Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


W  ly"'L\  Ao^Xd 


The  Arthur  and  Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

in  America 

RADCLIFFE  COLLEGE 


Gift  of  Karen  Slater 


\ 


THE 


COOK    AND    HOUSEWIFE'S 


MANUAL. 


r 


THE 


i 


COOK  AND   HOUSEWIFE'S 


MANUAL. 


A  PRACTICAL  SYSTEM  OF  MODERN  DOMESTIC  COOKERY 
AND  FAMILY  MANAGEMENT  ; 


CONTAINING   A    COMFBNDIUM    OP    FKXNCH    COOKXRY,    AND   OP    PASRIONABLK 

CONPKCnONARY,  FRKPARATION8  POR  INVAI.ID8  AND  CONVALBSCBNT8, 

A    SKLBCnON    OP    CHKAP    DISHK8,    AND    NUMBROOS    USBPl'L 

MI8CSI<LANSOU8  RCCKIFT8  IN  THN  VARIOUS  RRANCHR8 

OP  DOMBSTIC  ECONOMY. 


BY  MISTRESS  MARGARET  DODS, 

OP  THX  CLXIKUM  INK,  ftT.  KOKAN'S. 


TO  WBICB  rs  Ai>DBD 

t 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  TREATISE  ON  DOMESTIC  BREWING. 

CAREFULLY  RBVISED,  AJfW  GREATLY  KNLAROED. 


OLIVER     &     BOYD,     EDINBURGH. 
SIMPKIN,  MARSHALL,  &  Co.,  LONDON. 


MDCCCXLVII. 


Edinburgh :  Printed  by  William  Tatt,  107,  Prince's  Street. 


'(}>a  ^f  ^^sbi/v 


A 


A1WERTI8EMENT'  TQ  IH£  NEW  EDITION, 


Iv  tugam  making  our  roBpectful  acknowkdgmeKtB  to  Ubit 
poiblic,  «Bd  presenting  «  Nsw  Edition  of  the  Cook  and 
Housewife's  Manual,  professing  to  be  thoronglily  reyised, 
and  coDfiderably  enlarged,  with  the  view  of  inereasing  its 
ef8iy'*dajy  practieal  utility,  we  take  leave  to*  state  briefly 
in-  whiKt  ctepartments  improvement  haabeen  attemfited  :«- 

Eactending  more  or  less  threug^  every  sectiev  treating 

of!  Modtra  English,  or  more  correctly  of  ^ft^/b-JFVmeft 

Cookery— -^bai  reformed  and  enlarged  isgrstem  of  cnlkiaTy 

scMuoe  fix8t  promulgated  in  our  pi^s— the  improv«meiit8 

wb&A,  are  appaorent   in   all  depanrtmenffe,    are    chiefly 

conspiciioas,    not    in    simple    elementary  processes, — 

those:  efBritakr  being  in  general  unexceptionabfe, — but  kt- 

tbose^  cKshea  entitled  to^  be  called  dressed  or  made;  the 

mtriet  and  mOremiti  of  the  f^nch  kitchen.     In  this 

depastment  8ome>  new  seotione  hsive  been  added.    But  in 

1&6I  fashionable' iced  puddings  of  Careme,  or  the*  SaJMef 

voAHom  d^mamre^^ htscontemporavies,  we ha^ notover- 

h 


VI  ADYERTISEMENT. 

looked  the  improvements  made  in  the  far  more  important, 
plain  but  savoury,  everyday  family-dishes  of  unostenta- 
tious middle  life,  nor  been  less  attentive  to  the  progress 
made  in  the  various  branches  of  English  domestic  cookery. 

Our  original  system  was  not  exclusively  that  of 
England,  Scotland,  or  France  ;  but  an  attempt  to  exhibit, 
and  to  a  certain  extent  combine,  the  admitted  excellencies 
of  each  ;  in  the  belief  that  a  practical  system  superior  to 
any  one  of  them  might  be  formed  from  v^hat  was  best  in 
the  three  systems ;  or,  at  all  events,  that  familiar  acquain- 
tance with  French  cookery  might  prove  a  great  resource  to 
those  capable  of  modifying  and  adapting  their  knowledge 
to  the  uses  of  the  English  kitchen. 

Though  attention  and  observation  have  not  been  want- 
ing on  our  part,  we  must  again  confess  our  obligations  to 
the  judicious  hints  and  con*ections  of  practical  cooks,  and 
of  ladies  qualified  by  superior  intelligence  and  experience, 
to  enhance  the  value  of  any  work  of  this  sort,  whether  to 
the  young  housekeeper,  or  to  the  half -instructed  cook.  This 
information  relates  in  general  to  preparations  adopted  for 
some  time  in  the  kitchens  of  the  comfortable  or  affluent 
among  the  middle  classes,  which  have  not  yet  found  their 
way  into  hooks  of  recipes;  and  to  modes  of  Cookery 
adopted  from  France,  India,  and  other  quarters, — ^but 
generally  modified,  and,  aq  we  think,  improved  by  English 
tastes  and.  habits.  In  this  department  there  was  indeed 
some  danger  of  owrdoinff;  but  we  kept  in  view  the 
maxim,  **  that  too  many  cooks  spoil  the  broth,"  and  en- 


ADTSKHSSMBIIT.  Ytt 

deaToniod  to  hold  the  novel  in  strict  sabMrrknoe  to  tht 
mefdL 

The  mighty  reTolntion  effiwted  by  steam  has  alieady 
had  oonaideraUe  influence  on  Cookery ;  and  so  hare  the 
recent  changes  in  the  Tariffs.  Raie  apiceriesi  and  ftesh 
and  dried  firnits^  once  costly  Inxnriesi  may  now  be  ob- 
tained to  a  leasonable  extent  by  the  indnstrions  even  among 
the  working-classes.  It  is  pleasant  to  hear  of  them 
seasoning  their  gniel  and  rice  with  nutmeg  or  cassia,  bat 
it  wonld  be  still  more  delightful  that  their  messes  could 
be  enriched  and  sweetened  with  cheap  sugar ;  and  better 
still  to  see  the  prepared  meats  and  gelatines  of  distant  landi| 
as  plenteously  yielding  their  abundance  to  English  artisaaa 
as  we  now  see  oranges,  dates,  grapes,  cocoa  nuts,  and  pine- 
apples. Freed  Commerce  has  already  done  much,  but  far 
more  remains  to  be  accomplbhed ;  and  if  Providence  send 
the  meat,  we  should  hope  that  the  old  reproach  against  the 
cooks  will,  with  good  reason,  be  withdrawn. 

We  are  not,  however,  of  the  number  of  those  who 
pretend  to  make  a  cook  by  book.  This  assumption 
we  have  repeatedly  disclaimed,  as  may  be  seen  in  our 
900-801,  and  other  pages,  —  in  Mr.  Touchwood's 
Lectures,  and  many  parts  of  this  work.  But  we  do 
pretend  to  have  drawn  into  a  focus,  and  laid  before  the 
intelligent  cook,  who  has  learnt  the  A  B  C  of  her  art,  a 
body  of  knowledge  and  of  recipes,  such  as  she  will  not 
meet  with  in  many  more,  and  bulkier  works. 

As  this  is  not  the  rudiments,  or  First  Book  of  Cookery,  it 


Vlll  ADVgRTfSBHraWT. 

is  chiefly  to  intelligent  young  hoasekeepers  that  weoommend 
it,  as  a  directory  or  assistant  that  will  be  found  neither  dog^ 
matic  nor  dictaiotial ;  re<|uesting  them  to  bear  an  mind, 
that  though  we  generally  gire  our  diiecitionsiaii  less  asrbi- 
trary  form  than  most  of  our  predecessoss,  and  have  con* 
•descended  to  assign  a  reason  for  many  of  our  coihmands,  and 
to  explain  the  ratitmaie  of  our  presertptaons,  our  courteous 
readers  must  not  for  this  humility  of  toD«  imagine  them 
one  whit  l^s  aurtdioritatiTe,  They  may,  indeed,  at  aU 
times  walk  safely  hy  the  letter  of  our  presciiptions ; 
imt  they  will  fall  far  short  of  the  fall  advantage  intended, 
unless,  exercising  thdr  own  understanding,  and  applying 
^eir  increasing  experience,  they  learn  to  apprehend  the 
gpirit  in  the  letter,  and  in  every  circumstance,  as  it  may 
arise,  act  accordingly. 

it  was  to  conciliate  the  interesting  class  of  accomplished 
young  housekeepers,  and  win  their  attention  to  an  art  so 
closely  conilected  with  their  daily  duties,  that  many  of 
oar  literary  garvmhings  and  decorations  were  originally 
introduced.  Acting  upon  a  favourite  culinary  maxim  of 
our  own,  much  of  this  extraneous  ornament  has  been 
withdrawn,  to  make  way  for  more  solid  matter.  It 
would,  however,  be  altogether  erroneous  to  imagine,  that, 
in  making  an  irruption  from  head-quarters,  and  crossii^ 
the  Border,  preceded  by  a  flourish  of  marrow-bones  and 
cleavers,  we  might  not  have  a  message  to  deliver  as  earuest 
and  important  as  any  ever  conveyed  in  the  soberest  tones 
of  monotonous  dulness. 


ABVxmnBiaunir.  xx 

<So  much  for  ouneivet :  und  now  «  parting  wovd  of 
vaming  to  oar  leidfis.  We  wosld  dttpittf  upon  ihom, 
that  in  specifyiiig  many  «nitchiag  And  expensive  iiigi»- 
4bnt8y  deoorationB^  and  aauoca,  the  things  and  modea  in 
cwnBum  or  in  ikdiionable  use,  are  ahrajs  pointed  out»  but 
hj  no  means  always  recannneaded.  Bat  on  the  Mmr 
laand^as  works  of  this  kind  jue  nsnally  omsalted  <hi  ki/^ 
ck^s  and  hoUcU^Sy  or  upon  onforeseen  emergenc&es  aad 
occasions  when  sparing  would  be  parsimony  or  shabbiness, 
reoe^pts  for  the  preparation  of  fashionable  modem  dishes 
will  be  £>and  in  perhaps  more  than  soffident  Tariety* 

In  all  cdrcomstancesy  we  would  hint,  that  the  taste- 
ful economist,  thou^  of  affluent  means,  will  do 
well,  whether  she  have  a  housekeeper  or  not,  to  exer- 
cise her  own  discretion  in  drawing  out  or  examining 
her  bills  of  fare ;  and,  as  a  universal  rule,  the  omission 
of  costly  ingredients  is  recommended,  in  preference 
to  resorting  to  paltry  substitutes,  suggested  by  the  ill* 
regulated  desire  of  being  p&tOeeL  This  by  no  means 
excludes  good  taste  and  ingenuity  in  giving  eveiy  dish  or 
selection  of  dishes  the  best  relish  and  the  most  graceful 
form,  at  the  least  oost. 

To  those  who  use  this  work  as  a  Manual  of  Cookery, 
we  would  take  leave  to  recommend  the  Glossary  of 
Culinary  Terms,  which  is  enlarged  in  this  Edition  ;  the 
prefatory  remarks  to  the  Chapter  or  Section  containing  the 
particular  receipt  studied,  and  any  notes  and  obgervoHons 
connected  with  it.    For  instance,  every  separate  receipt 


X  ADYERTISEMfiNT. 

for  making,  boiling,  or  baking  a  pudding,  cannot  have  the 
entire  details  to  be  found  in  pp.  472-3-4,  but  these  once 
studied,  recurrence  to  them  in  every  receipt  for  making  a 
pudding,  would  superfluously  swell  the  work,  and  en- 
cumber it.  Acting  on  the  same  principle  of  high-presiure^ 
most  of  our  receipts  will  be  found  to  contain  two,  three, 
four,  or  more  subsidiary  receipts,  frequently  not  less  im- 
portant than  the  principal  one. 

In  conclusion,  it  is  earnestly  hoped  that  the  work,  in 
its  improved  state,  will  be  found  to  bear,  to  the  young  or 
inexperienced  housekeeper,  value  in  some  degree  com- 
mensurate to  the  great  labour  and  care  bestowed  upon  its 
original  compilation  and  subsequent  revision. 


JuRRATA* 

Ptige  637)  for  Gotland,  read  Goulard, 

Page  422)  No.  719^  for  Boaches,  read  Bow^iiet* 

Page  406,  first  line,  for  Petit,  read  PetUt. 


CONTENTS. 


PART  I. 

History  of  tlie  Iiutitation  of  the  deiknm  or  St.  Boiuui*fe 

Culiiuffy  Clab, 17 

Intredaetoiy  Leetore,        .....  36 

Sjllabiu  of  Gnlinaiy  Lectures,            •           ...  39 

I^wctions  for  Carvinff ,  wilii  new  Cats,     ...  47 
Bills  of  Fare,  and  Obsenrations  on  laying  oat  Tables  and 

amnging  Dinners,        •           ....  60 

Company  Suppers,              .....  80 

jyijmnersdlaFourckette,       .....  81 


PARTH. 

ELEMENTARY  PROCESSES  IN  COOKERY. 

Chap.  I.  Boiling  and  Steaming,                ...  84 

II.  To  bofl  a  Round  of  Beef,  &c,          .            .  88 

III.  Roasting  and  Baking;     ....  100 

IV.  Broiling, 129 

V.  Flying, 136 

YI.  Brotiis,  Soups,  and  Gbavies,             .            .  I44 

Stew  or  Mouthful  Soups,           .            .            .  164 

Fish  Soups,  .....  178 

TIL  Fish,  and  Fish-nies,        ....  185 

YIIL  Vegetables  and  Roots,           ...  227 

IX.  Sauces,  Essences,  Pickles,  Catsups,  Vinegars^ 

Herb-wines,  Mustaids,  and  other  Condiments,  255 


PART  m. 

Chap.  I.  HadbDishbs,      .... 

of  Beef, 
of  Veal, 
of  Mutton, 
of  Lamb, 

of  Venison,  Hare  and  Rabbits, 
of  Poultiy  and  Gbme, 
Cniries, 
Sausages, 
Devils, 
Cheese, 

Eggs, 
Chap.  II.  Frbnch  Cookvht, 
Sauces,  » 


Sou 


ElOUpS, 

Made-] 


e-Dishes, 


301 
305 
321 
334 
340 
343 
347 
354 
359 
360 
362 
366 
371 
377 
383 
387 


Xll,  CX>NTBNT6. 

PAg6 

Chap.II.  Dishes  of  Fish,         .....  406 

Forcemeats,        .  .  .  .  411 

Dishes  of  Vegetahles,  Fmit,'  &c,     .  .  .  414 

Pastry,  &c.,        .  .  '.  .  .  419 

Chap.  III.  Nationiil  Dishes — Scottish,  Irish,  Welsh,  GHarman, 

Spanish,  and  Oriental,  .  .  .  424 

IV.  Pastry,  Pies,  Patties,  Puffs,  Puddings,  Pancakes, 

Fritters,  and  Dumplings,        .  .  .  449 

Y.  Creams,  Jellies,  Blancmajiges,  Trifles,  Cttstuds, 
Cheese-cakes,  Souffits^  Rice-dishes,  Sweetmeata^ 
Preserves,  Drops,  Cakes,  Bouseheld  Breads  4S8 

PART  IV. 

Chap.      I.  Liqueurs,  Cordials^-  Punch>   Branch,  Possfltb, 

Made  Wines,  and  Household-  Beers,  .  548" 

Tahle  of  the  Average  Time  required  for  Bbilii^, 

Boasting,  Frying,  &c.       .            .            .  570 
Notices  of  the  ProvisiiOQS  in]  Season  in  the  diffe- 
rent months  of  the  year,         .            .            .  573 
GHfitssaryof  CuUnaiy'Twmsi            .           ..  576 
II.  Preparations  for  the  Sick,  and  iojf  Convalescents,  580 
Of  Coffee,  Chocolate,  &&  hest  mode  of  makings  587 
Preparations  for  the  Dressuag'-room,        •            .  595 
Cheap  Dishes,  and  Cookery  fbrthe^  Poor,     .  598 
III.  Of  Salting  Meat,  Tongues,  Hams,  Making  Cheese, 

Preserving  Butter,  Eggs,  Fattening  Poultry,  &c.  605 
IV.  Useful  Miscellaneous  Receipts  for  Cleaning-  and 

Preserving  Furniture,  Clothes,  &c.  .  629 


AI*EENDIX.— DOMESTIC  BREWB^G. 

IMPLEMENTS  NECE8SART  FOR  DOMESTIC  BREWING. 

The  Boiler  — The  Mash-tuh -- The  Mashing-stick,  or  Oar— 
The  Underhack — Coolers — Fermenting  Tuns  —  The 
Saccharometer  and  Thermometer,  &c.  .  .  939 

MUt,  Sufar,  Water,  &c.  ....  642 

I.  To  Brew  from  Six  Bushels  of  Malt^  a  Half-hogshead  of 
Strong  Ale,  a  HaIf-hofi[shead  of  Middle  Ale,  and  a 
Quarter-hogshead  of  Tahle-heerj        .  .  .  645 

\L  To  Brew  from  Six  Bushels  of  Mall;  (without  Sugar)  a 

Barrel  (36  gallons)  of  Al»  and  a  Barrel  of  Tahle-heer,  650 

UL  To  Brew  from  Four  Bushels  of  Malt  one  Kilderkin  (9 
dozen)  of  Strong  Ale,  and  one>  B&rrd  (18  dozen)  of 
Tahle-heer,  using  Sugar  along  with  the  Malt,     .  652 

IV,  To  Brew  from  Four  Bushels  of  Malt^  with  or  without 
Sugar,  a  Half-hogshead  (14  dozen)  of  "Strong  Ale,  and 
a  Kilderkin  (9  dozen)  of  Tahle-heer,  .  .  654 

Y:»  To  Brew  from  Two  Bushels  of  Malt  a  Quartep-hoBB^ead 
of  Strong  Ale  (7  dozen)  and  aQuarter-hogsheadTable^ 
beer,  .....  655 


INSTITUTION  OF  THE  ST.  RONAN'S  CULINARY  CLUB. 


After  the  accomplishment^of  those  passages  which  are 
recorded  at  large  in  that  entertaining  and  highly  popular 
history,  entitled  "  St.  Ronan's  Wbll,"  Peregrine  Touch- 
wood, Esquire,  more  commonly^  styled  the  Cleikum 
Nabob,  who  had  been  deeply  concerned  in  these  disastrous 
events,  was  sorely  pricked  in  mind ;  and,  after  a  time, 
became'afi^icted  with  melancholy  languor,  so  that  his  ap- 
petite failed,  time  hung  heavily  on  his  hands,  and  he 
knew  not  whereunto  to  betake  himself.  This  worthy 
gentleman  was,  it  may  be  remembered,  of  a  stirring,  active 
temper ;  prompt,  nimble,  and  prying  in  spirit ;  somewhat 
dogmatic  and  opinionative  withal ;  and  fond  of  having  a 
finger  in  every  Pte,  though  it  was  alleged  that  he  some- 
times scalded  his  lips  with  other  people's  Broth, 

The  unhappy  catastrophe  which  befell  the  ancient  and 
honourable  house  of  St.  Ronan's  occurred  about  the  fall  of 
the  year ;  and  by  the  end  of  the  following  March,  Mr. 
Touchwood,  having  carried  reform  as  far  as  was  possible 
in  and  about  the  hamlet  of  Auldtown,  was  in  some  danger, 
as  we  have  distantly  intimated,  of  falling  into  h3rpochon- 
dria,  or  what  the  learned  Dr.  Cackleben  called  "  fever  on 
the  spirits,"  vulgeiTly  Jid^ets, — a  malady  to  which  bachelor 
gentlemen  in  easy  circumstances,  when  turned  of  fifty,  are 
thought  to  be  peculiarly  liable.  It  so  happened,  how- 
ever, that  one  of  those  fortunate  occurrences  which  oftenest 


1  8  INSTITUTION  OF  THE 

befall  when  least  looked  for,  wrought  the  deliverance  of 
the  Nabob  from  the  power  of  ennui  or  hypochondria,  and 
restored  him  to  himself*  In  brief,  he  exorcised  the  bltie 
devils  which  began  to  torment  him,  by  an  attempt  to  teach 
his  fair  countrywomen  the  mystetyof  preparing  culinary 
devils  of  all  names  and  kinds ;  besides  soups^  ragouts^ 
sauceSy  and  the  whole  eirele  of  the  arts  of  domestic  eco- 
nomy,— an  entirely  new  system,  in  short,  of  Rational 
Practical  Cookery, 

An  idea  of  this  kind  had,  among  many  others,  been  for 
some  time  floating  in  the  brain  of  the  Nabob,  which  was 
rather  fertile  in  projects  ;  but  itr  would  probably  never 
have  gone  farther  than  the  tongue,  save  for  one  of  those 
fortuitous  combinations  of  events  which  sometimes  pro- 
duce the  mightiest  consequences,  and  which  about  this 
time  sent  to  St.  Ronan  s  a  personage  of  no  less  weight  than 
the  celebrated  Dr.  Redgill.  The  Doctor  had  for  some 
months  been  what  his  physician  called  ^*  an  incipient  in- 
valid." Hia  powers  of  digestion,  though  still  respectable, 
were  of  late  rather  declining ;  but  his  appetite,  *'  he  thanked 
God!"  was  vigorous  as  ever,  his  taste  more  refined,  and 
his  knowledge  matured  and  extended  in  every  branch  of 
the  science.  He  had  been  trying  the  Cheltenham  waters 
in  the  previous  season ;  and  was  now  recommended  by  a 
Scotch  physician,  who  had  been  singularly  happy  in  the 

case  of  his  friend.  Alderman  ,  to  try  the  St. 

Ronan's  Spa,  the  virtues  of  which  were  just  then  coming 
into  fashionable  repute. 

Like  the  bulk  of  mankind,  attracted  by  the  glitter  of 
appearance.  Dr.  Redgill,  on  his  arrival,  had  established 
himself  at  the  New  Hotel,  just  set  up  in  opposition  to  the 
hostelrie  of  Mistress  Margaret  Dods.  But  here  he  soon 
became  discontented  with  the  accommodation,  attendance,  g 


I 


ST.  ronan's  cuukabt  club.  19- 

« 

but,  above  all,  the  cookery ;  and  learning  that  a  wealthy 
old  East  Indian— a  sort  oi  humorist,  who  lindentood  and 
loved  good  cheer — had  fixed  his  head-quarteis  ia  a  quiet, 
comfortable,  well-ovdered,  old-fashioned  inn,  where  excel- 
lent small  dinners  were  served,  the  Doctor  ordered  his  low- 
hung,  well-cushioned  chariot,  and  on  the  second  momiiig 
of  his  residence  at  St.  Ronan's  Well,  set  out  to  reconnoitre 
the  capabilities  of  this  land  of  promise. 

The  Nabob,  unshaved,  half-dressed,  blue  and  yellow, 
fallen  off  in  fiesh,  and  given  up  to  melancholious  fancies 
about  bilious  attacks  and  the  faU  of  stocks,  the  vanity  of 
riches^  and  the  moral  impossibility  of  Scotch  cooks  ever 
boiling  rice  properly,  was,  when  the  Doctor  drove  in  sight, 
lounging  at  his  parlour  window,  directing  the  old  gray 
ostler  in  currying  the  old  gray  horse ;  but  with  littie  of 
his  former  spirit  and  promptitude.  It  was  a  critical  con- 
junction. The  eyes  of  the  three  persona, — the  Doctor, 
the  Nabob,  and  the  Ostler, — were  instantly  attracted  to 
a  spectacle  in  which  all  mankind  take  more  or  less  in- 
terest,— a  pair  of  Mistress  Dods'  game-codes,  that  had 
lustily  commenced  a  sparring-match.  The  Ostler  staid  his 
currycoBdb  and  its  hissing  accompaniment,  and  clapped 
his  hands  to  cheer  the  combatants ;  the  Nabob  flung  up 
the  sash ;  and  the  Doctor  drew  up  to  contemplate  the 
conflict.  The  feathered  combatants  fought  it  out  gal- 
lantly, —  each,  no  doubt,  animated  by  the  knightly 
consciousness  that  ^  his  lady  saw  him,"  till  one  dropped 
dead,  and  the  other  staggered  over. — "  Well  done,  Charlie  1 
—  bravely  fought,  Charlie!"  cried  the  Ostler,  lifting  up 
the  survivor. 

"  Admirable  cock-a-leekie,"  said  the  Doctor,  touching 
the  deceased  with  the  end  of  his  whip ;  "  all  the  better 
for  the  fight ;  it  would  raise  the  creature's  blood. — ^A  fine 


20  INSTTTUnON  Ot  THE 

brood  that ! "  addressing  the  Ostler,  and  throwing  eyes  of 
love  on  a  set  of  ducklings,  just  escaped  from  the  shell,  that 
were  innocently  disporting  themselves  in  a  little  puddle, 
near  some  goodly  rows  of  green  pease  in  a  more  advanced 
state  of  vegetation  than  any  the  Doctor  had  seen  since  he 
had  crossed  the  Border ;  "  these  ducklings  will,  however, 
be  too  old  before  the  pease  are  ready.  Strange  stupidity 
not  to  have  'em  come  together ! "  * — At  this  instant  the 
soft  treble  squeak  of  a  pig  of  tender  days,  and  then  the 
squall  of  a  full  choir,  a  whole  litter  of  pigs, — Chinese  pigs, 
the  Doctor  knew  by  the  Orientalism  of  the  infant  grunt, 
— struck  his  ear ;  and,  starting  like  an  old  battle-horse  at 
the  sound  of  the  trumpet,  he  alighted,  (the  Ostler  in- 
stinctively seizing  the  reins,)  and  unheeding  the  proffered 
courtesy  of  the  Nabob,  who  requested  him  to  walk  in, 
pushed  forwards. — "  Whereabouts,  good  woman !  where- 
abouts is  the  piggery?  How  many  days  are  they  littered?" 
— ^^  Gude  woman,  ill  woman,"  replied  Mistress  Dods, — 
for  it  was  Meg  herself,  who,  with  a  pailful  of  slops,  was 
sallying  towards  the  delicate  objects  of  the  Doctor's  solici- 
tude, under  which  office  she  disguised  the  latent  purpose 
of  taking  a  nearer  view  of  the  new  arrival  at  the  Spa, — 
**  Gude  woman,  iU  woman,  it  can  make  little  odds  to  you, 
for  they  are  no  for  your  market ;"  and  Meg  pushed  on, 


te 


In  maiden  meditation  fancy  free." 


The  Doctor,  not  yet  wholly  discomfited,  followed  with 
grave  and  ponderous,  though  eager  steps.  The  appear- 
ance of  the   Hebe  who   daily  ministered  to  their  little 

*  We  never,  for  our  own  private  eating,  could  yet  find  much  to 
admire  in  the  ekin-and-bone  ducks  of  June  and  July. — P.  T. 

N.B. — The  great  Ude,  and  the  rising  Soter,  will  say  the  same 
thing.    On  his  showing,  the  Reform  Club  should  look  to  it. 


ST.  ronan's  culinart  club.  21 

wants,  called  forth  a  full  choras  of  grunters,  swelling  the 
triple  thrice-confounded  din ;  and  the  matron  of  the  sty, 
a  full-grown  porker,  bursting  the  verge  of  the  sanctuary, 
ran  full  tilt  against  the  Doctor,  and  getting  between 
his  legs,  caused  him  to  perform  a  somerset,  which  made 
him  free  of  the  house  ere  Meg  had  time  to  bless  herself.-— 
*'  Help  1  hilloa,  here,  good  woman !"  exclaimed  the  Doctor, 
as  the  enraged  matron  of  the  sty,  filled  with  maternal 
alarms,  began  to  discover  her  tusks. 

"  Ye'll  ken  the  way  back  to  my  pig-sty  now,  it's  like," 
said  Meg,  with  a  grim  smile ;  and,  as  a  measure  of  de- 
fence, she  heaved  the  whole  contents  of  her  brimming  pail 
on  the  sow,  thus  allowing  a  rather  copious  libation  to  the 
Doctor;  shouting — "Help  here,  Jerry  Ostler!  Lord  sake, 
help  here !  this  battle  atween  the  Scots  and  English  b 
waur  than  Bannockbum.  Is't  you,  Mr.  Touchwood!  This 
is  a  worse  job  than  Saunders  Jaup's  jaw-hole  yet ;  the  fat 
English  minister,  frae  St.  Ronan's  Well,  is  smooring  a' 
my  wee  grices." 

"  Your  grices  will  smother  him,  you  mean,  dame,"  said 
Touchwood.  "  Here,  sir ;  ay,  there  you  are  on  end  again. 
This  way,  — follow  me.  You  shall  have  your  revenge 
though.    They  bemire  you ;  you  shall  crunsh  their  bones.** 

Reeking  and  panting  from  the  struggle.  Dr.  Redgill, 
more  provoked  by  the  fancied  insolence  of  the  landlady, 
and  the  ill-timed  mirth  of  the  Nabob,  than  by  the  assault 
of  the  Felon  Sow,  growled  forth  something  that,  were 
such  enormity  possible,  sounded  very  like  wishing  the 
whole  party  in  that  place  from  which  it  was  his  duty  as  a 
clergyman  to  keep  them. 

"  Neither  my  swine  nor  my  guests  boded  themselves  on 
you,"  said  Meg  sharply.  "  Them  that  come  unsent  for, 
sit  unserved.     But  that  cannot  be  said  of  you ;  ye  co»- 


22  INSTITUTION  OF  THB 

trived  to  get  far  ben  on  short  notice.     If  folks  will  scrape 
acquaintance—" 

"  A  wraping  acquaintance  indeed  ! "  interrupted  Touch- 
wood. "  Here,  Jerry  Ostler,  —  your  currycombs  here ! 
Soap,  water,  towels!  Uncase,  Doctor.  Faith,  as  you 
say,  dame,  a  worse  job  than  Saunders  Jaup's  jaw-hole 
yet." 

The  grumbling  Doctor,  wise  enough  to  make  a  virtue 
of  necessity,  rallied  his  naturally  good  temper;  for  we 
hold  that  all  gourmands  wre  good-natured,  except,  perhaps, 
about  meal-times ;  though  it  may  be,  as  Lord  Shaftesbury 
says  of  other  good-natured  persons,  "  because  they  care  for 
nobody  but  themselves  ;  and  as  nothing  annoys  them  but 
what  affects  their  own  interest,  they  never  irritate  them- 
aelves  about  what  does  not  concern  them,  and  so  seem  to 
be  made  of  the  very  milk  of  human  kindness."  —  Such 
wiaa  Dr.  Bedgill.  His  rubicund  countenance,  soft  and 
iwelling  as  a  jelly,  generally  beamed  easy  good-nature  ; 
his  ample  chest  —  call  it  not  paunch  —  seemed  a  reservoir 
of  the  very  gravy  oi  human  kindness  ;  his  full,  oleaginous 
lips  curved  over  like  the  ledges  of  an  overflowing  sauce- 
tureen.  Having  cast  his  slough,  and  got  puriiied  from  the 
defilements  of  the  sty,  arrayed  his  outward  man  in  a 
scanty  suit  of  brown  tendered  by  the  Nabob,  and  fortified 
the  inner  with  the  full  of  one  of  Meg's  long-stalked, 
enamelled  antique  glasses  of  Touchwood's  Cura^oa,  the 
Doctor  was  so  far  mollified  as  to  add  to  a  grateful  eulogy 
on  the  qualities  of  the  liqueur  an  acknowledgment  of  the 
attention  of  the  administrator, 

"  Never  mind  it,  man,"  said  the  easy  Nabob ;  "  I  at 
least  am  indebted  to  the  delinquent  sow;  she  abridges 
ceremony  and  idle  introductions.  You  must  take  a 
bachelor's  dinner  with  me  to-day.    No  refusal  positively. 


ST.  AONAN  S  CULINABT  CLUB.  28 

A  glass  of  Meg's  good  wine  must  make  amends  for  short 
commons.  •  •  •  .  I  vow  this  brush  has  done  me  good.*' 

Notliing  was  farther  from  the  real  intention  of  Dr. 
Redgill  than  to  refuse  an  invitation,  which  the  savoury 
steams  now  issuing  from  Meg's  kitchen  —  steams  that 
might  have  created  a  ttomaeh  under  the  ribs  of  death, 
rendered  irresistibly  seductive.  With  a  decent  show  of 
hesitation,  he  yielded ;  and,  snuffing  up  the  incense-breath- 
ing vapours  which  ascended  the  stair,  followed  the  Nabob 
to  a  private  parlour,  where  an  old,  rich  china  basin,  filled 
with  the  balmy  and  ambrosial  fluid,  scented  from  afar,  was 
twice  replenished  for  his  solace  ;  first,  however,  improved 
by  a  pin's  point  of  crystals  of  Cayenne  from  his  silver 
pocket-case  of  essence-vials,  which  had  luckily  escaped  the 
taint  of  the  Bty. 

^^  Excellent  hare-soup  ^-'ver^  ezceileiU  indeed  I  pro- 
nounce it,  Mr.  Touchwood.  All  the  blood  preserved— 7 
the  consistenoe  —  the  concoction  complete  -^  the  seasoning 
admirable.  Sir,  I  abhor  the  injustice  of  withh(^ding  from 
the  poor  cook  the  praise  that  is  her  due.  It  is  bad  policy, 
Mr.  Touchwood.  This  hare-soup,  I  say  it  again,  is  ad- 
mirable ;  and  soup,  to  ray  thioking,  though  a  Scottish 
mode,  the  very  best  way  of  dressing  a  hare.  Sir,  you  are 
in  snug  quurters  here.  A  sensible,  discreet  person,  your 
hostess,  though  a  little  gruff  at  the  first  brush.  Sir,  all 
good  cooks  are  so.  They  know  their  own  value  :  they  are 
a  privileged  class :  they  toil  in  a  fiery  element :  they  lie 
under  a  heavy  responsibility.  But,  perhaps,  after  all,  you 
travel  with  your  own  cook  ?  many  gentlemen  who  have 
travdied  do." 

**  No  such  thing,"  returned  Touchwood,  lightly ;  "  never 

less  alone  than  when  alone  in  affairs  of  the  stomach.     I 

^may  have  written  out  a  few  items  for  my  old  dame  here. 


24  INSTITUTION  OF  THS 

and  for  the  first  three  months,  taken  a  peep  occasionally 
into  the  kitchen  and  larder ;  hut  now  matters  go  on  as 
smoothly  as  well-oiled  hutter." 

**  Sir,  you  write  receipts,  then!"  cried  the  Doctor,  look- 
ing on  his  hospitahle  entertainer  with  augmented  respect, 
—  **  perhaps  for  this  very  soup  ;  —  and  peih&ps  —  but 
that  would  be  too  great  a  kindness  to  request  on  such 
short  acquaintance — though  hare-soup,  sir,  I  will 
candidly  own  it,  is  only  understood  in  Scotland.  Sir,  I 
am  above  National  prejudices ;  and,  I  must  say,  I  yield 
the  Scots  the  superiority  in  all  soups  —  save  turtle,  ox- 
tail, and  mullagatawny.  An  antiquarian  friend  of  mine 
attributes  this  to  their  early  and  long  connexion  with  the 
French,  —  a  nation  pre-eminent  in  soups." 

"  No  doubt  of  it,  Doctor,"  replied  the  Nabob  ;  "  but  you 
ehalt  have  this  receipt,  ay  and  twenty  more  receipts.  To 
this  ancient  hostel  now — you  will  scarce  believe  it— 
have  been  confined  scores  of  admirable  receipts  in  cookery,  ] 

ever  since  the  jolly  friars  flourished  down  in  the  Monas- 
tery yonder : 

'  The  Monks  of  Melrose  made  fat  kail 
On  Fridays,  when  they  fasted.' 

You  remember  the  old  stave.  Doctor?" 

The  Doctor  remembered  no  such  thing.  His  attention 
was  given  to  more  substantial  doctrine.  '*  Sir,"  said  he, 
^^  I  should  not  be  surprised  if  they  possessed  the  original 
receipt  —  a  local  one  too  I  am  told  —  for  dressing  the  red 
trout,  in 'this  hereditary  house  of  entertainment." 

"  Never  doubt  it  man,  —  claret,  butter,  and  spiceries.  — 

Zounds,  I  have  eat  of  it  till It  makes  my  mouth 

water  yet.  As  the  French  adage  goes, — *  Give  your  trout 
a  bottle  of  good  wine,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  spice,  and 
tell  me  how  you  like  him.'  —  Excellent  trout  in  this  very  1 


i; 


8T.  RONAN's  culinary  CLUB.  25 

lioase — got  in  the  ^  Friars  Cast^  man — the  best  reach  of 
the  Tweed.  Let  them  alone  for  that.  Those  jolly  Monks 
knew  something  of  the  mystery.  Their  warm,  sunny  old 
orchards  still  produce  the  finest  fruit  in  the  country.  You 
English  gentlemen  never  saw  the  Grey>Gudewife  pear? 
Look  out  here,  sir.  The  Abbot's  Hauoh  yonder  —  the 
richest  carse  land  and  fattest  beeves  in  the  country. 
Their  very  names  —  tho^e  Monks — are  genial,  and  smack 
of  milk  and  honey  !  —  But  here  comes  a  brother  of  the 
Befoimed  order,  whom  I  have  never  yet  been  able  to  teach 
the  difference  between  Bechamel  and  butter-milk,  though 
he  understands  ten  languages.  Dr.  RedgiU, — give  me 
leave  to  present  to  you,  my  friend,  Mr.  Joeiah  Cargill,  the 
minister  of  this  parish.  Mr.  Cargill,  I  have  been  telling 
my  friend  that  the  Reformation  has  thrown  the  science  of 
cookery  three  centuries  back  in  this  comer  of  the  island. 
Popery  and  made-dishes,  eh,  Mr.  Cargill?  —  Episcopacy, 
roast-beef,  and  plum-pudding, — and  what  is  left  to 
meagre  Presbytery,  but  its  lang-kail,  its  brose,  and  mash- 
lum  bannocks?" 

"  So  I  have  heard,"  replied  Mr.  Cargill ;  "  very  whole- 
some food,  indeed." 

"Wholesome  food,  sir!  Why,  your  wits  are  wool- 
gathering. There  is  not  a  barefoot  monk,  sir,  of  the  most 
beggarly  abstemious  order,  but  can  give  you  some  pretty 
notions  for  tossing  up  a  fricassee  or  an  omelet,  or  of  mixing 
an  olio.  Scotland  has  absolutely  retrograded  in  gastro- 
nomy ;  yet  she  saw  a  better  day,  the  memory  of  which  is 
savoury  in  our  nostrils  yet.  Doctor.  In  old  Jacobite  fami- 
lies, and  in  tlie  neighbourhood  of  decayed  monasteries, — 
in  such  houses  as  this,  for  instance,  where  long  succeeding 
generations  have  followed  the  trade  of  victuallers,  —  a  few 
relics  may  still  be  found.     It  is  for  this  reason  I  fix  my 


26  INSTITUTION  OF  THE 

scene  of  experiment  at  the  Cleikum,  and  choose  my 
notable  hostess  as  high  priestess  of  the  mysteries.  But 
here  comes  Mr.  Winterblossom, — No  word  of  Jekyl? 
Never  mind.  —  Serve  dinner  there.  I  allow  five  minutes 
for  differmce  of  time-pieces,  and  wait  a  half-minute  more 
for  my  tardy  guest  —  no  man  shall  call  me  uncivil  —  and 
then  proceed  to  the  main  business  of  the  day,  —  eh.  Doc- 
tor ?  —  were  King  Creorge  expected." 

"Sir,"  said  the  Doctor,  earnestly,  "I  venerate  your 
opinions  and  your  practice  in  this  matter.  Sir,  our  great 
English  moralist,  Dr.  Johnson,  though  a  fellow  of  no  col- 
lege, yet  no  mean,authority,  says,  —  ^The  man  that  does 
not  mind  his  stomach  is  a  fool :  the  belly  is  every  man's 
master.*  —  Sir,  I  have  known  young  gentlemen,  otherwise 
of  unexceptionable  morals,  disgrace  themselves,  — > —  sir,  I 
say  disgrace  themselves,  and  lose  the  friendship  of  those 
who  were  inclined  to  serve  them  and  to  promote  their 
views  in  life,  by  this  infamous  practice  of  delaying  dinner ; 
a  practice  which  the  elegant  and  classic  Addison  truly 
calls  a  species  of  perjury.  Sir,  he  brands  it  as  *  the  detest- 
able  haXAi  of  keeping  your  friends  waiting  dinner.' -^^  If 
such  persons  did  think  at  all,*  says  he,  '  they  would  reflect 
on  their  guilt  in  lengthening  the  suspension  of  agreeable 
life,' — that  is,  in  lengthening  the  hanging-on,  miserable 
half-hour  before  dinner." 

This  dinner  was  served  punctual  to  the  second ;  for  Meg 
and  the  Nabob,  though  they  did  not  quite  agree  in  har- 
mony, always  agreed  in  iii$ne :  —  a  true  gourmand  dinner  ; 
—  DO  sumptuous  feast  of  twenty  dishes  in  the  dead-thraw, 
but  a  few  well-chosen  and  well-suited, — each  relieving 
each, — the  boils  done  to  &  popple,  the  roast  to  a  Utmy  — 
the  stews  to  the  nick  of  time.  First  came  the  soup'— the  hare- 
soup  ;  Meg  called  it  "  rabbit-soup,"  as  this  was  close-time. 


ST.  SONANTS  CULINABT  CLUB^  27 


« 


Sir,  if  y<m  pleafle,"  replied  the  Doetor,  bowing  to  the 
tureea,  ftnd  mpping  his  hisated  Madfiira,  as  he  answered 
the  inquiry  o£  the  Nabob,  if  he  would  take  soup,  -*  *'  as 
oar  great  moralist^  Dr,  Johnson,  said  of  your  Scotch  barley- 
broth,  -^  <  ^r,  I  have  eat  of  it,  and  shall  be  happy  to  do 
«o  agdn.'" 

Stewed  red  trout^  for  which  ihe  house  was  celebrated,  *-- 
a  fat,  juicy,  short-legged,  thick-ramped,  rery  white  pullet, 
braised  and  senred  witii  rice  and  mushroom  sauce, --— a 
Scotch  dish  of  renison-coIlQps,  —  and,  though  last,  not 
least  in  tlM  Doctor  s  good  lore,  one  of  the  young  pigs, 
killed  since  his  adventure  in  the  sty:  -^ these  formed  the 
dinner.  And  all  were  neatly  dished,  — »each  dish  with  its 
appropriate  sauces  and  garnishings,  -—  the  whole  in  keeping 
that  would  have  done  honour  to  the  best  city-taTern  in 
London.  —  "  Sir,  I  say  city-tayern,"  said  Redgill ;  «  for  I 
femnbly  conceive  that,  in  all  save  flimsy  show,  business  is 
best  understood  in  the  city,  however  finely  they  may  talk 
the  matter  in  the  grand  Clubs,  and  at  the  West  Knd." 

Such  a  dinner  desCTved  a  grace.  It  was,  indeed,  part 
of  the  jUfBiftil^indispensable.  The  Dootoir's  was  short 
and  pithy,  delivered  in  a  rolling,  sonorous  voice,  pitched 
to  fill  tiie  dining-hall  of  a  college  ;  and  then  the  seats 
weire  occupied  without  farther  ceromony  ;  for  though  it 
be  true  that  at  large  dinners  ^^  the  post  of  profit  is  a  pri- 
vate station,"  there  was  here  little  to  alarm.  Stewed 
trout  had  ceased  to  be  luxury  to  Winterblossom  or  the 
Nabob ;  and  they  both  knew  that  though  Jekyl  would 
stand  out  with  the  most  high-bred  politeness,  like  a  very 
gamester,  c^  a  Hotspur,  for  his  full  share  of  the  ^smison- 
fat^  irwmed  outside  of  teal^  belfy-slice  cf  salnum^  neck- 
jelfy  cf  eotPs-hecidy  Pope's-e^e^  crackling^  due  proportion 
of  Hujfingy  and   all    those   epicurean    delicacies    which 


28  INSTITUTION  OV  THIS 

gentlemen  politely  urge  on  each  other  when  resolved  to 
obtain  the  dainty morself or  themselves.  They  also  knew,  as 
we  have  said,  that  they  could  do  Mr.  Cargill  with  perfect 
ease  ;  and  he  was  the  only  other  guest  present. 

Dr.  Redgill,  with  cranberry-tart  and  a  copious  libation 
of  rich  plain  cream,  was  concluding  one  of  the  most  satis- 
factory dinners  he  had  ever  made  in  his  life,  though  called 
a  chance-dinner — he  in  general  detested  chance-dinners 
— when  Mr.  Jekyl,  in  his  fishing-jacket  and  wet  shoes, 
lounged  into  the  room.  Certain  reasons  made  an  absence 
from  the  metropolis  convenient  to  the  young  gentleman 
«kt  this  time.  He  was  therefore  still  at  St.  Ronan's,  and 
was  become  rather  intimate  with  the  Nabob,  who,  like 
Sir  Peter  Teazle  with  his  young  friends,  never  grudged 
him  his  good  advice. 

The  young  gentleman  bore  the  rebuke,  which  his  want 
of  punctuality  drew  upon  him,  with  entire  nonchalancCy 
surveyed  the  board  with  an  air  of  half-supercilious  scru- 
tiny, and  then  ordered  the  female  waiter  to  carry  his  com- 
pliments to  Mistress  Dods,  and  say  that  Mr.  Touchwood 
would  be  particularly  obliged  by  the  re-appearance  of 
the  excellent  roast-beef  he  had  had  yesterday,  and  a  few 
slices  of  cold  ca/rrot.  The  Nabob  and  the  facetious  Win- 
terblossom,  who,  it  may  be  remembered,  was  the  most 
pleasant  companion  in  the  world,  albeit  he  did  not  value 
at*  a  pin's  point  any  creature  on  its  surface,  were  well  ac- 
customed to  these  high  flings  in  the  young  man,  and  gave 
themselves  no  manner  of  concern  ;  but  Dr.  Redgill,  who 
was  really,  as  we  have  said,  a  good-natured  man,  and  who 
•"-after  dinner — ^had  bowels  even  for  an  unpunctual  flsher, 
took  compassion  on  the  gentleman-like  young  officer,  and 
recommended  the  braised  fowl,  "  hot  yet,  hardly  touch- 
ed,"— the  pig  the  Doctor  kept  as  a  special  preserve.     It 


ST.  ronan's  culinary  club.  29 

voiild  be  admirable  to-morrow,  re-dressed  au  Bechamel, 
The  young  man'  was  politely  grateful,  but  invincible. 
Most  elaborately  did  he  mix  up  a  relish,  compounded  of 
made-mustard,  eschalot-vinegar,  catsup,  and  horseradish, 
for  his  cold  regale  ;  and  plateful  after  plateful  was  swal- 
lowed, the  Doctor  looking  on  in  silent  admiration,  not 
unmixed  with  envy,  and  resolving  at  supper  to  try  this 
inviting  beef,  idnce,  unfortunately,  a  man  that  lunches 
.  cannot  comfortably  eat  two  dinners  in  the  same  day. 
The  toper  certainly  has  here  advantage  of  the  gourmand. 
And  now  the  clash  of  plates  had  ceased,  the  ringing  of 
tumblers  was  no  more ;  and  as  next  in  degree  to  the  eat- 
ing of  a  good  dinner —  the  digesting  is  a  different  thing 
—  comes  the  pleasure  of  talking  of  it,  the  meHts  of  the 
several  dishes  were  discussed  at  large.  Wlnterblossom 
suggested  **  a  very  little  more  currant-jelly  to  the  veni- 
son-sauce;" and  the  Doctor  hinted  that,  '^had  the  mus^ 
tard  been  mixed  one  half-hour  earlier,  the  amalgamation 
would  have  been  complete  : — but  JreshnesSy  after  all, 
was  the  good  extreme  ;  it  was  very  well."  Both  were  deep 
in  the  stewed  trout,  when  Jekyl,  his  solitary  meal  finished, 
took  the  lead  with  his  wonted  easy,  well-bred  assurance  ; 
and  expatiated  so  knowingly  on  the  mysteries  of  the  French 
kitchen,  unfolding  the  intricate  combinations  of  the  most 
complicated  ragouts,  " familiar  as  his  garter,"  talking^ so 
learnedly  of  unique'  flavours,  of  braises,  daubes,  mate-^ 
lotes,  &c.  the  compositions  of  sauces,  their  inventors,  and 
the  names  of  Parisian  restaurateurs  of  celebrity,  damning 
this  one  and  applauding  the  other,  and  quoting  the 
maxims  and  proceedings  of  the  C<»veau  Modeme,  that  the 
Doctor  began  to  think  that  on  the  shoulders  of  a  young 
life-guardsman  he  had  discovered  the  head  of  a  Bishop. 
This  was,  however,  rather  a  blow  that  staggered  than 


30  INSTITUTION  OF  THK 

one  which  made  a  lasting  impression.  '^  Sir,"  said  the 
Doctor  to  Touchwood  next  day,  "  the  talk  of  half  these 
young  fellows  is  mere  foppery.  In  reality  they  know 
little  and  care  less  about  the  matter—- mere  foppery  and 
pretence,  sir." 

But  on  the  present  day  the  racy  flavour  of  Meg's  old 
claret  completed  the  conquest  of  Dr.  Redgill's  affections ; 
and  he  resolved,  if  possible,  to  abide  in  this  land  flowing 
with  milk  and  honey.  Moving  his  nose  over  his  glass, 
like  a  beau  smelling  a  nosegay,  "  Sir,'*  said  he,  **  I  pro- 
nounce this  wine  :  —  sir,  common  wines  have  tciste  —  this 
h&sflawur.**  Amid  the  smacking  of  green  seals  and  red 
seals,  the  cracking  of  nuts  and  of  jokes,  the  Nabob  with- 
drew to  sound  Mistress  Dods  on  the  affair  of  Dr.  Red- 
gilFs  establishing  himself  in  her  house :  which  he  did 
in  a  manner  that  evinced  considerable  knowledge  of  the 
trim  of  his  hostess. 

"  Sick  !  d'ye  say,  sir  ?  he  doesna  look  like  it,"  said 
Meg.  **  Fond  o'  a  quiet,  clean,  weel-ordered  house  ?  Is 
there  no  that  at  the  grand  new  hottle  he  gaed  to  ? 
Dying  !  Deil  a  fears  o*  him — ^that  I  should  ban !  unless  he 
smure  in  his  creesh  ;*  whilk  is  not  unlikely. — A  swalled, 
judgment-like  Jeshurun,  wi'  eyne  like  to  loup  with  clean 
fat,"  cried  Meg,  who  had  taken  deep  offence,  first,  at  the 
Doctor  going  to  the  Opposition  Hotel ;  and  secondly,  at 
the  freedom  with  which  he,  a  guest  there,  had  entered  her 
territories. 

"  But  here  he  shall  come,  Luckie,"  returned  Touchwood, 
"  ay,  this  very  night  too.  What,  woman  I  would  you 
turn  the  servant  of  the  Lord  —  the  stranger,  from  your 
gates  ?  —  An  invalid  too,  that  cannot  get  an  hour  of  rest, 

*  Be  smothered  in  his  own  grease. 


ST.  ronan's  cvlinart  club.  Si 

nor  a  morsel  he  can  swallow,  poor  gentleman,  in  their 
gilded-gingerbread  pig-sty  down  yonder !  '* 

"  Say  ye  sae,  say  ye  sae,  Mr.  Touchwood  ! "  cried  Meg, 
her  features  relaxing  ;  ^not  a  comfortable  meltith  o'  meat, 
and  him  in  a  dwining  way,  ye  say,  Nabob  ? — ^thongh  troth 
he  does  not  look  like  it !  But  fat  folk  are  often  feckless. 
There  was  Mr.  Matthew  Stechy,  St.  Ronan's  auld  butkr, 
that  kept  the  first  hottle  in  Glasgow — there  was  the  cook^ 
if  ye  speak  of  cooks  !  that  is,  for  a  man-eook,  whilk  is 
but  a  non-natural  calling — there  was  Matthew,  waxed 
fatter  and  fatter  to  a  perfect  mere-swine.  WeU,  he  broke, 
sir, — became  dyvour — was  ronped  to  the  door ;  took  the 
Mill-craft  down  in  the  Haugh,  wrought  hard  for  his  daily 
morsel,  and  is  now  as  swack  and  dean-delirer  a  man,  </ 
his  years,  as  enters  the  kirk  o'  St  Ronan^s.** 

^  It  will  do,  by  Jupiter  and  Comus !  **  exclaimed  Touch- 
wood, who  had  been  absorbed  in  a  very  unnsoal  fit  cf 
musing.  ^^The  CIdkum  Club — myself  President, — 
must  keep  order  amongst  them — BedgiU,  Viee  ;  Winter- 
blossom,  an  (M  coxcomb,  but  deep  in  the  mjttery  ;  Jekyl, 
a  conceited  fop,  but  has  his  uses ;  Meg  for  the  executive, 
with  this  Stechy — a  practical  man — ^nothing  like  practical 
men  in  business — Meg  with  great  practical  skill  and 
knowledge,  the  paragon  of  economy  and  cleanliness,  —  It 
will  do,  by  the  Boar  and  the  Peacock !  ** 

''And  what  will  do,  sirl"  replied  Meg.  ''The  East 
chaumer  for  the  Doctor,  wi*  the  red  Turk-upon- Turk  bed. 
It  can  get  a  slaik  o'  paint,  and  the  easy-chair  brought 
frae  Mr.  Frande's  room.  Puir  lad,  little  he  sat  in't.  The 
bunker  T  the  window  that  looks  down  through  the  firs  to 
the  Shaws  Place,  was  aye  his  seat  in  the  evening.  I'll 
ne'er  ha'e  a  lodger  like  him  V* 

''That's  all  past  and  gone,  dame,"  cried  Touchwood, 


32  IlCSTITtTTIOir  OF  THE 

impatiently ;  "  other  matters  on  hand,  woman :  but  re- 
member the  rice-water  to  mix  with  your  whitening,  as  I 
directed  you  in  whitewashing  the  kitchen." 

"As  ready  wi'  your  advice  as  your  help,"  mijttered 
Meg ;  "  but  I  just  took  kim-milk,  as  I  used  to  do,  and 
the  same  will  serve  this  turn  —  but  better  fleich  a  fule 
than  fecht  him." 

"  Well,  he  enters  to-night,"  said  Touchwood  ;  "  Jerry 
Ostler  must  settle  the  bill,  and  bring  over  the  baggage 
along  with  the  Doctor's  own  man." 

The  defection  of  the  great  Dr.  Redgill  from  the  New 
Hotel,  after  a  trial  of  twenty-four  hours,  was  the  most 
signal  triumph  Meg  had  yet  obtained  over  that  establish- 
ment. But  she  disdained  to  crimp  a  customer ;  and  as 
Mr.  Cargill  was  at  this  instant  passing  out^  happier  than 
ever,  after  this  sjnnposium,  to  escape  to  his  burrow  and 
his  books,  she  called  on  him  to  witness  the  compact. 

"  He'll  get  the  East  chaumer,"  said  Meg  ;  "  I  cannot 
spare  anither  parlour, — breakfast  his  lane  ;  and  ye  dine 
a'  thegither, — the  Club, — the  Cleikum  Club,  ye  ca*  it : 
and  better  mess  thegither  than  making  as  much  ready  for 
ae  single  gentleman  as  would  serve  six.  I'll  mak'  ye  a' 
comfortable,  never  fear  it.  But,  —  and  hear  me  now !  — - 
it's  no  to  be  said,  thought,  or  surmeesed,  that  by  harbour- 
ing and  resetting  a  rampant  follower  o'  the  Lethargy  o' 
the  Church  of  England,  I'm  to  change  my  Kirk  for  the 
lucre  o'  trade  and  custom.  Ye  certify  that,  Nawbob,  on 
saul  and  conscience  ;  or  a  dish  is  no  cookit  for  him  in  owre 
that  door-stane." 

"  Keep  yourself  easy,  Mistress  Margaret,"  said  Touch- 
wood ;  "  the  Doctor  is,  I  dare  say,  a  true  son  of  the 
Church  of  England,  but  he  admires  your  practice  too  much 
to  seek  to  shake  your  faith." 


ft 


ST.  RONAN*S  CULIXART  CLUB.  t& 

^Xa  ;  wha  made  me  a  judge  and  a  diYine?"  replied 
M^,  greatly  mollified  with  the  act  of  delirering  her  testi- 
mony ;  ^.I'm  no  dooting  bat  the  Doctor  has  the  root  o' 
the  matter  in  him,  Maister  Caigill." 

"  Ay,  that  he  has,"   cried  Touchwood ;  **  tmSles  and 
morels,  onions  and  carrots,  Fll  answer  for  him.** 
That's  enough,"  said  Meg. 

Go,  woman,  scour  your  saucepans.  Send  for  Stechy ; 
have  the  kitchen  like  a  Dutch  paradise  to-moirow  morn- 
ing ; — for  then  we  take  the  field !  " 

By  the  time  that  Touchwood  returned  triumphantly 
from  his  negotiation  in  the  kitchen,  the  good  wine  had 
done  its  good  office  in  the  parlour.  Not  that  there  were 
any  symptoms  of  inebriation,  either  actual  or  remote  ; 
but  the  preWuling  mood  was  free,  joyous,  in  short, 
highly  conviyial.  The  Doctor  told  prosy  college  stories 
of  college  feasts,  and  gave  Latin  t^Mists  ;  Winterblossom 
related  anecdotes  of  the  bon  vivans  of  another  generation, 
and  hummed  catohes  most  Tilely;  and  the  young  man 
smoked  his  cigar  and  the  whole  party  at  once. 

In  this  happy  hour,  on  whidi  farouring  stars  shed 
prosperous  influences,  was  the  Clrtkcm  or  St.  Ronan's 
Club  instituted.  To  conclude  the  entertainment,  the 
Nabob  produced  a  single  bottle  of  choice  Bui^ndy,  Mont 
Ratchet ;  and  a  special  bumper  was  dedicated  to  the  new 
comer.  Coffee,  four  years  kept,  but  only  one  hour  roasted, 
was  prepared  by  the  Nabob's  own  hands  —  coffee  which 
he  had  himself  brought  from  Mocha,  and  now  with  a 
scup^on  of  chiccory,  made  in  a  coffeepot  of  Parisian  inven- 
tion patronised  by  Napoleon. 

Mistress  Dods  was  afterwards  courteously  summoned  to 
make  tea ;  and  the  plan  of  the  proposed  Club  was  sub- 
mitted to  her  judgment.     She  startled  a  good  deal  at  first, 

c 


ti4  INSTITUTION  OP  TOB 

and  was  several  times  in  danger  of  bolting  off  the  course. 
But  once  fairly  engaged,  her  zeal  was  unbounded :  and 
long  experience  rendered  her  finally  the  most  efficient 
member  of  the  convocation. 

An  extended  correspondence  was  arranged  with 
celebrated  amateur  gourmands,  as  well  as  practical  cooks  ; 
and  also  with  those  Clubs,  both  provincial  and  metropoli- 
tan, of  which  the  eating,  rather  than  the  erudite  preparation 
of  dishes,  had  hitherto  been  the  leading  business. 

Meanwhile,  as  every  thing  requires  time,  while  the 
kitchen  stores  and  utensils  were  getting  into  order,  the 
Nabob,  aided  by  his  friend,  delivered  what  might  almost 
be  called  a  Course  of  Lectures  on  the  science  of  cookery 
in  all  its  branches,  which  we  propose  some  day  to  extend 
and  publish.  For  these,  though  exceedingly  valuable 
from  the  curious  facts  they  contained,  as  well  as  for  their 
philosophical  speculations,  Meg  had  not  patience. 

"  Let  us  to  the  wark ! "  she  cried  ;  "  what  business  ha'e 
thae  lang,  ink-horn- tailed  words  wi'  teaching  wives  and 
lasses  to  make  Cock-a-lbekie,  or  Friar's  Chicken  ? " 

"  Ay,  there  it  is,"  cried  Touchwood,  **  the  very  names 
stamp  truth  on  my  theory." 

"  Ay,  there's  Friar's  Chicken,  and  Friar's  Fish-in-sauce, 
and  Friar's  Balsam,  too,  Nawbob,"  said  Meg ;  "  and  my 
grand-dame,  as  ye  say,  was  just  as  good  a  cook  as 
mysel',  and  may  be  a  wee  thought  better  at  the  jeelies 
and  paistries ;  and  for  a  Floating  Island,  or  an  Almond 
Hedgehog,  we  could  never  pretend  to  ony  sic  grandery  at 
the  Cleikum ;  mair  especially  in  days  when  every  farmer- 
cliield  gangs  yanking  by  on  his  bluid-horse,  and  keeps  his 
bred  cook,  with  her  twal  pound  a-year  and  her  tea-money. 
A  bonny  breed  there  is  o'  them !  Unless  I  get  the  jillets 
o'  my  ain  up-bringing,  I  wadna  trust  them  to  scour  a  pot- 
lid,  Mr.  Touchwood." 


ST.  BONAN's  CUUNARr  CLUB.  95 

**Meg  shall  deliyer  the  lecture  on  the  breeding  and 
training  of  female  cooks,"  said  the  Nabob.  **  Bot  a  be- 
ginning must  be  made;  and  I  have  thrown  together  a 
few  loose  hints,  which  I  submit  to  yon,  gentlemen.  Yon 
know  my  object.  It  was  the  saying  of  a  great  prince, 
that  he  wished  erery  one  of  his  subjects  *  had  a  pullet  in 
the  pot.*  And  why  may  not  I,  simple  Peregrine  Touch- 
wood, do  my  best  to  instruct  every  fair  fellow-subject  of 
mine  how  to  dress  her  pullet  when  she  has  got  it?  If  a 
Dr.  King,  a  Sir  John  Hill,  a  Dr.  Hunter,  a  Sir  John  Sin  • 
clair,  and  a  Count  Rumford,  have  dedicated  their  time 
and  talents  to  the  service  of  their  species,  in  this  impor- 
tant department ;  nay,  if  a  Paris  and  Pereira  have  not 
disdained  it,  why  should  plain  Peregrine  Touchwood? 
No  man  cares  less  about  what  he  himself  eats  than  I  do, 
gentlemen.  A  man  who  has  shared  horse  flesh  with  the 
Tartar,  and  banqueted  on  dog's  flesh  with  the  China-man, 
is  not  likely  to  be  dainty  of  his  own  gab." 

Here  the  Nabob  took  from  his  pocket  the  Introductory 
Lecture, — ^which  had  been  privately  retouched  by  Winter- 
blossom,  as  its  garnish  showed, — ^wiped  his  mouth  with  his 
ample  Bandana,  and  proceeded  i — 

**  Gentlbmen, — Man  is  a  cooking  animal ;  and  in 
whatever  situation  he  is  found,  it  may  be  assumed  as  an 
axiom,  that  his  progress  in  civilization  has  kept  exact  pace 
with  the  degree  of  refinement  he  may  have  attained 
in  the  science  of  gastronomy.  From  the  hairy  man  of 
the  woods,  gentlemen,  digging  his  roots  with  his  claws,  to 
the  refined  banquet  of  the  Greek,  or  the  sumptuous  enter- 
tainment of  the  Eoman ;  from  the  ferocious  hunter, 
gnawing  the  half-broiled,  bloody  coUop,  torn  from  the 
still  reeking  carcass,  to  the  modem  gourmand^  apportioning 
his  ingredients,  and  blending  his  essences,  the  chain  is 


86  INSTITUTION  OP  THE 

complete !  FHrst,  We  have  the  brutalized  dt^^ger  of  roots  ; 
then  the  sfy  entrapper  of  the  finny  tribes ;  and  next,  the 
fierce,  f&ul  feeder,  devouring  his  ensnared  prey,  fat,  blood, 
and  muscle ! " 

**  What  a  style  o'  language ! "  whispered  Mistress  Dods  ; 
— **  but  for  a*  that  it's  me  maun  look  after  the  scouring  o' 
the  kettles." 

**  The  next  age  of  cookery,  gentlemen,"  continued  the 
orator,  *^  may  be  called  the  pastoral,  as  the  last  was  that 
of  the  hunt^.  Here  we  have  simple,  mild  broths, 
seasoned,  perhaps,  with  herbs  of  the  field,  decoctions  of 
pulse^  barley-cakes,  and  the  kid  seethed  in  milk.  I  pass 
over  the  ages  of  Rome  and  Greece,  and  confine  myself  to 
the  <xothic  and  Celtic  tribes,  among  whom  gradually 
emerged  what  I  shall  call  the  Chivalrous,  or  rather 
Feudal  age  of  cookery, — the  wild  boar  roasted  whole,  the 
stately  crane,  the  lordly  swan,  the  full-plumaged  peacock, 
borne  into  the  feudal  hall  by  troops  of  vassals,  to  the 
flourish  of  trumpets,  warlike  instruments,  marrow-bones, 
and  cleavers ! " 

"  Bravo !  "  cried  Jekyl. 

"  Cookery  as  a  domestic  art,  contributing  to  the  comfort 
and  luxury  of  private  life,  had  made  considerable  progress 
in  England  before  the  Reformation ;  which  event,  I  speak 
it  with  sorrow,  threw  it  back  some  centuries.  We  find  the 
writers  of  those  ages  making  large  account  of  an  art,  from 
which  common  sense,  in  all  countries,  borrows  its  most 
striking  illustrations  and  analogies." 

"  Only  hear  till  him  1"  whispered  Meg. 

"  The  ambitious  man  *  seeks  to  rule  the  roast ;  '—The 
meddling  person  *  likes  to  have  his  finger  in  the  pie ;  * — 

*  Meat  and  mass  hinder  no  business ; ' — The  rash  man 

*  gets  into  a  stew,'  and  *  cooks  himself  a  pretty  mess ; '— 


ST.  B0NiJ('8  CUI^INARY  CLUB.  37 

'  A  half-loaf  is  better  than  no  bread ; ' — *  There  go6s  rea- 
son to  the  roasting  of  an  egg ; ' — *  Fools  make  feasts,  and 
wise  men  eat  them  ; ' — ^  The  churl  invites  a  guest,  and 
sticks  him  with  the  spit ;  * — *  The  belly  is  every  man's 
master;' — ^'He  who  will  not  fight  for  his  meat,  what 
will  he  fight  for  ? ' — ^  A  hungry  man  is  an  migry  man  ; ' 
— *  It's  ill  talking  between  a  full  man  and  a  fasting ; ' — 
and^  finally,  ^  It  is  the  main  business  of  every  man's  life 
to  make  the  pot  boil ; '  or,  as  the  Scots  more  emphatically 
have  it,  *  to  make  the  pot  play  hrown^  which  a  maigre  pot 
never  will  do." 

"  And  that's  as  true,"  said  Meg.  "  A  fat  pot  boiling, 
popples  and  glances  on  the  tap,  like  as  mony  bonny,  brown 
lammer-beads." 

"Hush,  darnel — The  science,  as  we  noticed,  gentle- 
men, had  made  considerable  advances  in  England,  when 
the  Reformation  not  only  arrested  its  progress,  but  threat- 
ened for  ever  to  extingubh  the  culinary  fire.  Gastro- 
nomy, violently  expelled  from  monasteries  and  colleges, 
found  no  fitting  sanctuary  either  in  the  riotous  household 
of  the  jolly  Cavalier,  or  in  the  gloomy  abode  of  the  lank, 
pinched-visaged  Roundhead ;  the  latter,  as  the  poet  has 
it,  eager  to 

-'  Fall  out  with  minee-meat,  and  disparage 


His  best  and  dearest  friend,  plum-porridge,'- 

the  former  broaching  his  hogshead  of  October  beer,  and 
roasting  a  whole  ox,  in  the  exercise  of  a  hospitality  far 
more  liberal  than  elegant 

"  But,  gentlemen,  in  our  seats  of  learning,  the  genial 
spark  was  still  secretly  cherished.  Oxford  watched  over 
the  culinary  flame  with  zeal  proportioned  to  the  impor- 
tance of  the  trust !  From  this  altar  were  rekindled  the 
culinary  fires  of  Episcopal  palaces,  which  had  smouldered 


d8  INSTITUTION  OF  TUB  ST.  BONAN's  CLUB. 

for  a  time ;  and  Gastronomy  once  more  raised  her  parsley- 
wreathed  front  in  Britain,  and  daily  gained  an  increase  of 
devoted,  if  not  yet  enlightened  worshippers." 

"  Ay,  that  will  suffice  for  a  general  view  of  the  suhject," 
said  Dr.  Redgill ;  **  let  us  now  get  to  the  practical  part  of 
the  science, — arrange  the  dinners, — *  the  proof  of  the  pud- 
ding is  the  eating.' " 

Touchwood  had  a  high  disdain  for  what  he  called  "  the 
bigotry  of  the  stew-pan  '*  in  Dr.  Redgill,  who,  like  a  true 
churchman,  had  a  strong  leaning  to  *'  dishes  as  they  are." 
Jekyl  was  to  the  full  as  flighty  and  speculative  as  the 
Doctor  was  dogmatic.  The  young  man  had  French 
theory, — the  beau  ideal  of  gastrology  floating  in  his  brains, 
—  he  could  talk  of  Ude  and  Car^me.  His  experience  in 
the  most  fashionable  clubs,  and  taverns,  and  bachelor- 
establishments  about  the  metropolis,  had  indeed  been 
great ;  but  it  was  fortunately  modified  by  a  course  of 
Peninsular  practice,  under  Wellington;  and,  upon  the 
whole,  he  was  found  a  most  efficient  member  of  the  Club 
in  all  that  regarded  modem  improvements,  though  rather 
intolerant  of  Scottish  national  dishes. 

The  culinary  lectures  of  Touchwood,  whose  eloquence 
for  six  long  weeks  fulmined  over  the  Cleikum  kitchen, 
extended  to  such  unreasonable  compass,  that  a  brief  sylla- 
bus of  the  course  is  all  we  can  at  present  give,  without 
unduly  swelling  this  Manual,  and  losing  sight  of  the 
purpose  for  which  it  was  intended  ;  namely,  a  Practical 
System  of  Rational  Modern  Cookery  and  Domestic 
EcOnout,' 


do 


SYLLABUS. 

Lecture  I.  ImpoHance  of  the  science :  -^  Its  history. 

II*  On  Cooks. — ^The  name  clearly  derived  from  Coquin. 
—Their  self-conceit  and  prejudices. — Their'  ignorance. — 
May  he  propitiated  hy  a  printed  Guide  when  they  would 
disdain  advice.  —  Sly  peep  into  the  Manual  in  the  dresser 
drawer. — Books  of  receipts  most  useful  to  cooks  who  have 
already  made  some  practical  progress  in  the  art. — Their 
elemental  virtues,  aptness  to  learn,  order,  and  punctuality. 

III.  On  the  Kitchen.  —  Of  kitchens  in  general.  —  The 
Dutch  kitchen.  —  The  haronial  kitchen,  and  the  corridor 
communicating  with  the  chamhers,  whence  the  lady  sur- 
veyed the  operations  helow.  —  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield's 
kitchen.  —  Kitchen  of  a  comfortahle  village  inn.  —  The 
yeoman's  hall-kitchen. — Dark  kitchens  of  great  cities. — 
Importance  of  light. — The  construction  and  regulation  of 
the  fires.  —  Kitchen  ranges,  and  new-invented  culinary 
utensils :  many  of  them  sheer  humhugs ;  the  prudent 
housekeeper  should  see  them  in  operation  hefore  huying, 
and  adopt  no  new  range  of  which  actual  trial  is  not  first 
made.  —  Steaming ;  Ovens ;  Stoves.  —  Supply  of  soft  hot 
water  in  kitchens. — Eatchen  utensils. — Ought  to  he  provided 
in  proper  quantity,  as  well  as  of  suitahle  kinds. — Rather 
numerous  than  otherwise,  to  save  the  distraction  and  waste 
of  time  occasioned  hy  a  scanty  supply. — A  digester^  meat^ 
screen^  saUing-troughy  meat-safe^  balnea  tnaria,  and  a  few 
other  small  articles,  indispensable  in  families  where  comfort 
and  economy  are  studied.  —  Speedily  pay  themselves  by 
the  saving  of  fuel,  labour,  and  provisions. — ^May  be  bought 
on  the  graduated  scale  suited  to  the  size  and  circumstances 
of  the  family. — The  price,  to  a  young  housekeeper,  of  one 
couch  or  looking-glass,  would  obtain  all  those  kitchen 
articles  so  subservient  to  good  cookery  and  economy. 


40  SYLLABUS  OF  CULDIARY  LECTURES. 

IV.  Cleanlinrss. — Its  impoi-tance  insisted  on. — Con- 
sidered the  first  virtue  of  a  plain  cook.  —  Difference  of 
opinion  among  gourmands  as  to  its  relative  importance. — 
Female  cooks  generally  considered  superior  to  those  of  the 
other  sex  in  cleanliness. — Igt^  Cleanliness  as  applicable  to 
all  descriptions  of  culinary  utensils. — All  saucepans,  grid- 
irons, spits,  skewers,  &c.  to  be  laid  away  clean,  and  kept 
well  tinned  and  free  of  rust.  —  Pickle-jars,  casks,  troughs, 
paste-pins,  &c.  to  be  laid  aside  clean. — Great  attention  to 
be  given  to  keep  pudding-moulds  and  cloths,  t^pes,  jelly- 
bags,  tammy-eloths,  sieves,  &c.  dean,  sweet,  and  dry.  — 
Kitchen-cloths  to  be  washed  every  day  after  dinner. — 
Wood-ashes  recommended  by  French  artists  for  this  pur- 
pose, as  soap  gives  a  bad  flavour  to  pudding-cloths,  &c.— 2c?, 
Cleanliness  as  applicable  to  provisions  about  to  be  dressed. 
— Should  all  be  thoroughly  trimmed,  waslied,  and  wiped. 
—  Attention  to  be  given  to  careful  skimming,  straining, 
withholding  the  sediment  and  lees.  —  Neatness  in  dishing 
without  sloping  the  ledges  of  the  dishes.  —  Anecdotes  of 
the  slovenliness  of  cooks.  —  Nobleman  who,  visiting  his 
kitchen,  found  the  butter  required  for  the  made-dishes 

stuck  over  the  kitchen  fireplace. — Mr.  F    ■•■■  of  C ,  on 

a  similar  occasion,  finds  his  man-cook  employing  the  con- 
tents of  a  shaving-jug,  which  he  had  just  been  using,  to 
liquify  a  dish  of  mince-coliops ! 

V.  Early  Training  OF  Cooks. — No  receipts  sufficient 
to  qualify  -  for  duty.  —  Cooks,  like  surgeons,  must  first 
look  on,  and  next  put  to  their  hands.  —  A  mistress 
should,  in  preference  to  sending  an  intelligent  young  cook- 
maid  to  the  kitchens  of  great  hotels  and  Club  Houses,  pro- 
cure her  admission  as  a  spectator  and  assistant  in  the 
kitchens  of  families  who  give  handsome  dinners,  with 
some  frequency ;  and  where,  consequently,  good  cookery 
and  neat  and  stylish  dishing  are  not  only  thoroughly  un- 


SYLLABUS  OF  CULINARY  LECTUBES.  41 

der&food,  but  practised  daily.  Let  the  cook  do  this,  and 
study  Meg  Dods  both  before  and  after  such  days. — Ought 
to  be  duly  impressed  with  the  importance  of  the  art^  and 
above  all,  with  her  own  individual  responsibility.-^ 
Method  :  arrangement :  forecast  —  The  days  before  a 
great  dinner.  —  The  dap  of  a  great  dinner :  what  to  be 
done.r-^Soup8,  jellies,^  creams,  and  many  made-dishes  to  be 
prepiuned  beforehand  — Vegetables  cleaned  :  spiees  ready 
misced  :  thick^ung  prepared  :  poultry  I'eady  trussed  : 
chops  trimmed,  &c. — Rules  for  seasoning. — Training  of  the 
palate  of  the  oook — indurated  by  the  use  of  snuff,  tobacco, 
and  spirituous  liquors.  —  Gentlemen  of  forty-five  and 
upwards  generally  found  to  I'equire  a  double  allowance  of 
Cayenne,  eschalot^  garlic,  salt,  and  flavoured  wines  or 
vinegars,  compared  with  those  under  that  age,  unless  the 
juniors  have  been  bred  at  Oxford.  —  As  a  general  rale, 
bachelors  and  sportsmen  to  be  allowed  a  fourth  more 
seasoning  tlian  sober  married  men : — nearly  the  same  pro- 
portions hold  between  a  militaiy  man  and  a  civilian.  — 
For  West  and  East  Indians,  peppers  and  all  stimulating 
eondunents  may  be  used  ad  libitum, 

Vi.  On  Family  Management  anb  Domestic  Economy 
IN  OBNBBAL. — 1«^,  Early  rising,  impoiiance  of,  to  mistresses 
and  servants. — Where  impossible  or  inconvenient,  best 
substitute  an  early  dnd  diligent  inspection  and  regular 
enforcement  of  the  orders  given  the  night  before,  for  the 
employment  of  the  morning  hours.  —  2d,  Marketing  and 
laying  in  family-Stores  and  articles  that  improve  by  keep- 
ing-^as  soap,  sugar,  starchy  paper,  splceries,  fruits,  spring- 
made  candles,  &cw — ^Rice,  pearl  barley,  macaroni,  vermicelli, 
semoulina,  tapioca,  and  such  things,  should  be  bought  very 
fresh,  6Skd  not  in  large  quantities,  as  they  soon  spoil.  All 
best  preserved  in  cool,  but  dry  places.  No  expense  to  be 
grudged  that  ^  prevents  insects  and  vermin  from  getting  at 


42  STLLABUS  OF  CULINA.RT  LECTtRfifl. 

the  stores. — Sd,  Choice  of  proTisions. — The  senses  of  sight 
and  smell,  with  some  experience,  the  best  guides. — Pish  of 
all  sorts  best  when  short  and  thick,  well-made,  bright  in 
the  scales,  stiff  and  springy  to  the  touch,  the  gills  of  a 
fresh  red,  the  belly  not  flabby, — the  eyes  and  fins  to  be 
looked  at. — -Meat  speaks  for  itself. — The  fat  of  beef  to  be 
white  and  pure ;  the  lean  smooth-grained,  and  of  a  healthy 
brownish  crimson. —  Feal  should  be  fat,  white,  and  young  : 
the  mode  of  feeding  it  of  great  importance.  The  kidney 
to  be  duly  examined,  the  state  of  which  will  show  the  feeding 
and  condition  of  all  animals.  —  Bam-MtiUon  discoverable 
by  the  rank  flavour  and  coarse  texture  of  the  flesh. — 
Mutton  not  eatable  under  three  years  old.  Best  about 
five,  but  seldom  to  be  got  in  the  market  of  that  age. 
The  black-faced  or  hill  sheep  best  for  the  table,  though 
as  much  depends  on  the  pasture  as  on  the  breed. — Lamb, — 
The  qualities  of  it  may  easily  be  known  by  the  inspection 
of  the  head,  neck,  and  kidney ;  let  the  neck  be  fat, 
the  eyes  not  sunk,  the  kidney  fresh  and  fat,  the  quarters 
short  and  thick.  —  Pork  to  be  chosen  by  the  colour, 
and  the  smoothness  of  the  rind. — Measly  pork  easily  known 
by  the  little  lumps  and  kernels  mixed  with  the  fat,  which 
looks  clammy  and  greasy. — AU  meat  known,  if  stale,  by 
the  eyes  being  sunk,  the  kidney  tainted,  the  flesh  clammy 
and  livid.  The  best  joints  of  the  best  meat  cost  most 
money  at  first,  but  are  the  most  economical. — Utility  of 
purchasing  these. — Venison, — Should  be  thick  and  firm 
in  the  fat, — the  lean  pure.  —  The  age  of  deer,  hares,  and 
rabbits,  known  by  the  clefts  and  claws  being  close  and 
smooth  in  the  young  animal.  —  Game  and  PouUfy,  —  The 
age  known  by  the  legs  and  spur.  — When  smooth  in  the 
legs  and  short  in  the  spur,  the  animal  is  young.<^Trick 
of  poulterers  to  cut  and  shorten  the  spur.  —  Stale  when 
the  eye  U  sunk,  the  vent  tainted.  —  Black- legged  fowls 


SYLLABUS  OF  CULINARY  LECTURES.  43 

often  the  most  juicy  : — ^white-l^iged  look  better. — Atten- 
tion to  the  breed  and  form.  — Polanders.  —  The  Dorking 
large  breed  recommended — though  bad  layers — ^best  when 
short,  plump,  broad  in  the  breast,  and  thick  in  the  rump. 
— Game,  if  stale,  known  by  the  livid  colour  of  the  flesh 
about  the  vent. — Hams  and  Baeon  good  when  the  flesh 
adheres  firmly  to  the  bone,  the  smell  fresh,  the  lean 
clear  and  not  streaked  with  yellow.  — Very  good  hams 
from  Westmoreland,  Yorkshire,  Wiltshire,  and  other  parts 
of  England  and  Ireland :  —  if  well  fed  and  cured,  quite 
equal  to  those  of  Bayonne  and  Westphalia. — Brawn» — If 
old,  the  rind  thick  and  hard. — SaU  Butter  and  Cheese  to 
be  probed  and  tasted.  Fresh  butter  easily  known  by  \he 
taste. — Eggs  not  easily  known  when  stale.  Hold  between 
the  eye  and  a  candle  in  a  dark  room,  and  if  the  yolk  be 
unbroken  the  egg  is  not  stale  :  —  Rather  a  doubtful  test 
this. — JFish  of  all  kinds  best  when  fresh  caught ;  but  the 
fiat  fish,  as  turbot,  skate,  halibut,  may  keep  a  few  days, 
and  even  ripen  and  mellow  :  salmon,  tit)ut,  eels^  hernngs, 
and  mackerel,  and  also  haddocks  and  whitings,  cannot  be 
too  fresh.  The  red  fish  the  most  rich,  though  oily ;  the 
white  the  most  digestible.  Shell-fish  of  all  sorts  should 
be  quite  fresh  to  be  wholesome  or  eyen  safe.  Lobsters 
often  underhciled  by  fishmongers  to  make  them  keep 
longer.  An  eye  of  isome  experience  and  the  sense  of 
smell  best  determine  the  freshness  of  fish  : — directions  in 
the  receipts.  Chapter,  Fish,  for  preparing,  cooking,  and 
preserring  the  several  kinds. — Anclumes  and  Pickled 
Salmon  known  by  the  smell  and  fresh  colour  of  the  fish. 
-^Th6ir  picklc'-liquor  should  be  pure  and  well-flavoured. 
-M-The  red  colour  given  to  anchovy-liquor  by  artificial 
means,  and  no  test  of  goodness.  —  All  provisions  shouij> 

BE   BOUOHT    with    READY  MONEY  ;      OR    THE    BILLS    SETTLED 

WEEKLY. — Shown  to  be  a  saving  op  many  per  cents. 


44  SYLLABUS  OF  CULINARY  LECTURES. 

VII.  Miscellaneous  Hints  and  Directions.— Straining 
to  be  done  twice  if  necessary,  or  with  a  double  tammy- 
sieve. — All  jelly-bags  to  be  moistened  in  hot  water,  and 
well  wrung : — if  used  dry,  will  drink  up  a  considerable 
quantity  of  the  article  strained. — Full  supply  of  kitchen- 
cloths, —  use  of  gauze- wire  covers  and  cheese-cloths  in 
preserving  raw  and  cold  provisions.  Marble-slab  for 
paste,  —  marble  pestle  and  mortar.  —  Sauces  too  much 
thickened  can  never  after vrards  be  cleared  of  fat,  as  the 
fatty  matter  will  not  separate. — Sauces  and  broths  must 
have  time  to  cook  ;  but  if  kept  too  long  over  the  fire,  will 
deteriorate  both  in  colour  and  flavour. — This  is  peculiarly 
applicable  to  sauces  of  game.  —  All  sorts  of  small  cakes, 
pasties,  and  puffs,  shortbread,  Savoy  cake,  &c.  I^may  be 
renovated  by  being  laid  on  paper,  and  heated  on  the  hob, 
or  hot-hearth,  or  before  the  fire  when  to  be  used. — ^Pastry, 
if  kept  for  days,  is  so  much  refreshed  by  this  process  as 
to  eat  nearly  as  well  as  when  newly  baked,  from  the 
full  flavour  of  the  sugar,  butter,  and  fruit,  being  again 
brought  out.  —  Great  care  to  be  taken  that  every  single 
egg  used  be  fresh,  as  one  stale  egg  will,  in  cooking,  taint 
dozens. 

VIII.  Preserving  of  Provisions  by  Salting,  Drying, 
Pickling,  Preserving. — Importance  of  sugar  and  molasses 
in  preserving  meat,  fish,  and  butter ;  —  shown  to  do  so 
most  efi^ectually  with  only  a  small  proportion  of  salt. — 
The  pyroligneous  acid,  or  vinegar  of  wood,  and  chloride  of 
soda, — their  uses.  —  Late  discoveries  in  curing  provisions 
in  consequence  of  the  premiums  given  by  the  Highland 
Society. — Meat  salts  the  better  of  having  the  bones  taken 
out. — Bacon  should  always  be  twice  salted  or  pickled,  and 
be  patiently  rubbed  both  times. — All  meat  salted  in  pieces* 
and  packed  must  be  fully  covered  with  the  brine.  The 
process  of  salting  accelerated  by  occasional  rubbing  with 


8TLLABUS  OP  CULINART  LECTURES.  46 

fresh  salt.     This  important  suhject  more  fuUy  treated  of 
in  Part  IV.,  Chap.  III.,  of  the  Manual  ;  Art,  ISaUing, 

IX.  Pbebitums  to  Cooks  por  diligent  Discharge  op 
THEIR  Duties,  and  Propiciency  in  their  Art.  —  For 
neatness,  economy,  forecast,  the  preservation  of  provisions, 
invention  or  improvement  of  cheap  family-dishes. — Estab- 
lishment for  decayed  cooks,  and  prospectus  of  a  National 
Gastronomical  Board. 

X.  Causes  that  retard  the  Progress  op  the  Art. — 
Ignorance  and  prejudices  of  Cooks.  Inattention  of 
ladies. — ^Impudence  and  common  tricks  of  culinary  quacks 
and  would-be  gastronomers. 

XI.  On  French  Cookery.  —  The  French,  as  a  nation, 
allowed  to  be  the  best  cooks  in  the  world.  —  In  what 
their  superiority  consists  : — wherein  worthy  of  imitation. 
— ^Their  earthen  stew-pans, — charcoal  and  wood  embers, — 
small  furnaces,  —  their  fire  applied  aboee  and  around  as 
well  as  under  their  sauce-pans.  —  Their  cookery  of  vege- 
tables, and  of  dishes  of  desserte  (that  is,  of  cold  left  things) 
peculiarly  commendable.  Reference  made  to  Mistress 
Dods'  Manual  for  the  substance  of  French  Cookery. 

XII.  View  of  Cookery  in  Modern  Europe. — A  French 
dinner  described.  —  Restaurateurs  of  Paris. — A  word  to 
Amphitryons, — ^to  guests. — Petty  differences  of  usages  in 
different  countries. — What  would  be  considered  Ixyii  ton 
at  a  dinner  in  Paris,  reckoned  low  breeding  in  London. — 
Unctuous  dishes  of  Germany.  —  Mingled  barbarism  and 
refinement  of  Russian  cookery,  —  Russian  whets  and 
salads  : — ^the  kistiscM  or  raw  vegetables  in  quass :  vareniky: 
— htUerinia,  or  salad  of  salt-fish.  —  Spain  behind  all 
Europe  in  cookery  :  doubts  on  this  head  :  —  the  olla  or 
puchero  :  —  the  guisctdo,  —  Spaniards  unshaken  in  their 
loyalty  to  garlic  :  —  their  taste  for  allspice  traced  to 
Christopher  Columbus.    See  Manualy  National  Dislies. 


46  SYLLABUS  OF  CULINARY  LECTURES. 

XIII.  Anglo-oallican  Cookery  of  the  middle  of  the 
Nineteenth  Century  : — considered  the  best  the  world 
has  yet  seen. — Causes  which  retard  its  progress  : — conceit 
of  French  cooks,  and  affectation  of  juvenile  gastrono- 
mers. —  Reciprocal  influence  of  cookery  and  polite  litera- 
ture :  attention  given  by  the  periodical  writers  and 
novelists  of  the  day  to  this  important  subject  creditable  to 
their  understandings.  —  The  empire  of  cookery  extended 
by  late  travellers. — What  the  science  owes  to  the  Jesuits  : 
— to  the  White  Friars  r-— to  the  Trappists  : — to  Mesdames 
Maintenon  and  Pompadour. — lEulogy  on  Vatel. — Praise 
of  the  late  Mrs.  Baron  Hepburn,  of  Lord  Sefton,  Roths- 
child, Sampayo,  and  Sir  George  Warrender.  —  Careme, 
and  a  few  more  illustrious  chefs^  deeorcUive  cooks ;  as  much 
for  the  eye  as  for  the  palate ;  relying  too  much  upon 
ornamental  vases,  silver  skewers  and  dishes,  and  the  long 
purses  of  their  prigii]tal  parvenu  employers. 


47 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 

Car  VINO  has  ever  h^n  esteemed  one  of  the  minor  arts  of 
polite  life, — a  test  at  first  sight  of  the  breeding  of  men,  as 
it«  dexterous  and  graceful  performance  is  presumed  to 
mark  a  person  trained  in  good  fashion.     In  the  times  of 
chivalry,  carving  was  the   duty  of  the  younger  squire 
attendant  on  the  knight.     '^  To  dance  in  hall  and  carve  at 
board,"  are  classed  together  in  the  list  of  a  young  gentle- 
man's   accomplishments ;     and    Chesterfield,    the    great 
modem  teacher  of  polished  life,  has  made  this  qualifica- 
tion an  object  of  his  pupil's  peculiar  study.     Carving,  like 
heraldry,  hunting,  hawking,  and  other  sciences  of  a  like 
important  kind,  had  a  limguage  of  its  own.     Treatises 
were  composed  to  show  how  the  heron  was  to  be  dismemr 
bered,  the  duck  unbraced,  the  crane  displaced,  the  swan 
lifiedy  the  goose  reared,  and  so  forth.    The  Grand  Carver 
was  a  functionary  of  some  dignity  in  former  times ;  and 
till  the  office  is  revived,  or  the  oriental  and  continental 
custom,  of  having  the  principal  part  of  the  carving  per- 
formed by  the  cook  and  servants^  is  adopted,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  this  art  on  principles  of 
economy,  as  well  as  from  respect  to  good  manners. 

To  carve  quickly  and  neatly  requires  a  good  deal  of 
practice,  as  well  as  vigilant  observation  of  those  who  per- 
form the  office  well.  There  are  awkward  grown-up  per- 
sons, having,  as  the  French  say,  ttoo  left  hands,  whom  no 
labour  will  ever  make  dexterous  carvers  ;  yet  there  is  no 
difficulty  in  this  humble  but  useful  art,  which  young 
persons,  if  early  initiated  under  the  eye  of  friends,  might 
not  easily  surmount,  and  thus  save  themselves  much  awk- 
ward embarrassment  in  future  life.  One  objection  to 
allowing  juvenile  practice  is,  that  young  people  haggle 
provisions ;  but  they  might  be  permitted  sometimes  to  try 
plain  joints  and  cold  game,  which  would  soon  bring  in  their 
hands.  A  lady,  where  ladies  still  carve  at  family  dinners, 
requires  an  elevated  seat,  a  light  shai*p  knife,    and  the 


48  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 

dish  placed  near  her.  All  puddings,  trifles, pastry, &c.  should 
be  cut  or  helped  with  a  silver  spoon.  The  French  have 
a  small  silver  trowel  for  this  purpose.  Their  fish  trowel 
has  often  one  edge  with  teeth. 

Though  no  directions  can  supply  the  place  of  observation 
and  practice,  it  may  be  useful  to  tell  the  young  carver  how 
to  use  his  tools,  and  what  is  expected  from  him.  What  are 
esteemed  the  most  choice  morsels  of  every  dish  ought  to  be 
known  ;  for  ^^  to  deal  small  and  serve  all "  must  be  the 
carver's  maxim.  Venison  fat, — the  Pope's  eye  in  a  leg  of 
mutton, — veal  and  lamb  kidney,  —  the  firm  gelatinous 
parts  of  a  cod's  head, — ^the  thin  part  of  salmon, — ^the  thick 
of  turbot  and  other  flat  fish,  are  reckoned  the  prime  bits. 
— The  ribs,  neck,  and  pettitoes  of  a  pig, — ^the  breast  and 
wings  of  fowls,  —  the  shoulders,  rump,  and  back  of  hare 
and  rabbit, — the  breast  and  thighs  of  turkey  and  goose, 
cutting  off  the  drumsticks, — the  wings  and  breast  of  phea- 
sants, partridges,  and  moor-game,  and  the  legs  and  breast 
,of  duck,  are  also  reckoned  delicacies.  There  are,  besides, 
favourite  bits  highly  prized  by  some  gourmands,  though 
it  is  sometimes  not  easy  to  discover  in  what  their  superior 
excellence  consists  ;  as  dry  shank  of  mutton, — ^turbot  fins, 
— cod's,  tongue, — the  bitter  back  of  moor-game, — the  back 
of  hare, — the  head  of  carp.  In  stew-soups,  meat  and  force- 
meat balls  are  prized.  A  knowledge  of  these  things  will 
be  of  use  to  the  carver  as  a  guide  in  that  equitable  distri- 
bution of  good  things,  which  is  the  most  pleasing  part  of 
his  duty. 

A  person  of  any  refinement  will  eat  much  more  when 
his  food  is  served  in  handsome  slices,  and  not  too  much  at 
once,  than  when  a  pound  clumsily  cut  is  laid  upon  his 
plate.  To  cut  warm  joints  fairly  and  smoothly,  neither 
in  slices  too  thick,  nor  in  such  as  are  finically  thin,  is  all 
tliat  is  required  of  the  carver  of  a  plain  joint.*  For  this 
purpose  he  must  be  provided  with  a  knife  of  suitable  size 
having  a  good  edge  ;  and  it  will  greatly  facilitate  his 
operations  if  the  cook  has  previously  taken  care  that  the 
bones  in  all  joints  are  properly  divided.     It  is  impossible 

*  The  modem  little  instrument  called  **An  instantaneous 
knife-sharper  "  is  worthy  of  tlie  carver's  attention. 


PIRBCTIONS  FOR  CARTINO«  49 

for  the  most  dexterous  carver  to  proceed  with  ease  or  com- 
fort if  this  be  neglected.  Clever  cooks  are  beginning  to 
joint  game  and  small  poultry,  and  to  cut  the  sinews  with 
scissors,  before  dressing.  The  dishes  appear  at  table  in  the 
usual  form,  but  are  much  more  easily  carved.  Modem 
carvers  cut  diagonally  as  often  as  this  is  practicable,  as  it 
saves  the  joint,  improves  the  grain,  and  gives  a  better 
distribution  of  fat  and  lean.  In  carving  game  or  poultry 
for  a  large  party,  where  many  look  for  a  share  of  the  same 
delicacy,  what  is  called  *'  making  wings,"  must  be  avoided ; 
the  first  helpings  should  be  cut  the  long  way,  and  not 
made  too  large.  Pour  the  sauce  beside  the  meat  or  vege^ 
tables,  not  aver  them.  One  ladle  of  soup  is  a  helping. 
Whatever  accident  occurs,  preserve  your  self-possession. 

Turbot. — ^The  thick  part  is  the  best :  the  fins  &ie  fancied. 
Make  a  cross-cut  in  the  thickest  part  down  to  the  bone, 
then  make  lines  from  the  centre  to  the  fins,  and  take  out 
slices  with  a  fish-trowel,  helping  part  of  the^iw  with  each 
slice,  along  with  the  appropriate  sauce,  unless  it  ia 
handed  round. 

Salmon  is  easUy  carved,  whether  crimped,  m  sUces,  or 
boiled  whole.  At  elegant  tables,  this  fi;^  is  served  on  a 
napkin ;  a  slice  of  the  thick,  cut  so  as  to  preserve  the 
beauty  of  the  flakes,  and  a  smaller  one  of  the  thin,  art 
given  with  the  appropriate  sauces ;  and  a  slice  of  lemon 
or  cucumber  is  to  be  helped,  if  not  objected  to. 

JMed  Fish, — The  thick  part  is  reckoned  the  best.  The 
fish  are  to  be  cut  quite  through.  The  choice  is— •*'  Shoul* 
ders  or  tail?''   Neither  iron  nor  steel  should  ever  touch  fish. 

Sirloin  of  Beef. — This  favourite  joint  is  all  prime.  The 
fillet,  or  English  side,  as  it  it  called  in  Scotland,  is  pre-i 
ferred  by  many.  The  Sirloin  may  therefore  be  turned 
over  on  the  dish,  or  be  made  to  rest  on  the  chine  bone, 
and  slices  of  the  fillet,  cut  crosswise,  may  be  sufiicient  for 
the  party,  and  the  joint  be  left  to  present  cold,  apparently 
untouched.  Many,  however,  prefer  the  upper  part  of  the 
joint,  in  which  case  the  carver  should,  with  a  very  sharp 
knife,  make  an  incision  along  the  chine  bone  as  far  as  he 
^ihinks  slices  may  be  required ;  then,  cutting  off  the  outside 
slice  next  himself,  he  may  proceed  to  help  thin  slices,  cutting 


1 

I 


60  DIRECnONB  FOB  CARVING. 

from  the  chine  bone  towards  the  end  of  the  ribs,  serving  with 
each,  part  of  the  soft  fat  delicately  cnt,  gravy,  and  horse- 
radish. Some  at  once  carve  out  slices  along  the  back- 
bone. This  last,  however,  is  neither  the  most  economical 
nor  sightly  method.  If  the  meat  is  to  be  presented  cold, 
this  deep  trench — this  **  forty  mortal  gashes  on  its  side  " — 
looks  ill,  while  it  drains  the  joint  of  its  juices. 

Edffe-honey  or  Aitch-bone  of  Beef, — In  this,  and  all  pieces 
of  boiled  meat,  the  outside  slice,  which  becomes  dry  and 
hard  in  the  salting  and  boiling,  is  to  be  laid  aside  or  sent 
away.  This  done,  cut  handsome  smooth  slices  of  the  lean, 
and  with  each  give  a  very  little  of  the  marrowy  and  firm 
fat,  for  which  this  joint  is  prized. 

Round  of  Beef  is  carved  as  the  above,  with  a  large  car- 
ver for  the  pm-pose.  Begin  at  the  fattest  end.  Many 
carve  this  joint  slaiHwise  ;  but  more  commonly  it  is  cut 
horizontally,  preserving  a  smooth,  finely-grained  surface. 

A  Brisket  of  Beef  is  cut  down  to  the  bone  the  long  way 
in  rather  thin  slices,  as  the  piece  is  fatty  and  gristly ;  and 
all  fat  meat  must  be  cut  delicately  thin. 

Breast  of  Veal  or  Lamh, — Divide  the  gristly  part  from 
the  ribs,  as  directed  in  carving  a  Fore  Quarter  of  lamb, —  [ 

then  divide  both  the  cross  way.  The  choice  is — "  Gristles 
or  ribs  V*  Cut  the  meat  clean  off  ribs  of  veal,  as  the  gristly 
bones  only  encumber  the  eater's  plate,  and  ought  to  be 
cut  out,  and  dressed  d.  la  Fran^aise  as  Tendrons  de  Veau, 

Fillet  of  Veal.  —  This  is  usually,  and  always  ought  to 
be,  stnfied.  Cut  it  in  delicate  horizontal  slices ;  and  help 
either  the  browned  outside  or  the  inside,  as  is  chosen, 
with  a  little  of  the  fat,  a  thin  slice  of  the  stuffing,  and 
gravy,  &c. 

Qigot,  —  This  delicate  joint  is  familiar  where  veal  is 
small.  It  is  either  cut  in  horizontal  slices,  or  as  a  leg  of 
mutton,  but  beginning  nearer  the  broad  end.  Shoulder 
and  hin  of  veal  are  cut  as  mutton.  The  kidney  fat  of 
the  loin  is  prized,  and  sometimes  sliced  at  table  and  kept 
hot  over  a  lamp. 

Saddle  of  Mutt&n. — Cut  thin  sUees  along  the  backbone, 
dividing  them  if  too  long,  and  helping  fat  and  lean  together. 
Many  persons  think  that,  besides  being  a  m<Hre  economical 
way  of  carving,  all  meat  is  more  delicately  grained,  and 


DIRBCnONS  FOB  CARTING.  51 

eats  better,  if  a  deep  incision  be  made  along  the  bone,  and 
slices  taken  crosswise  from  thence.  ,  M.  Ude  does  so. 

Roasted  Piff.^-'We  could  wish  that  the  practice  of  hay- 
ing this  dish  carved  by  the  cook  were  universal ;  for,  in 
this  fastidious  age,  the  spectacle  of  a  four-footed  animal 
at  table  is  any  thing  but  acceptable.  like  the  larger 
poultry,  pig  is  also  very  troaUeeome  to  the  carver,  who 
must  have  a  sharp  knife,  with  which  the  head  is  to  be 
taken  off  in  the  first  place  :  then  cut  down  the  back  from 
neck  to  rump ;  afterwards  remove  the  shoulder  and  leg 
on  each  side.  The  ribs  are  then  to  be  divided  into  four 
portions,  and  the  legs  and  shoulders  cut  in  two.  The 
ribs  were  esteemed  ihe  most  delicate  part  of  this  dish ; 
now  the  neck  of  a  well-roasted  pig  is  the  favourite  morsel. 
The  carver  must  use  his  discretion  in  distributing  ear  and 
cheek,  as  far  as  these  will  go  ;  and  the  cook  should  enable 
him  to  help  stufi^  and  sauce  liberally. 

Hams  are  cut  in  various  ways.  You  may  begin  near 
the  knuckle,  which  is  the  most  economical  method ;  in  the 
middle,  taking  out  slices  in  a  slanting  direction,  that  the 
fat  and  lean  may  be  fairly  divided ;  or  at  the  broad  end. 
The  chief  thing  to  be  attended  to,  after  an  incision  is 
made,  is  the  delicacy  of  the  slices. 

Tongue, — The  best  part  is  the  thickest,  and  the  meat  is 
most  delicate  when  cut  across  in  very  thin  slices.  Some 
leave  a  bottom  or  soie  for  the  sake  of  appearance  ;  others 
reckon  it  more  economical  to  cut  in  thin  slices  the  long 
way.     Tongue  and  ham  cannot  be  too  delicately  cut. 

CotTs  Head  and  Shoulders^  if  served  plain  or  without  a 
sauce  in  the  dish,  should  be  served  on  a  napkin.  If  suf- 
ficiently boiled  it  is  easily  carved.  Let  the  back  of  the 
fish  be  placed  towards  the  carver.  Enter  the  silver  fish- 
slice within  three  inches  of  the  head,  and  cut  across 
down  to  the  bone.  Help  from  this  opening  right  and  left 
at  convenience,  taking  care  not  to  make  a  jagged  surface 
by  breaking  the  flakes.  The  gelatinous  pieces  about  the 
neck  and  head  are  prized,  and  also  a  small  slice  of  the 
wund.  The  palate  and  tongue  may  be  got  at  with  a  spoon, 
but  these  are  rather  the  fantastic  than  prime  parts.  Some 
cut  the  fish  longwise  ;  but  the  above  is  perhaps  the  fairer 
mode* 


SntECTIOHB  FDR 


Hatmch  of  Veniton.  —  Make  an  incision  quite  down  to 
the  bone  in  the  direction  of  the  line  a  b,  to  let  the  grav<r 
flow.  Let  the  carver  then  turn  the  diah  towards  himself, 
abd  cnt  down  to  the  bone  from  c  to  d.     The  moat  delicate 


a  df,  next  him.  From  the  incision,  slices,  not  too  thick, 
may  be  cut  from  "  the  AMerman's  walk,"  which  slices,  if  too 
lar^  can  be  divided.  A  thinner  and  smaller  slice  of  fat 
must  be  given  with  each  helping,  and  also  gravy.  As  the 
fat  of  venison  freezes  vary  rapidly,  the  more  expeditiously 
the  carver  gets  through  his  task  the  better ;  or  a  dish  with 
a  spirit-lamp  is  sometimes  brought  to  the  table,  to  keep  th* 
gravy  and  fat  qaite  hot.  Sometimes  the  cook  makes 
a  diart  of  cloves  on  the  joint,  as  a  guide  to  the  carver. 

Haunch  of  MaUoa  is  carved  exactly  aa  venison. 

A  Boiled  Qigot  or  Leg  of  Mutton.  —  A  boiled  gigot  or  leg 
is  often  served  with  the  inside  uppermost ;  a  roast  leg  or 
haunch  always  with  the  outside  uppermost.  The  most  juicy 
part  of  this  favourite  joint  is  about  the  thick  of  the  Uiigh, 
or  along  the  backbone.  Let  the  knuckle  lie  to  the  carver's 
left  band,  and  let  him  cut  down  to  the  hone,  through 
the  noix  or  kernel,  called  the  Pope's  eye.  Though  th* 
most  juicy  part  of  the  leg  is  here,  some  choose  the  dry 
knackle  ;  and  others  the  fatty  part  about  the  chump ; 
others  delicate  slices  that  may  be  found  along  the  back- 
bone; even  the  tail  of  fat  mutton  is  chosen  by  some. 
Some  modem  carvers  give  horizontal  slices,  and  prefer 
this  mode ;  others  diagonal  slices,  which  is  better. 

ShotUtUr  of  Mutton.  This  Joint  is  served  as  shown. 
Cut  into  the  thickest  part  down  U>  the  bone  in  a  slanting 
line  from  a  to  (y  and  from  this  opening  take  slices  of  t 


DiaBcnoKS  FOB  CARviNa. 


propel  thicknesB.  If  more  helpings  are  wanted,  soin€ 
delicate  slic«s  may  be  got  on  each  fade  of  the  ridge  of  the 
blade-1x>ae,  in  the  direction  edand  «/.  The  moat  delicate 
alioes  are  to  be  found  in  tlut  part  whhh,  in  the  living 
animal,  lay  next  to  the  backbone ;  they  are  to  be  cut  ont 
lather  thin,  in  the  direction  of  the  line  ff  h.  In  almoet  all 
aniroals  delicate  fatty  siicea  are  to  be  found  along  the 
backbone.  Good  fleshy  slices,  full  of  juice,  though  not 
very  delicate  in  the  fibre,  are  to  he  got  by  turning  the 
ahoulder  over,  and  catting  slantwise  into  the  hollow  part 
of  the  inside.  So  various  are  tastes,  that  gome  persons 
prefer  the  knuckle,  though  the  driest  and  coarsest  part  of 
the  animal.  Some  modem  Btraight/oraiard  carvers  prefer 
at  once  carTing  from  what  is  called  the  "  oyster,"  and  right 
down  from  the  knuckle  to  the  broad  end.  The  knuckle 
should  be  turned  down  from  the  first  joints  though  not 
thus  shown  in  the  above  plate. 
Fore  Quarter  of  Lamb. — Separate  the  shoulder  from  the 


64  DIRBOnONS  lOB  CARVTNO. 

nhoy  by  passing  a  carTing-knife,  held  nearly  horizontally, 
in  the  direction  ab  e  de.  Take  care  not  to  make  too  broad 
a  shoulder-flap,  and  thus  leave  the  ribs  too  bare.  Some 
carvers  merely  make  a  slight  incision  into  the  skin,  and 
tear  off  the  shoulder-flap.  The  shank,  which  should  be 
twisted  in  fringed  paper,  may  be  held  in  the  carver's  left 
hand.  S<][ueeze  a  little  juice  of  lemon  or  Seville  orange 
over  the  parts  separated,  and  sprinkle  them  with  a  little 
salt.  They  may  also  be  laid  together,  and  gently  pressed 
down,  to  make  the  juice  flow ;  or  have  a  little  plain  or 
Mattre  d'H6$el  butter  laid  between  ihem  if  deficient  in 
juice.  Next  separate  the  gristles  of  the  breast  from  the 
ribs,  in  the  direction  ef;  carve  them  in  the  direction  of 
ff  hy  and  the  ribs  in  the  direction  of  i  j.  The  choice  is  — 
"  Ribs,  gristle,  or  shoulder  ?"  The  shoulder  is  to  be  carved 
as  directed  for  shoulder  of  mutton  ;  and  if  the  joint  is  large, 
it  will  be  found  convenient  to  put  the  shoulder  aside  on  a 
plate,  while  carving  the  ribs,  &c.  A  saddle  of  lamb  is 
carved  as  directed  above,  for  a  haunch  of  venison  or  saddle 
of  mutton. 


A  Goose,  —  The  carver  may  turn  the  dish  towards  him, 
and  cut  nice  thin  slices  in  the  lines  b  a,  down  to  the  breast- 
bone, helping  as  he  carves.  If  there  be  stuffing,  the  apron 
must  be  cut  open  in  the  circular  line  f  I  g^  and  stufiing 
may  be  served  with  each  helping.  If  there  be  no  stufiing, 
a  glass  of  wine,  a  little  orange-gravy,  or  vinegar,  is  poured 
into  the  body  of  the  goose  at  the  opening  which  the  carver, 
for  this  purpose,  makes  in  tii»  spron.  Orange  gravy  or 
red  wine  is  also  often  posved  q^^  4h0  sliced  breast  of  goose 
or  duck,  before  the  slieet  are  iftken  <mt«  If  the  party  be 
so  numerous  that  the  hzeMt-diees  are  not  sufiicient,  the 
earver  must  first  help  a  slice  or  two  from  the  right  leg,  and 


then  proceed  to  disjoint  it;  for  which  purpose  he  must  put 
his  fork  through  the  small  end,  press  it  close  to  the  hody, 
and  meanwhile,  entering  his  knife  at  dy  jerk  the  leg  smartly 
back,  and  the  joint  will  separate,  when  the  leg  may  easily 
be  eat  oiF  in  the  direction  d  e.  The  wing  on  the  same  side 
is  next  to  be  taken  off.  For  this  purpose,  fix  the  fork  in 
the  ^nion,  press  it  to  the  body,  and,  entering  the  knife  at 
r,  separate  the  joint,  and  afterwards  cut  off  the  wing  in  the 
direction  c  d.  Proceed  in  the  same  way  to  take  off  the 
other  leg  and  wing.  In  helping  a^i^oose,  the  thigh,  which 
is  A  farourite  part,  may  be  separated  from  the  drumstick, 
ajid  the  fleshy  part  of  the  wing  from  the  pinion.  Fortu- 
nately for  the  carver  the  breast-dices  are  in  general  found 
«nfficient ;  as  dismembering  an  old  goose  or  turkey  is  one 
of  the  most  laborious  and  awkward  of  his  duties.  They 
order  these  things  better  on  the  Continent. 

Turh^.  —  Where  the  party  is  not  very  Urge,  and  the 
dishes  are  numerous,  a  good  many  small  delicate  slices, 
iinth  very  thin  portions  of  the  stuffing,  may  be  helped 
lengthwise  from  the  breast.  If  this  is  not  sufficient^  pro* 
ceed  as  above  directed  for  a  goose. 


A  Bootst  Fowly  with  the  wing  and  leg  its  cut  off*  —  Fowls 
are  earved  in  the  same  way,  whether  boiled  or  roasted. 
In  a  boiled  fowl,  the  legs  are  bent  inwards,  and  trussed 
witMn  the  apron ;  in  a  roasted  fowl  they  are  left  out  and 
skewered  en  long.  The  carver  may  remove  the  fowl  from 
the  dish  to  his  own  plate,  particularly  when  two  fowls  (as 
is  usual)  are  served  in  the  same  dish.  The  members  and 
joints,  as  taken  off,  are  to  be  placed  in  the  dish,  if  not 
helped  round  as  cut  off,  which  is  the  best  way,  as  the 
guests  are  not  kept  waiting,  and  the  carver  sees  when  he 


68  nmBonoNB  v 

hu  enough.  He  mtiat  fix  his  fork  in  the  breast,  ftad  tak« 
off  slices  from  the  breast  on  each  side  of  the  merrythought, 
which  are  to  be  helped  in  the  fint  place,  or  left  till  the 
whole  IB  finished,  as  is  chosen.  Next  separate  the  joint  of 
the  wing  in  the  direction  a  b;  then  separate  the  muscles, 
by  fixing  the  fork  in  the  pinion,  and  smartly  jerking  back 
the  wing  towards  the  leg.  Pass  the  knife  between  tlie 
body  and  leg,  in  the  direction  h  d  k,  and  cut  to  the  joint 
clear ;  then,  with  the  fork  fixed,  jerk  the  leg  back,  and 
the  parts  will  give  way.  Turn  round  the  fowl  on  your 
plate,  and  take  off  the  other  leg  and  wing;  next  cut  the 
bi'east  in  the  line  e  c,  and  turn  the  knife  towards  tlie  neck 
under  the  merrythought,  which  it  will  eawly  lift  from 
the  breast.  Take  off  the  neck-bone,  by  putting  in  the 
knife  at  g;  and  having  the  fork  well  fixed,  jerk  it  off 
from  the  part  which  adheres  to  the  hreast-hone.  The 
members  being  thus  disposed  of,  the  breast  must  be 
divided  from  the  body  by  cutting  right  through  the  ribs 
downwards  to  the  rump  on  each  side.  This  done,  turn 
the  back  of  the  fowl  upwards  on  your  plate.  Lay  your 
knife  firmly  across  it,  as  if  to  hold  it  down,  and,  with  the 
fork  fixed  in  the  rump,  give  it  a  jerk,  when  it  will  eauly 
divide  across ;  turn  the  rump  from  you,  and  cut  off  the 
eide-bones,  and  the  fowl  is  carved.  What  demands  most 
attention,  is  to  hit  the  joint  of  the  wing,  so  as  not  to  inter- 
fere with  the  neck-hone.  The  prime  parts  of  a  fowl, 
whether  boiled  or  roasfed,  are  the  bi'east,  menythought, 
wings,  particularly  a  livered  wing,  and  side-hones.  The 
thigh  of  a  Imiled  fowl  is  often  preferred,  if  white,  fleshy, 
and  fat.  Some  dexterous  carvers  can  take  out  a  side-bone 
and  leave  on  the  leg  and  wing,  which  permits  the  fowl  to 
be  presented  cold  in  good  form. 

A  Phmsmtt  or  Blackcock. — Fix  the  fork  in  the  breast. 


DIBECnONS  POR  CARTINO* 


W 


and  cnt  slices  in  the  lines  a  b.  If  more  helpings  are 
wanted,  take  off  the  legs  and  wings,  as  directed  in  carving 
a  fowl,  and  be  careful  in  taking  off  the  wing  to  hit  the 
exact  point  between  it  and  the  neck-bone.  Next  cut  off 
the  merrythought  in  the  line  c  dy  and  then  divide  the  other 
parts  exactly  as  a  fowl.  The  prime  bits  are  the  same  as 
in  a  fowl.  The  brains  are  fancied*  Of  course,  all  skewers 
are  removed  before  the  birds  are  served. 

Pigeons, — To  divide  the  pigeon  by  carving  from  the 
breast  downward,  in  the  line  d  e,  is  esteemed  the  fairest 
way,  as  the  thigh  and  rump  are  counted  delicate  ;  though 
many  prefer  the  breast.  Pigeons  may  also  be  divided  in  a 
triangular  line,  b  a  Cy  making  two  legs,  and  two  wings, 
with  the  breast.  Ducklings,  or  very  young  spring  chickens, 
are  carved  in  the  same  manner. 


A  Partridge*  —  A  partridge  is  cut  up  as  a  fowl  or 
pheasant.  The  prime  parts  are  the  same  in  them  all ; 
but  in  a  partridge  the  wing, — and  particularly  the  tip  of 
the  wing, — ^is  reckoned  the  most  dainty  bit.  Small  game, 
where  many  helpings  are  required,  may  be  carved  by 
turning  back  the  legs,  fixing  the  fork  in  the  back,  sepa- 
rating the  whole  body  from  the  back,  and  then  dividing 
the  bird  into  six  portions, — namely,  four  helpings  of  a 
wing  or  leg,  the  breast,  and  the  back. 

A  Boast  Hare.  —^ While  roast  hare  is  sent  to  table  as 
represented  in  the  plate,  the  carver  must  enter  his  knife  at 
g,  and  cut  fairly  down  in  parallel  lines  on  each  side  of  the 
backbone  to  A.  These  slices  are  considered  prime,  and 
must  be  served  first.  The  legs,  as  next  best,  are  to  be  cut 
in  the  circular  line  c  b  a — which,  if  the  animal  be  young, 
will  not  be  difiicult — and  divided  into  proper  helpings  free 
of  bones.   The  shoulders  are  then  taken  off  in  the  circular 


DIBKCnOMB  BOB.  CABFIim. 


line  e/ff.  Now  divide  the  body  or  back  into  three,  or,  if 
a  large  hare,  four  pieces,  going  right  through  the  epine  at 
&  joint.  An  old  hare  should,  when  it  is  practicable,  have 
the  backbone  cut  out  before  roasting.  If  the  hare  is  old 
and  tough,  the  carver  should  turn  the  dish  towards  him- 
telf,  and  cut  off  the  legs,  entering  bis  knife  about  two 
inches  below  the  backbone,  trying  to  hit  the  haunch  joint, 
and  jerking  it  open  as  in  carving  a  goose.  If  the  whole 
hare  is  wanted,  the  head  must  be  cut  off  and  placed  on  s 
plate,  the  upper  part  divided  from  the  under  jaw,  and 
then  cut  exactly  down  the  middle.  The  slices  may  be 
either  helped  as  carved,  which  we  consider  the  best  way, 
or  left  till  the^whole  process  is  finished.  They  are  helped 
with  stuffing  and  gravy.  During  the  process,  the  carver 
should  frequently  moisten  the  dry  roas^  and  the  parts  cut 
off,  with  the  hot  gravy  in  the  dish.  The  eart  and  brain 
are  faneied;  so  that  soiae  care  must  be  taken,  by  paper- 
ing, to  have  the  ears  crisp  ;  and  before  roasting  they  shonld 
be  singed  inside  with  a  hot  poker,  or  Italian  iron-heater. 
No  bone  should  be  given  with  hare. 

Raibita  are  carred  like  harej  only,  being  much  smaller, 
the  head  is  not  divided,  and  the  back  is  out  into  fewer 
tneces.    The  shoulders  of  rabbits  are  considered  tid-bits. 

The  carrer  is  permitted  to  turn  every  dish  towards  him- 
self, when  more  convenient,  and  he  generally  cuts  towards 
himself.  From  a  dish  presented  in  its  customary  position 
he  onta  from  left  to  right.  Fowls  and  Turkeys  boned, 
and  stn^d  with  forcemeat,  are  cut  in  slices  across  Ukg 
tongue.  Things  that  are  larded  must  be  cut  the  cross- 
way  of  the  lardona. 


PIKBCnOMS  VO|t  CARTINO.  59 

Eyeiy  graceful  carver  will  try  to  coyer  the  unsightly 
gashes  he  must  sometimes  make — ^in  fish  particularly — ^by 
throwing  the  parsley,  or  other  garnish,  oyer  the  wreck.  In 
ordinary  circumstances,  garnishing  the  Mges  of  dishes  is 
rather  losing  ground.  At  highly  dressed  dinners,  garnished 
by  thorough-bred  professors,  all  sorts  of  ornament  are  ex- 
pected. For  public  breakfasts,  collations,  and  suppers,  gar- 
nishings  of  coloured  jellies,  and  of  sauces  iced  and  moulded 
in  the  French  style,  have  peculiar  beauty  and  fitness.  And 
even  at  small  quiet  dinners,  brain-cakes,  forcemeat-balls, 
small  fried  fish,  or  oysters  fried,  sippets,  small  sausages, 
pastry-borders,  and  those  of  potato,  or  rice,  are  always 
appropriate  when  served  with  the  respective  dishes  to  which 
the  best  usages  of  eookeiy  have  attached  them ;  while  the 
fried  parsley,  the  spinage,  sorrel,  turnip,  or  other  pnr^^ 
on  which  frica/ndeaUy  tongue,  or  boiled  mutton,  &c.  may 
be  served,  is  a  positive  improvement,  at  almost  no  addi* 
tional  expense.  But  as  it  must  ever  be  more  convenient, 
it  is  also  more  agreeable,  to  see  such  things  as  sliced  orange 
or  lemon,  beet»  pickles,  scraped  horseradish,  &c.  placed  on 
a  email  dish  near  the  carver,  than  tossed  awry,  soused  in 
the  gravy,  or  sloping  the  edges  of  the  dishes.  Curled 
parsley  is  always  refreshing^  and  generally  appropriate  ; 
and  stUl  more  so  fresh  water-cress^.  There  is  one  cheap  and 
eamfortable  mode  of  imparting  a  look  of  fulness,  finish,  and 
neatness^  in  serving  an  otherwise  insignificant  dressed  dish, 
when  destined  to  occupy  a  principal  place,  which  merits 
more  general  adoption,  -—  namely,  serving  the  dish  on  a 
larger  one,  within  which  a  damask  napkin  is  neaUy  puffed, 
or  the  fancy  napkins  which  ladies  now  knit  for  such  pur- 
poses, thus  showing  an  agreeable  framework  or  border,  of 
which  a  light  paste  border  round  the  dish  with  the  viands; 
may  form,  as  it  were,  the  inner  circle.  But  Cabsme's  orna- 
mented silver  vases  and  skewers  are  the  greatest  modern 
discovery  in  mere  garnishing.    They  are  indeed  superb. 

Pbotest. — We  hope  to  see  the  day  when  all  large  tronblesome 
dishes  will  be  taken  to  the  side-table,  after  being  presented,  and 
carved  by  the  Maitre  d'Hotel,  the  butler,  or  whoeyer  waits  on 
the  company,  as  is  now  the  general  practice  of  France,  Germany, 
and  Russia,  and  the  best  houses  in  England.  P.  T.,  H.  J. 


60 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Tables  sliotild  be  like  pictures  to  the  sight, 
Some  dishes  cast  in  shade,  some  spread  in  light ; 
Some  should  be  moved  when  broken,  others  last 
Through  the  whole  treat  incentive,  to  the  taste. 

Kinoes  Cookery, 

As  landmarks  to  the  inexperienced  housekeeper,  as  indi- 
cators  rather  than  dictatorial  guides,  we  suhjoin  a  few  bills 
of  fare,  premising  that,  in  every  instance,  much  is  left  to  in- 
dividual taste  and  discretion.  Bills  of  fare  may  be  varied 
in  endless  ways, — ^nor  can  any  specific  rules  be  given  for 
selecting  dishes  for  the  table,  which  must  depend  wholly 
on  fortune,  fashion,  the  season  of  the  year,  local  situation, 
and  a  variety  of  circumstances.  .  Neatness  and  propriety 
are  alone  of  universal  obligation  in  the  regulation  of  every 
table,  from  the  humblest  to  the  mo^t  sumptuous.  To  the 
credit  of  the  age,  modern  fashion  inclines  more  to  a  few 
dishes,  well  selected  and  elegantly  disposed,  than  to  that 
heterogenous  accumulation  of  good  things  with  which 
notable  British  housewives  used  to  conceal  their  table- 
linen.  The  culinary  tastes  of  our  polite  neighbours  are 
imperceptibly  undermining  many  points  of  our  ancient 
national  faith.  At  refined  tables,  fat  puddings,  very 
rich  cakes,  and  fat  meat-pies,  have  lost  ground.  Creams, 
jellies,  and  preserved  and  caramelled  fruits  or  compoteSy 
take  their  place.  Fish  is  more  simply  cooked  than  it  for- 
merly was.  Putrid  game  is  no  longer  aduiired ;  and  the 
native  flavour  of  all  viands  is  more  sedulously  preserved 
by  a  simpler  and  better  sty4e  of  cookery. 

The  manner  of  laying  out  a  fashionable  table  is  nearly 
the  same  in  all  parts  of  the  United  Kingdom  ;  yet  there  are 
trifling  local  peculiarities  to  which  the  prudent  housewife 
in  middle  life  must  attend.  A  centre-ornament,  whether 
it  be  a  dormanty&plcOeaUy  an  epergne^  a  candelabra,  or  a  wine' 
vase,  is  found  so  convenient,  and  contributes  so  much  to 
the  good  appearance  of  the  table,  that  a  fashionable  dinner 
is  now  seldom  or  never  set  out  without  something  of  this 
kind,  though  a  salad,  or  a  cold  ornamented  raised  pie  may 
fill  the  space  in  the  first  course. 

A  very  false  taste  is  often  shown  in  centre-ornaments. 


BILLS  OF  FARS.  61 

Strange  ill-assorted  nosegays,  or  monstrous  bonqnets 
of  artificial  flowers,  begin  to  look  faded  among  tiiose 
hot  steams,  which  soon  deprive  even  the  more  appropriate 
salad  of  its  fresh  and  crispy  appearance.  The  modem 
silver  skewers  and  vases,  or  ornamental  articles  of  family 
plate,  carved,  chased,  or  merely  plain,  but  highly  polished, 
can  never  be  out  of  place,  however  old-fashioned,  and  are 
the  only  things  of  which  this  can  be  constantly  affirmed. 
In  the  same  manner  we  may  assume,  that  in  desserts^ 
richly-cut  and  brightly  washed  useful  articles  of  glass  and 
china  can  never  cease  to  be  ornamental ;  though  we  would 
pause  on  the  adoption  of  all  alum  or  wax  baskets,  and  all 
fruits  of  this  last  tantalizing  substance,  with  many  other 
things  of  the  counterfeit  kind.  We  are  far,  however,  from 
proscribing  flowers,  and  the  foliage  and  moss  in  which 
fruits  are  sometimes  seen  lightly  bedded.  These,  next  to 
the  native  dew,  and  the  bloom,  are  beautiful  and  appro- 
priate. That  sparkling  imitation  of  frostwork,  which  is 
given  to  preserved  fruits  and  other  things,  is  also  exceed- 
ingly beautiful ;  as  are  many  of  the  trifles  belonging  to 
French  and  Italian  confectionary.  As  we  are  disposed 
to  give  the  Monks  full  credit  for  many  of  the  best  French 
dishes,  and  for  our  own  exceUent  if  antiquated  national 
preparations,  so  are  the  fair  recluses  of  France  and  Italy 
entitled  to  the  merit  of  much  that  is  elegant  in  confec- 
tiona^,  of  which  they  long  had,  and  still  have,  tasteful 
\  exhibitions  on  festivals.   To  their  leisure  and  taste  we  owe 

caramelled  and  candied  fruits,  fruits  en  chemisey  Chantilly, 
and  caramel  baskets,  &c.  &c.,  as  really  as  we  do  the  most 
delicate  lace,  needlework,  and  cut  paper. 

It  may  be  assumed,  that  utility  is  the  true  principle  of 
beauty,  in  affairs  of  the  table,  and,  above  all,  in  the  sub- 
stantial First  Course,  The  first  course  may,  therefore,  con- 
sist mainly  of  English  dishes ;  while  French  appear  in  the 
second. 

Linen  well  done  up,  and  overlays,  or  more  cloths  than 
One,  with  a  scarlet  baize  between,  give  a  table  a  clady  com- 
fortable look.  Though  English  gentlemen  and  gentle- 
women do  not  slobber  and  bedaub  their  fingers,  mouths, 
and  clothes,  like  some  of  their  continental  neighbours, 
table-napkins  are  now  in  all  but  universal  use  at  refined 


62  BILUS  OF  PARE, 

English  tables,  even  at  those  of  persons  in  the  humbler 
classes  of  middle  life. 

In  aU  ranks,  and  in  every  family,  one  important  art  in 
housekeeping  is  to  make  what  remains  over  from  one  day's 
entertainment  contribute  to  the  elegance  or  plenty  of  the 
next  day's  repasts.  This  is  a  principle  understood  by  per- 
sons in  the  very  highest  ranks  of  society,  who  maintain 
the  most  splendid  and  expensive  establishments.  Their 
great  town-dinners  usually  follow  in  rapid  succession ;  one 
banquet  forming,  if  not  the  basis,  a  useful  auxiliary  to 
the  next.  But  as  this  has  been  elsewhere  recommended 
to  the  attention  of  the  reader,  it  is  almost  unnecessary  to 
repeat  here,  that  vegetables,  ragouts,  and  soups,  may  be  re^ 
warmed;  and  jellies  and  blancmange  re-m<ndded,  with 
little  deterioration  of  their  qualities.  Savoury  or  sweet 
patties,  potted  meats,  croquets^  rissoles,  vol-im-tfents^  fritters, 
tartlets,  &c.,  may  be  served  with  almost  no  cost,  where 
cookery  is  going  forward  on  a  large  scale.  In  the  French 
kitchen,  a  numerous  class  of  culinary  preparations,  called 
entrees  de  deseerte^  or  made-dishes  of  left  things,  are  served 
even  at  grand  dinners. 

At  dinners  of  any  pretension,  it  is  understood  that  the 

first  course  shall  consist  of  soups  and  fish,  removed  by 

boiled  poultry,  ham,  or  tongue,  roasts,  stews,  ^c;  and  of 

vegetables,  with  a  few  made-dishes,  or  eiUr^es^  as  ragouts, 

curries,  hashes,  cutlets,   patties,  fricandeaus^  &c.,  in  as 

great  variety  as  the  number  of  dishes  permits ;  as  a  white 

and  a  brown,  or  a  clear  and  a  stew  soup**   For  the  second 

course,  or  entremetSy  where  there  are  only  removes  and  not  a 

third,  roasted  poultry  or  game  at  the  top  and  bott<»n, 

with  dressed  vegetables,  omelets,  macaroni,  jellies,  creams, 

salads,  preserved  fruit,  and  all  sorts  of  sweet  things  and 

pastry,  are  employed,  —  endeavouring  to  give  an  article  of 

each  sort,  as  a  jeUy  and  a  cream,  as  will  be  exemplified 

in  the  bills  of  fare  subjoined.     This  is  a  more  sensible 

arrangement  than  three  courses^  which  are  attended  with 

so  much  additional    trouble    both  to    the    guests    and 

*  In  lome  noUe  private  eating^houEes,  it  is  now  customary  to  hand 
round  oysters  before  the  soup,  as  a  whet  or  preparative.  This  is  a 
Parisian  custom,  which  we  cannot  admire.  In  stylit^  modem  dinners, 
the  hors  d^eeuvres  and  flyrng-diskes  (cusiettes  tolantes)  appear  usually 
during  the  First  Cofurse,  before  the  removef,— although  latitude  is 
allowed  in  this  matter. 


BILLS  OP  7ASX.  63 

eeirants.    In  France,  where  the  iahle-doth  is  never  with* 
drawn,  the  dessert  forms  the  Third  Course. 

Bnt  whether  the  dinner  he  of  two  or  three  courses,  it  is 
managed  nearly  in  the  same  way  ;  and  for  the  advantage 
of  servants^  as  well  as  of  their  juvenile  employers,  a  few 
particulars  may  he  detailed.  In  the  centre,  there  is 
generally  some  ornamental  article,  as  an  epergne  with 
flowers,  real  or  artificial,  or  a  decorated  salad,  or  cold  raised 
game  pie.  [An  ornamental  stand,  containing  cruets  and 
pepper  dishes,  if  plainer,  is  equally  appropriate  for  a 
smidl  party.]  Two  dishes  of  fish,  dressed  in  difierent 
ways,  should  occupy  the  top  and  hottom  ;  and  two  soupa, 
a  white  and  a  hrown,  or  a  mild  and  a  high-seasoned,  are 
hest  disposed  on  each  side  of  the  centre-piece :  the  fish- 
sauces  are  placed  between  the  centre-piece  and  the  dish 
of  fish  to  which  each  is  appropriate ;  and  this,  with  the 
decanted  wines  drunk  during  dinner,  fonns  the  First 
Course*  When  there  are  rare  French  or  Rhenish  wines, 
they  are  placed  in  ihe  original  bottles,  uncorked,  (except 
champagne,*)  in  ornamented  wine-vases,  between  the 
centre-piece  and  the  top  and  bottom  dishes ;  or,  if  four 
kindsy  they  are  ranged  round  the  plateau.  If  only  one 
choice  bottle,  at  a  bachelor  Ute-d-tSte  dinner,  it  may  be 
placed  in  a  vase  in  the  centre. 

The  Second  Course^  if  there  are  three,  consists  of  roasts 
«M  stews  for  the  top  and  bottom ;  turkey  or  fowls,  or 
fricandeau,  or  ham  garnished,  or  tongue,  for  the  sides; 
with  small  made-dishes  for  the  comers,  served  in  covered 
dishes ;  as  palates,  stewed  giblets,  currie  of  any  kind, 
ragout  ov  fricassee  of  rabbits,  stewed  mushrooms,  &c.  &c« 
Two  sauce-tureens,  or  glasses  with  pickles,  or  very  small 
made-dishes,  may  be  placed  between  the  epergne  and  the 
top  and  bottom  dishes ;  vegetables  (assiettes  ffolantes)  on 
^he  side-table  are  handed  round.  If  the  epergne  is  taken 
away  with  this  course,  then  the  small  table-cloth  or  over- 
Zt^,  which  is  often  placed  across,  to  keep  the  cloth  neat  for 
the  third  course,  is  also  remeYed. 

The  Third  Qmrse  consists  of  game,  pastry,  confectionary, 

*  If  not  found  very  troublesome,  it  is  well  the  corks  be  left  in  all 
the  bottles : — i^t  least  they  must  be  returned  loosely.  A  genuine  gour- 
met detests  previous  uncorking  and  decanting. — H.  J. 


64  BILLS  OF  FABBi 

the  more  delicate  vegetables  and  salads  dressed  in  the  French 
way,  iced  paddings,  competes  of  fruit,  creams,  jellies,  &c. 

Water-bottles,  and  often  finger-glasses,  are  placed  at 
proper  intervals. 

Malt  liquors,  and  other  common  beverages,  are  called 
for ;  but  where  hock,  champagne,  &c.  are  served,  they  are 
usually  oflFered  round  between  the  courses.  When  the  Third 
Course  is  cleared  away,  cheese,  butter,  a  fresh  salad,  or 
sliced  cucumber,  are  usually  served,  in  respectable  English 
families,  who  do  not  affect  foreign  manners ;  and  the 
finger-glasses  precede  the  dessert.  At  maiiy  tables,  how- 
ever, of  good  fashion,  it  is  customary  merely  to  hand 
quickly  round  a  glass,  or  silver  vase  or  two,  filled  with 
simple  or  simply  perfumed  tepid  water,  made  by  the 
addition  of  a  little  rose  or  lavender  water,  or  a  home-made 
strained  infusion  of  rose  leaves  or  lavender  spikes.  Into 
this  water  each  guest  may  dip  the  comer  qf  his  napkin, 
and  with  this  (only  when  needful)  refresh  his  lips  and  the 
tips  of  his  fingers.  At  some  refined  tables,  an  antique  silver 
or  gilt  vase,  filled  with  perfumed  water,  and  furnished  with 
a  gilt  ladle,  is  placed  on  the  table,  from  which  each 
guest  supplies  himself  into  a  sort  of  china  plate  or^saucer 
fashioned  for  this  use.  This  is  quite  oriental,  and  a  decided 
improvement  on  the  finger-glasses.  Foreigners  of  the  old 
regime  cannot  reconcile  the  use  of  finger-glasses  with  the 
boasted  excessive  delicacy  of  the  domestic  and  personal 
habits  of  the  English  ;  yet  the  custom  is  now  adopted  even 
on  the  Continent ;  whence  again  some  of  our  young  fashion- 
ables and  veteran  men  of  travel  have  caught  the  filthy 
practice  of  eating  with  their  fingers ;  not  merely  salads 
and  cheese,  but  oysters,  devils,  macaroni,  &c.  in  this  dis- 
gusting trick  far  exceeding  their  French  and  Italian 
masters  ;  what  in  foreigners  is  an  unpleasant  habit,  being 
in  their  imitators  bad  taste,  if  not  deliberate  ill-breeding 
and  effrontery.  During  the  old  regime  the  French  moved 
from  table  to  the  ante-room  to  refresh  their  lips  and 
fingers  immediately  after  the  substantial  part  of  their 
repast.  Madame  the  Comtesse  de  Genlis  considered 
the  abandonment  of  this  practice,  and  the  introduction 
of  finger-glasses,  as  one  of  the  most  flagrant  innovations  of 
parvenu  manners. 


BILUS  OF  FARB.  6d 

The  Dessert  may  consist  merely  of  two  dishes  of  fine 
fruit  for  the  top  and  bottom ;  common  or  dried  fruits, 
or  filberts,  &c.  for  the  comers  or  sides,  and  a  cake  for  the 
middle,  with  ice-pails  in  warm  weather.  Liqueurs  are  at 
this  stage  handed  round  ;  and  the  wines  usually  drunk 
after  dinner  are  placed  decanted  on  the  table  along  with, 
the  dessert.  The  ice-paik  and  plates  are  removed  as  soon 
as  the  company  finish  their  ice.  Where  there  is  preserved 
ginger^  it  usually  follows  the  ices;  being  then  eaten  to 
heighten  to  the  palate  the  delicious  coolness  of  the  dessert 
wines.  This  may  all  be  better  understood  by  noting  the 
following  exact  arrangement  of  what  b  considered  a 
fashionable,  though  not  very  sumptuous,  English  dinner  of 
three  courses  and  a  dessert. 


A  Fashicnable  Dinner  of  Three  GourseSy  with 
Cheese-Course  mnd  Dessert, 

FIRST  COURSE.* 

Turbot  boiled. 
J-  ^  Lobster  Sauce.  -^ 

iS  -§  Wine  Vase.  s 


:§ 


►« 


d 


O  K 


«  fc 


Wine.         ;-  ®  Eper^ne.  ^  Wine. 


3 

s3  Wine  Vase. 


^ 


ca 


9> 

c 


.2  'S  Shrimp  Sauce. 


o 


Soles  Fried, 
or  dressed  two  Ways. 

*  The  table  may  receive  a  fuller  appearance  from  removes,  and 
greater  variety  of  nsh-sauceS)  if  wished  for ;  but  it  must  be  kept  in 
mind,  that  all  our  directions  rather  exceed  than  fall  short  of  the  proper; 
retrenchment  being  left  to  individual  discretion.  Besides  the  butler, 
who  has  his  bill  of  fare  before  him  on  the  side-board,  lady  hostesses 
sometimes  have  one  on  a  china  slate  to^  refresh  tlieir  memories.  This 
is  a  clumsy  device,  besides  making  a  toil  of  a  pleasure  to  the  presiding 
lady. 

B 


66 


BILI£  OF  PARK, 


BECOKI>   COURSE. 


Turkey  boiled  or  roasted  with  Truffles. 


0 


Sweetbreads. 


Wine. 


s 


Cutlets, 

or  Tendrons 

of  Veal. 


Stewed  Mushrooms. 
"Wine  Vase 

JEpergne. 

Wine  Vase. 

Venison  Sauce. 

Haunch  of  Venison 
or  Mutton. 


Currie  in 


Rioe  border.    ^ 


B 


Patties. 


Wine. 


Apricot  Jelly. 


CO 

9 


Tartlets. 


THIRD  COURSE.* 

Souffle. 

Sauce  Tureen. 

Macaroni  Pudding. 

Wine  Vase. 

Trifle  ornamented. 

Wine  Vase. 

Cranberry  Tart. 

Sauce  Tureen. 

Pheasant, 
or  other  Game,  roasted. 


Small  Pastry, 
or  Omelet. 


u 

-♦a 

aa 

o 

CO 

m 


Pine-apple  Cream. 


*  In  the  above  Cotjrse  the  jelly  and  the  cream  may  be  placed  at 
the  sides.  The  salad  and  a  dish  of  prawns  at  opposite  comers,  —  or 
asparagus,  pease,  or  any  nice  appropriate  yegetable  dishes,  dressed  d  la 
JFranfaise,  at  the  other  comers.  There  is  no  end  to  the  ways  in  which 
tables  may  be  varied. 


BILI^  07  FABB. 


er 


Directions  for  placing  the  Cheese,  &c.  after  Dinner.* 


2   • 


I 


British  Parmesan, 
or  Stilton,  on  a  napkin. 

^Cheese  Biscnits. 

Batter, 

in  forms,  slices,  or 

pats. 

Cheese  Rasks,  or  Toasts. 

Parmesan  rasped,  and 
in  a  ooTered  glass  dish. 


{Next  come  the  Finger-glastes,) 


^ 


»%^' 


^"^ 


.oO 


!i^' 


l9« 


.*^<« 


Rose  Souffle  Cakes. 


THE  DBSSERT. 

Lemon  Ice. 

Grapes. 
Sugar  Basin. 

Cut  Glasses. 

Savoy  Cake, 
on  an  elevated  Stand. 


V 


"8 
1 


/>«. 


V 


Wafers. 


% 


-V 


%. 


'»« 


Cut  Glasses. 
Water  Jag. 

« 

Melon. 
Raspberry  Ice.+ 


C^< 


e 


^ 


^^' 


*  See  another  way  of  setting  out  a  Cheese  Course,  p.  71,  or  there 
may  he  two  small  dishes  with  butter  on  each  side,  and  a  silver  bread- 
basket in  the  centre,  in  which  rusks  or  cheese  biscuits  are  served  on  a 
damask  or  fancy-netted  napkin,  which  it  is  ever  agreeable  to  see  under 
bread. 

i*  Ice  is  also  handed  round  before  the  dessert.  This  dessert  may  be 
made  more  full  by  a  few  small  dishes  of  wafers,  brandy-scrolls,  filberts, 
or  dried  small  fruit.  The  French  often  serve  cheese  ^lain  or  crated,  along 
with  a  plain  dessert  of  fresh  or  dried  fruits;  and  it  is  a  good  fashion. 


^  BILLS  or  FARK. 


BILLS  OF  FARE 
FOR  PLAIN  FAMILY  DINNERS. 


DINNERS  OF  FIVE  DISHES. 

Pease  Soup. 

Potatoes  browned  Apple  Dnmplingrs,  Mashed  Turnip 

below  the  Roast.  or  Plain  Fritters.  or  Picklet. 

Roast  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 


Haddocks  baked,  in  a  Potato  or  Paste  Border, 

Potatoes,  or  Mashed      Newmarket  Pudding.      Rice  or  Pickles. 
Turnip. 

Haricot,  Currie  Hash,  or  Grill, 
Of  the  Mutton  of  the  former  day. 


Knuckle  of  Veal  Ragout,  or  with  Bice, 

Parsnips.  A  Charlotte.  Potatoes,  or  Turkey 

or  other  beans. 

Roast  of  Pork  or  Pork  Chops.— fifa^^c  Sauce. 


Potatoes. 


Boiled  piece  of  Cod,  with  Oyster  Sauce, 
and  Crab-pie,  introduced  as  an  hors  d'ceuvre. 

Barley  Broth.  Carrots  or  Turnips. 

Scrag  of  Mutton, 
with  Caper  Sauce,  or  Parsley  and  Butter. 


Cod  Currie,  a  Fish-Pie  or  Fish  rechauffe,  of  the  Fish 

of  the  former  day. 

Scalloped  Oysters.  Rice-Pudding.        Mashed  Potatoes,  or 

dressed  Parsnips. 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef. 


BI£U  OF  FA&B.  69 

Boaiilii  gamiaked  witk  OjiiotM. 

Marrow  BonAa  ai>  &  Beef  Cecils,  of  the 

S^Id  pLd^^^^        Soup  of  the  BouiUi.    Roast  Bibs  of  the 
^  former  daj. 

Lamb  Catlets,  with  Cauliflower  or  Potatoes. 

Vegetablea  on  the  Side-TMe. 


Tota^e  of  Rice*  , 

(JSMHOM^Fish  IB  Brown  Saaoe.) 
Stewod  Celery.  Fmit  Pie.  Spiiafe. 

FiUet  of  Veal  stoiFed. 


Boiled  Fowl,  or  Frioaadeaii  of  Veal  <Ai  SorreL 
^^1^^.     New  EogUad  P«K»*e.      ^^^1^ 

Piekled  Pork  or  Salted  Beet 


Crimped  Cod. 

^rimp  Sauce* 

Pigeons  Ragout.  Soup.  Carrots  or  Turnips. 

Small  Round  of  Beef  with  Greens, 
or  Breast  of  Beef  a  la  Flamande. 


Skate, 
with  Caper  Sauce,  or  Pardey  and  Butter. 

^^iZt  Hotch-potch.  ^^^  - 

Loin  of  Veal,  Stuifed  and  Roasted. 


70  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Oood  Famify  Dinners  of  Sewn  Dishes,* 

Crimped  Salmon. 
Lobster  Sanoe. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  in 

fma//0Aap«8,or sliced  Mince  Pies  or  Rissolet, 

Cucnmber. 

Winter  Hotch-potch. 

(Remove — Apple-Pie,) 

Bubble  and  Squeak  of 
Oxford  Dumplings.  Veal  of  the  former  day. 

Pickles. 

Roast  of  Beef. 


Irish  Stew,  or  Harricot  of  Mutton. 
Chickens.  Vegetables. 

Fritters. 

Apple-Sauce.  ^  Tongue  on  Spinage, 

*^  or  a  Piece  of  Ham. 

Stubble  Goose.f 


Fried  Soles* 
Savoury  Patties.  Onion  Soup.  Salad. 

(Remove — A  Charlotte.) 
Macaroni.  Slietd  Cucumber,         Veal  Sweetbreads. 

Saddle  of  Mutton  Roasted. 


*  Dinners  may  be  served  in  two  courses  where  there  are  so  many 
good  dishes  ;  ana  where  there  is  a  hiffh-bred  cook  many  of  the  things 
may  be  served  en  croustades,  en  timhalles,  or  as  vol-au-ventg, 

*f  The  cook  must  not  forget  to  have  fried  or  glazed  onions  on  the  side- 
board, notwithstanding  the  apple-sauce  for  the  goose. — Redgill. 


.Bills  of  fare.  71 

Scotch  Fish  and  Sauce. 

(Eemove — Cutlets  k  Chingara.) 

Beetroot.  Apple-Puffi. 

Marrow-Puddiog. 

Tartlets  or  Sweet  Patties.  Mashed  Tamip  or  Green  Pease. 

Gigot  of  Mutton  Boiled,  and  Caper  Sauce. 
(Remow — Hoast  Ducks.) 

A  Small  Dinner  in  Courses^  ioith  Destert^  S^ 

FIBST  COUBSB. 

Mock  Turtle-Soup. 

Turbot* 

Oyster,  Lobster,  or  Fennel  Sauce,  and  Cucumber  sliced  thick,  dis- 
posed either  on  the  Table  or  Side-board;  and  the  Fish  and  Soup, 
with  the  Sauces  and  Wines,  form  the  whole  of  the  Course. 


SBCOND  C0UB8B. 

Pheasant. 


Twnips  shaped  like  Pears,  ^^^  ^^^ 

and  glazed  d  la  Fran^atte,  ^^    ^^^m-o. 

Haunch  of  Mountain  Mutton. 


THIRB  COtJBSB. 

Macaroni, 
Apricot  Tart.  Vanilla  Cream.  Orange  Jellj. 

Omelet  Souffle. 


CHBESE-COUBSB* 

Stilton  Cheese,  on  a  napkin. 

Butter  in  Iw,  g^       Breadbasket.  ^"^^  ^?^«1  S^«^"*"' 

or  Moulded.  o"Tc*r  x^i^«uu«o  ^v.         ^^  Sliced  Roll. 

A  Cream  Cheese,  or  grated  Parmesan, 
in  a  covered  cut-glass  dish. 


72 


BILLS  OP  FARE. 


Dinners  of  Two  Courses,  Four  and  Five,*  for  Family- 

Dinners  or  Small  Parties* 

FIRST  COURSE. 

Pike,  Carp,  or  Eels,  baked. 

Dutch  Sauce.  ^ 

Jemsalem  Artichokes.  Mashed  Tamipt. 

Caper  Sauoe. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. 


YouDg  Pease. 


SBCOND  COURSE. 

Veal  Cutlets  in  Vol-au-vent, 

Ratifia  Cream.  Dressed  Lobster. 

Duoklings. 


Walnuts. 


PLAIN  DB8SSRT.+ 

Rcfnnets. 
Cut  Rummer. 

Water  Jug. 

Cut  Rummer. 

The  Wines. 

Pears. 


Spanish  Nuts, 
or  Olives. 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Hare-Soup. 

(i2«mo«e— Fillets  of  Tnrbot.) 

j$tewed  Cucumber.  Dressed  Turnip. 

Roast  Pig,  or  Mutton  as  Parson's  Venison. 


*  Dinners  here  given  in  two  may  in  general  have  the  same  number 
of  dishes  served  in  three  courses,  if  wished.  Spirit-lamps  of  neat  form 
sometimes  very  conveniently  occupy  the  sides,  at  a  large  dinner,  or  the 
comers  MfiU-ups,  Devils,  and  hot  moist  zdsts,  should  always  be  served 
over  lamps. 

*t*  Zests  put  down  at  bachelor  dinners  after  the  Dessert  is  removed, 
are  fiercely-hot  deviled  Poultry  and  Game  ;  Anchovy  Toasts,  An- 
chovies, Caviare,  Olives,  Deviled  Biscuit,  Oysters,  Grated  Meat,  &c. 
or,  after  a  long  interval,  JRere-Svpper  Articles,  ^ahoeinff-homSf  as  our 
jovial  ancestors  called  them,  from  their  drawing  on  another  bottle,)  u 
Salmis,  Potted  Meats,  Potted  Shrimps,  &c 


BILLS  OP  FUUU  73 

SBCOHTD  COURSE. 

Sweeibraftds  firioasssed. 
Ginger  Cream.  Calf's*  Feet  Jelly 

Tourte,  or  Roasted  Pheasant,  or  Game  of  any  kind. 


FIRST  OOURSB. 

Civet  of  Hare  as  Soup, 
e*       J  n-vi  L  Saronry  Patties, 

Stewed  Giblets.  or  Calf  s  Ears. 

Breast  of  Mutton  grilled. 

Vegetables  on  the  Side-Table. 


SBCOND  COUBSB, 

Small  Ham,  glazed  and  ornamented, 

Aspangtts,  Victoria  Pudding,  stuwed  CeWr 

with  Butter  Sauce.       or  Gateau  de  Ris.  2>«ewea  ueiery. 

Small  Turkey  roasted. 
Good  Dinners  of  Seven  Dishes — Two  Courses, 

FIRST  GOUBSS.* 

Oyster-Soup. 
(JUmope — Slices  of  Salmon  with  Sauce  Matelote.+) 
Small  Frioandeau  with  rp^„«,i. 

Spinage,  Sorrel,  or  c-.  n  !P  '«i      a 

Tomato  Sauce.  ^'  S°»*^  ^""  «^^- 

Ducks  in  Ragout.  Partridge  Pie.  MuJtoXtiets, 

Stewed  half  Rump  or  Fillet  of  Beef. 


SBCOND  COVBSB. 

Moor  Game. 

Dressed  Lobster.  Orange  Sauce.  Macaroni. 

Lemon  Cream. 

Cauliflower  Apricot  or  Marmalade 

in  White  Sauce.  Mint  Sauce.  Tart,  or  Pudding. 

Fore  Quarter  of  Lamb  roasted. 

*  Mauv  will  prefer  this  dinner  served  in  Three  Courses.  In  Three 
it  will  Btul  for  a  small  par<^  be  a  very  plentiful  dinner. 

f  Sliced  Cucumber  (which  is  eaten  with  Salmon,  Cod,  &c.)  on  the 
side-board,  and  also  other  vegetables. 


u 


BILLS  OF  FAEE« 


FIRST  COURSE. 

Fish.— PiJfc«,  a  la  Itaao  Walton, 
Sauce. 

or  Veal  Oliyes.  Chicken  and  Ham  Patties. 

Giblet  Soup, 
or  Crecy-Soup» 
Cod-Sounds,  Curried  Rabbit  in 

fried  in  Batter.  Sauce.  Casserole  of  Rice. 

Roast  Goose. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Veal  Sweetbreads. 
Snowballs,  or  Castle  .  .^,   „  ^^ 

Pudding,  Asparagus,  with  Butter. 

Trifle,  or  Ornamented  Cake. 
Omelet.  Cheesecakes. 

Roasted  Birds* 


FIRST  COURSE. 

MuUagatawny  Soup. 

{Remove — Dressed  Fish.) 

Macaroni  Pudding.  Sauce.  Savoury  Patties. 

Plateau* 
Potato-Balls,  Currie  of  Chickens 

or  Jerusalem  Artichokes.  in  Rice  Casserole. 

Sauce. 
Roast  Pig. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Green  Pease. 

Custards  in  Glasses. 

Vegetable  Marrow.  Jelly,  with  Apricots. 

Plateau. 

Cranberry  Tart.  n  •    m  Omelet,  or  (Eufs 

Cream  in  Glasses.  podhis  au  jus. 

Ducklings,  or  Game. 

Dinner  (^Nine  Dishes, 

FIRST  COURSE. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 
Dressed  Turnip.  Sauce.  Boiled  Rice. 

Boiled  Turkey  Poult.        Curried  Fish.  Ham  glazed. 

Palates.  Sauce.  Brocoli. 

Haunch  of  Mutton  Roasted. 


.BILLS  OF  FABK. 


V5 


Small  Pastry. 

French  Beans. 

Ginger 
or  Lemon  Cream. 


SECOND  COUBSB.* 

Black  Cock. 
Sweet  Sandwiches. 

Trifle. 

Vol-an-Tent 
of  Fruit. 

Hashed  Hare, 
or  Venison. 


CalTs  Feet  Jelly. 
Lobster  Salad. 

Meringles, 


Dinner  of  Eleven  Dishes. 

FIBST  OOUBSE. 

White  Soup, — d  la  Heine* 
Stewed  Pigeons.        {Remove— Fish.) 

Oyster  Patties, 
'ongne  glazed.  Plateau. 

Lobster  Patties. 

Mutton  Rumps  and  Kidneys, 
or  Beef  Palates. 

Mullagatawny. 
{Remove — Loin  of  Veal,  Vegetables  handed  round.) 


Lamb  Chops  and 
Cucumbers. 


Boiled  Chickens. 


Sweetbreads  grilled. 


SECOND  COtJBSB. 

Iced-cake  with  Preserved  Fruits. 
Wine  Jelly.  Dressed  Lobster. 

Small  Pastry. 
Stewed  Mushrooms.  Plateau.  Buttered  Apples. 

Small  Pastry. 

Pistachio  Cream. 


Prawns  in  Jelly, 
or  Plain. 


Partridges  Roasted. 


*  If  the  party  is  rather  large,  and  the  table  long,  the  same  number 
of  expensive  disheB  may  do ;  but  they  must  be  arranged  down  the 
middle,  and  at  the  sides,  while  a  few  trifling  articles  of  pastry  fill  up 
the  comers. 


76  BIUJ  OF  FiLRK. 

Bill  of  Fare  far  St.  Andren^s  Da^y  Burtu^  ClvhSy  and 
Curler^ y  Golfers\  or  (Aher  Scottish  National  Dinners, 

FIRST  OOUBSE. 

Friar's  Chicken,  or  Scotch  Brown,  Leek,  or  Hare  Soap. 
(Remove  —  Braised  Tnrkey,) 

^""^Durk?^*  Potted  Game.  Minced  CoUops. 

Sal*  Cod,  Haggis.  n«-«««j  cv-*^ 

with  Egg  Sauce.      (/ZeukW-CMcken  Pie.)     ^""'P®**  ^"^• 

Smoked  Tongue.  White'^plTciLee. 

Salt  Caithness  Goose,  or  Solan  doose. 

Sheep's  Head  Broth. 

(1.  JRemore  —  Twfi  Sheep's  Heads  and  Trotters.) 
(2.  Bemove  —  Haunch  of  Venison  or  Mutton,  (with 
Wine  Sauce  and  Currant  Jelly,)  or  a  Salted  Round  with  Greens. 


SECOND  COURSE. 

Roast  Fowls,  with  drappit  "Egg,  or 
CalTs  Head  dressed. 

Buttered  Partans.  Small  Pastry.  Stewed  Onions. 

Car.  Feet  JeUy.      i^^^^^'JA^l      Blancmnge. 

Apple-puddings  in  skins.    Small  Pastry.       Plum-Damas  Pie. 
Two  Blackcocks,  or  Three  Ptarmigan. 


BILU5  OF  FABX. 


77 


PubUe  Dinner  of  Tioo  Ctmnes,  o/Jrqm  Tkirfy-ftve  to  Forty 
Dishes,  arranged  in  the  French  Style* 

•  FIBST  OOTJBSE. 

Were  this  extended  to  doable  the  number,  the  dishes  are  to  be 
extended  in  the  same  manner,  and  large  joints  introduced 
accordingly.  The  centres  marked  by  the  asterisks  may  haTe 
another  remove  according  to  circumstances,  and  different  sauces 
may  be  added.  This  ought  to  be  attended  to  throughout  the 
courses. 

Rice  Soup. 

(i.  Remove — Turbot.^ 

(2.  Remove — Turkey.) 

Lobster  Sauce. 


Hot  Sayoury  Pie. 


Oyster  Patties. 


Veal  Sweetbreads. 


Vegetable  Pie. 

Beef  Palates. 

Fricassee  of  Chickens. 
Veal  Cutlets. 


I 


Cold  Ham  Pie, 
decorated. 


5 


Soles^ 
a  la  RavtgoU. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 
Mutton  Cutlets, 
a  la  Soubiae. 


Partridge  Salmi. 

Fowl  Pie,  or 

Ckartretue  d*unf 

ScUpi^on  de  Volaille. 

Truffles. 

Chiekens, 
with  Cueumber$, 

Fillets  of  Mackerel, 
a  la  MaUre  d*H6uL 


i 


Mutton, 
a  la  Ste.  Menehould. 

Ducklings  Ragout. 
Pork  Cutlets. 


Game  Pie,  decorated. 
Fowl  or 

Capon  Caper  and  Currant  Jelly         Mixed  Ragout. 

aux  huitret.  Sauces. 

Fillets  of  Partridges,  Boudins, 

a  la  Portugaite,  de  Richelieu  au  Veloute. 

Patties.  Ox-tail  Soup.      Larks,  in  Vol-au^vent. 

(1.  Remove — Salmon.    2.  Haunch  of  Venison.) 

i*  In  arranging  thirteen  dishes  upon  one  side,  attention  must  be  had 
to  centres,  which  may  be  formed  by  larger  or  different-shaped  dishes : 
attention  must  also  be  paid  to  their  contents. 


78  BILLS  OF  VA.W&, 

SECOND  COURSE  OF  FROM  THIRTY-FIVE  TO  FORTY  COVERS. 

Partridge  Pie. 
(Removed  by  a  Cake.) 
Spinage  in  Crust  Border.  Jelly  of  Oranges. 

Smoked  Tongue. 


Chickens 
with  White  Sauce. 


Green  Pease, 
dressed. 


Apples  in  Rice. 

Cauliflower  or  Sea  Kale,      Asparagus, 
with  Butter.  with  Butter. 


Stuffed  Cucumbers. 

Bice  Fritters. 


Blancmange, 
in  small  glasses. 


Artichokes, 
en  Canapes, 


Glazed  Ham. 
(Remove — Souffle.) 


Cherry  Fritters. 

Tartlets. 

Olives. 

Salad  Herbs. 

Rabbits. 

ll 

Poached  Eggs 
in  Gravy. 

Perches  au  vin. 

alDl 
jrysta 

Fried  Soles. 

Stewed  Lettuce,  or 

Laitues  cL 

Silver, 
s  and  Cr] 
actions,  o; 
Flowers. 

Young  Pease. 

VEspagnole, 

S 

1    i  1 
III 

"^      a 

Plateau  of 

ered  with  Vasei 

Flowers,  Confi 

Fndts  and  ] 

ullet  in  Aspic 
Jelly. 

Remove — 

Savoy  Cake. 

Young  Beans. 

Haricots, 
h  la  Lyonaise, 

Smelts. 

tob< 
fiUed 

Small  Pigeons. 

s 

Small  Biscuits. 

Ramakins. 

Salad  Herbs. 

Olives. 

BIIX8  OV  FARE. 


70 


Nectarines. 


t 

s 


I  i 


Apples. 


DESSERT. 

Preseryed  Pine  Apple. 
Preserved  Oranges. 

Olites. 


Cake  Ornamented, 
on  a  Silver  Stand. 


Olives. 

Preserved  Citrons. 
Melon  Preserved. 


Cherries. 


S 


13 


3 

SB 

3 


Peaches. 


This  dessert,  which  by  some  may  be  reckoned  scanty,  by  others 
profuse,  and  which  we  submit  rather  than  recommend,  may,  at 
little  expense,  be  enlarged  by  four  small  dishes,  consisting  of 
Macaroons,  White  Currants,  Walnuts,  Filberts,  Wafers,  &c.  &c. 
nor  does  it  preclude  Ices  and  Preserved  Ginger. 


Apricots. 
Almond  Biscuits. 


DESSERT   OF  FRESH  FRUIT. 

Grapes. 
Sugar. 

Cream. 


Ked  Gooseberries. 


Sugar. 
Strawberries. 


White  Curranist 

Macaroons. 
Nectarines. 


Though  a  dinner  divided  into  courses  is  to  be  recommended, 
both  for  elegance  and  comfort,  there  are  public  occasions  when 
convenience  and  economy  make  it  necessary  to  place  almost  all 
the  dishes  at  once.  To  arrange  them  so  as  best  to  distribute  the 
several  things  served  up,  is  all  that  a  dinner  of  this  substantial 
kind  admits  of.  The  soups  may  be  placed  either  at  the  top  and 
bottom  or  at  the  sides  of  the  table;  though,  when  there  are  large 
dishes  of  fish,  the  latter  arrangement  seems  the  more  eligible. 
At  a  very  long  table  four  soups  may  be  placed  at  the  top,  bottom, 
and  sides,  and  the  four  comers  be  each  ftirnished  with  a  dish  of 
fish  ;  in  which  case  the  stews,  boils,  and  roasts,  are  to  be  placed 
in  change  for  the  soups.  Such  an  arrangement  will  better  ensure 
to  each  guest  a  ready  supply.  The  French  call  this  sort  of  dinner 
an  AmlAgu ; — at  such  dinners  they  remove  only  the  soups  to  giv9 
place  to  the  roasts,  removes,  and  stews. 


80 


COMPANY  SUPPERS. 

Thb  ingenuity  of  the  genteel  economist  is  as  often  taxed 
to  contrive  supper  things  as  in  arranging  dinners,  which 
admit  of  less  temporizing.  Economy,  good  taste,  and 
neatness,  can  however  do  much,  even  with  slender  means, 
where  the  chief  organ  to  be  propitiated  is  the  eye  ;  for 
the  lateness  of  modern  dinner-hours  has  now,  almost  uni- 
versally, changed  suppers  from  a  solid  meal  into  a  light 
showy  refreshment. 

It  is  said  that  ladies  are  the  best  critics  in  suppers,  while 
gentlemen  are  better  qualified  to  decide  on  the  more  sub- 
stantial business  of  the  dinner*table.  Ladies  are  unques- 
tionably  more  conversant  with  the  things  on  which  the 
elegance  of  a  supper  depends,  —  namely,  the  beautiful 
shapes  and  arrangement  of  china,  glass,  linen,  fruits,  foliage, 
flowers,  colours,  lights,  oraamental  confectionary,  and  all 
the  other  natural  and  artificial  embellishments  of  the  table. 
Artieles,  so  beautiful  in  themselves,  cannot  fail,  if  taste- 
fully disposed,  to  gratify  the  eye,  however  slender  the 
repast  with  which  they  are  intermixed. 

When  a  formal  substantial  supper  is  set  out,  the  prin- 
cipal dishes  are  understood  to  be  roasted  game  or  poultry, 
cold  meats  sliced,  liam,  tongue,  collared  and  potted  things, 
grated  beef,  Bologna  sausage,  Dutch  herring,  kipper,  highly- 
seasoned  pies  of  game,  &c.  &c.  with  occasionally  soup  — 
an  addition  to  modern  suppers  which,  after  the  heat  and 
fatigue  of  a  ball-room,  or  large  party,  is  found  peculiarly 
grateful  and  restorative.  Minced  white  meats,  lobsters, 
oysters,  collared  eels,  and  crawfish  dressed  in  various 
forms  ;  sago,  rice,  the  more  delicate  vegetables,  poached 
eggs,  scalloped  potatoes,  are  all  suitable  articles  of  the 
BoUd  kind.  To  these  are  added,  ices,  cakes,  tarts,  possets, 
creams,  jellies  in  glasses  or  shapes,  custards,  preserved  or 
dried  fruits,  pancakes,  fritters,  pufiis,  tartlets,  grated  cheese, 
butter  in  little  shapes,  sandwiches  ;  and  the  catalogue  of 


SUPPERS,  81 

the  more  stimulating  dishes,  as  anchovy  toasts,  grilled  bones, 
Welsh,  English,  and  Scotch  rabbits,  roasted  onions,  sal- 
magundi,  smoked  sausages  sliced,  many  of  the  things  the 
French  nan^  hors  d^oeuvres,  and  those  other  preparations 
which  are  best  adapted  to  what  among  ancient  bon-vivants 
was  called  the  rere-supper^  or  **  supper  next  morning." 

A  supper  table  should  neither  be  too  much  crowded  nor 
too  much  scattered  and  broken  with  minute  dishes.  Any 
larder  moderately  stored  will  furnish  a  few  substantial 
articles  for  supper  on  an  emergency ;  and  a  few  sweet 
things  readily  prepared,  or  purchased,  with  patties,  shell- 
fish, and  fruits,  will  do  the  rest,  if  the  effect  of  contrasted 
colours,  flavours,  and  forms,  be  understood ;  and  that  light 
and  graceful  disposition  of  trifles  which  is  the  chief  art 
in  setting  off  such  entertainments.  Where  small  apart- 
ments, and  crowded  parties  introduce  the  custom  of  standing 
suppers,  the  same  cold  dishes  are  suitable,  served  on  high 
tables,  and  eaten  on  one's  knee,  or  standing. 

French  wines  have  become   an   article  of  ambitious 

display  at  fashionable  suppers,  even  in  families   of   the 

middle  rank.     Where  they  can  be  afforded  in  excellence 

'  and  variety,  nothing  can  be  more  appropriate  to  a  light, 

showy,  exhilarating  repast.* 


DES  D^EUNERS  A   LA   FOUBCHETTB.f 

That  change   of  manners  which  has  introduced  late 
dinners,  and  superseded  hot  suppers,  has  very  much  im- 

*  Solid  supper  articles  will  generally  answer  for  luncheons  or  com- 
foriabU  collations — and  for  that  refreshment  aflfectedly  termed  Tiffin. 

i  THE  DEJUBNER  A  LA  FOURCHETTE. 

AN  ODB. 

i 

There  are  the  sausages,  there  are  the  eggs. 
And  there  the  chickens  with  close-fitted  legs. 
And  there  is  a  bottle  of  brandy. 
And  there  's  some  of  the  best  sugar-candy, 
Wliich  is  better  than  sugar  for  coffee. 
There  are  slices  from  gOMod  ham  cut  off, — he 
Who  cut  them  was  but  an  indifferent  carver. 
He  wanted  the  dehcate  hand  of  a  barber. 

And  there  is  a  dish 

Buttered  over  I  and  fish,  trout,  and  char 
Sleeping  are 

The  smooth  ice-Iilce  surface  over, 
There's  a  pie  made  of  veal,  one  of  widgeons, 
And  there  's  one  of  ham  mixed  with  pigeons. 


82  SUPPJERS. 

proved  the  modem  breakfast.  Besides  the  ordinary 
articles  of  eggs,  broiled  fish,  pickled  herrings,  Sardinias, 
Finnan  haddocks,  collared  eels,  beef,  mutton,  and  goat 
hams,  vein-deer's  and  beef  tongnes,  sausages,  potted  meats, 
cold  pies  of  game,  &c.  &c.  a  few  stimulating,  hot,  dressed 
dishes  are,  by  a  sort  of  tacit  prescription,  set  especially 
apart  for  the  dejeuner  d  lafourchette  of  the  gourmand  and 
the  sportsman.  Of  this  number  are  broiled  kidneys,  calf  s 
and  lamb's  liver  fried  with  fine  herbs,  mutton  cutlets  d 
la  Venetienne^  Oxford  Jbhn^  and  many  kinds  of  broiled 
and  fried  fish,  and  other  piquatUy  and  yet  solid  prepara- 
tions. Receipts  for  these  stimulating  preparations  of 
poultry,  game,  &c.  will  be  found  under  the  proper  heads. 
In  France,  where  it  is  the  practice  to  take  a  cup  of  coffee 
either  in  bed,  or  in  the  bed-chamber  the  moment  of  rising, 
the  breakfast,  later  than  with  us,  is  a  sort  of  luncheon,  or 
lighter  dinner,  but  served  sans  eeremanie,  and  usually  with- 
out a  tablecloth  ;  cold  and  hot  dishes  are  served,  the  repast 
often  beginning  with  oysters,  and  ending  with  a  dessert  of 
the  fruits  in  season, with  cofiee,  tea,  and  chocolate,  and  wines 
of  course.  When  the  dejeuner  d  la/aurcheete  is  in  Eng- 
land an  entertainment  for  company,  the  articles  provided, 
with  the  addition  of  tea,  coffee,  chocolate,  and  all  kinds 
of  breakfast  bread,  &c.  do  not  materially  differ  from  those 
of  a  fashionable  supper,  ^nd  it  is  served  in  two  courses. 
The  following  is  an  example  :  •— - 


DBJECNEB  A  LA  POUBCHRITE,  83 

Marriage,  Christening,  or  Public  Brtakfaat,  a  tafourchette. 

Te»  Um. 

Lemon  Cakas. 

Potted  SaJmon  ti„„„  :„  t„.  H»m  ia 

Partridgee.  Cuamel  Baaket  of  Bon-booB,  Potted 

Perigord.  contaiaiog  Hottoes,  &c.  .  Char. 

PreserTed  Anchory 

Ginger.  Batter. 

Cingei'  CrMun.  Freseired  Pine,  melon,      Strawberr;  Jellf. 

or  Cnonmber. 
PaatrjSu)diTichei,nitb 
Marinalade,  Jams,  &c. 


Heringlei. 


s 

J 

ri 

i 

H 

1 

SS.S  " 

utleCs.  Preeerred  Onknges,  or 

Weet  India  Fraita. 

Almond  Batter, 

>r  piece  of  Honeycomb. 


Potted  Pigooni. 
Tongae  in 

JeUy. 


Perfumed  Biscuit. 

Preeerred 
GreenfBcef. 
CoSbe  Cream. 

Potted  Iiobeter. 

Turkey  in 

Jelly. 


Bnlter  in  Ice. 

Orange-flower  cakea. 

Coffee  Um. 

N.B. — Cr«am  and  Snnu,  ia  cut  zlau  jnn  and  diibo,  may  be  pre- 
nted  ID  proper  places.  Qams  and  lobster  >Jadi  nu,;  mala  put  or  tbe 


tbeir  pUcB. 

and  also  Liqueon.    Thoao  nee 

rolls,  mafliDs,  cutlets,  oggg,  &f. 

BrtidH  above,  -with  the  iddltion  of  fiesh  finite,  pastry,  preHivee,  and 

more  wines  and  liqneara,  will  afford  an  elegunt  cold  colktion.    At  the 

dijeaner  of  the  Bportsnuui,  the  tea  and  coffee  are  not  expect«d  to  make 

their  appearance  till  the  solidfl,  namely,  the  broiled  kidneys,  Gsh,  Bteaks. 


PART  SECOND. 


CHAPTER  I. 

BOILING  AXD  STEAMING. 


in  a  MeditemmoMi  sea  of  bnwis  f 

Spanisfi  Curate. 

eaSlV'T'i.^T^''  ""*  **  ^'^^  '"^*"*«'1>  «  certainly  tlie 

Often  the  worst  performed.    After  what  has  been  s^id  in 
the  Introduction,  we  would  disdain  to  waste  words  ^  tl^^ 

b«  told,  that  order,  arrangement,  thorough-goins  cleani! 
ness,  and  neatness  all  but  finical,  is  indispensabk  fn  thT." 
in  every  otlier  bwnch  of  Cookery.    TaK  ft  L    ^^.t  T 
tlien,  Uiftt  the  fire  burns  clear   tli«t  tK.  f   -X  .^*°***'' 
B«^l.t.  U.at  the  pots  and     ew-pan    of  ctf       ''•'"'''"^ 
forence  to  coppe?,  (the  cCl^ZlJl  of  Zh  ' '"?  ^'': 
the  saucepans  of  England  and  iJ^fLf  !      """^  '""^ 
clean,  well-tinned,  and  covered  wiWi       i'f.?'""^''^ ''^^' 
p..cced  with  a  fe;  generals  ^f.^t'""'^  "''^  - 

All  meat,  whether  fresh  or  sAltL       ^'  . 
best  put  in  with  cold  ZV    fTl  T^'^  f  ^'^'^'  '« 
the  water  may  be  a  little  hi.'*  /     f"T^  *""  "^^'^  ^^^t^, 

when  there  is  danger  ofUf-J  ^^  '"'  '^*^<^  ">«** 

ing  slowly  to  boU  VL.  ^««hen.ng  over  much  in  corn- 
whitens  ti^rmeai  a^d  fl^-^'f  °^.'"^**"«' P'»»P«.  «>«d 
scum,  on  the^rtlvd  of  ^S^the'^L  ?''"""  ^''^ 
beauty  of  siup  and  boiled  meat\„  l^°t''"f'''  '^  "^'^  «« 
facilitates  the  Vatio^^oHt  Lr'cSj;  watl; 


(JHAP.  I, — BOILING.  85 

'wKen  the  first  thick  scum  rises ;  take  the  pot  from 
the  fire,  if  necessary,  to  remove  the  scum  completely; 
throw  in  a  little  cold  water,  which  will  check  the 
hoiling  and  throw  up  what  scum  remains.—  This  is 
the  first  step  by  which  Soups,  GravieSy  and  Sauces  are  best 
cleared  and  refined*  —  When  the  skimmed  pot  must  he 
ekedy  let  it  he  with  hoiling  water.  Milk,  and  floured  cloths 
as  wrappers,  are  often  employed  in  hoiling  white  meats 
and  poultry,  to  make  them  look  whiter.  The  practice  is 
questionahle.  Soaking  in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  or, 
according  to  circumstances,  hlanchingy  careful  skimming, 
and  slow  hoiling,  especially  at  first,  are  equal  to  any  other 
method.  Yet  a  leg  of  mutton,  or  fowls,  may  sometimes, 
with  advantage,  he  hoiled  in  a  floured  oloth.  No  certain 
rule  can  he  given  for  the  length  of  time  necessary  to  hoil 
meat  or  fish.  Dried  tongues,  for  example,  or  hams,  will 
take  douhle  the  time  to  simmer  which  will  hoil  a  fresh  leg 
of  mutton  ;  and,  again,  these  will  difi^er  from  each  other, 
from  hardness,  while  a  piece  of  pork,  though  a  little  salted, 
will  take  longer  to  boil  than  either  veal  or  lamb.  Of 
all  meat  the  hind-quarter,  from  the  solid  and  compact 
texture  of  the  fibre,  will  require  longer  boiling  or  simmer- 
ing than  the  fore-quarter.  The  state  of  the  weather,  so 
important  in  roasting,  less  afl^ects  things  that  are  boiled. 
As  a  general  rule,  liable  however  to  many  exceptions, 
from  15  to  25  minutes  of  time,  and  a  quart  of  water,  (less 
where  strong  soup  is  wanted,)  is  allowed  by  cooks  to  the 
pound  of  fresh  meat ;  and  from  25  to  do  minutes  for  salted 
meat,  with  a  fourth  more  water.*  But  no  length  of  boil- 
ing will  ever  make  dried  meats  fit  to  be  eaten,  without 
suflicient  previous  soaking.  This  is  emphatically  true  of 
goat  and  pork  hams,  rein-deer  tongues,  dried  fish,  &c. 
Capital  blunders  are  often  performed  in  this  department ; 
and  provisions  which  excel  all  others  for  relishes,  break- 
fasts, and  luncheons,  are  made  good  for  nothing  but  to 

*  There  is  palpable  absurdity  in  this  universal  culinary  rule.  A  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  will  not  be  nearly  enough  of  time  to  boil  one  pound  of 
meat,  nor  a  half  hour  to  boil  two,  still  less  three  quarters  of  an  hour  for 
three  pounds.  But,  again,  twelve  hours^  boiling  would  destroy  forty-* 
eight  pounds.  It  must  be  kept  in  mind  that  large  joints  expose  corre- 
sponding surfaces  to  heat,  whether  in  pots  or  on  spits. 


86  CHAP.  I. — ^BOILING. 

try  the  temper,  and  break  the  teeth  of  the  eater,  who 
might  as  well  diet  upon  ''  spur  leather  whang."  Smoked 
and  dried  meats  and  dried  fish  sometimes  require  to  be 
soaked  from  one  hour  to  four  or  five  days,  changing  the 
water  often ;  or,  what  is  better,  where  there  is  a  run  of 
fresh  water,  steeping  the  meat  in  it,  or  in  the  trough  of  a 
pump.  In  some  circumstances,  salted  or  spiced  meat 
should  be  left  to  soak  for  hours  in  the  liquor  in  which  it 
was  boiled.  Some  good  cooks  like  the  subsequent  steep 
better  than  much  previous  soaking. 

Meat  must  have  time  to  imbibe  salt ;  but  frequent  rub- 
bing and  a  warm  temperature  will  hasten  the  process.— 
In  brief,  well- tinned  clean  pots, — thick  in  the  bottom  to 
aid  in  maintaining  an  equal  temperature,  —  a  clear  fire, 
well  washed,  and  if  salt,  soaked  viands,  gentle  boiling,  and 
most  careful  skimming,  are  all  the  rules  that  can  be  given 
to  ensure  well-dressed  boiled  dishes;  for  the  length  of 
time  in  previous  soaking,  and  subsequent  boiling,  or  rather 
simmering,  must  in  almost  every  case  be  determined  by 
the  size,  the  condition,  and  the  nature  of  the  provisions.— 
Oftj.  What  goes  under  ike  general  name  of  pot-liquor, 
particularly  that  in  which  fresh  meat  or  poultry  has  been 
boiled,  may  be  applied  to  many  useful  purposes,  for  which 
directions  will  be  given. 

Professed  cooks,  and  works  which  treat  of  Gastronomy, 
uniformly  enter  a  protest  against  any  sort  of  vegetables 
being  boiled  with  meat  to  be  served  at  table,  except 
carrots,  —  a  rule  this  which  the  Cleikum  Club  thought 
more  honoured  in  the  breach  than  the  observance.  Watery 
vegetables,  boiled  in  water  and  served  in  wateriness,  find 
no  favour  in  the  French  kitchen.  Common  sense,  and 
indeed  common  practice,  discards  them. 

There  is  an  adaptation,  a  natural  affinity,  between 
certain  vegetables  and  roots,  and  certain  pieces  and  kinds 
of  meat.  A  cook  who  would  excel  in  her  profession, 
ought,  day  and  night,  to  study  this  doctrine  of  coherence 
and  natural  affinity.  Who  would  dissever  from  the  round 
of  salted  beef,  the  carrots,  greens,  or  cabbage,  which  be- 
come part  and  parcel  of  it  as  soon  as  it  reaches  the  pot  ? 
If,  however,  from  reasons  of  economy,  it  is  wished  to  pre- 


CHAP.  I. — STEAMINO.  87 

serve  the  liquor  for  other  purposes,  a  quautity  of  it  may 
1^6  put  into  a  separate  vessel  and  the  greens  boiled  there. 
The  pot  may  have  the  top-fat  taken  off  to  enrich  the 
water  in  which  the  greens  are  boiled,  without  any  loss  of 
pot-liquor  for  soup ;  and  the  cook's  objection,  that  green 
vegetables  spoil  the  meat,  may  be  thus  obviated. 

Salted  or  spiced  bee/,  with  suitable  roots  and  vegetables, 
is  one  of  those  cut-and-come-again  family  dishes,  which, 
from  November  till  March,  every  sensible  man  hails  with 
pleasure,  whether  on  his  own  or  his  friend's  table.  To 
dress  it  in  the  best  manner  is  therefore  well  worth  the 
attention  of  the  cook,  the  economist,  and  the  judicious 
epicure. — See  Salting, 

Steaminff.^^In  large  families  and  large  establishments, 
steaming  is  found  a  very  convenient  way  of  preparing 
food  ;  and  to  a  limited  extent  it  is  useful  and  practicable  in 
every  kitchen,  for  small  steamers  may  be  attached  to  any 
range ;  and  at  all  events  every  body  may  have  a  saucepan 
with  a  Rumford  steamer  to  fit  it,  or  a  large  kettle  inserted 
over  the  boiler  of  the  range,  in  which  small  saucepans  with 
drainers  and  close-iitting  lids  may  be  inserted,  in  which  to 
place  the  meat.  But  an  apparatus  of  this  kind,  of  dif- 
ferent forms,  may  now  be  seen  at  the  ironmongers  ;  and  as 
we  have  said  of  new-fashioned  ranges,  frying-pans, 
gridirons,  &c.  &c.,  let  them  first  be  carefully  examined, 
and  tried,  and  get  the  opinion  of  those  who  have  used  them 
for  some  time.  Steaming  has  much  to  recommend  it  to  the 
cook,  were  it  only  that  it  saves  her  much  trouble  and  also 
from  being  scorched  by  a  furious  fire.  Yet  good  cooks  do  not 
like  the  process ;  and  there  are  grave  doubts  whether  dishes 
steamed  are  as  savoury  as  when  cooked  by  the  old  method. 
The  cooks  at  Buckingham  Palace,  the  City  Club,  the 
Albion  Tavern,  &c.,  allege  that  neither  meat  nor  fish  are 
so  well  cooked  by  steam  as  by  boiling  in  water.  This 
does  not  apply  to  many  preparations,  such  as  jugged  hare, 
stuffed  oyster  of  veal,  &c.  &c.  And  steaming  in  nume- 
rous cases  has  much  to  recommend  it.  In  small  families, 
a  bain  mariey  or  a  piece  of  hot  plate  over  the  grate,  with  a  few 
embers  below,  will  be  found  useful  for  small  sauce-pans, 
in  which  are  sauces  and  ragouts,  and  generally  for  articles 


88  CHAP.  II. ^BOILING. 

that  would  stew  to  advantage,  and  which  are  not  apt  to' 
he  overdone,  as  kidneys,  jugged  hare,  and  salt  tongues. 
Where  steam  is  employed  on  any  scale,  the  steamers  must, 
of  course,  he  kept  thoroughly  clean,  aad  the  fire  must  be 
80  managed  as  to  keep  the  water  in  the  boiler  of  the  range 
boiling  strongly.  Things  to  be  steamed  are  cleaned  and 
prepared  exactly  as  for  boiling  or  stewing.  Several  ai*ticles 
may  be  cooked  in  the  same  steamer,  as  veal  with  pickled 
pork  under  it ;  or  pease-pudding  tied  up,  and  carrots 
laid  to  one  side.  The  same  steamer  may  have  small 
saucepans  fitting  into  the  lid,  in  which  apple-sauce,  for 
example,  or  parsley  may  be  cooked,  or  butter  melted.  If 
the  steamed  meats  are  of  suitable  kinds,  the  liquor  which 
must  occasionally  be  drawn  off  by  the  tap  of  the  steamer,  will 
make  good  soup  when  it  is  allowed  to  cool  and  the  cake  of 
fat  is  taken  off.  Steaming  requires  as  long  time  as  boiling. 
Cooking  hy  Gas, — Some  years  since  we  had  great  hopes  of 
the  success  of  cooking  hygaSy  which  must  have  been  of  im- 
mense convenience  to  small  families  where  gas  is  used  for 
lighting.  We  regret  to  say  that  no  progress  has  been 
made :  gas  cookery  is  still  not  only  unsatisfactory,  but 
expensive. 


CHAPTER  II. 

1. — TO  BOIL  A  ROUND  OF  BEEF. 

A  ROUND  or  rump  of  salted  beef  may  be  boiled  whole,  or 
the  round  may  be  divided  into  two  or  three  pieces,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  joint,  and  the  number  of  the  guests 
or  family.  [For  salting  it,  see  No.  1188.]  It  is  a  common 
error  to  boil  too  much  of  a  large  ham  or  round  at  once. 
If  boiled  whole,  the  bone  may  be  cut  out ;  if  divided,  it  is 
desirable  to  give  each  piece  an  equal  proportion  of  the  fat ; 
the  tongue,  or  silver  side  is  the  best.  Wash  the  meat,  and, 
if  over  salt,  soak  it  in  one  or  more  waters  till  it  be  suffi- 
ciently freshened.     Skewer  it  up  tightly,  and  of  a  good 


BOUND  OF  BEEF — ^BSEF — LEO  OF  MUTTON.  80 

shape,  wrapping  the  flap  or  tongue>piece  very  firmly 
roiind ;  and  then  hind  it  with  strong  tape,  or  fillets  of 
linen.  The  pot  should  he  roomy,  and  the  water  should 
just  coyer  the  meat.  A  fish-drainer  is  convenient  to  hoil 
this  and  other  large  pieces  on.  Heat  gradually ;  take  off 
the  scum,  (of  which  a  great  deal  will  he  thrown  up,)  till 
no  more  rises,  and  throw  in  cold  water  to  refine  the  liquor 
farther,  and  scum  again ;  cover  the  pot  close,  and  boil 
slowly,  but  at  an  equal  temperature,  allowing  about  three 
hours  to  from  12  to  16  pounds,  and  from  that  to  four  or 
^ve  hours  for  a  weightier  piece.  Turn  the  meat  once  or 
twice  in  the  pot  during  the  process.  Put  in  carrot  and 
turnip  about  two  hours  after  the  meat.  If  the  liquor  is  to 
be  afterwards  used  for  pease  or  potato  soup,  the  roots 
instead  of  hurting  will  improve  the  flavour.  Greens  may 
be  boiled  in  the  same  pot,  but  much  better  separately  in 
some  of  the  pot-liquor.  When  the  meat  is  dished,  ladle  up 
some  of  the  liquor  to  wash  it,  and  with  a  clean  sponge,  or 
a  cloth  moistened  in  the  pot-liquor,  take  ofi^  any  scum  or 
films  which  will  often  hang  about  salted  meat ;  replace 
the  skewer  that  holds  the  flap  with  a  plated  or  silver  one  ; 
garnish  with  large  sliced  carrots  (or  with  greens  or  cabbage 
instead,)  and  serve  greens  in  separate  dishes. 

Obs,  The  dry  outside  slices  are  to  be  laid  aside  by  the  carver; 
the  meat  must  be  cut  in  smooth,  thin,  horizontal  or  diagonal 
slices,  keeping  the  surface  level.  The  soft  fat  eats  best  when  the 
meat  is  warm,  the  firmer  fat  when  it  is  cold;  but  the  taste  of  the 
guests  must  be  the  carver's  guide.  By  good  management  this 
meat  will  in  cold  weather  keep  for  a  fortnight  or  more.  Cover 
it  with  several  folds  of  soft  cloth.  Cut  off  a  thin  slice  fVom  the 
outside  before  it  is  at  any  time  presented  at  table,  or  on  the  side- 
board. If  underdone,  the  meat,  after  keeping  some  time,  may 
be  put  into  pot-liquor,  and  get  from  15  to  35  minutes'  slow 
boiling.  This  receipt  is  equally  applicable  to  every  piece  of  salted 
beef,  whether  ribs,  brisket,  edge-bone,  or  heuckbane.  In  England 
a  few  suet  or  plain  flour-dumplings,  or  what  are  provincially 
called  dough'hoyty  are  often  boiled  with  the  round  and  served 
with  it  ^  hot  and  hot."  The  Reform  Club  authority  suggests 
that  when  to  be  presented  cold,  the  round  taken  from  the  boiling 
pot  should  be  plunged  into  ice,  or  several  courses  of  spring  water 
to  freeze  the  surface  and  retain  the  juices. 

2.   BOILED  BEEF,  OR  BOUILLI  ORDINAIRE. 

This  is  another  plain  family  dish, — boiled  fresh  beef ; 


90  CHAP.  II, ^BOILINO. 

but  as  economy,  good  sense,  and,  what  is  the  same  thing, 
good  taste,  reject  this  mode  of  dressing  beef  but  in  con- 
junction with  the  soup,  which  forms  the  better  part  of  it, 
we  leave  the  Bcmlli  till  we  give  it  along  with  Bouillon^ 
though  obliged,  for  connexion's  sake,  to  notice  it  here. 
See  No.  889,  and  Obs, 

3.    TO  BOIL  LEO  OF  MUTTON  WITH  TURNIP,  &C. 

A  LEO  OF  MUTTON — the  gigct  of  the  French  and  Scottish 
kitchen  —  may  be  kept  from  two  days  to  a  week  before 
boiling.  The  pipe,  as  it  is  technically  called,  must  be  cut 
out,  and  the  mustiness  wliich  gathers  on  the  surface,  and 
in  the  folds  and  soft  places,  daily  rubbed  off.  It  is  whitest 
when  quite  fresh,  but  most  delicate  when  hung  a  week  in 
the  larder,  though  not  so  long  as  to  allow  the  juices  to 
thicken,  and  the  flavour  to  deteriorate.  Mountain-wether 
mutton,  from  four  to  five  years  old,  is  by  far  the  best, 
whether  for  boiling  or  roasting.  Choose  it  short  and 
thick  in  the  knuckle,  and  of  a  pure,  healthy,  brownish 
red.  Chop  but  a  very  small  bit  off  the  shank  ;  if  too 
much  is  taken  off,  the  juices  will  be  drained  by  this  con- 
duit. If  you  wish  to  whiten  the  meat,  blanch  it  for  ten 
minutes  in  warm  water,  or  boil  it  in  a  floured  cloth  if  you 
like.  Simmer  it  in  an  oval-shaped  pot  that  will  just  hold 
it,  letting  the  water  come  very  slowly  to  boil.  Skim 
carefully.  Boil  sliced  carrots  and  turnip  with  the  mutton, 
and  the  younger  and  more  juicy  they  are  the  better  they  suit 
this  joint.  Be  sure  never  to  run  a  fork  or  any  thing  sharp 
into  the  meat,  which  would  drain  its  juices.  All  meat  ought 
to  be  well  done,  but  a  leg  of  mutton  not  overdone^  to  look 
plump  and  retain  its  juices.  .  About  two  hours  of  slow 
boiling  will  dress  it.  Garnish  with  slices  of  carrot.  Pour 
caper-sauce  over  the  meat,  and  serve  mashed  turnip  or 
cauliflower  in  a  separate  dish.  Some  good  country  cooks 
serve  the  turnip  as  a  puree,  that  is,  a  thin  mash  made  with 
cream,  under  the  mutton  ;  and  as,  in  carving,  the  native 
juices  are  all  caught  by  the  vegetable  sauce,  the  practice, 
though  not  general,  is  commendable  ;  but  where  it  is  fol- 
lowed, the  caper-sauce,  if  served  at  all,  must  be  kept  in 
a  sauce-boat.  Turnip-sauce,  t.  e,  a  very  thin  puree,  or 
mash,  is  sometimes  poured  over  the  joint.     If  chickens  or 


LEO  OF  MUTTON — SCBAO  OF  MUTTON.         91 

fowls  are  banted  for  the  same  dinner,  they  will  boil  in  a 
cloth  with  great  advantage  along  with  the  mutton,  before 
the  roots  are  put  to  it,  or  in  some  of  the  liquor  in  a  sepa- 
rate pot.  —  Obs,  '  This  joint,  above  all  others^  should  bo 
boiled  slowly  to  eat  well.  The  liquor  in  which  fresh 
mutton  is  boiled  is  valuable  for  broth  ;  and  it  is  a  common 
family  practice  in  Scotland,  to  make  barley  or  rice  broth 
at  the  same  time  the  leg  is  boiled.  When  broth  is  to  be 
made  put  in  the  barley  at  first ;  lift  out  the  meat  after  an 
hour  and  a  halfs  boiling ;  cover  it  up  to  keep  warm ; 
take  the  lid  off  the  pot,  and  suffer  the  liquor  to  evaporate 
by  rapid  boiling,  till  what  remains  is  sti;ong  and  good, 
and  the  broth  of  a  proper  consistence.  Cut  some  of  the 
roots  into  small  dices,  and  put  these,  with  a  head  of 
celery  cut  in  fillets,  and  a  little  shred  parsley,  to  the  broth  ; 
return  the  mutton,  and  boil  gently  for  a  half-hour  longer. 
A  gig<A  is  an  excellent  and  most  economical  joint,  capable 
of  being  turned  to  many  purposes.  It  may  be  dressed  as 
chops,  and  the  best  balmy,  mellow,  barley  or  rice  broth 
made  of  what  remains.  It  may  also  be  roasted,  or  baked, 
or  cured  as  ham,  or,  if  a  large  gigot,  a  fillet  may  be  stuffed 
and  roasted,  and  the  knuckle  used  for  barley  or  rice  broth. 
In  French  cookery,  parsley,  onions,  and  sometimes  a  clove 
or  two  of  garlic,  are  boiled  with  this  favourite  joint.  It 
is  then  glazed  and  served  on  a  Sauce  Espa^nole*  —  See 
French  Cookery^  Part  III.  Chap.  ii. 

4.    TO  BOIL  A  SMALL  SCRAG  OF  MUTTON,  OR  BACK  RIBS, — 

An  Economical  Dish. 

Wash,  trim  nicely,  and  simmer  from  five  to  seven 
pounds  of  the  neck  slowly  for  two  hours,  making  broth 
as  in  last  receipt.  Use  the  trimmed-off  bones.  The  scrag 
may  be  taken  up  and  finished  with  eg^  and  bread  crumbs, 
in  the  American  oven,  like  dressed  lamb's  head,  thus 
making  a  nice  cheap  family  dish,  and  soup  also.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  carrot,  or  turnips  cut ;  and  pour  over  the 
meat  caper-sauce,  or  parsley  and  butter.  Serve  mashed 
turnip  or  cauliflower.  —  Obs,  Pouring  the  sauce  over 
boiled  dishes,  besides  improving  their  appearance,  is  often 
to  be  preferred,  because,  in  carving,  the  juices  of  the  meat. 


92  CHAP.  II. — ^BOILIN(}. 

the  natural  sauce,  flow  out  and  mingle  with  the  prepared 
relish,  "  each  improving  each." 

This  joint,  in  point  of  economy,  comes  next,  if  not 
before  the  gigot.  Tlie  scrag  (Captain  Booth's  favourite 
dish  —  vide  Fielding's  Amelia)  or  the  neck  alone,  makes 
excellent  barley  or  rice  broth,  or  it  will  stew.  The  ribs 
will  do  the  same ;  or  make  Chops,  Currie,  Haricot,  Irish 
Stew,  or  Pie. — See  Made  Dishes  of  MvUon, — French  cooks 
take  two  necks  for  this  dish,  but  their  mutton,  lamb,  and 
veal,  are  generally  smaller  than  ours.  They  saw  off  the 
bones  ;  steep  the  meat  in  olive  oil,  pepper,  salt,  and  sliced 
onion,  and  lard  it  with  blanched  minced  parsley.  A 
boiled  shoulder  of  mutton,  or  of  veal,  is  very  good  with 
white  onion-sauce  poured  over  it.  A  scrag  of  lamb  is 
done  as  above. 

5.    TO  BOIL  A  LEG  OF  LAMB. 

Lamb  must  be  boiled  slowly  to  look  plump  and  white  ; 
and  is  served  with  brocoli,  spinage,  turnip,  or  cauliflower. 
Garnish  with  sprigs  of  cauliflower.  The  loin  may  be  cut  in 
steaks  and  nicely  fried,  and  served  round  the  boiled  leg 
with  crisped  parsley.  —  See  Made  Dishes  of  Lamb, 

6.    TO  BOIL  VEAL. 

Veal,  save  the  gristly  parts,  when  plainly  boiled,  is  too 
insipid  to  be  much  relished.  But  variety,  economy,  and 
veal  broth  or  gravy,  sanction  this  mode  of  cookery.  Boiled 
veal  looks  detestable  when  slobbery  and  red-coloured  ;  and 
to  prevent  this,  particular  attention  must  be  paid  to  the 
boiling.  It  is  eaten  with  bacon,  or  sausage,  Sawx  — 
Parsley  and  butter,  onion-sauce  of  young  onions,  or  any 
favourite  piqttanie  sauce. — See  M<ide  Dishes  of  Veal. 

7.    TO  BOIL  venison.* 

A  NECK,  and  even  a  haunch,  is  sometimes  boiled.     Let  it 

hang  from   three  days  to  ten.      Boil  it  as  mutton.     It  is 

eaten  with  turnip  or  cauliflower,  with  which  last  garnish, 

Saiice — Melted  butter,  and  a  little  of  any  of  the  flavoured 

vinegars  you  choose. — See  Venison  Soup  ;  see  also  Civet  de 

ChevreuiL 

*  It  is  only  in  the  hunting-grounds  of  America  that  one  could  hear 
to  hear  of  venison  so  scftndalously  cooked  ;  hut  when  very  plentiful  it 
may  he  made  into  soup,  which  possesses  the  wild  flavour  so  prized  hy 
ies  Iiommes  de  houche. 


POULTRr.  OS 

8.    TO  BOIL  POULTRY.* 

In  picking,  be  careful  not  to  break  the  skin.     Let  the 

fowls  hang  from  two  to  five  days  ;    for  the  most  delicate 

fowl  will  be  tough  and  thready  if  too  soon  dressed.    When 

to  be   used,  draw,  singe  without  blackening,  and  wash 

thoroughly,  passing  a  stream  of  water  again  and  again 

through  the  inside.    Boiled  fowls  must  be  very  neatly 

trussed,  as  they  have  small  aid  from  skewers ;  and  nothing 

can  be  more  indecorous  than  to  see  unfortunates  on  the 

table — 

Whose  dying  limbs  no  decent  hands  composed ! 

Put  them  on  with  plenty  of  water,  a  little  warmed,  in  a 
floured  cloth  if  you  like.  Having,  as  usual,  skimmed  very 
carefully,  simmer  by  the  side  of  the  fire  from  thirty-five 
minutes  to  an  hour  and  half,  according  to  the  age  and  size  of 
the  fowl.  A  small  tureen  of  very  good  barley  or  rice  broth, 
seasoned  with  shred  parsley  and  young  onions,  may  be 
made  at  the  same  time,  if  a  shank,  or  small  cutlets  of  neck 
of  mutton  be  added ;  which  last  may  be  fioigally  served 
in  the  broth.  Some  good  cooks  put  fresh  suet  and  slices 
of  peeled  lemon  to  boil  with  fowls  if  lean,  but  larding  is 
better.  White-legged  fowls  are  most  worthy  of  attention, 
whether  for  eating  or  appearance. 


The  St.  Ronan's  sauce  for  fowls  was  either  the  national 

*  So  little  is  the  proper  keeping  of  fowls  previous  to  dressing  attended 
to  in.  country  inns  and  families,  that,  warned  by  experience,  the  arrival 
of  a  stranger  is  the  signal  for  the  whole  poultry  in  some  places  to  run 
off  and  burrow  among  the  nettles,  to  eschew  their  fate  for  yet  another 
day.  The  bounty  of  a  penny  sterling,  which  travellers  have  sometimes 
heard  offered  on  the  head  of  "  the  old  cook  to  make  brandered  chicken 
for  the  gentleman^s  dinner,"  is  often  earned  with  the  sweat  of  his  brow 
by  the  gallopin  loitering  about  the  inn-door,  so  knowing  do  those  old 
stagers  become. — As  a  house  for  the  wayfarer,  and  the  solitary  chance- 
traveller,  poultry  was  at  all  times  a  main  article  in  the  larder  of  the 
Cleikum,  where  great  dinners  and  numerous  dishes  were  seldom  re- 
quired. So  plump,  so  white,  so  tender  were  the  fowls,  whether  boiled 
or  roasted,  and  the  chickens,  whether  brandered,  or  dressed  as  how- 
towdie  or  Friar^s  Chicken,  that  Mr.  Touchwood,  so  tenacious  on  other 
■points  of  the  art,  gave  up  this  department  entirely  to  Mbg  herself,  re- 
serving only  some  practical  directions  for  curried  fowls,  and  the  feeding 
and  fattening  of  young  poultry,  which  will  be  found  in  another  section 
of  this  erudite  work.  **  Take  the  fattest  and  youngest  eerocks,"*^  (year- 
lings,) said  Mbg,  "  and  the  whitest,  —  for  a  white  skin  is  a  good  sign, 
^whether  of  beast  or  body." 


04  CHAP.  II. — BOILING. 

"  drappit  egg/^  egg-sauce^  parsley  and  butter,  or,  if  the 
fowls  were  of  a  dark  complexion,  liver-saucey  as  a  veil  of 
their  dinginess.  Touchwood  chose  celery-sauce  for  fowls, 
and  qygter-sauce  for  turkey ;  Jekyll  preferred  lemon- mucey 
but  often  joined  the  Nabob.  The  best  sort  of  stuffing  or 
forcemeat  for  poultry  was  the  cause  of  many  disputes. 
Meg  long  stood  out  for  sweet  stuffing  for  her  turkeys, 
orthodox  apple-sauce  for  her  goose,  and  a  sweet  pudding 
in  the  belly  of  her  sucking  pig.  After  a  feud  which  lasted 
three  days,  the  belligerents  came  to  a  treaty  on  the  old 
basis  of  the  uti  possidetis^  though  the  best  stuffing  for 
boiled  or  roaeted  poultry  or  veal  was  agreed  to  be  this, — 

SAUCE  AND  STUFFING  FOR  BOILED  TURKEY,  F0WI5,  OR  VEAL. 

"  Crumqs  of  stale  bread,  two  parts ;  suet,  marrow,  or 
fresh  butter,  one  part ;  a  little  parsley,  boiled  for  a  minute, 
and  very  finely  shred ;  the  quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grated, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-rind  grated,  allspice  and  salt,  — 
the  whole  to  be  worked  up  to  a  proper  consistence,  with 
two  yolks  of  eggs  well  beat."  If  for  roasted  or  boiled 
turkey,  pickled  oysters  chopped,  ham  or  tongue  grated, 
and  eschalot  to  taste  may  be  added.  Meg's  sweet  stuffing 
was  made  by  discarding  the  parsley,  ham,  oysters,  and 
tongue,  and  substituting  a  large  handful  of  currants, 
picked,  rubbed,  and  dried,  as  for  puddings. 

- 

[A  common  and  an  approved  smuggling  way  of  boiling 
a  pullet  or  houhtowdie  in  Scotland,  was,  in  a  well-cleaned 
haggis-bag,  which  must  have  preserved  the  juices  much 
better  than  a  cloth.  In  the  days  of  Popery  and  good 
cheer, — and  they  were  certainly  synonymous, — ^though  we 
do  not  quite  subscribe  to  the  opinion  of  Dr.  Redgill,  that 
no  Presbyterian  country  can  ever  attain  eminence  in 
Gastronomy,  —  in  those  days  of  paternosters  and  venison 
pasties,  stoups  of  untaxed  claret  and  oral  confession,  a 
pullet  so  treated  was,  according  to  waggish  legends,  the 
secret  regale  provided  for  Mess  John  by  his  fair  penitents. 
— Vide  Allan  'Ram&a.y^s  ^* Monk  and  Miller's  Wife^^  or 
"  Friars  of  Berwick  ;"  also,  "  Traditions  of  the  Cleikum," 
and  "  Bughtrigg's  Wife's  Receipt  for  *  Ane  capon  stewed 
in  brewis.'" — ^Butter,  shred  onions,  and  spice,  were  put  in 


BACON — HAM — HAH  WITH  MADEIRA.  95 

the  bag  along  with  the  fowl,  and  formed  the  sauce,  or  else 
oysters  with  their  liquor  strained.] 

9.   TO  BOIL  BACON. 

Bring  slowly  to  boil,  and  simmer  for  at  least  two  hours. 
When  ready  to  serve,  strip  off  the  rind,  and  dry  the  meat 
with  a  red  hot  shovel,  or  salamander,  or  set  it  in  the  oven 
to  dry  up  the  oozing  fat.   Dredge  bread-raspings  over  it. 

10.   TO  BOIL  A  HAM.* 

A  LARGE  ham  is  seldom  boUed  at  once,  but  whether 
in  whole,  or  in  part,  it  must  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 
Pork  is  so  well  adapted  to  salting  that  though  kept  for 
years,  it  does  not  become  so  hard  or  tough  as  beef  or 
mutton  would  do  in  half  the  time.  The  main  point  is  the 
soahingy  which  the  discretion  of  the  cook  must  proportion 
to  the  hardness  and  saltness  of  the  meat.  If  very  old, 
briny,  and  dry,  it  will  require  from  three  to  four  days,  in 
and  out  of  the  water,  to  soften  and  become  mellow.  The 
night  before  it  is  boiled,  pour  lukewarm  water  over  it, 
scrape  it  very  well,  trim  off  all  rusty  ill-looking  bits.  Put 
it  in  an  oval  kettle  with  plenty  of  water.  Let  it  soak  for 
an  hour  or  two  before  coming  to  the  boil, — then  quicken 
the  boil,  and  skim.  Then  let  it  simmer  slowly  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  for  from  two  to  five  hours,  according  to  the 
weight.  When  done,  pull  off  the  skin  neatly  and  keep  it 
to  cover  the  ham  when  set  by  cold  ;  strew  bread-raspings 
(and  many  pour  spirits)  over  it,  and  place  it  on  a  hot  dish 
set  over  the  pot  before  the  fire,  to  brown  and  crisp.  It 
will  crisp  easier  if  put  in  an  oven  to  dry  up  the  oozing  fat. 
Twist  a  fringe  of  writing  paper  neatly  round  the  shank, 
if  not  sawed  off,  which  is  much  better.  Garnish  if  you 
choose  with  old-fashioned  greens,  or  strew  raspings  in 
little  heaps  on  the  ledge  of  the  dish ;  or  dish  it  over  dressed 
Windsor  beans.  —  See  Glazing.  We  have  seen  fresh  ham 
admirably  done  by  a  quick  boiling  of  one  hour,  and  then 
toasting  in  the  American  oven,  after  it  is  skinned. 

*  A  Hamburgh  or  Westphalia  ham  requires  longer  soaking  than  one 
of  Bayonne,  or  one  home-made. — ^We  back  a  Westmoreland  or  York- 
shire, a  Gloucester,  Wiltshire,  or  Dumfries-shire  ham,  well  fattened  and 
properly  cured,  against  all  the  hams  in  the  world. — P.  T. 


96  CHAP.  II. BOILING. 

11.  HAM  WITH  MADEIRA. —  The  French  Jambon  Braisi. 

Take  a  small  fresh  North  of  England  ham.  Saw  off 
the  knuckle,  or  the  ham  may  be  boned  if  wished.  Let  it 
soak  if  likely  to  be  briny,  and  simmer  it  for  an  hour ; 
then  drain,  trim,  and  dry  it.  Lay  it  in  a  braising  pan,  or 
oval- shaped  stew-pan  that  will  just  hold  it,  and  in  which 
you  have  previously  laid  slices  of  veal,  carrots,  onions, 
parsley,  and  spices.-  Pour  in  some  good  broth,  (about  a 
quart,)  and  a  bottle  of  Madeira.  When  done  for  an  hour 
take  off  the  lid,  and  let  the  braise  reduce.  In  a  half-hour 
more,  probe  to  try  whether  the  ham  is  done.  Drain  and 
skin,  and  dry  it  in  the  oven.  Glaze  with  veal  glaze  \  serve 
the  braise  liquor,  well  reduced,  and  skimmed  as  sauce.  — 
Obs,  Ham  may  be  glazed  enough  by  sifting  fine  sugar 
over  it,  and  holding  a  red  hot  poker  above  ;  but  sioeet  glaze 
is,  in  our  opinion,  not  suitable  to  meat  dishes.  The  French 
often  serve  braised  ham  over  spinage,  or  mashed,  L  e.  a  puree 
of  turnips,  or  other  vegetables  ;  but  it  is  seldom  served  in 
England  save  with  Windsor  beans. 

12.    HAM  WITH  WINDSOR  BEANS. 

Boil  the  ham  as  directed  in  No.  10,  and  serve  it  trim- 
med and  skinned,  over  Windsor  beans,  boiled  in  salt  and' 
water,  and  tossed  up  in  melted  butter.— Oi*.  This,  which 
is  just  the  French  ham  a  Pessence,  will  keep  longer  than  a 
round  of  beef,  and  is  an  excellent  and  serviceable  article 
at  all  hours.  When  cold,  keep  as  directed  for  a  salted 
round  of  beef,  using  the  skin  instead  of  cloths.  The  out- 
side slices  pared  oflP  before  the  meat  is  served,  can  be  kept 
for  culinary  purposes.  The  liquor  in  which  the  ham  was 
boiled  may  be  strained  ;  and  if  you  manage  to  have  fowls 
or  a  knuckle  of  veal  dressed  on  the  following  day,  both 
liquors  may  be  rapidly  boiled  down  together,  with  pepper, 
mace,  eschalot,  and  sweet  herbs,  when  the  result  will  be  a 
rich  and  highly-relishing  gravy  for  culinary  purposes.  Or 
plain  pease  or  carrot  soup  may  be  made  of  these  mixed 
liquors.  —  See  Potted  Meats,  Pease  Soup,  Ham  roasted, 
and  Sandwiches, 


Jekyll  was   intolerably   eloquent   on  ham  sauce,  and 
astounded    even    Touchwood    by   anecdotes  of  a  grand 


BACON— LEG  OF  PORK—- GAHE-^TRIPE  AND  COW-HEELS.    9? 

gourmand^  a  man  of  uUra  gouty  who,  pursuing  the 
SCIENCE  as  one  of  the  fine  arts,  soaked  his  Westphalia  hams 
in  Rhine- wine,  and  baked  them  in  French  wine,  with  aroma- 
tic spices.  **  It  was  a  fine  thing,"  as  the  Irishman  said,  ^^  to 
be  a  pig  in  them  times."  If  a  ham  is  tolerably  fresh,  it 
will  bake  very  well.  It  must  be  soaked  as  for  boiling. 
The  colour  will  be  better  than  when  boiled,  and  the 
flavour  higher.  But  Mistress  Dods,  who  detested  that 
new  and  unnatural  practice,  said  it  was  *^  dried  to  a  dan- 
der;" and  Touchwood  dropped  the  point,  as  he  could  not 
think  of  bestowing  a  libation  of  Rhine-wine  on  a  Porker 
of  Westphalia,  (see  Ham  with  Madeira ;)  and  distance 
from  the  metropolis  made  it  impossible  to  procure  Essence 
of  Ham,  a  high-flavoured  commodity  sold  at  the  London 
Eating-houses,  which  he  not  irrationally  concluded  might 
make  an  admirable  substitute  for  wine,  and  be  afterwards 
applicable  to  every  purpose  for  which  Essence  of  Ham  is 
used.  His  experiment  is  worth  trying. — French  Mode. 
In  France,  hams  are  boiled  deliciously,  wrapped  in  a  cloth 
with  carrots,  onions,  garlic,  cloves,  bay-leaves,  parsley, 
thyme,  and  basil.  When  enough  done,  the  cloth  is  tied 
more  firmly,  and  when  cool,  the  ham  is  dressed  as  in  No. 
11,  and  served  on  a  napkin.  The  French  also  roast  hams, 
and  have  the  Pate  de  Jamhon, 

Id.    BOILED  BACON  OR  PORK. 

All  pork  to  be  boiled  should  lie  in  salt  at  least  two  days 
previous  to  dressing.  Pork  requires  more  boiling  than 
other  meat.  Small  pork  is  the  most  delicate  to  boil  fresh. 
Pork  throws  up  a  greasy  scum  during  the  whole  process, 
which  must  be  constantly  removed.  Serve  with  pease-pud- 
ding or  bean  pudding,  or  parsnips,  boiled  in  the  same  pot.* 

*  Dr.  Redgill,  professionally  devoted  to  benevolence  uid  Christian 
charity,  made  a  long  oration  on  the  value  of  pork  liquor  for  soup  to  the 
poor ;  charitable  soup,  economical  soup,  dealt  out  in  copious  libations  to 
old  -women,  as  often  as  very  salt  or  very  fat  pork  was  boiled  in  the 
Doctor^s  kitchen.  The  idea  was  nauseous  to  every  other  member  of 
the  Committee.  Touchwood  asserted,  that  even  Cobbbtt,  that  en- 
thusiast for  hog^s  flesh,  disclaims  pork  brotJi.  Redoill,  on  this  hard 
push,  brought  forward  his  battle-horse.  Dr.  Kitchiner,  —  in  vain,  — 
was  left  in  a  minority  of  one,  and  the  hogs  ^ot  their  natural  perquisite. 
The  liquor  of  youn^  pork  not  Ion?  in  salt  will,  however,  make  tolerable 
pease-soup,  to  whi<m  a  strong  subduing  relish  of  celenr  and  onion  should 
be  given.  Cabbage  and  greens  of  all  sorts  may  be  boiled  vrith  advan- 
tage in  pork  liquor.    Also  bean  or  pease  pudding. 

a 


VQ  CHAP.  II. — BOIUXO. 

14.    A  LEO  OF  PORK  TO  BOIL.' 

Choose  a  nice,  small,  compact,  well-filled  leg.  Salt  it, 
rubbing  hard,  lay  it  in  pickle  for  a  week ;  and  boil  and 
serve  along  with  pease-pudding,  l)oiled  with  it,  and  savoys 
or  green  cabbage. 

J  5.   TO   BOIL  RABBITS,  PARTRIDGES,    PHEASANTS,  SNIPES,  WILD 

DUCKS,  AND  OTHER  GAME. 

Boil  as  directed  in  No.  8  ;  or  in  fi*esli  veal  or  mutton- 
broth.  For  Partridges,  Pheasants,  &c.  use  the  same 
sauces  as  directed  for  them  when,  roasted ;  garnish  with 
ciisp  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  or  green  pickles.  —  Ohs, 
Though  game  of  all  sorts  is  occasionally  boiled,  the  Com- 
mittee of  the  Cleikura  did  not  patronise  this  mode  of 
dressing,  except  for  rabbits.  Stewed  rabbits,  which  must 
be  neatly  trussed,  are  best  smothered  with  a  thick,  mild 
onion-sauce,  though  sometimes  a  /tiTer-sauce  is  made  thus : 
Boil  and  bruise  the  liver ;  add  veal  or  other  gravy  to 
some  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  rabbits  were  boiled. 
Thicken  with  flour,  and  a  good  piece  of  butter,  and  some 
parsley  shred  very  fine.  Season  with  mace  and  allspice. 
Garnish  with  sliced  lemon.  Onion-sauce  is  also  often  used 
for  boiled  goose  and  ducks,  in  preference  to  less  piquant 
compositions.  Rabbits  will  take  a  full  hour  of  slow  boil- 
ing ;  birds  according  to  their  size. — Stud^  page  93. 
16.  TO  boil  tripe  and  cow-heels. 

Unless  in  country  places,  or  where  families  kill  their 
own  beef,  tripe  is  usually  bought  from  the  butcher,  or  else 
ready-boiled  at  the  Tripe  or  Cow-heel  shops.  It  requires 
very  long  boiling — ^from  six  to  nine  hours  of  simmering  by 
the  fire,  or,  as  is  very  good  practice  where  kitchen- 
fires  are  gathered^  it  is  left  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  whole 
night.  Tripe  requires  endless  cleaning,  and  is  best  ma- 
naged at  a  river-side.  Afterwards,  to  assist  in  the  clean- 
ing and  blanching,  a  piece  of  quicklime  may  be  dissolved 
in  the  water  in  which  it  is  scalded  and  scraped  ;  but  tripe 
so  blanched  will  become  ill  coloured  in  the  boiling.  Tripe, 
like  chickens,  veal,  &c.  may  be  whitened  by  rubbing  it 
with  lemon-juice,  where  expense  is  no  object.  The  scald- 
ing must  be  frequently  repeated.  When  bought  in  the 
shops,  choose  it  thick,  fat,  and  white,  and  see  that  it  be 


cow  HEELS.  99 

• 

fresh.  The  best  way  of  keeping  tripe  after  it  is  boiled, 
is  to  allow  it  to  jelly  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled. 
When  to  be  dressed,  pare  off  the  fat  and  films,  and  wash 
it  with  warm  water.  Cut  it  into  pieces  about  the  size  of 
small  cutlets,  and  simmer  in  milk  and  water  till  it  is 
quite  soft  and  tender,  and  the  sauce  thickish.  Peel  and 
boil  a  dozen  white,  firm  button  onions.  Dish  the  tripe 
in  a  deep  steak-dish  or  small  tureen,  and  put  the  onions 
to  it,  taking  off  the  surface-skin  if  they  look  black.* 
Many  persons  prefer  tripe  boiled  plainly  in  water,  and 
served  with  onions-sauce  and  mustard ;  others  boil  it  in  veal 
broth,  or  put  a  fresh  beef-bone  or  veal-shank  to  the  water, 
and  some  bake  it  in  milk,  and  serve  onion-sauce  sepa- 
rately.— See  Glasgow  and  Birmingham  Tripe.     No.  56. 

French  Mode. — In  modern  French  cookery,  tripe,  after 
being  boiled  and  whitened  with  lemon-juice,  is  cut  in 
strips  and  stewed  in  white  sauce,  or  strong  white  broth, 
for  four  hours.  It  is  then  served  either  in  a  sauce  k  la 
Poulette  or  in  sauce  Italienne  blanche.  In  old  French 
cookery,  the  tripe,  when  boiled  and  cut  in  bits,  was  stewed 
in  cullis  with  all  sorts  of  herbs,  onions,  and  chives,  a  glass 
of  wine,  and  a  little  tarragon.  When  the  sauce  was 
thickened,  a  little  made  mustard  was  added,  and  the  whole 
strained,  heated,  and  poured  over  the  tripe. 

Cow-HEELS  are  generally  cleaned  before  they  are  bought. 
They  require  from  five  to  six  hours'  boiling.  If  to  be 
dressed,  cut  them  into  neat  bits,  e^^  and  crumb  these, 
brown  them,  and  serve  round  slices  of  Portugal  onion 
fried,  and  laid  in  tlie  middle  of  the  dish.  Sauce, — melted 
butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  very  little 
vinegar,  or  parsley  and  butter.  —  See  Potted  Heels^  Fried 
and  Fricasseed  Tripe,  S^c;  also  French  Cookery ,  National 
Dishes,  and  Kelly's  Sauce, 

The  fat  skimmings  of  Cow-heels  and  Cow-head  are  the 
best  adapted,  for  frying  or  basting,  of  all  boiled  fats.  They, 
indeed,  afford  a  rery  rich  oil,  which  is  sometimes  even 

*  Dr.  Bbdgill,  to  the  above,  added  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  put  into  the  sauce,  half  an  hour  before  it  was  taken  off  the  fire,  a 
large  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  or  the  same  quantity  of  mushroom- 
catsup,  and  the  onions,  previously  parboiled,  or  fried  in  butter.  This 
original  variation  was  highly  approved  of. 


100  CHAP.  in. — ^ROASTING. 

burned ;  and  the  perfumers  draw  largely  upon  them  for 
commodities  of  high  name.  Calves'  feet  jelly,  so  named, 
is  often  made  both  of  Cow-heels  and  Tripe  ;  indeed  the 
former  affords  a  much  stronger  jelly  than  the  article  whose 
name  it  usurps.  A  good  glaze  is  made  of  Cow-heels, 
which  also  afford  a  good  cheap  soup,  if  properly  seasoned. 


CHAPTER  III. 


ROASTING. 


**  For  what  are  your  lonps,  your  ragouts,  and  your  sauce. 
Compared  to  the  Beef  of  Old  England  ?— 
And  O,  the  Old  En^ish  Roast  Bee/r 

In  a  voice  between  whistling  and  singing,  accompanied 
by  the  flourish  of  the  carving-knife,  and  an  occasional  rub 
against  the  steel,  it  was  with  the  above  appropriate  stave 
that  our  brisk  old  Nabob  hailed  with  high  satisfaction 
the  iordfy  sirhiny  of  a  delicate  pale  brown,  frosted  as  if 
with  seed-pearls,  a  labour  of  love  which  had  occupied  him 
for  five  hours,  and  now  smoked  in  savouriness  on  the 
board  of  the  Committee.  In  the  evening  of  the  same  day, 
and  while  the  process  was  still  fresh  in  his  head,  after 
sundry  disputes  with  Dr.  Redgill  on  the  imderdone  and  the 
overdane,  the  Nabob  dictated  something  like  the  following 
discourse  on  roasting : — 


No  printed  rules  can  make  a  good  Roaster.  Practice 
and  vigilant  attention  alone  can  produce  that  rara  avis  of 
the  kitchen.  In  the  French  kitchen  this  is  a  department 
by  itself.    He  who  rules  the  roast  attends  to  that  only. 

Choose  your  meat  well :  but  even  then  no  meat  will 
roast  to  advantage  that  is  not  kept  the  proper  length  of 
time ;  and  this  in  every  case  must  be  determined  by  the 
weather  and  the  age  of  the  animal.  Two  days  of  hot 
weather  are  equal  to  a  week  of  cold  in  rendering  meat  fit 
for  the  spit,  or  Men  mortifie* 

Londoners  often  roast  their  beef  too  soon.   In  the  North  of 


ROASTING.  101 

England,  and  other  places,  the  roasted  sirlqin  is  frequently 
salted,  and  eaten  with  vinegar  and  mustard.  A  salted 
sirloin,  or  leg  of  mutton,  eats  tolerahly  well ;  hut  they 
are  undeniahly  a  relic  of  those  days  when  the  squire  or 
yeoman  killed  his  own  heef  and  mutton,  and  his  lady 
found  it  necessary  to  keep  the  holiday  joint,  however  long, 
to  grace  the  holiday. 

Even  in  summer,  hy  proper  attention,  meat  will  keep 
much  longer  than  is  genersJly  supposed.  Have  the  roast 
properly  jointed,  which  saves  much  mortification  to  the 
carver,  and  much.haggling  and  mangling  of  the  meat.  Let 
it  he  spunged  with  salt  and  water,  and  dried.  See  that  the 
spit,  when  used,  he  hrightly  clean.  If  not,  scour  with  sand 
and  water,  or  Bath  hrick,  and  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 
If  there  is  too  much  fat,  some  of  it  may  he  previously  cut 
off  for  paste  or  puddings.  Cover  the  fat  for  the  first  hour 
with  Idtchen-paper,  fastened  on  with  twine.*  A  good 
cook  can  manage  to  handle  meat  very  little  in  the  spitting 
and  balancing.  In  many  joints,  the  spit  will  run  along 
the  side  of  the  bone  without  piercing  the  flesh.  Tie  it,  or 
fix  with  screw  skewers.  If  much  handled,  baste  the  joint 
with  salt  «nd  water,  And  dry  the  dripping-pan,  suffering 
the  meat  to  drip  and  dry  (which  it  will  do  in  a  few 
seconds  by  the  heat  of  the  fire)  before  basting.  If  the 
joint  is  not  accurately  balanced,  no  horizontal  spit  will 
work  wcll.f 

In  roasting,  the  management  of  the  fire  is  half  the 
battle.     Let  the  kitchen  grate  be  thoroughly  raked  out  ill 

*  RxBGiLL  iiiaiBted  npon  ft  warning  pogt  heie,  as  the  worthy  gentle- 
man, in  the  eagerness  of  his  appetite,  oaid  one  day  a  large  bodle-jnn  fixed 
in  his  gullet,  like  a  salmon-hook,  for  a  good  half-hour ;  which  some  of 
Meo^s  queans  had  used  in  skewering  (new  reading,  securing)  the 
paper. 

"Y  A  smoke  or  a  wind-up  jack,  or  a  cradle-spit,  was  considered  the 
best  hy  the  Nabob  ;  but  Yorkshire  jacks,  bottle-jacks,  Dutch  ovens,  and 
Gipsy  jacks,  i.  e.  a  nail  and  a  string,  and  many  other  contrivances,  may  all 
be  employed  with-success,  if  the^e  be  adapted  to  the  peculiar  construc- 
tion of  the  implement.  Experience  shows  that  the  bottle-jack,  with  or 
without  a  tin  screen  as  may  be  found  suitable,  is  the  one  best  adapted  to 
private  families  in  middle  life.  A  substitute  for  a  spit-screen  is  easily 
contrived,  from  an  old  large  tea-tray,  or  a  clothes-horse.  Smaller  light 
tin  screens  with  one  or  two  shelves  are  now  generally  substituted  for 
the  huge  block-tin  and  timber  frame- work  of  l£e  jack. 


102  CHAP.  III. — ROASTING. 

the  morning.  An  hour  before  the  roast  is  put  down,  make 
up  a  fire  suited  to  the  size  of  the  joint ;  let  it  be  clear  and 
glowing,  and  free  of  ashes  and  smoke  in  front.  A  hacking 
of  wetted  cinders  or  small  coal  helps  to  throw  forward  and 
sustain  an  equal  radiant  heat  in  front.  Place  the  meat  at 
a  due  distance,  that  it  may  heat  through  without  the  out- 
side becoming  shrivelled  and  scorched.  To  prevent  this, 
baste  diligently  for  the  first  half-hour.  The  larger  the 
joint  the  greater  at  first  must  be  the  distance  from  the 
fire,  so  that  it  be  not  so  great  as  to  make  the  meat  tough 
and  sodden  by  the  slackness  of  the  process.  A  radiant 
fire,  due  distance,  and  frequent  basting,  can  alone  ensure 
a  well-roasted  joint,  of  that  fine  amber-colour,  crisp,  and 
lightly  frothed,  which  speaks  a  language  that  all  men 
understand.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound  of  meat 
is  the  time  usually  allowed  for  roasting,  bearing  in  mind 
that  fat  meat  takes  longer  than  lean,  and  pork  and  veal 
longer  than  other  kinds  of  meat.  But^  as  we  have  said  of 
boiling,  this  must  in  almost  every  case  be  determined  by 
circumstances.  Fillets  and  legs  take  rather  longer  than 
loins  or  breasts.  A  meat-screen,  the  state  of  the  weather, 
the  kind  of  fuel,  and  a  thousand  things,  must  be  taken 
into  account.  A  meat-screen,  with  shelves,  contributes  so 
much  to  good  roasting,  and  is  so  generally  useful,  that 
something  of  the  kind  ought  to  find  a  place  in  every  family 
that  aspires  to  comfort.  It  saves  fuel,  keeps  plates  and 
dishes  warm,  and,  above  all,  by  warding  off  draughts  of 
Air,  preserve*  the  temperature  in  the  region  of  the  spit  in 
a  state  of  equality.  Once,  or,  if  the  roast  be  very  large, 
twice  during  the  process,  withdraw  the  spit  and  dripping- 
pan,  and  stir  the  fire,  clear  awa}"  the  ashes,  and  bring 
forward  the  clear  burning  coals,*  supplying  their  place 

*  In  all  departments  of.  domestic  life,  save  the  management  of 
kitchen-fires,  there  is  at  least  a  plansihle  show  of  attention  to  economy 
among  servants.  There  the  waste  is  wanton,  wilful,  and  enormous, 
whether  cooking  be  going  forward  or  not.  "  The  waste  of  fuel,"  says 
Count  Rumford,  '^  which  arises  from  making  liquids  boil  unnecessarily, 
or  when  nothing  more  is  necessary  than  merely  to  keep  them  boiling 
hot,  is  enoirmotis,  I  have  not  a  doubt,  that  half  the  fire  used  in  kitchens, 
public  and  private,  in  the  whole  world,  is  wasted  precisely  in  this 
manner."  What  would  Count  Rumford  have  said  to  great^rcsfor  doing 
nothing?     To  convince  a  regular  cook,  or  even  a  kitchen-maid,  that 


ROASTINO.  103 

with  fresh  fael.  When  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  which 
will  be  known  by  the  length  of  time,  and  by  the  steams, 
in  the  language  of  the  kitchen,  '^  drawing  to  the  fire,"  the 
paper  is  to  be  removed,  a  little  salt  sprinkled  lightly  over 
the  roast,  and  the  spit  so  placed,  that  the  ends  of  the  roast 
may  be  browned.  The  meat  must  now  be  carefully  basted, 
and  may  be  placed  a  little  nearer  to  the  fire,  if  the  surface 
is  not  yet  of  a  fine,  clear,  brown  colour.  The  roast  is  then 
frothed,  where  this  is  liked,  by  dodging  it  very  lightly 
with  well-dried  flour  shaken  from  a  dredging-box,  smaller 
in  the  holes  than  those  generally  employed.*  Fre^h  butter 
makes  a  delicate  froth,  but  does  not  improve  the  flavour  of 
the  skin  or  the  appearance  of  the  gravy,  which  ought  at 
this  stage  to  be  sparkling  in  the  dripping-pan,  bright, 
brown,  and  transparent  as  a  Caledonian  topaz.  If  much 
flour  is  dredged  on,  let  it  at  least  have  time  to  get  crisp. 

Fashion  and  luxury  have  introduced  stall-fed  oxen  and 
overgrown  sheep,  which  are  better  fitted  for  the  tallow- 
chandler  than  the  cook.  They  are  indeed  good  for  nothing, 
save  to  obtain  premiums  at  cattle  shows,  and  deluge  drip- 
ping-pans with  liquid  fat.  "Our  prize  oxen," says D' Israeli, 
^^  might  astonish  a  Roman  as  much  as  one  of  their 
crammed  peacock^  would  ourselves.  Gluttony  produces 
monsters,  and  turns  away  from  nature  to  feed  on  un- 
wholesome meats."  When  meat  of  this  description  is  to 
be  dressed,  it  is  an  object  of  economy  to  save  the  super- 
fluous fat,  which  makes  so  much  of  the  weight.  Besides 
what  is  cut  off^,  the  dripping-pan,  during  the-  first  hour  of 
roasting,  may  be  emptied  of  its  oily  contents  once  or 
twice,  and  abundance  remain  for  basting.  Dripping 
put  aside  in  this  manner  will  be  much  fitter  for  all  culi- 
nary purposes,  whether  for  pease-soup,  pie-crust,  or  for 
frying  fish,  than  that  which  has  acquired  an  empyreumatic 
taste,  either  from  burning  cinders,  or  being  exposed  to  the 
action  of  a  fierce  heat<     This  disagreeable  flavour  and  the 

Bhe  does  not  know  how  to  manage  her  fire,  is,  we  confess,  quite  hope- 
less ;  but  surely  something  might  be  made,  by  proper  instruction,  of 
young  girls,  in  economizing  an  article  of  such  serious  consequence  in 
all  families. 

♦  The  calibre  of  Touchwood's  best  dredging-box  and  that  of  hU 
pepper-box  were  precisely  the  same. 


104  CHAP,  m.— ROASTING, 

unsalutary  qualities  which  it  betokens,  makes  an  epicure 
reject  all  dripping  with  abhorrence,  for  any  use  except 
making  coarSe  pastry,  or  frying  fish,  common  fritters,  patties, 
and  rissoles.  The  improved  Cleikum  dripping-pan,  from  a 
drawing  by  Wiktbrblossom,  was  made  of  ample  dimen- 
sions, and  with  high  sloping  ledges.  It  was  furnished 
with  a  covered  fountain,  and  a  conduit  to  allow  the  super- 
fluous dripping  to  be  easily  taken  away.  In  the  Cleikum 
kitchen,  the  dripping  was  immediately  clarified  for  future 
use,  [See  No.  44.]  If  meat  is  at  all  of  good  quality,  and 
roasted  with  care,  it  will  aflFord  a  plentiful  supply  of  good 
gravy,  the  natural  and  best  sauce  that  can  accompany  it. 
To  the  gravy  which  flows  from  the  meat,  the  best  addition, 
as  we  have  found  after  repeated  experiments,  is  a  very 
little  boiling  water  (a  large  cupful  for  ten  pounds)  and 
salt,  poured  through  the  hole  from  which  the  spit  is  with- 
drawn, and  then  gently  laved  on  the  browned  outside 
wndtT  parts  of  the  roast.  Some  good  frugal  cooks  remove 
the  roast,  and  wash  and  melt  down  all  the  crisp  crust, 
which  forms  in  the  dripping-pan,  in  boiling  water,  which 
is  again  boiled,  strained,  and  poured  as  above  over  the 
roast,  thus  making  an  excellent  gravy  with  much  of  the 
Oimazome^  the  charm  of  the  roast,  in  it.  To  the  gravy  of 
venison  and  veal,  when  found  scanty,  which  will  some- 
times be  the  case,  a  little  thin  melted  butter  may  be  added 
in  preference  to  drawn  gravies.  The  dishes  for  roasts 
should  be  furnished  with  a  gravy-fountain,  for  utility  as 
well  as  neatness.  The  jelly  gravy  that  flows  from  young 
meats,  the  very  essence  of  meat,  ought  to  be  carefully  pre- 
served, as  it  forms  the  most  delicate  of  all  gravies  to  enrich 
sauces,  ragouts,  and  hashes.  Of  this,  veal  gravy  is  the 
most  delicate,  and  it  is  accordingly  in  great  requisition 
among  good  cooks ;  but  beef  gravy  is  fit  for  almost  all 
purposes. 

The  Nabob,  in  the  course  of  his  discursive  readings, 
though  he  was  more  a  practical  man  than  one  of  research, 
discovered  that  many  things  had  been  anciently  used  for 
bastings  which  the  simplicity  of  modem  practice  rejects. 
Sweet  herbs  and  seeds  pulverized,  butter  and  claret, 
yolks  of  eggs,  pounded  biscuit  and  spiceries,  have  all  been 


SIRLOIN — KUMP — BIBS  OF  BEEF.  105 

employed.  But  these  antique  refinements  were  all  rejected, 
except  butter  and  claret,  which,  for  venison,  and  all  the 
dry  meats  that  sometimes  go  under  that  generic  name, 
were  used  at  the  Cleikum  with  unanimous  approbation. 
Much  more  did  our  Nabob,  in  the  fulness  of  his  heart  and 
stomach,  on  this  day  of  his  triumph,  say  on  the  subject  of 
roasting  in  general,  and  on  this  his  Essay  roast  in  particular, 
which  we  must  take  the  liberty  to  skip,  and  come  at  once 
to  the  receipts  for  roasting. 

17.   TO  BOA.ST  A  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

Study  well  the  above  discourse,  and  bear  in  mind  that, 
next  to  broiling,  roasting  is  the  most  difficult  of  all  ele- 
mentary culinary  processes  :  and,  when  well  done,  is 
valued  accordingly.  Instruction  may  teach  even  a  bungler 
to  compound  a  tolerable  made-dishy  which,  if  faulty,  may 
be  improved,  disguised,  or  altered.  But  care  alone,  and  a 
little  practice,  can  make  a  dexterous  roaster.  Give  a  large 
sirloin  from  four  to  five  hours  to  roast ;  and  then 

The  great  Sirloin  of  Beef,  august  he  stands, 

In  his  pure  native  splendour  full  arrajM  ! 
No  knife  hath  toucbM  him  ;  never  mortal  hands 

Have  dared  his  majesty  of  form  invade. 
For  thee  be  lives :  his  death-panff  it  will  sweeten 
First  for  thee  to  he  carved — ^nrst  by  tbee  to  be  eaten  ! 

Roast  Beef  is  garnished  with  plenty  of  horseradish, 
finely  scraped,  and  laid  round  the  dish  in  light  heaps ; 
and  it  is  served  with  Yorkshire  pudding,  or  potato  pudding 
and  horseradish-sauce.*  The  fillet,  tender-loin^  or  Englisli 
side,t  as  it  is  commonly  called  in  the  northern  division  of  the 
island,  is  by  some  esteemed  the  most  delicate  part.  To  this 
the  carver  must  attend,  and  also  to  the  equitable  distribution 
of  the  fat.    Cold  roast  beef  is  generally  liked  ;  and  it  may 

*  Dr.  Rbdoill,  who  rather  relished  a  joke  after  the  serious  business 
of  dinner  was  despatched,  holding  it  as  a  maxim  that  a  moderate  laugh 
aided  digestion,  was  wont  to  say,  that  Yorkshire  Pudding  was  the  true 
squire  of  Sir  Loin,  and  Horseradish  his  brisk,  fiery  page,  without  which 
attendants  he  looked  despoiled  of  his  dignity  and  bearing.  Yorkshire 
pudding  is  nearly  the  same  as  the  Pomade  with  which  it  was  the 
ancient  custom  to  baste  roasts  till  they  gathered  a  crust  before  the 
fire. 

f  The  French  distinguish  the  different  puts  of  the  aloyau  or  sirloin 
as  "  the  lawyer^s  bit  and  the  derk^s.^^ 


106  CHA.P.  Ill, — ROASTING. 

be  wanned  in  various  ways.  Slices  may  be  wanned  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  and  served  with  some  of  the  gravy  also 
warmed,  and  seasoned  rather  highly  with  pepper  and  salt, 
anchovy,  eschalot,  or  a  tea-spoonful  of  eschalot  vinegar. 
Cold  beef  may  also  be  dressed  as  Olives,  or  as  a  Fricassee, 
Cecils,  Sanders,  Bubble  and  Squeak,  &c. — See  Made  Dishes 
of  Beef  and  French  Cookery  of  Beef 

*  17-    TO  ROAST  THE  RUMP,  OR  PART  OF  IT. 

Cut  from  the  rump,  chump-end,  a  handsome  roast  of  from 
seven  to  ten  or  twelve  pounds.  Bone  and  roll  it  up  nicely 
like  a  fillet  of  veal.  It  will  take  from  three  to  five  hours 
to  roast,  according  to  its  thickness. 

N.B. — French  cooks  saw  off  the  large  bones,  sprinkle 
the  sirloin  with  olive  oil,  and  lay  sliced  onions  and  bay 
leaves  over  it,  and  leave  it  thus  some  days  before  roasting. 
They  serve  it,  when  roasted,  with  sauce-hacMey  that  is, 
chopped  gherkins,  mushrooms,  capers,  and  an  anchovy, 
all  thrown  into  a  brown  sauce.  Sirloin  is,  we  think,  better 
ordered  at  home.  The  French  also  braise  the  sirloin,  but 
their  beef  is  sometimes  so  lean  as  to  require  a  process 
which  would  ruin  English  fed  beef. 

18.    to  ROAST  RIBS  OF  BEEF. — P.  R.,  ESQ. 

This  piece  of  beef  is  garnished,  and  served  with  the 
same  accompaniments  as  the  Sirloin.  Both  the  ribs  and 
the  inside  part  of  a  large  Sirloin  may  be  dressed  in  a  more 
elaborate  way  as  follows :  —  Cut  out  the  ribs  ;  beat  the 
meat  flat  with  a  rolling-pin ;  lay  it  to  soak  in  vinegar 
and  wine  for  a  night ;  cover  it  with  a  rich  forcemeat, 
made  of  minced  veal,  suet,  grated  ham,  lemon-peel,  and 
mixed  spices.  Roll  it  tightly  up,  fixing  it  with  small 
skewers  and  tape,  and  roast  it,  basting  constantly  with 
wine  and  butter.  Froth  with  fresh  butter,  and  serve 
with  Venison-sauce,  —  Obs,  A  fillet  of  the  loin,  larded, 
marinaded,  and  roasted,  makes  a  handsome  French  dish, 
served  with  Tomata-sauce,  or  some  fit  substitute,  as 
cucumber-sauce. 

19.    TO  ROAST  A  LEG,  HAUNCH,  OR  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON. 

(See  French  Cookery  ofMtUton^  which  is  well  worth  attention,) 

Mutton  intended  to  be  roasted  may  be  kept  longer  than 

mutton  for  boiling,  as  the  colour  is  of  less  importance. 


LEO,  HAUNCH,  OR  SADDXE  OF  MUTTON.  107 

Cut  out  the  pipe  that  runs  along  the  back-hone,  which 
taints  so  early ;  wipe  off  the  mustiness  that  gathers  on 
the  surface,  and  in  the  folds  and  doublings  of  the  meat, 
and  below  the  flap.  This  and  every  other  piece  of  meat 
may  be  lightly  dusted  with  flour  or  with  pepper,  which, 
by  excluding  the  external  air  and  keeping  off  flies,  helps 
to  preserve  the  meat,  and  can  be  taken  off  in  the  washing 
previous  to  roasting.  A  Ug,  a  chine,  a  saddhy  a  ^n,  a 
hreasty  a  shoulder,  and  the  haunch  or  the  ffigot,  are  the 
roasting  pieces  of  mutton.  Joint  the  roast  well,  whatever 
be  the  piece.  Most  of  the  loose  fat  should  be  cut  from 
the  loin,  which  may  be  stuffed,  and  should  be  papered  at 
first,  to  preserve  the  kidney-fat.  A  modem  refinement 
is  to  put  laver  in  the  dripping-pan,  which,  in  basting, 
imparts  a  high  goitt ;  or  a  large  saddle  may  be  served 
over  a  pound  and  half  of  laver,  stewed  in  brown  sauce 
with  catsup  and  seasonings. 

This  roast  requires  a  rather  quick  fire  to  concentrate 
its  juices ;  onion-sauce,  cucumber-sauce,  and  currant-jelly, 
are  ordered  in  most  Cookery  Books  to  be  served  with 
roast  mutton  ;  but  a  juicy  leg  of  mutton  requires  little 
sauce  save  its  own  gravy,  to  which  the  French  add  a 
squeeze  of  lemon,  and  pepper.  A  saddle  is  roasted  as 
above.  A  double  saddle  has  been  introduced  at  the  Reform 
Club,  which  is  well  adapted  to  large  parties.  It  consists 
of  the  entire  middle  of  the  four  quarters,  leaving  more 
of  the  shoulder  than  in  a  shoulder  saddle,  and  more  of 
the  gigot  than  in  the  loin  saddle.  It  is  trimmed  by  the 
butcher.  Some  French  cooks  serve  roast  mutton  on  French 
beans  stewed  in  good  stock,  with  a  couple  of  onions  cut 
in  dice  and  fried.  The  crowberry  or  red  bilberry,  and 
even  the  berry  of  the  mountain-ash,  as  a  thick  jam, 
makes  a  rustic  sauce  for  venison  or  mountain  mutton. 
Some  modem  gourmands  consider  sweet  jellies  eaten  with 
animal  food  as  not  merely  among  the  vulgarities  but  the 
obsolete  barbarisms  of  cookery  ;  others  consider  red  cuf^ant 
jelly  indispensable :  and  when  will  an  Englishman  give  up 
the  currant  jelly  of  his  boyhood  ? 

N.  B.  —  Potatoes  browned  in  the  dripping-pan,  or  a 
plain  potato-pudding  placed  below  the  dripping  roast,  are 


108  CHAP.  III. — ^ROASTING. 

favourite  accompaniments  to  this  dish  at  our  Club. 
Mashed  turnip  is  another  approved  accompaniment. — See 
Made  Dishes  of  Mutton, 

20.  TO  ROAST  A  SUCKING  PIG. BY  DR.  REDGILL. 

A  SUCKING  PIG  !  un  cochon  de  lait !  France  and  England, 
natural  enemies  on  the  relative  merits  of  ragouts  and 
roast  beef,  are  in  brotherhood  here.  The  age  for  killing, 
on  which  every  gourmand^  whether  insular  or  continental, 
has  set  his  seal,  is  from  ten  days  to  double  that  number. 
Unlike  the  ways  of  other  flesh,  in  this  delicate  creature  — 
this  "  ortolan  with  four  feet,"  as  a  corresponding  member 
calls  him  —  there  is  but  one  step  between  the  gully  of  the 
butcher  and  the  carver's  knife.  In  short,  he  must  be 
killed  ;  but  that  done,  the  sooner  he  is  roasted  and  eaten, 
the  better  is  he  relished  by  those  in  the  secret.  The 
ordinary  way,  after  he  has  received  the  coup  de  gracty  is 
to  take  off  the  hair  by  scalding.*  When  cleaned  from  the 
hair,  the  entrails  taken  out,  and  the  nostrils  and  ears  well 

*  Dr.  Redgill,  though  apt  to  be  somewhat  violent  in  his  prejudices, 
and  entertaining  a  loyal  and  laudable  hatred  of  Cobbktt  and  all  his 
-wrays,  paused  when  Touchwood  communicated  to  him  the  method 
which  that  demagogue — infallible  in  hoff^s  flesh,  and  unequalled  in 
bolting — recommencu  for  removing  the  hair  of  grown  porkers :  "  An^ 
why  not,"  said  the  Nabob,  "of  sucklings?"  "The  flrst  method" 
(scalding,)  says  Cobbbtt,  "  slackens  the  skin,  opens  all  the  pores  of 
it,  and  makes  it  loose  and  flabby,  by  drawing  out  the  roots  of  the  hair. 
The  second  (singeing)  tightens  the  skin  in  every  part,  contracts  all  the 
sinews  and  veins,"  &;c.  This  is  said  in  reference  to  bacon,  no  doubt ; 
but  it  was  for  talent  like  Dr.  Redoill*s  to  apply  it  to  young  pigs. 
In  a  roast  pig,  where  craeMing  is  all  in  all,  this  burning  process  is 
surelv  worthy  of  trial.  The  President,  with  a  meanness  of  jealousy  of 
which  the  good  Doctor  was  incapable,  where  pig  oi  which  he  was  him- 
self to  partake  was  concerned,  had  indeed  kept  this  important  informa- 
tion secret  till  the  scalded  il^ve  of  his  rival  was  smoking  in  the  platter; 
he  then  referred,  with  malicious  triumph,  to  the  singeing  of  sheep's 
head,  reasoning  on  what  a  wenh,  /usiorUess  morsel  it  would  make  if 
scalded.    The  moisture  which  had  overflowed  the  Doctor^s  chops  as  he 

viewed  his  savoury  charge  reposing,  as  might  say,  "in  the 

crispness  of  his  beauty,"  was  arrested  in  its  course.  But  between  a 
singed  pig  in  prospect,  and  a  scalded  pig  on  the  table,  ready  roasted, 
sauce,  eraekHngf  stuffing,  all  alike  inviting,  the  Doctor  did  not  long 
hesitate. 

N.B. — Every  cook  should  be  made  aware,  that,  by  singeing  chickens 
and  fowls,  she  not  only  removes  the  downy  feathers,  but  gives  firmness 
to  the  flesh,  and  tenacitv  to  the  skin ;  and  that  the  chickens,  if  for 
fricassee,  broiling,  &c.  will  cut  up  much  cleaner  when  well  singed. 


SUCKINO-PIO.  109 

cleaned,  the  pig  must  next  be  washed  in  cold  water.  Cut  off 
the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  loosening  and  leaving  on  the 
skin  to  turn  neatly  over.  He  is  now  ready  for  the  stuffing. 
For  this,  take  a  half  ounce  of  mild  sage,  and  a  couple  of 
young  onions  parboiled  ;  chop  these  very  fine,  add  a  cupful 
of  grated  bread-crumbs,  two  ounces  of  good  butter,  and  a 
high  relish  of  pepper  and  salt.  Sew  the  slit  neatly  up, 
(this  the  Doctor  did  with  his  own  hands,)  and  baste  first 
with  brine,  then  with  the  best  fresh  butter  or  salad  oil, 
if  you  would  have  the  croichling  crisp,  which  is  the  true 
and  only  test  of  a  well-roasted  pig.  Some  cooks  tie  up 
the  butter  in  a  bit  of  muslin,  and  diligently  rub  the 
crackling  with  this ;  others  anoint  that  substance  with  a 
bunch  of  feathers  or  a  paste-brush  to  keep  it  constantly 
moist ;  others  again  smear  it  with  beat  white  of  eggs.  A 
pig-iron,  or  some  ingenious  substitute,  must  be  placed  in 
the  centre  of  the  grate,  part  of  the  time,  to  prevent  the 
middle  regions  of  the  animal  from  being  scorched  before 
the  extremities  are  enough  done.  The  legs  must  be 
trussed  back  to  allow  the  inside  to  be  roasted,  and  •— 

«  Yon  *11  see  when  he  *b  enough,  when  hoth  eyes  out| 
Or  if  he  want  the  nice,  concluding  hoat; 
For  if  he  lie  too  long,  the  crackling^s  palled, 
Not  hy  the  dredging-hox  to  be  recalled/^ 

For  sawie — clear  beef  or  veal  gravy,  with  a  squeeze  of 
lemon,  and,  if  approved,  a  little  of  the  stuffing  stirred  into 
the  sauce-tureen.  —  Obs,  Apple-sauce  and  currant-sauce 
are  still  served  with  roast  pig ;  but  sweet  sauces  for 
animal  food  are  losing  favour,  if  not  place.  Even  currant- 
jelly  sauce  with  mutton  and  venison,  which  were  hereto- 
fore considered  one-and-indivisible,  are  now  often  seen 
disjoined.  The  taste  of  the  age  is  decidedly  either  for  the 
pungent,  the  sharp,  the  piquant,  or  the  sub-acid.  Another 
favourite  sauce  is  the  liver  and  brains,  the  forcemeat, 
and  a  few  sprigs  of  sage,  chopped  and  boiled  up  in  the 
gravy.  In  Scotland,  where  the  pig  is  too  often  dished 
whole,  the  brains  cannot  be  obtained  to  enrich  the  sauce, 
which,  along  with  the  trouble  given  to  the  carver,  was 
considered  by  the  Club  a  capital  objection  to  this  mode  of 
dishing. 


i 


110  CHAP.  III. ROASTING. 

*20.    ROAST  PIG. ENGLISH  MODE. 

In  England  the  pig  is  generally  cut  off  the  spit  down 
the  middle  on  both  sides  ;  the  head  is  cut  off  and  divided, 
and  the  jaws  are  stuck  up  on  each  side  for  ornament, 
instead  of  the  pippin,  which  was  wont  of  old  to  be  stuck 
in  the  grinning  chops  of  the  savoury  cherub.  Roast  pig, 
when  not  liked  cold,  should  be  cut  into  neat  fillets,  and 
warmed  in  a  strained  sauce  made  of  thin  melted  butter, 
flour  and  sweet  herbs,  chopped  mushroom8,-and  a  bay  leaf, 
or  in  broth  so  seasoned,  or  in  Bechamel,  He  may  be 
baked,  which  is  an  excellent  and  convenient  mode,  only 
the  cook  or  baker  must  baste  Mm  liberally.  —  See  No.  37. 

For  an  excellent  way  of  dressing  pig,  see  French 
Cookery;  *  also  Scotch  receipt,  National  Dishes. 

21.   TO  ROAST  A  HAUNCH   OR   SHOULDER  OF  VENISON  IN  THE 
ENGLISH  MODE. BY  H.   J.,  ESQ.t 

The  meat  may  be  kept  from  ten  to  twenty  days  by 
proper  care,  and   by  observing   the   precautions   recom- 

*  The  illustrious  members  of  the  Caveau  Modeme,  the  most  distin- 
guished gourmet  and  gourmand  association  in  the  world  (previous  to 
the  establishment  of  our  Clbikum  Club,  the  City,  and  the  Reform 
Clubs,)  steep  their  pig  in  fresh  water  for  four  hours  ;  baste  him  with  a 
bouquet  of  sage  dipped  in  olive  oil;  and  for  forcing  use  fine  herbs 
minced,  steeped  in  lemon-juice,  and  about  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
This,  though  French,  is  no  bad  receipt. — P.  T. 

+  WiNTERBLOSSOM  and  JekyLl,  both  men  of  family  and  fashion, 
.the  former  of  whom  had  for  forty  years,  by  one  means  or  other,  con- 
trived "  to  sit  at  good  men's  feasts,"  took  the  lead  here.  "  Nothing," 
said  Jbkyll,  "  can  be  more  delicious  than  a  fat  buck  from  an  English 
park,  a  *  hart  of  grease,'  in  the  proper  season.  It  is  food  for  heroes  and 
princes;  but,  wifli  the  good  leave  of  our  hostess,  this  *doe  or  roe,  or 
hart  or  hind '  of  the  Caledonian  forest,  would  please  me  fully  better 
bounding  on  its  native  hills  than  smoking  on  this  board.  For  the 
greater  part  of  the  year  these  wild  animals  are  as  sinewy,  lean,  and  dry 
as  the  stalkers  who  pursue  them.  Roast  it  will  not, — ^this  meagre  hard 
meat.  With  all  appliances  to  boot,  it  makes  but  indifferent  pasty ;  but 
after  a  long  morning  of  shooting,  or  for  a  dejeuner  a  la  fourchette,  I 
have  found  a  fricassee  of  it  cleverly  tossed  up— what  you  Scots  call 
venison  coUops,  Mistress  Dods, — v^ry  tolerable  eating," 

"  And  what  yon  Englishers  lick  your  lips  after,"  said  Meg,  not  a 
little  offended.  **  I  have  had  but  little  handling  of  English  fallow  deer; 
but  as  gude  venishon,  haunch  and  shouther,  neck  and  brisket,  has  been 
roasted  in  my  father's  kitchen  as  e'er  coost  horn  or  cloot  in  an  English 
policy  (park) — set  them  up  ! " 

"  For  my  own  private  eating,"  said  Touchwood,  "  a  leg  of  five- 
year-old  heath  wether  mutton  before  all  the  venison  in  the  world;  but 


VENISON.  Ill 

mended  for  preserviDg  mutton.  When  to  be  used,  clean 
it  without  much  wetting,  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  luke- 
warm water.  Unless  venison  is  fat  it  is  useless  to  roast 
it :  and  in  roasting,  the  main  object  is  to  preserve  the  fat. 
For  this  pui-pose,  butter  or  rub  over  with  salad  oil  a  large 
sheet  of  writing  paper,  tie  it  over  the  fat,  and  butter  it  on 
the  outside  once  more.  Have  ready  rolled  a  paste  of  flour 
and  water,  to  the  thickness  of  a  half  inch,  on  another 
sheet  of  paper,  and  with  thb  cover  the  first  paper.  Tie 
the  whole  firmly  on,  and  pour  plenty  of  melted  butter 
over  the  outside  paper,  to  prevent  it  from  catching  to  the 
fire.  Baste  constantly,  and  keep  up  the  fire,  which  must 
be  a  strong,  solid  sirloin  fire,  to  penetrate  tlirough  the 
incasements,  and  roast  the  haunch.  Venison  is  rather 
preferred  underdone  than  overdone^  a  little  red  but  not 
blue,  A  large  haunch  may  be  allowed  from  four  to  six 
hours,  when  wrapped  in  paste.  A  half  hour  before  it  is 
ready  it  must  be  carefully  unswaddledy  placed  near  the 
fire,  basted  with  fresh  butter,  and  lightly  dredged  with 
flour,  to  brown  and  froth.  For  saiice, — Currant-jelly 
melted  in  port  wine,  or  jelly  roughed  in  a  sweetmeat  glass, 
is  still  usually  served.  — Oi«.  A  glass  or  two  of  claret, 
with  three  times  that  quantity  of  gravy  made  of  venison 
or  mutton,  and  a  small  glassful  of  raspberry  vinegar,  all 
very  hot,  was  the  sharp  sauce  most  relished  by  our  Club  ; 
or  a  plain  sharp  sauce  made  of  white-wine  vinegar  or 
lemon-juice  and  the  finest  lump-sugar,  heated  together  in 
a  stone  jar. 

This  is  the  best  mode  of  roasting  venison  where  expense 
is  not  grudged.  In  ordinary  cases  the  paste  may  be  dis- 
pensed with,  —  a  double  paper  will  be  sufficient.  The 
shoulder,  breast,  and  neck,  are  each  roasted ;  but  the  latter 
is  much  better  dressed  as  a  pasty  or  as  soup. — See  Venis<m 
Pies, 

At  small  genuine  gourmand  parties,  as  the  venison  fat 
freezes,  it  is  not  unusual  to  cut  oiF  small  slices  of  fat  and 

on  occasions  of  high  festival,  this  aristocratic  dish  is  indispensable  to 
the  fools  who  preside  and  the  knaves  who  partake: — so  about  it. 
Captain.  The  duUx  we  leave  to  you  and  Wintbrblossom  ;  the  utile 
is  my  own  peculiar  province." 


112  CHAP.  III. — ROASTING. 

learty  and  heat  them  in  a  silver  dish  over  a  spirit-lamp. 
Venison  is  thns  kept  warm  to  perfection.  And  where 
luxury  or  joint-stock  Gourmand  Clubs  afford  silver  dishes, 
these,  besides  retaining  their  heat  long,  when  once 
thoroughly  heated,  are  placed  on  tlie  table  on  concealed 
heaters  filled  with  hot  sand,  and  keep  any  dish  hot. 

22.    TO  ROAST  RED  DEER  OR  ROE. 

Season  the  haunch  highly,  by  rubbing  it  well  with 
mixed  spices.  Soak  it  for  six  hours  in  claret  and  a 
quarter  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  or  the  fresh  juice  of  three 
lemons ;  turn  it  frequently,  and  baste  with  the  liquor. 
Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  venison  was  soaked ;  add  to 
it  fresh  butter  melted,  and  with  this  baste  the  haunch 
during  the  whole  time  it  is  roasting.  Fifteen  minutes 
before  the  roast  is  drawn  remove  the  paper,  and  froth  and 
brown  it  as  directed  in  other  receipts.  For  sauce^  —  Take 
the  contents  of  the  dripping-pan,  which  will  be  very  rich 
and  highly  flavoured  ;  add  a  half  pint  of  clear  brown 
gravy,  drawn  from  venison  or  full-aged  heath  mutton. 
Boil  them  up  together  ;  skim,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  walnut- 
catsup,  and  pour  the  sauce  round  the  roast.  Instead  of  the 
walnut-catsup,  lemon-juice  or  any  of  the  flavoured  vinegars 
most  congenial  to  venison,  and  to  the  taste  of  the  gastronome, 
may  advantageously  be  substituted.  After  the  third  veni- 
son dinner,  it  was  the  recorded  opinion  of  the  Club,  that  it 
is  downright  idiotcy,  a  wanton  and  profligate  sacriflce  of 
the  palate  and  the  stomach  to  the  vanity  of  the  eye,  to 
roast  venison  when  it  is  not  faty  while  so  many  more 
nutritious  and  palatable  modes  of  cookery  may  be  em- 
ployed, in  soup,  pasty,  or  civet.  —  See  Made  Dishes  of 
Venison. 

23.    TO  ROAST  VEAL. 

The  fillet,  the  loin,  the  shoulder,*  or  what  of  it  is  called 
the  ouster,  and  the  breast,  are  roasted ;  the  back  ribs  are  best 
used  for  pie  or  cutlets ;  and  the  scrag  should  be  either  cut  to 
pieces  and  stewed,  and  served  in  thick  stew-soup,  or  made 
into  rice-broth.  Stuffs  the  flap  of  the  fillet  with  forcemeat 
made  as  directed  for  boiled  turkey,  but  with  rather  more 

*  The  nouif  or  large  muscle  bedded  in  firm  fat  near  the  neck,  is  a 
tid-bit  of  the  Parisian  epicure. 


VEAL  AND  LAMB.  113 

lemon-peel.  Sew  in  the  stuffing. — See  Sauce,  and  Stuffing 
for  Turkey,  No.  8,  or  No.  27.  Some  of  it  may  be  worked 
up  with  yolk  of  e^g  into  the  shape  of  pigeon's  eggs,  then 
fried,  or  parboiled  and  browned  below  the  roast,  and 
drained,  and  served  as  a  garnishing,  or  made  into  a  small 
accompanying  dish.*  Be  careful  to  brown  the  outside 
nicely,  which  can  only  be  well  done  by  attention  to  the 
state  of  the  fire.f  The  tendrons  are  often  cut  out  of  a 
breast  of  large  veal,  and  dressed  separately,  as  Tendrons 
de  veau,  No.  629. 

24.    LOIN  AND  BREAST  OF  VEAL. 

A  LOIN  is  roasted  and  served  in  the  very  same  way,  only 
the  kidney  fat,  which  is  so  delicate,  must  be  papered,  and 
the  roast  should  be  more  constantly  basted.  |  The  flap 
should  be  rolled  in  and  skewered  Arm,  and  the  bones 
chopped  off,  to  give  the  dish  a  handsome  shape.  If  a  large 
loin,  the  kidney  must  be  skewered  back  for  a  time  to  roast 
thoroughly.  The  Shoulder  should  always  be  stuffed  ;  and 
the  stuffing  for  this  piece  requires  more  suet,  marrow,  or 
butter,  whichever  is  employed,  than  the  forcemeat  for  the 
fillet.   The  breast  must  be  roasted  with  paper  or  the  caul,  on 

*  Forcemeat  must  be  left  in  a  great  measure  to  the  genius  and  in- 
vention of  the  cook.  Like  spiceries  and  seasoning,  it  may,  in  the 
exercise  of  good  discretion,  be  used  ad  libitum^  bearing  in  mind,  that  it 
is  intended  to  enrich  and  give  piquance  to  the  more  insipid  meats. 
Relishing  ingredients  of  all  kinds  enter  into  the  composition  of  force- 
meat, such  as  ^ated  ham  or  beef,  sausage,  pickled  oysters,  caviare, 
anchovy,  sweet  herbs,  eschalots,  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  morells,  currie 
powder,  cayenne,  &c.  "  Plodding  perseverance,"  said  Jbkyll,  "  may 
make  a  good  roaster,  and  careful  observance  of  rules  a  tolerable  com- 
pounder of  a  made-dish ;  but  the  true  maker  of  forcemeat,  like  the  true 
poet,  must  be  bom." 

i*  *'  A  bit  of  the  brown "  is  esteemed  the  most  delicate  part  of  this 
roast.  It  was  with  this,  liberally  supplied  from  Mr.  Strahan^s  veal, 
that  the  demagogue  Wilkes  not  only  overcame  the  prejudices,  but 
actually  gained  the  heart,  of  Dr.  Johnson, — a  success  which  far  out- 
does tliat  of  Richard  over  Lady  Anne.  But  then  he  helped  a  slice  of 
the  lemon  or  bitter  orange,  which  formed  the  garnishing,  along  with 
the  browned  outside.  Ever,  as  you  would  gain  the  heart  of  a  judicioui 
epicure,  garnish  your  roast  veal  with  slices  of  lemon. — P.  T. 

X  On  Basting. — Cooks  like  Doctors  diflfer  on  many  points,  and  among 
others  on  basting.  We  consider  that  both  basters  and  non-basters  may  bo 
right  or  wrong  according  to  circumstances.  To  baste  mutton  too  much, 
for  example,  would  stew,  not  roast  it ;  but  veal  cannot  be  too  much 
basted.     In  cooking  much  is  left  to  the  intelligence  of  the  cook. 

H 


1  1 4  CHAP.  III. — ROASTING. 

till  nearly  enough  done,  which  both  preserves  and  enriches 
tiie  meat.     Serve  these  roasts  with  their  own  gravy  only. 

25.  TO  ROAST  A  LEG  OR  SADDLE  OF  LAMB. 

A  SADDLE  is  now  considered  a  stylish  joint  for  a  small 
party.  Whether  Leg  or  Saddle,  place  it  at  some  distance 
from  a  sharp  clear  fire,  and  baste  well ;  paper  if  needful : 
It  will  take  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 
Young  lamb,  and  none  other,  is  fit  for  the  use  of  a  gas- 
tronome of  high  gouty — a  hobble-de-hoy  between  lamb  and 
mutton  being  even  coarser  than  a  three  months'  pig. 
Lamb,  like  pig,  and  indeed  all  young  meat,  should  not  be 
long  kept,  if  the  flavour  and  juices  are  to  be  obtained  in 
perfection  ;  time  to  cool  is  considered  quite  sufficient  by 
knowing  gourmands.  It  is  true,  the  fibre  may  be  thready^ 
but  the  juices  and  flavour  will  be  infinitely  superior  to 
that  of  lamb  killed  for  days.  In  roasting  the  hind-quarter^ 
the  flap  of  the  loin  may  be  stufl^ed,  using  the  superfluous 
fat  for  the  forcemeat.*  House  lamb  requires  more  roast-^ 
ing  than  pasture  or  hill  lamb. 

Sauce» — The  gravy  which  flows  from  the  meat  after  the 
dripping  has  been  poured  out,  with  about  a  wine-glassful 
of  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  run  through  the  spit-hole, 
and  cucumber  or  Mint-saitce,  Serve  spinage,  French  beans^ 
cauliflower,  or  green  pease  with  lamb  ;  garnish  with  crisp 
parsley,  or  sprigs  of  cauliflower,  and  always  serve  a  salad. 
The  fore-quarter  should  be  lightly  jointed.  Lamb  must 
be  well  done.     This  and  the  knuckle  of  all  roasts,  or  of  a 

*  This  is  an  old  Scottish  practice,  which  Mbg  Dods  called  *'  Makin^ 
a  pouch.^*  Dr.  Redgill,  who  patronized  all  receptacles  for  forcemeat, 
wheresoever  placed,  vowed  that  a  *^  hind-quarter  of  lamh  should  never 
again  be  roasted  in  his  kitchen  without  a  poticky  This  protuberance 
must  not  be  too  large,  else  it  might  prove  offensive  to  the  eye,  —  an 
organ  that  ought  to  be  diligently  consulted  in  all  matters  conuected 
with  the  table.  "  Open  the  mouth,  and  shut  the  eyes,"  the  maxim  of 
a  great  modem  gastronome,  had  certainly,  Wintbrblossom  said,  been 
fttolen  from  the  luxurious  picture  of  the  Gude  Wife  of  Auchtermuchty''ft 
Sow:  — 

"  And  aye  scho  winked  and  aye  scho  drank." 

Both  Touchwood  and  Rbdgill  rebuked  the  old  beau  for  this  irre- 
verent sally  against  an  authority  for  which  the  latter  entertained  the 
most  profound  respect, — to  wit,  Dr.  Kitchinbr.  On  my  recommenda- 
tion, try  for  once  the  Scotch  practice  of  delicate  young  mashed  cabbage 
below  roast  lamb. — H.  J. 


LAMB  AND  PORK.  115 

ham,  ought  to  have  a  fringe  of  writing  paper  twisted 
neatly  round  it.  When  the  shoulder  is  removed,  tlie 
carver  is  expected  to  squeeze  a  lemon,  and  to  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over  the  rihs,  or,  if  necessary,  to  put  in  a  little  melted 
butter ;  and  to  press  the  parts  together  to  obtain  gravy, 
N.  B. — A  friend,  who  admires  French  cookery,  recom* 
mends  Maitre  d^ Hotel  butter  to  be  put  under  the  shoulder. 
In  Parisian  cookery,  the  lean  parts  of  the  lamb  have  thin 
islices  of  bacon  papered  over  them  while  roasting.  When 
done,  the  shoulder  is  lifted  from  the  breast  so  as  not  to  be 
perceptible,  and  a  Mattre  d*Hat^  sauce  is  slipped  in.  A 
clear  gravy  is  served  in  the  dish,  and  the  larded  parts  are 
glazed.  British  lamb  does  not  require  larding.  —  See 
Made  DisheSy  €md  Pies,  of  lamb, 

26.   TO  ROAST  PORK. 

Pork  takes  more  of  the  fire  than  any  other  kind  of 
meat.  Choose  it  young,  short  in  the  knuckle,  fine  in  the 
grain,  and  thick  but  smooth  in  the  skin.^  Cut  a  hole  in 
the  knuckle,  widen  it  with  the  finger,  and  stuff  it  with 
sage  and  onions  parboiled  and  chopped  fine,  pepper, 
salt,  grated  crumbs,  a  piece  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
made  mustard,  and  an  egi^  to  cement  the  whole.  With  a 
bunch  of  feathers  rub  the  skin  with  salad  oil,  or  fresh 
butter  tied  up  in  a  muslin  rag.  Do  this  frequently  to 
prevent  the  crackling  from  blistering,  and  to  make  it  crisp 
and  brown.  The  crackling  must  be  scored  into  diamonds 
twenty  minutes  before  the  roast  is  done ;  but  unless  it 
look  hide-bound,  and  scorched  or  shrivelled,  the  scoring 
need  not  go  deep.  The  roast  loin  should,  however,  be 
scored  in  stripes,  with  advantage  both  to  the  eating  and 
to  the  appearance.  Some  cooks  add  pulverized  sage  to 
the  basting.  We  only  recommend  this  in  roasting  the 
griskin.  Pork  requires  a  more  pungent  sauce  than  suck- 
^^S  P^S>  y®*  apple-sauce  is  occasionally  used.  Onion- 
sattce  we  like  better,  or  Sauce  Robert ;    and  confidently 

*  If  pork  is  fed  in  sties  at  dairy  &rms,  that  'which  has  fattened  on 

Sotatoes  and  buttermilk  we  consider  much  better,  both  in  flesh  and 
avour,  than  that  which  has  been  fed  on  drenches  of  barley-meal  and 
kitchen  slops.  The  rationale  of  scormg  pork  is  to  increase  the  surfaces 
— in  other  words,  tiie  delicious  jawi^  croquantef  therefore  we  say — scors 
away.— P.  T. 


116  CH^P.  III. — ROA^STING. 

recommend  Dr.  Redg  ill's  sauce  for  pork,  goose,  duck,  or 
rabbit,  (See  No.  292.)  —  French  beans  or  pease-pudding 
are  served  with  roast  pork.  The  French  serve  a  poivrade 
under  a  roast  chine. — Obs,  Sham  House  Lamb,  when  the 
real  is  scarce  and  high-priced,  is  made  by  skinning  a  half- 
grown  porker,  and  cutting  it  of  a  proper  shape. — N.B. 
The  Cieikum  Club  countenanced  no  counterfeits, 

27.    TO  ROAST  TURKEY,  FOWLS,  AND  GAME. 

A  TURKEY  will  keep  a  fortnight,  a  fowl  a  week.  B/ 
care  they  will  keep  longer ;  that  is  to  say,  if  drawn,  hung 
in  a  cool,  dry  air,  wiped  often,  and  seasoned  with  pepper 
in  the  inside,*     The  sinews  of  the  legs  must  be  drawn  ; 

*  Stuffing  for  ttirkey. — So  dexterously,  and  witli  such  an  air  of 
conscious  superiority,  did  Mistress  DoDS  carry  herself,  that,  except  for 
the  new  lights  which  had  dawned  upon  Redgill  in  the  composition  of 
fiuffings^  and  an  affected  dandy  squeamishness  which  overcame  the 
young  Guardsman  about  intssing,  in  this  important  branch  of  the  art, 
the  Club  would,  unquestioning,  have  submitted  to  her  judgment  as  to 
an  oracle  ;  but  these  causes  produced  open  discontents,  and  vehement 
debate,  and — 

"  I  say  sweet  stuffing  is  an  abomination  for  roast  turkey,"  cried 
Redgill,  as  the  knife  of  Winterblorsom  gave  to  view  Meg's 
savoury  composition,  mottled  with  Zante  currants,  and  fragrant  with 
-what  she  termed  **  a  scrape  o*  a  nutmug," — an  immense  grater  fur- 
nished with  this  spicy  fruit  heing,  instead  of  a  lady^s  essence-bottle, 
generally  lodged  in  the  depths  and  labyrinths  of  those  strong,  hlue  cloth 
pockets,  with  scarlet  welting,  of  whose  multifarious  contents  Jekyll 
one  day  made  a  catalogue.  **  Oysters !  oysters  !  madam  ;  there  is  no 
other  turkey  stuffing  worth  the  attention  of  a  Christian  eater."  —  "  Or 
JOinde  attx  Trufes  et  a  la  hroche^"*  said  Touchwood,  animated  by  the 
spirit  of  contradiction,  and  the  ambition  of  displaying  his  science.  **  A 
pound  of  fresh  truffles  chopped,  the  same  quantity  of  rasped  fat  white 
bacon.  Soak  the  mixture  in  the  stew-pan,  with  spiceries  and  a  bay 
leaf.  Stuff  the  turkey,  and  give  him  three  days  to  take  the  flavour  ; 
covering  him  with  slices  of  bacon: — or  chestnuts^''''  continued  he. 
'*  Roast  a  quarter  hundred  and  peel  them  ; — leave  out  ten  or  a  dozen  ; 
pound  in  a  mortar,  with  the  liver  parboiled;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
ham,  or  of  pork  sausage  well  grated  or  pounded,  a  little  basil  and 
parsley,  mace,  pepper,  salt,  our  friend  Meg''8  ntttmug,  and  a  good  piece 
of  butter;  stuff  and  tie  the  bird  at  neck  and  vent : — roast  him,  and  tell 
me  how  you  like  him.  For  sauce,  the  remaining  chestnuts  chopped  and 
stirred  in  a  thickened  strong  gravy,  with  a  glass  of  old  Sherry  or 
Maderia.  Garnish  with  sliced  orange.  This,  sir,  is  a  turkey  for  you  ; 
or,  hetter  still,  a  roast  turkey,  with  rolls  of  sausage  fried,  or  sausage 
balls  served  with  it, — '  an  Alderman  in  chains,*  as  those  waggish  rogue», 
the  London  sturdy  beggars,  call  it,  —  their  favourite  regale  at  the  close 
of  a  prosperous  day."  Redgill  despised  the  chestnut  receipt ;  but 
turkey  and  sausage,  the  ambrosia  of  the  bousing  ken,  seemed  worthy  o| 


TURkEY,  FOWLS,  AND  GAME.  Il7 

(those  of  fowls,  pheasants,  &c.  should  all  be  drawn,  espe- 
cially when  the  birds  are  old.)  Press  down  the  breast-bone 
even  more  than  in  a  fowl,  to  make  the  bird  look  plump : 
be  careful,  in  drawing,  to  preserve  the  liver  whole,  and 
not  to  break  the  intestines.  For  stuffing^  take  a  breakfast 
cupful  of  bread  finely  grated,  two  ounces  of  minced  beef- 
suet,  or  marrow,  a  little  parsley  parboiled  and  finely  shred, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-peel  grated,  two  sprigs  of  lemon* 
thyme,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt.  Mix  the  whole 
well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  couple  of  eggs.  Do  not  stuff  too 
full ;  and,  with  another  e^^  work  up  what  remains  into 

an  epicure^s  serious  investigation ;  so  the  next  bird  vras  ordered  to  be 
dressed  beggar-fashion. 

*^  And  why,  Dame/*  said  Jbkyll,  as,  thrown  back  in  his  chair,  he 
eyed  the  roasted  turkey  with  a  languid  air  of  half-affected  disgust, — 
"  Why  produce  the  unhappy  bvUMy-jock  vi\^  his  head — forty  mortal 
gashes  upon  it  —  tucked  under  his  wing,  while  his  gizzard  and  liver, 
Urger  than  life,  nace  his  other  fin  ?  This  affair  of  dining,  after  all, 
has  its  hhtise.  Or  why  those  rough-footed  Scots,**  pointing  to  a  brace 
of  moorfowl,  "  in  their  spurs  and  pantaloons,  with  their  pretty  inno- 
cent heads  tucked  under  their  arms,  like  that  of  St.  Denis  in  the  pictures 
of  a  book  of  miracles  ? — ^nay,  worse,  I  protest,"  and  he  lifted  his  eye- 
glass,— "  here  too  are  ducks,  if  I  don*t  mistake ;  but  indeed  there  is  no 
mistaking —  miserable  amphibise !  their  saffron  web-feet  drawn  up, 
and  spread  in  such  goodly  sort,  as  if  in  act  to  swim . 

.  .  .  Our  refined  patrons,  Drs.  Kitchtnbr  and  Thusslbr, 
direct  that  the  feet  be  roasted  delicately  crisp,  as  some  people  are  very 
fond  of  them." 

"  Cut  off  a  turkey's  head.  Captain  Jackall !  "  broke  forth  Mkg,  with 
indignant  astonishment, — ^  A  roasted  turkey  I  Do  you  tak*  us  for 
bom  ignoramuses  on  this  side  of  the  Border  ?  " — "  Cut  off  the  heads," 
responded  Rbdoill,  "  of  turkey  and  wildfowl !  Surely,  my  young 
friend,  you  forget  yourself."  The  Doctor,  a  loyal  hearty-dining  church' 
man,  had,  since  the  beginning  of  the  French  Revolution,  seen  but  too 
much  of  this  innovating  "  off-with-his-head  "  spirit  abroad.  "  There 
was  no  knowing,"  he  said,  *'  where  its  devastations  were  to  stop  ;  it 
began  with  anointed  kings."  —  **  And  may  safely  end  with  basted 
turkeys,"  rejoined  Jekyll  ;  and  he  continued — **  At  all  ioni^i  tables, 
Mr.  WiNTBRBLOSSOM,  though  I  do  not  pretend  to  think  better  of 
mankind  than  my  neighbours,  it  would  be  but  a  well-bred  stretch  of 
faith,  to  take  for  granted  that  turkey  was  not  goose,  nor  pigeon 
grouse,  without  such  testimony  as  those  bloody  heads  and  feathered 
heels  afford.  Why,  the  panache  of  his  own  tail-feathers,  which  my 
respected  grandmother  was  wont  to  stick  into  the  rump  of  her  roasted 
pheasant,  or  even  the  surtout  of  his  entire  goodly  plumage  with  which 
our  ancestors  invested  the  lordly  peacock,  was  not  more  barbarous  than 
this  absurd  fashion."  Loud  rose  the  clamour  of  cooks,  scullions,  and 
amateurs,  as  this  new  heresy  was  broached;  and  the  refined  Jbkyll,  if 
not  convinced,  was  at  least  silenced. 


118  CHAP,  III. BOASTING. 

balls,  to  be  fried  and  served  with  the  turkey.  To  this 
stufiiDg,  parboiled  sausage  meat  may  be  added,  or  grated 
ham,  or  oysters  chopped.  (The  same  stuffing  is  suitable 
for  a  large  fowl,  and  in  both  cases  the  meat  may  be 
omitted.)  Paper  the  breast.  Score  the  gizzard.  Season 
it  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  and  dip  in  melted 
butter,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs ;  cover  the  gizzard  and 
liver  with  veal  or  lamb  caul,  or  buttered  paper,  and  roast 
them,  fixing  them  under  the  pinion,  and  basting  liberally. 
A  very  large  turkey  will  take  nearly  as  long  to  roast  as  a 
sirloin.  These  are  not  the  most  delicate  kind.  A 
moderate-sized  turkey  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half 
to  two  hours.  The  fire  must  be  clear  and  sharp ;  dredge 
with  flour  when  laid  down.  (Fresh  butter  is  always  best 
for  basting  white-meats ;  but  salted  butter  may  be 
washed.)  Keep  the  turkey  far  from  the  fire  at  first,  that 
the  stuffing  and  breast  may  be  done  through,  and  fifteen 
minutes  before  it  is  finished,  remove  the  paper  that  the 
breast  may  be  delicately  browned.  jSaitce — Bread-sauce, 
with  gravy  in  the  dish,  oyster-sauce,  celery-sauce,  egg- 
sauce.  Hen  turkeys  are  the  most  delicate,  and  the 
whitest ;  they  are  consequently  preferred  for  boiling. — See 
p>  Hash  and  Devil  turkey  ;  also  Made  Dishes  of  Poultry, 
and  French  Cookery  of  Poultry, 

An  excellent  Stuffing  for  a  Turkey  or  Hare,  French  fashion, 
— Chop,  and  afterwards  pound  in  a  mortar,  half  i\  pound 
of  beef-suet,  equal  bulk  (but  not  weight)  of  soaked  bread 
crumbs,  lemon  peel,  pai-sley,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme  chopped, 
pepper,  salt,  two  beat  eggs,  and  a  little  milk  or  broth. 
This  makes  an  excellent  stuffing.  (See  also  Quenelles, 
French  Cookery,) — French  cooks  are  celebrated  for  their 
skill  in  forcemeat ;  one  half  of  their  merit  in  this  depart- 
ment consists  in  their  patience  at  the  mortar.  Turkey 
and  other  poultry  are  now  often  served  or  garnished  with 
fresh  water-cresses ;  which  often  suits  better  than  raw 
parsley,  if  it  could  be  as  easily  got. 

N.B. — A  test  of  turkey,  pheasant,  fowl,  &c.  being  ready 
for  the  spit,  is  their  falling  down  when  suspended  in  the 
larder  by  a  few  of  the  tail  feathers  left  for  this  experiment 
when  the  birds  are  picked.  For  roasting,  choose  full-fed, 
white-legged,  large  fowls — smaller  ones  may  do  for  boiling. 


'  OOOSB.  119 

28.  TO  ROAST  ▲  0006E. 

A  GOOSE,  if  well  cleaned  and  seasoned  inside  with  pepper, 
will  keep  in  cold  weather  for  a  fortnight  or  more,  and 
improve.  Geese  are  in  perfection  from  Michaelmas  to 
ChriBtmas.  In  Scotland,  a  goose  is  often  rabhed  with 
isalt  for  ten  days  «before  roasting.  Tn  England,  in  rural 
situations,  it  is  often  first  parboiled.  Where  geese  are 
rank  this  may  be  advisable,  but  not  otherwise,  as  it  dries 
the  flesh.  After  the  goose  is  carefully  picked  and  singed, 
let  it  be  well  washed  and  dried  with  a  cloth.  Stuffing — Fou  r 
well  sized  onions,  about  fourth  their  bulk  of  sageundried,and 
half  the  liver ;  parboil  slightly,  and  chop  these  y^ry  fine :  add 
a  bit  of  butter,  yolk  of  tf;g^  and  a  cupful  of  grated  bread ; 
—-or,  ^  la  bourgeoUUj  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes, 
sind  season  rather  highly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Witli 
this  stuff  the  goose.  All  stuffing,  containing  bread-crumbs, 
should  be  allowed  room  to  swell,  and  indeed  all  forcemeat 
whatever,  as  it  expands  more  or  less- in  the  dressing.  Spit 
(he  goose  ;  fasten  tightly  at  the  neck  and  rump.  Paper 
the  breast,  but  remove  .the  paper  when  it  has  swelled.  A 
goose  requires  a  brisk  fire,  well  kept  up  ;  and  will,  ac- 
cording to  size,  take  from  one  hour  to  two  hours  to  roast. 
The  breast  must  not  be  allowed  to  sink.  AppUsauce  is, 
by  prescriptiony  served  with  goose.  For  delicate  cookery, 
this  bird  requires  a  drawn  gravy  in  the  dish,  its  own  being 
often  rank  and  oily.  —  Obs,  To  apple-sauce  the  Cleikum 
Club  preferred  onion-sauce ;  better  still,  Redgill^s  sauce 
for  roast  pork,  duck,  or  goose,  and  Sauce  Robert.  —  Nos. 
292,  293.  The  gravy  may  either  be  poured  into  the 
goose  by- the  carver  making,  for  this  purpose,  a  slit  in  the 
apron,  or  served  in  a  tureen  in  thick  melted  butter ;  a 
glass  of  port  or  (better)  claret  b  by  knowing  gourmands 
poured  into  the  goose  :  if  so  let  it  be  hot.  In  Scotland, 
it  was  customary  to  garnish  with  slices  of  raw  onion,  but 
the  practice  is  obsolete.  Green  Geese  are  roasted  in 
the  same  manner ;  but  for  these  thready  younglings  less 
sage  and  onion  is  required.  Season  them  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  into  the  inside  as  an 
interior  basting.  Froth  and  brown  nicely.  The  gravy  h 
preserved  and  served,  but  more  gi*avy  must  generally  be 
added.      Gooseberry-sauce,    or.  Redgill's    sauce.       (See 


126  CHAP.  III. ROASTING. 

Sauces.)  —  Garnish  with  grated  crust  of  bread.*  Salted 
geese  are,  in  some  parts  of  Ireland  and  Scotland,  served 
with  a  cabbage-sauce,  or  cabbage  stewed  in  good  broth. 
The  French  roast  geese  with  chestnuts,  as  in  the  receipt 
for  Turkey,  (Note,  p.  116.)  The  liver  is  chopped  with  the 
chestnuts,  and  both  are  fried  together  in  lard  before  the 
goose  is  stuffed  with  them.f  Onions,  fried  in  the  goose 
fat,  is  a  favourite  accompaniment  with  some  old-fashioned 
provincial  eaters.  Rings  of  large  onions  cooked  in  strong 
consomme  a,ve  more  delicate,  but  not  better. 

29.  TO  ROAST  DUCKS,  TEAL,  AND  WIDGEONS. 

Keep  ducks  three  days :  if  young  they  are  ready  when 
killed.  If  a  pair  are  to  be  roasted,  one  may  be  stuffed  as 
directed  for  a  goose,  with  less  than  half  the  quantity  of 
stuffing ;  and  to  suit  all  tastes  the  other  may  be  done  plain, 
only  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.  From  three  quarters 
of  an  hour  to  a  whole  hour  will  roast  ducks.  Baste  well, 
and  dust  lightly  with  flour  to  make  them  froth,  and  look 

*  The  livers  of  geese  and  poultry  are  esteemed  a  great  delicacy  by 
tome  aoufmands  ;  and  on  the  Continent  great  pains  are  taken  to  pro- 
cure fat  overgrown  livers.  The  methods  employed  to  produce  this 
diseased  state  of  the  animals  are  as  disgusting  to  rational  taste  as 
revolting  to  humanity.  The  geese  are  crammed  with  fat  food,  deprived 
of  drink,  kept  in  an  intolerably  hot  atmosphere,  and  fastened  by  the 
feet  (we  have  heard  of  nailing)  to  the  shelves  of  the  fattening-cribs. 
The  celebrated  Strasburg  pies,  which  are  esteemed  so  great  a  delicacy 
that  they  are  often  sent  as  presents  to  distant  places,  are  enriched  with 
these  enormous  livers.  It  is,  however,  a  mistake  that  these  pies  are 
wholly  made  of  this  artificial  animal  substance. 

In  England,  the  goose  is  sacred  to  St.  Michael ;  in  France,  to  St. 
Martin  ;  in  Scotland,  where  dainties  are  not  going  every  day, 

"  'Twas  Christmas  sent  its  savoury  goose." 
The  Michaelmas  eoose  is  said  to  owe  its  origin  to  Queen  Elizabeth > 
dining  on  one  at  -the  table  of  an  English  baronet  on  that  happy  day 
when  she  received  tidings  of  the  dispersion  of  the  Spanish  Armada;  in 
commemoration  of  which  she  ordered  the  Goose  to  make  its  appearance 
every  Miehaelmas.  In  some  places,  particularly  Caithness,  geese  are 
cured  and  smoked,  apd  are  highly  relishing.  Smoked  Solan  geese  are 
well  known  as  contributing  to  the  abundance  of  a  Scottish  breakfast, 
though  too  rank  and  fishy-liavoured  for  unpractised  palates.  Slices  are 
eaten  as  whets,  or  relishes. 

The  goose  has  made  some  figure  in  the  English  history.  The  churl- 
ishness of  Richard  Cceur  de  Lion,  a  sovereign  usually  good-natured, 
and  distinguished  for  an  insatiable  appetite  and  vigorous  digestion,  in 
an  affair  of  roast  goose,  was  the  true  cause  of  his  captivity  in  Germany. 

f  A  young  salted  goose  answers  very  well  dressed  as  duck  in  sanr 
erouie, — P.  T. 


\ 


t>rCKS  AND  PHEASANTS.  121 

of  a  rich,  warm  brown.  Green  pease  ai*e  indissolubly 
allied  with  ducklings. — Sauce,  Apple-sauce,  onion,  or  sage 
sauce,  or  Dr.  Redoill's  sauce  for  goose,  duck,  &c.  (See 
Nos.  292, 293.) — Wild  Ducks  are  roasted  in  the  same  way, 
but  made  very  crisp  ;  and  as  they  are  smaller,  they  take 
less  time,  from  twenty-five  minutes  to  half  an  hour. — Sauce, 
Pleydel's  sauce  for  wild  fowl ;  Orange  Gravy-sauce ; 
or  No.  296 — The  above  receipt  is  also  applicable  to  Teal 
and  JVid^eons, — Obs.  Some  epicures  prefer  all  wild  fowl 
underdone,  to  have  the  flavour  in  perfection ;  and  to  secure 
this,  they  eat  it  without  sauce.  All  Sorts  of  wild  fowl 
require  to  be  longer  kept  than  your  "  tame  villatic  fowl," 
because  thev  are  drier  in  the  flesh,  for  the  same  reasons 
that  a  city  Alderman  is  more  abounding  in  juices  than  a 
Backwoodsman  or  an  Indian  hunter.  —  See  Hashed  Duck, 
Made  Dishes,  S^c, 

30.    TO  ROAST  PHEASANTS  AND  PARTRIDGES. 

'  These  birds  are  trussed  in  the  same  manner :  the  craw 
is  drawn  out  by  a  slit  in  the  neck,  the  head  is  left  on,  and 
the  legs  of  the  partridge  are  tucked  across  each  other.  Put 
a  little  fresh  butter  inside  ;  baste  frequently,  and  dust 
with  flour  to  froth  ;  the  fire  must  be  brisk  and  clear.  A 
partridge  will  take  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes; 
a  pheasant  from  thirty  to  forty-five.  Make  a  round  of 
toast ;  having  pared  off  the  outer  crust,  moisten  it  in  hot 
water  or  broth,  press  and  butter  it ;  and  soak  it  in  the 
dripping  in  the  pan,  and  serve  the  partridges  on  it.  This 
is  lighter  than  fried  bread-crumbs  which  many  good  cooks 
use  for  these  birds.  Pheasants  require  made  gravy.  It 
may  be  made  of  scrag  of  mutton,  or  knuckle  of  veal,  but 
is  better  of  beef,  and  best  of  all  of  game,  when  that  is  in 
plenty.  (See  Brown  Gravy-satice,  Bread-sauce,  or  Rice- 
sauce,) — Obs,  We  do  not  recommend  the  ornament  of  the 
pheasant's  best  tail-feather  stuck  in  his  tail ;  though  such 
things  are  still  heard  of.  Guinea  and  pea  fowl  are  dressed 
and  served  exactly  as  pheasants ;  and  by  a  fiction  of 
cookery,  when  a  brace  cannot  be  procured,  a  fowl  is,  on 
occasion,  converted  into  a  pheasant. 

On  keeping  Game. — Necessity,  and  thevanity  of  producing 
at  a  dinner  what  is  rare  and  far-travelled,  must  first  have 


123  CHAF.  III. — ^ROASTINO. 

introduced  among  cleanly,  civilized  nations,  the  custom  of 
over-keeping  game,  till  in  time  it  came  to  be  considered  as 
essential  to  i\s  perfection  that  it  be  kept  till  putrid,  and  that 
what  has  not  flavour  may  at  least  have/um^.  It  is  at  the 
same  time  indispensable  thatgame  be  kept  till  ^en<^er,and  the 
flavour  brought  out.  The  same  principle  applies  here  as  in 
keeping  pears  and  plums  to  mellow,  after  they  are  gathered. 
Crame,  as  we  have  said  before,  must  be  longer  kept  than 
domestic  fowls,  to  be  in  proper  condition  for  Jthe  table.  A 
great  deal  has  been  said  on  preserving  provisions  of  late 
years ;  but  we  are  afraid  little  has  been  done.  We  are  certain 
that  very  few  of  the  practices  recommended  have  been 
adopted,  and  chiefly  because  that,  when  tried,  they  were 
found  wanting.  Form,  colour,  and  material  may  be  pre- 
served ;  but  flavour,  and  even  nutritious  qualities,  have  fled 
before  the  pyroligneous  acid,  and  the  genius  of  Appert ; 
and  mummy  partridges,  and  embalmed  green  pease,  sur- 
vive to  please  the  eye  and  fill  the  table — ^and  this  so  far  is 
highly  desirable — but  sadly  disappoint  the  palate.  Game 
— we  speak  not  of  giving  pheasants  and  grouse  to  immor- 
tality— ^may  be  kept  good  a  long  while,  by  drawing,  crop^ 
ping,  picking,  and  (without  washing)  rubbing  with  equal 
parts  of  salt,  pounded  loaf-sugar,  and  a  little  pepper.  It 
is  a  great  mistake  to  wet,  much  less  to  wash,  any  fresh 
thing  intended  to  be  kept.  Charcoal  and  chloride  of  soda, 
may  also  be  employed  to  retard  putrefaction.  Lay  a  thin 
muslin  cloth  over  the  birds,  and  place  lumps  of  charcoal 
under  them  and  over  the  cloth.  Charcoal  baskets  and  closets 
may  be  had  on  the  scale  adapted  to  small  establishments. 
We  have  no  faith  in  charcoal  doing  much  good  in  the  way 
of  restoring  what  is  much  tainted,  though  this  is  often 
confidently  asserted.  The  knife  applied  to  the  worst 
pai*ts,  scraping  and  constantly  removing  the  musti- 
ness,  and,  when  to  be  used,  washing  with  hot  water,  is  the 
preferable  method.  Game,  when  it  is  wished  to  be 
kept  to  grace  a  gala  day,  besides  the  above  precautions, 
may  be  parboiled  or  par-roasted ;  in  short,  kept  for  ten 
minutes  in  boiling  water,  or  laid  to  the  fire  for  seven 
minutes,  which  must  be  made  to  touch  all  parts.  Then 
dry  thoroughly,  and  to  keep,  use  salt,  sugar,  and  pepper. 


PIGEONS.  123 

as  above.  Before  roastiDg,  cleanse  from  this  seasoning, 
and  season  with  a  little  fresh  pepper.  But  the  preserva- 
tion of  game  depends  as  much  on  the  sportsman  as  on  the 
cook.  A  bird  or  hare  much  mangled  by  shot  will  taint 
far  more  quickly  than  one  killed  in  a  *^  gentlemanly  way;" 
and  what  has  fallen  into  the  water,  than  that  which  drops 
on  land.  For  some  seasons  back  the  sonthem  sportsmen, 
who  frequent  the  Highland  moors^  have  paid  great  atten- 
tion to  preserving  and  packing  their  game.  Staffing  witli 
and  packing  in  heps  is  found  to  answer  better  than  any 
other  method  yet  employed,  and  is  now  generally  resorted 
to.  The  date  of  shooting  is  written  on  a  card  tied  to  the 
birds  ;  so  that  the  cook  cannot  be  led  astray. 

31.    TO  ROAST  WOODCOCKS,  SNIPBS,  KATBKS,  RAILS,  AKO 

ORTOLAIVS. 

Keep  them  till  tender.  They  must  not  be  drawn,  as 
the  intestines  are  considered  a  delicacy.  (This  rule  ad- 
mits of  exceptions.  The  proverb  says,  ^  what  is  one  man's 
meat  is  another  man's  poison.")  Hook  to  your  bottle-jack 
or  tie  them  on  a  bird-spit,  which  fix  to  the  spit,  and  lay 
down  to  a  clear  brisk  fire.  Lay  slices  of  moistened  toast 
in  the  dripping-pan,  to  catch  the  iraiL  These  birds  and 
moor-game  require  to  be  deluged  with  butter  in  roasting. 
Dish  them  on  the  toasts,  pour  clear  brown  beef  or  game 
gravy  very  hot  into  the  dish,  and  set  it  on  a  hot  table,  or 
over  steam,  or  a  spirit  lamp.  These  birds  will  take  from 
twenty-five  to  thirfcy  minutes,  in  proportion  to  the  size. — 
Sauce,  Pletdel's  sauce  for  wild  fowl.  Garnish  with  slices 
of  lemon,  or  bitter  orange,  and  fried  bread-crumbs.  Obs, 
French  cooks  stuff  woodcocks  with  chopped  truffles,  and 
either  roast  them,  or  stew  them  with  fire  under  and  aver 
the  pot.  The  irail  is  sometimes  cooked  in  gravy  and 
butter,  and  poured  over  the  toast. 

French  cooks  lay  slices  of  leinon  over  the  breasts  of  the 
partridges,  on  these  slices  of  lard,  and  above  all  fasten 
paper.  Dr.  Hunter  recommends  a  stuffing  of  minced  beef 
or  veal  for  a  cock-pheasant,  the  flesh  of  which  is  rather 
insipid  to  English  palates.  This  may  be  more  acceptable 
to  some  than  the  French  practice  of  enriching  these  birds  by 
larding. 


124  CHAP.  HI. — ^ROASTIKO. 

82.    TO  ROAST  GROUSE,  BLACK  COCK,  AND  PTARMIGAK. 

Truss  with  the  head  under  the  wing.  They  require 
a  sharp,  clear  fire,  must  he  well  basted,  and  not  oirer* 
done.  Serve  on  a  buttered  toast  soaked  in  tlie  dripping-pan, 
and  put  brown  beef  gravy  in  the  dish.  In  this  and  the 
above  receipt  we  recommend  plain  melted  butter  instead  of 
meat- gravy,  to  those  who  wish  to  retain  the  native  flavour 
of  the  birds. — Rice-saucCy  or  Pleydel's  Sauce  ;  also  Orange* 
gram/, —  Obs^  The  French  often  soak  the  toasts  in  lemon- 
juice  before  they  are  laid  in  the  dripping-pan,  an  elegant 
practice. 

M.  Soyer,  an  artiste  of  some  authority,  gives  many  receipts  of 
his  own  invention  for  grouse.  His  grouse  a  la  Rob  Roy,  is  in  one 
Rense  piquant.  He  wraps  the  birds,  when  to  be  roasted,  in  fat 
bacon  and  sprigs  of  heather,  moistened  with  a  glass  of  whisky  ! 
His  grouse  d  la  Bonnie  lassie,  will  be  a  favourite  with  young 
sportsmen,  though,  except  the  name,  it  has  no  particular  claim  to 
notice.  His  grouse  salad,  however,  the  Salade  de  Groute  d  la  Soyer, 
is  magnifique.  The  recipe  may  be  thus  abridged  :  Put  a  thin  rim  of 
butter  round  a  dish,  and  on  this  stick  a  high  border  of  hard  boiled 
eggs  cut  into  four  lengthwise,  with  a  bit  cut  off  to  make  them  stand. 
Fill  the  centre  with  a  nice  fresh  salad,  and  tastefully  ornament 
the  egg  border  with  fillets  of  anchovies,  cut  beetroot,  or  gher- 
kins ;  cut  three  under-roasted  grouse  into  neat  small  pieces ;  and 
have  prepared  a  sauce  made  of  two  table-spoonsful  of  finely 
chopped  eschalots  ;  two  of  pounded  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
two  table-spoonsful  of  chopped  tarragon,  and  chervil,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  two  of  salt :  with  these,  gradu- 
ally mix  twelve  table-spoonsful  of  salad  oil,  and  three  of  Chili 
vinegar  :  mix  all  well  and  put  the  mixture  on  the  ice.  "  When 
ready  to  serve,''  continues  our  authority,  "  whip  half  a  pint  of 
cream  rather  stiff,  and  add  to  the  sauce  :  pour  a  little  over  the 
salad,  upon  which  lay  first  the  worst  pieces  of  the  grouse,  over 
which  pour  more  sauce,  dressing  them  pyramidically."  This  salad, 
M.  Soyer  confesses,  is  better  adapted  to  gentlemen  than  ladies. 
It  was  first  served  in  Paris  at  a  competition  of  the  most  cele- 
brated artistes  of  the  Stove,  on  whose  head  certain  English 
noblemen  and  gentlemen  had  bets.  What  cook  can  fail  to  envy 
the  Chef  of  the  Reform  Club,  when  he  is  able  to  say,  "  My  first 
course,  being  full  of  novelty,  gained  the  approbation  of  the  whole 
party;"  but  the  salade  created  such  an  unexpected  effect,  that  in 
brief  the  inventor  was  invited  to  the  honour  of  the  sitting,  and 
over  several  rosades  of  exquisite  Lafitte,  it  was  christened  by 
General  Sir  Alexander  Duff,  who  presided  over  the  noble  party, 
"  Salade  de  Grouse  a  la  Soyer  ! "  These  are  moments  which 
occur  but  once  in  a  man's  life.  This  was  M.  Soyer's  WatfHoo, 
or  Trafalgar;  his  Bridge  of  Lodi ;  his  Austerlitz. 


PIGEONS — LARKS — ^HARB,  &C.  125 

33.    TO  ROAST  PIGEONS. 

Let  them  be  cropped  and  drawn  as  soon  as  killed,  and 
wiped  inside  as  well  as  possible.  They  will  be  ready  for 
the  spit  in  from  six  to  forty-eight  hours,  according  to  age  and 
the  weather ;  and  are  in  high  season  from  June  to  Novem- 
ber. If  kept  long,  they  lose  their  flavour.  When  to  be 
dressed,  they  must^  (when  drawn,)  be  well  washed  in 
several  waters ;  and  great  care  must  be  taken  (as  in  all 
birds)  not  to  break  the  intestines  in  drawing  them.  Stuff 
with  parsley  parboiled  and  chopped,  and  about  the  size  of 
a  nutmeg  of  butter  for  each  bird,  with  a  few  bread-crumbs, 
and  the  liver  chopped,  if  it  is  liked.  Season  rather  highly 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Twenty  to  twenty- five  minutes 
will  roast  them.  Dust  with  flour,  and  froth,  (if  yoii  like 
frothing,)  with  fresh  butter.  Parsley  and  butter,  or  plain 
melted  butter,  is  served  in  the  dish,  and  is  more  suitable 
for  mild-flavoured  birds  than  meat  gravy,  which  has  so 
strong  a  predominating  flavour  of  its  own. — Bread-saucey 
Orange  Gravysaucey  or  Ricesauc4,  —  Serve  with  dressed 
French  beans,  asparagus,  or  cucumber.  Garnish  with 
fried  bread-crumbs,  or  slices  of  bitter  orange. 

84.    TO  ROAST  LARKS  AND  WHBATSARS. 

When  well  cleaned,  dip  them  in  beat  yolk  of  e^^,  and 
roll  them  in  bi'ead-crumbs.  Put  a  small  bit  of  butter  in 
each  bird.  Spit  on  a  lark-spit,  and  fasten  that  to  the  spit, 
or  hook  to  your  bottle-jack.  Baste  with  plenty  of  good 
butter,  which  is  most  essential  in  roasting  all  tlie  smaller 
birds.  Strew  sifted  bread-crumbs  over  the  birds  as  they 
roast.  From  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  will  do  them. 
Serve  fried  bread-crumbs,  and  garnish  with  fiied  crumbs 
or  crisp  parsley. — Obs,  Some  good  cooks  put  a  thin  small 
slice  of  bacon  between  the  birds  when  they  are  spitted,  to 
nourish  them.     This  is  good  practice. 

85.    TO  ROAST  HARE,  FAWN,  OR  KID. 

A  Hare  will  keep  from  a  fortnight  to  three  weeks,  if  pro- 
perly managed  ;  and  is  seldom  fit  for  roasting  before  eight 
days,  though  for  soup  it  should  be  used  nearly  as  soon  as 
killed^  A  hare  keeps  best  when  not  opened  for  some  days ; 
and  the  vent  and  mouth  may  be  tied,  to  prevent  the  air 
from  hastening  the  process  of  putrefaction.     When  kept 


126  CHAP.  III.— ROASTING. 

four  days  in  this  state  (if  the  object  is  to  keep  it  as  long 
as  possible,)  it  may  be  paunched,  and  the  heart  and 
liver  taken  out  and  scalded.  Wash  and  soak  it  in 
water  when  to  be  dressed,  changing  the  water  several 
times.  Make  a  little  slit  in  the  neck,  and  in  every  part 
where  the-  blood  has  gathered,  to  let  it  out.  Drip  dry,  and 
truss^  it.  An  old  hare  is  not  fit  for  roasting.  Even  a 
young  hare  makes  but  a  dry  roast,  so  that  a  rich  and 
relishing  stuffing  is  a  sine  qua  non  when  dressing  it  in 
this  manner.  —  For  stuffing^  take  the  grated  crumbs  of  a 
penny-loaf,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  or  three 
ounces  of  marrow,  a  small  quantity  of  parsley  and  eschalot, 
a  boned  anchovy,*  a  tea-spooiif ul  of  grated  lemon-peel,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  nutmeg  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
a  little  cayenne,  and  the  liver  parboiled  and  chopped,  if  in 
a  sound  state, — and  no  liver  should  be  used  if  unsound. 
Mix  the  ingredients  with  the  yolk  of  an  %^'^y  and  the 
crumbs  soaked  in  a  very  little  red  wine.  Put  this  in  the 
liare,  and  sew  it  closely  up.  Baste  well  with  plenty  of 
butter  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ;  then  drain  the  drip- 
ping-pan into  a  basin  ;  and  baste  with  cream  and  yolk  of 
^%%  well  beat,  and  flour  lightly.  It  will  take  from  an 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  For  sauce,  venison  sauce, 
or  the  drippings  of  the  hare  mixed  with  cream,  or  with 
claret,  a  squeeze  of  a  lemon,  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  and 
a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  boiled  up  with  the  skimmed  drippings 
strained  and  highly  seasoned  ;  also  currant  jelly.  (See 
Hashed  Hare^  Hare  Collops,  Made  Dishes  of  Hare,  &c.) — 
Obs.  In  France  a  roasted  hare  is  always  larded  on  the 
back  ;  but  the  French  seldom  roast  this  dry  animal  from 
choice.  —  For  an  excellent  method  of  dressing  hare,  see 
Civet  and  Lievre  en  dauhe,  French  Cookery, 

By  a  fiction  of  cookery,  the  lean  inside  of  a  large  sirloin 
is  cut  up,  stuffed  as  a  hare,  skewered,  tied  with  tape,  and 
roasted.  It  requires  to  be  highly  seasoned,  and  in  truth 
eats  much  better  than  most  roasted  hares.  In  rural  situa- 
tions, a  hare  is  often  stuffed  with  mashed  potato,  grated 


*  We  do  not  like  anchovy  to  meat  dishes  ourselves,  hut  tolerate 
it  as  a  relish  admired  hy  some  contemporary  authorities. 


ON  BAKING  MEAT,  ]  27 

ham,  suet,  and  onion,  and  highly  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  allspice ;  nor,  though  a  plain,  is  this  a  bad  fashion. 

36.  A  young  Fawn  is  treated  precisely  as  a  hare,  but 
must  not  be  kept  above  one  day.  When  somewhat  grown, 
it  may  be  roasted  in  quarters,  or  in  a  haunch  or  a  saddle. 
Cover  with  veal  or  lamb  caul  in  roasting,  or  slices  of  fat 
bacon,  and  baste  well.  Froth  in  the  usual  manner,  and 
Kcrve  with  penison-saucey  and  a  good  gravy  in  the  dish. 
A  Kid  is  roasted  as  a  hare.  —  Ohs.  These  are  all,  at  least 
hare  and  kid,  dry  meats,  and  are  better  dressed,  the  for- 
mer as  soup  or  collops,  the  latter  as  coUops  or  stew,  or 
both  in  the  French  fashion.  A  Rabbit,  when  large,  may 
l)e  stuiied  and  roasted  as  a  hare  ;  a  leveret  is  not  stuffed. 
A  hare's  ears  are  reckoned  a  dainty  by  some  affected 
epicures  ;  —  they  must  be  singed  and  cleaned.  We  hold 
Ihem  in  equal  respect  with  duck's  feet,  but  are  very  toler- 
ant of  those  who  admire  them.  Baste  and  dredge  as  in 
roasting  poultry,  and  make  a  sauce  of  the  chopped  liver 
and  chopped  parsley,  stirred  into  melted  butter. 

37*    ON  BAKING  MEAT. 

The  baker's,  or  the  family  overiy  may  often  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  spit,  >vith  greater  economy  and  convenience  ; 
and  for  some  particular  joints  and  kinds  of  viands  it  is 
even  more  suitable.  A  baking  dish  ought  to  be  in  form 
of  a  trough,  and  at  least  six  inches  deep,  that  the  meat, 
covered  if  possible,  may  in  fact  stew  in  its  own  juices,  as  it 
gets  little  or  no  basting.  But  a  pip  must  be  baked  in  a 
shallow  tin  dish  for  sake  of  the  cracklingi  The  dnpping- 
pan  of  a  Betchelor's  or  Dutch  oven  will  answer  very  well. 
Prepare  things  to  be  baked  as  for  roasting,  but  season 
more  highly.  A  j/illet  or  breast  of  veal^  if  not  very  high 
fed,  will  bake  as  w^ell  as  it  will  roast.  The  oven  is  equally 
suitable  to  a  leg  of  pork,  but  a  loin  requires  to  be  stoeated 
in  roasting — it  is  too  greasy  when  baked.  A  pig^  if  not 
very  old,  and  if  the  baker  is  careful  to  anoint  the  crackling^ 
as  in  roasting,  bakes  very  well.  His  ears  and  tail  must 
be  put  in  buttered  papers,  if  you  would  hope  ever  to  see 
them  return  from  the  oven.  Geese  and  ducks  may  be 
baked,  if  not  old  and  rank;  in  which  case,  they  must 
either  be  iirst  parboiled  or  sweated  in  roasting  before  the 


128  CHAP.  III. — OVEN   COOKER  r. 

lire,  to  overcome  the  flavour.  A  leg  of  mutton,  with 
potatoes  peeled,  and  an  onion  shred,  makes,  when  haked, 
an  excellent  plain  family  dish,  the  mucilage  of  the  potatoes 
combines  so  kindly  with  the  fat  of  the  meat.*  The  noble 
Sirhin  disdains  to  be  cribbed  in  the  oven  ;  but  a  rump  of 
beef  salted  for  a  few  days,  washed,  highly  seasoned,  and 
baked  with  plenty  of  butter  in  a  deep  covered  vessel,  eats 
short,  and  is  esteemed  a  delicacy.  A  hare  or  rabbit  may 
be  baked,  allowing  plenty  of  butter  in  the  dish,  and  put- 
ting a  large  piece,  or  a  rich  stuffing  into  the  inside  of  the 
animal.  Herrings^  sprats,  salmon,  haddocks,  and  eels,  may 
all  be  highly  seasoned  and  baked  with  advantage.  Bakers' 
ovens  have  one  great  drawback;  —  they  are  accused  of 
being  sad  suckers  in,  indeed  real  sponges  for  gravy ;  so 
that  they  largely  indemnify  the  bakers*  apprentices  for 
the  trouble  saved  to  the  cook.  Besides,  meat  is  seldom 
got  home  in  season  from  those  wholesale  receptacles  for 
all  manner  of  joints ;  and  about  the  dinner  hour,  what 
dismay  is  often  created  by  the  face  of  the  maid, — 

**  Who  comes  with  most  terrible  news  from  the  baker,  . 

That  insolent  sloven  ! 

Who  shut  out  the  pasty  when  shutting  his  oven." 

Hams  are  often  soaked  and  baked,  where  they  are  used 
in  great  quantity,  and  where  the  object  is  to  cut  thin.+ 
Fish,  if  baked,  must  have  plenty  of  butter.  Since  our 
Seventh  edition  was  published,  it  has  been  ascertained  by 
experiment  that  meat  loses  less  weight  in  baking  than  by 
any  other  mode  of  cookery.     But,  alas !  it  loses  flavour. 

*  We  have  doubly  admired  this  homely  dish,  the  happy  artisan*t 
social  Sunday  dinner,  since  reading  the  life  of  the  poet  Crabbe. 

f  A  few  years  since  the  proprietor  of  Yauxhall  Gardens  lost  his 
celebrated  carver  of  hams,  when  he  advertised  for  a  new  operator  in 
that  department  of  harmless  anatomy.  One  of  notoriety  applied,  when 
the  worthy  proprietor  asked  him  how  many  acres  he  could  cover  with 
one  fine  ham  ;  upon  which  he  replied,  "  He  did  not  stand  upon  an  acre 
or  two  more  or  less,  but  could  cover  the  whole  of  his  gardens  with  one 
ham."  On  this  he  was  instantly  hired,  and  told  he  was  the  very 
fellow  for  this  establishment,  and  to  cut  away  for  the  benefit  of  the  con- 
cern and  of  mankind  at  large. 

To  grow  a  shoulder  or  leg  of  mutton, — This  art  is  said  to  be  well 
understood  by  London  and  other  bakers.  Have  a  very  small  leg  or 
shoulder  ;  change  it  upon  a  customer  for  one  a  little  larger,  and 
that  upon  another  for  one  larger  still,  and  by  the  dinner-hour,  you 
will  liave  a  heavy  excellent  joint  grown  out  of  your  original  very  small 
one. — P.  T, 


129 


CHAPTER  IV. 


BRPILING. 


I  have  no  dainties  for  ye,  gentlemen, 

Nor  loads  of  meat  to  make  the  room  smell  of  ^em^ 

Only  a  disk  to  every  man  I  dedicate. 

Beaumont  and  Flbtchbr. 

Broiling  is  the  most  delicate  manual  office  which  the 
common  cook  has  to  perform,  and  one  which  requires  the 
greatest  practical  facility  and  the  most  unremitting 
vigilance.  She  may  turn  her  hack  on  the  stew-pan  or 
the  spity  but  the  gridiron  can  never  be  left  with  impunity. 

A  valuable  and  large  portion  of  society  is  interested  in 
this  culinary  process.  It  is  the  simple  mode  of  cookery, 
l>est  suited,  and  generally  the  most  acceptable,  to  the 
sickly,  fickle  appetite  of  the  invalid  and  valetudinarian. 
It  is  also  recommended  by  comfort  and  economy  to  solitary 
diners  and  small  families,  as  by  this  means  the  smallest 
morsel  of  meat  can  be  dressed  ?iOi  as  delicately  as  the 
largest  quantity ;  and  few  grown  persons  relish  cold  pro- 
visions, if  they  could  help  themselves.  The  French  are 
admired  for  their  skill  in  blending  flavours,  heightening 
relishes,  imparting  sapid  qualities  to  what  is  dry  or  harsh, 
and  giving  piquancy  to  what  is  naturally  insipid.  But, 
a^  a  nation,  they  are  more  entitled  to  praise  for  that 
graduated  scale  of  cookery  which  descends  to  the  very 
lowest  class  of  society,  and  gives  comfort  and  relish  even 
to  the  meal  of  the  Pai-isian  tub-woman.  Every  French 
man  and  woman  is  something  of  a  cook.  Hence  the  pro- 
verb, **  As  many  Frenchmen  as  many  cooks."  This  they 
owe  in  some  measure  to  the  scale  of  their  utensils,  and  to 
thft  tiny  furnaces  and  chafing  dishes,  and  the  patience  and 
skill  which  enable  them  to  deal  in  all  manner  of  ways 
with  the  smallest  bit  of  meat,  while  their  contemporaries 
in  London  have  too  often  but  the  one  resource  —  the  Sun- 
day oven — for  the  large  expensive  joint,  which  loses  both 
its  flavour  and  succulence  in  baking,  and,  at  all  events, 
must  be  eaten  cold  by  the  family  till  it  is  finished.     Such 

I 


[1<k)  chap.  !▼. ^BROILING. 

famllie*  know  nothing  of  the  pot  au/eu;  they  seldom  s?3 
^v«^t>^  ivotSy  or  vegetailesy  save  perhaps  a  few  potatoes  on 
the  hoi  day.  The  cottage  cookery  of  both  rural  and 
urbane  Scotland  is  superior  to  that  of  its  neighbours, 
from  the  canny  skill  of  the  Scotch  in  the  potage,  and  in  the 
use  of  roots  and  vegetables ;  and  this  they  manage  with  no 
additional  expense  of  fuel. 

Broiling  is  not,  however,  the  cookery  of  the  cottage 
economist,  and  it  is  of  Broiling  we  now  treat.  The  state 
of  the  j&re  is  the  primary  consideration.  It  must  be 
clear  and  radiant,  consequently  free  of  smoke.  A  fire 
half  burnt  out  is  best.  The  gridiron  should  rather  be 
over  long  than  too  short,  and  ought  to  be  so  contrived 
that  it  can  be  placed  at  the  distance  of  three,  four,  fLWQ,  or 
six  inches  above  the  fire.  If  a  gridiron  is  well  polished 
at  first,  there  can  be  no  good  cause  for  the  bars  ever 
becoming  black.  Let  it  be  always  rubbed  when  put 
aside,  not  only  bright  on  the  top  of  the  bars,  but  clear  of 
Hoot  and  grease  between  them.  The  bars  should  be  nar- 
rowest at  top,  that  they  may  not  intercept  the  heat  of 
the  fire.  It  is  well  to  have  one  gridiron  for  fish,  and 
another  for  poultry  and  steaks.  The  gridiron  must  be 
hot  through  (which  will  take  five  minutes)  before  any 
thing  is  put  on  it.  It  must  then  be  nibbed  with  a  piece 
of  fresh  suet,  to  prevent  the  meat  from  being  branded  or 
sticking  to  the  hot  bars.  If  for  fish,  rub  toith  chalk. 
(jrreat  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  broiled  dishes  hot,  as 
tlie  smallness  of  the  articles  exposes  them  more  to  the 
action  of  cold  than  meat  cooked  in  large  pieces. 

Tliere  is  great  convenience  sometimes  in  the  f>«/ycw- 
dicular  gridirons  ;  and  there  is  a  trifling  kind  made  double 
of  strong  wire,  with  a  hinge,  and  small  dripping-pan  and 
hooks,  which  permits  the  steaks,  bacon,  or  fish  to  be 
turned  by  merely  turning  the  implement.  On  the  small 
scale  of  cookery,  these  are  very  convenient.  They  hang 
before  the  fire,  or  lie  over  it. 

P.S.  We  have  been  so  often  taken  in  with  wonderful 
newly-invented  frying-pans  and  infallible  gridirons,  that 
we  do  not  venture  to  recommend  any  form.     We  have 


BE£F- STEAKS.  181 

collected  half  a  garret-full  of  those  and  other  culinary 
inventions,  and  on  trial  found  nearly  the  whole  useless,  or 
no  improvement  on  the  old-fashioned  utensils. 

38.    TO  BTiOIL  BEEF-STEAKS.^P.  T.,  ESQ. 

In  England,  the  best  steaks  ai*e  cut. from  the  middle  of 
the   rump.      In  Ireland,   Scotland,  and  France,  steaks 
which  are  thought  more  delicate  are  oftener  cut,  like 
chops,  from  the  sirloin  or  spare-rib,  or  edge-bone,  trimming 
off  the  superfluous   fat,  and   chopping  away  the  bone. 
Beef  for  steaks  must  be  killed  for  from  three  to  five  days, 
or  more,  to  eat  tender;  but  it  does  not  require  to  be  kept 
so  long  as  a  large  piece  to  be  roasted.     Cut  the  steaks  of 
equal  thickness,  (about  three  quarters  of  an  inch,)  beat 
them  out  to  a  level  —  though  much  beating  is  not  recom- 
mended, as  it  expresses  the  juices  from  the  meat.     Let 
them  be  from  three  to  four  inches  in  bi*eadth,  and  from 
four  to  six  in  length.     Sirloin  steaks  shape  themselves. 
Trim  off  the  bone.     When  the  gridiron  is  hot,  rub  the 
bars  with  suet,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  the  fire,  and 
pepper  and  lay  on  the  steaks.      Turn  them  frequently 
with  steak  tongs,  to  do  them  equally  and  keep  in  the 
juices.      When  the  fat  blazes  and  smokes  very  much, 
remove  the  gridiron   for  a  second,  till  the  blaze  is  past. 
From  ten  to  twelve  minutes  will  do  a  steak.     Have  a  hot 
dish  (rubbed  with  eschalot  if  you  like)  placed  by  the  side  or 
over  the  fire,  near  the  edge  of  the  gridiron.    When  turning 
the  steaks  with  the  tongs,  if  there  be  on  the  top  any  gravy 
that  would  fall  in  turning,  drop  it  quickly  into  this  disli 
to  preserve  it.      Steaks   are  generally  preferred  rather 
underdone.     Sprinkle  them  with  a  little  salt  just  before 
they  are  dished  in  the  hot  dish,  in  which  a  little  eschalot, 
finely  shred,  may  be  put,  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  and  a 
spoonful    of  catsup   laid  to  heat  in    the    dish,  if  liked. 
Tu»i  the  steaks  over  with  the  tongs  once  or  twice  in  the 
dish,  squeezing  them  to  express  the  gravy.     In  Scotland, 
shred  raw  onion  is  still  sometimes  employed  instead  of 
eschalot.    Garnish  with  pickled  red  cabbage  or  cucumber, 
or  horseradish  scraped  as  for  roast  beef. — Opster-sauce^ 
Eschalot'Saucey  Brown  onion-saucey  Eschalot-mne,  Caracli- 
scmccy  General* S' sauce,  OT  Miser* s  sauce, — Those  who  relish 


132  CHAP,  tr.-^aaoiuxe. 

a  w«ll-4R9Bed  beef-steak*   duewd  all  fiance^  eare  the 
natiTe  jokes  of  the  meat,  with  the  addition  of  pepper,  salt. 


*  •*  Ask  a  dom  hcalthj  bbcb  ud^r  thiitrr  cud  TorcHWOOD, 
«  vbat  ma  the  my  best  diiuMr  thej  ever  made  in  their  lires,  aod  I 
bet  from  ei^t  to  ten  of  than  answer,  *a  beef  steak,* — and  thej  gire 
joa  the  histoiy  of  this  UHtqiie  re^e,  genersUj  found  on  a  joomej,  a 
pedestrian  toor,  or  fisbing  excnmon.  Yes,  gentlemen  !  England  may 
'well  pride  benelf  on  a  bourne  boadie  which  her  rival  exhausts  herself  in 
▼ain  MideaToan  to  imitate,  though  she  has  never  yet  succeeded  in  even 
spelling  its  Christian  name.  The  rum^-ftil-  and  &f-fiH  de  moutom,  are 
not  more  nnlike  in  oTthogmphy  than  in  quality,  to  the  juicy,  delicately- 
biowned,  hoi,  tender  rump-steak,  which  has  immortalized  Uie  name  of* 
the  **  Club  ^  and  of  Dolly.  But  I  am  sony  to  say  that  heet-stida, 
litenJIy  so,  are  too  often  met  with  even  in  our  own  island.  I  have 
calculated  that  in  the  cities  of  London,  LiTorpool,  Edinbuigh,  and 
Glasgow  alone,  upwards  of  a  hundred  thousand  young  n;cn  dine  on  beef- 
steaks every  day  of  the  week, — students,  apprentices,  clerks,  ^penile- 
men  if  the  press,"*  and  so  forth.  What  a  clattering  of  gridirons  here  ! 
Now,  if  our  receipt,  by  instructing  the  thousands  of  slip-shod  wenches 
who  dnM  those  messei,  tends  to  keen  said  youths  from  taverns 
and  ordinaries,  true  to  the  old  sober  haoits  of  their  countr}' — home- 
dinners,  I  shall  not  think  this  page  ill  bestowed,  Dr.  Rkdgill  ;  though 
you  hint  that  too  much  ipaee  is  occupied  by  iimnle  elementary  pro- 
cesses."— ^The  Doctor  assured  his  friend,  that  ne  held  no  such  opinion, 
and  suggested  that  the  girls  attending  the  National  Schools  ought  to  be 
early  initis^  into  these  mysteries,  as  in  the  admirable  French  insti- 
tution at  Ecouen,  near  Paris,  which  would  be  conferring  a  real  kindness 
on  those  they  were  destined  to  serve  in  future  life. — "  No  spot  on 
earth  once,"  said  Wintbrblossom,  **  like  the  Old  Flesh  Markbt 
Closb  of  Edinburgh,  for  a  spare-rib  steak ;  and  I  believe  it  has  not 
yet  quite  lost  its  ancient  celebrity.  I  never  ate  one  in  perfection  but 
there:" — and  the  old  beau  related,  with  much  vivacity,  the  adventurer 
of  a  niffht  on  which  he  had  accompanied  to  this  resort  the  eccentric 
Earl  ot  Kellie,  and  a  party  of  Caledonian  bon-vivants  of  the  last  age. — 
**But  the  receipt?"  inquired  Rxdoill,  with  grave  earnestness,  cor- 
responding to  the  magnitude  of  the  subject.  "  O  !  neither  more  nor 
less  than  wat  those  taverns  were,  and  are  kept  by  butchers*  wives,  so 
that  the  primest  of  the  meat  found,  and  finas  its  way  there.  In  the 
darksome  den  into  which  we  dived — Luckie  Middritt^s  of  savoury 
memory — ^hungry  customei^  consumed  beef-steaks  by  wholesale,  at  all 
hours  of  the  night  and  day,  or  rather  of  the  perpetual  night.  The 
coal  fire  was  always  in  prime  condition,  and  snort  way  between  the 
br<m€ler»nd  the  mouth,  Doctor,  —  served  hot  and  hot,  —  no  distance 
between  the  kitchen  and  the  hall:  before  the  collop-ton^s  had  collapsed 
in  the  hands  of  the  cook,  in  rushed  the  red-legged  waiting- wench  with 
the  smoking  woo<len  platter.  Every  man  held  his  weapon  ready,  and 
his  teeth  set;  trencher  after  trencher  followed. — Ay,  this  is  to  ei^  a 
steak  in  perfection.  It  can  be  known  but  once  !  "  —  The  listening 
Doctor  compressed  his  lips,  and  sighed  in  accordance  with  this  melan- 
choly view  of  life.  There  were  times — hours  of  crudities  and  incipient 
evil  digestion — ^when  the  hand  of  a  child  could  have  staggerea  the 


BEEF-STEAKS  AND  MUTTON  CHOPS.  193 

land  at  most  a  particle,  d,  soup^on,  of  minoed  eschalot  or 
onion. 

^9.    BEEF-STEAKS  WITH  POTATOES  OR  BEANS. 

An  Excellent  French  DisK 

Flatten  and  season  with  salt  and  mixed  spices  neatly- 
cut  rump-steaks.  Dip  them  in  melted  butter  to  keep  in 
their  native  gravy  whilst  broiling.  Have  ready,  in  a  dish 
by  the  fire,  a  very  little  parboiled  and  finely-shred  parsley, 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  in  the  hot  dish.  When  the 
'  steaks  are  broiled,  as  directed  in  the  last  receipt,  lay  them 
on  this,  and  turn  them  quickly  over  once  or  twice,  and 
arrange  very  hot  fried  potatoes  around  them,  or  potato 
fritters ;  or  serve  beans. 

40.   TO  BROIL  HlTfON  AND  LAMB  CHOPS,  &C. 

Mutton  and  Lamb  Chops,  Rabbit  cut  in  quarters. 
Sweetbreads  and  Kidneys,  may  be  broiled  as  above ;  but 
particular  care  must  be  taken  tliat  tlie  fat  which  drops 
from  mutton  does  not  smoke  the  chops,  —  to  prevent 
which,  turn  them  frequently,  and  remove  or  place  the 
gridiron  aslant  when  the  smoke  rises.  Kidneys  must  be 
stretched  on  a  skewer  to  prevent  their  curling  with  the 
heat.  Each  of  these  things  may  be  higher  dressed  by 
dipping  them  in  eg^y  and  then  in  a  mixture  of  bread- 
crumbs and  savoury  herbs,  which  may  farther  be  strewed 

stroneest  principles  of  his  culinary  belief.  The  vision  of  some  three 
ponnds  of  steaks,  consumed  at  a  country  inn  in  Somersetshire,  with  all 
the  vigour  and  relish  of  youthful  appetite,  sharpened  hj  exercise,  rose 
between  him  and  the  well-replenished  board  that  now  courted  hit 
advances;  and  the  Doctor  moralized  on  the  vanity  and  nothingness 
of  all  sublunary  pleasures,  while  he  handed  round  the  mock  tartle 
soup. 

**  No  beef-steak,  after  all,  equal  to  that  of  my  friends  the  Abyssinians,^^ 
said  Touchwood.  The  Doctor  anathematized  Uie  savage  and  hloody 
process :  — "  Nor  any  receipt  to  that  of  Macbeth,"  said  Wintbrblossoic 
< — ^**not  he  of  the  hotel,  but  of  Shakspere,  Doctor;^*  and  he  spouted, 

**  If  it  ioere  donCt  when  His  dotUt 

Then  twere  weU  that  it  toert  done  quicUp  /** 

'*  Stolen  from  the  New  MontJdi/j'"  said  Jekvll,  only  half-aside:  and 
the  Doctor,  more  than  ever  convinced  that  little  assistance  for  the 
Great  Work  could  be  obtained  either  from  the  finical  Guardsman  or 
the  flighty  Old  Beau,  gave  himself  in  seriousness  to  the  serious  business 
of  dining. 


104  CHAP.  ly. — ^BROILINO. 

over  them  as  they  broil.  —  Saiices  for  mutton-chops  the 
same  as  for  beef-steaks.  For  Lamhy  the  Catsup  is  better 
omitted,  and  Cucumber  or  Matire  d* Hotel  sauce,  substituted. 
Sweetbreads  and  Kidneys  are  better  fried  than  broiled. 

41.    TO  BROIL  PORK  CHOPS. 

Pork-chops  should  be  delicately  cut  from  the  neck  or 
loin,  and  trimmed  from  pai't  of  the  fat.  Dust  them  with 
white  pepper,  with  which  is  mixed  a  spice  of  cayenne. 
Broil  them  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  over  a  clear 
sharp  fire,  strewing  over  them  a  little  salt  when  they  are 
nearly  cooked.  They  must  be  sewed  broiling  hot  and 
with  a  hot  gravy,  wuth  which  "a  tea-spoonful  of  made- 
mustard,  and  a  little  dry  sage  pulverized,  may  be  mixed. 
Redgill-sauce  or  Sauce  Robert  possesses  still  more  gtisto  for 
thorough-bred  pork-eaters.*  Stewed  cabbage  is  served 
with  them.  Bacon,  in  thin  slices,  may  be  nicely  broiled 
over  a  slow  fire,  in  a  sheet  of  paper,  tucked  up  in  form  of 
a  small  dripping-pan  ;  or  on  a  toaster  before  the  fire. 

N.B.  We  would,  unless  the  fire  is  temptingly  radiant 
and  the  cook  dexterous,  recommend  that  pork-chops  be 
dressed  in  the  American  oven  before  a  brisk  fire,  which 
will  prevent  their  becoming  black,  and  having  the  smeary 
appearance  which  those  dressed  on  the  gridiron  too  often 
exhibit ;  or  they  may  be  half-fried,  crumbed,  and  then 
broiled  bro\^Ti. 

42.    TO  BROIL  YOUNG   CHICKENS  AND  PIGEONS. 

A  Broiled  chicken  or  pigeon  is  thought  lighter  than  one 
toasted,  and  is  at  least  more  expeditiously  cooked.  It  is 
therefore  preferred  for  the  sick,  or  the  hungry  and  hasty. 

*  PoRK-CHOPS. — It  is  related  that  FusELi,  when  he  wished  to 
summon  Nightmare,  and  hid  her  sit  for  her  picture,  or  any  other 
grotesque  or  norrible  personation,  wont  to  prime  himself  for  the  feat  by 
supping  on  about  three  pounds  of  lialf-^ressed  pork-chops. 

Though  that  accommodating  Prince,  Richard  C(EUR  db  Lion, 
could,  as  has  been  seen,  eat  any  thing,  sill  being  fish  that  came  in  the 
net  when  he  was  sharp-set,  he  had,  like  other  epicures,  his  favourite 
dish,  which  was  PorJdfied  Saracen,  curried.  On  recovering  in  Syria 
from  an  ague,  his  first  violent  longing  was  for  pork,  which  is  saia  to 
approach  neater  to  human  Hesh  than  any  other  sort  of  meat.  Pork  is 
indeed  "  a  passionate  '^  food.  It  tolerates  no  medium.  It  must  be 
idolized  or  detested,  whether  as  Hitch  or  gammon,  souse  or  sausage, 
brawn  or  griskin. 


CHICKEXS^  PIGBOUSy  AXB  FARTRIDGSS.  ir>5 

Singe  as  directed,  Sbf^  page  lOS.  Pick  and  truss,  wash  and 
dry  it,  and  cut  down  the  hack ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  place  the  in^de  on  a  gridiron  pieviously 
heated,  and  pnt  at  a  greater  distance  from  the  fii^ 
than  for  a  steak.  This  dish  will  take  a  full  half-hour  to 
cook  perfectly.  The  gridiron  should  occasionally  be  taken 
off  the  fire,  and  the  birds  rubbed  with  butter  tieil  in  a 
muslin  rag.  Probe  with  a  knife  to  see  if  they  are  done. 
Place  your  chickens  or  pigeons  in  a  hot  disli.  For 
chickens,  serve  parsley  and  butter,  or  gravy  with  musli- 
rooms,  or  sauce  a  la  Tariare.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon,  and  the  liver  and  gizzard  (the  latter  scored)  highly 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  also  broiled.  For 
pigeons — the  same  is  melted  butter,  flavoured  with  musli- 
room-catsup,  or  parsley  and  butter  in  tlie  dish. 

Pigeons  may  be  broiled  without  splitting.  Truss  as  for 
boiling,  and  flatten  the  breast-bone.  Stuff  each  pigeon 
with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  chopped  parsley,  and  season 
pretty  high  with  pepper  and  salt.  Tie  them  close  at  both 
ends,  and  turn  them  frequently  over  a  clear  fire  that  they 
may  be  nicely  browned  and  equally  done ;  or  they  may 
be  rubbed  with  ^^gy  and  afterwards  rolled  in  bread-crumbs 
and  chopped  parsley,  and  dredged  with  this  mixture  while 
broiling. — Ohs,  Pigeons  are  not  so  light,  but  moro  savoury, 
when  broiled  whole.  When  a  chicken  is  broiled  for  an 
invalid  or  convalescent,  it  may  be  proper  to  skin  it,  as  Uie 
skin  is  the  most  indigestible  part  of  any  bird,  and  to  use 
as  little  butter  as  possible.  A  chicken  for  an  invalid 
may  be  par-roastedy  cut  up,  and  then  broiled.  — -  It  will 
sometimes  be  more  convenient  to  dress  chickens  as  directed 
for  partridges,  in  the  next  i-eceipt^ 

43.   TO  BROIL  PARTRIDGES  OR  MOOR-QAHE. 

Having  prepared,  make  them  firm  in  the  frying-pan, 
turning  them  once.  Finish  on  the  gridiron;  and  serve 
them  in  a  hot  dish,  with  Poor  Man*s  sauce, — Another  good 
way*  French  cooks,  after  trussing  the  fowl  or  chicken, 
often  cut  down  the  back,  flatten  the  breast,  break  the 
leg-bones,  simmer  in  butter  with  white  pepper  and  salt^  and 
finish  on  the  gridiron. 


186 


CHAPTER  V. 

FRYING. 

Passion,  0  ire  !  how  I  run  on, 
Here  ^s  that  vrhich  should  be  thought  upcn 
The  business  of  the  kitchen^s  great 
And  it  is  fit  that  men  should  eat, 

Nor  was  it  e'er  denied.  Suckling. 

Frying,  if  not  the  lightest,  is  a  very  convenient  mode  of 
cookery  to  those  who  wish  to  unite  comfort  with  economy ; 
and,  certain  things  premised,  it  is  not  difficult  of  manage- 
ment. The  frying  fat,  be  it  lard,  oil,  butter,  drippinpy 
or  top-pot,  must  hot  be  stale,  much  less  rancid ;  the  fire 
must  not  be  smoky,  and  the  frying-pan,  but  not  the 
sauU'pan^  (which  our  cooks  con-upt  into  the  sooty-pan^ 
ought  to  be  thicker  in  the  bottom  than  frying-pans  are 
usually  made.  Fresh  butter,  clarified  from  all  foreign 
substances,  pure  "  British  oil,"  is  the  most  delicate  sub- 
stance in  which  meat  can  be  fried,  as  it  communicates  no 
predominating  flavour.  Oil,  lard,  or  what  answers 
equally  well,  clarified  fresh  suet,  or  dripping  (the  "kitchen- 
fee  "  of  the  Cleikum,)  are  better  adapted  than  butter  for 
fish,  eggs,  or  any  thing  watery.  When  butter  for  frying 
is  clarified,  it  is  not  nearly  so  apt  to  hum,  which  effect 
is  produced  by  the  water  or  milk  it  contains.  Fritters 
and  sweet  things  must  have  either  good  butter,  or  good 
lard,  or,  where  it  can  be  afforded,  good  oil.  The  fire 
must  not  be  too  fierce,  nor  yet  too  slack,  as  fat  is  suscep- 
tible of  that  intense  degree  of  heat  which  will  scorch 
whatever  is  placed  in  it  before  the  substance  to  be  fried 
could  be  heated  through ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  if  not 
hot  enough,  the^/y  will  be  merely  sodden  in  fat,  stewed 
and  not  fried.  If  fish,  they  would  be  limber,  apt  to 
break,  of  a  bad  colour,  and  have  no  crispness.  Fish  are 
more  difficult  to  fry  than  meat,  from  the  softness  of  the 
fibre.  They  consequently  require  a  greater  degree  of 
attention.    Have  an  oval-shaped  frying-pan  for  fish,  as 


FRYING  FATS — STEAKS.  1,37 

tilis  form  requires  much  less  of  the  frying  material  than 
one  of  a  round  shape.  A  wire-frame  fitted  to  the  size  of 
tlie  pan,  and  raised  about  a  quarter  inch  from  its  bottom  is 
coming  into  general  use  for  fish :  lay  the  fish  on  it ; 
covered  with  the  frying  material.  Ascertain  the  heat  of 
the  fat,  which  must  completely  cover  the  fish,  by  throwing 
a  bit  of  bread  into  it,  as  you  try  the  heat  of  an  oven 
by  a  bit  of  wet  paste  placed  in  it.  Fat  that  has  fried 
veal-cutlets,  lamb-steaks,  &c.,  may  be  used  afterwards  fur 
fish,  if  allowed  to  settle  and  poured  clean  from  the 
sediment ;  but  what  is  used  for  fish  would  spoil  any 
sort  of  meat,  though  it  will  auswer  repeatedly  for  fisli, 
especially  of  the  same  sort,  if  strained  when  used.  Frying 
fat  becomes  richer  from  having  meat  fried  in  it ;  and  if 
carefully  taken  up,  may  be  used  repeatedly. — See  FriUers, 
OmeletSy  &c. 

44.    TO  CLARIFY  BUTTER  FOR  POTTING  OR  FRYING,  AND  SUET, 

AND  DRIPPING  FOR  FRYING. 

Cut  the  butter  in  slices ;  put  it  into  a  jar,  which  set  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  till  it  melt.  Skim  it,  take  it  out, 
and  when  it  has  cooled  a  little,  pour  it  gently  ofF,  holding 
back  the  curdy  sediment.  Mutton  and  beef  suet  and  lard 
may  be  roughly  chopped,  have  all  the  skin  and  fibrous 
jjarts  taken  out,  and  either  be  gradually  melted  over  a 
slow  fire,  or  before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven,  taking  away 
the  fat  as  it  drops.  In  this  last  process  there  is  less 
danger  of  the  fat  acquiring  a  burnt  taste  than  when 
rapidly  melted  into  taUow  over  the  fire.  Another  gwd 
ioojf. — ^Boil  down  the  suet  in  water,  and  when  cold  take 
off  the  cake  of  fat.  In  each  case  strain  the  fat  anil 
keep  back  the  sediment.  Dripping  and  melted  suet* 
are  used  for  pie-crust,  and  for  basting  and  soups,  as  well 
as  for  frying.  Their  suitableness  for  all  these  purposes 
depends,  in  a  great  measure,  on  the  way  in  which  they 
have  been  melted  and  preserved.  When  dripping  is  to  be 
kept  for  soup  it  may  be  seasoned,  not  otherwise.  It  may 
be  very  highly  purified  by  twice  clarifying.     A  bit  of 

*  For  an  excellent  way  of  aging  beef  snet,  see  Paste  ofDeeftuet  for 
J'ies,  &c.  No,  774. 


138  CHAP.  T. — FRYING. 

charcoal  or  a  charred  toast  thrown  into  U  will  help  to 
remove  a  rancid  taint. 

45.   TO  MELT  LARD  FOR  FRYING,  &C.,  AND  TO  BIAKE  LARD. 

Either  melt  it  as  in  last  receipt,  or  skin,  heat,  and 
hoil  the  hog's  caul  slowly,  and  lay  it  in  a  little  water, 
working  it  with  the  hand.  When  it  will  easily  hreak 
with  the  fingers,  let  it  cool,  and  i-uh  it  through  a  sieve. 
Hang  the  lard  in  hladders  or  nets  in  a  cool  place.  Another 
tpc^,  —  Melt  the  lard  in  a  stone  jar  set  in  hoiling  water  ; 
pour  it  carefully  from  the  sediment,  and  keep  it  in 
hladders  or  small  jars.  Lard  for  larding, — Rub  the  lard 
when  taken  from  the  pig  with  pounded  salt.  Lay  two 
pieces  together,  put  a  heavy  weight  over  them.  Let  it  lie 
from  four  to  six  weeks,  then  skewer  and  hang  it  to  dry, 
in  a  dry,  cool,  airy  place.  It  cannot  be  used  for  larding 
till  it  get  firm.     See  Nos.  67,  68. 

46.    TO  fry  beef  steaks. — DR.  R. 

Fry  in  butter,  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes,  pieces  cut 
from  the  best  part  of  the  rump  or  any  good  joint,  of  the  same 
size  as  for  broiling.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  brown.  The 
pan  may  be  covered  after  the  steaks  are  browned,  which 
will  render  them  more  juicy.  When  done  place  them  in 
a  hot  dish  by  the  fire  ;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  a  small 
glass  of  red  wine^  and,  if  you  like  it,  a  small  anchovy 
boned,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  minced  eschalot.  Give  it  a  boil 
up,  and  pour  it  over  the  steaks,  which,  like  every  fry  and 
broil,  must  be  served  hot.  Or  fried  steaks  may  be  eaten 
with  brown  gravy,  or  onion-sauce,  or  fried  onions,  served 
very  hot  along  with  them.  Garnish  with  pickles  or 
scraped  horseradish.  The  wine  may  be  omitted.  Potato- 
fritters  or  plain  dumplings  are  a  good  accompaniment. 

47.    SCOTCH    BEEF  COLLOPS   WITH   ONIONS,   OR  COLLOP   IN 

THE     PAN. — M.  D. 

Cut  the  meat  rather  thinner  than  for  broiling  *,  make 
the  butter  hot,  and  place  the  collops  in  the  frying-pan, 
with  about  the  proportion  of  a  couple  of  middle-sized 
onions  sliced  to  each  half-pound.  If  the  butter  be  salt, 
pepper  is  used,  but  no  additional  salt.  Brown,  and  then 
cover  the  pan  with  a  close  lid.  When  done,  the  collops 
may  be  drawn  aside,  and  a  little  oyster-pickle  or  walnut- 


TBAL  CUTLETS*  loO 

catsup  and  boiling  water  added  to  the  onion-graTy  sauce 
in  the  pan.  Disk,  and  serve  hot.*  Ten  minutes  will 
dress  them. 

48.  TO  FRT  VEAL  CCTLETS,  EN6USH  AND  FRENCH  WAT. 

Cut  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick  from  the  fillet, 
back-ribs,  or  loin.  If  not  equally  cut,  level  them  with 
a  cutlet-bat,  and  shape  round,  about  the  size  of  the  mouth 
of  a  large  tea-cup.  Have  plenty  of  lard  or  fresh  butter  to 
fry  them  in,  not  dripping,  which  is  unsuitable  to  white 
meats.  Keep  the  pan  at  a  good  distance  from  tlie  fire,  if 
the  cutlets  be  thick  ;  when  browned  on  both  sides  of  a 
light  golden-tinged  brown,  the  pan  may  be  held  higher 
above  the  fire  and  covered.  Have  ready  some  gravy  made 
thus :  A  quarter-pound  of  the  skins,  bones,  or  trim- 
mings of  the  cutlets,  a  blade  of  mace,  the  head  of  a  young 
onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  good  bit  of  lemon-peel,  six 
white  peppercorns,  a  bay  leaf,  if  the  flavour  is  liked,  and 
a  pint  of  water,  which  may  boil  down  one-half ;  add  fresh 
butter,  the  size  of  a  large  walnut,  rolled  in  flour,  or  white 
roiae.  When  this  gravy  is  thickened,  strain,  boil  again, 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  cutlets,  which  must  be  served 
very  hot.  This  sauce  may  be  made  hrovony  by  the  addition 
of  a  little  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup.  Another  way, — 
Veal  cutlets  may  be  more  highly  dressed  by  brushing  the 
slices  witli  beat  e^g^  and  strewing  over  them  a  mixture  of 
bread-crumbs,  parsley,  and  lemon-peel  chopped  very  fine, 
and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg.  They  must  be  fried  in  plenty 
of  butter.  When  the  cutlets  are  done,  place  them  before 
the  fire  in  a  hot  dish,  covered,  and  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan 
add  veal  broth  or  griivy,  and  white  nmXy  or  a  few  little  bits 
of  butter  separately  rolled  in  flour;  let  it  boil  and  thicken; 
add  a  little  lemon-juice  and  white  pepper,  skim  the  sauce, 
and  pour  it  over  the  cutlets.  Where  the  flavour  of  lemon- 
thyme  is  liked,  a  sprig  of  it  makes  a  grateful  addition  to 
sauce  for  veal  cutlets.    French  way^  which  the  French  call 

*  This  national  dish  possessed  rather  too  much  gusAo  for  Jbkyll  ; 
but  the  Doctor  admired  it  exceedingly,  and  even  suggested  that,  inde- 
pendently of  the  collops,  this  vras  an  excellent  method  of  preparing 
onion  gravy,  which  only  required  the  addition  of  a  little  red  wine  and 
lemon  juice,  to  those  who  like  an  acid  relish,  to  he  a  complete  sauce* 


1 40  CH  AP .  V. — FRYIXO. 

the  English : — Cut  nice  small  cutlets  from  the  neck,  skin-^ 
ning  and  trimming  them  from  fat.  Egg,  crumb,  and  fry 
them.  In  another  pan  fry  as  many  delicate  slices  of  bacon 
as  you  have  cutlets.  Dress  round  on  a  very  hot  dish,  a 
cutlet  and  a  slice  of  bacon  laid  edgeways  on  each  other, 
and  pour  hot  mushroom  gravy  in  the  centre.  See  Nos.  640, 
041,  642,  and  Scotch  collops,  in  Chap.  NtUionaU  Dishes. 

49.    LAMB  OR  PORK  CHOPS 

Are  fried  in  same  manner  as  veal,  and  either  plain  or 
egged,  ^  rolled  in  bread  crumbs,  and,  when  dished^  ffamished 
with  slices  of  lemotiy  or  crisped  parsl^.  Pork-chops  may 
be  fried  as  above,  dipping  them  after  they  are  egged  in  a 
mixture  of  chopped  onion,  sage,  and  bi-ead-crumbs. — Ohs, 
Care  should  be  taken  to  have  all  chops,  steaks,  and  ciUlets  of  a 
good  shape,  neatly  trimmed,  and  beat  out  to  equal  thick- 
ness, when  not  at  first  cut  smoothly  and  equally. 

50.    TO  FRY  FRESH  SAUSAGES. — ^DR.  R. 

Whether  pork,  veal,  or  beef  sausages,  they  are  best 
fried  in  the  same  way,  viz.  slowly,  that  they  may  heat  to  the 
heart  without  bursting.  Sausages  ought  to  be  dressed 
fresh,  more  especially  those  that  are  bought  at  cooks'  shops, 
where  it  is  the  practice  to  put  the  crumb  of  fresh  roll 
soaked  in  a  certain  proportion  of  water  into  them,  which 
immediately  ferments  and  turns  the  sausage-meat  sour. 
Very  little  butter  or  lard  is  required  to  fry  pork  or  beef 
sausages ;  veal  must  have  more.  If  in  danger  of  bursting 
they  may  be  pricked  with  a  darning-needle ;  but  if  gra- 
dually heated,  unless  they  are  fermenting,  this  precaution 
will  not  be  necessary.  They  must  be  lightly  dredged  with 
flour  to  froth  them,  and  drained  from  the  fat,  by  lying  on  a 
dish  before  the  fire.  They  are  sometimes  boiled,  and 
frothed  before  the  fire.  —  Ohs,  Sausages  were  wont  to  be 
fried  with  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  quartered ;  and  gar- 
nished and  served  with  the  same :  the  practice  is  nearly 
obsolete.  Poached  eggs  and  fried  bi'ead,  mashed,  roasted, 
or  scalloped  potatoes,  or  stewed  red  cabbage,  are  more 

*  "  To  egg,*' — to  smear  vith  beat  egg^  or  dip  in  egg^ — ^is  an  approved 
kitchen  verb,  from  vrhicb  Touchwood  derived  tbe  Scotch  phrase,  to 
**  ^%%  up,"  or  "  egg  on,"  incite^  urge^  or  stimulate — ^the  appetite.  Dr. 
UsDoiLL  had  grave  doubts  as  to  this  etymology.  "  To  onion  "  is  ano- 
ther  battery  verb,  which  deserves  to  be  more  generally  known. 


8AUSA0ES — ^SWEETBREADS.  141 

suitable  to  this  rich  and  savoury  dish.  With  Turkt$^^fowly 
or  vealy  sausage  is  often  more  acceptable  than  even  tongue 
or  ham.    To  make  sausagesy  see  the  Index. 

51.    TO  FRT  EGGS  WITH  BACON-HAM  OB  SAUSAGE. — P.  T. 

But  for  this  homely  dish  many  an  honest  traveller 
would  go  without  his  dinner.  The  general  fault  is,  that 
the  bacon  is  often  too  hard,  and  cannot  be  cut  into  proper 
slices  ;  to  steep  the  slices  even  for  a  few  minutes  in  luke- 
warm water  would  tend  to  remedy  one  defect ;  they  must 
then  be  dried  in  the  folds  of  a  cloth.  The  colour  of  eggs 
is  very  easily  hurt ;  so  be  sure  tliat  the  frying-pan  is  de- 
licately clean.  This,  in  all  cases,  is  best  known  by  melt- 
ing a  little  fat  in  it,  pouring  it  out,  and  wiping  hard  while 
the  pan  is  still  hot.  Let  the  bacon  be  nearly  fried,  draw 
it  aside,  and  if  the  lat  look  in  the  least  dark  or  burnt,  pour 
it  off,  and,  if  nice  cookery  is  wanted,  let  fresh  material  get 
hot  before  the  eggs  are  broken  and  gently  slipt  in.  Ladle 
the  frying  fat  over  them  with  an  iron  tinned  spoon.  When 
the  eggs  are  done  on  the  under  side,  dish  the  bacon  in  a 
hot  dish,  and  either  turn  them  or  hold  the  pan  before  the 
fire  a  minute,  or  use  a  salamander,  to  take  the  raw  off  the 
upper  side.  Trim  them  as  they  lie  in  the  pan ;  then  take 
dietn  up  with  a  slice,  and  drain  the  grease  off,  before  dish- 
ing them  with  the  bacon.  They  are  dished  either  on  tlie 
slices  of  bacon,  or  laid  in  the  dish,  with  the  bacon  placed 
neatly  round  them.  In  very  nice  cookery  a  separate  pan 
should  be  used  for  frying  the  eggs,  and  some  good  cooks 
broil  the  ham,  and  fry  the  eggs  only. 

52.    TO  FRT  SWEETBREADS. 

Let  sweetbreads  always  be  slightly  parboiled  when 
they  come  from  the  butcher.  When  to  be  dressed,  cut 
them  into  oblong  slices,  and  either  flour  and  fry  them  in 
butter,  or  t^^  them,  then  roll  in  bread-crumbs ;  add  a 
seasoning  of  lemon-peel,  pepper,  and  a  sprig  of  basil  chopped. 
Garnish  with  crisped  parsley :  anchi/eysaucey  or  melted 
butter,  with  a  smidl  tea-spoonful  of  walnut  or  mushroom 
catsup  stirred  into  it.  Serve  with  them  small  slices  of 
crisped  bacon,  or  slices  of  sausage  done  in  a  cheese-toaster 
or  Dutch  oven.    For  Sweethreads,  see  French  Cookety, 


1 42  CHAP.  V. — PRYING. 

53.    TO  FRY  LAMB^S  LIVER  AND  PIG's  HARSLEt. 

Cut  a  sound  fat  liver  into  long  thin  slices.  Soak  in  water, 
flry  in  a  cloth,  and  flour  these.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  rich 
brown,  in  plenty  of  fresh  butter  or  lard.  Eschalot,  or 
young  onions,  and  pepper,  may  be  added  to  the  fry.  Serve 
with  hot  gravy  and  stewed  cucumbers,  or  cucumber-sauce. 
Garnish  with  fried  parsley.  —  Obs.  When  liver  is  found 
either  livid,  black,  or  lumpy,  it  is  surely  unnecessary  to 
notice,  that,  whether  for  sauce,  stuffing,  or  frying,  it  is 
alike  to  be  rejected.  Liver  may  be  parboiled,  and  finished 
by  frying.  Pig's  Harslet, — Clean  and  parboil  the  lights, 
liver,  sweetbread,  and  heart;  slice,  dredge  with  flour, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  with  chopped  onion 
and  sage,  in  butter  or  lard,  with  a  bit  of  bacon.  The 
French  make  this  dish  fine  by  serving  tt  with  a  sauce  of 
claret  and  mustard.  Harslet  may  be  stewed,  a  good  way, 
or  roasted,  skewered  up  in  a  caul. 

54.    TO  FRY  calf's  LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Calf's  liver  is  fried  as  above.  When  nearly  done,  or 
else  in  a  separate  pan,  fry  the  bacon.  Dish  with  a  slice 
of  bacon  laid  on  each  slice  of  liver ;  or  they  may  be  dished 
separately.  Serve  a  little  thickened  gravy  with  a  squeeze 
of  lemon.  Garnish  with  crisp  parsley. — Obs,  Sound  ox- 
.  liver  and  bacon,  done  as  above,  make  a  good,  cheap,  but 
coarse  dish.    So  do  chopped  potatoes,  with  fat  bacon  fried, 

55.    TO  FRY  VENISON  COLLOPS,  SCOTTISH. 

Cut  nice  steaks  from  the  haunch,  or  slices  neatly 
trimmed  from  the  neck  or  loin.  Have  a  gravy  drawn  from 
the  bones  and  trimmings,  ready  thickened  with  butter  rolled 
in  lightly -browned  flour.  Strain  it  into  a  small  stew-pan, 
boil,  and  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon  or  orange,  and  a  small 
glass  of  claret  :*  pepper  to  taste,  a  salt- spoonful  of  salt,  the 
«ize  of  a  pin's  head  of  cayenne,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg. 
Fry  and  dish  the  collops  hot,  and  pour  this  sauce  over 
them.  A  still  higher  gout  may  be  imparted  to  this  sauce 
by  eschalot  toine,  basil  mne,  or  tarragon  vinegar,  chosen  as 

*  Claret,  of  all  the  red  wines,  is  that,  in  general,  best  adapted  to  tlie 
wee  of  the  cook:  for  higher  flavour,  Burgundy  is  preferred,  yet  white 
wines  are  those  generally  used  ;  Champagne,  Madeira,  and  Sherrj 
especially,  which  are  best  suited  to  white  meats  and  fish. 


may  suit  the  taste  of  the  eater.  If  those  flavours  are  not 
liked,  some  old  venison-eaters  may  relish  a  very  little 
pounded  line  sugar  and  vinegar  in  the  gravy,  and  currant- 
jelly  may  be  served  in  a  sauce  tureen.  Garnish  with 
fried  crumbs.  This  is  a  very  excellent  viray  of  dressing 
venison,  particularly  when  it  is  not  fat  enough  to  roast 
well. — For  Venison  Minced  Collops,  see  National  Dishes, 

66,    TO  FRY  TRIPE  AND  COW-HEELS. 

Tripe  must  be  boiled  as  in  No.  16,  cut  in  pieces  not  too 
large,  and  dipped  in  a  batter  made  of  flour  and  eggs,  with 
a  little  salt  and  minced  onion,  if  you  like,  and  fried  for 
seven  minutes  of  a  rich  light- brown. —  White  Onion-sauce. 
— Obs»  Cow  Heel  is  cut  into  neat  pieces,  egged,  rolled  in 
crumbs,  fried,  and  served  in  the  same  manner.  The  Club 
were  not  partial  to  these  fries.  They  to  a  man  preferred 
plain  boiled  tripe,  or  tripe  fricasseed  with  a  white  sauce. — 
See  Potted  Heel^  Irish,  French,  Birmingham  and  Glasgow 
Tripe, 

57.    TO   PREPARE    CRUMBS    FOR    CRUMBING    AND    PRYING,    AND 
TO    FRY  CRUMBS  AND    PARSLEY. 

ToAST  carefully  in  an  American  oven,  thin  slices  of 
bread  with  the  crust  off ;  or,  better,  place  it  for  a  night  in 
a  cool  oven  to  be  his-cuity  i.  e,  twice  baked ;  when  very  crisp, 
crumble  and  roll  or  rub  down  into  fine  crumbs  for  things 
fried,  or  to  dredge  hams,  bacon,  or  fish  with.  To  fry 
parsley,  have  the  frying-pan  well  filled  with  very  hot  drip- 
ping or  lard.  Have  young  parsley  nicely  picked,  washed, 
drained,  and  then  ru})bed  lightly  between  the  folds  of  a 
cloth  to  dry.  It  must  be  fried  quickly  to  get  crisp.  The 
moment  it  is  done  lift  it  with  a  slice,  and  place  it  before 
the  fire  on  a  sieve  reversed,  to  drain  and  become  more 
crisp ;  or  it  may  be  crisped  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the 
fire.  Tliei*e  is  now  a  useful  wire  basket,  for  holding 
parsley  while  frying.  Parsley  fried  is  used  for  garnishing 
lamb-chops,  liver,  or  any  meat  dish  to  which  the  flavour  of 
parsley  is  suitable.  Many  things  are  served  on  fried 
parsley.  (See  Dried  Herbs,)  —  Bread-Crumbs  are  fried 
and  drained  in  the  same  manner,  taking  care  that  the  fat 
is  perfectly  clear  and  transparent^  and  that  the  bread  is 


144  riur.  vi. — broth%  soups,  jutd  gravies, 

not  barned.  Sippets  may  be  stamped  with  pastry  stamps 
in  the  form  of  stars,  the  Maltese  cross,  triangles,  diamonds, 
)>aper- kites,  cocks'-combs,  &c.  Sec,  and  nicely  fried  and 
drained  before  the  fire  to  serve  for  ^mi^ings.  Fried 
bread  and  crumbs  are  most  useful  articles  for  garnishing, 
as  they  never  fail,  when  well  done,  to  be  eaten  with  the  dish 
they  are  employed  to  ornament. 

Another  FFa^.-^Fry  in  a  wire  basket ;  or,  as  a  substitute. 
In  a  colander  held  among  the  fr3ring  fat.  Crumbs  will  thus 
l»e  easily  lifted  when  dry  and  firm.  Parsley  fried  may  be 
afterwards  dried  in  the  oven. 

A8.  TO  PRY  HERBS  TO  SERVE  WITH  BACON  AND  EGGS,  OR  CALP's 

LIVER. 

Take  two  handfuls  of  spinage,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and 
a  few  chives  or  young  onions.  Pick,  cut,  wash,  drain, 
and  stew  them  slowly  in  a  very  little  broth  and  butter, 
taking  care  they  do  not  bum.  They  may  be  fried  in  a 
net,  or  wire  basket,  placed  in  the  frying  fat. 

N.B.  Far  Frying  Fish,  see  No.  136. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

C^est  la  soupe  qui  fait  le  soldat. 

French  Proverb. 

Soup  has  been  aptly  termed  the  vestibule  to  a  banquet. 
We  call  it  the  safest  foundation  to  the  principal  repast  of 
the  day,  whether  it  be  a  Cottage  or  a  Cabinet  dinner. 
With  this  belief  we  hold  as  maxims,  that  the  French  take 
the  lead  of  all  European  people  in  soups  and  broths  ;  that 
the  Scotch  rank  second,  the  Welsh  next ;  and  that  the 
English,  as  a  nation,  though  with  many  honourable  excep- 
tions, are  at  the  very  bottom  of  the  scale  ;  and,  farther, 
that  if  soup  be  the  foundation  of  a  good  dinner,  it  is 
equally  true  that  good  heef  is  the  best  foundation  of  the 
best  8(mp.     Whether  brown  or  white,  plain  or  rich,  tha 


\ 


BROTHS,  SOUFSy  AND  GRAVIES.  145 

basis  may  still  be  beef, — fresh-killed,  juicy  ripe  beef,  and 
soft  pure  water.* 

*  "  We  of  Scotland,"  said  Wintsrblossom,  *<  probably  owe  our 
Buperiority  in  this  department  to  our  long  and  close  alliance  with  that 
nation  which  has  ever  been  most  profoundly  skilled  in  the  mysteries  of 
the  soup-pot.  That  Scotland  is  indebted  to  France  for  the  proficiency 
she  has  attained  in  cookery,  is  abundantly  evident  from  the  culinary 
nomenclature  of  the  nation.  Kitchen — Cuisine — the  word  with  us 
comprehends  every  kind  of  viand  or  preparation  which  may  add  to  the 
relish  of  the  coarse  cake,  and  decoction  of  oatmeal  and  coleworts,  which 
formed  the  staple  of  the  daily  meal.  A jpeasant^s  butter,  cheese,  fish, 
meat,  and  so  forth,  are  all  his  *  kitchenj*  Then  we  have  the  hacfU — the 
soup  Lorraine,  and  d  la  JReine,  the  vecd  Flory— or  Florentine  pie— our 
brocfie  and  tum-broche,  and  our  culinary  adage,  *  Hunger  i»  gude  kitchen.'* " 
— ^**  If  you  go  on  at  this  rate,  you  will  soon  reduce  your  nation  to  their 
original  brose  and  haggis,^*  said  Jbkyll  ;  "  for  you  recollect  that  your 
skill  in  cabbage  and  coleworts  is  attributed  to  CfromwelPs  soldiers.*^ — 
**  Little  or  mickle,"  put  in  Mistress  Dods,  a  true-bred  Border  Scot, 
who  would  not  yield  an  inch  of  the  kitchen-floor  to  France  or  England. 
'*  we  mak^  better  use  o*  what  little  skill  is  accorded  to  us,  it's  like.  I 
have  heard  them  say  that  should  know,  and  that^s  the  Nawbob  himsel* 
there,  that  there  is  thousands  upon  thousands  o*  working  men^s  houses 
in  Lunon  whar  they  ne^er  saw  a  broth-trencher,  let-a-be  a  pot  o*  fat 
kail : — Cauld,  comfortless,  wasterfu*,  gude-for-naething  gangings  on,  for 
man,  virife,  and  wean.  Their  roast  joint,  —  set  them  up  !  —  scouthered 
to  a  cinder  in  a  baker^s  oven, — a  hun^r  and  a  burst, — dear  bought  at 
first,  and  a  short  outcome  for  a  working  man*s  family,  compared  with 
two  or  three  pots  fu^  o*  gude  barley-broth  from  the  same  joint  of 
meat" 

"Even  too  true,  Luckie,"  interrupted  the  Nabob;  "this  must  be 
cared  for.  The  Scots  may,  or  did  fail  in  a  grand  dinner,  Doctor,  —  no 
doubt  of  it ;  but  as  a  nation  they  manage  better  than  most  of  their 
neighbours, -— three  hot  meals  of  broth  and  meat  for  about  the  price  of 
one  roasting  joint,  perhaps.  Then  *  second  day^s  hailj  —  said  1  right, 
dame  ?  —  something-  to  warm  up  to-morrow  for  the  gudeman  and  the 
t>aims,  the  pot-au-feu  of  France  ?  " 

"  And  Kude  enough  too,"  rejoined  Meg  ;  "  sae  ye  need  not  cast  up 

fair  Scotland,  Captain  Jaykill.  A  week's  hunger  and  a  Sunday 
urst — ^their  hot  roast  joint — set  them  up !  We  may  be  easily  put  by ;  and 
the  Crude  forbid  we  were  belly-gods  and  pock-pudding  Eppycurryeans  ; 
though  at  a  Christening,  or  a  Kim,  or  on  a  Sacrament  Montjay,  we  may 
like  a  bit  roast  as  weel  as  our  nice-gabbit  neighbours." 

"  *      '  "  "  John 


^he  gormandizing  joys  of  John  Bull,"  cried  the  Nabob,  "  instead  of  his 
Sunday  roast  and  dilution  of  porter  ? — no,  sir,  soup  is  the  best  as  well 
as  the  most  economical  fare  for  dinner  a  mechanic's  family  can  consume. 
But  I  will  give  him  a  thousand  preparations." 

"  Besides  the  elegant  variety  of  Mr.  Georgb  Rose's  salt-herring', 
and  Cobbbtt's  toujours  fat — Very  fat — bacon,'*  said  Jbkyi.l,  who 
scented  a  long  prosing  harangue  and  wished  to  cut  it.      "But  let 


146  CHAP.  VI. — ^BROTHS,  SOUFS^  AND  GRAYIES. 

The  essential  qualities  of  soup  are,  that  it  be  nourishing 
and  restorative.  It  is  the  food  of  childhood  and  extreme 
old  age,  of  the  declining  and  the  debilitated,  for  whom 
the  soup-pot  performs  half  the  offices  of  the  digestive 
organs.  With  these  invigorating  and  salutiferous  qualities, 
the  mildest,  the  richest,  and  the  most  poignant  relishes 
may  be  combined,  by  the  judicious  employment  of  the 
numerous  ingredients  which  go  to  the  composition  of 
$€ups.  The  capital  defect  of  soups  is  not  in  general  so 
much  the  want  of  meat  as  of  the  time  necessary  to  the  due 
concoction  of  a  rich  fluid  composed  of  so  many  ingredients. 
The  defects  of  soups  are  vainly  attempted  to  be  concealed 
by  the  excessive  use  of  pepper  and  herbs.  The  following 
elementary  rules,  from  the  French  of  the  chemist  Parmen- 
tier,  were  assumed  by  the  Club  as  practical  directions  to  the 
cook : — 

RULES  FOR  MAKING  NOURISHING  BROTH. 

I.  Sound,  healthful,  fresh  viands. 

II.  Vessels  of  earthenware  in  preference   to  those  of 

metal,  as  a  less  degree  of  heat  keeps  them  boiling ; 
and  once  heated,  a  few  hot  cinders  will  maintain 
that  slight  degree  of  ebullition  which  is  all  that  is 
wanted. 

III.  Double  the  weight  of  water  to  that  of  the  meat  used. 

IV.  A  sufficient  quantity  of  common  salt  to  facilitate  the 

separation  of  the  blood  and  slime  that  coagulate 
under  the  form  of  scum. 

V.  In  the  early  stage  of  the  process  such  a  degree  of  heat 

as  will  throw  off  the  whole  scum. 

VI.  Afterwards  a  lower,  but  an  equal  temperature,  that 

the  soup  may  simmer  gently  till  the  substances 
employed,  whether  nutritive,  colouring,  or  flavour- 
ing, are  perfectly  combined  with  the  water,  ac- 
cording to  their  several  degrees  of  solubility. 
Besides  observing  these  rules,  use  the  softest  water,  and 
let  the  cook  read  the  observations  prefixed  to  the  Chapter 

Mistress  Dods  proceed  with  her  discourse,**  he  added.  Here,  however, 
the  Doctor  called  tJie  party  to  Order,  and  resumed  the  real  business  of  the 
day — Gravy-soup.  •  .  .  For  many  excellent,  cheap  Scotch  soups, 
see  National  Dtsbes,  and  Cookery  for  the  Poor, 


RULES  FOR  MAKING  STOCK  BROTB.  147 

on  Boiling,  and  attend  to  the  following  hints :  —  Some 
soups  are  very  good  when  made  the  day  hefore  they  are 
to  he  eaten,  as  the  top-fat  can  he  remoyed  in  a  cake,  and 
they  can  he  cleared  more  effectually,  and  also  attain  more 
complete  consistence,  where  a  thick  hody  is  required, 
{Sc^tice^  lithiness,)  without  losing  their  flavour  ;  hut  they 
need  not  he  seasoned  till  wanted,  and  should  then  he 
slowly  heated  to  the  hoiling  point.  If  permitted  to  hoil, 
most  re-warmed  soups  will  lose  part  of  their  flavour  ;  and 
in  stew-soups  the  meat  will  harden.  Excellent  judges 
differ  on  this  point.  Many  think  every  hot  preparation 
best  when  fresh-cooked, — and  soups  of  the  number.  Of 
the  kinds  that  will  keep,  and  that  may  he  prepared  before- 
hand, are  brown-soup,  hare- soup,  soup  of  game  of  any 
kind,  giblet<-soup,  and  generally  all  soups  made  of  the  meat 
of  animals  of  mature  growth.  Soups  into  which  vegetables 
and  young  meats  enter  in  any  quantity,  are  best  when 
fresh-made,  as  these  things  have  a  tendency  to  ferment. 
This  also  holds  especially  of  veal  and  fish  soups.  This  ten- 
dency may  be  partly  checked  by  boiling  them  up,  and 
changing  the  vessels.  In  re-warming  all  previously-made 
scupsy  hrothsy  Muces^  and  grcmes^  if  they  cannot  be  heated 
by  steam,  or  by  the  vessel  containing  them  being  com- 
pletely plunged  into  a  stew-pan  of  boiling  water,  or  a  bain 
marie,  particular  care  must  be  taken  that  they  are  not 
Mtnoked,  The  fire  must  be  clear,  and  the  lids  close ;  for 
things  re-warmed  are  more  liable  to  be  smoked  than 
4uring  their  first  preparation.  Soups  and  gravies  are 
best  kept  in  earthen  or  stoneware  vessels.  They  must  not 
be  covered  till  quite  cold ;  and  when  cold  and  covered, 
vegetable  soups,  &c.  may  be  plunged  into  a  though  or 
lai^e  vessel  of  spring  water.  Where  there  is  no  ice-house 
this  is  a  good  way  to  keep  cream  or  milk  sweet.  The 
wicker-work  boxes  or  baskets,  lined  with  charcoal,  used 
in  hot  climates,  might  often  be  useful  at  home  to  preserve 
meat,  ices,  &c.  When  soup  is  to  be  finished  or  warmed, 
take  off  the  cake  of  fat  which  settles  on  the  top,  strain,  and 
hold  back  the  lees  or  sediment. 

Give  all  soup  ample  time  in  making.  From  four  to 
six  hours  is  not  too  much ;  but  the  finer  flavouring 
ingredients  for  soups,  gravies,  or  made- dishes,  need  not  be 


l48  CHAP.  VI. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

added,  save  for  the  length  of  time  necessary  to  blend  the 
various  zests  into  one  harmonious  relish,  without  exposing 
them  to  that  degree  of  continued  heat  which  drives  off 
their  subtle  essence.  This  observation  is  peculiarly  appli- 
cable to  catsups,  aromatic  spices,  wines,  flavouring  vinegars, 
lemon  and  orange  juice,  &c. ;  and  a  much  smaller  quantity 
of  these  costly  ingredients  would  answer  the  purpose  if  it 
were  attended  to.  In  certain  cases  it  is  proper  to  put  in 
the  half  of  these  ingredients  at  an  early  stage  of  the  pro- 
cess, that  the  flavour  may  be  intimately  blended  with  the 
preparation,  adding  what  remains  to  give  piquance  near 
the  conclusion.  In  English  books  on  cookery  there  is 
often  too  much  wine  ordered  for  soups,  and  sometimes  too 
little  meat.  The  former  error  is  the  less  dangerous,  as 
what  is  levied  from  the  cellar  may  not  always  find  its 
way  to  the  soup-pot.  Roots,  bread-raspings,  or  barley,  for 
plain  common  soups,  ought  to  be  put  in  as  soon  as  the 
pot  is  skimmed,  when  the  roots  are  merely  intended  to 
thicken  and  flavour  the  soup.  When  to  be  cut  in  pieces 
and  served  in  the  broth,  an  hour's  boiling  is  fully  enough 
for  carrots,  turnips,  onions.  Many  things  are  used  to 
thicken  and  give  consistency  to  common  soups ;  not  the 
worst  is  the  mucilage  of  oatmeal :  but  rice-flour,  or  rice, 
potato-flour,  pearl-barley,  and  bread,  are  each  excellent. 
When  the  soup  or  gravy  is  too  much  boiled  down,  the 
waste  must  be  supplied  with  boiling  water  or  broth  ;  and 
though  in  general  we  strenuously  recommend  close-covered 
pots,  yet  when  the  soup  is  watery  and  weak,  the  lid  may 
be  taken  off  till  the  watery  particles  evaporate,  for  thickefi- 
ing  gives  consistence  but  not  strength.  It  facilitates  the 
operation,  if  meat  for  soup  or  gravy  be  cut  into  pieces  of 
about  a  half-pound  each  ;  and  it  improves  both  the  flavour 
and  colour,  if  the  meat,  onions,  and  carrots  be  browned 
with  a  bit  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the  soup-pot  or 
digester,  before  the  water  is  added  to  it.*  The  only  objec- 
tion is,  that  by  these  means  the  removal  of  the  scum  is 

*  To  this  previous  drawing  out  of  the  Juices  without  much  or  any 
water,  we  are  inclined  to  attribute  much  of  the  superiority  of  French 
soups  and  stews.  Some  French  cooks,  to  regulate  the  flavour  of  soups 
more  exactly,  boil  the  roots,  herbs,  and  vegetables  separately  to  a  mash, 
and  then  squeeze  them  and  add  the  juice,  till  the  desired  flavour  is 
obtained. 


JSTOCK  BBOTH.  149^ 

not  BO  complete  as  is  necessaiy  to  the  rock-crystal  trans- 
parency of  clear  soups.  Scotch  broth  made  of  fat  meat 
may  have  a  larger  proportion  of  greens,  leeks,  cabbage,  or 
whatever  ^reen  vegetable  is  used,  than  leaner  meat.  The 
best  plain  browning  for  high-flavoured  soups,  sauces, 
gravies,  &c.  is  red  wine,  soy,  or  mushroom  or  walnut 
catsup.  Where  these  are  not  admissible,  use  crusts  of 
bread  well  browned,  browned  flwir  or  browned  oatmeal 
where  thickening  is  required,  the  meat  browned  in  the  pot 
before  putting  in  the  water,  and  the  onions  fried  a  fine 
deep  brown.  But  a  more  elegant  because  paler  tint  is 
simply  got  by  the  carrots,  the  black  peppercorns,  and  the 
skins  of  the  onions,  which  should  be  topped,  tailed, 
and  washed,  but  not  peeled  before  being  put  to  the  soup. 
(See  Broumingfor  Soups  and  Made  Dishes.) — To  improve 
the  colour,  many  cooks  sacrifice  the  flavour  of  their  soups. 
Burnt  meat  or  bones,  burnt  sugar  or  treacle,  are  all  con- 
demned by  us. 

The  cook  is  entreated  to  bear  in  mind,  that  the  beauty 
of  all  clear  gravy  br(yum  soups  consists  in  transparencyy 
united  with  richness  and  flavour, — ^to  obtain  which  skim 
carefully  and  simmer  slowly  ;  and  of  tphite  soups,  and  fish 
and  vegetable  soups,  in  the^goodness  of  the  desired  colour, 
and  in  fulneOss  or  velvetiness  on  the  palate. 

Soup  may  be  made  in  an  infinity  of  ways.  There  is 
no  end  to  the  combinations  of  meat,  game,  fish,  herbs, 
roots,  spices,  and  mucilage,  with  water ;  but  the  basis  of 
the  best  soup,  whether  expense  is  either  an  object  or  no 
object,  is,  iLs  we  have  said,  beef, — fresh,  full  of  juices,  mature^ 
succulent,  but  not  too  fat, — the  lean  parts  of  an  equally 
fattened  animal.  For  this  Primary  soup  we  give  the  fol- 
lowing tried  and  approved  receipt : — 

59.    PLAIN  STOCK  BROTH. 

The  Basis  of  many  Soups  and  Sauces* 
In  large  families,  or  if  the  cook  is  to  have  a  large  dinner, 
let  her,  on  the  previous  day,  prepare  the  Stock  broth. — To 
every  pound  of  fresh  juicy  beef,  or  a.  shin  broken,  allow  a 
quart,  or,  if  wanted  very  strong,  a  third  less  of  soft  water, 
and  to  this  add  any  fresh  trimmings  of  lean  mutton, 
veal,  poultry,  or  game,  which  the  larder  affords*     A^ 


150  CHAP.  TI. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  ORAYIfS. 

old  fowl,  a  rabbit,  or  a  knuckle  of  veal,  are  excellent 
additions,  and  with  these  less  meat  will  serve, — a  good 
fresh  bone,  sawed,  is  a  cheap  help  to  any  stock-pot. 
When  the  broth  is  rendered  pellucid  by  boiling, 
skimming,  and  clearing,  as  directed  in  the  observations 
on  boiling,  put  to  it  an  ounce  of  salt,  the  same  of  black 
peppercorns,  and  a  half  ounce  of  pimento  corns,  two  carrots, 
two  turnips,  four  large  onions  in  their  skins,  four  cloves, 
some  good  leeks,  if  you  like  the  flavour,  a  fagot  of  herbs, 
and  a  head  or  two  of  celery.  There  are,  however,  some 
purposes  for  which  stock  is  wanted  to  which  this  quantity 
and  kind  of  vegetables  may  be  unsuitable ;  and  this  is  left 
to  the  judgment  of  the  cook.  Half  the  quantity  specified 
will  do  for  one  large  tureen.  Let  the  soup  boil  for  from 
four  to  six  hours,  according  to  the  quantity.  If  left  too 
long  on  the  fire,  the  flavour  of  the  vegetables  will 
deteriorate,  the  colour  will  spoil,  and  the  broth  become 
ropy.  When  a  good  soup  merely  is  wanted,  without  re- 
gard to  the  meat,  boil  quickly  with  the  lid  aslant  to 
reduce.  When  done,  let  it  settle,  skim  ofi^  the  fat,  (which 
will  be  useful  for  moistening  hraisesy  enriching  vegetables, 
&c.)  pour  it  from  the  sediment ;  strain  it  through  a  tammy, 
and  set  by  for  use.  • 

Obs,  As  car  object  is  to  unite  judicious  economy  with  good 
eookery,  it  is  proper  to  mention,  that  each  of  the  material  ingre- 
dients of  the  stock-pot  may  be  tamed  to  good  account.  The 
meat  may  be  put  on  early  on  the  day  of  the  dinner,  and  may  be 
kept  hot  to  serve  -at  the  servants'  table,  while  it  affords 
stock  for  the  soups,  sauces,  and  braises.  Or  it  may  be 
served  In  the  first  course  as  heef  garni  de  ehoux ;  or  garni  de 
raeines,  or  as  plain  bouilli,  as  directed  for  that  dish,  by  taking 
it  up  when  just  enough  done,  and  placing  it  in  a  stew-pan,  with 
•  a  few  ladlefuls  of  the  top  of  the  broth,  to  serve  as  a  sauce. 
If  a  fowl  is  boiled  in  the  stock-pot,  let  it  be  trussed  before  boil- 
ing, and  it  may  be  served  with  rice,  or  any  suitable  sauce,  or 
au  gro8  set ;  so  may  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  rabbit  with  onions, 
or  a  brace  of  partridges  with  a  proper  sauce.  In  large 
private  establishments,  where  broth  for  soups  and  sauces  is 
constantly  required,  these  articles,  of  which  Stock  is  best 
formed,  may  be  served  at  the  different  tables,  or  on  different 
days.*    The  Stock  being  made,  the  Cook  is  now  in  possession 

*  For  hotels,  cluhs,  regimental  messes,  &c.  these  hints  are  valu- 
able ;  for  each  of  these  dishes,  besides  causing  no  loss,  will  actually 


STOCK-BROTH — 8BC0ND  STOCK.  151 

of  a  fioating  eapital  snbserrieiit  to  many  purposes. — See  Nob. 
582-3-4. 

60.  STBONGBR  STOCK,  the  ConsommS  of  the  French  Kitchen,'^ 
This  is  the  same  thing,  only  stronger  than  the  former 
broth.  Take  a  large  old  fowl,  or  a  cock,  a  large  knuckle,  or 
a  good  piece  of  the  leg  of  veal,  a  piece  of  juicy  beef,  and  any 
game  you  have  to  spare ;  put  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  then  the  cut  meat ;  moisten  with  a  pint  of 
stock.  No.  59 ;  let  it  catch  the  fire  till  the  juices  are  drawn  ; 
then  add  more  first  stock  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  to  the 
pound  of  meat ;  skim,  season  with  a  carrot,  two  or  three 
onions,  two  cloves,  some  parsley,  and  a  head  of  celery. 
Let  the  fowl  only  boil  till  enough  done  for  the  table,  and 
the  knuckle  of  veal  only  till  done.  Then  again  skim  and 
carefully  strain  this  consommS  through  a  fine  sieve. — N.B. 
Ham  is  often  ordered  for  these  Stock  broths ;  but  unless 
for  gravies,  to  enrich  ragouts,  or  to  make  certain  sauces,  it  is 
seldom  employed.  Indeed,  it  is  more  suitable  to  savoury 
gravies  than  to  the  bland,  elementary  broth,  from  which 
mUd  soups  and  sauces  are  to  be  made. 

61.    RICHER  HIGH-FLAVOURED  STOCK. 

Line  a  well-tinned  stew-pan  with  slices  of  good  ham, 
over  this  place  slices  of  veal  from  the  thick  of  the  knuckle, 
and  a  fowl  or  brace  of  game  cut  to  pieces.  When  the 
meat  has  been  sweated  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  juices  have 
formed  a  glaze^  moisten  the  whole  with  a  quart  and  a  half 
of  strong  stock,  and  season  with  chopped  mushrooms,  pars* 
ley,  green  onions,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  two  cloves.  Strain 
and  thicken  it,  when  stewed,  with  white  or  brown  thick- 
ening, and  keep  to  use  in  cooking. 

62.  VERT  STRONG  STOCK,  the  Chand  ConsommS  of  the  French 

Kitchen^ 

Make  this  exactly  as  Second  Stock,  but  use  more  veal 
and  ppultry  and  less  beef,  if  convenient.  This  is  the  basis 
of  many  French  sauces,  and  clear  gravy-soups.* 

be  more  rieh  boiled  in  the  stock-pot,  than  if  cooked  separately.  A 
fowl  au  groi  set,  means  one  sprinkled  when  dished  with  grains  of  large 
bright  salt. 

*  French  cookery  is  imagined  to  be  a  very  complicated  affair.  It  is, 
in  fact,  more  easily  understood  than  our  own,  because  its  principles  are 
more  fixed,  and  its  language  more  scientific.    The  Beauvillerian,  th» 


152  CHAP.  VI. BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  ORAYIES. 

63.  CLEAR  GRAVT-soup,  the  Bosts  of  many  of  the  Soups 

mentioned  afterwards* 

Ha  YE  eight  pounds  of  a  shin  of  beef,  chopped  across,  a 
knuckle  of  veal,  or  a  scrag  of  mutton,  with  any  fresh 
trimmings  the  larder  can  furnish,  and  a  piece  of  lean  ham, 
if  the  ham>flavour  is  admired.  Heat  and  rub  hard  a 
nicely-tinned  stew-pot ;  melt  in  it  some  butter,  or  rub  it 
with  marrow.  Let  the  meat,  with  a  carrot,  a  head  of 
celery,  three  onions,  and  a  turnip,  each  sliced,  catchy  but  not 
bum,  over  a  rather  quick  fire ;  then  add  five  quarts  of 
soft  water.  Carefully  skim,  as  formerly  directed.  When 
skimmed,  throw  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  to  refresh  it,  and 
take  off  what  more  scum  is  detached  till  it  become  quite 
limpid.  If  the  soup  is  not  sufficiently  transparent,  it  may 
be  clarified  by  the  whites  and  broken  shells  of  two  eggs 
being  boiled  up  with  it,  for  a  few  minutes,  before  it  is 
strained  a  second  time  ;  but  careful  first  cookery  is  much 
better  than  second  processes,  which  hurt  the  flavour.  Let 
the  stew-pot  simmer  slowly  by  the  fire  for  four  hours, 
(without  stirring  it  any  more  from  the  bottom,)  till  all 
the  strength  is  obtained,  but  not  so  long  as  to  cause  the 
•soup  to  become  ropy.  Take  it  off  and  let  it  settle  ;  Iskim 
off  the  fat,  and  strain  off  gentlj*  what  flows  freely  through 
a  tammy.  —  Obs.  This  clear  soup,  (for  it  must  be  very 
clear,)  is  served  under  many  difierent  names ;  as,  Vermi* 
celliy  if  with  this  paste  separately  boiled  and  put  to  it, 
when  ready  to  serve ;  Carrot-soupj  if  with  the  red  of 
boiled  carrots  cut  in  straws ;  Tumip-soupy  with  turnips 

Udean,  and  Veryean  systems  are  laid  down  as  clearly  as  the  Linnsean. 
Modem  French  professors  have  a  few  grand  sounding  names  which  they 
bestow  on  elementary  gravies  and  sauces,  as  £}sp<wnole,  Grande  Espor- 
gnole.  Sspoffnole  Travaillie^  Italienne  Blanche,  /tatienne  Rotbsse,  &c. 
and  these,  once  defined  and  properly  understood,  remain  ever  the  same. 
Our  sauces,  like  our  native  melodies,  are  so  overlaid  with  every  body's 
variations,  that  it  is  difficult  for  the  most  correct  ear  or  the  most  discri-> 
minating  palate  to  recognise  them.  And  along  with  all  our  culinary 
deficiencies,  our  cookery-books  give  double  the  number  of  transmogrified 
and  unintelligible  receipts  that  are  to  be  found  in  the  bulkiest  French 
systems.  On  their  comparative  value  I  do  not  pronounce. — H.  J. 
We  must  add,  that,  of  late,  French  cooks,  like  French  milliners,  have 
become  most  perplexingly  inventive  of  fine  names ;  as  the  same  dish 
will  have  twenty  different  names  though  it  remains  the  self- same  pre- 
paration. 


FRENCH  AND  900ICH  BROWH  SOUP— WHITE  SOUPS.      150 

scooped;  Celery'-soupy  Atparoffva-^oup^  Green  Petue-toupj 
&c.,  by  adding  the  ingredient  which  gives  the  name.  — 
N.B.  All  these  additions  are  usually  separately  cooked. 
When  all  or  the  greater  part  of  these  vegetables,  stewed 
and  carefiolly  rubbed  through  a  tammy  sieve,  are  added  to. 
a  strong  gravy-soup,  you  have  exactly  the  French  Creey- 
soup.  A  good  French  cook  would,  however,  after  chop- 
ping the  roots,  &c.,  first  stew  them  in  top-fat  or  butter. 
The  French  generally  have  their  turnip-soup  wM«,  their 
carrot-soup  brmon.  Sippets  are  requisite  to  the  Pctage  d 
la  Crety,  With  chopped  lettuce  and  sorrel  this  Orety-- 
soup  makes  Saupe  a  la  Faubanne. 

64.  FRENCH  BROWN  SOUP,  OT  La  Bruncis€. 

To  clear  amber-coloured  gravy-soup  put  carrots  and 
turnips,  cut  in  dice,  straws,  or  like  very  small  pears,  with  a 
root-cutter,  and  first  fried  and  drained,  if  young,  but  if 
old  parboiled.  Soak  toasted  sippets  in  a  basin  of  broth, 
and  slip  them  into  the  tureen  after  the  soup  is  dished,  lest 
they  crumble  down  and  destroy  the  brightness  of  the  soup. 
This  is  proper  whenever  bread  is  used.  Skim  off  any  film 
of  fat  from  the  tureen,  and  serve.  —  Obs.  Cut  boiled  leeks 
and  celery  in  fillets  like  very  fine  straws,  of  an  inch  and 
half  in  length,  and  cooked  turnips  and  carrots  in  the  same 
shape,  or  the  red  of  the  carrots  in  thin  straws  and  the 
turnips  in  thin  slices,  stamped  with  small  pastry  stamps, 
the  whole  boiled  in  the  soup  for  a  few  minutes,  and  you 
have  Julienne  soup.  The  roots  cannot  be  too  delicately 
cut,  and  many  are  considered  vulgar.  A  cupful  will  do 
for  a  large  tureen* 

Spinaos  Soup — A  very  elegant  and  favourite  mild  soup 
d  la  Fran^ise,  is  made  by  gently  slipping  a  few  balls  of 
spinage,  the  size  of  small  eggs,  into  a  tureen  of  clear 
golden  brown  soup :  the  sparkling  emerald  green  of  the 
spinage  contrasting  beautifully  with  the  brilliant  topaz  htie 
of  the  soup.    See  from  Nos,  607  to  618,  JFVench  Soups, 

65.    THE  OLD  SCOTCH  BROWN  SOUP. 

Make  the  stock  as  directed  for  clear  gravy-soup,  but 
brown  the  meat  a  little  more,  and,  when  the  stock  is  ready, 
put  to  it  two  pounds  of  inimp  steaks,  cut  rather  small,  and 
nicely  browned  in  the  frying-pan,  but  drained  from  the  fry- 
ing fat.   Simmer  the  steaks  in  the  soup  for  an  hour ;  strain 


]  5'k  CHAP.  YI. ^BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  ORAVIBS. 

it ;  add  a  small  glassful  of  catsup,  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
cayenne;  slip  toasted  sippets  into  the  tureen,  and  skimming 
off  any  filmy  fat,  serve  the  soup  with  the  steaks  in  it. 
Without  the  steaks,  which  one  now  rarely  sees^  this  is 
plain  hrovm  soup, 

66.  PLAIN  WHITE  STOCK /or  geverol  kinds  of  Soup'^he 

French  Blonde  de  VeaUy  or  Veal  Broih, 
Have  a  large  knuckle  of  veal  broken,  and  to  this  put 
any  poultry  trimmings  you  have,  and  a  few  slices  of  lean 
ham,  a  carrot,  three  onions,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Moisten 
these,  (when  laid  in  a  nice  stew-pan  over  which  butter 
has  been  rubbed,)  with  a  little  good  broth  or  water. 
When  the  jelly  is  partly  drawn  out,  and  the  meat  tinged 
a  little,  prick  it  all  over  with  a  sharp  knife  to  let  the 
juices  flow,  and  add  more  clear  broth  or  water  till  you 
have  enough.  Add  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  onions,  and  a 
large  tea-spoonful  of  white  peppercorns;  boil  and  skim,  and 
when  the  soup  is  ready,  skim  again  and  carefully  strain 
it.  Cooked  rice  or  vermicelli  is  put  toHhis  soup.  If  a 
white  colour  is  wished,  thicken  with  arrow-root,  and  add 
gradually,  before  serving,  a  pint  of  sweet  cream. — N.B. 
Always  boil  cream  before  putting  it  to  any  soup  or  sauce, 
and  stir  carefully  till  it  again  boil.  Keep  the  soup  hot  in 
a  bain  marie,  or  pot  of  water. 

67.  THE  OLD  SCOTCH  WHITE  SOUP,  OT  Soup  d,  la  Eetne* 
Take  a  large  knuckle  of  yeal,  well  broken  and  soaked, 

a  nice  fowl  skinned,  or  two  chickens,  a  quarter-pound  of 
well-coloured,  lean,  undressed  bacon,  two  sprigs  of  lemon- 
thyme,  three  onions,  a  carrot,  celery,  a  white  turnip,  and 
a  few  white  peppercorns,  and  two  blades  of  mace.  Boil  for 
about  two  hours ;  skim  repeatedly  and  carefully  during  that 
time.  When  tlie  stock  is  well  tasted,  strain  it  off.  It  vnll 
form  a  jelly.  When  to  be  used,  take  ofi^  the  surface-fat, 
clear  ofi^  the  sediment,  and  put  the  jelly  into  a  stew-pan 
nicely  tinned  ;  boil  for  a  half-hour,  and  serve  on  a  couple 
of  rounds  of  a  small  French  roll ;  or  with  macaroni  pre- 
viously soaked,  and  stewed  in  some  soup  till  perfectly  soft ; 
or  rice  or  vermicelli.    This  is  plain  White  Soup*  It  is  raised 

*  This  soup  was  introduced,  or  rather  revived  in  Scotland  by 
Hume  the  historian,  after  his  residence  in  Paris ;  see  his  letters  to 
Adam  Smith  on  his  culinaiy  experiments. — Burtim*9  Life  ofHume^ 


\ 


ONION-SODFS.  155 

to  LoRRAiNB  soup  as  followB :  —  Take  a  half  pound  of 
sweet  almonds,  blanched,  (that  is,  scalded  and  the^husks 
rubbed  off  in  a  cloth,)  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
and  the  skinned  breast  and  white  parts  of  a  cold  roast 
fowl ;  beat  the  almonds  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  with  a 
little  water  to  prevent  their  oiling ;  mince  very  finely  the 
fowl  and  eggs  with  some  bread-crumbs.  Add  to  this  hash 
an  English  pint  or  more  of  the  stock,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel, 
and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg ;  bring  it  to  boil,  and  put  to  it  a 
pint  of  boiling  cream,  and  the  rest  of  the  stock.  Let  it  be 
for  a  considerable  time  on  the  very  eye  of  boiling,  that  it 
may  thicken,  but  take  care  it  does  not  boil,  lest  the  cream 
curdle.  Strain  through  a  sieve.  Two  yolks  of  eggs  beat 
will  do  for  half  the  cream. 

68.  POTAGE  A  LA  BEiNE,  or  VICTORIA  SOUP,  the  fotihUmobU 

White  Soup, 
Take  a  couple  of  large  or  three  small  fat  pullets ;  clean 
and  skin  them  :  take  also  two  pounds  or  more  of  veal  cut 
into  pieces,  and  a  half  pound  of  lean  ham ;  put  these  to- 
gether into  a  very  nice  stew-pan,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  moisten  them  with  clear  boiling  veal-broth.  Let  this 
stew  softly  for  an  hour ;  then  soak  in  the  broth  the  soft 
part  of  a  penny  loaf ;  cut  the  flesh  off  the  breasts  and 
wings  of  the  chickens ;  chop  and  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a 
mortar  with  the  hard  yolks  of  two  eggs,  the  soaked  crumbs, 
ten  sweet  almonds  and  three  bitter,  all  blanched.  Rub 
the  compound  into  the  soup ;  strain  the  whole ;  and  add 
gradually  a  quart  of  sweet  cream  brought  to  boil  by  itself ; 
boil  it  up,  stirring  till  served.  It  may  be  farther  tMckened 
with  arrow-root.  The  seasoning  should  be  mild  ;  and  a 
bit  of  sugar  is  an  improvement.  Cow-Hbel  or  Calf'h 
Feet  make  a  good  White  Soup  stock.  Rabbits  may  be 
economically  substituted  for  chickens,  and  beef  for  veal. 

69.   PLAIN  ONION-SOUP. 

Chop  a  dozen  large  mild  onions,  and  stew  them  in  a 
small  stew-pan  with  butter ;  stir  them  about  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  let  them  cook  very  gradually  and  not  get 
brown.  Put  to  this  some  very  strong  stock-broth,  well*- 
seasoned ;  add  pepper,  cayenne,  and  salt,  and,  if  nicer 
cooking  is  wanted,  strain  the  soup,  and  put  to  it  a  pint  of 
boiling  cream.  * 


150  CHAP.  VI. — BROTHSy  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

70.    SUPERLATIVE  ONION-SOUP. 

Have  a  proper  quantity  of  well-seasoned,  clear  browu 
gravy-soup,  in  which  a  double  proportion  of  onions  and  a 
fagot  of  seasoning  herbs  have  been  boiled.  To  this,  when 
strained,  put  a  dozen  middle-sized  onions,  sliced  and  nicely 
fried  ;  let  these  stew  gently  in  the  soup,  not  to  crumble  the 
slices ;  season  with  pepper  and  cayenne,  and  serve  with 
toasted  sippets  in  the  tureen.  Button  onions^  cooked  as  for 
garnishing  bauilliy  No.  262,  &c.,  may  be  used  instead  of 
large  ones  fried ;  and  for  those  who  like  a  full-tasted  soup, 
this  may  be  thickened  with  rice-flour,  or  the  pulp  of  peas* 
It  may,  if  liked,  be  simmered  till  the  onions,  both  in  sub- 
stance and  flavour,  are  thoroughly  blended  with  the  soup. 
— Obs.  The  ffiuto  may  be  heightened  and  the  flavour  varied 
jto  suit  the  palate  of  the  consumer.  Currie-powder  was  a 
favourite  addition  of  the  Nabob,  and  also  a  spice  of  ginger, 
which  made  a  sort  of  imitation  MuUagatawny  superior  to 
the  original,  to  those  who  dislike  forJb-soups  and  steto-s&upSd 
Dr.  Redgill  heightened  the  flavour  of  his  onion-soup  with 
mushroom-catsup,  or  eschalot.  As  the  taste  for  onions 
and  garlic,^  like  that  for  olives,  piquant  sauces,  and 
peppers,  increases  with  age,  we  do  not,  in  any  case,  flx  the 
precise  quantity  to  be  used,  but  merely  give  the  medium. 
Some  cooks  thicken  onion-soup  with  a  liaison  of  the  yolk  of 

*  Onions  are  supposed  to  possess  a  considerable  quantity  of  nourish- 
ment. It  is  even  asserted,  that  no  substance  of  only  equal  bulk  affords 
so  much.  This  is  at  least  doubtful.  Onions  in  their  raw  state  are 
much  relished  by  some  persons,  while  others  find  them  wholly  indi- 
gestible :  they  are  very  generally  acceptable  in  soup  or  sauce.  They 
used  to  form  the  favourite  bon-bons  of  the  Hij^hlanaer,  **  who,  with  a 
few  of  these  and  an  oat-cake,  would,*^  says  Sir  John  Sinclair,  "  travel 
an  incredible  distance,  and  live  for  days  without  other  food.^*  The 
Egyptians  adored  the  Onion  nearly  as  much  as  the  Ox  ;  and  the  Spa- 
niards have  the  same  fondness  for  this  pungent  root,  whether  to  give 
savour  to  their  rich  dishes,  or  to  relish  the  crust  from  the  wallet,  and 
the  draught  from  the  brook,  which  form  the  gay  repast  of  the  poor  and 
light-hearted  sojourners  one  likes  so  much  to  meet  with  in  the  Spanish 
novels.  The  Scotch  peasants  seasoned  their  ckappit  potatoes  with  shred 
onion,  and  sometimes  their  brose ;  and  the  grave  and  high  authority  of 
Mrs.  Hannah  More  recommends  "  an  onion  from  their  own  garden, 


after  hard  drinking  or  night-watching,  and  holds  among  soups  the  place 
that  Champagne,  soda-water,  or  |;inger-beer,  does  among  liquors. 


ONION-SOUPS.  167 

two  or  three  eggs  well  beat  and  whisked  into  the  soup 
before  it  is  dished,  or  with  cream,  as  in  last  receipt. 

71.    ONION-SOUP  MAIGRE, — good. 

Chop  and  fry  in  butter  a  dozen  large  onions,  two 
heads  of  celery,  and  a  large  carrot  and  turnip  sliced. 
Pulp-  the  roots  through  a  tammy,  and  put  them  to  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water  thickened  with  six  ounces  of  butter 
kneaded  up  with  rice  flour,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  mace, 
and  white  pepper.  The  crumb  of  two  penny  loaves  may 
be  boiled  in  the  water  instead  of  the  rice  flour,  but  it  must 
then  be  strained.  Add  bread-sippets  fried,  and  thicken 
with  the  beat  yolks  of  four  e^^. 

72.  poTAOE  A  LA  CLERMONT,  att  elegant  Onion-soup, 

Brown  a  dozen  small  silver  onions  cut  in  rings,  of  a  nice 
golden  tinge,  and  drain  them  ;  cook  them  lightly  in  a 
little  broth,  and  stew  them  for  twenty  minutes  in  clear 
g¥avy-broth,  coloui-ed  with  veal  jelly-gravy,  which  is  an 
excellent  material  for  colouring  soups  or  sauces.  Serve 
with  toasted  sippets  previously  soaked  in  the  tureen. 

73.    VEGETABLE  MARROW,  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKE,  AND  OTHER 

VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 

Trim  and  slice  nice  young  Vegetable  Marrow.  Stew  it 
in  veal  or  fowl  broth.  [The  liquor  in  which  a  young 
turkey  is  boiled  is  excellent  for  vegetable  and  paste  soups.] 
When  boiled  almost  to  a  mash,  press  the  marrow  through 
a  sieve  :  add  boiling  cream  or  yolk  of  egg  when  nearly 
cooked.  Grated  cocoa-nut  is  an  excellent  addition.  Add 
white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  It  may  be  dished  on 
toasted  sippets.  Under  the  head  Vegetable  Soups,  or 
Potages,  the  French  comprehend  an  endless  variety  of  pre- 
parations, many  of  them  maigre*  Under  it  might  also 
be  included  the  Welsh  Leek-porridge,  and  the  Scottish 
Nettle  Kail,  and  Pan-kail.  But  those  mild,  wholesome, 
and  even  elegant  pctctges  are,  as  we  have  seen,  not  neces- 
sarily maigre.  In  preparing  them,  the  main  object  of  the 
cook  is  to  have  the  soup  of  a  fine  clear,  pale-green  colour, 
which  is  obtained  by  the  expressed  juice  of  spinage,  pars- 
ley, green  onions,  or  pea-shell  liquor,  using  the  colouring 
ingredient  most  suitable  to  the  nature  of  the  soup.  Vege- 
table soups  require  a  good  deal  of  pepper,  and  are  improved 


f  58  CHAP.  VI. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  ORAVIKS. 

by  a  spice  of  cayenne.  They  will  not  keep.  If  the  vege- 
tables are  bitter,  a  bit  of  sugar  will  help  to  correct  that 
quality,  and  is  a  good  addition.  —  See  No.  75.  These 
mature  vernal  compositions  found  little  favour  in  the  eyes 
of  the  elder  members  of  the  Cleikum  Club,  who  thought 
them  only  fit  for  sickly  girls  and  young  Cockney  poets. 
They,  however,  afford  an  elegant  and  wholesome  variety, 
and  are  now  well  prepared  at  the  shops,  like  richer  soups. 

74.    MACARONI  AND  OTHER  PASTE  SOUPS. 

This  elegant  class  of  soups  are  coining  fast  into  general 
favour  and  use,  and  are  easily  prepared.  They  are  Macch 
ronif  Vermicelliy  Semolina^  NouiUej  and  Cagliari^  and 
other  paste  soups,  and  with  them  may  be  classed  sago 
and  tapioca  soup,  and  the  varieties  of  rice  and  arrow-root 
soups,  also  what  is  thickened  with  the  Canna  starch  called 
Tcua  les  mots. 

Vermicelli  soup. — Break  two  ounces  of  vermicelli  into 
.minute  bits :  soak,  blanch,  and  drain  it ;  drop  it  lightly,  and 
by  degrees,  into  two  quarts  of  clear  boiling  gravy  soup; 
scum  and  stew  it  gently  for  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  but 
not  so  long  as  to  get  into  lumps  :  the  French  put  a  great 
deal  of  vermicelli,  and  other  pastes  into  their  poiages.  To 
vermicelli  soup  they  sometimes  add  dressed  young  peas  or 
asparagus  tops. 

Ma4iarom  Soup. — ^Throw  three  ounces  of  fresh  ribbon 
macaroni  into  boiling  water  :  boil  for  eight  minutes  or 
ten  if  hard ;  when  it  is  done  drain  and  cut  it  into  thin 
delicate  rings,  and  drop  it  into  two  quarts  of  clear  gravy 
stock  :  serve  grated  Parmesan  with  this,  and  all  soups 
made  with  Italian  pastes. 

Cagliari  Soup,  is  made  precisely  as  the  above ;  but  as  the 
paste  is  here  ready  prepared  in  stars,  rings,  Maltese  crossei^ 
&c.  &c.  it  needs  no  cutting,  and  looks  very  pretty. 

Semolina  Soup, — Semolina  is  an  excellent  preparation 
of  the  finest  wheat.  Make  the  soup  as  Vermicelli  above ; 
but  more  of  the  Semolina  may  be  used,  and  it  must  also 
be  dropt  carefully  and  by  slow  degrees,  not  to  get  into 
lumps ;  to  pi-event  which  stir  diligently  till  it  is  ready, 
which  will  be  in  from  twenty  to  thirty-five  minutes. 
Semolina  makes  an  excellent  pudding:  Sof^  and  Afanna- 


80UFS.  16& 

nmp  are  very  similar  to  Semolina,  bat  are  chiefly  used 
lor  the  food  of  infants  and  invalids.  These  soups  form 
elegant  pctages,  if  made  with  clear,  colourless  grayy,  or 
thickened,  and  boiling  cream  gradually  added  when  about 
to  be  served. 

Sago  and  Tapioca, — Potages  are  sometimes  made  of 
these  substances :  wash,  drain,  and  stew  them  in  gravy 
soup,  or  what  sort  of  stock  you  choose ;  good  fresh  brotli 
in  which  beef,  mutton,  or  veal  has  been  boiled,  answers 
very  well.  Sago  must  be  simmered  for  an  hour,  and 
Tapioca  rather  longer.  If  a  thick  pciage  is  wanted,  give 
two  ounces  to  every  quart  of  soup ;  if  a  fine  soup,  add 
wine  and  sugar  to  taste  to  the  usual  seasonings. 

Ob8»  All  of  the  above  soups  may  be  made  in  a  high 
style,  with  rich  and  very  clear  veal  or  fowl  gravy  soup  : 
or  cheap  and  plainly  with  any  kind  of  fresh  broth  that 
would  otherwise  be  lost.  The  French  often  serve  Quenelles 
of  chicken,  &c.  in  them.  Grated  Parmesan  should  accom- 
pany all  the  paste  soups. 

Imitation  of  Italian  pastes  and  Nouille  :  if  not  so  fine  as 
the  original  pastes,  lliese  have  the  advantage  of  being 
much  cheaper,  and  are  sure  to  be  fresh.  Make  a  paste 
with  the  yolks  of  half-a-dozen  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two, 
and  as  much  of  the  very  finest  dry  flour  as  it  will  take  to 
knead,  and  roll^  out  smoothly.  Work  it  well,  that  it  may 
be  tenacious ;  roll  out  as  thinly  as  possible  ;  cut  into 
fillets  about  an  inch  and  a-half  wide  ;  dust  and  rub  the 
strips  with  flour  :  and  laying  them  on  paper,  four  or  five 
above  each  other,  cut  into  the  thinnest  straws  or  fibres ;  or  it 
may  be  stamped  out  like  the  Cagliari  paste  with  fijie  pastry 
cutters.  Separate  the  strips  or  shapes  of  paste,  and  dry 
them  till  pretty  firm,  when  drop  gently  into  boiling  soup, 
(like  broken  vermicelli,)  and  taking  care  they  do  not  run 
together,  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  serve  the  soup.  Some 
French  cooks  put  nutmeg  and  pepper  to  the  paste.  Rasped 
eocodb^nut  we  consider  a  fine  ingredient  in  these  soups  if 
made  as  white  potages;  and  if  cocoa-nut  is  used  in  white 
soup,  made  of  veal  or  fowl  stock,  it  takes  a  name  from  the 
nut,  and  is  Ooeoa-Soup,  Cream  should  be  added,  and  wine 
«u^,  with  sufficient  cayenne,  and  a  bit  of  sugar* 


ICO  CHAP.  VI. BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

75.  GRfiEN  PEASE-SOUP, — Matgre, 
Have  shelled  fully  three  pints  of  fresh-gathered  marrowy 
peas.  In  shelling,  separate  the  old  from  the  young.  Melt 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  put  to  it  four 
imperial  pints  of  boiling  water,  a  slice  of  bread,  a  quart  of 
shelled  peas,  using  the  old  ones,  some  roughly-chopped 
green  onions,  spinage,  and  green  lettuce,  salt,  and  two  dozen 
corns  of  white  and  Jamaica  pepper.  Stew  till  the  peas 
will  pulp  back  into  the  liquor  from  which  they  are 
strained ;  or  they  may  be  pounded  in  a  mortar.  To  this 
add  a  pint  more  of  young  peas,  the  white  of  a  lettuce 
chopped,  and,  if  approved,  a  sliced  cucumber,  first  sprink- 
ling the  slices  with  salt,  soaking,  and  draining  them.  If 
the  soup  is  thought  too  thin,  add  rice-flour ;  if  too  maigre, 
allow  more  butter ;  if  not  green  enough,  add  a  little 
spinage  chopped,  or  a  glass  of  green  spinage-liquor,  made 
by  parboiling  and  squeezing  the  vegetable.  Stew  for  half 
an  hour,  but  do  not  let  the  soup  boil,  or  the  green  colour 
will  become  a  tawny  yellow.  Green  shred  mint  in  a  very 
small  quantity  may  be  added  to  flavour  the  soup  five 
minutes  before  it  is  dished.  Serve  with  dice  of  fried 
bread.  —  Obs.  This  summer  soup  may  be  made  gr(i8  from 
the  liquor  in  which  chickens,  fowl,  veal,  mutton,  or  lamb 
have  been  boiled.  If  the  peas  are  not  quite  young  and 
sweet,  a  little  sugar  may  be  employed,  and  consequently 
less  salt.  Peas,  fresh  gathered  and  quickly  cooked,  are  as 
superior  to  those  exposed  in  the  market  as  is  a  fresh-caught 
herring  or  mackerel  from  one  a  day  old.  Chantilly  Soup 
is  made  by  boiling  for  a  minute  or  two  a  puree  of  these 
delicate  peas  in  seasoned  stock. 

76.    GREEN  ASPARAGUS-rSOUP. 

Make  this  as  No.  75.  Slice  and  pulp  the  thick  part  of 
the  cooked  asparagus  ;  put  the  other  ps^rt,  cut  into  nice 
points,  and  dressed,  into  the  strained  soup  before  serving  ; 
or  substitute  fried  bread  cut  into  dice.  —  Obs,  Adding 
consommi  to  cold  dressed  peas  {petits  pots)  or  asparagus, 
will,  with  thickening  and  seasoning,  make  a  good  and 
economical  potage. 

77.  AN  excellent  soup  MAIGRE. 

Melt  a  half-pOund  of  butter  very  slowly,  and  put  to  it 


I 


PEASE-SOUP.  161 

four  onions  sliced,  a  head  of  celery,  and  a  carrot  and  tur- 
nip cut  down.  When  the  vegetables  have  fried  in  the 
butter  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  are  browned  on  all 
sides,  put  to  them  nearly  three  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  young  peas,  with  twelve  white 
and  Jamaica  peppercorns.  When  the  vegetables  are 
quite  tender,  let  the  soup  stand  to  clear  from  the  sediment, 
and  strain  it  into  a  clean  stew-pan.  If  not  yet  sufficiently 
transparent,  let  it  stand  an  hour,  and  turn  it  carefully 
over.  When  it  boils,  put  to  it  three  onions  shred,  or  five 
young  ones  ;  a  head  of  celery  cut  in  fillets,  carrots  sliced, 
and  cut  as  wheels  or  stars,  and  turnips  scooped  of  the 
size  of  marbles.  When  the  vegetables  are  enough  done, 
without  the  soilp  getting  ropy  from  their  dissolution,  the 
soup  is  finished.  This  and  all  vegetable  soups  are  tlie 
better  of  a  spice  of  cayenne. 

78.    THE  BEST  YELLOW  PEASE-SOUP. 

To  a  pound  and  a  half  of  split*  peas,  soaked  and 
floated,  to  separate  the  bad  ones,  and,  if  very  hard,  soaked 
again  for  two  hours  in  a  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  add 
three  quarts  of  very  soft  water,  and  three  pounds  of  neck 
or  shin  beef,  or  of  any  sinewy,  lean,  gelatinous  piece,  or 
trimmings  of  meat  or  poultry ;  a  slice  of  bacon,  or  a  knuckle 
of  either  a  bacon  or  mutton  ham  scalded  ^the  root  of  a 
tongue  salted  a  little,  and  well  soaked  to  draw  out  all  the 
slime,  does  very  well;)  two  well-sized  carrots,  two  turnips, 
and  four  large  or  six  smaller  onions.  When  this  has  been 
skimmed,  and  has  simmered  slowly  for  about  an  hour  and 
a-half,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  stick  to  the  bottom 
of  the  pot,  add  another  quart  of  boiling  water,  or  any  fresh 
pot-liquor  in  which  poultry  or  meat  has  been  boiled. 
Simmer   again  till    the  peas   are    comj^letely    dissolved. 

*  Whole  peas  are  often  sweeter  and  better  than  those  which  are 
split.  In  country  families  that  study  economy,  peas  of  the  gray  kind 
are  often  shelled  at  the  mill,  and  used  as  white  boilers.  The  colour  is 
not  so  fine,  but  the  soup  is  equally  good,  if  not  better.  Peas  will  mel- 
low better  in  the  pot,  if  first  soaked  a  night,  and  then  allowed  to  dry. 
They  may  be  broken  in  a  mill.  New  and  excellent  kinds  are  coming 
into  use.  We  have  seen  the  "  Glasgow  Brose  iVfea/,"  used  to  advan- 
tage in  thickening  Pease  and  even  Mullagatawny  soups.  It  is  a  high- 
toasted,  very  fine  flour. 

L 


J  €2      CHAP.  VI. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

i'our  the  soup  into  a  sieve,  set  over  an  earthen  pan  or 
stew-piot,  and  pulp  the  peas  through  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
taking  hack  some  strained  soup  to  moisten  what  remains 
till  the  whole  mash  is  pulped  through.  Add  salt,  white 
pepper,  and  the  onions  well  pulped,  to  the  strained  soup, 
a  head  of  fresh  celery  shred  roughly,  or  a  small  dessert- 
spoonful of  the  hruised  seed  (which  communicates  the 
flavour  in  a  strong  degree)  tied  up  in  a  muslin  hag,  and 
which  (we  need  not  say,)  must  be  lifted  out  before  the 
soup  is  dished.  Simmer  it  for  a  half-hour  or  three-quar- 
ters, if  too  thin.  Pour  it  into  the  tureen,  and  either  throw 
in  toasted  bread  cut  into  dice  or  diamonds,  or  serve  the 
dice  on  a  plate  :  many,  as  in  onion-soup,  like  currie  season- 
ing. Stir  up  the  soup  the  moment  before  it  goes  to  the 
table.  Butter  fried  with  flour  may  be  used  to  enrich  this 
soup.  For  Pease-Pottage  double  the  quantity  of  peas 
is  required. — Ohs»  This,  though  neither  the  most  expen- 
sive nor  elegant  of  soups,  is  a  favourite  family-dish  for 
nine  months  of  the  year.  It  can  be  made  of  an  inferior 
sort  of  any  thing  that  is  wholesome.  A  rump-bone,  the 
bones  of  meat  used  for  pies,  trimmings  of  a  roast,  &c.,  are 
all  excellent.  Roast  beef- bones,  if  not  stale  nor  charred, 
a  hock  of  ham,  or  fresh  dripping,  answer  very  well ; 
also  the  liquor  in  which  salt  meat  is  boiled — or  part 
of  it  —  with  the  exception  of  that  of  fat  rancid  pork, 
which,  save  in  cases  of  stem  necessity,  cannot  be  tole- 
rated by  us.  When  pease-soup  is  made  of  shi-eds  and 
patches  of  meat,  more  onion  or  celery  and  spice  should  be 
used  to  overcome  the  flavour  of  what  constitutes  the  basis 
of  the  soup.  The  grated  red  of  carrot  we  think  a  great 
improvement  to  this  soup.  A  very  convenient  way  of  mak- 
ing a  common  pease-soup  is,  to  have  pease-pudding  without 
eggs,  boiled,  ready  to  mix  with  the  liquor  in  which  meat  or 
fowls  are  dressed.  The  above  seasonings  are  then  to  be 
added,  and  the  soup  may  be  enriched  with  butter,  or  clari- 
fied fresh  dripping,  thickened  as  above  directed,  and  fin- 
ished in  an  hour.  Dried  mint  or  dried  parsley  is  some- 
times rubbed  and  strewed  into  this  soup,  or  chopped 
spinage.  Withholding  the  onions  and  celery,  and  substi- 
tuting  asparagus  points,  makes  pease-soup  an  excellent 


PEASE-PUDDING-^POTATO-  SOUP.  1 63 

plain  asparagus-soup.  By  the  addition  of  Currie-powdery 
Dr.  Hunter,  the  author  of  Oulinay  made  Currie  Pease- 
soup.  Dr.  Redgill  added  square  hits  pf  fried  bacon, 
cayenne,  fried  onions  or  cucumber,  and  concocted  a  soup  of 
the  Composite  Order,  which,  incompliment  to  the  inventor, 
was  named  by  the  Club,  Redgill's  Pease-Simp  Haut  Gout. 

79.   PBASB-PUDDINO. 

Marrowy  meltersy  whether  whole  or  split,  are  far  the 
best  peas  for  the  cook.  Soak  a  pint  the  necessary  length 
of  time :  boil  them  in  the  softest  water,  tied  loosely  in  a 
cloth  till  they  will  pulp  through  a  colander.  Add  salt, 
pepper,  two  beat  eggs,  a  good  piece  of  butter :  tie  up  firmly 
in  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil  (with  pork  if  boiling)  for  an- 
other half  hour  ;  hang  the  cloth  before  the  fire  till  the 
pudding  gets  firm,  then  turn  it  out. 

80.    POTATO-SOUP. 

This  cheap  and  favourite  soup  may  be  made  of  the 
same  materiids  as  Pease-soup^  or  of  any  liquor  in  which 
meat  has  been  boiled,  or  of  roast-beef  bones^  &c. ;  a  hock 
of  ham,  or  shank  of  mutton-ham,  or  any  thing  of  this 
kind,  may  be  advantageously  used  to  flavour  and  enrich 
it.  Season  with  onions,  celery,  or  parsley,  and  either 
thicken  with  mashed  potatoes,  or  sufier  the  potatoes,  pre- 
viously pared  and  parboiled,  to  fall  to  a  mash  in  the  soup. 

N.B. — ^Where  small  families  kill  a  sheep  now  and  then 
for  winter-store,  what  is  salted,  though  it  would  not  make 
even  tolerable  broth,  will  make  a  very  palatable  pease  or 
root  soup,  with  any  of  the  above  seasonings. 

81.   TO  GRILL  CRUSTS  FOR  SOUPS  AND  CHEESE. 

Put  the  cut  crusts  upon  a  small  wire .  gridiron  over  hot 
cinders  to  crisp.  When  done,  wet  the  inside  with  top-fat, 
and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  and  put  them  into  the 
tureen ;  or  crisp  them  over  a  furnace,  wetting  with  good 
stock.  Crusts  for  Toasted  Cheese, — Pull  rough  pieces  from 
a  quite  new  loaf,  brown  them  in  the  oven  or  before  the 
fire. 

N.B. — If  you  put  untoasted  bread  into  boiling  soup,  it 
will  swell,  crumble,  and  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  soup. 


164 


SOUP  AND  STEW,  OR  MOUTHFUL  SOUPS. 

Bt  the  above  names  the  reader  is  to  understand  all 
Bonps  in  which  meat,  fowl,  or  fish,  cut  in  mouthfula,  is 
dressed  and  serred.  Such,  for  example,  are  Mock  Turtle- 
Soup,  Kidney,  Ox-tail,  Lobster-Soup,  Oyster-Soup,  &c. 
This  is  a  division  which  we  think  was  wanted  in  books 
that  treat  of  the  culinary  art.  This  important  class,  be 
it  noticed,  comprehends  not  only  the  Oriental  Mullaga- 
tawny  and  the  oleaginous  Ox-rump,  but  even  the  spicy 
and  luscious  Turtle. 

[We  giye  no  receipt  for  dressiiig  Turtle,  an  affair  on  which  a 
Tolome  might  be  written,  so  oomplicated  and  yarions  are  the 
processes.  Rousseau  tells  of  a  Crerman  who  composed  a  whole 
Yolame  on  the  zest  of  a  lemon.  What  then  might  not  be  said  on 
that  which  comprehends  all  zests. — '^  The  Soyereign  of  Savonri- 
ness,"  the  Olio  compounded  "  of  every  creature's  best ! "  As 
none  but  thorough-bred  men  of  science  are  ever  intrusted  with 
dressing  a  Turtle,  the  Cleikum  Club  did  not  presume  to  instruct 
them,  and  thought  the  receipts  found  in  cookery  books  for  this 
article  merely  so  many  make-bulks.  Female  cooks  are  excellent 
in  their  own  way ;  but  no  woman  ever  yet  succeeded  in  writing 
an  Epic  or  dressing  a  Turtle. — P.  T.] 

82.    MULLAGATAWNY-SOUP. 

Br^ak  and  wash  a  knuckle  of  good  veal,  and  put  it 
to  boil  in  nearly  three  quarts  of  water,  with  a  quarter- 
ounce  of  white  and  Jamaica  peppercorns.  Place  wooden 
or  tinned  skewers  in  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  to 
prevent  the  meat  from  sticking  to  it.  Put  also  a  few 
slices  of  Bacon,  if  the  flavour  of  this  meat  is  admired. 
Skim  this  stock  carefully  when  it  comes  to  boil,  and  let 
it  simmer  an  hour  and  a  half  before  straining  it  off.  Cut 
three  pounds  of  breast  of  veal  into  cubes  of  about  an  incli 
and  fourth,  and  add  trimmings,  bones,  and  gristles  of  the 
breast,  to  the  water  in  which  the  knuckle  is  put  to  boil. 
Fry  the  cubes  of  veal  and  six  sliced  onions  in  a  deep 
stew-pan,  of  a  delicate  brown.  Put  the  strained  stock  to 
them ;  skim  carefully,  and  when  the  soup  and  meat  have 
simmered  three  quarters  of  an  hoar,  mix  two  spoonfuls  of 


MOCK-TURTLE  80I7P.  165 

cunrie  powder,  and  the  same  quantity  of  lightly-browned 
flour  or  Glasgow  hrose-mealy  to  a  smooth  batter;  add  these 
to  the  soup,  with  salt,  and  cayenne,  and  lemon-juice,  to 
taste,  and  stew  and  simmer  till  the  meat  is  quite  tender. 
—  Obs.  This  soup  may  be  made,  still  more  expensively, 
of  chickens  cut  in  pieces,  of  rabbits,  or  small  mutton 
cutlets  all  browned ;  but  is  best  when  made  of  well-fed 
veal.  For  East  Indian  palates,  eschalots,  mace,  and 
ginger,  may  be  employed,  and,  more  elegantly,  pickled 
mangoes  and  grated  cocoa-nut :  the  quantity  must  be  left 
to  the  discretion  of  the  cook. — See  Mullagataun^^  as  made 
in  India,  Nos.  757-8-9  ;  also  No.  98. 

N.B.  Curriey  or  Mullagatawny  soup  may  be  varied  in 
fifty  ways.  CalTs  head,  for  example,  prepared  as  for 
Mock  Turtle,  and  treated  as  above,  makes  admirable 
Mullagatawny.  Boiled  rice  is  always  served  with  this 
dish.  A  Vegetable  Mullagatavmy  is  made  tnaigre  with 
butter,  or  gras  with  veal  stock,  by  boiling  and  pulping 
chopped  vegetable-marrow,  cucumbers,  onions,  and  toma* 
toes ;  and  seasoning  with  currie  powder,  and  cayenne. 
The  good  stocks,  nice  bits  of  meat,  and  the  currie  season- 
ings, are  the  essentials. 

82.  MOCK-TURTLE,  OT  Ckilf*8  Head  Soup, 

Scald  the  head  of  a  middle-sized,  well-fed,  cow-calf, 
with  the  skin  on  ;  split  it  and  take  out  the  brains  and 
the  gristles  and  bones  of  the  nose,  blanch  it  well  in  several 
waters,  to  draw  out  the  slime.  Place  it  in  a  stew-pan,  and 
cover  it  with  cold  water ;  bring  it  to  the  boil,  and  skim 
without  intermission  while  any  scum  continues  to  arise. 
When  the  head  has  boiled  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  take  it  out,  and  as  soon  as  cold  enough  to  cut,  carve 
the  skin  and  fat  parts,  laying  aside  the  fleshy,  into  small 
neat  pieces,  in  the  shape  of  diamonds,  dice,  triangles,  &c. 
Peel  the  tongue,  and  cut  it  into  cubes  of  an  inch  square. 
Meanwhile,  put  the  broken  bones  and  trimmings  of  the 
head  into  your  stock-pot,  with  a  large  knuckle  of  veal 
well  broken,  and  three  or  four  pounds  of  a  shin  of  beef 
well  soaked.  Let  this  boil  very  slowly,  having  carefuUy 
skimmed  it,  for  at  least  four  hours,  and  take  care  it  does 
not  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot ;  then  strain  for  future 


166  CHAP.  VI. — ^BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

use,  and  lay  aside  a  quart  of  the  stock  for  gravy.  This 
much  may  he  done  the  evening  hefore  the  soup  is  wanted. 
When  the  soup  is  to  he  finished,  take  off  the  cake  of  fat 
which  will  have  formed  on  the  top,  and  put  the  stock, 
holding  hack  the  sediment,  into  a  large  stew-pan.  If  the 
stock  is  good  it  will  he  a  jelly,  or  nearly  so.  When  it 
is  again  skimmed,  put  to  it  a  dozen  onions  sliced,  and 
hrowned  in  the  frying-pan,  with  a  half-dozen  sprigs  of 
fresh  mild  sage,  also  chopped  and  fried.  Thicken  the 
soup  with  hutter  kneaded  in  browned  flour,  or  with 
brown  rotue  ;  and  season  highly  with  white  and  Jamaica 
pepper,  a  little  cayenne,  two  blades  of  mace,  an  eschalot, 
four  leaves  of  fresh  basil,  and  the  parings  of  one  large  or 
two  small  lemons.  When  the  soup  is  strong  and  well 
coloured,  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  gently  into  a  fresh 
stew-pan,  and  put  the  hash  of  the  head  to  it.  Add  Madeira 
when  it  is  nearly  finished,  in  the  proportion  of  a  half- 
glassful  to  the  quart.*  When  to  be  dished,  slip  in  two 
dozen  of  small  forcemeat  balls,  made  of  veal  or  veal-kidney, 
minced  parsley,  crumbs,  and  the  seasonings  directed  for 
Qtienelles  (See  French  Cookery^  well  fried,  and  drained  ; 
also  a  dozen  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  made  into  egg- 
balls.  No.  86,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons  squeezed  through 
a  strainer. 

06«.  A  small  piece  of  bacon  used  to  be  pat  into  the  stock-pot; 
and  a  fagot  of  sweet  herbs,  and  mushrooms  are  still  occasionally 
added  to  this  soup.  The  imitation  of  the  real  Turtle-soup  was 
formerly  thought  nearer,  when  the  soup  abounded  in  bits  of  the 
fat  double  tripe,  gristly  bits  of  veal,  or  veal  sweetbread  parboiled, 
or  the  belly-piece  of  pickled  pork  cut  in  mouthfuls,  the  soft  part 
of  oysters,  pickled  tongue  parboiled  and  cut  down,  the  meat  of 
lobsters,  &c.  These  cloying  substances  are  now  very  generally 
discarded.  Simplicity  is  the  taste  of  the  day,  though  much  is 
left  to  the  discretion  of  the  cook  in  making  Mock  Turtle,  and  all 
soups  of  the  Com'po%%te  Order,  The  quantity  made  by  the  above 
directions  is  fully  more  than  will  be  wanted  for  an  ordinary 
dinner,  as  it  will  fill  two  tureens;  but  part  of  the  stock  may 
be  laid  aside  for  gravy  or  sauces;  and  if  there  is  too  much 
ha»hf  some  of  it  may  be  highly  seasoned  and  dressed  as  a  rctgout 
or  pie.     Mock  Turtle  may  be  greened,  if  that  is  wished,  by 

*  Madeira  or  Sherry  are  the  wines  commonly  employed ;  but  Bur- 
gundy or  Claret  may  be  used,  "where  more  depth  of  colour  i»  wanted. 


BAKED  MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP.  167 

tstewing  alargehandfal  of  chopped  spinage  or  green  herbs,  in  batter 
and  patting  some  of  the  soup  to  them;  then  rabbing  this  green 
liqaor  through  a  sieye  and  patting  it  to  green  the  soap.  We  do 
not  recommend  it. 

84.  A  CHEAPER  AND  YBRT  EXCELLENT  MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

This  is  made  of  calf *s  feet  or  cow-heels,  gently  stewed, 
the  broth  strained,  and  the  best  of  the  meat  cut  down  as 
aboYe,  and  put  to  it,  with  a  seasoning  of  white  pepper, 
allspice,  onion,  cayenne,  a  little  mushroom  or  walnut 
catsup,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira.  Or 
the  wine  and  expensiye  seasonings  may  be  withheld,  and 
the  soup  be  very  good  without  them. 

85.    BAKED  MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

This  is  good,  easily  prepared,  and  generally  liked.  Put 
a  broken  knuckle  of  veal,  or  the  gristly  ends  of  two 
knuckles,  into  a  deep  earthen  pan,  with  two  cow-heels, 
the  half  of  a  calf's  head  broken,  four  onions,  a  dozen  of 
peppercorns,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  a  few  sprigs  of 
lemon-thyme,  an  eschalot,  or  any  other  flavouring  sub- 
stance that  is  best  relished  by  those  for  whom  the  soup 
is  prepared.  Fill  up  the  dish  with  water  or  weak  broth  ; 
tie  several  folds  of  paper  over  the  mouth  of  it,  and  set 
it  in  an  oven  for  upwards  of  two  hours.  When  it  is  cold 
take  off  the  fat  from  the  jelly,  cut  the  meat  into  mouthfuls, 
and  stew  it  with  the  clear  jelly  till  perfectly  tender. 
Wine,  spiceries,  catsup,  forcemeat  balls  as  in  the  former 
receipts,  or  whatever  is  approved  of,  may  be  added,  if  a 
soup  of  ?iaitt  ffottt  be  wanted  ;  or  it  may  be  seasoned  with 
only  a  little  mushroom-catsup,  and  served  plain.  The 
French  often  make  their  Mock-Turtle  soup  stock  of  the 
trimmings  of  fish  and  mutton  knuckles,  &c.,  using  meat 
full  of  gelatine.  They  clarify  the  stock,  and  boil  it  so 
much  down  that,  when  cool,  it  will  bear  the  Madeira  on 
its  surface.  They  cook  the  parboiled  head  in  white  sauce,, 
and  then  proceed  as  above  directed,  only  using  more  hard- 
boiled  yolks  of  eggs. 

86.    TO  MAKE  EGO-BALLS  FOR  MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

Pound  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled 
eggs  in  a  mortar,  with  as  much  raw  yolk  and  flour  as  will  ' 
hind  the  composition.    Add  salt,  and  make  up  in  the  form 


J  68  CHAP.  VI. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

of  balls  the  size  of  a  marble.     Put  at  least  two  dozen  to  a 
dish  of  soup. 

87.    SCOTCH  HARE,  RABBIT,  OR  GAME  SOUP, — eXCelUfU. 

Skin  and  clean  the  hare  thoroughly,  saving  the  blood. 
Cut  a  dozen  or  more  of  small  chops  from  the  back,  shoulders, 
and  rump.  Put  what  remains  of  the  hare  and  the  bones  into 
a  pot,  with  four  pounds  of  fresh  shin  or  neck  of  beef,  four 
quarts  of  water,  a  couple  of  turnips,  two  carrots,  six 
middle-sized  onions,  a  half  ounce  of  black  and  Jamaica 
peppercorns,  an  ounce  of  salt,  a  fagot  of  sweet  herbs,  and 
a  large  head  of  celery.  Boil  for  four  hours  and  strain. 
Brown  the  small  chops  nicely  in  a  «ae^^-pan,  and  add  them 
to  the  strained  stock,  and  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half ; 
strain  the  blood ;  rub  it  with  a  half  pint  of  the  soup  as  if 
making  starch,  add  more  hot  soup,  and  put  the  whole  into  the 
soup,  which  must  be  kept  only  at  the  point  of  boiling  for 
ten  minutes,  or  longer  if  you  choose,  lest  the  blood  curdle. 
The  soup  may  be  farther  thickened  with  the  parboiled 
liver,  pounded  in  a  mortar  with  the  pieces  of  hare  boiled 
for  stock ;  with  browned  flour  rolled  in  butter,  or  rice 
flour,  or  arrow-root.  When  enough  done,  skim,  put  in  a 
glass  of  catsup,  and  one  or  more  of  red  wine,  what  more 
salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  is  required,  and  also  essence  of 
celery.  Serve  with  the  hare-steaks  in  the  tureen. — Ohs, 
Red  wine,  in  the  proportion  of  a  quarter-pint  to  a  tureen 
of  soup,  is  reckoned  an  improvement  by  some  gourmands ; 
and  those  of  the  old  school  still  like  a  large  spoonful  of 
currant-jelly  dissolved  in  the  soup.  Hare-Soup  may  be 
made  by  cutting  down  the  ingredients  and  placing  them 
in  an  earthen  jar,  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  for  four 
hours,  and  then  managing  as  above.  Cold  roast  hare,  not 
overdone,  cut  to  pieces  and  stewed  for  an  hour  in  good  and 
highly-seasoned  broth,  will  make  an  excellent,  but  not  the 
highest  flavoured  Hare-Soup.  (See  Civet  ofHare^  No.  617.) 
You  may  lay  aside  as  much  of  the  fleshy  part  of  a  good 
hare  ^s  will  make  a  handsome  dish  of  hare-cakes,  or 
minced  coUops,  garnished  with  sippets,  or  as  -mW  make 
forcemeat  balls  for  the  soup. — Cold  roast  hare,  pame^  or 
vealy  will  all  of  them,  if  cut  down,  and  slowly  stewed  for 
an  hour  in  broth,  or  in  a  gravy  drawn  from  their  bones,  o» 


MODERN  OR  ENGLISH  HARE -SOUP.  169 

even  in  boiling  water,  thickened  with  brown  flour  kneaded 
in  butter,  and  rather  highly-seasoned  with  onions,  pepper, 
and  cayenne,  make  a  very  palatable  SteuhSoup,  Many 
prefer  this  mode  of  re-dressing  cold  meat  to  either  hashing 
or  fricasweing.  The  burnt  outside,  skins,  and  every  thing 
unfit  for  the  tureen,  should  first  be  trimmed  away  ;  or,  if 
these  are  boiled  to  make  the  gravy  or  stock,  it  must  be 
strained  before  the  hashed  meat  to  be  served  is  added  to  it. 

88.    MODERN  OR  ENGLISH  HARE-SOUP. 

In  England  the  blood  is  not  generally  used  :  cut  down 
the  hare  into  nice  pieces,  and  stew  them  with  a  pound  of 
good  lean  of  ham,  four  onions,  stuck  with  four  cloves,  four 
blades  of  mace,  a  bay-leaf  or  two,  a  fagot  of  parsley,  with 
two  or  three  sprigs  of  basil,  thyme,  marjoram,  and  a  head 
of  celery.  Simmer  slowly  in  a  little  strong  stock-broth ; 
and  when  the  juices  are  well  drawn  out,  put  more  stock, 
till  two  quarts  are  in.  Simmer  for  another  hour  at  least, 
and  strain  the  soup.  Take  the  best  of  the  meat  from  the 
bonesy  pound  it,  moistening  with  a  little  of  the  soup. 
Pound  also  some  soaked  crumb  of  bread,  or  rice  flour, 
and  put  this  to  the  soup,  which  must  now  be  seasoned  to 
your  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  catsup,  and  red 
wine ;  or,  keep  the  best  pieces,  if  the  hare  be  large,  to 
serve  in  the  tureen,  cut  into  mouthfuls,  and  pound  and  pulp 
the  others,  which  added,  will  make  the  soup  have  quite 
enough  of  consistence ;  more  celery  may  be  added,  or  a 
seasoning  of  the  seed  bruised,  and  tied  in  a  muslin  bag. 
The  best  pieces  to  serve  are  fillets  cut  off  along  the 
backbone,  which  need  not  be  boiled  quite  so  long  as  the 
other  parts,  if  to  be  thus  served. 

89.    PlGEON-SOUP,  OR  GAHB-SOUP. 

Make  a  clear  gravy-stock  of  four  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
or  scrag  and  shanks  of  mutton,  two  turnips,  celery,  two 
onions,  and  four  quarts  of  water  boiled  down  to  three. 
Put  to  this  stock  the  gizzards,  crops,  and  livers  of  four 
or  ^ye  pigeons  or  partridges,  or  a  pheasant.  The  birds 
must  be  neatly  trussed  as  for  boiling,  seasoned  inside  with 
ground  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  flattened  on  the  breast. 
We  prefer  them  divided,  using  the  trimmings  for  stock. 
Dredge  them  with  flour,  and  brown  them  nicely  in  a 


<i 


170         CHAP.  VI. — ^buoths,  soups,  and  gravies. 

frying-pan.  Thicken  the  stock  with  batter  kneaded  in 
browned  flour ;  strain  and  season  it  with  white  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  mace,  and  let  the  pigeons  stew  in  it  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Throw 
a  few  toasted  sippets  into  the  tureen  before  dishing  the 
soup.  Either  of  the  above  receipts  apply  to  joints  of 
rabbits,  which  make  a  good  soup,  with  suitable  seasonings. 

90.    SUPERLATIVE  GAME-SOUP,  OR  VBNISON-SOUP. 

This  soup  is  made  of  all  sorts  of  black  or  red  game,  or 
of  venison  or  wild  rabbits.  Skin  the  birds,  carve  and  trim 
them  neatly,  and  fry  the  pieces  along  with  a  few  small 
slices  of  ham,  sliced  onions,  carrots,  and  turnips,  a  little 
of  each.  Strain,  and  stew  this  meat  gently  for  ap  hour 
in  good  fresh  veal  or  beef  stock-broth,  with  a  head  of 
celery  cut  in  nice  bits,  a  little  minced  parsley,  and  what 
seasonings  you  like. — ^Very  small  steaks  of  venison  may  be 
fried,  as  the  birds,  and  stewed  in  the  broth ;  and  if  the 
stock  is  made  of  any  venison  trimmings,  it  will  be  an 
advantage  both  in  flavour  and  strength. — Obs,  Jamaica 
pepper  and  cloves  are  suitable  seasonings ;  celery,  from 
Its  nutty  flavour,  is  a  proper  vegetable  for  hare  and  game- 
soups.  Take  out  the  ham  before  dishing.  CarSme  likes 
turkey  and  turkey-giblets  better  for  game-soup,  than 
either  pheasants  or  partridges.  The  pot-liquor  of  boiled 
turkey  is  too  often  wasted  in  English  kitchens. 

91.  ox-HEAD-soup,  called  Hessian  Soup  and  Ragout.* 
Clean,  rub  with  salt,  and  afterwards  soak  in  salt  and 
lukewarm  water  for  four  hours,  the  half  of  a  fat  bullock's 
head  and  the  root  of  a  tongue,  or  a  cow-heel.  Wash  them 
w^ell  and  break  and  put  them  into  a  large  pot  with  seven 
quarts  of  water  and  a  spoonful  of  salt.  Skim  very  care- 
fully, and  retard  the  boiling  by  throwing  in  a  quart  of 
cold  water,  which  will  throw  up  more  scum.  When  the 
meat  is  tender,  but  not  overdone,^  take  it  out  and  strain 
the  broth.     When  cold  take  oflF  the  cake  of  fat,t  and  the 

♦  This  is  the  preparation  on  which  Young  Mrs.  Roberts  was 
wrecked  at  the  first  of  her  famous  "  Thrbb  Christmas  Dinnbrs."— 
See  Edinburah  Tcdes. 

+  This  will  keep  for  frying,  make  a  cheap  soup,  or  Scotch  kail-brose 
or  brewi9. 


OX-HEAD-SOUP— CALF  S-HEAIHSOUP.  171 

oil  below  it,  and  put  to  the  soup  a  pound  of  peas.  When 
it  has  boiled  an  hour,  add  six  carrots,  four  turnips,  half  a 
dozen  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  celery-seed  tied  up  in  muslin.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  or  cayenne,  and  boil  till  the  vegetables  are  tender. 
This  makes  a  very  excellent  broth,  nutritious  and  pala- 
table, and  the  meat  may  either  be  served  in  it  or  as  a 
ragout.  But  a  little  more  trouble  fits  this  dish  to  appear 
at  any  family-dinner,  and  entitles  it,  made  thus,  to  the 
appellation  of  Hessian  Soup  and  Ragout: — When  the 
peas  and  vegetables  put  in  the  soup,  as  above  described, 
are  soft  enough  to  pulp,  strain  it,  and  rub  them  through  a 
sieve  to  the  soup,  which  will  now  be  nearly  of  the  consis- 
tence of  thin  pease-soup.  If  not  thickened  enough,  add 
rice-flour  well  mixed,  and  heat  the  soup,  adding  white 
pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste,  and  a  head  of  celery  sliced. 
The  ragout  or  hash  is  made  by  cutting  into  mouthfuls  the 
best  parts  of  the  head  and  root  of  the  tongue,  or  cow-heel, 
seasoning  highly  with  mixed  spices,  a  little  walnut-catsup, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard,  with  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  the  clear  stock  of  the  head,  saved  for  this  purpose  when 
the  soup  is  strained. — Ohs.  Soy,  forcemeat-balls,  wine,  &c., 
are  all  ordered  for  this  ragout  in  some  approved  books  of 
cookery ;  but  we  consider  such  expensive  ingredients  quite 
out  of  place  in  a  preparation  which  is  cheap,  good,  and 
savoury,  but  never  can  be  elegant.  The  meat  of  the  head 
and  root  of  tongue  that  remain  may  either  be  eaten  as  a 
plain  stew,  added  to  the  soup,  or  else  potted^  in  the  Scotch 
fashion,  and  used  either  cold  or  heated,  as  a  stew-soup. 

92.  calf's-head-soup. 

Rub  the  half  of  a  large  head  with  salt,  soak  it  for  some 
hours,  and,  when  thoroughly  clean,  put  it  on  with  as  much 
fresh  water  or  fresh  pot-liquor  as  will  cover  it,  and  with 
an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  some  parsley.  When  well 
skimmed  and  boiled  for  an  hour,  take  out  the  head  and 
strain  the  soup.  Cut  the  head  into  nice  mouthfuls,  about 
two  inches  long  and  one  thick,  and  dress  it  as  a  ragout,  or 
put  it  to  stew  in  the  soup.  Season  with  white  pepper, 
mace,  and  herbs.      Currie-powder  and  other  fit  seasonings 


1 72  CHAP.  VI. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

make  this  very  good  Mullagatawny. — See  Dressed  Golfs 
Head,  Nos.  83  and  84. 

9i3.    A  PEPPER  POT.* 

This  is  now  understood  to  be  a  sort  of  dear  larder,  or 
wash-day's  family  dinner-dish,  composed  of  all  sorts  of 
shreds  and  patches.  It  ought  properly,  if  fine  cookery  is 
sought,  to  be  an  OliOy  composed  of  a  due  admixture  of 
meat,  fish,  fowl,  vegetables,  and  roots.  To  three  quarts  of 
water  put  a  couple  of  pounds,  cut,  of  whatever  vegetables 
are  plentiful  (a  good  proportion  being  onions,)  and  a  couple 
of  pounds  of  mutton-scrag  cut  into  three  or  four  pieces ;  or 
a  fowl,  or  a  piece  of  veal,  or  lean  bacon,  and  a  little  rice. 
Skim  it ;  and,  when  nearly  finished,  add  the  meat  of  a 
lobster  or  crab,  cut  in  bits,  or  the  soft  part  of  a  few  oysters, 
or  hard-boiled  yolk  of  eggs.  Take  off  all  the  fat  that 
rises,  and  season  highly  with  pepper  and  cayenne.  Serve 
in  a  deep  dish. 

94.  KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL  SOUP,  an  excellent  Scotch  Soup. 

Take  a  large  knuckle,  or  if  small  add  a  piece  of  the 
scrag.  Wash  it,  and  break  the  bones ;  place  skewers  in 
the  stew-pan  to  keep  the  meat  from  sticking ;  cover  it  and 
no  more  with  water ;  put  in  a  head  of  celery,  a  sprig  of 
lemon-thyme,  three  onions,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  bunch  of 
parsley,  and  a  dozen  white  and  Jamaica  peppercorns ; 
simmer  till  the  knuckle  is  tender.  Strain  the  soup.  Cut 
the  gristly  parts  of  the  knuckle  and  all  that  is  good  into 
mouthfuls,  and  put  to  it  a  seasoning  of  white  pepper,  and 
mace  in  powder,  and  rice-flour  to  thicken,  if  it  is  wished. — 
Ohs.  This  soup  may  be  made  with  rice  or  vermicelli ;  or  the 
stewed  uncut  knuckle  may  be  served  in  the  soup  or  sepa- 
rately; for  many  like  to  pick  the  gristles,  a  "pleasing 
toil,"  instead  of  having  the  meat  cut  for  them  by  the  cook. 
Some  gourmands  admire  veal  stew-soup  made  of  the  Irish 
Staggering-Bob, — that  is,  an  infant  calf,  whose  bones  are 
still  gristle,  and  his  flesh  a  jelly.  The  breast,  knuckle, 
and  shoulder-blade,  are  best  for  this  purpose,  and  the  soup 

.    *  "  Where  every  thing  that  every  soldier  got. 
Fowl,  hacon,  cabbage,  mutton  and  what  not, 
y^M  thrown  into  one  Bank,  and  went  to  pot.*^ 


OIBLETy  OX-RUUP,  AND  POACHERS  SOUP.  ] 73 

is  seasoned  with  mace,  and,  when  finished,  thickened  with 
a  liaison  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs. 

95.    OIBLET-SOUP.  * 

Take  from  two  to  three  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  or  of 
shanks  and  scrag  of  mutton,  or  knuckle  of  veal,  or  a  part 
of  each,  as  may  be  found  most  convenient ;  a  small  fagot 
of  sweet  herbs,  carrots,  turnips,  and  a  little  parsley ;  a 
quarter  ounce  of  black  or  Jamaica  peppercorns,  and  three 
quarts  of  water.  When  tliis  has  simmered  for  an  hour, 
put  to  it  two  pair  of  goose  giblets,  or  four  pair  of  duck- 
giblets — but  turkey  if  you  can — scalded  and  cleaned,  and 
previously  browned  in  the  frying-pan,  if  you  choose,  with 
minced  onion.  When  the  giblets  are  stewed  delicately 
tender,  but  not  soft  and  insipid,  take  them  up,  and  cut 
them  neatly  into  mouthfuls.  The  soup  must  now  be 
thickened  with  butter  kneaded  in  a  large  spoonful  of  flour 
or  with  rouXy  or  with  the  top-fat  gradually  mixed  with 
flour,  and  strained  into  a  fresh  stew-pan,  into  which  put 
the  giblets.  Boil,  skim,  and  season  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  mushroom  catsup,  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Serve 
with  the  cut  giblets  in  the  tureen.  Beans,  lettuce,  and 
celery,  separately  boiled,  may  be  added  at  pleasure  ;  and 
we  especially  approve  of  celery. 

96.    OX-TAIL  AND  KIDNEY  SOUP. 

Two  tails,  or,  if  small,  three,  will  make  a  large  tureen 
of  soup.  Let  the  butcher  divide  them  at  the  joints.  Rub 
them  with  salt,  and  soak  them  well  in  lukewarm  water. 
Place  the  tails  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  pound  of  ham,  four 
onions  or  more,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  celery,  two  dozen  of 
Jamaica  and  black  peppercorns  (or  a  half- ounce,  if  high 
peppering  is  wanted,)  a  turnip  and  a  carrot  or  two  sliced, 

*  This  wu  one  of  those  pretending  dishes  of  which  Mistress  Doon 
emphaticallj  said,  **  Boil  stanes  in  butter,  and  the  broo  will  be  gude.'^ 
When  pliunly  made,  as  directed  in  the  above  receipt,  it  affords  an  agree- 
able variety  for  a  family-dinner,  and  is  an  economical  way  of  usin^  what 
might  otherwise  be  inisted.  Wine  is  ordered  for  giblet-soup  in  the 
most  approved  cookery  books  ;  and  we  have  no  wish  to  restrain  the 
fancies  of  a  gourmand,  however  extravagant ;  but  Mistress  Dods 
strongly  protested  against    bestowing  Madeira  on   goose-horns  and 

f unions.  French  cooks  dress  giblets  as  a  haricot,  wrapping  them  in 
ayers  of  bacon,  in  which  they  are  stewed.  When  done  and  drained, 
the  bacon  is  of  course  laid  aside,  and  the  sauce  is  skimmed,  thickened, 
and  poured  over  the  giblets. 


174  CHAP.  n. — BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  dRAVIE^. 

and  three  quarts  of  water.  When  the  meat  is  tender, 
which  will  take  thi*ee  hours,  lift  it  out,  and  cut 
it  into  small  mouthful^.  Thicken  the  soup  with  a 
little  browned  flour,  rubbed  up  with  a  ladleful  of  the  top- 
fat  ;  strain  it  into  a  fresh  stew-pan,  put  in  the  cut  meat, 
boil  up,  and  skim;  and  finish  with  a  spoonful  of 
mushroom  catsup,  and  pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste. — Ohs, 
Ox-tails  make  a  very  excellent  onion-soup,  by  adding  to 
it,  when  strained,  a  dozen  fried  onions  pulped,  and  thick- 
ening it  with  rice-flour.  The  tails  cut  to  bits  may  be  put 
to  boil  at  once.  Some  cooks  add  red  wine ;  then  less 
catsup  is  needed. — See  No.  400. 

KiDNEr  SOUP  :  prepare  Scotch  kidney  collops  as  directed, 
using  two  ox-kidneys.  When  cooked  for  two  hours,  add 
sufficient  stock  to  make  the  stew  and  soup,  adding 
cayenne  and  catsup  to  taste,  and  thicken  with  browned 
flour  rolled  in  butter. — See  No.  398. 

97.  poacher's  soup, 
Or  Soup  a  la  Meg  MerrilieSy— admirable. 

This  savoury  and  highly-relishing  sylvan  stew-soup 
may  be  made  of  any  or  every  thing  known  by  the  name . 
of  game,  if  fresh.  Take  from  two  to  four  pounds  of  the 
trimmings  or  coarse  parts  of  venison,  shin  of  beef,  or 
knuckles  or  lean  scrag  of  good  mutton  —  all  fresh.  If 
game  is  plentiful,  use  no  meat.  Break  the  bones,  and 
boil  this  in  ^ve  pints  of  water,  with  celery,  a  couple  of 
carrots  and  turnips,  four  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and 
a  quarter-ounce  of  peppercorns,  the  larger  proportion 
Jamaica  pepper.  Strain  this  stock  when  it  has  simmered 
for  three  hours.  Have  ready  cut  down  a  black-cock,  or 
wood- cock,  a  pheasant,  half  a  hare,  or  a  rabbit,  a  brace  of 
partridges  or  grouse,  or  one  of  each  (whichever  is  obtained 
most  easily — a  mixture  is  best,)  and  season  the  pieces  with 
mixed  spices.  These  may  be  floured  and  browned  in  the 
frying-pan ;  but  as  this  is  a  process  dictated  by  the  eye 
as  much  as  the  palate,  it  is  not  necessary  in  making  this 
soup.  Put  the  cut  game  to  the  strained  stock,  with  a 
dozen  of  small  onions,  a  couple  of  heads  of  celery  sliced, 
half  a  dozen  peeled  potatoes,  or  an  ounce  of  rice-flour, 
and,  when  it  boils,  a  small  white  cabbage  quartered;  black. 


iaC£-S0T7P  AND  BARLEY- BROTH.  175 

pepper,  allspice,  and  salt,  to  taste.  Let  the  soup  simmer 
till  the  game  is  tender,  hut  not  overdone;  and  lest  it 
should,  the  vegetahles  may  he  put  in  half  an  hour  hefore 
the  meat. — Obs.  This  soup  may  he  coloured  and  flavoured 
with  red  wine  and  two  spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  and 
enriched  with  forcemeat  halls ;  hut  we  think  it  hest  plain. 
Forcemeat  halls  are  getting  out  of  favour :  they  are  con- 
sidered indigestihle,  not  without  reason.*  Soups  in  which 
catsup  is  mixed  should  not  he  fully  salted  till  the  catsup 
is  added,  as  it  contains  so  much  salt,  itself. + 

*  The  Club  were  at  variance  on  the  above  original  receipt.  Jbkyll 
declared  for  the  simple  racy  flavour  of  the  rude  sylvan  cneer  ;  WlN- 
TBRBLOSSOM  liked  the  addition  of  forcemeat-balls  and  catsup  ;  and 
the  Doctor  — hoverinf  between  the  tureens,  like  Macheath  between 
his  rival  charmers  —  utid  his  ears  deeply  in  both,  but  when  compelled 
to  decide,  from  habitual  reverence  to  soups  as  they  are^  voted  for 
the  plain  soupf  as  originally  swallowed  with  so  much  unction  by 
Dominie  Sampson. 

■f*  Stbw-soups,  when  not  made  cloyingly  rich  nor  over-seasoned,  as 
they  alvrays  are  by  those  whose  trade  it  is  to  compound  cordials  to 
stimulate  and  pamper  palled  appetites  and  indurated  palates,  are,  for 
common  and  general  purposes,  the  most  easy,  economical,  wholesome, 
and  nutritious  form  in  which  food  can  be  prepared.  This  is  that  com- 
bination of  fluids  and  solids,  animal  and  vegetable  substances,  with 
condiments,  which  forms  a  mixture  well  fittea  to  the  human  stomach, 
and  calculated  to  promote  health  and  impart  strength.  The  prejudice 
which  exists  in  England  against  soups  as  not  promotive  of  strength, 
ought  to  give  way  before  stew- soups.  It  has  been  gravely  con- 
tended of  late,  that  human  life  cannot  be  supported  on  soups,  however 
rich,  without  solid  animal  food  ;  and  experiments  are  quoted  where  a 
dog  kept  on  the  richest  soup  died,  while  another  which  was  fed  on 
meat  boiled  to  chips,  and  water,  retained  health  and  strength.  To 
these  experiments  mav  be  opposed  the  living  example  of  the  peasantry 
of  Ireland  and  Scotland,  and  other  countries  who  hardly  ever  see 
animal  food  in  any  form,  and  yet  enjoy  health  and  strength.  "  The 
greatest  heroes  of  antiquity,"  says  Sir  John  Sinclaui,  **  lived  on 
broth.**  The  liquor  in  which  their  mutton  or  venison  was  boiled, 
thickened  with  a  little  oatmeal,  and  seasoned  perhaps  with  a  few  wild 
herbs,  formed  the  morning  tea  and  coffee  in  the  hall  of  the  Highland 
Chief,  b^ore  the  introduction  of  these  commodities.  It  is  impossible 
to  say  on  what  men  will  not  live,  —  ay,  and  enjoy  health  too  ;  —  shell- 
fish, Iceland  moss,  mushrooms,  snails,  and  an  endless  variety  of  sub- 
stances, have  been  known  to  sustain  life  and  health,  —  not  to  mention 
fricassees  of  old  shoes  and  leather  breeches,  to  which  shipwrecked 
mariners  have  often  had  recourse.  Our  readers  cannot  have  forgotten 
Sir  Bbvis  of  Hampdoun  in  his  dungeon,  of  whom — 

**  Rats,  and  mice,  and  such  small  deer. 
Was  the  food  for  fiiU  seven  year." 

This  to  be  sure  is  solid  animal  food,  and  favours  the  theory  of  the 


176  CHAP.  VI. — BBOTHSy  SOXTPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

98.  A  CHEAP  RICE  AND  MEAT  OR  CURR1B-80UP. 

Boil  from  three  to  four  pounds  of  a  good  ox-cheek,  very 
well  soaked  and  cleaned,  in  three  quarts  of  water,  witli 
four  onions,  and  a  small  fagot  of  pot-herbs.  Strain  it ; 
cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  and  stew  it  with  six  ounces 
of  blanched  rice,  adding  pepper  and  salt.  This  cheap 
stew-soup  may  be  seasoned  with  eurrie-powder  and  mace ; 
or  made  after  a  finer  fashion  with  fowls,  knuckle  of  vea), 
or  two  cow-heels. — See  No.  82. 

99.    SCOTCH  BAKLEY-BROTH,  WITH  BOILED  MUTTON  OR  BEEF, 

€ts  Bouilli  Ordinaire, 
To  from  three  to  six  pounds  of  beef  or  mutton,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  soup  wanted,  put  cold  water  in  the 
proportion  of  a  quart  to  the  pound,  —  a  quarter-pound  of 
Scotch  barley,  or  more  or  less  as  may  suit  the  meat  and 
the  water,  and  a  spoonful  of  salt,  unless  the  meat  is 
already  slightly  salted.  To  this  put  a  breakfast-cupful  of 
soaked  white  or  split  peas,  unless  in  the  season  when  fresh 
green  peas  are  to  be  had  cheap,  a  larger  quantity  of 
which  must  be  put  in  with  the  other  vegetables,  using 
less  barley.  Skim  very  carefully  as  long  as  any  scum 
rises  ;  then  draw  aside  the  pot,  and  let  the  broth  simmer 
slowly  for  an  hour,  at  which  time  put  to  it  two  young 
carrots  and  turnips  cut  in  dice,  and  two  or  three  onions 
sliced.  Ten  minutes  before  the  broth  is  ready,  add  a 
little  parsley,  picked  and  chopped,— or  the  white  part  of 

modern  experimenters  ;  but  again,  we  have  Dr.  Franklin^s  old 
Catholic  lady,  who  lived  solely  on  water-gruel,  and  yet  enjoyed  health. 
There  has  lately  started  up  in  England,  we  are  told,  a  newfangled  re- 
ligious sect,  who,  from  an  absurd  reading  of  the  commandment  '*  Thou 
smilt  not  kill,^*  renounce  the  use  of  animal  food,  and  enjoy  high  health 
on  their  vegetable  regimen.  It  is  indeed  great  presumption  to  limit 
the  powers  of  the  himian  stomach,  in  assimilating  and  tummg  to  health- 
ful chyle  whatever  is,  in  discretion  a^d  without  violent  and  sudden 
change,  submitted  to  its  action.  Of  this  important  organ,  **  the  master 
of  the  family,"  it  holds  as  strongly  as  of  the  palate,  that  ^*  What  is  one 
man^s  meat  is  another  man*s  poison :  " 

Chaque  paw,  cTu^que  coutttme. 
The  Tartar  feeds  on  horse-flesh,  the  Chinese  on  dog^s,  the  Green- 
lander  on  fish  garbage,  with  the  luxurious  sauce  of  train-oil.  The 
Frenchman  and  German  feast  on  frogs  and  snails,  and  the  ancients 
valued  asafostida  as  much  as  the  modems  do  eurrie-powder,  or  Burgesses 
fish-sauce. — P.  T. 


BARLEY-BBOTH.  177 

three  leeks  may  be  used  instead  of  onions,  and  a  head  of 
celery  sliced,  instead  of  the  parsley  seasoning ;  celery  re- 
quires longer  boiling.  For  beef-broth  a  small  quantity  of 
greens  roughly  shred,  and  the  best  part  of  four  or  five 
leeks  cut  in  inch  lengths,  are  better  suited  than  turnip, 
carrot,  and  parsley,  which  are  more  adapted  to  mutton. 
If  there  is  danger  of  the  meat  being  overdone  before  the 
broth  is  properly  litked,  i.  e,  thickened,  it  may  be  taken 
up,  covered  for  a  half  hour,  and  returned  into  the  pot  to 
heat  through  before  it  is  dished.  Garnish  the  hcuilli  with 
carrot  and  turnip  boiled  in  the  broth,  and  divided ;  or 
pour  over  it  caper-sauce,  parsley  and  butter,  or  a  sauce 
made  of  pickled  cucumbers,  or  nasturtiums  heated  in 
melted  butter,  or  in  a  little  clear  broth,  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  made  mustard  and  another  of  vinegar.  Parsley,  par- 
boiled for  two  minutes  and  minced,  may  also  be  strewed 
over  bouilH,  —  or  a  sprinkling  of  boiled  carrots  cut  in 
small  dice. 

Ob8,  This  is  the  comfortable  Pot  aufnu  of  Scotland,  which  still 
furnishes  the  Manse  and  the  Farmhouse  dinner,  and  the  ^'  pot- 
luck"  of  homely  and  hearty  old-world  hospitality.  The  pieces  of 
fresh  beef  best  adapted  for  barley-broth  are  the  shin,  the  brisket, 
the  flank,  and  the  veiny  piece,  —  of  mutton,  the  neck,  the  ribs, 
and  the  leg.  In  some  parts  of  the  ^  Land  of  Kail,"  broth  made  of 
fresh  beef  would  scarcely  be  tolerated, — the  meat  not  at  all;  and 
nnquestionably  the  brisket  or  flank,  when  salted  for  a  week, 
makes  excellent  broth,  while  the  meat  eats  much  better.  Many, 
however,  prefer  fresh  meat.  An  economical  way  of  managing 
where  beef  is  salted  for  winter  provision,  is  to  boil  a  piece  of 
fresh  and  a  piece  of  salt  meat  together,  by  which  method  the 
broth  is  not  grouty  nor  yet  over-salt,  which  it  will  be  if  made 
wholly  of  salt  meat.  In  some  parts  of  rural  England,  lean  fresh 
beef  and  salt  pork  are  still  boiled  and  eaten  together.  The  im- 
proved management  of  stock  {^oattls^  not  broth,)  will  soon  super- 
sede this  necessity.  Turkey  beans,  stripped  of  their  blackening 
outer  husk,  are  admirably  adapted  for  lithing  barley-broth.*    If 

*  Mistress  Dods,  with  her  usual  sagacity,  stated  with  ffreat  plausi- 
bility of  reasoning,  that  one  capital  defect  of  barley-broth  cooked  by 
"  Englisliers  ^*  and  other  unqualified  persona,  is  produced  nine  times  out  of 
ten  by  the  bad  quality  of  the  pot-barley  often  used  in  England.  Nor 
does  pearl-barley  give  the  same  consistence  as  />o^-barley.  Rice^  with 
mutton,  or  veal,  or  fowl  broth,  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  barley. 
Were  it  equally  cheap  it  would  be  better  liked  than  the  principal.  Both 
are  best  when  quite  fresh. 

M 


178  CHAP.  VI. BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

you  would  avoid  the  glary,  ropy  decoctions  which  are  sometimes 
seen  on  tables  where  better  things  might  be  looked  for,  the  quality 
of  the  barley  or  rice  used  in  cookery  ought   to  be   carefully 
attended  to.    When  exposed  to  air  and  damp,  barley  and  flour 
become  musty  much  sooner  than  is  generally  thought.    English 
books  of  cookery  order  a  sauce  for  meat  boiled  in  Scotch  broth, 
of  red  wine,  mushroom  catsup,  and  gravy  with  cut  pickles  —  a 
piece  of  absurd  extravagance  completely  at  variance  with  the 
character  and  properties  of  the  better  part  of  the  dish, — namely, 
with  the  bland,  balsamic  barley-broth  of  Scotland.     But  if  a  fine 
name  is  admired,  use  the  French  sauce  hackee.      For  cheap  and 
excellent  soups  and  broths,  see  National  JDuhtt,  and  Cheap 
Cookery. — The  above  barley-broth  will  make  an  excellent  rice- 
broth,  by  substituting  rice  for  barley,  and  omitting  the  peas, 
though  we  think  ptdse  an  excellent  ingredient  in  all  plain  family 
soup.      German  barley-broth  is  made   exactly  as  above,  using 
a  piece  of  the  flank  of  beef. — See  Sheep^s  Head  Broth,  Scotch 
Hotek'Potchy  Cock-a-Letkie,  and  Nos.  725,  726-27-28,  and  748. 


FISH  SOUPS.    . 

This  delicate  and  refined  description  of  soups  has  gained 
on  the  favour  of  the  gormandizing  world  very  rapidly. 
Cray-iish  soup  was  the  favourite  bonne  botiche  of  the  soup- 
eaters  of  past  generations.  Oyster  and  lobster  soups  are 
more  admired  in  our  day. .  A  clear  gravy  of  cow-heels 
makes  an  admirable  basis  'for  fish-soups,  and  is  employed 
by  those  who  make  them  for  sale  in  great  towns. 

100.    THE  BASIS  OF  FISH-SOUPS. 

The  Stock,  as  it  is  technically  called,  may  either  be 
made  of  fish  or  meat.  The  former  is  the  more  elegant, 
and  is  besides  suited  to  maigre  days  ;  the  latter  is 
more  rich  and  nourishing.  Beef,  veal,  or  the  lean  of 
mutton,  may  all  be  used  for  fish-stock.  When  made  of 
fish,  a  skate,  a  cod's  skull,  haddocks,  whitings,  eels, 
gudgeons,  flounders,  and  other  white  fish  are  used,  and 
also  the  heads,  fins,  and  trimmings  of  the  fish  which  are 
to  be  dressed.  As  fish-stock  soon  becomes  sour,  it  should 
not  be  made  sooner  than  needful.  Boil  the  fish  of  which 
you  make  the  stock  in  two  quarts  of  water,  with  a  couple 
of  onions,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel,  and  a  fagot  of  sweet 
herbs.     Skim  the  liquor  carefully,  and  strain  it.     If  the 


BASIS  OF  FISH-SOUFS ^LOBSTSR-SOUP.  l79 

fish-soup  is  to  be  brown,  the  fish  which  makes  the  stock 
may  be  browned  in  the  frying-pan  before  boiling,  and 
c:atsup  and  brown  roux  is  generally  put  to  brown  fish- 
soap. — See  Court  Bouillany  French  Cookery, 

]01.    LCMBSTER-SOUP. 

Hats  three  middle-sized,  or  five  small  fresh  lobsters — 
hen-kheterSy  if  possible  —  ready  boiled,  and  five  pints  of 
good  veal-grayy,  though  beef  or  mutton  stock  will  answer 
very  well.  Break  ofi^,  and  bruise  in  a  mortar,  the  small 
claws  and  fins,  with  an  anchovy,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel, 
and  a  couple  of  onions.  Put  these  to  the  stock,  and 
simmer  till  you  have  obtained  all  the  strength  and  flavour 
they  contain.  Strain  ofiP  the  stock.  Split  the  tails,  crack 
wiiiiout  mangling  the  great  claws,  and  carefully  take  out 
the  meat,  cutting  it  into  neat  pieces,  and  lay  it  aside. 
Pick  the  meat  from  the  chine,  and  take  part  of  the  coral, 
the  soft  part  of  a  few  oysters,  an  anchovy,  the  quarter  of 
a  nutmeg,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little  cayenne,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon- peel  grated.  Beat  these  in  a  mortar  ; 
and  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  very  little  flour, 
make  of  this  two  dozen  small  forcemeat-balls  for  the 
soup.  Next  bruise  the  spawn  in  the  mortar,  with  a  little 
flour,  and  rubbing  it  through  a  sieve,  put  it  and  the  balls, 
with  the  cut  meat  of  the  claws  and  tails,  and  the  coral 
left  from  the  forcemeat,  into  the  soup.  Or  fry  the  force- 
meat-balls first,  if  you  like,  or  brown  them  in  a  Dutch 
oven,  and  slip  them  into  the  soup,  which  may  simmer  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  but  must  not  boil.  Test  the  balls 
(See  testing  of  forcemeat,  Godiveau,  French  Cookery ,)  or 
they  may  be  omitted,  and  the  meat  of  which  they  are  made 
cut  in  nice  bits^  and  put  to  the  soup.  Foreign  substances  are 
sometimes  employed  to  heighten  the  vermilion  tint  of  this 
soup ;  but  we  do  not  recommend  the  practice.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  through  a  strainer  into  the  tureen, 
and  serve  the  soup,  lifting  it  carefully.  Some  cooks  put 
a  glass  of  Madeira  into  it.  —  Obs,  This  soup  is  sometimes 
partly  made  of  sweet  cream,  or  milk  thickened  wiUi  rice- 
flour,  and  butter  instead  of  stocJb  ;  b|it  the  mixture  of  milk 
with  fish  or  meat  is  less  relished  every  day.  The  meat  of 
whitings  or  small  haddocks  is  sometimes  substituted  for 


i80  CHAP.  VI. BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

half  the  lohster,  where  this  fish  is  expensive.  The  soup  is 
often  used  thickened  with  rice-flour  only.  Wine  is  a  good 
deal  employed  hy  the  French  in  the  composition  of  fish- 
soups  ;  the  rough  and  dry  wines  suit  some  tastes  hetter 
than  cream.  In  like  manner  cider,  mild  ale,  or  beer,  is 
sometimes  employed  in  this  country  in  making  fish-soup. 

Another  Lobster- soup. — Make  a  good  stock  of  a  piece  of 
beef,  a  slice  of  ham,  and  some  butter,  a  large  Portugal 
onion  sliced,  pepper,  and  any  fish  and  lobster  tiimmings 
you  have.  Strain  the  stock,  pulping  the  onions  ;  pound  the 
spawn  and  body  of  the  lobster  as  above,  and  stir  it  into  the 
soup.  Mix  it  smoothly  with  the  stock.  Season  with  cayenne 
and  white  pepper, — a  glass  of  sherry,  if  you  like  ;  boil  up 
and  skim,  and  add  the  cut  bits  of  the  tail  and  claws  as 
directed  above.     Boil  five  minutes. 

102.    OYSTER-SOUP. 

Have  two  quarts  of  a  strong  clear  stock,  whether  of 
fish  or  meat :  we  prefer  it  of  veal.     Add  to  it  the  hard- 
boiled  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  the  hard  part  and  beards  of 
a  quart  of  fresh  juicy  oysters,  previously  well  pounded  in 
a  mortar.     Simmer  for  a  half  hour,  and  strain  it  into  a 
fresh  stew-pan,  in  which  have  the  quart  of  oysters — or  what 
will  allow  a  dozen,  if  small  or  divided,  to  each  half-pint — 
cleared  of  the  beards,  and  very  nicely  washed  from  shells 
and  sand.     Season  with  mace  and  cayenne,  and  let  the 
oysters  simmer  for  eight  minutes,  when  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beat  may  be  stirred  into  a  little  of  the  cool  soup, 
and  gradually  mixed  with  the  whole  quantity,  drawing 
aside  the  stew-pan,  and  constantly  stirring,  lest  the  eggs 
curdle.     When  smooth  and  thick,  serve  in  a  tureen,  and 
still  keep  stirring  the  soup  to  prevent  curdling.      Any 
other  flavour  that  is  relished  may  be  given  to  this  luscious 
soup.     We  like  lemon  :  mustard  and  vinegar  are  used, 
and   tarragon   or   garlic,    for   those    who   relish    foreign 
cookery. 

103.    WHITE  OYSTER-SOUP. 

Have  for  a  full  tureen  of  soup,  a  Scotch  hundred  (one 
hundred  and  twenty^ or  an  English  hundi-ed  and  quarter 
of  moderate -sized,  plump,  native  oysters.  Oysters  for  soup 
should  be  bearded  in  shelling ;  but  if  not,  scald  them  in 


OYSTER^  CRAY-FISH^  AND  EEL-SOUPS.  181 

their  own  liquor,  and  take  away  the  nta  and  beards  :  pick 
them  out  of  the  liquor  and  keep  them  warm.  Let  it  settle 
for  a  half  hour,  and  strain  it  over  the  oysters.  Boil  the 
mtt  or  hard  part  and  beards,  in  a  pint  of  strong  veal-soup, 
for  twenty  minutes ;  let  this  settle  and  strain  it  to  three 
pints  more  of  veal  stock,  seasoning  it  with  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  cayenne,  and  meanwhile  have  the  oysters  simmered 
for  five  minutes  in  their  own  liquor,  and  ready  to  slip  into 
the  tureen,  into  which  a  half-pint  of  rich  boiling  cream  is 
to  be  stirred.  This  soup  may  be  thickened  witli  beat  yolks 
of  eggs  or  arrow-root,  enriched  with  butter,  or  made 
maipre  by  using  fish-stock  and  butter ;  or  the  oysters  may 
be  run  on  fine  skewers  and  fried,  instead  of  being  simmered 
in  their  own  liquor.  If  large,  the  oysters  for  soup  must 
be  divided. 

Plain  Oyster-soup,  mature, — Have  good  Court  Bouillon 
(No.  679,)  or  make  some  of  four  pints  of  water,  four 
onions  fried  in  butter,  mace,  and  other  seasonings.  Put 
to  this  when  skimmed  a  half  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  a 
hundred  picked  oysters  ;  also  a  few  mushrooms.  Thicken 
with  rice-flour  and  simmer  slowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

104.   CRAY-FISH-SOUP. 

Make  two  quarts  of  fish-stock,  in  which  boil  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  two  onions,  and  two  dozen  of  black  and 
Jamaica  pepper-corns.  For  this,  from  two  to  three  pounds 
of  fish  fins,  heads,  &c.,  all  fresh,  will  be  needed.  Boil  to 
a  mash,  and  strain  the  liquor  till  clear.  Pick  from  four 
to  five  dozen  of  cray-fish,  and  stew  them  in  the  soup  till 
delicately  done :  add  a  little  cayenne,  and  the  spawn  of 
a  boiled  lobster,  pounded  and  stirred  into  the  soup,  which 
it  will  both  thicken  and  enrich.  —  Ohs,  Cray-fish  soup  is 
seldom  seen  in  this  country ;  but  good  shell-fish  soups  are 
made  of  muscles,  cockles,  and  prawns.  These  all  require  a 
good  stock,  (whether  grcts  or  maigre,)  plenty  of  pepper,  and 
careful  washing  and  picking. — As  much  of  the  flavour  of 
delicate  shell-fish  is  lost  in  washing  them  free  of  sand,  the 
washings  may  be  allowed  to  settle,  strained  repeatedly, 
and  put  to  the  stock  ;  but  where  shell-fish  are  in  plenty 
this  is  idle. 


182  CUA.P.  TI. — ^BROTHS,  SOUPS,  AND  ORAnES. 

105.    FORCEMEAT  FOR  FISH-SOUPS,  OR  FOR  STEWS  OF  FISH. 

Beat  the  flesh  and  soft  parts  of  a  boiled  lobster  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  boned  anchovy,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
hard  boiled,  and  a  head  of  boiled  celery  chopped.  Put 
to  this  a  handful  of  bread-crumbs,  cayenne,  mace,  a 
spoonful  of  mushroom-catsup,  a  quarter-pound  of  melted 
butter,  a  large  spoonful  of  oyster-liquor,  or  some  oyster- 
pickle,  and  two  or  more  eggs  well  beaten,  to  cement  the 
composition.  Mix  well,  and  form  it  into  small  egg-shaped 
balls,  which  fry,  or  brown  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Or  the  fish 
that  makes  the  stock  may  be  pounded  for  forcemeat. — See 
Fish  Forcemeat ;  French  Cookery  of  Fish  ;  Chap,  Fish;  and 
also  Crappit  Heads, 

106.  eel-soup. 

Take  two  pounds  of  cleaned  and  cut  eels,  two  quarts  of 
water,  a  crust  of  bread,  two  blades  of  mace,  two  onions,  a 
few  corns  of  white  pepper,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs : 
boil  the  fish  till  half  the  liquor  is  wasted,  then  strain  it, 
and  serve  it  up  with  toasted  bread.  This  may  make 
both  a  ragout  and  a  soup.  Jt  may  be  made  stronger  by 
boiling  it  longer,  or  using  broth  instead  of  water.  —  See 
Scotch  Fish  and  Sauce,  National  Disfies  ;  also  Fish  Turtle, 


107.  MILK-SOUP,  a  nice  Nursery  Dish, 
Boil  two  quarts  of  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  little  sugar  ;  lay  thin  slices  of  toasted 
bread  in  a  dish ;  pour  over  a  little  of  the  milk  to  soak 
them,  and  keep  them  hot  npon  a  stove ;  taking  care  the 
milk  does  not  burn.  When  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve, 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  add  them  to  the  milk. 
Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens  ;  then  take  it  off  lest 
it  should  curdle,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish  upon  the  bread. 
— Ohs,  This  makes  the  Pottage  de  Lait  of  French  cook- 
ery, by  the  addition  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet 
almonds  (with  a  few  bitter  ones)  blanched,  pounded,  sifted, 
and  stirred  into  the  boiling  soup.  It  may  be  thickened 
with  rice.  Semolina,  VermicelU,  Nouille,  or  Cagliari  paste, 
or  cocoa-nut,  and  is  good  and  nseful  in  every  mode  :  we 
like  lemon-peel  flavour  in  it,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon. 


pig's  pettitoes'  soup SPRING-TRUIT  SOUP.  183 

108.  pig's  pettitoes'  soup. 

This  cheap  and  useful  soup  has  obtained  the  imposing 
name  of  Lord  Mayor's  Soup,  and,  like  ox-tail  and  other 
soups  which  should  be  economical,  is  made  expensive  and 
less  wholesome  by  useless  additions.  It  is  thus  made  in 
localities  where  pigs  are  reared  for  slaughter  and  expor- 
tation, and  where  the  offal  is  very  cheap :  to  every  two 
set  of  feet  and  ears  thoroughly  cleaned,  put  five  quarts  of 
water,  a  couple  of  onions,  and  a  fagot  of  savoury  herbs : 
skim  well,  and  simmer  for  four  hours ;  then  lift  out  the 
ears  ;  simmer  the  feet  for  another  hour,  or  till  quite  tender^ 
strain  off  the  soup,  and  let  it  settle  for  a  night,  till  the 
cake  of  fat  sets,  and  the  sediment  falls  :  cut  the  meat  of 
the  feet  and  ears  into  dice :  boil  up  the  soup  cleared  of 
tiie  fat  and  sediment :  season  it  highly  with  salt,  cayenne, 
a  table-spoonful  of  minced  savoury  herbs,  and  white  pep- 
per :  thicken  with  flour,  or  arrow-root  rubbed  up  in  butter. 
Meanwhile  have  the  cut  meat  ready  in  a  small  saucepan, 
and,  first  gradually  heating  it  in  some  of  the  strained  soup, 
put  it  to  the  thickened  soup,  and  simmer  the  whole  for  a 
few  minutes  before  serving.  By  putting  Madeira,  Harvey's 
sauce,  or  turtle  sauce  and  forcemeat  balls,  to  this  unctuous 
potage,  is  made  what  is  called  the  Lord  Moyor^s  Soup  ;  a 
vulgar  and  not  very  wholesome  composition :  though  if  made 
plain  as  above,  it  is  economical,  and  savoury,  and  quite 
suitable  to  persons  of  sound,  vigorous  digestion. 

109.  spring-fruit  soups. 

These  are  made  of  gourds,  rhubarb,  cucumbers,  vege- 
table marrow,  &c.  &c.  They  may  either  be  made  with 
cream,  milk,  or  good  clear  gravy  ;  and  seasoned  to  the 
taste  of  the  eater. 

Peel,  clean,  and  blanch  a  bundle  of  Victoria  rhubarb,  cut 
the  stems  in  three-inch  lengths,  and  put  them  to  a  couple 
of  quarts  of  good  veal  or  beef  gravy,  with  two  or  three 
onions,  a  few  thin  slices  of  bread,  crust  and  crumb  together, 
and  salt  and  cayenne.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  and  scum  ; 
simmer  till  tender;  strain  and  serve  on  toasted  sippets. 
This  soup  may  also  be  made  maigre  with  a  half-pound  of 
butter  kneaded  in  a  little  flour.  See  No.  1125.  A  plea- 
sant variety  of  harmless  and  delicate  messes  may  be  made 
of  those  fruits ;  we  subjoin  a  few  approved  recipes :  — 


184  CHAP.  VI. SPRINO-FRUIT  SOUPS. 

Spring  Soupy  of  the  Cheese-gourd, — Cut  the  fleshy  part  of 
a  ripe  gourd  into  small  bits.  Put  these  into  a  pan  with  an 
ounce  of  fresh  butter,  and  melt  over  a  slow  fire  to  the  con<^ 
sistence  of  a  pur^e.  Add  water  in  the  proportion  of  half 
a  gallon  to  four  pounds  of  gourds.  Add  a  little  salt  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Dish  the  soup  over  toasted  bread  cut  into 
dice. — See  No.  73. 

Cheese-gourdy  Spanish  fashion.  —  When  ripe,  slice  the 
fleshy  part  of  the  gourd  an  inch  thick,  score  the  slices  on 
one  side  about  half  through.  Put  some  rasped  fat  of  bacon 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  parsley,  eschalots,  and  chopped 
mushrooms,  pepper,  and  salt ;  give  this  a  fry  ;  and  cover 
the  scored  side  of  the  slices  of  gourd  with  the  mixture,  lay- 
ing them  first  on  the  dish,  which  place  in  a  quick  oven, 
with  a  little  melted  butter  or  olive-oil  poured  over.  When 
baked  sufficiently,  serve  hot. 

Soup  of  Gourds, — Pare  and  slice  the  gourds.  Boil  them 
in  gravy-broth  to  a  mash,  and  strain  this  off.  Put  the 
strained  soup  on  the  fire  in  a  clean  pan.  Season  with  salt 
and  white  pepper,  and,  boiling  for  half  an  hour,  put  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  in  the  tureen,  and  serve 
the  soup  over  it,  stirring  them  well  up  together.  —  N.B. 
The  cheese  must  be  in  quantity  to  suit  the  soup.  The 
above  will  do  for  a  moderate  dish. 

SecondrCourse  Dishes  of  young  Gourds,  —  Take  gourds 
when  no  larger  than  cucumbers,  and  cut  them  in  four 
lengthwise.  Clear  off  any  pulp.  If  tender,  only  blanch 
them,  or  if  hard,  parboil.  Take  two  ounces  of  butter,  and 
brown  it  with  a  table-spoonful  of  flour.  Pour  on  good 
gravy :  stew  the  gourds  in  this  sauce,  and  season  with 
white  pepper  and  salt. 

Young  Gourds  in  White  Sauce, — Proceed  as  above,  but 
do  not  brown  the  butter.  Instead  of  gravy-broth,  take 
three  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  half-pint  of  milk  and 
another  of  cream.  Mix  and  stir  this  over  the  fire  till  like 
custard, — thickening  with  more  yolks  if  necessary.  Dish 
the  gourds  in  this  white  sauce,  and  serve. 


N.B. — For  a  variety  of  other  fashionable  soups,  see 
French  Cookery,  For  good  plain  Soups,  see  National 
Wishes;  and  also  Cookery  for  the  Poor, 


185 


CHAPTER  VII. 


FISH. 


All  fish  from  sea  or  shore. 
Freshet  or  purling  brook,  of  shell  or  fin, 
And  exquisitest  name ;  for  which  waa  drained 
PontUB  and  Lucrine  bay,  and  Afric  coast. 

Milton. 

Read  Section  VI.,  page  48.      Clean  all  fish  thoroughly^ 
but  without  rubbing  too  hard  or  tossing  roughly  about. 
Brush,  when  gutted,  all  blood,  slime,   and  filmy  mem- 
branes most  carefully  from  the  inside.     Cook  fish  tho- 
roughly in  whatever  mode  you  dress  it.      We   do  not 
approve  of  steaming  fish.     Oily  fish,  as  eels,  and  even 
herrings   and    mackerel,   may  be  skinned  :    Eels  must : 
Whitings  and  small  haddocks,  to  be  fried,  are  skinned, 
though  the  practice  is  more  recommended  by  beauty  than 
utility.     Fish   is  usually   boiled  in  salted  water,   t.  e.  a 
slight  brine,  made  with  about  an  ounce  of  salt  to  the  quart 
of  spring  water,  and  a  drachm  of   saltpetre ;  but  some 
good  modem  cooks,  instead  of  this,  salt  the  water  very 
slightly,  and  rub  the  fish  with  salt,  leaving  it  for  from 
five  minutes  to  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  in  proportion  to  its 
size,  to  soak  in  the  salt  previous  to  boiling.     Flat  fish  are 
always  dished  with  the  white  side  uppermost.    The  sofi-roed^ 
or  male  fish,  are,  in  all  species,  reckoned  the  richest ;  so  are 
the  male  lobster  and  crab. — N.B.  Our  French  Cookery 
of  fish  contains  excellent  practical  receipts ;  yet  it  is  our 
belief  that  English  cookery  of  fish  is  superior  to  that  of 
France.     For  this  we  have  elsewhere  given  our  reasons. 
110.  TO  BOIL  SALMON  and  other  Fish, 
This  monarch  of  the  British  rivers  is  in  season  in  some 
part  of  the  three  kingdoms  for  most  of  the  year ;  so  that, 
however  the  price  may  vary,  the  London  market  —  the 
point  which  attracts  all  salmon  speculators  —  is  never  long 
without  a  supply.     The  fishing  of  the  river  Ness,  which 
the  fish  visit  very  early,  is  opened  so  soon  as  the  month 
of  December ;  the  Severn  fishery  even  in  November ;  and 


1B6  CHAP.  VII. — PISH. 

from  that  time  some  fishery  is  opened  every  week,  till  in 
April  the  whole  are  in  operation.     The  salmon  of  the 
Thames  is  that  which  was  most  esteemed  in  London ;  that 
of  the  Tay  is  the  favourite  with  the  inhabitants  of  the 
northern  metropolis, — probably  in  both  cases,  because  the 
fish  from  those  rivers  are  brought  to  the  respective  markets 
in  greater  perfection  than  those  of  the  more  distant  rivers. 
—  Steam  and  commerce  have  nearly  banished  salmon  from 
the  Thames.     We  have  ever  remarked,  that  the  salmon  of 
a  man's  native  stream,  or  of  the  river  of  his  native  province, 
is  to  him  the  best-flavoured.     Among  other  marks  of  de- 
generate times,  is  the  decrease  of  salmon  in  our  rivers ; 
and  it  is  perhaps  the  only  one  that  is  undeniable.     This 
fish  at  one  time  was  so  common  an  article  of  food,  that 
stipulations  were  made  by  Scottish  servants  against  having 
it  above  three  times  a- week  for  their  kitchen;  and  the 
same  conditions  were  observed  in  indenturing  apprentices 
in  Newcastle,  Perth,  and  many  other  towns.     Since  Mr. 
Dempster's  discovery,  the  well-boat  and  packing  salmon 
in  ice,  there  has   been  no  occasion  for  the  enforcement 
of  the  clause  against  salmon-eating.      The  preservation 
of  this  source  of  wealth  and  luxury  is  still  an  object  of 
legislative  investigation ;  and  we  doubt  not,  that  a  sub- 
ject  coming   home   so   immediately  "  to  men's  business 
and  stomachs,"  will  meet  with  all  the  attention  it  merits. 
The  destruction  of  the  fry  is  the  chief  evil.     We  have 
known  instances  in  which  whole  cart-loads  of  whitlings,  or 
salmon-fry,  have  been  used  as  manure.    The  poor  of  Lon- 
don, which  draws  into  its  enormous  maw  all  the  fish  of 
the  kingdom,  still  occasionally  enjoy  this  luxury,  though 
not  in  the  best  state.    Steam  navigation  has  revolutionized 
the  trade  in  salmon.    We  are  now  supplied  not  only  from  the 
Scottish  and  Irish  fisheries,  but  from  Norway.     Grilse  is 
seldom  sent  to  London,  though  in  Paris,  where  cookery,  if 
not  more  rich  than  in  London,  is  thought  more  refined, 
the  trout,  from  its  superior  delicacy,  is  more  prized  than 
the  ripe  salmon.      We  ought   to  inform  our  gourmand 
readers,  that  a  fish,  as  we  have  eat  it,  boiled  in  the  pickling 
kettle,  where  perhaps  some  dozens  of  cut  fish  are  prepar- 
ing for  the  London  market,  is  superbly  done,  —  meltingly 


FISH.  187 

Tich,  and  of  incomparable  flayonr.  Such  a  thing  is  to  be 
procured  only  at  the  fishing^stations,  at  which,  it  is  to  be 
i-emarked.  Assizes  and  Presbyteries  are  always  held. 

There  are  many  excellent  ways  of  dressing  this  favou- 
rite fish,  but  peihaps  none  «qual  to  plain  boiling  when 
well  performed ;  or,  if  on  the  small  scale,  broiling,  as  No. 
112.  Scale  and  clean  the  fish  without  unnecessary  wash- 
ing or  handling,  and  without  cutting  it  too  much  open. 
Have  a  well-scoured  fish-kettle,  and  if  the  salmon  be  very 
large  and  thick,  when  you  have  placed  it  on  the  drainer 
and  in  the  kettle,  fill  up,  and  cover  it  with  cold  spring 
water,  that  it  may  heat  through  gradually.  Throw  in  six 
ounces  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  If  only  a  jole, 
slices,  or  a  quarter  is  boiled,  it  may  be  put  in  with  warm 
water.  In  both  cases  take  off  the  scum  carefully,  and  let 
the  fish  boil  slowly,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  the  pound  ; 
if  the  piece  is  not  heavier  than  ^ve  or  six  pounds,  then 
the  time  must  be  less ;  but  it  is  even  more  difficult  to  fix 
the  time  fish  should  boil  than  the  length  of  time  that  meat 
requires.  Experience,  and  those  symptoms  which  the  eye 
of  a  practised  cook  alone  can  disoein,  must  fix  the  point, 
and  nothing  is  more  disgusting  and  unwholesome  than 
underdone  fish.  Fish  may  be  probed  ;  and  notice  when  the 
eyes  start  and  the  meat  comes  from  the  bone.  The  minute 
the  boiling  of  any  fish  is  completed,  the  fish-strainer  must 
be  lifted  and  rested  across  the  kettle,  to  drain  the  fish> 

*  If  XDeat  is  ready  before  the  company  assemble,  take  it  up  as 
directed  above,  in  boiling  (ish/aud  it  may  be  kept  in  good  season,  ^ave 
all  Uie  dish^cowrs  warm^  inside  at  all  times,  and  the  dishes  well  heated. 
Pat  a  hot  cover  over  the  meat,  and  some  folds  of  flannel  over  that.  If 
you  have  a  Bain  marie,  (which  is  a  most  useful  utensil,)  or  some  sub- 
stitute, you  will  be  at  no  loss,  though  the  above  may  tolerably  well 
supply  its  place. 

The  Ba^n  marie  is  a  flat  copper  vessel  containing  boiling  water ;  you 
put  all  your  stew-pans  into  it,  and  keep  the  water  alw^s  up  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  but  it  must  not  boil.  The  effect  of  this  Bain  marie  is  to 
keep  every  thing  warm,  without  altering  either  the  quantity  or  the 
quality,  particularly  the  quality.  "  When  I  had  the  honour,  (says  M. 
Ude,)  ot  serving  a  nobleman  who  kept  a  very  extensive  hunting  esta- 
blishment, and  the  hour  of  dinner  was  consequently  uncertain,  I  was 
in  the  habit  of  using  the  Bain  marie  as  a  certain  means  of  preserving 
the  flavour  of  all  my  dishes."  Sauces  set  on  a  hot  table  would  soon 
lose  both  flavour  and  proper  consistency.  If  sauce,  broth,  or  soup,  is 
kept  by  the  fireside,  the  soup  reduces  and  becomes  too  strong,  and  the 


188  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

Throw  a  soft  cloth  or  flannel  In  several  folds  over  it.  It 
would  spoil  if  permitted  to  soak  in  the  hot  water.  Dish 
on  a  hot  fish-plate  with  a  napkin  under.  Besides  the 
sauces  and  essences  to  be  used  at  discretion,  which  are 
now  found  on  every  side-board  of  any  pretension,  shrimp, 
anchovy,  and  lobster  sauce,  are  served  with  salmon ;  also 
plain  melted  butter  ;  and  where  the  fish  is  got  fresh,  and 
served  in  what  is  esteemed  by  some  the  greatest  perfection, 
—  crisp,  curdy,  and  creamy,  —  it  is  the  practice  to  send 
up  a  sauce  tureen  of  the  clear  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled. 
Fennel  and  butter  are  still  heard  of  for  salmon,  but  are 
nearly  obsolete.  Sliced  cucumber  is  often  served  with  salmon, 
and  indeed  with  all  boiled  fish.  Mustard  is  considered 
an  improvement  to  salmon  when  over-ripe, — beginning  to 
spoil,  in  short :  salmon  may  then  be  boiled  with  horse-^ 
radish.  Garnish  with  a  fringe  of  curled  green  parsley,  and, 
if  you  like,  slices  of  lemon.  Curled  parsley  in  wreaths  or 
tufts  we  consider  the  handsomest  of  all  fish  garnishes. 
The  carver  must  help  a  slice  of  the  thick  part  with  a 
smaller  one  of  the  thin,  which  is  the  fattest,  and  the  best 
liked  by  those  in  the  secret.  Careme  skins  salmon,  —  a 
bad  practice.  Scotch  cooks  sometimes  leave  the  scales  on, 
which,  when  fresh,  rough,  and  silvery,  have  a  good  effect 
in  contrast  with  the  parsley  garnishing. 

111.    TO  BOIL  SALMON  CRIMP. 

This  makes  a  very  handsome  dish,  and  is  the  way  which 
salmon  is  usually  dressed  in  places  near  the  fisheries, 
where  the  fish  is  obtained  quick  ;  and  also  at  the  most 
fashionable  English  tables.  The  fish  must  be  cleaned  and 
scaled  or  not,  without  much  cutting  up  the  breast.  Cut  off 
the  head,  with  about  two  inches  of  the  neck  ;  and  the  tail- 
fin  with  the  same  quantity  of  fish  along  with  it.  Cut  as 
many  circular  fillets  of  the  salmon  as  you  wish  for,  (ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  fish  and  the  number  of  the  com- 
pany,) of  about  three  or  four  inches  thick  ;  —  the  opening 

sauce  thickens  as  well  as  reduces.  It  is  best  managed  where  there  is  a 
steam  range  or  hot  plate,  hut  may  do  by  the  fire. 

This  is  the  hest  manner  of  re- warming  turtle-soup :  as  the  thick  part 
is  always  at  the  hottom  of  the  stew-pan,  this  method  prevents  it  from 
huming,  and  keeps  it  always  ffood.  The  Maria  Balnea^  for  the  reasons 
given  above,  does  well  for  melting  glaze,  or  heating  up  sauces. 


TO  BOIL  SALMON  CRIMP ^TO  GRILL  FRESH  SALMON  STEAKS.  189 

of  these  slices,  whence  the  entrails  have  been  taken,  must 
be  thoroughly  cleaned.  Thi*ow  the  whole  into  cold  water 
made  brackish  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  as  above  directed. 
Place  the  head  and  tail  on  the  strainer,  and  put  tliem  in  a 
fish-kettle  of  boiling  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt  and 
some  vinegar — ^though  vinegar  hurts  the  colour.  Let  this 
boil  five  minutes  ;  lift  the  strainer,  and  lay  on  the  slices  ; 
take  off  whatever  scum  arises.  Boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty- 
five  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness.  Place  the  head 
and  tail  on  end  on  a  napkin,  in  the  middle  of  the  fish-plate, 
and  dish  the  slices  neatly  round  them,  or,  at  choice,  dish,  by 
laying  the  fish  in  its  natural  shape  as  French  cooks  do. 
Sauce  and  Garnishing  as  in  the  last  receipt.  This  is  boilecl 
salmon  in  its  utmost  perfection. 

1 1 2.    TO  ORILL  FRESH  SALMON  STEAKS  OR  CUTLETS. 

This  mode  of  dressing,  though  unsuitable  for  a  large 
dinner,  is  the  way  in  which  the  solitary  epicure  best 
relishes  tliis  luxury.  Split  the  salmon  and  take  out  the 
bone,*  without  mangling  the  fish.  Cut  fillets  of  from 
two  to  three  inches  in  breadth.  Dry  these  in  the 
folds  of  a  ^cloth,  but  do  not  beat  or  press  them.  Have  a 
clear  fire,  and  a  bright-barred  gridiron,  rubbed  with  chalk 
to  prevent  the  fish  from  sticking  ;  the  slices  if  not  dry  may 
be  dusted  with  fiour  ;  turn  with  steak-tongs.  Place  the 
gridiron  aslant  to  let  the  oil  pass  away,  which,  if  it  blaze, 
spoils  the  steaks.  This,  like  all  brails,  must  be  served  very 
hot.  The  slices  may  be  covered  with  the  folds  of  a  hot 
napkin. — Anchaojf  or  Shrimp  sauce, — Obs.  A  small  fish  is  cut 
in  circular  slices  of  about  an  inch  in  thickness.  French  cooks 
first  marinade^  i.  e.  steep  the  salmon  cutlets  in  oil,  season- 
ings, and  shred  fine  herbs ;  baste  them  gently  while  on  the 
giidiron  with  the  marinade-liquor  ;  take  off  the  skin  before 
serving,  and  serve  with  dressed  cucumber  or  caper-sauce. 
This  is  good  practice, — all  save  taking  off  the  skin.  To 
Fry  Salmon,  —  Cut,  fry,  and  serve  fillets  or  slices  as 
above. — See  118. 

*  A  salmon-bone  with  some  rough  pickings  lefl  makes  an  admirable 
Girll.  The  bone  cut  out  of  a  kippered  salmon  should  be  left  rouffh  for 
this  purpose.  Seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  broiled  and  buUered,  it  is 
quite  an  epicure^s  breakfiEUst  morsel.  A  kipper  originally  meant  a  black 
tish.  These  were  salted.  Now  the  very  finest  salmon  are  thus  managed, 
an^  called  kippers, — See  No.  115. 


190  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

113.    TO  BAKE  SALMON  OR  SALMON  TROUT. 

Place  the  fish  in  a  deep  pan,  and  stick  plenty  of  bits  of 
butter  over  it,  first  seasoning  it  with  allspice,  mace,  and 
salt :  rub  a  little  of  the  seasonings  on  the  inside.  It  must 
be  basted  occasionally  with  what  collects  in  the  baking- 
pan.  If  the  fish  is  small,  or  a  grilse,  it  may  be  skewered, 
with  the  tail  turned  round  to  the  mouth.  A  baked  salmon, 
if  not  too  oily,  makes  a  handsome  dish,  and  eats  well 
cold.  Garnishing  and  satuie  the  same  as  for  boiled  salmon. 
— Obs»  Many  persons  think  salmon  not  only  lighter  but 
of  finer  flavour  cold  than  hot.  It  is,  at  any  rate,  too  ex- 
pensive and  too  good  to  be  lost.  Place  what  is  left  in  a 
deep  dish.  To  a  quart  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  was 
boiled  put  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  allspice  in 
corns,  half  a  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt.  Boil  this  with  a  bay-leaf  or  two,  and  a  sprig  of 
lemon-thyme.  When  cold,  pour  it  over  the  salmon,  which 
must  be  kept  covered.  This  pickle  will  keep  the  fish  good 
for  some  days ;  but  if  it  be  necessary  to  keep  it  longer, 
boil  up  the  pickle  afresh,  adding  more  vinegar  and  spice, 
and  when  cold  pour  it  again  on  the  fish  ;*  or  use  No.  114. 

114.    BALLTSHANNON  PICKLE  FOR  COLD  SALMON. 

Vinegar  two  parts,  water  one,  white  wine  one.  Boil 
in  thi^  salt,  pepper,  allspice,  also  mace,  cloves,  ginger,  and 
horseradish  sliced,  at  pleasure  ;  when  cold  pour  this  over 
the  boiled  cold  salmon. 

115.    TO  KIPPER,  «.  e,  TO  SALT  AND  DRY  SALMON. 

The  fish  must  be  cut  up  at  the  back,  cleaned,  and 
scaled,  but  not  washed,  and  have  the  bone  cut  neatly  out. 
Rub  with  equal  proportions  of  salt  and  fine  raw  sugar, 
with  a  particle  of  saltpetre.  Peppers  in  powder  may  be 
added  to  the  salt.  Let  the  fish  lie  for  two  days,  pressing 
it  with  a  board  on  which  weights  are  placed ;  then  hang 
it  up,  or,  which  is  much  better,  smoke  it.     Lest  the  folds 

*  N.B.  Very  fresh  salmon  is  in  most  places  so  expensive  an  article 
of  luxury,  that  rarity  alone  has  given  it  a  factitious  value  with  m^aj 
persons  ;  for  the  fish  is  in  reality  much  more  delicate  and  sapid  when 
ripened  for  a  day  or  even  more.  The  same  thing  holds  of  turbot  and 
cod,  though  they  too  are  prized  for  that  crimp  harsh  fk-eshness,  which 
is  in  truth  no  recommendation  in  the  eating,  and  often  a  drain  on  the 
purse. — P.  T.    We  decidedly  question  this. — W.  W. 


TO  POT  SALMON — TO  COLLAR  SALMON.         J  91 

gather  mnstiness,  it  is  a  good  plan,  when  the  fish  is  hung, 
to  stretch  it  open  with  pieces  of  stick,  that  it  may  dry 
equally.  This  forms  a  favourite  addition  to  a  Scottish 
breakfast,  and  nothing  can  be  more  relishing  than  fresh 
kipper,  though  it  soon  hardens,  when  the  French  mode  of 

1^  grilling  salmon.  No.  112,  may  be  used  with  advantage. 

\  Kipper  is  generally  dressed  by  cutting  it  into  thin  slices  and 

broiling,  though  we  have  seen  it  fried.  If  long  hung  the 
slices  may  be  soaked  in  water  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  which 
will  soften  and  improve  the  quality  of  the  fish.  If  the 
fresh  fish  is  very  large  and  rich  it  may  be  rubbed  with 
salt,  and  drained  for  a  day  before  it  get  the  final  salting. 
English  cooks  sometimes  serve  poached  eggs  over  dried 
salmon.     Salmon  Roe, — See  Note  to  No.  1189. 

116.    TO  POT  SALMON. 

Sfltt,  scale,  and  clean,  by  wiping,  for  water  must  not 
touch  it ;  mb  with  salt,  and  in  an  hour  drain  off  the 
moisture,  and  season  the  salmon  with  pounded  mace, 
cloves,  and  black  and  Jamaica  pepper.  Cut  it  into  neat 
pieces ;  lay  them  in  a  pan,  and  cover  them  with  melted 
butter.  Bake  them,  drain  from  the  fat,  and  put  the  pieces 
into  potting- cans,  which  must  then  be  covered  with  cooled 
clarified  butter.    We  think  vinegar  an  improvement. 

^  117.   TO  COLLAR  SALMON. 

Split,  scale,  and  bone  as  much  of  the  fish  as  will  make 
a  handsome  collar  of  about  six  inches  diameter.  Season 
it  highly  with  pounded  mace,  cloves,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
having  rolled  it  firmly  up  and  bandaged  it,  bake  it  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  with  vinegar  and  butter :  or  simmer  in 
vinegar  and  water.  Serve  with  melted  butter  and  anchovy- 
sauce.  The  liquor  in  which  the  collar  was  boiled  or 
baked  may  be  boiled  up  with  salt,  vinegar,  and  two  bay- 
leaves,  and  poured  over  the  collared  fish  to  preserve  it. — 
See  Ohs.  No.  lid. 

118.    SALMON  cutlets. 

French  cooks  dress  slices  an  inch  and  half  thick  of  fresh 
salmon  as  cutlets  en  papillotey  seasoning  them  with  mixed 
spices,  dipping  in  salad-oil,  and  broiling. — See  112. 
119.  BAKED  SALMON-TROUT, — a  handsome  dish, 

A  TROUT  of  from  two  to  four  pounds  will  make  this 


192  CHA.P.  VII. FISH. 

dish.  Having  cleaned  and  scaled  it  without  cutting  it 
much  up,  stuff  with  fish-forcemeat,  (See  Forcemeats^  and 
fix  the  tail  in  the  mouth ;  or  tie  the  fish  up  in  curve  lines,  as  if 
swimming, — a  common  way  in  boiling  a  long  fish  in  a  small 
kettle.  Pour  over  it  a  marinade  made  thus :  —  Boil  in 
vinegar  and  a  good  piece  of  butter,  chopped  carrots,  onions, 
eschalots,  with  peppercorns,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  a  bay-leaf,  basil,  cloves,  and  allspice  in  grains. 
Baste  with  this  frequently ;  when  baked,  drain  off  the 
liquor,  and  keep  the  fish  hot  while  you  boil  it  down  ; 
thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  with 
a  little  essence  of  anchovies,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  the 
squeeze  of  a  lemon.  Serve  the  trout  with  this  sauce 
strained  over  it. — See  113. 

120.    TO  BOIL  TURBOT.* 

A  FISH  of  the  middle  size  is  the  best.  Choose  the  tur- 
bot  thick  in  the  belly,  which  should  be  of  a  cream-coloured 
\yhLte,  and  springy  under  the  slightest  pressure  of  the 
finger.  When  to  be  boiled,  soak  the  fish  in  salt  and  water, 
to  draw  off  the  slime  incidental  to  all  flat  fish.  When 
thoroughly  clean,  score  the  skin  along  the  backbone  deeply, 
to  prevent  the  belly  from  cracking  when  the  fish  begins  to 
swell  in  heating ;  and  this  done,  place  it  on  a  fish-strainer 
with  the  back  undermost.  If  very  large,  clever  cooks  cut 
out  the  bone  to  some  extent.  The  turbot-kettle  must  be 
roomy  and  nicely  clean,  as  the  colour  of  fish  is  even  more 
easily  injured  than  that  of  meat.  The  fish  may  be  rubbed 
with  lemon  to  whiten  it.f     Cover  it  with  cold  water,  into 

*  This  pontifical  fish  is  found  of  excellent  quality  in  many  parts  of 
the  British  seas,  and  also  on  the  Irish  coast ;  but  what  are  still  esteemed 
the  best,  are,  like  the  best  cod,  caught  off  the  Dutch  coa!<t,  and  brought 
alive  to  London  in  well-boats.  This  fish  is  in  season,  like  the  haddock, 
from  the  time  it  has  had  a  "  leap  in  the  May  flood  "^  till  Michaelmas. 
The  halibut,  which  often  in  Scotland  usurps  the  name  of  turbot,  is  in 
reality  a  handsomer-looking  fish,  and  excellent  of  its  kind,  but  not 
equal  in  richness,  and  far  inferior  in  flavour  to  the  genuine  Bannock 
Fluke  of  Mr.  Jonathan  Oldbuck.  Miss  Kdgeworth  relates  an  anec* 
dote  of  a  Bishop — and  we  doubt  not  that  he  came  to  be  an  Archbishop 
— ^who,  descending  to  his  kitchen  to  superintend  the  dressing  of  a  turbot, 
and  finding  that  his  cook  had  stupidly  cut  away  the  fins,  set  about 
sewing  them  on  ^ain  with  his  own  Episcopal  fingers.  This  dignitary 
knew  the  value  of  turbot. 

f  French  cooks  sometimes  boil  turbot  in  milk  and  water. 


TO  BOIL  TURBOT.  193 

which  throw  salt,  six  ounces  to  the  gallon.  Do  not  let 
the  fish-kettle  come  too  fast  to  boil ;  skim  very  carefully ; 
and  this  done,  draw  aside  the  kettle,  and  allow  it  to 
simmer  for  from  twenty-fife  to  thirty  minutes,  without 
that  violent  degree  of  ebullition  which  would  crack  the 
skin  and  spoil  the  look  of  the  fish.  Many  cooks,  to  have 
the  colour  fine,  and  to  prevent  the  skin  from  cracking, 
wrap  a  cloth  round  it,  which  is  fastened  under  the  strainer. 
For  sauces^  anchovy,  lobster,  or  shrimp  sauce,  or  any  of 
the  fish-sauces  stirred  into  plain  melted  butter,  may  be 
served  in  one  tureen,  and  melted  butter  in  another ;  but 
lobster-sauce  is  the  favourite  turbot-sauce.  Garnish  with 
a  fringe  of  curled  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  or  horseradish 
nicely  scraped;  and  nasturtium  flowers  look  pretty  in- 
termixed, though  we  are  not  fond  of  over-garnishing. 
Cover  the  cracks,  if  unfortunately  there  should  be  any, 
with  the  garnish  and  a  little  lobster  coral.  The  ornaments 
may  be  interspersed  with  fried  sprats,  or  very  small 
flounders  fried.  Small  turbot  makes  a  very  delicate  dish, 
cut  in  slices  and  fried,  drained  from  the  frying  fat,  and, 
without  breaking,  simmered  for  five  minutes  in  a  sauce 
made  of  thin  melted  butter,  a  few  pickled  oysters  chopped, 
or  a  boned  anchovy,  a  tea-spoonful  of  walnut-pickle,  and 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  mushroom-catsup.  Take  up  the 
fish  with  a  slice,  lay  it  neatly  in  the  dish,  and,  having 
skimmed  the  sauce,  pour  it  hot  over  the  fish.  A  glass 
of  claret  is  a  desirable  addition  to  this  sauce.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon.  —  Ohs,  Cold  fish  of  any  kind 
may  be  cut  in  neat  pieces,  and  heated  up  in  a  white 
sauce  ;  or  soused^  by  placing  it  handsomely  on  the  dish  in 
slices,  and  pouring  over  it  any  of  the  flavoured  vinegars 
you  choose,  or  pepper  and  plain  vinegar.  If  any  lobster- 
sauce  is  left,  it  will  be  found  most  useful  in  dressing  cold 
turbot  afresh.  The  French  make  many  entries  de  desserte 
of  this  fish,  by  cutting  what  remains  into  fillets  or  dice, 
stewing  these  in  a  white  sauce,  d  la  creme,  or  serving  in  vol- 
aur^enty  or  in  a  dish  with  an  ornamented  border  made  of  fried 
bread  cut  into  dip-monds. — See  Nos.  688,  691.  For  turbot, 
Careme  serves  no  sauce  save  two  tureens  of  melted  butter. 


194  CHAP.  VII. FISH. 

121.    AN  EXCELLENT  WAY  TO  DRESS  A   SMALL  DISH  OF  TURBOT 

OR  BRILL. 

When  the  fish  is  cleaned,  take  off  the  skin  gently, 
(many  like  the  skin,)  and  «cut  the  fillets  off  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Dip  the  fillets  in  heat  eggs,  then  in  crumhs, 
minced  parsley,  and  other  seasonings.  Dip  twice.  Place 
the  fillets  in  a  deep  dish  stuck  round  with  hutter,  and 
hake  them  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  hasting 
from  time  to  time  with  the  hutter.  Have  ready  lohster  sauce 
made  of  thin  veal-hroth,  with  cayenne,  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Let 
the  lohster  meat  stew  in  this  for  ten  minutes  hefore  thick- 
ening it  with  roux.  Dish  the  haked  fillets  in  a  hot  disli, 
and  pour  the  sauce  hot  over  them.  Garnish  with  slices 
of  lemon  and  curled  parsley.  —  Ohs.  Where  the  party  is 
not  large,  this  is  a  very  excellent  way  of  dressing  this 
expensive  fish.  It  may  also  he  stuffed  and  haked  whole. 
Fillets  of  the  tail  will  make  a  good  dish,  and  allow  plenty 
of  an  ordinary-sized  fish  for  boiling  on  another  or  a  pre- 
vious day.  Many  persons  admire  the  above  modes  more 
than  boiled  turbot. 

*  121.  SOLES  in  different  ways. 

This  fish  is  a  general  favourite  in  England,  and  when 
good,  not  inferior  to  turbot,  if  not,  indeed,  more  delicate. 
It  may  be  boiled  plain  as  small  turbot,  putting  it  in  warm 
water,  made  into  a  brine,  as  above  directed,  and  sim- 
mered gently  for  six  or  eight  minutes,  according  to  size. 
Serve  with  the  turbot  sauces,  and  cucumber  as  for  salmon. 
— Baked  Soles  :  two  fish,  white  side  upmost,  are,  when 
thoroughly  cleaned,  put  into  a  baking  pan,  with  two  ounces 
of  melted  butter :  stick  two  ounces  more  over  the  fish, 
having  first  brushed  them  with  white  of  egg,  and  strewed 
a  thick  layer  of  fine  crumbs  and  minced  parsley  over  them  : 
bake  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  pour  the  gravy  from  them  : 
if  too  rich,  lay  part  of  it  aside,  and  put  a  glass  of  sherry 
and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice  with  cayenne  and  white  pepper 
to  the  remainder,  which  boil  up,  skim,  and  pour  gently 
under  the  nicely  baked  soles  when  dished.  We  consider 
the  above  modes  better  than  filleting ;  but  soles  are  also 
dressed  in  fillets.  In  some  parts  of  England  they  are  pro- 
vincially  stewed  in  cream,  being  first  parboiled  in  water.  j 


cod's  HBAD  AMD  SHOULDERS.  195 

If  Ash  are  to  be  boiled  in  any  liquid  except  water  au  bleiiy 
or  fish  bouillon,  let  it  be  in  some  light  sub-acid  wine,  or  good 
sharp  cider :  cream,  save  for  the  sauce,  is  all  but  Hottentot- 
ish  in  the  preparation  of  fish.     See  Fish  rechauffee^  No.  1 69. 

122.  TO  DRESS  ▲  cod's  HEAD  AND  SHOULDERS,* 

Scotch  Fctshion* 
This  was  a  great  affair  in  its  day.  It  is  still  a  formid- 
able, nay,  even  a  respectable-looking  dish,  with  a  kind  of 
bulky  magnificence,  which,  at  Christmas-tide,  appears 
imposing  at  the  head  of  a  long  board.  Have  a  quart  of 
good  stock  ready  for  the  sauce,  made  of  beef  or  veal,  sea- 
soned with  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip.  Rub  the  fish,  (a 
deep-sea  or  rock-cod,)  with  salt  over  night,  taking  off  the 
scales,  but  do  not  wash  it.  When  to  be  dressed  wash  it 
clean,  then  quickly  dash  hot  water  over  the  upper  side, 
and  with  a  blunt  knife  remove  the  slime  which  will  ooze 
out,  taking  great  care  not  to  break  the  skin.  Do  the 
same  to  the  other  side  of  the  fish ;  then  place  it  on  the 
drainer,  wipe  it  clean,  and  plunge  it  into  a  fish-kettle  of 
boiling  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt  and  a  half- pint  of 
vinegar.  It  must  be  entirely  covered,  and  will  take  from 
thirty  to  forty  minutes'  slow  boiling.  Set  it  to  drain, 
slide  it  carefully  on  a  deep  dish,  and  glaze  with  beat 
eggs,  over  which  strew  fine  bread-crumbs,  t  grated 
lemon-peel,  pepper,  and  salt.  Stick  numerous  bits  of 
butter  over  the  fish,  and  place  it  before  a  clear  fire,  strew- 
ing more  crumbs,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  minced  parsley 
over  it,  and  basting  with  the  butter.  In  the  mean  while 
thicken  the  stock  with  butter  kneaded  in  fiour,  and  strain 

*  Cod  is  in  high  perfection  about  Christmas.  It  comes  into  season 
about  Michaelmas,  when  the  other  laree  fish  are  going  out.  The 
Dogger-bank  cod  are  the  most  esteemea  in  the  London  market;  hut 
very  excellent  fish  are  now  sent  from  Orkney,  and  man^  other  parts. 
Cod  of  »)od  quality  are  salted  in  the  Hebrides,  and  a  little  has  been 
done  inlreland ;  but  the  ^eat  supply  of  salted  fish  still  comes  from  New- 
foundland. The  best  cod  are  such  as,  with  good  size  and  shape,  have 
yellow  spots  upon  a  pure  skin.  Many  persons  justly  prefer  both  salt 
and  fresh  Lif^  to  Cod  ;  Tusk  is  much  superior  to  either  of  them,  but 
is  found  in  small  quantities. 

i<  Many  cooks  at  this  sta^e  skin  cod  and  haddocks.  All  true  gour- 
mands detest^yet^  fish.  Where  not  nicely  crumbed  and  broumedy  they 
are  absolutely  horrific  and  spectral.  -|P.  T. 


196  CHAK  VII. — FISH. 

it,  adding  to  it  half  a  hundred  oysters  nicely  picked  and 
bearded,^  and  a  glassful  of  their  liquor,  two  glasses  of 
Madeira  or  sherry,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  hard  meat  of 
a  boiled  lobster  cut  down,  and  the  soft  part  pounded. 
Simmer  this  sauce  for  five  minutes,  and  skim  it  well ; 
wipe  clean  the  edges  of  the  dish  in  which  the  fish  is  crisp- 
ing, and  pour  the  half  of  the  sauce  around  it,  serving  the 
rest  in  a  tureen.  Garnish  with  fried  oysters,  small  fried 
flounders,  pickled  samphire,  or  slices  of  lemon.  Cod^shead 
is  also  dressed  with  a  broum  saitcey  made  of  the  stock,  or 
with  butter  nicely  browned,  and  a  little  mushroom-catsup. 
ThiB  sauce  is  generally  made  more  piquant  than  the  white, 
by  the  addition  of  two  boned  anchovies. — Obs.  This 
Scotch  mode  of  dressing  cod  is  nearly  the  same  as  the 
French  CaMllaud  a  la  Sainte  Menehouldy  only  the  cod  is 
then  stuffed  with  a  forcemeat  either  of  meat  or  fish.  Cod 
may  be  parboiled  and  finished  in  the  oven  with  the  above 
sauce.  Oysters,  Muscles,  or  Cockles,  may  supply  the  place  of 
Zobster.-^See  184. 

123.    BOILED  COD,  OR  HADDOCK  WITH  SHRIMP-SAUCE. 

Cut  o£f  the  tail  of  cod,  which  would  be  useless  before  the 
other  part  is  enough  done.  But  if  a  large  dish  is  wanted, 
place  the  tail-cut  in  the  belly.  Rub  well  with  salt  inside, 
without  washing ;  let  it  lie  from  one  to  two  days,  and  wash 
and  boil  slowly  in  plenty  of  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt. 
Drain  the  fish,  serve  it  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  the 
boiled  roe  and  liver,  or  small  flounders  or  whitings,  nicely 
fried,— or  only  parsley.  Serve  shrimp  sauce.  The  tail-cut 
may  lie  in  salt  for  a  few  days,  and  be  boiled  and  served 
with  egg-sauce,  or  parsnips  mashed  with  butter  and  cream, 
or  it  may  be  broiled  fresh,  or  fried  in  fillets  or  slices,  and 
served  with  oyster  or  shrimp  sauce  ;  or,  grandly,  with  a 
sauce  made  of  half  a  pint  of  veal-gravy,  a  glass  of  red 
wine,  a  boned  anchovy  chopped,  white  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  few  pickled  oysters,  and  thickened  with  a  little  flour 
kneaded  in  butter.  Boil  up  and  skim  £he  sauce ;  place  the 
slices  neatly  on  the  dish,  and  pour  it  around  them.  Now,  in 
Scotland,  where  cod  is  generally  cheap,  only  the  middle- 
cut  is  taken  for  a  company  dish ;  and  is  boiled,  skinned, 
browned  before  the  fire,  and  served  as  above  with  oyster 


TO  DBESS  COD  SOUNDS.  107 

or  shrimp  sauce.  Large  or  Dvblin  Bay  Haddocks  are 
cooked  and  served  as  cod,  but  need  not  lie  in  salt.  The 
French  make  entries  de  desserie  of  cold  cod  as  of  turbot. 
The  fish  may  be  used  as  above  quite  fresh. — See  I^ench 
Cookery  of  Fish, 

124.    TO  DRESS  COD-SOUNDS. 

Clean  and  scald  them  with  very  hot  water,  and  rub 
them  with  salt.  Take  off  the  sloughy  coat,  parboil  them, 
then  flour  and  broil  till  enough  done.  Dish  them,  and 
pour  a  sauce  made  of  browned  gravy,  pepper,  cayenne, 
salt,  a  little  butter  kneaded  in  browned  flour,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  made-mustard,  and  one  of  soy.  Cod-sounds  are  dressed 
as  ragouty  by  boiling  as  above,  and  then  stewing  in  clear 
gravy,  adding  a  little  cream  and  butter  kneaded  in  flour, 
with  a  seasoning  of  lemon-peel,  nutmeg,  and  mace.  Cut 
them  in  fillets.  They  may  also  be  cut  in  fillets,  turned 
round,  dipped  in  batter,  and  fried  ;  serve  on  a  napkin. — 
See  Note  to  No.  1189,  and  also  Nos.  682-3-4,  and  691. 
Cod-livers  and  their  oil  we  leave  to  the  physicians,  who 
make  the  most  of  them. 

125.    COLD  BOILED  COD  CURRIED. 

A  LARGE  fish  that  comes  in  fine  flakes  is  best.  Fry  the 
pieces  in  butter,  with  sliced  onions,  of  a  fine  brown,  and 
stew  them  in  a  little  white  gravy,  thickened  with  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  a  large  dessert-spoonful  of  currie- 
powder,  rubbed  down  with  a  glassful  of  good  cream. — Obs, 
Cream  for  curries  is,  we  think,  the  better  of  being  a  little 
turned^ — thick  and  sourish,  but  not  clotted.  Good  butter- 
milk makes  a  substitute  for  cream  in  this  and  most 
common  made-dishes.  The  flakes  may  be  seasoned  and 
then  fried  in  batter  with  butter  or  lard. — See  Curried 
Fish,  No.  164. 

126.    CABEACHED  COD. 

Cut  the  tail- part  of  the  fish  into  slices,  and  upon  these 
rub  some  white  pepper  and  salt.  Then  fry  in  Spanish  oil. 
Take  the  slices  from  the  pan,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate  to 
cool.  When  cold,  put  them  into  a  pickle  made  of  good 
vinegar,  in  which  some  white  peppercorns,  a  few  cloves,  a 
little  mace,  and  salt,  have  been  boiled.  ^Vhen  cold,  mix 
with  the  pickle  a  tea-cupful  of  oil.     Put  the  fish  into  a 


J  98  CHAP.  Vir. — FISH. 

pot,  and  between  every  piece  lay  a  few  slices  of  onion,  and 
keep  the  whole  well  covered  with  the  pickle.  In  the  same 
manner  salmon  may  be  cabeached ;  but  if  taken  fresh  out 
of  the  water,  it  is  liable  to  break,  which  it  will  not  do 
after  being  kept  a  few  days.  Mackerel  when  prime 
may  be  treated  in  this  way,  omitting  the  onion,  and  will, 
if  not  too  soon  opened  up,  keep  for  many  months,  and  be 
useful  when  fresh  fish  cannot  be  obtained.  Oil  should  be 
poured  over  the  pots  to  exclude  the  air.  This  is  the 
famous  Spanish  escaheche  or  fish- pickle.  The  Spanish  pre- 
paration is  similar  to  the  dish  above  described,  with  the 
addition  of  a  large  portion  of  garlic  and  some  bay-leaves. 
The  Spaniards  eat  it  with  ginger  and  salad,  and  some- 
times stew  it  lightly. 

127.    TO  CRIMP  COD. 

Boil  quickly  very  fresh  cod,  cut  in  thin  slices,  or  whole, 
in  strong  boiling  brine  for  fifteen  minutes  (only  ten  if 
cut.)  Serve  instantly  with  shrimp  or  oyster  sauce.  Cod 
in  slices  may  also  be  fried  or  grilled. 

128.    TO  DRBSS  SALT  COD,  LING,  TUSK,  &C. 

The  fisli  must  be  soaked  for  a  length  of  time  corre- 
sponding to  its  dryness  and  the  hardness  it  has  acquired. 
Soak  it  in  cold  water  for  a  night ;  that  done,  if  still  hard, 
beat  it  well  with  a  paste-roller,  and  brush  it  with  a  hard 
brush,  and  soak  it  again  in  lukewarm  water.  Let  it  come 
very  slowly  near  to  boil.  When  it  has  soaked  for  an  hour 
and  a  half  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  take  up  the  pieces ; 
scrape  off  the  tough  filmy  outer  parts,  or  clotted  scales, 
but  not  the  sMn^  which,  containing  much  gelatine,  is  the  best 
of  the  fish.  Place  the  pieces,  laid  skin  to  skin,  in  the 
stew-pan,  having  first  trimmed  them  neatly  from  bones 
and  films.  Pour  the  strained  boiling  liquor  over  them 
in  which  they  have  simmered ;  simmer  for  three,  or,  if 
needful,  four  hours  longer,  but  never  allow  the  fish  to  boil 
till  it  is  almost  ready.  Serve  on  a  napkin  with  egg-sauce 
or  parsnips  mashed  with  plenty  of  butter  ;  mustard  must 
never  be  forgotten.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  divided 
or  in  circular  slices. — Ohs,  At  sea,  salt  fish  is  dressed 
after  a  very  palatable,  if  not  refined  fashion,  by  pulling 
it,  when  boiled,  into  flakes,  and  beating  it  up  with  mashed 


TO  DRRSS  STUROfiDNS — ^TKASSD  SKAIS.  19d 

potatoes  or  |niiifii  and  batter.  In  New  Englmnd,  where 
ihe  nwnageinent  of  dry  cod  is  well  understood,  it  is 
alternately  soaked  and  laid  on  a  table  till  sufficiently 
softened,  which  is  thought  a  better  method  of  softening 
and  swelling  than  continual  soaking.  See  Nos.  690 
and  763. 

129.    TO  DRESS  STUROBON. 

This  fish  does  not  eat  well  boiled.  If  boiled,  skin  it. 
It  should  be  roasted  or  baked,  basting  with  plenty  of 
butter,  and  serving  with  a  rich  grary  relished  with 
anchovy,  wine,  and  juice  of  lemon ;  or  with  any  favourite 
flavoured  vin^ar.  Slices  of  sturgeon  skinned,  are  egged, 
dipped  in  bread-crumbs,  seasonings,  and  chopped  parsley, 
and  broiled  en  papillcie.  This  fish  is  seldom  seen  in 
England,  and  not  so  much  admired  as  on  the  Continent. 
Sauce, — oyster  or  lobster  sauce,  or  melted  butter,  with  a 
little  soy  and  essence  of  anchovy.  A  nonsensical  imita- 
tion of  pickled  sturgeon  is  made  of  a  large  turkey,  boned 
and  stewed  in  a  rich  pickle,  made  of  a  quart  of  wine 
vinegar,  a  pint  of  Rhenish  wine,  salt  and  spices.  The 
Chinese  dress  sturgeon  in  a  way  which  the  English  at 
Canton  admire. 

130.  TBASBD  SKATB. — Economical  andffood. 
From  Dr.  Huntev^s  CuHna, 

Take  the  dried  wing  of  a  skate,  and  after  stripping  ofF 
the  skin,  cut  it  into  lengths  of  about  one  inch  in  breadth. 
Put  the  fish,  so  prepared,  into  water,  and  boil  for  the  space 
of  twenty  minutes ;  after  which  let  it  be  put  into  the 
oven,  where  it  should  remain  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  during 
which  time  it  will  become  so  tender  as  to  permit  the  bones 
to  be  drawn  out.  The  flesh  being  now  detached  from 
the  bones,  it  should  be  put  into  a  cloth,  and  well  rubbed 
with  the  hands  till  it  puts  on  a  woolly  appearance,  which 
it  will  soon  do.  Take  a  saucepan,  and  in  it  reduce  about 
half  a  pound  of  butter  into  oil,  when  the  teased  flsh  should 
be  put  into  it,  and  kept  stirring  for  the  space  of  fifteen 
minutes.  When  sufficiently  heated,  serve  up. — Obs» 
Skate,  so  prepared,  may  be  eaten  as  salt  fish,  with  egg- 
sauce,  mashed  potatoes,  or  parsnips.  The  whole  wing  of 
a  large  skate  will  require  half  a  pound  of  butter  when  put 


200  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

into  the  saucepan.  It  is  a  good-looking  dish,  and  pre- 
pared at  a  small  expense.  It  may  be  served  in  a  dish  with 
a  paste  border,  or  in  a  casserole  of  mashed  potatoes. 

131.    TO  BOIL  SKATE.* 

If  to  be  crimp,  boil  it  quite  fresh ;, — if  liked  tender  and 
sapid,  it  may,  in  cool  weather,  hang  from  one  to  three 
days.  Sauce, — melted  butter,  or  lobster  or  caper  sauce. 
SkcEte  fries  very  well  when  parboiled  for  five  minutes,  cut 
in  thin  slices,  and  dipped  in  e^g  and  bread-crumbs;  it 
eats  well  cold,  with  mustard,  pepper,  and  vinegar.  It  is 
also  very  good  parboiled,  and  then  grilled  in  slices,  serving 
it  with  parsley  and  butter,  or  caper-sauce. 

132.    ANOTHER  WAY  TO  BOIL  SKATE. 

Make  a  stock  of  the  trimmings  of  the  skate,  parsley, 
onions,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  sprig  of  basil,  and  a  half-pint 
of  vinegar.  When  this  is  cooked  put  in  the  skate,  put 
also  in  the  liver,  let  it  just  boil,  and  leave  it  twelve 
minutes  covered  with  a  cloth  under  the  lid.  Dish  on  a 
napkin.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  brown  meat  nicely  minced, 
and  some  of  the  stock.      Garnish  with  the  liver.  —  Serve 


*  Skate  differs  more  in  quality  than  perhaps  any  other  fish.  Ifc 
should  be  broad  and  thick,  roughish  on  the  back,  and  of  a  creamy  or 
opal-tinged  -whiteness.  We  have,  however,  seen  a  small  kind  of  skate 
-which  is  caught  alon^  the  north-east  coast  of  Scotland,  of  a  leaden-blue 
colour,  called  by  fishermen  the  deen  or  dun  skate,  -which  is  more 
delicate  than  any  other  kind  -we  have  met  -with.  In  places  -where  this 
fish  forms  a  great  part  of  the  food  of  the  common  people,  it  is  best 
relished  -when  it  is  hung  till  dry,  by  -which  time  it  has  acquired  so 
strons^  a  smell  of  ammonia  as  to  be  intolerable  to  the  uninitiated.  This 
fish,  in  those  primitive  days  -when  as  yet  turtle  -was  not,  used  to  be 
esteemed,  when  eaten  cold,  -with  mustard  and  vinegar,  quite  a  grand 
regale  by  those  sober  citizens  of  Edinburgh  -who  repaired  on  holidays  to 
the  fishing-hamlets  around  the  city.  It  is  thought  to  eat  like  lobster, 
— ^by  persons  of  lively  imagination.  Skate  is  said,  when  out  of  season, 
to  produce  cholera  and  other  violent  diseases.  The  same  thing  ib 
alleged  of  salmon  in  the  state  of  foul  or  "black  fish  ;"  and  there 
is  no  question  but  that  fish  undergoes  a  change  at  particular 
seasons,  which  renders  it  fpr  the  time  exceedingly  improper  food. 
There  are  many  instances  of  seamen  dying  in  consequence  of  eating 
dolphin.  Shell-fish,  especially  muscles,  sometimes  occasion  violent 
disorders,  and  dried  salmon  is  at  tiroes,  according  to  Dr.  Christispn, 
found  as  poisonous  as  sausages.  It  is  said  that  accidents  of  this  nature 
maybe  avoided  by  the  simple  test  of  putting  a  piece  of  silver  into  the. 
fish-kettle.  If  it  blacken,  the  fish  should  be  considered  dangerous,  if 
not  Absolutely  poisonous. — P.  S.  T. 


TO  CPaMP  SKATE — HADDOCKS  IN  BROWN  SAUCE.         201 

Caper-muce^    Skate  is  also  served  with  onion-sauce,  pars- 
ley and  butter,  or  heurre  noir,  «.  e,  butter  fried  till  black, 

133.    TO  CBIHP  SKATE. 

Clean,  skin,  and  cut  the  fish  into  fillets,  which  must  be 
tied  to  keep  them  round.  Boil  these  quickly  in  water 
made  very  briny, — drain  the  fillets, — ^take  away  the  tapes, 
— and  serve  with  caper-sauce,  parsley  and  butter,  or  shrimp- 
sauce. — Obs,  The  French  stew  this  excellent  if  homely 
fish,  in  a  marinade  of  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  onions,  bay- 
leaves,  &c.  ^  and  after  skinning,  serve  it  with  caper-sauce, 
or  cucumbers.  As  the  Parisians  seldom  have  sea-fish  fresh, 
they  season  more  highly  than  the  English  and  Dutch.  On 
the  whole,  we  consider  the  modern  English  cookery  of  fish 
better  than  the  French. 

134.    HADDOCKS  IN  BItOWN  SAUCE. 

An  excellent  old-fashioned  Scotch  Dish, 
Clean,  cut  off  the  heads,  tails,  and  fins,  and  skin  from 
six  to  eight.middle-sized  haddocks.  Take  the  heads,  tails, 
and  trimmings,  with  two  or  three  of  the  fish  cut  down, 
and  boil  them  in  "a  quart  of  water  or  broth,  with  a  couple 
of  onions,  some  sweet  herbs,  and  a  piece  of  lemon-peel ; 
thicken  with  four  ounces  of  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour, 
strain  the  sauce,  and  season  highly  with  mixed  spices  and 
mushroom-catsup  ;  and  when  it  boils  and  is  skimmed,  put 
in  the  fish,  boned  and  cut  into  neat  pieces,  and  if  you 
choose,  previously  browned  in  the  frying-pan.  If  there 
be  too  little  sauce,  add  some  good  beef-gravy  ;  add,  if  you 
like,  a  quarter-hundred  of  oysters  and  a  glass  of  their 
liquor  ;  or  some  muscles,  and  a  little  wine.  Take  out  the 
fish,  when  ready,  with  a  slice,  and  pour  the  sauce,  which 
should  be  brown,  smooth,  and  thick,  over  them.  —  Other 
ways. — Haddocks  may  be  stuffed  with  a  fish-forcemeat,  and 
dressed  in  a  sauce,  as  directed  above.  Some  of  the  force- 
meat may  be  made  into  balls  for  garnishing.  Haddocks 
may  also  be  stuffed,  egged,  and  strewed  with  fine  bread- 
crumbs, and  minced  parsley ;  and  baked,  basting  them 
well  with  butter.  Serve  in  a  white  or  brown  sauce  made 
of  a  pound  or  more  of  good  veal,  onions,  and  parsley,  and 
thickened  with  plenty  of  butter  kneaded  in  browned  flour. 
Strain,  and  add  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 


202  CHAP.  Vn.— FISH. 

white  pepper  in  fine  powder,  a  quarter-hundred  of  pickled 
oj0ten,  and  a  spoonful  of  the  pickle.    Poor  the  skimnML 

sauce  over  the  fish.  Gambh  with  sliced  lemon  and  pickled 
samphire.  Whitings  are  dressed  as  above,  with  a  white 
sauce,  and  codlings  with  a  brown  sauce.  (For  Crappit 
Heads  see  Nixti&nal  Dishes,) — See  Fish  and  Sauee^  National 
Dishes. 

195.  HADDOCKS  BAKED, — a  plain  good  Family  Dish, 
Clban  and  season  three  or  four  haddocks,  place  them 
neatly  on  a  flat  dish,  with  a  border  of  paste  or  mashed 
potatoes  neatly  marked.  Glaze  with  an  egg,  and  place 
bits  of  butter  here  and  there  over  the  fish,  and  a  piece 
inside  of  each.  Garnish  with  potato-balls  ragout,  and 
bake  for  a  half-hour.  Four  a  little  melted  butter  and 
catsup  over  the  dish,  as  in  baking  fish  get  dry.  This  dish 
may  be  made  much  finer  by  adopting  receipt  No.  149. 

136.   TO  FRY  HADDOCKS,  SOLES,  TROUT,  PERCH,  TENCH, 
WHITINGS,  FLOUNDERS,  HERRINGS,  &C.* 

Clean  and  skin  the  haddocks  or  whitings.  If  the  had- 
docks are  too  large,  cut  them  in  two  or  three  pieces,— or 
split  them,  or  slit  the  backs.  The  bone  may  be  cut  out, 
particularly  in  large  fish  ;  or  they  may  be  dressed  m  fillets^ 
now  the  common  way :  fillets  are  made  by  cutting  the  fish 
neatly  o£f  the  backbone  in  oblong  slices ;  when  to  be 
boiled  or  dressed  a  la  Fran^aise,  skin  the  fish — two  soles  for 
example — make  a  deep  incision  down  the  backbone  on 
each  side,  and  divide  each  side  into  four  fillets ;  but  still  leave 
the  fish  on  the  bone  till  boiled  and  drained,  by  which  means 
the  fillets  will  be  more  easily  detached,  smooth  and  un- 
broken. When  the  fish  are  to  be  fried,  rub  them  with  flour, 
and,  if  to  be  higher  dressed,  rub  off  the  flour,  and  with  a 
paste-bnish  brush  them  over  with  beat  e^^  ;  strew  finely- 
grated  crumbs  over  them,  and  fry  in  a  deep  pan  in  plenty 

*  It  is  not  easy  to  know  the  delicate  whiting,  at  times,  from  the 
coarse  codling : — the  codling  has  a  beard — the  whiting  is  silveir  smooth. 
Flounders  differ  much  in  quality  ;  there  is  a  coarse  kind  of  flounder, 
with  bright  scarlet  star-like  spots,  which  in  reality  looks  better  than 
the  sober-coated  gray-backt  though  the  last  is  often  not  inferior  to  brill. 
The  colour  is  a  surer  test  than  the  thickness  or  firmness  of  the  fish. 
Haddocks  are  in  high  season  from  Whitsuntide  to  Christmas.  Herrings 
are  never  long  out  of  season,  though  the  quality  falls  off  at  times. 


TO  FRY  HADDOCKS,  &C.  203 

of  clarified  dripping  or  lard  (oil  is  still  better,)  heated  to 
such  a  degree  that  it  may  neither  scorch  the  fish  nor  yet 
stew  them  :  when  a  thick  smoke  rises  they  are  considered 
ready.  Turn  and  lift  them  carefully,  and  keep  them  hot 
by  the  fire,  on  a  reversed  sieve  and  paper,  to  absorb  the 
fat,  till  the  whole  are  finished.  Garnish  with  fried  oysters, 
or  a  few  sprigs  of  curled  parsley,  and  sliced  lemon,  and 
serve  very  hot,  with  shrimp-sauce,  if  any  is  used.  If 
small  fish  are  not  cut  in  pieces,  they  may  be  slit  either  in 
the  back,  or  slightly  scored ; — ^the  same  frying  fat  will  serve 
more  than  once,  if  strained.  Whitings  and  small  haddocks 
may  have  the  tail  pushed  through  the  eye.  French  cooks, 
and  many  English  ones,  serve  fried  fish  on  a  napkin,  which 
always  looks  well  if  neatly  done.  In  Scotland,  herrings 
are  often  dipped  in  oatmeal,  and  fried  in  plenty  of  dripping 
with  'sliced  onions.  In  France  mustard  is  served  with 
fried  fresh  herrings.  All  these  fish  are  occasionally  broiled 
either  split  {SccUic^^  speldered)  or  whole.  Wipe  them 
very  dry,  dust  them  with  flour,  and  broil  over  a  clear 
moderate  fire.  Haddocks,  split  and  boned,  (piperSy)  salted 
and  hung  for  a  day  or  two,  are  very  good  broiled.  Skin 
them,  dust  them  with  flour,  lay  them  on  a  girdiron,  and, 
if  not  split,  put  the  opened  part  downmost.  Turn  them 
a  few  minutes  on  both  sides,  and  they  are  done.  Serve 
with  cold  butter.     They  are  admirable  for  breakfast. 

137*  JPinnan  Haddocks  (so  named  from  a  hamlet,  about 
six  miles  south  from  Aberdeen,)  should  be  skinned,  broiled 
over  a  quick  and  clear  fire,  and  served  on  a  napkin.  Those 
of  the  best  quality  are  of  a  creamy-yellow  colour,  and  have  a 
peculiar  odour,  from  the  nature  of  the  materials  used  in 
preparing  them.  When  kept  above  forty-eight  hours  they 
lose  much  of  their  delicacy.  Broiled  haddocks,  whether 
^sh  rizzaredy  or  as  Finnans,  are  held  in  great  esteem  by 
those  who  relish  a  good  breakfast.  Finnans  are  now 
regularly  forwarded  from  Aberdeen  to  Edinburgh  and 
London  by  railways  and  steamers.  They  may  be  dressed 
in  a  bread-toaster  before  the  fire,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven.  An 
imitation  of  Finnans  is  now  made  at  many  parts  of  the 
coast ;    a  tolerable  one  by  dipping  the  fresh  split  fish  in 


204  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

pyroligneous  acid,  as  above,  and  smoking  them.  *  —  See 
1196. 

138.    TO  DRESS  SLICES  OF  HALIBUT,  LING,  OB  TUSK,— 

a  Maigre  Dish* 
Fry  the  fillets  in  butter,  and  then  stew  them  in  a  little 
fish-stock,  seasoned  with  parsley  and  celery.     Add  a  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  white  pepper,  mace,  a  little  lemon- 
peel,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  ;  or  use  a  currie-sauce. 

139.   HERRINGS  AND  MACKEREL. 

Choose  soft  roe  fresh  mackerel.  When  gently  boiled 
for  from  twelve  to  twenty  minutes  according  to  their  size, 
dish  on  a  napkin,  with  the  boiled  roe.  Serve  fennel  sauce, 
or  a  mixture  of.  fennel  and  parsley  ;  more  commonly 
melted  butter,  or  Maitre  ^ Hotel  sauce.  They  may  be 
fried  or  broiled,  either  split  or  whole,  sprinkled  or 
stuffed  with  herbs  chqpped,  and  crumbed,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  or  collared^  by  splitting  them,  tak- 
ing out  the  bones,  seasoning  with  mixed  spices,  rolling  up 
and  baking  them  in  a  slow  oven.  Herrings  or  mackerel 
are  very  good  baked,  and  will  keep  a  week.  Clean,  and 
season  them  highly  with  salt  and  mixed  spices.  Pack 
them  neatly,  h&ada  and  tails,  in  a  deep  dish.  Fill  up  with 
vinegar,  and  stick  a  little  butter  over  them.  Tie  them 
closely  up  with  several  folds  of  paper,  and  bake  them. 
They  eat  very  well  cold,  or  will  warm  up  in  their  own 
liquor.  For  pickling  highly,  bay-leaves,  and  more  vinegar 
and  spices,  may  be  employed,  and  the  fish  may  be  either 
baked  or  boiled  ; — boil  up  the  pickle,  and  when  cold  pour 
it  over  them,  as  directed  for  salmon,  p.  190. — The  French 
cook  mackerel  with  fine  herbs,  champagne,  and  butter. 
Nor  in  London  are  the  days  quite  gone  by — 

"  When  Mackerel  seemed  delightful  to  their  eyes, 
Though  dressM  with  incoherent  gooseberries/^ 

*  "  A  Finnan  haddock/*  writes  Sir  Walter  Scott,  "  has  a  relish  of  a 
very  peculiar  and  delicate  flavour,  inimitahle  on  any  other  coast  than 
that  of  Aberdeenshire.  Some  of  our  Edinburgh  philosophers  tried 
to  produce  their  equal  in  vain.  I  was  one  of  a  party  at  a  dinner 
where  the  philosophical  haddocks  were  placed  in  competition  with  the 
genuine  Finnan  fish.  These  were  served  round  without  distinguishing 
whence  they  came  ;  but  only  one  gentleman  out  of  twelve  present 
espoused  the  cause  of  philosophy."  —  BostveWs  Life  of  Johnson,  by 
Croker,  vol.  ii.  p.  343,  note. 


TO  STBW  TROUT,  &C.  205 

*  189.    FRESH  HERRINGS  AS  DRESS^  AT  INVERART, 

and  the  Highland  Sea-Lochs, 

The  best  herrings  are  obtained  almost  alive.  Cut  oflP 
the  beads,  fins,  and  tails ;  scale,  gut,  and  wash  them. 
Split  and  bone  them,  dust  the  inside  with  pepper  and  fine 
salt.  Place  two  herrings  flat  together,  the  backs  outmost, 
and  dip  in  oatmeal  and  fry  them  for  seyen  minutes. 
Serve  hot.  They  are  delicious ;  and,  in  the  'summer,  add 
much  to  the  breakfasts  in  the  steamers  on  the  Clyde,  and 
round  all  the  north-east  and  west  coasts  of  Scotland. 

140,  TO  STEW  TROUT,  CARP,  OR  PERCH. 

Clean  the  fish  very  well ;  if  large,  they  may  be  divided 
or  split.  Rub  them  inside  with  salt  and  mixed  spices. 
Lay  them  in  the  stew-pan,  and  put  in  nearly  as  much  good 
stock  as  will  cover  them,  with  a  couple  of  onions  and  four 
cloves  stuck  in  them,  some  Jamaica  and  black  peppercorns, 
and  a  bit  of  mace ;  and  when  the  fish  have  stewed  a 
few  minutes,  a  couple  of  glasses  of  white  wine,  a  boned 
anchovy,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Take 
up  the  fish  carefully  when  ready,  and  keep  them  hot. 
Thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  kneaded  in  brown  flour  ; 
add  a  little  mushroom-catsup  and  a  few  pickled  oysters, 
if  approved  :  —  the  sauce,  though  less  piquant,  is  more 
delicate  without  catsup.  Having  skimmed  and  strained, 
pour  it  over  the  fish,  —  Obs,  In  the  French  and  Dutch 
kitchen,  fish  is  sometimes  stewed  maigre  with  wine, 
spiceries,  and  butter.  The  dry,  austere  or  sub-acid  wines 
are  the  best  adapted  for  this  purpose.  The  sauce  is 
thickened  with  bread  boiled  in  it.  These  fish  may  all  be 
boiled  plain,  and  served  with  finely-minced  parsley  and 
butter,  or  fennel,  or  chervil  and  butter,  or  equal  parts  of 
each.  (See  Sauces,) — The  fish  may  be  browned  previously ; 
but  we  conceive  the  flavour  better  when  they  are  at  once 
put  to  stew  in  the  sauce.  In  England  fish  is  sometimes 
stewed  in  cider  instead  of  wine,  seasoning  with  cayenne, 
eschalot,  or  onion.  In  Germany  carp  is  sometimes  even 
yet  stewed  in  strong  ale  thickened  with  gingerbread  !  — 
See  Nos.  685-7. 


206  CHAP.  Vll. — FISH. 

141.  TO  STEW  SOLES,  EEIS,  LAMPREYS,  AND  f  ILLBTS  OF  TURBOT, 

HALIBUT,  WHITINGS,  COD,  &C. 

Clean  and  trim  the  fish.  £els  must  be  cut  in  from 
three  to  four-inch  lengths,  and  rubbed  with  salt  to  draw 
out  the  slime.  Wash  them  thoroughly ;  cut  off  the  heads. 
The  other  kinds  of  fish  may  be  cut  into  larger  pieces ;  the 
pieces  may  be  dipped  in  eggy  roUed  in  grated  crumbs,  and 
browned  before  they  are  put  into  the  stew-pan.  Have  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  good  clear  beef-gravy,  in  which  two 
onions,  a  carrot,  and  a  few  pot-herbs  have  been  boiled. 
Stew  the  fish  in  this  gravy  very  gently,  giving  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  to  the  harder  sorts,  and  about  ten  minutes 
to  whitings  or  eels.  Lift  out  the  pieces  or  fillets  with 
a  fish  slice,  and  keep  them  hot.  Skim  the  sauce,  and 
thicken  it  with  brown  flour,  rawc,  or  rice-flour  ;  add 
a  small  glass  of  wine,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  mushroom- 
catsup  ;  give  it  a  minute's  boiling,  and  strain  it  over  the 
dished  stewed  fish. — Obs,  Stewed  fish  may  be  dressed  for 
maiffre  days  in  the  French  manner,  making  the  stock 
strong,  either  with  fish  or  butter,  or  part  of  both,  and 
using  more  herbs  and  seasonings.  Lampreys  and  codlings 
are  the  better  of  having  an  anchovy  and  some  made- 
mustard  added  to  the  above  sauce.  Serve  them  with 
scraped  horseradish,  sippets  of  bread,  or  fried  parsley. 

142.  TO  FRY  eels.* 

Skin  and  clean  them,  rub  them  with  salt,  and  wash 

*  The  froBhness  of  an  eel  is  known  by  its  vivacity  of  motion ;  and 
its  qoalitj  by  the  colour  of  the  skin.  The  best  kind---the  silver  eel — 
is  that  found  in  the  clearest  waters.  The  dingy  yellow,  and  the  deep 
sallow-green  are  very  inferior  to  the  clear,  coppery,  brown-backed  eel, 
and  even  to  the  bronze-coloured.  Fresh-water  iish  of  all  kinds  are 
best  when  found  in  clear  streams.  The  natives  of  turbid,  sluggish 
waters,  are  justlv  considered  more  difficult  of  digestion.  This  is  said 
to  be  peculiarly  tne  case  with  salmon.  If  slimy,  soak  the  eels  in  water 
in  which  a  piece  of  alum  or  charcoal  is  put. 

The  cruelty  inflicted  on  eels  is  proverbial.  Instead  of  skinning  and 
cutting  alive,  a  humane  method  of  putting  them  to  death  is  recom- 
mend^ by  Dr.  Kitchenbr,  which  deserves  to  be  generally  known. 
With  a  sharp-pointed  skewer  pierce  the  spinal  marrow  through  the 
back  part  of  the  skull,  when  life  will  instantly  cease.  Mons.  Udb  gives 
the  following  receipt : — **^  Take  live  eels,  throw  them  into  the  fire,  and 
as  they  are  twisting  about  on  all  sides,  lay  hold  of  them  with  a  towel 
in  your  hand,  and  skin  them  ! "  M.  Udb  belongs,  we  presume,  to  the 
revolution  of  1780,  not  to  that  of  1830. 


TO  FRTy  COLLA.R,  AND  SPITCBCOCK  E£LS.  207 

them  in  several  waters.  Cut  them  in  fouivinch  lengths ; 
but  if  small,  torn  them  round,  the  tail  to  the  mouth,  and, 
haTing  rubbed  them  with  salt  and  mixed  spices,  brush 
them  with  beat  egg,  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  plenty 
of  boiling  lard,  drain  from  the  fat  on  a  sieve  before  the 
fire,  and  aerre  with  chervil  and  butter,  or  parsley  and 
butter,  plain  melted  butter,  or  melted  butter  sharpened 
with  vinegar  or  lemon-juice.  If  inat^r^  fry  in  butter  or 
oil.    This,  on  a  mo^rre  day,  is  a  dish  for  the  Pope. 

N.B.  The  fat  in  which  eels  are  fried  does  not  answer 
well  for  frying  other  fish. 

143.    TO  COLLAR  EELS. 

Bone  without  mangling  a  large  eel.  Season  it  highly  by 
rubbing  it  with  mixed  spices  finely  pounded,  chopped 
parsley,  sage,  and  a  sprig  of  lemon-thyme.  Roll  up  and 
bind  the  collar  with  tape,  and  boil  it  in  salt  and  water 
till  tender.  It  may  be  served  whole  with  a  sharp  sauce, 
or  it  may  be  cut  in  slices.  It  will  keep  in  a  pickle  of 
the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  adding  salt  and  vinegar.  Eels 
may  be  stewed  as  carp,  but  are  rather  a  luscious  dish. 
144.  TO  spiTCHcocK  EBU3. — Linlitkffcw  receipt. 

Clean  them  well,  and  rub  with  salt  and  skin  them. 
Slit  open  the  belly  and  take  out  the  bone.  Wash  and 
dry  them,  cut  in  pieces  about  four  inches  long,  dredge 
with  flour,  which  wipe  off,  that  they  may  be  quite  dry. 
Dip  them  in  a  thick  batter  made  of  melted  butter,  yolk 
of  eggs,  with  a  little  minced  parsley,  sage,  and  a  very 
little  eschalot,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Roll  the  pieces  in 
fine  grated  bread-crumbs,  or  biscuit  pounded.  Dip  and 
roll  them  again,  and  broil  on  a  clear  fire  of  a  fine  light- 
brown.  Eels  may  be  dipped  and  broiled  whole  if  they 
are  not  too  large,  or  roasted  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Serve 
either  anchovy-sauce  or  melted  butter,  sharpened  with  any 
favourite  flavoured  vinegar.  Garnish  with  crisped  parsley. 
JEels  are,  by  many  gourmands^  preferred  when  boiled  plain, 
strewing  dried  parsley  and  sage,  pulverized,  over  them, 
and  serving  witii  them  plain  melted  butter,  sharpened 
with  lemon-juice.  (See  also  Bemauletde-satice.) — Eels  are 
also  dressed  cis  Fish  in  Sauce^  or  as  Water-Souchy.  They 
are  sometimes  farced. 


r} 


208  CHAP.  VII. FISH. 

145.    TO  FRY  SPRATS,  SMELTS,  AND  OTHER  SMALL  FISH. 

Clean  them  well,  and,  when  wiped  dry,  rub  them  with 
flour  to  absorb  any  moisture  that  remains.  Dip  them  in 
beat  egg,  and  then  in  fine  bi'ead-crumbs.  Fry  them  in 
plenty  of  oil,  lard,  or  clarified  dripping,  making  it  quite 
hot.  Take  care  in  turning  not  to  break  them.  If  wanted 
very  nice,  they  may  be  twice  dipped  in  egg  and  crumbs,  or 
biscuit-powder.  Lay  them  on  a  sieve  reversed  to  drain, 
and  serve  on  a  napkin.  These  delicate  fish  may  also  be 
stewed  in  wine,  with  a  little  vinegar  and  plenty  of  spice  ; 
or  in  cider  :  or  they  may  be  seasoned  with  salt,  mace,  and 
cayenne,  and  arranged  with  the  tails  meeting  in  the  centre 
of  a  flat  baking-dish,  covered  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  over 
which  plenty  of  fresh  butter  is  laid,  and  baked  for  from 
ten  to  twelve  minutes.  Serve  as  above,  placing  the 
baking-dish  concealed  on  another,  in  which  a  napkin  is 
pufled.     Garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  lemon  sliced. 

146.    TO  BROIL,  bake,  OR  FRY  SPRATS,  SMELTS,  &C. 

Run  a  long  bird-skewer  or  a  common  knitting-needle 
through  the  eyes.  Dust  them  with  flour,  and  have  a  hot 
gridiron  rubbed  vfith  mutton-suet  or  chalk,  and  a  clear 
fire.  Serve  them  hot.  These  fish  will  pickle  or  bake  ; 
and  eat  very  well  cold.  Bake  them  with  butter,  and  a 
high  seasoning  of  mixed  spices  and  vinegar.  They  will 
keep  for  a  week.  —  Another  way.  Dip  them  in  a  batter 
made  of  two  eggs,  and  bread-crumbs  mixed  with  flour 
and  seasonings,  and  fry  them.  Serve  them  on  fried 
parsley. — Ohs»  ImUation-Anchovies  may  be  made  of  sprats 
cured  in  a  strong  pickle  of  bay  and  common  salt,  and  sal 
prunella,  sugar,  and  pounded  pepper,  with  a  little  cochineal 
to  colour  them.  In  Scotland,  sprats,  garvocks,  &c.,  and 
herrings,  are  roasted  on  the  girdle  which  toasts  the  family 
oat-bread,  and  this  plan  answers  very  well  in  cottage 
economy. — See  White  Bait. 

147.    TO  DRESS  red  HERRINGS,  SARDINIAS,  AND  BUFFED  AND 

PICKLED  HERRINGS. 

Skin,  open,  and  trim  red  herrings.  If  old  and  dry,  pour 
some  hot  small  beer  or  water  over  them,  and  let  them 
steep  a  half-hour,  or  longer  if  hard.  Yarmouth  bloaters 
seldom  need  soaking.     Broil  them  over  a  clear  fire  at  a 


PICKLED  HERRINGS.  203 

considerable  distance  ;  or  before  the  fire  :  rub  them  with 
good  oil  or  fresh  butter  while  broiling,  and  rub  on  a  little 
more  when  they  are  served.  Serve  them  very  hot  with 
cold  butter  ;  or  with  melted  butter  and  mustard,  and 
mashed  potatoes  or  pai'snips. 

Steep  pickled  Herrings  from  one  to  two  days  and  nights, 
changing  the  water  if  they  be  very  salt.  Hang  them  upon 
a  stick  pushed  through  the  eyes,  and  broil  them  when 
wanted.  These  are  called  huffed  herrings  in  Scotland,  and 
are  served  at  breakfast  or  supper. 
148.  PICKLED  HERRINGS, — a  French  way  for  a  rere-supper. 

Wash  the  herrings ;  cut  off  the  heads  and  tips  of  the 
tails ;  skin  them ;  steep  them  in  lukewarm  milk  and 
water,  and  dry  and  broil  them ;  dish  with  slices  of  raw 
onions  and  rennets,  and  serve  with  oil. 

149.  TO  STUFF  AND  BAKE  CARP,  PIKE,*  AND  HADDOCKS. 

Having  scaled  and  cleaned  the  fish  without  cutting  open 

*  Receipt  for  Dressing  a  Pike,  by  Isaak  Walton. — "  First  open 
your  pike  at  the  gills,  and,  if  -need  be,  cut  also  a  little  slit  towards  the 
belly.  Out  of  these  take  his  guts,  and  keep  his  Kver,  which  you  are  to 
shred  very  small  with  thyme,  sweet-marjoram,  and  a  little  winter- 
savory;  to  these  put  some  pickled  oysters,  and  some  anchovies,  two  or 
three,  both  these  last  whole,  for  the  anchovies  will  melt,  and  the  oysters 
should  not;  to  these  you  must  add  also  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  which 
yon  are  to  mix  with  the  herbs  that  are  shred,  and  let.  them  all  be  well 
salted.  If  the  pike  be  more  than  a  yard  long,  then  you  may  put  into 
these  herbs  more  than  a  pound,  or  if  he  be  less,  then  less  butter  will 
suffice;  these,  being  thus  mixed,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  must  be 
put  into  the  pikers  belly ;  and  then  his  belly  so  sewed  up  as  to  keep  all 
the  butter  in  his  belly  if  it  be  possible ;  if  not,  then  as  much  as  you 
possibly  can.  But  ta^e  not  off  the  scales.  Then  you  are  to  thrust  the 
spit  through  his  mouth,  out  at  his  tail.  And  then  take  four,  or  five,  or 
six  split  sticks,  or  very  thin  laths,  and  a  convenient  quantity  of  tape  or 
filleting  ;  these  laths  are  to  be  tied  roimd  about  the  pike''s  body  from 
his  he£^  to  his  tail,  and  the  tape  tied  somewhat  thick,  to  prevent  his 
breaking  or  falling  off  from  the  spit.  Let  him  be  roasted  very  leisurely, 
and  often  basted  with  claret  wine,  and  anchovies  and  butter  mixed 
together,  and  also  with  what  moisture  falls  from  him  into  the  pan. 
When  you  have  roasted  him  sufficiently,  you  are  to  hold  under  him, 
when  you  unwind  or  cut  the  tape  that  ties  him,  such  a  dish  as  you 
propose  to  eat  him  out  of,  and  let  him  fall  into  it  with  the  sauce  that  is 
roasted  in  his  belly,  and  by  this  means  the  pike  will  be  kept  unbroken 
and  complete.  Then,  to  the  sauce  which  was  within,  and  also  that 
sauce  in  the  pan,  you  are  to  add  a  fit  quantity  of  the  best  butter,  and 
to  squeeze  the  juice  of  three  or  four  oranges.  Lastly,  you  may  either 
pat  it  into  the  pike,  with  the  oysters,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  and  take  it 

O 


210  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

much  of  the  hreast,  stuff  them  with  a  maigre  forcemeat 
made  thus  :  Beat  yolka  of  eggs,  a  few  oysters  bearded  and 
chopped,  and  two  boned  anchories,  pounded  biscuit,  or 
bread  gi*ated,  minced  parsley,  and  a  bit  of  eschalot  or  an 
onion,  a  blade  of  mace  pounded,  pepper,  allspice,  and  salt. 
Mix  these  in  the  proper  proportions ;  and,  having  beat  a 
good  piece  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  stir  them  in  it,  over 
the  fire,  till  of  the  consistence  of  a  thick  batter,  adding 
more  biscuit-powder  or  flour  if  necessary.  Fill  the 
fish  and  sew  up  the  slit.  Bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven, 
basting  with  plenty  of  butter,  and  sticking  butter  all 
over  them.  They  will  look  handsomer  if  brushed  with 
e^^  and  crumbed.  Serve  Pike  with  anchovy-sauce,  and 
carp  with  the  following  sauce  : — Take  up  the  fish  on  a 
hot  dish  ;  thicken  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  baked 
with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  boiling  it  for  a  few  minutes 
with  a  fagot  of  parsley,  a  few  leaves  of  basil,  a  sprig  of 
lemon-thyme,  and  a  very  little  marjoram.  Strain  and 
add  to  the  sauce  a  tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard,  and  one 
of  Chili  vinegar,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  and  a  little  soy^ 
with  mace,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  a  little  of 
this  over  the  carp,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  tureen.  Garnish 
with  curled  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon,  or  parsley  and 
scraped  horseradish. — Ohs,  A  highly-relishing  forcemeat 
for  the  above  may  be  made  of  scraped  ham  or  tongue,  or 
bacon  fried  and  cut  in  little  bits,  suet  or  marrow,  eschalot, 
cayenne,  salt,  a  chopped  anchovy,  bread-crumbs,  a  little 
walnut  or  oyster  liquor,  with  e^^  to  bind  the  composition. 
The  meat  of  a  lobster  may  be  substituted  for  the  ham  or 
fried  bacon. — See  Crappit  Heads  and  Fill^  of  Haddocks, 
also  French  Cookery  of  Fish, 

150.    TO  DRBSS  PLAICE,  BRILL,  OR  LARGE  FLOUNDERS. 

Clean,  and  without  washing  wipe  the  fish,  and  rub  it 
with  salt.     When  it  has  lain  from  six  hours  to  a  day, 

whole  oat  "when  the  pike  is  cut  off  the  spit ;  or,  to  |ive  the  sauce  a 
hogoo,  {haul  f/outf  we  presume,)  let  the  dish  into  wnich  you  let  the 
pike  fall  be  rubbed  with  it;  the  osiDg  or  not  using  of  this  garlic  is  left 
to  your  discretion. 

**  This  dish  of  meat  is  too  good  for  any  but  anglers  or  very  honest 
men;  and  I  trust  you  will  prove  both,  and  therefore  I  have  trusted  you 
with  this  secret.*^ 


TO  DRESS  PIPERS,  RED  MULLET,  FISH-TURTLE.  211 

wash  it,  wipe  it  very  drj^,  and  rub  with  flour  to  absorb  all 
the  remaining  damp.  When  the  flour  is  rubbed  ofi^, 
brush  it  over  with  beat  egg,  and  dip  it  in  bread-crumbs, 
with  a  little  finely-minced  parsley.  Fry  it  in  plenty  of 
lard,  and  when  drained  from  the  fat,  serve  it  en  ^ied 
parsley,  with  anchovy-sauce,  or  melted  butter  sharpened 
with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  Seville  orange. 

mi.    TO  DRESS  PIPERS. 

Clean  a  very  fresh  fish  without  cutting  it  open  too 
much.  Stuff  it  with  a  forcemeat  of  two  or  three  ounces 
of  shred  suet,  and  a  large  breakfast-cupful  of  bread- 
crumbs, mixed  with  two  eggs,  chopped  parsley,  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Sew  in  this  stuffing,  skewer 
the  tail  into  the  mouth ;  flour,  egg,  and  crumb  the  fish  ; 
bake  it  in  a  hot  oven ;  drain  it  and  serve  with  Dutch 
sauce. — This  must  not  be  confounded  with  Hzzared  had- 
docks, which  in  Scotland  are  often  called  pipers^ 

1^2.   TO  DRESS  RED  MULLET. 

Clean  and  bake  or  boil  the  fish.      Serve  with  lobster- 
sauce. — Ohs,  French  cooks  do  not  gut  this  delicate  fish. 
It  is   merely  washed,  wrapped  in  buttered  paper-cases, 
and  baked  to  preserve  the  delicacy  of  its  native  flavour. 
>Serve  in  the  cases. 

163.  FISH-TURTLE, — A  /(wourtte  dish. 

Fry  slices  of  fresh  codling  or  haddock,  and  drain  them. 
Parboil,  skin,  and  cut  into  squares  a  piece  of  good  skate. 
Have  ready  some  gravy,  or  broth  of  cow-heel,  beef,  or  veal, 
highly  seasoned  with  pepper,  cayenne,  and  catsup,  and 
thickened  with  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Stew  the  fish  in 
this  stock  with  the  meat  of  a  lobster,  and  a  few  oysters  in 
their  juice.  Season  with  essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  little 
wine,  if  you  like.     Serve  in  a  soup-dish. 

164.    TO  CURRIE  HADDOCKS,  CODLINGS,  WHITINGS, 

or  slices  of  Cod,  Halihta,  and  other  Fish, 
Have  a  quart  of  good  beef  or  veal  stock,  in  which  a 
carrot  or  turnip  and  two  onions  have  been  boiled. 
Thicken  it  with  butter  kneaded  in  lightly-browned  rice 
flour.  Having  cleaned,  skinned,  and  boned  the  fish,  cut 
them  into  neat  fillets  of  about  three  inches  in  length. 
Rui)  them  with  flour,  and  fry  them  in  butter  or  lard 


212  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

of  a  fine  golden  brown.  Drain  them,  and  mix  very 
smoothly  \vith  a  little  of  the  stock  from  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful to  a  table-spoonful  of  currie-powder,  two  onions  beaten 
in  a  mortar,  and  a  large  quarter-pint  of  thick  cream, — 
if  a  little  sour  so  much  the  better.  Stew  the  fish  very 
slowly  in  the  stock  till  they  are  tender,  which  will  not 
take  long.  Place  the  pieces  neatly  in  the  dish,  the  largest 
in  the  centre,  and  having  skimmed  the  currie-sauce,  pour 
it  over  them. 

Obs,  Currie  has  become  a  favourite  way  of  dressing  fish,  though 
it  finds  no  place  in  any  book  of  cookery.    It  is  cheap,  convenient, 
and  even  elegant.    Instead,  however,  of  using  currie-powder  as 
obtained  in  shops,  we  would  advise  every  cook  to  keep  the 
several  ingredients,  each  good  of  its  kind,  in  well-stopped  vials, 
and  to  mix  them  when  they  are  wanted,  suiting  the  quantities  of 
the  various  ingredients  to  the  nature  of  the  dish.    Fish,  for  ex- 
ample, requires  more  acid  than  fowl.    Some  people  like  a  great 
deid  of  cayenne,  others  detest  the  taste  and  smell  of  turmeric, 
and  some  are  all  for  ginger.    To  use  currie-powder  mixed  in  the 
same  proportions  for  every  sort  of  viand  and  of  taste,  may  do 
very  well  for  those  who  entertain  a  mysterious  yeneration  for  the 
Oriental  characters  inscribed  on  the  packages,  but  will  not  suit  a 
gourmand  of  any  knowledge  or  experience.     Prawns,  oysters,  or 
muscles,  may  be  added  to  fish  currie,  and  are  also  curried  by  them- 
selves.   Dressed  fish  will  make  good  currie.    The  currie  may  be 
any  shade  of  colour,  from  pale  gold  to  deep  rich  brown,  by 
browning  the  fish  and  onions  more  or  less,  or  adding  browning. 
155.  DUTCH  WATER-soucHY,  matgre. 
Eels,  gudgeons,  whitings,  flounders,  perch,  tench,  &c. 
are  all  employed  for  this  dish.     Whichever  sort  of  fish 
you  use,  clean  them  well,  taking  out  the  gills,  eyes,  &c. 
Cut  them  in  neat  small  pieces.   Have  a  little  good  fish-stock 
made  of  the  heads  and  fins,  and  seasoned  with  onion, 
parsley,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  pepper,  and  salt.    Strain  and 
skim,  and  stew  the  cut  fish  in  this  for   eight   or  ten 
minutes.     Put  in  a  little  catsup  ;  skim,  and  serve  it  in  a 
soup-dish.     A  bay-leaf  may  be  boiled  in  the  stock,  and 
the  souchy  may  be  flavoured  with   essence  of  anchovy, 
eschalot,  or  any  flavouring  ingredient  that  is  approved.* 
Dr.  Anthony  Todd  Thomson's  receipt.  —  Boil  two  small 

*  We  have  been  refused  the  receipt  of  the  Star  Inn  at  Alphen,  in 
Holland,  a  place  famous  for  its  toater-zocije.  This  is  illiberality  'which 
|;he  Cleikum  Club  rarely  experiences.  . 


CRAY- FISH.  213 

flounders,  whitings,  or  haddocks,  in  a  quart  of  water  to  a 
third,  reducing  them  nearly  to  a  pulp  ;  prepare  four  more 
flounders,  and  boil  them  in  the  strained  liquor,  serving  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  This  is  stroiigly  recom- 
mended for  convalescents ;  thickening  with  beat  yolk  of 
egg  if  in  advanced  convalescence. 

156.    TO  DRESS  CRAT-FISH  AND  WHITE  BAIT. 

Boil  cray-fish  for  four  minutes  in  the  shell,  in  wine 
and  water,  or  in  water  and  vinegar,  with  herbs,  and 
serve  them,  hot  or  cold,  on  a  napkin  arranged  neatly  in 
form. 

TO  DRESS  CRAT-FISH  AND  WHITE  BAIT,  OS  Ot  Greenwkhy 

and  Lovegrove^s^  BlackwalL 

The  sooner  this  delicate  fish  is  cooked  after  it  leaves  the 
water  the  better,  just  like  herrings,  mackerel,  and  also  the 
small  species  eaten  as  white  bait.  Keep  them  in  a  pan  of  salt 
water,  or  salted  water.  Lift  them  with  a  skimmer, — ^for  they 
should  never  be  handled, — into  a  towel  in  which  plenty  of 
flour  is  put.  Toss  them  about  till  coated  with  flour; 
place  them  in  a  colander,  and  sift  all  the  flour  off  them 
that  will  come,  and  instantly  fry  them  for  from  one  to 
two  minutes  in  hot  lard;  lift  with  the  fish-skimmer, 
drain  from  the  frying  fat,  and  serve  neatly  and  instantly 
on  a  fish-plate  of  china  or  silver,  piling  them  like  a 
pyramid.  They  are  eaten  with  brown  bread  and  butter, 
and  sattced  at  table  with  a  squeeze  of  cut  lemon  and 
cayenne  :  the  accompanying  beverage  iced  punch. — Ohs, 
White  bait  is  now  settled  to  be  a  distinct  species  of  fish ;, 
especially  created,  we  presume,  for  English  cabinet  minis- 
ters and  their  friends,  and  a  few  London  bankers  and 
merchants.  It  is,  however,  found  in  other  British  estuaries 
besides  the  Thames,  though  it  never  can  relish  on  the  shores 
of  the  Dornoch  Firth  as  at  Greenwich.  The  receipt  is 
applicable  to  all  localities,  and  to  several  small  delicate 
species  of  fish  that  pass  for  genuine  white  bait. 
1 57.  RICH  FisH-piE, — a  maigre  dish. 

Clean  and  nicely  trim  either  soles,  trout,  salmon, 
turbot,  whichever  is  intended  for  the  pie,  and  cut  the  meat 
from  the  bone  in  handsome  fillets.  Season  the  fillets  with 
pepper,  cayenne,  mace,  and  salt.     They  may  either  be 


214  CHA.P.  VII.— .FISH. 

ttmed  round  or  laid  flat  in  the  pie-dish,  packing  them 
neatly.  If  to  be  very  rich,  the  pie-dish  may  be  lined 
with  iish-forcemeat.  Put  bits  of  butter  below  and  above 
the  fish,  and  strew  in,  if  to  be  toery  rich,  chopped  shrimps 
or  prawns,  or  the  soft  part  of  oysters,  or  lobster-meat. 
Season  a  half-pint  of  stock  made  of  the  fish-heads  and 
trimmings;  thicken,  and  strain  this  over  the  fish,  and 
cover  the  dish  with  a  good  pufF-paste.  -It  will  require 
less  baking  than  a  meat-pie  of  the  same  size.  —  See  Fish 
Pudding. 

16Q»  LOBSTER-PIE, — a  maigre  dish, 
Pajuioil  two  good  lobsters ;  take  out  ail  that  is  good 
of  the  meat,  and  cut  it  in  bits,  and  place  it  in  a  small 
pie-dish.  Beat  the  «pawn  and  shells,  and  stew  them  in 
water,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  a  little  good 
vinegar.  Strain  this  over  the  lobster-meat,  and  cover 
with  a  light  paste.  A  little  soy,  wine,  cayenne,  and  cat-* 
sup  will  make  this  pie  more  relishing. — Ohs.  Some  know- 
ing gourmands  have  lobster-pies  made  of  alternate  layers 
of  lobster  and  oyster  meat,  and  bread-crumbs,  with  small 
farce-balls  of  pounded  oysters,  lobster-coral,  and  essence 
of  anchovies. 

159.    FISH  RE- WARMED. 

Take  cold  cod,  turbot,  skate,  pike,  or  other  fish,  in  neat 
bits  from  the  bone :  place  in  a  dish  any  sauce  left  of 
it,  and  lay  the  bits  on  this,  pouring  over  them  four  ounces 
of  butter  melted  in  cream,  and  thickened  and  seasoned  to 
your  taste  with  cayenne,  made  mustard,  and  Harvey's  fish 
sauce  :  Heat  thoroughly  in  a  Dutch  oven  :  the  dish  may 
have  a  paste  border,  or  be  served  on  another  dish  in  a 
pufied  napkin.  —  See  Nos.  683-4,  for  French  receipts. 
160.  A  SAVOURY  SHRIMP  OR  PRAWN  PIE,  maigre. 

Have  as  many  well-cleaned  shrimps  or  prawns  as  will 
nearly  fill  the  pie-dish.  Season  with  pounded  mace, 
cloves,  a  little  cayenne,  or  Chili  vinegar.  Put  some  butter 
in  the  dish,  and  cover  with  a  light  pufF-paste.  Less  than 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  bake  these  pies. 

161.  AN  EXCELLENT  SALT-FISH  PIE,  maigre. 

This  may  be  made^of  either  cod  or  haddocks  salted,  but 
not   too  dry.     Steep  and  boil  the  fish.     Trim  away  all 


FISH-PIBS  AND  SAUCES.  215 

skins,  bones,  and  fins,  and  cat  them  into  thin  handsome 
pieces.  Boil  hard,  and  peel  half  a  dozen  eggs,  and  slice 
them  thin  ;  do  the  same  with  as  many  well-sized  onions. 
Have  plenty  of  parboiled  potatoes  sliced.  Place  some 
bits  of  butter  and  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  the  bottom  of  a 
large  pie-dish,  then  fish,  then  eggs,  then  onions,  and  again 
butter,  thus  filling  up  the  dish,  shaking  pepper  over  every 
separate  layer,  and  putting  butter  over  each.  Make  a 
sauce  of  chopped  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  melted  butter, 
a  little  made-mustard,  and  essence  of  anchovy,  or  soy, 
and  pour  it  over  the  pie.  Cover  it  with  a  puff-paste,  or 
with  mashed  potatoes,  scalloped  round  the  edge,  and 
glazed  with  eggs.  This  pie  will  not  require  much  of  the 
oven, — Ohs.  Pies  may  be  made  of  perch,  mackerel,  her- 
rings, soles,  flounders,  haddocks,  &c.  The  tough  or  oily 
fish  must  b3  previously  skinned.  Fish-pies  may  be  baked 
operiy  and  we  think  are  best  so,  with  merely  a  border, 
and,  when  dished,  a  sprinkling  of  hard  white  of  eggs 
strewed  over. —  See  Potaio  Pcbsty* 

162.    A  BICH  FISH-PIE,  OB  BAKED  FISH. 

Three  middling-sized  haddocks,  mackerels,  or  soles, 
will  make  a  pie.  They  may  be  stuffed,  well  seasoned, 
and  laid,  in  an  oval  flat  dish,  with  a  puff-paste  border  and 
centre  ornament,  or  an  edging  of  mashed  potatoes  neatly 
marked.  Stick  plenty  of  butter  over  them  ;  or,  better,  glaze 
and  cover  with  bread-crumbs.  Balls  of  fish-forcemeat, 
or  yolks  of  hard-boiled  e^s,  may  be  employed  to  enrich 
the  dish ;  or  for  plain  dinners,  potato-balls.  If  wanted 
very  high-dressed,  the  fish  may  be  laid  on  forcemeat,  and 
have  a  rich  sauce  poured  hot  over  them  when  baked. — 
Ohs,  These  may  be  served  yet  more  elegantly  a  la 
Matelotey  or  d  la  Genevoise. — See  French  Cookery, 

163.   SAUCES  FOR  fish-pies,  OR  FOR  FRESH  FISH. 

Take  a  quarter-pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  white  wine,  a  large  spoonful  of  oyster-liquor,  and 
another  of  catsup,  with  two  anchovies  boned  and  chopped. 
Boil  this  sauce  for  two  minutes,  and,  skimming  it,  pour  it 
hot  through  a  funnel  into  the  pie  when  to  be  served. 

164.  A  Provincial  way.  Take  a  half-pint  of  good  thick 
cream,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  soy,  two  anchovies  boned  and 


210  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

chopped,  and  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour.     Boil 
it  up  in  a  small  saucepan,  and  pour  it  hot  into  the  pie. 

165.    TO  BOIL  LOBSTERS  AND  CRABS. 

Choose  lobsters  and  crabs  by  their  weight,  alertness,  and 
fresh  smell.  The  tail  of  the  lobster,  when  fresh,  will  be 
stiff  and  springy ;  and  so  will  the  claws  of  the  crab.*  Fill 
a  large  pot  with  water,  and  make  it  brackish  with  salt  (on 
the  coast  sea- water  is  used  ;)  brush  and  put  in  the  lob- 
sters, tying  the  claws.  Take  off  the  scum,  of  which  a 
great  deal  will  be  thrown  up,  and  let  them  boil  from 
twenty  to  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  size.  If  boiled 
too  long,  the  flesh  will  get  thready  and  coarse  ;  if  not  long 
enough,  the  spawn  will  not  have  a  good  colour.  Wipe  the 
lobsters  with  a  damp  cloth,  then  rub  the  shell  wdth  butter, 
and  wipe  it  off  again.     Break  off  the  great  claws,  and 

*  Lobsters  and  crabs  are  in  high  season  from  March  till  October  \  so 
that  they  supply  the  place  of  oysters,  vhich  come  in  about  the  time 
lobsters  go  out  of  season.  Lobsters  are  held  in  great  esteem  by  gas- 
trologers  for  the  firmness,  purity,  and  flavour  of  their  flesh.  When 
they  find  refuge  in  the  rocky  fastnesses  of  the  deep  from  the  rapacity  of 
sharks  and  fishermen,  they  sometimes  attain  an  immense  size,  and  have 
been  found  from  eighteen  inches  to  upwards  of  two  feet  in  length. 
Apicius,  who  ought  to  be  the  patron  saint  of  epicures,  m%de  a  voyage  to 
the  coast  of  Africa  on  hearing  that  lobsters  of  an  unusually  large  size 
were  to  be  found  there  ;  and,  after  encountering  much  distress  at  sea, 
met  with  a  disappointment.  Very  large  lobsters  are  at  present  found 
on  the  coast  of  Orkney.  Some  naturalists  afBrm,  (Olaus  Magnus 
and  Gesnbr,)  that  in  the  Indian  seas,  and  on  the  wild  shores  of  Nor- 
way, lobsters  have  been  found  twelve  feet  in  length,  and  six  in  breadth, 
which  seize  mariners  in  their  terrible  embrace,  and,  dragging  them  into 
their  caverns,  devour  them.  However  this  may  be,  tne  lobsters  and 
crabs  for  being  devoured  are  best  when  of  the  middle  size,  and  when 
found  on  reefs  or  rocky  places.  They  are  obtained  on  many  parts  of  the 
British  coasts  ;  and  during  the  summer  months  there  is  generally  an 
abundant  supply  in  the  London  market.  In  places  where  crabs  are 
good  and  plentiful,  a  very  pretty  supper-plate  is  made  of  a  few  pairs  of 
tlie  claws  ;  and  an  excellent  substitute  for  lobster-sauce  is  prepared 
from  them,  particularly  from  the  small  delicate  species  known  by  the 
name  of  Cavies.  The  age  of  shell-fish  may,  it  is  said,  be  known,  as 
that  of  a  tree  is  by  the  bark,  from  the  roughness  and  incrustations 
which  gather  upon  the  surface.  Yet  if  lobsters  cast  their  shells  yearly, 
how  can  this  be  ?  At  any  rate,  avoid  the  crusted.  River  lobsters  are 
esteemed  more  delicate  than  sea  ones.  In  Germany,  lobsters  are  often 
boiled  alive  in  milk.  The  Germans  are  indeed  fond  of  cooking  all 
Horts  of  fish  in  milk,  and  of  marinading  in  milk. — Barbarous  cookery. — 
P.  T,    French  practice  is  refining  German  cookery. 


TO  POT  LOBSTERS,  &C.  21? 

6rack  them  at  the  joints  without  mangling.  Split  down 
the  tail,  and  dress  all  neatly  on  the  dish,  serving  the  fol- 
lowing sauce  : — The  hard  yolks  of  two  eggs  pounded  in  a 
mortar  with  a  little  vinegar,*and  the  soft  spawn  of  the  lob- 
ster. When  beaten  quite  smooth,  mix  this  thoroughly  with 
a  large  spoonful  of  salad  oil  and  a  glassful  of  the  best  vine- 
gar, a  tea-spoojiful  of  made-mustard,  and  a  little  cayenne 
and  salt.    For  crabs  the  same  sauce,  but  shorter  boiling. 

166.  TO  POT  LOBSTERS,  SHRIMPS,  AND  CRABS  FOR  SANDWICHES, 

DEVILED  BISCUITS,  &C. 

Crack  the  claws,  &c.  and  pick  out  the  meat.  If  for 
sandwiches,  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  pounded  mace,  white 
pepper,  cayenne,  nutmeg,  and  salt.  If  to  keep  for  eating, 
for  a  cold  relish,  mix  the  meat  neatly  cut  in  small  bits, 
and  the  coral  and  the  spawn,  in  a  regular  manner  in 
layers  or  alternate  pieces,  so  that  when  sliced  it  may  have 
that  marbled  appearance,  that  look  of  mosaic  work,  which 
80  much  commends  the  taste  of  the  cook.  Press  the  layers 
into  a  potting-can,  and  bake,  covered  with  butter  in  a  slow 
oven  for  about  a  half-hour.  When  cold,  take  off  the  but- 
ter, pack  the  meat  in  small  potting-cans,  and  pour  the 
butter  clarified  over  it. — Ohs,  What  is  left  of  this  butter 
will  be  very  relishing  for  sauces.  Sometimes  potted  lobster 
may  be  dressed  as  a  fricassee  in  a  Bechamel  or  cream- 
sauce,  or  eaten  cold.  Lobsters  for  sauce,  when  the  fish  are 
dear  or  out  of  season,  may  be  well  pi-eserved  in  this  way. 

To  pot  Shrimps*'— ^heW  as  many  fresh  shrimps  as  will 
fill  a  pint  basin.  Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  which  season  pretty  highly 
with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  particle  of  cayenne,  and  a  very 
little  nutmeg.  Let  the  shrimps  gently  heat  through,  and 
soak  in  the  butter  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  but  not  boil. 
Pot,  as  other  things,  in  very  small  shallow  potting-cans. 
When  cold,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over,  and  cover 
them  closely. 

N.B. — If  to  be  kept  for  sauce,  pot  at  least  three  pints  ; 
but  suit  the  seasonings  to  that  purpose,  and  put  no  nutmeg. 

167.    LOBSTER,  HAUT  GOUT, — BY  H.  JEKYLL,  ESQ. 

Pick  the  firm  meat  from  a  parboiled  lobster  or  two,  and 
take  also  the  inside,  if   not    thin  and   watery.     Season 


218  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

highly  with  white  pepper,  cayenne,  pounded  mace,  and 
cloves,  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Take  a  little  well-flavoured 
gravy — ^for  example,  the  jelly  of  roast  veal — a  few  tiny 
hits  of  hutter,  a  spoonful  of  soy,  or  walnut-catsup,  or  of 
any  favourite  flavoured  vinegar,  and  a  spoonful  of  red 
wine.  Stew  the  cut  lobster  in  this  sauce  for  a  few 
minutes. — Obs,  This  is  one  of  those  delicate  messes  which 
the  gourmet  loves  to  cook  for  himself  in  a  silver  dish  over 
a  spirit-lamp,  the  preparation  of  the  morsel  being  to  him 
the  better  part  of  it. 

168.   TO  BOAST  A  LOBSTER. 

When  parboiled,  rub  it  with  plenty  of  butter,  and  lay  it 
in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  before  the  fire  ;  baste  it  till  it  froth  ; 
dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  baste  again. 

169.    TO  BUTTER  LOBSTERS. 

Warm  the  meat  cut  into  nice  bits,  in  a  little  good  brown 
gravy.  Season  witli  mace,  nutmeg,  and  salt;  and  thicken 
with  butter  kneaded  in  brown  flour ;  or  dress  them  white 
in  clear  gravy  and  a  little  cream,  seasoning  with  white 
pepper  and  salt.  Prawns  and  shrimps  may  be  buttered  in 
the  same  way,  either  in  white  or  brown  sauce,  and  served 
on  toasted  sippets. 

170.  FRICASSEED  LOBSTER, — Afi  elegant  Dish, 

Dress  the  lobster  the  same  as  in  the  former  receipt,  but 
use  more  veal-gravy,  a  little  cream,  and  the  beat  yolk  of 
an  egg.  Dish  the  fricassee  in  the  middle  of  a  small  dish, 
and  place  the  claws  and  cut  tail  neatly  round  it ;  garnish 
with  pickled  beetroot  and  sliced  pickled  cucumber.  This 
is  just  a  lobster  salad. 

171.  LOBSTER  in  the  French  mode. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  dice.  Stew  it  in  a  little  rich 
sauce  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  it  in  the  shell,  which 
must  be  nicely  cleaned.  Strew  it  twice  over  with  sifted 
crumbs,  and  brown  with  a  salamander. — See  Lobster-sauce^ 
and  Sauce  for  Lobsters. 

172-3.  to  dress  crabs  hot  and  cold, 
And  the  Scotch  Partan-pie, 

Pick  the  meat  out  of  the  claws  and  body  of  two  crabs ; 
clean  the  shell  nicely,  and  return  the  meat  into  one,  first 
seasoning  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  nutmeg ;  a  few  bits 


CRABS-— PRAWNS,  CRAY-PISH.  210 

of  fresh  butter,  and  some  bread-crumbs.  A  half-glass  of 
vinegar,  beat  up  with  a  little  made-mustard,  may  be 
added,  and  a  small  quantity  of  salad-oil  substituted  for 
the  butter.  —  Brown  the  meat  when  laid  in  the  shell 
with  a  salamander.  This  is  the  preparation  which  the 
Original  thinks  so  charming  an  interlude  in  a  social 
dinner,  when  handed  round  with  the  fish. — To  dress  Crabs 
cold.  Pick  out  all  the  meat,  and  mixing  it  well  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salad-oil,  with  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and 
salt  to  taste,  serve  it  in  the  shell. — Ohs.  The  shell  of  one 
crab  will  contain  the  meat  of  two.  For  variety  the  meat 
may  be  cut  in  fillets,  the  small  claws  disposed  neatly 
round  the  dish,  and  the  contents  of  the  body  pounded, 
rubbed  through  a  sieve,  seasoned  and  stewed  in  a  little 
gravy,  before  being  returned  into  the  shell.  Shell-fisk  are 
picked  from  the  shells,  from  which  a  liquor  is  drawn  by 
breaking  or  boiling  them  in  water  and  a  little  white  wine 
and  vinegar,  with  salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  lemon-peel. 
Strain  and  thicken  this  liquor  ;  add  the  fish  :  stew  for  five 
minutes,  and  dish  over  slips  of  thin  toast. — See  Aspic 


174.  PRAWNS,  OR  CRAT-FISH, — An  Ornamental  Dish, 
Make  a  savoury  jelly  of  calf 's-feet  or  a  cow-heel,  a  piece 
of  skate,  or  trimmings  of  turbot,  with  horseradish,  lemon- 
peel,  an  onion,  and  a  piece  of  lean  bacon.  When  boiled 
to  a  jelly,  strain  it,  and  when  cold  take  off  the  fat,  keep  back 
the  sediment,  and  boil  it  up  with  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  the  whisked  whites  and  crushed 
shells  of  four  eggs.  Do  not  disturb  it  by  stirring.  When 
boiled,  let  it  settle  twenty  minutes,  and  run  it  through  a 
,  jelly-bag.  Pour  some  of  the  jelly  into  a  deep  dish ;  when 
it  has  firmed,  put  in  the  cray-fish  with  their  backs  down- 
wards, fill  up  the  dish  with  the  jelly,  and  when  cold,  turn 
the  whole  out.  This  jelly  may  be  poured  over  any  sort 
ef  shell-fish. — Obs,  A  lobster  in  savoury  jelly  was  one  of 
the  fantastic  dishes  of  the  old  school  of  cookery.  The 
process  was  very  elaborate,  and  it  seldom  succeeded  entirely; 
either  a  horn  was  broken  or  awry,  or  a  claw  snapt,  or  a 
fracture  of  the  tail  took  place,  to  the  utter  discomfiture  of 
the  cook  and  mortification  of  the  hostess. 


220 


CHAP.  VII. — ^FISH. 


175.  CAVIARE  AND  MOCK  CAVIARE. 

Caviare  must  be  bought.  The  best  is  prepared  from 
the  roe  of  stuigeon ;  but  roe  of  salmon,  pike,  &c.  are  also 
employed.  It  is  eaten  raWy  with  toasted  bread,  oil,  and 
vinegar,  or  lemon-juice. — A  good  imitation  is  thus  made  : 
Bone  a  few  anchovies,  and  chop  or  pound  them  in  a  mortar 
with  dried  parsley,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  little  cayenne,  salt, 
lemon-juice,  and  a  very  little  salad-oil.  Serve  on  toasted 
bread  or  toasted  biscuits.     See  Salmon-roe. 

176.    A  SALMAGUNDI. 

Wash  and  cut  open  at  the  breast  two  large  Dutch  or 
Lochfine  pickled  herrings ;  take  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
without  breaking  the  skin,  and  keep  on  the  head,  tails,  fins, 
&c.  Mince  the  fish  with  the  breast  of  a  cold  roast  chicken 
skinned,  a  couple  of  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  an  onion,  a 
boned  anchovy,  and  a  little  grated  ham  or  tongue.  Season 
with  salad-oil,  vinegar,  cayenne,  and  salt,  and  fill  up  the 
herring-skiiis,  so  that  they  may  look  plump  and  well 
shaped.  Garnish  with  scraped  horseradish,  and  serve 
mustard  with  the  dish. — Ohs.  An  ornamental  Salmagundi 
was  one  of  the  frippery  dishes  of  former  times.  This  edi- 
fice was  raised  on  a  china  bowl  reversed,  and  placed  in  the 
middle  of  a  dish,  crowned  with  what,  by  the  courtesy  of 
the  kitchen,  was  called  a  pine-apple,  made  of  fresh  butter. 
Around  were  laid,  stratum  above  stratum,  chopped  eggs, 
minced  herring  and  veal,  rasped  meat,  and  minced  parsley ; 
the  whole  surmounted  by  a  triumphal  arch  of  herring- 
bones, and  adorned  with  a  garnishing  of  barberries  and 
samphire. 

177.    TO  STEW  OYSTERS,*  COCKLES,  OR  MUSCLES. 

Plump  juicy  middle-sized  oysters  alone  will  stew  to 

*  Oysters  are  conceitedly  said  to  be  in  season  in  every  month  of  the 
year  that  has  an  r  in  its  name,  beginning  with  September  and  ending 
with  April;  but  the  season  in  many  places  extends  from  August  to  May. 
Every  city  has  its  favourite  oyster-bank.  In  London  the  Colchester 
and  Milton  oysters  are  held  in  most  esteem.  Edinburgh  has  her  '*  whis- 
kered Pandores,"  and  Dublin  the  Carlingford,  and  "  Powldoodies  of 
Burran."  Venice  is  celebrated  for  oysters.  Ancient  Rome  had  those 
of  Tarentum.  For  the  convenience  of  obtaining  a  ready  supply  of 
oysters,  they  are  often  transported  from  their  original  beds,  and  laid  down 
on  other  places  of  the  coast;  but  these  exiles  are  seldom  found  in  such 
perfection  as  those  which  are  called  natives;  that  is,  such  as  have  never 


OYSTIbBS*  221 

advantage.      When  opened,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  to 
harden  for  two  minutes,  which  will  enahle  you  to  beard 

been  rudelj  torn  from  their  native  beds  and  despatched  on  voyages  of 
profit.  Oysters,  -when  just  dredged,  may  he  so  packed  in  small  barrels 
as  to  keep  good  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  and  in  this  state  they  are  sent 
to  distant  places.  Oysters  may  be  dropped  ont  of  the  shell  into  a  bottle, 
and  kept  in  their  juice  for  a  little  time  by  pouring  in  a  little  olive-oil, 
corking  the  bottle  closely.  They  may  also  be  preserved  good  for  some 
time  hy  feeding;  and  custom,  which  brings  gounnanda  to  admire  game 
when  in  a  state  of  putridity,  has  taught  seme  Epicures  to  relish  the 
flavour  of  stale  oysters  better  than  those  recently  taken  from  the  beds. 
The  fresher  oysters  are,  they  aie  the  better;  but  when  to  be  kept,  lay 
them  bottom  downwai'ds  in  a  tub,  or  any  vessel  suited  to  the  quantity 
to  be  preserved,  and  cover  them  with  water  in  which  a  good  deal  of 
salt  is  dissolved.  In  this  manner  Apicius  sent  oysters  to  Tiberius 
when  he  was  in  Parthia.  Change  the  water  every  twelve  hours.  Most 
cooks  direct  that  this  delicate  animal  should  be  fed  with  oatmeal  or 
flour  sprinkled  in  water;  and  others,  on  the  principle  which  leads  a 
mother  of  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  to  give  her  new-born  darling  a  drop 
of  gin,  are  for  feeding  them  with  white  wine  and  bread-crumbs !  It  is 
said  by  those  who  have  the  charge  of  iSsh-ponds,  ^'  that  fish  will  eat 
nothing  but  what  comes  out  of  the  sea  ;^^  now,  though  we  are  not  per- 
fectly convinced  of  this  fact,  we  can  at  least  believe  that  salt-water 
gruel  is  not  over  well  suited  to  the  delicate  stomach  of  an  oyster.  Those 
large  fat  oysters  called  Pan  dores,  which  are  so  much  prized  in  Edinburgh, 
are  said  to  owe  their  superior  excellence  to  the  brackish  contents  of  the 
pans  of  the  adjacent  salt-works  of  Prestonpans  flowing  out  upon  the 
beds, — a  subject  this  worthy  the  serious  investigation  of  the  oyster- 
amateur,  who  may  here  receive  some  excellent  hints  for  fattening  and 
improving  the  quality  of  his  favourite  morsel.  We  have,  however, 
grave  doubts  of  this  theory. 

Shell-fish,  and  the  oyster  above  all,  have  'long  been  esteemed  highly 
restorative,  and  easy  of  digestion;  they  are  therefore  recommended  for 
the  food  of  the  delicate  and  declining,  and  of  those  whose  digestive 
powers  have  been  impaired  by  excess.  When  eaten  for  health,  an  oyster 
u  best  swallowed  with  its  own  liquor  the  moment  the  shell  is  opened ; 
or,  if  found  too  cold  for  the  stomach,  a  sprinkling  of  black  pepper  may 
be  allowed.  Vinegar  counteracts  the  effect  of  eating  oysters  to  enrich 
the  blood,  or  render  it  more  balsamic,  and  ought  therefore  to  be  avoided 
by  the  declining.  As  there  are  no  reasonable  bounds  to  oyster- eating, 
~  it  may  be  useful  to  notice  here,  that  when  too  many  of  these  or  other 
shell-fish  are  swallowed,  the  unpleasant  feeling  created  may,  it  is  said, 
be  removed  by  drinking  half  a  pint  of  hot  milk.  Consumptive  persons 
are  recommended  to  use  hot  milk  after  their  oysters  at  all  times, — 
we  cannot  tell  why. 

"  Oysters,"  says  the  learned  author  of  Tabella  CHbaria,  **  were  not 
common  at  Rome,  and  consequ^tly  fetched  there  a  very  high  price  ; 
yet  Macrobius  assures  us,  that  the  Roman  Pontiffs  never  failed  to 
have  them  every  day  on  their  tables."  From  the  fourth  century  to  the 
reign  of  Louis  XIY.  they  were  nearly  forgotten ;  but  they  soon  came 
again  into  vogue,  and  from  .that  time  have  kept  up  their  reputation. 
(gastronomers,  we  know,  can  swallow  from  three  to  four  dozen  before 


222  CHAP,  vii.— Pisfl. 

them  easily.  Wash  them  as  you  beard,  from  their  own 
liquor.     Keep  them  ho't.     Strain  the  liquor,  and*  after- 

dinner,  and  then  sit  down  and  eat  perhaps  better  than  if  they  had 
abstained  from  them.  They  clear  the  stomach  of  accidental  phlegm, 
increase  the  gastric  juices,  and  by  their  natural  coolness,  condense  the 
air  which  may  be  lixed  in  the  organs  of  digestion.  When  eood  they 
are  wholesome,  but  poisonous  when  bad. — **  The  Athenians  held  oysters 
in  great  esteem,^*  says  the  same  learned  authority  on  matters  of  the 
table  ;  and  we  may  add,  that  in  the  Modem  Athens  they  are  held  in 
equal  regard.  They  appear  to  have  fallen  into  disrepute  daring  the 
middle  ages.  Chaucer^s  begging  monks  mortified  themselves  upon  this 
mean  food. 

The  principal  taverns  of  the  Old  Town  of  Edinburgh  used  to  be  called 
Owter  TavernSf  in  honour  of  this  favourite  viand  ;  and  this  name  is 
still  kept  up  by  some  modern  places  of  genial  resort.  **  How  many 
celebrated  wits  and  bon-vivants,  now  quite  chop-fallen,"  said  Winter- 
blossom,  "  have  dived  into  the  dark  defiles  of  Closes  and  Wynds  in 
pursuit  of  this  delicacy,  and  of  the  wine,  the  wit,  the  son^^  that  gave  it 
zest !  I  have  heard  my  learned  and  facetious  friend,  the  late  Provost 
Grbbch — for  it  was  rather  before  my  day — say,  that  before  public 
amusements  were  much  known  in  our  Presbyterian  capital,  an  Oi/sler- 
ploi/,  which  always  included  music  and  a  little  dance,  was  the  delight 
of  the  younff  Ihshionables  of  both  sexes.^* 

The  municipal  authorities  of  Edinburgh  were  wont  to  pay  consider- 
able attention  to  "  The  feast  of  shells,^^  both  as  regarded  the  supply  and 
the  price, — and  we  hope  they  do  so  still.  At  the  commencement  of 
the  dredging  season,  a  voyage  was  boldly  undertaken  to  the  oyster-beds 
in  the  Frith  of  Forth  by  the  public  functionaries,  with  something  of 
the  solemnity  of  the  DooB  of  Venice  wedding  his  Adriatic  bnde. 
Even  the  plodding  fishermen  of  our  bleak  coast  seem  to  catch  inspira- 
tion from  this  delicate  (yreature.  Instead  of  the  whisky-inspiration 
which  supports  them  in  dragging  the  herring  nets,  or  throwing  the  cod- 
lines,  like  the  fishermen  of  the  Sicilian  seas,  they 

**  Sing  to  charm  the  spirits  of  the  deep," 

as  they  troll  the  dredging-nets.  There  is  indeed  a  poetical  notion  that 
the  oyster,  among  his  other  ge?itle  qualities,  is  inclined  to  minstrelsy-^ 

*'  The  Herring  loves  the  merry  moonlight, 

The  Mackerel  loves  the  wind, 
But  the  Offster  loves  the  dredging-sang, 

For  he  comes  of  gentle  kind." 

The  Nabob,  emulous  of  the  well-earned  fame  of  Dr.  Kitchiner, 
who  has  set  the  ancient  duet  between  Bubble  and  Squeak  with  proper 
accompaniments,  wished  to  embellish  this  volume  wiw  the  music  of  the 
*^  Dreaging-Song,^''  and  the  shrilling  recitative  of  the  oyster-wives,-^ 
those  Maids  of  Honour  to  the  "  Empress  of  the  North,"  who,  for  miles 
o£P,  are  heard  when  September  ev«nitigs  begin  to  shorten — cuckoos  of 
autumn — harbingers  of  winter — screaming  around  ''her  Mountain 
Throne*^ — drowning  the  summer  '*  babble  of  green  trees,*'  and  bringing 
back  the  genial  associations  of  "  rousing  nights,"  merry  taveili-snppers, 
and  "  a  quarter  of  a  hundred  after  the  play."  There  is  perhaps  no  spot 
on  earth  where  oysters  were  enjoyed  in  such  pwfection  as  at  the  head 


OYSTERS.  223 

4 

wards  allow  time  for  the  sediment  to  subside.  Put  it  into 
a  silver  or  block-tin  saucepan,  ii^ith  a  bit  of  mace,  and 
lemon-peel,  and  a  few  white  peppercorns,  a  little  butter 
kneaded  in  flour,  and  a  glass  of  sweet  cream,  or  of  Cham- 
pagne or  Madeira,  if  for  a  high  relish ;  in  which  case  a 
very  little  minced  eschalot,  or  onion  and  cayenne,  may  be 
added.  Let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  slip  in  the 
oysters,  simmer  very  gently  for  five  minutes,  lift  them 
with  a  silver  spoon  into  a  deep  hot  dish  with  toasted 
sippets  in  it,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  them. — Ohs,  A  sort 
of  deviled  stew  is  made  by  adding  more  seasonings  and  Par- 
mesan cheese  ;  which  high -flavoured  cheese  the  French 
employ  frequently  for  relishing  ragouts,  both  of  meat  and 
fish.  If  it  be  true  that  all  fish  require  silver  knives  and 
forks,  this  holds  peculiarly  of  oysters.  A  genuine  oyster- 
eater  rejects  all  additions, — wine,  eschalot,  lemon,  &c., 
are  alike  obnoxious  to  his  taste  for  the  native  juice. 

1?8.    TO  SCALLOP  OYSTERS  OR  COCKLES. 

Having  hardened,  bearded,  and  stewed  the  oysters,  as 
above  directed,  for  two  or   three  minutes  in  their  own 
cleared  juice,  have  some  bread-crumbs  moistened  with  the 
oyster-liquor,  a  good  piece  of  butter  melted,  and  a  little 
y  wine.    Place  some   of  this  in  scallop-shapes,  and  cover 

with  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  more  moistened  bread-crumbs, 
next  oysters,  and  finish  with  the  bread-crumbs  mixed  with 
a  little  grated  lemon-peel  and  finely-shred  parsley.  Put 
some  bits  of  butter  over  the  whole,  and  brown  in  a  Dutch 
oven,  or  with  a  salamander. 

l79.    TO  ORILL  OYSTERS. 

Blanch  them  in  a  stew-pan  in  their  own  juice,  beard 

of  the  Old  Fish  Market  Close  of  Edinburgh  ;'once, — alas  the  change ! 
— ^the  cynosure  of  all  the  taverns,  fish-creels,  and  booksellers^  shops  of 
that  learned  city:  the  place  where  eating,  learning,  and  law,  sat  enthroned 
side  by  side.  Here,  on  any  evening  from  October  till  March,  the 
oyster  gourmand  took  his  solitarv  stand,  and  enjoyed  his  delicious 
regale  in  its  utmost  earthly  perfection, — swallowed  alive  with  its  own 
gravy  the  moment  it  was  opened  by  the  fishwife  ;  who  operated  on  the 
shell  with  a  dexterity  of  manipulation,  a  rapidity  of  fingering,  that  no 
piano-forte  player  we  ever  saw  could  vie  with, — nothing  indeed  could 
be  compared  with  it  except  the  eager  voracity  of  those  genuine  lovers 
of  the  oyster,  to  whom  these  piscatory  Hebes  ministered.  A  precious 
remnant  of  genuine  oyster-eaters  still  haunt  this  favourite  spot.  Dr. 
Rbdgill  resolved  to  visit  it  on  the  first  night  of  his  sojourn  in  Edin- 
burgh.— Edit. 


\ 


224  CHAP.  VII. — visa, 

and  wash  them  out  of  this,  and  in  another  stew-pan  give 
them  a  toss  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley ;  but  do  not  let  them  boil.  Place  them  in  their 
own  shells,  previously  well  cleaned,  and  put  some  bits  of 
butter  over  them.  Place  the  shells  on  the  gridiron ;  two 
minutes  will  do  them.  Nutmeg  is  added  sometimes,  both 
to  scalloped  and  grilled  oysters;  but  we  do  not  approve 
of  it.     Two  may  be  put  in  one  shell. 

180.    TO  BROWN  OYSTERS  IN  THEIR  OWN  JUICE. 

Beard  and  wash  them  in  their  juice,  and  dip  them  one 
by  one  in  yolk  of  egg  beat  up  with  a  very  little  flour, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Brown  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  the 
frying-pan,  and  brown  the  oysters  nicely  over  a  quick 
fire  ;  draw  them  aside,  and  pour  their  juice  strained  into 
the  pan ;  thicken  it  with  a  very  little  flour  kneaded  in 
butter,  and  when  it  boils  stir  the  oysters  among  it  for  a 
few  minutes.  This  answers  for  brown  sauce  to  cod's 
heaS  and  shoulders,  and  for  calf  s  head,  &c. ;  but  when 
to  be  served  as  a  stew,  it  may  have  a  little  catsup,  bread- 
crumbs, and  minced  parsley  added  to  it.  Serve  in  a  hot 
hash-dish  on  toasted  sippets.  Lemon-peel  and  chopped 
parsley  will  be  an  improvement.  Muscles  and  cockles 
may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

181.    TO  serve  oysters  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Let  the  opener  stand  behind  the  eater's  chair,  who 
should  make  quick  and  clean  conveyance.  If  not  so 
placed,  wash,  brush,  and  open  and  beard  the  oysters,  and 
arrange  them  in  rows  on  a  tray ;  or  if  at  a  loss  for 
room,  heap  the  shells  in  piles :  the  fresher  from  the  sea, 
and  [the  more  recently  opened,  the  better.  The  French 
serve  lemon-juice  with  raw  oysters ;  we  serve  this  and 
also  vinegar,  pepper,  and  toasted  crusts. 

182.    TO  FICKLE  OYSTERS,  MUSCLES,  AND  COCKLES. 

Beard  and  wash  large  fat  native  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor.  Strain  it,  and  to  every  pint  of  it  put  a  elass  of 
white  wine,  mace,  nutmeg,  a'good  many  white  peppercorns, 
and  a  little  salt,  if  necessary.  Simmer  the  oysters  for  four 
or  five  minutes ;  but  never  let  them  boil.  Put  them  in  glass 
or  stone  jars.     Put  vinegar,  in  the  proportion  of  a  glass  to 


OYST£RS*  225 

the  pint,  to  the  liquor,  and  boil  it  up.  Skim  this  pickle  and 
pour  it  over  the  oysters ;  and  when  cold,  cork  them  and 
tie  them  close  up  with  bladder.  The  pickle-liquor  may 
be  boiled  up  occasionally,  suffered  to  cool,  and  poured  over 
them,  which  will  tend  to  preserve  the  oysters  :  a  spoonful 
of  it  will  be  a  great  addition  to  any  hash  or  common 
ragout.  Add  horseradish,  parsley,  and  a  little  thyme, 
if  you  like. — N.  B.  Muscles  and  cockles  in  the  same 
manner :  but  having  washed  well,  place  them  on  the  fire 
that  the  shells  may  open, — then  pick  them  out  and 
proceed  as  above,  using  pepper,  and  a  little  vinegar  only. 
^N^either  muscles  nor  cockles  should  be  kept  long. 
183.  TO  FRY  OTSTEBS  TO  OA.RN1SH  FISH,  ot  Oyster-frUters, 
Simmer  them  in  their  own  strained  liquor  for  three 
minutes ;  drain  them  ;  take  off  the  beards,  and,  dipping 
in  a  batter  of  egg,  flour,  and  white  pepper,  or  No.  882,  fry 
them  in  lard  or  butter  of  a  golden  brown.  The  above  is  the 
same  as  osfster-friHerSy  only  the  fritter-batter  must  be  stiffer, 
and  highly  seasoned  with  mace,  nutmeg,  and  lemon-peel. 
Oyster-haves^  a  fantastic  sort  of  dish,  are  made  as  oyster- 
patties,  filling  the  little  rolls  made  for  this  purpose  instead 
of  patty-cases.  See  Patties  and  Oyster-sauce^  Preserved 
Oysters^  &c.* 

*  Fish  is  a  favourite  food  "with  the  rich  and  luxurious,  but  it  is  not 
thought  to  possess  much  nourishment,  though  late  experiments  of  men 
of  science  in  France  go  far  to  overturn  this  opinion.     When  it  is  wished 


from  approaching  to  the  nature  of  meat  jelly,  are  the  most  nutritious, 
but  not  always  the  most  easily  digested.  Salmon  and  salmon-trout, 
turhot  and  sturgeon,  are  all  nutritious,  but  heavy.  Eels  are  nourishing, 
but  difficult  of  digestion.  Salt-water  fish  are  more  wholesome  than  the 
fish  of  slimy  Itukes  and  muddy  pools.  White  fish  are  more  easily 
digested  than  those  of  more  riclmess  and  flavour,  such  as  salmon  and 
herring  :  and,  if  less  fat,  are  at  least  as  nutritious.  Pike,  the  wcUer^ 
wolf,  is  firm  in  the  texture,  and  a  well-flavoured  and  wholesome,  though 
not  a  £ftvourite  fish.  Carp  and  tench  are  considered  wholesome.  Whit- 
ings, flounders,  and  soles,  being  of  a  moist  juicy  nature,  are  light,  and 
very  easy  of  digestion.  There  seems,  accordmg  to  Sir  John  Sinclair, 
to  be  a  general  understanding  among  mankind,  that  fish  ought  to  be 
eaten  with  Iratter  and  acids.  **  Fish  and  milk,^^  says  the  same  authority, 
*'  are  seldom  conjoined."  Brandy,  he  ouffht  to  have  added,  is  Latin  for 
a  salmon.  "  Fish,"  says  Sir  John,  "  do  not  agree  with  vegetables, 
except  the  potato."     Here  he  is  wrong  ;   the  people  in  Orkney  and 

P 


2'26  CHAP.  VII. — FISH. 

184.    TO  STEW  MUSCLES  FOR  FISH-SAUCE. 

Stew  them  as  oysters  in  their  own  strained  liquor,  with 
pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  vinegar,  carefully  picking  off 
the  beards,  which  are  disagreeable  and  unwholesome. 

185.    TO  MAKE  A  STORE  FISH-SAUCE.* 

To  an  English  pint  of  red  port  (Burgundy  or  claret  is 
better)  add  iiiteen  anchovies,  chopped  and  prepared  by 
steeping  in  vinegar  in  a  close-covered  vessel  for  a  week  ; 
add  to  this  a  stick  of  horseradish  scraped,  two  onions,  and 
a  handful  of  parsley  chopped,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lemon- 
thyme  stripped  of  the  stalks,  two  bay-leaves,  a  nutmeg,  and 
six  blades  of  mace  roughly  pounded,  nine  cloves,  and  a 
small  dessert-spoonful  of  black  pepper  bruised.  Pour  over 
these  ingredients  a  large  half -pint  of  port-wine  vinegar, 
and  simmer  slowly  in  a  silver  or  nice  block-tin  saucepan, 
or  earthen  pipkin,  till  the  bones  of  the  anchovies  are  dis- 
solved. Add  a  few  grains  of  cochineal  if  the  colour  is  not 
good.  Strain  the  liquor  through  a  hair-sieve,  and,  when 
cold,  bottle  it  for  use,  securing  the  vials  well  with  corks 

Shetland,  who  live  a  great  deal  both  on  fresh  and  salt  fish,  consume 
cabbage  in  large  quantities  with  it,  and  are  entirely  free  from  the  scurvy, 
and  those  cutaneous  diseases  which  overnm  the  people  of  the  Hebrides, 
who  raise  no  vegetables.  "Among  all  fish,'*  says  Lynch's  GKiide  to 
Health,  "  whether  of  sea  or  river,  the  middle-sized  are  the  best  ;  also 
those  that  have  not  hard  and  dry  flesh,  that  are  crisp  and  tender,  and 
have  many  scales  and  fins.**  The  meat  of  the  turtle,  the  sea-turtle,  is 
considered  not  only  as  a  high-ilavoured  expensive  delicacy,  but  as 
salubriotis  and  highly  nutritious,  though  those  sickly  half-dead  animals, 
which  are  spiced  and  drugged  for  city-banquets,  may  not  possess  these, 
qualities.  Fish  were  held  in  such  esteem  by  the  ancients,  that  persons 
constantly  rode  post  with  live  fish  to  Rome,  as  they  now  travel  oy  rail- 
way. 

Note  by  Dr.  Redgill. — "  It  is  strongly  recommended  to  those  who 
may,  like  me,  have  the  misfortune  to  swallow  a  fish-bone,  to  take  four 
grains  of  tartar  emetic  dissolved  in  warm  water,  and  immediately  after- 
wards the  beat  whites  of  four  eggs.  This  mess  will  instantly  coagulate, 
and  will  probably  unfix  the  bone  from  the  throat  or  stomach.  The 
'  bones  of  pike,  which  are  sharp  and  pronged,  and  so  very  hard  that  they 
will  not  dissolve  in  the  stomach,  ought  to  be  watchfully  avoided." 

*  The  Cleikum  Club  were  favoured  with  this  original  receipt  from 
an  intelligent  Highland  lady,  who  has  contributed  several  valuable 
original  receipts  to  this  volume.  This  sauce  boasts  neither  the  name 
of  Burgess  nor  Harvey  ;  but  we  would  advise  those  who  wish  to 
combine  economy  with  what  is  healthful  and  elegant,  to  make  a  fair 
trial  of  it. 


PRA.WNS — JOHN  BORT.  22? 

and  leather.  When  to  be  used  shake  the  vials  before 
pouring  out  the  sauce  ; — two  table-spoonfuls  will  impart 
a  high  flavour  to  four  ounces  of  beat  butter,  in  which  it 
must  be  simmered  for  a  minute  before  it  is  served.  For 
a  grunt  variety  of  Mskrsauces^  see  the  chapter  on  Sauces ; 
and  for  other  receipts  in  Msh^  see  French  Cookery, 

186.   TO  DRESS  PRAWNS,  FROM  BEAUVILUERS. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  prawns  ;  cover  a  dish  with 
a  large  cup  or  basin  reversed,  so  that  a  small  damask  nap- 
kin may  be  raised  like  an  octagon  upon  it.  Cover  this 
with  parsley,  and  dress  the  prawns  on  it  like  a  pyramid. 

187.   JOHN  DORY.* 

This  hideous-looking  but  delicious  fish  is  boiled  as  tur-* 
hot  or  brill.  Serve  with  anchovy-sauce  or  lobster-sauce, 
and  cover  with  plenty  of  green  parsley.  Maids  are  dressed 
like  skate  by  boiling,  or  parboiling,  and  then  broiling  or 
frying  as  in  No.  131,  and  are  served  with  lobster  or  caper 
sauce.  They  may  be  hung  a  few  days.  Brill  is  dressed 
and  sauced  like  turbot.  Slutd  is  usually  broiled.  French 
cooks  in  this  country  dress  the  jaune  d^oree  en  matelotCy  d  la 
Mollandaisey  and  in  various  complex  ways :  but  with  the 
rich,  fresh  flsh  of  the  British  seas  it  were  in  general  better, 
save  for  pampered  and  capricious  gourmands,  to  "  let  well 
alone."     Read  Nos.  120, 121, 123, 136,  and  French  Cookery. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

VEGETABLES  AND  ROOTS. 
The  earth  hath  roots ; 


The  hounteous  huswife,  Nature,  on  each  bush 

Lays  her  full  mess  before  ye.  Shaksperb. 

Fat  Coleworts  and  comforting  Pursline, 

Cold  Lettuce  and  refreshing  Rosemarine.  Spenser. 

Vegetables  are  at  their  best  when  just  on  the  eve  of 
being  ripe,  in  their  natural  season,  and  when  their  growth 

*  Of  all  unions,  QuiN,  a  rational  gourmandf  admired  that  of  "  deli- 
cat*  Ann-Chovy.  with  rich  John  Dory,'''* 


228  CHAP.  VUI. VE0ETABLBS  AND  ROOTS. 

has  neither  been  retarded,  nor  forced  on  by  artificial  means. 
The  vanity  which  induces  people  to  load  their  tables  with 
flavourless^  ill-coloured,  immature  vegetables^  is  ever 
punished  by  the  expense  and  disappointment  it  occasions. 
Much,  however,  has  been  judiciously  done  of  late  years,  both 
to  improve  the  quality,  to  hasten  the  season,  and  to  spread 
the  cultivation  of  vegetables.  Where  a  turnip,  a  cabbage, 
or  a  leek,  was  fifty  years  ago  the  only  vegetable  luxury 
found  on  a  country  gentleman's  table,  we  now  see  a  regu- 
lar succession  of  not  merely  brocoli,  cauliflower,  and  peas, 
but  of  the  more  recondite  asparagus,  sea-kale,  endive,  and 
artichoke ;  with  an  abundance  of  early  small  saladings. 
The  vegetable-markets  of  most  towns  have  within  the  same 
period  undergone  wonderful  improvement.  The  kinds  and 
quantity  of  articles  are  more  than  quadrupled,  and  the 
price,  except  for  early  or  forced  vegetables,  has  diminished 
more  than  half ;  so  that  a  healthful  and  harmless  luxury 
is  now  within  the  reach  of  all  classes.  Vegetables  of  the 
more  delicate  species  are  however  still  comparatively  such 
recent  acquaintances,  that,  even  at  tables  otherwise  well 
appointed,  they  are  seldom  seen  perfectly  well  dressed,  at 
least  in  so  far  as  regards  colour.  That  homely  chemistry, 
which  does  not  disdain  to  descend  to  the  kitchen,  has  in- 
deed of  late  considerably  assisted  the  cook  in  this  depart- 
ment ;  and  a  few  general  observations  will,  if  attended  to, 
supply  the  place  of  long  or  often-repeated  directionsfor  dress- 
ing particular  vegetables.  Vegetables  can  never  be  dressed 
too  fresh,  though  some  kinds,  such  as  French  beans  and  arti- 
chokes, will  keep  a  few  days,  and  by  care  all  will  keep 
for  some  time.  They  must,  after  being  carefully  cleared 
from  insects  and  decayed  leaves,  and  spoiled  parts,  be 
washed  in  plenty  of  water  ;  they  cannot  be  too  much 
refreshed.  Let  the  many-leaved  lie  in  salt  and  water, 
head  downwards,  till  they  are  put  to  boil.  This  simple 
method  will  bring  out  every  insect  that  may  lurk  in  the 
leaves.  If  to  be  kept  for  a  few  days,  place  the  stalk-ends 
of  cauliflower,  asparagus,  cucumbers,  &c.  in  water,  as  in 
keeping  cut  flowers  fresh.  To  preserve  their  beauty  vege- 
tables must  be  boiled  alfwe,  in  a  perfectly  clean,  well- tinned 
vessel,  and  in  abundance  of  water.     A  tea-spoonful  of  salt 


BROCOLI  AND  CAULIFLOWERS.  229 

of  wormwood,  or  a  bit  of  pearl  ashes,  or,  better,  soda,  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg,  will  not  only  preserve  the  green  colour, 
but  contribute  to  the  tenderness  of  cabbage,  savoys, '^  &c. 
A  bit  of  sugar  will  sometimes  be  useful.  Put  all  Tege- 
tablea  into  soft  boiling  water  with  plenty  of  salt ;  with 
hard  water  the  colour  will  keep  better,  but  the  quality  will 
not  improve.  Boll  fast,  and  do  not  coyer  the  vessel  if  you 
desire  to  preserve  the  fine  colour.  In  a  former  section  it 
was  recommended  to  boil  several  sorts  of  vegetables  and 
roots  with  the  meat,  if  salted,  with  which  they  are  to  be 
served^ ;  and  this,  though  it  may  injure  the  colour,  will 
certainly  improve  the  quality, — a  point  of  greater  unpor- 
tance.  All  vegetables  should  be  enough  boiled.  The 
cook's  rule  of  having  cauliflowers  crMp,t  is  as  inimical  to 
health  as  offensive  to  the  palate.  If  boiled  quickly,  which 
they  ought  to  be,  vegetables  are  ready  when  they  b^n 
to  sink  in  the  boiling  water,  and  they  will  spoil  every 
instant  after  that.  Meat  may  wait  a  little,  but  vegetables 
Avill  not,  particularly  the  cauliflower  kinds.  —  See  Frmck 
Cookery y  and  Batter  to  fry  vegetables^  No.  882. 

188.    BROCOLI  AND  CAULIFLOWERS. 

Choose  those  vegetables  close,  compact,  of  a  good  colour, 
and  from  five  to  eight  inches  in  diameter ;  strip  off  the 
outside  leaves,  and  trim  away  the  tops  of  the  inner  leaves; 
cut  off  the  stalk  at  the  bottom,  and  pare  away  the  outer 
husky  skin  from  it  and  the  branches.  Having  washed,  lay 
them,  head  downwards,  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  salt, 
which  will  bring  out  all  insects;  and  boil  them  on  a 
drainer  in  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt ;  some 
cooks  add  a  bit  of  sugar.  Skim  tiie  water  well ;  from  ten 
minutes  to  fifteen  will  boil  them.  When  the  stalks  are 
nearly  tender  they  are  ready.  If  some  heads  are  larger 
than  otliers,  put  in  the  large  ones  first ;  dish  as  one  large 
cauliflower,  and  if  sauce  is  wanted,  pour  melted  butter 
{sauce  blanche)  about  them.  —  Ohs\  Brocoli  is  sometimes 
served  at  supper,  like  asparagus,  on  a  toast.       Melted 

*  We  know  that  the  Romans  used  nitre  in  hoiling  vegetables. 

t  If  Gooks  and  ladies  will  have  their  cauliflowers  msp,  as  tiiey  call 
it,  why  not  serve  them  raw,  and  then  eaters  will  be  aware  of  them. — 
P.  T. 


230  CHAP.  Till. — VEGETABLES  AND  BOOTS. 

butter,  (often  with  a  veiy  little  vinegar,)  is  usnally  sent 
to  table  either  about  or  with  brocoli  and  cauliflower. 
Cauliflower  is  nicely  dressed  for  the  Second  Course  by 
pulling  it  into  handsome  branches,  parboiling  these,  and 
then  stewing  them  a  few  minutes  in  a  sauce  of  white  broth, 
seasoned  with  mace,  white  pepper,  and  salt,  and  thickened 
with  a  little  sweet  cream,  and  a  bit  of  butter  kneaded  in 
flour,  or  a  la  creme, — See  No.  698  and  onwards, 
189.  CAULiFLowBR  WITH  PARMESAN,  foT  the  Secotid  Churse, 
Strip  away  nearly  all  the  green  part,  boil,  and  dish, 
and  sauce  the  cauliflowers  with  sauce  blanche;  strew 
grated  Parmesan  over  it ;  then  gently  pour  a  little  melted 
butter,  then  strew  crumbs  and  more  grated  cheese  over 
all,  and  colour  with  a  salamander ;  pour  a  little  well- 
seasoned  velaute  or  fresh  butter,  well  mixed  with  grated 
Parmesan,  into  the  dish ;  or  butter  melted  in  cream  or 
milk  will  do. — Another  toay.  Boil  and  dish  the  cauli- 
flower, and  have  ready  to  pour  over  it  a  hot  sauce  made  of 
veloutSy  and  a  liaison  of  two  eggs  or  a  little  cream. 

190.    TO  DRESS  ASPARAGUS  AND  SEA-KALE. 

Scrape  the  stalks  of  asparagus  nicely  clean ;  throw 
them  into  cold  water ;  tie  them  up  in  bundles  of  about 
three  inches  thick,  with  tape  or  rushes  ;  cut  these  bundles 
of  equal  lengths,  leaving  about  an  inch  of  stalk,  and  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  of  quick-boiling  water,  with  salt. 
Notice  when  the  stalks  are  tender,  and  take  them  up  before 
they  lose  their  flavour  or  colour.  Have  ready,  nicely 
toasted,  a  slice  of  a  round  loaf ;  dip  it  for  a  few  seconds 
into  hot  water,  and,  squeezing,  lay  it  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish,  and  serve  the  asparagus  upon  it  with  the  heads  in- 
ward. Serve  beat  butter  in  a  boat,  with  a  little  vinegar, 
if  liked.  (See  No.  698.) — The  same  receipt  is  applicable 
to  sea-kahy  except  that  no  bread  is  served  with  it.*     It 

*  So  -well  was  the  eultiration  of  vegetables  uoderstood  by  the 
Romans,  that  at  Ravenna  asparagas  were  raised  for  the  tables  of  the 
great,  of  which  three  weighed  a  pound.  Nettle-tops,  alder-buds,  and 
cliver  were  among  their  pot-herbs.  Asparagus  is  thought  medicinal. 
This  vegetable  is  equally  a  favourite  in  Paris  and  London,  where 
enormous  quantities  of  it  are  consumed.  Young  buds  of  the  hop 
form  a  wholesome  substitute  fqr  asparagus.  —  See  French  Cookery  of 
Asparagus,  No.  6S8. 


A.RTICHOKES  AND  GREEN  PEAS.  231 

should  also  be  well  drained,  ''  and  dried  a  KtUe  before  the 
fire,"  says  Sir  George  Mackenzie,  it  may  also  be  par- 
boiled, drained  and  stewed  in  gravy ;  or  boiled,  and  have 
a  white  asLooe  ptmred  on  it.     See  Nos.  700  and  696. 

191.   TO  BOIL  ARTICHOKES. 

Strip  off  the  coarse  outer  leaves,  and  cut  oflP  the  stalks. 
Steep  and  wash  them  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  boil 
them  Avitli  the  tops  downwards,  keeping  up  the  boil  (add- 
ing boiling  water,  when  wanted,)  if  old  for  from  two  to 
three  hours.  Float  a  plate  over  them  to  keep  them  below 
the  water.  Try  a  leaf,  and  if  it  draw  out  easily  they  are 
done.  Drain  them,  and  serve  with  melted  butter  in 
small  cups,  a  very  little  in  each,  or  with  melted  butter  in 
a  sauce-boat. —  To  IVy,  Boil;  take  away  the  chokes, 
divide  the  bottoms,  dip  in  batter,  fry  and  serve  with 
melted  butter.  (See  No.  882.)  —  Artichoke  bottoms,  if 
dry,  may  be  soaked,  and  then  stewed  in  clear  broth,  and 
served  with  a  little  relishing  forcemeat  laid  in  each ;  or 
they  may  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water,  and  served  with 
cream-sauce.  They  are  frequently  used  to  enrich  ragouts, 
turtle-soups,  pies,  &c.  The  French  cut  the  bottoms  un- 
dressed, and  serve  them  as  salad,  dipping  the  slices  in  oil  or 
vinegar. — See  No.  701. 

192.   JERGSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

May  either  be  boiled  plain,  taken  up  the  moment  they 
are  done,  which  ^dll  be  from  twenty  minutes  to  a  half 
hour,  and  8erve4  with  melted  butter  poured  over  them,  or 
cooked  with  a  rich  white  or  brown  sauce*  They  are  very 
good  roasted ;  they  are  then  served  on  a  napkin,  and 
melted  butter  is  eaten  with  them.  They  are  also  mashed, 
and  used  in  pie  or  soup. 

193.    TO  BOIL  GREEN  PEAS. 

Peas  should  not  be  gathered,  or,  at  any  rate,  not 
shelled,  till  they  are  to  be  used.  The  younger  the  more 
delicate  ;  there  is  also  a  great  difference  in  the  kinds. 
When  the  water  boils  put  them  in  with  a  little  salt  and  a 
bit  of  sugar ;  skim,  and  let  them  boil  quickly  for  from 
fifteen  to  twenty-five  minutes,  trying  when  they  are 
ready.  Soda  helps  the  colour,  but  is  apt  to  soften  the 
peas  too  mt)ch.    Drain  them,  and  put  a  few  bits  of  frebh 


232  CHAP.  VIU. — ^VEGETABLES  AND  ROOTS. 

butter  in  the  dish,  turning  them  lightly  over  with  a  silver 
spoon  till  they  are  buttered.  Boil  a  few  sprigs  of  fresh 
mint  by  themselves ;  chop  these  fine,  and  lay  in  little 
heaps  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. — Obs,  Some  like  the 
flavour  of  mint  boiled  with  the  peas.  Buttered  peas 
are  rather  going  out  of  vogue,  but  buttering  is  a  good  old 
English  custom.  Dr.  Kitchiner  allows  ''  a  peck  of  peas 
to  two  hearty  pea-eaters."  At  this  rate  peas  for  a  large 
party  would  occupy  a  tolerable  space  on  a  modem  table. 
We  would,  however,  allow  a  peck  of  ycnng  peas  to  six 
persons.  Peas  are  sometimes  stewed  in  good  white  broth, 
with  sliced  lettuce  and  onion,  or  with  sliced  cucumber. 
These  must  be  nearly  cooked  before  the  peas  are  put  in. 
Thicken  the  broth  with  butter  kneaded  in  flour ;  season 
with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  sprig  of  mint,  to  be 
taken  out  before  the  stew  is  dished.  This  is  also  called 
pease-saucey  and  is  served  with  lamb,  veal,  chickens, 
ducklings,  giblets.  The  French  cook  peas  savourily 
with  bits  of  bacon  fried,  and  more  delicately  with  a 
thickening  of  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and  milk  or  cream  and 
butter.  The  colour  is  hurt,  but  the  flavour  of  peas  not 
quite  young  is  improved. — See  No.  699. 

194.    WINDSOR  AND  OTHER  BEANS. 

Boil  them  in  plenty  of  water  with  salt.  Serve  them 
with  or  under  bacon  or  pickled  pork.  Garnish  with 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve  parsley  and  butter.  Kidney 
or  American  beans,  and  Turkey  beans,  are  found  a  good 
substitute  for  potatoes,  and  are  now  constantly  imported. 
Soak  them  from  two  to  six  or  more  hours,  as  found 
necessary.  Boil,  and  when  done  drain  them,  and  steam 
for  a  few  minutes  by  the  fire,  adding  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
bit  of  butter.  Or,  after  boiling  they  may  be  stewed  with 
meat  or  in  gravy.  The  great  objection  to  the  red  kidney 
beans  is  their  colour,  which  offends  the  English  eye. 

195.    FRENCH  BEANS. 

Cut  ofl^  the  stalks,  and  strip  ofl^  the  strings.  If  the 
beans  are  old,  cut  them  in  two  slantwise.  Lay  them  in  a 
Aveak  pickle  of  salt  and  water  for  a  half-hour.  Put  them 
into  water  that  boils  quickly,  and  when  done,  which  will 
be  best  known  by  trying  them,  drain  them,  and  serve 


GREENS — 5P1NA6B.  233 

with  melted  butter. — Ohs.  When  old  and  large  they  are 
best  split,  as  well  as  cut  aslant.     Dish  in  a  pyramid. 

1 96.  TO  BOIL  CABBAQE,  GREENS,  SAVOYS,  AND  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Strip  off  the  coarse  outer  leaves,  and  pare  off  the  coarse 
husk  from  the  branch*  stalks ;  cut  off  the  stem  close  to  the 
bottom ;  wash  thoroughly,  and  put  on  with  plenty  of 
boiling  water  in  an  open  pot,  and  a  little  salt  of  woim- 
woods  Or  a  bit  of  soda.  Divide  half>grown  cabbages,  and 
quarter  lai^e  ones,  but  tie  up  to  keep  them  in  shape  till 
served.  See  that  they  be  well  covered  with  boiling  water. 
They  will  take  from  fifteen  minutes  to  an  hour,  or  more, 
according  to  the  age.  Small  Brussels  cabbage  are  boiled 
as  above,  and  arranged  in  the  dish  as  asparagus,  llie 
French  serve  a  white  sauce,  and  often  send  up  a  cruet  of 
oil  with  these  delicate  cabbages.  They  ai*e  also  served 
with  Maitre  d' Hotel  butter. 

197.    SPINAGE. 

This  delicate  vegetable  requires  very  careful  picking  and 
washing.  When  perfectly  clean,  put  it  into  plenty  of  boiling 
water  and  salt,  and  boil  very  quickly,  pressing  it  down  with 
a  wooden  spoon ;  ten  minutes  will  boil  it.  Then  squeeze 
it,  and  throw  it  into  a  great  quantity  of  cold  water,  to  pre* 
serve  the  colour  green.  Put  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  and  a 
little  salt  in  the  stew-pan,  and  returning  the  spinage,  well 
squeezed,  to  heat  up,  chop  it  fine.  Spread  it  smoothly  on 
the  dish,  and  scallop  with  a  spoon  ;  or  score  it  in  the  form 
of  diamonds,  or  sippets  ;  or  press  it  in  a  leaf>shaped  mould 
with  holes  to  drain  it,  and  turn  it  out.  Cream,  the  squeeze 
of  a  lemon,  and  mace,  or  nutmeg,  are  added,  by  some  cooks ; 
or  a  little  rich,  bland  gravy,  if  to  be  served  under  a  tongue, 
f ricandeau,  or  breast  of  lamb.  Spinage  is  often  served  with 
poached  eggs.  It  is  then  boiled  as  above,  pressed,  beat  up 
hot  with  butter  and  seasonings,  and  cut  in  the  form  of 
sippets,  with  an  e^^  served  over  each : — it  makes  a  pretty 
supper  dish.  Tender  young  spinage^  without  any  redun- 
dancy of  vegetable  Ule  in  it,  may  be  boiled  in  a  close 
vessel,  with  no  more  water  than  what  hangs  about  the 
leaves  when  washed ;  but  is  not  so  free  of  bitterness  as 
when  boiled  in  plenty  of  water.  A  little  sugar  may  be 
added  if  required :    the  French  serve  fried  sippets  with 


234  CHAP.  Vlir. — TEGBTABLES  AND  ROOTS. 

spinage  ;  and  their  Epinard  en  jus  is  excellent ;  for  which 
cook  as  above,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and  half  a 
pint  of  strong  jelly-gravy,  garnishing  with  fried  sippets 
glazed.  The  French  also  cook  endive  in  juice,  serving  it  as 
spinage  with  sippets,  or  poached  eggs. 

198.  TURNIPS, />^am. 

Of  turnips  there  are  many  varieties.  Choose  the  yellow, 
small,  iine-grained,  juicy,  Scottish  sorts.  Pare  oflF  all  that 
would  be  woody  and  stringy  when  boiled.  Boil  in  plenty 
of  water  for  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  nearly  two 
hours,  according  to  the  age  and  size.  Swedish,  four  hours. 
Drain  and  serve  them  whole,  or,  if  too  large,  divided,  or,  best 
of  all,  mashed.  A  bit  of  the  green  top  shoot  is  left  on 
young  turnips,  and  melted  butter  or  white  sauce  poured 
over  them.  Swedish  turnip-tops  are  very  delicate  greens 
when  young.  If  boiled  in  their  coats,  and  then  pared,  old 
turnips  will  be  more  juic3% 

199.  TO  DRESS  TURNIPS,  ybr  Me  Second  Course,  —  a  French 

Mode, 

Cut  them  into  cubes  or  oblong  forms,  or  scoop  them 
out  as  balls,  pears,  peaches,  plums,  &c.  and,  after  boiling 
in  salt  and  water  with  a  piece  of  butter,  sauce  them  witli 
melted  butter,  seasoning  them  with  nutmeg. — Ohs,  A  root- 
cutter  will  be  very  useful  here.  Turnips  are  handy  to  fill 
up  a  table  when  other  vegetables  are  not  to  be  got :  glazed 
or  browned  in  butter  or  lard,  turnips,  as  above,  make  an 
excellent  garnish  to  several  dishes. 

200.    TO  MASH  turnips. 

When  the  turnips  are  boiled  as  above  directed,  drain 
them  and  mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon  through  a 
colander.  Return  them  into  a  stew-pan  to  warm,  with  a 
piece  of  fresh  butter,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  When 
mixed  well  with  the  butter,  place  them  neatly  in  the  dish, 
and  mark  in  diamonds  or  sippets.  —  Ohs*  Our  Club  put  a 
little  powdered  ginger  to  their  mashed  turnips,  which  were 
studiously  chosen  of  the  yellow,  sweet,  juicy  sort,  for  which 
Scotland  is  celebrated,  —  that  kind  which,  in  the  days  of 
semi-barbarism,  were  served  raw,  as  a  delicate  whet  before 
dinner,  as  turnips  are  in  Russia  at  the  present  day.  The 
long-shaped  genuine  navet  of  France  is  of  superior  gout. 


CA.RROTS  AND  PARSNTPg.  236 

Mashed  turnips  to  be  eaten  with  boiled  fowl  or  veal,  or 
the  more  insipid  meats,  are  considerably  improved  by  a 
seasoning  of  ginger,  which,  besides,  tends  to  correct  the 
flatulent  properties  of  this  esculent.  Yellow  turnips, 
mashed  and  eaten  with  milk,  are  recommended  in  scurvy 
and  consumption.  Physicians  recommend  turnips  and 
carrots  to  be  boiled  separately  in  three  successive  waters, 
drained  well,  mashed  together  with  new  milk,  and  salt. 
Dr.  Anthony  Todd  Thomson  recommends  this  dish  strenu- 
ously to  convalescents  restricted  to  vegetable  diet,  and 
prefers  it  himself  to  any  other  kind  of  vegetable  food. 
Turnips  eat  well  with  boiled  or  roasted  mutton,  and  make 
an  excellent  purie^  over  which  to  serve  boiled  scrag  or  leg 
of  mutton,  neck  of  lamb,  tongue,  &c. 

201.  Carrots  and  Parsnips.  —  These  roots,  if  old,  re- 
quire long  boiling.  Wash  young  carrots,  and  scrub  them 
with  a  hard  brush.  Old  ones  must  be  scraped  very 
lightly,  remembering  that  the  red  outside  is  far  the  best 
of  the  carrot,  and  that  alone  used  in  French  cookery. 
When  boiled,  have  the  outside  scurf  rubbed  off  with  a 
coarse  towel.  They  are  served  with  boiled  mutton  or 
beef,  whether  fresh  or  salted.  If  large,  they  may  be 
sliced  across.  —  Ohs»  Some  persons  like  cold  carrots  with 
cold  beef.  Parsnips  may  either  be  mashed  with  butter 
or  cream,  served  whole,  or,  if  large,  quartered.  Turnips, 
carrots,  and  parsnips,  warm  up  very  well  in  a  vessel 
plunged  in  boiling  water. 

202.  Carrots,  the  Flemish  way, — Prepare  (after  boiling) 
in  nice  fonns,  as  stars,  wheels,  &c.  and  stew  them  in 
melted  butter,  with  minced  parsley,  young  onions,  salt, 
and  pepper.  —  N.B.  This  Vandyhing  throws  away  the  best 
of  the  root,  unless  you  keep  it  for  some  other  use. 

203.  Fried  Gourds,  —  Kitchiner.  —  Cut  ^y^  or  six 
gourds  in  quarters,  take  ofi^  the  skin  and  pulp,  stew  them 
in  the  same  manner  as  for  table  ;  when  done,  drain  them 
quite  dry,  beat  up  an  t%%^  and  dip  the  gourds  in  it,  and 
cover  them  well  over  with  bread  ci-umbs;  make  some 
hogs'  lard  hot,  and  fry  them  a  nice  light  colour,  throw  a 
little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  serve  quite  dry. 

204.  Another  way.  —  Take  six  or  eight  small  gourds 


236  CHAP.  VIII. — ^VEGETABLES  AND  ROOTS. 

as  near  of  a  size  as  possible,  slice  them  with  a  cucumber- 
slice,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  then  fry  them  in  very  hot 
lard  ;  throw  over  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  upon 
a  napkin. — Ohs.  These  vegetables  are  also  dressed  in  milk, 
with  batter  and  seasonings. 

205.  Skirrets  and  Sconzonsras  are  boiled,  and  served 
with  melted  butter. 

ScoNZONERA. — Scrape  off  the  rind.  Steep  in  hot  water, 
to  extract  part  of  the  bitter,  and  then  boil  or  stew  as 
carrots. 

206.  Tomatas,  or  Love- Apples. — These  have  rather  gone 
down  in  France,  but  are,  just  like  other  fashions  when  at 
ebb  there,  coming  into  vogue  amongst  us. — To  stew.  Place  a 
layer  in  a  nice  saucepan,  and  pour  good  gravy  over  them 
till  half  covered  ;  stew  very  gently  ;  turn  once,  finish  the 
stewing ;  dish  them,  thicken  the  gravy  with  arrow-root, 
or  rice-flour  and  cream  ;  or  plain  with  flour  and  butter  : 
pour  it  over  them. —  Tcmatas  roasted*  Prepare  them  by 
cutting  off  the  stalks,  and  roast  in  a  Dutch  oven,  turning 
them  occasionally  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  —  Tomatas 
farced.  Cut  open  the  top  of  seven  with  a  cutter,  and  gently 
scoop  out  the  inside :  press  the  pulp  through  a  small 
sieve,  mixing  it  with  a  small  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  and 
two  ounces  of  butter  in  bits,  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
cayenne.  Mix  this  thoroughly,  fill  the  tomatas  mode- 
rately, and  bake  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  To  this, 
French  cooks  add  yolks  of  eggs,  or  grated  ham,  minced 
mushroom,  or  whatever  is  preferred  for  a  relishing  farce, 
which  must  be  thoroughly  pounded.  However  they  are 
cooked  choose  well-shaped  tomatas.  Dished  with  five 
round  and  two  above,  they  make  either  a  pretty  dish,  or  a 
garnish  to  stewed  beef,  boiled  mutton  or  veal,  and 
cairs  head.  —  A  PurH  of  tomatas  is  made  by  dividing, 
picking  out  the  seeds,  and  boiling  them  witli  good  gravy,  an 
onion  or  two,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  pulping  and  mixing 
down  the  puree  with  sufficient  cream  (or  milk)  and  rice- 
flour.  Tomatas  are  also  used  both  in  sauces  and  soups,  and 
are  pickled. — See  Tomtaa-Catsup, 

207.  beetroots. 
Though  chiefly  used  in  winter  salads,  or  for  picklmg. 


BEEXKOOTS  AND  ONIONS.  237 

beetroots  may  be  dressed  the  same  as  parsnips,  and  served 
as  a  garnishing  with  boiled  beef,  or  salt  fish.  Wash,  and 
without  touching  with  the  knife,  boil  them  whole  in  boil- 
ing water,  or  bake  and  skin  them.  If  broken,  the  colour 
will  fly.  Parboiled  beetroot  may  be  sliced,  and  stewed 
with  small  onions  in  a  little  cream  or  gravy  thickened, 
with  seasonings  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Dish  the 
slices  of  beetroot  with  the  small  onions  round  them. 
Beetroot,  besides  being  wholesome  and  palatable,  is  orna- 
mental in  salads,  and  for  garnishing ;  and  makes  a  cheap 
and  beautiful  common  pickle.  In  England  it  is  often 
served  along  with  cheese  cold  and  sliced,  with  a  little 
vinegar,  or  Chili  vinegar,  poured  over.  The  leaves  of  the 
white  beet  are  used  as  spinage.  The  juice  of  the  red  is 
used  to  colour  cei*tain  soups  and  sauces,  by  mifyar  cooks. 

208.   TO  STBW  AND  ROAST  ONIONS. 

Scald  and  peel  a  dozen  middle-sized,  or  two  or  three 
mild  Spanish  onions.  If  old  and  acrid,  parboil  them,  and 
then  stew  very  slowly  for  nearly  an  hour  in  good  veal  or 
beef  broth,  with  white  pepper  and  salt ;  thicken  the  sauce 
with  a  little  white  roux  or  butter  kneaded  in  flour,  and, 
dishing  the  onions  in  a  small  hash-dish,  pour  it  over  them. 
A  little  mushroom-catsup  may  be  added,  or  they  may  be 
browned.  Onions  are  roasted  before  the  fire  in  their  skins, 
peeled,  and  served  with  cold  butter  and  salt.  They  are  in 
Scotland  served  with  roasted  goose,  or  pork ;  and  eaten 
either  alone  or  with  roasted  potatoes,  or  red  or  pickled 
herrings.  In  the  latter  case,  we  would  recommend  mus- 
tard as  well  as  butter.  —  Obs»  Stewed  and  roasted  onions 
used  to  be  a  favourite  supper-dish  in  Scotland,  and  were 
reckoned  medicinal.  The  onions  were  stewed  (after  par- 
boiling) in  a  butter-sauce,  to  which  cream  was  put, «.  e, 
the  Sauce  blanche  of  France.*  Onions  may  be  farced,  as 
may  several  sorts  of  vegetables,  with  a  farce  of  meat,  fish, 
or  poultry. — See  No.  206. 

209.    VEGETABLE  CURRIE. 

Boil,  strain,  and  mash  delicate  greens  or  cabbage  ;  stew 
them  in  butter,  with  currie-powder  to  taste,  rubbed  down 

*  **  We  now,''  said  Touchwood,  "  rarely  see  a  dish  of  onions  ;  yet 
I  have  much  to  say  in  behalf  of  this  homely  patriarchal  relish,  which  \u 


2SS  CHAP.  VIII. — ^VBOBtABLES  AND  ROOTS. 

in  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper.  A  currie  of  spinage  is 
made  by  the  addition  of  vinegar  or  sorrel,  and  onions. 
The  sauce  is  veal-gravy  or  butter,  and  either  bits  of  meat, 
or,  if  tnaiffrey  prawns,  cockles,  or  oysters,  are  added  to  the 
stew. 

210.    TO  STEW  CUCUMBERS  AND  CELERY. 

Pare  fresh  cucumbers,  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  and 
take  out  the  seeds  ;  or,  if  small,  divide  them  the  long  way. 
Slice  onions  in  the  proportion  of  one  to  every  two  cucum- 
bers. Stew  these  together  in  a  little  good  broth,  or  in 
melted  butter,  with  cayenne,  pepper,  and  salt.  Thicken 
the  sauce  with  a  bit  of  butter  kneaded  in  flour,  and,  after 
dishing  the  cucumbers,  skim  it,  and  pour  it  over  them. 
To  gtew  celery,  clean  and  cut  the  heads  (the*  younger  the 
more  delicate)  in  three-inch  lengths.  Stew  them  till 
tender  in  melted  butter.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  a  good 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  add  a  quarter-pint  of  sweet 
cream,  and  season  with  pepper,  mace,  and  salt. 

The  French  put  grated  nutmeg  or  minced  parsley  to 
stews  of  cucumber,  and  thicken  the  sauce  with  beat  yolks 

of  so  much  consequence  in  giving  gtisto  to  the  food  of  those  who  cannot 
reach  the  costly  compound  essences  that  are  gradually  subverting 
it  in  the  kitchens  of  the  rich.  In  the  early  part  of  the  last  century 
SwiPT  sung — 

'  There  is,  in  every  Cook's  opinion. 
No  savoury  dish  without  an  onion ; ' 

and  added,  for  the  benefit  of  youthful  gourmands, — 

*  But  lest  your  kissing  should  be  spoil'd. 
The  onion  must  be  thoroughly  boil'd/— 

a  precaution  of  no  great  moment,  however,  as  the  period  when  a  man 
begins  to  pa^  much  attention  to  palatic  enjoyments  is  nearly  about  the 
same  at  which  the  taint  of  his  breath  becomes  an  affair  of  less  con- 
cernment either  to  himself  or  others,  provided  he  keep  at  a  respectful 
distance.  It  may  be  remarked,  by  the  way,  that  one  sign  of  the  pre- 
cocity of  the  youth  of  the  age,  is  their  beginning  to  talk  of  the  business 
of  the  table  at  the  years  when  their  fathers  were  still  upon  their  bread 
and  milk." — *^  But  return  we  to  our  onion,"  said  Jbkyll  to  the  Nabob, 
after  delivering  this  note.  "  Well,  sir  ? — ^and  what  has  consigned  this 
prime  root  to  Parisian  restaurateurs  and  London  soup-brewers,  who 
are  still  cunning  enough  in  their  art  to  employ  its  savoury,  cordial,  and 
stimulating  qualities,  hut  this  same  pouncet-box  dread  of  the  manly 
scent  of  a  garlic  breath,  —  another  root,  by  the  way,  most  vilely  ne- 
glected ?  *  Of  all  plants,'  says  Sir  William  Temple,*  garlic  affords 
the  most  nourishment,  and  supplies  the  best  roirits  to  those  who  eat 
little  flesh.*    It  clears  phlegm,  dissipates  cold  slimy  humours." 


RED  CABBAGE — SORREL — MUSHROOMS.  2S9 

of  eggs.  Nutmeg  is  a  suitable  condiment  with  this  watery 
vegetable,  so  is  cayenne.  —  Ohs.  Stewed  cucumbers  are 
frequently  served  with  lamb-steaks,  mutton-chops,  or 
rump-steaks,  and  with  mutton-rumps  and  kidneys.  Some 
cooks  brown  the  cucumbers  and  onions  before  stewing. 
These  vegetable  stews  may  be  made  into  the  />«r^,  or 
sauces  bearing  their  respective  names,  by  cutting  the 
celery  in  smaller  bits,  and  by  stewing  the  cucumbers  to  a 
mash,  and  pressing  through  a  sieve.  If  to  serve 
Avith  veal,  veal-kidneys,  or  fowls,  celery  may  in  cooking  be 
enriched  with  ham  and  seasoning  herbs. — ^See  240. 

211.    TO  STEW  RED  CABBAGE. 

Wash,  pick,  and  shred  what  will  fill  a  large  pint-basin. 
Melt  some  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  in  the  cabbage 
yv\\h  only  the  water  that  hangs  about  it,  pepper,  cayenne, 
salt,  and  an  onion  sliced.  Stew  this,  keeping  the  sauce- 
pan close  covered,  but  tossing  it ;  and  when  just  ready, 
add  a  glass  of  vinegar,  which  should  just  boil  up.  French 
cooks  add  a  bay-leaf  and  two  cloves  stuck  in  an  onion, 
which  must  be  picked  out  before  serving.  Fried  sausages 
are  served  on  this  preparation  ;  or  it  may  be  served  with 
houillL* 

212.    TO  STEW  SORREL  FOR  ROASTS  OF  VEAL,  LAMB, 

FRICANDEAUX,  &C. 

Wash  and  simmer  it  in  an  unglazed  earthen  or  stone 
jar,  very  slowly,  and  beat  it  up  with  a  good  piece  of 
butter,  or  a  little  salad-oil.  Add  cayenne,  pepper,  and 
salt.      A  mixture  of  spinage   and  sorrel  is   dressed   as 

*  The  cabbage  tribe  has  ever  been  a  first-rate  favourite  with  writers 
on  diet,  whether  ancient  or  modern.  Volumes  have  been  composed, 
not  merely  in  praise  of  the  demulcent  cauliflower  and  brocoli,  but  of 
the  common  white  and  red  cabbage.  Besides  their  use  in  soups,  and 
in  correcting  the  putrescent  qualities  of  animal  food,  thev  are  said  to 
be  correctives  of  the  consequences  of  excess  in  wine.  Arbutmnot 
says,  the  juice  of  red  cabbage  baked,  is,  with  the  addition  of  honey,  an 
excellent  pectoral ;  and  red  cabbage  stewed  in  veal-broth,  with  calTs 
lights  and  pistachios,  is,  on  th9  Continent,  esteemed  a  specific  in  con- 
sumption, —  a  malady,  by  the  way,  for  which  a  remedy  has  been  dis- 
covered in  chickens,  oysters,  lellies,  fruits,  and  every  favourite  aliment, 
■ —  in  short,  in  whatever  the  discoverer  fancies  he  himself  could  thrive 
on,  and  live  for  ever.  These  discoveries  are,  we  take  it,  generally 
made  on  the  principle  of  the  Irish  corpse-howl  or  UUaloo, — 

«•  Why  did  you  die  ?  why  did  you  die  ? 

Had  you  not  plenty  of  butter-milk  and  potatoes  V* 


240  CIIAP.  VIII.— TEOETABLBS  AND  ROOTS. 

spinage,  where  sorrel  alone  might  he  thought  too  acid. 
The  French  cook  it  in  jelly  gravy,  thicken  with  eggs,  and 
serve  with  poached  eggs. 

213.   MUSHROOMS. 

So  many  fatal  accidents  happen  every  season  from  t]ie 
use  of  poisonous  mushrooms,  and  it  is  so  difficult  to 
distinguish  between  the  edible  kinds  and  those  that  are 
deleterious,  that  we  would  advise  our  readers  either  to 
eat  none  that  they  have  not  examined  for  themselves,  or 
to  be  contented  with  what  are  raised  in  artificial  beds, 
though  the  flavour  of  these  is  as  inferior  to  that  of  the 
wild  mushrooms  as  a  coop-fed  chicken  is  to  the  heath- 
cock.^  The  small  cultivated  buttons  are  however  excel- 
lent for  pickling. 


*  Naturalists  enumerate  nearly  five  hundred  kinds  of  mushrooms 
found  in  England  alone,  and  of  these  there  are  perhaps  not  ten  sorts 
ascertained  to  be  fit  for  human  food.  Mushrooms,  with  coarse  bread, 
form  the  chief  sustenance  of  the  inhabitants  of  several  of  the  Russian 
provinces,  during  a  considerable  part  of  the  year.  They  are  indeed 
mely  eaten  every  where  on  the  Continent,  where  their  properties  seem 
to  be  better  understood  than  in  England.  In  Russia  they  are  salted, 
dried,  or  dressed  fresh,  and  eaten  with  olive-oil  by  the  better  orders, 
while  the  poorer  classes  use  hemp-oil.  They  are  also  broiled,  roasted 
in  the  ashes,  stewed  and  fried,  served  with  meat,  chopped  with  potatoes, 
turnips,  carrots,  &c.,  and  form  a  relishing  ingredient  in  ragouts  and 
sauces.  The  following  is  a  tolerably  accurate  description  of  the  whole- 
some, or,  we  should  rather  say,  the  unsiispected  sorts;  for,  notwith- 
standing this  extensive  Russian  practice,  we  question  whether  mush- 
rooms in  substance  are  ever  salubrious.  "  The  eatable  mushrooms  first 
appear  very  small,  and  of  a  round  form,  on  a  little  stalk.  They  grow 
very  fast,  and  the  upper  part  and  stalk  are  white ;  as  the  size  increases, 
the  under  part  gradually  opens,  and  shows  a  fringy  fur,  of  a  very  fine 
salmon-colour,  which  continues  more  or  less  till  the  mushroom  is  a 
tolerable  size,  and  then  turns  to  a  dark  brown.  These  marks  should  be 
attended  to ;  and,  likewise,  whether  the  skin  can  bo  easily  parted  from 
the  edges  and  middle.  Those  which  have  a  white  or  yellow  fur  should 
be  carefully  avoided,  though  many  of  them  have  the  same  smell,  but 
not  so  strong  as  the  right  sort."**  The  most  delicate  mushrooms  are 
those  found  on  old  close-cropt  pastures,  or  open  downs  by  the  sea-shore, 
where  cattle  browse.  Musnrooms  of  j^ood  quality  are  nlentiiul  in  Ire- 
land. It  is  of  that  country  Bacon  said  long  a^o,  **  Ireland  is  the  soil 
where  mushrooms  and  upstart  weeds  spring  up  in  a  night  and  do  chiefly 
prosper." 

Picking  this  delicate  and  singular  food  forms  an  agreeable  rustic  amuse- 
ment ;  and  the  ladies  or  idle  gentlemen  of  any  family  may  easily  in 
their  walks  rather  edible  mushrooms  for  pickling,  catsup,  powder,  and 
for  dressing  fresh.  The  Romans,  who  were  delicate  in  their  eating, 
prepared  their  mushrooms  at  table  with  an  amber  or  silver  knife. 


KUSHBOOKS.  241 

Mushrooms  are  safest  when  pickled  or  made  into  catsup, 
because  they  are  then  used  only  in  small  quantities,  and 
their  pernicious  properties  are  corrected  by  the  acids  and 
spices  employed  to  preserve  them.  When  good,  they 
approach  nearer  to  animal  substances  than  any  plant 
whatever,  both  in  their  texture  and  flavour,  and  in  the 
gravy  with  which  they  abound.  Skilful  cooks  have  been 
known  to  impose  a  ragout  of  mushrooms  for  a  meat 
ragout,  even  on  practised  epicures ;  nor  do  we  know  any 
one  flavouring  ingredient  that  the  cook  could  less  spare 
than  mushroom-catsup.  We  by  no  means,  therefore,  wish 
to  proscribe  this  delicacy,  but  to  caution  our  readers  not 
merely  against  mushrooms  of  suspicious  quality,  but  also 
against  consuming  many  at  once,  however  temptingly 
they  may  be  dressed. 
214.  TO  STEW  OB  RAGOUT  MUSHROOM^  in  White  or  Broton 

Sauce, 

Gather  the  laigest  button-mushrooms,  or  the  smallest 
flaps.  Trim  away  all  that  is  mouldy  or  spoiled,  rub  with 
flannel,  wash  lightly,  drain  dry  in  the  folds  of  a  towel, 
and  when  quite  dry,  for  every  half-pint  have  prepared  an 
ounce  of  butter  slightly  browned.  Place  the  mushrooms 
in  this  for  five  minutes,  cooking  them  equally  by  tossing  in 
the  saucepan.     Season  with  salt,  mace,  and  cayenne. 

Another  iw»y. — Stew  them  in  their  own  gravy,  in  a  silver 
or  earthen  vessel,  with  a  very  small  quantity  of  water 
only,  to  prevent  burning.  When  nearly  done,  put  in  a 
large  spoonful  of  sweet  cream,  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Lemon-juice  is 
employed  to  whiten  them.  The  French  thicken  this  ragout 
with  beat  yolks  of  q^^  ;  and  this  is  good  practice.  — 
Mushrooms  are  stewed  hroum  in  good  brown  gravy,  thickened 
and  seasoned  as  above,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  nut- 

The  following  test  of  the  qualities  of  mushrooms  U  giTen,  though  we 
do  not  vouch  for  its  accuracy : — **  Boil  a  peeled  onion  with  the  mush- 
rooms ;  if  it  remain  white,  they  are  safe;  if  it  become  hlack  or  livid, 
there  are  had  ones  among  them/*  It  is  said,  if  the  water  in  which 
mushrooms  are  steeped,  or  the  broken  parts  of  them,  be  poured  upon 
an  old  bed,  innumerable  young  ones  will  spring  up.  The  mushrooms 
raised  in  beds  are  sometimes  of  unwholesome  kinds,  as  well  as  the  wild 
ones.    No  sort  of  mushroom  wiU  poison  a  Frenchman, — P.  S.  T. 


242  CHAP.  VIII. — T£0£TABLCS.AND  ROOTS. 

raeg.  A  piece  of  ham  may  be  put  to  a  brown  ra^foui  of 
muBhroomB,  fine  herbs,  onions,  and  parsley,  keeping  in 
▼iew  what  they  have  to  accompany. 
214.'  TO  GRILL  MusHROOKB,  oT  Mushrooms  d  la  Bordel€M» 
Choose  lai^,  firm,  fresh-gathered  fiaps.  Skin  them^ 
and  lightly  Bcore  the  under  side.  Pnt  them  into  an 
earthen  dish,  and  baste  them  ivith  oil  or  melted  bntter^ 
and  strew  pepper  and  salt  over  them.  When  they  have 
been  steeped  in  this  marinade  for  an  hour  or  more,  broil 
them  on  both  sides  for  ten  minutes  over  a  clear  fire,  and 
serve  them  with  a  sauce  of  oil  or  melted  butter,  in  which 
are  parsley,  young  osion^  a  little  garlic,  all  minced,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  poured  over  them  ;  or  they  may  be 
done  in  the  oven,  have  a  sauce  drawn  from  their  trimmings 
and  stalks,  and  flavoured,  as  No.  214*  See  No.  267* 
215.  TO  STEW  TRUFFLES  IN  C!HAMPA0Kfi,  OT  strw  in  cromions. 
Soak  in  warm  water  for  an  hour,  and  then  clean  with  a 
scrubbing-brush  a  dozen  black  truffles,  picking  out  the 
eyes.  Wash  thoroughly.  Have  a  stew-pan  ready,  covered 
in  the  bottom  with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  a  sliced  carrot  and. 
turnip^  two  or  three  onions,  and  a  fagot  of  parsley,  thyme, 
a  bay-leaf,  six  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace.^  Lay  in  the 
truffles  and  half  cover  them  with  good  white  stock,  and 
when  they  have  simmered  half  an  hour,  add  a  pint  of 
champagne,  and  simmer  a  half  hour  more,  keeping  the 
lid  very  close.  Let  them  cool:  place  the  stew-pan  in 
ice  witi  a  weight  over  the  cover.  Serve  on  a  napkin  : 
serve  the  cold  liquor  strained  in  a  sauce  tureen.  Truffles 
may  be  fried  cut  in  fillets,  and  sauced  with  j^ly-gravy 
and  wine ;  glazed  and  served  with  glazed  sippets  or  croua-^ 
tades ;  and  also  in  a  large  croustade  with  Italienn^  same. 
Truffles  are  dressed  in  many  other  ways ;  but  we  have 
given  the  best  on  the  competent  authority  of  the  Chef  of 
the  Reform  Club,  and  the  great  Careme. 

216.   POTATOES. 

Sdm£  humorous  writer  pities  those  people  who  lived 
before  the  publication  of  the  Waverley  Novels  and  the  in* 
troduction  of  potatoes,— that  root  of  superlative  excellence 
and  unbounded  utility,  which  once — alas  the  day !— took 
its  honoured  place  <m  every  dining  table  or  stool  in  th« 


PQTATOBS.  243 

three  kingdoms,  and  went  far  to  equalize  the  dining  enjoy«> 
ments  of  every  grade  of  society* 

There  are  a  great  many  varieties  of  potatoes,  and  fuUy 
as  many  ways  of  cooking  them ;  hut  when  all  ways  ax\e 
tried,  simple  hoiling,  when  well  done,  is  found  the  hest 
way.  Count  Rumford,  Sir  John  Sivglais,  and  other 
writers  upon  economics,  have  multiplied  receipts  for  dress- 
ing this  valuable  production ;  but  we  would  advise  such 
of  our  readers  as  are  potato-fanciers,  rather  to  follow  the 
practice  adopted  in  the  cabins  or  cottages  in  iheir  neigh- 
bourhood, than  any  printed  formula  whatever.  Potatoes 
are  rarely  seen  in  their  utmost  perfection  save  in  sui^ 
situations,  when,  just  ripe  and  freshly  dug,  they  are  well 
washed  and  scrubbed,  suited  in  sise,  and  boiled  in  hot 
haste,  with  scanty- water,  and  abundance  of  salt,  and  in  a 
Fessel  to  which  poverty,  luckily  for  the  quality  of  the 
potatoes,  denies  a  close-fitting  lid.  As .  soon  as  they  are 
ready,  the  water  is  poured  off ;  a  few  minutes  more  of  the 
fire  evaporates  all  moisture,  and  completes  the  cooking ; 
and  there  they  lie,  smoking  hot,  mealy,  and  flaky,  burst- 
ing from  their  coats,  in  such  guise  as  potatoes  are  seldom 
seen  on  the  tables  of  opulence.  SUaming  \a  recommended 
for  potatoes  by  theoretical  writers  up(ai  the  subjects  of  the 
kitchen;  and  certainly,  where  potatoes  must  be  cooked  on 
a  large  scale,  it  is  very  convenient ;  but  so  far  as  our  exr 
perience  goes,  we  will  venture  to  affirm,  that  the  crude, 
rank,  deleterious  juice,  which  makes  potatoes  so  unfit  for 
food  in  their  raw  state,  is  never  so  quickly  nor  so  effec- 
tually extracted  afl  by  rapid  uncovered  boiling.  Potatoes 
ought  to  be  eaten  as  soon  as  they  are  dressed  and  dried.  If 
they  must  stand,  let  it  be  by  the  fire,  in  the  saucepan, 
and  only  partially  covered,  that  the  steams  may  escape  as 
they  arise.  A  piece  of  coarse  calico  or  flannel  kept  for  this 
purpose  should  be  laid  over  the  potatoes  in  folds,  and  the 
pot-lid  over  this.  This  will  not  only  absorb  the  moisture, 
but  keep  them  hot  a  long  while.  Young  potatoes  ought 
always  to  be  served  in  their  skins ; — very  little  boiling 
will  diess  th^n.  They  are  beet  when  boiled  witii  haiUng 
water  and  salt  poured  over  them. 

21 7«  BoiUTJBi)  Potatoes. — This  is  perhaps  the  nicest  mo4e 


244  CHAP.  Vin. YEOBTABLBS  AND  BOOTS. 

of  cooking  this  root.  Let  the  potatoes  be  large,  of  equal  size, 
and  well  washed  and  scrubbed  ;  for  the  browned  skin  of  a 
xoasted  potato  is  the  better  part  of  it.  They  must  be 
slowly  done  before  the  fire,  or  in  an  American  oven,  or 
buried  in  wood  or  turf  ashes.  Serve  them  with  cold  salt 
butter  scooped,  and  roasted  onions. 

218.  Potatoes  are  Fried  or  Broiled  after  being  boiled, 
peeled,  and  sliced  cold.  Broil  on  a  clear  fire,  ot  fry  in 
plenty  of  good  dripping.  They  may  be  dressed  as  potato- 
fritterSy  by  flouring  the  slices,  dipping  them  in  e^  and 
crumbs,  and  frying.  These  form  an  agreeable  accompani- 
ment to  steaks,  sausages,  and  pickled  or  red  herrings,  with 
which  they  may  be  served.  Large  potatoes,  cut  neatly  in 
ringlet-slices  and  browned,  form  a  suitable  garnish  to 
sausages,  pork-chops,  &c.  The  French  fry  sliced  potatoes 
in  goosendripping,  which*  has  a  very  strong  gout ;  but  before 
serving,  drain  them  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire.— See  French 
Cookery  of  Potatoes, 

219.    TO  HASH  POTATOES.* 

Wash  and  pare  them,  cut  out  all  the  eyes  and  specks, 
boil  them  with  plenty  of  salt,  pour  off  the  water,  and  put 
them  over  the  fire  to  dry  for  a  minute.  Add  butter,  salt, 
and  a  Uttle  inilk,  (the  less  the  better,  unless  they  are  to  be 
eaten  with  milk,  as  it  makes  them  tough  and  doughy;) 
Mash  them  smooth,  with  the  Scottish  implement  called  a 
potato-beetle^  or  with  a  beater,  and  dish  neatly ;  score  in 
diamonds  or  sippets,  and  brown  them  before  the  fire. 
They  are  also  done  pressed  in  shapes,  and  rock-work  made 
by  pressing  the  mash  through  a  colander,  upon  the  roughly 
heaped  up  mash  before  browning,  exactly  as  pipe  ma- 
caroni is  made  of  the  prepared  paste  by  pressing  it  tJirough 
holes.    After  the  month  of  March,  potatoes  ought  always 

*  There  is  an  admirable  receipt  for  gusty  cbappit  (i.  e.  mashed) 
potatoes  in  an  early  volume  of  Blackwood^s  Magazine,  the  work  which, 
in  the  mysteries  of  Comus,  wont  to  take  the  lead  of  all  the  periodi- 
cals of  the  day.  The  receipt  to  which  we  allude  is  after  the  practice  of 
the  pastoral  mhabitants  of  Ettrick,  Yarrow,  and  Teviotdale.  Before 
calling  the  potato-6ee^  into  operation  to  mash^  salt,  pepper,  and  an 
anion,  finely  shred,  are  sprinkled  over  the  potatoes,  with  a  good  dash  of 
sweet  milk.    The  addition  of  the  onion  is  here  the  Tour-de-Maitre. 


POTATOES.  245 

to  be  pared  before  boiling,  whether  they  are  to  be  mashed 
or  served  whole. 

220.  Mashed  Potatoes  may  be  pressed  into  patty-pans 
previously  buttered,  and  turned  out  and  browned ;  or  put 
into,  stoneware  scallop-shell  shapes,  glazed  with  egg,  and 
browned  before  the  fire,  sticking  a  few  bits  of  batter  upon 
them.  A  few  of  these  make  a  pretty  supper-dish. 
«  221.  Potato-SnoWy  a  favourite  loay  of  cooking  Potatoes^ — 
Choose  white,  mealy,  smooth  potatoes ;  pare  them ;  boil 
them  carefully,  and  when  they  crack  pour  off  the  water, 
and  put  them  to  dry  on  the .  trivet  till  quite  dry  and 
powdery.  Rub  them  through  a  coarse  wire-sieve  on  the 
dish  they  are  to  go  to  table  on  ;  and  do  not  move  it,  or  the 
flakes  will  fall  and  flatten. 

.  222.  Potato-Balls  is  another  form  into  which  ma«hed 
potatoes  may  be  converted.  Roll  them  up  with  yolk  of 
egg  and  a  little  flour,  and  fry  them  in  good  dripping,  or 
brown  them. 

223.  Potatoes  dressed  in  a  French  Mode  for  Nursery 
Dinners^  S^c, — Stir  new  milk  into  mashed  potatoes  till  the 
mixture  is  as  thin  as  double  cream.  Boil  tiiiis  with  a  little 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  for  twenty  minutes. 

224.  Potato-Balls  Ragout  are  also  made .  of  mashed 
potatoes,  by  adding  grated  ham  or  tongue,  minced  parsley 
and  onion,  pepper,  salt,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  of  any 
flavouring  ingredient  that  is  suited  to  the  dish  they  are  to 
accompany.  Small  ragout  balls  of  potatoes  form  an 
agreeable  addition  to  open  fish-pies,  or  make  a  neat  supper- 
plate. 

225.  Westphalia  Loavesy  a  Supper  Dishy  or  to  eat  with 
Vealy  S^c. — Grate  four  ounces  of  good  lean  ham,  and  mix 
it  with  a  pound  of  good  potatoes,  mashed  with  butter. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  and  two  eggs,  to  bind  the  ingredients. 
Mould  this  into  small  loaves,  or  shape  it  in  patty-pans,  and 
fry  and  serve  in  a  brown  gravy,  or  without  sauce. 

226.  A  Potato-Collary  rolled  handsomely  up,  scored  in 
diagonal  lines,  and  nicely  browned,  makes  a  neat  potato- 
dish.  Garnish  it  with  potato -balls  around  it,  and  a  brown 
onion  gravy-sauce,  or  plain  melted  butter,  which  we  would 


t4Q  CHAP.  YIII.— YBOBTABLSS  AND  ROOTS. 

recommend  in  place  of  the  wine-sauce  ordered  by  learned 
cooks. 

227.  PotaU>'Fr%tUr9y  (Scotch,) — ^Parboil  waxy,  long- 
shaped  potatoes,  dip  them  {sliced)  in  egg,  bread-crumbs, 
and  rasped  ham  ;  fry  in  plenty  of  dripping,  and  serve  with 
any  sort  of  steaks  and  chops,  or  alone  as  a  supper-dish. 
They  may  be  dipped  in  small-beer  fritter-batter.  A  cheap 
and  delicious  mess  was  furnished  in  summer  to  those 
healthy  and  happy  children  educated  in  what  are  called 
the  Maiden  Hospitals  of  Edinburgh.  Good  potatoes, 
boiled,  peeled,  and  roughly  broken,  were  boiled  up  with 
sweet  milk,  and  a  small  proportion  of  butter. 

228.  Calecannon,  an  Irish  dish,  is  made  by  boiling  and 
mashing  greens,  young  cabbage,  or  spinage,  and  mixing 
them  with  mashed  potatoes,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  press- 
ing it  into  a  buttered  shape  to  be  turned  out,  or  dishing  it 
like  mashed  potatoes.  In  this  dish  at  least  two-thirds 
should  be  potato.  Plain  Calecannon  is  made  in  cottages 
with  infinitely  less  ceremony,  and  it  is  quite  as  good. 
Boil  the  vegetables  till  nearly  done  ;  put  the  peeled  raw 
potatoes  to  them  to  boil ;  drain  them  from  the  water ;  add 
pepper,  salt,  a  shred  onion,  and  a  good  piece  of  butter  or 
dripping  ;  and  mash  them  up  together. 

The  partial  failure  of  the  potato  crop  in  1845,  and  the  subse- 
quent more  general,  or  almost  universal  failure  of  this  favourite 
esculent,  drove  all  classes  to  their  shifts  to  find  substitutes  ; 
though  neither  the  cook,  nor  the  potato-lover  has  yet  completely 
succeeded.  Substitutes  became  a  question  of  economy,  as  well 
as  of  taste.  Rice,  macaroni,  chestnuts,  parsnips,  Portugal  onions, 
stewed  or  roasted,  beet,  baked  or  boiled ;  the  different  kinds  of 
beans,  native  or  imported  fVom  different  quarters,  mashed  white 
cabbage  ;  turnip  and  carrot  mashed  ;  saur  croute,  many  prepara- 
tions of  Indian  corn  or  maize  meal,  and  the  old  plain  Yorkshire 
padding,  dough-nuts,  dough-boys,  and  the  other  plain  flour  or 
oatmeal  dumplings  of  our  ancestors,  were  all  resorted  to,  both 
to  save  the  consumption  of  meat,  and  to  improve  it  to  the  palate. 

For  those  who  can  afford  to  dine  comfortably,  if  not  sumptu- 
ously, every  day,  we  would  suggest,  as  among  the  best  substitutes, 
if  for  accompaniments  to  meat : — I.  Rice  plain  boiled,  if  with  roasts 
or  poultry  ;  but  parboiled,  and  then  stewed  with  the  meat,  if  with 
stews;  and  also  as  borders  to  stews  and  small  made  dishes. — II. 
Macaroni  paste  dressed  and  served  in  the  same  way. — III.  Turkey 


POTATOBS.  247 

and  kidney  beans,  in  all  their  yarieties,  soaked  and  plainly  boiled 
till  thoroughly  cooked,  and  then  strained,  and  heated  up  in  a 
sanoepan  with  a  bit  of  batter,  pepper,  and  salt,  before  serring. 
IV.  Carrots  and  turnips  suggest  themselves,  and  parsnips  hare 
again  oome  into  favour,  both  for  soup  and  to  eat  with  salt  meat 
and  salt  fish.  Carrots  and  turnips  boiled  separately,  drained, 
and  mashed  up  together,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little 
butter,  or  stock,  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  plain  roast  or 
boiled  joints,  and  a  dish  recommended  for  convalescents  or  those 
restricted  to  vegetable  diet ;  tomatas  and  Jerusalem  artichokes  are 
also  good  substitutes. — ^Y.  Plain  flour  dumplings,  dough<nnts  and 
Devonshire  dough-boys,  boiled  with  meat  or  in  water ;  and  flour 
and  oatmeal  dumplings  with  suet,  which  may  either  be  eaten  alone 
or  with  meat ;  also  Yorkshire  pudding,  and  mashed  young 
cabbage,  put  below  roasts  of  lamb  or  mutton,  in  the  same  way  as 
potatoes  mashed. — YI.  Portugal  onions  stewed,  and  chestnuts 
as  dressed  plainly  in  Spain  and  the  south  of  France,  or  stewed  in 
stock,  is  another  good  substitute.  (  To  oook  ChestnutM,  see  No,  231.^) 
The  white  haricot  bean,  so  much  admired  in  France,  is  another 
admirable  substitute,  while  young.  Bakers  now  sell  doiigh  as 
readily  as  bread,  which  is  found  very  useful;  as  cheap  dumplings, 
dough'Uuts,  and  meat-puddings,  can  thus  be  easily  prepared. 

Mbat-Puddinos,  which,  whether  for  economy  or  savouriness, 
are  most  valuable  preparations,  have  rapidly  increased  in  favour 
since  the  failure  of  the  potato,  and  so  have  plain  mild  curries. 
See  No.  766 — which  is  as  good  for  family  as  for  camp-cookery— 
and  other  receipts.  • 

The  failure  of  the  potato,  which  first,  on  a  great  scale, 
brought  to  this  country  from  the  United  States  the  mutual 
blessing  of  Indian  corn  meal  and  buck-wheat,  inundated  us  with 
American  receipts  for  preparing  the  meal.  On  these,  many  of 
which  were  mere  varieties  of  the  same  thing, — distinctions  with- 
out difference,  save  in  name, — English  cooks  and  housekeepers 
have  improved.  The  most  approved  of  these  receipts  we  give  in 
the  sections  Puddingt,  Cakes,  and  Bread ;  and  as  a  substitute  for 
potatoes,  a  plain  cheap  accompaniment  to  meat,  we  know  of 
uo  recipes  better  than  those  which  we  subjoin ;  first  prefixing  a  few 
general  remarks  on  the  important  article  of  subsistence  of  which 
they  are  made.  The  Yellow  meal,  or  what  ladies  in  the  hue  of  their 
ribbons  call  maize-aUour,  is  the  richest  and  most  nutritious.  In- 
dian meal  should  never  be  ground  too  fine.  It  will  not  make  good 
bread  nor  cakes  without  a  fourth  or  third  of  wheaten-flour;  nor 
very  good,  unless  a  half  or  three-fourths  flour  is  used.  It  should 
not,  however  prepared,  have  much  salt,  which  deteriorates  iter 
native  flavour.  It  requires  a  hot  oven,  or,  if  baked  on  a  girdle, 
a  hot  clear  fire.  It  takes  longer  to  bake  than  wheaten-flour  bread; 
and  if  boiled,  much  longer  time  to  boil  properly,  than  oatmeal 
or  barleymeal.  For  boiling,  the  coarser  ground  it  is  the  better, 
if  it  is  long  enough  boiled.    It  is  enough  that  it  is  husked*    For 


248  CHAP.  Till. — ^YEOETABLBS  AND  ROOTS. 

hominy,  (a  good  substitute  for  rice,)  the  com  is  simply  hvUed  or 
cracked  at  the  mill,  and  any  inevUMe  meal  is  afterwards  sifted 
out,  or  the  skins  are  got  rid  of  by  ponnding  the  com  in  a  mor- 
tar  and  sifting  it;  a  tedions  process.  Indian  com,  roughly 
ground,  may  be  used  for  forcemeat  instead  of  bread-crumbs;  or  as 
oatmeal  in  our  receipt  for  dressing  fresh  herrings.  It  makes  good 
groel. 

DINNER  PREPARATIONS  OF  INDIAN  MEAL.  ^ 

229.  Hominy  or  emshed  Indian  Com, — Bake  half  a  pound  of 
crushed  com  in  three  pints  of  water  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 
If  it  thicken  too  much,  add  more  water,  and  stir  up.  It  becomes 
of  the  consistence  of  rice-pudding.  This  will  turn  out  of  a  shape 
if  wished.    - 

i  230.  Another  way, — Make  a  pudding  of  Indian  meal,  exactly 
as  oatmeal  porridge  or  stirabout  is  made  over  all  Scotland  and 
Ireland ;  but  boil  it  much  longer.  Put  in  the  meal  very  gradually 
and  stir  briskly  between  each  handful,  as  well  as  when  dropping 
in  the  meal.  The  old-fashioned  eoncate  porridge-pot  is  best,  as 
there  is  less  risk  of  the  pudding  sticking  to  the  bottom.  It  can- 
not be  boiled  too  long,  nor  made  too  smoothly:  and  with  care,  and 
a  good  stout  porridge-stick,  this  is  easily  done.  Have  ready  a 
buttered  basin  or  shape;  pour  the  pudding  into  it,  and  it 
will,  in  a-  few  minutes,  be  fit  to  turn  out,  and  still  hot ;  or 
it  may  be  served  without  turning  out.  Salt  may  be  added 
at  table.  The  above  dishes  may  be  made  of  milk  instead 
of  water.  .  More  liquid  will  often  need  to  be  added  during  the 
cooking,  as  the  meal  swells  much. 

To  Pry  cold  Mush  or  Pudding, — Cut  it  out  of  the  dish  in  slices 
about  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  lard,  beef-dripping,  or  melted 
suet.     It  is  excellent  this  way,  either  alone  or  with  meat. 

231.  Hominy  or  HuUed  com,  as  in  the  Western  States  of 
America, — When  the  cracked  corn  is  prepared  as  above  directed, 
put  it  in  a  large  pot  of  cold  water,  and  boil  for  six  or  eight 
hours,  frequently  adding  boiling  water  and  stirring,  lest  the 
hominy  become  black  or  burn.  It  is  usually  prepared  twice  a 
week,  and  kept  cold;  and  if  for  dinner,  sliced  and  fried  as  No. 
230;  or  if  for  breakfast,  heated  up  by  baking  in  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish,  and  either  so  served  or  turned  over. —  N.  B.  For 
Puddings  and  Cakes  of  Indian  Meal,  see  the  Index. 

231.*  Boiled  and  Roasted  Chestnuts,  Substitutes  for  Potatoes, — 
Make  an  incision  in  the  outer  skin  of  each  chestnut :  wash  and 
boil  them  in  salt  and  water  as  potatoes  :  probe  with  a  packing- 
needle,  to  try  when  they  are  boiled  enough,  ai)d  drain,  rub 
^hem  in  a  kitchen  towel,  and  serve  quickly  in  a  napkin  :  prepared . 
as  above  they  may  be  baked,  or  roasted  in  a. coffee-bean  roaster 
as  in  the  chestnut  countries,  but  in  both  ways  must  be  first  par- 
boiled. 

282.    SALADS. 

Salad  herbs  are  cooling  and  refreshing.     They  correct 


SALADS.  240 

the  putrescent  tendency  of  animal  food.  Salads  are  at 
any  rate  a  harmless  luxury  ;  and  though  they  afford  little 
nourishment  of  themselves,  they  make  a  pleasant  addition 
to  other  aliments,  and  a  graceful  appearance  on  the  dinner- 
tahle.  LeUucey  of  the  difierent  sorts,  or  salad  as  it  is  often 
called,  is  the  principal  ingredient  in  those  regetable  messes, 
and  Endive  the  most  beautiful.  Lettuce  should  be  blanched 
by  the  gardener,  and  eaten  young ;  when  old,  its  juices 
become  acrimonious.  Lettuce  possesses  soporific  qualities, 
and  is  therefore  recommended  to  bad  sleepers  as  a  supper- 
article.  Radishes^  when  young,  are  juicy  and  cooling, 
but  a  very  few  days  changes  their  quality,  and  they  be- 
come woody  and  acrid ;  when  not  very  young  they  ought 
to  be  scraped.  Cress  and  mustard  are  cordial  and  grateful, 
and  of  an  agreeable  pungency ;  and  celeryy  when  young 
and  properly  blanched,  by  its  peculiar  nutty  flavour, 
contributes  much  to  what  Evelyn  calls  *'  harmony  in  the 
composure  of  a  sallet.'*  A  variety  of  other  herbs  mingle 
in  full  well-selected  salads,  such  as  sorrel,  young  onions, 
cucumbers,  tomatas,  radish  leaflets,  and  baked  beetroot. 
Several  wild  herbs,  as  dandelion,  were  formerly  employed^ 
and  are  still  used  on  the  Continent  and  in  America,  as 
saladings.  As  this  is  quite  a  delicate,  jaunty  branch  of 
the  culinary  art,  we  would  recommend  that  young  ladies 
residing  in  the  country  should  gather  their  own  salad- 
herbs,  and  dress  salads  for  their  families,  which  will  give 
a  better  chance  of  a  duty  being  well  done,  which,  in  the 
hurry  of  the  stew-pan,  the  spit,  and  the  stove,  the  dis- 
tracted cook  must  often  perform  with  haste  and  sloven- 
liness. Never  make  a  salad  till  near  the  dinner-hour, 
as  it  will  flatten  and  lose  its  light  appearance  by  stand- 
ing. 

Foreigners  call  many  things  salads  which  we  would 
merely  reckon  cold,  little,  dressed  dishes.  A  salad  of  cold 
dressed  meat,  game,  or  poultry,  is  a  frequent  continental 
summer  dinner.  As  this  may  produce  a  confusion  of  ideas 
in  the  young  housekeeper,  we  notice  it  here.  Our 
ancestors  had  the  same  notion  of  what  sallets  were,  that 
the  French  still  retain,  and  which  French  cooks  have 
again  brought  into  use  among  us.     There  are  also  sweet 


250  CHAP.  Fill. — YBffETLBLES  AND  ROOTS. 

dishes,  having  the  name  of  salads,  made  of  different  kinds 
of  fruit,  served  in  the  dessert. 

233.  An  English  Summer  Salad  and  Saiad-Sauee, ^-^Let 
the  salad-herhs  he  freshly  gathered,  nicely  picked  and 
trimmed,    and    repeatedly  washed    in    salt    and   water. 
Drain  and  cut  them  with  a  silver  knife.     Salad-sauce,-'^ 
Just  hefore  dinner  is  served,  ruh  the  yolks  of  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  very  smooth  on  a  soup-plate,  with  a  little  very 
rich  cream.     When  well  mixed,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
made-mustard  and  a  little   salt,  a   spoonful  of  olive<K)il 
(one  of  oUed  butter,  or  two  of  sourish  cream  may  be  sub- 
stituted,) and  when  this  is  mixed  smooth,  put  in  as  much 
plain,  or  cucumber,  or  tarragon  vinegar  as  will  give  the 
proper  degree  of  acidity  to  the  sauce, — about  two  large 
spoonfuls ;  add  a  little  pounded  lump-sugar,  if  the  flavour 
is  liked.     Salad-sauce  may  be  rendered  more  pungent  by 
the  addition   of  cayenne,  minced   onion,  or  eschalot,  or 
any  of  the  herb-flavoured  vinegars.     Put  the  sauoe  in  the 
dish,  and  lay  the  cut  herbs  lightly  over  it ;  or  mix  them 
well  with  it,  and  garnish  with  cooked  beetroot  sliced  and 
marked  ;  rings  of  the  white  of  the  eggs,  young  radishes, 
&c.     Onions  may  be  served  separately  on  a  small  dish. 
Some  like  the  salad-sauce  served  separately,  and  others, 
hnotoing  persons,  like  grated  Parmesan  put  to  their  salad 
and  sauce. 

234.  Lobster- Salad, — :This  is  become  a  fashionable  salad. 
The  coral  of  the  lobster  is  cut,  and  tastefully  disposed 
among  the  white  and  green  vegetables,  and  green  capsi- 
cums, so  as  best  to  contrast  the  colours ;  lemon-juice  or 
vinegar  is  added  with  salt. — Another  way.  Choose  a  hen 
lobster.  Boil,  break  the  shell  without  mangling  the  meat. 
Divide  the  tail,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the 
best  side  upmost — the  claws  laid  around — then  a  row  of 
minced  parsley,  or  cress,  then  one  of  lobster  and  spawn. 
Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon.  Serve  a  sauce  of  oil,  vinegar, 
mustard,  cayenne,  and  salt,  or  the  sauce  of  ffo.  233. — 
Another,  Dress  the  lobster  and  garnish  with  parsley. — 
See  No.  32.  Salade  de  Grouse  a  la  Soyer. 

236.  Parisian  Salad,  and  Maeedoine  after  Gareme. — Cut  fire 
red  carrots  and  fire  tarnips  in  half-inch  lengths  ;  and  then,  with  a 


SALADS.  251 

root-cuttet  a  qaarter  inch  wide,  cnt  them  into  small  fillete  as  for 
soup  :  keep  them  separate,  and  blanch  them  in  salt  and  water  : 
then  boil  them  separcOely,  in  stock,  with  a  morsel  of  butter  and 
a  bit  of  sugar,  keeping  the  turnips  firm  :  when  boiled  and  cooled 
in  a  basin,  add  to  them  asparagus  points,  and  young  French  beans, 
cut  in  half* inch  lengths,  and  also  boiled,  but  not  too  soft :  season 
the  mixture,  or  Macedoine,  to  taste  with  nutmeg,  chopped  chervil, 
pepper,  eschalot  first  blanched,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  aspic  jelly, 
(See  No.  606.)  Before  dishing  add  a  little  tarragon  vinegar : 
toss  up  in  a  saucepan  to  mix  thoroughly,  and  serve  in  a  Crom- 
fade,  (See  No.  578,)  round  which  small  sprigs  of  cauliflower  may 
be  placed.  Prepared  mushrooms,  or  artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  dice, 
may  be  mingled  with  this,  and  two  spoonsful  of  salad-sauce,  or 
the  French  Mayonnaise,  added.  This  is  a  Spring  Macedoine,  and 
is  raised  to  the  Parisian  salad  of  CarSme  as  follows  : — Take 
slices  of  beet,  and  boiled  potatoes;  cut  them  an  inch  and  three* 
fourths  long,  and  two  thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  and  divide  each 
piece  into  two  triangular  ones.  Form  a  circle  of  potatoes  six 
inches  in  diameter,  round  a  salad  dish,  placing  a  triangle  of 
the  beet  alternately  with  one  of  potatoes,  so  as  to  form  a  border 
two-thirds  of  an  inch  high.  To  fortify  this  border,  fill  the  bottom 
of  the  dish  with  aspic  jelly^  and  set  it  on  ice.  Then  pierce  the 
centre  of  thirty  mushrooms  with  a  corcr  an  inch  wide,  and  fill 
the  hole  with  a  head  of  asparagus  an  inch  long,  or  else  with 
French  beans,  carrot,  or  beet  cut  in  fillets  :  dip  each  mushroom 
in  a  large  spoonful  of  aspic  nearly  set  (by  the  ice,)  and  fix  them 
on  the  border  of  beetroot  and  potato  :  they  should  appear  as  if 
slightly  glazed.  Within  this  dressed  border  pour  the  macedoine, 
prepared  as  above  directed,  and  cover  it  with  a  little  mayonnaise' 
sauce,  (No.  266,)  and  then  place  within  the  border,  as  an  inner 
one,  small  hearts  of  brilliant  lettuces,  divided,  with  a  very  fine 
one  stuck  in  the  centre;  serve  immediately.  The  border  may  be 
made  of  hard  eggs,  cut  in  four  the  long  way,  and  stuck  to  the 
dish,  with  aspic;  and  small  leaves  of  endive  or  celery  may  take 
place  of  lettuce. 

We  give  the  above,  not  from  any  great  admiration  of  its 
utility  in  domestic  cookery,  but  to  show  how  elaborately  these 
things  are  done  in  France.  It  is,  besides,  a  specimen  of  pretty 
cookery  for  young  ladies. 

237.  An  Italian  Salad. — Three  hours  before  dinner,  bone 
and  chop  two  anchovies,  mince  a  small  eschalot,  and  some 
young  cress  or  parsley.  Mix  these  well  in  a  salad-bowl, 
add  a  spoonful  of  olive-oil,  two  of  vinegar,  pepper  at  dis- 
cretion, and  a  little  made-mustard.  To  this  sauce  put  very 
thin  small  slices  of  cold  roast-meat,  or  minced  breast  of 
cold  chioken,  or  lobster-meat,  also  veal-gravy  ;  toss  them 
about  in  the  sauce,  and  let  them  soak  in  it : — or,  instead  of 
sauce,  use  aspic  jelly,  or  remoulade.      Garnish  with  curled 


252        CHAP.  Tin. — YEOETABLES  AND  BOOTS. 

parsley,  boiled  white  of  eggs,  or  beetroot.  Almonds,  capers, 
pickled  fruits,  or  fish,  grated  cheese  of  high  flavourj  and 
many  things  of  a  piquant  nature,  were  formerly  mixed 
with  salads,  and  are  still  used  abroad  in  their  composition. 
—  Obs*  Salads  are  likewise  compounded  of  cold  oysters, 
salmon,  soles,  skate,  trout,  and  cray-fish  ;  but  these  Gothic 
mixtures,  though  sometimes  presented,  are  seldom  or  never 
touched. 

238.  Boiled  Salad, — ^This,  if  less  agreeable,  is  more  safe 
than  crude  vegetables,  however  they  may  be  compounded. 
The  sauce  may  be  the  same  as  for  English  Salad,  but  the 
vegetables  are  previously  dressed.  It  is  made  oJF  dressed 
celery,  French  beans,  or  cauliflowers.  Sprinkle  some 
chopped  raw  white  lettuce  or  endive  over  it.  The  jelly  of 
roast  veal  or  lamb  blends  well  with  salads  instead  of  oil  or 
cream,  and  is  preferred  by  many  persons. 

289.  A  Winter  Salad, — The  basis  of  this  is  the  same  as 
any  other  salad,  with  the  substitution  of  endive,  celery, 
and  beetroot  cooked,  also  pickled  red  cabbage,  hard-boiled 
yolks,  &c.  —  Obs,  A  very  pretty  winter  salad  may  be 
arranged  by  nicely '  contrasting  the  colours  of  the  consti- 
tuents, garnishing  with  the  beetroot  in  slices,  the  red 
cabbage  and  white  celery,  cut  in  delicate  straws,  and  en- 
dive arranged  in  the  centre.  Plovers'  and  sea-birds'  eggs  are 
used  to  ornament  salads ;  and  are  admired  for  their  opal 
and  pearly  tints.  So  are  the  pretty  root-flowers  intro- 
duced by  the  French,  and  now  to  be  had  of  our  own  green- 
grocers and  fruiterers.  These  are  Provence  roses,  of  white 
turnip,  red  roses  of  beet,  and  ranunculuses  of  carrot, 
which  are  very  pretty  to  look  at,  and  only  fit  to  throw 
away.  Salads  admit  of  many  elegant  decorations  of  con- 
trasted colour  ;  as  scraped  horseradish,  squirted.  Fairy 
butter,  young  radishes,  &c.  &c.    See  No.  1201. 

240.  To  dress  Cucumbers,  —  Pare  the  cucumbers,  and 
with  a  penknife  cut  the  slices  into  small  skeins  (the  length 
of  the  dish)  wound  up ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne  and  drain 
a  little.  Dress  the  ribbons  along  the  dish,  and  pour  Chili 
vinegar  over  them.  Cucumbers  thus  cut  may  be  served 
over  beetroot  sliced.  Cucumbers  in  skeins  may  also  be 
prettily  served  cooked. 

241.  Indian  Salado, — Slice  two  cucumbers,  taking  out 


INDIAN  SALADO,  &C.  2o3 

the  seeds,  a  Spanbh  onion,  two  rennets,  and  two  Chilies. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  together,  and  add  two 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  three  of  salad-oil.  The  cut  meat 
of  a  lobster,  or  of  crabs'  claws,  is  an  improyement,  and 
cayenne.    The  onion  may  be  omitted  at  pleasure. 


242.  TO  PRESERVE  ROOTS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes  are  of  most  consequence,  but  few  now  think 
of  storing  potatoes.     Keep  carrots  and  turnips^  parsnips 
and  beetrdots,  with  their  native  mould  dry  about  them,  in 
dry  sand.     Onions  are  best  preserved  strung,  or  the  small 
ones  in  nets,  in  a  cool  but  not  a  damp  place.     Use  the 
thick-necked  spongy  ones  first.     They  may  also  have  the 
germ  taken  out  with  a  larding-pin,  and  then  be  strung  up, 
or  they  may  be  kiln-dried.     Parsley  may  be  picked,  and 
dried  by  tying  it  in  bundles  to  a  string,  or  drying  it  in  a 
cool  oven  ;  and  so  may  other  herbs.    French  beans  will 
keep  by  palting  and  closing  them  up,  and  soaking  them 
before  they  are  dressed;  but  they  lose  their  flavour  and 
colour.      Cucumbers,  kidney-beans,  endive,  &c.  may  be 
parboiled  and  kept  closed  up  in  strong  pickle  ;    soaking 
them  to  freshen  them  before   they  are   dressed.     Grreen 
peas  are  shelled,   scalded   repeatedly,  drained,   dried  in 
cloths,  spread  on  plates,  and  put  in  a  cool  oven,  and  after- 
wards hung  up  in  paper  bags  to  harden.    Soak  them  before 
they  are  used.    After  all  this  trouble  they  are  but  the  ghosts 
of  sweet  young  peas.     They  may  also  be  scalded,  bottled, 
covered  vnth  clarified  butter,  corked  up,  and  the  corks 
dipped  in  rosin  ;  but  nothing  vTill  preserve  the  sweet  flavour 
and  marrowy  substance  of  the  young  pea.    When  used 
boil  ihem  with  a  bit  of  sugar.     Cabbages,  lettuce,  greens, 
endive,  leeks,  cauliflowers,  &c.  if  carefully  removed  in  dry 
weather  from  the  ground,  without  injuring  the  roots,  and 
laid  in  a  cold  cellar,  or  on  a  stone  floor,  covering  the  roots 
vnth  earth  or  sand,  will  keep  through  the  vnnter,  even 
when  the  frost  might  destroy  them  if  left  in  the  garden  ; 
and  this  we  conceive  the  best  mode  of  preservation. — Obs, 
Vegetables  slightly  touched  by  frost  may  be  recovered  by 
soaking  in  water. 


254  CHAP.  YIU. — VSOBTABLES  AND  ROOTS. 

243.    TO  STORE  FRUITS  OF  DIFFERENT  KINDS. 

This  art  is  now  so  well  understood,  that  in  spring  and 
early  summer,  apples,  and  even  pears,  are  seen  as  plump 
and  fresh  as  in  the  autumn  when  they  are  gathered. 

Gather  apples  when  just  ready  to  drop  off  easily,  but 
not  over-ripe,— do  not  bruise  the  fruit  in  gathering.  Wipe 
each  apple  or  pear,  one  by  one,  and  wrap  in  paper  : — ^place 
them  in  stoneware  gallon  jars,  bedded  in  fine  sifted  sand, 
dried  in  an  oven  :  —  fill  up  the  jars  with  sand,  which 
will  imbibe  any  moisture  that  might  injure  the  fruit.  If 
fruit  is  frozen,  steep  it  in  cold  water,  as  in  all  cases  of 
things  frozen,  that  it  may  thaw  gradually.  Pack  each 
sort  by  itself ;  label  the  jars  and  close  them,  and  keep 
them  in  an  airy  loft,  but  protect  from  frost  by  covering 
them  with  a  thick  cloth. 

N.  B.— Eggs,  fruit,  and  other  things  packed  in  s^aw, 
acquire  a  very  musty  flavour.  This,  which  is  called  being 
Btraw-tasted^  may  be  avoided  by  using  dried  ferji,  sawdust, 
or  bran,  for  packing. 

244.    HERBS  AND  SEEDS  TO  DRY  FOR  KITCHEN  USE. 

The  herbs  which  are  generally  kept  dry  are  mint, 
knotted  marjoram,  thyme,  sweet  basil,  and  sage,  and  pars- 
ley and  celery-seeds  ;  gather  them  when  ripe,  and  put  in 
a  cool  oven,  meat-screen,  or  drying  stove  ;  dry  them 
quickly,  but  do  not  bum  them  ;  when  dry  rub  the  leaves 
off  the  stalks ;  pound,  sift,  and  keep  them  in  bottles  well 
corked. 

Note, — They  are  much  higher  flavoured  than  when  dried 
slowly  in  the  sun.     They  may  be  dried,  as  No.  242. 

245.    TO  SALT  VEGETABLES. 

French  beans,  artichokes,  samphire,  and  olives,  may 
be  kept  for  a  long  time  in  a  strong  brine,  taking  care  that 
they  are  completely  covered. 

246.    TO  SALT  BARBERRIES,  CRANBERRIES,  &C. 

Gather  fine  full  clusters  before  they  are  quite  ripe. 
Pick  away  any  dead  leaves  and  injured  berries,  and  keep 
the  clusters  in  salt  and  water  in  jars  well  covered.  When 
the  pickle  begins  to  ferment  change  it.  Red  currants, 
cranbenies,  and  crowberries,  may  be  kept  as  above. 


255 


CHAPTER  IX. 

SAUCES,  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS, 

Elements !  each  other  greeting, 

GHfbs  and  Powers  attend  jour  meeting !  The  Pirate, 

Our  fathers  most  admired  their  sauces  sweet, 
And  often  asked  for  EUgar  with  their  meat ; 
They  buttered  cnrxants  on  fat  veal  bestrewed, 
And  rumps  of  beef  with  virgin-honey  stewed : 
Insipid  taste,  old  friend,  to  them  who  Paris  know, 
Where  roeambole,  shallot,  and  the  rank  garlic  grow. 

"  It  is  the  duty  of  a  good  sauce,"  says  one  of  the  most 
recondite  of  modem  gastrologers,  the  £ditor  of  the  Alma- 
nack des  Gowrmandsy  **  to  insinuate  itself  all  around  the 
maxillary  glands,  and  call  into  actiyity  each  ramification 
of  the  palatic  oigans.  If  it  be  not  relishingy  it  is  incapable 
of  producing  this  effect,  and  if  too  piquatUj  it  will  deaden 
instead  of  exciting  t^ose  titillations  of  tongue  and  vibra- 
tions of  palate,  which  can  only  be  produced  by  the  most 
accomplished  philosophers  of  the  mouth  on  the  well-trained 
palate  of  the  refined  ffourmand"  This,  we  think,  is  a 
tolerably  correct  definition  of  what  a  well-compounded 
sauce  ought  to  be. 

The  Fiench,  among  our  other  insular  distinctions,  speak 
of  us  as  a  nation  ^*  with  twenty  religions  and  only  one 
sauce," — ^parsley  and  butter,  by  the  way,  is  this  national 
relish, — and  unquestionably  English  cookery,  like  English 
manners,  iias  erer  been  simpler  than  that  of  our  refined 
neighbours.  Modem  cookery,  too,  like  modem  dress,  is 
stripped  of  many  of  its  original  tag-rag  fripperies.  We 
hare  laid  aside  lace  and  embroidery,  save  upon  occasions 
oi  high  ceremonial,  and,  at  the  same  time,  many  omne- 
gatherum  compound  sauces  and  ragouts,  with  a  smack  of 
every  thing.  Yet  the  human  form  and  the  human  palate 
have  not  lost  by  this  revolution.  The  harmonies  of  flavours, 
the  affinities  and  coherence  of  tastes,  and  the  art  of  blend^ 
ing  and  of  opposing  relishes,  were,  however,  never  so  well 
understood  as  bow  ;  while  the  modem  kitchen  still  afibrds, 


256       CHAP.  IX. — SAUCES,  BSSBKCBS,  AND  CONDIHBNTS. 

in  sufficient  yariety,  the  sharp,  the  pungent^the  sweet,  the 
acid,  the  spicy,  the  aromatic,  and  the  nutty  flavours,  of 
which  to  compound   mild,  savouiy,  or  piquant   sauces, . 
though  a  host  of  heterogeneous  ingredients  are  laid  aside. 

The  elegance  of  a  table,  as  opposed  to  mere  lumbering 
sumptuousness  or  vulgar  luxury,  is  perhaps  best  displayed 
in  the  adaptation  of  the  sauces  to  the  meats  served,  and 
in  their  proper  preparation  and  attractive  appearance* 
Plain  Sauces  ought  to  have,  as  their  name  unports,  a 
plain  but  yet  a  decided  character ;  so  ought  the  piquant, 
the  sweet,  and  the  savoury.  All  hot  satices  should  be  served 
very  hot,  —  a  matter  too  often  neglected  in  the  hurry  of 
dishing  and  serving  dinner.  Sauces  with  which  cream 
and  eggs  are  mixed  should  be  diligently  stirred  after  these 
ingredients  are  added,  to  prevent  their  curdling;  and 
sufifered  to  warm  through  in  a  pot  of  hot  water  or  bain 
marie,  but  not  to  boil  on  the  flre  or  hot  plate,  lest  they 
curdle.  The  same  care  must  be  taken  in  mixing  capers 
and  acid  pickles  in  sauce.  Though  it  is  wilful  waste  to  put 
wine,  catsup,  lemon-juice,  aromatic  spices,  and  other 
expensive  ingredients,  into  sauces  or  soups  for  more  than 
the  time  necessary  to  extract  the  flavour,  yet,  on  the 
other  hand,  these  things  must  be  macerated  or  boiled  long 
enough  to  be  properly  blended,  both  in  substance  and 
flavour,  with  the  basis  of  the  sauce.  The  patient  con- 
coction must  also  be  duly  attended  to,  whether  at  the 
mincing-board,  in  the  mortar,  or  saucepan.  As  a  general 
rule,  brown  sauces  should  be  thinner  than  white.  Cream 
should  be  boiled  before  it  is  mixed  with  any  boiling  soup 
or  sauce.  And  all  sauces  served  over  meat  should  be 
thick  enough  to  adhere  to  what  they  are  meant  to  cover; 
'A  good  test  is  their  adhering  to  the  back  of  a  spoon.  For 
sauces  use  the  enamelled  saucepans,  which  are  equally 
suitable  for  many  small  delicate  dishes,  and  nearly  as 
cheap  as  tinned  ones. 

The  receipts  we  have  given  in  this  important  branch  of 
the  culinary  art  are  ample,  various,  and  circumstantial, 
and  have  been  diligently  considered.  We  do  not,  how- 
ever, pretend,  either  in  this  Chapter  or  any*^other,  to  fix 
the  precise  quantities  of  ingredients ;  but  we  have  tried  to 


TO  HELT  BUTTER.  2d7 

hit  the  medium,  as  far  as  possible  in  a  matter  where  men 
differ  so  widely  and  intolerantly,  that-— 

**  The  very  dish  one  relLshes  the  best, 
Is  tasteless  or  abomiiuitioii  to  the  rest/*  . 

The  basis,  or,  more  correctly,  the  vehicle  of  plain  Eng- 
lish sauces,  is  imttevy  whether  melted,  oiled,  browned,  or 
burnt ;  or  gravy,  either  clear,  brown,  or  thickened  ;  also 
water,  milk,  cream,  and  wine,  or  some  substitute.  A 
numerous  class  of  sauces  is  composed  of  vegetables  and 
green  fruits,  another  of  shell-fish,  and  a  third  of  flavoured 
meat-gravy.  There  are  still  other  complicated  sauces, 
compounded  of  an  admixture  of  many  or  all  of  these 
ingredients.  It  will  simplify  arrangement  to  take  these 
in  regular  order ;  though  the  philosophers  of  the  English 
kitchen  shake  themselves  tolerably  free  of  the  trammels 
of  system. — For  excellent  foundation  and  other  French 
sauces,  see  our  French  Cookery,  and  read  Nos.  59,  60,  61, 
62,  and  63. 


247.   TO  MELT  BUTTER  PLA^IN,  OT  foT  SaUCeS, 

Break  the  butter  in  little  bits,  and  put  it  into  a  small 
saucepan  (kept  for  this  and  other  delicate  uses,)  with 
either  cream,  sweet  milk,  or  water,  or  a  mixture  of  them, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  dessert-spoonful  to  the  ounce  of 
butter.  Dredge  a  little  flour  over  this,  and,  holding  the 
vessel  over  the  fire,  toss  it  quickly  round,  or  stir  quickly 
with  a  spoon,  till  the  butter  melte  into  the  consistence  of 
a  very  thick  cream.  Let  it  boil  up  and  no  more.  This 
is  the  French  Sauce  blanche.  Some  French  cooks  add  a 
very  little  vinegar  and  nutmeg. — Another  way.  Make  a 
thick  batter  of  flour  with  a  wine-glassful  of  water,  and 
six  ounces  of  butter  broken.  Stir  this  quickly  till  it 
comes  to  the  boiling  point. — Obs,  A  spoonful  of  catsup, 
and  a  little  vinegar,  flavoured  or  plain,  or  anchovy-liquor, 
converts  this,  extemporey  into  a  good  fish-sauce ;  —  a 
tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  where  suitable,  will  heighten  the 
relish. 

Butter,  from  its  bad  quality,  will  sometimes  run  to  oil 
in  spite  of  the  most  vigilant  cook.     In  this  case,  it  is  the 

R 


258        CHAP.  IX. — SJLVCESf  ESSBNCBS,  AITD  CONDIHEHTS. 

practice  to  put  a  little  cold  water  to  it,  and  to  pour  it 
rapidly  backwards  and  forwards  from  the  saucepan  into 
a  basin,  which  will  partially  restore  it ;  but  below  we  give 
a  better  way.  Melted  butter  to  be  mixed  with  flavoured 
vinegars,  catsups,  and  thin  essences,  should  be  made  very 
thick,  and  melted  with  water  and  flour  only,  as  milk  is 
apt  to  coagulate ;  and  the  vinegars,  capers,  pickles,  &c. 
must  be  carefully  stirred  in,  just  before  the  sauce  is  served, 
to  prevent  it  from  curdling.  Butter,  on  the  contrary, 
into  which  minced  egg,  or  herbs,  which  thicken,  are  to  be 
stirred,  should  be  rather  thin  when  melted,  as  the  other 
ingredients  will  thicken  the  sauce. 

To  recover  Butter  run  to  Oil. — Add  a  little  salt  of  tartar, 
kept  in  a  close-stopped  vial  for  this  purpose,  to  the  oiled 
butter  first  poured  ofi^  from  the  milky  sediment.  Shake 
them  up  together,  and  the  desired  creamy  appearance  will 
be  restored,  exactly  as  in  making  a  liniment  of  hartshorn 
and  oil. — To  clarify  Buttery  see  No.  44.* 

248.  Oiled  Butter, — Set  the  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire, 
or  at  the  side  of  it,  and  it  vtIU  oil  of  itself.  Let  it  settle, 
and  pour  it  from  any  milky  sediment. 

249.  To  brown  or  burn  Buttery  «,  e.  Black  Butter.  —  Put 
a  large  piece  of  butter  into  a  small  frying-pan,  and  toss  it 
round  over  a  brisk  fire  till  it  becomes  brown.  Skim  it, 
.dredge  in  lightly-browned  flour,  and  stir  it  briskly  round 
with  an  iron  spoon,  till  it  boils  and  is  smooth.  A  little 
vinegar  or  lemon-juice,  with  cayenne,  &c.  makes  this  a 
good  plain  fish-sauce. 

260.  TO  THICKEN  BUTTER  to  keep  to  saucc  Ghreen  PeaSy 

VegetahleSy  Saladsy  S^c. 

Just  cover  the  bottom  of  a  wide  stew-pan  with  water. 
Put  to  it  in  bits  ten  ounces  of  butter,  and  let  it  gradually 
melt.  Take  the  stew-pan  off  the  fire,  and  toss  it  round  till 
the  butter  becomes  smooth.    When  to  be  used,  heat  it  in 

*  Butter  is  frequently  spoiled  by  ignorance  or  carelessness.  The 
simple  chemical  process  of  making  the  creamy  compound  called 
*  volatile  liniment,^*  commonly  used  in  cases  of  sore  throat,  is  familiar 
to  most  people.  It  is  merely  adding  the  necessary  quantity  of  hartshorn 
to  sweet  oil.  By  a  similar  process  oiled  hutter  may  be  recovered  as 
directed  above,  where  the  appearance  of  the  butter  is  a  matter  of  more 
importance  than  its  qualities. 


TO  THICKEN  SAUCES.  259 

your  melting- pan.     This  and  aiM  huUer  answer  well  (or 
salads  to  those  who  dislike  oiL 

251.  Parsley  and  Sutter,  the  National  Sauce. — Pick  and 
wash  young  parsley ;  tie  it  up  in  a  fagot,  and  boil  it  in  salt 
and  water,  for  five  minutes  if  young,  or  seven  if  old  or 
preserved ;  drain  it,  and  cutting  off  the  stalks,  mince  the 
leaves  very  fine,  and  stir  about  a  table-spoonful  into  three 
ounces  of  melted  butter.  This  simple  English  sauce  is 
used  with  a  variety  of  dishes. 

252.  To  melt  Butter  with  Cream, — Melt  a  half-pound  of 
butter  broken  in  bits  in  a  glassful  of  sweet  cream.  Stir  it 
constantly.  This  is  used  for  lobster  or  oyster  sauces,  for 
turbot,  turkey,  &c.  when  the  sauce  is  to  be  presented  in 
the  very  highest  style  of  English  cookery. 

BOUX,  BBOWN  AND  WHITE,  TO  THICKEN  SAUCES,  &C. 

253.  IVkite  Roux, — ^Melt  some  good  butter  slowly,  and 
stir  into  it,  over  embers,  the  best  sifted  flour,  till  it  is  as 
thick  as  a  thinnish  but  firm  paste.  Stir  it  over  a  slow 
fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  but  do  not  let  it  get  brown, 
— a  pound  of  butter  will  take  in  nearly  a  pound  of  flour. 
— Ohs.  This  thickening,  or  roux,  as  the  French  term  it, 
comes  in  place  of  our  extempore  butter  kneaded  in  flour, 
and  of  our  hastily-made  browning,  ^'a  wretched  resource/' 
of  which  the  mere  name  drives  a  French  cook  in  England 
au  desespoir.  The  prepared  roux,  called  humorously  the 
^'  Cook's  assistant,"  is  certainly  superior  to  our  insular,  off- 
hand, kneaded  flour,  which  often  communicates  a  musty 
flavour,  at  any  rate  an  unpleasant  doughy  taste  of  flour, 
to  the  sauce  thickened. 

254.  Brown  T^our.—- Melt  what  quantity  of  butter  you 
like  very  slowly.  Stir  into  this  browned  flour,  till  of  a 
proper  consistence.  Less  cooking  will  make  the  roux  if 
the  flour  is  browned  previously  ;  and  this  will  prevent  the 
danger  of  the  empyreumatic  flavour,  which,  by  the  com- 
mon methods,  and  even  by  the  French  method,  is  insepar- 
able from  browning  made  of  butter.*    Pour  the  roux  into 

*  We  find  no  account  of  this  simple  and  useful  preparation  in  the 
many  volumes  of  cookery  which  we  nave  perused,  though  it  highly 
merits  tiie  attention  of  the  cook.  Where  browning  or  brown  thickenina 
is  required  for  any  dish,  browned  flour  may  be  employed  with  much 


260        CHA.P.  IX. — SAUCES,  C88SNCBS,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

an  earthen  dish,  and  keep  it  for  use.  This  thickening 
will  keep  a  good  while ;  but  we  conceire  the  method  of 
having  the  flour  ready  browned  better,  as  it  will  keep 
for  ever. 

255.  Brown  Thickening  for  Satices,  BagoutSy  Sfc,  another 
way. -^  To  make  thickening  properly  is  one  of  the  most 
delicate  offices  of  the  cook,  and  a  sort  of  test  of  skill. 
We  shall  explain  the  mystery  minutely,  mth  due  regard 
to  its  importance. 

Throw  slices  of  clarified  or  good  fresh  butter  into  a 
shallow  fiying-pan ;  toss  it  about  briskly  till  it  become  of 
a  fine  amber  colour,  skim  off  the  frothy  bubbles  that  float 
on  the  surface,  and  from  a  dredging-box  shake  in  slightly- 
browned  flour,  stirring  the  composition  briskly  and  inces- 
santly till  it  become  perfectly  smooth,  and  of  the  consis- 
tence of  a  thick  batter.  It  must  be  stirred  for  at  least 
fifteen  minutes.  Thickening  is  best  when  recently  made  ; 
but  it  will  keep  for  ten  days  or  more  if  poured  into  small 
jars,  and  the  surface  is  not  broken.  Put  a  little  of  the 
sauce  you  wish  to  thicken  to  it,  and  mix  gradually,  as  in 
making  mustard,  till  they  are  thoroughly  incorporated. 
A  dessert-spoonful  will  thicken  a  sauce-tureen  of  gravy. 
In  spite  of  the  most  vigilant  attention,  particles  of  fatty 
and  other  matters  will  sometimes,  to  the  great  mortifica- 
tion of  the  cook,  be  seen  floating  in  sauce.  To  remove 
this,  throw  a  glassful  of  lukewarm  water  into  the  thick- 
ened sauce,  and  set  the  saucepan  on  the  hearth,  which 
will  drive  those  crude  particles  to  the  top,  when  they  can 
be  removed,  and  the  cook,  in  serving  up  a  transparent 
sauce,  reap  the  reward  of  her  care.  This  mode  of  refining 
may  also  be  employed  for  soups  and  white  sauces ;  but  be 
it  remembered,  that  the  watery  ordeal,  while  it  contributes 
to  the  beauty,  injures  the  flavour  of  these  gusty  composi- 
tions. The  gravy  served  with  roast  ducks,  hare,  wild- 
fowl, goose,  &c.  &c.  if  clear,  is  too  often  little  better 
than   amber-coloured,  water.     When  gravy  b  required 

advantage.  It  is  easily  prepared  by  laying  a  quantity  of  flour  on  a 
plate,  and  placing  it  in  an  oven,  or  before  the  fire,  till  it  takes  the 
shade  desired ;  for  it  may  be  of  any  tint,  from  that  of  cinnamon  to  the 
deepness  of  coffee  powder.  Turn  it  occasionally,  that  it  may  colour 
equally,  and  keep  it  for  use. 


BBBF-GBAVT.  26t 

with  ^roasts,  we  would  advise  tliat  the  contents  of  the 
dripping-pan  he  strained  (presuming  that  the  first  rank 
greasy  droppings  of  goose,  &c.  are  laid  aside,)  and  thick- 
ened with  hrown  rotuc,  or  potato,  or  rice  flour,  and  have 
the  addition  of  a  little  walnut-pickle,  or  catsup.  The  eye 
admires  clear  gravy  (often  little  more  than  coloured 
water,)  the  palate  relishes  a  cleared  but  savoury  thickened 
gravy,  like  the  above. — See  Supar  Brouming^  No.  369. 

256.   THE  BEST  BEBF-ORAVT,  OB  JUS  DE  B(EUF,  the  BcUtS  of 

many  Sauces  far  Made  Dishes. 
Fob  Strang  gravy  we  would  once  more  recommend,  in 
place  of  all  other  parts  of  the  animal,  the  lean  but  juicy 
pieces  of  good  meat.  The  gelatinous  pieces  are  better 
adapted  for  soup  than  for  rich  gravy,  which  is,  in  fact, 
the  concentrated  extract  of  beef.  Ox-kidney  is  sometimes 
employed  from  motives  of  economy ;  it  makes  a  strong- 
flavoured  and  rich-coloured,  but  certainly  not  a  very  deli- 
cate gravy.  Cut  the  gravy-beef,  (from  four  to  eight 
pounds,  according  to  the  degree  of  strength  and  the  quan- 
tity wanted,)  into  thin  slices ;  score  them  roughly,  and, 
placing  a  thick  slice  of  lean  undressed  bacon  in  a  thick- 
bottomed  stew-pot,  lay  the  cut  meat  over  it,  with  a  few 
Ijits  of  butter,  or  a  cupful  of  fresh  gravy.  Slice  over  this 
a  carrot,  a  couple  of  onions,  a  little  eschalot,  a  head  of 
celery,  and,  if  a  high-flavoured  gravy  for  ragouts  be 
wanted,  a  couple  of  bay-leaves,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs  of  suitable  size.  Let  the  stew-pot  be  deep  and  very 
closely  covered.  Set  it  over  a  sharp  fire  to  catch  and  brown, 
and  shake  it  occasionally  to  prevent  the  meat  from  stick- 
ing. When  the  meat  is  drained  on  both  sides,  and  the 
juices  partially  drawn  out,  which  will  take  above  half  an 
hour,  put  in  the  proper  quantity  of  boiling  water,  a  short 
pint  to  the  pound  and  half,  allowing  a  little  for  waste. 
Skim  it  well, — check  the  boil  with  cold  water,  and  skim 
it  again  and  again,  if  needful,  —  wipe  the  edges  of  the 
stew-pot  and  lid,  and,  covering  close,  let  the  gravy  simmer 
for  three  hours  by  the  fire.  Strain  into  an  earthen  or  stone- 
ware vessel,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place. — See  Cow- 
samm^,  French  Cookery, 


262        CHAP.  IX. — SAUCES^  BSS£NGB8,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

257.  SATOURT  BROWN  GRAVY,  fcT  Brown  Sauces^  Ragoiuts^ 

and  Fricassees, 

This  brown  savoury  gravy,  or  foundation  brown-sauce, 
we  conceive  to  be,  for  every  useful  purpose,  equivalent  to 
the  Grand  Espagnole  or  Italienne  rousse  of  the  French 
kitchen.  Line  the  stew-pan  with  slices  of  ham  or  bacon  : 
add  to  this  four  or  five  pounds  of  a  fillet  of  veal  cut 
in  slices ;  mmsten  with  a  ladleful  or  two  of  good 
stock,  with  two  carrots  and.  two  onions,  or  double  the 
number,  if  you,  for  future  purposes,  wish  their  flavour. 
The  juices  will  soon  form  a  fflaze.  Take  the  stew-pan  off 
the  fire,  and  prick  the  meat  all  over,  to  obtain  all  the 
juices ;  moisten  again  with  any  broth  you  have,  made  of 
gelatinous  meat»  as  poultry,  game,  or  rabbits ;  season  with  a 
fagot  of  herbs, — parsley  and  a  little  young  onion  espe- 
cially— and  mushrooms,  if  you  have  them ;  to  this  add, 
(according  to  your  own  judgment,)  two  cloves,  a  bay-leaf, 
a  bit  of  garlic,  and  a  head  of  celery.  When  ready,  allow 
this,  (or  any  gravy,)  to  settle  a  few  minutes  before  strain- 
ing.— This  gravy  may  be  very  conveniently  made  jugged. 
Cut  down  all  the  ingredients,  and  put  them  in  a  jar;  cover 
it  close,  and  set  it  in  an  oven  or  over  a  stove  for  a  half-hour  ; 
add  boiling  water,  and  let  the  preparation  stove  slowly  till 
wanted.  Brown  gravy  may  be  varied  and  enriched  in  many 
ways,  by  the  addition  of  red  wines,  flavoured  vinegars, 
eschalot,  tarragon,  mushrooms,  currie-powder,  truffles, 
and  morells,  artichoke-bottoms,  anchovy,  pickled  oysters, 
—  in  short,  whatever  is  best  fitted  to  improve  and  heighten 
the  relish  of  the  dish  it  is  to  sauce.  Keep  for  use  and 
thicken  it  with  brown  thickening  when  wanted.  All 
gravies  may  be  cleared,  if  needful,  with  white  of  eggs 
before  adding  the  thickening. 

N.B. — ^Eschalot,  a  lemon  sliced,  a  bay-leaf,  two  cloves, 
and  a  quarter  pint  of  eating  oil,  stewed  in  a  ladleful  of  the 
abovie  gravy,  with  pepper,  cayenne,  and  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  makes  the  Italienne  rousse;  and  the  Italienne  blanche 
is  made  by  using  a  white  instead  of  a  brown  savoury  gravy. 
267.?  To  make  Glaze  and  Demi-glace;  and  to  glaze  Made 
DisheSfPoultry,  and  OutletSy  TongveSfFricandeaftayHams,  S^c, 

Glaze  is  a  highly  condensed  extract  of  meat.     It  is,  in 


ORAYY  AND  ONION  SAUCES.  263 

fact,  meat  yarnish  w  gltte,  and  the  cook's  glaze-pot  and 
brush  are,  in  character,  nearly  allied  to  those  of  the  cabi- 
net-maker. Make  a  strong  consommS^  for  which  see  Nos. 
60  and  62,  and  582.  Rapidly  boil  down  the  strong  pre- 
pared gravy  or  consommcy  stirring  constantly,  till  it  be- 
comes thickish  in  dropping  from  the  spoon  ;  then  pour  it 
into  a  smaller  saucepan,  and  still  boil  and  stir  till  it  is  a 
firm  jelly.  Veal  makes  the  best  jelly,  because  it  is  more 
gelatinous  than  other  meat ;  but  poultry  and  all  meat  yield 
more  or  less.  Where  required  on  a  large  scale,  glaze  is 
kept  in  bladdei*s  till  wanted. 

To  Gkize. — Dishes  to  be  glazed  should  first  be  well  dried 
on  the  surface.  Have,  on  the  small  scale,  the  glaze  melted 
in  a  small  jar  set  in  boiling  water,  and  brush  the  ham, 
tongue,  &c.,  to  be  glazed,  smoothly  over  with  one  coat : 
this  dried,  lay  on  another,  and  a  third  if  needful.  Mush- 
rooms, and  vegetables  in  general,  when  glazed^  look  better 
rather  lightly  done,  so  that  the  glaze  forms  rather  a  grace- 
ful veil  than  a  solid  varnish. 

Demi-^lace  is  made  of  a  mixture  of  two  parts  ricli  brown 
gravy,  one  part  of  consomnUy  and  a  veiy  small  propoi'tion 
of  glaze,  boiled  first  down  to  a  clear  light  glaze,  and  used 
as  the  basis  of  several  sauces. 
258.  WHITE  GRAVT  SAUCE,  the  French  Veloute^  or  white  Oullis, 

the  Basis  of  white  Sauces  for  Vegetables  and  white  Fri- 

casseeSy  S^c. 

Put  a  piece  of  the  best  end  of  a  knuckle  of  veal,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  sauce  wanted,  into  a  well  tinned 
stew-pan,  with  some  good  ham,  some  beef  cut  to  pieces, 
and  whatever  fresh  trimmings  of  game  or  poultry  the  lar- 
der affords.  Moisten  this  with  stock,  put  to  it  three  carrots 
and  four  onions,  parsley,  and  thyme,  and  some  chopped 
mushrooms,  but  no  lemon  or  acid  of  any  kind.  Let  the 
meat  sweat,  but  not  brown,  and  prick  it  to  let  the  juices 
flow.  When  the  knuckle  is  done  well  enough,  skim  the 
sauce ;  strain  through  a  lawn  sieve  ;  boil  it  again  till  well 
reduced,  and  add  to  it,  on  the  fire,  as  much  roux  blanche^ 
or  white  thickening,  (No.  253,)  ready  prepared,  as  will 
make  it  of  a  proper  consistence, — rather  thick  than  other- 
wise, as  it  can  easily  be  thinned.    Skim  it  and  boil  it  up 


264        CHAP.  IX. — SAUCES,  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

once  more,  stirring  it,  and  lifting  it  in  a  spoon,  and  letting 
it  fall  continually,  to  make  it  smooth  and  fine  ;  do  this  till 
it  cool.  This  useful  shinking  process,  which  the  French 
call  to  vanner  a  sauce,  has  no  name  in  English.  —  See 
Bechamel, 

N.B. — M.  Ude  suhstitutes  cream  for  r<mx  blanche  in  this 
sauce,  and  says  it  is  a  great  improvement.  In  appearance 
it  certainly  is  so. 

259.  Fennel  and  Butter^  Basil,  Burnec,  Cherml,  Tar- 
ragmiy  Cress  and  Butter,  are  all  prepared  for  sauces  according 
to  the  receipt  for  parsley  and  butter,  No.  251. — Ohs.  Tarragon, 
basil,  chervil,  rocambole,  and  burnet,  used  instead  of  parsley 
and  butter,  give  dishes  a  smack  of  foreign  cookery.  We 
would,  however,  recommend  a  cautious  use  of  burnet  and 
tarragon,  unless  the  taste  of  those  for  whom  the  sauces  are 
prepared  be  previously  ascertained.  Less  of  these  high- 
flavoured  herbs  should  be  employed  than  of  parsley.  It  is 
commendable  to  mix  a  little  parsley  with  fennel,  which  is 
too  powerful  by  itself.  Butter  melted  in  the  water  in  which 
bruised  celery  or  parsley  seeds  have  been  boiled,  will  take  the 
flavour  when  the  fresh  vegetables  cannot  be  got ;  the  seeds 
must  either  be  boiled  in  a  bag  or  strained  ofi^.  The  Essences 
of  most  herbs  are  now  prepared  for  sale,  and  are  very  use- 
ful to  the  cook.  The  flavour  of  the  above  herbs,  where 
acids  are  admissible  in  the  particular  sauce,  may  be  com- 
municated in  a  more  refined  form  to  melted  butter  by  the 
vinegars  with  which  they  are  tinctured. 

260.  Onion-Sauce,  —  Peel  and  throw  a  dozen  of  onions 
into  salt  and  water  to  prevent  their  blackening.  Boil  them 
in  plenty  of  water,  and,  if  they  are  very  acrid,  change  the 
water ;  chop  them  fine,  and,  with  a  wooden  spoon,  press 
them  through  a  sieve  ;  stir  them  into  thin  melted  butter, 
an.d  heat  up  the  sauce  :  or  roast  the  onions,  and  then  pulp 
them.  —  Obs,  If  for  tripe,  made -mustard  may  be  mixed 
with  this  sauce :  if  for  smothering  rabbits,  boiled  ducks,  &c., 
cream  may-  be  added.  Some  cooks  use  veal  or  clear  beef 
gravy  instead  of  melted  butter,  and  others  mash  a  turnip, 
or  apple,  or  white  beet,  along  with  the  onions,  where  the 
flavour  is  thought  too  strong.  Young  onions,  when  very 
small,  may  be  cooked  separately  and  served  whole  in  the 


ONION- SAUCE.  265 

sauce.  The  French  make  onion-sauce,  with  cream  or 
Bechamel  as  the  basis,  and  season  with  nutmeg,  or  mace, 
and  a  bay-leaf. 

261.  Brown  Onion-Sauce^ — This  is  a  highly-relishing 
sauce,  suitable  to  many  different  dishes,  and  a  general 
favourite  with  thorough-bred  gourmands  of  the  old  school. 
Slice  large  mild  onions,  brown  them  in  butter  over  a  slow 
fire,  add  good  brown  gravy,  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  a 
bit  of  butter  rolled  in  brown  fiour.  Skim  tliis,  and  put 
in  a  half-glass  of  Burgundy,  claret,  or  port,  the  same 
quantity  of  mushroom-catsup  ;  or,  if  moi*e  suitable  to  the 
dish  the  sauce  is  to  accompany,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  wal- 
nut-pickle, or  eschalot- vinegar,  to  give  piquance;  also 
essence  of  ham. — Obs.  lliis  standard  sauce  is  susceptible 
of  many  variations.  Onion^sattcCy  both  kinds,  may  be 
made  extempore  by  stirring  small  cooked  onions  into 
Bechamel  or  into  Brown  sauce. 

262.  To  dress  Onions  for  garnishing,  and  for  Bouilli,  &c. 
— Top  and  tail  small  firm  silver  onions  ;  blanch  and  peel 
them  ;  stew  them  in  good  stock  till  they  look  clear  and 
pulpy. — Ohs.  If  to  be  browned,  do  not  blanch,  but  at  once 
fry  ^em.  If  for  garnishing  houilliy  use  larger  onions  ;  put 
firo  over  the  stew-pan,  and  let  them  fall  to  a  glaze.  Pour 
a  little  stock  into  the  pan  to  float  off  the  gkLze,  which 
should  be  poured  over  the  beef.  If  onions  are  not  mild, 
put  a  bit  of  sugar  to  the  stock. 

263.  Sage  and  Onion  Sauce. — Chop  together  a  couple  of 
onions  and  eight  sprigs  of  sage  ;  stew  them  in  water  with 
salt,  and  in  five  minutes  add  bread-  crumbs ;  drain  off  a 
little  of  the  water  when  they  are  tender,  and  beat  up  and 
stir  in  melted  butter ;  add  pepper,  and,  if  for  goose-stufEng, 
a  little  flour,  or  crumbs. 

264.  Eschalot-Sauce, — Chop  of  eschalot  what  will  fill  a 
dessert-spoon  ;  give  this  a  scald,  drain  and  add  a  half-pint 
of  good  gravy  or  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and,  when 
done,  a  large  spoonful  of  vinegar.  The  eschalots  stewed 
in  mutton-broth,  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  arid 
some  vinegar,  make  an  excellent  sauce  for  boiled  mutton. 
Eschalot-sauce  may  be  made  as  directed  in  No.  251  {Parsley 
and  Butter y)  by  merely  stirring  a  little  eschalot- vinegar 
into  melted  butter,  with  salt ;  and  for  roast  meat  or  poultiy 


266       CHAP.  IX. — BAUCES)  BSSBNCBS,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

this  is  more  elegant  than  sauce  of  the  chopped  root. 
Carrter^sauce  for  mutton  is  made  hy  hoiling  chopped 
eschalots  in  gravy,  sharpened  with  vinegar,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Eschalot  enters  largely  into  the* 
composition  of  most  of  the  high-flavoured  compound  store 
sauces  made  for  sale. 

265.  Garlic  Sauce. — Make  this  with  a  spoonful  of  garlic- 
vinegar  stirred  into  a  half- pint  of  melted  Sutter ;  or  hlanch 
in  two  waters,  chop  and  pound  in  a  mortar  two  cloves  of 
garlic  with  a  hit  of  hutter,  or  a  very  little  oil,  and,  ruhhing 
the  paste  through  a  sieve,  simmer  it  in  the  hutter.* 

266.  Mayonnaise,  a  favourite  French  sauce,  for  serving 
with,  or  maskinffy  (t.  e,  pouring  over,)  cold  poultry ,  saladsy 
and  many  cold  dishes. — To  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  carefully 
separated  from  the  whites,  put  a  little  salt  and  white 
pepper,  and  drop  hy  drop  a  few  drops  of  vinegar ;  stir, 
ruh  hriskly  with  a  spoon ;  and  next,  add  drop  hy  drop  a 
spoonful  of  salad  oil,  stirring  and  rubhing  diligently.  When 
rubbed  quite  smooth,  and  of  the  consistence  of  a  thick 
cream,  add  gradually  three  wine  glasses  of  vinegar,  or  of 
eschalot,  cucumber,  tarragon,  or  Chili  vinegar,  or  part  of 
them,  whichever  is  best  adapted  to  the  dish  the  Mayon- 
naise is  to  sauce.  A  spoonful  of  veal  jelly  or  of  demi- 
glaze  is  a  great  improvement.  This  sauce  requires  great 
care  and  patience,  and  it  will  often  curdle  in  spite  of  all 
the  cook  can  do.  The  gradual  rubbing  of  the  yolks  is  the 
main  thing.  The  sauce  should  be  prepared  in  a  cool  place, 
or  over  ice.  A  spoonful  of  cold  water,  added  after  the 
vinegar,  will  help  to  whiten  it^  and  so  will  the  icing.  This 
sauce  is  made  ^ras,  with  four  hard-boiled  yolks  rubbed 
down,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  salad  oil  and  tarragon  vinegar, 
added  gradually  as  above  directed,  and  meat  jelly ;  rub 
long  and  well  over  ice,  to  make  it  smooth.  No.  236,  is  an 
excellent  salad  sauce,  and  is  poured  over,  or  served  with 
many  cold  dishes.    When  ^ras,  it  is  used  to  sauce  veal  or 

*  The  invention  of  the  following  garlic-sauce  is  attributed  to  Michael 
Kblly,  a  musical  composer  of  some  celebrity,  and  possessed  moreover 
of  some  skill  in  the  "  Harmonies  of  Meats.'*—"  For  boiled  tripe,  cow- 
heels,  or  calf's  head,  take  a  spoonful  of  garlic-vinegar  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  made-mustard,  brown  sugar,  and  black  pepper,  stir  these  into  a  half- 
pint  of  oiled  butter."    Jbkyll  pronounces  this beastly  ! 


MUSHBOOH,  AND  CBLERT  SAVGB8*  20? 

poultry,  re-wanned.  Varieties  of  it  are  made  by  the 
addition  of  cooked  and  chopped  fine  herbs,  or  spinage. 
We  give  the  most  refined  of  ihem  from  M.  Soyer. 

Mayonnaise  a  la  gelUe. — Put  a  quarter  pint  of  melted 
aspic  into  a  saucepan  upon  ice.    Whisk  till  it  become  a 
white  froth  :  add  by  slow  degrees,  first,  a  half  pint  of  salad 
oil,  and  then  six  spoonfuls  of  tarragon  vinegar,  continuaUy 
whisking  till  yon  have   a   sauce  like  a   smooth  white 
cream.     Season  with  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter 
one  of   white  pepper,  and  a  very  little  pounded   sugar. 
Whisk  once  more,  and  this  most  delicate  sauce  is  ready, 
and  may  be  dressed  pyramidically,  as  high  as  you  please. 
Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  till  served.     It  is  made  in  the 
same  way,  with  chopped  herbs  added :  choose  parsley, 
eschalots,  or  whatever  is  most  suitable. 
267.  Mushroom-sauce,  WHiT£,/br  FowU^  Vealy  RMits^  S^-c. 
— ^Pick  .and  wash  a  large  breakfast-cupful  of  small  button- 
mushrooms  ;  take  ofi^  the  leathery  skin  as  directed  in  No. 
214,  and  stew  them  in  Bechamel,  with  pepper,  cayenne, 
mace,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  a  good 
deal  of  flour  or  arrow-root  to  thicken,  as  the  abounding 
liquor  of  the  mushroom  requires  a  good  deal  of  thickening. 
Stew  till  tender,  stirring  them  now  and  then,  add  four 
spoonfuls  of  hot  cream,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fowls. 
Those  who  like  a  high  relish  of  mushroom  may  add  a 
spoonful  of  mushroom-juice,  (drawn  off  by  salting  a  few 
for  a  night,)  or  a  little  mushroom-powder.  —  Obs.    The 
mushrooms  may  be  stewed  in  thin  cream,  and  seasoned 
and  thickened  as  above.     Mushrooms  pickled  white  may 
supply  the  place  of  the  fresh  for  this  sauce.    Lay  them  first 
in  milk  for  a  little.     Brown  mushroom  sauce  is  made  by 
stewing  mushrooms  in  brown  gravy  and  adding  catsup. 

268.  CEJjBiLY'SAVCBy'WHTrE,  for  boiled  Fowls,  Turkey,  S^c, 
— ^Wash,  pare,  and  cut  down  in  thin  slices,  about  two 
inches  long,  three  or  four  heads  of  celery,  the  younger  the 
better.  Boil  it  till  tender  in  weak  broth  or  water,  and 
season  with  pounded  mace,  nutmeg  grated,  white  pepper, 
and  salt.  Thicken  with  white  rowe  or  a  good  piece  of 
butter  kneaded  in  flour,  or  a  liaison  of  two  yolks  of  eggs. 
The  juice  of  a  lemon  is  a  great  improvement,  or,  for  less 


268       CHAP.  IX. — SAUCES,  ESSENCES,  AKD  COin>IM£NTS. 

delicate  purposes,  a  little  lemon-pickle.  —  Obs,  French 
cooks  stew  the  chopped  celery  in  stock,  with  suet  or  fat 
bacon,  and  use  very  little  seasoning,  which  they  justly 
think  unsuitable,  celery  possessing  so  decided  a  flavour  of 
its  own.  A  pur^e  of  celery  is  made  by  boiling  twelve 
heads,  cut  down,  till^ tender;  draining,  chopping,  and  stew* 
ing  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  Bechamel, 
and  a  pint  of  milk,  passing  through  a  tammy,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  serving  very  hot. 

269.  Brown  Celery-Sattce,  — -  Stew  and  season  as  in  the 
receipt  No.  268,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  add  a 
glass  of  red  wine  and  a  spoonful  of  catsup.  —  See  Peases 
Sauce. 

270.  Horser<»dish-Sauce,  White  and  Brown,  —  Grate  a 
tea-cupful  of  horseradish ;  if  for  a  white  sauce  add  bread- 
crumbs and  salt,  and  put  to  this  vinegar.  For  Brown- sauce 
stir  the  horseradish  in  brown  gravy,  and  add  a  little  vinegar, 
salt,  sugar,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  made-mustard ;  or  use 
vinegar  alone  without  gravy. 

271.  Mint-Sauce /or  hot  or  cold  Roast  Lamh,  —  Wash 
a  small  quantity  of  young  mint ;  pick  ofi^  the  leaves,  and 
have  a  wine-glassful  very  finely  minced,  to  which  add,  in 
the  sauce-boat,  vinegar  enough  to  thin  the  sauce,  and  sugar, 
to  taste. 

272.  For  Cucumber -Sauce,  see  Stewed  Cucumbers^  No.  210. 

273.  Sorrel-Sauce.  —  Stew  two  handfuls  of  blanched 
sorrel  very  slowly,  with  a  good  bit  of  butter  oiled.  Season 
it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne  ;  add  a  little  strong  gravy, 
and  beat  it  well.  Make  it  very  hot,  and  serve  below  or 
with  roast  lamb,  veal,  sweetbreads,  &c. — See  No.  212. 

274.  Tomata-Sauce. — Take  from  ten  to  fifteen  ripe 
tomatas,  or  fewer,  according  to  the  size ;  put  them  into  a 
jar,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  oven.  When  they  are  soft  take 
off  the  skins,  pick  out  the  seeds,  and  mix  the  pulp  with  a 
capsicum,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  very  little  vinegar, 
ginger,  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and  salt ;  pulp  this  through 
a  sieve,  and  simmer  it  for  a  few  minutes.  Beetroot  juice 
13  used  to  improve  the  colour.  Imitation  of  Tom<U€h8aiice 
is  made  by  roasted  apples,  properly  seasoned  and  coloured 
with  turmeric.  —  Ohs.    In  Tomata   sauce  French  cooks 


AFPLE-SAUCB,  &C.  269 

stew  an  onion,  a  piece  of  ham,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a 
bay-leaf,  and  use  top-fat,  or  a  rich  cuUis,  to  moisten  the 
ingredients.    Good  practice. 

275.  Apple-Sauce, — Pare,  core,  and  slice  four  or  five 
juicy  baking-apples,  and  roast  them  ;  or  simmer  them  in 
a  saucepan,  with  a  little  water  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing, and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel  and  sugar  to  taste.  Take 
care  they  do  not  bum,  and  when  quite  soft,  pour  off  the 
superfluous  moisture,  and  beat  them  up  with  pounded 
sugar  to  taste,  and  a  small  bit  of  butter.  Roasting  is  both 
best  and  easiest.  Bread  crumbs  or  panada  may  be  added. 
If  for  goose  or  pig,  much  sugar  is  objectionable.  For 
brown  apple-sauce,  stew  the  pared  fruit,  drain,  and  add 
brown  gravy ;  heat  up  and  season  highly  with  cayenne 
and  pepper.  '  This  suits  many  tastes  better  than  the  com- 
mon apple-sauce. 

276.  Goastherfy-Sauce, — Clip  away  the  tops  and  tails  of 
a  breakfast- cupful  of  small  green  gooseberries ;  scald  them, 
drain  them,  and  stir  them  into  melted  butter,  with  a  little 
sorrel-juice  or  vinegar.  A  little  ginger  may  be  added. 
The  scalded  gooseberries  may  also  be  served  mashed  T^ith 
sugar  and  seasonings. 

277.  Caper^Sauce. — Take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  capers 
and  a  very  little  of  their  vinegar.  Mince  the  one-half,  and 
stir  the  whole  of  them  into  a  half-pint  of  melted  butter,  or 
of  strong  thickened  gravy.  To  prevent  the  butter  from 
oiling,  stir  the  sauce  for  some  time.  When  wanted  very 
poignant,  lemon-juice  may  be  added  to  this  simple  and 
tasteful  sauce,  or  it  may  be  flavoured  with  tarragon  or 
Chili  vinegar.  If  for  flsh,  as  skate,  &c*  a  little  essence  of 
anchovy  will  be  found  an  improvement,  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste. 

278.  Mock  Caper-Sa/Hce  is  made  of  gherkins  or  nastur- 
tiums cut  in  bits,  with  lemon-juice  and  melted  butter.  It 
is  also  made  of  radish  seed-pods. 

279.  Bechamely  or  French  White  Sauce. — Cut  two  pounds 
of  the  lean  of  a  breast  or  knuckle  of  white  veal,  and  a 
quarter-pound  of  lean  fresh  bacon,  into  small  bits.  Melt 
some  butter  in  a  deep  saucepan,  and  put  in  the  meat  to  draw 
a  little,  and  to  whiten,  not  to  brotvn.    Mix  two  spoonfuls  of 


■nA*>^<*^4i^MJM«>-iJifcHWM-fr*i^i*^^*i^BM^Ifi«^f>a«4f^rtiik*   -^^  - 


270       CHAP.  IX. — ^SAUCES,  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENIS. 

fine  rice-flour  very  smooth  with  pure  water,  and  then  put 
in  a  quart  of  clear  stock  made  of  veal,  or  as  much  water  or 
milk.  Let  this  stew  very  gently  with  the  meat,  over  a 
chafing-dish,  or  hy  the  side  of  the  fire,  for  an  hour  and  a 
half;  having  first  seasoned  it  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
white  peppercorns,  an  onion,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
lemon-thyme,  ajid  a  hit  of  lemon-peel.  Let  the  sauce 
settle,  strain  it,  and  stir  in  a  cupful  of  rich  hot  cream. 
Bring  it  to  boil,  and  strain  it  once  more. — A  cheaper  white 
sauce^  to  pour  over  boiled  fowls,  may  be  made  of  stock  and 
sweet  milk,  thickened  and  sea.9oned  as  above,  and  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  well  beat  and  stirred  gradually  into  it  when  just 
ready.  A  few  chopped  mushrooms  will  improve. this 
sauce,  if  for  /owls.  The  Bechamel^  before  the  cream  is 
added,  is  a  white  cullis,  fit  for  adding  to  white  ragouts, 
fricassees,  and  hashes  of  veal.  It  is  also  a  rich  basis  for 
all  savoury  white  sauces,  and  for  dressed  vegetables. — See 
Dishes  d  la  Bechamel,  French  Cookery^ 

280.  Vinegaret  far  cold  MeaJt  or  Fowl, — Chop  young 
miftt,  parsley,  and  eschalot  together,  and  mix  them  up 
with  salt,  salad  oil,  and  good  vinegar. 

281.  Tartar  Sauce, — ^Add  to  vinegaret,  No.  280,  chopped 
chervil  and  tarragon,  with  a  little  made-mustard. 

282.  Lemon-Satbce. — Pare  a  lemon,  taking  off  all  the 
white  part ;  cut  it  in  half-inch  slices,  pick  out  the  seeds, 
and  on  a  plate  cut  the  slices  into  dice,  and  mix  them  with 
melted  butter,  taking  care  to  stir  it  up  lest  it  oil. 

283.  Miser^s  Sauce, — Chop  two  onions,  and  mix  them  - 
with  pepper,  salt,  vinegar,   and  a  little  melted   butter. 
When  made  with   oil   and  young   onions,  add   a  little 
minced  parsley  and  scraped  horseradish. 

284.  Poor  Man's  Sauce,  to  serve  with  Turkey  Poults  or 
griUed  Birds, — a  French  Sauce, — Mince  a  little  parsley 
and  a  few  eschalots.  Stew  this  in  stock  or  water,  and  add 
vinegar  and  pepper. 

285.  Carach-Sauce, — Mix  a  little  pounded  garlic  with 
cayenne,  soy,  and  walnut-pickle,  in  good  vinegar. 

OTHER  SAUCES  FOR  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Most  of  the  common  sauces  for  poultry  have  been 
described  under  other  heads.    These  are  principally  white- 


SAUCES  FUR  POULTRY  AND  6AMB.  2?I 

sattce^  egg-aaucey  apple-sauce^  rice-saueey  lemon-sauce,  celery- 
eaucey  goosd^erfy-sauce,  and  mushroonhsauce ;  but  a  few  of 
the  more  rich  and  delicate  remain  to  be  given. 
:  286.  Bread-Sauce, — ^Put  grated  crumbs  into  a  small 
saucepan,  and  pour  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  fowls, 
mutton,  or  veal  have  been  boiled,  over  this.  When  it  has 
soaked,  simmer  it  with  a  sliced  onion,  white  peppercorns, 
salt,  and  mace :  take  out  the  onion  and  peppercorns,  and 
add  cream  or  melted  butter. — Another  Bread-Sauce. — ^Pour 
a  half-pint  or  more  of  boiling  milk  over  a  breakfast  cup- 
ful of  stale  bread  in  crumbs  in  a  jug :  cover  tMs,  and  in 
twenty  minutes  at  soonest,  beat  it  up  in  a  nice  enamelled 
saucepan,  adding  a  good  bit  of  butt^r  and  salt,  Cayenne 
and  mace  to  taste.  Add  as  much  boiling  cream  or  milk 
as  Will  thin  it ;  boil  up  and  serve. 

287.  Rice-Sauce, — Stew  two  ounces  of  blanched  rice  in 
milk,  with  an  onion,  white  peppercorns,  and  a  little  salt. 
Take  out  the  peppercorns  and  onion,  and  rub  the  rice 
through  a  colander.  Heat  it  up  with  more  milk  or  cream, 
and  flavour  it  as  above.  This  looks  whiter,  but  it  is  not 
so  light  as  bread-sauce.     Butter  may  be  put  to  it. 

288.  Egg-Sauce  for  saU  Fishy  roasted  PouUryy  S^, — Boil 
three  or  four  eggs  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Dip  them  in 
cold  water,  and  then  roll  them  quickly  under  your  hand 
to  make  the  shell  come  easily  off.  Chop  the  yolks  by 
themselves  into  little  half-inch  cubes,  and  cut  the  white  of 
one  e^^  in  the  same  manner.  Stir  first  the  white  and 
then  the  yolks  into  thinnish  melted  butter  in  the  tureen. 

289.  Our  Own  Sauce  for  GamCy — or  Orange-Grraty, — A 
half-pint  of  claret,  and  the  same  quantity  of  good  brown- 
gravy. — Make  the  gravy  boil,  put  the  wine  to  it,  with 
pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  the  strained  juice  of  two  Seville 
oranges,  or  one  orange  and  a  lemon.  Let  them  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes,  and,  pouring  some  over  the  game,  serve 
the  rest  very  hot  in  a  sauce-boat. — Obs,  This  is  an  elegant 
sauce  for  any  sort  of  winged  game.  A  French  cQ0k  would 
use  some  of  the  thin  rind  or  zest  of  the  lemon,  and  less  of 
the  juice. 

290.  Pleydel's  Sauce  for  Wild  Ducky  Tealy  and  Widgeons, 
— To  a  large  quarter-pint  of  savoury  brown-gravy,  put  a 


272        CHAP.  IX. — SAUCES,  BSSENGES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

glass  of  claret  or  port ;  pepper,  salt,  cayenne  to  taste,  and  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  finely-shred  eschalot.  Make  this  hot, 
and  pour  it  over  the  ducks. — Ohs,  In  making  this  sauce, 
if  for  the  oily,  rank,  and  fishy-tasted  water-fowl,  made- 
mustard  may  be  added,  and  a  higher  seasoning  of  eschalot 
and  onion,  with  walnut-pickle,  or  a  little  essence  of 
anchovy.  Wild  geese,  solan  geese,  mallards,  &c.  require  a 
pungent  sauce. 

291.  Dr.  Hunter's  Sauce  for  cold  Partridge^  or  cold 
Meat  of  any  kind, — Rub  down  the  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled 
^%  with  salad  oil  and  vinegar  ;  add  a  very  little  anchovy- 
liquor,  some  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and  eschalot, 
both  chopped  smalL-e-OJ*.  This  is  a  good  extemporaneous 
sauce.     It  is  excellent  for  cold  lobster  or  crabs. 

291.*  Olive- Sauce  forDiicks  a^nd  Beef-SteaJcs. — Care- 
fully stone  a  quarter-pound  of  olives  by  paring  the  fruit 
round  in  ribbons,  so  that  the  olives  may  recover  shape 
when  stoned.  Blanch  them,  and  throw  them  into  cold 
water,  and  let  them  soak  till  freshened,  when  stew  slowly 
for  a  half-hour  in  a  half-pint  of  brown  gravy.  Add  more 
gravy,  if  needed.  A  squeeze  of  lemon  is  sometimes  added, 
but  being  disapproved  by  those  who  like  the  native  flavour 
of  the  olive,  may  be  given  at  table. 

291.*  Ckestnut'Sauce  for  Turkey  and  Fowh^  White 
and  Brown. — Throw  half  a  pound  of  fresh  chestnuts, 
stripped  of  the  outer  rind,  into  boiling  water :  scald  for  five 
minutes,  and  peel  them.  Stew  them  till  quite  tender  in 
veal  gravy,  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  and  rub  them  with 
the  gravy  through  a  hair-sieve,  as  if  pulping  peas.  Sea- 
son with  white  pepper  and  cayenne,  and  add  a  large  glass 
of  cream.  Just  boil  up  the  sauce,  stirring  it  till  it  boil, 
and  serve.  The  Brown  Sauce  is  stewed  in  rich  brown 
gravy,  is  more  poignantly  seasoned,  and  has  no  cream. 

292.  Redgill's  Sauce  for  Stubble  Goose^  roasted  Pork 
or  Pork  Chops ^  also  called  Dr.  Hunter's  Sauce, — Make 
a  quarter-pint,  or  rather  more,  of  savoury  brown-gravy, 
or  melted  butter,  very  hot ;  thicken  it  with  a  little 
browned  flour,  and  put  to  it  a  large  glass  of  claret  or  port 
wine,  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard,  and  salt,  pep- 
per, and  cayenne  to  taste.     Simmer  it  a  few  minutes,  and 


SAUCES  FOR  POULTRY,  aAHB,  AND  TENISON.  273 

serve  it  very  hot. — Obs:  For  the  wine,  or  part  of  it,  may 
occasionally  be  substituted  mushroom  or  walnut  pickle, 
and  a  little  chopped  green  sage  may  be  added.  Hard  yolks 
of  eggs  rubbed  smooth  in  the  sauce  make  a  good  variety 
of  the  above. 

293.  Sauce  Robert^  for  Pork^  Mutton  Cutlets^  Geese^ 
Spc, — Brown  four  or  five  onions  very  finely  shred,  in  a 
small  saucepan,  with  a  good  piece  of  butter.  When  of  a 
fine  rich  brown,  mix  in  a  table-spoonful  of  browned  flour, 
one  of  mushroom-catsup,  and  two  of  red  wine,  with  a  half- 
pint  of  stock,  a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper,  and  one  of  salt, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
or  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Chili  vinegar. — Obs^  This  sauce 
is  named  after  the  inventor,  as  we  say,  Maintenon  cutlets> 
or  Sandwiches,  It  is  a  favourite  sauce.  Tarragon  vine- 
gar will  give  it  the  flavour  of  the  French  kitchen,  which 
to  some  gourmands  may  be  a  recommendation  even  as  an 
accompaniment  to  plain  English  fare.  This  sauce  is  eaten 
With  rump  steaks,  whether  stewed  or  broiled.  Pour  it  hot 
over  them,  and  garnish  with  scraped  horseradish  or  fried 
parsley. 

294.  AN  EXCELLENT  WHITE  SAUCE,  foT  frtco^seed  Babbits^ 
FowU^  Veal,  Whitings^  Sfc. 

To  a  half-pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  fowls,  veal,  or 
trimmings  of  these,  have  been  boiled,  put  a  bit  of  lemon- 
peel,  an  onion  sliced,  six  white  peppercorns,  a  pounded 
blade  of  mace  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  and  a  small  bunch 
of  lemon-thyme,  basil,  and  parsley.  When  the  sauce  is 
well  flavoured,  strain  it,  add  a  little  rich  creamy  a<  bit  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and,  last  of  all,  a  squeeze  of-  l«mon, 
taking  care  to  stir  the  sauce  lest  the  cream  curdle.  Pour 
it  over  the  fricassee. 

295.  Lemon  and  lAver  Sauce  for  Fowls, — Parboil  the 
liver  of  the  fowl,  having  first  washed  and  scored  it ;  mince 
it  very  fine.  Pare  a  lemon  very  thin,  as  if  for  punch ; 
take  off  the  white  part.,  and  cut  the  lemon  into  small  dice, 
picking  out  the  seeds.  Mince  about  a  fourth  part  of  the 
peel  very  fine,  and  put  these  ingredients,  with  a  little  salt, 
to  a  half-pint  of  melted  butter.  Let  them  heat  up,  but 
not  boil,  lest  the  butter  oil. — Obs.  Liver  and  parsl&f  same 

S 


274      CHAF.  IX.-^SiLUCi»,  B88ENCB8y  AND  C0ia>IM£NT8. 

18  a  good  oommoD  sauce,  and  is  made  by  parboiling  the 
parsley  and  liyer ;  and^  after  they  are  separately  ininoedy 
stirring  them  in  melted  butter, 

296.  The  Marquiis  Sauce  far  Wild  Fiwk^^A  glass  of 
claret,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  the  same  of  lemon-juice,  a 
minced  eschalot,  a  few  thin  slices  of  lemon-rind,  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne,  two  blades  of  mace  pounded,  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  the  essence  sold  at  the  shops  under  the 
name  of  Same  d  la  Mwge*  Simmer  th^se  ingredients  for 
'a  few  minutes,  and  strain  them  to  the  grary  which  cornea 
from  the  wild-fowl  in  roasting^  Place  the  fowl  on  a  dish 
heated  by  a  lamp,  and  cut  it  up,  so  that  the  gravy  as  \% 
flows  out  may  simmer  with  the-  sance»--<-(^*  The  above 
aBHOeur  preparation  is  much  admiiedi.  The  gravy  of 
wild-fowl  >«  often  scanty;  but  butter,  or  meat-gravy, 
would  hurt  the  wild  flavour.  Qame-gnwif  may,  however, 
be  made  byiE»ar-roa«^ti^,  and  then  stewing  a  partridge  or 
grouse,  by  those  who  hesitate  at  no  e:s:pense  in  the  grati^^ 
cation  of  the  palate*  This  essence  of  game^  French  artisj^ 
procure  by  slowly  stewing  partridges  in  a  vessel  closely 
covered,  till  they  yield  a  strong  consent* 

297*    V£NIS0N-SAI7C1£. 

Venison  may  have  a  sweet,  a  sharp,  or  a  savoury  sauce* 
>*-  Sharp  Sauce.  A  quarter-pound  of  the  best  loaf-sugar, 
or  white  candy-sugar,  dissolved  in  a  half-pint  of  Cham- 
pagne vinegar,  and  carefully  skimmed, -^ /SWee^  Saucer 
Melt  some  white  «r  red  currant- jelly  with  a  glass  of  white  or 
red  wine,  whichever  suits  best  in  colour  ;  or  serve  the  jelly 
unmelted  in  a  sauce  tureen.  This  last  sauce  answers  wqH 
for  hare,  fawn,  or  kid,  and  for  roast  mutton  to  many 
tastes.  We  consider  currant-jelly,  worked  cold,  very 
superior  for  venison-sauce  to  boiled  jelly,  though  les^ 
transparent.  Melori-picile  we  reckon  better  still  for 
either  roast  venison  or  mutton.  It  is  made  thus :— Pare, 
seed,  and  slice  two  or  three  rather  unripe  small  melpns  ; 
soak  them  in  vinegar  for  a  week  or  ten  days ;  drain  off 
and  simmer  the  slices  in  fresh  vinegar  till  as  tender  as 
pickled  beet  ;  again  drain,  and  leave  the  slices  on  th^e 
sieve  reversed ;  and  when  dry,  put  the«i  xiito  H  pickle 
ihottle,  and  pour  over  them  $b  Uiin  syrup^  made  }»  ibfi 


HASH  SAUCES*  275 

pToportion  of  a  pint  of  water  to  twelve  ounces  of  sngar, 
and  in  which  some  cloves  have  been  infused.  Let  them 
soak  in  the  syrap  for  a  week  or  more,  and,  pouring  the 
half  of  it  off  tiiem,  fill  up  the  bottles  with  the  best  vine* 
gar,  which,  as  for  all  pickles  to  keep,  is  boiled  and  left  to 
get  quite  oold.-<— ^S^ro^ybr  Vmi$on.  Make  a  pint  of  gravy 
of  trimmings  of  venison,  or  shanks  of  mutton,  thus :  — v 
Broil  the  meat  on  a  quick  fire  till  it  is  browned,  then  stew 
it  slowly.  Skim,  strain,  and  serve  the  gravy  it  yidds, 
adding  salt  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  walnut-pickle.-*^ootif3r 
VmmoH'Sauc€3y  see  pp.  Ill,  112. — In  the  north  of  Europe 
a  sauce  of  the  whortleberry  is  used  for  venison  and  other 
meats. 

298.  TunTLB  Stohe-Saucb,  t0  flavour  Ra^ouU,  Hash€$^ 
tawntiry  PatUuy  8ovp9y  Pie$^  <Sfc. — A  quarter-pint  of  strong 
mushroom-catsup,  the  same  of  basil-wine  and  of  eschalot* 
wine,  a  large  glassful  of  the  essence  of  anchovies,  an  ounce 
of  lemon-peel  sliced  thin,  concrete  of  lemon  one  drachm, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  the  best  cayenne.  Infuse  for 
ten  days,  strain  off  and  bottle  the  essence,  which  is  very 
powerful  and  very  much  relished. 

299.  Turtle- Saucb,  far  C<df%  Emd  or  Feet^  stewed 
Knuckle  of  Veal^  Gristlee^  S^,  —  To  a  pint  of  beef  or  veal 
gravy  add  two  spoonfuls  of  the  above  turtle  store-sauce, 
and  a  little  essence  of  anchovy. 

300.  A  Store-Sauce,  to  flavour  tke  Crraoy  of  Steaks^ 
Ckopsy  or  roast  Meat.  — *  Infuse  in  a  half-pint  of  walnutr 
pickle,  and  th^  same  quantity  of  mushroom  or  oyster 
catsup,  a  half-ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper  in  fine  powder, 
with  a  salt-spoonful  of  cayenne,  half  an  ounce  of  scraped 
horseradish,  and  the  same  weight  of  minced  eschalot.  Let 
these  ingredients  steep  ten  days,  and  strain  and  bottle 
them.  A  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy  may  be  added, 
or  a  little  bruised  mustard-seed.  —  Obs.  This  is  a  cheap 
and  high-flavoured  relish,  and  will  be  found  useful  at  all 
times  for  seasoning  either  melted  butter  or  the  gravy  that 
flows  from  chops,  steaks,  &c. 

301.  Currie-Sauos.  —  This  sauce  is  plainly  made  by 
mixing  eurrie-powder  with  melted  butter.  It  is  mo^ 
^neri^y  relished  if  mixed  with  white  onion-sauce  ;  or,  if 


276       CHAP.  IX. — SAUCBS,  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

wanted  of  high  flavour,  with  brown  onion  gravy-sauce. 
When  liked  more  piquant,  Chili  vinegar  may  be  added  to 
the  sauce.  French  cooks  use  saffron  to  colour  currie-* 
sauce  and  rice  for  curries,  boiling  the  saffron,  and  rubbing 
it  through  a  sieve.  Where  a  bright  colour  alone  is  desir- 
able, a  tincture  of  saffron  is  less  offensive  than  an  over-dose 
of  turmeric.  Saffron  is  often  used  to  colour  cakes,  puddings, 
&c. ;  but  should  be  used  with  caution. 

^2.  Chetney  or  ChaitfU, — This,  like  currie-powder,  is  a 
compound  Indian  preparation,  made  in  twenty  ways.  It 
can  now  be  got  from  the  East,  and  is  well  prepared  in  the 
great  Italian  warehouses  of  London.  The  following  is 
thought  a  good  receipt :  —  A  half  pound  of  crab-apples, 
unripe  bullaces,  or  quinces  ;  four  ounces  of  stoned  raisins ; 
four  of  treacle  or  brown  sugar ;  two  of  best  white  ginger 
in  powder  ;  one  of  chilies,  with  salt  enough  to  make  the 
whole  rather  salt,  and  cayenne  to  make  it  very  hot. 
Pound  the  hard  ingredients  separately,  add  the  sugar  and 
spices,  and  as  much  plain  or  Chili  vinegar,  or  lemon-juice, 
as  will  make  the  sauce  of  the  consistence  of  thin  mustard. 
Mangoes,  tamarinds,  garlic,  berries  of  the  mountain-ash, 
sloes,  and  many  pungent  and  bitter  things,  are  occa- 
sionally put  to  this  composition.  The  main  ingredient 
of  the  Bengal  Chetney  is  a  vegetable  resembling  parsley,  of 
a  very  disagreeable  odour.     It  is  called  cotemear, 

303.  White  Hash-Sauce, /or  Veal  roasted  or  minced^ 
or  for  Fowls.  —  Take  the  bones,  gristles,  and  white  trim- 
mings of  the  meat,  and  stew  them  in  clear  weak  broth  or 
water,  a  small  onion,  and  a  good  piece  of  thinly-sliced 
lemon-peel,  salt,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  dozen  white 
peppercorns.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  rolled  in 
butter,  and  when  it  is  boiled  quite  smooth,  let  it  settle, 
and  strain  it.  A  good  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a  little  fresh 
lemon-grate,  is  the  only  additional  seasoning  we  would 
recommend ;  a  spoonful  of  good  cream  may  be  added ; 
and  for  fowls,  a  little  more  mace  and  less  acid.  This  may 
be  made  a  currie-hash^  by  adding  a  small  dessert-spoonful 
of  currie-powder,  and  withholding  part  of  th6  lemon-juice 
and  peel. 

304.  CusTARD-SAUcB,/or  Rice^  Breads  SagOy  or  Custard 


PUDDINQ-SAUCB8.  277 

Puddings^  or  Fruit  Pies, — Stir  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  in 
a  very  clean  saucepan  till  it  comes  to  boil.  Mix  with  it 
the  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs,  first  rubbed  with  a  litUe  cold 
cream,  and  some  finely-pounded  sugar ;  pour  backwards 
and  forwards  from  the  saucepan  to  a  basin  to  prevent 
curdling,  and  let  it  just  come  to  the  eve  of  boiling,  con- 
stantly stirring  it.  Serve  the  sauce  in  a  tureen  or  china 
basin,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  the  top  of  it.  Butter 
and  rice-flour  may  be  added  to  thicken  it. 

305.  Caudle,  OB  Wine  Sauce,  ^r  a  Plum  or  Marrow 
Pudding.  —  A  glass  of  white  wine,  a  half-glass  of  lemon 
brandy,  old  rum,  or  rum-shrub,  pounded  sugar  to  taste, 
the  grate  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  cinnamon,  stirred  into  a 
little  thickened  melted  butter ;  sprinkle  a  little  cinnamon 
or  nutmeg  on  the  top. 

306.  Pudding- Sauce,  and  a  Store  Puddino-Sauce.  — 
Heat  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  sweetened  to  taste  with 
pounded  loaf-sugar ;  and  with  this,  as  making  custard,  mix 
the  beat  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Mill  the  sauce  over  a  slow 
heat  till  it  thickens  ;  add  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon 
and  of  lemon-peel.  —  N.B.  The  brandy,  or  KircheniDosser^ 
got  from  abroad,  which  is  half  cherry-juice  sweetened,  is 
excellent  for  fat  pudding-sauces.  Thicken  it  with  e^^  or 
cream.  —  A  Store-Sauce,  A  pint  of  canary,  sherry,  or 
Madeira,  a  quarter-pint  of  old  rum,  (pine-apple  is  best,) 
or  of  good  brandy ;  a  quarter-pint  of  Cura9oa,  a  half- 
ounce  of  good  lemon-peel,  the  same  quantity  of  Seville 
orange-peel,  and  half  an  ounce  of  mace.  Infuse  this  for 
ten  days,  shaking  the  bottle  every  day.  Strain  it,  and 
add  a  half-pint  of  rich  clarified  syrup.  Bottle  for  use. 
This  may  be  mixed  with  wine,  cream,  thin  syrup,  eau 
sucrSy  &c.  for  a  saucQ  to  many  sorts  of  puddings  and 
sweet  made-dishes. 

307.  Essence  op  Ham,  or  Ham-Sauce.  —  This  may  be 
bought  in  London  and  other  large  cities.  In  coilntry 
situations,  a  highly-flavoured  gravy,  which  is  a  great 
improvement  to  other  gravies  for  plain  purposes,  may  be 
made  by  breaking  ham -bones  to  pieces,  and  cutting  down 
all  the  good  pickings  left  on  them.  Let  this  just  catch 
over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  first  adding 


^8       CHAP.  IX. — BAUCBS,  BBBBirCES)  A)n>  CONDIMENTS. 

bntter  or  metArgtary^  (jelly-gravy  if  yon  have  it,)  and 
stirring  it  lest  the  meat  and  bones  bum.  When  the  ham 
has  been  treated  in  this  way  some  time,  add  stock,  a 
bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  onion  and  peppercorns  ;  strain 
it  for  use.  —  Ofe».  A  few  receipts  far  Smcea  will  be  found 
ahng  with  the  reeipts  for  the  dishes  thiy  are  to  accompany 4 
Grary-satice  for  roast-meat,  pp.  106-113.  Sauce  for  tripe 
and  cow-heel,  page  99.  Sance  for  a  pig,  page  108.  For 
roast  venison,  pp.  111,112.  Sance  for  pork-chops,  page  134. 
■  Sec  Drappit  Eg^ — National  Dishes^  and  French  Cookery, 

SAUCES  OT  SHELL-FISH,  AND  FISH  SAUCES. 

808.  Lobster-Sauce,  or  Crab-Sauce, />r  Titrbot,  S^c. — 
For  sauce  you  must  have  a  hen  lobster,  fresh  (alive  if  pos- 
sible) and  full  of  spawn.  When  boiled,  pound  the  spawn 
or  coral  with  a  bit  of  butter,  or  a  very  little  oil.  In  nice 
cookery  reject  the  coarse  outer  spawn.  Rub  through  a 
sieve  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of  melted  butter,  and  vox 
it  smooth ;  season  -with  cayenne.  Cut  the  mieat  of  the 
tail,  Sec.  into  small  dice,  and  put  these  to  the  sauce,  which 
may  be  heated  up,  but  not  boiled,  or  the  colour  will  spoil. 
This  sauce  is  rendered  more  piquant  by  anchovies,  cavice, 
catsup,  spices,  walnut  or  lemon  pickles,  &c. ;  but  for  fresh 
fish  it  is,  we  think,  better  unmixed  with  overpowering 
foreign  flavours.  Besides,  these  and  other  additions  can  be 
made  at  table.  A  little  cream,  first  boiled,  should  be  put 
to  this  sauce. 

309.  Crab  Saiiee  is  made  nearly  as  above.  Pick  the 
Aieat  from  the  great  and  small  claws,  and  a  little  of  the 
soft  inside  when  not  watery  i  stir  this  into  melted  butter.* 
-^Obs.  Lobsters  for  sauce  may  be  preserved  potted,  and  the 
live  spawn  may  be  kept  in  brine,  or  in  an  ice-house. — 
Sauces  for  Lobsters,  page  217.  A  sprinkling*of  the  red 
coral  rubbed  through  a  sieve  makes,  mixed  with  curled 
parsley,  a  pretty  garnish  to  tutbot,  halibut,  or  other  white 
fish,  especially  if  diey  are  cracked  in  the  boiling. 

310.  Sauce  d.  VAurore,  —  This  kind  of  lobster-sauce  is 
made  of  the  spawn  only.     Pound  the  spawn  with  butter ; 

*  The  inside  meat  of  the  small  erahs,  Seattici  caries,  makes  most 
delicate  fish  saaoe,  inferior  only  in  name  to  lohster-saace.  A  spoon- 
ful of  Harvey  is  a  capital  addition  to  most  of  the  fish  sauces. — P.  T. 


OTSTSB-^iLtlCS.  279 

fttb  ii  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  thin  it  with  a  little 
clear  broth  ;  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon-jiiice. 
-->0A9r  This  is  served  in  France  with  trout  or  soles. 

311.  Oyaet-Saiuce^  far  hoiUd  Turkey,  FiO,  <i^---Open 
the  oysters  when  yon  are  Just  ready  to  make  the  sance ; 
save  their  lienor,  strain  it,  and  pnt  it  to  them,  and  give 
them  a  scald  in  i^  and  a  soft  boil.  Take  them  up  widi  a 
spoon  with  holes,  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Let  the  liquor 
settle:  pour  it  off  the  sediment.  After  picking  and 
bearding  them  one  by  one,  return  them  into  a  stew-pan^ 
in  which  there  must  be  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pint  of 
very  thick  melted  butter  to  two  dozen  of  oysters,  or  to 
eighteen  large  cut  ones.  Strain  the  liquor  over  them :  — 
or,  letting  them  come  to  boil,  set  them  in  a  ham  marie  or 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  that  they  may  becinne  tender : 
quick  boiling  hardens  oysters.  When  ready,  stir  in  a 
spoonful  of  cream.  A  squeeze  of  lemon-juioe  is  a  simple 
and  tasteful  addition.  Some  cooks  add  mace,  nutmeg,  and 
if  for  fish,  anchovy,  &c.,  when  a  piquant  sauce  is  wanted.-^ 
Ohg.  In  oyster  sauce,  it  is  a  frequent  and  good  practice, 
both  from  reasons  of  economy  and  palaiie  motives,  to 
serve  stewed  oysters  in  one  sauce-tureen,  and  melted  butter 
in  uiother.  The  quantities  can  then  be  mixed  on  the 
plate  of  each  guest,  and  the  oysters  left  may  be  afterwards 
grilled,  scalloped,  &c.  Besides,  it  is  the  only  way  by 
which  one  can  always  escape  the  cook's  detestable  over-dose 
of  flour.  French  cooks  put  flour  and  milk  to  oyster-sauce, 
and  very  little  butter.  Our  English  oyster-sauce  and 
flsh-cookery  in  general,  is  much  superior. 

312.  Shrtrnp-Sauee  and  Goekle-Sauee, — Shell  and  wash 
the  fish  carefully,  and  simmer  them  for  a  few  seconds  in 
thick  melted  butter:  add  a  small  spoonful  of  boiling  cream. 
A  squeeze  of  lemon  and  a  little  cayenne  is  the  only  addi- 
tion we  can  recommend  for  shrimps^  though  various  pun- 
gent flavours  are  added  to  this  simple  and  agreeable  sauce. 

313.  Anchasy^Sauee, — Bone  and  pound  some  anchovies 
very  smooth  with  a  bit  of  butter;  stir  this  into  thick 
melted  butter,  in  the  proportion  of  three  anchovies  to  the 
half-pint: — or  melt  them  in  vinegar  or  wine.— 0&#- 
This  is  a  sauce  which  ought  to  be  ptqutM";  the  co^" 


280       CHAP.  IX. — BAVCE8,  BS8JEJRCBS,  AVB  CONDIMENTS. 

therefore  at  liberty  to  make  whatever  additions  she 
pleases ;— cayenne,  soy,  essence  of  anchovy,  lemon-pickle, 
horseradish,  mustard,  eschalot,  gherkins,  cayice,  vinegars, 
— in  short,  the  whole  circle  of  the  pungent  and  sharp 
flavours  may  be  pressed  into  the  service.  When  a  com- 
pound  or  double-relish  sauce  is  wanted,  we  would  recom- 
mend brown  gravy-sauce  for  the  basis,  instead  of  plain 
melted  butter.  Anchovy-sauce  may  have  chopped  capers 
added  to  it  and  cayenne,  and  will  then  be  a  good  fish- 
sauce  for  haddocks^  skate,  &c. 

314.  Liver-Sauce  for  Fish, — Boil  the  fish  liver  by 
itself ;  take  away  all  fibres  and  black  parts  that  attach  to 
it,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar.  Boil  it  up  in  thin  melted 
butter  with  cayenne,  and  sharpen  with  lemon-juice,  or 
lemon  cut  in  dice.  If  a  higher  ^out  is  wanted,  add  soy, 
essence  of  anchovy,  or  catsup,  instead  of  lemon-juice,  or 
in  addition  to  it. 

S15,  A  plain  Satu^  for  Fish, — Melt  some  butter  in 
water  and  vinegar  ;  add  the  liver  first  boiled  and  chopped, 
and  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  flour.  Mustard, 
a  tea- spoonful  of  catsup  or  walnut-pickle,  is  a  cheap 
pungent  addition  to  the  above. 

316.  Mackerel  Roe  Sauce, — Boil  two  or  three  soft  roes ; 
take  away  the  filaments  that  hang  about  them,  and  bruise 
them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Stir  this  into  a  little  thin 
parsley  and  butter,  or  fennel  and  butter,  and  add  a  little 
vinegar  or  walnut-pickle,  with  pepper  and  salt. 

317.  The  Old  Admiral* s  Sauce.-^Cho^  an  anchovy,  a 
dozen  capers,  and  four  or  five  eschalots  or  rocamboles; 
simmer  these  in  melted  butter  till  the  anchovy  dissolves  ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  and  when  ready,  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

318.  A  Grill-Sauce, — Thicken  some  good  brown-gravy 
with  butter  and  browned  flour  to  the  consistence  of  a  thin 
batter ;  add  to  it  a  spoonful  of  walnut-catsup,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  a  tea -spoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  dozen 
chopped  capers,  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  essence  of  anchovies, 
a  bit  of  eschalot  finely  minced,  a  few  grains  of  (cayenne, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Simmer 
these  ingredients  for  a  minute^  and  pouring  a  little  hot 


nsH'^SAUcxs.  281 

OYer  the  griU,  serve  the  rest  in  a  tureen.  This  aunpoutid 
piquant  sauce  wiU  suit  seyeral  kinds  of  white  fish,  such 
as  skate,  halibut,  &c^  to  those  who  like  a  highly-stimu* 
lating  relish.  It  is  appropriate  to  what  are  called  Devils 
of  all  orders, 

319.  Dutch  Fish-Sauce, — Equal  quantities  of  water 
and  vinegar,  boiled,  seasoned,  and  thickened  with  beat 
yolk  of  egg,  and  sharpened  with  a  good  squeeze  of  lemon ; 
do  not  boil  it  after  the  egg  is  added,  but  mill  it  like 
custard. 

320.  An  excellent  Store  English  Fish-Sauce.  —  A 
half-pint  of  claret  or  red  port,  a  half-pint  of  mountain  or 
Rhenish,  and  another  of  walnut-catsup,  a  large  glassful  of 
walnut-pickle,  the  grate  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  dozen 
well-flavoured  mellow  anchovies  pounded  and  dissolved  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  three  eschalots  chopped,  a  good  relish 
of  cayenne,  four  large  spoonfuls  of  scraped  horseradish,  a 
few  blades  of  mace,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mustard, 
rubbed  down  with  the  anchovy-liquor,  of  which  the  more 
you  have  the  better.  Boil  this  composition  slowly  for  a 
few  minutes,  mixing  in  the  ingredients  according  to  the 
delicacy  of  their  flavour  and  their  solubility.  Bottle  it 
when  cold  in  small  bottles ;  cork  them  well  and  dip  in 
rosin.  This  is  an  expensive  but  a  very  rich  fish-sauce. 
It  may  be  made  of  water  in  which  herbs  may  be  pre- 
viously boiled,  and  vinegar  may  be  substituted  for  wine. 
It  will  keep  longer  if,  instead  of  fresh  lemon-rind  and 
juice,  citric  acid  and  dry  lemon-peel  are  used.  A  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  above  will  convert  two  ounces  of  melted 
butter  into  a  well-flavoured  extemporaneous  sauce  ;  or  it 
may  be  mixed  with  the  butter  on  the  plate,  like  essence 
of  anchovy,  soy,  &c. 

321.  The  Oeneral%  or  Camp  Sauce,  a  Store-Sauce  for 
Fish  or  Meat* — Chop  six  eschalots,  a  clove  of  garlic,  with 
two  bay-leaves,  a  few  sprigs  of  lemon- thy  me  and  leaves  of 
basil,  with  a  few  bits  of  the  peel  of  a  Seville  orange. 
Bruise  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace  and  cloves,  a  half- 
ounce  of  long  pepper,  and  add  two  ounces  of  salt,  a 
quarter-pint  of  vinegar,  and  a  pint  of  Madeira,  with  a 
half-glass  of  verjuice,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.    In- 


282       CHAP.  IX. SAUCES)  fiSflEKCBSy  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

fase  these  ingredients  in  a  stone  jar,  very  closely  stopped; 
and  let  it  stand  ortr  embers,  or  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  or 
in  a  bmn  marie^  for  a  night.  Pour  it  gently  from  the 
lees,  and  strain  it,  and  bottle  as  other  essences.  This  is  a 
high  compound  relish,  and  must  be  used  in  moderation 
with  gravy  or  melted  butter. 

822.  Dr.  Rbdoill's  Sauce  PiqwnUy  for  Fuh  or  CM 
Meta, — Pound  a  large  spoonful  of  scraped  horseradish, 
four  eschalots,  'a  clove  of  garlic,  a  drachm  of  mustard, 
and  one  of  celery-seed,  with  salt  and  a  high  relish  of 
cayenne,  Jamaica  and  black  pepper.  When  well  pounded, 
mix  with  these  ingredients  a  half-pint  of  cucumber-vinegar, 
a  quarter-pint  of  eschalot,  and  the  same  quantity  of  horse- 
radish-vinegar. Let  these  infuse  in  a  close-stopped  jar  by 
the  fire  for  a  few  days,  and  strain,  and  bottle  in  small 
vials  for  use. 

323.  Quin's*  jF«<A-^a«c«,  a  Store-Sauce. — Two  glasses 

*  Had  this  orbat  man  lived  in  onr  daj,  he  would,  we  think,  instead 
of  80  much  heavy  catsup  and  coarse  walnut-pickle,  have  adopted  soma 
delicately-flavoured  vinegar  as  a  substitute  for  about  the  one-half  of  these 
ingredients, — such  as'  eschalot  or  burnet  vinegar,  or  even  fiery  horse- 
radish-tincture. As  a  mere  untravelled  practical  Englishman,  and, 
moreover,  of  the  Old  School,  Quin,  no  doubt,  ranks  high  in  the  lists  of 
gastronomy.  Still  he  is  completely  distanced  by  many  modems,  both  in 
love  for,  and  knowledge  of  tne  science.  Among  the  most  noted  of  the 
modems,  we  beg  to  introduce  our  readers  to  Mr.  Rogbrson^  an  enthu- 
siast greater  tlum  Sampayo,  and  a  martyr.  He,  as  may  be  presumed, 
was  educated  at  that  University  where  the  Rudiments  of  palatie  science 
are  the  most  thoroughly  impressed  on  the  ductile  organs  of  y<flith.  His 
father,  a  gentleman  of  Gloucestershire,  sent  him  abroad  to  make  the 
grand  tour  ;  upon  which  journey,  says  our  informant,  young  Rogbrson 
attended  to  nothing  but  the  various  modes  of  cookery,  and  methods  of 
eating  and  drinking  luxuriously.  Before  his  return  his  father  died,  and 
he  entered  into  the  possession  of  a  very  large  moneyed  fortune,  and 
ft  small  landed  estate.  He  was  now  able  to  look  over  his  notes  of 
epicurism,  and  to  discover  where  the  most  exquisite  dishes  were  to  be 
had,  and  the  best  cooks  procured.  He  had  no  oUier  servants  in  his  house 
than  cooks :  his  butler,  footman,  housekeeper,  coachman,  and  grooms, 
were  all  cooks.  He  had  three  Italian  cooks,  one  from  Florence, 
another  from  Sienna,  and  a  third  from  Viterbo,  for  dressing  one  dish, 
the  dooee  pioocude  of  Florence.  He  had  a  messenger  constantly  on  the 
road  between  Brittany  and  London,  to  bring  him  the  e^gs  of  a  certain 
sort  of  plover,  found  near  St.  Maloes.  He  has  eaten  a  smgle  dinner  at 
tiie  expense  of  fifty-eight  pounds,  though  himself  only  sat  down  to  it, 
and  there  were  but  two  dishes.  He  counted  the  minutes  between 
meals,  and  seemed  totally  absorbed  in  the  idea,  or  in  the  action  of 
eating  ;  yet  his  stomach  was  very  small, — it  was  the  exquisite  flavour 


FiBH-aAtrcBS.  '  283 

of  claret  and  two  of  walnut-pickle,  with  four  of  mush- 
room-^atsup ;  six  large  pounded  anchoTies  with  their 
pickle,  and  six  eschalots  pounded ;  a  half  glass  of  soy,  black 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Let  this  simmer  slowly  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  till  the  bones  of  the  anchories  dissolve.  Strain 
it  off,  and  when  cold  bottle  for  use.* 

324.  Dr.  Kitchinbb's  FU^Sauce  Superlaiivef  a  Store- 
Sauce. — A  pint  of  claret,  a  pint  of  mushroom-catsup,  and 
half  a  pint  of  walnut-pickle ;  four  ounces  of  pounded 
anchovy,  an  ounce  of  fresh  lemon-peel  pared  thin,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  eschalot  and  scraped  horseradish : 
an  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  allspice,  and  a  drachm  of 
cayenne,  or  three  of  currie-powder,  with  a  drachm  of 
celery-seed.  Infuse  these,  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  closely 
stopped,  for  a  fortnight,  and  shake  the  mixture  every  day ; 
then  strain  and  bottie  it  for  use.  A  large  spoonful  of  this 
stirred  into  a  quarter-pint  of  thickened  melted  butter 
^'  makes,"  says  the  Doctor,  "  an  admirable  extemporaneous 
sauce.^f — Ohs.  This  will  be  found  even  more  expensive  than 
the  fish-sauce  of  Harvey  or  Burgess  ;  the  composition  of 
which,  so  far  as  such  high  mysteries  are  accessible  to  ordi- 

alone  that  he  souffht.  In  nine  yean  he  found  his  tahle  dieadfoUy 
abridged  by  the  mm  of  his  fortune,  and  himself  hastening  to  poverW. 
This  made  him  melancholy,  and  brought  on  disease.  When  totally 
rained  (having  spent  near  £150,000,)  a  friend  gave  him  a  guinea  to 
keep  him  from  starving ;  and  he  was  found  in  a  garret  Soon  after 
roastinff  an  ortolan  with  niji  own  hands.  We  r^fret  to  add,  that  a  few 
days  afterwards  thia  extraordinary  youdi  shot  himielfl  We  hope  that 
his  notes  are  not  lost  to  the  dining  world, 

*  Gastronomers  will  feel  a  natural  desire  to  know  what  was  con- 
sidered the  **  best  universal  sauce  in  the  world**  in  the  boon  days  of 
Charles  II.;  or  at  least  what  was  accounted  such  by  the  Duke  of  York, 
who  was  instructed  to  prepare  it  by  the  Spanish  ambassador.  It  con- 
sisted of  parsley,  and  a  dry  toast  pounded  in  a  mortar  with  vinegar, 
salt,  and  pepper.  The  modem  English  would  no  more  relish  his  Royal 
Highness^  taste  in  condimenta  than  in  religion.  A  fuhionable  or 
Cabinet  dinner  of  the  samejwriod  consisted  of  **  a  dish  of  marrow-bones, 
a  lep[  of  mutton,  a  dish  of  fowl,  three  pullets,  and  a  dozen  larks,  all  in 
a  dish  ;  a  great  tart,  a  neat^s  tongue,  a  dish  of  anchovies,  a  dish  of 
prawns,  ana  cheese.**  At  the  same  period,  a  delicate  supper-dish,  when 
the  Ki&g  supped  with  his  mistress,  Lady  Castlemaine^  *<  was  a  chine  of 
be^  roasted.^    But  folks  then  supped  at  the  modem  dinner  hour. 

f  The  KUehmer  sauce  was  analyzed  with  great  care  by  the  Cleikum 
Club  at  sundry  sittings.  Bbdgill  approved  of  it  m  Mo,  the  Nabob 
suniested  a  little  more  cajrenne,  and  Jbkyll  more  wiue  and  less  catsup, 
with  the  elegant  substitution  of  lemon-pickle  for  walnut-pickle. 


284        CHAP.  IX. — 6AUCES9  ESSENCES^  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

nary  mortals,  is  not  materially  different  from  the  piquant 
fish-sauces  for  which  we  have  given  receipts  above,  save 
that  more  anchovies,  cavice,  and  probably  fewer  expensive 
seasonings  and  less  wine,  are  employed.  The  extensive 
sales,  and  the  complete  apparatus  of  these  Sauce -chemigts, 
enable  them  to  sell  compound  essences  cheaper  than  they 
could  be  prepared  in  any  private  family.  Though  so  many 
receipts  are  given  for  Store-Sauces,  we  do  not,  when  pro- 
per sauces  can  be  obtained  fresh,  recommend  them  either 
for  taste  or  economy. 

We  have  been  rather  diffuse  on  the  subject  of  fish-sauces, 
in  the  persuasion  that  fish,  from  its  insipidity  and  softness 
of  texture,  requires  savoury  and  stimulating  accompani- 
ments more  than  any  other  kind  of  food. 


STUFFINGS  AND  FORCEMEATS. 

Receifts  for  these  are,  for  the  convenience  of  the  cook, 
often  given  by  us,  along  with  the  dishes  for  which  they 
are  employed.  See  pp.  109, 113, 114, 1 16, 1 18,  and  126,  &c. ; 
and  Msh'Forcemeat,  pp.  182,  209 ;  also  French  Cookery 
and  Crappit  Heads, 


326.  ANCHovr  butter,— /or  Anchovy  Toasts^  Detiled 

Biscuit^  S^c. 
Bone,  wash,  and  pound  fresh  mellow  anchovies  in  a 
mortar,  and  pressing  into  small  potting-cans,  cover  them 
with  clarified  butter.  If  for  deviled  biscuit,  a  little 
cayenne  may  be  added.  —  See  Aspic  and  Montpelier, 
and  other  Butters^  French  Cookery. 

326.  Anchovy-Powder,  for  flavouring  Sauces  or 
sprinkling  on  Anchovy  Toasts  or  Sandwiches. — Pound 
anchovies  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through  a  hair-sieve,  and 
make  them  into  thin  cakes,  with  flour  and  a  little  flour  of 
mustard.  Toast  the  cakes  very  dry,  rub  to  powder,  and 
keep  in  well-stopped  vials. — Obs.  Instead  of  flour  of  mus- 
tard, citric  acid  and  grated  dry  lemon-peel,  added  when 
the  anchovy-cakes  are  baked,  may  be  more  agreeable  to 
some  palates. 

327.  Mushroom-Powder. — Peel  large,  fleshy  mush- 
rooms, and   cut  off  the   stems;  spread   them  on  plates, 


ESSENCE  OF  CATENNS.  285 

and  dry  them  in  a  slow  oven.  When  thoroughly  dry, 
pound  them  with  a  little  cayenne  and  pounded  mace. 
Bottle,  and  keep  the  powder  in  a  dry  place.  —  Obs.  The 
dried  mushrooms  may  he  kept  hung  up  in  paper-hags 
without  pounding.  A  tea-spoonful  of  powder  will  give  the 
mushroom-flayour  to  a  tureen  of  soup,  or  to  a  currie,  or  to 
sauce  for  poultry,  ragouts,  hashes,  &c.  when  fresh  mush- 
rooms cannot  he  ohtained. 

328.  Horseradish-Powder, — In  the  heginning  of  winter 
slice  horseradish  and  dry  it  slowly  hefore  the  fire.  When 
dry,  ruh  or  pound,  and  hottle  the  powder. 

329.  Essence  of  Cayenne, — Steep  half  an  ounce  of  good 
cayenne  in  a  half-pint  of  strong  spirits  for  a  fortnight, 
and  strain  and  hottle  it  for  use.  We  have  already  re- 
marked that  Essences  of  all  kinds  may  now  he  hought  of 
excellent  quality,  and  where  there  is  no  regular  still-room, 
are  perhaps  cheapest  and  hest  when  hought.  It  is,  however, 
sometimes  proper  to  economize  lemon  and  orange  rind, 
and  such  things. 

330.  Essence  of  Lemon  and  Seville  Orange  Peel, — 
Ruh  lumps  of  sugar  on  the  lemon  or  orange  till  the  lumps 
are  saturated  with  the  yellow  rind.  Scrape  off  what  is 
saturated,  and  repeat  the  process  till  all  the  rind  is  got  off. 
Press  the  sugar  down  close,  and  cover  it  up. — Obs.  Essence 
of  Seville  Orange  makes  a  fragrant  and  most  grateful 
seasoning  to  custard,  rice,  or  hatter  puddings.  Essence 
of  lemon  or  of  orange  peel  is  made  hy  mixing  one 
drachm  of  the  essential  oil  of  these  fruits  with  a  large 
glassful  of  rectified  spirits,  or  spirit  of  wine,  and  is  very  con- 
venient when  fresh  lemons  are  not  to  he  ohtained,  though 
not  equal  to  the  fresh  fi-uit  either  in  fragrance  or  flavour. 
The  oil  must  be  gradually  mixed.  Tincture  of  lemon- 
peel  may  be  very  economically  made  when  lemon-juice  is 
wanted,  by  paring  the  peel  off  very  nicely,  and  steeping  it 
in  brandy.  The  bottle  must  be  very  closely  stopped,  as 
the  flavour  of  lemon  is  exceedingly  volatile.  Essence  of 
Allspice  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  essence  of  lemon, 
and  so  may  Essences  of  Cloves  and  Mace, 

331.  Essence  of  Conger,  —  Infuse  three  ounces  of  well- 
bruised  fresh  ginger,  and  an  ounce  of  lemon-peel  sliced  thin^ 


286      CUAF.  IX. — 8AUCBS,  nSEVCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  rectified  spirits.  Let  it  b« 
closely  stopped,  and  shaken  every  day.  This  piepai^oii 
is  cordial  and  gntefal. 

332.  Tinctures  of  ChveSy  Nufmegfy  Allspice,  Cinnamon, 
Sfc.  may  he  all  prepared  hy  infusing  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  the  aromatics  in  strong  spirits.  They  may  he  converted 
into  plain  useful  liqueurs  hy  the  addition  of  fine  sugav ; 
hut  they  must  then  be  carefully  filtered. 

333.  Cayenne  Pippery  to  make.  — -Thb  is  made  either  of 
ripe  chilies  or  capsicums.  If  chilies,  dry  them  before  th^ 
fire  a  whole  day,  turning  them  till  quite  dry.  Trim  away 
the  stalks.  Pound  the  pods  in  a  mortar  till  they  become 
a  fine  powder,  mixing  in  about  a  sixth  oi  their  weight  of 
salt.  Bottle  the  dry  powder,  and  stop  the  vials  carefully, 
If  capsicums  are  used,  dry  them  in  the  oven,  first  mixing 
them  with  dried  flour  ;  heat  them  to  a  powder,  and  add 
water,  yeast,  and  a  little  salt,  with  which  form  the  capsi- 
cums into  paste  and  then  in  small  cakes.  Bake  these 
twice  ;  pound  and  sift  the  powder,  bottle  in  vials  and  stop^ 

334.  Mixed  Spices  and  Sbasoninos. — Cook's  or  Kitchen 
Pepper. «—  Dry,  and  pound  or  grind  to  a  fine  powder,  an 
ounce  of  ginger ;  and  of  nutmeg,  black  and  Jamaica  pepper, 
and  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  each,  with  a  dozen  of  cloves. 
Bottle  these  in  separate  vials  labelled  and  well  corked : 
mix  in  proper  proportions  with  common  salt  when  wanted, 

N.  B.  French  cooks  keep  their  seasonings  mixed,  and 
even  pound  or  grind  them  together,  not  from  convenience, 
hut  to  blend  the  flavours  intimately }  much  may  be  said 
for  this  practice. 

335.  Coox*s  Seasonings/ot  White  Scmee^  FriecLSsees^  c^nd 
Roffouts.-^WYiii/^  Pepper,  nutmeg,  mace,  and  lemon-grate 
pounded  and  mixed.  Also  ginger  and  cayenne  in  proper 
proportions.    These  may  be  pounded  together. 

336.  Powder  of  fine  Herbs,  for  flavovHng  JSoups  and 
Sauces,  when,  the  fresh  Herbs  cannot  be  obtain^.  —  Dry,  in 
summer,  parsley  two  ounces,  of  lemon-thyme,  winter  savory, 
sweet  marjoram,  and  basil,  each  an  ounce ;  lemon-peel 
dried,  an  ounce.  Dry  slowly  and  thoroughly :  pound  dry> 
and  bottle.  The  powder  should  be  sifted.  Celery-seeds 
may  he  put  to  this  useful  relish*— See  No.  %iA,i 


YINSOAikB,  287 

337.  Household  Vineoabs.— -Vinegar  is  an  article  per- 
petually wanted  for  various  purposes  in  almost  every 
family  ;  and,  compared  with  the  first  cost  of  the  materials^ 
it  is  an  expensive  one.  Though  we  are  not  perfectly  con- 
vinced that  the  labour  of  the  still-room  is  at  ajl  times  what 
economists  would  call  productive  laboury  we  think  that 
vinegar,  for  ordinary  purposes,  may  often  be  made  at  home. 

338.  Sxtgar-  Vinegar.  —  To  every  gallon  of  water  put 
two  pounds  of  coarse  raw  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  this. 
Put  it  to  cool  in  a  tub,  and  when  sufficiently  cold,  float  in 
it  a  sUce  of  bread  soaked  in  fresh  yeast.  Barrel  it  in  a 
week,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  in  summer,  or  by  the  fire  in 
winter,  for  six  months,  without  stopping  the  bung-hole ; 
but  cover  it  to  keep  out  insects. 

339.  Cider-  Vinegar,  -^  Put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to 
the  gallon  of  cider,  and,  shaking  them  well  together,  let 
them  ferment  for  four  months,  and  a  strong  and  well- 
coloured  vinegar  will  be  the  result, 

340.  Chos^berry-  Vinegar, — To  every  quart  of  bruised 
ripe  white  or  green  gooseberries  put  three  quarts  of  spring- 
water.  Stir  them  well  with  the  water,  and  let  them  steep 
for  forty-eight  hours,  repeating  the  stirring.  Strain  through 
a  flannel  bag,  and  put  two  pounds  of  white  pounded  sugar 
to  every  gallon  of  liquor.  Put  it  into  a  barrel  with  a  toast 
soaked  in  yeast,  leaving  the  bung-hole  as  directed  above. 
Keep  the  barrel  in  a  warm  place.  White  currants  or 
raspberries  make  an  excellent  vinegar  by  following  the 
same  receipt.     Pick  the  currants  from  the  stalks. 

34J.  Vinegar  of  Wine-Lees.-^BoU.  the  wine-lees  quickly 
for  half  an  hour,  skimming  well.  Cask  the  lees  and  add 
3ome  chervil.  Stop  the  cask,  and  in  a  month  it  will  be 
fit  for  use  as  vinegar. 

342.  Veryuice,  —  Gather  some  ripe  crab-apples,  and  lay 
them  in  a  heap  to  sweat ;  then  throw  away  the  stalks  and 
decayed  fruit,  and  having  mashed  the  apples,  express  the 
juice.  (A  cider  or  wine  press  will  be  useful  for  this  pur- 
pose.) Strain  it :  in  a  month  it  will  be  ready.  This  is  the 
best  simple  substitute  for  lemon-juice  that  can  be  found ; 
it  answers  still  better  in  place  of  sorrel.    The  French,  for 


288        CHAP.  IX. — SAtrCBSy  KSKKCES,  AKD  COICDIMENTS. 

many  dishes,  prefer  yeijuice  to  lemon  acid.     It  is  used  by 
great  economists  in  preparing  lemonade. 

843.  Alegar.  —  This  is  often  made  of  stale  beer,  but  is 
best  when  made  of  fresh  worts,  fermented  with  sour  yeast, 
and  set  in  the  sun  till  the  acetous  fermentation  takes 
place. 

344.  Raisin^  Vinegar.  —  After  making  raisin-wine  lay 
the  refuse  in  'a  heap  to  ferment.  Add  water  in  the  pro- 
portion of  a  gallon  to  the  pound  of  raisins  and  half-pound 
of  sugar.     Put  yeast  to  the  liquor  when  strained. 

345.  Flavoured  Vinegars.  —  These  are  a  cheap  and 
agreeable  addition  to  sauces,  hashes,  and  ragouts,  and  have 
the  convenience  of  being  always  at  hand,  at  seasons  when 
herbs  are  either  very  costly  or  not  to  be  procured.  They  may 
be  coloured  with  a  few  grains  of  cochineaL  They  keep 
long,  and  being  so  serviceable  ought  to  be  regularly  pre- 
pared.    Make  them  of  the  best  jnckle  vinegar, 

346.  Chili'  Vinegar  and  Cayenne-  Vinegar,  called  Pepper- 
Vinegars,  -^  Infuse  a  hundred  red  chilies,  fresh  gathered, 
in  a  quart  of  the  best  white-wine  vinegar  for  ten  days  or 
more,  shaking  the  bottle  occasionally.  A  half-ounce  of 
genuine  cayenne  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  This 
makes  an  excellent  and  cheap  addition  to  plain  melted 
butter  for  fish-sauce,  &c.,  and  may  be  made  of  any 
strength.  It  is  a  safe  and  convenient  mode  of  using 
cayenne  in  many  dishes. 

347.  Eschalot-Vinegar,  —  Clean,  peel,  and  bruise  four 
ounces  of  eschalot^^t  the  season  when  they  are  quite  ripe 
without  having  become  acrid.  Steep  them  in  a  quart  of 
the  best  vinegar,  and  strain,  filter,  and  bottle. 

348.  Garlic-  Vinegar, — ^The  same  as  above,  but  use  only 
half  the  quantity  of  chopped  garlic. 

349.  Celery  or  Cress  Vinegar.  —  Pound  a  half-ounce  of 
celery-seed  or  cress-seed,  or  a  half-pound  of  fresh  celery, 
and  steep  it  for  ten  days  in  a  quart  of  vinegar  boiled. 
Strain  and  bottle.     It  is  used  with  salads. 

360.  Cucumber^  Vinegar.  —  Pare  and  slice  ten  large 
cucumbers,  and  steep  them  in  three  pints  of  pickle  vinegar 
for  a  few  days.     Strain  and  bottle  it.  —  Obs,  Vinegar  of 


ynmoABS.  289 

nearly  the  same  flavour  may  be  more  cheaply  prepared 
wi^  huniet* 

361 .  Tarraffon-  Vin^ar.  -^Gather  the  leares  of  tana* 
gon  on  a  dry  eanny  day ;  pick  them  from  the  stalks,  and 
filling  np  a  narrow-neeked  stone  jar,  pour  the  best  rinegar 
over  them  till  the  jar  is  fuU.  Let  them  infuse  for  ten 
days,  then  strain  and  bottle  the  tinctnre. 

352.  BcM^Vinegar  is  made  precisely  as  the  abore. 
The  French  add  clores  and  lem<Ni-iind :  we  admire  this 
addition. 

363.  Horuraduh-  Vinegar. ^^Yosxx  a  quart  of  the  best 
and  strongest  yinegar,  boiling  hot,  on  three  ounces  of 
8cnq>ed  horseradish,  an  once  of  minced  eschalot,  two 
drachms  of  black  pepper,  and  a  drachm  of  cayenne. 
Strain  it  in  four  days,  and  serve  it  in  a  cruet  along  with 
cold  roast  beef.  It  makes  an  excellent  economical  addi* 
tion  to  the  gravy  of  chops,  steaks,  &c.— ^See  No.  270, 

364.  Cam'P'Vinegwr. — Six  chopped  anchovies^  four 
spoonfuls  of  walnut-catsup,  two  of  soy,  and  a  clove  of  gar* 
lie  chopped  very  fine,  and  two  drachms  of  cayenne.  Steep 
these  for  a  fortnight  in  a  pint  of  white- wine  vinegar,  and 
strain  and  bottle  for  use.  *-*  06#.  This  is  more  properly  a 
sauoe  than  a  vinegar,  as,  with  butter  or  gravy  added,  it  sup- 
plies the  place  of  a  store-sauce  for  either  meat  or  fish.  The 
anchovies  should  be  omitted  when  the  vinegar  is  to  be  stored. 

366.  Currie-Vinegar,  —  Steep  currie-powder,  in  the 
proportion  of  two  ounces  to  the  quart,  in  the  best  vinegar, 
and  strain  and  filter  for  use. 

366.  Raspberry-  Vinegar.  —  Pour  on  fresh-gathered 
raspberries,  put  in  a  large  stoneware  or  china  dish,  or 
wide -necked  bottles,  the  best  champagne  vinegar,  in  the 
proportion  of  a  bottle  to  two  quarts  of  fruit.  Next  day 
pour  off  the  liquor,  and  pour  a  little  more  vinegar  over  the 
fruit :  where  the  fruit  is  plentiful  and  cheap,  you  need  not 
mind  expressing  the  juice  too  carefully ;  strain  through  a 
sieve,  but  do  not  bruise  the  fruit.  To  every  pint  of  the 
vinegar  and  raspberry  juice,  now  blended,  allow  a  full 
pound  of  good  refined  sugar.  Break  it  in  pieces,  and 
dissolve  it  ih  the  juice.  Boil  the  syrup  for  seven  minutes,  or 
it  is  better  to  place  the  whole  in  a  stone  jar,  (not  a  glazed 

T 


290       CHAP,  IX. — ^SAUCES,  BSSEKCES,  AND  CX)NDTHENTS. 

earthen  one,)  and  put  the  jar,  (covered,)  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  for  an  hour ;  take  off  what  scum  arises ; 
when  cool  botUe  the  vinegar  for  use.  This  is  an  exceed- 
ingly pleasant  beverage  in  hot  weather.  Two  spoonfuls 
mixed  with  water  make  a  delicious  simimer  draught ;  but 
the  large  quantity  of  acid  which  it  contains  may,  in  some 
cases,  render  it  an  improper  one.  With  currant-jelly  it 
makes  an  admirable  sauce  for  roast  venison  or  mutton,  and 
is  made  extempore  by  melting  raspberry  jelly  in  vinegar. 

857.    HERB-WINES,    &C. 

WiNB  may  be  impregnated  with  the  flavour  of  roots  and 
herbs  in  the  same  manner  as  vinegar,  and  this  generous  fluid 
extracts  even  more  of  the  flavour ;  and  often  when  vinegar 
would  be  objectionable,  wine  is  suitable.  The  proportions 
for  JEschalot-wine^  Tarragon-wine^  Basil-wine^  Sfc.^  are 
the  same  as  when  these  herbs  are  steeped  in  strong  vine- 
gar.   Eschalot  wine  is  that  most  used  and  esteemed. 

368,  Eschalot-Wine,  —  To  four  ounces  of  eschalots 
dried,  chopped,  and  pounded,  or  merely  bruised,  put  a 
bottle  of  sherry.  Infuse  for  a  fortnight  and  strain  off^.  If 
for  beef  only,  horseradish  sliced  may  be  added,  or  rather 
substituted  for  part  of  the  eschalots. 

D59.    BiUSTABDS. 

Mustard  is  best  when  nearly  fresh  made.  It  is  pre^ 
pared  in  a  variety  of  ways. 

360.  Good  Common  Mustard, — ^Mix  by  degrees  the  best 
mustard-flour,  with  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt,  rubbing 
a  long  time  till  it  be  perfectly  smooth.  The  less  made  at 
a  time  the  better ;  but  it  will  keep  for  some  time  in  a 
small  jar  closely  stopped. 

361.  Mild  Mustard, — Mix  as  above,  but  use  hot  milk 
instead  of  water,  and  sugar  with  the  salt. 

362.  Imitation  of  Patent  Mtistard,  and  Tartar  Mus^ 
tard, — Scrape  a  cupful  of  horseradish,  and  chop  a  half- 
clove  of  garlic.  Infuse  this  with  salt  enough  to  make  a 
quart  of  boiling  water  rather  brackish.  Let  it  stand  for  a 
night;  strain  and  mix  with  it  the  best  mustard-flour,  leav- 
ing the  mustard  rather  thick.  Cayenne  may  be  added. 
Keep  it  close-stopped  in  small  jars.  —  Tartar  or  pungent 
Mustard  is  made  with  cayenne  and  with  horseradish-vine-r 


CATSUPS.  291 

gar  instead  of  water. — N.  B.   For  mustard-pots  always 
have  well-ground  close-fitting  stoppers. 

963.  CATSUPS. 

Mushroom-Catsup  is  the  most  esteemed  of  this  class  of 
preparations.  Large  flap-mushrooms,  which  contain  a 
great  deal  of  juice,  and  do  not  answer  for  pickling  or  8tew-> 
ing,  are  well  adapted  to  making  catsup.  Let  the  mush- 
rooms be  wholesome.  (See  pp.  241-2.) — ^Without  washing 
them,  pick  off  whatever  looks  dirty  or  corrupted,  and, 
breaking  in  pieces,  lay  them  in  an  earthen  jar,  strewing 
salt  about  them.  Throw  a  folded  cloth  over  the  jar,  and 
set  it  by  the  fire,  or  in  a  very  cool  oven.  Let  it  remain  thus 
for  twenty-four  hours  or  more,  and  then  strain  off  the 
liquor  into  a  clean  saucepan.  To  every  quart  of  strained 
liquor  put  a  half-ounce  of  black  peppercorns,  a  quarter- 
oimce  of  allspice  in  corns,  a  half-ounce  of  fresh  sliced 
ginger,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  and  six  cloves.  Boil 
the  liquor  on  a  quick  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  or,  if  it  be 
wished  very  strong,  and  to  keep  long,  boil  the  catsup 
till  it  is  reduced  a  half,  adding  the  spices  after  it  has 
boiled  a  full  half-hour.  Let  it  settle  on  the  lees,  and, 
pouring  it  carefully  off,  bottle  what  is  clear  by  itself ;  and 
bottle  the  sediment,  after  straining,  in  separate  bottles,  as 
it  will  answer  very  well  for  fish-and-sauce,  hare-soup, 
game-soup,  &c.  Dip  the  corks  of  the  bottles  in  bottle- 
rosdn.  Cayenne  and  nutmeg  may  be  added  to  the  other 
spiceries  if  a  very  delicate  relish  is  wanted ;  or  all  the 
seasonings  may  be  withheld,  save  the  black  pepper  and 
salt,  of  which  catsups,  to  make  them  keep  well,  require  a 
good  deal.  The  longer  catsup  is  boiled  the  better  it  wUl 
keep.  Anchovies,  bay-leaves,  and  cayenne  pepper  are 
sometimes  put  to  mushroom-catsup.  In  France,  glaase  is 
put  to  mushroom-catsup,  and  the  whole  is  boiled  till  it  be 
nearly  a  gUize  or  robb ;  in  this  state  it  keeps  good  for  years. 
Catsups^  Sauces^  SfCy  (mght  to  he  kept  with  the  bottles  lying 
on  the  side.  They  ought  all  to  be  bottled  in  small  quan- 
tities, as  a  bottle  once  opened  soon  spoils.  When  a  bottle 
of  capers  or  pickles  is  opened,  it  should  be  filled  up  with 
good  vinegar,  scalded  and  cooled. 

364.    Walnut-Catsup,  •»  Gather    the    walnuts    green. 


292       CHAP.  IX.— CATSUPS^  ESSBNCBBy  AND  C0NDIMEN1B. 

Prick  them  with  a  bodkin,  and  throw  them  Into  a  vessel 
with  a  large  handful  of  salt  and  some  water,  which  will 
greatly  assist  in  drawing  out  their  liquor.  Mash  them 
well  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  repeat  this  every  day  for  four 
days.  The  rinds  will  now  he  soft*  Pour  scalding  water, 
with  salt  in  it,  over  the  walnuts,  and  raise  the  vessel  on 
edge  that  the  walnut-liquor  may  flow  away  from  the 
sheila.  Take  it  up  as  it  gathers  into  another  vessel,  and 
still  repeat  the  mashing;  or  pound  the  walnuts  in  a 
mortar,  and  pour  some  vinegar  over  them,  which  wiU  ex- 
tract all  the  remaining  juice.  To  every  quart  of  the 
walnut-liquor,  when  boiled  and  skimmed,  put  an  ounce  of 
bruised  ginger,  an  ounoe  of  Jamaica  and  black  pepper-^ 
coma,  a  quarter^unce  of  cloves,  the  same  of  long  pepper 
and  nutmegs.  Boil  this  liquor  in  a  close  vessel  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  and  when  cold,  bottle  the  catsup, 
putting  equal  proportions  of  the  spices  into  each  bottle.— 
Obs.  Anchovies,  garlic,  cayenne,  &c.  are  sometimes  put  to 
this  catsup ;  but  we  think  this  a  bad  method,  as  these 
flavours  may  render  it  unsuitable  for  some  dishes,  and 
they  can  be  added  eastempore  when  required.— -See  Pickled 
WalnutSy  p.  296. 

365.  Lemon-Catsup  or  Piekle, — Choose  six  large  fresh 
lemons  ;  pare  them  thinly ;  rub  them  well  with  salt  till 
they  are  saturated  with  it.  Make  an  opening  in  the  end 
of  each,  and  put  in  salt.  Bed  them  in  a  handful  of  salt 
and  horseradish,  and  six  bruised  cloves  of  garlic,  for  a 
week ;  then  dry  them  in  the  oven  till  quite  crisp ;  boil 
them  in  three  bottles  of  vinegar  with  a  half-ounce  of 
cayenne.  Add  a  cupful  of  the  best  mustard-seed,  bruised 
tomata.-^ee  No.  381,  and  Melon  Pickle^  297* 

366.  TtmaUi-Gatsiip.  —  Make  this  exactly  as  the  sauce, 
page  274 ;  but  boil  it  for  an  hour,  then  strain  and  bottle. 
A  small  glassful  will  flavour  any  sauce,  or,  with  melted 
butter,  make  an  extempore  Tomata*sauce. 

367.  Cucumber-Catsup, — Pare  large  cucumbers  ;  cut 
them  in  slices  and  break  them  to  a  mash,  which 
must  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and  covered  with  a  cloth. 
Keep  in  all  the  seeds.  Next  day,  set  the  vessel  aslant 
to  drain  off  the  juice,  and  do  this  till  no  more  can  be 


obtamed^  Siiain  die  juioe,  and  boil  it  up  with  a  high 
seasoning  of  iHiite  peppercoms,  alioed  ginger,  black 
pepper,  sliced  eschalot,  and  a  little  horseradish.  When 
col4  pick  oat  the  eschalot  and  horseradish,  and  bottle 
the  catsup,  which  is  an  excellent  preparation  for  flavour* 
ing  sauces  for  boiled  fowls,  veal,  rabbits,  or  the  more 
insipid  meats. 

368.  qysier,  OocHe,  and  Muscle  OKny^.— Wash  in  |heir 
own  liquor,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  fat,  newly-opened 
native  ijysters*  To  every  pint  of  the  pounded  oysters  and 
their  strained  liquor,  add  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  boil 
this  up  and  skim  it ;  then  to  every  quart  of  this  catsup 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  white  pepper,  a  salt-spoonful  of 
pounded  mace,  some  cayenne,  witii  salt  to  taste.  Let  It 
boil  up  to  blend  the  spices,  and  then  strain  the  catsup 
through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  vessel.  When  cold,  bottle  it, 
and  stop  the  bottles  vrith  corks  dipped  in  bottle-rosln.— 
Ooekle-Catsiq}  is  made  as  above ;  but  as  this  has  less  flavour 
naturally,  and  is  seldom  used  but  for  fish,  a  few  pounded 
anchovies  may  be  added  to  it. 

.869.  Browning^  or  Svffar^Oaisup.^^Ponnd^  very  finely, 
six  ounces  of  the  best  refined  sugar,  and  put  the  powder 
Into  a  small  and  very  clean  frying-pan,  with  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  fresh  butter.  As  it  dissolves  mix  well 
with  a  spatula  or  wooden  spoon,  and  withdraw  the  pan 
from  the  fire  when  the  fluid  begins  to  boil  violently  ;  stir, 
and  keep  it  thus  till  it  has  acquired  the  rich  dark-brown 
colour  wanted.  It  may  either  be  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  cloves,  catsup,  &c.  or  not,  and  is  generally  more  useful 
plain.  When  cold,  skim  the  browning,  and  bottle  It  in 
vials  for  use. — Ohs,  It  is  very  difiicult,  nay  almost  impos- 
sible, to  prepare  browning  free  of  an  empyreumatio 
flavour,  which  is  necessarily  communicated  to  the  dish 
that  is  coloured  with  it.  Where  sauces  can  be  coloured 
with  the  catsup,  browned  flour,  and  wine,  which  may  be 
employed  in  making  the  dish,  it  is  better  to  avoid  sugar 
bfwoninff;  and  soup  may  generally  be  made  of  a  sufii- 
ciently  rich  colour  by  previously  browning  the  meat  and 
onions,  and  by  other  means  we  have  pointed  out.  Many 
pooks  use  onion-skins,  which  contain  a  yellow  dye,  to  colour 


294       CHAP.  IX. — PICKLES^  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

their  soups ;  and  it  is  a  eommon,  bnt  slovenly  practice^ 
where  browning  is  wanted  in  a  hurry,  to  melt  a  knob  of 
sugar  between  the  hot  bowls  of  tongs,  and  drop  it  into  a 
little  soup  to  colour  the  rest.  This,  on  an  emeigency, 
may  be  useful,  but  the  necessity  ought  to  be  avoided. 
Prepared  Browning  is  sold. 

370.   PICKLES. 

T^BSE  are  an  important  class  of  culinary  preparations, 
and  one  about  which  the  cook  and  notable  housewife  want 
to  make  no  little  bustle,  and  feel  no  small  pride.  Pickles 
are  chiefly  intended  for  a  relishing  accompaniment  to 
many  sorts  of  made-dishes  and  sauces,  though  a  few  of 
them  are  merely  ornamental  as  gamishings. 

The  only  general  rules  that  can  be  given  for  the  proper 
and  safe  preparation  of  pickles  are,  to  have  sound  vege- 
tables or  fruits,  not  over-ripe,  and  gathered  on  a  dry  day. 
Let  the  things  to  be  pickled  be  carefully  trimmed  and 
wiped,  washing  only  such  things  as  are  to  be  steeped  or 
parboiled  previous  to  pickling.  It  is  miserable  economy 
to  employ  bad  vinegar  for  pickling,  or  bad  sugar  for  pre- 
serving, or  to  use  either  in  stinted  quantities, — ^as  both  the 
syrup  in  which  fruits  are  preserved,  and  the  vinegar  used 
for  pickles,  may  afterwards  be  serviceable  to  tlie  cook. 
Pickle-liquor  can  be  at  ajl  times  conveniently  disposed  of 
in  seasoning  gravies  or  sauces,  or  as  an  accompaniment  to 
cold  meat ; — ^the  pickle  of  cucumbers,  walnuts,  mushrooms, 
and  onions,  is  especially  useful.  The  vinegar  used  for 
pickles,  if  not  boiled,  ought  to  be  made  scalding  hot ;  but 
remember  that  no  fermented  liquid  can  be  long  boiled 
without  loss  of  strength.  The  spiceries  used  in  pickling 
are  so  well  bestowed  that  we  give  no  rule  for  the  quantity, 
except  that  it  should  not  be  so  great  as  to  overcome  the 
natural  flavour  of  the  article  pickled ;  for  pickles,  like 
every  thing  else,  should  be  what  their  name  imports,  — > 
either  Onion  or  CucuffUfer,  &c.  and  not  a  hodge-podge  of 
conflicting  flavours.  Pickles  are  most  safely  prepared  in 
stoneware  vessels ;  but  they  must,  at  all  events,  be  kept 
in  small  glass  or  stone  jars  well  stopped,  and  the  corks  or 
hunffs  wrapt  round  with  bladder  or  leather,  with  an  upper 
covering  of  the  same,  or  of  sheet  lead  if  they  are  to  be  long 


TO  PICKLE  CUCUMBBR8  AND  FKBNCH  BEANS.  295 

kept.  Or,  when  well  corked,  let  them  he  dipped  in  hottle- 
rosin.  The  corks  or  hangs  may  he  left  rather  loose  for 
two  days,  and  the  jars  filled  up  to  the  neck  with  scalded 
vinegar  hefore  being  finally  closed,  as  a  great  deal  of  the 
liquor  will  be  absorbed  at  first  by  the  pickles.  When  the 
pickles  are  used,  boil  up  the  liquor  with  a  little  salt  and 
fresh  spice,  and  bottle  and  cork  it  for  future  use,  either  as 
a  sauce,  or  to  pickle  nasturtiums  and  gherkins,  where  a 
fine  colour  is  no  object.  To  have  grten  pickles  of  a  bright 
greeny  and  yet  «a/0,  is  no  easy  matter ;  and  we  are  glad  to 
observe,  that  there  is  now  at  the  most  refined  tables  a 
wholesome  distrust  of  pickles  of  too  brilliant  a  green.  It 
is,  however,  very  possible  to  preserve  the  colour  toierahfy 
goody  and  yet  prepare  the  pickles  safely,  by  keeping  them 
for  a  length  of  time,  first  in  brine,  and  then  exposed  to  the 
steams  of  vinegar.  Potato-plums,  elder-flowers  in  the 
bud,  and  many  other  things  are  pickled  besides  the  vege- 
tables in  common  use.     We  do  not  admire  them. 

371  •  To  fdekle  Oucumbers. — Lay  fifty  firm,  young,  and 
very  small-sized  cucumbers,  not  too  ripe  or  seedy,  on  flat 
dishes,  having  first  rubbed  them  with  salt.  Keep  them 
covered,  and  look  at  them  and  turn  them  occasionally  for 
eight  or  t«n  days,  and  then  having  carefully  drained  them, 
put  them  in  a  jar  in  which  vine-leaves  or  cabbage-leaves 
are  laid,  and,  pouring  two  quarts  of  scalding  vinegar  over 
them,  cover  them  with  more  leaves,  and  keep  them  covered 
by  the  fire.  Next  day  pour  off  the  vinegar,  boil  it  up, 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  cucumbers,  again  covering  them 
with  fresh  leaves  above  and  below.  A  little  pounded 
alum  will  improve  the  colour;  but  if  it  be  not  good 
enough,  scald  them  once  more  by  placing  the  jar  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  When  the  colour  is 
tolerably  good — for  it  will  never  be  very  brilliant — boil  up 
the  vinegar  once  more  with  a  half-ounce  of  white  pepper, 
the  same  of  sliced  ginger,  two  drachms  of  cloves,  and  a 
bruised  nutmeg.  Boil  the  spices  for  a  few  minutes 
with  the  vinegar,  and  when  cold,  bottle  them  according 
to  the  general  directions  in  the  preceding  page.^—O^^. 
A  French  cook  would  add  a  seasoning  of  tarragon,  fennel, 
and  garlic. 


296       CHAP.  IX. — FICKLBSy  ESSENCES,  AKD  CONDIMBKTS. 

372.  French  bearu^  gherkinsy  Indian  cress,  samphire, 
and  other  preen  pickles,  are  all  to  be  managed  as  in  the 
above  receipt  for  cucumbers. 

373.  Cucumbers  and  Onions  pickled. — ^Pare  and  slice 
cucumbers,  picking  out  the  seeds  ;  and  ped  and  slice  large 
onions  in  thick  slices.  Sprinkle  salt  over  them,  and  drain 
for  a  night,  then  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour 
scalding  vinegar  over  them.  Close  the  jar,  and  set  it  by 
the  fire.  Scald  them  by  placing  the  jar  over  a  hot  hearth, 
and  repeat  this  till  they  become  of  a  tolerable  colour; 
then  boil  up  the  vinegar  with  spiceries  as  in  No*  371. 

374.  To  pickle  Walnuts  Green,  —  Gather  the  walnuts 
before  they  are  neurly  ripe,  and  while  the  shells  are  still 
tender.  Lay  them  in  a  s^ng  pickle  of  salt  and  water  for 
nine  days.  Change  the  brine  twice  in  that  time.  Keep  a 
board  floating  over  them,  for  if  they  are  exposed  to  the 
air  they  will  turn  black.  Drain  them,  and  run  a  bodkin 
or  steel  pin  into  each  walnut  in  several  places.  Lay 
plenty  of  vine-leaves  or  cabbage-leaves  in  the  bottom  of  a 
pan.  Place  the  walnuts  on  these,  and  cover  them  with 
more  leaves ;  fill  the  vessel  with  water,  and  give  them  a 
scald ;  let  them  stand  to  cool,  and  repeat  this  several 
times,  pouring  off  the  blackened  water,  and  supplying  its 
place  with  scalding  water.  When  the  husks  become  soft, 
scrape  them  off  with  a  knife  as  quickly  as  possible  ;  and, 
rubbing  the  walnuts  smooth  with  flannel,  tluowthem  into 
a  vessel  of  hot  water.  Boil  for  three  minutes  a  quart  of 
the  best  vinegar  for  every  fifty  walnuts,  with  white  pepper, 
salt,  ginger,  cloves,  and  cayenne.  Dry  the  walnuts  well 
in  a  doth,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  them.  IValnuts  are 
pickled  black  in  an  easier  manner,  by  merely  steeping  for 
twelve  days  in  strong  brine,  renewed  every  three  days, 
rubbing  them  smooth  and  dry,  and  pouring  boiling  vinegar 
over  them,  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  horseradi^  garlic, 
and  mustard-seed. 

375.  To  pickle  Mushrooms^  and  keq>  in  Brine  for  Winter 
use. — Choose  small  white  button-mushrooms,  and  rub  them 
with  flannel  or  a  sponge  dipped  in  a  little  salt.    Put  them 

.into  a  stone  jar,  with  some  mace,  ginger,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  let  them  stew  in  their  own  juices  over  a  slow  fire, 


TO  FICKLE  MUBHBOOlf  S  AND  ONIONS.  297 

* 

shaking  them  well,  bat  not  breaking  them*  Let  them 
i*emain  over  the  £re  tUl  they  are  ahnost  dry,  but  take  care 
they  do  not  bum.  When  the  liquor  is  all  reimbibed  by 
the  mushrooms^  put  in  as  much  hot  vinegar  as  will  cover 
them,  and  let  them  just  come  to  boil.  When  cold,  bottle 
them  in  jars,  and  after  a  week  fill  up  the  jars  wiUi  vine- 
gar, scalded  and  then  cooled,  and  pour  a  little  salad  oil 
into  the  necks  of  the  bottles,  which  will  aid  in  excluding 
the  air.  Cork  the  bottles,  wrapping  bladder  or  leather 
round  the  corks,  and  dip  in  bottle-rosin  the  corks  of  those 
which  are  to  be  long  kept  To  keep  in  Brine, — ^Prepare 
hutUms  as  above  directed  ;  and  for  every  pint  make  a  brine 
by  boiling,  in  a  pint  of  water,  six  ounces  of  salt  and  one  of 
sugar,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  peppercorns.  Scald  the  mush- 
rooms in  the  boiling  brine  for  six  minutes.  Finer  season- 
ings may  be  added ;  but  we  consider  this  unnecessary,  as  the 
mushrooms  are  to  be  afterwards  cooked.  To  keep,  bottle 
and  treat  them  exactly  as  pickled  muihroams*  We  have  of 
late,  with  advantage,  used  tin-foil  as  for  champagne  bottles, 
for  pickles  and  preserves. 

376.  To  pickle  Onions. — Choose  small  sound  sHver* 
onions,  as  equal  in  size  as  may  be.  Top  and  tail  them, 
but  do  not  pare  the  tops  very  close,  as  the  air  will  soften 
and  spoil  the  onions.  Scald  them  with  brine.  Repeat  this 
on  the  second  day,  and  when  cold,  peel  the  onions  as  quickly 
as  possible,  throwing  them  into  vinegar  as  they  are  done, 
to  prevent  their  blackening.  Boil  white-wine  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  them,  with  sliced  ginger,  black  and  white 
pepper,  and  mace ;  when  cooled  a  little,  pour  it  over  the 
onions.  Cork  them  well,  as  directed  for  oUier  pickles,  and 
dip  in  bottle^rosin. — Obs.  Some  cooks  peel  and  scald  the 
onions,  a  few  at  a  time,  take  them  up  as  soon  as  they  look 
transparent,  imd  dry  them  in  the  folds  of  a  cloth,  covering 
them  carefully  to  exclude  the  air.  Others  scald  in  brine, 
and  then  parboil  in  milk  and  water.  Pickled  onions  of 
the  shops  look  beautifully  white,  but  some  think  have 
little  goia.* 

« 

*  In  tbe  youthful  days  of  Mistress  DoDS  anions  were  pickled  in  their 
skins,  tops,  and  tails,  and  only  peeled  when  to  be  seryed  at  table.    The 
.flavour  waa  then  yerf  little  different  from  that  of  a  raw  onion. 


298       CHAP.  IX. — VlCKhES,  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

m 

377.  JR^  Cabbage, — ^A  firm  deep-purple-coloured  middle- 
sized  cabbage  is  best  for  pickling.  Strip  off  the  outer 
leaves,  cut  out  the  stalk ;  and,  dividing  the  cabbage,  cut 
it  down  into  sHces  of  the  breadth  of  narrow  straws. 
Sprinkle  salt  over  these,  and  let  them  lie  for  two  days  ; 
then  drain  very  dry,  and  pour  over  the  sliced  cabbage  a 
pickle  of  boiling  vinegar,  seasoned  with  black  and  Jamaica 
peppers  and  ginger.  Cover  the  jar  to  keep  in  the  hot 
steams,  and  when  cold,  close  it  up. — Obs*  A  few  mild 
onions  sliced  are  thought  an  improvement  to  this  pickle. 
The  onion  takes  the  beautiful  tinge  of  the  cabbage,  thus 
repaying 


'*  The  grace  it  borrows  with  the  strength  it  lends  1 


«♦ 


378.  Beetroot^  to  pickle, — Wash  the  beetroots,  but  take 
care  not  to  break  the  skin  or  the  fibres  which  hang  about 
them,  else  the  colour  will  fly.  Boil  them  softly  for  an  hour 
or  more  if  they  are  large,  or  bake  them,  and  as  soon  as  they 
are  cold  enough  to  be  handled,  peel  them,  and,  cutting 
them  into  slices,  put  the  slices  into  a  jar,  and  have  ready 
to  pour  over  them  cold,  vinegar,  in  which  black  and 
Jamaica  pepper,  ginger,  cloves,  and  a  little  cayenne,  have 
been  previously  boiled. — Obs,  A  few  slices  of  beetroot 
make  a  "preiiy  fill-up  dish  for  any  odd  corner  on  a  table, 
and  a  very  elegant  garnish,  particularly  if  contrasted  with 
the  brilliant  emerald  green  of  pickled  samphire.  The 
slices,  when  to  be  used,  may  be  cut  in  the  form  of  leaves, 
flowers,  or  Vandyked  round  the  edges  ;  a  few  small  silver- 
onions,  and  turnips  scooped  out  to  the  size  of  marbles, 
will  take  the  rich  red  tinge  of  this  pickle,  form  an  orna- 
mental variety  with  the  beetroot,  and  cost  nothing. 
Cochineal  will  improve  the  colour. 

379.  Indian  Pickle,  or  Piccalilli, — This  is  a  general 
hodge-podge  pickle  of  all  the  common  green  and  white 
pickles  to  which  the  currie flavour  and  tawny  currie  tinge 
is  given.  Prepare  the  pickle-liquor  thus  : — To  every  two 
quarts  of  the  best  vinegar  put  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
white  ginger,  scraped  and  sliced,  the  same  of  long  pepper, 
two  ounces  of  peeled  eschalots,  one  of  peeled  garlic,  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  salt,  an  ounce  of  turmeric,  a  little 


INDIAN  PICKLS,  2D9 

cayenne,  ^nd  some  flour  of  mustard.  Let  this  infuse  in  a 
close  jar  set  in  a  warm  place  for  a  week ;  and,  in  the 
meanwhile,  have  ready  a  white  cabbage  sliced,  cauliflowers 
cut  in  neat  branches,  white  turnip-radishes,  young  French 
beans,  sliced  cucumbers,  button-onions,  and  codling-apples, 
a  large  carrot  cut  in  round  slices,  nicked  round  the  edges, 
capsicums,  bird-pepper,  &c.  Sprinkle  all  these  things 
with  plenty  of  salt,  mixing  it  well  with  them  in  a  large 
earthen  vessel,  or  pouring  scalding  brine  over  them.  Let 
them  lie  for  four  days,  turning  them  over,  and  then  take 
them  up,  wash  them  in  vinegar,  and  dry  them  carefully 
with  a  cloth,  and  afterwards  lay  them  on  sieves  before  the 
fire,  turning  them  over  till  thoroughly  dried.  Next  day, 
place  them  either  in  a  large  stone  jar,  or  in  smaller  jars, 
and  pour  the  cooled  pickle  over  them.  The  jars  must  be 
well  stopped. — Obs.  This  pickle  keeps  a  long  time,  and  for 
the  first  two  years  will  even  improve  by  the  keeping.  The 
vegetables  do  not  all  come  in  together,  but  they  may  be 
prepared  as  for  pickling,  and  added  to  the  general  pickle 
as  they  come  into  season.  This  pickle  looks  more  attrac- 
tive if  the  French  beans,  small  whole  cucumbers,  or 
melons,  are  greened  before  they  are  put  to  it,  as  directed  in 
other  receipts.  When  the  melons  or  cucumbers  are 
greenedy  cut  a  slit  in  the  sides,  and  scrape  out  the  seeds. 
Shoots  of  green  elder  are  also  put  to  this  pickle,  in  imita- 
tion of  the  Bamboo  of  the  genuine  Mango  pickle.  Instead 
of  being  laid  in  salt,  the  vegetables  may  be  parboiled  in 
very  strong  brine,  by  which  means  the  pickle  will  be  soon 
ready,  but  the  colour  and  crispness  will  be  injured,  though, 
on  the  whole,  both  for  ease  of  preparation  and  safety  in 
eating,  we  think  parboiling  the  preferable  method.  This 
pickle  is  so  cheaply  bought,  whether  common  or  nicely 
prepared,  that  few  families  now  make  it. 

380.  To  preserve  Barberries. — Tie  the  clusters  to  bits 
of  sticks,  and  boil  them  in  syrup. 

To  pickle  Barberries  for  garnishing. — Gather  fine 
clusters  not  quite  ripe.  Make  a  brine  that  wi^l  float  an 
e^.  Boil  it  up  with  a  small  bit  of  alum,  and  when  cold 
pour  it  over  barberries,  or  Siberian  crabs,  laid  not  too 
closely  in  jars.     Look  at  the  fruit  occasionally,  and,  if 


300      CHAP.  IX. — 8AUCE8y  ESSENCES,  AND  CONDIMENTS. 

needed,  pour  off  the  brine,  and  sapply  its  place  with  more, 
freshly  prepared  as  the  first,  but  wiUi  less  salt. 

881.  To  pickle  Bitter  Orangee  and  Lemone  for  Wild 
Fowl. — Rub  the  fruit  well  wi^  salt.  Cover  them  with 
vinegar,  with  a  handful  of  coriander^seeds,  and  some 
maoe.  Boil  up  the  vinegar  once  or  twice,  and  when  cool 
pour  it  again  over  the  oranges  or  lemons.-«-See  No.  365. 

382.  To  pickle  Caulifiower  or  Brocoli, — Take  firm, 
well-coloured  vegetables,  before  they  are  quite  ripe,  and 
cut  away  the  bark  of  the  stems,  and  all  the  green  leaves. 
Scald  them  for  four  minutes  in  a  pan  of  boiling  brine,  and 
then-  drain  and  dry  them  thoroughly.  When  dry,  pull 
them  into  properly-sized  branches,  cutting  the  stalks 
smoothly,  and  pack  them  up  in  the  jars  with  the  same 
pickle*liqttor  as  directed  for  onions  or  beetroots. 

383.  Noiturtiumif  to  make  either  a  pickle,  or  for  imi- 
tation caper-sauce,  may  be  prepared  in  die  same  manner ; 
also  the  seed-pods  of  the  radish,  which  make  another  sub- 
stitute for  capers. 

384.  To  hasten  the  Preparation  of  Ptc^Ze*.— Parboil 
in  brine  the  vegetables  you  wish  to  pickle.  Drain  and 
dry  them,  and  then  proceed  as  before  directed  with  the 
respective  kinds.  The  colour  will  not  be  quite  so  good,  but 
the  vegetables,  besides  being  less  crude,  will  be  fit  for  use 
in  a  few  days.  Fresh  pickles  look  most  handsome,  but 
old  pickles  eat  better. 


PART  THIRD. 


CHAPTER  I. 

UAINfi-DISHES. 

When  art  and  nature  join,  the  efiEect  will  be 
Some  nioe  ragoui^  or  eharming/ncoMee, 

Kinoes  Cookery 

-'^-^But  prudent  men  will  sometimes  save  their  cash 
By  interlmear  days  of  frugal  hash. 

Grabbers  Tales. 

We  take  for  granted  that  tiie  cook,  at  this  sti^e, 
thoroughly  understands  the  rudiments  of  her  art,  and  is 
manually  an  adept  in  the  elementary  processes  treated  of 
in  the  precediog  chapters.  We  also  hope  that  she  begins 
to  comprehend  the  principles  or  rationale  of  cookery. 
In  the  Introduction  it  has  been  said  that  the  Cook,  like 
the  Surgeon,  must  first  look  on,  observe  carefully,  and 
then  put  to  her  hand ;  for  it  would  be  quite  as  easy  to 
teach  suigery  by  book,  as  many  of  the  manual  operations 
of  cookery.  We  have  found,  by  sad  experience,  that 
printed  directions  for  boning^  trwsififfy  and  larding^  pre- 
paring delicate  sauces  ^-ilfayonnaMe,  for  instance -^  nay 
peeUng  mushrooms  —  only  stupified  an  otherwise  intelli- 
gent young  cook-maid,  who,  when  she  saw  the  thing  done, 
understood  and  could  do  it  at  once.  In  country  lodgings, 
some  time  since,  we  found  our  boiled  fowl  very  well 
cooked,  but  very  ill  trussed.  It  was  offensive  to  the  eye ; 
and  patiently  and  elaborately,  as  we  fancied,  we  explained 
to  a  very  clever  girl  how  the  thing  should  be  done>  and 
the  legs  trussed  inside.  Worse  and  worse !  an  anxious 
attempt  had  been  made ;  and,  next  time,  the  unfortunate 
fowl,  instead  of  its  legs  straddling  out  any  where  as  before, 
appeared  with  the  skin  much  torn,  one  stump  half-in- 
half-out,  and  the  other  exactly  like  the  timber  legs  of 


302  CHAP.  I. — MADE-DI8HES. 

one  of  Wilkie's  veteran  Chelsea  pensioners.  It  was  at 
once  ludicrous  and  provoking;  and  the  distress  of  the 
young  candidate  of  the  stove  most  pitiable.  But  where 
there  is  a  will  there  is  a  way.  Book  knowledge  was  in 
this  case  given  up  in  despair,  and  the  manner  shovm,  by 
an  old  kitchen-maid  in  the  village, — no  great  cook.  From 
that  period  we  have  held,  that  unless  ladies  will  learn  to 
put  to  their  own  delicate  hands,  and  show  their  uniu' 
structed  cooks  how  to  proceed — ^a  duty  which  we  certainly 
do  not  require  of  gentlewomen  or  gentlemen  —  the  lesson 
should  be  given  by  some  one  properly  qualified.  If  a 
lady  obtain  that  rare  prize,  a  thorough  cook,  nothing 
more  is  required  than  books  to  refresh  her  memory  and 
extend  her  knowledge ;  but,  if  only  a  clever  intelligent 
girl,  capable  of  becoming  a  cook  —  a  humble  function, 
which  yet  requires  sound  intellectual  faculties,  whatever 
may  be  thought  of  it  —  the  mistress  should  at  once  send 
the  young  woman  to  where  she  may  see  cookery  performed 
in  all  its  departments,  from  skinning  a  hare,  or  gutting 
fish,  to  the  most  delicate  offices.  The  cook  will,  if  clever 
and  willing,  in  a  very  short  time  learn  to  clean  thoroughly 
— a  great  point — ^to  tmsSy  to  bone,  to  lard,  to  whip,  to  mill, 
and  fifty  other  things,  which  no  printed  instructions  can 
teach  half  so  well  or  easily  as  a  single  example.  Let 
the  young  cook,  therefore,  previous  to  taking  a  place,  go, 
or,  if  selected  by  a  mistress,  from  being  intelligent,  active, 
and  hopeful,  be  sent  to  observe,  and  try.  This,  in  the  first 
place  ;  and,  while  in  the  A  B  C  of  the  art,  the  school 
should  be  in  the  kitchen  of  a  family  where  there  is 
a  good  and  experienced  plain  cook.  Another  step,  is 
that  recommended  in  our  Introductory  Lectures,  of 
seeing  handsome  dinners  dressed,  and  assisting  in  their 
preparation, .  in  a  private  family  where  dinners  are 
given  with  some  frequency.  Where  more  instruction 
is  required,  there  are  now  regular  French  or  French-bred 
professors  of  the  art  in  most  of  our  considerable  towns, 
who  receive  pupils,  and  who,  going  out  to  families  to  prepare 
fashionable  dinners,  take  their  female  pupils  along  with 
them  to  look  on,  and  to  assist.  Yoimg  ladies  in  the  middle 
ranks  do  still  occasionally  take  lessons  in  pastry,  oonfec- 


tionary,  and  preserving, — which  for  them  is  going  quite  far 
enough  ;  for  though  it  is  perfectly  right,  and,  indeed,  indis- 
pensahle,  that  all  young  housekeepers  should  know  how  to 
give  orders,  and  even  directions,  and  know  when  they  are 
well  served,  it  is  going  to  the  extreme  to  hear  of  gentle- 
women who  have,  or  ought  to  have,  other  duties  and  pur- 
suits, attending  in  the  kitchens  of  hotels  and  cluhs,  to  learn 
cookery.  But  enough  of  this ;  and  presupposing  that  the 
cook  thoroughly  understands  the  rudiments  of  her  art, 
and  many  of  its  plainer  hut  most  important  hranches, 
we  now  proceed  to  Madb-Dishbs. 


What  is  technically  termed  Made-IHsheSy  (the  entries 
and  entremets  of  the  French  Kitchen,)  presupposes  either 
a  more  elahorate  mode  of  cookery  than  plain  frying^  hmiU 
ing^  or  roctsUng;  or  else  some  comhination  of  those  ele- 
mentary processes,  —  as,  for  example,  half-roasting  and 
finishing  in  the  stew-pan,  which  is  a  common  way  of 
dressing  a  ragmst.  Most  dishes  commonly  called  French 
diskesy  are  of  the  class  Made-dishes^  such  as  fricassees  and 
ragautSf  meat  braised^  larded^  &c.,  and  so  are  hcuhes^  curries^ 
and  generally  all  viands  that  are  repressed  or  re-made. 

To  understand  this  Chapter  properly,  the  young  cook 
should  first  study  the  directions  for  braising,  for  cooking 
in  a  poSle  or  a  blanc  ;  also  the  mixing  of  forcemeat,  cook's 
peppers,  and  other  seasonings,  and  how  to  make  and  use 
all  sorts  of  garnishes,  as  sippets,  fried  parsley,  casserole 
edgings,  croustades,  hread-borders,  farce-balls,  egg-balls, 
grilled  toasts  of  all  kinds,  also  serving  in  vol-au-vent^  in  iim" 
balles,  glazing  and  demi-glazing,  glazing  onions  and  celery 
for  garnishes,  paste  and  rice  borders,  dishing  in  various 
forms,  and  many  other  matters.  She  should  understand 
the  qualities  and  uses  of  the  different  catsups  and  flavoured 
toines  and  vinegars;  and  what  flavours  are  best  adapted 
to  the  several  meats ;  as  horseradish  with  dishes  of  beef, 
lemon-peel,  or  lemon-juice  with  veal,  &c.  These  things 
should  be  diligently  studied,  under  the  respective  heads, 
as  pointed  out  in  the  Index. — Study  also  French  Cookery 
and  the  Glossary  o/Ctdinary  Terms. 

To  dress  a  Made-dish  properly  requires  rather  judg* 


d04  CHAP.  I. ^MADE  DISHBS. 

menty  contrivance^  and  resource,  than  groat  manual  dex-> 
terity.  It  is  in  fact  more  difficult  to  broil  a  chop 
properly  than  to  dress  a  roffouty  provided  the  cook 
knows  how  to  proportion  seasonings,  and  to  blend  flavours 
with  taste  and  judgment.  Stewing  is  the  commonest  form 
of  dressing  Made-dishes,  and  is  besides  that  mode  of  cook- 
ery which  is  best  adapted  to  all  dry,  fibrous^  harsh  meats. 
Its  perfection  consists  in  the  extreme  slowness  with 
which  the  process  is  conducted ;  and  the  closeness  of  the 
vessel  in  which  the  meat  is  cimtained.  The  lid  of  a  stew* 
pan,  or  digester,  after  its  contents  have  beea  skimmed,  ought 
to  be  as  seldom  removed  as  possible  ;  but  the  stew-pan 
may  be  frequently  shaken,  to  prevent  the  meat  from 
adhering  either  to  the  bottom  or  to  the  sides.'*^  Stewing  is 
recommended  by  Dr.  Cullen  as  the  best  mode  of  cookery 
for  retaining  all  the  native  succulence  of  the  meat,  thus  ob- 
taining from  it  the  greatest  quantity  of  nourishment ;  and 
likewise  as  promotive  of  digestion :  —  The  last  assertion, 
though  of  so  great  authority,  may  be  questioned. 

Made-dishes  are  valued  by  the  gourmand  for  their 
savouriness  or  their  piquancy.  They  are  equally  es- 
teemed by  the  economist,  from  the  circumstance  that  a 
much  less  quantity  of  material  than  would  suffice  for  a 
boll  or  roast,  will  make  a  handsome  and  highly-flavoured 
dish ;  while,  by  the  various  modes  of  re-dressing^  every  thing 
cold  may,  in  a  new  Made-dish,  be  turned  to  good  account. 
A  common  fault  of  English  Made-dbhes  is,  that  they  are 
overdone.  While  a  large  dinner  is  proceeding,  the  stew- 
pans  are  neglected,  because  their  contents  sustain  less 
apparent  injury  than  is  instantly  visible  on  roasts,  brolk, 
or  fries;  and  also  because  cooks  ^either  do  not  know,  or 
forget,  that  meat  stewing  in  its  own  rich  juices  is  often 
exposed  to  a  more  intense  heat  than  in  boiling  or  roasting. 

The  general  rules  we  would  give  for  dressing  Made- 
dishes  are,  1st,  That  they  be  not  over-hastily  done,  but 
rather  removed  from  the  fire,  steamer,  or  hot-plate,  as  a 
very  few  minutes  at  any  time  will  finish  them  completely ; 

*  It  would  be  a  great  improvement  if  the  lids  of  stew-pans  permitted 
turf  or  charcoal  to  be  put  over,  as  well  as  under,  the  meat,  unless  where 
there  are  scientific  ranges,  witn  steaming  apparatus. 


OF  BEEF.  805 

2d,  That  the  sauce  he  smooth  and  properly  thickened,  so 
as  to  adhere  to  the  meat,  —  and  that  the  pieces  of  meat, 
fillets  of  poultry,  &c.,  of  which  they  are  composed,  be 
nicely  trimmed,  cut  perfectly  smooth  with  a  fine-edged 
knife,  and  never  left  clumsily  large.  This  is  peculiarly 
to  be  attended  to  in  re-dressing  cold  meat ;  which  some- 
times comes  to  table  mangled  and  lacerated,  as  if  it  had 
been  gnawed,  not  carved.  Palates,  sweetbreads,  &c.  may 
be  cut  into  scollops,  or  other  pretty  fonns,  as  is  common 
in  French  cookery. 

The  very  name  Made-dish,  with  us,  implies  something 
savoury  and  highly  relishing  ;  and  though  over-seasoning 
is  to  be  avoided,  it  is  proper  that  Made-dishes  should  rather 
be  savoury  or  piquant  than  insipid.  We  name  many  things 
Made- dishes,  which  French  cooks  call  removes  or  flanks. 

MADE-DISHES  OF  BEEF. 

See  Chapters,  RiXMtingy  Broiling^  and  Frying, 
386.  To  ragout  or  braise  a  Rump  or  half  Rump  of  Beef  , 
—  Except  for  some  particular  occasion,  a  rump  to  be 
stewed  should  not  be  very  large,  nor  above  ten  inches  in 
thickness,  unless  it  is  salted  a  little.  Cut  out  the  bone 
neatly,  and  break  it ;  and  with  that  and  what  trimmings 
may  be  made  in  smoothing  the  meat,  make  a  little  gravy, 
which  boil  with  onions,  a  carrot,  and  turnip,  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Season  the  rump  highly  with 
cooks'  pepper  and  a  little  cayenne,  and  skewer  and  tie  it 
firmly  up  with  tape.  Lay  skewers  in  the  bottom  of  a 
nice  clean  stew-pot  that  will  just  hold  the  meat,  and  place 
the  rump  upon  them,  straining  over  it  the  gravy  drawn 
from  the  bones.  When  it  has  simmered,  closely  covered, 
for  an  hour  or  more,  turn  it  over,  and  put  to  it  three 
carrots  sliced,  two  turnips  scooped  to  the  size  of  marbles  ; 
and  in  another  half-hour  four  onions  sliced,  and  a  glass  of 
eschalot  vinegar,  or  plain  vinegar,  with  minced  eschalots, 
and  more  pepper  if  required.  Keep  the  lid  close  the  whole 
time  ;  and  before  dishing,  put  in  a  large  spoonful  of  cat- 
sup, and,  if  you  like,  another  of  made-mustard,  with 
rows,  or  butter  rolled  in  flour,  to  thicken  the  gravy.  The 
rump  may  be  dressed  more  highly  by  filling  up  the  hole 
tvhence  the  bone  is  taken  with  a  relishing  forcemeat,  q^^- 

V 


309  CHAP.  I.— *XAI>E-J>ISHE8 

ing  and  browning  it  before  stewing,  and  putting  wine  to 
the  sauce ;  which  may  also  be  enridied  with  sweetbreads 
or  kernels,  parboiled  and  cut  into  bits.  It  may  be  glaeedy 
and  the  braise  may  be  prepared  with  bacon. — Obs,  A  rump, 
or  part  of  one,  salted  for  four  days  in  summer,  or  a  week 
in  cold  weather,  washed  and  stewed  plainly,  is  an  econo- 
mical as  well  as  an  excellent  dish,  whether  for  company 
or  for  family  use.  It  may  be  divided  diagonally,  so  as  to 
skewer  up  neatly,  or  cut  into  three  parts,  and  stewed  in 
weak  stock  with  roots  as  above.  Skim  the  fat  carefully 
off,  and  serve  the  soup,  which  will  be  very  rich,  on  toasted 
sippets,  and  serve  the  meat  by  itself,  either  garnished  with 
cut  pickles,  or  with  sliced  carrot,  or  onions  prepared  as 
for  garnishing.  (See  No.  262.)  A  rump  is  sometimes 
hcdf'roiutedy  and  finished  in  the  stew-pot  in  broth,  with 
some  mild  ale,  wine,  vinegar,  catsup,  a  fagot  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  onions,  mixed  spices,  pickled  mushrooms,  &c. 
Thb  last  is  an  expensive  dish,  and  has  nothing  to  recom- 
mend it  beyond  a  plainer  dressed  rump,  stewed  carefully 
in  the  stock  intended  to  make  soups  and  sauces  for  the 
same  dinner.  A  sirloin  is  excellent  stewed  ;  but  we  con- 
sider this  a  desecration  of  this  noble  joint. 

387.    TO  STEW  OR  RAOOUT  A  BRISKET  OF  BEEF. 

Take  six  or  eight  pounds  of  a  brisket,  with  the 
firm  fat ;  wash  and  rub  it  with  salt  and  vinegar  before 
dressing  it.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  that  will  just 
hold  it,  with  water  or  stock,  and  when  well  skimmed,  let 
it  stew  very  slowly  for  an  hour,  and  then  put  to  it  cut 
carrots,  turnips,  and  small  whole  onions.  When  it  has 
stewed  slowly  till  very  tender,  draw  out  the  bones,  thicken 
the  gravy  with  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  a  little  catsup, 
and  season  witib^  plenty  of  mixed  spices.  Serve  the  meat 
by  itself,  with  a  garnishing  of  sprigs  of  cauliflower,  and  the 
sauce  made  of  the  thickened  gravy,  with  more  catsup,  and, 
if  approved,  a  little  made-mustard.  —  Obs^  A  haricot  of 
beef  (excellent)  may  be  made  of  the  above,  by  dividing 
the  meat  into  two  dozen  neat  pieces,  browning  them,  and 
putting  in  two  sliced  heads  of  celery  and  forcemeat  balls, 
in  addition  to  the  ingredients  ordered  above* 
-  388.  Another  way, — The  French  ^^  Baruf  Garni  de 


OF 


307 


Ckoux^''*  an  excellent  di$h.  —  Tie  up  and  boil  firm  whiio 
cabbages  cut  in  qnarterB.  Finish  them  in  any  good  6ratM» 
or  broth  seasoned  with  roots.  Moisten  them  with  a  little 
top-fat.  Then  drain  the  cabbage,  press  out  the  fat,  untie 
and  serre  them  neatly  round  the  beef  stewed  as  above. 

A  Backehf'e  Bound  of  Beef ^  —  Have  from  four  to  six 
pounds  of  a  fine  rib,  boned,  skewered,  and  bandaged  round 
like  a  fillet  of  Teal  prepared  for  roasting.  Rub  it  briskly 
with  salt,  and  next  day  place  it  in  a  cold  boiled  pickle, 
in  which  the  least  particle  of  saltpetre  is  dissolved  by 
boiling.  In  from  six  days  to  ten,  as  you  wisli,  wash  the 
meat^  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  put  it  in  hot  water,  and  boil 
from  three  qniurters  of  an  hour  to  two  hours,  in  proportion 
to  the  weight ;  for  it  may  be  eight  or  ten  pounds.  Serve 
with  laige  carrots  boiled  with  the  round ;  and  greens  or 
savoys,  boiled  in  water  enriched  with  the  pot  liquor,  and 
served  in  a  vegetable  dish.  A  plated  skewer  may  replace 
the  wooden  or  iron  one. 

d89.  TO  STEW  A  SHIN  OF  BEEF,  OT  BouUH  Ordinaire, 
Have  the  shin-bone  sawed  across  in  three  dififerent 
places  without  cutting  the  fleshy  side.  Place  skewers  in  the 
stew-pot,  and  lay  the  meat  on  them,  and  as  much  water 
as  will  nearly  cover  it.  When  this  is  skimmed,  put  in  a 
bundle  of  herbs,  a  large  head  of  celery  cut,  four  onions, 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  black  and  Jamaica  peppercorns 
in  a  bag ;  cover  the  pot  very  close,  and  let  the  meat  stew 
slowly  for  three  hours,  when  more  cut  carrots  may  be  put 
to  it,  and  afterwards  cut  turnip,  with  a  dozen  of  small 
onions ;  stew  for  another  hour.  Make  a  sauce  for  the 
Bouilli,  by  thickening  and  seasoning  a  pint  of  the  soup 
with  catsup,  spices,  and  a  little  made-mustard.  The 
French  satice  hachie  is  also  a  very  suitable  garnish  along 
with  the  onions.     See  No.  591. 

390.    BEEF  OR  VEAL  k  LA  MODE. 

The  clod,  the  mouse-buttock,  the  rump,  or  the  thick  of 
the  flank^  may  be  dressed  d.  la  mode.  Rub  from  six  to  ten 
pounds  of  the  rump  well  with  mixed  spices  and  salt,  and 
dredge  it  with  flour.  Lay  skewers  in  the  bottom  of  a 
stew-pan,  and  on  them  spread  some  thin  slices  of  streaked 
bacon ;  place  the  meat  on  these,  with  a  few  more  slices  of 
bacon  above,  and  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar  and  grav^ 


308  CHAP.  I.— XADB-DISHES 

or  good  broth.  Make  the  stew-pan  very  close,  and  let 
the  meat  stew  as  slowly  as  possible  over  embers  for  two 
hours.  Turn  it,  and  put  to  the  gravy  a  high'  seasoning 
of  cloves,  black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  with  three  bay^leaves 
and  some  mushrooms  if  in  season,  or  a  little  catsup,  and  a 
dozen  button  onions  half  roasted.  Let  it  again  stew  very 
slowly  till  the  meat  is  tender.  Pick  out  the  bay-leaves  and 
bacon,  and  serve  the  meat  in  a  deep  dish  with  the  gravy, 
which,  if  slowly  stewed,  will  have  thickened  to  the  con- 
sistence of  glaze.  A  fillet  of  veal  is  very  good  dressed  in 
the  same  manner.  Though  the  gristly  part  of  the  breast 
is  best  adapted  for  this  purpose,  lemon-grate  may  be  added 
to  the  veal  seasonings,  but  no  catsup.  Butter  may  be 
substituted  for  bacon,  and  with  veal  should  be. 

Obs» — A  la  mode  will  ever  be  a  good  way  of  dressing 
beef,  for  luxurious,  healthy  eaters.  It  should  now  be 
called  d  V antique.  The  (Julotte  de  Boeuf  d  la  GelUe  of  the 
French  kitchen,  called  also  Bceuf  d  la  RcyaUy  differs  very 
little  from  beef  d  la  tnode,  save  that  it  is  tied  up,  and, 
when  half  baked  and  braised,  is  boned.  It  is  glazed, 
served  with  its  own  gravy,  and  garnished  with  pickles  or 
parsley ;  and  in  hiffh  style,  with  different  coloured  meat- 
jellies,  cut  in  figures.     Many  cooks  lard  the  meat. 

Plain  good  d  la  mode  Beef,  or  Brazilian  Stew, — (We  are, 
we  believe,  indebted  for  this  receipt  to  Mr.  Charles  Knight 
the  publisher.)  Cut  a  shin  of  beef  into  three-ounce  slices, 
dip  them  in  vinegar,  and  stew  them  very  slowly :  no  water 
is  required  ;  in  three  or  four  hours,  by  a  slow  fire,  the  meat 
will  have  yielded  abundant  gravy,  and  be'  tender  as  a 
chicken ;  when  it  may  be  seasoned,  and  served. 

391.  DR.  hunter's  receipt  for  a  stewed  brisket. 

Brisket  of  Beef  stewed  savoury, — Take  eight  pounds  of 
the  brisket,  and  stew  it  till  quite  tender,  in  as  much 
water  as  will  just  "  steam  "  the  meat.  When  sufficiently 
tender,  take  out  the  bones,  and  carefully  skim  off  the  fat. 
Take  a  pint  of  the  liquor,  put  to  it  the  third  of  a  pint  of 
red  wine,  a  little  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  and  some 
salt.  Tie  up  in  a  bit  of  muslin  some  whole  white  pepper 
and  mace,  and  stew  these  together  for  a  short  time.  Have 
ready  three  carrots  and  turnips  boiled  tender,  and  cut  into 
the  form  of  dice ;  strew  them  hot  upon  the  beef,  putting  a 


OF  BBEF.  309 

few  into  the  dish.     Traffled  and  morells  ihay  be  added^ 
— when  you  can  get  them,  the  Dr.  should  have  said. 

392.  To  collar  Beef, — ^Choose  the  tiiin  part  of  the  flank, 
or  what  in  Scotland  is  called  the  nine-holes  or  runner.  Let 
the  meat  be  young,  tender,  and  well  grained,  but  not  very 
fat,  as  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold.  Rub  it  with  salt  mixed  with 
a  very  little  saltpetre  ;  and  when  it  has  drained  a  night,  rub 
it  thoroughly  well  with  a  mixture  of  sugar,  salt,  pounded 
pepper,  and  allspice.  Let  it  lie  a  week  in  the  salting  tray, 
turning  it,  and  basting  daily  with  the  pickle  that  will 
gather.  If  the  weather  is  cold,  it  may  lie  ten  days ;  then 
bone  it,  and  cut  away  all  the  gristly  parts,  and  the  coarse 
inner  skin.  Dry  it,  and  strew  over  the  inside  chopped 
herbs  and  cooks'  pepper ;  that  done,  roll  it  up  as  tightly 
as  possible,  bind  it  with  broad  fillets  of  strong  cloth,  and 
these  with  tape ;  press  it  under  a  heavy  weight,  and  then 
undo  the  bandages  and  re-fasten  them,  (as  the  meat  will 
have  shrunk,)  and  make  the  ends  very  fast.  It  will  re- 
quire from  three  to  four  hours  slow  but  constant  boiling. 
When  done,  press  it  again  while  still  bound ;  and  when 
cold,  undo  the  bandages.  It  may  be  served  hot,  vnth 
savoys  or  carrot,  but  it  is  most  valued  for  slicing  down 
cold. — 0l>8,  A  large  fore-quarter  of  mutton,  with  the 
shoulder-blade  cut  off,  will  collar^  and  so  will  veal,  but 
neither  of  these  eat  nearly  so  well  as  collared  beef. — Berf 
is  pressed  flat  to  slice  for  sandwiches  or  to  eat  cold,  exactly 
in  the  above  manner,  but  then  it  is  not  bound  up ;  it  eats 
as  well,  and  is  prepared  w^ith  much  less  trouble.  Spiced 
and  collared  beef  is  now  prepared  for  sale,  —  so  very 
good  that  we  hesitate  to  give  directions  about  it ;  the 
West  of  Scotland  is  famous  for  this  manufacture. 

393.  To  roast  collared  Ribs  of  Beef — Take  out  the 
bones  when  the  meat  has  hung  till  tender,  season  it  highly 
with  spices  and  herbs,  and  rolling  tightly  up,  roast  or  bake 
it,  or  dress  it  as  Hunter's  beef. — Ohs,  This  is  an  ex- 
cellent and  economical  dish,  as  a  good  soup  can  at  once  be 
made  from  the  trimmings  and  the  bones  cut  out.  A  neck 
or  back*ribs  of  mutton,  boned,  seasoned,  and  sprinkled  with 
^ried  parsley  and  sage,  will  roast  as  above,  and  the  bones 


1 


dlO  CHAP.  I.— ]fA]»-DI8HE8 

and  scrag  make  rioe-Bonp  or  barley-broth  ;  but  we  would 
rather  recommend  this  to  the  economist  than  to  the 
fastidious  eater ;  for  although  two  good  di^es  are  by  this 
means  presented  at  table,  this  particular  piece  of  meat 
eats  better  dressed  as  chops,  pie,  hauilliy  or  cunrie^  than  as 
a  roast,  when  the  roH  can  be  dispensed  with. 

394.  BrUkei  o/*  Be^  d  la  Flamande.-^TAe  eight 
pounds  of  the  gristly  nice  part  of  the  brisket ;  trim  and 
season  it.  Put  it  to  stew  in  a  stew-pan  with  the  trim- 
mings, and  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  under  and  over  it.  Put 
to  it  carrots  and  turnips  cut  and  scooped  into  the  shapes 
of  cocks'  combs,  pigeons'  eggs,  &c.,  and  also  some  cabbage 
previously  dressed  in  top-fat  or  good  broth.  Arrange  the 
regetables  with  a  few  glazed  onions  round  the  meat,  and 
thicken  a  pint  of  the  broth  for  sauce. — ^See  German 
Onion  Beefy  and  Potage  aux  chaua, 

395.  To  dress  Ox-PakOes, — Clean  and  boil  them  till  the 
npper  skin  will  eadly  pull  off ;  and  either  cut  them  into 
long  fillets  and  square  bits,  or  merely  divide  them.  Stew 
them  very  slowly  in  good  gravy  thickened  with  butter 
kneaded  in  brown  flour,  and  season  them  with  cayenne, 
minced  eschalot,  or  onion,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  catsup ; 
or  the  pickle  of  'Walnuts,  mushrooms,  or  even  of  onions, 
which  is  very  good  for  plain  purposes. — Obs.  This  we 
think  the  most  suitable  way  of  dressing  palates ;  but  they 
are  often  in  France  more  expensively  prepared,  by  adding 
forcemeat,  wine,  and  mushrooms,  or  even  truffles  and 
morells  to  the  sauce ;  or  by  dressing  them  as  a  fricassee 
in  white  sauce.  Palates  are  also  served  with  cucumbers, 
or  with  sauce  toumie*  In  fine  cookery  they  are  served  in 
ToUathvent  or  casserole^  (see  French  Cookery^  or  cut  in 
pretty  shapes  and  served  in  a  rich  brown  sauce.  Palates 
are  suitable  to  the  dejeuner  d  la  foarehette^  either  served  hot 
like  kidneys,  with  Soubise  sauce,  or  pickled  and  eaten  cold. 

396.  The  Bachelot^s  Stew  of  Beef  or  Veal. — Order  from  two 
and  a  half  to  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  rump,  or  fillet, 
or  mouse- buttock,  shaped  as  a  handsome  steak,  about  two 
inches  thick  ;  put  a  very  little  butter  in  a  small  stew-pan, 
and   pepper  well,  and   brown   the  meat;    add   a  half- 


OF  HEEF.  811 

pint  of  water,  and  place  two  carrots  cut  in  very  thick 
slices^  and  the  woody  part  taken  out  with  an  apple-corer, 
over  the  meat ;  ck>8e  the  lid  yery  fiaflt,  and  first  heating 
through,  let  the  stew  simmer  very  slowly  by  the  fire — 
the  heat  of  a  match  or  a  few  cinders  is  sufficient— for 
■  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  turn  it  over,  still  keeping 
the  carrots  uppermost;  add  four  small  whole  onions,  a 
little  salt,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  and  what  boiling  water 
you  think  necessary ;  but,  as  the  steam  is  kept  in,  and 
the  gravy  drawn,  none  or  very  little  may  be  required. 
Simmer  on  a  trivet,  or  the  hob,  or  a  toaster,  before  the 
fire  for  an  hour  more,  and  dish  with  the  sauce  and  roots 
as  garnish.  Celery  may  in  part  be  substituted  for  the 
other  roots ;  and  the  stew  may  be  seasoned  and  flavoured 
in  various  ways.  The  same  quantity  of  a  fillet  of  veal 
may  be  cooked  as  above,  seasoning  with  juice  and  rind  of 
lemon, -and  a  bit  of  hain ;  and  using  peas  for  carrots.  A 
fowl  may  be  well  cooked  as  above,  with  celery  or  a  few 
mushrooms.  The  main  thing  is,  the  slowness  of  the  pro- 
cess, and  the  closeness  of  the  lid,  which  may  be  pressed 
down  with  a  smoothing-iron  or  heavy  weight.  In  the 
French  kitchen  there  are  growed  lids  for  saucepans,  and 
tin  pudding-moulds,  which  are  most  useful. 

Beef-Steahs  ivith  Cucumbers, -^"PsLTe  and  slice  three  large 
cucumbers,  and  as  many  onions.  Fry  them  in  butter, 
and  when  browned,  add  a  half-pint  of  gravy.  Beat  and 
season  some  rump-steaks  and  fry  them.  Dish  them  in 
a  very  hot^dish,  and  pour  the  above  cucumber-sauce  hot  over 
them.  —  Obs,  This  is  a  good  dish  for  variety,  with  very 
little  expense. — Se^  Beef- Steaks,  Nos.  38,  39,  46,  47. 

397.  To  stew  a  Tongue. — Trim  off  the  coarse  part  of  the 
root,  but  leave  on  some  of  the  soft'  fat.  Rub  the  tongue 
with  salt,  sugar,  and  pounded  allspice,  and  let  it  lie  in  tiiis 
for  a  few  days.  Stew  it  in  a  small  close  saucepan  for  an 
hour,  and  then  skin  it ;  strain  the  liquor,  put  some  fresh 
broth  to  it  if  necessary,  a  fagot  of  sweet  herbs,  two  bay- 
leaves,  and  a  head  of  young  celery  sliced.  When  the 
tongue  has  stewed  in  this  very  slowly  for  nearly  another 
hour,  take  out  the  herbs  and  bay-leaves,  and  season  the 
gravy  with  cayenne,  pounded  cloves,  mixed   spices,  and 


312  CHAP.  I. MADE  DISHES 

a  little  walnut-pickle.  Serve  the  tongue  in  a  deep  dicih, 
with  the  sauce  about  it,  and  a  few  dressed  mushrooms  or 
small  onions  previously  roasted  and  peeled.  This  is  an 
excellent  and  not  an  expensive  dish  ;  and  if  any  gravy  be 
lefty  nothing  can  be  better  adapted  for  a  sauce  to  ragouts. 
The  tongue  may  be  cut  open  the  long  way,  but  not  quite 
divided,  and  so  spread  out  on  the  dish. — Obs.  This  diflFers 
little  from  the  French  langue  de  hceufd  la  braise^  save  that 
the  French  dish  is  enriched  by  the  trimmings  of  game, 
poultry,  or  veal,  put  to  the  braise,  and  has  a  little  wine 
put  to  the  sauce.  Pickled  tongttes  are  frequently  glazed^ 
after  (of  course)  being  boiled  and  skinned.  They  are 
sometimes  served  on  mashed  turnips  or  spinage,  but  more 
handsomely  with  a  lice  border.  Scarlet  tonguesy  cold,  may 
be  sliced,  and  have  the  slices  glazed. 

398.  To  dress  Beef-Kidn^Sy  the  Scotch  Kidne^'Colhps,-^ 
Cut  a  fresh  kidney  in  slices  of  the  size  of  very  small  steaks, 
orintomouthfuls.  Soak  the  slices  in  water,  and  dry  them 
well.  Dust  them  with  flour,  and  brown  them  in  the 
stew-pan  with  fresh  butter.  When  the  coUops  are 
browned,  pour  some  hot  water  into  the  pan,  a  minced 
eschalot,  or  the  white  of  four  young  onions  minced,  with 
salt,  pepper,  shred  parsley,  and  a  spoonful  of  plain  or  eschalot 
vinegar,  or  of  onion-pickle  liquor.  Cover  the  stew-pan 
close,  and  let  the  coUops  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours  at 
least.  We  give  all  internal  parts  of  animals  twice  the 
time  to  cook  allowed  by  ordinary  authorities.  If  a 
flavoured  vinegar  is  not  used,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom 
catsup  put  in  before  the  collops  are  dished  will  be  a  great 
improvement.  Thicken  the  gravy.  Garnish  with  fried 
parsley. — Obs,  Some  good  cooks  season  this  dish  with  an 
anchovy  and  lemon  pickle  ;  others  add  made-mustard. 

399.  Beef  KidneySy  for  the  Dejeuner  a  la  Fourchette, — 
Mince  the  kidneys  into  bits  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut,  and 
season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Fry  the 
mince  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  tender ;  moisten  it  with 
gravy  and  champagne,  and  serve  in  a  hot- water  dish.  Cat- 
sup, or  lemon  or  walnut  pickle,  may  be  used  in  place  of 
wine,  and  the  mince  may  be  first  marinaded  in  vinegar  and 
herbs,  — See  French  Cookery^  Rogons  de  MotUon^ 


OF  BEEF.  did 

~  400.  To  stew  Ox-TaiU. — ^Let  the  butcher  divide  them  at 
the  joints.  Scald  them ;  dry,  and  brown  them  in  tlie 
stew-pan,  add  a  little  hot  water  or  weak  broth,  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour.  Stew  them 
^slowly  till  tender,  and  season  with  salt,  mixed  peppers, 
minced  parsley,  and  either  a  spoonful  of  catsup  or  eschalot 
vinegar.  We  think  cayenne  an  improvement.  —  See 
1^0.  96. 

401.  HotehrPoich  of  Ox-Tails^  or  Rumps  a  la  tnodcy  a 
French  Dish.  —  Have  two  tails  jointed,  and  blanch  them 
as  for  soup.  Cover  a  stew-pan  with  trimmings  of  meat 
or  poultry,  and  put  in  the  tails,  with  four  sliced  onions, 
two  carrots,  a  fagot  of  herbs,  a  bay-leaf,  three  cloves,  and 
a  bit  of  garlic.  Moisten  this  with  two  ladlefuls  of  broth, 
cover  it  with  slices  of  bacon,  then  paper,  then  the  lid,  and 
over  all  put  a  few  cinders.  Let  it  simmer  for  four  hours, 
till  the  meat  part  easily  from  the  bones  with  a  spoon. 
Serve  with  a  ragout  of  roots  stewed  (after  boiling)  in  the 
sauce  of  the  tails  or  in  melted  butter^  — 06^.  Ox-tail 
dressed  as  above  is  very  good  served  with  a  sauce,  or  pur^e 
of  peas,  or  with  sauce  hackee. 

402.  Beef-Olives. — Cut  slices  from  the  rump  half  an 
inch  thick,  six  inches  long,  and  three  inches  broad. 
Flatten  them,  dip  them  in  e^g^  and  then  in  a  seasoning 
made  of  pulverized  or  finely  shred  herbs,  bread-crumbs, 
mixed  spices,  and  salt.  If  the  meat  be  lean,  a  little  shred 
suet  may  be  flattened  into  each  piece  of  meat.  Roll 
them  neatly  up,  and  fasten  them  with  pack-thread :  —  a 
little  forcemeat  may  be  put  in  each.  The  olives  may 
either  be  roasted  on  a  lark-spit,  and  served  with  a  drawn 
gravy,  or  browned  and  stewed  over  embers  in  a  brotli 
made  of  the  skins  and  trimmings.  Thicken  the  sauce, 
and  season  it  with  catsup,  and  untying,  and,  dishing  the 
olives  neatly,  skim  and  pour  it  very  hot  over  them. 

403.  Olives  au  Moi — a  favourite  small  dish. — Mash  two 
pounds  of  boiled  potatoes ;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  two  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and  one  spoonful  of  flour ; 
season  this  with  salt  and  pepper ;  take  six  long  slices  of 
beef  beat  out  very  thin  ;  strew  over  them  a  mixture  of  a 


314  CHAP.  1. — J 

spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  the'  same  of  paisley,  and  of 
mushrooms;  spread  the  potato-paste  on  the  oUves,  and 
roll  them  up  ;  fry  or  bake  half  an  hour ;  glaze  them,  and 
put  some  plain  brown  sauce  under  them.  Six  will  make  a 
good- sized,  nice  dish. — Ob8»  Veal  may  be  done  the  same  way. 
Beef-Olives  m&y  he  baked  in  a  potato  or  other  paste  border. 

404.  Beef  Marrow-Bones, — Have  them  neatly  sawed 
by  the  butcher.  Fill  up  the  opening  with  a  piece  of 
dough  or  paste,  and  tie  a  floured  cloth  over  that.  Boil 
them,  placed  upright,  in  the  soup-pot  (keeping  them 
covered)  for  nearly  two  hours.  Serve  upright  on  a 
napkin,  accompanied  with  slips  of  dry  toast.  Marrow- 
bones may  also  be  baked,  covered  with  batter. 

405.  Beef-Heart, — In  England  a  heart  is  cut  up,  soaked 
to  free  it  from  the  blood,  and  has  the  lobes  cut  off,  after 
which  it  is  stuffed  with  forcemeat  as  a  roasted  hare, 
covered  with  paper  or  veal  caul,  and  roasted,  and  served 
with  venison  sauce.  In  Scotland  beef-heart  is  often  dressed 
as  minced  coUops,  with  a  proportion  of  beef,  or,  which  we 
consider  the  best  way  of  dressing  it,  is  prepared  as  a  cheap 
stew-soup  thus : — Clean  and  cut  the  heart  in  large  pieces 
lengthwise.  Put  these  into  a  stew-pot  with  cold  water 
and  salt,  and  carefully  skim  away  the  blood,  which  will 
be  thrown  up  in  large  quantities.  Take  up  the  parboiled 
pieces,  and  carve  them  into  mouthfuls ;  return  them  into 
the  strained  liquor  with  plenty  of  shred  onion,  a  shred 
head  or  two  of  celery,  pepper,  and  allspice,  and  a  dozen 
peeled  potatoes,  or  some  sliced  carrots.  This  is  a  highly 
nourishing,  well-flavoured,  and  economical  stew-soup,  as 
the  half  of  a  good  fat  bullock's  heart  will  be  sufficient  to 
make  it. — For  Boast  Beef  see  page  102 ;  for  Steaks^ 
CollopSy  Sfc,  pages  131,  132, 133;  Tripe,  page  143. 

406.  Beef  Skirts. — These  make  a  nice  small  dish  dressed 
as  palates.  The  French  braise  and  farce  them  with 
mushrooms  or  oysters :  they  may  be  served  with  a  ragout 
of  cucumber,  or  over  spinage  or  fried  toasts. 

407*  Beef-Liver  may  be  used  when  sound,  (and  is  con- 
stantly used  on  the  Continent,)  either  in  a  stew*soup  with 
carrot  and  onion,  or  slowly  cooked  in  butter  or  with  bacon. 


OV  BBSF.  315 

as  calfa  lirer:    or  as  directed  for  lamb*s  liver  in  the 
Scotch  mode,  No.  58. 

408.  Beef-  Udder  may  be  boiled,  sliced,  and  served  with 
tomata  or  onion-sauce  :  udder  is  also  salted  for  two  days, 
tacked  to  a  tongue,  and  they  are  boiled  together.  Salted 
udder  is  eaten  cold  with  oil  and  vinegar.  It  should  be 
very  slowly  simmered. 

409.  Spked  or  .Hunter's  Beef,  — Take  the  bone  from  a 
small  round  and  salt  it,  as  directed  for  a  rump  of  beef, 
using  grated  nutmeg,  half  an  ounce,  and  the  same  weight 
of  cloves.  When  to  be  dressed,  wash  with  a  sponge,  bind 
it  tightly  up,  and  put  it  into  a  tin  or  earthenware  pan 
that  wiU  just  hold  it,  with  a  pint  of  melted  butter  or 
gravy,  and  a  little  butter  on  the  top ;  cover  the  pan  with 
several  folds  of  brown  paper,  or  a  close-fitting  lid.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven  for  four  hours. — ^The  hole  whence  the  bone  is 

^taken  may  be  stufied  with  sweet  herbs  or  minced  udder. 
The  gravy  in  the  pan,  after  the  beef  is  baked,  will  be  almost 
equal  to  ham-sauce  for  strength  and  flavour ;  and  is  very 
useful  for  flavouring  soups  and  sauces.  Herbs,  coriander- 
seeds,  juniper,  and  garlic,  are  all  used  for  this  piquant 
dish  by  the  French.  They  braise  it  with  roots,  bacon, 
and  wine.  This  dish  may  be  glazed  and  garnished  with 
pickles  and  meat-jelly ;  and  thus  decorated,  when  cold,  even 
after  being  previously  served  hot,  makes  a  handsome 
dormata  dish  at  an  entertainment  where  there  is  a  long 
table  to  cover. 

410.  Basuf  de  Chaese^  another  form  of  Spiced  Beef*  — 
Bone  a  piece  of  the  flank  of  fifteen  pounds.  Take  one 
ounce  of  saltpetre,  two  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar,  two 
bruised  nutmegs,  a  half-ounce  of  cloves,  and  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  allspice,  with  two  large  handfuls  of  salt 
dried.  Pound  and  mix  these  well,  and  rub  them  well 
into  the  beef.  Keep  it  two  weeks  in  this  pickle,  turning 
and  rubbing  it  daily.  Wash,  bind  it  up,  skewer,  and 
boil  it,  or  bake  it  for  four  houi*s  in  a  slow  oven. 

411.  Dutch  or  Hamburgh  Beef,  —  Rub  a  rump  of  beef 
with  brown  sugar,  and  let  it  lie  three  days,  tuiiiing  it 
often ;  then  wipe  i1^  and  salt  it  with  four  ounces  of  bay  salt, 
four  ounces  common  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  all 


316  CHAP.  1. — ^MADB>DISHBS 

vrell  beaten  and  mixed.  Let  it  lie  in  this  for  a  fortnight^ 
turning  it,  and  then  roll  it  tight  in  a  cloth,  and  press  it 
under  a  weight.  Smoke  the  meat  in  the  cloth,  hung  in 
a  chimney  where  wood  is  burned ;  boil  it  piecemeal,  or 
fry  with  bacon  in  slices,  as  it  is  wanted ;  when  boiled, 
press  it  till  cold,  and  it  will  grate  or  pull  like  the  real 
Dutch  beef. — Obs.  Too  much  saltpetre  and  sal  prunella  is 
generally  used  for  salting  meat.  It  is  incredible  (till 
tried)  how  small  a  particle  will  give  the  desired  red 
colour. 

412.  Hdmburffh  Beef^  or  BasuffumS,  This  is  cured  in 
nearly  the  same  manner  as  No.  411.  Take  sugar,  salt, 
a  very  little  saltpetre,  juniper-berries,  and  pound  them ; 
mix  spices  with  them  and  aromatics,  all  in  powder.  Rub 
the  beef  well  with  this,  and  leave  it  for  a  fortnight,  turning 
it  every  day,  and,  like  all  meat  pickled,  keeping  it  covered ; 
tie  up,  drain,  and  smoke  it  for  a  week.  In  Grermany, 
when  boiled,  it  is  served  on  saur  crouU. — For  SaUingy  see 

No.  liar. 

413.  Irish  Beef.  —  Proceed  as  directed  for  a  rump  or 
round,  only  season  with  nutmeg  and  mace,  as  well  as  the 
ingredients  mentioned  there. — Read  Oba,^  Chap»  siting. 

4]  4.  Fillet  of  Beef  with  Madeira^  a  receipt  by  Beauvilliers, 
•—Take  a  nice  fat  ^Uet  of  beef :  cut  away  all  fibres,  skins, 
&c.,  and  lard  it  equally  all  over.  Line  a  stew-pan  with 
sliced  carrots,  onions,  and  a  bimch  of  herbs.  Strew  four 
ounces  of  rasped  lard  over  them,  and  place  the  fillet  rolled 
.up  on  this.  Pour  a  half  bottle  of  Madeira  over  it,  as 
much  good  stock,  and  a  little  salt.  Cover  with  three 
rounds  of  buttered  paper,  and  let  there  be  a  very  slow  fire 
under,  with  embers  over  the  lid.  When  nearly  dressed, 
strain  the  gravy ;  and  what  will  not  go  through  a  fine 
sieve  return  to  nourish  the  fillet,  and  keep  it  moist. 
Reduce  the  strained  gravy,  adding  to  it  a  large  spoonful  of 
JSspagnole  (see  French  Cookery)  till  it  comes  to  the 
consistence  oi  glaze*  Drain  and  glaze  the  fillet.  Season 
the  gravy  that  remains,  —  put  a  bit  of  butter  to  it,  and 
pour  it  round  the  dished  meat. 

415.  To  press  Beef — Take  the  bones  from  the  brisket 
or  flank,  or  thin  paH  of  the  ribs.     Salt  and  season  it 


OP  DRBS8ED  B£EF.  817 

well  with  sugar  and  mixed  spices,  and  let  it  lie  a  week  ; 
then  boil  till  tender,  and  press  the  meat  under  a  heavy 
weight  till  cold,  when  it  will  either  cut  in  slices  or  do  for 
sandwiches. — See  No.  392. 

416.  A  Porkers  and  a  Calfs  Head  may  be  pressed 
or  collared,  A  porker's  head  must  be  previously  salted  ; 
for  a  cairs  head  the  same  seasonings  are  used  as  when 
the  head  is  hashed. — See  No.  892. 

417*   MADE-DISHBS  OF  BBSF  THAT  HAS  BEBN  DRESSED. 

Few  persons,  come  to  the  years  of  eating  discretion,  like 
cold,  unsalted  meat ;  and  though  the  days  are  quite  gone  by 
when  the  hospitality  of  the  landlord  was  measured  by 
the  size  of  the  joint,  it  still  happens  that  where  a  table 
affords  any  variety  of  dishes,  a  good  deal  of  meat  will  be 
left  cold.  The  invention  of  the  culinary  artist  is  thus 
put  on  the  rack  for  new  forms  and  modes  of  dressing,  and 
new  names  for  various  dishes  which  are  intrinsically  the 
same.  The  most  common  and  the  best  methods  of  dressing 
cold  beef,  are  broiling,  heating  in  the  Dutch  oven,  or 
hashing.  It  is  served  with  sippets,  and  in  many  other 
ways. 

.  418.  To  dress  the  Inside  of  a  cold  Sirloin. — Cut  tlie 
meat  in  long  and  rather  narrow  slices  of  an  inch  thick, 
leaving  a  little  of  the  firm  fat  upon  each.  Trim  and 
season  these  with  salt  and  mixed  spices,  dredge  them  with 
flour,  and  heat  them,  without  any  thing  like  violent 
frying,  in  the  gravy  saved  from  the  cold  joint,  seasoned 
with  an  anchovy,  if  you  like,  an  eschalot  minced,  or  a 
shred  onion,  and  a  little  vinegar.  Garnish  with  scraped 
horseradish  or  fried  parsley. 

N.B.  The  slices  may  also  be  broiled  and  served  in  the 
hot  sauce. 

419.  To  fricassee  cold  Beef  —  Cut  away  all  skins, 
gristles,  and  fat.  Cut  the  meat  into  thin  small  slices. 
Have  ready  a  sauce  made  of  broth,  thickened  with  roux 
or  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  seasoned  with  shred  parsley 
and  young  onions,  pepper,  and  salt.  Strain  the  sauce 
when  it  is  well  flavoured,  and  just  heat  the  meat  in  it  by 
the  side  of  the  iire,  then  add  a  glass  of  red  wine,  the  yolk 
of  An  egg  well  beat,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.     Stir  the- 


dl8  CHAP.  I. — ^MADE-DISHES 

fricassee  for  a  few  minatoSy  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or,  like 
all  re'warmed  things,  it  will  harden. 

420.  Olives  of  dressed  Beef.  —  Cut  the  meat  as  for 
fresh  beef-olives.  Season  the  slices,  and  spread  thinly 
over  them  a  forcemeat  of  bread-crumbs,  seasonings,  and 
a  little  finely  shred  suet  or  marrow.  Roll  them  up,  and 
stew  them  in  a  relishing  gravy  saved  from  the  joint,  or 
drawn  from  the  beef-bones,  and  thickened  with  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  seasoned  with  an  anchovy  or  a  little 
catsup.  This  makes  a  nice  family-dish  when  the  bits  of 
cold  meat,  either  in  small  slices  or  minced,  are  seasoned, 
and  rolled  up  in  a  paste  of  mashed  potatoes  and  flour, 
and  having  been  closed  at  the  ends  and  edges  are  fried  in 
dripping,  and  browned  before  the  flre. — See  Olives  au 
Roiy  page  313. 

421.  To  hash  cold  Beef, — Cut  down  the  meat  either  into 
large  slices,  or  mouthfuls,  trimming  away  all  burnt  out- 
side, fat,  gristle,  skin,  &c.  Set  aside  the  meat  thus  prepared 
with  what  gravy  you  have  saved,  and  draw  a  pint  of  broth 
from  the  bones  well  broken,  the  lean  pieces  of  meat  that 
are  not  used,  and  the  hard,  or  overdone.  Season  this  broth 
highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  allspice,  two  onions,  and  a 
fagot  of  parsley.  Thicken  it  with  roux  or  flour  rubbed 
down  as  for  batter-pudding.  Skim  all  the  fat  from  it ; 
let  it  settle,  and  strain  it,  and  heat  it  up  again  ;  putting 
to  it,  as  additional  seasonings  at  discretion,  any  one  of  the 
following  things  : — Walnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  or  onion- 
pickle  liquor,  with  a  few  cut  pickles  ;  a  little  tarragon- 
vinegar,  or  some  shred  parsley,  made-mustard,  capers,  &c. 
&c. ;  in  brief,  any  flavouring  ingredient  which  is  agree- 
able to  the  taste  of  the  eater,  and  easily  procured.  When 
this  sauce  is  hot,  put  the  cut  meat  and  gravy  to  it,  and 
let  it  soak  and  slowly  warm  quite  through,  without  boiling  : 
Or  the  sauce  may  be  poured  over  the  meat  in  the  hash- 
dish,  and  that  set  in  a  hot- water  bath,  a  cool  oven,  or  a 
vessel  of  boiling  water,  till  the  hash  is  hot  through.  Place 
toasted  sippets  round  the  dish.  A  currie-h€tsh  of  beef  is 
generally  liked.  Fry  a  few  large  onions ;  add  the  hashed 
meat  and  currie  seasonings.  Garlic  may  be  used  if  liked. 
— Obs,  The  varieties  of  Hashes  are  endless  ;  but  the  above 


OF  DRESSED  BEEF.  319 

is  conceived  the  best  mode  of  making  this  useful  family- 
dish,  whether  the  hash  be  of  beef  or  mutton.  Hashes  or 
minces  of  dressed  veal  or  poultry  require  white  sauce,  a 
seasoning  of  lemon-peel,  and  the  juice  of  lemon  ;  or  the 
flavour  of  tarragon  g^ven  by  vinegar,  which  makes  a 
French  flavoured  hash.  A  currie-hash  of  veal  or  fowls 
answers  very  well  with  plenty  of  small  onions  par-roasted, 
and  then  stewed  whole  in  the  hash-sauce.  If  meat  comes 
back  from  the  table  which  you  know  must  be  hashed  next 
day,  carve  it  before  it  get  cool ;  it  will  then  soak  in  all 
the  gravy  which  lies  in  the  dish,  and  be  far  more  rich  than 
if  allowed  to  remain  dry  and  uncut  till  next  day.  This 
should  be  particularly  attended  to  in  hashes  of  venison, 
hare,  or  mutton. 

422.  An  English  Stew  of  cold  roast  heefy  muttony  or  lamb. 
-—Cut  the  meat  in  small  and  rather  thin  slices,  season  them 
rather  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dip  each  lightly 
in  bread-crumbs,  moistened  in  gravy  or  melted  butter. 
Dress  them  nealJy  on  a  dish,  and  lay  over  them  a  thin 
layer  of  cut  pickles,  and  moisten  the  whole  with  a  glassful 
of  pickle-vinegar,  and  the  preserved  gravy  of  the  roast 
meat :  Heat  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and  garnish  with  fried 
sippets,  or  potato  balls.  Place  the  dish  dressed  in  another 
with  a  napkin.  This  we  consider  the  best  method  of  re- 
dressing cold  roast  meat.  . 

423.  Cold  Beef  Scallopedy  or  Saunders.  —  Mince  the 
meat  as  in  the  next  receipt :  add  the  same  seasonings  and 
a  little  scraped  tongue  or  ham,  moisten  it  with  gravy  and 
walnut-pickle,  and  fill  up  the  scallop-shapes,  laying  mashed 
potatoes  thinly,  and  neatly  marked,  or  crumbs  over  the 
mince.  Put  some  bits  of  butter  over  each  shape,  and  set 
them  to  warm  and  brown  in  an  oven. — See  Scottish  Minced 
CollopSy  also  Beef  Patties  and  Podovies, 

43A.  To  mince  Dressed  Beef  and  Beef  Cecils, — Mince 
the  beef  finely  with  a  very  little  suet,  and  warm  it  up  in 
a  small  stew-pan,  with  a  little  broth  or  water,  minced 
parsley,  eschalot  or  onion,  and  a  little  vinegar,  and  what 
meat-gravy  you  have  saved,  which  is  the  best  ingredient 
that  can  enter  into  the  composition  of  any  hash  or  mince. 
Dish  the  mince  with  toasted  sippets,  or  poached  eggs.     Beef 


320  CHAP.  I. — ^MADC-DISHEfl 

Cecils, — Mince  the  whitest  part  of  dressed  meat  very 
nicely,  find  mix  it  up  with  bread-crumbs,  minced  onions, 
a  chopped  anchovy,  and  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
onion  or  walnut-pickle.  Stir  this  mince  over  the  fire  in 
a  small  stew-pan,  with  a  little  melted  butter ;  and,  when 
cold  enough  to  handle,  make  it  up  into  large  oval  balls 
with  flour  ;  ^g^  the  balls  and  roll  them  in  crumbs  ;  brown 
them  befoi'e  the  fire,  and  pour  hot  gravy,  seasoned  with 
eschalot  and  pepper,  over  them. 

425.  A  Parisian  Mode  of  dressing  cold  Beef.  —  Cut 
the  part  most  underdone  in  slices,  and  stew  them  over 
embers  in  a  sauce  of  weak  broth,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  a 
small  spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  an  onion,  two  bay- 
leaves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and 
cloves.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  the  strained  gravy, 
to  which,  however,  more  vinegar  must  be  put  if  the  beef 
is  served  cold.     The  wine  may  be  omitted. 

426.  To  broil  cold  Beef — ^Cut  the  slices  as  steaks,  broil 
them  over  a  very  clear  fire,  or  better  in  a  Dutch  oven, 
and  serve  them  with  fried  eggs,  or  scalloped  potatoes,  and 
steak  sauce,  grill-sauce,  or  any  piquant  sauce  made  hot. 

427*  Another  way, — Divide  the  dressed  ribs  and  shorten 
them  :  leave  the  meat  on  the  upper  side  about  the  breadth 
of  an  inch.  Sprinkle  the  steaks  with  salt  and  mixed 
spices,  and  place  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  basting  them  with 
the  left  gravy  of  the  roast,  bread-crumbs,  and  chopped 
parsley.     Serve  them  with  grill-sauce, 

428.  Bubble  and  Squeak,  —  This  dish  is  made  either  of 
cold  roast  or  boiled  beef ;  and  is  best  of  salt  meat.  Cut  the 
slices  not  too  thick,  nor  very  large  ;  fry  them  in  butter 
with  plenty  of  pepper,  and  keep  them  warm  before  the 
fire.  Meanwhile  chop  and  fry,  or  braise  some  boiled  cab- 
bage, and  lay  this  on  the  slices  of  beef ;  or  heap  the 
cabbage  high  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  lay  the  meat 
round  it.  For  sauce,  chop  and  stir  a  few  slices  of  pickled 
cucumber  and  onion  into  a  little  thick  melted  butter,  and 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard.  Fried  beetroot,  eggs, 
and  even  apples  are  used.  A  ragout  added  of  any  left 
oysters,  mushrooms,  or  onions,  makes  this  scrap-dish 
superb. 


OF  VEAL.  S21 

429.  BiMle  and  Squeal  of  Veal, — Make  this  as  of  beef, 
but  use  no  mustard. — Ohs.  This  dish  deserves  to  be  better 
known.     Spinage  may  be  substituted  for  cabbage. 

430.  Ini^  Pinky. — Slice  boiled  carrots  ;  slice  also  cold 
roast  beef,  trimming  away  outside  and  skins.  Put  an 
onion  to  a  good  gravy  (drawn  from  the  roast  beef-bones, 
if  you  Uke,)  and  let  the  carrots  and  beef  slowly  simmer  in 
this  ;  add  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  taste.  Thicken  the 
gravy, — take  out  the  onion,  and  serve  hot,  with  sippets,  as 
any  other  hash. 

431.  To  pot  Beef^  Veal^  or  Game, — Salt  apiece  of  lean 
fleshy  beef  for  two  days.  Drain  it,  season  it  well,  and 
afterwards  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven,  or  stew  it  in  an  earthen- 
ware jar,  placed  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water.  When 
tender,  drain  off  all  the  gravy,  and  set  the  meat  before  the 
fire,  that  all  the  moisture  may  be  drawn  out.  Pull  it  to 
pieces,  and  beat  it  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar,  with  mixed 
spices  and  oiled  fresh  butter,  till  it  becomes  of  the  consis- 
tence of  mellow  Stilton  cheese. — Ohs.  This  is  mostly  made 
of  beef  dressed  for  other  purposes,  such  as  beef  from  which 
gravy  is  drawn,  or  the  remains  of  any  joint  that  cannot 
be  otherwise  used.  It  may  be  flavoured  with  anchovy, 
mushroom-powder,  minced  eschalot,  chervil  or  tarragon, 
dried  and  pulverized,  if  the  potted  meat  is  not  to  be  long 
kept.  The  longer  it  is  beat  in  the  mortar  the  better  it  will 
eat  and  keep.  Put  it  into  small  potting-cans,  and  cover 
with  plenty  of  clarified  butter,  which  butter  will  after- 
wards be  useful  for  frying  meat,  pie-crust,  &c. — Game  to 
be  sent  to  distant  places  may  be  potted  as  above  without 
cutting  up  the  birds,  and  will  keep  for  at  least  a  month. 
The  birds  should  not  be  over  done,  and  their  gravy  should 
be  preserved  along  with  them. 


432.   MADE-DISHES  OP  VEAL, 

Veal  is  generally  accompanied  by  acid  sauces,  as  sorrel, 
or  lemon.  It  is  often  the  better  of  a  relishing  forcemeat ; 
and  unless  very  fat,  young,  tender,  and  white,  cooks  the 
better  for  a  slice  of  good  bacon. 

433.  To  stew  a  Fillet  of  Veal,  —  The  more  slowly  all 


meat,  bat  espwiellj  veal,  is  stewed,  the  better.  Allow  at 
le&et  a  balf-hour  to  tlie  pound.  Take  off  the  knuckle 
either  to  stew,  or  for  soup  or  gravy,  and  also  the  square 
end,  which  will  cut  up  into  cutlets,  or  olives,  oi  make  a 
pie.  Stuff  the  middle  part  of  the  fillet  with  a  forcemeat, 
as  directed  at  No,  8,  and,  rolling  it  up  tjghtly,  Bkewer  it 
neatly,  and  simmer  it  very  slowly  in  a  close  nice  stew-pan 
that  will  just  contain  it.  Lay  skewers  below  to  prevent 
tlie  meat  from  sticking.  When  quite  tender  take  it  up, 
and  strain  and  thicken  the  sauce.  Serve  with  mushrooms 
parboiled,  and  then  stewed  in  the  eauce,  and  season  with 
white  pepper  and  mace  ;  —  or  the  sauce  may  he  enriched 
with  a  few  pickled  oysters  and  forcemeat  halls ;  season  with 
a  glass  of  white  nine  and  the  juice  of  a  lemou,  and  garnish 
with  lemon  sliced.  See  No.  23.  —  Obt,  The  fillet  may  be 
half-baked,  and  finished  by  stewing.  For  dividing  the 
fillet,  see  French  Cooker]/. 

434.  To  »tew  a  Breait  of  Veal,  a  eomtum  remove  of  Fi*h, 
or  a  Second-course  top-ditk. — Choose  thick,  fat,  white  veal. 
Chop  off  the  neck  and  the  bone,  and  stew  them  for  gravy. 
Stuff  the  thin  part  of  the  breast  with  a  relishing  force- 
meat, made  of  a  sweetbread  parboiled  and  minced,  bread- 
crumbs,  lemon-grate,  nutmeg,   pepper,  salt,    shred    suet 
or  veal-kidney  fat,  and  yolk  of  egg  to  bind  the  forcemeat. 
Skewer  the   stuffing  neatly  in,  or  sew  it  in,  and  stew 
the  meat  for  two  hours  in  the  gravy  made  of  the  neck, 
first  e^ing  and  browning  it  if  you  choose.      Thicken  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  the  sauce,  and  put  to  it  a  half-hundred 
oysters  cut,  a  few  mushrooms  chopped,  lemon-juice,  white' 
pepper,  and  mace.      Pour  this  over  the  stew,  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  forcemeat  balls.     Cream,  wine, 
"  s,  &c.  are  all  put  to  this  dish,  also  catsup  and  an 
fy.     The  oysters  we  omit.      A  shoulder  is  boned, 
1,  and  Btewed  as  above  in  good  giavy. 
.  To  ragout  a  Breatt  of  Veal. — Make  a  little  stfong 
as  above,  of  the  scrag  and  honea  of  the  breast,  and 
his — or  a  quantity  of  rich  stock  sufficient  to  stew  the 
and  sweet  herbs,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  white  pepper,  a 
af,  a  latge  carrot  sliced,  three  onions,  and  a  fagot 
et  herbs  and  parsley,  stew  tiU  the  point  of  a  knife 


OF  VEAL,  S23 

will  easily  enter  the  meat.  This,  like  all  stews,  cannot  be 
too  slowly  simmered,  over  embers  or  by  the  fire,  keeping 
I  the  lid  of  the  stew-pan  very  close.  When  the  veal  is  quite 
tender,  skim  off  all  the  fat  that  floats  on  the  sauce,  which 
must  then  be  strained  and  thickened  to  the  degree  of  thin 
'»  batter,  and  enriched  with  a  glassful  of  white  wine  and  the 

juice  of  a  lemon.  Heat  up  the  sauce,  or  dish  the  veal  and 
pour  the  sauce  hot  over  it,  holding  back  the  sediment. 
Forcemeat-balls  may  be  used  as  a  garnishing  to  this  dish, 
(they  will  be  more  suitable  if  made  with  a  large  propor- 
tion of  grated  tongue,  sausage-meat,  ham,  &c.)  also  slices 
of  lemon.  —  Obs.  Veal,  whether  the  neck  or  breast,  is  ex- 
ceedingly good  stewed  plainly  in  a  little  strong  gravy. 
The  meat  may  also  be  glasied^  or  it  may  be  covered  with 
white  onion-sauce ;  or  cut  and  stewed  with  young  green 
peas,  chopped  lettuce,  and  young  onions  chopped,  and 
served  en  puit,  that  is,  in  a  well  or  space  in  the  middle 
of  the  dish,  of  which  the  cut  meat  foiins  the  walls.  Celery 
also  answers  very  well  with  stewed  veal. — ^See  Tcndrons 
de  VeaUf  No.  629. 

N.B.  — Lamb  or  Babbits  may  be  dressed  as  above,  and 
served,  the  former  with  cucumbers,  the  latter  with  white 
onion-sauce. 

436.  Veal  Olives, — Make  as  Beef  Olives^  p.  813;  or  cut, 
flatten,  and  spread  forcemeat  on  each  slice,  with  seasonings. 
Roll  up  each  olive  tightly,  and  e^g  and  crumb  them,  and 
either  roast  or  stew  them  in  a  i*ich  gravy.  Thicken  the 
gravy,  add  to  it  a  few  forcemeat-baDs,  and  serve  with 
oyster  or  mushroom  sauce. 

437.  Veal  Cutlets.  — See  pages  139,  326,  and  French 
Cookery. 

438.  Scotch  Collops* — Cut  small  slices  of  equal  thick- 
ness out  of  the  fillet,  and  flour  and  brown  them  over  a 
brisk  fire  in  fresh  butter.  When  enough  are  browned, 
put  a  little  weak  veal-broth  or  boiling  water  to  them  in  a 
small,  close  stew-pan,  adding,  when  they  are  nearly  ready, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  or  the  same  of 
lemon-  pickle,  with  mace,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  taste.   Thicken 

*  This  properly  means  scotcJiedf  or  scored  collops,  tiiough  the  word 
w  has  come  to  be  understood  as  above. 


4% 


24  CHAP.  I. — MADE-DISHES. 


with  roux^  and  Btrain  the  sauce,  and  pour  it  over  the  col- 
lops.  They  may  be  egged  and  dipped  in  crumbs.  Some 
cooks  lay  tlie  slices  in  a  marinade  of  vinegar  and  spices 
for  some  hours  before  frying,  but  it  is  bad  practice.  Serve 
with  this  favourite  dish  curled  slices  of  toasted  bacon,  or 
mushrooms  if  in  season. 

4d9.  A  Fricandeau  of  Vm>L — Trim  the  fat  fleshy  side 
of  a  large  knuckle  of  white  veal ;  or,  if  expense  is  no 
object,  take  a  long  thick  piece  from  the  fillet ;  skin  it, 
beat  it  flat,  cut  it  smooth  at  one  stroke,  season,  and  lard 
it,  or  stuff  with  veal  stuffing  in  which  is  put  a  large  pro- 
portion of  ham  forcemeat.  Lay  some  slices  of  bacon  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  place  the  veal  on  them  with  more  slices  of 
bacon  above  it.  Put  in  a  pint  or  more  of  stock,  the 
knuckle-bone  broken,  or  a  calf  s  foot  chopped,  a  fagot  of 
herbs,  a  turnip,  a  carrot,  and  four  onions  sliced  ;  mace,  two 
bay- leaves,  some  white  pepper  and  more  slices  of  fat  bacon 
over  all.  Let  this  stew  for  more  than  two  hours  over  a 
very  slow  fire,  and  keep  the  stew-pan  closely  covered, 
(properly  there  ought  to  be  fire  over  it,)  unless  when 
basting  the  upper  side  of  the  fricandeau  with  the  liquor. 
The  gravy  will  be  very  rich.  Take  up  ih^  fricandeau  and 
keep  it  hot ;  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy ;  pour  it  from 
the  sediment,  and  boil  it  quickly  down  till  it  thickens,  or 
becomes  a  glase^  with  which  glaze  the  meat.  Serve  with 
sorrel  or  tomata-sauce.  —  Ohs*  The  lean  part  of  a  large 
neck  may  be  frugally  dressed  as  a  fricandeau,  drawing  a 
glaze  from  the  bones.  Trufiies  and  morells,  artichoke 
bottoms,  and  mushrooms,  are  all  served  with  this  dish. 
Fricandeau  is  a  French  dish  naturalized,  though  it  does 
not  always  succeed  in  this  country.  The  French  often 
serve  it  over  dressed  spinage,  sorrel  or  endive  :  see  Nos. 
706,  212.  Like  many  other  dishes,  it  is  much  improved 
by  having  fire  put  over  the  stew-pan,  especially  towards 
the  conclusion  of  the  process.  Fricandeau  should  be  so 
well  done  as  to  carve  with  a  spoon ;  but  for  English 
palates  meat  quite  in  tatters  does  not  always  suit.  Four 
or  five  small  pieces  of  veal  may  be  served  9&  fricandeaux, 
and  this  is  often  done.  This  and  all  things  will  glaze 
better,  if  first  dried  before  the  fii'e  or  in  a  slow  oven. 


OF  TBAL,  825 

440.  To  ragout  a  Knuckle  of  Veal — {an  economical 
DUh,)  —  Cut  off  the  meat  the  cross  way  of  the  grain  in 
slices  rather  thinner  and  smaller  than  for  cutlets.  Draw 
slowly  nearly  a  quart  of  hroth  from  the  broken  bone,  the 
skins,  gristles,  and  trimmings,  with  a  head  of  celery,  an 
onion,  a  carrot  and  turnip,  a  small  fagot  of  parsley,  and 
a  sprig  of  lemon  thyme  and  basil.  Season  the  slices  with 
salt  and  cooks'  pepper  ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  them 
in  a  small  stew-pan  ;  and,  pouring  the  strained  broth  over 
them,  stew  the  whole  very  slowly  over  embers,  or  at  a 
considerable  distance  from  the  fire,  for  a  full  hour. 
Thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  rolled  in  butter,  or  white 
rouXy  and,  just  before  serving,  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon, 
and  pounded  mace.  —  To  Stew  a  Knuckle  with  Rice,  see 
page  172. 

441.  To  braise  a  Neck  or  other  Piece  of  Veal.  —  Cut  the 
scrag  in  bits,  but  keep  whole,  and  lard  the  best  end  of  it 
with  chopped  bacon,  minced  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and 
mace.  Lay  the  larded  meat  in  a  shallow  stew-pan,  with 
hot  water  to  cover  it,  and  put  around  it  the  cut  scrag, 
some  slices  of  bacon,  four  onions,  a  turnip,  a  head  of  celery, 
two  carrots,  and  three  bay-leaves.  Stew  till  tender,  strain 
ofi^  the  gravy,  and,  melting  some  butter  in  another  stew- 
pan,  take  the  neck  gently  up,  and  lay  it  there  to  brown. 
When  browned,  put  as  much  of  the  strained  gravy  to  it 
as  will  do  for  sauce,  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the  juice 
of  a  Seville  orange,  white  pepper  and  mace.  Dish  with 
the  browned  side  uppermost  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. — 
Obs.  This  is  a  handsome  but  a  rather  expensive  dish,  with 
little  to  recommend  it  over  plain  savoury  stews  of  veal 
save  the  name  and  the  lardingy  —  a  resource  of  cookery, 
by  the  way,  which  does  not  seem  peculiarly  suited  to 
English  palates,  and  which  is  every  day  less  employed  in 
the  Anglo-Gallican  kitchen.  Any  piece  of  meat,  poultry, 
or  game,  may  be  braised  as  above  ;  or,  as  another  variety, 
atu£fed  with  forcemeat  instead  of  being  larded.  Braising 
is,  in  fact,  just  slow  stew-baking  in  fat,  rich,  compound 
juices,  with  high  seasonings. 

442.  A  Chranada  {properly  Gbenadin)  of  Veal, — a 
naturalized  French  Dish, — Line  a  small  oval  dish  with  a 


d2d  CHAP,  li — ^MAOe-DISHES  I 

veal  caul,  leaving  part  hanging  over  the  ledges  of  the  dish. 

Tn  this  place  slices  of  good  bacon,  then  a  layer  of  veal 

forcemeat,  Nos.  8,  693,  next  veal-collops  well  seasoned, 

and  so  on  alternately  till  the  dish  is  filled.     Tuck  the 

caul  over  the  whole,  tie  paper  over  the  dish,  and  bake  the  i 

Granada.     Turn  it  out  of  the  dish,  and  serve  with  clear 

brown-gravy. — Ohs.  Mushrooms,  herbs,  &c.  may  be  added 

at  discretion  to  this  savoury  dish.     See  No.  629. 

443.  To  dress  Veal  a  la  dauhe, — Trim  off  the  edge-bone 
of  a  good  loin  of  veal,  and  cut  off  the  chump.*  Raise  the 
skin,  season  the  meat,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  the  forcemeat 
of  No.  8  •  bind  up  the  loin  with  fillets  of  linen,  and 
cover  it  with  slices  of  bacon  ;  place  the  loin  in  a  stew-pan, 
with  the  bones  and  trimmings,  and  veal-stock,  if  yoli 
have  it,  a  chopped  calfs  foot,  or  jelly  of  cow-heels.  Put 
m  a  fagot  of  herbs,  mace,  white  pepper,  and  two  anchovies. 
Cover  the  lid  of  the  pan  with  a  cloth,  and  force  it  down 
very  close,  placing  a  weight  over  it.  Simmer  slowly  for 
two  hours,  shaking  the  stew-pan  occasionally.  By  this 
time  the  gravy  will  be  reduced  to  a  strong  glaze.  Take 
out  the  bacon  and  herbs,  and  glaze  the  veal.  Serve  with 
sorrel  or  tomata-sauce  ;  or  with  mushrooms,  which  are 
always  a  very  suitable  accompaniment  to  made-dishes  of 
veal  or  poultry. 

444.  An  English  Haricot  of  Veal. — Shorten  the  bones  of 
the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  back-ribs.  Either  leave  the 
meat  whole  or  cut  it  into  chops.  Brown  it  of  a  fine  colour. 
Stew  it  in  good  brown  gravy ;  and  when  nearly  ready, 
add  a  pint  of  green  peas,  A  large  cucumber,  pared  and 
sliced,  and  a  well-blanched  lettuce  quartered,  with  pepper, 
salt,  a  point  of  cayenne,  and  a  quart,  or  what  will  cover 
the  stew,  of  boiling  stock.  Dish  the  veal  in  the  middle 
of  the  soup-dish,  pour  the  stew-sauce  over  it,  and  garnish 
with  the  lettuce  and,  if  you  like,  a  few  forcemeat-balls. 

445.  Maintenon  Cutlets. — Cut,  flatten,  and  shape  small 
round  cutlets,  season  them  with  mixed  spices,  dip  them  iA 

*  The  chump  or  tail-end  makes  a  good  family-dish,  stewed  in  stoek, 
with  roots,  spices,  herbs,  and  a  slice  of  bacon.  Serve  with  its  own 
thickened  gra\7,  and  the  roots  that  are  stewed  with  it,  but  take  OHt  tho 
bacon*  *"] 


OF  fjEAL*  32? 

beat  eggy  and  then  in  bread-crumbs  and  pulverized  sweet- 
herbs,  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Broil  them  over  a 
quick  clear  fire,  turning  them  quickly,  and  moistening 
them  with  melted  butter.  Twist  each  cutlet  neatly  up 
in  thin  writing  paper  made  hot,  and  serve  them  accom- 
panied by  mushroom-sauce,  or  catsup,  stirred  into  plain 
melted  butter.  These  cutlets  may  be  dressed  by  stewing 
them  for  a  few  minutes  with  chopped  parsley,  butter,  and 
rasped  bacon,  and  finishing  en  papillote, — Ohs,  Common 
books  of  cookery  recommend  dressing  veal-cutlets,  salmon- 
cutlets,  &c.,  in  paper, — a  plan  which  is  extremely  difficult 
even  in  the  hands  of  a  French  artist,  and  which  requires 
several  folds  of  buttered  or  oiled  paper  put  on  at  first,  and 
supplied  by  fresh  buttered  paper  when  the  cutlet  is  nearly 
dressed.  The  original  paper  will  look  greasy  and  be- 
smeared whatever  care  the  cook  may  take,  and  fresh 
paper  spoils  the  meat.* —  See  Outlets,  p.  139. 

446.  Various  ways  of  dressing  VeaL — Prepare  as  above, 
and  dress  cutlets  in  a  Dutch  oven,  pouring  melted  butter 
and  mushrooms  over  them.  Fresh  Veal  minced^  with 
the  grate  of  a  lemon  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  shred 
mutton-suet,  makes  a  very  good  small-dish  or  supper- 
dish,  and  warms  up  well,  or  does  for  patties  or  scallops. 
Veal-rolls^  for  a  corner-dish  or  supper-dish,  may  be  made 

of  long  thin  slices  of  veal  flattened,  seasoned,  and  rolled 
round  a  forcemeat  of  bacon  or  grated  ham,  suet,  eschalot, 
parsley,  and  spices.  Tie  the  rolls  tight,  and  stew  them 
slowly  in  gravy,  adding  white  wine  and  the  squeeze  of  a 
lemon«  Serve  in  a  ragout-dish.  Stewed  mushrooms 
are  a  suitable  accompaniment  to  this  dish,  which  is  just 
another  name  for  veal  olives.  Veal  makes  excellent 
currie  or  pillau,  which  see. 

447.  To  dress  a  Calfs  Pluck.  —  Clean  and  stuff  the 
heart  with  the  forcemeat  of  No.  8.  Spread  a  veal  caul, 
or  slices  of  fat  bacon  over  it,  and  bake  it.  Boil,  for  an 
hour,  the  half  of  the  liver  and  lights,  and  mince  them 
rather  finer  than  for  a  hash.  Simmer  this  mince  for  a 
half-hour  in  a  little  gravy,  seasoning  it  with  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  catsup,  white  pepper,  chopped  parsley,  and  salt. 

♦  Nothing  should  he  dressed  en  papillote,  in  an  English  kitchen 
save  a  pig^s  ears  «nd  tall.    It  is  never  -^ell  done. — P.  T: 


328  CHAP.  I. MADE- DISHES 

Dish  the  mince,  and  place  the  fried  heart  above  it,  and  lay 
slices  of  the  remainder  of  the  liver  fried,  round  it,  witii 
fried  parsley,  or  sippets  ;  or  the  heart,  if  large  and  fat,  will 
of  itself  make  a  handsome  dish  if  stuffed  with  a  rich  force* 
meat,  roasted  with  caul  or  paper  over  it,  and  served  with 
venison-sauce  or  melted  butter  and  catsup  poured  about  it. 
The  liver  may  be  stuffed  and  roasted  as  above  ;  but  this 
we  conceive  one  of  the  absurdities  of  cookery.  The  minced 
li^fhts  are  made  into  balls,  or  used  for  forcemeat  to  calf's 
head,  &c.  They  should  have  a  good  deal  of  kidney  or 
other  fat,  or  of  udder,  and  the  usual  veal  seasonings  of 
mace  and  lemon-peel.     See  No.  585.    . 

448.  To  dress  Veat Sweetbreads, — Parboil  them  slightly. 
Divide  and  stew  them  in  white  gravy ;  thicken,  and  sea- 
son this  with  salt,  mace,  white  pepper,  and,  when  just 
ready,  a  little  hot  cream ;  or,  e^%  the  parboiled  sweet- 
breads, dip  them  in  crumbs,  chopped  herbs,  and  seasonings, 
and  finish  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter  and  catsup. 

449.  To  ragout  Sweetbreads, — Cut  them  in  mouthfuls, 
wash  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  brown  them  in  fresh  butter, 
and,  pouring  as  much  brown  rich  gravy  as  will  just  cover 
them  into  the  stew-pan,  let  them  sunmer  gently,  adding 
a  seasoning  of  pepper,  allspice,  salt,  and  mushroom-catsup. 
Thicken  the  sauce,  and,  dishing  the  sweetbreads  very  hot, 
pour  the  sauce  over  them  through  a  sieve.  —  See  French 
Cookery^  No.  634. 

450.  To  dress  Calves'  Tails,—  Clean,  blanch,  cut  them 
at  the  joints,  and  brown  them  in  butter  or  soft  kidney-fat. 
Drain,  and  stew  them  in  good  stock  seasoned  with  parsley, 
onions,  and  a  bay-leaf.  Add  green  peas  to  the  stew,  if 
in  season,  or  some  small  mushrooms.  Skim  and  serve  the 
ragout.  Foreigners  use  garlic  in  this  dish,  and  dredge  it 
with  grated  Parmesan. 

451.  Calfs  Heart*  —  Cut  down  in  slices  and  dress  as  a 
plain  stew,  and  season  with  lemon-grate;  or  stuff  and  roast, 
rolling  in  forcemeat  as  at  No.  447. 

452.  Calfs  Lwer, — Cut  a  fat  white  liver  into  thin  slices. 
Dust  flour  over  these.  Fry  them  for  five  minutes.  Strew 
minced  parsley  and  young  onions,  salt,  and  pepper,  over 
the  fry.     Moisten  it  with  good  stock,  and  give  it  a  toss 


OF  T£AL.  329 

for  five  minutes  more ;  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will 
harden.     Before  serving,  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon. 

Calf^s  Liver  may  be  dressed  more  richly  by  stewing  it 
with  bacon,  herbs,  spices,  &c.,  and  putting  white  wine  to 
the  thickened  sauce. — See  No.  635. 

453.  Veal-Kidney  may  be  minced  and  fried  as  sausage, 
or  rolled  up  in  oval  balls,  mixing  the  fat  and  lean  together, 
with  a  little  bacon,  onion,  pepper,  salt,  &c.  Dressed  thus, 
it  forms  a  relishing  accompaniment  to  plain  stews  of  veal; 
but  it  is  a  violation  of  the  principles  of  good  cookery  to 
separate  it  from  the  roast  loin. 

454.  To  jug  VeaL  —  Cut,  flatten,  and  season  slices  of 
veal,  and  put  them  into  an  earthen  or  stone  jar,  with  a 
few  sprigs  of  sweet  herbs,  a  roll  of  lemon-peel^  and  some 
bits  of  fresh  butter.  Cover  the  jar  very  closely,  and  set  it 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  or  in  a  slow  oven,  for  from  two 
to  three  hours.  Take  off  the  covering,  and  stir  a  little 
thickening  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  the  sauce,  and, 
allowing  a  few  minutes  for  this  to  blend,  dish  the  veal  in 
a  ragout-dish,  picking  out  the  herbs  and  lemon-peel.  Gar- 
nish with  slices  of  lemon.  For  choice  small  dishes  of  veal, 
see  from  No.  627  to  643,  French  Cookety, 

455.  Vedt-Cake. — ^This  is  rather  a  pretty  fantastical  dish 
to  ornament  a  table,  than  one  about  which  either  the  epi- 
cure or  economist  cares  much.  Take  the  hard  yolks 
of  eight  or  more  eggs,  and  cut  them  in  two.  Put  some  of 
them  in  the  bottom  of  a  small  nice  tin  pan,  or  earthen- 
ware dish.  .Strew  chopped  parsley  over  them,  with 
seasonings ;  then  thin  slices  of  veal  and  ham,  or,  better, 
veal  and  ham  separately  beaten  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar. 
Place  thus  alternate  layers  of  e^^^  parsley,  and  meat- 
paste,  till  you  have  enough.  Stick  butter  over  the  top, 
and  add  a  little  water  or  gravy  ;  cover  the  saucepan  very 
close,  and  set  it  in  an  oven.  When  done,  which  will  be 
in  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  take  off  the  covering, 
and  press  the  meat  down.  When  cold  and '  firm,  turn  it 
out.  It  may  be  baked  in  an  oval  or  fluted  earthenware 
shape,  turned  out,  and  garnished  with  curled  parsley,  &c. 

456.  To  dress  a  Calfs  Head  plain. — Wash  it  and  soak 
it  in  hot  water  that  it  may  blanch.     Take  out  the  brains, 


SdO  CHAP.  I. — MADS  DISHES 

and  cut  away  the  black  part  of  the  eyes.  Boil  it  in  a 
large  fish-kettle,  putting  it  on  with  plenty  of  cold  water, 
and  some  salt  to  throw  up  the  scum.  •  Simmer  it  gently 
for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Take  up  the  head,  cut  out  the 
tongue ;  score  the  head  (but  not  deeply)  in  diamonds ; 
brush  it  over  with  beat  egg,  and  sprinkle  it  with  bread- 
crumbs, chopped  parsley,  and  seasonings.  Stick  a  few 
bits  of  butter  over  it,  and  brown  the  head  in  a  Dutch 
oven.  Meanwhile,  wash,  scald,  parboil,  and  skin  the 
brains,  and  chop  them  up  with  parsley  and  sage,  (first 
parboiled  and  chopped,)  white  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  this 
into  hot  melted  butter.  Add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon,  of  a 
little  lemon-pickle,  a  small  quantity  of  cayenne,  and  a 
minced  eschalot.  Skin  the  tongue,  and  serve  the  brains 
dressed  as  above  directed,  around  it,  as  a  smaller  dish  to 
accompany  the  calFs  head.  Serve  also  parsley  and  butter- 
sauce.  Curled  slices  of  toasted  bacon,  a  piece  of  ham  or 
bacon,  a  pig's  cheek,  or  sausage,  are  indispensable  with 
calf  s  head,  even  when  highly  dressed. — See  No.  92. 

457.  Calf*s  or  Lamb*8  Head  and  Ragout,  a  Scotch  Dish, — 
Having  parboiled  a  fat  head  as  above,  cut  down  the  one- 
half  of  it,  with  the  skinned  tongue,  the  palate,  &c.,  into 
dice  and  other  neatly-shaped  pieces.  Trim  and  brush  the 
Other  half  with  egg^  and  strew  crumbs,  chopped  parsley, 
&c.,  over  it,  and  set  it  to  bake  before  the  fire  or  in  the 
oven,  sticking  butter  over  it,  and  basting  it  with  more 
crumbs.  Meanwhile  stew  the  hash  in  a  little  good  real- 
broth,  jelly  of  cow-heels,  or  any  rich  fresh  stock  you 
have  :  season  this  with  mixed  spices,  the  grate  and  juice 
of  a  lemon,  mace,  or  whatever  seasoning  is  most  approved. 
Dish  the  ragout,  and  place  the  baked  cheek  upon  it. 
Garnish  with  brain-cakes  and  forcemeat-balls,  or  fried 
sippets,  or  merely  with  slices  of  the  fried  liver.— OA*. 
Pickled  oysters,  catsup,  &c.,  may  be  added  to  this  ragout, 
which  may,  at  the  discretion  of  the  cook,  be  made  either  a 
white  or  brown  ragout.  This  we  conceive  the  best  way  of 
dressing  a  calf  s  head ;  though  the  hash  or  fricassee  of  the 
second  day  must,  by  the  experienced  gourmand,  be  con- 
sidered as  preferable  to  any  other  mode  of  cookery,  and 
only  objectionable   from   not  making   so   important  au 


0^  TEAL.  ddl 

t 

addition  to  tlie  appearance  of  the  table  as  the  fnll-dressed 
head.  If  it  be  a  lamb's  head,  brown  it  all :  the  meat  of 
the  scrag  minced  (which  is  generally  cut  off  with  the  head 
in  Scotland)  will  make  a  great  addition  to  the  ragout. 
The  heads  may  be  glazed  before  being  crumbed.  —  Lambda 
Head^  see  National  Dishes. 

458.  To  fricassee  a  Calfs  Head, — Clean  and  parboil  the 
head  ;  cut  the  cheeks,  tongue,  palate,  &c.,  into  nice  bits, 
and  stew  them  in  a  rich  w^hite  gravy,  with  a  little  of  the 
broth  in  which  the  head  was  parboiled,  seasoned  with 
white  pepper,  mace,  herbs,  onion,  and  salt.  Tliicken  with 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and,  just  before  dishing  the  fricassee, 
add  a  little  hot  cream  or  beat  yolk  of  ^%^,  Simmer  this, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Garnish  with  brain-cakes  and 
forcemeat-balls,  or  curled  slices  of  toasted  bacon,  and  egg- 
balls. 

459.  To  hash  a  Calfs  Head.-^CleSLii  and  parboil  the 
head  ;  or  take  what  is  left  of  a  plainly-boiled  cold  head, 
and  cut  it  into  slices  of  a  rather  larger  size  than  for 
fricassee.  Peel  and  slice  the  tongue.  Take  upwards  of  a 
quart  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled,  with  the 
bones,  trimmings,  and  a  shank  of  veal  or  mutton,  and  boil 
these  for  the  hash- stock,  with  a  fagot  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
good  bit  of  lemon-peel,  onions,  and  white  pepper.  Boil 
this  gravy  till  it  is  good  and  well- flavoured.  Thicken  it 
with  flour  kneaded  in  butter,  and  strain  it  into  a  clean 
saucepan.  Season  with  pounded  mace,  catsup,  or  lemon- 
pickle,  or  a  little  of  any  piquant  store- sauce,  and  warm  up 
the  hash,  without  sufl^ering  it  to  boil,  though  boiling  will 
not  harm  calFs  head  so  much  as  it  does  other  cold  meat. 
Garnish  with  forcemeat  balls,  or  curled  slices  of  bacon,  or 
fried  bread,  which  forms  a  suitable  accompaniment  to  all 
hashes. — Obs.  This  hash  may  be  rendered  more  piquant  by 
anchovy,  pickled  oysters,  &c.  It  may  be  dressed  as  a 
currie-hash  by  the  addition  of  fried  onions  and  currie-^ 
powder ;  or  receive  the  flavour  of  a  French  dish,  from 
iinely-shred  parsley,  knotted  marjoram,  and  a  bit  of  tar^ 
ragon  being  added  to  the  sauce  just  before  dishing ;  or  a 
little  tarragon-vinegar.  It  may  also  be  flavoured  very 
agreeably  with  a  little  basil- wine.    A  brown  hash  may  be 


QQ2  CHAP.  I.-^MADE^DISHBS 

made  as  above  by  using  fried  onion,  catsup,  soy,  a  little 
red  wine,  &c. ;  but  as  all  brown  made-dishes  are  expected 
to  be  piquant,  while  those  that  are  white  are  usually 
bland  and  balsamic,  seasonings  of  a  more  pungent  quality 
are  to  be  used.* 

460.  MocK-TURTLE,  OR  calf's  HEAD.  —  Scc  also  pagcs  167 

and  171. 
Get  a  large  fat  head  with  the  skin  on.  Scald  and 
clean  it  well.  Soak  it  in  hot  water,  and,  if  you  wish  to 
have  the  imitation-dish  very  rich,  parboil  it  in  good  veal- 
stock,  with  a  turnip,  carrot,  onions,  and  sweet  herbs. 
Skim  this  well.  In  half  an  hour  take  up  the  head,  and, 
when  cold  enough  to  be  firm  and  easily  handled,  cut  the 
meat  thus : — The  eyes  into  thin  round  slices,  having  first 
picked  out  the  black  part ;  the  gristly  part  about  the  ears 
into  long  narrow  strips,  the  fleshy  part  into  round  slices, 
the  thick  of  the  cheeks  into  small  dice,  the  thin  on  the 
forehead  into  long  strips,  and  the  peeled  tongue  into  nice 
square  bits.  Put  the  bones  and  trimmings,  with  a  piece 
of  bacon,  back  into  the  stew-pot.  Fry  some  minced 
eschalot  in  plenty  of  butter  browned  with  flour.  Put  the 
cut  meat  to  this  browning,  and  give  it  a  toss  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  strain  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  stock  over 
it,  to  make  the  dish  not  much  thicker  than  a  stew-soup. 
Season  with  mace,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  half-pint  of  Madeira. 
When  the  meat  has  stewed  very  slowly,  rather  soaking  in 
the  gravy  than  actually  boiling,  and  is  nearly  ready,  put 
to  it  cayenne  to  taste,  a  small  glass  of  catsup,  a  very  little 
soy,  and  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  chopped  basil,  tarragon, 
chives,  and  parsley.  When  skimmed  ready  to  be  dished, 
add  the  juioe  of  a  lemon.  Serve  in  a  large  but  not  deep 
soup-dish,  ornamented  with  a  cut  paste  border ;  and  gaiv 
nish  with  forcemeat-balls  and  egg-balls,  with  a  few  green 

*  In  France,  eschalot-sanee  is  served  with  a  plain  dressed  calTi 
head  ;  but  the  favourite  mode  of  dressing  this  dish  is  superhe.  Make 
a  forcemeat  of  a  pound  of  minced  veal  and  two  pounds  of  the  fat  of 
beef-kidney,  bread-crumhs  steeped  in  cream  and  dried,  and  fine  herbs 
minced — namely,  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  young  onions.  Add  salt, 
pepner,  and  spices.  Mix  this  thoroughly.  Stuff  the  bdned-head  with  it, 
but  keep  some  for  forcemeat-balls.  Draise  the  head  in  gravy-stock ;  put 
artichoke  bottoms,  veal  sweetbreads  cut,  truffles,  and  button-mushrooms, 
to  the  ragout,  and  serve  with  the  farce  balls. 


OF  DRESSED  VEAL.  883 

pickles  intei-mixed,  if  you  choose. —  Ohs,  This  highly- 
flaYoured  dish  may  be  enriched  by  parboiled  sweetbreads 
cut,  oysters,  turtle-balls,  &c. ;  if  the  head  be  lean  or 
small,  a  good  cow-heel  cut  down  will  make  an  excellent 
addition  to  it,  but  will  require  more  boiHng,  and  must  be 
put  into  the  stock-pot  an  hour  before  the  head. — For 
Potted  Heady  see  National  Dishes* 

461.  To  dress  Calved  Feet. — Clean  and  blanch  them. 
Clean  again  and  boil  them  till  tender ;  divide,  and  serve 
them  with  sauce  Robert,  or  sauce  cL  la  Tartare^  in  the  dish ; 
or  they  may  be  served  as  a  fricassee  like  calf  s  head,  thicken- 
ing the  sauce,  and  seasoning  it  with  lemon-peel  and  mace. 
— For  (jolfs  BrainSy  see  French  Cookery. 

MADE-DISHES  OF  COLD  VEAL. 

462.  To  ragout  cold  Veal. — Cut  the  cold  meat  into  small 
round  cutlets,  trimming  off  all  gristles,  skins,  bones,  &c. 
With  the  fragments,  an  onion,  a  turnip,  and  carrot,  make 
a  little  good  gravy.  Melt  some  fresh  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  flour  and  brown  the  slices  of  veal  of  a  light  brown ; 
take  them  up,  strain  the  made-gravy  into  the  pan,  and 
thicken  the  sauce  to  a  proper  consistence  with  flour  flrst 
mixed  with  butter.  When  smooth  and  well  mixed,  put 
in  the  cutlets,  and  let  them  simmer  very  slowly.  Season 
with  pepper,  mace,  catsup,  and  anchovy,  or  mushroom- 
powder,  if  you  choose ;  bearing  in  mind  that  meat  re-dressed, 
having  lost  much  of  its  native  flavour,  requires  more 
seasoning  than  at  first.  Skim  the  sauce,  and  pour  it  hot 
over  the  ragout. 

463.  To  hash  Veal. — Cut  the  meat  in  thin  small  slices, 
paring  away  all  gristles,  skins,  &c.  Warm  it  up  in  a 
gravy  drawn  from  the  bones,  as  in  the  former  receipt. 
Thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  season  with  mace, 
minced  lemon-peel,  a  spoonful  of  lemon-pickle,  or  the  juice 
of  a  lemon ;  or,  in  place  of  these,  a  glass  of  basil- wine. — 
See  Hashed  Beefy  pp.  318,  319. 

464.  To  mince  Veal. — Take  only  the  fine  white  part  of 
the  meat,— mince  it  very  finely,  and  heat  it  up  in  a  little 
veal-stock,  with  white  pepper,  salt,  mace,  a  good  deal  of 
finely-rasped  lemon-peel,  and  a  glassful  of  cream. — Ohs. 
Minced  Veal  may  be  dressed  as  patties,  scallops,  or  Man- 


OS^  CHAP.  I. — MADE-DISHES 

quettes.  It  is  much  more  savoury  when  made  of  undi*essed 
meat. 

4^.  A  Dunelm  of  cold  Veal, — This  is  made  by  mixing 
stewed  mushrooms  finely  minced  with  minced  veal, 
thickening  the  fricassee,  putting  a  little  cream  to  it,  and 
serving  garnished  with  toasted  sippets,  which  ought  to 
accompany  all  hcuhes  and  minces. 

466.  To  pot  Veal, — A  fillet  of  white  veal  answers  very 
well  potted.  (See  No.  431.)  —  Pounded  ham  or  smoked 
tongue  mixed  with  the  potted  veal  is  a  great  improvement 
to  it. — For  Potted  Calf  9  Head^  see  National  Dishes, 
For  Veal  Satcsa^e^  see  /Sausages  ;  and  for  several  excellent 
dishes  of  veal,  see  French  Cookery, 


HADE-DISHES  OF  MUTTON. — See  Boasts  of  Mutton^  page  106, 
and  Reform  Club  Cutlets^  No.  47o. 
467.  A  Haricot*  of  Mutton, — ^Cut  from  three  to  five 
pounds  of  the  back-ribs  into  handsome  chops,  tiimming 
away  the  fat  and  bones.  Flatten  the  chops  with  a 
cutlet-bat ;  season  them  well  with  mixed  spices,  (No.  334,) 
fiour,  and  brown  them  lightly  in  the  frying-pan,  over  a 
quick  fire,  and  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  their 
own  gravy,  and  a  quart  of  strained  stock,  in  which  onions, 
a  turnip,  a  carrot,  and  a  fagot  of  parsley  have  been 
boiled.  When  the  chops  have  stewed  slowly  for  some 
time,  put  in  one  large  or  two  middle-sized  carrots  cut  into 
slices  and  marked  on  the  edges,  a  dozen  pieces  of  turnip 
scooped  to  the  size  of  large  marbles,  and  a  half-dozeix 
button-onions  either  roasted  or  parboiled  and  peeled. 
When  the  chops  are  quite  tender,  skim,  thicken,  and 
season  the  gravy  with  pepper  and  salt.  Dish  the  chops 
in  a  soup-dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  and  roots  over  them. 
What  is  left  of  the  fore-quarter  when  a  shoulder  is  cut  off 
to  roast,  will  make  excellent  haricot  or  Irish  stew. — Ohs, 
Celery  or  cucumber  may  be  put  to  the  haricot,  and  also 
cut  pickles,  or  a  spoonful  of  catsup.  Brown  haricot  is 
made  with  carrot,  yellow   turnip,  and  onions;    White 

*  Haricot  properly  and  originally  meant  French  beans.  Now  with 
US  it  signifies  meat  cut  in  chops,  stewed  with  vegetables  of  different 
kinds. 


OP  MUTTON.  $35 

haricoty  of  haricot  beans,  white  turnip,  endive,  celery,  &c. 
Haricot  is  an  excellent  plain  dish,  nourishing  and  savoury, 
containing  a  judicious  combination  of  meat,  fluid,  and 
roots,  and  is  one  of  the  best  ways  in  which  veal-cutlets, 
mutton-chops,  or  rump-steaks  can  be  prepared.  Haricot 
may  be  made  of  the  loin,  but  not  so  economically  as  of 
the  neck  or  back-ribs.  These  chops  answer  well  with 
cabbage  braised  and  quartered. — See  p.  138,  and  !Nos. 
474,  475. 

468.  Shoulder  of  Mutton  with  Oysters, — Have  a  large 
shoulder,  which  has  been  kept  till  tender,  boned,  and 
highly  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Lay  some  bearded 
oysters  inside  the  meat,  roll  it  up  firm,  bind  it  with  fillets  of 
tape,  and  simmer  in  broth,  with  onion,  peppercoras,  and  a 
Jiead  of  celery,  till  ready.  Undo  the  tape,  and  pour  oyster- 
sauce  over  the  mutton. 

469.  To  dress  a  Scrag  of  Mutton. — Trim  the  scrag, 
and  dress  it  as  Bachelors*  Stew,  No.  396,  or  braise  it  in 
fresh  stock  with  roots,  seasonings,  and  a  fagot  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  small  slices  of  bacon  under  and  over  it,  if  you 
wish  it  rich.  Simmer  gently  for  three  hours.  Skim,  and 
strain  the  gravy,  and  serve  it  with  the  meat,  and  dressed 
spinage,  or  cucumber-sauce. 

470.  Shoulder  of  Mutton. — Receipt  by  a  Scotch  Lady. 
— Keep  the  shoulder  as  long  as  possible  without  spoiling. 
Half  roast  it.  Score  it  on  both  sides  as  for  broiling.  Melt 
in  the  basting-ladle  four  mellow  anchovies  chopped ;  put 
pepper  and  salt  to  this ;  place  a  clean  dish  under  the 
roast,  and  baste  with  the  following  hot  sauce : — The  melted 
anchovies,  half  a  pint  of  port,  half  a  pint  of  rich  gravy,  a 
spoonful  of  mushroom-catsup,  the  same  of  walnut-catsup, 
a  point  of  cayenne ;  baste  constantly  till  the  mutton  is 
done.  Dish  on  a  hot  dish  rubbed  with  garlic.  Skim  the 
sauce  or  dropped  gravy,  and  pour  it  over  the  mutton.* 

471.  To  dress  a  Breast  of  Mutton. — Cut  ofl^  the  fat ; 
parboil  the  meat ;  egg  it,  and  strew  over  it  shred  parsley 
and  bread-crumbs.      Stick  pieces  of  butter  all  over  it. 

*  M.  Dob  miglit  shrog  at  this  receipt  as  inadmissible  in  delicate 
cookery.  But  the  dish  is  admirable  for  gusto  ;  and  at  all  events  there 
are  so  lew  avowed  fair  amateurs  of  cookery  in  Scotland  that  we  like  to 
encourage  the  breed. — P.  T. 


936  CRAP.  I. — MADE-DISHES 

Roast  it  in  the  Dutch  oven,  and  serve  with  caper  or  Robert 
sauce,  or  with  stewed  cucumbers. 

472.  Muttan-Collopg. — See  Beef-Collopty  page  112,  and 
Chopsy  107. 

473.  To  grill  a  Breast  of  Mutton.  —  Cut  off  the 
superfluous  fat,  and  take  out  the  bones.  Beat  the  breast 
flat,  and  season  and  score  it  in  diamonds.  Brush  it 
with  egg,  and  strew  minced  parsley  and  bread-crumbs 
over  it.  Broil  it  in  a  Dutch  oven,  basting  it  well  with 
fresh  butter ;  and  serve  with  caper-sauce,  cucumbers,  or 
sauce  Robert.       ^ 

474:,  Mutton-CtUlets^  Maintenon, — Cut  handsome  chops 
from  the  loin,  or  cutlets  from  the  gigot.  Fry  some  chapped 
eschalot  and  mushrooms  in  butter,  and  in  this  brown  the 
cutlets.  Season  them  with  cooks'  pepper,  and  stew  them 
with  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley,  and  twisting  them  in 
buttered  papers,  finish  tiiem  on  the  gridiron.  Serve  with 
cucumbers,  or  any  sauce  that  is  liked. 

476.  Be/orm  Club  Mutton-Cutlets,  —  For  ten  nicely 
trimmed  cutlets,  seasoned  with  salt  and  white  pepper, 
mince  very  finely  a  quarter-pound  of  lean  dressed  ham  ; 
and  with  it  mix  a  quarter-pound  of  fine  bread-crumbs. 
Brush  the  cutlets  with  e^^y  and  dip  them  into  the  ham 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  them  for  ten  minutes  in  a  saute-pan, 
in  which  oil  to  fry  them  has  been  made  quite  hot,  [if  the 
pan  will  not  hold  the  whole,  keep  hot  those  already  done 
till  the  whole  are  finished.]  They  should  be  full  of 
gravy;  serve  on  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes,  with  the 
bones  pointing  outwards,  and  pour  plenty  of  "Reform 
Sauce"  over  the  cutlets.  Beform  sauce  is  a  piquant  sauce, 
made  of  two  onions,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  two  of  thyme, 
two  bay-leaves,  two  ounces  of  lean  ham,  half  a'  clove  of 
garlic,  and  half  a  blade  of  mace,  cooked  for  ten  minutes 
over  a  sharp  fire ;  thinned  with  two  spoonfuls  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  and  one  of  Chili  vinegar,  and  a  pint  of  brown 
sauce.  Boil  it  up,  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  skim  it ; 
and  boil  it  quickly  till  so  reduced  that  it  adheres  to  the 
back  of  a  spoon,  when  add  a  large  table-spoonful  of  red 
currant-jelly,  and  a  half  one  of  chopped  mushrooms.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;    and  when  the  jelly  is 


OF  MUTTON,  337 

melted,  strain  through  a  tammy.  When  wanted,  make 
it  hot,  and  add  the  white  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  lialf- 
inch  strips,  four  white  mushrooms  first  blanched^  one 
gherkin,  two  green  Indian  pickles,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
cooked  ham  or  tongue,  all  cut  in  strips  like  the  e^.  Do 
not  boil  the  sauce  after  these  are  added,  but  keep  very 
hot. — N.B.  This  we  think  an  excellent  general  sauce  of 
the  piquant  kind,  and  creditable  to  the  genius  of  M.  Soyer, 
though  the  simplicity  of  good  taste  might  dictate  fewer  in 
gredients.  For  the  one  gherkin  we  suggest  a  point  of 
cayenne..  The  Reform  Sauce  is  equally  good  for  roast  hare. 
Mutton-Steaks, — Cut  down  the  back-ribs,  a  rib  in  each 
steak,  and  chop  the  bone  short.  If  very  fat,  trim  away 
some  of  the  fat,  which  will  answer  very  well  for  pie-crust, 
puddings,  &c.  Broil  them  as  beef-steaks,  and  serve  hot 
and  hot.  Put  salt  and  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  in  the  dish, 
or  serve  with  sauce  Robert.  The  steaks  are  excellent  over 
potato-pudding,  or  mashed  potatoes,  or  arranged  round  a 
shape  of  potatoes,  or  with  potato-balls,  or  slices  fried  and 
arranged  round  them. — See  page  133. 

476.  Mutton-Collops  and  Cucumbers » — Pare  and  slice 
the  cucumbers.  Sprinkle  them  with  fine  salt  and  pepper, 
and  pour  vinegar  over  them.  Brown  thinly-cut  collops  in 
a  frying-pan,  and  then  stew  them  with  the  drained  cucum- 
bers in  a  little  stock.  Skim  and  season  the  stew,  and 
serve  it  hot  in  a  ragout  dish. — Obs,  Lamb  chops  are  ex- 
cellent dressed  as  above,  but  they  must  not  be  over  fat. 
Some  cooks  add  slices  of  onion  to  the  above  ragout,  and 
the  practice  is  commendable. — See  p.  133,  Nos.  474,  475. 

477.  To  Boll  a  Loin  of  Mutton, — Keep  the  meat  till 
quite  tender  and  just  beginning  to  turn.  Bone  it,  and 
season  it  highly  with  black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  mace, 
nutmeg,  and  cloves  (all  in  powder,)  and  salt.  Let  it  lie  a 
day  in  this  seasoning.  Flatten  it  with  a  rolling-pin,  and 
cover  it  with  forcemeat  as  for  roast  hare.  Roll  it  up, 
and  bind  with  fillets  of  linen.  Half- roast  or  bake  it  in  a 
slow  oven.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  when  cold,  and  finish  the 
dressing  of  the  loin  by  stewing  It  in  the  gravy  drawn  from 
itself,  first  dredging  it  well  with  flour  and  more  spices. 
Put  to  the  hot  sauce,  ten  minutes  before  dishing  the  meat, 

T 


338  CHAP.  I,' — MADE-DISHES 

a  glass  of  red  wine,  catsup,  an  anchoyy,  and  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  lemon-pickle. 

478.  To  dress  Mutton  Tails  and  Kidneps*  -—  Parboil 
six  rumps  (which  are  the  number  necessary  for  a  dish,) 
in  mutton-broth.  Let  them  cool,  and  take  off  the  cake  of 
fat  from  the  gravy.  Brush  the  rumps  with  egf^,  dip  them 
in  crumbs,  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  lemon-thyme, 
and  brown  them.  Hare  six  kidneys  larded  and  broiled 
in  a  Dutch  oven,  and  stew  a  little  boiled  rice  in  the  gravy 
of  the  rumps.  Dish  the  rice  in  a  shallow  dish,  and  lay 
the  rumps  on  it^  the  points  meeting  at  a  centre  ;  place  a 
kidney  between  each  of  these,  and  garnish  with  cut 
pickles.  See  Kidneys,  No.  399.  —  Obs,  This  dish  is  very 
good  dressed  plain  in  the  Dutch  oven,  and  either  served 
on  rice  stewed  in  stock,  or  with  stewed  cucumbers.  Be- 
sides the  above  methods  of  dressing  mutton,  a  haunch  may 
be  cut  and  roasted  as  venison.     A  Jlllet  may  be  braised  * 

*  Braisii^, — ^We  are  afraid  that  the  yowi^  beginner  in  eookery  maj 
not  find  the  account  of  the  process  of  braising,  -which  is  given  in  this 
chapter,  sufficiently  circmnstuitial.  This  process,  which  is  of  French 
invention,  is,  by  thorough-bred  gourmands,  esteemed  the  ne  plvs  ultra 
of  cookery.  It  is  eminently  suited  to  white  meats  ;  lean,  or  what  was 
anciently  called  **  rascal  venison,"  turkey,  and  domestic  fowls.  It  is 
not  quite  so  well  adapted  to  delicate  stomachs  ;  nor  is  it  relished  by 
those  whose  unsophisticated  palates  can  still  distinguish  and  enjoy  the 
native,  decided  flavour  of  meats.  Braised  turkey,  or  rather  Dinde  en 
daubCf  is  a  verv  favourite  dish,  and  when^old  and  dry  in  the  flesh, 
braising  is  reqmsite  for  this  bird,  of  which  it  has  been  somewhat  irre-^ 
verently  sung — 

"  Turkey  boQ'd  i&  Turkey  spott'd. 
And  Turkey  roast  is  Turkey  lost ; 
But  for  Turkey  hraiKd,  the  Lord  be  praised !" 

Braising  is  comparatively  an  easy  process ;  and  the  same  roles  apply 
either  to  meat  or  poultry.  Clean,  season,  and  stuff  or  lard,  wnere 
necessary,,  the  article  to  be  dressed.  Line  a  thick-bottomed  stew-pan 
or  baking-dish,  just  large  enough  to  hold  the  meat,  with  slices  of  good 
bacon  or  fat  beef,  slicM  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip.  Strew  in  a  few 
chopped  herbs,  with  salt,  mace,  and  black  and  Jamaica  peppercorns, 
and  a  few  bay-leaves,  a  clove  of  garlic,  &c.  &c.  observmg  to  vary 
and  suit  the  seasoning  to  the  nature  of  the  preparation.  Itay  the 
meat  or  poultry  on  this  spicy  bed,  and  cover  it  with  a  superstratum 
of  the  same  ingredients.  Over  this  place  a  sheet  of  cambric  paper, 
wrap  a  cloth  about  the  lid  of  the  stew-pan,  and  press  it  closely  aown, 
setting  a  weight  over  it  to  keep  it  so,  and  to  prevent  the  escape  of 
the  savoury  steams  which  the  meat  or  poultry  ought  to  imbibe  till 
completely  saturated.  Set  the  stew-pan  over  embers,  have  emberj 
kbove  it,  and  let  the  process  be  very  slow.  Dishes  which  are  hraised 
are  generally  finished  by  fflaxinff. 


OF  MUTTON.  dSd 

by  coTering  it  with  buttered  paper  or  veal-caul,  and  then 
coarse  paste,  and  roasting  and  glazing  it, — serving  it  on 
French  beans  or  cucumbers,  first  stewed  in  gravy,  and 
placed  in  the  dish  below  the  mutton.  Rumps  are  very 
suitably  served  over  a  pwee  of  peas,  or  of  turnips.  —  See 
Rognons  de  Moutouy  No.  648. 

479.  Parsons  or  Friar's  Venison, — ^When  kept  till 
very  tender,  bone  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  and  lay  it  to  steep 
in  wine,  vinegar,  herbs,  and  spices.  Make  a  forcemeat  of 
the  trimmings  and  the  kidney,  or  of  ham,  or  tongue,  with 
oysters  or  mushrooms.  Stuff  the  shoulder,— cover  it  with 
veal-caul  or  paper ;  roast  or  braise  it,  and  serve  with  veni- 
son-sauce. Garlic  gives  the  flavour  of  foi'eign  cookery,  if 
this  flavour  is  wished. 

480.  Sheep's  or  Lamh^s  Trotters. — Stew  them  in  a 
braise  for  four  hours,  and  serve  with  sauce  Robei*t. — See 
French  Cookery^  No.  653. 

481.  Sheep^s  Tongues, — Blanch  ;  stew  in  broth  for  two 
hours,  or  in  the  stock-pot,  or  braise  five  or  seven  tongues. 
Skin  and  split  them  ;  heat  them  up  and  dish  them  round, 
with  the  roots  in  the  centre,  and  pour  a  rngcut  of  turnip 
or  onion  into  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

482.  Another  way, — Blanch  and  stew  them,  make  a 
ragout  of  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  small  onions,  fried  in 
butter  with  a  little  minced  eschalot,  catsup,  wine,  and 
white  seasonings;  add  stock.  Stew  the  tongues  in  this 
for  a  half-hour.  Skim  the  sauce.  Dish  the  tongues, 
sauce  them,  and  arrange  the  onions  either  round,  or  in  the 
centre. 

483.  Made-Dishes  of  Cold  Mutton, — Dressed  mutton 
may  be  warmed  up  either  by  hashing^  stewing  in  stock, 
or  broiling  in  a  Dutch  oven.  The  last  mode  is  suitable 
to  a  blade-bone,  or  Poor  Man  of  Mutton^  which  may  be 
scored,  seasoned,  broiled,  and  served  with  any  relishing 
sauce,  or  over  a  hash  of  the  rest  of  the  mutton.  From  a 
roast  haunch,  a  nice  fillet  may  be  cut ;  if  underdone,  so 
much  the  better.  Shape  it,  cut  out  the  bone,  which 
replace  with  dressed  forcemeat ;  have  a  little  gravy,  or 
draw  a  gravy  from  the  trimmings,  and  stew  the  fillet  very 


840  CHAP.  I. MADB-DISHES 

slowly  till  quite  hot ;  or  it  may  be  well  basted  and  heated 
in  the  Dutch  oven,  at  a  good  distance  from  the  iire. 

484.  To  Hash  Mutton, — Cut  the  white  underdone  parts 
into  thin  slices  about  the  size  of  a  shilling,  laying  aside 
the  fat.  Prepare  a  gravy  from  the  gristles  and  other 
trimmings,  and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  onion. 
Skim  off  the  fat,  and  strain  the  gravy,  and,  putting  tlie 
meat  to  it,  let  it  soak  till  thoroughly  warm,  but  it  must 
not  boil.— See  Obs,  No.  421,  and  422. 

485.  Minced  Mutton  with  Cucumbers, — Mince  the  best 
parts  left  of  a  cold  roasted  leg,  and  stir  this  into  a  mince  of 
stewed  cucumbers.  Let  it  heat,  but  not  boil. — Obs, 
Minced  mutton  may  also  be  served  with  cooked  endive. 

486.  Plain  Casserole  of  dressed  Mutton. — Butter  and 
line  a  mould  with  mashed  potatoes  ;  fill  it  with  the  sliced 
mutton  properly  seasoned ;  cover  the  whole  with  more 
mashed  potatoes,  and  bake  and  turn  it  out. 

487.  Haricot  of  cold  Mutton. — Cut  the  cold  meat  into 
chops,  tiimming  off,  as  in  all  hashes,  superfluous  fat. 
Simmer  it  very  slowly  in  any  strong  well-seasoned  stock 
you  may  have  ready,  or  may  draw  from  the  mutton-bones. 
Add  a  half-dozen  of  button-onions,  some  round  slices  of 
carrot,  and  a  turnip  scooped  down  in  bits  like  marbles. — 
Obs.  This  is  a  good  and  economical  way  of  dressing  cold 
roast  mutton  for  family  use.* — See  also  pages  318,  319. 
and  French  Cookety. 

N.  B. — Almost  every  dish  made  of  mutton  may  be 
prepared  the  same  way  of  lamb. 

Made-Dishes  of  Lamb  — See  Index  for  Boast  Lamb, 
Saddle  of  Lamb,  Chops  of  Frying,  Boiling^  Head,  S^c. 

488.  Breast  of  Lamb  with  Cucumbers. — Chop  off  the 
chine-bone,  and,  notching  the  breast  well,  stew  it  in  good 
gravy  for  twenty  minutes.    Take  it  up,  drain  and  score 

*  A  Poor  Man  of  MtUton, — This  Scotch  dish  is  the  blade-bone 
grilled,  or  heated  before  the  fire.    There  is  a  traditionary  story  of  Lord 

■ ,  after  a  long  and  severe  fit  of  illness  with  which  he  was  seized 

in  London,  horrifying  his  landlord  by  whining  forth  from  behind  his 
bed-curtains,  when  urged  to  choose  and  eat,  *'  I  think  I  could  tak*  a 
snap  o*  a  Puir  Man.**  Swiffs  scheme  for  Ireland  went  only  the  length 
of  eating  poor  children. 


OF  LAMB.  841 

it  in  diamonds.  Season  it  with  mixed  spices,  dredge  it 
with  flour,  and  finish  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Serve  on  stewed 
cucumbers,  or  green  peas. 

489.  Lamh-Ckalets  toith  Spinage,  —  Take  cuUets  from 
the  loin ;  trim,  flatten,  season,  and  broil  them ;  and 
placing  spinage  (No.  197)  high  and  neatly  in  a  dish,  dress 
the  cutlets  round  it. 

Lamb  cutlets  are  also  very  savourily  served  with  a 
ragout  of  mushrooms  or  oysters,  the  cutlets  laid  around 
the  ragout.  Asparagus,  or  asparagus  peas,  are  very  suit- 
able to  dressed  dishes  of  lamb. 

490.  Shoulder  of  Lamh  Stuffed. — Bone  the  shoulder,  and 
fill  up  the  vacancy  with  forcemeat.  Braise  the  meat  very 
slowly  over  embers,  or  a  stove  ;  or  stew  it  plainly  in  the 
same  manner.  Glaze,  and  serve  it  either  with  sorrel-sauce, 
tomata-sauce,  or  stewed  cucumbers. 

491.  Lamb-Steahs  RagoUJt. — Stew  tliem  in  veal-stock, 
to  which  a  very  little  sweet  milk  is  put,  and  season  with 
white  pepper  and  mace.  When  nearly  ready,  thicken  the  ^ 
sauce  with  a  little  mushroom-powder,  a  bit  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  add  a  large  glassful  of  good  boiling 
cream. 

492.  Lamh-Steaks  Browfiy  see  pp.  133-140. — Flatten  and 
season  them.  Brush  them  with  e^g^  and  roll  them  in  a  sea- 
soning of  chopped  parsley,  bread-crumbs,  grated  lemon-peel, 
nutmeg,  and  salt.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  light-brown,  and  pour 
over  them  some  good  thickened  gravy,  in  which  are  put  a 
glass  of  wine,  and  either  a  few  stewed  oysters  or  mush- 
rooms. Skim  the  sauce,  and  serve  the  dish  very  hot, 
garnishing  it  with  forcemeat-balls,  fried  bread,  or  cut 
pickles  if  preferred.  These  chops,  which  form  a  nice 
side-dish,  may  be  served  over  a  purie  of  turnip  ;  or  with 
peas,  or  stewed  cucumbers. 

493.  Another  way, — Fry  the  steaks  for  ii^^  minutes  in 
butter ;  drain  them,  dip  them  in  ^g'^  and  bread-crumbs, 
and  finish  them  on  the  gridiron. 

494.  Lamb-Stoeetbreads  Ragout.  —  Blanch  wliat  will 
make  a  dish  with  scalding  water.  Soak  and  stew  them 
in  good  clear  gravy  for  twenty  minutes,  adding  white 
pepper,  mace,  and  salt.     Thicken  the  gravy  with  butter 


342  CHAP.  I.-^MADB-DISHES 

rolled  in  flour.  Beat  up  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  glass 
of  sweet  cream,  witli  a  dessert-spoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Take  off  the  stew-pan,  and  gradually 
mix  in  the  beat  egg  and  cream.  Make  the  sauce  hot» 
stirring  it  diligently  lest  it  curdle,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Asparagus  points,  or  cut  young  French  beans,  first  par- 
boiled, may  be  stirred  into  the  ragout.  —  Obi.  If  the 
sweetbreads  are  very  large  they  must  be  cut. 

495.  Lamb-Chops  with  Potatoes,  a  favouriu  Dish, — Cut 
the  back-ribs  of  a  large  lamb  into  handsome  chops, 
trimming  off  the  bone  with  a  chopping-knife.  Season, 
and  brush  the  chops  with  a  beat  egg ;  dip  them  in  crumbs 
and  minced  parsley,  and  fry  them  nicely.  Place  mashed 
potatoes  (made  somewhat  thin  with  butter  and  cream, 
and  again  heated,)  high  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  score 
this  neatly,  and  lay  the  hot  chops  around,  leaning  each 
chop  on  the  side  of  the  adjoining  one. — Ohs.  A  finely- 
minced  onion  may  be  added  to  the  mashed  potatoes,  if  the 
flavour  is  liked.  This  is  just  a  puHe  of  potato.  To  dress 
Lamb's  Liver,  see  p.  142.  To  dress  Lamb^s  Head,  or  Galfs 
Head,  see  No.  457  ;  and  National  Dishes. 

496.  To  dress  a  Leg  of  Lamb  with  Vegetables. — Cut  the 
loin  into  handsome  steaks,  and  fry  them  nicely.  Boil  the 
gigot  slowly,  skimming  it  well,  that  it  may  look  white 
and  plump.  Place  the  gigot  in  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
lay  ^e  steaks  around  it,  with  sprigs  of  nicely-boiled  cauli- 
flower on  each  steak :  or  it  may  be  served  with  spinage, 
sorrel,  or  stewed  cucumber..  Pour  melted  butter  or 
Bechamel  over  the  gigot. — Obs.  This  is  a  good  variety 
in  dressing  lamb,  and  is  attended  with  no  additional  ex- 
pense whatever. 

497.  To  Chill  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb. — Boil  for  forty 
minutes,  score  in  diamonds,  and  broil  or  brown  it  in  a' 
Dutch  oven.  Serve  with  a  clear  gravy,  or  with  mush- 
room or  cucumber  sauce.  A  neck  oifat  lamb  is  very  good 
boiled  and  served  over  mashed  turnip,  with  a  little  white 
sauce  poured  over  it. 

Besides  the  above  methods  of  cookery,  lamb  may  be 
dressed  as  ragout,  collar,  currie.  Outlets  Maintenon, 
covered  with  rice,  and  in  all  the  ways  mutton  is  dressed. 


OF  LAMB  AND  VENISON.  34S 

Cold  lamb,  whether  shoulder  or  breast,  is  best  re-dressed 
in  the  Dutch  oven,  or  by  scoring,  seasoning,  and  grilling  it ; 
or  it  may  be  hashed,  though  this  mode  of  dressing  is 
not  so  well  suited  to  lamb  as  to  veal  or  poultry. — For  Boast 
Lamby  see  p.  114. 

498.  Lamb's  Stove^  a  Scottish  Dish. — Clean  and  blanch 
the  head.  Stew  it  in, broth,  or  along  with  a  scrag  of 
mutton,  till  tender.  Add  minced  parsley,  green  onions, 
and  a  good  deal  of  mashed  spinage,  and  serve  the  stew  and 
head  together  in  a  deep  dish. — 0^.  This,  nationality 
apart,  we  consider  an  indifferent  preparation.  It  is  but 
a  beggarly  imitation  of  the  Tele  cPAgneau  a  la  plmhe  verte 
of  our  old  allies  the  French. — See  No.  467.  The  brains  and 
liver  may  be  boiled,  rubbed  through  a  tammy-cloth,  and 
put  to  the  stew.  Asparagus  or  peas  may  be  substituted 
for  spinage,  and  the  soup  thickened  with  yolks  of  eggs. 

-499.  Lamb's  Stove,  by  a  French  Receipt.  —  Clean  two 
lambs'  heads.  Lift  up  the  skin,  and  cut  out  the  jaw- 
bones. Let  them  soak  in  salt  and  water ;  blanch  them  ; 
loib  them  with  lemon  to  whiten  them.  Let  them  simmer 
for  an  hour  in  a  blanc,*  Drain  them  ;  split  the  skull ; 
take  out  the  brains,  skin  the  tongues,  and  split  them ; 
trim  the  ears.  Serve  the  heads  neatly  arranged  on  the 
dish  with  a  good  sauce,  and  with  the  harslet  boiled  for  two 
hours,  and  minced  or  cut  in  scollops  and  laid  under  the 
head  or  heads,  as  a  ragout :  or  serve  with  a  green  sauce  of 
parsley.  One  large  head  will  make  a  dish. — See  No.  748.* 
500.  Pigs'  Pettitoes. — Boil  the  feet  tiU  tender ;  boil  also 
the  harslet  as  directed  in  lamb's  head.  Mince  the  harslet 
(t.  e.  pluck,)  and  season  and  serve  with  the  feet  over  it ; 
garnish  with  sippets. — Lamb's  Trotters,  No.  480. 

MADE- DISHES  OF  VENISON. 

601.  To  Stew  a  Shoulder  of  Venison  when  too  lean  to 
roast. — Bone  the  meat  when  it  has  been  kept  long  enough. 
Flatten  it,  and  lay  over  it  thin  slices  of  fat  well-flavoured 
mutton.  Sprinkle  with  plenty  of  mixed  spices,  and  roll 
it  up  very  tight.  .  Stew  it  slowly  in  rich  beef  or  mutton 
gravy,  in  a  close  stew-pan  that  will  just  hold  it.  Add, 
when  nearly  finished,  pepper,  cayenne,  allspice,  and  a  half- 

*  See  Index  for  the  rich  stock  called  a  blanc. 


•344  CHAF.  I. MADB  DISHBS 

pint  of  claret  or  port.  When  the  venison  is  tender,  which 
will  be  in  about  three  hours,  take  off  the  bandages,  and 
dish  it,  pouring  the  strained  gravy  hot  over  it.  Serve 
with  venison-sauce. — Ohs.  A  few  slices  of  mutton,  or  two 
or  more  shanks  well  broken,  may  be  put  to  the  gravy  to 
enrich  the  stew.  A  breast  of  venison  may  be  dressed  as 
above,  but  is  better  as  a  pasty. 

502.  Venison  Collops^  a  Scotch  Dish.  —  Cut  the  meat 
in  thin  cutlets,  season  tliem  highly  with  mixed  spices,  and 
having  browned  them  in  the  stew-pan,  put  to  them  a 
quarter-pint  of  strong  brown  gravy,  the  same  quantity  of 
claret,  some  fried  crumbs,  a  little  fine  sugar,  and  a  half- 
glass  of  white  wine  vinegar.  Stew  slowly  in  a  close- 
covered  stew-pan,  and  pour  over  the  coUops  the  strained 
sauce.  They  may  first  be  marinaded  in  the  wine,  vinegar, 
and  spices.  —  Obs,  Venison  makes  the  finest-flavoured 
minced  collops,  surpassing  either  beef  or  hare  ;  and  excel- 
lent steahSy  when  seasoned,  dipped  in  butter,  rolled  in 
crumbs,  and  broiled  or  fried  quickly.  But  these  steaks 
require  a  gravy-sauce,  unless  the  venison  be  very  fat,  — 
See  Nos.  66,  22,  and  21. 

502.*  Baked  Venisoti,  an  excellent  mode, — Grate  the  crumb 
of  a  penny  loaf,  to  which  put  a  pint  of  white  wine,  the  grated 
rind  of  a  Seville  orange,  nutmeg,  salt,  a  quarter  pound  of 
sugar,  and  a  half  pound  of  butter.  Wrap  the  meat  in  this 
farce,  and  bake  and  serve  with  venison-sauce. 

503.  Civet  of  Venison.  —  Cut  the  back-ribs,  or  breast, 
into  small  chops.  Fry  some  pieces  of  good  bacon  in  butter, 
and  when  melted,  drain  off  most  of  the  liquid,  and  add 
flour.  Brown  the  steaks  in  this  roux,  and  then  moisten 
them  with  red  wine,  and  good  stock.  Add  minced  parsley, 
onions,  pepper,  salt,  and  also  garlic,  if  admired.  Let  tliis 
cook  slowly,  shaking  the  pan  occasionally.  Add  a  few 
small  onions  and  mushrooms.  Let  the  meat  stew  slowly 
for  two  hours,  and  the  sauce  be  of  good  consistence.  This 
is  elegantly  served  en  casserole.  Hare  or  rabbits  thus 
cooked  make  good  civet. 

MADE-DISHES  OF  COLD  VENISON. 

604.  To  Stew  cold  Venison. — Make  a  gravy  of  what  re- 
mains about  the  bones  after  cutting  off  the  meat,  a  little 


r 


OF  TEKISON  AND  HARfi.  845 

Strong  unseasoned  mutton-stock,  and  a  bundle  of  fine  herbsi 
When  this  is  good,  skim  it,  and  add  browned  butter  thick- 
ened with  flour,  also  catsup,  mixed  spices,  a  little  claret, 
and  a  spoonful  of  currant-jelly,  if  liked.  Boil  this  till 
snvooth,  stirring  it  well,  and  put  in  the  thinly-sliced  veni- 
son. Let  it  only  heat  thoroughly,  and  taking  out  the 
herbs,  dish  it,  squeezing  a  lemon  into  the  dish.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  fried  sippets,  or  with  cut  pickles. 
505.  To  Hash  Venison. — Cut  the  meat  as  for  other  hashes, 
and  soak  till  warm  in  its  own  gravy.  Season  and  dish  it 
with  toasted  sippets. — Obs,  When  the  hashed  venison  is 
very  lean,  some  cooks  cut  the  firm  fat  of  a  neck  of  mut- 
ton into  thin  small  slices,  stew  them  first  in  wine  and 
sugar,  and  add  them  to  the  hash.  A  large  piece  of  cold 
venison,  when  it  cannot  be  used  otherwise,  will  make  a 
good  stew-soup,  made  as  directed  for  dressed  veal  stew- 
soup. — For  Roasting  Venison,  see  No.  21 . — CoUopSy  No.  65. 

MADE-DISHES  OF  HARE  AND  RABBIT. 

506.  To  Stew  a  Hare, — Cut  oflF  the  legs  and  shoulders, 
or  wings,  as  they  are  sometimes  called  ;  chop  down  the 
middle  of  the  back,  and  then  chop  each  side  into  three  or 
four  pieces.  Season  these  with  mixed  spices,  and  soak^ 
them  for  some  hours  in  a  glassful  of  eschalot- vinegar,  with 
three  bay-leaves,  and  some  cloves.  Make  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  gravy  of  the  neck,  head,  liver,  heart,  and  trimmings, 
with  onions,  a  slice  of  bacon  chopped  into  small  bits,  a 
-large  carrot  split,  fine  herbs,  and  two  dozen  corns  of  black 
pepper  and  allspice.  Strain  this  into  a  clean  stew-pan, 
and  put  the  hare,  with  the  vinegar  in  which  it  has  been 
soaked,  to  it,  and  stew  gently  till  done.  Add  salt,  spices, 
and  a  little  cayenne.  Catsup  may  be  added,  and  the  stew 
may  be  thickened  with  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour. — 
Obs.  This  is  an  excellent  method  of  dressing  a  hare,  which 
makes  at  best  but  a  dry  and  ungainly  roast.  A  few  par- 
roasted  button-onions  may  be  peeled,  stewed  in  the  sauce^ 
and  served  with  the  hare.     An  old  hare  requires  to  be 

*  The  propriety  of  this  and  of  all  marinades^  vre  must  own,  is 
strongly  doubted  by  £ome  gastronomers  of  repute.  They  do  not  con- 
sider the  foreign  flavour  imparted  by  the  soaking,  as  an  equivalent  for 
the  native  juices  withdrawn.. 


S4S  CHAP.  I. — ^MABB-DISHSS 

either  larded,  stewed  in  very  rich  broth,  or,  which  is  still 
better,  braiud.  Garlic,  if  liked  at  all,  should  always  be 
used  with  hare.  Hare  is  also  stewed  in  wine,  ale,  or  cider, 
enriching  the  liquor  with  rasped  bacon  and  high  season- 
ings ;  and  also  with  the  blood,  stirred  in  when  the  dish,  is 
taken  off  the  fire  ;  the  liver  and  lights  may  be  dressed  as 
forcemeat-balls  to  serve  with  it.  Currant-jelly,  honey,  or 
sugar  may  be  used,  but  with  discretion,  in  this  dish. — See 
Lievre  en  daube.  No.  662. 

607.  To  Jug  Hare, — Cut  it  into  small  pieces  ;  season 
them,  and  put  them  into  a  jugging-can  which  will  just 
hold  them,  with  a  slice  or  two  of  good  bacon  or  beef  hashed, 
a  fagot  of  herbs,  a  few  onions,  with  a  half-dozen  cloves 
stuck  in  them,  a  couple  of  bay-leaves,  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  water.  Cover  the  jugging-can  closely,  so  that 
no  steam  may  escape.  Set  it  in  a  steamer,  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  or  a  slow  oven,  for  three  hours.  When 
done,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  strain  off  the  gravy  ;  thicken 
it ;  add  seasonings,  if  necessary  ;  and,  dishing  the  pieces 
of  hare  neatly  in  a  deep  dish,  pour  the  hot  sauce  over 
them ;  or,  if  they  have  become  cold,  heat  them  up  in  it.— 
0h9,  Red  wine,  instead  of  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
a  clove  of  garlic,  may  be  added  to  the  jugged  hare,  which 
will  then  make  a  highly-flavoured  ragout.  Serve  venison- 
sauce  ;  but  the  natural  sauce  is  the  best  that  can  accom- 
pany this  dish. 

508.  To  Broil  a  roaxUd  Hare  for  Supper  or  Luncheon. — 
Cut  off  the  legs  and  shoulders,  and  flatten  and  season  them 
highly ;  broil  them  on  a  quick,  clear  flre  ;  froth  with  cold 
butter,  and  serve  them  hot  with  venisou'sauce. 

509.  To  Hash  Hare. — Cut  down  the  cold  hare  into  thin 
bits,  and  warm  these  in  good  gravy,  or  in  gravy  drawn  from 
the  head,  bones,  &c.  Season  with  mixed  spices,  an  onion, 
and  herbs,  and  a  little  wine.  Pick  out  the  onion  and 
herbs,  and  serve  the  hash  with  toasted  sippets. — Ohs,  Hare 
may  also  be  dressed  as  directed  for  braised  goose.  —  See 
No.  520. 

510.  Hare-Cakes. — Mince  the  best  parts  of  the  hare  with 
a  little  firm  mutton-suet.  Season  the  mince  highly. 
Pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  make  up  the  cakes  with  raw 


OF  HARB  AND  RABBIT.  347 

eggs,  as  small  cakes  or  sausage-roll ;  flour  and  fry  ihem,  or 
do  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. — See  Gateau  de  Lievrey  No.  660. 

511.  To  Smother  RahUu,  —  Truss  them  and  boil  them ; 
fmother  them  with  white  onion-sauce,  melting  the  butter 
¥rith  milk  or  cream,  that  it  may  look  very  white. — Ohs, 
In  Scotland  rabbits  used  to  be  sm&thered  in  an  onion- 
sauce  made  with  strong  clear  gravy  instead  of  melted 
butter  ;  and  though  the  dish  looked  less  fine,  it  was  at  least 
equally  savoury.  Rabbits  cannot  be  too  slowly  boiled. 
Bring  them  very  slowly  to  boil,  and  finish  by  the  side  of  the 
fire.  Those  who  dislike  strong  onion-sauce  for  this  dish 
may  use  a  part  of  apples,  turnips,  or  bread.  Celery, 
artichoke-bottoms,  young  peas,  and  French  beans,  are 
all  used  as  ragouts  for  rabbits.  Warren  rabbits  are  far 
before  tame  ones  for  the  table,  —  wild  ones  are   better 

stm. 

512.  To  Fry  Rabbits. — Cut  them  in  joints,  and  fry  them 
in  fresh  butter,  with  dried  parsley  and  a  sprinkling  of 
sage.  Serve  liver-and-parsley  sauce.  Rabbits  may  also 
be  fricasseed  as  directed  for  chickens.  They  make  an 
excellent  pie,  a  good  soup,  and  may  be  potted  or  jugged. 
—  See  Ourriey  Pie,  Babbits  a  la  Venetienne,  S^c. 

MADB-DISHES  OF    POULTBT   AND  GAME.  —  See  alsO  pagCS  116 

to  126 ;  and  pages  134,  185. 

613.  To  Boil  Fowls  toith  Bice.*  —  Stew  a  large  white 
fowl  in  a  little  clear  mutton  or  veal- stock,  seasoned  with 
white  pepper,  onion,  and  mace,  in  a  close  stew-pan  that 
will  just  hold  it,  and  allow  it  room  to  swell.  When  it 
has  stewed  a  half-hour,  put  to  it  a  small  cupful  of  clean, 
well-soaked  rice.  When  tender  take  up  the  fowl,  keep  it 
hot,  and,  straining  the  rice  from  the  broth,  place  it  on  a 
reversed  sieve  to  dry.  Dish  the  fowl,  and  pile  the  rice  in 
light  heaps  around  it.  Bechamel  may  be  put  over  all. 
Serve  parsley  and  butter  sauce.  Serve  the  soup  sepa- 
rately.— See  pages  dd,  94,  and  98. 

514.  Fowl  with  Mushrooms,— 'Se^aon  and  stew  as  above 

*  This  IB  quite  the  French  dish  Poulards  au  riz.  Fowls  d  ia 
Turque  are  much  the  sune  thiDff  too,  save  that  they  are  stuffed  with 
seasoned  rice  ;  in  roasting  ha^e  the  breast  covered  with  layers  of  bacon, 
and  are  papered  till  done.  No.  515  is  much  the  same  as  the  dish  in 
French  Cookery  called  Poulels  aua  huttrea. 


348  CHAP.  L^MABB-DISHES 

in  a  very  strong  gravy,  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  add 
a  few  button-mushrooms  nicely. picked.  Serve  mushroom- 
sauce  or  a  white  fricassee  of  mushrooms. 

616.  Fowh  toith  Oysters,  —  Truss  as  for  boiling.  Put 
plenty  of  butter  and  a  seasoning  of  mace  and  lemon-rind 
into  them  ;  tie  them  'at  neck  and  vent ;  line  a  nice  stew- 
pan  with  bacon,  and  put  in  the  fowls.  Moisten  with 
stock,  and  braise  the  fowls  slowly.  Meanwhile  have  a 
very  nice  thick  oyster-sauce  prepared  with  butter  and 
cream ;  dish  the  fowls  on  this,  and  garnish  with  fried 
oysters  and  slices  oi  lemon.  —  See  Hoiotoiodiey  National 
Dishes* 

616.  To  Farce  a  Fowl — a  favourite  old-fashioned  English 
Dish,  —  Having  i)oned  the  fowl,  stuff  the  inside  with  the 
following  forcemeat:  —  A  quarter-pound  of  minced  veal, 
two  ounces  of  grated  ham,  two  of  chopped  onion  and 
suet,  a  spoonful  of  shred  sweet  herbs,  two  chopped  hard 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  minced  lemon-peel,  mixed 
spices,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Shred  the  several  ingredients 
and  beat  the  whole  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding  two  eggs 
to  make  them  cohere.  Stuff  the  fowl,  sew  it  up,  keeping 
it  of  the  natural  shape,  draw  in  the  legs,  and  truss  the 
wings.  Stew  it  in  clear  stock,  and  when  nearly  done, 
thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  rolled  in  flour.  When  just 
ready  to  serve,  add  a  little  cream,  squeeze  a  lemon  into 
the  dish,  and  serve  the  fowl  with  the  sauce  around  it.  — 
See  Quenelles,  and  GratiUy  French  Cookery, 

517.  To  Ragota  Poultry,  Pigeons,  Rcibbits,  S^c, — a  gene- 
ral receipt.  —  Half-roast  the  thing  which  is  to  be  dressed 
as  a  ragout.  Cut  it  into  joints  as  at  table,  and  stew  in 
good  stock,  with  a  couple  of  onions,  two  dozen  corns  of 
allspice  and  black  pepper,  a  few  cloves,  a  piece  of  lemon- 
peel,  and  for  some  things  a  slice  of  celery,  for  others  a 
couple  of  bay-leaves.  Skim  the  stew,  and,  keeping  the 
lid  quite  close,  let  it  simmer  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
or  more,  according  to  the  age  and  size  of  the  birds.  Strain 
off  the  gravy,  leaving  the  fowls  in  the  stew-pan  to  keep  hot. 
Take  off  the  cake  of  fat  which  will  soon  form,  and  thicken 
the  gravy  with  butter  rolled  in  browned  flour  till  it  is  as 
thick  as  stiff  pancake-batter.     Add  to  it  a  glass  of  white 


OP  POULTRY  AND  GAME.  349 

wine  and  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon.  Dish  the  fowls,  ducks, 
or  rahbits,  whichever  your  dish  may  be,  and  pour  the 
sauce  hot  over  them,  garnishing  with  fried  bread.  —  Ohs. 
The  sauce  must  be  well  worked,  and  ought  to  be  smooth, 
thick,  and  well  coloured.     It  may  be  made  without  wine. 

517.^  Chicken  Cutlets. — Cut  the  bone  from  the  breasts  and 
legs  of  two  or  three  chickens.  Skin  the  separated  joints 
and  fillets,  and  shape  neatly,  and  season  them  with 
"  chicken  fixings,"  i,  e,,  cayenne,  mace,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Brush  with  egg,  dip  in  butter  and  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  a 
8aut6-pan,  turning  often.  Meanwhile  have  a  seasoned 
gravy  drawn  from  the  bones  and  trimmings,  and  a  bit  of 
lemon-rind.  Strain  it,  add  to  it  a  little  mushroom-powder, 
and  thicken  with  butt-er  rolled  in  fiour,  and  a  liaison  of  one 
egg.    Dish  the  cutlets  high,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

618,  To  Braise  Chickens  or  Pigeons  with  Green  Peas, 
or  Mushrooms,  and  Asparagus.  —  Bone  them,  and  stuff 
them  with  forcemeat,  as  at  No.  516.  Fry  a  few  sliced 
onions  in  a  stew-pan ;  add  to  these  the  bones  and  other 
trimmings  of  the  chickens,  with  a  broken  shank  of  veal 
or  mutton,  a  fagot  of  herbs,  a  f^w  blades  of  mace,  and  a 
pint  of  good  stock.  Cover  the  chickens  with  slices 
of  bacon,  and  then  with  paper.  Stew  very  slowly 
over  embers,  or  on  a  stove,  for  an  hour  and  ]  a  half, 
lake  them  up,  and  keep  them  hot  in  an  oven.  Strain  the 
braise-gravy,  and  boil  it  up  quickly  to  a  jelly.  Glaze  the 
chickens  with  it,  and  serve  with  a  brown  fricassee  of 
mushrooms,  or  over  asparagus,  or  8.purSe  of  green  peas. — 
See  French  Cookery,  from  No.  664  to  671. 

519.-4  Continental  Method  of  dressing  cold  Boast 
Fowls.  —  Beat  up  two  yolks  of  eggs  with  butter,  mace, 
nutmeg,  &c.  Cut  up  the  fowls,  dip  them  in  this,  and  roll 
the  egged  pieces  in  crumbs  and  fried  parsley.  Fry  the  cut 
pieces  nicely  in  butter  or  clarified  dripping,  and  pour  over 
the  dish  any  white  or  green  vegetable  ragout  (that  you 
may  have  left)  made  hot.  Parmesan  grated  is  used  to 
heighten  the  ^oiU  of  this  dish. 

520.  To  Braise  a  Goose,  —  Every  thing  to  be  braised  is 
trussed  as  for  boiling.  Put  thin  slices  of  bacon  over  the 
goose,  and  line  the  stew-pan  with  the  same.    Put  in  the 


S60  CHAP.  I. — MADK-DISHES 

goose,  with  the  giblets  and  seasonings.  Mobten  with  stock. 
Braise  as  directed,  page  338,  and  serve  it  above  either 
apple  or  onion  sauce,  or  onion-sauce  mollified  with  white 
turnip. — Obs.  A  hare  may  be  well  cooked  thus. — Wine  is 
employed  in  braising  both  goose  and  tarkey,  but  we  see  no 
use  for  it. — For  Turkey,  see  French  Cookery. 

521.  To  Fricassee  Chickens  white, — Cut  up  each  chicken 
neatly  into  eight  parts,  as  in  carving  them  at  table.  Wash, 
dry,  flatten,  and  season  the  parts  with  mixed  spices,  using 
only  white  pepper.  Take  a  pint  of  clear  veal  or  mutton 
gravy,  or  other  good  clear  stock,  more  or  less  according  to 
the  number  of  chickens,  and  put  to  it  a  roll  of  lemon- 
peel,  two  onions,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  a  few  sweet 
herbs.  Stew  the  chickens  in  this  very  slowly  for  a  half- 
hour,  keeping  the  stew-pan  covered.  Strain  the  sauce, 
and  thicken  it  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  adding  salt  and 
a  scrape  of  nutmeg.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  a  quarter- 
pint  of  good  hot  cream,  and  the  yolk  of  one  or  two  eggs 
well  beat.  Stir  this  very  carefully,  and,  lest  it  curdle,  be 
sure  it  does  not  boil.  A  glass  of  white  wine  and  the 
squeeze  of  a  lemon  may  be  put  to  this  fricassee. — Ohs.  Be- 
sides the  above  methods  of  dressing  fowls  and  chickens, 
they  may  be  stewed  with  peas  and  lettuce  in  good  stock, 
seasoned  with  parsley,  young  onions,  salt,  and  spices.  Put 
in  the  peas,  and  a  cut  lettuce,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  after 
the  chickens.  Fill  up  the  dish,  when  served,  with  the 
gravy,  laying  the  peas  and  lettuce  over  the  chickens.  If 
large  fowls,  they  may  be  cut  down  the  back.  Young 
chickens  may  here  be  trussed  as  for  boiling,  and  stufi^ed. — 
See  French  Cookery,  Fricassee  Naturel  or  d  la  Paysanne. 

522.  Davenport  Fowls  are  stuffed  with  a  forcemeat  made 
of  the  hearts,  livers,  &c.,  an  anchovy,  yolk  of  hard-boiled 
eggs,  onions,  mixed  spices,  and  a  piece  of  butter  or  shred 
mutton-sueti  or  veal-kidney  fat.  Sew  up  the  necks  and 
vents,  brown  the  fowls  in  a  Dutch  oven,  then  stew  them 
in  stock  till  tender,  and  serve  with  mushroom-sauce,  or 
melted  butter  and  catsup  ;  a  fowl  farced  in  this  way  may 
be  larded  in  the  breast,  and  roasted. — See  No.  516. 

523.  To  Stew  Oiblets, — Clean  and  cut  them  as  directed 
for  giblet-soup,  p.  173.    Season  with  mixed  spices.    Steyf 


OF  TUBKBYS  AMD  PIGEONS.  S61 

them  till  very  tender  in  a  little  stock,  and  before  serving 
thicken  the  sauce,  and  add  a  glass  of  good  boiling  cream 
to  it.     Green  peas  may  be  added  to  this  stew. 

524.  To  Pull  cold  Turk^  or  Chickens^ — Skin  them,  and 
pull  the  meat  off  the  breast  and  wings  in  long  flakes. 
Brown  these  in  a  Dutch  oven,  basting  with  butter:  or 
brown  very  quickly  in  a  frying-pan,  so  as  not  to  dry  the 
meat.  Drain  from  the  butter,  and  simmer  the  pulled 
meat  in  good  gravy,  seasoned  with  mixed  spices.  Thicken 
the  gravy.  Meanwhile,  cut  off  the  legs,  sidesmen,  and 
back.  Season  and  broil  these,  and  serving  the  pulled  hash 
in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  place  these  neatly  over  and 
around  it.  Garnish  with  fried  sippets.  Turkey  may  be 
warmed  as  above ;  but  the  leg  should  be  scored,  peppered, 
and  grilled,  and  the  hash  served  under  the  deviled  leg, — 
See  No.  27. 

625.  To  Stew  Pigeons  brown, — Season  them,  and  truss 
them  with  the  legs  inward.  Return  the  livers  into  them, 
with  a  bit  of  butter  and  chopped  parsley.  Lay  them  in  a 
small  stew-pan,  with  slices  of  bacon  below  and  over  them. 
Twenty-five  minutes  will  cook  them  ; — serve  well-seasoned 
brown  gravy-sauce  with  them. — See  Nos.  33, 42. 

526.  To  RagovZ  Pigeons, — Clean  and  stuff  them  with  a 
seasoning  of  mixed  spices,  salt,  parsley  shred  very  finely, 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  few  bread-crumbs.  Tie 
them  at  neck  and  vent,  half-roast  them,  and  finish  in  the 
stew-pan  in  good  gravy,  to  which  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a 
bit  of  lemon -peel,  and  a  few  fresh  or  pickled  mushrooms 
may  be  put.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Dish  the  pigeons,  and  pour  it  over  them.  Garnish  with 
asparagus  laid  between  the  birds.  This  is  almost  the 
French  ^*  Pigeons  en  compote,*' — Obs.  Cream,  or  the  beat 
yolk  of  an  egg,  may  be  put  to  this,  and  to  any  white 
ragout,  taking  care  to  prevent  these  ingredients  from 
curdling.  The  pigeons  may  be  stuffed  with  a  forcemeat 
of  the  chopped  livers,  with  bread-crumbs,  minced  parsley, 
butter,  spices,  and  a  little  cayenne,  and  dressed  as  a  brown 
ragout,  by  browning  them  in  the  frying-pan  previous  to 
fitewing,  thickening  the  sauce  with  browned  flour,  and 
adding  to  it  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  or  a  glass  of  red  wine* 


do2  CHAP.  1. KAD£*II1SHE9 

Some  good  cooks  stew  pigeons  with  white  cabbage,  cut  as 
for  pickling,  serving  the  cabbage  round  the  pigeons ;  or 
stew  them  in  brovm  gravy  highly  seasoned,  adding  mush- 
rooms or  a  little  catsup.  Others  stew  them  with  a  let- 
tuce quartered  instead  of  cabbage.  Pigeons  pot  very  well, 
and  are,  though  common,  most  excellent  as  a  pie,  either 
cold  or  hot. — N.B.  The  cabbage,  when  thus  used  with 
stewed  pigeons,  should  be  first  braised.  To  roast  or  broil 
Pig  sons,  see  pp.  125  and  134 ;  Pigeon  Soup,  p.  169. 

527.  Ducks  with  young  Peas,  a  favourite  Dish  pre- 
pared in  the  best  manner, — Clean,  truss,  and  singe  the 
ducks,  which  about  August  should  be  plump  though  young. 
Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  mixed  spices. 
Place  them  between  layers  of  bacon  in  a  stew-pan  that 
will  just  hold  them,  and  moisten  them  with  a  little  stock. 
Stew  them  from  a  half-hour  to  a  whole  one,  according  to 
the  size  and  age  of  the  birds.  Meanwhile  parboil  and 
afterwards  fry  three  pints  of  the  most  delicate  green  peas 
with  a  half-pound  of  good  bacon  cut  in  bits.  While  the 
peas  still  retain  their  good  colour,  drain  off  all  the  fat, 
dust  some  flour  over  them ;  add  a  little  water  or  stock,  a 
bunch  of  parsley  and  young  onions,  some  pepper  and  salt, 
and  the  ducks  carved  (if  too  large)  into  proper  pieces. 
Serve  the  peas  over  the  ducks,  and  let  all  fat  be  care- 
fully skimmed  off.  This  is  much  the  same  dish  as  the 
French  Canard  a  petit  pois, — Obs.  The  ducks  may  be 
roasted ;  but  the  stringy  summer  ducks  that  come  with 
green  peas  are  much  better  dressed  as  above.  Some  per- 
sons will  prefer  the  peas  fried  in  butter  instead  of  bite  of 
bacon  ;  and  the  dish,  if  not  so  rich,  will  be  at  least  as 
refined.  Take  out  the  parsley  and  onions  before  serving. 
Chickens  are  excellent  cooked  in  this  manner,  or  with 
asparagus. 

528.  To  Stew  Ducks  with  Cabbage, — Stew  the  cut  cabbage 
in  top-fat  with  seasonings.  Par-roast  a  large  fat  duck, 
and  then  stew  it  in  gravy  well  seasoned  with  herbs,  onions, 
sage,  pepper,  and  salt.  Thicken  the  gravy,  and  serve  the 
duck  with  the  cabbage  under  it  and  the  sauce  in  the  dish. 
— Obs,  Ducks  thus  dressed  may  be  served  with  mashed 
turnips,  onion  pur^e,  or  saur  croute. 


OF  DUCKS.  353 

529.  To  Raffout  Ducks. — ^Pat  the  gizzards,  livers,  necks, 
&c.,  to  a  pint  of  good  strong  beef-broth,  or  other  well- 
seasoned  good  stock.  Season  the  ducks  inside  with  salt 
and  mixed  spices.  Brown  them  on  all  sides  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  then  stew  them  till  tender  in  the  strained  stock. 
When  nearly  ready,  thicken  the  sauce  with  browned  flour 
and  butter. 

530.  Another  tcM^. — Clean,  and  season  the  ducks  with 
pepper  and  salt  inside.  Par-roast  them,  and  stew  them  in 
beef-gravy,  with  shred  onions  fried  in  the  stew<-pan  before 
the  gravy  is  put  in.  When  the  ducks  have  simmered  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  been  turned,  put  in  a  few  leaves  of 
sage  and  of  lemon-thyme  chopped  very  fine,  or,  in  the 
season,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  young  green  peas.  When 
these  are  tender,  thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  serve  the  ducks  and  peas  together  in  a  deep 
dish. — Obs.  When  peas  are  not  in  season,  a  dozen  of  small 
button-onions  may  be  first  par-roasted  and  then  stewed 
with  the  ducks;  or  sliced  cucumbers  and  onions,  first 
fried.* — See  No.  527.  In  Ireland  ducks  are  often  boiled, 
and  very  good. 

531.  To  Hash  Duck, — Nothing  hashes  better  than  a  fat 
duck.  Cut  it  into  pieces  as  in  carving  at  table,  and  soak 
these  by  the  side  of  the  fire  in  a  little  boiling  gravy  till 
thoroughly  hot.  Add  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  mixed  spices,  to  give  the  sauce  a  high  relish  : 
or  cut  up  the  duck,  add  a  gravy  of  the  trimmings  to  some 
fried  onions,  thicken  it,  when  strained,  with  butter 
browned  with  flour,  stew  the  cut  duck  gently  till  ready, 
and,  having  seasoned  the  sauce,  serve  the  hash  on  fried 
sippets. — Obs,  A  cold  ^oose  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
way,  adding  a  little  finely-shred  sage  and  onion  to  the 
hash-sauce ;— >and  the  legs  of  the  goose  may  be  scored, 
seasoned,  and  grilled,  as  directed  for  a  turkey,  and  served 

*  Fillets  cut  from  the  breast  of  plump  under-roasted  ducks  (that 
have  been  stuffed  with  chopped  young  sage  and  onion  before  they  were 
roasted,)  served  in  hot  oranee-gravy  and  the  juice  that  flows  from  the 
birds,  with  cayenne  and  hieh  seasonings,  are  esteemed  a  rare  luxury 
by  the  skilful  gourmand,  lliis  is  a  dish  for  the  solitary  epicure,  not 
for  the  table.  Wives,  children,  and  friends  have  no  portion  in  mck 
dainties.    It  is,  moreover,  the  French  Table  Salmi, 

Z 


854  CHAP.  I. — MADE^DISHES. 

over  the  hash.  Cold  potdtry^  rahfnts,  and  game  may  all  be 
hashed  as  above.  See  that  the  hash-sauce  be  well  thick- 
ened, smooth,  and  carefully  cleared  of  all  fat.  Where 
tliere  is  any  cold  stuffing  left,  cut  it  into  slices,  and  serve 
it  warmed  in  the  Dutch  oven  round  the  hashed  meat. 

532.  To  Mash  cold  Wild  FowL — Carve  them  as  at  table, 
and  let  them  soak  till  hot  in  boiling  gravy  thickened  \^ith 
btead-crumbs,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  mixed  spices,  a 
glass  of  claret,  and  a  spoonful  of  lemon-pickle  or  orange^- 
juice.  Garnish  with  fried  sippets.  For  partridges  and 
pheasants  use  only  white  pepper  and  white  wines.  < — 
N.B.  Some  gourmands  dislike  bread-crumbs  here.  —  See 
pp.  120,  121. 

633.  To  Ragout  Wild  Duck  or  T^aZ.— Half-roast  the 
birds.  Score  the  breast,  but  not  deeply,  and  into  each  in- 
denture put  mixed  spices  and  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon.  Let 
the  birds  lie  a  few  minutes,  and  then  stew  them  till  tender 
in  good  brown  gravy.  Take  up  the  birds  and  keep  them 
hot ;  add  a  glass  of  wine  and  three  i&nely-shred  eschalots 
to  the  gravy,  and  pour  it  over  the  ducks. — Ohs,  This  is  a 
dish  of  very  high  gout,  and  it  is  prized  accordingly.  In 
carving  ducks,  whether  wild  or  domestic,  after  scor- 
ing the  breast,  it  is  an  improvement  to  put  a  little  butter 
over  it,  as  in  shoulder  of  lamb,  and  above  that,  to  squeeze 
a  bitter  orange  or  lemon.  Ducks,  are  also  re-dressed  as 
carrie,  brown  ragout,  or  even  a  stew-soup.  Ducks,  and 
particularly  the  wild,  may  be  dressed  as  civet  of  hare. — See 
also  French  Cookert^y  Salmis,  and  No.  29. 

To  Mince  or  scollop  a  cold  FowL — Follow  No.  464, 
Minced  cold  Veal,  adding  any  egg-sauce  left,  or  chopped  hard 
yolks  of  eggs  to  the  mince,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

534.   CHICKEN,  RABBIT,  AND  VEaL,  &C.  AS  CURRIE. 

This  common  and  favourite  dish  is  at  once  economical, 
convenient  at  table,  and  of  easy  preparation.  Our  ex- 
tending and  intimate  relations  with  India  had  made 
curries  popular,  before  the  failure  of  the  potato,  and  the 
greater  necessity  of  using  rice  had  introduced  this  mode  of 
cookery  into  general  use.  All  kinds  of  viands,  cooked  or 
raw,  may  be  dressed  as  currie.  The  only  important  rule 
is,  to  have  good  stock ;  and  the  sole  art  consists  in  hitting 


cuftRifi.  855 

the  just  medium  in  seasoning,  or  in  suiting  the  tastes  of 
the  individuals  for  whom  the  currie  b  prepared.  Our 
Indian  friends  must  forgive  us  for  just  hinting  that  their 
censure  of  English  curries  is  somewhat  unqualified.  We 
have  elsewhere  [No.  1 54^]  said  that  any  positive  formula 
for  the  preparation  of  currie-powders  is  quite  as  ahsurd  as 
it  would  be  to  give  every  sort  of  ragout  or  fricassee  the 
same  quantity  of  seasoning,  consisting  of  the  same  ingre- 
dients. There  are  no  prepared  general  currie-powders  for 
all  purposes  in  India.  The  Indian  cook  suits  his  seasonings 
to  tiie  particular  dish  he  is  dressing,  and  the  taste  of  his 
employers.  The  fashion  of  having  compound  dry  powders 
was  adopted  to  suit  voyagers  six  months  at  sea,  where  the 
ingredients  could  not  be  got  fresh.  Now  that  we  may 
have  green  chilies,  and  when  cocoa  nuts  are  selling  in 
barrows  on  all  our  streets,  with  an  endless  variety  of  cuU 
tivated  vegetables  and  fruits,  acid  and  sub-acid,  which 
India  never  knew,  it  is  idle  to  talk  longer  of  the  supe-* 
riority  of  the  native  currie  seasonings.  In  the  first  place, 
the  kind  of  meat  to  be  curried  should  be  ascertained,  and 
the  seasoning  in  every  case  adapted  to  the  character  and 
quality  of  the  meat.  A  currie  of  chicken,  for  example, 
and  one  of  mutton,  or  of  cod,  require  very  difierent  powders, 
even  with  the  helps  or  correctives  the  cook  may  administer 
in  the  course  of  her  labours.    We  do  not  wish  to  become 

►  "an  advertising   medium"    for  particular  Italian  ware- 

houses ;  but  many  of  them  sell  currie-powders  which  have 
at  least  a  chance  of  being  fresh ;  and  those  scientifically 
prepared  by  chemists  and  sold  in  druggists'  shops,  are  as 
good  as  any  wholesale  preparations  of  one  thing  for  every 
kind  of  currie  can  ever  be.  Besides,  we  never  yet  knew 
an  old  Indian  who  had  not  his  own  favourite  recipe. 

To  Currie  Meat  or  Chickens, — Cut  up  the  chickens, 
fowls,  rabbits,  veal,  lamb,  fish,  &c.  &c.  into  pieces  proper 

,  to  be  helped  at  table,  and  rather  small  than    clumsily 

large.     Fry  this  cut  meat  in  butter,  with  sliced  SpanicJi 

,  or  button-onions,  and  a  few  chopped  mushrooms,  or  mush- 

room-powder, till  of  a  fine  amber  colour.  When  the  meat  is 
browned,  add  nearly  a  pint  of  good  mutton  or  veal  stock 
unseasoned;  and  when  this  has  simmered  slowly  for  a 

h  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  more  if  the  fowls  are  old,  add  from 


S56  CHAP.  I.^MADE-DISHES. 

two  to  three  dessert-spoonfuls  of  <mrrie-powder,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  rice  flour,  both  rubbed  veiy  smooth,  and  carefully 
stirred  into  the  sauce.  Rasped  cocoa-nut  is  a  good  in- 
gredient in  currie.  Put  it  in  as  thickening,  nsing  less  rice- 
flour.  When  the  currie  is  just  ready,  add  also  a  glass  of 
good  thick  cream,  and  either  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a 
proportionate  quantity  of  citric  acid.  Skim  off  all  fat, 
and  if  the  sauce  be  not  rich  enough,  stir  in,  before  dishing, 
B  small  quantity  of  melted  butter.  If  the  sauce  be  too 
thick,  add  a  little  stock  to  thin  it. 

Our  favourite  Fainily  Currie. — Cut  from  one  to  three 
pounds  of  lean  mutton  into  cubes  of  about  an  inch  and 
half.  For  each  pound  of  meat  fry  two  large  mild  onions 
in  butter,  and  when  they  are  brown  and  pulpy  throw  in 
the  meat,  and  fry  it  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  and  turning 
it  round ;  add  in  the  proportion  of  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
currie-powder  for  each  pound  of  meat,  rubbing  very 
smooth.  Moisten  with  a  very  little  broth  or  water,  and 
stew  very  slowly  till  the  meat  is  quite  tender.  This  is  a 
mild  currie.  Cayenne,  lemon-juice,  and  mushrooms  may 
be  added  according  to  taste,  and  the  currie  may  be  made 
thinner.     Serve  boiled  rice,  No.  535. 

Some  cooks  pound  part  of  the  meat  and  all  the  scraps 
to  thicken  the  currie,  and  also  the  boiled  livers,  &c. 
Others  first  marinade,  in  lemon-juice  and  sliced  onion,  the 
meat  they  currie. — Oba.  Currie  may  be  made  of  cold 
chicken,  slices  of  dressed  veal,  lamb,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
macaroni,  &c.  and  is  an  acceptable  variety,  in  place  of 
toujours  hash,  though  very  irferior  to  currie  of  undressed 
meat.  Some  cooks  add  a  few  small  onions  that  have  been 
cooked  in  broth ;  others  a  few  capsicums  or  a  fresh  chili, 
which  is  peculiarly  acceptable  to  those  who  like  hot-spiced 
dishes. — See  JFHsh-Curriey  p.  211,  and  No.  757. 

535.  To  Boil  Mice  for  Currie, — ^Pick  and  soak  good  rice, 
and  boil  it  quickly  in  boiling  water  and  salt  till  it  be 
tender  but  not  soft ;  drain  it,  and  put  it  to  dry  before  the 
fire  on  a  sieve  reversed.  Either  heap  it  lightly  on  a  dish 
by  itself,  or  if  the  dish  of  currie  be  small,  it  may  be  served 
round  the  dish,  en  casserole^  in  which  the  currie  is  placed 
in  the  centre.  —  Obs,  To  avoid  hardness  or  over-boiling, 
some  cooks  shower  cold  water  upon  the  boiled  rice,  and 


CURRIE.  857 

set  it  to  evaporate  before  the  fire,  so  that  every  grain  may 
be  distinct,  and  yet  the  whole  tender  enough  to  eat. 
When  over-bailed,  the  rice  may,  after  draining,  be 
smoothed,  brushed  over  with  yolk  of  eggy  and  coloured 
in  the  oven,  —  though  this  necessity  ought  never  to  be 
courted.  Handle  it  very  lightly.  Spooning  spoils  it,— 
toss  it  lightly  up  with  two  forks.  It  may  be  moulded  in 
a  shape,  with  the  meat  served  in  the  heart  of  it.  —  See 
National  Dishes^  and  No.  209. 

536.  To  Boil  Mice  nearly  If,  Soger's,  or  the  Reform  Club 
way, — Like  ourselves,  the  Chef  of  the  Reform  Club  prefers 
Carolina  to  Patna  rice.  Wash  a  pound  of  the  best  Caro- 
lina rice  in  two  waters.  Throw  it  into  a  half  gallon  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  till  three  parts  done,  when  drain. 
Butter  the  inside  of  a  stew-pan,  into  which  tumble  the 
drained  rice  :  fix  the  lid  tight,  and  set  the  stew-pan  on  a 
trivet  in  a  warm  oven  uutil  the  rice  is  quite  tender.  Dish 
it  lightly.  Rice  should  never  be  spooned  nor  much 
handled  in  any  way.  The  above  we  have  found  the 
best  and  easiest  receipt  for  boiling  rice  to  serve  with 
currie  or  other  dishes. 

537.  Hindostanee  Mode  of  boiling  Bice, — After  picking, 
soak  it  in  cold  water  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Strain  and 
put  it  into  boiling  water,  which  shall  rise  three  inches 
above  the  rice.  Cover,  and  boil  about  six  minutes, 
skimming  when  necessary.  Add  a  gill  of  sweet  milk  for 
each  pound  of  rice,  and  in  two  minutes  more  remove  the 
pot  from  the  fire ;  strain  without  squeezing ;  return  it 
dry  into  the  pot  upon  a  slow  fire,  pour  over  it  half  an 
ounce  of  melted  butter  mixed  with  a  spoonful  of  the  hot 
water  in  which  the  rice  was  boiled,  and  in  six  minutes  it 
will  be  ready  for  table.  —  From  an  Indian  Correspon- 
dent, 

538.  Brain -Balls  and  Cakes  for  Made-Dishes, — These 
may  be  made  either  for  lamb's  or  calf  s  head  by  the  same 
process.  Clear  the  brains  of  all  the  fibres  and  skina  that 
hang  about  them,  and  having  scalded  them,  beat  them  up 
in  a  basin  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  bread- 
crumbs, another  of  flour,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  and  a 
small  dessert-spoonful  of  finely-shred  parsley,  and  if  for 


d5d  CHAP,  I. — MAtl^-DISHES. 

calTs  head,  a  little  slired  sage  and  thyme.  Put  seasoning^ 
to  the  mixture,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  melted  butter  ; 
and  dropping  the  batter  in  small  cakes,  fry  them  in  lard 
of  an  amber  colour.  They  may  either  be  served  as  a 
garnishing,  or  as  a  small  corner-dish  to  accompany  a  dressed 
calfs  head  or  lamb's  head. — See  No.  748. 

539.  For  Balls,  —  Roll  the  above  mixture  into  small 
balls  with  more  e^^  and  flour. 

540.  Croquets  and  Rissoles*  —  Tliese  little  useful  dishes 
differ  from  savoury  patties  only  in  shape*  They  are  alike 
made  of  cold  chicken,  sweetbreads,  veal,  or  any  nice  bit 
of  white  meat  that  is  left  cold.  Mince  the  meat,  season 
it,  and  stew  it  for  two  minutes  in  giavy.  Croquets  are 
minced  meat  of  various  kinds  rolled  up  as  small  sausages, 
dipped  in  eggy  and  rolled  in  bread-crumbs,  fried  a  light 
brown,  and  served  with  nicely-fried  parsley.  We  give  an 
example  :  Croquets  of  Shrimps, — Pound  to  a  fine  paste  a 
quart  of  fresh-shelled  shrimps,  with  two  ounces  of  butter, 
and  mace,  nutmeg,  and  cayenne,  to  taste.  Pour  hot  milk 
over  two  ounces  of  stale  bread,  and  soak  for  twenty 
minutes.  Make  it  a  dry  panada,  as  at  No.  694,  and  pound ' 
it  with  the  shrimp  paste,  mixing  in  gradually  two  whisked 
eggs.  When  cold  and  firm,  roll  the  mixture  into  croquets 
the  size  of  olives  ;  and  Qgg^  crumb,  and  fry  or  poach  them 
for  five  or  six  minutes,  according  to  their  size.  Rissoles  are 
made  in  thin  pufF-paste,  in  any  form  you  please,  spreading . 
a  little  of  the  mince  on  the  paste,  and  doubling  it  up  like 
an  apple-pasty ;  or  they  are  served  as  balls  rolled  up  in 
paste,  and  fried,  and  garnished  with  parsley. — See  French 
Cookery y  Hors  ^ceuvres, 

541.  Canapes, — Take  the  crumb  of  a  large  loaf,  cut  it 
in  slices  the  thickness  of  three  quarters  of  an  inch  ; 
afterwards  cut  the  slices  into  pretty  forms,  and  fry  them  of 
a  nice  colour  in  oil  or  butter ;  mince  separately  the  hard 
yolks  and  whites  of  eggs,  cucumbers,  capers,  anchovies, 
in  strips,  different  fine  herbs,  small  salad  herbs,  &c.,  and 
put  them  in  a  little  oil ;  season  the  canapes  (e.  e,  fried 
bread)  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar ;  dress  handsomely, 
and  garnish  tastefully  with  cut  hard  eggs,  ham,  beetroot, 
small  radishes,  anchovies,  capers,  cresses,  &c.  &c.,  and 


Sausages.  So9 

8? rve  upon  dishes  as  Hor$  d'cBuvres,  i,  e,  relishes.  Canapes 
are  also  made  of  skates'  livers,  and  other  things,  like  other 
Hors  (Tanivres, 

542.  Pork  Sausages,  —  Mince  the  fat  and  lean  of  pork, 
keeping  out  skins  and  gristles,  and  season  it  well  with 
salt,  black  and  Jamaica  ground  pepper,  and  chopped 
sage.  Clean  and  half  fill  the  guts,  and  fry  the  sausages. 
Sausage  meat  of  all  sorts  may  be  cemented  with  eg^  and 
cooked  in  rolls,  L  e,  cannelons,  or  in  small  cakes. 

543.  Oxford  Sausages,  —  Take  equal  quantities  of  veal 
and  pork,  mince  them,  and  add  a  half  of  the  weight  of  beef- 
suet  ;  mix  and  season  this  well,  as  directed  above,  and 
add  a  small  quantity  of  the  crumb  of  fresh  bread,  steeped 
in  water. — Obs,  A  chopped  anchovy  is  an  improvement  to 
these  sausages.  Lemon-peel,  grated  nutmeg,  lemon-thyme, 
savoury  and  sweet  marjoram,  and  basil,  formerly  used  for 
these  compositions,  are  now  getting  obsolete. 

543.*  Oxford  Ji>A».— Cut  thin  small  coUops  from  a  leg 
of  mutton,  and  clear  them  of  fat  and  sinews.  Season  to 
your  taste,  and  put  into  a  small  stew-pan  in  which  a  good 
lump  of  butter  (proportioned  to  the  coUops)  has  been 
melted.  Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  collops  are 
three  parts  done,  when  add  gravy  in  proportion  to  the 
quantity,  a  bit  of  roiuc^  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  or  any 
flavoured  vinegar  you  prefer.  Simmer  for  five  minutes 
and  serve  in  a  hash  dish  with  sippets.  Oxford  John  of 
Venison^  No.  502,  is  a  superb  dish. 

544.  Epping  Sausages. — Take  equal  quantities  of  young 
tender  pork  and  beef-suet.  Mince  them  very  finely,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  a  sprinkling  of 
sage,  and  some  thin  rind  of  bacon.  Roll  up  with  egg  and 
fry  it. 

545.  Bologna  Sausages. — Take  equal  weight  of  bacon, 
beef,  pork,  aAd  veal.  Mince,  and  season  high  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  sage.  Fill  a  well- cleaned  gut,  and  boil  for  an 
hour ;  or  smoke  and  dry  them. 

546.  Beauvillier's  Sausages.  —  Mince  what  quantity  of 
fresh  pork  will  be  necessary  ;  mix  with  it  equal  to  a 
quarter  of  lard  ;  add  salt  and  fine  spices ;  fill  the  skins 
and  tie  them  ;  hang  them  in  the  smoke  for  three  days  ; 


860  CHAP.  I. — MABS-DISHES. 

then  cook  them  in  bouillon  for  three  hours,  with  salt,  a 
clove  of  garlic,  thyme,  bay,  basil,  parsley,  and  young 
onions ;  when  cold,  serve  upon  a  napkin. 

547.  Smoked  Scotch  SausageSy  to  keep  and  eat  cold, — Salt 
a  piece  of  beef  for  two  days,  and  mince  it  with  suet. 
Season  it  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  onion,  or  eschalot. 
Fill  a  large  well-cleaned  ox-gut,  plait  it  in  links,  and 
hang  the  sausage  in  the  chimney  to  dry.^  Boil  it  as 
wanted,  either  a  single  link  or  altogether. 

548.  Common  Beef-SaueagcB* — These  are  made  of  minced 
beef,  with  seasonings,  and  a  proportion  of  suet.  The 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  soaked  in  water,  is  allowed  to 
every  three  pounds  of  meat,  before  filling  the  skins. 

549.  Savfdc^8, — Take  a  piece  of  tender  pork,  free  from 
skin  and  gristles,  and  salt  it  with  common  salt  and  a 
little  saltpetre.  In  two  or  three  days  mince  it,  and  season 
with  pepper,  chopped  sage,  and  a  little  grated  bread.  Fill 
the  gu^  and  bake  the  savaloys  for  a  half-hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  If  to  be  eaten  cold,  let  them  lie  a  day  or 
two  longer  in  the  salt. — Ohs,  Sausage  meat  may  be  broiled 
in  a  veal-caul,  as  a  cake,  first  pressed  in  a  flat  shape.  It 
may  be  reddened  with  a  little  saltpetre.  If  to  be  used  im- 
mediately, oysters,  mushrooms,  &c.,  may  be  put  to  sausages 
to  heighten  the  flavour. — See  Botidins^  French  Cookery. 

550.    DEVILS  AND  DIABLOTTNS. 

Though  what  go  by  the  ugly  name,  devils,  are  often 
served  at  supper  or  luncheon,  they  are  most  commonly 
considered  as  provocatives  and  stimulants, — a  relish  with 
wine,  or  a  spur  to  a  jaded  appetite.  Their  preparation 
must  accordingly  vary  vnth  the  momentary  tastes  or 
necessities  of  the  consumers,  l^he  only  indispensable 
attribute  of  the  common  familiar  cock-crow  devil  for  the 
reresuppery  is  scorching  heat,  and  teaivcompelling 
pungency.    Devils  are  made  of  the  legs,  rumps,  backs, 

*  Some  of  these  sausages  used  to  be  made  when  a  Mart  was  killed  r 
they  formed  an  excellent  article  of  supply  for  the  hill,  the  moor,  or  the 
boat;  and  in  the  Hebrides  and  remote  parts  of  the  Highlands  they  still 
hold  an  honoured  place  in  the  wide  open  chinmey.  Real  Bologna 
sausages  labour  under  the  imputation  of  being  made  of  asses^  flesh. 
It  is  said  the  celebrated  Fetter  Lane  sausages  owed  their  flavour  and 
fame  to  sweet  basil. 


JOEYILS  AND  DIABLOTINS.  361 

and  gizzards  of  cold  turkey,  goose,  duck,  capon ;  and  of 
all  kinds  of  game,  particularly  the  backs  of  moor-game, 
which  have  a  peculiarly  stimulating  bitter ;  and  also  of 
venison,  veal,  and  mutton-kidney,  fish-bones,  (p.  189.) 
and  of  biscuits  or  rusks.  The  meat  to  be  dressed  in  this 
way  must  be  scored,  that  the  seasonings  may  find  suitable 
places  of  retreat.  The  seasonings,  which  consist  of  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  and  currie,  mushroom,  anchovy,  or  truffle 
powder,  must  be  administered  at  the  discretion  of  the 
consumer.  It  is  a  good  mode  to  have  the  things  seasoned 
at  table,  and  then  sent  to  the  kitchen  fire.  The  devils  must 
be  broiled  on  a  strong  clear  fire,  and  served  in  a  hot-water 
dish,  or  one  with  a  spirit-lamp.  When  not  served  dry  as 
a  relish  with  wine,  the  proper  sauces  for  devils  are  grill- 
sauce,  anchovy-sauce,  or  any  very  piquant  sauce.  Dry 
toasts  or  rusks  are  a  proper  accompaniment  to  deviled 
poultry,  &c.* 

551.  Deviled  Biscuit.  —  Heat  the  biscuits  before  the 
fire,  and  spread  over  them  the  same  ingredients,  with  a 
little  cayenne,  as  for  anchovy-toasts.  No.  554.  Many 
other  ingredients  are  used,  and  also  the  medicated  Zests 
sold  in  the  shops.  The  anchovy  powder,  No.  826,  answers 
well.  —  See  Le  Bon  Diahle^  National  Dishes^  and  Hors 
d^oguvres, 

*  The  following  receipt  for  the  preparation  of  devils  is  the  best  that 
has  yet  been  disclosed;  for  in  this  philosophic  and  amateur  department 
of  cookery  profound  mystery  has  hitherto  been  observed : — "  Mix  equal 
parts  of  common  salt,  pounded  cayenne,  and  currie-powder,  with  double 
the  quantity  of  mushroom  or  truffle  powder.  Dissect  a  brace  of  wood- 
cocks (if  under-roasted  so  much  the  better,)  split  the  heads,  divide  and 
subdivide  the  legs,  wings,  back,  &c.,  and  powder  all  the  pieces  with  the 
seasonings  well  mixed.  Bruise  the  trail  and  brains  with  the  yolk  of 
a  hard-boiled  egg,  a  very  little  pounded  mace,  the  grate  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  half  a  spoonful  of  soy.  Rub  these  together  till  they  become 
smooth,  and  add  a  table-spoonful  of  catsujp,  a  glass  of  Madeira,  and  the 
juice  of  two  Seville  oranges.  Throw  this  sauce,  along  with  the  birds, 
into  a  silver  stew-dish  to  be  heated  by  a  lamp.  Cover  it  close,  and 
keep  gently  simmering,  occasionally  stirring,  until  the  flesh  has  imbibed 
the  gr^tter  quantity  of  the  liquid.  When  you  have  reason  to  suppose 
it  is  completely  saturated,  throw  in  a  small  quantity  of  salad  oil,  and 
stirring  it  all  once  more  well  together,  serve  it  round  instantly.*'  The 
only  remaining  direction  the  writer  of  this  admirable  receipt  gives,  is, 
that  as  in  picking  tiie  bones  your  fingers  must  necessarily  be  impreg- 
nated with  the  flavour  of  the  devil^ou  must  be  careful,  in  licking  them, 
not  to  swallow  them  entirely.  Tnese  are  nearly  the  French  Tabiea 
Salmis, 


302  CHAP.  I. — ^MA.DE-DI8HE^« 

552.  Sandwiches, — These  are  a  convenient  and  economical, 
but,  at  the  same  time,  a  rather  suspicious  order  of  culinary 
preparations,  especially  in  hotels  and  public  gardens. 
Sandwiches  may  be  made  of  chicken,  ham,  or  tongue,  sliced 
or  grated ;  of  German  or  common  pork  sausage,  cold  salted 
rump,  anchovies,  shrimps,  sprats,  potted  cheese,  or  hard 
yolks  of  egg,  and  Parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese  pounded  with 
butter ;  also  of  forcemeat,  and  potted  meat  of  various  kinds, 
cold  poultry,  with  whatever  seasonings,  as  mustard,  cun^ie- 
powder,  &c.  &c.,  are  most  suitable  to  the  meat  of  which 
the  sandwich  is  made.  The  only  particular  directions 
that  can  be  given,  are,  to  have  them  fresh-made,  and  to 
cut  the  bread  in  neat  even  slices,  of  any  shapes  that  are 
fancied,  and  not  too  large  —  about  two  mouthf uls  —  nor 
thick,  and  to  butter  it  very  slightly.  Mustard  is  added 
where  suitable.  Twist  neatly  up  in  papar.  —  See  Sweet 
Sandwic/ies. 

553.  A  Cheese  Sandwich, — Take  two  parts  of  grated  Par- 
mesan or  Cheshire  cheese,  one  of  butter,  and  a  small  pro- 
portion of  made-mustard  ;  pound  them  in  a  mortar  ;  cover 
slices  of  bread  with  a  little  of  this,  and  over  it  lay  thin 
slices  of  ham,  or  any  cured  meat ;  cover  with  another  slice 
of  bread,  press  them  together,  and  cut  this  into  mouthf  uls, 
that  they  may  be  lifted  with  a  fork. — Obs.  An  anchovy 
may  be  pounded  with  the  mixture. 

554.  Anchovy  and  other  sawury  Toasts,  —  Cut  slices  of 
bread  as  for  sandwiches,  but  keep  them  larger,  and  fry 
them  nicely  in  fresh  butter.  Spread  them  with  anchovy- 
butter,  or  boned  anchovies  and  butter  freshly  pounded,  and 
lay  some  quartered  anchovies  above  all.  Brown  this,  if 
you  like,  with  a  salamander,  and  serve  very  hot.  Toa>sts. 
— The  old  French  cookery  possessed  an  endless  variety  of 
Toasts,  some  of  which  are  still  worthy  of  attention  ;  as 
Friar's  Toast,  which  was  exactly  our  modem  Anchovy 
Toast  sprinkled  over  with  chopped  parsley,  eschalot,  and 
capers.  Brittany  Toasts  were  made  of  chopped  salad- 
herbs,  with  salad-sauce.  Veal-kidney  Toasts  were 
rather  a  luscious  mess ;  the  minced  kidney,  seasoned  with 
eschalot  and  parsley,  and  mixed  with  egg  and  bread-crumbs, 

"'  in  fact  a  piquant  forcemeat  spread  on  a  toast,  which 
aked  and  served  hot.     Ham  Toasts  were  made  thus  : 


tlAMAKIKS — MACARONI.  d()3 

Mc€s  wei'e  soaked  to  freshen  thein^  in  the  first  place^ 
.lis  was  needful,  or  the  ham  was  minced*    After- 

.A-ds  they  were  soaked  in  a  stew-pan  ii\^  butter  and 
seasonings  for  a  few  minutes  ;  the  toasts  were  fried  in  the 
same  pan.  They  were  drained  and  dished  hot,  and  a  little 
gravy  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  poured  over  them. 
There  were  toasts  still  more  r€cherchi  made  of  fat  livers, 
skate-livers,  &c,  all  appropriate  to  the  rere-supper  of  old 
convivial  times,  hut  scarcely  admissible  into  the  cookery 
of  modern  regularly-constituted  families.  See  Hor9 
d^ceuvreSy  French  Cookery. 

66b,  RamaHns.  —  Take  equal  parts  of  sound  Cheshire 
and  double  Gloucester  cheese  and  of  fresh  butter,  and  hav- 
ing crumbled  or  grated  the  cheese,  beat  the  whole  to  a 
paste,  with  three  or  four  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  crumb 
of  a  new  Fi-ench  roll  previously  soaked  in  hot  milk.  Mix 
the  paste  with  the  whites  of  two  of  the  eggs  first  well 
whisked.  Season  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  pounded 
mace.  Fill  small  paper  pans,  or  very  small  saucers,  half 
full  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  the  ramakins  in  a  Dutch 
oven.  Serve  them  quite  hot,  which  is  peculiarly  requisite 
for  every  relishing  preparation  of  cheese. — Ohs*  This  batter 
is  also  served  over  boiled  macaroni ;  or  with  stewed  celery, 
asparagus,  cauliflower,  or  brocoli.  Stilton,  Parmesan,  or 
Gruyere  cheese  will  make  a  more  relishing  ramakin  where 
expense  is  not  considered. — See  Fonduy  French  Cookery^ 
Nos.  678  and  553. 

hhQ,  Pastry  Bamakins. — Take  any  bits  of  puff-paste 
that  remain  from  covering  pies,  tarts,  &c.  and  roll  them 
lightly  out.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  them  of  any  rich 
high-flavoured  kind.  Fold  the  paste  up  in  three,  or  only 
double  it,  but  sprinkle  it  repeatedly  with  grated  cheese. 
Shape  the  ramakins  with  a  paste-runner  to  any  shape, 
and  bake  and  serve  them  hot  on  a  napkin  or  as  relishes. 
This  is  almost  the  Brioche  au  frontage, 

657 •  To  dress  Macaroni  in  the  best  way,  —  Wash  it 
well,  and  boil  it  slowly  in  water,  till  it  is  tender  but  not 
soft, — ^from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  it,  and  add 
strong  well-flavoured  stock  to  it.  When  quite  tender, 
serve  with  white  pepper  and  cayenne,  and  when  soft,  but 


S64  CHAP.  I. — ^MADE-DISHES. 

not  broken,  put  it  into  the  dish  and  serve  over  it  in  layers, 
grated  Stilton,  Parmesan,  Gruyere,  or  other  piquant 
cheese,  in  the  proportions  of  eight  or  ten  ounces  to  half  a 
pound  of  macaroni.  Brown  it  in  a  Dutch  oven. — N.B.  The 
more  cheese,  the  more  piquant  is  the  macaroni.  The 
old  ewe-milk  cheese  of  the  Scottish  Border  we  have 
found  an  admirable  substitute  for  Gruyere.  This  dish  is 
fashionably  made  en  timballe.  The  timballe  shape  is 
lined  with  slices  of  bacon,  which  are  taken  off  before  the 
moulded  macaroni  in  paste  is  turned  out  and  served,  either 
with  a  brown  sauce,  or  with  gravy  in  the  dish. — Obs,  In- 
stead of  gravy-stock,  butter  is  often  put  to  it.  It  may  also 
be  covered  with  ramakin-batter,  or  boiled  with  milk  instead 
of  water,  or  stewed  in  white  ragout-sauce,  with  a 
little  chopped  lean  ham.  The  grated  cheese  may  also  be 
laid  in  layers  mixed  up  with  the  boiled  macaroni,  when 
having  dished  it,  strew  fine  bread-crumbs  lightly  over 
it,  and  pour  melted  butter  on  the  crumbs  through  a  col- 
ander. Brown  it  in  a  Dutch  oven,  as  above,  or  with  a 
salamander. — See  Macaroni  Pudding,  and  Sttghlio, 

558.  To  Pot  Cheese.  —  Cut  down  half  a  pound  of  good 
sound  mellow  Stilton,  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  ; 
add  a  little  mace  and  made-mustard.  Beat  this  well  in  a 
mortar,  and  pressing  it  close  in  a  potting-can,  cover  with 
clarified  butter  if  to  be  long  kept. — Ohs,  Currie  or  anchovy 
powder,  cayenne,  or  pepper,  may  all  be  added  to  the  cheese, 
and  we  consider  them  more  suitable  than  mace. 

559.  Toa^  and  Cheese.  —  Pare  the  crust  off  a  slice  of 
bread  cut  smooth,  and  of  about  a  half-inch  in  thickness. 
Toast  it,  but  do  not  let  it  wither  or  harden  in  the  toasting. 
Butter  and  cover  the  toast  with  slices  of  sound  fat  Stilton, 
Gouda,  or  Dunlop  cheese  of  the  first  quality.  Lay  the 
toasts  on  a  cheese-toaster,  and  notice  that  the  cheese 
is  equally  done.  Pepper,  salt,  and  made-mustard  are  ta 
be  added  at  discretion.  —  Ohs.  The  toasts  may  be  covered 
with  the  cheese  previously  grated  or  chopped,  which  will 
facilitate  the  equal  melting  of  it ;  or  the  cheese  may  be 
toasted  on  the  under  side  before  being  put  upon  the  bread. 

560.  Cheese-Fritters.  —  Pound  good  cheese  with  bread- 
crumbs, raw  yolks,  rasped  ham,  and  butter.     Make  this 


CHEESECAKES — SCOTCH  RABBIT,  &C.  SOS 

into  small  oval  balls ;  flatten,  dip  in  stiff  fritter-batter, 
and  f^  them. 

561.  Sofooufy  CheeteccJces. — Take  four  ounces  of  butter, 
four  of  good  grated  cheese,  four  beat  eggs,  a  little  cream, 
salt,  and  pepper ;  mix  and  bake  in  paste  cases. 

562.  Braised  Cheese, — Melt  some  slices  of  fat  mild  cheese 
in  a  snuill  dish  over  a  lamp  or  over  steam.  Add  butter 
and  pepper,  and  mustard  if  chosen.  Have  ready  a  soft 
toast  in  a  hot-water  dish  or  cheese-dish  with  a  hot-water 
reservoir,  and  spread  the  cheese  on  the  toast. 

563.  Welsh  Chllimaufiy,  -—  Mix  well,  in  a  mortar, 
cheese  with  butter,  mustard,  wine,  flavoured  vinegar,  or 
any  ingredient  admired,  ad  lihitum, ' 

564.  A  Scotch  Rabbit^-Cuiy  toast  and  butter  the  bread, 
as  in  No.  559,  and  keep  it  hot.  Grate  down  mellow  Stil- 
ton, Gouda,  Cheshire,  or  good  Dunlop  cheese  ;  and,  if  not 
fat,  put  to  it  some  bits  of  fresh  butter.  Put  this  into  a 
cheese-toaster  which  has  a  hot-water  reservoir,  and  add  to 
to  it  a  glassful  of  well-flavoured  brown-stout  porter,  a  large 
tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard,  and  pepper  (very  finely 
ground)  to  taste.  Stir  the  mixture  till  it  is  completely 
dissolved,  brown  it,  and  then  filling  the  reservoir  with 
boiling  water,  serve  the  cheese  with  the  hot,  dry,  or  buttered 
toasts  on  a  separate  dish.  —  Obs»  This  is  one  of  the  best 
plain  preparations  of  the  kind  that  we  are  acquainted  with. 
Some  gourmands  use  red  wine  instead  of  porter ;  but  the 
latter  liquor  is  much  better  adapted  to  the  flavour  of 
cheese.  Others  use  a  proportion  of  soft  putrid  cheese,  or 
the  whole  of  it  in  that  state.  This  b,  of  course,  a  matter  of 
taste  beyond  the  jurisdiction  of  any  culinary  dictator.  To 
dip  the  toasts  in  hot  porter  makes  another  viuriety  in  this  pre- 
paration.— Rasped  Parmesan  is  laigely  used  by  Italian 
and  French  cooks  to  flavour  ragouts  and  soups,  and  many 
dishes  of  vegetables.  It  is  seldomer  employed  in  our  in- 
sular cookery  than  it  should  be. 

565.  Cheese  to  serve  as  a  Relish. — Grate  three  ounces 
of  good  mellow  cheese,  and  the  same  quantity  of  bread. 
Mix  these  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  the  beat  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  some  made-mustard,  pepper,  and  salt.  Mash  in  a 
mortar,  and  spread  this  paste  on  small  toasts,  which  cut  as 


066  CHAP.  I. — XADB-DI8RES* 

sippets.    Toast,  brown,  and  trim  these,  and  serve  them 
very  hot.* 

DIFFERENT  WATS  OF  DRESSING  EGGS  AND  OMELETS. 

666.  To  Poach  Eggs, — Boil  and  skim  spring- water.  Put 
a  little  vinegar  to  it.  Break  the  eggs  (which  should  be 
at  least  two  days  laid)  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  that  the 
meat  may  slide  gently  out  without  breaking.  Take  off  the 
stew-pan,and  slide  them  gently  into  the  boiling  water,  taking 
care  to  break  their  fall.  Turn  the  shell  above  the  e^g  asyou 
dip  it  into  the  water  to  gather  in  all  the  white.  Let  the 
saucepan  stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  the  white  is  set, 
and  then  put  it  on  the  fire  for  two  minutes.  Take  up  the 
eggs  with  a  slice ;  trim  away  the  broken  parts  of  the 
white,  and  serve  them  on  toasts,  slices  of  cold  meat,  broiled 
pork  sausages,  spinage,  brocoli,  sorrel;  also  with  veal- 
gravy. — Obs,  Poached  eggs  may  be  served  with  a  sauce  of  • 
grated  ham,  shred  onions,  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt,  stewed 
for  ten  minutes  in  weak  stock.  When  ready,  thicken 
and  strain  the  sauce,  and  when  it  is  a  little  cool,  cover  the 
eggs  with  it.  They  may  be  poached  in  butter  or  stock, 
and  neatly  served  in  silver  table-spoons. 

567.  To  fry  Eggs. — Carefully  break  the  eggs  into  a 
small  frying-pan,  in  which  is  butter,  and  have  ready  some 

*  Toasted  Cheese.  —  This  academic,  histrionic,  and  poetical  -prepara- 
tion has  produced  a  good  deal  of  discussion  in  its  day.  The  Welsh 
BcAbit,  (by  the  way,  we  are  inclined  to  think  with  a  learned  friend, 
that  the  true  reading  is  Welsh  Bare  Bit,)  has  ever  been  a  favourite 
morsel  with  those  gentlemen  who  think  a  second  supper  fairly  worth 
the  other  three  regularly  administered  meals  of  the  day.  The  twenty- 
eighth  maxim  of  0*Dohbrty  is  wholly  dedicated  to  this  tasteful  subject, 
and  his  culinary  opinions  are  worthy  of  profound  attention.  "  It  is  the 
cant  of  the  day,*'  quoth  Sir  Morgan,  **  to  say  that  a  Welsh  Rabbit  is 
heavy  eating.  I  know  this, — but  did  I  ever  feel  it  in  my  own  case  ? 
— Certainly  not.  I  like  it  best  in  the  genuine  Welsh  way,  however ; 
— that  is,  tne  toasted  bread  buttered  on  both  sides  profusely,  then  a 
layer  of  cold  roast  beef,  with  mustard  and  horseradish,  and  then  on  the 
top  of  all  a  superstratum  of  Cheshire  thoroughly  saturated  while  in  the 
process  of  toasting  with  ctvrw,  or,  in  its  abs^ice,  porter — genuine  porter 
— ^black  pepper,  and  eschalot- vinegar.  I  peril  myself  upon  the  assertion, 
that  this  is  not  a  heay^  supper  for  a  man  who  has  been  busy  all  day  till 
dinner  in  reading,  writing,  walking,  or  riding, — who  has  occupied  him- 
self between  dinner  and  supper  in  the  discussion  of  a  bottle  or  two  of 
sound  wine,  or  any  equivalent,  and  who  proposes  to  swallow  at  least 
three  tumblers  of  something  hot  ere  he  resigns  himself  to  the  embrace 
of  Somnus.  With  these  provisoes,  I  recommend  toasted  cheese  for 
supper." 


EGOS.  367 

butter  fried  in  another  pan  to  pour  over  them.     Fry  them 
at  a  good  distance  from  the  fire. — See  No.  61. 

568.  Mushroom  and  Egg  Dish, — Slice,  fry,  and  drain 
some  large  onions,  and  a  few  button-mushrooms.  Slice 
hard-boiled  eggs,  the  yolks  and  white  separately,  and 
either  simmer  the  whole  in  fresh  butter  with  pepper,  salt, 
mustard,  and  eschalot-vinegar,  or  in  good  gravy.  Put  in 
the  sliced  yolks  last,  and  only  let  them  remain  about  a 
minute.  Serve  very  hot,  and  garnish  with  curled  parsley 
and  a  few  light  rings  of  the  white  of  the  eggs. 

569.  Swiss  Eggs, — Mix  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese 
and  two  of  melted  butter  with  six  beat  eggs.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  shred  parsley,  and  young  onions.  Cook  the 
mixture  lightly  in  the  frying-pan.  Brown  the  upper 
side  with  a  salamander,  and  serve  very  hot. 

570.  To  Butter  Eggs, — Beat  six  eggs  well  up  in  a 
basin.  Set  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  to  melt  in  another 
basin  placed  in  boiling  water.  Stir  the  eggs  and  butter 
together ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  finely-minced  onion, 
if  it  is  liked.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  small  saucepan, 
and  toss  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  seconds,  then  pour  it 
into  a  large  basin ;  skink  the  mi!sture  backwards  and 
forwards,  setting  it  on  the  fire  occasionally,  but  keeping 
it  constantly  briskly  agitated  till  ready.  Serve  on  toasts, 
or  as  an  accompaniment  to  salt  fish,  or  red  herrings ;  or 
serve  over  a  toast,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  brocoli. 

571.  Scotch  Eggs, — Five  eggs  make  a  dish.  Boil  them 
hard  as  for  salad.  Peel  and  dip  them  in  beat  e^^,  and 
cover  them  with  a  forcemeat  made  of  grated  ham,  chopped 
anchovy,  crumbs,  mixed  spices,  &c.  Fry  them  nicely  in 
good  clarified  dripping,  and  serve  them  with  a  gravy  sauce 
separately. — Ohs,  Eggs  may  be  boiled  half-hard,  wrapped 
in  pufi^-paste,  dipped  in  e^^  and  crumbs,  fried  and  served 
as  a  comer-dish  or  supper-dish.  Eggs  for  a  small  dish  may 
be  boiled  hard,  sliced,  and  served  in  a  white  ragout-sauce, 
dishing  them  with  a  whole  yolk  in  the  middle.  Curled 
slips  of  bacon,  toasted  sippets,  fried  parsley,  mushrooms, 
&c.,  form  appropriate  accompaniments  and  gamishings  to 
dishes  of  eggs. — See  French  Cookery  for  other  Preparations 
of  Eggs, 


368  CHAP.  I. — ^MADE-DISHES. 

672.  An  Omelet. — ^Beat  up  six  eggs  with  salt,  pepper  in 
fine  powder,  a  large  spoonful  of  parsley  very  finely  shred, 
half  the  quantity  of  chives  or  green  onions,  a  small  bit  of 
eschalot,  if  liked,  some  grated  ham  or  tongue ;  or  if  for 
maiffre  days,  to  which  this  dish  is  considered  appro- 
priate, lobster-meat,  the  soft  part  of  oysters,  shrimps,  or 
grated  cheese,  may  be  used.  Let  the  several  things  be 
very  finely  minced  or  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  well 
mixed  with  the  batter,  adding  a  large  spoonful  of  flour 
and  some  bits  of  butter.  Fry  the  omelet  in  plenty  of 
very  hot  butter  in  a  nicely-cleaned  small  frying-pan,  stir- 
ring it  constantly  with  a  spoon  till  it  firm,  and  then  lift- 
ing the  edges  with  a  knife,  that  the  butter  may  get  below. 
It  must  not  be  over -dressed,  or  it  will  get  tough  and  dry. 
Carefully  turn  the  omelet,  by  placing  a  plate  over  it,  and 
return  it  into  the  frying-pan  to  brown  on  the  other  side  : 
or,  without  turning,  brown  with  a  salamander,  or  hold  the 
pan  before  the  fire  till  the  raw  is  taken  ofi^  the  upper  side  : — 
double  it,  trim,  and  serve  very  hot. — Obs,  A  more  delicate 
but  less  relishing  omelet  may  be  made  by  seasoning  the 
batt-er  with  lemon-peel,  mace,  nutmeg,  &c.,  and  using 
neither  meat  nor  fish.  Some  cooks  put  a  little  pulped 
apple,  or  mashed  potato,  to  omelets ;  others  flavour  them 
with  tarragon  and  mushroom-powder.  Omelets  may  have 
grated  ham,  minced  roast-veal,  kidney,  or  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  sprinkled  over  them.  In  the  old  French  cookery, 
omelets  were  garnished  with  anchovies,  fat  livers,  red 
herrings,  and  all  the  pungent  herbs  used  for  toasts.  To  a 
simple  omelet,  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon  or  Seville  orange  is 
an  improvement.  Siveet  omelets  are  made  by  rolling 
up  apricot  jam,  currant-jelly,  or  any  suitable  preserved 
sweetmeat,  in  fine  pancakes. — See  Nos.  879  and  958. 

573.  Asparagus  and  Eggs. — ^Beat  three  or  four  eggs  well 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  some  dressed  asparagus  into 
pieces  the  size  of  peas,  and  stir  them  into  the  eggs.  Melt 
two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  small  stew-pan,  and,  pouring  in 
the  mixture,  stir  it  till  it  thicken,  and  serve  it  hot  on  a 
toast.  —  Ohs.  Eggs  i&ay  be  made  into  a  pie,  using  mince- 
pie  meat  with  the  hard-boiled  chopped  eggs.  They  may 
be  served  as  a  vol-au-vent,  or  with  sippets,  &c.     Eggs 


TOL-AU-VENT ^BREAD-BORDERS.  369 

may  be  filled  with  a  relishing  forcemeat,  using  the  hard 
yolks  as  a  part  of  the /arce. — See  No.  61. 


574.  Vol'au~vent» — With  a  paste-runner  cut  puflF-paste 
which  has  got  six  turns  and  been  doubled,  into  the  shape 
of  the  dish  in  which  the  vol^au-vent  is  to  be  served.  Lay 
it  on  a  baking-tin  with  a  ledge,  and  ornament  and  brush 
it  over  with  yolk  of  eggs.  Open  it  lightly  all  round,  with 
the  point  of  a  knife,  leaving  an  edge,  and  when  baked  in 
a  sharp  oven,  open  the  place  marked,  without  breaking 
the  top ;  scrape  out  all  the  inside  paste,  fill  with  any  white 
fricassee,  as  chickens,  rabbits,  sweetbreads,  or  with  scollops 
of  turbot  or  cod,  fillets  of  soles,  &c.,  and  put  on  the  top. — 
Ohs.  One  main  use  of  a  vol-au-vent  is,  that  it  gives  a 
handsome  form  to  things  left  cold,  which  could  not  other- 
wise make  part  of  an  entertainment  for  company.  For 
second  courses  vol-au-vents  may  be  fancifully  marked 
round  the  border  in  a  wreath  of  leaves,  and  have  sweet* 
meats  or  delicate  dressed  vegetables  served  in  them. 

575.  Edgings  to  Dishes.  —  These  are  made  (to  serve 
made-dishes  in)  of  bread,  rice,  mashed  potato,  hard-boiled 
eggs,  sliced  beet,  lemon,  &c.,  and  ornamented  pastry 
edgings ;  and  for  sweet  dishes,  served  in  glass  or  china,  of 
small  drop-biscuit,  caramelled  fruit,  nuts,  or  almonds,  stuck 
on  with  candied  sugar.  These  edgings^  and  casseroleSy 
croustades^  casseroletteSy  and  other  garnitures,  are  most 
suitable  to  French  dishes. 

576.  Bread-Borders.  —  Take  firm  stale  bread,  cut  the 
crumb  into  slices  of  the  thickness  of  the  blade  of  a  knife  ; 
stamp  those  slices  into  any  form  ;  heat  pot-top  oil  in  a  stew- 
pan,  and  put  in  the  sippets ;  make  them  both  white  and 
brown ;  when  they  are  very  dry,  drain  them.  Make  white 
paper  cases,  and  put  them  up  separately,  according  to  their 
form  and  colour ;  when  they  are  wanted  to  garnish  dishes, 
pierce  the  end  of  an  egg,  let  a  little  of  the  white  out,  and 
beat  it  with  the  blade  of  a  knife  ;  mix  a  little  flour ;  heat 
your  dish  a  little  ;  dip  one  side  of  the  sippet  into  the  beaten 
paste,  aUd  stick  it  on  the  dish ;  in  this  manner  continue 
till  the  border  is  finished.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
heat  the  dish  too  much,  or  the  sippet  will  not  adhere. 

2a 


370  CHAP.  I, — llADX-DISHES* 

577.  Rice  Coiseroley  in  the  French  style, — Anglo-French 
cooks  often  serre  several  dishes  for  which  paste  is  used  in 
a  crust  made  of  boiled  rice,  or  en  casserole.  There  are 
sweet  and  savoury  casseroles,  and  the  rice  must  be  seasoned 
accordingly.  Cold  as  well  as  undressed  things  may  be 
thus  served.  Fowls,  chicken,  lamb's  and  sheep's  trotters, 
veal  and  lamb  rumps,  palates,  iillets  of  turbot,  soles,  &c., 
all  previously  cooked,  may  be  served  en  auserohy  which  is 
both  a  handsome  and  an  unexpensive  mode.  Boil  slowly 
one  or  two  pounds  of  rice,  as  you  require.  Put  to  it  when 
quite  soft  and  dry,  some  consemmSy  if  wanted  for  a  savoury 
dish,  and  (at  first)  two  onions  and  salt.  Water,  about  a 
quart  to  the  pound  of  rice.  When  you  feel  it  quite  soft, 
let  it  cool,  and  then  work  it  well  with  a  wooden  spo(m  into 
a  paste.  Cover  a  baking  tin  with  this  paste,  laid  four 
inches  high  by  seven  wide  for  an  ordinary  casserole.  Make 
the  outside  very  smooth ;  carve  it  in  bold  relief ;  and  mark 
on  the  top  a  cover,  about  four  inches  in  diameter.  Make 
round  this  cover  an  incision  pretty  deep ;  pour  clarified 
butter  over  the  whole,  and  bake  it  on  a  trivet  about  an 
hour,  or  till  it  become  a  fine  yeUow.  Take  o£P  the  cover, 
now  become  an  upper  crust ;  scoop  out  the  pulp  Jbelow, 
leaving  the  bottom  thin ;  fill  the  hollow,  or  centre  of  the 
casserole  with  your  prepared  ragout,  of  whatever  kind. 
Pour  in  a  little  of  some  appropriate  sauce ;  put  on  the  cover, 
and  before  serving  glaze  the  prominent  parts  of  omar 
mental  design :  the  casseroles  are  easier  made  in  moulds. 

578.  An  English  CasseroUy  or  rice  border  for  made-dishes, 
is  thus  prepared  : — Soak  and  stew  the  rice  with  salt  and  a 
blade  of  mace.  If  wanted  very  rich,  put  butter  and  the 
beat  yolks  of  eggs  to  it  when,  ready*  Place  it  neatly  on 
the  dish  as  an  edging  three  inches  high  ;  glaze  with  ^^^ 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  colour  before  heaping  the  currie, 
hash,  pilau,  or  whatever  the  dish  is,  in  the  middle  of  it. 

579.  CroustadeSy  or  Bread  prepared  in  which  to  serve 
RagoutSy  Sfc. — Loaves  are  baked  in  e^  or  heart-shaped 
moulds  about  from  six  to  eight  inches  long.  Scoop  out 
the  crumb ;  fry  these  crusts  or  cases  in  butter  or  top-fat ; 
drain,  dry,  and  line  them  with  gratiuy  and  fill  with  any 
fresh  or  re-dressed  ragout.      They  are  made  small  also. 


FAIRT  BUTTSR.  871 

Moulds  of  this  kind  are  made  in  Scotland  of  mashed,  pota- 
toes, (waxy  ones  are  best,  or  a  little  flour  may  be  added  to 
them.)  These  potato  crtMts  may  be  made  as  Westphalia 
loaves.  No,  225,  and  filled  with  any  mince,  and  piled  up 
in  the  dish  pyramidically.  What  we  call  rolls  and  loaves 
are  the  same  as  crousteides* 

580.  Fairy  Butter.  —  To  six  hard-boiled  yolks  add  a 
half-pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  the  same  weight  of  sifted 
sugar.  Pound  this  with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  orange* 
flower  water  to  keep  it  from  oiling,  and  squirt  it,  or  rub 
it  through  a  tightened  cheese-cloth,  or  sieve.  It  is  served 
over  ham  and  bread  for  breakfast,  and  for  garnishing  ; 
or  by  itself,  as  a  little  dish  garnished  with  savoury  jelly. 
—See  also  Nos.  81, 86,  262,  385,  and  1201. 

*«*  We  most  at  the  close,  as  at  the  begimung  of  this  Chapter^ 
again  state,  that  if  it  be  impossible  to  teach  the  simplest  processes 
of  plain  cookery  by  written  directions,  to  the  uninitiated,  or  im- 
perfectly instnicted,  it  is  not  less  so  to  teach  the  business  of  the 
Pastry-cook.  Volrom-^tewtSy  for  example,  of  whatever  size,  tim' 
hoieiy  or  cmteroUi  of  rice,  and  a  long  list  of  such  showy  and 
tasteM  articles,  must  be  seen  to  be  properly  understood  jand  also 
require  both  aptitude  to  learn,  and  the  long  praotiee  which  alone 
can  give  the  requisite  manual  dexterity. 


CHAPTER  II. 
A  COMPENDIUM  OF  FRENCH  COOKERY, 

REVISED  AND  ENLARGED; 

OONSianNG  OF 

BECEIPTS  FOB  SOME  OF  THE  MOST  APPROVED  FRENCH  MADE- 
DISHES,  SOUPS,  FISH,  SAUCES,  AND  PASTRY. 

La  gloire  de  la  cuisine  Franijaise  z«mplit  IHrniven  entier  1 

Le  Gattronome  Franfoig, 

Muse,  sing  the  man  tiiat  did  to  Paris  go. 

That  he  might  taste  their  Souja,  and  Sauces  know. 

Dr.  Kino. 

It  will  save  much  trouble  to  admit  at  once,  that  the 
French  are  the  greatest  cooking  nation  on  earth.  They, 
at  least,  insist  that  it  is  so,  and  perhaps  they  may  be  in 
the  right.  This  much  is  certain,  that  in  France  alone  the 
culinary  art  is  regarded  as  an  exact  science,  of  which 


d72  CHAP.  n. ^FRENCH  COOKERY. 

every-  one  understands  something,  and  feels  pride  in  his 
knowledge.  French  cooks,  no  doubt,  like  French  miUiners 
and  perfumers,  like  to  magnify  their  art,  and,  like  other 
professional  people,  to  make  a  mighty  fuss  about  trifles, 
to  keep  up  a  show  of  doing  work.  How  grandly  that 
superlative  coxcomb,  M.  Car^me,  for  example,  speaks  of 
his  art !  Hear  him  on  the  decorations  of  the  aspic^  the 
aspics  d  la  modemey  and  his  own  designs  for  them  :  — 
^*  These  designs,"  he  says,  ^*  belong  to  the  highest  walk  of 
art,  and  attest  our  modem  taste.  Whilst  inferior  cooks 
compose  their  decorations  with  an  infinity  of  trifling 
details,  signifying  nothing,  mingling  five  or  six  colours  to 
form  a  single  decoration,  which  thus  becomes  truly  insup^ 
portable," — ^it  is  a  good  rule  of  Cardme  and  his  modern 
brotherhood  to  have  decorations  of  ttoo  colours  only. 
Both  French  millinery  and  cookery  are  greatly  refined  in 
colouring^  and  really  in  advance  of  the  rest  of  £urope.  It 
must  also  be  allowed  that  the  various  branches  of  economy 
connected  with  the  kitchen  are  well  understood ;  and  that  the 
art  of  making  the  most  and  best  of  every  thing  is  diligently 
practised.  The  causes  of  the  acknowledged  superiority  of 
the  French  it  is  not  our  present  business  to  investigate ; 
our  concern  being  only  with  those  matters  in  which  this 
confessed  excellence  consists.  But  there  is  one  cause  of 
superiority  so  obvious,  that  it  must  be  mentioned, — ^namely, 
the  extreme  patience  and  anxiety  with  which  the  most 
restless  people  in  the  world,  upon  all  other  occasions,  attend 
to  culinary  processes.  A  French  cook  will  give  a  half- 
day  to  the  deliberate  cookery  of  a  dish,  which  an  English 
one  would  toss  off  in  a  half-hour ;  and  will  watch  the 
first  popple  of  his  stew-pan  as  if  it  were  the  last  pulse  of 
life.  Any  one  who  has  seen  a  French  cook  attending  to 
the  vehutiy  preparing  the  Mayonnaise^  decorating  a  salad, 
or  pounding  quenelles^  as  if  life  and  death  depended  on  his 
function,  may  have  some  idea  of  the  importance  of  his 
art  in  his  own  estimation.  Another  evident  cause  of 
French  superiority,  is  the  comparative  plenty  of  game, 
fine  herbs,  and  vegetables,  muslu-ooms,  truffles,  &c, ;  the 
cheapness  of  poultry,  and  of  wines  of  high  flavour ;  and  also, 
paradoxical  as  it  may  seem,  the  scarcity  of  fuel  in  France. 
So  scientifically  is  the  culinary  art  understood  by  our 


FBEMGH  OOOKSRT.  S73 

neighbours^  that  a  French  kitchen,  previous  to  a  grand 
dinner,  is  a  perfect  arsenal  of  eonsomm^ygraitiesjglagey  nmXy 
and  mixed  tpiees,  all  prepared  in  the  best,  and  generally  in 
the  most  economical  manner ;  for,  however  it  may  be  in  this 
country  with  those  ministers  of  vanity  imported  to  English 
kitchens  by  Inxnry  and  ostentation,  economy,  we  say  it 
again,  is  thoroughly  understood  in  France.  Though  ob- 
jections are  brought  to  the  high  relish  of  French  dishes, 
we  will  venture  to  affirm,  that  the  receipts  given  in  our 
English  Cookery  Books,  with  their  heterogeneous  mixture 
of  a  thousand  and  one  ingredients,  are  not  only  more  ex- 
pensive, but  lesa  simple  than  those  of  Beauvilliers  or 
Balaire.  We  speak  not  of  Cardme :  he  was  the  cook  of 
emperors  .and  millionaires.  But  if  bonne  ekere  is  so  well 
understood  by  our  neighbours,  b&n  goiAy  in  all  matters  con- 
nected with  the  table,  or  rather  with  the  f^  is  their  un- 
doubted forte.  The  French  are  allowed  to  excel  in  soups 
and  entrieSy  and  in  the  refined  preparation  of  their  sauces. 
They  have  also  many  more  and  hitler  ways  of  dressing 
vegetables  than  are  known  to  us,  by  whidi  they  can,  at 
small  expense,  add  to  the  variety,  fulness,  and  good  ap- 
pearance of  a  table.  Their  modes  of  cookery,  by  braisinffy 
dressing  in  a  blanc,  or  in  a  poeU,  deserve  the  serious  atten- 
tion^of  every  lover  of  good  cheer.  The  French  have  also 
ever  been  pre-eminent  as  a  larding  nation,  and  as  skilful 
in  gl<iee.  Now,  though  we  seldom  prize  varnished  meat, 
nor  over  admire  larding^  where  meat  is  good,  we  do  highly 
value  that  union  of  economy  with  bon  gouty  which  enables 
the  French  to  turn  every  cold  left  dish  to  good  account, 
in  the  well-known  elegant  varieties  of  timbaleSy  scallops, 
vol-aurwnts ;  or  by  dressing  in  casserole,  or  as  croquets, 
&c.  This  branch  of  French  cookery  is  worth  the  atten- 
tion of  every  refined  economist ;  for  though  one,  for  ex- 
ample, does  not  go  to  the  expense  of  serving  a  piece  of  cold 
turbot  as  a  dressed  salad  or  a  vol-ati-vent,  it  is  excellent 
to  know  how  the  cold  fish  is  best  prepared  for  serving  in  a 
plainer  style. 

There  is  already  much  French  •  cookery  blended  with 
our  own,  and  of  late  we  are  taking  to  the  names  as  well 
as  to  the  dishes.  Every  modem  cook  who  would  thoroughly 
know  her  art  must  study  the  best  French  dishes,  as  modi-. 


374  CHAP.  n.-*FBENCH  COOKERY. 

fied  by  English  taste  and  usage ;  and  to  do  this  she  must 
be  acquainted  with  the  leading  features  of  the  French 
system.  In  this  Chapter,  therefore,  besides  a  copious 
selection  of  receipts  for  the  best  French  dishes,  we  have 
giren  the  EUments  of  French  cookery  ;  and  throughout 
our  worky  wherever  the  French  mode  seemed  to  deserve 
approbation  in  any  particular  receipt,  the  variation  has 
been  -carefally  pointed  out  to  the  attention  of  the  cook. 
This  we  take  leave  to  consider  a  feature  as  beautiful  as  it 
is  original  in  The  Cleikum  Institutes  of  Modebn  Anglo- 
French  Cookery.  There  are,  in  fact,  ten  times  more 
French  receipts  intermixed  with  our  English  ones  than  we 
give  in  the  following  Compendium. 

It  has  already  been  mentioned  that  the  Grand  Divtsions 
of  a  French  dinner  are,  the  First  Course,  or  entrSeSy  and 
the  Second  Course,  or  entremits.  The  entries  are  made* 
dUheSy  generally  or  nearly  universally  served  with  sauce 
poured  over  or  about  them.  The  entremitg  are  sweet 
dishes ;  all  sorts  of  pastry,  creams,  moulded  jellies ;  iced 
puddings ;  cakes  with  preserved  fruits ;  pancakes ;  sweet 
omelets,  &c.  The  glory  of  a  French  dinner — ^to  the  cook 
at  least— consists  principally  in  the  number  and  excellence 
of  the  entries  and  entremets  ;  though  the  soups,  roasts, 
fish,  side-dishes  or  JtankSy  and  removes,  are  not  overlooked. 
At  a  small  but  reeherehS  dinner,  while  a  rump-steak 
stewed,  or  a  piece  of  salmon — ^both  it  la  something  or 
other — ^fiUs  the  centre  of  the  t-able,  and  constitutes  the 
solid  part,  there  are  arranged  round  it  four  highly-dressed 
entries  ;  or,  if  economy  is  studied,  two  entries,  and  two 
dishes  of  vegetables  dressed.  We  give  two  examples  by 
jM.  Soyer : — 

Bill  of  Fare  for  a  Dinner  for  a  party  of  two  or  three 
/a^^.--Centre,  fillets  of  soles  d  la  Hollandaise^  and 
round  this,  two  lamb  cutlets,  with  peas  ;  a  fillet  of  game, 
with  a  purie  of  mushrooms ;  two  quenelles  of  rabbits 
with  truffles  ;  and  half  a  partridge  in  Salmi. 

A  plainer  Bill  of  Fare  for  a  gentleman  or  *«?o.— In 
the  centre  a  slice  of  cod  and  oyster-sauce  round  it. — 1st, 
Two  mutton  cutlets,^  la  Beforme;  2d,  Four  Jerusalem 
artichokes,  d  la  Bechamel;  3d,  Fried  potatoes ;  4th,  Minced 
beef,  with  saiice  piquante. 


if 


ANGLO-TRENCH  DINNERS.  ^^ 

Recherche  Bill  of  Fare  for  a  Btnall  Angh-^^^^^^ 
T>in7ter. — Centre,  a  slice  of  salmon,  en  matelote,  Ent^^^^  _ 
1st,  Two  fillets  of  grouse,  <i  la  Bohemienne;  2d,  T-^v 
escalopes  of  beef,  with  poivrade  sauce  ;  3d,  Two  croq^ixe-j 
of  chicken,  with  a  purie  of  fat  livers ;  4th,  A  veal  sweel 
bread,  €t  la  F^nanciire, 

For    larger   Anglo-French  dinners^  with  four  entr*^^, 

Miay   be  served    soup— the  indispensable  potage — ^fisU.     ^ 

some  kind,  (dressed  with  a  particular  sauce  having^  ^  ;j|^ 

name,)  and  remoi^eB,  which  consist  of  all  manner  of  ron^^, 

fries,  and  stews  ;  a  loin  of  veal,  with  celery,  or  roots  ;  tx^c*1 

of  veal,  with  Brussels  sprouts;  breast  of  veal,  with  pea. 

calfs    head   dressed  in  several  ways,  or  as  turtle  5    1^^ 

tongues  stewed,  &c.     Turkey,  pheasants,  hare,  game,  ^^^ 

poultry,    &c.,   are  all  proper  removes  of  top  and  bot+3^ 

dishes.       Side-dishes,  or  flanks,  consist  of  such  thi^g.^^^ 

small  hams  ;  tongues  glazed  and  dressed  in  various  ^v^L      ^ 

loins  and  necks  of  veal,  mutton,  and  lamb,  in  many  ^^^  ^^ 

spring"  chickens,  with  asparagus  or  mushrooms ;  ducl^i?'^^ 

'With  green  peas ;  hot  small  pies,  of  several  sorts ;  casa^  ^^ 

of    rice,     of    various  kinds,  suitably  filled.     The    fl^^^^ 

ought  properly  to  consist  of  one  solid  dish ;  but  it  is^***^ 

times   convenient  to  dispense  with  so  many  solid  rv^^^^ 

and  in  this  case  some  of  the  hors  d^ceueres  may     ^^^^^ 

the   place  flanks  ought  to  take  in  a  fully  furnishfta^^^^l 

If  so,  the  pastry  cases  of  the  particular  article  ^^\^ 

.he    made     larger  than  when  kors  (fimivres  ^rt^^^^'t 

round  ;    and   xnore  of  them  should  be  placed  i        ^^Tiri 

W^e  shall    give   a  biU  for  a  French-EngUsh  di       ^^^  ^ 

ought  to  content  the  great  Cardme  himself,  ***J^^ip^  '^^l^« 

Top. Hare  soup,  li  /a /S'if.  G^«or^c.      ji^  ^ 

Turkey,  with  celery  sauce. — ^Epergue,    jSt7*^^®*''*^l\^- 

turhot,  with  lobster  sauce.   Two  Flanh%       n!?^*^-^V    ^ 

and   neck   of  lamb  d  la  Maitre  d' Ii6t^i^^^^KX3^     V^ 

for    the     comers. — Ist,  Tendrons  de  -,  ^oht'    ^ 

sauce  ;  2d,  Fillets  of  chickens,  with  cuo.^*^^  vdt\>  ^*' 

o£   grouse;  4tb,  Fillets  of  rabbit,  with  ^^V^,^,^^ 

and  vegetahles  on  the  side-table.  ^^hjcw!       *  ^ 

J^OT-  the  Second  Oourse.^Top.^^  ^y^        ^^^*^X3tia,    Si 

Sottam. ^Smaller  birds  of  some  gan^^  r^^^u.>v4. 


376  CHAP.  U. — PBENCH  COOKERT. 

Nesselrode  puddiDg;  and  a  pyramid  of  pastry.  Comer$»-^ 
Isty  Pine  apple  jelly ;  2d,  Bavarcue  of  apricots ;  dd,  Pears  in 
rice ;  4thy  Omelets  a  la  Cdeitine, — These  bills  may  be  mul- 
tiplied and  varied  ad  infinitum, — Besides  the  divisions  of 
dishes  we  have  enumerated,  the  French-Ejiglish  kitchen 
has  its  Fish,  its  Vegetable,  and  its  mwrnry  dishes.  In 
France  the  savoury  dishes  are  served  in  the  first  course 
only;  but  in  England  they  are,  at  convenience,  served 
wiUi  either  the  first  or  second  oourse ;  and  are  as  appro- 
priate to  luncheons,  collations,  d^eunerg  d  la  fourckettey 
and  suppers.  Large  savoury  dishes  consist  of  large  game 
pies  ;  cold  tongues  ornamented,  cold  hams  decorated, 
gaUmHnes  of  difi^erent  sorts,  cutlets  of  mutton,  veal,  or 
lamb,  dressed  in  various  ways  ;  cold  and  hot  savoury  pies ; 
salads  of  all  sorts  of  game,  and  of  lobsters ;  Mayonnaise 
or  gratins  of  lobster,  soles,  and  oysters ;  cold  salmon  and 
trout,  cooked  in  a  marinade ;  and  an  endless  number  of 
savoury  and  piquant  things  in  character  resembling  hors 
d'cBuvreSy  but  differing  in  size,  and  in  the  manner  of  serving. 
The  above  gives  a  general  idea  of  the  grand  divisions 
in  French  cookery.  In  that  cookery  there  is  much  that 
is  admirable,  and  in  the  cooks  themselves  much  that  is 
fantastical  or  positively  absurd.  Yet  a  French  salad  is 
a  very  good  preparation,  though  there  are  so  many  trifling, 
elaborate,  and  really  nonsensical  ways  employed  to 
decorate  it.  Fnglish  cooks  must  use  their  discretion  in 
adopting  those  finical  and  endless  fillets  of  egg  and 
anchovies,  and  bits  of  carved  carrot,  alternated  with 
morsels  of  beet,  which  the  simplicity  of  good  taste  dis- 
claims altogether  as  much  as  it  does  the  profusion  of  bows 
and  cocques  of  ribbon,  bits  of  fringe,  and  gimp,  a  button 
here,  and  a  tag  there,  of  French  milliners.  The  great 
Careme  seems  to  have  a  chaster  taste  in  garnitures  than 
most  of  his  contemporaries ;  yet  the  minister  of  pampered 
luxury  and  boundless  wealth,  of  the  Emperor  Alexander 
and  of  Rothschild,  cannot  be  the  best  model  or  guide  for 
the  cook  of  a  modest  English  family  of  middle  rank,  nor 
even  for  families  of  higher  station.  This  much  premised, 
and  these  useful  cautions  given,  we  proceed  to  our  com* 
pendious  exposition  of— the  Fbencs  Culinaky  System, 


8AUCB8.  877 

^1.  9IBST  STEP  in  French  Cookery^  stock  broth,  or 

Grand  Bouillon, 
This  foundation  of  soups  and  sauces  is  prepared 
exactly  as  directed  in  Nos.  69  and  60  of  this  work.  Study 
these  receipts ;  and  read  the  receipts  which  follow  them* 
French,  like  English  cooks,  have  two  basis  sauces, — tchite 
sauce  and  brown  eauce^  which  are  continually  in  requisi- 
tion in  the  kitchen.  We  give  the  most  choice  of  what  are 
considered  their  best  sauces,  where  these  are  not  already 
given  in  our  Chapter  Sauces  ;  from  being  now,  under  their 
French  names,  familiarized  in  the  English  kitchen,  and 
in  frequent  use. 

682.  Grand  ConsommSy  the  second  step  in  systematic 
FreiMik  Cookery. — Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  shin  of  beef, 
any  &esh  trimmings  of  veal,  giblets,  poultry,  rabbits,  or 
game,  or  an  old  fowl,  or  brace  of  partridges.  Cut  these 
in  pieces  (except  such  as  you  wish  to  serve  as  dishes,)  and 
put  them  into  a  nice  clean  stew-pan  with  a  bunch  of 
parsley  and  young  onions,  and,  if  the  flavour  of  foreign 
cookery  is  admired,  a  clove  of  garlic.  Moisten  this  with 
fresh  stock,  and  let  the  meat  sweat  over  a  slow  fire  till 
heated  through.  Prick  it  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  to 
let  the  juices  flow  out,  and  add  as  much  boiling  stock  as 
will  suit  the  quantity  of  meat  you  have.  Skim  this,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  three  hours.  Let  it  settle.  Skim  and 
strain  it. — Ohs,  Consomme^  wholly  of  poultry  or  game, 
to  suit  dishes  of  fowl  or  game,  may  be  made  as  above 
without  using  beef.  For  such  a  gravy  a  little  ham  is  an 
improvement,  and  for  game  consomme,  a  partridge. 
Always  keep  in  mind,  that  the  flavour  of  the  consomm^ 
in  fine  cookery  should  not  be  at  variance  with  the  flavour 
of  the  dish  of  which  it  is  to  form  the  sauce.  For  example, 
if  intended  for  a  dish  dressed  with  mushrooms,  which 
always  have  a  very  peculiar  and  decided  flavour,  season 
the  consommS  with  mushrooms.  Grand  consommi  is  the 
second  important  step  in  French  cookery. 

683.  Blonde  de  Veau,  Veal  Gravy,  or  ConsommS,  — 
Heat  and  rub  a  stew-pan  hard  with  a  towel,  then  rub  it 
with  butter.  Lay  some  slices  of  lean  fresh  biacon  in  tht 
I)ottom  pf  it,  and  over  these  four  or  five  pounds  of  a  leg  of 


878  CHAP.  II. — ^FRBKCH  COOKERY. 

real  ont  into  slioes.  Moisten  with  a  ladieful  of  grand 
eamommiy  and  in  this  let  the  meat  dtoeaU  When  it  has 
catohed  a  golden  tinge  ov«r  a  rather  brisk  fiire,  prick  it 
with  a  sharp  knife  to  let  its  jnice  flow  out ;  let  it  sweat  for 
twenty  minutes  more  ;  when  reduced  to  a  jelly  of  a  topaz 
colour,  moisten  it  with  boiling  broth  (Grand  Bouillon^ 
No*  69,)  and  season  with  onions,  parsley,  and  mushrooms. 
Let  this  boil  for  an  hour,  and  strain  it  for  use. 

684.  Chrande  /$(CI«m^.—- See  Savoury  Brawn  Gravy ^  No. 
257. — it  is  the  same  thing. 

685.  Sauce  Espagnole. — ^Put  some  slices  of  ham,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  sauce  you  want,  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  double  the  quantity  of  sliced  yeal.  Moisten  these 
with  a  small  quantity  of  canfommS^  and  when  you  have 
drawn  a  strong  amber-coloured  glaze,  put  in  a  few  spoon- 
fuls more  to  float  this  ofl^.  [N.  B.  This  is  a  proper 
direction  for  detaching  all  glaze.]  Put  in  a  little  more 
amfommi  of  poultry  or  rabbits,  if  you  have  it ;  if  not^ 
some  strong  blonde  de  veau.  Season  with  a  little  parsley, 
green  onions,  a  half  bay-leaf,  two  sprigs  of  basil  and 
thyme,  and  two  cloves.  Simmer  for  a  half-hour,  skim 
and  strain.— OAff.  This  is  used  for  many  dishes  ;  it  is  a 
favourite  general  sauce ;  and,  when  wanted,  is  thickened 
with  roux^  and  seasoned  with  Madeira.  It  is  sometimes 
made  of  game,  especially  when  to  sauce  gune. 

686.  Velout^y  or  White  C»//t#.— This  is  a  very  deli- 
cate sauce,  made  sometimes  by  a  tedious  and  complicated 
process:  our  receipt  is  simple. — (See  No.  268.)---Sweat 
slowly  over  the  fire  some  slices  of  yery  nice  bacon, 
a  knuckle  of  very  white  veal,  any  trimmings  of  poultry 
or  game  you  hare,  the  white  part  of  two  carrots,  and  a 
bunch  of  young  onions.  When  you  have  got  all  the 
juices  out  of  it,  and  it  is  just  ready  to  catch,  moisten  it 
with  camammSy  and  season  with  a  small  fagot  of  sweet 
herbs.  When  all  the  strength  is  got  from  the  meat,  let 
the  gravy  settle,  skim  it,  strain  it,  and  reduce  by  quick 
boiling  till  it  is  nearly  a  jelly.  Meanwhile  mix  three 
spoonfuls  of  rice-flour  with  three  half-pints  of  cream ;  and 
when  this  boils,  pour  it  to  your  sauce,  and  boil  till  the 
vehuti  is  of  a  proper  consistence  and  very  smooth.    Work 


SAUCES.  379 

it  well,  oontinually  lifting  it  by  spoonfuls  and  letting  it 
fall,  and  do  this  till  it  is  cold,  to  prevent  a  skin  f^m 
gathering  on  it.  It  will  take  probably  more  flour ;  and 
butter  may  be  substituted  for  part  of  the  cream.  It  should 
be  smooth  as  Yelvet. 

587.  Sauce  d  la  Bechamel. — Take  as  much  wloutS  as 
-you  choose,  and  moisten  it  with  blonde  de  veau.  Mix 
with  this  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  or  what  quantity  you 
wish ;  flavour  with  seasonings  fit  for  the  dish  you  intend 
to  sauce.— -See  No.  279. 

588.  Brawn  Italian  Sauee^  or  Italienne  EoneaCy  a 
'fawmrUe  French  Sauce, — Take  two  spoonfuls  of  chopped 
mushrooms,  one  of  parsley,  half  a  one  of  eschalot,  half  a 
bay-leaf,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Moisten  with  Espor 
gnolcy  No.  585,  and  stew  the  vegetables.  Add  more  pepper, 
if  necessary,  and  the  quantity  of  ccneommi  required  to 
bring  the  sauce  to  the  proper  tiiickness. 

589.  Italian  White  Sauce,  or  Italienne  Blanehe,'^Vae 
velout^  instead  of  EspagnoU,  This  is  all  the  difierence 
between  the  white  and  brown  Italian  sauce. 

590.  Sauce  d,  la  MaUre  d^Hotd, — Melt  a  quarter-pound 
of  butter,  and  tdiicken  it  with  flour ;  add  in  the  stew-pan 
a  little  scalded  and  flnely-minoed  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
and  afterwards  a  squeeze  of  lemon.  Work  it  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon  to  make  it  smooth.  It  should  not  be 
made  till  wanted. 

Another  and  better  Mattre  d^ffoiel  Sauce. — To  two 
glassfuls  of  Bechamel,  put  one  of  white  stock.  Boil  this 
up,  and  stir  in  three  ounces  of  Mattre  d^ Hotel  butter  j 
when  the  butter  is  melted,  it  is  ready. 

590.'  Mattre  ^Hotd  Butter.  Mix  four  ounces  of  butter, 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  salt,  a  salt  spoon- 
ful of  white  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 

591.  Satu^  Hach4e. — Take  of  chopped  mushrooms  and 
gherkins  a  spoonful  each,  half  a  spoonful  of  scalded 
minced  parsley,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar.  Moisten 
with  a  little  conaommS,  or  with  brown  Italian  sauce. 

592.  French  Sauce  a  la  Tartare. — Mix  a  minced 
eschalot  and  a  few  leaves  of  chervil  and  tarragon  finely 
minced,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  made-mustard,  a  glass  of 


380  CHAP.  U.-PVBBNCH  COOKERr. 

vinegar,  and  a  sprinkling  of  oil.    Stir  this  constantly,  and, 
if  necessary,  thin  it  with  more  vinegar. 

593.  Sauce  Toum^e, — Moisten  some  white  roua  with 
consamm^  of  poultry  or  blonde  de  veau^  till  it  is  thin. 
Stew  in  it  a  few  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  onions. 
Skim  and  strain  the  sauce.— For  Roux^  see  p.  269. 

594.  Sauce  d  la  Pluche. — ^Blanch  and  drain  some  curl-i 
leafed  young  parsley  and  a  little  tarragon.  Put  to  this 
a  pint  of  velouti  and  a  half-pint  of  clear  consommi.  Stir 
in  a  bit  of  butter ;  work  it  well  to  make  it  smooth. — Obs, 
This  is  a  proper  French  sauce  for  Lamb's  stove. 

595.  Sauce  d  VAllemande^  or  German  Sauce.  — f 
Thicken  Sauce  T(mmie  with  the  beat  yolk  of  an  %^^  or 
two,  according  to  the  quantity.  This  sauce  is  extensively 
used  for  dressed  meat-dishes. 

595.*  To  make  a  liaison  d  la  Franqaisey  for  sauces  and 
vegetable  dishes :  beat  up  three  yolks  of  eggs  with  a 
quarter-pint  of  cream :  strain  through  a  tammy,  and  use 
to  thicken  and  whiten. 

596.  Sauce  d  la  Matelote  for  Msh, — Take  a  large  pint 
of  brown  roua  heated,  or  of  Etpagnole  ;  put  to  this  six 
onions  sliced  and  fried,  with  a  few  mushrooms,  (or  a  Utile 
mushroo^i-catsup,)  a  glass  of  red  wine,  and  a  little  of  the 
liquor  in  which  iJie  fish  was  boiled.  Give  it  a  seasoning 
of  parsley,  chives,  a  bay-leaf,  salt,  pepper,  allspice,  and  a 
clove.  Skink  it  up  (using  a  large  spoon,)  to  make  it 
blend  well.  Put  veal-gravy  to  it,  if  wanted  more  rich, 
or  a  good  piece  of  butter.  Strain  it,  and,  if  wanted  ex- 
ceedingly rich,  add  small  quenelles  (forcemeat-balls,) 
made  of  ingredients  proper  for  a  fish-dish,  glazed  onions 
and  mushrooms,  a  little  essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  squeeze 
of  lemon.  Serve  over  stewed  carp  or  trout-^ft*.  This 
sauce  is  exceedingly  admired  by  some  fish-eaters ;  indeed, 
fish  served  with  it  is  preferred  by  them  to  all  other  ways 
of  dressing  fish. 

69Q,^ Sauce Hollandaise  for  Fish, — Melt  a  quarter  pound 
of  butter,  into  which  stir  by  degrees  the  beat  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  white  pepper  and  salt  previously 
mixed  with  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Stir  diligently  to 
prevent  curdling,  and  add  more  melted  butter,  about  a 


SAtrcBS.  881 

half-pint :  half  this  quantity  of  eggs  and  batter  will  be 
enough  for  a  small  tureen. 

697.  Common  Sauce  a  la  Matelote. — Take  a  heaped 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley,  chiyes,  and  mushrooms,  and 
give  them  a  fry  in  butter.  Dredge  them  with  flour,  and 
moisten  with  consommi  till  suiSiciently  thin.  When 
stewed  a  few  minutes,  add  to  this  the  beat  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  take  care  they  do  not  curdle. — Ob8»  This  is  a 
cheap,  general,  useful  sauce  for  mutton-cutlets,  palates, 
and  sweetbreads,  as  well  as  for  fish.  Beauvillier's  Mate- 
lote is  made  of  Espagnoh  reduced,  small  onions  fried  in 
butter,  and  dressed  mushrooms  and  artichoke  bottoms.  It 
is  an  excellent  composition. 

598.  Eemouktde, — Pound  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  two 
eggs  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  sour  cream,  or  the  raw  yolk 
of  an  egg,  a  spoonful  of  made-mustard,  pepper,  salt, 
cayenne,  one  spoonful  of  vinegar  and  two  of  oil.  Bub 
this  salad-sauce  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready. 

599.  Salmi  Sauce  a  VEspa^noUy  a  Gofme  Sauce. — This 
is  a  sauce  of  high  relish.  Fry  in  butter,  over  a  slow  fire, 
three  eschalots  chopped,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  bunch  of 
parsley,  some  bits  of  ham,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Let 
them  just  catch,  and  moisten  them  with  Madeira.  Let  this 
reduce  a  little,  and  add  to  it  any  trimmings  of  the  game, 
and  a  little  Espiignole.  Let  this  stew  till  it  is  very  good  ; 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper ;  skim  and  strain  it.  This 
sauce  is  served  over  salmis  of  partridge,  duck,  &c. 

600.  Poivrade-Sauce, — Cut  six  ounces  of  ham  into  bits, 
and  fry  them  in  butter  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a 
few  young  onions  sliced,  a  clove  of  garUc,  a  bay-leaf,  a 
sprig  of  sweet  basil,  one  of  thyme,  and  two  cloves.  When 
well  fried  over  a  quick  fire,  add  pepper,  cayenne,  celery 
if  you  like,  and  a  little  tarragon  vinegar,  and  a  half- 
pint  of  consomme.  Let  it  simmer  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  for  a  good  while,  skim  it,  and  strain  it  through  a 
tammy  sieve. 

601.  Montpelier  Butter,  —  To  dressed  ravigote  (see 
below,)  add  six  hard  yolks,  a  spoonful  of  capers,  eight 
ounces  of  butter,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  seasoning  of  nutmeg, 
xnace,  allspice,  and  tarragon  vinegar,  and  a  glassful  of 


3QZ  CHAP.  II. — FBENCH  COOKERY. 

salad-oil.  Pound  for  eight  minutes,  then  gradually  add 
spinage-juice  to  green  the  butter.  Pound  till  very  smooth; 
set  in  ice  to  firm.  This  is  used  in  decorating  cold  dishes 
of  fisliy  meat,  or  salads,  along  with  ornamental  savoury 
jelly  or  aspic. 

602.  Dressed  Ba/cigote. — Take  a  suitable  quantity  of 
bumet,  chervil,  tarragon,  and  celery,  with  two  leaves  of 
balm.  Clean  and  boil  them.  Throw  them  into  fresh 
water,  and  drain  and  pound  them  with  a  little  salad-oil, 
and  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Bub  this,  when  sufficiently 
done  through  a  sieve. 

602.^  BavigaU  Butter, — ^Make  as  MaUre  cThotel  butter, 
substituting  two  spoonfuls  of  chopped  chervil  and  tarragon 
for  the  parsley,  aad  for  lemon-juice  a  spoonful  of  Chili 
vinegar. 

603.  Bavigote  Sauce  and  Cold  Ramgote.^^'MiBke  the 
sauce  exactly  as  directed  for  Maitre  d'hotelf  substituting 
Ravigote  butter  for  MaUre  d^hotel  butter.  These  are  useful 
sauoes  for  made-dishes  of  meat. 

Cold  Bamgote, — This  is  just  a  piquant  salad-sauce* 
Clean,  mince,  and  pound  the  above  herbs  with  a  few 
capers  and  a  boned  anchovy  or  two.  Pound  the  whole, 
well  with  a  raw  ^^g^  and  add  a  little  good  vinegar  to  keep 
it  from  clagging.    Rub  through  a  sieve.* 

604.  Mushroofn^Sauce^  Beaitvilliers'  Receipt. — Take 
two  handfuls  of  mushrooms,  wash  them  in  several  waters, 
rubbing  them  lightly;  put  them  into  a  drainer;  mince 
them  with  their  stalks ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the 
size  of  an  egg  of  butter ;  let  them  fall  over  a  slow  fire,  and, 
when  nearly  done,  moisten  them  with  two  skimming 
spoonfuls  of  eeloutii ;  let  them  simmer  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  more ;  rub  them  through  a  searce,  and  finish  with 
boiling  cream. — See  No.  267. 

605.  La  Ducelle^  Beauvilliers'  Receipt, — Mince  mush* 
rooms,  parsley,  young  onions  or  eschalots,  equal  quantities 

*  We  cannot  hare  naist  the  Ravigote  d  VUde,  on  which  that  cele- 
brated Chef  Taiides  himself  not  a  little.  Take  of  Chili  vineear,  cavice, 
catsup,  and  Reading  sance,  each  a  tea-spoonful ;  the  size  of  an  estg  of 
butter,  three  spoonrals  of  Bechamel,  a  little  cretoa,  salt,  pepper,  a  little 
popped  parsley  bhuu^ed,  and  cagrenne. 


of  each,  put  some  butter  into  a  stew-pan  with  as  much 
rasped  bacon  ;  put  them  upon  the  fire ;  season  with  salt^ 
pepper,  fine  spiceries,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  bay- 
leaf  ;  moisten  with  a  spoonful  of  lS%pctgnol6  or  veloiUi  ; 
let  it  simmer,  taking  care  to  stir  it :  when  sufficiently  done, 
finish  it  with  a  thickening  of  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten, 
which  must  not  boil ;  the  juice  of  a  lemon  is  not  necessary, 
but  may  be  added.  Put  it  into  a  dish,  and  use  it  for  any 
thing  that  is  served  en  papillote. 

606.  L'AspiCy  or  Savoury  Ornamental  Jelly, — ^Make 
the  jelly-stock  of  fowls,  knuckles  of  veal  and  ham,  rabbits, 
or  whatever  gelatinous  meat  is  convenient.  Flavour  it 
with  vin^ar,  in  which  a  laige  fagot  of  aromatic  herbs 
has  been  boiled,  as  basil,  bumet,  tarragon,  and  chervil* 
Season  with  aron&atic  spicea.  Strain  the  jelly ;  let  it  cool ; 
take  off  the  top,  and  keep  back  the  sediment,  and  clarify 
it  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  whisked  in  it,  and  the 
broken  shells.  Continue  to  whisk  it  OTer  the  ^r^  till  it  look 
curdled  and  white,  then  draw  it  to  the  side  of  the  stove, 
and  throw  cloths  over  it.  When  quite  settled,  clear  and 
bright,  strain  it  ofif  gently,  and  keep  it  to  use  in  garnishing 
dishes. — Ohs,  If  for  moulding,  the  jelly  must  be  made  very 
stiff.  This  jelly  does  to  ornament  fish,  lobster-salads,  and 
dressed  dishes  of  various  kinds.  If  for  meat-dishes,  the 
jelly  must  be  seasoned  so  as  best  to  suit  the  kind  of  viands 
it  is  to  garnish,  whether  ham,  turkey,  cold  game,  &c.  It 
must  be  run  repeatedly  through  the  jelly-bag  till  clear  and 
amber-coloured.r— See  No.  174* 

N.  B.  The  other  popular  sauces  used  by  the  French — 
as  Bechamel,  Mayonnaise,  &c.— -are  either  the  same  as  our 
own  that  go  under  similar  names,  or  the  difference  is 
pointed  out  in  the  receipts  given  for  them  in  the  Chapter 
Sauces.— See  Ohs.  Nos.  268,  274,  289,  &c. 

607.    FRENCH  SOUPS. 

Soups,  imder  the  French  names,  or,  what  is  the  same 
thing,  under  a  different  name,  though  the  same  soup,  are 
so  common  at  English  tables,  that  the  best  part  of  them 
will  be  found  in  the  Chapter  Soups.  There  are  still  a  few 
entitled  to  a  place  here. — See  also  Nos.  68,  72,  63, 64,  &c. 

608.  Potage  au  Biz^  or  Bice-Soup, — Have  a  strong, 


d84  CHAP.  II. — FRSircH  COOKERT. 

clear  houUlon  (No.  59  or  63)  of  real  or  beef,  or  of  a  mix- 
ture of  these  meats,  made  as  directed  for  stock-broth.  Put 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  this  (well  seasoned)  boiling  hot 
into  a  tureen,  in  which  are  two  ounces  of  rice,  prepared  as 
directed  for  Mullagatawny,  in  Chapter  National  Dishes. 

Another  voay^  which  makes  two  Dishes, — Boil  a  neatly- 
trussed  large  fowl  or  capon  in  grand  bouillon  with  two 
cloYes,  two  onions,  a  fagot  of  sweet  herbs,  and  salt. 
Skim  it  well  to  make  the  soup  clear.  Serve  the  fowl  with 
a  little  great  salt  sprinkled  on  the  breast  {au  gros  sel^) 
and  a  spoonful  of  the  clear  soup  about  it.  Serve  the  soup 
on  boiled  rice,  taking  out  the  onions,  and  cloves,  and 
herbs,  and  put  a  little  brown  beef  or  veal  gravy  to  it  to 
improve  the  colour. — See  Nos.  66  and  98. 

609.  Potage  de  Livrauts  d  la  Saint  George, — (Cardme's 
receipt  for  Hare-soup,  named  from  St.  Greorge  the  Patron 
Saint  of  England.) — Take  the  fillets  from  two  leverets, 
cut  up  their  carcasses,  and  sweat  them  with  a  little  fresh 
butter  over  a  slow  stove,  mix  a  ragout-spoonful  of  flour, 
and  let  them  sweat  a  few  minutes  longer  ;  then  add  half  a 
bottle  of  champagne,  one  of  claret,  and  four  ladlefuls  of 
eonsomm^y  a  pottle  of  mushrooms,  a  truffle  cut  in  quarters, 
two  onions,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  tied  up,  with  half  a 
bay-leaf,  a  little  thyme,  basil,  marjoram,  and  savory,  whole 
pepper,  two  cloves,  mace,  cayenne,  and  a  clove  of  garlic. 
Let  it  boil  gently  by  the  side  of  a  stove,  and  skim  the 
sauce  ;  strain,  and  reduce  it  one-fourth,  and  when  serving* 
put  it  into  the  tureen  in  which  you  have  placed  the  fillets 
of  the  leverets  sauted  in  escalopes,  and  thirty  small  que- 
nelles made  of  the  flesh  of  a  partridge,  virith  three  pottles 
of  mushrooms  turned,  and  four  truffles  sliced  and  saut^ 
in  butter.  The  ingredients  composing  this  soup  require 
much  care  that  they  be  perfectly  done,  and  of  a  relishing 
flavour.  The  soup  must  not  boil,  or  the  escalopes  will 
become  hard. 

610.  Potage  au   Vermicelli, — Prepare  four  ounces   of  • 
vermicelli  by  blanching  it,  and  boiling  it  in  broth.  Make  the 
soup  oi  grand  bouillon,  of  blonde  de  veau,  or  consomnU^ 
or  a  part  of  each.     Let  the  previously-cooked  vermicelli 
boil  in  it  five  minutes,  and  no  more.— See  No.  66. 


SOUPS.  385 

611.  Potage  d  Vltdlienne^  a  Brown-Soup.  •^^Cni 
young  carrots  and  turnips  in  scrolls  like  ribbons;  and 
some  white  of  leeks,  two  heads  of  celery,  and  three  onions 
in  Mets.  Fry  these  in  butter ;  moisten  with  enough  strong, 
clear,  deep-coloured  gravy-stock,  and  some  blonde  de  teau. 
Season  with  salt,  and  serve  on  toasted  crusts  soaked  in  a 
little  stock. — See  No.  81. 

N.B.  If  the  roots  are  old,  blanch  them.  This,  in  the 
season,  is  made  a  sort  of  vegetable  hotch-potch,  with  green 
lettuce  and  other  vegetables. 

612.  Potctge  d  la  Baveau,  a  clear  Broton-Soup,* — 
Scoop  out  some  yellow  turnips  the  size  of  marbles,  with  a 
scooper.  Blanch  them,  and  boil  them  in  a  clear  strong 
consommi  with  a  little  browned  sugar.  Colour  the  soup 
deeper  with  veal-gravy,  and  serve  it  on  grilled  crusts. 

.612.^  Potoffe  Anglais  d  la  Rothschild,  —  (In  honour  of 
Baron  Rothschild.)  Put  into  a  stock-pot  two  slices  of  ham, 
a  turkey  three-parts  roasted,  but  somewhat  coloured,  also 
a  partridge,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  the  necessary  beef-stock; 
let  the  consomm6  be  skimmed  ;  add  the  skins  of  a  pound 
of  truffles,  a  pottle  of  mushrooms,  two  onions,  a  carrot,  a 
head  of  celery,  and  two  leeks,  the  whole  sliced  ;  half  a 
bay-leaf,  a  little  thyme,  basil,  savory,  marjoram,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  cayenne  pepper,  and  two  cloves.  When 
it  has  boiled  gently  five  hours,  mix  with  it  two  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  up  with  half  a  pint  of  hock,  and  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  after  strain  it  through  a  napkin  ;  set  it  again  on 
to  boil,  and  pour  it  afterwards  into  a  tureen  containing 
some  quenelles  of  fowl,  with  an  essence  of  mushrooms 
mixed  in  them ;  cocks'  combs,  and  kidneys,  and  twenty 
small  white  mushrooms.^*C%ir^me. 

613.  Potage  au  Choux^  Cahbage-Soup. — ^Parboil  three 
firm  white  small  cabbages.  Drain  them,  and  braise  them 
in  top-fat,  with  a  few  slices  of  bacon  and  seasonings. 
Drain  them  again  from  this  fat ;  quarter  them,  and  slide 
them  into  the  tureen,  and  over  them  pour  strong,  well- 
seasoned,  boiling  beef  stock-broth. 

*  The  French  sometimes  brown  their  carrots  and  turnips  in  butter, 
and  rub  them  through  a  sieve  if  for  carrot  or  turnip  soup.  —  See 
No.  63. 

23 


383  CHAP.  II. — FRE5CH  COOKERY. 

614.  German  Cabbage-Soup, — Mince  the  parboiled  cab- 
bage. Stew  them  in  butter,  and  serve  them  in  strong 
stock  (No.  63,)  with  toasted  bread  cut  in  dice. 

615.  Potage  Printanier^  or  Spring-Soup, — Cut  carrots, 
turnips,  celery,  aud  onions  into  small  dice.  Fry  them 
gently,  and  drain  and  boil  them  slowly  in  clear  veal-stock, 
with  a  bit  of  browned  sugar.  Boil  separately  very  green 
asparagus  tops,  and  French  beans  cut  as  small  diamonds, 
also  very  green  peas.     Mix  and  serve. 

616.  Potage  d  la  Camerani,*  by  H.  J. — For  this  soup, 
to  make  it  in  perfection,  the  cook  must  have  genuine 
Naples  macaroni,  the  best  Parmesan  cheese,  and  mellow 
Dutch  butter,  with  two  dozen  livers  of  fat  pullets,  celery, 
turnip,  parsnips,  leeks,  carrots,  parsley,  and  young  onions. 
Mince  the  livers,  the  celery,  and  the  blanched  pot-herbs 
very  well,  and  stew  them  all  together  in  butter.  Meanwhile 
boil  the  macaroni  twelve  minutes ;  season  it  with  white 
pepper  and  fine  spices,  and  drain  it  well.  You  must  now 
(to  do  the  thing  in  style)  have  a  soup-dish  that  will  bear 
the  fire  ;  spread  over  it  a  layer  of  macaroni,  next  a  layer 
of  the  cooked  mincemeat,  then  a  layer  of  grated  Parmesan. 
Proceed  in  this  order  till  the  soup-dish  is  filled  sufficiently, 
and  end  with  Parmesan.  Place  the  dish  on  embers,  and 
let  it  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour. 

FRENCH  DISHES  WHICH  ARE  SERVED  IN  TUREEN,  OR 
SOUP-DISHES  IN  THE  FIRST  COURSE. 

617.  Civet  of  Hare^  a  favourite  Dish, — Cut  the  hare 
into  small  pieces,  and  carefully  save  the  blood.  Cut  some 
firm  white  bacon  into  small  cubes,  and  give  them  a  light 
fry  with  a  bit  of  butter.  Strain  the  gravy  they  give  out, 
and  thicken  it  with  browned  flour  dusted  over  it  in  the 
stew-pan.  Put  aside  the  bits  of  bacon,  and  place  the  cut 
hare  in  the  stew-pan  in  the  gravy.     When  firmed  with 

*  There  is  an  immense  quantity  of  gastrology  in  our  late  fashionable 
novels  ;  not  always  very  judiciously  given,  nor  with  very  profound  or 
accurate  knowledge  of  that  mystery  in  which  we  profess  ourselves 
adepts,  but  with  so  much  apparent  good  will  and  enthusiasm  for  the 
science  as  to  disarm  criticism.  Among  the  compositions  lauded,  with 
at  least  as  much  zeal  as  knowledge,  is  M.  Camerani^s  Celebrated  soup. 
A  dish  of  this  soup  has  cost  five  pounds !     How  can  it  fail  to  be  good  ? 


SOUPS.  887 

drying,  moisten  with  good  stock  and  a  pint  of  red  wine, 
and  season  with  parsley,  yonng  onions,  sait,  pepper,  a  few 
mushrooms  or  catsup,  or  mushroom-powder.  Let  the 
meat  stew  slowly  till  done,  and  skim  off  the  fat.  Now 
lift  all  that  is  good  of  the  hare,  and  also  the  hacon  that 
you  put  aside,  into  a  clean  stew-pan.  Strain  the  gravy 
over  this,  and  now  put  to  the  civee,  Hie  bruised  liver,  the 
blood,  some  small  mushrooms  and  onions  ready  cooked. 
Do  not  let  it  boil  lest  the  blood  curdle.  Put  the  gravy  in 
which  the  mushrooms  and  onions  were  cooked  to  the  civet 
when  it  (the  gravy)  has  been  well  boiled  down. — Obs,  If 
cooking  for  palates  trained  on  the  Continent,  add  to  the 
seasonings  a  bay-leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  two  cloves  of 
garlic.  The  civet  is  very  similar  to  the  old  Scotch  hare- 
soup.     Pick  out  the  herbs. 

618.  Civet  of  Bodmck,  —  Make  this  exactly  as  civet  of 
hare,  but  without  the  blood  of  the  animal.  Use  small 
cutlets  of  the  neck  and  breast.  It  is  an  admirable  way  of 
dressing  venison. — See  No.  503. 


FRENCH  HADE-DISHES  OF  BEEF. 

619.  Bcsufd  la  Flamande, — See  No.  394. 

620.  BcBuf  de  Chasse^  No.  410 ;  Beef  Steaks  with 
Potatoes^  No.  39. 

621.  Palais  de  Boeuf  d.  ritalienne^  Beef  Palates  with 
Italian  Sauce, — Rub  the  palates  with  salt ;  parboil  and 
skin  them.  Cut  them  into  scollops,  not  too  large,  and 
stew  them  slowly  in  a  brown  Italian  sauce  well  thickened 
by  a  previous  boiling  down.  Add  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and 
serve  them. — Obs.  This  will  be  found  an  exceedingly  good 
way  of  dressing  palates. — See  also  Nos.  396,  and  406. 

622.  Entre-Cdte  de  Bceuf — By  this  is  meant  what  lies 
under  the  long  ribs,  or  those  thick  slices  of  delicate  meat 
which  may  be  got  from  between  them.  Cut  this  into 
narrow  steaks.  Flatten  and  broil  these,  and  either  serve 
the  steaks  d  la  Bif-tik  Anglais^  No.  38,  or  with  sauce 
hachSey  No.  591,  under  them. 

623.  Languede  Basufen  Miroton. — Cut  a  cold  skinned 
tongue  into  nice  round  slices.  Heat  them  in  Espagnole^ 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  stock.      Dress  them 


888  CHAP.  n. — ^FRENCH  OOOKEBT. 

round  a  dish,  each  slice  leaning  on  the  edge  of  the  other, 
which  is  called  en  mirotan.   They  may  he  glazed  if  liked. 

624.  Langue  de  Basufd  la  Braise^  Tongtie  braised. — 
Clean  a  large  tongae,  as  directed  No.  397.  Parhoil  and 
skin  ity  and  lard  it  all  across  with  lard,  season  with  cooks^ 
pepper.  Put  it  in  a  stew-pan  that  will  just  hold  it.  Cover 
it  with  good  stock,  and  a  glass  of  wine.  Season  with  a 
bay-lelEif,  two  cloves,  two  carrots,  and  three  onions,  and 
with  any  trimmings  of  veal,  poultry,  or  game,  you  have. 
Put  paper  over  it,  and  fire  over  the  lid,  and  stew  it  slowly 
with  fire  under  and  over  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  Gar- 
nish with  the  roots,  and  sauce  the  tongue  with  the  strained 
gravy  seasoned,  to  which  add  a  little  Eepa^gnoU.  —  N.  B. 
This  is  of  a  very  high  g(mt, 

625.  Stewed  Rump  of  Beef  with  glazed  anions  d  la 
Franqaise, — ^Bone  and  lard  a  rump  of  from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  pounds,  slantwise,  with  lardons  of  bacon  six 
or  seven  inches  long :  put  the  sawed  bone,  and  five  pounds 
of  trimmings  of  the  meat,  and  a  pound  of  ham,  into  a 
stew-pan  of  the  proper  size.  Add  three  onions,  two  car- 
rots, a  turnip,  a  head  of  celery,  a  leek,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  one  of  sweet  herbs,  with  four  bay-leaves,  a  dessert 
spoonful  of  peppercorns,  and  two  blades  of  mace.  Put  in 
a  pint  of  water,  or  rather  more,  to  prevent  the  cut  meat 
from  burning,  and  when  it  has  become  a  glaze,  put  in  the 
rump,  and  fill  up  the  stew-pan,  which  must  simmer,  with 
a  little  salt  added,  for  six  hours.  With  a  packing-needle 
try  if  the  beef  is  done :  previous  to  this,  have  ready 
eighteen  onions  of  middle  size,  blanched,  and  fried  in  butter 
in  a  saut6-pan,  with  a  half  ounce  of  pounded  sugar :  cover 
them  with  stock  when  browned,  and  let  this  simmer  till 
it  become  a  thin  glaze.  Have,  also,  eighteen  slices  of  car- 
rot, and  eighteen  of  turnip,  shaped  like  small  pears,  and 
prepared  as  the  onions.  Dish  the  rump.  Dress  the  vege- 
tables round  it ;  and  have  ready  a  gravy  for  it  of  the  glaze 
of  the  vegetables,  a  quart  of  brown  gravy,  and  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  stock.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  reduce 
by  a  rapid  boil,  and  pour  it  over  the  vegetables  and  onions. 
Glaze  the  top  of  beef;  brown  it  lightly  with  a  salamander 
and  serve. 


TEAL.  389 

'  Another  French  mode,  or  aux  OignonsphcSs,^- Stew  the 
rump  as  above,  but  prepare  three  dozen  of  onions  ;  make 
a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  round  the  dish,  and  dress  the 
onions  on  this,  with  a  very  small,  dressed  Brussels  cabbage 
upon  each  onion,  or  a  head  of  asparagus.  Put  a  quart  of 
brown  sauce  into  a  stew-pan,  the  glaze  of  the  cooked 
onions,  and  four  spoonfuls  of  tomata  sauce.  Boil  it  quickly 
for  five  minutes ;  pour  it  over  the  onions  ;  put  the  beef  into 
the  dish,  and  glaze  the  top  of  the  beef,  and  brown  as  before 
with  a  salamander.  The  Brussels  sprouts  very  green,  may 
either  be  laid  alternately  with  the  onions,  or  one  above 
each  onion.  The  stewed  rump  may  also  be  served  with 
Tomata  sattccy  and  the  dish  ornamented  with  a  very  white 
cauliflower  at  each  end. 

To  dress  a  cold  Stetoed  Rump, — Cut  slices  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.  Trim  them  neatly :  soak  them  till  heated 
through  in  a  little  consomm^y  or  glaze  them,  after  heating 
through  in  an  oven,  and  serve  with  Tomata  sauce  or  stmce 
piquant.  The  above  grosses  pieces,  are  of  course  for  large 
or  sumptuous  dinners :  but  they  may  be  cooked  on  a 
smaller  scale,  and  the  stew  liquor  may  form  the  sauce.  The 
larding  may  also  be  omitted.  Ox-Bumps  in  the  French 
mcmner,  see  No.  401. 

626.  Chus  Double,  or  Tripe,  to  dress, — Take  the 
fattest  thick  tripe  well  cleaned,  and  repeatedly  scalded  and 
scraped.  Boil  it  in  water  two  hours,  and  clean  it  again  : 
then  stew  it  in  a  blanc  for  four  or  five  hours.  Cut  it  in 
lozenges,  and  serve  it  in  white  Italian  sauce. 

VEAL. 

627*  The  French  manner  of  dividing  and  dressing  the 
Fillet,  —  The  fillet  is  formed  of  three  distinct  parts  ;  the 
large  fat  fleshy  piece  inside  of  the  thigh,  which  the  Frcj  ch 
call  the  noix.  Of  this  they  make  a  principal  First-course 
dish^  The  piece  below  this  they  call  the  under  noix,  and 
the  side  part  the  centre  noix.  Of  the  principal  noix  they 
make  &/ricandeau,  or  a  small  roast,  by  stuffing  and  skew- 
ering this  piece,  to  which  in  a  cow-calf  the  udder  is 
attached ;  or  they  fry  it,  d  la  Bourgeoise,  Of  this  part  they 
also  make  cutlets,  and  grenadine.  The  under  noix  they 
use  for  pie-meat,  forcemeat,  &c. ;  and  the  centre  noix,  or  fat 


390  CHAP.  n. — FBEXCH  COOKEBT, 

marrowy  piece  of  the  fillet  next  the  rump,  for  goditeav^ 
sauce  tourfUe^  &c.  The  trimmings  and  bones  help  to  make 
Espoffnole^  or  any  soup  or  sauce.  The  part  next  the  rump, 
or  centre  noix^  is  also  dressed  d  la  Bour^eoise,  1.  e.  fried, 

628.  Noix  de  Veau  en  Bedeau^'—or  in  ike  BeadM 
Fashion. — Flatten  the  noixy  and  lard  it  lengthwise  with 
lard  seasoned  with  minced  parsley,  green  onions,  and 
cooks'  pepper.  Line  a  stew-pan,  that  will  just  hold  it,  with 
trimmings  of  veal,  and  lay  slices  of  white  bacon  over  the 
noix  where  not  larded.  Put  onions,  carrots,  parsley,  &c. 
into  the  stew-pan,  and  a  little  Espagnole  or  roux.  Cook 
slowly ;  serve  with  or  over  sorrel,  spinage,  or  a  puree  of 
onions. 

A  Purie  of  onions,  turnips,  mushrooms,  &c.,  is  a  pulpy 
mash  or  sauce  of  the  vegetable  specified,  thinned  with 
boiling  cream  or  gravy. 

629.  Grenadins  de  Veau, — Veal  Grenadins, —  These 
are  small  slices  from  the  fillet  about  an  inch  thick,  flat- 
tened, and  one  piece  being  cut  round,  the  others  must  be 
shaped  as  lozenges  to  lie  round  this  centre.  Lard  them, 
stew  them  in  a  pan  lined  with  bacon,  and  trimmings  of 
veal :  season  as  above  ;  put  fire  over  the  pan.  Serve  on  a 
purSe  of  mushrooms,  or  with  sorrel,  or  endive,  dishing  the 
grenadins  with  their  points  to  the  centre  where  the  round 
piece  is  laid. — See  No.  442. 

629.'  Tendrons  de  Veau — Or  gristles  cut  out  of  the  breast 
of  veaj — ^make  a  nice  and  favourite  French  dish,  and  are  now 
common  at  refined  tables  in,  England.  The  tendrons  are  cut 
from  one  or  two  breasts  of  veal,  stewed  in  white  or  brown 
rich  stock,  with  herbs  and  seasonings ;  allowed  to  cool,  and 
cut  into  different  shapes,  as  ovals,  diamonds,  oysters.  The 
following  we  consider  the  best  mode  of  cooking  :—^The 
tendrons  lie  round  the  front  of  the  breast ;  cut  them  neatly 
out,  not  to  spoil  the  joint  for  roasting  or  stewing.  Put 
them  into  a  deep  small  stew-pan,  with  two  carrots,  three 
onions,  a  bay-leaf,  some  slices  of  lemon,  and  cloves,  (if 
you  like,)  and  a  small  fagot  of  sweet  herbs  and  parsley. 
Moisten  with  a  pint  of  good  stock,  and  ^mmer  for  two  or 
three  hours  till  the  point  of  a  knife  will  easily  enter  the 
meat.    Lift  them,  and  pull  out  any  bones  or  hard  parta 


MADE-DISHES  OF  VEAL.  SOI 

Temaining.  Press  them  between  two  trenchers  on  which 
a  weight  is  laid,  and  when  cold  cut  them  into  the  shape 
you  want,  but  let  it  not  be  above  an  inch  and  a  half  in 
size.  Egg  and  crumb  the  bits,  and  fry  them  in  a  saut6- 
pan,  of  a  golden  brown ;  and  serve  witli  a  sauce  made  of 
six  spoonfuls  of  white  stock,  two  of  chopped  mushrooms, 
and  an  onion  parboiled  and  chopped,  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  A  glass  of  white  wine  may  be  put  to  the  sauce, 
which  may  be  thickened  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  improved 
by  cream.  Tendrom  are  dressed  and  dished  under  various 
names.  Our  No.  639  is  a  very  good  mode.  They  may  be 
dished  upon  a  potato-paste  border,  or  with  sippets  fried  and 
glazedy  or  not.  They  are  also  served  cold,  over  different 
sauces,  as  Poivr€tde  or  Pauvre  Homme,  We  have  said  more 
of  this  pretty  dish  than  we  should  have  done,  if  the  ten- 
drona  of  large  veal  were  not  often  lost  by  remaining  under- 
done when  the  brisket  is  stewed;  which,  besides,  cooks  much 
better  when  they  are  cut  out. 

629.3  2*0  CurHe  Calfs  Head  d  la  Ihzngaise, — Prepare 
the  head  as  Nos.  456, 457, 458,  459.  Boil  a  pound  of  rice  as 
for  currie,  and  dress  it  pyramidically  in  the  centre  of  a  dbh. 
Have  ready  a  sauce  made  of  two  acid  apples  and  four  mush- 
rooms sliced ;  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  few  leaves  of  parsley,  a 
blade  of  mace,  and  four  cloves.  Fry  these  in  two  ounces 
of  butter,  and  when  browned  slightly,  rub  to  this  a  table- 
spoonful  of  currie-powder.  Stir  well  in,  and  add  three 
pints  of  white  sauce.  Boil  the  whole  for  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  into  another  stew-pan,  add  white  pepper,  a  little 
cayenne,  and  salt,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  hash  of  the 
head  kept  warm.  Serve  the  pyramid  of  rice,  with  the  top 
flattened  into  a  well,  in  which  the  brains,  cooked  as  No. 
631,  are  laid*  For  Indians,  and  others,  more  currie-pow- 
der  or  currie-paste  will  be  required,  and  many  will  prefer 
broum  to  white  sauce.  Instead  of  mushrooms,  rasped 
cocoa-nut  may  be  put  in  with  the  meat. 

630.  Calfs  Brains  a  la  Ravigote.* — Skin  the  brains, 
and  carefully  remove  all  the  fibres.    Soak  them  in  several 

*  We  do  not  conceive  theie  dishes  as  of  much  importance  $  but 
where  there  is  a  table  to  fumbh  every  day,  and  a  cook  wao  delights  in 


392  CHAP.  II. — ^FRBNCR  COOKERY. 

waters.  Parboil  in  .salt  and  \irater,  with  a  glass  of  vine- 
gar,  for  ten  minutes ;  and  when  firm,  divide  and  fry  them. 
Serve  with  Ramgote-tauce. 

631.  Calfs  Brains  a  la  Maiire  cT Hotel. -^Boii  the 
brains  as  above,  with  a  little  batter  in  the  water ;  don't 
fry  them.  Fry  some  bread  cut  like  scallop-shells.  Dish 
the  brains  divided,  with  the  bread  between,  and  cover  with 
a  Mattre  d*h6tel  soMot,  Another  pretty  dish  of  brains 
may  be  made  by  serving  very  green  fried  parsley  in  the 
middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  brains  around,  saucing  with 
browned  butter  and  a  little  Chili  vinegar.    See  No.  538. 

632.  Baudins  of  cold  Veal  d  la  Heine, — ^Chop  cold  roast 
veal,  leaving  out  skin,  gristles,  &c.  Season  with  white 
pepper,  salt,  lemon-grate,  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Heat 
the  mince  in  vehuU,  or  any  white  sauce,  and  when  cold 
roll  it  up  into  baudine  about  the  size  of  small  sausages. 
Cover  these  with  beat  eggs,  and  strew  with  bread-crumbs 
till  they  are  well  crumbed.  Fry  of  a  fine  brown,  drain 
and  serve  them  with  fried  parsley. 

633.  Cal/*s  Ears. — The  French  dress  these  in  various 
ways; — /arced  with  dressed  forcemeat,  —  with  Italian 
sauce,  or  d  la  Savigcte.  Clean  them,  cook  them  in  a 
blancy  dip  them  in  eggs  and  crumbs  with  seasonings, 
and  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown  colour,  or  dip  in  a  light 
frying  batter.  Garnish  with  fried  parsley.  Fat  sauces 
would  be  improper  with  all  such  gristly  tender  meats,  as 
calTs  feet  or  ears,  or  sheep's  or  lamb's  trotters.— -As  a 
specimen  of  finical,  or  false-ornament  in  French  cookery,  we 
may  mention  calTs  ears  cut  in  tendrils  or  fringes,  and  a 
plover's  egg — a  rich  jewel  !-^eposited  in  each  ear. 

634.  Bis  de  Veau  ava  MousseronSy^^Veal-Sweetbreads, 
with  Mtishrootns. — Choose  sweetbreads  large  and  white. 
Soak  them  and  blanch  in  boiling  water  till  they  firm. 
Cut  in  nice  pieces,  and  stew  them  in  a  little  wlouts,  with 
mushroom-sauce,*  ready  prepared.    Take  them  up.    Boil 

her  office,  Bach  trifling  things  may  be  found  usefal  ;  and  where  good 
dinners  are  constantly  given,  and  sauces  prepared  at  any  rate,  the  ex- 
pense is  trifling. 

*  The  French  mb  this  sauce,  celery,  onion,  &o.,  through  a  sieve,  so 
that  they  are  all  pwrUs^  i,  e.  smooth,  and  of  pulpy  consistence. 


MABB-DISHES  OF  TBAL.  3d3 

down  the  saaoe,  and,  when  well  reduced,  thicken  with  beat 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  season  with  a  little  blanched  parsley, 
nicely  minced,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon.  They  are  also 
served  with  young  peas,  or  mushrooms;  or  are  egged, 
crumbed,  and  fried.— -See  No.  639. 

QS6.Calf*s  lAeeTy  wifA^ne^erA^.— Cut  a  sound  white  liver 
into  oblong  slices  less  than  an  inch  thick.  Form  these  into 
the  shape  of  hearts  about  two  inches  broad,  dredge  them 
with  flour,  and  put  them  to  fry  with  onions,  mud^ooms, 
parsley  previously  shred,  and  stewed  in  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Fry  all  tiiis  gently  tiU  ready,  and  dust  it  with 
more  pepper.  Keep  the  pieces  hot,  put  a  little  broth  or 
gravy  to  the  herbs  to  moisten  them,  and  stew  for  three 
minutes,  and  serve  over  the  liver,  which  must  be  dished 
in  form,  arranging  the  bits  neatly. — 06f .  This  dish  is  often 
served  for  the  Dejeuwr  d  la  fimrehetU^  and  must  then  be 
highly  seasoned,  and  very  hot. — See  Nos*  452  and  64. 

636.  BlanquetUs  of  VeaL — Cut  a  cold  roast  loin  or 
shoulder  of  veal  into  small  pieces,  using  only  the  white 
part.  Trim  away  the  browned  outside,  and  fat,  and 
mince  the  veal.  Stir  it  till  warm  in  veUmU^  well  reduced  ; 
but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
or  two,  and  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon  when  ready  to  serve. 
-«^e  Nos.  464  and  465. 

637.  BUxnquetUs  with  C%ietcfn5er9.-^ut  cold  veal  as  above 
into  scollops,  and  heat  them  in  aauce  ttmmSe,  Quarter 
and  cut  four  or  five  cucumbers  also  in  scollops.  Cook 
these  also  in  sauee  tounUe,  Drain  them;  reduce  the 
strained  sauce :  thicken  it  with  the  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Put  in  a  little  cream,  salt,  and  a  bit  of  sugar.  Serve  the 
sauce  over  the  meat  and  cucumbers,  neatly  dished. 

638.  Blanquettes  d  la  Pe^sanne, — ^Prepare  the  veal  as 
above  in  scollops.  Heat  the  meat  in  a  reduced  satu^ 
toumee.  Thicken  with  ^^gy  and  season  with  minced 
parsley,  and,  before  serving,  add  a  good  squeeze  of  lemon. 
These  preparations  may  be  served  in  dishes  with  borders. 

639.  Cold  Sweetbreads. '-Cui  them  into  scollops  or 
square  bits.  Stew  them  in  strong  gravy  till  heated 
through.  Fry  scollops  of  bread :  dish,  placing  meat  and 
bread  scollops  alternately,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley. 


904  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  COOKERT. 

640.  Veal  Cutlets  d  la  Chvngara.'*' — Cut  and  trim 
cutlets  from  the  fillet.  Put  them  into  the  stew-pan  with 
butter  and  ham,  onions,  parsley,  carrot,  and  herbs.  Warm 
in  soup  a  slice  of  smoked  tongue  for  each  cutlet.  When 
the  cutlets  are  enough  done,  take  them  out ;  boil  down 
the  stock  to  a  glaze,  and  put  them  back.  Glaze  the  slices 
of  tongue.  Dish  one  on  each  cutlet,  shaping  them 
together.  Dish  them  in  a  round  form.  Put  a  little  Espa- 
gnole  into  the  stew-pan,  and  a  bit  of  butter ;  warm  in  it 
the  remains  of  the  boiled  tongue  minced,  and  pour  this 
sauce  into  the  centre  of  the  dish. — ^N.B.  Fillets  of  cold 
roast  fowls  or  turkey  are  excellent  dressed  with  tongue  in 
this  way. — See  Nos.  48,  445,  446. 

641.  Cotelettes  au  Jambon, — These  are  precisely  the 
same  as  the  former,  only  ham  (the  prime  slices)  is  used 
instead  of  tongue. 

642.  Cutleti  with  Fine  Herhsy  or,  d  la  Venetienne. — 
Chop  a  liandful  of  mushrooms,  two  eschalots,  a  little 
parsley,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Stew  these  in  rasped 
bacon  and  butter ;  when  done,  put  in,  and  stew  the  cutlets 
over  a  very  slow  fire.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  Skim  off 
the  fat  carefully.  Put  in  a  large  spoonful  of  Sauce 
Tourn^e  or  white  roux.  Thicken  with  yolks  of  eggs 
beat  with  a  little  cream.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon^ 
which  is  proper  for  all  dishes  made  of  veal,  and  a  little 
cayenne* 

643.  Loin  o/dre$$ed  Veal  d  la  Bechamel. — ^A  loin  of 
veal,  when  used  as  a  removey  very  often  comes  back  from 
the  table  untouched,  or  with  very  little  taken  off  it.  Make 
a  mince  of  the  fillet  or  inside  of  the  loin.  Cover  the  loin 
with  buttered  paper,  and  warm  it  in  a  Dutch  oven. 
Place  it  above  the  stewed  mince,  and  serve  with  a  white 
sauce. 

644.    MUTTON.t 

Gigot  d  la  Gasconne^  onLeg  of  Mutton  Cfascon  Fashion. 

*  These  were  the  faTOurite  cutlets  of  the  Nabob.  Jbkyll  pre- 
ferred cutlets  a  VltaltMne,  i,  e.  dipped  in  butter,  nicely  broiled,  and 
served  with  a  white  Italian  sauce. 

f  Families  in  the  countnr,  and  those  who  "  kill  their  own  mutton.** 
depend  so  much  upon  this  Uivourite  food,  that  it  is  impossible  to  know 
too  many  good  ways  of  dressing  it;  though,  when  all  is  done,  none  can 


DISHES  OF  MUTTOir.  S95 

'*— This  is  a  dish  of  very  high  ffout,  and  seldom  now  seen, 
hut  it  still  has  devoted  admirers.  Lard  a  leg  of  mutton 
with  garlic  and  fillets  of  anchovies ;  roast  it,  and  serve 
with  Spanish  or  garlic-sauce.  If  for  English  palates^ 
first  hlanch  the  garlic  in  several  waters,  until  it  hecomes 
mellow. — See  from  Nos.  467  to  477. 

645.  Cotelettes  d  la  Soubise^  Soubise  Mutton-Cutlets. 
— Cut  chops  from  the  rihs,  or  cutlets  from  the  leg,  rather 
thick  than  otherwise.  Trim  off  the  superfluous  fat,  and 
sweat  them  in  a  stew-pan  in  strong  gravy  or  hutter-sauce, 
with  green  onions,  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  thus 
cooked,  take  out  the  herhs,  and  reduce  the  sauce  nearly  to  a 
glaze.  Drain  the  cutlets.  Dish  them  very  hot  with  the  sauee 
in  the  middle,  and  a  dozen  small  onions,  cooked  as  directed, 
around,  (No.  262.) — Obs,  Soubise  cutlets  used  to  be  larded, 
and  braised  in  bacon  with  all  sorts  of  herbs ;  but  there 
has  been  a  considerable  revolution  of  late  on  tiie  side  of 
refinement  even  in  French  cookery.  They  may  be  served 
with  French  beans,  or  cucumber. 

646.  Cotelettes  d  PItalienne  and  au  Natureh — These 
are  nearly  the  same.  Cut^  trim,  and  dip  the  chops  in 
butter  and  bread-crumbs.  Broil  them  a  little.  Put 
pepper  and  salt  over  them,  then  butter  and  crumbs  again, 
and  broil  till  ready.  Press  out  the  fat  between  folds  of 
hot  paper,  and  serve  with  Brown  Italian  sauce, 

647.  Cotelettes  d  la  Minute — or  in  their  Juice  for 
J)ejeuners  d  la  Fourchette, — Take  rather  thin  slices  from 
the  gigot,  as  in  carving  a  roast  leg.  Put  them  into  a 
thin-bottomed  frying-pan  in  which  is  hot  butter.  Turn 
them  continually.  Keep  them  hot  in  a  dish  by  the  fire  ; 
and  put  into  the  pan  a  little  gravy  and  a  few  chopped 
herbs,  stewed  as  for  Venetian  cutlets,  No.  642  ;  give  tiiis 
a  toss,  and  skim  and  serve  it  round  the  hot  cutlets. 

648.  Bognons  de  Mouton^  or  Mutton-Kidneys. — These 
are  also  served  at  the  Dejettner  d  la  Fourckette,  Skin  and 
split  a  dozen  kidneys  without  wholly  separating  them. 
Pin  them  out  with  small  wire  skewers  to  keep  them  open ; 
rub  them  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  \  dip  them  in  butter, 

surpass  a  roast  or  boiled  leg  ;  hotch-potch  ;  or  boiled  sciaff  with  onion* 
sauce  $  our  fiunilj  currie,  or  a  well-grilled  muttou-ehop.— -t.  T» 


390  CHAP.  II. — ^FRSNCH  COOKERT. 

and  broil  first  the  inside,  that,  when  turned  on  the  grill 
to  be  finished,  the  gravy  may  be  preserved.  Dish  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  a  very  little  chopped  blanched  parsley  and 
butter  dropped  over  each.— *0&tf.  In  France  these  are  also 
dressed  as  a  mince,  stewing  the  mince  in  butter,  draining 
and  serving  it  in  a  well-reduced  Italian  brown  sauce  with 
a  very  little  champagne. — See  Nos.  398,  478. 

649.  Beef-Kidneyi  are  dressed  as  above,  and  served  at 
the  D^euner  d  la  Fourehette, — N.B.  With  brains,  kidneys, 
and  liver,  always  use  cayenne. 

650.  Haricot  Irun^  ordla  Bourgeoise, — Brovm  mutton- 
chops  in  the  frying-pan.  Make  a  rotus  of  the  butter  in 
which  they  were  fried,  with  a  little  more  butter  and 
browned  flour.  Add  a  little  veal-gravy,  or  good  consommi^ 
well  seasoned,  and  some  bits  of  turnip,  with  parsley  and 
green  onions.  Skim  the  sauce  often  to  clear  it  of  fat. 
Have  some  turnips  scooped  into  balls  ready  boiled,  as  for 
soup  Baveau^  No.  612.  Put  them  with  the  chops  into  a 
clean  stew-pan,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  them.  When 
the  sauce  looks  clear  and  brown,  and  the  turnips  are  done, 
dish  the  chops  round,  and  serve  the  sauce  and  turnip-balls 
in  the  middle.  Cold  mutton  is  dressed  as  haricot  the 
same  way. 

651.  H<zch%9  de  Mouton  d  la  Por^t^eeat^^.— Prepare 
the  meat  as  for  any  hash.  Heat  it  in  a  thick,  well-reduced 
Sspa^nole,  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Serve  with 
eggs  over  it,  poached  rather  hard,  and  with  dressed  oniony 
between,  en  cordon^  or  chain-wise. 

652.  Minced  Mtitton  with  Cueumhers, — See  Na  285. 

653.  Pied  de  Mouton  a  la  Sattce  Robert^  Sheep*8 
Trotters, — Cook  the  cleaned  trotters  in  a  hlane.  When 
slowly  stewed  till  tender,  bone  them.  Roll  them  in  a 
dressed  forcemeat.  Dip  them  in  thin  frying  batter,  and 
fry  them. — Ohe,  They  may  also  be  stuffed  vrith  forcemeat, 
and  braised,  and  so  served.  Serve  with  Robert  sauce.— « 
See  No.  480. 

654.  Pieds  d^Agneau,  or  lamb's  trotters,  are  dressed  as 
above.— See  No.  480. 

.  655.  Cervelles  des  MotUons^  Sheep  8  Brains.  —  These  are 
dressed  exactly  as  No.  631,  but  more  pungent  seasonings 


DISH£S  OF  ICUTTON.  397 

are  proper.  —  Ohs.  Of  mutton  the  French  also  make 
frxcandeaux^  moriaddles^  or  large  sausages,  grenadins,  and 
many  other  dishes. — See  Shea's  Tongues ^  No.  481. 

656.  Cochon  de  Lait  au  Maine  blane^  en  Galantine.  — 
Prepare  the  pig  as  directed  at  page  108,  and  bone  it  all 
except  the  head  and  feet ;  but  take  care  not  to  break  the 
skin.  Make  a  forcemeat  of  any  degree  of  richness  you 
choose,  of  veal,  beef  suet,  calfs  udder,  &c.  Mince  basil, 
thyme,  and  sage,  panada ;  add  some  eggs  to  bind.  [Read 
QiAenelleSf  French  Cookery.']  Add  plenty  of  spices.  Now 
proceed  as  directed  for  godiveau.  Lay  the  boned  pig  on  a 
cloth,  and  cover  it  inside  with  the  forcemeat.  Rasp  some 
ham  oyer  all.  Try  to  keep  the  pig  as  near  its  natural 
shape  as  possible.  Sew  it  up.  Bind  it  in  a  napkin  with 
tape,  and  boil  it  in  stock  seasoned  with  roots  and  herbs. 
When  unswaddled,  after  two  hours'  slow  boiling,  wipe  it 
dry,  and  serve  with  brown  EspagnoUy  or  if  cold,  on  a 
napkin.* 

657.  Ja/nibmi  d  la  Broche.  —  Take  a  Bayonne  ham, 
large,  fresh,  well-selected,  and  at  least  twenty  poimds 
weight.  Trim  it  all  round.  Steep  it  for  two  or  three 
days  according  to  the  size.  —  See  No.  10.  If  it  ie  very 
superior  you  must  steep  it  in  Spanish  wine.  Spit  it,  and 
cover  it  all  over  with  slices  of  lard.  It  must  have  a  slack 
fire  for  at  least  five  hours,  and  be  basted  frequently  with  hot 
water  to  freshen  it,  and  dilate  the  pores,  which  basting  with 
wine  would  contract.  When  nearly  ready  remove  the  skin 
and  cover  the  surface  lightly  with  fine  bread-crumbs. — For 
Saticey  boil  down  the  wine  in  which  the  ham  was  steeped, 

*  Dr.  Rbogill,  whose  experiments  on  pig,  from  first  to  last,  were 
extremely  interesting,  totally  lost  one  stuffed  pig  by  overboiling ;  and 
had  anollier  considerably  injured  by  the  sewing  teanng  the  skin.  But 
his  final  success  was  triumphant ;  and  he  wrote  down  as  a  canon  of 
cookery,  that  all  stuffed  meats,  as  pig  au  moine  blanc,  haggis,  sausage, 
&c.,  are  not  to  be  boiled  by  their  apparent,  size,  but  by  their  solidi^; 
as  forcemeats  of  any  kind  will  cook  in  a  third  or  even  a  half  less  time 
than  a  joint  of  meat  of  the  original  compact  texture.  The  sewing 
should  be  the  stitch  surgeons  use  in  sewing  up  wounds.  If  the  cook 
would  avoid  the  catastrophe  of  her  pig,  foose,  or  haggis,  bursting,  she 
will  boil  these  important  articles  on  a  fish-drainer,  that,  if  an  accident 
do  occur,  ready  help  may  be  administered.  Silk  thresbd  is  more  apt 
to  tear  the  integument  than  any  other  thread ;  the  cook  should  there- 
fore for  her  purposes  take  soft  thread  made  of  cotton. — See  Pig'^s  Cheek, 
National  Dishes, 


398  CHAP.  II. — F&ENCH  GOOKBRT. 

and  put  to  it  the  juice  which  will  flow  from  the  ham  when 
taken  from  the  spit,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Skim 
this  and  serve  all  hot.  The  above  is  one  of  the  precious 
receipts  of  the  Society  of  the  Caveau  Mademe,  If  any- 
one choose  to  attempt  this  piece  of  extravagance,  a  good 
Yorkshire  or  Westmoreland  ham,  well  cured,  will  answer 
his  purpose  quite  as  well.  Our  authorities  all  speak 
with  enthusiasm  of  the  Jambon  d  la  Broche,  '^  un  tel 
roti  est  tr^  superieure  h  tous  ceux  que  la  boucfaerie,  la 
basse-cour,  la  poulailler,  les  fordts,  les  plaines,  les  etangs, 
et  les  mers  pouvaient  nous  ofirir.  Heureux  celui  qui  pent 
une  fois  en  sa  vie  manger  un  jambon  k  la  broche  I  II  ne 
plus  lien  a  regretter  des  sensualit6s  de  ce  has  monde!" 
This  dish,  even  in  France,  would  cost  ten  crowns.— 
See  Nos.  II  and  12. 

658.  Hure  de  Cochon^  or  Pig's  Face  stuffed,  —  Make 
the  head  as  large  as  you  can,  by  cutting  down  to  the 
shoulders.  Singe  it  carefully.  Put  a  red-hot  poker  into 
the  ears.  Clean  and  carefully  bone  the  head  without 
breaking  the  skin.  Rub  it  with  salt,  and  pour  a  boiled 
cold  brine  over  it,  with  a  large  handful  of  chopped  juniper- 
berries,  a  few  bruised  cloves,  and  four  bay-leaves,  with 
thyme,  basil,  sage,  a  head  of  garlic  bruised,  and  a  half- 
ounce  of  saltpetre  pounded.  Let  the  head  steep  in  this 
for  ten  days,  and  turn  it  and  rub  it  often.  Then  wipe,  drain, 
and  dry  it,  and  make  a  forcemeat  for  it  thus:  —  Take 
equal  quantities  of  undressed  ham,  and  the  breast  of  bacon. 
Season  this  highly  with  cooks'  pepper,  and  fine  spices,  if 
you  choose.  Pound  the  meat  very  small,  and  mix  with 
it  some  seasoned  lard,  parsley,  and  young  onions,  finely 
minced.  Prove  the  quality  of  the  forcemeat  as  directed 
at  No.  692.  Improve  it  where  deficient.  Spread  it  equally 
over  the  head.  Roll  up,  and  sew  it,  and  bind  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  stew  it  in  a  hraise  made  of  any  trimmings  and  sea- 
sonings left,  with  stock  enough  to  cover  it.  It  will  take 
nearly  four  hours  to  cook;  and  will  be  still  richer  if 
larded  before  it  is  stuffed.  Pierce  it  with  a  larding-pin. 
If  the  pin  enters  easily  it  is  done.  When  cool,  take  off 
the  binding  cloth.  Trim  the  ends  of  the  collared  head, 
and  serve  it  on  a  napkin.  —  Ohs.  This  dish  is  well  worth 
the  attention  of  the  gourmand  and  of  the  country  house- 


HARGy  POULTRr,  AND  GAME.  399 

keeper.  It  will  keep  a  long  while,  and  the  liquor  will 
make  a  sayoury  pease-soup ;  boil  to  a  glaze^  or  braise 
vegetables.  Independently  of  the  stuffing,  tiiis  French 
mode  of  curing  pig's  face  is  excellent.  This  is,  besides^ 
exactly  the  Hure  de  sanglier  of  Car^me,  when  stewed  in 
brandied  Madeira,  and  decorated  en  galantine.  See  Pig* 9 
Cheeky  National  Dished, 

659.  To  dress  cold  roast  Pig  a  la  Bechamel^  or  in  white 
Sauce,  —  Carve  what  remains  of  the  pig  into  neat  pieces, 
and  let  these  just  heat  in  Bechafnel-sauce,  or  serve  them 
as  blanquetteSy  i, «.  as  a  mince. — See  No.  636. 

FRENCH  DISHES  OF  HARE,  POULTRY,  AND  GAME. 

660.  Gateau  de  lAevrey  t.  e.  Hare  Cake  for  the  second 
Course,  —  Prepare  the  hare  as  directed  at  No.  35,  and  save 
the  liver  and  the  blood.  Scrape  the  meat  from  the  skin  and 
sinews,  and  mince  with  it  the  liver,  a  piece  of  a  calf's  liver, 
and  a  good  piece  of  the  best  part  of  an  undressed  ham. 
Pound  the  whole  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  stock,  or  with 
hare  or  game-soup.  Add  equal  to  a  third  part  of  the 
whole  bulk  of  rasped  lard.  Again  pound  the  whole  well 
together,  with  salt,  pepper,  young  onions,  and  parsley, 
previously  blanched ; — ^give  a  seasoning  also  of  one  spoon- 
ful Qi  brandy,  and  No.  334.  Mix  with  the  pounded  meat 
six  or  eight  eggs,  one  by  one,  and,  if  foreign  cookery  is 
admired,  the  expressed  juice  of  a  clove  of  garlic.  When 
the  whole  is  exceedingly  well  pounded  and  mixed,  line  a 
stew-pan  with  slices  of  lard,  and  put  the  forcemeat  over  it 
to  the  thickness  of  an  inch  and  a  half,  and  quite  level  and 
smooth.  Then  put  in  a  layer  of  lard,  pistachios,  and 
truffles,  all  cut  in  strips  and  neatly  laid  down  like  mosaic ; 
then  the  forcemeat  an  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Cover  with 
slices  of  bacon,  and  then  with  paper.  Close  the  pan,  and 
bake  the  cake  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  for  three,  if  you 
have  a  cake  of  three  layers  of  forcemeat.  Let  it  cool ;  dip 
the  mould  or  pan  in  hot  water  to  loosen  the  cake,  and  turn 
it  out.  Serve  on  a  napkin.  Garnish  to  your  fancy.  It 
makes  a  handsome  (iorman^  dish. — Ohs,  Hare  is  also  dressed 
in  France  as  cotelettes,  boudins,  S^c, 

661.  Rabbits  d  la  Venetienne,  i.  e.  with  fine  Herbs, — 
Carve  two  white  young  fat  rabbits  neatly,  and  brown 


400  CHAP.  n. — ^FRENCH  COOKERY. 

the  pieces  in  batter  with  some  rasped  bacon  and  a  handful 
of  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  eschalot,  with  pepper, 
salty  and  allspice.  -  Rub  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  into  a  little 
coMomme^  and  pour  this  into  the  stew-pan  with  the  rabbits. 
Stew  slowly  till  they  are  cooked ;  skim  and  strain  the 
sauce,  and  serve  it  hot  about  the  meat,  with  a  seasoning  of 
cayenne  and  a  good  squeeze  of  lemon. — Nos.  506,  503. 

662.  Dindon  en  datie. — Truss  the  turkey  as  for  boiling. 
Have  strips  of  lard  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  fine  spices, 
and  herbs.  Lard  the  breast  and  the  thighs.  Put  slices  of 
bacon  in  a  braising-pan,  and  place  the  turkey  on  it  with 
a  cut  hock  of  ham,  and  a  calf's  foot  broken,  the  trimmings 
of  the  turkey,  five  onions,  stuck  with  four  cloves,  thi^ 
carrots,  two  bay-leaves,  three  or  four  sprigs  of  thyme,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  young  onions.  Lay  slices  of  bacon 
over  the  turkey ;  moisten  with  four  spoonfuls  of  melted 
butter;  cover  with  three  rounds  of  buttered  paper,  and 
let  it  simmer  for  five  hours ;  take  it  from  the  fire,  but  do 
not  Hft  it  for  another  half-hour,  that  it  may  not  get  dry. 
Strain  the  gravy,  and  boil  it  down.  Beat  an  egg  well  in 
a  saucepan,  and  pour  the  gravy  (or  jelly  rather)  into  this. 
Whip  it  well ;  put  it  on  the  fire  ;  when  just  come  to  boil, 
place  it  on  the  side  of  the  furnace ;  cover  it  with  a  lid 
which  will  bear  embers  over  it ;  let  it  remain  for  a  half- 
hour  with  embers  over ;  strain  again,  and  with  this  jelly 
cover  the  dished  turkey.  Liewe  en  daubcy  the  same,  Turkey 
stufifed  with  truffles,  or  Dindon  aux  truffeSy  is  now  imported, 
ready  to  cook. 

663.  FOWL  A  LA.  CHiNGARA,  a  favourite  small  dish. 

Cut  a  fat  white  fowl  in  four,  across  and  down  the  back. 
Melt  the  least  bit  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  and  lay  four 
slices  from  a  good  part  of  an  undressed  ham  in  the  pan. 
Place  the  cut  fowl  on  this,  and  stew  it  very  slowly  on 
embers.  When  done,  drain  off  the  fat.  Pour  over  the 
glaze,  which  will  have  formed  at  the  bottom,  a  little 
Espagnohy  and  rub  in  a.  little  cayenne,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Meanwhile  have  ready  four  toasts.  Fry  them  in  the  fat 
you  poured  off  the  fowl,  dust  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  serve  them  between  the  slices  of  ham,  on  each  slice  of 
which  a  quarter  of  the  fowl  is  to  be  laid.     See  No.  640. 


HARE,  POULTRY,  AND  GAME.  401 

664.  Fowls  d  la  Bavigote, — Roast  the  fowls,  and  serve 
them  with  Bamgote-satice, 

665.  Poulets  d  la  Tartar e, — Roasted  young  fowls  with 
Tartar-sauce. — See  Nos.  592,  27,  and  Turkey  en  galantine, 

QQ5?  Fowl  d  la  Campire, — Slit  the  breast  of  a  roasted 
fowl  to  let  the  juice  flow  out ;  lay  sliced  raw  onions  in  the 
slits,  and  serve  with  a  hrown  poivrade  in  the  dish. 

QQQ,  Game  Salad, — Cut  a  cold  fowl  roasted,  if  for  this 
purpose  with  vegetables,  into  ten  handsome  pieces.  Soak 
them  in  a  basin  with  sliced  onion,  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Toss  them  about  to  imbibe  the  seasonings,  and  when 
they  have  lain  an  hour,  dress  the  dish  meant  to  receive  them 
with  a  border  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut,  and  stuck  into  a  thin 
border  of  butter.  Garnish  with  slices  divided  of  beetroot, 
cucumbers,  and ,  gherkins ;  and  upon  each  piece  of  egg 
place  a  fillet  of  anchovy.  Fill  the  centre  of  the  dish 
with  finely  chopped  salad  herbs,  and,  dipping  each  piece 
of  fowl  into  Mayonnaise  sauce,  build  them  up  as  a  pyra- 
mid, the  handsomest  uppermost ;  and  when  ready  to  serve, 
pour  sauce  Mayonnaise  over  the  centre.  This  is  nearly 
M.  Soyer's  way,  and  we  give  it  as  a  sort  of  general  receipt 
for  dressing  meat  and  fish  ^lads ;  the  only  thing  left  to 
the  cook  is  the  sauce  to  select  for  the  salad,  and  the 
proper  seasonings.  By  salad  herbs  we  mean  lettuce, 
endive,  cress,  and  whatever  of  this  kind  is  eaten  undressed, 

667.  Poulets  aux  Huitres — young  Fowls  with  Oyster- 
*attce.-^r-Stifi^en  a  quarter  of  a  hundred  of  oysters  in  their 
own  strained  juice.  Then  beard  and  stew  them  in  a  little 
veloutSy  or  in  two  ounces  of  butter  melted,  and, thickened 
with  a  little  flour ;  add  wliite  pepper,  the  squeeze  of  a 
lemon,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  pour  this  hot 
over  two  roasted  fowls,  or  serve  the  sauce  in  a  tureen 
separately. — See  No.  515. 

668.  Fricassee  des  Poulets  d  la  Paysanne^  a  plain 
Fricassee'  of  Chickens,  —  Singe  two  fat  wliite  chickens 
very  well.  Skin  and  carve  them  smoothly  with  a  very 
sharp  knife  exactly  as  at  table.  Wash  them  in  lukewarm 
water,  and  blanch  them  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes  to 
firm  the  flesh.  Plunge  them  in  cold  water,  and  then  put 
t^em   into  a  very  nice  stew-pan  with  three    ounces   of 

2c 


402 


CHAP.  II. — ^FRENCH  COOKERir. 


butter,  a  fagot  of  parsley  and  green  onions,  and  a  cupful 
of  nicely-trimmed  button-mushrooms.  When  warmed 
through,  and  a  little  tinged  with  colour,  dredge  on  flour, 
and  add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a  little  of  the  liquor  they 
were  blanched  in.  Let  the  fricassee  simmer  for  a  half- 
hour,  or  more  if  the  chickens  are  large.  Then  lift  the 
chickens  into  another  saucepan.  Skim  off  the  fat,  and 
reduce  the  sauce  they  are  cooked  in  by  a  quick  boil, 
and  strain  it  over  them.  When  about  ready  to  serve, 
add  a  thickening  of  the  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs. — ^See  Nos. 
621,  617. 

Scollops  of  cold  Chicken, — Mince  the  cold  chickens,  and 
heat  in  Bechamel-sauce ;  dish  in  scollop  shapes,  and  serve 
with  cucumber  sauce. 

669.  Cold  Fowl  d,  la  Mayonnaise, — ^Arrange  fillets  and 
neat  joints  in  the  dish,  round  hearts  of  very  delicate 
lettuces,  or  endive  trimmed ;  sauce  the  meat  when  to  be 
served  with  a  Mayonnaise^  and  garnish  with  water-cresses 
and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

VARIOUS  SMALL  FRENCH  DISHES. 

670.  Parisian  Rissoles  and  Rissoles  of  cold  roast  Chicken, 
— Mince  the  white  and  good  parts.  Warm  the  mince  in 
velouti  well  reduced.  Season  with  mace,  white  pepper, 
and  nutmeg,  and  when  cold,  roll  this  up  into  balls  the 
size  of  good  large  eggs.  Wrap  these  in  paste,  and  fry  and 
serve  them  with  fried  parsley. — See  No.  640. 

670."  Parisian  Rissoles,  —  Car&me's  receipt.  —  Roll  out 
very  thin  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Brioche  paste. 
Place  upon  it,  about  two  inches  from  the  edge^  minced 
fowl  or  game,  prepared  as  for  croquets,  and  rolled  up 
between  two  tea-spoons  in  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg. 
Place  these  an  inch  from  each  other;  egg  the  paste  all 
round,  and  fold  the  edge  of  it  over  the  balls  of  mince. 
Press  it  firmly  down,  and  with  a  pastry  stamp  two  inches 
wide,  cut  the  rissoles,  keeping  the  mincemeat  ball  exactly  in 
the  centre  of  each.  Make  twenty-four  for  a  dish.  Lay 
them  on  a  hot  tin  that  the  paste  may  rise,  and  fry  them  in 
lard  not  too  hot,  turning  with  a  skewer.  They  will  become 
quite  round.      When  of  a  fine  colour,  drain  them  on  a 


Various  sMiiLL  dishbs.  403 

cloth,  di'ess,  and  serve  directly.     They  may  also  be  made 
oblong,  or  like  crescents,  &c.  &c. 

671.  Salpifons, — These  elegant  little  dishes  are  made  of 
any  kind  of  left  poultry,  or  forcemeat,  or  of  the  more 
delicate  vegetables,  as  mushrooms  and  artichokes,  cooked 
separately,  and  served  together,  but  in  different  compart- 
ments of  the  same  dish.  Salpi^ons  are  usually  cooked  in 
Espagnohy  and  neatly  dished,  with  a  border,  and  division- 
lines  of  sippets.  They  may  be  strewed  with  crumbs,  and 
browned  with  a  salamander.  They  are  considered  genteel^ 
and  are  certainly  frugal  where  cookery  is  all  the  cost. 
They  are  a  variety  of  the  order  rissoles  or  hashes. 

672.  Salmi  de  Perdreatus^  Salmi  of  Partridges,  —  Par- 
roast  three  or  four  partridges  kept  till  they  have  taken  a 
little /tffl»«f.  When  cold,  skin  and  carve  them.  Put  them 
into  a  small  stew-pan,  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  four 
eschalots,  a  few  bits  of  dressed  ham,  seasoning-herbs  of  all 
kinds  that  you  like,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  peppercorns, 
with  the  trimmings  of  the  partridges,  a  half-pint  of 
Espagnole,  and  two  glasses  of  Madeira.  Let  this  simmer 
for  an  hour  very  gently.  Dish  the  birds,  and  strain  the 
skimmed  sauce  hot  over  them.  Serve  fried  bread  with  the 
salmi,  which  must  be  very  hot  and  high  seasoned  to  be  good 
for  any  thing. 

673.  Partridge  Salmi,  Sportsman* s  Fashion,  —  Put  cold 
roasted,  or,  if  done  on  purpose,  half-roasted  partridges, 
skinned  and  carved,  into  a  saucepan  with  a  small  glass  of 
eating-oil,  a  large  glass  of  wine,  pepper,  salt,  and  the 
grate  and  juice  of  lemon.  When  just  heated  through, 
serve  with  grilled  crusts.     See  Nos.  532,  533,  650. 

674.  Salmi  of  Wild  Duck  or  Teal  Ihick, — Make  a  sauce 
of  veal-gravy  with  cayenne.  Simmer  the  trimmings  of 
the  duck  in  this,  and  then  put  in  the  cold  roasted  duck, 
carved  and  skinned.  Simmer  till  hot.  Lift  the  meat  into 
a  small  stew-pan.  Skim  the  sauce,  and  strain  it  over  the 
u^eaty  adding  first  more  seasonings  if  needful.  Squeeze  a 
bitter  orange  over  the  sauce,  and  serve  the  dish  very  hot. 
— See  Nos.  631,  633.  Salmis  are  favourite  dishes  with 
epicures,  both  on  account  of  the  excellence  of  their  con- 
stituent parts,  and  their  elaborate  and  piquant  composition. 


404  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  OOOKERT. 

They  are  in  fact  a  species  of  moist  demls.  For  thorough- 
bred English  palates  more  hot  seasonings  will  be  requisite 
than  are  used  by  the  French  ;  and  this  must  be  attended 
to. 

674.'  Ho  boil  and  peel  Eggs. — Boil  them  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
drop  them  into  cold  water ;  roll  them  below  your  hand, 
and  the  shell  will  come  off  like  any  other  mould.  Plovers* 
or  Sea-Urd^  Eggs,  Boil  fifteen  minutes ;  serre  hot  on  a 
napkin,  or  cold,  laid  in  moss. 

675.  Eggs  dla  Tripe.  —  Peel,  slice,  and  fry  in  butter, 
three  or  four  Spanish  onions.  When  done,  dust  in  some 
flour,  and  let  it  catch  to  a  light  brown.  Put ,  in  a  little 
hot  milk,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  let  the  sauce  reduce.  Put 
to  this  a  dozen  small  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  pieces.  Mix 
them  gently  with  the  sauce  not  to  break  the  slices. 
Arrange  the  eggs  neatly  in  the  dish. 

676.  Eggs  in  Sauce  Robert. — Proceed  as  above  directed  ; 
but  brown  the  onions  over  a  brisk  fire,  and  moisten  with 
soup.  Reduce  the  sauce  by  boiling.  Add  a  tea -spoonful 
of  made-mustard,  and  stir  in  the  sliced  Q^gf^•  —  See  Nos. 
567,  668. 

677.  Eggs  d  la  MaUre  d* Hotel,  —  Do  these  white  as  eggs 
d.  la  Tripe,  but  throw  in  a  good  lump  of  butter  and  minced 
parsley, — Obs.  These  dishes,  though  the  best  of  their  kind, 
seem  of  little  comparative  importance ;  but  when  the  cook, 
or  the  mistress  of  a  family,  as  is  often  the  case,  is  racked 
for  something  to  fill  up  an  odd  corner,  they  afford  a  cheap 
and  ready  resource.  Eggs  dressed  in  this  last  way  will 
afterwards  make  an  admirable  sauce  for  poultry,  salt  cod, 
or  ling. 

678.  Fondu.  —  This  is  prepared  in  various  ways.  Mix 
grated  Parmesan  and  Gruyere  cheese,  in  equal  quantities, 
or  substitute  good  Glo'ster  or  Cheshire  for  the  latter  ;  add 
to  the  rasped  cheese  about  double  the  weight  of  cream,  or 
melted  butter,  with  beat  yolks  of  eggs ;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  separately,  and  having  whisked  the  mixture 
very  well,  put  pepper  and  a  little  salt  to  it,  and  then  stir 
the  beat  whites  lightly  in.  Either  bake  the  whole  in  a 
silver  or  block-tin  80uffl6-dish,  or  in  paper  cases.  Fill  them 
x>nly  half-full,  as  the  mixture  should  rise  very   much. 


Various  small  dishes.  405 

Serve  very  hot  in  the  second  course.     Fondu  is  cheese 
souffle.  —  See  RamMns^  No.  555. 

678.'  Hor$  ^CBWoreSy  or  small  dishes  handed  rcund  the 
table  €u  relishes  or  whets,  —  For  small  vol-au-ventSy  petites 
hcuchSes,  rissolesy  and  other  ffors  d'ceuvres,  roll  out  a 
pound  of  the  richest  puff  paste  ;  cut  the  vol-au- vents  with 
a  fluted  cutter  ahout  two  inches  wide.  Place  them  on  a 
floured  baking-tin,  egg  them  with  a  paste  brush,  and, 
dipping  a  plain  cutter  in  hot  water,  mark  out  the  top  of 
each  deeply.  Bake  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  about 
twenty  minutes ;  take  off  the  marked  lid  with  a  knife ; 
scoop  out  the  inside  paste,  and  fill  the  space  with  the 
particular  preparation,  which  gives  the  name. 

678.*  Petites  Vol-at^-vents  of  Lobster.  Prepare  from 
about  a  pound  of  puff-paste  a  dozen  or  more  small  voUau- 
vents.  When  they  are  baked  have  ready  the  meat  of  a 
hen  lobster  cut  in  dice,  and  the  spawn  pounded  with  an 
ounce  of  butter,  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Put  eight 
spoonfuls  of  white  sauce,  and  four  of  white  stock,  into  a 
saucepan  with  cayenne,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  essence  of  anchovies.  Stir  the  meat  into  the  hot  sauce  ; 
heat  it  through,  and,  filling  the  vol-au-vents,  dress  them 
on  a  napkin  pyramidically.  Fish  and  shell-fish  of  various 
sorts,  skates'  livers,  and  mackerels,  may  be  prepared  in 
the  same  way  as  Hors  d^osuvres. 

Another  kind  of  hors  ^muvreSy  named  Petites  Bouchees^ 
or  small  mouthfuls,  are  only  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in 
diameter,  and  the  paste  is  thin  in  proportion.  They  are 
made  of  several  sorts  of  fish,  of  skate  livers,  oysters,  fish 
roes,  beef  marrow,  game,  chicken.  Small  rissoles  are  yet 
another  form  of  the  same  relishing  or  stimulating  prepara- 
tions ;  and  so  are  small  eroustadeSy  croquettesy  and  esca^ 
lopes.  When  the  cook  knows  how  to  prepare  the  paste 
cases  under  their  various  names  and  forms,  the  rest  is 
more  easily  accomplished,  as  the  relishes  for  all  of  them 
are  made  in  nearly  the  same  way,  and  only  the  sauce  and 
seasonings  varied  to  suit  each  sort.  They  are  all  dressed 
pyramidically  upon  a  napkin.  Anchovies,  anchovy  or 
piquant  salads,  olives,  &c.  are  all  tastefully  dressed  in 
France,  and  served  as  whets  and  zests,  or  hors  d*ceuvres. 


406  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  COOKERY. 

PetU  Diablotins, — ^These  imps  are  made  sweet  by  pounded 
filberts  boiled  in  sweetened  cream,  thickened  with  rice- 
flour  to  a  soft  paste,  which  is  again  rolled  in  small  bits  in 
more  poonded  filberts,  and  cut  to  the  size  of  nuts.  These 
are  fried  for  a  minute  in  the  wire-basket  for  frying 
parsley ;  drained,  rolled  in  sugar,  and  served  either  as  an 
entrem^,  as  hors  d'ceuvresy  or  a  relish  with  wine. 

678.^  Petites  BcuchSes  d  la  Reine.  —  Make  the  cases  as 
small  vol-atHvents,  but  rery  upright  and  round,  and  cut  the 
paste,  seven  times  rolled  out,  with  a  fluted  cutter  two 
inches  wide.  It  must  for  these  preparations  be  the  very 
richest  puflP-paste.  Bake  the  vol-€nhveraSy  having  first 
glazed  them,  and  marked  the  cover.  When  baked,  put  to 
them  a  rich  Bechamel  sauce,  which  the  paste  must  have 
time  to  imbibe,  then  fill  with  a  mince  of  two  parts  breast 
of  chicken  and  one  part  tongue,  seasoned  with  salt,  white 
pepper,  and  juice  of  lemon.  The  more  sauce  they  imbibe, 
the  more  delicious  the  mouthfiil  is.  All  hars  d*ceuvres  of 
this  kind  are  served  piled  on  a  napkin.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  that  the  paste  does  not  allow  the  sauce  to  escape 
and  slop  the  dish.  To  prevent  this,  cooks  fortify  weak  or 
thin  parts  with  what  is  scooped  out.  and  plaster  with  beat 
egg. — See  Satmuy  PcOties, 

FRENCH  DISHES.  OF  FISH.^ 

679.  Court  Bouillon  for  dressing  Fish, — Where  fish  is 
boiled  every  day,  or  in  large  establishments,  this  is  a  very 
useful  broth,  as  well  as  in  Catholic  families  during  Lent. 
Season  an  imperial  gallon  of  water  with  salt,  three  carrots, 
a  bunch  of  parsley,  or  roots  of  parsley  and  green  onions, 
four  eschalots,  thyme,  basil,  two  bay-leaves,  a  half-ounce 
of  peppercorns,  and  a  few  cloves.  Stew  and  strain  this. 
When  you  use  it,  add  wine  or  vinegar.  It  will  answer 
repeatedly  by  being  boiled  up  ;  and  the  fish  boiled  in  it  on 
successive  days  will  enrich  it.     A  piece  of  butter  may  be 

*  Fish  is  not  so  well  dressed  in  Paris  as  in  London  or  at  the  Hague* 
The  cookinff  d.  la  Genevoise,  &c.,  is  in  fact  chiefly  practised  to  disguise 
the  want  of  that  first  quality  of  all  fish,  which  les  poissons  equivoques 
of  Paris  rarely  ^owem— 'freshness.  The  French,  however,  re-dress  fish 
better,  or  at  least  more  variously,  than  we  do,  as  in  vol-ati-vent,  and 
as  rissoles,  8aIpi<{ons,  but  above  all,  au  gnUm^  No.  688. 


FISH.  407 

put  in  at  first.    It  will  form  a  good  basis  for  maigrt  sauces 
to  fish.     This  is  also  called  eau  de  seL 

680.  Court  Bouillon  for  Fish  dressed  au  bleu, — Take 
the  same  herbs  as  above,  but  less  in  quantity,  and  fry 
them  a  little  in  butter.  Over  this  pour  two  bottles  of 
white  and  one  of  red  wine,  and  a  little  water.  In  this 
stew  tlie  fish,  nicely  cleaned.  This  rich  and  expensive 
marinade  will  do  repeatedly ;  water  to  be  added  to  it  when 
ag[ain  used. — Obs.  We  consider  this  receipt  useless  where 
fish  are  to  be  got  fresh.  Fish  dressed  au  bleu  are  eaten 
with  oil  and  vinegar,  mustard.  Sec. 

681.  Trout  or  Pike  d  la  Genevoise. — Clean  the  fish, 
but  do  not  scale  it.  Put  a  little  court  bouillon  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  parsley-roots,  cloves,  parsley,  two  bay  leaves, 
and  onions,  also  a  carrot  if  you  like.  When  these  have 
stewed  an  hour,  strain  the  liquor  over  the  pike  or  trout  in 
a  small  oval  fish-pan,  and  add  a  little  Madeira  to  it.  When 
boiled,  drain  the  fish,  and  take  oiF  the  scales  thoroughly  ; 
then  put  it  in  the  pan,  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  to  keep  it 
moist  and  hot.  Make  a  roux  or  thickening,  and  add  to  it 
veal-gravy  (or,  if  for  a  maigre  dish,  wine ;)  season  this  sauce 
with  bits  of  mushroom,  parsley,  and  green  onions.  Let 
it  stew  till  smooth.  Thicken  with  butter  kneaded  in  flour 
if  needful.  Strain  the  sauce  hot  over  the  dished  fish,  with 
a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a  little  essence  of  anchovy. — 
Obs.  For  red  trout  use  claret  or  some  red  wine,  witli 
mace,  and  more  cloves. 

N.  B.  Saumon  a  la  Grenewnse  is  dressed  exactly  in  this 
way,  which,  though  rich  cookery,  is  now  more  out  of 
vogue  than  fish  served  a  la  Matelote.  The  head  of  the  fish 
must  be  bound  up  to  keep  it  from  breaking,  which  is 
proper  in  dressing  all  large  fish. 

682.  Turbot  d  la  CrSme  d*AnckoiSy  Soyer*s  way. — 
Boil  the  fish,  and  dish  without  a  napkin,  as  the  following 
sauce  must  be  poured  over  the  turbot :  To  a  quart  of  melt«d 
butter,  add,  when  it  nearly  boils,  five  or  six  ounces  of 
anchovy  butter,  and  four  spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream. 
Mix,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Pour  it  over  the  dished 
turbot,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  capers  and  gherkins. 

Cold  Turbot  a  la  Crime  (gratini.) — Form  a  thick 


40d  CHAP.  II. FRENCH  COOKERT. 

smooth  batter  of  a  quart  of  milk  and  a  pound  of  flour  ; 
to  which  add  two  eschalots,  with  a  bay-leaf,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme,  tied  together ;  with  a 
little  salt,  white  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  con- 
stantly, and  boil  the  batter  over  a  sharp  iire  till  it  becomes 
a  thick  paste,  when  take  it  ofF,  and  stir  in  a  half-pound 
of  butter,  and  the  bieat  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Pass  it  through 
a  tammy,  and  pour  some  into  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  over 
which  place  a  layer  of  the  boned  (and,  if  you  like, 
skinned,)  cold  turbot.  Then  sauce,  and  again  fish  in 
alternate  layers,  finishing  with  sauce ;  strew  lightly  over 
the  whole  grated  crumbs,  and  grated  Parmesan.  Bake 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  temperate  oven,  brown  with  a 
salamander,  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish,  which,  if  not 
a  fine  one,  may  be  served  on  another  with  a  puff  napkin  : 
soles,  brill,  and  any  other  cold  white  fish  of  a  previous 
day,  may  be  thus  dressed  d  la  ereme, 

682.'  Fillets  of  Haddocks,  WhitingSy  or  Codlings^  with 
Maitre  d^Hotel  Sauce, — The  French  dress  fish  very  fre- 
quently in  fillets,  cut  neatly  from  the  bone  the  long  way 
on  both  sides.  The  practice  is  good,  and  now  generally 
adopted,  as  it  saves  trouble  to  the  eater,  the  dish  looks 
better,  and  if  the  debris  is  put  to  the  stock- pot  for  fish- 
soups  or  sauces,  there  is  no  waste.  Take  the  two  sides  or 
long  fillets  clean  off  the  bone. — Dry  and  flour,  or  better, 
egg  and  crumb  them.  Fry  them,  and,  when  ready,  serve 
under  them  a  simple  Mattre  d^ Hotel  sattce,  made  thus : — 
Stew  in  butter  a  large  spoonful  of  chopped  young  onions, 
parsley  and  mushrooms,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
This  we  conceive  a  useful  general  receipt. 

683.  Fish-Pudding,  a  common  and  favourite  way  of 
dressing  cold  Fish. — Take  any  sort  of  fish.  Trim  and 
chop  from  one  to  two  pounds  of  it,  and  season  this  with 
chopped  onions,  parsley,  and  mushrooms ;  also  salt  and 
pepper  ;  pound  this  with  two  raw  eggs.  Line  a  pudding- 
mould  with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  put  in  alternate  layers 
of  the  fish,  and  of  godiveau.  No.  692.*  Cover  with  bacon, 
and  bake  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  if  the  pudding  is  large. 
Pick  off  the  bacon,  or  paper  ;  turn  it  out,  and  serve  with 
a  plain  brown  sauce  poured  over  it. 


PisB.  40d 

684.  To  dress  Juliets  of  cold  Pike  a  la  Mattre  d^  Hotel, 
• — Cut  them  neatly.  Stew  them  in  butter  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Dish  the  fillets  neatly,  and  sauce  them  with  a  mattre 
d* hotel  sauce,  to  which  you  put  a  little  essence  of  anchovy. 
•^—Obs.  French  cooks  serve  cold  fish,  re-dressed  as  vol- 
avirventSy  croquets,  salades,  boudins,  and  in  many  ingenious 
modes  as  to  outward  show.     See  No.  123,  and  onwards, 

685.  Matelote  de  Carp  a  la  Boyale.  —  Clean  what 
number  of  carp  you  choose.  Cut  them  into  three  or  four 
pieces,  according  to  the  size.  Dry  these,  and  stew  them 
very  slowly  in  red  wine.  Make  a  sauce  matelote  (see  No. 
696,)  but  use  the  wine  in  which  the  carp  is  stewed  both 
from  economy  and  to  have  the  full  flavour  of  the  fish. 
Add  also  a  dozen  of  cleaned  mushrooms.  Dish  the  fish, 
the  heads  in  the  middle,  and  strain  the  prepared  sauce  hot 
over  them.  Place  the  small  stewed  onions  and  the  mush- 
rooms, dressed  in  the  sauce,  round  the  fish,  and  garnish 
with  the  soft  roes  stewed  in  vinegar. — Ohs,  This  sauce, 
and  all  fish-sauces,  should  be  of  good  consistence,  that  it 
may  adhere  to  the  fish. 

686.  Perches  au  Vin^  Perches  in  Wine, — Scale  and 
clean  the  perch.  Cook  them  in  good  stock  and  a  little 
white  wine,  with  a  high  seasoning  of  parsley,  chives, 
cloves,  &c.  Thicken  a  little  of  this  liquor  for  sauce. 
Add  to  it  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  anchovy- 
butter. —  Obs,  Always  use  white  wine  with  white  fish, 
and  red  wine  with  red-coloured  fish. 

687.  Perche  d  la  Mattre  d* Hotel.  —  Boil  some  salt, 
pepper,  parsley,  and  chives  in  water,  and  in  this  bouillon 
boil  the  perch.  Drain  and  dish  them,  and  cover  them 
with  a  mattre  ^hotel  sauce, 

688.  Soles,*  Flounders^  and  other  small  flat  Fish^  or 
Fillets  of  Turbot^  S^c,  au  Gratin. — Have  a  flat  silver 
dish,  or  tin  baking-pan,  and  spread  a  bit  of  fresh  butter 
over  it.  Mince,  very  finely,  parsley,  eschalots,  mushrooms ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  fry  the  herbs,  and  lay  them 
in  your  buttered  dish.  Place  your  fish,  neatly  cut  and 
trimmed,  over  this,  and  cover  with  fine  bread-crumbs. 

*  This  and  canapes  of  skates^  livers  are  among  the  recettes  o/tmen- 
taires  of  a  celebrated  Parisian  Society  of  Gourmands. 


410  CHAP.  II. FRENCH  OOOKERr. 

Over  this  stick  a  few  bits  of  butter ;  moisten  with  a  little 
white  wine ;  cook  under  a  furnace  with  a  few  embers, 
that  the  gratin  may  get  crisp ;  squeeze  lemon  over  your 
dish,  and  serve  it  very  hot.  The  gratin  may  be  browned 
with  a  salamander,  and  fried  sippets  may  be  stuck  over 
the  dish.  Small  imdressed  fish  may  be  divided,  have  the 
bones  taken  out,  and  be  baked  au  gratin,  arranging  the 
pieces  neatly  en  mirotcn, — No.  623. 

689.  Other  French  dishes  of  fish.— %/bAn  Dor^e  en  Ma- 
telote, —  Stuff  with  half  a  pound  of  a  fish  forcemeat.  No. 
149.  Boil  the  fish  in  a  roomy  kettle,  throwing  in  a  bunch 
of  sweet  and  one  of  savoury  herbs,  three  onions,  a  carrot, 
a  turnip,  a  bay-leaf,  a  head  of  celery,  a  table-spoonful  of 
salt,  two  glasses  of  red  wine,  and  two  of  vinegar.  Serve 
with  a  matelote  sauce,  to  which  add  three  dozen  oysters, 
blanched  and  bearded.  Serve  hot.  Slices  of  brill,  or 
laige  soles,  or  turbot  may  be  served  en  matelote  ;  d  la  mai- 
tre  cT  hotely  or  a  la  Hollandaise,  One  is  rejoiced  to  find 
that  French  cookSy  in  England,  are  beginning  to  dress  sal- 
mon at  least —  au  natureL  We  must  again  express  ad- 
miration of  their  ways  of  dressing  cold  fish,  au  groHn^  a 
la  creme,  d*  anckois^  and  so  forth,  but  doubt  of  their  excessive 
meddling  with  fresh  fish.  We  would  except  some  of  their 
dishes  of  fresh  cod,  of  which  we  like  the  cabillaud  d  la 
Hollandaise  and  d  la  Juive,  made  thus.  Stew  four  spoonfuls 
ef  chopped  onions  in  two  of  salad  oil.  Add  a  half-pound  of 
melted  butter,  two  spoonfuls  of  Harvey's  sauce,  two 
essence  of  anchovies,  and  two  of  white  vinegar.  In  this 
prepared  sauce,  stew  two  cuts  of  cod.  Give  them  a  quick 
boil  up,  and  simmer  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Dish  the 
slices.  Keep  them  hot,  and  with  a  little  sugar  boil 
down  the  sauce  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Garnish  with 
fried  slices  of  onion,  and  quenelles  of  cod's  liver, — an  addi- 
tion better  omitted. 

M.  Soyer  has  a  receipt  nearly  the  same  as  this,  for 
haddocks,  which  he  christens  d  la  Walter  Scott. 

690.  Mbrue  d  la  bonne  Femme,  Salt  Cod  in  a  plain 
way. — Prepare  the  salt  fish  as  directed  at  No.  161.  Have 
some  boiled  potatoes  in  the  shape  of  corks,  cut  these  in 


FOB€BMEAT  IN  GENBBA.L.  41 1 

slices  about  the  size  of  a  shilling,  and  warm  them  with  the 
fish  in  melted  butter. 

691.  Turbat-roey  a  small  elegant  Dish,  —  Handle  so  as 
not  to  mangle  the  roe ;  blanch  it,  slice  and  hnish  in  the 
oven,  and  serve  as  a  ragout  or  as  a  white  fricassee.  Garnish 
with  shoes  of  lemon. 

FRBNCH  FORCEMEAT  IN  GENERAL. 

692.  Quenellei  and  Boudins, — The  French  claim  supre- 
macy over  the  whole  civilized  world  in  the  art  of  prepar- 
ing/ircet.  Without  presuming  to  question  their  superio- 
rity, it  is  possible  for  a  cook  of  ordinary  abilities  and 
industry  to  attain  a  competent  knowledge  of  this  high 
mystery,  without  serving  a  regular  apprenticeship  at  the 
French  stove,  provided  she  give  respectful  attention  to  the 
manner  in  which  foreign  artists  proceed.  The  French 
have  reduced  the  art  of  preparing  forcemeat  to  fixed 
principles.  As  constituents,  they  have  the  godiveaUy  the 
panadcy  the  farce  of  fowl,  the  graUny  all  cut  and  dry ;  and 
these  they  laboriously  compound,  with  a  degree  of  patience 
which  goes  far  to  redeem  their  national  character  from  the 
charge  of  fickleness  and  levity.  Of  these  farces  are  formed 
the  quenelle  and  houdiny  a  class  of  preparations  which, 
though  made  of  forcemeat,  forms,  like  our  sausages,  a  dis- 
tinct order  of  dishes.  The  French  forcemeats  are  indeed 
worthy  of  the  profound  attention  of  every  refined  epicure, 
and  ought  to  supplant  our  home-made  crude  compounds 
with  all  speed. 

The  first  element  in  their  composition  is  the  Gadwean 
{of  which  also  excellent  PaUies  fnay  he  tnade.), 

692."  Godiveau, — Scrape  a  pound  of  a  fillet  of  white  well- 
fed  veal,  and  mince  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef-suet,  free 
from  strings,  skins,  and  kernels.  Chop,  of  scalded  parsley, 
young  onions,  and  also  mushrooms  enough  to  season  this 
meat.  Add  pepper,  salt,  allspice,  and  mace,  and  pound 
the  whole  very  well,  mixing  in  three  raw  eggs  at  different 
times,  and  a  little  water. — To  prove  forcemeai,  —  When 
very  well  pounded,  make  up  a  small  ball  of  the  farce,  and 
boil  it  in  boiling  water,  to  try  if  it  be  light,  well  seasoned, 
and  good.    By  this  proof-ball  be  guided  either  in  adopting 


412  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  OOOKBRT. 

the/arcey  or  in  adding  another  egg  to  give  firmness,  of* 
more  water  to  liquify  the  godiveati^  or  whatever  it  wants. 
6d3.  GraUn,  —  This  farce  may  be  made  either  of  the 
white  parts  of  a  fowl  or  of  veal.  Cut  a  half-poimd  of  the 
fillet  into  small  bits,  and  toss  them  over  the  fire,  in  butter, 
for  ten  minutes,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs.  Drain  off 
the  butteh  Mince  the  meat,  and  then  pound  it,  if  for 
fowls,  with  the  livers  parboiled,  veal-udder  parboiled  and 
skinned,  or  butter  instead  of  udder,  and  panada^  (see  next 
receipt.)  Have  as  much  butter  or  veal-udder  as  of  each 
of  the  other  ingredients,  «.  e.  a  third  of  each.  Pound  the 
whole  together,  adding  an  egg  at  a  time  till  you  have 
three,  as  in  the  godiveau.  Prove  the  forcemeat  by  poach- 
ing a  small  ball  of  it. 

694.  Panada  far  Forcemeais. — Soak  slices  of  bread  in 
hot  milk.  Press  out  the  milk  when  the  bread  is  quite 
moist,  and  beat  up  the  bread  with  a  little  rich  broth  or 
white  sauce,  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Stir  till  this  becomes 
somewhat  dry  and  firm.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
pound  the  whole  well  together. 

695.  QueneUeade  VolailU,  or  Ibrcemeat'Balls  of  Poultry 
€Uf  a  Dish.  —  Strip  ofip  the  skin,  pull  out  the  sinews,  and 
mince  and  pound  the  best  parts  of  young  fowls,  till  the 
meat  will  rub  through  a  sieve.  Have  one  part  of  this,  one 
of  panada,  and  another  of  veal-udder,  parboiled  and 
skinned.  Pound  the  whole  well  together,  and  season  with 
salt,  white  pepper,  and  mace.  Put  raw  yolks  to  the  com* 
pound,  and  beat  it  perfectly  smooth.  Prove  it  as  directed. 
No.  692.  If  not  firm  enough,  add  more  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 
Make  up  the  quenelles  of  egg-shapes,  and  poach  or  bake 
them. — ^N.  B.  Quenelles  may  be  made  of  rabbit,  partridge, 
or  pheasant,  in  the  same  way.  Serve  with  clear  gravy. 
They  are  considered  a  delicate  dish. 

696.  Boudins  d  la  Richelieu^  (^Puddings  of  Rabbits  or 
Poultry.)  —  Make  a  forcemeat  of  rabbits  or  poultry,  as 
directed  for  quenelles  ;  but  instead  of  panada  use  pounded 
potatoes.  Put  to  the  farce  dressed  onions  or  mushrooms 
chopped,  in  suitable  quantity.  Spread  the  forcemeat 
smooth  on  the  dresser,  and  with  a  knife  roll  it  up  in  small 
sausages  or  boudins  ;  or  mould  it  to  a  proper  shape,  and 


70BC1EMEA.T  IN  GENERAL.  413 

bake  the  houdins.     Whether  boiled  or  baked,  serve  with 
Brown  Italian  sauce. 

Boudins  may  be  made  of  all  sorts  of  game,  poultry,  also 
of  whitings,  craw-fish,  &c. 

696.'  Boudins  BlanCy  an  exceedingly  good  kind  of  White 
Pftddings, — Cook  a  dozen  small  onions  in  broth.  Make 
a  rather  dry  panada  of  cream  or  milk,  and  pound  this  with 
the  onions  and  some  pounded  sweet  almonds.  Put  to  this 
pig's  caul,  cut  in  little  bits,  some  yolks  of  eggs,  a  little 
cream,  the  white  parts  of  raw  chickens  finely  minced, 
with  salt  and  spices.  Pound  the  whole  well,  and  try  it 
by  dressing  a  little  in  a  small  pan  before  you  fill  the  skins. 
Boil  the  boudins  in  milk  and  water,  and  prick  the  skins 
to  prevent  them  from  bursting.  When  wanted,  dip  them 
in  boiling  water  to  heat,  and  finish  them  in  a  paper  case 
in  a  Dutch  oven. — See  National  DisheSy  No.  738. 

696.^  Macaroni  in  the  richest  It<^ian  mode.  —  Prepare 
pipe  or  ribbon  Macaroni  as  at  No,  557.  Prepare  also 
Sughlio  as  at  No.  769.  Drain  the  boiled  macaroni,  stew 
it  very  slowly  in  the  sughlio  for  fifteen  minutes.  Dish 
and  grate  Parmesan  and  bread-crumbs,  with  bits  of  butter 
over  it,  which  brown  with  a  salamander,  and  serve  hot. 
To  sughlio  French  cooks,  of  any  refinement,  prefer  veal 
gravy,  or  for  a  more  delicate  dish,  Espagnole. 

MODES  OF  FRENCH  COOKERY. 

697.  Many  of  these  modes  we  have  seen ;  and  as  many  more 
remain.  The  galantine  is  important ;  and  as  an  example 
we  take  the  galantine  de  dinde.  Bone  a  turkey ;  truss  the 
legs  inside  ;  spread  over  it  a  layer  of  prepared  forcemeat, 
and  on  that  strips  of  cooked  lean  ham,  fat  bacon,  and  lean 
veal.  These  must  be  laid  in  alternately,  and  thus  con- 
trasted. Season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  then  cover  with  a 
layer  of  forcemeat,  and  fill  the  turkey,  keeping  it  of  a  good 
shape.  Sew  it  up,  to  keep  shape,  and  put  it  in  a  cloth  to 
stew  in  veal  or  turkey  stock.  Stew  for  three  hours. 
Probe  it ;  and  if  ready,  undo  the  bandages  ;  place  it  in  a 
dish  where  it  can  be  pressed  with  a  weight  till  cold,  but 
kept  in  shape.  Have  aspic  jelly  ready,  with  which,  in 
croutons  and  roughed  Mts^  like  crystals,  decorate  the 
galantine,  forming  in  aspic  a  star,  a  flower-de-luce,  or  any 


414  CHAP.  II. — FRSXCH  COOKBRY. 

fanciful  and  light  design  upon  the  top  of  it.  Galantines 
are  hy  French  cooks  decorated  in  as  many  ways  as  are 
ladies'  caps  by  Parisian  milliners  ; — with  eggs,  truffles, 
beetroot,  &c. ;  but  above  all  aspic,  which  may  be  much 
varied  in  form  and  colour.  AH  kinds  of  game  and 
poultry  are  thus  dressed,  and  also  eels  and  other  fish,  by 
stuffing  and  decorating.  None  are  more  stylish  than 
galantines  of  pheasants  or  grouse. 

Blancs  and  PoeleSy  to  prepare  for  cooking  JFreneh  Dishes. 
— A  Blanc  is  a  rich  broth  or  gravy,  in  which  the  French 
cook  palates,  lamb's  head,  and  many  other  things.  It 
is  made  thus  : — A  pound  of  beef-kidney  fat,  minced,  put  on 
with  a  sliced  carrot,  an  onion  stuck  with  two  cloves,  parsley, 
green  onions,  slices  of  lemon  without  the  peel  or  seeds  ;  or, 
if  much  is  wanted,  two  pounds  of  fat,  and  two  lemons. 
When  the  fat  is  a  good  deal  melted,  put  in  water  made 
briny  with  salt ;  and  when  done,  keep  the  Blanc  for  use. 

To  Poele,  and  to  prepare  the  Poele* — A  pound  of  the  white 
of  fresh  fat  bacon,  a  pound  of  suet  or  veal-kidney  fat,  both 
hashed,  and  a  pound  of  fresh  butter.  Fry,  together  with  two 
pounds  of  veal,  cut  in  small  bits,  for  ten  minutes,  and  add 
a  quart  and  a  half  of  water,  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  salt, 
an  onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  a  bay-leaf,  a  few  sprigs 
of  thyme,  a  handful  of  parsley  and  young  onions.  Stew 
till  the  onion  looks  pulpy.     Strain  and  keep  for  use. 

To  Poele  Chickens,  S^c. — ^This  is  very  expensive  cookery. 
The  fowl  must  be  trussed  as  for  roasting,  and  laid  on  a  layer 
of  fat  bacon,  and  have  the  liquid  poured  over  it.  It  should 
have  butter,  salt,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  put  into  the 
inside. — See  Braising,  page  388. 

FRENCH  DISHES  OF  VEGETABLES,  FRUIT,  &C. 

See  also  from  No.  188  to  241. 
French  cooks  claim  superiority  for  their  skill  and 
variety  in  dressing  vegetables  ;  and  the  assumption  is  in 
this  instance  just.  Vegetable  preparations  enter  largely 
into  both  their  courses,  usually  affording  two  entries,  or 
substitutes  for  entries,  for  an  ordinary  dinner,  and  four  for 
a  larger  one.  Great  improvements  have  been  made  of 
late,  even  among  ourselves,  in  preparing  the  more  delicate 
and  showy  vegetable  dishes  ;   and  it  is  to  be  hoped  that 


YEOETABLES,  FRriT,  &C,  415 

British  cooks,  besides  imitating  the  Fi*ench  in  saucing 
their  cauliflowers  and  artichokes,  will  soon  copy  th^ir 
manner  of  braising  cabbages  and  carrots  for  homely,  every- 
day use. 

698.  Asparagus  Peas  for  the  second  Course,  an  entre- 
mets.* —  Pick  and  cut  some  young  asparagus  into  small 
equal  bits,  rejecting  what  is  woody.  Boil  these  peas  in 
salt  and  water,  and  drain  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth.  Then 
give  them  a  fry  in  butter,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley  and 
green  onions,  and  a  sprig  of  mint.  Dredge  flour  over  them. 
Put  in  a  bit  of  sugar,  and  moisten  with  boiling  water. 
Give  them  a  quick  boil.  When  boiled  down,  take  out  the 
fagot  of  parsley  and  onions,  and  thicken  the  sauce  with 
the  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  up  with  cream  or  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  salt  and  grated  nutmeg. 

698.*  Macedoine  de  LegumeSy  or  of  rods, — Clean  four  deep- 
red  smooth  large  carrots :  scoop  out  the  zest  or  red  part  the 
size  of  peas :  simmer  them  for  fifteen  minutes.  Scoop  out, 
same  size,  six  turnips,  and  pare  twenty  small  button  onions. 
Fry  them  in  two  ounces  of  butter  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
sugar  for  five  or  six  minutes,  when  add  the  carrots.  Fry 
the  whole  till  covered  with  glaze,  and  add  near  a  half-pint 
of  Bechamel.  Let  the  Macedoine  reduce  till  rather  thick. 
Season  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  before  serving  add 
three  spoonfuls  of  a  liaison  of  yolk  of  eggs  and  cream. 

699.  To  dress  Green  Peas  {the  Petits  Pew*.)  — Boil 
a  large  pint  of  the  finest  green  peas,  with  salt  and  a 
good  piece  of  butter  rubbed  among  them.  When  ten- 
der, drain  them,  lifting  them  out  of  the  colander  with 
your  hand  that  the  refuse  may  be  left.  Stew  them  with 
a  fagot  of  parsley  and  green  onions.  The  colour  will 
now  deepen.  Dredge  a  good  deal  of  flour  over  them,  and 
stir  a  piece  of  butter  among  them,  with  salt,  a  very  little 
grated  Parmesan  (if  you  like,)  and  a  knob  of  sugar  first 
dipped  in  boiling   water.      Let  them  get  quite   dry,  and 

*  Far  be  from  us  the  presumption  of  attempting  to  teach  the  English 
cook  -what  French  artistes  call  entrees  and  what  entremets.  We  would 
as  soon  attempt  to  teach  her  the  gender  of  all  the  nouns  in  their  lan- 
guage. We  do  not  know  ourselves — ^nohody  does.  On  this  point  the 
great  Ude  would  differ  with  the  greater  Careme. 


41G  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  COOKERY. 

dress  them  high  on  the  dish.  —  Pease-sauce  or  puree  of 
Peas, — Stew  a  pint  or  quart  of  very  young  peas  till  tender, 
with  chopped  lettuce,  parsley,  and  young  onions.  Ruh 
the  pur6e  through  a  tammy-cloth,  and  add  good  gravy. 
It  is  served  with  various  meats.  —  Obs,  Consomm6  added 
to  any  left  Petit  Pois  will  make  an  excellent  extempore 
potage. 

700.  Sea  Kale  for  the  second  Course,  —  "We  do  not  know 
that  this  vegetable  is  naturalized  in  France  even  yet ;  but 
after  boiling  it  in  plenty  of  water,  with  salt,  French  cooks 
in  this  country  drain  it,  and  serve  with  sauce  blanche  or 
veloute.  Sauce  blanche^  i,  e.  butter  melted  in  cream,  is 
perhaps  the  most  appropriate  sauce  for  all  vegetables,  but 
for  the  danger  of  its  running  to  oil,  which  makes  veloiUe  or 
cream-sauce  preferable  in  nice  cookery. — See  No.  190. 

701.  Artichoke -bottoms  en  Canapes, -^  ^&ye  the  boiled 
artichokes  nicely  trimmed,  and  the  chokes  removed.  When 
cold,  fill  the  bottoms  with  anchovy-butter,  and  decorate 

,  with  pickled  capers,  gherkins,  and  beetroot  carved,  con- 
trasting the  colours. — See  No.  191. 

702.  Artichokes  d  Vltalienne. — Trim  and  quarter  the 
artichokes,  and  boil  them  in  salt  and  water.  Take  out 
the  chokes.  Drain  and  arrange  the  quarters  with  the 
leaves  outwards.  Pour  a  white  Italian  sauce  over  them, 
and  garnish  with  cresses. 

703.  French  Beans  a  la  Poulette,  —  When  boiled  (ais 
directed  page  232)  very  green,  drain  them.  Reduce  some 
sauce  toumee.  Thicken  it  with  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
pour  this  over  the  boiled  beans. 

704.  Windsor  Beans  a  la  Poulette,  —  Boil  fresh  young 
beans.  Stew  them,  first  taking  ofi^  the  skins,  and  sauce 
them  with  veloute, 

704."  Navets  Vierge, — ^Peel  and  scoop  out  to  the  size  of 
marbles,  &ve  or  six  good  white  turnips.  Fry  them  with  two 
ounces  of  butter  and  one  of  sugar.  When  covered  with 
glaze,  add  above  a  quarter  pint  of  Bechamel  or  any  good 
white  sauce,  and  a  half  glass  of  cream.  Season  with  a  very 
little  salt,  and  white  pepper.  Yellow  turnips  may  be  dressed 
as  above,  brown,  by  using  a  quarter  pint  of  brown  sauce, 
a  glassful  of  Espagnole,  and  seasoning  with  a  bunch  of 


TEOETABLES,  FRUIT,  &C.  41 7 

parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf,  pepper  and  salt :  skim  carefully. 
Pick  out  the  parsley  and  bay  leaf,  and  serve  the  ragout. 

705.  Potatoes  d  la  Mattre  cTBoteL — Peel  boiled  potatoes, 
and  turn  them  the  size  of  thick  corks.  Cut  these  in 
slices  a  half-inch  thick.  Put  them  into  a  stew>pan  with 
some  sliced  green  onions  and  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and 
butter.  Moisten  with  stock,  ana  toss  them  till  the  parsley 
is  cooked. 

706.  Endive  for  the  second  Course,  —  Clean  the  en- 
dive by  frequent  washing,  and  plunge  it  head  down- 
most  in  salt  and  water,  to  draw  out  those  insects  which 
often  lodge  in  the  leaves  of  vegetables.  Blanch  the 
heads,  drain  them,  and,  when  cold,  chop  them  fine.  Stew 
them  in  veal-gravy  with  salt.  When  tender,  add  a  little 
Espagnohy  and  serve  with  poached  eggs  for  second-course 
dished,  or  under  fricandeau,  or  with  hashed  mutton. 

707.  Compote  de  Cerises^ — Preserved  Cherries,  —  To  a 
half-pound  of  clarified  sugar  put  a  pound  of  cherries,  of 
which  half  the  stalk  is  cut  away.  Give  them  a  boil  of 
three  minutes.  Skim,  and  serve  them  in  a  glass  dish. 
Take  out  the  stones  and  cut  away  the  stalks,  if  wished. 

707.'  Abricots  au  Riz, — Divide  eighteen  or  twenty-four 
apricots.  Fry  them  quickly,  with  the  kernels  blanched, 
and  skinned  in  a  syrup  made  of — for  twenty-four — a 
half-pound  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  When 
tender,  take  them  up  to  cool,  and  to  the  syrup  add  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  apricot  marmalade.  Have  previously 
prepared  six  ounces  of  rice  slowly  cooked  in  milk, 
sweetened  with  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  enriched  with 
four  of  butter,  and  four  beat  eggs.  Let  the  rice,  with 
these  additions,  thicken,  stirring  it.  Dress  it  on  the  dish, 
eight  inches  wide  and  three  high,  with  a  hollow  in  the 
centre  to  receive,  heaped  pyramidically,  the  prepared  apri  • 
cots.  Garnish  to  taste  with  preserved  angelica. — Ohs,  This 
receipt  is  applicable  to  pears  and  apples,  au  riz  ;  and  the 
latter  may  be  served  hot. 

708.  Pears  in  Supar. — Put  a  clove  into  the  eye  of  each 
pear.  Throw  them  into  hot  water  to  scald  them.  Pare 
and  keep  them  in  water  to  preserve  the  colour.  Boil  them 
in  a  very  thin  syrup  of  a  large  pint  of  water  to  a  half- 

2d 


4^  8  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  COOKEBT. 

pound  of  sugar.    Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serre  in 
a  glass  dishy  in  the  symp. 

Another  im^.-^  Divide  large  pears.  Take  out  the 
seeds.  Blanch  them  in  hot  water  and  lemon-juice,  to 
keep  the  colour  white.  Pare  them.  Throw  them  into 
fresh  water,  and  give  them  a  few  hoils  in  thin  syrup  hefore 
serring  them  in  it.  Apples  may  he  dressed  in  the  same 
way. 

709.  Apples  d  la  Portugtiaiee,  —  Wash  and  core  fine 
large  rennets,  hut  do  not  pare  them.  Prick  them  with  a 
knife,  and  hoil  them  in  thin  syrup.  Then  put  them  in  an 
earthen  dish  under  a  small  furnace,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven, 
to  hrown,  hasting  them  with  the  syrup. 

710.  Peaches  in  Stigar, — Blanch  six  or  eight  in  hot 
water  that  they  may  easily  peel,  then  give  them  a  hoil  in 
syrup,  and  serve.  The  French  serve  all  sorts  of  fruit  en 
eompotesy  which  form  tasteful  and  economical  dishes.  .  Serve 
all  these  in  a  comp6te  dish  or  any  suitable  glass  dish. — 
See  Ornamental  Dishes. 

710.*  Miroton  de  P(>mme.  —  Pare  a  dozen  russet,  or 
best  American  apples.  Slice  them  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.  Pierce  out  the  cores  with  a  marked  paste- 
cutter.  Melt  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  to  which  put  six 
of  best  pounded  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and 
grate  of  one.  Fry  the  apples  gently  in  this,  and  dress 
them  either  en  miroton^  or  piled  up  in  the  dish,  and  pour 
over  them  a  spoonful  of  white  currant  jelly,  heated  in  a 
glass  of  Madeira. 

711.    OMBLETTES  A  LA  CELESTINE. 

Make  a  smooth  batter,  with  four  ounces  of  pounded 
sugar,  four  of  sifted  flour,  four  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  rich 
milk.  Have  a  very  little  butter  very  hot,  in  an  omelette-pan, 
into  which  pour  two  large  table-spoonfuls  •  of  the  batter. 
When  finned,  turn  over  the  omelette  upon  a  flat  saucepan 
lid,  buttered  and  hot,  and  from  this  to  a  cloth.  Make  as 
many  omelettes  in  this  manner  as  you  wish.  Lay  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  apricot-jam,  orange  marmalade,  or  any  kind 
of  preserve  you  like,  upon  each.  Lay  also  a  little  frangi- 
pane  upon  each :  fold  up  each  omelette,  and  trimming  the 
edges  neatly,  sift  sugar  over  them,  and  glaze  lightly  with 


PASTRY.  419 

a  Balamander.  Dress  them  pyramidically  upon  a  napkin, 
and  serve  very  hot.  Pancakes  et  la  Confiture  are  nearly 
the  same. — See  No.  879. 

711.*  JFhtngipane.  —  Beat  up  six  eggs  with  two  large 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  to  which  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  a 
quarter  pound  of  pounded  sugar,  and  stir  till  these  thicken 
and  are  on  the  eve  of  boiling.  Now  add  the  grate  of  a 
lemon,  some  broken  ratafias,  and  a  glass  of  rum  or  brandy. 
Stir  up,  and  pour  in  two  ounces  of  butter  fried  till  it 
take  a  little  colour.  Frangipaf^e  ra&y  be  flavoured  mth 
orange,  coffee,  vanilla,  orange-flower  essence,  or  any  article 
suitable  to  the  dish  it  is  to  be  used  with.  Frangipane 
is  equivalent  to  our  cold  custard  and  prepared  creams,  to 
serve  with  fruit-pies  and  tarts. 

711.'  GrSme  PcUissiere,  —  the  cream  which  the  French 
use  instead  of  our  cold  custard,  for  saucing,  t.  e.  eating 
with  fruit-tarts  and  tartlets,  pufi^,  cannelonSy  &c.  —  Rub 
in  lumps  two  ounces  of  sugar  on  the  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  two  ounces 
of  the  finest  flour ;  whisk  it  well.  Add  to  it  gradually  a 
pint  of  boiling  milk,  (cream  if  you  like,)  the  flavoured 
sugar,  and,  if  no  cream,  a  half-ounce  of  melted  butter. 
Whisk  again.  Stir  it  like  custard  over  a  clear  fire,  till  it 
thicken.  An  ounce  of  crushed  ratifias,  No.  999,  will 
improve  this  cream,  or  flavour  may  be  given  by  any 
favourite  liqueur. 


FASHIONABLE  FRENCH  SMALL  PASTRY  FOR  ENTREMETS. 

There  is  no  end  to  the  varieties  of  paste  which  French 
pastry-cooks  prepare,  nor  yet  to  the  infinity  of  prepara- 
tions to  which  the  different  sorts  are  applied.  We  give  a 
small  selection  and  the  best  of  the  pastes.  Study  from 
Nos.  771  to  779,  and  also  82a 

712.  Paste  Royaly  to  make, — Put  four  ounces  of  butter 
into  a  stew-pan  with  a  large  glassful  of  water,  two  ounces 
of  beat  sugar,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel.  When  the  butter 
is  nearly  melted,  shake  some  dry  flour  to  it  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Take  out  the  lemon-peel,  and  with  your  hand  put 
in  as  much  more  flour  as  the  boiling  liquid  will  take. 


420  CHAP.  II. — FRENCH  COOKKRT. 

stirriiig  briskly  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  it  come  easily 
from  the  sides  of  the  stew-pan.  Put  it  in  another  pan. 
Let  it  cool.  Break  an  egg  into  it,  and  stir  it  well  to 
mix,  and  afterwards  three  or  fonr  more  eggs,  till  the  paste 
becomes  tenacious  and  smooth.  This  is  used  for  many  small 
articles,  as  Pains  d  la  Duchessey  ChotuVy  Chantilly  baskets  ; 
in  short,  it  may  be  moulded  or  stamped  into  any  fonn, 
according  to  the  ingenuity  of  the  cook.  The  things  made 
of  it,  when  arranged  on  paper,  may  be  iced,  baked  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  dried  before  the  fire.  This  paste  swells 
very  much,  which  must  be  considered  in  forming  things 
of  it.— See  Paste,  771-779. 

713.  Choux  of  Paste  Royal,  —  Form  the  choux  in  the 
shape  of  balls  larger  than  children's  marbles.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Dry  them,  and  make  a  small  opening  in 
the  side,  into  which  put  a  little  of  any  sweetmeat  you  like. 

714.  Pains  a  la  Duchesse.  —  Make  as  the  choux,  but 
flatten  them  with  the  rolling-pin  to  the  length  of  four 
inches.  When  baked,  slit  them  open  at  the  end,  and 
introduce  the  sweetmeat. 

715.  Les  Gimhlettes  d  PArtois.  —  Make  as  the  choux , 
but  gire  them  a  deep  dint  in  the  middle  before  baking. 
Widen  this  by  turning  your  finger  round  it.  .  Sift  sugar 
over  them  when  just  done  ;  glaze  with  a  salamander,  and 
put  the  sweetmeat  in  the  cavity. 

716.  Les  Petits  Choux  et  les  Gimhlettes  Pralines* — 
Make  them  rather  smaller  than  above  directed  ;  and 
before  baking,  but  when  glazed,  sprinkle  finely-chopped 
sweet  almonds  and  sugar  over  them,  and  garnish  with 
sweetmeats,  as  the  others.  P6te  Royale  may,  as  formerly 
said,  be  rolled  out,  stamped  with  paste-cutters,  and  dressed 
in  any  form  you  choose,  serving  any  sort  of  preserved 
sweetmeat  neatly  upon  it. 

717.  Brioche  Paste, — Every  one  who  has  had  the  happi- 
ness of  seeing  Paris,  has,  of  course,  paid  for  it  in  many 
ways,  besides  by  being  deafened  with  shrill  cries  of 
"  Brioches,**  "  Gateaux  de  Nanterre,'*  &c.  The  brioche  paste 
is,  notwithstanding,  the   first-rate  article  of  its  kind  in 

*  What  we  would  call  confected.' 


PASTRY.  421 

Ehirope,  when  properly  prepared,  and  by  a  variation  in 
the  shapes  of  the  GoOeaux  and  a  few  additions,  it  may  be 
produced  in  fifty  forms  of  cake.     It  is  made  (in  the  best 
way)  in  the  following  manner  and  proportions : — Have 
four  pounds  [equal  to  four  and  a  half  English  weight] 
of  dry   fine   flour;    take    one-fourth   of  this   to  make 
the  leaven  in  this  manner  :    make  a  hole  in  the  centre 
of  the   pound   of   flour,  into  this  pour   a  small   wine- 
glassful  of  sweet  yeast,  and  over  this  as  much  hot  water 
as  will  make  it  a  rather  thick  leaven.    Set  this  covered 
before  the  Are,  making  a  few  transverse  incisions  on  the 
surface.     Give  it  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  rise.     Then 
leaven  the  remaining  flour  thus  :  —  Throw  a  little  beat 
salt,  and  some  sugar,  both  melted  in  water,  over  the  flour. 
Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  it.      Crumble  down  two 
pounds  of  butter,  and  break  a  dozen  eggs  into  it.     Knead 
it  up  quickly,  once  and  again,  till  well  mixed,  and  pour 
the  leaven  equally  over  it.     Divide  it  into  pieces,  which 
knead  and  toss  about,  changing  their  place  continually  to 
blend  the  whole  materials  equally  and  well.     Next  beat 
up  the  whole  together,  and  keep  the  brioche  paste  in  a 
medium  temperature  (according  to  the  state  of  the  weather) 
rolled  up  in  a  cloth,  dusted  with  flour,  and  spread  another 
over  the  deep  vessel  in  which  it  is  laid.     Next  day  (for  it 
works  the  better  for  lying  over  a  night)  break  and  mould 
the  paste  into  any  form  you  please,  large  or  small.     By 
the  addition  of  currants  or  sugar,  you  have  sugar-loaves 
and  GateatuB  de  Nanterre,     Add  currants  and  fine  stoned 
raisins,  and  you  have  the  Gateaux  de  Compeigne.    Tinge 
the  paste  with  saffron  diluted  in  water,  and  add  a  glass 
of  Madeira  or  sweet  wine,  and  by  moulding  in  proper 
shapes  you  have  Babag»    The  moulds  should  be  buttered ; 
and  care  must  be  taken  that  the  babas  are  not  scorched 
a-top,  as  the  colour  is  of  consequence.      A  still  better 
preparation  for  a  full-tooth  epicure,  is  Brioche  au  Fromagey 
made  by  strewing  well-flavoured  Swiss,  Italian,  or  English 
cheese  in  very  small  dice  into  the  paste  before  baking  it. 
The  Brioche  cakes  are  generally  made  with  a  head  and 
sole  or  flat  part  like  our  buns.      These  are  separately 
shaped  in  the  hand,  and  then  stuck  together ;  a  smaller 


422  CUAP.  II. — FRENCH  COOKERT. 

top  or  button  of  the  paste  is  clapped  on  above  all,  and 
the  top  a  little  dinted  in.  The  cakes  are  brushed  with 
beat  eggs,  and  baked  in  a  quick  oven.  If  large,  Brioche 
cakes,  like  all  cakes,  require  a  steady,  but  not  quick  heat, 
else  they  will  scorch  before  getting  baked  to  the  heart. — 
By  H.  J.,  jEcuyer  tranchant  to  the  St.  Rokan's  Club. 

718.  Chantilly  Baskets.^^French  cooks  often  make  these 
of  rery  small  choux  of  pdiS-royaUy  instead  of  the  ratafia- 
biscuits  used  in  this  country.  The  method  is  the  same. 
When  the  little  biscuits  or  choux  are  baked  quite  crisp,  have 
ready  some  sugar  clarified  and  boiled  to  crackling  height. 
Stick  a  small  skewer  into  each  biscuit,  and  dip  the  edge 
in  the  sugar.  Fix  them  one  by  one,  as  dip^  round  a 
dish  or  mouM  that  will  shape  your  basket.  When  one 
row  18  done,  begin  another.  The  candied  sugar  will  make 
the  biscuits  instantly  stick.  Use  rather  larger  biscuit  for 
the  upper  tiers,  as  the  basket  should  waden  towards  the 
top.  Three  or  four  tiers  will  be  enough  of  height.  The 
handle  will  be  most  easily  made  by  sticking  the  biscuits 
together  round  the  ledge  of  a  stew-pan,  first  ascertaining 
the  width  of  the  arch ;  for  really  what  is  ordered  in 
common  receipt-books  about  '^  throwing  over  an  arch,'* 
is  easier  ^d  than  done.  An  ornamental  border  of 
coloured  drops  of  gum-paste  may  be  given  to  the  basket. 
Serve  any  dry  sweetmeat  you  choose  in  the  basket,  which 
should  first  be  lined  with  tissue-paper. 

719.  BouchSes  de  Dames^  Ladie»*  Lips  or  Kisses.* — 
Make  a  paste  as  for  fine  biscuits,  of  six  fresh  eggs,  with 
six  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  and  three  of  rice-fiour.  Beat 
this  very  well ;  spread  it  thinly,  and  bake  on  paper  on  a 
buttered  oven-tin  for  nearly  twenty  minutes.  When 
fired,  stamp  out  the  paste  the  size  of  dollars,  with  orna- 
mental stamps,  and  glaze  with  white,  rose,  or  violet 
coloured  icing. — See  To  Ice  Calces^  No.  1005. 

719.*  —  Petites  Bouches  d  la  Patissiere.  Cut  fifteen 
pieces  out  of  puff-paste,  rolled  out  to  the  eighth  of  an  inch, 
with  an  oval  fluted  cutter,  about  two  inches  long,  and 
one  and  a  half  broad.     Roll  out  more  paste,  from  which 

*  Properly  ladies'  mouih/uU, 


PASTRY,  423 

cut  twenty  pieces  with  a  smaller  stamp,  and  again  with 
one  yet  smaller  stamp  cut  out  the  centre.  Wet  the  pieces. 
Place  the  largest  undermost^  then  the  next^  and  lastly 
those  stamped  out  like  rings,  having  first  dipped  them  in 
pounded  sugar.  Bake  on  a  baking  tin,  and  fill  the  ring 
with  any  sort  of  jelly  or  jam,  or  a  preserved  cherry;  &c. 

720.  Ths  TmnSy  or  MMnpues  JumtwuB. — Whip  the 
whites  of  eight  eggs  to  a  solid  froth,  and  add  to  this  a 
pound  of  fine  sifted  sugar ;  or  clarify  and  boil  it  to  the 
second  degree.  Season  with  lemon-grate,  and  beat  all  very 
well  together.  Drop  the  Jumeaux  on  paper  in  the  shape 
of  an  egg.  Sift  sugar  over  them.  Bake  them  in  a  slow 
oven.  When  firm,  draw  them  out,  and  stick  two  and  two 
together,  and  put  them  to  dry  before  the  fire  or  in  a  hot 
closet. — Obs.  These  miringues  or  gemini  may  be  made  as 
above,  and  flavoured  with  mar€t9qu%n  or  orange-flower- 
water  ;  but  they  must  then  be  made  smaller. 

As  has  been  said,  an  endless  variety  of  trifles  is  made  of 
paste-royal,  by  purchasing  the  proper  cutters  or  stamps. 
Among  the  neatest  are  the  Petits  PanUrs  and  Petites 
Briochesy  of  which  the  proper  stamp  will  direct  the  form- 
ing.— See  PiMtty  and  Cakes, 

721.  A  plain  Fruit-cake, — Roll  out  any  bits  of  puff-paste 
you  have  left  from  more  important  preparations^  Spread  any 
kind  of  marmalade  over  these.  Decorate  with  paste  bands 
or  straws.  Glaze  the  cake  with  yolk  of  egg  ;  bake  it,  and 
cut  it  into  oblong  pieces,  and  pile  them  on  the  dish.— See 
Pastry  and  Sweet  and  Ornamental  Dishes, 

721.'  To  serve  Jelly  in  Orange  skins y  Cabsme. — Choose 
ten  well-shaped  large  oranges,  of  a  rich  colour.  Cut  a 
piece  an  inch  wide  at  the  stalk  end  with  a  cutter,  and 
with  a  tea-spoon  gently  raise  the  rind  and  empty  the 
orange.  Clear  away  the  pulp  and  seeds,  and  throw  the 
skins  into  cold  water  to  harden  and  plump  out.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  break ;  but  if  broken,  stop  the  crack  with  a 
little  butter.  Filter  the  juice  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
through  blotting-paper,  rolled  up  like  a  funnel.  Add 
syrup  and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass.  Now  place 
the  skins  on  a  large  sieve  two  inches  from  each  other. 
Surround  them  wiUi  ice,  and  fill  them  with  the  jelly ; 


424  CHAP.  II. FRENCH  COOKERY. 

replace  the  piece  of  skin  removed  to  empty  them.  Lay 
six  on  a  napkin,  and  a  seventh  on  the  top,  and  garnish 
with  orange  or  laurel  leaves.  They  may  also  be  served 
in  a  paste -basket,  or  more  simply  and  gracefully  piled  in 
a  glass-dish. 


CHAPTER  III. 

SCOTCH  AND  OTHER  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

There  be  livers  out  of  England. 

Cymbeline, 

It  has  been  remarked,  that  every  country  is  celebrated 
for  some  culinary  preparation,  and  that  all  National  Dishes 
are  good.  The  reason  of  this  is  sufficiently  obvious ;  had 
they  not  been  acceptable  to  the  palate,  they  never  could 
have  either  gained  or  maintained  their  supremacy.  Ac- 
cordingly, the  Spanish  olio  and  pucherOy  the  Italian  macor- 
roni,  the  French  ragout^  the  Turkish  pillau,  and  though 
last  not  least  in  our  good  love,  the  Scotch  HaggiSy  differing 
essentially  as  they  do,  are,  nevertheless,  all  equally  good 
after  their  kind.  We  give  precedence  to  the  **  Great 
chieftain  of  the  pudding  race,"  premising,  in  all  good  faith, 
that  ours  is  the  ejiBjct  formula  by  which  the  Prize  Haggis 
was  prepared  at  the  famous  Competition  of  Haggises  held 
in  Edinburgh,  when  the  St.  Ronan's  Haggis  carried  the 
stakes,  and  that  of  Christopher  North  came  in  second. 
Among  the  judges  on  that  ever-memorable  day  were 
G.  P.  R.  James,  Esq.,  and  the  author  of  "Cyril  Thornton," 
not  to  mention  the  Director-General  of  the  Fine  Arts, 
who  was  himself  a  competitor. 

722.  Hie  Scotch  Haggis. — ^Clean  a  sheep's  pluck  tho- 
roughly. Make  incisions  in  the  heart  and  liver  to  allow 
the  blood  to  flow  ont,  and  parboil  the  whole,  letting  the 
windpipe  lie  over  the  side  of  the  pot,  to  permit  the  phlegm 
and-blood  to  disgorge  from  the  lungs  ;  the  water  may  be 
changed  after  a  few  minutes'  boiling  for  fresh  water.    The 


SCOTCH  HAGGIS.  425 

lights  cannot  be  overboiled.    A*  half-hour's  boiling  will  be 
sufficient  for  the  rest ;  but  throw  back  the  half  of  the 
liver  to  boil  till  it  will  grate  easily.     Take  the  heart,  the 
half  of  the  liver,  and  part  of  the  lights,  trimming  away 
all  skins  and  black-looking  parts,  and  mince  them  together 
finely.     Mince  also  a  pound  of  good  beef-suet,  and  four  or 
more  onions.     Grate  the  other  half  of  the  liver.     Have 
four  mild  large  onions,  peeled,  scalded,  and   minced,  to 
mix  with  the  haggis   mince.     Have  ready  some  finely- 
ground  oatmeal,  toasted  slowly  before  the  fire  for  hours  till 
it  is  of  a  light-brown  colour,  and  perfectly  nutty  and  dry. 
A  large  tea-cupful  of  meal  will  do  for  this  quantity  of  meat. 
Spread  the  mince  on  a  board,  and  strew  the  meal  lightly  over 
it,  with  a  high  seasoning  of  black  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
cayenne,  first  well  mixed.      Have  a  haggis- bag  (t.  e,  a 
sheep's  paunch)  perfectly  clean,  and  see  that  there  be  no 
thin  part  in  it,  else  your  whole  labour  will  be  lost  by  its 
bursting.     Some   cooks  use  two  bags,  or  a  cloth  as  an 
outer  case.     Put  in  the  meat  with  a  half-pint  of  good 
,beef-gravy,  or  as  much  strong  stock.     Be  careful  not  to 
fill  the  bag  too  full,  but  allow  the  meat  room  to  swell ; 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  little  good  vinegar ;  press 
out  the  air,  and  sew  up  the  bag ;  prick  it  with  a  long 
needle  when  it  first  swells  in  the  pot  to  prevent  bursting ; 
let  it  boil  slowly  for  three  hours  if  large. — Obs,  This  is  a 
genuine  Scotch  haggis ;  the  lemon  and  cayenne  may  be 
omitted,  and  instead  of  beef-gravy,  a  little  of  the  broth  in 
which  the  pluck  is  parboiled  may  be  taken.     More  suet 
may  be  given.     A  finer  haggis  may  be  made  by  parboil- 
ing and  skinning  sheep's  tongues  and  kidneys,  and  sub- 
stituting  these   minced,  for  the  most  of  the  lights,  and 
soaked   bread   or  crisped  crumbs  for   the  toasted  meal. 
There  are,  moreover,  sundry  modem  refinements  on  the 
above  receipt, — such  as  eggs,  milk,  pounded  biscuit.  Sec, 
&c., — but  these,  by  good  judges,  are  not  deemed  improve- 
ments.   Some  cooks  use  the  small  fat  tripes,  as  in  making 
lamb's  haggis.    Mr.  Allan  Cunningham,  in  some  of  his 
Tales,  orders  the  parboiled  minced  meat  of  sheep's  head 
for  haggis.     We  have  no  experience  of  this  receipt,  but  it 
promises  well.     A  haggis  boiled  for  two  hours  may  be 


426      CHAP.  III. — SCOTCH  AND  OTHBR  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

kept  for  a  week  or  two ;  and  when  cold,  gets  so  firm  that 
hagg-ises  are  often  sent  from  Scotland  to  distant  places 
and  countries.  Thejr  must  in  this  case  be  made  very  dry, 
and  covered  with  oatmeal ;  nor  will  a  haggis  keep  so  well 
if  there  is  much  onion  put  to  it.  For  some  tastes — oar  own 
for  example*— the  above  receipt  contains  too  much  onion. 
Haggis  meat,  by  those  who  cannot  admire  the  natural 
shape,  may  be  poured  out  of  the  bag,  and  served  in  a  deep 
dish.  No  dish  heats  up  better.  A  ragout  of  the  cold  haggis, 
heated  up  in  a  stew-pan  in  which  a  little  shred  onion, 
with  pepper,  is  first  fried,  and  the  whole  covered  over 
with  the  haggis-bag,  to  keep  the  meat  sappp^  is  better  than 
on  the  first  day.  We  advise  M.  Soyer  to  try  haggis  with 
a  paste  or  mashed  potato  border,  d  VEeassaiae,  Lamb^s 
Haggis  is  often  made  as  sheep's  haggis. 

723.  A  LaM»  Haggis. — Slit  up  all  the  little  fat  tripes 
with  scissors,  and  clean  them.  Clea^n  the  kernels  also, 
and  parboil  Uie  whole,  and  cut  them  into  little  bits.  Clean 
and  shred  the -web  and  kidney  fat,  and  mix  it  with  the 
tripes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Make  a  thin  batter  with  two  eggs,  a  half-pint  of  milk, 
and  the  necessary  quantity  of  flour.  Season  with  chopped 
chives  or  young  onions.  Mix  the  whole  together.  Sew 
up  the  bag,  which  must  be  very  clean,  and  boil  for  an  hour 
and  a  half. 

We  have  been  requested  by  a  correspondent  to  give  the 
following  receipt  iox  Calf  s  haggis  publicity,  for  the  benefit 
of  mankind.  The  St.  Ronan's  Club  had  originally  no 
experience  of  it,  but  Dr.  Redoill  was  willing  to  stake  his 
reputation  upon  it  untried,  and  he  was  found  right. 

723.*  Golfs  Haggis, — Take  the  veal-caul  (or  web  of  fat,) 
the  udder,  the  kidney,  and  best  part  of  the  calf's  pluck. 
Blanch  and  boil  the  udder,  and  the  split  kidney  and  pluck, 
for  twenty  minutes.  When  cool,  mince  them ;  mince  also 
the  caul.  Blanch  and  hash  two  dozen  sprigs  of  picked  young 
parsley,  a  few  green  onions  very  young,  a  bit  of  eschalot, 
and  a  few  mushrooms,  if  you  have  them.  Stew  the  herbs 
in  butter  for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  moisten  them  with 
a  glass  of  Madeira.  When  this  gets  dry,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.    Mix  the  ingredients,  t .  e.  the  herbs  and  mince. 


'CkJjr*S  HAcrois.  427 

Pert  tiiem  into  a  bag  as  other  haggis ;  but  for  security  have 
two  bagSy  one  casing  the  other,  for  fear  of  a  breach.  Mix 
meanwhile  the  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  half- pint  of 
rich  and  highly-seasoned  veal  or  beef  gravy,  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  pounded  «nd  soaked  rusks.  Put  this  into  the 
bag  with  the  other  materif^,  and  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon, 
and  when  sewed  up,  toss  it  about  to  blend  them  all,  and 
boil  in  water,  fresh  broth  if  you  have  it ;  pricking  the  bag 
to  let  out  the  air,  as  in  your  other  receipts.  Boil  three 
hours. 

723.3  Hoffffis  Boyai, — ^We  find  this  receipt  for  Haggis 
Royal  in  the  Minutes  of  Sederunt  of  the  St.  Ronan*s  Club  : 
— ''  Three  pounds  of  leg  of  mutton  chopped ;  a  pound  of 
suet  chopped ;  a  little,  or  rather  as  much  beef-marrow  as 
you  can  spare  ;  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  (our  dwn  nutty- 
ilavoured,  browned  oatmeal  is,  by  the  way,  far  better ;) 
the  beat  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  a  half-pint  of  red  wine ;  three 
mellow  fresh  anchovies  boned:  minced  parsley,  lemon 
grate,  white  pepper,  crystals  of  cayenne  to  taste,— crystals 
alone  ensure  a  perfect  diffusion  of  the  flavour, — blend  the 
ingredients  well :  truss  them  neatly  in  a  veal  caul ;  bake 
in  a  deep  dish,  in  a  quick  oven,  and  turn  out.  Serve  hot 
as  fire,  with  brown-gravy,  and  venison-sauce.'! 

724.  /Scottish  Fat  Brose. — Boil  an  ox-head,  sheep's 
head,  ox-heel,  or  shin  of  beef,  till  an  almost  pure  oil  floats 
on  the  top  of  the  pot.  Have  some  oatmeal  well  toasted 
before  the  fire,  as  in  making  haggis  ;  put  a  handful  of  the 
meal  into  a  basin  with  salt,  and  pouring  a  ladlef ul  of  the  fat 
broth  over  it,  stir  it  quickly  up  with  the  handle  of  a  spoon, 
so  as  not  to  run  into  one  doughy  mass,  but  to  form  knoi9, 

725.  Kail-brose  is  made  as  in  the  above  receipt,  but  of 
fat  broth  in  which  shred  greens  have  been  boiled. 

726.  Chck-a-leekie,  —  Boil  from  four  to  six  pounds  of 
good  shin-beef,  well  broken,  till  the  liquor  is  very  good. 
Strain  it,  and  put  to  it  a  capon,  or  large  fowl,  trussed  as 
for  boiling,  and,  when  it  boils,  half  the  quantity  of 
blanched  leeks  intended  to  be  used,  well  cleaned,  and  cut 
in  inch-lengths,  or  longer.  Skim  this  carefully*  In  a 
half-hour  add  the  remaining  part  of  the  leeks,  and  a 
seasonings  of  pepper  and  salt.     The  soup  must  be  very 


428     CHAP.  III. SCOTCH  AVJy  OTHEB  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

thick  of  leeks,  and  the  first  part  of  them  must  he  hoiled 
down  into  the  soup  till  it  hecomes  a  green  lubricous  com- 
pound. Sometimes  the  capon  is  served  in  the  tureen  with 
the  cock-a-leekie.  This  makes  good  leek-soup  without  a 
a  fowl. — Ohs.  Some  people  thicken  cock-a-leekie  with  the 
fine  part  of  oatmeal.  Those  who  dislike  so  much  of  the 
leeks  may  substitute  shred  (xerman  greens,  or  spinage  and 
parsley,  for  one-half  of  them,  and  we  consider  this  an  im- 
provement, the  greens  especially,  if  tender  and  long  boiled, 
without  being  too  finely  shred.  Reject  the  coarse  green 
part  of  the  leeks.  Prunes  and  raisins  used  to  be  put  into 
this  soup.     The  practice  is  obsolete. 

727.  Balnofnoon  Skinky  an  Irish  Soup. — Clean  and*  cut 
into  pieces  two  or  three  young  cocks,  or  fowls.  Have  one 
larger  neatly  trussed  as  for  boiling.  Boil  the  cut  fowls  till 
the  broth  is  as  strong  and  good  as  they  can  make  it ;  but 
do  not  overboil  the  uncut  fowl.  Strain  the  broth,  season 
it  with  parsley,  chives,  and  young  onions  chopped,  and,  if 
in  season,  a  few  tender  green  peas.  Add  white  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  the  whole  fowl  in  the  tureen,  or 
separately. — Obs,  This  soup  may  be  immensely  improved 
in  quality  and  appearance  by  adding,  before  serving,  a 
liaison  of  two  beat  eggs,  and  a  little  cream.  It  is  another 
variety  of  the  Scottish  Friars*  Chicken,  or  Gock-a-leelcie ; 
dishes  which,  under  some  name,  are,  with  whatever  modifi- 
cation of  seasonings,  familiar  in  every  country  where  a 
backward  system  of  husbandry  renders  indifierent  poiQtry 
plentiful,  and  shambles-meat  scarce. 

N.B. — ^Without  desiring  to  innovate  on  these  national 
preparations,  we  would  recommend,  for  the  sake  of  the 
ladies'  dresses,  and  the  gentlemen's  toil  in  fishing  it  up, 
that  the  fowl  be  carved  before  it  is  served  in  the  tureen. 

728.  Scottish  Hotch-potch,  —  Make  the  stock  of  sweet 
fresh  lamb  or  mutton.  Grate  the  zest  of  two  or  three 
large  young  carrots  ;  slice  down  as  many  more.  Slice 
down  also  sweet  young  turnips,  young  onions,  lettuce,  and 
parsley.  Have  a  full  quart  of  these  things  when  shred,  and 
another  of  young  green  peas  and  sprigs  of  cauliflower. 
Put  in  the  vegetables,  withholding  half  the  peas  till  nearer 
the  end  of  the  process.     Cut  down  three  pounds  of  ribs  of 


HOTCH-POTCH.  429 

lamb  into  small  steaks,  trimming  off  superfluous  fat,  and 
put  them  to  the  stock.  Boil  well  and  skim  carefully ;  add 
the  remaining  peas,  white  pepper,  and  salt ;  and  when 
thick  enough,  serve  the  steaks  in  the  tureen  with  the 
hotch-potch.-— 0^^.  The  excellence  of  this  favourite  dish 
depends  mainly  on  the  meat,  whether  lamb  or  mutton, 
being  perfectly  fresh,  and  the  vegetables  being  all  young, 
and  full  of  sweet  juices,  and  boiled  till  of  good  consistence. 
The  sweet  white  turnip  is  best  for  hotch-potch,  or  the 
small,  round,  smooth-gi*ained  yellow  kind  peculiar  to  Scot- 
land, and  almost  equal  to  the  genuine  Navei  of  France. 
Mutton-chops  make  excellent  hotch-potch  without  any 
lamb-steaks.  Parsley  shred,  white  cabbage,  asparagus- 
points,  or  cauliflower  may  be  added  to  the  other  vegetables 
or  not,  at  pleasure.  The  meat  may  be  kept  whole,  and 
served  separately. — See  No.  99.  Of  this  receipt  when  it 
first  appeared  in  our  work,  a  great  poet,  and  no  con- 
temptible gastronome,  said,  '^  Eve  might  have  prepared  it 
for  Adam  in  paradise."  There  are  many  varieties  of 
Scottish  hotch-potch ;  we  give  what  we  consider  the 
best. 

729.  Winter  Hotch-pctchy  or  German  Broth. — This  dish 
may  be  made  of  either  fresh  beef,  or  of  a  neck  or  back- 
ribs  of  mutton,  or  of  a  mixture  of  both.  Cut  four  pounds 
of  meat  into  handsome  pieces.  Boil  and  skim  this  well, 
and  add  carrots  and  turnips  sliced,  small  leeks  and  parsley 
cut  down,  and  some  German  greens  finely  shred,  and  if 
tender,  put  in  only  a  half-hour  before  the  soup  is  com- 
pleted. Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  The  quantity  of 
vegetables  must  be  suited  to  the  quantity  of  meat,  so  that 
the  soup  may  have  consistence,  but  not  be  disagreeably 
thick.  Serve  the  meat  and  soup  together.  Have,  if  you 
like,  rice  or  dry  green  peas  boiled  in  it,  which  last  is  an  im- 
provement.— Ohs,  The  meat  may  be  kept  whole  and  served 
as  Bouilli  Ordinaire,  No.  99. 

Another  tcay, — Take  a  neck  of  mutton,  a  large  pint  of 
cut  carrot  and  turnip,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
well-soaked  peas.  Boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  In  half 
an  hour  add  a  few  small  mutton-chops  to  serve  in  the 
tureen,  and  minced  parsley  and  onion.     The  peas  may  be 


430      CHAP.  III. — SCOTCH  AND  OTHttR  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

previously  boiled  for  an  hour,  or  added  pulped.  The 
turnip  may  also  be  pulped.  Celery  is  a  great  improre- 
ment. 

790.  To  make  Skink^  an  old  fashioned  Scottish  Stetv-JSoup, — 
Take  two  legs  of  beef,  put  them  on  with  two  gallons  of 
water ;  let  them  boil  for  six  hours,  taking  eaie  to  skim 
the  soup  well  all  the  time,  as  the  gravy  should  be  very 
clear  and  bright ;  then  strain  the  liquor  from  the  meat, 
take  the  sinewy  part  of  the  meat,  and  lay  it  aside  till 
your  soup  is  ready  to  serve  up.  Cut  the  sinews  about  an 
inch  long.  Have  some  vegetables  cut,  such  as  carrots, 
turnips,  leeks,  onions,  celery,  lettuce,  cabbage  shred  small, 
and  green  peas,  when  to  be  had.  Blanch  the  whole  in 
boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  and  put  into  the 
soup,  and  boil  till  quite  tender.  Serve  up  the  sinews  in 
the  tureen  with  the  soup.  Season  the  soup  with  salt  and 
pepper  before  dishing  it. — Obs.  Herbs  may  be  used  in 
these  soups ;  and  white  peas  (boilers)  are  by  many  thought 
an  improvement.  Both  are  cheap  and  excellent  family- 
dishes.  It  must  be  remembered  that  our  bullocks  were  of 
small  size  in  former  times ;  one  leg  would  now  be  more 
than  two  of  those  days. 

731.  Plain  Scottish  Fish  and  Sauce^  a  Maigre  Dish, — 
This  is,  in  fact,  just  a  good  fish-soup ;  and  for  all  such 
soups  the  fish  must  be  very  fresh.  Make  a  stock  of  the 
heads,  points  of  the  tails,  fins,  &c.  or,  where  fish  are  cheap 
and  fresh,  out  down  one  or  two  to  help  the  stock.  Boil  green 
onions,  parsley,  and  chives  in  this,  and  some  whole  pepper. 
When  all  the  substance  is  obtained,  strain  it.  Thicken 
with  butter  kneaded  in  browned  flour,  but  only  to  the 
consistence  of  a  soup,  and  put  in  the  fish,  (generally  had- 
docks,) cut  in  three  or  divided.  Boil  the  fish  ten  minutes, 
add  catsup,  and  serve  them  and  the  sauce  together  in 
a  tureen  or  soup-dish.  See  Nos.  134  and  149.  This  is  a 
very  popular  preparation  along  all  the  eastern  coasts  of 
Scotland,  where  haddocks  are  got  quite  fresh. 

732.  Scottish  Fish  cmd  Sattce,  a  favourite  Family-dish. 
—  Proceed  as  above  to  make  a  stock ;  or  use  broth  of 
meat,  if  wanted  rich,  though  plenty  of  butter  kneaded  in 
browned  flour  will  make  this  rich  enough.    The  fish  cut  in 


FISH  AXO  SAUC£.  4St 

pieces  may  previously  be  browned  in  the  frying-pan.  Season 
highly  with  mixed  spices  and  a  half-cnpfnl  of  catsap. 
This  dish  may  be  enriched  with  oysteiSy  shrimps^  or 
muscles  prepared :  or  with  fish  farce-balls.  The  sauce  or 
soup  slionld  be  rather  thicker  than  in  the  former  receipt. 
Serre  as  above.  Some  will  like  celery  in  this  di^.  For 
modem  taste,  the  fish  may  be  fiUiedy  which  gets  rid 
of  the  bones,  and  the  dish  looks  better. 

733.  Friar^s  Chicken,  —  Make  a  clear  stock  of  veal  or 
mutton  knuckles,  or  trimmings  of  fowls,  or  butter.  Strain 
this  into  a  very  nice  saucepan,  and  put  a  fine  white 
chicken,  or  young  fowl  or  two,  cut  down  as  for  currie, 
into  it.  Season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  shred  parsley.  Thicken,  when  the  soup  is  finished. 
With  the  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  glass  of  creanit  and 
take  great  care  that  they  do  not  curdle.  Serve  witli  the 
carved  chicken  in  the  soup.  —  Ohs.  The  stock  may  be 
simply  made  of  butter,  and  the  meat  may  be  lightly 
browned  in  the  frying-pan  and  strained  before  it  is  put  to 
the  soup.  Rabbits  make  this  very  well.  Some  like  the 
egg  curdled,  and  egg  in  great  quantity,  making  the  dish 
a  sort  of  ragout  of  eggs  and  chicken. 

734.  Scottish  Minced  Collops  and  Beef  Gobbets, —  Mince 
a  fleshy  piece  of  beef,  free  of  skins  and  gristles,  very  fine, 
and  season  it  with  salt  and  mixed  spices.  Mix  up  the 
collops  thoroughly  with  a  little  water  or  stock  ;  and,  hav- 
ing browned  some  butter  in  a  saucepan,  put  them  to  it, 
and  beat  them  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  they  are 
nearly  ready,  to  keep  them  from  going  into  lumps.  Put 
more  gravy  to  them,  or  a  little  broth  made  of  the  skins 
and  gristles.  Cook  for  twelve  minutes. — Obs,  Minced  col- 
lops of  beef  may  be  dressed  like  Dr.  Hunter's  dinner  for  an 
invalid.  No.  1248,  and  will  be  as  light.  Shred  onions  are 
relished  by  some  persons,  and  a  little  made-mustard :  pickles^ 
or  vinegars,  plain  or  flavoured,  are  also  used.  Minced 
collops  will  ke^p  some  time,  if  packed  in  a  can  and  covered 

*  Though  in  all  Scottish  cookery-books  pickles  are  ordered  to  be 
mixed  with  minced  collops  and  other  ragouts,  the  St.  Ronan*8  Club 
refuse  their  sanction  to  the  semi-barbarous  practice  of  mingling  crude 
vegetables  with  fresh-dressed  meat.    Hashes  require  piquancy. — P.  T.  , 


432      CHAP.  III. — SCOTCH  AND  OTHER  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

like  potted  meats.  Some  cooks  scrape  the  meat,  or  beat 
it,  instead  of  mincing  it :  with  herbs,  chopped  eggs,  suet, 
and  seasonings,  it  is  then  a  good  forcemeat.  Beef  may  be 
cut  into  bits,  or  heef  gobbets^  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  ^gg, 
dressed  as  above,  with  a  little  of  any  nice  gravy  seasoned, 
and  be  covered  with  bread-crumbs,  browned  with  a  sala- 
mander, and  served  as  a  small  made-dish.  Veal  may  also 
be  dressed  in  gobbets  in  the  same  manner,  and  both  make 
an  inexpensive  variety.  There  are  several  varieties  of  the 
above  useful  National  dish,  but  none  so  good  as  the  freshly 
prepared  simple  Minced  Collops,  As  a  lighter  dish  for  an 
invalid,  mashed  turnips  may  be  put  to  it.  It  is  lightest 
made  thin,  and  cooked  for  fifteen  minutes.  Some  people 
come  to  like  minced  collops  after  the  mince  is  soured  in  the 
potting-cans— or,  in  fact  fermenting. 

735.  Hare,  Venison,  and  Veal  Collops  are  made  the 
same  as  Beef  minced  collops,  using  the  seasonings  appro- 
priate to  those  savoury  preparations. — See  No.  55. 

736.  Potted  Head,  Potted  Heels,  S^c, — Dress  a  bullock's 
head  as  directed  for  ox-cheek-soup.  No.  91,  and,  when  boiled 
till  very  tender,  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  as  directed. 
No.  460.  Strain  the  gravy  ;  season  it  highly  with  mixed 
spices  and  mace,  and  return  the  whole  into  a  clean  saucepan. 
Boil  for  some  time,  and  pour  it  out  into  stoneware  shapes  or 
basins,  and  when  cold  and  wanted,  turn  it  out.  This  makes 
a  pretty  comer-dish,  or  supper-dish.  Garnish  with  a  wreath 
of  curled  parsley,  or  sliced  beetroot  pickled.  Cow- 
heels  and  Calf's  Head  are  potted  in  the  same  manner  ; 
but  season  potted  calfs  head  with  lemon-peel  and  juice  of 
lemon. — See  No.  91. 

737.  A  Stoved  Howtowdie,  tcith  Drappit  Eggs. —  Prepare 
and  stuflF  with  forcemeat  a  young  plump  fowl.  Put  it 
into  a  getlin  concave-bottomed  small  pot  with  a  close- 
fitting  lid,  with  six  button-onions,  spices,  and  at  least  a 
quarter-pound  of  butter.  Add  some  fine  herbs.  When 
the  fowl  has  hardened,  and  been  turned,  add  a  half-pint 
or  rather  more  of  boiling  water  or  stock.  Fit  on  the  lid 
very  close,  and  set  the  pot  over  embers.  A  cloth  may  be 
wrapped  round  the  lid,  if  it  is  not  luted  on.  An  hour  will 
do  a  young  fowl,  and  so  on  in  proportion.     Have  a  little 


433 

seasoned  gnivy,  in  which  parboil  the  liver.  Poadi*  nicely 
in  this  gnivy  fire  or  rix  eggs.  Dieas  than  on  flattened 
halls  of  spinage  round  the  diah  on  which  jon  serre  the 
fowL  Rnh  down  the  liver  to  thicken  the  gnwy  and 
liquor  in  which  the  fowl  was  stewed,  which  reduce  and 
pour  over  it  for  sauce,  ddmming  it  nicely,  and  serv- 
ing all  very  hot. — Obt.  This  is  a  nice  small  Scottish  dish. 
Mushrooms,  oysters,  foroemeat-halls,  &c^  may  be  added 
to  enrich  it ;  or  celery  may  be  put  to  the  sauce ;  the 
spinage  may  be,  and  often  is,  omitted.  Slices  of  curled 
broiled  ham  may  be  served  round  the  fowL  Two  young 
boiled  or  stewed  fowla^  with  a  small  salted  tongue  between 
them,  make  a  good  fkmily-dinner  dish. —  Obs.  Chickens 
and  young  fowls  are  dressed,  in  Germany,  exactly  like 
the  Scottish  hovoimodie;  from  which  we  discard  all  oysters 
and  farce-balls,  using  simply  the  drappU-egg  and  spinage ; 
or,  at  most,  a  few  very  thin  slices  of  broiled  bacon,  with 
fried  eggs.  In  Germany,  chickens  are  steeped  in  lemon* 
juice,  spices,  and  parsley,  and  cut  up,  fried,  and  served 
with  fried  ^gs. 

738.  Scottish  White  Puddings. — ^Mince  good  beef-suet, 
but  not  too  finely,  and  mix  it  with  about  a  third  of  its 
own  weight  of  highly-toasted  oatmeal.  Season  highly  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Have  the  skins  thoroughly  cleaned  and 
cut  of  equal  lengths.  Fill  them  with  the  ingredients,  and 
sew  or  fasten  the  ends  with  a  wooden  pin  or  smallfeather* 
Boil  the  puddings  for  an  hour,  pricking  them  as  they  swell 
in  the  pot  with  a  needle  to  let  out  the  air.  They  will 
keep  for  months  laid  in  bran  or  oatmeal.  When  to  be 
used,  warm  them  through  in  hot  water ;  then  cook  on  the 
gridiron,  on  oiled  paper,  (or  without,)  and  serve  very  hot. 
—See  No.  697. 

739.  l^ver  Puddings  are  made  as  above,  using  par- 
boiled liver  grated  in  tiie  proportion  of  one-fourth  ;  the  rest 
suet  and  meal,  with  the  above  seasonings,  and  onions  shred. 

740.  To  Boast  a  Pig^  Scottish  t«>tf^.— The  directions  of  a 
thorough-bred  Scottish  cook,  saijctioned  by  experience, 
authorize  us  to  recommend  that  a  pig  intended  for  roast* 
ing  should  be  slightly  rubbed  with  melted  butter  whenever 

*  This  is  exactly  the  French  dish  (Eufspochcaaujua, 

2  E 


434      CHAP.  111. — SCOTCH  AND  OTHRR  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

it  has  wanned  at  the  fire :  then  quickly  dredge  every  part 
with  fine  flour;  keep  the  spit  turning  continually,  but 
slowly,  allowing  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound- weight  in 
the  roast ;  and  frequently  dredging  it,  that  the  skin  may 
have  a  complete  superficies  of  flour,  uniform  as  on  the 
locks  of  an  antiquated  beau  of  the  last  century,  shrouding 
the  encroachments  of  Time  beneath  ikepowder  of  Fashion. 
When  the  pig  has  performed  the  specified  revolutions  be- 
fore a  clear  fire,  let  the  flour  be  blown  off  with  a  small 
handy  pair  of  bellows  ;  and  with  a  large  piece  of  butter, 
within  a  single  press  of  clean  linen,  rub  the  skin  all  over, 
turning  the  roast  with  great  deliberation.  Persevere  in 
this  unction  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  the  pig-crackling 
will  be  exquisitely  crisp.  (i^Vow  a  Correspondent.) — See 
also  No.  20,  and  IVench  Mode^  No.  656. 

741.  Pig's  Cheeky  by  a  Scottish  Lady's  Receipt,  equal  to  Le 
Maine  Blanc. — Split  a  large  fat  head,  take  out  the  brains, 
cut  ofi^  the  ears.  Lay  the  head  in  water  and  salt  for  one 
day,  and  boil  slowly  till  the  bones  will  come  out.  Care- 
fully take  ofi^  the  skin.  Mince  the  meat  while  still  hot. 
Season  with  pepper  and  allspice  (nutmeg  and  mace  if  you 
please.)  Press  the  mince  in  a  pudding-pan,  very  firmly. 
Put  a  weight  over  it.  It  will  get  quite  firm,  and  slice 
like  Bologna  sausage.  It  may  be  kept  in  a  cold  pickle 
made  of  its  liquor,  with  vinegar  and  salt  boiled  in  it* 
Serve  with  vinegar  and  mustard. — See  Nos.  20,  656,  658. 

742.  Glasgow  and  Birmingham  Hot  Tripe.  — When 
fat  tripe  is  well  cleaned  and  blanched  as  directed  at  No. 
16,  cut  it  into  pieces ;  roll  these  up  neatly,  fasten  with  a 
thread,  and  with  a  sawed  marrow-bone,  or  knuckle,  or 
trimmings  of  veal,  place  them  in  a  jar  or  tin  vessel,  like  a 
pudding-mould,  or  steamer  with  a  close-fitting  lid,  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Place  the  closed  jar  in  a  pdjk  of  water, 
which  keep  full  as  it  boils  away.  It  will  take  eight  hours 
at  least.  Or  the  jar  may  be  placed  in  a  slack  oven,  if 
more  convenient,  and  boil  away.  Keep  the  tripe  in  its 
own  jelly  in  the  jar,  and  dress  it  as  wanted,  as  directed  in 
Nos.  16,  6Qy  626,  743,  765.  Birmingham,  and  some  other 
English  towns,  are  as  famous  for  tripe  as  Glasgow  is,  and 
as,  in  the  olden  time,  Edinburgh  ica9.      The  tripe,  if  not 


TO  FRT  TRIPS.  485 

dressed  for  private  consumption,  is  sold  hot ;  the  dealers 
giving  a  piece  of  each  sort,  and  a  quantity  of  the  liquor, 
which  with  salt  and  mustard,  or  stewed  or  roasted  onions, 
forms  the  sole  sauce. 

743.  To  Fry  Tripe^  Scottish  fashion.  —  This  dish  is 
economical,  palatable,  and  agreeable  to  the  eye.  The 
pieces  of  tripe  left  after  an  ordinary  stew,  are  quite  fit  for 
the  present  purpose  ;  or  if  you  are  to  use  tripe  just  taken 
from  its  own  jelly,  it  must  be  wiped  and  stewed  in  warm 
milk,  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  salt.  Simmer  it 
slowly  till  very  tender.  This  should  be  done  in  time  to 
let  it  be  thoroughly  ^old,  before  the  finishing  ingredients 
are  added.  For  these  make  a  batter  with  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  allowing  a  spoonful  of  flour  to  each  egg,  and  as 
much  milk  as  will  make  a  thick  batter.  Season  with 
ginger,  onions,  or  chives,  and  parsley  minced  very  fine. 
Cut  the  tripe  in  small  cutlets,  dip  in  the  water,  and  fry  in 
beef-dripping.  If  you  think  the  batter  is  not  thick  enough 
to  cover  the  tripe  with  a  fine  brown  crust  when  fried,  add 
a  little  more  flour  to  it— See  Nos.  626,  16,  66,  742. 

744.  Scottish  Fine  Puddings  in  Skins. — Mince  apples 
and  grate  plain  biscuits  ;  take  an  equal  weight  to  these  of 
minced  suet.  Sweeten  this  with  sugar,  and  season  with 
cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg.  Moisten  the  whole  with 
wine  or  any  well-flavoured  liquor,  and  mix  and  fill  the 
skins,  but  not  too  full,  as  the  biscuit  swells.  Boil  two 
hours,  and  serve  hot. — Obs,  These  will  keep  for  a  week  or 
ten  days,  and  re-warm  by  boiling  ;  they  may  then  be 
browned  in  the  Dutch  oven.  —  Another  kind  of  fine  skin 
pudding  is  made  of  rice  boiled  in  milk,  with  suet,  currants, 
sugar,  and  seasonings.  The  suet  in  these  puddings  should 
not  be  shred  too  small,  which  makes  it  thaw  and  disap- 
pear ;  nor  yet  left  in  lumps. — See  Bottdins,  No.  697. 

745.  Scottish  Bkbck  Puddings,  —  Salt  the  hog's  blood 
when  drawn ;  strain  it ;  mix  it  with  a  little  sweet  milk 
or  stock  ;  stir  into  it  shred  suet  and  dried  oatmeal,  with 
plenty  of  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  onions.  Fill  the  skins, 
and  boil  and  then  broil  as  white  puddings,  738.  Savoury 
herbs  may  be  added. — N.B.  Blood  will  curdle  if  boiled 
too  quick.     This  national  preparation  is  much  superior  to 


436    CBAP.  in. — SCOTCH  and  other  national  dishes. 

the  English  receipts. — See  No.  718.  Of  all  blood  that  of 
the  hog  is  thought  the  richest,  and  this  is  always  employed 
in  France  in  their  bcudins  of  this  kind,  which  are  excellent. 
The  blood  of  the  hare  has  the  most  delicate  flavour  of 
any,  but  is  not  to  be  got  in  sufficient  quantity  for  pud- 
dings.— See  BouDiNs — French  Cookery. 

746.  —  Oatmeal  Dumpling^  or  a  Fitless  Cock,  —  This 
antique  Scottish  dish,  which  is  now  seldom  seen  at  any  table, 
is  made  of  suet  and  oatmeal,  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper, 
salt,  and  shred  onions,  as  for  white  puddings,  the  mixture 
being  bound  together  with  an  egg.  It  must  be  boiled  in 
a  cloth,  like  a  dumpling,  or  a  collar. 

747.  Crappit  Heads^  or  Fish  with  Forcemeat, — The 
original  Scottish  farce  fov  fish,  was  simply  oatmeal,  minced 
Buet  or  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  onions,  made  into  a  coarse 
forcemeat,  for  stuffing  the  heads  of  haddocks  and  whitings. 
Modem  Crappit  Heads  are  farced  with  the  ingredients 
mentioned  in  Nob.  134,  149 ;  or  with  the  fleshy  parts  of 
a  boiled  lobster  or  crab,  minced ;  a  boned  anchovy,  the 
chopped  yolk  of  an  egg,  grated  bread  or  pounded  biscuit, 
white  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  a  large  piece  of  butter  broken 
down  into  bits,  with  beat  eggs  to  bind,  and  a  little  oyster- 
liquor.  A  plainer  and  perhaps  as  suitable  stuffing  may 
be  made  of  the  soft  roe  of  haddock  or  cod  parboiled, 
skinned,  and  minced,  mixed  with  double  its  bulk  of 
pounded  rusks  or  bread-crumbs,  a  good  piece  of  butter, 
shred  parsley,  and  seasonings,  with  an  egg  to  cement  the 
forcemeat.  Place  the  crappit  or  stufled  heads  on  end,  in 
the  bottom  of  a  buttered  stew-pan;  pour  the  fish-soup 
gently  over  them  ;  cover  and  boil  a  half-hour. 

Rizzared  Haddocks,  —  This  receipt  we  consider  the  ne 
plus  ultra  of  haddock  cookery.  Clean  thoroughly  a 
Cromarty  Bay  or  Moray  Firth  moderate  sized  haddock. 
Rub  it  with  a  very  little  salt.  Hang  it  on  a  fishrhakcy 
and  next  morning  cut  ofl^  the  head,  take  out  the  back-bone, 
skin,  dust  with  flour,  and  broil  it  and  serve  with  slices  of 
fresh  butter.  In  two  days  its  flavour  will  have  deterio- 
i-ated.     It  is  an  excellent  dish  for  a  convalescent. 

748.  Sheep* s- Head  Broth,* — Choose  a  large,  fat,  young 

*  This  National  preparation  was  wont  to  be  a  favourite  Sunday- 


SHEEP's-HBAD  BROTH.  437 

head.  When  carefully  singed  by  the  blacksmith,  if  it 
cannot  be  done  at  home,  soak  it  and  the  singed  trotters 

dinner  dish  in  many  comfortable  Scottish  fiunilies.  Where  gentle- 
men *'  killed  their  own  matton,^*  the  head  was  reserved  for  the  Sanday*8 
hroth ;  and  to  good  family  customers  and  victuallers,  a  prime  tup^s  head 
was  a  common  Saturday*s  gift  from  the  hutchers  with  whom  they 
dealt.  By  the  way,  nationally  speakinr,  we  ought  to  say  ^fiesherSf  as 
our  countrymen  would,  till  very  lately,  have  been  mortally  offended  at 
the  designation  of  "  butcher.^ 

Sheep^s-head  broth  is  reckoned  medicini^  in  certain  cases ;  and  was 
frequently  prescribed  as  an  article  of  diet  by  the  celebrated  Dr.  CuUen. 

This  dish  has  furnished  whole  pages  to  Joe  Miller  and  his  right  witty 
contemporaries.  In  one  of  the  most  pleasing  pieces  of  biography  that 
ever  was  written,  '*The  Life  of  Lady  Grizel  Baillie,**  there  is  an 
amusing  '*  Sheep  Vhead  anecdote,**  which  at  once  affords  a  glimpse  of 
the  simplicity  ox  the  National  manners,  and  of  the  dexterity  and  good 
sense  of  the  affectionate  and  very. juvenile  heroine.  Her  father,  Sir 
Patrick  Home,  proscribed  after  the  Restoration,  was  hidden  near  his 
own  mansion, — his  lady  and  his  daughter  Grizel  being  alone  privy  to 
his  place  of  concealment.  It  was  tiie  duty  of  this  young  girl,  not  only 
to  carry  food  to  her  father  during  the  night,  but  to  abstract  these  sup- 
plies from  the  dinner-table,  so  Uiat  neither  the  servants  nor  younger 
children  might  be  aware  that  there  was  an  invisible  guest  to  feeid.  Her 
inordinate  appetite  and  stratagems  to  procure  food  became  the  cause  of 
many  jokes  at  table ;  and  one  day,  when  a  sheep^s  head  —  a  favourite 
dish  wi^  Sir  Patrick — was  produced,  she  had  just  conveyed  nearly  the 
whole  into  her  lap,  when  her  young  brother,  afterwards  £arl  of  March- 
mont,  looked  up,  and  exclaimed,  —  ^  Mother,  mother,  look  at  Ghrizel ; 
while  we  have  been  taking  our  broth,  she  has  eaten  up  the  whole 
sheep^s  head  !** — The  consternation  of  young  Home  could  not,  however, 
exceed  that  of  a  learned  gentleman,  who  lately  filled  a  chair  in  the 
Edinburgh  University,  upon  a  somewhat  similar  occasion.      Before 

tilling  his  late  honourable  situation.  Professor was  for  some 

years  a  professor  in  S College ;  and,  as  might  have  been  sur- 
mised, in  the  lapse  of  those  years  of  exile,  experienced  a  natural  and 
national  longing  for  HuX  savoury  food,  which  to  a  Scotsman  is  like  his 
mother^s  milk.  A  sheep^s  head  was  accordingly  procured  by  his  orders, 
and  sent  to  the  blacksmith's  to  be  singed.  The  hour  of  dinner  arrived  ; 
the  chops  of  the  learned  professor  watered  with  expectation  ;  when,  lo ! 
to  his  disappointment  and  horror,  tiie  fleshless  bkuII  was  presented ; 
and,  doubly  worse,  accompanied  with  the  sauce  of  a  bill,  setting  forth, — 

**  To  polishing  a  sheep's  head  for  Professor ,  one  shilling  and 

fourpence!**  —  Thus  making  the  unfortunate  philosopher  comedown 
with  sixteen  shillings.  Soots  money,  for  being  deprived  of  the  exquisite 
pleasure  which  he  1^  anticipated  in  polishing  the  skull  himself. 

The  village  of  Duddingston  was  long  celebrated  for  *'  sheep's  head,** 
and  consequently  a  favourite  resort  of  the  frugal  citizens  of  Ldinburgh. 
Sheep*s  head  clubs  were  not  unfrequent  throughout  the  country,  and 
**  Thb  Tup*8  Head  Dinner  **  about  Michaelmas-day  is  still  a  hiffh 
and  appropriate  solemn  festival  with  the  official  dignitaries  in  certain 
of  our  Scottish  Royal  boroughs.  —  This  was  first  said  before  the  days  of 
Reform.    They  may,  alas  I  have  changed  all  that  now. 


438     CHAF,  III. — SCOTCH  AND  OTRER  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

for  a  night,  if  you  please,  in  lukewarm  water. — Take  out 
the  glasay  part  of  the  eyes  only,  scrape  the  head  and 
trotters,  and  brush  till  perfectly  clean  and  white ;  then 
split  the  head  with  a  cleaver,  and  lay  aside  the  brains, 
&c. ;  clean  the  nostrils  and  gristly  parts,  split  also  the 
trotters,  and  cut  out  the  tendons.  Wash  the  head  and 
feet  once  more,  and  let  them  blanch  till  wanted  for  the 
pot. 

Take  a  large  cupful  of  barley,  and  about  twice  that 
quantity  of  soaked  white,  or  dried  or  fresh  green  peas, 
with  a  gallon  or  rather  more  of  wat«r.  Put  to  this  the 
head  tied  up,  and  from  two  to  three  pounds  of  scrag  or 
trimmings  of  mutton,  perfectly  sweet,  and  some  salt. 
Take  off  the  scum  yery  carefully  as  it  rises,  and  the 
broth  will  be  as  limpid  and  white  as  any  broth  made  of 
beef  or  mutton.  When  the  head  has  boiled  rather  more 
than  an  hour,  add  sliced  carrot  and  turnip,  afterwards 
some  onions,  and  lastly  parsley  shred.  A  head  or  two  of 
celery  sliced  is  admired  by  some  modem  gourmands, 
though  we  rather  approve  of  the  native  flavour  of  this 
really  excellent  soup.  The  more  slowly  the  head  is  boiled, 
the  better  will  both  the  meat  and  soup  be.  From  three 
to  five  hours'  boiling,  according  to  the  size  of  the  head  and 
the  age  of  the  animal,  and  an  hour's  simmering  by  the  side 
of  the  fire,  will  finish  the  soup.  Many  prefer  the  head  of  a 
ram  to  that  of  a  wether,  but  it  requires  much  longer 
boiling.  In  either  case  the  trotters  require  rather  less 
boiling  than  the  head.  Serve  with  the  trotters,  and  sliced 
carrot  round  the  head.  A  pound  or  two  of  scrag  is  a 
great  addition. 

Sheep's  head,  not  too  much  boiled,  makes  a  good  pie,  if 
nicely  cut  down  with  the  peeled  tongue,  or  an  excellent 
ragout  or  hash  of  higher  flavour  than  calfs  head  ragout. 
— Obs.  The  sauces  ordered  for  boiled  mutton  and  cow-heel 
are  well  adapted  to  this  dish,  if  sauCe  must  be  had  where 
it  is  so  little  required.^     For  the  roffout,  a  sauce  may  be 

*  The  reTiewer  of  the  first  edition  of  this  work  in  Blackwood^s  Ma^- 
zine  snegests  that  there  should  be  two  heads  and  eiffht  trotters^  which 
admirable  emendation  certainly  more  than  doubles  the  value  of  our 
receipt. 


lamb's  head.  439 

made  of  the  broth  seasoned  and  thickened  with  butter, 
flour,  and  chopped  parsley.     See  No.  99. 

748.^  The  Scottish  dressed  Lamh^s  Head — a  remove  of 
fish  or  soup  as  a  top-dish.  —  This  dish  is  a  universal 
favourite  in  its  native  land,  and  in  nothing  inferior  to  the 
best  French  style  of  dressing.  See  Nos.  467  and  499. 
Take  out  the  watery  part  of  the  eyes ;  scald  and  clean 
the  head.  Boil  it  and  the  appurtenances  as  directed 
at  No.  722  ;  but  keep  one  half  of  the  liver  to  fry.  Boil 
the  lights  for  at  least  two  hours,  the  heart,  head,  and  half 
the  liver  and  heart,  for  one  hour.  Mince  the  heart,  half  the 
liver,  and  the  tongue  peeled ;  season  the  mince  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  chopped  parsley,  and  put  it  to  stew  with  a  little 
good  stock.  Split  the  head  and  take  out  the  brains,  of 
which  to  make  brain-cakes,  as  directed  at  No.  588.  Brush 
the  spread-out  split  head  with  e^y  and  crumb  it  with  fine 
crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  parsley  ;  stir 
more  e^^  into  the  crumbs,  and  crumb  again  and  again 
until  the  meat  of  the  head  is  well  covered  with  a  thick 
layer  as  it  browns  in  the  Dutch  oven.  Stick  bits  of 
butter  over  it,  and  baste  with  its  own  gravy.  Have  the 
brain-cake  batter  ready ;  slice  in  scollops  the  half  liver 
reserved,  and  fry  as  directed  at  No.  63.  Fry  the  brain- 
cakes,  in  cakes  of  about  the  size  of  the  mouth  of  a  small  tea^ 
cup.  Add  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  or  a  point  of  cayenne  to 
the  hash  if  you  choose,  and  serve  it  under  the  browned 
head,  with  brain- cakes  and  scollops  of  liver  alternately 
around  it.  This  dish  is  not  nearly  so  savoury  where  the 
neck  is  not  left  on  the  head  as  it  is  in  Scotland.  The  neck 
cooked  as  above  is  perhaps  the  most  delicate  preparation  of 
lamb. 

749.  Leek-Porridge,* — Make  this  as  cock-a-leekie,  and 
thicken  with  toasted  or  fried  bread.     Prunes  are  sometimes 

*  The  Leeli  is  one  of  the  most  honourable  and  ancient  of  pot- 
herbs. It  is  called  par  excellence  "  the  herb  ;  '*  and  learned  critics 
assert  that  our  word  porridge  or  pottage  is  derived  from  the  Latin 
porrttSy  a  leek,  "  From  Indus  to  Peru,"  the  adoration  of  the  garlic, 
onion,  and  leek  is  universal.  The  leek  is  the  badge  of  a  high-spirited, 
honourable,  and  fiery  nation — the  Ancient  Britons.    In  the  old  poetry 


440     CHAP.  Ul.— 600TCH  AKD  OTHER  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

put  into  this  composition.  The  custom  is  nearly  obsolete. 
—See  No.  726. 

750.  Pan-Kaily  a  Mature  Soup, — ^Mince  cabbage,  savoys, 
or  German  greens;  boil  them  in  water,  thickened  with 
oatmeal,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  or  dripping,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Kail  is  also  made  by  parboiling  and  mashing  the 
greens,  putting  them  to  hot  pot-liquor,  and  thickening 
the  soup  with  bread  or  pounded  biscuit.  Both  must  be 
a  rather  thick  pottage. 

751.  Plnm-Parridge,  -^  Boil  ten  pounds  of  a  shin  for 
five  hours  in  a  gallon  of  water.  Skim  carefully.  Strain 
off  the  liquor,  and  put  to  it  a  piece  of  veal  cut  from  the 
fillet.  Soften  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  in  the  soup,  and 
beat  it  smoothly.  Thicken  the  soup  with  this,  and  put  to 
it  a  half  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  and  a  half  pound  of 
stoned  prunes,  a  pound  of  currants  well  cleaned,  and 
some  pepper,  mace,  and  grated  nutmeg.  When  the  fruit 
is  soft,  tbe  dish  is  ready.  A  little  more  bread  may  be 
used,  if  greater  consistence  is  wanted,  and  the  veal  may 
be  omitted. 

751.'  Breakfast  Potatoes.  ^^  We  must  confess,  that  in 
Ireland,  and  the  Highlands  and  Isles  of  Scotland,  our 
gorge  has  rebelled  against  the  usual  dish  of  boOed 
potatoes  at  breakfast  time ;  but  the  mashed  potatoes  of  the 
former  day,  sliced  and  broiled,  are  an  admirable  accom- 
paniment to  broiled  ham,  or  a  rizzared  haddock. 

752.  A  Pilau,  —  Stew  some  rice  in  stock,  or  with 
butter,  and  season  it  with  white  pepper,  mace,  cayenne, 
and  cloves.  Place  two  small  boiled  fowls,  or  a  few  dressed 
veal  or  mutton  cutlets,  in  the  centre  of  a  large  dish,  and 
lay  some  slices  of  boiled  bacon  around  them.  Cover  with 
boiled  rice ;  smooth  and  glaze  the  rice  with  egg^  and  set 
the  dish  before  the  fire  or  in  the  oven,  to  brown.  Garnish 
with  divided  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  fried  onions, 
or  use  forcemeat  balls. — Obs,  This  is  no  bad  dish,  what- 
ever country  owns  it.    A  mgre  Oriental  complexion  may 

of  the  Northern  nations,  where  a  young  man  would  now  he  styled  the 
fiower^  he  was  called  **  the  U^  of  his  family,  or  tribe,^* — an  epithet  of 
most  savoury  meaning. 


niAV  OT  TSAL.  441 

Be  given  to  the  dish  by  frying  the  riee  in  bntter,  stirring 
it  with  a  fork  till  of  a  light  brown,  and  then  stewing  it 
in  stock  till  soft.* — See  No.  755. 

753.  Pilau  of  Veal —  Half-roast  a  breast  of  veal,  and 
cut  it  into  small  neat  pieces.  Season  these  highly,  and 
stew  them  in  rich  gravy.  Lay  a  casserole  of  rice  ronnd 
a  dishy  and  pnt  the  meat  in  the  centre.  Cover  with 
more  rice,  and  set  the  dish  in  the  oven  for  a  short  time, 
having  first  glazed  it  with  eggs. — Ohs.  Carrie-powder  may 
with  advantage  be  used  for  this  piUm ;  and  it  may  be 
made  of  dressed  veaL  Pilau  is  also  made  haked^  of  a  mix- 
ture of  bacon,  chicken,  and  onions,  in  layers.  A  fowl, 
capon,  or  small  turkey,  trussed  as  for  boiling,  makes  an 
handsome  pilau  dressed  as  in  this  receipt ;  but  cover  the 
breast  with  bacon,  which  remove  before  dishing.  A  hind- 
quarter  of  lamb  makes  a  nice  pilau.  Braise  the  leg,  fry 
the  loin  in  steaks,  and  treat  it  as  above. 

754.  An  Olio.  —  Boil  in  a  close-covered  pot,  a  fowl,  a 
couple  of  partridges,  a  piece  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  a  knuckle 
of  veal,  and  a  few  rump-steaks ;  also  a  piece  of  good  bacon 
or  ham.  Brown  the  meat  first ;  add  boiling  water ;  and 
when  it  has  boiled  an  hour,  add  parsley,  celery,  young 
onions,  peas,  carrot,  turnip,  and  a  bit  of  garlic,  if  it  is 
liked,  with  salt  and  mixed  spices.  Serve  the  whole  to- 
gether, first  picking  out  the  bacon.  Seasoning  herbs  may 
also  be  used. — See  Pepper-poty  p.  172.  An  olio  is  properly 
a  Spanish  dish  ;  but  Spain  as  a  nation  is  not  eminent  in 
cookery,  though  the  Olioy  and  a  few  more  of  its  omne" 
gatherum  stews  of  meat,  pulse  and  roots,  are  worthy  of  atten- 
tion. In  "  Murray's  Hand-book  of  Spain,"  will  be  found 
as  tnany  Spanish  receipts  as  any  one  cares  for. 

755.  Chifka  ChUo,  —  Mince  a  pound  and  a  half  of  good 
mutton  and  four  ounces  of  mutton-suet.  Stew  this  in 
stock  or  with  butter,  and  add  a  pint  of  green  peas,  young 
onions,  and  a  little  shred  lettuce.  Skim  off  the  fat. 
Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  white  pepper.  Heap 
boiled  rice  round  a  shallow  soup-dish,  and  serve  the  stew 

*  This  is  the  same  dish  kno-wn  in  French  cookery  as  CapotiB  a  la 
Turqucy  except  that  the  bodies  of  the  foTvls  are  then  stuffed  with  the 
boiled  rice. 


442      CHAP.  III. — SCOTCH  AND  OTHER  NATIONAL  DISHBS. 

or  ehilo  in  the  middle. — Ohs,  Veal  or  fowl  may  be  dressed 
as  above.  A  little  currie -powder  may  be  added  to  the 
seasoning.  The  zest  of  carrots,  cut  in  very  small  cubes^ 
will  supply  the  place  of  peas  in  winter ;  so  will  celery. 

7o6.  Fricandelle.  —  Take  one  pound  of  the  lean  of  a 
leg  of  veal,  half  a  pound  of  veal  suet^  four  rusks  soaked 
in  milk,  four  eggs,  (leaving  out  two  whites,)  some  onions, 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  lemon-peel ;  chop  all  together 
very  fine,  and  make  three  balls  of  it,  which  you  must  put 
into  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  four  minutes.  Make  a 
gravy  of  the  skin,  bones,  &c.  all  which  must  be  carefully 
taken  out  of  the  veal.  Fry  the  balls  a  light  brown  in 
butter,  and  stew  them  half  an  hour  in  the  gravy.  Gar- 
nish the  dish  with  slices  of  lemon  ;  thicken  the  sauce  with 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  if  too  thin.  It  ought  to  be  very 
thick.  {From  a  Correspondent.)  —  Obs,  This  may  be 
made  of  beef,  or  of  fowl,  or  game  ;  it  may  also  be  baked 
in  a  mould  and  turned  out. — See  No.  692. 

757.  MulUzgatawny^  or  Currie  Soup^  as  made  in 
India,— 'H&ve  ready  pounded  and  sifted  an  ounce  of  cori- 
ander seeds,  the  third  of  an  ounce  of  cassia,  three  drachms 
of  black  and  two  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  China  turmeric  ;  mix  them  well.  This  quantity 
will  do  either  for  two  chickens,  a  large  fowl,  or  three 
pounds  of  meat.  Cut  down  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  and 
let  it  boil  slowly  for  a  half-hour  in  two  quarts  of  water  ; 
then  put  to  it  four  onions,  and  three  cloves  of  garlic  slired 
and  fried  in  two  ounces  of  butter.  Mix  down  the  season- 
ings with  a  little  of  the  broth  and  rice-flour,  and  strain 
them  into  the  stew-pan,  which  must  simmer  till  the  soup 
is  smooth  and  thick  as  cream.  When  it  is  within  five 
minutes  of  being  finished,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or 
citric  acid  in  the  same  proportion.  Serve  the  meat  and 
soup  in  a  tureen  ;  and  boiled  rice  in  a  hot  water  dish. 
This  is  a  good  plain  currie  soup ;  but  for  plain  English 
people,  use  fewer  coriander  seeds,  and  less  turmeric  ;  and 
blanch  the  garlic  in  two  waters.  Though  there  is  no  acid 
for  cookery  equal  in  delicacy  to  lemon  acid,  sour  apples, 
tamarinds,  and  other  tlfings  are  often  used  to  acidulate 
curiies. — See  Nos.  82,  and  355. 


BXCIPES  FOR  CURRIE  FOWDBB8.  443 

▼ARIOUS  RBCIPBS  FOB  CURRIE  POWDERS. 

768.  —  Hare  of  fresh  seeds  of  the  best  quality, 
coriander  four  ounces,  cummin  two  ounces,  fenugneck 
two  oiisces,  cayenne  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  China 
turmeric  six  ounces.  Dry,  pound,  sift,  and  weigh  the 
seeds,. and  use  them  in  the  above  proportions,  adding  more 
cayenne,  with  acids  and  turmeric  as  required,  when  the 
dish  is  dressing.  The  usual  acids  are  very  acid  apples,  or 
lemon-juice ;  or  for  some  curries  tamarinds.  If  to  this 
you  add  black  pepper,  mustard-flour,  and  ginger  pounded, 
about  a  half  ounce  of  each,  you  have  Dr.  Kitchiners 
Currie-Powder,     See  Simple  Ourrie-powdery  No.  1124. 

768.* — Rabbit  Currie,  SeotHsh. — ^From  causes  with  which 
we  have  here  no  concern,  Scotland  within  the  last  twenty 
years,  and  especially  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  preserves 
of  great  landed  proprietors,  is  overrun  with  rabbits  :  they 
are,  however,  though  perhaps  not  worth  their  keep,  found 
very  useful  to  small  families  far  from  markets  They  are 
dressed  in  every  way  for  which  we  have  given  receipts,  but 
perhaps,  next  to  the  oldest  way  of  No.  15,  there  is  none 
better  than  the  modem  mode  of— currie. — Choose  one  or 
two,  as  you  w^ish,  fat,  fresh  rabbits :  examine  the  kidney. 
Carve  each  into  at  least  twelve  nice  pieces  :  brown  these 
in  butter,  with  onions.  When  browned,  if  you  wish  deli- 
cate cookery,  pour  off  the  butter,  and  add  three  quarters 
of  a  pint  of  well-seasoned  stock  for  each  rabbit,  a  spoonful 
of  currie-powder,  and  one  of  flour,  and  six  ounces  of  streaky 
bacon  cut  in  half  inch  cubes  or  dice,  and  also  a  half  dozen 
button  onions  for  each  rabbit :  season  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful' of  mushroom-powder.  Simmer  this  slowly  for  half 
an  hour  at  least ;  stirring  it  like  all  curries.  Add  what 
more  seasoning  you  think  required,  as  cayenne^  a  little 
turmeric,  or  some  acid.  Pile  up  the  pieces  of  rabbit,  and 
pour  the  sauce, — which  should  be  thickish,  as  in  all  currie 
dishes — over  :  serve  plain  boiled  rice  in  a  separate  dish  as. 
with  all  curries.  Fresh  cocoa^nttt,  now  obtained  so  reason- 
ably, is  an  excellent  ingi-edient  in  mild  curries.  Rasp  and 
stew  it  the  whole  time  :  we  do  not  like  green  vegetables  in 
curries,  though  they  are  sometimes  used.  Mushrooms  are 
an  enrichment,  and  celery  is  good. 


444     CHAP.  III.7--600TCH  AND  OTHER  NATIONAt  DISHES. 

759.  The  Spanish  Puchero, — Cut  down  as  for  our 
family  currie,  three  pounds  of  shin  of  beef » a  half  pound  of 
salt  porky  a  fowl,  with  the  gizzard  and  liver,  a  turnip  and 
carrot  cut  down  ;  three  onions^  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  a  high  seasoning  of  black  pepper, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  small  peas  called  Garhanzas^ 
(if  you  can  get  them,)  or  substitute  cooked  chestnuts :  stew 
very  slowly  in  three  pints  of  water.  This,  we  fear,  is  but 
a  poor  imitation  of  tiie  genuine  Puehero^  and  yet  no  bad 
dish. 

760.  The  Garburey  a  Dish  of  the  North  of  Europe. — 
Take  a  fresh  hock  of  ham,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  six 
pounds  of  the  flank  piece  of  beef  well  beat.  Sweat  this 
over  a  slow  fire,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley,  three  onions 
stuck  with  cloves,  and  three  carrots,  putting  in  a  pint  of 
stock  or  water  at  the  first.  When  the  meat  is  well  heated, 
and  the  juices  drawn  out,  add  five  or  six  pints  of  stock, 
and  stew  the  whole  slowly  for  two  hours.  Have  some 
firm  white  cabbages  cleaned,  quartered,  and  blanched, 
and  braise  them  between  layers  of  bacon  with  a  little 
broth  till  rich  and  mellow,  when  they  must  be  put  to  the 
broth ;  now  add  ten  small  sausages,  or  the  legs  of  salted 
geese  previously  dressed.  Toast  slices  of  rye-bread,  (or 
brown  bread  as  a  substitute,)  and  on  a  bed  of  this  lay  the 
cabbage,  drained  of  fat,  with  the  ham  above  it  in  the 
middle,  and  the  sausages  or  geese-legs  round  it.  Serve 
the  broth  separately  as  a  soup.  Make  the  quantities  to 
suit,  as  in  all  receipts,  but  the  above  are  the  proportions. 

761 .  German  Onion  Beef  or  Ztoiebel  Fleisch, — Put  six 
pounds  of  the  thin  flank  (skinned  if  you  choose)  to  two 
quarts  of  water  or  weak  fresh  broth ;  stew  it  an  hour 
in  a  close  stew-pan.  Add  to  it  the  thin  rind  of  two 
lemons,  a  quarter-ounce  of  bruised  cloves,  two  bay-leaves, 
one  dozen  black  and  two  dozen  Jamaica  peppercorns,  in  a 
spice-bag,  and  salt ;  stew  a  half-hour.  Add  a  dozen  large 
sliced  onions,  and  stew  till  they  are  tender.  Skim  off  the 
fat,  and  thicken  the  gravy.  Boil  up,  season  and  dish, 
taking  out  the  pepper,  rinds,  and  bay  leaves. 

762.  German  Sauer  Orout,  a  suhstittite  for  Potatoes.'-^ 
Shred  down,  as  if  for  pickling,  eighteen  or  twenty  large,. 


RSCIPES  ffOft  CimKlS  fOWSfEBS.  44*^ 

finn,  white  dnim-€ablMig<e8y  fully  ripened,  and  better  if 
mellowed  by  frost.     Fumigate  a  tight,  clean  cask,   or 
batter  tub,  by  bnming  a  handful  of  green  wood  in  it.    Rnb 
the  seams  with  a  dongfa  made  of  yinegar  and  floor,  or 
leaven,  and  strew  in  a.handfnl  of  salt,  with  a  few  cam- 
way  seeds ;  and  so  proceed  with  alternate  layers  of  alioed 
cabbage,  and  salt  and  carraway  seeds,  till  the  Teasel  b 
filled,  pressing  ereiy  saccessiYe  layer  firmly  down.     Pour 
off  part  of  the  liquor  which  will  coUect  on  the  top  when  the 
cabbage  is  pressed  down.    Cover,  and  place  the  vessel  in  a 
rather  warm  temperature,  when  the  cabbage  will  quickly 
ferment.  When  it  has  fermented  for  above  a  fortnight,  take 
off  the  scum ;  throw  a  piece  of  cloth  over  the  cabbage, 
and  put  on  the  head  of  the  cask,  which  press  down  on 
the  cabbages  with  heavy  stones,  keeping  them   always 
covered  with  the  pickle-liquor.    In  a  cool,  dry  cellar,  it 
will  keep  for  years.     Two  ounces  of  salt  will  be  sufficient 
for  a  large  cabbage.     (Gin,  juniper-berries,  and  wine,  are 
suggested  by  French  cooks  for  Sauer  Croui,    Absurdities !) 
When  wanted,  boil  in  water  for  three  or  four  hours ;  drain 
and  stew  in  broth,  or  with  a  piece  of  coarse  beef  or  a 
knuckle  of  ham.    It  is  served  with  or  over  dry  hashes,  or 
sliced  meat  re-dressed ;  also,  instead  of  potato-paste,  and 
over  beef-st«ak  pie,  or  stewed  duck  (next  receipt)  or  goose 
salted  ;  and  is  a  good  accompaniment  to  many  meat  dishes 
that  used  to  be  served  with  mashed  potatoes.     Old  cheese 
is  sometimes  grated  over  the  cooked  croui, 

762.*  Duck  with  Sauer  Crout,  German.  —  Braise  a  half- 
pound  of  drained  sauer  crout  with  a  good  piece  of  bacon, 
parsley,  onions,  spices,  and  sweet  herbs,  and  any  fresh 
braise  liquor  you  have.  Lay  tlie  duck  in  the  middle  of  it, 
cover  with  more  slices  of  bacon ;  moisten  with  top-fat,  and 
stew  slowly.  When  about  half-done,  add  some  small 
sausages.  Drain  the  sauer  crout  when  ready  to  serve,  and 
place  the  duck  over  it,  with  the  sausages  around.— Oto. 
These  dishes  are  for  the  first  course  in  place  of  our  soups, 
and  must  be  served  in  deep  dishes. 

763.  Provence  Brandade,  an  excellent  way  of  dressing 

SaU  FisL-^SoBk  in  water  and  brush  the  fish,  (some  use 

.  lime-water  to  whiten,  but  we  do  not  recommend  it.)    Stew 


44G        CHAP.  III. — SCOTCH  AND  OTHBR  NATIONAL  DISHES. 

it  as  directed  for  salt  cod  or  ling,  No.  128.  Oil  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  butter  (or  use  oil  and  butter)  in  a  small 
stew-pan,  with  chopped  parsley  and  a  bruised  clove  of 
garlic.  Scale  and  pull  the  fish  to  small  pieces,  and  shake 
these  well  in  the  stew-pan  to  make  them  melt  to  a  mass 
in  the  oil.  The  stew-pan  must  be  all  along  vigorously 
shaken. 

N.B. — An  easier  way  of  dressing  this  dish  is  to  pound 
the  fish,  and  bake  it  with  the  butter,  in  paste  or,  better, 
in  potato-pastry.  This  is  very  similar  to  Dr  Hunter's 
teased  skate,  No.  130. 

764.  Irish  Stew, — Having  taken  the  loose  fat  from  a 
loin  or  neck  of  mutton,  cut  from  two  to  four  pounds  of  it 
into  small  well-shaped  chops.  Flatten,  and  season  them 
with  salt  and  mixed  spices.  Peel  six  or  eight  onions ; 
parboil  and  skin  two  pounds  of  potatoes  for  one  of  meat. 
Lay  some  shred  suet  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  add  a 
half-pint  of  stock,  or  two  ounces  of  melted  butter.  Slice 
in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  place  a  layer  of  chops,  then 
strew  in  the  onions,  then  again  the  potatoes  and  chops, 
and  let  the  top  be  covered  with  potatoes.  A  shank  or 
small  bit  of  ham,  or  a  scrape  of  smoked  tongue,  or  a  little 
sausage  meat,  is  an  addition  to  this  favourite  family-dish. 
It  must  stove  very  slowly,  and  the  pan  must  be  closely 
and  constantly  covered. — Obs.  Hunter's  Pie  is  another 
excellent  form  of  Irish  stew,  only  this  is  sometimes  made 
of  beef-coUops  instead  of  mutton-chops ;  and  the  pota- 
toes are  always  mashed.  Place  the  potatoes,  meat,  and 
onions,  in  alternate  layers  in  an  earthenware  pie-dish, 
and  bake  them  ;  the  top  layer  of  potatoes  may  be  neatly 
scored,  scolloped  on  the  edges,  and  glazed  with  eggs,  if 
approved.  Care  must  be  taken  to  cover  the  potato-pastry, 
else  it  will  scorch  before  the  meat  is  done.  A  fashionable 
or  French-Irish  stew  is  baked  in  a  mould,  en  casserole^  and 
turned  out  when  sex'ved. — Mashed  potatoes  make  an  excel- 
lent wholesome  paste  to  cover  or  form  layers  in  plain  meat- 
pies  of  all  kinds,  particularly  pies  of  fat  meat.  See  Potato 
Pasty,  Some  cooks  wrap  an  old  napkin  round  the  stew- 
pan  lid,  which  forms  a  kind  of  luting  in  dressing  this  and 
other  stored  dishes.    [There  is  a  kind  of  cottage-oven  used 


TRIPS.  447 

in  Ireland  and  other  places,  in  form  of  a  wide  stew-pan; 
made  of  cast  iron,  with  a  lid  of  the  same  thiekness,  on 
which  embers  of  turf  are  put.  This  is  placed  over  other 
embers,  and  an  equal,  slow  heat  is  maintained,  which 
dresses  a  stew,  bakes  a  pudding  or  a  bit  of  meat,  and  is 
found  very  useful  at  other  times  as  a  cottage-pot.]] 

Another  Plain  Irish  Stew. — Flatten  cutlets  of  the  back- 
ribs.  Season  with  pepper  and  (if  you  like)  mushroom- 
powder.  Stew  with  plenty  of  shred  onions  and  parsley 
in  a  broth  drawn  from  the  bones,  &c.,  and  when  nearly 
done  add  peeled  potatoes.  When  a  thick  stew,  serve  in  a 
deep  dish. 

765.  Irish  Tripe, — Cook  some  onions  in  milk  and  water. 
If  large,  divide  them,  and  have  plenty  of  them.'  Add 
the  tripe,  cut  in  strips,  and  thicken  as  much  of  the  sauce 
with  butter,  flour,  and  a  little  mustard,  as  will  sauce  the 
tripe.  Serve  the  onions  in  it.  Vinegar  or  lemon-juice 
may  be  added.     See  Nos.  16,  66,  265,  742. 

766.  Bread  and  Meat,  or  KboibS, — We  have  been  fa- 
voured with  a  receipt  for  this  savoury  preparation,  which, 
at  sea,  in  camp,  on  Indian  hunting-excursions,  and  long 
marches  in  India,  is  found  to  be  very  convenient.  Make 
a  dough  with  yeast  as  for  bread ;  when  yeast  cannot  be 
obtained,  use  whites  of  eggs  or  milk.  In  India,  cocoa-nut 
is  used  to  raise  the  dough  with  good  effect.  Roll  out  the 
paste  very  thick,  and  wrap  meat  into  it  (fat  meat  is  best) 
of  any  kind,  cut  and  seasoned  in  any  way  that  is  most 
convenient  or  agreeable.  The  dish  may  then  be  either 
boiled  or  baked.  This  species  of  camp-cookery  is  carried 
to  some  perfection  in  India,  and  might  be  found  useful  in 
all  our  new  or  thinly-populated  colonies.  It  is  applicable 
to  all  kinds  of  game,  poultry,  and  meat.  Fowls  thus 
cooked  may  be  stuffed  with  hard  eggs,  chopped  parsley, 
oysters,  &c. ;  as  veal,  with  a  forcemeat ;  goose,  pig,  and 
duck,  either  with  apples  or  onions,  as  the  sauce  is  wanted. 
The  stuffed  things  must  be  well  skewered,  or  sewed  before 
they  are  put  into  the  dough,  which  forms  a  crust  about 
the  meat ;  thus  combining  bread,  meat,  and  sauce  in  one 
portable  dish. 

767.  Milcau,  a  South  American  Preparation.  —  This 


I 

i 


448    CHAP.  ni. — ^SCOTCH  and  other  natioxal  dishes. 

palatable  and  even  elegant  dish  somewhat  resembles  th« 
Italian  pastes.  Potatoes,  and  a  species  of  pumpkin,  are 
roasted,  the  pulp  taken  out  and  kneaded  with  salt  and 
eggs.  The  paste  is  then  rolled  out,  cut  into  little  bits 
about  the  size  of  a  dollar,  and  boiled  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  in  milk  sweetened. 

768.  Le  Ban  Diable. — This  favourite  bonne  hauchey  for 
which  we  have  obtained  the  receipt  from  a  lady  who  has 
contributed  many  valuable  articles  to  this  work,  is  thus 
prepared  at  Pondicherry :  —  Score  the  devil  (whether  of 
duck,  goose,  or  turkey)  deeply  in  all  directions ;  and,  sea- 
soning it  highly  with  mixed  spices,  send  it  from  the  table 
to  be  broiled.*  Meanwhile,  take  from  each  dish  at  table  a 
spoonful  of  sauce  or  gravy,  and,  stirring  this  well  in  a 
silver  saucepan  over  the  fire,  have  it  ready,  boiling-hot,  to 
pour  over  the  grill,  or  ban  diahU,  which  is  then  handed 
round. — Ohs,  The  parts  usually  deviled  are  the  rump,  the 
gizzard,  and  drumsticks.  Soy,  lemon-juice,  and  made- 
mustard  may  be  added  to  the  sauce. — See  Devils  and  Salmis, 
Nos.  660,  672,  3,  4. — Deviled  Almonds  to  serve  with  Wine. 
Blanch,  dry,  and  fry  them  in  fresh  butter,  of  a  light 
brown.  Drain,  dust  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and 
serve  hot  as  a  relish. 

769,  Indian  Burdwan,  —  This  eastern  preparation  is  of 
the  English  genus  Devil,  or  French  Salmi,  It  is  made  of 
cold  poultry,  kid,  rabbits,  venison,  or  other  game,  but  is  best 
of  venison.  Makea  sauce  of  melted  butter  with  cayenne, 
or,  if  possible,  a  fresh  Chili ;  a  bit  of  garlic,  essence  of 
anchovy,  and  a  sliced  Spanish  onion.  Stew  over  a  spirit- 
lamp  tUi  the  onion  is  pulpy,  when  the  Burdwan  will  be 
ready.  Squeeze  in  a  lime  or  Seville  orange.  Serve  round 
very  hot.* 

*  It  would  be  very  easy  to  swell  this  section  of  our  Manual  with  a 
formidable  array  of  uncouth  dishes  and  strange  names,  with  Indian, 
Syrian,  Turkish,  and  Persian  Yauahs,  CabauM,  and  Cuscmsuies,  &c. 
as  modern  travellers,  and  particularly  the  French,  have  paid  consider" 
able  attention  to  Asiatic  cookery  ;  but  this  we  consider  mere  waste  of 
space,  which  may  be  more  usefully  employed.  We  have  however  been 
requested  to  make  room  for  this  Italian  preparation : — 

SttghliOf  or  Gravy  of  Beef  eairacted  in  Wine. — ^This  Italian  preparar 
tiou  is  a  rich  gravy,  in  which  fowls,  game,  mullet,  truffles,  macaroni, 


PASTBTy  PIES,  &C.  440 

On  other  National  Dishes  we  have  nothing  more  to  say. 
When  not  French  or  Anglo-French^  they  are  barbarous ; 

of  the  fourteenth  century,  or  earlier. The  cookery  of 

our  ancestors  is  not  to  be  boasted  of ;  but  in  improvement, 
if  France  took  the  lead,  England  has  followed. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Beasts  of  cbase,  or  fowl,  or  game, 
In  pastiy  built.  Milton. 

Chimeras  from  the  poet^s  fancy  flow  ; 

The  cook  contrives  his  shapes  in  real  douglu  King. 

PASTRY,  PIES,  PASTIES,  PATTIES,  PUDDINGS,  &C. 

That  grand  movement  in  cookery,  to  which  the  experi- 
ments  of  the  St.  Ronan's  Club  have  contributed  not  a 
little,  has  iu  some  things  produced  almost  an  entire  revo- 
lution. This  mighty  change  is  peculiarly  visible  in  pastry. 
We  have  already,  and  repeatedly,  spoken  of  the  tendency 
of  the  age,  to  simplicity ,''elegance,  and  true  refinement, 
both  in  the  preparation  of  all  sorts  of  dishes,  and  in  table 
embellishments.  Careme,  a  great  cook,  is  great,  indeed,  as 
a  pastry  cook.  Indeed  he  more  excels  in  the  entremets  than 
the  entrees.  He  might  have  peppered  a  cream-tart  to 
Haroun  Alraschid,  though  he  might  not  have  hit  the  taste 
of  George  III.  in  that  monarch's  plain  chervil-seasoned 
vermicelli  soup ;  nor  that  of  his  more  luxurious  son  in 
turtle  or  punch.  French  pastry-cooks  have  nearly  as 
many  kinds  of  paste  for  their  several  entremets^  as  the 
meat-cooks  have  sauces  for  their  entrees.    They  have  their 

and  other  delicacies  are  cooked.  Prepare  heef  as  at  Nos.  59,  60, 
256,  hut  sahstitute  Madeira  or  sherry  for  water.  The  pot  must  be 
carefully  closed  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  precious  steams :  or  the 
Sughlio  may  be  prepared  as  well  by  placing  the  meat  and  wine  in  a  jar, 
set  in  boiling  water,  or  iu  an  oven.  Season  with  mace,  cloves,  ginger, 
and  what  other  seasonings  are  appropriate  to  the  thing  to  be  afterwards 
cooked  in  this  rich  cuUis.  Onions,  garlic,  mushrooms,  and  celery  are 
the  suitable  vegetables,  with  aromatic  herbs.  The  meat  from  which 
the  gravy  is  drawn  need  not  be  cut,  and  should  not  be  overdone,  as  it 
will  of  itself  afford  a  luxurious  dish,  and  after  being  sauced  will  allow 
sufficient  juices  or  gravy  to  remain  to  cook  any  thing  wished  in  Sughlio. 

2  F   "     ' 


4.50  CHAP.  IV. — ^PASTBT,  PIES,  &C. 

pafF-psste,  and  half  puff-paste,  their  beef-suet,  and  veal- 
suet  paste,  and  their  paste  of  Sain-doux,  —  a  particular 
paste  for  cold  and  hot  pies,  for  timbales,  and  for  tarts, — 
their  Brioche  paste,  and  Nouille  paste,  and  an  endless 
variety  more,  which  are  made  into  cakes  by  mixing  with  the 
paste  chopped  filberts,  pistachios,  almonds,  and  any  kind 
of  cheese.  The  Pat^  Borate  we  have  given  No.  712.  The 
French,  however,  are  not  such  architects  in  pastry  as  they 
once  were.  Instead  of  immense  castles,  bridges,  and  cathe- 
drals, they  now  content  themselves  with  villas  and  cottages 
ornees.  For  some  complicated  and  formidable  jpt^ce  montScy 
trembling  to  its  base,  they  now  present  us  with  pyramids 
of  tasteful  little  t»/-a2/-9en;^,  buissonsy  t.  e.,  bushes, — of  tart- 
lets, Dauphines^  and  Petites  BoucMes  of  pastry :  perhaps, 
through  time  they  may  discard  many  of  their  imitation  or 
mock  entremetSy  called  en  surprizBy  doubtless  from  the 
astonishment  created  at  table,  when  it  is  discovered  that 
the  full-plumaged  swan,  the  boar's  head,  the  haunch 
of  mutton,  or  shoulder  of  lamb,  are  only  sponge-cakes 
moulded  into  such  preposterous  forms :  and  that  the  mush- 
rooms, &c.  &c.,  with  which  they  are  garnished  are  but 
meringiied  sugar.  Conceive  a  dried  tongue,  or  mutton 
cutlet,  of  Savpy  cake ! 

770.   TO  MAKE  DIFFERENT  PASTES. 

For  paste,  a  marble  slab,  or  very  smooth  fine-grained 
stone  is  best :  some  use  a  large  slate :  every  thing  should 
be  nicely  clean,  and  the  temperature  rather  cool,  especially 
for  pufF-paste,  as  the  butter  if  soft  spoils  the  work.  It 
may  be  iced  in  warm  weather.  Let  a  young,  clever  cook- 
maid  see  paste  actually  made,  though  but  once,  and  she 
will  understand  all  our  receipts. 

771.  The  state  of  the  oven  should  be  particularly 
attended  to.  Almost  every  oven  has  a  temperament  of  its 
own ;  and .  it  should  never  be  forgotten,  that  from  tlie 
intense  degree  of  heat,  and  the  circumstance  of  the  meat 
being  cut  down  into  small  pieces,  the  process  of  baking  is 
more  rapid  than  either  roasting  or  stewing,  and  in  this 
approaches  frying.  Puff-paste  requires  a  rather  quick 
oven  to  make  it  rise  light.  Raised  pie  paMe  must  have 
ft  ^uick  oven ;  and  paste  glazed  must  have  a  slack  oven, 


r — 


PUFF-PASTB.  451 

that  the  icing,  if  put  on  at  first,  be  not  scorched  before  the 
fruit  is  sufficiently  baked.  A  few  general  plain  directions 
may  be  given ;  but  if  practice  and  observation  are  essential 
to  the  proper  preparation  of  plain  pie-crust,  much  more  are 
they  to  the  finer  pastes,  and  the  management  of  an  oven. 
All  pies  to  be  eaten  cold  must  be  more  highly  seasoned  than 
hot  ones.  Fine  crust  for  fruit  should  have  a  little  sugar, 
and  some  sorts,  lemon  grate  or  juice — must  not  be  handled 
much,  and  should  be  made  in  a  room  of  cool  temperature. 
Have  a  feather-brush  to  wipe  off  superfluous  flour.  Pastry- 
cutters  and  stamps  of  all  kinds  are  bought  in  the  shops. 
Ornaments  of  paste-foliage  upon  the  edges  of  dressed 
dishes,  upon  dressed  hams,  &c.,  are  often  appropriate.  To 
Ice,  see  No.  1005. 

771.*  To  make  Puff-pcMe,  —  Have  the  best  flour  sifted, 
fresh,  and  free  of  damp.  Take  half  its  weight,  or  rather 
more,  of  fresh,  or  well-washed  salt  butter.  Crumble  a  thiid 
part  of  the  butter  among  the  flour,  and  mixing  it  well  and 
gradually,  make  it  into  dough  with  a  proper  quantity 
of  water.  Throw  dry  flour  on  the  table  or  slab  to  pre- 
vent it  from  sticking,  and  work  it  up  quickly  to  a  stiff 
paste  by  kneading  it  beneath  your  hands.  Roll  out  the 
paste  till  it  is  smoothly  kneaded,  which  will  be  known 
by  pressing  it  between  the  finger  and  thumb.  Always 
roll  from  you,  and  not  back.  Divide  what  remains  of  the 
butter  into  four  parts.  Take  the  first,  break  it  into  bits, 
and  stick  it  equally  over  the  paste.  Strew  a  little  flour 
lightly  on  the  butter,  and  clap  it  down  to  make  it  stick ; 
fold  up  the  paste  in  three,  roll  it  out,  and  repeat  the  process 
till  all  the  butter  is  used.  The  sooner  puff-paste  is  baked 
after  it  is  made  the  lighter  it  looks,  from  the  folds  rising 
distinctly.  Till  it  is  to  be  used,  lay  the  folds  of  a  wet  cloth 
over  it.  It  should  rather  be  too  soft  than  too  dry  ;  but  if 
too  soft  from  heat,  put  it  in  a  vessel  plunged  in  cold  water 
or  ice.  French  cooks  give  this  paste  {feuUUtage)  five  turns, 
or  more,  to  make  it  rise  lightly  into  many  leaves.  This 
paste,  when  for  lool-atk-vefniB,  i^ould  get  six  turns  and  a 
half;  that  is,  six  turns,  and  be  then  doubled  up.  The 
more  turns  the  more  butter  is  required.      The  oven,  if 


452  CHAP.  IV. — ^PASTRY,  PIES,  &C. 

possible,  should  not  be  opened  till  pufF-paste,  or  paU-royale 
is  baked ;  for  draughts  of  eold  air  always  flatten  paste. 

French  Puff-Paste  of  Beef  Suet.  —  Prepare,  as  else- 
where directed,  and  pound  good  dry  suet  in  a  mortar,  with 
a  spoonful  of  olive  oil,  to  which  more  and  more  is 
gradually  added  till  the  suet  becomes  like  butter.  Use  it 
exactly  as  butter.  Lard  also  may  be  employed,  using  half 
lard  and  half  beef  suet.  It  makes  excellent  paste  if  to  be 
eaten  hot«     Cold  paste  eats  best  when  made  of  butter  only. 

French  Puff-Paete  of  Lard.  —  To  twelve  ounces  of 
flour  take  two  of  lard,  and  tw^o  yolks  of  eggs,  with  a  little 
salt.  Work  the  paste,  and  let  it  rest  a  few  minutes,  then 
roll  it  out  as  puff-paste,  and  cover  it  lightly  with  lard, 
(about  the  consistence  of  soft  pomatum,)  with  a  paste 
brush.  Fold  it  in  three  layers,  and  roll  it.  Let  it  rest  a 
few  more  minutes  and  brush  again  with  lard,  and  proceed 
thus  until  twelve  ounces  of  lard  have  been  used  with  six- 
teen of  flour.  This  receipt  is  useful  where  butter  is  either 
dear  or  not  to  be  had  from  heat  of  climate. — Ohs.  An  excellent 
light  crust  is  made  of  the  fresh  leaf  of  a  fat  pig,  by  clear- 
ing it  of  skin  and  fibres,  and,  having  well  washed  it,  incor- 
porating it  with  flour  and  making  a  paste. 


French  Paste  for  Hot  Pies. — To  thirteen  ounces  of  flour 
put,  in  the  usual  manner,  (in  a  well  or  fountain,)  six 
ounces  of  butter,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  half  tea-cup  of  water.  Work  it  up,  rubbing 
between  the  hands. 

772.  Savoury  pies,  made  of  fresh  materials,  properly 
seasoned,  and  not  overdone  —  their  besetting  fault  —  are, 
whether  hot  or  cold,  very  generally  liked.  They  are  eco- 
nomical, since  a  good  pie  may  be  made  of  a  small  piece 
of  meat  that  would  neither  stew,  roast,  nor  boil,  so  as  to 
make  a  handsome  dish ;  and  they  are  convenient  at  table, 
since  they  may  be  divided  and  subdivided  to  any  length, 
with  little  trouble  to  the  carver.  Pies  can  be  made  of 
cJmost  every  thing,  and  they  eat  better  cold  than  meat 
dressed  in  any  other  way.  A  solid  pie  b  a  larder  in  itself, 
and  is  as  useful  on  the  moors  or  at  sea  as  in  country  situa- 


PASTE  FOB  PIBS.  453 

tions,  whei*e  families  are  liable  to  the  incursions  of  voracious 
chance  visiters.  All  pie-meat  should  be  boned.  To 
bone  meat  for  pies  is  as  requisite  as  to  fillet  fish. 

772.'  Cheap  Crust  for  Raised  Meat^pies, — Boil  an  ounce 
of  lard,  and  rather  more  of  fresh  dripping  or  butter,  in 
about  a  pint  of  water,  and  make  the  paste  of  this.  Knead 
it  strongly,  and  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin.  Let  it 
stand  to  cool,  and  then  raise  the  pie  ;  or  cut  out  pieces 
for  the  top  and  bottom,  and  a  long  piece  for  the  sides ; 
cement  the  bottom  to  the  sides  with  e^^  bringing  the 
bottom  piece  beyond  the  sides,  and  pinching  both 
together  to  make  them  join  closely.  Fill  up  the 
pie.  Put  on  the  top,  and  pinch  it  again  close  to  the 
sides.  Small  raised  pies  may  be  made  by  lining  a  tin 
shape  with  a  sliding  bottom  with  paste  on  the  bottom 
and  sides,  and  putting  on  a  top.  Practice  is  necessary  to 
make  a  raised  pie.^ 

773.  Common  Paste  for  Savoury  Pies. — To  two  pounds 
of  good  flour  take  six  ounces  of  butter ;  break  it  down 
among  the  flour,  and  mix  it  with  a  couple  of  beat  eggs 
and  a  pint  of  hot  water.  Knead  it  smooth,  and  roll  out 
and  double  it  three  or  four  times.  Cold  paste  is  made  as 
above,  only  use  cold  water. 

774.  Rich  Paste  of  Beef  suet  for  Common  Meat-pies."-^ 
Cut  the  suet  in  bits,  and  melt  it  in  water.  Strain  it 
into  fresh  water,  and  when  cold,  press  out  the  water,  and 
pound  it  in.  a  mortar  with  a  little  oil,  till  it  come  to  the 
consistence  of  butter.  Use  this  for  making  pie-crust,  half 
a  pound  to  a  pound  of  flour. — See  Glarijied  Suet,  No.  44. 

776.  Common  Tart-paste.  —  Make  as  No.  773,  only 
use  a  little  more  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  if 
requisite. 

776.  Short  Crust  for  preserved  Sweets. — To  a  pound  of 
the  finest  flour  put  a  half-pound  of  fresh  butter,  the 
beat  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  three  ounces  of  fine  sifted 
loaf-sugar.  Mix  this  up  with  hot  milk,  knead  it  lightly, 
but  smoothly,  and  ice  the  paste  when  ready.  Cream  may  be 
used,  And  more  butter. — Obs.  The  more  finely  the  butter  is 

*  Cooks  also  use  strong  pasteboard  rims  or  moulds  for  fortifying  the 
walls  of  raised  pies.    The  thing  must  be  seen.    We  cannot  describe  it. 


454  CHAP.  TV, — PASTRr,  PIES,  &c. 

cmmbled  down  among  ttie  floar,  the  shorter  will  the  crast 
•at.  Those  who  dislike  sweet  cruet  may  either  entirely 
omit  or  use  only  half  the  quantity  of  sugar.  The  abore 
paste  is  generally  employed  to  line  tart  pans.  This  paste 
may  be  perfumed  by  tincturing  it  with  rose  or  orange- 
flower  water,  —  almond-paste  will  enrich  it.  It  may, 
where  suitable,  be  flavoured  with  lemon-juice.  In  this 
department,  like  every  other,  much  is  left  to  the  taste  and 
discretion  of  the  cook. 

777.  Venison-Pasty  Crust.  —  Make  a  paste  in  the  pro- 
portion of  two  pounds  of  flour  to  twenty  ounces  of  butter, 
with  flix  beat  eggs  and  hot  water.  Roll  it  out  three 
times,  doable  it,  and  the  last  time  let  the  part  intended 
fo^  the  top-crust  remain  pretty  thick.  This  paste  is  also 
adapted  to  line  timbales. 

77.8.  Rice-paste  for  Savoury  Pies. — Clean  and  simmer 
the  rice  in  milk  and  water  till  it  swell.  Cover  veal,  lamb, 
chicken,  or  game  pies,  equally  with  a  layer  of  this,  using 
beat  e^  to  make  it  adhere,  and  glaze  it. 

779.  Fine  Crust  for  Cheesecakes^  or  delicate  preserved 
Fruits.  —  Sift  a  pound  of  the  best  flour,  well  dried,  and 
mix  it  well  with  two  ounces  of  flnely  sifted  sugar.  Beat 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  to  a  cream  by  working  it 
cold  with  a  spoon  or  knife.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar 
yery  gradually  with  this,  and  work  into  it  the  well-beat 
whites  of  three  eggs.  If  the  paste  is  not  stifle  enough  to 
roll  out,  put  more  flour  and  sugar  to  it. — See  Raste-Bqyaly 
Brioche  Paste,  and  Honsehold  Bread. 

SAVOURY  PIES  OP  MEAT,  &0. 

780.  To  make  a  Beef  Steak  Pie. — Any  tender  and  well 
mixed  piece  of  beef  will  answer  for  a  pie,  though  the 
rump  is  best.  Cut  four  pounds  into  handsome  small 
steaks  i  flatten  and  season  highly  with  mixed  spices ; 
place  fat  and  lean  pieces  together,  and  either  roll  them  up 
as  olives,  or  place  them  neatly  in  the  dish,  rising  as  all  pies 
should  do  in  the  middle.  Put  in  either  a  half- pint  of  gravy 
or  the  same  quantity  of  water.  A  few  small  half-cooked 
onions  may  be  added. — Ohs.  Cut  pickles,  a  little  catsup,  or 
other  seasonings,  may  be  put  to  the  pie,  and  either  force- 


SAV0UR7  PIES  OF  HEAT.  455 

meat  balls  or  a  layer  of  forcemeat  above  and  below  the  beef. 
Some  prefer  a  few  oysters.  Make  a  paste  of  one  and  a 
half  pound  of  flour,  and  one  pound  of  butter,  or  use  No. 
774.  Lay  a  strip  of  crust  round  the  edge  of  the  dish, 
and  then  cover  and  ornament  it.  A  TVipe  Pie  is  some- 
times made,  laying  ham  or  beef  steaks  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish,  and  filling  it  up  with  tripe  prepared  as  if  for 
Fricassee^  seasoning  highly,  and  covering  with  paste.  It 
is  a  nonsense  pie. 

781.  Plain  Veal  Pie, — Cut  small  cutlets  from  the  back- 
ribs  or  breast.  Trim  off  the  bones,  and  season  the  chops 
highly  with  mixed  spices  and  such  minced  herbs  as  you 
choose  ;  add  a  glass  of  water  or  a  little  gravy  dravtni  from 
the  trimmings,  and  cover  the  pie. — Obs,  A  slice  of  dressed 
bacon  is  an  improvement.  Uncooked  bacon,  if  used,  would, 
from  saltpetre  in  it,  make  the  veal  red  and  ugly-looking ; 
else  uncooked  were  better. 

782.  A  richer  Veal  Pie. — Proceed  as  above,  but  add  a 
few  slices  of  lean  dressed  bacon,  forcemeat-balls,  and  boiled 
yolks  of  eggs ;  or  a  scalded  sweetbread  cut  into  bits,  and 
truffles,  morells,or  mushrooms,  as  is  convenient  or  approved. 
When  baked,  pour  some  well-seasoned  hot  gravy  into  the 
pie  by  removing  the  top  ornament.    Then  replace  it. 

783.  A  very  rich  Veal  Pie. — Cut  steaks  from  the  breast 
or  fillet.  Season  them  with  white  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and 
cloves  pounded,  lemon-grate,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg.  Cut 
down  and  season,  as  above,  two  sweetbreads  or  a  veal- 
kidney,  first  well  soaked.  Lay  an  edging  of  paste  round  the 
ledge  of  the  pie-dish,  and  fill  it.  Put  cut  hard-boiled  yolks 
of  eggs  or  the  cut  sweetbreads,  and  either  some  mushrooms 
or  oysters  over  the  meat.  Strew  in  more  mixed  seasonings, 
and  place  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  ham  over  the  whole. 
Put  in  a  half-pint  of  water  or  gravy,  and  cover  the  dish. 
When  ready,  remove  the  top  ornament,  and  pour  in  through 
a  funnel  a  large  glassful  of  good  veal-gravy,  quite  hot,  and 
thickened  with  flour  and  cream ;  replace  the  top.  Cold 
vealy  bee/y  or  mutton,  may  be  re-dressed,  seasoning  highly, 
as  pie,  or  as  potato-pasty. 

784.  Veal  Olive  Pie. — Cut  long  slices  from  the  fillet, 
and  flatten  and  season  them.  Having  first  brushed  them 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  roll  them  up  neatly  as  olives- 


1 


456  CHAP.  IV. — ^PASTRY,  PIES,  &C. 

place  them  in  the  dish,  making  the  middle  part  highest, 
as  is  proper  in  all  pies.  Add  a  glass  of  water,  and  cover 
the  dish ;  or  add  good  gravy,  thickened  with  cream  and 
flour.  A  little  forcemeat  spread  on  each  olive,  before 
rolling  up,  will  be  an  improvement. 

786.  Rich  Veal  Olive  Pie^  Scottish. — Make  a  forcemeat 
of  minced  veal  and  a  little  suet  or  veal-kidney,  a  few 
bread-crumbs,  some  finely-chopped  parsley,  lemon-grate, 
salt,  and  mixed  spices.  Work  up  the  forcemeat  with  the 
yolks  of  two  egrgs,  and  place  a  little  of  it  in  the  middle  of 
each  slice  of  the  meat  cut  for  olives.  Let  the  olives  be 
previously  flattened  and  seasoned.  Roll  them  neatly  up, 
and  fill  up  the  pie-dish.  Make  a  dozen  or  more  small  force- 
meat balls,  round  and  oval,  of  the  remaining  forcemeat, 
and  lay  them  in  the  dish,  with  the  yolks  of  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs  divided,  two  small  pickled  cucumbers  cut  in 
round  and  oblong  slices,  and  a  few  pickled  mushrooms. 
Make  a  gravy  of  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  veal,  seasoning 
it  with  parsley  and  onion.  Thicken  and  strain  this  gravy, 
and  put  to  it  a  glass  of  w^hite  wine  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Pour  this  into  the  pie,  and  cover  it  with  a  good 
puff-paste. 

786.  Calf  8  Head  Pie^  to  eat  cold. — Scald  and  soak  the 
head,  and  simmer  it  for  a  half-hour  in  a  very  little  water, 
with  a  large  knuckle  of  veal,  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  two 
onions,  a  fagot  of  parsley  and  winter  savory,  a  few  white 
peppercorns,  and  two  or  three  blades  of  mace.  Take  up 
the  head,  and,  when  cold,  cut  it  into  bits  of  different  forms, 
as  directed  at  No.  460.  Peel  and  cut  the  tongue  into 
square  pieces.  Boil  the  broth  in  which  the  head  was  sim- 
mered with  a  few  chips  of  isinglass  till  it  is  reduced  to  a 
strong  jelly-gravy.  Put  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  lean  ham 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish ;  then  some  of  the  head  and 
tongue,  mixing  fat  and  lean,  and  forcemeat  balls  made  of 
the  knuckle ;  add  hard  yolks  of  eggs  cut  in  two.  Strew 
above  each  separate  layer  a  seasoning  of  white  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  lemon-grate.  Fill  up  the  dish  with  the  jelly- 
gravy  ;  cover  with  pufF-paste  ornamented ;  bake  the  pie. 
— Obs.  This  pie  will  keep  cold  for  a  fortnight,  and  slices 
of  it,  garnished,  make  a  nice  supper-dish,  from  the  variety 
of  colours  and  forms. 


A  BRIBERS  PIS.  457 

787.  Calf  8  Foot  Pie.  —  Clean  and  boU  two  feet  till 
tender,  but  not  slobbery.  Mince  the  meat,  when  cold, 
with  suet  and  pared  apples,  in  the  proportion  of  a  third- 
part  apples  and  suet.  Mix  cleaned  currants,  sugar  to 
taste,  and  a  quarter-pint  of  white  or  rabin-wine  with  the 
mince.  Cover  the  dish  with  rich  puff-paste.  A  half-hour 
or  little  more  will  bake  this  delicate  Scottish  pie. 

788.  A  Bride's  Pie, — a  Scottish  Pie,  —  This  is  just  a 
very  nice  mince -pie.  Chop  the  meat  of  two  calves'  feet, 
boiled  as  in  the  former  receipt,  a  pound  of  mutton-suet, 
and  a  pound  of  pared  apples,  separately^  till  they  are 
finew  Mix  them,  and  add  to  them  a  half-pound  of  picked 
and  rubbed  currants,  and  the  same  quantity  of  raisins 
stoned  and  chopped.  Season  with  a  quarter-ounce  of  cin- 
namon in  powder,  two  drachms  of  grated  nutmeg  and 
pounded  mace,  an  ounce  of  candied  citron,  and  double  the 
quantity  of  lemon-peel,  both  sliced  thin,  a  glass  of  brandy, 
and  another  of  Madeira.  Line  a  tin  pan,  which  has  a  slip- 
bottom,  with  puff- paste,  and  put  the  minced  meat,  &c. 
into  it.  Roll  out  a  cover  for  the  pie,  which  usually  has 
a  glass  or  a  gold  ring  concealed  somewhere  in  the  crust,  and 
should  be  embellished  with  appropriate  ornaments  and 
devices,  as  Cupids,  turtles,  torches,  flames,  darts,  and  other 
emblematic  devices  of  this  kind. 

789.  A  Mutton  Pie. — Cut  two  or  three  pounds  of  the 
back-ribs  or  loin  into  handsome  chops ;  chop  off  the  bone, 
flatten  and  season  the  chops  with  pepper  and  salt.  Place 
them  neatly  in  the  dish ;  put  in  a  glassful  of  gravy  or  water, 
and  strew  parsley  and  a  minced  onion  over  the  meat,  and, 
with  a  paste  of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  half-pound  of 
butter,  cover  it.*  Less  paste  will  do  for  this  pie,  and  of  a 
cheaper  kind. — Obs.  Mutton  or  veal  pie  may  be  sear 
soned  with  cume-powder.  Mutton  or  veal  may  be  made 
into  small  raised  pies  of  an  oval,  or  other  shape,  and  re- 
warmed  in  a  Dutch  oven  when  wanted  for  hot  suppers  or 
luncheon.  A  Squab  Pie  is  made  of  mutton  chops,  cut 
apples,  and  shred  onions,  with  spices  and  a  little  sugar. 
Nearly  obsolete. 

*  A  corresponding  member  of  the  Club  recommends  Sauce  Robert 
for  mutton-pie,  made  without  lemon-juice. 


458  CUAP.  IV. PASTRY,  PIES,  &C. 

790.  Lamh  Pie, — This  is  made  of  either  the  loin,  back- 
ribs,  or  breast,  not  toofaty  cutting  out  the  bone  if  wished, 
but  always  leaving  the  gristles.  Do  not  season  this  deli- 
cate meat  over  highly.  Put  a  little  jelly-gravy  in  the 
dish  if  *the  pie  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  in  which  state  a  lamb- 
pie  is  exceedingly  good.  Hard-boiled  eggs  may  be  added. 
Use  puff-paste. 

791.  Pigeon  Pie, — Clean  and  season  the  pigeons  well  in 
the  inside  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  each  bird  a 
little  chopped  parsley  mixed  with  the  livers  parboiled  and 
minced,  and  some  bits  of  butter.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  either  with  a  beef-steak,  a  few  cutlets  of  veal,  or 
slices  of  dressed  bacon.  Lay  in  the  birds ;  put  the  sea- 
soned gizzards,  and,  if  approved,  a  few  hard-boiled  yolks 
of  eggs  into  the  dish.  A  thin  slice  of  lean  cooked  ham  laid 
on  the  breast  of  each  bird  is  an  improvement  to  the  fla- 
vour. Cover  the  pie  with  puff-paste,  first  laying  a  border 
of  paste  round  the  rim.  A  half-hour  will  bake  it  if  small. 
— Obs,  It  is  common  to  stick  two  or  three  feet  of  pigeons 
or  moorfowl  into  the  centre  of  the  cover  of  pies  as  a  label 
to  the  contents,  though  we  confess  we  see  little  use  and  no 
beauty  in  the  practice. — Forcemeat  balls  may  be  added  to 
enrich  the  pie ;  and  a  few  chopped  mushrooms  are  with  us 
a  favourite  addition.  Some  cooks  lay  the  steaks  above 
the  birds,  which  is  sensible,  if  not  seemly. 

792.  Pies  op  Game. — Grouse  or  Moorfowl  Pie. — If  the 
birds  are  small,  keep  them  whole  ;  if  large,  divide  or 
quarter  them.  Season  them  highly,  and  put  plenty  of 
butter  into  the  dish  above  and  below  them  ;  or  put  a  beef- 
steak into  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Cover  it  with  good 
puff-paste,  and  take  care  not  to  bake  the  pie  too  much. 
A  half-pint  of  a  hot  sauce  made  of  melted  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  claret,  and  poured  into 
the  pie  when  to  be  served  hot,  is  an  improvement,  and 
does  not  overpower  the  native  flavour  of  the  game. — 
Woodcocks  and  snipes,  when  very  plentiful,  are  sometimes 
made  into  pies.  Clean  the  intestines,  which  are  so  highly 
prized.  Parboil  and  pound  them  with  seasonings,  scraped 
lard,  chopped  herbs,  and  truffles.  Stuff  the  birds  with  this 
forcemeat. 


PIES  OV  GAME.  450 

793.  A  Hare  Pie. — Cut  up  the  good  parts  of  a  hare ; 
season  and  put  them  in  a  pie- dish  with  plenty  of  butter  ; 
or  if  to  be  very  rich,  forcemeat-balls  and  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  If  to  eat  cold,  which  this  pie  does  very 
well,  fill  the  dish  with  a  gravy  when  the  top  is  taken  oSty 
which  will  jelly  when  cooled. 

794.  Chicken  Pie, — Skin  and  cut  up,  as  for  helping  at 
table,  as  many  young  fowls  as  the  size  of  your  pie  requires. 
Season  the  joints  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mace 
and  nutmeg,  all  in  fine  powder.  Put  the  pieces  into  the 
pie-dish,  with  thin  slices  of  fresh  ham,  or  veal-chops,  or 
veal-udder.  Forcemeat-balls,  layers  of  forcemeat,  and 
yolks  of  hard  eggs,  may  be  added  at  pleasure.  Make  a 
good  gravy  of  knuckle  or  scrag  of  veal  or  of  mutton, 
seasoning  it  with  white  peppercorns,  onions,  and  parsley. 
Strain  this  gravy,  which  must  be  boiled  to  a  jelly,  and 
put  it  to  the  pie.  Cover  with  a  rich  ornamented  puff- 
paste  ;  and  bake  the  pie,  if  large,  for  an  hour  and  a  quar- 
ter, coveiing  it  with  paper,  or  a  tin  dish  cover,  lest  the 
paste  be  scorched  or  over-done. — Obs,  The  chickens  may 
be  stuffed,  if  small,  and  laid  on  forcemeat.  It  may  be 
m&de  flat  like  a  taurte^  in  the  French  style.  This  pie,  and 
all  pies,  may  be  made  plainer  at  the  discretion  of  the  cook. 
It  is  the  favourite  pie  of  France  and  England,  next  to  a 
game  pie,  and  is  as  good  cold  as  hot.  If  to  eat  cold,  bone 
the  chicken,  and  place  alternate  layers  of  chicken  and 
forcemeat. 

795.  Giblet  Pie. — Clean  and  stew  the  giblets  in  broth, 
with  peppercorns,  onions,  and  parsley.  When  tender, 
take  them  up,  and  when  cold,  cut  them  in  neat  pieces. 
Lay  a  beef -steak  in  the  bottom  of  a  small  pie-dish,  or  a 
layer  of  forcemeat  made  of  seasonings,  minced  veal  or  beef, 
and  a  little  ham.  Put  in  the  cut  giblets,  and  strew  in 
shred  onion.  Strain  the  liquor  over  them  in  which  they 
were  stewed,  and  place  a  few  boiled  potatoes  sliced  above 
alL  Cover  with  a  common  crust,  or  for  a  plain  dish  with 
mashed  potatoes. — Obs,  A  giblet  pie  is  sometimes  made 
with  a  pudding  in  it,  composed  of  the  blood  of  the  goose 
or  ducks  strained,  a  little  boiled  rice,  suet  and  onion  shred 
;fine,  with  pepper  and  salt.     Keep  tlie  skin  of  the  neck  of 


400  CHAP.  IT. — FASTRY,  FIBS,  &C. 

the  gooee,  and  staff  it  with  this.  Close  the  pudding  at 
both  ends,  torn  it  round,  and  place  it  in  the  centre  of  the 
pie. 

796.  Rabbit  or  life  Pie, — This  may  be  made  as  directed 
for  chicken-pie ;  or  more  plainly  as  giblet-pie,  making  a 
forcemeat  of  the  livers  parboiled,  chopped  parsley,  and 
anchovies,  or  eschalot,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  butter  or 
shred  suet.  A  few  thin  slices  or  gobbets  of  well  flavoured 
bacon  will  greatly  improve  a  rabbit-pie.  It  is  now  some- 
times called  a  Fife-pie,  in  honour  of  the  Thane,  we 
presume. — Ohs.  Rabbit-pie  msLy  be  made  with  onion-sauce  ; 
but  first  parboil  the  onions  to  take  off  the  excess  of  their 
flavour. 

797.  Partridge-Pie, — ^Clean  and  truss  four,  or,  if  large, 
three  partridges,  cutting  off  the  legs  at  the  second  joint. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley.*  Place 
veal  and  ham  forcemeat,  or  sausage  meat,  or  slices  of  veal 
and  ham,  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  put  in  the  par- 
tridges, with  a  good  many  bits  of  butter  stuck  about  them, 
and  either  a  few  scalded  button-mushrooms  or  a  glassful 
of  mushroom  catsup.  Cover  the  ledge  of  the  dish  with 
strips  of  puff  paste,  and  then  put  on  the  cover.  About  an 
hour  will  bake  this  pie. 

798.  A  Goose  Pie. — Tliis  is  generally  made  in  a  raised 
crust.  For  a  common  pie,  quarter,  or  cut  the  goose  into 
eight  pieces ;  season,  and  bake  it  with  plenty  of  butter. 
Two  green  geese  will  make  a  still  better  pie.  They  may 
be  baked  with  either  a  plain  paste,  as  potato-pasty,  or 
with  mashed  potatoes  laid  over  the  baking-dish,  and 
neatly  marked.     Tliey  may  be  previously  braised. 

799.  An  English  Christmas  Goose  Pie.f — ^Bone  and 

*  French  cooks  chop  the  livers  with  parsley,  and  stuff  with  this. 
They  also  barde  the  birds  with  seasoned  lard. .  Partridges  done  thus 
make  an  admirable  cold  pie  in  a  raised  crust. 

't'  This  receipt  still  keeps  its  place  in  cookery  books,  though  the  pie 
itself  is  now  comparatively  as  rare  as  the  capercailzie  or  the  wild  boar. 
Still  in  the  north  of  England  one  hears  of  the  wains  groaning,  about 
Christmas-tide,  under  the  load  of  these  enormous  pies.  At  sucn  times 
the  hostess  of  a  well-frequented  inn,  of  the  old  school,  will  construct  a 
pie  of  circumference  rivalling  her  own  ;  and  the  county  newspaper  will 
record  its  dimensions.  But  Yorkshire  Pie  is  a  mere  joke  to  those  with 
which  a  German  baron  or  Italian  noble  was  wont  to  regale  his  vassabk 


PERIOORD  PIE.  461 

season  highly  a  goose  and  a  large  fowl.  Stuff  the  latter 
with  forcemeat  made  of  minced  tongue  or  ham,  veal, 
parsley,  suet,  pepper,  and  salt,  with  two  eggs,  or  No.  516. 
Stew  them  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  little  good  stock  in  a 
close  stew-pan.  Put  the  fowl  within  the  goose,  and 
place  that  in  a  raised  pie-crust,  filling  up  the  vacancies 
with  forcemeat,  or  slices  of  parboiled  tongue  or  pigeons, 
partridges,  &c.  Put  plenty  of  butter  over  the  meat. 
This  pie  will  take  three  hours  to  bake.  It  will  eat  well 
cold,  and  keep  a  long  while. 

800.  Pefigord  Pie,  —  This  is  a  dish  which  can  scarcely 
be  ever  prepared  in  this  country,  where  truffles  are  scarce, 
and  very  inferior  to  those  of  France.  The  Perigord-pie 
is,  however,  so  celebrated,  that  it  would  be  unpardonable 
to  treat  it  with  neglect.  Truss  as  for  boiling  six  par- 
tridges. Singe  and  wipe  them.  Season  them  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  mixed  spices,  minced  parsley,  and  young 
onions,  and  lard  them.  Brush,  wash,  and  peel  two  pounds 
of  truffles.  Hash  the  small  and  broken  ones ;  and  pound 
them  with  the  livers  of  the  partridges  and  a  fat  goose- 
liver,  or  fat  livers  of  poultry,  or  a  piece  of  veal-udder  par- 
boiled. Mince  all  these  things,  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar,  adding  raw  e^^,  as  directed  for  quenelles^  Nos.  602, 
695.  Season  this  forcemeat  very  highly.  Cut  open  the 
trussed  partridges  at  the  back,  and  stuff  each  of  them  with 
the  forcemeat,  and  some  whole  truffles.  Bake  them  in  a 
raised  pie-crust,  either  of  a  round  or  oval  shape ;  first 
lining  the  crust  with  slices  of  bacon  and  forcemeat.  Game- 
pies  of  the  richest  description,  with  truffles,  &c.  are  now 
regularly  imported  to  London,  where  every  thing  may  be 
had  for  money. 

801.  Venison-pasty, — ^A  modem  pasty  is  made  of  what 
does  not  roast  well,  as  the  neck,  the  breast,  the  shoulder. 
The  breast  makes  a  good  pasty.  Cut  it  into  little  chops, 
trimming  off  all  bone  and  skins.     Make  some  good  gravy 

A  bullock  the  outwork, — containing  a  deer,  which  contained  poultry  or 
game,  which  contained  ortolans  and  quails,  which  contained  oysters 
and  craw-fish  ;  and  all  boned  and  seasoned.  How  magnificent  a  Pif^ 
de  resistance  I  Such  was  the  cookery  of  the  feudal  age. — A  Christmas 
pie  of  tremendous  dimensions  broke  down  in  1832  when  going  from 
ShefiSeld  as  a  tribute  to  Lord  Chancellor  Brougham. 


•162  CHAP.  IT, — PASTRY,  PIES^  &C. 

from  the  bones  and  other  trimmings.  Place  fat  and  lean 
pieces  of  the  meat  together  ;  or,  if  very  lean,  place  thin 
slices  from  the  firm  fat  of  a  leg  or  a  neck  of  mntton  along 
with  each  piece.  Season  the  meat  with  pepper,  salt^ 
pounded  mace,  and  allspice.  Place  it  handsomely  in  a 
dish,  and  put  in  the  drawn  gravy,  a  quarter-pint  of  claret 
or  port,  a  glassful  of  eschalot-vinegar,  and,  if  liked,  a 
couple  of  onions  very  finely  shred.  Cover  the  dish  with 
a  thick  crust.  No,  777.  — (See  pages  112,  142,  344.) 
—  Obs,  This  is  a  dish  in  which  ornament  is  not  only 
allowable,  but  is  actually  expected.  The  paste  decorations 
are,  however,  matters  of  fancy.  Before  the  pasty  is  served, 
if  the  meat  be  lean,  more  sauce  made  of  a  little  red  wine, 
gravy,  mixed  spices,  and  thew  juice  of  a  lemon,  may  be  put 
in  hot.  A  common  fault  of  venison-pasty  is  being  over- 
done. An  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven  is  fully 
sufficient  for  baking  an  ordinary-sized  pasty ;  an  hour 
%vill  do  for  a  small  one.  Some  cooks  marinade  the  meat 
in  the  wine  and  other  seasonings  for  a  night,  or  for  some 
hours  previous  to  baking.  This,  no  doubt,  imbues  the 
venison  with  the  flavour  of  the  seasonings,  but  at  the 
Name  time  drains  ofi^  the  juices,  and  hurts  the  natural 
flavour  of  the  meat,  so  that  we  discountenance  the  prac- 
tice. A  mock-venison  pcuty  is  made  of  a  breast  of  mutton 
soaked  in  claret,  vinegar,  and  spices,  for  a  night  before 
dressing. 

802.  Rook-pie. — Skin  the  young  birds;  cut  out  the 
backbones  ;  season  the  birds  with  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  a 
beef-steak  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  pour  a  good  deal 
of  thickened  melted  butter  over  the  birds.  Cover  with  a 
common  crust.  They  require  long  baking :  an  hour  and 
a  half.  They  may  with  advantage  be  first  stewed.  For 
lark-pie  and  sparrow-pie,  three  or  four  dozen  to  one  pie, 
we  give  no  receipt. 

N.B.  For  Savoury  Fish  Pies^  see  pages  214,  215. 

803.  Sea-Pie,  —  Cut  up  into  joints  and  blanch  a  fowl. 
Soak  slices  of  salt  beef.  Make  a  thick,  rich  paste  of  flour  and 
mashed  potatoes,  with  butter  or  with  dripping,  or  with  flour 
or  potato  paste  separately,  and  made  either  with  butter  or 
dripping  as  convenient.     Season  with  shred  onion^  pepper^ 


FBUIT-FIESy  &C.  469 

and  salt ;   and  in  a  deep  tin  buttered  pudding-dish  lay 
meat  and  paste,  layer  and  layer  alternately,  till  the  dish  is 
full.     Fill  up  the  dish  with  water,  and  let  it  bake  slowly,  > 
stew,  or  steam, — ^tum  out  and  serve  hot. 

FRUIT- PIES,  &C. 

Fruit-pies  require  a  light  and  rich  crust.  Fruits  that 
have  been  preserved  are  generally  baked  in  an  open  crust, 
and  are  ornamented  with  paste-bars,  basket-work,  stars, 
&c.  Preserved  fruit  need  not  be  put  in  till  the  crust  is 
baked,  as  the  oven  often  injures  their  colour. — See  Flans. 

804.  Apple-pie,  —  Wipe,  pare,  and  slice  the  apples ; 
core  with  the  instrument.  Lay  a  strip  of  puiF-paste  round 
the  edge  of  the  dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  the  sliced  fruit, 
then  sugai'  and  whatever  seasonings  you  use.  A  mixture 
of  quince  greatly  improves  the  flavour.  Proceed  in  this 
manner  till  the  dish  is  heaped,  keeping  the  fruit  highest 
in  the  middle.  Cover  it  with  puff-paste,  ornament  the 
border  and  the  top  with  leaves,  flowers,  &c.  —  Ohs,  A 
variety  of  apples  besides  codlins  are  used  for  baking,  though 
russetings,  Ribstone  pippins,  golden  pippins,  and  such  as 
are  a  little  acid,  are  esteemed  the  best.  Apple-pie  used  to 
be  seasoned  with  pounded  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  now  lemon- 
grate,  quince-marmalade,  candied  citron,  or  orange-pee], 
are  preferred.  If  the  apples  have  become  dry  and  insipid, 
the  parings  and  cores  may  be  boiled  with  a  stick  of  cinna- 
mon, and  the  strained  liquor  added  to  the  pie.  Apple-pie 
is  liked  hot.  It  is  eaten  with  plain  cream,  made  cream, 
or  frangipane.  It  was  wont  to  be  buttered  ;  and  this  is 
still  the  practice  in  some  provincial  situations  in  England, 
though  buttered  peas,  and  buttered  apple-pie,  for  reasons 
which  we  do  not  comprehend,  have  latterly  come  to  be  con- 
sidered ungenteel,  if  not  absolutely  vulgar.  Buttering 
is  performed  by  putting  a  piece  of  butter  into  the  hot  pie 
when  it  is  cut  open.  Apples  must  be  thrown  into  plenty 
of  water  as  they  are  pared,  or  they  will  become  black. 

805.  Ripe  Fruit  Pies.  —  Bkick  cherries  and  currants^ 
damsonsy  plums  of  all  kinds,  currants,  or  raspberries  and 
eranberrieSyapriccts,9,nd  gooseberries  suitably  mixed  or  alone, 
are  all  made  into  fruit-pies.  Place  the  fruit,  picked  and 
washed,  in  a  flattish  pie-dish,  raising  it  high  in  the  middle. 


464  CHAP.  IV. — ^PASTBT,  PIES,  &C. 

Allow  enough  of  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  rich  light  paste, 
which  fruit-pies  require  more  than  those  made  of  meat. 

806.  Green  Gooseberry-pie.  —  Top  and  tail  as  many- 
unripe  gooseberries  as  will  fully  fill  your  dish.  Line  the 
dish,  or  merely  border  it  with  paste.  Put  in  the  fruit,  and 
plenty  of  moist  sugar,  and  cover  the  pie  with  good  pufF- 
paste.  The  gooseberries  may  be  first  stewed  in  the  sugar. 
—  Ohs,  All  fruit,  as  it  goes  on  to  ripen,  requires  more 
sugar  till  fully  ripe. 

807.  Rhubarb-pie.  —  Peel  off  the  skin  from  stalks  of 
young  rhubarb,  and  cut  them  slantwise  into  bits  of  about 
an  inch  and  a  half.  Some  kinds  need  no  peeling.  Stew 
them  slowly  in  sugar,  or  in  butter  and  a  little  water,  till 
soft ;  sweeten,  and  make  them  into  a  covered  pie  or  open 
tart. — Obs.  Gooseberry,  apple,  rhubarb,  and  other  fruit- 
pies,  eat  very  well  cold  ;  or  the  fruit  may  be  stewed  and 
sweetened  for  common  use,  without  further  preparation. 
Fresh  good  cream  is  a  very  great  improvement  to  all  fruit 
pies  and  tarts.  The  next  best  thing  is  plain  custard.  In 
England  the  cream  is  often  sweetened,  thickened  with 
beat  yolks  of  eggs,  made,  in  short,  into  a  custard,  and 
poured  over  the  fruit.  Tn  Scotland,  cream  for  tarts  is 
usually  served  either  plain  or  merely  whisked ;  or  served 
whipt  over  the  cold,  stewed  fruit. 

808.  Fruit-tarts  of  Preserved  Fruits,  —  These  are 
made  of  all  sorts  of  marmalades,  jams,  and  preserved 
small  fruits.  If  of  apples,  pare,  core,  and  quarter  them. 
Stew  and  mash  them,  and  sweeten  them  with  fine  beat 
sugar.  Season  with  the  squeeze  and  grate  of  a  lemon,  a 
little  beat  cinnamon,  an  ounce  of  candied  orange-peel,  and 
a  little  white  wine  or  cider.  Cover  a  flat  dish  with  paste, 
and  place  a  broad  rim  of  puff-paste  round  the  edges,  which 
decorate,  as  with  leaves,  roses,  &c.  Bake  the  paste,  and 
put  in  the  jam,  either  when  the  crust  is  ready,  or  a  few 
minutes  before.  Paste-stars,  flowers,  &c.  may  be  stamped, 
and  baked  on  tins  to  ornament  the  top  ;  or  if  the  fruit  is 
put  in  at  first,  it  may  be  covered  with  pastry  trellis- work. 
— Obs.  Tarts  of  preserved  fruit,  w^hen  much  ornament  is 
wanted,  are  served  under  a  paste  croquante  of  sugar 
boiled  to  caramel ;  but  this  is  rather  the  business  of  the 


SCOTTISH  FLANB*  465 

professed  confectioner  than  of  the  practical  cook,  and  can- 
not be  taught  without  actual  experiment.— See  Flans* 

809.  Scottish  Flans :  Flan  a  la  Caleb  BaldersUme, — Rub 
butter  on  &  fluted  tin^n  mould,  with  a  loose  bottom,  and 
line  it  with  good  puff-paste  which  has  been  ten  times  rolled, 
and  has  stood  to  acquire  some  tenacity.  With  a  pastry-knife 
Vandyke  the  edge,  and  carve  each  Vandyke  as  a  rose* 
leaf,  veined.  Line  the  paste  with  paper,  and  fill  it  with 
bran  to  keep  the  shape  out  while  baking.  Bake  in  a 
sharp  oven  till  crisp ;  take  out  the  bran  and  paper,  and 
fill  with  any  sort  of  preserved  fruit,  as  cherries,  apples, 
apricots,  or  pears,  prepared  as  for  No.  708.  Creamed  flans 
are  made,  by  preparing  thick  frangipane  into  which  six 
ounces  of  sweet  and  one  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched 
and  finely  chopped,'[are  stirred.  —  Obs,  These  delicate  pre- 
parations, we  have  no  doubt,  were  perfectly  well  known 

when  Scotland's — 

**  Kings  kept  Court  in  Uolyrood.** 

The  art  has  lingered  on,  ever  since,  among  old-fashioned 
pastry-cooks  in  Edinburgh ;  and  we  have  seen  the  flan, 
most  beautifully  served,  with  the  green  Gascon  gooseberry, 
preserved  as  only  Mrs.  Fraser,  a  celebrated  pastry-cook  of 
the  last  generation,  could  preserve  and  flavour  this  delicate 
small  berry. 

810.  Tartlettes^  and  Puffs  of  Fruit. — Line  very  small 
patty-pans,  either  oval  or  round,  with  puff-paste,  and 
pare  the  edges  neatly.  Put  in  a  little  of  any  kind  of  jam 
or  marmalade,  and  either  cross-bar  the  tarts  with  paste- 
straws,  cut  out  with  a  notched  paste-runner,  or  wreathe 
paste-straws  round  them.  —  Ohs,  This,  or  making  little 
patties  or  pastry  ramakins,  is  a  very  good  way  of  using 
up  any  bit  of  paste  that  is  left  over  from  a  large  pie  or 
tart. 

Small  Puffs, — Roll  out  puff-paste  of  nearly  a  half- 
inch  thick.  Cut  it  into  pieces  about  five  inches  long,  to 
have,  when  doubled,  the  form  of  squares,  triangles,  cres- 
cents, &c.  Place  a  little  jam  of  any  kind  on  each,  and 
double  them  up.  Wet  and  pinch  them  close  at  the  edges 
with  a  fluted  paste-runner,  and  bake  them  on  tins,  with 
paper  below. — See  No.  818. 

2a 


466  CHAP.  IV. — PASTBY,  PIES,  &C. 

811.  Cranberry-Tart.  —  This  may  be  made  either  of 
fresh  or  preserved  cranberries.  Season  with  beat  clovea 
and  cinnamon.  Put  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sugar. 
Cover  with  a  puff-paste,  and  serve  with  cream,  which  to 
this  dry  fruit  is  indispensable. 

812.  Prune  or  ApricoUTarts^ — Wash  and  scald  the 
fruit ;  take  out  the  stones,  and  either  bruise  them,  and 
take  some  of  the  chopped  kernels  to  add  to  the  tarts,  or 
not,  as  you  choose.  Put  sugar  to  taste  to  the  fruit,  and 
bake  it  as  a  /?an,  tart,  or  pie. 

813.  To  Ice  TartSy  S^c, — Beat  the  white  of  an  eg^  very 
well,  and  with  this  brush  the  paste  with  a  feather,  either 
at  first,  or  when  half-baked^  which  prevents  the  icing 
from  becoming  scorched  in  the  oven.  When  brushed  well 
over  with  e^^y  sift  fine  sugar,  beat  to  powder,  over  it.  A 
heavier  kind  of  varnish  for  some  things  is  made  of  beat 
yolks  of  eggs  and  melted  butter. — See,  far  other  Icings^ 
Cakes,  No.  1005,  1006. 

814.  Common  Glazing  for  Paste, — Sugar  and  water : 
yolk  or  white  of  tgg  beat  up  with  water ;  white  of  egg 
and  sugar  sifted  over :  yolk  of  eg^  and  melted  butter. 

815.  Mince-meat  and  Mince-pies. — These  are  made  in  an 
endless  variety  of  ways.  We  recommend  to  every  young 
housekeeper  to  adopt  in  this  favourite  preparation  the 
receipt  of  her  own  grandmother.  This  ought  to  produce 
the  best  mince-meat  and  Christmas-pies.  Indeed,  every 
family  receipt-book  teems  with  prescriptions.  We  select 
what  is,  after  experiment  and  mature  consideration,  con- 
sidered the  best  formula. — Bake  or  boil  slightly  a  couple 
of  pounds  of  the  fine  lean  of  good  beef  or  toDgue.  Mince 
this,  or  scrape  it.  Mince  also  two  pounds  of  fresh  suet, 
two  of  apples,  pared  and  cored,  three  pounds  of  currants, 
rubbed,  picked,  and  dried,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  good 
raisins  stoned.  Let  the  things  be  separately  minced  till 
fine,  but  not  so  fine  as  to  run  together ;  then  mix  them 
well  with  a  pound  of  beat  sugar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  a  half-ounce  of  ground  ginger,  the  same  weight  of 
allspice  and  bruised  coriander^  seeds,  some  beat  cloves,  two 
nutmegs  grated,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons 
and  of  two  Seville  oranges,  half  a  pound  of  candied  lemou 


HINCS-RBS.  467 

«nd  orange-peel,  and  a  iquarier-ponnd  of  candied  citron 
sliced.  Mix  the  seasonings  ^ually  with  the  meat.  Keep 
the  minced  meat  closely  pressed  in  cans  in  a  cool,  dry- 
place.  Put  a  half-pint  of  hrandy,  or  pine -apple  ram,  into 
a  bottle  with  double  that  quantity  of  Madeira  or  sherry^ 
and  a  half-pint  of  orange-flower- water.  When  to  be  used, 
cover  baking-pans  of  any  size,  small  saucers,  or  a  small  -flat 
pie-dbh,  with  puff  or  plain  paste.  Moisten  the  mince-meat 
with  the  wine  and  brandy;  add  some  grate  and  juice  of  leinon^ 
The  dropped  apples  may  also  be  added  at  this  stage.  Fill 
the  pies«  Put  a  corer  of  puif-paste  over  them,  and,  if  a 
plain  paste,  ice  it.  Pare  the  edges  neatly,  and  ornament 
the  top  wnth  a  paste-knife.  Half  an  hour  of  a  moderate 
oven  will  bake  them.  Slip  them  out  of  the.tins,  and  serve 
them  hot. — Ohs.  Mince-pies  may  be  made  cheaper,  and  yet 
tolerably  good,  by  substituting  gravy  for  wine ;  or  by 
using  home-made  wine,  (ginger  wine  is  best ;)  by  lessening 
the  quantity  of  expensive  fruits  and  spiceries,  and  taking 
any  bit  of  dressed  beef  the  larder  affords. 
.  .  816.  JSuperlative  Mince-pies. — Rub  with  salt  and  mixed 
spices  the  lean  of  a  fat  bullock's  tongue.  Let  it  lie  for 
three  days,  and  parboil,  skin,  and  mince  or  scrape  two 
pounds  of  it.  Mince  separately  two  pounds  of  beef  kidney 
suet,  two  of  stoned  raisins,  three  pounds  of  Zante  currants^ 
picked,  plumped,  and  dried,  a  dozen  of  lemon  pippin  apples 
pared  and  cored,  and  a  half-pound  of  blanched  ahnonds, 
with  a  few  bitter  ones.  Mix  the  mince,  and  add  a  half-pound 
of  candied  citron  and  orange-peel  minced,  and  an  ounce  of 
beat  cinnamon  and  cloves,  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  three  or  four  lemons,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  allspice,  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  pounded,  and  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  Madeira,  the  same  quantity  of  brandy 
and  orange-flower-water.  Line  the  pans  with  a  ricli  pufl^- 
paste.  All,  bake,  and  serve  the  pies  hot  with  burnt  brandy. — 
Ohs,  The  brandy  should  be  burnt  at  table  as  it  is  used. 
Though  the  mince-meat  will  keep  good  f(»r  a  long  time,  it 
is  best  not  to  be  too  old. '  The  fruit,  suet,  and  wine  may  be 
added  when  the  pies  are  to  be  made,  as  the  suet  and  raw 
apples  are  apt  to  spoil;  and  the  dried  fruits,  tibough  in  less 
danger,  do  not  improve  by  keeping  in  the  minced  state. 
Mince-pies  warm  up  very  well  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  in  a 


468  CHAP.  nr. — ^pastbt,  piks,  &c. 

slaok  oren  before  the  fire,  or  on  the  hob.  A  good  addition 
to  mince-meat  is  a  conple  of  lemons  boiled  and  chopped, 
taking  ont  the  pips  and  coarse  parts. — See  Plumr-puddin^. 

817.  Common  Apple^  Gooseberry ^  or  Bkuharh  Paeties 
or  Tunp'Otere. — ^Make  a  hot  crust  with  dripping  or  lard 
melted  in  boiling  water ;  roll  it  out  quickly,  and  cut  it 
so  as  to  be  of  a  semicircular  form  when  turned  over.  Lay 
stewed  apples,  rhubarb,  or  scalded  gooseberries,  or  any 
jam,  in  the  crust,  with  moist  sugar  to  sweeten ;  add,  if 
apples,  quince,  lemon-peel,  or  cinnamon.  Cut  the  edges, 
double  up  and  pinch  the  crust,  and  bake  the  pasties  in  a 
moderate  oren.  If  there  be  icing  at  hand  they  may  be 
iced. 

PUPES. 

TuESE  are  called  apple-puffs,  lemon-pufis,  cheese-puiFs, 
egg-puffs,  &c.,  taking  the  name  from  the  principal  in- 
gredient in  their  composition. — See  No.  810. 

818.  Apple-pujfi, — Stew,  or  roast  apples  till  they  will 
peel  and  pulp  dry.  Mix  them  with  good  beat  sugar 
and  finely  chopped  lemon-peel.  Bake  them  in  rather  thin 
sweet  crust,  in  a  quick  oven.  They  are  best  when  made 
rather  small. 

819.  Lemon  or  Orange  Puffs. — Grate  down  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  refined  sugar,  and  mix  it  well  with  the 
grate  of  three  lemons,  or  two  Seville  oranges.  Beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  soUd-hoMng  froth,  and  putting 
this  to  the  sugar,  beat  the  whole  together  without  inter- 
mission for  half  an  hour.  Make  this  batter  into  any 
variety  of  shapes,  and  bake  it  on  oiled  paper  laid  on  tin 
plates  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold,  take  off  the  paper. 
— ^There  are  fifty  other  little  things  made  of  pastry  and 
bits  of  sweetmeats,  which  cannot  be  enumerated  here,  as 
Stoeet  jSandunches,  Gitnbkttes,  Genoises,  S^c,  (Sfc. 

SAVOURY  PATTIES. 

Patties,  like  small  vol-au-vents,  and  hors  t^'on^r^f,  (served 
in  paste,)  and  small  rissoles  and  croquetSy  are  an  elegant, 
though  secondary  class  of  culinary  preparations,  and  are  as 
much  admired  by  the  genteel  economist  as  fhe  gourmand. 
They  are  the  petUs  pdtes  of  the  French  kitchen.  Where 
dinners  have  been  given,  or  are  in  course  of  preparation,  it  is 
easy  to  make  a  dish  of  savoury  patties,  with  small  trouble 


SAVOURY  PATTIES.  469 

and  almost  no  expense.  Patties,  like  the  preparations  named 
above,  are  made  of  a  variety  of  things,  as  cold  veal,  fowl, 
rabbit,  hare,  lobsters,  oysters,  &c.  They  admit  of  all 
manner  of  seasonings,  but  must  be  nicely  minced  and 
served.  They  are  generally  baked  as  directed  below,  but  may 
be  made  by  frying,  either  for  a  dish  or  a  garnish  to  other 
dishes.  They  are  savoury  or  piquant  preparations,  proper 
for  first  and  second  courses,  between  the  more  solid  dishes, 

820.  To  make  Crust  for  Samcury  Patties. — Roll  out  puiF- 
paste  thin,  and  line  the  patty-pans.  Cut  out  the  tops  on 
paper,  with  a  tin  stamp  in  form  of  a  star  or  any  hand- 
some shape.  Mark  the  tops  very  neatly,  and  lay  a  piece 
of  paper  crumpled  up  or  a  bit  of  bread  into  the  lined 
patty-pan,  to  support  the  top  when  baking,  and  then  put 
on  the  top.  Baisie  the  patties,  and  ice  them.  When  to 
be  served,  take  off  the  tops  and  pick  out  the  paper,  fill  up 
with  the  hot  mince,  and  put  on  the  tops  neatly,  taking 
care  not  to  fill  the  patties  so  full  as  to  run  over. — Oha^ 
This  plan  of  baking  the  crust  separately  will,  on  trial,  be 
found  much  superior  to  filling  patties,  or  things  of  the  sort, 
at  the  first.  The  icing  may  be  omitted.  Ha%^  at  least  a 
dozen ;  dress  them  on  a  napkin  pyramidically. 

821.  Chicken  and  Ham  Patties. — Skin  and  mince  very 
finely  the  breast  or  white  fleshy  parts  of  a  cold  chicken, 
and  about  half  the  quantity  of  lean  ham,  or  of  tongue . 
highly  flavoured.  Have,  in  a  nice  small  saucepan,  a  little 
good  gravy  drawn  from  bones  or  trinmiingB,  or  the  jelly  of 
roast  veal  or  lamb,  thickened  with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour;  add  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  white  pepper, 
salt,  a  very  little  cayenne,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon* 
juice.  Stir  the  mince  in  this  till  quite  hot,  and  fill  up 
the  patties,  which  are  best  baked  empty,  as  above,  as  the 
minced  meat  hardens  in  the  baking. — Serve  as  820. 

822.  Egg  and  Ham  Patties, — In  these  hread  is  used  for 
paste,  or  they  are  served  en  croustade.  Scoop  out  part 
from  thick  slices  of  a  stale  loaf  :  shape  the  croustades^  and 
fry  of  a  gold-colour :  drain  and  fill  the  cavity  with  ham, 
prepared  as  directed  for  chicken  and  ham  patties  ;  lay  a 
nicely  poached  egg  on  each. — Obs,  Small  loaves,  with  a 
thick  bottom-crust,  are  baked  for  this  purpose ;  and  what 
bakers  call  Sandwich  loaves  might  answer  well. 


1 


470  CHAP.  rr. — ^pastrt,  pibs,  &c. 

823.  Raidit  and  Hare  Patties. — ^Mince  the  best  parts  of 
8  cold  roast  rabbit  or  hare,  rery  fine,  with  a  little  finely- 
shred  mutton-suet.  Draw  a  grary  from  the  bones,  or  take 
any  other  good  gravy ;  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour, 
and  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  pepper,  nutmeg,  mace,  the 
grate  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  very  little  red  wine,  or  any 
suitable  flavoured  vinegar.  Stew  the  mince,  and  fill  the 
patties  as  above  directed. — 06^.  If  there  be  any  stuffing 
of  the  hare  left,  it  will  make,  when  minced,  a  good  addi- 
tion to  the  patties,  as  will  all  the  native  gravy  left  about 
veal,  hare,  &c. 

824.  Oyster  Patties.^-Pre^tLre  the  paste  for  these  patties 
as  in  No.  820,  and  wash  in  their  own  liquor,  and  beard  as 
many  small  oysters  as  will  make  a  dozen  of  patties. 
Strain  the  liquor,  and  put  to  it  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour.  Cut  the  oysters  into  small  bits,  and  stew  them 
in  this  with  a  little  salt,  mace,  and  white  pepper,  the 
grate  of  half  a  lemon,  and,  if  liked,  a  little  cayenne.  A 
spoonful  of  thick  cream  may  be  added.  Put  this  hot  into 
the  patties  when  ready  to  serve.  Some  good  cooks  put  a 
little  minced  parsley  to  the  oysters,  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  no  other  seasoning. — Fry  and  serve  as  820. 

825.  Lobster-patties,  —  Chop  the  meat  of  the  tail  and 
claws  of  a  boiled  hen-lobster.  Pound  a  little  of  the  spawn 
in  a  mortar,  with  a  half-ounce  of  butter  crumbled,  a  little 
veal-jelly  gravy  or  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  cream ;  add 
a  seasoning  of  cayenne,  mace,  salt,  a  little  essence  of 
anchovy,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-grate.  Stew  the 
lobster-meat  in  this  for  a  few  minutes,  adding  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  water,  if  over  thick,  and  a  very  little  flour  to 
give  consistence  to  the  gravy.    Fill  the  patties  with  the 

hot  stew  when  they  are  ready  to  serve. Another  wa^y 

French,  Make  the  meat  into  balls  the  size  of  a  very  large 
pea : — e^^  and  roll  the  balls  in  fine  crumbs  and  lobster  coral : 
fr^'  and  place  five  in  each  prepared  patty-oase^  and  a  larger 
one  to  crown.  Moisten  with  as  much  sauce  VAumre  as 
the  patties  will  hold  without  slopping.*— See  No.  820. 

826.  Oyster  and  Mushroom  Patties.-^Haike  two  parts  of 
stewed  oysters,  and  one  part  of  fresh  mushrooms ;  cut  them 
separately  into  small  dice.     Fry  the  mushrooms  in  butter 

md  flour.     Moisten  this  with  §ravy>  the  oyster-U^uoi^ 


OYSTER  PATTIES.  4?! 

and  a  little  cream.  Season  with  salt,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
cayenne.     Stir  in  the  oysters,  and  fill  the  patties. 

827*  Turkey-patties. — Mince  the  white  part,  and  a  little 
grated  ham.  Stew  this  in  a  little  good  gravy,  or  melted 
butter.  Put  a  spoonful  of  cream  to  the  mince,  and  season 
with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  mace. 

Veal  and  Ham  Patties.  —  Make  and  season  them  as 
chicken  and  ham  patties.  No.  821. 

828.  French^  or  Modern  English  Patties.  —  These  are 
essentially  the  same  as  patties  baked  in  tins,  and  elaborately 
carved  by  the  hand  as  above,  but  they  difier  in  form,  and  are 
in  fact  just  small  vol- au- vents,  or  large  pastry  Aor«  d'oeuvres, 
according  to  the  composition  witli  which  they  are  filled. 
Have  some  very  light  puff-paste  about  a  half  inch  thick : 
with  a  fluted  pastry  stamp  of  three  and  a  half  inches  in 
diameter,  cut  out  as  many  pieces  as  you  wish  patties  ;  and, 
with  one  of  less  than  two  inches  diameter,  as  many  more  : 
wet  the  smallest,  and  place  it  over  the  largest :  and  with  a 
third  cutter,  of  one  and  a-half  inch  diameter,  press  lightly, 
but  to  make  a  distinct  impression  through  both.  Bake 
in  a  baking-tin  in  a  quick  oven,  till  of  a  good  colour  — 
about  fifteen  minutes :  cut  out  the  marked  top,  keeping 
the  upper  crust  whole :  scoop  out  the  paste  below,  put  in 
a  tea-spoonful  of  a  suitable  sauce,  and  then  the  prepared 
mince  of  oyster,  lobster,  chicken,  or  whatever  it  is :  add  a 
little  more  sauce,  and  either  put  on  the  top,  or,  for  ham  and 
chicken  patties,  and  some  others,  as  oysters  and  shrimps, 
use  fried  crumbs.  Sweet  Patties  the  same  ;  but  the  paste 
may  have  a  little  sugar,  and  be  seasoned  with  essence  of 
lemon,  or  any  flavouring  ingredient  suitable  to  what  is  to 
be  served  in  them,  adding  a  very  little  custard  or  frangi* 
pane. — N.  B.  Never  fill  patties  so  full  as  to  slop. 

829.  Beef'paUies  or  Podovies,  —  Shred  a  tender  under- 
done piece  of  lean  roast  beef,  with  a  little  of  the  firm  fat. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  onion,  an  anchovy  boned  and 
chopped,  and  a  very  little  eschalot  or  Chili  vinegan  The 
podovies  may  be  made  either  by  putting  the  mince  into 
hot  paste  like  apple-pasty,  and  frying  them,  or  be  baked 
in  patty-pans  in  a  good  plain  crust  made  of  dripping  or 
lard. — See  Godiveau^  No.  692« 


472  CHAP,  IV. PASTBY,  PIES,  &C. 

8S0.  To  prepare  Meat  for  email  Piee  for  euppere  and 
hot  Luncheone;  or  for  Pattiee, — Take  in  the  proportion 
of  a  pound  of  fillet  of  veal,  a  pound  of  beef,  and  a  half- 
pound  of  suet.  Mince  the  meat  roughly,  and  the  suet 
less  than  the  meat.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  allspice. 
The  meat  thus  prepared  will  keep  some  days  if  pressed 
into  a  jar.  When  to  be  baked  in  saucers,  or  as  little 
raised  pies  or  patties,  add  a  little  minced  parsley*  Or 
keep  the  pies  baked,  and  heat  them  when  wanted. 

831.  Sweet  Pattiee, — Mince  the  boiled  meat  of  a  cair»- 
foot,  three  apples,  and  a  little  candied  orange  and  lemon 
peel :  add  fresh  lemon-grate,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a 
little  fine  sugar,  a  small  glass  of  sweet  wine,  a  little  nut- 
meg, the  chopped  yolk  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  and,  if 
wished,  a  little  shred  mutton-suet  or  marrow.  Bake  the 
patties  in  pufF-paste.  Pattiee  may  be  made  like  small 
mince-pies,  and  seasoned  in  an  endless  variety  of  ways. 
They  may  be  made  as  Tum-overe^  &nd  fried  in  plenty  of 
lard  or  dripping.  They  are  also  a  favourite  family-dish 
when  baked  as  Tum-overe  on  tins. 

PUDDINGS. 

Without  pretending  to  make  a  good  cook  by  book,  we 
believe  that  any  tolerable  cook,  however  young  in  the  art, 
may  compound  a  good  pudding  by  attending  to  the  following 
simple  rules  and  plain  directions: — Attention  is  all  that  is  re- 
quired, and  a  little  manual  dexterity  in  turning  the  pudding 
out  of  the  mould  or  cloth  when  this  is  necessary.  Let  the 
several  ingredients  be  each  fresh  and  good  of  its  kind,  as 
one  bad  article,  particularly  eggs,  will  taint  the  whole 
.composition.  HaVe  the  moulds  and  pudding-cloths  washed, 
boiled  in  wood-ashes,  and  always  laid  by  quite  dry  after 
using.  Puddings  ought  to  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water, 
which  must  be  kept  on  a  quick  boil :  or  baked  in  a 
quick  but  not  scorching  oven.  A  pudding  in  which  there 
is  muck  bread  must  be  tied  loosely,  to  allow  room  for  swell- 
ing. A  hatter-pudding  ought  to  be  tied  up  firmly.  Eggs 
for  puddings  must  be  used  in  greater  quantity  when  of 
small  size.  The  yolks  and  whites,  if  the  pudding  is 
wanted  particularly  light  and  nice,  should  be  strained 
after  being  separately  well  beat.     A  little  salt  is  necessary 


PUDDINGS.  473 

for  all  potato,  bean,  or  pease  puddisgs,  and  all  puddings  in 
which  there  is  suet  or  meat.  It  saves  sugar  and  improyes 
the  flavour.  The  several  ingredients,  after  being  well 
stirred  together,  should,  in  general,  have  a  little  time  to 
stand,  that  the  flavours  may  blend.  A  frequent  fault  of 
boiled  puddings,  which  are  often  solid  bodies,  is  being 
underdone.  Baked  puddings  are  as  often  scorched. 
Puddings  may  be  steamed  with  advantage,  placing  the 
mould  or  basin  in  the  steamer ;  or  three-parts  dipped  in  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  which  must  be  kept  boiling,  and  be 
eked  up  as  it  wastes.  When  the  pudding-cloths  are  to  be 
used,  dip  them  in  hot  water,  and  dredge  them  with  flour ; 
the  moulds  must  be  buttered.  When  a  pudding  begins  to 
set  in*  the  oven,  stir  it  up  in  the  dish  to  prevent  the  fruit, 
&c.,  from  settling  down  to  the  bottom;  and  if  boiled, 
turn  over  the  cloth  in  the  pot  for  the  same  reason, 
and  also  to  prevent  it  from  sticking  to  the  bottom, 
on  which  a  plate  may  be  placed,  as  a  preventive.  As 
the  water  wastes,  flU  up  the  pot  with  boiling  water.  The 
time  must  be  according  to  size  and  solidity.  Large 
puddings  are  sometimes  tethered  to  the  ring  of  a  dozen  or 
fifteen  pound  weight  to  keep  them  below  water  in  the  «pot. 
When  the  pudding  is  taken  out  of  the  pot,  dip  it  quickly 
into  cold  water,  and  set  it  in  a  basin  of  its  size.  It  will 
then  more  readily  separate  from  the  cloth  without  break- 
ing. Have  the  oven  very  clean  for  all  uses,  cleaning  ijb 
regularly  before  lighting  the  fire.  Take  care  the  juice  of 
pies  does  not  boil  over,  or  the  liquid  contents  of  puddings; 
and  remember  that  sugar,  butter,  and  suet  become  liquid  in 
puddings.  It  is  from  their  excess  that  puddings  often  break. 
Be,  therefore,  rather  sparing  of  sugar ;  for  if  you  have  much 
syrup  you  must  have  more  eggs,  which  make  puddings 
heavy.  It  is  the  quantity  of  sugar  which  makes  tapioca 
and  arrow>root,  boiled  plain,  so  very  troublesome  to  keep 
in  shape  when  moulded.  Rice  or  other  grain  puddings 
must  not  be  allowed  to  boil  in  the  oven  before  setting,  or 
the  ingredients  will  separate  and  never  set ;  so  never  put 
them  into  a  very  hot  oven.  As  a  rule  we  lay  down,  that 
such  flavouring  ingredients,  as  lemon  grate  and  juice,  va- 
nilla, and  cocoa-nut,  are  more  admired  in  modern  puddings 
than  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  nutmeg.     Care  must  be  taken 


474  CHAP.  IT. — FA2ITRY,  VIBS,  &C. 

to  mix  batter  paddings  smoothly.  Let  the  dried  flour  be 
gradually  mixed  with  a  very  little  of  the  milk,  as  in  mak- 
ing mustard  or  starch,  and  afterwards,  in  nice  cookery, 
strain  the  batter  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Raisins,  prunes, 
and  damsons  for  puddings  must  be  carefully  stoned ;  or 
sultanas  may  be  used  in  place  of  other  raisins.  Cur- 
rants must  be  picked,  and  plumped  in  hot  water, 
rubbed  in  a  floured  cloth  and  plumped  before  the  fire ; 
almonds  must  be  blanched  and  sliced  ;  and  in  mixing 
grated  bread,  pounded  biscuit,  &c.  with  milk,  pour  the 
milk  on  hot,  and  cover  the  vessel,  which  is  both  better 
and  easier  than  boiling.  Suet  must  be  quite  fresh. 
Mutton-suet  for  puddings  is  lighter  than  that  of  beef ;  but 
marrow,  when  it  can  be  obtained,  is  better  than  either.  A 
baked  pudding  for  company  has  often  a  paste-border  or  a 
garnishing  of  blanched  and  sliced  almonds  about  it,  but 
these  borders  are  merely  matters  of  ornament ;  if  boiled, 
puddings  may  also  be  garnished  in  various  ways,  as  Tidth 
bits  of  currant-jelly.  The  best  seasoning  for  batter-pud- 
dings is  conserve  of  Seville  orange,  lemon-rind,,  lemon- 
brandy,  or  orange-flower  water.  Spirits,  and  even  wine, 
are  every  day  less  used,  both  from  taste  and  economy.—^ 
Pudding-SaiiceSy  see  pp.  276,  477.  The  sweetness  and 
flavour  of  all  puddings  must  be  determined  by  particular 
taste.  And  sugar  can  be  added  at  table.  Iced-puddings 
are  the  greatest  modei-n  discovery  in  this  class  of  dishes. 

832.  A  Common  small  Plumr-pudding, — Take  six  ounces 
of  shred  suet,  two  of  dry  flour,  four  of  stoned  raisins, 
three  of  picked  and  plumped  currants,  a  little  allspice  and  i 
nutmeg,  or  cinnamon*  Thin  this  with  four  beat  eggs  ' 
and  a  little  milk,  and  put  in  either  a  glass  of  sweet  wine 
or  a  half-glass  of  rum  or  brandy,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  sugar  to  taste.  There  are  a  thousand  ways  of  making 
a  huge  plum-pudding. — Obs.  The  wine  or  spirits  may  be 
spared,  and  the  pudding  flavoured  with  distilled  waters, 
as  peach-water,  orange-flower-water,  &c.  Bread-crumbs, 
or  a  part  bread,  make  the  pudding  lighter  than  flour,  and 
a  spoonful  of  treacle  improves  the  colour ;  the  materials, 
except  the  milk,  eggs,  and  spirits,  should  be  mixed  the 
night  before,  and  the  whole  must  be  vigorously  and  re- 
peatedly stirred  ;  tie  firmly  up,  and  boil  for  four  hours. 


FLUM-PVDDIN9.  4T£ 

The  Trinity  Ckrutmtis  Plum-pudding, 
[We  haye  had  the  felicity,  on  sandry  Merry  ChristmaMS,  of 
sitting  in  the  blaze  of  the  ^  Yule-clog,"  embowered  among  oyer- 
greens  at  ^  a  good  man's  feast,"  who  well  understood,  and  him- 
self looked,  to  the  due  concoction  and  boiling  of  the  pudding 
of  his  nation,  weighing  from  some  twenty-fiye  to  thirty  pounds. 
For  it  we  gire  his  receipt,  which  we  need  not  say  is  excellent ; 
proTed  and  approved,"] 

The  Trinity  Christmas  Pvdding.  —  Three  pounds  raisins,  half 
Muscatel  and  half  Yalentia,  three  pounds  currants,  three  pounds 
beef  suet  chopped  very  fine,  sixty  eggs,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk, 
three  pounds  best  raw  sugar,  the  rind  of  six  lemons  minced  yery 
small,  four  pounds  of  fine  flour,  a  half-pound  treacle,  four  nut- 
megs grated,  and  cinnamon  and  cloyes  pounded  to  taste;  one 
large  table-spoonful  of  salt,  two  wine-glasses  of  brandy,  two  of 
rum,  one  of  Port;  of  sliced  candied  orange  and  lemon-peel  a 
half-ounce  each,  citron-peel  a  half-ounce.  The  whole  must 
be  thoroughly  well  mixed  early  on  the  24th  December,  and 
boiled  for  ten  hours  on  Christmas  Eye,  and  four  hours  on  CSurist- 
mas  Day,  or  from  leaying  chapel  till  dinner-time,  taking  care  the 
whole  time  to  keep  the  boiler  filled  with  boiling  water,  and  the 
fire  strong  and  constant.  Farther,  in  preparing  for  the  boiler, 
the  cloth,  first  scalded,  afterwards  squeezed,  is  put  on  the  dresser 
and  well  dredged  with  fiour,  and  then  placed  yery  eyenly  oyer  a 
colander,  so  tl^t  it  shall  be  in  the  middle  of  it.  The  pudding 
ia  then  put  into  the  cloth,  being  well  stirred  up,  a  person  plait- 
ing the  cloth  so  that  it  shall  be  eyenly  taken  up  that  no  water 
shall  get  into  it.  It  must  then  be  excessiyely  well  tied  up,  allow- 
ing some  room  for  the  pudding  swelling,  and  boiled.  The  Christ- 
mas  Pudding  should  be  served  up  with  a  sprig  of  arbutus  stuck 
in  the  middle,  with  one  of  its  red  berries,  and  a  sf^rig  of  yarie- 
gated  holly  with  one  or  two  berries  on  each  side  of  it.  This  is 
to  keep  away  the  witches. 

833.  A  superfine  Plum-pudding, — Take  four  ounces  of 
pounded  pudding-biscuit,  or  of  good  common  biscuit,  and 
two  ounces  of  the  best  flour,  a  half-pound  of  bloom  or 
muscatel  raisins  stoned,  the  same  quantity  of  fi*esh  Zante 
currants  picked  and  plumped,  and  a  pound  of  kidney  suet 
stripped  of  skins  and  filaments,  and  shred  ;  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter-pound  of  fine  beat 
sugar,  a  drachm  of  pounded  cinnamon,  two  blades  of 
mace,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt ;  two  ounces  of  candied 
lemon,  orange  and  citron  peel  sliced,  and  two  ounces  of 
blanched  almonds  roughly  chopped,  also  the  grated  rind 
of  two,  and  the  juice  of  four  lemons.  Beat  six  eggs  well, 
find  put  to  them  a  little  sweet  milk,  a  glass  of  brandv, 
and  then  mix  in  the  flour^  and  all  the  ingredients  minced^ 


476  CHAP.  IV. — PASTBTy  PIES,  &C. 

Tie  up  the  pudding  firmly,  and  boil  it  for  four  or  five 
hours,  keeping  up  the  boil,  and  turning  the  cloth.  Serve 
pudding-sauce,  pouring  some  over.  —  (No.  305.)  —  Obs. 
Plum-pudding  will  keep  long,  and  re- warm  when  wanted, 
in  slices,  in  the  Dutch  oven  or  frying-pan,  or  served  in  a 
pastry  crust.  A  plum- pudding  with  meat  may  be  made 
either  according  to  the  receipt  for  minced  pies^  or  a  Bride's 
pie,  adding  enough  of  eggs  and  milk.  The  same  pudding 
may  be  baked.* 

834.  Marrow-puddinff, — Grate  as  much  bread  as  will 
fill  a  large  breakfast-cup  quite  full.  Put  it  into  a  jug, 
and  pour  nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  sweet  milk  or  thin 
cream  over  it,  and  let  it  swell  and  soak,  while  you  shred 
a  half-pound  of  marrow  or  kidney  suet,  and  beat  up  four 
large  or  five  small  eggs.  Have  two  ounces  of  raisins 
stoned,  and  two  ounces  of  currants  picked  and  plumped. 
Sweeten  the  pudding  to  taste,  and  season  it  with  a  very 
little  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon  in 
powder.  Cover  a  flat  stoneware  dish  on  the  edge  with 
strips  of  pufF-paste,  and  mark  this  neatly  in  foliage. 
Bake  the  pudding  in  this  dish,  or  plainly  in  a  deep  dish* 
'—'Obs.  A  few  blanched  cut  almonds,  or  a  little  candied 
citron  or  orange-peel,  may  be  put  to  this  pudding  for 
variety.  A  little  finely-sifted  sugar  may  be  strewed  on 
the  top,  which  makes  a  good  veil  to  puddings  when  un<^ 
luckily  scorched  in  the  oven  ;  and  a  few  blanched  almonds 
sliced  may  be  stuck  round  it  for  ornament.  In  a  fiat 
dish  twenty-five  minutes  will  bake  it.  It  will  require  a 
half-hour  in  a  deep  dish  :  or  it  ma^  be  boiled  in  a  pudding- 
mould.  This  pudding,  called  also  Aldermans*,  will  keep  and 
cut  in  slices,  which  may  be  fiied,  broiled,  or  heated  in  a 
Dutch  oven.  A  Suet-pudding,  a  Baked  Plum-pudding^ 
and  a  FcU-pudding,  are  made  exactly  as  the  above,  only 
the  quantity  of  fruit  may  be  varied  at  pleasure,  or  cheaper 
fruit  substituted. 

834.*  The  St,  Ronans  Plum-pudding,  d  la  Fran^aise^ 
excellent. — Chop  together  twelve  ounces  of  fresh  beef  kid- 

*  Instead  of  one  huge  plum-pudding,  -we  prepare  at  Ths  Cleirum 
ft  Hen  and  Chickens,  putting  the  Hen,  of  ten  or  twelve  pounds,  to  boil 
&  couple  of  hours  before  her  Chickens.  We  have  the  Hen  for  Christ* 
.nuks  or  company,  and  a  piutn^Chi^em  can  be  heated  up  any  day* 


PUDDING  SAUCE.  477 

ney  suet^  and  six  of  hard  marrow,  throwing  into  the  mince 
six  onnces  of  the  finest  sifted  flonr.  Put  this  into  a  large 
basin,  and  mix  with  it  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  four  ounces 
of  pounded  sugar,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  large  tea-cupful 
of  milk.  Stir  well  up.  Add  two  ounces  of  candied  orange 
or  citron  peel,  cut  in  delicate  stiips,  a  quarter  of  a  nut^ 
meg  grated,  six  ounces  of  currants,  cleaned,  six  ounces 
uf  Muscatel  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped,  with  three 
pared  rennets ;  and,  if  you  hare  it,  four  large  spoonfuls 
of  apricot  jam.  Stir  the  materials  well.  Add  five  eggs, 
and  stir  briskly ;  and,  lastly,  the  grate  and  juice  [of  two 
lemons.  Stir  again  ;  allow  to  soak  for  an  hour  or  two,  if 
conyenient,  to  blend  and  settle,  and  tie  up  the  pudding 
firmly  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  for  four  or  five  honrB.-'^Saiiee, 
Two  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  two 
of  fresh  butter,  a  grain  of  salt,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  a  large 
spoonful  of  cream,  and  a  half-pint  of  Sherry,  or  a  large 
glass  of  Maraschino,  or  of  black  cherry  brandy,  strained 
and  poured  over  the  pudding. 

834.^  Garimis  Pudding  Sauce-^he  Ckaudoe, — Beat  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  to  which  add  a  half-pint  of  Madeira,  and 
four  ounces  of  pounded  sugar.  Set  this  upon  embers  or  a 
slow  fire,  and  mill  it  with  a  chocolate  mill.  It  will  thicken 
and  become  smooth,  and  is  a  superior  pudding  sauce. 
Serve  it  in  a  sauce  tureen,  and  the  pudding  without  sauce. 
The  chaudot  answers  well  for  all  kinds  of  plum,  or  other 
fat  puddings. 

835.  A  Hunter's  Pudding, — This  is  a  convenient  variety 
of  plum-pudding.  Stone  a  pound  of  raisins,  and  chop 
them,  shred  a  pound  of  suet,  clean  a  pound  of  currants, 
grate  the  rind  of  two  lemons  over  this,  and  mix  up  six 
beat  eggs  with  a  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  pound  of  sugar, 
a  very  little  salt,  and  what  milk  will  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Season  with  a  salt-spoonful  of  Jamaica  pepper,  and  the 
same  quantity  of  nutmeg ;  and  add  candied  citron  and 
orange-peel,  if  you  like.  Boil  for  six  or  seven  hours  in  a 
cloth  or  mould,  and  serve  with  sauce.  No.  834.® — Obs.  This 
pudding  will  keep  a  long  while,  and  in  this  its  utility  con- 
sists ;  it  may  either  be  fried,  broiled  in  slices,  or  warmed 
up  in  a  fresh  cloth.  It  will  take  a  long  time  to  get 
hot  quite  through  if  re-wanned  whole.     If  made   with 


47s  CHAP.  IT. — PASTRY,  PiBS,  &C. 

meat  instead  of  suet  it  will  eat  cold  :  and  if  minee-meaty 
No.  815,  is  used  witk  the  addition  of  bread-crumbs,  adding 
to  a  pound  of  mince-meat  three  ounces  of  dry  panada,  and 
mixing  up  the  whole  with  a  glass  of  spirits,  and  the  grate 
and  juice  of  a  lemon  and  three  beat  eggs,  and  boiling  for 
three  hours,  you  have  an  excellent  Hunters  Minee^meat 

896.  Plain  Bread-pudding,  —  Pour  a  pint  of  boiling 
milk  over  what  will  fiil  a  breakfast-cup  of  bread-crumbs. 
Let  them  soak  covered  till  cold,  and  mash  smooth  with  a 
spoon.  Sweeten  this  to  taste.  Add  to  it  four  eggs,  well 
beat»  the  size  of  an  egg  of  butter,  and  season  with  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg.  Stir  in  two  ounces  of  currants  picked 
and  plumped,  or  a  few  cut  raisins :  or  the  pudding  may 
be  made  very  rich  by  the  addition  of  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds,  candied  citron  and  orange-peel,  with  more  raisins 
and  curcants.  Boil  it  in  a  buttered  basin,  or  bake  it  in  a 
dish.  Pounded  sweet  or  plain  biscuit  may  be  used  instead 
of  crumbs,  and  for  all  puddings  where  bread  is  used,  sponge- 
cake may  be  employed  without  many  eggs.  A  Brown 
Bread-pudding  is  made  as  above,  but  plainly ;  and  also  a 
Save-all  or  Crust-pudding,  Small  bread-puddings  may  be 
baked  in  buttered  cups. — The  French  have  their,  or  our, 
Brit  poudin,  as  they  term  it,  made  with  sundry  addi- 
tions and  variations,  of  which  the  most  showy  is  giving  the 
pudding  a  raised  or  SoufflS  look,  by  lightly  stirring  in 
the  whipt  whites  of  the  eggs  the  instant  before  putting  the 
pudding  to  bake,  and  sifting  sugar  as  glaze  over  the  solid 
froth. 

8d7.  Rice-Pudding, — Wash  well  in  several  waters,  and 
pick  a  half-pound  of  the  best  rice.  Boil  it  slowly  in  a 
little  water  for  a  few  minutes,  pour  off,  and  put  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  milk  to  it  with  a  roll  of  lemon-peel.  Stir 
it  constantly,  to  prevent  it  from  sticking.  When  quite 
soft,  pour  it  into  a  dish,  and  mix  two  ounces  of  fresh* 
butter,  or  of  nicely  Shred  suet  with  it ;  and  when  cool, 
three  or  four  beat  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  seasoning  of 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Coyer  the  edges  of  a  flattish  pie- 
dish  with  paste,  which  cut  into  leaves,  and  bake  the  pudding 
in  it.  A  few  cleaned  currants  may  be  put  to  it.  This 
pudding  may  be  thinned  witk  milk  and  boiled  in  a  doth ; 


BTCE-PUDD1N08.  479 

tr  it  may,  allowing  a  doable  quantity  of  suet,  be  filled 
into  skins  and  so  boiled.  Chopped  apples,  stoned  prunes, 
pistachio-nut  kernels,  crumbled  ratafia  cakes,  dried  chenies, 
any  sort  of  apple,  orange,  or  apricot  jam  or  liqueur^  may 
all  enrich  a  rice-pudding,  and  the  rice  may  be  ground 
instead  of  whole,  &c.*  When  strips  of  candied  peel  is 
used,  this  takes  the  name  of  a  Patna-pudding. 

838.  Delicate  mnall  Rice-puddings, — Prepare  four  ounces 
of  rice  as  above  directed,  and  put  to  it  three  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  and  a  half-pint  of  cream.  Wheti  cold,  mix 
in  sugar  to  taste,  and  six  well-beat  yolks  of  eggs,  with 
three  whites,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  a  little  cinnamon. 
Butter  small  cups,  and  putting  into  each  a  few  slices  of 
candied  citron,  fill  very  nearly  full,  and  bake  them. 
Dish  and  serve  them  hot  on  a  napkin,  with  sweet  sauce  in 
a  boat. — See  Nos.  804-305. 

839.  Castle-puddings,  also  called  Sutherland  Puddings,'-^ 
Takd  the  weight  of  two  eggs  in  flour,  butter,  and  sugar. 
Set  the  butt«r  in  a  basin  before  the  fire  till  half  melted  ; 
then  beat  it  to  a  cream  ;  beat  the  two  eggs  for  ten  minutes, 
and  then  mix  them  gently  with  the  butter,  tlien  the  sugar, 
then  the  flour  ;  add  nutmeg  and  grated  lemon-peel ;  bake 
in  cups  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven ;  serve  on  a 
napkin. 

840.  Sago  and  Tapioca  Puddings, — Wash  in  several 
waters,  and  boil  four  spoonfuls  of  sago  in  a  quart  of  new 
milk.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  season  with  cinnamon,  lemon- 
peel  grated,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg.  Add,  when  cold, 
four  eggs  well  beat,  and  bake  in  a  dish  with  a  cut  paste- 
border. — Obs.  The  sago  may  be  first  boiled  in  water,  and 
then  have  wine  and  lemon-peel  put  to  it,  with  some  beat 
butter,  and  no  milk.  For  the  Tapioca^  if  real,  steep  four 
spoonfuls  for  twelve  hours  in  a  quart  of  water  or  sweet 
milk,  and  use  eggs,  and  sweeten  and  season  as  above. 
British  Tapioca,  that  is,  pot«to-flour  in  grains,  requires 

*  We  liave  seen  wheat,  struck  in  the  same  manner  as  pot  or  pearl 
barley,  substitated  for  rice  in  making  paddings.  It  is  much  cheaper, 
can  he  had  fresh  at  all  times,  and  is  by  many  persons  thought  better 
thMi  rice.  It  is  in  &ct  cheap  Semoulina.  Rice,  chopped  suet,  molasses, 
skim-milk,  and  ginger,  will  make  a  good  cheap  pudding. — P.  T. — See 


480  CHAP.  lY. — ^PASTBT,  PIES,  8lC. 

no  soaking.  If  the  milk  is  hot,  a  half-hour  will  do.  If 
— which  is  a  hetter  way-— it  he  first  soaked  in  warm  water, 
drain  it  and  mix  with  the  milk.  This  is  a  plain  good 
pudding,  to  which  nutmeg  alone,  which  is  now  cheap, 
makes  a  sufficient  seasoning,  with  a  little  wine. — We 
know  of  no  more  delicate,  or  indeed  delicious  preparation 
than  genuine  Tapioca,  boiled  first  in  milk,  then  with  sugar 
and  lemon  seasonings,  again  boiled  in  a  mould,  and  when 
cold  turned  out  and  eaten  with  plaia  cream. 

841 .  BaJseweU  Pudding^  or  preserved  Fruit  Pudding  with 
custard  mixture, — Place  a  layer  of  preserved  fruit  (from 
humble  gooseberries  up  to  exquisite  peaches  or  apricots^ 
in  a  tart  dish  bordered  with  paste.  Mix  with  it  a  good 
deal  of  candied  citron  or  orange-peel  cut  in  thin  strips. 
Make  a  custard  of  five  beat  eggs,  five  ounces  of  melted 
fresh  butter,  six  of  pounded  loaf-sugar,  and  three  spoonfuls 
of  lemon-brandy.  Bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
This  may  be  called  the  successor  of  the  Marrow  pudding 
in  many  provincial  parts  of  England,  and  is  an  improve- 
ment on  that  old  favourite  of  John  Bull. 

A  Modem  Welsh,  otherwise  The  Quctkei^s  Pudding.^—To 
a  half-pound  of  nicely-chopped  fresh  suet,  add  a  half-pound 
of  grated  stale  bread,  a  half-pound  of  loaf-sugar  pounded, 
the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  and  the  juice  of  two. 
Cement  the  whole  with  two  beat  eggs.  Butter  a  tin 
mould  with  a  grooved  lid,  and  steam,  or  set  the  pudding  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  for  two  hours.  This  we  consider  an 
excellent  plain  family  pudding,  which  the  lemon  seasoning 
renders  somewhat  refined,  when  compared  with  common 
fat  puddings. 

842.  Rich  Mcbcaroni-pudding, — Simmer  the  macaroni  in 
milk  and  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  new  milk  to  thin 
it ;  and  when  cold,  add  three  beat  yolks  of  eggs.  Season 
with  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  a  little  almond-flower-water 
or  noyeau,  and  sweeten  with  fine  sugar.  A  little  ginger- 
wine  or  lemon- wine  is  an  improvement.  A  layer  of 
orange-marmalade,  or  apricot-jam,  in  the  centre  of  the 
pudding,  is  an  excellent  addition  :  Or,  French  plums, 
stoned  and  plumped,  with  shred  marrow  finely  beat, 
(or  mutton-suet,)  and  sugar,  may  be  placed  in  a  lay  or 


MACAROfa  PUDDING.  481 

orer  the  macaroni.  It  may  be  steamed  or  baked.  Stick 
blanched  almonds,  sliced  longwise,  round  the  edges. 

843.  Parisian  Macaroni-pudding. — Wash  six  ounces  of 
macaroni,  and  simmer  it  in  water  till  tender,  but  not  soft. 
Strain  it;  beat  up  five  yolks,  and  two  whites  of  eggs* 
Stir  into  them  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  half- 
pint  of  sweet  cream.  Mince,  but  not  too  finely,  the 
skinned  breast  of  a  cold  fowl,  and  rather  less  of  dressed 
lean  ham.  Grate  about  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  mince,  and  mix  the  whole  ingredients  well 
together  with  the  macaroni.  Butter  and  fill  a  melon- 
shaped  or  other  pudding-mould,  and  expose  it  to  the  steams 
of  boiling  water  till  thoroughly  done.  Turn  the  pudding 
carefully  out,  and  serve  it  ho^  with  a  strong  clear  gravy 
flavoured  with  onions,  parsley,  and,  if  the  flavour  of  the 
French  cookery  is  admired,  a  little  tarragon. — CHa.  This, 
by  gourmands  of  experience,  is  considered  as  out  of  sight 
the  best  modem  preparation  of  macaroni,  sweetened  dishes 
of  this  paste  being  considered  by  them  as  only  fit  for  boys 
and  women.  But  some  except  our  Sughlio  macaroni. 
More  cheese  may  be  employed. — See  Nos,  567,  600-563, 
which  we  think  better  receipts  than  the  following  night- 
mare-creating cheese-pudding. 

Cheese-pudding,  —  Grate  Cheshire,  or  new  rich  Dunlop, 
or  any  mild  soft  cheese,  in  the  proportion  of  a  half-pound 
to  two  beat  e^^^  with  a  little  oiled  butter,  cream,  and  a 
large  table-spoonful  of  finely-grated  bread.  Bake  in  a 
small  dish  lined  with  pufi^-paste,  or  omit  the  paste,  as  In 
other  puddings,  at  discretion. — Another y  plainer  and  better. 
Grate  the  cheese ;  use  but  one  egg,  and  melt  the  whole 
in  a  small  saucepan  with  milk,  or,  if  for  a  supper-relish, 
ale  or  porter;  use  two  table-spoonfuls  of  finely-sift«d 
cmmbs.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  small  buttered  puddipg- 
dish,  and  brown  it  in  the  Dutch  oven.  Mustard  may  be 
added. 

843.'  Sponge-cake  Pudding,  —  Have  five  fresh  penny 
«ponge-cakes.  Butter  a  mould,  and,  slicing  them,  Une  it  as 
for  bread-and-butter  pudding.  Strew  in  a  layer  of  candied 
citron  or  orange*peel,  cut  in  delicate  strips,  or  of  delicate 
jam ;  then  lay  in  more  slices  of  cake  aud  more  orangs- 

2h 


482  CHAT.  IT. — PASTRT,  PIES,  &C. 

peel;  three  ounces  in  all.  Make  a  caudle  of  fire  well 
beaten  eggs,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  milk,  with 
three  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  the  grate  and  juice  of 
two  lemons,  and  a  large  glassful  of  brandy  or  rum,  mixed 
gradually  that  the  milk  may  not  curdle.  Pour  the  mixture 
oyer  the  cake  in  the  mould.  Cover  and  let  it  soak  for  an 
hour  or  two,  and  boil  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Thb  pud- 
ding may  be  baked;  or  the  cake  may  be  crumbled  down,  and 
it  may  be  made  as  a  bread  pudding.  If  in  a  mould,  a  few 
fine  raisins,  or  small  French  plums  may  be  arranged  at  the 
bottom  to  haye  a  good  effect  when  the  pudding  is  turned 
x>ut. 

844.  Vermicelli-puddikff.  —  Boil  three  ounces  of  soaked 
yermicelli  till  soft,  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk,  with 
-fine  sugar  to  taste,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a  bit  of  lemon- 
.peel.  Stir  in,  when  cold,  the  beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  with 
«two  of  the  whites,  and  bake  the  pudding  in  a  dish  with  a 
»paste-border. 

845.  Cugtard-pudding,  —  Beat  up  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  from  four  to  six  eggs  separately.  Mix  the  yolks  with 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  new  milk  into  which  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  flour  hare  been  rubbed.  Sweeten  the 
mixture  to  taste,  and  add  cinnamon  and  lemon  grate  and 
.juice.  When  just  ready  to  dress,  stir  in  the  beat  whites 
of  the  eggs,  and  a  little  orange-flower- water.  Boil  the 
pudding  for  a  half-hour,  in  a  buttered  basin,  with  a 
jloured  cloth  tied  tightly  over  it ;  or  bake  it  for  twenty- 
minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does  run  in  a  too  hot  oven, 
before  it  has  time  to  8et,  Grate  sugar  over  the  top,  or  put 
bits  (croutons)  of  red  currant-jelly  neatly  round  the  dish. 

846.  Batter-pudding,  —  Mix  three  or  four  ounces  of 
flour  with  a  little  milk,  and  add  a  pint  more  of  milk  to  it. 
Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  to  this,  and 
place  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  constantly  tiU  it  thickens. 
When  cold,  add  the  beat  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  a  little 
ginger  and  grated  lemon-peel.  Boil  in  a  buttered  basin, 
=  and  serve  hot  with  a  sweet  sauce,  or  alone  with  meat.  —^ 

Ohs,  A  little  orange-marmalade  or  conserve  is  a  great 
improvement  to  this  and  to  all  batter  puddings ;  but  not 
if  served  with  meat     Instead  of  wheaten-flour,  pot&td- 


ALUOND  PUDDINQS.  iB8 

flour,  ground  rice,  or  arrow-root  may  be  used,  and  less 
of  it. 

847.  Almond  or  Batctfia  Pudding.  —  Blanch,  cut 
down,  and  beat  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste,  a  half-pound  of 
sweet  and  a  half- ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  with  a 
spoonful  of  orange-flower-water  or  pure  water.  Add  to 
this  paste  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter  melted  in  a  glass 
of  hot  cream,  four  beat  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  a  scrape  of 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  brandy  or  ctara^oa.  Bake  this  in 
small  cups  buttered,  or  in  a  dish,  and  serve  with  a  hot 
sauce  of  wine,  sugar,  and  butter.    See  Nos.  304,  605,  834^* 

848.  Other  Almond-puddings,  —  Beat  half  a  pound  of 
sweet  and  a  few  bitter  almonds  with  a  spoonful  of  rose* 
water.  Then  mix  four  ounces  of  butter  with  two  spoon- 
fuls of  cream  warmed  in  it;  four  eggs,  a  spoonful  of 
brandy,  and  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Butter  some 
jCUps,  half  fill  them,  and  bake  the  puddings.  Serve  on  a 
napkin,  with  sauce  of  butter,  wine,  and  sugar. 

849.  A  baked  Almond  pudding.  —  Beat,  as  above,  si^ 
ounces  of  sweet  and  a  dozen  bitter  almonds,  and^mix 
the  paste  with  the  beat  yolks  of  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of 
butter,  the  grate  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  cream,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Add  sugar  to 
taste,  and  bake  in  a  dish  with  a  neatly-cut  paste-border. 
Ornament  the  top  with  sliced  almonds  or  citron.  This 
pudding,  if  plainer,  is  not  worse,  made  with  two  ounces  of 
bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk. 

850.  Orange-pudding.  • —  To  the  grated  rind  of  a  large 
Seville  orange  put  four  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  six  of 
pounded  fine  sugar.  Beat  this  in  a  mortar,  and  gradually 
add  eight  well-beat  eggs.  Scrape  a  raw  apple  into  the 
mixture,  and  put  it  into  a  dish  lined  with  paste  neatly 
scolloped  on  the  edge.  Cross-bar  it  with  paste-straws,  and 
bake  till  the  paste  is  done.  It  may  have  three  sponge 
biscuits,  soaked  in  milk,  put  to  it. — Ohs.  Less  of  the  above 
mixture  will  do  for  an  ordinary-sized  pudding,  as  this 
high-flavoured  composition  goes  far.  Candied  orange-peel 
beat  to  a  paste  makes  a  fine  pudding  when  used  as 
above. 

851*  Lemon-pudding* — Melt  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and 


4B4  CHAP.  ir. — ^PASTBY,  FIBS,  &C. 

six  ounces  of  fresh  butter  together,  and  when  cold  add 
six  eggs  very  well  beat,  (leaving  out  three  of  the  whites,) 
and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Mix  all  well, 
and  bake  in  a  dish  with  a  puff-paste  border,  neatly  marked 
on  the^dges. 

852.  An  Apph-pudding. — ^Pare  and  grate  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  juicy  apples.  Put  to  them  six  ounces  of 
butter  beat  cold  to  a  cream,  four  beat  eggs,  two  pudding- 
biscuits  pounded,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated,  sugar  to 
taste,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  and  another  of  orange-flower- 
water.  Bake  in  a  puff-paste  marked  in  leaves  round  the 
border,  and  when  done,  strew  candied  lemon  or  orange 
peel  sliced  over  the  top.  —  Obs,  Any  good  sweet  biscuit 
may  be  used,  or  grated  bread.  A  little  lemon-juice  or 
cider  may  be  added  if  the  apples  are  too  mellow. 

853.  A  Swiss  Apple-pudding. — ^Place  alternately  a  layer 
^i  sliced  apples  and  sugar,  with  a  very  thin  layer  of  rusks 
pounded  and  soaked  in  milk.  Finish  with  the  pounded 
rusks,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  the  pudding.  Grate 
sugar  over  it  when  baked. 

854.  The  Manse  Apple-pudding, — ^Pare,  slice,  core,  and 
vtew  a  pound  of  apples  in  a  small  stew-pan,  with  a  stick 
of  cinnamon,  and  two  or  three  cloves.  When  the  apples 
are  soft,  sweeten  them  to  taste.  Pulp  them  through  a 
deve,  and  add  the  beat  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  quarter- 
pound  of  butter,  with  the  grated  peel  and  the  juice  of 
a  lemon.  Mix  the  ingredients  well,  and  boil  or  bake  for 
a  half-hour  in  a  dish  lined  with  puff- paste. 

855.  Nottingham  Apple-pudding. — ^Pare  and  core  six 
large  apples.  Fill  the  hearts  ^ith  moist  sugar  and  a  little 
cinnamon.  Place  them  in  a  pie-dish,  pour  a  light 
batter- pudding,  suitably  seasoned.  Over  them,  and  bake 
till  the  apples  are  ready,  —  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour. 

856.  Apricot,  Peach,  or  Nectarine  Pudding. — Pour  a 
pint  of  hot  cream  over  what  would  fill  a  cup  of  bread- 
crumbs, and  cover  the  jug.  When  cold,  add  the  beat 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  beat  sugar  to 
taste.  Scald,  till  soft,  a  dozen  large  apricots.  Peel  them, 
cut  them,  take  out  the  kernels,  and  poui^d  the  whole  in 


GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING.  485^ 

a  mortar.  Mix  them  with  the  other  ingredients,  and,  lastly, 
the  beat  whites  of  two  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  in  a  diph  with 
a  paste-border.  The  apricots  should  not  be  too  ripe.  This 
may  be  made  an  iced  pudding.     Page  490. 

857.  Goaseherri^-pudding. — Stew  green  gooseberries  till 
tliey  will  pulp  through  a  sieve*  When  cold,  pulp  them, 
and  add  to  them  six  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces  of 
Savoy  biscuit,  pounded  sugar  to  taste,  four  beat  eggs,  and 
a  glass  of  brandy*  Bake  in  a  dish  with  a  paste-border. — 
Ohs,  Excellent  plain  tartlets,  and  small  pasties  or  turn- 
overs, may  be  made  of  this  material, 

858.  Bread  and  Butter^  or  Newmarket  Pudding,-^ 
Boil  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of  good  milk  for  a  few  minutes, 
with  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a 
bay-leaf.  Put  in  fine  sugar  to  taste,  and  as  the  milk  cools 
mix  it  gradually  with  the  well-beat  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
and  three  of  the  whites  separately  beaten.  Let  this  soak, 
and  cut  and  butter  thinly  with  fresh  butter  slices  of  bread 
of  about  a  quarter-inch  thick.  Line  a  pudding^dish  or 
mould  with  the  bread,  and  then  with  a  layer  of  cleaned, 
currants  and  a  few  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  then  again 
bread,  and  then  fruit ;  but  have  the  top  layer  of  buttered 
bread.  Pour  the  prepared  custard  through  a  sieve  over 
this ;  let  it  soak  for  an  hour,  and  bake  or  steam  the  pudding 
for  a  half-hour,  or  more. 

858.^  Another  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding, — Proceed  as 
above,  but  use  layers  of  any  kind  of  rather  thick  jam  instead 
of  currants  and  raisins.  A  few  large  raisins  or  small  French 
plums,  laid  in  order  in  the  bottom  of  the  mould,  and 
dinted  in^  the  bread,  have  a  good  effect  when  the  pudding 
is  turned  out. 

859.  Chancellof^g  or  Cabinet  Pudding^  a  very  delicate 
Pudding,  —  Boil  a  pint  of  cream  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel, 
and  some  fine  sugar,  and  pour  it  hot  over  a  half-pound  of 
crumbled  newly- baked  Savoy  cake  in  a  basin.  Cover 
the  dish.  When  the  cream  is  soaked  up,  add  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  eight  eggs,  separately  well  whisked^  Bake 
the  pudding,  and  serve  with  custard-sauce.  Stoned  dates, 
}^um8,  or  raisins  may  be  added,  and  also  minced  marrow, 
almonds,  and  grated  citron. 

860.  Ginger-Puddings.  —  Season  a  Chancellor's  pudding 


409  CHAP.  IT.— FA6TRT,  TTBSy  &C. 

with  two  ounces  of  green  preflerred  ginger.  Steam  it  in  a 
shape. — Obf.  The  fruit  in  all  these  puddings  should  be  cut 
and  arranged  in  form  round  the  mould,  to  look  well  when 
the  pudding  is  turned  oat. 

861.  New  Ckllege  PtMings, — Beat  six  yollcs  and  three 
whites  of  eggs,  and  mix  them  to  a  smooth  batter  with 
three  heaped  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  ginger,  and  half  a 
nutmeg,  with  pounded  loaf-sugar  to  taste.  Add  four 
ounces  of  shred  suet,  four  of  cleaned  currants,  and  an 
ounce  of  candied  orange-peel  and  citron  sliced.  Bake  in 
patty-pans,  or  fry  these  small  puddings,  making  them  up 
of  an  egg-shape.  Serve  with  pudding-sauce  and  sliced 
lemon.  —  06s.  Bread  crumbs  or  pounded  biscuit  may  be 
used  instead  of  half  the  flour  when  the  pudding  is  to  be 
baked.  For  all  puddings  bread-crumbs  are  much  lighter 
than  flour. 

.  862.  Puddings  tn  hute,  —  Mix  a  little  shred  suet  with 
grated  bread,  a  handful  of  currants,  the  beat  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two.  Add  grated  lemon-peel  and 
ginger.  Mix,  and  roll  this  in  little  balls  (the  size  of  a 
small  egg)  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling 
T^ater,  and  slip  them  in.  When  done  they  will  rise  to  the 
top.     Serve  with  pudding-sauce. 

863.  Northumberland  Puddings.  —  Make  a  thick  batter 
by  boiling  and  sweetening  milk  and  flour.  When  cold 
and  firm,  mash  it  up,  and  add  to  it  four  ounces  of  melted 
butter,  the  same  weight  of  currants,  two  ounces  of -candied 
lemon  and  orange-p^  sliced,  and  a  little  brandy.  Butter 
teacups,  and  bake  the  puddings  in  them  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Turn  them  out  on  a  dish,  and  pour  wine -sauce 
over  them,  if  to  be  eaten  hot.  If  to  make  a  cold  orna- 
mental supper-dish,  omit  the  wine-sauce,  turn  out,  and 
garnish  with  red  currant-jelly. 

864.  Dutch  Pudding,  or  Albany  Cake, — ^Mix  two  pounds, 
or  rather  less,  of  good  flour  with  a  pound  of  butter,  melted 
in  half  a  pint  of  milk.  Add  to  this  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  eight  eggs  separately  beaten,  a  half-pound  of  fine  sifted 
sugar,  a  pound  of  cleaned  currants,  and  a  few  chopped 
almonds,  or  a  little  candied  orange-peel  sliced  fine.  Put 
to  this  four  spoonfuls  of  yeast.      Cover  it  up  for  an  hour 


WELSH  PVDDINO.  487 

or  two,  and  bake  it  for  an  hour  in  a  wide  flattish  dish. 
When  cold  it  eats  well  sliced  as  a  sort  of  cake.* 

865.  A  Welsh  Pudding*  —  Melt  a  half-pound  of  butter 
by  setting  it  in  a  basin  floating  in  hot  wat«r,  and  gradually 
mix  it  with  the  beat  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites  of 
four.  Sweeten  with  fine  pounded  sugar,  and  season  with 
the  grate  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  dish 
with  an  ornamented  paste-border  ;  and  when  ready,  stick 
slices  of  citron  or  candied  orange-peel  round  the  edge. 

865.'  Another  JVelihy  or  Cheese  and  Onion  Pudding  of  high 
^iott^. --Parboil,  skin,  chop,  and  set  as  many  good  onions 
as  you  wish  for  in  a  small  baking-dish,  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  plenty  of  butter.  When  enough  done,  cover  with 
slices  of  Chesliire  or  Dunlop  cheese  toasted.  Serve  very 
hot,. with  toasts.  This  is  an  after-dinner,  or  rather  iR^re- 
supper  dish. 

866.  Potato-flour  Pudding. — Stir  three  or  four  spoon-, 
fuls  of  the  flour  mixed  with  cold  milk,  into  a  quart  of 
hot  milk,  in  which  suitable  seasonings  have  been  boiled, 
as  nutmeg  or  lemon-peel.  Strain  and  sweeten,  add  from 
three  to  Ave  eggs  at  pleasure,  with  wine,  rum,  or  pudding 
conserve.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  will  bake  it  before  the 
fire  in  the  Dutch  oven,  and  there  is  no  great  use  for  wine 
or  rum  seasoning. 

867.  A  George-Adding, — Boil  as  for  rioe-pudding  four 
ounces  of  ground  rice  with  a  roll  of  lemon-peel.  Mix 
this  when  drained  dry  with  the  pulp  of  a  dozen  boiled, 
roasted,  or  baked  apples,  well  beaten.  Add  the  beat 
yolks  of  five  or  six.  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  little 
cinnamon,  with  one  ounce  of  candied  orange  and  citron 
peel  sliced.  Line  and  butter  a  basin  or  mould  with  paste, 
(not  too  thick,)  and  pour  the  pudding  into  it ;  then  gently 
stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  strong  froth. 
Bake  the  pudding  for  more  than  a  half-hour,  and  serve  it 
with  a  caudle-sauce  made  of  wine,  sugar,  the  yolk  of  an 
e^^,  and  a  bit  of  butter. — No.  304. 

868.  Cream  or  Caudle  Sauce  for  Puddings.  —  Sweeten 

*  Thia  was  a  honne  bouche  at  the  substantial  rnral  tea-parties  of  the 
State  of  New  York.  The  feast,  begun  with  fried  eggs  and  bacon, 
ended  with  buck-wheat  and  other  cakes  and  the  above  preparation. 


48d  CHAP.  IV. — ^PASTRY,  PIES,  &C,  . 

thin  cream,  and  season  either  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  of 
lemon-rind,  as  best  Suits  the  pudding.  Boil  the  cream 
with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  rice-flour.  Skink  it 
.  well,  and  keep  it  hot  by  plunging  the  dish  in  hot  water. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  a  glass  of  sweet  wine.  Boil  it 
up,  and  pour  over  the  pudding. — See  pages  276-7,  and  477. 

869.  A  Charlotte,  or  French  Fruit-pudding,  —  The 
preparations  known  here  by  this  name  are  much  admired 
on  the  Continent,  and  particularly  in  France,  where  the 
solid,  lumpy,  and  doughy  English  plum-pudding,*  and 
fat  pie  or  tart  crust,  are  not  so  much  esteemed  as  they  are 
at  home.  —  A  Charlotte  —  a  French,  Fruit-pudding,  a 
Charlotte  Russe,  or  Prussienne,  or  by  whatever  other 
name  it  be  designated,  may  be  made  of  any  kind  of  fruit, 
or  of  a  mixture  of  such  as  blend  well,  as  apricot  and  apple 
marmalade.  Cut  smoothly  slices  of  bread  of  nearly  half 
an  inch  in  thickness.  Butter  them  richly  on  both  sides, 
or  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  and  cover  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  a  buttered  mould  with  them,  cutting  the  bread 
into  dice  or  long  slips,  to  make  the  whole  join  or  dovetail 
compactly.  Fill  up  the  dish  with  apples,  first  stewed  and 
seasoned  as  for  an  apple-pudding,  ISo.  868.  For  the  top, 
soak  slices  of  bread  in  melt«d  butter  and  milk.  Cover 
the  apples  with  these  soaked  slices.  Butter  them  again 
and  keep  them  pressed  down,  while  baking  in  a  quick 
oven,  with 'a  plate  and  a  weight  placed  on  it.  Turn  out, 
brown  with  a  salamander,  and  pour  two  spoonfuls  of 
currant-jelly  melted  in  sherry  over.— 0^.  This,  turned 
out  of  the  shape  when  baked,  is  sometimes  in  Scotland 
called  an  apple-loaf.  Any  kind  of  preserved  or  ripe  fruit 
may  be  used  instead  of  apples,  attending  to  sweetening 
and  seasoning  properly.  A  few  very  thin  slices  of  bread, 
soaked  and  buttered  thus,  make  a  good  crust  to  a  rice  or 
other  pudding.  The  French  Charlottes,  or  iced  puddings^ 
are  of  course  finer  than  ours ;  we  afterwards  give  the  most 
choice  of  their  Iced  Puddings, 

870.  Yorkshire  Pudding  to  hake  under  a  Roast.  —  Mix 

*  We  cannot  say  whether  it  be  in  ignorance  or  irony  that  the  Frene 
persist  in   calling  our  plum-cakes  and  plum-puddings,  plombf  t.  e., 
heavy.     But  pfomb  enough  they  are  sometimes. 


•  YORKSHIRE  PUDDINO.'  481)^ 

fonr  ounces  of  flour  very  smoothly  with  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  milk,  four  beat  eggs,  and  a  little  salt,  and  also 
ginger,  if  liked.  Butt-er  a  shallow  tin  pan ;  pour  the 
batter  into  it,  and  place  it  below  the  roast.  When  settling,; 
stir  up  the  batter ;  and  when  browned  on  the  upper  side, 
turn  over  the  pudding,*  first  drawing  a  knife  round  the 
edges  to  loosen  it.  Bi'own  the  other  side.  It  should  be 
about  an  inch  thick  when  done.  This  is  the  favourite 
English  accompaniment  to  a  sirloin  of  beef,  or  a  loin  of 
veal  or  mutton ;  finely-minced  parsley,  eschalot,  onion, 
and  also  suet  well-beat,  may  be  added.  This  pudding,  if 
for  roast  pork,  should  have  a  little  minced  sage.  It  is 
often  cut  in  strips. 

871.  Potato  Pudding  to  go  below  a  Boast,  —  Peel, 
boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes,  with  a  little  milk,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  finely-shred  onion,  if  approved.  Dish 
and  score  this,  and  set  it  below  the  roast  to  catch  the 
dripping,  and  to  brown.  See  Nos.  19,  866,  and  British 
Tajnocay  No.  840. 

872.  Potato-Pudding,  with  Meat, — Mash  the  potatoes ; 
thin  them  with  milk,  and  season  as  above.  Cut  either 
fat  beef,  mutton,  or  pork,  into  very  small  bits,  and  season 
these  well  with  salt,  pepper,  allspice,  and  shred  onion. 
Place  a  layer  of  meat  at  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish,  then 
potatoes,  and  proceed  thus  till  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  all 
the  potato-batter  that  remains  equally  over  the  top,  and 
stick  some  butter  over  that.  Bake  of  a  fine  brown,  cover-> 
ing  with  paper  to  prevent  scorching.  (See  No.  764.) — Obs, 
This  dish  is  in  no  material  respect  different  from  baked 
Irish  stew.  The  meat  may  be  kept  in  steaks ;  and  the 
pudding  is  then  called  a  Rump-steak  potato-pudding. 
Chicken  or  veal,  with  currie  seasonings,  may  be  dressed  as 
above,  using  a  batter  of  boiled  rice.  A  MuitDn-chop 
pudding  is  also  made  with  potatoes  as  above. 

873.  Kidney-pudding,  or  Dumpling, — Split,  soak,  and 
season  one  or  two  ox-kidneys.  Line  a  basin  with  a  good 
])aste,  made  of  suet,  flour,  and  hot  milk.  Put  in  the  kid- 
neys with  a  little  shred  onion  and  suet,  and  pinch  in  tlie 

*  To  turn  omelets  or  puddings,  butter  a  £ftt  tiu,  or  ste'w-pftn  lid ; 
ivbich  plftc«  over  the  omelet,  and  turn. 


490  CHAP.  IT. — ^PASTRY,  PIES,  &C.  • 

paste ;  coyer  with  a  cloth,  and  boil  for  two  hours.  —  For 
Blood-piMifigs  and  White-puddings^  see  National 
Diihei;  and  French  Cookery  for  several  excellent  meat- 
puddings. 

873.'  Peas-pudding^  see  page  163. 

873.'  Sawsesfor  Puddings^  pp.  276, 277,  and  Nos.  834^'  868.^ 

FASHIONABLE  ICED  PUDDINGS. 

874.  Pine-apple  Iced  Pudding,  d  la  Regale, — Now  that 
pine-apples  are  got  so  cheaply  from  the  West  Indies,  the 
Pouding  d^ Ananas  may  be  tried.  Peel  two  ripe  middle- 
sized  pine-apples,  trimming  off  comers,  and  going  rather 
deep.  Slice  the  flesh  in  quarter-inch  thick  slices,  which 
cut  into  large  dice.  Boil  these  in  six  ounces  of  syrup  for 
ten  minutes ;  cut  the  peel  also  in  dice,  and  boil  it  in  a  pint 
of  boiling  cream.  Let  this  soak  a  few  minutes,  and  add 
six  ounces  of  sugar  and  twelve  yolks  of  beat  eggs ;  thicken 
orer  a  slow  fire,  and  strain  through  a  tammy.  When  tliis 
is  cold,  add  to  it  the  syrup  of  the  pines,  and  freeze  th& 
mixture :  when  frozen,  add  the  pieces  of  fruit,  some  pre- 
senred  cherries,  two  ounces  of  pistachios,  cut  in  strips, 
and  two  fine  pears,  cut  in  large  dice.  Mix  all  up,  and 
freeze  again,  i^ter  which  fill  the  mould,  and  set  it  on  the 
ice.  These  iced  Poudings  may  be  varied  in  many  ways, 
by  substituting  difierent  fruits  and  flavouring  ing;re- 
dients. 

874.'  Parisian  Iced  Apple-pudding. — ^Peel,  quarter,  and 
core  two  dozen  of  pippins,  and  make  them  into  a  marmalade ; 
add  to  them  a  pot  of  apricot  jam,  eight  ounces  of  sugar, 
rubbed  on  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange.  Rub  all  through  a 
tammy,  and  freeze;  then  mix  in  a  pot  of  preserved  cherries, 
drained  from  the  syrup ;  four  ounces  of  the  best  raisins, 
stoned,  washed,  and  stewed  in  syrup ;  with  an  ounce  of 
fresh  citron-peel,  cut  in  dice,  and  two  ounces  of  pistachio^ 
nuts,  also  in  dice.  Add  a  quarter  pint  of  Maraschino,  and 
as  much  Cura^oa  ;  mix  the  whole,  and  freeze  again,  and 
add  twoplatefuls  of  whipt  cream,  or  as  much  as  the  pre- 
paration wiU  require.  Freeze  once  more  ;  fill  the  mould  ; 
plunge  it  into  the  ice-pot,  which  work  with  the  handle,  to 
mingle  the  frozen  and  unfrozen  parts,  till  all  are  frozen 
equally.     Serve  it,  turned  out  upon  a  neatly-folded  nap- 


VASSIOMABLS  ICXD  PUDDIKOS.  491 

kin,  and  send  to  table  iced  whipt  cream  in  a  sauce  tureen, 
or  glass  dish,  as  sauce  for  the  pudding. 

874.*  Ckurktte  Frussienne. — ^Put  jelly,  flavoured  with 
Maraschino,  and  coloured  with  cochineal,  into  a  plain  dome- 
shaped  mould,  till  it  be  a  half-inch  deep.  Place  it  upon 
the  ice  ;  line  the  sides  of  the  mould  with  Savoy  biscuits, 
and  fill  the  void  with  a  jelly  made  thus : — An  ounce  and 
a>half  or  two  ounces  of  isinglass,  dissolved  in  half  a-pint 
of  water,  to  which  is  put  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  five 
ounces  of  sugar,  pounded.  Boil  till  reduced  one-half ; 
skim,  and  pass  through  a  tammy,  and,  when  cold,  add  a 
quarter  pint  of  Maraschino,  and  two  glasses  of  brandy. 
Put  the  mould  in  the  ice-pot,  and,  as  the  composition 
begins  to  freeze,  add  a  pint  of  well-whipt  cream.  The 
biscuits  must  be  cut  and  placed,  or  built  up,  in  neat  order, 
and  made  fast  with  jelly.  A  variety  of  Cha^ldUes  are 
thus  made,  varying  the  fruits  and  liqueurs;  as  of  ripe 
strawberries,  or  of  difi^rent  coloured  fruits  en  Mosaic. 
874.^  Caremes  Nesselrode  Pudding. — ^This  pudding  is  made 
in  the  same  way  as  other  iced  puddings,  substituting  forty 
cooked  chestnuts,  pounded  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  with 
a  little  syrup,  flavoured  with  vanilla ;  put  to  this  a  pint  of 
syrup  and  one  of  cream  with  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs. 
Thicken  over  the  fire  ;  pass  through  a  tammy,  and,  when 
cold,  freeze  the  mixture,  to  which  add  candied  citron, 
raisins,  and  currants,  previously  soaked  in  Maraschino, 
and  a  glass  of  that  liqueur.  When  freezed  a  little,  fill  a 
mould ;  set  it  in  the  ice-pot,  and  proceed  as  usual.  The 
mould  should  be  a  pine-apple  l^ape.  Add  sugar,  pounded 
with  vanilla,  a  plateful  of  whipt  cream,  three  whipt  whites 
of  eggs,  and  freeze  again.* 

MEAT-FUDDINOS,  POTATO-PASTIBS,  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

These  excellent  every-day  dishes  we   consider  of  far 

*  Freezing-pots  are  made  in  England  of  various  constructions; 
with  handles  and  nniddles,  which  easily  remove  the  parts  which  freeze 
upon  the  sides  of  tne  pot  or  mould,  and  these,  making  the  entire  mass 
congeal  equally,  entirely  supersede  the  rocking  and  shaking  prescribed 
by  M.  Careme,  and  answer  the  purpose  much  better.  For  a  very  in- 
genious and  useful  freezing  apparatus,  Mr.  Peter  (^ray  of  North  Ha- 
nover Street,  Edinbuigh,  latelv  took  out  a  patent.  lliis  freezing-pot, 
we  have  been  assured,  is  worth  the  attention  of  those  who  frequently 
require  to  mould  and  to  ice  creams,  jellies,  and  puddings. 


402  CHAP.  IT. — PASTRY,  PIES^  &C.' 

more  importance  than  all  the  GaUantineg  and  Pieces  MbntSi' 
of  the  French  kitchen.  If  they  do  not  helong  to  the  highest 
style  of  cookery,  the  combination  of  savouriness  with  eco- 
nomy adapts  them  to  all  tastes  and  classes.  To  commence, 
we  give  a  general  receipt  for  meat-puddings,  which  may 
easily  be  modified  to  suit  every  palate  and  purse. 

876.  Rump-steak  Pudding, — Flatten  steaks,  cut  much 
smaller  and  thinner  than  for  broiling ;  season  each  with 
mixed  seasonings,  as  pie-meat.     Have  an  earthenware  basin 
or  mould,  which  line  with  thin  suet-paste,  or  demi-puff-paste^ 
^ which  shall  overlap  the  ledge ;  lay  in  the  meat,  with  a 
very  little  chopped  onion  or  eschalot,  if  you  like.    When 
filled  with  steaks,  put  in  a  wine-glassful  of  water,  to 
which,  if  you  have  used  no  cayenne  or  onion,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  eschalot  or  cayenne  vinegar  may  be  added,  and  a 
Jittle  catsup.    Turn  up  the  overhanging  paste ;  wet  it,  and 
lay  on  the  cover,  which  should  be  of  thicker  paste  than 
the  lining.    Tie  up  the  mould  or  basin  in  a  doth,  and 
place  it  standing  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  as  in  boiling 
other  puddings ;  keep  up  the  boil  for  three  hours,  adding 
boiling  water  as  wanted ;  or  for  four  hours,  if  a  three-pound 
pudding.     Probe  with  a  packing-needle,  to  see  if  it  is 
tender.     When  so,  take  it  up,  untie  the  cloth,  wipe  th< 
mould  or  basin,  and  have  a  finer  outer  case  to  serve  it  in, 
or  a  napkin— or  what  we  call  **a  pie-dish  jacket"  — to 
pin  round  it.    It  will  require  no  gravy,  as  its  own,  com- 
pletely preserved,  will  be  sufficient.     By  the  above  plan  of 
serving,  a  lighter  pudding  is  obtained  than  if  the  whole 
paste  were  made  so  thick  a9  to  turn  out  in  the  usual  way* 
If  wanted  to  turn  out,  proceed  as  above ;  but  butter  the 
mould,  line  it  with  a  substantial  crust,  and  when  served 
carve  the  pudding  in  horizontal  slices. — Ohs»  These  puddings 
may  be  made  fatter  by  suet,  and  also  enriched  with  several 
ingredients,  as  mushrooms,  oysters,  &c.    The  same  sort  of 
pudding  may  be  made  of  mutton  or  lamb-chops,  not  too 
fat,  or  of  cold  dressed  mutton,  and  the  crust  may  be  made 
economically,  of  half-suet,  half- dripping.     This  mode  of 
cookery,  like  our  No.  766,  is  found  peculiarly  convenient 
in  "  The  Bush,"  in  Upper  Canada,  and  Australia,  where 
culinary  appliances  are  deficient,  and  where  men  weary  of 
always  pork,  mutton,  and  "  damper, ^^ 


P0TAT0-PA8TT.  403 

87o."  Potato-Pasty. —  This  favourite  preparation,  like 
meat-puddings,  curries,  small  pies^  and  nicely-dressed  small 
savoury  dishes  of  cold  cooked  meat,  we  hold  in  especial  esteem 
for  its  use  in  respectable  families  in  middle  life,  where  a 
limited  income  does  not  preclude  the  nice  cookery  which 
costs  nothing  save  a  little  (agreeable)  trouble,  and  adds  so 
much  to  domestic  comfort.     Tin-moulds,  for  potato-pasty, 
are  sold  at  the  iron-mongers'  shops,  like  other  moulds.   The 
pasty  may  be  made  of  beef,  mutton,  veal,  pork,  game,  fish ; 
and,  in  brief,  whatever  may  be  dressed  as  a  savoury  pie 
will  answer  equally  well  for  a  potato-pasty,  and  whether 
raw  or  previously  cooked.    Have  from  two  to  three  pounds 
of  the  material ;  cut,  trim,  season,  and  lay  it  in  the  mould, 
as  if  making  a  pie  or  meat-pudding.    A  little  more  fat 
may  be  used  with  potato  than  with  flour- paste  or  rice. 
Add  water  or  gravy,  cayenne  and  catsup,  or  whatever  kind 
of  seasoning  is  best  adapted  to  the  meat  used,  at  discretion ; 
also  mushrooms,  catsup,  or  currie-powder,  with  veal,  and 
with  fish  a  little  Harvey.     Put  the  tin  perforated  cover 
down  into  the  mould,  and  upon  it,  to  the  thickness  of  three  or 
four  inches,  and  rising  conically,  heap  potatoes  mashed  with 
milk  and  a  good  bit  of  butter,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  and  for  beef  or  mutton,  with  a  shred  onion,  if  you  like, — 
Scottish  fashion,    Mark  the  paste  neatly,  and  press  some  of . 
the  mash  with  a  spoon  through  a  colander,  to  form  a  sort<9f 
fretted  or  coral  work  on  the  surface,  over  which  it  is  a 
great  improvement  to  stick  lightly  small  bits  of  butter. 
If  the  potatoes  are  in  danger  of  being  too  much  done  be- 
fore the  meat  is  enough,  the  cover  need  not  be  put  on  the 
mould  till  the  meat  is  partly  cooked.     Bake  as  long  as 
an  ordinary  pie  of  the  same  size,  and  serve  with  a  napkin 
(or  one  of  the  fancy  ^  pie-dish  jackets"  that  ladies  knit) 
round   the   mould.     The  frame   or  cover  must   not   be 
removed  till  the  pasty  is  served,  when  it  is  placed  on 
another  dish;  as  the  potato-crust,  we  need  not  say,  might 
break  or  crumble.    Four  pounds  of  potatoes,  at  least,  will 
be  required  for  the  mash,  and,  if  any  of  it  is  left,  it  may 
either  be  placed  in  balls  round  the  ledge,  or  usefully  served 
in  slices,  balls,  or  scallops.  Cold  mashed  potatoes  of  a  former 
•4lay  are  quite  as  good  for  pasty  as  those  freshly  mashed* 


404  CHAP.  lY, — PASTRY,  PIES,  SlC, 

The  advantage  of  the  potato-pasty  pan  over  ordinary 
xnodeSy  lies  in  the  steams  of  the  meat  ascending  to  the 
mashed  potatoes  through  the  perforated  cover,  and  that  a 
well-looking  rich  crust  b  thus  ohtained.  After  all,  it  is 
not  much  superior  to  the  old  way  of  dressing  a  thick 
border  and  balls  in  a  dish;  browning  these,  and  then 
putting  in  any  prepared  hash  or  stew.  Undressed  meat, 
to  be  plainly  served  as  potato-pasty,  may  be  half-baked,  or 
rather  more,  and  then  covered  with  mashed  potatoes,  over 
which  a  large  old  dish-cover  may  be  turned,  and  only 
taken  off  to  allow  the  crust  time  to  brown  before  serving. 

DUMPLINOS. 

Dumplings  are  made  of  all  sorts  of  fruit,  either  fresh  or 
preserved,  and  also  of  meat  and  other  things.  They  are 
convenient,  and  sometimes  economical,  though  not  parti- 
cularly elegant,  and  far  from  being  of  easy  digestion.  The 
boiled  paste  of  dumplings  is  dough  in  its  heaviest  form  ; 
yeast  will  lighten  it  and  save  eggs.  If  yeast  is  used,  the 
dough  must  stand  a  little  to  rise. — Buy  bakers'  dough. 

876.  Suet  dumplings, — Chop  from  four  to  eight  ounces  of 
suet  fine,  and  take  double  the  weight  of  flour  and  grated 
bread.  Beat  two  or  three  eggs  with  a  glassful  of  milk* 
Mix  all  well  together,  and  put  a  little  salt  and  allspice  to 
the  mixture.  Work  it  up  into  the  shape  of  large  eggs, 
and  tie  each  up  separately  in  a  pudding-doth  dredged 
with  flour.  Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  These  are 
eaten  hot  along  with  meat,  -or  alone  with  butter  and 
vinegar.  Made  small,  they  are  called  dough^nutSy  and  may 
be  boiled  thirty-five  minutes. 

876."  Plum^  Apphj  Curraniy  Easpherry-Jamy  Straw- 
berry-uTam,  Gooeeherry  or  Damson  Dumpling* — Line  a 
tin  basin  with  a  plain  crust,  and  fill  with  the  fruit,  either 
preserved,  or  prepared  as  for  pies  and  puddings.  Pinch 
in  the  paste,  tie  a  floured  cloth  over  the  basin,  and  boil 
from  two  to  three  hours,  and  turn  it  out :  —  Or,  roll  the 
paste  out  long,  spread  the  fruit  over  it,  then  roll  up  as  .a 
collar,  tie  in  a  cloth  at  both  ends,  and  boil. 

876.'  NfSt  or  Crochet  Dumplings. — Ladies  ingeniously 
knit  net  or  crochet  cases  in  which  to  boil  dumplings, 
which  give  them  at  table  the  appearance  of  being  carved* 


DUMPLINGS— PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS.  405 

What  is  called  '^  round  netting"  and  Fancy  netting,  has, 
we  think,  the  hest  efiect,  though  the  case  may  be  of  fifty 
stitches ;  only  let  the  thread  be  tongh,  and  rather  coarse. 
This  refinement  is  appropriate  to  fruit  dumplings  ;  suet 
ones  being  homely  unpretending  affairs. 

877*  Norfolk  Dumplings^ — Make  a  very  stiff  batter  with 
a  pound  of  flour,  a  little  milk,  three  eggs,  and  salt. 
Work  this  up  into  balls  of  the  size  of  small  turkey  eggs, 
roll  them  in  flour,  and  boil  in  water,  or  along  with  meat^ 
thirty  minutes :  or  drop  the  batter  from  a  spoon  into  water 
that  boils  fast,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  ;  drain,  and  serve 
them  hot.  Currants  and  sweet  spices  may  be  mixed  in 
with  suet  or  batter  dumplings. 

PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 

These  articles  make  an  economical  and  genteel  addition 
to  small  dinners,  and  have  the  advantage  of  being  quickly 
forthcoming  upon  any  emergency. 

878.  Common  Pancakes, — ^Beat  from  four  to  eight  eggs, 
according  to  the  number  of  pancakes  wanted,  and  put  in 
^  spoonful  of  flour  for  every  e^^^  with  sugar,  ginger,  and 
a  little  nutmeg.  Stir  in  milk  enough  to  reduce  this  to  a 
thick  batter.  Make  a  small  frying-pan  hot,  melt  a  little 
butter  in  it,  pour  it  out,  and  wipe  the  pan ;  or  rub  it  with 
'a  buttered  cloth.  Put  in  a  very  small  piece  of  butter,  and 
-when  it  froths,  a  ladleful  of  batter :  toss  round  the  pan  to 
diffuse  this  equally.  Run  a  knife  round  the  edges,  and 
turn  the  pancake.  Brown  very  lightly  on  both  sides, 
rdouble  the  pancakes  up  to  keep  hot,  or  roll  them  lightly 
up  as  a  collar.    Serve  a  few  at  a  time,  hot  and  hot,  witibi 

•grated  sugar  and  sliced  lemon,  lliey  are  good  cold,  but 
should  then  be  thick,  have  some  preserve  in  them,  and  be 
cut  as  sweet  sandwiches. 

879.  Fine  Pancakes, — Beat  six  eggs,  add  a  pint  of  cream, 
.  and  three  ounces  of  batter,  if  they  are  wanted  rich.  Sweeten 
with  sugar,  and  season  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  or  lemon, 
as  is  most  agreeable.  Sift  sugar  over  them  as  they  are 
fried,  and  serve  with  a  cut  lemon,  to  be  squeezed  over 
them  when  helped  at  table.* 

*  In  the  Clsikum,  and  probably  in  some  other  old-fashioned  innt 
and  Scottish  fiunilies,  pancakes  were  wont  to  be  served  with  a  layer  ot 


^DO  CUAP.  IV. ^PASTRT,  P1B8,  &C. 

880.  Irish  Pancakes.  —  These  are  made  as  above,  with 
more  flour  and  sugar. 

881.  Bice-pancakes  or  Fritters,  —  Boil  four  ounces  of 
rice-flour  in  a  quart  of  cream,  or  very  good  milk,  till  it  is 
as  thick  as  pap.  Stir  in  a  quarter-pound  of  sugar.  When 
cold  mix  four  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  eight 
beat  eggs  thoroughly  together.  If  not  stifle  enough,  add 
more  flour  and  sugar,  and  fry  the  batter  either  as  fritters 
or  pancakes.  Serve  with  a  little  melted  butter,  wine,  and 
-sugar,  poured  into  the  dish. 

882.  French  Frying  Baxter  for  plain  Fritters  of  Fruity 
and  for  frying  Vegetables.  —  Mix  with  a  half-pint  of 
milk  and  water  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  into  it  mb 
smoothly,  working  it  long,  ten  ounces  of  flour.  When  to 
be  used  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  whisked  te  a  stiff 
froth,  and  use  it  quickly  that  the  batter  may  be  light. 
The  batter  may  be  seasoned,  if  for  vegetables,  or  sweet^ 
ened  if  for  fruit.  English  BaUer,  —  Put  a  half-pound  of 
jsifted  flour  into  a  dish,  with  salt,  a  little  melted  butter, 
and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Moisten  and  work  up  this 
with  worts,  or  fresh  yeasty  beer,  till  it  is  of  proper  consis- 
tence. Have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  whipt,  and  work 
.them  into  the  paste,  which  should  be  made  hours  before  it 
is  used.  Water,  brandy,  or  wine  may  be  used  instead  of 
beer :  milk  is  often  used.  Top-pot  fat  makes  the  best 
frying  material  for  plain  fritters,  and  next  te  it  the  soft 
kidney-fat  of  beef,  or  dripping. 

883.  Oood  plain  Fritters. — Stir  minced  apples  rolled  in 
sugar  with  a  little  flnely-shred  suet  into  stifiP  pancake- 
batter  or  fritter-batter,  as  above-described.  Drop  this  in 
proper  quantities  (a  large  spoonful)  into  boiling  dripping, 
and  fry  the  fritters;  or  a  few  picked  currants  may  be 
stirred  into  the  batter,  and  dropped  in  spoonfuls  into  the 
boiling  dripping.  Serve  on  a  napkin,  with  sugar  grat«d 
over  them. 

884.  Apple f  Apricoty  and  Peach  fritters.  —  Put  a  little 

currant-jelly  between  the  folds,  —  a  practice  for  which  much  miffht  b« 
said  by  those  familiar  with  it.  Is  not  this  the  omelette  a  la  Cweatine, 
or  <iu  confiture^  of  our  old  allies,  still  lingering  in  remote  places  of  the 
country?  Pancakes  are  still  better  with  apricot-marmalade. — P.  T. 


INDIAN  MEAL  FRITTBBS.  497 

additional  flour  to  common  pancake-batter.  Pare,  stone, 
and  divide  the  peaches  and  apricots.  Peel,  slice,  and 
core  large  apples ;  *  dip  them  in  this  thick  pancake- 
batter,  or  fry  them  in  French  batter.  Drain  and  dish 
them  neatly  above  each  other,  and  grate  sugar  over 
them ;  or  drop  batter  into  the  boiling  fat  in  the  frying-pan, 
then  a  slice  of  apple,  and  drop  more  batter  over  thaL  — 
Ohs.  Fritters  may  be  made  of  ripe  or  preserved  fruits  of 
all  kinds,  and  are  then  called  Italian  fritters.  The  batter 
may  be  seasoned  with  wine,  brandy,  &c.  Whole  apples 
may  be  pared,  cored,  and  baked,  then  dipped  in  batter, 
and  fried  as  fritters,  &c.  The  fritters  will  be  best  done 
if  the  apples  are  previously  half-cooked,  but  have  most 
flavour  if  they  are  raw.  —  See  Patato-fiitterSy  No.  227.— 
Oyster-frittersy  No.  183. 

884.' — ^INDIAN   HEAL    FRITTERS,  DUMPLINGS,  &C, 

Indian  Meal  Fritters  and  Pancakes,  —  Beat  four  eggs 
very  well,  and  mix  with  a  pint  of  milk,  into  which  stir 
gradually  ten  spoonfuls  of  Indian  meal.  Work  the 
mixture  well  till  it  is  a  smooth  batter,  when  drop  a 
ladleful  at  a  time  into  half  a  pound  of  boiling  lard  in  a 
deep  frying-pan.  .  Lift  out  the  fritters,  when  done,  one  by 
one  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  drain  and  serve  hot  and 
hot.  More  lard  may  be  required,  and  the  fritters  must  be  care- 
fully kept  separate  in  the  frying  fat.  The  above  batter  will 
make  pancakes  of  Indian  meal,  in  the  usual  way.  Serve 
with  butter,  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  white  wine.  A 
amaller  kind  of  fritters  is  called  Cam  Oysters,  Indian 
Flappers  are  pancakes,  with  fewer  eggs,  and  baked  on  the 
ffirdle.  Slap- Jacks  are  also  nearly  the  same  ;  but  the  batter 
IS  prepared  several  hours  beforehand,  and  a  little  soda  is 
mixed  with  warm  water,  and  the  batter  rubbed  with  this  be- 
fore being  fried  for  breakfast.  Indian  meal  suet  dumplings 
are  made  almost  like  flour  dumplings,  but  the  suet  must 
be  well  dredged  with  flour  to  prevent  it  from  getting  into 
lumps  when  boiled.  Mix  the  floured  suet  with  Indian 
meal.     Throw  in  a  little  salt,  and  add  milk  enough  to 

*  French  cooks  steep  rennets  for  fritters  in  brandy  and  cinnamon,  or 
fiome  liqaear,  before  dipping  them  in  the  batter.  They  make  fritters  of 
all  sorts  of  fmits,  first  Kalf-baking  the  cored  apples  or  apricots. 

2i      _ 


498  CHAP.  T. — OOKFECnONART. 

make  the  mass  a  stiff  doagh.  JCnead  this  well,  diyide  it 
into  dumplings  the  size  of  an  orange.  Flatten  the  balls 
with  a  rolling-pin,  and  beat  them  to  make  them  light. 
Tie  up  in  separate  cloths,  tearing  room  to  swell  and  bcnl 
88  usual.  They  are  eaten  with  boiled  meat,  fresh  or 
salted,  or  along  with  sugar  or  treacle.  Boiled  and  baked 
Indian  puddings  are  made  of  the  aboTe  fritter-batter,  add- 
ing picked  currants,  and  raisins  stoned  and  cut.  They  are 
cooked  like  our  plum-pudding,  and  eaten  with  puddings 
sauce. 

Polenta, — WhenmiMA,  of  Indian  meal,  is  nearly  cooked, 
turn  it  into  a  buttered  shallow  baking-dish,  and,  for  eyery 
half-pound,  stir  in  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese.  Stir  it  well^ 
and  bake  for  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. — See  p.  248. 


CHAPTER  V. 

CREAMS,  JKLUTES,  SWEET  DISHES,  PRESARVES,  AND  ORNAMENTAL 

CONFECTIONARY. 

Make  your  transparent  Sweetmeats  traly  nice, 
With  Indian  sugar  and  Arabian  spice; 
And  let  your  various  Creams  enriched  be 
With  welling  fruit  just  ravishM  from  the  tree. 

Dr.  K.INO. 

Where  there  is  a  good  confectioner  at  hand,  it  will  in 
general  be  not  only  more  convenient,  but  as  cheap,  to  pur- 
chase the  greater  part  of  the  smaller  articles  used  for 
desserts  and  suppers,  as  wafers,  little  souffle  cakes,  houckAes 
des  dames,  and  the  many  fanciful  trifles  made  of  brioche, 
paste-royal,  and  sugar.  Even  moulded  creams,  jellies,  iced 
puddings,  and  preserved  fruits  of  the  finer  kinds,  where  they 
are  not  often  used,  will  be  obtained  as  cheap,  and  in  much 
better  style  than  they  can  be  prepared  in  small  families. 
But  this  department  of  the  culinary  art,  besides  affording 
a  pleasiilg  variety  to  the  domestic  business  of  ladies,  often 
in  the  country  becomes  a  necessary  branch  of  knowledge. 
We  have  therefore  given  a  copious  selection  of  Receipts 
in  Ornamental  Confectionary,  according  to  modern  and 
fashionable  practice. 


CONFBCnOKART.  499 

Beginners  in  confectionary,  as  in  cookery,  are  often  at 
a  loss  to  know  how  much  of  a  receipt  must  be  followed 
according  to  the  letter,  and  how  much  is  to  be  understood 
in  the  spirit  only.  Like  the  Malade  Imagmairej  when 
ordered  to  walk  across  the  room,  they  are  miserable  from 
not  knowing  whether  to  take  the  breadth  or  the  length 
of  it.  In  general  this  is  of  small  consequence,  provided 
they  do  walk  either  way. 

ICES,  CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &C« 

Creams  are  either  shaped  in  a  mould,  and  turned  out, 
and  garnished  either  with  jelly  of  a  contrasting  colour,  as 
a  little  white,  or  pale  rose-colour,  with  amber,  or  ruby- 
red  jellies,  or  with  preserved  angelica,  preserved  cherries, 
or  sprigs  of  myrtle,  heaths,  or  other  flowers ;  or  served 
plain  in  a  glass  dish,  or  in  little  glass  cups.  For  creams 
and  jellies  moulded,  freezing  is  necessary,  if  you  would 
make  sure  of  having  the  shape  fine  and  entire  ;  so  always 
freeze  if  in  your  power.  If  too  rich  in  syrup,  cream- 
jellies  will  not  freeze.  If  too  watery,  they  will  «^  in  a 
kind  of  half-dissolved  ice.  It  is  a  good  method  to  freeze 
the  mixture  so  far  before  filling  the  moulds.  Isinglass  or 
gelatine  must  also  be  put  in  considerable  quantity  to  all 
things  of  this  kind  that  are  made  in  shapes ;  but  if  served 
in  a  dish  or  little  cups,  only  eggs  are  used,  and  no  isinglass. 
Melt  slowly,  in  a  little  water,  the  isinglass  to  be  used  ;  and 
after  adding  it,  try  a  little  of  your  cream  or  jelly  in  a  small 
shape  or  cup,  to  see  if  it  be  strong  enough  to  take  and  keep 
a  shape.  Moulds  of  pewter  or  tin  give  rec^  jellies  a  bad  colour. 

All  creams  are  made  nearly  in  the  same  manner,  the 
chief  difference  arisiug  from  the  flavouring  ingredient, 
which  generally  gives  the  name,  as  pine-apple,  coffee,  choco- 
late, pistachio,  or  vanilla  cream.  Th(Aigh  creams  certainly 
look  handsomer  when  moulded  and  iced,  they  are  not  better 
than  when  served  in  glass  cups,  from  the  greater  quantity 
of  isinglass  in  them. 

The  yolk  of  one  fresh  eg^  to  every  cupful  is  a  good  rule 
in  making  creams  and  custards  to  be  served  in  cups,  but 
many  more  are  often  used. for  moulds.  A  little  grated 
nutmeg,  or  cinnamon,  may  be  sprinkled  over  creams 
served  in  cups.    The  exact  quantity  of  isinglass  necessary 


600  CHAP.  V.-*0]Uf  AMENTAL  DISHBS,  &C. 

can  only  be  known  by  experiment  at  the  time  of  making 
the  cream,  this  commod ity  varies  so  much  in  strength.  For 
a  large  mould  the  material  must  be  stiffer,  to  keep  shape, 
than  for  a  small  one,  especially  if  you  hare  no  ice. 

885.  Directions  for  Freezing  Creams  and  Jellies.— 
There  are  various  ways  of  procuring  ice  ;  the  cheapest  is 
to  buy  it  of  Nature's  making,  and  to  have  the  necessary 
apparatus  for  preserving  it  after  you  have  got  it.  Break 
the  ice  in  a  proper  ice-bucket,  and  strew  a  handful  of  salt 
amongst  it.  Take  it  from  the  sides  occasionally.  Place 
your  mould  in  the  ice-pot,  which  set  amidst  the  ice,  but  take 
care  that  the  cream  or  jelly  be  quite  cold,  else  it  will  melt 
the  ice  instead  of  being  frozen  itself.  Ice-tubs  are,  we 
venture  to  think,  not  of  sufficient  diameter,  to  admit  a 
large  enough  body  of  surrounding  ice.  They  are  well 
below  and  above,  but  have  not  enough  of  space  for  ice  all 
around.  We  need  give  no  farther  directions,  as  those  who 
purchase  an  apparatus  are  taught  the  use  of  it.  Let 
your  ci'eam  or  jelly  remain  till  wanted  for  the  table.  Then 
dip  a  towel  in  hot  water,  and  rub  it  quickly  round  the 
mould,  to  detach  it,  and  turn  carefully  upside  down.  You 
must  use  a  towel  dipped  in  hot  water  to  turn  out  every 
thing  made  in  a  mould,  (as  puddings,  &c.)  whether  iced 
or  hot. — Obs,  Several  ices,  if  left,  by  the  addition  of  ram 
or  brandy  will  make  very  agreeable  sorts  of  beverages,  and 
so  will  the  thick  part  left  in  running  jellies  through  the 
jelly-bag: — See  Punch  de  la  Romaine,    See  No.  900. 

886.  Italian  Cream, — Take  two  parts  of  sweet  cream 
and  one  of  milk,  about  a  quart  in  all.  Boil  this,  and 
infuse  in  it  four  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  or  enough  to  sweeten 
sufficiently,  which  is  the  only  rule  in  using  sugar,  and  the 
thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  or  two  if  small.  When  flavoui-ed, 
add  the  beat  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  beat  the  whole  well. 
Set  it  on  the  fire  to  thicken ;  and  when  this  is  done,  put 
in  a  little  strained  melted  isinglass,  about  a  half-ounce^ 
(more  afterwards,  if  necessary;)  whip  it  well;  strain  it 
tlirough  a  lawn-sieve,  and  try  a  little  in  a  small  mould, 
before  filling  the  mould.     Put  it  on  the  ice. 

887»  Italian  Creamy  another  way, — Whisk  up  a  pint,  oif 
irather  more,  of  the  richest  cream,  the  yellow  rind  of  tf 


CRBA.1IS.  fiOl 

lemon  rubbed  off,  with  sugar,  the  juice  of  the' lemon,  and 
more  fine  sifted  sugar  to  sweeten  the  cream  to  taste.  Put 
to  this,  when  well  whisked,  an  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved 
hy  boiling-hot  water,  and  strained.  Beat  these  together 
well,  and  season  with  noyeau,  or  Cura9oa,  if  liked.  Fill 
the  shape,  and  when  freezed,  turn  out  and  garnish  accor- 
ding to  fancy. — Obs.  This,  with  little  variation,  is  the 
preparation  called  Italian  Cheese,  Italian  creams  are  in 
reality  Lemon  creams, 

888.  Cringer-cream^  an  elegant  Cream, — Four  ounces  of 
preserved  ginger  sliced  fine  ;  three  spoonfuls  of  the  syrup  ; 
five  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  pint  and  quarter  of  cream, 
imperial  measure.  Boil  and  whisk  till  cold.  If  sugar  is 
wanted,  add  the  finest,  then  isinglass  ;  freeze  the  cream. 
This  may  also  be  flavoured  with  a  strong  tincture  of  ginger, 
which  is  less  expensive  and  very  good,  and  it  may  be 
served  in  cups. 

889.  Vanilla  Cream, — Vanilla  in  this  country  is  often 
of  bad  quality.  From  being  comparatively  little  used  it 
lies  long  in  the  warehouses,  and  becomes  musty.  For 
cream,  boil  a  pod  and  a  half  of  Vanilla  in  three  pints  of 
gooi  milk.  Let  this  reduce  in  a  slow  heat  one-sixth, 
adding  to  it  ten  ounces  of  sugar,  and  a  grain  of  salt.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  to  which  gradually  add  tlie  Vanilla- 
flavoured,  sweetened  milk.  Set  the  mixture  over  a  slow 
heat,  stirring  constantly,  till,  when  perfectly  smooth,  it 
adheres  to  the  back  of  the  spoon.  Rub  it  through  a 
tammy,  and  when  cool  add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  purified 
melted  isinglass.  Rub  a  columnar  mould — now  the 
fashionable  shape — with  almond  oil  or  fresh  butter.  Set  it 
in  ice,  and  when  wanted,  turn  out  into  the  usual  8oi*t  of 
glass  dish  used  for  all  moulded  creams  and  jellies,  but  in 
the  manner  directed  for  turning  out  blancmange.  Orange- 
flower  water  added  to  the  mixture  when  thickening  makes 
this  a  fine  cream  ;  and  an  infusion  of  fresh  orange-flowers, 
when  these  can  be  got,  are  yet  more  delicate. 

890.  Whipt  Coffee-cream, — Infuse  two  ounces  of  coffee, 
so  as  to  have  a  breakfast-cupful  of  a  strong  tincture. 
Whip  a  quart  of  sweetened  cream,  and  lay  aside  the  froth 
as  it  rises  on  a  sieve  reversed,  to  drain.    Add  the  white  of 


602  CHIP,  r.— ORNAMENTAL  DISHXS,  &C. 

an  egg  if  it  will  not  rise  welL  Boil  the  remaining  cream, 
and  put  it  to  the  beat  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  the 
clear  coffee-tinctare.  Serre  it  in  a  glass  dish  and  the 
whip  over  it. 

N.  B. — ^Whips  will  be  more  easily  made  if  the  creamy 
where  convenient,  is  whisked  over  ice. 

891.  Coffee-eream,  —  Have  a  pint  of  clear  jelly  of 
calves'  feet  free  of  blacks  and  fat.  Clear  a  large  cupful 
of  strong  cofiPee  with  isinglass  till  bright  and  deeply  brown. 
Mix  it  with  the  jelly;  add  a  pint  of  good  cream  and  fine 
sugar  to  taste ;  and  after  mixing  well,  boil  up  for  a  few 
minutes  till  you  have  a  weak  jeUy.  This  is  an  easily- 
made  and  favourite  cream* 

892.  Ratafla-eream. — ^Mix  a  quarter -pint  of  ratafia  or 
noyeau  with  the  same  quantity  of  mountain-wine,  sugar 
to  taste,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  of  a  Seville  orange. 
Whisk  this  with  a  pint  of  good  cream,  adding  more  sugar, 
if  necessary,  and  fill  the  glasses.  Ratafick-cream  may 
also  be  made  of  the  beat  yolks  of  four  or  five  eggs,  with  a 
quart  of  cream  and  two  glasses  of  brandy  scalded  together 
(but  not  boiled)  over  the  fire,  if  moulded,  add  isinglass, 
and  proceed  as  for  other  creams  made  in  shapes.  «« 

893.  A  plain  Cream, — Boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  one  of 
cream,  with  two  bay-leaves,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  fine  sugar 
to  sweeten,  a  dozen  almonds,  and  three  bitter  ones,  beaten 
to  a  paste  with  orange-flower-water.  Thicken  with  a 
little  rice-flour  rubbed  with  milk,  and  give  it  a  scald. 
When  cold,  put  a  little  lemon-juice  to  the  cream,  and  fill 
the  glasses  or  cups.  A  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  may,  or 
may  not,  be  strewed  over  this  and  other  creams  in  cups. 

894.  Orange-cream^  an  elegant  Cream, — Wipe  with  a  wet 
towel,  and  grate  and  put  aside  the  thick  coarse  parts  of  a 
Seville  orange  rind  ;  then  pare  and  boil  the  skin  till  soft, 
changing  the  water.  Beat  this  in  a  marble  mortar,  and 
put  to  it  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  the  juice  of  the  orange 
strained,  four  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Beat  these  ingredients  thoroughly  well  together  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  by  degrees  mix  them  with 
a  pint  of  cream  that  has  boiled  ;  keep  beating  till  the 
whole  is  cold ;  then  put  it  into  custard-cups,  and  set  these 


cssAm.  503 

ia  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Wipe  the  cops,  let  the  cream 
thicken  by  cooling,  and  garnish  with  thin  parings  of  pre- 
aerred  orange-chips. — Obs.  By  the  addition  of  a  little 
isinglass  thb  cream  may  be  made  in  a  shape. 

895.  Lemtm-erecun. — Make  as  coffee-cream,  but  use 
lemon-rind  instead  of  coffee,  to  give  the  flavour. — Ohs^ 
Every  variety  of  cream  may  be  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner, only  changing  the  flavour,  as  pistctchio-cream  of  the 
nuts,  chocolate  and  tea  creams,  by  employing  an  infusion 
as  directed  in  coffee.  Orange-fiovoera  make  a  delicately- 
flavoured  cream. 

896.  Canary  or  Sack  Cream. — To  a  half-pint  of  cream 
add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  sweeten ;  put  to  this  the  beat 
yolk  of  an  ^^  or  two,  a  bit  of  lemon-rind,  and  a  glass  of 
wine.  Stir  over  the  fire,  but  take  care  it  does  not  curdle. 
Serve  in  glass  cups,  with  nutmeg  grated  over,  and  bits  of 
toast  or  small  light  biscuits  along  with  it. 

CREAMS  OR  BLAMANGES  OF  PRESERVED  OR  FRESH  FRUITS. 

897.  Raspberry  or  Straioberry  Cream,  not  iced, — Mash 
the  ripe  fruit,  and  boil  down  the  drained  juice  with  fine 
sugar.  Have  a  strong  whip  made  of  sweetened  cream. 
With  what  remains  of  the  cream,  mix  the  beat  yolks  of 
eggs,  three  to  the  pint  when  the  juice  is  added ;  cook  this, 
and  when  cold,  mix  in  the  fruit-syrup,  and  serve  the 
whip  over  it. — Ohs.  This  will  make  equally  well  of 
preserved  jellies  or  jams,  first  freeing  the  latter,  of  all 
seeds  and  skins ;  or  it  may  be  made  in  a  shape,  by 
mixing  an  ounce  of  melted  isinglass  with  a  quart  of 
cream,  straining  it,  and,  when  cool,  mixing  in  the  fruit- 
syrup,  and  filling  the  mould.  It  is  very  good  made  of  the 
pulp  ^  of  apples,  plums,  or  apricots,  but  then  changes  its 
name. 

898.  Pine-apple-creanl, — Infuse  the  rind  of  a  pine-apple 
in  boiling  cream,  and  proceed  as  in  other  creams,  only  this 
cream  is  almost  always  moulded  and  freezed. — Page  490. 

899.  Cocoa-ntU-cream. — Use  a  strong  infusion  of  grated 
cocoa  to  flavour. 

N.  B.-— Cocoa  is  a  favourite  flavouring  ingredient  in  the 
Colonies  for  puddings,  curries,  and  some  sauces.  It  is 
thought  to  give  the  laurel-leaf  flavour,  and  1^3  no  pemi- 


604  CBAP.  T.-— ORM AMEKTAL  DISHES,  &C. 

ciou8  quality.  Cocoa-nuts  are  now  so  cheap  and  plenti- 
ful, that  they  have  got  into  common  use  in  English 
eookery  and  bakery. 

900.  To  lee  Fruit-Creams^  JellieSy  Sfc, — Proceed  as 
before  directed  for  freezing  creams  in  moulds.  It  is 
necessary  that  creams  and  fruits  served  virith  the  name  of 
icedy  should  be  thoroughly  freezed  ;  to  be  so,  let  them  be 
long  enough  in  the  freezer,  and  only  empty  the  moulds,  or 
iill  the  glasses  when  they  are  wanted  at  table.  All  sorta 
of  fruits  may  be  iced. 

901.  JStratDberry  Ice-cream.  —  Mix  the  fruitr-juice, 
strained  and  sweetened,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  to  a 
pint  of  whipt  cream.  If  to  be  moulded  to  a  shape,  add  a 
little  melted  and  strained  isinglass ;  if  in  small  glasses^ 
this  is  not  necessary* 

902.  Raspberry  Ice-cream. — Make  as  above. 

903.  Apricot  Ice-cream,. — Peel,  stone,  and  pound  the 
apricots  with  a  little  sugar.  Press  the  mash  through  a 
tammy-sieve,  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Mix  it  with  sweet- 
ened whipt  cream  ;  put  a  little  melted  isinglass  to  it ;  whip 
the  whole  over  ice  till  it  is  thoroughly  blended ;  then  fill 
the  mould,  and  place  it  in  the  ice-bucket. — Read  No.  885, 

N.  B. — We  must  again  notice,  that  the  necessary  quan- 
tity of  isinglass  to  make  creams  take  a  shape  can  only  be 
ascertained  by  experiment. 

904.  Imitation  of  the  Red-Fruit  Ice-creams  is  made  by 
tinging  blancmange,  &c.,  with  beetroot  or  prepared 
cochineal. 

FRUIT  ICE- WATERS. 

In  these,  water  is  generally  substituted  for  cream.— There 
is  a  great  variety  of  them  made  all  much  in  the  same  way. 
Spirits  will  at  once  make  them  into  good  punch.  They 
are  just  in  fact  the  prepared  sherbet. 

905.  Lemon-  Water  Ice,  —  Take  the  zest  of  six  fresh 
lemons  off  on  lumps  of  sugar.  Scrape  this  off ;  add  to  it 
half  a  pint  of  lemon-juice,  and  one*  pint  of  syrup.  Strain 
and  freeze. — Orange-  Water  Ice  the  same, 

906.  Tamarind-  Water  Ice.— A  pound  of  tamarinds,  a 
quarter  pint  of  syrup,  a  little  lemon-juice,  a  pint^  and 
quarter  of  jyater  ;  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  freeze. 


J£LLIBB,  505 

§07.  Negm  Ice, — A  bottle  of  port-wine,  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  the  zest  of  a  lemon  rubbed  off  on  sugar,  a  phit  of 
syrup  or  more  to  taste  : — ^freeze  this. 

9cB.  Pine-^ppU-  Water  Ice^  of  fresh  or  preserved  Fruit* 
— Take  a  half-pint  of  pine-apple  syrup,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  few  slices  of  pine-apple  in 
dice, — ^freeze.  For  fresh  pine-apple,  take  a  pint  of  syrup 
to  a  pound  of  grated  frui^  and  half  a  pint  of  water  ;  rub 
through  a  sieve  and  freeze. 

JELLIES  TO  BE  SENT  TO  TABLE  IN  A  SHAPE. 

Clarify  the  sugar  you  use,  whether  the  jelly  is  boiled 
or  worked  cold  ;  for  although  the  main  excellence  of  these 
jellies  is  no  doubt  the  flavour,  their  most  obvious  qualities 
are  colour  and  transparency.  The  former  depends  on  the 
materials  employed  and  on  the  manner  of  preparing ;  the 
latter  in  a  great  measure  upon  the  straining  of  the  jelly. 
The  utensils  should  all  be  brightly  clean,  the  moulds  of 
pewter,  but  for  red  jellies,  of  earthenware,  and  the  spoons 
of  silver  or  wood.  Unless  the  moulds  are  set  in  ice,  the 
cook  will  often  be  disappointed  of  an  entire  shape. 

909.  Gahei  Feet  Jelly. — French  cooks  candidly  allow  that 
Calves'  Feet  Jelly  is  an  English  invention,  and  give  us 
credit  for  it.  It  is  the  great  Chief  of  the  whole  tribe  of 
moulded  jellies,  and  deserves  both  the  pains  and  praise 
bestowed  on  it.  Prepared  gelatines  are  now  extensively  sold 
for  jelly,  and  printed  directions  are  given  for  their  use.  They 
often  are  convenient,  but  good  cooks  disapprove,  or  are 
perhaps  a  little  jealous  of  them.  A  flrst-rate  female  cook 
lately  said  to  us,  "  I  have  a  better  jelly  from  my  feet ; 
and  a  nice  little  dish  besides  of  the  meat,  for  the  price  of 
the  dry  stuff  J"*  It  is  best  to  make  the  plain  jelly  or  stock — 
if  gelatine,  the  "  dry  stuff,"  is  not  used — the  day  before  the 
dish  is  wanted.  Clean  and  slit  four  calves'-feet,  and  boil 
them  slowly  in  fiYQ  quarts  of  water  till  rather  more  than 
the  half  is  wasted.  Skim  the  stock,  strain  it  off,  and 
when  cold  and  Arm,  remove  the  top-fat  and  the  sediment. 
Put  this  jelly-stock,  when  wanted,  into  a  nice  preserving- 
pan,  with  white  sugar  to  t^ste,  the  thin  rind  of  two  lemons, 
and  the  juice  of  from  four  to  six ;  a  half-bottle  of  Madeira 
^r  SheiTy,  the  whites  of  six  eggs  well  whisked,  and  the 


506  GHAP.  T.— ORKAlf  KMTAL  DISHES,  &C. 

shells  cnuhed  ftnd  thiown  into  the  pan.  Stir  this  well 
together,  and  set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  taking  care  not  to 
agitate  the  jelly  after  it  begins  to  heat.  Let  it  boil  slowly 
for  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes^  then  throw  in  a  little 
cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  another  five  minutes.  Set  the 
pan,  with  a  flannel  cloth  thrown  over  it,  to  settle  for  a  half* 
hour  or  more  ;  skim,  pour  the  jelly  into  a  flannel  jelly-bag ; 
strain  it,  and,  if  necessary,  return  it  into  the  jelly-bag,  till 
it  be  perfectly  pellucid,  and  fill  the  moulds. 

N.  B. — ^If  you  have  any  doubt  of  your  jelly  not  keeping 
the  shape,  add  a  little  melted  isinglass,  which  also  helps  to 
clear  the  jelly. — Obs,  This  jelly  may  be  made  of  cow-heels, 
or  a  proportion  of  them  ;  and  it  may  be  flavoured  with 
many  things,  some  of  them  cheap  substitutes  for  what  is 
ordered  above.  Home-made  noyeaUy  ot  ginger-wine^  may 
be  substituted  for  Madeira,  or  less  wine  may  be  used,  and  a 
little  citric  acid  or  verjuice  does  for  part  of  the  lemon- 
juice.  Some  very  great  economists  even  substitute  porter 
or  ale  for  wine,  and  flavour  with  coriander-seeds,  allspice, 
cinnamon,  and  cloves.  Finely-flavoured  mild  ale  is  indeed 
an  excellent  substitute,  but  it  must  not  be  too  bitterly 
hopped. 

910.  Madeira-Wine  Jelly, — Make  this  precisely  as 
calves'  feet  jelly,  but  add  the  Madeira  wine,  and  a  glass  of 
brandy  after  the  jelly  is  clarified ;  and  as  this  diminishes 
the  strength  of  the  jelly,  a  little  melted  isinglass  to  give 
firmness.  The  philosophers  of  the  stove  allege  that  jellies 
broken,  i.  e,  roughed^  eat  better  than  those  in  shape,  the 
admission  of  air  heightening  the  flavour.  What  is  left  of 
a  broken  shape  will,  roughed,  fill  glasses. — Obs»  Besides  the 
prepared  gelatines  of  Nelson,  Cox,  and  others,  jelly  is  now 
sold  in  bottles  ;  ready  for  moulding.  Set  the  bottle  in  hot 
water,  to  dissolve  the  contents,  pour  this  into  the  mould, 
and  add  what  wine,  spirits,  and  flavouring  ingredients  are 
considered  necessary. 

911.  Orange- Jelly, — Take  twenty  oranges ;  divide  and 
squeeze  the  whole  number,  as  in  making  orange  marma- 
lade. Infuse  the  rind  of  six  in  a  basin  with  boiling 
water.  Clarify  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  and  when 
it  has  reached  the  second  degree  (see  Clarifying^  put  in 


!  • 
i 


JBLLIBS,  507 

the  strained  juice,  and  the  strained  infusion  of  the  rind. 
Let  it  come  to  the  point  of  boiling,  but  not  boil.  Skim  it, 
and  run  it  through  a  jelly-bag.  If  the  oranges  are  too 
ripe,  use  a  fourth-part  bitter  oranges,  or  a  couple  of  lemons, 
with  their  rind  infused.  Add  a  little  clarified  isinglass. 
First  try  the  jelly  in  a  small  mould,  then  fill  the  moulds.— 
Obs,  The  colour  should  be  a  pale  topaz ;  a  few  blades  of 
safiron  will  improve  the  colour. 

912.  Lemon-Jelfy, — Make  this  exactly  as  the  above,  but 
use  more  sugar,  and  take  care  that  all  the  lemons  are 
quite  fresh.  Much  less  fruit  may  do,  and  the  rind  may 
be  saved,  rubbed  off  on  sugar,  for  other  purposes. 

913.  Apple-Jelly, — ^Pare  as  many  juicy  apples  as  you 
will  wan^  and  slice  them  into  a  little  water.  Boil  them 
to  a  mash,  drain  them  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  take 
equal  weight  of  sugar,  boiled  to  blowing  height.  Boil  for 
ten  minutes,  seasoning  with  the  grate  and  juice  of  two  or 
more  lemons.    Mould  and  freeze,  if  you  like. 

914.  PeachrJeUy. — Scald,  peel,  divide,  and  stone  eighteen 
peaches.  Break  the  stones,  and  take  out  the  kernels. 
Boil  the  peaches  and  bruised  kernels  in  clarified  syrup  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Season  it  with  the  juice  and  grate 
of  four  fresh  lemons.  Run  it  through  a  jelly-bag,  add  an 
ounce  of  strained  melted  isinglass,  and  fill  the  mould, 
which  must  be  plunged  in  ice. — Ohi^  All  these  jellies  may 
be,  and  often  are  made  without  freezing ;  though  there  is 
great  convenience  in  having  an  ice-pot  for  this  and  many 
other  purposes  in  fine  cookery. 

JELLIES  OF  BED  FRUITS  IN  SHAPES. 

Make  all  these  with  isinglass  purified,  and  do  not  boil 
them  so  long  as  jellies  for  preserving,  as  the  colour  will 
sufier.     One  direction  will  serve  for  all. 

915.  Raspberry-Jelly  for  a  Shape, — Put  fresh-picked 
fruit  with  a  third  red  currants  into  an  earthenware  mortar, 
with  pounded  sugar.  Mash  them  well.  Put  in  a  little 
water,  run  this  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  stir  in  what  you 
think  a  sufficient  quantity  (about  an  ounce  to  the  quart) 
of  melted  cold  isinglass.  Fill  your  mould. — Ohs,  Straw^ 
herry^  Bed  currant y  and  Cherry  jelly y  are  all  made  as 
above — only  for  cherries  add  a  little  lemon-juice;  and 


508  CHAP.  y.^-ORKAMENTAL  DISHSB^  &C. 

also  for  tlie  other  fraitSy  if  mawkishly  sweet  with  ovei'- 
ripeness. 

916.  HarUham-Jelly, — Simmer  a  half-pound  of  the 
shavings  in  two  quarto  of  water  till  the  half  is  wasted. 
Strain  and  boil  np  the  jelly  with  the  thin  rind  of  three 
sweet  oranges  and  three  lemons.  When  cool,  add  white 
sugar  to  taste,  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  wine,  and  the  whites 
of  six  eggs  well  whisked  up.  Let  it  just  come  once  more 
to  boil,  without  stirring  it,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly-bag 
till  quite  clear.  A  pinch  of  saffron  to  tinge  with  colour 
may  be  added. 

917.  Venu$*s  Jelly. — Make  as  hartshom-jelly ;  tint 
this  a  ruby  or  rose-colour  with  cochineal,  and  flavour  with 
Madeira.     This  is  a  fashionable  jelly. 

918.     BLANCMANGE. 

Eschew  the  reproach  of  English  Blancmange  being 
like  shaving  lather.  Pick  and  boil  two  ounces  of  isinglass 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  quart  of  milk  or  sweet 
cream,  with  the  thin  rind  of  a  small  lemon,  sugar  to 
taste,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Blanch,  split,  and  pound,  six 
bitter  almonds,  and  two  dozen  sweet  ones,  with  a  little 
rose-water,  or  plain  water,  to  prevent  their  oiling,  and 
stir  the  paste  gradually  into  the  hot  milk.  Strain  through 
a  fine  lawn  sieve  or  napkin  into  a  basin,  and  let  it  settle- 
for  a  good  while,  that  the  sediment  may  fall.  Pour  it 
again  clear  off  from  the  sediment,  and  fill  the  moulds. 
It  is  sometimes  difficult  to  take  out,  and  dipping  the 
mould  in  hot  water  destroys  the  fine  marble-like  surface. 
Rub  the  mould  with  a  towel  dipped  in  hot  water,  raise  the 
jelly  from  the  edges  with  a  fruit-knife,  and  then  u  se  the  fingers 
to  get  it  out.    Garnish  with  croutons  of  red  jelly  or  flowers. 

919.  Blancmange  as  in  France, — Make  the  stock  of  the 
jelly  of  calves'  feet  well  blanched,  or  of  white  fish,  as 
skate,  or  of  feet  of  poultry.  Season  it  with  lemon-peel 
and  coriander-seeds.  In  other  respects  make  it  as  above ; 
but  use  as  little  isinglass  as  possible.  Our  English  blanc- 
mange is,  in  fact,  just  almond-cream.  But  we  have  a 
variety  of  blancmanges  which,  except  in  the  name,  differ 
in  nothing  from  our  creams  in  fresh  and  preserved  fruits, 
pp.  503-604. 


TRIPLE^  OR  TIPSY  CAKA.  609 

919.^  Irish  Mo88y  or  Carrageeny  is  made  into  a  frugal 
blancmange  ;  but  it  is  at  best  a  poor  substitute  for  pre- 
pared gelatine,  isinglass,  or  fresh  jelly  of  calves'  feet.  Its 
sea-smell  can  never  be  wholly  overcome.  Soak  an  ounce 
of  moss  twelve  hours  or  more.  Drain,  and  boil  it  in  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  milk  for  half  an  hour,  putting  in  sugar  and 
cinnamon  to  taste,  stirring  it  to  prevent  setting  on.  Strain 
it  into  a  mould,  and  turn  out  when  wanted.  It  is  recom- 
mended for  invalids  and  delicate  persons. 

TRIFLE,  OR  TIPSY  CAKE. 

920.  An  elegant  Trifle* — Whisk  in  a  large  bowl,  early 
in  the  morning,  or  the  day  before  you  make  the  trifley  a 
quart  of  good  cream,  with  six  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  a 
glass  of  white  wine,  the  juice  and  iine  grate  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  few  bits  of  cinnamon.  Take  off  the  froth  as  it 
rises,  with  a  sugar-skimmer  or  silver  fish-trowel,  and  place 
it  to  drain  on  a  sieve  reversed  over  a  bowl.  Whisk  till 
you  have  enough  of  the  whip,  allowing  for  what  it  will 
fall  down.  Always  whip  cream  over  ice  if  you  have 
opportunity.  Next  day  place  in  a  deep  trifle-dish  six 
fresh-baked  sponge-biscuits  broken,  or  rice  trifle-cake,  or 
remnants  of  any  good  light  cake  cut  down,  a  dozen 
ratafia-drop-biscuits,  and  some  sweet  almonds  blanched 
and  split.  Pour  over  them  enough  of  white  wine,  or 
ginger- wine,  to  moisten  them  completely,  and  add  a 
seasoning  of  grated  lemon-peel,  and  a  thin  layer  of  rasp- 
beiTy  or  strawberry  jam.  Have  ready  a  rich  and  rather 
thick  custard,  and  pour  it  over  this  to  the  thickness  of 
two  inches.  Heap  the  whip  above  this  lightly  and  grace- 
fully, and  garnish  with  a  few  light  sprigs  of  flowers  of 
fine  colours,  or  a  few  bits  of  very  clear  currant-jelly  stuck 
into  the  snow-wliite  whip,  or  a  sprinkling  of  Harlequin- 
comfits.  This  last  we  consider  vulgar^  but  it  is  still  in  fre- 
quent use. 

920.'  Tipsy  Cake. — Crumble  a  fresh-baked  sponge-cake 
in  a  trifle-dish.  Pour  over  it  as  much  wine,  with  one- 
fourth  brandy,  as  it  will  imbibe,  and  heap  on  it  whipt 
cream  seasoned  as  for  trifle. — See  Nos.  937  and  1016. 

921.  Gooseberry  or  Apple  Trifle,  —  Scald,  pulp,  sweeten, 
and  season  the  fruit,  if  apples,  with  cinnamon  or  lemon 


510  CHAP.  V. — OBNAMENTAL  DISHES^  &C. 

grate  ;  mix  it  over  the  fire  with  a  thin  custard ;  put  it 
into  the  trifle-dish,  and,  when  cold,  cover  it  with  a  whip 
made  the  day  hefore,  as  no  whip  will  be  solid  unless  it  has 
stood  a  good  while.  There  need  be  no  cream  put  to  the 
fruit-pulp. 

CUSTARDS.* 

922.  Custard  for  a  centre  dishy  —  Scottish,  —  Make  a 
strong  whip  of  sweetened  cream,  and  have  a  little  of  the 
same  cream  tinged  with  cochineal  before  it  is  whipt. 
Heap  the  white  whip  over  a  rich  custard,  and  drop  the 
pink-coloured  froth  fancifully  over  that.  Garnish  with 
bright  green  and  scarlet  preserved  fruits,  —  angelica  and 
preserved  cherries  and  barberries  answer  well  to  contrast 
the  colours. 

923.  Almond  Custards,  —  Blanch  and  pound  nearly  a 
half-pound  of  sweet  and  a  half-ounce  of  bitter  almonds, 
using  a  little  rose-water  to  prevent  them  from  oiling. 
Sweeten  a  pint  or  rather  more  of  boiling  sweet  milk  and 
another  of  cream,  and  mix  these  gradually  with  the  beat 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  stirring  them  well  as  they  cool.  Rub 
the  almond-paste  through  a  sieve  to  this,  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  to  thicken,  carefully  stirring  it.  Pour  it  into  a 
jug,  and  stir  till  it  cools.  Instead  of  boiling,  this  may  be 
baked  in  cups,  or  in  a  dish  with  a  lightly- cut  paste-border. 
Flour  of  rice  may  be  used  instead  of  idmonds  :  these  are 
then  called  Rice  Custards. 

924.  Baked  Custards, — Boil  and  sweeten  with  fine  sugar 
a  pint  of  milk,  and  another  of  cream,  with  a  stick  of  cin- 
namon and  a  bit  of  lemon>peel.  When  cool,  mix  in  the 
beat  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Pick  out  the  cinnamon  and  lemon- 
peel,  fill  the  cups,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes. 

925.  Lemon  Custards, — Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  as 
well  as  if  for  a  cake,  till  they  are  a  strong  white  cream. 
Mix  in  gradually  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  stir 
this  one  way  over  the  fire  till  it  thicken,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil.     Add  a  little  wine  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy  when 

*  Onr  custards  are  almost  the  same  tHing  with  the  French  frangi- 
pane,  an  old  word  of  our  own  ;  or  the  crime  jxstiatene^  with  which 
they  eat  tourteSf  i.  e.  tarts,  ^ 


CUSTARDS  AND  CHEESECAKES.  £  1 1 

the  custard  is  almost  ready.     Stir  till  cooL     Serve  in 
cups,  and  grate  nntmeg  over. 

926.  Excellent  common  Ouitards,  —  Boil  a  quart  of  new 
milk  with  sugar,  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  lemon-peel,  and  a 
bay-leaf.  Mix  a  spoonful  of  rice-flour  with  a  little  cold 
milk  and  the  beat  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Stir  the  whole  gra- 
dually into  the  boiling  milk  in  a  basin,  and  then  let  it 
thicken  over  the  flre,  but  not  boil.  Pour  it  into  a  cold 
dish,  and  stir  one  way  till  cool.  For  bay-leaf  very  little 
ratafia,  Cura9oa,  or  peach-water,  may  be  put  to  flavour 
these  custards.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg,  or  strew  a  little 
ground  cinnamon  lightly  over  the  top  of  the  cups. 

927.  Cheesecakes.  — •  These  are  just  various  pudding  in- 
gredients, more  or  less  rich,  baked  in  paste,  and  covered. 

927.*  Good  old-fashioned  Cheesecakes.  —  Mix  with 
the  dry  beat  curd  of  a  quart  and  a  half  of  milk,  a  half- 
pound  of  cleaned  currants,  white  sugar  to  taste,  and  also 
pounded  cinnamon,  the  beat  yolks  .of  four  eggs,  the  peel  of 
a  lemon  grated  off^  on  lumps  of  the  sugar  used  for  sweet- 
ening, a  half-pint  of  scalded  cream,  and  a  glass  of  brandy. 
Mix  the  ingredients  well,  and  fill  patty-pans,  lined  with  a 
thin  light  puff^-paste,  nearly  full.  Cover :  twenty  minutes 
will  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven.    They  may  be  iced. 

928.  Almond  Cheesecakes. — Blanch  and  pound  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and  eight  bitter  ones^  with  a 
glass  of  common  or  of  orange-flower- water.  Add  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter-pint  of  cream,  and  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  beat  to  a  froth.  Mix  and  fill  small  patty- 
pans :  —  or  these  almond  cheesecakes  may  be  made  by 
merely  mixing  a  few  beat  almonds  with  the  cheesecakes. 
•—No.  927. — See  Savoury  Cheesecakes,  No.  661. 

■929.  Lemon  or  Orange  Cheesecakes, — Grate  the  rinds  of 
three  lemons,  and  squeeze  their  juice  over  three  sponge- 
biscuits  soaked  in  a  glass  of  cream.  Add  to  this  four 
ounces  of  fresh  butter^  four  of  fine  sugar,  and  three  eggs 
^ell  beaten.  Season  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Mix 
the  whole  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  small  pans 
lined  with  a  light  thin  paste.  Lay  a  few  long  thin  slices 
of  candied  lemon-peel  along  the  top  before  baking. 

930.   Whipt  Syllahub. — Make  a  strong  whip  as  directed 


612  CHAP.  T. — OBITAMBirTAL  DISHfiS,  &C. 

for  Trifle  ;  or  in  making  a  Trifle  a  little  of  the  whip  m&y 
be  saved,  or  may  even  be  applied  to  this  use  after  it  has 
done  duty  on  the  Trifle.  Mix  a  lai^e  pint  of  rich  sweet 
cream  with  a  half -pint  of  sweet  wine,  sifted  sugar  to  taste^ 
the  juice  and  fine  grate  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  cinnamon. 
Stir  this  briskly,  and  fill  the  glasses  within  a  half-inch  of 
the  brim.  With  a  spoon  lay  a  little  of  the  whip  lightly 
on  the  top  of  each ;  or  a  whip  may  be  got  by  whiskingf 
the  above  materials,  and  draining  the  froth  on  a  sieve  as 
long  as  possible  before  the  syllabubs  are  wanted. 

931.  Windsor  Sylkibub,  Pour  a  bottle  of  sherry  into 
a  deep  china  or  glass  bowl ;  sweeten  it  well,  and  season  it 
with  pounded  cloves  and  grated  nutmeg.  Milk  from  the  cow 
nearly  double  the  quantity  of  milk  over  it,  and  stir  it  up^ 

932.  Staffordshire  Syllabub, — It  is  made  as  above,  sub- 
stituting cider,  with  a  little  brandy,  for  the  wine. 

933.  Somersetshire  Syllabub. — Sweeten  a  pint  of  port, 
and  another  of  Madeira  or  sherry,  in  a  china  bowl.  Milk 
about  three  pints  of  milk  over  this.  In  a  short  time  it 
will  bear  clouted  cream  (No.  935)  laid  over  it.  Grate 
nutmeg  over  this,  and  strew  a  few  coloured  comfits  on  the 
top,  if  you  choose. 

934.  Curds  and  Cream,  Scottish.  —  When  the  milk  is 
curdled  firmly,  fill  up  a  melon-shape  or  Turk's-cap-shape, 
perforated  with  holes  to  let  the  whey  drain  ofi;  Fill  up 
the  dish  as  the  curd  sinks.  Turn  it  out  when  wanted, 
and  serve  in  a  glass  dish  with  cream  ;  or  a  whip  may  be 
poured  over  the  curd,  which  may  be  made  firm  either  by 
squeezing  or  standing  long  to  drain ;  or,  having  drained 
the  curd  well,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  pour  cream  over 
it.     Garnish  with  bits  of  red  cuiTant-jelly  or  barberries.  • 

936.  Chitted  Cream.  —  Season  a  quarter-pint  of  new 
milk  with  two  blades  of  mace,  and  put  to  it  a  large  glasA 
of  rose-water.  Strain  and  add  to  this  the  beat  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Stir  the  mixture  into  a  quart  of  rich  cream, 
and  let  it  scald,  stirring  it  all  the  while.  The  rose-water 
may  be  omitted  when  this  is  to  be  eaten  with  fruit. 

936.  An  Egg-Cheese  or  Curd-Star.  —  Boil  and  season 
with  cinnamon  and  lemon-peel,  a  quart  of  milk  or  creain, 
and  put  to  it  eight  eggs  well  beat,  and  a  very  little  salt. 


' 


WASSAIL'BOWI-  513 

Sweeten  uid  season  with  orange-flower-water,  wine,  or  any 
seasoning  that  is  preferred.  Stir  and  let  this  boil  till  it 
curdles,  and  till  the  whey  is  completely  separated  ;  then 
draiii  it  through  a  sieve,  and  put  it  into  a  star-mould  or 
other  shape,  that  has  holes  to  let  the  whey  drain  wholly 
ofiF.  When  firm,  turn  it  out,  and  serve  with  cream,  cus- 
tard, or  wine  and  sugar,  along  with  it,  or  around  it. 

937.  Wassail-Bowly  a  centre  Supper  Dish  far  Christmas- 
tide, — Crumble  down  as  for  Trifle  a  nice  fresh  cake  (or 
use  macaroons  or  other  small  biscuit)  into  a  china  punch- 
bowl or  deep  glass  dish.  Over  thb  pour  some  sweet  rich 
wine,  as  Malmsey  Madeira,  if  wanted  very  rich,  but 
raisin-wine  will  do.  Sweeten  this,  and  pour  a  well- 
seasoned  rich  custard  over  it.  Strew  nutmeg  and  grated 
sugar  over  it,  and  stick  it  over  with  sliced  blanched 
almonds. — Ohs,  This  is,  in  fact,  just  a  rich  eating  posset, 
or  the  more  modem  Tipiy  Cake,  A  very  good  wassail- 
bowl  may  be  made,  with  mild  ale,  well  spiced  and  sweet- 
ened, and  a  plain  custard  made  with  few  eggs.  The 
wassail-bowl  was  anciently  crowned  with  garlands  and 
ribbons,  and  ushered  in  with  carols  and  songs. 

938.  Devonshire  Junket.  -—  Milk  the  cow  into  a  bowl  in 
which  a  little  rennet  is  put.  Stir  it  up  when  full ;  and 
when  Arm  pour  over  it  scalded  cream,  pounded  sugar,  and 
cinnamon. 

SWEET  DISHES  OF  APPLES,  &C. 

939.  Ooostherry-FooL — Put  the  picked  fruit  and  a  glass 
of  water  in  a  jar  with  a  little  moist  sugar,  and  set  the 
jar  over  a  stove,  or  in  boiling  water,  till  the  fruit  will  pulpw 
Press  it  through  a  colander,  and  mix  the  pulp  by  degrees 
with  cream,  or  with  common  plain  custard  made  with  very 
few  eggs. 

940.  Apple^FooL  —  This  is  made  as  above.  The  fruit 
may  either  be  mixed  with  sweetened  milk,  thickened  with 
eggs,  or  with  plain  custard  or  cream. 

941.  Buttered  Affples, — Pare  and  core  pippins  or  ren- 
nets. Stew  in  thin  syrup  as  many  as  will  fill  your 
dish,  and  make  a  mash  or  marmalade  of  the  rest.  Cover 
the  dish  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  marmalade.  Place  the 
apples  on  this,  with  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  heart  of  each. 

2k 


6\4t  CHAP,  v.— ORNAMENTAL  DISHES,  &C. 

Lay  the  rest  of  the  marmalade  into  the  vacancies.  Glazci 
with  sifted  sugar,  and  give  them  a  fine  colour  in  the  oven. 
This  is  nearly  a  compete  in  the  French  style — and  a  good 
style  it  is — or  their  Pommes  au  beuvre. 

942.  Apples  in  Rice,  —  Prepare  apples  as  ahove ;  but 
instead  of  apple-marmalade  use  seasoned  and  buttered  rice. 
Glaze  and  brown  as  above. 

N.  B.  These  are  cheap  and  excellent  preparations.  For 
preparing  the  rice,  see  Gateau  de  Rizy  No.  1013. 

943.  To  bake  Apples  or  Pears, — ^Pare,  core,  and,  if  large, 
divide  them.  Bake  them  in  a  stoneware  dish  with  sugar, 
bruised  cloves,  a  little  sweet  wine,  and  grated  lemon-peel. 
The  oven  should  be  rather  slow. — See  Nos.  710,  984. 

944.  To  stew  Pears, — Prepare  and  season  them  as 
above,  and  pack  them  in  a  nice  block-tin  saucepan  with 
a  little  water  or  wine.  Cover  them  close,  and  let  them 
8tew  very  slowly  for  three  hours. — See  Nos.  708,  985-6. 

945.  Black  Caps, — ^Pare,  divide,  and  core  some  large, 
juicy  apples.  Bake  them,  with  white  sugar  strewed  over 
them.  Serve  with  a  sauce  of  wine,  water,  and  sugar, 
seasoned  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. — Obs,  Genuine  black 
cjps  are  neither  pared  nor  divided  ;  they  are  merely  cored, 
the  holes  stuffed  with  sugar  and  seasonings,  and  the  apples 
stewed  very  slowly  in  sweet  wine  in  a  close-covered  tin 
pan.  The  tops  are  then  blackened  with  a  salamander, 
which  gives  the  name. — See  also  French  Dishes  of  Fruity 
CompStes^  and  Preserves  of  Pears  and  Apples, 

946.  Chartreuse  de  Pommes, — Beauviltiers*  Receipts 
f— Take  a  score  of  rennets ;  peel  them,  and  with  a  very 
small  corer  take  off  all  the  pulp  about  the  heart ;  when 
there  is  enough  cored  to  fill  the  Chartrevtse  mould,  mince 
the  rest  of  the  apples  to  make  a  marmalade  ;  equalize  all 
the  little  apples,  or  pieces  that  have  been  cut  out  with  the 
apple-corer :  make  a  little  saffron- water ;  put  a  little 
sugar  to  it ;  throw  in  a  third  of  the  small  apples  ;  give 
them  a  slight  boil,  take  them  off,  and  drain ;  do  another 
third  in  cochineal,  and  tlie  last  in  a  syrup  of  white 
sugar,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  angelica  as  of  ths 
apples  ;  cover  the  mould  with  white  paper ;  make  any 
design  in   the   bottom  with  the  red,  green,  yellow,  and 


SWEET  DISHES  OF  RICE  AKD  FLUHMEBV.  515 

white  apples ;  fix  them  tastefully  all  round  the  mould  to 
the  top,  and  fiU  it  up  with  the  marmalade  ;  it  ought  to  he 
firm  and  without  any  void.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn 
up  the  mould  upon  the  dish,  and  take  off  the  paper. — Ohs, 
At  grand  dinners  dressed  in  the  French  style,  roots  are 
often  cut  in  forms,  and  served  in  the  above  way. 

947.  A  Dish  of  Snow,  or  Snow-Cream, — Stew  and  pulp 
a  dozen  of  apples ;  beat,  and,  when  cold,  stir  into  this  the 
whites  of  a  dozen  eggs  whisked  to  a  strong  froth ;  add  a 
half-pound  of  sugar  sifted,  and  the  grate  of  a  lemon. 
Whisk  till  it  becomes  stiff,  and  heap  it  in  a  glass  dish. 

SWEET  DISHES  OF  RICE  A.ND  FLUMMERY. 

948.  Snow-BalU, — Swell  a  half-pound  of  rice  in  water, 
with  a  roll  of  lemon-peel,  till  tender,  and  drain  it. 
Divide  it  into  five  parts,  and  roll  a  pared  apple  cored,  and 
the  hole  filled  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  into  each  heap, 
tying  each  up  tightly  in  separate  cloths.  Boil  for  an 
hour,  untie,  and  serve  with  pudding-sauce. 

949.  Buttered  Rice. — Swell  the  rice  till  tender  in  new 
milk.  Pour  off  the  thick  milk,  and  add  melted  butter, 
sugar,  and  cinnamon.  Serve  hot.  For  croquets  of  rice, 
see  observations  on  Gateau  de  Riz,  No.  1013. 

950.  Oatmeal  Flummery, — Put  finely-ground  oatmeal  to 
steep  in  water  for  three  days.  Pour  off  the  thin  of  the 
first  water,  and  add  more  water.  Stir  up,  strain,  and 
boil  this  with  a  little  salt  till  of  the  thickness  wanted, 
adding  water  at  first,  if  it  be  in  danger  of  getting  too  stiff. 
A  piece  of  butter  is  an  improvement,  and  a  little  white 
sugar.  Serve  in  a  basin  with  milk,  wine,  cider,  or  cream. 
— Ohs,  This,  if  allowed  to  stand  to  become  sour,  is  neither 
more  nor  less  than  Scotch  SowenSy  and  an  excellent  dish  it 
is. — See  Cookery  for  Invalids, 

951.  Rice  Flumm,ery, — Mix  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of 
rice-flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  to  it  a  large  pint 
of  boiled  milk  sweetened  and  seasoned  with  cinnamon  and 
lemon-peel.  Two  bitter  almonds  beaten  will  heighten  the 
flavour.  Boil  this  and  stir  it  constantly,  and  when  of 
proper  consistence,  pour  it  into  a  shape  or  basin.  When 
eold  turn  it  out,  and  serve  with  cream  or  custard  round  it : 
or  with  a  sauce  of  wine,  sugar,  and  lemon-juice. — This 


616  CSAP.  T.— ORNAMEKTAL  DI8H1BS,  &C« 

diflfen  in  nothing  from  rice  blancmange,  except  that  rice-^ 
flour  19  used  instead  of  unground  rice. 

d52.  DtifcA  Flummery y  or  Yellow  Flummety^  ike  French 
Jaune  Mange^  S^Cy  may  be  made  as  directed  for  blanc- 
mange,  using  well-beat  yolks  of  eggs  instead  of  cream* 
Colour  with  safiPron.  It  may  be  made  either  in  cups  or  in 
a  mould  of  any  shape. — N.  B.  Seldom  made. 

953.  Rice  Blancmange, — Swell  four  ounces  of  rice  in 
boiling  water ;  drain  and  boil  it  to  a  mash  in  good  milk, 
with  sugar,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon. 
Take  care  it  does  not  bum  ;  and  when  quite  soft,  pour  it 
into  cups,  or  into  a  shape  dipped  in  cold  water.  When 
cold,  turn  it  out«  Garnish  with  croutons  of  currant-jelly^ 
or  with  any  red  preserved  fruit.  Serve  with  cream,  or 
plain  custard.  We  can  find  no  English  word  equivalent 
to  croutons — a  bit,  a  diamond,  or  sippet — ^nothing  will  do  to 
convey  the  idea  of  this  delicate  morsel  of  embellishment. 

954.  Mille  FemlleSy  Italian  Pyramid,  Puit  d^ Amour. — 
This  is  the  self-same  thing,  with  different  names.  A  good 
puff-paste,  rather  thick,  must  be  stamped  out  with  tin 
stamps,  or  any  ingenious  substitutes,  into  a  number  of 
pieces,  each  less  than  the  other,  the  base  being  of  the  size 
of  the  plate  on  which  the  pyramid  is  to  be  raised,  and  the 
others  gradually  tapering  pyramidically.  Bake  the 
pieces  of  paste  on  paper  laid  on  tins,  and  ice  them.  Pile 
them  up,  laying  raspberry  and  other  jams  of  different 
colours  on  the  ledges,  and  a  bunch  of  small  preserved  fruit 
or  some  other  ornament  to  crown  the  pile. 

955.  Another  way,  from  Beauvilliers, — Take  puff-paste, 
and  roll  it  out  as  above  ;  cut  it  with  figured  paste-cutters 
of  different  sizes ;  cut  them  equal  in  number,  the  large  and 
small ;  put  the  large  upon  a  leaf ;  wet  them  with  water, 
and  put  a  small  one  on  each  large  one ;  with  the  point  of 
a  knife  cut  them  out  in  the  middle  the  size  of  a  thimble  ; 
put^them  into  the  oven,  and  when  nearly  done  powder 
them  with  sugar  ;  take  out  the  cut  middle,  replace  it  with 
sweetmeats,  and  serve. 

SWEET  SOUFFL^. 

These  favourite  and  fashionable  preparations  too  often 
fail^in  the  hands  of  ordinary  cooks— -or  of  one  cook,  with 


80rPFt.ES.  /1(17 

perhaps  a  temporary  assistant,  and  distracted  with  a 
hundred  cares.  For  soufflls,  there  should  properly  he  a 
8ouffl4-dish  that  will  stand  the  oven,  and  a  finer  one  into 
which  it  fits  to  go  to  tahle.  For  the  light  and  airy 
appearance  of  souffles,  much  depends  on  the  whisking  of 
the  eggs,  hut  more  on  the  haking.  Besides,  they  must  he 
served  instantly,  or  they  will  flatten.  There  is  often  no 
help  for  this,  and  the  consolation  remains,  that  what  is  not 
a  light,  delicate  souffle  is  nevertheless  a  very  good  pudding. 

956.  SoujffU  of  Ground  Bice, — Bleach  two  spoonfuls  of 
rice-flour,  as  directed  for  potato-flour.  No.  232,  and  dry 
this  quantity.  Boil  it  slowly  with  a  half-pint  of  sweet 
milk.  To  a  little  of  it  in  a  hasin  put  the  heat  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  mix  them  well.  Sweeten  this,  and  cook  the 
whole  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  as  in  making  cufi- 
tard.  Cool  this,  and  gently  pour  into  it  the  whites  of  six 
eggs,  heaten  to  a  snow.  (If  they  are  not  well  heaten, 
the  souffl6  will  never  rise.)  Put  the  whole  into  a  souffle- 
dish,  and  hake  it  in  a  rather  slack  oven.  It  will  take 
from  a  half  hour  to  forty  minutes.  All  depends  upon  the 
state  of  the  oven.  Brown  with  a  salamander,  and  serve 
instantly. 

957.  SouffU  of  PoUUo  Flour, — Mix  a  large  spoonful  of 
potato-flour  and  one  of  sifted  sugar,  with  as  much  hoiled 
milk  or  cream  as  will  make  a  thick  hatter  of  them,  or  a 
thin  paste.  Flavour  this  with  rose-water,  orange-flower- 
water,  cofiee,  or  chocolate,  as  you  please,  and  name  the 
souffle  accordingly.  Work  into  this  the  heat  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  and  afterwards  gently  add  the  whites  heat  to  a  snow. 
Bake  the  souffle,  and  glaze  it  if  you  please.  This  dish  is 
susceptihle  of  many  forms ;  it  may  he  coloured  with 
saffron,  &c.  The  whipping  of  the  eggs  and  the  state  of 
the  oven  are  the  main  points. 

958.  Omelette  SoufjU, — Beat  separately,  and  strain  the 
whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Sweeten  the  yolks,  and 
perfume  with  orange-flower-water  or  lemon-peel.  Beat 
the  whites  again  to  a  strong  whip,  and  stir  this  lightly  into 
the  yolks.  Melt  a  hit  of  fresh  hntter  in  an  omelet-pan, 
and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Cook  it  over  a  slow  fire  not  to 
soorch.    Turn  it  carefully  out.     Dredge  fine  sifted  sugar 


618  CHAP.  y. ORNAHEirrAT.  DISHES,  &C. 

over  it^  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  rise. — Ohs.  Souffle  m&/ 
be  flavoured  in  many  ways. — Ratafia  cake  pounded,  ar 
pounded  almonds,  may  be  added  to  the  mixture. — See  No. 
672. 

959.  SoujffU  of  Apples  in  a  Rice-harder. — Prepare  the 
rice  as  for  Gateau  de  Riz,  but  keep  it  thicker  by  using  less 
milk.  Raise  the  border  three  inches  round  your  dish, 
egging  the  edge  to  make  it  adhere.  Make  it  smooth  and 
of  a  neat  form.  Mix  with  new-made  apple-jam,  very- 
sweet,  the  beat  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  two  ounces  of 
butter.  Stir  this  over  the  fire  to  cook  the  eggs.  To  this 
put  the  whites  of  eight  or  ten  eggs  whisked  to  a  snow. 
Mix  gently.  Fill  the  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
till  the  souffle  rises  light. — See  No.  677. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  SWEETMEATS  AMD  PRESERVES. 

To  preserve  the  fruits  that  are  in  common  use,  and  to 
make  those  sweetmeats  which  are  oftenest  wanted  in  pri- 
vate families,  is  justly  considered  a  point  of  good  house- 
wifery ;  for  common  preserves  may  be  both  cheaper  and 
more  nicely  done  at  home  than  where  they  are  manufac- 
tured by  wholesale  for  the  market.  A  little  "Care  and 
practice  will  soon  give  the  cook  or  mistress  of  a  family 
sufficient  skill  to  prepare  the  sugar  for  these  things, — 
attention  and  cleanliness  do  the  rest.  The  sugar  for  pre- 
serves ought,  generally  speaking,  to  be  of  the  first  quality. 
It  ought  also  to  be  in  sufficient  quantity,  for  it  is  short- 
sighted economy  to  make  paltry  savings,  at  the  risk  of 
injuring  commodities  which  are  costly,  however  they  may  be 
managed.  Never  squeeze  fruit  too  much.  Take  merely  the 
juice  that  flows  freely ;  and  use  what  remains  for  made- wine, 
plain  jams,  or  black  butter^  No.  979.  Unless  preserves  are 
bright,  and  of  a  fine  colour,  they  lose  half  their  value  ;  and 
this  they  never  will  be  if  the  fruit  is  squeezed  till  the  seeds 
are  broken.  Let  sieves  be  dipt  in,  and  jelly-bags  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  before  using  them,  or  they  will  absorb  a 
great  quantity  of  the  jelly*  Sweetmeats  are  usually 
kept  in  small  pots  of  earthenware,  or  small  stone  jars» 
with  papers  steeped  in  brandy  put  over  them  as  soon  as 
they  are  cool,  and  a  layer  of  sugar  sifted  either  above  or 


OBSERVATIONS  OX  SWEETMEATS  AND  PRESERVES.        ^19 

below  these  papers,  or  both.  We  have  found  lead-foil 
answer  well.  The  sugar  is  well  bestowed,  and  it  can  be 
afterwards  used  in  making  other  preserves.  To  keep 
stone-fruit,  melted  mutton-suet  is  sometimes  poured  over 
it,  when  jellied,  which  is  certainly  an  efficacious  method  of 
excluding  the  air,  though  not  very  pleasant  otherwise. 
Presses  lined  with  wood,  shelves,  pantry-drawers,  or  any 
place  that  is  perfectly  dry,  and,  if  possible,  not  too  warm, 
are  best  suited  for  keeping  preserves.  Brass  pans,  scoured 
till  brightly  clean,  are  still  much  used  for  making  pre- 
serves ;  but  a  vessel  of  double  block-tin,  or  of  iron  very 
thickly  tinned,  or  enamelled,  if  kept  for  jellies  and  sweet 
things,  answers  very  well,  and  is  more  safe,  particularly 
for  the  coarser  jams,  which,  being  generally  made  with  a 
short  allowance  of  sugar,  require  long  boiling.  Sweet- 
meats are  best  when  rather  quickly  boiled,  that  the  watery 
parts  may  be  driven  off  without  a  process  continued  so 
long  as  to  injure  the  colour  of  the  fruit.*  The  shade  of 
colour  may  be  varied  in  many  ways  by  using  white  cur- 
rants to  lighten,  or  black  to  deepen  the  colour,  or  by 
white  or  red  raspberry-juice.  Currant  jellies  may  be 
made  without  boiling  at  all,  by  merely  stirring  the  sugar 
finely  beaten  and  sifted  into  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  or  what 
is  termed  worked-cold.  But  though  the  flavour  is  pre- 
served, they  look  muddy  and  eat  harshly.  It  is  a  good 
plan  to  have  a  sieve,  spoons  with  holes,  and  two  pans  of 
different  sizes,  kept  wholly  for  preserves  and  sweet  dishes, 
as  the  least  taint  of  other  things  will  at  once  destroy  these 
delicate  preparations.  Sweetmeats  and  preserved  fruits 
ought  to  be  looked  at  several  times  during  the  first  month ; 
and  if  mouldiness  gather  on  them,  which  is  not  occasioned 
by  external  damp,  jellies  and  jams,  and  the  syrup  of  pre- 
serves must  be  boiled  over  again  till  the  jelly  is  firm,  and 
the  watery  particles  are  wholly  evaporated.  Strong  glass 
vessels  keep  preserves  weU,  and,  now  that  glass  is  so  cheap, 
are  cheaper  in  the  end  than  earthenware  ones. — Ohs.  The 
great  art  in  preserving  is  to  avoid  having  the  syrup  too 
rich  at  first,  which  would  infallibly  shrivel  the  fruits, 

*  This,  we  believei  \b  »  culinary  heresy,  but  we  avouch  it* 


620  CHAP,  y.— ORNAMENTAL  DISHES,  &C. 

particularly  if  they  be  boiled  in  it,  or  have  it  poured  too 
hot  oyer  them. 

OF  BOILING  SUGARS  FOR  PRESERySS. 

Confectioners  reckon  seyeral  degrees  in  preparing 
sugars,  from  a  simple  Clarified  syrup  to  caramel.  The 
Saccharometer  is  as  useful  to  the  confectioner  and  cook 
as  to  the  brewer. — See  it  in  our  Section  on  Brewing. 

960.  To  Clarify  Stigar, — To  every  pound  of  broken 
sugar  of  the  best  quality  take  a  quarter-pint  of  water,  and 
the  half  of  the  white  of  an  t^^  beat  up,  or  less  ^^^  will 
do.  Stir  this  up  till  the  sugar  dissolve,  and  when  it  boils, 
and  the  scum  rises  strong  and  thick,  pour  in  another 
quarter-pint  of  cold  water  to  each  pound.  Let  it  boil, 
edging  the  pan  forward  from  the  stove  till  all  the  scum  is 
thrown  up.  Set  it  on  the  hearth,  and  when  it  has  settled 
take  off  the  scum  with  a  sugar-skimmer,  and  lay  it  on 
a  reversed  hair-sieve  over  a  dish,  that  what  syrup  is  in 
it  may  run  clear  from  it.  Return  the  drained  syrup  into 
the  pan,  and  boil  and  skim  the  whole  once  more. — French 
artistes  allege  that  our  new  rapid  process  of  sugar-refining 
gives  an  inferior  quality  of  sugar. 

961.  Candied  Sugar ^  first  degree, — Boil  sugar,  clarified 
as  above,  till  it  rises  in  the  pan  like  clusters  of  pearls ;  or 
try  between  the  finger  and  thumb  if  it  have  tenuity 
enough  to  draw  out  into  a  thread. 

962.  Blown  Sugar^  second  degree, — Boil  candied  sugar 
till,  on  dipping  the  skimmer  into  the  syrup,  and  blowing 
through  the  holes  of  it,  the  sugar  forms  into  bubbles. 

963.  Feathered  Height^  third  degree, — Boil  sugar  of 
the  second  degree  for  some  time  longer,  and  dip  the  skim-^ 
mer  in  the  pan  ;  shake  off  the  sugar,  and  give  the  skim- 
mer a  quick  toss,  when,  if  enough  done,  the  sugar  will  fly 
off  like  snow-flakes. 

964.  Crackling  Sugar y  fourth  degree, — 'Roil  feathered 
sugar  till,  on  dipping  a  stick  into  the  pan,  and  dipping  it 
afterwards  in  cold  water,  the  sugar  will  immediately 
become  hard. 

965.  Caramel  Sugar, — ^Boil  crackling  sugar  till,  on 
dipping  a  stick  into  it,  and  then  into  cold  water,  it  hardens 
and  snaps  like  glass. — Obs,  This  last  makes  a  very  elegant 


FRUIX-JKLLIXS.  621 

cover  for  sweetmeats,  when  prepared  thus :— Set  the  pan 
with  the  caramel  sugar  instantly  into  a  vessel  of  cold 
water.  Have  the  caramel-moalds  oiled  with  almond-oil, 
and  with  a  fork  spread  fine  threads  of  the  caramelled 
sugar  over  them  in  form  of  net- work  or  chain-work.  This, 
however,  is  easier  said  than  done.  All  sorts  of  fruit  may 
be  caramelled,  whether  fresh  or  preserved.  They  must  be 
washed  free  of  sugar,  if  preserved,  and  dried  in  hoth  cases. 
The  process  is,  however,  troublesome,  and  seldom  succeeds 
but  under  the  hands  of  thorough- bred  confectioners,  to 
whom,  in  general,  all  highly-ornamental  affairs  should,  we 
think,  be  left.  If  families  can  afford  ornament,  they 
must  not  grudge  the  cost  of  having  it  well  executed. 
FRUIT-JELLIES.    Scc  olso  pages  506,  607.^ 

966.  Hed  Currant  Jelly.-^liet  the  fruit  be  good  of  its 
kind,  fully  ripe,  and  gathered  on,  and  after,  a  dry  day. 
Strip  it  off  the  stalks ;  weigh  it,  and  clarify  and  boil  to  the 
second  degree  an  equal  weight  of  refined  sugar.  Put  the 
fruit  to  this  in  the  preserving-pan ;  skim  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Skim  again,  and  run  the  jelly  through  a 
hair-sieve ;  but  do  not  run  it  off  too  much ;  pot  it,  and 
when  cold  paper  it  up,  as  above  directed.  What  remains 
in  the  sieve  will  make  pies,  or  mix  with  any  common  jam, 
and  the  jelly  will  be  far  more  delicate  from  avoiding  all 
squeezing. — Obs,  A  small  proportion  of  raspberries  greatly 
improves  the  flavour  of  the  jelly.  It  may  be  made  paler 
by  the  mixture  of  a  fourth  or  third  part  of  white  currants ; 
or  white  raspberries  may  be  used.  This  jelly  may  be 
made  with  much  less  boiling,  or  no  boiling,  for  it  may  be 
worked'Coldy  as  it  is  technically  termed  ;  but  though  this 
method  is  suitable  for  jellies  made  to  serve  in  shapes,  -~ 
for  immediate  use  in  desserts,  or  for  venison  and  mutton 
sauce, — it  does  not,  in  our  opinion,  or  by  our  experience, 
answer  for  preserving. 

967.  White  Currant  Jelly, — Make  as  above,  or  heat  the 
fruit  in  a  jar  and  strain  off  the  juice.  Use  only  a  silver 
skimmer  and  the  finest  sugar,  and  boil  only  five  minutes,  as 
the  delicate  colour  of  this  sweetmeat  is  very  easily  injured. 
Run  it  twice  through  a  jelly-bag,  if  necessary.    Apple^ 


522  CHAP.  V. — omi^AMSNTAt  DISHES,  &C. 

jelly,  or  white  raspberry-juice,  may  be  put  to  this  preserve.- 
N*B. — Have  the  sugar  previously  high-boiled. 

968.  Black  Currant  Jelly, — Pick  the  fruit,  and  scald 
it  in  a  jar  set  in  boiling  water.  Add  a  little  water  to  it, 
and  squeeze  the  hot  fruit  through  a  sieve.  To  every  pint 
of  the  juice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  little  water,  and 
boil  and  skim  for  twenty  minutes. 

969.  Another  way, — Clarify  the  sugar,  and  put  the 
fruit  to  it.  Let  it  boil  for  twenty  minutes  :  run  off  some 
of  the  jelly  through  a  sieve,  and  keep  the  rest  as  a  jam 
for  common  tarts  or  dumplings,  &c.  If  for  sore  throats, 
a  little  spermaceti  may  be  added  to  it,  or  a  little  calf  s-feet 

jelly. 

970.  Gooseberry  and  Cranberry  Jellies, — Clarify  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar  with  that  of  the  fruit.  Boil  the 
fruit  and  sugar  for  twenty  minutes,  and  run  through  a 
sieve,  allowing  a  little  to  remain  to  make  a  plain  jam, 
which  may  be  seasoned  with  spices  and  used  for  dumplings 
and  pies. — Obs,  Where  cranberries  are  gathered  in  this 
country,  old-fashioned  good  housewives  put  only  cinnamon 
to  those  they  preserve  for  tarts.  Cloves  or  mace  would 
be  more  suitable.— See  No.  811,  and  Cranberry  Gruel, 

971.  Raspberry  Jam, — Take  three  parts  of  picked 
raspberries  and  one  of  red-currant  juice,  with  equal  weight 
of  sugar.  Put  on  half  the  sugar  with  a  little  water ;  skim 
this  and  add  the  fruit.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  the 
other  half  of  the  sugar,  and  boil  for  another  five  minutes^ 
and,  when  cold,  pot  the  jam.  This  and  all  other  jams 
may  be  made  with  less,  sugar,  if  they  are  longer  boiled  : 
but  both  colour  and  quality  will  suffer  in  the  process,  and 
less  boiling  will  serve  if  the  sugar  is  previously  high-boiledi 

972.  Strawberry  Jam, — Gather  fine  scarlet  strawberries^ 
quite  ripe.  .Bruise  them,  and  put  about  a  sixth-part  of 
red-currant  juice  to  them :  take  nearly  an  equal  weight 
of  sugar,  pounded,  and  strew  it  over  them  in  the  preserving- 
pan  ;  boil  quickly  for  fifteen  minutes ;  pot,  and  cover  with 
brandy  papers. — See  No.  995. 

.    973.  Gooseberry  and  Black-Currant  Jam, — Take 
equal  weight  of  pounded  lump-sugar  and  picked  fruit,  noij 


600SSBERRT  JAM,  &C.  523 

too  ripe  ;  strew  the  sugar  over  the  fruit  in  the  preserving- 
pan,  and  put  a  little  water  into  it.  Boil  and  skim ;  lift 
a  little  of  the  juice  and  fruit  when  the  fruit  has  hoiled  for 
about  twelve  minutes,  and  set  it  to  cool  on  a  plate.  If 
the  juice  runs  off,  the  jam  must  be  boiled  longer ;  if  it 
jellies,  though  slightly,  it  is  enough.  Thit  is  a  test  for 
all  jellies, — Ohs.  To  get  rid  of  some  of  the  numerous  seeds 
of  the  hairy  red-gooseberry,  take  up  the  syrup,  as  it  boils, 
with  a  gravy-spoon,  and  run  it  back  through  a  small  sieve 
into  the  pan.     Another : — 

973.^  The  Ettrick  Jam, — Take  rather  under-ripe  white 
or  sulphur-coloured  gooseberries;  top  and  tail  them ;  make  as 
above,  and  flavour  with  essence  or  fresh  lemon-peel,  finely 
grated,  and  lemon-juice  to  taste.  This  is  a  jam  for  tarts 
and  puddings,  little  inferior  to  apricot-jam.  Our  rationale 
of  unripe  fruit  for  jams  is,  that  the  skins  and  seeds  are 
more  delicate  than  when  the  juices  are  fully  ripened. 

974.  Apricot  and  Plum  Jam,  or  Marmalade, — Stone 
and  skin  the  fruit;  scald  it  with  a  little  water  in  an 
earthenware  or  stone  vessel;  rub  it  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  or  mash  it  in  a  bowl.  Take  equal  weight  of  pulp 
and  pounded  loaf  sugar,  and  boil  the  jam  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  preserving-pan,  stirring  and  skimming  it* 
The  bruised  kernels  of  the  fruit,  or  a  few  bitter  almonds, 
blanched  and  bruised,  may  be  put  in  to  flavour  the  jam. 
Peachy  nectarine,  greengage^  and  quince  jam,  for  pud- 
dings and  tarts,  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. — Ohs* 
Jams  should  be  quickly  boiled  to  retain  a  good  colour,  and 
care  must  be  taken,  by  stirrings  that  the  thicker  sorts  do 
not  stick  to  the  pan. — See  No.  988. 

976.  Scotch  Orange-Chip  Marmalade,  —  Take  equal 
weight  of  fine  loaf*sugar  and  Seville  oranges.  Wipe  and 
grate  the  oranges,  but  not  too  much*  [The  outer  grate 
boiled  up  with  sugar  will  make  an  excellent  conserve  for 
ricCy  custard,  or  hatter  puddings,"]  Cut  the  oranges  the 
cross  way,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  through  a  small  sieve. 
Scrape  off  the  pulp  from  the  inner  skins,  and  pick  out 
the  seeds.  Boil  the  skins  till  perfectly  tender,  changing 
the  water  to  take  off  part  of  the  bitter.  When  cool, 
scrape  the  coarse,  white,  and  thready  part  from  the  skins^ 


624  CHAP,  y.^BNAMBNTAL  DISHES,  &C» 

and  tmsaing  three  or  four  skins  together  for  despatch,  cut 
them  into  narrow  chips.    Clarify  the  sugar,  and  pat  the 
chips,  pnlp,  and  juice  to  it.      Add,  when  boiled  for  ten 
minutes,  the  juice  and  grate  of  two  lemons  to  every  dozen 
of  oranges.      Skim  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes ;    pot, 
and  cover  when  cold.  —  Obi,  There  are  various  ways  of 
making  this  favourite  marmalade.    The  half  of  the  boiled 
skins  may  be  pounded  before  they  are  mixed  ;  and  if  the 
chips  look  too  numerous,  part  of  them  may  be  withheld 
for  pudding-seasoning.      The  orange-grate,  if  a  strong 
flavour  is  wanted,  may  either  be  added  in  substance,  or 
infused,  and  the  tincture  strained  and  added  to  the  marma- 
lade when  boiling.     Whei*e  marmalade  is  made  in  large 
quantities  to  keep  or  for  exportation,  the  various  articles 
are   prepared  and  put  at  once  into  a  thin  syrup,  boiled 
for  from  four  to  six  hours,  and  potted   in  large  jars. 
Orange-marmalade  may  be  thinned  with  apple-jelly,  or 
when  used  at  breakfast  or  tea,  it  may  be  liquified  extempore 
with  a  little  tea.      It  keeps  best  in  large  quantities,  and 
keeps  for  years,  if  properly  prepared  and  potted. 

976.  Smooth  Orange-Marmalade,  —  This  is  made  as 
above,  only  the  skins,  instead  of  being  cut  into  chips, 
must  be  pounded  in  a  mortar,  and  gradually  mixed  with 
the  syrup, — ^withholding  a  part,  if  the  marmalade  be  in 
danger  of  becoming  too  thick.     Some  use  more  sugar. 

977.  TVansparent  Orange-Marmalade,  —  Use  the  juice 
and  pulp  of  the  fruit  only.  Wash  the  latter  in  a  very 
little  water,  and  strain  this  to  the  juice.  Take  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  refined  sugar  to  the  pint  of  juice,  and  boil 
it  to  the  second  degree.  Put  the  juice  to  the  syrup,  and 
boil  and  skim  well  for  twelve  minutes.  —  Obs,  Use  the 
skins  for  candied  orange-peel,  No.  1001. 

Lemon-marmalade  may  be  made  as  above,  but  is  seldom 
seen.    It  requires  more  sugar. 

978.  Apple-Marmalade,  —  Pare  and  core  the  apples. 
Set  them  in  a  slow  oven  all  night.  Next  day  boil  them, 
sweetened,  and  seasoned  with  lemon-peel,  &c.,  according 
to  your  taste. — See  No.  974. 

979.  Black  Butter  for  Children^  a  Nursery  Preserpe,  — 
Pick  currantEi,  gooseberries,  strawberries,  or  whatever  fruit 


I 

t 


PRESERVES  OF  FRUIT.  525 

you  have :  to  every  two  pounds  of  frait  put  one  of  sugar, 
and  boil  till  a  good  deal  reduced. 

980.  To  preserve  Damsons /w'  Pies, — Have  equal  to  the 
weight  of  the  stoned  fruit  of  clarified  sugar.  Boil  any  of 
the  broken  damsons  in  this  ;  and  then  add  the  whole  quan- 
tity,  and  boil  till  it  jellies.  Pot  the  compote,  and  tie  paper 
over  the  pots.     Keep  them  in  a  dry  place.— -See  No.  989. 

981.  Four  Fruits  Jam.  —  Have  three  parts  in  equal 
quantity  of  picked  black  currants,  stoned  black  cherries, 
and  red  raspberries,  and  for  every  pint  have  a  half-pint 
of  red-currant  juice.  Boil  as  other  jams,  with  equal  weight 
of  sugar  and  fruit. 

982.  Cheap  Method  of  preserving  Fruit  for  Ptiddings. 
— •  Pare  apples,  pears,  plums ;  or  pick  whatever  sort  of 
small  fruit  you  have,  and  place  it  in  a  stone  jar,  with  as 
much  good  brown  sugar  as  will  sweeten  it.  Bake  in  a 
cool  oven  till  done.  This  will  eat  with  rice  or  with  bread, 
make  small  pasties,  &c. 

983.  To  preserve  Fruit  without  Sugar^  for  Pies, 
Puddings,  cfc,  —  Gather  Morella  cherries,  greengages, 
currants  in  bunches,  green  gooseberries,  &c.,  not  over-ripe, 
and  pick  them  as  soon  and  as  gently  as  possible.  All 
bruised  ones  must  be  laid  aside.  Drop  them  softly  into 
wide-mouthed  short-necked  glass  bottles,  and  shake  the 
bottles  gently  that  the  fruit  may  lie  compactly.  Stop  the 
bottles  with  good  corks,  and  set  them  in  a  slow  oven  till 
the  fruit  begins  to  shrivel.  Take  them  out  of  the  oven, 
and  in  a  little  while  make  the  corks  firm,  dip  them  in 
bottle-rosin,  and  keep  till  wanted. — Ohs.  We  do  not  pledge 
ourselves  for  this  receipt. 

RECEIPTS  FOR  BEAUTIFUL  PRESERVES  LVH  COMPOTES  FOR 

DESSERTS,  &C.  &C. 

984.  Jargonelle  Pears.  —  Take  large,  finely-shaped 
pears,  and  pare  them  very  smoothly  though  thinly.  Sim- 
mer them  in  a  thin  syrup,  and  let  them  lie  in  this  syrup 
in  a  covered  tureen  or  basin  for  a  day  or  two.  See  that 
they  are  covered  with  the  syrup.  Drain  off  the  syrup,  and 
put  more  sugar  to  it.  Clarify  it,  and  simmer  the  pears  in 
it  till  they  look  transparent.  Take  them  up,  and  pour 
the  syrup  over  them.    About  a  fourth  more  sugar  than 


526  CHAP.  V. — ORNAMENTAL  DISHES,  &e. 

the  weight  of  the  fruit  is  the  requisite  quantity  in  all.  — ^ 
Ob8,  The  syrup  may  he  seasoned  with  the  juice  of  lemons. 
The  pears  may  either  he  served  dry  by  drying  them  in  the 
sun,  or  in  a  slow  oven  when  wanted  ;  or  served  in  the  syrup, 
which  is  better  and  more  economical,  as  the  fruit  that 
is  not  used  can  be  potted  up  afresh.  If  the  seeds  of  this 
and  of  all  preserved  fruits  are  picked  out,  which  may  be 
done  by  an  opening  at  both  ends  that  will  allow  an  ivory- 
bodkin  to  be  introduced,  they  will  keep  much  better. 
Large,  finely-shaped  pears  of  any  kind  done  in  this  way,, 
and  iced  tchite^  as  directed,  No.  1006,  look  exceedingly 
well.  Pears  are  preserved  red^  by  putting  a  grain  or  twa 
of  pounded  Qochineal  into  the  syrup,  and  pouring  red 
gooseberry  or  currant  jelly  over  them.  —  See  F^reneh- 
Compdtes,  Nos.  707  to  711. 

985.  Preserved  Apples^  or,  en  Compdte.  —  Clarify 
fine  sugar,  and  boil  nicely  pared  and  cored  pippins  in  it, 
with  a  little  lemon-juice  and  lemon-rind.  Serve  in  a  glass 
or  china  dish,  with  the  syrup  about  them,  and  garnish 
with  bunches  of  preserved  barbemes,  or  sprigs  of  myrtle. 
—  See  No.  941. 

986.  Hed  Apples,  served  in  jelly,  are  made  nearly  aa 
above.  Pare  and  core  the  most  beautiful  pippins  you  can 
get,  but  leave  the  stalks.  Throw  them  into  a  pan  of 
water  to  keep  the  colour  good  ;  boil  them  in  a  very  little 
water.  Mix  cochineal  with  the  water.  When  done,  dish 
them  heads  downmost,  and  put  sugar  to  the  red  water, 
with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  boil  it  till  it  jellies.  Strain 
it,  and,  when  clear  and  cold,  scoop  it  up  neatly  with, 
a  tea-spoon,  and  lay  it  among  the  apples  in  heaps,, 
like  roughed  calf's-feet  jelly.  Garnish  with  sprigs 
of  myrtle,  rings  of  lemon-rind,  &c.  Isinglass  may  be 
added  if  the  jelly  is  too  weak. 

987.  Oranges  in  Sugar,  a  pretty  little  Dish,  —  Skin 
four  or  five  oranges,  carefully  remove  all  the  scurf  and 
thready  parts.  Cut  them  in  round  slices,  and  dress  them 
in  a  small  glass  dish  in  hot  syrup.  Garnish  with  sprigs 
of  myrtle. 

988.  To  preserve  Apricots,  —  Always  choose  the  finest 
fruit  for  preserving.     Stone  and  pare  the  apricots,  keep- 


PBBSERYB8  OF  FRUIT.  527 

ing  them  as  finn  and  entire  as  possible.  Take  above  tlieir 
own  weight  of  pounded  sugar,  and  strew  it  over  them  for  a 
night,  laying  the  slit  part  upmost  to  keep  in  the  juices  of  the 
fruit.  Break  the  stones,  and  blanch  what  are  good  of  the 
kernels.  Simmer  the  whole  gently  till  the  fruit  looks 
transparent.  Skim  carefully,  and  lift  out  the  fruit  into 
pots,  pour  the  syrup  and  kernels  over  them,  and  cover 
when  cold  :— or  they  may  be  preserved  in  apple-jelly  ;  or 
greenedy  by  putting  a  bit  of  alum,  about  the  size  of  a  large 
nutmeg,  into  the  water  in  which  they  are  alternately 
scalded  and  cooled,  till  they  take  the  desired  colour. 
Peaches  and  greengages  may  be  preserved  as  above. — Obs. 
Sugar  for  preserved  fruit  must  be  boiled  to  the  second  or 
third  degree.  The  fmits  should  be  looked  at  for  the  first 
month,  and,  if  needful,  the  syrup  may  be  boiled  up, 
allowed  to  cool,  and  again  be  put  over  them.  If  you  put 
them  into  fresh  syrup,  and  use  the  first  for  pies,  apple- 
marmalade,  &:c.,  the  fruit  will  be  better  preserved,  and  the 
loss  nothing.— See  No.  974. 

989.  Magnvm  Bonum  and  other  Plums. — Do  them  as 
directed  for  apricots,  and  be  sure  that  the  syrup  is  well 
clarified  and  well  skimmed,  and  that  the  first  simmering 
is  slow  and  short,  or  else,  instead  of  looking  clear  and 
plump,  the  fruit  will  shrink  and  shrivel  in  spite  of  what- 
ever may  be  afterwards  done  to  plump  it. — Obs.  The  Im- 
peratrice  and  the  Winesour  are  among  the  finest  preserving 
plums. 

990.  To  preserve  Bed  Gooseberries,  —  Clip  off  the  top  of 
each  berry,  and  take  weight  for  weight  of  fruit  and  sugar. 
Clarify  the  sugar,  and  put  the  fi-uit  to  it,  having  made  a 
slit  with  a  needle  in  each  berry,  to  let  the  sugar  penetrate 
the  fruit.  Skim  well,  and  when  the  skins  look  very 
transparent,  take  up  the  fruit  with  a  sugar-skimmer  into 
glasses  or  pots.  Boil  the  syrup  till  it  will  jelly,  (if  the 
fruit  were  boiled  as  long  it  would  become  leathery,) 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  pour  it  on  the  berries. 
This  is  a  cheap  and  beautiful  preserve,  either  served  as  a 
tart  with  a  croquante  cover,  or  in  a  glass  dish.  Green 
Gaseoignes  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner,  first  greening 
them,  as  directed'for  pickles,  with  alum  and  vine  or  cabbage 


628  CHAP.  Y.-^OftHAMiHTAL  DISHBS^  &C. 

leavesy  though  this  at  hest  is,  we  confess,  a  suspicions  pio-» 
cess.  The  seeds  must  be  picked  out  of  those  green  goose- 
berries with  a  needle,  or  they  will  not  look  nor  keep 
nearly  so  well. — See  No.  973.* 

991.  To  preserve  Cherries, — Take  a  fourth  more  of  sugar 
than  of  Morella  cherries.  Cut  the  stalks ;  take  out  the 
stones  with  a  silver  bodkin  or  needle  as  gently  as  pos- 
sible; or,  if  this  be  too  troublesome,  merely  prick  the 
fruit  with  a  needle.  Clarify  the  sugar,  and  put  to  it  a 
half-pint  of  red  or  white  currant-jelly ;  and  when  this  has 
boiled  for  five  minutes,  put  in  the  cherries^  and  let  them 
simmer  till  they  look  bright. 

992.  Dried  Cherries, — Take  out  the  stones,  and  gire 
the  cherries  a  slow  boil  in  a  thin  syrup.  Let  them  remain 
in  this  for  a  day,  and  ecald  them  again  and  again,  making 
the  syrup  gradually  richer.  When  they  look  bright  and 
plump,  pot  them  up  in  the  syrup ;  and  when  wanted, 
drain  and  dry  them  on  a  stove  or  wire  sieve,  or  in  a  very 
cool  oven.  Cherries^  peaches,  apricots,  SfC,,  may  be  pre- 
served in  brandy  with  great  ease.  Prick  them  with  a 
needle,  and  drop  them  into  wide-mouthed  bottles,  with 
some  fine  sugar.  Fill  up  with  brandy,  and  cork  and 
place  the  bottles  in  a  hot- water  bath  or  cool  oven  for  some 
hours.— See  Widow  Bamahy's  Cherries. 

993.  Cherries  en  Chemise,  a  pretty  little  Dish, — Take 
the  largest  ripe  cherries  you  can  get.  Cut  off  the  stalks 
with  scissors,  leaving  about  an  inch  to  each  cherry.  Beat 
the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  and  roll  them  in  it  one  by 
one,  and  then  roll  them  lightly  in  sifted  sugar.  Lay  a 
sheet  of  paper  on  a  sieve  reversed,  and  placing  them  on 
this,  set  them  on  a  stove  till  they  are  to  be  served.— 06^. 
The  same  may  be  done  with  bunches  of  currants,  straw- 
berries, hautboys,  &c.  Fruits  en  chemise  look  well  and 
cost  little. — See  No.  707. 

994.  Cucumbers,  a  beautiful  Preserve,  —  Lay  finely- 
shaped  cucumbers  in  a  weak  pickle  of  salt  and  water  for 
two  days,  and  then  for  the  same  length  of  time  in  fresh 
water,  changing  it  twice.  Green  them  as  directed  for 
pickles,  p.  295,  and  strew  a  bit  of  alum  over  them  to 
assist  the  process.     When  alternately  scalded  and  cooled 


PRE3BRVED  FRUITS.  620 

till  they  look  of  a  fine  green,  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes 
in  water  with  fresh  vine  or  cabbage  leaves  above  and 
below  them,  and  when  cool,  cut  a  bit  out  of  the  flat  side, 
and  scrape  out  the  seeds  and  pulp.  Dry  the  cucumbers 
gently  in  a  cloth,  and  put  into  the  inside  a  seasoning  of 
bruised  cloves,  sliced  ginger,  thin  lemon-rind,  mace,  and  a 
few  white  peppercorns.  Tie  in  the  bit  cut  out  with  a 
piece  of  narrow  tape.  To  every  pound  of  fruit  have 
ready  clarified  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  when  cold  pour  it 
over  them.  Press  them  down  with  a  plate  on  which  a 
weight  is  placed,  that  they  may  be  covered ;  and  when 
they  have  soaked  two  days,  boil  up  the  syrup,  adding  one- 
half  more  of  clarified  sugar  to  it.  Repeat  the  soaking  of 
the  fruit,  and  boiling  up  of  the  syrup  three  times  during  a 
fori^night,  and,  last  of  all,  add  to  it  the  juice  and  fine  grate 
of  two  lemonH  for  every  six  cucumbers,  and,  boiling  them 
in  it  for  ten  minutes,  pot  them  up.  They  may  be  pre- 
served by  a  more  simple  process,  by  cutting  them  in 
quarters,  but  look  best  when  done  whole  and  served  in  a 
glass  dish,  with  a  little  syrup  round  them.  A  little  pine- 
apple rum  put  to  the  syrup  gives  an  imitation  of  the 
flavour  of  West  India  sweetmeats.  Melons  are  preserved 
in  the  above  manner. 

995.  To  preserve  Strawberries, — Sprinkle  sifted  fine 
sugar  equal  to  half  their  ow^n  weight,  over  the  finest  fruit 
of  the  scarlet  kind,  not  over  ripe.  When  they  have  lain 
in  this  for  a  night,  take  as  much  sugar  again ;  or,  in  all, 
equal  weight  to  the  fruit,  and  with  currant-juice  make  it 
into  a  thin  syrup,  and  simmer  the  fruit  in  this  till  it  will 
jelly.     Serve  either  as  an  iced  cream,  or  in  a  glass  dish. 

996.  To  preserve  carved  Oranges  whole. — Choose  large 
well-shaped  and  well-coloured  smooth  oranges.  Rub  them 
hard  with  a  towel ;  and  then,  with  a  sharp  penknife,  or 
the  knife  made  for  this  purpose,  carve  the  rind  in  deeply- 
indented  leaves,  or  in  groups  of  dancing-nymphs,  &c. 
according  to  your  fancy  (to  do  this  well  the  thing  must  be 
seen.)  Boil  them,  thus  carved,  in  plenty  of  spring-water, 
and  when  quite  soft  take  them  up  and  drain  them.  Cut 
a  piece  out  of  the  top  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  with  a 
mustard-spoon  scoop  out  all  the  pulp,  seeds,  and  fibres. 

2l     — 


530  CHAP.  T.— OBNAMBirrAI.  DISHES,  &C. 

Dotl  them  filled  with  and  floated  in  clarified  symp  for 
forty  minutes.  In  four  days  repeat  the  boiling  for  twenty 
minutes.  Do  this  four  times.  Last  of  all  boil  the  syrup 
candy-high,  adding  more  syrup,  and  keep  the  oranges  well 
covered  with  it.  If  the  colour  fall,  boil  them  up,  and  add 
fresh  syrup. — Oh§,  Several  pretty  dishes  are  made  with 
preserved  oranges.  'I  hey  may  be  filled  with  rich  custard, 
with  caWes'  feet  jelly,  or  other  jellies,  or  with  a  mixtare 
of  beat  almonds,  sugar,  cream,  and  seasonings.  —  See 
Orangti  in  Sugary  page  626. 

TABLBIB  AND  COKFECTIONART  DROFB. 

A  FBW  receipts  in  this  department  may  be  useful  in  most 
families,  as  these  tilings  are  cordial  and  sometimes  even 
medicinal,  and  may  be  easily  and  cheaply  prepared  at  horn  e^ 

997.  To  make  Cinnamon,  Lemon,  Horehound,  or 
Ginger  Tablei.^^Ttike  either  oil  of  cinnamon,  fine  sifted 
China  ginger,  essence  or  grate  of  lemon  pounded,  in  the 
proportion  wanted  for  flavouring  the  article  to  be  made. 
Two  drops  of  oil  of  cinnamon,  a  half--ounce  of  ginger,  ot 
tlie  grate  of  two  lemons,  is  a  medium  quantity  to  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Mix  the  flavouring  ingredient  very  well  with 
the  boiling  sugar,  and  pour  it  out,  when  boiled  candy* 
height,  on  a  marble  slab  or  stojie  previously  rubbed  with 
sweet  oil.  Mark  the  tablet  quivkly  (as  it  hardens)  in  small 
squares,  with  a  roller  and  knife.  Drops  may  be  made 
with  the  same  material,  dropping  it  regularly  on  papef, 
and  taking  the  drops  ofi^  with  a  knife  when  firm.  Any 
kind  of  eugar-drope  may  be  made  by  using  different 
flavouring  ingredients  to  moisten  the  sugar ;  as,  for  ex- 
ample, for  coffee-drops  use  a  little  strong  clear  tincture  of 
the  coffee-berry;  for  clove-drops,  essence  of  cloves;  for 
peppermint-^rops,  essence  of  peppermint,  and  so  on. 

996.  Fruit  Pastes.  —  Oranges,  apples,  cherries,  pears, 
rasp-berries,  &c.,  may  all  be  made  into  paste.  Boil  the 
pared  fi-uit  with  clarified  sugar  to  a  thick  marmalade. 
Season,  and  mould  it  into  thin  cakes.  Dry  these  in  a  stove. 
The  pastes  must  be  small,  but  of  any  form  or  variety  of 
forms ;  they  may  be  ornamented  by  having  the  impress  of 
some  of  the  Wedgewood-ware  seals,  groups  from  the 
antique^  &c.  pressed  upon  them  while  still  moist. 


TABLETS  AND  DKOVS.  JSSl 

999.  Ratafia^Dr^ps, — Blanch  and  pound,  with  an  ounoe 
of  fine  sugar  and  a  tittle  water,  four  ounces  of  bitter  and 
two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds.  Add  to  the  paste  a  pound 
af  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  noyeau«  Beat 
the  whole  well,  and  when  light,  drop  the  batter  from 
a  biscuit-funnel  on  paper,  of  the  size  of  pigeons*  eggs,  and 
bake  on  tins. 

lOdO.  To  make  BarUj^-Suffdur. — Clarify,  and  boil  sugar 
to  the  fourth  degree,  or  cracklmg  height,  and  when  nearly 
boiled  enough,  add  to  it  lemon  grate,  a  dro|»  of  citron-oii, 
or  a  little  beat  spermaceti,  according  to  the  sort  of  barley* 
sugar  wanted.  Rub  a  slab  or  dishes  with  oil,  and  when 
the  sugar  is  ready,  dip  the  pan  in  cold  water  for  two 
minutes,  and  then  pour  it  out  on  the  slab.  Cut  the  sugar 
into  slips,  and  while  hot  twist  it,  if  you  choose.  Care 
must  be  taken  in  boiling  sugar  to  Uiis  height,  that  it  doe* 
■ot  bum  or  fiy  over  ;  to  prevent  which,  a  small  bit  of 
butter  may  be  thrown  in  to  check  the  violent  e})ullition  i 
— add  a  little  lemon-juice  if  it  be  in  danger  of  ^raining^ 
This  may  also  be  made  as  small  lozenges  or  drops.  It  is 
often  acidulated  with  pounded  tartaric  acid,  and  is  then 
termed  Acidulated  Drops, 

1000."  Grand-mamma* s  Bon-bons.  —  Cut  candied 
citron  or  orange-peel  into  strips  an  inch  long,  and  as  small 
dice:  string  them  up  on  a  fine  wire  skewer,  or  knitting  needle, 
and  dip  them  in  boiling  barley-sugar  flavoured  in  any 
way  you  prefer.  Have  a  baking  slab,  or  large  flat  dish 
rubbed  with  oil,  that  they  may  not  stick,  and  lay  them  to 
dry.  When  crisp  pack  them  in  paper  bags.  With 
candied  sugar,  for  a  basis,  an  endless  variety  of  prepara- 
tions, as  Bock,  Brilliants^  lozenges  of  various  sorts,  are 
made.  Flavour  and  colour  make  the  ra>iin  diiferenoe. 
Flour  is  used  to  give  consistence  to  the  chea[)er  sorts. 

1001.  Candied  Orange  and  Lemon  Ped. — Soak  the 
peel  of  lemons  or  Seville  oranges  first-in  salt  and  water, 
and  afterwards  in  fresh  water,  till  their  acrid  taste  is 
gone.  Dry  them,  and  boil  them  till  tender  in  a  thin 
syrup ;  afterwards  in  a  stronger  syrup  boiled  higher ;  next 
drain  and  dry  them  for  use. 

Tofee  and  Hardbake.  —  For  Tofee,  — Boil  a  pound  of 


5d2  CHAP.  T.— ORN AMBNTAL  DI8HE8,  &C. 

pounded  sugar  in  eight  ounces  of  melted  butter,  in  a  very 
small  preserving  pan  :  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  add  a 
flavouring  of  lemon  or  ginger.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes 
more,  stirring  constantly,  and  try  the  tofee,  by  dropping 
a  particle  in  cold  water.  If  it  get  instantly  crisp  and 
crack  between  the  teeth,  pour  it  out  on  slabs  or  flat  dishes 
rubbed  with  butter.  Tofee  may  have  spermaceti  put  to 
it :  Hardbake  contains  no  butter :  it  is  prepared  as  sugar 
for  caramels. 

1002.  Ro9e  Souffle  Cake$.  —  Pick  a  handful  of  rose- 
leaves,  and  give  them  a  boil  in  a  syrup  made  of  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Have  ready  an  icing  made  of  two  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  the  white  of  an  egg  well  beat  up  and  tinged 
with  cochineal.  Stir  a  spoonful  of  this  into  the  syrup  till 
it  rises  ;  fill  the  small  moulds,  and  bake.  — ^  Obs,  Confec- 
tioners use  carmine  or  lake-powder  for  rose-coloured  cakes, 
and  so  have  Rose  souffle  cakes  in  full  bloom  all  the  year 
xound.      , 

1003.  To  make  Devices  and  Ornaments  in  Su^ar, — ^Make 
a  paste  of  the  finest  loaf-sugar  and  gum  tragacanth  steeped 
in  rose-water,  or  any  flavoured  water,  and  mould  and 
colour  the  ornaments  as  best  suits  the  purpose  for  which 
they  are  intended  ;  as  rose  with  cochineal,  yellow  with 
gamboge ;  green  with  spinage-juice. 

1004.  Noiugat  in  the  French,  Style. — Blanch  a  half-pound 
of  almonds  and  six  bitter  ones.     When  the  peel  is  ofi^,  cut 
them  into  dice.     Dry  them  thoroughly  before  the  fire  or 
in  an  oven,  but  do  not  let  them  brown  much.    Put  a  half- 
pound  of  superfine  sifted  sugar  into  a  small  preserving-pan 
over  a  very  slow  fire,  without  a  drop  of  water.     When  it 
is  melted,  throw  in  the  cut  almonds  quite  diy.      Stir  and 
turn  out  the  paste,  as  it  will  now  be,  on  a  mould  rubbed 
with  oil  or  butter,  or  on  a  marble  slab.      It  must  be 
quickly  worked,  as  it  will  harden.      It  may  be  made  in 
a  variety  of  forms.     If  flat,  press  it  quickly  with  an  oiled 
rolling-pin,  and  cut  it  up  in  oblong  slips.      Cinnamon  or 
small  white  nonpareil  comfits  may  be  strewed  over  the 
surface  while  hot.  —  N.B.  Nomgaty  and  the  Devices  of  No. 
1003,  should  he  left  to  the  confectioner. 


OBSBRTATI0N8  ON  CAKES.  6QQ 

OBSERTATIONS  ON  CAKES. 

Before  beginning  to  make  any  sort  of  cake,  have  sugar 
beat  and  sifted  ;  flour  of  good  quality  dry  and  sifted ;  the 
fruit  stoned  or  picked,  washed,  and  dry,  and  rubbed  in  a 
towel ;  the  lemon -peel  pared,  or  beat  to  paste  in  a  mortar, 
with  a  little  cream ;  the  butter,  when  this  is  used  for 
light  cakes,  beaten  to  a  cream;  and,  above  all,  have 
the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  well  whisked.  A 
large  tin  basin  answera  best  for  this  purpose,  as  the  yolks 
or  butter  can  be  heated  in  this  a  little  over  the  fiire  while 
the  whisking  is  going  on,  which  assists  the  process.  It  is 
a  good  test  of  beat  eggs  when  they  are  so  thick  as  to  carry 
the  drop  that  falls  from  the  whisk.  If  eggs  are  not  pro- 
perly managed  at  first,  it  is  difficult  to  raise  them  to  a 
cream  afterwards.  It  ought  to  be  remembered  that  eggs, 
besides  enriching  cakes,  are  intended  to  supply  the  place 
of  yeast.  When  the  several  ingredients  are  well  mixed, 
they  ought  immediately  to  be  put  into  the  oven,  that  the 
fruit  may  not  sink  :  If,  however,  yeast  is  used,  the  cake 
must  stand  for  some  time  to  rise.  Yeast  should  be  sweet, 
white,  and  thick.  It  may  be  improved  by  blanching  it 
repeatedly  with  water,  allowing  it  to  settle,  and  then 
pouring  the  water  off.  It  saves  hard  labour  to  half  melt 
butter  before  beating  it  to  a  cream. 

The  thing  next  to  be  attended  to  is  the  state  of  the  oven. 
It  must  not  only  be  thoroughly  heated  previously,  but  have 
a  quick  heat  when  the  cake  is  put  in.  Folds  of  paper  ought 
to  be  put  over  cakes  when  put  into  the  oven,  lest  the  top 
get  scorched.  Plunging  a  knife  into  the  heart  of  a  cake, 
and  drawing  it  quickly  out,  is  the  best  mode  of  judging 
whether  it  be  ready*  If  not  enough,  the  blade  of  the 
knife  will  be  glary,  and  the  cake  must  be  instantly  re- 
turned to  the  oven.  The  heat  ought  to  be  kept  up  through- 
out, by  adding  fresh  fuel  occasionally  till  the  cake  is 
drawn ;  but,  above  all,  attention  must  be  given  till  it  is 
once  properly  raised.  The  same  observations  apply  to 
pastry,  and  to  the  getting  of  puddings.  Cakes  ought  to  be 
kept  in  a  dry  place,  wrapped  up  and  set  in  a  close  jar  to 
keep  them  from  hardening.  They  will  keep  thus  a  very 
long  time.    They  may  be  heated  on  the  hob  or  in  a  slack 


M4  CBAF.  r^^HomAmmitAL  mauB,  &c. 

OTen  to  refresh  them,  when  to  he  used.    Cake  moulds  and 
hoops  aie  of  ▼arioos  kinds  and  forms,  and  mnsi  be  bought. 

1005.  To  tee  and  fffate  Paltry  and  CaJteg.^Th»  IB  doBte 
with  the  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar ;  and  in  a  common  waj 
is  a  very  simple  process.  Yolis  of  eggs  ^laze  cakes,  thongii 
coarsely,  efFectnally ;  bat  sifting  fine  sugar  oyer  little  cakes 
and  biscnits  before  they  are  pat  into  the  oven,  or  when 
half- baked,  will  do  them  weU  enongh.  —  See  also  p.  466. 

1006.  To  Ice  or  Frott  a  Home-made  Bride  e  Qdce,  or  veny 
iarffe  Pium-caie. — To  a  half  pound  of  fine  sifted  sugar  pnt 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  with  a  iittle  orange>flower- 
water,  or  simple  water,  and  strain.  With  this  whisk  the 
sugar  for  a  long  time,  till  it  is  quite  smooth.  This  may  be 
tinged  with  the  juice  of  strawberries  or  currants^  or  with  pre- 
pared cochineal.  For  a  bride's  cake  confectioners  use  lake 
or  cochineal.  Lay  the  icing  equnlly  on  lai^  cakes  with  a 
flat  spoon.  Brash  small  ones  with  a  few.  feathers  dipt  in 
the  mixture.  Lemon  juice  well  beat  with  the  sugar  and 
white  of  eggs  will  make  a  white  icing.  No  other  white  icing 
is  admissible,  yet  dangerous  ingredients  are  sometimes  used. 

1007.  A  plain  Pound-cake, — Beat  a  pound  of  cold 
butter  to  a  cream,  and  put  to  it  nine  eggs  well  beat.  Beat 
them  together  till  well  mixed  and  light ;  and  put  to  them  a 
little  shred  lemon-peel,  or  a  few  blanched  almonds  chopped, 
sugar  to  taste,  and  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  dried  and 
sifted  flour.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  pan  for  an  hour,  in  a 
rather  quick  oven  ;  or  two  small  cakes  may  be  made  of 
the  same  ingredients.  —  Obe,  This  may  be  made  a  pUdn 
plum-eaJtey  by  putting  to  it  a  half-pound  of  currants,  a 
few  raisins,  and  a  half-pound  of  candied  lemon  and  orange- 
peel,  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  It  may  also 
be  conTerted  into  a  fine  Seed-eaJtCy  by  adding  caraway  and 
coriander  seeds  to  the  plain  cake. 

1006.  A  plain  Plum-eake, — Use  as  much  flour,  butter, 
and  sugar,  as  are  ordered  in  the  next  receipt,  but  take 
only  half  the  quantity  of  fruit,  candied  peel,  and  eggs. 
Season  with  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
half-pint  of  hot  cream.  Mix  with  the  beat  eggs  three 
spoonfuls  of  good  yeast  Beat  the  whole  together ;  and  if 
the  stufi"  be  too  thick,  add  a  little  sweet  wine  to  it,  or 


pluiitCakk.  535 

more  cream.  Pour  it  into  a  battered  pan,  and  let  it  rise 
before  the  fire  before  it  is  put  into  the  oven,  which  should 
be  strongly  heated. 

1009.  A  rich  Plum-cake. — Take  equal  weight  of  cur* 
rants  and  flour;  about  a  pound  of  each  will  make  a  cake 
of  good  size  ;  a  pound  and  a  half  will  make  a  large  one. 
Beat  twelve  ounces  of  fresh  butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  ako 
sixteen  eggs  to  a  cream  with  a  whisk  in  a  tin  pan,  and  set 
them  over  the  fire  with  &  pound  of  siftod  sugar,  whisking 
all  the  time.  When  warm  take  them  off,  and  continue  to . 
beat  till  they  are  cold,  when  the  butter  must  be  well 
mixed  with  them,  and  then  the  currants,  which  should  be 
previously  picked,  dried  in  a  cloth,  and  rubbed  in  flour. 
Put  to  this  a  half-pound  of  candied  citron,  lemon,  and 
orange-peel  cut  in  long  bite,  a  half-ounce  of  bitter  almonds 
beat  to  a  paste  with  a  little  sugar,  two  ounces  of  sweet 
almonds  blanched  and  sliced  the  Long  way,  half  an  ounce 
of  pounded  cinnamon  and  mace,  and  a  little  Cura^oa,  or 
any  highly-flavoured  liquor,  or  plain  brandy.  Paper  a 
hoop  and  pour  in  the  cake.* 

1010.  Mfee-caie,  —  Mix  half,  a  pound  of  sifted  rice-flour 
with  a  half-pound  of  loaf-sugar  sifted,  and  put  this  to  six 
eggs  well  whisked  and  strained.  Season  with  a  little 
ratofia  and  orange-flower-water,  and  a  drop  or  two  of 
essence  of  lemon,  or  some  fine-grated  rind  of  lemon.  Beat 
the  whole  together  for  twenty  minutes,  and  fire  in  a  quick 
oven.  —  Ohs,  This  is  an  excellent  cake  for  a  trifle,  but  it 
will  not  keep  long.  A  small  proportion  of  wheat-flour 
may  be  mixed  with  the  rice-flour. 

1011.  A  fine  SudrcaktA  —  Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour,  and  sixteen  eggs  well  whisked.  Mix  with  them  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  fine  beat  sugar,  and  whisk  them  tho- 
roughly together.  Throw  in  a  half-  pound  of  cut  candied 
eitron,  lemon,  and  orange-peel,  and  fimr  ounces  of  almonds 
blanched  and  cut.  Mix  this  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
dried  flour,  and  twelve  ounces  of  butter  beat  to  a  cream. 

*  Sal  volatile  is  sometimes  used  to  make  cake*  rise,  or  more  properly 
to  prevent  them  from  flatteniDg,  by  keeping  the  butter,  &c.  from  oiling. 

■f  **  When/*  says  ancient  Trusser,  **  the  wheat-^ed  is  put  into  the 
ground,  the  village  is  to  be  treated  with  seed-ctikf.^  pasties,  and  fru- 
mentie-pot.**    Ah !  when  now  do  villages  get  such  treats ! 


l^d  CHAP.  T.—- OBKAMBHTAL  DISHES,  &C. 

Season  with  cinnamon  and  clores,  and  throw  in  a  few 
caraway-seeds.  Smooth  the  top  of  this  (and  every  sort 
of  cake)  when  put  into  the  hoop,  and  throw  sugared 
caraways  over  it. 

1012.  A  common  Seed-^ake.  —  Mix  a  half-pound  of  beat 
white  sugar  with  two  pounds  of  flour  in  a  large  bowl  or 
pan.  Make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  and  pour  into  it  a  half- 
pint  of  luke-warm  milk,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast.  Mix 
a  little  of  the  surrounding  flour  with  this,  and,  throwing  a 
cloth  oyer  the  vessel,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour 
or  two.  Add  to  this  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  an 
ounce  of  caraway  seeds,  a  little  allspice,  ginger,  and  nut- 
meg, and  milk  sufficient  to  make  the  whole  of  a  proper 
stifiness.  Mix  it  up.  Butter  a  hoop,  and  pour  in  the 
mixture.  Let  it  stand  a  half-hour  at  the  mouth  of  the 
oven  to  rise,  and  then  bake  it. 

1013.  Rice-cake  for  the  Cemre  of  a  TahUy  —  the  If'rench 
Oateau  de  Biz,  ^-  Prepare  the  rice  as  for  a  casserole,  (see 
page  370,)  and  for  four  ounces  of  rice  take  a  quart  of 
boiled  cream,  in  which  the  peel  of  a  lemon  has  been  in- 
fused. Let  them  soak  till  the  rice  has  absorbed  all  the 
cream,  and  is  swelled.  Sweeten  this  with  fine  sugar,  and 
season  with  essence  of  lemon.  When  cool  add  the  beat 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  the  whites  well  whisked  by  themselves^ 
and  also  a  good  piece  of  butter.  Then  pour  four  ounces 
of  melted  butter  into  the  mould,  and  turn  it  round  and 
round  till  the  cooling  butter  adheres  in  a  coat  to  all  sides 
of  it.  Next  cover  the  mould  with  fine  bread-crumbs ; 
and  this  done  pour  in  the  cake.  Bake  it  for  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven,  turn  it  upside  down  on  the  dish,  and 
garnish  it  with  flowers^  &c. — Obs.  If  any  of  the  material 
is  left  after  filling  the  mould,  roll  it  up  in  the  shape  of 
corks,  dip  them  in  butter,  and  fry  as  fritters.  Dressed 
round  fried  parsley,  they  are  called  croquets  of  rice.  A 
dozen  sweet  and  a  few  bitter  almonds  chopped  may  be  put 
to  this  cake  ;  and  it  may  be  made  of  vermicelli,  or  served 
as  a  pudding,  with  a  custard- sauce. 

1014.  Scotch  Diet-cakCy  or  Loaf. — Take  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar  sifted,  the  same  weight  of  eggs  very  well  whisked,  and 
mix  and  beat  these  together  for  twenty  minutes.     Season 


SHORTBREAD.  63? 

with  lemon-grate  and  cinnamon.      Stir  in  very  smoothly 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour.     This  is  a  very 
light  cake,  and  will  bake  quickly.     It  may  either  be  iced,  - 
or  have  sifted  sugar  strewed  over  it  before  baking. 

1015.  Scottish  Shartbready  or  Short-cake, — To  the  fourth 
of  a  peck  of  flour,  take  six  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  and  of 
candied  citron,  orange-pee],  and  blanched  almonds,  two 
ounces  each.  Cut  these  in  rather  long  slices,  and  mix 
them  with  the  flour. .  Rub  down  among  the  flour  a  pound 
of  butter  in  very  small  bits,  melt  a  half-pound  more,  and 
vnth  this  work  up  the  flour,  &c.  The  less  kneading  it 
gets  the  more  short  and  crisp  the  cakes  will  be.  BoU  out 
the  paste  lightly  into  a  large  well-shaped  oval  cake,  about 
an  inch  thick,  and  divide  this  the  narrow  way,  so 
as  to  have  two  cakes  somewhat  the  shape  of  a  Gothic 
arch.  Pinch  the  cakes  neatly  at  the  edges,  and  dab  them 
on  the  top  with  the  instrument,  the  dMeTy  used  for  the 
purpose,  or  with  a  fork.  Strew  caraway- comfits  over  the 
top,  and  a  few  strips  of  citron-peel.  Bake  on  paper, 
rubbed  with  flour.  The  cakes  may  be  squares,  or  oblong 
figures. — Obs,  Plainer  shortbread  may  be  made  by  using 
less  butter  and  no  candied  peel.  The  whole  of  the  butter 
may  be  melted,  which  makes  the  process  easier.  Chopped 
almonds,  and  butter,  are  used  in  larger  quantity  for 
very  rich  shortbread. 

1016.  Savoy  or  Sponge  Cake. — Whisk  twelve  eggs  till 
white  and  thick,  and  mix  with  them  a  pound  of  sifted 
sugar.  Beat  these  very  well  together,  and  then  gradually 
mix  in  a  half-pound  of  flour,  a  seasoning  of  essence  of 
lemon,  or  lemon-grate,  and  a  little  orange-flower- water* 
Butter  a  melon  or  Turk's-cap  mould,  and  fill  it  within 
two  inches  of  the  top.  Bake  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  and,  when  ready,  take  out  the  cake,  shaking  the 
mould  to  loosen  it.  Sponge-biscuits,  of  the  same  material 
are  baked  in  small  tin  shapes,  and  iced  or  glazed  ^ith  sifted 
sugar.  —  Obs,  These  light  cakes,  or  the  remains  of  them, 
are  well  suited  to  fine  puddings,  Trifles,  or  Tipsy-cake. 

1017.  Macaroons.* — Blanch  and  pound  with  the  whites 

*  An  endleM  variety  of  small  biscuit  is  made  in  the  manner  of  maca- 
roons, as  light  lemon-biscnit,  by  using  grated  peel  and  the  yolks  q* 


638  CHAP.  v. — ORNAllSirTAL  mSHBlly  &e, 

of  foar  eggs  a  p««iind  of  Jordan  almonds.  Add  to  thb 
two  pounds  of  fine  sugar,  and  pound  these  ingredients  to  a 
paste  ;  then  put  in  eight  more  wiiites  of  eggs.  Beat  the 
whole  well  together ;  fill  a  hiscuit-syringe,  and  squirt  the 
macaroons  on  wafer-paper,  and  fire  them  slowly  on  tins. 
RaUifia-cakes  may  l)e  made  as  aboFS,  by  using  one-haif 
bitter  almonds.  Drop  the  biscuit  from  a  knife,  instead  of 
a  squirt,  if  you  have  no  squirt.  Rice-flour  is  sometioaes 
substituted  for  part  of  the  almonds. 

1018.  Plain  Gingerbread.^- Mis.  with  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter,  four  of  brown-sugar, 
a  half  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  and  some  allspice.  Make 
this  into  a  paste  with  two  ounces  of  hot  treacle,  and  shape 
and  bake  the  cakes. 

1018.*  Mrs,  Fletcher's  Parliament  Calee. -^With  two 
pounds  of  the  best  flour  dried,  mix  thoroughly  one  pound  of 
good  brown  sugar  and  a  quarter-pound  of  ground  ginger. 
Melt  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  add  to  it  one  of  treacle,  boil 
this,  and  pour  it  on  the  flour  ;  work  up  the  paste  as  hot 
as  your  hands  will  l>ear  it,  and  roU  it  out  in  very  lhrg% 
cakes,  the  sixth  of  an  inch  thick  or  less  ;  mark  it  in 
squares  with  a  knife  or  paper  cutter,  and  fire  in  a  slow 
oven  only  till  crisp.     Separate  the  squares  while  hot. 

1019.  IHne  Otnfferhread.^^T wo  pounds  of  flour,  a  half- 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  half-pound  of  candied  orange- 
peel  cut  into  bits,  an  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  half  an 
ounce  of  caraway^seeds,  cloves,  mace,  and  some  allspice. 
Mix  with  tiiese  a  pound  and  a  half  of  treacle,  and  a  half* 
pound  of  melted  butter.  Mix  the  ingredients  well  to- 
gether, and  let  them  stand  for  some  hours  before  rolltag 
out  the  cakes.  The  paste  will  require  a  little  additional 
flour  in  rolling  out.  Cut  out  the  cakes,  mark  the  top  in 
diamonds  with  a  knife,  and  bake  them  on  tin  plates. 

1020.  Qin^/erbread  Nuts  or  Spice  NuU  may  be  made  of 
the  above4>aste,  but  a  little  more  ginger  and  other  q>ices 
should  be  employed,  and  a  little  more  flour.  Drop  the 
paste  from  a  spoon  on  paper,  and  bake.  -^  Chyenne  rather 
improves  gingerbread. — ^P.  T, 

three  ^gs  ;  chocolate  biscuit,  onuigo  and  common  hiaeait ;  Judges* 
hiscait,  i,  e.  biscuit  for  hungiy  lawyors,  kept  long  in  court. 


1021.  Wine  £tseuit4 — Have  a  pound  of  the  finest  flour, 
**  thrice-bolted,"  dry  and  sifted.  Rub  down  among  it 
three  ounces  of  butter ;  add  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Make 
a  dough  of  this  with  warm  good  milk,  and  a  spoonful  of 
sweet  yeast.  Knead  it  quickly  up,  and  let  it  repose  an 
hour.  Roll  it  out  thin  and  stamp,  and  then  prick  tlie  bis- 
cuits with  a  dabber.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

1022.  Imitatitm  of  lAMwn^s  *  Biscuit.  —  To  the  above 
dough  puta  bit  of  volatile  salt.  Roll  out,  and  mould  in 
the  form  of  Leman's  biscuit  in  square  and  oblong  figures, 
and  balls  flattened.     Prick  and  fire  them  lightly. 

SMALL  TEA-CAKES.f 

1023.  Good  Tea-Cakes. — Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into 
eight  ounces  of  flour,  and  mix  with  this  six  ounces  of 
cleaned  currants,  the  same  of  beat  sugar,  and  three  beat 
eggs.  Make  this  into  a  paste,  and  roll  it  out  about  a  half- 
inch  thick,  and  stamp  out  the  cakes  of  any  size  you 
please  with  an  inverted  wine-glass,  ale-glass,  or  small 
tumbler,  by  running  a  paste-cutter  round  the  glass.  Dust 
the  top  with  sugar,  with  which,  for  all  these  small  cakes,  a 
few  finely  chopped  almonds  may  be  mixed. 

1024.  TunMdffe  and  Shrewsbury  Cakes, — Make  them  as 

*  While  the  House  of  the  Great  Leman  flourishes  in  London,  and 
tiiat  of  the  not  less  famous  LitUejohn  in  Edinbura^h,  we  would  say  buy 
bitcuitt  and  ruskB,  and  jou  will  l>e  sure  to  have  the  best.~~W.  W. 

ir  The  greatest  difficulty  we  have  experienced  in  correcting  the  various 
editions  of  Uiis  immortal  work,  has  been  in  restraining  the  headlong 
torrent  of  our  extensive  culinary  knowledge  within  reasonable  bounds : 
what  to  tell,  and  what  to  suppress — not  when  to  begin,  but  wliere  to 
have  done  prescribing,  has  been  our  stumbling-block.  We  confess  a 
strong  natural  leaning  to  the  side  of  plenty— nay,  of  abundance — ^and  of 
good-nature.  If  the  solitary  gourmand  have  his  scUmi,  his  ro^/nofrs,  his 
**  sot^  a  la  Ckumeranif^  who  would  deny  to  the  spinster  her  cordial 
waters,  and  the  netticoat-taila  (No.  102b')  that  grace  her  tea-table  ;  or 
to  the  schoolboy  his  mince-pie  and  "  hot  cross-bun  ?**  Besides,  at  our 
table  d*h6te  every  kind  of  guest  expects  to  find  what  will  suit  both  his 

elate,  his  ^urse,  and  his  humour.  "  We  always,"  says  the  chief  of 
odern  Reviewers,  "  fancied  the  description  of  Harriet  Byron's  wed- 
ding-clothes (in  Sir  Charles  Grandison)  de  trop^  till  we  found  that  two 
young  ladies  of  our  acquaintance  had  copied  out  the  whole  passage  for 
their  private  entertainment.**  We  quote  from  memory,  but  this  is  the 
idea,— and  this  must  be  our  apology  for  the  superfluous  variety  of  our 
puddifUfg,  cakeSf  liqueurSf  and  even  sauces^ — the  half  of  the  number  here 
BOtieedcannot  be  used  in  any  sinffle  family  ;  yet,  for  the  many  families 
into  whose  hands  our  work  may  nil,  it  is  requisite  that  they  should  all 
be  known. — P.  T.  Small  tea-cakes,  and  even  shortbread,  may  be  baked 
in  the  American  Despatch. 


640  CHAP,  y.— ORNAMENTAL  DlsmSy  &C. 

above,  of  any  size  you  please,  and  strew  carawAy-comfits 
over. — For  Shremhwy  Caieg,  -  Beat  half  a  pound  of  cold 
butter  to  a  cream,  and  mix  with  it  six  ounces  of  sifted 
sugar,  eight  ounces  of  flour,  a  few  caraway-seeds,  and 
some  pounded  cinnamon,  two  eggs  beat,  and  a  little  rose- 
water.  Roll  out  the  paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness,  adding  a  little  more  flour  if  necessary,  and  stamp  ont 
^he  cakes  of  any  shape  or  size  that  is  liked. 

1025.  Bath  Gates  and  Buns.-^RvLh  half  a  pound  of 
butter  into  a  pound  of  flour,  and  add  four  beat  eggs  and  a 
glassful  of  yeast.  Set  this  before  the  fire  to  rise ;  then 
add  four  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  and  a  few  caraway-seeds. 
Roll  the  paste  into  thin  sheets,  and  stamp  them  out. 
Bake  them  on  tins.  They  should  rise  very  light. — Obs* 
This  is  made  into  Bath-Buns  by  moulding  the  pasl^  in  the 
shape  of  buns,  and  strewing  a  few  sugar-caraways  oyer 
the  tops.  These  Bath-buns  are  almost  the  same  prepara- 
tion as  the  Brioche  cakes,  so  much  eaten  and  talked  of  in 
Paris. 

1026.  Seokh  Pettieoai' Tails.— -Mix  a  half-ounce  (or 
fewer,  or  none)  of  caraway  seeds  with  the  fourth  of  a  peck 
of  flour.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  and 
pour  into  it  twelve  ounces  of  butter  melted  in  a  quarter- 
pint  of  milk,  and  three  ounces  of  beat  sugar.  Knead 
this,  but  not  too  much,  or  it  will  not  be  short;  divide  it  in 
two,  and  roll  it  out  round  rather  thin.  Cut  out  the  cake 
by  running  a  paste-cutter  round  a  dinner-plate,  or  any 
large  round  dish  inverted  on  the  paste.  Cut  a  cake  from 
the  centre  of  this  one  with  a  small  saucer  or  large  tumbler. 
Keep  this  inner  circle  whole,  and  cut  the  outer  one  into 
eight  petUeoat-tails.  Bake  all  these  on  paper  laid  on  tins, 
serve  the  round  cake  in  the  middle  of  the  plate,  and  the 
petticoat-tails  as  radii  round  it — An  English  traveller  in 
Scotland,  and  one  well  acquainted  with  France,  states  in 
his  very  pleasant  book  that  our  Club  have  fallen  into  a 
mistake  in  the  name  of  these  cakes,  and  that  petticoat-tails 
is  a  corruption  of  the  French  Petites  Gatelles,  It  may  be 
so :  in  Scottish  culinary  terms  there  are  many  corruptions, 
though  we  rather  think  the  name  Petticoat-tails  has  its 
origin  in  the  shape  of  the  cake,  which  is  exactly  that  of 
the  bell-hoop  petticoat  of  our  ancient  Court  ladies. 


TEA  CAKES.  54l 

1027. — Flour  Scones,  or  Slim  Cakes,  are  often  used  in 
the  Highlands,  and  in  country  situations,  for  breakfast  or 
tea.  To  a  pound  of  flour  allow  from  two  to  four  ounces 
of  butter,  as  much  hot  milk  as  will  make  a  dough  of  the 
flour,  and  two  beat  eggs,  if  the  cakes  are  wished  to  rise. 
Handle  quickly,  and  lightly  roll  out  and  stamp  of  any 
size  wanted,  with  a  basin,  a  saucer,  or  tumbler.  Bake  on 
the  girdle,  or  in  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan.  They  must 
be  served  hot,  kept  in  a  heap,  and  used  newly  baked,  as 
on  keeping  they  become  tough.  Sometimes  for  rich 
scones  cream  only  is  used. 

1027.'  Johnny  Cakes  0/ Indian  MeaL — Put  a  very  little 
salt  to  a  quart  of  Indian  meal.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle 
of  the  heap,  and  mix  in  warm  water,  as  in  making  any 
other  dough,  till  it  is  a  firm,  but  not  hard  dough.  Knead 
it  very  well,  and  roll  out  an  inch  thick,  or  rather  less. 
Have  the  girdle  hot  over  a  clear,  sharp  fire,  and  rub  it  with 
a  bit  of  butter.  Lay  on  the  cake,  and  when  one  side  is 
done,  turn  it  and  toast  the  other,  handling  carefully,  as  it 
easily  breaks.  Cut  it  in  slices  and  serve  hot,  or  split  and 
butter  them  while  hot,  and  serve.  This  is  the  most 
popular  of  the  American  cakes. 

1028.  Queen^s  CaJnes* — Make  these  as  pound-cake  or 
plum-cake ;  but  bake  in  small  saucers,  or  in  the  fluted 
tins  made  for  the  purpose. 

1029.  Cinnamon-Cakes, — ^Whisk  six  eggs  with  a  glass 
of  rose-water  ;  add  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  and  a  quarter- 
ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a 
paste.  Roll  this  out,  and  stamp  it  into  small  cakes. 
Bake  them  on  paper.  They  may  be  iced,  or  have  sifted 
sugar  strewed  over  them. 

1030.  Sugar  Teor-Cakes* — Make  a  paste  with  a  pound  of 
flour,  twelve  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  and  a  glass  of  orange-flower- 
water.  Roll  it  out  thin,  cut  with  a  stamp  or  glass  in- 
verted, strew  sugar  over  the  cakes,  and  bake. 

1031.  Derby  Shorttakes. — Rub  down  a  pound  of  butter 
into  two  pounds  of  flour,  and  mix  with  this  a  half-pound 
of  beat  sugar,  an  egg,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a 
paste.     Roll  this  out  thin,  and  cut  out  the  cakes  in  any 


542  CHAP.  T. — OONAIIBNTAL  DISHES,  &C. 

form.     Bake  on  tin  plates  for  about  ten  minutes.     They 
may  be  iced,  or  have  sifted  sugar  strewed  over  them. 

1032.  KeiU  Drop'Cake$* — ^A  pound  of  flour,  a  half- 
pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  sifted  sugar  and  currants. 
Make  this  into  a  paste  with  two  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of 
orange-flower-water,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  one  of  sweet 
wine.  Mix  up  quickly,  and  drop  the  batter  through  a 
biscuit-funnel  on  floured  tins,  and  bake  for  Ave  or  six 
minaies. 

1033.  Baut-Caies, — To  the  beat  yolks  of  twelve  eggs 
put  a  half-pound  of  butter  beat  to  a  cream,  half  a  pound, 
of  mfted  sugar,  the  fresh  grate  of  a  lemon,  and  twelve 
ounces  of  flour  dried.  Season  this  with  a  little  orange** 
flower-water,  or  a  few  pounded  almonds.  When  very 
well  mixed,  pour  the  cake  into  a  paper-mould.  Let  it  be 
scarcely  an  inch  thick  ;  bake  it,  and  when  cool  ice  it,  and 
cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife  and  ruler  into  squares,  lozenges, 
diamonds,  &c«  Moisten  the  edges  of  these  morsels  with 
sugar,  and  crisp  them  before  the  Are. 

1034.  Common  Buns» — Mix  two  pounds  of  flour  and  one 
of  beat  sugar.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour, 
and  put  in  a  glassful  of  thick  yeast,  and  half  a  pint  of 
warmed  milk.  Make  a  thin  batter  of  the  surrounding 
flour  and  the  milk,  and  set  the  dish  covered  before  the 
fire  till  the  leaven  begins  to  ferment.  Then  put  to  the 
mass  a  half-pound  of  melted  butter,  and  milk  enough  to 
make  a  soft  paste  of  all  the  flour.  Cover  this  with  a 
dust  of  flour,  and  let  it  once  more  rise  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  shape  the  dough  into  buns,  and  lay  them  apart  on 
buttered  tin  plates  in  rows  to  rise  for.  a  half-hour.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

1035.  Cross-Buns  are  made  of  the  same  sort  of  dough, 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  more  sugar,  and  a  seasoning 
of  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  mace.  They  must,  when 
moulded,  have  the  figure  of  the  Cross  impressed  on  them 
with  a  stamp.  Seedrbuns  are  also  made  as  above,  with 
the  addition  of  caraway  seeds.  They  may  be  baked  in 
pans,  and  glazed. 

1036.  Plum-hitns, — Mix  with  the  dough  of  common 
cross-buns^  currants,  strips  of  candied  orange-*pee],  blanched 


A  SCOTCH  CHRISTMAS  BUN.  543 

almonds  chopped,  and  a  seasoning  of  cinnamon  and  mace. 
Mark  them  round  the  edge  when  moulded,  and  bake  as 
common  buns. 

1037.  A  Scotch  Christnuu  Buriy  from  Mrs,  Fraaet^s 
Cookery, — Take  half  a  peck  of  flour,  keeping  out  a  little 
to  work  it  up  with ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  and  break  in  sixteen  ounces  of  butter  ;  pour  in  a 
mutchkin  (pint)  of  warm  water,  and  three  gills  of  yeast, 
and  work  it  up  into  a  smooth  dough.  If  it  is  not  wei 
enough,  put  in  a  little  more  warn  water :  then  cut  ofl^  one- 
third  of  the  dough,  and  lay  it  aside  for  the  cover.  Take 
three  povnds  of  stoned  raisins,  three  pounds  of  cleaned 
currants,  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  cut  longwise ; 
candied  orange  and  citron  peel  cut,  of  each  eight  ounces ; 
half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  two 
ounces  of  ginger,  all  beat  and  sifted.  Mix  the  spices  by 
themselves,  then  spread  out  the  dough ;  lay  the  fruit  upon 
it ;  strew  the  spices  over  the  fruit,  and  mix  all  together. 
When  it  is  well  kneaded,  roll  out  the  cover.  Cover  it 
neatly,  cut  it  round  the  sides,  prickle  it,  and  bind  it  with 
paper  to  keep  it  in  shape  ;  set  it  in  a  pretty  quick  oven,  and, 
just  before  you  take  it  out,  glaze  the  top  with  a  beat  ^^g,* 

1038.    WAFBRS. 

We  have  Wine^  Butter,  Cream,  Brandy,  Flemish, 
Spanish,  and  Almond  wafers.  The  French  have  these, 
and  many  more,  as  Pistachio  and  Vanilla  Gauffres,  all 
served  as  entr^ets.  Almond  is  the  sort  commonly  made. 
Mix  in  equal  quantities  dry  flour  and  sifted  sugar.  To 
every  six  spoonfuls  of  this  which  you  mean  to  use,  allow 
three  eggs,  and  four  ounces  of  chopped  almonds  or  pista- 

*  These  buns,  weighing  from  four  to  eight,  ten,  twelve,  and  sixteen,  or 
more  pounds,  are  still  sent  from  Edinburgh,  from  the  depots  of  Littlejohn 
•nd  Mackie,  to  ail  parts  of  the  three  kinffdoms.  Every  country  town,  rural 
village,  and  neighbourhood  in  England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland,  has  its 
favourite  holiday-cake,  or  currant-Toaf,  under  some  such  nsme  as  **  Lady 
BountifiiPs  loaf,'*  "  Mrs.  Notable's  cake,"  "  Miss  Thrifty'S  bun,"  &c. 
&c  We  do  not  pretend  to  give  receipts  for  all  these- — ^tfae  foi  mula  is 
endless — ^and  thev  are  all  food.^The  Irish  receipt  for  Brade  Breackd, 
paf  e  546,  is  nearly  the  substance  of  all  of  them.  That  they  be  well 
raised  and  well  fired  is  all  besides  that  is  of  any  importance.  They 
should  be  baked  in  a  dome-shaped  fluted  mould  or  Turk's  cap,  but  look 
still  more  imposing  at  holiday-times,  formed  like  laree,  respectuble^  old- 
fashioned  household  loaves.   Leavened  dough  should  be  bought  for  Uiem. 


544  CHAP.  T.— ORKAMSNTAL  DISRBS,  ScC, 

Chios.  Beat  the  mass.  Put  a  very  little  fresh  yeast  to 
it  if  you  have  it,  and  moisten  it  down  to  a  thickish 
hatter  with  good  cream.  Work  the  ingredients  well,  and 
let  the  whole  settle  a  while.  When  wanted,  rub  baking 
tins  with  fat  bacon,  or  fine  wax.  A  tea-spoonful  of  batter 
will  make  one  wafer.  Drop  and  let  it  spread.  Bake  care- 
fully in  a  rather  warm  oven.  Detach  the  wafers  one  by 
one  with  a  knife,  rolling  each  up,  while  still  soft,  round  a 
small  wooden  roller  or  pin.  They  should  be  like  gossamer. 
Other  kinds  are  made  as  above,  but  flavoured  with  v^niila, 
orange-flower-water,  mace,  cinnamon,  &c. ;  and  what  are 
called  Brancfy  scrolls^  with  ratafia,  and  the  spices  used  for 
gingerbread  nuts. — N.B.  Wafers  should  be  bought. 


Every  year  produces  something  new,  either  in  bakin^r 
or  in  combining  the  materials  of  which  bread  may  be 
made.  Like  novelties  in  other  things,  not  one  in  a  hun- 
dred succeeds,  and  from  the  time  of  Cobbett  we  have  little 
that  is  both  good  and  new  on  this  subject.  We  therefore 
adhere  to  our  old  and  tried  authority  for  household  baking. 

HOUSEHOLD  BREAD,  &C. 

1039.  Common  WhecUen  Bready  nearly  on  CMett'sPlan^^ 
— Put  a  bushel  of  flour  into  a  trough.  Make  a  deep  hole 
in  the  middle  of  the  heap,  and  take  for  a  bushel  of  flour 
a  pint  of  good  yeast,  and  stir  it  well  up  with  as  much 
milk-warm  water.  Pour  this  into  the  hole  made  in  the 
flour ;  then  take  a  spoon,  and  work  it  round  the  edges  of 
this  body  of  moisture,  so  as  to  bring  into  it,  by  degrees, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  which  must  be  well 
stirred  for  a  minute  or  two.  Throw  a  handful  of  flour  oyer 
the  surface  of  thb  batter,  and  cover  the  whole  with  the  folds 
of  a  cloth  to  keep  it  warm.  Set  it  by  the  fire,  regulating  the 
distance  by  the  state  of  the  weather  and  season  of  the 
year.  When  the  batter  has  risen  enough  to  make  cracks 
in  the  flour,  form  the  whole  mass  into  dough  thus:  — 
Begin  by  strewing  six  ounces  of  salt  over  the  heap  ;  and 
then  beginning  round  the  hole  containing  the  batter,  work 
the  flour  into  the  batter,  pouring  in  milk- warm  soft  water 
or  milk  as  it  is  wanted.  When  the  whole  mass  is  mois- 
tened, knead  it  well,  that  the  fermented  paste  may  be 


ROLU — MUFFIMS.  645 

duly  mixed  with  the  whole  mass.  Mould  the  loaves ;  let 
them  rise  for  twenty  minutes,  and  put  them  into  the  oven, 
which  should  be  previously  heated.  The  loaves  will 
require  a  length  of  time  to  fire  proportioned  to  their  size. 
—  N.  B.  To  boil  the  water  in  bran  is  a  saving  of  flour. 
Stale  bread  may  be  refreshed  by  placing  it  for  an  hour  in 
a  cool  oven.  Bread  may  be  raised  with  many  substitutes 
for  yeast.  The  carbonate  of  soda  is  now  extensively  used 
in  small  family  baking  for  flat  cakes,  or  what  in  Scotland  are 
called  scones.  The  only  art  is  to  apportion  the  alkali  and 
acid,  the  soda  and  the  buttermilk,  so  as  to  suit  the  degree 
of  acidity,  and  to  bake  before  the  effervescence  has  sub- 
sided, so  that  the  cakes  may  rise  lightly. 

1040.  To  bake  Breakfast  RoUs. — To  two  pounds  of  flour 
put  a  spoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter-pint  or  less  of  fresh  yeast, 
and  as  much  warmed  milk  and  water  as  will  make  a 
batter.  Stir  this  well  till  it  is  smooth,  and  let  it  stand 
covered  before  the  fire  to  rise  for  two  hours,  if  you  have 
time  to  wait  so  long.  Add  as  much  more  flour,  into  which 
you  should  have  rubbed  down  what  butter  you  mean  to 
put  to  the  rolls.  Work  the  dough  very  smooth,  divide 
it,  and  mould  it  into  rolls ;  fire  them  on  tins,  and  rasp, 
and  keep  them  covered. 

1041.  Mankeim  Bolls, — a  French  Beceipt,  —  Break  two 
raw  eggs  among  six  ounces  of  flour,  with  two  ounces  of 
iofted  sugar.  Mix  this  to  a  paste,  and  add  half  an  ounce 
of  anise-seeds  in  powder.  If  the  paste  be  too  wet,  put  in 
m<Hre  flour.  Make  this  kneaded  paste  level,  and  cut  it 
into  rolls  about  twelve  inches  long  and  two  broad.  Bake 
them  OB  a  buttered  tin,  and  glaze  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
Divide  them  when  done  into  very  small  cakes. 

1042.  Muffins, — A  pint  of  hot  milk,  a  quarter-pint,  or 
rather  less  of  fresh  yeast.  Stir  in  flour  to  make  this  a 
batter.  Let  it  repose,  covered  in  a  warm  place,  to  rise. 
Add  a  little  more  milk,  two  ounces  of  butter,  rubbed  iti 
flour  in  very  small  bits,  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  a 
dough.  Mix,  cover,  and  let  it  again  repose  a  half-hour  ; 
then  knead,  break,  and  mould  the  dough  into  muffinH. 
Let  them  repose  once  more  after  this  operation  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  bake  them. 

2  M 


546  CHAP.  V. — BBBAD  AHD  BISCUITS. 

N.B.  These  at  a  pinch  may  be  baked  on  the  Scotch 
girdUy  or  in  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan,  or  the  cottage 
oren-pot. 

1042.'  UnfermenUd  Bread,  —  Bread  which  Dr.  Pereira, 
one  of  the  latest  writers  upon  the  interminable  subject 
of  Dieiy  describes  as  '^  most  delicious,"  is  thus  prepared  : — 
Flour,  one  pound.  Sesquicarbonate  of  soda,  forty  grains ; 
cold  water,  half  a  pint,  or  as  much  as  may  be  required. 
Muriatic  acid  of  the  shops,  fifty  drops  ;  and  a  tea-i^onf  ul 
of  powdered  white  sugar.  Stir  the  supercarbonate  of  soda 
and  the  sugar  among  the  flour  in  a  basin  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Put  the  acid  to  the  water,  and  stir  the  whole 
brbkly  till  intimately  mixed.  Divide  the  dough  into  two 
loares  and  bake  immediately ;  the  sugar  may  be  omitted. 

1043.  Brown  Bread  is  made  as  1039,  with  coarser  flour, 
or  a  proportion  of  ehealings  or  rusks,  added  to  flour. 

1044.  French  Bread. — Many  sorts  of  fine  bread  baked 
vrith  milk,  eggs,  and  butter,  receive  this  name.  To  a 
half-peck  of  the  finest  flour  put  a  quart  of  lukewarm  milk, 
a  little  salt,  a  quarter-pound  of  melted  butter,  and  a  half- 
pint  of  sweet  yeast ;  whisk  the  fluids  together,  and  add 
two  or  three  beat  eggs ;  mix  the  flour  with  this,  handling 
it  as  little  as  possible  ;  let  the  dough  rise,  and  mould  the 
bread  into  rolls,  cakes,  &c.  Bake  on  tins  in  a  quick  oven, 
and  rasp  the  loaves. 

1045.  8al^f  Lunn  Caies. — Make  them  as  French  bread, 
but  dissolve  some  sugar  in  the  hot  milk.  Mould  into  the 
form  of  cakes.  A  blade  of  saffron  boiled  in  the  milk 
enriches  the  colour  of  these  or  any  other  cakes.**^ 

1046.  Yorkshire  Cixkes  are  made  as  above,  only  moulded 
smaller. 

1047*  Irish  Brads  Breackd.\  —  To  as  much  flour  as 

*  06f.  Our  admirable  master,  CarSmei  gives  an  account  of  these 
cakes,  under  the  designation  of  iSwt  Lemne.  French  ears  are  about  as 
well  attuned  to  English  sounds  as  are  those  of  the  New  Zealanders.  The 
Soli  Lemne  are  prepared  by  French  pastrj-cooks  under  the  name 
KoquM  au  Beurre ;  a  preparation  which  is  served  as  an  entremU.  It 
may,  however,  be  quite  possible  that  the  corruption  of  S(di  lemne  into 
Sai^  Lutm,  is  English;  though  the  French  Brii-poudin,  Plomb-cake, 
and  Btftik  de  mautonj  warrants  another  conclusion. 

t  Tliis  Irish  word  signifies  spotted  or  freckled.  This  mottled  loaf  is 
the  holiday-cake  of  Munster  and  Leinster. 


YEAST.  547 

\^11  make  two  qnariern^oaves  put  a  half-pound  of  melted 
batter.  Make  the  dough  with  fresh  yeast,  and  when  it 
has  risen,  mix  in  a  half-pound  of  beat  sugar,  a  half-pound 
of  currants,  picked,  cleaned,  and  dried ;  the  same  quan- 
tity of  stoned  raisins ;  a  few  sweet  almonds  blanched  and 
chopped,  and  some  candied  orange-peel  sliced.  Mould 
and  bake  the  loaves.     They  may  be  of  any  size. 

1048.  Yeiist, — There  are  many  ways  of  preparing  bread 
yeast,  but  no  yeast  is  to  be  compared  with  that  made  of  fresh 
worts — ^now  made  expressly  for  the  use  of  bakers  in  most 
towns.  Yeast  is,  however,  made  of  the  flour  of  peas, 
rye,  potatoes,  and  wheat,  mixed  with  sugar  and  water,  and 
afterwards  fermented  with  good  fresh  yeast.  Bad  yeast 
may  be  improved  by  mixing  in  it  flour  and  sugar,  with  a 
little  warm  water,  or  by  bleaching  it ;  that  is,  beating  up 
the  yeast  with  water  equal  in  quantity  to  itself,  and  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  each  quart  of  yeast.  In  twelve  hours 
pour  off  the  thin.  What  remains  will  be  an  improved 
yeast.  Strain  all  yeast  put  to  flour,  if  necessary.  If 
your  yeast  is  bitter  use  less  of  it^  but  allow  the  dough 
double  time  to  rise, 

1049.  Russian  Yeasty — the  best  Substitute  that  toe  know, — 
Make  a  thick  wort  of  ground  rye  or  malt,  and  for  a  gallon 
of  this  take  three  ounces  or  more  of  leaven,  and  dissolve 
it  in  a  little  of  the  wort.  Mix  the  whole,  and  add  a 
half-pound  of  ground  malt ;  shake  the  mixture  for  some 
time,  and  in  half  an  hour  add  two  large  spoonfuls  of  good 
yeast ;  cover  for  forty-eight  hours,  and  the  whole  will  be 
good  yeast. 

1050.  Another  Substitute, — To  a  pound  of  good  vmashed 
potatoes,  of  the  mealy  kind,  put  two  ounces  of  brown 
sugar.  Pulp  the  potatoes  through  a  colander,  and  mix 
them  with  hot  water ;  add  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  good 
yeast.  This  is  not  so  strong  as  beer-yeast,  but  it  does  for 
household-bread  by  using  more  of  it.  In  the  country, 
this  substitute,  as  it  is  easily  obtained,  will  be  found 
particularly  convenient. — Another,  Salt  and  stir  a  large 
spoonful  of  flour  with  a  pint  of  new  milk.  Set  it  by  the 
fire.     In  an  hour  it  will  be  fit  to  use  for  tea  or  breakfast 


$4B  CHAP.  T. — ^TEAST. 

btead ;  if  to  be  nnd  immediAtely  gire  double  qnjuitity  of 
the  yeaet. 

1061.  Camp  Yeast. — Muke  a  thin  gruel  of  a  gallon  of 
q»ring  water,  with  flour  of  rye,  wheat,  or  peas ;  boil  it, 
•tirring  it  well  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  to  this  a  half- 
pound  of  raw  Bugar,  and  when  as  cool  as  new  milk,  put 
a  quarter-pint  of  fresh  yeast  to  this,  and  let  it  ferment, 
covered  before  the  fire,  or  in  a  warm  place.  Pour  off 
the  thin  part.  Keep  a  few  spoonfuls  of  this  bottled  to 
lementthe  next  quantity  wanted*  A  quarter-pint  will 
do  lor  four  quartem-loayes. 


PART  FOURTH. 


CHAPTER  I. 

O,  Girzy !  Girzy !  when  thou  go'st  to  brew, 

Consider  well  what  you're  about  to  do ; 

Be  very  wise,  very  sedately  think 

That  what  you^  going  now  to  make  is  drink; 

Consider  who  must  drink  that  drink,  and  then 

What  His  to  have  the  praise  of  Honest  Men. 

LK^VEUBS,  CORmALS,  HOME-HADE  WINES,  BEESS,  AND  VLISCKI^ 
LANEOUS  RECEIPTS  FOR  BETERAGES. 

The  best  basis  of  all  liqueurs  is  pure  rectified  spirit ; 
uncoloured  proof  brandy  or  whisky, — provided  the  latter 
have  no  smoky  ox  peat- reek  flavour,  but  be  what  is  called 
Hlent  spirit.  Some  fine  liqueurs  require  to  be  distilled  ; 
but  as  this  is  a  troublesome  process,  they  are  generally 
made,  in  smstU  families,  by  infusion,  which  succeeds  very 
well.  The  s^rup  employed  mtist  he  clarified  as  for  preserves. 
Sometimes  capillaire-syrup  is  used  ;  but  this,  in  most 
cases,  is  an  unnecessary  expense. 


LIQUBURS^  CORDIALS^  &C.  549 

I052.  Cura^oa, — ^Infuse  three  drachms  of  oil  of  oraoge- 
peel  with  a  pint  of  rectified  spirits  and  a  pound  of  clari- 
fied syrup.  —  Another  way.  Macerate  five  ounces  of  the 
dry  peel  of  bitter  oranges  beaten  to  a  paste  with  a  little 
sugar,  in  a  quart  of  pure  spirit  and  a  pound  of  clari- 
fied sugar.  Let  the  mixture  stand  for  a  week  in  a  warm 
plaee^  and  strain  it  off,  first  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  tlien 
patiently  through  filtering-paper. 

N.B.  This  is  the  mode  of  clearing  all  liqueurs  and 
cordials,  when  mere  straining  is  not  sufficient  to  clear 
them.     Syrup  does  not  easily  filtrate. 

1063.  Noyau. — To  a  quart  of  pure  brandy,  or  aquaviis, 
put  six  ounces  of  claiified  syrup,  one  ounce  of  French 
prunes,  with  the  kernels  broken,  two  ounces  of  soun4 
peach,  nectarine,  or  what  is  better,  apricot  kernels  bruised ; 
a  few  grains  of  celery-seed,  and  %  flawmr  of  essence  of 
lemon  or  bitter  orange.  Infuse  for  ten  days  or  more,  and 
filter,  adding  a  half-pint  of  water. 

1054.  Scotch  Ncyau^  a  pleasani  Compound, — ^Two  quarts 
of  proof-spirit,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  syrup,  six  ounces  of  sweet  and  four  of  bitter 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped.  Infuse  for  a  fortmght^ 
shaking  the  compound  occa8i<»ially,  and  filter.  Lemon- 
juice  or  grate  may  be  added,  but  much  of  the  nut^  or 
almond  flavour  does  not  harmonise  well  with  acid  or 
citron  flavours. 

1055.  Strong  Cinnamon  CordiaiL — Pour  about  uxpencB 
worth  of  oil  of  cinnamon  on  a  few  knobs  of  sugar,  and 
rub  them  well  together.  Mix  this  with  two  quarts  of 
spirits  and  a  pound  of  hot  clarified  syrup.  Shake  well 
and.  let  this  infuse  for  a  few  days,  and  then  filter  it  for 
use.  Water  may  be  added  at  pleasure  to  reduce  the 
strength. — Oh»,  This  may  be  made  of  cinnamon  in  sub- 
stance. Cardamom  seeds  may  be  added.  This  and  other 
compounds  may  be  coloured  with  burnt  sugar ;  but  if 
well  strained  or  filtered,  they  look  better  nearly  colourw 
less  and  bright 

1056«  CUnm  CwdM^  a  bighr-flavoured  and  excellent  Com^ 
pound.  —  Take  rinds  of  citrons,  nx  ounces;  of  orange* 
peel^  four  ounces ;  a  nutmeg  bruised,  and  a  pint  and  a 


550  CHAP.  I. — ^U^UEUAS^  CORDIALBy  &C. 

half  of  clarified  syrup.  Mix  with  two  quarts  of  spirits 
for  ten  days,  keeping  the  vessel  in  a  warm  place.  Strain  as 
directed,  No.  1052. 

1057.  Clove  Condial. — Take  of  bruised  cloves  and  cassia- 
buds,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each,  and  a  dozen  Jamaica 
peppercorns.  Infuse  the  spices  in  hot  water,  and  keep  the 
bottle  by  the  iire,  close  stopped,  for  a  night  or  two.  Strain 
this  to  three  pints  of  proof-spirit,  and  add  syrup  to  taste. 
Filter,  and  colour  with  burnt  sugar,  or  a  bit  of  cochineal. 
Mace  or  nutmeg,  bruised,  may  be  added  to  Clove  Cordial. 
It  is  grateful  and  fancied  tonic. 

1058.  Barbadoes  Wttter. — To  two  quarts  of  proof -spirit 
add  syrup  to  taste,  two  ounces  of  fresh  orange-peel,  four 
of  lemon-peel,  and  a  few  bruised  cloves.  Infuse  for  ten 
days,  and  filter. 

1059.  Crimt  d^Orange^  a  delicious  Cordial,  —  Over  a 
dozen  oranges,  sliced,  pour  three  quarts  of  rectified  spirit, 
and  a  pint  of  orange-flower-water.  Close  the  vessel  care- 
fully ;  and  in  ten  days  add  five  pounds  of  clarified  syrup, 
a  quart  of  water,  and  a  half-ounce  of  tincture  of  safiron ;  close 
the  vessel  again,  and  in  a  fortnight  strain  ofi^  the  liquor 
through  a  jelly-bag ;  when  it  has  settled,  pour  it  from  the 
lees  and  bottle  it. — Ohs,  The  lees  of  liqueurs  make  an  ex- 
cellent addition  to  those  plain  puddings  and  cakes  for 
which  spirits  are  ordered. 

1060.  Crime  d*AMnthe,  by  3f.  Beauvillier^  Receipt.  — 
Take  in  the  proportions  of  twelve  pints  (old  measure)  of 
French  brandy  and  two  of  water;  a  small  handful  of 
fresh  wormwood,  or  a  large  half-ounce  of  the  dried  herb, 
a  quarter-ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  a  drachm  of  mace.  In- 
fuse for  some  days,  and,  if  convenient,  distil  the  compound. 
If  not,  infuse  in  a  warm  place  for  a  fortnight,  strain  the 
liquor,  and  add  a  pound  of  sugar  made  into  clear  syrup, 
with  five  pints  of  water. — Ohs,  This  liqueur,  or  a  glass  of 
Madeira  or  of  rum,  forms  the  coupe-de-milieu  at  a  knowing 
French  dinner ;  and,  by  its  stimulating  bitter,  enables  the 
gourmand  to  renew  the  flagging  contest.  Imitation  of  the 
Swiss  Kirschwasser.  —  Take  geans  and  cherries  —  morellos 
are  best.  Bruise  them  and  pound  the  kernels.  For  every 
twenty  pints  of  fruit  when  bruised  add  five  pints  of  water 


1 


LIQUEURS,  OOBDIALSy  &C.  551 

and  two  of  brandy  or  flavourless  whisky.  Ferment  for  a 
fortnight.  Strain  off  the  liquor  and  put  the  sediment  in 
a  press,  as  it  contains  much  of  the  strength  of  the  fruit 
and  kernels.  Pass  the  liquor  through  the  still  twice  or 
thrice  till  strong  enough. 

1061.  Common  RcOafia, — Take  an  ounce  of  bruised  nut- 
megs,  a  half-pound  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  chop- 
ped, and  a  grain  of  ambergris,  well  rubbed  with  sugar  in 
a  mortar ;  infuse  in  two  quarts  of  proof-spirit  for  two 
weeks,  and  filter. 

1062.  Red  Ratafia,  —  Six  pounds  of  the  black-heart 
cherry,  one  of  small  black  cherries  or  geans,  and  two  of 
raspberries  and  strawberries.  Bruise  the  fruit,  and  when 
it  has  stood  some  time,  drain  off  the  juice,  and  to  every 
pint  add  four  ounces  of  the  best  refined  sugar,  or  of  syrup, 
and  a  quart  of  the  best  brandy.  Strain  through  a  jelly- 
bag,  and  flavour  to  taste  with  a  half-ounce  of  cinnamon 
and  a  drachm  of  cloves,  bruised  and  infused  in  brandy  for 
a  fortnight  before,  or  with  cloves  alone,  which  is  more 
appropriate. 

1063.  Cherry  Brandy  or  TVkisfy,  —  IHck  morello,  or 
black  cherries,  from  the  stalks,  and  drop  them  into  bottles, 
till  the  bottles  are  three-quarters  full ;  fill  up  with  brandy 
or  whisky.  In  three  weeks  strain  off  the  spirits,  and  sea- 
son with  cinnamon  and  clove  mixture,  as  in  last  receipt, 
adding  syrup  to  taste.  Ratafia  should  not  be  sweet.  A 
second  weaker  decoction  may  be  obtained  by  pouring  paore 
spirits  on  the  fruit.  This  is  good  to  flavour  plum-pudding 
sauce. 

1063.*  Lemon-brancfy/or  sioeet  entremets, — Pour  over  the 
2est  of  a  dozen  lemons,  pared  as  for  punch,  and  put  in  a 
wide-necked  bottle  a  quart  of  brandy.  Cork  and  macerate 
for  a  month,  and  use  as  you  need  it. 

1063.'  Maraschino. — A  good  imitation  of  this  favourite 
liqueur  is  made  by  stoning  and  mashing  as  many  ripe 
morellos  as  will  measure  a  quart.  Have  the  same  measure 
of  the  small  black  cherry,  the  Scottish  ^rean,  and  mashed 
raspberries.  Pound  the  stones  of  half  the  morello  cherries 
and  of  half  the  geans,  with  two  ounces  of  peach  leaves,  and 
two  of  black  currant  leaves.     To  tlib  compound  mash 


662  CHAP.  I. — ^UQITSDBSy  OOBDfAU,  &C. 

add  two  qoftrts  of  rectified  q»irit^  or  of  genaine  bmndy, 
with  ft  drachm  of  catecfan  in  powder,  Infnse  for  a 
month,  and  then  distil,  by  a  slow  heat,  till  the  liqueur 
begins  to  look  thick.  Or  simple  fikratioB  will  do  witiioat 
distillation. 

1064.  Black-Cherry  Brandy.  —  Put  to  three  quarts  of 
brandy  four  pounds  of  stoned  black  cherries ;  —  braise  the 
stonesy  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Tnfuse  for  a  month; 
—  filter,  and  add  the  flavouring  ingredients  and  syrap,  as 
directed  above.  A  second  infusion  may  be  made,  which 
will  require  more  seasoning  than  that  first  drawn.  —  €%f. 
PerfumeSy  though  sometimes  used,  are  out  of  plaee  in  com- 
pounds of  this  kind.  The  blossoms  of  the  sloe,  infaaed  for 
six  weeks,  make  a  sort  of  Ratafia, 

1064.*  Ratafia  of  four  fruiti.  —  Have  equal  quantities 
of  the  juice  of  ripe  morellos,  raspberries,  strawberries,  and 
currants.  Strain  the  fruits  separately.  Put  their  strained 
juices  together.  Sweeten  to  taste  with  syrup.  Strain  again, 
and  to  every  pint  allow  a  quarter  pint  of  genuine  brandy; 
and  flavour  with  cherry  or  apricot  kernels,  and  mace^ 

1065.  Raspberry  Brandy  is  made  precisely  as  above, 
and,  if  strong  of  the  fruit,  is  best  without  any  other  fla- 
vouring ingredient,  but  may  have  syrup. 

1066."  Loudon* »  Admirable,  —  Skin  two  dozen  ri2>e 
peaches.  Quarter  them  and  take  out  the  stones.  Add  to  this 
the  pulp  of  two  dozen  ripe  greengages,  and  of  one  dozen  ripe 
magnums.  For  every  four  pounds  of  pulp  add  six  of  tmgat 
and  two  quarts  of  water.  Boil  slowly  for  a  half-hour  or 
more.  Skim,  strain,  and,  when  cool,  add  three  quarts  of 
brandy  or  flavourless  whisky. 

1066.  Ueqtiehaughy  the  Irish  CorcUaL-^To  two  quarts  of 
the  best  brandy,  or  whisky  without  a  smoky  or  any 
peculiar  taste,  put  a  pound  of  stoned  rasins,  a  half-ounce 
of  nutmegs,  a  quartei^ounce  of  cloves,  the  same  quantity 
of  cardamoms,  all  bruised  in  a  mortar ;  the  rind  of  a 
Seville  orange,  rubbed  ofl^  on  lumps  of  sugar,  a  little  tinc- 
ture of  safl^ron,  and  a  half-pound  of  brown  candy-sugar. 
Shake  the  infusion  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  and  filter  it 
for  use.  —  Ohs.  Not  a  drop  of  Water  mast  he  put  to  Irish 
Cordial     It  is  sometimes  tinged,  of  a  jmle  green  with  the 


I 


juice  of  spillage,  instead  of  the  safiron  tint,  from  which  it 
takes  the  name  (as  we  conjecture)  of  usque-beae,  mryeilam 


1067.  VEau  de  la  Vie.* — This  liqueur  is  exceeding 
pleasant^  and  in  quality  so  similar  to  verder  or  milk  punch, 
Norfolk  punchy  &c.y  that  it  is  almost  unnecessary  to  give 
any  other  receipt  for  these  compounds  than  the  rhyming 
one  subjoined. 

sugar  being  melted  with  a  little  cold  water,  the  artist 
squeezed  about  a  dozen  lemons  through  a  wooden  strainer, 
and  then  poured  in  water  enough  almost  to  fill  the  bowl. 
In  this  state  the  liquor  goes  by  the  name  of  sherbet,  and  a 
few  of  the  connoisseurs  in  his  immediate  neighbourhood 

*  UEau  de  la  Vie.—  The  followioff  rhyming  receipt  for  compound- 
ing this  seductive  liqueur  is  communicated  by  a  lady,  "who  has  contri- 
buted to  this  ^ume  many  useful  and  some  rare  rooeipta  :^— 

**  Grown  old  and  grown  stupid,  you  just  think  me  fit 

To  transcribe  for  my  grandmother^  book  a  receipt ; 

And  comfort  it  is  for  a  wight  in  distress 

To  be  still  of  some  use :  —  he  could  scarce  be  of  lest. 

Were  greater  his  talents,  fair  Ann  might  command 

His  hwd  —  if  more  worth  than  his  heart  or  his  band* 

Your  mandates  obeying,  he  sends  with  much  glee 

The  genuine  receipt  to  make  VEau  de  la  Vw :  — 

Take  seven  large  lemons,  and  pare  them  as  thin 

As  a  wafer,  or,  what  is  much  tninner,  your  skin : 

Six  ounces  of  sugar  next  take,  and  bear  mind. 

That  the  sugar  be  of  the  best  double-refined. 

Clear  the  sugar  in  near  half  a  pint  of  spring- water. 

In  the  neat  silver  saucepan  you  bought  for  your  daughter. 

Then  the  fourth  of  a  pint  you  must  iuUy  allow 

Of  new  milk,  made  as  warm  as  it  comes  from  the  cow. 

Put  the  rinds  of  the  lemons,  the  milk,  and  the  syrup, 

In  a  jar  with  the  rum,  and  give  them  a  stir  up — 

A  full  quart  of  old  rum,  (French  Imuidy  is  better, 

But  we  neV  in  receipts  should  stick  close  to  the  letter ;) 

And  then  to  your  taste,  you  may  add  some  perfume, 

Goa-stone,  or  whatever  you  like  in  its  room. 

Let  it  stand  thus  ten  days,  but  remember  to  shake  it 

And  the  closer  you  stop  it,  the  richer  you  make  it. 

Then  filter  through  paper,  *twill  sparkle  and  rise. 

Be  aa  soft  as  your  lips,  and  as  bright  as  your  eyes. 

Last,  bottle  it  up,  and,  believe  me,  the  Vicar 

Of  £ himself  never  drank  better  liquor. 

In  a  word,  it  excels,  by  a  million  of  odds, 
Tho  nectar  your  sister  presents  to  the  gods !  ** 


554  CHAP.  I. — UQCKUBfl^  OOBDIAU^  &C. 

were  requested  to  gire  their  opinion  of  it— for  in  the  niiac* 
ing  of  the  eherbet  liesy  according  to  the  Glasgow  creed,  at 
least  one -half  of  the  whole  battle.  This  heing  approved 
by  an  aodible  smack  from  the  lips  of  the  nmpires,  the 
rum  was  added  to  the  hoTerage,  I  soppose,  in  something 
about  the  proportion  from  one  to  seven.  Last  of  all,  the 
maker  cnt  a  few  limes,  and  running  each  section  rapidly 
round  the  rim  of  his  bowl,  squeezed  in  enough  of 
this  more  delicate  acid  to  flavour  the  whole  composition. 
In  this  consists  the  true  tour-de-nuUtre  oi  the  punch- 
maker."  Glasgow  Punch  should  be  made  of  the  coldest 
spring  water,  newly  taken  from  the  spring.  The  acid  ingre- 
dients abovementioned  will  suffice  for  a  very  large  bowL— 
See  Regenfa  Punchy  No.  1077.     Tea  Punchy  note  p.  358. 

1069.  Punch  d  la  Romaine, — Make  a  good  lemon  ice, 
(which  see,)  as  for  a  dessert,  or  take  any  left.  To  one 
quart  of  the  ice  put  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  add  rum  and  brandy  till  the  ice  liquefies.  The  propor- 
tions of  spirits  are  three  parts  rum  to  one  of  brandy ; 
water  to  taste.  To  this  put  a  cup  of  strong  green  tea^  and 
a  little  champagne. 

1069.'  Mint  Julep, — Put  a  few  leaflets  of  mint  into  one 
of  the  deep  tumblers  used  in  the  United  States  for  cardial 
dramSj  and  over  them  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  pour  what 
wine,  brandy,  or  rum  you  wish  :  Have  another  deep 
tumbler,  half-full  of  pounded  ioe;  pour  the  spirit  or 
wine  over  the  ice,  and  briskly  pour  the  whole  back- 
wards and  forwards  until  sufficiently  mixed :  next,  if 
in  very  hot  weather,  place  the  tumbler  in  a  larger 
glass  with  ice,  —  which  will  act  as  a  freezing  apparatus, 
—  and,  when  frost-work  spreads  over  the  glass,  drink. 
For  several  receipts  for  these  American  drinks,  which 
owe  half  their  value  to  the  heat  or  the  cold  of  the 
climate,  Britain  has  been  indebted  to  Captain  Marryat  and 
an  anonymous  writer  in  Taifs  Magazine,  The  principle 
is  the  same  in  the  composition  of  all  of  them,  whether 
Sherry  Cobblers^  Oin  SlingSy  or  by  whatever  name  fami- 
liar ;  so  we  shall  give  but  one  more  variety  from  TaU» 
**  By  my  halidom,"  says  the  Rambler  in  North  America, 
^  a  Sherry  Cobbler  is  a  nectar  fit  for  the  gods ;  and  the 


tlQUEUBSy  COBDIALS,  BEYERAOES,  &C.  d55 

most  eloquent  descriptions  will  prove  inadequate  to  convey 
a  just  idea  of  a  compound  so  truly  delicious.  Some 
pounded  sugar,  about  two  table-spoonfuls,  is  put  into  a 
large  tumbler,  a  liberal  supply  of  ice,  pure  as  crystal,  two 
wine-glasses  of  fine  sherry,  lemon-peel,  cut  very  thin,  a 
large  slice  of  pine-apple  at  the  top,  and  the  whole  violently 
shaken  up,  or  poured  several  times  from  one  tumbler  to 
another,  and  allowed  a  minute  or  so  to  clear :  a  long  reed 
is  then  stuck  in  the  glass,  and  so  you  imbibe  it  The 
charge  for  this  is  sixpence.'' 

1070.  Bishop,  Hot  or  Iced, — The  day  before  this  beverage 
is  wanted,  grill  on  a  wire^grill,  over  a  clear  slow  fire, 
three  smooth-skinned  large  bitter  oranges.  Grill  them  of 
a  pale  brown.  [They  may  also  be  done  in  an  oven,  or 
under  a  furnace.]  Place  them  in  a  small  punch-bowl 
that  will  about  hold  them,  and  pour  over  them  a  full 
half-pint  from  a  bottle  of  old  Bordeaux  wine,  in  which  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  loaf-sugar  is  dissolved.  Cover 
with  a  plate.  When  it  is  to  be  served  next  day,  (though 
it  may  lie  over  two  or  three  days,)  cut  and  squeeze  the 
oranges  into  a  small  sieve  placed  above  a  jug,  containing 
the  remainder  of  the  bottle  of  wine,  previously  made  very 
hot.  Add  more  syrup  if  it  is  wanted.  Serve  hot  in  large 
glasses ;  or  in  summer  it  may  be  iced*  Bishop  is  often 
made  of  Madeira  in  England,  and  is  perfumed  with  nut- 
megs, bruised  cloves,  and  mace.  It  ought,  however,  to  be 
made  of  old  generous  Bordeaux  wine,  or  it  fails  of  its 
purpose  as  a  tonic  liqueur.  It  is  reckoned  highly  stom- 
achic, and  is  served  at  French  dinners,  savans  et  recherch^9, 
either  as  the  coup-cFapres,  or  after  the  dessert. — See  Ab- 
iinthe,  Nos.  1060  and  1076. 

1071.  Norfolk  Punch, — Pare  thirty-two  Seville  oranges, 
and  the  same  number  of  lemons.  Infuse  the  peel  for  two 
days  in  a  large  bottle  or  jar,  with  a  gallon  of  brandy  (or 
flavourless  whisky)  a  little  reduced  in  strength.  Clarify 
in  a  gallon  of  water  four  pounds  of  sugar.  When  cold, 
strain  the  brandy  (which  will  now  be  a  tincture)  to  this. 
Add  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons  to  this,  previously 
strained  and  bottled,  when  the  peel  is  taken  ofi;  Cask 
the  liqueur,  or  put  it  in  a  jar.    Stop  it  well.    In  six  weeks 


656        CH1.P.  I. — ^U^UBUBa,  OORDIAUy  BSyBBAOEfly  &C. 

it  msy  be  gently  poured,  or  drawn  ofiP,  and  bottled.  A 
tincture  of  bruised  nutmegs  and  cloves  may  be  added  to 
this  compound. 

1072.  Milk  Punch, — Rub  off  on  lumps  of  sugar  the 
sest  of  a  dozen  lemons.  Pare  off  what  you  do  not  takeoff 
on  the  sugar,  but  take  none  of  the  white  stuff.  Infuse  in 
two  quarts  <^  brandy.  Strain  off  in  two  days,  and  add  of 
clarified  syrup  two  pounds,  and  of  water  two  quarts,  with 
a  half-pint  of  hot  new  milk.  Strain  through  a  jelly-bag, 
and  keep  in  a  close-stopped  jar,  or  small  cask,  till  it  fine, 
which  will  be  in  six  weeks  or  less. — Ob$,  This  cordial  is 
rather  getting  into  desuetude.  It  may  be  made  extempars 
by  adding  a  little  hot  milk  and  brandy  to  lemonade,  and 
•tnuning  through  a  jelly-bag. 

1073.  To  mull  Wine, — Boil  the  spicerieB  (cinnamon, 
nutmeg  grated,  cloves,  and  mace)  in  any  quantity  ap- 
proved, in  a  quarter-pint,  or  better,  of  water ;  put  to  this 
a  full  pint  of  port,  with  sugar  to  taste.  Mix  it  w<dl. 
Serve  hot  with  thin  slips  of  toast  or  rusks. — 06f.  The 
yolks  of  eggs  were  formerly  mixed  with  mulled  wine^  aa 
in  making  custard  or  egg-caudle,  and  many  flavouring 
ingrediento  were  employed  which  are   now  discarded.* 

*  Hot  Spicbd  Winbs. — A  varie^  of  these  delicions  potations  were 
in  use  nntil  abont  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenUi  CMiturj.  The  old 
metrical  romances  are  full  of  allusions  to  these  favourite  compeondi, 
and  particularly  to  the  hippoeraty  sack^  and  elarv.  The  first  of  these, 
which  took  its  name  from  the  bag  through  whicn  it  was  strained  beiin^ 
called  ^  Hippocrates*  sleeve/*  was  made  of  either  white  or  red  wne, 
with  aromatics,  such  as  ginger,  cinnamon,  and  aromatic  seedsi  and 
sugar.  Clary  was  made  from  claret,  with  honey  and  aromatics ;  and 
Back  from  the  wine  of  that  name.  This  medicated  vin  de  ooucher  was 
used  as  a  composing  draught,  or  **  niehteap,**  and  also  drunk  at  the 
conclusion  of  a  banquet.  **  Of  these  spiced  wines/*  says  Le  Qrande,  m 
his  Vie  Priv6e  de  FnuK^ois,  **  our  poets  of  the  thirteenth  century  never 
speak  without  rapture,  and  as  an  exquisite  luxury.  They  consider  it 
tne  masterpiece  of  art  to  combine  in  one  liquor  the  strength  and  iavowr 
«f  wine  with  the  sweetness  of  honey,  and  the  perfume  oi  the  most  eoetly 
aromatics.  A  banquet  at  which  no  yjiment  was  served,  would  have 
been  thought  wanting  in  the  most  essential  article.**  The  only  kind  of 
these  delicious  beverages  still  in  nee,  besides  our  common  mulled  wine, 
is  Bifbop,  that  bewitc£ing  mixture  made  of  claret  or  Buigundy,  omngim 
and  spices,  with  sugar.    See  receipt  Biskopy  No.  1070. 

When  this  compound  is  made  of  Bordeaux  wine,  it  is  simply  called 
Bishop;  but,  according  to  a  German  amateur,  it  receives  the  name  <rf 
Cardinal  when  old  Rhine  wine  is  used ;  and  even  rises  t«  the  dignity 
of  Pope  when  <*  imperial  Tokay**  is  employed. 


UQVaVBSy  CORDIALS,  BSYEBAOKS,  &C.  557 

tjemon  or  Seville  orange-juioe  may  be.  added,  and  the 
water  may  be  strained  off  from  the  spices.  Ale  or  porter 
may  be  mulled  as  above,  and  have  toasts  or  toasted 
biscuit  put  to  them. 

1074.  Wine  Whey, — Boil  in  a  saucepan  a  pint  of 
new  milk,  and  pour  into  it  three  glasses  of  sherry  or  raisin 
wine.  Bring  it  again  to  the  boiling  point ;  let  it  stand  a 
minute  till  the  curd  forms,  and  then  remove  the  curd,  and 
strain  and  sweeten  the  whey  to  taste  with  fine  sugar. 
The  whey  may  be  weakened  with  hot  water,  if  necessary, 
for  invalids,  and  it  may  be  boiled  for  five  minutes.  Vine- 
gar-vohey^  Cream  of  Tartar^  LemoUy  Mustard-teedj  and 
Alum-^wheyy  &c.,  may  all  be  made  as  above. 

1075.  Scotch  Hot  Ptnf.^'^Grate  a  nutmeg  into  two 
quarts  of  mild  ale,  and  bring  it  to  the  point  of  boiling. 
Mix  a  little  cold  ale  with  sugar  necessary  to  sweeten  this, 
and,  gradually,  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Gradually  mix 
the  hot  ale  with  the  eggs,  taking  care  that  they  do  not 
curdle.  Put  in  a  half^'pint  of  whisky  or  mm  and  bring  all 
once  more  nearly  to  boil,  and  then  briskly  pour  it  from 
one  vessel  into  another  till  it  becomes  smooth  and  bright.f 

1076.  The  German  Vermoutey  or  Wormtoood  Wine, — 
Infuse  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  the  extract  of  wormwood  in  a 
quart  of  St.  Geoige,  a  celebrated  Hungarian  wine.  Any 
rough  or  sub-acid  wine  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  — 
See  No.  1060. 

1077.  To  make  Saek-Poeset,  —  This  is  made  either  of 
good  cream  and  grated  sweet  biscuits,  or  of  beat  eggs  and 

*  Egg-pofltet,  <cg-flip,  &€.,  &c,  are  made  on  the  same  principle,  sub- 
stitnting  wine  forl^er,  and  using  a  seasoning  of  lemon-grate  rubbed  off 
on  knobis  of  sugar.  Beer-flip  is  exactly  the  Scotch  H^  jnnt.  It  is  in 
the  Universities — ^we  mean  tnose  of  Oxford  and  Cambrid«^e — that  this 
order  of  preparations  are  now  best  understood,  as  nrobablj  thej  were 
in  the  Monasteries  formerly.  **  Oxford  NigMcaps  "  is  the  name  of  a 
learned  work  lately  dedicated  to  those  of  Oxford  alone. 

f  This  beverage,  carried  about  in  a  bright  copper  kettle,  is,  or  wa», 
the  celebrated  new-year Vmoming  IletPtnt  of  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow. 
In  Honest,  frugal  Aberdeen,  half-boiled  sowens  is  used  on  the  same  festive 
occasion.  In  Edinburgh,  in  her  high  and  palmy  state, — her  days  of 
*'  spice  and  wine,**  while  she  had  yet  a  Court  and  a  Parliament,  while 
France  sent  her  wines,  and  Spain,  Italy,  and  Turkey,  fruits  and  spiees, 
— a  fiur  more  refined  composition  than  the  above  was  made  by  lubtti- 
tuting  light  white  wine  for  ale,  and  brandy  for  whiiky. — W.  W. 


&5S      CH1.P.  I. — UQUBVBSy  CORDlALSy  BBTE&A0E8,  &C. 

milk  instead  of  cream.  Boil  the  cream  or  milk,  sweeten 
it,  and  season  with  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg.  Warm 
the  wine  (Canary,  alias  sack)  in  a  separate  vessel,  and  stir 
it  gradually  into  the  milk  ;  then  pour  it  quickly  from  one 
vessel  into  another  till  perfectly  smooth :  this  is  especially 
requisite  if  made  with  eggs.  —  See  Wassail  Bowl. 

1078.  Ale- Posset,  —  Boil  a  pint  of  new  milk  with  a  slice 
of  toasted  hread,  sweeten  and  season  a  bottle  of  mild  ale  in 
a  china  basin  or  dish,  and  pour  the  boiling  milk  over  it. 
When  the  head  rises  serve  it. 

1079.  Rspenfs  or  George  the  Fourtk^s  Punch.  —  A  bottle 
of  champagne,  a  quarter-pint  of  brandy,  a  glassful  of  veri- 
table Martiniquey  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  Seville  orange : 
With  this  mix  a  pint  or  more  of  a  strong  infusion  of  the 
best  green  tea  strained,  and  capillaire  or  simple  syrup  to 
taste.  Calves'  feet  jelly  is  sometimes  mixed  with  this  com- 
position, and  it  may  be  iced,  and  should  be  strained. — Ohs, 
Other  liqueurs  may  be  used  with  this  compound,  and  also 
a  flavouring  of  aromatics  first  infused  and  strained.  —  See 
No.  1069.  * 

1080.  The  Pope^s  Posset,  —  Sweeten  and  heat  a  bottle  of 
white  wine.  Have  a  half-pound  of  sweet  almonds,  with  a 
few  bitter,  blanched,  pounded,  and  boiled  in  water,  and 
ready  strained.  Mix  the  boiling-hot  ingredients,  beat  them 
well  up  together. 

1081.  A  cool  Tankard.  —  Put  two  glasses  of  sherry  and 
one  of  brandy  into  a  jug  with  a  hot  toast  and  sugar.  Pour 
a  bottle  of  fine  ale  over  it ;  stir  with  a  sprig  of  balm,  and 
let  it  settle  for  a  half- hour. 

KUSi  y  Devonshire  cool  Tankard,  —  Sweeten  a  bottle 
of  cider  with  lumps  of  siyar  rubbed  on  the  rind  of  a  large 
lemon.  Add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  a  quarter  pint  of 
sherry,  and  the  grate  of  half  a  nutmeg.  like  all  summer 
beverages,  it  may  be  placed  in  ice ;  and  the  flavour  **  of 
our  ancestors"  may  be  given  with  thyme,  balm,  or  mint. 

*  The  following  receipt  for  making  tearpunch  is  taken  from  the 
Journal  des  Ck)nnais$atteei  UaueUea : — Hyron  tea,  8  oz. ;  black  tea,  4 
oz. ;  boiling  water,  3  gallons ;  susar,  16  lbs. ;  old  brandy  (Eau  de  VieJ^ 
two  and  a  half  gallons ;  mm,  half  a  gallon  ;  citric  acid,  and  spirit  of 
citron,  of  each  three  ounces.  The  tea  is  first  infused  in  the  water,  the 
citric  add  and  sugar  are  then  dissolved,  and  the  other  ingredients  added. 


LTQUEUBSy  CORDIALS,  BfiVSRAQES,  &C.  569 

1082.  AthoU  Brose.  -^  Mix  with  a  cupful  of  heaUiejv 
honey  two  cupfuls  of  whisky,  alitis  moantain-dew,  or  in 
this  proportion ;  hrandy  and  rum  are  also  used,  though  the  ^ 
combination  they  form  with  honey  cannot  be  called  AthoU 
Brose,  The  yolk  of  an  e%^  is  sometimes  beat  up  with  the 
brose. 

1083.  Auld  MafC%  Milk. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of 
six  eggs  separately.  Put  to  the  beat  yolks  sugar  and  a 
quart  of  new  milk,  or  thin  sweet  cream.  Add  to  this  rum, 
whisky,  or  brandy  to  taste,  (about  a  half-pint.)  Slip  in 
the  whipt  whites,  and  give  the  whole  a  gentle  stir  up  in 
the  china  punch-bowl,  in  which  it  should  be  mixed.  It 
may  be  flavoured  with  nutmeg  or  lemon-zest.  This 
morning  cup  is  nearly  the  egg-nogg  of  America. 

1084.  Lait  Sucre, — Boil  fine  sugar  in  milk,  and  flavour 
with  lemon.  This,  cold,  is  a  refreshment  fit  for  children's 
balls,  and  is  so  used  in  France. 

1085.  Eau  Sucre.^^Sugar  in  boiling  water.  This  is  a 
frugal  beverage  much  used  by  French  ladies,  and  considerod 
soporific. 

1086.  Bum  Shrub. — This  is  made  in  the  easy  way  by 
adding  the  juice  and  an  infusion  of  the  rind  of  Seville 
oranges  to  rum,  with  a  little  syrup  and  plain  water  or 
orange-flower-water.  Honey,  raisin-wine,  porter,  citric 
acid,  &c.,  are  all  employed  in  compound  shrubs. 

Brandy  Shrub  is  made  in  the  same  manner.  It  is  best 
to  buy  these  compound  liquors  rectified  and  distilled. 

1087.  Ctirrant  Shrub, —  White  or  Bed, — is  made  by 
putting  the  juice  of  the  fruit  to  rum  or  brandy,  in  the 
proportion  of  a  pint  of  juice,  or^ss,  to  a  quart  of  spirits, 
and  adding  syrup  to  taste.     It  iimst  then  be  strained. 

1088.  Widow  Bamaby*8  Brandy  Cherries. — Fill  large 
bottles  with  small  black  cherries  or  geans,  till  rather  more 
than  half  full.  Fill  up  with  brandy ;  cork  the  bottles. 
The  cherries  will  be  ready  in  a  month,  and  keep  for  a  year ; 
and  the  brandy  for  ever.  Where  spirits  are  ordered  for 
rich  pudding  sauces,  no  plain  spirit  is  equal  to  the  above 
infusion,  which  is  made  a  liqueur  by  adding  apricot 
kernels  bruised,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  bitter  orange-peel, 
as  in  Nos.  1053,  1054. 

1089.  Lemowide^  and  Milk  Lemonade. — This  agreeable 


500       OHAP.  I.—- >UQ0<iyB8,  OOU>IU«y  BBYKEAOBS,  &C. 

beFerage  used  formerly  to  be  fermented,-— now  the  process 
ie  more  simple.    Take  any  number  of  lemons,  suitable  to 
the  quantity  of  lemonade  wanted  ;  pare  them  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible ;  then  rub  the  surface  with  knobs  of  refined  sugar,  to 
extract  all  the  zest ;  put  the  saturated  sugar  and  half  the 
parings  into  a  basin,  and  squeeze  the  lemons  over  it.   Add 
the  best  refined  sugar  to  taste.     Hot  wat^r,  (.and  a  little 
boiling  milk,  if  approved,)  must  be  added,  in  the  propor- 
tions wished  for ;  three  quarts  to  two  dozen  lemons  is  a 
fair  quantity,  using  the  whole  juice,  but  only  half  the 
rinds.     Skim  the  liquor  when  well  mixed,  and    run  it 
through  a  jelly-bag.     Bottle  it.      For  MUi  Lemonade 
sweeten,  and  acidulate  to  your  taste   with  fresh   lemon 
juice  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  water ;  add  what  white 
wine  is  approved ;  mix,  and  strain  through  a  jelly-*bag.—^ 
Ohft,  Orangeade  is  made  as  above.— See  No.  1084. 

1090.  Pofiable  Lemonade^'^  useful  on  Vayages  or  in  tJke 
Country ^'^  Take  of  tartaric  acid  one  half-ounce,  refined 
sugar  three  ounces,  essence  of  lemon  half  a  dradim. 
Pound  the  tartaric  acid  and  sugar  very  well  in  a  marble 
mortar,  and  gradually  pour  the  essence  upon  the  mixture. 
Mix  the  whole  very  well,  and  paper  it  up  for  use  in  twelve 
separate  parcels  ;  each  of  which,  when  mixed  with  a 
tumbler  of  water,  will  make  a  very  pleasant  and  refresh- 
ing draught.  Lemonade  may  also  be  made  ^^etempore 
with  the  concrete  of  lemon-acid  and  syrup.  No  home- 
made Lemonades  can  compare  with  those  aerated  by 
the  chemists. 

1091.  CapiUaire,  —  Beat  up  six  eggs  and  their  shells 
with  sixteen  pounds  o^  loaf-sugar  ;  put  to  this  three 
quarts  of  water ;  beat  tin  whole  mass,  and  boil  it  twice, 
and  skim  it  well.  Perfume  with  orange-flower-water,  or 
Eau  de  milles  fleurs,  —  Obs.  This  syrup  answers  well  for 
sweetening  liqueurs,  or,  with  a  little  lemon-juice  and 
water,  makes  a  pleasant  summer-draught. 

1092.  Another  vxiy, — Infuse  what  ^quantity  of  American 
capillaire  is  wanted  in  boiling  water;  sweeten  with  clarified 
syrup ;  strain,  perfume  if  you  choose,  and  bottle. 

N.B.  Very  little  of  the  fern  of  which  the  capillaire  is 
made,  is  obtained  genuine. 
1003.  Bitters,  a  Tonic.  ^  Take  of  juniper-berries  two 


BRITISH  OR  HOME-MABB  WINES*  56i 

ounces,  of  gentian-root  one  ounce  and  a  half,  of  coriander- 
seeds  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  of  orange-peel  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce,  of  calamus-aromaticus  a  quarter  of  an  ounce, 
of  snake-root  a  drachm,  and  of  cardamom-seeds  a  half- 
drachm.  Cut  the  gentian-root  into  small  pieces,  pound 
the  other  ingredients  in  a  mortar,  and  put  the  whole  into 
a  large  hottle  or  jar,  with  five  hottles  of  the  best  malt- 
whisky  of  the  strength  of  glass-proof,  or  15  per  cent  below 
hydrometer-proof.  Shake  the  bottle  a  little  when  the 
ingredients  are  first  put  in,  but  not  afterwards.  Let  it 
macerate  for  twelve  days,  carefully  corked,  and  then  strain 
it  off,  and  bottle  it  for  use. — Obs,  Gin  or  brandy  may  be 
substituted  for  whisky :  whatever  spirit  is  used  must  be 
reduced  to  the  strength  of  glass-proof.  Sherry  wine  may 
be  substituted  for  spirits. — See  1076. 

1094.  AfmmUie  Tincture,  -—  Take  an  ounce  of  bruised 
cinnamon,  and  an  ounce  of  the  seeds  of  the  lesser  carda- 
mom ;  take  also  an  ounce  of  bruised  ginger,  two  drachms 
of  long  pepper,  and  a  quart  of  spirits.  Infuse  this  for  a 
fortnight  keeping  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  strain  for  use. 
Two  or  three  tea-spoonfuls  may  be  taken  in  a  little  capil- 
laire,  or  eau  guerey  or  in  wine  with  a  little  water  or  without. 
This  tincture  is  cordial ;  and,  in  cases  of  indigestion  and 
languor,  is  considered  restorative. 


BRITISH  OR  HOME-MADE  WINES. 

'*  Of  wine  may  be  verified  the  merry  induction,  that  good  wine  maketh 
good  blood,  good  blood  causeth  good  humours,  good  humours  cause 
good  thoughts,  good  thoughts. brin^^rth  good  works,  good  works 
carry  a  man  to  heaven;  ergOf  good  winpftrrieth  a  man  to  neaven.*^ — 
Howell. 

Those  families  who  make  wine  in  any  quantity  will 
find  it  useful  to  procure  a  treatise  on  this  branch  of  domestic 
economy  alone.  "We  shall,  however,  give  receipts  for 
makiikg  and  ordering  the  best  and  most  admired  sorts  of 
wines  in  sufficient  variety  to  suit  private  families. 
1095.  Ghneral  and  important  Observations, — ^The  fruit  ought 
to  be  gathered  before  it  is  dead  ripe,  and  in  dry  and  sunny 
weather,  which  will  greatly  improve  the  quality  and  flavour 

2n 


562  CHAP.  I. UQITSUBSy  COBDIALSy  &C 

of  the  wine.  All  fruit  that  is  unripe  or  spoiled  should  be 
picked  out  with  care,  as  one  ill-flaTOured  berry  will  taint 
the  juice  of  three  dozen  of  good  ones.  The  fruit  must  be 
carefully  bruised  and  put  into  a  vat  (or,  on  the  amall  scale, 
a  cask  with  the  end  out  of  it)  to  ferment  with  the  softest 
water  and  the  sugar.  The  more  carefully  the  husks  and 
seeds  are  excluded,  the  better  will  the  wine  be  in  flavour  and 
salutary  qualities.  The  less  water  that  is  used  the  richer 
will  be  the  wine ;  and  the  more  the  fruit- juice,  and  the  lees 
the  sugar  employed,  the  more  will  the  desired  vinous  taste 
and  flavour  predominate.  Two  or  three  days  are  generally 
enough  for  the  white  wines  to  ferment  in  the  vat.  Red  wines 
require  a  day  or  two  longer.  Fermentation  may  be  hastened 
by  agitating  the  liquid,  and  raising  the  temperature  of  the 
place  in  which  the  vat  is  placed.  When  the  wine  has 
undergone  fermentation,  it  must  be  cleared  by  being  put 
into  hair-bags,  and  strained  in  a  wine-press,  or  be  straiaed 
through  a  canvass  bag.  [Sieves  are  used  in  the  small 
scale  of  wine-making.]  The  casks  are  then  filled  till 
within  an  inch  of  the  bung-hole,  which  should  be  slightly 
covered  over.  The  casks  must  be  set  in  a  cool  place ; 
and  now  another  fermentation  comes  on,  called  the 
epifitausy  which  will  throw  off  the  feculence  that  remains 
in  the  mtut,  and  greatly  purify  the  wine.  When  this 
second  fermentation  has  abated,  the  spirits  ordered  for  the 
wine  should  be  added,  and  the  cask  filled  up  and  bunged. 
In  six  weeks  at  soonest,  the  cask  must  be  pegged^  to  see 
if  the  wine  is  bright,  and  if  so,  it  must  be  carefully  racked 
off  from  the  lees  into  another  cask.  The  best  method  is 
this  :  —  Bore  a  hole  ab<f|^  half-way  up  the  cask,  and  use 
a  small  quill  to  draw  off  the  purest  of  the  wine.  Now 
bore  a  hole  a  little  lower  down,  and  if  what  is  drawn  ofl^ 
be  not  so  bright  as  that  first  drawn  do  not  mix  them.  The 
lees  may  be  filtered. 

The  chief  qualities  of  home-made  wines  (for  they  never 
will  have  the  flavour  of  grape-wines)  consist,  after  all,  in 
colour  and  brightness ;  so  that  it  is  of  very  great  impor- 
tance to  have  tiiem  carefully  racked.  When  not  perfectly 
translucent  on  a  first  racking,  the  wine  must  be  racked  a 
second  and  even  a  third  time,  and  fined.    Wine  should. 


"1 


it  18  said,  be  bottled  in  deur  settled  weather.  The  bottles 
should  be  new,  or  at  least  perfectly  clean,  and  great  atten- 
tion must  be  paid  to  the  corking. 

A  variety  of  things  are  used  for  perfuming  wines ;  such 
as  sweet  herbs,  peach-leaves,  sweet  bay-leaves,  bruised 
almonds  or  kernels  of  fruit,  bergamot,  cloves,  ginger,  &c.  &c* 
Brandy  will  enrich  wines :  it  ought,  when  added,  to  be 
previously  mixed  with  syrup.  Flat  wines  may  be  enlivened 
by  adding  raisins  bruised,  mixing  first  a  very  little  spirits 
with  them.  The  addition  of  good  wine  wUl  better  answeT 
the  same  purpose.  Home-made  wine  is  apt  to  ferment 
over  much ;  this  may  be  checked  by  removing  the  wine  into  a 
cool  place,  putting  a  little  spirits  to  check  it,  and  making 
the  bung  fast,  so  as  to  exclude  air.  But  fermentation  is 
sometimes  too  slow,  and  by  experience  we  would  recom- 
mend, as  a  certain  means  of  making  the  fermentation  surei 
whether  of  wines  or  beers,  when  ydast  is  employed,  to  com- 
mence the  process  with  a  quart  of  the  cooled  liquor  in  a  small 
vessel.  This  may  be  gradually  increased  to  two  or  three 
quarts,  and  then  put  to  the  whole  contents  of  the  vat  which 
you  wish  to  ferment.  By  this  means  less  yeast  will  do,  and 
the  process  will  be  more  certain.  This  rule  is  applicable  to 
ginger-beer  and  to  every  sort  of  fermented  liquor.  After 
fermentation  is  over,  be  sure  the  cask  is  kept  quite  full  and 
close  bunged.  The  sooner  wine  is  bottled  after  it  is  fined 
the  more  it  will  sparkle ;  we  do  not  say  it  will  be  the 
better  wine.  A  good  judge  will  choose  a  creaming  rather 
than  an  effervescing  "or  sparkling  wine.— See  Brewing. 

1096.  Best  White  Ooaseberty  Champagne. — To  eveiy 
foui^  pints  of  ripe  white  goosebenies  mashed,  add  a  quart 
and  a  half  of  milk-warm  water  and  twelve  ounces  of 
good  loaf-sugar  bruised  and  dissolved.  Stir  the  whole 
well  in  the  tub  or  vat,  and  throw  a  blanket  over  the  ves- 
sel, which  is  proper  in  making  all  wines,  unless  you  wish 
to  slacken  the  process  of  fermentation.  Stir  the  ingre- 
dients occasionally,  and  in  three  days  strain  off  the  liquor 
into  a  cask.  Keep  the  cask  full,  and  when  the  spiritous 
fermentation  has  ceased,  add  for  every  gallon  of  wine,  a 
half-pint  of  brandy  or  good  whisky,  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  Sherry   or  Madeira.     Bung  up  the  cask  very 


6Qi  CHAP.  I. — UQU£UBSy  CORDIALS,  &C, 

closely,  oovering  the  bung  with  clay ;  when  it  clears,  rack 
it  carefully  off,  and  rack  it  again  if  not  quite  bright. 

N.B.  The  fruit  here  should  be  rather  under-ripe.  A 
very  excellent  white  currant-wine  may  be  made  by  this 
receipt,  or  a  wine  of  white  gooseberries  and  white  cur^ 
rants  mixed.    Fruit  wines  ferment  spontaneously. 

1097.  Red  Ghosd>erty  Wine, — Take  equal  measure  of 
water  and  bruised  fruit,  or  more  of  the  fruit  if  it  be  plen- 
tiful.   To  every  gallon  of  the  mixture  add  four  pounds  of 
loaf-sugar,  and  a  quarter-pound  of  sliced  beetroot.     When 
casked  and  fermented,  add  a  quart  or  more  of  brandy. 

lOdB.  British  Rhenish, — To  every  gallon  of  fresh  apple- 
juice,  add  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  and  skim  this 
till  quite  limpid.  Strain  it.  Ferment  it  as  other  wines ; 
and  when  the  head  flattens,  rack  it  off  clear,  and  tun  it. 
Next  season  rack  it  off  again ;  add  a  pint  of  brandy  to 
every  three  gallons. — Obs,  This  is  a  highly-reputed  wine, 
but  we  have  no  actual  experience  of  its  qualities. 

1099.  Red  Currant  Wine. — ^To  twenty  Scotch  pints  of 
water  put  thirty -six  Scotch  pints  or  more  of  red  currants, 
and  one  pint  of  raspberries.  When  these  have  fermented, 
add  twenty  pounds  of  good  sugar,  and,  after  the  wine  is 
casked,  two  pints  (if  you  choose)  of  brandy.  This  will 
make  eighteen  gallons  of  wine. 

N.B.  The  Scotch  pint  is  about  two  quarts.  Red  tartar 
in  fine  powder,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sliced  beetroot^ 
may  be  added  to  the  above  to  deepen  the  colour.  The 
skins  of  the  black  currant  boiled,  and  the  liquid  strained 
and  used  as  part  of  the  water,  we  have  found  to  answer 
better  than  beet  for  dee^pening  the  colour  of  the  dark-red 
home-made  wines. 

1100.  A  cheap  Wine  of  mixed  Fruit,  —  Take  equal 
measure  of  water  and  such  fruit  as  you  can  get ;  such  as 
raspberries,  cherries,  strawberries,  gooseberries,  and  cur- 
rants, either  black,  red,  or  white.  Strain  and  ferment, 
adding  fifteen  pounds  of  treacle  or  coarse  sugar  for  every 
twenty  gallons.  Perfume  with  a  quarter-pound  of  ginger^ 
and  a  handful  of  sweet  marjoram  and  lemon-thyme.  Add 
two  quarts  of  whisky. 

N.B.  A  more  delicate  compound  Wine  may  be  made  by 


MADE-WINES*  565 

using  loaf-sugar  and  brandy ;  the  colour  may  be  enriched 
by  red  tartar,  or,  better,  black  currant-skin  liquor. 

1101.  Elder-flower  Wine^  or  English  FrowUgniac, — 
Whisk  six  whites  of  eggs  in  six  gallons  of  water,  and  put 
to  this  sixteen  pounds  of  good  loaf-sugar.  Boil  and  skim 
it  well.  Put  to  the  boiling  liquid  eight  pounds  of  the 
best  raisins  chopped,  and  a  quarter-peck  of  elder-fiowers. 
Infase  these,  but  do  not  boil  them.  When  cool,  put  a 
quarter-pint  of  yeast  to  the  liquid,  stirring  it  well  up. 
Next  day  put  in  the  juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  thin 
rind.  Let  it  ferment  in  the  open  vessel  for  three  days, 
and  then  strain  and  cask  it. 

1102.  Elder-  Winey  made  of  the  elder-berries,  is  a  rich 
and  expensive  preparation.  It  is  made  in  the  proportions 
of  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  three  pints  of  elder-berry 
juice  to  the  gallon  of  water,  enriched  with  chopped  raisins, 
and  perfumed  and  flavoured  with  ginger,  nutmeg,  cloves, 
&c.  An  excellent  but  very  expensive  Elder-wine  is  made 
by  using  equal  weight  of  water  and  Malaga  raisins  and 
sugar,  and  an  eighth  part  elder-berries;  and  flavouring 
with  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace,  and  ginger.  Elder-berry 
wine  is,  or  tmM,  the  pride  of  many  English  housewives, 
and  no  expense  nor  pains  were  spared  in  its  preparation. 
Mulled,  or  as  negus,  it  forms  a  pleasant  beverage.  It 
may  stand  in  the  cask  till  February  to  fine  before  being 
bottled,  and  is  best  hot  and  spiced  as  No.  1073.  . 

1103.  Orange- Wine. — Dissolve  twelve  pounds  of  loaf* 
sugar  in  six  gallons  of  water,  in  which  the  whites  of  a 
dozen  eggs  have  been  whisked.  Whisk  the  whole,  and 
boil  and  skim  it.  When  nearly  cold,  put  into  it  six 
spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  the  juice  of  a  dozen  lemons. 
Next  morning  skim  off  the  top,  and  add  the  parings  of 
the  lemons,  and  the  juice  and  yellow  rind  of  four  dozen 
Seville  oranges.  Ferment' for  three  days,  and  cask  the 
wine. 

N.B.  This  wine  may  be  improved  to  some  tastes  by 
substituting  honey  for  one-third  of  the  sugar.  It  may  be 
enriched  by  the  addition  of  some  of  the  high-flavoured 
wines,  and  perfumed  with  ginger,  bitter  almonds,  berga- 
mot,  citron,  peach-leaves,  &c.  &c.     The  whole  of  the 


660  CHAP.  I. — ^UQUSVBSy  OORDIALS,  &C. 

orang«-Tind  is  by  some  thought  to  give  too  decided '  a 
flavour ;  less  may  be  used  at  pleasure,  and  the  rest  need  as 
eandied  chips. 

1104.  Orange  and  Lemon  Wine  of  Raisins. — Take  two 
pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  one  pound  of  Malaga  raidns,  and 
the  juice  and  peel  of  a  Seville  orange,  to  each  gallon  of 
water.  Add  the  orange-juice  when  the  wine  is  nearly 
done  fermenting.  Lem&n^Wine  is  made  in  the  same 
manner,  using  the  lemon  in  rather  greater  quantity  than 
the  orange.  ^ 

1106.  Parsnip-  Wine, — To  every  four  pounds  of  pars- 
nips, cleaned  and  quartered,  put  a  gallon  of  water.  Boil 
till  they  are  quite  soft,  and  strain  the  liquor  clear  off 
without  crushing  the  parsnips.  To  every  gallon  of  the 
liquor  put  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  and  a  half-ounee  of 
crude  tartar.  When  nearly  cold,  put  fresh  yeast  to  it.  Let 
it  stand  four  days  in  a  warm  room,  and  then  bung  it  up. 

N.B.  Parsnip-wine  is  said  to  surpass  the  other  home- 
made wines  as  much  as  East-India  Madeira  does  that  of 
the  Cape.  So  much  is  said  for  it,  and  on  good  authority, 
that  it  certainly  deserves  a  trial.  Horseradish  wine  is 
made  as  above,  and  is  recommended  for  gouty  habits.  In 
Ireland  a  pleasant  tdbU-heer  is  made  from  parsnipshreweA 
with  hops. 

1106.  Ginger- WinSy  a  liffht  Cordial  Wine. — To  ten  gal- 
lons of  water,  in  which  fifteen  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  liave 
been  dissolved,  put  the  beat  whites  of  six  eggs;  whisk 
this  well,  and  boil  and  skim  it ;  then  put  to  it  one  pound 
twelve  ounces  of  the  best  white  ginger  scraped  and  bruised. 
Boil  the  whole  in  a  covered  boiler,  to  extract  the  flavour. 
When  the  liquor  is  nearly  cold,  put  a  glassful  of  fresh 
yeast  into  the  tub.  Let  it  ferment  for  three  days  at 
least,  and  on  the  second  add  the  thin  parings  of  four 
Seville  oranges  and  six  lemons.  Cask  it,  and  bottle  off  in 
six  weeks,  or  when  bright.  This  wine  may  be  aromatized, 
as  it  is  called,  by  allspice,  a  few  cloves,  some  mace,  cinna- 
mon, and  nutmegs,  bruised  and  infused  in  brandy :  the 
strained  infusion  must  be  put  to  the  wine  just  before  it  is 
bottled. — Ohs.  Ginger-wine,  an  insipid  sort,  is  often  made 
without  being  fermented  ;  and  in  the  cheap  wholesale  way» 


BEBBS^  567- 

all^ice  and  cayenne  are  used  with  ginger  to  give 
flavour  and  poignancy. — See  No.  1109. 

Another  wayy  from  a  Carre^pondetU. — "  To  seven  gal- 
lons of  water,  take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  ginger ;  bruise 
and  boil  it  two  hours,  then  strain  and  cool  it ;  pour  it  over 
fourteen  pounds  of  raw  sugar.  Add  three  gallons  of 
strong  grain  whisky,  the  juice  and  rinds  of  two  dozen 
lemons,  one  dozen  bitter  oranges,  and  three  pounds  raisins 
stoned.  Barrel  it,  and  stir  it  well  every  day  for  three 
weeks,  then  add  .one  half-ounce  isinglass  dissolved  in  boil- 
ing water.  After  this  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place,  well 
corked,  in  cask  for  two  or  three  months,  then  bottle  it." 
So  far  our  correspondent ;  and  this  is  certainly  a  pleasant 
cordial  decoction, — a  Qinger  Oordialyhxii not. a  winej  which 
is  a  fermented  liquor. 

1107-  Birch-  Wine. — To  every  gallon  of  the  sap  of  the 
birch-tree>  boiled,  put  four  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  the 
thin  paring  of  a  lemon.  Boil  and  skim  this  well.  When 
cool,  put  fresh  yeast  to  it ;  let  it  ferment  for  four  or  five 
days,  then  close  it  up.  Keep  the  bung  very  close,  and  in 
four  months  rack  and  bottle  it. 

N.B.  The  pith  must  be  carefully  corked  up  when  it  is 
drawn  ofiP  from  the  trees,  till  it  is  to  be  used.  Less  sugar 
will  answer.  This  wine  is  sometimes  made  with  a  third 
part  raisins,  and  flavoured  with  almonds. 

It  ought  to  be  remembered,  that  in  currant  and  goose- 
berry wine  fermentation  is  spontaneous ;  no  yeast  is  em- 
ployed or  required.* 

The  best  sort  of  home-made  wines  are  manufactured 
from  foreign  fruits,  particularly  raisins  and  imported 
grapes.  The  reader  may  consult  Boherts*  Treatise  on 
British  Wines, 

BEEBS  AND  OTHER  HOUSEHOLD  BEVERAOES. 

1108.  White  Spruce-Beer, — To  five  gallons  of  water 
put  seven  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  and  three-fourths  of  a 

*  Noie  on  Made  Wines, — ^There  is  a  method  of  preparing  what  it 
ealled  home-made  brandy  for  giving  body  to  wines,  detailed  in  the 
Transactions  of  the  Horticultural  Society,  which  is  just  gooseberry-wine 
made  without  sugar,  with  the  addition  of  the  tenth  part  port- wine,  and 
distilled.  We  can  see  nothing  to  recommend  gooseberry  above  ftavour- 
les8  whisky  or  brandy. 


S6B  CHAP.  I. — ^LTQUBUBSy  COBDIALS,  &€• 

pound  of  the  essence  of  spmoe.  Boil  and  skiin  ibis.  Put 
it  into  a  vessel,  and,  when  nearly  cool,  add  fresh  yeast 
(abont  a  half-pint  or  less.)  When  the  beer  has  fer- 
mented for  three  days,  bung  the  cask,  and  in  a  week 
bottle  it  off. 

K.B.  For  Broftn  Sprues  use  treacle  or  coarse  brown 
sugar,  instead  of  loaf-sugar. 

Artifiddl  LemonrJuUe, — Dissolve  nine  drachms  and 
twelve  grains  of  crystallized  citric  acid  in  a  pint  of  water, 
and  flavour  it  with  a  drop  of  essence  of  lemon  dissolved  in 
a  tea-spoonfal  of  brandy. 

Lemon  and  Kali. — Two  parts  loaf-sugar,  one  part  dried 
and  powdered  citric  acid,  and  powdered  bicarbonate  of 
potash  one  part  and  a  fourth.    A  better  preparation  is,—- 

Efferveicing  Concrete  Acidulated  Alkali, — Mix  intimately 
one  part  powdered  tartaric  acid  ;  one  of  bicarbonate  ^ 
soda,  and  two  of  pounded  loaf-sugar.  Flavour  with 
essence  of  lemon,  sixty  drops  to  a  pound  of  the  mixture. 
A  tea-spoonful  in  a  half-pint  of  water,  or  less,  makes  the 
draught. 

Qinger-Beer  Patoders, — Thirty  grains  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda,  in  blue  paper ;  twenty-five  of  tartaric  acid  in  whit« 
paper,  to  which  add  five  grains  of  powdered  white  ginger, 
and  a  drachm  of  pounded  sugar. 

1109.  Qinger-Beer^  of  a  superior  kind,  for  keeping. — 
Take  four  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  four  ounces  or  more  of 
bruised  ginger,  and  four  gallons  of  water.    Boil  for  an 
hour,  and  skim  this.     Slice  two  lemons  or  more  into  a 
tub,  and  put  to  them  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar.    Pour 
the  hot  liquor  over  this,  and  when  milk- warm  add  a  half- 
pint,  or  rather  less,  of  fresh  beer-yeast.     Let  this  work  for 
three  or  four  days.     Strain  it  off  clear  from  the  lees  into 
a  cask,  and  add  to  it,  if  it  is  to  be  kept,  a  half-pint  of 
brandy.    Bottle  in  a  week  or  ten  days,  and  wire   the 
corks. — Ohs.  With  four  times  the  quantity  of  cream  of 
tartar  this  makes  aSrated  ginger-beer. — See  1106. 

1109.*  Superior  Ginger-Beer. — Dr.  Pereira's  receipt. 
—White  sugar,  twenty  pounds ;  lemon  or  lime-juice, 
eighteen  ounces ;  honey,  one  pound  ;  white  ginger  bruised, 
twenty- two  ounces;   water,  eighteen  gallons.     Boil   the 


ginger  [bruised]  in  three  gallons  of  water  for  half-an^ 
hour ;  then  add  the  sugar,  the  juice,  and  honey,  with  the 
fifteen  gallons  of  water  reserved.  Boil  and  strain.  When 
cold,  add  the  white  of  an  egg  and  half  an  ounce  of  essence 
of  lemons.  In  four  days,  bottle  it ;  and  it  will  keep  for 
months.     Dr.  Pereira  seems  to  forget  fermentation. 

1110.  Common  Ginger-Beer, — Make  as  above,  but 
take  a  third  less  sugar,  (brown  sugar  will  do,)  and  no 
lemons  nor  brandy.  Ferment  for  two  days,  and  bottle  for 
use.  A  little  cayenne  or  allspice  is  a  cheap  substitute  for 
part  of  the  ginger.  The  above  compositions  are  sometimes 
called  Imperial^  Ginger-pop^  S^c. 

1111.  Treacle-Beery  a  Table-Beer. — Boil,  for  twenty 
minutes,  four  pounds  of  molasses,  in  from  five  to  six 
gallons  of  soft  water,  with  a  handful  of  hops  tied  in  a 
muslin  rag,  or  a  little  extract  of  gentian.  When  cooled 
in  the  tub,  add  a  pint  of  good  beer-yeast,  or  from  four  to 
six  quarts  of  fresh  worts  from  the  brewer's  vat.  Cover 
the  beer  (and  all  fermenting  liquids)  with  blankets  or 
coarse  cloths.  Pour  it  from  the  lees  and  bottle  it.  You 
may  use  sugar  for  molasses,  which  is  lighter. 

N.  B.  This  is  a  cheap  and  very  wholesome  beverage. 
A  little  ginger  may  be  added  to  the  boiling  liquid,  if  the 
flavour  is  liked,  instead  of  hops. 

ON  BOTTLING  LIQUOBS,  AND  ON  CORKS,  BOTTLE-WAX,  &C.  &C. 

"  The  penny- wise  and  pound-foolish "  principle  is  not 
shown  in  any  department  of  domestic  management  more 
decidedly  than  in  the  purchase  of  corks.  These  should 
always  be  of  the  best  cork-wood,  whether  for  pickles,  cat- 
sups, made- wines,  or  even  the  cheapest  commodities.  Bot- 
tles are  best  when  new ;  but,  if  well  kept  and  thoroughly 
cleaned,  they  will  continue  to  answer  quite  well.  They 
should  always'  be  washed  when  set  away,  and  kept  with 
the  head  downmost.  Bottles  that  have  contracted  a  bad 
smell  may  be  fumigated  by  a  lighted  match  after  they  are 
well  brushed  and  washed.  Wash  and  drain  them  again  ; 
but  better,  if  for  good^liquor,  break  them.  The  lead  shot 
used  for  cleaning  bottles  should  be  carefully  removed  be« 


570  TTMB  WaVOlBMO  FOR  BOIIiUfO. 

fore  they  are  filled.     BotUe-wax  is  sold  ready  Tpn^pared,  or 

18  easily  made  thus  :  — 

1112.  Battle-  Wax,  —  A  pound  of  rosin,  a  pound  of  bees- 
wax, and  a  half-pound  of  tallow.  Mix  with  this  red  or 
yellow  ochre,  soot,  or  Spanish  whiting,  whichever  colour 
you  want.  Melt  it  carefully,  stirring  all  the  while.  If 
likely  to  hoil  over,  stir  with  a  candle-end,  which  will  allay 
the  ebullition. 

1113.  To  prevent  Liquors  firem  having  aCorked  Teute, — 
Dip  the  corks  in  a  varnish  made  of  equal  quantities  of 
purified  wax  and  suet  melted  together,  and  repeat  the  dip- 
ping till  the  cork  is  covered  with  the  mixture. 

N.  B.  We  are  not  sure  of  this  prescription.  It  will  pre- 
vent a  corked  taste ;  but,  by  contracting  the  fibres  of  the 
cork,  will  it  as  efiPectually  exclude  the  external  air  % 


TABLB  OF  THB  AVBBAQB  TIME  BEQUIBED  FOR  BOILING, 
ROASTING,  AND  FRYING  DIFFEBBNT  <iUANTITIES  OF  MEAT, 
FISH,  AND  VBGBTABLES. 

BOILING,  MEAN  TIME.* 

A  Salted  Round,  of  twenty  to  twenty-fiye  pounds,  four  to  five 

hours. 
Edge-bone,  of  ten  to  fourteen  pounds,  three  hours. 
Brisket,  of  ten  pounds,  three  hours. 

Ham,  of  twelve  to  sixteen  pounds,  simmer  four  hours,  or  boil  two. 
Tongues,  two  hours  if  fresh;  if  salt  and  dry,  from  three  to  four 

hours. 
Leg  of  Mutton,  of  nine  pounds,  simmer  for  three  hours. 
Neck  of  Mutton,  from  five  to  seven  pounds,  two  and  a  half  hours. 
Shoulder,  of  seven  pounds,  two  and  a  half  hours,  simmering. 
Leg  of  Lamb,  five  pounds,  simmer  one  hour  and  twenty-five 

minutes. 
Neck  of  Lamb,  three  pounds  and  a  half,  one  hour  and  quarter. 

*  By  Boiling,  we  mean  simmerinff  slowly  ;  keeping  the  meat  at  the 
boiling-point,  without  ebullition.  Potatoes,  artiohokes,  carrots,  and 
other  thinn,  must  be  probed  to  try  if  they  be  done. 

N.  B.— olie  time  specified  with  butcher'^s  meat  is  rather  under  than 
over,  which  is  the  safest  side  to  err  on  ;  for  fish  rather  over,  which  is  the 
safe  side  too. 


TIM£  RSQ17UIBD  FOR  BOIl^Iira  AND  BOASTING.  571 

Leg  of  Pork,  of  six  to  eight  ponads,  two  aad  a  half  hoars. 

Hand  or  Spring  of  Pork,  five  to  six  pounds,  two  hours. 

Piece  of  Bacon,,  from  three  to  four  pounds,  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Neck  of  Veal,  five  pounds,  two  hours. 

Breast  of  Veal,  seven  pounds,  simmer  two  hours  and  half. 

Knuckle,  from  five  to  seven  pounds,  two  hours  and  half. 

Cairs  Head,  unskinned,  simmer  three  hours. 

Pig's  Cheek,  two  hours,  or  more. 

Pig's  Feet,  three  hours. 

Tripe,  to  simmer  from  six  to  eight  hours,  or  more. 

Small  Hen  Turkey,  from  one  hour  to  one  and  a  half. 

Fowls,  if  large,  from  one  hour  to  one  and  a  half. 

Rabbits,  from  one  hour  to  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes. 

Small  Chickens,  from  twenty  minutes  to  a  half  hour. — Partridges, 
a  half  hour. — Pigeons,  twenty  minutes. — Pheasants  from  an 
hour  to  an  hour  and  quarter,  according  to  the  size  and  age. 

Greens  and  Cabbage,  quick  boiling,  twenty-five  minutes. 

Artichokes,  thirty-five  minutes,  when  probe. 

Green  Peas,  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Turnips  and  Carrots,  from  fifteen  to  fifty  or  more  minutes,  accor- 
ding to  age  and  size,  when  probe, 

French  Beans,  thirty  minutes. 

Brocoli  and  Cauliflower,  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Asparagus,  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

Beetroots,  two  hours  and  a  half,  or  more. 

Parsnips,  thirty -five  minutes,  when  probe, 

Spinage,  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  peeled,  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

A  Turbot,  of  ten  to  fourteen  pounds,  a  half  hour's  simmering, 
after  it  fairly  boils. 

Cod's  head  and  shoulders,  if  large,  an  hour  from  the  time  it  is 
put  on  a  good  fire,  with  cold  water  and  salt. 

A  Salmon,  or  large  Jole,  an  hour  from  the  time  it  is  put  on  with 
cold  water  and  salt. 

Slices  of  Salmon,  or  Cod,  crimped,  put  in  boiling  water,  from 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. — Eels  and  small  Flat  Fish  are  soon 
boiled. — Haddocks,  Whitings,  Soles,  &o.  according  to  their 
size.  Soles,  middle  size,  put  on  with  boiling  water,  from  six  to 
ten  minutes;  their  texture  does  not  require  long  cooking. 

Herrings  and  Mackerel,  from  seven  to  ten  minutes. 

Lobsters  and  Crabs,  about  twenty  minutes,  if  of  average  size. 

Skate,  from  twelve  to  twenty  minutes'  simmering. 

ROASTING,  M&AN  TIMB. 

A  Sirloin,  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  pounds,  four  hours. 
Ribs,  same  weight,  four  hours. 
Collared  Ribs,  about  three  and  a  half  hours. 
Haunch  of  Venison,  from  three  to  four  hours. 
Haunch,  if  in  paper  and  paste,  from  four  to  five  hours. 


^72         nxB  RBQUnUBO  vob  roastino  akd  frtino. 

Leg  of  Mntton,  of  eight  to  ten  pounds,  two  honn  and  half. 

Shoulder,  of  eight  pounds,  two  hours. 

FiUet  of  Veal,  of  ten  pounds,  stuffed,  three  hours. 

Brisket  of  Veal,  of  eight  pounds,  two  hours. 

Loin,  of  eight  to  nine  pounds,  two  hours. 

Leg  of  Xiamb,  of  six  pounds,  one  and  a  half  hour. 

Loin,  of  three  to  four  pounds,  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Leg  of  Pork,  of  eight  pounds,  two  hours  and  three  quarters. 

Loin  of  Pork,  of  six  pounds,  two  hours. 

Goose,  if  large,  from  one  hour  to  one  and  a  half. 

Green  Goose,  fifty  minutes  to  an  hour. 

Ducks,  if  large,  fifty  minutes. 

Hare,  an  hour  and  quarter  to  an  hour  and  half. 

Turkey,  from  two  and  a  half  to  three  and  a  half  hours,  aceording 

to  siie. 
Leveret,  fifty  minutes. 
Rabbits,  large,  ene  hour. 
Wild  Duck,  tiiirty-five  minutes. 
Partridges,  large,  thirty-five  minutes. 
Pigeons,  fh>m  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 
Chickens,  from  twenty  to  fifty  minutes,  according  to  the  size. 
Black  Cock,  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  quarter. 
Pig,  from  an  hour  and  quarter  to  two  hours,  according  to  the 

size. 
Large  Fowl,  sixty-five  minutes. 
Ox-heart,  stuffed,  if  large,  two  hours  and  a  hilf. 
Calf's  heart,  one  hour. 
Grouse  thirty-five  minutes. 

N.B.  —  In  frosty  weather,  a  few  minutes  more  is  to  be 
allowed,  and  much  will  always  depend  on  the  size  of  the  fire, 
and  the  way  in  which  it  is  kept  up;  and  we  reckon  upon 
every  thing  being  held  back  from  the  scorching  heat  of  the  fire 
when  first  put  down.  It  must  also  be  kept  in  mind  that  we 
refer  to  ordinary  kitchen-fires,  not  to  the  raging  furnaces  of 
the  kitchens  of  club-houses  and  large  hotels,  where  the  pro- 
cesses are  considerably  shorter. 

FRYING. 

Soles,  from  seven  to  ten  minutes,  according  to  size. 

Slices  of  Cod,  or  Salmon,  or  Turbot,  or  any  large  thick  fish, 

twelve  minutes. 
Fillets,  rolled  up  circularly,  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 
Herrings,  Whitings,  and  small  Haddocks,  from  eight  to  twelve 

minutes. 
Whitings  and  Flounders,  six  to  eight  minutes. 
Skate,  in  slices,  ten  minutes.    Eels,  twelve  minutes. 
Tripe,  in  batter,  four  minutes«, 


FROTisioNs  IK  sbason;  573 

Perch  and  Smelts,  if  small,  fkre  minates. 

Oysters,  for  garnishing,  three  minates. 

Pancakes,  firom  one  to  three  minutes. 

Fritters,  in  batter,  the  fmit  previously  stewed  or  roasted,  four 

or  fiye  minutes. 
Fritters  of  fresh-sliced  apples,  in  batter,  eight  minutes. 
Rissoles  and  Croquets,  of  mincemeat,  fiye  minutes. 
Potatoes,  in  slices,  three  minutes. 
£|ggs,  three  minutes. 

N.  B.  The  above  time  is  rather  in  excess,  as  the  safe  side. 


NOTICES  OF  THE  PBINCIPAL  MEATS,  FISH,  AND  VEGETABLES,  IN 
SEASON  IN  THE  DIFFERENT  MONTHS  OF  THE  TEAR. 

JANUARY. 

Beef  and  mutton,  which  are  to  be  had  good  all  the  year  round, 
are  both  prime  in  this  month,  though  they  begin  to  get  dearer 
than  in  the  fall  of  the  year;  veal  to  be  had  good,  but  dear  at  this 
season;  house-lamb  and^  pork  generally  both  dear.  Poultry — 
Turiceys,  geese,  ducks,  fowls,  pullets,  tame  pigeons,  wild  ducks, 
hares  and  rabbits,  plentiful;  the  latter  cheap;  partridges,  phea- 
sants, and  a  great  variety  of  wild  fowl.  FUh — Turbot,  halibut, 
skate,  cod,  haddocks,  soles,  plaice,  flounders,  oysters — prime 
turbot  is  now  scarce;  lobsters  and  crabs  hardly  to  be  got  at  this 
time;  prawns  plentiful.  Vegetables — The  same  sorts  of  vegetables 
are  in  season,  with  little  variation,  from  the  beginning  of  Novem- 
ber till  the  end  of  February :  they  are  Savoys,  cabbage,  and  greens 
of  all  the  sorts,  Brussels  sprouts,  brocoli  sulphur-coloured  and 
purple;  spinage,  leeks,  onions,  beetroot,  parsnips,  turnips,  celery, 
carrots,  potatoes,  cresses,  parsley,  endive,  and  forced  asparagus, 
and  mudirooms.  Fruiti — ^A  variety  of  apples,  pears,  and  filberts, 
walnuts,  oranges,  foreign  grapes,  and  all  the  dried  fhuts,  now 
plentiful  and  excellent. 

FEBRUARY. 

Meat  the  same  as  in  January,  but  veal  and  house-lamb  gene 
rally  rather  cheaper.  FUh  the  same,  but  cod  and  haddocks 
fallen  off;  lobsters  and  herrings  more  plentiful ;  barbel  and  dace 
.got.  FowU  and  game  the  same,  save  partridges  and  phea- 
sants, with  spring  chickens  and  ducklings  in  addition,  but  at  this 
season  enormously  dear.  Pea  and  Guinea  fowl  now  come  in  and 
continue  till  July.  Vegetables  the  same,  and,  in  addition,  forced 
kidney-beans  and  salad  herbs. 

MARCH. 

Meat  as  in  January,  and  grass-lamb;  house-lamb  now  cheaper; 
and  mountain-mutton,  which  begins  to  fall  off  about  mid-winter, 
now  not  so  good,  particularly  in  severe  seasons;  veal  gets  cheaper. 
Poultry  the  same  as  last  months ;  no  hares  from  middle  of  the 


574  pmovtnoin  nf  skamut. 

month;  eloM  tine  till  September;  green  geeee,  diwUii^gSy  tame 
pigecMW,  (ebeftper;)  wild  pigeons;  moor-gnme  eloee.  F%ak  — 
Salmon  is  now  got,  but  deer,  —  indeed  it  is  to  be  hnd  in  I<oiidm 
Umoet  the  whole  year  round.  Fish,  in  an  open  spring,  are  pioi- 
tifnl  about  this  time, bat  still  more  so  in  April;  nuM^rel,  shrimps, 
and  prawns,  are  now  seen.  Torbot  are  now  in  high  request.  The 
John  Vorj  makes  its  appearance  in  the  London  market.  Veffe- 
iMe$ — Foroed  oncumbers  and  rhubarb;  young  tnmipe,  and  inmip 
topSy  Bpinage,  broooli,  radishes,  and  forced  salad  herbs. 

APRIL. 

Meal  ofcM  h%nd$» — ^Veal  and  lamb  get  cheaper.  Ponltrj  same 
as  last  three  months.  I^eTorets  to  be  got  towards  the  end  of  the 
month;  young  fowb,  with  eggs,  and  turkey-poults,  but  in  general 
extravagantly  dear.  VegetaMe$  same  as  the  last  months,  with 
chenril  and  lettuce:  vegetables  now  begin  to  get  <^eap.  Cresses 
from  the  end  of  this  month  till  NovemW.  Fnctft-^^shreen  goose- 
bcffries  and  rhubarb  for  tarts.  Smelts  and  whitings  plentUhl, 
maokerel  is  got  and  mullet. 

MAY. 

The  same  in  meat  as  the  preceding  months,  and  about  Whitsun- 
tide buck- venison  comes  in  season.  Fish — Turbot,  lobster,  trout, 
salmon,  eels,  and  plenty  of  the  smaller  white  fish  in  favourable 
weather;  oysters  go  out  of  season  till  August,  and  cod  is  not 
liked  from  about  £idy-day  till  MidAimmer,  or  later.  VegetaUeM 
of  all  kinds  as  before,  with  forced  peas  and  early  potatoes; 
sea-kale,  asparagus,  saladings,  and  carrots,  are  now  obtained  of 
natural  growth. 

JUNE. 

Meat  of  all  kindt,  and  it  generally  begins  to  get  cheaper* 
Pish — Salmon,  turbot,  skate,  halibut,  crabs,  prawns,  lobsters, 
soles,  eels,  all  in  high  season,  and  getting  cheaper.  VegetabUt 
in  great  plenty  and  variety,  and  cheaper;  early  cauliflower  got, 
asparagus  plentiful,  and  about  the  cheapest  towards  the  end  of 
the  month.  FruUs  in  fine  seasons  are  strawberries,  early  cherries, 
melons,  and  forced  peaches  and  apricots ;  also  apples  for  tarta 
About  the  beginning  of  the  month  the  West  India  fleets  used  te 
arrive  with  turtle.    Now  it  comes  frequently. 

JULY. 

Meat  of  aU  Hnde, — Lamb  and  veal  cheap.  Poultry  of  all  kindii 
as  before,  and  also  plovers  and  wheat-ears.  Leverets,  turkey- 
poults,  and  ducklings,  are  now  worth  eating,  and  cheaper.  Wild 
ducks  are  often  got  about  this  time.  Fish  is  now  good  of  aH 
kinds,  save  oysters;  and  the  rarer  sorts,  as  turbot  and  salmon, 
are  about  the  cheapest,  therefore  eod  is  not  sought  after,  thoo|^ 


I 


PSOVISIORS  IN  8SA60N.  575 

.  tbis  18  the  high  Beason  of  the  cod  and  also  of  the  herring  fishery 

]  on  our  coasts.     Veg€ta\Ae%  of  all  kinds  good  and  plentiful,  as 

I  canliflowers,  peas,  and  French  and  Windsor  beans.    Fru\U — All 

I  the  small  flruits  at  their  best,  also  early  plums,  apricots,  melons, . 

u  cherries,  and  pine^apples* 

I  AUGUST  AND  SEPTEMBER. 

I  MmX  of  cUl  kindtf  and  cheap, — Mountain-mutton  now  excel- 

'  lent.  Grass-lamb  growing  coarse.  Veal  getting  scarcer.  Poultry 
as  before;  with  moor-game  of  all  kinds  after  the  12th  of  August, 
and  partridges  and  hares  from  the  beginning  of  September. 
Geeee  and  ducks  now  full  grown.  i^wA  —  Cod  is  good,  —  tnr- 
bot  goes  rather  out,  as  does  salmmi.  Fresh-water  fish  now 
plentiftil,  as  pike,  carp,  perch,  and  trout.  Herrings,  which  are 
in  season  from  July  till  March,  are  now  excellent.  Fruits  of  all 
kinds  plentiful,  as  peaches,  plums,  nectarines,  grapes,  melons, 
filberts,  pears,  apples:  retarded  small  fruits  still  seen;  also 
quinces,  morello  cherries,  and  damsons.  Mushrooms  most  plentiful 
at  this  time,  also  cucumbers. 

OCTOBER. 

Meat  as  before,  and  doe-venison.  Pasture-fed  beef  and  mutton 
are  probably  at  the  best  in  this  month.  Poultry  and  game  in  all 
Tariety,  but  young  fowls  get  dearer.  Pheasants  now  got,  and 
generally  wood-pigeons,  snipes,  and  wild  ducks,  begin  to  appear. 
FUh — Cod,  haddocks,  brill,  tench,  and  all  sorts  of  shell-fish. 
Oysters,  which  come  in  at  London  in  August,  and  at  Edinburgh 
in  September,  are  now  excellent.  Vegetables — Beans,  brocoli, 
and  cabbage  of  all  kinds  ;  beet,  onions,  leeks,  turnips,  carrots, 
lettuce,  cresses,  chardoons,  endive,  celery,  skirrets,  cucumbers, 
(scarce)  spinage,and  dried  herbs;  asparagus  gets  rare.  Fruits — 
All  sorts  of  apples  and  pears,  nuts,  waLnuts,  chestnuts,  grapes, 
and  retarded  gooseberries. 

NOVEMBER  AND  DECEMBER. 

Meat — Beef  and  mutton  prime.  Heuse-lamb  and  veal.  Suck- 
ing-pig. Buck-venison  goes  out.  Fish — All  good  about  this 
time.  Salmon  dear.  Poultry  gets  very  dear  in  large  towns 
about  this  season,  but  is  to  be  got  of  all  kinds;  also  woodcocks 
and  snipes,  mallards  and  sea-fowl;  game  generally  cheap  now. 

It  is,  however,  quite  impossible  rigidly  to  fix  the  seasons  of 
provisions,  and  much  less  their  price.  Meat^  generally  speaking, 
IS  cheapest  in  the  latter  end  of  autumn,  and  dearest  in  spring. 
Beef  is  found  prime  all  the  year  round,  but  small  natural  pasture- 
fed  beef  is  at  the  best  in  October;  so  is  hill-mutton:  both  fall 
away  in  the  winter,  and  are  lean  in  spring.  Veal  is  good  from 
Christmas  till  after  Midsummer,  and  is  at  the  cheapest  from  the 
end  of  May  until  August.  It  is  always  rather  dearer  in  propor- 
tion than  lamb.     House-lamb  is  less  liable  to  variation  than 


576  BXPLAMATION  OF  VVmVAL 

Other  nest;  in  faot,  it  is  seldom  obeap,  and  always  Tory  dear  tUI 
after  Chrittmas.  Grass-lamb  is  one  of  the  few  thin^^  that  is  at 
its  best  when  dearest.  In  Augnst  and  September  it  beoomca 
eheap>  bat  coarser.  Pork,  as  it  Taries  much  in  qoality,  also 
▼aries  in  price,  from  local  situation.  It  is  always  dear  ia  I<ondoii. 
Poultry  is  found  cheapest  in  great  towns  in  the  end  of  summer; 
and,  in  remote  places,  about  Christmas,  or  before  spring;  —  or 
wont  to  be,  for  now  railways  and  steamers  haye  annihilated  space 
and  nearly  equalized  prices.  The  same  mighty  agents  haTC 
hastened  and  prolonged  the  seasons  of  many  table  luxuries. 
Edinburgh,  for  example,  now  gets  green  peas  from  London  so 
early  as  May,  and  returns  the  gift  in  September,  so  that  both 
cities  may  ha^e  a  four  months'  season.  Wild-fowl  and  sea- 
birds,  like  fish,  depend  in  price  on  the  supply.  Eggs  get 
dearest  just  before  Christmas,  and  are  cheapest  about  Easter. 
Vegetables,  except  perhaps  young  peas  and  early  small  salads 
herbs,  are  always  best  when  cheapest,  that  is,  in  June,  July,  and 
August.  They  are  often  cheap  in  spring,  when  the  gardeners 
clear  their  grounds  to  receiye  fresh  crops.  Eschalots  and  carrots 
to  store,  and  beans,  cabbage,  and  cucumbers  to  pickle,  will  be 
best  bought  in  August  and  September;  onions,  potatoes,  and 
turnips  in  October.  Beef  and  mutton  may  be  cured  for  winter- 
store,  or  for  hams,  with  most  advantage  about  the  beginning  of 
Norember,  both  fi'om  quality  and  price.  Hams,  tongues,  and 
sausages  are  in  season  all  the  year  round,  and  are  absolutely 
necessary  when  veal  and  poultry  form  the  principal  fare.  Fruits 
ought  to  be  preseryed  when  their  seyeral  kinds  are  at  the  best 
and  cheapest,  as  plums  and  melons  about  August ;  oranges  in 
February,  &c. 


GLOSSARY 

OF  THB 

MORE  UNUSUAL  CULINARY  TERMS,  FRENCH 

AND  ENGLISH. 

Instead  of  elaborate  definitions,  we  shall,  in  most  instances, 
merely  refer  to  the  page  at  which  the  dish  or  process  signified 
is  fully  explained. 

jitpie,  see  page  383. 

AstteUes  Volantety  small  dishes  handed  round. 

AteleUy  silyer  ornamental  skewers. 

Bain  Marie,  p.  187. 


CUUNART  TERMS.  677 

,        Bardiug,  corertng  with  thin  lard  birds  or  meat  to  be  dressed. 

,        Blano,  a  rioh  stock  in  which  tripe  is  stewed,  note,  p.  414. 

i       Blarney  to,  to  soak  meat  or  vegetables  in  hot  water,  also  to  scald 

I  them,  or  give  them  firmness  or  whiteness, by  a  short  rapid  boil. 

;        BlanqtutUs,  minced  dishes,  see  p.  343. 

,        Boudifif  any  French  padding,  used  in  this  work  only  to  signify 

I  paddings  of  meat  or  fish,  p.  41 3. 

j        BouUli,  boiled  meat  of  any  kind,  but  generally  said  of  boiled  beef. 

BouiUon,  broth  or  boiled  liquor,  of  many  kinds. 
I        Bouillon,  Court,  a  liquor  for  boiling  fish,  p.  406. 

Braise,  to,  see  p.  338. 

Braises,  dishes  braised  or  cooked  in  a  braise,  p.  338. 

Brisket,  the  breast  of  beef,  veal,  or  lamb. 

Broth,  a  term  frequently  used  for  stock, 

Buissott,  a  cluster,  or  bush  of  small  pastry,  piled  up  on  the  dish. 

OcmneloHs,  small  collars  or  rolls  of  minced  meat,  or  of  rice  or 
pastry  with  j&uit,  so  named  from  resembling  cinnamon. 

Casserde,  an  edging,  border,  wall,  or  encasement  of  rice,  paste,  or 
mashed  potatoes,  in  which  meats  are  said  to  be  served  en  Cas- 
serole, or  saucepan  way,  p.  370. 

Chops,  slices  of  meat, usually  cut  from  the  ribs  or  neck  of  mutton, 
pork,  or  lamb,  and  generally  with  a  bit  of  bone. 

(Mrie  Acid,  lemon  or  sorrel  acid. 

Civet,  a  dark  thickish  stew,  generally  of  hare  or  venison,  p.  386. 

Clarify,  to,  to  refine,  to  purify  by  boiling,  skimming,  straining,  or 
filtering,  pp.  137,520. 

Collar,  to,  to  bone,  season,  and  roll  up  meat  or  fish  before  dressing. 

Crimp,  to,  said  of  fish  cut  into  fillets  or  slices,  as  cod,  salmon, 
skate,  or  turbot,  when  very  fresh,  and  boiled  rapidly,  till  crisp 
and  curdy. 

Croquettes,  p.  358. 

Cruitib,  to,  to  strew  with  or  dip  meat,  fish,  &c.  in  bread-crumbs. 

Cullis,  the  French  Coulis,  a  rich  gravy,  the  basis  of  sauces. 

Cutlets  or  Cotelettes,  slices  of  veiS,  mutton,  venison,  or  salmon, 
thinner  and  smaller  than  chops,  and  generally  without  bone. 

Dauhes,  an  order  of  French  dishes  dressed  en  Daube,  p.  414. 

Dejeuner,  a  la  Fourehette,  or  fork-breakfast,  a  breakfast  at  which 
the  use  of  forks  is  required  from  solid  dishes  being  served. 

Dormafifo,  said  of  dishes  which  remain  iVom  the  beginning  to  the 
end  of  a  repast,  as  the  cold  pies,  hams,  or  moulded  potted 
meats  placed  down  the  middle  of  a  table  at  large  entertain- 
ments. 

Dormant,  a,  a  centre-dish  which  is  not  removed,  and  which  1^ 
used  by  the  French,  who  never  change  the  tablecloth,  p.  587. 

DrappU  Eggs,  eggs  poached  in  sauce,  p.  432. 

En  Compote,  things  served  in  syrup,  generally  Aresh  fruits,,  pp. 
417,  514. 

En  Covronne,  things  dressed  in  form  of  a  crown. 

2o 


678  EXPLANATION  OF  UNTSUAL 

En  Ckemi§e,  fruits  rolled  in  pounded  sugur,  or  flrosted  with  it. 
EnCrouttadty  said  of  things  served  in  crusts^or  emst  shapes,  p.  370. 
En  Miroton,  p.  887. 
N.B.    In  like  manner  French  dishes  are  said  to  be  ^  ^  Mditre 

d'Hotel,  it  VEtpagnoUy  di  la  Venetienne,  &c.  from  the  sauces 

with  which  they  are  dressed  or  served. 
En  PapUlote,  generally  said  of  every  thing  served  in  twisted 

paper,  as  salmon  and  mutton  cutlets  Maintenon,  Nos.  445,  474. 
Entrees,  the  French  term  for  their  first-course  dishes. 
Entries  de  Deturte,  dishes  made  of  cold  left  meats. 
Entremeti,  the  French  term  for  second-course  dishes. 
FilUti,  things  cut  sharply  into  strips,  as  breasts  of  poultry,  fish, 

French  beans,  and  many  other  things,  No.  682. 
Forcemeat,  or  Fareemeat,  Stufing  in  general,  whether  for  meats, 

poultry,  fish,  balls  for  soup,  pies,  &c. 
Force,  to,  or  Farce,  to  stuff  with  forcemeat. 
Gamieh,  or  Oamiture,tknj  thing  useful, relishing,  or  ornamental, 

served  around  or  along  with  dressed  meats. 
Garnish,  to,  to  decorate,  to  ornament,  pp.  58, 59. 
Gigot,  the  French  and  Scottish  term  for  the  leg  of  mutton  or  lamb, 

as  distinguished  from  the  haunch  or  loin. 
Glaze,  the  rich  juices  of  meat  thickened  by  boiling  and  evapora- 
tion to  a  jelly  or  rob,  vnth  which  to  glaze  meat. 
Glaze,  to,  to  cover  meats  with  glaze,  p.  263. 
Goditeau,  a  French  forcemeat,  p.  411. 
Gratin,  a  French  forcemeat,  generally  of  poultry,- — also  the 

process  of  letting  moistened  bread-crumbs,  &c.  catch  and  crisp 

in  a  dish  over  embers. 
Gravy,  generally  in  England  understood  to  mean  the  juices  of 

roasted  meat,  and  also  strong  stock. 
Haricot,  so  called  from  the  French  word  for  beans,  with  which 

the  dish  was  originally  made ;  now  often  understood  of  any 

ragout  or  thick  stew  of  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  cut  in  pieces,  and 

dressed  with  vegetables  and  roots. 
Herbs,  Savoury  or  Fine,  are  parsley,  mushrooms,  chives,  roeam- 

bole,  tarragon,  &c. 
Herbs,  Sweet,  are  lemon- thyme,  mint,  basil,  bay -leaf,  &c. 
Hors  d*ciuvres,  p.  405. 
Hotch-potch,  any  thin  stew,  or  stew  soup,  of  meat  cut  in  pieces, 

and  dressed  with  iresh  vegetables ;  also  the  name  of  a  Scottish 

National  dish,  see  p.  428. 
Kitchen-Fee,  dripping,  probably  called  kitchen-fee  in  Scotland, 

from  being  formerly  the  perquisite  of  the  cook. 
Lard,  to,  to  enrich  meats,  poultry^  &o.  by  introducing  strips  of 

lard  into  them  with  an  implement  or  sort  of  needle  used  for 

that  purpose  ;  also  said  of  introducing  parsley,  &c.  in  the  same 

manner. 
Lardons,  strips  of  lard. 
Liaison,  a  thickening,  generally  of  beat  eggs,  sometimes  of  cream 


CVIINABT  TEBMS.  579 

ftnd  eggs,  iniended  to  tie  or  connect  the  component  parts  of  i 
dish,  p.  360.  Soups  and  sauces,  with  a  liaison  should  be  kept 
hot,  in  a  pot  of  water,  or  bain  marie^  lest  the  fire  curdle  them. 

Maigre :  —  Preparations  of  all  kinds,  if  made  without  butcher's 
meat,  poultry,  or  game,  and  cooked  merely  with  butter,  where 
lard  or  dripping  might  at  other  times  be  proper,  are  tnaigref  in 
opposition  to  fras. 

Maigre  Dishes,  dishes  used  by  Roman  Catholics  on  the  days 
when  their  Churdi  forbids  flesh-meats ;  comprehending  all  fish 
and  vegetable  pies  and  soups,  puddings,  fruit-pies,  egg-dishes, 
omelets,  fritters,  macaroni,  all  preparations  of  fish,  cheese- 
dishes,  fish-sausages,  and  all  creams,  jellies,  and  confectionary, 
also  dressed  Fegetables,  pickles  and  preserves,  cakes  and 
biscuits. 

Marinade^  a,  a  compound  liquor  of  various  kinds,  generally  made 
of  wine  or  vinegar,  with  herbs  and  spices,  in  which  fish  or 
meats  are  soaked  before  they  are  dressed,  to  improve  their 
flavour  or  quality. 

Marinade,  to,  to  steep  in  a  marinade,  as  No.  22,  and  Obs.  No.  112. 

Panada,  a  batter  for  mixing  with  forcemeats,  anciently  employed 
for  basting,  p.  113,  note. 

Pass,  to,  French  passer,  to  give  things  a  half  or  third  part,  cook- 
ing hcutily,  in  the  stew-pan,  fi7ing-pan,  or  saut^-pan. 

PoUe,  to,  to  cook  meat  in  a  particular  kind  of  rich  stock,  p.  414. 

Probe,  to,  to  pierce  to  the  heart  or  inside  of  butter,  cheese,  hams, 
&c.  with  a  probe,  to  try  their  qualities  by  sight  or  smell ;  — 
also,  to  try  if  potatoes,  turnips,  gourds,  &c.  are  enough  boiled. 

Puree,  a,  a  pulpy  mash  of  onions,  celery,  turnips,  mushrooms, 
peas,  or  chestnuts,  thinner  than  a  mash,  but  thicker  than  a 
sauce,  over  which,  |n  French  Ck>okery,  meats  are  often  served. 

Reduce,  to,  to  boil  a  sauce  or  soup  rapidly  down  to  a  jelly,  or  till 
it  become  rich  and  thick. 

Refresh,  to,  to  steep  or  soak  meats,  but  particularly  vegetables, 
in  plenty  of  pure  water,  changing  it,  or  letting  it  flow  off;  as 
spinage,  when  boiled,  ia  often  held  in  a  colander,  under  the 
water-cock,  to  refresh  it  before  being  flnished. 

Roux,  thickening,  white  and  brown,  p.  259-260. 

Salads,  cold  dressed  dishes  of  many  things,  but  in  modern  Eng- 
land still  generally  said  of  vegetable  messes  only,  p.  248. 

Sandwiches,  a  class  of  relishing,  convenient  prepasations^  named 
firom  the  noble  inventor,  p.  362. 

Sauter,  to  give  a  light  fry,  or,  Scottio^  a  leap. 

Sauti-pan,  a  thin  bottomed  frying-pan. 

Scallops,  or  Scollopsj  small  dishes  of  various  kinds,  so  called  iVom 
being  served  either  in  real  scallop-shells,  or  little  shapes  re- 
sembling them,  Nob.  17B,  669. 

Sippets,  little  bits  of  bread  cut  in  various  shapes,  soaked  in  stock, 
and  toasted  or  fried,  to  serve  vrith  meats  as  gamishings  or 
borders,  p.  369. 


680  OUMiART. 


if  Sooiiiah,  a  ihin  broth ;  alM  the  leg  or  Bbin  of  beef  ft«>]ii 
whieh  sach  broth  is  genenlly  mado,  and  alio  to  poor  a  liquid 
ftem  one  rewel  into  another  backwards  and  forwards. 

Stoekf  broths  of  Tarions  qualities  prepared  beforehand  of  difterent 
materials^  as  the  basis  of  soaps  and  savces,  and  often  called 
gravy. 

Sweatf  tOf  to  expose  meat,  eat  or  whole,  to  a  slow  steady  heat^  to 
extract  its  joiees  with  little  water. 

Temironi  (sometimes  tendons,)  the  French  term  for  the  gristly 
parts  of  the  breast  of  veal  or  lamb,  p.  390. 

Tett,  to,  to  cook  a  little  of  any  fierce  or  other  thing,  in  order  to 
prove  its  quality,  p.  411. 

Toufie,  the  French  name  for  a  fhiit  or  other  pie. 

Fanner,  to,  the  French  term  for  working  a  sauce  smooth,  by 
rapidly  lifting  it  up  in  spoonfuls,  and  letting  it  fall  as  rapidly, 
for  a  length  of  timo- 

Vol-an-vent,  an  elegant  French  mode  of  serring  meats,  particu- 
larly things  dressed  anew,  as  cold  turbot,  chickens,  rabbits,  p. 
369,— also  a  mode  of  elegantly  serring  second-course  dishes. 

N.  B. — The  meantre  referred  to  in  this  tolume  it  ike  Imperial 
MMware — tk$  weight  the  lb,  atoirdvpoit. 


CHAPTER  II. 


MI8CBLLANB0US  RECEIPTS,  PREPARATIONS  FOR  THE  SICK  AND 
CONVALESCENT,  AND  CHEAP  DISHES. 

Gbod  broth  with  ^ood  keeping  do  much  now  and  then  ; 
Oood  diet  with  wisdom  beat  comforteth  men  ; 
In  health  to  be  strong  shall  profit  thee  best ; 
In  sickness  hate  trouble,  seek  quiet  and  rest. 

Thomas  Tussbr's  good  Hustoifdy  Phisick, 

1114.  Rice  Milk.  —  Wash  the  rice,  and  pick  out  the 
black  parts.  If  milk  be  plentifal,  it  may  be  boiled  in 
milk  ;  if  not,  boil  it  in  water  to  plump  and  soften  it,  and 
when  the  water  is  wasted  put  in  the  milk  ;  take  care  that 
the  rice  does  not  stick  to  the  saucepan.  Season  with  sugar 
and  a  bit  of  cinnamon  boiled  in  the  milk.  Currants  and 
grated  nutmeg  are  sometimes  used  with  rice  milk ;  and  the 
milk  b  made  first  thin,  and  then  thickened  to  a  caudle 
with  beat  eg^  and  flour.— -0&».  Where  boiled  rice  and 
milk  is  frequently  used  as  an  article  of  diet,  as  in  some 


MILK  DISHBS.  581 

nurseries  and  boarding-schools,  the  addition  of  a  very  little 
roughly-shred  beef  or  mutton  suet  boiled  with  it,  will  not 
only  render  it  more  nutritious,  but  more  wholesome.  A 
bit  of  lemon-peel  will  give  zest. 

1 114.'  Bread  Pudding  for  young  Children  or  Convalescents, 
-^  Dr.  Anthony  Todd  Thomson's  Receipt. — Over  a  half- 
pound  of  grated  stale  bread,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk. 
Cover  the  basin  and  let  it  soak  for  an  hour.  Add  to  it,  when 
cold,  two  eggs  beat  up.  Mix  and  boU  for  a  half  hour  in 
the  basin  tied  into  a  cloth.  Eat  with  only  salt  or  with 
sugar ;  and  flavour  with  sherry,  if  wine  is  allowed.  The 
Doctor  could  have  no  objection  to  a  bit  of  lemon  rind, 
cinnamon,  or  a  little  nutmeg. 

1114.^  Dr.  A.  T.Thomson's  Sowens  or  Flummeryior  conva- 
lescents. To  any  quantity  of  oatmeal  you  like  to  infuse, 
put  double  the  weight  of  warm  water ;  stir  well,  and  let 
the  mixture  infuse  for  four  or  five  days  in  a  warm  tem- 
perature. Add  more  water,  stir  up  and  strain.  Let  the 
liquid  stand  till  the  starch  falls  down  in  a  white  sediment ; 
pour  off  the  water,  and  mixing  as  much  of  the  starch  or 
sediment  as  is  wanted  with  water  to  thin  it,  boil,  stirring 
briskly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  a  jelly  more  or  less 
tenacious  is  formed.  Sowens  are  eaten  with  milk,  butter, 
or  cream,  and  for  convalescents,  with  wine  or  milk,  as  pre- 
scribed. 

**  Buttered  sowens  wi'  fragrant  lunt,"  was  the  Hallow 
Eve  supper  of  rural  Scotland.  Thin,  or  raw  sowens,  are 
or  were  drank  in  Aberdeen,  and  the  northern  towns  of 
Scotland,  on  New  Year's  Day  morning.  For  some  reasons 
that  we  do  not  pretend  to  understand,  sowens^  as  a  supper- 
dish,  wont  to  be  presented  at  the  noblest  tables  in  the 
north,  and  also  in  Ireland  and  Wales,  under  the  name  of 
flummery.  There  is  no  preparation  of  oatmeal  more  whole- 
some, or  more  palatable,  and  none  so  refined.  This  veritable 
oatmeal  jelly  eats  well  cold,  and  takes  any  shape  in  a  mould. 
We  have  altered,  and,  as  we  think,  improved  Dr.  Thom- 
son's receipt.  No  better  dish  of  the  kind  could  be  intro- 
duced by  him  into  England. 

1115.  tSaloop  Milk  is  made  as  No.  1114;  but,  from  its 


532  CHA.P.  II. — PREPARATI0K8  FOR  THE  SICK. 

native  flavour,  saloop  does  not  require  so  mucli,  not  indeed 
any  seasoning. 

1116.  Soffo  Milk,  —  Soak  the  berries  in  water  for  an 
hour  before  boiling ;  or  boil  first  in  water  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  which  water  pour  off.  Boil  a  large  spoonful  in  a 
quart  of  new  milk.  Sweeten  and  season  to  taste.  —  Ohs, 
The  foregoing  milks  may  be  made  of  ground  rice  and  saloop, 
using  the  flour  in  smaller  quantity. 

1117.  Scotch  Hatted  Kit, — Where  this  cooling  and  healthy 
article  of  diet  is  in  constant  use  for  children  or  delicate 
persons,  a  kit  with  a  double  bottom,  the  upper  one  perfo- 
rated with  holes,  and  furnished  with  a  fosset  and  a  cover, 
should  be  got.  Into  this  vessel,  put  in  the  proportion  of 
two  quarts  fresh  good  butter-milk,  and  a  pint  of  milk  hot 
from  the  cow.  Mix  well  by  jumbling ;  and  next  milking 
add  another  pint  of  milk,  mixing  all  well.  It  will  now 
flmi,  and  gather  a  hat*  Drain  off  the  whey  whenever  it 
runs  clear,  by  the  spigot ;  remove  what  of  the  top  or  hat 
is  necessary,  to  take  up  the  quantity  wanted.  This  dish 
if  to  present  at  table,  may  be  moulded  for  an  hour  in  a  per- 
forated mould,  and  strewed  over  with  a  little  pounded  sugar, 
and  then  nutmeg  or  dnnamon.  The  hit  must  be  well 
sweetened  with  lime-water  or  charcoal  every  time  it  is 
used  ;  and  too  much  milk  should  not  be  made  at  once,  it 
gets  so  rapidly  very  acid.  A  slight  degree  of  coagulation 
assists  digestion,  but  milk  highly  acidulated  is  not  wished 
for  in  this  dish. 

1118.  Another  and  easier  way,  —  Pour  a  quart  of  very 
hot  new  milk  over  two  quarts  of  fresh  butter-milk.  Let 
it  repose.  When  firm  take  off  the  surface,  and  drain  the 
rest  in  a  milk-sieve,  or  mould  it  if  you  choose.  Serve  cream 
in  a  jug. 

ni9.  Gorstorphine  or  Rttglen  Creamy  or  Lappered 
Milk,  —  Pour  a  quart  of  new  milk  into  a  jar.  On  this, 
next  morning,  pour  another,  and  mix  well ;  at  night  do 
the  same  ;  and  next  day  beat  up  the  thickened  milk  with 
moist  sugar.  This  cooling  preparation  was  patronized  by 
Sir  John  Sinclair.  It  may  be  made  like  hatt&d  iit,  of  mixed 
butter-milk  and  sweet  milk.  — Indeed  there  is  a  learned 


MILK  DISHES  AND  VEaATABLE  JELLIES.  583 

controversy  on  the  genuine  preparation ;  and  another  as  to 
whether  its  invention  really  belongs  to  Corstorphine  near 
Edinburgh,  or  to  the  village  of  Ruthei^len  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  the  western  metropolis. 

1120.  Sour  Milk  Crotcdie,  —  Pour  fresh  good  butter- 
milk upon  finely  ground  oatmeal,  till  as  thin  as  pancake 
batter.     Stir  the  mixture. 

1121.  Sa^o  for  the  delicate^  —  also  a  Supper^diih, — 
Soak  the  berries,  changing  the  water.  Simmer'with  a  bit 
of  lemon-peel  till  the  berries  look  transparent.  When 
nearly  done,  add  aromatic  spices,  (i,  e,  nutmeg,  mace,  and 
cloves)  to  taste,  with  wine  and  sugar  to  taste.  Give  the 
whole  a  boil  up  before  dishing  it.  —  Obs.  Sago  and  patent 
cocoa,  pounded  in  equal  quantities,  and  a  spoonful  boiled  in 
milk,  with  sugar  to  taste,  make  a  nutritious  breakfast. 

1122.  Arrouhroot  Jelly,  —  This  may  be  prepared  with 
either  water,  milk,  or  white  wine  and  water,  according  to 
the  purpose  for  which  it  is  wanted,  and  sweetened  and  sea- 
soned to  taste.  Rub  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  the  flour  well  with 
a  little  cold  water,  as  in  making  starch,  and  pour  over  it 
a  pint  of  the  boiling  liquid  to  be  used.  Stir  it  the  whole 
time  it  is  on  the  fire.  Three  minutes  will  dress  it.  —  Obs. 
This  jelly,  made  in  a  shape  and  turned  out,  makes  a  light 
and  pretty  supper-dish,  garnished  with  bits  of  red  currant 
jelly,  or  may  serve  for  luncheon  to  young  persons  and  chil- 
dren. Potato-flour  is  done  in  the  same  way,  but  it  must 
be  boiled  longer  to  be  good  or  safe.  Arrow- root  need  not 
be  boiled,  and  often  is  not,  though  it  is  best  so  cooked. 

1123.  A  simple  Indian  Ourriefor  a  Convalescent, — Take 
a  clove  of  garlic  and  a  small  onion  ;  bruise  them  in  a  mor« 
tar,  with  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  the  powder  described  in  next 
receipt,  and  a  tea-spoonful  and  a  half  of  salt.  Slice  ano- 
ther onion,  and  fry  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  good  piece  of 
butter.  Let  it  fry  till  the  onion  is  brown.  Pick  out  the 
shreds  of  onion,  and  put  the  mixed  ingredients  into  the  pan 
with  A  tea-spoonful  of  good  butter-milk,  or  soured  cream  ; 
add  to  this  a  young  fowl  skinned,  and  carved  into  joints  ; 
and  simmer  till  it  is  ready,  stirring  the  whole  quickly. 

1124.  The  Simple  Currie  Powder»-^One  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  white  ginger,  two  of  coriander-seeds.     Half  a  one 


584  CHAP.  n. — PRBPAIUnONg  FOA  THB  8ICK. 

of  tDnneric,  a  quarter  one  of  cayenne  ;  acid  to  be  added 
at  pleasure  to  the  currie  when  nearly  ready. 

1126.  Vegetabh  Marrew  <>r  Chmrds, —  Parboil  the  fruit 
Take  it  up  ;  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  cut  out  a 
longitudinal  piece  reaching  to  the  heart  of  it ;  and  draining 
out  the  moisture  from  the  fruit,  replace  the  piece  cut  out, 
and  fasten  it  with  thread.  Boil  in  water  with  salt,  tiH  on 
probing  it  is  found  that  the  marroii^  is  thoroughly  done. 
It  may  be  either  served  whole  or  divided  on  a  toast,  with 
melted  butter  poured  over;  or  mashed  with  cream  and 
butter ;  or  treated  as  at  Nos.  203-4. 

1126.  Meat  cuhhuhed  or  kihobhedy — a  good  Dinner  for 
an  invalid. — Cut  veal,  beef,  or  mutton,  lean  but  juicy, 
into  small  bits.  Beat  them  slightly ;  run  them  on  wire 
skewers,  and  fasten  these  to  the  small  whirling  wire-jack. 
Baste  well  with  dropt  gravy,  using  a  little  butter  at  first ; 
dust  with  salt  when  ready,  and  pepper  or  currie  powder, 
at  discretion.  Serve  either  with  grilled  toasts  or  boiled 
dry  rice. 

N.B.  A  chicken  or  rabbit  may  be  skinned,  quartered, 
and  done  as  above.  What  is  called  eubbubed  currie  is 
made  as  any  other  currie,  but  half  of  the  meat  is  pork, 
fresh  or  pickled,  with  more  garlic  and  turmeric  than  are 
ever  employed  in  our  cookeiy.  Fresh  pork  in  any  form 
of  fry  or  currie  is  not  relished  in  this  country,  and  is 
seldom  seen,  save  perhaps,  of  necessity,  on  board  of  ship. 
If  for  a  landward  dinner,  we  would  recommend  a  lai^ 
allowance  of  acid  with  pork  currie.  It  seems  an  absurdity 
to  eurrie  the  flesh  of  an  animal  the  Hindoos  abhor. 

1127.  Gloucester  Jelly  for  Invalids. — This  is  made  of 
equal  parts  of  rice,  sago,  pearl- barley,  hartshorn- shavings, 
and  eringo-root ;  four  t>unces  of  the  ingredients  to  nearly 
two  quarts -of  water.  Simmer  slowly  for  an  hour,  and 
strain  it.  The  jelly  may  be  dissolved  at  pleasure  in  milk, 
wine,  soup,  &c.,  and  is  reckoned  nourishing  and  light.*— 
Obs»  This  is  sometimes  called  Dr,  Jebb's  Restoraiive 
Jelly*  It  makes  a  good  breakfast  for  invalids,  when 
warmed  in  milk  and  sugar. 

1128.  2>r.  Hunter^ 8  Dtnnep^fnr  a  deHeate  Person,-^^*^  Cut 
a  piece  of  veal  into  slices,  beat^  and  put  these  into  a^i 


JELLIBS.  689 

earthen-ware  can  with  plenty  of  sliced  turnip.  Cover  the 
vessel,  and  let  it  stand  up  to  the  brim  in  boiling  water. 
Add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  when  done.  This  simple 
dishy  says  the  learned  Doctor,  contains  all  the  juices  of 
the  veal,  with  the  addition  of  saccharine  matter  afforded 
by  the  turnip.  The  Romans  were  acquainted  with  this 
mode  of  cookery  ;  it  was  what  they  meant  by  per  duplex 
vas  eaquereJ'  Beef  may  also  be  dressed  thus  :  — Soups  of 
sheep's  head  or  trotters,  or  calFs  feet  boiled  slowly  to  a 
weak  jelly,  are  excellent  invalid  dishes  in  many  cases. 
They  diould  be  served  with  grilled  toasts  (No.  81)  which 
are  often  acceptable  to  a  stomach  too  delicate. to  bear  other 
food. 

1129.  Bitrky-water, — Wash  common  or  pearl  barley, 
and  take  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  to  a  quart  of 
water.  Give  it  a  boil  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  very  little 
water,  and  strain  off  this,  and  take  fresh  water,  which  will 
make  the  barley-water  lighter  and  of  a  better  colour. 
Boil  it  down  one-half  when  it  is  strained.  Lemon-peel 
and  sugar  may  be  added,  or  a  compound  draught  made, 
by  adding  to  every  pint  of  the  decoction  an  ounce  of 
stoned  raisins,  a  quart«r-ounee  of  sliced  liquorice-root,  and 
three  or  four  figs.  With  lemon-juice  it  is  less  cloying,  and 
more  grateful  to  the  sick.  Currant-jelly  answers  very 
well  mixed  in  barley-water. 

1180.  Panada, — ^Slice  the  crumb  of  a  loaf  very  thin,  and 
soak  or  boil  it  gently  in  water ;  when  soft,  beat  it  well, 
and  add  sugar  and  wine,  or  a  little  rum.  A  little  butter 
may  be  added  to  it. — Obs,  Panada  may  be  made  of  chicken- 
broth  instead  of  water,  and  seasoned  with  a  little  mace,  or 
a  bit  of  lemon-peel. 

1131.  Wkke  Caudle. — Mix  two  large  spoonfuls  of  finely- 
ground  oat-meal  in  water,  two  hours  previous  to  usiug  it ; 
strain  it  from  the  grits  and  boil  it.  Sweeten,  and  add 
wine  and  seasonings  to  taste.  Nutmeg  or  a  little  lemon- 
juice  answer  best  for  seasoning. 

1181.'  Brown  Caudley  the  Scaieh  Ale-Berty^  is  made  as 
above,  using  mild  sweet  small  beer  instead  of  water. — OAt. 
Candle  may  be  made  of  rice-flour  or  wheat>flour,  with  milk 
and  water,  sweetening  it  to  taste. 


586  CHAP.  11. — MlflfillLLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

1132.  Betf-Tw, — Cat  a  pound  of  lean,  fresh,  juicy  beef 
into  thin  bits,  and  ponr  a  quart,  or  better,  of  hot  water 
over  it ;  infuse  this  for  a  half-hour  by  the  fire,  and  th^ 
let  it  boil  up  quickly  with  a  little  salt,  and  take  ofif  the 
scum.  Boil  gently  for  a  half-hour,  and  let  it  settle ;  pour 
carefully  from  the  sediment,  or  strain  it.  Beef-tea  is 
sometimes  made  by  simple  infusion,  but  this  is  a- rather 
disgusting  preparation  to  most  people ;  and  sometimes  a 
steak  is  half-broiled  and  then  cut  down,  and  has  boiling 
water  poured  over  it.  Veal  or  Chicken-tea  is  made  in 
the  same  way  as  beef-tea. 

Besides  the  above  preparations,  many  receipts  are  scat- 
tered through  this  work,  for  dishes  proper  for  convalescents. 
Among  these  are  barley-broth,  and  sheep's-head-broth,  if 
cleared  of  fat ;  broiled  chickens,  skinned ;  or  fowl  and 
chicken  plain  boiled,  with  rice ;  rizzared  haddock ;  chicken 
d  la  Paysanne^  which  Car^me  upholds  as  the  most  whole- 
some dish  that  can  be  prepared.  Sweetbreads,  plainly 
dressed ;  and  the  various  plain  preparations  of  macaroni, 
vermicelli,  semolina,  and  rice ;  all  of  these,  well  boiled, 
either  with  milk  or  broth.  Good  broth,  not  fat,  but 
rich,  and  thickened  with  panada,  is  another  excellent  dish 
for  those  whose  strength  requires  to  be  supported,  and  who 
must  not  use  food  too  stimulating.  Dr.  A.  T.  Thomson 
mentions  tripe  as  particularly  light  or  easy  of  digestion, 
when  cooked  till  very  tender :  it  makes,  at  least,  a  variety 
in  the  diet  of  convalescents.  Arrow-root,  blancmange,  or 
pudding  without  eggs  or  with  only  one  egg,  is  good  in  early 
convalescence ;  and  apples,  stewed  with  or  without  cooked 
rice.  Boiled  bread-pudding,  with  few  eggs  one  or  two,  la 
also  good  ;  and  plain  paddings  of  rice,  or  tapioca,  seasoned 
with  cinnamon  or  ginger,  but  with  little  eggs  or  sugar. 

TO  MOULD  MEAT-CAKE,  AND  POTTED  MEATS /or  the  SeCOfld 

Course^  or  for  Collations  and  Suppers. 
1133.  Fill  a  handsome  shape,  round,  if  for  a'  centre- 
dish,  but  if  for  Skjlanky  to  which  potted  meat  is  more  ap- 
propriate, with  No.  466.  Press  the  meat  very  close  into 
the  mould,  when  quite  cold  ;  if  to  keep  long,  pour  over  it 
a  layer  of  cool  melted  butter.  It  will  keep  thus  for  days 
or  weeks*     When  required,  take  off  the  cake  of  butter; 


07  COFFEE.  587 


I  wrap  a  napkin,  dipped  in  boiling  water,  round  the  mould, 

I  and  gently  detach  the  meat  from  the  sides,  and  carefully 

I  turn  it  out,  placing  a  dish  over  the  mould  to  receive  it. 

I  Lightly  demi-glaze  it,  and  ornament  the  dish  with  a  border 

\  of  aspic-jelly,  cut  in  diamonds,  buttons,  &c.,  interspersed 

i  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  —  hens',  but  plovers'  if  you  have 

I  them.' 

I  Another,     Of  the  remains  of  this  dish  you  may  make 

,  a  handsome  little  dish,  by  dressing  circular  slices  of  it,  en 

I  mirdton,  round  a  centre  of  trimmed  endive,  or  very  white 
cos  lettuce. — See  No.  465. 

I  OF  COFFEE. 

I  1134.  Cojee  by  the  Imperial  Percolator, — P,S,  Touch^ 

1         wood's  Method, — Pour  some  boiling  water  into  the  perco- 
I         lator,  and  let  it  remain  till  the  metal  of  the  pot  is  tho« 
,         roughly  heated.     Put  the  coflFee-powder  into  the  proper 
j         receptacle,  between  the  perforated  bottoms  of  the  upper 
I         and  under  cylinders.    Pour  out  the  hot  water  from  the 
pot,  and  put  into  the  upper  cylinder  of  the  percolator  as 
j         much  boiling  water  as  will  completely  saturate  the  coffee- 
powder  ;  a  small  tea-cupful  will  be  sufficient.    In  about 
two  minutes,  fill  the  cylinder  with  boiling  water ;  place 
the  percolator  by  the  fire,  or  over  a  hot- water  dfelh,  and, 
when  the  coffee  has  filtered  through,  pour  in  again  as 
much  water  as  will  make  the  quantity  required. 

N,B, — This  process  may  appear  tedious  in  detail,  but 
nothing  is  more  simple  and  easy  in  daily  practice.  In 
about  iiY^  minutes  coffee  may  be  made  for  four  or  five 
persons.  When  the  filtered  coffee  is  poured  into  a  small 
vessel,  brought  to  the  boiling  point,  and  again  returned  to 
the  cylinder,  and  filtered  a  second  time,  it  is  exactly  the 
coffee  of  the  Society  of  Gourmands. — No.  1135. 

1134.^  OuB  Latest  Experiiients. — Since  the  last  edi* 
tion  of  this  Manual  was  published,  the  art  of  coffee-mak- 
ing has  been  carried  nearly  to  perfection  in  this  country, 
by  the  application  of  steam  to  the  coffee-powder,  previous 
to  making  the  iitfusion.  This  is  done  in  a  simple  and 
easy  way,  by  means  of  the  Steam  Filteb,  a  discovery  for 
which  the  coffee-drinking  world  is  indebted  to  a  Member 
of  the  St.  Ronait^s  Club*    The  Steam  Filter  is  adaptefd  t||_ 


588  CHAP,  n.— MlflCULAltaOUS  iubckiftb. 

•vwy  existing  form  of  coffee-pot.     The  cook  or  amateur 
proceeds  thus : — ^To  m akb  Coffee  with  the  Steam  Futbb. 
The  powder,  according  to  the  degree  of  strength  desired, 
is  plsced  in  the  filter,  (formed  of  iron*wire  or  silver- wire,) 
and  shaken  lerel.     It  u  then,  for  two  or  three  minat^ 
according  to  the  quantity,  placed  in  the  month  of  the  tin 
steamer,  that  the  steam  may  pass  freely  through  the 
powder.     The  filter  is  then  placed  in  the  month  of  the 
coffee-pot  or  percolator,  (previously  heated,)  and  the  hoil- 
ing  water  poured  over  in  the  ordinary  way.     It  will  now 
be  found  that  the  steam  has  dislodged  the  air  from  the 
coffee-powder,  and  that  the  water  will  pass  through  the 
stratum  of  coffee-powder  so  quickly,  that  it  may  be  ima- 
gined the  virtue  is  not  extracted  from  the  material.    The 
resulty  however,  proves  that  the  infusion  is  perfectly  clear, 
comparatively  strong,  and  highly  aromatic,  though  not  so 
deep  in  colour  as  coffee  prepared  by  a  slower  process  of 
filtration.    It  is  ascertained  that  deep-coloured  coffee  is 
strong  to  the  eye  only,  while  that  of  a  paler  tint  possesses 
all  the  grateful  and  aromatic  qualities  of  the  berry,  with- 
out the  disagreeable  astringent  bitter  connected  with  the 
colouring  matter  of  the  coffee,  and  which  attends  too  great 
torrefa^on  and  slow  filtration. 

1135.  Cojffee  by  the  Receipt  of  the  Authors  of  the  Code  det 
Gourmands,  adopted  by  the  members  of  the  Caveau  Mo- 
demey  and  communicated  to  theSt,  Bonan*s  Club, — It  is  given 
in  their  own  words :  —  ^'  Apr^s  avoir  nous-memes  experi- 
ment6  en  cent  famous,  nous  avons  fini  par  nous  arr^ter  )k 
la  mani^re  suivante,  qui  nous  donnons  pour  officielh  : 

**  On  brule  separ6ment,  et  soi-meme,  une  partie  de  caf6 
Martinique  vert,  une  caf6  Bourbon,  une  Moka.  [La 
bont^  de  la  liqueur  depend  specialement  du  degr6  de  tone- 
faction  ;  la  moindre  negligence  k  cet  6gard  alt^re  le  par- 
fum  du  call.  Brule  a  point,  le  grain  doit  Stre  alezan  clair* 
II  vaut  mieux  bruler  moins  que  plus;  rinconv6nient  sub-  ' 
siBte  dans  les  deux  oas,  mais  dans  le  premier  il  est  moins 
desastreux.]  On.opere  ensuite  le  melange,  et  on  reduit 
le  tout  in  poudre,  pas  trop  fine.  Puis  on  op^ra  d'apres  le 
syst^me  de  la  cafeti^re  Dhbellot,  qui  consists  k  verser 
I'eau  bouillante  sur  le  c&U  plac6  dans  un  vase  a  doubles 


COFfBE.  689 

fondsy  perc^s  de  tr^petits  trous.  L'eau  a'dconle  charg^e 
de  ioute  la  pariie  essentielle.  On  la  met  alors  sur  le  feu 
jusqu'k  Ebullition,  on  la  repasse  de  nonyeaa  dans  Tappareil, 
et  I'on  obtient  un  caf6  aussi  clair  ausei  bon  qu'il  se  puisse 
faire."  It  is  added,  ^  Celui  qui  a  le  gosier  pav6  et  peut 
ayaler  toute  bouillante  oette  d^licieuse  boisson  ne  doit 
plus  envier  Fiddle  ambroisie."  * 

1136.  To  make  Coffee^  Buonaparte't  Way.  —  Put  the 
ground  cofiee  into  a  vessel  with  a  strainer,  and  pour  the 
water  on  it  perfectly  cold ;  plunge  this  yessel  into  another 
filled  with  boiling  water,  which  must  be  kept  at  the  boil- 
ing pitch  till  the  process  is  completed.  This  method  is 
thought  to  preserve  the  aroma  of  the  berry. 

1137.  Parisian  Coffee^  as  made  by  M.  Dtdelhy. — 
Take,  when  the  coffee  is  needed,  nearly  four  ounces  of  the 
best  powder  recently  prepared,  and  put  it,  with  a  very 

*  The  Frencb,  if  not  the  most  akilfdl  coffee-brewen  in  the  world, 
which  perhaps  they  are,  celebEKtod  as  the  cofPee  of  Germany  is,  are  at 
least  its  most  devoted  swallowenu  Their  Voltaire  and  their  Napoleon 
were  the  greatest  reputed  coffee-bibbers  of  modem  times.  This  beve- 
rage was  called  the  hippocrene  of  Voltaire.  One  of  the  most  agreeable 
passages  of  De  Lille  is  devoted  to  its  praise, — at  onoe  a  recipe  and  a 
eolqgy.    He  has  done  for  it  what  Cowper  has  done  for  Tea  in  England. 

"  II  est  nne  liqnenr  an  poete  bien  chere,  ^ 

Qui  manquait  k  Virile,  et  qu^adorait  Voltaire  ; 

G*est  toi,  divin  Ca/e,  dont  raimable  liqueur, 

Sans  alt^r,  la  t^te,  epanonit  le  cesur  I 

Ainsi,  quand  mon  palais  est  emousse  par  Tage, 

Avec  pfaisir  encore  je  goiite  ton  breuvage. 

Que  j  aime  k  preparer  ton  nectar  pr^cieux  ! 

Nul  nhisurpe  eh&t  moi  ce  soin  delicieuz ; 

Sur  le  rechaud  brfidant,  moi  seul,  toumant  ta  graine, 

A  Tor  de  ta  couleur  fais  succ6der  Tebene ; 

Moi  seul,  contre  la  noix  qu*arment  ses  dents  de  fer 

Je  fais,  en  le  broyant,  crier  ton  fruit  amer. 

Gharme  de  ton  parfum,  c^est  moi  seul  qui,  dans  Ponde, 

Infuse  k  mon  foyer  ta  poussidre  f^conde ; 

Qui,  tour-fl-tour,  calmant,  exitant  tes  bouillons, 

Suis  d^in  ceil  attentif,  tes  lagers  tourbillons. 

Enfin,  de  ta  liqueur,  lentement  repos6e, 

Dans  le  vase  furaant  la  lie  est  d6pos6e ; 

Ma  coupe,  ton  nectar,  le  miel  Am^ricain 

Que  du  sue  des  roseaux  exprima  TAfricain, 

Tout  est  pret : — du  Japone  TSmail  recjoit  tes  ondes, 

Et  seul  tu  reunis  les  tributs  des  deux  mondes. 

Viens  done,  divin  nectar  !  viens  done ;  inspire-moi : 

Je  ne  venx  qu^un  desert,  mon  Antigone  et  toi  I 


590  CHAP.  1I«— MI8CELt.AKC017S  RBCBIPTS, 

little  shred  saflFron,  into  a  OrequeJ^      Pour  in   boiling 
water  till  it  babbles  up  through  the  stnuner,  and  then 
dose  the  ressel,  and  place  it  near  the  fire ;  and  as  soon 
as  the  whole  water  is  passed  through,  the  coffee  is  made. 
1138.  To  make  Coffee  by  a  simple  tmd  good  Method, 
•^Pour  boiling  water  in  the  proportion  of  six  cupfals  to 
one  cupful  of  freshly-ground  cofiee ;  but  doable  or  triple 
the  coffee  if  for  foreigners,— e and  Britons  s^om  quarrel 
with  this  double-strong  when  they  meet  with  it.     Let  this 
be  on  the  point  of  boiling  for  two  minutes,  held  over  the 
fire,  and  taken  off  at  pleasure,  so  as  to  keep  np  the  tem- 
perature, but  not  to  permit  any  violent  ebullition.     Poor 
out  a  cupful  two  or  three  times,  returning  it ;  and  set  the 
coffee-pot  on  the  hob  to  keep  hot,  while  the  coffee  clears. 
If  the  hob  is  too  hot,  the  coffise  will  not  clear.     It  will 
spoil  from  being  kept  nearly  boiling.     The  receipts  for 
making  coffee,  which  are  given  in  many  Cookery-books, 
must  completely  drive  off  the  flavour  of  the  berry,  from 
the  length  of  time  that  the  coffee  is  directed  to  be  boUed. 
Flour  of  mustard,  in  the  proportion  of  a  small  tea>spoon- 
ful  to  the  ounce  of  powder,  is  thought  by  some  persons  to 
improve  the  flavour;  but  is,  we  think,  to  be  tolerated  only 
for  gouty  or  rheumatic  invalids.    Coffee  made  beforehand, 
and  heated  up  for  use,  is  a  vile  slop,  detested  by  every 
coffee-drinker,  and  every  one  else  who  has  the  taste  of  his 
mouth.    When  coffee  must  be  got  ready  for  travellers, 
sportsmen,  and  others,  before  servants  can  reasonably  be 
expected  to  be  astir,  the  Essence  is  valuable ;  but  if  coffee 
is  prepared  over-night,  let  it  be  of  triple  strength,  and  be 
reduced  by  water  or  milk.    Some  modern  amateurs  in 
coffee  like  the  cream  (rich  and  thick)  a  little  sourish,  and 
beat  up  with  the  sugar  in  the  cup  to  keep  it  from  curdling, 
before  the  hot  coffee  is  poured  in.    To  those  whom  habit 
has  brought  to  relish  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the  Essence, 
it  will  give  somewhat  of  that  taste.    A  scup^on  of  chicory 
is  an  improvement  to  coffee.     It  is  its  excess  that  gives  rise 
to  complaints.   We  have  tried  the  home  manufacture  once 
and  again  ;  but,  after  all,  find  no  coffee  equal  to  that  pre- 

*  A  utensil  which  is  osed  in  Paris,  similar  to  our  now  okl-£uhioned 
Imperial  Percolator. 


tOFFEB-MILK.  ^91 

pared  systematically,  in  great  qaantitiesy  by  those  great 
dealers,  who  have  a  cofiee  reputation  to  maintain.  -— 
Ohs,  By  attending  to  the  above  simple  receipt,  if  the 
coffee-powder  is  good,  and  not  ground  too  finely,  no  isin- 
glass, whites  of  eggs,  &c.,  will  be  required  to  clear  it. 
The  bad  quality  of  English  coffee  is  become  a  sort  of 
national  reproach,  but  we  are  improving.  Its  capital 
defect  is  a  want  of  material,  or  that  material  having  either 
lain  too  long  in  powder  or  in  roasted  berries.  Good  cream 
is  essential  to  good  English  coffee.  Lisbon  sugar,  or 
pounded  white  candy,  is  often  ordered,  but  coffee-sugar  is 
now  prepared.  Coffee,  like  tea,  promotes  watchfulness; 
indeed  some  persons  cannot  sleep  after  drinking  it  in  an 
evening.  It  is  considered  good  for  asthmatic  patients. 
Ck>ffee  is  also  considered  beneficial  in  dull  headach.  Roasted 
acorns,  beech-mast,  rye,  peas,  beans,  &c.  &c.,  are  all  used 
as  substitutes  for  coffee  ;  and,  by  frugal  French  families, 
chicory,  in  large  quantity,  put  to  the  coffee-grounds, 
and  boiled  up  afresh,  is  allotted  to  servants  and  younger 
members  of  the  household. 

1139.  Cafi  d  la  CrSme. — Make  very  strong,  clear  coffee. 
Add  boiled  cream  to  it,  and  heat  them  together.  It  is 
always  proper  to  boil  the  milk  or  cream  for  coffee  sepa- 
rately, 

1140.  Coffee-Milk.  —  Boil  coffee-powder,  according  to 
the  strength  you  want  it,  in  new  milk,  for  five  minutes. 
Allow  it  to  settle  and  pour  it  off,  or  clear  it  with  a  few 
bits  of  isinglass.     It  is  safer  to  boil  the  milk  first. 

1141-  Cafe  Noir — The  after-dinner  small  cup  of 
France,  and  now  often  served  in  English  drawing-rooms, 
after  dinner,  and  followed  by  a  small  glass  of  some  de- 
licious liqueur,  —  which  a  worthy  lady  in  one  of  Mrs. 
TroUope's  novels  t^kes  solely  for  love  of  **  the  flavour," — ^is 
made  as  strong  as  possible  to  be  clear,  and  served  with 
sugar,  but  «otr,  and  consequently  without  cream. 
Essence  of  coffee  is  convenient  for  making  extempore  cafe 
noir^  and  is  useful  in  particular  situations ;  but,  besides 
being  expensive,  it  can  never  be  compared  with  fresh  well- 
made  coffee,  of  good  well-roasted  berries.  A  tea-spoonful 
is  put  into  the  cup,  and  boiling  water  poured  on. 


592  CHAP.  n. — ^lfI8CSU.A.NSOV8  lUBCBIPTS. 

1142*  Chocolate^  to  make.  —  Boil  equal   quantities  ol 
good  new  milk  and  water.     Scrape  down  the   chocolate 
aooording  to  the  strength  and  quantity  wanted,  and  take 
the  milk  and  water  off  the  fire.     Throw  in  the  chocolate 
and  sugar,  and  mill  it  well  and  rapidly,  that  it  may  be 
served  with  the  froth  on  it^  and  completely  hlended  with 
the  milk.      It  is  now,  eyen  in  this  country,  sometimes 
flaronred  with  vanilla. — Oh»,  Chocolate  is  sometimes  made 
as  gruel  for  delicate  persons.    Where  much  is  nsed,  it  is 
thought  an  economical  plan  to  make  a  pint  of  very  strong 
chocolate,  and  to  boil  up  a  couple  or  three  or  four  spoon- 
fuls of  this  in  milk,  water,  and  sugar,  as  it  is  wanted, 
milling  it  well.    It  is  best  fre8h-*made  if  possible. 

Spanish  ChoeoUUe,  excellent. — '^  Mix  with  six  pounds 
of  the  pounded  nut^  three  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  of  Indian- 
corn  meal,  or  half  the  quantity  of  arrow-root,  half  a  pound 
of  cinnamon,  six  cloves,  a  cbrachm  of  capsicum,  a  little 
rotio«-nut  to  improve  the  colour,  and  seven  pods  of  vanilla." 
The  Spaniards  sometimes  perfume  this  composition  with 
ambergrie  or  musk.  This  receipt  may  be  modified  to  suit 
|giiglii|h  tastes,  and  this  is  as  much  a  preparation  for  con- 
valescents or  for  luncheon,  as  for  breakfast.  Make  the 
chocolate  as  above  with  sugar  and  milk. 

1143.  Water 8y  for  Cooling  Draughts^  of  present  or 
freeh  Fruite — Lemon-wcUer  and  Orange^ice  Water, 
—  Pour  boiling  water  on  the  preserved  or  on  sliced 
fresh  fruit,  or  squeeze  out  the  juice,  boil  it  up  in  a  little 
thin  syrup,  and  put  water  to  it  as  it  b  wanted.  Apple- 
water  is  made  as  above. — ^A  teapot  or  covered  jug  should 
be  used  when  those  drinks  are  made  by  infusion.  CvLcum- 
her  and  Melon  Waters.  —  The  water  in  which  cucumber 
is  cooked  may  have  any  odd  bits  and  parings  of  the 
cucumber  put  to  it,  and  be  boiled  up,  strained  and  sweetened 
for  a  cooling  draught — water  flavoured  with  melon  the 
same— all  these  may  be  iced  if  agreeable. 

1144.  To  stew  Prunes.  —  Put  them  in  a  nice  small 
saucepan  with  very  little  water,  and  stew  till  soft.,  but  not 
to  a  mash.  The  stones  may  be  broken,  and  the  kernels 
put  to  the  stew. 

1145.  Gruels  of  Fruit. — Boil  in  thin  gruel,  currants, 


Waters.  dd3 

black  or  red,  or  cranberries,  in  their  juice,  with  sugar  and 
nutmeg  to  taste,  or  use  the  jam  of  those  fruits. 

1146.  Oatmeal  Gruely  in  the  beat  Manner,  as  made  in 
Scotland.  —  Take  finely-ground  oatmeal,  of  the  best  qua- 
lity. Infuse  as  much  as  you  wish  in  cold  Water  for  an 
hour  or  two.  Stir  it  up,  let  it  settle,  and  pour  it  from  the 
grits,  (or  strain  it,)  and  boil  slowly  for  a  long  time,  stir- 
ring it  up.  Add  a  very  little  salt  and  sugar,  with  any 
addition  of  wine,  rum,  fruit,  jelly,  honey,  butter,  &c.  &c., 
that  you  choose.  This  gruel  will  be  quite  smooth ;  and 
when  cold  will  form  a  jelly.  With  a  toast,  it  makes  an 
excellent  luncheon  or  supper  for  an  invalid.  It  may  be 
thinned  at  pleasure,  with  warm  water. 

1147.  Sweet  Orange  or  Lemon  Juice, — ^When  you  make 
candied  chips,  preserve  the  strained  juice,  by  boiling  it 
with  an  equal  weight  of  fine  sugar.  It  is  a  great  addition 
to  gruel  or  barley-water,  and  will  be  very  useful  for 
gargles  in  fevers  and  cases  of  sore  throat,  &c. 

1148.  Toast  and  Water,  —  An  hour  or  more  before  it 
is  wanted,  toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread  on  both  sides 
very  carefully.  Pour  cold  water  over  the  bread,  and  cover 
the  }ag  I  —  or  use  boiled  water,  which  many  prefer,  allow- 
ing it  time  to  cool.     Lemon  juice  is  a  grateful  addition. 

1149.  Arti^cial  Ass's  Milk,  —  Take  eringo-root,  sea- 
holly,  and  pearl-barley,  each  half  an  ounce  ;  liquorice-root 
three  ounces ;  water  one  quart ;  boil  the  mixture  over  a 
slow  fire,  till  the  full  half  is  evaporated.  Strain,  and, 
when  cool,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  fresh  cow's  milk. 

Another. — Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  barley- 
water.  Sweeten,  and  pour  to  this  a  pint  of  new  milk. 
Whip  up. 

1160.  Fumigating  Mixture  for  Sick  Chambers, — Two 
ounces  of  salt  dried,  two  ditto  of  nitre.  Mix  and  put  to 
them,  in  a  stoneware  basin  or  plate,  a  half-ounce  of  water, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  good  sulphuric  acid.  Remove 
all  polished  metal  articles  from  the  room,  as  the  vapour 
would  rust  them,  and  close  all  doors  and  windows.  To 
procure  more  advantage,  when  the  process  appears  to 
cease,  place  the  basin  on  hot  sand. 

1161.  As  Fomentations  and  Poultices  are  usually  pre- 

2p 


604  CHAP.  II. — ^MISCBLLAKEOUS  RECEIPTS,  ScC, 

pared  in  the  kitchen,  the  cook  oaght  to  know^  how  the 
various  kinds  are  best  managed. 

Poultices  in  the  country,  where  milk  is  cheap,  are  gene- 
rally made  of  bread  and  milk,  but  bread  and  water 
answers  quite  as  well,  may  be  oftener  changed,  and  is 
more  quickly  prepared. 

Bread  and  Water  Pou/hce.— Crumble  down  the  soft 
part  of  a  slice  of  bread  into  a  jug ;  pour  boiling  water 
over  it ;  let  it  soak ;  break  it  witii  a  spoon,  and  if  too 
thin  pour  off  a  little  of  the  moisture,  and  spread  it  on  a 
cloth  to  apply  as  usual.  Bread  and  milk  the  same,  but 
may  be  boiled  a  minute.  A  little  fresh  butter  or  lard  is 
often  laid  over  this  and  Oat-meal  PcuUiee.  .This  last  is 
made  exactly  like  porridge,  but  must  hare  no  salt,  and  be 
long  boiled. 

ArrwO'Boot  Poultice  is  made  by  simply  breaking  the 
powder  with  a  spoonful  of  cold  water,  and  then  adding 
boiling  water,  as  in  preparing  arrow-root  for  an  infant. 
This  poultice  is  fancied  peculiarly  soothing. 

Linteed  Meal  Poultice. — Make  as  arrow-root.  An 
excellent  poultice  is  made  of  equal  quantities  of  linseed 
meal  and  bread  crumbs. 

Carrot  Poultice, — ^Boil  carrots  till  they  are  a  soft  pulp. 
Onion  Poultice  the  stune.  When  more  complicated 
poultices  are  required,  the  surgeon  usually  gives  directions 
as  to  what  quantity  of  the  extract  of  Hemlock,  Foxiglove, 
or  whatever  else  is  ordered,  should  be  added  to  a  linseed 
meal  poultice. 

1152.  Fomentatione.  —  These  are  generally  made  of 
the  leaves  or  flowers  of  plants,  as  chamomile-flowers,  mal- 
lows, elder-flowers,  poppy-heads,  wormwood,  &c.  They 
are  best  made  by  maceration  in  boiling  water  kept  hot 
near  the  Are ;  but  the  vegetables  may  also  be  boiled. 
Fomentations  are  generally  applied  by  dipping  flannel 
(about  a  square  of  flannel)  into  the  boiling  decoction,  and 
wringing  it  quickly  out.  The  hot  vegetables  are  also  ap- 
plied in  substance  in  the  folds  of  a  cloth ;  but  this  is  more 
of  the  nature  of  a  poultice  than  a  fomentation. 

1 1 53.  The  proper  Medium  of  Temperature  of  Baths ^  S^e. — 
The  tepid  from  86°  to  97°,  the  Hot  Bath  from  97**  to  108°, 
the  Vapour  Bath  from  100°  to  180°,  Sick  Rooms  60°. 


PREPARATIONS  FOR  THE  TOILET,  '  595 

1153.'  Freezing  Mixturet  where  Ice  cannot  he  goU — 
^ake  of  8al*ammoniac  five  parts,  of  nitre  five,  and  water 
sixteen.  Amaher:  Sal-ammoniac  five  parts,  nitre  five, 
glauber  salts  eight,  water  sixteen.  Place  the  vessel  contain- 
ing the  water,  hottle  of  wine,  or  cream,  butter,  &c.  to  be 
cooled,  in  another  containing  the  freezing  mixture,  and  which 
should  be  covered  with  thick  flannel  or  straw  matting. 

1154.  SubgtUniefor  a  WiUer-fiUer, — Lay  a  thick  bed  of 
pounded  charcoal  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  common  earthen 
flower-pot,  over  this  lay  a  bed  of  fine  sand  about  four 
inches  thick.  Make  all  compact,  and  suspend  the  pot 
over  any  receiving  vessel.  A  bit  of  quicklime  thrown 
into  a  water-puncheon  will  be  useful  in  purifying  water* 
Agitating  the  water  and  exposing  it  to  the  air,  will  both 
soften  it  and  help  to  keep  it  fresh.  Water,  if  muddy,  may 
be  strained  through  a  common  sieve,  in  whieh  a  cloth  and 
sponge,  or  layer  of  fine  sand  or  charcoal,  is  placed. 


PREPARATIONS  FOR  THE  TOILET,  &C. 

1155.  Pat  Pourri, — Put  into  a  large  china  jar,  used  for 
thb  purpose,  damask  and  other  single  roses,  buds,  and 
blown  flowers,  as  many  as  you  can  collect ;  add  to  every 
peck  of  these  a  large  handful  of  jasmine- blossoms,  one  of 
dame  violets,  one  of  orange-flowers ;  orris-root  sliced,  an 
ounce ;  benjamin  and  storax,  each  an  ounce,  (many  dis- 
like these ;)  two  or  three  handfuls  of  clove-gillyflowers, 
red  pinks  and  lavender  flowers,  cloves,  nutmegs,  rosemary- 
flowers,  allspice,  knotted  marjoram,  lemon-thyme,  rind  of 
lemon,  balm  of  Gilead  dry,  and  a  few  laurel-leaves.  Chop 
all  these,  and  mix  them  well  with  bay-salt.  Cover  the 
jar;  stir  occasionally.  The  various  ingredients  may  be 
collected  in  succession  as  they  flower.  To  these  are 
added  woodroof,  jonquil-flowers,  citron,  and  many  other 
things. 

1156.  Eau  de  Cologne, — Take  the  essence  of  Bergamot, 
lemon-peel,  lavender,  and  orange-flowers,  of  each  an  ounce, 
essence  of  cinnamon  half  an  ounce,  spirit  of  rosemary,  and 
of  the  spiritous  water  of  Melisse  of  each  fifteen  ounces, 
strong  idcohol  seven  pints  and  a  half.  Mix  the  whole 
together,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  for  the  space  of  a  fort- 


696         CHAP.  ix« — ^MiflCBLLJLinsous  uscarrs,  &c, 

night ;  after  which  intiodace  it  into  a  g\aas  letort^  the 
body  of  which  is  immersed  into  boiling  water,  contained 
in  a  ressel  placed  over  a  lamp,  while  the  beak  is  intro- 
duced into  a  laige  glass  retort  well  luted.  By  keeping  the 
water  to  the  boiling  point,  the  mixture  in  the  retort  will 
distil  over  into  the  receiver,  which  should  be  covered  over 
with  wet  cloths.  In  this  manner  will  be  obtained  pure 
Eau  de  Cologne,  at  one-fourth  the  selling  price. 
'  N.  B. — The  above  receipt  is  given  on  the  authority  of  ^ 
Dr.  Granville,  who  lately,  at  Cologne,  took  some  pains  to 
learn  the  component  parts  of  this  favourite  accompaniment 
of  an  elegant  toilet.  Only  38,000  bottles  of  the  water  are 
made  at  Cologne  in  the  year ;  so  that  probably  two-thirds 
of  the  commodity  sold  as  such,  is  made  by  a  process  far 
inferior  to  the  above. 

Another  Eau  de  Cologne* — The  following  have  been  re- 
cently ascertained  to  be  the  precise  component  parts  of  this 
far-famed  liquid.  Take  of  spirits  of  wine  at  32°  1  pint, 
essence  of  lemons  123  grains,  bergamot  123,  cedar  62, 
lavender  31,  orange-flowers  10  drops,  tincture  of  amber  10, 
mint  31  grains,  benzoin  185,  essence  of  roses  2  drops. 
Mix  these  ingredients,  shake  them  frequently,  and  then 
strain  them  off.  Those  who  do  not  like  the  smell  may 
omit  the  essence  of  mint.  The  quality  is  greatly  improved 
by  age. 

1167.  A  cheap  Perfume, — Dip  fine  cotton  wool,  such 
as  jewellers  use,  in  olive- oil,  and  spread  it  in  thin  layers 
over  jasmine-flowers,  and  rose-leaves,  in  ajar  or  glass 
vessel.  In  a  week  squeeze  out  the  perfumed  oil  into  a  vial 
for  use,  and  keep  the  scented  wool  to  perfume  clothes- 
presses,  &c. — Ohs,  One  of  the  most  effectual  perfumes  is 
fresh-burnt  charcoal,  as  it  destroys  bad  odours,  while 
more  elegant  preparations  only  conceal  the  smell. 

1168.  Thieves^  Vinegar, — Take  an  ounce  of  the  tops  of 
wormwo6d ;  rosemary,  sage,  mint,  and  rue,  of  each  half 
an  ounce  ;  flowers  of  lavender  two  ounces ;  aromatic  gum, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmegs,  and  fresh  garlic,  two  drachms 
of  each ;  half  an  ounce  of  camphor,  and  eight  pounds  of 
red  vinegar ;  beat  all  the  ingredients  well,  put  them  into 
a  proper  earthen  jar,  and  pour  the  vinegar  upon  them ; 


FBEPARA.TI0N8  FOB  THE  TOILET.  59? 

the  garlic  ought  to  be  sliced.  After  stopping  the  jar,  put 
it  in  the  sun  or  in  a  hot  place,  such  as  a  sand-bath,  for 
three  or  four  weeks ;  wring  out  the  ingredients,  and  filter 
through  filtering-paper ;  the  camphor  must  be  previously 
dissolved  in  a  little  spirits  of  wine.  This  vinegar,  like  all 
perfumed  liquids,  ought  to  be  kept  closely  corked. 

1159.  Rose  Vinegar  for  Salads,  or  for  the  Toilet. — ^Put 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rose-leaves  to  four  pints  of  good 
vinegar,  and  some  roots  of  the  Florence  lily.  Infuse  till 
a  fine  tincture  is  obtained,  and  strain  off  the  infusion. 
Or  use  cochineal  to  colour. 

Creme  de  Rose. — Put  four  pounds  or  more  of  moss  and 
damask  rosebuds  into  ten  English  pints  of  whisky.  Let 
this  infuse  for  six  weeks,  shaking  it  occasionally.  Drain 
out  the  rose-leaves ;  wash  them  in  six  English  pints  of 
water,  and  strain  this  water  to  the  spirits.  Pass  through 
the  still  once,  and,  if  not  strong  enough,  a  second  time. 
Clarify  six  pounds  of  sugar  with  two  quarts  of  water,  and 
boil  till  a  clear  thickish  syrup.  Let  it  cool,  previously 
passing  it  through  the  jelly-bag.  Mix,  when  cool,  with 
equal  quantities  of  the  distilled  spiritous  tincture  of  rose — 
and  bottle  if  clear, — ^if  not  quite  bright,  let  it  subside — 
pour  off,  and  pass  again  through  the  jelly-bag  or  filter. 

1160.  Lavender  Vinegar — French. — To  every  pint  of  the 
best  champagne  vinegar  put  half  an  ounce  of  fresh  laven- 
der-fiowers,  and  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon.  Infuse  for 
twenty-four  hours  in  a  stone  jar,  then  take  the  jar  and 
set  it  over  hot  embers  to  digest  for  ten  or  twelve  hours. 
Filter  and  bottle  it,  dipping  the  corks  in  wax. 

1161.  Honey-water  for  the  Hair, — Mix  three  drachms  of 
tincture  of  ambergris,  and  one  of  tincture  of  musk,  with 
a  little  spirit  of  wine.  Afterwards  add  a  pint  of  spirit  of 
wine,  or  strong  spirits,  and  shake  all  well  and  often. 

1162.  Cold  Cream  for  the  Skin, — Take  two  ounces  of  oil 
of  sweet  almonds,  a  drachm  of  white  wax,  and  one  of 
spermaceti.  Melt  them  in  an  earthen  pipkin,  and  stir  in 
a  mortar  till  quite  smooth  and  cold.  Add  orange-flower 
or  rose-water  till  the  mixture  is  as  thin  as  double  cream. 
Keep  in  a  gallipot  covered  with  leather. 

1163.  Lip-salve, — Put  four  ounces  of  the  best  olive-oil 


608  CHAP.  ir. — ^MiaCELLAKBOUS  RSCXIPTBy  &C. 

into  a  bottle,  with  a  half-ounce  of  picked  alkanet-  root  \ 
stop  the  bottle,  and  set  it  in  the  son  till  the  oil  is  colonied; 
strain  it  into  an  earthen  pipkin  in  which  an  ovnee  of 
white  wax  and  one  of  clarified  mntton-snet  are  placed; 
melt  this  by  the  fire,  and  perfume  with  a  drop  of  oil  of 
rhodium,  or  bergamot,  or  lavender ;  pour  it  off  the  sedi- 
ment into  very  small  gallipots. 

1164«  Paste  for  chopped  Hands."— "NLake  a  paste  of  fresh 
lard,  honey,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  little  of  the  fine  dust  of 
oatmeal  or  of  bean-flour :  it  may  be  perfumed  with  a  drop 
of  essence  of  lemon. 


CHEAP  DISfiBS  AND  COOKBBT  FOR  THE  POOS. 

We  are  eonvinced  that  the  art  of  preparing  cheap  dishes  is 
much  better  understood  by  the  intelligent  poor  than  by  those  who 
assume  the  task  of  instructing  them.  It  is  not,  therefore,  for  the 
direct  nse  of  the  poorer  classes,  bat  for  the  information  of  those 
who,  from  obaritable  motives,  are  anxious  to  devote  part  of  the 
abundance  with  which  Providence  has  blessed  them  to  their  hum- 
ble  brethren,  that  this  section  is  added  to  the  Cook's  Manual. 

There  is  not  a  family  of  any  consideration  but  might  distribute 
at  least  three  or  four  gallons  of  soup  a- week  to  their  poor 
neighbours,  with  almost  no  additional  expense,  and  only  a  little 
personal  trouble  to  the  cook  or  kitchen-maid.    There  is  much 
waste  in  all  families,  which,  by  a  slight  degree  of  attention,  might 
be  avoided,  and  turned  to  good  account,  not  only  in  supplying  the 
wants  of  the  poor,  but  in  improving  the  domestic  habits  of  young 
female  servants,  and  qualifying  them  to  be  managers  wben  they 
shall  come  to  be  poor  men^s  wives.    Without  wishing  to  encon- 
rage  habits  of  dependence,  much  less  pauperism,  benevolent  per- 
sons will  find  in  all  neighbourhoods  old  men  and  women,  and 
orphan  children,  to  whom  the  certainty  that  on  even  one  day  oi 
the  week  they  may  look  forward  to  a  warm  and  comfortable  meal, 
will  be  no  small  blessing.    Those  benevolent  individuals  who  ac- 
tively interest  themselves  in  bettering  the  condition  of  tho  poor, 
seldom  fiul  to  ei^oin  them  to  go  to  church.    Were  this  ii^nnotion 
coupled  with  a  comfortable  Sunday's  dinner  of  warm  stewwsoup, 
to  such  as  need  this  kindness,  when  church  is  over,  the  advice 
would  not  prove  the  less  efficacious.    For  an  expense  of  two  shil- 
lings per  week,  any  benevolent  individual  may  dine  ten  old  women 
or  men  every  Sunday  of  the  year,  even  allowing  that  none  of  the 
waste  of  his  kitchen  were  applied  to  this  purpose,  but  thai  every 
article  were  purchased. 

In  speaking  of  dishes  for  the  poor,  it  is  at  once  proper  to  say, 
that  we  have  no  idea  of  human  life  in  grown  persons  being  sus- 
tained in  comfort  and  physical  energy  without  a  due  proportion 


COOKERY  FOB  THE  POOR.  599 

of  animal  food  ;  nor  do  we  coneeire  that,  with  any  better  diet 
than  the  miserable  unohanging  meal  of  the  Irish  and  Highland 
peasantry,  or  the  rice  of  the  feebler  tribes  of  India,  there  is  any 
hearty  food  more  really  economical  than  cheap  stewosonps  of 
meat  or  fish,  with  a  proper  mixture  of  Yegetables,  roots,  and  fari- 
naceous seeds.  But  this  mode  of  cookery  is  not  only  the  cheap- 
est, it  is  also  the  most  savoury  in  which  plain  food  can  be  prepared. 
The  worst  feature  in  the  domestic  management  of  the  poor  —  we 
speak  not  of  drinking — is  the  universal  and  excessive  use  of  tea ; 
and  this  they  must  either  swallow,  a  coarse,  half-sweetened  per- 
nicious decoction,  without  the  milk,  butter,  meat,  which  can  alone 
render  it  a  nourishing  meal,  or  spend  on  it  a  slnure  of  their  earn- 
ings, which  must  be  subtracted  from  better  purposes.  The  Ua^ 
pot  drains  ike  soup-pot ;  the  price  of  the  materials  of  an  unsatis- 
fying breakfast  would  nearly  purchase  enough  of  meat,  vegetables, 
and  barley,  or  pulse,  to  miUce  a  hearty  and  comfortable  family- 
dinner.  Were  soup  or  gruel  substituted  for  tea,  and  for  those 
slops  called  British  coffee,  as  is  the  practice  with  decent  families 
on  the  Continent,  and  which  till  of  late  years  was  the  custom  of 
the  Highlands  of  Scotland  and  Ireland,  the  change  would  be  still 
better  ;  as  the  meat,  either  cold  or  re-warmed  in  a  little  of  the 
soup,  would  afterwards  furnish  dinner.  The  objection  made  to 
the  old  hearty  breakfast  of  the  Lowlands  of  Scotland,  oatmeal 
porridge,  to  the  hurgou  of  the  navy,  the  stir-about  of  Ireland,  and 
hasty-pudding  of  the  North  of  England,  as  heavy  fare  for  females 
and  sedentary  mechanics,  if  it  be  just  at  all,  could  not  be  brought 
against  a  light  soup  merely  thickened  with  oatmeal,  and  eaten 
with  bread.  The  increase  of  soup-shops,  and  even  of  places  for 
the  early  sale  of  coffee  and  saloop,  will  be  found  one  of  the  most 
effectual  means  for  the  suppression  of  dram-shops  ;  for  there  can 
be  no  doubt  that  there  are  in  large  towns  thousands  on  thousands 
of  poor  persons,  market-women,  barrow-women,  and  dealers  in  all 
sorts  of  small  wares,  who,  were  a  pint  of  hot  coffee  or  of  warm 
soup  and  a  penny-loaf  as  easily  come  by  at  the  comer  of  every 
street,  as  a  glass  of  gin,  would,  at  least  in  the  beginning  of  their 
career,  prefer  the  former. 

It  is  not  easy  to  hear  the  stem  denunciations  of  gin,  and  of  the 
profligacy  of  the  lower  classes,  proceeding  from  one  of  those  well- 
fed,  well-clad  moralists,  who  never  indulge  in  any  thing  save  sound 
old  porty  or  the  best  of  malt  liquor,  without  calling  to  mind  one 
of  ^e  pictures  of  him  whose  sagacity  in  detecting  the  manifold 
weaknesses  of  the  human  heart,  and  penetrating  to  its  most  hid- 
den springs,  was  only  excelled  by  his  indulgence  in  judging  of  its 
wanderings  and  weaknesses.  The  Antiquary  is  expressing  his 
hope  to  the  fish- woman,  that  the  distilleries,  then  stopt,  may  never 
work  again.  '^  Ay,  ay,''  said  Maggie,  ^  it's  easy  for  your  honour, 
and  the  like  o'  yon  gentle  folks,  to  say  sae,  that  ha'e  stonth  and 
routh,  and  fire  and  fending,  and  meat  and  claith,  and  sit  dry  and 
^anny  by  the  fireside  ;  but  an  ye  wanted  fire,  and  rneat^  and  dry 


(K)0  CHAF»  II. — MI8CELLAKBOU8  RBCBIPTS^  &C. 

€laiM,  and  were  deeing  o*  eauld,  and  had  a  sair  heart,  whilk  Is 
want  ava,  wi'  jast  tippence  in  yoar  pouch,  wadna  ye  be  glad  to 
buy  a  dram  wi't,  to  be  eliding,  and  claise,  and  a  sapper^  and 
heart'8-ea«e  into  the  bargain,  till  the  mom's  morning  ?" 
**  lt*fi  eren  too  true  an  apology,  Maggie,*'  said  Moiikba.m8. 


Besides  the  receipts  for  Cheap  Dishes  subjoined,  there  are 
many  scattered  through  this  work,  as  stew-soup  of  hut  lock's  heart ; 
9lietp*t  head  broth  in  a  plain  way  ;  riee  and  milk  with  suet ;  plain 
Scotch /sh  and  sauce:  Scotch  haggis;  pan-kail;  pease-soup  or 
potcUo-fovp  in  which  dripping  is  substituted  for  butter  ;  ox-iaU 
and  ox-hfad  soup  and  ragout;  baked  herrings;  kidney-coll  ops ; 
«Ai<tf,  bloody  and  liter  puddings ;  muscli  or  other  cheap  shell-fish 
soups ;  calecannon  enriched  with  dripping,  or  the  same  thing, 
Scotch  Rumble- de-thumps  ;  Scotch  kaU-brose,  and  many  other 
things. 

In  treating  of  cookery  for  the  poor,  however  briefly,  it  would 
be  wrong  to  pass  over  the  potato-flour,  of  which  so  much  has 
lately  been  said  and  written.  Of  its  uses  and  excellence  in  its 
own  place,  we  have  no  doubts  whatever,  though  we  cannot  jast 
yet  believe  that  in  potato-flour  a  universal  panacea  is  discovered 
for  human  misery.  But  it  is  now  prepared  for  sale  in  consider^ 
able  quantities,  and  if  it  be  as  really  cheap,  nutritious,  and  agree- 
able, as  is  alleged,  there  is  no  doubt  of  its  success.  People  are  in 
general  quite  aFive  to  their  true  interests,  whether  of  purse  or 
palate.  To  the  mode  of  cooking  potato- flour,  as  promulgated  by 
its  most  zealous  patrons  and  proneurs,  we  however  decidedly  ob- 
ject. Their  pudding  is  in  fact  raw  potato-glue,  if  boiling  water 
is  merely  poured  over  the  flour.  This  might  do  for  genuine  arrow- 
root, or  for  oatmeal,  or  Glasgow  brosemeal,  but  not  for  crude 
potato-mucilage.  We  give  the  subjoined /onnu^a  as  an  improve- 
ment : — Mix  the  flour  as  in  making  starch ;  pour  boiling  water 
over  it,  and  boil  it  for  at  least  fVom  five  to  eight  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  If  boiled  in  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  with  a  little  sugar, 
it  will  make  a  very  agreeable  mess  either  for  breakfast  or  a  light 
supper  —  where  suppers  are  taken.  * 

CHEAP  DISHES. 

Some  of  the  subjoined  receipts  were  published  during  a  period 
of  scarcity.  They  are  equally  applicable  at  every  time,  as  the 
preparations,  besides  being  6ngal,  are  savoury  and  healthful. 
The  first  nine  are  attributed  to  a  lady  whose  pen  has  been  usually 
devoted  to  sacred  subjects,  but  who  has  not  disdained  to  employ 
her  talents  in  improving  the  manners  and  increasing  the  domestic 


*  N.  B.  These  observations  were  made  in  our  earlier  editions,  -when 
the  public  were  bored  with  potato*flour«  The  failure  of  the  root  hai 
jput  a  stop  to  this. 


=aa!__-.._j^ — . 


COOKERY  FOB  THE  POOR.  601 

Comforts  of  the  humblest  of  her  brethren  —  Mrs  Hannah  More. 
The  rest  are'original. 

1165.  Cheap  Rice  MUk,  —  A  quart  of  skim  milk,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  rice,  with  sugar,  and  a  little  Jamaica  pepper,  will 
make  a  cheap  and  a  dainty  dish.    Swell  the  rice  first  with  water. 

1 166.  Rice  Pudding.  —  Two  quarts  of  skim  milk,  a  half-pound 
of  rice,  and  two  ounces  of  brown  sugar. 

N.  B. — A  little  shred  suet,  salt,  and  a  very  little  ginger,  will 
make  this  excellent.  —  Ed. 

1167.  Mrs,  White's  cheap  Stew.  —  **  1  remember,"  said  Mrs. 
White,  '^  a  cheap  dish,  so  nice  that  it  makes  my  mouth  water.  I 
peel  some  raw  potatoes,  slice  them  thin,  put  the  slices  into  a  deep 
frying  pan  or  pot,  with  a  little  water,  an  onion,  and  a  bit  of  pep- 
per. Then  1  get  a  bone  or  two  of  a  breast  of  mutton,  or  a  little 
strip  of  salt  pork,  and  put  it  into  it.  Cover  it  down  close,  keep 
in  the  steam,  and  let  it  stew  for  an  hour." 

1 1 68.  Herring  and  Potatoes.  —  Take  two  or  three  pickled  her- 
rings, wash  and  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  fill  it  up  with  peeled 
potatoes  and  a  little  water,  and  let  it  bake  in  the  oven  till  it  is 
done.  [This  dish  is  made  in  Scotland  in  a  close-covered  pot  by 
boiling.    Place  the  herrings  uppermost. —  Ed.'\ 

1169.  Stew-soup.  —  Two  pounds  of  beef,  four  onions,  ten  tur- 
nips, half  a  pound  of  rice,  a  large  handful  of  parsley,  thyme,  and 
savory  ;  some  pepper  and  salt  ;  eight  quarts  of  water.  Cut  the 
beef  in  slices,  and  after  it  has  boiled  some  time,  cut  it  still  smaller. 
The  whole  should  boil  gently  about  two  hours  on  a  slow  fire.  If 
fuel  be  scarce,  it  may  be  stewed  all  night  in  an  oven,  and  warmed 
up  next  day.  You  may  add  oatmeal  or  potatoes.  Grey  peas 
will  be  a  great  addition. 

1170.  Another. — Take  half  a  pound  of  beef,  mutton,  or  pork, 
cut  it  into  small  pieces;  half  a  pint  of  peas,  four  sliced  turnips, 
six  potatoes  cut  very  small,  two  onions  or  leeks  ;  put  to  them 
seven  pints  of  water.  Let  the  whole  boil  gently  over  a  very  slow 
fire  two  hours  and  a  half.  Then  thicken  it  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  oatmeal.  After  the  thickening  is  put  in,  boil  it  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  stirring  it  all  the  time  ;  then  season  it  with  salt 
and  pepper.     [Too  much  oatmeal. — Ed."} 

1171.  Stew-soup  of  Salt  Meat. — Take  two  pounds  of  salt  beef 
or  pork,  cut  it  into  very  small  bits,  a.nd  put  it  into  a  pot  with  six 
quarts  of  water,  letting  it  boil  on  a  slow  fire  for  three  quarters  of 
an  hour;  then  put  a  few  carrots,  parsnips,  or  turnips,  all  cut 

*  small;  or  a  few  potatoes  sliced  ;,a  cabbage,  and  a  couple  of  car- 
rots. Thicken  the  whole  with  oatmeal.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. — See  Bullock* s-heart  Stew,  No.  405. 

1172.  Cheap  Soups. — The  following  soup  Mrs.  Sparks  sold 
every  Saturday  in  small  quantities.  A  pint  of  the  soup,  with  a 
bit  of  the  meat  warmed  up  on  a  Sunday,  made  a  dinner  for  a 
grown  person : — 

An  ox-oheeky  two  pecks  of  potatoes,  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of 


602  CHAP.  n. — ^MISCBLLANBOVS  BBCBIPTS,  &C. 

onions,  one  onnoe  of  pepper,  balf  a  poond  of  salt,  boiled  all 
together  in  ninety  pints  of  water  till  reduced  to  sixty;  any  gar* 
den-stnifmay  be  thrown  in. 

Friendly  Hints,  by  the  same  writer. — The  difference  6et»e«i 
eating  bread  new  and  akde  i»  one  loaf  in  five. 

If  you  turn  your  tneat  into  broth,  k  will  go  muek  farther  than 
if  you  rooit  or  bake  U, 

if  you  have  a  garden,  make  the  most  o/it.  A  hit  of  leek,  or  a% 
onion,  makes  all  dishes  savoury  at  small  expense. 

If  the  money  spent  on  fretk  butter  were  spent  on  ntecU,  poor 
families  would  be  muoh  better  fed  than  they  are. 

If  the  money  spent  on  tea  were  spent  on  home-brewed  beer,  the 
wife  would  be  better  fed,  the  husband  better  pleased,  and  both  would 
be  heal^ier. 

Keep  a  little  Sooteh  barley,  riee,  dry  peas,  and  oatmecil  in  ike 
house.  They  are  all  cheap,  and  do  not  spoil.  Keep  dUo  pepper 
and  ginger. 

1173.  Jfrt.   Whitens  Breakfasts.— ^iiBighhoviTfi;*    said    Mn. 
White,  **  a  half^nny- worth  of  oatmeal,  or  groats,  with  a  leek  or 
onion  out  of  yoar  own  garden,  which  costs  nothing,  a  bit  of  salt, 
and  a  little  coarse  bre^i,  will  breakfast  your  whole  family.    It 
is  a  great  mistake  at  any  time  to  think  a  bit  of  meat  is  so 
ruinous,  and  a  great  load  of  bread  so  cheap.    A  poor  man  gets 
sevfn  or  eight  shillings  a-week ;  if  he  is  careful,  he  brings  it 
home.    I  dare  not  say  how  much  of  this  goes  for  tea  in  the  after- 
noon, now  sugar  and  hotter  are  so  dear,  because  I  should  have 
yon  all  upon  me ;  but  I  will  say,  that  too  much  of  this  little  goes 
even  for  bread,  from  a  mistaken  notion  that  it  is  the  hardest  fare. 
This,  at  all  times,  but  particularly  if  bread  is  dear,  is   bad 
management.    Dry  peas,  to  be  sure,  have  been  very  dear  lately; 
but  now  they  are  plenty  enough.    I  am  certain,  then,  that  if  a 
shilling  or  two  of  the  seren  or  eight  was  laid  out  for  a  bit  of 
coarse  beef,  a  sheep's  head,  or  any  such  thing,  it  would  be  well 
bestowed.    I  would  throw  a  couple  of  pounds  of  this  into  the  pot, 
with  two  or  three  handftils  of  gray  peas,  an  onion,  and  a  little 
pepper.    Then  I  would  throw  in  cabbage  or  turnip,  and  carrot, 
or  any  garden-stuff  that  was  most  plenty;  let  it  stew  two  or  three 
hours,  and  it  will  make  a  dish  fit  for  his  Majesty.    The  working 
men  should  haye  the  meat ;  the  ehildren  do  not  want  it ;  the  soup 
will  be  thick  and  substantial,  and  requires  no  bread."    [Idis. 
Hannah  More  does  not  say  that ''  a  poor  man"  in  6e?en  or  eight 
shillings  gets  by  a  great  deal  too  little  ;  but  her  receipt  for  a  soup 
breakfast  may  be  useftil  to  those  who  get  twice  the  sum  of  weekly 
wages.] 

1174.  Another  Cheap  Soup. — Two  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  or 
ox-cheek,  a  quarter-pound  of  barley,  a  halfpenny  worth  of  pardey 
and  onions,  with  salt,  will  make  four  quarts  of  good  soup.  A  few 
potatoes,  or  any  cheap  vegetable,  may  be  added. 

1175.  Bean-pudding, — Boil,  skin,  and  pound  beans  with  pep- 


COOKERY  FOR  TfiK  POOR.  603 

peit  anji  salt,  and  a  piece  of  batter  or  dripping.    Tie  the  poonded 
mass  into  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil. 

1176.  Bean-pudding,  to  eat  toUh  Baeon  or  Pickled  Pork,  hot 
Pig*»  Cheek,  Sj-e, — Boil  and  skin  the  beans,  or  take  any  left« 
Pound  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and,  if  you  like,  a  piece  of 
butter,  melted  suet,  or  dripping.  Pat  them  in  a  battered  tin 
basin.  Tie  a  pudding-cloth  round,  and  boil  in  water,  or  better 
with  the  pork,  for  from  a  half-hour  to  three  quarters.  Undo  the 
cloth ;  let  the  pudding  cool  and  firm  for  a  minute  ;  then  place  the 
basin  inverted  on  a  dish,  and  turn  it  out. 

1177.  Cheap  Pease-pudding, — To  a  pound  of  peas  boiled  for 
pudding,  add  two  pounds  of  mashed  potatoes,  with  dripping  of 
any  kind. 

1177.^  Cheap  Plum-pudding,  without  eggs  or  milk, —  Eight 
ounces  beef-suet,  finely  minced;  ten  ounces  flour ;  eight  ounces 
currants  or  raisins ;  two  table-spoonfiils  of  sugar;  one  tea-spoonful 
of  salt ;  the  zest  of  two  carrots  grated,  and  one  glass  of  sweet 
wine.  Tie  up  tight  in  a  cloth,  boil  three  hours,  and  dish  it 
serred  up  with  a  sweet  sauce.  This  pudding  may  be  useful  at  sea. 

1178.  Cheap  Pastry  of  Potato,  in  which  cheap  Mince  or  Stew 
may  be  neatly  served, — Mash  the  potatoes  Fith  a  little  milk,  and 
a  bit  of  butter,  with  salt,  and  a  point  of  finely-shred  onion  if  you 
like.  Border  a  flat  dish  thickly  with  this,  and  mark  it,  and  place 
a  layer  of  the  mash  over  the  dish ;  brown  in  the  oven  or  before 
the  fire,  and  scoop  out  the  centre,  or  leave  it  as  crust,  and  serve 
in  it  hashed  beef-heart,  kidney-collop,  salt  or  other  fish  wanned 
up,  &c. 

1179.  MUk  Porridgc—Stii  oatmeal  into  boiling  skimmed 
milk  as  in  making  stir-about.    Eat  with  milk* 

1 180.  Ox-liver,  sound  and  fresh,  sliced,  steeped  for  some  hours 
in  salt  water,  and  fried  with  fat  bacon,  parsley,  onions,  and  all- 
spice, makes  a  good  cheap  dish. 

1181.  Stew-soup  may  be  made  of  the  rich  liqnor  in  which  tripe 
is  boiled,  with  rice  or  potatoes,  parsley,  and  onions  ;  of  the  same 
liquor  a  fraudulent  jelly  is  often  made  for  the  great. 

The  culinary  utensils  of  the  poor  are  of  great  importance* 
Every  family  ought  to  have  a  cheap  and  small  steamer  of  a  sub- 
stantial kind,  fitted  to  the  metiU  pot,  which  serves  either  for 
boiling  or  baking.  In  baking  a  pudding  or  meat,  the  thick  metal 
lid  of  this  sort  of  pot  is  first  made  hot  and  laid  on  the  hearth,  and 
the  pot  is  turned  upside-down  over  it ;  turf  embers  are  placed  all 
around  or  over  this  little  oven,  in  which  meat  with  potato-pastry, 
fish-pie  with  potato,  rice-pudding,  or  any  dish  may  be  cooked, 
and  a  loaf  may  be  baked.  The  lid  may  be  laid  over  embers,  in 
the  grate,  and  the  pot  inverted  over  it  forms  an  oven. 

Still  this  is  not  cheap  cookery;  and  though  several  interesting 
experiments  have  been  made,  especially  in  cooking  by  gas,  we 
cannot  perceive  that,  since  the  era  of  Count  Rumford,  any  great 
advance  has  been  made  in  economizing  heat,  fuel,  and  labour  ; 


604  CHAP.  II. — MI6CELLANB0UB  RECEIPTB,  &C. 

though  ealinury  processes  are  certainly  rendered  more  easy.to  Ae 
servants  of  the  wealthy.  How  great  a  benefactor  of  his  species 
woald  that  man  be,  who  should  enable  the  poor  to  obtain*  at  a 
cheap  rate,  a  regulated  degree  of  warmth  in  their  apartments, 
and  to  combine  with  this  the  advantages  of  the  best  processes  of 
cookery. 

Economical  Maxims  of  ancient  Tusser,  the  first  J^n^ish  writer 
on  Ihmettie  Economy,  and  author  of  ''  The  JPoints  of  Good 
Huihandry  and  Housemfery,^' 

**  Save  wing  for  a  thresser  when  gander  doth  die  ; 
Save  feathers  of  all  things  the  softer  to  lie  : 
Much  spice  is  a  thief,  so  is  candle  and  fire  ; 
Sweet  sauce  is  as  crafty  as  ever  was  friar ; 
Save  droppings  and  skimmings  whatever  ye  do. 
For  medicine,  for  cattle,  for  cart,  and  for  shoe.'* 

From  the  maxims  of  this  worthy,  it  would  appear  that  the  jolly 
English  yeoman  of  the  sixteenth  century  fared  fully  as  well  as 
the  gentleman-farmer  of  the  nineteenth — so  far  as  substantial 
go — and  his  servants  a  great  deal  better.  For  the  yeoman  and 
his  household's  Lenten  diet,  Tu^ser  recommends  red  herrings  and 
salt  fish.  At  Easter,  veal  and  bacon  ;  and  at  Martinmas,  when 
dainties  were  no  longer  to  be  had,  contentment  with  salted  beef. 
At  midsummer,  when  mackerel  went  out,  there  was  fresh  beef 
and  salads;  at  Michaelmas,  fresh  herrings  and  old  crones, 
(sheep  ;)  at  All  Saints,  pork  and  peas,  sprats,  and  sparlings  ;  and 
at  Christmas,  in  Old  England  !  Merry  England  !  all  good  cheer 
and  play  ;  with  good  drink,  a  rousing  fire  in  the  hall,  brawn, 
puddings,  and  souse,  and  mustard  withal;  beef,  mutton,  porkjand 
minced  pies  of  the  best ;  pig,  veal,  capon,  goose, "  turkey,  and  the 
chine  ;'*  cheese,  apples,  nuts, — and,  to  crown  all,  **  jolly  carols." — 
Peace  be  with  thy  memory,  Thomas  Tusser  ! 

From  the  same  judicious  person  we  learn,  that  in  those  Catholic 
times  it  was  customary,  and  of  ancient  prescription,  that  twice 
a-week  the  farmer  should  give  his  servants  roast  meat,  namely, 
on  Thursday  and  Saturday  evening.  He,  at  the  same  time, 
restricts  the  yeoman  and  Franklin's  family-dinner  to  three  dishes, 
''which,  being  well  dressed,  will  be  sufiicient  to  plea-se  your 
tHend  and  grace  your  hall."  Servants  are  ordered  to  bed  at  ten 
in  summer  and  nine  in  winter,  and  to  rise  at  four  in  summer  and 
fiye  in  dark  mornings.  There  are  to  be  fritters  and  pancakes  for 
dinner  on  Shrove-Tuesday  ;  and  on  wake- day,  the  vigil  of  the 
saint  to  whom  the  parish  church  is  dedicated,  "  when  every  wan- 
ton may  dance  at  her  will,''  the  oven  is  to  be  filled  with  flaunes. 
The  seedcake  is  to  grace  the  end  of  seedtime,  and  the  harvest- 
home  goose  never  to  be  neglected — Why  did  not  Cobbett  give  ui 
a  new  Edition  of  ancient  Tusser  1 


605 


CHAPTER  III. 

OF  SALTING  MEAT,  TONGUES,  HAMS,  MAKING   CHEESE,  FATTEN- 
ING  POULTRY,  PBESERYING  BUTTER,  EGGS,  &C. 

Meat  should  either  be  salted  before  the  animal  heat  has 
left  it,  or  be  allowed  to  hang  for  a  few  days,  to  become 
tender.     It  should  be  wiped  free  of  moisture,  blood,  &c., 
and  have  the  kernels  and  pipes  taken  out ;  wash  if  neces- 
sary.   As  a  general  rule,  which  is  too  little  attended  to, 
meat  should  first  be  rubbed  with  about  the  half  of  the  salt 
ordered ;  and,  after  lying  a  day  or  two  to  disgorge,  have 
the  remaining  half  rubbed  in.     This  tmce  salting,  from 
getting  rid  of  blood  and  slime,  and  the  effectual  rubbing  and 
mixing  it  causes,  will  be  found  an  excellent  method,  and 
is  good  not  only  for  meat,  but  for  butter  and  fish.    Bay- 
salt  is  imagined  to  give  meat  a  better  flavour  than  any 
other  salt.     It  is    thought   sweeter    than    manufactured 
salt,  from  being  dried  by  the  gradual  action  of  the  sun. 
There  are  various  modes  of  puiifying  salt  for  preserving 
meat,  butter,  and  fish,  but  they  are  too  complicated  and 
troublesome  for  domestic  use.     The  Dutch,  the  first  dis- 
coverers of  preserving  fish  by  salting,  and  who  are  cele- 
brated for  the  mild  mellow  flavour   of  their  butter  and 
fish,  often  refine  the  salt  by  boiling  it  up  with  whey  ;  and 
this  method  is  quite  practicable  in  any  dai^y.     Heating 
and  pounding  the   salt  facilitates   the   salting  of  meat. 
Sugar  is  an  admirable  ingredient  in  curing  meat  and  fish. 
Without  making  them  salt,  it  preserves  and  keeps  them 
mellow.     Some  recommend  that  the  meat  should  be  first 
rubbed  with  sugar  for  some  days,  and  then  salted.     Mo- 
lasses is  also  used.     Saltpetre  dries  up  meat  so  much,  that 
it  is  daily  less  and  less  employed.     Much  less  of  it  w^ill 
colour  meat,  or  sausage  meat,  than  is  imagined  :  or  san- 
derswood  will  give  the  red  colour.     Crude  sal  ammoniac 
is  an  article  of  which  a  little  goes  far  in  preserving  meat, 
without  making  it  salt.     All  troughs  and  tubs  in  which 
meat  is  cured  ought  to  be  kept  closely  covered  with  lids, 


600        CHAP.  III.-— CURtNO  MEAT,  HAMS,  &C, 

with  several  folds  of  blanket,  or  something  of  the  kind. 
Meaty  till  it  be  taken  out  to  hang  up,  should    be  kept 
covered  with  fresh  pickle,  not  bkter  brine,  and  mbhed, 
basted,   and    turned  in    the   troughs  once    a-day ; — the 
double  parts  ought  to  be  looked  at,  and  rubbed  ;   and  if 
anj  mouldiness  gather  on  the  meat  in  any  stage  of  curing, 
it  must  be  carefully  taken  off.     If  the  brine  become  rank 
with  blood  and  slime,  it  must  be  boiled  up,  skimmed,  and, 
when  cold,  poured  over  the  hams ;  or,  now  that  salt  is  so 
cheap,  a  fresh  pickle  should  be  made.     Bruised  juniper- 
berries,  coriander-seeds,  sweet  herbs  pounded  or  not,  and 
all  sorts  of  peppers  and  aromatic  spices,  may  be  used  for 
pickling  hams,  tongues,  runups,  and  sausage  meat;  also 
garlic ;  but  this  must  all  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  the 
cook. 

1182.  To  Cure  Hams, — ^Choose  the  short  thick  l^s  of 
clean>fed  hogs.    Those  which  are  just  old  enough  to  have 
the  flesh  of  firm  texture,  and  which  have  roamed  at  large 
in  a  forest,  or  been  fattened  about  a  dairy-farm,  are  far 
the  best.     To  each  large  ham  allow  half-a-pound  of  bay- 
salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  eight  ounces  of  coarse  sugar, 
and  a  half-pound  of  common  salt,  with  four  ounces  of 
Jamaica  and  black  pepper,  and  one  of   coriander-seeds. 
Pound  the  ingredients,  and  heat  and  mix  them  weU  ;  but 
first  rub  in  about  six  ounces  of  the  salt  and  the  saltpetre, 
and,  after  two  days,  drain,  and  rub  in  the  rest  of  the  salt 
and  the  spices.     Bub  for  a  long  half- hour ;  lay  the  hams 
in  the  trough;  keep  them  carefully  covered,  and  baste 
them  with  the  brine  every  day,  or  oftener;   turn  them 
occasionally,  and  rub  with  the  brine.     Make  more  brine 
if  necessary.    Bacon  and  Pig* 8  F<ice  are  treated  as  above. 
—(See  pp.  317,  dd8.)     The  latter  is  the  better  of  being 
pressed  down  with  a  weight.    Some  persons  use  weights 
for  all  cured  meat,  to  keep  it  below  the  brine.    Hams  are 
spiced  by  using  aromatic  spices  and  sweet  herbs  in  curing. 
Smoking  with  green  birch,  oak,  or  the  odoriferous  woods, 
as  juniper,  &c.,  is  an  immense  improvement  to  all  dried 
salt  meats. 

1183.  To  Cure  Hams, — M.  Ude^s  Receipt, — As  soon 
as  the  pig  is  cold  enough  to  cut  up,  cut  out  the  round  bon9 


Cl^RINO  HAMS,  607 

from  the  hams.  Rub  well  with  common  salt,  and  drain 
for  three  days;  then  dry  the  hams;  and  for  two  of 
eighteen  pounds  each,  take  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  a 
pound  of  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  saltpetre.  Mix  and  rub 
the  hams  well  with  it ;  put  them  in  a  trough,  and  treat 
as  other  hams :  but,  in  Uiree  days,  pour  a  bottle  of  good 
vinegar  over  them.  They  will  be  ready  in  a  month, 
w^hen  dry  as  usual.  *'  This,"  says  the  venerable  chef  of 
Crockford's,  ^  is  Superior  to  a  Westphalia  ham."  We  are 
sure,  that  if  smoked,  it  is  as  well  cured. 

A  Grerman  Receipt  far  Hanu, — The  hams  are  cured,  as 
with  us,  at  a  temperate  season ;  from  the  middle  of  Oc- 
tober to  the  first  of  April.  Place  them  in  proper  deep 
troughs ;  cover  over  with  layers  of  salt,  and  a  few  laurel- 
leaves.  In  ^ye  days  drain  and  place  them  in  a  clean  tub. 
Cover  with  a  strong  brine.  Let  them  lie  thus  for  three 
weeks ;  then  soak  in  spring-water  for  twelve  hours.  Ex- 
pose them  to  the  smoke  of  juniper  for  three  weeks. 

1184.  Beauvillier^  Hams, — Make  a  pickle  with  water 
and  wine-lees  to  suit  the  size  or  number  of  hams  and 
flitches,  and  add  all  sorts  of  sweet  herbs ;  as  sage,  basil, 
thyme,  bay,  juniper^berries,  salt,  and  saltpetre.  Steep 
this  for  some  days,  and  strain,  and  put  in  the  meat.  Let 
the  hams  lie  a  month ;  drain,  wipe,  and  smoke  them. 
When  smoked  and  dry,  rub  with  wine  and  vinegar  to 
keep  off  flies.  Tongues  of  hogs  may  be  cured  in  the  same 
pickle,  and  dried,  and  smoked  in  thin  cloth.  They  are 
cooked  in  small  wine  and  water,  with  herbs,  and  served 
cold.  [If  the  hams  were  first  rubbed  with  salt,  and 
drained  for  a  day  or  two,  the  receipt  would  be  excellent. 

1185.  Oenerttl  easy  Receipt  for  curing  hams  or  bacon  of 
fourteen  pounds  weight,  or  in  the  proportion : — One  ounce 
of  saltpetre,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  five 
ounces  of  salt,  five  of  bay-salt,  one  of  ground  black  pepper, 
one  of  Jamaica  pepper.  Mix  the  articles^  and  rub  the 
hams  well.  Turn  and  rub  every  day  for  a  month.  Hang 
the  hams  in  a  canvass  bag  in  a  dry  place ;  smoke  them  if 
convenient.    They  will  keep  for  years. 

1186.  MiOUm  Hams.—Froeeed  as  at  No.  1182,  using 


608  CHAP.  III. — cuanra  msat,  tuus^  Sec, 

for  one  ham  a  fourth  of  the  salt,  hut  a  half  of  the  ^ices 
and  sugar.     Kuh  the  ham  very  well  with  the  hot  pounded 
salt.— O&f .  Ram-mutton,  though  disliked  at  table,  is,  when 
good,  thought  to  make  the  best-flavoured  hams.      In  the 
Highlands,  dried  juniper-berries  are  used  in  ctiring>  mutton- 
liams.     No  sort  of  meat  is  more  improved  by  smoking 
with  aromatic  woods,  or  even  pecU-reet,  than    mutton. 
Mutton-hams,  when  they  are  once  dried,  will  keep  long 
enough,  but  scarcely  improve  after  six  months'  keeping. 
"■^N.B.  Roast  instead  of  boiling  mutton-ham,  if  not  kept 
more  than   six  months.    Soak  as  if  for   boiling.     The 
Scottish  Border   is   famous   for  the  excellence    of   the 
mutton-hams.      They  are   carefully  salted   with  salt,  a 
little  coarse  sugar,  and  very  little  saltpetre ;  kept  in  the 
pickle  for  three  weeks,  and  hung  for  months  in  shepherds' 
chimneys,  where  peats  are  the  only  fuel.     Without  pre- 
vious steeping,  they  are  boiled  quickly  for  an  hour,  or  a 
little  more,  if  large,  and  allowed  to  soak  in  the  liquor  for 
twenty-four  hours.  i 

1187*  Ton^ueSy  to  Salt. — Cut  off  the  roots,  and  steep  .the  | 
tongues  in  a  weak  brine ;  wash  them  well  out,  working 
them  with  the  hand  ;  afterwards  salt  them  with  common 
salt.  [The  roots  eat  very  well  with  greens,  or  will  make 
pease-soup,  stew,  or  Scotch  kail.]  Scrape  and  dry  the 
tongues ;  rub  them  with  a  little  common  salt  and  salt- 
petre ;  next  day  rub  them  very  well  with  salt  and  brown 
sugar.  Keep  them  covered  with  pickle  for  a  fortnight ; 
dry  and  smoke  them. — Obs.  When  many  tongues  are 
salted,  use  a  sinking-board  and  weights,  to  keep  them 
below  the  brine.     They  may  be  spiced  as  No.  1182. 

1188.  To  Salt  a  Round  or  Rump  of  Beef, — A  rump  of 
twenty-five  pounds  will  take  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  eight 
of  sugar,  four  of  pepper,  half-a-pound  of  bay-salt^  and 
twice  as  much  common  salt.  Rub  the  meat  very  well 
with  the  mixed  salts  and  spices ;  turn  it  on  all  sides,  and 
rub  it.  Baste  and  rub  with  the  brine  every  day  for  a 
month.  It  may  either  be  hung  and  dried,  or  boiled  out 
of  this  pickle.  —  See  pp.  307,  309,  and  316,  for  beef  cured 
in  various  ways  with  spices. 

1189.  To  Cure  Chese, — ^In  Languedoc,  and  other  parts 


TO  CtlSB  OBBSE.  609 

of  France,  where  land  is  of  small  value,  and  geese  are 
plentiful,  much  of  the  winter-food  of  genteel  provincial 
families  depends  on  these  birds.  As  the  information  may 
be  found  useful  in  Ireland,  and  remote  parts  both. of 
England  and  Scotland,  we  shall  detail  the  French  method 
of  proceeding : — When  the  geese  are  very  fat,  about  the 
end  of  autumn,  they  were  killed,  and  the  wings  and  legs 
cut  off,  leaving  as  little  flesh  on  the  body  as  possible. 
The  legs  are  partly  boned,  and,  for  every  five  geese,  a 
half-ounce  of  saltpetre  is  mixed  with  the  necessary  quan- 
tity of  common  salt,  with  which  the  legs  and  wings  are 
well  rubbed,  and  laid  for  twenty-four  hours  in  a  pan  with 
savoury  herbs.  Meanwhile,  all  the  fat  is  collected  from 
the  bodies  and  intestines,  and  boiled  down  as  lard  over  a 
very  slow  fire,  strained,  and  put  to  cool.  The  legs,  wings^ 
and  the  body  cut.  in  pieces,  are,  in  twenty-four  hours, 
taken  from  the  salt,  passed  through  fresh  water,  and 
stewed  over  a  very  slow  fire  till  the  flesh  will  pierce  Mrith 
a  straw.  They  are  then  taken  out,  and,  when  cold,  packed 
in  jars,  and  the  melted  fat  poured  over  them  ;  when  cold, 
parchment,  or  paper  and  bladder,  are  tied  over  the  jars. 
A  French  family  has,  from  this  stock  of  winter-provisions, 
the  power  of  having  a  ragont  of  a  leg  or  wing,  heated  in  a 
little  of  the  jelly  and  fat  in  which  the  meat  is  preserved ; 
or  a  8(yupe  of  a  neck,  back,  or  pinion,  with  the  mere  addi- 
tion of  herbs,  vegetables,  and  suitable  seasonings.  The 
relish  is  very  high ;  and  French  cooks  speak  with  rapture 
of  this  savoury  and  economical  mode  of  cooking  geese. 
Young  pigs  may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner,  but  their 
flavour  is  not  nearly  so  high.  If  the  fat  of  geese  be  thus 
esteemed  by  our  continental  neighbours,  there  is  certainly, 
in  this  department, -much  waste  in  English  kitchens. 

1189.'  Prepared  Salmon  or  Cod  Roes, — Take  the  roe  from 
a  fish  as  nearly  spawning  as  possible ;  wash  the  roe  well 
in  milk  and  water,  and  then  in  cold  water,  till  it  come 
clean  off;  afterwards,  put  the  roe  in  a  sieve,  and  drain 
fifteen  minutes.  To  salt  them,  take  eight  ounces  of  salt 
to  three  pounds  of  spawn,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  brine 
forty-eight  hours.  Lay  them  on  a  board  about  threes 
iburtha  of  a  yard  from  the  fire,  letting  them  remain  thery 

2o 


610  CHAP.  III.— CVBUVO  MBAT;  HAMSy  &c. 

about  half-a-day.  Braise  them  well  with  a  roller,  then 
put  them  into  a  pot,  and  press  them  well  down.  Put  on 
them  in  the  proportion  of  eight  drops  of  spirit  of  nitre, 
and  as  mach  saltpetre  as  will  lie  upon  a  sixpence  to  every 
poond  of  spawn ;  cover  them  with  a  piece  of  writing- 
paper,  upon  which  lay  a  coating  of  hog's-lard,  as  cold  as 
it  will  spread ;  then  tie  over  all  a  piece  of  dressed  sheep- 
skin, and  keep  in  a  warm  place  summer  and  winter. 

This  receipt  was  got  from  Easton,  hair-dresser,  Hawick, 
and  one  of  the  best  fishers  in  the  South  of  Scotland,  who 
prepared  and  sold  salmon  roe  at  a  high  price.  It  seems  taken 
from  the  Russian  receipt  for  making  moist  cavictrey  which 
is  largely  exported  to  Italy  and  Germany,  and  esteemed  a 
great  luxury.  Caviare  is  made  of  the  roe  of  the  sturgeon, 
the  beluga,  the  sterlet,  and  other  large  fish  found  in  the 
Caspian,  and  also  about  the  Wolga  and  Ural.  It  is  of 
two  kinds  —  moist  and  dry.  The  best  is  thus  prepared, 
and  the  receipt  may  be  equally  applicable  to  the  roe  of 
■almpn,  cod,  and  other  large  fish : — The  roes  (quite  fresh) 
are  cleared  of  all  fibres,  and  steeped  in  brine  till  the  grains 
soften ;  it  is  then  hung  up  in  quantities  of  about  eighteen 
pounds^  in  bags,  shaped  like  jelly-bags,  to  drain  ;  when 
drained,  fresh  brine  is  poured  in,  and  it  is  purified  by  the 
second'  draining.  The  roes  are  then  dried,  by  wringing 
the  bags  till  all  the  moisture  is  expunged  ;  it  hangs  in  the 
bags  for  twelve  hours,  and  is  then  trod  down  in  quantities 
in  tubs,  by  a  labourer  in  leathern  stockings.  The  fresher 
the  roe,  and  the  less  salt  used  to  cure  it,  it  is  esteemed  the 
better.  In  cold  weather  no  salt  is  used,  but  then  it  does 
not  keep  long. 

1190.  Tomlta  Yule  Mart^  or  whole  Bullock.  —  The 
following  approved  receipt  has  been  communicated  to  us 
for  salting  meat  for  famUy  use,  in  those  families  far  from 
markets,  where  a  winter-store,  or  marty  is  still  annually 
cured:  —  Take  as  much  spring  water  as  yon  think  will 
oover  the  pieces  of  meat,  and,  with  Liverpool  salt,  or  bay- 
salt,  make  of  this  water  a  pickle  so  strong  as  to  float  a 
potato.  Stir  till  the  ingredients  are  dissolved ;  and  after- 
wards boil  the  pickle  till  all  the  scum  is  thrown  off.  When 
^uite  cold,  pour  it  over  the  meat  in  the  salting-tub  or  bee/- 


CURING  MBAT,  HAMS,  &C,  61 1 

9tand.  —  Ohs,  The  meat  (and  all  meat  or  vegetables  salted) 
must  be  wholly  and  constantly  covered  with  the  pickle,  by 
occasionally  adding  fresh  supplies  as  it  wastes,  and  using 
a  sinking-board.  If  the  pickle  become  turbid,  and  a  scum 
gather  on  it,  either  pour  it  off,  and  boil  and  skim  it  well 
before  returning  it,  when  cold,  to  the  meat ;  or  use  a  fresh 
pickle,  which  may  now  be  afforded  cheaply,  and  is  per- 
haps better,  because  purer  than  the  original  liquor  boiled 
up.  Meat  preserved  in  this  way  is  never  disagreeably 
salt,  and  will  keep  for  a  long  time.  A  little  saltpetre 
boiled  with  the  pickle  will  tinge  the  meat.  If  meat  is 
rubbed  with  salt,  and  suffered  to  drain  from  the  blood  for 
ar  day  and  night,  it  will  keep  the  better.  If  meat  is  not 
liked  so  salt,  substitute  sugar  for  one-third  of  the  salt.  — 
Ob$.  Rock  salt  is  usually  called  Liverpool  salt  in  the  north- 
west of  Scotland  and  in  Ireland,  because  it  comes  from  that 
port.  The  best  of  all  salt  for  preserving  meat  or  fish  is 
what  is  called  bay  or  Lisbon  salt.  To  it  anchovies  partly 
owe  their  rich  mellowness. 

1191.  -4 »  excellent  general  Pickle  for  Meat^  Hatiu^ 
Tanpueif^  Sfc,  —  Take  in  the  proportion  of  six  ounces  of 
salt,  and  four  of  sugar  to  the  quart  of  water,  and  a  quar- 
ter-ounce of  saltpetre.  Rub  the  meat  with  salt,  let  it  drain 
for  two  days,  and  pack  it,  and  over  it  pour  the  pickle,  first 
boiled,  skimmed,  and  cooled.  Herbs  and  spices  ad  libitum* 
- —  Obs^  Various  ways  of  hastening  the  process  of  render* 
ing  meat  fit  for  cooking  are  proposed.  Some  recommend 
burying  in  the  earth  ;  others  hanging  the  meat  or  poultry 
in  a  fig-tree.  A  high  but  equal  temperature  appears  the 
most  rational  plan.  Cover  the  meat  with  a  thin  cloth,  and 
leave  it  as  long  as  is  wished  for,  or  convenient,  near  the 
kitchen  fire,  or  in  a  cool  ov«n.  If,  however,  the  temper- 
ature be  too  high,  the  meat  will  be  rather  hardened  than 
improved. 

1192.  To  salt  Beef  for  immediate  use,  and  to  make 
Soup  of.  —  For  this  purpose  we  prefer  the  thin  flank,  or 
what  are  in  Scotland  called  the  nine-holes,  the  runner^  and 
the  brisket.  Cut  it,  as  suitable,  into  pieces  of  from  three 
to  seven  pounds.  Rub  heartily  with  dried  salt.  Cover  up 
tiie  meat.    Turn  it  over  occasionally  (to  have  it  soaked  in 


612  CBAP.  UI«— eURIHO  UKAJa,  &c« 

brine),  and  in  a  week  it  will  eat  well  as  plain  hauilli  with 
toots,  and  make  also  a  good  Scotch  soup.  From  that  time 
to  six  weeks  it  will  eat  with  greens,  while  the  pot-liquor 
will  make,  or  help  to  make,  potato  or  pea  soup* 

1193.  Muttony  either  Bibs  or  Breast^  may  be  salted 
and  seryed  boiled  with  roots,  making  at  the  same  time  a 
good  potato  or  pea  soup,  seasoned  with  parsley  or  celery. 
A  hoiUd  Up  mlted  a  week,  is  preferred,  with  carrot  and 
fumip,  to  a  fresh  one,  by  many  excellent  judg^es.  The 
Collier**  Rocatj  a  favourite  dish  with  many  persons  in 
Scotland,  is  a  leg  of  mutton  salted  for  a  week,  roasted  and 
served  with  mashed  turnip,  or  browned  potatoes. 

1194.  To  cure  Bacon  in  Flitcheey  or  whole  Sidee,-^ 
(See  pages  606^7.)  —  When  all  the  lard  is  removed,  and 
the  tail,  ears,  pettitoes,  &c.,  taken  away,  rub  the  skin  side 
of  the  meat  long  and  briskly  with  wanned  salt  in  abun* 
dant  quantity.  Bub  about  the  shoulders  and  hams  very 
well,  as  these  are  so  thick.  The  pig  should  either  still 
retain  ihe  animal  heat,  or  hang  (which  we  like  better  ere 
handling)  a  few  days,  to  get  tender.  Turn  the  thoroughly- 
rubbed  meat,  and  strew  a  thick  bed  of  salt  in  which  a 
small  quantity  of  saltpetre  is  mixed,  over  the  whole  inside. 
Press  this  salt  down  close  every  where.  Throw  folds  of 
blanketing  over  the  meat,  on  the  table  or  trough,  and  place 
a  gentle  weight  over  it.  Let  it  lie  a  week,  basting  with 
brine.  Then  rub  afresh  the  outside  stoutly  and  long,  and 
with  fresh  salt  cover  the  inside  ;  let  the  meat  lie  thus  for 
ten  days,  and  then  drain,  roll  in  bran,  or  coarse  barley- 
meal,  and  hang  it  up  in  the  kitchen.  When  thoroughly 
dry,  remove  to  a  dry  place  to  hang  till  wanted.  It  may 
be  smoked. 

1196.  Bapid  Salting. — Lay  a  piece  of  meat  rubbed 
well  over  with  salt,  over  a  vessel  with  water  on  two  or 
three  twigs.  Lay  salt  thickly  over  the  meat.  The  eva« 
poration  of  the  water  will  melt  the  salt,  and  accelerate  the 
salting  of  the  beef. 

N.  B.  We  have  no  experience  of  this  mode  of  salting. 
It  is  evident  that  the  meat  thus  treated  must  either  be  used 
immediately,  or  plunged  in  pickle. 

1196.  To  smoke  Hams  and  Fish  on  the  small  scale,'-^ 


PRESBRTINO  MEAT  WITHOUT  8V0KIK0.  613 

Drive  the  end  out  of  an  old  puncheon  or  large  cask.  In- 
vert it  over  hirch  or  juniper  branches,  or  a  heap  of  the 
sawdust  of  green  hardwood  (oak  is  best)  in  which  saw- 
dust, a  bar  of  red-hot  iron,  is  buried.  Hang  the  tongues^ 
hams,  &c.,  on  sticks  across  the  cask,  and  cover  it  to  con- 
fine the  smoke,  giving  a  very  little  air  below,  that  the  ma- 
terial may  smoke  and  smoulder  slowly,  but  not  bum. 

N.  B.  Most  neighbourhoods  command  a  corn-kiln,  in 
which  hams  may  be  smoked  and  dried  tolerably  well» 


PBBSERVma  MEAT  WITHOUT  SMOKING. 

This  method,  practised  by  M.  Sanson,  consists  in  wash^ 
ing  the  meat,  nibbing  it  with  a  little  saltpetre  and  salt,  so 
that  these  substances  shall  penetrate  well  into  the  interior, 
moistening  it  with  vinegar,  and  covering  it  with  juniper- 
berries,  garlic  cut  small,  laureMeaves,  and  some  spices. 
Afterwards  a  solution  is  prepared,  composed,  for  twenty- 
five  pounds  of  meat,  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  muriate  of 
soda,  and  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  which  is  poured  cold 
on  the  meat,  which  ought  to  remain  in  it  for  two  days ; 
after  this  it  is  submitted  to  a  regular  pressure,  either  by 
loading  it  with  stones,  or  by  placing  it  under  a  screw-press ; 
it  is  left  in  thb  situation  for  fifteen  or  twenty  days.  At 
coming  out  of  the  brine,  the  meat,  properly  cleaned  and 
freed  from  the  ingredients  covering  it,  is  immersed  in  a 
solution  of  six  pounds  of  salt,  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
wood-soot,  powdered  and  very  pure,  and  six  quarts  of 
water.  In  this  mixture  it  is  left  for  eight  or  nine  hours, 
or  longer,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pieces ;  it  is  then 
taken  out  and  hung  up  in  an  airy  and  shady  place. 


On  a  former  occasion,  we  complained  of  the  small  atten- 
tion given  by  the  Farmer's  Maganine,  or  in  the  printed 
Transactions  of  the  Highland  Society,  to  the  homely  pro- 
cesses of  making  butter  and  cheese,  and  the  curing  of 
bacon.  This  grievance  no  longer  remains.  We  now  find, 
in  the  Quarterly  Journal  of  Agriculture,  the  report  of 
a  series  of  experiments  instituted  by  the  Highland  Society, 
under  the  superintendence  of  the  late  Dr.  John  Barclay 


CI  4      CHAP.  III. — ^MAKING  AND  CUBINO  BUTTER. 

and  Mr.  Alexander  Allaii ;  and,  more  recently,  under  that 
of  Mr.  John  Ballantyne,  cheesemonger,  Hanover  Street, 
which  must  he  interesting  to  all  practical  persons.     The 
experiments  were  to  ascertain,  what  should  he  the  exact 
temperature  of  cream  to  afford  hntter  of  the  hest  quality, 
and  in  greatest  quantity.     Dr.  Barclay's  experiments  were 
five  in  numher,  Mr.  Ballantyne's  six  ;  the  result  in  both 
cases  was  very  nearly  the  same.     The  mean  temperature 
of  cream,  when  put  into  the  chum,  is  best  at  about  53^  ; 
but  may  range  from  50°  to  67°  :  the  lower  the  temper- 
ature, the  longer  churning  is  required.     In  Dr.  Barclay's 
first  experiment,  the  cream  taken  at  50°  rose  in  two  hours' 
churning  to  56° ;  and  in  four  hours,  when  the  operation 
was  complete,  to  60°.     Each  gallon  of  cream  yielded  two 
pounds  of  butter  of  the  first  quality.   At  high  temperatures, 
the  quality  was  inferior,  and  the  quantity  less.     When  put 
in  at  a  temperature  of  66°,  the  cream  rose  in  the  churn  to 
75°,  and  the  butter  was  very  inferior  in  quality  and  ap- 
pearance ;  and  from  the  same  quantity  of  cream  as  on  the 
former  experiments  (fifteen  gallons  of  cream)  yielded  four 
and  a  half-pounds  less  of  butter.     We  learn  from  these 
experiments,  that  if  the  temperatui-e  be  below  52*^,  the 
butter  will  be  apt  to  suffer  from  the  tediousness  of  the  pro- 
cess of  churning  ;  if  above  60°,  it  will  be  in  danger  of  be- 
coming what  in  Scotland  is  called  bursten-hxitteT,    From  a 
communication  made  to  Sir  John  Sinclair  by  Mr.  Van- 
dergoes,  President  to  the  Board  of  Agriculture  of  South 
Holland,  we  learn  that  the  Dutch  butter  is  made  wholly  of 
cream,  and  that  no  ingredient  is  used  in  curing  save  salt, 
— "a  pickle  renewed  from  time  to  time." — See  Quarterly 
Journal  of  Agriculture,  No.  IV.     If  the  half,  or  part  of 
the  milking,  is  used  sweet,  or  for  making  cheese,  the  half 
first  milked  should  be  taken,  as  the  last  quantity  is  ascer- 
tained to  3'ield  more  cream.     Summer  cream  yields  rather 
less  butter  than  that  of  the  autumn  months,  even  at  the 
same  temperature  ;  and  August  or  September  butter  should 
be  preferred  for  storing. 


1197.  Making  and  curing  Butter.  — Having  washed  and 
beat  the  butter  free  of  butter-milk,  work  it  long   and 


TO  MAKE  AND  CURE  BUTTER.  615 

quickly  up,  allowing  a  scanty  half-ounce  of  pounded  salt 
to  the  pound.  Much  depends  on  this  thorough  dashing 
and  splashing  to  get  rid  of  the  hutter-milk,  as,  without 
entire  separation,  the  hutter  will  neither  he  good  nor  keep 
well.  Let  the  hutter  lie  for  twenty-four  hours,  or  more, 
and  then  for  every  pound  allow  a  half-ounce  of  the  fol- 
lowing mixture  :  —  Take  four  ounces  of  salt,  two  of  loaf- 
sugar,  and  a  half-quarter-ounce .  of  saltpetre.  Beat  them 
all  well  together,  and  having  worked  up  the  hutter  very 
well^  pack  it  for  use  in  jars  or  kits  not  too  large  :  or  use 
more  sugar  and  less  salt.  —  Ohs.  We  confidently  recom- 
mend this  method  of  twice  salting  hutter,  which  only  re- 
quires to  he  known  to  come  into  general  use.  It  effectually 
preserves  the  hutter,  without  so  much  salt  heing  employed 
as  to  give  it  a  hriny  and  disagreeahle  taste.  Summer 
hutter  requires  a  little  more  salt  than  that  cured  in 
autumn  ;  hut  the  above  proportions  are  used  in  some  of 
the  hest-managed  dairies  in  Scotland,  though  less  will 
preserve  the  butter.  Instead  of  strewing  a  layer  of  salt 
on  the  top,  which  makes  a  part  of  the  butter  useless  for 
the  table,  place  a  layer  of  the  above  mixture  in  folds  of 
thin  muslin,  stitch  it  loosely,  and  lay  this  neatly  over  the 
top,  which  will  efiectually  exclude  the  air,  and  form  a 
kind  of  pickle.  The  turnip-flavour  is  a  general  complaint 
against  butter  made  in  winter  and  spring.  Many  experi- 
ments have  been  made,  but  we  fear  it  is  not  possible 
wholly  to  remove  this  offensive  taste.  It  may,  however, 
he  much  ameliorated  by  mixing  nitre,  dissolved  in  water, 
with  the  milk,  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  of  nitre  to  ten 
gallons  of  milk.  To  give  the  cattle  a  little  straw  or  hay 
previous  to  their  feed  of  turnip,  is  a  method  employed  in 
some  places  for  preventing  the  turnip-flavour. 

1197.*  Bmtter  made  from  Milk. — When  butter  is  made 
from  the  whole  milk,  the  process  as  followed  at  Glasgow, 
and  described  by  Mr.  Ay  ton,  is  as  follows  : — The  milk, 
as  drawn  from  die  cow,  is  placed  in  the  coolers  until  the 
cream  has  risen,  and  it  is  emptied,  before  it  has  acquired 
any  acidity,  into  a  well-scalded  vat  of  size  sufficient  to 
contain  the  whole  of  the  milking,  or  perhaps  of  two 
milkings.    The  whole  must  now  sour  before  it  is  churned ; 


016  CHAF.  nZ. — ^MAKING  AN0  OURINO  BUTTER.  * 

in  souring  it  becomes  thick,  or,  as  it  is  called,  lappered, 
which  will  require  a  few  days.  Care  must  be  taken  not 
to  break  the  curd  or  tapper  of  the  soured  milk  before  it  is 
put  into  the  chum. 

1198.    Butter,  <m  made  in  SccfUand,  —  The    subjoiDed    re- 
ceipt, which  is  ezcelleDt  in  a  plain  and  rational  way,  is  tak^i 
from  Tke  Farmer*8  Magazine,    No  process  is  so  effectoal  in  salt- 
ing bntter  as  working  it  with  tke  hand  as  here  directed.     [We 
may  premise,  that  butter  kits  are  best  preserved  for  the  next 
salting  season,  by  being  allowed  to  stand  untcaehed,  with  any 
bits  of  bntter  (if  not  become  rancid)  that  may  adhere  to  the  sides, 
and  any  pickle  that  is  left.     When  to  be  used,  clean  the  kits 
well  by  scouring  and  scrubbing  with  salt.     If  old-smelled  from 
rancid  butter,  fill  them  with  fresh  earth  for  a  day  or  two  before 
cleaning  them,  which  will  freshen  and  sweeten  the   vessels. 
Dntch  stone- jars,  that  hold  from  ten  to  fifteen  and  forty  pounds, 
are  very  useful  for  preserving  butter,  and  twenty  other  domestic 
purposes,  and  are  far  cheaper  in  the  end  than  our  brown-ware 
coarse  jars.    Dairy  utensils  have  been  greatly  improved  of  late. 
Stone-ware  pans,  zinc,  and  new  strong  glass  pans,  are  adapted 
with  manifest  advantage  when  compared  with  the  old  wooden 
ones.     Glass  can  be  in  no  respect  inferior  to  the  marble  vessels 
which  are  seen  in  the  fancy  dairies  fitted  up  for  the  amusement 
of  duchesses  and  countesses.] 

"  My  covra  are  milked  at  eight  in  the  morning  and  at  eight 
in  this  evening;  and  the  number  kept  is  from  ten  to  twelve. 
Each  cow's  milk  is  strained,  either  by  itself,  into  a  dish  of  wood, 
or  two  put  together,  according  to  the  size  of  the  dish.  As  soon 
as  milked,  it  is  set  upon  shelves  of  wood  in  a  dairy  or  milk* 
house,  where  it  stands  in  general  as  follows,  viz.  the  evening 
milk  thirty-four  hours,  and  the  morning  milk  twenty-two  hours, 
when  the  cream  is  skimmed  .off,  and  put  into  a  vessel  which 
holds  one  week's  cream;  and  the  milk  is  then  made  into  cheese, 
which  sells  from  6s.  to  7s.  per  stone.  The  chum  is  something 
like  a  large  barrel,  which  stands  upon  a  frame  made  for  the 
purpose;  the  inside  work  being  driven  round  with  a  handle, 
the  same  as  a  pair  of  common  fanners.  The  batter  is  made 
generally  once  a- week;  and  in  the  morning  previous  to  that 
operation,  the  chum  is  filled  with  boiling  water,  when  the  in- 
side work  is  driven  a  few  times  round,  and  then  the  opening 
side  of  the  churn  is  turned  down  to  let  it  out,  the  work  being 
kept  going  round  till  the  water  be  completely  discharged,  in 
order  to  throw  out  any  sand  or  mud  that  might  fall  to  the  bottom, 
if  the  water  was  allowed  to  settle  and  run  out  of  itself.  The 
cream-vessel  is  then  brought,  and  the  cream  put  into  the  chum, 
where  it  is  wrought  till  the  butter  is  separated  from  the  milk ; 
when  it  is  taken  out  into  a  clean  vessel,  and  the  milk  well 
wrought  out  of  it.      A  com-sickle  is  then  drawn  through  th« 


to  HAKE  AND  CUBE.  BUTTER.  61 7 

bntter  seyeral  cross  ways,  in  order  to  take  out  any  bairs  that 
may  remain  in  it;  and  if  any  other  motes  appear  they  also  are 
iaken  out.  This  part  of  the  work  is  generally  done  with  the 
butter  among  clean  spring  water,  as  the  water  keeps  it  from 
turning  soft,  and  washes  away  any  milk  that  may  remain. 

**  The  butter  is  then  weighed ;  and  for  eyery  stone,  ten  ounces 
9f  salt  are  taken  (after  having  all  the  motes  carefully  picked  out) 
and  mixed  with  it.  The  salting  process  is  carefully  performed 
with  the  hand;  as  I  have  always  found,  that  if  salt  is  not  pro- 
perly mixed  and  incorporated  with  the  butter  at  the  time  of  salt- 
ing, it  neyer  keeps  so  well.  •  I  am  yery  particular  in  this  part  of 
the  work^  the  salt  being  weighed  with  the  same  weight  the 
butter  is  weighed  with.  In  May  and  June,  each  stone  of  but- 
ter will  take  one  ounce  of  salt  more;  and  after  the  middle  of 
August,  it  talces  one  less  than  the  aboye-mentioned  quantity. 
!Fhe  butter  thus  salted  is  put  into  a  clean  well-seasoned  kit,  and 
a  handftil  of  salt  shaken  on  the  top,  which  keeps  it  from  taming 
mouldy,  or  winding,  till  next  week,  when  the  butter  is  again 
made  as  aboye,  and  put  into  the  same  kit,  on  the  top  of  what 
was  put  in  the  week  before,  without  stirring  it,  and  a  handful 
of  salt  shaken  upon  the  top.  The  same  process  is  continued 
weekly  till  the  kit  is  full;  after  which  it  is  coyered  up,  and  set 
aside  till  my  customer  sends  for  it.  It  may  be  proper,  howeyer, 
to  examine  the  kit  occasionally,  to  see  that  it  does  not  let  out 
the  pickle;  as  butter  standing  without  pickle  soon  spoils.  In- 
deed, butter  salted  in  this  way  does  not  require  pickle  poured 
on  it,  unless  the  kit  is  defectiye. 

^  I  neyer  use  saltpetre,  since  butter  made  as  aboye  always 
retains  the  same  sweet  taste  till  used,  which  generally  happens 
within  twe}ye  months  after  it  is  made." 

N.B.  In  this  butter  there  are  twenty-four  pounds  to  the  stone» 
and  twenty-two  ounces  to  the  pound. 

1199.  To  freshen  Salt  BteUer, — Churn  it  anew  in  sweet 
milk, — a  quart  to  the  pound.     It  gains  in  weight. 

1200.  To  improve  rancid  Batter. — Wash  it,  melt  it 
gradually,  skim  it,  and  put  to  it  a  slice  of  charred  toast, 
or  some  bits  of  charcoal. 

1200.'  Butter  on  the  Continent  is  cured  by  putting  it, 
when  well  freed  of  the  milk,  over  a  slow  charcoal  fire  in 
a  preserving-pan.  It  is  carefully  skimmed  and  suffered 
to  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  stored  in  potting- 
cans  made  very  close.  Hbnet/  Butter  is  sometimes 
clarified  as  above,  and  preserved  by  melting  about  an 
ounce  of  honey  to  the  pound  with  it.  It  keeps  well  if 
potted,  and  answers  admirably  for  sweet  crust,  cakes,  and 
shortbread.     In  the  East  butter  is  melted  in  the  sun,  and 


CI 8  CHiP.  UI.^MAKI]rO  AHD  CITBIHO  BUTTER. 

kept  in  skins  like  wine.  The  Icelanders  allow  their  butier 
to  become  stmr,  and  seldom  use  it  either  fresh  or  salted. 
With  them,  butter,  like  wine  in  other  countries,  is  chiefly 
valued  for  its  age.  One  pound  of  old  sour  butter  (^Surt 
muBre)  is  reckoned  worth  two  of  fresh.  The  same  people 
cook  their  meat  in  sour  whey,  esteeming  the  broth  thus 
made  the  better  half  of  the  dish.  They  keep  sour  whey 
in  casks  as  one  of  their  favourite  dainties. 

1201.  Filbert  Butter.  —  Pound  a  few  filberts  to  a 
paste.  Chop  picked  parsley,  chives,  and  tarragon,  very 
fine.  Knead  them  with  butter  and  the  nut  paste,  and  roll 
up  in  small  shapes,  for  a  delicate  hors  d'ceuvre, 

1201.*  To  roll  Butter  for  a  Cheese-Course,  or  for 
Break/asty  and  to  garnish  Supper-Dishes.  —  Have  two 
small  wooden  fluted  spoons,  such  as  are  used  for  lifting 
butter.  Wash  and  boil  them  as  often  as  wanted.  Dry 
them  well,  and  rub  them  with  a  bit  of  butter  to  clean 
them  perfectly ;  then,  between  them  lightly  roll  up  bits 
of  butter  in  form  of  corks,  fir-cones,  small  pine-apples, 
shells,  &c.  Butter  is  used  in  many  ways  for  garnishing 
salads  of  meat  or  fish,  ham,  eggs,  anchovies,  &c.  It 
looks  best  when  squirted,  in  little  tufts,  or  little  delicate 
coral  branches,  or  open  lacework,  or  fine  basketwork. 
Borders  are  made  of  butter  coloured  red  with  carmine, 
or  green  with  spinage-juice  ;  we  do  not  admire  them.  They 
may  be  carved  or  stamped  in  a  variety  of  devices.  These 
are  best  made  of  Montpelier  hvMer^  a  French  preparation, 
(No.  601)  but  require  a  French  cook. 

1202.  To  scoop  BvUer. — Dip  the  tea-spoon  or  scooper  in 
warm  water,  if  in  cold  weather.  Scoop  quickly,  and  heat 
the  spoon  again  and  again  if  needful.  . 


OF  MAKING  CHEESE.* 

TiiANY  parts  of  our  island,  from  the  delicate  quality  of 
the  natural  pastures,  ought  to  furnish  the  very  best  cheese. 
We  can  indeed  perceive  no  good  reason  why  the  cheese  of 
Scotland  and  Wales  should  not  equal  in  flavour  that  of 

*  Since  the  publication  of  our  fifth  edition,  we  have  had  the  pleasure 
of  eating  Scotch  cheese,  made  in  Ettiick  by  receipt  1207,  as  good  as 
Stilton,  and  taken  for  it. 


MAKING  CHEESE.  619 

Switzerland  and  Lombardy.  Considerable  advances  have 
of  late  years  been  made  in  this  tardy  branch  of  our  rural 
economy  ;  but  notwithstanding  the  zeal  with  which  the 
Highland  Society  has  taken  up  this  subject,  the  range  of 
improvement  is  still  limited.  Though  one  occasionally 
sees  excellent  cheese  in  private  families,  little  that  is  loery 
superior  comes  to  market,  except  the  Ayrshire  cheese,  and 
cheese  of  the  same  sort  from  several  counties;  and  it  is  not, 
after  all,  a  very  delicate  cheese  for  the  table.*  The  low 
price  that  cheese  gives  in  those  remote  parts  of  the  country 
where  the  milk  most  resembles  that  from  which  the  Swiss 
and  Parmesan  cheese  is  made,  makes  the  farmer' s*  wife 
still  consider  all  the  sweet  milk  that  goes  to  her  cheese  as 
so  much  butter  lost ;  and  it  will  take  a  few  more  premiums, 
and  a  few  more  years,  to  convince  those  good  wives,  that 
a  shilling  got  for  cheese  will  go  quite  as  far  as  one  got  for 
butter,  and  often  be  more  conveniently  obtained.  Skim- 
milk  cheese  never  can  he  very  good^  and  is  hardly  worth 
making.  At  least  one-half  of  the  milk  used  should  be 
frcsh  from  the  cow.  Another  capital  error  is  making  the 
milk  too  hot,  and  then  employing  too  much  i*ennet,  which 
makes  the  curd  tough  and  hard,  however  rich  its  basis 
may  have  been.  The  quality  of  the  rennet  is  also  of  much 
importance.  The  more  gently  the  curd  is  separated  from 
the  whey,  the  milder  will  the  cheese  be.  Made  in  a 
cylindrical  form,  it  will  be  more  mellow  than  if  moulded 
in  a  broad  flat  shape.  PaHicular  attention  must  be  given 
to  the  cheese  in  the  winding  or  drying.  1'he  wrapping- 
cloths  must  be  changed  very  fi'equently,  that  the  cheese 
may  dry  equally.  The  salting  is  also  of  importance; 
and,  in  preference  to  either  salting  the  curd,  or  rubbing 
the  new  cheeses,  some  recommend  cheeses  being  steeped 
in  pickle.  We  have  doubts  on  this,  and  no  experience  of 
it,  and  would  prefer  salting  the  curd  to  any  mode.  A  sort 
of  cheese  for  the  table  of  very  high  gout^  an  almost  Tar- 
tarian preparation,  is  made  in  the  north,  by  allowing  the 

*  Since  our  first  edition  was  published,  considerable  improvements 
have  taken  place  in  cheese-making.  Some  capital  specimens  have  been 
exhibited^  and  we  place  great  hopes  on  the  Highland  Socibty^s 
QuARTBRLV  JOURNAL  OP  AGRICULTURE  for  many  more  improve- 
ments, both  in«butter  and  cheese. 


C20  CBAP.  in.-»MAKiy«  cuejsse. 

milk  to  become  sour,  and  to  coagulate  of  itself,  which 
gives  a  flavoar  eTen  more  pungent  than  that  of  goat's  or 
ewe  milk  cheese.  Cheeae^  to  keepy  should  be  put  in  a  cool 
and  rather  damp  place,  wrapped  in  a  damp  cloth,  and 
placed  in  a  covered  jar.  It  should  always  be  presented  at 
table  served  on  a  small  damask  napkin.  The  surface  of 
cheese,  particularly  a  cut  cheese,  when  to  be  kept,  should 
be  rubbed  with  butter  or  lard.  Dried  pieces,  when  they 
cannot  be  presented  at  table,  may  either  be  grated  down, 
to  eat  as  a  homely  kind  of  Parmesan,  or  used  in  macaroni, 
&c.  The  offensive  mould  which  gathers  on  cheese  may 
easily  be  distinguished  from** the  blue,''' — the  genuine 
<gniffo  which  stamps  its  value,  —  and  must  be  carefuSy 
wiped  off.  The  production  of  mites  may  be  checked  by 
pouring  spirits  on  the  affected  parts.  The  addition  of 
butter  to  the  curd,  or  of  lard  rubbed  into  the  new  cheeses, 
is  employed  to  enrich  the  quality  and  mellow  the  cheese. 

AmerieanvHi^tokeep, — ^When  the  cheese  is  sufficiently 
dried,  cover  it  with  folds  of  paper  pasted  on,  so  as  com- 
pletely to  exclude  the  air.  It  will  keep  for  a  long  while, 
and  keep  clean.  We  now  get  some  admirable  cheese  from 
America.  Chopped  sage,  or  the  expressed  juice  of  young 
red  sage,  caraway-seeds,  &c.,*  are  employed  to  flavour 
cheese,  and  various  substances  are  sold  to  heighten  the 
colour.  Of  these  saffron  and  amatto  are  the  most  in- 
offensive. Housewives,  who  make  this  branch  of  economy 
their  study,  will  find  many  observations  worthy  of  attention 
in  "Arthur  Young's  Tour  in  France  and  Italy,*' a  few  in  The 
Farmef^g  Magazine,  and  in  the  papers  of  the  Bath  Society. 
We  merely  subjoin  a  few  receipts  which  are  not  in  general 
circulation,  though  of  approved  merit.  —  See  No.  1208. 

1203.  Rennet  or  Yearning,  to  make, — Rennet  is  useful 
even  where  there  is  no  dairy,  as  whey  is  often  wanted, 
and  with  a  little  rennet  a  cheap  elegant  second  course  or 
supper-dish  for  warm  weather  may  be  furnished,  and  an 
agreeable  variety  given  to  the  milk  diet  of  schools,  nur- 

*  To  the  herb  melilot,  whieb  grows  in  abandanee  in  some  of  the 
cheeae  districts  of  Switzerland,  is  ascribed  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the 
Swiss  cheese,  as  Cheshire  made  at  particular  seasons  is  fancied  to  ow« 
its  fine  flavour  to  the  wild  radish  on  which  the  cows  feed* 


TO  MAKE  RBNNEt.  621 

series,  and  invalids.  Rennet  is  generally  made  of  the 
stomach  («'.  e,  maw)  of  the  calf,  and  also  of  that  of  pigs  and 
hares,  and  of  the  membrane  which  lines  the  gizzards  of 
fowls  and  turkeys.  This  last  makes  the  gaUino  rennet  of 
Italy.  Some  plants  are  also  used  for  rennet,  as  lady's  bed«> 
straw,  an  acrid  species  of  thistle,  and  artichoke,  also  wine 
and  vinegar,  in  making  wheys,  &c. 

Take  the  stomach  of  a  new-killed  calf,  of  from  a  week 
to  a  month  old.     Remove  any  crude  food  or  straws  found 
in  it,  but  not  the  curdled  milk.     Put  a  handful  of  salt 
into  it.     Sew  and  roll  up  the  bag,  and  lay  it  in  a  jar,  and 
strew  another  large  handful  of  salt  over  it.     Cover  and 
keep  in  this  pickle  for  ten  days,  then  drain,  wipe,  and 
paper  it  up^  or  cover  with  a  thin  cloth  (a  ceremony  few  of 
our  good-wives  observe,)  to  dry  near  the  kitchen  fire.     It 
generally  hangs  from  the  spring  of  one  year  till  another.. 
When  rennet  is  wanted  in  large  quantities  for  large  dairies, 
a  whole  dry  maw  is  cut  into  pieces  at  once,  put  in  a  jar 
with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  has,  from  six  to  nine  pints  of 
boiling  whey,  cooled  to  summer-heat,  poured  over  it,  ac- 
cording to  the  age  of  the  calf,  four  weeks  being  the  age  at 
which  it  yields  more  rennet  than  either  when  younger  or 
older.      The  ^eep^  as  it  is  called,  is  then  strained  and 
bottled  for  use,  a  glass  of  spirits  being  sometimes  added  to 
each  bottle,  to  increase  its  effect  and  make  it  keep  well. 
A  small  quantity  of  water,  with  salt,  is  again  poured  on 
the  maw,  and  allowed  to  steep  for  two  more  days,  and 
strained  and  added  to  the  other.     In  the  small  way,  for 
family  use,  a  bit  of  the  bag  from  the  pickle  may  be  steeped 
in  lukewarm  water,  and  will  repeatedly  give  rennet;  or  a 
bit  of  the  dried  maw  may  be  steeped  as  above.  —  GaUino 
Bennei,     When  oooking  fowls  or  turkeys,  keep  the  skins 
that  line  the  stomachs  or  gizzards ;  clear  them  of  pebbles 
and  other  matters;  and  salt,  dry,  and  steep  as  above- 
directed  a  few  bits  the  night  before  rennet   is  wanted. 
Rennet  may  now  be  bought,  and  in  useful  small  quantities* 
The  Dutch  cheese  is  said  to  owe  its  peculiar,  and  to  some 
disagreeable,  to  others  delightful  flavour,  to  muriatic  acid 
being  used  for  rennet.     Vulgarly  tliis  flavour  is  attributed 
to  8mn^8  milkt 


(122  CHAP.  III. — ^makino  creesb. 

1204.  Temperature  of  Milk  ai  which  to  put  in  tke  Renwt, 
— ^From  00°  to  96^.  The  rennet  may  in  temperate  weather 
be  put  to  the  milk  from  the  cow,  if  not  allowed  to  get  cool, 
and  the  oheese  will  be  all  the  finer ;  on  the  average  three 
quarts  of  milk  will  yield  one  pound  of  cheese.  Cover  the 
pan  or  dish  in  which  milk  is  set  to  coagulate,  and  do  not 
disturb  it  for  a  half-hour  or  more. 

1205.  To  colour  Cheese  and  Butter ^  and  to  produce  the 
Blue  Mould. — Arnatto  is  prepared  in  cakes,  in  London,  for 
the  use  of  the  dairy,  but  will  do  very  well  as  bought  in  the 
shops.    Tie  it  up,  when  reduced  to  powder,  in  a  bit  of 
muslin,  and  use  it  in  the  milk  for  cheese,  precisely  ss 
laundresses  do  blue  in  tinging  linen,  till  the  desired   shade 
of  colour  is  obtained.     For  btitter,  infuse  the  arnatto  in  a 
little  milk,  and  put  the  tincture  to  the  cream,  but  pale 
natural  coloured  butter  is  more  valued.     Cheese  is  tinged 
ffreen  with  juice  of  spinage ;  or  flavoured  and    slightly 
tinged  with  the  expressed  juice  of  the  red  sage.     The  truey 
blue  mouldy  in  cheese,  so  higbly  valued  by  connoisseurs, 
comes,  if  it  comes  at  all,  no  one  can  tell  how.     To  further 
its  production  the  cheese  is  brushed  clean  while  still  soft, 
dipt  in  whey  and  rubbed  slightly  with  butter  once  a- day, 
for  from  ten  days  to  twenty  days,  till  the  desired  appear- 
ance is  obtained.     The  fresh  cheese  is  also  inoculated  with 
bits  of  blue  from  a  blue  cheese,  and  catches  the  tint  by 
contact. 

1206.  Britieh  Parmesan. — Heat  the  day's  milk  to  little 
more  than  blood-heat ;  and  after  it  has  settled  put  in  H^ 
rennet.  When  it  has  stood  for  an  hour  or  more,  the 
coagulated  milk  is  to  be  placed  on  a  slow  clear  fire,  and 
heated  till  the  curd  separates  of  itself.  When  separated, 
throw  in  cold  water  to  reduce  the  temperature,  and 
quickly  collect  the  curd  in  a  cloth,  gathering  it  up  at  the 
comers.  Place  it  in.  a  deep  cheese-hoop,  and  press  it  as 
other  cheese.  Next  day  it  will  be  firm  enough  to  turn. 
Let  it  dry  slowly  and  gradually,  often  (at  first  about 
every  hour)  changing  the  wrapping-cloths.  Rub  it  with 
a  little  salt  daily,  for  three  weeks,  or  plunge  it  in  pickle 
for  a  few  days.  The  curd  for  this  or  any  other  cheese 
may  be  coloured  with  a  little  saffron,  or  arnatto,  by  put-* 


CHEESE.  ,     623 

ting  a  tincture  of  them,  extracted  in  milk,  to  the  milk 
when  to  be  curdled. — See  No.  1205. 

1207.  Scottish  Imitation  of  Stilton, — To  the  morning's 
milk  add  that  of  the  previous  evening,  either  skimmed  or 
with  the  cream,  as  you  intend  to  make  a  very  rich  cheese 
or  one  of  inferior  quality.  Do  not  heat  the  milk  too 
much,  and  employ  no  more  yearning  (9.  e,  rennet)  than 
will  barely  serve  to  curdle  it.*  When  fully  coagulated, 
gently,  and  without  much  handling  or  breaking,  place  the 
curd  in  a  deep  sieve  or  net,  and  afterwards,  when  firm 
enough  to  lift,  in  a  hoop.  Afterwards  steep  the  cheese  in 
pickle  ;  then  dry  it,  changing  the  binders  very  frequently. 
All  fine  cheese  should  be  rubbed  and  turned  every  day  for 
the  first  two  months.f 

1208.  Imitation  of  Double  Gloucester,  Receipt  by  which 
the  Specimen  teas  made  for  which  the  Highland  Society  gave 
their,  first  Premium, — This  specimen  was  what  is  called  a 
ono-meal  cheese,  that  is,  made  of  the  milk  obtained  at  one 
milking.  The  morning's  milking  is  reckoned  the  richest. 
Strain  Uie  milk  into  the  tub.  Colour  it  slightly  with 
arnatto  as  above  described.  Put  the  rennet  to  it.  The 
quantity  of  rennet  must  be  proportioned  to  its  strength. 
In  ordinary  circumstances  a  spoonful  will  coagulate 
twenty  quarts  of  milk.     When  the  curd  has  set,  press  off 

.  *  |f  the  cream  is  used,  -which,  for  a  prime  cheese,  it  should  be,  skim 
it  off ;  and  heat,  and  have  hot  in  readiness,  as  much  of  the  skim-milk 
as,  with  the  fresh  milk  hot  from  the  cow,  will  make  the  whole  warm 
enough  for  the  rennet :  then  pour  hack  the  cream.  Mix  and  add  the 
rennet.  a* 

•\r  In  Inverness  and  Ross-shires,  there  is  a  rural  breakfast  article 
called  crowdicj  not  the  common  composition,  oatmeal  and  water  or 
milk,  but  made  thus  : — Take  two  parts  fresh  sweet-milk  curd,  and  one 
of  fresh  butter.  Work  them  well  together,  and  press  them  in  a  basin 
or  small  shape,  and  turn  it  out,  when  it  will  slice  nicely.  When  whcj 
is  much  used  for  drink  in  hot  weather,  the  curd  may  be  usefully  thug 
disposed  of.  It  is  eaten'with  bread  and  butter,  and  keeps  a  long  time, 
if  gout  is  liked.  This  preparation,  when  the  curd  is  well  broken  and 
blended  with  the  butter,  is  sometimes  made  up  in  deep  narrow  coffs,  or 
wooden  moulds,  and  kept  for  months,  when  it  becomes  very  high 
flavoured  though  mellow.  The  celebrated  Arabian  cheese  is  made  in 
the  same  way  in  vats,  and  both  are,  of  their  kind,  uncommonly  fine. 
These  preparations  deserve  trial.  In  the  Lowlands  this  is  sometime! 
seen,  but  it  is  not  kept,  and  is,  for  this  reason,  called  a  o»«  day*$ 

» ^ —        O    rp  '' 


62^  CHAP.  111.— MAKING  CHEBSB. 

the  whey  with  skimmere ;  and  next  pressi  the  curd  to  the 
sides  of  the  tuh  till  it  get  finn.    Cut  it  into  cubes  of  sn 
inch ;  and,  gathering  it  into  a  cloth,  place  it  in  the  sieve 
or  hoop,  which  should  have  a  coyer  fitted  to  slip  down 
within,  on  which  place  a  weight  of  a  half-hundred  to  press 
it  moderately.     Let  it  at  this  time  stand  near  the  £n. 
When  drained,  which  will  be  in  about  twenty  niinnte^ 
cut  the  curd  still  smaller  than  before,  and  place  it  as 
before  in  the  hoop  for  another  twenty  minutes,  and  near  a 
fire.     Next  put  it  into  the  tub,  and  mince  it  into  very 
small  bits  with  the  three-bladed  knife  used  for  this  pur- 
pose in  dairies,  or  any  substitute.    Now  salt  the  curd, 
which  must  be  done  to  taste,  but  mix  the  salt  well  with 
it ;  and,  gathering,  bind  it  up  into  the  sort  of  doth  used 
in  dairies.    Place  it  in  the  chessel  in  the  cheese-press  for  a 
day  or  more,  changing  the  cloth  or  binder  as  often  as  it 
gets  wet.    When  Uie  cloth  remains  dry,  the  cheese  may 
be  presumed  dry.    For  some  weeks  after,  turn'  frequentiy^ 
Rub  the  cheese,  and,  if  you  like,  wash  it  moderately  with 
warm  whey.    In  this  experiment  one  hundred  quarts  o{ 
milk  produced  a  cheese  of  thirty  pounds. 

N.B.  Slips  of  the  elder,  placed  on  cheese^racks,  are  said 
to  keep  away  the  blow-fly.  Doubtjtd.  Cloyesy  lemoa- 
grate,  and  other  things,  are  sometimes  used  to  subdue  the 
bad  flavour  of  rennet.     Their  effect  is  more  doubtful  stilL 

1209.  Best  Dunlop  Cheese.^^As  soon  as  the    milk   is 
taken  from  the  cows,  it  is  poured  into  a  large  pail,  or 
pailsj  and,  before  it  is  quite  cold,  the  substance  called  the 
steep,  f .  e,  rennet,  is  mixed  with  it.    When  it  is  sufficiently 
coagulated,  it  is  cut  transversely  with  a  broad  knife  made 
for  the  purpose,  or  a  broad  three-toed  instrument,  in  order 
to  let  the  curd  subside,  and  to  procure  the  separation  of 
the  whey  from  it.     When  this  separation  is  observed  to 
have  taken  place,  the  curd  is  lifted  with  a  ladle,  or  some- 
thing similar,  into  the  chessely  (for  it  is  to  be  observed, 
that  where  a  proper  attention  is  paid  to  the  making  of 
these  cheeses,  no  woman's  hand  ought  ever  to  touch  the 
curd,  from  the  milking  of  the  cow  to  the  finishing  of  the 
whole,)  where  it  remains  a  few  hours,  till  it  has  acquired 
something  of  a  hardness  or  consistency.     It  is  then  take^v. 


DUNLOP  CHEESE.  626 

out  of  the  cheese-press,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  with 
the  instrument  above-mentioned,  of  the  size  of  one  or  two 
cubic  inches,  after  which  it  receives  the  due  proportion 
of  salt,  and  is  again  replaced  in  the  chessel^  and  piit  into 
the  press,  where  it  remains  a  few  hours  again.  Then  it  is 
taken  out  a  second  time,  cut  as  before,  and  mixed  tho- 
roughly, so  as  every  part  may  receive  the  benefit  of  the 
salt ;  and  for  the  last  time,  it  is  put  into  the  cheese-press, 
where  it  remains  until  replaced  by  its  successor.  After 
this  is  done,  it  must  be.  laid  in  a  clean  and  cool  place, 
till  sufficiently  dried,  and  fit  to  be  carried  to  market  ; 
great  care  is  to  be  used  in  frequent  turning  and  rubbing, 
both  to  keep  the  cheese  dry  and  clean,  and  to  preserve 
it  from  swelling  and  bursting  with  the  heat,  vulgarly 
^^ftre-fanginff"  When  these  cheeses  are  properly  made, 
and  dried  as  they  ought  to  be,  they  have  a  rich  and  deli- 
cious flavour. 

N.B.  This,  and  all  sorts  of  cheese,  may  be  pricked  with 
a  bodkin,  to  allow  the  escape  of  the  air,  which,  if  left, 
forms  what  are  called  eyes  in  cheese. 

1210.  A  rich  Cream-Cheese^  without  Rennet,  —  Dr. 
Hunter. — Take  any  quantity  of  thick  cream,  and  put  it 
into  a  wet  cloth.  Tie  it  up,  and  hang  it  in  a  cool  place 
for  seven  or  eight  days.  Then  take  it  from  the  cloth  and 
put  it  into  a  mould,  (in  another  cloth,)  with  a -weight 
upon  it,  for  two  or  three  days  longer.  Turn  it  twice 
a-day,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

1211.  Imitation  of  Shap  Zigar, — This  is  made  by  fla- 
vouring the  curd  with  the  expressed  juice  of  melilot,  and 
greening  it  with  juice  of  spinage.  Press  it  hard,  and  dry 
it  slowly,  that  it  may  be  thoroughly  dry,  and  fit  to  rasp. 
If  made  of  ewe  or  goat's  milk  the  imitation  will  be  very 
close. 

1211.'  Oouda  Cheese,  an  improved  Method  of  making, — 
When  the  milk  is  all  collected,  the  rennet,  which  is  pre- 
pared in  the  following  manner,  must  be  put  into  it :  Six 
rennets  must  be  taken  and  cut  into  small  pieces  ;  on  these 
must  be  poured  tliree  kilogrammes  of  water,  in  which 
about  five  kilogrammes  of  kitchen-salt  have  previously 
been  dissolved.     ]t  may  be  proper  also  to  add  two  ounces 

2r 


(t2(l  CHAP.  UI. — ^MAKUfd  CHXBBC. 

of  Baltpetre  or  tii«  salt  of  nUse^  and  half  a  hottle  of  tKe 
▼inegar    of   wina*    This  mixture    mut   be   allowed  to 
remain  for  abont  three  weeks,  when  ii  is  pai  lata  boUles. 
The  botlies  most  be  coriLed  with  great  care,  tlte  i^fl»y^«<— 
of  the  air  being  pemiciofis  to  the  leuMt.     Wlien    the 
rennet,  thus  pr^aied,  is  ponied  into  the  milk^  it  maat  be 
stirred  very  gently  in  a  phua  nnpainted  wooden   tnmgl^ 
withont  the  additioB  ef  warm  water.     It  ia  not  advisable 
to  add  warn  water,  vnlees  when  the  milk  comes  f  rcmi  veiy 
distant  pasturage,  or  whea^  on  aceonni  of  the  eoidncss  ^ 
the  weather,  the  heat  neceesaiy  lor  promoting  the  opera- 
tion of  the  rennet  is  wanting*    It  is^  however,  still  prefer- 
able to  heat  the  trough  dizeetljr  by  meanft  of  &re,  as-  is  the 
custom  in  9witeerland,  where  they  heat  the  copper  haaine 
employed  for  this  purpose.    In  those  farms  where  the- 
pefstare  is  very  riok^  it  is  proper  to  add  a  little  warm 
water  to  the  milk.     Particular  care  must  be  taken  M>t  to 
mix  portions  of  milk  whieh  have  been  drawn  Uspen  diff&- 
lent  days,  or  even  at  separate  hours  of  the  sane  day,  aa 
cheeses  made  in  this  manner  are  always  of  a  i^ery  inferier 
flavour.     When,  by  means  of  gentle  and  regular  agita- 
tion, the  differant  parts  of  the  mUk  begin  to  separate,  and 
when  the  whey  is  skimmed  off,  the  cuht  must  be  kMeaded 
with  great  care,  in  order  that  the  large  and  small  partides 
may  not  be  put  together  confusedly  in  the  frame,  and  that 
they  may  be  as  small  and  as  equal  in  size  aa  poesiUe* 
The  curd  must  then  be  wrapped  in  a  thin  linen  eloth,  of  a 
fine  but  strong  texture,  and  put  into  the  frame.     The 
frames  used  by  IL  Van  Bell  are  different  from  those 
usualiy  employed,  the  sides  being  verticaL    The    lid* 
ought  to  bo  made  to  fit  exactly.  The  wsjla  of  these  frames 
must  be  pierced  with  small  holes,  through  which  the  whey 
will  exude.    If  any  difficulty  be  found  in  taking  the  cheese 
fr(Nai  the  frame,  it  wiU  be  sufficient  to  blow  into  titose 
aperturesy  as  in  this  way  the  tension  of  the  air  will  be 
removed,  ahd  the  eheese  easily  taken  out.     The  frame 
ought  to  be  placed  upon  a  pedestal,  near  the  press,  in  order 
that  they  may  be  easily  put  beneath  it.    The  eheese,  with 
its  cloth,  ought  to  be  repeatedly  returned  to  the  frame,,  and 
particularly,  at  the  commencement  of  the  presimre.     When 


fK>BBA  CBBBSB,  &C.  627 

I  th«  cheeae  is  ptaeed  under  the  press,  the  pressure  must 
\  at  first  be  Mgh^  and  afterwards  increased  by  slow  degrees. 
f  Care  must  be  taken  that  the  pillars  of  the  windlass-press 
jl  be  yertical ;  and,  if  the  lever-press  be  used,  that  the  pre»' 
I  snre  may  arise  exactly  on  the  centre.  With  regard  to  the 
duration  of  the  pressure,  M.  Van  BdPs  method  diilers 
entireiy  from  that  of  tho  English,  who  leave  the  cheese 
under  the  press  for  a  long  period,  sometimes  even  for 
three  days,  whereas  M.  Van  Bdl  does  not  allow  it  to  re^ 
main  even  so  long  as  is  the  custom  in  Holland.  He 
diminishes  the  duration  of  the  pressure  according  to  the 
warmth  of  the  temperature,  in  order  that  he  may  be  able 
to  put  the  cheese  more  speedily  into  pickle.  In  truth, 
nothing  produces  the  putrefaction  of  the  cheese  so  easily 
as  the  acetous  fermentation  of  the  milk.  Now,  it  is  con- 
ceived that  this  fermentation  is  only  increased  by  allow- 
ing the  cheese  to  remain  long  in  the  press,  especially  during 
warm  weather ;  when,  by  the  method  of  M.  Van  Bell, 
the  curd  frees  itself  rapidly  and  effectually  from  the  whey, 
and  the  cheese  may  be  sooner  put  into  the  pickle,  which 
acts  in  such  a  way  as  to  prevent  the  fermentation.  When 
the  cheeses  are  removed  from  the  pickle,  they  must  be 
placed  upon  boards  in  the  usual  manner,  which  is  well 
known  to  every  experimental  cheese-maker.  M.  Van  Bell 
advises  the  use  of  pickling-troiighs,  of  a  depth  sufficient 
to  allow  the  cheeses  to  float,  in  order  that  the  pickle  may 
penetrate  them  equally  on  all  sides. 

'  1212.  To  fatten  Poukry/or  the  Table. — Keep  the  fowls 
clean,  warm,  and  dry.  Mix  together  for  their  food  oat 
and  pease  meal,  with  mashed  potatoes,  and  a  little  kitchen- 
stuff.  Have  their  food  always  fresh  and  in  plenty,  but  do 
not  cram  them.  Rice  swelled  in  sweet  skimmed  milk  is 
liked  to  fatten  fowls  by  those  who  value  the  colour  as 
much  as  the  quality.  In  France,  they  are  fattened  on 
barley-meal  with  milk,  or  on  buckwheat,  and  the  flavour 
is  excellent.  Young  pullets  are  used  at  any  age,  but,  for 
the  more  delicate  purposes  of  cookery,  they  are  best  at 
the  age  of  seven  or  eight  mt)nths.  Dorkings  white,  and 
Polanders  black,  are  good  layers^  and.  also  approved  for 
the  table.     Turkeys  are  fed  as  above ;  or  on  stewed  bar- 


028  CHAP.  III. — BOOS — ^HONBT. 

ley,  with  ihe  part  of  wheat-flour  called  in  Scotland  parini;- 
roeal,  mixed  with  it.  In  Indian  com  meal  and  buck- 
wheat we  hare  now  admirable  articles  for  fattening  poultry. 
We  give  no  receipts  for  cramming  poultry. 

To  keep  hens  laying  in  winter,  the  French  give  them 
nettle-seed  and  bruised  hemp-seed.      In   establishments 
where  much  attention  is  paid  to  poultry,  besides  taking 
great  care  to  keep  them  clean  and  warm,  which  is  neces- 
sary to  the  thriving  or  fattening  of  every  sort  of  animal, 
they  are  fed  with  to<uts  and  aUy  barley  sodden  and  steeped 
in  fresh  beer,  or  messes  of  peasemeal  or  rye>flour.     The 
Malay  or  Chittagong  fowls  have  for  some  years   been 
favourites  of  Scotland.    They  are  a  handsome  and  econo- 
mical variety.     The  game  breed  of  fowls  is  of  high  flavour. 

1213.  EggSy  to  preserve,  —  They  should,  at  all  times, 
either  when  bought  or  gathered  from  the  nests,  be  rubbed 
with  butter.  A  minute  will  go  over  two  dozen,  and 
this  simple  process  will  generally  be  sufficient  to  preserve 
them  as  long  as  required  in  private  families,  and  even  when 
they  are  to  be  exported  from  Ireland,  France,  Orkney,  Jersey, 
and  the  many  places  from  which  eggs  are  now  sent  to  the 
markets  of  our  great  cities.  They  may  also  be  preserved 
by  a  solution  of  lime,  salt,  and  cream  of  tartar,  poured 
over  them  in  the  keg  in  which  they  are  packed.  In  Sng- 
land,  old-fashioned  housewives,  after  smearing,  hang  eggs 
in  a  net,  which  is  turned  upside-down  daily.  To  keep,  if 
for  plain  boiling,  they  may  be  parboiled  one  minute. 

1214.  Another  way,  —  Dip  them  in  a  solution  of  gum- 
arabic,  and  pack  in  dry  pulverized  charcoal. 

1215.  To  run  Hon^, — Grently  loosen  the  combs.  Sepa- 
rate the  best  pieces  to  keep  and  serve  in  the  comb,  if 
ivished,  as  honey  always  looks  best  in  the  comb.  If  not, 
place  these  singly  on  open  wire  frames,  laid  over  a  jar, 
opposite  the  fire,  but  not  so  near  as  to  melt  the  wax,  (an 
open  corn-sieve  will  be  a  good  substitute  for  a  frame.) 
Cut  the  pieces  of  comb  with  a  long  knife  twice,  horizon- 
tally ;  then  slice  them  down  as  it  were  into  chequers,  to 
permit  the  honey  to  flow.  When  drained  completely  on 
one  side,  turn  over  the  other.  The  liquid  honey  is  then 
to  be  i*un  through  a  coarse  jelly-bag,  made  of  the  kind  of 


UISCBLLANBOUS  RECEIPTS.  62^ 

stuff  used  in  dairies,  and  hooked  on  a  stand  in  the  usual 
manner  of  running  jellies.;  the  jar  placed  under  the  bag, 
when  fuU,  must  be  closely  bunded  up.  The  pure  or  virgin 
combs  being  thus  disposed  of,  the  inferior  sort  are  to  be 
treated  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  refuse,  obtained  hy 
wringing  the  bags  and  scraping  the  frames  and  jars,  may 
be  turned  to  account  in  vinegar,  adding  double  its  weight 
of  water,  or  with  hog's  lard  as  a  paste  for  chapped  hands. 
—  Honeycamby  to  keep  entire.  The  finest  pieces  are  selected, 
handled  as  gently  as  possible,  papered  and  kept  in  a  wide 
jar,  set  aslant  and  covered. 

N.B.  —  Those  who  have  even  but  three  or  four  hives 
would  do  well  to  consult  Loudon's  Gardener's  Dictionary, 
which  contains  the  substance  of  all  that  is  known  on  the 
subject  of  bees,  whether  theoretically  or  practically  ;  or  the 
Bee  Preserver y  a  little  work  by  a  Swiss  clergyman,  M.  de 
Gelieu,  lately  translated  by  a  lady. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

A  SELECTION  OF  USEFUL  MISCELLAi^EOUS  RECEIPTS  FOR  CLEAN- 
ING AND  PRESERVING  FURNITURE,  CLOTHES,  &C. 

1216.  To  scour  Carpets,  —  Dust  the  carpet  well,  and,  if 
large,  pick  it  asunder  into  two  or  more  pieces.  Have  them 
first  well  rinsed,  in  running  water  if  possible,  and  then 
scoured  in  a  ley  made  of  boiled  soap.  Repeat  this  till  the 
breadths  are  clean.  Next  rinse  them,  and  last  of  all  put 
them  into  a  tub  of  clean  water  in  which  a  large  table-spoon- 
ful of  oil  of  vitrol  is  mixed,  which  will  brighten  the  colours 
and  keep  them  from  running.  Choose  a  dry  windy  day 
to  scour  carpets,  as  remaining  long  wet  will  injure  the 
colours.  If  there  are  any  greasy  spots,  let  them  be 
rubbed  with  soft  or  boiled  soap  before  the  carpet  is  wet. 
Hearth-rugs  are  done  in  the  same  way.  Obs, — Carpets 
may  be  washed  stretched  on  a  clean  floor,  using  sponge 
and  soap-ley,  and  afterwards  rinsed  and  dried.  Nail  them 
tightly  out  when  again  laid  down.     They  may  also  be 


090'  CHAP.  IT. — mncwuAMwmjs  kscupts. 


icoored  with  a  baUook's  gmU  mbrnl  Ib  &  pail  of  wmter,  ar 
with  fuller's  earth,  and  thea  be  nnaed. 

1217.  TowaskChitUzI\irmtur$ySkuwii^^c. —  C^ooee  t 
good  drying  day  before  you  wiet  ihe  cdoth.      Diist  the 
things  well  previovsly  by  shaking  and  mbbing,  and  wash 
them  qniekly  out  in  eool  lathers  leady  made    up  with 
boiled  white  soap.     Two,  or  at  most  three  lathers  will  do 
them.     Rinse  in  cold  spring-water,  in  wiueh  stareh  and  s 
little  oil  of  vitriol  have  been  mixed,  whieh,  without  in- 
juring the  fabric,  will  brighten  the  eolours,  and  ^ref«Bt 
them  from  running.     Shake  the  things  very  ^reU,  and 
Kpeat  this  oecasionany  till  they  are  dry,i — 06#.  Rice-vater 
is  now  very  mueh  used  iar  fine  printed  calioees  and  diintaee. 
ft  is  u$ed  thus  .*  —  Botl  a  pound  of  lioe  im  five  quarts  of 
water,  and,  when  cool  enough,  wash  the  chiuts  in  this,  using 
the  rice  as  soap.   Have  another  quantity  ready,  hut  stnin 
the  rice  from  this,  and  use  it  with  fresh  warm  water,  keep- 
ing the  rice-water  strained  off  for  the  third  washing,  whidi, 
at  the  same  time,  stiffens  the  chintz,  and  brightens  tbe 
colours.    The  things  should  be  dried  quickly  between  laige 
folds  of  sheets. 

1218.  To  clean  Printed  Calico  Ikumiiure.  —  Shmke  and 
brudi  with  a  long-baited  brush,  nib  with  dean  ilaaasi, 
and  fold  It  carefully  in  laige  folds.  Crumb  oi  ostale  bread 
will  also  clean  it.  For  merino  curtains  also  use  flannel, 
and,  if  much  soiled,  sprinkle  bran  over  it,  lubbing  it  in 
little  bits  circularly,  aad  keeping  clean  bran  only  m  ope- 
lation, 

1219.  To  scour  Blankets, — Boil  good  mottled  soap  and 
pearl  ashes.  Make  a  strong  lather.  Pour  moie  hot 
water  over  the  lather,  and  wMh  the  blankets,  previoasly 
wetted  through  in  cold  water,  till  the  lather  becomes  dirty. 
Repeat  this  till  a  dean  lather  comes  off  them.  Less  soap 
solution  may  be  used  the  second  time,  and  little  or  none 
the  last  time ;  but  the  water  must  be  warm,  and  the 
blankets  folly  covered  with  it,  else  they  will  thicken. 
Shake  well  while  drying.  Every  thing  in  drying  should 
he  well  shaken  and  stretched :  —  Linen,  to  make  it  mangle 
well — woollens  to  keep  them  from  thickening,  and  to  raise 
the  pile.    As  a  general  rule,  all  woollen  articles  should  be 


saturated  with  cM  water,  and  wrung,  immediately  before 
being  washed  in  warm  water. 

1220.  To  wash  Silk  /SS^9(»Kfi^.— Wash  in  white  soap-ley 
and  warm  water,  and  scald  them  in  the  same.  Rinse  in 
cold  water,  and  dip  them  in  water  in  which  a  drop  of  blue 
or  a  bit  of  cudbear  or  pink  die  is  put,  aooording  to  the 
tinge  wanted.  Rnb  them  lill  dry  with  clean  flannel ;  if 
w^l  poliriied  no  mangling  u  required,  and  the  lustre  is 
4»rtghter. — Oo^tm  Stodbin^.  Steep  the  feet  over  night  in 
«old  water ;  wash  o«t.  Boil  m  strong  lather;  rinse,  bleach, 
dry,  and  iron,  pmss  or  mangle  them.     « 

i22J.  Tot€dceSpo^ofPai^fromCltaki»/iidSiUBS.-^l^^ 
clean  pen  in  spirit  of  turpentine,  andtonch  the  spot  as  soon 
mfter  it  is  stained  as  possible.    When  dry,  mb  the  place. 

1222.  To  t4»ke  greasy  Stains  mU  of  Sak.^-'Scrsfe  French 
«thalk  or«r  the  spot,  and  repeat  this  till  the  grease  comes 
x>ttt,  then  rub  off  the  chatk ;  or  rmh  lightly  but  briskly 
•with  a  clean  soft  bit  of  lawn  or  cambric  tili  the  spot  dis- 
appear. 

1223.  To  take  out  Iron-Mould, — Hold  the  spot  stretched 
wet  over  a  jug  of  hot  water,  and  rub  it  with  salt  of  lemons, 
or  juice  of  sorrel,  and  salt ;  then  wash  it  immediately, 
lest  the  acid  injure  the  fabric  of  the  doth. 

1224.  TotakeoMt  Staint  of  Wine,  #Hm^,  ^.--^Wash 
well,  rub  widi  starch,  and  expose  the  linen  to  Uie  sun  till 
the  stains  came  out.  £xpo8ing  the  «pet,  slightly  wetted, 
to  the  fumes  of  borning  aulphtir  for  an  instant,  will 
remev«  these  etains.  A  common  match  will  answer  the 
purpose. 

1225.  lb  romove  JftWev.*— Rub  the  spots  wttk  soap,  and 
scrape  some  fine  chalk  over  this.  Rub  it  in,  and  expose 
the  oloth  ie  the  sun.    R^ieat  this  till  the  spots  disappear. 

1226.  'Clothes^  Chsets,'^  These  small  useful  apartments 
should  be  lined  with  wood  very  closely  fitted ;  fumisbed 
with  shelves  and  wooden  pegs,  on  which  to  suspend  ladies' 
diesses,  and  things  which  folds  would  injure.  Turpentine, 
cedar-shavings,  Russia  leather,  &c.,  should  be  strewed 
ehoKLt  them,  and  ^azed  linen  curtains  should  be  drawn 
closely  round  the  shelves  ;  on  which  pieces  of  charcoal 
wrapped  in  muslin  may  be  laid.     Modem  wardrobes  are 


632  CHAP.  ir. — ^MISCELLANEOUS  RBCEIPTS. 

better  than  these  ;  hut,  nnhickily,  though  their  price  might 
not  be  grudged,  few  bedchambers  are  large  enough  cobyc- 
niently  to  hold  them.  Bcnnet-boxes,  whether  of  paste- 
board, wood,  or  tin,  should  be  roomy,  and  furnished  with 
trays  above,  and  a  bonnet-pin  in  the  centre,  on  which  to 
hang  the  head-dress. 

1227.  Fur  J  to  preserve.  —  Sew  the  articles  closely  up  in 
linen  of  a  close  texture,  with  camphire  or  Russia  leather 
about  it.     Air  and  shake  them  occasionally  before  the  fire. 

Another  way.  —  Keep  in  tin-plate  boxes  closely  shut. 

1228.  Ink-spots^ — Wash  these  immediately,  first  in  cold 
water,  then  iu  soap  and  water.  Use  also  lemon-juice  or 
vinegar.  Oil  of  vitriol  will  take  ink  from  mahc^ny. 
Touch  with  a  feather,  rub  it.  quickly  out^  and  put  a  little 
oil  on  the  spot  lest  it  whiten. 

]  229.  To  clean  Marble  Slabs  and  Chimney  Pieces. — ^Mix 
verdigris  and  pumice-stone  with  now  slaked  lime  in  soap- 
ley.  Make  a  paste  of  this  mixture,  and  rub  one  way 
with  a  woollen  rag.  Wash,  and  repeat  this  till  the  stain 
comes  out. 

1230.  To  clean  papered  Rooms.  —  Clear  away  the  dust 
with  bellows  and  a  long-haired  brush  ;  cut  a  stale  loaf 
into  eight  pieces ;  and,  beginning  at  the  top  of  the  wall, 
rub  downwards  in  even  strokes,  as  if  laying  on  paint. 

1231 .  To  clean  Paint.  —  Brush  off  the  dust ;  and  with 
ox- gall  or  whiting  scour  the  paint,  rubbing  it  hard  to  re- 
store the  gloss  ;  or  use  mottled  soap  made  into  a  strong 
ley,  if  the  only  object  is  to  clean.  —  Obs.  Sponge  is  pecu- 
liarly well  suited  for  this,  and,  indeed,  all  domestic  pur- 
poses of  cleaning,  whether  dishes,  plate,  floor-cloths,  maho- 
gany, &c.,  &c. 

1232.  To  take  Chrease  from  papered  Walls  or  Books.  — 
Apply  dry  hot  flannel  to  the  spot,  then  rub  it  over  with 
hot  spirit  of  turpentine.  Repeat  this  till  the  grease  is  re- 
moved. If  turpentine  would  injure  the  colours  in  the 
paper,  lay  several  folds  of  blotting-paper  on  the  spot,  and 
apply  a  hot  iron  over  that,  till  the  grease  is  absorbed  by 
the  blotting-paper,  —  or  cover  with  French  chalk  if  very 
bad. 

1233.  To  clean  Floor-cloths. — Sweep  and  rub  them ;  then 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  633 

--wash  with  soap-ley,  using  sponge  or  flannel,  but  do  not  wet 
them  much.     Rub  hard  up  with  dry  flannel.     A  little  wax 

may  then  be  rubbed  in,  which  both  improves  the  appear- 
ance and  preserves  the  surface. 

1234.  To  polish  Furniture,  —  Nothing,  to  our  taste,  im- 
proves mahogany  so  much  as  daily  brisk  rubbing ;  but 
various  preparations  are  in  use.  Break  down  two  or  more 
ounces  of  bees'  wax,  and  melt  it  in  an  earthen  pipkin,  take 
a  half-pint  of  oil  of  turpentine,  an  ounce  of  alkanet-root, 
and  a  very  little  rose-pink  ;  pour  this  on  the  wax  when 
ready  to  boil ;  stir  it  up  and  let  it  cool ;  rub  a  very  little 
on  the  furniture  (previously  cleaned),  and  polish  with  dry 
flannel,  or  use  merely  one  ounce  white  wax,  and  two  of 
turpentine.  —  Obs.  Linseed-oil,  cold  drawn,  was  wont  to 

'  be  used  for  mahogany  ;  but  the  taste  of  the  day  is  for 
light-coloured  furniture,  and,  accordingly,  oil  which  deepens 
the  colour  rapidly  is  not  so  much  used.  Two  parts  lin- 
seed-oil, with  one  of  turpentine,  make  a  good  composition 
for  dining  tables  ;  or  use  equal  parts  of  oil,  vinegar,  and 
turpentine.  Wax  prevents  the  action  of  the  light,  and 
keeps  wood  of  a  lightish  colour  for  many  years.  Various 
pastes  and  varnishes  are  9old  to  colour  and  polish  maho- 
gany, which,  with  the  exception  of  wax,  if  we  wish  to  pre- 
serve the  wood  of  its  first  colour,  or  of  oil  to  polish,  we 
conceive  of  little  utility,  farther  than  as  they  may  contri- 
bute to  beguile  the  toil  of  the  fair  polisher. 

1235.  To  polish  Mahogany^  ^c.  in  the  Italian  Man- 
ner. — Clean  and  cover  the  wood  with  olive-oil.  Melt  gum- 
arabic  in  spirits  of  wine,  and  polish  the  wood  hard  with 
this,  which  gives  a  beautiful  varnish.  —  Ohs.  Pieces  of  old 
soft  beaver-hats,  and  of  soft  smooth  cork,  are  very  useful 
in  rubbing  furniture. 

1236.  To  preserve  Polished  Steel.  —  Smear  with  mut- 
ton-suet, and  dust  over  with  unslacked  lime.  A  paste  of 
lard  or  fowl's  grease,  camphire,  and  black-lead,  will  also 
preserve  steel.  Caoutchouc-varnish  is  the  most  efiectual 
coating  for  steel,  but  it  is  too  expensive  for  common  do- 
mestic purposes. 

1237.  To  clean  Steel  Grates, — Rub  the  bars  clean  while 
itill  warm,  if  it  be  possible ;  then  clear  with  emery-paper, 


634  CHAP.  IT. — MUCmLLAMMOJn  RBCRIPTB. 

or  polish  by  h&id  mbbing,  vnng  a  littie  diy  emeiy,  or 
finely-pounded  Bath-brick.  When  reiy  dirty,  a  thin  paste, 
■wde  of  emery  and  boiled  soap,  will  be  found  usefnl  at 
first. 

1238.  To  clean  Broit  €frats$,  Fin-ir^m*^  See. — ^Bfake 
a  smooth  paste  of  rotten-stone  (pounded  ^mely  and  mftoi) 
and  sweet  oil.  Keep  in  a  tin-box ;  rub  oa,  if  hard  nang 
a  drop  of  oil,  and  cleaning  with  a  linen  nthber ;  polish 
with  leather.  Pastes  for  brass  are  now  sold  very  reascoabl j. 

1239.  To  clean  Kmve84tnd  Forke, — Use  a  board  covered 
with  leather.  Bath-brick  isstlU  the  best  thing  knows  for 
cleaning  knives.  Wa^  oiF  the  grease  and  dry  the  kaiYw 
as  soon  as  they  come  f  nMB  table ;  but  do  not  use  water 
too  hot.  It  u  good  to  hare  a  tin  am  or  jug  for  this  pa^ 
pose  move  than  an  inch  less  in  depth  than  a  table-knife  blade 
is  long.  On  a  wooden  board  two  knives  may  be  cleaned  at 
once,  taking  one  in  each  hand,  holding  them  back  to  back, 
and  rubbing  in  different  dinections.  Wipe  forks  w^  and 
plnnge  the  prongs  into  a  ji^  or  other  small  vessel  filled 
with  Bath  briek-dnst  or  fine  sand,  which  may  be  kept 
compact  by  a  mixtniB  of  damp  moss.  Clean  between  the 
prongs  Mrith  a  piece  of  leather  tied  to  a  sticdc ;  wipe  4»ff  all 
dust,  and  rub  iiiera  up.  Lay  knives  and  finrks  not  in  daily 
use  before  the  fire  wl^n  cleaned,  and  wrap  eaidi  up  sepa- 
rately in  paper.  A  compact  and  ecnaprehensive  knile- 
board  has  lately  been  introduced. 

1240.  To  deem  Plate  and  Plated  AtUdee.  —  Clean  the 
plate  very  well,  using  a  ^onge,  with  soap-ley  and  boiMng 
water,  and  Inmshing  all  tiie  carved  places.  Dry  and  rvb 
with  plate  powder,  hartshorn-powder,  or  the  very  feiest 
whiting  either  wetted  with  i^irits  or  dry.  Pol^  nith 
the  hand  and  soft  leather.  The  longer  plate  is  rubbed  the 
brighter  it  will  look.  Brush  the  powder  carefully  from 
all  the  carved  places.  Plated  goods  should  be  kept  in 
thick  brown  paper,  in  a  box,  and  the  interstices  filled  up 
with  dried  bran,  never  be  allowed  to  get  damp  nor  dirty, 
n<x  be  rubbed  more  than  can  be  avoided.  Spirit  of  vdae, 
or  strong  spirits,  is  the  best  thing  to  clean  them  with. 
When  candlesticks  are  smeared  witli  wax  or  grease,  do  not 
^crape,  but  pour  boiling  water  on  the  parts  before  cleaning 


MIBCKLLAIXBOVS  KBCBIPTS.  635 

theiB.     HaTe  bniflhes  of  soft  texture  and  difFerent  siae&for 
plate. 

1241.  To  ekan  P^wUr  Vessels  and  Tin  G&wrs.  —  Keep 
these  always  free  of  damp  by  wiping  inside  and  drying 
them  before  the  fire  after  tiiey  are  used.  Polish  with  the 
finest  whiting  and  sweet  oil,  not  water. 

1242.  DirecUona  for  cleaning  Briiannia-Mekd  Choda^^^ 
Take  a  pieee  of  fine  woollen  cloth ;  upon  this  put  as  much 
sweet  oil  as  will  prevent  its  rubbing  dry  ;  —  with  this  rub 
them  well  on  erery  part-^  then  wipe  them  smartly  widi  a 
aoft  dry  linen  rag  until  they  are  quite  clean,  and  rub  them 
up  with  soft  wash-leather  and  whiting.  Tills  «mple 
method  will  preserve  the  colour  as  long  as  the  articles 
endure.  —  Oht.  Washing  them  in  boiling  water  and  soap, 
just  before  they  are  rubbed  with  wash-leather  and  whiting, 
would  take  off  the  oil  efFectualiy,  and  make  the  carving 
look  brighter. 

1243.  To  preserve  Gilding  on  lAutreSy  6^,  —  In  summer 
it  may  be  covered  with  slips  of  gold-colouved  tissue-paper, 
or  gold-coloured  leno.  Never  rub  gilding.  Use  the  bel- 
lows and  a  long  soft  hair-brush  ;  or,  if  this  will  not  do,  a 
pieee  of  wadding  or  some  ootton-wool.  Frames  properly 
giH  will,  howeiRsr,  stand  cleaning  with  hot  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine, applied  with  sponge.  The  whole  frame  or  lustre 
may  be  covered  with  gold-coloured  leno. 

1244.  To  dean  LooHng-Gbutes  and  Ptate-Glaas.-^WMh 
with  warm  water  and  sponge ;  then  weieAi  with  spirits,  and 
dust  the  glass  with  powder-Uue  in  a  rag,  and  rub  it  up 
with  a  piece  of  soft  oalioo,  and  afterwards  with  itn  old  silk 
handkerchief. 

1245.  To  wash  Wine-Deeantera^^^VBe  lukewarm  water, 
a  few  bits  of  soap,  and  a  little  pearl-ashes,  with  sponge 
tied  to  the  end  of  a  stick  to  rub  off  the  crust  that  forms 
on  the  glass.  Rinse  and  dry  them  thoroughly,  if  stop- 
pers are  fixed,  dip  a  towel  in  hot  water,  and  wrap  it 
round  the  neck  of  the  bottles.  Repeat  this  till  they 
loosen  ;*  or  better,  drop  a  little  sweet  oil  on  the  necks  of 


*  We  owe  this  direction  to  Dr.  Hope's  Lectures  on  Chemistry  to  the 
ladies  of  Edinbuigh,  jet  it  is  not  infallible. 


(Ki6  CHAP.  IT. — ^MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

the  bottles,  and  leave  them  before  the  fire  to  expand,  when 
the  stopper  will  loosen. 

1246.  To  clean  Japanned  Goods.  —  Wash  with  sponge, 
using  soap  and  warm  water,  and  rub  up  with  a  dry  cloth. 
If  the  things  still  look  greasy,  dust  a  little  powder-blue, 
fine  whiting,  or  flour,  on  them,  and  rub  them  again.  Oil 
will  take  marks  out  of  paper  trays.  Tea-  Urns  onght  to 
be  well  dried,  rubbed  when  brought  from  the  table,  and 
icept  covered  with  a  woollen  cloth. 

1247.  To  get  Oil  out  of  Wood  and  Stone.  —  Mix  fuller's 
earth  with  soap-lees,  and  scour  the  places  repeatedly  with 
this. —  N.B.  Fuller's  earth  does  well  for  cleaning  veir 
dirty  passage  and  stair  carpets. 

1248.  To  take  Rust  out  of  Fire-irons. — Cover  with  sweet 
oil,  rubbing  it  hard  in,  and  next  day  rub  with  powder  of 
unslacked  lime  till  the  rust  is  removed,  or  emery  will  do 
very  well.     Rub  with  a  spongy  piece  of  wood. 

1249.  To  clean  China  and  Glass,  —  Use  pearl-ashes  or 
fuller's  earth  in  fine  powder,  rinse  in  fair  water,  and  polish 
the  things  welL 

1260.  To  take  Stains  out  of  Mourning  Dresses.  —  Boil  a 
handful  of  fig-leaves  in  two  quarts  of  water,  till  reduced 
to  a  pint.     Strain  and  apply  this  with  sponge.     Do^ubtfid, 

1260.*  To  clean  black  cmddark  Silk  Dresses, — -'Pick  them 
out,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Wash  out  next  day, 
fold,  and  squeeze  the  moisture  out ;  wipe  ofi^  what  remains, 
and  iron  on  the  wrong  side ;  or,  lay  it  on  a  table  and 
scour  with ^a^^  dissolved  in  water;  rinse  and  hang  on 
lines,  allowing  the  silk  to  drip  nearly  dry.  Then  iron  or 
mangle  it. 

1261.  An  excellent  Shoe-blacking, — Eight  ounces  of  ivory- 
black,  six  of  treacle,  two  of  spermaceti  or  sweet-oil, 
and  three  pints  of  coarse  vinegar  or  alegar  ;  a  quarter- 
ounce  of  vitriolic  acid  may  be  added.  These  things  must 
be  well  mixed.  The  vinegar  made  hot  should  be  poured 
over  the  other  ingredients,  or  the  composition  may  better 
be  boiled. 

1252.  Liquid  Japan  Blacking,  —  Mix  with  four  ounces 
of  ivory-black  a  large  spoonful  of  sweet  oil ;  then  put  to 
these  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  little  vinegar ;  make  a 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  687 

paste  of  the  blacking.  Add  a  half-ounce  of  sulphuric  and 
the  same  of  muriatic  acid,  and  nearly  a  pint  of  vinegar. 
Mix  them  well.  With  less  acid  the  polish  will  not  be  so 
bright,  but  it  will  be  more  safe  for  the  leather. 

1253.  Scalds  and  Burns. — The  cook  is  too  often  exposed 
to  accidents  of  this  kind.     Plunge  the  part  instantly  into 
cold  water,  which  renew  as  often  as  it  gets  heated.     If  the 
leg  or  arm  is  scalded,  the  stocking  or  sleeve  can  be  cut  up 
without  touching  the  injured  part,  and  gently  removed, 
as  the  instant  application  of  water  will  have  prevented 
blistering  or  the  stocking  sticking  to  the  skin.     There  are 
many  remedies,  and  good  ones,  for  burns  ;  as  Gowland's 
Lotion,  oil  of  turpentine,  spirit  of  wine,  and  vinegar.    And 
in  every  house  there  is  generally  fine  cotton  wool,  while 
the  cook  has  her  dredging-box.      Dredge  the  injured  part 
thickly  with  flour,  which  is  perhaps,  after  water  has  al- 
layed the  pain,  the  best  remedy,  as  the  flour  may  be  tied  on 
with  a  cloth,  and  left  till  the  n6w  skin  forms. — N.B.  Every 
cook,  while  by  an  open  fire,  should  wear  a  very  wide  and 
thick  worsted   apron.      While  swaying  her  body,  lifting 
oiF  and  on  heavy  stew-pots,  it  is  surprising  that  her  in- 
flammable cotton  apron  so  often  escapes  the  flames.      If 
the  cook  cuts  herself,  she  should  let  the  wound,  if  a  slig^ht 
one,  bleed  freely  for  a  while,  and  sponge  or  soak  the  part 
in  tepid  water.       Then  gently  press  its  edges  together, 
sponge  up  the  blood,  and  bind  on  a  pledget  of  lint  dipped 
in  water,  which  is  to  be  fastened  with  strips  of  adhesive 
plaster,  and  allowed  to  remain  for  three  or  four  days  till 
the  edges  adhere. 

1264.  To  extinguish  fire  in  Female  Dresses,  —  So  many 
fatal  accidents  arise  from  light  dresses  catching  fire,  that 
every  Manual  intended  for  females  should  contain  the 
following  necessary  cautions :  —  1 .  Let  it  be  early  and 
diligently  impressed  upon  the  mind  of  every  female,  that 
ilame  uniformly  tends  upwards  ;  that  every  article  of  her 
dress  will  consume  much  more  rapidly  if  held  upright,  than 
if  laid  along  the  floor ;  and  that  her  life  may  depend  on  her 
presence  of  mind,  should  her  clothes  unhappily  catch  fire. 
2.  Give  instant  alarm  by  pulling  the  bell,  (^ which  is  gene- 
rally near  the   fireplace,)  by  ^screaming,  or   any   other 


038  CHAP.  IV.— MUCBLLAHBOVS  RBCRIFTS. 

meMis ;  bnty  if  possible,  avoid  opening  the  door  ;  for  both  the 
movement  of  the  figoie,  and  the  current  of  air  admitted, 
will  increase  the  rapidity  of  the  fbunes.  3.  The  alarm 
may  be  given  while  the  female  is  at  the  same  instant 
Hitting  down  by  the  nig»  attempting  to  tear  off  the  articles 
of  dress  which  are  on  fire,  and  rolling  heraelf  in  the  mg 
or  carpet.  If  the  latter  is  nailed  down,  she  may  easily, 
when  on  the  floor,  tear  it  up.  She  may  also  catch  at  any 
piece  of  baise,  or  vessel  of  water  wxthia  reach ;  and,  if 
very  active,  may  even  turn  her  clothe#over  her  head 
and  thus  arrest  the  progress  of  the  flames.  .  4.  The 
most  ready  and  effectual  anistanee  a  spectator  in  general 
can  give,  will  be  US  turn  the  clothes  of  the  sufferer  over 
her  heady  and  hold  them  firm  thus,  tilt  wrappers,  cold 
water,  &e.,  are  procured.  5.  A  man  may  quickly  strip 
off  his  coat  and  wrap  it  round  the  female.  O.  Liet  the 
BuffiBorer,  even  if  slie  fail  to  pull  away  the  burning  articles, 
or  to  extinguish  the  fire  by  rolling  on  the  fioor,  and 
wrapping  herself  on  the  hearth-rug,  (which  is  generalfy 
always  ready,)  still  protect  her  bosom  and  face,  hy  k>wer- 
ing  her  face  and  croesing  her  hands  and  arms  over  her 
breast. 


APPENDIX, 

CONTAINING 

A    COMPREHENSIVE    TREATISE 

ON 

DOMESTIC  BREWING. 


IMPLEMENTS  NECESSARY  FOR  DOMESTIC  BREWING. 

TBft  BOIUOL 

The  object  of  this  brief  treatise  is  to  enable  the  domestic  brewer 
to  make  excellent  ale  with  apparatus  as  little  expensive  as  pos- 
sible. The  boiler,  for  many  reasons,  should  be  made  of  copper 
and  not  iron.  It  will  cost  more  at  first,  ^ut  will  alwavs  bring  at 
least  half  its  original  value  as  old  metal ;  it  is  less  liable  to  acoi- 
deiits,^  more  easily  cleaned,  and  requires  less  ftiel.  The  size  of  the 
boiler  must  be  regulated  by  the  quantity  of  ale  or  beer  required 
to  be  made  at  a  time.  If  not  less  than  a  hogshead  of  each  is 
wished,  a  boiler  capable  of  containing  80  gallons  would  be  most 
nsefhl,  as  the  whole  wort  for  the  ale,  and  afterwards  for  the  beer, 
could  be  got  ready  for  each,  at  one  boiling ;  but  this  would  re- 
quire all  the  other  brewing  implements  on  a  similar  scale,  which 
in  many  families  would  be  found  inconvenient  as  well  as  expen- 
sive. A  boiler  capable  of  containing  from  45  to  50  gallons  vnll 
therefore  in  general  suit  best.  It  wiU  boil  the  worts  for  a  half- 
hogshead  of  strong  ale  at  oucc,  and  the  wort  for  the  table-beer, 
whea  a  hogshead  is  wanted,  may  be  easily  managed  at  two  boil- 
ings. 

-  A  pipe  of  one  inch  and  three  quarters  diameter,  on  a  level  with 
the  bottom  of  the  boiler,  should  project  firom  it  about  two  inches 
beyond  the  brick-work  in  which  it  Ss  built ;  and  on  this  a  ttraight 
cock  or  tap  must  be  fixed  while  the  brewing  is  going  on  ;  if  bent, 
the  hops  would  not  get  through.  To  prevent  the  liquor  from 
being  spilt  in  running  through  the  horizontal  tap,  a  pUe€  of  ^n- 
Tass  about  twelve  inches  square  may  be  rolled  twice  round  the 
extremity  of  the  tap,  and  tUlowed  to  hang  dovm  into  the  sieve 
through  which  the  contents  of  the  boiler  are  strained  before  going 
iuto  the  cooler.  A  kind  of  canvass  tube  is  thus  formed,  which 
breaks  the  force  of  the  horizontal  pressure. 


640  DOMBSnC  BRBWIMG. 

As  it  U  desinble  at  all  times  to  know  what  'wort  is  in  tin 
boiler,  a  gaage-stiok  to  determine  the  qnantity  may  be  formed 
thus :  —  Pour  into  the  copper  two  gallons  of  water,  and  at  a  par- 
tionlar  part  of  it,  which  you  have  marked,  put  down  the  gange- 
stiek,  and  where  the  snrftboe  of  the  water  outs  it,  mark  2;  pat  in 
other  two  gallons,  and  in  the  same  manner  mark  4,  going  on  thus 
till  you  have  filled  the  copper  and  formed  the  graduated  gaage- 
stick.    Let  it  be  marked  No.  1. 

The  roof  of  the  brew-honse  should  be  as  high  as  possible, 
and  should  have  a  ventilator  above  the  boiler  to  let  the  steam 
esoape. 

THB  lUSH-TUB. 

The  cheapest  way  to  procure  a  mash-tub  is  to  purchase  a  good 
sherry-pipe,  which  will  contain  about  108  or  1 10  gallons,  and  luj 
be  got  for  ten  or  twelve  shillings.  Cut  off  about  one-fourth  of 
the  length  of  the  cask ;  and  the  larger  portion  will  form  a  veiy 
good  mash-tub,  capable  of  containing  about  80  gallons,  while  the 
smaller  tub  will  contain  nearly  30  gallons,  and  make  an  under- 
back  or  cooler.  A  wooden  hoop,  about  two  inches  in  bi^uitl, 
must  be  nailed  inside  round  the  bottom  of  the  mash-tub,  to  sup- 
port a  false  bottom.  The  false  bottom  should  be  made  of  sevenl 
pieces  of  wood,  to  prevent  warping,  and  must  be  perforated  with 
small  holes  very  close  te  each  other.  The  vacant  space  between 
it  and  the  real  bottom  may  be  about  two  inches.  Both  the  falst 
bottom  and  the  hoop  should  be  moveable ;  but,  while  maeh- 
ing,  the  hoop  must  be  slightly  fixed  to  the  sides  of  the 
mash-tub  by  small  nails.  In  the  bottom  of  the  mash-tub  s 
straight  tap  must  be  fixed  near  the  side  to  draw  otf  the  worts 
when  ready ;  but  great  care  must  be  taken  that  the  end  of  the 
tap  fixed  iu  the  mash-tub  does  not  rise  above  the  real  bottom,  or 
it  will  prevent  the  worts  from  running  off  into  what  is  termed  the 
underback.  When  mashing  is  to  commence,  the  mash-tun  must 
be  placed  upon  a  gawntree  of  sufficient  height  to  allow  the  under- 
back  to  be  placed  below  the  tap  in  the  bottom.  It  should  not, 
if  possible,  be  placed  near  the  wall,  as  the  persons  employed  in 
mashing  could  not  use  the  mashing-sticks  with  freedom.  A  set  of 
stent  steps  of  a  proper  height  will  be  required  to  enable  the  per- 
son mashing  to  handle  the  mashing-stick  or  oar  freely  ;  and  also 
that  he  may  stand  sufficiently  high  to  stir  the  wort  in  the  boiler. 

The  Mcuhing-ttiek,  or  Oar  as  it  is  termed  by  the  brewer,  is 
formed  by  an  ash  pole  or  handle  about  six  feet  long,  at  the  ex- 
tremity of  which  is  a  frame  through  which  the  pole  passes.  This 
frame  is  about  twelve  inches  in  length,  narrower  at  the  bottom 
than  the  top,  and  shaped  like  an  inverted  shovel.  Five  or  six 
spars  go  across  the  frame,  which  has  thus  something  like  the 
appearance  of  a  ladder,  with  the  rounds  very  close  to  each  other. 
It  is  with  the  mashing-stick  that  the  malt  is  thoroughly  mixed 
with  the  water  ;  and  the  interstices  between  the  spars  or  rounds 
of  the  oar  allow  the  mash  to  be  shaken  through,  when  a  mass  of 


DOMESnC  BBBWINV.  641 

only  half-wetted  malt  is  lifted  <fisBm  the  heap  in  the  maah^^ton. 
It  is  well  to  have  two  of  these  mashiag-stioks,  in  case  one  should 
break  while  the  operation  is  going  en. 

.  A  gauge-stiok  mast  be  made  for  the  masb-tun  to  meaaare  the 
quantity  of  water  in  it.  It  is  made  in  a  similar  manner  to  that 
Ibr  the  boiler;  and  should  be  masked  No.  2.  Gauge-sticks 
flhould  also  be  made  for  the  underback  And  fermenting  tuns. 

THE  UNDBRBACK-^COOLB^fi — ^FERMBNTING  TUNS— CASKS. 

Thb  underbaok  and  eoolers,  which  cost  least,  and  ajre  always, 
besides,  of  use  in  a  &mily,  are  a  set  of  good  clean  tubs.  One  has 
aJready  been  got  from  the  sherry  pipe,  along  with  the  mash-tun, 
and  with  good  management  the  .brewing  of  a  half-hogshead  of 
•iOy  and  a  half-hogshead  or  even  a  barrel  of  beer(36  gallons^) 
may  be  acoomplished  with  thjree  or  four  more  large  sound  tubs, 
not  too  deep. 

FetmaUmg  Tun$,  4fv. — If  it  is  not  intended  to  make  at  once 
moire  than  a  half-he^head,  or  a  barrel  (36  gallons,)  of  strong  ale, 
and  an  equal  quantity  of  table-beer,  only  two  fermenting  tuns, 
eapable  of  containing  42  gallons  each,  will  be  xequired.  A  half 
hogshead  tun  mi|^t  also  be  useful  to  ferment  a  kilderkin  (18 
gallons,)  or  a  qaarter^hogshead  of  ale  or  table-beer.  Casks  will 
likewise  be  necessary,  of  the  size  of  the  brewings  it  is  intended 
to  make ;  and  one  or  two  of  half  the  size,  in  case  you  haye  occasion 
to  rack  «iff  one  of  the  larger  casks,  and  cannot  allow  it  sufficient 
time  to  clear  itself  before  being  used.  When  the  ale  is  for 
draught  ale,  it  is  best  to  put  it  into  small  casks.  For  domestic 
brewing  it  would  be  adyisable  to  have  the  bung-holes  sufficiently 
large  to  allow  the  hand  and  arm  to  go  in  to  dean  the  casks. 

Besides  these,  two  pails  are  necessary,  capable  of  containing 
three  gallons  each,  with  a  mark  inside  at  the  height  of  two  gal- 
ions  and  a  half,  and  a  piggin  or  small  wooden  Ycssel  with  an  up- 
right long  handle,  to  contain  about  a  gallon,  which  will  be  neces- 
sary to  lift  the  worts  from  the  underback  into  the  coolers,  and 
for  many  other  purposes. 

thb  SJlOCBAROMXTBR  AMD  THBRMOMBTmL 

Without  the  aid  of  these  instruments  there  is  no  positive  cer- 
tainty that  good  ale  oan  be  made  even  from  the  best  materials. 
The  Thermometer  is  necessary  to  ascertain  when  the  water  is  at 
the  proper  temperature  to  receive  the  malt,  and  also  the  degree 
of  heat  at  which  fermentation  should  commence.  It  is  likewise 
necessary,  with  the  aid  of  the  saccharometer,  to  let  us  know  the 
exact  strength  of  the  worts.  An  instrnment  of  this  kind  for 
biewing,  making  wines,  and  other  purposes,  such  as  boiling  sugar, 
will  cost  about  six  shillings. 

The  Sa^oharomeUr  is  an  instrument  to  determine  the  specific 
gravities  of  bodies  heavier  than  water:  in  brewing  it  is  used  to 
ascertain  the  quantity  of  saocharine  matter  in  the  wort,  or  how 
much  saccharine  extract  it  holds  in  solution.  The  best  instru- 
ment of  this  kind  is  Allan's  Saccharometer,  invented,  we  believe, 

2s 


642  DOMESTIC  BREWING. 

by  Dr.  Thonuoa  of  GlMgow,  one  of  the  gentlemen  selectM  hf 
gOTemmeni  to  determiue  the  diifereDces  in  vslne  between  the 
bftrleys  and  malts  of  England  and  Scotland.     As  this  instmment 
is,  howoTor,  high-priced  (three  guineas  and  a  half,)  the  home- 
brewer  may  procure  RoUrU'  Saeoharomster,  a  cheap  glass  ia- 
strument  manufactured  by  Peter  Steyenson  (successor  to  Allan,) 
phileeophical  instrument   maker,  Lothian    Street^    £kiinboi)g]i, 
and  sold  by  W.  Cary,  Strand,  London.    The  price  of  this  sacebt- 
rometer,  with  a  japanned  tin  sample^tube,  is  only  six  shillings; 
and  up  to  130  it  indicates  the  strength  of  the  wort  perfectly  well 
for  all  the  purposes  of  domestic  brewing.     Directions  how  to 
manage  it  are  given  with  the  instrument.    There  is  only  one  eri! 
attending  the  use  of  this  cheap  instrument,  —  the  liquor  must  be 
of  the  temperature  of  60*"  on  the  thermometer  before  the  exact 
gravity  can  be  ascertained.    But  this  can  easily  be  accomplished 
by  putting  a  portion  of  the  wort  into  the  sample-tube  of  the 
saocharometer,  and  immersing  it  in  cold  water,  tiU  it  fall  to  60". 

Specific  gravity  is  the  comparative  weight  of  any  body  in  re- 
spect of  the  weight  of  an  equal  bulk  of  another  body.  A  cohif 
foot  of  pure  water  at  the  temperature  of  60**  weighs  so  nearly 
1000  ounces,  that  it  is  found  practically  useful  to  call  it  of  that 
weight,  and  assume  it  as  a  standard  for  ascertaining  the  specilo 
weight  of  liquors  used  by  the  brewer  and  distiller.  If  the  sae- 
charometer,  upon  being  immersed  in  wort,  rises  till  the  surfaee 
of  the  liquor  cuts  the  graduated  stem  at  98,  this  Indicates  that  a 
cubic  foot  of  the  wort  weighs  1098  ounces, — that  is,  98  ounces 
more  than  a  cubic  foot  of  pure  water ;  and  this  additional  wei^t) 
or  gravity  as  it  is  termed,  arises  from  the  saccharine  extract 
which  the  liquor  holds  in  solution.  But  the  1000,  which  should 
denote  the  weight  of  water,  is  never  taken  into  account  by  the 
brewer  in  speaking  of  his  gravities,  and  therefore  zero  (o)  marks 
the  gravity  of  water  on  the  saocharometer,  and  is  the  starting- 
point  on  the  scale  from  which  we  begin  to  reckon,  going  on  ftom 
1  to  130. 

These  appear  to  be  all  the  implements  necessary  for  home- 
brewing  on  a  moderate  scale,  and  the  operation  may  be  carried 
on  in  any  washing-house  which  contains  a  copper- boiler  of  the 
size  mentioned.  ^^_____ 

MALT,  SUGAR,  WATER,  &c. 

Malt  varies  much  in  quality.  The  best  malt  will  yield  from 
24  to  28  pounds  of  saccharine  matter  per  bushel,  while  other 
kinds  will  not  yield  20  pounds.  The  Domestic  Brewer  must  en- 
deavour to  procure  the  best  pale  malt  ;  and  he  may  calculate 
upon  it  In  general  yielding  about  25  pounds  of  saccharine  extract 
per  bushel  ;  but  this  he  will  ascertain  in  the  course  of  his  opera- 
tions by  the  saocharometer.  The  malt  should  be  ground  from  24 
to  48  hours  before  it  is  used. 

If  a  bushel  of  the  best  pale  malt  yield  on  an  average  25  ponnds 


DOMESTIC  BREWING.  648 

of  extract,  —  a  quarter  (eight  bushels)  must  yield  ^00,  and  a  boll 
4>fsix  bushels,  150  pounds.  When  in  brewing  from  a  certain 
quantity  of  malt,  then,  we  have  extracted  in  the  first  and  second 
worts  the  principal  strength  of  the  malt,  and  the  third  running  is 
too  weak  for  table-beer,  the  strength  may  be  increased  to  any  ex- 
tent by  the  addition  of  raw  sugar.  A  pound  of  sugar,  when  put 
into  a  gallon  of  water,  yields  a  gravity  of  34.  It  is  therefore 
easy  to  raise  your  wort  to  any  degree  of  strength  you  think  desi- 
rable. If,  for  instance,  upon  applying  the  saccharometer  you  find 
the  strength  of  the  last  running  from  the  malt  to  be  only  24,  by 
allowing  a  half-pound  of  sugar  per  gallon  you  raise  the  gravity  to 
41,  —  the  sugar  giving  an  additional  gravity  of  17  ;  or  if  the 
wort  be  32,  and  you  apply  a  quarter-pound,  you  raise  the  gravity 
by  84  to  nearly  41  as  before. 

It  will  be  observed  that  in  a  number  of  the  receipts  subjoined 
the  use  of  raw  sugar  is  recommended.  For  the  protection  of  the 
agricultural  interest,  and  the  revenue  derived  from  the  malt* 
duty,  the  public  brewer  is  prohibited  the  use  of  sugar  under  a 
severe  penalty ;  but  there  are  no  restrictions  on  the  domestic 
brewer,  —  and  there  can  be  none.  Were  he  allowed,  the  public 
brewer  would  frequently  use  sugar  to  help  up  his  gravities  ;  but 
at  the  present  price  of  this  article  he  cannot  afford  to  do  so  to 
any  extent.  A  quarter  of  malt  will  yield  200  pounds  of  saccha- 
rine extract,  which  will  impart  as  much  gravity  as  200  pounds 
^  of  sugar.  But  the  quarter  of  malt  will  not  cost  the  public  brewer 
I  who  makes  his  own  malt  above  £2,  10s.,  while  200  pounds  of 
'  sugar,  though  much  reduced  in  price,  will  cost  him  nearly  double 
'  that  sum.  This  is  certainly  prohibition  enough  without  penalties. 
^  But  the  home-brewer  is  much  less  able  to  manage  the  gravity 

'        of  his  worts  than  the  public  brewer  ;  and  the  use  of  sugar  is 
'        therefore  of  great  importance  to  him.     It  besides  greatly  im- 
'        proves  the  quality  of  the  last  runnings  from  the  mash,  by  restor- 
I        ing  to  them  saccharine  matter,  of  which  they  have  been  almost 
'        entirely  deprived  by  the  strong-ale  wort  ;  for  when  the  gravity  of 
the  last  running  is  very  low,  the  extract  is  more  mucilaginous 
than  saccharine.     But,  indeed,  sugar  applied  in  moderate  quan- 
I        tity  greatly  improves  all  kinds  of  malt  liquors.    Professor  Dono- 
'        van  prefers  even  ale  and  table-beer  made  entirely  from  sugar. 
He  Sitys,  "  There  is  a  purity  of  taste  belonging  to  it  quite  different 
from  the  indescribable  jumble  of  tastes  so  perceptible  in  common 
ales  ;  aud  a  light  sharpness,  combined  with  tenuity,  which  is 
'         more  agreeable  than  the  glutinous  mucilaginous  softness  of  even 
'         the  best  ales.     But  it  has  one  advantage  which  places  it  above 
'         all  competition  ;  and  that  is  its  lightness  on  the  stomach.     This, 
when  compared  with  the  sickly  heaviness  of  malt  ale,  is  really 
remarkable.'' 

In  short,  to  those  who  wish  light,  plea-sant  ale  or  table-beer, 
which  can  be  very  easily  managed  in  the  brewing,  we  heartily 
recommend  the  partial  use  of  raw  sugar,  —  to  those  who  study 


G44  DOMESTIC  BKSwnrd. 

•o*iiomy»  and  we  Bcit  p«itieiiiar  abonl  liigh  or  Urw  grarities,  u 
aUditional  bushel  of  malt,  which  eo8ts  onljr  78.  6d^  will  go  as  fu* 
M  25  pottnds  of  sagmr,  whieh  will  eoet  niiioh  more. 

The  followiBg  rule  will  be  found  nsefnl :  — 

To  ascertain  the  quantity  of  sugar  neoessary  to  raise  wort  t* 
any  specified  gravity  :  — Subtract  the  gravity  of  the  wort,  as  as- 
certained by  the  sacohaiometer,  from  the  particular  gravity  to 
which  it  is  to  be  raised  ;  multiply  ^e  difference  by  the  number 
of  galloBB  of  the  wort ;  divide  the  prodnct  by  94,  the  gravity  aod 
the  quotient  will  be  the  number  of  pounds  of  sugar  required. 

ExAMPLB  i.  If  the  gravity  of  the  wort  is '93,  How  many  poinds 
of  sugar  are  required  to  raise  20  galleas  to  tiM  gravity  of  115! 

115—93  «  22  X  20  «  Vf  »  IS  pounds  of  sugar  nearly. 

II.  How  much  sugar  is  required  to  raise  90  -gallons  of  wort  tf 
the  gravity  of  51  to  the  gravity  of  74 1 

74>-51  as  23  X  30  a>  W  >»  20poaadfl  nearly. 

A  bushel  of  the  best  pale  malt  should  yidd  about  26  pounds  tf 
sacdharine  matter,  or  extract  for  brewing  ;  and  each  pound  ff 
this  extract  will  raise  a  gallon  of  water  io  a  grayity  of  34.  If, 
therefore,  IAm  whole  saccharine  matter  could  be  extracted  from » 
bushel  of  malt  by  25  gallons  of  water,  it  would  yield  a  vrort  «f 
34  gravity,  —  if  by  124  gallons,  the  gravity  would  be  9B,  and  sd 
on.  Hence,  we  deduce  that  34  multiplied  by  25,  or  850,  is  the 
amount  of  gravity  which  can  be  imparted  by  a  bu^el  of  malt 
If,  then«  it  is  wished  to  ascertain  how  much  saccharine  matter  r^ 
mains  in  a  mash  after  you  have  drawn  a  quantity  of  wort  ftron 
it  of  a  certain  gravity,  it  may  be  done  thusT — If  you  have  raaeM 
four  bushels  of  the  best  malt,  multiply  850  by  4  and  you  haw 
3400,  the  total  amount  of  gravity  that  can  be  extracted  from  the 
malt.  If,  then,  you  have  drawn  off  30  gallons  at  a  gravity  of  9^ 
multiply  90  by  30,  and  you  have  2700  of  gravity  already  ex- 
tracted. Subtract  this  f^om  3400,  the  remainder,  700  of  gravity, 
is  the  whole  saccharine  matter  you  can  draw  from  the  mash.  K 
you  wish  to  make  20  gallons  of  table-beer,  divide  700  by  20, 
and  you  have  35  for  the  strength  of  your  table-beer  wort.  It 
may  not  be  exactly  so  much,  for  the  quality  of  the  malt  varies 
•greatly,  and  much  depends  on  the  management  of  the  mashing ; 
but  this  is  the  principle  upon  which  to  calculate.  Brewers  reckon 
Ihat  a  pound  of  this  saccharine  extract  yields  a  gravity  of  36,— 
not  34  as  we  have  assumed.  This  would  increase  the  amount  of 
gravity  which  could  be  imparted  by  a  bushel  of  malt  to  900,  in- 
stead of  850.  They  may  be  right ;  but  what  yon  gain  in  this 
way  (one-eighteenth)  may  be  lost  by  your  not  being  able  to  draw 
so  many  pounds  of  extract  as  they  do  from  the  malt.  The  saccha- 
rometo*  will,  however,  keep  you  neaiiy  correct. 

The  water  used  in  brewing  should  always  be  soft.  Rain- 
water, when  it  can  be  had  perfectly  pure,  will  produce  not  only 
a  stronger  extract  firom  the  malt,  but  will  yield  it  in  a  larger 
qaantity.    River-water  is  better  than  most  of  that  which  is  drawn 


DOHB0T1C  BREWING.  645 

f^om  Bunk  wells.  When  soft  water  cannot  be  procured,  expose 
what  yott  have  to  the  influence  of  the  air  for  some  days  before 
using  it. 

As  the  size  of  the  mash-tun  (about  80  gallons,)  and  the  boiler 
(about  50  gallons,)  mentioned  in  pages  639  and  640,  will  more 
easily  manage  a  boll  of  malt  of  six  bu^els  than  a  quarter  of 
eight,  our  first  directions  ehaXi  be  how  to  brew  ale  and  beer  from 
six  bushels  of  malt. 


HOW  TO  MANAGE  THE  BREWING  OF  ONE  BOLL  OR 

SIX  BUSHELS  OF  MALT. 

I.  To  brew  from  six  BwiktU  ofMalt  a  Hcdf-hogshead  of  Strong 
Jtle,  a  HtUf-hogshec^  of  Middle  Ale,  and  a  Quarter-hogsheafd 
of  Tabie^beer ;  using  Sugar  along  with  ike  Malt, 

Bb  suire  that  the  malt  is  of  the  best  pale  kind,  and  that  it  has 
nat  been  dried  at  a  high  temperature,  nor  ground  above  three 
days.      Have   the  mash-tub  perfectly  clean,  the  hoop  nailed 
slightly  at  the  bottom  of  it,  and  the  false  bottom  laid  upon  the 
hoop.    Fix  the  straight  cock  or  tap  in  the  bottom  of  the  mash- 
tub,  and  be  careful  that  it  does  not  rise  in  the  smallest  degree 
above  the  inner  surface  of  the  real  bottom,  or  the  wort  will  not 
ajl  run  of.    Hare  your  copper  full  of  boiling  water,  and  put 
44  gallons  into  the  mash-tub,  with  5  or  6  gallons  of  cold  water, 
to  bring  the  temperature  down  to   182*  on  the  thermometer. 
The  six  bushels  of  malt  must  then  be  strewed  into  the  mash- 
tub  by  one  person,  while  another  mixes  it  carefully  with  the 
making-stick  or  oar,  that  it  may  be  properly  separated  and 
thoroughly  blended  with  the  water.    This  operation  wiU  take 
iirom  thirty  to  forty  minutes.    After  the  mashing  is  completed, 
strew  &om  a  quarter  to  a  half-peck  of  the  grist,  or  malt,  on  the 
mash.    This  will  form  a  kind  of  coating  or  paste  over  it,  and 
help  to  keep  in  the  heat.     Put  the  cover  then  on  the  mash- 
tub,  a  blanket  over  the  cover,  and  the  sacks  from  which  the 
malt  was  taken  over  all.     Every  means  must  be  used  to  keep 
the  mash  as  hot  as  possible,  and  to  prevent  the  steam  from 
escaping.    There  are  now  in  the  mash-tun  6  bushels  of  malt  and 
about  50  gallons  of  water,  being  rather  more  than  8  gallons  of 
water  to  each  bushel  of  malt. 

The  boiler  is  again  filled  with  water,  which  this  time  must 
be  heated  to  190*.  Let  the  mash  remain  covered  from  two  to 
three  hours,  after  which  turn  the  tap  in  the  bottom  of  the  mash- 
tun,  partially  only  at  first,  and  let  some  of  the  wort  ruu  into  a 
pail,  which  must  be  returned  into  the  mash- tun  till  the  running 
is  perfectly  clear.  The  wort  may  then  be  allowed  to  run  into 
the  underback,  the  tap  being  gradually  turned  fully  round. 
From  the  50  gallons  of  water  put  into  the  mash-tun,  not  more 
than  30  will  run  into  the  underback,  the  malt  absorbing  nearly 


M5  DOMESTIC  BREWIKO. 

three  gallons  and  a  half  per  busbel.    The  heat  of  the  wort  when 
H  runs  fh>m  the  tap  ehonld  be  from  145**  to  152*^. 

When  the  tap  has  been  kept  running  fur  some  time,  and  the 
Surface  of  the  bed  of  the  mash  begins  to  appear,  yon  must  be- 
gin to  sparge*  in  water  at  the  temperature  of  190%  and  continue 
always  to  sparge  in  as  the  surface  appears,  the  tap  in  the  mean- 
time being  kept  running,  till  the  number  of  gallons  you  require 
for  the  ale  has  been  percolated  through  the  mash.     The  firsi 

44  gallons  of  worts  must  be  set  aside  for  the  half-hogshead  of 
•trong  ale;  the  next  40  gallons  is  for  the  half-hogshead  of  middle 
ale;  after  which  the  tap  may  be  stopped,  and  the  table-beer 
wort  allowed  to  remain  in  the  mash.  The  24  gallons  of  water 
sparged  in  for  the  table-beer  may  be  at  the  temperature  of 
195l°.  The  quantity  of  water  which  it  will  be  necessary  to 
sparge  on  the  mash  for  the  first  and  second  ales  vrill  he  54  gal- 
lons; besides  the  24  gallons  for  table-beer. 

By  the  time  yon  have  sparged  on  the  mash  about  30  gallons 
your  strong-ale  wort  will  be  ready  for  boiling;  and  if  you  have 
only  one  copper  yon  must  bring  the  water  in  it  to  boil,  then 
damp  the  fire  with  wet  ashes,  throw  open  the  door  of  the  fa^ 
nace,  and  run  into  one  of  the  fermenting  tuns  about  fifty  gal- 
lons of  boiling  water  to  continue  the  sparging.  To  prevent  the 
copper  from  being  injured,  the  moment  the  water  is  run  out  of 
it  pour  in  the  strong-ale  wort,  the  strength  of  which  you  have 
preyionsly  ascertained  by  the  saccharometer.  It  will  require 
about  44  gallons  of  this  wort  to  yield  30  gallons  after  being 
boiled  and  cooled;  for  about  two  gallons  will  be  absorbed  by 
the  hops,  and  one-fourth  of  the  remainder  will  go  off  by  eyapo- 
ration.  When  the  wort  in  the  copper  attains  the  temperature 
of  200°,  just  before  it  begins  to  boil,  put  into  it  two  pounds  of 
the  best  East  Kent  hops,  well  rubbed  and  separated  with  the 
hand.    Clear  up  the  fire,  and  make  the  wort  boil  briskly  for 

45  minutes,  stirring  it  well  during  the  operation.  The  more 
quickly  the  wort  boils,  the  sooner  it  will  break  into  flakes  and 
fine  itself.  At  the  end  of  45  minutes  put  in  other  two  pounds 
of  the  hops,  separating  them  with  the  hand  as  before.  These 
are  only  to  boil  from  25  to  30  minutes.  By  this  method  the 
strength  of  the  first  parcel  of  hops  is  extracted;  while,  by  only 
the  partial  boiling  of  the  second,  their  aroma  is  retained,  which 
imparts  a  delicate  flavour  to  the  ale. 

*  Sparging.  —  To  sparge  is  to  sprinkle  the  hot  water  or  run  it  in  • 
shower  over  the  mash,  so  as  to  spread  it  at  once  over  the  whole  surface. 
This,  in  home-brewing, may  be  easily  accomplished  with  a  wooden  vesad, 
the  bottom  of  which  is  perforated  with  innumerable  small  holes.  While 
one  pours  the  hot  water  into  this  vessel,  the  other  moves  it  round  t^e 
mash-tun,  so  as  to  sprinkle  the  water  equally  over  the  whole  surface  of 
the  mash.  A  large  watering-pan  with  a  wooden  handle  (not  to  heat) 
will  serve  the  same  purpose  if  the  rose  is  turned  downwards  by  a  bend 
in  the  spout,  so  as  to  sprinkle  the  water  more  easily  upon  the  mash^ 


]>OMESTIC  BREWING*  647 

If  84  of  the  150  pounds  of  saccharine  matter  contained  in  the 
boll  of  malt  are  extracted  in  this  first  running  of  44  gallons, 
now  reduced  to  about  30  gallons  by  evaporation  and  absorption 
with    the  hops,  each  gallon  will  contain   about    2|   pounds; 
and  as  one  pound  of  extract  to  the  gallon  gives  a  gravity  of  34, 
the  2  J  pounds  will  yield  a  gravity  of  from  95  to  100.     To  ascer- 
tain its  exact  strength,  however,  before  drawing  off,  put  some 
of  the  wort  into  the  sample-tube  of  the  saccharometer,  immerse 
it  in  cold  water  till  it  cool  to  60**  on  the  thermometer,  and  try 
its  gravity  by  the  saccharometer.  If  a  greater  strength  is  wished 
than  the  saccharometer  indicates,  add  a  half-pound  of  raw  sugar 
per  gallon,  or  fifteen  pounds  to  the  contents  of  the  copper,  and 
the  wort  will  gain  an  additional  gravity  of  17.     Wort  of  a  gra- 
vity from  112  to  118  is  of  sufficient  strength  to  make  the  best 
family-ale, — equal  indeed  to  what  is  sold  by  the  brewers  of  the- 
far-famed  Edinburgh  ale  at  £6  per  hogshead. 

While  the  boiling  of  the  first  wort  has  been  going  on,  the 
second  wort  for  the  middle  ale  has  run  fi*om  the  mash-tun,  and 
is  now  in  the  underback;  its  stredgth  has  been  tried  with  the 
saccharometer  and  noted  down,  and  two  pailfuls  of  it  are  ready 
to  be  poured  into  the  boiler  the  moment  it  is  empty,  to  prevent 
Uie  copper  from  being  injured  by  the  fire. 

After  the  first  wort  has  boiled  from  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to 
an  hour  and  a  half,  and  been  treated  according  to  the  above 
directions,  the  fire  must  be  completely  damped  and  the  furnace- 
door  thrown  open.  The  piece  of  canvass  must  be  fixed  on  the 
straight  tap  of  the  boiler  as  directed  in  page  639,  and  must  be 
allowed  to  hang  down  into  a  large  hair-sieve,  placed  above  the 
tub  which  is  to  receive  the  wort,  in  order  to  keep  out  the  hops. 
Open  the  tap,  and  let  a  person  keep  stirring  the  wort  while  it 
runs  off,  to  prevent  the  hops  from  subsiding  to  the  bottom  of  the 
boiler. 

THE  MIDDLE  ALE. 

The  moment  the  copper  is  empty,  let  the  two  pailfuls  of  the 
second  wort  be  poured  into  it.  Put  in  the  rest  as  quickly  as 
possible,  and  put  into  the  copper  other  two  pounds  of  fresh  hops, 
reserving  the  hops  which  came  off  with  the  boiled  wort  for  the 
table-beer.  The  strong-ale  wort  must  now  go  into  the  coolers, 
and  should  not  exceed  in  depth  four  or  five  inches. 

Stir  up  the  fire,  and  let  the  second  wort  buil  briskly  for  one 
hour  and  a  half.  After  the  wort  has  boiled  one  hour,  ptit  in  a 
half  pound  of  fresh  hops,  and,  in  twenty  minutes  after  this,  cool 
gome  of  the  wort  to  60**,  and  try  its  strength  with  the  saccha- 
rometer. Should  it  stand  57  on  the  instrument, — that  is,  one 
pound  and  two-thirds  of  saccharine  matter  to  the  gallon,  or  50 
pounds  more  of  the  extract, — put  into  the  boiler  sugar  to  bring  it 
up  to  74.  If  there  are  30  gallons  of  wort,  15  pounds  of  sugar 
will  do  this.  After  the  sugar  has  been  boiled  a  few  minutes  with 
the  wort,  draw  off  the  contents  of  the  copper  as  before,  and  dis- 


648  DOMBBTIC  BBKWm^ 

tribute  it  in  the  eoolen.  This  shoald  mmke  ale  eqosl  in  etnagA 
to  that  which  is  sold  by  the  Edinbtirgli  brewers  ai  ^£3  per  hofi- 
heftd,  boty  from  the  addition  of  the  eogar^  lifter  aa4  m»>e  d^ 
cate  in  fiatonr. 

THB  TABLB  BEBK. 

Aa  soon  as  jou  hare  drawn  off  the  seeond  raanini^  frowt  Urn 
boiler,  poor  into  it  the  table-beer  wort,  haTini^  prerixmsly  tried 
its  strength  with  the  saeeharoneter ;  and  pnt  io  with  it  tbt 
four  pounds  of  hops  boiled  in  the  Ifarst  eepper.  It  must  boil 
two  hours.  If,  as  we  supposed,  84  povtids  of  the  aaeefaaBse 
Batter  were  extracted  from  the  malt  in  the  §m  wort,  and  50 
pounds  in  the  second,  (134  pounds,)  the  remaiBiBg  amodkaruu  m 
the  mash  will  amount  to  about  16  pounds,— -and  it  maj*  not  bt 
posdble  to  extract  all  this  in  the  process.  When  the  wort 
begins  to  boil,  make  five  or  six  gallons  of  it  te  percolate  througb 
the  24  poundif  of  boiled  hope  from  the  seeond  eepper,  to  es- 
tract  tiM  ale-wort  from  them.  Then  drain  these  hops  well,  awt, 
throwing  them  away,  return  the  strained  wort  to  tlie  eepper. 
ilfter  the  wort  has  boiled  in  all  an  hour  and  three  ^»ien^ 
cool  some  of  it  to  60%—try  its  strength  witk  the  saecharometer, 
■ad  add  sugar  to  raise  it  as  high  as  yon  wish.  The  strengtii 
of  the  wort  will  perhaps  not  be  more  than  ft«m  30  to  34,  and  a 
half-pound  of  sugar  per  gallon  wiU  give  an  additional  ipravity  of 
1 7,  which  will  raise  it  to  46  or  60.  If  tben  there  are  19  galiow 
in  the  eopper,  add  eight  pounds  of  sugaCL  This  will  form  a  light 
refreshing  drink  during  dinnsr,  and- when  yoo  are  net  iMdioedfiv 
the  Buddie  or  strong  ale. 

See  that  of  each  kind  of  ale  you  have  two  gaHena  more  tlum 
your  casks  will  contain  when  the  ale  is  put  into  them;  fbr  it  will 
continue  fsnuentingtwo  or  three  days,  or  loBger,'in  the  cafliEs;aBd 
a  good  deal  will  be  thrown  off  in  this  process,  which  must  be  sup- 
plied regularly  from  this  extra  quantity.  In  case  of  shorteem- 
ing  after  all,  it  is  well  to  hare  a  few  extra  gallons  of  the  table- 
beer.  You  can  then  fill  up  the  strong-ale  cask  with  the  middle 
ale,  and  the  nuddle-ale  cask  with  the  extra  table-beer. 

termbhtatioii. 

pROCUBB  a  gallon  of  bxewers'  best  strenff-^ile  yeast;  and  Ibr 
this  brewing  yon  will  need  three  fermenting  tans.     It  will  be 
best  to  hare  two  of  them  capable  of  eentaining  about  42  gallons 
each,  which  will  serre  the  purpose  of  fermenting  a  barrel  (36 
gallons)  should  it  ever  be  found  necessary.    A  tuit  capable  of 
containing  a  half-hogshead  will  serre  for  the  table-beer,  and 
will  afterwards  ferment  a  kUderkin  (18  gallons)  if  needfuk    As 
Roon  as  your  strong-ale  wort  is  cooled  to  85*,  take  out  about  a 
gallon  of  it,  and  pour  into  it  three  Bnglish  pints,  or  34  poBods 
of  the  yeast.     When  it  begins  to  ferment,  add  a  little  more 
wort,  and  a  Tigorous  fermentation  will  soon  take  place.    If  the 
weather  is  cool,  or  the  atmosphere  firom  40"  to  46%  eomawnce 
/*ermentation  as  soon  as  the  wort  is  cooled  to  76**.     Poor  the 


XDUB8TIG  BBJSWINO.  649 

Teast-mixtnre  all  over  the  inside  of  the  fefmeniing  tun,  as  far  up 
ms  the  wort  will  rise.  Turn  in  the  stroQg-al«  wort  now,  and. 
ineorporate  it  well  with  the  yeast;  after  which  coyer  up  the 
tun.  Follow  exactly  the  same  plan  with  the  middle^ale  wort, 
fermenting  as  before  with  3  English  pints  of  the  yeast.  Fer- 
ment the  16  gallons  of  table-beer  wort  at  the  temperature  of 
80**  with  one  English  pint  of  the  yeast.  You  have  one  English 
pint  of  the  yeast  remaining,  in  case  the  fermentation  in  any  of  the 
tuns  beoomes  languid. 

On  the  morning  after  the  worts  haye  been  put  into  the  tuns, 
a  the  fermentation  has  gone  on  smoothly,  the  ale-worts  should 
show  »  slight  white  cream»  Break  this  down  into  the  mass, 
stir  well  up  the  contents  of  the  tuns,  and  take  out  a  little  for 
exaarination.  The  saccharometer  should  show  a  decrease  of 
gnmtj,  and  the  thennometer  a  small  increase  oi  heat.  Examine 
tiie  tnns  again  in  the  evening,  and  should  the  fermentation  ap^ 
pear  rather  languid,  add  a  small  portion  of  yeast,  and  mix  it  up 
weU  with  the  mass*    On  the  second  morning,  if  fermentation  is 

Soing  en  well,  a  white  firothy  head,  something  like  a  cauli- 
ower,  should  appear  on  the  contents  of  the  tuns,  with  perhaps 
patches  of  dark-brown  yeast  on  its  surface.  Be  careful  to  remove 
these  patches,  or  they  will  impart  a  harsh  disagreeable  flavour 
to  the  ale.  Take  out  some  of  the  liquor  and  examine  it.  If  the 
saoeharometer  does  not  indicate  a  considerable  decrease  of  gra- 
vity, and  the  themometer  an  increase  of  heat,  break  down  the 
head  once  more  into  the  mass,  and  stir  the  whole  well  up.  After 
this  the  head  must  remain  unbroken  till  it  is  skimmed  off,  but 
samples  may  be  ooeasionally  taken  out  to  ascertain  to  what  ex- 
tent attenuation  has  taken  place.  When  the  head  assumes  a 
dark-brown  appearance,  and  begins  to  be  depressed  in  the  cen- 
tre, it  must  be  removed,  or  it  will  fall  to  the  bottom  and  destroy 
the  flavour  of  the  ale.  Be  especially  careful  to  prevent  this. 
After  skimming  apply  the  saccharometer.  Should  the  gravity 
not  be  reduced  two-fifths, — that  is,  that  which  originally  stood 
at  100  be  reduced  to  60, — and  that  which  was  65  be  reduced  to 
.S9,— rouse  it  well  up,  and  skim  every  two  hours,  till  this  degree 
of  attenuation  is,  if  possible,  attained.  The  table-beer  should  be 
put  into  the  cask  24  hours  after  fiermentation  has  oommenced  in 
the  fermenting  tun. 

See  that  the  casks  are  perfectly  clean  and  dry.  Place  them 
on  a  gawntree  with  the  bunghole  a  little  inclined  to  one  side, 
that  the  yeast  may  discharge  itself  freely  from  the  ale.  Fill  the 
casks',  and  as  for  some  time  a  considerable  discharge  will  take 
place  from  the  bunghole,  be  careful  to  supply  the  deficiency 
every  two  hours  from  the  pitchers  containing  the  over-contents 
of  the  casks.  If  this  be  not  attended  to  the  yeast  will  fall  to  the 
bottom,  and  make  the  ale  harsh,  besides  rendering  it  liable  to  new 
fermentation  on  every  change  of  weather. 
When  the  fermentation  has  subsided  the  casks  should  be 


650  DOMESTIC  BREWING. 

irmly  bunged  down  with  wooden  bongs,  called  by  the  brewen 
a4tee«,  and  a  spile-hole  made  in  them,  into  which  a  yent-peg  is 
pot  loosely  for  a  day  or  two,  and  then  firmly  fixed.  When  ale 
ia  made  in  March  and  intended  to  be  kept  over  the  summer,  it 
may  be  adyisable  to  put  4  or  6  ounces  of  the  finest,  hops  ioto 
•▼ery  half-hogshead  ;  or  the  half  of  this  quantity  if  the  ale  is 
racked  off  into  quarter-hogsheads  or  kilderkins,  which  are  per- 
haps more  couTenient  for  domestic  use. 

If  notwithstanding  all  your  care  the  ale  shoold  be  cloudy,  it 
will  be  necessary  to  fine  it  by  artificial  means.  To  do  this  yoa 
mnst  dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  quart  of  cider  or  stole 
beer,  allowing  it  to  stand  for  sereral  days,  when  another  quart  of 
eider  or  beer  may  be  added.  Strain  this  throngh  a  sieve,  and 
put  nearly  the  half  of  an  English  pint  of  it  to  each  quarter-hogs- 
head or  kilderkin^  mixing  it  thoroughly  with  the  ale.  Ale  shodd 
not  be  fined  in  this  manner  unless  absolutely  necessary  ;  for  it 
has  a  strong  tendency  to  flatten  it  and  promote  acidity. 

In  this  brewing  the  strong-ale  wort  may  have  a  gravity  of  from 
112  to  115  ;  the  middle-ale  wort,  a  gravity  of  74;  and  the  table- 
beer  wort,  a  gravity  of  firom  48  to  50.  The  expense  will  stand 
thus  : — 


6  bttahels  malt  at  7s.  6d.        £2    6  0 

tfi  pouncU  hops  at  Is.  6d.          0    9  9 

3  gross  oorks  at  3s.                    0    9  0 

bugar,  porhaps  38  lbs.  at  S^d.  0  17  5 

£4    12 


2%e  proceeds  ctt  cost  price. 
14  dos.  strong  ale  at  38.  4d.    £2   6  8 
14  doz.  middle  ale  at  Is.  lUd.    15  8 
7  doz.  table-beer  at  Is.  4d.      0    9  4 


£4    I   8 


l*he  cost  of  the  above,  if  purchased  from  a-  retailer  in  dozens, 
would  stand  thus  : — 

14  dozen  six-pound  ale  at  6s.  per  dozen £3  10  0 

14  dozen  three-pound  ale  at  2s.  6d 1  15  o 

7  dozen  table-beer  at  Is.  9d. 0  12  3 


£6  17    3 


II.  To  brew  from  six  Bushels  of  Malt  {witkout  Sugar)  a  Barrel 
(36  Gallons)  ofAle^  and  a  Barrel  (36  Gallons)  of  Table-beer. 

Have  your  mash-tub  in  proper  order,  as  directed  at  page  640, 
and  mash  as  before  the  six  bushels  of  malt  with  50  gallons  of 
water  at  the  temperature  of  182°.  Let  the  mash  remain  covered 
from  two  to  three  hours,  and  then  begin  to  draw  off.  When  the 
surface  of  the  mash  begins  to  appear,  sparge  into  the  mash-tun, 
as  directed  in  the  last  case,  64  gallons  of  water,  at  the  tempera- 
ture of  190^,  keeping  the  tap  running  during  the  operation.  If 
your  boiler  is  large  enough  to  manage  from  50  to  54  gallons,  with 
the  hops,  put  into  it  that  quantity  of  the  strong-ale  wort;  for  the 
evaporation  in  boiling  and  cooling,  and  the  absorption  by  the 


DOMESTIC  BREWING.  651 

hops,  will  reduce  the  wort  of  the  first  boiling  nearly  one-third. 
If  your  copper,  however,  only  contain  45  gallons,  you  cannot  put 
into  it  more  than  42  gallons.  This,  with  the  hops,  is  as  much  as 
a  forty-five  gallon  copper  will  boil;  and  you  need  not  draw  off 
more  in  the  mean  time.  You  must  make  up  the  deficiency  of 
your  ale  wort  from  the  second  copper. 

When  you  have  sparged  in  the  64  gallons,  at  the  temperature 
of  190'',  draw  off  from  the  copper  other  36  gallons  of  boiling  wattr 
into  one  of  the  fermenting  tuns,  which  is  to  be  kept  hot,  and 
sparged  into  the  mash-tub,  at  the  temperature  of  195°,  if  pos- 
sible, as  soon  as  you  begin  to  draw  off  for  the  second  copper j 
which  must  be  shortly  after  you  have  brought  the  strong-ale  wort 
to  boil. 

As  soon  as  you  have  drawn  off  the  36  gallons  of  boiling  water 

for  the  last  sparging,  put  into  the  copper  the  strong-ale  wort,  and 

two  pounds  of  the  best  East  Kent  hops,  well  rubbed  vnth  the 

hand  and  separated.     Bring  it  to  boil  as  quickly  as  possible,  and 

when  it  has  boiled  45  minutes  put  in  other  two  pounds  of  the  hops. 

After  boiling  another  half-hour  (one  hour  and  a  quarter  in  all,) 

damp  the  fire  and  draw  off  the  contents  of  the  copper,  as  directed 

in  the  first  method,  into  the  coolers  for  the  strong  ale.    Put  in 

the  second  running  of  42  gallons,  or  as  much  as  your  copper  will 

easily  boil,  and  return  the  boiled  hops  into  it.    When  it  has 

boiled  one  hour  and  three  quarters,  empty  the  copper,  and  put 

in  the  third  and  last  running  from  the  mash-tub.     As  soon  as  it 

begins  to  boil,  make  eight  or  ten  gallons  of  this  wort  percolate 

through  the  boiled  hops,  to  extract  the  strong  wort  from  them; 

then  drain  them  well  and  throw  them  away,  returning  the  strained 

wort  into  the  copper.     Put  your  last  two  pounds  of  hops  into  the 

copper,  and  boil  in  all  two  hours.    When  nearly  ready,  cool  some 

of  the  wort  to  60°,  and  mix  proportional  quantities  of  the  second 

and  third  boilings  to  see  what  would  be   their  gravity  when 

mixed  together  for  the  fermenting  tun. 

Measure  the  quantity  of  the  ale  wort  which  came  from  the  first 
copper,  and  take  as  much  of  the  coutents  of  the  second  as  will 
make  it  up  to  38  gallons  for  the  barrel  (36  gallons)  of  ale.  If 
the  gravity  is  84,  on  the  saccharometer,  from  this  \y)rt  you  will 
have  light  pleasant  ale,  of  which  one  may  take  a  hearty  draught 
without  any  bad  consequences.  This  must  be  fermented  when  it 
has  cooled  down  to  75%  exactly  as  directed  under  Fermentation 
in  the  first  method.  It  will  require  four  English  pints,  or  4^ 
pounds  of  the  best  strong  ale  yeast. 

Mix  the  contents  of  the  second  and  third  coppers  together. 
If  the  saccharometer  indicate  a  gravity  of  50,  there  is  nearly  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  saccharine  matter  to  the  gallon.  This  should 
make  beer  of  nearly  the  same  strength  as  the  best  Prestonpans 
table-beer,  which  is  retailed  in  Edinburgh  at  2s.  6d.  per  dozen. 
Ferment  this  wort  at  the  temperature  of  80%  as  directed  in  the 
former  receipt,  with  about  2^  English  pints  or  3  pounds  of  the 


652  DOMBSnC  BREWING. 

best  siroiig-»l«  yeMfc»  aod  pot  it  into  the  cask  sfter  24  lionis'  fei< 
mentatioa  in  the  titn^  filling  it  ap  earefolly  as  tine  yeast  ia>  tiuvwa 
oat  at  the  bnngbole. 

If  the  ale  wort  ihow  a  gravity  ef  84,  it  will  oontain  aeariy  tvc 
poanda  and  a  half  of  eaecbarine  matter  per  gallon,  and  the  reaoJt 
of  the  mashing  will  etand  thoa:— « 

1.  as  gkOQaw  ate  wort  at  nearly  9}  lbs.  extract  9t,  gravitv  84 

S.  98  firiioMtabla-lMtr  wort  at  aeariy  It  lbs.  extract  66,  grsvitgfSt 


The  coat  of  the  brewing  will  stand  thus : — 


eiiwlMltmahat7t.(ML,       £9    5    •  I  36ga]lomaleat  !&,         -      £1  IB  « 


36  iritone  taUfr-haer  a*  OcL,     0  18  9 

£2  1i  0 

Udi»nialaat2a.3iL,  £2  0  f 

18  cUnen  tohio  bear  at  U.  3d.,  1  S  > 

^   3  • 


tfpQundi  hope  at  !«.<».,  0    »  0 

£2  14  0 

SgriMoariiaatai.,  0    9  9 

j^    3  0 


The  Qorka  used  are  of  the  beat  kind,  at  Sa.  per  gross, 
cooaidenbly  inereasea  the  eoat  of  tb^  table-beer ;  bat  many  m 
a  lower-priced  eork  for  it,  and  others  make  the  eorks  serye  twiet. 
Ferment  the  barrel  of  table-beer  in  a  ton  capable  of  eontainof 
above  42  galloiiA ;  and  be  sure  yon  have  eooogh  to  ftU  your  banal, 
oz  two  kitderkina,  with  two  or  three  gallons  more  to  supply  wbst 
may  run  orer  at  the  bnngliole  daring  the  fenne&tation  in  the 
oaak. 

ObterwUian,  —  In  drawing  off  tiie  worts  from  the  maah-tm, 
the  greatest  oare  most  be  taken  to  torn  the  tap  oo-Iy  partially  at 
first,  and  to  receiye  the  first  running  into  »  pail,  and  retnm  it 
to  the  mash-ton  till  it  become  perfectly  dear.  After  thiff  the 
tap  may  be  turned  more  folly  roond ;  taking  care,  however,  thai 
the  bed  of  the  ma^  is  not  broken,  and  that  the  first  spargie^ 
does  not  render  the  wort  ronning  from  the  tap  mvddy,  in  wfai^ 
case  it  wonhl  be  necessary  to  reeeive  some  more  of  the  wort  is  a 
pail,  and  return  it  to  the  mash-tan.  This  obsenration,  thcngii 
not  repeated,  most  be  carefolly  attended  to  in'  all  ^e  receipts. 


HOW  TO  MANAGE  FOUR  BUSHELS  OF  MALT. 

III.  To  Brew  from  four  BuskeU  of  MaU  one  JSTUderkin  HS 
OdUon$  or  9  Dozen)  of  Strong  AU,  and  one  Barrel  (36 
OaUons  or  18  Dozen)  of  TcMe-Beer ;  using  Su^ar  along 
tritk  Oie  Malt, 

Mash  ft)ur  bushels  of  the  best  pale  malt  with  36  gallons  of 
water  at  the  temperature  of  182**,  according  to  the  directions  in 
page  645.  Let  the  mash  remain  covered  two  hours  and  a-half, 
aud  then  begin  to  draw  off  into  the  underback.    When  the  snr- 


DOMESTIC  BREWING.  6S3 

face  of  the  mash  appears,  begin  to  sparge  into  the  mash-tun  58 
gallons  of  water  at  the  temperature  of  190%  as  before,  keeping 
the-  tap  open  till  yon  have  drawn  off  into  the  underback  as  much 
as  will  yield  about  38  gallons  of  wort  for  the  first  copper.  Stop 
the  tap  for  some  time ;  but  be  sure  to  have  the  table-beer  wort 
in  the  underback  in  time  for  the  second  copper. 

This  strong-ale  wort  will  be  reduced  by  eyaporation  in  boiling, 
&e.f  to  about  27  gallons,  which  is  seven  gallons  more  than  you 
need ;  but  the  surplus  will  go  into  the  table-beer  wort,  which 
otherwise  the  copper  oould  not,  perhaps,  at  once  contain.    Pat 
the  strong-ale  wort  into  l^e  boiler,  with  two  pounds  of  the  best 
hops,  and  make  it  boil  briskly  for  45  minutes,  after  which  add 
another  half-pound  of  hops.    Boil  for  30  minutes  longer,  (one 
hour  and  a-quarter  in  all,)  and  then  draw  off  as  directed  in  page 
647.     Cool  some  of  the  wort  to  GO*'  a  little  befcore  drawing  off ; 
try  its  strength  with  the  saocharometer ;  draw  off  soYon  gallons 
for  the  table-beer  wort,  and  then  put  into  the  copper  what  sugar 
may  be  necessary  to  raise  the  gravity  of  the  remaining  20  gal- 
lons to  115,  which  will  give  you  Edinburgh  ale  at  £6  per  hogs- 
head ;  or  to  102,  if  you  prefer  Edinburgh  ale  at  £5  per  hogshead. 
Ferment  the  strongiale  wort,  at  the  temperature  of  75°,  with  two 
English  pints  and  a-half,  or  two  pounds  and  three-quarters  of 
the  best  strong-ale  yeast.    Fill  the  copper  again  immediately 
with  the  table-beer  wort ;  return  the  hops  to  the  boiler,  and  add 
one  pound  and  a-half  of  fresh  hops.    Let  this  copper  boil  for  two 
hours.    Draw  it  off  and  mix  it  with  the  seven  gallons  taken  from. 
the  first  copper.    Cool  a  portion  of  the  mixture  to  60" ;  try  its 
strength  with  the  saocharometer,  and  add  what  sugar  is  neces- 
sary to  raise  .it  to  50,'if  you  feel  inclined.    Ferment  the  table- 
beer- wort,  at  the  temperature  of  80%  with  two  pints. and  a-half 
of  the  best  strong-ale  yeast,  according  to  the  dire<ftions  in  page 
648.    If  the  gravity  of  the  strong-ale  wort  is  93,  (that  is  Q^ 
pounds  saccharine-matter  per  gallon,)  by  adding  13  pounds  of 
sugar  to  the  20  gallons  of  wort,  the  gravity  wiU  be  raised  to  1 15. 
In  this  case,  there  should  remain  about  19  ounces  per  gallon  for 
the  38  gallons  of  table-beer  wort,  which  will  yield  a  gravity  of 
about  40 ;  eleven  pounds  of  sugar  will  raise  tins  to  50.    The  re- 
sult of  the  operation  will  stand  thus : — 

20  gals,  ale  wort  at  2t  lbs.   per  gal.,  gravity  93 — Saecharum  i^56 
13  lbs.  sugar, do.     28 

—116 
S8  gab.  table-beer  wort  at  19  oz.  per  gal.,    do.     40  do.        —45 

11  lbs.  sugar, do.     10 

—60 


The  cost  will  stand  thus: — 

4  bushels  malt  at  78.  6d.,  £1  10  0 

4  pounds  hops  at  Is.  6d.,  0    6  0 

34  pounds  sugar  at  5id.  0  11  0 

a^gross  corks,           -  0    6  9 

£2l2r9 


9  doz.  ale  at  3s.  4d.,      -      £1  10    0 
18  doz.  table-beer  at  Is.  4d.,     14    0 


£2  14    0 


654  DOMBSTIC  BRBWINO. 


IV.  To  Brew  from  four  BuiheU  of  Malty  wUk  or  wiik<mt  Sugar, 
a  Half'kogskead  (14  Dozen)  of  Strong  Ale,  and  a  JCUdeHoM 
(9  Dozen)  of  Table-Beer. 

WITH  SUGAR.  , 

Mash  four  bushels  of  malt  with  36  gallons  of  water  at  the 
temperature  of  182**,  following  the  directions  in  page  645.  hit 
the  mash  remain  covered  two  hours  and  a  half,  aud  then  dnw 
off  into  the  underback.  Sparge  into  the  mash-tun,  as  soon  as  the 
surface  of  the  mash  begins  to  appear,  30  gallons  of  water  at  the 
temperature  of  190**,  allowing  the  tap  to  remain  open  till  jw 
have  drawn  off  44  gallons  to  fill  the  first  copper.  Sparge  in  ai 
before  other  20  gallons  at  the  temperature  of  195"*.  Iiet  this  le- 
main  for  some  time  in  the  mash-tun ;  but  be  sure  to  draw  it  «f 
in  time  for  the  second  copper. 

Pat  the  strong-ale  wort  into  the  copper  with  two  pounds  «f 
the  best  East  Kent  hops.  Make  it  boil  briskly  for  45  minotei, 
after  which  put  iu  another  pound  of  hops.  Let  it  boil  30  miontes 
longer  (one  hour  and  a  quarter  in  all,)  and  then  draw  off  at 
directed  in  page  647.  Before  drawing  off,  cool  some  of  the  wort 
to  60**,  and  ascertain  its  gravity.  Add  sugar  to  raise  its  gravitj 
to  lis,  if  you  wish  ale  of  the  strength  which  the  £dinbai|^ 
brewers  sell  at  £6  per  hogshead. 

Put  the  table-beer  wort  into  the  copper,  and  return  the  boiled 
hops,  to  which  add  another  pound  of  fresh  hops.  Boil  one  hoer 
and  three-quarters.  Try  the  strength  with  the  saccharometa, 
and  add  sugar  to  give  it  a  gravity  9f  from  40  to  45  or  50  as  yoi 
feel  inclined.  Draw  off  and  distribute  into  the  coolers.  Ferment 
the  strong-ale  wort  at  the  temperature  of  75**  with  three  Engii^ 
pints  (3^  pounds)  of  the  best  yeast,  as  directed  in  the  first  receipt, 
— and  the  table-beer  wort  at  80**  with  one  English  pint  and » 
half.  The  domestic  brewer  must  attend  very  carefully  to  woit 
by  the  directions  given  in  the  first  receipt.  The  details  of  the 
operation  are  much  more  full  in  it  than  a  limited  space  would 
allow  in  the  subsequent  receipts,  which  contain  merely  directions 
how  to  manage  the  quantities  in  hand  according  to  the  method 
more  fully  explained  there. 

If  the  gravity  of  your  strong-ale  wort  is  90  you  will  requin 
22  pounds  of  sugar  to  raise  it  to  115.  See  Rule  in  page  644. 
Thus  :  — 

1 15— 90=25  X  30=  V^=22  nearly. 

If  the  gravity  of  your  table-beer  wort  is  35,  and  you  wish  to 
raise  it  to  50,  you  will  require  9  pounds  of  sugar.     Thus  : 

50—35=  1 5  X  20=  »^f = 9  pounds  nearly. 


DOMESTIC  BREWING. 


655 


The  cost  of  the  brewing  will  stand  thns  :  — 


4  buahels  malt  at  7s.  6<L 
4  pounds  bops  at  Is.  6d. 
31  pounds  sugar  at  5id. 
2  gross  corks.    .    ,    .    . 


£1  10 

0 

0    6 

0 

0  14 

at 

0    6 

0 

£2  16    2i 


14  do2.  ale  at  Ss.  3d.  £2    5    0 

9  doz.  table-beer  at  Is.  4d.      0  12    0 


£2  17  « 
The  cost  if  bought  in  dozens: — 

14  doz.  ale  at  5b.    .    .    .      £3  10  • 

9  doz.  table-beer  at  2s.  0  18  0 


£4    8    0 


WITHOUT  SUGAR. 

To  brew  the  same  quantity  without  sugar,  reduce  your  ale 
wort  to  the  gravity  of  80,  which  will  allow  a  gravity  of  50  for 
your  table-beer.  This  is  easily  managed  by  substituting  some  of 
the  table-beer  wort  for  a  portion  of  the  ale  wort,  regulating  the 
strength  by  the  saccharometer.  When  your  ale  wort  is  reduced 
to  80,  your  table-beer  wort  will  reach  to  about  50,  as  you  will 
find  by  the  saccharometer.  Proceed  in  fermentation  as  above 
directed.    The  result  will  be  :  — 


4  bushels  of  Malt  at  7s.  6d.  £1  10  0 
4  pounds  of  hops  at  Is  6d.  0  6  0 
2  gross  of  oorks.  0    6    0 


£2    2    0 


14  doz.  of  ale  at  2b.  2d. 
9  doz.  table-beer  at  Is.  4d. 


£1  10 
0    12 


4 

• 


£2    2    4 


V.    To  brew  from  two  Bushels  of  Malt  a  Quarter- hogshead  of 
Strong  Ale  (7  Dozen  J  and  a  Quarter-hogshead  of  Tahfe-beer, 

Mash  two  bushels  of  the  best  malt  with  18  gallons  of  water 
at  the  temperature  of  182°,  and  cover  up  for  two  hours  and  a 
half.  Draw  off  into  the  underback ;  and  when  the  surface  of  the 
mash  begins  to  appear,  sparge  in  12  gallons  of  water  at  the 
temperature  of  190''  the  tap  being  kept  open  till  you  have  drawn 
off  about  24  gallons  for  the  first  copper.  Sparge  upon  the  mash 
other  20  gallons  of  water  at  the  temperature  of  195**  to  form 
the  table-beer  wort,  and  cover  up  for  a  short  time,  taking  care, 
however,  that  the  wort  shall  be  ready  in  the  underback  as  soon 
as  the  first  copper  is  boiled. 

Put  the  strong-ale  wort  into  the  copper  with  one  pound  of 
the  best  hops.  Boil  for  45  minutes,  and  then  add  another  half- 
pound  of  hops.  Boil  for  30  minutes  longer ;  cool  a  portion  of 
the  wort  to  60**,  and  try  the  strength  with  the  saccharometer. 
Add  sagar,  if  necessary,  to  raise  the  gravity  to  1 1 5, — the  strength 
of  Edinburgh  ale  sold  at  £6  per  hogshead.  Draw  off  and  dis- 
tribute in  the  coolers. 

Put  the  table-beer  wort,  drawn  firom  the  second  sparging,  into 
the  copper,  and  see  that  you  have  enough  of  it  in  case  there 
should  be  a  deficiency  in  the  strong-ale  wort.    Return  the  boiled 


«56 


DOMBSnC  BRBWINa. 


hops  to  the  copper  and  add  uiother  h&lf-poaBd.  Let  ibis  aeemi 
wort  boil  two  hoars.  Cool  a  portion  of  it  to  60**  and  try  its 
Btrength.  Add  sugar  to  giro  it  a  grayity  of  50,|if  yon  wisk 
it.  Draw  off, — cool  to  the  temperature  of  80",  and  feraeit 
with  one  English  pint  of  the  best  strong-ale  yeast,  as  directed  ii 
the  first  receipt.  Ferment  the  ale- wort  at  75**  with  one  ElngM 
pint  and  three-quarters  of  the  best  strong-ale  yeast.  See  Fss- 
MSTiAiioif  in  firat  receipt. 

In  this  small  brewing  suppose  the  strtfng-ale  wort  to  stand  98 
of  gravity ,  and  the  table-beer  wort  24.  How  much  sugar  will 
be  required  to  raise  the  strong -ale  wort  to  115,  and  the  table- 
beer  wort  to  50  1 


115—88=27x15= 
50— 24s26  X  16= 

The  cost  will  be, — 

8  boBbela  malt  at  7s.  6d. 
24  pounds  sugar  at  B^d. 

2  pounds  hops  at  Is.  6d. 
14  dosan  corks,  at  3d. 


:«^&  =  12  pounds  nearly  for  strong  ale. 
:V^  =  12  pounds  nearly  for  table-beer. 


£0  16 
0  11 
0 

0 


3 
3 


0 
0 
0 
6 


£1  12    6 


7  dos.  strong  ale  at  Sa.  4d.     £1  ^S 
7  dox.  table-beer  at  Is.  4d.        0  9 


£1U  i 
If  bought  iu.dozens:  — 
7  doz.  strong  ale  at  5s.  £1 15  • 

7  doz.  table-beo*  at  2k.  0  14  * 


£2  9  « 

The  quantity  of  malt  is  here  so  little  that  the  table-beer  cannot 
well  be  made  without  sugar.  The  ale  wort  may,  however,  be  le- 
dnced  to  80,  which  will  allow  the  beer  wort  a  graYitj  of  aboat 
31,  and  by  adding  a  quarter  pound  of  sugar  to  the  gallon,  or  4 
pounds  to  the  weak  wort,  th^  gravity  will  foe. raised  to  40.  Tbe 
resiiH  will  then  be :  — 


2  bushels  malt  at  78.  0d. 
2  pounds  hops  at  Is.  6d. 
14doE.  corks 
4  pounds  of  aij^iar  at  5^. 


£0  15  0 
0  3  0 
0  3  6 
0    1  10 

£13    4 


7  doz.  ale  at  2s.  2d. 

7  dos. -table-beer  at  Is.  9d. 


^0  15  S 

0    8  2 

£1    3   4 


By  following  the  foregoing  directions,  the  home-brewer  night, 
with  very  simple  apparatus,  make,  in  any  ordinary  kitchen,  with 
a  boiler  capable  of  containing  ten  gallons  of  water,  a  qnarttf 
hogshead  (7  dozen)  of  table-beer  at  Is.  6d.  per  dozen,  equal  in 
strength  and  flayour  to  the  best  Frestonpans  table-beer  at  28.  6d. 
per  dozen  :  or,  by  adding  to  the  wort  eight  pounds  of  raw  augnr, 
a  delightful  light  ale  at  2s.  per  dozen,  equal  in  strength,  and 
superior  in  .flavour,  to  what  he  could  purchase  at  36.  per  doaen. 


INDEX. 


Absinthe,  crdmad',  No.  1060, 550, 55a 
Add  liquors,  see  vinegars,  2S7,  8,  9. 
Acidulated  drops,  531. 
Admiral's  sauce,  old,  280. 
Admirable,  Loudon's,  552. 
Advice  to  Housekeepers,  .39-45,  902. 
A  la  mode  beef,  and  veal,  ox-tails,  907, 

dia 

Alderman  in  chains,  note,  116. 
Alderman's  walk,  52. 

pudding,  476. 
Ale,  domestic  brewing  of,  App.  639, 656. 
Ale-posset,  558. 
Ale-berry,  585. 

AJOi  or  table-beer,  to  make,  645-656. 
Alegar,  288. 
Almond  custards,  to  make,  510. 

pudding,  two  ways,  4i^ 

pudding  baked,  483. 

cakes  or  macaroons,  537. 

cheesecakes,  511. 

noi^^t,  532. 
Almonds,  devilled,  to  serve  with  wine. 
No.  768. 

dlablotins  of,  406. 
Allnm  whey.  No.  1074. 
Allspice,  essence  and  tincture  of,  285, 

286. 
Anchovies,  to  choose,  43. 

imitation  of.  No.  146. 
Anchovy  toasts,  362. 

butter,  284. 

powder  of,  for  flavouring  sauoes, 
284. 

sauce,  279. 
Apple-pie,  463. 
Apples,  best  kinds.   Obs.  463. 

encompdte^  526. 

dumplings  of,  No.  876. 

fritters  of,  and  French  do.  496. 

Chartreuse  of,  514. 

in  rice,  514. 

pasty  of,  46& 

puffs  of,  468. 

d  la  Portuffuaite,  418. 

Swiss  puddOuag  of,  484. 

excellent  pudding  of,  484. 

miroUm  de  pommett  418. 


Apples,  Manse  puddbig  of,  484 

to  bake,  514. 

jeUy  of,  507. 

fool  of,  513. 

trifle  of,  509. 

water  of,  for  a  cooling  draught. 
No.  1143. 

mannalade  of,  524. 

to  preserve  red,  526. 

for  puddings,  a  cheap  way,  525. 

to  butter,  513. 

sauJfU  of,  in  rice  border,  518. 
Apricot  jam,  523. 
Apricots,  to  preserve,  GSti, 

Abrioots  an  riz,  417. 

apples  and  pears  with  rice,  No.  707. 

pie  of.  No.  805. 

pudding  of,  484* 

ice-cream  of,  504. 
Arabian  cheese,  note,  623. 
Arbuthnot,  Dr.  note,  2^. 
Aromatic  tincture,  561. 
Arrow-root  jelly,  583. 
Artichokes,  to  boU,  231. 

Jerusalem,  231. 

d  VlUdienne,  416. 

en  canapes,  416. 
Artificial  ass's  milk,  693. 
Aspic  jelly,  383. 
Asparagus,  to  dress,  230. 

peas,  French  mode,  415.      , 

soup,  160. 

with  chickens,  349. 

with  eggs,  368. 
A  thole  brose,  559. 
Auld  man's  milk,  559. 

Bachelor's  round  of  beef,  907. 

stew,  310. 
Bacon,  to  cure  in  flitches  or  whole 
sides,  612. 

to  boa,  97. 

to  broU,  134. 

with  eggs  or  sausage,  141. 

with  calfs  liver,  142. 

Cobbett  on,  108,  note. 
Bacon  hams,  to  cure,  606,  607. 

to  boil,  95. 

2t 


G68 


INDBX. 


Bacon  hum,  to  roMt,  907. 

with  Wliidaor  bmm,  M. 

with  Maddim,  ML 
Hafai  Mario,  noto,  187. 
Bakbig  meat,  obtorvatloiis  on,  1S7. 

^ito,  440to  4fi8. 

Dioad,  644. 

p«an  and  apples,  614. 
Balls,  brain,  357. 

of  egg  for  moek  turtle,  107. 

ftwoemeat,  llsh,  18S,  194. 

potato,  S46. 

bevenges  for  chiMnn's,  660,  660. 
Ballyshannon  pidda,  IW. 
Balnamoon  skink,  428. 
Barclay,   Dr.   his   experiments  on 

making  batter,  614. 
Barbadoes  water,  660. 
Barberries,  to  preserve,  854,  S80. 
Barloy-water,  to  make,  686. 

broth,  176. 

sugar,  to  make,  631. 

qualities  of  barley,  note,  177. 
KHsket  of  sugar,  to  make  a  ChantUly, 


Bastings,  note,  113. 
Baths,  temperature  of,  604. 
Bath  buns,  54a 
Batter,  and  French  do.  406. 
Beans,  French,  to  dress,  238. 
dlapoidette,  416. 
padding  of,  two  ways,  608. 
Wfaidsor,  with  ham,  06. 
to  boil,  882. 
and  other,  232. 
d  la  poulette,  416. 
to  prsBonre,  by  salting,  254. 
to  pickle  Frendi,  206. 
BKAUVILLICR8,  a  late  eminent  Pari- 
sian regtaurateurf  receipts  by, 
316, 360,  607. 
Bechamel,  or  (lie  French  white  sauce, 

960,379. 
Beef,  to  boil,  observations  on,  84,  5, 6. 
boiled,  or  boutile  ordinaire^  80. 
qualities  of,  42. 
to  salt,  605, 606,  606. 
to  salt  a  mart,  610. 
Dutch,  316. 
Irish,  316. 

Hambargh,  or  b<m^f/u$H^,  816. 
hunter's,  or  spiced,  315. 
ban^de  ehasse,  816. 
to  press,  316. 
to  pot,  321. 
to  collar,  300. 
to  roast  a  sfa-Ioin  of,  105. 
to  roast  the  rump,  or  port  of  it,  106. 
obsonrations  on  roasting,  104. 
to  roast  ribs  of,  106. 
to  roast  collared  ribs  of,  300. 
to  boll  a  salted  round,  or  ramp, 
with  gnsos,  oba.  on,  88,  80. 


Beef,  to  bak«  a  nimp  of,  128. 

boiled,  or  bouitti  oniinairt  gmd 
de  ekouxy  ot  with  cabbage,  9, 
306. 

garM  de  racfner,  mr  wilt 
roots,  160. 
to  ragout  or  braise  a  rump  of^SOS. 
to  stew  or  ragout  a  briakei  of,  306- 

308. 
brisket  of  stewed,  savomy,  386. 
bachekir's  stew  of,  3ia 
to  boU  a  bachekir's  round  of,  90?. 
fillet  of,  in  Madena,  310: 
to  stew  a  leg  or  shin  of,  307. 
a  2a  mode,  with  obe.  on,  d07,& 
brisket,  d  la  Flamande,  3ia 
euMtedlagtO^,  oba.  l<fo.  39a 
'  d  la  ro^ale.  No.  300. 
steaks,  to  broU,  13L 

note  on,  132, 133. 
steaks,  with  cncumben,  31L 
oollops  in  tiie  pan,  1S8L 
steaks,  with  potatoes  or  beans,  IS 
steaks,  to  fry,  138. 
ewtre  edte  de  ban^,  887. 
tongues,  to  stew,  311. 
to  cure,  608. 
to  bn^se,  S88w 
en  miroion,  387. 
stewed    rump    of,    with    gkwd 

onions,  388. 
another  Frendi  mode,  380. 
ramps  or  tails,  d  la  mode,  or  a 

hoehe-pot,  313. 
soup  of  tidls,  173. 
tails,  to  drass,  813. 
palates,  to  dress,  310. 
palates,  French  way,  d  ritaUam, 

kidnoys,  to  dress,  312. 

kidneys  for  d^euner  d  la  fimr- 

cA«tte,812,306. 
to  drees  a  oold  stewed  rump  of, 

380. 
tea,  586. 
heart,  314 
udder,  316. 
skhrts,  314. 
liver,  814, 
ox-head  soup,  and  Hessian  nurant, 

17a 
potted  heels,  08,  09,  432. 
sweetbreads,  to  fiy,  142. 
olives,  313. 
olives  €M  roi,  318. 
marrow-bones,  314. 
mince  collops  of,  431. 
sansi^ies  of,  36a 
fbr  patties  and  podoviea,  471. 
for  small  pies,  472. 
cold,  to  dress,  from  817  to  38L 
inside  of  a  sirloin  or  flUet,  317. 
to  IHoassee,  317. 


INDEX. 


659 


Beef,  olives  of  dressed,  818. 
to  ha«h,  318. 

Knglifih  stew  of  dressed,  319. 
scalloped,  or  Saunders,  319. 
Cecils,  319. 
to  mince  dressed,  319. 
a  I'arisian  mode,  320. 
cold,  to  broU,  320. 
another  way,  320. 
iMibble  and  squeak,  320. 
inky  pinliy,  9^1. 
tripe,  to  boU,  98,  434. 

to  fry,  143,  389,  No.  743. 
suet,  to  melt  and  clarify.  No.  44. 
dripping,  to  save,  103, 104. 
to  clarify,  137. 
Beef-suet  in  pie-crust,  463. 
Beef-steak  pie,  454. 
Beer  and  ale,  home-made,  of  malt,  660, 

651,652. 
Beer,  ginger,  a  superior  kind,  668l 
common  ginger,  669. 
treacle  bbA  sugar,  669. 
spruce,  white  and  brown,  667, 668. 
Beetroot,  to  dress,  236. 
to  pickle,  29& 
in8a]ads»260,261. 
Beverages,  roFresUng,  of  firuits,  592. 

household,  667,  668,  569. 
BUls  of  fine,  65  to  79. 

observations  on,  60  to  66. 
for  Ang^o-French-dinnen,  374,6,6. 
Biscuit,  wine,  Leman's,  and  common, 
.539. 

devilled,  361. 
Bishop,  to  make,  hot  or  iced,  656. 

note  on  i^iced  wine,  556. 
Birds,  or  game,  to  keep,  121, 122, 123. 
to  roast,  120, 121, 122, 123, 124. 
sauces  for,  271,  272,  273,  274. 
devils  of,  360,  361. 
Salmis  of  game,  4103. 
See   also    Saupt^   PieSt    Currier 
BroiUng. 
Birch  wine,  567. 
Bitten,  a  tonic,  660. 
Black  chernr  brandy,  652. 
caps,  514. 
currant  jelly,  622. 
Blanc,  a  rich  gravy,  414. 
Blancmange,  and  as  made  in  France, 

608. 
Blanquettes,  to  dress,  393. 
with  cucumbers,  39S. 
Blood  puddings,  435. 
Bceufde  chaise^  316. 
Boiling,  observations  on,  84  to  87. 

note  on,  397. 
Bologna  sausages,  to  make,  359. 
Bon-bons,  Ghrandmamma's,  631. 
Bon  dioMe,  448. 

BoueMes  petdtet  d  la  Seine,  406. 
petUei dlapaUeriere,  422. 


BoucMet  de  Dames,  422. 

Boudins  d  la  Seine  of  cold  veal,  892. 

blanc,  413. 

d  la  SicheUeu,  412. 
Bou,m,  89, 150,  307. 

onions  for  garnishing,  266. 

sauces  for,  Nos.  278,  261,  691. 
Brain-balls  and  cakes,  357,  8. 
Braising,  directions  for,  note,  838 
Brandy,  shrub  of,  669. 

black  cherry,  662. 

raspberry,  652. 
Brawn,  to  choose,  43. 
Brazilian  stewed  beef,  308. 
Bread,  to  bake,  644. 

unfermented,  646. 

on  Cobbett's  plan,  544. 

Manheim  rolls,  546. 

muffins,  546. 

to  bake  brown,  646. 

and  meat,  or  Koobb^,  447. 

crusts  of,  to  grill,  163. 

borders,  369. 

cioustades,  370. 

crumbs,  to  fry,  143. 

sippets  for  borders,  369. 

Johnny  cakes  of  Indian  meal,  541. 

French  bread,  546. 
Breakfast  rolls,  646. 

scones,  641. 
Breakfasts,  Dejeuners  d  la  fourcheUe, 
obs.  on,  and  some  articles  for, 
note,  ode,  81,  82. 

Nos.  137,  899,  647,  648,  649. 
Break&st,  bill  for  a  public,  or  mar- 
riage, or  christening  one,  83. 
Brbyvino,  domestic,  App.  639  to  656. 
Brill,  to  dress,  No.  187,  also  pp.  194, 210. 
Brioche  paste,  420. 

<jMff>omaffe,  No.  717,  p.  421. 
British  Parmesan,  622. 

wines,  661-667. 
Brocoli,  to  dress,  229. 

to  pickle,  300. 
Broiling,  durections  for,  129, 130. 
Brose,  Scotch,  fat  and  kail,  427. 

Athole,  669. 
Broth,  Scotoh  barley,  176, 177. 

sheep's-head,  436  to  43& 
Broths,  soups,  and  gravies,  obs.  on, 
144-149, 177, 178. 

rules  for  making,  146. 
Browning,  or  sugar-catsup,  293. 

orroux,  for  made-dishes,  &c,  259. 
Brown  flour,  note,  259. 
Brown  thickening  for  sauces,  ragouts, 

Ac.  260. 
Brussels  sprouts  or  small  cabbage,  to 

dress,  233. 
Bun,  a  Scotoh  Christmas,  543. 

cross  and  plum,  642. 

Bath,  640. 

common,  642. 


660 


CTDBZ. 


Burdwaii,  lodiu,  44B. 
Btttter,  to  cany  614^7. 

M  nuMle  in  DunbaiiOBshira*  616. 

to  colour.  No.  190B. 

to  melt,  257. 

to  thicken  for  nooe,  256. 

to  melt  in  ctomd,  2S0k 

to  recover,  if  oiled,  note,  258. 

to  clarify,  137. 

bUck,  of  fruit,  for  chiMND,  584 

anchovy,  284. 

Fairy,  S71. 

Montpelier,  SSL 

to  roll  or  mould  for  hmalffaeiii, 

cheeee-coume,   or  gamiahfaigi, 

61& 
to  fredien,  617 
to  scoop,  618. 
filbert,  618. 
honey,  617. 

to  improve,  if  rancid,  617. 
mean  temperature  at  whidi  cream 

Bhould  be  put  into  the  chum, 

614. 
tooU,  268. 
to  brown  or  bum,  that  is  Black 

butter,  258. 
parsley  and  butter,  259. 
Buttered  lobster,  218. 

prawns  and  shrimps,  No.  169. 
apples,  613. 
eggs,  367. 

Cabbi^,  obs.  on,  note,  2S0. 

to  stew  red,  239. 

to  pickle  red,  298. 

to  boil,  23& 

to  stew,  with  duck,  362. 

sauer  crout  of,  444. 
Cabinet  pudding,  485. 
Cafi  d  la  crime,  591. 

nair,  691. 
Cakes,  obs.  on  baking,  533. 

to  ice,  634. 

to  frost  a  bride's,  or  fine  one,  534. 

a  plain  pound-cake,  534. 

a  plain  plum-cake,  634 

a  rich  plum-cake,  535. 

rose  souffUt  632. 

a  rice-cake,  636. 

C/ateau  de  riXt  or  French  rice-cake 
for  centre  of  a  table,  536. 

fine  seed-cake,  586. 

common  seed-cake,  536. 

diet  cake,  636. 

Savoy,  or  sponge  cake,  537. 

Yorkshire,  646. 

flour  scones  or  slim,  541. 

tea-cakes,  various  kinds,  539. 

Bally  Lunn,  646. 

Johnny,  of  Indian  meal,  641. 

Tunbridge  and  Shrewsbury,  639. 

Derby,  641. 


Soottiflh,    or   ahort- 


Oakes,  dneen*^  etamman,  wagar,  ML 

Kent  and  rout,  5tt. 

Shortbread, 
cake,  537. 

Petticoat-tails,  Sooteih»  540L 

ratafia,  53& 

Macaroons,  587. 

gingerbread,  638. 
Calecannon,  to  drese,  248. 
Calves' feet  jelly,  50& 

tails  to  dices,  888. 

feet,  83a 

liver,  328,  S20L 

liver,  with  fine  herb*,  209. 

brains,  392. 

ears,  392. 

sweetbreads,  828,  892. 

head,  329,  330,  SSL 

nluek,  327. 

head  to  currie,  391. 

oold  sweetbras^  to  di«a»»  39& 

brains  d  ki  Baviffoie,  381. 

d  ta  maUre  d'hdta,  391 

For  aU  other  thinpt  see  Ykal, 
from  pp.  321  to  384 ;  also  tnm 
pp.  389  to  394;  and  Ckuptm 
Boasting,  Frjfing,  Pigg,  and 
8oup». 
Camxrani  soup,  by  H.  J.,  S8iL 
Camp- vinegar,  289. 

yeast,  646. 
CJowuipef ,  368i 
C^wr-sauce,  269. 

mock,  269. 
Capers,  substitute  for,  No.  3^. 
CapiHaire,  qrrap  of,  to  mafce,  660. 
Carach  sauce,  2f70. 
Carrots,  to  dress,  235. 

Flemish  way,  235. 
Carrier-sauce,  No.  264 
Carting,  directions  for,  47  to  SSL 
Caramel  sugar,  620. 
Carxmb ,  a  celebrated  modean  oook,  46, 

372,  373. 
Carp,  to  stew,  206. 

to  stuff  and  bake,  309. 
MaUHote  of,dla  rovale,  468. 
Catserole,  or  rice-border,  370. 

an  English,  37a 

of  mutton,  340. 

Irish  stew,  hi  No.  764 

cheap,  of  potato-pastry,  ^QQ. 
Castle  puddings,  479. 
Catsup,  to  make  mushroont,  291. 

walnut,  291. 

lemon,  292. 

tomata,  292; 

cucumber,  292. 

oyster,  cockle,  and  Kmade,  398. 

sugar,  293. 
Caudle,  white  and  brown,  68Sw 
Caudle-sauce  for  a  plum-padding,  277. 
Cauliflowers,  to  dreas^  2S0i 


12ra>£Z« 


661 


Cftuliflowen,  with  PMmwan,  290. 
to  pickle,  900. 
with  lamb.  No.  486. 
Caviare,  and  mock  caviare.  220. 
Cayenne  pepper,  to  make,  286. 

easraioe  of,  285. 
Celery,  to  stew,  238. 
sauce  of,  267-268. 
soup  of,  obe.  No.  63. 
Crevdleg  des  moutom,  (iheep's  brainB,) 

to  dress,  396. 
ChantiUy  baskets,  422. 
Charlotte,  488w 
Charlotte  Pnissienne,  481. 
Chartreuse  of  apples,  514. 
Chatn^  sauce,  276. 
ChaudMy    tLe,    Gtr&ne's    puddlng- 

sauoe,  477. 
Cheap  dishes,  obs.  588. 

receipts  for  preparing,  600-604. 
Cheese,  oba.  <»,  618. 

directions  for  keeping,  618-620. 

rennet  fw,  620. 

to  colour,  622. 

British  Parmesan,  622. 

Scotch  StUton,  623. 

Premium  cheese,  or  imitation  of 

double  Olouoester,  623. 
best  Dmilop,  624. 
a  rich  cream,  62& 
Shap  Zigar,  625b 
crowdie,  note,  623. 
toasted,  or  rabbits,  965. 
toast  and,  964. 

American  way,  to  preserve,  620. 
to  produce  ttM  blue  mould,  622. 
Scotch,  Welsh,  and  O'Dohsrty's 

rabbits  of,  965, 966. 
crusts  for  toasted,  Na  81. 
to  pot,  964. 
pudding  of,  481. 

to  grate  and  toast  as  a  relish,  965. 
frittets  of.  964. 
sandwiches  of,  362. 
pastry  ramakins  of,  963. 
ramakins  of,  963. 
to  braise,  366. 
Welsh  gallimaufry,  965. 
fon/dAJkt  404. 

hrioi^aufromage^  Na  717,  p.  421. 
an  egg-chee&e,  512. 
Arabian,  note,  629. 
Gouda,  626. 
Cheese-course,  bills  for,  67,  71. 
Cheese-cakes,     almond,     lemon,     or 
orange,  51L 
good  old-fashioned,  511. 
savoury,  965. 
Cherries,  to  preserve,  628. 

to  preserve  without  sugar,  No.  882. 
en  eA«i»iie,  628. 
tn  compdte,  417. 
dried,  528. 


Cherries,  pie  of,  409. 

Widow  Bamaby's,  558. 
Cheny-brandy,  black,  552. 
Cheny-branc^  or  whidiy,  661. 
Cheetuttts,  boiled  or  roasted,  248. 
Chetney  or  Ghatn^  sauce,  276. 
Chicken,  friars'.  491. 

tea  of.  No.  1199. 
Chickens,  to  boil,  93, 84. 

cutlets  of,  348. 

to  roast,  116. 

to  broil,  134. 

to  fticassee  white,  360. 

to  braise  with  green  peas,  mush- 
rooms, &C.,  349. 

to  currie,  354,  366. 

various  French  modes  of  dressing, 
400-405. 

to  ragout,  348. 
^croqueto  and  rissoles  of,  358. 

chicken  and  ham  patties,  4/B9. 

chicken-pie,  458. 

to  poeie,  414. 

to  pull,  361. 

scallops  of  cold,  402. 
Chili  vmegar,  288. 
China  chilo,  441. 
Chocolate,  to  make,  582. 

Spaniish,  excellent,  682. 
Chops,  pork,  134, 140. 

mutton  and  Iamb,  133. 

lamb,  with  potatoes,  342. 

sauces  for  pork  chops,  Nos.  292, 
283,  and  318. 
Choux  of  paste  royal,  420. 
Cider  vinegar,  287. 
Cinnamon  coniial,  548. 

drops  and  tablet,  690. 

tincture  of,  286. 
Citron  cordial,  548. 
Civet  of  hare,  386. 

of  venison,  344. 

of  roebuck,  387. 
aeaning,  628to636. 
Clove  cordial,  550. 

tincture  of,  286. 
Coals,  obs.  on  the  waste  of  them,  note, 

102. 
Cock-a-leekie,  427. 
Cockles,  to  stew,  220. 

to  scallop,  223. 
Cocoa-nut  cream,  503. 
Codlings,  to  dress,  No.  196. 

sauces  for,  278,  280. 

to  currie,  211. 
Cod,  to  boil,  or  haddock,  186. 

head  and  shoulders  of,  Scotch  way, 
185. 

Obs.  on,  notes,  185, 186. 

cabeached,  187. 

to  broil  sounds  of,  187. 

to  currie  cold,  187. 

to  crimp,  188. 


ee2 


IHDEX. 


Cod,toafwintt,  196. 

to  Carrie  freih,  211. 

frieofMOt,  214. 

French  mode  of  dreering  lalt  cod, 
or  morue  A  la  bonne /kmume,  410. 

Provenoe  brandede,  44B. 
Coffee,  obe.  on,  and  diflbreut  tngrs  of 

making,  687-561. 
CoAe-milk,  601. 
Collier's  roMt,  No.  1193. 
CoUued  beef,  309. 

eeb,207. 

pototo,  246. 
CoOopa,  Scotch ,  of  beef,  1S8. 

lddney,312. 

minced,  ci  beef,  hare,  veal,  or 
venieon,  431,  432. 

▼eniflon-ooUoiM,  142,  844, 432. 

oi  mutton  d  la  mtnute,  396. 
C<doaring  of  tODps  and  sauces,  149. 
Colour  of  provisions  a  good  test  ct 

their  quality,  42. 
Contomme  and  grand  dow,  161. 

French,  377. 
ooiiery,  Frendi,  obs.  on,  371  to  376, 
also  note,  161, 162. 

for  the  sick,  680  to  694. 

for  the  poor,  696-604. 

utensOsfor,  39,  008. 
Cook'k  spices,  286. 
Cool  tankard,  two  ways,  668. 
Cardials,  cinnamon,  dtron,  649. 

dove,  660. 

crime  d*oranffet  660. 

crime  d'abHnthe,  660l 

Barbadoes  wator,  660. 

Curapoa,  649. 
Corstorphine  cream,  682. 
Covers,  tin,  to  heat,  note,  187. 
Cow-heels,  to  boil,  99. 

gravy  of,  for  mock-turtle,  167. 

gravy  of,  for  fish-turtle,  211. 

sauce  fcNT,  99. 

to  pot,  432. 

to  pot  heads,  432. 
Crabe,  to  boU,  216. 

to  pot,  217. 

pie  of,  218. 

sauce  of,  278. 

to  diesB,  hot  and  cold,  218. 
Cianberry-tart,  466. 

jelly,  682. 

gruel.  No.  1146. 
Cranberries,  to  salt,  254 
Crappit  heads,  436. 
Cray-fish,  soup  of,  181. 

an  omauMntal  dish  of,  219. 

to  dress,  213. 
Creams,  obs.  on,  498. 

to  freeze,  499,  600. 
Cream,  Italian,  600. 

another  way,  500. 

ginger,  601. 


Cream,  Tanilla,  501. 

coffee,  608. 

whipt  ooflfiBe,  601. 

ratafia,  602. 

a  plain,  608. 

orange,  602. 

lemon,  603. 

canary  or  sack,  503. 

laspbetry    and    atrawbeRj,    not 
iced,  603. 

pine-apple,  608. 

cocoa-nut,  603. 

to  ice  creams  of  fruit,   Xos.  885 
and  900. 

strawberry  ice,  604. 

raspberry  ice,  604. 

apricot  ice,  604. 

imitation  of  red-fruit  ice,  501 

douted,  612. 

curds  and,  612. 

sour,  for  curries.  No.  154. 

for  coffee,  digfatiy  acid,  69a 
Crime  de  n>$e,  b^. 
Crime  patitsieret  or  cold  custard,  419i 
Croquets  and  rissoles,  358,  40S. 
Crowdie  of  Inveniees  aod  "Rnnn  nhms. 
note,  623. 

of  bntter-milk,  683. 
Crumbs,  to  prepare,  for  cnnnbing  snd 
firying,  and  to  67  crumbs  sad 
parsley,  143. 

another  way,  144. 
Crust,  pie  and  tart,  obaervationBOo, 
and  directions  fw  w»«^w«^  poT- 
paste,  449  to  4S2. 

Fraich  paste  for  hot  pies,  452. 

cheap,  for  raised  meat-piea,  463. 

common,  for  savqury  pies,  453. 

rich,  of  beef-suet,  463. 

common  tart-paste,  453. 

sh(nt,  for  preserved  awBetmeats, 
463. 

venison-pasty,  also  for  lining  tim- 
lialle  shapes,  464. 

fine,  for  ddicato  proservoa,  454. 

paste-royal,  419. 

brioche  patU,  4SXk 

French  pt{f -paste  of  hud,  452. 

of  beef-suet,  462. 

rice  piwto  for  savoury  pies,  454. 
Crusts,  to  grill,  163. 
Croustades,  370. 

Cnbbubed  mutton,  veal,  or  chicken, 
684. 

currie,  684. 
Cucumbers,  to  dress,  252. 

toiwesenre,  628. 

to  stow,  238. 

sauce  of,  239. 

water  of.  No.  1143. 

French  way,  238. 

to  pickle,  295,  296. 

to  serve  with  lamb,  340 


INDSX. 


663 


Cucumiben,  with  minoed  mutton,  340. 

with  beefHBteaks,  Sll.        ' 
CuLLKN,  Dr.,  quoted,  904. 
Culixuu^  lectures,  and  ayllabus  (tf,  by 

P.  Touchwood,  Esq.  39. 
Cura^oa,  548. 
Curds  and  cream,  513. 
Curd-star,  513. 

Curing  meat,  hams,  tongues,  dec.  605 
to61& 

butter,  making  and,  614. 

prepared  salmon  or  ood  roes,  600. 

salmon,  190. 

haddocks.  Finnan,  203. 
Currie,  observations  on,  212,  354. 

fovourito  family,  356. 

of  rabbit,  443. 

to  boil  rice  for.  Reform  Club  vray, 
857. 

calfs  head  to,  391. 

fish  to,  211. 

of  droned  ood,  197. 

chickens,  rabbits,  veal,  355. 

cubbubed,  584. 

of  vegetaUes,  237. 

Indian,  583. 

to  boU  rice  for,  356,  357. 

soup  of,  as  in  India,  or  Mulla- 
gatawQv,  442. 

vmegar,  289. 

sauoe,  275. 

powders,  443, 583. 
Custerd  for  a  centre  dish,  510. 
Custards,  almond,  baked  ditto,  lemon, 

good  oonunon,  510,  511. 
Cutlets,  veal,  to  frv,  139. 

Biaintenon,  of  veal,  326. 

4  la  VeneUenne,  394. 

d  la  Chingara,  394. 

au  Jamban,  394 

a  I'ltaUenne,  395. 

d  la  Minute,  395. 

mutton,  d  la Mainten<m,23l5, 337. 

of  lamb,  with  spfaiage,  341. 

mutton,  Soubise,  395. 

Reform  Club,  336. 

sahnon,  189, 191. 

sauces  for,  Nos.   264,  281,  293, 
318,  691-2-3. 

Damsons,  to  preserve  for  pies,  625. 

tart  or  pie  of,  Nos.  805-808. 

dumplings  of,  "So.  876.^ 
Daubet,  veal,  326. 

of  hare  and  turkey,  or  Dindon  en 
daube,  400. 
Doners  d  la  FaurehetU,  81,  82,  83. 
Denerts,  observations  on,  65. 

bills  for,  67, 71,  72,  79. 

preserves  for,  creams  and  ices  for, 
see  those  heads. 
D«rilled  biscuit,  361. 
Devils  and  diablotins,  to  make,  360. 


Devils  uiddiablotins,  sauces  for,  N  m. 
281,318. 

note  on,  361. 

le  bon  diable,  448. 
Devonshire  junket,  513. 
Diablotms  petits,  406. 
Dindon  en  daube,  400. 
Dinners,  obs.  on,  and  bills   of  fare, 
60-79. 

and  cookery  for  invalids,  680  594. 
Dory,  John,  to  boil,  227. 
Doreet  John,  en  matdote,  410. 
Draughts,  cooling  or  febrifuge,  692, 593. 
Dressing-room,  preparations  for,  595  to 

698. 
Dripping,  to  save,  103. 

to  clarify,  137. 

uses  of,  in  frying,  137. 

for  pie-crust,  463. 
Drops,   oonf(9ctionaxy,   of  cinnamon, 
lemon,  horehound,  ginger,  dove, 
peppermint,  coffee,  dec,  530. 
Ducks,  teal,  and  widgeons,  to  roast,  120. 

to  stew,  with  cabbage,  352. 

with  sauer-crout,  446. 

young,  with  green  pease,  352. 

to  ragout,  two  ways,  353. 

to  hash,  353. 

to  hash  cold  wild-duck,  364. 

to  ragout  wild-duck  or  teal,  354. 

to  roast  wild-duck  or  teal,  120. 

sauces  for,  271,  272. 

ScOmi  of  wUd-duck,  403. 
DuKK  OF  York's  Sauck,  note,  283. 
Dumplings,  suet,    damson,    Norfolk, 
plum,  apple,  currant,  raspberry, 
&c  494,  495. 

net  or  crochet,  494. 
Duteh  puddfaig,  486. 

Mrater  souchy,  212. 

sauce  for  flsh,  281. 

beef,  315. 

Eau  de  Cologne^  two  ways,  695,  596. 

ftMT^,  569. 

de  la  vie,  and  note,  553. 
Edgmgs  to  dishes,  369. 
Eeb,  to  stew,  206. 

to  f^,  and  note  on,  206. 

to  collar,  207. 

to  spitchoock,  207. 

soup  of,  182. 
Bggs*  to  boil  hard  and  peel,  404 

to  preserve,  two  ways,  628. 

to  poach,  366. 

mushroom  and  egg  dish,  367. 

to  fry,  366. 

to  f^,  with  baoon-ham,  or  snii- 
sage,  141. 

Bwiss,  367. 

buttered,  367. 

Scotch,  367. 

asparagus  and  eggs,  368b 


064. 


ikimex* 


Eggi,  obMrvatloiisOD  waysof  dniMliifl, 
387. 

omdat,  and  oba.  tn,  968. 

a  la  eWpf ,  404. 

dimppit.  No.  737. 

d  la  maUre  d%6tH,  504. 

with  Muioe  Robert,  404. 

«gg  and  ham  pattSes,  468. 

9gg-nxiOb,  271. 

poehii  aujut,  note,  No.  787. 

•gg-bidlB  for  turtle-floiip,  167« 

In  aah-fUb  pie,  214,  215.  ' 

plovers',  for  saJads,  No.  239. 
Bndhre,  to  dreu  for  second  ooune,  417. 

In  winter  salads,  obs.  No.  239. 
Eschalot  vinegar,  288* 

wine,  290. 

sauce,  286. 
Enenoe  ot  Cayenne,  285. 

of  lemon  and  Seville  orange  peel, 
286. 

of  ginger,  285. 
Essence  of  allspice,    doves,    mace. 
No.  830. 

of  coffee,  690,  and  note. 

of  ham,  277. 

Fah7  batter,  371. 

Family  and  company  dinners,   bills 
for,  85-79. 

management,  hints  for,  89,  and 
onwards. 
Fawn  or  kid,  to  roast,  127. 
Fermentation,  obs.  on,  648,  649. 
Filter,  cheap  sabstitate,  595. 
FiSB,  Chap.  vi. 

observations  on ,  notes,  &c  185-188, 
195,  200,  202,  204,  206,  209, 
216,  220-223,  226,  226. 

sauces  for,  215,  278-284,  380. 

French  ways  of  dressing,  406-411. 

to  try,  202,  206. 

to  broil,  208. 

to  bake,  190, 191,  202,  208. 

to  curry,  211. 

turtle,  211. 

soups  of,  178-182. 

court  bouillon  for  dressing,  406. 

au  bleu,  407. 

pudding  of,  408. 

rich  pie  of,  215. 

salt,  pie  of,  214. 

forcemeat  for,  182, 196, 209, 210. 

re-warmed,  214. 

various  other  French  dishes   of. 
No.  689,  p.  410. 
For  Receipts  for  Fish  o/aU  kinds, 

ses  the  several  heads  in  the  Index, 
Flan,  d  la  Cald>  Balderstone,  465. 
Flounders,  to  fry,  202,  210. 

au  ffratin,  409. 
Flummery,  several  kinds  of,  515,  516. 
fomentations,  593,  594. 


Fonda,  4M. 

FOToemeat,  or  stidfegB  for  bofled  poul- 
try, 94,  note  lia 

for  roast  pig,  109. 

for  lamb,  114. 

for  veal,  note,  113. 

for  tortey,  nofte,  116. 

for  hare,  118,  126L 

for  goose,  119 

for  ribs,  or  a  fillet  of  beef.  No.  1& 

for  breast  of  veal.  No.  4S4L 

for    shoulder    of     niuttoo    with 
oysters,  386. 

for  parson's  YtsAean,  339. 

for  shoulder  of  Iamb,  341. 

for  a  fowl,  34& 

balls  for  soups,  106. 

fish,  182,  201,  209,  436. 

French  /tirces,    godiveau^    que- 
neUeSt  panadti,  411,  412,  413. 

to  prove,  Na  692,s  p.  411. 
Forks,  to  dean,  634. 
Fowls  to  boil,  obeervatioau  oa,  93, 94 

note  on,  93. 

chicken  cutlets,  349. 

to  mince  or  scallop  cold,  354, 402.  ' 

cold,  d  la  MapQMoUe,  402. 

to  boO  with  rice,  347. 

to  dress,  with  mushrooms,  3^. 

with  oysters,  348. 

to  force,  348. 

Davenport,  850. 

howtowdie,  witii  dra^^iteggs,  43& 

to  ragout,  348. 

to  roast,  116. 

po^deis  aux  Awttrer,  401. 

fricassie  it  la  paysanne^  401. 

d  la  Ravigote,  401. 

poulets  d  la  Tartare,  401. 

d  la  Campire,  401. 

d  la  Chinffara,  400. 

continental  mode  of  dressing  cold, 
349. 

salad  of,  or  game,  401. 

sauces  for,  Nos.  266,  7,  8,  9,  275, 
279,  282  ;  pp.  270-274,  27a 

to  fatten.  No.  1212. 
Frangipane,  419. 
French  Cookkry,  371. 

Observations  on,  371,  2,  3,  4. 
Notes,  151,  2,  332,  and  many 
other  places  of  the  work. 

cookery,  various  modtes  of,  413, 414. 

dinners,  374. 

bills  of  fore  for,  374,  375,  376. 

Orand  bouiUon,  377. 

Grand  consommd,  377. 

Blonde  de  veau,  377. 

Grande  sauce,  378. 
French  beans,  rolls,  puddings,  Ac.  &c 
see  the  respective  heads. 

soups,  383-387,  and  also  Chapu 
SiniPf  144. 


1 


INDEX.. 


665 


French  aaooes,  pp.  978-883,  alao  Chap. 
Stmeet, 
dishes  of  fish,  pp.  406-411. 
of  poultry  and  game,  399-404. 
dishes  of  beef,  387-389. 
of  veal,  389-304. 
of  mutton,  394, 897. 
of  pig  and  hams,  397-399. 
of  hare,  poultry,  and  game, 

399-404. 
of     vegetaUet    and     fruits, 
404-418. 
forcemeats,  411,  412. 
also  many  other  dishes  indden- 
tally  mentioned. 
fashionaUe  small  pastry  fer  en- 
tremets, 419,  420,  421. 
pastry,  452. 
brioche  pastes  420. 
gcOaiu  de  riz^  638. 
{^artreuge  de  pommei,  614. 
mme/euiOety  516. 
«ou2^,516,517,618. 
toasts,  note,  366. 
egg-dishes,  404. 
fruit-cake,  423. 
brioche  aufromoffe,  4lil. 
Fricandean  of  veal,  324. 
Fricandelle,  442. 
Fricassee  of  chickens,  Trtiite,  860. 
d  la  paytanne,  401. 
ofrabbits.  Ko.512. 
of  tripe,  Nos.  626,  766,  743. 
Friar's  chicken,  431. 

skill  hi  cookery   of  moidES    and 
friars,  24,  26. 
Fritters,  batter  for,  406. 
plam,  496. 
rice,  496. 

apple,  ^[wicot,  and  peadi,  496. 
Frendi,  note,  497. 
Indian  meal,  497. 
potato,  246. 
oyster,  225. 
Fruit,  to  gather.  No.  966. 
Jellies  of,  621-525. 
sweet  dishes  of,  613. 
French  dishes  of,  417,  418. 
obs.  <»  preserving,  618 
to  preserve  Jellies,  Jams,    &c., 

520-630. 
to  preserve  without  sugar,  625. 
pies  of,  463. 
tarts  of,  464-6. 
.        puffs  of,  465,  466,  468. 
dumplings  of,  494. 
French  pudding  of,  488. 
fritters  of,  496. 
wines  of,  561-667. 
vinegars  of,  287-289. 
graels  of,  692. 
Fruits,  beverages  of,   for  the   sick, 
693. 


Fruits,  spring  fruit,  or  rhubarb,  to 
dress,  Nos.  203, 1125. 

spring  fruits,  183, 184. 

green  gooseberry  pie,  464. 

rhubarb-pie.  No.  807. 

to  take  out  stains  of,  631. 

pastes  of,  580. 

to  store,  254. 

fruit-cake,  French,  423. 
Frying,  directions  for,  136, 137. 

fats  for,  137. 

to  fry  collops,  cutiets,  chops, 
bacon  and  eggs,  liver  and  bacon, 
sausages,  beef  and  venison  col- 
lops, sweetteeads,  Ac.  136-144. 

herbs  or  crumbs,  143, 144. 

tripe,  143,  436. 

rabbits,  347. 

fish,  202,  203,  204,  206. 

eels,  206. 

sprats,  smelts,  208. 

white  bait,  21& 

pancakes,  496. 

fritters,  496. 
Fumigating  mixture,  60S. 
FusKi.!,  anHBedote  of,  134. 

Gallino  rennet,  621. 
Game,  to  ehooee,  42. 

obsOTvations  on  keeping,  121, 122. 

soups  of.  No.  97,  and  pp.  169, 174. 

to  roast,  120, 121, 122  to  126. 

to  boil,  98. 

to  pot.  No.  431. 

to  devil,  note,  361. 
.  salmis  of,  in  the  French  way,  403. 

te  ragout,  364. 

?ies  of,  468,  460,  460,  46L 
^erigord-pie,  461. 

gravy  of,  to  obtain.  No.  296. 

variety  of  sauces  for,  271, 272,  3, 4. 
Garbure,  a  dish  of  the  North  of  Burope, 

444. 
Garlic  sauce,  266. 
Oateau  de  riz,  636. 

deUevre,3S@. 
Gateaux  de  Nanterrey  No.  717. 

de  Compeigne,  No  717. 
Geese,  how  cured  in  France,  608. 
General's  sauce,  a  store-sauce  fw  fish 

or  meat,  281. 
German  onion-beef,  444. 

saner  crout,  to  prepare,  444. 

duck  with  sauer  crout,  446. 

broth,  or  winter  hoteh-potch,  429. 

bam,  607. 
GiUets,  to  stew,  360. 

soup  of,  173. 

pie  of,  469. 
Ginger,  essence  of,  286. 
Gingerbread,  plain  and  Ane,  538. 

Sir's  Fletcher's,  638. 

nuts,  538. 


606 


INDEX. 


Otaigow  tripe,  434. 

punch,  6S3. 
Olase  and  demi-glaie,  S6S. 

to  glace,  263. 

for  paste,  466. 
Olouoester,  or  Dr.  Jebb'i  Jelly,  584. 

flheew,  imitatton  of,  623. 
Gobbets,  beef  and  veal.  No.  734. 
Oodiveaut  for  patties,  dec  411. 
Gooee,  obs.  on,  note,  120. 

to  roast,  119. 

to  braise,  349. 

to  devil,  Na  650. 

sauces  for,  Nos.  292-8,  263,  275. 

colons  in  stuffing  fw,  119. 

pie  of,  460. 

Christmas  pie  of,  460. 

green  goose.  No.  28. 
Goosebeny  fool,  613. 

pasty,  468. 

i»ie,  464.  , 

am,  622. 
Sttrickjam,683. 

jeUy,  622. 

trifle,  609. 

sauce,  269. 

dumpling.  No.  876. 

vinegar,  SBB7. 
Gooseberries,  to  preserve  red.  No.  990. 
Gourds,  to  dress,  23& 

cheese,  Spanish  fiuhion,  184. 

spring  soup  of  the  cheese,  184. 

soup  of,  184. 

second-course  dishes  of  young,  184. 

young,  hi  white  sauce,  184. 
Gouda  cheese,  626. 
Gratin,  a  French  forcemeat,  412. 
Gravies,  or  stock,  general   directions 
for,  146-160-1-2, 261-2-3,  877-8. 
Gravy,  savouiy  brown,  262. 

the  best  beef,  261. 

dear,  of  cow-heels.  No.  86. 

for  venison,  274. 
Granada  of  veal,  326. 
Orenadinit  390. 
Greens,  to  boil,    233,  obeervations, 

228-9,  and  No.  1. 
Green  geese,  No.  28. 
Greening  for  soups.  No.  76. 

for  modc-turtle-soup,  obs.  166. 
Gruels  of  dllTerent  sorts,  692, 69a 
Gnrase,  to  roast,  black-cock  and  ptar- 
migan, 134. 

pie  <H,  or  moorfowl,  468. 

in  soup,  170. 

taiade  de  ffrause  d  la  Boyer^  124. 

poacher's  soup  of,  or  soup  d   la 
Meg  MerriUet,  174. 

to  pot.  No.  431. 

HaeMe  sauce,  879. 
Hachi*  de  mouUm,  396. 
Haddocks,  in  brown  sauoe,  201. 


HaddodcB,  to  bake,  208. 

to  boil,  with  shrimp  sauoe,  196. 

to  fry,  202. 

Scotch  fashion,  430. 

crappit  heads,  436. 

to  OBRie,  211. 

to  dress  fillets  of,  French  way,  408. 

Finnans,  orrizzared,  203. 

Finnans,  note  on,  204. 

Morav  Frith,  436. 

d  la  WaUtr  £feott,  410. 

to  stuff  and  bake.  No.  149. 
Haggis,  Scotch,  424-6-6. 

hunb's,  426. 

cairs,426. 

royal,  or  Kew  mince,  427. 
Halibut,  204,  Nos.  120-121. 

to  stew,  206. 

to  currie  slices  ctf,  211. 
Hams,  to  choose,  43. 

to  boil,  06,  note,  95. 
Ham,  with  Madeba,  96. 

with  Windsor  beans,  96. 

to  bake,  128. 

to  roast,  or>iin6on  d  la  broefte,  397. 

sauce,  <Mr  essence  of,  277. 

patties  of,  with  eggs,  469. 

patties  of,  with  chicken,  409. 

cutlets  with.  No.  641. 

to  fry,  with  eggs,  141. 
with  Uver,  142. 

to  cure  in  several  ways,  606-7,  and 
No.  1191. 

to  smoke,  612. 

mutton,  to  cure,  607. 

hung-beef,  or  beef-ham.  No.  1188. 
Hambuigh  beef,  316,  316. 
Hare,  to  know  if  old,  42. 

soup  of,  168. 

a  modem  soup  of,  169. 

Cardme's  hare-soup,  a  la  Saint 
OwrgetSM. 

soup  d  la  Meg  MerriUes,  174. 

to  roast  hare,  fitini,  or  Ud,  125. 

to  bake.  No.  37. 

sauces  for,  126,  and  No.  297. 

stuffing  for,  118, 126. 

dvet  of,  386. 

HHfre  en  dattbe,  No.  662. 

^Ueau  de  U^vre,  399. 

to  stew,  345. 

to  broil  cold  for  lundieon,  supper. 
or  Ad^nerd  la/intrehette,  346. 

to  minoe^  432. 

to  hash,  346. 

cakes  of,  346. 

to  Jug,  346. 
Haricot  of  veal,  326. 

oi  mutton,  334. 

of  cold  mutton,  340. 

haricot  brun,  or  d  la  bourgeoioe, 
396. 
Harslet,  pig's.  No.  63. 


INDEX. 


667 


Hash  of  beef,  818. 

of  mutton,   340,  and  Nos.  487, 
651. 

of  veal,  333. 

of  yeniBon,  345. 

of  hare,  340. 

of  ducks,  353. 
Hash  of  wild-fowl,  354. 
Hashes,  obs.  on,  318,  319. 

white  8  luce  for,  276. 

turtle  store  sauoe  for,  275. 
Hatted  kit,  two  ways,  582. 
Herbs,  to  fry,  144. 

to  dry,  254. 

to  store,  253. 

powder  of,  286. 

wines  of,  290. 

vinegars  of,  288,  289. 
Herrings,  to  fry.  No.  136. 

to  dress,  204. 

as  dressed  at  Inverary,  205. 

to  dress  red,  208. 

to  dreBs  pickled,  in  the  French 
way,  209. 

to  broil.  No.  136. 

salted  witii  potatoes,  a  cheap  dish, 
601. 

salmagundi,  a,  220. 

buffed,  p.  208.  No.  147. 
Hessian  soup  and  ragout,  170. 
Highland  Society  on  curing  butter, 

613,  614. 
Hog's  puddings,  or  black,  435. — See 

also  Pork,  and  Pig. 
Honey,  to  run,  628. 
Hor$  d'mivres,  405. 

Note  on,  7^. 
Horseradirii-sauoe,  two  ways,  268. 

powdor,  285. 

vinegar,  280. 

how  best  served  as  a  garnish  at 
table,  59. 
Hot-pint,  Scotch,  to  make,  557. 
Hotch-potch  of  ox-tails,  313. 

Scotch,  excellent,  428. 

winter,  429. 
Howtowdie,  Scotch,  432. 
HuNTKR,  Dr.,  quoted,  Nos.  190,  202, 

391. 
Humtsr's  dinner  for  an  invalid,  684. 

receipt  for  a  stewed  brisket  of  beef, 
308. 

cream-dieese,  625. 
Hunter's  beef,  315. 

bcettTde  chauey  315. 

pie,  observations.  No.  764. 

pudding,  477. 

bread  and  meat  pudding,  447. 

salmi,  hunter's  &8hion,  403. 

loe,  to  use  in  freezing  creams,  500. 
Ice  waterSf  504. 

lemon  water  ice,  504. 


Ice,  orange,  tamarind,  negus,  pine- 
apple water  ices,  504,  505. 
Ifdng  Ibr  cakes,  534. 

for  tarts  and  common  pastry,  466. 
Ice-creams,  499. 

to  freeze,  500. 

cream,  Italian,  500. 

another  way,  500. 

ginger,  501. 

Vanilla,  501. 

coffee,  502. 

whipt  coffee,  501. 

ratafia,  502. 

plain,  502. 

lemon,  503. 

orange,  502. 

canary  or  sack,  608. 

raspberry    and    strawberry,   not 
iced,  503. 

pine-apple,  503. 

apricot,  iced,  504. 

cocoa  nut,  503. 

strawberry,  raspberry,  &c.,  604. 

jellies  freezed  to  keep  shape,  605, 
606,  507. 

of  red  fruits  in  shapes,  607,  608. 
India,  mullagatawny  as  made  in,  442, 

Hindostanee  way  to  boil  rice,  357. 
Indian  meal,  247. 

to  fry  cold  mush  or  pudding,  248. 

hominy,  or  crushed  Indian  com, 
248. 

another  way,  248. 

hominy  ox  hulled  com,  248. 

Johnny  cakes  of,  641. 

fritters  of,  497. 

salado,  252. 

burdwan,  448. 

le  Ixm  diable,  448. 

bread  ftnd  meat,  cm*  koobb^,  447. 

currie,  simple,  683. 

pickle,  296. 
Irish  beef,  316. 

stew,  446, 447. 

tripe,  447. 

pancakes,  496. 

brade  breachd,  546. 

usquebaugh,  a  cordial,  562. 

salmon  pickle,  190. 

Balnamoon  skink,  428. 
Isinglass,  to  melt  for  creams,  499,  and 

N.  B.  No.  90a 
Italian  creams,  500. 

cheese,  obsOTvations,  No.  887. 

pyramid,  516. 

frittov,  observations,  Na  884. 

soup,  385. 

salad,  251. 

pastes  and  Nouille,  imitation  of, 
169. 
Itaiienne  sauce,  rou9te  and  blonde, 
379. 

macaroni-soup,  158. 


668 


INIffiX. 


Jam*,  ttnmberrjt  rtutfbmnry,  gooM- 
berry,  Ettrkk,  mad  Mack  cur- 
rant, 622,  628. 

apsioot  and  {dinn,  623. 
Jargonelle  pears,  to  preeerve,  62Sk 

to  firoBt,  observations,  626. 

to  bake,  614. 

to  stew,  614. 
Jellies,  of  frait,  for  preserving,  621. 

in  shapes  for  the  table,  606  to  608. 
Jelly,  calves'  feet,  606. 

in  orange  skins,  423. 

Madeira  wine,  606. 

orange,  606. 

lemon,  607. 

^I^e,  607. 

peach,  607. 

raspbenry,  607. 

hartshorn,  608. 

Yenus's,  608. 

red  currant,  621. 

white  ditto,  621. 

MadE  currant,  two  ways,  622. 

gooseberry  and  cvanbeny,  622. 

arrow-root,  683. 

Olouocster,  684. 

offish.  No.  174. 

aspic,  383. 
Johnson,  Dr.,  quoted,  26. 
John  Doiy,  to  dress,  227. 

en  matelote,  410. 
Juices  of  fruit  for  drinks,  692. 
JuUeime  soup^  observations,  No.  64. 

Ketchup,  &C. — See  Catsups,  291. 
Kew  minoe,  or  haggis-roj^,  427. 
Kklly,  Michasl,  note,  266. 
Kid,  to  roast.  No.  36. 
Kidney-soup,  174. 
Kidneys,  to  dress,  312. 

for  the  dijewMT  d  la  fimrdutte, 
312,  396. 

mutton.  No.  478. 

to  broU,  No.  40. 

rognoru  de  mauton,  396. 

pudding  of,  489. 
Kitchen  or  cook's  p^>p«r,  286. 
Kitchiner's  store  fish  sauce,  283. 
Kitchens,  observations  era,  39. 

Ladies'  lips,  422. 

judges  of  showy  suppers,  80. 
Lait  tucret  or  sugared  milk,  669. 
Lamb,  to  boil  a  teg  of,  92. 

chops,  to  fry,  140. 

to  roast  a  leg  or  saddle  of,  114. 

to  stuff,  note,  114. 

to  broil  chops  of,  133. 

to  fry  liver  of,  142. 

made-dishes  of,  340. 

breast  pf ,  with  cucumbers,  340. 

leg  of,  with  vegetables,  342. 

to  grill  a  shoulder  of,  842. 


Lamb,  head  and  ragout,  330. 

mint-sauce  for,  268b 

MaUre  <f *  hOtd  butter  for,  N.  B. 
116. 

to  manage  in  carving,  63. 

cutiets  with  spinage,  or  a^Minigus, 
or  mushroom,  341. 

cutlets  with  differtnt  ragoiitst  ob- 
8ervati<»s,  Na  489. 

should^  fltafied,  341. 

steaks  ragout,  341. 

steaks  brown,  two  ways,  341. 

chops  with  potatoes,  342. 

pie,  468. 

English  stew  of  cold  roast,  319. 

head  to  dress,  Scotch,  439. 
Lamb's  stove,  Scotchand  Frendi  ways, 
343. 

sweetbreads  ragout,  341. 

feet,  Nos.  664,  480. 

haggis,  426. 
Lampreys,  to  stew,  206. 
Lard,  to  melt  few  frying,  or  to  make, 

138. 
Larks  and  wheatears,  to  roast,  128. 
L' eau  de  la  vie,  6SS. 

de  Cologne^  two  ways,  696,  696. 
Leek-soup,  or  cock-a-leelde,  427. 

porridge,  439. 
Lemon-cream,  603. 

dieesecakfls,  611. 

custards,  610. 

jeUy,  607. 

iced  water,  604. 

pudding,  483. 

drops,  tablet,   and   barl^-sugar, 
630,  631. 

candied  peel  of,  631. 

sauce,  270. 

and  liver-sauce,  273. 

essence  of,  286. 

tincture  of.  No.  330. 

wine  of,  666. 

brandy,  661. 
Lemons,  to  piokle,  292. 
Lemonade,  common  milk  and  portable, 

659,560. 
Ling,  to  dress  slices  of,  204. 
Lip-salve,  697. 

Liqueurs,  many  excellent  kinds,  648  to 
668. 

lees  of,  for  puddings,  obsorations 
on.  No.  1069. 
Liquors,  to  bottle,  669. 

to  prevent  having  a  oorked  taste, 
670. 
Liver-sauce  for  poultry.  No.  296. 

for  fish,  280. 

and  parsley-sauoe  for  poultry,  ob- 
servations, No.  296. 
Liver,  lamb's,  to  by,  142. 

cairs,  142. 

beef,  314. 


IVUBX* 


669 


liOtMters,  to  diaoae,  NOb  ISo. 
note  on,  810. 
pie  of,  214, 
to  boO,  210. 
to  pot,  ai7. 
haiut  gtnU,  817. 
to  roast,  818. 
to  butter,  818. 
to  fricasBM,  81& 
in  the  Fmch  mode^  218. 
aoap  of,  179. 

■aaoe  of,  for  torbot,  &c.,  878. 
gauoe  for.  No.  166. 
salads  of,  250. 
petUet  vci-au-venti  of,  405. 
patties  of,  470. 
liOTB-apples. — See  Tomata  saucet  268. 

Blacaroni,  or  Italian  soup,  158. 

in  the  richest  Italian  way,  413. 

to  dress,  36a 

Parisian  pudding  of,  481. 

rich  pud^ng  of,  480. 

in  Oamerani  soup,  386. 
Macaroons,  637.    - 
Macedoine  of  roots,  415. 
•  Mackavl,  to  dress,  204. 

pie  of,  No.  162. 

to- fry,  as  No.  136. 

roe-sauce  of,  280. 

with  fine  herbs,  the  same  as  No. 
688. 
Made-dishes,  observationson,  901, 302, 

303,304. 

of  beef,  306. 

of  veal,  321. 

of  mutton,  334. 
Madeira  wine  Jelly,  506.    - 

bam  with,  96. 

fillet  of  beef  with,  316. 
Magnum  bonums,  to  preserve,  527. 
Maids,  to  dress,  No.  187. 
Maintenon  cutlets,  326,  336. 
Manheim  rolls,  to  bake,  545. 
Marrow-bones,  to  oook,  314. 

pudding,  476. 
Marmalade,  Scotch  orange,  683. 

apricot  and  plum,  5^ 

smooth  orange,  524. 

transparent,  624. 

apple,  624. 

peach,  nectarine,  and  quinoe,  No. 
974,  observations  on,  623. 
Mayonnaise,  266. 

atopeO^e,  267. 
Meat,  to  choose,  42,  43. 

to  keep,  No.  3,  p.  100 ;  Nos.  25 
and  20. 

to  cure,  to  salt,  from  606  to  613. 

to  preserve  without  smoking,  613. 
Melted  butter,  to  make,  267,  268,  259. 

to  recover  if  oiled,  note,  258. 

lard,  138. 


Miloos,  to  praBerve,  Na  994. 
MirotoH  de  pommet^  418. 
Milk,  saloop,  and  sago,  681,  588. 

rioe,  680. 

coffee,  501. 

sugared,  or  laii  $uer4,  tt9k 

auM  man's,  669. 

artificial  ass's,  693. 

soup  of,  183. 

porridge  of,  603; 
Milk  punch,  656. 
MiUe  feuiUe,  or  thousand-Itftytd  oak*, 

two  ways,  616. 
MUoon,  447. 
Mincemeat,  466,  467. 
Minoe-piee,  oommon  and  Mptrlatlve, 

466,  467. 
Mhice-ooltopt  of  veal,  betf,  bftvt,  aiid 

venison,  431,  439. 
Mince  of  cold  beef,  819^ 

of  veal,  833,  and  Noe.  600-11. 

loin  of  veal  with,  No.  (MB. 

of  muttott,  340. 
"     of  pig,  No.  600,  also  640,  (170, 671 . 
Mint-sauoe  for  lamb,  868. 
Miser's  sauce,  270. 
Mixed  spices,  286. 
Mock  turtle*80up,  165. 

egg'balls  for,  167. 

another  soup,  167. 
Mock  turtki'soup,  baked,  167. 

calfs  head,  171. 
Mock  caviare,  390. 

caper-sauoe,  969. 
Moorfowl  or  grouse,  to  roMt,  1S4. 

to  broU,  136. 

pie  of,  468. 

soups  of,  168, 169, 170. 

and  No.  97.— See  SalnUt,  DeviU^ 
Nos.  617,  6/3,  674. 

salade  of ,  d  to  /Soysr,  134. 

sauces  for,  Nos.  38,  296,  980. 
Mullet,  to  dress,  311. 
Mullagatawny  soup,  164. 

as  made  in  India,  448. 

to  boil  rice  for,  356,  367. 
Mulled  Mine,  656. 
Muscles,  to  stew,  221,  226. 

to  brown  hi  their  own  Juioe,  No. 
180. 

soup  of,  observations.  No.  104. 

catsup  of,  293. 
Mushrooms,  observations  on,  240. 

to  stew  white  or  brown,  241. 

to  grill,  a  la  BordeUUt,  842. 

sauces  of,  267. 

BeauviUiers'  sauce  of,  382. 

with  veal  sweetbreads,  3&2, 
with  fowl,  No.  514. 
with  eggs.  No.  568. 
catsup  of,  291. 
to  pickle,  296. 
powder  of,  284 


670 


INDEX. 


Mustard,  to  make,  nurions  ways,  890. 

whej  dt  No.  1074. 
Mutton,  to  ehoon,  42. 

obm  itttioM  on  keeping,  90. 

to  boa,  90. 

to  roast,  lOa 

to  roast  a  leg,  hanndi,  or  saddle 
of,  10& 

baked  kg  of,  with  potatoes,  18& 

Gaioon  nubion,  394. 

chops  and  steaks  to  bfoll,  133, 
S96,  897. 

biQ«h«rien«of,  91. 

broth  oi  sheep's  head  and  trotters, 
438. 

to  dressascragwith  Tegetabiee»  33& 

haricot  of  ,  334w 

shoulder  of,  by  a  Sootdi  lady's  re- 
oelpt,  335. 

to  drees  a  fateast  of,  336u 

to  grOI  a  breast  of,  338. 

cutlets,  Maintenon,  338. 

entlets,  Befonn  Club,  836L 

cotdettet  d  la  MimUe,  39& 

eoMetta  au  naturd,  396. 

Soubise  cutlets,  396. 

steaks,  337. 

tongues  of  ,  339. 

Oxford  John  of,  359. 

haricot  brun,  398. 

coUops  with  cucumbers,  837. 

to  roll  a  loin  of,  337. 

to  dress  rumps  and  kidneys  of,  338. 

rognom  de  mouton,  39S. 

friar's  venison,  339. 

English  stew  at  dressed,  319. 

sheep's  or  lamb's  trotters,  339. 

French  mode,  896L 

sheep's  tongues,  two  ways,  339. 

sheep's  bm^,  French  mode,  396. 

made  didiee  of  cold  mutton,  839. 

to  hash,  340. 

minced,  with  cucumbers,  340. 

ptein  casserole  of,  340. 

haricot  of  cold,  340. 

poor  man  of,  note,  340. 

haehis  A  la  PortuguaiH,  898. 

Irish  stew,  448. 

China  chilo,  441. 

hotch-potch  of,  428. 

pie  of,  457. 

hams  of,  007, 808. 

sauces  for  mutton,  —  caper,  Ro- 
bert, cucumber,  poor  man's,  &c. 
>.  260,  270, 273,  274,  and  Nos. 
),  602,  503, 297. 


is>: 


Navets  Vierge,  418. 

Nasturtfauns,  to  pickle,  300. 
modt  caper-sauce  of,  289. 

Natiohaii  Dishxs  from  ^M  onwards. 
For  parHeular  disAer,  tee  the 
dijltimt  heade  4n  the  Index, 


Nectarine-pudding,  No.  484. 
Newmarket  podding,  485. 
Norfolk  dumplings,  495. 

punch,  565. 
Nottingham  pudding,  484. 
Notices  of  meats  in  season,  573,  4,  5. 
Nougat,  French  style,  532. 
Noyau,  two  ways,  549. 
Nute,  qnce  or  gingerlMead,  638. 
NutBoeg,  tincture  of,  28ft 

Olive-sauce  for  duda  and  bed'-steaks, 

272. 
Olives  of  beef,  313. 

au  roiy  313. 

of  cold  beef,  31& 

of  veal,  323. 

pies  of  veal  ofiven  455,  458. 
Olio,  441. 
Omelet,  388. 

obB.(ni.  388. 

eoufflSy  517. 
Omdettee  d  la  edestine,  41& 
Onions,  to  stew  and  roast,  287. 

obs.  on,  note,  287. 

obe.  on,  note,  158. 

to  cook,  for  garnishing  boaiBi,  286k 

for  tripe.  No.  118. 

white  sauce  of,  284. 

brown  sauoe  of,  2id6. 

sage  and  onion  sauoe,  285. 

to  pickle,  297. 

to  pickle  with  cucumbers,  298. 

to  pickle  with  cabbage,  298. 

soups  of,  155, 168, 157. 

gravy  of,  with  beef  coBope,  note, 
139. 
Oranges,  marmalade  of,  523,  524. 

calves'  fieet  jeOy  in  skins  of,  423. 

pudding  of,  488. 

JeUycf,  508. 

cream  of,  602. 

ice  oit  as  No.  906. 

gravy  for  sauce,  271. 

conserve  oi  Seville,  No.  975. 

juice  of,  603. 

candied  peel  of,  531. 

wine  of,  586. 

to  preeerve  carved,  529. 

to  pickle  bitter  ones,  300. 

essence  of  ped  of,  285. 

in  sugar,  628. 
Ornamental  devices  oi  sugar,  532. 
Ortdbms,  to  dress,  123. 
Oxford  John,  of  mutton,  &&,  860. 

sausages,  369. 
Ox-tails,  soup  of,  173. 

to  stew,  313. 

hotch-potch  of,  or  ramps  d  la  mtode, 
313. 
Ox,  potted  head  and  hed  of,  432. 

kkfaiey,  312,  308. 

liver,  314. 


INDEX. 


671 


Ox  udder,  315. 

palAtes,  310,  French  way,  387. 

skirts,  314. 

marrow-bones,  314. 

heart,  S14. 

tongne,  311,  387,  388. 

tripe,  98, 143, 434,  435,  447.    For 
other  things,  tee  Bskv  index. 
Oysters,  obs.  on,  note,  220. 

to  stew,  220. 

to  scallop,  223. 

togrm,223. 

to  brown  in  their  juioe,  224. 

to  serve  in  the  shdl,  224. 

to  pickle,  224. 

to  fry,  225. 

Mtters  of,  225. 

sauce  of,  279. 

soups  of,  180, 181. 

patties  of,  470. 

patties  of,  with  mushrooms,  470. 

catsup  of,  293. 

with  a  fowl,  348. 

pouktt  aux  huitres,  401. 
Ojspet  taverns  of  Edinburgh,  note,  222. 

Pains  d  la  duehesse,  420. 
Palates,  to  stew,  310. 

French  way,  387. 
Panada,  French,  for  forcemeat,  412. 

various  kinds  of,  for  children  or 
invalids,  585. 
Pancakes,  common,  495. 

fine,  495. 

Irish,  496. 

rice,  496. 

note  on  the  French  old-feshioned 
khid,  495. 
Parmesan,  British,  622. 

with  cauMower,  230. 

with  macaroni-soup,  158. 

Camerani  soup,  386. 
Parsley,  to  fry,  143. 

to  dry,  253. 

parsley  and  butter  sauce,  259. 

parsley  and  liver  sauce,  obs.  No. 
295. 
Parsnips,  235. 

with  salt  cod,  No.  128. 

mashed  with  carrots.  No.  201. 
Partridges,  toroast,  Nos.  31,  and  p.  121. 

pheasants,    snipes,    Trild    ducks, 
&C.,  to  boil,  98. 

to  broil,  or  moor-game,  135. 

soup  of,  168, 170, 174, 175. 

pie  of,  p.  460,  and  No.  800. 

salmi  of,  40a 

sportsman's  fashion,  403. 
Partans  (see  Crabs)  to  pot,  217. 

to  boil,  p.  216. 

to  dress,  hot  or  cold,  and  Scotch 
partan  pie,  218. 

caves,  note,  278. 


Partans,  crab-sauce,  278. 

Paste  or  pie-crust,  obs.  on,  449,  450. 

French  puff-paste,  452. 

Do.  of  lard,  452. 

Frendi,  for  hot  pies,  452. 

various  kinds,  450-454. 

puff-paste,  451. 

cheap  raised  crust,  453. 

conuBon  crust,  453. 

rich,  of  beef-suet,  453. 

common  tart-paste,  453. 

short  crust,  463. 

venison-pasty  crust,  454. 

royal,  419. 

rice-paste  for  savoury  pies,  454. 

for  savoury  patties,  469. 

fine,  for  cheesecakes,  454. 

of  fruits,  530. 

Brioche,  420. 
Pasty»  aiqsle  and  rhubarb.  No.  817. 

venison,  461. 

potato,  493. 
Patties,  crust  for,  469. 

chicken  and  ham,  469. 

egg  and  ham,  469. 

rabbit  and  hare,  470. 

oyster,  470. 

oyster  and  mushroom,  470. 

turkey,  471. 

veal  and  ham,  471. 

beef  or  podovies,  471. 

French  or  modem  English,  471. 

sweet,  472. 
Paysanne,  blanqttette*  d  la,  393. 

fricassee  of  chickens  a  la,  401. 
Pears,  to  bake,  514. 

to  stew,  514. 

in  the  French  mode,  417,  418. 

to  preserve  jaigoneUe,  525. 

to  frost  or  ice.  No.  984. 
Peaches,  jelly  of,  507. 

Jam  or  marmalade  of,  as  No.  974. 

to  preserve.  No.  988. 

pudding  of.  No.  856. 

in  sugar,  418. 
Peas,  to  gather  and  boil,  231. 

French  mode  of  dressing,  415l 

sauce  or  pur^e  of,  416. 

asparagus  peas,  415. 

green  pease-soup,  maigre,  160. 

green  pease-soup,  obs.  on,  152. 

yellow  pease-soup,  161. 

pudding  of,  163. 

cheap  do.,  603. 

young,  with  4}icklings,  353. 

to  preserve  green,  253. 
Pepper-pot,  172. 
Pepper,  cook's  or  kitchen,  286. 

white.  No.  335. 

obs.  on,  286. 

Cayenne,  to  make,  286. 
Pepper-vinegar,  to  make,  288. 
Pwohes,  to  stew,  205. 


672 


INDEX. 


Perches  au  vin,  or  in  wine,  409. 
a  la  maitre  d*hdtel»  409. 
to  fry,  No.  145,  and  p.  202. 
Perfiune,  a  cheap,  596. 
Perigord-pie,  461. 

Pheasants  and  partridges,  to  roast,  121. 
Pickles,  obs.  on,  294,  295. 

to  Iiasten  the  prepaiation  of,  900. 

to  green,  295. 
Pickle,  cucumbers  to,  295. 

French  beans  to,  296. 

cucumbers  and  (uiions,  296. 

walnuts  to,  green,  296. 

mushrooms,  to,  296. 

onions,  297. 

red  cabbage,  298. 

beetroot,  298. 

Indian  pickle  or  picallilli,  298. 

barberries  for  gamidiing,  299. 

bitter  oranges,  to,  900. 

lemons,  to,  900. 

melons,  to,  299. 

cauliflower  and  brocoU,  900. 

nasturtiums,  to,  900. 

various  things  that  are  pickled,  900. 

barberries  and  sundiy  vegetables, 
to  salt  or  keep  in  pickle,  254. 

for  beef,  610, 11. 

for  salmon,  or  BaUyshannon,  190. 

souse,  or  pickle  to  keep  for  cold 
fish,  obs.  No.  119. 
Pie,  beef-steak,  454. 

tripe.  No.  780. 

plain  veal,  455. 

a  richer  veal,  455. 

a  very  rich  veal,.  455. 

veal  olive,  455. 

rich  veal  olive,  Scottish,  456. 

calTs  head,  to  eat  cold,  456. 

calTs  feet,  457. 

a  bride's,  457. 

a  mutton,  457. 

a  squab.  No.  788. 

a  lamb,  458. 

pigeon,  458. 

moorfowl,  458. 

a  hare,  459. 

a  rabbit,  or  Fife,  460. 

a  chicken,  459. 

giblet,  459. 

partridge,  460. 

a  goose,  460. 

a  Christmas,  460. 

Perigord,  461.  • 

venison,  461. 

a  rook,  462. 

a  rich  fish,  tnaigret  219. 

lobster,  214. 

eel,  mackerel,  or  herring.  No.  162. 

a  shrimp  or  prawn,  214. 

an  excellent  salt-fish,  214. 

a  rich  fish,  215. 

partan  or  crab,  218. 


Pies,  crust  for,  449  to  454. 
to  glaze  crust  for,  466. 
sauces  for  fish,  2l5. 
savouiy  jeUiy  for  fish.  No.  174. 
meat  for  small,  to  prendre,  472. 
and  No.  692.  *-«"--»» 

fruit,  crust  for,  453. 

apple-pie,  469. 

cherry,    currant,  damson,   fdum, 

apricot,  raspberry,  and   goow- 

berry.  No.  806. 
gooseberry,  464. 
rhubarb,  464. 
and  tarts  of  any  sort  of  preserved 

fruit,  464,  6. 
mlnoe,  common,  and  superlative, 

466L 
Pig,  to  roast,  and  sauoe  and  staffing 

for,  108,  9.  * 

to  roast,  English  mode,  110. 
soup  of  pettitoes,  189. 
head  of;  to  collar,  898. 
Scotch  way,  439. 
au  maine  blanc,  397. 
to  dress  eold  roast,  399. 
sausages  of  pig-meat,  359,  60. 
to  salt,  606,  607,  612. 
Pig's  cheek  stuffed,  French  mode,  998. 
cheek,  by  a  Scotch  la4y's  receipt, 

pettitoes,  943. 

harslet,  No.  59,  p.  142. 
Pigeons,  to  roast,  and  sauoe  for,  125. 

to  broil,  194,  35. 

to  stew  brown,  951. 

to  ragout  brown,  951. 

to  braise  with  mushrooms,  949. 

to  ragout  with  asparagus,  351. 

obs.  on  ways  of  dressing,  951. 

pie  of,  458. 

currie  of,  as  No.  594. 

soup  of,  169. 
Pike,  to  stuff  and  bake,  209. 

in  the  French  mode,  or  a  la  Oene- 
voisct  407. 

Isaak  Walton's  receipt  for,  note, 
209. 

cold  fillets  of,  a  la  maitre  d'hote, 
409. 
Pilau  of  veal,  441. 

of  fowl,  440. 
Phie-apple  cream,  503. 

water  ice,  505. 
Pipers,  to  dress,  211. 
Plaice,  to  dress,  210. 
Plovers,  to  roast,  123. 

eggs  of,  in  salads.  No.  239. 
Pluck,  calfs,  327. 

lamb's,  990. 
Plum-porridge,  440. 
Plum-cakes,  594,  5. 
Plum-puddings,  474,  5,  6. 
Plum-buns,  542. 


INDEX. 


673 


Plums,  magnum  bonums,  to  presenre, 

greengages,  No.  968u 
dajnsons  for  pies  and  puddings, 
525. 
Plstoxl's  sauce  for  game,  271t 
Poaeher's  soup,  174. 
Podovies,  471. 
Polenta,  498. 
Pot-pourri,  595. 
Pope's  posset,  558. 
Pope,  a  liot,  spioed  wine,  note,  656. 
Pork,  to  choose,  42. 

to  boil  bacon  v,  97. 

leg  of,  to  boil,  96. 

to  cure,  606  to  612. 

to  roast,  115. 

chops,  to  broil.  134. 

chops,  to  fi7, 140. 

ham,  with  Windsor  beans,  96. 

ham,  to  braise  with  BCadeira,  96. 

hams,  to  roast,  French  mode,  397. 

sausages  of,  several  kinds,  359. 

sayaloys,  360. 

Mood-puddings,  ^5. 

harslet  of,  1^. 

porker's  dieek,  434. 

Hure  de  co<^on,  390. 

hams,  to  cure,  606,  607. 

to  glaze  hams,  262,  263. 
orridge,  plum,  440. 
Potages. — See  8oupt. 
Potatoes,  oba.  on,  242,  243. 

to  mash,  244. 

in  forms,  245. 

to  roast,  24a 

to  fry  or  broil,  and  note,  244. 

Westphalia  loaves  of,  245. 

puddings  of,  489. 
Potato-snow,  246.      > 

balls,  245. 

baDs,  ragout  or  savoury,  245. 

collar,  245. 

fntters,  246. 

soup,  163. 
Potatoes,  French   mode   for  nursery 
dinners,  245. 

d  la  maUred'hdtel,  417. 

with  hunter's  pie,  446. 

catocannon  of,  2^. 

to  mash  witti  parsnips.  No.  201. 

with  lamb-chops,  342. 
-  with  beef-steaks,  133. 

with  salt  fish,  214. 

pasty  of,  493. 

for  breakfast,  440. 

substitutes  for,  446,  447. 
Pot,  to,  beef,  321. 

veal  and  game,  321. 

veal,  334. 

lobsters  and  crabs,  217. 

cheese,  364. 

herrings  and  mackerel  as  at  204. 


Pot,  salmon,  191. 

cow-head  and  cow-heels,  432. 

to  clarify  butter,  to,  187. 
Posset,  the  Pope's,  558. 

ale,  65& 

sadc,  557. 
Poultry,  to  choose,  42,  4a 

to  fotten,  627. 

note  on,  93. 

to  boil  and  truss,  93. 

to  roast,  116, 117, 118. 

to  broU,  134. 

made  dishes  of,  847  to  866. 

sauces  for,  266  to  274. 

French  dishes  of,  899  to  4051 

cold,  to  dress  rissoles  and  croquets 
of,  402L 

puddings  of,  412. 

forcemeats  of,  411,  412. 

See    alio   the    different    headSt 
FowUf  Chicken*,  Sfc. 
Powder,  horseradish,  S86. 

mushroom,  284. 

anchovy,  284. 

of  fine  herbs,  28& 
Prawns,  pie  of.  No.  160,  p.  214. 

to  dress,  Nos.  174, 186. 
Preserve  barberries,  to,  299. 
Preserves  of  fruits,  obs.  on,  518,  519. 

to  boil  sugar  for,  520. 

various  preserves,  521  to  530. 

degant  preserves  of  firuit,  525  to 
530. 

See  also  the  rttpec^ve  heads  in 
Index. 
Provence  salt  fish,  445. 
Prunes,  to  stew,  592. 

tart  of,  466. 
Puchero,  Spanish,  444. 
Puddings,  obs.  on  making,  472,  473, 

474. 
Pudding,  oonunon  Plum,  474. 

a  superfine  plum,  475. 

obs.  on,  475. 

a  marrow,  476. 

a  hunter's,  477. 

a  bread,  478. 

bread  and  butter,  485. 

for  invalids  and  children,  681. 

a  brown  bread,  crust,  or  save-all, 
No.  836. 

a  rice,  478. 

delicate  small  rice,  479. 

cheap  rice,  note,  479. 

castle  or  Sutherland,  479. 

sago,  479. 

tapioca,  479. 

cheese,  481. 

rich  macaroni,  480. 

Parisian  macaroni,  481. 

vermioeUi,  482. 

custard,  482. 

batter,  482. 

2u 


«74 


INDEX. 


Podding,  nteiU,  483. 

abnond,  time  kinds  of,  483. 

orange,  483. 

lemon,  483. 

Swiss  apple,  484. 

apple,  484. 

Nottingham,  484. 

apricot,  484. 

peach,  No.  868. 

nectarine,  No.  856. 

Kooseberry,  48& 

Newmarlrat,  486. 

ClianoeUor's  or  cabinet,  485. 

ginger,  486. 

college,  480. 

in  haste,  486. 

Northmnberiand,  486. 

Ihitch,  486. 

Welsh,  old  iUiioned,  487. 

anotlier,  or  onion-clieese,  487. 

potato-flour,  487. 

George,  487. 

French  frait-pudding,  or  Char- 
lotte, 48& 

Yorkshire,  488. 

potato,  489. 

icidney,  489. 

Scotch  white,  433. 

livor,  433. 

blood  or  black,  435. 

flne,  in  skins,  435. 

French  meat,  d  la  Richdieu,  412. 

plum,  common  small,  474. 

Trinity  Christmas,  475. 

The  St.  Ronan's  Plum,  476. 

cheap  plum,  60S. 

Alderman's,  No.  834. 

BakeweU,  480. 

Welsh,  or  the  (Quaker's,  480. 

sponge  cake,  481. 

the  Manse,  484. 

Charlotte  Prussienne,  401. 

French  iced  fashionable,  490. 

pine-apple,  480. 

Cardme's  Nesselrode,  491. 

Parisian  iced  apple,  491. 

rump-steak,  4^ 

kidney,  489. 

fish,  408. 

bean,  two  ways,  602. 

pease,  163.  ^ 

cheap  do.  003. 

sauces  for,  276, 277,  477. 

cream-sauce  for,  487. 

French,  omelettes  d  la  Celettinet 
418. 

franffipane,419. 

crime  patitiiere,  419. 
PuU  dTqimour,  Nos.  954,  966. 
PuflT-paste,  to  make,  451,  462. 
Puffs,  apple,  lemon,  cheese,  466,  468. 
Punch  d  la  Romaintt  654. 

Regent's,  668. 


Punch,  GkUBOW,  653. 
milk,  656. 
Norfolk,  566. 

Queen's  cakes,  641. 

Queen's,  or  Soupe  d  la  Heine,  155. 

Quenelles,  411. 

of  poultry,  412. 
Quin's  fish-saace,  282. 
QuiN,  note  on,  28S. 

Rabbit  corrie,  Scotch,  443. 
Rabbits  of  cheese,  Scotch,  366. 

Welsh,  note,  3^6. 
Rabbite,  to  boil,  obs.  98. 

to  f5ry,  347. 

to  currie,  364,  443. 

to  ragout,  348. 

to  ragout,  N.B.  to  No.  435. 

to  smother,  98,  347. 

d  la  Venetienne,  399. 

Boudins  of,  d  la  Bichelieu,  412. 

soups  of,  as  Nos.  89,  90,  97. 

pie  of,  460. 

patties  of.  No.  823. 

sauces  for,  Nos.  260,  267,  268. 
Ramakins,  363. 

pastry,  363, 
Raapbeny-jam,  522. 

Jelly,  507. 

vinegar,  289. 

ice-cream,  504. 

cream,  not  iced,  503. 

brandy,  552. 

dumpling,  494. 

tarts,  46a 
Ratafia,  common  and  red,  551,  552. 

pudding,  483. 

cream,  502. 

drops,  631. 

cakes,  macaroons,  637. 
Receipts,  useful  miscellaneous   ones, 

629-638. 
Red  cabbage,  to  dress,  239. 

to  pickle,  298. 

herrings,  to  dress,  208. 
Rkdoill's  sauce  for  stubble  gooee  or 
pork,  272. 

sauce  piquant,  for  fish   or    odd 
meat,  282. 
Rennet,  to  make,  620. 

Gallino,  No.  1203. 
Rhubarb-pie,  464. 

dumpling,  as  No.  876. 

pasty.  No.  817. 

soup.  No.  109. 
Rice,  to  boH  for  currie,  356,  357. 

Hindostanee  mode,  357. 

savoury,  for  CkUeau  de  ri»,  636. 

puddings  of,  two  kinds,  and  note, 
478,  479. 

fritters  or  pancakes  of,  496. 

snow-balls  of,  615. 


INDEX. 


675 


Rice,  battered,  515. 

flummery  of,  515. 

blancmange,  610. 

souffle  of,  517. 

apples  rolled  in,  514 

calce  of,  for  a  second  coarse,  the 
Oateauderiz,5SS, 

cake  oit  535. 

sauce  of,  271. 

soups  of,  383, 384. 

a  cheap  soup  oi,  176L 

rice  milk,  5^. 

cheap  pudding  of,  601. 

paddings  of,  in  skins.  No.  744. 

substitute  for,  note,  479. 

casserole  of,  French,  370. 

casserole  of,  English,  370. 

paste  of,  for  savoory  pies,  454. 
Richard  Cceua  dk  Lion,  gourmand 

uiecdote  of,  note,  134. 
Rissoles,  French,  358,  402. 

CarSme's  receipt  for,  402. 
RoASTiNO. — Chap.  III.  100. 

discourse  on,  100. 

length  of  time  for,  571,  572. 
Roebuck,  civet  of,  387. 
RooBRsoN,  a  celebrated   gourmand, 

note,  282. 
Roffnonty  338,  395,  312. 
liook-pie,  462. 
Roux,  or  thickening  in   the  French 

mode,  white  and  brown,  259. 
Rout-cakes,  542. 
Rum  shrub,  559. 
Rump,  to  braise  or  ragout,  305. 

to  boil  with  greens,  88. 

to  braise,  or  d  2a  mode,  307. 

A  la  geiU  or  d  la  roydk.  No.  390. 

to  salt,  608. 

as  Hfunbnrgfa  spiced  beef,  315. 

with  glazed  onions  iL  la  Franeaite, 
38& 

another  way,  389. 

to  dress  a  cold  stewed,  389. 

as  Irish  beef,  316. 

as  hunter's  betf ,  315. 
Rumps  and  kidneys,  sheep's,  338. 

rumps,  or  tails  d  la  mode,  two 
ways,  312,  313. 

rump  or  ox-tail  soup,  17.>. 

calves'  rumps,  328. 
Russian  yeast,  547. 
Ruglen  cream,  582. 

Back  or  canaiy  cream,  503. 

posset,  557. 

whey.  No.  1074.. 
Sago  milk,  582. 

pudding,  479. 

as  a  sapper  dish,  or  for  invalids, 
583. 
Salads,  obs.  on,  248,  249. 

English  summer  salad,  260, 


Salads,  lobster  salad,  250. 

Parisian  salad   and   Macedoine, 
250. 

an  Italian  salad,  251. 

boiled  salad,  252. 

winter  salad,  252. 

cucumber,  to  dress  as,  252. 

game  or  fowl  salad,  401. 

salade  degroute  d  la  Sdper,  124. 

Indian  salado,  252. 

uncooked  Ravigote,  382. 

remoulade,  381. 

Montpelier  butter  for  ornament- 
ing aspic  Jelly,  381. 
Sally  Lunn  cakes,  546. 
Salmagundi,  a,  ^0, 
Salmi  of  wild  duck,  40a 

sauce  for,  381. 

of  partridges,  403. 

sportsman's  fashion,  403. 
Salmon,  obs.  on,  185  to  188. 

to  boU,  185. 

to  boil  crimp,  188. 

to  bake,  and  obs.  on,  190. 

to  pot,  191. 

to  collar,  19L 

to  pickle  cold,  190. 

to  grill,  or  cutlets  of,  189. 

other  cutlets,  or  steaks  of,  191. 

to  kipper,  190. 

chine  of,  to  grill,  note,  189. 

to  bake  salmon  trout,  191. 

to  souse,  obs.  No.  113. 

saumon  d  la  QenevoUe,  N.  B.  407. 

sauces  for,  188, 189,  and  Nob.  112, 
310,  312,  313. 

prepared  roe  of,  note,  609,  610, 
Saloop  milk,  681. 
Salpi9ons,  403. 
Salting,  605  to  615. 

butter,  614,  615,  616. 
Salt  flsh,  to  dress  ling,  tusk,  and  cod, 
198. 

pie  of,  214. 

Provence  brandade,  446. 
Sandwiches,  obs.  on,  362. 

to  make,  362. 

cheese  sandwich,  362. 

sweet. — See  No.  819. 
Sauces.— Chap.  YIII.  obs.  on,  255, 
256,  267. 

to  melt  butter  for,  257. 

to  oU  butter,  25& 

to  brown  butter,  258. 

to  thicken  butter  to  sauce  pease 
and  other  vegetables,  or  for 
salads,  258. 

to  recover  oiled  butter,  note,  258. 

to  melt  butter  in  cream,  259. 

Roux,  brown  and  white,  to  make, 
250. 

thickening  brown,  260,  an4  note, 
259. 


Cue 


INDEX. 


Bauoes,  beef-gravy  for  sauces,  261. 

savtMiry  brown  gravy,  262. 
Sauce,  white  gravy-sanoe,  v^ouU,  or 

white  cullis,  268. 
parsley  and  butto',  259. 
fennel*  basil,  bumet,  chervil,  tar- 
ragon, and  cress  sauces,  264. 
parsley  and  celery  seed  sauce,  obs. 

264. 
salad,'  No.  233,  p.  260. 
onion-sauce,  264. 
brown  onion,  265. 
sage  and  onion,  265. 
eschalot,  265. 
garlic,  266. 
Mayonnaite^  266. 
MaifOHnaise  d  la  gell4e,  267. 
white  mushroom,  for  fowls,  veal, 

^e.,  267. 
white  celery,  for  fowls,  267. 
lMt)wn  odery,  268. 
horsemdidi,  white  and  brown,  268. 
cucumber,  oba.  No.  210. 
cheptnnt,  fbr  turkey  and  fowls, 

272. 
mint,  for  lamb,  268. 
sorrel,  268. 
tomata,  268. 
French  tomata,  obe.  268. 
apple,  269. 
gooseberry,  269. 
caper,  269. 
mock  caper,  269. 
Bechamel,  or  the  French  white, 

269,  379. 
Tartar,  270. 
olive,  for  ducks  and  beef-steaks, 

272. 
for  flsii  and  fish  pies,  216. 
lemon,  270. 
miser's,  270. 
poor  man's,  270. 
Carach,  270. 
bread,  271. 
rioe,  271. 

egg,  for  fish  or  poultry,  271. 
Plxydkl's,  for  game,  271. 
our  own,  for  game,  271. 
Dr.  Huntkr's,  for  game  or  coM 

meat,  272. 
Rbdoill's,  for  stubMe  goose  or 

pork,  272. 
Reform  Club,  for  mutton  cutlets. 

No.  475. 
Robert,  for  mutton  or  pork  chops, 

273. 
lemon  and  liver,  for  fowls,  273. 
liver  and  parsley,  obs.  No.  295. 
cheap,  for  white  fricaaseee,  273. 
the  Marquis's,  for  wild  fowl,  274. 
game-gravy,  obs..  No.  296. 
vmison-sauoes,  Noe.  21, 22,  and  p. 

274. 


Sauce,  turtle  store,  275. 
turtle,  275. 
store,  for  steaks,  275. 
currie,  275, 583. 
chetney  or  chatn4,  276. 
Ravigote  butter,  382. 
the  aspic  or  savoury  omamenlaX 

JeUy,383. 
white  hash,  276. 
custard,  276. 

caudle,  for  puddings,  277. 
store-pudding,  277. 
cream,  487. 

ham,  or  essence  of  ham,  277. 
Duke  of  York's,  note,  283. 
MicHAKL  Kelly's,  note,  286. 

Sill,  for  devils,  chops,  dec,  280. 
r  boiled  turkey,  fowls,  or  Teal, 
94. 
Sauces  for  fish-pies,  or  for  freah-flsh, 
215. 

of  shell.flsh,  and  fish-sauces,  278. 

lobster  or  crab,  278. 

crab,  27& 

sauce  d  VAurore,  278. 

oyster,  for  boiled  turkey  or  iisb, 
279. 

shrimp  and  cockle,  279. 

anchovy,  279. 

liver,  for  fish,  280. 

a  plain  fish-sauce,  280. 

mackerel  roe,  280. 

old  Admiral's,  280, 

Dutch  fish,  281. 

excellent  store  English,  281. 

the  General's,  281. 

Dr.  Rsdoill's  piquant,  for  fish 
or  cold  meat,  ^2. 

Ejtchinkr's  store  fish,  superla- 
tive, 283. 

store  fish  sauce,  226. 

forcemeats,  stuffings,  &c,  284. 
Saucss,  Frcnch. 

Haifont  for  thickening,  380. 

hUmde  de  veau,  377. 

grande  sauce^  878,  263. 

Uttice  Espagnole,  878. 

vdouU,27S. 

d  la  Bechamd,  379. 

lnx>wn  Italian,  379. 

white  Italian,  379. 

d  la  maitre  d'hdtd,  379. 

another,  379. 

$auce  HoUandaitet  for  fish,  380. 

$auce  hach6ey  379. 

d  la  Tartare,  French  way,  379. 

uiuce  Untm^ey  380. 

tauce  d  la  phiche,  380. 

$auce  d  VAllemand,  or  German, 
380. 

a  la  matdote,  for  fish,  380. 

common  sanoe  mateMe,  381. 

reoHwlade,  381. 


INDEX. 


677 


1 


Sauces,  French ,  salmi  saace,  d  VEtpag- 
noUt  a  game  sauce,  381. 

poivrade  sauce,  381. 

Montpelier  butter,  381. 

dressed  RaviffoUy  or  French  salad- 
sauce,  382. 

CaremeSy  for  puddings,  477. 

cold  or  uncooked  Rav^trie,  382. 

muduroom-sauce,  382. 

la  duceUe,  382. 

umer  crout^  German,  444. 
Sausages,  to  fry  fresh,  14CL 

poric,  359. 

Oxford,  d5&. 

Epping,  369. 

Bologna,  359. 

Beauvilliers',  359. 

common  beef,  360. 

smoked  Scotch,  360. 

with  turkey,  note,  116. 

Savaloys,  360. 
Havoury  patties,  468  to  472. 

crust  for,  469. 

Jelly  for  fish-pies,  Nos.  163,  164, 
174 

pies,  obs.  on,  452. 

pies,  452. 
toasts,  362. 
Savoys,  to  boil,  233. 
Savoy  cake,  537. 
Scallops,  oyster  or  cockle,  223. 
of  beef.  No.  423. 
of  cold  chicken,  402. 
of  potato,  No.  220. 
Scotch  Dishss,  424. 
haggis,  424,  425,  426. 
lamb's  haggis,  426. 
calTs  haggis,  426. 
haggis  royal,  427. 
(at  brose,  427. 
kail-brose,  427. 
cock-a-leekie,  427. 
inky-pinky,  321. 
hotch-potch,  428. 
winter  hotch-potch,  429. 
leek-porridge,  439. 
plum-porridge,  440. 
skink,  an  old-fashioned  soup,  430. 
friar's  chicken,  431. 
fish  uid  sauce  maigre,  430. 
another  way,  430. 
crappit  heads,  436. 
barley  broth,  176. 
boiled  gigot,  90. 
soup  dla  Meg  MenHHeSy  174. 
sheep's-head  broth,  436. 
sheep's-head  ragout,  obs.  438. 
pan-kail  and  kail,  440. 
old  Scotch  brown-fR>up,  153. 
old  §oupe  d  la  reine,  154. 
Sootdi  hare-soup,  168. 
knuckle  of  veal  soup,  172. 
minced  coUops,  431. 


Scotch  Dishes,  venison,  veal,  and  har6 
minced,  432. 
venison-coUops,  344. 
red  and  roe  deer,  to  roast,  112. 
coUops  in  the  pan,  138. 
lamb's  stove,  343. 
lamb's  head  dressed,  439. 
calfs  or  lamb's  head  and  pluck 

ragout,  330. 
lamb's  liver,  142. 
beef-heart,  314. 
eggs,  dish  of,  367. 
howtowdie  and  drappit  eggs,  432. 
rabbit  currie,  443. 
rabbit  of  cheese,  365. 
veal  flory.  No.  785. 
bride's  pie,  457. 
pig,  to  roast,  433. 
pig's  cheek,  434. 
poor  man  of  mutton,  note,  340. 
shoulder  of  mutton,  Scotch  lady'« 

receipt,  335. 
friar's  venison,  339. 
tripe,  to  fry,  435. 
Glasgow  tripe,  434. 
white,  suet,  and  blood  puddings. 

433,  435,  436. 
fitless  cock,  436. 
shortbread,  537. 
petticoat-tails,  540. 
Athole  brose,  559. 
auk!  man's  milk,  559. 
hot-pint,  557. 
diet  h»f,  636. 
bun,  543. 

ood's  head  and  shoulders,  19$. 
hatted  kit,  582. 
Corstorphine  cream,  682. 
Sea-kale,  No.  190. 

Frendi  mode,  416. 
Sea-pie,  462. 
EHiallot  wine  and  vinegar,  288.  —  See 

Efchalot,  290. 
Sherry  Coblers,  mint  julep,  gia-slings, 

664. 
Shortbread,  Scottish,  537. 

Derby  short  cakes,  .'341. 
Shrimp  pie  maigre,  214. 

sauce,  279. 
Shrimps,  to  pot,  217. 
Shrubs,  rum,  brandy,  and  currant,  569. 
Sfaap  zigar  cheese,  imitation  of,  625. 
Sippets,  to  fry  and  cut.  No.  67;  for 

borders,  369. 
Skate,  to  choose,  note,  200. 
to  boil,  200. 
another  way,  200. 
to  tease,  199. 
to  crimp,  fiOl. 
sauces  for.  No.  132. 
Frendi  way  of  dressfng,  obe.  No. 

133. 
toparboilaad  grillinslSoes,  No.  131. 


678 


INDEX. 


Skftto,  to  fry.  No.  181. 
SUmtB  and  soaoxonens,  236. 
Skirts,  beef,  314. 
ttaipes,  to  dress.  No.  81. 
8now,  potato,  84& 

snow-balls  of  rioe,  615. 

snow-creem,  615. 
Holes,  to  dress  in  different  ways,  194. 

to  fry,  202. 

to  dress,  au  graUn,  400. 

miets  of,  d  la  maUre  d'Hdtdy  409. 

to  stew,  206. 
Sorrel,  to  stew,  for  /Hcandeaux,  239. 

saaoe  of,  268. 
Sonchy,  water,  a  Dutch  way  of  cooking 

flsh,  212. 
Son\ffU$,  616. 

of  lioe,  617. 

of  potato-flour,  617. 

omektUt  617. 

of  apples,  618. 
SouPB. — Chap.  V.,  144. 

obs.  on.,  144  to  149. 

stew  or  mouthful,  164,  note,  176. 

French  soups,  383  to  387. 

Scotch,  163,  164,  168,  172,  174, 
176, 427, 428, 429, 430, 431, 436, 
440. 

primary,  or  plain  stock  broth,  149. 

second  stock,  151. 

ridier  high-flavoured  stock,  151. 

very  strong  stock,  or  Qnmd  Con- 

sonun^t  161. 
dear  gravy-soup,  the  basis  of  many 

soups,  152. 
twrmtoeRi,  carrot,  turnip,  celery, 

asparagus,  green  pease,  Orecyy 

and  soupe  d  la  Faubonne,  obs. 

152,163. 
patage  au  riz,  or  rice-soup,  383. 
another  way,  384. 
pctage  de  Iwrauti  d  la  St.  Oeorge, 

Carem^'s  hare-soup,  384. 
spinage,  163. 
French  brown  soups,  or  La  Brun- 

oisey  and  JtUiennet  153. 
Potage  d  la  BeinCt  or,  Victoria 

soup,    the    fiishionable    white 

soup,  166. 
vegetable-marrow,   Jenualon-ar- 

tidioke,   and    other  vegetable 

soups,  157. 
macaroni,  and  other  paste  soups, 

158. 
vermicelli,  158. 
cagliari,  158. 
semolina,  16& 
sago  and  tapioca,  159. 
made  with  imitation   of  Italian 

pastes  and  Nouille  paste,  159. 
8{^big-fhdt,  of  the  dieese-gourd, 

same  Spanish  fiuhion,  soup  of 

gourds,  second-course  didies  of 


young  gourds,  young  gourds  in 

white  sauce,  183, 184. 
Soups,  the  old  Scotch  brown -soup,  153. 
pbtin  white-soup,  154. 
old  Sootch  ^rtilte-soup,  or  toujfe  d 

la  Reine,  or  Lorraine,  154,  155. 
plain  onion-soup,  155. 
supo'Iative  onion -soup,  156w 
onion-soup  maigre,  157. 
potage  d  la  Clermont,  157. 
potato-soup,  163. 
green  asparagus-soup,  160. 
v^etable  soups,  or  potages  prin- 

taniersy  157, 158. 
green  pease-soup  maigre,  160. 
excellent  soup  maigre,  160. 
the  best  pease-soup,  161. 
currie  pease-soup,  and  RedgiD's 

pease-soup  haut  gout.  No.  78. 
potage  au  vermicdli,  384. 
pot4^  d  Vltalienne,  385. 
poto^e  d  la  Baveau,  a  clear  brown- 
soup,  385. 
potage  Anglais  d  la  Rothschild, 

385. 
potage  au  choux,  or  cabbage-soup, 

385. 
German  cabbage-soup,  386. 
potage  printanier,  French    way, 

386. 
potage  d  la  Camerani,  386. 
MulUigatawny-soup,  164. 

obs^vations  on,  and  N.B.  165. 
Mullagatawny,  as  made  in  India, 

or  currie-soup,  442. 
stew-soups,  obs.  on,  164. 
mock-turtle,  165. 
cheaper  mock-turtle,  167. 
baked  mock-turtle-soup,  167. 
egg-balls  for  mock-turtle,  167. 
Scotch  hare,  rabbit,  or  game-soup, 

168. 
modem  or  Englisb  bare-soup,  168. 
pigeon  or  game-soup,  169. 
superlative  game-soup,  170. 
Hessian   or  ox-head  soup,   and 

ragout,  170. 
calTs  heed  soup,  171. 
knuckle  of  veaJ-soup,  172. 
giblet-soup,  173. 

ox-tail  and  kidney-soup,  173,  174. 
pig's  pettitoes',  183. 
poacher's  soup,  d  la  Meg  Merri- 

{009,174. 
cheap  rice-and-meat,  176. 
Scotch  hotch-potch,  428. 
winter  hotch-potch,  429. 
another  way,  429. 
Sootch  skhik,  430. 
Irish,  or  Balnamoon  skink,  428. 
sheep's  head  broth,  436. 
plum-porridge,  440. 
pan-kail,  440. 


INDEX. 


679 


Soaps,  oock-a-Ieekie,  or  leek-soup,  427. 

of  gourds,  183, 184. 

friur's  chicken,  431. 

civet  of  hare,  386. 

civet  of  venison,  344. 

civet  of  roebuck,  387. 

the  garbure,  444. 

peppo'-pot,  172. 

mUk-soup,  182. 

spring  fruit-soups,  183. 

FisH-soups,  basis  of,  178. 

lobster-soup,  179. 

oyster,  three  kinds,  180, 181. 

oray-fish-soup,  181. 

forcemeat  for  fish  soups,  or  for 
stews  of  fish,  182. 

ed-soup,  182. 

Scotch  fish-soups,  430. ' 

fish  turtle-soup,  211. 

cheap  soups,  (j00-60a 

crusts  for  soups,  163. 
Spices,  cook's,  or  kitchen,  286. 
Spiced  wines,  note,  656. 
Spinage,  to  dress,  233. 

with  sorrel,  Na  212. 

soup  of,  No.  64. 

for  greening  soups,  No.  75. 
Sprats,  to  broil,  208. 

to  fry,  208. 
Sprouts,  Brussels,  to  dress,  233. 
Spruce-beers,  567,  568. 
Steaks,  beef,  131, 132, 133. 

with  potato,  133. 

with  cucumber,  311. 

entre  cdte  de  haufy  387. 

mutton,  133,  336,  337. 

pork,  134. 

to  fry,  140. 

salmon,  189. 

French  mode,  191. 

beef,  to  fry,  .138. 

puddhig  of,  492. 

Iamb,  341. 
Steaming,  obe.  on,  87,  88. 
Stewing,  obs.  on,  304. 
Soup   and    Stkw,    or    Mouthful 
Soups,  164-178. 

note  on,  175, 176. 

Irish,  446. 
Stock,  plain,  149. 

stronger,  the  French  consomm^, 
151. 

Richer,  high-flavoured,  151. 

very  strong,  ^and  coniommiiy  161. 
Stufllings  for  poultry,  94;    for  veal, 
Nos.  23,  24,  434,  435,  448. 

for  fowls,  notes,  pp.  116, 117, 118 ; 
Nos.  522,  518;  and  pp.  411,  412. 

and  forcemeats,  284. 

for  pigeons,  Noe.  33,  626. 

for  goose,  119, 

for  hare.  No.  36,  and  p.  118. 

for  pig,  109. 


Stuffings,  for  pig's  head,  398. 

for  pike,  2C^. 

for  carp,  Na  149. 

for  haddocks,  201. 

for  crappit  heads,  436. 

for  turkey  boiled,  94. 

for  roast  turkey,  116, 117, 118. 

and  note,  116, 117. 
Strawberries,  to  preserve,  629. 

Jam  of,  522. 

cream  of,  503. 

iced  cream  of,  604. 
Sturgeon,  to  dress,  and  sauce  for,  199. 
Suet,  to  clarify,  for  frying,  137. 

rich  paste  of,  for  meat  pies,  462-3. 

dumplings  of,  494. 
Sugar,  to  boil  for  preserves  and  con- 
fections, 520. 

devices  and  ornaments  of,  532. 

water  of,  or  eau  ntcr^y  569. 

milk  of,  or  lait  tucri,  559. 

browning  of,   or  sugar-catsup  for 
browning  made-dishes,  293. 

uses  (rf,  in  curing  meat,  605,  606, 
607. 

in  kippering  salmon,  190. 
Sughlio,  or  gmvy  of  beef  extracted  in 

wine,  note,  448. 
Suppers,  company,  80,  81. 

dishes  for,  80,  81. 
Sweetmeats,  directions  about,  618, 519. 
Sweet  patties.  No.  828. 
^weet  and  ornamental  dishes,  obs.  on, 
^         498. 
Sweetbreads  of  veal,  to  dress,  328. 

to  fry,  141. 

to  ragout,  328. 

with  mushrooms,  392. 

of  lamb,  341. 

cold,  to  dress,  393. 
SwrPT,  Dean,  quoted,  note,  238. 
Syllabub,  whipt,  511. 

Windsor,  512. 

Staffordshfre,  612. 

Somersetshire,  512. 

Tabella  Cibaria  quoted,  note,  221. 
Tables,   observations   on   laying   out 

supper-tables,  80,  81. 
Table  of  time  for  cookery,  570. 
Tablets,  ginger,  cinnamon,  lemon,  &;c 

530. 
Tapioca-puddfaig,  479. 
Tartar-sauce,  270,  879. 

mustard,  290. 
Tarts  of  fruits,  and  of  preserved  fruits, 
464. 

obs.  on  ornamenting,  Na  808. 
TarUets,466. 

Tea,  beef,  veal,  and  chickm,  686. 
Temperaitum  of  cream  to  chum,  614. 

of  milk  to  make  cheese,  622. 

of  water  for  baths,  694. 


680 


Ilrt>EX. 


Tench,  to  fry.  No.  136.  ; 

ThiokeDing,  to  make,  for  made-dishes, 
SOO. 

to  thicken  batter,  268. 

to  thicken  gravies,  obs.  260. 
Tincture  of  lemon-peel,  286. 

of  cloves,  nutmeg,  allspioe,  dnna- 
mon,  2B6. 

aromatic,  561. 
Toasts,  savoury,  several  Idnds,  962. 

to  butter,  for  roast  game,  121. 
Toast  and  water,  503b 
Tomates,  or  love-anDles,  to  dress,  236. 
Tomata-aauce,  368. 
Tongues,  to  salt,  608. 

to  stew,  311. 

to  glaxe.  262,  263. 

scarlet,  312,  No.  397. 

a  la  braise,  388. 

en  mtroton,  887. 

sheeps*,  330. 

rooto  of.  No.  1187. 
Trifle,  an  elegant,  500. 

gooseberry,  or  apple,  500. 
Tripe,  and  cow-heel,  to  boil,  08. 

to  boil,  French  mode,  00. 

to  fry,  and  cow-heel,  143. 

Scottish  way,  Na  74a 

Olasgow  and  Birmingham,  434. 

Irish,  447. 

French  mode,  380. 

pie  of,  obs.  No.  780. 
Trotters,  sbeM's  or  lamb's,  to  stew, 
330. 

French  way,  306. 
Trout,  to  bake  salmon  or,  100. 

another  way,  lOL 

to  stew,  206. 

d  la  Oenevoite,  407. 

to  fry,  202. 

sauce  d  VAurcre,  for,  278. 
Truffles,  to  stew,  in  champagne,  or 

serve  in  croutons,  2^ 
Trussbr,  maxims  of,  604. 
Turbot,  to  choose  and  boil,  102. 

note  on,  102. 

sauces  for,  198,  278. 

garnishing  for,  103. 

to  keep  and  dress  cold  turbot,  obs. 
No.  120,  p.  103. 

an  exeeUent  small  dish  of  briU  or, 
104. 

to  stew  fillets  of,  206. 

d  la   crhne  d'AnduHs^  Soyer's 
way,  407. 

oold,  4  la  crime,  [graiinit)  407. 
fillets  of,  French   mode,  or  au 
ffratin,400. 

roe  of,  Frendi  dish,  411. 

sauces  for,  Nos.  308«  812, 813, 
Turkey,  to  roast,  fowls,  and  game,  116. 

note  on  stuffing  for,  116-118. 

stuffing  fior«  Frendii  fhshioa,  118. 


Turkey,  to  boD,  and  t6  stuff  *  boBed 
one,  04. 

to  stuff  and  roast,  116-120. 

with  sausages,  note,  116. 

with  chestnuts,  116. 

with  oysters,  116. 

devil  of,  Nos.  550,  note,  p.  asi. 

patties  of,  471. 

pulled,  351. 

to  braise.  No.  620. 

to  dress  the  gixzard  of,  Nol  650. 

IHndon  en  davbe,  40O. 

sauces   for,  Nos.  267,    268 ;    for 
boiled.  No.  311. — See  also,  pp. 
270,  271,  273. 
Turnips,  to  dr^,  234 

to  mash,  or  pur ie  of,  284. 

French  way  for  the  second  course, 
234. 

navett  viene,  416. 
Turtle,  mock,  332. 
Turtle-soup,  mock,  165, 166,  167. 
Turtle,  fish,  211. 

sauce,  275. 

balls  for  turtle-soup,  167. 

Udk,  AL,  quoted,  notes,  187, 335, 206. 

bis  ham,  606. 
Udder  beef,  315. 
Unfermented  bread,  (Dr.  Pereira's.) 

546.  ' 
Usquebaugh,  or  Iridi  cordial,  552. 

Yanilla  cream,  50L 

obs.  on,  473. 
YauxhaU  carver  of  hams,  note,  138. 
Veal,  to  choose,  42. 

French  dishes  of,  389  to  394. 

toboU,02. 

to  roast,  loin  and  breast,  112,  lia. 

stufiBng  for,  note,  113. 

French  manner  of  dividing  the 
fillet,  389. 

to  stuff  and  stew  a  fillst  of,  321. 

to  stew  a  breast,  322. 

to  ragout  a  breast  or  ten<kons,  822. 

to  ragout  a  knuckle,  325. 

to  braise  a  neck  or  other  pieee,  325. 

bachelor's  stew  of,  310. 

a  fricandeau  of,  324. 

a  loin  of,  d  la  daube,  826. 

a  haricot  of,  326. 

a  Granada  of,  325. 

outiets,  Bnglish  and  French  ways, 
130. 

Maintenon  outlets,  326. 

cutlets  4  to  Venetiame,  384. 

COtdetUg  d  la  CMt^ara,  384. 

aujambon,  394 

oUves  Of,  32a 

Scotch  collops,  32a 

various  modesof  dressing,  No.  446. 

to  Jug,  320. 


INDEX. 


681 


VtfU,  babble  and  squeaJc  of,  321. 
Orenadim  de  veauy  390. 
noix  de  veau  m  bedeau,  390. 
tendront  de  veau,  390. 
calTs  head  to  currie,  391. 
bopdins  of  cold,  392. 
Mon^iitfttw  of ,  393. 
btanquettes  with  cucumber,  393. 
d  la  Paytanne,  393. 
loin,  d  la  Bechamel^  394. 
to  pot,  Noe.  431,  466. 
to  drew  veal  sweetbreads,  328. 
sweetbreads,  to  ragout,  328. 
sweetbreads,  with  mushrooms,  392. 
cold  sweetbreads,  to  dress,  393. 
veal  d  la  mode,  307. 
cake  of,  329. 

calves'  tails,  to  dress,  328. 
calTs  liver,  with  herbs,  393. 
calTs  liver,  328. 
liver,  with  bacon,  to  fiy,  142. 
kidney,  329. 
pluck,  327. 
heart,  to  dress,  328. 
ears,  French  mode,  392. 
calves'  brains  d  la  Ravigote^  391. 
calves'  brains,  d  la  maUre  d'hdtd, 

392. 
calves'  feet,  to  dress,  333. 
Jelly  of  calves'  feet,  606. 
head,  plain,  329. 
head  and  ragout,  Scotch,  330. 
head,  to  fricassee,  331. 
to  hash,  331. 
to  turtle,  332. 
mock  turtle-soup  of,  165, 166, 167. 
to  collar  a  head.  No.  416. 
made  dishes  of  cold,  333,  334 
to  ragout  cold,  333. 
to  hash  cold,  33a 
to  mince  cold,  333. 
Dunelm  of  cold,  334. 
pies  of,  465,  466. 
a  plain  pie,  465. 
a  richer  pie,  466. 
a  very  rich  pie,  466. 
(dive-pie  of,  466. 
rich  olive-pie,  466. 
calf  s  head  pie,  to  eat  c(dd,  466. 
calTs  foot  pie,  467. 
bride's  pie  of  feet,  467. 
patties  of  veal  and  ham,  471. 
soup  of  knuckle,  172. 
blond  de  veau,  377. 
fricandelle,  442. 
minced  oollops  of,  432. 
pilau  of,  441. 

sausages  of,  with  pork,  &c.  369. 
See  alto  Index,  Article  Calvks. 
Vkobtablks  and    Roots.  —  Chap. 

VII.,  227,  228,  229. 
brocoli  and  cauliflower,  to  boil  and 

dress,  229. 


Vegetables  and  Boots,  cauliflower  witb 

Parmeean,  230. 
asparagus  and  sea-kale,  230. 
note,  230. 
French  modes  of  dressing  aspani* 

gus  and  sea-kale,  416,  416. 
artiohokes,  to  boil,  231. 
artichokes  d  Vltaiienne,  416. 
artichoke-bottoms,  en  canoj^^ilS, 
Jerusalem  artichokes,  23L 
green  peas,  to  boil,  231. 
Frenoh  mode,  416. 
Windsor  and  other  beans,  232. 
with  ham,  96. 

French  way,  or  4  la  Poulette, 
416L 
French  beans,  232. 
cabbage,  greens,  savoys,  Brussels 

cabbage,  233. 
spinage,  233. 
turnips,  234. 
French  way,  234. 
to  mash,  234 
turnips,  navett  vierge,  416. 
Macedoine  of  roots,  416. 
carrots,  to  boil,  236. 

Flemish  way,  ^6. 
parsnips,  No.  201,  p.  236. 
gourds,  fried,  236. 
another  way,  236. 
skirrets  and  sconzoneras,  236. 
tomatas,  236. 
beet-roots,  236. 
to  stew  and  roast  onions,  237. 
vegetable  currie,  237. 

marrow,  or  gourds,  183, 184, 

236,  236,  684 
to  stew  cucumbers  and  celery,  238. 
to  stew  red  cabbage,  239. 
to  stew  sorrel  for  fricandeaux, 239. 
mushrooms,  observations  and  note, 

240,  241. 
to   stew   or  ragout    nuishroo^us, 

white  or  brown,  24L 
to  grill,  242. 

For  vegetables  at  made-dithet, 
tee  the  respective  Artictet  in 
Index. 
potatoes,  242,  244-246. 
calecannon,  246. 

salads,  248-26a— <See  head  Saladt. 
grouse  tcUade,  124 
game  salad,  401. 
to  salt,  264 

to  store  for  winter,  254 
to  preserve  in  various  ways,  253. 
to  pickle,  294 

See  Pickles,  Index. 
herbs  and  seeds  to  dry  for  kitchen 

use,  264 
barberries,  to  preserve,  254,  299. 
Venue's  jelly,  608. 
VelouU,  or  white  cpllis,  26& 


682 


INDEX.. 


VateUmnef  eotelettei  i  la,  804. 

rabbits  a  fa,  389. 
VcnJaoa,  to  keep  and  roast  a  haonch 
or  shou]<ter  of  >  in  th«  English 
mode,  110. 

notes  on,  llOi 

toboU,»8. 

red  and  roe  deer,  to  roast,  Scot- 
tish way,  112. 

ooUops  of,  Scottish  way,  142. 
another  way,  344. 

to  staw  a  shoulder,  343l 

to  bake,  944. 

civet(tf,  344. 

minoed  eollops  of,  Scottish,  433. 

dvet  of  roebuck,  387. 

to  stew  dressed,  844. 

to  hasli  eoUL,  346. 

soups  of,  poadieriB,  or  ^  ta  Mqf 
Merrilia,  174,  and  No.  90. 

stew   soup    of  dressed,  obeerra- 
tions.  No.  60& 

pasty  of,  461. 

crust  for  pasty  of,  454. 

sharp  and  sweet  sanoes  for,  and 
gravy,  274,  276,  111. 

melon  piclde  for.  No.  297. 
Verjuice,  287. 
Verder  or  milk  punch,  666. 
Vermoate,  or  wormwoo<1  wine,  557. 
Vinegars,  household,  287. 

sugar,  cider,  gooseberry,  287. 

of  wine-lees,  287. 

raisin,  288. 

alegar,  28& 

flavoured  and  herb  vinegars,  288. 
Vfaiegar,  Chili  or  pepper,  288. 

eschalot,  288. 

gariic,288. 

odery  or  cress,  288k 

cucumber,  288. 

tarragon,  289. 

baBU,289. 

horseradish,  289. 

camp,  289. 

currie,  289. 

raspberry,  289. 

rose,  for  the  toilet  and  salads,  097. 

lavender,  507. 

thieves*,  696. 
Vinegaret  for  cold  meat,  270. 
Vol-au-vent,  369. 

observations  on,  869. 

vol-au-vents  of  lobster,  405. 

Wafers,  several  kinds,  543,  544. 
Wafaiuts,  to  pickle  gFeen,  296. 
WAI.TOR,  IsAAK,  note,  909; 
Wassail  bowl,  513. 
Waters  for  cooling  draughts,  592» 

Barbadoes  wf  t  t,  550. 
Water,  filter  for,  6ft>. 
Welsh  pudding,  487. 


Welsh,  modem,  or  Quaker's  padding, 

480. 

rabbit,  note,  366. 

gallimaufry,  365. 

leek  porridge,  438. 
Westphalia  hams,  607. 
Whey,  wine,  alum,  Ac.,  No.  1074. 
WUfe  bait,  to  dress  as  at  Graenvich, 
and  Lovegrove's,  Bkudcwall ,  213. 

sauces,  Noa  279.  294.  303»  586-7. 

icfaig  for  cakes,  634. 
Whitings,  au  grcAin,  No.  688. 

boudins  of,  observations.  No.  696.* 

to  fry,  No.  136,  p.  202. 

note  on,  202. 

another  way  to  fry.  No.  146. 

to  stew.  No.  141,  p.  209. 

to  currie,  211. 
Whips  of  cream,  501,  502,   and   art. 

Trifle,  609. 
Whipt  syllabub,  511. 

coffee-cream,  501,  602. 
Whidsor  syUabub,  512. 

beans,  232. 

a  la  Pouktte,  416. 
Wines,  home-mads,  or  sweet,  obeerva- 

tipns  on,  561. 
Wine,  biest  white  and  red  gooaeberr\'. 
563,664. 

British  Rhenish.  564. 

red  currant,  664. 

a  cheap,  of  mixed  fruit,  564. 

elder-flower,  665. 

elder,  565. 

orange,  565. 

orange  and  lemon,  566L 

parsnip,  566b 

ginger,  566. 

anc^her  way,  567. 

birch,  567. 

jeUy  of.  No.  910. 

sauce  for  puddings,  277,  477. 

whey  of,  557. 

wormwood,  or  bitter,  557. 

hot  spiced  wines,  note,  556. 

herb  wines,  290. 

eschalot,  290. 

mulled,  666. 

Bishop,  666. 

Pope,  note,  556. 
Winter  hotch-potch,  429. 

salad,  252. 
Woodcocks,  snipes,  plovers,  raOs,  and 
ortolans,  to  roast,  123. ' 

to  devil,  note,  dec  361. 

sMices  for,  Noe.  289,  290. 
Yearning,  or  rennet,  620,  fiSl. 
Yeast,  to  make,  646,  547. 

Russian  and  camp,  547,  548. 
Yorkshire  puddings  488. 

pie,  or  Chrislmas,  No.  799. 
YoML'a,  Duke  ot,  saooe,  note,  283. 
Zests,  notes,  72»  861,  405» 


INDEX. 


683 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 


Prepcaraticns  for  Hie  Dressmg-room. 


Pot  pourri,  695. 

Eau  de  Cologne,  two  ways,  505,  696. 

A  cheap  pemime,  596. 

Thieves'  vin^far,  &dQ. 

Rose-vinegar  for  salads,   or  for  the 

toUet,  597. 
CrSme  de  rose,  597. 


Lavender-vinegar — Frrach,  597. 
Honey- water  for  the  hair,  597. 
Cold  cream  for  the  skin,  697. 
Lip-salve,  597. 

Paste  for  chapped  hands,  698. 
M^iun  tonperature  of  baths,  594. 


A  Selection  of  Useful  Miscellaneous  Receipts  for  Cleaning 
and  Preserving  Furniture^  Clothes,  ^. 


To  scoor  carpets,  629. 

To  wash  chintz  fumitore,  shawls,  &&, 

630. 
To  clean  printed  calico  fumitore,  630. 
To  scour  blankets,  690. 
To  wash  silk  stockings,  631. 
To  take  spots  of  paint  from  cloth  and 

silks,  631. 
To  take  greasy  stains  out  of  silk,  631. 
To  take  out  iron  mould,  631. 
To  take  out  stauis  of  wine,  fruit,  &c., 

631. 
To  rttnove  mildew,  631. 
Clothes-closets,  631. 
Bonnet-boxes,  632. 
Fur, — to  preserve,  632. 
Ink-spots,  to  take  out,  632. 
To  clean  marble  slabs  and  chinmey- 

pieces,  632. 
To  clean  papered  rooms,  632. 
To  clean  paint,  632. 
To  take  grease  irom  papered  walls  or 

books,  632. 
To  clean  floor-cloths,  632. 
Fomentations,  ^4. 
Fumigation  of  rooms,  593. 
Filter  for  water,  substitute  for,  595. 
Bottle- wax,  570. 
To  polish  furniture,  633. 


To  polish  mahogany,  &c  in  the  Italian 

manner,  6^. 
To  preserve  polished  steel,  633. 
To  clean  steel  grates,  633. 
To  clean  brass  grates,  fire-irons,  &c., 

634. 
To  dean  knives  and  forks,  634. 
To  clean  plate  and  plated  articles,  634. 
To  dean  pewter  veasds  and  tin  covers, 

635. 
Directions  for  cleaningBritannia-metal 

goods,  635. 
To  preserve  gilding,  635. 
To  dean    looking-glasses  and   plate 

glass,  635. 
To  waui  wine-decanters,  635. 
To  dean  japanned  goods,  636. 
To  get  oil  out  of  wood  and  stone,  636. 
To  take  rust  out  of  fire-irons,  636. 
To  dean  china  and  glass,  636. 
To  take  stains  out  of  monming  dresses, 

636. 
To  dean  black  silk  dresses,  636. 
An  excellent  shoe-blacking,  636. 
Liquid  Japan  blacking,  636. 
Scalds  and  bums,  637.* 
To  extinguish  fiie  in  female  dresses, 

637. 


*  Scalds  and  burns— for  Gowland's  read  fikwIaniV. 


CRITICAL    NOTICES 

OP 

FORMER  EDITIONS  OF  THIS  WORK. 


*'  liae  DoDS  1im  produoed  bendf  of  Iftle  from  obKorlty  m  Aofhonv  of  a 
wortc  oo  Cookery,  of  which,  in  justioe  to  a  lady  who  makes  ao  disfctngniah»d  a 
flgim  as  this  exceUent  dame,  we  Insert  the  ttHepase. — Thou^  it  is  irnther  im- 
conneeted  with  our  immediate  sabject,  we  cannot  lielp  adding,  that  Mrs.  Dods 
lias  pvBsenred  the  recipes  ol  certain  exodlent  old  dishes,  which  we  would  he 
loath  should  fall  into  obllrion  in  oar  day."— fi^^r  WaUer  ScotL  NoU  io  & 
JUman'4  Wett^  WaverUn  Novelt. 

**  The  individual  who  has  ingeniously  personated  M^  I>ods  is  evidently  no 
odinaiy  writer ;  and  the  book  is  really  most  excellent  miscellaneous  reading. — 
Here  we  have  twenty  or  thirty  grave,  sober,  instructive,  bosineas-like  pages, 
right  on  end,  without  one  particle  of  wit  whatever ;  then  come  as  numy  nKxe 
si^tekled  with  faoetic ;  and  then  half-a-dosen  of  broad  mirth  and  marriment 
^is  alternation  of  grave  waA  gay  is  exceedingly  agreeable." — Biadaeood^i 
Magaziiu. 

*'  We  have  no  hesitation  in  saying,  that  if  the  humorous  Introduction  is  not 
written  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  the  author  of  it  possesses  a  singular  talent  of 
mimicking  his  best  comic  manner,  and  has  presented  us  with  an  imitation  of 
the  great  novelist,  as  remarkaUe  for  its  fidelity,  Csdlity,  and  cleverness,  as  any 
thing  in  the  '  Rejected  Addresses.'— The  remarks  on  keeping  Chune,  we  should 
not  omit  to  say,  are  very  bold  and  Judicious." — MonOUy  Review, 

**  We  are  not  among  the  believers  in  tiie  old  proverb,  that  there  can  be  too 
much  of  a  good  thing ;  for  to  the  eloquent  exlfortations  of  Mrs.  Dods,  on  the 
meet  precious  of  all  themes,  we  could  be  content  to  listen  for  ever,  provided  she 
would  undertake  to  cook  our  dinner  aftor  the  lecture,  and  illustrate  ner  doctrine 
by  her  practice. — There  cannot  be  too  many  editions  of  M^s  ivecepts,  espe- 
cially if  every  succeeding  one,  as  is  the  case  in  the  present,  should  come  reoom- 
mended  by  such  captivating  additions ;  and  this,  we  cannot  help  thinking,  wfli 
inevitaUy  be  the  case."—  New  MowOdy  Magazine, 

"  In  addition  to  every  thing  which  the  cook  or  housekeeper  can  desire  in  such 
a  manual,  Mrs.  Margaret  Dods'  treatise  is  sprinkled  with  the  salt  of  rare  Scot- 
tish wit,  and  rivals  or.  Kitchiner's  learned  work,  both  in  variety  and  pleasant 
humour.  We  are  assured  also,  by  oerti^n  sage  and  experienced  persons,  well 
skilled  in  the-subject,  that  we  may  safely  recommend  it  to  pubUc  patronage,  as  a 
useful  and  well-qualifled  guide  in  all  tiie  mysteries  of  ttie  culinary  art" — 
Athenaum. 

"  As  a  curiosity  the  work  is  unrivalled — its  Author  is  the  personage  of  a  novel, 
and  the  scene  of  its  experiments  the  invention  of  a  poet  But  this  la  only  the 
garnishing.  Some  folks  may  object  to  all  tliis,  and  call  it  frippery,  and  not 
credit  that  it  can  surround  any  woric  of  solid  information.  Let  them,  however, 
take  stew-pan  in  hand  and  try  ;  they  will  find  the  way  to  mudi  substantial 
delight  lying  through  the  pages  of  Meg  Dods*  institute  of  the  culinary  art" — 
AUoi, 

**  A  good  manual  hardly  requfares  the  accompaniment  of  vrit  and  amusing 
anecdote  to  obtain  the  attention  of  all  sensible  men ;  yet  we  have  no  doubt  that 
the  rapidity  with  which  M^  Dods  has  run  to  a  second  edition  is  in  no  small 
degree  owing  to  the  literary  talent  displayed  in  its  composition." — Morning 
Chronide. 

**  This  book  Is  evidently  got  up  by  some  penon  who  knows  la  Cuisine  well, 
and  something  else  besides. — There  are  both  wit  and  learning  in  it ;  and  these 
not  stuck  on  like  the  superfluous  bay-leaves  which  grace  a  pyramid  of  jelly,  but 
entering,  like  well-prepared  condiments,  into  its  very  substance.  It  is  a  hand- 
some, cheap,  and  most  useful  publication,  and  well  deserves  to  be  In  the  hands 
of  e veiy  housewife  in  the  kmgdom.  "—Seotfman, 


I 


