COOK  DODK 


COMPILED  BY 

w.  s.  c.  s. 

GARLAND,  NORTH  CAROLINA 
1950 


DUKE 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 

EAST  CAMPUS  LWftA'Wf 


Gift  of 

Mcmij  Damon 


.■ 


Carter  Furniture  Co. 

Furniture 

Milton  Carter  -  Coleman  Carter 

Funeral  Directors  And  Embalmers 

Day  Phone  392 

Night  Phone  371 


Garland 


North  Carolina 


Garland 


BUCK'S  CLEANERS 

Pressing 

Alterations  And  Repairs 

North  Carolina 


DAUGHTRY'S  MARKET 

Staple  And  Fancy  Groceries 

Fruits  And  Vegetables 

Poultry  And  Eggs 

Vance  Street 


Clinton 


Dial  2414 


North  Carolina 


MEATS 

HAMBURGER 
A  lot  of  people  ask  me  what  food  I  like  most..  It  would  be  a 
whole  lot  easier  to  answer  what  foods  I  do  not  like,  and  they 
are  few.    I  have  eaten  Snails  and  Cels  but  I  wouldn't  go  out  of 
my  way  to  get  them.    Right  off  hand  I  know  of  no  dish  that  I 
enjoy  more  than  the  plebian  hamburger.    I  have  my  own  pet 
way  of  doing  this  dish  and  it's  yours  right  now  for  the  asking. 
Have  the  butcher  cut  a  1  pound  top  round  steak  and  trim  it  and 
run  it  through  the  food  chopper.    The  chopped  meat  is  put  in  a 
bowl  and  seasoned  well  with  salt  and  pepper.    Now  I  add  2 
tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  onion,  2  slices  of  whole  wheat 
bread  which  has  been  thoroughly  soaked  in  milk  and  1  egg, 
beaten.    With  my  two  hands  I  mix  and  then  mix  some  more. 
Form  the  meat  in  cakes  about  1-1/2  inches  thick  about  3 
inches  in  diameter.    Dust  the  hamburger  cakes  with  flour  and 
saute  them  on  each  side  in  a  pan  which  contains  about  a  table- 
spoon of  heated  butter.    Add  more  butter  during  the  cooking. 
When  the  cakes  are  nicely  browned  on  both  sides  remove  them 
to  a  hot  platter.    To  the  small  amount  of  fat  left  in  the  pan 
add  another  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire 
Sauce  and  2  tablespoons  of  ketchup.     Heat  and  stir  and  pour 
over  the  hamburger.    Right  now  I  am  going  over  to  the  butch- 
er and  order  a  pound  of  meat.     While  writing  this  I  have 
created  a  terrific  appetite. 

Mrs.  Rosalind  R. 

Cromartic. 

BARBECUED  SPARERIBS 
2    pounds  spareribs  l/2  cup  water 

1     onion  2    teaspoons  Worcestershire 

l/4  cup  catsup  Sauce 

1/8  teaspoon  chili  powder 
Cut  ribs  in  pieces  for  serving.    Place  in  baking  dish,  slice 
onions  over  the  top  and  add  other  ingredients.    Cover  and  cook 
in  moderate  oven,  350  degrees  F.,  about  2  hours. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

BAKED  HAM 
Cover  medium  sized  ham  with  cold  water.    To  each  quart 
of  water  add  1/2  cup  vinegar,  1/4  cup  molasses,  1  slice  of 
onion,  and  2  dozen  cloves.    Bring  water  to  a  boil,  then  lower 
heat  and  simmer  until  tender,  allowing  l/2  hour  to  each  pound. 
Let  stand  in  liquid  overnight  or  several  hours.    Remove  skin. 
Rub  with  mustard  and  brown  sugar.    Bake  in  slow  oven,  350 
degrees  F.,  until  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Gaines. 


BAKED  FISH 

4  or  5  pounds  fish  2    teaspoons  crushed  sage 
Salt  or  parsley 

1     cup  diced  celery  3/4  teaspoon  salt 

3    tablespoons  finely  3/4  teaspoon  black  pepper 

chopped  onion  2    hard  cooked  eggs, 

6    tablespoons  butter  optional 

1     quart  day  old  bread  cubes 

Boil  celery  in  1  cup  water  for  15  or  20  minutes  until  ten- 
der drain  and  reserve  4  tablespoons  liquid.    Cook  onion  in 
butter  slowly  until  transparent.    Mix  bread  cubes,  sage,  salt 
and  pepper  together.    Add  celery,  celery  liquid,  onions  and 
butter  and  mix  thoroughly  with  fork.    Cover  and  let  stand  for 

5  to  10  minutes.    Rub  fish  inside  and  out  with  salt,  stuff  with 
dressing.    Close  opening  with  toothpicks  and  lace  with  string 
or  sew  up  with  needle  and  thread.     Place  fish  on  a  buttered 
heavy  brown  paper  in  a  baking  pan.    Brush  fish  with  melted 
butter.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes,  until  the 
skin  is  golden  brown.    Remove  carefully  to  a  hot  platter  and 
garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon  slices.    Serve  with  hot  lemon 
butter  sauce.    By  this  method  you  have  a  fish  of  excellent 
flavor  and  appearance.    The  flavor  of  the  fish  is  greatly  im- 
proved by  cooking  it  with  butter  and  serving  it  with  lemon. 

Mrs.  Rosalind  R. 
Cromartic. 

SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 
1-1/2  pounds  ground  beef  1    large  diced  onion 

3    diced  green  peppers  2    cans  tomato  paste  or 

1  diced  garlic  bud  puree 

2  large  diced  raw  carrots  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 
Sear  ground  beef  in  small  amount  of  fat.    Add  remaining 

ingredients  and  cook  very  slowly  for  about  3  hours  in  covered 
saucepan.    If  sauce  cooks  down  too  thick,  add  small  amount 
of  water.    Serve  over  spaghetti  with  Parmesan  Cheese. 

Mrs.  Fred  McGrath. 

SALMON  RING 
(Serve  hot  or  cold) 
1     pound  can  salmon,  drain  1     tablespoon  parsley, 

off  oil  chopped 

1  cup  hot  milk  1     teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  3     slightly  beaten  eggs 

Mix  milk  with  soft  crumbs,  parsley  and  salt.    Stir  in  salm- 
on, then  eggs.    Pour  into  greased  mold  (ring  if  you  have  one) 
or  loaf  pan.    Bake  in  moderate  oven,  350  degrees  F.,  for  45 
minutes.    If  you  bake  it  in  a  ring  and  serve  hot,  fill  the  center 
with  lima  beans.    Serve  cold  with  the  ring  filled  with  potato 
salad. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 


PORCUPINE  MEAT  BALLS 
1-1/2  pounds  ground  beef  1    tablespoon  onion, 

l/2  cup  rice  minced 

1    teaspoon  salt  1     can  small  tomato  soup 

l/2  teaspoon  pepper  l/2  cup  water 

Wash  rice  thoroughly.    Combine  meat,  rice,  salt,  pepper 
and  onion.    Shape  into  small  balls.    Heat  tomato  soup  and 
water  in  Presto  Cooker.    Drop  meat  balls  in  on  rack  in  soup 
mixture.    Place  cover  on.    A  low  steam  to  flow  from  vent 
pipe  to  release  all  air  from  cooker.    Place  indicator  weight 
on  vent  pipe  and  cook  10  or  15  minutes  with  pointer  at  cool. 
Let  pointer  return  to  off  position,  then  open  and  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  MEAT  BALLS 
l/2  cup  chopped  onion  Few  grains  pepper 

1/3  cup  fat  or  salad  oil  1     cup  cooked  tomatoes 

3    tablespoons  flour  1    pound  ground  beef 

1  teaspoon  sugar  l/4  pound  ground  pork 

2  teaspoons  salt  1    package  spaghetti 

Brown  onions  in  3  tablespoons  fat  or  salad  oil.    Blend  in 
flour,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  add  tomatoes,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  cover,  simmer  30  minutes.    Mix  beef  and  pork  well, 
shape  into  small  balls,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  remaining  fat. 
Add  spaghetti  to  large  amount  of  boiling  salted  water,  boil  15 
minutes  (stirring  occasionally).    Drain.    Mix  sauce  with 
spaghetti  and  meat  balls,  a  little  water  may  be  added  if  sauce 
is  too  thick.    Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  serve  hot.    Serves  8. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 

CREOLE  CHICKEN 

3  tablespoons  butter  1     cup  chicken  broth 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  l/2  cup  tomato  pulp 

2  tablespoons  shredded  1    teaspoon  grated  horse- 
green  pepper  radish 

3  tablespoons  flour  1    teaspoon  lemon  juice 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  1     cup  chicken,  cooked  and 

cut  fine 
Melt  butter  in  heavy  skillet.    Cook  in  it  the  chopped  onion, 
green  pepper.    When  these  are  softened  and  yellow,  add  flour 
and  salt.    Stir  until  flour  is  absorbed,  then  add  chicken  broth 
and  tomato  pulp.    Stir  until  boils,  then  add  horse-radish, 
lemon  juice  and  chicken.    When  thoroughly  hot,  serve  with 
boiled  rice  and  garnish  with  green  peas. 

Mrs.  Gordon  Love. 


PORK  CHOPS  WITH  RICE 
1     cup  rice  6    slices  tomato 

6    pork  chops  Small  amount  of  water 

6     slices  onion  Enough  fat  to  fry  chops 

Cover  1  cup  rice  with  cold  water,  heat  to  boiling  point  and 
boil  2  minutes.     Drain  in  colander  and  rinse  well  with  cold 
water.     Put  enough  fat  in  separate  pan  to  fry  pork  chops 
lightly,  turn  and  brown  lightly  on  other  side.    Remove  chops. 
Save  out  2  tablespoons  of  rice  and  place  chops  with  1  slice 
each  of  tomato  and  onion  on  each  chop,  on  top  of  rice  and  cov- 
er with  remaining  rice.    Add  enough  hot  water  to  cover  and 
cook  slowly  in  covered  pan  until  tender.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  L..  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

MACARONI  AND  GROUND  BEEF 

3  cups  cooked  macaroni  l/4  teaspoon  paprika 
l/2  cup  diced  celery                            2    cups  ground  round 

4  tablespoons  chopped  steak 

onion  1-1/2  cups  milk  or  meat 
4    tablespoons  chopped  stock 

pimiento  3    tablespoons  melted  fat 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  all  ingredients,  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.    Bake 
25  minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Serve  in  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked. 

Mrs.  L.   A.  Warren. 

MEAT  LOAF 

2  pounds  ground  steak  l/2  cup  shortening 

1     cup  bread  crumbs  2    eggs,  well  beaten 

1     cup  tomatoes  (or  l/2  Celery  leaves  (optional) 

cup  tomato  soup)  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2/3  cup  milk 

Put  2  pieces  of  bacon  in  bottom  of  pan,  place  meat  loaf  on 
top,  cover  with  2  pieces  of  bacon,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
(It  is  better  if  you  can  get  meat  from  other  end  of  a  T-bone.) 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Warren. 

HAM  CROQUETTES 
l/2  teaspoon  salt  1-1/2  cups  rich  milk 

1/4  cup  butter  1     cup  boiled  rice 

l/4  cup  flour  1     cup  chopped  cooked  ham 

l/2  teaspoon  paprika  1     egg,  beaten  light 

Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  seasonings  and  milk.    Add 
egg  and  cook  until  it  thickens  but  without  boiling,  then  add 
rice  and  cooked  ham.    Cool.    Shape  in  balls,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  then  in  a  beaten  egg  diluted  with  3  teaspoons  sweet 
milk.    Fry  in  deep  fat.     Drain. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren. 


SPAGHETTI  WITH  MEAT  BALLS 
1/2  pound  ground  beef  1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

1/4  cup  cooking  oil  2     cups  water 

1     bell  pepper,  chopped  1     small  can  mushrooms 

1     medium  onion,  chopped  12  olives,  sliced 

l/2  cup  celery,  chopped  1     eight  ounce  package 

1     can  tomato  paste  long  spaghetti 

1  can  tomatoes  Grated  cheese 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Form  beef  in  small  balls  and  place  with  oil,  pepper,  onions 
and  celery  in  heavy  saucepan.     Fry  slowly  until  lightly  brown- 
ed.   Add  tomatoes,  tomato  paste,  salt,  pepper  and  water.    Let 
simmer  about  1  hour,  stirring  occasionally.     Cook  spaghetti 
in  3  quarts  boiling  water  to  which  1  teaspoon  salt  has  been 
added.     Drain.    Immediately  before  serving,  add  mushrooms 
and  olives  to  sauce.    Serve  hot  sauce  over  spaghetti. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Gaines. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  MEAT  BALLS 
1     pound  ground  beef  1     egg 

5     slices  stale  loaf  bread,  Milk  (l/2  to  3/4  cup) 

grated  or  chopped  enough  to  soak  bread 

1     clove  of  garlic  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Parsley,  few  sprigs,  chopped 

Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  form  round  balls.    Heat  1   cup 
Wesson  Oil  in  frying  pan.    When  hot  drop  meat  balls  in  and 
brown  well.    Remove  meat  balls.     Pour  all  wesson  Oil  from 
frying  pan  except  2  or  3  tablespoons.    Add  1  six  ounce  can 
tomato  paste,  1  can  water,   1  can  tomatoes.     Mix  well.    Add  2 
tablespoons  chili  powder.    Add  meat  balls  and  let  simmer  for 

3  or  4  hours.    Do  not  under  cook.    Sufficient  simmering  makes 
the  dish.    Boil  1  box  (about  14  to  16  ounces)  long  spaghetti  in 

3  quarts  boiling  water  to  which  1  teaspoon  salt  has  been  added. 
Drain  and  serve  immediately  with  hot  sauce  poured  over 
spaghetti. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Ayers. 

SALMON  LOAF 

1  can  of  salmon  1     teaspoon  lemon  juice 
3/4  cup  of  milk  1     teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  l/4  teaspoon  pepper 
2    tablespoons  pickle  relish  1     slightly  beaten  egg 

Drain  salmon,  reserve  liquid.    Add  enough  milk  to  measure 
1   cup.    Flake  salmon.     Combine  all  ingredients  and  pack  in 
greased  loaf  pan.    Bake  in  oven,  400  degrees,   1  hour. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 


WHOLESOME  LOAF 

(Liver) 

1-1/2  pounds  pork  or  1     teaspoon  powdered  sage 

beef  liver  2    teaspoons  salt 

4    slices  bacon  2    wheat  biscuits 

3/4  cup  chopped  onion  3/4  cup  oatmeal 

1  cup  milk  3     well  beaten  eggs 
1/2  cup  catsup  1/2  teaspoon  pepper 

Scald  liver,  run  through  food  grinder  with  bacon.    Add  the 
crumbled  wheat  biscuits,  eggs,  milk,  corn  meal,  salt,  pepper, 
sage  and  catsup.     Mix  thoroughly.     Place  in  loaf  pan  lined  with 
bacon  strips.     Cover  with  more  bacon.    Bake  1  hour  at  350 
degrees  F.    This  makes  a  delicious  sandwich  filling  when 
sliced  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

STUFFED  FRANKFURTERS 
8    frankfurters  l/2  cup  grated  American 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes  or  sharp  Cheese 
Prepared  mustard 

Let  frankfurters  stand  in  boiling  water  off  the  fire  7  min- 
utes.    Partially  split  frankfurters  lengthwise,  spread  inside 
lightly  with  mustard.     Prepare  mashed  potatoes  in  usual 
fashion  with  milk  and  seasoning.    Add  diced  onion  to  th«=" 
potatoes,  beat  until  fluffy.    Fill  frankfurters  with  potato 
mixture,  pressing  lightly  with  fork.    Sprinkle  with  cheese. 
Place  on  rack  or  in  pan,  brown  lightly  for   10  minutes.    Serve 
with  tossed  salad  and  hot  biscuits. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Broadwell,  Jr. 

MEAT  LOAF 

1  pound  beef  l/2  pound  pork 
1/2  pound  veal 

Grind  together. 

2  eggs  l/2  cup  milk 

1     onion  l/2  cup  Rice  Crispies 

Salt  and  pepper 

Bake  325  degrees  F.  for   1  hour. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Johnson. 

OYSTER  BATTER 

1  cup  flour  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  l/8  teaspoon  pepper 
1     teaspoon  butter  1/4  cup  milk 

Pour  in  1  pint  oysters.    Fry  in  deep  fat  dip  1  tablespoon  to 
a  fritter. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Johnson. 


WIENER  SAUCE 
2    tablespoons  chopped  l/2  teaspoon  chili  powder 

celery  1     teaspoon  salt 

2    tablespoons  chopped  pepper        2    cups  water 
l/2  cup  tomatoes  1     carrot 

1     bud  garlic  1     teaspoon  paprika 

Boil  over  low  heat  until  tender,  about  45  minutes. 
3/4  pound  beef  or  1     teaspoon  salt 

hamburger  1     small  onion 

l/4  teaspoon  pepper  2    thin  slices  of  bread 

Dip  stale  bread  in  warm  water  and  mix  together  all  ingred- 
ients thoroughly.    Fry  in  fat  until  done.    Mash  add  to  the  sauce 
and  simmer  for  3  0  minutes.    The  longer  the  better.    If  too 
thick  add  little  water.     Good  on  hot  dogs,  hamburger  and 
spaghetti. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 

DINNER  IN  A  DISH 
(Chicken) 

1  small  or  medium  chicken  1     cup  tomatoes 

2  carrots,  chopped  fine  3     cups  hot  water 
2     onions,  chopped  fine  2     cloves 

1     cup  uncooked  rice  2     or  3  teaspoons  salt 

Brown  chicken  in  fat,  place  in  baking  dish.     Mix  salt, 
carrots,  onions,  rice  and  tomatoes  and  pour  over  chicken. 
Add  hot  water  and  cloves.    Bake  in  covered  dish  in  moderate 
oven  for   1  hour. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 
1     stalk  celery,  cut  coarse  2     cans  tomatoes 

1  pound  onion,  cut  up  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  large  green  peppers ,  1     box  spaghetti 

cut  coarse  1-1/2  pounds  ground  steak 

Cook  celery,  onions,  peppers  and  tomatoes  in  heavy  boiler 
very  slowly  until  tender.    Add  1  box  spaghetti  which  has  been 
boiled  in  clear  salted  water  and  drained.    Add  ground  steak 
which  has  been  fried  in  bacon  drippings.     Toss  all  this  together 
and  simmer  until  done.    Never  stir  the  mixture.    It  requires 
about  2  hours  after  the  vegetables  are  prepared  to  finish  with 
spaghetti. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Warren. 

BAKED  FISH 
Din  fish  in  well  salted  milk  (1  teaspoon  to  each  cup),  then  in 
finely  sifted  bread  crumbs.     Place  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle 
with  melted  butter  and  brown  quickly  (10  to  20  minutes)  in  hot 
oven.     Use  no  water. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 
2     cups  of  cooked  chicken  Few  grains  paprika 

(cut  in  strips)  1     cup  pimiento,  shredded 

2     cups  chicken  stock  2     egg  yolks,  beaten 

l/2  cup  butter  slightly 

1/2  cup  flour  1     teaspoon  salt 

l/2  cup  heavy  cream  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

l/4  cup  milk,  scalded  (or  to  taste) 

Melt  butter.    Add  flour,  chicken  stock,  cream  and  milk,  and 
paprika.    Bring  to  boil  and  cook  about  5  minutes.    Remove 
from  heat  and  add  chicken,  egg  yolks,  pimiento,  salt  and 
pepper.    Serve  at  once  on  toast  or  patty  shells. 

Mrs.  Coleman  Carter. 

DEVILLED  CRAB 

1  can  crab  meat  1    teaspoon  salt 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  2    tablespoons  bread  crumbs 
2    tablespoons  butter  1     green  pepper 

2    tablespoons  flour  1     onion 

1     cup  milk  l/2  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1     teaspoon  pepper  Sauce 

1     teaspoon  mustard  Little  lemon  juice 

Make  cream  sauce  first  then  add  other  ingredients.    Cook 
slowly  approximately  20  minutes. 

Annie  Laurie  Bullard. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 
Boil  peppers  in  salt  water  for  5  minutes.    Cut  in  halves, 
remove  seeds  and  stuff  with  the  following  mixture. 
1     small  onion  1     cup  toinatoes  or  tomato 

1     cup  cooked  ham  juice 

1     cup  bread  crumbs  1     tablespoon  butter 

Salt  to  taste 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  25  minutes.    Stuffs  about  8 
peppers. 

Mrs.  Frank  Jones. 

MEAT  LOAF 
1/2  pound  ground  pork  1     teaspoon  baking  powder 

1     pound  ground  beef  1     egg 

Bread  crumbs,  3  biscuits  2    tablespoons  butter 

1     finely  chopped  onion  3/4  cup  sweet  milk 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  A  little  catsup,  if  you  like 

Combine  ingredients  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren. 


10 


AMERICAN  CHOP  SUEY 
1    box  long  spaghetti  3    small  onions 

1  pound  hamburger  1    No.  2  can  tomato  juice 
4    medium  sized  peppers                  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  spaghetti  in  salted  water,  then  drain.    Fry  hamburger 
in  a  little  fat  until  brown.    Fry  peppers  in  a  little  fat  until 
tender.    Fry  onions  in  a  little  fat  until  tender.    Blend  together 
all  ingredients.    Add  tomato  juice  and  bring  to  boil.    Serve 
while  hot. 

Mrs.  Oliver  L.  Croom. 

JUMBO  SHRIMP 

2  pounds  raw  shrimp  1     egg 

1-1/4  pound  cracker  meal  Deep  fat,  Wesson  Oil 

Peel  and  clean  shrimp  and  roll  in  meal,  dip  in  batter  of 
egg  and  milk.    Roll  again  in  meal.    When  rolling  curve  so 
ends  makes  holders.    Fry  in  deep  fat  3  minutes.    Mix  sauce 
stuff  and  serve  with  french  fries  and  corn  sticks. 

SAUCE 
4    cups  catsup  4    tablespoons  horse-radish 

3  tablespoons  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Broadwell,  Jr. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 
Melt  3  tablespoons  butter.    Cook  in  it  1  tablespoon  chopped 
onion,  2  tablespoons  green  pepper.    When  softened  and  yellow 
add:     3  tablespoons  flour,  l/2  teaspoon  salt.    Stir  until  flour 
is  absorbed.    Add  1  cup  chicken  broth,  l/2  cup  tomato  pulp. 
Stir  until  mixture  boils.    Add:     1  teaspoon  horse-radish,   1 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,   1-1/2  cups  chicken.    Cut  in  fine  pieces. 
When  thoroughly  hot  serve  in  a  border  of  plain  rice  and  gar- 
nish with  green  peas. 

Mrs.  Gordon  Love. 

BROILED  STEAK 
Porterhouse  or  T-bone  steak  1  inch  thick.    Wipe  and  trim. 
Preheat  broiler  to  500  degrees  F.  for  5  minutes.    Place  meat 
on  rack  in  broiler  pan.    Cook  10  to  15  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove  to  hot  platter,  season  with  salt  and  dot  with  butter. 
Add  a  few  drips  of  water  to  gravy  and  pour  over  meat.    Serve 
hot. 

Mrs.  Frank  Jones. 

SAUSAGE 
1 Z  pounds  ground  pork,  3  ounces  salt  (6  level  tablespoons), 
1     ounce  pepper  (ground  red,   1  level  tablespoon),  1  tablespoon 
sage.     Pour  seasoning  over  meat  before  grinding.    Mix  well. 
Form  patties. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

11 


CHICKEN  PIE 
Cook  hen  tender  and  remove  from  bones.    Line  bottom  of 
pan  with  pastry  (make  same  as  biscuit  dough,  but  use  more 
shortening).    Put  in  chicken  thickly.    Add  black  pepper  and 
plenty  of  butter.    Add  enough  broth  to  have  it  juicy  when  done. 
Put  on  top  crust  and  spread  with  butter.    Sprinkle  a  little  flour 
on  top  to  make  it  brown  nicely.    Bake  at  400  degrees  F.  until 
well  browned. 

Mrs.  Jack  West. 

CHICKEN  PIE 
Boil  a  fowl  until  it  is  tender,  remove  from  the  bones.     Chop 
meat.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Line  deep  pan  with  pastry 
put  in  chopped  seasoned  chicken.    Thicken  broth  in  which 
chicken  was  boiled.    Pour  over  chicken  if  you  like  boiled  eggs 
can  be  sliced  and  put  over  chicken.    Cover  with  pastry  and 
bake  in  slow  oven  until  pastry  is  brown.    Use  any  rich  pastry. 

BEEF  LOAF 
Mix  together  3  pounds  of  raw  ground  beef,  1/4  pound  ground 
pork,  1  cup  cracker  dust,  2  teaspoons  each  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Moisten  with  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice. 
Work  in  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  pack  in  a  greased 
mold  or  make  into  a  loaf,  put  in  roaster  and  cook  in  a  steady 
oven  for  2  hours.    Remove  loaf  to  a  hot  platter.     Make  rich 
brown  gravy  and  serve  with  hot  rice. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren. 

BROILED  STEAK 
Select  a  sirloin  or  porterhouse  steak  1   inch  thick.    Place 
upon  nearly  red  hot  broiler  and  sear  both  sides  well,  then  re- 
duce heat  and  cook  slowly  5  minutes,  turning  often.    Have 
platter  hot  with  plenty  of  melted  butter  in  it,  place  steak  on 
platter,  then  salt  and  pepper  it.    Do  not  beat  steak  and  never 
salt  until  taken  from  fire. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren. 

POAST  BEEF 
Take  a  4  pound  roast,  salt  heavily  and  let  stand  for  2  hours. 
Rinse  thoroughly,  wipe  with  a  cloth.    Season  lightly  with  pepper 
and  salt.    Sear  in  hot  fat  until  brown.    Slice  an  onion  into 
roaster  and  brown.    Add  enough  flour  to  make  thick  gravy. 
When  onion  and  flour  have  browned,  add  enough  hot  water  to 
half  cover  roast.    Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 

Mrs.  J.  K.  West. 


12 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 
3    tablespoons  flour  1     cup  grated  cheese 

3    tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

3  eggs  l/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk 

Put  butter  and  flour  in  saucepan  and  stir  until  blended  with- 
out browning.    Add  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  stir  until  mix- 
ture boils.    Then  add  grated  cheese,  salt  and  pepper  and  set 
aside  to  cool.    Beat  eggs,  yolks  and  whites,  separately.    Then 
add  yolks  to  mixture  in  saucepan  and  blend  thoroughly.    Then 
add  the  baking  powder  to  the  whites  and  beat  them  to  a  stiff 
froth.     Fold  the  whites  into  the  mixture  and  turn  the  souffle 
into  a  well  greased  dish.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  25 
minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Daisy  P.  Carter. 

EGG  AND  CHEESE  PUFFS 

4  eggs  1    tablespoon  chopped  onion 
l/3  cup  flour  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/3  pound  sharp  cheese  1    teaspoon  baking  powder 

l/3  cup  Crisco  for  frying 

All  measurements  level.    Beat  eggs.     Combine  with  onion, 
flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.    Add  cheese  which  has  been  cut 
in  l/4  inch  cubes,  heat  Crisco  in  skillet,  dip  as  much  of  the 
mixture  as  a  tablespoon  will  hold.    Drop  into  hot  Crisco,  fry 
golden  brown  on  both  sides.    Serve  with  fried  tomatoes.    Dip 
tomato  slices  in  salted  flour  and  fry  lightly  in  Crisco.     Use 
tomatoes  that  are  about  half  ripe. 

Mrs.  Fred  McGrath. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 
l/2  cup  butter  or  other  4    teaspoons  of  ice  water 

shortening  1    teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  grated  American  1-1/2  cups  flour 
Cheese                                                     Pinch  of  red  pepper 

1     teaspoon  baking  powder 

Sift  flour  with  salt  and  baking  powder.    Work  in  shortening 
and  add  cheese.    Add  enough  ice  water  to  make  pliable  dough. 
Roll  thin,  cut  into  sticks.    Bake  until  done  but  not  brown  in 
moderate  oven.    Good  with  spice  tea. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

MACARONI  DELIGHT 
l/2  pound  macaroni,   1   cup  tomatoes,   1  cup  cheese,   l/4  cup 
butter,   1/4  teaspoon  pepper,   1  teaspoon  salt.     Cook  macaroni 
15  minutes  (or  until  tender)  in  boiling,  salted  water.     Drain. 
Place  in  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  tomatoes,  cheese, 
butter.    Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.    Serve  hot,  serves  4  to  6. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 

13 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 
1     cup  corn  2    tablespoons  melted 

1     cup  cheese,  grated  butter 

1     green  pepper  2    tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk  2     eggs 

Mix  flour,  butter,  eggs  and  milk  together.    Add  corn, 
cheese,  pepper,  salt  and  dash  of  red  pepper.    (Cook  corn  and 
pepper  a  little  before  mixing  with  other  ingredients.    Bake 
slowly  until  firm. 

Annie  Laurie  Bullard. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

2  cups  diced  chicken  3     chopped  apples 
1     cup  diced  celery  1     teaspoon  salt 

6    hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  l/2  teaspoon  pepper 

l/2  cup  melted  butter,  added  1    teaspoon  sugar 

to  chicken  while  warm 
Mix  with  the  following  dressing. 
DRESSING 
1    water  glass  vinegar  1     large  tablespoon  butter 

1    teaspoon  sugar 

Heat  until  warm,  add  4  well  beaten  eggs  and  l/2  teaspoon 
dry  mustard.    Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.    Salt  to 
taste. 

Mrs.  R.  G.  Dawson. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 
1     cup  diced  cooked  chicken  Salt  to  taste 

l/2  cup  diced  celery  l/4  cup  olives 

1     hard  boiled  egg  A  small  mild  onion  or 

1  chopped  green  pepper  1/4  cup  chopped  nuts  may 
l/2  cup  mayonnaise  be  added 

Have  all  ingredients  very  cold.     Cut  meat  and  egg  into 
small  pieces.    Nuts  may  be  omitted  as  may  pepper  and  olives. 
Do  not  stir  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  mixture  mushy. 

Mrs.  Oliver  L.  Croom. 

HAM  SALAD 

2  cups  chopped  cooked  ham  1     cup  chopped  celery 
2     chopped  hard  boiled  eggs 

Stir  in  l/4  cup  mayonnaise  and  1  tablespoon  chili  sauce. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 
1   quart  diced  boiled  chicken,  1  pint  finely  chopped  celery,  4 
hard  boiled  eggs,  6  olives  or  pickles,  salt  and  pepper.    Mix 
ingredients  well  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Jack  West. 

14 


"Be  Thrifty  In  Fifty"  And  Trade  With  Us 

SMITH'S  FRIENDLY  GROCERY 

Your  Patronage  Appreciated 

A  Trial  Will  Prove  It 

Archie  Smith 

Garland North  Carolina 


GARLAND  BEAUTY  SALON 

Shampoos  -  Manicures  -  Haircuts 

Machine  And  Machineless  Permanents 

Cold  Waves 

Mrs.  Oliver  L.  Croom,  Operator 

Garland  North  Carolina 


LOVE  HARDWOOD  COMPANY 

Manufacturers  Of 

Hardwood  Furniture  Dimensions 

Garland  Phone  382         North  Carolina 


GARLAND  SERVICE  STATION 

Gas  -  Oil  -  Pure  Tires  -  Tubes 

General  Auto  Repairing 

Battery  Charging 

Phone  401 

Garland  North  Carolina 


BREADS 

FOOL  PROOF  ROLLS 
(icebox  rolls) 
2    cups  boiling  water  8    cups  flour 

l/2  cup  sugar  2    cakes  yeast 

l/4  cup  lukewarm  water  2    tablespoons  shortening 

1  tablespoon  salt  1    teaspoon  sugar 

2  eggs 

Mix  boiling  water,  l/2  cup  sugar,  salt  and  shortening.    Let 
cool  to  lukewarm.    Soften  yeast  in  l/4  cup  lukewarm  water, 
add  1  teaspoon  sugar  and  add  to  first  mixture.    Add  well  beat- 
en eggs,  stir  in  flour,  4  cups  at  a  time,  but  do  not  knead.    Cov- 
er in  icebox  to  have  on  hand.    Shape  into  clover  leaf  rolls  or 
any  shape  desired  and  let  raise  about  1  —  1  /Z  hours.    Bake  in 
hot  oven,  425  degrees  F.,  for  15  to  20  minutes. 

Willis  M.  Orr. 

EGG  CORN  BREAD 
1     cup  corn  meal  2    teaspoons  sugar 

l/4  cup  flour  1/8  teaspoon  soda 

1    teaspoon  baking  powder  1    egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  1     cup  buttermilk 

2  tablespoons  cooking  fat 

Sift  meal,  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together. 
Dissolve  soda  in  milk.    Add  to  dry  ingredients,  stirring  well. 
Add  beaten  egg,  fold  in.    Spoon  into  hot  greased  muffin  tins. 
Bake  in  hot  oven,  450  degrees  F.,  15  to  20  minutes.    Makes  6 
large  or  8  small  muffins. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Gaines. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  POLLS 
2     cups  plain  white  flour  1     tablespoon  sugar 

2    cups  whole  wheat  flour  5    level  tablespoons  fat 

1     teaspoon  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  salt  with  flour  then  cut  in  fat  thoroughly. 
Dissolve  1  package  yeast  in  warm  water.     Stir  well  and  in  2 
minutes  after  adding  water  pour  into  flour  mixture.    Add  1 
unbeaten  egg  and  beat  in  center  of  flour.    Add  milk  and  work 
in  well.    Let  rise  in  warm  place  until  double  in  bulk.     Mash 
down  make  out  rolls  in  desired  shape.    Let  rise  until  double 
or  a  dent  will  remain.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  15 
minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 


17 


CORN  BREAD 
1     cup  sifted  flour  1     cup  corn  meal 

3-1/2  teaspoons  baking  powder      1     egg 
1     teaspoon  salt  1     cup  milk 

3     tablespoons  sugar  l/4  cup  shortening,  melted 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.    Add 
corn  meal  and  mix  thoroughly.     Combine  egg,  milk,  shorten- 
ing and  pour  into  dry  ingredients.    Stir  just  enough  to  moisten 
dry  ingredients.    Turn  into  a  greased  pan  and  bake  at  400 
degrees  F.,  for  30  minutes.    Or  fill  greased  muffin  pans  2/3 
full.     Bake  for  30  minutes.     (Makes   12  medium  sized  muffins). 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 

BUTTERMILK  ROLLS 
1     cup  sour  buttermilk  1     tablespoon  sugar 

1     cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  1     teaspoon  sifted  soda 

1     teaspoon  salt  3     cups  sifted  flour 

Dissolve  yeast,  salt,  soda,  and  sugar  in  milk.    Add  to  flour 
in  which  shortening  has  been  cut.    Knead  lightly.    Roll  out  de- 
sired thickness,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.    Let  rise  in  warm 
place  for  2  hours.    Bake  in  oven  (preheat)  400  degrees  F.  for 
12  to  15  minutes.     Dough  can  be  kept  in  covered  bowl  in 
refrigerator  for  several  days  before  baking, 

Mrs.  Gordon  Love. 

SPOON  BREAD 
(The  best) 

1  cup  corn  meal  1     cup  milk 

2  cups  cold  water  2     or  3  eggs 

2    teaspoons  salt  2    tablespoons  melted  fat 

Mix  the  meal,  water  and  salt  and  boil  for  5  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly.    Add  the  milk,  well  beaten  eggs  and  melted 
fat  and  mix  well.     Pour  in  a  well  greased  hot  pan  or  baking 
dish  and  bake  for  45  to  50  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  400  degrees 
F.    Serve  from  pan  in  which  baked. 

Mrs.  B.  B.  Osborne. 

BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 
l/3  cup  shortening  1     cup  milk 

2/3  cup  sugar  1     teaspoon  salt 

1     egg  2    teaspoons  baking  powder 

2-3/4  cups  flour  1-1  /2  cups  blueberries 

Cream  shortening.    Add  sugar  to  it  gradually,  then  the 
beaten  eggs.    Add  alternately  milk  and  blended  flour,  salt,  and 
baking  powder.     Fold  in  the  blueberries.     Bake  in  greased 
muffin  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  400  degrees  F.,  for  25  minutes. 
Makes  24  small  muffins. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Warren. 


PLAIN  ROLLS 

1  pint  sweet  milk  1  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in 
l/2  cup  sugar  l/2  cup  lukewarm  water  or 
l/2, cup  mashed  Irish  potatoes  milk 

l/2  cup  lard  1    teaspoon  baking  powder 

7    cups  sifted  plain  flour,  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

measured  after  sifting,  1-1/2  teaspoons  salt 

resift 

Mix  hot  milk,  lard,  sugar  and  mashed  potatoes  together. 
Let  cook  until  lukewarm  and  add  yeast  water.    Mix  liquid 
with  flour  and  set  up  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk.    Work  again 
and  make  or  put  in  refrigerator  in  covered  bowl  to  use  later. 

Mrs.  Luben  Bullard. 

CHIPPED  HAM  BISCUITS 

2  cups  flour,  plain  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  4    tablespoons  fat 
l/2  cup  cooked  chipped  ham  Milk  (about  1   cup) 

Sift  flour,  measure  and  add  salt  and  baking  powder.    Re- 
sift.    Cut  fat  into  flour  and  add  the. chipped  ham.    Add  enougn 
milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Drop  with  teaspoon  onto  baking 
sheet.     Bake  in  hot  oven,  425  degrees  F.,   12  to  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Jack  West. 

HUSH  PUPPIES 

2  cups  corn  meal  1     cup  buttermilk 
1    tablespoon  flour  1    teaspoon  salt 
l/2  teaspoon  soda                                 1    whole  egg 

1     teaspoon  baking  powder  3    tablespoons  chopped  onion 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together.    Add  onion,  then  milk  and 
last  the  beaten  egg.     Fry  in  deep  hot  fat  until  golden  brown. 
Drain  on  paper. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

CHEESE  BISCUITS 
1     cup  butter  2    teaspoons  salt 

3  cups  cheese  3    tablespoons  sugar 
3     cups  flour 

Cream  together  butter  and  cheese.    Add  flour  salt  and  sugar. 
Mix  thoroughly.     Roll  dough  into  a  roll  and  chill  in  refrigerator 
until  firm  enough  to  slice.    Slice  thin.    Brush  with  beaten  egg 
whites  (for  glaze)  and  place  pecan  half  on  each  biscuit.    These 
may  be  rolled  out  and  cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter. 

Mrs.  Rosalind  R. 
Cromartic. 


19 


CHEESE  WAFFLES 
Beat  2  egg  yolks  until  light.    Blend  in  1-1/4  cups  of  milk 
and  6  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.    Sift  together  2  cups  of 
sifted  cake  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  l/4  tea- 
spoon of  salt.    Add  the  dry  ingredients  to  egg  mixture.    Beat 
until  smooth  and  creamy.    Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  fold 
into  the  batter  along  with  1  cup  of  grated  cheese.    Bake  in  hot 
waffle  baker  until  the  steam  ceases.    Top  with  butter  and 
syrup.    Serve  with  bacon  and  fried  sausage. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS 
1     egg  l/4  teaspoon  soda 

1     cup  buttermilk  1    teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg,  add  buttermilk,  soda  and  salt.  Add  enough  meal 
to  make  soft  batter.  Put  in  hot  well  greased  pans.  If  you  de- 
sire add  a  little  melted  shortening.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

QUEEN  MUFFIN 
1     egg  1  —  1  /Z  cups  flour 

l/4  cup  shortening  l/4  teaspoon  soda 

l/3  cup  sugar  1    teaspoon  salt 

l/2  cup  sour  milk 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  soda  and  salt  together.     Cut  in  shortening, 
add  milk  and  beaten  egg.    Bake  in  moderate  oven.    Variation: 
Add  raw  huckleberries  to  batter  before  baking. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

SPOON  BREAD 
2  cups  milk  heat  to  boiling  point.    Add  2/3  cup  corn  meal. 
Cook  thick.    Add  2  egg  yolks,  pinch  of  salt.     Fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.     Bake  about  20  minutes  in  medium  oven  in 
casserole. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Johnson. 


20 


ABEL-WARREN  AND  CO.  INC. 

Ladies  Ready-To-Wear 

Lingerie  -  Shoes 

J.  J.  STAFFORD  AND  SON 

Fertilizer  Dealer 

Phone  236 

Garland                                                        North 

Carolina 

GARLAND  DRUG  COMPANY 

The  Drug  Store  Of  Good  Service 

Garland                                                        North 

Carolina 

SMITH  CAFE 

Short  Orders,  Barbecue 

Garland                                                         North 

Carolina 

DESSERTS     AND     PASTRIES 

BAVARIAN  NUT  BREAD 
1/2  cup  butter  3     mashed  bananas 

1  cup  sugar  1     teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  flour  1/2  teaspoon  salt 
l/2  cup  black  walnuts                          2     eggs 

or  pecans  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  egg  yolks  and  mashed 
bananas.     Then  add  flour  with  salt  and  soda  sifted  together. 
Next  add  vanilla  and  nuts,  chopped.    Last  of  all  fold  in  the 
beaten  egg  whites.     Pour  in  loaf  pan  and  bake   1  hour  in  slow 
oven,  350  degrees  F.    A  sauce  may  be  used  on  this  and  serve 
as  a  dessert  or  it  makes  delicious  sandwiches  spread  with 
butter  or  cream  cheese. 

Mrs.  Daisy  P.  Carter. 

CARROT  PUDDING 

l/2  cup  shortening  1-1/4  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  brown  sugar  1     teaspoon  baking  powder 

1     egg  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  grated  raw  carrots  1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1/2  cup  seedless  raisins  1/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1/2  cup  currants  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  thinly  cut  1     tablespoon  water 
lemon  peel 

Blend  shortening  with  sugar  and  egg.    Beat  lightly.    Add 
grated  carrots,  raisins,  currants  and  lemon  peel.    Stir  in 
flour  previously  sifted  with  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices. 
Mix  thoroughly.     Then  add  the  soda  dissolved  in  water.     Pour 
into  well  greased  loaf  pan  or  tube  mold.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven, 
325  degrees  F.,  for   1   hour.    Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  hard 
sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

BROWN  BETTY 
2     tablespoons  melted  butter  Juice  of  1   orange  or  enough 

2     cups  toasted  bread  crumbs         water  to  make 
4     sliced  or  chopped  apples  1/2  cup  liquid 

Grating  from   1   lemon  or  1/3  cup  sugar 

orange  rind 

Put  the  buttered  crumbs   into  a  baking  dish  in  alternate 
layers  with  the  apples,  making  the  last  layer  of  crumbs  and 
sprinkle  each  layer  of  apples  with  the  fruit  juice,  water  and 
sugar.     Bake   1  hour.     Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  cream.     Pine- 
apple can  be  used  the  same  way,  using  pineapple  juice  for  the 
liquid. 

Mrs.  Daisy  P.  Carter. 


23 


APPLE  CRISP 

4    cups  chopped  or  sliced  1     cup  sugar 

apples  (about  4  large  3/4  cup  flour 

apples)  1     teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  l/2  cup  butter 

Butter  a  shallow  baking  dish  and  put  in  apples,  chopped  or 

sliced.    Sprinkle  with  salt.    Sift  flour  once  before  measuring. 

Mix  flour,  cinnamon  and  sugar  together  and  cut  in  butter  until 

crumbly.    Spread  this  mixture  over  apples.     Bake  uncovered 

45  minutes  at  350  degrees  F.,  for   1  hour.    Serve  plain  or  with 

whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

SPANISH  DELIGHT 
2    eggs,  beaten  1     cup  nuts 

2  tablespoons  flour  1/2  pint  whipped  cream 
1     tablespoon  melted  butter              1     small  can  crushed 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  pineapple 

8    diced  marshmallows  1     small  bottle  cherries 

Cook  together  first  four  ingredients  until  thick.    Add 
marshmallows.     Let  cool  and  add  remaining  ingredients  and 
freeze. 

Mrs.   John  A.  Warren. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE  CREAM 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple      16    marshmallows 

1/4  cup  water  1     cup  evaporated  milk 

Heat  (don't  boil)  the  pineapple  and  water.    Add  marshmal- 
lows and  stir  until  melted.    When  cool  pour  into  freezing  tray 
and  begin  to  freeze.     Chill  the  milk  until  ice  cold  and  whip 
until  thick  and  creamy.     Combine  with  mixture  and  pour  into 
freezing  tray.    Stir  once  after  it  begins  to  freeze. 

Mrs.  Colin  Lamb. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 
1-1/2  ounces  unsweetened  Few  grains  salt 

chocolate  2/3  cup  sugar 

2  cups  rich  milk  1-1/2  teaspoons  vanilla 
1     tablespoon  cornstarch  1     cup  cream 

Melt  chocolate  on  low  heat  and  add  scalded  milk  very 
slowly.     Mix  cornstarch  with  sugar  and  add  to  chocolate  mix- 
ture.    Cook  10  minutes,  stirring  until  thickened.     Cool,  add 
vanilla.     Turn  into  freezing  tray  and  freeze  to  a  mush.    Fold 
in  whipped  cream  and  return  to  chilling  unit  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Warren. 


24 


LEMON  JELLO  DESSERT 
1     package  lemon  jello  1     tall  can  Carnation 

1-1/2  cups  boiling  water  Milk 

1     cup  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Pour  boiling  water  over  jello.    Dissolve  and  add  sugar. 
Cool  and  when  beginning  to  set.    Add  milk  which  has  been 
chilled  in  refrigerator  and  then  whipped  stiff  with  lemon  juice. 
Pour  a  graham  cracker  crust  over  this. 

Mrs.  Abel  McRae  Warren. 

APPLE  SNOW 
Dash  of  nutmeg  1-2/3  cups  applesauce 

Pinch  of  salt  (unsweetened) 

1     teaspoon  vanilla  2     egg  whites 

l/4  cup  granulated  sugar 
Add  nutmeg,  salt  and  vanilla  to  applesauce.    Beat  the  egg 
whites  until  stiff.    Add  sugar,  continuing  to  beat.     Fold  into 
applesauce  mixture.     Chill  and  serve  plain  or  with  cream. 
Serves  5  or  6. 

Marian  Rich. 

BAKED  RICE  PUDDING  WITH  RAISINS 
4    cups  milk  3/4  cup  raisins,  seedless 

3    tablespoons  raw  white  rice         1    teaspoon  vanilla 
l/4  teaspoon  salt  l/4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

l/4  cup  granulated  sugar 

Combine  the  milk  and  the  rice  in  top  of  double  boiler  and 
cook  for  2  hours,  stirring  occasionally.     Then  add  other 
ingredients.    Turn  into  greased  pan  or  casserole  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  for  45  minutes. 

Marian  Rich. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 
3/4  cup  of  sugar  3/4  cup  of  water 

Bring  to  boil.    Add  1   small  can  of  crushed  pineapple  and 
fruit  juices  if  you  have  any.     Freeze  to  a  mush.    Add  l/2  cup 
of  cream  and  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.     Freeze. 

Mrs.  Abel  Warren. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 
3     e8gs  5    tablespoons  flour 

1  —  1  /Z  cups  sugar  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  milk  Butter  size  of  egg 

3  tablespoons  cocoa 

Mix  all  ingredients.     Pour  into  greased  pan  and  cook  in  hot 
oven.     Use  meringue  on  top. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 


25 


LEMON  DELIGHT 
3     egg  yolks,  beaten  4    teaspoons  lemon  juice 

l/2  cup  sugar 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  cook  to  a  custard.     Fold  in  l/2 
pint  whipped  cream  and  3  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.    Line  the 
refrigerator  tray  with  graham  crackers.     Pour  in  filling. 
Sprinkle  graham  cracker  crumbs  on  top.     Freeze. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

2  cups  of  mashed  peaches  2    cups  rich  milk 
1     cup  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly  and  freeze  in  tray  until  a  thick  mush.    Re- 
move and  set  in  bowl  of  ice  and  beat  until  fluffy.    Beat  with 
egg  beater.    Add  cup  of  whipped  cream  and  return  to  tray  and 
finish  freezing. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren. 

CHERRY  ICEBOX  PIE 
Drain  and  save  juice  from  2  cups  sour  pitted  cherries, 
cooked  or  canned.    To  l/4  cup  juice  add  l/4  cup  sugar.    Heat 
to  boiling  point.    Add  and  stir  until  dissolved  l/2  package 
lemon  gelatin.    Add  drained  cherries  and  chill  until  beginning 
to  thicken.     Meanwhile  rub  with  soft  butter  bottom  and  sides 
of  deep  9  inch  pie  plate.    Roll  into  fine  crumbs,  12  graham 
crackers,  2-1/2  inches.    Add  and  mix  thoroughly  l/4  cup 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.    Reserve   1 /4  cup  of  mix- 
ture.   With  back  of  spoon  press  remaining  crumb  mixture  on 
bottom  and  sides  of  pie  plate.    Spread  chilled  cherry  mixture 
over  crumbs  while  preparing  the  following  mixture.    Mix 
together  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks,   1/4  cup  sugar,   l/8  tea- 
spoon salt,   1-1/2  teaspoons  grated  lemon  rind,  3/4  cup  evap- 
orated milk  diluted  with  l/4  cup  water.     Cook  over  hot  water 
until  mixture  thickens  slightly,  about  4  minutes.    Add  and  stir 
until  dissolved  l/2  package  lemon  jello.     Chill  until  beginning 
to  thicken.    Beat  2  egg  whites  stiffly  and  fold  into  mixture. 
Spread  on  cherry  mixture.    Sprinkle  with  reserved  crumb 
mixture.     Continue  chilling  until  firm  and  ready  to  serve. 
Serves  6. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

CHERRY  TARTS 
8    baked  deep  tart  shells  2    tablespoons  flour 

3  cups  seeded  cherries  3     tablespoons  butter 
1     cup  sugar  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  all  ingredients.     Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Pour  into  baked  shells  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 


26 


LEMON  UPSIDE  DOWN  PIE 
4    egg  whites  1     cup  sugar 

1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Add  sugar  gradually  to  beaten  egg  whites  and  beat  until  it 
stands  in  peaks.     Cut  brown  paper  to  fit  bottom  of  pie  pan  or 
tin.     Grease  well.     Pour  in  egg  whites  and  bake  at  300  degrees 
F.,  for  1  hour.     Turn  bottom  side  upon  plate,  remove  paper. 
Chill  thoroughly  in  cool  place. 

FILLING 
4    egg  yolks  1     grated  lemon  rind 

l/Z  cup  sugar  3    tablespoons  lemon  juice 

l/2  pint  whipped  cream 

Cook  in  double  boiler,  beating  egg  yolks,  lemon  rind,  sugar 
and  juice  until  thick.     Cool  use  baked  meringue  as  pie  shell. 
Put  layer  of  cream  then  layer  of  filling.     Top  with  cream. 
Chill  in  refrigerator  for  24  hours. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Broadwell,  Jr. 

HEAVENLY  PIE 
1  —  1  /Z  cups  granulated  sugar  1     tablespoon  lemon  rind, 

l/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  grated 

4    eggs,  separated  l/8  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1     pint  whipping  cream 

Sift  1   cup  sugar  and  the  cream  of  tartar.     Beat  egg  whites 
until  stiff  and  add  sugar  mixture  and  beat  until  thoroughly 
blended.    Grease  pie  pan  and  line  with  meringue.    Hollow  out 
center  like  pie  crust,  not  too  thin.    Bake  in  slow  oven,  275 
degrees  F.,  for   1  hour.    While  baking,  beat  egg  yolks  slightly 
in  top  of  double  boiler.    Add  1/2  cup  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
lemon  rind  and  salt.     Cook  about  8  to  10  minutes  until  real 
thick.     Cool  and  add  most  of  the  whipped  cream  (leave  enough 
to  cover  the  top)  and  put  into  shell  after  cooling  shell.     Chill 
for  24  hours.     Cover  with  whipped  cream  and  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 
1     cup  water  l/8  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  2    lemons 

2  tablespoons  flour  2    level  tablespoons  sugar 

4  eggs,  for  big  pie  for  meringue 

Boil  water  and  sugar  together.     Add  the  flour  moistened 
with  a  little  cold  water.     Cook  for  5  minutes.    Add  yolks  of 
eggs,  lemon  juice,  lemon  rind  and  salt.     Cool  slightly  and  pour 
into  a  previously  baked  crust.     Cover  with  a  meringue  made 
by  beating  the  whites  of  3   eggs  with  the  sugar.     Put  into  a 
moderately  warm  oven  to  set  and  brown  the  meringue. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 


27 


PRIZE  PEACH  PIE 
1/2  cup  undiluted  evaporated  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

milk  16     quartered  marshmallows 

1-1/2  teaspoons  plain  1     teaspoon  grated  lemon 

gelatin  rind 

2    tablespoons  lemon  juice  1-1/2  cups  canned  cling 

2/3  cup  syrup  from  peaches  peaches,  sliced 

l/2  cup  granulated  sugar  1     baked  9  inch  pastry  shell 

Chill  milk  until  ice  cold.    Soften  gelatin  in  lemon  juice. 
Combine  peach  syrup,  sugar,  salt  and  marshmallows  and  cook. 
Stir  over  very  low  heat  until  marshmallows  are  melted.    Stir 
in  softened  gelatin  and  lemon  rind.    Chill  until  slightly  thicker 
than  unbeaten  egg  whites.    Whip  chilled  milk  with  cold  rotary 
beater  until  fluffy.     Fold  into  cold  gelatin  mixture.    Fold  in 
well  drained  peach  slices.     Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell  and 
chill  until  firm.     Decorate  with  additional  peach  slices  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream,  if  you  like.     Can  be  used  as  dessert 
without  the  pie  shell. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

ANGEL  FOOD  PIE 
FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  1     cup  drained  crushed 
l/4  cup  cornstarch  pineapple 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  boiling  water  1     tablespoon  lemon  juice 
2     egg  whites 

Combine  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt.    Add  boiling  water 
and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.    Allow  to  cook  over 
hot  water   15  minutes  longer.     Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff. 
Gradually  pour  hot  mixture  into  egg  whites,  stirring  while 
adding.    Add  pineapple,  vanilla  and  lemon  juice.     Cool  and  put 
in  baked  pie  shell.     Chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

APPLE  CRUMB  PIE 
1     cup  dark  brown  sugar  Pecan  meats 

3/4  cup  flour  l/2  pint  whipped  cream 

1/2  cup  butter  or  margarine  Pie  pastry 

4    apples  (tart) 

Line  9  inch  pie  plate  with  pastry.     Mix  sugar,  shortening  and 
flour,  blending  together.     Pare  apples  and  slice  thinly.    Line 
pastry  with  layer  of  apples.     Cover  with  sugar  mixture.    Then 
another  layer  of  apples.     Cover  with  remainder  of  sugar  mix- 
ture.   Bake  in  hot  oven,  400  degrees  F.,  for  40  minutes  or  until 
apples  are  tender.     Decorate  top  with  pecan  meats.    Return  to 
oven  for  5  minutes.     Serve  warm  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

28 


COCONUT,  CHOCOLATE  PIE 
6    tablespoons  sifted  Swans  2    egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 

Down  Cake  Flour  1     cup  Baker's  Cocoanut 

3/4  cup  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  1    baked  9  inch  pie  shell 

3    tablespoons  cocoa  4    tablespoons  sugar 

2    cups  milk,  scalded  2    egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  chocolate.    Add  milk  grad- 
ually.    Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick  stirring 
constantly,    Pour  small  amount  of  mixture  over  egg  yolks. 
Return  to  double  boiler.    Add  coconut  and  cook  3  or  4  min- 
utes longer.    Add  vanilla.     Pour  into  pie  shell.    Top  with 
meringue  made  by  folding  sugar  into  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Bake  in  oven,  350  degrees  F.,  12  to  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1     egg  yolk 

2  tablespoons  butter  1     egg  white,  well  beaten 
2     generous  tablespoons  flour         1     cup  milk 

Boil  sugar  and  butter  together  until  soft.    Beat  egg  yolk 
well  and  add  to  flour,  then  add  milk.    Beat  until  very  smooth. 
Mix  this  well  with  the  sugar  and  butter  mixture  and  cook  until 
thickens.     Vanilla  may  be  used  for  flavoring.     Pour  into  a  pan 
lined  with  baked  pie  crust  and  top  with  meringue  made  from 
the  well  beaten  egg  white. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Johnson. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

2  cups  milk  1     cup  sugar 

l/3  cup  flour  l/8  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  cup  cocoa  3     eggs,  separated 

1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.    Add  sugar,  flour,  cocoa,  and 
salt.    Mix  well.    Stir  until  thick  and  smooth  about  10  minutes. 
Beat  egg  yolks  and  add.     Let  cook  5  minutes  longer.    Add 
vanilla.     Pour  into  baked  pie  shell  and  top  with  meringue. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Henry  Lamb. 

RAISIN,  APPLE  PIE 

3  apples,  cut  as  for  pie  1     tablespoon  cinnamon 
1     cup  water  1     cup  raisins 

1/2  cup  sugar  1     tablespoon  butter 

Put  all  ingredients  together  and  mix  thoroughly.     Put  in  un- 
baked pie  shell.    Top  with  crust  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  P.  S.  Heaton. 


29 


CHESS  PIE 

1  stick  butter  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  white  sugar  1    tablespoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  meal  1     cup  hot  water 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  sugar,  meal,  salt,  vanilla  and  hot 
water.    Add  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks.    Mix  thoroughly  and 
pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.    Bake  at  350  degrees  F.,  for  15 
minutes,  then  turn  oven  down  to  250  degrees  F.    Bake  slowly 
for  about  1-1/4  hours.    Use  your  own  judgement  about  cooking 
time  as  there  is  such  a  difference  in  stoves.    When  pie  seems 
to  be  done  set  out  and  let  cool  slightly.    While  cooling  put  into 
a  mixing  bowl:     4  egg  whites,  l/8  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
l/4  teaspoon  salt.    Beat  until  fairly  stiff,  then  put  in  8  table- 
spoons sugar.    Beat  until  mixture  is  really  thick  like  icing. 
Pile  this  mixture  on  your  pie  and  brown  slightly  in  moderate 
oven,  350  degrees  F.,  for  5  to  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

ICEBOX  FROZEN  PIE 

3  eggs  l/2  cup  lemon  juice 
l/2  cup  sugar                                          3    tablespoons  sugar 
1     can  of  milk 

Beat  egg  yolks.    Add  1/2  cup  of  sugar  to  lemon  juice  and 
put  in  saucepan  together  with  egg  yolks.     Cook  until  thick. 
Whip  chilled  milk.    Beat  egg  whites,  adding  the  3  tablespoons 
of  sugar.    Fold  in  whipped  cream.    To  this  add  the  boiled 
custard.    Mix  well.    Line  baking  dish  with  vanilla  cake  crumbs. 
Pour  mixture  on  top  of  crumbs.    Let  stand  in  freezing  unit 
until  frozen. 

Mrs.  Wilbert  Boone. 

BLUEBERRY  PIE 

4  cups  blueberries  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

4    tablespoons  flour  1-1/2  tablespoons  lemon 

1     cup  sugar  juice 

Plain  pastry 
Mix  berries  with  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  lemon  juice.    Roll 
out  pastry  and  line  pie  pan.     Pour  in  berry  mixture  and  cover 
with  pastry.    Bake  10  minutes  in  very  hot  oven,  450  degrees  F. 
Reduce  heat  to  350  degrees  F.  and  bake  25  to  30  minutes 
longer. 

Mrs.  Jack  West. 

PECAN  PIE 
3  eggs,  beaten,   l/4  cup  butter,   1  cup  sugar,   1  cup  Karo 
syrup,   1   cup  pecans.     Mix  together  thoroughly  and  cook  in  un- 
baked pie  shell  for  45  minutes  at  350  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  Jack  West. 


30 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1     stick  butter 

2  squares  bitter  chocolate  2    eggs 

l/4  cup  flour  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

l/8  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  together.    Stir  in  sugar  and 
flour,  salt  and  vanilla.    Mix  well.    Then  put  in  eggs  that  have 
been  very  lightly  beaten.    Pour  mixture  in  greased  Pyrex 
pie  plate  and  bake  for  25  minutes  at  350  degrees  F.    Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream  and  top  with 
cherry. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

ENGLISH  PIES 
1-1/2  cups  sugar  2    tablespoons  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  butter  1     cup  nuts 

3  eggs  1     cup  dates 

2    tablespoons  cold  water  1    tablespoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and 
beat  well.    Add  other  ingredients,  mix  well.    Bake  in  uncooked 
shells  45  minutes  at  400  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  L.  F.  Bullard. 

CHERRY  PIE 

1  can  cherries  2    tablespoons  flour  or 

2  tablespoons  butter  cornstarch 

3/4  cup  sugar 
Cook  juice,  sugar,  butter  and  flour  in  top  of  double  boiler 
until  thick.    Add  cherries  and  pour  into  pie  pan  lined  with 
crust.    Put  crust  on  top.    Bake  in  hot  oven,  400  degrees  F., 
for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wilbert  Boone. 


31 


32 


T.  P.  L0  MOTOR  COMPANY,  INC. 
Sales  /^HSIiy^pl  4  $$  #/  Se  rvice 


Telephone  2133 
Clinton North  Carolina 

THE  BRITT  CORPORATION 
John  Deere  Tractors  And 
General  Motor  Trucks 
Clinton  North  Carolina 


PARKER  FLORIST 
Flowers  For  All  Occasions 
Phone  2866  -  2697  -  108  Fayette  Street 
Clinton  North  Carolina 

"It  Pays  To  Buy  At" 
WIMBISH  BROTHERS  COMPANY 
Clinton's  Newest  Department  Store 
Clinton  North  Carolina 


COOKIES     AND     CAKES 

SUGAR  COOKIES 
3/4  cup  granulated  sugar  2    cups  sifted  all-purpose 

l/2  cup  melted  shortening  flour 

2  eggs,  beaten  1     teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
1    teaspoon  vanilla  l/2  teaspoon  baking  soda 

l/2  teaspoon  salt 
Blend  sugar  well  with  shortening.    Stir  in  beaten  eggs  and 
vanilla.    Sift  flour,  cream  of  tartar,  baking  soda  and  salt.    Add 
to  shortening  mixture  while  beating  well.    Chill  until  easy  to 
handle.    Turn  onto  lightly  floured  board.    Roll  to  l/8  inch 
thickness.    Cut  with  desired  shape  cutter.    Arrange  cookies 
on  cookie  sheet.    Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar.    Bake  in 
moderately  hot  oven.    Makes  1-1/2  to  2  dozen  cookies 

Mrs.  John  A.  McDaniel. 

FIFTY  DOLLAR  COOKIES 
1-1/2  cups  butter  5-1/2  cups  flour 

1-1/2  cups  brown  sugar,  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

sifted  2    teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  eggs  1    teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla. 
Sift  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt  with  flour  and  add  to  first 
mixture,  leaving  out  some  to  handle  with.     Mix  and  shape  into 
rolls   1-1/2  inches  thick  by  6  inches  long  or  in  oblongs.    Chill 
until  firm.    Slice  and  bake  at  325  degrees  F.     Place  the  follow- 
ing icing  between  two  of  the  cookies. 

ICING 
1     cup  powdered  sugar  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

1     tablespoon  milk,  cream  2     tablespoons  butter 

or  water 

Mix  well  and  spread  between  cookies. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  COOKIES 
3-1/2  cups  sifted  flour  2     cups  brown  sugar, 

1/2  tablespoon  soda  packed 

1/2  tablespoon  cream  of  2    eggs,  beaten  light 

tartar  1/2  tablespoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  butter  or  vegetable  fat 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.    Add  beaten  eggs,  then  add  flour, 
soda,  cream  of  tartar  and  vanilla.    Roll  out  and  cut  with  fancy 
cutter  or  roll  into  roll.     Chill  in  refrigerator  and  slice.    If 
desired  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts.     Bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  8  minutes. 

Mrs.  Rosalind  R. 
Cromartic. 


35 


PINWHEELS  COOKIES 
1/2  cup  butter  i/8  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  cup  sugar  3    tablespoons  milk 

1     egg  yolk  1-1/2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1-1/2  cups  sifted  flour  l/2  cup  cocoa 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  egg  yolk  and  beat  again, 
then  add  sifted  dry  ingredients.    Add  milk  and  vanilla.     Divide 
into  two  portions,  leave  one  plain  and  add  cocoa  to  other. 
Chill,  then  roll  out  both  portions  into  very  thin  oblong  sheets. 
Lay  chocolate  on  top  of  white,  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.     Chill 
again.     Then  cut  into  thin  slices  and  bake  on  greased  cookie 
sheet,  375  degrees  F.,  about  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 

BROWNIES 
2/3  cup  flour  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  teaspoon  baking  powder  6-1/2  tablespoons  butter 

2  squares  chocolate  1     cup  sugar 

2    eggs,  beaten  well  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

l/2  cup  nut  meats 

Cream  sugar  and  eggs,  add  butter  to  melted  chocolate, 
beat  well.    Mix  all  ingredients  well.    Spread  on  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.    Cut  in  squares  while  warm. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Johnson. 

GINGER  SNAPS 
3/4  cup  shortening  1     cup  sugar 

4    tablespoons  molasses  1     egg 

2    teaspoons  soda  2-1/2  cups  flour 

1     teaspoon  cloves  1    teaspoon  ginger 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.    Add  molasses  and  egg.    Beat 
well.    Add  sifted  dry  ingredients,  stir  until  smooth.    Roll  in 
balls  size  of  big  marble,  dip  in  sugar  and  place  2  inches  apart 
on  cookie  sheet.    Bake  in  moderate  oven,  350  degrees  F.,   15  to 
18  minutes. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 

PARTY  COOKIES 
1     stick  of  butter  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1     cup  confectioners  sugar  1     cup  nut  meats 

1  tablespoon  milk  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2    cups  cake  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  well,  add  milk  and  add  dry  ingredi- 
ents sifted.    Add  vanilla  and  nut  meats.     Pinch  off  pieces  of 
dough  about  size  of  thumb  nail  and  mash  out  on  baking  sheet. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.    When  baked  roll  in  confectioners 
sugar. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Sloan. 

36 


MUD  HENS 
l/2  cup  butter  1  —  1  /2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1    teaspoon  baking  powder 
l/2  teaspoon  salt  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs,  save  white  of  one  1     cup  chopped  nut  meats 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  other  ingredients. 

Spread  about  l/2  inch  thick  on  cookie  sheet.    Sprinkle  over 
this  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats.    Add  1  cup  brown  sugar  to 
the  unbeaten  white  of  an  egg  mixture  and  spread  thinly  over 
nuts.    Bake.    Cut  in  squares  while  warm. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

COOKIES 
1     cup  brown  sugar  1    teaspoon  soda 

1     cup  white  sugar  1     cup  flour 

1     cup  nut  meats  1    tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1     cup  butter  1/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1     egg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  egg,  flour,  soda,  lemon 
juice,  baking  powder  and  nut  meats.    Drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
baking  sheet  that  has  been  greased.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Warren. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  COOKIES 
1    package  of  butterscotch  l/2  teaspoon  soda 

or  chocolate  pudding  l/2  cup  melted  shortening 

1     cup  quick  cooking  l/2  teaspoon  cream  of 

oatmeal  tartar 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  1     egg 

Combine  ingredients,  form  into  rolls  and  chill  in  refriger- 
ator.   Slice  and  bake  at  350  degrees  F.,  10  to  12  minutes.    If 
you  like  cookies  real  sweet  add  more  sugar. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

TEA  CAKES 
5    cups  flour  l/8  cup  water 

1  teaspoon  soda  l/2  cup  shortening 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  (try  2)  l/2  teaspoon  lemon 
1-1  /Z  cups  brown  sugar  extract 

Sift  flour,  soda,  cream  of  tartar  together.     Cut  shortening 
into  flour.    Beat  eggs  and  add  sugar,  then  add  water  and 
flavorings.    Add  this  to  flour  mixture.    Roll  to  desired  thick- 
ness, cut  and  bake  at  350  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 


37 


MEXICAN  WEDDING  CAKES 

1  cup  butter  1    teaspoon  vanilla 
3/4  cup  powdered  sugar  1     cup  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  flour 

Mix  ingredients  and  roll  by  hand  into  srhall  balls  about  3/4 
inch  in  diameter.    Place  on  baking  sheet.    Bake  about  30  min- 
utes in  a  very  slow  oven,  325  degrees  F.    Roll  in  powdered 
sugar  while  hot  and  repeat  when  cool.    Makes  about  3  dozen. 

Eva  L.  Canady. 

LADYFINGERS 
1-1/4  sticks  butter  2    cups  plain  flour 

6    tablespoons  powdered  1     cup  pecans 

sugar  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.    Mix  flour  with  pecans 
and  add  to  first  mixture.    Add  vanilla.     If  necessary  add  1 
tablespoon  ice  water.    Shape  like  fingers  and  bake  in  slow 
oven,  300  degrees  F.,  45  minutes.    Roll  in  powdered  sugar 
while  hot. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Warren. 

APPLESAUCE  CAKE 
1-1/2  cups  thick  unsweetened         1     teaspoon  cinnamon 

applesauce  1     teaspoon  nutmeg 

l/2  cup  butter  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1     cup  raisins  2    teaspoons  baking  soda 

1     cup  chopped  nuts  2    cups  bread  flour 

Put  shortening,  sugar  and  raisins  into  hot  applesauce. 
When  cool  add  spices,  flour  and  soda.    Mix.    Then  add  nuts. 
Turn  into  greased  pan  and  bake  at  275  degrees  F.,  for  2  hours. 

Mrs.  Oliver  L.  Croom. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CAKE 
1  —  1  / 2  cups  of  self-rising  2    teaspoons  baking  powder 

flour  3     eggs,  beaten  separately 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together.    Add  well  beaten 
whites,  flour  and  3  tablespoons  of  cold  water.     Bake  in  2  layer 
cake  pans.    When  cold  split  with  sharp  knife  and  put  filling 
between  layers. 

FILLING  FOR  FRENCH  CREAM  CAKE 
1     pint  sweet  milk  2     eggs 

1     cup  sugar  1     stick  butter 

l/2  cup  flour  2    teaspoons  vanilla 

Bring  milk  to  boil.    Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  flour.     Pour 
this  thin  batter  into  hot  milk,  stirring  all  the  time.     Cook  until 
very  thick.    Remove  from  fire  and  add  1   stick  of  butter.    When 
cold  add  2  teaspoons  vanilla.    Spread  between  layers. 

Mrs.  John  Dyson. 


38 


ANGEL  FOOD  LAYER  CAKE 
1     cup  sifted  cake  flour  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

1-1/2  cups  sifted  granulated  1-1/4  teaspoons  cream 

sugar  of  tartar 

1-1/4  cups  (10  to  12)  egg  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

whites 
Sift  flour  once,  measure  and  add  l/2  cup  sugar  and  sift 
together  four  times.     Beat  egg  whites  and  salt  with  rotary 
beater.    When  foamy  add  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  beating 
until  eggs  are  stiff  enough  to  form  peaks  but  not  dry.    Add  re- 
maining sugar,  2  tablespoons  at  a  time,  beating  with  beater 
after  each  addition  until  all  sugar  is  well  blended.    Fold  in 
flavoring.    Sift  about  l/4  cup  flour  over  mixture,  fold  in 
lightly,  repeat  until  all  flour  is  used.     Cook  in  3  nine  inch 
ungreased  layer  pans  at  350  degrees  F.,  about  20  minutes. 
Remove  from  oven  and  invert  pans  for  about  1  hour  or  until 
cold. 

FILLING 
6    egg  yolks  1     pint  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1     cup  finely  chopped 
4    tablespoons  cornstarch  pecans 

or  flour  2    tablespoons  butter 

Beat  egg  yolks,  add  sugar,  cornstarch  and  milk.     Cook 

over  boiling  water  until  thick.    Add  butter,  vanilla  and  nuts. 

Let  stand  until  thoroughly  cool.    Then  spread  between  layers. 

Cover  top  and  sides  with  seven  minute  icing. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

WALDORF  ASTORIA  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
1/2  cup  butter  2    cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2    teaspoons  vanilla 
4    squares  chocolate  1-1/2  cups  milk 

2     eggs  1     cup  nuts 

2     cups  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  melted  chocolate,  well  beaten 
eggs,  vanilla  and  milk.    Add  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted 
together.     Dredge  nuts  in  flour  and  add.     Mix  well  and  pour 
into  loaf  pan.     Bake   1  hour  at  350  degrees.     Ice. 

ICING 
l/2  cup  butter  1     egg,  well  beaten 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1/2  cup  nuts 

2  squares  chocolate  l-l/2  cups  powdered 
1     teaspoon  lemon  juice  sugar 

Melt  butter  and  add  to  other  ingredients  and  beat  until 
smooth.    Spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  F.J.  Broadwell,  Jr. 


39 


SPICY  CHIFFON  CAKE 
(Large  cake,  16  to  20  servings) 
Measure  and  sift  together  into  mixing  bowl. 
1-1/2  cups  sugar  1    teaspoon  cinnamon 

3    teaspoons  baking  1/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

powder  1/2  teaspoon  allspice 

1  teaspoon  salt  1/2  teaspoon  cloves 

Make  a  well  and  add  in  order:     l/2  cup  Wesson  Oil,  7  un- 
beaten egg  yolks,  3/4  cup  cold  water.    Beat  with  spoon  until 
smooth.    Measure  into  large  mixing  bowl:     1     cup  egg  whites 
(7  or  8),  l/2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.    Whip  until  whites 
form  very  stiff  peaks.     Pour  egg  yolk  mixture  gradually  over 
whipped  egg  whites,  gently  folding  with  rubber  scraper  just 
until  blended.    Do  not  stir.    Pour  into  ungreased  10  inch  tube 
pan  immediately.    Bake  55  minutes  at  325  degrees  F.,  then 
10  to  15  minutes  at  350  degrees  F.    Immediately  turn  pan  up- 
side down,  placing  tube  part  over  neck  of  funnel  or  bottle,  or 
resting  edges  on  something.    Let  stand  free  of  table  until  cold. 
Loosen  from  sides  and  tube  with  spatula.    Turn  pan  over  and 
hit  edges  sharply  on  table  to  loosen. 

CREAMY  NUT  ICING 

Melt  in  saucepan  l/2  cup  shortening  (part  butter  adds 
flavor).    Remove  from  heat.    Blend  in  2-1/2  tablespoons 
flour,  l/4  teaspoon  salt.    Stir  in  slowly  l/2  cup  milk.    Bring 
to  boil,  stirring  constantly.    Boil  1  minute,    (if  mixture  cur- 
dles, do  not  be  alarmed.)    Stir  in  l/2  cup  brown  sugar  (packed 
in  cup).    Remove  from  heat.    Stir  in  2  cups  sifted  confectioners 
sugar.    Set  saucepan  in  cold  water.    Beat  until  consistency  to 
spread.    Stir  in  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla  and  l/2  cup  nuts,  coarsely 
chopped.    (Makes  icing  for  large  cake.)    Spread  on  above  cake. 

COCONUT  MIST  CAKE 
5     tablespoons  butter  1-1/4  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

3/4  cup  sugar  2    teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  egg  yolks,  well  beaten  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
l/4  cup  crushed  pineapple                 l/2  cup  moist  coconut 

(undrained)  2    egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolks  and  pine- 
apple.   Blend  thoroughly.    Sift  salt,  flour  and  baking  powder  3 
times.     Gradually  add  flour  to  first  mixture,  beating  until  well 
blended.    Add  flavoring  and  1 /2  of  coconut.    Beat  thoroughly. 
Then  fold  in  egg  whites  by  hand.     Pour  into  well  greased, 
lightly  floured  loaf  pan.    Sprinkle  remaining  coconut  on  top  of 
batter.     Bake  in  moderate  oven,  350  degrees  F.,  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  P.  B.  Heaton. 


40 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  cake  flour  (preferably  l/4  teaspoon  salt 
Swans  Down)  1-1/4  teaspoons  cream 

1-1/2  cups  sugar  of  tartar 

(granulated)  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

1-1/4  cups  egg  whites  1/4  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Sift  flour  and  measure,  add  l/2  cup  sugar  and  sift  together 
4  times.    Add  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat  with  rotary  beater  in 
large  mixing  bowl  until  foamy.    Add  cream  of  tartar  and  con- 
tinue beating  until  stiff  enough  for  peaks,  but  not  dry.    Add  re- 
maining 1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  at  a  time,  beating  until  all 
is  used.    Add  vanilla  and  almond.    Fold  flour  mixture  into  egg 
white  mixture  in  small  amounts  until  all  is  gently  folded  in. 
Pour  into  10  inch  tube  pan  ungreased  and  bake  in  oven,  375 
degrees  F.,  about  35  minutes.    When  done  invert  pan  on  rack 
until  cake  is  cool.    Gently  tap  the  pan  or  loosen  sides  with 
spatula.    Gently  remove  pan  from  cake. 

Mrs.  Geo.  McLelland. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
l/2  cup  water  2     eggs 

1-1/2  teaspoons  soda  2-1/2  cups  cake  flour 

l/2  cup  cocoa  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  cup  butter  3/4  cup  sour  milk 

1-3/4  cups  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  first  3  ingredients,  allow  to  stand  while  mixing  batter. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter  until  fluffy.    Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 
Sift  flour,  measure,  and  add  alternately  with  sour  milk.    Add 
the  first  mixture  thoroughly.    Bake  in  nine  inch  layer  cake 
pans,  30  minutes,  350  degrees  F. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 
3     cups  sugar  1     cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  syrup,  white  9    tablespoons  cocoa 

2  tablespoons  butter  1     tablespoon  vanilla 

Cook  until  small  amount  forms  soft  ball  in  cold  water.    Add 
butter  and  allow  to  cool.    Beat  with  right  consistency  to  spread 

Mrs,  A.  G.  Thornton. 

APPLESAUCE  CAKE 
2     cups  stewed  apples  1     teaspoon  allspice 

l/2  teaspoon  soda  1     teaspoon  cloves 

1     cup  butter  1     cup  raisins 

4  cups  flour  2    cups  sugar 
1     teaspoon  cinnamon  1     cup  nuts 

Cool  applesauce  and  beat  until  no  lumps  remain.    Add  re- 
maining ingredients  and  bake  in  layers  at  350  degrees  F.     Put 
together  with  coconut  filling. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 


41 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
BATTER 
1-1/2  cups  brown  sugar  1     teaspoon  soda 

2/3  cup  shortening  1     teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sour  milk  2-1/4  cups  flour 

2  eggs  l/4  teaspoon  salt 
1     teaspoon  vanilla 

CUSTARD 
1     cup  brown  sugar  1/2  cup  milk 

3  squares  chocolate,  cut  1     egg  yolk 
in  small  pieces 

To  make  the  custard,  heat  milk,  sugar  and  chocolate.    Add 
egg  yolks,  beaten.     Cook  the  mixture  until  smooth  and  thick 
and  set  aside  to  cool.     While  this  is  cooling  mix  the  batter  as 
usual.     Cream  the  shortening  and  sugar,  add  the  soda  to  the 
milk  and  add  it  to  the  shortening  and  sugar  mixture.    Add  the 
beaten  eggs,  then  the  baking  powder  and  salt  mixed  with  the 
flour  and  the  vanilla.     Mix  well  and  add  the  cold  custard.     Mix 
thoroughly.    Bake  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven,  375  degrees 
F.,  20  minutes.     Put  together  with  fudge  frosting  or  with 
chocolate  cream  filling. 

Mrs.  Alder  Warren. 

JAPANESE  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  2    heaping  teaspoons  baking 

2  cups  sugar  powder 

3  cups  flour  1     cup  sweet  milk 

4  eggs 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  three  times.     Cream  butter 
and  sugar  well,  beat  eggs  separately.    Add  yolks  to  butter  and 
sugar  mixture.    Add  flour  and  milk  alternately.    Fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.     Bake  in  three  large  layer  cake  pans.     Di- 
vide batter  in  half.    Add  1  package  seeded  raisins  (cut  with 
scissors  and  roll  into  flour)   1  heaping  tablespoon  ground 
cinnamon,   1  tablespoon  ground  cloves  and  1  teaspoon  allspice. 

FILLING 
2     cups  water  2     lemons,  grated  rind 

2-1/4  cups  sugar  and  juice 

1     coconut,  grated 

Boil  all  together  for  5  minutes,  thicken  with  3  heaping 
tablespoons  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve it.     Cook  until  clear  and  drops  in  lumps  from  spoon. 
If  not  thick  enough  add  a  little  more  cornstarch. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 


42 


PINEAPPLE  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 
(Caramel  mixture  for  bottom  of  cake  pan) 
l/4  cup  butter  1     cup  light  brown  sugar 

1     can  sliced  pineapple,  5    maraschino  cherries 

five  slices 

Spread  butter  in  bottom  of  pan  and  add  brown  sugar.     Drain 
pineapple  and  place  slices  on  top  of  sugar.     In  the  center  of 
each  pineapple  slice,  place  a  maraschino  cherry.     Cover  this 
with  batter  made  according  to  the  following  recipe  and  bake 
the  cake  in  a  moderate  oven  at  350  degrees  F.  for  45  min- 
utes.   Remove  cake  from  pan  immediately  after  taking  from 
oven. 

BATTER 
l/4  cup  butter  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

3/4  cup  sugar  1-l/Z  cups  pastry  flour, 

1     egg  sifted 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  2    teaspoons  baking  powder 

1/2  cup  milk 
Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  unbeaten  egg  and  the  flavor- 
ing and  beat  well.     Measure  the  dry  ingredients.    Sift  together 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.    Add  dry  ingredients  to  the 
creamed  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk. 

Mrs.  Wilbur t  Boone. 

UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 
1     can  pineapple  1     cup  brown  sugar 

1     cup  nuts  3    tablespoons  butter 

1/2  cup  cherries  2    tablespoons  water 

Spread  butter  in  bottom  of  frying  pan  and  add  brown  sugar. 
Drain  pineapple  and  place  slices  on  top  of  sugar  and  butter. 
Put  a  cherry  in  the  center  of  each  pineapple.    Sprinkle  nuts 
over  this.     Make  a  batter  of  the  following  ingredients  and  pour 
over  the  sugar  mixture.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  350  de- 
grees F.,  for  45  minutes. 

BATTER 
1/4  cup  butter  1-1 /2  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  sugar  3     eggs 

1/2  cup  buttermilk  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  1/2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1     teaspoon  vanilla 

Mrs.  wilbert  Boone. 

GRANDMOTHERS  POUND  CAKE 
1   cup  butter,   1-2/3   cups  sugar,  5  eggs,  2  cups  flour.     n'ork 
butter  until  creamy,  fold  in  flour  with  spoon.     If  desired  add   1 
tablespoon  caraway  seed  with  flour.     Bake  in  buttered  bread 
tin  about   l-l/4  hours   in  slow  oven,  300  degrees  F.     Excellent 
for  electric  beater. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 

43 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 
1     cup  butter  3     cups  flour 

4    eggs  2     cups  sugar 

1     cup  milk  2    teaspoons  baking 

1     pound  seeded  raisins,  powder 

chopped  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

1     teaspoon  cinnamon  1     teaspoon  cloves 

1     teaspoon  allspice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
after  each  addition.    Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  togeth- 
er and  add  alternately  with  milk.    Add  vanilla.     Divide  batter 
into  two  parts.    Bake  2  plain  layers.    Into  other  half  put  raisins 
and  spices.    Stir  well  and  bake  in  two  more  layers.     Put  to- 
gether with  the  following  filling. 

FILLING 

1  coconut  Rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons 

2  cups  sugar  2    tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  cup  boiling  water  1     can  pineapple 

Put  all  into  double  boiler  except  cornstarch.     Dissolve  it 
in  a  bit  of  cold  water  and  add  to  other  ingredients.    Cook  until 
it  drops  from  the  spoon.     Cool.     Put  between  layers  and  sprin- 
kle with  grated  coconut. 

Mrs.  Jack  "'Vest. 

ORANGE  CAKE 
3/4  cup  butter  1     orange,  grated  rind  and 

1-1/2  cups  brown  sugar  juice 

3/4  cup  sour  milk  1     cup  raisins 

2  eggs  2    cups  flour 
l/4  teaspoon  salt  1     teaspoon  soda 

Make  into  batter  and  bake  in  two  layers. 
FILLING 
2     cups  sugar  1     egg,  well  beaten 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1     coconut,  grated 

2  lemons 

Put  sugar  and  lemon  juice  on  slow  fire.    Stir  in  egg  when 
sugar  has  dissolved.     Cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  stir 
in  coconut  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.    Spread  between 
layers.     Cover  top  and  sides  with  uncooked  icing. 

Mrs.  Jack  West. 

BUTTERMILK  CAKE 
2     cups  sugar  3     cups  flour  (all-purpose) 

1     cup  buttermilk  1/4  teaspoon  soda 

1     cup  butter  Flavoring  to  taste 

6    whole  eggs 

Bake  in  loaf  pan  for   1  hour. 

Mrs.  Colin  Lamb. 


44 


UNCOOKED  FRUIT  CAKE 
(5  pounds) 
cup  orange  peel  1     cup  butter 

cup  lemon  peel  1     cup  honey 

cup  citron  2    teaspoons  cinnamon 

cup  pineapple  l/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

cup  cherries  1     teaspoon  each  of  mace  or 

cup  dates  other  desired  spices 

cup  dark  raisins  2    teaspoons  vanilla 

cup  white  raisins  1    teaspoon  lemon 

cup  walnuts  1    pound  graham  crackers 

cup  pecans  Salt  to  taste 

Cream  butter  and  honey,  add  flavoring  and  pour  over  the 
ruit.    Let  stand  2  hours.    Add  spices  and  salt  to  rolled  crack- 
:rs,  then  mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly.    Pack  in  a  wax  paper 
ined  loaf  pan  and  set  in  a  cool  place  or  refrigerator.    It  keeps 
well. 

Mrs.  Daisy  P.  Carter. 

SILKEN  GOLu  CAKE 
1/2  cup  butter  1-1/4  cups  milk 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  6    egg  yolks 

1     teaspoon  vanilla  2-3/4  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

1     cup  sugar  2-3/4  teaspoons  baking 

3/4  cup  sugar  powder 

Cream  together  butter,  salt  and  flavoring.    Gradually  add 

1  cup  sugar,  beating  constantly.    Cream  mixture  until  it  is 
light  and  fluffy.     Combine  3/4  cup  sugar  and  milk.    Stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.    Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  col- 
ored.   Add  to  cream  mixture.    Beat  well.    Sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  together  three  times.    Gradually  add  to  creamed  mix- 
ture, alternately  with  milk  and  sugar  mixture,  beating  well 
after  each  addition.     Pour  into  2  well  greased  nine  inch  layer 
pans.    Bake  in  moderate  oven,  350  degrees  F.,  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  P.  B.  Heaton. 

HOT  MILK  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  4    eggs 

1     teaspoon  vanilla  1     teaspoon  baking  powder 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  1     stick  butter 

1     cup  milk  2     cups  flour 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  gradually.    Sift  flour  before  measur- 
ing.   Add  baking  powder  and  salt.    Bring  butter  and  milk  to  a 
boil.    Add  to  batter.    Add  vanilla.     Pour  into  8  inch  cake  pans. 
Take  3  50  degrees  F.,  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Gordon  Love. 


45 


POUND  CAKE 
(Cheap  but  very  good) 
1     cup  butter  or  Crisco  2-1/2  teaspoons  baking 

1-1/2  cups  sugar  powder 

4    eggs  1    teaspoon  salt 

3/4  cup  milk  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

3     cups  sifted  cake  l/4  teaspoon  mace  or 

flour  1     teaspoon  lemon 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  cream- 1 
ing.    Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  constantly  until  light  and 
fluffy.    Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  mace  together.    Add 
vanilla.    Bake  in  a  greased  tube  pan  in  moderate  oven,  350 
degrees  F.,   1  hour. 

Mrs.  B.  B.  Osborne. 

BRIDES  CAKE 
1     cup  butter  3    teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  cups  sugar  1     cup  cornstarch 

1  cup  milk  3     cups  flour 
12  eggs 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.    Sift  baking  powder,  corn- 
starch, and  flour,  add  alternately  with  milk.    Beat  well.    Last 
of  all  fold  in  well  beaten  egg  whites.     Pour  into  well  greased 
pan  lined  with  paper.    Bake  in  slow  oven,  300  to  325  degrees 
F.,  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

POUND  CAKE 
10     eggs  2    cups  sugar 

4  cups  flour  1     pound  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  beat 
in  well.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Add  with  flour 
small  amounts  at  a  time.    When  all  ingredients  are  mixed  add 

2  teaspoons  of  flavoring.    Beat  with  hand  15  minutes.     Bake  at 
325  degrees  F.,   1-1/4  hours. 

Mrs.  John  Dysov. 

CARAMEL  ICING 
2     cups  brown  sugar  4    tablespoons  butter 

1     cup  water  4    tablespoons  cream 

4    tablespoons  flour  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  sugar  and  water  to  hard  ball  stage,  250  degrees  F. 
Mix  remaining  ingredients  in  bowl,  reserving  2  tablespoons 
cream.     Pour  the  hot  sirup  over  the  mixed  ingredients  and  stir 
until  well  blended.     Allow  to  cool  to  room  temperature.     Beat 
until  icing  starts  to  thicken  and  loses  its   shiny  appearance. 
Spread  over  cake  quickly.     Thin  with  reserved  cream  if 
necessary. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Stott. 

46 


ICING 
(That  will  not  crack) 
2    cups  sugar  l/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  water  or   1  tablespoon  vinegar 

3     egg  whites 
Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.    Beat  egg 
whites  until  dry.    Add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  for  each  egg 
white  and  beat  well.    Pour  hot  syrup  over  eggs,  beating  con- 
stantly.    Put  bowl  containing  this  mixture  into  a  container  of 
boiling  water.    Keep  stirred  (fold  over)  until  it  begins  to  stick 
to  bottom  of  bowl  and  in  tasting  it  does  not  stick  to  tongue. 
Flavor  to  taste  and  spread  while  warm.    Any  left  over  may 
be  kept  for  several  weeks  in  jar  in  refrigerator.    When  ready 
to  use  reheat,  adding  a  few  drops  of  water.    Spread. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

FUDGE  FROSTING 

2  cups  sugar  2/3  cup  milk 

2     ounces  unsweetened  2    tablespoons  butter 

chocolate  (about  1/2  cup  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

cocoa) 
2    tablespoons  light  corn  syrup 

Put  the  sugar,  chocolate,  corn  syrup  and  milk  in  a  deep 
boiler.    Stir  over  low  heat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and 
chocolate  melted.    Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  cook,  stirring 
occasionally  until  the  mixture  will  form  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water.    Remove  from  heat,  add  butter.    Cool  until  the  boiler 
can  be  held  in  palm  of  hand.    Beat  well  until  thick  and  spread. 
Adaquate  for  3  layer  cake. 

Mrs.  David  Herring. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 
l/2  cup  cocoa  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  milk  Small  piece  of  butter 

2    cups  sugar 

Mix  cocoa  and  sugar.    Add  milk  and  let  boil  2-1/2  minutes 
from  time  you  see  it  first  start  to  boil.    Then  remove  from 
heat.    Add  butter  and  flavoring.    Beat  until  thick  enough  to 
spread  evenly  on  cake. 

Eva  L.  Canady. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 

1  box  powdered  sugar  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter  2     squares  of  chocolate 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  in  saucepan  over  hot  water.    Add 
sugar  and  vanilla.     Mix  well  and  if  not  as  thin  as  you  like  add 
a  little  cream.    Spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Wilbert  Boone. 


47 


FUDGE  FROSTING 
2     cups  sugar  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  milk  6    marshmallows  or 

1-1/2  tablespoons  butter  2    heaping  tablespoons 

2  squares  chocolate  marshmallow  whip 
1     tablespoon  corn  syrup 

Put  first  four  ingredients  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  to  soft 
ball  stage,  234  degrees  F.  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  the 
marshmallows  just  until  they  dissolve.  Cool  and  add  vanilla 
and  beat  until  right  consistency  to  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Alden  Warren. 

PINEAPPLE  PAR  FAIT  FROSTING 
In  a  double  boiler  put  2  unbeaten  egg  whites,   1-1/2  cups 
sugar,  5  tablespoons  canned  pineapple  juice,   1/8  teaspoon 
salt,   1/8  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.     Mix  well.     Then  place 
over  rapidly  boiling  water,  beat  constantly  with  rotary  egg 
beater  until  mixture  holds  a  peak.    Time  about  7  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  1/3  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind. 
Beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake.     I  use  my  electric 
mixer  for  this. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

NEVER   FAIL  ICING 

1  cup  sugar  1     tablespoon  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  water  1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2  egg  whites  Pinch  of  salt 

Put  all  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler,  have  water  boil- 
ing in  lower  part.     Beat  with  egg  beater  constantly  for  seven 
minutes.    Remove  from  fire  and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  .Sr. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

3  cups  sugar  4    tablespoons  chocolate 

1  cup  water  Pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 

Mix  and  cook  until  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.     Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  until  very  stiff.     Pour 
chocolate  mixture  over  eggs,  beating  until  creamy.    Spread 
on  cake. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

BOILED  ICING 

2  cups  sugar  1     cup  hot  water 
1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar          2     egg  whites 

Mix  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  hot  water  and  cook  until  it 
spins  a  thread.     Pour  over  well  beaten  egg  whites,  beating 
constantly  until  consistency  to  spread. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 


48 


CREAMY  NUT  ICING 
Melt  in  pan,  1/2  cup  shortening,  butter  is  best.    Remove 
from  heat.    Blend  in  2-1/2  tablespoons  flour,   1/4  teaspoon 
salt.    Stir  in  slowly,   1  /Z  cup  milk.    Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring 
constantly.    Boil  1  minute.    (If  mixture  curdles  icing  will  not 
be  affected.)    Stir  on  1/2  cup  brown  sugar,  packed  in  cup.    Re- 
move from  heat.    Stir  in  2  cups  sifted  confectioners  sugar. 
Beat  until  consistency  to  spread.    Stir  in  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  1/2  cup  coarsely  chopped  nuts. 

Mrs.  Sudie  Rich, 
Garland,  North  Carolina. 


49 


50 


KELLY  AND  BEST 

Dealers  In 

General  Merchandise 

Clinton 

North  Carolina 

BOOSTERS 

TOWN  SERVICE  STATION 

Atlantic  Gas  And  Oil 

Washing  And  Greasing 

Garland 

North  Carolina 

N.  J.  CARTER 

Merchandise  Hardware 

Groceries  -  Feed 

Garland 

North  Carolina 

GARLAND  GARAGE 

General  Repair 

Phone  431 

Garland 

North  Carolina 

We  Wish  To 

Thank  The  Advertisers 

For  Helping  Make  This 

Book  Possible 

VEGETABLES     AND     SALADS 

PINEAPPLE  RINGS 
6    slices  of  pineapple  6    marshmallows 

1-3/4  cups  of  cooked  l/Z  cup  sweet  milk 

sweet  potatoes  1/2  cup  raisins 

l/2  cup  sugar  1     teaspoon  vanilla 

l/4  stick  butter 

Cream  potatoes  with  butter,  sugar  and  milk.    Add  flavoring 
and  raisins.     Place  pineapple  on  baking  pan  and  put  dips  of 
potato  mix  on  top  of  each  slice.    Top  each  with  marshmallow. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  until  brown.    Serve  hot  with  meat. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 
6    tomatoes  1/2  cup  chopped  meat 

l/2  cup  cooked  rice  1/2  cup  meat  broth 

1     tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  tomatoes.  Cut  slice  from  top  of  each.  Hollow  out 
tomato,  leaving  a  thick  shell.  Combine  rice,  meat  and  broth. 
Season  to  taste.  Fill  tomatoes  with  rice  mixture.  Place  in 
well  oiled  casserole.  Place  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  tomato. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven,  about  375  degrees  F.,  until  tender. 
If  desired,  buttered  bread  crumbs  or  chopped  green  pepper 
may  be  substituted  for  the  rice.    Makes  6  servings. 

Mrs.  Coleman  Carter. 

CORN  PUDDING 
1     pint  of  corn  1     tablespoon  flour  (or 

1     egg  cornstarch) 

l/2  cup  sugar  1     tablespoon  butter 

1    teaspoon  salt  1     cup  sweet  milk 

Pepper  to  taste  A  biscuit  or  two  soaked  in 

the  milk 
Beat  egg,  add  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  flour  or  cornstarch  and 
mix  well.    Add  melted  butter,  milk  soaked  biscuits  and  corn. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  a 
knife  inserted  in  the  pudding  comes  out  clean. 

Mrs.  Coleman  Carter. 

BAKED  BEANS 
1  can  baked  beans  in  casserole.     In  4  tablespoons  butter 
brown  1   green  pepper,   l/2  hot  pepper  (or  less),  2  small  onions, 
1/2  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar.    Add  a  few  toma- 
toes.    Cover  beans  with  mixture  and  bake  slowly  2  or  3  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  K.  West. 


53 


HARVARD  BEETS 
3     cups  cooked  diced  beets  6    tab.espocns  sugar 

3     tablespoons  cornstarch  l/Z  cup  vinegar 

l/4  cup  water  3     tablespoons  melted  butter 

Combine  sugar,  cornstarch,  butter,  water  and  vinegar. 
Cook  over  hot  water  until  smooth  and  thick.    Season  to  taste. 
Add  beets.    Heat  thoroughly.    Serve  at  once.    Serves  6. 

Mrs.  Milton  Carter. 

BAKED  BANANAS 
6    ripe  bananas  Bread  crumbs 

Sugar  Butter 

1  egg,  well  beaten 

Peel  and  quarter  bananas,  dip  in  well  beaten  egg  and  roll 
in  bread  crumbs.  Place  on  flat  buttered  pan.  Then  sprinkle 
the  tops  with  sugar  and  place  dabs  of  butter  on  each  banana. 
Place  in  oven  and  bake,  350  degrees  F.,  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 

FRIED  CORN  CAKES 
1-1/2  cups  sifted  corn  meal  1     egg 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  Sweet  milk 

Measure  meal  and  salt.    Break  egg  into  mixture.    Mix  to 
desired  consistency  with  sweet  milk  or  evaporated  milk  with 
equal  part  of  water.     Drop  with  spoon  into  hot  deep  fat.    Turn 
until  a  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  O.  B.  Maxwell. 

STUFFED  POTATOES 
Prepare  baked  potatoes.     Cut  a  slice  from  the  surface  of 
each.    Scoop  out  contents.     Mash.    Season  with  cream,  salt 
and  pepper.    Whip  until  light  and  fluffy.     Pile  lightly  into 
potato  shells.    Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  grated  cheese.    Bake 
in  moderate  oven,  375  degrees  F.,  until  lightly  browned. 
Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Milton  Carter. 

BAKED  BEANS 

2  cans  pork  and  beans  2    tablespoons  molasses 
2    tablespoons  brown  sugar  or  syrup 

1     teaspoon  mustard  2    tablespoons  catsup 

Mix  all  ingredients.     Put  in  a  covered  dish.     Bake  in  slow 
oven  about  an  hour,  If  beans  cook  out  too  dry  add  little  hot 
water  and  stir. 

Mrs.  A     W.  Johnson. 


54 


CAULIFLOWER 
One  medium  sized  head.    Separate  into  flowerets.    Soak  30 
minutes  in  cold  water.    Rinse.    Cook  in  water  salted  to  taste 
until  tender  8  to  10  minutes,  drain.     Pour  over  with  sauce. 
Serve. 

WHITE  SAUCE 
2    tablespoons  butter  1     cup  milk 

2    tablespoons  flour  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 
Melt  butter  in  small  saucepan.    Add  flour  mixed  with 
seasoning.    Stir  until  well  blended.    Pour  in  milk  gradually 
while  stirring  constantly.    Heat  milk  before  adding  to  keep 
sauce  smooth.    Cook  5  minutes.    If  sauce  has  become  too 
thick,  thin  with  little  extra  milk. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Howard. 

ASHEVILLE  SALAD 

1  cup  tomato  soup  1    tablespoon  onion,  finely 

2  packages  cream  cheese  chopped 

2    tablespoons  gelatin  2    tablespoons  green  pepper, 

1  cup  mayonnaise  finely  chopped 

2  cups  celery,  finely  l/2  cup  nuts,  finely 
chopped  chopped 

Heat  soup  to  boiling  point  and  dissolve  cheese  in  it.  Add 
gelatin  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water.  Cool  mixture. 
Then  add  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  into  mold.  Serve  on 
lettuce. 

Mrs.  Abel  McRae  Warren. 

PINEAPPLE,  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  package  lemon  gelatin  l/2  cup  celery,  cut  fine 
Juice  from  large  can                            2/3  cup  walnut  meats,  cut 

crushed  pineapple  and  fine 

crushed  pineapple  l/2  pint  whipping  cream 

2  packages  cream  cheese,  l/8  teaspoon  salt 
mashed  with 

1  small  can  pimientoes 

Mix  gelatin  with  pineapple  juice  which  has  been  boiled. 
When  it  begins  to  jell,  add  other  ingredients  in  order  given. 
Pour  into  mold  and  chill  until  set.    Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 

Mrs.  R.  G.  Dawson. 

CARROT  SALAD 

2  carrots,  grated  2    tablespoons  sugar 
1     apple,  grated  Pinch  of  salt 

1/2  cup  raisins  2    tablespoons  mayonnaise 


Mix  and  serve  on  lettuce, 


Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 
55 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

1  package  cranberries,  1    package  strawberry  or 
ground  raw  cherry  jello 

2  oranges,  ground  peeling  1     cup  water  to  dissolve 
and  all  except  seeds  jello 

1     cup  sugar  1     cup  crushed  pineapple 

l/2  cup  to  1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

Dissolve  jello  in  hot  water  and  add  the  other  ingredients 
Mix  well  and  pour  into  individual  molds  or  into  oblong  dish. 
Chill  thoroughly.    Cut  into  squares  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce 
with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Lowdermilk. 

GOLDEN  GLOW  SALAD 
1     package  orange  jello  1     cup  grated  carrots 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Drain  pineapple.    Heat  the  juice  and  use  as  part  of  the 
liquid  required  for  jello.    When  jello  begins  to  harden,  add 
grated  carrots  and  pineapple.    Place  in  refrigerator,  let 
stand  until  firm.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  your  favorite  salad 
dressing. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

2  MINUTE  SALAD  DRESSING 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  1    tablespoon  sugar 
l/4  cup  sweet  or  sour  cream         l/2  teaspoon  salt 

(or  canned  milk)  Black  pepper 

2  tablespoons  prepared  mustard 

Shake  well.    Blend  with  potato  salad  just  before  serving. 
Also  can  be  used  on  lettuce  or  for  cabbage  slaw. 

Mrs.  David  Herring. 

CRANBERRY  SALAD 
1     package  fresh  berries  3    cups  orange  juice 

(4  cups) 

Boil  together  until  berries  are  tender.    Strain  through 
sifter.    Add  2  cups  sugar  to  juice.    Let  boil.    Add  2  envelopes 
Knox  Gelatine  dissolved  into  1/2  cup  cold  water.    Pour  into 
juice  while  hot.    Cool.    Add:     1  cup  crushed  pineapple,  1  cup 
nuts,  finely  chopped. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Thornton. 

BLACK  EYED  SUSIE  SALAD 
Place  slices  of  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaf,  place  slices  of 
peaches  on  top  of  pineapple  as  petals.    Stuff  a  prune  with  nuts 
and  cheese  mixed  with  mayonnaise  and  place  in  the  center. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 


56 


CARROT  SALAD 
2    cups  hot  water  1     teaspoon  salt 

2    packages  lemon  jello  2    tablespoons  vinegar 

2    cups  grated  carrots  1     teaspoon  black  pepper 

2     cups  crushed  pineapple 

Dissolve  jello  in  hot  water.    When  it  begins  to  get  thick, 
add  rest  of  ingredients.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.   John  Dysov. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 
1     cake  plain  cream  cheese  2    cups  whipped  cream 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise  Sugar  and  salt  to  taste 

1     large  can  fruit  cocktail 
(drained) 
Can  be  used  with  other  fruits,  marshmallows  and  pineapple, 
peaches,  etc. 

Annie  L.  Bullard. 

CABBAGE  AND  CARROT  SALAD 
Use  equal  parts  of  grated  carrots  and  finely  shredded 
cabbage.     Mix  the  carrots  and  cabbage  together  with  salad 
dressing  until  well  blended.    Add  ground  peanuts  if  desired. 
Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 

Mary  Wanen. 


57 


58 


60 


JELLIES     AND     PICKLES 

SWEET  PICKLES 
2    cups  lime  8    pounds  cucumbers 

2    gallons  water  8    cups  sugar 

2    tablespoons  salt  2    quarts  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  spice  2    tablespoons  cloves 
1     tablespoon  celery  seed 

Dissolve  lime  in  water  and  put  in  cucumbers  in  wheels  l/2 
inch  thick.    Let  soak  24  hours.    Remove  from  water.    Wash 
well  in  3  or  4  waters.    Make  pickling  solution  of  sugar,  salt 
and  vinegar.    Tie  spices  up  in  bag.    Boil  until  sugar  is  melted 
and  pour  over  cucumbers  that  have  been  washed  and  drained. 
Let  soak  3  hours  then  boil  for  30  minutes.    Put  in  jars  and 
seal.    Very  good. 

Mrs.  Daniel  Boone. 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLES 
Prepare  rind  and  soak  1   gallon  rind  overnight  in  water  to 
cover  with  1  tablespoon  Lilly's  lime.    Rinse  several  times  in 
cold  water,  then  put  rind  on  stove  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover.    Boil  a  few  minutes  and  pour  off.    Cover  again  with 
cold  water.    Boil  hard.    Add  2  tablespoons  powdered  ginger 
in  thin  cloth.    Boil  30  minutes.    Pour  off.    Cover  rind  with 
cold  water  with  ice  in  it.    Let  soak  while  you  make  syrup. 
1     quart  vinegar  1    tablespoon  whole  cloves 

3/4  cup  cold  water  7    pounds  of  sugar 

3  sticks  of  cinnamon 

When  it  begins  to  boil  add  rind  and  boil  until  transparent. 
From  1-1/4  to  2  hours.    Seal  in  jars. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Ruark. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 
7    pounds  sliced  tomatoes  3    pints  vinegar 

3     cups  lime  5    pounds  sugar 

Pickling  spice 
Soak  24  to  36  hours  in  lime  water  (3  cups  lime  to  2  gallons 
water).    Take  out  of  lime  water  and  soak  for  4  hours  in  clear 
water,  changing  every  hour.    Make  syrup  of: 
3     pints  of  vinegar  Pickling  spices  (in  bag) 

5    pounds  sugar 

Bring  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  to  a  boil  and  pour  over 
drained  tomates.    Let  stand  overnight.    Next  morning  simmer 
1-1/2  hours.    Can  and  seal  air  tight. 

Mrs.  D.  C.  Boone. 


61 


SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 
Slice  7  pounds  cucumbers.    Soak  12  to  14  hours  in  strong 
lime  water.    Wash  and  soak  4  hours  in  salt  water.    Soak  2 
hours  in  clear  water.     Bring  to  boil  in  alum  water  (l/2  box 
alum).     Drain.     Pour  boiling  water  over  cucumbers.    Boil  30 
minutes  in  2  quarts  vinegar  (dilute,  using  l/3  water,  2/3 
vinegar),  4  pounds  sugar,  l/2  box  pickling  spice  (tie  in  small 
bag).    Seal. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Ghorutou. 

PEAR  RELISH 
10  cup  pear  pulp  5    big  onions 

3    cups  sugar  6    bell  peppers 

3    cups  vinegar  1     or  2  hot  peppers 

1    tablespoon  salt 

Grind  pears  in  food  chopper.    Let  juice  from  pear  drip  into 
pan  and  save  it.    Grind  other  ingredients  and  mix  with  pears, 
adding  juice  and  other  ingredients.    Let  scald  and  come  to 
boil  for  a  few  minutes.    Then  put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Shaw. 

PEPPER  HASH 
24  ripe  tomatoes  12  small  onions 

24  green  peppers 

Grind  separately  and  squeeze  all  juice  out.  Make  a  syrup 
of  6  cups  sugar,  6  cups  vinegar  and  2  tablespoons  salt.  Cook 
30  to  40  minutes.    Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 
3     pounds  sugar  1     pint  vinegar 

6    pounds  fruit 

Mix  sugar  and  vinegar  together.  Boil  until  a  little  thick. 
Drop  in  peaches.  When  heated  through  put  in  jars  and  put  a 
few  cloves  on  top  of  each  jar  and  seal. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Blackman. 


62 


64 


CANDIES 

DIVINITY  FUDGE 
2- 1/3  cups  granulated  sugar  2    egg  whites 

2/3  cup  white  corn  syrup  1     cup  chopped  nuts 

l/2  cup  water  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Combine  sugar,  syrup,  water  and  salt  in  saucepan.    Place 
over  low  heat  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.    Continue  cook- 
ing at  higher  heat  until  a  little  of  the  mixture  dropped  in  cold 
water  forms  a  hard  ball.    Remove  the  mixture  from  the  heat 
and  pour  over  egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten  stiff.    Pour 
mixture  slowly,  stirring  constantly  to  avoid  lumping.    Con- 
tinue stirring  until  mixture  loses  its  gloss.    Add  nuts  and 
vanilla  and  pour  into  greased  pan  or  on  waxed  paper.    Makes 
about  1-1/2  pounds. 

Mrs.  John  A.  McDaniel. 

FUDGE 
3     squares  (3  ounces)  3    tablespoons  butter 

unsweetened  chocolate  2    tablespoons  corn  syrup 

3    cups  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  Carnation  Milk,  undiluted 

Cut  chocolate  over  sugar  in  2  quart  pan.    Add  corn  syrup 
and  milk.    Place  over  medium  heat.    Stir  until  sugar  dissol- 
ves.   Bring  to  boiling.     Cover  and  cook  2  minutes.    Uncover 
and  cook,  stirring  occasionally  until  soft  ball  forms  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.    Remove  from  heat,  add  butter.    Let 
cool  without  stirring  until  pan  is  cool  enough  to  hold  on  palm 
of  hand.    Add  vanilla,  beat  until  thick  and  no  longer  glossy. 
Spread  in  buttered  pan.     Cool.    Cut  in  thin  squares. 

BUTTER  MINTS 

2  cups  sugar  6    to  8  drops  of  peppermint 
3/4  cup  water  8    to  10  drops  of  coloring 
1/4  cup  butter 

Cook  sugar,  water  and  butter  without  stirring  to  268  de- 
grees F.  to  270  degrees  F.    Remove  from  fire  and  pour  into 
greased  pan.    Add  peppermint  and  coloring  by  dropping  on  top 
of  mixture.    When  cool  enough  to  pull,  remove  from  pan  and 
pull  until  light  in  color  and  firm.    Roll  into  a  thin  rope.     Cut 
in  pieces  and  store  in  a  tin  box  to  cream. 

Mrs.  Abel  McRae  Warren. 


65 


66 


68 


HINTS 

HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 
To  Clean  Paint  Brushes:     Put  brush  in  container  with 
water  to  cover  bristles  and  add  small  amount  of  lye.    Boil. 
Don't  let  the  water  come  up  to  handle.       ' 

Cleaning  Silverware:     Put  silverware  in  an  aluminum  pan 
in  a  solution  of  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  to  each  quart 
of  boiling  water.    Leave  the  silverware  in  the  solution  for  a 
few  minutes  then  wash  in  hot  soap  suds.    Rinse  and  dry.    This 
will  not  harm  silverware. 

To  Remove  Tea  And  Coffee  Stains:     Dip  the  stained  part  in 
water  containing  a  little  kerosene.    Then  wash  the  article 
with  soap  and  hot  water. 

Mold  will  not  form  on  the  tops  of  jelly  and  preserve  jars  if 
a  bowl  of  lime  is  placed  in  the  closet  where  these  are  stored. 

Colored  fabric  will  not  fade  or  run  if  a  teaspoonful  of 
Epsom  salts  is  added  for  each  gallon  of  water  used  in  washing. 

Bananas  for  salads  will  keep  their  natural  color  if  sprin-  . 
kled  with  powdered  sugar  or  lemon  juice. 

To  Prevent  Milk  From  Souring:    By  adding  a  tiny  pinch  of 
salt  to  milk  when  fresh  it  will  keep  much  longer. 

To  Remove  Greese,  Soot  And  Ink  From  Carpets:     Grease 
spots  which  occasionally  get  on  carpets  about  the  table  may 
sometimes  be  removed  by  sponging  off  the  spot  with  one  part 
salt  to  four  parts  alcohol.    Rub  the  spot  hard.    For  ink  stains 
on  the  carpet,  cover  the  spot  at  once  with  salt,  remove  it  when 
it  turns  black  and  apply  another  layer.    Repeat  until  the  salt 
no  longer  changes  color. 

When  painting  chairs  or  table,  if  you  will  drive  a  small 
nail  into  the  bottom  of  the  legs  you  can  paint  the  legs  without 
having  them  stick  to  the  paper. 

When  Ripping  A  Long  Seam:     Fasten  one  end  under  pressure 
foot  of  your  sewing  machine.    Better  than  the  old  pin-to-the- 
knee  technique  when  cutting  threads  with  a  razor  blade. 

No  Bed  Table  For  Your  Patient:     Your  sewing  machine  will 
extend  its  drop  leaf  across  the  bed,  if  you  wheel  it  into  postion. 


69 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 
Attach  A  3  Pronged  Towel  Rack  to  the  broad  end  of  your 
ironing  board.    It  will  hold  small  pieces  and  save  steps. 

Prongs  fold  along  end  of  board  when  you  put  it  away. 

Make  A  Record  of  articles  you  borrow,  and  those  you  lend, 
on  a  special  calendar.    Helps  you  keep  track  of  things  that  fail 
to  come  home  promptly,  and  reminds  you  to  return  or  pay 
back. 

Glue  Cork  Pieces  from  bottle  caps  to  bottoms  of  boxes, 
vases,  furniture,  to  keep  them  from  scratching  polished  sur- 
faces. 

An  Aluminum  Clothes  Sprinkler  on  the  bottle  of  furniture 
polish  will  spread  polish  evenly  on  dust  mop  or  dust  cloth. 

Sew  On  Buttons  with  elasticized  thread  (the  kind  used  for 
shirring).    Keeps  buttons  from  tearing  out  the  cloth. 

Bird  Cage  Hooks,  screwed  to  the  wall  of  your  small  closet, 
will  create  extra  hanging  space.    A  dozen  or  more  hangers 
can  be  hung  from  one  hook.    Hooks  will  fold  flat  against  wall 
when  not  in  use. 

Make  Daughter  A  Holder  for  barrettes  and  hair  bows  by 
tacking  a  short  piece  of  white  elastic  flat  across  the  inside  of 
her  closet  door.    Hair  fixings  snap  or  clip  right  on,  and  are 
easy  to  find.    This  type  hanger  keeps  her  hair  ribbons  from 
getting  wrinkled,  too. 

When  Hard  Boiling  Eggs  for  later  use,  add  a  little  food 
coloring  to  the  water.     You  can  store  with  uncooked  eggs  in 
the  refrigerator,  the  tint  tells  the  difference. 

The  Curtain  Cleaning  Attachment  on  your  vacuum  cleaner 
makes  a  good  catcher  for  mosquitoes,  flies,  and  spiders 
roosting  on  your  walls. 

Before  Laundering  Curtains,  baste  two  lines  on  your  iron- 
ing board  cover  to  mark  curtain's  width.    When  ironing,  the 
basted  lines  will  help  you  iron  curtain  edges  straight. 

Use  A  Pipe  Cleaner  to  hold  you  knitting  stitches  in  place 
when  you  have  to  remove  knitting  needles.    Ends  can  be  bent 
back,  so  stitches  won't  slip  off. 


70 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 
To  Put  New  Hooks  on  a  bamboo  rake,  soak  worn  ends  in 
hot  water  until  pliable.    Turn  ends  down,  let  dry. 

A  Pair  Of  Tweezers  makes  a  handy  thread  puller  when 
you're  putting  the  finishing  touches  to  a  new  garment. 

When  Painting  Indoors  slip  a  pair  of  old  socks  over  your 
shoes.    If  paint  drops  on  flour,  just  "skate"  it  up.    Saves 
stooping. 

Put  A  Clock's  Face,  in  icing,  on  top  of  your  child's  birth- 
day cake,  with  the  hour  hand  pointing  his  age.    Makes  an 
amusing  substitute  for  candles.     Cute  with  candles,  too. 

Build  Canned  Goods  Shelves  in  "stairsteps",  each  shelf 
wide  enough  for  only  one  jar.    Top  portions  of  all  the  jars 
will  be  seen  at  a  glance,  saves  hunting. 

A  Large  Scrap  Book  makes  a  handy  file  for  your  patterns. 
Paste  pages  together  in  pairs,  leaving  tops  open,  to  form 
envelopes.     Paste  picture  of  pattern  on  the  scrapbook  envelope 
in  which  it  has  been  filed. 

Use  Hose  Supporters  to  fasten  baby's  blanket  at  corners  of 
bed.    Sew  supporters  to  tape,  tie  tape  to  bed  corners.    Support- 
ers will  hold  covering  firmly,  baby  can't  kick  loose. 

Mend  A  Ripped-Out  Hem  in  a  hurry,  with  Scotch  tape. 
Much  neater  than  pinning.     Tape  will  hold  on  most  fabrics 
for  at  least  a  day. 

Don't  Scratch  Your  Table  with  candlesticks  or  bookends. 
Cut  pieces  of  moleskin  (from  dime  store)  to  fit  bottom  of 
these  objects.    One  side  of  the  material  is  adhesive,  makes 
the  job  easy. 

Turn  A  Colander  upside  down  over  frying  meat  or  fish. 
The  small  holes  allow  steam  to  escape,  but  grease  can't 
spatter  about. 

Paint  A  Gay  Picture  with  that  red  medicine  when  applying 
it  to  Sister's  scratched  knee.    Tears  stop  flowing  as  a  kitten 
or  dog  takes  shape,  and  the  wound  becomes  something  to 
show  off. 


71 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 
Make  Sonny  Some  Mittens  out  of  that  little,  worn-out 
sweater.     Put  his  hand  into  the  wrist-end  of  the  sleeve,  with 
the  little  finger  along  the  seam  (so  sweater  cuff  becomes 
mitten  cuff).    Mark  shape  of  hand,  generously,  with  chalk. 
Baste  around  chalk  line.    Machine-stitch  1/4  inch  outside 
basting  using  small  stitch.     Machine-stitch  again,  just  inside 
first  stitching.    Cut  out  mitten  close  to  outside  stitching.    Turn 
and  stitch  to  a  1/8  inch  French  seam.     If  sweater  is  light- 
weight, make  outing  flannel  lining. 

Make  A  Tiny  Embroidery  Hoop  for  your  dainty  work,  with 
a  metal  fruit-jar  ring.    A  rubber  band  will  hold  cloth  over  the 
ring- 
Initial  Your  Child's  Rubbers  on  the  toes  with  oil  paint,  will 
avoid  much  searching,  and  may  prevent  loss  in  that  after- 
school  shuffle. 

Garnish  Lettuce  Leaves  by  twirling  their  edges  in  paprika 
which  you've  sifted  on  a  waxed  paper.    Or  float  a  sprinkling 
of  paprika  on  water,  and  twirl  the  leaf-edges  in  that. 

Make  Cookie  Place  Cards  for  your  child's  party.    Cut 
cookie  dough  in  rectangles,  bake.    Write  guests'  first  names 
on  cookies  with  icing  (use  a  pastry  tube).    A  dab  of  icing  on 
a  small  lace-paper  doily  will  hold  the  cookie  upright.    Child- 
ren love  to  eat  their  names. 

Make  A  Barber-Pole  Container  for  used  razor  blades. 
Paint  a  condensed  milk  can  in  red  and  white  stripes.    Cut  a 
slot  in  the  end,  large  enough  for  blades  to  slip  through.    Keep 
in  bathroom  with  the  shaving  materials. 

Make  Slip-Over  Boots  for  the  children's  sleepers,  out  of 
Daddy's  cast-off  socks.  Children  can  enjoy  a  bedtime  romp 
without  soiling  their  pajama  feet. 

If  the  feet  swell  readily,  always  buy  shoes  in  the  after- 
noon.   By  this  time  the  feet  have  spread  to  their  greatest 
extent,  and  the  new  shoes  will  be  comfortable  at  all  times. 

The  bathtub  and  other  porcelain  articles  can  be  quickly 
cleaned  by  using  half  of  a  lemon  rind. 

To  have  a  better  gas  flame  on  kitchen  range  use  an  ordi- 
nary pipe  cleaner  to  run  through  each  little  valve.     This  will 
clean  the  openings  of  all  grease  and  dirt  and  make  a  brighter 
flame. 

Mrs.  P.  B.  Heaton. 
72 


FRUIT  PUNCH 
(Serves  75) 
2     dozen  lemons  1-1/2  pounds  sugar 

2    large  cans  pineapple  juice  1    bottle  crushed  cherries 

2    large  cans  orange  juice  and  juice 

1     small  can  grapefruit  juice  2    large  bottles  Canada  Dry 

1  gallon  of  water  Ginger  Ale 
Additional  sugar  and  water  may  be  used  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Milton  Carter. 

SPICED  TEA  PUNCH 
1/2  cup  granulated  sugar  2    tablespoons  tea  leaves 

l/4  teaspoon  nutmeg  1/4  cup  orange  juice 

1/4  teaspoon  cinnamon  1/4  cup  lemon  juice 

2  cups  hot  water  2    cups  cold  water 

Mix  sugar,  spices  (tied  in  cheese  cloth  bag)  and  hot  water 
and  boil  1  minute.  Pour  over  tea  leaves  and  steep  3  minutes. 
Strain.    Add  fruit  juice  and  cold  water.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Lamb. 

HOT  SPICED  TEA 
1    teaspoon  whole  cloves  Juice  of  3  oranges 

1     inch  stick  cinnamon  Juice  of  1-1/2  lemons 

3  quarts  water  1     cup  sugar 
2- 1/2  tablespoons  black  tea 

Tie  spices  in  bag  and  bring  to  a  boil  in  water.    Add  tea 
tied  in  bag  loosely.    Steep  5  minutes  and  remove  bags.    Heat 
fruit  juices  and  sugar,  add  to  tea.    This  will  serve  25  people. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Warren,  Sr. 

SPICE  TEA 
Put  1   quart  of  cold  water  in  a  vessel  and  into  that  put  a 
small  bag  of  whole  cloves,  1  teaspoonful.    Bring  to  boil: 
juice  of  3  oranges,  2  lemons,  l/2  cup  sugar.    Put  in  sauce- 
pan.   Bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  into  the  water  with  the  cloves. 
Remove  the  spice  bag  and  drop  in  1  tea  bag  for  about  5  min- 
utes.   Serve  rather  hot  or  as  ice  tea. 

Mrs.  Earl  Howard. 

RUSSIAN  TEA 
Juice  of  4  oranges  1     cup  of  water 

Juice  of  3  lemons  3/4  cup  of  sugar 

Combine  the  above  ingredients  and  add  to  3  pints  of  tea. 

Mrs.  Abel  Warren. 


73 


EQUIVALENTS 
A  few  grains  --  Less  than  l/8  teaspoon 

3  teaspoons  --  1  tablespoon 

1  fluid  ounce  --2  tablespoons 

2  pints  --   1   quart 
8    quarts  --  1  peck 

4  pecks  --  1  bushel 

16  tablespoons  --  1  cup 
l/2  pint  jar  --   1   cup 
1     quart  jar  --  4  cups 
4    gills  --  1  pint 
4    quarts  --  1  gallon 

SUBSTITUTES 

1     square  chocolate  --  2-2/3  tablespoons  cocoa  and  1/2  table- 
spoon shortening 

1     cup  pastry  flour  --   1  cup  bread  flour  less  2  tablespoons 

1    tablespoon  cornstarch  --  1  tablespoon  flour 

1     teaspoon  baking  powder  --   1/4  teaspoon  soda  and  1/2  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar 

1     cup  sugar  --   l/4  to  1   cup  molasses  and  l/4  to  l/2  teaspoon 
soda 

1     cup  molasses  --   1  cup  honey 

1     cup  butter  --  2/3  cup  chicken  fat  clarified 

QUANTITIES  TO  SERVE  50  PEOPLE 
Tea  --  2  cups  (1/4  liquid)  2  gallons  boiling  water 
Coffee  --   1  pound  2  gallons  cold  water 
Fruit  juice  --  2  gallons 
Rice  4- l/2  pounds 
Sweet  potatoes  --  20  pounds 
Irish  potatoes  --21  pounds 
Green  peas,  canned  --  2  gallons 
Asparagus,  fresh  --  12  pounds 
Lima  beans,  canned  --  2  gallons 
String  beans,  fresh  --  8-1/2  pounds 
Carrots,  fresh  --  10  pounds 
Onions  --   16  pounds 
Mushrooms,  fresh  --  5  pounds 
Chicken  for  salad  --  4-1/2  pounds,  solid,  boned. 


74 


MEATS,  ESTIMATED  QUANTITY  NEEDED  PER  PERSON 
Chicken  dressed  --  1/2  pound 
Turkey,  dressed  --  3/4  pound 
Duckling,  dressed  --  3/4  pound 
Beef,  roast  --   1/3  pound 
Steak  --   l/2  pound 
Stew  Beef  --   l/3  pound 
Lamb,  roast  --  1/3  pound 
Lamb  chops  --   l/2  pound 
Ham,  cured  --   l/4  pound 
Ham,  fresh  --   1  /Z  pound 
Pork,  roast  --   l/2  pound 
Pork,  chops  --  2/3  pound 
Fish  --   1  pound 
Oysters  --  l/3  pound 


75 


Ajl 


, 


4-  \L  •  /  ' 


■      L  ^  !  /i 


'''>■■' 


...  7  ;^j^- 


- 


J 

; 

) 

-•   -  • 


i 


. 


4- 


c  .  /.„ 


>.  ■  '  •  — 

*  i  i 


. 


•  ' 


—~~  i  J 


" 


• 


-   7 


j 


(I 


-*" 


3 


- 


, 


■ 


-  'KJ  £+} 


