Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


THE 

┬░       COOK'S   ORACLE: 

CONTAIRIlia 

KECMPTS  FOR  PLAIN  COOKERY, 

OH  TBS 

MOST  ECbNOimCAL  PLAN  FOR  PBIVATE  FAMILIES  : 

ALSO) 
THE  ART  OF  COMPOSING  THE  MOST  SIMPLE,  AND  MOST  BIGHLT 

FINISHED 

BROTHS,  catAVIES,  SOUPS,  SAUCES,  STORE  SAUCES, 

AND  FLAVOURINO  ESSENCES  : 

T^  QuantHy  έΑλ/each  Article  it 

ACCURATELY  STATED  BY  WEIGHT  AND  MEASURE  j 

THE     WHOLE     BEING     THE     RESULT    OF 

IKSTITUTXD  IV 

THE  KITCHEN   OF  A  PHYSICIAN. 

έΑλέΑλMiMttit  utile  dqlei.*' 

TBOM  THE  LAST  LONDON  EDITION,  WHICH  IS  ALMOST  EN- 
TIRELY RE-WRITTEN. 


WITH  . 

AN  APPENDIX, 

BT  THB  AmniGAV  P17BLISHEB8,  VAJftKXTIHO  TABLES,  &<*. 


^   BOSTON  : 

rOBLISBSD    BY  MUNROE    AVD    FRAUGXt, 
No*  4.    Cornhill. 


1823; 


I 


-    έβο  έΨι       -     *  I 


\5  <fc/v>AA>^A-tAJk,>l^> 


/  DISTRICT  OF  MASSACHUSETTS,  to  wit: 

Duttict  ClerkU  Office. 

BE  IT  REMEMBERED,  that  on  the  eii^hth  day  of  Norember,  in  the  forty.- 
έΑλeremhyear  of  the  iodepenoenee  of  the  Unitad  Siatei  ofAmeriea,  Munroe  & 
Francis,  of  Oie  said  Dittriet^have  dc|>onted  in  this  olBoe  the  title  of  a  ImwIt,  the  rigfat 
vrhereof they  datm  as  proprieton,  m  the  words  following^,  to  wit : 

**  Hie  eook*s  Oracle :  oontainiair  Reeeipts  finr  plain  Cookery  on  the  most  eeo- 
nomical  plan  for  private  families  :  also  the  art  of  coroposinj^  the  most  simple,  and 
roost  highly  finished  broths,  gravies,  soups,  sanees,  store-sauces,  and  flavouring  es- 
sences :  the  quantity  of  each  article  is  accurately  stated  by  wei^t  and  measure ;  the 
whole  beinr  the  result  of  actual  experiments  instituted  in  the  kitchen  of  a  physician. 
Miscuit  utue  dulci.  From  the  last  London  edition  which  is  almost  entirely  re- 
writteu.    With  an  appendix  by  the  American  publishers,  Marketing  tables,  &c.** 

In  conformity  to  the  act  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  entitled,  "  An 
act  for  the  encouragement  of  learning,  by  securing  the  copies  of  maps,  charts  and 
books,  to  the  authors  and  proprietors  of  such  copies,'  during  the  times  therein  men- 
tioned ;**  and  also  to  an  act  entitled,  **  An  act  supplementary  to  an  act,  entitled,  an 
act  for  the  encouragement  of  learning,  by  securing  the  copies  of  maps,  charts  and 
books,  to  the  authors  and  proprietors  of  such  copies  during  the  times  tnerein  men- 
tioned ;  and  extending  the  benefits  thereof  to  the  arts  of  designing,  engraving, 
and  etching  historical  and   other  prints.** 

JOHN  W.  DAVIS,  Clerk  of  the  District  of  Masiaehusettf. 


Tfswism 


έΨι 


┬τ 


r 


TO 

THE  FOURTH  LONDON  EDITION. 


To  this  Fourth  edition  are  added  One  Hundred  and 
Thirty  New  Receipts,  which  will  greatly  improve  the 
Comfort  and  Economy  of  all,  especially  of  Catholic 
Families  ; έΑΦ ^being  the  best  methods  of  making 

Omelettes, 

Puddings, 

Maiore  and  Savoury  Pastier* 
*  Maiore  and  Savoury  Patties. 
Preserves, 
Tarts, 
Cakes, 
and  the  general  business  of 

The  Pastry  Cook  and  the  Baker. 
Also,  an  easy  and  economical  Process  for  preparing 

Pickles  ; 

by  which  they  will  be  ready  in  a  fortnight,  and  remain 
good  for  Years. 


IV  PREFACE. 

The  Editor  hopes  that  in  the  New  Receipts,  iht 
quantities  of  the  various  articles,  and  the  processes  for 
compounding  them,  are  described  so  accurately  and  so 
,  plainly, έΑΦ that  the  most  inexperienced  person  may 
work  from  them  :  but  he  does  not  vouch  for  all  those 
new  Receipts, έΑΦ as  some  of  them  have  not  yet  been 
proved  in  his  own  kitchen. 


mmim^ 


Among  the  multitude  of  causes  which  concur  to  Impair  Heahb 
aod  produce  Disease,  the  most  general  is  the  improper  quality 
pf  our  Food,  this,  most  frequently,  arises  from  the  injudicious 
manner  in  which  it  is  prepared ; έΑΦ vet,  strange,  <<  passing 
strange,"  this  is  the  only  one,  for  which  a  remedy  has  not  been 
aougS ; έΑΦ and  few  persons  bestow  half  so  much  attention  on 
the  preservation  of  their  own  Health, έΑΦ as  they  daily  devote  to 
that  of  their  Dogs  and  Horses. 

The  observations  of  the  Guardians  of  Health  respecting  Re- 
gimen, &c.  have  formed  no  more  than  a  Catalogue  of  those  ar- 
ticles of  Food,  which' they  have  considered  most  proper  for 
particular  Constitutions. 

Some  Medical  writers,  have  ^  in  good  set  terms  ''  warned 
us  against  the  pernicious  effects  of  improper  Diet;  but  not  One 
has  been  so  kind,  as  to  take  the  trouble  to  direct  us  how  to 
prepare  food  properly. 

The  Editor  has  endeavoured  to  write  the  following  Receipts 
so  plainly,  that  they  may  be  as  easily  understood  in  the  Kitch- 
en as  He  trusts  they  will  be  reUshed  m  the  Dining  Room έΑΦ and 
has  been  more  ambitious  to  present  to  the  Public,  a '  Work 
which  will  contribute  to  the  daily  Comfort  of  All έΑΦ than  t┬╗ 
seem  elaborately  Scienti^c. 

The  practical  part  of  the  philosophy  of  the  Kitchen,  is  cer- 
tainly not  the  most  agreeable  5 έΑΦ Gastrology  has  to  contend 
wjth  its  full  share  of  those  great  impediments  to  al(  great  im*- 
provements  in  scientific  pursuits, έΑΦ the  prejudices  of  the  Igno- 
rant,έΑΦ ^and  the  misrepresentations  of  the  Envious. 

The  Sagacity  to  comprehend  and  estimate  the  importance 

of  uncontemplated  improvement έΑΦ is  con^ned  to  the  very  few,. 

on  whom  Nature  has  bestowed  a  sufficient  degree  of  perfection 

of  the  Sense  which  is  to  measure  it; έΑΦ the  candour  to  make  a 

1* 


VI  PREFACE. 

fair  report  of  it  is  still  more  uncommon^έΑΦ and  the  kindness  to 
encourage  it  cannot  often  be  expected  from  those,  whose  most 
vital  interest  it  is  to  prevent  the  developement  of  thatby^which 
their  own  importance έΑΦ perhaps  their  only  means  of  Existence 
έΑΦ may  be  for  ever  eclipsed-^so  as  Pope  says έΑΦ 

"  All  fear, έΑΦ None  aid  you, έΑΦ and  Few  understand." 

Improvements  in  Agriculture  and  the  Breed  of  Cattle  have 
been  encouraged  by  Premiums; έΑΦ (see  note  under  No.  19,  and 
under  No.  59.)  Those  who  have  obtained  them,  have  been 
hailed  as  benefactors  to' Society ; έΑΦ ^but  the  Art  of  making  use 
of  these  means  of  ante/toro^iTi^  Lt/e,  anc^^upporftn^  a  heal' 
thy  Existence έΑΦ Cookery, έΑΦ has  been  neglected. 

While  the  cultivators  of  the  raw  materials  are  distinguished 
and  rewarded, έΑΦ the  attempt  to  improve  the  processes,  without 
which,  neither  Vegetable  nor  Animal  substances  are  fit  for  the 
food  of  Man  (astonishing  to  say,)  has  been  ridiculed, έΑΦ as  un- 
worthy the  attention  of  a  rational  Being  !  !  ! 

This  most  useful  Art,f έΑΦ which  the  Editor  has  chosen  to  en- 
deavour to  illustrate,  because  nobody  else  has έΑΦ ^and  because  he 
knew  not  how  he  could  employ  some  leisure  hours  more  bene- 
ficially for  Mankind, έΑΦ than  to  teach  them  to  combine  thet^tVe 
with  the  dulce^  and  to  increase  their  pleasures,  without  impair- 
ing their  Health  or  impoverishing  their  Fortune έΑΦ has  been  for 
many  Years  his  favourite  employment,  and    "  The  Art  op 

INVIGORATING   AND   PROLONGING  LiPE,  BY  DiET  AND  ReOI- 

MEN,"  &c.  and  this  Work, έΑΦ have  insensibly  become  reposi- 
tories, for  whatever  Observations  he  has  made,  which  he 
thought  would  make  us έΑΦ Live  happy  and  Live  long. 

The  Editor  has  considered  the  Aut  of  Cookery,  not  mere- 
ly as  a  mechanical  operation,  fit  only  for  working  Cooks έΑΦ but 
as  the  Analeptic  part  of  the  Art  of  Physic, 

┬τ  How  best  the  fickle  fabric  to  support 

"  Of  moital  man,έΑΦ in  healthful  body  how 

"  A  healthful  mind,  the  long^est  to  mainUin."έΑΦ 

is  an  Occupation έΑΦ neither  unbecoming  nor  unworthy.  Philos- 
ophers of  the  highest  class :έΑΦ such  only  can  comprehend  its 
Importance, έΑΦ which  amounts  to  no  less,  than  not  only  the  en- 
joyment of  the  present  moment,  but  the  more  precious  advan- 
tage, of  improving  and  preserving  Health,  and  prolonging 

fOThe  only  te$t  of  the  uiilily  of  KoQvlcdge,  ii  its  promoting  Uie  bappincu  of 
iittiikiDd.**'X>r.  Stark  on  Diet* 


:έΕλ--^┬τ┬╗l┬╗|┬╗    -^^^ 


έΑλ"  V┬τ┬μ┬╗>    W 


^mf*    'έΑλ^' 


caprice 
pd  Live 


Vlll  PREFACE. 

long,  and  comfortably,  or  speedily  Die  of  Stanratioa  ia  the 
midst  of  Plenty. 

These  Rules  and  orders  for  the  regulation  of  the  business  of 
the  Kitchen  have  been  exttemely  beneficial  to  the  ┬μditors 
own  Health  and  Comfort.  He  hopes  they  will  be  equally  so 
to  others, έΑΦ they  will  help  those  who  enjoy  Health,  to  preserve 
it έΑΦ teach  those  who  have  delicate  and  irritable  Stomachs,  how 
to  keep  them  in  good  temper έΑΦ and  with  a  little  discretion 
enable  them  to  indulge  occasionally,  not  only  with  impunity^ 
bat  with  advantage,  in  all  those  alimentary  pleasures  which  a 
rational  Epicuret  can  desire. 

There  is  no  question  more  frequently  asked έΑΦ or  which  a 
Medical  man  finds  more  difficulty  in  answering  to  the  satisfac- 
tion of  Himself  and  his  Patient  than έΑΦ WheU  do  you  wish  me 
to  eat  f 

The  most  judicious  choice  of  Aliment  will  avail  nothing,  un- 
less the  Culinary  preparation  of  it  be  equally  judicious. έΑΦ How 
often  is  the  skill  of  a  pains-taking  Physician  counteracted  by 
want  of  corresponding  attention  to  the  preparation  of  Food έΑΦ 
and  the  poor  Patient,  instead  of  deriving  Nourishment έΑΦ is  dis^ 
tressed  by  Indigestion. 

Parmentier,  in  his   Code  Pkamutceutiquey  has  given  a 
chapter  on  the  preparation  of  Food έΑΦ some  of  the  following  Re- 
ceipts are  offered  as  an  humble  attempt  to  form  a  sort  of 
Appendix  to  the  Pharmacopceia έΑΦ ^like  pharmaceutic  pre- 
scriptions they  are  precisely  adjusted  by  weight  and  measure, 
έΑΦ and  in  future,  by  ordering  such  Receipts  of  the  Cook^s 
Oracle  as  appear  adapted  to  the  case έΑΦ tiie  recovery  of  the 
Patient,  and  the  credit  of  the  Physician,  as  far  as  relates  to  the 
administration  of  AHment, έΑΦ need  no  longer  depend  on  the 
discretion  of  the  Cook. έΑΦ For  instance:    Mutton  Brothy  (No. 
490  or  564;)  Toast  and  Waler^  (No.  4G3;)    WaUr  Gruel^ 
(No.  572  ;)  Beef  Tea,  (;No.  563  ;)  and  Portable  Soup,  (No. 
252.)     This  concentrated  Essence  of  Meat έΑΦ will  be  found  a 
great  acquisition  to  the  comfort  of  the  Army έΑΦ the  Navy έΑΦ the 
Traveller έΑΦ and  the  Invalid έΑΦ by  dissolving  half  an  Ounce  of 
it  in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  you  have  in  a  few  minutes,  half 
a  Pint  of  good  Broth  for  three  halfpence. 

He  has  also  circumstantially  detailed  the  easiest,  least  ex- 
pensive, and  most  salubrious  methods  of  preparing  those  high- 
ly finished  Soups έΑΦ Sauces έΑΦ Ragouts έΑΦ and  piquante  relishes, 

t  For  the  Editor^i  dcfiuitioB  of  this  term,  se┬τ  the  note  Id  pas<^  4  of  the  foUowi&|B 
Introduction. 


s^  a^BB^KSf^  ' 


έΑλέΨι┬τll^  έΑλ 


4  fUj^  έΑλ 


.┬τ, 


for  tbe 
per- 
eluci- 
tailing 
Appear 
alέΑΦ to 
com- 
Fomt- 
>  with 
atn- 


givtD 
έΨιen  the 


┬╗9ts  op 

|t┬τ||feth  the 

┬τ^┬╗  ┬τ^┬╗  ┬τ^┬╗  *^* 


┬τέΨι-$-:έΨι 


otmost  facility  and  certainty  of  succe88^--*and  soon  become  a 
Good  Cook. 

Will  all  the  other  Books  of  Cookery  that  ever  were  printed 
do  this?*έΑΦ The  Editor  has  patiently  pioneered  through  up- 
wards of  Two  Hundred  Cookbrt  Books,  before  he  set  about 
fecording  these  results  of  his  own  Experiments  !  ! ! 

Store  Sauces  and  many  articles  of  Domestic  Comfort 
which  are  extravagantly  expensive  to  purchase,  and  can  very 
seldom  be  procured  "genuine έΑΦ He  has  given  plain  directions 
how  to  prepare  at  Home έΑΦ of  infinitely  finer  flavour,  and  con- 
siderably cheaper  than  they  can  be  obtained  ready-made  :έΑλέΑΦ 
for  example, 

Mushroom  Catsup,  (No.  439.) 
Essence  of  Celery,  (No.  409.) 
έΑΦ έΑΦ έΑΦ -  Anchovy,    (No.  433.) 

SweetHerbs,  (No.  417.) 

έΨιέΨιέΨι  Lemon  Peel,  (No.  408.) 

Savoury  Spice,  (No.  421,  457, 459, 460.) 

Ginger,  (No.  411.) 

Cayenne  Pepper,  (No.  404.) 
Curry  Powder,  (No.  456.) 
EsHALLOT  Wine,  (No.  402.) 
Portable  Soup,  (No.  252,)  &c.  &c. 

Thus,  the  table  of  the  most  Economical  Family,  may,  by 
the  help  of  this  Book έΑΦ be  served  with  as  much  delicacy  and 
salubrity,  as  that  of  a  Sovereign  Prince, έΑΦ and  the  comforts  of 
the  Opulent  are  brought  within  the  reach  of  the  Middle  Banks 
of  Society. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Thk  following  Receipts  are  not  a  mere  marrowless  coUeetion 
ofshredsy  and  patches,  and  cuttings,  and  pastings; έΑΦ bul  a 
bonajlde  register  of  Practical  Facts, έΑΦ accumulated  by  a  per- 
severance not  to  be  subdued,  or  evaporated,  by  the  igniferous 
terrors  of  a  Roasting  Firein  the  Dog-days, έΑΦ in  defiance  of  the 
odoriferous  and  califacient  repellents,  ofRoeuting, έΑΦ Boiling^ 
'-'Frying έΑΦ and  Broiling : έΑΦ moreover,  the  author  has  submit* 
ted  to  a  labour  no  preceding  Cookery-Bookmaker,  perhaps, 
ever  attempted  to  encounter έΑΦ having  eaten  each  Receipt,  be* 
fore  he  set  it  down  in  his  book. 

They  have  all  been  heartily  welcomed  by  a  sufficiently  well 
educated  Palate,  and  a  rather  fastidious  Stomach  ; έΑΦ ^perhaps 
this  certificate  of  the  reception  of  the  respective  preparations-* 
will  partly  apologise  for  the  Book  containing  a  smaller  number 
of  them,  than  preceding  writers  on  this  gratifying  subject,  have 
transcribed, έΑΦ for  the  amusement  of  ^  every  man's  Abster," 
the  STOMACH* 

Numerous  as  are  the  Receipts  in  former  Books,  they  vary 
little  from  each  other,  except  in  the  name  given  to  them ;  the 
processes  of  Cookery  are  very  few, έΑΦ I  have  endeavoured  to 
describe  each,  in  so  plain  and  circumstantial  a  manner,  as  I 
hope  will  be  easily  understood,  even  by  the  Amateur,  who  is 
unacquainted  with  the  practical  part  of  Culinary  concerns. 

Old  Housekeepers  may  think  I  have  been  tediously  mi- 
nute on  many  points,  which  may  appear  trifling ; έΑΦ my  Prede- 
cessors seem  to  have  considered  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery 
quite  unworthy  of  attention.  These  little  delicate  distinctions, 
constitute  all  the  difference  between  a  common  and  an  elegant 

*  ''The  Stomach  is  the  Grnnd  Or^an  of  the  bumao  system,  upon 
the  state  of  which,  all  the  powers  aod  feelings  of  the  Individual  de- 
pend."έΑΦ See  Hunter's  Culina. 

"  The  faculty  the  Stomach  has  of  communicating^  the  impressions 
made  by  the  various  substances  that  are  put  into  it,  is  such  that  it 
seems  more  like  a  nervous  expansion  from  the  Brain,  than  a  mere  re- 
ceptacle for  Food." έΑΦ Dr.  Watbrhoose's  Lecliire  on  Heallh. 


12  iirrRODUCTiolf. 

Table,  and  are  not  trifles  to  the  Young  HousekeepieB;  who 
inust  learn  them  either  from  the  communication  of  others^έΑΦ or 
blunder  on  till  his  own  slowly-accumulating  and  dear-bought 
experience  teaches  him. 

A  wish  to  save  Time,  Trouble,  and  Money,  to  inexperienced 
Housekeepers  and  Cooks, έΑΦ and  to  bring  the  enjoyments  and 
indulgences  of  the  Opulent  within  reach  of  the  middle  Ranks 
of  Society, έΑΦ were  my  motives  for  publishing  this  book ;-έΑΦ I 
could  accomplish  it,  only  by  supposing  the  lUader,  (when  he 
first  opens  it,)  to  be  as  ignorant  of  Cookery, έΑΦ ^as  I  was  when 
I  first  thought  of  writing  on  the  subject.* 

I  have  done  my  best  to  contribute  to  the  comfort  of  my  fel- 
low creatures  :έΑΦ by  a  careful  attention  to  the  directions  herein 
given,  the  most  ignorant  may  easily  learn  to  prepare  FoodέΑΦ 
not  only  in  an  agreeable  and  wholesome^ έΑΦ but  in  an  elegant 
and  economical  manner. 

This  task,  seems  to  have  been  left  for  me,  and  I  have  en* 
deavoured  to  collect  and  communicate  in  the  clearest  and  most 
intelligible  manner,  the  whole  of  the  heretofore  abtruse  Mys- 
teries of  4he  Culinary  Art^  which  are  herein,  I  hope,  so  plain- 
ly developed,  that  the  most  inea^^erienced  student  in  the  occult 
Art  of  Cookery,m0^  work  from  my  Receipts^witk  the  utmost 
facility. 

I  am  perfectly  aware  of  the  extreme  difficulty,  of  teaching 
those  who  are  entirely  unacquainted  with  the  subject,  and  of 
explaining  my  ideas  efifectually  by  mere  Receipts,  to  those 
who  never  shook  hands  with  a  Stewpan. 

In  my  anxiety  to  be  readily  understood, έΑΦ ^I  have  perhaps 
been  under  the  necessity  of  occasionally  repeating  the  same 
directions,  in  different  parts  of  the  book  :  but  I  would  rather 
be  censured  for  repetition,  than  for  obscurity, έΑΦ and  hope  I 
shall  not  be  accused  of  Affectation,  while  my  intention  is 
Perspicuity. 


*  <<  De  toutes  le<  Connaissances  nccessaires  aThuinanite  seuffrante  ; 
la  plus  agreable,  la  plus  importaiite  a  la  conservatioD  des  homines,  et 
a  la  perpetuite  de  toutes  les  jouissances  de  la  nature,  c'est  Ik  parfaite 
connaissance  des  alimens  destines  a  former  notre  constitution,  a  forti- 
fier tous  nos  membres,  a  ranimer  ces  erganes  destines  a  la  perfection 
des  sens,  et  a  etre  les  mediateurs  des  talens,  de  Tesprit,  du  genie,  he, 

C'est  du  sue  exprime  de  nos  fluides  alimentaries,  qu'est  forme  le  tis- 
8u  de  notre  frele  machine  ;  c'est  au  chyle  qui  en  provient,  que  notre 
sang,  nos  chairs,  nos  nerfs,  nos  organes,  et  tous  nos  sens,  doif  ent  leur 
existence  et  leur  sensibilite." 


INTnODUCTIONi 


13 


Our  neighbours  in  France,  are  8o  justly  farooas  for  their  skill 
in  the  affairs  of  the  Kitchen,  that  the  adage  says,  **  as  many 
Frenchmen^  as  many  Cooks/*  surrounded  as  they  are  by  a  pro- 
fusion of  the  most  delicious  Wines,  and  seducing  Liqueurs  of- 
fering every  temptation  to  render  drunkenness  delightful,  yet  a 
tippling  Frenchman  is  a  "  vara  avis** 

They  know  how  so  easily  to  keep  Life  in  sufficient  repair  by 
good  eating,  that  they  require  little  or  no  screwing  up  with  li- 
quid Stimuli. έΑΦ This  accounts  for  that  ^'' toujour s  gai/*  and 
happy  equilibriumj>f  the  animal  spirits,  which  they  enjoy  with 
more  regularity  than  any  people: έΑΦ their  elastic  Stomachs  un- 
impaired by  Spirituous  Liquors,  digest  vigorously  the  food 
they  sagaciously-  prepare  and  render  easily  assimilable,  by 
cooking  it  sufficiently, έΑΦ wisely  contriving  to  get  half  the  work 
of  the  Stomach  done  by  Fire  and  W^ter,  tillέΑΦ 


<*  The  tender  morsels  on  the  palate  melt, 
'<  And  all  the  force  of  Cookery  is  felt.' 


┬╗┬╗ 


See  (No3.  5  and  238,)  &c. 

The  cardinal  virtues  of  Cookery,  *'  cleanliness,  fruoali- 
TT,  NOURISHMENT,  AND  PALATEABLENESs,*'  preside  over  each 
preparation  ;  for  I  have  not  presumed  to  insert  a  single  compo- 
sition, without  previously  obtaining  the  *έΑλ  irnprimatur**  o(  an  en- 
lightened and  indefatigable  "  COMMITTEE  OF  TASTE,** 
(composed  of  tborough-bred  orands  gourmands  of  the  first 
magnitude,)  whose  cordial  co-operatieo^  I  cannot  too  highly 
praise  ;  and  here  do  I  most  gratefully  record  the  unremitting 
zeal  they  manifested  during  their  arduous  progress  of  proving 
the  respective  Recipei;, έΑΦ they  ^ere  so  truly  philosophically  aud 
disinterestedly  regardless  of  the  wear  and  tear  of  teeth  and  sto- 
mach, that  their  Labour  appeared  a  Pleasure  to  them. έΑΦ Their 
laudable  perseverance, έΑΦ which  has  enabled  me  to  give  the  inex- 
perienced Amateur  an  unerring  and  economical  Gfuide,  how  to 
excite  as  much  pleasure  as  possible  on  the  Palate,  and  occasion 
as  little  trouble  as  possible  to  the  Principal  Viscera, έΑΦ has  hard- 
ly been  exceeded  by  those  determined  spirits  who  lately  in  the 
Polar  expedition  braved  the  other  extreme  of  temperature,  &c. 
in  9\y'ue  of  Whales,  Bears,  Icebergs,  and  Starvation. 

Every  attention  has  been  paid  in  directing  the  proportions  of 
the  following  Compositions,  not  merely  to  make  them  inviting 
to  the  Appetite,  but  agreeable  and  useful  to  the  Stomach  ;έΑλέΑΦ ^ 


'c 


14  INTRODUCTION. 

nourislung  without  beiog  ioflammatory,  aad  savoury  without 
being  surfeiting. 

I  have  written  principdily  for  those  who  make  Nourishmeot 
the  chief  end  of  Eating,*  and  do  not  desire  to  provoke  Appe* 
tite,  beyond  the  powers  and  necessities  of  Nature ;έΑΦ proceed- 
ing however  on  the  purest  Epicurean  principles  of  indulging 
the  Palate,  as  far  as  it  can  be  done  without  injury  or  offence  to 
the  Stomach έΑΦ and  forbidding  nothing,  but  what  is  absolutely 
unfriendly  to  Heatth.f 

*  I  wish  most  heartily  that  the  restorative  process  was  performed 
by  us  poor  mortals,  in  as  easy  and  simple  a  manner,  as  it  is  in  <'  the 
Cookinfr  Animals  in  the  J^oon,'*  who  "  lose  no  time  at  their  meals  ; 
but  open  their  left  side,  and  place  the  whole  quantity  at  once  in  their 
stomachs,  then  shut  it,  till  the  same  day  in  tlie  next  month,  for  th6y 
never  indulge  themselves  with  foo^  more  than  twelve  times  in  a  year." 
See  Baron  Munchausen's  Travels. 

Pleasing  the  Palate  is  the  main  end  in  inost  books  of  Cookery,  but 
it  is  my  aim  to  blend  the  toothsome  loith  the  wholesome  ;  for,  after  all, 
however  the  hale  Gourmand  may  at  first  difier  from  me  in  opinion, 
the  latter  is  the  chief  concern  ;  since  if  he  be  even  so  entirely  devoted 
to  the  pleasure  of  eating,  as  to  think  of  no  other,  still  the  care  of  his 
liealth  becomes  part  of  that ;  if  he  is  Sick,  he  cannot  relish  his  Food. 

**  The  term  Gourmand  or  EpicuRir,  has  been  strangely  perverted  ; 
it  has  been  conceived  synonimous  with  a  Glutton,  <<  ne  pour  la  di- 
f^estiony"  who  will  cat  as  long  as  he  can  sit,  and  drink  longer  than  he 
can  stand,  nor  leave  his  cup  while  he  can  lift  it ;  or  like  the  great 
cater  of  Kent  whom  Fuller  places  among  his  Worthies,  and  tells  us 
tliBt  he  did  eat  with  ease,  thirty  dozens  of  Pigeons  at  one  meal, έΑΦ at 
another  four  score  RabbvtSj' and  eighieen  Yards  of  Black  Pudding, 
London  Measure  ! ! ! έΑΦ or  a  fastidious  Appetite,  only  to  be  excited  by 
fantastic  Dainties,  as  the  brains  of  Peacocks  or  Parrots,  the  tougues.of 
Thrushes  or  JVightingales,  or  the  teats  of  a  lactiferous  Sow. 

<'  In  the  acceptation  which  I  give  to  the  term  JEpicure,  it  means 
only  the  person  who  has  good  sense  and  good  taste  enough,  to  wish 
to  have  his  food  cooked  according  to  scientific  principles ;  diat  is  to 
say,  so  prepared,  that  the  palate  be  not  offendedέΑΦ that  it  be  rendered 
ca┬τy  of  solution  in  the  Stomach,  and  ultimately  contribute  to  Health  ; 
ex^citing  him  as  an  animal,  to  the  vigorous  enjoyment  of  those  recrea* 
tious  and  duties,  physical  and  intellectual,  which  constitute  the  happi- 
ness and  dignitj'  of  his  nature."  For  this  illustration  I  am  indebted 
to  my  scientific  friend  Apicius  C(elius,  Jun.  with  whose  erudite  obser- 
vations several  pages  of  this  work  are  enriched,  to  which  I  have  af- 
fixed the  signature  A.  C.  Jun, 

t  "  Although  air  is  more  immediately  necessary  to  life  than  food, 
the  knowledge  of  the  latter  seems  of  more  importance  ;  it  admits  cer- 
tainly of  great  variety,  and  a  choice  is  more  frequently  in  our  power. 
A  very  spare  and  simple  diet  has  commonly  been  recommended  as 
meat  coodncive  to  Health  ; έΑΦ but  it  would  be  more  beneficial  to  man- 
kind if  we  could  show  them  that  a  pleasant  and  varied  diet,  was  equal- 


INTRODUCTION.  15 

This  is  by  no  means  so  difficult  a  task,  as  some  gloomy  phi- 
losophers (uninitiated  in  culinary  science)  have  tried  to  make 
the  world  believe έΑΦ who  seem  to  have  delighted  in  persuading 
you,  that  every  thing  that  is  nice  must  be  noxious;  and  that  έΑλ 
CYery  thing  that  is  nasty,  is  wholesome. 

But'as  worthy  William  Shakspeare  declared  he  never  found 
a  philosopher  who  could  endure  the  Tooth-ach  patiently, έΑΦ tho 
Editor  protests  that  he  has  not  yet  overtaken  one,  who  did  not 
love  a  Feast. 

Those  Cynical  Slaves, έΑΦ who  are  so  silly, έΑΦ as  to  suppose  it 
unbecoming  a  wise  roan,  to  indulge  in  the  common  comforts  of 
Life^ έΑΦ should  be  answered  in  the  words  of  the  French  philoso- 
pher, *'  Hey έΑΦ WhatέΑΦ do  you  Philosophers  eat  dainties  ?*'  said 
a  gay  Marquess.  "  Do  you  think,**  replied  Descartes,  *'  that 
God  made  good  things  only  for  fools  ?'* 

Every  individual,  who  is  not  perfectly  imbecile  and  void  of 
understanding,  is  an  Epicure  in  his  own  way έΑΦ the  Epicures  in 
boiling  of  Potatoes  are  innumerable έΑΦ the  perfection  of  all  en- 
joyment depends  on  the  perfection  of  the  faculties  of  the  Mind 
and  Body έΑΦ the  Temperate  man,  is  the  greatest  Epicure, έΑΦ and 
the  only  true  Voluptuary, 

The  Pleasures  of  the  Table,  have  been  hij;hly  appre- 
ciated,  and  carefully  cultivated  in  all   Countries έΑΦ and   in  all 

\y  consistent  with  hf  altb,  ns  the  very  strict  regimen  ai  Arnard,  or  the 
Miller  of  Essex.  These  and  other  abstemious  peoplo,  whe,  havin<;  ex- 
perienced the  grckte^t  extremities  of  bad  health,  were  driven  to  tem- 
perance as  their  last  refmurre,  may  run  oat  in  praises  of  a  simple 
diet ;  but  the  probability  is,  that  nothing  but  the  dread  of  former  suf- 
ferings could  have  given  them  the  resoluiion  to  persevere  in  so  strict 
a  course  of  abstinence ;  which,  persons  who  are  in  health',  and  have 
no  such  apprehension,  could  not  be  induced  to  undertake,  or,  if  they 
did,  would  not  long  continue. 

<'  In  all  cases,  great  allowance  must  be  made  for  the  weakness  of 
human  nature )  the  desires  and  appetites  of  mankind,  must  to  a  cer- 
tain degree  be  gratified,  and  the  man  who  wishes  to  be  most  useful, 
will  imitate  the  indulgent  Parent,  who  whilst  he  endeavours  to  pro- 
mote the  true  interests  of  his  children,  allows  them  the  full  enjoyment 
ot  all  those  innocent  pleasures  which  they  take  delight  in.  Tf  it  conld 
be  pointed  out  to  mankind,  that  some  articles  used  as  food  were  hurt- 
ful, while  others  were  in  their  nature  innocent,  and  that  the  latter 
were  numerous,  various,  and  pleasant,  they  might,  perhaps,  be  indu- 
ced to  forego  those  which  were  hurtful,  and  confine  themselves  tu 
those  which  were  innocent."έΑΦ See  Dr.  Stark's  Experimeiils  on  JHe(. 


16  mXRODUCTION. 

Ages, έΑΦ and  in  spite  of  all  the  Stoics,-^every  one  will  allow 
they  are  the  first  and  the  last  we  enjoy, έΑΦ and  those  we  taste 
the  oftenedt, έΑΦ above  a  Thousand  times  in  a  Year,  every  Year 
tff  our  Lives  1 1 1 

The  Stomach,  is  the  mainspring  of  our  System, έΑΦ if  it  he 
not  sufficiently  wound  up  to  w^m  the  Heart,  and  support  the 
Circulation, έΑΦ the  whole  business  of  Life,  will  in  proportion  be 
ineffectively  performed, έΑΦ we  can  neither  Think  with  precision, 
έΑΦ ^eep  with  tranquillity, έΑΦ  Walk  with  vigour, έΑΦ oxsiidown 
with  comfort.  ^ 

There  would  be  no  difficulty  in  proving,  that  it  influences 
(much  more  than  people  in  general  imagine)  all  our  actions: έΑΦ 
the  destiny  of  Nations  has  often  depended  upon  the  more  or 
less  laborious  digestion  of  a  Prime  Minister* έΑΦ see  a  very  cu* 
rious  Anecdote  in  the  Memoirs  of  Count  Zinzendorf  iq 
Dodsley's  Annual  Register  for  1762. 

The  philosopher  P^^^oras,  seems  to  have  been  extremely 
nice  in  eating, έΑΦ among  bis  absolute  injunctions  to  bis  disciples, 
be  commands  them,  to  **  abstain  from  Beans." 

This  ancient  Sage,   has   been  imitated   by  the  learned  wbo 

^  have  discoursed  on  this  subject  since έΑΦ who  are  liberal  of  their 

negative^-and  niggardly  of  their  positive  precepts έΑΦ iu  the  ratio, 

that  it  is  easier  to  tell  you  not  to  do  this,  than  to  teach  you  bow 

to  do  that. 

Our  great  English  moralist  Dr.  S.  Johnson,  bis  biographer 
Boswell  tells  us,  ''  was  a  man  of  very  nice  discernment  in  the 
science  of  Cookery,*'  and  talked  of  good  eating,  with  uncom- 
mon satisfaction.  ''  Some  people,*'  said  be,  *'*'  have  a  foolish 
way  of  not  minding,  or  pretending  not  to  mind  what  they  eat : 
for  my  part,  I  mind  my  Belly  very  studiously  and  very  careful- 
ly, and  I  look  upon  it,  that  ho  who  does  not  mind  bis  Belly, 
will  hardly  mind  any  thing  else." 

The  Dr.  might  have  said,  cannot  mind  any  thing  else έΑΦ the 
energy  of  our  Brains  is  sadly  dependent  on  the  behaviour  of 
our  BowELsf έΑΦ those  who  say  *Tis  no  matter  what  we  eat  or 

*  See  the  2d,  3d,  and  4th  pages  of  Sir  VVh.  Tehple's  Essay  on  the 
Cure  of  the  Gout  by  Moxa. 

t  <<  He  that  would  have  a  clear  head,  must  have  a  clean  Stomach" 
έΑλέΑΦDr.  Cheyne  on  Health. 

*^  It  is  sufficiently  manifest  how  much  uncomfortable  feelings  of  the 
Bowels,  affect  the  Nervous  System,  and  hov^  immediately  and  com^ 
pletely  the  general  disorder  is  relieved  by  an  alvine  evacuation. '^-^ 


INTRODUCTION'.  ^  ^ 

what  we  driok,έΑΦ may  as  well  ┬╗ay,  *Ti┬╗  no  matter  whether  wo 

eat,  or  whether  we  drink.  έΑλ    f  έΑλ/έΑλ     ^ 

The  following  Anecdote   I  copy  from  Boswbll's  Ufe  of 

Johnson. 

Johnson. έΑΦ "  I  co┬τld  write  a  better  Book  of  Cookery  than 
has  ever  yet  been  written  ; έΑΦ it  should  be  a  book  on  philosophi- 
cal principles. έΑΦ I  would  tell  what  is  the  best  BulcberV  Meat 
έΑΦthe  proper  season  of  different  VegeubiesέΑΦ and  then,  how  to 
roast,  and  boil,  and  to  compound." 

j)iUy, έΑΦ "  jdrs.  Glasse'i  Cookery^  which  is  th┬τ  best,  was 
written  by  Dr.  Hill." 

Johnson.-έΑΦ'*  Well,  Sir έΑΦ this  shows  how  much  better  the  sub- 
ject of  Cookery*  may  be  treated  by  a  Philosopher ;+ έΑΦ but  you 

┬τ  We  cannot  reasonablj  expect  traDquilHtj  of  the  Nervous  System, 
whilst  tbefe  is  disorder  of  the  digestive  organs.  As  we  can  perceive 
no  permanent  source  of  strength,  bat  from  the  digestion  of  our  food, 
It  becomes  important  on  this  account,  that  we  should  attend  to  its 
quantity,  quality,  and  the  periods  of  taking  it,  with  a  view  to  ensure 

its  proper  digestion. "-^Absritetht'b  8ur.  Ob$. 

*  **  If  science  can  really  contribute  to  the  happiness  of  mankind,  it 
must  be  in  this  department ;  the  real  comfort  of  the  majority  of  men 
in  this  country  is  sought  for  at  their  own  lire-side ;  how  desirable  does 
it  then  become  to  give  every  iodocement  to  be  at  home,  by  directing 
sdl  the  means  of  Philosophy  to  increase  Domestic  Happiness.'* έΑΦ Sil* 
┬ξsstkr's  Philowphy  cf  Dometiie  Economy. 

t  The  best  Books  of  Cookery  have  been  written  by  Physicians  ^-^ 
Sir  Kenelm  Digby*έΑΦ Sir  TBEopoas  Mateiute έΑΦ Professor  Bbad- 
LEY έΑΦ ^Dr.  Hill έΑΦ Dr.  Le  Coihte έΑΦ Dr.  Hunter,  &c. 

┬τ  To  understand  the  Theory  of  Cookery,  we  must  attend  to  the 
Action  of  heat  upon  the  various  constituents  of  alimentary  substances 
as  applied  directly  and  indirectly  through  the  medium  of  some  fluid, 
in  the  former  way  as  exemplified."  In  the  processes  of  RoAsriire  and 
έΨι  Boiling,  the  chief  constituents  of  animal  substances  undergo  the  fol- 
lowing changes^^^he  Fibtine  is  corrugated,  the  Albumen  coagulated, 
the  Gelaiine  and  Osmazome  rendered  more  soluble  in  water,  the  Fat 
liquefied,  and  the  Water  evaporated. 

'<  If  the  heat  exceed  a  certain  degree,  the  surface  becomes  first 
brown,  and  then  scorched.  In  consequence  of  these  changes,  the 
muscular  fibre  becomes  opaque,  shorter,  firmer,  and  drier ;  the  teu- 
dons  less  opaque,  softer,  and  gluey  ;  the  fat  is  either  melted  out,  or 
rendered  semi-transparent.  Animal  fluids  become  more  transparent ; 
the  albumen  is  coagulated  and  separated,  and  they  dissolve  gelatine 
and  osmazome. 

"  Lastly,  and  what  is  the  most  important  change,  and  the  immediate 
object  of  all  Cookery,  the  meat  loses  the  vapid  nauseous  smell  and 
taste  peculiar  to  its  raw  state^  and  it  becomes  savoury  and  grateful. 

*  *  Heat  applied  through  the  iaterveoUon  of  boiling  9iL  or  melted  fat, 


^^  INTRODUCTION. 


shall  BέΓυe  what  a  book  of  Cookery  I  shall  make,  and  shall  Bgne 
with  Mr.  Dilly  tor  the  Copyright. 

Mi88Seward.^u  tjj^^  ^^^, j  ^  Hercules  with  the  distaff 
indeed  !  'έΑΦ 

Johnson.-^'*' No,  Madam;  Women  can  spin  very  well  έΑΦ . 
but  they  cannot  make  a  good  Book  of  Cookery."  ' 

Mr.  B.  adds,  "  I  nerer  knew  a  man  who  relished  good  eat- 
ing  more  than  he  did  :  when  at  Table,  he  was  totally  absorbed 
in.the  busmess  of  the  moment:  nor  would  be,  unless  in  very 
high  company,  say  one  word,  or  even  pay  the  least  attention 
to  what  was  said  by  others,  till  he  had  satisfied  his  Appetite." 

The  peculiarities  of  his  constitution  were  as  great  as  those  of 
his  character ;  Luxury  and  Intemperance  are  relative  terins--- 
depending  on  other  circumstances  than  mere  <|uantity  and  qual- 
ity.     Nature  gave  him  an  excellent  Palate,  and  a  craving  Ap- 
petite,έΑΦ and  his  intense  application   rendered  large  supplies  of 
nourishment  absolutely  necessary  to  recruit  his  exhausted  spirits. 
The  fact  is,έΑΦ this   Great  Man  had  found  out,   that  Animal 
and  Intellectual  Vigour*  are  much  more   entirely  de^mdent 
upon  each  other, έΑΦ than  is  commonly  understood  ; έΑΦ especially, 
in  those  constitutions,   whose  digestive  and  chylopoetic  organs 
are  capricious  and  easily  put  out  of  tune,  or  absorb  the  "  ┬σa- 
bulum  vita^'  indolently  and  imperfectly, έΑΦ with  such,  it  is  only 
now  and  then,  that  the  "  sensorium  commun^^  vibrates   with 
the  full  tone  of  Accurately  considerative,  or  creative  energy. 
Thus  does  the  Health  always,έΑΦ and   very  often  the  Life 

as  in  FR71N6,  produjes  nearly  the  samecbaoges  ;  a&  the  heat  is  suffi- 
cient to  evaporate  the  water,  anct  to  induce  a  degree  of  scorching. 

"  But  when  water  is  the  medium  through  which  heat  is  applied 

as  in  Boiling,  Stewing  and  Baking,  the  effects  are  somewhat  differ- 
ent, as  the  heat  never  exceeds  212o,  which  is  not  sufficient  to  com- 
mence the  process  of  browning  or  decomposition,  and  the  soluble 
constituents  are  removed,  by  being  dissolved  in  the  water,  forming 
soup  or  broth  ;  or,  if  the  direct  contact  of  the  water  be  prevented,  they 
are  dissolved  in  the  juices  of  the  meat,  and  separate  in  the  form  of 
Gravy." 

Vide  Supplement  to  Encyelop.  Brit.  Edin.  vol.  iv.  p.  344,  the  Article 
"  Food,"  to  which  we  refer  our  reader  as  the  most  scientific  paper  on 
the  subject  that  we  have  seen. 

* "  Health,  Beauty,  Strength  and  Spirits,  and  I  mi┬τ^ht  add  all  the 
faculties  of  the  Mind,  depend  upon  the  Organs  of  the  Body;  when 
these  are  in  good  order,  the  thinking  part   is  most  alert    and  active 
the  contrary  when  they  are  disturbed  or  diseased." έΑΦ Dr.  Cadogah  on 
JVursing  ChUdren- 


έΨι  fw-fc^  έΑλ^r^-┬╗ 


of  lovftIid8,:i┬╗Kl  those  \vho  have  vr^ak  aod  iDfirin  Stomachs, 
depend  upon  the  care  and  skill  of  the  Cook.έΑΦ Our  Forefathers 
were  so  sensible  of  tbisj-^ihoi  in  days  of  Yore,-έΑΦ no  roan  of 
consequence  thought  of  making  a  day's  journey  without  takiog 
his  "  M AGISTER  Coquorum"  with  him. 

The  rarity  of  this  talent  in  a  high  degree έΑΦ is  ao  well  under- 
stood, that  besides  very  considerable  pecuniary  compensation, 
bis  Majesty's  first  and  second  Cooks*  are  now  Esquires  by 
tbejr  office ; έΑΦ we  have  every  reason  to  suppose  they  were  per- 
sons of  equal  dignity  heretofore. 

[n  Dr.  Pegge's  "  Forme  of  Cwry,"  we  read,  that  when 
Cardinal  Otto,  the  Pope's  Legate,  was  at  Oxford,  A.  D.  Id48, 
hit)  brother  officiated  .as  ''  Maoistbr  Coquina." 

This  im^portant  post  has  always  been  held  as  a  sitoMioo  of 
high  trust  and  confidence  ;  and  the  '*  Magnus  Coquus,"  An- 
glic^, the  Ma┬╗Ur  KUchener^  has,  time  immemorial,  been  an 
Officer  of  considerable  dignity,  in  the  palaces  of  Princes. 

The  Cook  in  Plautus  (Psewdol)  is  called  έΑλ'  Hominwnser- 
valorem,^*  the  preserver  of  mankind  ;  and  by  Mbrcibr  '*  une 
Medecin  qui  guerU  radicalement  deux  maladies  niorteUes  ;  la 
Faim  et  la  Soify 

The  Norman  Conqueror  William  bestowed  .several  por- 
tions of  Land  on  these  highly  favoured  domestics,  the  *'  Co- 
quorum  pRAEPosiTUs,"  and  **  Coquus  Regius," έΑΦ a  Manor 
was  bestowed  on  Robert  Argyllon  the  "  Grand  Qukux,"  to 
be  hejd  by  the  following  service.  See  that  venerable  Record, 
the  Doomsday  Book, 

*'  Addington έΑΦ Co.  Surrey. 

*'  Robert  Argy lion  holdeth  one  carucate  of  Land  in  Adding- 
ton in  the  County  of  Surrey,  by  the  service  of  making  one  mess 
in  an  earthen  pot  in  the  kitchen  of  our  Lord  the  King,  on  the 
day  of  his  coronation,  called  De  la  Groute,^*  i.  e.  a  kind  of 
plum  porridge,  or  Watergruel  wiih  Plums  in  it.  This  dis-h  is 
still  served  up  a't  the  Royal  Table,  at  Coronations,  by  the  Lord 
of  the  said  Manor  of  Addiogton. 

At  the  Coronation  of  King  George  IV.  Court  of  Claims, 
July  \%  1820, 

"*  έΑλ<  We  have  some  good  families  in  England  of  the  name  of  Cook 
or  Cokt.  1  know  not  what  they  may  think  ;  but  we  may  depend  up- 
on it,  they  ail  originally  sprang  from  real  and  professional  Cooks  ; 
and  they  need  not  be  ashamed  of  their  extraction,  any  more  than  the 
BuiUrs,  FarkerSf  ^. έΑΦ Pegge,  Forme  of  Cury, 


50  INTRODUCTION. 

**  Tbe  petition  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  tvhicb 
was  presented  by  Sir  G.  Naylor,  claiming  to  perform  the  ser- 
vice of  presenting  a  di^h  of  de  la  Groute  to  tiie  Kino  at  the 
banquet,  was  considered  by  the  Court,  and  decided  to  be  al- 
lowed." 

A  good  Dinner  is  one  of  the  greatest  enjoyments  of  human 
life  ; έΑΦ and  as  the^practire  of  Cookery  is  attended  with  so  ma- 
ny discouraging  difficulties,*  so  many  disgusting  and  disagree- 
able circumstances,  and  even  dangers.  We  ought  to  have  some 
regard  for  those  who  encounter  them,  to  procure  us  pleasure, 
and  to  reward  their  attention,  by  rendering  their  situation  every 
way  as  comfortable  and  agreeable  as  we  can.  Mere  money  is 
a  very  inadequate  compensation  to  a  complete  Cook  ;---fae 
who  has  preached  Integrity  to  those  in  the  Kitchen, έΑΦ (see  - 
**  Advice  to  Cooksy*)  may  be  permitted  to  recommend  Ldberal" 
ity  to  those  in  the  Parlour ; έΑΦ they  are  indeed  the  sources  of 
each  other. 

Depend   upon   it,  '*  True  Self-Love  and  Social έΑΦ are  the , 
same  ;*'  *'  Do  as  you  would  be  done  by  ;'*    give  those  you  are 
obliged  to  trust,  every  inducement  to  be  honest, έΑΦ and   uo 
temptation  to  play  tricks. 

When  you  consider  that  a  good  servant  eatsf  no  more  than 

^  *  It  is  said,  there  are  gsTKir  chancer  against  even  the  most  timplt 
dish  being  presented  to  the  Mouth  in  absolute  perfection  ;  for  instance 
A  Leg  or  muttov. 
Ist. έΑΦ The  Mutton  must  be  good, 
2d. έΑΦ Most  have  been  kept  a  good  time. 
8d.->-Must  be  roasted  at  a  good  fire. 
4th. έΑΦ By  a  good  Cook. 
6th. έΑΦ Who  must  be  in  good  temper, 
6tb. έΑΦ ^With  all  this  felicitous  combination  you  mu8^faave  good  luck, 

and 
7th. έΑΦ Good  Appetite. έΑΦ The  Meat,  and  the  Mouths  which  are  to  eat 
it  must  be  ready  for  each  other  at  the  same  moment. 

t  To  g^uard  against  '<  la  gourmandise\  of  the  second  table,  "  pro- 
vide each  of  your  servants  with  a  large  pair  of  spectacles  of  the  high- 
est magnifying  power,  and  never  permit  them  to  sU  down  to  any  meal 
without  wearing  them  ;  they  are  as  necessary  and  as  useful  in  a  Kitch* 
en  as  Pots  and  Kettles :  they  will  make  a  Lark  look  as  large  as  a 
FowL^  a  Goose  as  big  as  a  Swan,  a  Leg  of  Mutton  as  large  as  a  Hind 
Quarter  of  Beef ;  a  twopenny  loaf  as  large  as  a  quartern  ;"  and  as 
Philosophers  assure  you  that  Pain  even  is  only  imaginary,  we  may 
Justly  believe  the  same  of  Hunger.  Thus,  if  a  scruant  who  eats  no 
more  than  one  pound  of  f09d^  im^gines^  by  the  aid  of  these  glasses, 


INTRODUCTION.  21 

a  bad  ODe, έΑΦ how  much  waste  is  occasiootfd  by  provisions  be* 
ing  dressed  in  a  slovenly  and  un^kilfu)  manner έΑΦ and  bow  mufh 
a  good  Cook  (to  whom  the  conduct  of  the  Kiicbeu  is  confi- 
ded) can  save  you  by  careful  management έΑΦ no  Housekeeper 
will  hardly  deem  it  an  unwise  speculation, έΑΦ it  is  certainly  to 
amiable  experiment, έΑΦ to  invite  the  Honesty  and  InduUry  of 
domestics,  by  setting  them  an  example  of  Uhercdity^T-tX  least, 
show  them,  that "  according  to  their  Pains,  mil  be  their  Gatng.^ 
But  trust  not  your  servants  with  the  secret  of  their  own 
strength  ; έΑΦ Importance  of  any  kind,  being  whai  human  frailty 
is  least  able  to  bisar. 

Avoid  all  approaches  towards  Familiarity,  which  to  a  proT- 
erb  is  accompanied  by  Contempt,  and  soon  breaks  the  neck  of 
obedience; 

Servants  are  more  likely  to  be  praised  into  good  conductέΑΦ 
than  scolded  out  of  bad έΑΦ always  commend  them  when  they 
do  right έΑΦ ^to  cherish  the  desire  of  pleasing  in  them,  you  must 
show  them  that  you  are  pleased  : έΑΦ 

**  Be  to  their  fuilu  a  little  blind. 
And  to  their  virtoet  very  kind." 

By  such  conduct έΑΦ ordinary  Servants,  will  often  be  conver- 
ted into  Good  ones  iέΑΦfew  so  hardentd,  as  not  to  feel  graiifi' 
ed  when  they  are  kindly  and  liberally  treated^ 

It  is  a  good  Maxim  to  select  Survanta  not  younger  than 
THIRTY, έΑΦ before  that  age,  however  comfortable  you  may  eo- 
ideavour  to  make  them,  their  want  of  experience,  and  the  Hope 
of  something  still  better έΑΦ prevents  their  being  satisfied  with 
their  present  state.  After  they  have  had  the  benefit  of  expe* 
Hence,  if  they  are  tolerably  comfortable,  they  will  endeavour  to 
deserve  the  smiles  of  even  a  moderately  kind  master,  for  Fear 
they  may  change  for  the  worse. 

Life  may  indeed  be  very  fairly  divided  into  the  seasons  of 
Hope  and  Fear.  Tn  Youth,  we  hope  every  thing  may  be 
jright ; έΑΦ in  Age  we  fear  every  thing  will  be  wrong. 

Do  not  discharge  a  good  servant  for  a  slight  offenceέΑΦ*  > 

**  Bear  and  Ibrliear,  thus  preaebed  dte  stoic  laicei. 
And  in  two  words,  inclttde  the  sense  of  |>ages┬τ**~P<(pe. 


that  he  has  eaten  Jhree  pounds,  his  hunger  will  be  as  Ailly  satisfiedέΑΦ 
and  the  Addition  to  your  Optician's  Account,  will  soon  be  overpaid 
by  the  Subtraction  from  your  Butcher's  and  Baker's. έΑΦ Life  of  Col, 
Hanger. 


22  tNTRODUCTIOK. 

Human  nature  is  the  same  in  all  stations  ;-<-if  you 
can  convince  your  Seryants,  that  you    have  a  generous    aud, 
considerate  regard  for  their  Health  and  Comfort έΑΦ why  should 
you  iroagioe  that  they  will  be  insensible  to  the  good  they  re- 
ceive. 

Impose  no  commands  but  what  are  reasonable, έΑΦ nor  reprove 
but  with  justice  and  temper έΑΦ the  best  yvay  to  ensure  which, 
is έΑΦ never  to  Lecture  thentj  till  at  least  one  day,  after  they  have 
offended  you. 

If  they  have  any  particular  hardships  to  endure  in  your  ser- 
vice,έΑΦ let  them  see  that  you  are  concerned  for  the  necessity  of 
imposing  it. 

Jf  they  are  Sick, έΑΦ remember  you  are  their  Patron  as  well 
as  their  Master, έΑΦ not  only  remit  their  labour,  but  give  them 
all  the  assistance  of  Food,  Physic,  and  every  comfort  ia 
your  power.  Tender  assiduity  about  an  Invalid  is  half  a  Cure^ 
έΑΦ it  is  a  balsam  to  the  Mind,  which  has  a  most  powerful  eflfect 
on  the  Body, έΑΦ soothes  th&  sharpest  Paius,  and  strengthens  be- 
yond the  richest  Cordial. 

The  following  estimate  of  the  Expenses  of  a  Female 
Servant έΑΦ was  sent  to  us  by  an  experienced  Housekeeper. 

They  are  often  expected  to  find  their  own  Tea  and  Sugar, 

έΑΦ which  with  sober  servants  is  the  most  comfortable  meal  they 

have έΑΦ and  will  require 

┬μ.    s.    d. 

Half  a  pound  of  Tea,  per  mon^A          )  ┬╗.*┬τ┬τ┬τ*..,┬τ,  a  in  a 
Ditto        do.         Sugar,  per  week,       3 
έΑλ    4  pair  of  Shoes,  per  annum                                       0  18  0 
2  pair  of  black  worsted  Stockings                             0    4  0 
2  pair  of  white  Cotton         Do.                                    0     5  0 
2  Gowns                                                                            1   10  0 
6  AprortsέΑΦ ^  check,  2  white                                          0  10  6 
6  Caps                                                                              0  10  6 
A  BoDnet,.a  Shawl  or  Cloak,  Pattens,  &c.  Ribands, 
Handkerchiefs,  Pins,  Needles,  Treads,  Thicnbles, 
Scissars  and  other  working  tools, έΑΦ Stays,  Stay- 
tape,  and  Buckram,  he.  Uc,                                     2    0  0 

┬μ9:8:0 

Besides  these,  she  has  to  make  a  shift  and  buy  pt;tticQats, 
pocket<*,  and  many  other  articles. 

We  appeal  to  the  neatest  managing  and  most  economical 
Housewife^  to  inform  us  how  this  can  be  done έΑΦ and  how  much 
a  poor  Girl  will  have  remaining  to  place  to  her  account  in  ,the 
Savings  Bank, έΑΦ for  help .  in  Sickness, έΑΦ when  Out  of  PUwe, 


INTRODUCTION.  23 

έΑΦ and  for  her  support  m  Old  Age.  Here  is  the  souroe,  of  tb┬τ 
swarms  of  distressed  Females  which  we  daily  meetiaoor 
etreets. 

Ye  J  who  think  that  to  protect  and  encourage  Virtue, έΑΦ is 
the  best  preventative  from  Vicey-^ve  your  female  wrvanit 
liberal  wages. 

'*  Charity  should  begin  at  home/* έΑΦ "  PreTentioo  is  pref- 
erable to  Cure,"  but  I  have  no  objection  to  see  your  names  or* 
Dsmeotiag  the  List  of  Subscribers  to  Foaodling  Hospitals, 
and  Female  PeDitentiaries.* 

'<  To  say  nothiog  of  the  deleterious  ?apours  and  pestilential 
exhalations  of  the  charcoal,  which  soon  undermine  the  health 
of  the  heartiest,  the  glare  of  a  scorching  fire,  and  the  smoke  so 
baneful  to  the  eyes  and  the  complexion,  are  continual  and  in* 
editable  dangers  ;┬τr^nd  a  Cook  must  live  in  the  midst  of  them, 
as  a  Soldier  on  the  field  of  battle,  surrounded  by  bullets,  and 
bombs,  and  Congbevb's  rockets ; έΑΦ with  this  only  difference, 
that  for  the  first,  every  day  is  a  fighting  day,  that  her  warfare 
is  almost  always  without  glory,  and  most  praiseworthy  achieve- 
nrents  pass   not  only  without  reward,  but  frequently  without 
even  Thanks ; έΑΦ for  the  most  consummate  Cook  is,  alas  !    sel- 
dom noticed  by  the  master,  or  heard  of  by  the  guests  ;    who, 
while  they  are  eagerly  devouring  his  Turtle,  and  drinking  his  . 
Wine, έΑΦ care  very  little  who  dressed  the  one,  or  sent  the  oUier." 
έΑΦ Almanach  des  Gourmcmds. 

*'  Much  real  reformation  might  be  effected,  and  most  grateful  ser- 
vices obtaiTted,  if  Families  ^hich  consist  wholly  of  Females,  would 
take  servants  recommended  from  the  Magdalen έΑΦ PenitevtiartέΑΦ' 
or  GiTARDiAir-^who  seek  to  be  restored  to  virtuous  society. 

"  Female  servants  who  pursue  an  honest  course έΑΦ have  to  travel  in 
their  peculiar  orbit,  through  a  more  powerfully  resisting  medium  than 
perhaps  any  other  class  of  people  in  civilized  Life, έΑΦ they  should  be 
treated  with  something  like  Christian  kindness^-for  want  of  this έΑΦ a 
fault  which  might  at  the  time  have  been  easily  amended έΑΦ has  become 
the  source  of  interminable  sorrow.*' 

"  By  the  clemency  and  benevolent  interference  of  two  mistresses 
known  to  the  writer,  two  servants  have  become  happy  wives,  who, 
had  they  been  in  some  situations,  would  have  been  literally  Outcasts.*'  * 

A  most  laudable  Socisty  for  the  Encouragement  of  Female 
Servants,  by  a  gratuitous  Registry,  and  by  Rewards,  was  instituted 
in  1813. 

Plans  of  which  may  be  had  gratis  at  the  Society's  House,  No.  10, 
Hat;on  Garden.  The  above,  is  an  extract  from  the  Rev.  H.  G.  Wat- 
K-iNs's  Hints  to  Heads  of  Families έΑΦ a  work  well  deserving  their  at* 
tentive  consideration. 


24  INTRODUCTION. 

Tbi9  observation  applies  especially  to  the  Second  Cook,  or 
first  Kitchen  Maidj  in  Wrge  families,  who  have  by  far  the 
hardest  place  in  the  bouse,  and  are  worse  paid,  and  truly  verify 
the  old  adage,  **  the  more  work,  the  less  idag-es.'*έΑΦ -If  there  is 
any  thing  right,  the  Cook  has  the  praiseέΑΦ when  there  is  any 
thing  wrong,  as  surely  the  Kitchen  Maid  has  ihe  blame. έΑΦ Be 
it  known,  then,  to  honest  John  But.l,  that  this  humble  domes- 
tic, is  expected  by  the  Cook  to  take  the  entire  management  of 
all  Roasts  and  Boils,  Fish  and  Vegetables έΑΦ i.  e.  tlie  principal 
part  of  an  EnglitJiman's  dinner. 

The  Master,  who  wishes  to  enjoy  the  rare  luxury  of  a  ta- 
ble regularly  well  served  in  the  best  style,  must  treat  his  Cook 
as  his  friend, έΑΦ watch  over  her  Health*  with  the  tenderest 


*  The  greatest  care  should  be  taken  by  theVnan  of  fashion,  t)iat 
his  Cook's  health  be  preserved  :^-one  hundredth  part  of  the  attention 
usually  bestowed  on  his  dog,  or  his  horse^  will  suffice  to  regulate  her 
animal  system. 

**  Cleanliness,  and  a  proper  ventilation  to  carry  off  smoke  and 
steam,  should  be  particularly  attended  to  in  the  construction  of  a 
kitchen  ; έΑΦ ^the  grand  seene  of  action,  the  fire-place,  should  be  placed 
where  it  may  receive  plenty  of  light : έΑΦ hitherto  the  contrary  has  pre- 
vailed, and  the  poor  Cook  is  continually  basted  with  her  own  perspi- 
ration."έΑΦ jj.  C.  Jun. 

"  The  most  experienced  artists  in  Cookery  cannot  be  certain  of 
their  work,  without  tasting  : έΑΦ they  must  be  incessantly  Tasting. έΑΦ The 
Spoon  of  a  good  Cook,  is  continually  passing  from  the  Stewpan  to 
his  Tongue  ; έΑΦ nothing,  but  frequent  Tasting  his  Sauces,  Bagouts,&c. 
can  discover  to  him  what  progress  .hey  have  made,  or  enable  him  to 
season  a  Soup  with  any  certainty  of  -success : έΑΦ his  Palate,  therefore, 
must  be  in  the  highest  state  of  excitability,  that  the  least  fault  may  be 
perceived  in  an  instant. 

<<  But,  alas  !  the  constant  empyreuraatic  fumes  of  the  stoves,  the 
necessijty  of  frequent  drinking,  and  often  of  bad  beer,  to  moisten  a 
parched  throat  ; έΑΦ in  short,  every  thing  around  him  conspires  quickly 
to  vitiate  the  organs  of  taste  ;  the  palate  becomes  blunted,  its  quick- 
ness of  feeling  and  delicacy,  on-  which  the  sensibility  of  the  organs 
of  taste  depends,  grows  daily  more  obtuse,  and  in  a  short  time  the 
gustatory  nerves  become  quite  unexcitable. 

"  If  you  find  your  Cook  neglect  his  business,έΑΦ that  his  Ra- 
gouts are  too  highly  spiced  or  salted,  and  his  cookery  has  too  much 
of  the  "  haut  go&ty" έΑΦ yon  may  be  sure  that  his  Index  of  Taste  wants 
regulating έΑΦ his  Palate  has  lost  its  sensibility, έΑΦ and  it  is  high  time  to 
c  all  in  the  i^ssistance  of  the  Apothecary. 

**  Parger  souvent%  is  the  grand  Maxim  in  all  Kitchens  where  le 
MaKtre  d'H6tel  has  any  regard  to  the  reputation  of  bis  table.      Let 


INTRODUCTION.  25 

eare,  and  especially,  be  sure  her  Taste  doi|^  not  tufier,  from 
her  Stomach  being  deranged  by  Bilioos  Attacks. 

Besides  understanding  the  managemeni  of  the  Spit, έΑΦ tht 
Stefvpan, έΑΦ and  the  Rolling  Pin,  a  Complete  Cook  must  know 
how  to  go  to  Market,  write  legibly,  and  keep  Accounts  accu- 
rately. In  well  regulated  PnFate  families,  the  most  convenient 
custom  seems  to  be,  that  the  Cook  keep  a  house-book,  contain- 
ing an  account  pf  the  miscellaneous  articles  she  purchasesέΑΦ 
and  the  fiutcher\  Baker's,  Butterman*s,  Oreen┬╗grocer's,  Fish- 
monger's, Milkman's  and  Washing  bills  are  brought  in  every 
Monday  ;  these  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Cook  to  examine,  (^fora 
she  presents  them  to  her  employer  erery  Tuesday  morning 
to  be  discharged. 

The  ^idvantage  of  paying  such  bills  weekly,  is  incalculable ; 
among  others έΑΦ the  constant  check  it  affords  against  any  excess 
beyond  the  sum  allotted  for  defraying  them,  and  the  opportu* 
nUy  It  gives  of  correcting  increase  of  expense  in  one  week  by 
a  prudent  retrenchment  in  the  next.  '*  If  you  would  live  even 
Vfitb  (he  world,  calculate  your  expenses  at  half  your  IncomeέΑΦ > 
if  you  would  grow  rich,  at  one-lMrd,^^ έΑΦ See  Bacon's  Emuom, 

See  *'  Ten  JVinutes^  Advice  on  the  Management  of  In* 
cameJ**  Dr.  Truster's  **  DomestiQ  Management^  or  the  Art 
of  managing  a  Family ;"  and  by  the  same  author,  another 


Bonnes  Hommes  de  BoucheέΑΦmhmit  to  the  operation,  without  a  rour- 
mur;-έΑΦ to  bind  otberi ,  it  should  be  made  the  first  condition  in  hmng 
them.  Those  who  refuse,έΑΦ prove  they  were  not  born  to  become  Mas- 
ters of  their  Art ;έΑΦ and  their  indifference  to  Fame,  will  rank  them, 
as  they  deserve,  aroong^  those  stupid  Slaves,  who  pass  their  lives  in  as 
much  obscurity  as  their  own  stcwpans."  .     ,      ^ 

To  the    preceding  observations   from  the  "  Mmanaeh  dt$   Gour- 
fnandsy'*  we  may  add,  that  the  Mouthieian  wiU  have   a  still  better 
chance  of  success,  if  he  can  prevail  on  his  master  to  observe  the  same 
regime  which  he  orders  for  his  Cook,έΑΦ or,  instead  of  endeavouring  to 
awaken  an  idle  Appetite,  by  reading  the  Index  to  a  Cookery  Book,  or 
an  additional  use  of  the  Peppcr-Box  and  Salt  CellarέΑΦ rather  seek   it 
from  Abstinence,  or  ExerciseέΑΦ the  philosophical  Govrmanil  wiU  con- 
sider that  the  edge  of  our  Appetite  is  generally  keen,  in  proportion  to 
the  activity  of  our  other  habitsέΑΦ let  him  attentively  peruse  our  "  Pep- 
tic Precepts,"  &c.  which  briefly  explain  the  Art  of   refreshing  the 
Gustatory  Nerves  and  of  Invigorating  the  whole  System* έΑΦ See,  m  the 
following  Chapter  on  Invitations  to  Dinner,  A  Recipe  to  make  For- 
TV  Peristaltic  Persuaders. 
3 


26  INTRODUCTION. 

^irork  well  worth  the  purchase  of  Young  Housekeepers,  called 
"  The  Honours  of  the  Table,  or  the  Art  of  Carving ;"  the 
latter  has  been  copied  in  a  mutilated  state  into  almost  every 
Cookery  Book  that  has  been  made  during  the  last  thirty  years. 

The  most  complete  Housekeeper's  Account  Book  is 
Poole's  published  at  No.  48,  Fetter  Lane.  J t  is  an  excellent 
plan  to  have  a  table  of  rules  for  regulating  the  ordinary  expen- 
ses of  the  family,  in  order  to  check  any  innovation  or  excess 
which  otherwise  might  be  introduced  unawares,  and  de- 
range the  proposed  distribution  of  the  annual  revenue. 

It  is  almost  impossible  for  a  Cook  to  attend  to  the  business 
of  the  Kitchen  with  any  certainty  of  perfection  if  employed 
in  other  household  concerns.  It  is  a  service  of  such  impor* 
tance,  and  so  difficult  to  perform  even  tolerably  well,  that  it  is 
sufficient  to  engross  the  entire  attention  of  one  person. 

This  is  a  Maxim  which  is  neither  understood  nor  admired 
in  some  families,  where  the  Cook  is  expected  to  be  a  house 
servant  also,  and  Coals  are  meted  out  to  her  by  the  Quart,  and 
Butter  by  the  Ounce,  &c.  Nevertheless,  these  ignorant  and 
unreasonable  masters  and  mistresses,  are  surprised,  if  most  of 
their  Ragouts,  and  Sauces,  &c.  are  spoiled  ;  and  the  Roasts 
either  burnt  up,  or  not  half  done ;  but  bow  can  it  be  otherwise, 
έΑΦ if  the  Cook  is  obliged  to  be  the  slave  of  the  Bell,*  Sx.  as 
well  as  of  the  Spit  ? 

'*  If  we  take  a  review  of  the  Qualifications  that  are  indis- 


*  At  MsBLiN'g  MuhatiicaX  Museum  there  was  a  contrivance  by 
the  Bell,  which  morecL  an  Index  to  a  corresjModing  word  in  the  Kit<;lv*- 
eu.    For  instance^ 

Lay  the  Cloth. 

Coals. 

Candles. 

Dinner. 

Tea. 

Hot  Water. 

Supper. 

Housemaid. 

Cook,&c. 

Before  you  ring  the  Bell  set  this  Index  to  what  jrou  want έΑΦ the  Ser- 
vant will  then  know  what  you  wish  for έΑΦ and  thus  much  time  and 
trouble  will  be  saved  to  both  Master  aad  servant. 


INTRODUCTION.  27 

peDsable  in  that  bigbly  estimable  domettic,  u  conplete  Gooo 
Cook,  we  shall  find  that  very  few  deserve  that  118010."+ 

**  The  majority  of  those  who  set  up  for  Professors  of  this 
Art,  are  of  mean  ability,  selfish,  and  pilfering  every  thing  th┬τy 
can  :  others  are  indolent  and  insolent.  Those  who  reaUy  un- 
derstand their  Business,  (which  are  by  far  the  smallest  nombor) 
are  too  often,  either  rldiculoosly  saucy,  or  insatiably  thirsty  :┬τέΑΦ 
in  a  word,  a  good  subject  of  this  class,  is  a  vara  avis  indeed." 

**  God  sends  Meat*' έΑΦ who  sends  Cooks  1%  the  proverb  has 
long  saved  us  the  trouble  of  guessing.  Vide  Alnumach  des 
Gourmands, 

Of  what  value  then  is  not  this  Book  ?έΑΦ which  will  reoder 
every  person  of  commou  sense έΑΦ a  good  Cook,  in  as  little  time 
as  they  can  read  it  through  attentively. 

If  the  Masters  and  Mistresses  of  Families  will  sometimes 
condeacend  to  make  an  amusement  of  this  Art,  they  will  eg* 
cape  a  number  of  disappointments,  &c.  which  those  who  will 
not,  must  suffer,  to  the  detriment  of  both  their  Health  and 
their  Fortune. 

The  author  wishes  he  had  more  time  to  devote  to  the  sub- 
ject An  ingenious  Chemist,  and  an  inteiligent  Cook,  might 
form  a  very  complete  work,  by  taking  for  their  text  Dr. 
Gboroe  Pbarson's  admirably  arranged  catalogues  of  Food^ 
Drink,  and  Seasoning  :  this  most  comprehensive  abstract  of 
this  subject  we  have  ever  seen,  was  printed  for  his  Lectures  00 
Therapeutics,  &c.  which  the  author  attended  in  1801. 

t "  She  mast  be  qaic|(  and  strong  of  sight ;  her  hearing  most  acute, 
that  she  may  be  sensible  when  the  contents  ^f  her  vessels  bubble,  al- 
ihongh  they  be  closely  covered,  and  that  she  may  be  alarmed  before 
the  pot  boils  over  :  her  aaditory  nerve  ought  to  discriminate  /when 
several  saucepans  are  in  operation  at  the  same  time)  the  simmering  of 
one,  the  ebullition  of  another,  and  the  full  toned  warbling  of  a  third. 

**  It  is  imperiously  requisite  that  her  organ  of  smell  be  highly  sus- 
ceptible of  the  various  effluvia ,  that  her  nose  may  distinguish  the  per- 
fection of  aromatic  ingrediepts,  and  that  in  animal  tubstanees  it  shall 
evince  a  suspicious  accuracy  between  tenderness  and  putrefaction  : 
above  all,  her  olfactories  should  be  tremblmg  alive  to  mastiness  and 
empyreuma. 

''It  is  from  the  exquisite  seqBibility  of  her  palate,  that  we  admire 
and  judge  of  the  Cook  '^  from  the  alUance  betw┬τea  the  olfactory  and 
sapid  organs  it  will  be  seen,  that  their  perfection  is  indispensable/'έΑΦ- 
^.  C.  Jun, 

X\  facetious  Gourmand  suggests  that  the  old  story  of  "lighting  a 
Candle  to  the  Devti"  probably  arose  from  this  adage έΑΦ and  was  an 
pffering  presented  to  his  InCeraal  Majesty,  by  some  Epicure  who^  was 
i┬τ  want  of  a  Cook. 


215  INTRODUCTION. 

I  did  not  presume  to  offer  any  observations  of  my  own,  till 
I  bad  read  all  that  I  could  find  written  on  the  subject,  and  sub- 
mitted (with  no  small  pains,)  to  a  patient  and  attentive  consid- 
eration of  every  preceding  work,  relating  to  culinary  concerns, 
that  I  could  meet  with. 

These  Books  rary  very  little  from  each  other,  except  in  the 
preface έΑΦ they  are  ' 

**  Like  in  all  else  ts  one  Egg^  to  anoUier  :" 

'* ab  U720, disce  omnegy*  cutting  and  pasting  seem  to  have  be ea 
much  oftener  employed  than  the  Pen  and  Ink :  any  one  who 
has  occasion  to  refer  to  two  or  three  of  them,  will  find  the  Re-. 
ceipts  almost  always  **  verbatim  et  literatim  ;"  equally  unin- 
telligible to  those  who  are  ignorant, έΑΦ and  useless  to  those  Vvho 
are  acquainted  with  the  business  of  the  Kitchen. 

The  following  Works  are  in  my  own  Library  ;  others  my 
friends  have  favoured  me  with  the  perusal  of,  amounting  in  all 

10  not  less  than  250  Volumes. 

[Dr.  K.  here  enumerates  the  names  of  the  volumes ;  the  repetition 
will  be  of  little  use  to  the  American  public] 

During  the  Herculean  labour  of  my  tedious  progress  through 
these  books-*many  of  which  did  not  afford  the  germ  of  a  sin- 
gle ideaέΑΦ I  have  often  wished  that  ibe  authors  of  them  had 
been  satisfied  with  giving  us  the  results  of  their  own  practice 
and  experienceέΑΦ -instead  of  idly  perpetuating  the  errors,  prej- 
udices, and  plagiarisms,  of  their  predecessors, έΑΦ the  strange, 
unaccountable,  and  uselessly  extravagant  farragos,  and  hetero- 
geneous compositions,  which  fiU  their  pages,  are  combinations 
no  rational  being  would  ever  think  of  either  dressing  or  eating, 
and  without  ascertaintbg  the  practicability  of  preparing  the  re- 
oeipts,  and  their  fitness  (or  food  when  done,  they  should  never 
have  ventured  to  recommend  them  to  others  ;έΑΦ *the  reader  of 
them  will  often  put  the  same  qucRre,  as  Jeremy^  in  Congreve's 
comedy  of  "  Love  for  Love,^  when  Valentine  observes, 
"  There's  a  page  doubled  down  in  Epictetus,  that  is  a  feast  for 
an  Emperor. έΑΦ Jer.  Was  Epictetus  a  real  Cook, έΑΦ or  did  he 
only  write  Receipts?" 

Half  of  these  books  are  made  up  with  pages  cut  out  of  ob- 
solete works,  such  as  the  "  Choice  Manual  of  Secrets,"  the 
**  true  Gentlewoman^ s  Delight^**  &c.  of  as  much  use,  in  this 
Age  of  rejinementy  as  the  following  curious  passage  from 
"  The  Accomplislied  Lady's  Bich  Closet  of  Rarities,  or  In^ 
genious  GenilewomaWs    DeUghtful  Companiony*    which    ( 


INTRODUCTION*  29 

bave  inserted  in  a  note*  to  give  the  reader  a  notion  of  the  bar- 
baroiLs  manners  of  the  16Ui  century,  with  the  addition  of  the 
Arts  of  the  Confectioner, έΑΦ the  Brewer, έΑΦ the  Baker, έΑΦ the  Dts* 
tiller, έΑΦ the  Qardener, έΑΦ the  Clearstarcber, έΑΦ ^aod  the  Perfumer, 
έΑΦ and  how.  to  make  pickles έΑΦ PufF-Paste έΑΦ Butter  and  Black- 
ing, &c. έΑΦ together  with  all  my  Lady  Bountiful's  aofereign 
remedies  for  an  inward  Bruise, έΑΦ and  oth^  eirer-failing  Nos- 
trums,^έΑΦDr.  Killemquick's  wonder-working  Essence,  and  faU 
lible  Elixir  which  cures  all  manner  of  incurable  maladies  di* 
rectly  minute έΑΦ Mrs.  Notable's  instructions  how  to  make  soft 
Pomatum έΑΦ that  will  soon  make  more  hair  grow  upon  thy 
Head,  "  than  Dobbin  thy  thiti  horse,  bath  upon  his  tail.^'έΑΦ 
and  many  others  equally  invaluable  !  !  ! έΑΦ the  proper  appella- 
tion for  which,  would  be  *'  a  dangerous  budgef  of  fuigar  er┬τ 
TOTS,"  concluding  with  a  bundle  of  extracts  from  "  XM  Gard- 
ener's Calendar"  and  "  the  Publican's  Daily  Companion." 

Thomas  Carter,  in  the  preface  to  bis  "  Cily  and  Country 
Cooky"  says,  '*What  I  have  published,  is  almost  the  only  book, 
one  or  two  excepted,  which  has  of  late  years  come  into  the 
world,  that  has  been  the  result  of  the  author's  own  practice 
and  experience:  for  though  very  few  eminent  practical 
Cooks  have  erer  cared  to  publish  what  they  knew  of  the  art, 
yet  they  have  been  prevailed  on,  for  a  small  prefnium  from  a 

*  "  A  gentlewomaR  being  at  table,  abroad  or  at  home,  must  observe 
to  keep  her  body  straighf>  and  ieaa  not  hf  any  means  with  her  el- 
bows, nor  by  ravenous  gesture  discover  a  voracious  appetite ;  talk 
sot  when  you  have  meat  in  your  mouib  ;  and  do  not  smack  like  a 
Pigf  nor  venture  to  eat  Spoonmeai  so  hot  that  the  tears  stand  in  your 
Eyes,  which  is  as  unseemly  as  the  GerUhwoman  who  pretended  to 
have  as  little  a  Siomaeh  as  she  bad  a  Mouth,  and  therefore  would  aoi 
swallow  her  P^at  by  spoonful ;  but  took  them  one  by  one  and  cut 
them  in  two  before  she  would  eat  them.  It  is  very  uncomely  to  drink 
so  large  a  draughty  that  your  Breath  is  almost  gone έΑΦ and  are  forced 
to  blow  strong^ly  to  recover  yourself έΑΦ ^throwing  down  your  liquor  as 
into  a  Funnel  is  an  action  fitter  for  a  Juggler  than  a  C^fUlewoman ', 
thus  much  for  your  Observations  in  general,  if  I  am  defective  as  to 
particulars,  your  own  prudefice,  dtseretiony  and  curious  obiervationt 
will  supply^ 

"In  Carving  at  your  own  Toi/e,  distribute  the  best  pieces  first,  and 
it  will  appear  very  comely  and  decent  td  use  a  Fmrk  ;  so  touch  ne 
piece  oi  Meat  without  it," 

"  J^em.  The  English  are  indebted  to  Tom  Cory  at  for  introducing 
THE  Fork,  for  whichlhey  called  him  ri*rc(^er,"έΑΦ See  \iiA  OrudiUeSf 
vol.  1. 


30  IMTRODUCTIOir. 

Bookseller,  to  lend  tbeir  DAmes  to  perfonnanceg  io  this  art,  os- 
worthy  their  owaiog/^ 

Robert  May,  \a  the  iotroduction  to  hia  *'  JiccomptUhed 
Cook^**  1665,  aaysy  **  To  all  honest  and  wdUinUnding  persons 
ofmyprofession^  and  others^  this  book  cannot  but  be  acceptable^ 
as  it  plainly  and  profitably  discovers  ike  mystery  of  the  whole 
art ;  for  which,  though  I  may  be  envied  by  some,  that  only 
έΨ╝alue  their  private  tnterests  above  posterity  and  the  public 
good  ;  yet,  (be  adds,)  Qed  in  my  own  cooscieoce  would  not 
permit  me  to  bury  these,  my  experiences,  with  my  silver  hairs, 
in  the  ^rave." 

Those  high  and  mighty  Masters  and  Mistresses  of  the  Ali- 
mentary Art,  who  are  commonly  called  '^  Profess"  Cooks έΑΦ are 
eaid  to  be  very  jealous  and  q^ysterious  beings  : έΑΦ ^and  that  if  in 
a  long  Kfe  of  laborious  Stove  work,  they  have  found  out  a  few 
useful  secrets έΑΦ they  seldom  impart  to  the  public  the  fruits  of 
their  experience,  but  sooner  than  divulge  their  discoveries  for 
the  benefit  and  comfort  of  their  fellow  creatures έΑΦ often  run  the 
risk  of  a  reprimand  from  their  employer?,-έΑΦ ajid  will  sooner 
spoil  a  good  Dinner,  than  suffer  their  fellow -servants  (o  see  how 
they  dress  it  I  1  ! 

The  silly  selEshoess  of  short-sighted  mortals,  is  never  more 
extremely  absurd έΑΦ than  in  their  un pro 6 table  parsimouy, έΑΦ of 
what  is  of  no  use  to  them,  but  would  be  of  actual  value  to  oth- 
ers,έΑΦ* who  in  return  would  willingly  repay  them  tenfold  : έΑΦ 
however,  I  hope  |  may  .be  permitlt^d  to  quote  in  defence  of 
these  culinary  Professors έΑΦ a  couple  of  lines  of  a  favourite  old 
song : 

''  If  youUl  search  the  wocid  round,  each  profession  you'll  find, 
Hath  some  snug  little  secrets,  which  the  Mystery*  they  calL 

*  "  Almost  all  Arts  and  Sciences  are  more  or  less  encumbered  with 
vulgar  errors  and  prejudices,  which  avarice  and  ignorance  have  un- 
fortunately sufficient  influence  to  preserve,  by  help  (or  hindrance)  of 
mysteriouS)  undefinable,  and  not  seldom  unintelligible,  technical 
terms έΑΦ Anglice,  nicknamesέΑΦ which,  instead  of  enlightening  the  sub- 
ject it  is  professedly  pretended  they  were  intended  to  illuminate, 
serve  but  to  shroud  it  in  almost  impenetrable  obscarity :  and  in  gene- 
ral, so  extravagantly  fond  are  the  professors  of  an  art  of  keeping  up 
all  the  pomp,  circumstance,  and  mystery,  of  it,  and  of  preserving  the 
accumulated  prejudices  of  ages  past  undiminished,  that  one  might 
fairly  suppose  th<Ae  who  have  had  the  courage  and  perseverance  to 
overcome  these  obstacles,  and  penetrate  the  veil  of  science,  were  de- 
lighted with  placing  difficulties  io  the  way  of  those  who  may  attempt 


d  that 

*a  read- 

1^,   that 

^adatim 

|4hey  so 

,tff|E|^  ;  and, 

^^έΑλihe  ill- 

^┬τc  page 


82  iNTabDUCTioir. 

them, έΑΦ and  their  "  rule  of  T%┬τm6"  is  80  extremely  indefinite,* 
έΑΦ that  if  the  same  dish  be  diessed  by  different  persons,  it  will 
generally  be  so  different,  that  nobody  would  imagine  they  had 
worked  from  the  same  directions,  which  will  assist  a  person  who 
has  not  served  a  regular  apprenticeship  in  the  Kitchen ;  no 
more  than  reading  "  Robinson  CrvMoe^*  would  enable  a  Sail- 
er to  steer  safely  from  England  to  India. 

It  is  astonishing  how  cheap  Cookery  Books  are  held  by 
pra(^tical  Cooks :  when  I  applied  to  an  experienced  artist  to 
recommend  me  some  books  that  wotild  give  me  a  notion  of  the 
first  principles  and  rudiments  of  Cookery,  he  replied  with  a 
smile έΑΦ "  You  may  read  Don  Quixote  or  Peregrine  Pickle^ 
they  are  both  very  good  books.'' 

Careless  expressions  in  Cookery  are  the  more  surprising,  as 
the  Confectioner  is  regularly  attentive,  in  the  description  of 
his  preparations,  to  give  the  exact  quantities,  though  his  basi* 
ness,  compared  to  Cookery,  is  as  unimportant,  as  the  Ornamen- 
tal is  inferior  to  the^  Useful. 

The  maker  of  Blancmange,  Custards,  &c.,  and  the  endless 
and  Useless  collection  of  pretty  playthings  for  the  Palate,  (of 
first  and  second  childhood,  for  the  vigour  of  manhood  seeketh 
not  to  be  sucking  Sugar-candy,  or  sipping  Turtle,)  is  scrupu- 
lously exact,  even  to  a  grain,  in  his  ingredients  ;  whilst  Cooks 
are  unintelligibly  indefinite,  although  they  are  entrusted  with 
the  administration  of  our  food,  upon  the  propef*  quality  and 
preparation  of  which^  all  our  powers  of  Body  and  Mind  de^ 
pend; έΑΦ their  Energy^  being  invariably^  in  the  ratio,  of  the 
performance  of  the  restorative  process,  i.  e.  the  quantity,  qua!* 
ity,  and  perfect  digestion  of  what  we  eat  and  drink  ;  and  a 
sufficient  portion  of  sound  Sleep,  *'  the  balm  of  hurt  minds, 
chief  nourisher  in  life's  feast,  great  Nature's  second  course." 

Unless  the  Stomach  be  in  good  humour,  every  part  of  the 
machinery  of  life  must  vibrate  with  languor  ; έΑΦ can  we  then 
be  too  attentive  to  its  adjustment ! !  I 

*  "  lu  the  present  language  of  Cookery,  there  has  been  a  woeAil 
departure  from  the  simplicity,  of  owe  ancestor┬τ,8Uch  a  farrago  of  unap- 
propriate  and  unmeaning  terms,  many  corrupted  from  the  French, 
others  disguised  from  the  Italian,  some  misapplied  from  the  Gernuw, 
while  many  area  disgrace  to  the  English.  What  can  any  person 
suppose  to* be  the  meaning  of  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb  in  epigram j  unless 
it  were  a  poor  dish,  for  a  Pennyless  Poet  ?  Aspect  of  fishy  would  ap- 
pear calculated  for  an  Astrologer;  and  shoulder  of  mutton  surpriaed^ 
designed  for  a  Shcep-Stealer/'έΑΦ .-1  C.  Jtin, 


INVlTATlpNS  TO  DINNER. 


In  "  the  Affairs  of  the  MoiUhT  the  strictost  pancluality  is  in- 
dispensable ; έΑΦ the  Gastronomer  ought  to  be  as  accurate  aii 
observer  of  Tifne,  as  the  Astronomfr.  The  least  Delay  pro- 
duces  fatal  and  irreparabh  Misfortunes, 

Almost  all  other  Ceremoniea  and  Civil  Duties  may  be  put 
otTfor  several  hours  without  much  iDConvenience,  and  all,  may 
be  postponed  without  absolute  Danger. έΑΦ A  little  Delay,  qaay 
try  the  patience  of  those  who  are  waiting;  but  the  act  itself 
will  be  equally  perfect  and  equally  valid. έΑΦ Procrastination 
sometimes  is  rather  advantageous  than  y. prejudicial.  It  gives 
l\me  for  Reflection έΑΦ and  may  prevent  our  taking  a  step  which 
wonld  have  made  us  miserable  for  Life  ;  the  delay  of  a  Couri- 
er has  prevented  the  conclusion  of  a  Convention,  the  signing 
of  which  might  have  occasioned  the  ruin  of  a  Nation. 

If  from  Affairs  the  most  important,  we  descend  to  our  Pleas- 
ures  and  Amusements,  we  shall  find  new  arguments  in  sup- 
port of  onr  assertions.  The  putting  off  a  Rendezvous,  or  a 
Ball,  &c.  will  make  them  the  more  delightful.  To  hope,  is  to 
enjoy, 

"  Man  never  iSj  but  always  to  be,  blett." 

The  anticipation  of  Pleasure  warms  our  imaginalioa,  and  keeps 
those  feelings  alive,  which  possession  too  often  extinguishes. 

**  'Tis  Expecit^ion  only  makes  us  blest ; 
'^  Enjoyment  disappoints  us  at  the  beit." 

Dr.  Johnson  has  most  sagaciously  said  :  "  Such  is  the  state 
of  Life,  that  none  are  Happy  but  by  the  anticipation  of  Change: 
the  Change  itself  is  nothing  :  when  we  have  made  it,  the  next 
Wish,  is  immediately  to  change  again." 

However  singular  our  assertions  may  have  at  first  appeared 
to  those  who  have  not  considered  the  subject,  we  hope  by  this 
time  we  have  made  converts  of  our  readers,  and  convinced  the 
^'  Amateurs  de  B&nne  Chere  "  of  the  truth  and  importance  of 
our  remarks;  and  that  they  will  remember,  that  Dinner  is  the 
only  act  of  the  day  which  cannot  he  put  offvrilh  impunity y  for 
even  five  minutes. 

In  a  well  regulated  family,  all  the  Clocks  and  Watches 
should  agree ;  on  this  depends  the  fate  of  the  Dinner ;  what 
yoould  be  agreeable  to  the  Stomacht    (^nd  restorative  to  the 


54  INVITAT  IONS    TO  DINNER. 

System^  if  served  at  two  o  clock, έΑΦ will  be  uneatable  and  i7┬╗┬τ 
digestible  at  a  quarter  past. 

The  d  ning  room  ebouid  be  furnished  wilh  a  good  going 
Clock  ; έΑΦ the  space  ever  the  Kitchen  fire-place  with  another, 
vibrating  in  unison  with  the  former,  so  placed,  that  the  Cook 
may  keep  one  Eye  on  the  Clock,  and  the  other  oo  the  Spit, 
&c.  She  will  calculate  to  a  minute  the  time  required  to  roast 
a  large  Capon  or  a  little  Lark, έΑΦ and  is  equally  attentive  to  the 
degree  of  heat  of  her  Stove,  and  the  time  her  Sauce  remains  oa 
it έΑΦ when  to  withdraw  the  Bakings  from  the  oven,  the  Roast 
from  the  spit,  and  the  Stew  from  the  pan. 

With  all  our  Love  of  punctuality,  the  first  consideration 
tnust  still  be,  that  the  Dinner,  "  be  well  done  when  His  done^^ 

It  is  a  common  fault  with  Cooks  who  are  oveT'amrioiut 
about  Time έΑΦ to  overdress  every ^  thing έΑΦ the  Guest  bad  belter 
wait  than  the  Dinner έΑΦ a  little  delay  will  improve  their  appe┬τ 
tite* ; έΑΦ but  if  the  Dinner  waits  for  the  Guests,  it  will  be  dete- 
riorated every  minute ; έΑΦ therefore  the  Host  who  wishes  to  en- 
tertain his  friends  with  food  perfectly  well  dressed,  must,  while 
he  most  earnestly  endeavours  to  impress  on  their  minds  the 
importance  of  being  punctual  to  the  appointed  hour, έΑΦ will  still 
allow  his  Cook έΑΦ her  quarter  of  aa  bourns  grace. 

The  old  Adage  that  <' the  Eye  is  often  bigger  than  the 
Belly,''  is  often  verified  by  the  ridiculous  vanity  of  those,  who 
wish  to  make  an  appearance  above  their  fortune έΑΦ nothing  can 
be  more  ruinous  of  real  comfort  than  the  too  common  custom 
of  setting  out  a  table,  with  a  parade  and  a  profusion,  unsuited 
not  only  to  the  circumstances  of  the  Host,  but  to  the  number  of 
the  guests  ; έΑΦ or  more  fatal  to  true  Hospitality,  than  the  mul- 
tiplicity of  dishes  which  luxury  has  made  fashionable  at  the  ta- 

*  ^*'  1  y  a  trois  sortes  d'appetits  ;  celtii  que  i'on  eprouve  a  jeun  \ 
sensation  imperleuse  qui  ne  chicane  point  sur  le  mets,  et  qui  vous  fak 
veuir  l*6au  a  la  b┬τuche  a  Taspect  d'un  bon  rag^out.  Jele  compare au 
desir  iropetueux  d'un  jeune  homme  qui  voit  sourire  la  beaute  qu'il 
aime. έΑΦ Lt  second  appetit  est  ceini  que  i*on  ressent  lorsque,  s'etant  mi^ 
a  table  sans  faim,  on  a  deja  gouted'un  plat  succulent,  et  qui  a  consa- 
ere  le  proverbe,  Vappeiit  vient  en  mangeant.  Je  rassimile  a  I'etat 
d'un  mari  dont  le  coeur  tiede  s'echauffe  aux  premieres  caresses  de  sa 
femme. έΑΦ Le  treitieme  appetit  est  celui  qu'  excite  un  mets  deliceux  qui 
parait  a  la  fin  d'un  repas,  lorsque,  I'estomac  gatisfait,  Thomme  sobre 
allait  quitter  la  table  sans  reg^ret.  Celui-la  trouve  ion  embleme  dans 
les  feux  du  libertinage,  qui  quoique  iUu┬τoireS)  font  naitre  cependant 
quelques  plasirs  reels.  La  conooissance  de  cette  metaphysique  de 
I'appetit  doit  gaider  le  Cuisinier  habile  dans  la  composition  du  pre* 
anicr,  4u  second,  et  dutroisieme  service .έΑΦCot(r┬τ  Gcutronomiqne* 


IKVltATIONS  TO  DINNER.  35 

έΑλ 

bl┬τ8  of  the  Great,  the  WealthyέΑΦ ^and  the  OsteDtatious,έΑΦ who 
are  often,  neither  great  nor  wealthy. 

Such  excessive  preparation,  instead  of  being  a  compliment 
to  our  Quests,  is  nothing  better  than  an  indirect  offence  ;έΑλ  it  is  a 
tacit  insinuation,  that  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  provide  such 
delicacies έΑΦ to  bribe  the  depravity  of  their  palates,  when  we  de┬τ 
sire  the  pleasure  of  their  company έΑΦ and  that  Society  in  ┬μog┬τ 
land,  now,  must  be  purchased  at  the  same  price  Swivt  told 
PoPB,fae  was  obliged  to  pay  for  it  in  Ireland*-^*!  should  hard- 
ly prevail  to  find  one  Visitor,  if  I  were  not  able  to  hire  him 
with  a  bottle  of  Wine." έΑΦ Vide  Swift^s  Letters  to  Popb. 

When  twice  as  much  cooking  is  undertaken  as  there  are 
Servants,  or  conveniences  in  the  Kitchen  to  do.  it  properlyέΑΦ 
dishes  must  be  dressed  long  before  the  dinner  hour,  and  stand 
by  spoiling έΑΦ the  poor  Cook  loses  her  credit,  and  the  poor 
guests  get  indigestions έΑΦ Why  prepare  for  eight  or  ten  Friends, 
more  than  sufficient  for  twenty  or  thirty  Visitors :  '*  Enough 
is  as  good a┬╗  a  Feast f^^  And  a  prudent  provider,  who  takes 
measure  of  the  Appetites,  instead  of  the  Eyes  of  his  Guests, 
may  entertain  his  Friends,-i^tbree  times  as  often,  and  ten  times 
as  welU 

It  is  your  second  courses έΑΦ ridiculous  variety  of  Wines, 
LiQUERS,  Ices*,  Desserts,  &c, έΑΦ which  are  served  up  to  feed 
the  ┬μye-^t^  overcome  the  Stomach  and  paralyze  Digestion^ 
and  seduce  *'  children  of  a  larger  growth*'  to  sacrifice  tha 
health  and  comfort  of  several  days, έΑΦ for  the  Baby^pleasure  of 
tickling  their  tongue  for  a  few  minutes,  with  Trifles  and  Cus- 
tards 1 1 !  &c.  &c. 

^^  Indiobstion  will  sometimes  overtake  the  most  experienc- 
ed Epicure  ;^when  the  gustatory  nerves  are  in  good  humour. 
Hunger  and  Savoury  Viands  will  sometimes  seduce  the  Tongue 
of  a  "  Grand  Gourmand^'*  to  betray  the  interests  of  his  Stom- 
ach, in  spite  of  bis  Brains. 

On  such  an  unfortunate  occasion,  when  the  Stomach  sends 
forth  eructant  signals  of  distress,  for  help,  the  Peristaltic  Per* 
suaders  are  as  agreeable  and  effectual  assistance  as  can  be  offer- 
ed ;  and  for  delicate  Constitutions,  and  those  that  are  impair- 
ed  by  Age  or  lotemperance,  are  a  valuable  Panacea. 

They  derive  and  deserve  this  name,  from  the  peculiar  mild- 
ness of  their  operation.     One  or  two  very  gently  increase  the 

*  SwilUag  cold  Soda  fFaUr  immediately  after  eating  a  hearty  din- 
ner, is  another  yery  unwholesome  custom. 


36  INVITATIONS  TO  DINVIR. 

action  of  tbe  principal  viscera,  help  them  to  do  their  work  a 
little  faster,  and  enable  tbe  Stomach  to  serve  with  an  ejectment 
whatever  offends  it,  and  move  it  into  tbe  Bowels. 

Thus  Indigestion  is  easily  and  speedily  removed,-έΑΦ ^/>pett7e 
restored, έΑΦ (the  mouths  of  the  absorbing  vessels  being  cleansed) 
Nutrition  is  facilitated,  and  Strength  of  Body,  and  Energy  of 
Miiid,  are  the  happy  results.'* έΑΦ See  "  Peptic  Prbcepts," 
from  which  we  extract  the  following  prescriptionέΑΦ 

To  make  Forty  Peristaltic  Persuaders.     Take έΑΦ 

Turkey  Rhubarb,  finely  pulverised,έΑΦ two  dracbms. 
Syrup,  (by  weight)  one  dracbm. 
Oil  of  Caraway,  -ten  drops  (mioims.) 
t       Maae  into  Pills,,  each   of  which  will  contain   TTiree    Graint  of 
Rhubarb. 

"  The  Dose  of  the  Persuaders  roust  be  adapted  to  tbe 
constutional  peculiarity  of  the  Patient έΑΦ when  you  wish  to  ac- 
celerate or  augment  the  Alvine  Exoneration έΑΦ take  twoέΑΦ three 
έΑΦor  more,  according  to  the  effect  you  desire  to  produce έΑΦ Tico 
Pilis  will  do  as  much  for  one  person,  as  fioe  or  six  will  for 
another  ;  they  will  generally  very  regularly  perforin  what  yo┬τ 
wish  to-day,^ έΑΦ without  interfering  with  what  you  hope  will  bap- 
pen  to-morrow  ; έΑΦ and  are  therefore  as  convenient  an  argument 
against  Constipation  as  any  we  are  acquainted  with. 

'*  The  most  convenient  opportunity  to  introduce  them  to  the 
Stomach, έΑΦ is  early  in  the  morning,  when  it  is  unoccupied,  and 
has  no  particular  business  of  Digestion,  &c.  to  attend  to έΑΦ i.  e.  έΑλ 
at  least  half  an  hour  before  breakfast.     Physic  must  never  in- 
terrupt the  Stomach,  when  it  isenga^d  in  digesting  Food. 

**  From  two  to  four  Persuaders,  will  generally  produce  one 
additional  motion,  within  twelve  hours.  They  may  be  taken 
at  any  time  by  the  most  delicate  Females,  whose  constitutions 
are  so  often  distressed  by  constipation έΑΦ aud  destroyed  by  the 
drastic  purgatives  they  take  to  relieve  it." 

Tbe  Clothf  should  be  laid  in  the  Parlour,  and  all  the  para- 
phernalia of  the  dinner  table  completely  arranged  at  least  an 
hour  before  dinner  time. 

t  Le  Grand. Somm^lier,  or  Chief  Butler,  in  former  times  was  ex 
pected  to  be  especially  accomplished  in  the  Art  of  folding  Table  Lin- 
enέΑΦ so  as  to  lay  his  napkins  in  different  forms  every  day έΑΦ tfoese 
transformations  aure  particularly  described  in  Uosk*s  Instructions  for 
the  Officers  of  the  Mouth.  /^  To  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a 
Cockle-Shell  Double ."έΑΦ<<  In  the  form  ofέΑΦ Hen  and  Chickens'*έΑΦ 
"  shape  of  two  capons  in  a  Pye" έΑΦ or  "  like  a  Dog  with  a  Collar  about 
his  Neck" έΑΦ and  many  others  equally  whimsical. 


iNViTATlONS  TO  DINNER-  37 

^he  CooVs  labour  wiJl  be  lost,  if  tbe  Parlour  table  be  not 
ready  for  actioo,  aud  ibe  Eaters  ready  for  ibe  Eatables^-wbich 
tbe least  delay  will  irreparably  injure: έΑΦ therefore  the  Gour- 
mand ^ill  be  puDctaal  for  tbe  sake  of  gratifying  bis  ruling 
passion; έΑΦ the  Invalid,  to  afoid  tbe  danger  of  encountering 
an  indigestion  bom  eating  iU-^dressed  food  ;  and  the  Rational 
Cpicuite,  who  happily  attends  the  Banquet  with  **  men┬╗  sana 
in  corpote  9cmo,'ViU  keep  tbe  time  not  only  for  these  strong 
reasons,  but  that  he  may  not  lose  the  advantage  of  being  in- 
trodaoed  to  the  other  Guests.  He  considers  not  only  what  i┬╗ 
on  the  Table, έΑΦ but  Who  are  around  it; έΑΦ his  principal  induce- 
ment to  leave  his  own  Fire-side,  is  the  charm  of  agreeable  and 
instructive  Society,  and  tbe  opportunity  of  making  connex* 
ions,  which  may  augment  the  interest  and  enjoyment  ofexis┬τ 
tence. 

Ills  the  most  pleasing  part  of  the  Duty  of  the  Master  of 
Ike  Feastj  (especially  when  the  Guests  are  not  very  nume- 
rous, j:)  to  take  advantage  of  these  moments  to  introduce  them 
to  one  another,  uaming  them  individually  in  an  audible  voice, 
and  adroitly  laying  hold  of  thotud  ties  of  acquaintanceship  or 
profession  which  may  exist  between  them. 

This-  will  much  augment  the  pleasures  of  tbe  Festive 
Board. έΑΦ to  which  it  is  indeed  as  indispensable  a  Prelude  as  an 
Overture  to  an  Opera  ;  and  the  Host  will  thus  acquire  an  ad- 
ditional claim  to  the  gratitude  of  his  Guests.  We  urge  this 
point  more  strongly,  because,  from  want  of  attention  to  it,  we 
have  seen  more  than  once,  persons  whom  many  kindred  ties 
"would  have  drawn  closely  together,  pass  ap  entire  day  without 
opening  their  lips  to  each  other,  because  they  were  mutually 
ignorant  of  each  other's  names,  professions  and  pursuits. 

To  put  an  end  at  once  to  all  GeriBmony  as  to  the  order  in 
vshich  the  Gtiests  are  to  sit,  it  will  save  much  time  and  trouble 
if  the  master  of  the  House  adopts  the  simple  and  elegant 
method  of  placing  the  name  of  each  Guest  in  the  plate  which  is 
intended   for  bim.     This  proceeding,  will  be  of  course  the 


t  '^Depuis  long'temps  le  nombre  des  6rftc┬τ8  ou  celui  des  Muses  a 
regie  les  dtners  aimables  ;  pass 6  ce  dernier  nombre  i)  n*y  a  plus  ni 
iotimite  in  conversation  gadrale"-┬╗Cour┬τ  Gastronomi^ut}* 

4 


38  INVITATIONS   TO   DINNER* 

result  of  coQsideratioD,  aod  the  Host  will  place  tboso  together 
who  be  thioks  will  harmoaise  best┬τ 

Le  Journal  des  Dames  ioforms  us,  tbfit  in  several  fashiona- 
ble houses  ia  Paris,  a  new  arrangement  bas  been  introduced  in 
placing  the  company  at  a  Dinner  table. 

The  Ladies  first  take  their  places,  leaving  intervals  for  the 
Gentlemen  ;  after  being  seated,  each  is  desired  to  call  on  a 
gentleman  to  sit  beside  her ;  and  thus  the  Lady  of  the  House 
is  relieved  from  all  embarrassment  of  etiquette,  as  to  rank  and 
pretensions,  &c. 

But  without  doubt,  says  the  Jpurnalist,  this  method  has  its 
inconveniences. 

*^  It  may  happen  that  a  bashful  beauty  dare  not  name  the  ob- 
ject of  her  secret  wishes,  and  an  acute  observer  may  determine^ 
from  a  single  glance,  that  the  elected  is  dot  always  the  chosen,** 

If  the  Party  is  large,  the  Founders  of  the  Feast  should  sit  in 
the  middle  of  the  Table,  instead  of  at  each  end, έΑΦ thus  they 
will  enjoy  the  pleasure  of  attending  equally  to  all  their  Friende 
έΑΦ and  being  in  some  degcee  relieved  from  the  occupation  of 
Carving έΑΦ will  have  an  opportunity  of  administering  all  those 
little  attentions  which  contribute  so  much  to  the  comfort  of 
their  Guests. 

If  the  Guests  hsve  any  respect  f┬τf  their  Host, έΑΦ or  prefer  a 
well-dressed  dinner  to  one  that  is  spoiled,  instead  of  coming 
half  an  hour  after,  they  will  take  care  to  make  their  appearance 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  time  appointed. 

The  operations  of  the  Cook  are  governed  by  the  Clock, έΑΦ 
the  moment  the  Roasts,  S^c,  are  ready^  they  mtist  go  to  table, 
if  they  are  to  be  ealen  in  perfection. 

An  invitation  to  come  at  Five  o'clock,  seems  to  be  general- 
ly, understood  to  mean  Six ;   Five  precisely,  AaZf past  Jive; 
and  NOT  LATER  THAN  FivB,  (so  that  Dinner  may  be  on  the 
.table  within  ten  minutes  after,  allowing  this  for  the  variation  of 
watches,)  Five  o'clock  exactly. 

Be  it  known  to  all  Loyal  Subjects  of  the  Empire  of  Good' 
living,  that  the  Committee  op  Taste  have  unanimously  re- 
solved, "  an  Invitation  to  ETA  BETA  PI  must  be  in 
"  Winting,  and  sent  at  least  ten  days  before  the  Banquet έΑΦ and 
must  be  answered  in  Writings  (as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is 
received) έΑΦ within  Twenty-four  hours  at  latest^* έΑΦ especially 
if  it  be  not  accepted έΑΦ then,  in  addition   to  the  usual  compli- 


t( 
ti 


INVITATIONS    TO  DINNER.  39 

mentary  expressions  of  thanks,  &c.  the  best  poesible  reasons 
must  be  assigned  for  the  non-acceptance,  as  a  particular  pre- 
engagement,  or  severe  indisposition,  Ssc. 

Nothing  can  be  more  disobliging  tbao  a  refusal  \vhich  is  not 
grounded  on  some  very  strong  and  unavoidable  cause,  except 
not  coming  at  the  appointed  hour ;  '^  according  to  the  Lavrs  of 
Conviviality,  a  certificate  from  a  SheriflTs  Officer,  a  Doctor, 
**  or  an  Undertaker,  are  the  only  Pleas  which  are  admissible. 
'*  The  duties  which  Invitation  imposes,  do  not  fall  only  oo  the 
"  Persons  invited,  but  like  all  other  Social  duties,  are  rectpro- 
┬τ  cal. 

''  As  he  who  has  accepted  an  Invitation  cannot  disengage 
^himself  from  it ;  the  Master  of  the  Feast  cannot  put  off  the 
**  entertainment  on  any  pretence  whatever.  Urgent  Business, 
"  έΑΦ Sickness, έΑΦ not  even  Death  itself  can  dispense  with  the 
'^  obWgalion  which  be  is  under  of  giving  the  Entertainment  for 
which  he  has  sent  out  invitations,  which  have  been  accepted  ; 
έΑΦ for  in  the  extreme  cases  of  compulsory  Absence,  or  Death, . 
his  place  may  be  filled  by  bis  Friend  or  Executor.^'-** 
Vide  Le  Mamiel  des  Amphitryons,  PariSf  1808,  et  Covnr9  G(U' 
tronomiquey  1809 ; έΑΦ to  which  the  reader  is  referred  for  further 
Instructions. 

Lt  is  the  least  punuhment  that  a  blundering  III-  Bred  Boobjf 
cajKreceive,  who  comes  half  an  hour  after  the  time  he  was  hid- 
den, to  find  the  Soup  removed,  and  the  Fish  cold  :  moreover, 
forsuch  an  OfFenre,  let  him  also  be  mulcted  in  a  pecuniary 
Penalty,  to  be  applied  to  the  fund  for  the  ben r fit  of 
DECAYED  C00K3.  This  is  the  least  punishment  that  can  be  in- 
flicted on  one  whose  silence,  or  violation  of  an  engagement^ 
tends  to  paralyze  an  entertainment,  and  to  draw  his  friend  into 
useless  expense. 

BoiLBAu,  the  French  satirist,  has  a  shrewd  observation  on 
this  subject,  *<  I  have  always  been  punctual  at  the  hour  of 
*'  Dinner,''  says  the  Bard,  '*  for  I  knew,  that  all  those  whom  I 
*'  kept  waiting  at  that  provoking  interval,  would  employ  those 
'*  unpleasant  moments,  to  sum  up  all  vAy  faults.  Boileau  is 
έΑλ'  indeed  a  man  of  Genius έΑΦ a  very  honest  man ; έΑΦ but  that 
''dilatory  and  procrastinating  way  he  has  got  into,  would  mar 
"  the  virtues  of  an  Angel," 


44  INVITATIONS  TO   DINNER.^ 

There  are  some,  who  seldom  keep  an  appointment; έΑΦ wa 
can  assure  them  tbey  as  seldom  ''  'scape  without  whipping" έΑΦ 
and  exciting  those  murmurs  which  inevitably  proceed  from  tha 
best  regulated  Stomachs, έΑΦ when  they  are  empty  and  impatient 
to  be  fijicd. 

The  mo3t  amiable  Animals,  when  hungry,,  become  iJl-tem* 
pered,έΑΦ- our  best  friends  will  employ  the  time  tbey  are  kept 
waiting,  in  recollecting  and  repeating  any  real  faults  we  have, 
έΑΦ and  attributing  to  us  a  thousand  imaginary  ones^ 

I//- ^rec^  Beings,  who  indulge  their  own  caprice,  regardless- 
bow  they  wound  the  feelings  of  others,  if  they  possess  brilliant 
ruid  useful  talents, έΑΦ may  occasionally  be  endured  as  convenient 
Tools  ;έΑΦ 'but  deceive  themselves  sadly,  if  they  possess  all  tha 
Wisdom,  and  all  the  Wit  in  the  World, έΑΦ they  fancy  they  can 
ever  be  esteemed  as  Friends. 

Manners  make  tub  Man. 

Good  Manners  have  often  made  the  Fortune  of  many,  who 
have  had  nothing  else  to  recommend  them : έΑΦ HI  Manners^ 
have  as  often  marxed  the  hopes,  of  those  who  have  had  every 
thing  else  to  advance  them.  έΑλ 

These  regulations  may  appear  a  little  rigorous  to  those 
phlegmatic  philosophers, 

"  Who,  past  all  pleasures ,  damn  the  joys  of  sense, 
"  With  rcv'rend  duUiess,  and  grave  impotence  ;'* 

and  are  incapableof  comprehending  the  fmportance  (especially 
when  many  are  invited)  of  a  truly  hospitable  Entertainment : 
but  Genuine  Connoisseurs  in  the  Science  of  Good  Cheer,  will 
vote  us  thanks  for  our  endeavours  to  initiate  well-disposed 
Amateurs, 

CARVING. 

Ceremony  does  not  in  any  thing,  more  commonly  and  com- 
pletely triumph  over  Comfort,  than  in  the  administration  of 
"  the  Honours  of  the  Table,^^ 

Those  who  serveout  the  Loaves  and  Fishes  seldom  seem  to 
understand,  that  he  is  the  best.  Carver έΑΦ who  fills  the 
plates  of  the  greatest  number  of  Guests,  in  the  least  portion  o/ 
time. 


rWlTATIpNS    TO  DIKNER.  45 

To  effect  this,^{^  iht  Plates  and  send  them  round έΑΦ ^instead 
of  asking  each  Individual  if  tbey  choose  Soup έΑΦ Fish,  &c  or 
what  particular  part  they  prefer έΑΦ for  as  they  cannot  all  be 
Choosers έΑΦ you  will  thus  escape  roakiog  any  invidious  distioc* 
tions. 

A  dexferoos  Carver^  (especially  if  he  be  possessed  with 
that  determined  enemy  to  Ceremony  and  Sance,  a  keen  appe┬τ 
the,)  will  help  half  a  dozen  people  in  half  the  time,  cfne  of 
your  would-be-thought  polite  folks  wastes  in  making  civil  faces, 
&c.  to  a  single  Guest. 

It  would  save  a  great  deal  of  Time  <S*c.  if  Pocltry,  espec- 
ially large  Turkeys  and  Geese έΑΦ were  sent  to  table  ready  cut 
up.     (No,  530*.) 

Fish  that  is  fried,  should  be  previously  divided  into  such 
pon\ons  as  are  fit  to  help  at  table έΑΦ see  (No.  145.) 

A  prudent  Carver  will  cut  fair  ;X  ^^^  observe  an  equitable 
distribution  of  the  Dainties,  he  is  serving  out'^-and  regulate  his 
heipsi,  by  the  proportion  which  his  dish  bears  to  the  number  he 
has  to  divide  it  amongst, έΑΦ taking  into  this  reckoning,  the  quan^ 
iwn  of  Appetite έΑΦ the  several  guests  are  presumed  to  possess^ 

**  Study  their  Genius,  caprices,  Gout έΑΦ 
"  They,  in  return,  may  haply  study  you  :  % 

f'  Some  wish  a  Pinion,  some  prefer  a  Leg, 
┬τ  Some  for  a  merry-thought  or  Side-bone  beg  : 


t  In  Bays  of  Yore  "  Le  Grand  Ecuyer  Tranchant,  *  or  the  Master 
Carver,  was  the  next  Officer  of  the  Mouth  in  rank  to  the  <*  Maitre 
d'Hdtcl"  and  the  technical  terms  of  his  Art,  were  as  singular  as  any 
of  those  which  ornament "  Grose's  Classical  Slang  Dictionary,"  or 
"  the  Gipsies  Gibberish ; "  the  only  one  of  these  old  phrases  now  in 
common  use  Is,  <<  cut  up  the  Turkey," έΑΦ ^we  are  no  longer  desired  to 
"  disfigure  a  Peacock  " έΑΦ "unbrace a  Duck  " έΑΦ "  unlace  a  Cohey  " έΑΦ 
''tame  a  Crab" έΑΦ "tire  an  Eoe"έΑΦ and  "  spoil  the  Her,"  fcc.^See 
rutrueiions  for  the  Officers  of  the  Movih,  by  Ross. 

X  Those  in  the  Parlour,  should  recollect  the  importance  of  setting 
a  good  example  to  their  friends  at  the  second  table. έΑΦ If  they  cut 
Bread f έΑΦ Mtai έΑΦ Cheese έΑΦ &c.  fairly έΑΦ it  will  go  twice  as  far  as  if  they 
hack  and  mangle  it έΑΦ as  if  they  had  not  half  so  much  consideration 
Cor  UiQse  in  the  Kitchen,  aa  a  good  Sportsman  has  for  his  Dogs. 


46  INVITATIONS    TO   DINNER. 

*'  The  wiogs  of  Fowls,  then  slices  of  the  round,έΑΦ 
"  The  trail  of  Woodcock,  of  Codfish  the  soand. 
*'  Let  strict  impartiality  preside έΑΦ 
"  Nor  freak,  nor  favour,  nor  affection  guide." 

From  the  Banquet. 

"  The  Guest  who  wishes  to  ensure  a  hearty  welcome,  and  ' 
frequent  invitation  to  the  board  of  hospitality,  may  calculate 
thai  the  "  easier  he  is  pleased  the  oftener  he  will  be  invited  ;" 
instead  of  unblushingly  demanding  of  the  fair  Hostess  that 
the  prime  "  tit  hit^^  of  every  dish  be  put  on  his  plate έΑΦ must 
receive,  (if  not  with  pleasure έΑΦ or  even  content)  with  the  live- 
liest expressions  of  thankfulness  whatever  is  presented  to  him, 
έΑΦ and  let  him  not  forget  to  praise  the  Cook,  and  the  same  shall 
be  reckoned  unto  him  even  as  the  praise  of  the  Mistress. 

The  Invalid  or  the  Epicure,  when  be  dioes  out,  to  save 
trouble  to  his  friends,  may  carry  With  him  a  portable  Maga- 
zine OF  Taste,  see  (No.  463.) 

**  If  he  dbes  not  like  his  fare,  he  may  console  himself  with 
the  redexion,  that  he  need  not  expose  his  Mouth  to  the  like 
mortification  again  ; έΑΦ Mercy  to  the  feelings  of  the  Mistress  of 
the  Mansion,  will  forbid  his  then  appearing  otherwise  than  ab- 
solutely delighted  with  it, έΑΦ nothwithstanding  it  may  be  his  ex- 
treme antipathy, 

*<  If  he  likes  it  ever  so  little,  he  will  find  occasion  to  con- 
gratulate himself  on  the  advantage  his  digestive  organs  will  de- 
rive from  his  making  a  moderate  dinner, έΑΦ and  consolation 
frohi  contemplating  the  double  relish  he  is  creating  for  the  fol- 
lowing meal,  and  anticipating  the  (to  him)  rare  and  delicious 
zest  of  (that  best  sauce)  good  appetite,  and  an  unrestrained  in- 
dulgence of  his  gormandizing  fancies  at  the  Chop-house  he 
frequ4┬╗ot8." 

**  Never  intrust  a  Cook-Teaser  with  the  important  office  of 
Carver, έΑΦ or  place  him  within  reach  of  a  Sauce-boat,  These 
Chop-house  Cormorants,  who 

"  Critique  your  wine,  and  analyze  your  meat, 
Yet  on  plain  pudding  deign  at  home  to  eat/' 

are,  generally,  tremendously  officious  in  serving  out  the  loaves 
and  fishes  of  other  people, έΑΦ for,  under  the  notion  of  appear- 
ing exquisitely  amiable έΑΦ and  killingly   agreeable  to  the  Guests 


INVITATIONS    TO  DINNER.  47 

-*-they  are  ever  on  the  watch  to  distribute  themselves έΑΦ the 
daiaties έΑΦ which  it  is  the  peculiar  part  of  the  Master  aod  Mis- 
tress to  serve  out,  aod  is  to  them  the  most  pleasant  part  of  the 
business  of  the  Banquet. έΑΦ the  pleasure  of  helping  their  friends 
is  the  gratification,  which  is  their  reward  for  the  trouble  they 
have  bad  in  preparing  the  Feast :  such  Gentry  are  the  terror  of 
all  good  Housewives; έΑΦ to  obtain  their  favourite  Cot έΑΦ they 
wiJJ  so  unmercifully  mangle  your  Joints, έΑΦ that  a  dainty  dog 
ivould  hardly  get  a  meal  from  them  after, έΑΦ which  managed  by 
thecoosiderative  hands  of  an  old  Housekeeper,  would  furnish 
a  decent  Dinner  for  a  large  Family." έΑΦ Vide  *<  Almanack  dea 
Gourmands.^*  * 

I  once  heard  a  gentle  hint  on  this  subject,  given  to  a  Blue- 
mould  fancier,  who  by  looking  too  long  at  a  Stilton  cheese, 
was  at  last  completely  overcome  by  his  Eye  exciting  his  Appe- 
tite, till  it  became  quite  ungovernable  and  unconscious  of  ev- 
ery thing  but  the  mity  objed  of  his  contemplation  ;  he  began 
to  pick  out  in  no  small  portions  the  primest  parts  his┬μye  could 
select  from  the  centre  of  the  Cheese. 

The  good-natured  Founder  of  the  Feast,  highly  amused  at 
the  Ecstacies  each  morsel  created  in  its  passage  over  the  palate 
of  the  enraptured  Gourmand,  thus  encouraged  the  perseverance 
of  his  Guest έΑΦ "  Cut  away,  my  dear  sir,  cut  away,  use  no  Cer- 
emony, I  pray :έΑΦ I  hope  you  will  pick  out  all  the  best  of  my 
Cheese έΑΦ thb  rind  and  Uie  botten  will  do  very  weU  for  viy 
Wife  and  Family  I  V 

Half  the  trouble  of  waiting  at  table  may  be  saved,  by 
giving  each  guest,  two  plates,  two  knives  and  forks,  two  pieces 
of  bread,  a  Rpoon,  a  wine  glass,  and  a  tumbler,  and  placing  the 
Wines  and  Sauces,  and  the  Magazine  op  Tavte,  (463,)  &c. 
as  a  Dormant,  in  the  centre  of  the  table  ;  one  neighbour  may 
then  help  another. 

Dinner  tables  are  seldom  sufficiently  lighted,  or  attended έΑΦ 
an  active  waiter  will  have  enough  to  do,  to  attend  upon  half  a 
dozen  active  Eaters έΑΦ there  should  be  half  as  many  Candles  as 
:there  are  Guests έΑΦ and  their  flame  be  about  18  inches  above  the 
table έΑΦ our  foolish  modern  pompous  Caodelabras,  seem  intend- 
ed to  illuminate  the  Ceiling,  rather  than  to  give  light  on  the 
Plates,  &c. 


i 


FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS,* 

έΨ▓HD   OTHEH 

SERVANTS. 


N.  B┬τ-R?94  A?  ^^^^''^^uSL^^^SSriS^  d^f"^^'^''^'^  fffnkenf^ 


Qv  your  fir9t  cpinipg  iptp  ┬τ  fonaily,  lp9P  pp  ^que  in  impi^diyita- 
1y  gpttiog  into  t|ie  gppd  ffv^pe^  of  ypqr  f^llQW-s^nraQttyT-ihff 
you  vj^j  learo  froni  thpn^  tb┬τ  cu┬╗^im  pf  tiie  Kj|p)^,  ap4  Mv 
Taripos  nite^  #ad  or49rs  of  the  Hpuse. 

Take  c^^,  to  be  oo  gpod  tanp9  wit)i  the  8#rT┬╗q|  fvhiO  w┬τ|i|f 
lit  tf^ble ; έΑΦ you  miiy  make  use  of  him  ^9  yoi|r  Ppnljf^i  ^  ii|┬╗ 
form  you  bow  ypur  work  bat  p)ef s^  jp  t)te  p^lppr,  fiD4  19 
his  feport  ypu  may  be  enabled  in  apipe  fpeasure  to  rectify  fioy 
Inistak^  :έΑΦ bpt  request  the  faToqr  pf  fm  iQ^srview  Vfi)k  Jf9f┬ξ^ 
M99ter  or  l^i^if^^a^^r- depend  as  liUU  q$  pp^ible,  qn  fccqnd* 
Aa92(f  opinionsέΑΦ judge  of  your  Eipplpyerr^  froip  yt^r  9^  pbr 
aprT^tioos,  and  their  bebayieur  to  3^-**Q0t  ffppi  apy  ifl(p  re* 
ports  from  the  other  servants,  who,  if  your  Master  or  Mistf^es  ip- 
advertently  drop  a  word  ip  your  pra^ έΑΦ wi)l  inmedia^ly  t^ko 
alarm,  and  fearing  your  being  more  in  faropr  than  thenutelf^ 
wiiJ  seldom  stick  at  trifles  to  prevent  it,  by  pr^teotiing  to  tik\% 
a  prodigious  liki┬╗g  to  you,  and  poisoning  yopf  miiul  ip  s^ch  ^ 
manner  as  to  desjtrpy  all  your  confidppca,  ^p.  ip  your  Employ* 
ers,  and  if  they  4o  not  imippdiatifly  succeed  in  WP'f yipg  ypB 
away-r^wili  take  carp  tha^  youi^ave  po  cpp^fpr^  whilp  ypu  ^tfiy. 

It  you  area  good  Cook, έΑΦ ^aud  \^y^  ^o)f┬╗r#bly  f┬τir  pl^y,έΑΦ 
you  will  soon  become  a  favourite  c^opxespc-r-if  your  M^tfr  in 
a  Man  of  Taste ;  but  never  boast  of  bis  approbatipp,  fo^  ip 
proportion  as  they  thipk  you  rise  ip  bip  estip)^tLopέΑΦ rypp  will 
e3u:ite  all  the  tricks,  that  Envy,  Hatred,  and  ^falice,  ^^  all 

έΑλ  t  έΑλ 

*  A  Chapter  of  Advice  to  Cooks,  wUl,  we  hope,  be  ibund  ti  meftil  ts  it  !έΑλ  origi- 
aal :  |ilt  we  hove  on  tbit  tubjeet  in  the  wbrkt'of  our  pnsdotettor*,  i%  the  foUowiift 
**'l  dull  strDDi^lT  rMomro^na  to  all  poa|cs  vf  jt^ther  tn,to  Ke^p  tfaeirStoiiiaelu  frae 
fWym  έΨιtrane1ioti6rfl  tili  MjUi-  Dinner,  and  their  KotetfiWli  anvli?'έΑΦ fl<fe  Ctirmcitn 
Prqf^ffCff  ^9P^%  ┬╗έΑλ  >o,  fro.  JMvid^  j  ipf M. 
5 


1 


^0  FRIENDLY    ADVICE    TO    COOKS* 

Uocharitableness,  can  suggest  to  your  fellow -servants ; έΑΦ every 
one  of  whom έΑΦ if  less  diligent,έΑΦ or  less  favoured  than  yourself 
έΑΦ will  be  your  Enemy. 

While  we  warn  you  against  making  others  your  Eoeray έΑΦ 
we  must  caution  you  also  to  take  care  that  you  do  not  Your- 
self become  your  own  and  greatest  Enemy.  **  Favourites  are 
Dever  in  greater  danger  of  falling,  than  when  in  the  greatest  fa- 
vour**έΑΦ'Which  often  begets  a  careless  inattention  to  the  com- 
mands of  their  employers,  and  insolent  overbearance  to  their 
equals έΑΦ a  gradual  neglect  of  duty έΑΦ and  a  corresponding  for- 
feiture of  that  regardέΑΦ which  can  only  be  preserved  by  the 
meaifr  which  created  it. 

If  your  Employers  are  so  pleased  with  your  conduct  as  to 
treat  you  as  a  friend  rather  than  a  servant έΑΦ do  not  let  their 
kindness  excite  your  self-conceit,  so  as  to  make  you  for  a  mo- 
ment forget  you  are  one.  Condescension  even  to  a  proverb 
produces  Contempt  in  inconsiderate  minds έΑΦ and  to  such  the  ^ 
έΨ╝ery  means  which  Benevolence  takes  to  cherish  attention  to 
duty,  becomes  the  cause  of  the  evil  you  wished  to  prevent. 

To  be  an  agreeable  Companion  in  the  Kitchen, έΑΦ without 
compromising  your  duty  to  your  Patrons  in  the  Parlour, έΑΦ ^re- 
quires no  small  portion  of  good  sense  and  good  nature  ;  in  a 
word,  you  must  ^^doas  you  wotdd  be  done  by,^ 

Act  for,  and  speak  of  bvert  body,  as  if  they  were 

PRESENT. 

We  hope  the  Culinary  Student  who  peruses  these  pages,  . 
will  be  above  adopting  the  common,  mean  and  base,  and  ever 
unsuccessful  way  of  '*  holding  with  the  Hare,  and  running  with 
the  Hounds,"-*-of  currying  favour  with  fellow -servants  by 
flattering  them,  and  ridiculing  the  Mistress  when  ia  the  Kitchen, 
έΑΦ and  then  prancing  into  the  Parlour^ έΑΦ and  purring  about  her, 
and  making  opportunities,  to  display  all  the  little  faults  you  can 
find  (or  inoent)  that  will  tell  well  against  those  in  the  Kitchen 
έΑΦassuring  them,  on  your  return,  that  they  were  praised, έΑΦ 
for  whatever  you  heard  them  blamed, έΑΦ and  so,  excite  them  to 
run  more,  extremely  into  any  little  error,  which  you  think  will 
be  most  displeasing  to  their  Employers έΑΦ watching  an  oppor- 
u  nity  to  pour  your  poisonous  lies  into  their  unsuspecting  ear?, 
when  there  is  no  third  person  to  bear  witness  of  your  Iniquity 
έΑΦ making  your  Victims  believe,  it  is  all  out  of  your  sincere 
regard  for  them έΑΦ assuring  them  (as  Betty  says  in  the  Man  of 


έΑλέΑλ- J^┬╗ 


to  be 

|iiy  thing 
which 

r^  1815, 

i^House- 

fight  af- 
|rou  aid 

nsider, 

rches," 


-5--*t: 


┬τ   ^   ┬╗ 


^2  rRIKNDLT   ADVICB   TO  COOKS* 

'*  A  folliog  itone  never  gathers  moss.^ 

'*  Honesty  is  the  best  Policy." 

**  A  still  tongue,  makes  a  wise  head.*' 


'*  Saucy  answers  are  highly  &ggravating<-*and  answer  no 
good  purpose.'* 

Let  your  Master  or  Mistress  scold  eter  so  mocb,  or  be  ever 
so  unreasonable; έΑΦ as  '*  a  soft  answer  turneth  away  wrath"έΑΦ 
'*  so  will  silence,  or  a  mi  id  answer,  be  the  best  a  servant  can 
make,"  ^ 

'*  if  your  Employers  are  hasty,  and  have  scolded  without 
reason έΑΦ bear  it  patiently έΑΦ they  will  soon  see  their  error,  and 
be  happy  to  make  you  amends.  Muttering  on  leaving  the 
roomέΑΦ or  slamming  the  door  after  you,  is  as  bad  as  an  imper- 
tinent reply έΑΦ it  is,  in  fact,  showing  that  you  would  be  imperti- 
nent if  yon  dared." 

'*  Afaiihfid  Servant  will  not  only  never  speak  disrespect^ 
fufly  to  her  Employers-έΑΦ but  will  not  bear  disrespectful  words 
said  o/  them."  Trusler's  Domestic  ManaganeTU,  p.  19> 
17,  &c. 

Apply  direct  to  your  EmphyerB^  and  beg  of  them  to  explain 
to  you^  as  fully  as  possible,  how  they  like  their  Viettttli  drese- 
ed,έΑΦ whether  much έΑΦ or  little  done.* 

Of  what  complexion  they  wish  the  Roasts,  of  a  gold  colour, 
or  well  browned,  and  if  they  like  them  frothed  1 

Do  they  like  Soups  and  Sauces,  thick  or  thin,  or  white  or 
brown,  clean  or  full  in  the  mouth  t  What  accompaniments 
they  are  partial  to  ? 

What  Flavours  they  fancy  ?  especially  of  Spice  and 
Herbs. 

**  NftBif oe  co^autdQinuii  debet  habete  gv^mJ^^-^MartiaL 

It  is  impossible  that  the  most  Accomplished  Cook  can  please 
iheir  palates,  till  she  has  learned  their  particular  ta8te*~tbis,  it 
will  hardly  be  expected,  she  can  bit  exactly  the  first  timeέΑΦ 
however,  the  bints  we  have  here  given,  and  in  the  7th  and  8th 
Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery,  will  very  much  facili- 
tate the  ascertainment  of  this  Main  Chance  of  getting  into 
their  favour. 

Be  extremely  oauiious  of  Seaeoning  High, έΑΦ leave  it  to  the 
Eaters  to  add  tbe  piquante  condiments,  according  to  their  own 

*  Memt  that  ii  not  to  tie  cut  till  it  ii  C┬τ^  niiut  be  tboroag|il7  done^  etiie^iany  la 
tummer. 


tfiitBpht  AliVitJfc  to  C6^d%  M 

palMe  ttbd  fttttcj :  fot  \hh  ptifpoi*,  έΑλ'  Tub  Magazim*  6ir 
TAS-rti,"  ot  '^  SAuce-hotr  (No.  455)  HtU  b*  found  M  IB- 
valuable  acqui^itrofi έΑΦ its  eonunts  will,  iasunuiMotisly,  pro^ 
duce  Ady  flavOQr  tbAt  may  be  desii^. 

**  De  gnttibai  non  ott  ditputanduiii." 

Tastes  are  as  difierant  as  Faces,έΑΦ and  without  a  raoitatleB- 
i^w&  observatioa  of  the  directioo  given  by  ber  Employers,  the 
most  experieoeed  Cook  will  never  be  esteemed  a  sagadooe 
Palatkiaa^ 

It  will  oot  go  far  to  pAcify  tbe  rage  of  a  ravenous  Gourmand^, 
wbo  likes  bis  Chops  broiled  brown  (and  done  enough,  so  that 
they  can  appear  at  table  decently,  and  not  blush  when  thev 
are  cut,)  to  be  told  that  eome  of  the  Customers  at  DoUy^ 
Chop-house  choose  to  have  them  only  half-done^  and  that  thia 
is  i\w  besl  way  of  eating  them*. 

We  all  think  ikai^  is  the  best  looy,  whkh  9Ve  reiuh  beMj  and 

which  agrees  best  with  our  Stomach : έΑΦ ^io  this,  Reason  and 

έΑλ  Fashion έΑΦ all  powerful  as  they  are  on  mosi  occasions, έΑΦ ^yi< 

to  the  imperative  caprice  of  the  Palate* 

Chacun  d  sen  GMiL 

^  The  irishman  lores  ZTt^uedoujfA, the  Sect  leret  Aleea]}*d  Kue'Ci^f-^ 
**  The  WelehTtian  he  loyes  Taoited  Chcete^  tod  make*  his  raonUk  likeft 

Oar  ItALiAif  neighbours  regale  themselves  with  Macanmi 
and  Parmesan 9  and  eat  some  things  which  we  call  CarrioTL^-^ 
Vide  Ray's  Travels,  p.  304  and  406. 

Whibt  the  Englishman  boasts  of  his  Roasi  Beef^  Thim 
Pudding,  and  Porter έΑΦ 

The  FRENCHMAN  feeds  on  his  favourite  Prog  and  Soup' 
maigre έΑΦ 

The  Tartar  feeds  on  Bor^e-flesk^ 

The  Chinaman  on  Dogs*^ 

The  Grbbnlandbr  preys  on  Garbage  and  Train  Oit-*- 
and  each  "  blesses  his  Stars  and  thinks  il  Luxury.'^ έΑΦ What 
at  one  time  or  place,  is  considered  as  beautiful,  fragrant,  and 
savoury,  at  another  is  regarded  as  deformed  and  disgustful. 

"  Ask  a  Toad  what  is  Beauty,  the  supremely  beautiful, 

tbe  TO  ┬τALON !   He   will  tell  you  it  is  my  fKtye,έΑΦ with  two 

large  eyes  projecting  out  of  her  little  head,  a  broad   and  flat 

neck^  yellow  belly,  and  dark  brown  back.έΑΦWith  a  Guinea 
6* 


"54  FRIENDLY   ADVICS    TO    COOKS* 

Negroy  it  is  a  greasy  black  skin,  hollow  eyes  and  a  flat  oose* 
έΑΦ Put  the  question  to  the  DevUj  and  he  will  tell  you,  that 
Beauty  is  a  pair  of  Horns,  four  Claws,  and  a  Tail." 

Assafalida  was  called  by  the  Ancients,  '*  Food  for  the 
Gods."  The  Persians,  Indians,  and  other  Eastern  people, 
now  eat  it  in  Sauces,  and  call  it  by  that  name : έΑΦ the  Germans 
eall  it "  DevWs  Dung.^^ έΑΦ Vide  Pomet  on  Drugs. 

Garlic,  and  Clove,  or  Allspice,  combined  in  certain  pro- 
portions, produce  a  flavour  very  similar  to  Assafoetida. 

The  organ  of  Taste  is  more  rarely  found  in  perfection,  and 
is  sooner  spoiled  by  the  operations  of  Time,  excessive  use,  &c. 
than  either  of  our  other  senses. 

There  are  as  various  degrees  of  sensibility  of  Palate,  as  there 
are  of  gradations  of  perfection  in  the  Eyes  and  Ears  of  Pain- 
ters and  Musicians : έΑΦ after  all  the  pains  Which  the  Editor  has 
taken  to  explain  the  Harmony  of  subtle  relishes, έΑΦ without  na- 
ture has  given  the  Organ  of  Taste  in  a  due  degree,  this  book 
will,  alas!  no  more  make  an  Osborm* έΑΦ than  it  can  a  Rey- 
noldsέΑΦ or  an  Arnb. 

Where  nature  has  been  roost  bountiful  of  this  faculty,  its 
sensibility  is  so  easily  blunted, έΑΦ by  a  variety  of  unavoidable 
rircu instances, έΑΦ that  the  Tongue  is,  very  seldom,  in  the  high- 
est condition  for  appreciating  delicate  flavours,  or  accurately 
estimating  tbe  relative  force,  of  the  various  materials,  the  Cook 
employs  in  the  composition  of  an  harmonious  relish  ; έΑΦ Cooks 
express  this  refinement  of  Combination  by  saying,  a  well  flnisb- 
ed  Ragout  "  tastes  of  every  thing,  and  tastes  of  nothing  ;** 
(this  is  ** kitchen  gibbtinsk,^*  for  a  Sauce  in  which  the  compo- 
nent parts  are  well  proportioned.) 

However  delicately  sensitive  nature  may  have  formed  the 
organs  of  Taste, έΑΦ it  is  only  during  those  few  happy  moments^ 
έΑΦ that  they  are  perfectly  awake,  and  in  perfect  good  humour 
(alas  !  how  very  seldom  they  ore) έΑΦ that  the  most  accomplish- 
ed and  experienced  Cook,  has  a  chance,  of  working  with  any 
degree  of  certainty,  without  the  auxiliary  tests  of  the  balance 
and  the  measure ; έΑΦ by  the  help  of  these,  when  you  are  once 
right,  it  is  youf  own  fault  if  you  are  ever  otherwise. 

The  sense  of  Taste,  depends  much  on  the  health  of  the  In- 
dividnal,  and  is  hardly  ever  for  a  single  hour,  in  the  samestate, 

.  έΑλ  '  έΨι  έΨι  -  έΨι  !έΨιέΨιέΨι 

έΑλCook  to  Sir  Joieph  Buiki ,  Bert,  tele  President  of  the  Royal  Sooiety 


SBIENPLY    ADVICE   TO   COOKS.  &B 

-^such  is  the  extremely  iotiiDate  Aympatby,  between  the  Sto- 
mach and  the  Tongue,  that  ia  proportion  u  the  former  k 
┬μmpty,  the  latter  is  acute  and  sensitive : έΑΦ this  is  the  cause  thai 
*'  good  Appetite  is  the  best  Sauce" έΑΦ and  that  the  dish  we  find 
relishing  and  savoury  at  Luncheon^ έΑΦ is  insipid  at  Dinnerf έΑΦ 
and  at  Supper  quite  tasteless. 

To  taste  any  thing  in  perfection,  the  Tongue  must  be  moist- 
ened, or  the  substance  applied  to  it  contain  moisture έΑΦ the 
nervous  papiils  which  constitute  this  sense  are  roused  (o  still 
more  lively  sensibility  by  Salt έΑΦ Sugar έΑΦ Aromatics,  &c. 

If  the  Palate  becomes  dtill  by  repeated  tasting,  one  of  the 
best  ways  of  refreshing  it έΑΦ is  to  masticate  an  Apple,  or  to 
wash  your  mouth  well  with  Milk.     See  p.  2%. 

The  incessant  Exercise  of  Tasting,  which  a  Cook  is  obliged 
to  submit  to  ducing  the  Education  of  her  Tongue, έΑΦ frequently 
impairs  the  very  faculty  she  is  trying  to  improve.  **  'Tis  true 
έΑΦ 'lis  pity έΑΦ and  pity  'tis,"  (says  a  grand  Gourmand^)  "  'tis 
true, έΑΦ her  too  anxious  perseverance  to  penetrate  the  mysteries 
of  Pafatics  may  diminish  the  tact,  exhaust  the  power  and  de- 
stroy the  IndeXy  without  which  all  her  labour  is  in  vain." 

Therefore,  a  sagacious  Cook,  instead  of  idly  and  wantonly 
wasting  the  excitability  of  her  PalateέΑΦ on  the  sensibility  of 
which,  her  reputation  and  fortune  depend,  wbep  she  has  as- 
certained her  relative  strength  of  the  fiavour  of  the  various  in- 
gredients she  employs,  will  call  in  the  Balance  ard  the  Meas- 
ure, to  do  the  ordinary  business,  and  to  preserve  her  Organ  of 
Taste  with  the  utmost  care,  that  it  may  be  a  faithful  Oracle,  to 
refer  to,  on. Grand  occasions,  and  new  Compositions,* έΑΦ of 
these  an  ingenious  Cook  may  form  as  endless  a  variety,  as  a 
Musician  with  his  seven  notes,  or  a  Painter  with  his  colours : 
έΑΦ read  chapters  7  and  8  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

Receive  as  the  highest  testimonies  of  your  Employers'  re- 
gard, whatever  observations  they  may  make  on  your  work- 
such  admonitions  are  the  most  unequivocal  proof s^  of  their  de- 
sire to  make  you  thoroughly  understand  their  taste έΑΦ and  their 

-  -  έΨι  '  έΑΦ έΑΦ έΑΦ ^έΑΦ έΨι 

*  **  The  divenitiet  of  Taste  are  so  many  and  so  considetable,  that  it  seemeth 
strange  to  see  the  matter  treated  of,  1x>ih  by  Philosophers  and  Phyiiciaos  with  so 
moeh  scantiness  and  defect :  for  the  subject  is  not  faarrenj  but  yirldeth  much  and 
pleasant  Tariety,  and  doth  also  appear  to  be  of  great  importanGe.**->Frofn  0r. 
Crrew^  Atmt┬╗my  vf  PbffiU,  fok  1083,  p.  S8&  The  JDr.  enamerates  sixteen  simple 
lastet:  however,  it  is  diflScnlt  to  define  more  than  six.έΑΦ Ist.  Bitter  as  Wormwood. 
Sd.  Sweet  as  Sugar.  3d.  Sour  as  Vinenr.  4th.  Salt  as  Brine.  5th.  Cold  as  Icew 
Gth.  Htt  as  Brandy.  Compound  tastes,  umiunerable.  may  he  ftnucd  by  Uke  combi- 
imtMni  of  4mm  timplt  taitei^ai  wotdi  are  of  letten.*' ' 


56  FRIlftNDtir   ADYIC┬τ   to  COOK┬τ. 

trifth  to  i^tniti  yoa  in  their  Mi^ic^^or  they  would  ttot  take  the 
trouble  to  teach  you. 

Enter  into  all  their  plans  of  Beonomy*,  and  endeavoiii^  td 
make  the  most  of  every  thing,  as  well  for  ydtir  owd  honour 
88  your  maBter*s  profit έΑΦ take  care  that  the  Meat  which  is  io 
make  its  appearance  again  in  the  Parlour,  is  haadsomely  cut 
trith  B  sharp  fcnife-^and  put  on  a  clean  dish έΑΦ take  cafe  of  the 
Gravy,  see  (No.  3^6,)  which  is  left,  it  will  save  many  pounds 
of  Meat  in  making  sauce  for  Hajshes,  p6uUryy  and  many  little 
dishes* 

Many  things  may  be  re-dressed,  in  a  different  form,  from 
that  in  which  they  were  first  served,  and  improve  the  appear- 
ance of  the  table  without  increasing  the  eicpeose  of  it. 

Cold  Fish,έΑΦ SolesέΑΦ Cod έΑΦ Whitings έΑΦ Smelts,  &c.  may 
be  cut  into  bits,  and  put  into  ┬μscallop  Shells έΑΦ with  Cold  Oys- 
ter, Lobster,  or  Shrimp  Sauce,  and  bread  crumbed  and  put 
into  a  Dutch  Oven,  aad  browned  like  scalloped  Oysters. 
(No.  185.) 

The  best  way  To  WAitm  cold  M┬μAt  is  tosprinkle  the  joint 
over  with  a  little  salt,  put  in  a  D^jtch  Oven,  at  some  distance 
before  a  gentle  fire,  that  it  may  warm  gradually έΑΦ watch  it 
carefully,  and  keep  turning  it  tilt  it  is  quite  hot  and  brown : 
it  will  take  from  twenty  minutes  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
according  to  its  thickness έΑΦ serve  it  up  with  Gravy ; έΑΦ this  is 
much  better  than  Hashing  it,  and  by  doing  it  nicely,  a  Cook 
will  get  great  credit.  Poultry,  (No.  530*) ;  Fried  Fish, 
(See  No.  145,)  &c.  may  be  re-dressed  this  way. 

Take  eare  of  the  Liquor  you  liave  boiled  routtry  or  Meat 
in  :  io  five  minutes  you  make  it  into  bxcbllevt  Soup έΑΦ see 
06┬τ.  to  (No.  555,)  No.  229,  No.  5,  and  the  7th  chapter  of  the 
Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

No  good  Housewife  has  any  pretensions  to  Rational  Econ" 
wny  who  boils  Animal  food  without  converting  the  Broth  ioto 
some  sort  of  Soup. 

However  highly  the  uninitiated  in  the  Mystery  of  Soup  mak- 
ing may  elevate  the  external  appendage  of  bis  Olfactory  Organ 
at  the  mention  of  '*  Pot  Liqvok,"  if  he  tastes  (No,  5^  or  218, 
555,  &:c.),  he  will  be  as  well  pleased  with  it,  a?  a  Frenchman 
is  with  *^  Potage  d  la  Cameram^  of  which  it  vst  sai^  ^  a  single 


,  M  ani  pctiMiadltbct  m  vServmt  ^rer  t┬τTed  her  Miutef  nsacnee.  but  ite 
It  m  Uio  end  m  her  own  pgckct.*v*lVtMier^  hmatk  M^MgerMtUf  p.  il. 


έΨι#5'5 


fff^  sBgmm** 


^8  FRIENDLY    ADVICE    TO    COOK^. 

and  will  not  (rust  the  key  of  this  room  to  any  one ;  she  will 
also  keep  an  accgunt  of  every  thing  she  takes  from  it,  and  ma- 
nage with  as  much  consideration  and  frugality  as  if  it  was  her 
own  property  she  was  using,  endeavouring  to  disprove  the 
adage,  that  '*  plbntt  makes  WaxU^  and  remembering  that 
*'  wilful  waste  makes  woeful  want." 

The  honesty  of  a  Cook  must  be  above  atl  suspicion :  she 
must  obtain,  and,  (in  spite  of  the  Tiumberless  Temptations,  Sfc^ 
that  daily  offer  to  bend  her  from  it,)  preserve  a  character  of 
spotless  Integrity,  and  useful  Industry +,  remembering  that  it  is 
the  fair  price  of  Independence,  which  all  wish  for,  but  none 
without  it  can  hope  for :  only  a  Fool  or  a  Madman  will  be  so 
silly  or  so  crazy,  as  to  expect  to  reap,  where  he  has  been  too 
idle  to  sow. 

Very  few  modern  built  Towo-houses  have  a  proper  place 
to  preserve  provisions  in,  the  best  substitute,  is  a  Hanging- 
safe,  which  you  may  contrive  to  suspend  in  an  airy  situation, 
and  when  you  order  Meat,  Podltrt  w  ┬ξiSB,iell  the  Trades^ 
^^-VfUlSk3^henyou  intend  to  dress  it, έΑΦ he  will  then  have  it  in  his 
power  to  sSf^e^ou-wUh  proviaion  that  wiU  do  him  credit, 
which  the  finest  Meat,  &c.  in  the  world,  will  never  do,  unless 
it  has  been  kept  a  proper  time  to  be  ripe  and  tender.    . 

If  you  have  a  welt-ventilated  Larder,  in  a  shady,  dry  situa- 
tion, you  may  make  still  surer,  by  ordering  in  your  Meat  and 
Poultry,  such  a  time  before  you  want  it  as  will  render  it  tender, 
which  the  finest  meat  cannot  be,  unless  hung  a  proper  time; 
(see  9d  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery  ;)  according  to 
the  season  and  nature  of  the  meat,  &c.,  but  always  as  ^^lesbons 
hommes  de  bouche  de  France^"*  say  it  is  "  assez  mortiJiSe,^^ 

Permitting  this  process  to  proceed  to  a  certain  degree,  ren- 
ders meat  much  more  easy  of  solution  in  the  Stomach,  and 

for  those  whose  digestive  facuUies  are  delicate,  it  is  of  the 

'  έΨι  έΑλ    I'         '   έΨι      .       I  II     .        II  III       ill. 

t  Many  Cook*  idim  excellmt  opportunities  of  nmking  themselTe*  independent,έΑΦ 
bv  their  Idlenew,έΑΦ in  refusing  U17  place,  however  profitable,  &o.  if  (here  it  not  a 
KUchen  Matd  kept  to  wait  upon  them. 

There  are  many  invalids  who  require  a  good  Cook,  and  as  (after  readinr  this  Book 
Ihej  will  understand  how  much^  their  comfort  and  elTecliTe  existence  dinends  on 
their  food  being  properly  prepared,  will  willinglv  pay  handsome  wagesέΑΦ (who  would 
not  rather  pay  the  Cook  than  the  Doctor  0έΑΦ but  haye  so  little  work  in  the  Kitchen 
έΑΦchat  one  person  may  do  it  all  with  the  utmost  ease,  without  ii\jury  to  their  health, 
έΑΦwhich  is  not  the  case  in  a  large  family,  where  the  poor  (Cook  is  roasting  and  stew- 
ing all  dayέΑΦ and  is  often  deprived  of  her  rest  at  night.  No  artists  have  greater  need 
to  **  make  Hay  while  the  Sun  shines,*^  and  timely  provide  for  the  infirmities  of  Age 

*<  It  is  melancholy  to  find,  that  accoinding  to  the  authority  of  a  certain  great  Freneh 
authorέΑΦ**  Cooks  half-stewed,  and  half  roasted,  when  unable  to  work  any  kmger, 
generally  retire  to  some  unknown  eorner,  and  die  in  furlomneis  and  wVkU^έΑΦ Black' 
wootft  Sdinb,  Mag,  vol.  vti.  p.  909. 


FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS.  59 

tUmo^  fmportancey  thai  it  be  attended  to  voiUi  the  gteaieit  nice^ 
h/j έΑΦ Ibr  the  meet  consaaunate  skill  in  the  CQlinary  preparation 
of  it,  will  not  compensate  the  want  of  attention  to  this.  Read 
06s.  to  No.  68.  Meat  that  is  thoroughly  Roatted^  or  Boiled^ 
eats  much  shorter  and  tenderer,  and  is  in  proportion  mote  di- 
gestible,  than  that  which  is  under  done. 

Yon  wilt  be  enabled  to  manage  mnch  better,  if  your  Em- 
ployers will  niake  out  a  bill  of  Fare  for  the  Week,  on 
the  Saturday  before-έΑΦ for  example  for  a  family  of  half  a  do- 
zenέΑΦ 

Sunday^.m^'Roiat  Beef  fKo.  19.)  and  My  Paddmr  CNo.ffM.} 

Mtiday.*..^F┬╗vi  (Noi.  16,  M.)  Do.  tM^led. 

Tuef<i(ra┬τ.┬τ.Calf-Hcttd  (No.  la)  Apple  Pie. 

Wednetday^Ajeg  ct  Mutton  (No.  1.)  ov  (No.  iS^ 

TAurtday^^Bo.  broiled  or  hashed  (No.  487.)  or  (No.  4SI|)  FMi  Caioef . ' 

Frtdoy  ┬τ.M...Fiih  (No.  145.)  Paddior  (No.  J54.) 

$aturday*,┬╗^uhi  or  Eggi  and  Baem  (No.  t45.) 

It  IB  an  excellent  plan,  to  have  certain  things  on  certain  days 
έΑΦ When  your  Butcher  or  Poulterer  knows  what  yoo  will  want, 
be  has  a  better  chance  of  doing  his  best  for  yon  :  and  never 
think  of  ordering  Beef  for  RoastingέΑΦ except  for  Sunday. 

fVhen  the  Weather  or  Season*  is  very  unfavourable  for 
keeping  Meaty  6fc. έΑΦ ^give  him  the  choice  of  sending  that  which 
is  in  the  best  order  for  dressing έΑΦ t.  e,  either  Ribs  or  Sir-Loia 
of  BeefέΑΦ or  Leg έΑΦ Loin έΑΦ or  Neck  of  Mutton,  &c. 

Meat  in  which  you  can  detect  the  slightest  trace  of  putres- 
cency,  has  reached  its  highest  degree  of  tenderness,  and  should 
be  dressed  without  delay ;  but  before  this  period,  which  in 
some  kinds  of  meat  is  offensive,  the  due  degree  of  inte^eration 
may  be  ascertained,  by  its  yielding  readily  to  the  pressure  of 
the  finger,  and  by  its  opposing  little  resistance  to  an  attempt  to 
bind  the  joint. 

Although  we  strongly  recommend  that  Animal  Food  should 
be  hung  up  in  the  open  air,  till  its  fibres  have  lost  some  degree 
of  toughness έΑΦ yet,  let  us  be  clearly  understood,  also  to  warn 
you έΑΦ that  if  kept  till  it  loses  its  natural  sweetness έΑΦ it  is  as  de- 


'  *  The  Seaton  of  the  year  has  considerable  influence  on  the  quality  of  Butcher 
nieat->depeudine  upon  the  more  or  less  plentiful  supply  of  Food,  upon  the  periodi- 
cal change  wbieh  takes  place  in  the  body  of  the  Aniroalf  and  upon  temperature. 
The  flesh  of  most  full  grown  Quadrupeds  is  in  highest  season  during  the  6rst  months 
of  Winter,  after  having  enjoyed  the  advantage  of  the  abundance  of  fresh  tummer 
food.  Ito  flaroiur  then  begins  to  bt  injured  by  the  turnim.  ISce.  given  as  winter  food, 
nnd  in  Spring  it  gets  lean  from  deficiency  of  food.  Although  Beef  and  Mutton  are 
never  absolutely  out  of  season,  or  not  fit  for  the  table,  thev  are  best  in  November, 

]>ecember.  and  January.    Fork  is  absolutely  bad,  exccjpt  during  the  Wiater.έΑΦSufi' 

ptt^ment  to  the  Eilinburgh  Encv.  Brit*  p.  3M. 


($0  FRIENDLY  ADVICi;  7Q  CQQKa* 

trimeptfil  tp  l^eaHb.  ┬τi  it  iff  dis^grp^tUf  to  tbe  Sadl  and 

Iir  V9RT  COLO  WBATHVH έΑΦ ^bring  your  M^ftly  Poultry,  &c 
into  the  kitchep,  e#rty  io  the  qaorning.  If  you  FQ^^t^^bpil έΑΦ or 
stew  It  ┬τF9r  ┬τP  geotly  aq4  ever  so  ioog^r-if  it  b┬τ^┬τzeai7┬τ-it  wiU 
contiDue  tough  aod  uoch<iii┬τb{e. 

Without  very  watchful  utteotioQ  to  tbift  the  most  sktlfol 
CooIf  in  tb9  world  ivill  get  np  credit,  be  she  aver  so  carelql  ia 
tb9  onapagement  of  hor  Spit  or  her  Stowpaiu 

The  time  Meat  should  hang  to  be  tender^ έΑΦ depends  oa  tht 
beat  and  humidity  of  the  9ir :  if  it  is  not  kept  loQg  enough,  it  is 
hard  and  tough  ;  if  too  long,  it  loses  its  6a90ur  :^t  should  be 
hung  where  it  will  have  e  thorough  ^ir*  aqd  be  dried  with,  a 
cloth  oigfat  and  morning,  to  keep  it  frpio  damp  ipind  mMStiness. 

Before  you  dress  it,  wash  it  well,*-if  it  vk  roasting  Beef, 
pare  gfftfffi  outside. 

If  you  f^ftr  M^slU  &P.*  will  not  l|eep  till  tho  tim9  it  is  want- 
ipd,-T-par-roa3tf  orjMzr-boility έΑΦ ^it  will  thep  k^p  a  couple  of 
davs  longer,  when  it  may  be  4re^se4  in  tbf  usMfil  vr^y,  only  it 
will  he  done  ip  rgtbi^r  le^s  tiipp- 

The  Cook  and  the  Butcher  i^  fffteo  lo^e  their  credit^  hj 
Meatii)eing  dri^ssed  too  fr^sh,  as  the  Fishmonger  dp^  by  fiab 
that  has  been  kept  too  lopg. 

Pr.  Frfmklip  in  his  philosophical  experiments  tells  us,  that 
if  Game  or  Poultry  be  killed  by  ┬μl┬μctimcitt  it  will  become 
tender  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  and  if  it  be  dressed  imme- 
diately will  be  delicately  tender. 

During  the  sultry  summer  MOivriis,  it  is  ahP^t  impbssibl^ 
lo  procure  meat  that  i^  not  either  tpugb έΑΦ or  taipted έΑΦ the  for^ 
mer  is  as  improper  as  the  latter  for  the  unbraced  stomachs'  of 
rela;[ed  Valetudio/^riaQsέΑΦfor  whpm,  at  this  season,  PouUry, 
Stews,  &c.  ^nd  Vegetable  Soups,  m  the  most  suiti^ble  food έΑΦ 
when  the  digestive  organs  are  debilitated  by  the  extreme  heat 
έΑΦ land  profuse  perspirfition  requires  an  ipcrease  of  liquid  to  ror 
store  equilibrium  in  the  constitution. 
έΨι  . .'  ' .  1- 

^  *'  Larder* f  Fantriet.unA  5l8/V┬╗-Hnbst  beiheltered  fnum  the  Svd*  and  otherwii* 
lemovefl  rrom  the  beat,  be  dry┬τ  and  if  poi┬τiUe  hare  a  current  of  drf,  cool  air  coutia- 
έΑλally  patsini^  UiroughAhem. 

Tfae#i%fcziDff  temperainre.  i.  e.  32  tiqtree*  of  Fahrtnhfit,  ii  a  perfect  presenratiTe 
ilrom  putrefacti<:n έΑΦ warm  mout  rnuKg)  >┬τeatii.er  is  the  worf  t  for  k┬τepui┬τ;  meat.έΑΦ The 
south  wind  is  espeeially  unfavourable,  and  tightning  is  quickly  deftroeuve  ,  tiut  the 


FRIENDLY   ABVICE  TO   COOKS.  61 

I  have  tdken  muck  more  pains  than  any  of  my  mrtdece$tar$f 
to  teach  the  young  Coofc  how  to  perform  in  the  oest  wumner^ 
the  common  husinen  of  her  profession  ;  being  weil  grooodtd 
in  the  RUDIMENTS  of  COOK┬μRY,  i┬╗be  will  beabU  to 
execute  the  orders  that  are  giveo  her,  with  ease  to  hectelf^  and 
aaUsfactioB  to  her  Employers,  and  aeod  up  a  delicious  dinner, 
with  half  the  usual  Expense  and  Trouble. 

I  have  endeavoured  to  lessen  the  labour  of  those  who  wish 
to  be  thoroughly  acquainted  with  their  profesaion  ;  and  an  a|- 
tentiTe  perusal  of  the  following  pages  will  sara  them  much  of 
the  irksome  drudgery  attending  an  apprentioeahip  at  the  atove  ; 
an  ordeal  so  severe,  that  few  pass  it  without  irreparable  injury 
to  their  Health ;  *  and  many  lose  their  lives  before  they  .learo 
their  business. 

To  encourage  the  best  perforroanee  of  the  machinery  of  Mas- 
tication, the  Cook  must  take  care  that  her  Dinner  ia  not  only 
well  cookedέΑΦ but  that  each  dish  be  sent  to  table,  with  its  proper 
accompaoimeotsέΑΦ in  the  neatest  and  most  elegant  manner. 

Remember  that  to  excite  the  good  opinion  of  the  Eye  ia  the 
first  step  towards  awakening  the  Appetite. 

Decoration  is  much  more  rationally  employed,  in  rendering 
a  plain  wholesome  nutritious  dish  inviting,  than  in  the  elaborate 
embellishments  which  are  crowded  about  Trifles  and  Custards. 

Endeavour  to  avoid  ovfr-dressing  Roasts  and  Boils,  Ac.  and 
<n>er-se┬τsoning  Soups  and  Sauces,  with  Salt,  Pepper^  &c. έΑΦ ^it 
is  afutUt  which  cannot  he  mended. 

If  your  Roasts,  &c.  are  a  little  uncf^T^done ;  with  the  assist- 
ance of  the  Stewpan, έΑΦ the  Gridiron, έΑΦ or  the  Dutch  Oven, έΑΦ 
you  may  soon  rectify  the  mistake  made  with  the  Spit  or  the 
Pot. 

If  over-done,  the  best  juices  of  the  Meat  are  evaporated ,-┬τ 
It  will  serve  merely  to  distend  the  Stomach,  and  if  the  sensation 
of  Hunger  be  removed,  it  is  at  the  price  of  an  Indigestion. 

The  chief  business  of  Cookery,  is  to  render  food  easy  of  di- 
gestionέΑΦ and  to  facilitate  nutrition.  This  is  most  completely 
accomplished  by  Plain  Cookery  in  perfection έΑΦ i.  e.  neither 
over  nor  under^ione. 


*<*  Bay  it  with  Itesltb,  ttreiifttb.  aad  letolatioB, 
Aii4  M7  for  it,  a  nbutt  MnstitntiMi.*^ 


62  FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS. 

With  all  your  care,  yoti  will  oot  get  macb  credit  by  Cook- 
iog  to  perfection,  if  more  tfaao  One  dish  goes  to  table  at  a  time,- 

To  be  eaten  in  perfection,  the  interval  between  Meat  being 
taken  out  of  the  Stewpan,  and  its  being  put  into  the  Mouth, 
must  be  shoe t  at  possible ;  but  Ceremony,  that  most  formi- 
dable enemy  to  good  Cheer,  too  often  decrees  it  otherwise,  and 
the  Quests  seldom  get  a  bit  of  an  *'  EntremeV^  till  it  is  half  cold. 
(Set  No.  485.)  So  much  time  is  often  tost  in  putting  every 
tiling  in  Applepie  order,έΑΦ that  long  before  Dinner  is  announc- 
ed, all  becomes  lukewarm, έΑΦ and  to  complete  the  mortificatioa 
of  the  grand  Gourmand^  his  meat  is  put  on  a  sheet  of  Ice  in 
the  shape  of  a  Plate,  which  instantly  converts  the  Qravy  into 
Jelly,  and  the  Fat  into  a  something  which  puzzles  his  teeth  and 
the  roof  of  his  mouth  as  much  as  if  he  bad  Birdlime  to  mas- 
ticate : έΑΦ a  complete  Meat  Skreen  will  answer  the  purpose  of  a 
HoLdoset  PUUe'tparmerj  Sec, έΑΦ See  Index. 

It  will  save  you  infinite  trouble  and  anxiety,  if  you  can  pre- 
vail on  your  employers  to  use  the  **  sauce  box^^  (No.  463,) 
hereinafter  described  in  the  chapter  of  Sauces.  With  the  help 
of  this  Magazine  of  Taste,  every  one  in  company  may 
flavour  their  Soup  and  Sauce,  and  adjust  the  vibrations  of  their 
Palate,  exactly  to  their  own  fancy  :  but  if  the  Cook  give  a  de- 
cidedly predominant,  and  fiquante  gout  tp  a  dish,  to  tickle  the 
Tongue  of  two  or  three  visitors,  whose  taste  she  knows έΑΦ she 
may  thereby  make  the  Dinner  disgusting  to  all  the  other  guests. 

Never  undertake  more  work  than  you  are  quite  certain  you 
can  do  well ;  and  if  you  are  ordered  to  prepare  a  larger  Dioner 
than  you  think  you  can  send  up  with  ease  and  neatoesi,  or  to 
dress  any  dish  you  are  not  acquainted  with,  rather  than  run  any 
risk  of  spoiling  any  thing  (for  by  one  fault,  you  may  perhaps 
lose  all  your  credit)  request  your  employer  to  let  you  have 
some  help.  They  will  acquit  you  for  pleading  guilty  of  ina-┬╗ 
iHlityέΑΦ but  if  yo(|  mi&ke  ap  attempt,  and  fMl*  they  may  vote  it 
a  capital  offence. 

Do  not  trust  any  part  of  your  work  to  others  without  care- 
fully overlooking  them  ;  whatever  faults  they  commit.  You 
will  be  censured  for ;  if  you  have  forgotten  any  article  which  is 
indispensable  for  the  day's  dinner,  request  your  employer  te 
send  one  of  the  other  servants  for  it.  The  Cook  must  never 
q[uit  her  Post,  till  her  work  is  entirely  finished. 

|t  requires  the  utmost  skill  and  contrivance  to  hA^OAH  things 


1: 


έΨι^' 


.*..*. 


64  FRIENDLY   ADVICE    TO   COCNSS* 

would  were  you  to  deal  with  those  who  pretend  to  sell  cheap-έΑΦ 
but  you  will  be  more  than  io  proportion  better  served. 

Ewry  trade  has  its  tricks  and  deceptions  ;  those  who  follow 
them  can  deceive  you  if  they  please,  and  they  are  apt  to  do  so, 
if  you  provoke  the  exercise  of  their  over-reaching  talent.:): 

Challenge  them  to  a  game  at  *'  CeUch  who  Can^'*  by  entirely 
relying  on  your  own  judgment :  and  you  will  soon  find  nothing 
but  very  long  experience  can  make  you  equal  to  the  combat  of 
marketing  to  the  utmost  advantage. 

Before  you  go  to  Market,  look  over  your  Larder,  and  con- 
sider well  what  things  are  wanting έΑΦ especially  on  a  Saturday. 
No  well-regulated  family  can  suffer  a  disorderly  caterer,  to  be 
jumping  in  and  out  to  the  Chandler's  shop  on  a  Sunday  morning. 

Give  your  directions  to  your  assistants,  and  begin  your 
Business  early  in  the  Morning,  or  it  will  be  impossible  to  have 
the  Dinner  ready  at  the  time  it  is  ordered. 

To  be  half  an  hour  after  the  time,  is  such  a  frequent  fault, 
that  there  is  the  more  merit  in  being  ready  at  the  appointed 
hour.  This  is  a  difficult  task,  and  in  the  best  regulated  family 
you  can  only  be  sure  of  your  time  by  proper  arrangements. 

With  all  our  love  of  punctuality  we  must  not  forget  that  the 
first  consideration  must  still  be,  that  the  Dinner  '*  be  well  done 
jjfv hen 'tis  ^oi2e.'*-^If  any  accident  GCCuFS,  which  is  likelv  to 
prevent  your  sending  the  Soup,  &e.  to  table  at  the  tnoment  it  is 
expected,  send  up  a  message  to  your  employers,  stating  the  cir- 
cttiusliiuce,  and  bespeak  ibeir  paueuce  lor  as  many  minutes  c^ 
you  think  you  shall  want  to  be  ready.  This  is  better  than 
either  keeping  the  Company  waiting  without  an  apology ;  cr 
dishing  your  Dinner  before  it  is  done  enough,  and  so  disgust- 
ing the  Stomachs  of  the  guests  at  the  first  appearance  of  it. 

Those  who  desire  regularity  in  the  service  of  their  table, 
should  have  a  DIAL  of  about  twelve  inches  diameter,  placed 
over  the  Kitchen  fire-place,  carefully  regulated,  to  keep  time 
exactly  with  ihe  clock  io  the  Hall  or  dining  Parlour ; έΑΦ with  a 


him  ┬τn  abftteniMitv  is  the  hope  of  fUtwe  fiiTtmn,  f^j  the  demand*  end  deei  with 
the  Gentleman  no  more ;  but  do  not  let  him  lee  that  you  ┬τre  dttpleased,  or  as  soon 
asyou  are  oat  of  sight,έΑΦ your  Reputi^tion  will  suffer  as  much  ts  your  Fookec  h┬τi.**έΑΦ 
Trttsler*k  Way  to  be  JWcA. 


FRISNDtY  ADVlCS  TO  COOKS.  65 


I 


frame  oa  eoe  sicU^  coDtaiaiQg.a,  tastb  .iabli*  of  tba  paoaliar- 
ities.of  the  master'a  pa\aU┬╗  aad  Ul^  particuUr  nilat  aod  oidtn 
of  bis  KUoheo.;*έΑΦ aod  oo  the  otber  aide,  of  mmwAmiM  givw  to 
those. who  attead  to  thom,  and  for  long  aod  futUfui  flanrict. 

la  ainall.  Families,  wWe  a  Dinner  is  saldoai  pvan,  a  graet 
deal  of  preparatipa  is  required,  and  the  preceding  daj  moat  be 
devoted  lo  (be  buMAeao  of  the  Kitcbao. 
.  On  tb^e  oocasiona  a  C^-toonutn  is  of^en  employed  to  do 
tfae  dirty  work ;  bat  we  ratber  advise  yon  to  bire  a  Cotk  to 
help  to  dress  tbe  Diooeri^tbis  would  be  ?ery  little  more  ei- 
peoseέΑΦ *aDd  tbe  work  got  tbroagb  roucb. better. 

When  yot)  have  έΨ▓  ykrt  larob  Entbrtaikkkkt  to  prepare^ 
get  yoer  Soups  aod  Saucbs^  Forcbmbats,  &c.  ready  tbe  d.iy 
before έΑΦ and  read  the  7tb  Cbapter  of  oar  BxdimaiU  of  Codb* 
tr^i  maqy  Madb  Dishes  may  also  be  prepared  tbe  day 
before  they  are  to  go  to  table-┬τ-bcit  do  not  do  tbem  quiU  enough 
tbe  first  day-f-tbattbey  may  not  be  otMrdone  by  warming  ap 
ttgaio. 

Pj:epare  every  tbing  yon  cae,  the  day  before  the  Dinner, 
and  order  every  tbing  else  to  be  sent  in  early  in  the  Morning 
-^if  the  Tradesmen  forget  it--  it  will  allow  you  time  to  send 
lor  it. 

The  Pastbt,  J  blubs,  &c.  yon  may  prepare  while  tbe 
Broths  are  doing :  then  trusa  your  Game  and  Ponltry, έΑΦ and 
shape  your  Collops,  Cutlets,  &c-┬╗and  trim  them  neaUif έΑΦ aU 
atoay  aU  Flaps  and  GrisUes^  Sfc.  Natkmg  $funddgo  to  Table 
kut  what  has  indisputable  pretensums  te  he  eaten  I 

Put  yonr  k adb  dishbs  in  plates,  and  arrange  tbem  upon  tbe 
dresser  in  regular  order : έΑΦ next  see  that  your  Roasts  and  Boila 
are  fill  nicely  trinuned┬╗  trussed,&c.  and  quite  ready  for  the  Spit 
or  the  Pot, 

Have  ypnr  Yeobtables  neatly  cut,  pared,  picked,  and  clean 
washed  in  tbe  cullender :έΑΦ -provide  a  tin  dish  with  partitions  to 
bold  your  fine  herbs;  Onions  and  Shallots,  Parslej,  Thyme* 
Tarragon,  Chervil,  and  Bornet,  minced  very  fine^  and  Lemon 
peal  grated,  or  cut  thin,  and  chopped  very  small ;  Pepper  and 
Salt  ready  mixed, έΑΦ and  your  Spice-box  and  Salt-cellar  always 
ready  for  action^-*tbat  every  thing  you  want  m^y  be  at  hand 
lor  your  Stoye-wQrkrr-^^d  not  b┬τ9C4Lmpering  about  the  kitchen 
in  a  ^^hirlpool  of  cqe^Mpku  btp^lig,  f(ft┬τr  tbesetriflesj^  whil^  tbe 
Dinner  ia  waiting. 


66  FRIKNBtT   ADVICE   TO    COOKS'* 

In  one  drawer  under  yoar  Spicb-Box,  keep,  ready  ground, 
tn  welt  stopped  Bottles,  the  several  spices  separate;  and  aUa 
that  mixture  of  them  which  is  called  '*  Ragout  Potcder  :  (No. 
457,)  or  (No.  460 ;)έΑΦ in  another  keep  your  dried  and  powder- 
ed, Sweet  Saroury,  and  Soup -herbs,  &c.  and  a  set  of  weights 
and  scales  :έΑΦ yoo  may  have  a  third  drawer,  containing  Fla- 
vouring Essences,  Szc^  an  invaluable  auziliary  in  finishing 
soup6  and  sauces :  See  the  account  of  the  **  Magazine  omt 
Taste,**  or  "  Sauce  Box,"  (No.  483.) 

Have  also  ready  some  THicKENmo,  made  o  the  best  white 
flour  sifted,  mixed  with  soft  water  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it 
is  the  consistence  of  thick  batter ;  a  bottle  of  plain  Brownihg 
(No.  32%)  some  strained  Lemon-juice,  and  some  good  Glaze, 
or  Portable  Soup,  (No.  262.) 

Nothing  can  be  done  in  perfection^  that  must  he  done  in  a 
Aurr^ /έΑΦtherefore,  if  you  wish  the  dinner  to  be  sent  up  to 
please  your  Master  and  Mistress,  and  do  credit  to  yourself,  set 
a  high  value  on  your  character  for  punctuality :  this  shows  the- 
establishment  is  orderly,  is  extremely  gratifying  to  the  Master 
and  his  Guests,  and  is  most  praiiseworthy  in  the  Attendants. 

But,  remember,  you  cannot  obtain  this  desirable  reputation,, 
without  good  management  in  every  respect ;  if  you  wish  to  in- 
sure Ease  and  Independence  in  the  latter  part  of  your  life,  you 
must  not  be  unwilling  to  pay  the  price  for  which  only  they  can 
be  obtained,  and  earn  them  by  a  dUigeni  and  faithfulX  per- 
formance of  the  duties  of  your  station  in  your  young  days, 
which,  i/you  steadily  persevere  in,  you-  may  depend  upon  ulti- 
mately receiving  th?  reward  your  services  deserve; 

All  Duties  are  reciprocal ;  and  if  you  hope  to  receive  favour,, 
endeavour  to  dieserve  it  by  showing  yourself  fond  of  obliging, 
and  grateful  when  obliged ;  such  Biebaviour  will  win  regard 
and  maintain  it,enforce  what  ia right,  and  excuse  what  is  wrong. 

Quiet  steady  Perseverance^s  the  only  sure  spring  which  yoa 
can-  safely  depend  upon  to  infellibly  promote  your  progress  on 
tbe  road  to  Independence.. 


FAIENDLY    ABVtCl   TO   COOKS*  67 

If  year  employere  do  not  immediately  appeer  to  be  sensibto 
of  your  endea?oure  to  contribute  your  utmoBt  to  their  comfort 
and  interest,  be  not  easily  discouraged  ; έΑΦ Peruvere^  and  do  all 
io  yout  power  to  make  toursblf  useful. 

┬μndeaTour  to  promote  the  Conibrt  of  every  lodividoal  io 
the  Family  3  let  it  be  manifest,  tbat  you  are  desirous,  to  do 
rather  more  than  what  is  re<]uired  of  you,  than  less  than  your 
Duty :  they  merit  little  who  perform  merely  what  would  be 
exacted έΑΦ if  you  are  desired  to  help  in  any  business  which  may 
not  strictly  belong  to  your  departmeDt,undertake  it  Cheerfully* 
Patiently,  and  Conscientiously* 


C     68     ] 
TAbLE  OP  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES, 


To  reduce  our  CuliDarjr  Of  έΑλnilioat  to  as  exact  a  oertaiuly, 
as  tb┬╗  nature  of  the  process,   would  admit  of ;έΑΦ we  have, 
wbeniTer  it  was.  aeedCiil,  given  the  QuaDtities  of  each  article. 

Thb  Weights,  are  Avoirdupois.  The  MxA8i7B.8t έΑΦ the 
grad^iated  glass  of  the  Apothecaries;  this  appeared  the 
iQost  accurate  and  coDYeoieat; έΑΦ the  Pint  bdog  divided' into 
sixteen  ounces,  the  Ounce  into  eight  drachms.  A  middiiog^ 
size  Teaspoon  will  contain  about  a  Drachm  ; έΑΦ fpur  such  Tea- 
spoons are  equal  to  a  middling  size  Tablespoon^  or  half  an 
Ounce ; έΑΦ four  Tablespoons  to  a  common  sized  Wineglass. 

The  specific  gravities  of  the  various  substances,  being  so  ex- 
tremely diflforent,  we  cannot  offer  any  aoxiliary  standard s+  for 
the  WEIGHTS,  which  we  earnestly  recommend  the  Cook  to  em- 
ploy, if  she  wishes  to  gain  credit  for  accuracy  and  uniformity 
in  her  business :  these  she  will  find  it  necessary  to  have  as 
small  as  the  quarter  of  a  drachm  Avoirdupois,  which  is  equal 
to  nearly  seven  grains  Troy. 

Glass  Measures,  (divided  into  Tea,  and  Table-spoonSy) 
containing  from  Half  an  Ounce  to  Half  a  Pint,  may  be  had  at 
Price's,  near  Exeter  'Change,  Strand  :  where  also  may  be 
bad, έΑΦ the  double-headed  pepper  and  spics-boxbs,  with 
caps  over  4be  gratings.  The  superiority  of  these,  by  preserv- 
ing the  cdntents  from  the  action  of  the  air,  roust  be  sufficiently 
obvious  to  every  one :  the  fine  aromatic  fiavour  of  Pepper  is 
soon  hstj  from  the  hoUUs  it  is  usuaUy  kept  in  not  being  weU 
stopped.  Peppers  are  seldom  ground  or  pounded  sufficiently 
fine.    (See  N.  B.  to  369.) 

N.  B.  The  Trough  Nutmeg  Gt^  aters,  made  by  Brooks, 
Ironmonger  in  Piccadilly  (near  Bond  Street),  are  by  far  the 
best  we  have  seen,  especidly  for  those  who  wish  to  grate  fine, 
and  fast 


t  AlttictablMpooBfUorriolur  weigte  abottthalf  anOaiict. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY, 


CHAPTER  I. 
BOILING. 


1  BIS  most  simple  of  Culiaary  processes  is  aot  often  perform- 
ed in  perfectioo,έΑΦ 'it  does  uol  require  quite  so  much  picety  and 
attfiodance,  as  Roastiog, έΑΦ to  skim  your  pot  well,  aod  keep  it 
really  boiUog  (the  slower  the  better)  all  the  while, έΑΦ to  know 
how  ioog  18  required  for  doing  the  joint,  &c.  and  to  uke  it  up, 
at  ihe  critictl  n^oment  when  it  is  done  enough, έΑΦ comprehends 
almoel  the  whole  art  and  mystery.  This,  however,  demands  a 
patient  And  per{)e4ttal  vigilanee,  of  which  fow  persons  are  ca┬τ 
pable. 

The  Cook  must  take  e&pedal  care  that  the  water  realbf  boils 
all  the  i^kib  dvt  k  Cooinng,  or  ih&  ^^  h  deceived  in  the 
time  ;  and  makeup  asulRcient  fire  (a  frugal  Cook  will  manage 
with  much  less  fire  for  Boiling  than  she  uses  ior  roasting)  at 
first,  to  last  all  the  time,  without  much  mending  or  stirmig. 

IVhen  the  Pot  is  coming  to  a  boil,  there  will  always*  from 
tbe  cleanest  Meat  and  clearest  Water,  rise  a  Scum  to  the  top 
of  it :  proceeding  partly  from  the  foulnesg  of  the  meat,  and 
partly  from  the  water, έΑΦ this  must  be  carefully  taken  off  as  soon 
as  it  rise^ 

On  this,  depends  tbe  good  appearance  of  all  boiled  things. 

When  yott  have  scummed  well,  put  in  some  cold  water, 
which  will  throw  up  tlie  rest  of  the  scum. 

The  ofteoer  it  is  scummed,  aod  the  cleaner  the  top  of  the 
Water  is  kept,  tbe  cleaner  will  be  the  Meat. 

If  let  alone,  it  soon  boils  dowa  and  sticks  to  the  Meat ;+ 
which,  instead  of  looking  delicately  white  and  nice,έΑΦ -will  have 
that  coarse  and  filthy  appearance  we  have  too  often  to  coo- 

t  Iff  unfortunately,  thii  thouid  happen,  the  Cook  muit  carefully  take  it  off  when 
she  duhes  op,  either  with  a  cfeaa  Sponge  or  a  Paste-hnuh. 


70  BOIL1X0. 

plain  of,  and  the  Butcher  and  Poulterer  be  blamed  for  the 
carelessoess  of  the  Cook  io  not  scumming  her  pot. 

Many  put  io  Milky  to  make  what  they  boil  look  while  ;  but 
this  does  more  harm  tbao  good : έΑΦ others  wrap  it  up  fa  a  cloth ; 
έΑΦ but  these  are  needless  precautions  ;  if  the  scum  be  attentively 
removed,  Meat  will  have  a  much  more  delicate  colour  and  finer 
flavour  than  it  has  when  muffled  up.  This  may  give  rather 
more  trouble έΑΦ but  Those  who  wiAh  io  excel  in  their  Art  must 
only  consider  how  the  processes  of  it  can  he  most  perfeetltf  per* 
formed  ; έΑΦ a  Cook  who  has  a  proper  pride  and  pleasure  in  her 
business,  will  make  this  her  maxim  on  all  occasions. 

Put  your  Meat  into  co/J| water,έΑΦ in  the  proportion  of  about 
a  quart  of  Water  to  a  pound  of  Meat :έΑΦ it  should  be  covered 
with  water  during  the  whole  of  the  process  of  BoilingέΑΦ but  not 
drowned  in  H έΑΦ the  less  water,  provided  the  meat  be  covered 
with  it,έΑΦ the  more  Savoury  will  be  the  Meat,  and  the  better 
will  be  the  Broth. 

The  fValer  should  he  heated  graduaUyέΑΦ'Bccordiag  to  the 
thickness,  &c.  of  the  article  boiled έΑΦ for  instance,  a  Leg  of  Mut- 
ton of  10  pounds  weight,  (No.  J),  should  be  placed  over  a 
moderate  fire,  which  will  gradually  make  theioater  hot,  vnthout 
causing  it  to  hoit  for  ahout  forty  minutes έΑΦ if  the  water  boil 
much  sooner,  the  meat  will  be  hardened,  and  shrink  up  as  if  it 
was  scorched έΑΦ by  keeping  the  water  a  certain  time  heating 
without  boiling,  its  fibres  are  dilated,  and  it  yields  a  quantity 
of  scum,  %btcb  must  be  taken  off  as  soon  as  it  rises. 

**  If  a  vessel  containing  water  be  placed  over  a  steady  Fire, 
the  Water  will  grow  continually  hotter  till  it  reaches  the  limit  of 
boiling,  after  which  the  regular  accessions  of  heat,  are  wholly 
spent  in  converting  into  Steam έΑΦ the  Water  remains  at  the 
same  pitch  of  temperature,  however  fiercely  it  boils.  The  only 
difference  is,  that  with  a  strong  fire  it  sooner  comes  to  boil,  and 
more  quickly  boils  away,  and  is  converted  into  Steam.'* 

The  Editor  placed  a  Thermometer  in  water  in  that  state 
which  Cooks  call  gentle  simmering, έΑΦ the  heat  was  212* έΑΦ i,e. 
the  same  degree  as  ike  strongest  hoiling.  Two  Muttoit 
Chops  were  covered  with  cold  water, έΑΦ and  one  boiled  a  gallop 
and  the  other  simmered  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ; 

t  Cooks,  howerer,  at  w┬τH  at  Doctort,  dintpne;  for  tome  n7,duit**all  lortioC 
freth  meat  tbould  be  put  in  when  the  water  boilt."  I  prefer  tbeaboTe  method,  for 
the  reason  givenέΑΦ g┬τnUe  ittwiof  renden  Meat,  &e┬τ  tender,  and  still  leaTcsit  taptd 
and  Dtttridre. 


BOILING.  71 

tbe  FlaTOur  of  the  Chop  which  was  simmered  was  decidedly 
4apenor  to  that  which  was  boiled  ;  the  Liquor  which  boiled 
last,  was  in  lihe  proportion  more  savoury,  and,  when  cold,  had 
much  more  fat  on  its  surface  :  thi^  explains  why  quick  boiling 
reoders  meat  bard.  Sec.  because  its  juices  are  extracted  in  a 
-greater  degree. 

RECxoir  THE  Time  from  its  first  coming  to  a  hoiL 
The  old  rule  of  1 5  minutes  to  a  pound  of  meat,  we  think 
rather  too  tittle  ;  the  slower  it  boils,  the  tenderer,  tbe  plumper, 
and  whiter  it  will  be. 

For  those  who  choose  their  Food  thoroughly  cooked,  which 
all  will  who  ba^e  any  regard  for  their  Stomachs,  Twenty 
Minutes  to  a  Pound  will  not  be  found  too  much  for  gentle 
mnmering  by  the  side  of  the  fire ;  allowing  more  or  less  time, 
aocordiog  tO  the  thidcTtess  of  the  Joint,  and  the  coldneos  of  the 
Weather ;  always  remembering,  the  aluwer  it  boHs  the  better.  , 

Without  some  practice  it  is  difficult  to  teach  any  art ;  and 
Cooks  seem  to  suppose,  they  must  be  right,  if  they  pot  meat 
into  a  pot^  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  a  certain  time, έΑΦ making 
no  aUowanoe,  whether  it  simmers  without  a  bubble,  or  boils  a 
gallop. 

Freih'kiUed  Meat  will  take  much  longer  time  boiling  thaa 
that  which  has  been  kept  till  it  is  what  tbe  butchers  call  np^,έΑΦ- 
and  longer  in  cold  than  in  warm  weather  ;  if  it  be  frozen,  it 
most  be  thawed  before  boiling  as  before  roasting  ;έΑΦ <f  it  he 
fresh  kUled  it  wUl  be  tough  and  hardf  if  you  stew  it  ever  so 
long^  andjever  so  gently.  In  cold  weather,  the  night  before 
the  day  you  dress  it,  bring  it  into  a  place  of  which  the  tempera- 
ture is  not  less  than  45  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer. 

The  Size  of  the  Boilino  Pots  should  be  adapted  to  what 
they  are  -to  contain  :  the  larger  the  saucepan,  the  more  room  it 
takes  upon  tbe  fire,  and  a  larger  quantity  of  Water  requires  a 
proportionate  increase  of  Fire  to  boil  it. 

In  Small  Families,  we  recommend  BLOCK  TIN  sauce- 
par,  s,  ^c.  as  lightest,  and  safest ;έΑΦ if  proper  care  is  taken  of 
jthem,  and  they  are  well  dried  after  they  are  cleaned,  they  are 
by  far  the  cheapest ;  tbe  purchase  of  a  new  Tin  saucepan  be- 
ing little  more  than  the  expense  of  tinning  a  Copper  one. 

Take  care  that  the  Covers  of  your  boiling  pots  fit  close, 
not  only  to  prevent  unnecessary  eraporation  of  the  water,  but 


73  BOILING. 

that  the  smoke  may  not  insinuate  ftself  ander  the  edge  of  the 
lid,  and  give  the  meat  a  bad  taste. 

If  you  let  meat  or  poultry  remain  in  the  water  after  it  is  done 
enoqgh,.it  will  become  sodden  and  lose  ita  flavoor. 

Beef  and  Mutton  a  little  uniier-done  (especially  ^ery  large 
joints,  which  will  make  the  better  Hash  or  Broil,)  is  not  a  great 
fault ;  by  some  people  it  is  preferred  ;  but  Lam6,  Pork,  and 
Vealf  are  uneatable  if  not  thoroughly  boiledέΑΦ ^but  do  not  over- 
do them. 

A  Tritbt,  or  Fish  drainer  put  on 'the  bettom  of  the  boiling 
Pot,  raising  the  contents  about  an  inch  and  a  half  from  the  bot- 
tom, will  prevent  that  aide  of  the  meat  "which  comes  next  the 
bottom  from  being  done  too  much, έΑΦ and  the  lower  part  of  the 
meat  will  be  as  delicately  done  as  tbeother  part ;  and  this  will 
enable  you  to  take  out  the  contents  of  the  Pot  without  sticking 
a  fork,  Sfo.  into  it.  If  you  have  not  a  trivet,  use  four  Skawen, 
or  a  Soup-plate  laid  the  wrong  side  upwards. 

Take  care  of  the  Liquor  you  have  boiled  Poultry  or  Meat 
in ;  in  Five  Minutes  you  may  make  it  into  EZcstLBirT  Soup  ; 
see  Obs.  to  (No.  555)  and  (No.  239.) 

The  GOOD  Housewife  never  boils  a  Joint  without  eonYort- 
ing  the  Broth  into  some  sort  of  Soup,  (Read  No.  5  and  chap* 
ter  7,  and  see  page  57.)  If  the  Liquor  be  too  salt,  only  use 
half  the  quantity,  and  the  rest  water ;έΑΦ ^wash  Salted  meat  well 
with  cold  water  before  you  put  it  into  the  boiler. 


4n  tdimatian  of  the  Loss  of  Wiioht  which  takes  place  in  Cookii^ 
jMnuU  Food,    From  Mr.  Tillocb*s  Philotophical  Magasine. 

**  It  is  well  known  that,  in  whatever  way  the  flesh  of  animals  ia 
prepared  for  food,  a  considerable  diminution  takes  place  in  its 
weight.  We  do  not  recollect,  however,  to  have  seen  any  where  a 
statement  of  the  loss  which  meat  sustains  in  the  various  culinary  pro- 
cesses, although  it  is  pretty  obvious  that  a  series  of  experiments  on 
this  subject  would  not  be  without  their  use  in  domestic  economy. 

┬τ  We  shall  here  give  the  result  of  a  series  of  experiments  which 
were  actually  made  on  this  subject  in  a  public  establishment ;  pre- 
mising that,  as  they  were  not  undertaken  from  mere  curiosity,  but, 
on  the  contrary,  to  serve  a  purpose  of  practical  utility,  absolute  ac- 
curacy was  not  attended  to.  Considering,  however,  the  large  quan- 
tities of  provisions  which  were  actually  examined,  it  is  presumed  that 
the  results  may  be  safely  depended  upon  for  any  practical  purpose. 
It  would  no  doubt  have  been  desirable  to  have  known  not  only  the 
whole  diminution  of  weight,  but  also  the  parts  which  were  separated 


B01UK6.  73 

from  the  meat  in  the  form  of  aquecmi  vapour,  jeDjr,  fkt,  be.  but  the 
determination  of  these  ^d  not  fall  virlthin  the  scope  of  the  enqorj. 

Ut.     Mt. 

28  pieces  of  beef  weiffiuog 280    O 

Lost  in  boiling 78  14 

┬τ  Hence  the  weiglit  left  by  beef  in  boiling'  was  in  this  caae  about 
26i  lbs.  in  100  lbs. 

fb$.    dft. 

19  pieces  of  beef  weighing 190    0 

Lost  in  roasting 61    fl 

'^  The  weight  lost  by  beef  in  roasting  appears  to  be  92  per  cent. 

9  pieced  of  beef  weighing 90    0 

Lost  in  baking 27    0 

"  Weight  lost  by  beef  in  bAing,  30  per  cent. 

lbi┬╗  Mf. 

27  legs  of  mutton  weighing 260  0 

Lost  in  boiling,  and  having  the  shank  bone  )        62  4 

taken  on I 

^'  the  shank-bones  were  estimated  at  4  oances  /        6fi  8 
each  ;  therefore  the  loss  by  boiling  was                   ) 
*'  The  loss  of  weight  in  legs  of  mutton,  in  boiling  is  21  >  per  cent. 

Ibt.    ozt. 

35  shoulders  of  mutton  weighing 360    0 

Lost  in  roasting 109  10 

┬τ  The  loss  of  weight  in  shoulders  of  mutton,  by  roasting,  if  aboot 
31 '  per  cent. 

*  Ibt.    ou, 

leioins  of  mutton  weighing 141    O 

Lost  in  roasting 49  14 

<<  Hence  kins  of  mutton  lose,  by  roasting,  about  d6|  per  cent. 

lbs.     099. 

10  necks  of  mutton  weighing      ....,.'  100    0 

Lost  in  roasting 82    6 

**  The  loss  of  necks  of  mutton,  .by  roasting,  is  about  82^  per  cent. 

"  We  shall  only  draw  two  practical  inferences  from  the  fbregoinr 
statement.  Ist.  In  respect  of  economy,  it  is  more  pro6table  to  boil 
meat  than  to  roast  it.  2d.  Whether  we  roaft  or  ;boil  meat,  it  loses 
by  being  cooked,  from  ene-fiflh  to  one-third  of  its  whole  weight.** 

The  loss  in  Roasting  arises  fitNfe  the  melting  out  of  the 
Fat*  and  evaporating  the  water :  but  tbe  nutntioirs  matten  re- 
TDaio  condensed  in  the  cooked  solid. 

In  Boiling,  the  loss  arises  partly  from  the  fat  melted  oof,; 
but  chiefly  from  GeUUine  and  Osmazome  being  extracted  and 
dissolved  by  the  water  in  which  the  meat  is  boiled  ;  there  ie, 
therefore,  a  real  loss  of  aoiiriahiuent  unless  tbe  Broth  be  used  i 
έΑΦ when  this  mode  of  cooking  becomes  the  most  economical. 
7 


74  BOILING. 

Sauces  tiamUy  sent  to  Table  with  Boiled  Meat,  ^e. 

These  are  to  be  sent  up  in  Boats,  and  Derer  poured  over 
the  Meat,  &c.┬π 

GniTy  ftr  boiled  Start,  No.  3t7.  IHinley  and  Batter,  Noi  S61. 

Ghenril  No.2fti.  Moek  Ditto  N0.2S3. 

Caper  NO.SY4.  Oyiter  No.  978. 

LiTcr  and  Panley         No.  887.  Celery  No.  889. 

Onieii  No.  800,  &c  Shallot  No.  305. 

Wow  wow  No,  388*  Curry  Not  348. 


BAKING. 


The  following  Observations  were  given  to  us  by  a  respecta- 
ble  Baker. 

Baking  is  one  of  the  cheapest,  and  roost  convenient  ways  of 
dressing  a  Dinner  in  small  families  ;  and  I  may  say  that  the 
Oven  is  often  the  only  Kitchen  a  poor  man  hasy  if  he  wishes  to 
enjoy  a  joint  of  Meat  at  home  with  his  family. 

I  don't  mean  to  deny  the  superior  excellence  of  Roasting  to 
Baking  ;  but  some  joints,  when  Baked,  so  nearly  approach  to 
the  same  when  Roasted,  that  I  have  known  them  to  be  carried 
to  the  Table,  and  eaten  as  such  with  great  satisfaction. 

Legs,  and  Loins  of  Pork;  Legs  of  Mutton;  Fillets 
of  Veal  ;  and  many  other  joints,  will  Bake  to  great  advan- 
tage if  the  meat  be  good  ;  I  mean  well  fed,  rather  inclined  to 
be  fat ;  if  the  meat  be  poor,  no  Baker  can  give  satisfaction. 

When  baking  a  joint  of  poor  meat,  before  it  has  been  half 
baked,  I  have  seen  it  start  from  the  bone,  and  shrivel  up  scarce- 
ly  to  be  believed. 

Besides  those  Joints  above  mentioned,  T  shall  enumerate  a 
few  Baked  dishes,  which  I  can  particularly  recommend. 

A  Pig,  when  sent,  to  the  Baker  prepared  for  baking  should 
have  its  Ears  and  Tail  covered  with  buttered  paper  properly 
fastened  on,  and  a  bit  of  Butter  tied  up  in  a  piec^  of  line  to 
baste  the  back  with,  otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to  blisters  with  a 
proper  share  of  attention  from  the  Baker,  I  consider  this  way 
equal  to  a  roasted  one. 


έΑλ┬τέΨιέΑλέΑλ 


$  The  dimination  of  weight,  by  Boiling  and  Roasting,  a  not  all  loM.^the  Pat 
Skimmingi  and  the  Vripptng*  nicely  clarified,  will  well  supply  the  place  of  Lard 
έΨιtad  ibr  Fnring.    See  (No.  83)  and 'the  Receipt  for  Cheap  SMip,  (No.  ttO.^ 


BAKING.  75 

A  Goose  prepared  the  same  as  for  roasting,  taking  care  to 
haire  it  on  a  stand,  and  wbeo  half  done,  to  turn  the  other  side 
upwards.     A  Duck  the  same. 

A  Buttock  of  Beep  the  foUowiug  way  is  particularly  6ne. 
After  it  has  been  in  salt  about  a  week,  to  be  well  washed  and 
put  into  a  brown  earthen  pan  with  a  pint  of  water ;  cover  the 
pan  tight  over  with  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  cap  or  foolscap 
Paper ;  never  cover  any  thing  that  is  to  be  baked  with  Brown 
paper,  the  pitch  and  tar  that  is  in  brown  paper  will  give  the 
meat  a  snooky  bad  tasteέΑΦ give  it  four  or  five  hours  itt  a  moder- 
ate heated  oven. 

A  Ham  (if  not  too  old)  pot  in  soak  for  an  hour,  taken  out 
and  wiped,  a  crust  made  sufficient  to  cover  it  all  over,  and  bak- 
ed in  a  moderate  heated  oven ;  cuts  fuller  of  gravy,  and  of  a 
┬μner  flavour  than  a  boiled  one.     I  have  been  in  the  habit  of 
baking  small  Cod-fish,  Haddock,  and  Mackerel,,  with  a 
dost  of  flour,  and  some  bits  of  butter  put  on  them.    Eels,  when 
large  and  stuffed.     Herrings  and  Sprats,  in  a  brown  pan, 
with  vinegar  and  a  little  spice,  and  tied  over  with  paper.     A 
Hare,  prepared  the  same  as  for  Hoasting,  with  a  few  pieces  of 
Butter,  and  a  little  drop  of  Milk  put  into  the  dish,  and  Basted 
several  times,  will  be  found  nearly  equal  to  roasting  ;  or  cot  it 
up,  season  it  properly,  pot  it  into  a  jar  or  pan,  and  cov┬τf  it 
over  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  three  hours.-έΑΦ In 
tlie  same  manner,  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of  baking  Legs  and 
Shins  of  Beef,  Ox  Cheeks,  &c.  prepared  with  a  seaaoniag 
of  Onions,  Turnips,  &c. :  they  will  take  about  four  hours  :  let 
them  stand  till  cold  to  skim  off  the  fat ;  then  warm  it  ap  all 
together,  or  part,  as  you  may  want  it. 

All  these  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of  baking  for  the  first  fam- 
ilies. 

The  time  each  of  the  above  articles  should  take,  depSMs 
much  upon,  the  state  of  the  Oven,  and  J  do  consider  the  Baker 
a  sufficient  judge  ; έΑΦ if  they  are  sent  to  him  in  time,  he  must  be 
very  neglectful,  if  they  are  not  ready  at  the  time  they  are  or- 
dered. 

Fo:  Receipts  for  making  Bread,  French  Rolls,  Muffins, 
Crumpets,  Sally  Lunn,  &c.  See  Appendix. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  II. 
ROASTING. 


In  all  studies,  it  is  the  best  practice  to  begin  with  the  plainest 
and  easiest  parts ;  and  so  on,  by  degrees,  to  such  as  are  more 
ciifficiiit  :  we,  therefore  treated  of  plain  Boiling,  and  we  now 
proceed  to  Roasting : έΑΦ we  shall  then  gradually  unravel,  to  our 
Culinary  students,  the  Art,  (and  mystery^  until  developed  in 
this  work)  of  making  with  the  least  trouble  and  expense,  the 
most  highly  finished  Made-dishes. 

Let  the  young  Cook  never  forget,  thai  Clbanlinbssisi  the 
ckhi  (Cardinal  Virtue  of  the  Kitchen ; έΑΦ the  first  preparation  for 
Roasting  is  to  take  care  that  the  Spit  be  properly  cleaned  with 
sand  and  water ;  nothing  else.  When  it  has  been  well  scour* 
ed  with  this,  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth.  If  Spits  arc  wiped  clean, 
as  soon  as  the  meat  is  draumfrom  tkem^  and  while  they  are  hot, 
a  very  Utile  cleaning  wiil  he  required*  The  less  the  Spit  is  pas- 
ed  through  the  meat  the  better*,  and  before  you  spit  it,  joint 
it  joreper/i/έΑΦ especially  necks  and  loins-έΑΦ that  the  Carver  may 
separate  them  easily  and  neatly,  and  take  especial  care  it  be 
evenly  balanced  on  the  spit,  that  its  motion  may  be  regular, 
and  the  fire  operate  equally  on  each  part  of  it ; έΑΦ therefore,  be 
provided  with  Balancing  Skewers,  and  Cookholds,  and  see 
it  is  properly  Jointed. 

*  Small  families  have  notalwayt  the  coDvenieace  of  roattiiir  with  a  SptC,--a  re- 
mark upon  roatting  by  a  Hring  is  neeesiary.  Let  the  Cook,  6e^r┬τ  she  puts  her  meat 
down  to  the  fire,  pasaa  strour  skewer  through  each  end^f  the  joint :  by  this  meant, 
when  it  is  about  half  done*  she  ean  with  ease  turn  the  bottom  upwards ;  the  gravy 
will  then  flow  to  the  part  wUieh  has.  been  uppermost,  and  the  whole  joim  be  de- 
lieiously  graTy-fuU. 

A  Btttle-Jack^n  it  is  tenoed  by  the  furnishing  ironmongers,  is  a  έΨ╝aluable  instru- 
ment for  roasting. 


A  Dutch  Oven,  is  -another  very  eonrenient  utensil,  for  rpasting  light  ^'oints, 
warming  them  up┬τ 


or 


oasty 
euffi- 

ijr  fire ; 

iCoalgy 
is  re- 
etted) 

ssibly 
it  at  a 

vs  pur- 
it  off;  it 


_έΑλ!έΑλ_ 


78  ROASTING. 

pose,  called  '^  Kitchen  Paper/'  and  tie  it  on  with  fine  twin┬τ; 
phis  and  skewers  can  by  no  means  be  allowed,  the j  are  so  maoy 
taps,  to  lei  out  the  Gravy :  besides,  the  paper  often  starts 
from  them  and  catches  fire  to  the  great  injury  of  the  meat. 

If  the  thing  to  be  roasted  be  thin  and  tender,  the  fire  should 
be  little  and  brisk ;  when  you  have  a  large  joint  to  roast,  make 
up  a  sound,  strong  fire,  equally  good,  in  every  part  of  the  grate 
έΑΦ H>r  your  meat  cannot  be  equally  roasted,  nor  have  that  uniform 
colour  which  constitutes  the  beauty  of  good  roasting. 

Give  the  Fire  a  good  stirring  before  you  lay  the  joint  down  ; 
examine  it  from  time  to  time,  while  the  spit  is  going  round  ; 
keep  it  clear  at  the  bottom,  and  take  care  there  are  no  smoky 
coals  in  the  front,  which  will  spoil  the  look  and  taste  of  the 
meat,  and  hinder  it  from  roasting  evenly. 

When  the  joint  to  be  roasted,  is  thicker  at  one  end  than  the 
other,  place  the  spit  slanting,  with  the  thickest  part  nearest  the 
fire┬τ 

Do  not  put  Meat  too  near  the  fire  at  first ;  the  larger  the 
joint  the  farther  it  must  he  kept  from  the  Fire  ;έΑΦ if  once  it 
gels  scorched,  the  outside  will  become  hard,  and  acquire  a  dis- 
Bgreeable  empyreumatic  taste;  and  the  fire  being  prevented 
from  penetrating  into  it,  the  meat  will  appear  done,  before  it  is 
little  more  thbn  half  done,  besides  losing  the  pale  brown  colour, 
which  it  is  the  Beauty  of  Roasted  meat  to  have. 

From  14  to  10  inches  is  the  usual  distance  at  which  meat  is 
put  from  the  grate,  when  first  put  down  :  it  is  extremely  diflB- 
cult  to  offer  any  thing  like  an  accurate  general  rule  for  this, έΑΦ it 
depends  so  much  upon  the  size  of  the  fire,  and  of  that  of  the 
thing  to  be  roasted. 

Till  some  Culinary  Philosopher  shall  invent  a  Thermometer 
to  ascertain  the  heat  of  the  Fire,  and  a  graduated  Spit-Rack 
to  n┬╗g┬τi!ate  the  disunce  from  it,  the  process  of  Roasting  is  at- 
tended by  so  many  ever-varying  circumstances,  that  it  must  re- 
main among  those  which  can  only  be  performed  well,  by  fre- 
quent practice  and  attentive  observation. 

**  Mr.  Watt,  for  his  Steam  Engines  where  Wood  fuel  is  em- 
ployed, allows  three  times  the  Weight  of  Wood,  that  he  does 
of  Newcastle  CoaJsέΑΦ -and  a  bushel  of  Ncwcoatle  Coals,  which 


ROASTIKQ*  79 

weighs  ^  of  a  Cwt.  ia  reckoned  to  produce  as  mach  hflit  as  a 
Gwt.  of  Scottish  or  Glasgow  CoaV* 

If  you  wish  your  Jack  to  go  well,  keep  it  as  clean  as  possi- 
ble, oil  it  aod  then  wipe  it ;  if  the  oil  is  not  wiped  off  again,  it 
will  gather  dust ;  to  prevent  this,  as  soon  as  you  have  done 
roasting,  cover  it  up. έΑΦ ^Never  leave  the  winders  on  whilst  the 
Jack  is  going  round,  unless  you  do  it,  as  Swift  says,  **that  it 
may  fly  off,  and  knock  those  troublesome  servaints  on  the  head 
who  will  be  crowding  round  your  Kitchen  fire.'' 

Be  very  careful  to  place  the  Drippino-Pan  at  such  a  drstance 
from  the  fire,  as  just  to  catch  the  drippings:    if  it  is  too  near┬╗ 
the  ashes  will  fall  into  it,  and  spoil  the  Drippings*  (which  we 
shall   hereafter  show,  will  occasionally  be  found  an  excellent 
substitute  for  Butter  or  Lard ;) έΑΦ To  clarify  Drippingi^  see 
"No.  83,  and  Peate  and  Dripping  Soup^  No.  229  (savourif  and 
sabuhrwwi  for  only  a  Penny  per  Quart.)     If  it  is  too  far 
from  the  fire  to  catch  them,  you  will  not  only  lose  your  drip- 
pings, but  the  meat  will  be  blackened,  aod  spoiled  by  the  foetid 
smoke,  which  will  arise  when  the  fat  falls  on  the  live  cinders. 

Tke  time  Meat  iviU  take  Roasting  will  vary  according  to  the 
time  it  has  been  kept,  and  the  temperature  of  the  weather  :έΑΦ 
the  same  weightf  will  be  twenty  minutes,  or  half  an  hour  long- 
er in  Cold  fVeather^t  ^han  it  will  be  in  warm-r-and  if  fresh 
kiHedf  than  if  it  has  been  kept  till  it  is  tender.  Cooks  seldom- 
calculate  according  to  the  variation  of  temperature,  &c, 

A  good  Meat  Screen,  is  a  great  saver  of  Coals.  It  should 
be  on  wheels,  have  a  flat  top,  and  not  be  less  than  about  three 
feet  and  a  half  wide,  and  with  shelves  in  it,  about  one  foot 
deepέΑΦ it  will  then  answer  all  the  purposes  of  a  large  Dutch 
oven,  Plate  Warmer,  Hot  Hearth,  &c.  Some  are  made  with  a 
Door  behind έΑΦ this  is  covenient έΑΦ but  the  great  heat  they  are 
exposed  to  soon  shrinks  the  materials,  and  the  current  of  air 
through  the  cracks  cannot  be  prevented έΑΦ so  they  are  better 
without  the  Door. 


έΨιi┬τ 


*  This  the  OoocTHoiuewifo  wiU  take  up  oeeaiionallj,  and  pan  throurfa  a  neve  into 
a  stone  pan :έΑΦ by  leaTing  it  all  in  the  Dripping-fNin,  until  the  Meat  u  taken  up,  it 
not  only  become*  Tery  ttroiw,  but,  when  the  meat  is  rich  and  yields  much  of  it,  it ┬╗ 
apt  to  be  spilt  in  butinff.^To  elarify  Drippings,  see  No.  83.^ 

f  Iruift  upovrthe  Butcherjlxing  a  Ticket  έΑλ/  the  vteight  t9  each  Joint, 

%  If  the  Meat  Ufrnen,  the  usual  piaetice  is  to  put  it  in  Cold  Water  till  it  is  thaw- 
ed, then  dry  and  mast  it  as  usual  ;^1rat  we  leeommend  you  to  bring  it  into  the  kitch- 
en the  inght  before,  or  early  in  the  nMurning  of  the  day  you  want  to  roast  it,  and  the 
man  air  witl  thaw  it  much  better. 


80  ROASTING* 

Every  body  knows  the  advaota^  of  Saw  BoUing-^uoir 
Roasting  is  equally  important. 

It  is  difficult  to  give  aoy  specific  Rule  for  Time; έΑΦ but  if 
your  Fire  is  made  as  before  directed, έΑΦ your  Meat  SέΓυreen  suf- 
ficiently large  to  guard  what  you  are  dressing  from  currents  of 
Air, έΑΦ and  the  meat  is  not  Frosted, έΑΦ you  cannot  do  better, 
than  follow  the  old  general  rule  of  allowing  rather  more  than  a 
Quarter  tf  an  hour  to  the  Pound  ;  a  little  more  or  less,  ac- 
cording to  the  temperature  of  the  weather, έΑΦ and  in  proportion 
as  the  piece  is  thick  or  thin,-έΑΦ the  strength  of  the  Fire, έΑΦ the 
nearness  of  the  Meat  to  it, έΑΦ and  the  frequency  with  which  you 
baste  it ;  the  more  it  is  basted,  the  less  time  it  will  take,  as  it 
keeps  the  Meat  soft  and  mellow  on  the  outside,  and  the  Fire 
acts  with  more  force  upon  it. 

Rechon  the  TVme,  not  to  the  hour  when  Dinner  is  ordered 
έΑΦ but  to  the  moment  the  Roasts  will  be  wantedέΑΦ eupposing 
there  are  a  dozen  people  to  sip  Soup  and  eat  Fish  first :  you 
may  allow  them  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  ┬μor  the  former,  and 
about  as  long  for  the  latter,  more  or  less,  Recording  to  the  temp- 
tations the  *'  BoN  Goct"  of  these  preceding  courses  has  to 
attract  their  attention. 

When  the  Joint  is  halfdone^  remove  the  Spit  and  Dripping 
Pan  back,  and  stir  up  your  fire  thoroughly,  that  it  may  burn 
clear  and  bright  for  the  Browning : έΑΦ when  the  steam  from  the 
Meat  draws  towards  the  fire,*  it  is  a  sign  of  its  being  done 
enough;  but  you  will  be  the  best  judge  of  that,  from  the  time 
it  has  been  down,  the  strength  of  the  Fire  you  have  used,  and 
the  distance  your  Spit  has  been  from  it. 

Half  an  hour  before  your  Meal  i$  done^  make  someGRAvr, 
(No.  326)  and  just  before  you  take  it  up,  put  it  nearer  the  fire 
to  brown  it.  If  you  wish  to  froth  it, έΑΦ baste  it,  and  dredge 
it  with  flour  carefully  ;  you  cannot  do  this  delicately  nice,  with' 
oui  a  very  good  light ;  the  common  fault  seems  to  be  using  too 
much  flour ;  the  Meat  should  have  a  fine  light  varnish  of 
Froth  ;  not  the  appearance  of  being  covered  with  a  paste;έΑΦ 


*  When  the  Steaa  bcglai  to  rite,  it  k  a  proof  that  the  whole  joint  it  thoioafhly 
Mtuiated  with  beat ;  aa^.  w>n┬τcriimy  erapontioit  us  wane  of  iho  baft  nowtiihiDeBi 
of  the  meat. 

i 


ROASTING.  8 1 

those  who  are  particular  about  the  Frothy  uu  Butter  instead  of 
Dripping ;  (see  Receipt  to  Roast  a  Turkey^  No.  67  ;) 

**  And  Mnd  up  what  job  Roait,  with  nliili-giTJiif  Froth/* 

says  Dr.  Kio^,  and  present  such  an  agreeable  appearanca  to 
the  Eye,  that  the  palate  may  be  prepossessed  in  its  favoar  at 
first  sight. 

A  Good  Cook  is  as  anxiously  attentive  to  the  appearance 
and  Colour  of  her  Roasts,  as  a  Court  Beauty  is  to  her  Com- 
plexion at  a  Birthday  Ball. 

Though  roasting  is  one  of  the  most  common,  and  is  generally 
considered  one  of  the  most  easy  and  simple  processes  of  Cook- 
ery,έΑΦ it  requires  more  unremitting  attention  to  perform  it  per- 
fectly well,  than  it  does  to  make  most  Made-dishes. 

That  Made-dishes  are  the  most  difficult  preparations,  de- 
serves to  be  reckoned  among  the  Culinary  Vulgar  Errors  ;έΑΦ 
in  Piam  Roasting  and  Boiling,  it  is  not  easy  to  repair  a  mistake 
once  made;*-<aiid  all  the  discretion  and  attention  of  a  steady 
careful  Cook,  must  be  nnremittingiy  upon  the  alert.* 


*A  eehhratodFreneh  writer  has  iriTen  the  (MMtirfDf  obMiv┬╗tian┬╗  ┬τn  roatti^f :┬τ┬╗ 
**  The  Art  of  RoattiBf  Tietuals  to  the  precise  degree,  is  one  of  Uie  roott  difficult  In 
this  world,  aiMl  ynt  may  Jtnd  half  a  tnoutand  gSti  CέΑΦkt  tooner  than  one  perfect 
Roaster*  In  the  mansions  of  the  opulent  they  have  besides  the  Master  Kitchener.έΑΦ 
a  Boaster,  (perfeatly  independent  of  the  former)  who  is  exclusively  devoted  to  the 
Spit. 

"  AU  erudite  Gourmand  know  that  these  two  important  functions  cannot  be  pei^ 
Ibrmed  by  one  artist :  it  U  quite  impossible,  at  the  same  time  tu  superintend  the  op- 
erations of  the  Spit  and  the  Stewpan." έΑΦ Further  on  the  same  author  observes :  **  No 
certain  rules  can  be  given  for  Roasting,  the  perfection  of  it  depending  on  many  eir- 
comstanees  which  are  continually  changing  ;  the  age  and  size  especially  the  thiek- 
nessof  the  pieces,  the  quality  of  the  coals  and  temfteiature  of  the  atmosphere,  the 
current  of  air  in  the  kitchen,  the  more  or  less  attention  of  the  roaster ;  and.  lastly, 
the  time  of  servingsέΑΦSupposing  the  Dinner  ordered  to  be  on  table  at  a  certain  time 
if  the  Fish  and  Soup  are  much  liked,  and  detained  longer  than  the  roaster  has  caJea* 
lated ;  or.  on  the  contrary,  if  they  are  despatched  sooner  than  is  expected,  the  iMsta 
will  in  one  case  he  burnt  up,  in  the  other  not  done  enough έΑΦ two  mufortunes  equally 
to  he  deplored.  The  first,  Ibowever,  is  without  r^aedy  ;  fpoe  minuue  on  the  Spit^ 
mere  or  leu,  decide*  the  goodneet  of  this  mode  of  Cookery  ;έΑΦ it  is  almost  imposnhle  to 
seize  the  precise  instant  when  it  ought  to  be  eaten;  which  Epicures  in  roasts  tsr 
press,  by  saying,  *  It  is  done  to  a  turn,"*  So  that  there  is  no  exaggenitioji  in  iaying┬τ 
the  perfect  Roaster,  is  even  more  rare^than  the  professed  eook. 

**  In  small  fhmilia,  where  the  Cook  is  also  the  Roastef.-^it  is  almost  impossible  tte 
roasts  should  be  well  done ;έΑΦ -the  Spit  cfaims  exclusive  attention,  and  is  an  imperious 
Mistress,  who  demands  the  entire  devotion  of  her  shive.  But  how  can  this  he? 
When  the  Cook  is  obliged  at  the  same  time,  to  attend  her  Fish  and  Soup  ketdes, 
and  watch  her  Stewpansandall  their  aeeompanimenu  iέΑΦ 4tis  morally  and  frfiyueally 
impossible,  if  she  gives  that  delicate  and  constant  attention  to  the  Roasts,  which  is 
indispensaoly  requisite,  the  rest  of  the  Dinner  must  often  be  spoilt;  and  most  Cooks 
would  rather  lose  their  character  as  a  Roaster  than  neglect  the  made-dishes  and  ^  ┬τn- 
tremel*,*  Sec.  where  they  think  they  can  display  their  Culinary  έΑλSctence^έΑΦ than  sacri- 
fice these  to  the  Roasts,  the  perfection  of  which,  will  only  prove  their  steady  Viei- 
lance  and  Faience.**  ^  t  .      .    7     ^ 


f 


d2  ROASTINS. 

A  diligent  atteotioD  to  time, έΑΦ the  distance  of  the  Meat  from, 
and  judicious  inaQagemeat  of  the  Fire,aad  frequent  Bastings,* 
έΑλέΑΦare  ail  ibe  general  rules  we  can  prescribe.  We  shall  deliver 
particular  rules  for  particular  things,  as  the  several  articles  oc- 
cur, and  do  oar  utmost  endeavours  to  instruct  our  reader  as 
completely  as  words  can  describe  the  process,  and  teach  ^ 

"  The  Duuiagemeiit  of  eommon  diingt  lo  well. 

That  what  was  Uioas^ht  the  meanest  ihall  excel ; 

That  Cook*k  to  Britith  palates  most  complete. 

Whose  saT*ry  skill  gires  lest  to  common  meat  > 

For  what  are  yoar  soupsέΑΦ your  ragoutsέΑΦ and  your  sauee. 

Compared  to  the  fareof  0/┬τf  Englandt 

And  oid  Engluh  Rttut  Bee/r* 

*┬τ*  Take  Notice,  that  the  Time  gwen  in  the  following  Re- 
cevptSf  is  calculated  for  tkose,  who  Wee  Meat  thoroughlij 
Roasted,     (See  N.  B.  preceding  No.  19,^ 

Some  good  Housewives  order  very  large  joints  to  be  rather 
under  done έΑΦ as  they  then  make  a  better  Hash  or  Broil. 

To  make  GRAVY  for  Roasts,  see  (No.  326.) 

N.  B.  ROASTS,  must  not  be  put  on,  till  the  Soup  and 
Ft^  are  taken  off  the  Table. 


*OHr  anectton  were  very  particular  in  their  BtuUngtand  DraMngt,  as  will  b┬τ 
seen  by  the  following  quotation  from  **  Mat/*  JcctmplUhed  Cook,**    Condon,  IM^ 


B.  130. έΑΦ **  The  mrest  ways  of  dressing  of  all  manner  of  roast  meats,  either  flesh  or 
fowl,  by  sea  or  land,  and  divers  ways  of  breading  or  dredging  meats  to  prereut  Ihe 
gravy  trom  too  much  eyaporating." 

Dredging*. 

1.  Flour  mixed  with  grated  bread. 

S.  Sweet  herbs  dried  and  powdered,  and  mixed  widi  grated  bread. 

3.  Lemon  peel  dried  and  pounded,  or  orange  peel  mixed  wiA  flour. 

4.  Sugar  finely  powdered,  and  mixed  with  pounded  cinnamon,  and  flour,  or  grated 
bread. 

5.  Fennel  seeds,  eorianden,  cinnamon,  and  sugar,  finely  beaten,  and  mixed  with 
grated  bread  or  flour. 

6.  For  younr  pin,  grated  bread  or  flour  mixed  with  beaten  nntm^,  ginger,  pep- 
per, sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs. 

7.  Sugar,  bread,  and  salt  mixed. 

Batting*. 

1*  Fresh  Butter.  S.  Clarified  suet.  3.  Minced  sweet  hobs,  butter  and  claret,  ┬τέΑλ 
peeially  for  mutton  and  lamb.  4.  Water  and  salt.  8.  Cream  and  melted  butter,  ┬τέΑλ 
pecially  for  a  flayed  pig.   6*  Yolks  of  eggs,  gmted  biteoit,  and  juiae  of  oianges. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY- 


CHAPTER  III. 

FRYING. 

F&TiNO  is  often  a  ooovenieot  mode  of  Cookery, έΑΦ it  may  be 
performed  by  a  fire  which  will  not  do  for  Roasting  or  Broiling  i 
and  by  the  introduction  of  the  Pan  between  the  Meat  and  the 
Fire,  things  get  more  equally  dressed. 

The  Dutch  Oven  or  Bonnbt  is  another  very  convenient 
iitenn\  for  small  things,  and  a  yery  useful  substitute  for  the 
Jack,  tbe  Giidiron,  or  Fryingpan. 

A  Frtinopan  should  be  about  four  inches  deep,  with  a 
perfectly  flat  and  thick  bottom^  \*i  inches  long,  and  0  broad-έΑΦ 
with  perpendicular  sides,  and  must  be  half  filled  with  Fat. 
Goon  Frtihg  is,  in  fact.  Boiling  in  Fat,  To  make  sure  thai 
the  Pan  i$  quite  dean^  rub  a  little  Fat  over  itέΑΦ and  then  make 
it  warm  and  wipe  it  out  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Be  very  particular  in  Frying,  never  to  use  any  Oil,  Butter, 
Lard,  or  Drippings,  but  what  is  quite  clean,  fresh,  and  free 
from  salt.  Any  thing  dirty  spoils  the  look ; έΑΦ any  thing  bad 
tasted  or  stale  spoils  the  flavour; έΑΦ and  salt  prevents  its  Brown- 
ing. 

Fine  Olive  Oi2,  is  the  most  delicate  for  frying ; έΑΦ but  to  have 
the  best  oil  is  very  expensive,  and  bad  oil  spoils  every  thing 
that  is  dressed  with  it. 

For  general  purposes,  and  especially  for  Fish,  dean  fresh 
JLard  is  not  near  so  expensive  as  oil  or  clarified  Butter,  aud 
does  almost  as  well,  except  for  Cutlets  and  (Jollops.  Butter 
often  burns  before  you  are  aware  of  it,  and  what  you  fry  will 
get  a  dark  and  dirty  appearance. 

Cooks  in  large  kitchens,  where  there  is  a  great  deal  of  ffying, 
commonly  use  Mutton  or  Beef  Suet^  clarified,  No.  84 ;  if  from 
the  kidney,  all  the  better. 

Drippings  if  nicely  clean  and  fresh,  is  almost  as  good  as  any 
thing, έΑΦ if  not  clean,  it  may  be  easily  clarified  ;  see  No.  83. 


S4  ,       TRTING. 

Whatever  Fat  you  use,  after  you  have  done  frying,  let  it  re┬τ 
main  in  tiie  Pan  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  pour  it  through  a 
sieve  into  a  clean  basinέΑΦ i<  will  do  three  or  four  limes  as  weU 
a$  it  did  aJt  firsts  i.  e.  if  it  has  not  burned έΑΦ but  Jdem^  the  Fat 
you  have  fried  Fish  in  must  not  be  used  for  any  other  purpose. 
To  know  when  the  Fat  is  of  |i  proper  heat,  according  to 
what  you  are  to  fry,  is  the  great  secret  in  frying. 

To  fry  FrsH,  Parslbt,  Potatoes,  or  any  thing  watery, 
your  Fire  mxat  he  very  clear  and  your  Fai  quite  Ao┬μ,έΑΦ which 
you  may  be  pretty  sure  of,  when  it  is  done  hissing,  and  is  still. 
-┬╗We  cannot  insist  too  strongly  on  this  point : έΑΦ if  the  Fai  ii 
not  very  hot^  you  cannot  fry  Fish  either  to  a  good  colour ^  or 
firm  ofnd  crisp. 

To  be  quite  certain, έΑΦ throw  a  little  bit  of  Bread  into  the 
pan  ;  if  it  fries  crisp,  the  Fat  is  ready :  if  it  burns  the  bread,  it 
is  too  hot. 

2%e  Fire  under  the  pan  must  he  clear  and  sharps  otherwise 
the  fat  is  so  long  before  it  becomes  ready,  and  demands  such 
attendance  to  prevent  the  accident  of  its  catching  fire,*  the  pa┬τ 
tience  of  cooks  is  exhausted,  and  they  frequently,  from  igno- 
rance, or  impatience,  throw  in  what  they  are  going  to  fry,  be- 
fore the  fat  is  half  hot  enough.  Whatever  is  so  fried,  will  be 
pale  and  sodden,  and  offend  the  Palate  and  Stomach,  not  less 
than  the  Eye. 

Have  a  good  light  to  fry  hy^  that  you  may  see  when  you 
have  got  the  right  colour :  a  Lamp  fixed  on  a  stem  with  a 
loaded  foot,  which  has  an  arm  that  will  lengthen  out,  and  slide 
up  and  down  like  a  reading  candlestick,  is  a  most  useful  ap^ 
pendage  to  Kitchen  Fireplaces^  which  are  very  seldom  light 
enough  for  the  nicer  operations  of  Cookery. 

After  all,  if  you  do  not  thoroughly  drain  the  Fat  from  what 
you  havefriedy  especially  Irom  those  things  that  are  full  dressed 
in  Bread-crumbSff  &c. έΑΦ your  Cooking  will  do  you  no  credit 


*  If  this  asfortumtdy  bappeiit,  be  not  in  the  letfst  alarmed,  bat  immediatelr  wet 
a baakec  of  Ashei  and  throw  them  down  Uie  Cbimnej,  and  wet  a  BlanlEet,  ana  hold 
it  elow  all  round  the  Fir^έΑλplaee,έΑΦ as  loon  as  the  earrent  of  wind  is  stooped.έΑΦ the 
Fire  will  be  extinfuisbed  :  wiili  a  CharcMl  Sttne  there  is  no  danfer,  as  the  diame- 
ter of  the  Pan  exceeds  that  of  the  fire. 

t  When  yoQ  want  a  great  many  Bread'Crtambt^  divide  yoar  Loaf  into  three  equal 
parUέΑΦ take  the  middle  or  cmmb-pieeeέΑΦ the  top  and  bottom  will  do  for  table έΑΦ ^in  the 
usual  way  of  cutting  the  erust  is  wasted. 

Oatmeal  is  a  very  satisfhetory,  and  an  eztiemely  eeonomieal  Sobttitute  for  Brew- 
Crumbt.   See  No.  14C. 


FltTlUQ., 


85 


The  DryMsstf  FtsA  depends  mocb  upon  its  baTiog  Iwea 
fned  in  fat  of  a  doe  degree  of  beat,  tbey  are  then  crisp,  aod  dry 
in  a  few  minutes  after  they  are  taken  out  of  tKe  Pan  ;  wbeo 
they  are  not,  lay  tbem  on  a  soft  cloth  before  the  fire,  turniof 
them  occasionally,  till  tbey  arv;-*┬τtbi8  will  sometimes  tak┬τ  15 
minutes :  therefore  always  fry  Fish  as  long  as  thU  before  yoa 
want  tbem,  for  fear  yoa  may  find  this  necessary. 

To  FRY  FISH,  see  iha  Receipt  to  fry  So/ea,  No,  145,  which 
IB  the  only  circumstantial  account  of  the  process  ibai  baa  yel 
been  printed.  If  tbtf  Cook  will  study  it  with  %  Iktto  attMtioo, 
she  must  soon  becpmeao  accomplished  Frier, 

Fkviko>  iboogb  pne  of  the  moat  commoo  of  taU^ary  op┬τci<┬╗ 
tioDs,  is  one  that  ie  lef^t  coromonl]^  psrionsed  pfrfMtly  well* 

8 


1 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  IV, 
BROILNO. 


CLBAKUNBai  is  extremely  esseotial  in  this  mode  of  cookery. 

Keep  your  Gridiron  quite  clean  between  the  bars,  and 
bright  on  the  top ;  when  it  is  hot,  wipe  it  well  with  a  linen 
doth ;  just  before  you  use  it,  rub  the  bars  with  clean  mutton 
suet,  to  prevent  the  Meat  from  being  marked  by  the  gridiron. 

Take  care  to  prepare  your  Fire  in  time,  so  that  it  may  bnm 
quite  clear ;  a  hruk  and  dear  fire  ib  tndupensa62e  ;  or  you 
cannot  give  your  meat  that  browning  which  constitutes  the  per- 
lection  of  this  mode  of  cookery,  and  gives  a  relish  to  food  it 
cannot  reoeire  any  other  way. 

Be  Tery  attentive  to  watch  the  moment  any  thing  is  done ; 
never  hasten  any  thing  that  is  broiling,  lesf  you  should  smoke 
and  spoil  it. 

Let  the  bars  of  the  Gridiron  be  all  hot  through,  but  yet  not 
burning  hot  upon  the  surface ;έΑΦ this  is  the  perfect  and  fine  con- 
dition of  the  Gridiron. 

As  the  bars  keep  away  as  much  beat  as  their  breadth  covers, 
it  is  absolutely  necessary  they  sboald  be  thoroughly  hot  before 
the  thing  to  be  cooked  be  laid  on  them. 

The  Bare  of  Gridirom  should  be  made  concave,  and  termi- 
nate in  a  trough  to  catch  the  Gravy  and  keep  the  Fat  from 
dropping  into  the  fire  and  making  a  smoke,  which  will  spoil 
the  Broil. 

Upright  Gridirons  are  the  best  as  they  can  be  used  at 
any  fire,  without  fear  of  smoke  ;  and  the  gravy  is  preserved  ia 
the  trough  under  them. 

N.  B.  Broils  must  be  brought  to  table  ae  Hot  as  possible : 
set  a  Dish  to  heat  when  you  put  your  Chops  on  the  Gridiron έΑΦ 
from  whence  to  the  Mouth  their  progress  must  be  as  quick  as 
possible. 

When  the  fire  is  not  clear  "the  business  of  the  Gridiien 
may  be  done  by  the  Dutch  Oven  or  Bonnet. 

See  Appendix,  p.  366. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  V. 
VEGETABLES. 


There  is  TwOdng  in  which  the  difference  between  an  Elegant 
and  an  Ordinary  table  is  more  seen,  than  in  the  dressing  of 
Vegetahles,  more  especially  of  Greeos :έΑΦ ┬τtbey  may  be  equally 
aafiDe  at  first,  at  one  place  as  at  another;  but  therr  look  and 
taste  are  afterwards  very  different,  entirely  froio  the  careless  way 
in  wbkh  they  have  been  cooked. 

They  are  in  greatest  perfection  when  in  greatest  plenty,  i,  e, 
when  in  full  season. 

By  Season,έΑΦ I  do  not  mean  those  early  days,  that  luxury  in 
the  6tt2^er3,  and  avarice  in  the  sellers  about  London,  force  the 
various  vegetables  :  but  that  time  of  the  year  in  which  by  na- 
ture and  common  culture,  and  the  mere  operation  of  the  Sun 
and  Climate,  they,  are  in  most  plenty  and  perfection. 

UsaiPB  Yeobtables,  are  as  insipid  and  unwholesome  as 
Unripe  Fiiiits^ 

As  to  the  quality  of  Vegetable^  the  middle  size  are  prefer- 
red to  the  largest  or  the  smallest ; έΑΦ they  are  more  tender,  juicy, 
and  full  of  flavour,  just  before  they  are  quite  full  grown.  Fresh- 
0658  is  their  chief  value  and  excellence,  and  I  should  as  soon 
think  of  roasting  an  Animal  alive,  as  of  boiling  a  Vegetable  af- 
ter it  is  dead. 

The  Eye  easily  discovers  if  they  have  been  kept  too  long ; 
they  soon  lose  their  Beauty  iu  all  respects. 

cots,  Greens,  Salads,  &c.  and  the  various  productions  of 
Grarden,  when  first  gathered,  are  plump  and  firm,  and  have 
grant  freshness  no  art  can  give  them  again,  when  they  have 
it  by  long  keeping ; έΑΦ though  it  will  refresh  them  a  little  to 
them  into  cold  spring  water  for  some  time  before  they  are 
┬τed. 


88  VEGBTABLfiS. 

έΑλ 

To  boi)  them  in  wfi  vxiter  will  preserTa  the  colour  best  of 
such  as  ere  Green  ;  if  you  have  only  hard  water,  put  to  it  a 
tettspoooful  oi  Curi>onate  0/ Potask, 

Take  care  to  voash  and  cleanse  them  thoroughly  from  dusti 
dirt,  and  iusects :  thin  rehires  gretU  aUention  :  pick  oflTall  the 
outside  leaves,  trim  them  nicely,  and  if  not  ^ite  fresh  gathered 
and  have  become  flcccid┬╗*┬τ-it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  restore 
their  crispness  before  cooking  them,  or  they  will  be  tough  and 
unpleasant :  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  clean  water,  with  a  handful  of 
salt  in  it,  for  an  hour  before  you  dress  them. 

**  Most  Vegetables  being  more  or  less  succulent,  their  full 
proportion  of  6uids  is  neeessary  for  their  retaining  that  state 
of  cri^neaa  and  plumpness  which  they  have  when  j^row* 
itig.  On  being  out  or  gaibtredi  the  eJcbaUtion  from  their  sur^ 
face  eontiniMs┬╗  while  from  the  open  έΨ╝eseela  of  the  out  eurfiMsei 
there  is  often  great  exudation  or  efaporation,  and  Ihos  their 
natural  moisture  is  diminished,  the  tender  leaves  heeome  flae- 
eid,  and  the  thicker  masses  or  roots  lose  their  plumpness.  This 
is  not  only  less  pleasant  to  the  Eye,  but  is  a  real  >^ur]r  to  the 
nntritioos  powers  of  the  Tegetable :  for  ia  this  naeeid  and 
shrirelled  state  its  fibres  are  less  easily  divided  in  chewing^ 
and  the  water  which  exists  in  έΨ╝egetabie  substancee,  in  the  form 
of  their  respective  natural  juices,  is  directly  nutricious.  The 
first  care  in  the  preservation  of  succulent  vegetables,  therefore, 
is  to  prevent  them  from  losing  their  natural  moisture/* έΑΦ Sup, 
to  Edinb.  Encydop, 

They  should  always  be  boiled  in  a  saucepan  by  themselves, 
and  have  plenty  of  water :  if  Meat  is  boiled  with  them  in  the 
same  pot,  they  will  spoil  the  look  and  taste  of  each  other. 

If  you  wish  to  have  Vegetables  delicately  clean,  put  on  your 
Pot,  make  it  boil,  put  a  little  salt  in  it έΑΦ and  skim  it  perfectly 
clean  before  you  put  in  the  Greens,  Ssc. έΑΦ which  should  not  be 
put  in  till  the  water  boils  briskly  :  the  quicker  they  boil,  the 
greener  they  will  be ;  when  the  Vegetables  sink,  they  are  gen- 
erally done  enough,  if  the  water  has  been  kept  constantly  boil- 
ing. Take  them  up  immediately j  or  they  wilU  lose  their  colour 
and  goodness.  Drain  the  water  from  them  thoroughly  before 
you  send  them  to  table. 

This  branch  of  Cookery  requires  the  most  vigilant  attention. 

If  Vegetables  are  a  minute  or  two  too  long  over  the  Fire, 
they  lose  all  their  Beauty  and  Flavour. 


VEOKTABI.es.  89 

If  not  thoroughly  hoUed  iendet\  they  art  irenMndoudy  tndi^ 
gestibUj  and  inucb  more  tnmblesome  dnnof;  tiitir  mid┬τDO┬τ  ill 
the  Stomach,  than  uoder^doiM  MaatB.f 

To  preserve,  or  give  colour  in  Cookery,  many  good  disbat 
are  spoiled ;  but  the  rational  Epicure,  who  makes  oonnibvieDt 
the  main  end  of  eating,  will  be  content  to  sacrifice  the  shadow, 
to  enjoy  the  substance.     Vide  Obs,  to  Na  3^% 

Once  for  all,  take  care  your  vegetables  are  fresh ;  for  as  tite 
Fishmonger  often  suffers  tor  the  sins  of  the  Cook,  so  the  Cook 
often  gets  undeservedly  blamed  instead  of  the  Green-grocer.   . 

**  Succulent  Vegetables  are  best  preserved  in  a  cool  shady 
and  damp-  place.  Potatoes,  Turnips,  Carrots,  and  similar 
Roots  intended  to  be  stored  up,  should  never  be  cleaned  from 
the  earth  adhering  to  them*έΑΦ and  must  be  protected  from  the 
action  of  the  air,  and  frost,  by  laying  them  in  heaps,  burying 
them  in  sand  or  earth,  &c.  covering  them  with  straw  or  mats. 

'^  The  action  of  Frost  destroys  the  life  of  the  Vegetable,  and 
it  speedily  rots.*'έΑΦ Sup.  to  Edm6.  Encychpedia. 

N.  &  When  Greens,  Sfc  are  quite  fresh  gathered^  they  will 
not  require  so  much  boiling,  by  at  least  a  third  of  the  time  they 
take,  when  they  have  been  gathered  the  usual  time  those  ara 
that  are  brought  to  public  markets. 

Mr.  Appert  hag  published  his  simple  and  unexpensive  pro- 
cess of  preserving  fresh,  both  animal  and  vegetable  foods,  from 
the  season  of  produce,  through  the  season  of  scarcity,  in  their 
full  flavour  and  excellence,  merely  by  applying  heat  in  a  due 
degree  to  the  several  sobttanees,  after  having  deprived  them  of 
all  contact  with  the  external  air. 

There  is  not  a  Mistress  of  a  Family  who  is  rich  enough  to 
lay  by  a  stock  of  these  Articles,  and  not  too  rich  to  despise 
Economy,  who  will  not  be  benefitted  by  the  perusal  of  Mr. 
Appert*s  Book,  l^mo.  1819,  or  purchase  La  Chime  dwGout, 
9  torn.  Paris┬╗  1919. 


t  **  Cmliflowert-Mid^her  V┬τge(aibte*  ai┬τ  often  boikd  only  crisp  to  pTcteire  their 
Beauty.  For  the  look  alono  they  hail  hetter  not  he  boiled  at  all,  and  aJmost  ai  well 
Ibr  di┬╗  we.  at  in  this  enide  itatetbey  axe  tcareely  d'fgettibla  by  the  ttroDfrett  stom- 
aeb.  On  the  other  hand,  wh'en  oter  boiled,  they  beeoone  vapid,  and  in  a  state  simi- 
lar to  decay,  in  vhieb  theyaflbrdia┬╗┬τw┬τetpiirifyiDgJUiccitotbe  h<ti9y.  but  load 
H  with  ft  BUMof  neva  IbeokBt  natttr.**  ' 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY, 


CHAPTER  VI. 


FISH. 

Tais  departmeot  of  the  business  of  the  Kitchen  reqairev 
considerable  experience,  and  depends  more  upon  practice  than 
any  other ;έΑΦ a  very  few  moments^  more  or  less  will  thoroughly 
spoil  Fish  f ;  which  to  be  eaten  in  perfection,έΑΦ 'mast  never  be 
put  on  the  Table,  till  the  Soup  is  taken  off. 

So  many  circumstances  operate  on  thisoccasion^.it  is  almost 
impossible  to  write  general  rules. 

There  are  decidedly  difl^nt  opinions,  whether  Fish  should 
be  put  into  cold,  tepid,  or  boiling  water. 

We  beliere  for  some  of  the  fame  the  Dutch  Cooks  have  ac┬τ 
qnired  they  are  a  little  indebted  to  their  situation,  affordiog 
them  a  plentiful  bupply  of  Fresh  Fish  for  little  more  than  the 
trouble  of  catching  it  :~and  that  the  superior  excellence  of  the' 
fish  in  Holland,  is  because  none  are  used,  unless  they  are 
brought  alive  into  the  Kitchen,  (Mackerel  excepted,  which  die 
the  moment  they  are  taken  out  of  the  water.)  The  Dutch  are  as 
nice  about  this,  as   Seneca  says  the  Romans  %  were ;  who, 

t  When  the  Cook  hat  large  diUMn  to  piCMre  and  the  tioie  of  wrvinf  aneertain* 
έΑλhe  will  gtt  more  opedit  hj  Fritt^  (No.  lif^  or  slewed,  (No.  104,)  than  by  Boikd 
Fish. 

Mr.  Ude,  page  238  of  his  Codtary,  advises,  **  If  yon  are  obKjeed  to  wait  after  ^ 
Fish  is  done,  do  not  let  it  remain  in  the  water,  but  keep  the  water  Doilinr,  and  put  the 
^sh  over  it,  and  eorer  it  wich  a  damp  elothέΑΦ when  the  dinner  is  called  for,  dip  the 
tlsh  again  in  the  water,  and  serve  it  up.** 

The  only  cireumstaatial  instraetioas  yet  printed  for  Frying  Fuh,  the  Reader  will 
find  in  (No.  148:)  if  this  he  carefblty  and  nicely  attended  to,  you  will  have  deliekras 
cod,  and  let  the  Fish  Eater,  remember  the  EpUmpk  tftke  Murician  at  MarteiUei^ 

whieh  bdnr  read  aetordinf  to  the  French  OenuiC  and  pNnonciatios-ii  Lt^-S^te 
έΑΦLa-'MU^La, 


X  They  had  Water  nretervet  for  feeding  diflbrent  kinds  of  Sea  fish,  Uiose  in  the 
rads  ^Laeullos,  at  his  death,  sold  Ibr  tifiitM,  sterling.    The  nrolifie  power  of 
^ish  is  wonderful  tέΑΦ the  folloiriag  ealealationt  are  fhan  fwt,  Bloch,  and  Lea#enr 


ponds 
Fish 
bock* 


A  Salmon  of  80  pounds  weight  wmtained  -  - S7,850  eggt 

A  middling  sized  Pike 148,000 

A  Bfackocl  ^.-^ ┬╗40^l 

ACod 9,894,000 


FtSH.  91 

comptainiDg  of  the  laxury  of  the  times,  aays,  "  tbey  are  Gomo 
to  tbe  dainiUciets,  that  they  will  oot  eat  a  FUh,  unless  upon  the 
same  day  that  it  is  taken,  that  it  may  taste  of  the  sea,  as  they 
express  it.'* 

Od  the  Dutch  flat  coast,  the  Fish  are  taken  with  nets ;  on 
our  rocky  coast  tbey  are  mostly  caught  by  bait  and  hook, 
which  instantly  kills  tbenu  Fish  are  brought  alive  by  land,  to 
the  Dutch  markets,  in  waier-casks  with  air  holes  in  the  top.-~ 
Salmon,  and  other  fish  are  thus  preserved  in  rivers,  in  a  well- 
hole,  in  the  fishing-boat. 

Fish  of  evert  kind  are  best  some  time  before  they  be┬τ 
gin  to  spawnέΑΦ and  are  unfit  for  food  for  some  time  after  they 
have  spawned. 

The  most  convenient  Utejuil  to  boil  Pish  yVi,  is  a  Turbo  r- 
Kettlb,-έΑΦ this  should  be  %4  inches  long,  29  wide,  and  9  deep. 
It  is  an  excellent  vessel  to  boil  a  Ham  in,  Sue.  &c┬τ 

The  good  folks  of  this  Metropolis  are  so  often  disappointed, 
by  having  Fish  which  have  been  kept  too  long, έΑΦ that  they  aro 
apt  io  run  into  the  other  extreme,  and  suppose  that  Fish  will 
not  dress  well,  unless  it  is  absolutely  alive.  This  is  true  of  Iiob┬τ 
sters,  &c.  (No.  176)  and  may  be  of  Fresh  water  fish,  but  cer- 
tainly not  of  some  Sea  Fish. 

Several  respectable  Fishinongers  and  experienced  Cooks 
have  assured  the  Editor,  that  they  are  often  in  danger  of  losing 
their  credit,  by  fish  too  fresh,  and  especially  Turbot  and  C^, 
which,  like  Meat,  require  a  certain  time  before  they  are  io  the 
best  condition  to  be  dressed  :-έΑΦ they  recommend  them  to  be  put 
into  Cold  f^ateVf  SaUed  in  proportion  of  about  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water,-- -Sea  fVater  is  best  to  boil 
Sea  fish  in,έΑΦ and  let  them  boil  slowly  till  done  ;  the  sign  of 
which  kf  that  the  skin  of  the  Fish  rises  up,  and  the  Eyes  turn 
white. 

It  is  the  business  of  the  Fishmonger  to  clean  them,  &c.  but 
the  careful  Cook  will  always  wash  them  again. 

XjlARMisH,withslices  of  Lemon, έΑΦ finely  scraped  Horseradish, 
έΑΦfried  Oysters,  (No.  183)έΑΦ Smelts  (No.  173)έΑΦ or  Whitings, 
(No.  153.) 

The  Ldvevy  Aoe,  and  Chitterlings^  should  be  placed  so  that 
he  Carver  may  oExserve  them  and  invite  the  Quests  to  partako 
>f  them. 

N.  B.  FisBy  like  Msat  requires  fnore  cookifig  in  cold  than 


92  FISH. 

t┬╗  warm  toeather; έΑΦ if  it  becomes  frozen**  it  mast  be  tbewed 
by  the  means  we  have  diieeted  for  Meat,  ia  the  5lb  page  of  the 
%d  Chapter  of  the  Rudimeats  of  Cookery.  See  Observa^ 
tionif  after  (No.   182.) 

FISH  SAUCES. 

The  MELTED  Butter,  (No.  256,)  for  Fish,  should  be  thick 
enough  to  adhere  to  the  Fish,  and,  therefore,  must  be  of  tho 
thickness  of  light  Batter,  as  it  is  to  be  diluted  with  Essence  op 
Anchovt,  (No.  433.) 

Sot.  No.  436.  Mushroom  Catsup,  No.  439.  Cayennx, 
No.  404,  or  Chili  Vinegar,  No.  405.  Lemons  or  Lem- 
on Juice,  or  Jlrtijicidl  Lemon  Juice,  see  No.  407*,  &c,  are 
expected  at  all  well  served  Tables. 

Cooks,  who  are  jealous  of  the  reputation  of  their  Taste,  and 
Housekeepers  who  value  their  Health,  wiil  prepare  theae  arti- 
cles at  home  ; έΑΦ there  are  quite  as  many  reasons  why  they 
^ould,  as  there  are  for  the  pfefereoce  usually  given  to  Home" 
baked  Bread,  and  Home-brewed  Beer-^j  Sec,  see  Accum  oo 
Adulterations  of  Bread,  Beer,  Wine,  Tea┬τ  Coffee.  Yin┬τ 
EGAR,  Mustard,  Pepper,  &c.  '^  Indeed  it  would  be  diffi* 
cult  to  mentioD  a  single  article  of  food  which  is  not  to  be  met 
with  in  an  adulterated  state  ;  and  there  are  some  which  are 
scarcely  ever  to  be  procured  genuine."  l^mo.  1820,  pagjs  3, 
2nd  Edition. 

Ns  B.  The  Lvoer  of  the  Fisb^  pounded,  and  mixed  with 
Parsley  and  Butter,  with  a  little  Lemon  Juice,  8tc,  is.  an/  ele- 
gant and  inoffensive  relish  to  Fish.  See  (No.  983.)  Mush┬τ 
ROOM  Sauce  Extempore^  (No.  307,)  the  Soup  of  Mock  Turtle 
(No.  947,)  will  make  an  excellent  Fish  Sauce.    . 

On  the  comparative  attractive  qualities  of  Fish,  see  N.  B.  to 
(No.  181.) 


*FUh  it  rvrj  freqsfntly  tent  home  ftosea  bytlM  FidraMmKar,  to  whom  an, /┬τ┬╗> 
hoiue  U  now  u  Decenary  an  appendage  (to  pieterre  Fi┬τb)έΑΦ >as  it  is  to  a  CoBfectiomer. 

t  See  Aeeum  on  Brewing^lSmo.  189<h-έΑΦ and  **  Home  Breved  Ale,**  fay  a  Hoote- 
keeper,  Robinion,  1804,  in  page  18 :  our  Honteke^per  telU  u*,  that  **  a  poor  widow 
in  bis  neigbbbonrnood,  has  fitted  up  a  Braoery.  for  the  sam  of  eU^hUcn  pente  Her' 
ling  I  A  batter  tub  (priee  nine  pence)  is  her  masb-tub.  three  half  tun  of  smaller  sise, 
(at  three  Pence  eaxh)  are  her  coolersέΑΦ with  these  she  brews  half  a  boshel  of  malt  at  a 
time,  ai|4  deelares  that  she  finds  her  Home  Brewed  Ale.**  veiyctrnftrtB^  MtttP*-' 
Sm.  alMi  BawliaMB  oa  BcevlBff  MSU  IJvn┬τj/kr.  X>MW|||p  Vff^ 


RUDIMKNTS  OF  COOKERY. 

έΨι"έΨιέΨι      '  i     έΨι       I     έΨι      !έΨιέΨι       I  έΨι     I.II      I  . 

CHAPTER  VII. 
BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

έΑλ 

Tab  Cook  must  pay  cootiaoal  attention  to  the  condition  of 
her  stewpansf  and  Soup-kettles,  &c  which  should  be  exam* 
iaed  every  time  they  are  used.  The  prudent  Houaewife  will 
carefuUy  eramine  t4e  condition  vf  (ton  henelf  at  Uaxt  once  ┬τ 
JMniiu  Their  Covers  also  must  be  kept  perfectly  dean  and 
'WeU  ttMiedt  and  the  Stewpana  not  only  oo  the  insidei  bat  about 
a  omiple  of  iDches  on  the  outside ;  many  mischiefs  arise  from 
Uiair  fitiing  out  of  repair,έΑΦ >aDd  ^  nel  ilrept  mcWy  tmiied┬╗  all 
vmr  good  foori  will  6e  in  vein  ;  the  Broths  and  Soupa  wilt 
look  green  aad  diny,*^aste  bitter  and  poisonous,  and  will  be 
ipoiiod  both  for  the  ┬μyo  and  Palate,  and  your  oredit  will  be 
met* 

TV  Health)  add  even  Life  of  the  ftimily  depends  upon  tbis^ 
and  fhe  Cook  may  be  sure,  her  employers  had  rather  pay  the 
TinnJtan's  bill  than  the  Doctor's ;  therefore,  attention  to  this 
cannot  fail  to  enga^  the  regard  of  the  Mistress,  between  whom 
and  the  Cook,  it  will  be  my  utmost  endeavour  to  promote  per- 
fect harmony. 

If  a  servant  has  the  misfortune  to  scorch  or  blister  the  tir^ 
^^n$  of  her  PanX^  which  will  happen  sometimes  to  the  most 
careful  Cook,έΑΦ *I  advise  her  by  all  means  immediately  to  ao- 
quaint  her  employers,  who  will  thank  her  for  candidly  mention- 
ing such  an  accident;  and  censure  her  deservedly  if  she  conceal  it. 

Take  care  to  be  properly  provided  with  Sieves  and  Tammt 
cloths.  Spoons,  and  LADLBS,*-make  it  a  rule  MoiikovJt  an  ex- 
ception,  never  to  use  them  till  they  are  well  cleaned,  and  thor- 
oughly dried,έΑΦ nor  any  Stewpaks,  &c.,  without  first  washing 
them  out  with  boiling  water,  and  rubbing  them  well  with  a 
dry  cloth  and  a  little  bran,  to  clean  them  from  grease,  sand,^c. 


t  We  prefer  tlie  fbnu  of  έΑλ  StewMo.to  the  Swi^iMit,έΑΦ the  fbrmer  it  more  eonreft 
icnt  to  tluro ;  the  laottj^ai  sixe  m  13  ioehe*  diamtier  by  6  iaehet  ileep :  this  ┬τ┬τ 
woaldhftTe  tilTerfCir  Iron, or  Copper  lined  (not  plated)  with  Silver. 

i  TUf  may  te  ┬τh*ay#  mtMed  ky  8f ┬τwn┬τft|r  V**^  mcof  in  tht  Fryingpan^-ik  tt 
the  hrvwBfaiaef  OtO  mm  that  dctttoy*  the  Stewpaa. 


94  BROTHS    AND  SOUPS, 

or  any  bad  smeU  tbey  may  have  got  since  tbey  were  last  used  : 
never  neglect  ibis. 

Though  we  do  not  suppose  our  Cook  to  be  such  a  naughty 
Slut,  as  to  wilfully  neglect  her  Broth  Pots,  Sec,  yet  we  oiay 
recommend  her  to  wash  them  immediately^  and  take  care  they 
are  thoroughly  dried  before  the  fire,  before  they  are  pot  by, 
and  to  keep  them  in  a  dry  place^for  damp  will  rust  and  de- 
stroy them  very  soon  :  attend  to  this  the  first  moment  you  can 
spare  after  the  dinner  is  sent  up  :  never  put  by  any  jSoup,  Gnr 
wj^Sbc,  in  a  metal  utensil;  in  which,  never Iteep any  thtog 
longer  than  is  absolutely  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  Cookery, 
the  acid,  vegetables,  and  fat,  &c.  employed  in  making  them 
are  capable  of  dissolving  them  ;  therefore  stone  or  earthen  ves- 
selsshould  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Stbwpavs  and  Sovp*pots,  with  thick  and  round  bottoms, 
(such  as  saucepans  are  made  with)  will  wear  twice  as  long,  and 
are  cleaned  with  half  the  trouble,  as  those  whose  sidea  are 
soldered  to  the  bottom,  of  which  Sand  and  Grease  get  into 
the  joined  parti  and  it  is  next  to  an  impossibility,  to  dislodge 
it.  The  ifiditor  claims  the  credit  of  having  first  suggested  the 
importance  of  this  construction  of  these  utensils. 

Take  care  that  the  Lids  fit  as  close  as  possible,  that  the 
Broth,  Soup,  and  Sauces,  &c*  may  not  waste  by  evaporation* 
They  are  good  for  nothing,  unless  they  fit  tight  enough  to  keep 
the  Steam  in,  and  the  Smoke  out. 

Stewpans  and  saucepans  should  be  always  bright  on  the  up- 
per rim  where  the  fire  does  not  burn  them :  but  to  scour  them 
all  over,is  not  only  giving  the  Cook  needless  trouble,  but  wear- 
ing out  the  vessels. 

Cultivate  habits  of  regularity  and  cleanliness,  &c.  in  all  your 
business,  which  you  will  then  get  through  easily  and  comfort- 
ably. I  do  not  mean  the  .restless  spirit  of  Molidusta^  *'  the  Ti" 
dy  Onty*  who  is  always  frisking  about,  in  a  whirlpool  of  bustle 
and  confusion ;  and  is  always  dirty,  under  pretence  of  being 
always  cleaning. 

Lean  juicy  Beef,έΑΦ Mutton, έΑΦ or  Veal, έΑΦ form  the  basis  of 
Broth: έΑΦ procure  those  pieces  which  afford  the  most  and  he 
richest  succulence,  and  as  fresh  killed  as  possible^.  See  Tbe 
Marketing-Tablbs  at  the  end  of  this  work. 


t  In  nnenil,  it  hu  been  eootidered  the  best  Eeonomy  to  nie  the  ebeapeit  tnd 
Buwt  inferior  meeti  tbt  Soup,  &e.  and  to  bo.l  it  down  till  it  ii  cnCiiely  dntrajcd,  tnd 
herdijr  werth  patting  in  the  Hog^tub.  This  itm  fiilie  Frugality ;  buy  g9cd  ptecet 
1^  HuottVnd  ttUy  Hevf  them  till  they  mx  4ene  ennigh  te  be  eaien* 


IROTBS   AND  SOtJPS.  td 

Stale  meat  will  make  your  broth  grouty  and  bad  tasted,  and 
Fat  meat  is  only  wasted.  This  ooly  applies  to  those  Broths 
which  are  required  to  be  perfectly  clear :  we  shall  show  herea^ 
ter,  in  (No.  ^29,)  that  Fat  and  Clarified  Drippings  may  be  so 
conibined  with  Vegetable  Mucilage,  as  to  afford,  at  the  small 
έΑλost  of  ONE  Penny  per  Quart,  a  nourishiog,  aod  palateable 
Soap,  faily  adequate  to  satisfy  Appetite,  aod  support  strength : 
this  will  open  a  new  source  to  those  beoevoleot  boosekeeperSt 
who  are  disposed  to  relieve  the  Poor, έΑΦ and  show  the  iodos* 
trioQS  classes  how  much  they  hare  it  in  their  power  to  assist 
themselves,  and  rescue  them  from  being  objects  of  Charity  d^- 
pendent  on  the  precarious  bounty  of  ol]bers,<έΑΦ by  teaching  them 
how  to  obtain  a  cheap,  abundant,  salubrious,  and  agreeable  all* 
ment  for  themselves  and  families. 

Th\s  Soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  easily  and  very 
soon  made,  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm  a  room 
έΑΦthose  who  have  not  tasted  ft,  cannot  imagine  what  a  salobri- 
oas,  savoury  and  satisfying  Meal  is  produced  by  the  jndieioQS 
eombinatioo  of  cheap  homely  ingredients. 

Scotch  Barley  Broth,  (904)  will  furnish  a  Good  Dinner 
ofSoopand  Meat  for  Five^pence  per  ffeod^  Pease  Soup 
(331)  will  cost  only  Six'pence  per  Qtutrt^  ()z-Tail  Soup 
i%40')  or  the  same  Portable  Soup,  (352)  for  Five^pence  per 
Quare,  and  (331)  an  ezoellent  Qravy  Soup  for  FourHMnce 
halfpenny  per  Quart  Duck  Giblet  Soup  (334)  for  Three 
pence  per  Quart,  and  Fowlb*  Head  Soup  in  the  same  manner 
for  still  less.  No.  339  will  give  you  a  good  and  plentiful 
Dinner  for  Six  people  for  Tiro  Shillings  and  Twopence, 
See  also  Shin  op  Beep  stewed,  (493)  and  Alauobb  Beep 
(503). 


BROTH  HERBS,  SOUP  ROOTS,  AND  SBASONINOS. 


Scotch  Barley,  204, 

Pearl  barlejr, 

Flour^ 

Oatmeal,  672, 

Bread, 

Raspings, 

Peas, 

Beans, 


Rice, 

Vermicelli, 

Maccaroni, 

Isinglais, 

Potato  mucilage,  448, 

Mashrooms*  439, 

ChamptgaoDf, 

Parsnips,  213 , 


*  ITiuArMm  CaUup^  mad┬τ  at  439  or  440,  will  sniwer  all  the  pnrMte  of  Maihrooaui 
iiiso┬τporM┬τee,4n<l  no  ftore-c^shouMd*  wittevta  itvck  tf  It. 


9^ 


mOTHS   AND    SOUPS. 


Carrots,  212, 

Beet  roots, 

Turnips,  208, 

Garlick, 

Shallota,  see  402, 

Onions,* 

Leeks, 

Cucumber  >f 

Celery,  214, 

Celery  8eed,t 

Cress  seed,  see  397,|| 

Parsley ,11  see  N.  B.  to  261, 

Common  Thyme,|| 

Lemon  Thyme, || 

Orang^e  Thyme,  || 

Knotted  Maijorum,||  417, 


Sare,|f 
Mint,  898, 
Winter  Savoury  ,|| 
Sweet  Basi],||  397, 
Bay  leaves, 
Tomatoe, 
Tarragon,  996, 
ChervU, 
Burnet,  399, 
AU8pice,┬π  412 
Cinnamon,  ┬π416,* 
Ginger ,┬π  411, 
Nutmeg,┬π 
Clove,  414, 
Mace, 
Black  pqiper. 


*  All  Cooks  agree  in  titis  opinion, 
JVo  aavowy  dxA  witkout  m%  Omoir. 

Sliced  Onionifriedf  see  No.  299,  and  note  under  No.  517,  with  some 
batter  and  flour,  till  they  are  browned,  and  nMI>bed  through  a  sieve, 
are  excellent  to  heighten  tbe  colour  and  flavour  of  brown  soups  and 
sauces,  and  form  the  basis  of  most  of  tbe  Belisbes  furnished  by  Uie 
RestaurateursέΑΦ M  we  guess  from  the  odour  which  ascends  from  their 
Kitchens,  and  salutes  our  olfactory  nerves  en  passant. 

The  older  and  drier  the  Onion,  the  stronger  its  flavour,  and  the 
Cook  viU  regulate  the  quantity  she  uses  aceordingly. 

f  Bomet  has  exactly  the  saoke  flavour  as  Cacumber,'┬τHMe  Boraet 
Vinegar,  No.  399. 

t  The  coiiceBtration  of  flavour  in  Cslxbt  and  C^ss  Sszn  it 

such,  that  half  a  drachm  of  it^nei^  pounded^  er  double  the  quanti^ 
if  not  ground  or  pounded,  easting  miy  one-third  of  a  Farthing  wiu 
impregnate  half  a  gallon  of  soup  with  almost  as  much  relish  as  two 
or  thi^  beads  of  the  fresh  vegetable,  weighing  seven  ounces  and 
costing  7\ro-penee.  This  valuable  acquisition  to  the  Soup-pot  de┬τ 
serves  to  be  universally  known.  See  also  No.  409,  Essence  of  Csi^- 
RT.  This  is  the  most  frugal  Relish  we  have  to  introduce  to  the  Econ- 
omistέΑΦ but  that  our  judgment  in  Falalics  may  not  be  called  in  ques- 
tion by  our  fellow  mortals,  who  as  the  Craniologists  say,  happen  to 
have  the  Organ  of  Taste  stronger  than  tbe  Organ  of  AccumulaJtive- 
nesSf  we  must  confess,  that,  with  the  flavour,  it  does  not  impart  the 
delicate  sweetness,  kc.  of  the  fresh  Vegetable :  and  when  used,  a  bit 
of  sugar  should  accompany  it. 

II  See  No.  419  and  No.  420,  and  469.  Fresh  green  Basil  is  sel- 
dom to  be  procured.  When  dried,  much  of  its  fine  flavour  is  lost, 
which  is  fully  extracted   by  pouring  wine  on  the  fresh  leaves,  397. 

To  procure  and  preserve  the  flavour  of  swket  and  satourt 
HERBS,  celery,  he,  these  must  be  dried,  &c.  at  home.  See  (4t7*~an4' 
461.) 

┬π  See  (No.  421)  and  (No.  467.) 


BROTHS   AKD  SOUFS.  97 

i^mon^peelf  407  ┬τad  406,  J    Seville  oniiife-jaicC)f 

White  pepper,  |    Essence  of  Ancherji  488. 

Lemon-juice/  | 

The  abore  materials έΑΦ Wine  and  Moshroom  Cttiop,  (No* 
439,)  coinbined  io  various  proportioDSy┬τ^will  make  an  cndleai 
Tariety}  of  excellent  Broths  aod  Soups,  quite  as  pteasant  to  tht 
Palate,  and  as  useful  and  agreeable  to  the  Stomacb,  as  con- 
^sumiog  Pheasants  and  Partridges,  and  the  long  list  of  ioflaai- 
matory  piquantCj  and  rare  and  costly  articles,  reconnneoded 
.by  former  Cookery-book  makers,  whose  elaborately  compound* 
ed  Soups,  are  like  their  Made  BiBkes  ;  io  which,  though  va- 
riety is  aimed  at,  every  thing  has  ike  same  Taste, έΑΦ and  nothifig 
its  own. 


*  If  you  have  not  fresh  orange  or  Lxhon  JuicK,  or  CozweO's  eryt- 
tallised  Lemoa  Acid,  the  arHfieisi  Lem&njmeey  fNo.  407)  it  a  f^ood 
^substitute  for  it. 

f  Thejtiee  of  the  Sethlc  ORAivGais  to  be  preferred  tothat  of  tbe 
Lemon f έΑΦ the  Flavour  i┬╗  finer  and  the  Aold  nUder. 

t  The  erudite  editor  of  the  ^inumach  des  Geurmandt^  tells  us,tiHit 
ten  folio  volumes  would  not  contain  the  Receipts  of  all  the  SkMips 
that  have  been  invented  in  that  Grand  School  of  Good  Eating,  the 
Parisian  Kitchen. 

We  add  the  following  Directions  for  Soup-makiit'o  from  the  cele- 
brated French  Chemist,  Pabmestixr  : 

Regies  generates  pour  la  Preparation  des  BoyUkms  Alimenimres. 

1.  Viande  saine,  et  convenablement  saignee. 

2.  Vaisseaux  de  terre,  de  preference  k  ceux  de  m^tal,  parce  que 
les  premiers  sont  moins  conducteurs  de  la  chalear,  et  4|a'une  fois 
dcbaaffes,  an  peu  de  cendre  chaude  entretient  T^bullition  l^g^re  qae 
I'on  desire. 

8.  Eau  en  quantity  double  du  poids  k  celle  de  la  viande  employ^. 

4.  Saffisante  quantite  de  set  commun  pour  facHiter  la  s^paratiea 
de  ralbumine,  ainsi  que  sa  coagulation  sous  forme  d'^cume. 

5.  Temperature  capable  de  porter  le  melange  k  T^bulUtion  pen* 
dant  tout  le  temps  que  T^cui&e  ce  rassemblera  k  la  surface  du  Kquide, 
et  qu'on  aura  soin  d'en  s^parer  exactement. 

6.  Temperature  plus  basse  apr^s  i'optfration  pr<$c^dente,  et  tou- 
jours  constante,  afin  qite  le  Uquide  ne  Oisse  que  fr^mir  l^g^rement, 
pour  donner  le  temps  aux  sabstances  nutritives,  colorantes  et  extrac- 
tives, contenues  dans  I'ordre  qui  convient  k  leur  solubility/'-έΑΦ ┬τPar- 
MEKTiER,  Code  Pharmaceuiiqy^f  1811,  p.  444. 

9 


98  BROTHS    AND   SOUPS. 

The  general  fauU  of  our  En┬τli&h  Soups,  seems  to  he  the 
employment  of  an  excess  of  Spice,  and  too  smaU  a  prt^ortion 
of  Roots  and  Herbs.* 

Besides  the  Ingredfeots  I  have  eDumerated,  many  Culinary 
scribes  indiserimiDateiy  cram  into  almost  every  Dish  (in  such 
inordinate  Quantities,  one  would  suppose  they  were  working 
for  the  as6estos-palate  of  an  Indian  Fire- Eater)  Anchovies, 
Garlick,+  Bay  leaves,  and  that  hot  fiery  spice  Cayenne%  pepper* 
This  which  the  French  call  (not  understood)  Piment  enrage, 
(404,)  has  somehow  or  other,  unaccountably  acquired  a  charac- 
ter for  being  very  wholesome, έΑΦ whilst  the  milder  Peppers  and 
Spices  are  cried  down,  as  destroying  the  sensibility  of  the  Pa* 
late  and  Stomach,  &c.  and  being  the  source  of  a  thousand  mis- 
chiefs. We  should  just  as  soon  recommend  Alcohol  as  be- 
ing less  intoxicating  than  Wine. 

The  best  thing  that  has  been  said  in  praise  of  Peppers  is, 
*^  that  with  all  kinds  of  Vegetables,  as  also  with  Soups  (espe- 
cially vegetable  soups)  and  Fish,  either  Black  or.  Cayenne 
Pepper  may  be  taken  freely  :  they  are  the  most  useful  stimu- 
lants to  Old  Stomachs,  and  often  supersede  the  cravings  for 
strong^drinks ;  or  diminish  the  quantity  otherwise  required." 
See  Carlisle  on  Old  Age,  A  certain  portion  of  Condiment 
is  occasionally  serviceable  to  excite  and  keep  up  the  languid 
action  of  feeble  and  advanced  Life;  we  must  increase  the 
stimulus  of  our  aliment  as  the  irritability  of  our  system  increases. 
We  leave  those  who  love  these  things,  to  use  them  as  they  like  ; 
their  flavours  can  be  very  extemporaneously  produced  by 
Chilly-juice,  or  Ctosence  of  Cayenne  (405,)  Eshallot  wine 
(40^,)  and  Essence  of  Anchovy  (433.) 


*  **  Point  de  LegumeSi  point  de  Cuisiniere*^  it  a  favourite  culinary  adage  of  the 
French  kitchen ;  and  deserves  to  be  so;  a  better  soup  maybe  made  withaooaple 
of  pounds  of  Meal  and  plenty  of  V^;etables,  than  our  common  cooks  will  make  yoa 
with  four  times  that  quantity  of  meat}  all  for  want  of  knowing;  the  uses  of  Soup 
roots,  and  Sweet  and  Savoury  herbfc 

t  l^Iany  a  good  dish  is  spoiled,  by  the  cook  not  knowing  the  proper  use  of  this, 
which  is  to  give  a  flavour,  and  not  to  be  predominant  over  the  other  ingredients :  a 
morsel  mashed  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  stirred  in,  is  enough.    See  (No.  4(^0 

X.  Foreigners  have  strange  notions  of  English  Taste,  on  which  one  of  their  Culi- 
nary Professors  has  made  the  following  comment :  **^The  m^gau  of  Taste  m  these 
Jtlanders  is  very  difterent  from  our  Delicate  Palatet^tmd  sauce  that  would  eaccori* 
ate  the  palate  of  a  Frenchman,  would  bebaixily  pioi/anfe  enough  to  make  any  im- 
pression on  that  of  an  Englishman  ; έΑΦ thus, they  prefer  Port  to  Claret,**  &c.  As  far 
as  concerns  our  Dhnking,  we  wish  there  was  not  quite  so  much  truth  in  Monsieur** 
i┬τmarks  ;  but  the  characteristic  of  the  Fi┬τnch  aiM  English  kitchen ┬╗ is  Sauce  rotth- 
4ntt  Subftance^^And  Substance  tvithout  Sauce, 

To  make  Cayenne  of  English  Chillies  of  infinitely  finer  flavour  than  the  Indian, 
soe(No.404.) 


BROTHS    AND    SOUPS.  99. 

There  is  no  French  Dinner  without  Soup,  wBich  is  regard- 
ed as  an  imiispensable  Overture; έΑΦ ^it  is  commonly  followed 
by  '*  te  Coup  d^ApreSy^  a  Glass  of  pure  Wine,  which  they 
consider  so  wholesome  after  Soup,  that  their  Proverb  says,  tlie 
Physician  thereby  loses  a  Fee.     Whether  the  glass  of  Wine 
be  so  much  noiore  advantageous  for  the  Patient  than  it  is  for  his 
Doctor,  we  know  not,  but  believe  it  an  excellent  plan  to  begin 
the  Banquet  with  a  basin  of  good  Soup,  which,  hy  moderat- 
ing the  Appetite  for  solid  Animal  food,  is  certainly  a  salutife- 
rous  custom.     Between  the  Rocuta  aod  the  EntremelSt  they  in- 
troduce ^'  le  Coup  du  MUieUf^  or  a  small  glass  of  Jamaica 
JHum,  or  Essence  of  Punchy  see  (471)  ;  or  Cura^oa  (474.) 

It  is  a  custom  which  almost  universally  prevails  in  the 
l^OTtbern  parts  of  Europe,  to  present  a  Dram  or  glass  of  Li- 
^eur,  before  sitting  down  to  Dinner  :  this  answers  the  double 
purpose  of  a  whet  to  the  Appetite,  and  an  announcement  that 
Dioner  is  oo  the  point  of  being  served  up.  Along  with  the 
Dram,  is  presented  on  a  waiter,  little  square  έΑλ  pieces  of  Cheese^ 
slices  of  cold  Tongue,  and  dried  Tongue,  and  dried  Toast,  ac- 
companied with  fresh  Caviar, 

We  again  caution  the  Cook  to  avoid  Che r^  Seasonings  e^ 
pecially  with  predominant  flavours,  which,  however  agreeable 
they  may  be  to. some,  are  more  e.xtremely  disagreeable  to 
others,  see  page  5% 

Zest  (255,)  Soy   (436,)  Cavice,  Coracb,  Anchovy,  (433,) 
Curry  powder  (455,)  Savory   Ragout  Powder  (457,)  Soup 
-Herb   Powder  (459)  and  (460,)   Browning  (322,)  Catsupe 
(432,)  Pickle  liquor.  Beer, Wine,  and  Sweet  Herbs,  and  Savory 
Spice  (460,)  are  very  convenient  auxiliaries  to  finish  Soups,&c. 
The  proportion  of  Wine  (formerly  Sack,  then  Claret,  now 
Madeira  or  Port)  should  not  exceed  a  large  Wine-glassful  to 
a  Quart  of  Soup  : έΑΦ this  is  as  much  as  can  be  admitted,  with- 
out the  vinous   flavour   becoming  remarkably  predominant; 
though  not  only  much   larger  quantities  of   Wine,  (of  which 
Claret  is  incomparably  the  best,  because  it  contains  less  spirit 
and  more  flavour,  and  English  palates  are  least  acquainted  with 
it)  ;  but  even  veritable  Eau  de  Vie  is  ordered  in  many  boOks, 
aod  used  by  many  (especially  Tavern   Cooks) έΑΦ so  much,  ace 
their  Soups  overloaded  with  relish,  that  if  you  will  eat  enough 
of   them  they  will  certainly  make  you  Drunk,  if  they  dq,^'t 
make  you  Sick.     All  this  frequently  arises  from  an  old  Cook 
Bieasurtng  the  excitability  of  the  Eaters'  palates  by  his  own,-^ 


100  BROTHS    AKD    SOVfTS* 

ivbicb  may  also  be  bluDted  by  iocesBaDt  Tastiog^  tbat  to  awa&eit 
it,  requires  Wine  instead  of  water,  and  Cayenne  and  Garlicky 
for  Black  Pepper  and  Onion^ 

CMd  Cooks  are,  as  fond  of  Spice,  as  Children  are  of  Si^^^ 
and  season  SOUP,  which  is  intended  to  constitute  a  priocjpal. 
part  of  a  Meal,  as  highly  as  SAUCE,  of  which  only  a  spoonful 
may  be  Relish  enough  for  a  ptate  of  insipid  Viands.  See  Oha. 
to  (355.)-*- However  we  fancy  these,  large  quantities  of  Wine, 
&c,  are  oftener  ordered  in  Cookery  Books  than  used  in  the 
Kitchen ; έΑΦ practical  Cooks  have  the  Health  of  their  eaiploy- 
ers  too  much  at  heart, έΑΦ and  love  "  Sauce  a  la  Langw?^  too 
well,  to  overwine  their  Soup,  &e. 

Truffles  and  Morels^  are  also  set  down  as  a  part  of  most 
rueoi|U3.  These,  in  their  Green  state,  have  a  very  rich,  Uigfa 
flavour,  and  are  delicious  additions  to  some  dinners,  or  spot  up 
as  a  stew  by  themselves,  when  they  are  fresh  and  fine  :  but  ia 
this  state  they  are  not  served  up  half  a  dozen  times  tn  a.yeat, 
at  the  first  tables  in  the  kingdom  :  when  dried,  they  become 
mere  **  chips  in  pottage^'*  and  serve  only  to  soak  uf┬╗  good^ 
Gravy, έΑΦ from  which,  they  take  more  Tftste  than  they  give* 

The  Art  of  competing  a  rich  Soup,  is  so.  to  proportion  the 
several  ingredients  one  to  another,  that  no  particular  taste  be 
stronger  than  the  rest ;  but  to  produce  suck  a  fine  harmonious 
relish,  that  the  whole  is  delightful; έΑΦ this  requires  that  judi* 
cious  combination  of  the  materials  which  constitutes  the  "^  chef' 
d^auvre*^  of  Culinary  Science.  έΑλ 

In  the  first  place,  take  care  that  the  Roots  and  Herbs  be 
perfectly  well  cleaned ;  proportion  the  Water  to  the  quantity 
of  Meai,-aiMl  other  ingredients,έΑΦ generally  a  pound  of  meat  to 
a  quart  of  water,  for  Soups ;  and  double  tliat  quantity  for  Gra> 
vies.  If  they  Stew  gently,  litde  more  water  need  be  put  in  at 
first,  than  is  expected  at  the  end  ; έΑΦ for  when  the  Pot  is  cover* 
ed  quite  close  and  the  fire  gentle,  very  little  is  wasted. 

Gentle  Stewing  is  incomparably  the  best, έΑΦ the  Meat  is 
more  tender  and  the  Soup  better  flavoured. 

It  is  of  the  first  importance,  that  the  Cover  of  a  Soup  Ket- 
He  should  fit  very  close,  or  the  broth  will  evaporate  before 
you  are  aware  of  it.  The  most  essential  parts  are  soon  evapo- 
rated by  Quick  Boiling,  without  any  benefit,  except  to  fatten 

*l  I  -.IN... _  .  ,  ..ll..  ..I  έΨι  I  έΨι  ..11.,  ,  έΨι  .1  * 

*  We  tried  to  make  Catrop  ┬τf  these  }rj  treatinir  them  like  MMahniMiis,  (459,}  b┬τt 
flUd  not  suGceedi 


BROTHft   AND  SOUPS.  101 

tb┬τ  fortanate  Coo)e  mho  inhftles  tbeio.  An  evident  proof  tiMt 
these  Exhalations*  possess  the  most  restorative  qualitie┬τ^  lit 
that  THE  Cook έΑΦ who  te  io  general  the  least  EaterέΑΦ -is,  as 
generally,  the  Fattest  person  in  the  Family,  from  cootiooally 
being  sorrounded  by  the  Qaintesseoce  of  all  the  food  she  dres- 
ses; irhereof,  she  sends  to  her  Master  only  the  fibres  and 
calcinations,  who  is  consequently  TAtn,  Gouty,  and  the  Vis- 
tim  of  Diseases  arising  from  insufficient  nourtsbment* 

It  is  not  only  the^6re8  of  the  meat  which  nourishes  ns-^bit 
the  Juices  they  cootain έΑΦ and  these  are  not  only  extracted  but 
exhaled,  if  it  be  boiled  fast  in  an  open  vessel.  A  succulent 
soup  can  never  be  made  but  in  s  well  closed  vessel,  which  prs- 
serves  the  nutritive  parts  by  preventing  their  dissipation.  This 
is  a^act  of  which  every  intelligent  person  will  soon  perceive 
the  importance. 

Place  i;our  Soup^pot  over  a  moderate  fire^  which  wiU  make 
the  vxUer  ^,  uxithout  causing  it  to  hoil'-^for  at  least  half  an 
-  Hnur  ;  if  the  water  boils  immediately,  it  will  not  penetrate  the 
meat,  and  cleanse  it  from  the  clotted  blood,  and  other  matters 
which  ought  to  go  off  in  scum  ;  the  meat  will  be  hardened  all 
over  by  violent  Heat,  will  shrink  up  as  if  it  was  scorched,  and 
^\v^  hardly  any  Gravy ;  on  the  contrary,  by  keeping  the  Wa- 
ter a  certain  time  heating  without  boiling,  the  Meat  swells,  be- 
comes tender,  its  fibres  are  dilated,  and  it  yields  a  quantity  of 
^um^  which  must  be  taken  off  as  soon  as  it  appears. 

It  is  not  till  after  a  good  Half  Hour's  hot  infusion,  that  we 
may  mend  the  Fire^  and  make  the^  Pot  boil ;  stiil  continue  to 
remote  tAe  Scum,  aod  when  no  more  appears,  put  in  the  Vege- 
tables, &c.  and  a  tittle  salt.  These  will  cause  more  Scum  to 
rise,  which  must  be  taken  off  immediately  ;  then  cover  the  pot 
very  closely,  and  place  it  a  proper  distance  from  the  fire, 
where  it  will  boil  very  gently  and  equally,  and  by  no  means  fast. 

By  quick  and  strong  Boilings  the  volatile  and  finest  parts  of 
the  ingredients  are  evaporated  and  fiy  off  with  the  steam,  and 

*  "  A  poor  man  b^nff  very  haofrry,  itaid  s┬τ  tone  ha  a  Cook*┬τ  shop^  who  vni  dhh- 
ing  op  meat,  that  hu┬╗loniaeb  was  satisfied  with  oniy  the  smeli  theitiof.  l'h┬τ  Cholcrie 
Cook  demanded  at  him  to  pay  for  his  bi┬τakft<st :  the  poor  man  denied  baTinr  had 
any,  and  the  conteorertr  was  referred  to  tba  deciding^  of  the  next  man  that  should 
patt  by,  who  chanced  to  M  the  most  notoriouft  Idiot  itk  the  whole  city  :  he,  on  the 
┬τelatioi┬╗  of  the  matter,  determioed  that  the  poor  man*s  money  should  be  put  betwixt 


skfflvae&by  oedibla*  wxtttcv  aa  ao  fUMe,  bat  an  imdoobted  truth.έΑΦ ra/T^r  Hhty 
State* 

9* 


103  BROTHS   AND   SOUPS. 


the  coarser  parts  are  rendered  soluble ; έΑΦ so  you  lose  the  good, 
aod  get  the  bad.  έΑλ 

Soups  will  generally  take  from  Tkree  to  Six  hours. 

Prepare  your  Broths  and  Soups  the  Evening  before  y&w 
toant  ikem.  This  will  gi^e  you  more  time  to  attend  to  the  rest 
of  your  Dinner  the  next  day  ;  and  when  the  Soup  is  cold,  the 
Fat  may  be  much  more  easily  and  completely  removed  from 
the  surface  of  it : έΑΦ when  you  decant  it,  take  care  not  to  disturb 
the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  which  are  so  fine,  that 
they  will  escape  through  a  Sieve,  or  even  through  a  tammis, 
which  is  the  best  strainer, έΑΦ the  Soups  appear  smoother  aod 
finerέΑΦ and  it  is  much  easier  cleaned  than  any  sieve.  If  you 
strain  il  while  it  is  Hot,  pass  it  through  a  clean  Tammis  or 
Napkin  .  previously  soaked  in  cold  water  ;  the  coldness  of  this 
will  coagulate  the  Fat  and  only  suffer  the  pure  broth  to  pass 
through. 

The  full  Havour  of  the  Ingredients  can  only  be  extracted  by 
very  long  and  slow  simmering  ;-έΑΦ during  which,  take  care  to 
prevent  Evaporation  by  covering  the  Pot  as  dose  as  possible  ; 
the  best  Stew  pot  is  a  Uig  ester. 

Clear  έΨι  Soups  must  be  perfectly  transparent, έΑΦ Thickened 
Soups,  about  the  consistence  of  rich  Cream, έΑΦ and  remember 
έΑλthat  Thickened  Soups  require  nearly  double  the  quantity  of 
Seasoning,  The  Piquance  of  Spice,  (&c.  is  as  much  blunted 
by  the  Flour  and  Butter,  as  the  Spirit  of  Rum  is  by  the  addi- 
tion of  Sugar  and  Acid  ;  so  they  are  less  salubrious,  without 
being  more  savoury έΑΦ from  the  additional  quantity  of  Spice, 
^c.  that  is  smu<j:gled  into  the  stomach. 

To  THICKEN  AND  GIVE  BoDY  TO    SoUPS    AND   SaUCES,   the 

following  materials  are  used έΑΦ they  must  be  gradually  mixed 
with  the  Soup,  till  thoroughly  incorporated  with  it  ;  and  it 
should  have,  at  least,  half  an  hour's  gentle  simmering  after  : 
if  it  is  all  lumpy,  pass  it  thro^h  a  Tammis  or  a  fine  Sieve. 
Bread  raspings,  Bread,  Isinglass,  Potato  mucilage,  (448)  fat 
skimroiogs  and  Flour  (248) έΑΦ or  Flour  and  Butter,  or  Flour ; 
Barley,  see  (^4),  Rice,  or  Oatmeal  and  water  rubbed  well  to- 
gether, see  (^57)  in  which  this  subject  is  fully  explained. 

To  give  that  Glutinous  quality  so  much  admired  in  Mock 
Turtle,  see  (198),  and  note  under  (247),  (252),  and  N.  B.  to 

(481.) 

To  their  very  rich  Gravies,  &c,  the  French  add  the  white 
meat  of  Partridges,  Pigeons,  or  Fowls,  pounded  to  a  pulp,  and 


BROTHS    ADD   ftO\JP8.  103 


rubbed  through  a  sieve : έΑΦ a  piece  of  Beef,  which  has  been 
boiled  to  make  Broib,  pounded  in  tbe  iike  manoer,  with  a  bit 
of  butler  and  flour,  see  Ofes.  to  (485*)  aod  (503,)  and  gradual- 
ly iocorporated  witfaplbe  Gravy  or  Soup,  will  be  found  a  satis- 
factory substitute  for  these  more  expensive  articles. 

Meat  from  whkh  Broth  has  been  made,  (185*)  and  (^52,) 
and  all  its  juice  has  been  extracted,  is  then  excellently  well  pre- 
pared for  POTTIKG,  see  (503,)  and  is  quite  as  good,  or  better 
than  that  which  has  been  baked  till  it  is  dry*  |  indeed  if  it  be 
pounded,  and  seasoned  in  the  usual  manner,  it  will  be  an  ele- 
gant and  savoury  Luncheon  or  Supper, έΑΦ ^and  costs  nothing  but 
the  trouble  of  preparing  it,  which  is  very  little,  and  a  Relish  is 
procured,  for  Samlvnche9,  Sfc.  (504,)έΑΦ of  what  heretofore  has 
been,  by  the  poorest  Housekeeper,  considered  the  perqmsUe  of 
the  Cat. 

Keep  some  spare  Broth,  lest  your  Soup  liquor  waste  in  boil- 
ing and  get  too  thick,  and  for  Gravy  for  your  Made  Dishes, 
various  Sauces,  &c.  for  many  of  which  it  is  a  much  belter  ba- 
sis* than  Melted  Butter. 

The  Soup  op  Mock  Turtle^  and  the  other  thickened 
Soups  (347,)  will  supply  you  wiih  a  thick  Gravy  Sauce  for 
PauUry,  Fish,  Ragouts,  Sfc  ;  and  by  a  little  management  of 
this  sort,  you  may  generally  contrive  to  have  plenty  of  Good 
Gravies  and  Good  Sauces  with  very  little  trouble  or  expense. 
See  also  Portable  Soup,  (252.) 

If  Soup  is  too  thin  or  Coo  weak,  take  off  the  cover  of  your 
soup-pot,  and  let  it  boil  till  some  of  the  watery  part  of  it  lias 
evaporated,  or  else,  add  some  of  the  Thickening  materials  we 
have  before  mentioned  ;  and  have  at  hand  some  plain  Bnowir- 
ing:  see  (322,)  and  the  06s.  thereon.  This  simple  prepara- 
tion is  much  better  than  any  of  the  compounds  bearing  that 
name,  as  it  colours  Sauce  or  Soup,  without  much  interfermg 
with  its  flavour,  and  is  a  much  better  way  of  Colouring  them 
than  burning  the  surface  of  the  Meat. 

When  Soups  and  Gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day,  in  Hot 
weather,  they  should  be  warmed  up  every  day,  and  put  into 
fresh  scalded  tureens,  or  pans,  and  placed  in  a  cool  cellar;έΑΦ in 
Temperate  weather,  every  other  day  may  be  enough. 

έΑλ  Ifth*  Gravy  iJC  not  completely  drained  fl┬╗m  it,  iheartMde  potted  iri^  verywm 
tain  lour.  1 


104  BROTHS    AND  SO0PS┬τ 

We  hope  we  have  no/v  pot  ibe  common  Cook  into  posees- 
aioD  of  the  whole  orcomi  of  Soopmakiog,  without  orach  trouble 
to  herself,  or  expense  to  her  employers ;  and  that  it  will  not  be 
said  in  future,  that  ao  Englisfamao  only  Iroows  bow  to  make 
Soup  in  his  Stomach,  by  swilling  down  a  large  quantity  of 
Ale,  or  Porter,  to  quench  the  thirst  occasioned  by  the  Meat  be 
eats :  John  Bull  may  now  make  his  Soup  '*  aecmukm  mriem^* 
and  save  his  principal  viscera  a  great  deal  of  trouble. 

*^*  In  the  foUovd/ing  Receipts  we  have  directed  the  SpiceB* 
and  Flavouring  to  be  added  at  the  usual  time  ;  hut  U  wmdd 
greatly  diminish  the  expense^  and  imprwe  the  Seups,  if  the 
Agents  employed  to  give  them  a  Zest,  were  Twt  put  in  above  fif- 
teen minutes  before  the  finish^ έΑΦ and  half  the  quantity  ofspice, 
Sfc,  would  do.  Ji  strong  Heat  soon  dissipates  the  spirit  of  the 
Wine,  and  evaporates  the  aroma  and  flavour  of  the  Spices  and' 
Herbs,  which  are  vokUiU  in  tJic  heat  of  Boiling  water. 

In  ordering  the  proportions  of  mbat,  bvtter,  wine,  &c. 
lie  proper  quantity  is  set  down,  and  less  vnll  not  do  ;  we  have 
carried  Economy  quite  as  far  as  possible  without  **  spoiling  the 
Broth  for  a  halfpenny^worih  of  Salt,^^ 

I  conclude  these  remarks,  with  observing,  that  some  persons ' 
imagine  that  Soup  tends  to  relax  the  Stomach έΑΦ so  far  from 
heing  prejudicial,  we  consider  the  moderate  use  of  such  liquid 
oourisbment,  to  be  highly  salutary.  Does  notour  food  and 
drink,  even  though  cold,  become  in  a  few  minutes  a  kind  of 
Warm  Soup  in  the  stomach  ;  and,  therefore.  Soup,  if  not  eaten 
too  hot,  or  in  too  great  a  quantity,  and  of  proper  quality,  is  at- 
tended  with  great  advanUges,  especially  to  those  who  drink 
but  little. 

Warm  Fluids  in  the  form  of  Soup,  nnite  with  obt  juices 
aiuch  sooner,  and  better,  than  those  that  are  cold  and  raw έΑΦ on 
this  account.  Restorative  Soup  is  the  best  Food  for  those 
who  are  enfeebled  by  Disease  or  Dissipation,  or  for  old  peo- 
ple, whose  Teeth  and  Digestive  organs  are  impaired. 

*έΑλ  HalfsubtiKzed  to  Ch^rl^^the  Itqaid  ftod 
Readiest  obeyi  the  aniinihiting  powers.'' 

After  catching  Cold,  in  Nervous  Headachy  Colica,  Indiges- 


έΑλ  Thete,  Econoraisti  reeommend  to  be  pounded;  thev  eertftialv  ffa  fmtfhn  έΑλ. 


BROTHS    AND   SOUPS.  105 

lions,  and  different  Vmda  of  Cramp  ana  Spasms  in  the  Stomach, 
warm  Broth  is  of  excellent  service. 

After  intemperate  feasting,  to  give  the  Stomach  a  holiday, 
for  a  day  or  two,  by  a  diet  on  Mutton  Broth,  (No.  564,")  or 
(No.  572,)  or  Vegetable  Soup,  (No.  318,)  &c.  is  the  best  way 
to  restore  its  Tone.  See  Peptic  PrecepU,  **  The  stretching 
any  power  to  its  ntmoal  extent,  weakens  it.  If  the  Stomach  be 
every  day  obliged  to  do  as  much  as  it  can,  it  will  every  day  be 
able  to  do  less.  A  wise  traveller  will  never  force  his  horse  to 
perform^as  mach  as  he  can,  in  one  day,  upon  a  long  journey.'' 

To  WARM  Soups,  *c.  (No.  485.) 

N.  B.     With  the  portable  Soup,  (No.  25%)  a  pint  of 
Bfoih  may  be  made  in  five  minutes  for  Three  Penc^. 


RUBIMENTS  OT  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 
GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


**  The  Spirit  of  each  dish,  and  Zest  of  all. 
It  what  ingenious  Cooka  t^e  Reiish  call ; 
For  though  the  market  sends  in  leads  of  foody 
They  all  are  twteleM,  till  that  makes  them  good.** 

King's  Art  of  Cotktry. 

"  Ex  parvisf  componere  magna,^* 

It  is  of  as  much  importance  that  the  Cook  should  know  how 
to  make  a  boat  of  good  Gravy  for  her  Poultry,  8tc,  as,  that  it 
should  be  sent  up  of  proper  complexion,  and  nicely  frothed. 

In  this  Chapter  we  shall  endeavour  to  introduce  to  her  all 
the  Materials*  which  give  flavour  in  Sauce^  which  is  the  ┬μ9- 
aence  of  Soup^  and  intended  to  contain  more  relish  in  a  Tea- 
spoonful^  than  the  former  does  in  a  Tahlespoonfid,  And  we 
hope  to  deserve  as  much  praise  from  the  Economist ^  as  we  do 
from  the  Bon  Vivant ;  as  we  have  taken  great  pains  to  intro- 
duce to  him  the  methods  of  making  Substitutes  for  those  ingre- 
dients, which  are  always  expensive,  and  often  not  to  be  had  at 
a}].  Of  these,  those  who  have  large  families,  and  limited  in- 
comes, will  no  doubt  be  glad  to  avail  themselves. 

The  reader  may  rest  assured, έΑΦ that  whether  he  consults  this 
Book  to  diminish  the  expense,  or  increase  the  pleasures  of  Hos- 
pitality,έΑΦ he  will  find  all  the  information  that  was  to  be  ob- 
tained up  to  1822,  communicated  in  the  most  unreserved  and 
intelligible  manner. 

A  great  deal  of  the  Elegance  of  Cookery έΑΦ depends  upon 
the  Accompaniments  to  each  dish  being  appropriate  and  well 
adapted  to  it. 

We  can  assure  our  readers,  no  attention  has  been  wanting  on 
our  part  to  render  this  department  of  the  work  worthy  their  pe- 

*  See  in  paget  60έΑΦ97έΑΦ98,  a  Catalogue  of  the  Ipgcedimti  bow  osed  ia  Sovm, 
Saoecs,  ┬τtc┬τ 


GRAVIES    AND   SAUCES.  107 

rusal : έΑΦ each  Receipt,  is  the  faithful  navratiYe  of  actnal  and  re- 
peated expenroents, έΑΦ ^and  has  received  the  moat  deliberate  con- 
sideration before  it  was  here  presented  to  tbem. έΑΦ It  is  given  in 
the  most  circomstaDtial  manner,  and  not  in  the  technical,  and 
mysterious  language  former  writers  on  these  subjects  seam  to 
have  preferred : έΑΦ by  which  their  directions  are  useless  and  un- 
intelligible to  all  who  have  not  regularly  served  an  apprentice- 
ship at  the  Stove. 

Thus,  instead  of  minutely  enumerating  the  Quantities  and 
explaining  the  process  of  each  composition,  they  order  a  ladleful 
of  Stocky έΑΦ a,  pint  of  Consomme^ έΑΦ and  a  spoonful  of  CullU;  as 
if  a  Private  Family  Cook  had  always  at  hand  a  soup-kettle  full 
of  Stockj  a  store  of  ConsommSj  and  the  larder  of  Albion  House 
έΑΦ and  as  if  Spoons  and  Pennyioorths  were  the  same  in  all  ages. 

It  will  be  to  very  little  purpose  I  have  taken  so  much  pains 
to  teach  how  to  manage  Roasts  and  Boils, έΑΦ -if  a  Cook  cannot 
or  will  not  make  the  several  Sauces  that  are  usually  sent  up 
with  tbem. 

The  most  homely  fare  may  be  made  relishing,  and  the  most 
excellent  and  independent,  improved  by  a  well  made  Sauce,* 
έΑΦ as  the  most  perfect  Picture  may  by  being  well  varnished. 

We  have,  tbereforerendeavoured  to  give  the  plainest  direc* 
tions,  how  to  produce  with  the  least  trouble  and  expensef  pos- 
sible all  the  various  compositions  the  ┬μoglish  kitchen  afift>rds,and 

*  **It  is  the  daty  of  a  good  Sauce,**  sayi  the  editor  of  the  Alnumach  de*  Gout' 
tnandt^  *'  to  insinuate  itself  all  round  ano  about  the  maxillary  8^>ndia  and  imper- 
ceptiMy  awaken  into  activity  each  ramification  of  the  Orgsni  of  Taste  :  if  not  sufi- 
eiently  savoury,  it  cannot  produce  this  effect,  and  if  too  ptqutmte^  it  will  nanilyze, 
insteaid  of  exciting,  those  deiieious  titillations  of  tongue,  and  Tibrations  of  Palate, 
tbat  only  the  most  accomplished  Philosophers  of  the  Mouth  can  produce  on  the  high- 
ly educated  palates  of  thnee  happy  Orandt  Goumutndt,** 

t  To  save  Time  and  Trouble  is  the  most  valuable  frugality  ;  and  If  the  mistress  of 
a  fiimity  will  condescend  to  devote  a  little  time  to  the  profitable  and  pleasant  em- 
ployment of  prepal-ing  some  of  the  Store  Sauces^  especially  Not.  323, 408, 404,  413, 
429,433,439,454;  these,  both  Epicures  and  Economists^  will  avail  themselves  of  the 
advantage  now  given  them,  of  preparing  at  home. 

By  the  help  of  these,  many  Didies  may  be  dressed  in  half  the  asnal  Time,έΑΦ and 
with  half  die  Trouble  and  Expense,έΑΦ and  fiaToured  and  finished  with  much  more 
eertainty  than  by  the  common  methods. 

A  small  portion  of  the  Tim┬τ  whidi  young  Ladies  sacrifice  to  torturing  the  strings 
of  their  PianthFortef  employed  in  obtaining  Domestic  AccomplisbmentsέΑΦ mirhtuot 
make  them  worse  wives,  or  less  agreeable  Companions  to  their  Husbands.  This  was 
the  opinion  200  years  ago. 

**  To  speak  then  of  the  Knowledge  which  betongi  unto  our  British  HousewifeέΑΦ I 
hofai  the  most  principal,  to  be  a  perfect  skill  in  Cookery  ;  Shee  that  is  utterly  igno- 
rant therein,  may  not  by  the  Lawes  of  strict  Justice,  challenge  Uie  fueedom  of  Mar- 
riageέΑΦbecame  indeede  Shee  can  perform  but  half  her  vow.έΑΦ Sh<'e  may  love  and 
obey,  but  shee  cannot  cherish  and  Kcepe  her  Husband.*'έΑΦ G.  Marklutm'a  English 
Housewife^ 

We  hope onr  fair  Readers  will  forgive  us,  for  telling  them,  that  Rconony  in  a 
Wife,  is  the  must  certain  Charm  to  ensure  the  Affec^n  and  Industry  of  a  Husband. 


108  GRAVIES    AND   SAUCES. 

hope  to  present  not  only  a  wbolesotne,  but  palatable  variety  to 
suit  all  tastes  and  all  pockets ;  so  that  a  cook  tnay  give  satis- 
faction in  all  families ;  the  more  combinations  of  this  sort  sfae 
is  acquainted  with,  the  better  she  will  comprehend  tfaemana^ 
inent  of  every  one  of  them. 

We  have  rejected  some  OuUandhk  Farraguea^^hom  a  con-^ 
viction  they  were  by  no  means  adapted  to  an  -Eoglfsh  palate ; 
if  they  have  been  received  into  some  English  books,  for  the 
sake  of  swelling  the  volumes,  we  believe  they  never  will  be  re- 
ceived by  an  English  stomach  unless  for  the  rsason  tbey  were 
admitted  into  the  Cookery  book ;  i.  e.  because  ke  has  nothing 
else  to  put  into  it. 

However,  "  les  pompeuses  Bagatdle$  de  Ut  Cuisine  Ma9^ 
quie**  may  tickle  the  fancy  of  demi-connoisseurf^  who  leaTing 
the  substance,  to  pursue  the  shadow,  pnKer  wonderful  and 
whimsical  metainorphoses,  and  things  extravagantly  expensive 
to  those  which  are  intrinsically  excellent ;  in  whose  mouth, 
Mutton  can  hardly  hope  for  a  welcome,  unless  accompanied 
by  Venison  Sauce έΑΦ or  a  Rabbit  any  chance  for  a  race  down 
the  Red  Lane,  without  assuming  the  form  of  a  Frog  or  a 
Spider ; έΑΦ or  Pork,  without  being  either  *'  Qoosijixd^  or 
έΑλ*  Lamhifiedy'*  see  (No.  51,)  and  Oaiics  and  Poultry  in  the 
shape  of  Crawfish  or  Hedgehogs, 

These  travesties  rather  show  the  patilence  than  the  science  of 
the  Cook,  and  the  bad  taste  of  those  who  prefer  such  Baby- 
tricks^  to  eld  English  nourishing  and  substantial  plain  Cookery. 

We  could  hare  made  this  the  biggest  Bookf  with  half  the 
trouble  it  has  taken  ┬τie  to  make  it  the  best; έΑΦ Concentration 
and  Perspicuity  have  been  my  aim. 

As  ihuch  paiiis  have  been  taken  in  descnbing,  in  the  nnost 
intellible  manner,  how  to  make  in  the  easiest,  most  agreeable, 
and  economical  way,  those  Common  Satices  that  daily  contri- 
bute to  the  comfort  ttfthe  ^Middle  rcmks  of  Society  ;  as,  in  di- 
recting, the  preparation  of  those  extravagant  and  elaborate  dou- 
ble relishes,  the  most  ingenious  and  accomplished  '*  Officers 
of  the  MoutK^  have  invented  for  the  amusement  of  profound 
Palaticians,  and  thorough  bred  Grands  Gourmands  of  the  first 

*  *^  More  for  Sherv  and  Sport  tiian  for  Belly-Tltnber,  and  about  which  the  G^od 
Ilouiewife  lU'Ter  troubles  her  bead.**έΑΦ S┬τe  Joan  Groin welPs  Kitchen, 

1 1  in  tend' here  to  offer  to  all  such  as  please  to  peruse  it,  *.^a  plain  fio┬τ/t┬τ  which  it 
all  am)  every  part  of  it  Be┬τk^  aitd  notliini?  but  solid  Book  from  bej^niujr  to  eud.**έΑΦ 
Vide  pKvfaee  to  Dr.  Fuller*s  έΑλ*  Intr┬τ<fucti┬╗  ad  PruOentiam,^ 


OBAVIfiS   A^D  BADGES.  100 

I 

inagDitude :  these  vre  have  so  reduced  the  troobie  and  ezpeoso 
of  makiDg.  as  to  bring  ihem  within  the  reach  of  moderate  for* 
tuaes ;    siiU  preserviog  all  tbbt  is  valuable  of  their  taste  and 
quaUues :  so  ordering  tbem┬╗that  they  may  delight  the  Palate, 
Tvilhout  disordering  the  Stomach ;  by  leaving  ont  -those  inflam- 
matory ingredients  which  are  only  fit  for  an  '*  iron  throat,  and 
adamantine  bowels,"  and  those  costly  materials,  which  no  ra* 
tionkl  being  would  destroy,  for  the  wanton  purpose  of  merely 
giving  a  fine  name  to  the  compositions  they  enter  into,  to  whose 
excellence  they  contribute  notbingelse^έΑΦ *for  instance,  coosam- 
ing  Tvxi  Partridges  to  make  sauce  for   One  ;  half  a  pint  of 
Game  Gravy,  (No.  3^9,)  will  be  infinitely  more  acceptable  to 
the  unsophisticated  appetite  of  Englishmen,  for  whose  proper 
and  rational  recreation  we  sat  down  to  compose  these  Receipts  : 
whose  approbation  we  have  done  our  utmost  to  deserve,  by  de- 
voting mach  time  to  the  business  of  the  Kitchen  :  and  by  re- 
peating the  various  processes  we  thought  admitted  of  the  smal- 
lest improvement. 

We  sbaJl  be  fully  gratified  if  our  Book  is  not  bought  up  with 
quite  so  much  avidity  by  those  high  bred  Epicures,  who  are 
unhappily  so  much  more  nice  than  wise, έΑΦ that  they  cannot  eat 
any  thing  dressed  by  an  English  Cook, έΑΦ and  vote  it  barba- 
rously  unrefined,  and  intolerably  ungenteel,  to  endure  the  sight 
of  the  best  bill  of  fare  that  can  be  contrived,  if  written  in  the 
Vulgar  tongue  of  Old  England.* 

Let  your  Sauces  each  display  a  decided  character ;  send  up 
your  PLAIN  Saucbs  {Oyiter^  Lobster ^S^c)  as  pure  as  possible; 
they  zhojM  ord^  taste  of  the  materials  from  which  they  take 
their  name. 

The  imagination  of  most  Cooks,  is  so  incessantly  on  the 
bunt  for  a  Relish,  that  they  seem  to  think,  they  cannot  make 
sauce  sufficiently  savoury,  without  putting  into  it,  every  thing 


*  Though  some  of  these  people  teem  at  last  to  hare  fouiHl  out,>-Uuit  an  Eng- 
lishroan*s  head  may  be  as  full  of  grary  as  a  FreDehman*i,-~and  willing  to  give  the 
-prefereiice  to  native  taleut,  retain  an  English  roan  or  woman  aa  prime  minister  of 
th^r  kitchen  :  still  they  seem  ashamed  to  confess  it,  and  commonly  insist  at  a 
'^itne  qua'non^  that  their  English  domestics  should  understand  the  **parte┬╗' 
vout  ^*  and  notwithstanding  they  are  perfectly  initiated  in  all  the  minutise  of  the 
philosophy  of  the  inouth,consider  them  ineligible,  if  they  cannot  leribble  a  bill 
9/ fare  in  pretty  good  bad  Freno/i*  ^  έΨι  "  ~ 

10 


110  GRAVICS  AND  SAUCES. 

┬╗ 

that  ┬τv┬τr  was  Mten ;  and  sapposing  every  additioD  most  be  an 
inproveinent)  they  frequently  overpower  the  natural  Oavour  of 
their  plain  aAVcse,  by  overloading  them  with  salt  and  spioee, 
&o. : έΑΦ ^but,  remenbery  these  will  be  deteriorated  by  any  addi- 
tion┬╗  aave  only  just  salt  enough  to  awaken  the  Palate.  The 
Lorer  of  ^  Aquanse'^  and  Conapound  Flavours  may  have  re- 
course to  **  thfi  Magazine  of  Tastc^^  (No.  4<$3.) 

On  the  eontrary,  of  Gompourd  Savce8<έΑΦ the  ingredieots 
should  be  so  nicely  proportioned,  that  no  one  be  predominant ; 
έΑΦ *so  that  from  the  equal.union  of  the  combined  flavours,  such 
a  fine  mellow  mixture  is  prodiioed,  whose  very  novelty  cannot 
fail  of  being  aoeeptable  to  the  persevering:  Gcurmand^  if  it  has 
not  pretensions  to  a  permanent  place  at  his  ta^le. 
:  An  ingenious  Coe/c  will  form  as  endless  a  variety  of  these 
compositions  as  a  Musix^n  with  his  seven*  notes, έΑΦ or  a 
Pointer  with  his  colours :  no  part  of  her  business  offers  so  fair 
and  frequent  an  opportunity  to  display  her  abilities.  Spices, 
Herbs,  &c.  are  often  very  absurdly  and  injudiciously  iumbled 
tegether.  \ 

Why  have  Clove  and  Allspice,  or  Mace  and  Natmeg^n  the 
same  8auce,--^r  Majorum,  Thyme,  and  Savory  ;  or  Onions, 
Leeks,  Eshallots,  and  Oarlick  ? έΑΦ one  will  very  well  supply  the 
place  of  the  other,  and  the  frugal  Cook  may  save  something 
considerable  by  attending  to  (his,  to  the  advantage  of  her  em- 
ployer, and  her  own  time  and  trouble.  You  might  as  well,  to 
make  Soup,  order  one  Quart  of  water  from  the  Thumts^  anoth- 
er from  the  JWtt?  River,  a  third  from  Hampstead,  and  a  fourth 
from  CheUea,  with  a  certain  portion  of  Spring  and  Rain  Water, 

In  many  of  our  Receipts,  we  have  fallen  in  with  the  fashion 
of  ordering  a  mixture  of  Spices,  &c.  which  the  above  hint 
will  enable  the  culinary  student  to  correct. 

**  Pharmacy  is  now  much  more  simple,*^CooKERT  may  be 
made  so  too.  A  Prescription  which  is  now  compounded  with 
five  ingredients,  had  formerly  fifty  in  it,  and  people  begin  to 
understand  that  the  Materia  Medica  is  little  more  than  a  col- 
lection of  Evacuants,  and  Stimuli.*' έΑΦ BoswelFs  Life  of  Johiir 
son, 

έΑλ  The  Principal  Agent*  sow  employed  to  flsTonr  Soupi  tad  Sauces,  are  Miiili* 
fooint  (No.  430,)  Onions  (No.  4200  AnchoTy  (No.  433 J  Lemon  Jaice  and  Feel,  or 
Vinegar^  Wine,  (especiaUy  food  Claret^  Sweet  .Herb%aiid  SaTonry  Spices.έΑΦ (Nos. 
SO,  21,  2S,  and  4S7, 59, 00.) 


O&AVtES    AND   SAUCES.  Ill 

The  RagouU  of  the  last  Centurif  tmd  infinitely  more  incredt- 
ents  than  we  use  now έΑΦ the  praise  given  to  WUL  Rabisha  for 
his  Cookery,  12mo.  1673,  is 

**  To  frjr  and  fKcasee,hn  vAj't  most  neat. 
For  he  compounds  a  thomand  loru  of  meat.** 

To  become  a  perfect  Mistress  of  the  art  of  cleverly  extract- 
ing and  combining  flavours*  besides  the  gift  of  a  good  Taste, 
requires  all  the  experience  and  skill  of  the  most  accomplished 
Professor^  and  especially,  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  tba 
Palate  she  is  working  for; 

Send  your  Sauces  to  Table  as  hoi  as  possible. 

Nothing  need  be  more  unsightly  than  the  Surface  oC  a  Sauc* 
in  a  frozen  state,  or  garnished  with  grease  on  the  top  ;  the 
Vtest  way  to  get  rid  of  thk,  is  to  pats  it  through  a  Tammis  or 
T^apkin  previously  soaked  in  cold  water,  the  cotdness  of  the 
napkin  will  coagulate  the  Fat,  and  only  suffer  the  pare  Ghravy 
to  pass  tbrocgb ; έΑΦ if  any  particiUs  of  Fai  remain^  take  ikem 
<iff  by  applying  JUUfing  papery  as  blotting  paper  is  applied  to 
Ink. 

Let  your  Sauces  boil  up  after  you  put  in  Wine,  Anchovy, 
or  Thickening,  that  their  flavours  may  be  well  blended  with  tha 
other  ingredients^  ;  and  keep  in  mind  that  the  ^^chef-^mwore^* 
of  Cookery,  is  to  entertain  the  Mouth  without  offending  the 
Stomach. 

N.  B.  Although  I  have  endeavoured  to  give  the  particular 
quantity  of  each  ingredient  used  in  the  following  Sauces,  as 
they  are  generally  made,  still  the^Cook's  judgment  n^ust  direct 
her  to  lessen  or  increase  either  of  the  ingredients,  according  to 
the  taste  of  those  she  works  for,  and  will  always  be  on  the  alert 
to  ascertain  what  are  the  favourite  Accompaniments  desired 
with  each  dish.     See  Jdvice  to  Cooks,  page  59. 

When  yon  open  a  bottle  of  Catsup,  (No.  439,)  Essence  of 
Anchovy,  (No.  433,)  &c.  throw  away  the  old  cork,  and  stop 


*  If  yonr  piilaie  beeomea  dall  by  repeatedly  tailing,  ibe  best  way  to  refttth  it ┬╗ 
to  waib  yonc  nouth  well  with  milk; 

t  Before  yoa  put  Eggs  or  Cream  into  a  Sauce,  have  all  yoar  other  ingredients 
well  boiled,  and  the  tanee  or  Map  of  proper  thicknett,έΑΦ became  neither  eggi  nor 
eream  wiTl  eontribtite  to  thiefcen  it.  After  you  hare  put  them  in,  do  not  set  the 
ttewpwi  (Ml  the  itoTe  again,'^bat  hold  it  orer  the  fire,  and  shake  it  xoond  one  way 
^  the  sauce  is  ready. 


112  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

it  closely  with  a  new  cork  that  will  fit  it  very  tight.     Use  only 
the  best  superfine  Velvet  taper  corks. 

EcoDomy  ia  Corks  is  rery  unwise  ;  in  order  to  save  a  mere 
trifle,  in  th&  price  of  the  cork,  you  run  the  risk  of  losing  the 
valuable  article  it  is  intended  to  preserve.  It  is  a  Vulgar  Er- 
ror that  a  bottle  roust  be  well  stopped,  when  the  cork  is  forced^ 
down  even  with  the  mouth  of  it, έΑΦ this  is  a  sure  sign  that  the 
Cork  is  too  small,  and  it  should  be  re-drawn  and  a  larger  one 
put  in. 

TO    MAKE    BOTTLE   CEMENT. 

Haifa  pound  black  rosin,  same  quantity  of  red  sealing  wax, 
quarter  ounce  bees  wax,  melted  in  an  earthen  or  iron,  pot ; 
when  it  froths  up,  before  all  is  melted  and  likely  to  boil  over, 
stir  it  with  a  Callow  candle,  which  will  settle  the  froth  till  all  is 
melted  and  fit  for  ase. 

N.  B.  This  cement  is  of  very  great  use  in  preserving  things 
that  you  wish  to  keep  a  longtime,  which  without  its  help  would 
soon  spoil,  from  the  clumsy  and  ineffectual  manner  the  Bottles 
are  corked. 


-ft-      ^┬╗: 


114  MADC   DISHES. 

first  time  it  is  dressed, έΑΦ a  second  dressing  will  divest  it  of  all 
its  nutritive  juices,έΑΦ and  if  it  can  be  smuggled  into  the  stom- 
ach by  bribing  the  Palate  with  piquarUe  Sauce, έΑΦ it  is  at  the 
hazard  of  an  Indigestion,  &c, 

I  promise  those  who  do  me  the  honour  to  put  my  Receipts 
into  practice,  that  they  will  find  that  the  most  nutritious  and 
elegant  disbe^,  are  neither  the  most  difficult  to  dress, έΑΦ the 
most  expensive, έΑΦ nor  the  most  indigestible  ;*~in  those  compo- 
sitions, Experience  will  go  far  to  diminish  Expense  ;  if  some 
of  our  Receipts  do  differ  a  little  from  those  in  former  Cookery 
Books,  let  it  be  remembered  we  baire  advanced  nothing  in  this 
work  that  has  not  been  tried,  and  experiifnce  has  proved  cor- 
rect. 

N.B.  See  (No.  483,)  an  Ingenious  and  Economical  System 
of  French  Cookery,  written  at  the  request  of  the  Editor  by 
a  very  accomplished  English  Lady,  which  will  teach  yoii 
how  to  supply  your  Table  with  elegant  little  Made  Dishes,  Sec* 
at  as  little  expense  as  Plain  Cookery. 


THE 

COOK^  ORACLE. 


JV.  B┬╗  Read  the  Mabxetiho  Tables  at  the  end  of  ike  Volume. 


BOlLINa 

READ   OUR  FIRST   CHAPTER   OF   THB   RUDIMENTS   OP 

COOKERY. 


Leg  of  Muttom  (No.  1.) 

Cot  off  the  Shaak  fiione,  and  trim  the  Knuckle,  put  it  ioto 
lukewarm  water  for  ten  minutes,  wash  it  clean,  coTer  it  with 
eold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very  genUy^  and  skim  it  carefully. 
A  Leg  of  nine  pounds  will  take  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours, 
if  you  like  it  thoroughly  dooe,  especially  in  very  cold  weather. 

For  the  Accompaniments  see  the  following  Receipt. 

N.  B.  The  Tit  BiU  with  an  Epicure,  are  the  Krmckley  the 
kernel  called  the  Pope^s  Eye^  and  the  GenUeman'a  or  Cramp 
Bone^  or,  as  it  is  called  in  Kent,  the  Caw  Caw, έΑΦ four  of  thes* 
and  a  Bounder,  furnish  the  little  Masters  and  Mistresses  of  Keot, 
with  the  most  favourite  set  of  play  things. 

A  Leg  of  Mutton,  stewed  very  slowly^  as  we  have  directed 
the  Beef  to  be,  (No.  493,)  will  be  as  agreeable  to  an  English 
palate  as  the  famous,  **  Gigot*  de  Kpt  neures*'  of  the  French 
Kitchen. 

When  Mutton  is  Yery  large,  you  may  divide  it,  and 
rooit  the  FiUety  i.  e.  the  large  end, έΑΦ and  boil  the  Knuckle  end, 
έΑΦ and  you  may  also  cut  some  fine  Cutlets  ofT  the  thick  end  of 
the  Leg, έΑΦ and  so  have  Tico  or  Three  good  Hot  Dinners, 

The  Liquor  the  Mutton  is  boiled  in  you  may  convert  into' 
Good  Souptn  Five  Minutea,  see N.  B.  [No.  ^18,]  and  Scotch 
Barley  Broth,  [No.  ^04.]  Thus  managed,  a  Leg  of  Mutton  is  ft 
most  Economical  Joint. 

έΨι   έΨι  II   1.       I  I    I- 11. έΨι!  έΨι    έΨι    έΨι  I         έΨι     έΨι      IM  I  έΨι* 

*  Tike  <?ilf┬τe  i┬╗  tiM  kg  Willi  FWt  ┬τr  tka  kiito 


lis  BOILING* 

Neck  ofMuUon.  (No,  2.) 

Put  four  or  five  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  a  Neck,  (tbat  has 
been  kept  for  a  few  days)  into  as  much  cold  sofi  water  as  will 
corer  it,  and  about  two  inches  over,  let  it  simmer  very  sloidy 
for  two  hours ; έΑΦ it  will  look  most  delicate  if  you  do  not  take 
off  the  Skin  till  it  has  been  boiled. 

For  Sauce,  that  elegant  and  innocent  relish,  Parsley  and 
Butter  (No.  361,)  or  Eshallot  (No.  394  or  5,)  or  Caper  sauce 
(No.  374,)  Mock  Caper  sauce  (No.  375,)  and  Onion  Sauce 
(No.  298,)  Turnips  (No.  130,)  or  Spinage  (No.  131,)  are 
the  usual  accompaniments  to  Boiled  Mutton, 

Lamb.  (No.  3.) 

A  Leg  of  five  pounds  should  simmer  very  gently  for  aboat 
Two  Hours,  from  the  time  it  is  put  on,  in  cold  water. έΑΦ After 
the  general  rules  for  Boiling,^  in  the  first  chapter  of  the  Rudi- 
ments OP  Cookery,  we  have  nothing  to  add,  only  to  send  up 
with  it  Spinage  (No.  123,)  Brocolt  (No.  136,)  Caulifiower 
(No.  125)  &c.  and  for  Sauce  (No.  261.) 

Veal.  (No.  4.) 

This  is  expected  to  come  to  table  looking  very  delicately 
clean, έΑΦ it  is  so  easily  discoloured,  you  must  be  careful  to  have 
clean  water, έΑΦ a  clean  vessel, έΑΦ ^and  constantly  catch  the  scum 
as  soon  and  as  long  as  it  rises,  and  attend  to  the  directions  be* 
fore  given  in  the  first  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cook* 
BRT.  Send  up  Bacon  (No.  13,)  Fried  Sausages  (No.  87,)  or 
pickled  Pork,  Greens  (No.  118,  and  following  Nos.)  and  Pars* 
ley,  and  Butter  (No.  261,)  Onion  Sauce  (No.  298.) 

N.  B.  For  Receipts  to  Cook  Veal,  see  from  (No.  512) 
to  (No.  621.) 

BeefBouilli,  .  (No.  5.) 

In  plain  English,  is  understood  to  mean  Boiled  Beef;  but 
its  culinary  acceptation,  in  the  French  Kitchen,  is  fresh  beef 
dressed  without  boiling,  and  only  very  gently  simmered  by  a 
slow  fire. 

English  Cooks  have  seldom  any  notion,  that  good  Soop 
tan  be  made  without  destroying  a  great  deal  of  Meat  :* έΑΦ 

*  ┬τ  Ce  n'eit  pas  la  quantite  de  niande  qui  fait  seule  !e  bon  bouillon, 
mats  la  manidre  dont  le  pot-an-feu  est  conduit.  Qu*est-ce  que  le 
bottUlon  ?  Une  decoction  de  έΨ╝iaade  contenaot  de  Textractif  animal 


BOILINO.  117 

however,  by  a  judicious  regulation  of  the  Tire,  and  a  vigilant 
attendance  on  the  Soup  kettle,  this  may  be  accoroplished έΑΦ and 
you  shall  have  a  tureen  of  such  Soup  as  will  satisfy  the  most 
fastidious  Palate, έΑΦ and  the  Meat  make  its  appearance  at  table, 
at  the  same  time,  in  possession  of  a  full  portion  of  nutritious 
succulence. 

This  requires  nothing  more,  than  to  Stew  the  meat  ver^ 
slowly,  (instead  of  keeping  the  pot  boiling  a  g(dlop,  as  common 
Cooks  too  commonly  do,)  and  to  take  it  up  as  soon  as  it  is  done 
enough.      (See  No.  238,  No.  493,  and  204.) 

Meat  cooked  in  this  manner,  affords  much  more  nourish* 
ment  than  it  does  dressed  in  the  common  way, έΑΦ is  easy  of  di- 
gestion in  proportion  as  it  is  tender, έΑΦ and  an  invigorating  sub- 
stantial diet,  especially  valuable  to  the  Foor,  whose  laborious 
emp\oy men ts  require  support. 

if  they  could  get  good  Eating,  put  within  their  reach,  they 
would  often  go  to  the  Butcher's  shop,  when  they  now  run  to 
the  Public  house. 

Among  the  variety  of  Schemes  that  heme  been  suggested  for 

BETTERING   THS   CONDITION,   OF    OTTR,  ENGLISH  PoOR,   a  roor┬╗ 

useful  or  extensive  Charity  cannot  be  devised,  than  that  of  in- 
structing  them  in  Economicid  and  Conifortable  Cookery, 

"  The  Poor  in  Scptland,  and  on  the  Continent,  man- 
age much  better.  In  the  first,  Oatmeal  Porridge-  (No.  205 
and  572,)  and  Milk  coostitute  the  Breakfast  and  Supper  of 
those  patterns  of  Industry,  Frugality^  and  Temperance,  the 
Scottish  Peasantry* 

'^  When  they  can  afford  Meat,  they  form  with  it  a  large 
quantity  of  Barley  Broth  (No.  204,)  with  a  variety  of  Vegeta- 

qui  la  colore,  (cet  extractlf,  nomm^  par  le  c^ldbre  Thenard,  osmazome, 
contieot  aussi  toute  la  partie  savoureuse  de  la.  iriande,)  da  sei,  mais 
sartoat  de  lafgelatine.  Pour  que  la  vlande  cdde  h  I'eau  ces  principes 
ii  faut  que  eelle-^  la  p^oetre  avec  une  temperature  gradu^e,  dilate  les 
fibres  musculaires,  et  dissolve,  la  gelatine  qui  y  est  interposee ;  mais 
dans  ces  mfimes  muscles  11  y  a  aussi  de  Valbwnint  (mati^re  analogue 
au  blanc  d'oeuf,  et  qui  forme  Tecume  du  pot.)  Cette  albumine  se 
coagule,  et  ┬τe  durcit  k  la  temperature  de  quatre-vingt  degree.  Si 
done  VOU8  possez  rapidement  votre  pot-au-feu  aii  point  de  la  faire 
bouiJItr  avant  que  la  viande  soit  dilutee  et  penetree  par  Teao,  qu'ar- 
rive  t-il  f  L*albumine  se  coagule  dans  la  viande  nx^me,  et  empdche  la 
gelatine  d'eh  sortir  ; έΑΦ tous  avez  un  BottiUon  faible,  et  un  Bouilli  dur  ; 
mais,  au  contraire,  si  vous  ares  menage  le  feu  de  mani^re  que  la 
viande  ait  ea  le  temps  d'etre  penetree,  Valbumine  8.^eldve  en  ecumme, 
la  gelatine  se  dissout,  le  Bouillon  est  savoureux,  nourissant,  et  le 
Bouilli  tendce.^VoiU  tout  la  theorie  pot-au-feu."έΑΦ Cowr*  Giucn- 
nomiqut^ 


116  fiOlLlNfl. 

bles,  by  boiiiog  the  whole  ft  loog^  time,  enough    to  serve  the 
Family  for  several  days. 

**  Wheo  they  cannot  afford  Meat,  they  make  Broth  of  Bar- 
ley and  other  Vegetables,  with  a  lump  of  Butter,  [No.  2^9,] 
all  of  which  they  boil  for  many  hours,  and  this  with  Oat  Cakes 
forms  their  dinner.*'   Hon.  John  Cochran  e's  Seaman^s  Guide, 
The  cheapest  method  of  making  a  Nourishing   Soup,  is 
least  known  to  those  who  have  most  need  of  it ;  it  vrill  enable 
those  who  have  small  Incomes  and  large  Families,  to  make  tbe 
most  of  whatever  they  possess,  without  pinching  their  Chil- 
dren of  that  wholesome  nourishment  which  is  necessary,  for  the 
purpose  of  rearing  them  up  to  maturity  in  Health  and  Sttengtb. 
-The  Ldibouaing  Classes  seldom  purchase  whet  are  called  tlie 
coarser  pieces  of  jMeat  because  they  do  not  know  bow  to  drean 
them,  but  lay  out  their  money  in  pieces  for  Roasting,  &c.'} 
of  which  the  Bones,&c  enhance  the  price  of  the  actual  Meat  to 
nearly  a  shilling  per  pound, έΑΦ and  the  Diminution  of  weight 
hy   Roasting  amounts  to  32  per  cent έΑΦ This,  for  the  sake  of 
asving  time,  troable  and  fire,  is  generally  sent  to  an  oven  to  be 
Makedf έΑΦ the  nourishing  parts  are  evaporated  and  dried  up, έΑΦ 
its  weight  is  diminished  nearly  one  third^'^Md  all  that  a  poor 
man  oan  afford  to  porefaase  with  his  week's  earning,  perhaps 
does  not  half  satisfy  the  appetite  of  himself  and  family  for  a 
couple  of  Days. 

If  a  hard  working  Man  cannot  get  a  comfortable  meal  at 
home,  he  soon  finds  the  Way  to  the  Public  house, έΑΦ tbe  poor 
Woman  contents  herself  with  Tea  and  Bread  and  Butter, έΑΦ ^and 
the  Children  are  little  better  than  starved. 

Our  neighbours  the  French  are  so  justly  famous  for  their 
skill  in  the  affairs  of  the  Kitchen,  that  the  adage  says,  "as 
many  Frenchmen  as  many  Cooks  ;*'  surrounded  as  they  are 
by  a  profusion  of  the  most  delicious  Wines  and  moat  seduc- 
ing lAquorSf  offering  every  temptation  and  facility  to  render 
drunkenness  delightful,  yet  a  tippling  Frenchman  is  a  **  Rara 
^m┬τ;"έΑΦ they  know  how  so  easily  and  completely  to  keep  Life 
in  repair  by  good  Eating,  that  they  require  little  or  no  adjust* 
ment  from  drinking. 
r  This  accounts  for  that**  toujours  Gm,''┬τfld  happy  equilibrium 
of  spirits,  which  they  enjoy  with  more  regularity  than  any  peo- 
ple :  Their  Stomachs  being  unimpaired  by  spirituous  liquorfl, 
embrace  and  digest  vigorously  the  food  they  sagaciously  pr^ 


BOIUNO.  119 

pans  for  it,  and  reader  aniiBilable  by  cooking  it  suffiicientlyέΑΦ 
wisely  coDtriviog  to  get  the  difficult  part  oflhe  work  of  the 
Stomach  done  by  Fire  and  Water. 

See  Receipt  for  Soup  aod  Bouilli,  (No.  238)  and  Shiu  of 
Beef  alewed,  (No.  493)--Sbio  of  Beef  Soup,  (No.  201,)  and 
Scotch  Barley  Broth,  (No.  204,)  and  page  95. 

To  SALT  Meaf.  (No.  6.) 

Iq  the  Summer  Season  especially,  Meat  is  frequently  spoil* 
ed  by  the  Cook  forgetting  to  take  out  the  kernels ;  one  in  the 
udder  of  a  round  of  Beef, έΑΦ in  the  fat  in  the  middle  of  the 
Round,-^tbose  about  the  thick  end  of  the  Flank,  &c.  if  these 
are  not  taken  out,  all  the  Salt  in  the  world  will  not  keep  the 
the  Meat. 

The  Aet  of  Salting  Meat,  is  to  rub  in  the  Salt  thor- 
oughly and  evenly  into  every  part,  and  to  fill  all  the  holes  full  of 
Salt  where  the  kernels  were  taken  out,έΑΦ and  where  the  Butch- 
er^s  skewers  were. 

A  Round  of  Beef  of  25  pounds  will  take  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  Salt  to  be  rubbed  in  all  at  first,  and  requires  to  be  turn* 
ed  and  rubbed  every  day  with  the  Brine :  it  will  be  ready  for 
dressing  in  four  or  five  days,*  if  you  do  not  wish  it  very  salt* 

In  Summer^  the  sooner  Meat  is  salted  after  it  is  killed  the 
better,  and  care  must  be  taken  to  defend  it  from  the  fiies. 

In  Winter^  it  will  eat  the  shorter  and  tenderer,  if  kept  a  few 
days  (according  to  the  temperature  of  the  weather)  before  it  is 
salted. 

In  Frosty  Weather^  take  care  the  Meat  is  not  frozen,  and 
warm  the  Salt  in  a  Frying-pan.  The  extremes  of  Heatf  and 
Cold  are  equally  unfavourable  for  the  process  of  Salting έΑΦ in 
the  former  the  meat  changes  before  the  salt  can  a┬μfect  it, έΑΦ in 
the  latter  it  is  so  hardened  and  the  juices  are  so  congealed,  that 
the  salt  cannot  penetrate  it. 

If  you  vmh  it  Red,  rub  it  first  with  SaUpetrCy  in  the  propor- 
tion of  half  dn  ounce  and  the  like  quantity  of  moist  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  common  Salt,  (  See  Savoury  Sidt  Beef,  No.  49Q,) 

Yon  may  impregnate  Meat  with  a  very  agreeable  Vegeta- 
ble Flavour,  by  pounding  some  Sweet  Herbs  (No.  459)  and  an 


*  If  not  to  be  cut  till  Cold,  two  dayi  longer  wdting  will  not  only  improre  itt  fla- 
vour, littt  the  Meat  will  keep  better, 

t  In  tbe  West-Indies  they  can  scarcely  cure  Beef  with  pickle,  bat  easilr  preserve 
it  Vy  cttttmf  into  thin  slices  and  dippinnf  thera  into  |Sea  Water  and  tbeu  dryinff 
them  qaickly  inthe  Sun  v  to  which  they  give  tho  name  of  Jerked  Beef^ 


120  BOIUNO. 

Onion  with  ibe  Salt :  you  may  make  it  still  more  relishiog  by 
I  addioga  little  Zest  (No.  1t55)  or  Savoury  Spice^  (No.  457.) 

To  FickU  Meat, 

*^  Six  pounds  of  Salt,  one  pound  of  Sugar,  and  four  ounces 
of  Saltpetre,  boiled  with  four  gallons  of  water  skimmed,  and 
allowed  to  cool,  forms  a  very  strong  pickle,  which  will  pre* 
serve  any  Meat  completely  immersed  in  it.  To  effect  this, 
which  is  essential,  either  a  heavy  board  or  a  flat  stone  must  be 
laid  upon  the  meat.  The  same  pickle  may  be  used  repeatedly, 
provided  it  be  boiled  up  occasionsilly  with  additional  salt  to 
restore  its  strength,  diminished  by  the  combination  of  part  of 
the  salt  with  the  m^eat,  and  by  the  dilution  of  the  pickle  by  the 
juices  of  the  meat  ^tracted.  By  boiling,  the  Albumen  which 
would  cause  the  pickV  to  spoil,  is  coagulated  and  rises  in  the 
form  of  scu^  which  must  be  carefully  removed.'' έΑΦ See  Sujp* 
plcment  to  Encyclop,  Britan, 

An  H-boneof  10  or  12  pounds  weight  will  require  about 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Salt  and  an  ounce  of  Moist  Su- 
gar to  be  well  rubbed  into  it┬τ- will  be  ready  in  four  or.┬μve 
days,  if  turned  and  rubbed  every  day. 

The  Time  Meat  requires  Saltings  depends  upon  the  Weight 
of  ait,  and  how  much  Salt  is  used.  If  it  be  rubbed  in  with  a 
heavy  band,  it  will  be  ready  much  sooner  than  if  only  lightly 
rubbed. 

N.  B.  Dry  the  Salt  and  rub  it  with  the  Sugar  in  a  mortar. 

Pork  requires  a  longer  time  to  cure  (in  proportion  to  its 
weight)  than  Beef:  a  Leg  of  Pork,  should  be  in  salt  eight  or 
ten  days  ;  turn  it  and  rub  it  every  day. 

Salt  Meat  should  be  well  washed  before  it  is  boiled, έΑΦ 
especially  if  it  has  been  in  salt  long, έΑΦ that  the  liquor  ia 
which  the  meat  is  boiled,  may  not  be  too  salt  to  make  Soup  of. 
[No.  218,]  &c.  and  [No.  555.] 

If  it  has  been  in  salt  a  long  time  and  you  think  it  will  be  too 
salt,  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  and  soak  it  in  lukewarm  water 
for  a  couple  of  hours  :  if  it  is  very  Salt,  lay  it  in  water  the 
night  before  you  intend  to  dress  it. 

w3  Round  of  Salted  Beef  (No.  7.) 

As  this  is  too  large  for  a  moderate  family,  we  shalJ  write 
directions  for  the  dressing  half  a  round  :  get  the  Tongue  side. 

Skewer  it  up  tight  and  round,  and  tie  a  fillet  of  broad  tape 
round  it  to  keep  the  skewers  in  their  places. 


BOILING.  121 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  carefnHy  catch  tba 
scum  as  soon  as  it  rises;  let  it  boil  till  all  tbe  wtrai  isremored^ 
and  then  pot  the  boiler  on  one  side  of  tbe  fire,  to  keep  shntner' 
ing  slowly  till  it  is  clone. 

Half  a  round  of  15  lbs.  will  take  about  three  btursέΑΦ if  it 
ifveigbs  more,  give  it  more  time. 

When  you  Uke  it  up,  if  any  stray  scum,  &c.  sticks  to  it,  that 
has  escaped  the  vigilance  of  your  skimmer,  wash  it  off  with  a 
Paste  BrushέΑΦ garnish  tiM  dish  with  Carrote  and  Turnips  :έΑΦ 
send  up  Carrots,  (No.l29,)  Turnips,  (No.  130,)  and  Parsnips, 
or  Greens,  (No.  118,  &c.)  on  separate  dishes.  Pease  pudding 
(No.  556),  and  My  Pudding,  (No.  551,)  are  aH  very  proper 
Accompaniments. 

N.  B.  Tbe  Outside  Slices,  which  are  generally  too  much 
*a)ted  and  too  much  boiled,  will  make  a  very  good  relish  as 
Potted  Bee/,  (No. 503.)  For  using  up  the  remains  of  a  Joint 
of  Boiled  Beef,  see  also  Bubble  and  Squeaky  (No,  505.) 

H'Bone  of  BeefέΑΦ  (No.  8.) 

Is  to  be  managed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  the  Round, 
but  will  be  sooner  boiled,  as  it  is  not  so  solid  :  an  H-tmne  of 
201bs.will  be  enough  in  about  three  hours  and  a  balf, έΑΦ oflOlbs. 
in  two  hours.  Be  sure  tbe  boiler  is  big  enough  to  allow  it 
plenty  of  water  room :  let  it  be  well  covered  with  water,  set 
the  pot  on  one  side  of  tbe  fire  to  boil  gently  ;  if  it  boils  quick 
at  first,  no  art  can  make  it  tender  after ;  the  slower  it  hoils,  the 
better  it  vnll  look,  and  the  tenderer  it  will  be.  The  same  ac- 
companying vegetables,  as  in  tbe  preceding  Receipt.  Dress 
plenty  of  Carrots,  as  cold  carrots  are  generally  a  favourite  with 
cold  Beef. 

Mem. έΑΦ The  Epicures  say  that  the  soft  Fat  like  marrow, 
which  lies  on  the  back ^  is  delicious  when  Hot,  and  tbe  Aare2 
Fat  about  the  upper  corner  is  best  when  ColA 

To  make  perfectly  good  Pease  Soup  in  Ten  Minutes^ 
of  the  Liquor  in  which  tbe  Beef  has  been  boiled,  see  N.  B. 
to  (No.  21  a) 

Obs. έΑΦ In  ┬τ  Mra.  Mason's  Ladies  Assistant"  this  joint  is  calle* 
Haunck'bane  ;  in  "  Henderson's  Cookery,"  Edgebone  ;  in  "  Domes- 
tie  Management,"  Aitch-bont ;  in  "  Reynolds'  Cftokeiy,"  Isehe*bone  ; 
in  "  Mrs.  Lydia  Fisher's  Prudent  Housewife/'  JSch^bone  ;  in  "  Mrs. 
M'lver's  Cookery,"  Hook-bone.  We  have  also  seen  it  speit  Each-bovie 
and  Ridge-bone,  and  we  have  also  heard  it  called  Natch-Bo┬╗k. 
11 


^122  BOILING. 

N,  K  Re┬╗d  the  note  under  (No.  7,)  and  to  make  perfeetly 
good  Pease  Soup  of  the  Pot  Liquor,  in  Ten  Minutes^  see 
Obs.  to  (No.  218,  No.  229,  and  No.  555.) 

Ribs  of  Beef  iolted  and  rolled.  (No.  9.) 

Briskets,  and  the  virions  other  pieces  are  dressed  in  the 
fame  way.  έΑλ*  Wow,  M^ow"  sauce,  (No.  .328,)  is  an  agreeable 
Companion. 

Half  a  Calf  8  Head.  '  (No.  10.) 

Cat  it  in  two,  and  take  out  the  Brains ; έΑΦ wash  the  head  well 
in  sereral  waters,  and  soak  it  in  warm  water  for  ten  minutes 
before  you  dress  it.  Put  the  Head  into  a  Sancepan  with  plen- 
ty of  cold  water :  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  and  the  scum 
rises,  carefully  remove  iέΓυ^  Half  a  CatfVhead  (without  the 
skin^  will  take  from  an  bonr  and  a  quarter  to  two  hours,  accor* 
ding  to  its  size :  ucith  ike  Skin  on,  about  an  hour  longer ; έΑΦ it 
must  be  ateioed  very  gently  till  it  is  tender ;  it  is  then  extremeljr 
nutritive,  and  easy  of  digestion. 

Put  eight  or  ten  Sage  leaves  (some  Cooks  use  Parsley  in┬╗ 
etead,  or  equal  parts  of  each,)  into  a  small  saucepan,  boil  them 
tender  (about  half  an  hour),  then  chop  them  very  fine,  and  set 
them  ready  on  a  plate. 

Wiish  the  Braiss  well  in  two  waters,  put  them  into  a  large 
Basin  of  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  and  let  them  soak  for 
an  hour,  then  pour  away  the  cold,  and  cover  them  with  hot 
water,  and  when  you  have  cleaned  and  skinned  them,  put  themr 
into  a  Stewpan  with  plenty  of  cold  water, έΑΦ when  it  boils,  take 
the  scum  off  carefully έΑΦ and  boil  gently  for  10  or  15  minutes^ 
-έΑΦnow  chop  them,  (not  very  fiue),  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  the  Sage  leaves  and  a  couple  of  tablespoon fuls  of  this 
melted  butter  and  a  little  salt,  (to  this  some  Cooks  add  a  little 
Lemon  juice.  Mushroom  catsup,  and  Cayenne),  stir  them  well 
together,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  well  warmed  (take  care  they 
don't  burn)  skin  the  tongue έΑΦ trim  off  the  roots  and  put  it  in  the 
middle  of  a  dish  and  the  Brains  round  it.  Or,  chop  the  Brains 
with  a  Shallot,  a  little  Parsley,  and  four  hard  boiled  ┬μgg9, 
and  put  them  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Bechamel,  or  Whito 
Sauce,  (No.  2  of  364.)  A  Calf*s  Cheek  is  usually  attended 
by  a  Pig's  cheek,  a  knuckle  of  Ham  or  Bacon,  (No.  13,  or 
|p26,)  or  pickled  Pork,  (No.  11,)  and  Greens,  Brocoli,  Cauli* 


fiOILlKG.  1 23 

l!owers,  or  Peas,  and  always  by  Parsley  and  Batter,  see  (No. 
261,  or  No.  311,  or  No.  343.) 

If  you  like  it  pull  dressed,  score  it  superficially, έΑΦ beat  op 
the  yolk  of  an  Egg;,  and  rub  it  over  the  bead  with  a  feather  ; 
powder  it  with  a  seasoning  of  finely  minced  (or  dried  and  pow*> 
dered)  winter  Savoury  or  Lemon-thyme,  (or  Sage,)  Parsley, 
Pepper,  and  Salt,  and  bread  crumbs,  and  give  it  a  brown  with 
a  salamander,  or  in  a  tin  Duich  oven :  when  it  begins  to  dry, 
sprinkle  a  little  melted  butter  over  it  with  a  paste  brush.     You 
may  GamUk  the  Dish  with  BroUfid  Rashers  of  Baoef┬╗|  (No. 
526,  or  No.  527.) 

Obs, έΑΦ CalpsHeactis  one  of  the  most  delicate  and  favourite 
dishes  in  the  list  of  boiled  meat;  but  nothing  is  more  insipid 
when  cold ;  and  nothing  makes  so  nice  a  Hash  ;  therefore, 
don*t  forget  to  save  a  quart  of  the  Liquor  it  wns  boiled  io,  to 
make  Sauce,  &c.  for  the  Hash,  see  also  (No.  520.)  Cut  the 
bead  and  tongue  into  slices,  and  slice  some  of  the  BacoQ  that 
was  dressed  to  eat  with  tbe  head,  and  lay  them  ready  od  a 
plate. 

Take  the  bones  and  the  trimmings  of  the  Head,  a  bundle  of 
Sweet  Herbs,  an  Onion,  a  roll  of  Lemon  Pee],  and  a  blade  of 
bruised  Mace :  put  these  into  a  saucepan  with  the  quart  of  li┬τ 
quor  you  have  saved,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  an  honr,  pour  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin έΑΦ wash  out  your  stewpan έΑΦ add  a 
tablespoonful  of  fiour  to  the  Brains,  and  Parsley  and  Butter 
you  have  left,  and  pour  it  to  the  gravy  you  have  made  with  the 
bones  and  trimmings :  let  it┬τboil  up  for  ten  m]Qutes,and  theo 
strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  :  season  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
white  Wine,  or  of  Catsup,  (No.  439),  or  Sauce  superlative, 
(No.  429  ;)  give  it  a  boil  up,  skim  it,  and  then  put  in  the  Braius 
and  the  slices  of  Flead  and  Bacon  :    as  soon  as  they  are  thor- 
oughly warm,  (it  must  not  boil)^  the  hash  is   ready.     Some 
Cooks έΑΦ Egg-bread  crumb  aud  fry  the  finest  piece^^of  the  head 
and  lay  them  round  the  hash. 

N.  B.  You  may  garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  slices  of 
Bacon  toasted  in  a  Dutch  oven,  see  (Nos.  526  and  527,)  slices 
of  Lemon,  and  Fried  Bread. 

To  make  Gravy  for  Hashes,  &c.  see  (No.  360.) 

PkUed  Pork^  (No.  11.) 

Requires  more  time  than  any  meat.  When  you  cook  a  Leg 
wash  and  scrape  it  as  clean  as  possible  ;  when  delicately  dres^ 


124  BOILING* 

8ed┬╗  it  is  a  favourite  dish  with  almost  every  body ;  take  care  it 
does  not  Boil  fast ;  if  it  does,  the  Kuuckle  will  break  to  pieces, 
before  the  thick  part  of  the  meat  is  warm  through  :  .a  LEG  of 
seven  pounds  takes  nearly  three  hours  very  Slow  mnjnering. 
Skim  your  pot  very  carefully,  and  |vhen  you  take  the  meat  out 
of  the  BoilerέΑΦ scrape  it  cl┬τao. 

Some  sagacious  Cooks  (who  remember,  to  bow  many  more 
nature  has  given  ┬μyes,  than  she  has  given  Tongues  and  Brains), 
whep  Pork  is  boiled,  score  it  in  Diamonds,  and  take  out  every 
other  square έΑΦ and  thus,  present  a  retainer  to  the  Eye  to  plead 
for  them  (o  the  palate.  A  leg  of  nice  Pork,  nicely  salted,  and 
nicely  boiled,  is  as  favourite  a  cold  relish  as  cold  Ham^-espe- 
cially  if,  instead  of  cutting  into  the  middle  when  hot,  and  so 
letting  out  its  juices,  you  cut  it  at  the  Knuckle,  Slices  broiled, 
as  (No.  487,)  are  a  good  Luncheon,  or  Supper. έΑΦ To  make 
Pfase  Pudding,  and  Peasb  Soup  extempobb*  aee  N^  B.  to 
(Nos.  218  and  555.) 

If  not  done  enough,  nothing  is  more  disagreeable ;  if  too 
much έΑΦ it  not  only  loses  its  colour  and  flavour,  but  its  substance 
becomes  soft,  like  a  jelly. 

It  must  never  appear  at  table  without  a  good  Pease  Pud- 
ding, see  (No.  555,)  and  if  you  please.  Parsnip,  (No.  128,) 
or  Carrots,  (No.  129,)  Turnips  and  Greens,  or  Mashed  Pota- 
toes, &c.  (No.  106.) 

06s.  Remember  not  to  forget  the  Mustard  Pot,  (No.  369, 
No.  370,  and  No.  427.) 

BoiU'Toes,  or  Sucking  Pig's  Feet.         (No.  12.) 

Put  a  thin  slice  of  Bacon  at  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan,  with 
some  broth,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  bit  of 
thyme  :  boil  the  feet  till  they  are  quite  tender  :  this  will  take 
full  twenty  minutes  : έΑΦ but  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights,  will  be 
done  enough  in  ten,  when  they  are  to  be  takea  out,  and  min- 
ced fine. 

Put  them  all  together  into  a  Stewpan  with  some  Gravy, 
thieken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  it  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  to  simmer  for 
five  miaules┬╗freq^aeotly  shaking  thena  about. 

While  this  is  doing,  have  a  thin  slice  of  Bread  toasted  very 
lightly,  divide  it  into  Sippets,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish  : 
pouf  the  mince  and  sauce  into  the  middle  of  it,,  and  split  the 
feet  and  lay  them  round  iu 


BOIUNO.  12  f 

N.  B.  P^iit- t0M  are  spmetiiiiflt  bpiM  uA  4^^  ia  teter, 
Aodlri^d  ┬╗ light  browq. 

Ohs..-έΑΦ li  you  ba?eno  Gravj  io  lh0  vater  yan  stew  tbe  pai* 
titoas  HHj,  put  ao  Ooioo,  a  aprig  of  Ijecnoo  tbye&e,  or  sweet 
Mai^oram┬╗  with  a  blade  of  bruised  Maoe┬τ  a  lew  black  Feppaie, 
and  a  larg9  taaapoooful  of  Mushroom  oataup,  (Np*  439,)  aod 
fou  will  have  a  rery  tolerable  aabatitote  fior  Oravy.  A  bit  of 
<No.  Sd3)  ┬ξriU  be  a  very  great  improvemeat  to  it^ 

Bacon.  (No.  13.) 

Cover  a  pound  of  nice  streaked  Bacoa,  (as  the  Hampshire 
bousewiv^  say έΑΦ that  **  has  beeu  starved  ona  day  and  fed  an- 
other/')  yi'iih  cold  water,  let  it  boil  gently  for  three  quarters  of 
Au  hour ;  take  it  up,  scrape  the  underside  well,  and  cut  off  the 
rind:  grate  a  crust  of  bread  over  it,  as  directed  for  the  Ham  ia 
the  foUowing  receipt,  and  put  it  before  the  fire  for  a  few  mio* 
utes  ;  it  ipust  not  be  there  too  long,  or  it  will  dry  it  and  spoil  it. 

Ttvo  pounds-  will  require  about  an  hour  and  a  half ;  accord- 
iog  to  its  thickne8S,-*-the  hock  or  gammon  being  very  thick,  will 
take  more. 

06s. έΑΦ See  (Nps┬╗  526  ^nd  527) :  when  only  a  HtUe  Bacon 
is  vxmiedf  these  are  the  best  ways  of  dressing  it. 

The  boiling  of  Bacon^  is  a  very  simple  subject  to  comment 
upon^  but  our  main  object  is  to  teach  common  Cooks  the  art  of 
dressing  common  food,  in  the  best  manner :  Bacon  is  some- 
times as  salt  as  salt  can  make  it ;  therefore,  before  it  is  boiled, 
it  must  be  soaked  in  warm  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  changing 
the  water  once ;  then  pare  off  the  rusty  and  smoked  part,  trim^ 
it  nicely  on  the  underside,  and  scrape  the  rind  as  clean  a^ 
possible. 

M  EM.  Bacon  is  an  extravagant  artide  in  Housekeeping^r^ 
there  is  often  twice  as  rnuch^ dressed  as  need  be, έΑΦ when  it  is 
sent  to  table  as  an  aecoq^paniment  to  boiled  Pooltry  or  Veal,  a 
pound  and  a  half  is  a  plenty  for  a  dozen  people.  A  good 
German  Sausage  is  a  very  economical  substitiite  for  Bacon,έΑΦ 
┬τr  fried  Pork  Sausages,  (No.  87.) 

'flam,έΑΦ  (No.  14.) 

Though  of  the  Bacon  kmd,  has  been  so  altered  and  harden- 
ed in  tba  particttlac  way  of  'curing,  that  it  requires  still  moro 
care* 


1^6  BOILINGi 

Hun  is  geaerally  not  half  soaked,έΑΦ- ┬╗bs  salt-  a┬τ  Brine, έΑΦ and 
hard  as  Flint :  and  it  would  pazzle  the  Stomach  of  an  Ostrich 
to  digest  it.     (See  Appendix.) 

Mbm.  The  Salt,  Seasonings  and-  Smoke^  which  preserve  it 
before  it  is  eateii,  prevent  its  solution  afterέΑΦ ^nd  unless  it  be 
very  long,  and  very  gently  stewed,  the  strongest  Stomach  will 
have  a  tough  Job  to -extract  any  nourishment  from  it.  If  it  is 
a  very  dry  fVesiphalian  Ham 9  it  must  be  soaked  according  to 
its  age  and  thickness,  from  12  to  24  hours ;  for  a  Green  York' 
ahire  or  fV^Umoreland  S^am^  from  4  to  8  hours  will  be  suffi- 
cient. Luke-warm  water  will  soften  it  much  sooner  than  cold 
έΑΦwhen  sufficiently  soaked,  trim  it  nicely  on  the  under  side,  and 
pare  off  all  the  rusty  and  smoaked  parts  till  it- looks  delicately 
clean. 

Give  it  plenty  of  water  room,  and  put  it  in  while  the  water 
iscold,έΑΦ *let  it  be  well  scummed,  and  keep  it  simmering,  gently: 
a  middling  siawd  ham  of  fifteen  pounds  will  be  done  enough  in 
about  fcNir  or.  five  hours,  according  to  its  thickness.  If  not  to 
he  cut  till  Cddy  \i  m\\  cni  the  shorter  and  tenderer  for  being 

boiled  still  longer* 

Pull  off  the  Skifi  carefully,  and  preserve  it  as  wlroW  as  possi- 
ble,  it  will  form  an  excellent  covering  to  keep  the  Ham  moist: 
when  you  have  removed  the  skin,  rub  some  Bread  Raspings 
through  a  Hair-sieve,  or  grate  a  crust  of  Bread,  put  it  into  the 
perforated  cover  of  (he  Dredging  box,  and  shake  it  over  it,  or 
glaze  it ;  trim  the  Knuckle  with  a  fringe  of  cut  writing  paper. 
You  may  garnish  with  Spinage,  or  Turnips,  &c. 

06s.-^To  Pot  Ham,  (No.509,)  is  a  much  more  useful  and 
economical  way  of  disposing  of  the  remains  of  the  joint,  than 
making  Essence  of  it,  (No.  352.)  To  make  Soup  of  the  Li" 
^uorat.is  6oi7c┬τitn,^*?e  N.  B.  to  (No.  565.) 

Tongue.  (No.  15.) 

A  Tongue  is  sb  hard,  wbethep  prepared  by  drying  or  pick- 
ling, that  it  requires  much  more  cooking  than  aHam : έΑΦ ^nothing, 
afit┬╗weigh<j  takes  so  long  to  dress  it  properly^ 

A  tongue  thai  has  been  salted  and  dried,  should  be  put  to 
soak  {if^iti^  Old. arid  very  hardj%A  hours  before  it  is  wanted,) 
in  plenty  of  water ; έΑΦ aGreenone  fresh  from  the  pickle  requires 
soakingonly  a  few  hours;: έΑΦ put  your  Tonguo.  into  plenty  of 
Cold  water,  let  it  be  an  hour  gradually  warming,  and  give  it 
kom  three  and  a  half,  to  four  hours  very  dow  simmeringj  iac-- 
(SArdiogto  the  size,  6i?c. 


boiling;  1┬μ7 

Ohs, έΑΦ WheD  yoQ  cbooae  a  Toogiie,  endeaTour  to  leani'hovji^ 
long  it  has  been  dried  or  pickled ┬╗ έΑΦ pick  out  the  p\oopetty  and 
that  which  has  the  smoothest  akin,  which  denotes  its  being 
young,  and  of  coarse  it  is  more  likely  to  be  tender. 

The  Roots,  &c.  make  an  ezcelleot  Relish  poTTEOy  like  (No. 
609)έΑΦ or  Pease  Soup,  (No.  218t) 

N.  B┬τ  Our  correspondent,   who  wished  as  in   this  Edition. 
to  give  a  Receipt  to  Roast  a  Tongub,  will  find  an  answer  in 
(No.  82.)' 

Turkeys^  Fowlsy  Sfc.  (No.   1 6.) 

Are  all  Boiled  exactly  in   the  same  manner,  only  allowing 
time  according  to  their  size.     For  the  Stufftn^^  &c.  (Nos.  374, 
375,  and  377,)  some  of  it  made  into  Balls,  and  boil^^or  fried* 
make  a  nice  garmsh,  and  are  handy  to  help-^and  you  can  then 
reserve  some  of  the  inside  stuffing  to  eat  with  the  Cold  fowl,, 
or  enrich  the  Hash,  (Nos.  530  and  533.) 

A  Chicken  will  take  about       ....     90  minutes, 

A  Fowl      .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .40 

A  fine  large  Five -toed  Fow4  or  Capon  about  an  hour. 
A  small  Turkey,. an  hour  and  a  half. 
A  large  one  two  hours  or  more. 

Chickens  or  Fowls  should  be  killed  at  least  one  or  twodayv 
before  they  are  to  be  dressed.     Turkeys  (especially  large  oQes)┬τ 
should  not  be  dressed  till  they  have  been  killed  three  or  four  da^^ 
at  least έΑΦ in  Cold  Weather^  six  or. eight,έΑΦ ^r  they  will  neither  b% 
White,  nor  Tender** 

Torkeys,  and  large  Fowls,  should  have  the  strings  or  sinews- 
of' the  thighs  drawn  out.. 

Tboss  them  with  the  legs  outvmrds έΑΦ they  are  much  easier 
carved. 

Fowls  for  BoiZing  should  be  chosen  as  white  as  possible:  if 
iheir  complexion  is  not  so  fail*  a┬τ  you  wish έΑΦ veil  them  in  (No. 
2  of  No.  361 ;)  those  which  have  black  legs  should. be  roasted.. 
The  best  use  of  the  Liver  is  to  make  Sauce,  No.  287. 

Poultry  must  hh  well  washed  in  warm  water έΑΦ if  very  dirty 
from  the  singeing,  &jC.  rub  them  with  a  little  white  Soap έΑΦ 
thoroughly  rinse  it  offr-then  dredge  them  well  with  flour. 


Baker  in  Uf  Chroniele  tells  lu  the  Turkey  did  not  reaeh  ┬μnsrI┬τB4tiillA*.I]U. 
,  ┬τboat  the  Uth  of  Hefiry  the  8th  ;  he  nyu 

**  TbrArief,  carps,  hoppes.piccarell  and  bcei^ 
C  me  into  Engtand  itU  in  one  Tear.*^ 


^  I 


ISd-  boiling; 

%  Make  ┬τgOQcl  aod  clear  fire;  set  oo  a  .clean  pot┬╗  with  pure 
mad  cleeii  water,  enoogb  to  well  cover  the  Turkey,  &c. ;  the 
alower  it  boibi,  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will  be.  When  there 
rfses  any  scum,  remove  it ;  the  oommoo  method  (of  some  who 
Bie  more  aiee  than  wise)  is  to  wrap  them  up  ip  a  cloth,  to  pre- 
vent the  scum  attaching  to  them  i  which,  if  it  does,  by  your 
Beglecting  to  scum  the  pot,  there  is  no  getting  it  off  afterwards, 
┬τad  the  Poulterer  is  blamed  for  the  faults  of  the  Cook. 

If  there  be  Water  enough,  and  it  is  aUentively  scummed,  (he 
Fowl  will  both  look  aod  eat  much  better  this  way,  than  when 
it  has  been  covered  up  in  the  cleanest  cloth  ;  amf  the  colour  aod 
flavour  of  your  Poultry  will  be  preserved  in  the  most  delicate 
perfection. 

(  Obs.  Turkey  deserves  to  be  accompanied  by  Tongue,  (No. 

\  d5,)  or  Ham  (N^.14  ;)  if  these  are  not  come*at-i┬τble,  don't  for- 

get Fielded  Pork,  (No.  11,)  or  Bacon  and  greens,  (Nos.  83 j 
526,  and  &27,)  or  PorA:  Sausage^^  (No.  87,)  Parsley  and  Butter 
(No.  261 ;)  don't  pour  it  over,  but  send  i:  up  in  a  boat ;  Liver, 
(No.  287,)  Egg,  (No.  267,)  or  Oyster  sauce,  (No.  278.)  Ta 
warm  cold  Turkey,  &c.  (No..  533,)  and  following. 

To  Grill  the  Gizzard  and  Rump,  see  (No.  538.)  Save  a 
quart  of  the  liquor  the  Turkey  was  boiled  in-έΑΦ this^  with  the 
bones  ┬τDd  trimmings,  &c.  will  make  a  good  Broth  for  a  Hash, 

RahbUs.  (No  17.) 

Truss  yoiff  RabbitS'sbort,  ky  them  in  a  fiasio  of  warm  wa- 
ter for  ten  minutes, έΑΦ then  put  them  into  plenty, of  water,  aoi 
boil  th^m  ┬τbout  half  an  hour ;.  if  fjarge  ones,  three  q^rters ; 
if  very  Old,  an  hour ;  smother  them  with  plenty  of  White  Onion 
sauce,  (No.  208,)  mince  the  liver,  and  lay  it  round  the  dish, 
er  make  Liver  6a┬τrce  (No.  287,)  4iod  send  it  up  in  a  boat. 

06s. έΑΦ Ask  those  you  are  going  to  make  Liver  sauce  for,  if 
they  like  plain  Liver  sauce,  or  L^ver  and  Parsley,  or  Liver  and 
Lemon  sauce,  see  (Nos.  287  and  288.) 

N.  B.  Il  will  ^ave  much  trouble  to  the  Carver,  if  the  Rabbits 
be  cut  up  in  the  Kitchen έΑΦ into  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  and 
the  Head  divided έΑΦ and  one  half  laid  at  each  endέΑΦ and  slices  of 
Lemon έΑΦ and  the  Liver  chopped  very  findy,  kid  on  the  sidest^ 
of  the  Dish* 


BOILINQ.  1 39 

Tt-ipe.  (No.  18.) 

Take  care  to  have  fresh  Tripe,  cleanse  it  well  from  the  fat┬╗ 
and  cut  it  ioto  pieces  about  two  iocbes  broad  aod  four  loog  : 
put  it  ioto  a  sUHvpta  4nd  cover  it  with  milk  and  water, and  let 
it  boil  geotly'till  it  is  leader. 

If  the  Tripe  has  been  prepared  as  it  usually  is  at  the  Tripe 
shops,  it  will  be  enough  in  ^abont  an  hour ;  (this  depends  upon 
how  long  it  has  been  previously  boiled  at  the  Tripe-shop)  ;  if 
entirely  undressed έΑΦ it  will  require  two  or  three  hours έΑΦ this 
also  depends  much  on  the  Age  and  Quality  of  it. 

Make  some  Onion  sauce  i┬τ  the  same  manner  as  you  do 
for  Rabbits,  (No.  S98,)  or  boil  (slowly  by  themselves)  some 
Sp┬τnish,^or  the  whitest  common  Onions  .you  Gan^et;-┬τ*petl 
them  before  you  boil  them;  vwhoi  Iheyaie  iaoder,  which  ┬τ 
middlii^  sized  Onion  will  he  in  a^ot  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  drain  them  in  a.htur.sievf,  take  dff  the  top  s^ins  till  ihoy 
kMkoiDaand  white^iaad  pt^  d>┬τm  with  tha  Tsipe  Into  a  tureen 
or  doup-disb,  and  take  off  the  fat  if  any  floats  <on  the  sarface. 

O&s.έΑΦ rRashers  of  Bacon,  (Nos.  ffte  aqd  627,)  or  Fried 
SaoMigeB  (No.  8!7^)  are  a  ^ly  Hfood  aoc^mpaniroaftt  to  boiled 
Tape,  Cow  heels,  ┬τ(No  198,)  ┬τr  Calf 'a  feet,  see  Mr.  Kvlly's 
Sauce,  (No.  311,*)  or  Parsley  and  Butter,  (No.  261,)  or  Oa- 
per  Sauce,  (No.  274,)  with  a  little  Yinegar  and  Mustard  added 
to  rbem-^'nor  Salad  Mixiunc!,  (^0^372  or  453.)  See  Appendix. 

έΓυ!mv  Hrel,  (No.  18*.) 

This,  isn  the  hands  pf.a  skilful  Cook, έΑΦ will  furnish  several 
jgood  Mea^sέΑΦ *when  boiled  teiider,  see  (No.  1^98^  cut  into 
handsome  pieces,  Egg  and  Bread  crumb  them,  and  Fry  them  a 
light  brown έΑΦ and  lay  them  round  a  dish,  and  put  in  the  mid- 
dle of  it  sliced  Onions  fried,  or  the  accoro.paDiments  ordered  for 
Tripe,  the  LUpmr  Shty  were  boiUd  in  will  UMike  Soups,  (No. 
229,  No.  240*,  or  No.  656.) 

N.  B.  We  give  no  Rece^^^Jts  to  boil  Vewson,  Geese,. 
Ducks,  Pheas4NT3,,  Woodcocks,  and  Peacocks,  &c. έΑΦ as 
Otir  aim  has  been  to  make  a  useful  Book'*έΑΦ not  a  Bi^  Qne,,see 
(No.  82.) 


THE 

COOK^S  ORACLE. 


ROASTING. 


N.B.  r/ the  Time  we  have  allowed  for  Roasting y  appears  rather 
longer  than  what  is  stated  in  former  works,  we  can  only  say,  we  hac6 
written  from  actual  ExperimentSjέΑΦand  that  the  difference  may  be  ae- 
couniea  for,  by  emnmon  Cooks  generally  being  fond  of  too  fierce  a 
Jire,  putting  things  too  near  to  it.  Our  calculations  are  made  for  a 
Temperature  ofaffout  60  degrees  of  Fahrenheit, 

Slow  Roastimg-  m  as  advantageous  as  Slow  Binling,  of  which  evertf 
body  understands  the  importance. 

The  Warmer  the  weather,  and  the  staler  killed  the  Meat  isέΑΦ4ht  less 
time  it  will  require  to  roast  it.-^ Beef  is  in  proper  season  ihrou^hoxA 
the  whole  year^  bull  as  BulcTiers  generally  calculate  upon  its  being  a 
Saodaj'c  Dinner,  you  can  seldom  dtpend'upon  its  being  tender  on  any 
9ther  day. 

Sir-Loin  of  Beef.  (No.  19.) 

The  Noble  Sir-Loin*  of  about  fifteen  pounds,  (if  much 
thicker,  the  outside  will  be  dene  too  much  before  the  inside  is 
enough,)  will  require  to  be  before  the  fire  about  three  and  a 
half  or  four  hours  :;  take  care  to  spit  it  evenly,  that '  it  may  not 

*  This  Joint  is  nid  to  owe  its  nttme  to  King  Cbarlei  tbe  II.  JRrho  dininjir  ^P^  <^ 
┬μoin  of  Beef,  and  being  partieulftriy  pleased  with  iti  asked  the  name  of  the  Joiut; 
laid  Hw  Its  merit  it  should  be  ibivAf┬τ┬τ't┬╗id  henceforth  called  5k'r-Loin. 

**  Our  second  Charles  of  fame  fiueete. 

On  loin  of  Beef  did  dine ; 
He  held  bis  swiwd,  pleas?d  o*er  the  meat,. 

Arise,  thon  fhmM  Slfr-Loin.^ 

Ballad  of  the  New  Sir  John  Barleyconu  έΨι 
The  Ballad  of  "  The  Gates  of  Calais"  calls  it 
**  RenownM  AV-LoinfOft'times  decreed 

The  theme  of  English  Ballad ; 
On  thee  our  kings  oft  deign  to  feed , 

Unknown  to  Frenchman's  palate ; 
Then  how  much  doth  thy  taste  exceed > 

9i>up-m<┬╗gre,  frogs,  and  salad  4 1* 


ROASTING.  131 

"be  beaTier  on  one  side  than  the  other ; έΑΦ put  a  little  dean  Drip- 
ping into  the  dripping  pan,  tie  a  sheet  of  paper  orer  it  to jpre- 
seinje  th┬╗  Fa^i  baste  it  well  as  soon  as  it  is  put  dowo┬╗  and  ev- 
ery quarter  of  an  hour  all  the  time  it  ts  roasting,  till  the  last 
half  hour :  then  take  off  the  paper,  and  make  some  gravy  for  if, 
(No.  326,)  stir  the  fire  and  make  it  dear :  to  Brawn  and  Froth 
ity  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it,  baete  it  with  butter^  and  dredge 
it  with  floor  ;  let  it  go  a  few  minutes  longer,  till  the  froth  rises, 
take  h  up,  pat  it  on  the  dish,  &c. 

Garnish  it  with  Hillocks  of  horseradish  scraped  as  fine  ob 
possible  with  a  very  sharp  knife^see  (Nos.  458  and  399*.)  A 
Yorkshire  pudding,  is  an  excellent  accompanimenty(No.  595^) 
or  (No.  554.) 

Ob8,-έΑΦThe  Inside  of  the  Sir^Loin^  must  never  be  cat  i  Hot* 
but  reserved  entire  for  the  hash,  or  a  mock  hare  (No.  67*.) 

.έΑλ^WέΑΦ  έΨι  έΨι      '     '  '  I  έΨι  έΨιέΨι    έΨι    έΨιέΨι!  έΨι    I  έΨι  I    IBII       I         I         ^1έΑΦ MέΑΦ ^^> 

t  "  In  tbe  presentfoihion  of  Fatting  Cattle,  it  ii  more  desirable 
to  roast  away  the  Fat,  than  to  preserve  it.  If  the  honourable  Socie- 
ties of  Agriculturalists  at  the  time  they  consulted  a  learned  Profes┬τ 
sor  about  the  composition  of  Manures,  had  consulted  some  competent 
authority  on  the  nature  of  Animal  substances,  the  Public  might  have 
escaped  the  over-grown  corpulency  of  the  Animal  flesh,  which  every 
where  fills  the  markets." έΑΦ Domestic  Managementy  12mo,  1813. 

'*  Game  and  other  witd  animals  proper  for  food,  are  of  very  supe* 
rior  qualities  to  the  tame έΑΦ from  the  total  contrast  of  the  circumstan- 
ces attending  them.  They  have  a  free  range  of  exercise  in  the  open 
air,  and  choose  their  own  food,  the  good  effects  of  which  are  very 
evident  in  a  short  delicate  texture  of  flesh  found  only  in  them.  Their 
juices  and  flavour  are  more  pure,  and  their  Fai,  when  it  is  in  any 
degree,  as  in  Venison,. and  some  other  instances,  diflers  as  much  from 
that  of  our  fatted  Animals,  as  Silver  and  Gold  from  the  grosser  me- 
tals. The  superiority  of  Welch  Mutton  and  Scotch  Beep  is  ow- 
ing to  a  similar  cause.*'έΑΦ /&t<l.  p.  150. 

If  there  is  more  Fat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with  the  Meat, 
cut  it  oflT,  it  will  make  an  excellent  Pitddikg,  (No.  554 ;)  or  clarify  it, 
*ee  (So.  84,)  and  use  it  for  Frying :έΑΦ for  those  who  like  their  meat 
done  thoroughly,  and  use  a  moderate  fire  for  roasting,  the  Fat  need 
not  be  covered  with  paper. 

J/your  Beef  it  large,  and  your  Family  small, έΑΦ cut  ofi'the  thin  end 
and  salt  it, έΑΦ and  cut  out  and  dress  the  fillet,  (t.  e.  commonly  called 
the  inside)  next  day  as  Mock  Habe,  (No.  68* ;)  thus  you  get  Thres 

food  hot  Dinners.    See   also  the  Appendix  to  Chapter  9έΑΦ on  Made 
>ishes.  For  Sauce ^br  eotd  Beef,  see  (No  359,)  and  Cucumber  Vine- 
gar, (No.  399)  Horseradish  Vinegar,  (Nos.  399*  and  458.) 

t  "  This  joint  is  often  spoilt  for  the  next  day's  use,  by  an  injudi- 
cious mode  of  Carving.  If  you  object  to  the  outside,  take  the  brown 
off,  and  help  th)S  aextέΑΦ by  the  cutting  it  only  on  one  side,  you  pre- 


^Xfr-mi 


132  ROASTIN9. 

fFtyr  the  Reodpi  to  HuA  or  BroU  Beef,  see  No.  484),  and 
(Noi┬τ  486┬τ  487  ;>  aod  for  other  ways  of  employing  the  remains 
ol  a  joint  of  oold  Boef,  (eea  Nos.  603, 4,  5, 6.) 

Ribs  of  Beef.  "      (No.  20.) 

The  Thksv  riBST  Bibs^  oI  fifteen  or  twenty  pjouade,  wiU 
take  threo  hoofi^  or  tbiee  end  a  half:  the  fovbth  and  Fina 
Ribs  will  take  em  longy  m┬τMif┬╗d.ia  (be.  same  way  as  the  Sic* 
Loin. έΑΦ Paper  the  Fat,  aod  the  thin  party  or  it  will  be.  done  too 
BMiehv  befere- the  tbieb  part  is  done  eaougb. 

N.  Bit  a  Pig*Iiwt  pieced  befove  it  on  the.  ban  of  .the  gnte 
asswere  every  purpose  of  iseepiDg  the  thin  part  from  being  too 
much  done. 

06s. έΑΦ Many  pereens  prefer  ilM'Ribe  to  the  Stt-Loiti. 

Ribs  of  Beef  honed  and  roUed.     (No.  ^1.) 

When  you  have  kept  two  or  three  ribs  of  beef  till  qnite-tei^ 
der,  take  out  the  bonee,  and  skewer  it  as  rotiod  as  posni^e,  (like 
a  fiHet  of  veal:)  before  they  roll  it,  some  Cooks  Egg  it,  and 
sprinkle  it  with  Veal  steffing,  (No.  374┬τ)  As  the  meat  is  more 
in  a  solid  mass,  it  will  require  more  time  at  the  fire  thao  ia  thi 
precedrag  receipt ;  a  piece  of  ten  or  twelve  pounds  weigbt 
will  not  be  well  and  thoroughly  roasted  ia  less  than  four  and  a 
half  or  five  hours. 

For  the  first  half  hour,  it  shoufd  not  be  lees  tbsio  12  iocbas 
from  the  fire,  that  it  may  get  gradually  warm  to  the  centre:  the 
hut  half  boor  before  it  wiU  be  finished,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
it ;  and  if  you  wish  to  froth  it,  fioar  it,  &c. 

MUTTON^  (No.  23.) 

As  Beef  requires  a  large  sound  fire.  Mutton  must  have  a 
brisk  and  sharp  one :  Tf  you  wish  to  have  Mutten  tender,  it 

serve  the  Gravy  in  t)ie  meat,  aod  the  goodly  appearance  aho έΑΦ by  cut- 
ting it,  on  the  contrary,  down  the  middle  of  this  joint,  all  the  Gravy 
runs  oat,  it  becomes  (ky,  and  exhibits  a  most  unseemly  aspect  when 
brought  to  table  a  second  time. έΑΦ From  Udx's  Cookery,  8to.  1818,  p< 
100. 

έβο  De┬τn  Swift*8  RectipttoRottH  Mutton. 

ToOeniniani^  beauUfUl  airέΑΦ**  Gently  touch  t/ic  vunriling  Lyre┬╗^ 

**  Oently  stir  and  blow  the  fiw. 
Lay  tbe  mutton  down  to  roast, 

Drew  itqoiekly  I  derire. 
In  the  drippinn^  pat  a  toatti 

That  I  hanger  may  remoreέΑΦ 

Mutton  ii  the  meat  I  love.  **  On 


ROASTING.  153 

should  be  hung  as  long  as  it  will  kei^p*  :  and  then  good  eighi^ 
iooth,  i.  e.  four  years  old  Mutton,  is  as  good  eating  as  Venison^ 
if  it  is  accompanied  by  (Nos.  3^9)  and  (346.) 

The  Leg,  Haunch,  and  Saddle  will  be  the  better  for  being 
hong  up  in  a  cook  airy  place  for  four  or  fire  da^s  at  least;  ki 
Temperate  weather,  a  week  ;  in  Cold  weather,  ten  days. 

Tf  you  think  your  Mutton  will  not  be  tender  enough  to  do 
honour  to  (he  Spit,  dress  it  as^a  *<  GigU  de  sept  heures^*  see 
N.  B.  to  (No.  1,)  and  (No,  493.) 

^  ^g^έΑΦ  (No.  24.) 

Of  eight  pounds  will  take  about  two  hours  :  let  it  be  well 
basted  and  frothed  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  in  (No.  19.) 
To  Hash  Mutton,  (No.  484.)  To  Broil  it,  (No.  487,)  &e. 

A  Chine  or  SaddUs,-έΑΦ  (No.  26.) 

(i.  e.  the  two  Loins,)  of  ten  or  eleven  pounds έΑΦ two  hours 
and  a  half :  it  is  the  business  of  the  Butcher  to  take  off  the 
akin  and  skewer  it  on  again έΑΦ to  defend  the  meat  from  extreme 
beat,  and  preserve  its  succulence έΑΦ if  this  is  neglected  tie  a  sheet 
of  paper  over  it :  (baste  the  strings  you  tie  it  on  with  directly, 
or  they  will  burn  :)  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  you 
think  it  will  be  done,  take  off  the  skin  or  paper,  that  it  may  gat 
a  pale  brown  colour έΑΦ and  then  baste  it  and  flour  it  lightly  to 
froth  it.     We  like  (No.  346)  for  sauce. 

N.  B.  Desnre  the  Butcher  to  cut  off  the  flaps  and  the  tail 
and  chump  end,  and  trim  away  every  part έΑΦ that  has  not  indis- 
putahle  pretensions  to  be  eaten.  This  will  reduce  a  Saddle  of 
41b.  weight  to  about  six  or  seven  lb. 


**  On  the  drester  lee  it  lie ; 
Ohl  the  cbarming^  white  and  red; 

Finer  meat  neVr  met  the  eye, 
On  the  sweetest  iprass  it  red  : 

Let  the  jack  go  swiftly  round. 

Let  me  hare  ti  nicely  brown'd. 

**  On  the  table  spread  the  cloth, 
Let  the  Knires  be  sharp  and  clean, 

Pickles  get  and  salad  both, 
Let  them  each  be  fresh  and  green. 

With  small  beer,  good  ale,  and  wine* 

O  ye  gods  I  how  I  shall  dine  V* 

*  See  the  chapter  of  Advice  to  Cookie 
12 


IH  ROASTING, 

A  Shoulder,  (No.  27.> 

Of  seven  pounds,  an  hour  and  a  half;  put  the  spit  in  close 
to  the  shank  bone,  and  run  it  along  the  blade  bone. 

N.  B.  The  BLADE  BONB  is  a  favourite  Luncheon  or  Supper 
relish,  scored^  peppered  and  salted,  and  boiled,  or  done  in  a 
Dutch  Oven. 

A  Lom,+  (No.  28.) 

Of  Mutton,  from  an  hour  and  a  half,  to  an  hour  and  three 

quarters.     The  most  elegant  way  of  carving  thisy  is  to  cut  it 

lengthwise,  as  you  do  a  Saddle,  reind  (No.  26.) 

N.  B.  Spit  it  on  a  skewer  or  lark  spit,  and  tie  that  on  the 

common  spit,  and  do  not  spoil  the  meat  by  running  the  spit 

through  the  prime  part  of  it 

A  Neck,  (No.  29.) 

About  the  same  time  as  a  Loin.  It  must  be  carefully  joint- 
ed, or  it  is  difficult  to  carve.  The  Neck  and  Breast  are  in  small 
families  commonly  roasted  together έΑΦ the  Cook  will  then  crack 
the  bones  across  the  middle  before  they  are  put  down  to  roast 
-έΑΦif  this  is  not  done  carefully,  they  are  very  troublesome  to 
carve, 

Obs, έΑΦ If  there  is  more  Fat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with 
the  lean,  cut  it  ofl^  and  it  will  make  an  excellent  Suet  Pudding, 
(No.  551,)  or  (No.  554.) 

N.  3.  The  best  way  to  Spit  this,  is  to  run  iron  skewers  across 
it--r|ind  put  the  spit  between  them. 

A  BreoBt,  (No.  30.) 

An  hour  and  a  quarter.. 
To  Grill  a  Breast  of  Mutton,  see  0(5.  to  (No.  38.) 

A  Hamwh,  (No.  31.) 

(i,  e.  the  leg  and  part  of  the  loin)  of  Mutton  ;  send  up  two 
aauce  boats  with  it ;  one  of  rich  drawn  Mutton  Gravy,  made 
without  Spice  or  Herbs,  (No.  347,)  and  :the  other  of  Sweet 


fCtmmon  Cookt  very  teldom  hrvwn  the  end*  of  Keefa  and  Loine  s  to  hxre  thi* 
done  nicely,  let  the  fire  be  a  few  inches  longer  at  each  end,  than  the  joint  that  it 
roasting,  andoecasionaUy  place  the  spit  slanting,  so  that  each  end  may  get  sufficient 
fire  i-Hsiherwiie,  afinr  the  meat  is  done  you  must  take  it  up,  and  pat  th?  en4┬╗  he┬μ┬╗)┬╗^ 
0iefir^ 


ROAStlNd.  ISS 

Sauce,  (No.  346.)     It  generally  weighs  about  15  poundsj  and 
requires  about  three  hours  and  a  half  to  roast  it. 

Mutton^  Femson  fashion,         (No.  32┬τ) 

Take  a  neck  cf  good  four  or  five  year  old  south-doiva 
wether  Mutton  cut  long  in  the  bones :  let  it  hang  (in  tem- 
perate weather)  at  least  a  week :  two  days  before  you  dress  it, 
take  aHspice  and  black  pepper  grouod  and  peuoded  fine,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  each,  rub  them  together,  and  then  rub 
your  mutton  well  with  this  mixture  twice  a  day  : έΑΦ when  you 
dress  it,  wash  off  the  spice  with  warm  water,  and  roast  it  in ' 
paste,  as  we  haTe  ordered  the  haunch  of  Tenisoo : έΑΦ (No.  63.^ 

Obs, έΑΦ Persevering  and  ingenious  Epicures,  have  ioTented 
many  methods  to  give  Mutton  the  flavour  of  Venison έΑΦ some 
say  that  Mutton  prepared  as  above,  may  be  mistaken  for  Veni' 
B9n έΑΦ others  that  it  is  full  as  good ;  the  refined  palate  of  a  Grand 
Crourmand  (in  spite  of  the  Spice  and  Wine  the  meat  has  been 
fuddled  and  robbed  with)  will  perhaps  still  protest  against 
^  Welch  Venison^ έΑΦ and  indeed  we  do  not  understand  by  what 
conjuration  Allspice  and  Claret  can  communicate  the  flavour  of 
VsHisoN  to  Mtt</onέΑΦ we  confess  our  fears  that  the  flavour  of 
Venison  (especially  of  its  Fat)  is  inimitable έΑΦ but  believe  you 
can  procure  Prime  eight^tooth  Wether  Mutton,  keep  it  the 
proper  time,  and  send  it  to  table  with  the  accompaniments  (No. 
346)  and  (347,)  &c.  usually  given  to  Venison.  A  rational 
Epicure  will  eat  it  with  as  much  satisfaction,  as  be  would 
┬τ  feed  on  the  King's  Fallow  Deer." 

VEAL.  (No.  33.) 

Veal  requires  particular  care  to  roast  it  a  nice  Brown.    Let 

the  fire  be  the  same  as  for  Beef ;  a  sound  large  fire  for  a  large 

joint,  and  a  brisker  for  a  smaller :  put  it  at  some  distance  from 

the  fire  to  soak  thoroughly,  and  then  draw  it  near  to  finish  it 

brown. 

When  first  laid  down,  it  is  to  be  basted ;  baste  it  occasionally. 
When  the  Veal  is  on  the  dish  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  x>f  melted 
Butter,  (No.  256) ;  if  you  have  a  little  brown  Qravy  by  you, 
add  that  to  the  Butter,  see  (No.  326.>  With  those  joints  which 
are  not  Stuffed^  send  up  Forcemeat^  (No.  374,)  or  (No.  375i) 
in  Balls,  or  rolled  into  Sausages  as  garnish  to  the  dish,  or  fried' 


tS6  EOASTING, 

Pork  Sausages,  (No.  87.)    Bacon,  (No.  1 3)  or  (526)  or  (527) 
and  greens,  are  also  alwsys  expected  witb  Veal. 

Fillet  of  Veal,  (No.  34.) 

or  from  twelve  to  sixteen  poundS)  will  require  firom  four  to 
five  hours  at  a  good  fire  ;  make  some  Stuffing  or  Forcemeat, 
(No.  374)  or  (5,)  and  put  it  under  the  flap,  tbat  there  may  be 
some  left  to  eat  cold,  or  to  season  a  HAsni  :  bsown  it,  aod 
pour  good  melted  butter,  (No.  266,)  over  it,  as  directed  io 
(No.  33.) 

Garnish  with  thin  slices  oF  lemon,  and  Cakes  or  Balls  of 
Stuffing,  of  (No.  374,)  or  (No.  375,)  or  Duok  stuffing,  TNo. 
61,)  or  fried  pork  Sausage?,  see  (No.  87,)  Curry  Sauce,  (No. 
348,)  Bacon,  (No.  13,)  and  Qreeos,  &c. 

N.  B.  Potted  Veal,  (No.  533.) 

O&s. έΑΦ A  bit  of  the  Browa  outside  is  a  favoBrite  with  ths 
Epicure  in  Roasts.  The  Kidnbt  cut  out έΑΦ sliced  and  broil- 
ed, see  (No.  538,)  is  a  high  relish  whieb  some  B^na  FmmU 
are  fond  of. 

A  Loin^"^  (No.  35.) 

Is  the  best  part  of  the  Calf,  and  will  take  about  three  hoars 
roasting.  Paper  the  kidney  fat,  and  the  back :  some  Cooks 
send  it  up  on  a  Toast,  which  is  eaten  with  the  Kidney  and  the 
fat  of  this  pai^,  which  is  more  delieate  than  any  marrow,  $ c. 
take  care  to  have  your  fire  long  enough  to  brown  the  ends έΑΦ 
same  accompaniments  as  (No.  34.) 

A  Shoidder,έΑΦ  (No.  36.) 

From  three  hours  to  three  hours  and  a  halfέΑΦ stuff  it  with  the 
forcemeat  ordered  for  the  fillet  of  veal,  in  the  underside,  or 
Balls  made  of  (No.  374.) 

JV*ec^,  beat  end,έΑΦ  (No.  37.) 

Will  take  two  hours  ;  same  accompaniments  as  (No.  34.) 
'f  he  Scrag  part  is  best  made  into  a  pye,  or  broth. 


t  To  Minoe  or  Hash  yetl.see  (No.  511)  or  (ni*,)  imd  to  mtke  a  Btgout  ┬τf  coM 
Veal,  (No.  518.) 


ROASTIHtt.  I  137 

Breast,-^  (No.  a&) 

From  an  bour  and  a  half  to  tsvo  hours.  LeUhe  caal  remain 
till  U  n  alnoiQst  dooa^  thea  tak^  it  off,  to  browD  it ;  baste, 
flour,  and  froth  it. 

Obs. έΑΦ This  makes  a  savour  j  relish  for  a  Luncheon  or  a  Sap- 
per :  if,  when  boiled  eoougb,  you  put  it  in  a  cloth  between  two 
pewter  dishes  with  a  weight  oo  the  upper  one έΑΦ and  let  it  re- 
xnaia  so  till  cold,  thea  pai^  and  trim  it^-<-┬τgg  and  crumb  it,  and 
brcMl┬╗  or  warm  it  ia  a  Dutch  oven  ;  serve  with  it  Capers,  (No. 
274,)  or  Wow  Wow  sauce,  (No.  328.)  Breast  ofMtOUn 
dresied  the  same  way, 

Vedt  Sweeibread,  (No.  $0.) 

Trim  a  fine  Sweetbread,  (it  canuot  be  too  fresh,)  parboil  it 
for  five  minutes,  and  throw  it  into  a  basin  of  cold  water.  Roast 
it  plain έΑΦ or 

Beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  Egg,  and  prepare  some  fine  Bread 
crumbs.  When  the  Sweetbread  is  cold,  dry  it  thoroughly  in 
a  eloth,  run  a  large  spit,  or  skewer,  through  it,  and  tie  it  on  the 
ordinary  spit :  egg  it  with  a  paste  brush,  powder  it  well  with 
bread  crumbs, έΑΦ and  roast  it* 

For  Saace,  fried  Bread  Crumbs  round  it  and  melted  butter 
ivith  a  little  Mushroom  Catsup,  (No.  439,)  and  Lemon  Juice, 
(Nos.  S07,)  or  (354,)  or  (366,)  or  serve  them  on  buttered 
Toast  garnished  with  Egg  Sauce,  (No.  267,)  or  with  Gravy, 
(No.  329.^ 

Obs. έΑΦ instead  of  spitting  them,  you  may  put  them  into  a 
tin  Dutch  oven,  or  Fry  them,  (Nos.  88,)  or  (89,)  or  (513.) 

LAMB,έΑΦ  (No.  40.) 

Is  a  delicate,  and  commonly  considered  Tender  meat έΑΦ 
but  those  who  talk  of  teruier  X┬τam&έΑΦ while  they  are  thinking 
of  the  Age  of  the  Animal,  forget,  that  even  a  Chicken  must  be 
kept  a  proper  time  after  it  has  been  killed,  or  it  will  be  tough 
picking. 

Woeful  experience  has  warned  us  to  beware  of  accepting  an 
invitation  to  Dinner  on  Easter  Sunday έΑΦ and  unless  command- 
ed by  a  thorough  bred  Gourmand-^^m  Incisores  Mwales^ 
and  Princi'pal  Viscera,  have  protested  against  the  imprudence 
of  encountering  Young  tough  stringy  Jlfut/oTtέΑΦ- under  tha 
mismomen  of  Grass  Lamb* 
12* 


138  KOASTiNO* 

,  To  the  usual  aoeompaDioMots  of  Roastad  Meat,  Greew 
Mint  Sauce,  TNo.  3O30  a  Salad,  (Nos.  372)  and  (138*,)  is 
commoiiLy  adoed ;  and  some  Cooks,  about  fi^e  miautes  before 
it  is  done,  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  minced  Parsley,  or  (No.  318.) 

Chrasi  Lamb  is  in  season  from  Eastba  to  Michaelmas. 

House  Lamb  from  Christmas  to  Lady-day. 

S^fii*Lamb,  see  Ob┬╗,  to  following^  iUoeipt 

N.  B.  When  Qreen  mint  cannot  be  got^  Mint  Vinegar,  (No. 
308,)  is  an  acceptable  substitute  for  it. 

Hind  Quarter,-^  (No.  41,) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  take  from  an  hoar  and  three  quarters 
to  two  hours  :  baste  and.  froth  it  in  the  same  way  as  directed 
in  (No.  19.) 

O&s. έΑΦ A  quarter  of  a  PorkUng  is  sometimes  skinned,  cut,, 
and  dressed  Lamb-fashion  and  sent  up  as  a  substitute  for  it. 
The  Leg  and  the  Loin  of  Lamb  should  always  be  roasted  to- 
gether, the  former  being  very  lean,  the  latter  very  fat,  and  the 
Oravy  is  better  preserved. 

Fmre  Quarter ^^^  (No.  42.) 

Of  ten  pounds,. about  two  hours. 

N.  B.  It  is  a  pretty  general  custom,  when  you  take  ofiTtbe 
Shoulder  from  the  Ribs,  to  squeeze  a.  Seville  orange  o?er  them 
and  sprinkle  them  with  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt. 

06s. έΑΦ This  may  as  well  be  done  by  the  Cook  before  it  comes 
to  Table. 

Leg,έΑΦ  (No.  43.) 

Of  five  pounds^έΑΦ from  an  hoar  to  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Shoulder,έΑΦ  (No.  44.) 

With  a  quick  fire,  an  hour. 
See  06s.  to  (No.  27.J 

Ribs,έΑΦ  (No.  45.) 

About  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  qnarter-*^joint  it  nicely έΑΦ 
crack  the  ribs  across,^  and  bend  them  up  to  make  it  easy  to 
canre. 

LntL^  (No.  46.) 

Aa  hour  and  a  quarter.. 


NedcέΑΦ  (No,  47.) 

Ao  hoar. 

BitadέΑΦ  (No,  48.) 

Three  qaartera  of  an  hoar.. 

PORK.  (No.  4P.) 

The  prime  season  for  Pork,  is  from  Michtelma┬╗  to  Mard). 

Take  particular  care  it  be  done  enough  :  other  meats  od- 
derdooe  are  anpleassDt,  hut  PoEs.  ia  absolutely  uneataUe έΑΦ the 
very  sight  of  it  is  euough  to  appal  the  keenest  appetite. 

For  Sauces,  (No^  300,)  (No.  304,)  and  (No.  342.) 

Obs. έΑΦ Pisase  pudding  (No.  555,)  is  as  good  an  accompani* 
menl  to  roasted,  as  it  is  to  boiled  pork ;  and  most  palates  are 
pleased  with  the  Savoury  Powdek'  set  down  in  (Two.  51,)  or 
bread  crumbs  mixed  with  Sage  and  Onion  minced  very  fine, 
or  ZEST  (No.  255)  sprinkled  over  it. 

N.  B.  ^  The  western  Pigs  from  Berks,  Oxford,  and  Bucks,  possess 
a  decided  superiority  over  the  eastern,  of  Essex,  Sussex,  and  Norfolk ; 
not  to  forget  tinother  qualification  of  the  former,  at  which  some  read- 
ers may  smile, έΑΦ a  thickness  of  the  skin,  whence  the  Crackling  of  the 
roasted  Pork,  is  a  fine  gelatinous  substance,  which  may  be  easily 
masticated,  whilst  the  crackling  of  the  thin  skinned  breeds  is  roasted 
into  good  block  Tin,  the  reduction  of  which  would  almost  require 
Teeth  of  Iron." έΑΦ Mqwmkay  en  PouUty,  1816,  p.  242  There  is  a 
second  Edition  of  this  book  which  seems  to  be  the  b^st  work  on  the 
subject  we  have  seen. 

A  Leg,έΑΦ  (No.  50.) 

Of  eight  poonds,  will  require  ahoot  three  hours :  score  the 
skin  across  in  narrow  stripes  (some  score  it  in  diamonds)  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart :έΑΦ ^tuff  the  knuckle  with  sage  aad 
onion  minced  fine,  and  a  little  grated  bread  seasoned  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  Egg;  see  DucsSTUFFiNa  (No. 

61.) 

Rub  a  little  sweet  Oil  on  the  skin  with  a  paste  brush,  or  a 
goose  feather :  this  makes  the  Cracklihg  crisper  and  browner, 
than  basting  it  with  dripping:  and  it  will  be  a  better  colour 
than  all  the  art  of  Cookery  can  make  it  any  other  way.  And 
this  is  the  best  way  of  preventing  the  skin  from  blistering-^ 
which,  is  principally  occasioned  by  its  being  put  too  near  the 
fire. 


140  ROASTflTG. 

Jjeg  of  Pork  roasted  wilkout  the  Skin^  commonly  called 

Mock  Goose*.  (No.  61.) 

Parboil  it,  take  off  the  skin,  and  then  put  it  dowo  to  roa9t ; 
baste  it  with  butter,  aod  make  a  Savoury  Powder  of  finely 
tninced  or  dried  and  powdered  Sage,  ground  black  Pepper, 
Salt,  and  some  Bread  crumbs  rubbed  together  through  a  culleo- 
der :  you  may  add  to  this  a  little  very  finely  mioced  OnioD  y 
spriokle  it  with  this  when  it  is  almost  roasted  ;  pot  half  a  pint 
of  made  gravy  into  the  disb,  aad  Goose  stuffing  (No.  378)  ua- 
der  the  knuckle  skin,  or  garnish  the  Dish  with  Balls  of  it  fried 
or  boiled. 

The  Gmikw?,έΑΦ  (No.  52.) 

Of  seven  or  eight  pounds  may  be  dressed  in  the  sapie  msto* 
ner : έΑΦ ^it  will  take  aji  hour  and  a  half  roasting. 

A  Bacon  Spare- Riby έΑΦ  (No.  53.) 

Usually  weighs  about  eight  or  nine  pounds,  and  will  take 
from  two  to  three  hours  to  roast  it  thoroughly, έΑΦ not  exactly  ac^ 
cording  to  its  weight,  but  the  thickness  ^f  the  o^eat  upon  it, 
which  varies  very  much  : έΑΦ lay  the  thick  end  nearest  to  the 
Fire. 

A  proper  ┬τald  Spare-Rlb  of  eight  pounds  weight,  (so  call- 
ed because  almost  all  the  Meat  is  pared  off,)  with  ck  steady  fire* 
will  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  quarter  : έΑΦ there  is  so  little  meat 
on  a  bald  Spare-Rib,  that  if  you  have  a  large  fierce  fire,  it  will 
be  burnt  before  it  is  warm  through  ;  joint  it  nicely,  and  crack 
the  Ribs  across  as  you  do  Ribs  o^Lamb. 

When  you  put  it  dowo  to  roast,  dust  on  some  flourt  ^o^ 
baste  it  with  a  little  butter ;  dry  a  dozen  Sage  leaves,  and  rub 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  ptit  them  into  the  top  of  a  pepper 
box,  and  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  dpoe, 
baste  it  with  butter,  dust  the  pulverised  Sage,  or  the  Savoury 
powder  in  (No.  51,)  or  sprinkle  with  Duck  Stuffing  (No.  61.) 


έΨι'  r 


*  PrUotila  MtulehurH  in  hn  HwaeheeperU  IfiUrwtor,  Bvo.  SlieAeM,  tM*W> 
19.  ifpve*  as  a  receipt  to  Gousify  a  Shoulder  of  Lanib.   **  Le  ffmnd  Cuinnier  **  w)io 

EYtf  tne  the  Receipt  to  drest  Tuirtle  (No.  210,)  informs  me  tnat  **  to  Lambify"  die 
.;  of  a  Porklinic  ia  a  fiivowitt  Mcttunorphoui  is  (he  French  kitdieD,  wImb  Bo┬τ<9 
lAmb  if  rery  dear. 


ROASTINO*  141 

0&s.-┬╗-Make  it  a  general  rule,  never  to  fx>ur  gfavy  over  anj 
tbing  that  is  roasted ;  by  so  doing,  the  dredging,  &c.  is  washed 
off,  and  it  eats  insipid. 

Some  people  carve  a  Spare-Rib  by  cutting  out  in  slices  the 
tbicl(  part  at  the  bottom  of  the  bones :  when  this  meat  is,  cut 
away,  the  bones  may  be  easily  separated,  and  are  esteemed 
very  sweet  picking. 

Apple  Sauce  (No.  304,)  Mashed  Potatoes  (No.  106,)  and 
good  Mustard  (No.  370,)  are  indispensable. 

Loin, έΑΦ  (No.  54.) 

or  five  pounds,  must  be  kept  at  a  good  distance  from  the 
fire,  on  account  of  the  Cracklings  and  it  will  take  about  two 
hours. 

Stutfit  with  Duck  Stuffin||  (No.  378,)  Score  the  skin  ia 
stripes,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart,  and  rub  it  with  Salad 
Oil,  as  directed  in  (No.  50.)  You  may  sprinkle  over  it,  some 
of  tba  Samury  fovoder  recommended  for  the  Mock  Goose, 
(No.  51.) 

A  CAiitc,έΑΦ  (No.  55.) 

If  parted  down  the  back-bone,  so  as  to  have  but  one  side, έΑΦ 
a  good  fire  will  roast  it  io  two  hours  ^  if  not  parted,  three 
hours. 

N.  B.  Chines  are  generally  salted  and  boiled. 

A  Swking  P%,f  (No.  56.) 

Is  in  prime  order  for  the  spit,  when  about  three  weeks  old. 

It  loses  part  of  its  goodness  every  hour  after  it  is  killed  ; έΑΦ if 
act  quite  fresh,  no  art  can  make  the  Crackling  crisp. 

To  be  in  perfection,  it  should  be  kilied  in  the  morning  to  be 
eaten  at  dinner  ;έΑλέΑΦ it  requires  very  careful  roasting. έΑΦ A  sucking 
Pig,  like  a  young  Child,  must  not  be  left  for  an  instant. 

The  ends,  must  have  more  fire  than  the  middle  ;-^for  this 
purpose  is  contrived  an  Iron  to  bang  before  the  middle  part, 
called  a  Pig  iron.  If  yo'u  have  not  this,  use  a  common  fiat 
Iron,  or  keep  the  fire  fiercest  at  the  two  ends. 

For  the  Stuffing,  take  of  the  crumb  of  a  stale  loaf  about 
five  ounces  ;  rub  it  through  a  eullender ;  mince  fine  a  handful 


t  Mont.  Grimod^  designates  thit  ^*  Animal  moiieitet  ennemi  du  faste^  ct  le  Boi  de* 
Animaux  imtnvnaci,** 


142  RGASTIKO. 

ef  sage,  ({.  e.  abbut  two  ouQces,)  and  a  large  oDion,  (about  air 
oance  aod  a  half*  ;)  mix  these  together  with  an  egg,  some  pep^ 
per  aod  salt,  aod  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  ao  egi^ ;  fill  the  belly 
of  the  pig  with  this,  aod  sew  it  up ;  lay  it  to  the  fire,  aod  baste 
it  with  Salad  Oil  till  it  is  quite  done ; έΑΦ do  not  leave  it  a  mo- 
ment ;  it  requires  the  most  vigilant  attendance. 

Roast  it  at  a  clear  brisk  fire,  at  some  distance.  To  gain  the 
praise  of  Epicurean  Pig-Eaters,  the  Crackling  must  be  nice' 
iy  crisped  and  delicately  lightly  browned^  without  being  either 
blistered  or  burnt. 

A  small  three-weeks  old  Pig  will  be  eooughf  in  about  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

Before  you  take  it  from  the  Fire,  cut  off  the  head,  and  part 
that  and  the  body  down  the  middle ;  chop  the  Brains  very 
fine  with  some  boiled  Sage  leaves,  and  mix  them  with  good 
Veal  Gravy,  made  as  directed  in  (No.  193,)  or  Beef  Gravy,. 
(No.  329,)  or  what  runs  from  the  Pig,  when  you  cut  its  head 
off.  Send  up  a  tureenful  of  Gravy,  (No.  329,)  besides. έΑΦ Cur- 
rant Sauce  is  still  a  favourite  with  9ome  of  the  Old  School. 

Lay  your  Pig  back  to  back  in  the  dish,  with  one  half  of  the 
head  on  each  side,  and  tbe  Ears,  one  at  each  endj  which  yeu' 
must  take  care  to  make  nic^  and  crisps  or  you  will  get  scolded 
as  the  good  man  was,  who  bought  his  wife  a  pig  with  only  one 
ear. 

When  you  cut  off  the  Pettitoes,  leave  the  skin  long  round 
the  ends  of  the  legs.  When  you  first  lay  the  Pig  before  tbe 
fire,  rub  it  all  over  with  Fresh  Butter  or  Salad  Oil,  ten  minutes 
after,  and  the  skin  cooks  dry έΑΦ dredge  it  well  with  flour  all  over 
έΑΦ let  it  remain  on  an  hour έΑΦ then  rub  it  off  with  a  soft  cleth. 

N.  B.  A  Pig  is  a  very  troublesome  subject  to  Roast έΑΦ most 
persons  have  them  Baked;  send  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  beg  the  baker  to  baste  it  well. 


*  Some  delicately  sensitive  Patetet  desire  the  Cook  to  parboil  the  Sage  and  Onions, 
(before  they  are  eutj  to  soften  and  take  off  the  rawneu  ┬τtf  theiisflavouri  the  older 
and  drier  the  Onion,  the  stronger  will  be  its  flavoar,  and  the  learned  Evylyn  orders 
these  to  be  edulcorated,  by  gentle  maceration. 

t  An  ancient  culinary  Sage  saysέΑΦ**  When  yon  see  a  Pie*s  Eyes  drop  out,  you  may 
be  satisfied,  that  he  has  had  enough  of  the  Fire  !**  This  is  no  criterion  that  the  body 
of  the  Vig  u  done  enough,  bat  aines  mecely  from  the  brtskaett  of  the  Fire  before  the 
hflidof  it. 


ROASTING.  ]43 

Turkey,  Turret  Powlts,  and  other  Poultry.      (No,  57J) 

A  Fowl,  and  a  Turret,  require  the  same  management  at 
ihn  fire,  only  the  latter  will  take  longer  time. 

Many  a  Christmas  dinner  has  been  spoiled,  by  the  Turkey 
having  been  bung  up  in  a  cold  larder,  becoming  tboronghly 
frozen  ;  Jack  Fnnt  has  ruined  the  reputation  of  many  a  Tur- 
key Roaster :  therefore,  in  very  Cold  fVeaiherj  remember  the 
Note  in  the  4th  page  of  the  2d  chapter  of  the  Ruoimrhts  of 

CoOKERT. 

Let  them  be  carefully  picked,  &a  and  break  the  breastbone 
(to  make  them  look  plump,)  twist  up  a  sheet  of  clean  writing 
paper,  light  it,  and  thoroughly  singe  the  Turkey  all  orer,  tam- 
ing it  about  over  the  flame. 

Turrets,  Fowls,  and  Cafovs,  have  a  much  better  appear- 
ance, if,  instead  of  trussing  them  with  the  legs  close  togethec, 
and  the  feet  cut  oif,  the  Legs  are  extended  on  each  side  of  the 
bird,  and  the  toes  only  cut  off,  with  a  skewer  through  each 
foot,  to  keep  them  at  a  proper  distance. 

Be  careful,  when  you  draw  it,  to  preserve  the  Liver,  and  not 
to  break  the  Gall-bag^  as  no  washing  will  take  off  the  bitter 
taste  it  gives,  where  it  once  touches. 

Prepare  a  nice  clear  brisk  fire  for  it. 

Make  Stuffing  according  to  (Nos.  374,  or  376,) έΑΦ stuff  it 
under  the  breast,  where  the  craw  was  taken  out,  and  make  some 
into  Balls έΑΦ and  boil  or  fry  them,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish  ; 
they  are  handy  to  help,  and  you  can  then  reserve  some  of  the 
inside  stuffing^to  eat  with  the  cold  Turkey--H>r  to  enrich  a 
Hash,  (No.  533.) 

Score  the  Gizzard έΑΦ dip  it  into  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg  or  melt- 
ed butter,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne 
' έΑΦ put  it  under  one  Pinion,  and  the  Liver  under  the  other, 
cover  the  Liver  with  buttered  Paper,  to  prevent  it  from  getting 
hardened  or  burnt. 

When  you  first  put  a  Turkey  down  to  roast,  dredge  it  with 
Flour,  then  put  about  an  ounce  of  Butter  into  a  basting  ladle, 
ad  as  it  melts  baste  the  bird  therewith. 

Keep  it  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  for  the  first  half  hour,  that  it 

nay  warm  gradually,  then  put  it  nearer,  and  when  it  is  plump- 

xl  up,  and  the  steam  draws  in  toward  the  fire,  it  is  nearly 

snough,  then  dredge  it  lightly  ^ith  flour  and  put  a  bit  of  butter 

10^  your  basting  ladle,  and  as  it  melts,  baste  the  turkey  with  it; 


144  ROASTING. 

ibis  will  raise  2^  finer  Froth  than  can  be  produced  by  usiog  the 
fat  out  of  the  paa. 

A  very  large  Turkey,  will  require  about  three  hoara,  to  roast 
it  thoroughly ;  a  midmng  $ized  one,  of  eight  or  teD  poaods 
(which  is  far  nicer  eating  than  the  very  large  one,)  about  two 
hours ;  a  Small  one  may  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  half.  Tuk- 
KGY  Poults  are  of  various  sizes,  and  will  take  about  ao  hour 
a  half-^they  should  be  trussed  with  their  legs  twisted  under 
like  a  Duck,  and  the  bead  under  the  wing  like  a  Pheasant. 

Fried  Pork  Sausages,  (No.  87,)  are  a   very  savoury  and 

favourite  accompaniment  to  either  roasted  or  boiled  Pouhry.  A 

Turkey,  thus  garnished,  is  called  **  an  Alderman  in  Chains,^* 

Satisage  meat  is  sometimes  used  as  stuffing,  instead  of  the 

ordinary  Forcemeat,  (No.  376,)  &c. 

Mem.  If  you  wish  a  Turkey,  especiaUy  a  very  large  one, 
to  be  tender,  never  dress  it  till  at  least  four  or  five  days  (in  cold 
weather,  eight  or  ten)  after  it  has  been  killed.  *^  No  man  who 
understands  good  living,  will  say  on  such  a  day  will  I  eat  that 
Turkey έΑΦ but  will  hang  it  up  by  four  of  the  large  tail-feathers, 
and  when,  on  paying  his  morning  visit  to  the  larder,  he  finds  it 
laying  on  a  cloth,  prepared  to  receive  it  when  it  falls,  that  day 
let  it  be  cooked.*' 

Send  up  with  them.  Oyster,  (No.  278,)  Egg,  (No.  267,) 
Bread,  (No.  221,)  and  plenty  of  Gravy  Sauce,  (No.  329.)  To 
HASH  Turkey,  (No.  633.) 

Mem.  Some  Epicures  are  very- fond  of  the  Gizzard  and 
Rump  peppered  and  salted,  and  broiled έΑΦ see  (No.  538,) 
"  how  to  dress  a  Devil  with  veritable  SatLce  d'Enfer  !  /" 

Capons  or  Fowls, έΑΦ  (No.  58.) 

Must  be  killed  a  couple  of  days  in  moderate,  and  more  ia 
cold,  weather,  before  they  are  dressed,  or  they  will  eat  tough: 
a  good  criterion  of  the  ripeness  of  Poultry  for  the  Spit,  is  the 
ease  with  whirh  you  can  then  pull  out  the  feathers έΑΦ and  when 
a  Fowl  is  plucked,  leave  a  few  to  help  you  to  ascertain  this. 

They  are  managed  exact'y  in  the  same  manner,  and  sent  up 
with  the  same  sauce  as  a  Turkey,  only  they  require  proportion- 
ably  less  time  at  the  fire : έΑΦ 

A  FULL-GROWN  FivE-TOED  FowL,  about  an  hour  and  a 
quarter ; 

A  MODERATE  SIZE  oue,  an  hour; έΑΦ and 


έΑΦ  "^  i 


ROASTING.  145 

A  Chic&kn  from  thirty  to  forty  roinatM. 

Here  also,  Pork  Sausages  fried,  (No.  87,)  are  in  (^neral  a 
favourite  accoiDpaoiroeDt,  or  Turkey  Stuffing  ;  see  Forcemeats^ 
(Nos.  374,  5,  6  and  7 ;)  put  in  pleoty  of  it,  so  as  to  plump  out 
the  fowl,  which  must  be  tied  dosely  (both  at  the  neck  and 
rump),  to  keep  in  the  stuffing. 

Some  cooks  put  the  Liver  of  the  Fowl  into  this  forcemeat, 
and  others  rub  it  up  with  flour  and  butter,  to  thicken,  and  gi?e 
flavour  to  the  Gravy ;  see  (No.  287.) 

When  the  Bird  is  stufled  and  trussed,  score  the  Gizzard  nie^ 
ly έΑΦ dip  it  into  melted  butter έΑΦ ^let  it  drain,  and  then  season  it 
with  Cayenne  and  Salt έΑΦ put  it  under  one  pinion,  and  the  Liver 
under  the  other έΑΦ to  prevent  it  getting  hardened  or  scorched, 
cover  it  with  double  paper  buttered. 

Take  care  that  your  Roasted  poultry  be  well  hroumedi  it  is 
as  indispensable,  that  roa┬╗ted  poultry  ^ould  have  a  rich  Brown 
complexion,  as  hoUed  poultry  should  have  a  delicate  fVhUe  one. 

Oh.  "  The  Art  of  f  aliening  Poultry  for  the  London  Market,  is  a 
considerable  branch  of  rural  Economy  in  some  convenient  situations 
-^aiid  consists  in  supplying  them  with  plenty  of  healthy  food,  and 
confining  them έΑΦ and  Ducks  and  Geese  must  be  prevented  from  going 
into  water,  which  prevents  them  from  becoming  fatέΑΦ and  they  also 
thereby  require  a  rancid  fishy  taste.  *  They  are  pat  in  a  dark  place 
and  crammed  with  a  paste  made  of  Barley  Meal,  mutton  suet,  and 
some  Treacle  or  coarse  Sugar  mixed  with  milk,  and  are  found  to  be 
completely  ripe  in  a  fortnight.  If  kept  longer,  the  fever  that  is  indu- 
ced by  this  continual  state  of  repletion,  renders  them  red  and  unsale- 
able, and  frequently  kills  them." έΑΦ But  Exercise  is  as  indispensable  to 
health  of  Poultry,  as  other  creatures, έΑΦ without  it,  the  Fat  will  be  all 
accumulated  in  the  cellular  membrane,  instead  of  being  dispersed 
through  its  system.   ST' See  Appendix. 

.έΑλFowls  which  are  fattened  artificially,  are  by  some  Epicures  prefer- 
red to  those  called  Barn-Door  Fowls έΑΦ whom  we  have  heard  say,  that 
they  should  as  soon  think  of  ordering  a  Barn-Door  for  Dinner έΑΦ as  a 
Bam-Door  Fowl. 

The  Age  of  Poultry,  makes  all  the  difierehce  >έΑΦ nothing  is  tender- 
er than  a  young  Chicken, έΑΦ few  things  are  tougher  than  an  old  Cock 
or  Hen,  which  Is  oiSly  fit  to  make  Broth.  The  meridian  of  perfection 
of  Poultry,  is  just  before  they  have  come  to  their  full  growth be- 
fore they  have  begun  to  harden. 

For  Sauces,  (No.  305)  or  Liver  and   Parsley,   (No.  287) 
and  those  ordered  in  the  last  receipt.  To  ijash  it,  (No.  533). 
13 


**  eKpentiyc  plans 

f'ov  ^e'lUging  of  Dripping^pms." 


146  ROASTING. 

Goose.  (No.  59.) 

\  Wbeo  a  Goose  is  well  picked,  singed,  and  cleaned,  make  the 

I  Stuffing  with  about  two  ounces  of  Onion*,  and  half  as  much 
Green  Sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  adding  four  ounces,  i.e.  about 
a  large  breakfast-cupful  of  stale  Bread  crumbs,  and  a  very  little 
Pepper  and  Salt,  (to  this  some  Cooks  add  half  the  Livert, 
parboiling  it  first,)  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  two,  and  incorporating  | 

the  whole  well  together,  stuffthe  Goose ;  do  not  quite  fill  it,  but  | 

leave  a  little  room  for  the  stuffing  to  swell.  Spit  it,  tie  on  the 
spit  at  both  ends,  to  prevent  its  swinging  round,  and  to  keep 
the  stuffing  from  coming  out.    From  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 

┬τ  If  jou  think  the  flavour  of  raw  OnioDg  too  strong,  cut  them  in 
slicesi  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  a  couple  of  hours,  or  add  as 
much  Apple  or  Potatoe  as  you  have  of  onion. 

t  Although  the  whole  is  rather  too  luscious  for  the  lingual  nerves  of 
the  good  folks  of  Great  Britain,  the  Livers  of  Poultry  are  considered 
a  very  high  relish  by  our  Continental  neighbours  ;    and  the  folfowing  \ 

directions  how  to  procure  them  in  perfection,  we  copy  from  the  Rec- 
ipe of  "  tin  Vieil  Amateuf  de  Bonne  Chert  ; έΑΦ  ' 

*^  The  Liver  of  a  Duck,  or  a  Groose,  who  has  submitted  to  the  rules  ' 
and  orders  that  men  of  taste  have  invented  for  the  amusement  of  his 
sebaceous  glands,  is  a  superlative  exquisite  to  the  palate  of  a  Parisian 
Epicure έΑΦ but,  alas,  the  poor  goose,  to  produce  this  darling  dainty, 
must  endure  sad  torments.  He  must  be  crammed  with  meat,  deprir 
ved  of  drink,  and  kept  constantly  before  a  hot  fire έΑΦ a  miserable  mar- 
tyrdom indeed έΑΦ and  would  be  truly  intolerable,  if  his  reflections,  on 
the  consequences  of  his  suflerings,  did  not  aflbrd  him  some  consola- 
i  tion έΑΦ ^but  the  glorious  prospect  of  the  delightful  growth  of  his  liver, 

gives  him  courage  and  support ;  and  when  he  thinks,  how  speedily  it 
will  become  almost  as  big  as  his  Body έΑΦ ^how  high  it  will  rank  on  the 
list  of  double  relishes έΑΦ and  with  what  ecstasies  it  will  be  eaten  by  the 
fanciers  ^'  dts  Foies  gras"  he  submits  to  his  destiny  without  a  sigh έΑΦ 
The  famous  Slrasbourg  Pies  are  made  with  Livers  thus  prepared-, 
and  sell  for  an  enormous  price." 

However  incredible  this  ordonnance  for  the  obesitation  of  a  Goose's 
[  Liver  may  appear  at  first  sight έΑΦ will   it  not  seem  equally  so  to  after 

[  ages,  that  in  this  enlightened  country,  in  1821,  we  encouraged  a  Fol- 

[  ly  as  much  greater έΑΦ as  its  operation  was  more  universal ! έΑΦ Will  it  be 

^  ^believed,  that   it  was  then  considered  the  acme  of  perfection  in  Beef 

and  Mutton  that  it  should  be  so  over-fattened,  that  a  poor  man,  to 
obtain  one  pound  of  Meat  he  could  eat,έΑΦ -must  purshase  another 
which  he  could  not,  unless  converted  into  a  Suet  PuddingέΑΦ -moreover, 
that  the  highest  Premiums  were  annually  awarded  to  those  who  pro- 
duced Sheep  and'Oxen  in*  the  most  extreme  state  of  morbid  ObcHtjif 


ROASTING.  147 

hours  will  roast  a  fine  full-grown  Qoose,  Send  op  Qravy, 
and  Apple  sauce  with  it,  see  (Nos.  300,  304,  320,  and  341). 
To  hash  it,  see  (No.  530). 

For  another  Stuffing  for  Geese,  see  (No.  378). 

Obs.     "  Goott'/eeding  in  the  vicinity  of  the  metropolis  it  lo  larg^e 

a  concern,  that  One  person   annually  feeds  for   market,  upwards  of 

5000."     **  A  Goose  on  a  farm   in   Scotland  taro  years  since,  of  the 

,  clearly  ascertained  age  of  89  years,  healthy  and  Tigorous,  was  killed 

by  a  Sow  while  sitting  over  her  Eggs  ;    it  was  supposed  she  might 

have  lived  many  years,  and  her  fecundity  appeared  to  he  permanent. 

Other  Geese  have  been  proved  to  reach  the  age  of  70  years." έΑΦ Mou- 

BRAT  on  Poultry f  p.  40. 

It  appears  in  Dr.  St avk^9 Experimenis  on  DUt,  p.llO^that  ''when 
he  fed  upon  Roasted  Goose έΑΦ ^he  was  more  vigorous  both  in  Body 
and  Mind,  than  with  any  other  diet." 

The  Goose  at  MichatlmaSf  is  as  famous  in  the  mouths  of  the  mil- 
lion, as  the  Minced  Fie  at  Christmas  ;  J3ut^  for  th^e  who  eat  with 
delicacy,  it  is  by  that  time  too  foU  grown.  The  true  period,  when  the 
Goose  is  in  its  highest  perfection,  is  when  it  ha┬τ  just  acquired  its  ftiU 
growth,  and  not  begun  to  harden.  If  the  Midsummer  goo┬╗e  is  insip- 
id, the  Michaelmas  goose  is  rank.^  the  fine  time,  is  between  both  :  See 
Mock  Gfoe<e,  (No.  61). 

Green  Goose,  (No.  (Kk) 

Geese  are  called  Green,  till  they  are  about  four  mouths  old. 
The  only  difference  between  roasting  these,  and  a  full  grown 
Goose,  consists  in  seasoaiog  it  with  pepper  and  salt  instead  of 
sage  and  onion,  and  roasting  it  for  forty  or  fifty  minutes  only. 

O&s.  This  is  one  of  the  least  desirable  of  those  insipid  pre- 
mature productions έΑΦ which  are  esteemed  dainties. 

Buck  (No.  ai.) 

Mind  your  duck  is  welt  cleaned,  and  wiped  out  with  a  clean 
cloth  ;  for  the  Stuffing  take  an  ounce  of  Onion,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  green  Sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  and  mix  them  with 
two  ounces,!,  e.  about  a  breakfast-cupful  of  Bread  crumbs,  a 
very  little  black  pepper  and  salt,  (some  obtuse  palates  will  re- 
quire warming  with  a  little  Cayenne,  (No  404)  and  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  to  bind  it ;  mix  these  thoroughly  together,  and  put  into 
the  Duck.  For  another  Stctffinq,  see  (No.  ^78).  From  half 
to  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  will  be  enough  to  roast  it,  accord- 
ing to  the  size:  contrive  to  have  the  Feet  delicately  crisp,  as 
some  people  are  very  fond  of  them  :-~to  do  this  nicely,  you 


148  ROASTIMO. 

roust  have  a  sharp  fire.  For  Sauce,  Green  Pease,  (No.  134) 
Bonne  Bouche^  (No.  341)  Gravy  Sauce,  (No.  329)  and  Sage 
and  Onion  Sauce,  (No.  300). 

To  Hash  or  Stew  Ducks,  see  (No.  530). 

N.  B.  If  you  tbiok  the  raw  Onion  will  make  too  strong  an 
impression  upon  your  PaIate,parboi]  it.    Read  Obs,  to  (No.59) 

When  Ducks  begin  to  grow  old,  to  ensure  their  being  ten- 
derέΑΦ in  moderate  weather^  kill  them  a  few  days  before  yon 
dress  them. 

(No.  62.) 

For  the  following  obeervations,  I  am  indebted  to  Major 
Hawkbr^s  entertaining  and  informing  work,  **  In^rwotmuifir 

Young  Sportsmen**  London,  1810. 

"  Old  Pheatantt  may  l^e  distinguished  by  the  length  and  thmpnets 
of  their  tpurSf  ^hich  in  the  younger  ones  are  fAorl  and  blunt, 

**  Old  Partridges  are  known  during  the  early  part  of  the  season,  by 
their  legs  being  of  a  pale  blue,  Instead  of  a  yellowish  broKii;  so  that 
i%hen  a  Londoner  receives  his  brace  of  blue-legged  birds  in  Septem- 
bf  r,  he  should  immediately  snap  their  legs  and  draw  out  the  sinncwa 
by  means  of  pulling  off  the  feet,  instead  of  leaving  tfien  to  torment 
him,  like  so  many  strings,  when  he  would  be  wishing  to  enjoy  his  re* 
past.  This  remedy  to  make  the  legs  tender,  removes  the  objection  to 
old  birds,  provided  the  weather  will  admit  of  their  being  sufficiently 
kept ;  and  indeed  they  are  then  often  preferable,  from  having  a  high- 
er flavour. 

┬τ If  Birds  are  over^kept,  their  legs  will  be  dry,  their  eyes  much  sunk, 
and  the  vent  will  become  soft,  and  somewhat  discoloured.  The  first 
place  to  ascertain  if  they  are  beginning  to  be  high,  is  the  inside  of 
their  bills,  wfiere  it  is  not  amiss  to  put  some  hether  straw,  or  spice,  if 
yon  want  to  keep  them  for  any  length  of  time.  Birds  that  have  fallen 
Into  the  water,  or  have  not  had  time  to  get  cold,  shoald  not  be  packed 
like  others,  but  sent  openly,  and  dressed  as  soon  as  possible." 

Sportsmen  are  often  heartily  abused  by  their  acquaintance, 
(I  cannot  yet  bring  myself  to  hackney  the  word  friends  quite  so 
fluently  as  I  ought  to  do,)  for  sending  them  *  tough  and  good- 
for-nothing  game,'  while  probably  the  blame  should,  in  many 
instances,  rest  with  themselves,  or  their  pudding-headed  cook, 
vrhOy  may  bo,  dresses  an  old  pheasant  or  hare  the  very  day  after 
it  was  killed  ;  or  perhaps,  while  engrossed  in  a  story  or  argu- 
ment, leaves  it  to  roast  away,  till  their  remains  neither  juice  nor 
flavour.  AH  game  should  he  kept  till  properly  tender.  The 
following  sauce  for  wild  fowl  has  been  preferred  to  abput  fifty 


ROASTING. 


149 


others ;  and,  at  one  time,  wea  not  to  be  got  witboat  the  fee  of 
a  guinea  : 

Receipt  far  Sauce  to  WUd  Fetcb. 

Fort  wine,  or  Claret    --'' 1  rtm* 

8┬τiife ak  Ixmeirtfae  oMer  the  betterO    -    1  wbleipMBfitI< 
CatMip   .έΑλ---.-------1  dhio. 

Lemon  Jniee   --- --t  dHttt. 

I>moD  Peel   ---.-------    l  έΑλlien. 

Slialot,(alar^) i  sliced* 

Maee   .έΑλ.-..-- lorSblada. 

To  be  scalded,  strained,  aod  added  to  the  mere  grary  which 
comes  from  the  bird  in  roastiog.  To  complete  this,  the  fowl 
should  be  cut  up  in  a  silver  dish  which  has  a  lamp  under  it, 
while  the  sauce  is  simmeriDg  with  it.      ┬╗ 

Haunch  of  Venison,  (No.  63.) 

To  preserve  the  Fat,  make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  as 
much  as  will  cover  the  haunch,  wipe  it  with  a  dry  cloth  in  every 
part,  rub  a  large  sheet  of  paper  all  over  with  butter,  and  cover 
the  Veoison  with  it,  then  roll  out  the  paste  about  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  thick,  lay  this  over  all  the  fat  side,  and  cover  it  with 
three  or  four  sheets  of  strong  white  paper,  and  tie  it  securely  on 
with  packthread  :  have  a  strong  close  fire,  and  baste  your  veni- 
son as  soon  as  you  lay  it  down  to  roast,  (to  prevent  the  paper 
and  string  from  burning  )  ;  it  must  be  well  basted  at  the  time. 

A  Buck  haunch  generally  weighs  from  SO  to  25  pounds, 
will  take  about  four  hours  and  a  half  roasting,  in  warm,  and 
longer  in  Cold  weather,  a  Haunch  of  from  1^  to  18  pounds 
ivill  be  done  in  about  three  or  three  and  a  half.  A  quarter  of 
an  hour  before  it  is  done,  the  string  must  be  cut,  and  the  paste 
carefully  taken  off;  now  baste  it  with  butter,  dredge  it  lightly 
with  flour,  and  when  the  froth  rises,  and  it  has  got  a  fine  light 
brown  colour,  garnish  the  Knuckle-bone  with  a  ruffle  of  cut 
writing  paper,  and  send  it  up  with  good  strong  (but  unseasori' 
ed)  Gravy,  (No.  34?,)  in  one  boat,  and  Currant-Jelly  Sauce  in 
the  other,  or  Currant-Jelly  in  a  9\de  plate  (not  melted) :  see, 
for  Sauces,  f  Nos.  344,  5,  6,  and  7.)  Mem.  "  The  Alderman's 
Walk"  is  the  favourite  part.  . 

Ohs.  Buck  Venigon  is  in  greatest  perfection  from  Mtdftumraer  to 
Michaelmas ;  and  Thz,  from  P^ovemher  to  January.    Q3*See  Appea; 

13* 


^  I 


150  ROASTINa. 

Neck  and  Shoulder  of  Veftisonr"^  (No.  64,) 

Are  to  be  meoaged  in  the  same  way  as  the  hauoch ;  only 
they  do  not  require  the  coat  or  paste,  and  will  not  require 
80  much  time. 

The  best  way  to  spit  a  neck,  is  to  put  three  skewers  through, 
and  put  the  spit  between  the  skewers  and  the  boues. 

A  Fawn^-^  (No.  65.) 

Like  a  sucking  Pig,  should  be  dressed,  almost,  as  soon  as 
killed.  When  very  young,  is  trussed,  stuffed,  and  spitted  the 
same  way  as  a  Hare.  But  they  are  better  eating  when  of  the 
size  of  a  House  Lamb ;  and  are  then  roasted  in  quarters  ;  the 
hind  quarter  is  the  most  esteemed. 

They  must  be  put  down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and  either 
basted  all  the  time  they  are  roasting,  or  be  covered  with  sheets 
of  fat  bacon  ;  when  done,  baste  it  with  butter,  and  dredge  it 
with  a  little  salt  and  flour,  till  you  make  a  nice  froth  on  it. 

N.  B.  Vie  advise  our  friends  to  half  roast  a  fa\!vn  as  soon  as 
they  receive  if έΑΦ and  then  make  a  Hash  of  it  like  (No.  528.) 

Send  op  Venison  sauce  with  it.  See  the  preceding  Re- 
ceipt or  (No.  344,)  6fc.  ' 

A  KidJ  (No.  65.*) 

A  young  sucking  Kid  is  very  good  eating ; έΑΦ to  have  it  in 
prime  condition,  the  Dam  should  be  kept  up,  and  well  fed,&c. 
Roast  it  like  a  Fawn  or  Hare. 

Hare.  (No.  66.)    . 

<*  Iruer  quadrupeie*  gloria  prima  i<;^t(#.'*έΑΦ If  ardal. 

The  first  points  of  consideration  are.  How  old  is  the  Hare  1 
and  how  long  bae  it  been  killed  ?  When  young,  it  is  easy  of 
digestion,  and  very  nourishing ; έΑΦ when  old,  the  contrary  in 
every  respect. 

To  ascertain  the  age,  examine  the  first  joint  of  the  fore  foot ; 
you  will  find  a  small  knob,  if  it  is  a  Levcrret,  which  disappears 
as  it  grows  older ;  then  examine  the  ears ;  if  they  tear  easily, 
it  will  eat  tender ;  if  they  are  tough,  so  will  be  the  hare,  which 
we  advise  you  to  n^ake  into  Soup,  (No.  141,)  or  stew  ;  or  joo 
it,  see  (No.  523.) 

When  newly  killed,  the  body  is  stiff;  as  it  grows  stale,  it  be┬╗ 
(^omes  limp┬╗ 


ROASTING.  151 

As  soon  88  you  reoeiTe  a  Hare,  take  cot  ihe  Ldver,  parboil 
ity  and  keep  it  for  the  stuffing  ;  some  are  very  food  of  it  :^-do 
not  use  it,  if  it  be  not  quite  fresh  and  good.  Some  mioce  it, 
and  send  it  up  as  a  garnish  in  little  hillocks  round  the  ditb. 
"Wipe  the  Hare  quite  dry,  rub  the  inside  with  pepper,  and  bang 
it  up  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

Paunch  and  skin  *  your  Hare,  wash  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  large 
pan  of  cold  water  four  or  five  hours,  changing  the  water  two  or 
three  times  ;  lay  it  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  dry  it  well ;  thea 
tross  it. 

To  make  the  Stuffing,  see  (No.  379 :)  do  not  make  it  too 
tbin  ;  it  should  be  of  cohesive  consistence  ;  if  it  is  not  soffi* 
cientiy  stiff,  it  is  good  for  nothing  :  put  this  mto  the  belly,  sew 
it  up  tight,  cut  the  neck  skin  to  let  the  blood  out,  or  it  will  never 
appear  to  be  done  enough,  spit  it,  and  baste  it  with  dripping8,f 
(jot  the  juices  of  the  Back  will  be  dried  up  before  the  upper 
joints  of  the  Legs  are  half  done,)  till  you  think  it  is  nearly  done┬╗ 
which  a  middling  sized  Hare  will  be  in  about  an  hour  and  a 
quarter.  When  it  is  almost  roasted  enough,  pat  a  little  bit  of 
butter  into  your  basting-ladle,  and  baste  it  with  this,  and  flour 
it,  and  froth  it  nicely. 

Serve  it  with  good  Gravy,  (No.  329)  or  (No.  347)  and  Cur- 
rant-jelly. For  another  Stuffing,  see  receipt  (No.  379). 
Some  Cooks  cut  off  the  bead  and  divide  it,  and  lay  one  half  on 
each  side  the  Hare. 

Cold  roast  Hare  will  make  excellent  Soup  (No.  241),  chop- 
ped to  pieces,  and  stewed  in  three  quarts  of  water  for  a  couple 
of  hours  :  the  Siting  will  be  a  very  agreeable  substitute  for 
Sweet  herbs  and  seasoning.  See  receipt  for  Hare  Soup  (No. 
^41)^  Hashed  Hare  (No,  529),  and  Mock  Hare,  next  Re- 
ceipt. 

Mock  Hare.  (No.  6(5*.) 

Cut  out  the  Fillet  (ie.  the  inside  lean)  of  a  Sirloin  of  Beef; 
leaving  the  Fat,  to  roast  with  the  joint.     Prepare  some  nice 

*  This,  in  eaiiiiftry  teehnicalt,  is  called  έΓυa*ing  it<-┬τpon  the  lame  pnnέΓυiple┬╗-tiuit 
┬╗'  cfttiiiiir┬╗driBkiiif  and  έΑλleeping',^  are  tmned  tun  natural*. 

t  Mn.  Charlotte  M^aon,ia  her  *  *  Cmnpltu  Syttem  ^fCotkery^  page  3t3,  layi  she 
^  tried  all  the  different  things  recommended  to  haste  a  hare  with,  and  nerer  fbnnd 
any  thin^  so  good  as  mail  beer  ;**  ethen  order  ndlk  ;  Dripping  we  heliere  is  better 
than  any  thing. 

Instead  of  washing^,  a  **  grand  CuiHnier"  sayi,  it  is  much  hetter  to  wipe  the  Haro 
with  a  thin  and  dry  elodi,  as  so  ranch  wmhiBiTt  9t  illdwd  Ymbbig  at  nil,  |ak┬τt  away 
the  flaToor  w  mudi  admired  |p  Haves* 


153  ROASTlNa. 

staffing,  as  directed  for  a  hare,  id  (No.  96,  or  379)  ;  put  this 
On  the  beef,  and  roll  it  up  with  tape,  put  a  skewer  through  it, 
and  tie  that  on  a  spit. 

Obs.  If  the  Beef  is  of  prime  quality,  has  been  kept  till  thor- 
oughly tender,  and  you  serve  with  it  the  accompaniments  that 
usually  attend  roast  bare,  (No.  329 έΑΦ 344,  &c.)  the  most  fastid- 
ious palate  will  have  no  reason  to  regret  that  the  Game  Season 
is  over.    To  make  this  into  Hare  Soup,  see  (No.  241). 

Rabbit.  (No.  (57.) 

If  your  fire  is  clear  and  sharp,  thirty  minutes  will  roaat  a 
young,  and  forty  a  full  grown  Babbit. 

When  you  lay  it  down,  baste  it  with  butter,  and.  dredge  it, 
ligfat'y  and  carefully  with  flour,  that  you  may  have  it  frothy 
and  of  a  fine  light  brown.  While  the  rabbit  is  roasting,  boil 
its  Liver*  with  some  Parsley  ;  when  tender,  chop  them  togeth- 
er, and  put  half  the  mixture  into  some  melted  butter,  reserving 
the  other  half  for  Garnish^  divided  into  little  hillocks*  Cat  off 
the  heady  and  lay  half  on  each  side  of  the  dish. 

06s.  A  large,  well  grown,  (but  young)  warren-rabbit,  kept 
some  time  after  it  has  been  killed,  and  roasted  with  a  stuffing  ia 
its  belly,  eats  very  like  a  Hare,  to  the  nature  of  which  it  ap- 
proaches ;  it  is  nice  nonrisbing  food  when  young,  but  hard  and 
unwholesome  when  old.  For  Sauces,  (Nos.  398,  287,  and 
329). 

PheasantέΑΦ  (No.  68.) 

Requires  a  smart  fire,  but  not  a  fierce  one.  Thirty  minutes 
will  roast  a  young  bird ;  and  forty  or  fifty  a  full  grown  Phea- 
sant Pick  and  draw  it,  cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the  neck,  and 
take  out  the  craw,  but  don't  cut  the^ad  off;  wipe  the  inside 
of  the  bird  with  a  clean  cloth,  twist  the  legs  close  to  the  body, 
leave  the  feet  on,  but  cut  the  toes  ofi^,  donU  turn  the  head  under 
the  wing,  but  truss  it  like  a  fowl,  it  is  much  easier  to  carve : 
baste  it,  butter  and  froth  it^  and  prepare  eeuce  for  it,  (Nos.  321 
aad  329)  :  see  the  instructions  in  receipts  to  roast  fowls  and 
turkeys,  (No.  67  and  bS). 

Oha. έΑΦ ^We  believe  that  the  rarity  of  this  bird  is  its  best  recommen- 
dfttion  \  and  the  chat acter  giTen  it  by  an  tngenioas  French  author,  is 
just  as  good  as  it  deserves.     *<  Its  flesh  is  aaturaUy  tough,  aud  owes 


MM.**┬τ*┬τ>*aM 


*  lirer  Saaee,  (No,  se?  and  S88). 


KOASTlKa.  153 

all  its  tenderness  and  succulence  to  the  long  time  it  is  kept,  before  it 
is  cooked  ;  until  it  is  '<  bien  mortifiee"  it  is  uneatable.t  Therefore, 
instead  of  <<  sub  per  col/*  suspend  it  by  one  of  the  long  tail-feathers, 
and  the  Pheasant's  falliqg  from  it  is  the  criterion  of  its  ripeness  and 
readineas  for  the  spit. 

Our  iPresident  of  the  Committee  of  Takte,  (who  is  indefatigable  in 
his  endeavours  to  presenre  the  Health,  as  well  as  promote  the  Enjoy* 
ment  of  his  fellow  Students  in  the  school  of  good  Living,  and  to 
whom  the  Epicure,  the  Bconomist,  and  the  Valetudinarian,  are  equal- 
ly indebted  jfor  his  careful  reTision  of  this  work,  and  especially  for  in- 
troducing that  salutary  maxim  into  the  Kitchen έΑΦ that ''  the  Salubri- 
ous IB  ever  a  superior  consideration  to  the  Savoury,"  and  indeed, 
that  the  RaHonal  Epicure  only  relishes  the  latter,  when  entirely  sub- 
ordinate to  the  former,)  has  suggested  to  us,  that  the  detachment  of 
the  Feather  cannot  take  place  until  the  body  of  the  Bird  has  advanc- 
ed more  than  one  degree  beyond  the  state  of  wholesome  hmU'gMt 
and  become  **  trap  VMtiiJUt ;"  and  that  to  enjoy  this  Oame  in  perfec- 
izZt  JC;i  niyst  tor9  a  brace  of  birds,  killed  the.  lame  day ;  these  are 
to  be  put  m  suspense,  as  above  directed^-and  when  one  of  them  drspSy 
the  hour  is  com┬τ  that  the  spit  should  be  introduced  to  his  eon* 
panion  : έΑΦ 

'<  UHrA  eUr&gut  fuqtni  eomitUrt  re^tim." 

N.  B.  Sportsmen  will  find  the  following  rule  of  very  grea< 
edrantage  to  tberoselvee  and  their  Cooks,  to  order  their  game- 
keepers (and  observe  the  same  themselves)  to  cat  off  a  Claw  of 
each  Bird  they  kill, 

II  T    W        T   J  . 

desoting  the  day  of  the  week,  xfyxB^ 


1 


and  the  Cook  should  be  particular  in  keeping  each  week's 
killing  separate.  The  claws  should  not  be  cut  off  when  the 
Bird  is  dressed  for  Table,  as  they  serve  to  shew  the  Company 
when  it  was.  killed,  and  consequently  how  long  it  has  been 
kept. 

έΨι  ┬τi  !έΨιέΨιέΨι     έΨι.έΨιIllέΑΦ 1 II  I  I  I  I  έΨι  !έΨι  έΨι  I    I  I έΑΦ fcat┬τMέΑΦ ^^^έΑΦ έΑΦ ^έΑΦ έΑΦέΨιέΑΦ ^ 

X  ┬τ  They  are  only  fit  to  be  eaten  when  the  blood  roiu  from  the  Bill,  which  U  eom^ 
mcmly  aboot  0  or  7  days  after  tboy  hare  heen  killed ;  otherwiio  it  will  have  no  more 
lavoar  than  a  eommoa  fowl."έΑΦ t^<2rV  Cookery, 

**  Oaftranomert,  who  have  any  lort  of  aversion  to  a  fieeoliar  taste  in  Game  proper* 
ly  kept,  had  better  abiiain  from  this  bird,  nnce  it  H  wone  than  a  common  fowi,  if 
not  waited  for  till  it  acquires  thejitmet  it  ought  to  baTe.  Whole  republics  of  Bfae- 
gouhmwt  often  been  fbund  rioting  under  the  wings  of  Pheasants  ;  but  beisK  radical' 
ly  disp┬τ┬τed,  and  the  binds  property  washed  with  Vinegar,  every  thing  went  right, 
and  every  guest,  uneonseioos  of  the  culinary  ablutions,  vi\joyod  the  excellent  flAvour 
pf  the  Phasian  birds."έΑΦ TVide^a  CibarUtf  p.  5$, 


154  ROASTING. 

Mock  Pheasant,  (No.  69.) 

If  yoa  have  ooly  one  pbeasaDt,  and  wish  for  a  c^mpaDioD 
for  it,  get  a  fine  yooog  fowl,  of  as  near  as  may  be  the  same 
size  as  the  bird  to  be  matched,  and  make  game  of  it  by  truss- 
ing it  like  the  pheasant,  and  dressing  it  according  to  the  abore 
directions.  Few  persons  will  discover  the  pheasant  from  tbe 
fowl,  especially  if  the  latter  has  been  kept  four  or  five  days. 

The  peculiar  flavour  of  the  Pheasant  (like  that  of  other  game) 
is  principally  acquired  by  long  keeping. 

Guinea  and  Pea  Fowls έΑΦ       (Nob  69*.) 
Are  dressed  in  the  sanie  way  as  Pheasants. 

Partridges έΑΦ  (No.  70.) 

Are  cleaned  and  trussed  in  the  same  maaner  as  a  phea┬╗f>)) 
(but  the  ridiculous  custom  of  tucking  the  legs  into  each  other, 
makes  them  very  troublesome  to  carve) ;  the  breast  is  so  plump, 
it  will  require  almost  as  much  roasting ;  send  up  with  tbero  rioe 
sauce,  (No  321*,)  or  Bread  sauce  (No.  321,)  and  good  gravy, 
(No.  3290 

%*  tfyou  wish  to  preserve  them  longer  than  you  tAtai 
they  will  keep  good  unmessed,  half  roast  theniy  they  will  keep 
ttoo  or  three  days  longer ^  or  make  a  Pie  of  them. 

Black  Cock,  (No.  7 1 ,)  Moor  Game,  (No.  72,)  Grouse  (No.  73.) 
Are  all  to  be  dreased  like  partridges ;  the  Black  Cock  will 
take  as  much  time  as  tbe  pheasant,  and  Moor  game  and  Grouse, 
as  the  partridge.  Send  up  with  them  Curraat  jelly  and  fried 
Bread  crumbs,  (No.  320.) 

fVUd  Ducks.  (No.  74) 

For  roasting  a  Wild  Duck,  you  must  have  a  clear  brisk  fire* 
and  a  hot  spit ;  it  must  be  browned  on  the  outside,  without 
being  sodden  within.  To  have  it  well  frothed  and  full  of  gr>' 
vy,  is  the  nicety.  Prepare  the  fire,  by  stirring  and  raking  '* 
just  before  the  bird  is  laid  down,  and  fifteen  or  twenty  loioutes 
will  do  it  in  the  fashionable  way  ;  but  if  you  like  it  a  little  more 
done,  allow  it  a  few  minutes  longer :  if  it  is  too  much,  it  will 
lose  its  flavour. 

For  the  sauce,  see  (No  338,  and  No.  62.) 

Widgeons  and  Teal έΑΦ         -  (No.  75.) 

Are  dressed  exactly  as  the  wild  duck  ;  only  that  less  tiins  is 
requisite  for  a  Widgeon,  and  still  less  for  a  Teal. 


QOAStINO*  155 

Woodcocks.  (No.  76,) 

.  Woodcocks  should  not  be  drawn,  as  the  trail  is  by  the  lovers 
of  *'  hunU  goui^  considered  a  *'  Bonne  Bouche  ;'*  trass  their 
legs  close  to  the  body,  and  ran  an  iron  skewer  throngh  each 
thigh  close  to  the  body,  and  tie  them  on  a  small  bird  spit,  pat 
to  roast  at  a  clear  fire  ;  cut  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  you  have 
birds,  toast  or  fry  them  a  delicate  brown,  and  lay  them  in  the 
dripping  pan  under  the  birds,  to  catch  the  Trailf ;  baste  them 
with  butter,  and  froth  them  with  flour ;  lay  the  toast  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  the  birds  on  the  toast;  pour  some  good  beef  grary 
into  the  dish,  and  send  up  some  in  a  boat,  see  Obs.  to  (No.  $%9 :) 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes  will  roast  them.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

Obs. έΑΦ Sonie  Epicures  like  this  bird  Tery  much  underdone, 
and  direct,  that  a  Woocock  should  be  just  introduced  to  the 
Cook,  for  her  to  show  it  the  Fire,  and  then  send  it  up  to  the 
Table. 

Snipes^-^  (No.  77.) 

Difl&r  little  from  Woodcocks,  unless  in  size ;  they  are  to 
be  dressed  in  the  same  way,  but  require  about  five  minutes  less 
time  to  roast  them. 

For  Sauce,  see  No.  340. 

Pigeons.  (No.  78.) 

When  the  pigeons  are  ready  for  roasting,  if  you  are  desired 
to  stnff  them,  chop  some  green  parsley  very  fine,  the  liver,  and 
a  bit  oC  butter  together,  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  or  with 
the  stuffing  ordered  for  a  fillet  of  veal,  (No.  374,  or  No.  375,) 
and  fill  the  belly  of  each  bird  with  it.  They  will  be  enough 
in  about  twenty  or  thirty  minutes :  send  up  parsley  and  butter, 
(No.  261,)  in  the  dish  under  them,  and  some  in  a  boat,  and  gar- 
nish with  crisp  parsley,  (No.  318,)  or  Fried  Bread  Crumbs, 
(No.  320,)  or  Bread  Sauc^,  (321.)  or  Gravy,  (No.  329.) 

έΨι"       έΨι'έΨιέΨιέΨι'έΨιέΨι    έΨιέΨιέΨι'έΨιέΨιέΨι I  ...    .11  έΨι  έΨι         n.  έΨι        I     .  "έΨι    έΨι    έΨι  έΨι  έΨι 

t**ThM  iMtdhaiso  iminafit┬τd  itielf  ii^to  the  fsToar  of  reined  Gntrmandt,  that 
they  pay  it  die  same  honours  as  the  grund  liSnia,  making:  a  Ragout  of  its  Exere- 
nenu,  and  derourmgthem  with  ecstacy.**έΑΦ Fidle  Almanack  dea  Gmirmands^  rol.  1. 
page  #8. 

Tbar  exercise  produces  strength  and  fimineM  of  fibre,  is  excellently  well  exan- 
plified  in  the  H^oodcock  asd  the  Partrid/fC-^The  former  flies  mostέΑΦ the  latt^  walks 
έΑΦthe  wing  of  the  Woodcock  is  always  rery  toughέΑΦ K┬╗f  the  Partridge,  very  tender; 
hence  the  old  doggrel  distich-- 

έΑλ*  If  the  Partridge  had  but  the  WbedcockU  thigh, 
έΑλ*  He'd  be  the  beat  Bird  that  e'er  doth  fly." 
The  breast  of  all  Birds  is  themott  jntcy  and  nutrieioas  part. 


|5i0  &0ASTIK6. 

0&┬τ.*έΑΦ When  Pigeons  are  fmb^  they  have  their  fall  relish ; 
bat  It  goes  entirely  off  with  a  very  little  keeping,  nor  is  it  any 
way  so  well  preserved,  as  by  roasting  them έΑΦ when  they  afe 
pat  into  a  Pie┬╗  they  are  gieaerally  baked  to  rags^  and  taste 
more  of  pepper  and  salt  than  any  thing  else. 

A  little  ntelted  Butter  may  be  put  into  the  dish  with  them, 
and  the  gravy  that  raos  from  them  will  mix  with  it  into  fine 
sauce.  FiOEOHs  art  in  the  greatest  pevfeciion  from  Midstrni" 
mtr  to  Miohaebnaa^  there  is  then  the  most  plentiful  and  best 
food  for  them;  aod  their  finest  growth,  is  just  when  they  are 
full  feathered.  When  they  are  in  the  pen-feathers,  they  an 
fiabby4  when  they  are  full  grown,  and  have  flown  some  time, 
they  are  tough.  Uame  and  Poultry  are  the  best  when  iheyhaoe 
just  done  graunng^  i  e.  as  soon  as  nature  has  per^tad  het 
work. 

This  was  the  secret  of  Sohmonf  the  famous  Pigeon-feeder 
of  Turnham  Green,  who  is  celebrated  by  the  poet  Gay,  whsa 
he  says, 

έΨιέΨι  That  Tmnham  Green,  irhieh  dMoty  pifeaDt  fei, 
^  But  ftedt  BO  more,  for  S┬╗lom9n  is  dead.** 

Larks  and  other  small  Birds,  (No.  80.) 

These  delicate  little  birds  are  in  high  season  in  November. 
When  they  are  picked,  gutted  and  cleaned,  truss  them  ;  brush 
them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  ; 
spit  them  on  a  lark  spit,  and  tie  that  on  a  larger  spit,  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes  at  a  quick  fire  will  be  enough  ;  baste  them  with 
fresh  butter  while  they  are  roasting,  and  sprinkle  them  with 
bread  crumbs  till  they  are  well  covered  with  them. 

For  sauce  fry  some  grated  bread  in  clarified  butter,  (see  No. 
959.)  and  set  it  to  drain  before  the  fire,  that  it  may  harden : 
serve  the  crumbs  under  the  Larks  when  you  dish  them,  and  gar- 
nish them  with  slices  of  Lemon. 

fVheat  Ears--  (No.  d  1 .) 

Are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  Larks. 

Lobster.  (No.  82.) 

See  Receipt  for  boiling,  (No.  176.) 
We  give  no  Receipt  for  roasting  Lobster,  Tongue,  Sec,  be- 
ing of  opinion  with  Dr.  King*  who  says, 

**  By  RoM^Rff.  thftt  ^nliieb  fwr  fbiHktbert  Boiled, 
And  boiling  wbat  they  roasted,  mucli  u  qpoiled*'* 


THE 

COOK'S  ORACLE. 


FRYING. 

To  darifif  Drippmg$.  (No.  83.) 

Pot  your  dripping  into  a  clean  saucepan  ove/  a  glove  or  slow 
%S9  :  when  it  is  josi  going  to  boil,  skim  it  well,  let  it  boil,  and 
then  let  it  stand  till  it  is  a  little  cooled,  then  pour  it  through  a 
sieve  into  a  pan, 

P6<.έΑΦ Well   cleansed  Dnpptfigs*,    and   the    fat    Skim^ 

*  Mrs.  Mklbok,  in  her  Eeon&mieai  Cookery ^  page  7,  tells  lu,  the 
has  ascertained  from  actual  experiments,  that  **  the  Drtpptngt  of 
Roast  Meat,  combined  with  Wheat,  Flour,  Oatmeal,  Barley,  Pease,  or 
Potatoe  Starch,  w  ill  make  delicious  Soup,  agreeable  and  savourj  to 
the  Palate,  and  natritive  and  serviceable  to  the  Stomach,  and  that 
while  a  joint  is  roasting,  good  Soup  may  be  made  from  the  drippings 
of  the  Fat,  which  is  the  Euence  ofJIStaif  as  seeds  are  of  Vegetables, 
and  impregnates  Sovp  with  the  identical  iatte  of  Meat.'* 

**  Writers  on  Cookery  give  strict  directions  to  carefully  skim  off  the 
Faij  and  in  the  next  sentence  order  Butter  (a  much  more  expensive 
article)  to  be  added^ έΑΦ instead  of  this,  when  any  Fat  appears  at  the 
top  of  your  Soup  or  Stew,  do  not  <Atm  it  off,  but  unite  Jt  with  the 
broth  by  means  of  the  vegetable  mucilages.  Flour,  Oatmeal,  Ground 
Barley,  or  Potatoe  Starch  ;  when  suspended,  the  Soup  is  equally 
agreeable  to  the  palate,  and  nutritive  to  the  stomach,"  &c. 

"  Cooks  bestow  a  great  deid  of  pains  to  make  Gravies  ;  they  stew 
and  boil  lean  meat  for  hours,  and  after  all  their  Cookery  tastes  move 
of  Pepper  and  Salt  than  any  things  else.έΑΦ If  they  would  add  the  buUt 
of  a  chesnut  of  solid  Fat  to  a  common  siaed  sauce- boatftil  of  Gravy, 
It  will  give  it  more  sapidity  than  twenty-four  hotars  stewing  lean  meat 
would,  unless  a  larger  quantity  was  used  than  is  warranted  by  the 
rales  of  frugality."    See  (Nos.  205  and  220.) 

┬τ  Tb^  experiments  of  Dr.  Stark  on  th?  nourishing  powers  of  differ- 
ent  substances,  go  very  far  to  prove  that  three  ounces  of  the  Fat  of 
Boiled  Beef  are  equal  to  a  pound  of  the  Lean.  Dr.  Pagetf  the  travel- 
ler, confirms  this  opinion.    <  Being  obliged,*  says  he,  *  during  the  jour- 

14 


158  FRYING. 

mings*,  of  the  Broth  pot,  when  fresh  and  sweet,  will  baste  ev- 
ery thing  as  well  as  Butter,  except  game  and  poultry,  and 
should  supply  the  place  of  butter  for  com  moo  fries,  &c.  for 
which  they  ate  equal  to  lard,  especially  if  you  repeat  the  clari- 
fying twice  over. 

N.B.  If  you  keep  it  in  a  cool  place,  you  may  preserve  it  a 
fortnight  in  summer,  and  longer  in  winter.  When  you  have 
done  Frying,  let  the  dripping  stand  a  few  minutes  to  settle, 
and  then  pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  Basin  or  stone 
Pan  ;  and  it  will  do  a  second  and  a  third  time  as  well  as  it  did 
the  fir8t,-*~only  the  Fat  you  have  fried  Fish  la  must  not  be 
used  for  any  other  purpose. 

To  clarify  Sueif  to  fry  with.  .  (No.  84.} 

Cut  Beef  or  Mutton  suet  into  thin  slices,  pick  out  all  the 
veins  and  skins,  &c. ;  put  it  into  a  thick  and  well  tinned  sauce- 
pan┬τ  and  set  it  over  a  very  slow  s^eve,  or  in  an  oven,  till  it  is 
melted  :  you  must  not  hurry  it, έΑΦ if  not  done  very  slowly  it 
will  acquire  a  burnt  taste,  which  you  cannot  get  rid  of; έΑΦ tbea 
strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean  brown  pan.  Wkea 
quite  cold,  tie  a  paper  over  it  and  keep  it  for  use.  Hog*8-lard 
is  prepared  in  the  same  way, 

06s. έΑΦ The  waste  orcasioned  by  the  present  absurd  fashioQ 
of  over-feeding  cattle-^till  the  Fat  is  nearly  equal  to  the  Leao^ 
may,  by  good  management,  be  in  some  measure  prevented,έΑΦ- 
by  cutting  off  the  superfluous  part,  and  preparing  it  as  above, 
or  by  making  it  into  Puddings,  see  (Nos.  551  and  554,)  or 
Soup  (No.  239.) 


ney  from  North  to  South  America  by  land,  to  live  solely  on  Animal 
food,  I  experienced  the  truth  of  what  is  observed  by  Hunter┬╗,who  live 
solely  on  Animal  Food,  viz.  that  besides  their  receiving  little  nourish- 
ment from  the  leaner  parts  of  it,  it  soon  becouies  offensive  to  theXaste, 
whereas  the  Fat  is  both  more  nutritive,  and  continues  to  be  agreeable 
to  the  Palate.  To  many  stomachs  Fat  is  unpleasant  and  Indige^-^i- 
ble,  especially  when  converted  into  oil  by  heat :  this  may  be  easily 
prevented  by  the  simple  process  of  combining  the  Fat  completely  with 
water,  by  the  intervention  of  vegetable  mucilage,  as  in  melting  But- 
ter, by  means  of  flour,  the  Butter  and  water  are  united  into'a  homo-i 
geneous  fluid." έΑΦ From  Practical  Economy ,  by  a  Phyiician., 

*  See  ┬╗o%e  at  foot  of  (No,  201.) 


Sieaks,  (No.  85.) 

XuVii  the  steaks  rather  thinner  than  for  hroiWfig.  Pot  some 
iButter  or  (No.  83)  into  an  iron  fryingpan,  and  when  it  is  hot, 
lay  in  the  steaks,  and  keep  tarniog  them  till  they  are  done 
enough.  For  Sauce,  see  (No.  356),  and  for  the  aooonpaiM- 
ments,  (No.  94.) 

Obs, έΑΦ Unless  the  Fire  be  prepared  on  purpose,  we  like  this 
way  of  cooking  them  ;  the  gravy  is  preserved  ;  and  the  meat 
is  roore  equally  dressed,  and  more  evenly  browned  ;  which 
makes  it  more  relishing,  and  invites  the  eye  to  encourage  the 
Appetite. 

Beef  Steaks  and  Onions,  (No.  86.) 

See  also  (No.  501.) 

Fry  the  steaks  according  to  the  directions  given  in  ihe  pro- 
ceeding receipt  ;  and  have  ready  for  them  some  Onions,  pre┬τ 
pared  as  directed  in  (No.  299.) 

For  Stewed  Rump  Steaks,  nee  (Nos.  500  and  501.) 

Sausagbs,έΑΦ  (No.  87.) 

Are  best  when  quite  /res4  made. έΑΦ Put  a  bit  of  Butter,  or 
Diippiog  (No.  83)  into  a  ctean  Fryiag-Pan  ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
nelted  (before  it  gets  hot)  put  in  the  Sausages,  and  shake  the 
pao  for  a  minute,  and  keen  turning  them,  (be  careful  not  to 
break  or  prick  them  in  so  doing),  fry  them  over  a  very  slow 
fire,  till  they  are  nicely.hrowned  on  all  sides, έΑΦ when  they  are 
done,  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve,  placed  before  the  fire  for  a 
couple  of  minutes  to  drain  the  fat  from  them.  The  seciet  of 
fy^ng  Sausages,  is  to  let  them  gel  hot  very  gradually, έΑΦ they 
then  will  not  burst,  if  they  are  not  stale. 

The  common  practice  to  prevent  them  bursting,  is  to  prick 
them  with  a  fork,  but  this  lets  all  their  Gravy  out. 

You  m^y  froth  them  by  rubbing  them  with  cold  fresh  but- 
ter,έΑΦ and  lightly  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  put  them  in  a 
cheese  toaster  or  Dutch  oven  for  a  minute. 

Some  oveT'economical  Cooks,  insist  that  no  butter  or  lard, 
&c.  is  required  ;  their  own  fat  being  sufficient  to  fry  them  ; έΑΦ 
we  have  tried  ii, έΑΦ the  Sausages  were  partially  scorched,  and 
had  that  pye^bald  appearance,  that  fried  things  liave  when  suf- 
ficient fat  is  not  allowed. 


160  FRtlNG. 

Obs. έΑΦ ^Poached  Eggs  (548),  Pease  Pudding  (No.555),aod 
nasbed  Potatot'S  (No,  106),  are  agreeable  accoaxpaotmeati  to 
Sausages,  and  Sausages  are  as  wetoome  with  Boiled  or  Roasl- 
έΑλd  PovLTRT  or  Vbal  ;  so  are  ready  dressedGsRMAN  SAUSAosa 
or  BoiLBD  Taipb  (No.18);  See  Mem.  to  (No.13)  aod  a  coo* 
T^Dieot,  easily  digestible,  aod  invigorating  food  for  the  agsd, 
and  those  whoee  teeth  are  defective,  as  is  also  (No.  503,)  For 
Sauce  (No.  366),  to  make  Musurd  (Nos.  369  aod  70.) 

N.  B.  Pork  Sausages,  when  finely  chopped,  are  a  delicate 
** Bonne  Boucke  ;'*  and  require  very  little  assistance  froai  (be 
Teethy  to  render  them  quite  ready  for  the  Stomach. 

Sweetbreads  fidl  dressed.  (No.  88.) 

Parboil  them  and  let  them  get  cold,-έΑΦ then  cut  them  in 
pieces  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick, έΑΦ dip  them  in  the 
yolk  of  an  Egg,  than  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  [some  add  Spice, 
Lemon  peel,  and  Sweat  berba|| ;  put  soma  clean  dripping  (No. 
83)  into  a  fryiogpao  ;  ^hen  it  boils,  put  in  the  Sweetbreads, 
and  fry  them  a  fine  brown.  For  Garnish,  crisp  Parsley  ;  and 
for  Sauce,  Mushroom  catsup  and  melted  butter,  or  Anchovy 
sauce,  or  (No.  356,  No.  343,  or  343*),  or  Bacon  or  Ham 
as  (No.  526  and  No.  527.) 

Sweetbreads  plain.  (No.  89.) 

Parboil  and  slice  them  as  before,  dry  them  on  a  clean  dotb, 
έΑΦ flour  them  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown  ;  take  care  to  drain 
the  fat  well  from  them,  and  garnish  them  with  slices  of  Lemon, 
and  sprigs  of  chervil  or  Parsley,  or  crisp  Parsley  (No.  318.) 
For  sauce  (No.  356,  or  307),  aod  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon  as 
(No.  526  or  No.  627.) 

((nr  Take  care  to  have  a  Fresh  Sweetbread  ; έΑΦ it  spoils 
sooner  than  almost  any  thing,  therefore  should  be  parboiled  as 
soon  as  it  comes  in.  This  is  called  blanching  or  setting  it : 
Mutton  kidneys  (No.  95^  are  sometimes  broiled  and  sent  up 
with  Sweetbreads, 

Veal  CuUets,         (No.  90,  and  No.52 1 .) 

Let  your  cutlets  be  about  half  an  inch  thick,  trim  them,  and 
flatten  them  with  a  cleaver  ;  you  may  fry  them  in  frwh  butler. 


PRYIKG. 


161  ; 


good  drippiogB  (No.  83┬τ) ;  wheD  brown  on  one  side,  turn  them 
and  do  the  other  ;  if  the  fire  is  very  fierce,  tbev  roast  cfaenge 
sides  oftener.  The  time  they  will  take,  depends  on  the  thick- 
ness of  the  Collet  and  the  heat  of  the  fire : έΑΦ half  an  inch  thick 
will  take  about  fifteen  minutes.  Make  some  Gravt,  by  pat- 
ting the  trimmings  i^to  a  stewpan  with  a  little' soft  water,  an 
onioD^  a  roU  of  lemon  peel,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  sprig  of  thyme 
end  parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf;  stew  over  a  slow  fire  an  hour, 
then  strain  it ;  pot  an  oanee  of  butter  into  a  etewpan  ;  as  soon 
as  it  is  melted,  nhx  with  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up,  stir 
it  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minntes,  then  add  the  gravy  by  de- 
grees till  it  is  all  mixed,  boil  it  for  five  minutes,  and  strain  il 
through  a  tammis  sieve,  and  put  it  to  the  cutlets :  you  may  add 
some  Browning  (No.  32%}  Mushfoom  (No.  439,)  or  Walnut 
Cataup,  or  Lemon  Pickle,  &c.;  see  also  Sauces,  (No.  343 
and  No.  348┬τ) 

Cut  the  Veal  into  pieces  abont  as  big  as  a  crown  piece,  beat 
them  with  a  cleaver,  dip  them  in  egg  beat  up  with  a  little  salt, 
and  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs ;  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  boil- 
ing lard  ;  serve  under  them  some  good  Gravy  or  Mushroom 
Sauce,  (No,  307,)  which  may  be  made  in  five  minutes.  Gar- 
nish with  Slices  of  Ham  or  Bashers  of  Bacon,  (Nos.  5^6  and 
5^7,)  or  Pork  Sausages,  (No.  87.) 

Obs. έΑΦ Veal  fobcemeat  or  stuffinj?,  (Nos.  374  and  6,) 
Pork  Sausages  (No.  87,)  Rashera  of  Bacon  (Nos.  5W  and 
5^7,)  are  very  relishing  accompanimeots,  fried  and  sent  up  in 
hhe  form  of  Balls  or  Cakes,  and  laid  round  as  a  Qarnisb. 

Lamb  or  Mutton  CAopsέΑΦ  (No.  92.) 

Are  dressed  in  the  same  way,  and  garnished  with  crisp  par┬╗┬╗ 
hy  (No.  SlSj)  and  slices  of  letaon. 

If  they  are  bread -crumbed  and  covered  with  buttered  writing 
paper,  and  then  broiled,  they  are  ealled  **  Mmiiierum   Cut" 

PorkChopsr  (No.  93.) 

Cut  the  chops  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  Trim  them  neatfyj 
(few  Cooks  have  any  idea  how  mucb  credit  they  gci  by  tbis,> 
1^ 


162.  FRTINO* 

pot  a  fryiagpan  on  the  fire,  with  a  bit  of  butter ;  as  soon  as  it 
is  hot,  put  in  your  chops,  tu/niog  them  often  till  brown  8llo?er, 
they  will  be  enough  in  about  fifteen  minutes ;  take  one  upon  a 
plate  and  try  it ;  if  done,  season  it  with  a  little  finely  miaced 
onion,  powdered  Sage,  and  pepper  and  salt.  For  Gravy  catd 
Sauce,  see  (Nos.  500,  304,  341,  and  356.) 

06s. έΑΦ A  little  powdered  Ssge,  Sec,  Rtrewed  over  them,  wtli 
give  them  a  nice  relish,  or  the  Savoury  Powder  in  (No.  51,)  or 
Forcemeat  Sausages  like  (No.  378.) 

Do  not  have  them  cut  too  thick, έΑΦ about  three  Chops  to  sn 
inch  and  a  quarter,  trim  them  neatly,  beat  them  flat,  have  readf 
some  sweet  herbs,  or  Sage,  ah  onion  chopped  fine,  put  them  io 
a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  Butter  about  as  big  as  a  walnut, έΑΦ let 
them  have  one  fry,  beat  two  Eggs  on  a  plate  with  a  litttle  salt, 
add  to  them  the  herbs,  mix  it  all  well  together,  dip  the  chops 
in  one  tit  a  time  all  over,  and  then  with  bread -crumbs^  fry  them 
in  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  they  are  a  light  brown. 

O&s. έΑΦ Veal,  Lamb  or  Mutton  Chops,are  very  good  dressed 
in  like  manner. 

To  fry  Fish,  see  (No.  145.) 

N.  B.  To  Fry  Eggs  and  Omelettrs,  and  other  tWng┬τ, 
see  the  Index, 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 


BROILING. 

Chops  or  Steaks*.  (No.  04.) 

To  Stew  them,  see  (No.  500,)  ditto  with  Onions  (No.  501.) 
Those  who  are  nice  about  Steaks,  never  attempt  to  have 
thevny  except  in  weaiker  which  permits  the  meat  to  be  hung  tiU 
it  is  tender έΑΦ and  give  the  Butcher  some  dap  notice  of  their 
wish  for.  them. 

The  best  Steaks  are  those  cut  ffom  the  middle  of  a  Rurop, 
that  has  been  killed  at  least  four  days  in  moderate  weather,έΑΦ- 
mncb  longer  in  cold  weather-έΑΦ when  they  can  be  cut  about  six 
inches  long,  four  inches  wide,  and  half  an  inch  thick έΑΦ ^o  not 
beat  them,  unless  you  suspect  they  will  not  be  tender.  Desire 
the  Butcher  to  cut  them  of  even  thickness έΑΦ ^if  he  does  not, 
divide  the  thicker  from  the  thinner  pieces,  and  give  them  tim9 
accordingly. 

Take  care  to  have  a  very  clear  brisk  fire,  throw  a  little  salt 
on  it,  make  the  Gridiron  hot,  and  set  it  slanting,  to  prevent  the 
fat  from  dropping  into  the  lire,  and  making  a  smoke.  It  re- 
quires more  practice  and  care  than  is  generally  supposed  to  do 
Steaks  to  a  nicety  ;  and  for  want  of  these  little  attentions,  this 
very  common  dish,  which  every  body  is  supposed  capable  of 
dressing,  seldom  comes  to  the  table  in  perfection. 

*  The  season  for  these  is  from  the  29th  of  September  to  the  25th  of 
March  ;  to  ensure  their  being  tender  when  out  of  season,  stew  them 
as  in  Receipt  (No.  500.) 

TO  WARM   UP    COLD  RUMP   STEAKS. 

Lay  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  one  large  Onion  cut  in  quarters,  six 
berries  of  Allspice,  the  same  of  BInck  Pepper,  coTer  the  Steaks  with 
boiling  water,  let  them  stew  gently  one  hoar,  thicken  the  liquor  with 
flour  and  butter  rubbed  together  on  a  plate  ;  a  pint  of  Gravy,  about 
one  ounce  of  Flour  and  the  like  weight  of  Butter  will  do ;  put  it  into 
the  Stewpan,  shake  it  well  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  it  is 
ready  ;  lay  the  Steaks  and  Onion  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  Gravy 
through  a  sieve  over  them. 


1 64  BROILING* 

Ask  tbose  you  cook  for,  if  they  like  it  under  or  ikwomgU'^ 
done ;  and  what  accompaoimente  they  like  best;-^t  is  usual 
to  pot  a  tablespooaful  of  Catsup/ (No.  439)-^or  **  Balls*  Ga- 
vice/*  and  a  little  mioced  Shallot  or  (No.  40^)  into  a  dish  be- 
fore the  fire ;  while  you  are  broiling έΑΦ turn  the  Steak  &c.  with 
a  pair  of  Steak  tongs έΑΦ it  will  be  done  in  about  ten  or  fiftseo 
minutes ;  rub  a  bit  of  butter  over  it,  and  send  it  up  garoisbed 
with  PickJes  and  finely  scraped  Horseradish.  (Nos.  135,  278, 
299,  255, 402,  423, 430,  and  356)  are  the  Sauces  usually  cooh 
posed  for  C^ops  and  Steaks. 

N.  &  Macbbth's  Receipt  for  dressing  a  Beef  Sseak  is  the 
best έΑΦ 

-έΑΦ ^  when  HU  dMc,  **were  well 
έΑλ┬τ  Iftwere  dmtt  quickly.'* 


Mom. 

1814, 

esteemed  by  our  French  neighbours,  as  their   **  Ragouh  are   hy  έΓυa 

Cwuntiymen,  who 

**  pott  to  Pfcrh  goi 
έΨι*  Bfeiely  to  twte  their  Soops,  und  Mushroomi  knov." 

Kai);r*t  dM  ┬τ/  CέΑΦk^t  p>  Tt. 

These  liaes  were  written  before  the  establishment  of  AiBioff 
HovsB,  Aidersgate-Street,  where  every  Luxury  that  Platore  and  Art 
produce,  is  senred  in  the  primest  quality,  and  in  the  most  scientific 
manner έΑΦ ^in  a  style  of  princely  mag;nificence  and  perfect  comfortέΑΦ 
the  Wines,Liqueur8,  &c.  are  soperlativeέΑΦ and  every  department  of  the 
butinsss  of  the  banquet  is  conducted  in  the  most  liberal  manner. 

Tlie  French  author  whom  we  have  before  so  often  quoted,  assurei 
le┬τ  .^neUeurs  de  Bonne  Chert  on  the  other  side  of  the  Water,  it  is  wdl 
worth  their  while  to  cross  the  Channel  to  taste  this  favourite  Englisk 
dish,  which  when  "merft^'e  a  son  point"*  and  well  dressed,  be  says,  is 
superior  to  most  of  the  subtle  Relishes  of  the  Parisian  kitchea.*^' 
matiocA  det  Gourmands,  vol.  i.  p.  27. 

Beef  is  justly  accounted  the  most  nutritious  animal  Food έΑΦ theccle* 
brated  Trainers,  Shr  Thomas  Parkyns,  &c.  g^reatly  preferred  B┬╗r- 
KATBRS-*to5Asep-fit^ers^-as  they  called  those  who  ate  Mattoo. 
When  ffumpkries  the  pugilist  was  trained  by  Ripsham,  the  keeper  of 
Ipswich  Jail,  he  was  at  first  fed  on  Pee/,b>it  got  so  mocb  fleshέΑΦ it  ws^ 
changed  for  MiUtonr-^^oasted  or  6r┬╗tlefl[,'-when  boiltd^  great  partot 
the  nutritive  juices  of  the  meat  are  extracted. 

The  principles  upon  which  traiiiivo*  is  conducted,  resolve  them* 
selves  into  TsmperanK  without  absUmiousntss  and  Exerciu  witbsst 
fatigue. 


*  See  ┬τ  The   Art  of  iwrrooRATrwo  ahd  Baox^aeiffa  Lii ly'*^ 
by  tbe  Editor  of  ┬τ  Tb*  CooB^'a  Oracme." 


^ftOILINQ.  165 

Kidneys.  (No.  96.) 

Cat  them  through  the  long  way, έΑΦ score  them,  sphokle  ┬τ 
little  pepper  aod  salt  oo  tbem,  and  run  a  wire  skewer  through 
them,  to  keep  them  from  curling  on  the  Oridiroo έΑΦ so  that  they 
may  be  evenly  broiled. 

Broil  them  over  a  very  clear  fire,  turning  them  often  titt 
tbey  are  done  ;  they  will  take  about  ten  or  twelve  miouteSi  if 
the  fire  is  brisk  :  or  Fry  ihero  in  Butter,  and  naake  gravy  for 
them  in  the  pan  [after  you  have  taken  out  the  kidneys,]]  by  put- 
ting in  a  teaspooofol  of  flour  ;  as  soon  as  it  looks  brown,  put 
10  as  much  water  as  will  make  gravy  ;  they  will  take  five  mio┬τ 
tttes  more  to  fry  than  to  broiL  For  Sauce  (Nos.  318,  355, 
and  356.) 

Obs. έΑΦ Somo  Cooks  chop  a  few  Parsley  leaves  very  fioe, 
and  mil  tbem  with  a  bit  of  fresh  Butter  aod  a  little  Pepper 
έΑλad  SaltέΑΦ ftud  put  a  little  of  this  mixture  oo  each  Kidney. 

A  Fowl,  or  Rob&tl,  ^c.  (No.  07.) 

We  can  only  leoommeod  this  method  of  dr^ttisg,  when  the 
Fire  is  not  good  enough  for  roesting. 

Pick  and  truss  it  the  tame  as  for  boiling,  cut  it  opeo  down 
the  back,  wipe  the  inside  clean  with  a  clotb,  season  it  with  1; 
little  pepper  aod  salt,  have  a  clear  fire,  and  set  the  gridiron  at  a 
good  distance  over  it,  lay  the  chicken  on  with  the  inside  towards 
the  fire  ;*  (you  may  egg  it  and  strew  some  grated  bread  over 
it)  aod  broil  it  till  it  is  a  fine  brown έΑΦ take  care  the  fleshy  side 
is  not  burnt.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pickkd  Mushrooms,  or 
Mushroom  Sauce  (No.  305,)  thrown  over  it,  or  Parsley  and 
Butter  (No.  261,)  or  melted  Butter  flavoured  with  Mushroom 
Calsup  (No.  307.) 

Garnish  it  with  slices  of  Lemon,  and  the  Liver  and  Gizzard, 
slit  and  notched,  aud  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  broiled 
nicely  brown,  and  some  slices  of  lemon.  For  Grill  sauce,  see 
(No.  355.) 

N.  B.  *'  It  was  a  great  mode,  and  taken  up  by  the  court  party  in 
Oliver  Cromweirs  time,  to  roast  h<ttf  Capons έΑΦ pretending  they  had  a 
more  exquisite  taste  and  nutriment  than  when  dressed  whole." έΑΦ See 
Jo  AH  Cromwkll*s  KUchen^  London,  1664,  p&ge  39. 


*  Covered  with  a  plate  to  retain  the  heat  and  j uices^^έΑΦ w^mer.  Ed, 


1 66  BftOILING. 

Pigeons^  (No.  98.) 

To  be  worth  the  trouble  of  picking,  must  be  well  grown, 
and  well  fed. 

Clean  them  well,  and  pepper  and  salt  them  ;  broil  them 
over  a  clear  slow  fire  ;  turn  them  often,  and  put  a  little  bottef 
on  them  ;  when  they  are  done,  pour  over  them,  either  stewed 
(No.  305,)  or  pickled  Mushrooms,  or  Catsup  and  nielted  Bai- 
ter (No.  307)έΑΦ or  (Nos.  348  or  355). 

Garnish  with  fried  bread  Crumbs  or  Sippets  (No.  319;)  or, 
when  the  Pigeons  are  trussed  as  for  boiling,  flat  them  with  a 
cleaver,  taking  care  n6i  to  break  the  skin  of  the  backs,  or  breasts; 
season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  bit  of  butter,  and  a 
teaspoon  ful  of  water,  and  tie  them  close  at  both  ends  ;  so  when 
they  are  brought  to  table,  they  bring  their  Sauce  with  them. 
Egg  and  dredge  them  well  with  grated  bread  (mixed  i%ith 
Spice  and  Sweet  herbs  if  you  please,)  then  lay  them  on  the 
gridiron,  and  turn  them  frequently  :  if  yopr  fire  is  not  very 
clear,  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  well  buttered,  to  keep  them 
from  getung  smoked.     They  are  mach  better  broiled  whole. 

The  same  Sauce  as  io  the  preceding  receipt,  or  (Nos  343,  or 
34&) 

Vbal  Cutlets  (No.  531.)  and  (No,  91.) 

Pork  Ciiops  (No.  93.) 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 

VEGETABLES. 

Sixteen  ways  op  Dressing  Potatoes.* 

(No.  102.) 

The  Vegetable  Kiogdom  affords  no  Food  more  wboIeMine>. 
more  easily  procured,  easily  prepared,  or  less  expensive  than 
the  Potatoe  ;  yet  although  this  most  useful  vegetable  is  dressed 
almost  every  day,  in  almost  every  family^έΑΦ for  One  plate  of 
Potatoes  that  comes  to  table  as  it  should.  Ten  are  spoiled. 

Be  careful  in  your  choice  of  Potatoes ;  no  vegetable  varies 
so  much  in  colouc,  size,  shape,  consistence,  and  flavour. 

The  reddish  coloured  are  better  than  the  white,  but  the  yel- 
iowish  looking  ones  are  the  best.  Choose  these  of  a  moderate 
size,  free  from  blemishes,  and  fresh,  and  buy  them  in  the 
Mould ;  they  must  not  he  wetted  till  they  are  cleaned  to  he 
cooked.  Protect  them  from  the  Air  and  Frost έΑΦ by  laying  them 
in  heaps  in  a  cellar,  covering  them  vrith  mats,  or  burying  them 
io  sand  or  in  earth.  The  action  of  Frost έΑΦ is  most  destructive 
έΑΦ ^if  it  be  considerable,  the  life  of  the  vegetable  is  destroyed, 
and  the  Potatoe  speedily  rots. 

Wash  tbero,  but  do  not  pare  or  cut  them  unless  they  are 
very  large, έΑΦ fill  a  saucepan  half  full  of  Potatoes  of  equal  sf2f┬╗+ 
(or  make  them  so  by  dividing  the  larger  ones)  put  to  them  as 
much  rold  water  as  wiil  cover  them  about  an  iiurb  :  they  are 
sooner  boiled,  and  more  savoury  than  when  drowned  in  water 
έΑΦ  most  boiled  things  are  spoiled  by  having  too  little  water,  but 

***  Next  to  Bread  there  is  oo  vegetable  ftrtiele,  4he  preparatioD  of  which,  as  food, 
deserve*  to  be  more  auended  to,  than  the  Potatoe  '*->Sir  John  SmciairU  C┬╗de  qf 
Health,  vol.  i.  p,  354. 

**  By  the  Anatyait  ^Potatoe,  it  appears  that  16  ounces  contained  11  1.2  ounces  of 
waterέΑΦ and  the  4 1-2  ounces  of  solid  parts  remaining  afforded  scarce  a  drachm  of 
earth."έΑΦ l*<M-┬τienter**  Obs.  en  NtUritive  Vegetables.  8?o.  1783,  p.  la. 

t  Of  the  4maU  9fU4  will  be  done  to  pietes  before  the  large  met  are  boiled  enough. 


168  VSGETABLES. 

Potatoes  are  often  spoiled  by  too  much ;  tbf  y  must  merely  be 
cofered,  aod  a  little  allowed  for  waste  ia  boiling,  so  that  ibey 
έΨιlay  be  just  covered  at  the  fioisH. 

Set  them  on  a  moderate  fire  till  they  boil,  then  take  ibero  off, 
and  set  them  by  tbe  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly  till  tbey 
are  soft  eoougb  to  admit  a  fork, έΑΦ (place  no  dependeoce  oo  the 
usual  test  of  their  skin  crackiug,  which,  if  tbey  are  boiled  fast, 
will  happen  to  some  Potatoes  when  they  are  not  half  done,  aod 
the  ioside  is  quite  hard,)έΑΦ then  pour  the  water  off,  (if  you  let 
the  Potatoes  remain  in  the  water  a  moment  after  tbey  aredooe 
eoougb έΑΦ ^tfaey  will  become  waxy  and  watery,)  uncover  tbe 
saucepan,  and  set  it  at  such  a  distance  from  the  fire  as  will  se- 
cure it  from  bnrniog ;  their  superfluous  moisture  will  evaporate^ 
and  the  Potatoes  will  be  perfectly  dry  and  mealy. 

Too  may  afterwards  place  a  napkin,  folded  up  to  the  size  of 
the  saucepan*s  diameter,  over  the  Potatoes,  to  -keep  them  hot 
and  mealy  till  wanted. 

06s.┬τέΑΦ This  method  of  managing  Potatoes  is  in  every  respect 
equal  to  steaming  them ;  and  they  are  dressed  in  half  the  tine. 

There  is  such  an  infinite  variety  of  sorts  and  sizes  of  Pota- 
toes, that  it  is  impossible  to  say  how  long  tbey  will  take  do- 
ing ;  the  best  way  is  to  try  them  with  a  fork.  Moderate  sized 
Potatoes  will  generally  be  enough  in  fifteen  or  twenty  mioatss. 
See  068.  to  (No.  106.) 

CM  Pot$ioέΓυB  Fried.  (No.  103.*) 

Put  a  bit  of  dean  Dripping  into  a  frying-pan  ;  when  it  is 
melted,  slice  in  your  Potatoes  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  put 
them  on  the  fire,  keep  stirring  them ; έΑΦ when  tbey  are  quite  bot, 
they  are  ready. 

06s. έΑΦ Tbis  is  a  very  good  way  of  re-dressing  PotatoesέΑΦ or 
See  (No.  106.) 

Potatoes  hoUed  and  broiled,         (No.  103.) 

Dress  your  Potatoes  .as  before  directed,  and  put  them  ooa 
gridiron  over  a  very  clear  and  brisk  fire ;  turn  them  till  tbej 
are  brown  all  over,  and  send  them  up  dry,  with  melted  butter 
in  a  cup. 

Potatoes  fried  in  Slices  or  Shavings,      (No.  104.) 

Peel  large  Potatoes,  slice  tbem  about  a  quarter  of  ao  incb 
thick*  or  out  them  in  shavings  round  aud  round  as  you  would 


VEG┬μ1ABL┬μS.  169 

poel  a  lamoD.;  dry  them  well  ia  a  clean  c\oth┬╗  and  try  them  ia 
If^d  or  dripping.  Take  eare  thai  yoar  fat  ud  frying-pan  ana 
quite  clean ;  put  it  on  a  quick  fire,  watch  it,  and  as  soon  as  the 
lard  boils,  and  is  still,  put  in  the  slices  of4)otatoe,  and  keep 
moving  them  till  they  are  crisp ;  take  them  up  and  lay  them  to 
drain  on  a  sieve ;  send  them  up  with  a  very  little  salt  sprinkled 
orerthem. 

Potatoes  fried  whole.  (No.  105.) 

When  nearly  boiled  enough,  as  directed  in  (No  103.)  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  a-  bit  of  butter,  or  some  nice  clean 
beef  drippings ;  shake  them  about  often  (for  fear  of  burning 
them,)  till  they  are  brown  and  crisp  :  drain  them  from  the  fat. 

06s.┬τέΑΦ It  will  be  an  elegant  improvement  to  the  three  last  re- 
ceipts, previous  to  frying  or  broiling  the  Potatoes,  to  flour  them 
and  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  9ggy  and  then  roll  them  in  the 
fine  sifted  bread  crumbs;  they  will  then  deserve  to  be  called 

FOTATOBS  FULL  DRESSED. 

P^UUoe8  nutahei  (No.  106.)  See  dso  (No.  1 13.) 
When  your  Potatoes  are  thoroughly  boiled,  drain,  dry 
{ttck  out  every  speck,  &c.  and  while  hot,  rub  them  through 
a  cullender  into  a  clean  stewpan :  to  a  pound  of  Potatoes  put 
about  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  milk ;  do 
not  make  them  too  moist ;  mix  them  well  together. 

06┬τ.-*-^4/2┬τr  Ladv'dayy  when  the  potatoes  are  getting  old 
and  specky,  and  in  frosty  weather^  this  is  the  best  way  of  dres- 
^ng  them.  You  may  pul  them  into  shapes,  egg  them  with  yolk 
^f  Egg,  and  brown  them  very  slightly  before  a  slow  fire. 

Pokdoes  mashed  with  Owioru,         (No.  107.) 

Piepare  some  boiled  onions,  by  putting  them  through  a 
sieve,  and  mix  them  with  Potatoes.  In  proportioning  the  On- 
ions to  the  Potatoes,  you  will  foe  guided  by  your  wish  to  have 
more  or  less  of  their  flavour. 

0&s.┬τ*-'See  ncvie  under  (No.  555.) 

Potatoes  EscaUoped,  (No.  108.) 

Mash  Potatoes  as  directed  in  (No.  106)  ;  then  butter  some 
nice  clean  scollop  shells,  or  patty  patte,.  put  in  your  Potatoes, 
make  them  smooth  at  the  top,  cross  a  knife  over  them,  strew  a 
few  fine  bread  crumbs  on  them,  sprinkle  them  with  a  paste 
brush  with  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter,  and  then  set  them  in 
15 


1 70  VEOETABLBS. 

a  Dutch  oren  ;-έΑΦ when  tbey  are  browned  on  the  top,  take 
them  carefully  out  of  the  sbellg,  and  brown  t|w  other  side. 

Cohaniwn.  (No.  108*.) 


Boil  Potatoes  and, GreeoSy  or  SpinageέΑΦ separately έΑΦ Mash 
the  Potatoes έΑΦ squeeze  the  Greens  dry,  chop  them  quite  fine, 
and  mix  them  with  the  Potatoes  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
saltέΑΦ put  it  into  a  mould,  greasing  it  well  first ;  let  it  stand  in 
a  hot  o?en  for  ten  minutes. 

Poiatoei  Roaskd.  (No.  109.) 

Wash,  and  dry  your4)otatoes  (all  of  a  size,)  and  put  them  in 
a  tin  Dutch  oven,  or  cheese  toaster  ; έΑΦ take  care  not  to  put 
them  too  near  the  fire,  or  they  will^et  burnton  rthe  outside  be- 
fore they  are  warmed  through. 

Large  Potatoes  will  require  two  hours  to. roast  them. 

N.B.  To  save  time  and  troublei  some  cooks  half  boil  diem 
first. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  opportunities  the  Baker  'has  to  mni 
the  Cook.  , 

JPotaioes  Roasted  under  Meat.        (No.  1 10.) 

Half  boil  large  Potatoes,έΑΦ drain  the  water  from  them,  and 
put  them  into  an  earthen  dish,  or  smill  tin  pan,  under  Meat 
that  is  roasting)  and  baste  them  with  some  of  the  dripping ; έΑΦ 
when  they  are  browned  on  one  side,  turn  them  and  brown  the 
other, έΑΦ send  them  up  round  the  meat^  or  m  a  small  dish. 

Potatoe  BaUs.  (No.  111.) 

Mix  mashed  potatoes  with  the  yotk  of  an  egg,  roll  them 
into  balls,  flour  them,  or  egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  and  fry 
them  in  clean  drippings, έΑΦ or  brown 'them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

ft 

Potatoe  BaUs  Rago&tέΑΦ  (No.  Hi) 

Are  made  by  adding  to  a  pound  of  Potatoes  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  grated  ham,  or  some  sweet  herbs,  ┬τr  chopped  parsley, 
and  onion  or  shallot,  salt,  pepper,  anda  little  grated  nutmeg,  or 
other  spice,  with  the  yolk  of  a  couple  of  eggs ;  tbey  ere  then  to 
be  dressed  as  (No.  111.) 


VEGfiTABLSS.  '  17t 

06s;ir-<>Aii  agraeaUe  vegettble  ralishy  and  i  good  rapper 
dish. 

Potatoe  Snow.  (No,  114.) 

The  Potatoes  mast  be  free  from  spots,  and  the  whitest  yoa 
can  pick,  out ;  pot  them,  oo  in  cold  water;  when  they  begin  to 
cracky  strain  the  water  from  them,  and  put  them  into  a  clean 
stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  tilt  they  are  quite  dry  and  fall  to 
wieces ;  rub  them  through  a  wire  sieve  oo  the  dish  they  are  to 
be  sent  up  id,  and  do  not  disturb  them- afterwards. 

Potatoe  Pie.  (No.  115.) 

.  Peel  and  slice  your  Potatoes  very  thtOy  into  a  pie  dish  ;  be- 
tween each  layer  of  Potatoes  put  a  little  chopped  onion,  (three 
quarters  of  an  ounce  of  onion  is  sufficient  for  a  pound  of  Pota- 
toes) V  between  each  layer  sprinkle  a  littje  pepper  and  salt,  put 
in  a  little  water,  and  cut  about  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into 
HttJe  bits,  and  lay  them  on  the  top  ;  cover  it  close  with  puff 
paste.    It  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  to  bake  it. 

N.  B.  The  Yolks  of  four  Eggs  (boiled  hard)  may  be  added  ; 
and  when  baked,  a  tabjespoonful  of  good  Mushroom  Catsup 
poured  in  through  a  funnel. 

Obs. έΑΦ Cauliflowers  divided  into  mouthfuls,  and  Button  On- 
ions, seasoned  with  Curry  powder,  &c.  make  a  favourite  Veget- 
able Pie. 

New  Potatoes,  (No.  116.) 

The  best  way  to  clean  New  Potatoes,  is  to  rub  them  with 
coarse  cloth  or  a  flannel,  or  scrubbing-brush ;  and  proceed  as 
in  (No.  192.) 

N.  B.  New  Potatoes  are  poor,  watery,  and  insipid  till 
they  are  full  two  inches  diameter έΑΦ they  are  hardly  worth  the 
trouble  of  boiling  before  Midsummer  Day. 

Obs. έΑΦ Some  Cooks  prepare  Sauces  to  pour  over  Potatoes, 
made  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, έΑΦ or  gravy,  or  mehed  but- 
ter and  catsup, έΑΦ or  stew  the  Potatoes  in  ale,  or  water  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt; έΑΦ or  bake  them  with  herrings,  or  sprat?, 
mixed  wilh  layers  of  potatoes,  seasoned  with  pepper,  d^t,  sweet 
berbs^  vinegar  and  water ;  or  cut  mutton  or  beef  into  slices,  and 
Jay  them  in  a  stewpan,  and  OQ  them  potatoes  ancl'  spices,  then 


172  VEaSTABUCS* 

another  la5rer  of  the  meataUernatdy,  pouring  ie  a  IMe  water, 
covering  it  up  very  close,  and  stewing  siowly. 

Potatoe  Mucilage  (a  good  substitute  for  Arrow  Boot,) 
(No.  448.) 

Jerusalem  Artichokes  (No.  IIT.) 

Are  boiled  and  dressed  in  the  various  ways  we  have  just  be- 
fore directed  for  potatoes. 

N.  B.  They  should  be  covered  with  thick  melted  butter,  of  a 
nice  White  or  Brown  Sauce. 

Cabbage.  (No.  118.) 

'  Pick  Cabbages  very  clean,  and  wash  them  thoroughly,  then 
look  them  over  carefully  again ;  quarter  them  if  they  are  very 
large.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  Yf\ih  plenty  of  boiling  vtU'- 
ter  ;  if  any  sCum  rises,  take  it  off,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  salt 
into  the  saucepan,  and  boil  them  till  the  stalks  feel  tender.  A 
Young  Cabbage  will  take  about  twenty  minutes,  or  half  an 
hour έΑΦ when  Fidl  Gfrtnm,  near  an  hour ;  see  that  they  are  well 
covered  with  water  all  the  time,  and  that  no  smoke  or  dirt  arises 
from  stirring  the  fire.  With  careful  raansgement,  they  will 
look  as  beautiful  when  dressed,  as  they  did  wbea  growing. 

06s. έΑΦ Some  Cooks  say,  that  it  will  much  ameliorate  the 
flavour  of  strong  Old  Caibc^es  to  boil  them  in  two  waters  ; 
i.  e,  when  they  are  half  done,  to  take  them  out,  and  put  them 
directly  into  another  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  instead  of  con- 
tinuing them  in  the  water  into  which  they  were  first  put. 

BoUed  Cabbage  fried.  (No.  110.) 

See  receipt  for  Bubble  and  Squeak. 

Savoys  (No.  120.) 

Are  boiled  in  the  same  manner ;  quarter  them  when  you 
send  them  to  table. 

Sprouts  and  Young  Greens.        (No.  121.) 

The  Receipt  we  have  written  for  Cabbages  will  answer  as 
well  for  Sprouts,  only  they  will  be  boiled  enou^  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes. 

Spinage,  (No.  122.) 

SpinagS  shoiild  be  picked  a  leaf  at  a  time,  and  washed  in 
three  or  four  waters ;  when  perfectly  clean,  h^  it  on  a  sieve  or 
cullender,  to  drain  the  water  from  it. 


VEGETABIiXS.  173 

Put  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  three  parts  fiUed  vrkh  water,  aod 
large  enough  for  the  Spioage  to  float  in  it ;  pat  a  small  hand- 
ful of  salt  ia  it,  let  it  boil,  ^im  it,  aod  then  put  in  the  Spinaga, 
make  it  boil  as  quick  as  possible  till  quite  tender,  prnsiDg  the 
Spinage  down  frequently  that  it  may  be  done  equally  ;  it  will 
be  enough  in  about  ten  minutes,  if  boiled  in  plenty  of  water  ; 
if  the  Spinage  is  a  little  old,  gtre  it  a  few  minutes  longer. 
When  done,  strain  it  on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  sque^e  it  dry  with 
a  plate,  or  between  two  trenchers,  chop  it  fine,  and  put  it  into 
a  stewpan^with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  a  little  cream  is 
a  great  improreroent,  or,  instead  of  either,  some  rich  Gravy. 
Spread  it  in  a  dish,  and  score  it  into  squares  of  proper  size  to 
belp  at  table. 

0&8. έΑΦ Grated  nutmeg,  or  mace,  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  is  a 
favourite  addition  with  some  cooks,  and  is  added  when  you . 
stir  it  up  in  the  stewpan  with  the  butter  garnished.     Spinage  is- 
frequently  served  with  Poached  Eggs  with  fried  bread. 

AspaaraguB^  (No.  133.) 

Set  a  stewpan  with  plenty  of  water  in  it  on  the^re ;  sprinkle 
a  handful  of  salt'init,  let  it  boil,  and  skim  it :  then  put  in  your 
Asparagus,  prepared  thus  :┬τ-^rape  all  the  stalks  till  they  are 
perfectly  clean,  throw  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  as  you 
scrape  them  ;  when  they  are  all  done,  tie  them  up  in  little  bun- 
dles, of  about  a  quarter  hundred  each,  with  bass,  if  you  can 
get  it,  or  tape  ;  string  cuts  them  to  pieces  :  cut  off  the  stalks  at 
the  bottom,  that  they  may  be  all  of  a  length,  leaving  only  just- 
enough  to  serve  as  ahandle  for  to  green  part ;  when  they  aro 
tender  at  the  stalk,  whicb  wiUboin  from  twenty  to  thirty- min- 
utes, tbey  are  done  enoughs  Qreat  earn  must  be  taken  to 
watch  the  exact  time  of  their  becoming  tender  ;  take  them  up 
jast  at  that  instant,  and  they  will  have  their  true  flavoul%nd 
colour  ; έΑΦ a  minute  or  two  more  boiling  destroys  both. 

While  the  Asparagus  is  boiling,  t^as^a  round  of  a  quartern 
loaf,  about  half  an  inch  thick,  brown  it  delicately  on  both  sides, 
dip  it  lightly. in  the  liquor  the  Asparagus  was  boiled  in,  and  lay 
it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish  ;  melt  some  butter  (No.  356),  then 
jay  in  the  Asparagus  upon  the  Toas<,which  must  project  beyond 
the  Asparagusi  tl^t  the  company  may  see  there  is  a  Toast. 

Poor  BO  butter  over  them,  but  send  some  ud  in  a  boat,  or 
White  Sauee  (Ne.  364^  No.  2.) 
15* 


1 74  VEGETABLES. 


8ea  JTfl/tfέΑΦ  (No.  124.) 

Is  tied  up  in  bundles,  and  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  hs^ 
paragus. 

Cauliflower.  .  (No.  125.) 

Cboose  those  that  are  close  and  white,  and  of  the  middle 
size,  trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  cot  the  stalk  off  flat  at  the  bot┬τ 
torn,  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  before  you  boil 
them. 

Put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it,  skim 
it  well,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done,  which  a  small  one  will 
be  10  fifteen,  a  large  one  in  about  twenty  minutes,  take  it  up 
the  moment  it  is  enough^  a  minute  or  two  longer  boiling  will 
spoil  it. 

N,  B.  Cold  Cauliflowers^  and  French  Beans^  Carrots  and 
TumipSf  boiled  so  as  to  eat  rather  crisp, are  sometimes  dressed 
as  a  Sdtad  (No.  372  or  453.) 

Brocoli.  (No.  126,) 

Set  a  pan  έΑλf  dean  cold  water  on  the  table,-r*and  a  saucepaD 
on  the  fire  with  plenty  of  water,  and  a  haodfuiof  salt  in  it. 

Brocoli  is  prepared  by  stripping  off  all  the  side  shoots,  leav- 
ing the  top  ;  peel  off  the  skin  of  the  stalk  with  a  knife,  eut  it 
close  off  at  the  bottom,  and  put  into  the  pan  of  cold  water. 

When  the  water  in  the  stewpan  boils,  and  the  Brocoli  is 
ready,  put  it  in,  let  it  boil  briskly  till  the  stalks  feel  tender,  from 
ten  to  twenty  minutes  ;┬τέΑΦ 4akf  it  up  with  a  slice,  that  you  may 
not  break  it  ;έΑλέΑΦ let  it  drain  aiid  aerre  up. 

If  some  of  the  beads  of  Brocoli  are  much  bigger  than  t!ie 
others,  pot  them  on  to  boil  first,  so  that  they  may  get  all  done^ 
together. 

Qbs, έΑΦ It  make  a  nice  supper  dish  served  upon  a  toast,  like 
Asparagus.  It  is  a  very  delicate  vegetable,  and  you  must  take 
it  up  the  momf  nt  it  is  done,  and  send  it  to  the  table  hot 

Red  Beet  Boots^  (No.  127.) 

Are  not  so  much  used  as  they  deserve  ;  they  are  dressed  in 
the  same  way  as  Parsnips,  only  neither  scraped  nor  cot  till  af- 
ter they  are  boiled  :  they  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to 
three  hours  in  boiling,  according  to  their  size, έΑΦ to  be  sent  to 
table  with  Salt  Fish,  Boiled  Beef,  &c.     When  young,  large. 


VB6ETABLES*  1 7$ 

and  juicy,  it  is  a  very  good  έΨ╝eriety,-^aii  excellent  gamiebyέΑΦ - 
and  easily  converted  into  a  very  cheap  aad  pleasant  pickW. 

Parsnips  (No.  148.) 

Are  to  be  cooked  just  in  the  same  maooer  as  Carrots ; 
they  require  more  or  less  time  according  to  their  size,  therefore 
match  them  in  size,  and  you  most  try  them,  by  thrusting  ┬╗  fork 
into  them  as  they  are  in  the  water ;  when  that  goes  easily 
througb,they  are  done  enough :  boil  them  from  an  hour  to  two 
hours,  according  to  their  size  and  freshness. 

06s. έΑΦ Parsnips  are  sometimes  sent  op  mashed  in  the  same 
way  as  Turnips,  and  some  cooks  quarter  them  before  they  boil 
them. 

Carrots.  (No.  139.) 

Let  them  be,  well  washed  and  brushed,  not  scraped  ;  an  hour 
is  enough  for  young  spring  carrots ;  grown  carrots  most  be  cut 
in  haif,  and  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  and 
a  half.  When  done,  rub  off  the  peels  with  a  clean  coarse  cloth, 
and  slice  them  in  two  or  four,  according  to  their  size.  The 
best  way  to  try  if  they  are  done  enough,  is  to  pierce  them  with 
a  fork. 

Obs, έΑΦ Many  people  are  fond  of  cold  Carrot  with  cold  Beef. 

Turnips.  (No.  130.) 

Peel  off  half  an  inch  of  the  stringy  outside  ;  full  grown 
turnips  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  gentle  boiling ;  if  you 
slice  them,  which  most  people  do,  they  will  be  done  sooner ; 
try  them  with  a  fork έΑΦ when  tender,.take  them  Up,  and  lay  them 
on  a  sieve  till  the  water  is  thoroughly  drained  from  them :  send 
them  up  whole ;  do  not  slice  them. 

N.  B.  To  very  young  Turnips  leave  about  two  inches  of 
the  Green  top.     See  (No.  132.) 

To  Mash  Turnips.  (No.  131.) 

-  When  they  are  boiled  quite  tender,  squeeze  them  as  dry  as 
possible  between  two  trenchers,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  mash 
them  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  rub  them  through  a  cullender, 
add  a  little  bit  of  butter,  keep  Stirling  them  till  the  butter  is 
melted  and  well  mixed  with  them^  and  tfaiey  aie  ready  for  table. 


176  VSGETABLSS. 

Turmp  T9p┬╗f  (No.  13%) 

Afe  the  shoots  wbiob  grow  out  (in  thespnog^  of  the  old' 
tarnip  roots.  Fat  them  into  cold  water  an  hoar  before  they 
are  dressed ;  the  more  water  they  are  boiled  io  the  better  they 
will  look  ;*-if  boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  water^  they  will 
taste  Utter ;έΑΦ when  the  water  boils,  pat  in  a  small  handful  of 
salt,  and  then  your  vegetables;  if  fresh  and  yoang,  they  will 
be  done  in  about  twenty  minates;  drain  them  on  the  back  of 
a  siefA 

French  Beam^  (No.  133.) 

Cot  off  the  stalk  end  first,  and  then  turn  to  the  point  and 
strip  off  the  strings : έΑΦ Ifiwt  quite  freshi  have  a  bowl  of  spring 
water,  with  a  little  salt  dissolved  in  it,  standing  before  you,  and 
as  the  beans  are  cleaned  and  stringed,  throw  them  in: έΑΦ when 
all  are  done^.put  them  on  the  fire,  in  boiling  water,  with  some 
salt  in  it ;  when  ibey  have  boiled  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
take  one  out  and  taste  it ;  as  soon  as  they  are  tender,  take  them 
up,  throw  them  into  a  cullender  or  sieve  to  drain..  To  send 
up  the  beans  whole  is  much  the  best  method  when  they.are  thus 
young,  aud  their  delicate  flavour  and  colour  are  orach  better 
preserved.  When  a  little  more  grown,  they  must  be  cut  across 
m  two,  after  stringing _;  and  for  common  tables,  they  are  split, 
and  divided  across ;  but  those  whaare  nice,  never  have  them 
at  such  a  growth  as  to  require  splitting.  When  they  are  large, ' 
they  look  very  pretty  cut  into  Lozenges. 

06s.έΑΦ See  N.  B.  to  (No.  I┬τi5.) 

Green  Ptase.^  (No.  134) 

Young  Green  Pease,  well  dressed,  are  one  of  the  most  deli- 
cious delicades  of  the  vegetable  kingdom.  They  must  be 
young  ;  it  is  equally  indispensable  that  they  be  fresh  gathered^ 
and  cooked  as  soon  as  they  are  sheUed^  for  they  soon  lose  both 
their  colour  and  sweetness. 

If  you  wish  to  feast  upon  Pease  in  perfection,  you  must 
have  them  gathered  the  same  day  they  are  dressed,  and  put  on 
to  boil  within  half  an  hour  after  they  are  shelled. 


*  These  and  nil  other  fraiu  and-rexeublef,  See.  by  Mr.  Appert*t  plan*  it  it  caid, 
nay  be  preserved  in  f aU  flavour  Ibr  twelve  nuHDthi.'^See  Appert's  Book,  ISmo.  2812. . 
We  have  eaten  of  sevetal  speeimens  of  prcsetrcd   Fewcr*wJUCll  loohed  prettr 
┬τnoQgh┬╗έΑΦ but  Jllotrffttr  they  hiid  none  at  ulU  r  t  . ┬τ 


VEOETABLESU  1 77 

Pass  them  ftrougfa  a  nddie^  t.  e.  acoaTBesiofe^wbich  is 
mada  (or  tha  purposa  of  saparattog^  tham.  This  precaution  i& 
neoeasary,  for  large  and  snail  paasa  caiwot  be  boiled  toeether, 
as  the  former  will  take  more  time  than  the  latter. 

For  a  peck  of  pease,  set  on  a  saacepan  with  a  gallon  of  wa┬τ 
tέΓυNr  in  it;  when  it  boils,  put  in  your  pease  with  a  tablespoon* 
ful  of  salt,-*skim  it  well,  keep  them  boiling  quick  from  twenty 
to  thirty,  minutes,  according  to  their  age  and  size :  the  best  way 
to  judge  of  their  being  done  enough,  and  indeed  the  only  way 
to  make  sure  of  cooking  them  to,,  and  not  beyond  the  point  of 
perfection,  or  as  Pea-eaters  say,  of  '*  boiling  them  to  a  hvbhle^^ 
is  to  take  some  out  with  a  spoon  and  taste  them. 

When  they  are  enough,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve.  If  you- 
like  them  buttered,  put  them  into  a  pie  dish,  divide  some  butter 
ifito  small  bits,  and  lay  them  on  the  pease ;  put  another  dish 
over  them,  and  tunor  diam  ofer  and  over ;  this  will  melt  the  but- 
ter dirough  them,  but  as  all  people  do  not  like  buttered  pease, 
yoa  had  better  send  them  to  table  plain,  as  they  come  out  of 
the  Saucepan,  with  melted  butter  (No.  256,)  in  a  sauce  tureen* 
It  is  usual  to  boil  soma  Mint  with  the  Pease,  but  if  you  wish  to 
garnish  the  Pease  with  Mint,  boil  a  few  sprigs  in  a  saucepan  by 
themselves.  See  Sage  and  Onion  Sauce,  (No.  300,)  and  Pea 
Powder,  (No.  458.)  To  boil  Bacon,  (No.  13,)  Indices  of  Earn 
and  Bacon,  (No.  626,)  Aud  Relishing  Rashers  of  Bacon,  (No. 
527.) 

N.  B.  A  Peck  of  young  Pease  will  not  yield  more  than 
enough  for  a  couple  of  hearty  Pea-Eaters, έΑΦ >when  the  pods  are 
f ull^  it  may  serve  fpr  three. 

Mem.έΑΦ Never  think  of  purchasing  Pease  rMdy'sheUed,  for- 
the  cogent  reasons  assigned  io  the  first  part  of  this  Receipt* 
9^See  Appendix. 

Cucumber  Stewed.  (No.  1 35.) 

Peel  and  cut  Cucumbers  in  quarters,  take  out  the  seeds,  and 
lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain  off  the  water  :  whan  they  are  dry, 
flour  and  fry  them  in  fresh  butter ;  let  the  butter  be  quite  hot 
before  you  put  in  the  cucumbers ;  fry  them  till  they  are  brown, 
then  take  them  out  with  an  egg  slice,  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to 
drain  the  fat  from  them  :  (some  Cooks  fry  sliced  Onions  or 
some  small  Button  Onions  with  them  till  they  are  a  delicate 
light  brown  colour,  drain  them  from  the  fat,  and)  tt^n  put 


178  VKGETABLK5. 

fhrna  into  a  stewpan,  with  as  much  Gra? y  as  will  cover  diein  ; 
stow  slowly  till  they  are  tender ;  take  oat  the  cucnmbers  with 
a  slice,  thicken  tie  gravy  with  flour  and  batter,  give  it  a  boil  ap, 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pat  in  the  Cacumben  ;  as 
soon  as  they  are  warm,  they  are  ready* 

.  The  above  rubbed  through  a  Tammis  or  fine  sieve,  will  be 
entitled  to  be  called  ''  Cuoumbbr  Savob.''  See  (No.  3M,) 
Cucumber  Vinegar*  This  is  a  very  favourite  sauce  with  lamb 
or  mutton  cutlets,  stewed  rump  steaks,  &c.  &c. ;  when  made 
for  the  latter,  a  third  part  of  sliced  onioa  is  sometimes  fried 
with  the  cucumber. 

Soak  them  in  cold  waterywash-  them  well,  then  pot  them  into 
plenty  of  boiling  water^.  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  let  them 
boil  gently  till  they  are  tender,-  which  will  take  en  hour  and  a 
half,  or  two  hours ;  the  surest  wsy  to  know  when  they  are 
done  enough,  is  to  draw  out  a  leaf;  trim  them  and  drain  them 
on  a  sieTe ;  and  send  up  mehed  butter  with  them,  which  some 
put  into  small  cups>  so  that  each  guest  may  have  oneu. 

Stewid  Onions,  (No,  137.) 

The  large  Portugal  Ooioos  are  the  best ;  take  off  the  top* 
coats  of  half  a  dozen  of  these,  (taking  care  not  to  cut  off  the 
tops  or  tails  too  near,  or  the  onions  will  go  to  pieces)  ;  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  broad  enough  to  hold  them  without  laying 
them  a  top  of  one  another,  and  just  cover  them  with  good  broth* 

Put  thera  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  about  two 
hours ;  when  you  dish  them,  turn  them  upside  down^  and  pour 
the  sauce  over. 

Young  Onions  stewed^  see  (No.  296.) 

Salads-^    (No.  1 38*,)  also  (No.  37^.) 
Those  who  desire  to  see  this  subject  elaborately  illustrated, 
we  refer  to  "  Evtltn's  Acttaria^  a  discourse  of  filets,  a 
13mo.  of  340  pages.    London,  1699.t 


i  Mr.  E.  gives  ui  "  an  account  of  uvtrUy-heo  heibs  proper  and  fit  to 
make  Sallet  with/'έΑΦ ┬τnd  a  table  of  Thirtyf  Five^  telling  their  fee- 
sons  and  proportions.  "  In  the  composure  of  a  Sallet,  every  plant 
should  come  in  to  bear  its  part,  like  the  notes  in  Moajbc :  thus  the  cosh 
ical  Master  Cook  introduced  bv  Damoxenm,  when  a^ed  'whiU 
ifarmony  then  was  in  Meats  .^'έΑΦ me  very  same,' .  says  he,  <  as  the  3d, 


VBQETABLE┬μ. 


179 


5th|  and  8tli  have  to  one  another  in  mosicέΑΦ the  mua  skill  lies  in  thit, 
not  to  mingle  (^aaporu  mtnwfe  nmienften^ef*)έΑΦ *  Teitcs  not  well 
joined έΑΦ ^ineleganV  a*  our  Pantdman  Bard  directs  Evt  when  drewinf 
a  sallet  for  her  Mgelieal  Gnest.'  " έΑΦ Milton**  Paraditc  Lnt, 
He  giTes  the  following  receipt  for  the  Oxolxoh  :-^ 

"Take   of  clear  and  perfectly  good   Oyl-Olive  three  part┬╗-H>f 

sharpest  Ftn^or,  (tweetett  of  all  Condtmen/*,  for  it  incites  appetite, 

and  caoses  Hunger,   which  is  the  host  sauce,)  Lemon^or  juice  of 

Orange,  one  part έΑΦ and  therein  let  steep  some  slices  of  Hontraduh^ 

with  a  little  SaU :  some,  in  a  ┬τeparate  Vinegar,  gratly  hmise  a  pod 

έΨιof 'Omny  Pepper,  and  strain  it  to  the  other έΑΦ then  add  as  much  Mum^ 

^ard  as  will  lie  upon  a  half-crown  piece.    Beat  and  mingle  these  well 

together  with  the  yolk  of  two-new-taid  Eggn  boiled  hard,  and  pour  it 

orer  your  Sallet,  stirring  it  well  together.    The  jupsr-curious  insist 

that  the  knife  with  which  SaUet  herb  is  cut  must  be  of  SilyerέΑΦ and 

some  who  are  husbands  of  their  Oyl  pour  at  first  the  Oy\  alone,  as 

more  apt  to  conununicate  and  diiliise  its  sUpperineM,  than  when  it  is 

mingled  and  beaten  with  the  Acids έΑΦ ^which  ihtj  pour  on  last  of  all ; 

and  It  is  iucredible  how  small  a  quantity  of  Oylthus  applied  is  suiB- 

cient  to  inkbue  a  very  -plentiful  assembly  of  Sallet  Herbs." , 

Obs. έΑΦ Oar  own  Directioos  to  prepare  aad  drass  SalUds  will 
he  found  under  (No*  S72.)   . 


\ 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 

FISH. 

TurhU  to  BoU.  (No.  140.) 

TbiB^zcellfiot  Fishis  inseafion  dit  graatest  part  of  the  Sjiio- 
mer^-έΑΦ wban  ^j^oad*  it  is  at  odoo  finn  and  tender^  md  alnmods 
ifrith  rich  felatinoas  nutrimeat. 

Being  *drawD,  and  washed  clean,  if  it  be  quite  iiresb,  by  rob- 
bing it  lightly  with  salty  and  keeping  it  in  a  cold  place,  you  may 
in  moderate  weather  preserve  it  for  a  couple  of  days.* 

An  Hour  or  two  before  you  dress  itf  soak  it  in  spring  watflc 
l?ith  some  salt  in  it, έΑΦ then  score  the  skin  across  &  tiricfcest 
part  of  the  back ;  (this  is  to  pre?ent  it  breaking  on  the  Breast, 
which  will  happen  from  the  fish  swelling,  and  cracking  the  skin, 
if  this  precaatioo  be  not  used.)  Put  a  large  handful  of  Salt 
into  a  fish  kettle  with  cold  water,  lay  your  &h  on  a  fish  straiii- 
er,  put  it  in,  and  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  ekim  it  well; 
then  set  the  kettle  on  the  side  of  the  fire,  1o  boil  as  grady  as 
possible  for  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  if  it  boils  hstf 
the  fish  will  break  to  pieces ;  supposing  it  a  middling  sise  Tar- 
bot,  and  to  weigh  eight  or  nine  jx>unds. 

Rub  a  little  of  the  inside  Red  Cora)  spawn**  of  the  Lobster 
through  a  hair  sieve,  without  butter ;  and  when  the  Turbot  is 
dished,  sprinkle  the  spawn  over  it.  Garnish  the  dish  with 
sprigs  of  curled  Parsley,  sliced  Lemon,  and  finely  scraped 
Horaeradisb. 

If  you  like  to  send  it  to  table  in  Full  Dress,  surround  it  with 
nicely  fried  Smelts  (No.  173,)  laying  the  largest  opposite  the 
broadest  part  of  the  Turbot,  so  that  they  may  form  a  well  pro*- 

έΨι-  -       L  T έΨι έΨι έΑΦ έΑΦ "^  έΑΦ -I    -     r  ,  I       έΨι     .11  I 

*"  I  have  ascertained  bj  many  years' observation,  that  a  Turbot 
kept  two  or  thre*  days  is  much  better  eating  than  a  very  fresh  one." 
έΑΦ ^┬╗e's  Coifkeri/,  p.  238. 


FISH.  181 

portioned  fringe  for  it, έΑΦ or  Oysters  (No.  183*),  or  cut  a 
Sole  in  strips,  crobsways,  about  the  size  of  a  smelt ;  fry  them  ┬τέΑλ  di- 
rected in  (No.  145;)  amd  lay  them  roand.  Seod  up  Lobster  sauce 
(No.  284)  two  boats  of  it,  if  it  is  for  a  Jarge  party. 

N.  B.  Cold  Turbot  with  (No.  372)  for  SauceέΑΦ or  take  off 
tbe  Fillets  that  are  left,  as  soon  as  the  Tiirbot  returns  from 
Table έΑΦ and  they  will  make  a  side  dish-for  your  next  dinner, 
warmed  in  (No.  364,)  (No.  2). 

Obs. έΑΦ The  thickest  part  is  the  favourite,  and  the  Carver  of 
this  Fish  roust  remember  to  ask  his  friends  if  they  are  Fin- 
Fanciers,  It  will  save  a  troublesome  Job  to  the  Carver,  if  the 
Cook,  when  the  Fish  is  boiled,  cuts  the  spine-bone  across  the 
middle. 

A  BnM  (No.  143.) 

Is  dressed  the  same  way  as  a  Turbot. 

ISoles  to  Boil.  (No.  144.) 

A  fine  fresh  thick  Sole,  is  almost  as  good  eating  as  a  Tur- 
bot. Wash  and  clean  it  nicely  ;  put  it  into  a  fish-kettle  with  a 
handful  of  salt,  and  as  much  cold  water  as  will  cover  it ;  set  it 
on  the  side  of  the  fire,  t^ke  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  let  it 
boil  gently ; έΑΦ about  five  minutes  (according  to  its  size)  will  be 
long  enough,  unless  it  be  very  large.  Send  it  up  on  a  fish 
drainer  garnished  with  slices  pf  Lemons  and  sprigs  of  curled 
Par8ley,or  nicely  fried  Smelts  (No.  173,)  or  Oysters  (No.l83). 

Obs, έΑΦ Slices  of  Lemon  are  a  universally  acceptable  garnish. 
"With  either  fried  or  broiled  fish  ; έΑΦ a  few  Sprigs  of  crisp  Pari' 
ley  may  be  added,  if  you  wish  to  make  it  look  very  smart ; 
and  Parsley,  or  Fennel  and  butter,  are  excellent  sauces,  see 
(No.  261,)  and  (No.  266,)  or  Chervil  sauce  (No.  264,)  An- 
chovy (No.  270). 

N.  B.  Boiled  Soles  are  very  good,  warmed  up  like  Eels, 
Wiggy's  way,  (No.  164,)  or  covered  with  While  Sauce,  (No. 
364,  No.  2,)  and  see  (No.  158). 

Soles,  or  other  Fish,  to  Fry.        (No.  145,) 

Be  sure  they  are  quite  fresh,  or  the  most  expert  Cook  cannot 
make  them  either  look,  or  eat  well. 

An  hour  before  you  intend  to  dress  them,  wash  them  thor- 
oughly, and  wrap  them  in  a  clean  cloth,  to  iTiake  them  perfect- 
ly dry,έΑΦ or  the  Bread  crumbs  will  not  stick  to  them. 
16 


183  n^iu 

Prepare  gome  Bread  Crumbs*  by  rubbing  some  stale  bread 
through  a  Cullender ;  or,  if  you  wish  the  Fish  to -appear  very 
delicately  and  highly  finisfi.'d,  through  a  Ha'ir  sieve. 

Beat  the  yoikaod  white  of  an  Egg  well  together,  on  a  plate, 
with  a  fork ; έΑΦ fiour  your  fish  to  absorb  any  moisture  that  may 
remain,  and  wipe  it  off  with  a  clean  ┬τloth  :έΑΦ dip  them  ia  the 
egg  on  both  sides  all  over,  or,  what  is  better,  egg  them  with  a 
paste-brusb,έΑΦ strew  the  Bread  Crumbs  all  over  the  Fisb,3o  that 
they  cover  every  part, έΑΦ take  up  the  fish  by  the  head,  and  shake 
off  the  Ioos┬τ  crumbs.  The  Fish  is  now  ready  for  the  Frying- 
pan. 

Put  a  Quart  or  more  of  fresh  sweet  Olive  Oil,  or  Cfarified 
Butter  (No.  259),  Dripping  (No.  83,)  Lard,+  or  Cferified 
Drippings  (No.  83) ;  be  sure  they  are  quite  sweet  and  perfect- 
ly clean  :  (the  Fat  ought  to  cover  the  Fish;)  what  we  here^r- 
der,  is  for  Soles  about  ten  inches  )oog, έΑΦ if  larger,  cut  them  io- 
to  pieces  ┬τthe  proper  size  to  help  at  table ;  this  will  save  much 
time  and  trouble  to  the  Cikrver,<έΑΦ ┬τwben  yon  send  them  to  table, 
lay  them  in  the  same  form  they  were  before  they  were  cut,  and 
you  may  strew  a  little  corled  Parsley' ┬τver  them  :  they  are  muck 
easier  managed  in  the  Fryingpan,  and  refquire  less  Fat;  and 
you  can  by  this  means  only  fry  the  thick  part  enough,  without 
frying  the  thin  too  much.  Very  large  Soles  should  be  boiled 
(No.  144,)  or  fried  in  Fillets  (No.  147). 

Set  the  fryingpan  over  a  sharp  and  clear  fire ;  watch  it,  skim 
it  with  an  Egg^ slice,  and  when  it  boils, j;  i.  e.  when-  it  has  done 
bubbling,  and  the  smoke  just  begins  to  rise  from  the  surface, 
put  in  the  Fish :  if  the  Fat  is  not  e<ctremely  hot,  it  is  impossible 
to  fry  Fish  of  a  good  colour,  or  to  keep  them  firm  and  crisp, 
(read  the  3d  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery). 

The  best  way  to  ascertain  the  heat  of  the  Fat,  is  to  try  it  with 
a  bit  of  bread  as  big  as  a  nut ;    if  it  is  quite  hot  enough,  the 


*  A  large  pair  of  Soles  will  take  the  fourth  part  of  a  quartern  Loaf, 
which  now  costs  twopence  halfpenny.  Oatmeal  is  a  good  substitute 
for  Bread  Crumbs, έΑΦ and  cost  comparati,veIy.  nothing. 

t  The  Fat  will  do  Two  or  Three  timeSy  if  strained  through  a  bair 
sieve,  and  put  by  ;  if  yon  do  not  find  it  enough,  put  a  little  fresh  to 
it.    Read  (No.  83,)  and  the  3d  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

X  This  requires  a  Heat  of  upwards  of  600  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's 
thermometer έΑΦ ^frting  is,  in  fact,  Boiling  in  Fat, 


.^___-^___ .┬τfe , 


FISH,  1 83 

bread  will  brown  immediately.  Putin  the  Fish,  and  it  will  be 
crisp  and  brown  on  the  side  next  the  fire,  in  about  four  or  $Te 
roinuies; έΑΦ to  turn  ft,  stick  a  two-pronged  fork  near  the  head, 
and  support  the  tail  with  a  fish-slice,  and  fry  the  other  side. 

Fry  one  Sole  at  a  time,  except  tht^  pan  is  very  large,  and  you 
have  plenty  of  fat. 

When  the  Fish  are  fried,  lay  them  on  a  soft  cloth  (old  table 

cloths  are  best),  near  enough  the  fire  to  keep  them  warm ;  turn 

them  every  two  or  three  niinuteSt  till  th'iy  are'qiute  dry  on  both 

sides έΑΦ this,  common  Cooks  commonly  neglect.     It  will  take 

ten  or  fifteen  minutesf,  if  the  Fat  you  fried  them  in  was  not  hot 

enough  ;    when   it  is,  they  want  very  little  drying.     When 

Soles  are  filled,  they  will  keep  very  good  in  a  d%*y  place  fir  three 

or  four  days  ;    warm  thernfby  hanging  them  on  the  hooks  in  a 

HuUch  oven,  letting  them  heat  very  gradually,  by  putting  it 

some  distance  from  the  fii  e  for  about  twenty  minutes,  or  in 

good  Gravy,  as  Eels,  Wiggy's  way,  (Nos,  164j  9>99y  "337,  or 

356).  έΨι'''^''   ''-'  '  .  έΑλ     ' 

Obs, έΑΦ There  are  several  general  rules  fa' this  Ri^ceipt  whicli 
apply  to  all  Fried  Fish : έΑΦ we  have  b^eo  very  particular  and 
mioute  in  our  directions  ;έΑΦ 'for,  although  a  Fried  Sole  is  so  fre- 
quent and  favourite  a  dish,  it  is  very  seldom  brought  to  table  in 
perfection.;}: 

Soles  to  Sletc.  (No.  1 46.) 

These  are  half  fried,  and  then  done  the  same  as  Eels,  Wig- 
gy's way.     See  (No.  164). 

Fillets  of  Soles,  Brown,  or  White,  (No.  147.)  ^ 

Take  off  the  Fillets  very  nicely έΑΦ trim  them  neatly,  and 
press  them  dry  between  a  soft  cloth  ;  Egg,  Crumb,  atid  Fry 
them,  &c.  as  directed  in  (No.  145,)  or  boil  them,  and  serve 
them  with  (No.  364,)  (No.  2). 

t  If  you  are  in  haste,  lay  the  Sole  on  a  dean  soft  cloth,  cover  it 
with  it,  and  gently  press  it  upon  the  fish  to  suck  up  the  fat  from  its 
surface. 

X  The  very  indifferent  manner  in  which  the  operation  of  frying  iuh 
is  usually  performed,  we  suppose,  produced  the  following  jeu  d' esprit 
which  appeared  in  The  Jifdrning  Chronicle  : έΑΦ 

**^The  King:^8  Bench  Reports  have  cookM  up  a.i  odd  diib, 
Ah  action  fof  d<iraag;ei.  Fry  rertut  Fuh, 
But  iure┬τ  if  for  damages  actio!)  could  lie. 
It  certainly  matt  have  been  Fith  against  Fry.^ 


1 84  FISH. 

N.  B.  This  is  one  of  the  best  ways  of  dressing  very  large 
Soles.     See  also  (No.  1 64.) 

fldr  Scfi  APPENDIX  I.  for  Skate. 

Cod  Boiled.  (No.  149). 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish,  and  rub  a  little  salt  in  the  inside  of 
it ;  (if  the  weather  is  very  cold,  a  large  cod  is  Ihe  better  for 
being  keptf  a  day  :)  put  plenty  of  water  in  your  fish-kettle,  so 
that  the  fish  may  be  well  covered  ;  put  in  a  large  handful  of 
salt:  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  in  your  fish  ;  a  very  small 
fish  will  require  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  after  the  water 
boils, έΑΦ large  ones  about  half  an  hour  ;  drain  it  on.  the  fish- 
plate ;  dish  it  with  a  garnish  of  the  Roe,  Liver,  ChiUe^h'ngs, 
&c. ;  or  large  native  Oysters,  fried  a  light  brown,  see  (No. 
183*)  or  Smelts,  (No.  173,)  Whitings,  (No.  153,)  the  taiit 
of  the  Cod  cut  ia  slices,έΑΦ K)r  split  it*έΑΦ and  fry  it.  Scolloped 
Oysters,  (No*  18%)  Oyster  Sauce,  (No.  i78), 

Mem.  The  Sounds, έΑΦ the  Jelly  parts  about  the  Jowl,  the 
Palate,  and  the  Tongue,  are  esteemed  exquisites  by  piscivorous 
Epicures έΑΦ whose  longing  Eyes  will  keep  a  sharp  look-out  for 
a  share  of  their  favourite  "  Bonne  Bouche  ;** έΑΦ the  Carver's 
reputation  depends  much  on  his  equitable  distribution  of  them. 

Salt  Fish  Boiled.  (No.  150.) 

Salted  Fish  requires  Soafdng^  according  to  the  time  it  has 
been  in  Salt ; έΑΦ that  which  is  hard  and  dry,  requires  two  nights' 
Foaking,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  times;  the  intermedi- 
ate day,  lay  it  on  a  stone  floor  ; έΑΦ for  Barrelled  Cod,  leas  time 
will  do;έΑΦ and  for  the  best  Dogger  Bank  Split  B'ish,  which  has 
not  been  more  than  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks  in  salt,  still  less 
will  be  nt┬╗edf┬τ┬╗l. 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  wa┬╗.er,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  till 
it  is  enoughέΑΦ if  the  water  boils,  the  fish  will  be  tough  and 
thready.  For  Ej^g  sauce,  see  (No.  267,)  and  to  boil  Red 
Beetroot,  (No.  127,)  Parsnips,  (No.  128,)  Carrots,  (No.  129). 
Garnish  Salt  Fish  with  the  yolks  of  Eggs,  cut  into  quarters. 


t  The  author  of  the  Cook**  Cookery,  does  not  seem  to  think  this  fish  ean  be  too 
fresh ;  for  he  commences  his  directions  with,  **  If  you  can,  get  a  Cod  hot  out  of  the 
Sea,'*  &c. 

t  The  tail  is  so  much  thinner  than  the  thick  |Mirt  of  the  bodv,  that,  if  boiled  to- 
l?ether,  the  farmer  will  be  boiled  too  muchέΑΦ before  the  latter  is  done  enouehέΑΦ there- 
fore it  sbouM  be  dressed  separate,  and  the  best  way  of  cookiDe  it  is  to  Ihr  it  in  Slifees 
or  Fillets  ;  see  (No.lil.) 


PISH*  185 

06s.έΑΦ Our  favourite  vegetable  accomfitniment  is  a  dish  of 
equal  parts  of  Red  Beetroot  and  Parsoips. 

N.  B.  Salted  Fish  differs  in  quality έΑΦ qmU  as  muc^  a┬╗  it 
does  in  price. 

Slices  of  Cod  BoiUd.  (No.  151.) 

Half  an  Hour  before  you  dress  them^  put  them  iDto  cold 
spring  water  with  some  salt  in  it. 

Lay  tbem  at  the  bottom  of  a  fish-kettle,  with  as  much  cold 
spring  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  some  salt ;  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  skim  it,  and  set  it  on  one  side  of 
the  fire  to  boil  very  gently,for  about  ten  roinutes,accordiag  to  its 
┬τze  and  thickness.  Garnish  with  scraped  Horseradish,  slices  of 
Lemon,  and  a  slice  of  the  Liver  or  one  side,  and  Chitterliog 
on  the  other.     Oyster  sauce,  (No.  278,)  and  Plain  Butter. 

06s.έΑΦ Slices  of  Cod  (especially  "the  Tail,  split,)  are  very 
good,  fried  like  Soles,  (No.  145,)  or  stewed  in  Gravy  tike  Eels, 
(No.  164,)  or  (No.  364,  No.  2.) 

Whitings  Fried.  (No.  1 53.^ 

Skin  them,*  preserve  the  liver,  see  No.  228,  and  f;?iSt6D  their 
tails  to  their  mouths;  dip  ihem  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  them  in  hot  lard,  read  (No.  145  ;)έΑΦ or  split  ihem,  and 
fry  them  like  fillets  of  Soles,  (No.  147.) 

A  three  quart  stewpan,  half  full  of  fat,  is  the  best  utensil  to 
fry  Whitings.  They  will  be  done  enough  in  about  five  min- 
utesέΑΦ but  it  will  sometimes  require  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
drain  the  fat  from  them  and  dry  them,  (if  the  fat  you  put  them 
into  was  not  hot  enough,)  turning  them  now  and  then  with  a 
Fish  Slice. 

065. When  Whitings  are  scarce,  the  Fishmongers  can 

skin  and  truss  young  Corf/mg-s,έΑΦ so  that  you  can  hardly  tell  the 
difference,  except  that  a  Codling  wears  a  Beard,  and  a  Whi- 
ting does  not:έΑΦ this  distinguishing  mark  is  sometimes  cut  off; 
however,  if  you  turn  up  his  Jowl,  you  may  see  the  mark  where 
the  Beard  was,and  thus  discover  whether  He  be  a  real  Wiiit- 
iNO,  or  a  Shaved  Codling. 

┬τ  The  Frencb  do  no|  flay  titcmέΑΦ Imt  iplit  thanέΑΦ dip  then  in  flour,  and  fry  thcfi┬╗ 
in  hot  dripping. 
16* 


1 SG  FISH. 

^aU  Fried.  (No.  154.) 

After  you  have  cleaned  the  fish,  divide  it  into  fillets,  dry 
them  00  a  clean  cloth ;  beat  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg 
thoroughly  together,  dip  the  fish  in  this,  and  then  in  fine  bre^d 
crumbs  :  fry  it  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  it  is  of  a  delicate 
brown  coloor  ;  lay  it  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain  ;  garnish  with 
Crisp  Parsley,  (No.  318,)  and  some  like  Caper  sauce,  with  an 
Anchovy  in  it. 

Plaice,  or  Flounders  Fried,  or  Boiled.         (No,  1 55.) 

Flounders  are  perhaps  the  most  difficult  fish  to  fry  very 
nicely.  Clean  them  well,  flour  them,  and  wipe  them  with  a 
dry  cloth  to  absorb  all  the  water  from  them  ;  flour  or  egg  and 
bread-crumb  them,  &c.  as  directed  in  (No.  145.) 

To  BOIL  Flounders. 

Wash  and  clean  them  well,  cut  the  black  side  of  them  the 
same  as  you  do  Turbot,  then  put  them  into  a  fish-kettle,  with 
plenty  of  cold  water  and  a  handful  of  salt ;  when  they  come 
to  a  boil,  scum  them  clean,  and  let  them  stand  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  for  hve  minutes,  and  they  are  ready. 

Ofts. έΑΦ Eaten  with  plain  melted  butter  and  a  little  salt ; έΑΦ ^you 
have  the  sweet  delicate  flavour  of  the  FlounderέΑΦ ^which  is 
overpowered  by  any  sauce. 

Water  Souchy^  (No.  156.) 

Is  made  with  Flounders,  Whitings,  Gudgeons,  or  Eels. 
These  must  be  quite /resA,  and  very  nicely  cleaned  ;  for  what 
they  are  boiled  in,  is  the  sauce  for  them. 

Wash,  gut,  and  trim,  your  Fish,,  cut  them  into  handsome 
pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  just  as  much  water 
as  will  cover  them,  with  some  parsley,  or  parsley  roots  sliced, 
an  onion  minced  fine,  and  a  little  pepper  arid  salt :  (to  this 
some  Cooks  add  some  scraped  Horseradish  and  a  Bay  leaf  ;)έΑΦ 
skim  it  carefully  when  it  boils  ;  when  your  fish  is  done  enough 
(which  it  will  be  in  a  few  minutes),  send  it  up  in  a  deep  dish 

t  One  of  my  Culinary  Counsellon  tayt  the  heading  of  thii  Receipt  thoold  be 
έΑλ*  Hovf  to  dress  a  good  dish  of  Fish  -while  the  Cloth  is  laying.'"  If  the  artielet  are 
ready,  tweWe  minutei  will  do  it,  with  tery  iittliB  trouble  or  csqieaie.  For  riehec 
itewed  Fiih,  leeCNo.  164). 


FISH.  187 

lined  with  bread  sippets,  and  some  slices  of  bread  aiid.btttter  oa 
a  plate. 

Obs.  Some  Cooks  thicken  the  liqcror  the  Fish  has  been  stew- 
ing in  with  flour  and  batterέΑΦ and  flavour  it  with  white  wine┬╗ 
Lemon  jaice.  Essence  of  Anchovy,  and  Catsup έΑΦ and  boil 
down  two  or  three  FloundeFS┬╗&c*  to  ji^ke  a  fish  broth,  to  boil 
the  other  fish  in έΑΦ observing  that  the  Broth  cannot  be  goody  un- 
less the  Fish  are  boiled  too  much. 

Haddock  Boiled  (No.  157.) 

Wash  it  well,  and  put  it  on  to  boil,  as  directed  in  (No.  149 ;) 
a  Haddock  of  three  pooods  will  take  abont  ten  minutes  after 

the  kettle  boils. 

έΑλ  έΑλ     έΑλ     έΨι 

Findkorn  Haddocks.  (No.  157*.) 

Let  the  Fish  be  well  cleaned  and  laid,  in  Salt  for  two  hours, 
let  the  water  drain  from  theco,  and  then  wet  them  with 
the  Pyroligneous  add^ έΑΦ they  may  be  split  or  not έΑΦ they  are 
then  to  be  hung  in  a  dry  situation  fpr  a  day  or  two,  or  a  week 
or  two,  if  you  please  ;  έΑΦ when  broiled,  they  have  aU  the  flavour 
of  the  Findborn  Haddock,  and  will  keep  eweet  for  a  long  time. 

The  Pyroligneous  acid,  eppliecTitf  the  same  way  to  Beef  or 
Mutton,. gives  the  fine  &moka  flavour,  and  may  be  kept  for  a 
considerable  length  of  time. 

fiT  See  APPENDIX  I.  for  Scotch  way  of  dressing  Had- 
docks. 

To  stew  Cod^s  Skull,  Soles^  Carp,  Trout,  Perch,  Eel,  or  Flourt' 
.    dfer.έΑΦ (No.  158)έΑΦ See  also  (Np.  164.) 

'  ,  έΑλ    έΑλ  έΑλ 

When  the  Fis^  has  been  properly  washed,  lay  it  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with,  half  a  pint  of  Claret  or  Port  wine,  and  a  quart  of 
good  Qravy^-^a  large  pnipq,  a  dozen  berries  of  black  Pepper, 
the  same  of  Allspice,and  a  few  .Cloves,or  a  bit  of  Mace ;  coyer 
the  fish-ketUe  close,  and  l^t  it  stew  gently  for  ten  or  twenty 
minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  fish ;  take  the  fish 
up,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  it  up,  and  thicken  the  liquor  that 
it  was  stewed, in  with  a  little  flour,  and  season  it  with  Pepper, 
Salt,  Essence  of  Anchovy,  Mushroom  Catsup,  and  a  little 
Chili  Vinegar  ;  when  it  has  boiled  ten  minutes,  strain  it  through , 
a  tammis^and  pour  it  over  the  %h;  if  there  is  more  sauce 
than  the  dish  will  bold^  send  the  rest  up  in  a  boat. 


1 88  FISH. 

0&<.έΑΦ These  fish  are  rerj  nice  plain  boiled,  with  (No.  ^61), 
or  (No.  264,)  for  sauce ;  some  Cooks  dredge  them  with  flour, 
and  fry  them  a  light  brown  before  they  put  them  on  to  stew έΑΦ 
and  stuff  them  with  (No.  374,)  or  some  of  the  stuffings  fol- 
lowing. 

To  Dress  them  Maiorb. 

Put  the  Fish  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  large  Onion,  four 
Clores,  fifteen  berries  of  Allspice,  and  the  same  of  black  pep- 
perέΑΦ just  cover  tbem  with  boiling  water,  set  it  where  they  will 
simmer  gently  for  ten  or  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  size 
of  the  Fish  ;  strain  off  the  liquor  in  another  stewpan,  leaving 
the  Fish  to  keep  warm  till  the  Sauce  is  ready. 

Rub  together  on  a  plate  as  much  flour  and  butter  as  will 
make  the  sauce  as  thick  as  double  Cream.  Each  Pint  o/ 
Sawce^  season  with  a  glass  of  Wine,  half  as  much  Mushroom 
Catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  Essence  of  Anchovy,  and  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne  ;  let  it  boil  a  few  n)inutes,  put  the  Fish  on  a  deep 
disb,  strain  the  Gravy  over  it;  garnish  it  with  Sippets  of  Bread 
toasted  or  fried,  (No.  319.) 

N.  B.  The  FSditor  has  paid  particular  attention  to  the  abovt 
Receipt,  and  also  to  (Iffo.*  324) έΑΦ which  Catholics  and  those 
whose  Religious  tenets  do  not  aUow  them  to  eat  Meat  on  Mcor 
gre  DaySy  will  find  a  very  satisfactory  substitute  for  the  Meat 
Gravy  Soup,  (No.  200.) 

For  Sauce  for  Maigre  Dishes,  see  (Nos.  225,  305,  aod 
364,  No.  2.) 

Obs, έΑΦ Mushroom  Catsup,  (No.  439,)  and  Onions,  (No. 
402,)  supply  the  place  of  Meat,  better  than  any  thing  ;  if  yoa 
have  not  these.  Wine, έΑΦ Spice,  (No.  457,) έΑΦ Curry  Powder, 
(No.  455,) έΑΦ Aromatie  Roots  and  Herbs, έΑΦ Anchovy  and  Soy, 
έΑΦ ^or  Oyster  Catsup,  (No.  441,)  variously  combined,  arid  thick- 
ened with  floor  and  butter,  are  convenient  substitutes. 

firr  Sec  APPENDIX  I.  for  Maigre  Fish  Pies. 

Perch  Fried,  (No.  159.) 

Wash  the  Fish  w^ll', έΑΦ wipe  them  on  a  dry  cloth, έΑΦ ^fionr 
them  lightly  all  over,  and  fry  them  ten  minutes,  see  (No. 
146,)  in  hot  lard  or  drippings ;  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to 
drain; έΑΦ send  them  up  on  a  hot  dish,  garnished  with  sprigs  of 
green  parsley.    Anchovy  sauce,  (No.  270,  and  I^o.  433.) 


r'<^ 


FISH.  189 

Pei'ch  Btriled.  (No.  160.) 

Clean  them  carefally,  and  put  them  io  a  fish-kettle,  with  as 
much  cold  spring  water  as  will  cover  them,  with  a  baodfal  of 
^alt ;  set  them  oo  a  quick  fire  till  they  boil ;  when  they  boil, 
set  them  on  one  side  to  boil  gently  for  about  ten  minutes,  ao┬╗ 
cording  to  their  size.  g:|"  Salt  water  Perch  are  skinned  6┬τ- 
fore  cooking. 

Salmon,  Herrings,  Sprat,%  Mackarel,  Sfc.  Pickled  (No.  161) 

Cut  the  Fish  into  proper  pieces έΑΦ do  not  take  off  the  scaies 
έΑΦ make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  Egg,  in  which  boil 
the  Fish έΑΦ it  must  he  boiled  in  only  just  liquor  enough  to  cor- 
er  it έΑΦ do  not  overboil  it.  When  the  6sh  is  boiled,  lay  it  slant- 
ingly to  drain  off  all  the  liquor έΑΦ when  cold,  pack  it  close  in  the 
kits,  and  fill  them  up  with  equal  parts  of  the  liquor  the  Salmon 
was  boiled  in  (having  first  well  skimmed  it),  and  best  Vinegar, 
(No.  24)  ;  let  them  rest  for  a  day,  fill  ap  again,  striking  the 
sides  of  the  kit  with  a  Cooper's  Adze  until  the  kit  will  receive 
00  more έΑΦ then  head  them  down  as  close  aa  posiible. 

0&s.^Tbis  is  in  the  finest  condition  wheo  fresh  Salmon  is 
most  plentiful,  (about  Midsummer) ;  the  season  for  it  is  from 
February  to  September.  Some  sprigs  of /res/i  gathered  young 
Fennel έΑΦ are  the  accompaniments. 

N.  B.  The  three  indispensable  marks  of  the  goodness  of 
Pickled  Salmon  are,  1  st,  The  brightness  of  the  scales,  and  their 
sticking  fast  to  the  skin  ;  2dly,  The  firmness  of  the  flesh  ;  and 
3dly,  its  fine  pale  red  rose  colour  ;έΑΦ without  these  it  is  not  fit 
to  eat,  and  was  either  stale  before  it  was  pickled,  or  has  been 
kept  too  Jong  after. 

The  above  was  given  us  as  the  actual  practice  of  those  who 
pickle  it  for  the  London  market. 

N.B.  Pickled  Salmon,  vyarmed  by  steam,  or  in  its  pickle 
liquor,  is  a  favourite  dish  at  Newcastle.  v 

Salmon  Boiled.  '     (No.  1*62.) 

Put  on  a  fish-kettle,  with  spring  water  enough  to  well  cover 
the  Salmon  you  are  going  to  dress,  or  the  Salmon  will  neither 
look  nor  taste  well:  (boil  the  Liver  in  a  separate  saucepan.) 
When  the  water  ..  boils,  put  in  a  handful  of  salt,  take  off  the 
scum  as  soon  as  it  rises,  have  the  fish  well  washed,  put  it  io, 
and  if  it  is  thick,  let  it  boil  very  gently  about  a  quarter  of  an 


..d^^M 


1 90  /isH. 

bour  to  a  pound  of  fish ;  but  practice  ODiy  can  perfect  the 
Cook  in  dressing  Salmon  ; έΑΦ a  quarter  of  a  split  Salmon  will 
take  almost  as  long  boilibg,  as  half  a  one.  Lobster  Sauce^ 
(No.  284.) 

06s. έΑΦ The  thinnest  part  of  the  Fish,  is  the  fattest,  and  if 
you  have  a  '*  Grand  Gourvian(r^  at  table,  ask  him  if  he  is  for 
Thick  or  Thin.  ^ 

The  Thames  Salmon  is  preferred  in  the  London  Market, 
and  some  Epicures  pretend  to  be  able  to  distinguish  by  ibe 
taate,  in  which  reach  of  the  river  it  was  caught !  ! ! 

N.B.  Tf  you  have  any  lefl^  put  it  into  a  pye-dish,^aDd  cover 
it  with  an  equal  portion  of  Vinegar  and  Pua)p-watery  aod  a 
little  salt,  it  will  be  ready  la  three  days. 

Fresh  Salmon  Broiled.  (No.  163.) 

Clean  the  salmon  well,  and  cut  it  into  slices  about  an  iach 
and  a  half  thick ;  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  clean  cloth,  r┬τb  itpytf 
with  sweet  oil,  or  thick  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  littlesalt 
over  it ;  pat  your  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  at  some  distjaac;^  i 
when  it  is  hot,  wipe  it  clean,  rub  it  with  sweet  oil  or  lard ;  Uy 
the  salmon  on,  and  when  it  is  done  on  One  side,  tarn  it  geutl/ 
and  broil  the  other.     Anchovy  sauce,  &c. 

Obs. έΑΦ An  oven  does  them  best. 

Soles  or  Ecfe+,4fc.  Sfc,  stewed  Wiocrr's  way,     (No.  164,; 

Take  two  pounds  of  fine  silver  Eels:]: ; έΑΦ the  best  are  those 
that  are  rather  more  than  a  half-crown  piece  in  circumference, 
quite  fresh,  full  of  life,  and  as  "  brisk  as  an  Eel  ;'*  such  as  bare 
been  kept  out  of  water  till  they  cigl  Bcarce  stir,  are  good  for 
nothing.  Gut  them,  rub  them  with  salt  till  the  slime  is  cleaoed 
from  them,  wash  them  in  several  ^different  waters,  and  divide 
them  into  pieces  about  four  inches  long. 

Some  cooks  skin  them,  dredge  them  with  a  little  fiour,  snd 
wipe  them  dry,  and  then  egg  and  crumb  them,  and  fry  them  in 
drippings  -  till  they  are  brown,  and  lay  them  to  dry  on  a  hair 
sieve,     {[ilr  See  Appendix  I. 

έΨι # 

-f  9nuill  Fish  and  the  Fillets  of  lYhiting,  TurboU,  Brills,  &c.  and  slices  of  ^od,  or 
the  Head  or  Tail  of  it,  are  excellent  dressed  the  same  way* 

X  The  Tellow  Eels  Ufte  muddy ;  the  whiteness  of  the  belly  of  the  fish,  b  not  Ac 
only  mark  to  know  the  |>est ;  the  right  colour  of  the  back  is  a  Tery  brirbt  coppery 
hne  i  Ibe  oUt┬τ  coloured  are  inferior ;  and  those  tending  to  a  green  are  worse. 


FISH*  191 

Have  reafly  a  quart  of  good  Beef  Grayy,  (No.  W9) ;  it 
must  be  cold  when  you  put  the  Eels  iDto  it ;  se^  them  on  a  alovr 
fire  to  simmer  very  gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  ac* 
cording  to  the  size  of  the  Eels; έΑΦ watch  them  that  they  ar┬╗ 
not  dooe  top  much ; έΑΦ take  them  carefully  out  of  the  stewpaa 
^th  a  fi^h  slice,  so  as  not  to  tear  their  coats,  and  lay  them  on 
a  dish  about  two  inches  deep. 

Make  the  Sauce  about  as  thick  as  cream,  by  mizing  a  Iittl┬╗ 
flour  with  it ;  and  put  in  also  two  tablespoon fuls  of  Port  wine, 
and  one  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  'Cavice ;  stir  it  into  the 
sauce  by  degrees,  give  it  a  boil,  and  strain  it  to  the  fish  through 
a  sieve. 

N.  B;  If  Mushroom  sauce,  (NO0. 295,  305,  or  333,)  or 
White  Sauce,  (No.  364,  No,  %)  be  used  instead  of  Beef  gni- 
Ty,  this  will  be  one  of  the  most  relishing  JWaigre  dishes  we 
know. 

Obs, έΑΦ To  kill  Eels  instantly^  without  the  horrid  torture  of 
cutting  and  skinning  them  alive,  pierce  the  spinal  marrow,  close 
to  the  back  part  of  the  skull,  with  a  sharp  pointed  skewer :  if 
this  be  done  in  the  right  place,  all  motion  will  instantly  cease. 
The  humane  Executioner  does  certain  criminals  the  favour  to 
hang  them  before  he  breaks  them  on  the  wheel. 

To  fry  Eek.  (No.  165.) 

Skin  and  gut  them,  and  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  cut 
tbem  in  pieces  four  inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper  and 
salt,  beat  an  egg  well  on  a  plate,  dip  them  in  the  egg,  and  then 
in  fine  bread  crumbs;  fry  them  in  fresh  clean  lard,  drain  tbem 
well  from  the  fat ;  Garc^sl;^  with  crisp  parsley  ;  for  Sauce,  plain 
and  melted  butter,  sharpened  with  lemon  juice,  or  Parsley  and 
Butter. 

{tr  See  APPENDIX  I.  /ar  Spitchcocked  Eek. 

Mackerel  Boiled.  (No.  167.) 

This  Fish  loses  its  life  as  soon  as  it  leaves  the  Sea,  and  the 
fresher  it  is  the  better. 

IVash  and  clean  them  thoroughly,  (the  fishmongers  seldom 
do  this  sufficiently),  put  them  into  cold  water  with  a  handful  of 
salt  in  it ;  let  them  rather  simmer,  than  boil ;  a  small  mackerel 
will  be  enough  in  about  a  quarter  ef  an  hour ;  when  the  Eye 
starts  and  the  Tail  splits,  they  are  done ;  do  not  let  them  stand 


192  .  FISH* 

in  the  water  a  moment  after ;  they  are  so  delicate  that  the  beat 
of  the  water  will  break  them. 

This  fish  ID  LoodoD  is  rarely  fresh  enough  to  appear  at  ta- 
ble in  perfection ;  and  either  the  Mackerd  is  boiled  too  much, 
or  the  Roe*  too  little.  The  best  way  is  to  open  a  slit  opposite 
the  middle  of  the  roe,  yoa  can  then  clean  it  properly ;  this  will 
allow  the  water  access,  and  the  roe  will  then  be  done  as  so^ 
έΑλ8  the  fisb,  which  it  seldom  is  otherwise ;  some  sagacious 
gourmands  insist  upon  it  they  must  be  taken  out  and  boiled 
separately.  For  sauce,  see  (Nos.  363,  265,  and  266,)  and  you 
may  garnish  them  with  pats  of  minced  Fennel. 

N.  B.  The  common  notion  is,  that  Mackerel  are  in  best  ca(%^ 
dition  when  fullest  of  Roe; έΑΦ however,  the  Fish  ni  that  time 
is  only  valuable  for  its  Roe^^the  Meat  of  it  has  scarcely  any 
flavour. 

After  they  have  let  go  their  Roes,  they  are  called  shotten 
mackerel,  and  are  not  worth  catching,  the  Roe,  which  was  all 
that  was  good  of  them,  being  gone. 

li  is  in  the  early  sedson,  token  they  have  least  Roe,  that  Ike 
flesh  of  this  Fi^  is  in  highest  perfection.  There  is  also  an 
after-season,  when  a  few  fine  large  Mackerel  are  taken,  (i,e, 
during  the  Herring  season,  about  October,)  which  some  pisciv- 
orous Epicures  are  very  partial  to, έΑΦ these  fish  having  had  time 
to  fatten  and  recover  their  Health,  are  full  of  high  flavour,  and 
their  flesh  is  firm  and  juicy  ;  they  are  commonly  called  Silver 
Mackerel  from  their  beautiful  appearance,  their  colour  being  al- 
most as  bright  when  boiled,  aji  it  was  the  moment  they  were 
caught. 

Mackerel  Broiled.  (No.  169.) 

Cleap  a  fine  large  mackerel,  wipe  it  on  a  dry  cloth,  and  cut 
a  long  slit  down  the  back  ;  lay  it  on  a  clean  gridiron,  over  a 
very  clear  slow  fire  ;  when  it  is  done  on  one  side  turn  it ;  be 
careful  ^hat  it  does  not  burn  ;  send  it  up  with  Fennel  sauce, 
(No.  265,)  mix  well  together  a  Ultle  finely  minced  Fennel  and 
Parsley  seasoned  with  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt,  a  bit  of  fresh 
butter,  and  when  the  Mackerel  are  ready  for  the  table,  put  some 
of  this  into  each  fish. 

ij;^  See  Appendix,  for  a  superior  Receipt  to  cook  Mackerel. 
'┬τέΨιέΑλ.έΨι έΑΦ έΨιέΨι  έΑΦ  - 

*L.r.  '^1'*'  ^?f  ***"  *^  ^*^┬τ'  **┬τ'έΑλ  ┬╗  *f(^  "kc  the  braini  of  a  Calf,-tlut  of  the 
fbll  of  imall  9ggg,  and  called  hard  Hoe. 


FISH.  1 93 

Mackerel  Baked.  (No.  170.) 

Cut  off  their  beads,  open  theni,  and  take  out  the  roes,  and 
clean  ihem  thoroughly ;  rub  them  oo  the  inside  wuh  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  put  the  roes  io  again,  season  them  (with  a  mix- 
ture of  powdered  allspice,  black  pepper  and  salt,  well  rubbed 
together,)  and  lay  them  close  in  a  baking  pan,  cover  them  with 
equal  quantities  of  cold  vinegar  and  water,  tie  them  down  with 
stroog  white  paper  doubled,  and  bake  them  for  an  hour  in  a 
elow  OTen.     They  will  keep  for  a  fortnight. 

Sprats  Brmled.  (No.  170*.) 

If  you  have  not  a  Sprat  Gridiron,  get  a  piece  of  pointed  iron 
^ire  as  thick  as  packthread,  and  as  long  as  your  gridiron  is 
broad  ;  run  this  through  the  heads  of  the  sprat?,  sprinkle  a  tit- 
tle flour  and  salt  over  them, έΑΦ put  your  gridiron  over  a  clear 
qeick  fire,  turn  them  in  about  a  couple  of  minutes  :  when  the 
other  side  is  brown,  draw  out  the  wire,  and  send  up  the  fish 
with  melted  butter  in  a  cup. 

Obs. έΑΦ That  Sprats  are  young  Herrings,  is  evident  by  their 
anatomy,  in  which  there  is  no  perceptible  difference.  They 
appear  very  soon  after  the  Herrings  are  gone,  and  seem  to  be 
the  spawn  just  vivified. 

Sprats  Stewed.  (No.  170.**) 

Wash  and  dry  youV  Sprats,  and  lay  them  as  level  as  you 
can  in  a  stewpan,  and  between  every  layer  of  sprats  put  three 
Peppercorns  and  as  many  allspice,  with  a  few  grains  of  salt; 
barely  cover  them  with  Vinegar,  and  stew  them  one  hour  over 
a  slow  fire;  they  must  not  boil ;  a  Bay  Leaf  is  sometimes  add- 
ed. Herrings  or  Mackerel  may  be  stewed  the  same  way. 
To  Fry  Sprats,  see  (No.  173.) 

Herrings  Broiled.  (No.  171.*) 

Wash  them  well,  then  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  dust  them  with 
flour,  and  broil  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  well  done. 
Send  up  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

Obs. έΑΦ For  a  particular  account  of  Herrings,  see  Solas 
Dodd's  Natural,  Hist  of  Herrings, 

Pickled  Mackerel,  Herrings,  or  Sprats.     (No.  171.) 
Procure  them  as  fresh  as  possible,  split  them  open,  take  off 
the  heads,  and  trim  off  all  the  thin  part  of  the  belly,  put  them 
17 


194  FISH. 

ioto  salt  and  wftter  for  one  hour,  drain  and  wipe  your  fish,  and 
put  them  into  jars  or  casks,  with  the  following  preparation, 
which  is  enough  for  three  dozen  Mackerel.  Take  salt  and  bay 
salt,  one  pound  each,  saltpetre  and  tump  sugar,  two  ounces 
each  ;  grind  and  pound  the  salt,  &c.  well  together,  put  the  fish 
into  jiars  or  casks,  with  a  layer  of  the  preparation  at  the  bottom, 
then  a  layer  of  mackerel  with  the  skin  side  downwards  ;  so 
continue  alternately  till  the  cask  or  jar  is  full ;  press  it  down 
and  cofer  it  close.  In  about  three  months  they  will  be  fit  for 
use. 

Red  Herrings,  and  other  Dried  Fish,    (No.  172.^ 

"  Should  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner  now  practised  by 
the  poor  in  Scotland.  They  soak  them  in  water  until  they  be* 
come  pretty  fresh ;  they  are  then  hung  up  in  the  Sun  and 
Wind,  on  a  stick,  through  their  Eyes,  to  dry ;  and  then  boiled 
or  broiled.  In  this  way,  they  eat  almost  as  weU  as  if  they 
were  new  caught.^' 

'*  Scotch  Haddocks  should  be  soaked  allii^bt.  Yoa  may 
boil  or  broil  them  ;  if  you  broil,  split  tbem  in  two. 

''  All  the  different  sorts  of  Dried  Pish,  except  Stock  With^^^ 
are  salted,  dried  in  the  Sun,  in  prepared  kilns,  or  by  the  smob 
of  wood  fires ;  and  require  to  be  softened  and  freshened,  in 
proportion  to  their  bulk,  nature,  or  dryness ;  the  veiy  dry  sort, 
as  CW,  Whitings  Sfc,  should  be  steeped  in  Inkewafm  water, 
kept  as  near  as  possible  to  an  equal  degree  of  Heat  The 
larger  fish  should  be  steeped  twelve  hours ;  the  smaller  about 
two  ;  after  which  they  should  be  taken  out  and  hung  up  by  the 
tails  until  they  are  dressed.  The  reason  for  hanging  them  up 
is,  that  they  soften  equally  as  in  the  steeping,  without  extract- 
ing too  much  of  the  relish,  which  would  render  them  insipid. 
When  thus  prepared,  the  small  F┬τ┬τ^,  as  Whiting,  Tusk,  &c. 
should  be  floured  and  laid  on  the  gridiron  ;  and  when  a  little 
hardened  on  one  side,  must  be  turned  and  basted  with  sweet 
oil  upon  a  feather ;  and  when  basted  on  both  sides,  and  well 
heated  through,  taken  up.  A  clear  charcoal  fire  is  the  best  for 
cooking  them,  and  the  Fish  should  be  kept  at  a  good  di^aaee, 
to  broil  gradually.  "When  they  are  enough  they  will  swell  a 
little  in  the  basting,  and  you  must  not  let  them  fall  again.  If 
boiledy  as  the  larger  fish  generally  are,  they  should  be  kept  just 
simmering  over  an  equal  fire  ;  in  which  way  half  an  hour  will 
do  the  largest  fish,  and  ^^e  minutes  the  smallest. 


L 


Fisti*  195 

"  DHed  Salmon,  tbougb  a  large  F┬╗k,  does  npt  tequire  more 
steeping  than  a  Whiting ;  and  when  laid  oir  the  |ndiron  should 
be  moderately  peppered.  To  Herring  and  to  all  kinds  of 
broiled  Soli  Fish,  sweet  oil  is  the  best  basting." 

The  above  is  from  Macdonald's  London  Family  Cock. 

SmeltSy  Sprats  J  or  other  smaU  Fish  Fried,  (No.  173.) 
Clean  and  dry  them  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  fry  them  plain,  or 
laeat  an  egg  on  a  plate,  dip  them  in  it,  and  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs  that  have  been  nibbed  through  a  siere ;  fry  them  in 
plenty  of  elean  iafd,  or  drippings ;  as  soon  as  the  lard  boils  and 
is  still,  put  in  the  fiehj-^as  soon  as  they  are  delicately  browned, 
they  are  done ;  tbie  will  hardly  take  two  minutes.  Drain  them 
on  a  hair  sieve,  placed  before  the  fire^  twiriDg  them  till  quite 
dry. 

O&s.έΑΦ Read  (No.  145.) 

PoUed  Prawns^  Shrimps^  or  Cray^Jish.    (No.  17d.) 

Boil  them  in  water,  with  plenty  of  Salt  in  it.  When  you 
have  picked  them,  powder  them  with  a  little  beaten  mace,  or 
grated  nutmeg,  or  allspice,  and  pepper  and  salt ;  add  a  little 
cold  butter,  and  pound  all  well  together  in  a  marble  mortar  till 
of  the  consistence  of  paste.  Put  it  into  pots  covered  with 
clarified  butter,  and  cover  them  over  with  wetted  bladder. 

Lobster.  (No.  176.) 

Buy  these  Alive, έΑΦ the  Lobster-Merchants  sometimes  keep 
tbem  till  they  are  starved,  before  tliey  boil  them  ;  they  are  then 
watery,  and*tave  not  baU  their  flavour. 

Choose  those  that  (as  an  old  Cook  says,  are  '*  Heavy  and 
Livehj^^  and)  are  full  of  motion,  which  is  the  index  of  their 
freshness. 

Those  of  the  middle  size  are  the  best.  J\'*ever  take  them 
when  the  Shell  is  incrusted,  which  is  a  sign  they  are  old.  The 
Male  Lobster  is  preferred  to  Eat,  and  the  Female  (on  account 
of  the  Eggs)  to  make  Sauce  of.  The  Hen  Lobster  is  distin- 
guisbed,  by  having  a  broader  Tail  than  the  Male,  and  less 
claws. 

Set  on  a  pot^  with  water  salted  in  the  proportion  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water ; έΑΦ when  the  water  boils  put 
it  in,  and  keep  it  boiling  briskly  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour, 
according  to  its  size  ;  wipe  all  the  scum  off  it,  and  rub  the  shell 
with  a  very  little  butter  or  sweet  oil ;  break  off  the  great  claws^ 


196  FISH. 

crack  them  carefully  in  each  joint,  so  that  they  may  not  be  shat- 
tered, and  yet  come  to  pieces  easily,  cut  the  tail  down  the  mid- 
dle, and  send  up  the  body  whole.  For  Sauce  (No.  385.)  To 
pot  Lobster  (No.  178.) 

*^*  These  Fish  come  in  about  Aprils  and  continue  plentifiil 
till  the  Oyster  season  returns*  ;  after  that  time  they  begin  to 
spawn,  and  seldom  open  solid. 

Crab.  (No.  177.) 

The  abore  obaenrations  apply  to  Crabs,  which  should  neither 
be  too  small  nor  too  large.  The  best  size  are  those  which 
tneasare  about  eight  inches  across  the  shoulders. 

*^*  Crabs  make  their  appearance  and  disappearance  about 
the  same  time  as  Lobstere.  The  Cromer  Crabs  are  most  es- 
:teemedf  but  numbers  are  brought  from  the  Ide  of  Wights 

Potted  Lobster  or  Crab.  (No.  17S.) 

This  must  be  made  with  fine  Hen  Lobsters  when  full  of 
spawn,  boil  them  thoroughly,  see  (No.  176);  when  cold,  pick 
out  all  the  solid  meat,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  it  is  usual  to 
add  by  degrees  (a  ?ery  little)  finely  pounded  mace,  black  or 
Cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and,  while  pounding,  a  little  butter. 
When  the  whole  is  well  mixed,  and  beat  to  the  consistence  of 
paste,  press  it  down  hard  in  a  preserving-pot,  pour  clarified 
butter  over  it,  and  cover  it  with  wetted  bladder. 

Obs, έΑΦ Some  pot  Lobster  without  pounding  it,  and  only  cut 
h  or  pull  it  iftto  such  pieces  as  if  it  was  prepared  for  sauce,  and 
mince  it  with  the  spawn  and  soft  parts  and  seasoning,  and  press 
it  together  as  close  as  possible  ;  in  packing  it,  place  the  coral 
and  spa^vn,  &c.  in  layers,  so  that  it  may  look  regular  and  hand- 
some when  cut  out.  If  you  intend  it  as  store,  see  N.  B.  to 
(No.  284)  to  make  Sauce  with,  this  is  the  best  way  to  do  it έΑΦ 
but  if  for  Sandwiches,  &;c.  the  first  is  the  best,  and  will  keep 
much  longer. 

Drbsscd  Buttered  Lobsters  and  Crabs  are  favourite  or- 
namental dishes  with  thosp  who  deck  their  table  to  please  the 
eye.  Our  apology  for  not  giving  the  Receipt  will  be  tbund 
in   06s.  to  (No.  322.) 

έβο  In  the  Boston  Market,  Lobsters  are  sold  ready  boiled.  Many 
persons,  we  may  say  almost  all,  choose  to  have  them  brought  from. 
the  barrow,  and  after  being  shelled,  to  be  eaten  with  Sauce  (No. 
453.)     ttTSe?  Appendix,  No.  1.  ┬μmcr.  Edit, 


riSH.  197 

OYSTERS^.  (No.  181.) 

The  cominoQ+  Colchester  and  Feversham  oyslere  are  brought 
to  market  oo  the  5tb  of  August ; έΑΦ the  Miltou  or  as  they  are 
commonly  called,  the  melting  Native8,X  do  not  come  in  tiU  the 
beginniag  of  October,  cootioue  in  season  till  the  l^th  of  May, 
and  approach  the  meridian  of  their  perfection  about  Christmas. 

Some  piscivorous  Gourmands  think  that  Oysters  are  not  best 
when  quite  fresh  from  their  beds,  and  that  their  flavour  is  too 
brackish  and  harsh,  and  is  much  ameliorated  by  giving  them  -a 
feed. 

To  Fbbd┬π  Oysters.     Cover  them  with  clean  water,  with  a 
pint  of  salt  to  about  two  gallons ;    (nothing  else,  no    oatmeal, 
f\our,  nor  any  other  trumpery)  ;    this  will  cleanse  them  from 
the  mud  and  sand,  &c.  of  the  bed  ;    after  they  have  lain  in  it 
twelve  hours,  change  it  for  fresh  salt  and  water,  and  in  twelve 
hours  more  they  will  be  in  prime  order  for  the  Moutb,  and  re- 
main  so  two  or  three  days: έΑΦ at  the  time  of  high  water  you 
may  see  them  open  their  shells,  in  expectation  of  receiving  their 
usual  food.     Tliis  process  of  feeding  oysters,  is  only  employ- 
ed when  a  great  many  come  up  together.     The  real  Colches- 
ter, or  Pyfleet  barrelled  oysters.that  are  packed  at  the  beds,  are 
better  without  being  put  in  water  ;  they  are  carefully  and  tight- 
ly packed,  and  fnust  not  be  disturbed  till  wanted  for  table  : 
these,  in  moderate  weather,  will  keep  good  for  a  week,  or  ten 
days. 

If  an  Oyster  opens  his  mouth  in  the  barrel,  he  dies  immedi- 
ately. 

To  preserve  the  lives  of  Barrelled  Oysters^  put  a  heavy 
weig;ht  on  the  wooden  top  of  the  barrel,  which  is  to  be  placed 
on  (be  surface  of  the  oysters.  This  is  to  be  effected  by  re- 
moving the  first  hoop,  the  staves  will  then  spread  and  stand 


έΑλ  Oyster  Saliee,(No.  2780  PrcwrTed  Oysters  (No.  280.) 

έΑλf  Those  wrt  ealled  Commfi  Oyttert  which  are  picked  up  on  the  French  coast, 
and  laid  in  the  Colchester  beds. 

Th*-^^  are  never  so  fine  and  fiit  as  the  Kative*^  and  seldom  reeover  the  shock  their 
feelinRs  i-eceive,  from  heingr  transported  from  .their  native  plaee  :->deHcate  Utile 
Cn^'tivts,  they  are  as  exquisite  iu  their  own  taste,  as  they  are  to  the  uste  of  others  * 

t  Oysters  are  thas  called,  that  are  born,  as  well  as  bred  and  fed  in  this  eountrr, 
and  are  mostly  spit  in  the  Burnh*m  and  Mersey  rirers ;  they  do  not  come  to  their 
finest  condition  till  they  are  near  fonr  years  old. 

fi  Will  RablthaAn  his  Rcetjiptto  broil  oyrtert^^rteu,  that  while  they  areiuf^ 
coW  tbia  operatMA,  tbey  slMuld  irnfed  with  wbit┬τ  wuc  wd  p┬τted  bmtd. 

J  7* 


198  nsif. 

erects  making  a  wide  opeoiog  for  the  head  of  the  barrel  to  fail 
dowQ  closely  on  the  retnardiog  fish,  keeping  them  close  to^ 
get  her. 

Ohs. έΑΦ ComnooD  people  are  lodifFerent  about  ike  manner  of 
opening  OysterBf  aod  the  time  of  eating  them  after  they  are 
opened ;  nothing,  however,  is  more  important,  ia  the  enlight- 
ened eyes  of  the  experienced  Oyster  eater. 

Those  who  wish  to  enjoy  this  delicious  restorative  in  its  ut- 
most perfection,  must  eois  U  the  momevt  it  is  opened^  with  ]t┬╗ 
own  gravy  in  the  under  shell : έΑΦ if  not  Eaten  while  Absoluielif 
Alive,  its  flavour  and  spirit  is  lost. 

The  true  lover  of  an  Oyster,  will  have  some  regard  for  the 
feelings  of  his  little  favourite,  and  will  never  abandon  it  to  the 
mercy  of  a  bungling  operator, έΑΦ but  will  open  it  himself,  and 
contrive  to  detach  the  Fish  from  the  shell  so  dexterously,  that 
the  Oyster  is  hardly  conscious  he  has  been  ejected  from  his 
Lodging,  till  he  feels  the  Teeth  of  the  piscivorous  Gourmand. 
tickling  him  to  Death. 

N.  B.  Fitb  is  lest  nutritioui  than  Flesh :  as  a  proof,  whco  the 
trainer  of  Newmarket  wishes  to  watte  a  Jockey,  he  is  not  allowed 
Meat,  nor  even  Pudding-,  if  Fish  can  be  had.  The  white  kinds  of 
Fish,  Turbots,  Soles,  Whiting,  Cod,  Haddock,  Flounders,  Smelts,  Sic. 
are  less  nutritious  than  theoib^  U^  Fish,  such  as -Eels, "Salmon,  Her* 
rings.  Sprats,  &c. ;  the  latter,  however,  are  more  difficult  to  digest^ 
and  often  disturb  weak  stomachs,  so  that  they  are  obliged  to  call  in- 
the  assistance  of  Caytnne^  CogniaCy  he. 

Shell  Fish,  have  long  held  a  high  rank  in  the  catalogue  of  easily 
digestible  and  speedily  restorative  foods ;  of  these,  the  Oyster  cer- 
tainly deserves  the  best  character, έΑΦ but,  we  think  it  has  acquired  not 
&  little  more  reputation  for  these  qualities  than  it  deserves  ;  a  well' 
dressed  Chopt  or  Steak,  see  (No.  94,)  will  invigorate  the  Heart  in  a 
much  higher  ratio ;  and  to  recruit  tht  Jinimal  Spiritt  and  tupport 
ttrengUif  there  is  nothing  eqnal  to  Animal  food, έΑΦ when  kept  till  prop* 
erly  tender^  none  will  give  so  little  trouble  to  the  Digestive  organs, 
and  so  much  substantial  excitement  to  the  Constitution.  See  note 
under  (No.  186*.) 

We  could  easily  say  as  much  in  praise   of  Mutton,  as  Mr.  Ritson 
has  against  it,  in  his  **  Essay  on  Mstinenet  from  Mun&l  Food   as  a 

t  Animal  food,  being  composed  of  themast:  natritioni  parts  of  the 
food  on  which  the  animal  lived,  and  haying  already  been  digested  by 
the  proper  organs  of  an  animal,  requires  only  solution  and  mixture, 
whereas  Vegetable  food  must  be  converted  into  a  substance  of  an 
animal  nature,  by  the  proper  action  ofowr  own  Viscera,  and  conse- 
,  qaently,  reqpires  move  Labour  of  the  Stomach,  and  otbei:  Pigestive 
Orgaas.!'έΑΦ BwKTQi^  e┬╗.  tf^^  J^Ton-naiuitais. 


FISH*  ]  99 

┬╗ 

Moral  diUyy  He  sajv,  <<  The  Pagpan  PrlesU  were  tVie  first  eaten  of 
Animal  Food  *,  it  corrupted  their  taste,  and  so  excited  them  to  Glnt- 
touy,  that  when  they  had  eaten  the  same  thing  repeatedly,  their  luxu- 
fioUB  j^ppetilex  called. for  Variety. έΑΦ He  who  had  doTOuredthe  Sheep 
longed  to  nuuiicate  ihe  Shepherd ! ! ! 

.  <'  Natare  seems  to  have  provided  other  Animals  for  the  food  of 
man,  from  the  astonishing  increase  of  those  which  instinct  points  6aC 
to  him  as  peculiarly  desirable  for  that  purpose.  For  instance;  so 
quick  is  the  produce  of  Pigeons,  that  in  the  space  of  four  years  14,760 
may  come  from  a  single  pair ;  and  in  the  like  period  1,274,840  from 
a  couple  of  rabbits,έΑΦ -^is  is  nothing  to  the  millions  of  eggs  in  the  melt 
of  a  cod  fish.'*  * 

Scolloped  Oysters.  (No.  182.) 

A  good  way  to  warm  op  any  cold  Fish. 

<  Stfiw  tlie  OyMcra  slowly  io  their  owd  liquor  for  two  or  three 
minutes, έΑΦ take  them  out  with  a  spoon,  and  beard  them  and 
skim  the  liquor, έΑΦ put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  Btewpan,-~and 
when  it  is  melted,  add  as  much  fine  bread  crumbs  as  will  dry 
it  up,  then  put  to  it  the  Oyster  liquor,  and  give  it  a  boil  up,-έΑΦ 
put  the  Oysters  into  Scollop  shells  that  you  have  buttered,  and 
stewed  with  bread  crombe, έΑΦ then  a  layer  of  Oysters, έΑΦ ^then  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  then  some  more  Oysters, έΑΦ moisten  it  with 
the  Oyster  liquor,  cover  them  with  bread  crumbs, έΑΦ put  about 
half  a  dossen  little  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each,  and  brown 
tbecn  in  a  Dutch  oveik 

Obs. έΑΦ Essence  of  Anchovy,  Catsup,  Cayenne,  grated  hem- 
on  Peel,.  Mace,  and  other  Spices,  Ssc,  are  added  by  those  who 
prefer  fiqwmce  to  the  genuine  fla? our  of  the  Oyster. 

Colo  FrsH  may  be  re-dressed  in  the  same  way. 

N.  B.  Small  Scollop  shells,  or  Saucers  that  bold  about  hall 
a  dozen  Oysters  are  the  most  convenient. 

Steioed  Oysters.  (No.  18^.*) 

Large  Oysters  will  do  for  stewing,  and  by  some  are  prefer- 
red ;  but  we  love  the  plump,  juicy  natives.  Stew  a  couple  of 
dozen  of  these  in  their  own  liquor  ^ έΑΦ when  they  are  coming 
to  a  boil,  skim  well,,  take  them  up  and  beard  them ;  strain 
the  liquor  through  a  tammis  sieve,  and  lay  the  oysters  on  a 
dish.  Put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan, έΑΦ when  it  is 
melted,  put  to  it  aa  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up,|tbe  li> 
quor  of  the  Oysters,  and  three  tablespoonsful  of  milk  or  cream, 
and  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt ;  to  this  some  Cooks  add  a 
little  Catsup  or  finely  chopped  Parsley,  grated  Lemon  Peel,  and 
juice  'f  let  it  boil  up  for  a  couple  of  miatftes,  till  it  is  smooth, 


X 


200  FISH. 

then  take  it  ofT  the  fire,  put  in  the  Oysters,  sod  let  them  get 
warm  ;  (they  must  oot  themselves  be  boiled,  or  they  will  be- 
come hard ;)  Igne  the  bottom  aod  sides  of  a  hash-dish  with 
bread  sippets,  and  poor  your  oysters  aad  sauce  ioto  it.  See 
06s.  to  Recerpt  (No.  97&) 

OysUrs  Fried.  (No.  183.) 

The  largest  and  finest  Oysters  are  to  be  chosen  for  this  pur- 
pose ;  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor  for  about  five  minutes, 
έΑΦ take  them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain,-7-l)eard 
tbem,  then  flour  them,έΑΦ egg  and  bread-crumb  them, έΑΦ put  them 
into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown. 

Ob$, έΑΦ A  very  nice  garnish  for  Made  Dishes,  Stewed  Rump 
Steaks,  boiled  or  fried  Fish,  &c. 

S^  See  AppendiSf  I,  for  a  Receipt  to  make  Chowder^ 


THE  .#  v\ 

COOK'S  ORACLE. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

Beef  Broth*.  (No.  185.) 

Wash  a  Leg  or  Shin  of  Beef  very  clean,  crack  the  bone  in 
two  or  three  (iilaces,  (this  you  should  desire  the  but┬τher  to  do 
for  you,)  add  thereto  any  trimmiogf  you  have  of  Meat,  Game, 
or  Poultry,  (i,  e,  heads,  necks,  gizzards,  feet,  &c.)  and  cover 
thenn  with  cold  water,^-watch  and  stir  it  up  well  from  the  bot- 
tom, and  the  moment  it  begins  to  simmer,  sfo'm  it  carefully-^ 
your  Broth  must  be  perfectly  clear  and  limpid  ; έΑΦ on  this,  de^ 
pends  the  goodness  of  the  Soups,  Sauces,  and  Gravies,  of  which 
it  is  the  Basis  ;  then  add  some  cold  water  to  make  the  remain- 
ing scum  rise,  and  skim  it  again  ; έΑΦ when  the  scum  has  done 
rising,  and  the  surface  of  the  broth  is  quite  clear,  put  in  on& 
mod[erate-sized  Carrot,  a  head  of  Celery,  two  Turnips, 
and  two  Onions, έΑΦ ^it  should  not  have  any  taste  of  sweet  herbs┬╗ 
spice,  or  garlic,  &c. έΑΦ ^eitber  of  tliene  flavours  can  be  easily  im* 
mediately  added  after,  if  desired,  by  (Nos.  420,  421, 402,)&c┬╗ 
έΑΦ cover  it  close, έΑΦ set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire, έΑΦ and  let  it  sim- 
mer very  gently  (so  as  not  to  waste  the  Brbth)  for  four  or  five 
boors,  or  more,  according  to  the  weight  of  the  Meat : έΑΦ strain 
it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  and  dry  stone  pan,  iind  set  it  in 
the  coldest  place  you  have. 

O&s. έΑΦ This  is  the  foundation  of  all  sorts  of  Soups  and 
Sauces,  brown  or  white. 

Stew  no  longer  than  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done  to  eat^ 
and  you  will  obtain  excellent  Broth,  without  depriving  the 
Meal  of  its  nutritious  succulence : έΑΦ to  boil  it  to  rags,  as  is  the 
common  practice,  will  not  enrich  your  Broths,  but  make  them 
thick  and  grouty. 


;έΑη┬μm 


*  In  culinary  reehnieals,  is  called^r^  *tack,  or  long  BrothέΑΦ in  the  French  Kitch' 
euy  Le  Grand  Bouillon, 


203  BROTHS,   ORAVIES,  AND   SOUPS. 

The  ?4eal*,  when  gently  stewed  for  only  four  or  five  bouts 
till  it  is  just  tender,  remains  abundantly  sapid  and  nourishing^ 
and  will  aSbrd  a  relishing  and  wholesome  meal  for  half  a  doz- 
en people ; έΑΦ or  Make  Potted  Beef,  (No.  503 :) έΑΦ or,  when  you 
have  strained  off  the  Broth, έΑΦ cover  the  meat  again  with  water^ 
and  let  it  go  on  boiling  for  four  hours  longer,  and  make  what 
.some  Cooks  call  "  Second  Stock," έΑΦ it  will  produce  some 
very  good  Glaze,  or  Portable  Soup  3  see  (No.-  252)  and  the 
Obs.  thereon, 

BeefGra'Cyf.  (No.  186.) 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  Stewpan,  that  is  well  tinned  and  quite 
clean,  with  a  slice  of  good  Ham  or  lean  Bacon,  fonr  or  five 
pounds  of  Gravy  Beef  cut  into  half-pound  pieces,  a  Carrot,  ao 
OnioD  with  two  Cloves  stack  in -it,  and  a  head  of  Celery ;  pat 
a  pint  of  Broth  or  water  to  it,  cover  it  closei  and  set  it  over  a 
moderate  fire  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  as  little  as  will  just 
save  the  ingredients  from  burning  ;  then  turn  it  all  about,  and 
let  it  brown  slightly  and  equally  all  over; έΑΦ then  put  in  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water]; ;  when  it  boils  up,  skim  it  carefully, 
and  wipe  off  with  a  clean  doth  what  sticks  round  the  edge  and 
inside  of  the  steWpan,  that  your  gravy  may  be  delicately  clean 
and  clear.  Set  it  by  the  side  of  a  fire,  where  it  will  stew  gent- 
ly (to  keep  it  clear,  and  that  it  may  not  be  reduced  too  much) 
for  about  four  hours: έΑΦ ^if  it  has  not  boiled  too  fast,,  there  should 
be  two  quarts  of  good  gravy  ;  strain  through  a  silk  or  tarn  mis 
sieve  ;  take  very  particular  care  to  skim  it  well,  and  set  it  in  a 
cold  place. 

Strong  Savoury  GravyέΑΦ (No,  188,)έΑΦ oZias  ┬τ  Broivn  Sauce,'' 

(dias   "Grand  Espagnol.'^ 

Take  a  Stewpan  that  will  hold  four  quarts,  lay  a  slice  or  two 
of  Ham  or   Bacon   (about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  at  the 

*  A  dor  was  fed  mi  the  richest  Broth.,  yet  could  not  be  kept  alire ;  wbile  anotber, 
which  had  only  the  Meat  beiied  to  a  Chip^  (andwater^  throye  very  well.  Tbit  shows 
the  folly  of  attf^mpting  to  noorish  Men  by  Concentrated  Sonpt,  Jellies,  &e.έΑΦ Sinelair┬τ 
Code  tf  Health. 

If  this  experiment  beaecnrate.  what  beeomet  of  the  theoietie  TisionB  of  thoie  who 
have  written  about  Boorisbinr  Broths.  &e.?έΑΦ TAe  beH  test  of  the  restorative  quality 
έΑλ/Food.,  is  a  small  quantity  of  it  satisfyinKT  hun^fer,  the  streng^  of  thepulsewcer  it, 
and  the  lenj^b  of  time  which  elapses  before  appetite  returns  aii;ain.  Aecotding  to 
this  rule,  we  pVe  our  yerdict  m  nroor  of  (No.  10  or  34.)    See  N.  B.  to  181. 

t  Called  in  some  Cookery  Booki,  Second  Stock,έΑΦ in  the  French  Kitchen,  Jtude 
bantf. 

X  A  gfreat  deal  of  care  is  to  be  taken  to  watch  the  time  of  putting^  in  the  watcr,~if 
It  M  poured  m  too  soon  the  Gravy  will  not  hare  its  true  flavour  and  colour ;έΑΦ fljod  if 
it  be  let  alone  till  the  Meat  sticks  to  the  pan,  it  will  get  a  burnt  taste. 


BROTHS^   GRAVIES,   AMD  SOUPS.  203 

bottom,  (undressed  is  tbe  best,)  aod  two  pounds  of  Beef,  or 
Veal,  a  Carrot,  a  large  Onion,  witb  four  Cloves  stuck  in  it, 
one  head  of  Celery,  a  bundle  of  Parsley,  Lemon-tbyme,  and 
Savoury,  about  as  big  round  as  your  little  finger  when  tied 
close,  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  Basil,  (one  Bay-leaf,  and  a  Shallot, 
if  you  like  it,)  a  piece  of  Lemon-peel,  and  a  dozen  corns  of  All- 
spice +:  pour  on  this  half  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let 
it  simmer  gently  on  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  in  which  time 
it  will  be  almost  dry ;  watch  it  very  carefully,  and  let  it  catch  a 
nice  brown  colour,  turn  the  Me>it,&c.  let  it  brown  oa  all  sides; 
add  three  pints  of  boiling  water!};,  and  boil  for  a  ooupleof  honra. 
It  is  now  Rich  Gravy,    To  convert  it  into 

CuUis^  or  Tliickened  Gravy.  (No.  189,) 

To  a  quart  of  Gravy, put  a  tablespoonful  of  TfdckeningX^o, 
d57,)  or  from  one  to  two  tablespoonsfol  of  Flour  according  to 
the  thickness  yon  wish  the  Gravy  to  be,  into  a  basin,  with  a  la- 
dled! of  tbe  Gravy ;  stir  it  quick ;  add  the  rest  by  degrees, 
till  it  is  aU  welt  mixed  ;  then  poor  it  back  into  a  stewpan,  and 
leave  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer, 
that  the  Thickening  may  thoroughly  incorporate  with  the  Gra- 
vy, the  stewpan  being  on^  half  covered,  sdrring  it  every  now 
and  then  ^ έΑΦ a  sort  of  scum  will  gather  on  the  top,  which  it  is 
best  not  to  take  off  till  you  are  ready  to  strain  it  through  a 
iammis.┬π 

Take  care  it  is  neither  too  pale  nor  too  dark  a  colour  ;  if  it 
is  not  Thick  enough^  let  it  stew  longer,  till  it  is  reduced  to  the 
desired  thickness  ;  or  add  a  bit  of  glaze  or  Portable  Soup  to  it, 
see  (No.' 952) :  if  it  is  too  TAicA;,you  can  thin  it  with  a  spoon- 
ful or  two  of  warm  broth,or  water.  When  your  sauce  is  done, 
stir  it  in  tbe  basin  you  put  it  into  once  or  twice,  while  it  is  cool- 
ing. 

Veal  Broth.  (No.  191.) 

A  knuckle  of  Veal  is  best ;  manage  it  as  directed  in  the  re* 
ceipt  for  Beef  Broth  (No.  185*,)   only  take  care  not  to  let  it 

t  Trafflet,More11s  and  Musbroomi,  Catiupt  and  Wiaet,  &c,  are  added  by  theie 
who  are  for  the.estseme  taiHaut  έΓυina┬╗ 

%  The  general  rule  is  to  put  in  about  a  Pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat,  if  it  only 
έΨιimiBen  very  i;:ently. 

┬π  k  TamtnU  it  a  wonted  elotb,  sold  at  tbe  oil  tbopt,  made  on  purpowfbr  itmininf 
έΑλaueet,  tbe  be┬τt  way  of  using  it  U  for  two  people  to  twift  it  eontnry  way* :  this  it  έΑλ 
mncb  better  way  of  itrainins  Nuioe  tban  tbioi^iba  Sievct  ttd  xeaae*  it  mucb  more 
completely. 


204  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,   AND  SOUPS. 

oatch  any  colour,  as  this  and  the  foHowing  and  richer  prepara- 
tioos  of  Veal,  is  chiefly  used  for  White  Soups,  Sauce^  &c. 
To  make  White  Sauce,  see  (No.  964*.) 

Veal  Gravy.  (No.  192.) 

About  three  pounds  of  the  nut  of  the  Leg  of  Veal,  cut  into 
half  pound  slices,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Ham  in  small 
dice ;  proceed  as  directed  for  the  Beef  Gravy  (No.  186,)  but 
watch  the  time  of  putting  in  the  water ;  if  this  is  poured  in  too 
soon,  the  gravy  will  not  have  its  true  flavour, έΑΦ ^if  itbe  let  alooe 
till  the  meat  sticks  too  much  to  the  pandit  will  catch  too  brown 
a  Colour. 

MCnudde  of  Vbal,  or  Shin  or  Leg  of  Beef,  Soup.  (No.  103.) 

A  Knuckle  of  Veal,  of  six  pounds  weight,  will  make  a  large 
tureen  of  excellent  Soup,  and  is  thus  easily  prepared  : έΑΦ Cut 
half  a  pound  of  Bacon  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick,  lay 
it  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle,  or  deep  stewpan,  and  oq  (bis 
place  the  knuckle  of  veaV,  having  first  chopped  the  bone  in  two 
or  three  places,έΑΦ- furnish  it  with  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  a 
head  of  celery,  two  large  onions,  with  two  or  three  cloves  stuck 
in  one  of  them,  a  dozen  of  corns  of  Black,  and  the  samo  of 
Jamaica  pepper,and  a  good  bundle  of  lemon  thyme,  winter  sa- 
voury, and  parsley; έΑΦ Just  cover  the  meat  with  cold  water,  and 
set  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  is  boils ;  having  skimmed  it  well, 
remove  your  soup  kettle  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  let  it  stew  very 
gently  till  it  is  quite  tender,  i.  e.  about  four  hours ;  then  take 
out  the  bacon  and  veal,  strain  the  soup,  and  set  it  by  in  a  cool 
place  till  you  want  it,  when  you  must  take  off  the  fat  from  (be 
surface  of  your  liquor,  and  decant  it  (keeping  back  the  settlings 
at  the  bottom)  into  a  clean  pan. 

If  you  like  a  Thickened  Soup,  put  three  tablespoonsfu)  of 
the  fat  you  have  taken  off  the  soup,  into  a  small  stewpan,  and 
mix  it  with  four  tablespoonsfu  1  of  flour,  pour  a  ladleful  of  soup 
to  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  rest  by  degrees,  and  boil  it  up  till  it  is 
amooth. 

Cut  the  Meat  and  Gristle  of  the  Ko\ickIe  and  the  Bacon 
into  mouthfuls,  and  put  them  into  the  Soup,  and  let  ihem  get 
warm. 

06s.έΑΦ -You  may  make  this  more  savoury  by  adding  Catsup 
(No.  43Q,)  &c.  Shin  of  Beep  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
way  ;  see  Knuckle  op  Veal  stewed  with   Rice  (No.  523.) 


BROTHS,    GRAVIES,   AND   SOUPS.  205 

Mutton  Broth.  (No.  194.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  Scrag  of  Mutton  ;  to  take  ibe  blood  out┬╗ 
put  it  into  a  Slewpan,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water ;  wben  the 
water  becomes  xQilk-warm,  pour  it  off,  skim  it  well,  then  put  it 
in  again,  with  four  or  five  pints  of  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  tablespoonful  of  best  grits,  and  an  Onion ;  set  it  on  a  slow 
fire,  and  when  yon  have  taken  all  the  scum  off,  put  in  two  or 
three  turnips,  let  it  simmer  very  slowly  for  two  hours,  and  strain 
it  through  a  clean  sieve. 

This  usual  method  of  making  Mutton  Broth  with  the  Scrags 
is  by  no  means  the  most  Economical  method  of  obtaining  it ; 
for  which  see  (Nos.  490  and  564.) 

Obs. έΑΦ ^Yoii  may  thicken  Broth,  by  boiling  with  it  a  little 
Oatmeal,  Rice,  Scotch  or  Pearl  Barley  ;  when  you  make  it 
for  a  sick  person,  read  the  Obs,  on  Broths,  &c.  in  the  last  page 
of  the  7th  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery  ;  and  (No. 
564.) 

Jffock  Mutton  Broth  vnthout  Meat,  in  Five  Minutes.     (No. 

195.) 

Boil  a  few  leaves  of  Parsley  with  two  teaspoonsful  of  Mush- 
room^ Catsup,  in  three  quartern  of  a  pint  pf  very  thin  Gruel 
(No.572),  season  with  a  little  salt. 

Ob&. έΑΦ This  is  improved  by  a  few  drops  of  Shallot  Wine 
(No.  402,)  and  the  same  o(  Essence  of  Sweet  Herbs  (No.  419.) 
See  also  Portable  Soup  (No.  252.) 

The  Queen^s  morning  Bouillon  de  Saw/^έΑΦ .(No.  196.) 

Sir  Kenelm  Digby,  in  bis  **  Chset  of  Cookery,'^  informs  us, 
was  made  with  a  **  Brawny  Hen,  or  young  Cock,  a  handfull  of 
parsley,  one  sprig  of  thyme,  three  of  spearmint,  a  little  balm, 
balf  a  great  onion,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  clove,  with 
as  much  water  as  will  cover  them  ;  and  this  boiled  to  less  tha# 
a  Pint,  for  one  good  porringerful. 

Ox'heelJelhj.  (No.  198,) 

Slit  them  in  two,  and  take  away  the  fat  between  the  claws. 
The  proportion  of  water  to  each  Heel  is  about  a  quart; έΑΦ let  it 

t  By  this  method .  it  is  said,  an  ingenious  Cook  long  deceived  a  large  famity.who 
^ere  a H  fend  of  weak  Mutton  broth.έΑΦ M┬τ#Aroom  Gravy,  orCattttp  (Vo,  439,)  ap- 
proach'-s  thf  natuVc  and  flavour  of  Meat  Gravy,  more  than  any  Vegetabte  Juice, 
and  is  i>>e  best  substitute  for  ┬╗t  in  Meagf┬╗-e  Sou^s  anA  extemportt  Saucet,  that  Culi- 
nary Chemistry  has  yei  produced. 

18 


206  BROTHS)  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

simmer  gently  for  eight  hours,  (keeping  it  clean  skimmed^  it 
will  make  a  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  Jelly,  which  is  frequently 
used  to  make  Calves*  feet  Jelly  (No.  481,)  or  to  add  to  Mock 
Turtle,  and  other  Soups.  See  (No.  340*).  This  Jelly  evap- 
orated as  directed  in  (No.  352,)  will  give  about  three  oonces 
and  a  half  of  strong  tilaze, έΑΦ an  unboiled  Heel  costs  one  shil- 
ling and  three  pence ;  so  this  glaze,  which  is  very  inferior  in 
Havour  to  (No.  353,)  is  quite  as  expensive  as  that  is. 

N.  B.  To  dress  the  Heels,  see  (No.  18*). 

06s. έΑΦ Get  a  Heel  that  has  only  been  scalded,  not  ooo  of 
those  usually  sold  at  the  Tripe  shops,  which  have  been  hailed 
all  almost  all  the  Gelatine  is  extracted. 

Clear  Gravt  Soups.  (No.  300.) 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  Ham  into  slices,  and  lay  them  at  the 
bottom  of  a  large  stewpan,  or  stockpot,  with  two  or  three 
pounds  of  lean  Beef,  and  as  much  Veal ;έΑΦ break  the  bpnes  and 
lay  them  on  the  meat,  take  off  the  outer  skin  of  two  laige 
Onions,  and  two  Turnips,  wash,  dean  and  cut  into  pieces  a 
couple  of  large  Carrots,  and  two  heads  of  Celery;  and  put  in 
three  Cloves  and  a  large  blade  of  Mace:έΑΦ cover  ibestewpan 
close,  and  set  it  over  a  smart  fire ; έΑΦ when  the  meat  begins  to 
s(ick  to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  turn  it,  and  when  there  is  a 
nice  brown  glaze  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  cover  the  meat 
with  hot  water: έΑΦ watch  it,  and  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil, 
put  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  take  off  the  scum,  then  put  in 
half  a  pint  more  cold  water,  and  skim  it  aig;ain,  and  continue  to 
do  so  till  no  more  scum  rises. έΑΦ Now  set  it  on  one  side  of  the 
fire,  to  boil  gently  for  about  four  hours, έΑΦ strain  it  through  a 
clean  iammis,  or  napkin,  (do  not  squeeze  it,  or  the  Soup  will 
be  thick,)  into  a  clean  Stone  pan,  let  it  remain  till  it  is  cold, 
and  then  remove  all  the  Fat; έΑΦ when  you  decant  it,  be  careful 
^ot  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottbm  of  the  pan. 

The  Broth  should  he  of  a  fine  Amber  colour^  and  as  dear  as 
Rock  WaJter  ; έΑΦ if  it  is  not  so  bright  as  you  wish  it,  put  it  into 
a  stewpan, έΑΦ break  two  whites  and  shells  of  Eggs  into  a  basin, 
beat  them  well  together,  put  them  into  the  Soup,  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a  whisk  till  it  boils, έΑΦ then  set  it  on 
one  side  of  the  fire,  to  setde  for  ten  minutes,  run  it  through  a 
fine  napkin  into  a  basin,  and  it  is  ftody. 

However,  if  your  Broth  is  carefully  skimmed^  Sfc  accord- 
ing to  the  directions  above  given,  it  will  be  clear  enough  without 


:broths,  gravies,  ahd  soops.  207 

clarifying  J  which  process  impairs  the  flaroar  oC  il, έΑΦ in  a  higher 
proportioQ  than  it  improves  ltd  appearance. 

Oba. έΑΦ ^This  is  the  Basis  of  almost  all  Gravy  Soaps,  which  are  called 
by  the  name  of  the  Yeg^tables  that  are  put  into  them. 

Cabrots, έΑΦ TvitJuiTSi έΑΦ Onioks^ έΑΦ CxLKKY, έΑΦ and  a  few  leaves  of 
Chervil,  make  wha^  is  called  Sprijio  Soup,  or  Soup  Sarts'  ',  to  this 
a  pint  of  Grxxn  Pe^x,  or  Asparagus  Psasi,  or  French  Beans  cut 
into  pieces,  or  a  cabbage  lettuce,  are  an  improvement. 

IVith  Bicx,έΑΦ or  Scotch  Barlbv, έΑΦ ^with  MAC0AR0in,-*┬τr  Vermi- 
esiiJ, έΑΦ or  CEI.KRT,  cut  into  lengths ;  it  will  be  the  Soup  usually  cal- 
led by  those  names. 

Or  Turnips  scooped  round,  or  young  Onions,  will  give  you  a  clear 
Turnip,  or  Onion  ^oup,  and  sjl  these  vegetables  mixed  together, 
Soup  Caxssi. 

The  Gravt  for  all  these  Soups  may  be  produced  extempore  with 
(No.  252.) 

The  Boots  and  Vegetables  you  use,  must  be  boiled  first  or  they  will 
impregnate  the  soup  with  too  strong  a  flavour. 

Tke  Seaaoningfor  all  these  Soupt  is  the  sfime,  viz.  Salt,  and  a  yery 
little  Cayenne  pepper. 

19.  B.  To  make  excellent  Vegetdbk  Gravy  Soup  for  4^d.  a  quart, 
see  No.  224. 

Scotch  Ballet  Broth, έΑΦ A  Good  and  Substantial  Dinne.r 

for  5d.  per  Head.  (No.  204.) 

Wash  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Scotch  Barley  in  a  little 
oold  water,  put  it  in  a  soup  pot  with  a  Shin  or  Leg  of  Beef^  or 
s&  Knuckle  of  Veal  of  about  ten  pounds  weight,  sawed  into  four 
pieces,  (tell  the  Butcher  to  do  this  for  you,)  cover  it  well  with 
cold  water,  set  it  on  the  fire ;  when  it  Boils  skim  it  very  clean 
and  put  in  two  Onions  of  about  three  ounces  weight  each,  set 
it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently  about  two  hours ; 
then  skim  ail  the  fat  clean  off,  and  put  in  two  heads  of  Celery, 
and  a  large  Turnip  cut  into  small  squares,  season  it  with  salt, 
and  let  it  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer,  and  it  is  ready  :  take 
out  the  meat  (carefully  with  a  slice,  and  cover  it  up  and  set  it 
by  the  fire  to  keep  warm  ;)  and  scum  the  Broth  well  before 
you  put  it  into  the  Tureen. 

Shiaof  BeefoflOlb.    .    .    .    .  ' 2  6 

Ipoand Barley 0  4} 

aOtuoasof  aI)o┬τt3oz.wt.caeh 0  o| 

Celery 01 

A  latge  Turnip έΑλ o  1-έΑΦ ^.#  it(. 

Thus  you  get  four  quarts  of  Good  Soup  at  9|d.  pef^  Quart, 
besides  another  quart  to  make  sauce  for  the  Meat,  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner  :^- 


203  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  A&^I)   SOUPS. 

Put  a  quart  of  the  Soup  into  a  basin, έΑΦ put  about  an  ounce 
of  Flour  into  a  stewpan,  and  pour  the  Broth  to  it  by  degrees, 
stirring  it  well  together,  set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  it  till  it  boils, 
έΑΦ then  (sonoeput  in  a  glasd  of  Port  wine  or  Muahrooxn  Catsup 
No.  439,)  let  it  boil  up  and  it  is  ready. 

Put  the  Meat  in  a  Ragout  disb,  and  strain  the  Saare  through 
a  sieve  over  the  Meat,  you  may  put  to  it  some  Capers,  or  mia- 
ced  Gherkioa  or  Walnuts,  &c. 

If  the  beef  has  been  slewed  wiih 'proper  care  in  a  very  gejiUe 
manner^  and  be  taken  up  at  "  the  critical  tnoment  when  it  is 
just  tender,''  you  will  obtain  excellent  and  Savoury  Meat  for 
Eight  People  for  Five  Pence,  i,  e.  for  only  the  eoat  of  the 
glass  of  Port  wine. 

If  you  use  Veal  cover  the  Meat  with  (No.  364,  No.  2.) 

Soup .*...31 

Wine    έΑλ έΑλ    5 8*.  έΑλ* 


06s. έΑΦ This  is  a  most  Frugal,  Agreeable,  and  Nutritive 
Meal, έΑΦ it  will  neither  lighten  the  Purse,  nor  lay  heavy  oo  the 
Stomach,  and  will  furnish  a  plentiful  and  pleasant  Soup  and 
Meat  for  eight  persons.  So  you  may  give  a  good  Dinner  for 
bdper  Head,     See  also  (No.  229  and  No.  239.) 

N.  B.  If  you  will  draw  your  Purse  strings  a  little  wider, έΑΦ 
and  allow  \cL  per  head  more, έΑΦ and  prepare  a  pint  of  young 
Onions  as  directed  in  (No.  296,)  and  garnish  tl^e  dish  with 
them,  or  some  Carrots,  or  Turnips  cut  into  sauares, έΑΦ for  6d. 
per^Head  yoM  will  have  as  good  a  Ragout  as  le  Cuisinier  Im- 
perial de  France  can  give  you  for  as  many  billing?.  Read 
Oks.  to  No.  193. 

You  may  vary  the  flavour  by  adding  a  litttle  Curry  Powder 
f  No.  455,)  Ragout  (No.  457,)  &c.  or  any  of  the  Store  Sau- 
ces, and  Flavouring  Essences,  between  (Nos.  396  and  463,; 
and  you  may  garnish  the  dish  with  split  pickled  mangoes,  Wal- 
nuts, Gherkins,  Onions,  &c.  See  Wow  Wow  Sauce  (No.  328.) 

If  it  is  made  the  evening  before  the  Soup  is  wanted,  and  suf- 
fered to  stand  till  it  is  cold,  much  Fat-\-  may  be  removed  from 
the  surface  of  the  Soup,  which  is,  when  clarified  (No.  83,)  use- 
ful for  all  the  purposes,  that   Drippings  are  applied  to. 

t;See**  L^Art  de  r┬τt jfnicr,"  par  A.  Benuvillier.  έΑλέΑλ  I  hare  learned  bTCxpcricnee, 
that,  of  all  the  fats  thatnre  used  for  frying,  f/u?  Pot  Top  which  is  taken  from  tbe&or* 
face  of  the  Broth  and  Stock-Pot  is  by  far  the  best." 


BROTHS,    GRAVIES,   AKD   SOLP.-. 


┬╗'έΑλ'┬τ 


fj^  See  A]p]pendijfy  I.  for  making  three  kinds  of  S.o.:/:  S^  ^r. 

Scotch  Leek  Soup,  (No.  2  J3.y 

You  may  make  this  Soup  to  most  advantage  4he  day  aftef  a 
joint  of  Meat  has  been  boiled,  by  potting  the  liquor  the  nieat 
has  been  boiled  in,  into  a  soup  pot,  with  four  Iprge  Leeks  cot 
into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  boil 
elowly  for  an  hour,  then  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Oatmeal 
^ith  half  a┬τpint  of  cold  water,  till  it  is  quite  smooth  ;  pour  this 
into  the  soup,  let  it  simmer  gently  half  an  hour  longer,  and  send 
it  up  hot 

Scotch  Brosb,  or  GRdwDiE.       (No.  205*.) 

^*  This  favourite  Scotch  dish  is  generally  made  with  the  li- 
quor meat  Las  been  boiled  in. 

'*  Put  half  a  pint  of  Oatmeal  into  a  porringer,  with  a  little 
salt,  if  there  be  not  enough  in  the  broth, έΑΦ of  which,  add  as 
much  as  will  mix  it  to  the  consistence  of  hasty-pudding,  or  a 
Utile  thicker, έΑΦ lasdy,  take  a  little  of  the  fat  that  swims  on  the 
broth,  and  put  it  on  the  Crowdie,  and  eat  it  in  the  same  way  as 
hasty  pudding." 

068. έΑΦ This  Scotsman's  dish,  is  easily  prepared,  at  very  little 
expense,  and  is  pleasant  tasted  and  nutritious.  To  dress  a 
Hagoies^  see  (No.  488*,)  and  Minced  Collops  following  it* 

2^,  B.  For  various  methods  of  making^and  flavouring  Oat┬τ* 
MEAL  Gruel,  see  (No.  572.) 

Carrot  Soup.  (No.  212.) 

Scrape  and  wash  half  a  dozen  large  Carrots,  peel  ofF  the  red 
outside  (which  is  the  ooly  part  that  should  be  used  for  this 
soup ;)  put  it  into  a  gallon  stewpan,  with  one  head  of  CeUry, 
and  an  Onion,  cut  into  thin  pieces  ;  take  two  quarts  of  Beef, 
Yeal,  or  Mutton  broth,  or  if  you  have  any  cold  Roast  Beef 
Bones,  (or  liquor,  in  which  Mutton  or  Beef  has  been  boiled,-) 
you  may  make  very  good  broth  for  this  soup  ; έΑΦ when  you 
have  put  the  broth  to  the  roots,  cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  set 
it  on  a  slow  stove  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  when  the  Carrots 
will  be  soft  enough,  (some  Cooks  put  in  a  Teacupful  of  Bread- 
crumbs,  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,)  rub  it  through  a  tarn- 
mis,  or  hair  sieve,  with  a  wooden  ispooo,  and  add  as  much  broth 
as  will  make  it  a  proper  thickness,  i.  e.  almost  as  thick  as  pease 
soup  :  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  make  it  hot,  season  it  with  a 
little  salt,  and  send  it  up  with  some  toasted  bread  <:ut  inta 
18* 


310  BROTHS,  6KAVIE8,  AND  SOUPS. 

pieoeiy  half  ┬τn  iach  sautre.    Some  put  it  ioto  tba  soap ;  but 
the  best  way  is  to  send  it  up  oo  a  plate,  as  a  side  disb. 

Oi┬τ.^Thit  U  neither  expensire  nor  troublefome  to  prepare ; έΑΦ in 
the  Kiteheni  of  tome  opulent  ┬μpicttres,  to  nake  thli  Soup  make  a  lit- 
tle stronger  impression  on  the  gustatoiy  Organs  of  Grandi  Goiir* 
mandt,  the  Celenr  and  Onions  are  sliced,  and  fried  in  Batter  of  a 
li^ht  brown,  the  Soap  h  poured  into-tbe  Stewpaa  to  them,  ami  all  is 
boiled  op  together  :--but  this  must  be  done  very  carefulljr  with  Bolter 
or  rery  nicely  clarified  fat ;  and  the  Grand  Cuinnier  adds  apices,  &e. 
md  libUum. 

Tier  nip  and  Parsnip  Soups,        (No.  213.) 

Aie  flisde  ia  the  same  manoer  as  the  Carrot  soup  above. 

Cdery  Soup.  (Na  314.) 

Split  half  a  dozen  heads  of  Celery  into  slips  abost  two 
inches  long,  wash  them  well,  lay  them  on  a  hair  siere  to  drain^ 
and  put  them  ioto  three  quarts  of  (No. .200)  in  a  gallon  soup- 
pot  ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  stew  very  gently  till  the 
celery  is  tender ;  (this  will  take  about  an  hour.)  If  any  scam 
rises,  take  it  off,  season  with  a  little  salt. 

0&8.--*When  Celery  cannot  be  procured,  Half  a  Drachm  of 
the  Seed,  pounded  fine,  which  may  be  considered  as  the  BSa- 
sence  of  Celery,  and  costs  only  one-third  of  a  farthing,  and  can 
be  had  at  any  season,  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the 
soup  is  done,  will  give  as  much  flavour  to  half  a  gallon  of  Soup, 
as  two  heads  of  Celery  weighing  seven  ounces  and  costing  2d. ; 
or  add  a  little  Essence  of  Celery  (No.  409.) 

Green  Pease  Soup.  (No.  216.) 

A  peck  of  Pease  will  make  you  a  good  tureen  of  Soup, έΑΦ ^io 
shelling  them  put  the  old  ones  in  one  Basin,  and  the  yoaog 
ones  in  another, έΑΦ and  keep  out  a  pint  of  them,  and  boil  them 
separately  to  put  ioto  your  Soup  when  it  is  finished  ;  put  a 
large  saucepan  on  the  fire  half  full  of  water, έΑΦ when  it  boils,  put 
the  Pease  in,  with  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  them  boil  till  they  are 
done  enough,  i.  e.  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  according  to 
their  age  and  size,  then  drain  them  in  a  cullender,  and  put 
them  into  a  clean  gallon  stewpan,  and  three  quarts  of  plain 
Veal  or  Mutton  Broth  (drawn  from  meat  without  any  Spices  or 
Herbs,  Ssc,  which  would  overpower  the  flavour  of  the  Soup,) 
cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  to  stew 
gentiy  for  an  hour;  add  a  teacupful  of  bread-crumbs,  and  then 
rub  it  through  a  tammis  ioto  another  stewpan,  stir  it  with  a 
wooden  spooo,  and  if  it  is  too  thick,  add  a  liule  more  broth  ; 


B&OTHS,  oAAVISS,  AHD  SOUPS.  211 

hare  ready  boiled,  as  for  eating,  a  pint  of  yo!iii|  peaae,  aad  pot 
tbem  into  the  soap  ;  season  w^tb  a  little  salt  aad  tQ|ar. 

N.  B.  Some  Cooks,  while  this  Soup  is .  going  on,  slice  a 
couple  of  Cocambers,  (as  you  would  for  eating  ;)  take  oot  the 
seeds,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain,  and  then  flour  them,  and 
fry  them  A  hgbt  brown  in  a  little  butter ;  put  them  into  the 
soup  the  last  thing  before  it  goes  to  table. 

06s. έΑΦ ^If  the  Soup  is  not  Green  enough,  pound  a  handful  of 
Pea-huUs  or  Spinage,aod  squeeee  the  juice  through  a  cloth  in┬τ 
to  the  soup ;  some  leaves  of  mint  may  be  added,  if  approTed. 

Plmn  Chreen  Pease  Soup^  wUhmU  Meat.     (No.  217.) 

Take  a  quart  of  Green  Pease,  (keep  one  half  a  pint  of  the 
youog^,  boil  them  separately,  and  put  them  in  the  Soup  when 
it  is  finished,)  put  them  on  in  boiling  water,  boil  them  tender,, 
apd  then  pour  off  (he  water,,  and  set  it  by  to  make  the  Soup 
with  ;  put  tbe  p^se  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  them  to  a  masb┬╗ 
Then  put  tbem  in  two  quarts  of  the  water  you  boiled  the  pease 
in,  stir  all  well  together,  let  it  boil  up  for  about  fire  minutes,, 
and  then  rub  it  through  s  hair  sieve  or  tammis ;  if  the  pease 
are  good,  it  will  be  as  thick  and  fine  a  vegetable  soup  as  need 
be  sent  to  Table. 

Pease  Soup.  (No.  218.) 

Tbe  common  way  of  making  Pease  Soup  ┬π  is, έΑΦ to  a  Quart 
of  Split  Pease  put  three  quarts  of  cold  soft  water,  not  more,  (or 
it  will  be  what  "  jack  ros-bif''  calb  **  Soup  Maigre^^)  not- 
withstaodiog  Mother  Glaese  orders  a  gallon,  (and  her  Lady- 
ship*B  (firections  have  been  copied  by  almoat  every  Cookery 
book-maker,  whe  has  strung  Receipts  together  since),  with  half 
a  pound  of  Bacon,  (not  very  fat)/or  Roast  beef  bones,  or  four 
Anchovies ;  or,  instead  of  tbe  water,  three  quarts  of  tbe  Liquor 
in  which  Beef^  Mutton,  Pork  or  Poultry  has  been  boiled,  tast- 
ing it  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  not  too  saltf. 

Wash  two  heads  of  Celery:};,  cut  it;  and  put  it  in,  with  two 

$  To  make  Fea┬τe  Pottage┬τ  double  the  quantity.  Those  who  often  make  Peue 
Soup┬τ┬τhoald  have  a  Mill,  unA  grind  the  Peute^  just  before  they  dscts  themέΑΦ a  l4;ss 
quantity  will  sufiSce,  and  the  soup  will  be  much  soober  made. 

t  If  the  Liquor  is  very  saltf  the  pease  will  never  boil  tender.  Therefore,  when 
you  make  Pease  Soup  with  the  liquor  in  vhieh tattedlPoTk  or  Beef  has  been  boiled, 
tie  up  the  peasct  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  theni  first  fbr  an  hoar  in  soft  waier. 

t  Haifa  draekm  tf  Celery  Seed  pounded  fine,  and  put  into  the  Soup  a  quarter  of 
┬τB  houc  belbie  it  it  finished,  will  navour  thcee  (quarts. 


212  BROtltS,    GAAVIES,   AN1>  SOUPS. 

Onions  peeled,  and  a  sprig  of  Savory,  or  swek  Mtirjoram,  or 
Lemon-Tbyme ;  set  it  on  tlie  trivet>  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  it  every  quarter  of  an  hoar  (to 
keep  the  pease  from*sCicki ng-  to  and  burning  at  tbe  bottom  of 
the  Soup-pot),  till  tbe  Pease  are  tender,  which  will  be  in  about 
three  hours ; έΑΦ ^some  Cooks  slice  a  head  of  Celery,  alod  half  an 
ounce  of  Onions,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter,  and  put  them 
into  tbe  Soup,  till  they  are  lightly  browned,  then  work  the  whole 
through  a  coarse  hair  sieve,  and  then  through  a  fine  siete,  or 
(what  is  better)  through  a  tammis,  with  the  back  of  a  woodea 
spoon; έΑΦ put  it  into  a  clean  etewpan,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
ground  Black  Pepperf,  let  it  boil  iagain  for  ten  minutes,  and. if 
any  fat  arises,  skim  it  off. 

Send  up  on  a  plate.  Toasted  Bread  cut  into  little  pieces  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  square,' or  cut  a  slice  of  bread  (that  has  been 
baked  two  days)  into  dice  not  more  than  half  an  inch  square  ; 
put  half  a  pound  of  clean  drippings  or  lard  into  an  iron  frying-' 
pan ;  when  it  is  hot,  Fily  the  Breao,  take  care  andjturn  it  about 
with  a  slice,  or  by  shaking  of  the  pan  as  it  is  frying,  that  it  may 
be  on  each  side  of  a  delicate  light  brown,  see  (No.  319;)  take 
it  up  with  a  fit^h  slice,  and  lay  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper  to  drain 
the  fat ;  be  careful  that  this  is  done  nicely  :  send  these  up  ia 
one  side  dish,  and  dried  and  powdered  Mint  or  Savory,  or 
Sweet  Marjoram,  &c.  in  another. 

Those  who  are  for  a  double  Relish,  and  are  true  lovers  of 
Haut  Gout,  may  have  some  Bacon  cut  into  small  squares  like 
the  bread,  and  fried  till  it  is  crisp,  or  some  httle  lumps  of  boiled 
pickled  Pork, έΑΦ or  put  Cucumber  fried  into  this  soup,  as  you 
have  directions  in  (No.  216.) 

Obs. έΑΦ The  most  Econdmical  method  of  making  pease  sotp, 
is  to  save  the  bones  of  a  joint  of  Roast  beef,  and  put  them  into 
the  liquor  in  which  Mutton,  or  Beef,  or  Poik  or  Poultry  has 
been  boiled,  and  proceed  as  in  the  above  receipt.  A  hock,  or 
shank  bone  of  Ham,  a  ham  bone,  the  root  of  a  Tongue,  or  a 
red  or  pickled  Herring,  are  favourite  additions  with  some 
Cooks  ;  others  seod  up  Rice,  or  Vermicelli  with  Pease  SoupJ. 

N.  B.  To  make  Pease  Soup  Extempore,  see  (No.  555.) 

+  Some  put  In  dried  Mint  nibbed  to  fine  powder,  but  as  every  body  does  not  like 
Mint.  It  IS  best  to  send  it  up  on  a  plate,  see  Pea  Powder,  (So.  458J  Essence  of  Cele- 
ry, ^No.  409,  and  Xos.  457  and  450.; 

I  Uy  witty  predecessor.  Dr.  Hunter,  ^j┬τ  Culina.  page  97 J.  says,  *έΑλ  If  a  pTOper 
quantity  o:  Curry  powder,  rvo  455,;  be  added  to  pease  soup,  n  ┬τK)d  ┬╗oup  mi^bt  be 
made,  ander  the  title  of  Cwrry  Pease  Soup,  Heliogabalusoffered  rewai-ds  forthedia- 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  213 

If  you  wish  to  m\ke  Soup  the  same  day  tou  Boil  Meat 
OR  Poultry,  prepare  the  pease  the  same  as  for  Pease  Pudding 
(No.  555,)  (to  which  you  may  add  an  onion  and  a  head  of 
celery),  when  you  rub  the  pease  through  the  sieve,  instead  of 
pu  tting  Eggs  and  Butter,  add  some  of  the  liquor  from  the  pot 
to  make  it  a  proper  thickness,  put  it  on  to  boil  for  five  minutes, 
an  d  it  is  ready. 

Obs, έΑΦ This  is  hyfar  the  easiest,  ayid  the  best  way  of  making 
Pease  Soup. 

Pease  Soup  may  be  mctde  savoury  and  agreeable  to  the  pal- 
ate, without  any  Meat,  by  incorporating  two  ounces  of  fresh 
and  nicely  clarified  Beef,  Mutton^- or  Pork  drippings,  see  (No. 
83,)  with  two  ounces  of  Oatmeal,  and  mixing  this  well  into 
the  gallon  of  soup,  made  as  above  directed,  see  also  (No.  22Q.) 

έΑλ  Pease  Soup  and  Pickled  Pork,  (No,  220.) 

A  couple  of  pounds  of  the  belly  part  of  Pickled  Pork  will 
make  very  good  broth  for  Pease  Soup,  if  the  pork  be  not  too 
salt έΑΦ if  it  has  been  in  salt  more  than  two  days,  it  must  be  laid 
i  D  water  the  night  before  it  is  used. 

Put  on  the  ingr^didbts  mentioned  io  (No.  218,')  in  (hfe^ 
quarts  of  water  ;  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  put  in  the 
pork,  and  boil  very  gently  till  it  is  enough  to  e.at έΑΦ ;this  will  ta^e 
about  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours  longer,  according  to  its 
thickness  :  when  done,  wash  the  pork  clean  in  hot  water,  send 
it  up  in  a  dish,  or  cut  it  into  mouthfuls,  and  put  it  into  the  Soup 
in  the  tureen,  with  the  accompaniments  ordered  in  (No.  218). 

Obs, έΑΦ The  meat  being  boiled  no  longer  than  to  be  done 
┬τiiOtigh  to  be  eaten,  you  get  excellent  Soup,  imlhout  any  ex- 
p  ense  ef  Meat  destroyed. 

Plain  Pease  Soup.  (No.  221.) 

To  a  Quart  of  Split  Pease,  and  two  heads  of  Celery,  (and 
most  Cooks  would  put  a  large  Onion,)  put  three  quarts  of  Broth 
or  soft  water  ;  let  them  simmer  gently  on  a  trivet  over  a  slow' 
fire  for  three  hours,  (stirring  up  every  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
prevent  the  pease  burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  soup  kettleέΑΦ- if 

covery  of  a  new  dish,  and  the  British  Parliainent  have  gtren  notoriety  to  inventions 
of  much  less  importance  than  *  Curry  Pease  Sonp.*  **  - 

N.  B.  Celery ,  or  Carrots,  or  Turnips,  shredded  or  cat  in  squares,  (or  Scotch  Bar- 
ley, ia  the  latter  case  the  soup  must  be  rather  thinner),  or  cut  into  bits  about  an  inch 
longr,  and  boiled  separately,  and  thrown  into  ^^^  tureen  when  the  soup  is  going:  to 
table, will  give  another  agreeablo  Tftriety,  and  maybe<┬╗Ued  Celery  gnd  Peas^ 
Soup.    Read  Obs.  to  (1^0, 21^. 


214  BROTHS,  GIULVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

the  water  IwiU  away  and  the  Soup  gets  too  tVick,  addseme 
boiling  water  to  it)  ;  when  they  are  well  softened,  work  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  then  through  a  fine  sieve  or  a  tam- 
mis,  wash  out  your  stewpan,  and  then  return  the  Soup  into  it, 
and  give  it  aboil  up;  take  off  any  scum  that  comes  op,  and  it 
it  ready.     Prepare  fried  Bread  and  dried  Mint,  as  directed 
in  (No.  S18,)  and  send  thera  op  with  it  on  two  side  dishes. 
0&┬τr-Thi*  *έΑλ  ┬╗┬╗  excellent  F┬τmUy  Soup,  produced  with  rery  little 

Uooblc  or  expense  ; έΑΦ i.  c. 

┬τέΑλ   a. 

Quart  of  Peaae    ...   -   0    8 

.    Two  Heads  of  Celery    --02 

Pepper  and  Salt   -  -    -   -    0    1 

DrwdMinc 0    1 1*.    0 

So  the  Two  QuABTS  cost  One  Shilling  ;  half  a  drachm  of  braised 

C^Ury  Seedf  which  costg  only  one  third  of  a  farthingp,  and  a  little  Su- 

jar,  added  just  before  finUhing  the  Soup,  will  give  it  as  much  flavour 

as  Two  Heads  of  the  freSh  Vegetable. 

Most  of  the  Receipts  for  Pease  Soup,  are  crowded  with  in*^ 
gredients  which  entirely  overpower  the  flavour  of  the  Pease^ 
See  (No.  555.) 

A^ragUs  Soup.  (No.  ^22.) 

This  is  made  with  the  points  of  Asparagus,  in  the  same 
wMMtk^r  aa  tteOreen  Pease  Soup,  (No.  210  or  17,)  is  with 
pease  ;  let  half  the  Asparagus  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and 
the  other  cot  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long,  and  boiled  till  dona 
enough,  and  sent  up  in  the  soirp  ;  to  make  two  quarts,  there 
must  be  a  pint  of  heads  to  thicken  it,  and  half  a  pint  cut  in έΑΦ 
take  care  to  preserve  these  green  and  a  little  crisp.  This  soup 
is  sometimes  made  by  adding  the  Asparagus  haads  tO  common 
Pease  soup. 

Obs. έΑΦ Some  Cooks  fry  half  an  ounce  of  Onion  in  a  little 
butler,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  with  the  other 
ingredients έΑΦ the  haut-gout  of  the  Onion  will  entirely  overcome 
the  delicate  flavour  of  the  Asparagus^  and  we  protest  against 
all  such  combinations. 

MaigrCj  or  Vegetable  Gravy  Soup^.    (No.  324.) 

Put,  in  a  gallon  stewpan,  three  ounces  of  Butter,  set  it  over 
a  slow  fire  ;    while  it  is  melting,  slice  four  ounces  of  Onion  ; 

%  Tlie  t'renah  eall  this  Sw^  Jtfai^eέΑΦ The  Enclidi   aeeeptation  of  wideh  is 
pwrandwdtery,  and  does  not  at  aU  aecord  wfih  the  French,  whieh  i┬╗  Sonps,  &^ 
έΨιMuU  without  meatέΑΦ tho  s,  Turtie,  the  riehett  dith  that  comet  10  an  Englilll  table  T" 
dietwd  without  Meat  QmryJ^i*  a  ptdigre  Difh% 


r^ 


BROTBS,   GBAVli;S,  AKD  SOUPS*  215 

cut  m  small  pieces,  one  Turoip,  one  Carrot,  and  one  bead  of 
Celery^ ;  put  them  in  the  stewpan,  cover  it  close,  \et  it  fry  till 
they  are  bro^raed;  this  will  take  about  25  minutes :  have  rea* 
dy  in  a  saucepan  a  pint  of  Pease,  with  four  quarts  of  water  ; 
when  the  Roots  in  the  stewpan  are  quite  brown,  and  the  pease 
come  to  a  boil,  put  the  pease  and  water  to  them,  pot  it  on  the 
fire  when  it  boils,  scum  it  clean,  and  put  in  a  crust  of  bread 
about  as  big  as  the  top  of  a  twopenny  loaf,  24  berries  of  All- 
spice, the  same  of  Black  Pepper,  and  two  blades  of  Mace-έΑΦ covtr 
ft  closeέΑΦ let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  hour  and  a  half;  then  set 
it  from  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  it  off  very  gently  (so 
as  not  to  disturb  the  sediment  et  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan) 
into  a  large  basin,  let  it  stand  (about  two  hours)  till  it  is  quite 
clear :  while  this  is  doing,  shred  one  large  Turnip,  the  red  part 
of  a  large  Carrot,  three  ounces  of  Onion  minced,  and  one  large 
bead  of  Celery  cut  into  small  bits ;  put  the  Turnips  and  Car- 
rots on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  let  them  boil  ^7e  minutes,  then 
drain  them  on  a  sieveέΑΦ then  pour  off  the  Soup  clear  into  a  stew- 
pan, pot  in  the  Roots,  put  the  Soup  on  the  fire*  let  it  simmer 
gently  tilUfae  herbs  are  tender,  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  sea- 
son it  with  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne,  and  it  is  ready. 

You  may  add  a  tablespoonCiil  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  (No. 
439.) 

Obs. έΑΦ ^Tou  will  have  TTiree  Q^arts  of  Soup,  almost  ai  well  coloured 
and  as  well  ilaToured  as  if  made  with  Gravy  Meat έΑΦ for  It.  1^. 

Carroll   -.---'--   o   i 

Tundpi 0    1 

Celery     ------03 

PeMo 03 

Oniont    ------OOJ 

Batter       ------03 

Spiee,  Sftlt,  Sec    -  -    έΑλ    0    3 U.  Ik 

N.  B.  To  Fry  the  herbs  requires  25  minutes έΑΦ to  BoU  all 
together,  one  hour  and  a  half έΑΦ t^  aettlef  at  the  least  two  hours 
έΑΦ when  clear,'  and  .put  on  the  fire  again,  half  an  hour  or  forty 
minutes. 

Fish  Soups.  (No.  ^W.) 

Eel  Soup. 

To  malce  a  lureenful  take  a  couple  of  middling-sized  Onions, 

cut  them  in  half,  and  cross  your  koife  over  them  two  or  three 

4*rae8 ;  put  two  ounces  of  Butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  it  is 

roeked,  put  in  the  Oqioos,  stir  them  about  till  they  are  lightly. 


\ 


216  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  AND    SOUPS. 

browDed--cut  iato  pieces  three  pounds  of  uaskinned  EelsέΑΦ* 
put  them  ioto  your  stewpan,  and  shake  them  over  the  fire  for 
five  minutes ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  aad  whea 
they  come  to  a  boll,  take  the  scum  ofi*  rery  clean, jbea  put  io  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  green  leaves  (not  dried)  of  winter 
Savory,  the  same  of  Lemon  Thyme,  and  twice  the  quantity  of 
Parsley,  two  drachms  of  Allspice,  the  same  of  Black  Pepper ; 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  thjsa  strain  it 
oS,  and  skim  it  very  clean.     To  Thickbn  it,~  put  three  ounces 
of  Butter  into  a  clean  stew  pan  ;    when   it  is  'melted,  stir  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  of  a- stiff  paste,  then  add  the  liquor 
by  degrees,  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  pass  it  through  a 
3ieve,then  put  your  soup  on  in  a  clean  stewpan,and  havef^ady 
some  little  square  pieces  of  Fish  fried  of  a  nice  light  brown έΑΦ 
either  Eels,  Soles,  Plaiee,  or   Skate  will  do  ;    the  fried  Fish 
should  be  added  about  ten  minutes  before  the  soup  is  served 
up.  Forcemeat  Balls  (Nos.  375, 378,)&c.  are  someumes  added. 
068. έΑΦ Excellent  Fisfi  Soups  may  be  made  with  a  Cod's 
Skull,  Skate,  Flounders,  &c.  boiledin  no  more  water  than  will 
just  cover  them, έΑΦ and  the  liquor  thickened  with  Oatmeal,  &c. 

Cheap  Soups.  (No.^i90 

Among  the  variety  of  schemes  that  have  been  suggested  for  better- 
ing the  condition  of  the  Poor^  a  more  useful  or  extensive  Charity  ean- 
not  be  devised,  than  that  of  instructing  them  in  Economical  Cookery  : 
έΑΦ it  is  one  of  the  most  important  objects  to  which  the  attention  of 
any  real  well-wisher  to  the  public  interest  can  possibly  be  directed. 

The  best  and  cheapest  method  of  making  a  nourishing  Soup έΑΦ is 
least  known  to  those  who  have  most  need  of  it  ;έΑΦ it  will  enable  those 
who  have  small  incomes  and  large  families έΑΦ to  make  the  most  of  the 
little  they  possess,  without  pinching  their  children  of  that  wholesome 
nouiishment  which  is  necessary,  for  the  purpose  of  rearing  them  up 
to  maturity  in  Health  and  Strength. 

The  labouring  classes  seldom  purchase  what  are  called  the  coarser 
pieces  of  meat,  because  they  do  not  know  how  to  dress  them,  but  lay 
out  their  money  in  pieces  for  Roasting,  he.  of  which  the  bones,  &c. 
enhance  the  price  of  the  actual  meat  to  nearly  a  shilling  per  pound, 
and  the  diminution  of  weight  by  Roasting  amounts  to  32  per  cent. 
This,  for  the  sake  of  saving  time,  trouble,  and  fire,  is  generally  sent 
to  an  oven  to  be  baked,  the  nourishing  parts  are  evaporated  and  dried 
up,  its  weight  is  diminished  nearly  one-third,  and  all  that  a  poor 
man  can  afford  to  purchase  with  his  week's  earnings,  perhaps  does 
not  half  satisfy  the  appetites  of  himself  and  family  for  a  couple  of 
days. 

.  If  a  hard-working  man  cannot  get  a  comfortable  meal  at  Home, έΑΦ 
he  soon  finds  the  way  to  thq  Public-house, έΑΦ the  poor  woman  contents 
herself  wjth  Tea  and  Bread  and  Butter,έΑΦ and  the  Children  are  half 
starved. 


BBOTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  217 

Dr.  Kitchiner's  Receipt  to  make  a  cheap,  nutritive,  aad  palatable 
Soap,  fuUy  adequate  to  satisfj  Appetite,  and  support  Strength,  will 
open  a  new  Source  to  those  benevolent  Housekeepers,  who  are  dis- 
posed to  reUeTe  the  poor^ έΑΦ will  show  the  industrious  classes  how 
much  they  have  it  in  their  power  to  assist  themselves,  and  rescue 
them  from  being  dependent  on  the  precarious  bounty  of  others,  by 
^teaching  them  how  they  may  obtain  an  abundant,  salubrious,  and 
asreeaUe  aliment  for  themselves  and  families,  for  One  Pxhmy  Fbb 

^UABT. 

For  various  Economical  SoupB,8ee  QCos.  204, 2d9,  and  40, 224,221, 
and  Obs.  to  (JNTos.  244,  262,)  add  (Nos.  493  and  602.) 

Oht. έΑΦ ^Dripping  intended  for  Soup,  should  be  taken  out  of  the  Pan 
almost  as  soon  as  it  has  dropped  from  the  meat ; έΑΦ If  it  is  not  quite 
dean,  clarify  it.     See  receipt  (No.  83.) 

Dripping  thus  prepared,  is  a  very  different  thing  fkom  that  which 
has  remained  in  the  Dripping-pan  all  the  time  die  meat  has  been 
.  roasting έΑΦ and  perhaps  live  coals  have  dropped  into  it.* 

DisTHiBUTiiTG  Soup,  dotsuot  oMwer  half  to  well  as  teaching  people 
how  to  make  ity  and  improve  their  comfort  at  Homct έΑΦ the  time  lost  in 
waiting  at  the  Soup  House  is  seldom  less  than  three  hours  ;  in  which 
time,  by  any  industrious  occupation,  however  poorly  paid,  they  could 
earn  more  money  than  the  quart  of  Soup  is  worth. 

J)r.  Kitchiner's  Rueipt  to  make  a  Gallon  of  Barley  Broth  for  a 

Groat. 

Put  foi|r  ounces  of  Scotch  Barley  (previously  washed  in  cold  wa- 
ter,) .and  four  ounces  of  sliced  Onions,  into  five  quarts  of  water ; έΑΦ 
boil  gently  for  one  hour,  and  pour  it  into  a  pan,  then  put  into  the 
saucepan  from  one  to  two  ounces  of  clean  Beef  or  Mutton  Drippings, 
or  melted  Suet }  (to  clarify  these,  see  (No.  83,)  or  two  or  three  oun- 
ces of  fat  Bacon  minced  ;)  when  melted,  stir  into  it  four  ounces  of  Oat- 
meal, rub  these  together  till  you  make  a  paste,  (if  this  be  properly 


*  We  copied  the  following  Receipt  from  The  Morning  Post,  Jan- 
uary, 1820:έΑΦ 

Winter  Soup.έΑΦ (No.  227.) 


210lbs.  of  Beef,  fore  quarters. 
901bs.  ofj^egs  of  Beef. 
SBusliels  of  best  Split  Pease. 
1  Bushel  of  Flour. 


12  Bundles  of  Leeks. 
6  Bundles  of  Celery. 
121bs.  of  Salt. 
1  libs,  of  Black  Pepper. 


These  good  ingredients  will  make  1000  quarts  of  nourishing  and 
agreeable  Soup,  at  an  expense  (Establishment  avoided)  of  little  less 
than  2^d.  per  quart. 

Of  this,  2600  quarts  a  day  have  been  delivered  during  the  late  in- 
clement weather,  and  the  cessation  of  ordinary  employment,  at  two 
stations  in  the  parish  of  Bermondsey,  at  one  penny  per  quart,  by 
which  600  families  have  been  daily  assisted^  andat  was  thankfully  re- 
ceived. Such  a  nourishment  and  comfort  could  not  have  been  provi- 
ded by  themselves  separately  for  fourpenc^  a  quart,  if  at  all,  and 
reckoning  little  for  their  fire,  nothing  for  their  time. 
19 


2118  BROTHS,    ORAVIES,   AND  SOUPS. 

managed,  the  whole  of  the  fat  will  combine  with  the  barley  broth, 
and  not  a  particle  appear  on  the  surface  to  offend  the  moit  delicate 
stomach,)  now  add  the  Barley  Broth,  at  first  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  theo 
the  rest  by  degrees,  stirring  it  well  together  till  it  boils. έΑΦ ^To  season 
it,  put  a  drachm  of  finely  pounded  Celery,  έΑλr  Cress  Seed,  (or  half  a. 
drachm  of  each,)  and  a  quarter  of  drachm  of  finely  pounded  Cay- 
enne (No.  404,)  or  a  drachm  and  half  of  ground  Black  Pepper,  or 
Allspice,  into  a  teacup,  and  mix  it  up  with  a  little  of  the  soap,  and 
then  pour  it  into  the  rest,  stir  it  thoioughly  together,  let  it  simmor 
gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour  loi^r,  season  it  with  salt,  and  it  is  ready. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  by  doubling  the  portion  of  Onions,  or 
adding  a  clove  of  Garlic  or  ┬μ8challot,  and  leaving  out  the  Celery 
Seed,  see  (No.  672.) 

This  preparation,  excellent  as  it  is,  would,  without  variety,  soon  be- 
come less  agreeable. 

Nothing  tends  so  much  to  disarm  poverty  of  its  sting,  as  the  means 
of  rendering  a  scanty  pittance  capable  of  yielding  a  comfortable  va- 
riety. 

Change  of  Food  is  lAisolutely  necessary έΑΦ ^not  only  as  a  matter  of 
pleasure  and  comfort,  but  also  of  Health^- rou/ouri  Perdrix  is  a 
true  proverb. 

It  will  be  much  improved,  if,  instead  of  water,  it  be  made  with  the 
liquor  Meat  has  been  boiled  in ;-έΑΦ at  Tripe,  Cow-heel,  and  Cook 
shops,  this  may  be  had  for  little  or  nothing. 

This  Soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  soon  and  easily  made, 
with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm  a  room έΑΦ ^those  who  have 
not  tasted  it,  cannot  imagine  what  a  Savoury  and  Satisfying  Meal  Is 
produced  by  the  combination  of  these  cheap  and  homely  Ingredients. 

If  the  generally  received  opinion  be  true,  that  Animal  and  Vegeta- 
ble foods  afford  nourishment  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  Oil, 
Jelly,  and  IVIucillage  that  can  be  extracted  from  them,  this  Soup  has 
strong  claims  to  the  attention  of  Rational  Economists. 

Cray  Fish  8oup.  (No.  235.) 

This  Soup  is  sometimes  made  with  Beef,  or  Veal  broth, έΑΦ 
or  with  Fish,  in  the  following  manner. 

Take  Flounders,  Eels,  Gudgeons,  Sec,  and  set  them  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water ;  when  it  is  pretty  nigh  boiling,  scum  it 
well,  and  to  three  quarts  put  in  a  couple  of  Onions,  and  as 
many  Carrots  cut  to  pieces,  some  Parsley,  a  dozen  berries  of 
black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  and  about  half  a  hundred  Cray- 
fish ;  take  off  the  small  claws,  and  shells  of  the  tails,  pound 
them  fine,  and  boil  them  with  the  broth  about  an  hour ;  strain 
off,  and  break  in  some  crusts  of  bread  to  thicken  it,  and  if  you 
can  get  it,  the  spawn  of  a  lobster,  pound  it,  and  put  to  rfae 
soup,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  put  in 
your  cray-fish  to  get  hot,  and  the  soup  is  ready. 


BROTHS,    GRAVIES,    ABB  SOUPS.  219 

06┬τ.έΑΦ ^ne  of  my  predecessors  recommends  Cm&T-nsH  poimded 
eUive,  to  nottten  the  sharpneu  ofjhe  BAiod.έΑΦ Vids  Cumxesr^s 
Cookery. 

Un  aes  grands  Homme*  de  Botuhe  de  France  says :  **  Un  6on  C┬τiili┬τ 
d'Ecrevisses  est  le  Paradia  sur  la  ierre,  et  eigne  de  la  table  ies  IHeux  ; 
and  of  all  the  tribe  of  Shell-fish ,  which  our  Industry  and  oar  Senso- 
ality  bring  from  the  bottom  of  the  Sea,  the  River,  or  the  Fond,  the 
Craw-fish  is  incomparably  the  most  useful  and  the  most  delicious." 

Lobster  Soup,  (No.  237.) 

You  must  have  three  iiae  lively  Young  Heo  Lobster?,  and 
boil  them,  see  (No.  176)  ;  wheu  cold,  split  the  tails,  take  out 
the  fish,  crack  the  claws,  aad  cut  the  meat  into  moutbfuls  ; 
take  out  the  coral,  and  soft  part  of  the  body,  bruise  part  of  the 
coral  in  a  mortar,  pick  out  the  fish  from  the  chines,  beat  part 
of  it  with  the  coral,  and  with  this  make  forcemeat  balls,  finely 
flavoured  with  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel.  An- 
chovy add  Cayenne ;  pound  these  with  the  yolk  of  an  Egg. 

Have  three  quarts  of  Veal  Broth  ;  bruise  the  small  legs  and 
the  chine,  and  put  them  into  it,  to  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
strain  it ;  and  then  to  thicken  it,  take  the  live  spawn  and  bruise 
it  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  Butter  and  Flour,  rub  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  it  tofthe  soup  with  the  meat  of  the  lobsters,  and 
the  remaining  coral ;  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  ten  minutes ; 
do  not  let  it  boil,  or  its  fine  red  colour  will  immediately  fade ; 
turn  it  into  a  tureen,  add  the  juice  of  a  good  lemoD,  and  a  lit* 
tie  Essence  of  Anchovy. 

Soup  and  BouUli.     (No.  238.)έΑΦ See  also  (No.  5.) 

The  best  parts  for  this  purpose,  are  the  Leg  or  Shin,  or  a 
piece  of  the  middle  of  a  Brisket  of  Beef,  of  about  seven  or 
eight  pounds  weight;  lay  it  on  a  fish  drainer,  or  when  you 
take  it  up,  put  a  slice  under  it,  which  will  enable  you  to  place 
it  on  the  dish  entire ;  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  or  deep  stewpan, 
with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  a  quart  over,  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire  to  get  the  scum  up,  which  remove  as  it  rises  ;  then 
put  in  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  leeks,  or  two  large  onions, 
two  heads  of  celery,  two  or  three  cloves,  and  a  faggot  of  pars* 
ley  and  sweet  herbs  ;  set  the  pot  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  sim- 
mer very  gently,  till  the  meat  is  just  tender  enough  to  eat ; 
this  will  require  about  four  or  five  hours. 

Put  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  large  onion,  and  a  head  or 
two  of  celery,  into  the  soup  whole, έΑΦ take  them  out  as  soon  as 


230         BEOTHS,  GRAVIES,  AUD   SOUPS┬τ 

they  are  done  enough,  lay  them  on  a  dish  till  they  are  cold, 
then  cot  them  into  small  squares : έΑΦ when  the  Beef  is  done, 
take  it  out  carefully, έΑΦ to  dish  it  up,  see  (No.  204,  or  403,) 
strain  the  Soup  through  a  bair  sieve  into  a  clean  stewpan,  take 
off  the  Fat,  and  put  the  Vegetables  that  are  cut  into  tbe  Soup, 
the  flayour  of  which  you  may  heighten,  by  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  of  mushroom  catsup. 

If  a  Thickened  Soup  is  preferred,  take  four  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  clear  Fat  from  the  top  of  the  pot,  and  four 
spoonfuls  of  Flour ;  mix  it  smooth  together,  tbevi  by  degrees 
stir  it  well  into  the  soup,  which  simmer  for  ten  minutes  longer 
at  least, έΑΦ -skim  it  well  and  pass  it  through  a  tammis,  or  fine 
sieve,  and  add  the  Vegetables  and  seasoning  the  same  as  direct- 
ed in  the  clear  soup. 

Keep  the  Beef  hot,  and  send  it  up  (as  a  remove  to  the  Soup) 
with  finely  chopped  Parsley  sprinkled  on  tbe  top,  and  a  Sauce- 
boat  of  (No.  328.) 

Ox'Head  Soup,  (No.  239.) 

Should  be  prepared  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  as  you 
cannot  cut  the  meat  off  the  head  into  neat  mouthfuls  unless  it  is 
cold  ; έΑΦ therefore,  the  day  before  you  want  this  Soup,  put  half 
an  Ox  Cheek  into  a  tub  of  cold  water  to  soak  for  a  couple  of 
hours,  then  break  the  bones  that  have  not  been  broken  at  the 
butcher's,  and  wash  it  very  well  in  warm  water;  put  it  into  a 
pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water  ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  very 
clean,  and  then  put  in  one  head  of  celery,  a  couple  of  carrots,  a 
turnip,  two  large  onions,   two  dozen  berries  of  black  pepper, 
same  of  allspice,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  such  as  marjo- 
ram, lemon-thyme,  savory,  and  a  handful  of  parsley ;  cover  the 
soup-pot  close,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire;  take  off  the   scum, 
which  will  rise  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  and  set  it  by  the 
fire-side  to  stew  very  gently  for  about  three  hours  ;  take  out  the 
head,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  pour  the  soup  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a 
stoneware  pan,  and  set  it  and  the  head  by  in  a  cool  place  till 
the  next  day ; έΑΦ then,  out  the  meat  into  neat  mouthfuls,  skim 
and  strain  off  the  Broth, έΑΦ put  two  quarts  of  it  and  the  Meat 
into  a  clean  stew-pan, έΑΦ let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  half  an 
hour  longer,  and  it  is  ready.  If  you  wish  it  thickened,  (which 
we  do  not  recommend, έΑΦ for  the  reasons  given  in  the  7th  Chap- 
ter of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery) έΑΦ put  two  ounces  of  butter 
into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  throw  in  as  much  fiour  as 


\ .%. 


BOOTHS,    GRAVIIS,  AKD  SOUPS.  221 

will  dry  it  up ;  wheD  they  are  well  mixed  together,  and  hrowQ- 
ed  by  degrees,  pour  to  this  your  soup,  and  stir  it  well  together, 
let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer,  strain  it  through  a  hair 
sieve  into  a  clean  stevi  pan,  and  put  to  it  the  meat  ot  the  head, 
-έΑΦlet  it  stew  half  an  hour  longer,  and  season  it  with  Cayenne 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  glass  of  good  wine,  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
brandy.     See  Oi  Cheek  Stewed  <d07.) 

Obs, έΑΦ Those  who  wish  this  Soup  still  more  savoury,  &c.  for 
the  means  of  making  it  so  we  refer  to  (No.  247.) 

N┬τ  fi.  This  is  an  Escellent  and  ┬μk;ooomical  Soup, έΑΦ 

Halfan  Ox  Cheek       ...-16 
Celery       -------oi 

Herbi 0    1 

Carrots  and  Tamipt      *      -      -      -03 
Oaion     -------oi 

Allspice  and  Blaek  Pepper  and  SAlt     -   o   ZέΑΦ έΑΦ 3#.   3 

and  costs  those  who  have  not  a  garden  of  their  own,  only  2^. 
2cL  and  is  a  good  and  plentiful  dinner  for  half  a  dozen  people ; 
see  also  (No.  204,)  and  (No.  229.) 

If  you  serve  it  as  Soup  for  a  dozen  people,  thicken  one  Tu- 
reen, and  send  up  the  Meat  in  that, έΑΦ and  send  up  the  other  as 
a  clear  Qravy  Soup,  with  some  of  the  carrots  and  turnips 
shredded. or  cut  into  shapes.         , 

Ox  Tail  Soup.  (Nc .  240.) 

Two  Tails,  costing  about  7d.  each,  will  make  a  Tureen  of 
Soup;  (desire  the  Butcher  to  divide  them  at  the  joints,)  lay 
them  to  soak  in  warm  water,  while  you  get  ready  the  Vegeta- 
bles. 

Put  into  a  gallon  stewpan,  eight  Cloves,  two  or  three  Onions^ 
half  a  drachm  of  Allspice,  and  the  same  of  Black  Pepper,  and 
the  Tails* ;  cover  them  with  cold  water,  skim  it  carefully, 
when  and  as  long  as  you  see  any  scum  rise ; έΑΦ then  cover  the 
pot  as  close  as  possible,  and  set  it  on  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep 
gently  simmering  till  the  meat  becomes  tender,  and  will  leave 
the  bones  easily,  because  it  is  to  be  eaten  with  a  spoon,  without 
the  assistance  ff  a  knife  or  fork ;  see  N.  B.  to  (No.  244 ;)  this 
will  require. attoiut  two  h()urs  ;  mind  it  is  not  done  too  much  : 
when  perfectly  tender,  take  out  the  meat  (which  some  Cooks 


*  Some  lovers  of  Haut'Goui  fry  the  "tails  before  they  put  them  into 
the  Soup  pot. 
19* 


^2S  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  AND  SOVP┬τ. 

cut  off  the  bones,  id  neat  moathfub,  which  13  the  best  waj  of 
serving  it,)  skim  the  broth,  aod  strain  it  through  a  sieve;έΑΦ if 
you  prefer  a  Thickkned  Soup,  put  flour  and  butter,  as  direct- 
ed in  the  preceding  Rereipt,έΑΦ- or  put  two  tablespoonsful  of  the 
Fat  you  have  taken  off  the  Broth  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste ;  set  this  over  the  fire, 
aod  stir  them  well  together,  then  pour  in  the  Broth  by  degrees, 
stirring  it  and  mixing  it  with  the  thickening ; έΑΦ let  it  simmer  for 
another  half  hour,  and  when  you  have  well  skimmed  it  andil  is 
quite  smooth,  then  strain  it  through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan,  put  in  the  Meat,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  Mushroom  Cat- 
sup (No.  439,)  a  glass  of  Wine,  and  season  it  with  salt. 
For  increasing  the  Piquance  of  this  Soup,. read  (No.  247.) 
06s.έΑΦ See  N.  B.  to  (No.  244)  ;  if  the  Meat  is  cut  off  tlie 
Bones,  you  must  have  three  Tails  for  a  Tureen,  see  N.  B*  ta 
(No.  244)  ;  some  put  an  Ox  Cheek  or  Tails  in  an  earthen  paa 
with  all  the  ingredients  as  above,  aod  send  them  to  a  slow  oven 
for  five  or  six  hours. 

N,  B.  Thia  is  even  more  economical  than  the  preceding  Soup  :έΑλ┬τ- 

TwoTRib       ------       1    2 

Onions  and  Spioe       -  ---02- 

Three  Quits  of  excellent  S9up  cost  only    1   4 

To  Stew  Ox  Taiw,  see  CNo.  531.), 

Ox  Heel  Soup,  (No.  ^40*.) 

Must  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  eaten.  Procure  an  Ox 
Heel  undressed,  or  only  scalded,  (oot  one  that  has  been  alrea- 
dy boiled,  as  they  are  at  the  Tripe  shops,  till  almost  all  the  ge- 
latinous parts  are  extracted,)^  and  Two  that  have  been  boiled  as. 
they  usually  are  at  the  Tripe  shops. 

Cut  the  meat  off  the  boiled  heels  inte  neat  mouthfuls,  aod  set 
it  by  on  a  plate  ;  put  the  trimmings  and  bones  into  a  stewpan,. 
with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  the  unboiled  heel  cut  into  quar- 
ters ;έΑΦ furnish  a  stewpan  with  two  onions  and  two  turnips 
pared  and  sliced,  pare  off  the  red  part  of  a  couple  of  large  car- 
rots, add  a  couple  of  eshallots  cut  in  half,  a  bunch  of  savory,  or 
leroon-thyme,  and  double  the  quantity  of  parsley ;  set  this 
over  or  by  the  side  of  a  slow  steady  fire,  and  keep  it  closely 
covered  and  simmenog  very  gently  (or  the  soup-liquor  will 
evaporate,)  for  at  least  seven  hours ;  during  which,  take  care  to 


BROTHS,    GRAVIES,  AND  fiOU^S^  223 

remove  the  fat  and  scum  that  will  rise  to  the  surfaee  ef  the 
soup,  which  mast  be  kept  as  clean  as  possible. 

Now  strain  the  liqaor  through  a  sieve,  aod  put  two  oQoc┬τe 
of  butter  into  a  clean  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  into  it  as 
mach  fiour  as  wilt  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  add  to  it  by  degrees,  the 
80up  liquor,  give  it  a  boil  op,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  pot 
IB  the  peel  of  a  lemon  pared  as  thin  as  possible,  and  a  couple  of 
bay-leaves,  and  the  meat  of  the  boiled  heel8,*^let  it  go  on  sim- 
mering for  half  an  hour  longer,  t.  e,  till  the  meat  is  tender.  Pat 
in  the  juice  of  a  Lemon,  a  glass  of  Wine,  and  a  tableepoonful 
of  Mushroom  Catsup,  and  the  soup  is  ready  for  the  tureen. 

06s. έΑΦ Those  who  are  disposed  tq  make  this  a  more  substan- 
tial dish,  may  introduce  a  couple  of  sets  of  Goose  or  Duck  gib- 
lets, or  Ox  tails,  or  a  pound  of  Yeal  Cutlets,  cut  into  mouth- 
fttla. 

HarέΓυf  Rabbit,  or  Partridge  Soufk        (No.  241.)* 

έΨι 

An  Old  Hare,  or  Birds,  when  so  tough  as  to  defy  the  teeth 
10  any  other  form,  will  make  very  good  Soup. 

CutofiTthe  legs  and  shoulders,  divide  the  body  crossways, 
and  stew  them  veiy  gently  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  one 
carrot,  about  one  ounce  of  onion,  with  four  cloves,  two  blades 
of  pounded  mace,  94  black  peppers,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,  till  the  Hare  is  tender,  (most  Cooks  add  to  the  above  a 
couple  of  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon,  and  a  Bay  leaf,  hot  my  Pal- 
ate and  Purse  both  plead  agaiust  such  extravagance,  the  Hare 
makes  sufficiently  savoury  Soup  without  them;  ;  the  time  this 
will  take,  depends  very  much  upon  its  age,  and  how  fong  it  has 
been  kept  before  it  is  dressed  ;  as  a  general  rule,  about  three 
hours ;,  in  the  mean  time,  make  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  nice  force- 
meat balls  (as  big  as  Nutmegs)  of  (No.  379)  ;  when  the  Hara 
is  quite  tender,  take  ihe  meat  off  the  Back,  and  the  upper  joint 
of  the  Legs,cut  it  into  neat  raouthful3,andJay  it  aside ;  cut  the 
rest  of  the  meat  off  the  legs┬╗shoulders,.&c.  mince  it,  and  pound 
it  in  a  mortar,  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  moistened  with  a  little  Soup  ;  rub  this 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  it  into  the  Soup  to  thicken  it ; έΑΦ 
let  it  simmer  slowly  half  an  hour  longer,  skimming  it  well,-έΑΦ 
put  it  through  the  Tammis,  into  the  pan  again, έΑΦ and  put  in  the 
meat  with  a  glass  of  Claret  or  Port  wine,  and  a  tablespoonfuL 
of  Currant  Jelly  to  each  quart  of  Soup, έΑΦ aeadon  it  with  salt,. 


234  BROTHS,    OIUlVlEft,   iiND  SOtPS. 

gut  ia  the  forcemeat  balUi  aod  w heo  all  is  well  warmed,  the 
oup  is  ready. 

Ob.έΑΦ -Cold  Roast  Harb  will  make  ezcelleot  soup.  Chop 
it  in  pieoes,  aod  stew  it  io  water  (according  to  the  quaouiy  of 
Hare)  for  about  ao  ixnir,  and  mao^ge  it  as  in  the  above  receipt ; 
the  stuffiog  of  the  hare  will  be  a  substitute  for  sweet  herbs  and 
seasoning. 
N.  B.  This  Soup  may  be  made  with  Mock  Ha&e,(No.  66*.) 
Qi^r  See  Appendix  I.  for  Game  Soup. 

GoosB  or  Duck  Gihlet^  Soup.        (No.  244) 

Scald  and  pick  very  clean  a  couple  sets  of  Goose^ έΑΦ or  four  of 
Duck  Crihlets^  (the  fresher  the  better,)  wash  them  well  id  warin 
water,  in  two  or  three  waters  ;  cut  off  the  Noses  and  split  the 
Heads,  divide  the  Gizzards  and  Necks  into  Moutkfids.^έΑΦ1^  the 
Gizzards  are  not  cut  into  pieces,  before  they  are  done  enough, 
the  rest  of  the  meat,  Sec.  will  be  done  too  much ; έΑΦ and  Knives 
and  Forks,  have  no  business  in  a  Soup  plate.  Crack  the  bones 
of  the  Legs  ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan, έΑΦ cover  them  with  cold 
water ;  when  they  boil,  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  put  ia 
a  bundle  of  herbs,  such  as  Lemon  Thyme,  Winter  Savory,  or 
Marjoram,  about  three  sprigs  of  each, έΑΦ and  double  the  quanti- 
ty of  Parsley, έΑΦ twenty  berries  of  Allspice,  the  same  of  black 
pepper,  tie  them  all  up  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  set  them  to  stew 
verxj  gently,  till  the  Gizzards  are  tender ; έΑΦ this  will  take  from 
an  hour  and  a  half,  to  two  hours,  according  to  the  size  and  age 
of  the  Giblets : έΑΦ take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  or  a  spoon  full 
of  holes,  put  them  into  the  tureen,  and  cover  down  close,  to 
keep  warm  till  the  Soup  is  ready. 

To  Thicken  the  Soup. έΑΦ Melt  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  but- 
ter in  a  clean  stewpan,  stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  will  make  it 
into  a  paste  ;  then  pour  to  it  by  degrees  a  ladlefol  of  the  Gi'bJet 
liquor,  add  the  remainder  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  about  ten  mi- 
nutes, stirring  it  all  the  while,  for  fear  it  should  burn, έΑΦ skim  it 
and  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  Basin, έΑΦ wash  out  the 
stewpan, έΑΦ then  return  the  Soup  into  it,  and  season  it  with  a 
Glass  of  wine,  a  tablespoon ful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  and  a  lit- 
tle salt, έΑΦ let  it  have  one  boil  up,  and  then  put  the  driblets  in  to 
get  hot,  and  the  Soup  is  ready. 

06s. έΑΦ Thus  managed,  one  set  of  Goost  or  two  of  Duck 
Giblets,  (which  latter  may  sometimes  be  bad  for  3d.)  you  will 

έΑΦ ^*┬╗^^|  έΑΦ έΑΦ έΨι 111!  I  I  έΨι  _  ifi-n    -     -  έΑΦ ^έΑΦ 

t  Fowls*  or  Turkeyi*  H┬τads  niake^oMf  and  cheap  Soup  in  tbe  tame  miuwer. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,   AND   SOUPS.  S25 

make  a  Quart  of  healthful,  nourishiog  Soup :  if  you  think  the 
Giblets  aloue  will  not  make  the  Gravy  savoury  enougb,^add  a 
pound  of  Beefy  or  Mutton,  or  bone  of  a  knuckle  of  Yeal,  and 
heighten  its  **piqwaice"  by  adding  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  Bi^ 
sil,  the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange  or  lemon,  and  half  a  glass 
of  Wine,  and  a  little  of  (No.  343*)  to  each  quart  of  Soup. 

Those  who  are  fond  ot  Forcemeat,  may  slip  the  skin  off 
the  neck,  and  fill  it  with  (No.  378,)  tie  up  the  other  end  tight, 
put  it  into  the  soup  about  half  an  hour  before  you  take  it  up, 
or  make  some  nice  savoury  Balls  of  the  Duck  stuifiog  (No.  61.} 

┬τ  Obs. έΑΦ Bespeak  the  Giblets  a  couple  of  days  before  yon  dietire  to 
have  them  ;  this  is  a  favourite  Soup  when  the  Giblets  are  done  till 
nicely  tender,  but  yet  not  overboiled.  Giblets  may  he  had  from  July 
to  January, έΑΦ the  fresher  they  are,  the  better. 

N.  Bt  This  is  rather  a  family  dish  than  a  company  one, έΑΦ the  Bones 
cannot  be  well  picked,  without  the  help  of  Alive  Pincers. 

Since  Tom  Coiyat  introduced  Forks,  A.  D.  1642,  it  has  not  been 
the  fashion  to  put  ** pickers  and  stealers'*  into  Soup. 

Mock  MoctL  Turtle, έΑΦ as  made  by  Elizabeth  Lister,  late 

Cook  to  Dr,  Kitcniner,  (No.  245.) 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  stewpao  that  will  hold  five  pints,  with 
an  ounce  of  nice  lean  Bacon,  or  Ham,  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
lean  gravy  Beef,  a  Cow  Heel,  the  inner  rind  of  a  carrot,  a  sprig 
of  lemon-thyme,  winter  savory,  three  times  the  quantity  of  pars*^ 
ley,  a  few  green  leaves  of  sweet  basil,*!'  and  two  shallots;  put 
in  a  large  Onion,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in  it,  18  corns  of  all- 
spice, ihd  same  of  black  pepper ;  pour  on  these  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  cover  the  siewpaa,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire, 
to  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then,  for  fear  the  meat 
should  catch,  take  off  the  cover,  and  watch  it ;  and  when  it 
has  got  a  good  brown  colour,  fill  up  the  stewpan  with  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  two  hours ; έΑΦ if  you 
wish  to  have  the  full  benefit  of  the  meat,  only  stew  it  till  it  is 
just  tender,  cut  it  into  mouthfals,  and  put  it  into  the  soup.  To 
Thickien  it,  pour  to  two  or  three  tablespoonsful  of  Flour,  a 
ladleful  of  the  gravy,  and  stir  it  quick  till  it  is  well  mixed  ;  pour 
it  back  into  the  stewpan  where  the  gravy  is,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  half  an  hour  longer,  skim  it,  and  then  strain  it 

t  To  thif  fine  aromstie  Herb,  Turtle  Soup  is  much  indebted  for  its  spiey  flarour, 
asd  the  high  esteem  it  is  held  in  by  the  cood  citizens  of  London,  Yho,  I  believe,  are 
pretty  generally  of  the  same  opinion  as  Dr  Salmon.  See  his  **  HotueheUt  Dictiono' 
ry^  article  *  Basil.'  έΑλ┬τ  This  comforts  the  hciurt,  expels  mehipofaolyi  an4  cleanses  the 
lungs."   See  No.  397, 


┬τ 


226         BEOTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  , 

through  a  taminis  into  the  stewpaa ;  cut  the  cow-heel  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  square,  squeeze  through  a  sieve  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoon ful  of  mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonfui  of  ground  black  pepper,  as  much 
grated  nutmeg  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira 
or  sherry  wine;  let  it  all  simmer  together  for  five  mioutes 
^on^er. 

Forcemeat  or  Egg  balls  may  be  added  if  you  please;  you 
will  find  a  receipt  for  these,  (No.  380,)  &c. 

^  %*  A  pound  of  Veal  Cutlets,  or  the  belly  part  ef  pickled  Pork,  or 
nice  doable  Tripe  cat  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  and  half  aa 
inch  thick,  and  rounded  and  trimmed  neatly  from  all  skin,  gristle,  &c. 
and  stewed  till  they  are  tender,  will  be  a  great  addition. 

r.  d. 
One  pound  and  a  half  of  grftTT  beef  -  1  0 
Cow  Heel  έΑλ  -  -'-  έΑλ  έΑλ  07 
Roots  and  Herbi,  &e*  -  -  έΑλέΨι  f  0  3 
Butter  and  floar  -       -      -       -       0   4 

Wine 0   6 

Half  a  lemon 0    1 

Bacon,  Cce.  &e.       έΑλ      -       -       '      έΑλ'0   4 

Two  qoaiti  cost  only       .--31 

Mock  Turtle,  (No.  247.) 

Ts  the  Bonne  Bouche  which  "  the  Officers  of  the  Mouth*'  of 
Old  England  +  prepare,  when  they  choose  to  rival  ies  Grands 
Cuisiniers  de  France  in  a  Ragoiit  Sans  PareiL 

Endeavour  to  have  the  Head  and  the  Broth  ready  for  the 
SoMp,  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  ea^en. 

It  will  take  Eight  Hours  to  prepare  it  properly. 

hourt. 
Cleaning  and  Making  bead    -      .      -     l. 
To  parboil  it  to  cut  up       -       -       -       -   1 
Cooling,  nearly       .       .       .       .       >       l 
Making  the  Broth  and  finishing  the  Soup     5έΑΦέΑΦ 8  hours. 

Get  a  Calfs  head  with  the  skin  on,  (the  fresher  the  better,) 
take  out  the  brains,  wash  the  head  several  times  in  cold  water, 
let  it  soak  about  an  hour  in  spring  water,  then  lay  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  and  cover  it  with  cold  water,  half  a  gallon  over;  as  it  be- 
comes warm  a  great  deal  of  scum  will  rise,  which  must  be  imme- 
diately removed ;  let  it  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  take  it  up,  and 
when  almost  cold,  cut  the  bead  into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a 


t┬τ  Tout  le  monde  salt  que  tous  lei  Ragwt*  qui  portent  to  nom  de  Tortae  wat 
4'origine  Aogiaisc" 


BROTHS,    GRAVma,  AKD   SOUPS.  SH 

bair  by  aa  inch  and  a  quarter,  and  the  toogoe  into  moothfalay  or 
make  aside  dish  of  the  Tongue  and  Brains,  as  in  (No.  10.) 

^^fVhtnyou  have  prep(tred  the  heeui  so  far,  you  may  either 
take  tJie  following  method^  or  Uke  one  in  Appendui  1.  u>kich  tee, 

Pm  about  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stock  pot,  and  tbre┬τ 
large  Onions  (such  as  weigh  about  three  ounces  each)  cut  in 
half  ;  stir  these  about  till  they  get  a  little  browned,  then  chop 
a  Shin  of  Beef  of  fifteen  pounds  weight  into  pieces,  and  lay 
theoi  on  the  onions,  and  fill  up  the  stewpan  with  the  liquor  ia 
Vfhich  tbeCaif^s  head  was  boiled  ;  when  it  boils,  and  you  have 
skioaoied  it  well,  put  in  two  Carrots,  two  Turnips,  two  beads  of 
Celery,  eight  Cloves,  a  quarter  of  an'  ounce  (aToirdnpois 
weight)  oi  EsbaUota,  cut  in  balf^  and  a  bundle  of  equal  parts 
of  Green  wmtei  Savory,  Lemon -thyme,  knotted  Mar)orain,and 
Basil,:);  and  twice  the  quantity  of  Parsley :  put  in  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  Allspice,  s>ame  of  whole  Black  Pepper,  the  trim- 
mings and  hones  of  the  Calf's  bead  ;┬π  cover  it  close,  and  let  it 
fitew  gently  for  about  four  boure,(tbere  should  be  nine  quarts  of 
soup  when  it  is  finiftbed)  ;  and  strain  it  off,  and  reserve  a  couple 
of  quarts  of  this  Broth  to  make  Gravy  Sauces  for  the  rest  of 
the  Dinner  ;  see  <No.  307.)  And  save  some  of  the  thicken- 
ed Soup,  Cor  Sauce  for  Fish,  Ragouts,  &c.  ;  this  hint  will 
save  you  much  expense,  and  much  time  and  trouble. 

Take  four  drachms  of  Lemon  peel,  two  of  Eshallot,  six 
drachms  of  the  leaves  of  Sage┬τ  and  six  of  Winter  Savory, 
chop  it  together  quite  fine,  then  put  it  on  the  fire  in  half  a  pint 
of  the  stock,  let  it  boil  till  it  is  quite  tender,  (about  half  an 
hour,)  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon  rub  the  herbs  through,  and  put  it  iu  the  Soup  when  you 
have  thickened  it. 

To  Thicken  it,  put  about  six  minces  of  Butter  into  a  clean 
stewpan  ;  when  it  is  melted,  gradually  stir  in  eight  ounces  of 

t  See  Obt.  to  Cmo,  503*.;  Tbn  Gravy  Mest  vrill  make  an  exeellent  sat)ory  Potted 
re/is/i^  M  it  win  be  imprefpiated  with  the  flaToor  of'tbe  herbs  aiid  spice  that  are 
bmled  with  it. 

'l*he  Reader  may  bare  remarked,  that  Mock  Turtle  and  Potteti  Beef  always  come 
in  season  together. 

X  (No.397),aTeaspoonfal  will  impregnate  a  quart  of  the  Soup  with  tbo  Basil 
flaTOarat  rery  modrrate  cost, when  fresh  Basil  is  extravagantly  dear. 

The  Jelly fromthe  Shank  Bone*  tf  Mutton^  see  N.  B.  to  (No.  481,)  will  give  this 
gelatinoiM  ifuality  cheaper  thap  any  thing,  exceptityr  SalUbury  Clue* 

$  The  addition  of  a  couple  of  Cairs  Feet,  or  a  Cow  Heel,  will  render  the  Soup 
riebiy  gelatinous.  You  may  cut  these  up,  and  reserve  the  best  pieces  to  put  in  the 
Soup  with  the  GUirs  Head,  and  put  the  trimmings  and  bones  to  stew  with  the  other 
ingrediefits. 


228        BROTHS,  OAAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

Floor,  rub  il  up  iff  ell  and  moiBten  it  with  a  ladlefal  of  your 
Soup  liquor,  and  iniz  all  well  (og^her,  till  ihej  are  smoothly 
united,  then  add  the  remainder  by  degrees,  stirring  it  ail  the 
while  till  thoroughly  incorporated ;  (if  it  ia  at  all  lumpy,  pass 
it  through  a  sieve);  let  it  stew  half  an  hour  longer,  taking  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  strain  it  through  a  tammis  into  ^clean 
stewpan,  put  in  tlie  Head,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  the  Meat 
il  tender,  (thu  may  requre  about  an  hour  ; έΑΦ take  tare  it  is  mt 
dverdone,) 

To  Sbason  it,  to  each  Gallon  of  Soup  put  two  tablespoon- 
fiils  of  Lenion  Juice,*  see  (No.  407,)  same  of  Mosbfoom 
Catsup  (No.  439,)  and  one  of  Essence  of  Ancbory  (No.4d3,) 
half  a  pint  of  Wine,  (this  should  be  Madeira,  or  if  you  wish 
to  darken  the  color  of  your  soup.  Claret,)  a  teaspoonful  of 
Curry  Powder  (No.  455,)  or  a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  Cay- 
enne, and  the  peel  of  a  Lemon  pared  as  thin  as  possible  ;  let 
it  simmer  five  minutes  more,  take  out  the  Lemon  Peel,  and 
the  Soap  is  ready  for  the  Tureen. 

While  the  Soup  is  doing,  prepare  for  each  tureen,  a  dozen 
and  a  half  of  Mock  Turtle  forcemeat  balls,  (to  make  these, 
see  (No.  375  or  376,  No.  390  to  No.  396,)  we  prefer  the 
stuffing  ordered  in  (No.  61.)  and  a  dozen  Egg  balls  ;  and  put 
them  into  the  tureen.  Brain  Balls,  or  cakes,  are  a  very  ele- 
gant addition,  and  are  made  by  boiling  the  brains  for  ten-  tnin- 
utes,  then  putting  them  in  cold  water,  and  cutting  them  into 
pieces  about  as  big  as  a  large  nutmeg ;  take  Savory,  or  Lem- 
on-thyme dried  and  finely  powdered,  nutmeg  grated,  and  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  pound  them  all  together ;  beat  up  an  e^g,  dip 
the  brains  m  it,  and  then  roll  them  in  this  mixture,  and  make 
as  much  of  it  as  possible  stick  to  them,  dip  them  in  the  egg 
again,  and  then  in  finely  grated  and  sifted  bread-crumbs,  fry 
tbem  in  hot  fat,  and  send  them  up  as  a  side  dish. 

A  YEAL  SWEETBREAD,  prepared  as  in  (No.  89,)  (not  too 
'  much  done  or  it  will  break)  cut  into  pieces  the  same  size  as  you 
cut  the  calfs  bead,  and  put  in  the  soup,  just  to  get  warm  belare 
it  goes  to  table,  is  a  superb  Bonne  Bouche ;  and  Pickled 
Tongue,  stewed  till  very  tender,  and  cut  into  mouthful s,  is  a 
favourite  addition  with  some  cooks.  We  order  the  meat  to  be 
cut  into  mouthfuls,  that  it  may  be  eaten  with  a  spoon ;  the 
Knife  and  Fork  have  no  business  in  a  Soup  plate. 

I 

έΑλ  See  Basil  Wine  (No.  307,)  and  Essence  of  Turtle  (No┬τ  343*0 


BROTHS,    GRAVIES,   AND  80t7PS.  339 

This  Soup  was  eateo  by  the  Commiltee  of  Ttfle  with 
aDanimouB  applause,  and  tbey  proooaoced  it  a  very  latisfKtory 
substitute  for  **  the  far  fetcbt  aod  deer  bought^  Turtlb  ;f 
which  itself  is  indebted  for  its  Title  of  '*  Sotbreioh  or  8a> 
έΨ╝oRiNEss,"  to  the  rich  Soup  with  which  it  is  sanouDded. 
Without  its  paraphernalia  of  Double  Relishes,  a  *^  sTAmrED 
TVWLTLEt^  has  rwi  more  intrinsic  sapidity  than  a  "  FATTED 
CALF."  See  Essence  of  Turtle,  (No.  343/)  and  Obs.  to 
(No.  493.) 

To  WARM  THIS  Soup,  see  (No.  485.) 

*^*  Some  of  our  culinary  coUmporarie$f  order  the  HauU 

font  of  this  (08  above  directed^  $ufflcienUy  reluhing)  Sovp  to 
i  comhtistibled  and  be'devilled^  wUh  a  copious  addiiian  of  An- 
cAomcs, έΑΦ Mushroomsy έΑΦ Truffles^'^Mordl┬╗9"'~^urnf*pefwder^ 
έΑΦ Artichoke  hottoms^-^Salmofu^  heads  and  Zivers,-έΑΦ or  the  mfl 
part  of  Qvsters  or  Lobstersy έΑΦ Soles  cut  in  moutJkfulsi'-'<i  hoU 
tie  of  Maaeira, έΑΦ a  pint  of  Brandy^  (^c,  and  to  complete  their 
surfeiting  and  bum-gullet  OliOy  they  put  in  such  a  tremendous 
guantUy  of  Cayenne  pepper^ έΑΦ that  only  a  Jire^proof  palate^ 
lined  tmh  Asbestos^  or  indurated  by  Indian  Diety  can  endure 
it.     See  tJote  under  (No.  493.) 

N.  B.  In  helping  this  Soup,  the  distributor  of  it  should 
serve  out  the  Meat, έΑΦ Forcemeat'έΑΦ and  Qravy,-έΑΦ in  equal  parts; 
however  trifling  or  needless  this  remark  may  appear,  the  writer 
has  often  suffered  from  the  want  of  such  a  hint  being  given  to 
the  Soup*server,  who  has  sometimes  sent  a  plate  of  mere  Gravy 
without  Meat, έΑΦ at  others,  of  Meat  without  Gravy,  and  some- 
times scarcely  any  thing  but  Forcemeat  Balls. 

Obs, έΑΦ This  is  a  delicious  Soup,  within  the  reach  of  those 
who  *'eat  to  live  ;*'  but  if  it  had  been  composed  expressly  for 
those  who  only  *'  live  to  eat,'*  I  do  not  know  how  it  could 
have  been  made  more  agreeable :  as  it  is,  th*e  lover  of  good 
eating  will  *'  wish  bis  Throat  a  mile  long,  and  every  inch  of  it 
Palate." 

^glish  Turtle,  (No,  348.) 

See  (No.  502.)     "  Alamode  Beef." 

i>  **^  Mttny  Gourmett  and  Oattvoloeen  prefer  the  copy  to  the  original,έΑΦ ive  confeti 
that  when  done  a*  it  ought  to  be,  the  Mock  Turtle  u  exeeedinfly  inteNttinr.**έΑΦ 
Takella  CibarUu  .  *  j         ┬τm┬τj. 

**  Turtles  often  beeome  emaciated  and  sickly  before  they  reach  this  country,  io 
which  ease  the  Soup  would  be  tneomparably  improved,  by  leavinr  ottt  the  Turtle, 
and  snbstitatinir  a  good  CalTs  Hn;i***έΑΦSuppUmaitt9  Encyc.  ┬μrjK. 

20 


230  BROTHS,   OUAVIES,   AVD  SOUPS. 

Curry ^  ir  MK2(ag┬╗*Tatony*  Samp.    (No*  949.) 

Cut  4;ba.  of  a  Breast  of  Vatl/io to  pieces,  about  two  iodies 
by  one  ;  put  the  trimmiogs  into  a  stewpan  witfi  two  quarts  of 
water┬τ  with  13  corns  of  Black  Pepper,  aod  the  same  of  Alt- 
spice  ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  cleao,  and  >Iet  it  boil  an  hoar  nti 
a  half,  then  strain  it  off; έΑΦ while  it  19  boHing,  fry  of  a  nice 
brown  in  butter  the  bits  of  Veal  and  foar  Onions  ;  when  Ui^ 
are  done,  put  the  Broth  to  them,  put  it  on  the  fire ;  when  it 
boils,  skim  it  clean, έΑΦ let  it  simmer  half  an  hour,  then  mix  two 
spoonsful  of  Curry  and  the  same  of  Flour,  with  a  little  cold 
water,  and  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt ;  add  these  to  the  soup,  and 
siromervit  gently  tilj  the  Veal  is  quite  tender,  and  it  is  ready:;έΑΦ ┬τ 
or  bone  a  couple  of  Fowls  or^Aabbits,  and  stew  them  in  the 
manner  directed  above  for  the  Veal, έΑΦ and  you  may  put  in  a 
bruised  Esballot,  and  some  Mace  and'iilinger,  instead  of  Blaek 
Pepper  and  Allspice. 

06┬τ.έΑΦ Read  (No.  497.) 

Turtlei-  Soup.  (No.  250.; 

The  following  receipt. for  dressing  this  savoury  farrago  is  (he 
present  practice  of  an  experienced  French  cook,  (lately  ooe  of 
les  homines  de  Bouche  at  Carlton- House,)  and  a  consammate 
master  of  the  art :  I  give  it  in  his  own  words  : έΑΦ 

"  The  best  size  for  taste,  is  from  60  to  80  pounds  ;  this  will 
make  six  or  eight  tureens  of  fine  soup.  Kill  the  turtle  the  eve- 
ning before  you  wish  to  dress  it ;  tie  a  cord  to  the  hind  fiosof 

έΑλ  Mullaga'  Tawny έΑΦ sig^nifies  Pepper  Water.  The  prog^ress  of  inex- 
perienced peripatetic  PalaticiaQS  has  lately  been  arrested  by  this  out- 
landish word  being  pasted  on  the  windows  of  our  Coffee-Houses :  it 
has,  we  believe,  answered  the  Restauraieurs*  purpose,  and  often  exci- 
ted John  Boll  to  walk  in  and  taste  ; έΑΦ the  more  familiar  oame  of 
Curry  Soup  would,  perhaps,  not  have  had  sufficient  of  the  charms  of 
novelty έΑΦ to  seducfe  him  from  iiis  much-loved  Mock  Turtle. 

It  is  a  fashionable  Soup,  and  a  g^reat  favourite  with  our  East  Indian 
friends,  and  we  give  the  best  receipt  we  could  procure  for  it. 

t  The  usual  allowance  at  a  Turtxs  Feast,  is  Six  Pounds  live 
weight  per  Head  .έΑΦat  the  Spanish  Dinner,  1808,  400  Guests  attend- 
ed, and  2500  pounds  of  Turtle  were  consumed. 

The  Epicure  Quin  used  to  say,  it  was  "  not  safe,  to  sit  down  to  a 
Turtle  Feast  at  one  of  the  City  Halls,  without  a  basket-hiUed  Knifi 
and  Fork." 

We  recommend  our  friends,  before  encountering  such  a  temptationi 
to  read  our  Peptk  Precepts.     Nothing  is  more  difficult  of  di^' 
tion,  or  oflener  requires  the  aid  of  Peristaltic  PersuaUerSj  (see  paj^c 
34  of  this  work,)  than  the  glatmous  Callipash  which  is  considered  the   . 
bonne  bouche  of  this  Soap. 

Turtle  is  generally  spoiled  by  being  over-dressed. 


h. 


I 


BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  ANB  SOUPS.  331 

the  turtle,  and  hang  it  up  with  the  head  downwards  ;  tie  the 
fore  fins  by  way.  of  pintODiog  them,  it  would  oiheTwise  beat  ┬τt- 
v^  self,  and  be  troubiesome  to  the  ezeeutioner  ;  take  the  head 
vrith  your  left  hand,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cnioff  the  neck  as 
Bear  the  head  as  possible  ;  there  is  a  joint  where  the  koife  will 
pop  through  without  any  force.     Have  one  or  two  large  tubs 
of  water  ready,  and  when  you  dissect  your  turtle,  put  it  on  a 
block  on  the  back  shell,  slip  your  knife  between  the  calliopee 
and  the  calliopash ;  I  mean  between  the  breast  and  the  edge  of 
the  back  shell :  when  the  knife  has  been  round,  and  the  breast 
is  detached  Crooi  the  back  shell,  pass  your  fingers  underneath, 
and  with  your  knife  detach  the  breast  from  the  fins,  always 
keeping  the  edge  of  your  knife  on  the  side  of  the  breast,  other- 
wise it  may  happen  you  may  break  the  gall,   which  is  yery 
large,  and  if  broken,  your  turtle  is  spoiled.   Cut  the  breast  into 
four  pieces,  next  take  away  the  guts,   beginning  by  the  liver, 
and  cut  away  the  gall,  to  be  out  of  danger  at  once.     The  guts 
are  to  be  thrown  away.     I  have  seen  some  cooks  have  them 
cleaned  and  cut  in  pieces,  and  put  into  the  soup,  but  generally, 
they  are  left  on  the  gentlemen's  plates :  a  basin  of  turtle  is  con- 
sidered a  treat,  consequently  it  should  be  so  dressed  that  none 
be  left  on  the  plate  or  bssin^     When  your  turtle  is  emptied, 
throw  the  heart,  liver,  kidneys,  and  lights  into  water,  cut  away 
the  fins  to  the  root,  I  mean  as  near  to  the  back  shell  as  possi* 
ble,  next  eui  the  fins  in  the  second  joint,  that  the  white  meat 
may  be  separated  from  the  greeu :  scrape  the   fat  that  sticks 
against  the  back  shell,  or  calliopash,  take  it  like  as  if  you  was 
skimming  any  thing,  and  put  it  aside.     Cut  the  calliopash  into 
four  pieces.     Set  a  large  turbot  pan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it 
boils  dip  a  fin  into  it  for  a  minute,  then  take  it  out  and  peel  it 
very  clean ;  when  that  it  done,  take  another,  and  so  on  till  all 
are  done  ;  then   the  head,  next  the  shell  and  breast,  piece  by 
piece.     Be  careful  to  have  the  peel  and  shell  entirely  cleaned 
ofi^,  then  put  in  the  same  pan  some  clean  water,  with  the  breast 
and  back,  the  four  fins,  and  the  head  ;  let  it  boil  till  the  bones 
will  leave  the  meat ;  put  with  it  a  large  faggot  of  turtle  herbs 
as  big  as  your  two  fists,  four  bay-leaves,  and  some  thyme.     If 
you  mean  to  make  two  dishes  of  the  fins,  you  must  take  them 
away  when  they  have  been  boiled  one  hour. 

**  Fut,.  io  a  small  stewpan,  the  liver,  lights,  heart,  and  kid- 
neys, and  the  fat  you  have  put  a^ide ;  take  some  of  the  liquor 
that  the  other  part  has  been  boiled  in ;  cover  your  stewpan 


232  BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AKP  SOUPS. 

clote^  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  tb┬τee  hours.  Clean  tbe  bones, 
and  breaat,  and  back,  from  the  green  fat,  and  cut  it  into  pieces 
an  inch  long,  and  half  an  inch  wide  ;  do  not  lose  any,  as  tbe 
little  biu  are  as  good  as  the  large  ones ;  besides,  it  would  be 
very  difficult  to  cut  it  all  tbe  same  size.  Put  all  these  pieces 
on  a  dish  in  your  Jarder  till  your  broth  is  ready.  To  make 
your  brothy  put  on  a  large  stock-pot,  and  line  tbe  bottom  of  it 
with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  ham,  cut  into  slices.  Cut  into 
pieces  a  leg  of  real  of  sixteen  or  twenty  pounds  weight,  except 
a  pound  of  the  fillet  that  you  save  for  tbe  forcemeat,  put  the 
rest  upon  the  ham,  with  all  the  white  meat  of  tbe  turtle,  and  a 
couple  of  old  fowls  ;  put  it  on  a  smart  fire,  with  two  ladJesfol 
of  broth  or  contommS ;  let  it  reduce  to  a  glase  ;  when  it  be* 
gins  to  stick  to  the  bottom,  pour  tbe  liquor  in  which  the  turtle 
has  been  boiled  into  the  pot  where  the  other  part  of  the  turtle 
has  been  boiled,  add  to  it  a  little  more  sweet  herbs,  twenty-four 
grains  of  allspice,  six  blades  of  mace,  two  large  onions,,  four 
carrots,  half  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  and  some  salt,  let  it 
simmer  for  four  hours,  and  then  strain  the  broth  thrc-o^  % 
cloth  sieve. 

**  Put  the  green  part  of  the  turtle  that  has  been  cut  in  pieoes, 
and  nicely  cleaned,  with  two  bottles  of  Madeira  in  tbe  same : 
when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  with  your  turtle,  add  to  it  the 
broth,  then  put  in  a  stewpan  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  when  it  is 
melted,  add  to  it  four  woodenspoonsful  of  flour,  stir  it  on  the 
fire  till  the  flour  is  a  fine  brown  colour,  then  pour  some  of  your 
broth  with  it,  mix  it  well,  and  strain  it  in  your  soup  through  a 
hair  sieve.:  cut  your  liver,  lights,  heart,  kidneys,  and  fat  into 
small  square  pieces,  and  put  them  into  your  soup,  with  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  Cayenne,  two  of  curry  powder,  and  four  tabls- 
spoonsfol  of  essence  of  anchovies;  let  it  boil  for  an  hour  aod  a 
half,  carefully  skimming  off  tbe  fat. 

**  Pound  your  veal  in  a  marble  mortar  for  the  Forcembat, 
and  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  with  as  much  of  the  udder  of 
your  leg  of  veal  as  you  have  meat,  put  some  bread-crumbs  into 
a  stewpan,  with  milk  enough  to  wet  it,  with  a  little  chop|)sd 
parsley  and  shallot,  dry  it  on  the  fire,  rubit  through  the  wire 
neve,  and  when  cold,  mix  all  together,  that  every  part  may  ba 
equally  blended.  Boil  six  eggs  hard,  take  tbe  yolks  and  poand 
them  with  the  other  ingredients,  season  it  with  salt,  Cayenne, 
and  a  little  curry  powder,  add  to  it  three  raw  eggs,  and  mix  all 
well  together ;  make  small  balls  of  your  forcemeat  the  bigness 


BROTHS,  6RAV1┬μS,  AND  SOUPS.         233 

of  a  pig.eoD^s  egg*  Ten  mioutes  before  youT  soop  is  ready  pot 
your  forceballs  in┬╗  and  coatioue  to  scum  your  soop  till  you  take 
it  off  the  fire.  If  your  turtle,  weighs  eighty  pouads,  \i  requires 
very  near  three  bottles  of  Madeira.  When  you  dish  your  tur- 
tle, squeeze  two  lemons  in  each  tureen  ;  many  persons  like  to 
have  some  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  dozen  of  the  yolks  put  in 
each  ttfreen,  which  I  think  is  very  good. 

TurOe  Firu. 

"  If  yoo  have  some  brown  sauce,  you  put  io  a  stewpan  five 
large  spoonsful  of  it,  with  a  bottle  of  Port  wine,  and  a  pottle 
of  mushrooms ;  when  your  sauoe  boils  pot  your  four  fins  in  ; 
after  having  taken  away  all  the  small  bones  that  are  seen  break- 
ing through  the  skin,  put  with  it  a  faggot  of  a  few  sprigs  of  par- 
sley, a  bit  of  thyme,  one  bay- leaf,  and  four  cloves,  and  lot  it 
aimmer  one  hour  :  ten  minutes  before  you  dish,  pot  five  dozen 
oC  button  onions  that  you  have  ready  peeled ;  when  yoo  disb┬╗ 
put  io  each  dish  a  hind  fin  and  a  fore  one,  and  look  if  it  is  salt 
enough." 

***  lfy<^  ^vs  no  Brown  Saocb,  put  in  a  Miewpon  a  quar^ 
Ut  of  a  pound  of  huJUer  ;  when  U  U  melted^  put  to  it  two 
woodenspoonsfid  of  floury  stir  it  on  the  fire  OU  ft  gets  a  kazet 
colour,  pour  a  botUe  of  Port  wine  in  it^  a  kuUefal  of  broths 
and,  when  it  boils,  do  as  before  mentioned,  and  scum  it  welL 

PoRTABLsf  Soup, έΑΦ or  Glazb.        (No.  35^) 

Desire  the  Butcher  to  break  the  bones  of  a  Leg  or  a  Shin  of 
Beef,  of  10  pounds  weight  (the  fresher  killed  the  better,)  pot  it 
into  a  Soup-pot  (a  Digester:]:  is  the  best  utensil  for  this  pur-* 

έΑΦ ^έΑΦ ┬τέΑΦ ^έΑΦ i^έΑΦ ┬╗έΑΦ έΑΦ      έΨιέΨι.έΑΦέΑΦέΨιI  III     II  II .    I     έΨι         II     .1       I        .11 1 

t  A  pound  of  meat  contains  about  an  ounce  of  gelatinous  matter  ;  it 
thence  follows,  that  1500  pounds  of  the  same  meat,  which  is  the  whole 
weight  of  a  bullock,  would  give  only  94  pounds,  which  might  be  easUy 
contained  in  an  earthen  Jar."έΑΦ Z>r.  Hutton's  Rational  ReertoHont. 

In  what  degree  Portable  or  other  Soup  be  nutritious,  we  know  not ; 
but  refer  the  reader  to  our  note  under  (No.  185*.) 

tThis  machine  was  inrented  by  Dr.  I>enys  Papin,  F.  R.  S.  about 
the  year  M61,  as  appears  by  his  Essay  on  **-  The  JVeto  DigeittTf  or 
JSingine  for  softening  Bones  ;''^-^**  by  the  help  of  which,  (he  gays)  the 
oldest  and  hardest  Cow  Beef  j^ny  be  made  aa  tender  ana  as  savoury 
as  young  and  choice  Meat."  Cast  Iron  Digesters  are  made  at  Juck* 
son  fy  Moser\  in  Frith  Street,  Soho. 

Although  we  have  not  yet  found  that  they.do  what  Dr.  Fapin  says^ 
<<  make  old  and  tough  Meat έΑΦ ^young  and  tender," έΑΦ they  are,  howev- . 
er,  excellent  things  to  make  Broths  and  Soups  in. 
20* 


334  BROTHS,   6RAVIES|  AND  SOUPS. 

pofe)  thai  will  w┬τll  bold  it ;  just  cover  tt  with  cold  w&ter,  and 
act  it  on  the  fire  to  heat  gradoally  ttil  it  nearly  boils,  (this  ah(mld 
be  al  least  ao  hoar)  ;έΑΦ ^m  it  attentirely  while  any  scum  riats, 
έΑΦpoor  in  a  little  cold  water,  to  throw  op  the  scum  that  may  te- 
iiiain,-^let  it  come  to  a  boil  again,  and  again  skim  it  carefnUy: 
when  no  more  scam  rises,  and  the  broth  appears  clear,  (put  is 
neither  Roots  nor  Herbs  nor  Salt,)  let  it  boil  for  d^t  or  ten 
hours,  and  then  strain  it  throogh  a  hair  sieve  into  a  brown  stone 
pan ;  set  the  Broth  where  it  will  cool  qaickly  ;  pot  the  meat 
into  a  sieve,  let  it  drain,  make  Potted  Beef  (No.  503,) έΑΦ or  k 
Dvill  be  very  acceptable  to  many  poor  families.     Next  day  re- 
move every  partieie  of  FtU  from  the  top  of  it,  and  pour  it 
through  a  Tanmis  or  fine  sieve  as  quietly  as  possible  into  a 
Stewpn,  taking  care  not  to  let  any  of  the  settlings  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  stone  pan  go  into  the  Stewpao,  which  should  be  of 
thick  Copper,  perfectly  well  tinned  ;  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounos 
of  whole  Black  Pepper  to  it┬╗  let  it  boil  briskly  with  the  steW' 
pan  uncovered,  on  a  quick  Rre :    if  aoy  scum  rises,  take  it  olf 
with  a  skimmer  ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  is  reduced  to 
about  a  quart,  put  it  into  a  small  stewpan  ;  set  it  over  a  gen- 
tler fife,  till  it  is  reduced  to  the  thickness  of  a  very  thick  Syrup ; 
take  care  that  ii  does  not  burn, έΑΦ a  moments  inaitantion  now 
iiyill  lose  you  all  your  labour,  and  the  soup  mil  be  spoiled  ;.έΑΦ 
take  a  little  of  it  out  in  a  spoon  and  let  it  cool ;  if  it  sets  ioto 
strong  Jelly,  it  is  done  enough ;  if  it  does  not,  boil  ft  a  little 
longer,  till  it  does ;έΑΦ -have  ready  some  little  pots  such  as   ace 
used  for  Potted  Meats,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  deep,  taking 
care  tliat  they  are  quite  dry  ; έΑΦ we  recommend  it  to  be  kept  id 
thesB  pots,  if  it  is  for  home  consumption έΑΦ (the  less  it  is  redutr- 
cd,  the  better  is  the  flavour  of  the  Soup) έΑΦ if  it  be  sufliciently 
cooceotrated  to  keep  for  six  months ; έΑΦ if  you  wish  to  preserve 
ii  longer,  put  it  ioto  such  bladders  as  are  used  for  German  Sau- 
sages,έΑΦ^or  if  you  prefer  it  in  the  form  of  Cakes,  pour  it  into  a 
di'^h  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  ;  when  it  is  cold,  turn  it 
out  ^^^  weigh  the  Cake,  and  divide  it  with  a  paste-cutter  into 
pieces  J^f  half  an  ounce  and  an  ounce  each  ;  place  them  io  a 
warm  roomV  an<^  ^^^^  ^^^"*  frequently  till  they  are  thoroughly 

^ried  έΑλ this  vViH  take  a  week  or  ten  days ;  turn  them  twice  a 

day  ;-*^when  weii  hardened,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place,  they  may 
be  preserved  for  sevrrsli  years  in  any  climate. 

This    extract    of   Meat  makes    excellent    "  Tablettes    <fe 
B*millon^^  for  those  who  are  obliged  to  endure  long  fasting. 


έβο.  ^ 


^J 


BROTHS^   ORAVIBS,  AND  SOUPS*  ^5 

If  the  sor&ce  becomes  flM>uldy┬╗  wipe  it  willb  e  Utile  warm 
έΑλ^ater έΑΦ ^the  mouldy  taste  does  not  penetnte  the  mMi. 

If,  after  several  days*  drying,,  it  does  oot  become  lo  hard  as 
you  wish,  put  it  lato  a  Bainmarie  Stewpao,  or  a  Af iUr-doifer, 
(these  are  made  by  Llotd,  TiomaOy  oear  Norfolk-Sueet, 
Strand,)  till  it  is  evaporated  to  the  coosisteace  you  wish έΑΦ or, 
set  the  Pots  ia  a  cool  Oven,  or  ia  a  Cbeeae  Toaster,  at  a  con* 
siderable  distance  from  the  fire ;  this  is  the  only  safe  way  of  re- 
ducing it  very  much,  without  the  risk  of  its  burning,  and  ac- 
quiring an  extremely  disagreeable  acrid  flavour,  &e. 

Obs. έΑΦ ^Tbe  uses  of  this  concentrated  Euence  of  Mtai  are 
numerous.  It  is  equally  economical  and  convenient  for  mak- 
ing eorteinpore  the  Broths  enumerated  in  the  06┬τ.  lo  (No.  900.) 
Sauces  and  Gravies  for  Hashed  or  Stewed  Meat,  Game  or 
Poultry,  &C. 

You  may  thicken  it  and  flavour  it  as  directed  in  (No.  399 ;) 
έΑΦ to  make  GrotTy,  Sauces,  &c.  take  double  the  quantity  order- 
ed for  Broth, 

If  you  have  time  and  opportunity,  as  there  is  no  reasoning  io 
the  Soup,  either  of  Roots,  Herbs,  or  Spice,  boil  an  Onion  with 
or  without  a  bit  of  Parsley,  and  Sweet  Herbs,  and  a  few  corns 
of  Allspice,  or  other  Spice,  in  the  water  you  melt  the  Soup  in, 
which  may  be  flavoured  with  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)^- 
or  Eshallot,  Wine  (No.  402,)έΑΦ Essence  of  Sweet  Herbs  (No. 
417,) έΑΦ Savoury  Spice  (Noh.  421,  or  467,) έΑΦ Essence  of  Cele^ 
ry  (No.  409,)  &c.  or  Zest  (No.  S55;) έΑΦ these  may  be  com- 
bined in  the  proportions  most  agreeable  to  the  palate  of  the 
Eater έΑΦ and  are  as  portable  as  Portable  Soup,  for  a  very  small 
portion  will  flavour  a  Pint. 

The  Editor  adds  nothing  to  the  solution  of  this  Soup,  but  a 
very  little  ground  Black  Pepper  and  some  Salt. 

N,  B.  If  you  are  a  carefal  manag^er,  you  need  not  always  purchase 
Meat  on  purpose  to  make  this, έΑΦ when  you  dress  a  large  Dinner,  you 
can  make  Glaze  at  very  small  cost,  by  taking  care  of  the  trimmiogs 
and  parings  of  the  meat,  game,  and  poultry  yon  use  i  wash  them  well, 
put  Uiem  into  a  Stewpan,  cover  them  with  the  liquor  you  have  boiled 
Meat  in,  and  proceed  as  in  the  above  Receipt ;  and  see  Obs.  on  (No. 
185.) 

Meh.  This  Portable  Soup  is  a' most  convenient  article  in  Cooke- 
ryέΑΦespecially in  Small  Families,  where  it  will  save  a  great  deal  of 
time  and  trouble.  It -is  also  Economical^  for  no  more  will  be  melted 
than  is  wanted-έΑΦ so  there  is  no  waste. 

JVine  pounds  of  Ji'eck  of  Beef  costing  28.  'J^d.  produced  nine  ounces 
of  very  nice  Soup  ',  the  Bones,  when  boiled,  weighed  10  ounces. 


2SS  BROTHS,  OKAVIBS,  AND  SOUPS. 

Haifan  Ox  Cheek,  costing  1j.  9d.  ┬τnd  'weighiBg  14|  pouadty  pro- 
duced 13  ouncesέΑΦ but  not  so  firm  or  clear,  and  far  inferior  ia  flaroor 
to  that  obtained  from  a  Sliin  of  Beef. 

jS  Sheep*t  Head,  costing  9d.  produced  tliree  ounces  and  a  half. 

Two  pound*  of  lean  Meai,  from  the  Blade  Bone  of  Beef,  produced 
hardi/  ao  ounce. 

The  addition  of  an  ounce  of  Oum  jSrabiCf  and  two  ounces  of  /itn^ 
glastf  to  four  ounces  of  the  extract  from  a  Leg  of  Beef,  considerably 
diminished  the  consistence  of  the  mass,  without  adding  to  its  bulk. 

It  has  been  thought  that  the  Portable  Soup  which  is  manufactured 
for  sale έΑΦ is  partly  made  with  Ox  Heeli  ;  but  the  experiment  (No. 
198,)  proves  this  cannot  be,  as  an  ounce  of  the  Jelly  from  Ox  Heel 
costs  6d.  For  the  eheapett  method  of  procuring  a  hard  Jelly,  see  N. 
B.  to  (No.  481) ; έΑΦ 19  Bones,  costing  4^.  produced  three  ounces : έΑΦ 
almost  as  cheap  as  SeUitbwy  G/tie. 

We  are  informed,  that  there  is  now  for  sale  at  Leipsig έΑΦ some  Tuns 
of  Portable  Soup έΑΦ for  Two  Shillings  per  pound.  During  the  late 
war,  there  was  a  great  deal  imported  into  this  country  from  Russia. 

Ji  Knuckle  of  Veal,  weighing  4)  pounds,  and  costing  2t,  4d.  pro* 
duced  five  ounces. 

A  Sbiv  or  Beef,  weighing  nine  pounds,  and  costing  1┬τ.  lO^d.  pro- 
duced nine  ounces  of  concentrated  Soup,  sufficiently  reduced  to  keep 
for  several  months.  After  the  boiling,  the  Bones  in  this  joint  weighed 
two  pounds  and  a  quarter,  and  the  Meat  two  pounds  and  a  quarter. 

The  result  of  these  Experiments  is,  that  the  product  from  tegt  and 
ShinM  of  Beef,  was  almost  as  large  in  quantity,  and  of  nrach  superior 
quality  and  flavour,  to  that  obtained  from  any  of  the  other  materials ; 
.έΑλthe  flavout  of  the  product  from  Mutton,  Veal,  &c.  is  comparatirely 
insipid. 

As  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  this  ready>made  of  good  quality έΑΦ and  we 
could  not  find  any  proper  and  circumstantial  directions  for  making  i^ 
which  on  trial  answered  the  purpose, έΑΦ and  it  is  really  a  great  acquisi- 
tion to  the  Army  and  Navy έΑΦ ^to  Travellers,  Invalids,  &c. έΑΦ ^the  Editor 
has  bestowed  some  time,  &ic.  in  endeavouring  to  learn έΑΦ and  to  teBch 
how  it  may  be  prepared  ia  the  easiest,έΑΦ most  economical  and  perfect 
manner. 

The  ordinary  selling  price  is  from  lOf.  to  12f. έΑΦ but  yon  may  make 
it  according  to  the  above  Receipt  for  Ss.  6d.  per  PoundέΑΦ 4.  e.  for  2^. 
per  Ounce,  which  will  make  you  a  Pint  of  Broth. 

Those  who  do  not  regard  the  expense,  and  like  the  flavour,  may 
add  the  ||ean  of  Ham,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  to  eight  pounds  o( 
Leg  of  Beef. 

It  may  also  be  flavoured,  by  adding  to  it,  at  the  time  you  put  th& 
Broth  into  the  smaller  Stewpan,  Mushroom  Catsup,  Shallot  Wioe, 
Essences  of  Spice  or  Herbs,  he. ', έΑΦ we  prefer  it  quite  plain έΑΦ ^it  is  then 
ready  to  be  converted  in  an  instant  into  a  basin  of  Beef  Tea  for  aa 
Invalid,  and  any  flavor  may  be  immediately  communicated  to  it  by 
the  Magazine  of  Taste  (No.  463.) 


BROTHS,   GRAVIES,   AND  SOUPS*  337 

To  Ckrify  Broth  or  Grceoy.      (No.  26^*.) 

Put  on  ibe  Broth  in  a  clean  Stewpan,  break  the  white  and 
shell  of  an  Egg,  beat  them  together,  put  them  into  the  Broth, 
stir  it  with  a  whisk ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  strain 
ft  through  a  Tammis  or  a  napkin, 

Obs, έΑΦ A  careful  Cook  will  seldom  hare  occasion  to  clsrify 
her  Broths,  &c.  if  prepared  according  to  the  directions  given  in 
(No.  300.) 


THE 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

Melted  Butter^ 

Is  80  simple  and  easy  to  prepare,  it  U  a  matter  of  general 
aurprise,  that  what  is  done  so  ofteo,  ia  every  English  kitdieo, 
is  so  seldom  dooe  right. έΑΦ Foreigners  may  well  say,  that  al- 
though vre  have  only  One  Sauce  for  Vegetables,  Fiab,  Fle^ 
Fowl,  &c. έΑΦ ^we  hardly  ever  make  that  good. 

h  i8  spoiled  nine  times  out  often^  more  from  Idkness,  ikon 
from  Ignorancei  and  rather  because  the  Cook  voo't  tban  be- 
cause she  can't  do  it^*έΑΦ which  cao  only  be  the  ease  whea 
Housekeepers  will  not  allow  Butter  to  do  it  with. 

Good  veltsd  Butter  caonot  be  made  with  mere  floor  and 
water ;  there  must  be  a  Jvti  and  proper  proportion  of  Butter, 
έΑΦAs  it  must  be  always  on  the  Table^  aod  is  the  found atiok 
OF  ALMOST  ALL  OUR  English  SAUCES,  I  have  tried  every  way 
of  making  it,  and  I  trust,  at  last,  that  I  have  written  a  receipt, 
which,  if  the  Cook  will  carefully  observe,  she  will  constantly 
succeed  in  giving  satisfaction. 

In  the  quantities  of  the  various  Sauces  I  have  ordered,  1 
have  had  in  view  the  providing  for  a  Family  of  half  a  dozen 
moderate  people. 

Never  pour  Sauce  over  Meat,  or  even  put  it  into  the  Dish ; 
έΑΦ ^however  well  made,  some  of  the  Company  may  have  an  an- 
tipathy to  it  :-~Taste8  are  as  different  as  Faces : έΑΦ ^moreover,  if 
it  is  sent  up  separate  in  a  boat,  it  will  keep  hot  longer,  and  what 
is  left  may  be  put  by  for  another  time,  or  used  for  another  pur- 
pose. 

LaMly^ έΑΦ Observe,  that  in  ordering  the  proportions  of  Meat, 
Butter,  Wine,  Spice,  &c.  in  the  following  receipts,  ihe  pro* 
per  quantity  ia  set  down,  and  that  a  less  quantity  wul  not  c2o/<έΑΦ 
and  in  some  instances,  those  Palates  which  have  been  aaed  to 


SAtrCSS   AND  dBAVOB. 


the  extreme  of  Piquamce^  will  reqaire  additiMialei 
έΑλ^^If  we  have  erred,  it  has  been  on  the  right  tide,  froa  am 
icNis  wish  to  combiDe  EcoDomy  with  Eleganoey  aod  the  Whole- 
some with  the  Toothsome. 

The  following  we  recommend  as  an  elegant  Relish  to  finish 
Soups  and  Sauces. 

zest; 

For  Chops^  SauctBy 

AND 

Made  Dishes. 

(No.  265,) 

This  piquanie  qaintestence  of  Ragout,  imparts  to  what 

ever  it  toaches  the  most  delicious  Relish  ever  imagined ; 

-it  awakens  the  Palate  with  delight,    refreshes  Appe- 

tite,-^and  instaotlj  excites  the  good  hnmour  (of  crery 

auin*s  master)  the  Stomach. 

Sean  madt  Saoovtry  Sauce. 
Stir  two  drachms  of  ZEST  into  half  a  pint  of  melted 
butter  (No.  256.)    Let  it  boil  ap,  and  strain  it  through  έΑλ 
sieire ; έΑΦ or  each  Guest  may  add  it,  at  taUe,  like  Salt,  and 
adjust  the  Tibration  of  his  Fslate  to  his  own  Fancy. 

Sold  at  BvTLsa's  Herfo-shop,   opposite  Henrietta 
Street,  Covent  Qardea ;  where  may  be  had  **  Ths  Coojl's 
Oracle.'' 
It  will  keep  for  any  time,  in  any  Climate. 


MdUd  Butter.  (No.  U6.) 

i&eep  a  pint  stewpanf  for  this  purpose  only. 


*'Tbis  may  be  easily  accomplished  by  the  aid  of  the  Whip  and 
Spur  that  Students  of  long  standing  in  the  School  of  Good  Living  are 
generally  so  fond  of  enlivening  theur  palate  with  ┬╗.  e.  Cayenne  and 
Gariick. 

Pabslbt  rNo.  261,)  Ch┬τrt7L  (No.  264,)  Celery  (No.  289,)  Cress 
(No.  397*,)  Tarragon  (No.  396,)  BiTrnet  (No.  899,)  Basil  (No.  897,) 
SsH allot  (No.  295  and  408,)  Caper  (No.  274  and  295,)  Fehrel 
(No.  265,)  Liter  (Nos.  287  and  288,)  Curry  (Nos.  848  and  455,)  Ego 
(No.  267,)  Mushroom  (No.  403,)  Aivchovv  (Nos.  270  and  433,)  Ra- 
έΑλ┬τonT<(No8.421  and  457,)  Shrimp  (No.  283,)  Boitne  Bouchb  (No. 
341^)  Superlative  (No.  429,)  and  various  Flavouring  Essences.  See 
from  (No  396  to  468.) 

Any  of  the  above  Vegetables,  &c.  may  be  minced  very  finely,  and 
sent  to  table  on  a  little  plate,  and  those  who  like  their  flavour  may  mix 
them  with  Melted  Butter,  &c.  Thisis  a  hint  for  Economists,  which 
will  save  them  many  pounds  of  Butter,  &c.      See  Mem.  to  (No.  256.) 

t  A  Silver  Saucepan  is  infinitely  the  best, έΑΦ ^you  may  have  oae  big 
enough  to  melt  butter  for  a  moderate  Amily  for  four  or  five  pounds. 


940  aHAVIES   AKD  SAUCSS. 

Cat  two  oanoes  of  Baltw  into  little  bits,  that  it  majr  aielt 
more  easily*  and  mix  more  readily  ; έΑΦ put  it  into  tbe  ^wpan 
with  a  large  teaapoonfal  (t.  e,  about  tbree  drachms)  of  Flour, 
some  prefer  Arrow  Root  or  Potatoe  StorcA  (No.  448,)  and  two 
tablespooDsfal  of  Milk. 

Whea  thoroughly  mixed, έΑΦ add  six  tablespoonsfiil  of  water; 
hold  it  OFer  tbe  fire,  and  shake  it  round  every  miooti^,  (all  the 
while  the  same  way,)  till  it  just  begins  to  simmer,  then  let  it 
stand  quietly  and  boil  op.  It  should  be  of  tbe  thickaess  of 
goodoream. 

N.  B.  Two  tablespoonsfol  of  (No.  434,)  instead  of  the 
milk,  will  make  as  good  JIfusAroem  Sauce^  as  need  be,  and  te  a 
Superlative  aeeompaniment  to  either  Fish, έΑΦ Flesb,έΑΦ or  Fowl. 

O&s.έΑΦ -This  is  the  best  way  of  preparing  melted  butter ; έΑΦ 
Milk  mixes  with  the  Butter  much  more  easily,  and  more  inti- 
mately than  Water  alone  can  be  made  to  do.  Thi┬τ  is  of  pro- 
per thickness  to  be  mixed  at  table  with  Flavouring  Essences, 
Anchovy,  Mushroom,  or  Cavice,  ^c.  If  made  merely  to  pour 
over  Vegetables,  add  a  little  more  milk  to  it. 

N.  B.  If  the  BuTTBR  Oils,  put  a  spoonful  of  cold  water  to 
it  and  stir  it  with  a  spoon, έΑΦ if  it  is  very  much  oiled,  it  must  be  - 
poured  backwards  and  forwards  from  the  Sl9wpan  to  tbe  Sauce- 
boat  till  it  is  right  again. 

Mem.  Melted  Butter  made  to  be  mixed  with  flavouring  Es- 
sences, Catsups,  &c.  should  be  of  the  thickness  of  light  Batter 
that  it  may  adhere  to  tbe  Fish,  &c. 

Thickening.  (No.  257.) 

Clarified  butter  is  best  for  this  purpose ;  but  if  you  have  none 
ready,  put  some  Fresh  Butter  into  a  stewpan  over  a  slow  clear 
fire  ; έΑΦ when  it  is  melted,  add  iine  Flour  sufficient  to  make  it 
tbe  thickness  of  paste ;  stir  it  well  tocher  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  flfteeo  or  twenty  niipeTles,  till  it  is  quite  smooth,' and 
the  colour  of  a  Guinea  :  this  must  be  done  very  gradually  and 
patiently,  if  you  put  it  over  too  fierce  a  fire  to  hurry  it,  it  will 
become  bitter  and  empyreumatic :  pour  it  into  an  earthen  pan, 
and  keep  it  for  use.  It  will  keep  good  k  fortnight  in  Summer, 
and  longer  in  Winter. 


GRAVIES    AKD   SAUCU.  211 

A  large  spoonful  will  generally  be  enough  to  ihicVen  a  Qaart 
of  Gravy. 

O&s. έΑΦ ^This  in  the  French  kitchen  is  called  Roux.  Be  par- 
ticularly attentive  in  making  of  it ;  if  it  gets  any  burnt  smell  or 
taste,  it  will  spoil  every  thing  H  is  put  into,  see  Obs,  to  (No. 
332.)  When  cold  it  should  be  thick  enough  to  cut  out  with  a 
koife,  like  a  solid  paste. 

It  is  a  very  essential  article  in  the  kitchen,  and  is  the  basis  of 
consistency  io  most  made  dishes,  soups,  sauces,  and  ragouts ; έΑΦ , 
if  the  Gravies,  &c.  are  too  thin,  add  this  Thickening,  more  or 
less,  according  to  the  consistence  you  would  wish  them  to  have. 

Mem.  In  making  Thickening, έΑΦ the  less  Butter,  and  the 
more  Flour  you  use,  the  better ; έΑΦ they  must  be  thoroughly 
worked  together,  and  the  broth,  or  soup,  &c.  you  put  them  to, 
added  by  degrees  ; έΑΦ take  special  care  to  incorporate  them  well 
together,  or  your  sauces,  &c.  will  taste  floury,  and  have  a  dis- 
gusting greasy  appearance  ; έΑΦ therefore,  after  you  have  thicken- 
ed your  sauce,  add  to  it  some  broth,  or  warm  water,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  two  tablespoonsful  to  a  pint,  and  set  it  by  the  side  of 
the  fire,  to  raise  any  fat,  &c.  that  is  not  thoroughly  incorporated 
with  the  gravy,  which  you  must  carefully  remove  as  it  comes  to 
the  top.     This  is  called,  cleansing,  or  finishing  the  sauce. 

*^*  Half  an  ounce  of  Butter,  and  a  tableapoonfid  of  Flour ^ 
are  ibout  the  jyrqpartien  for  a  pint  of  Sauce,  to  rnake  it  as  thick 
as  Cream, 

N.  B.  The  Fat  Skimmings  off  the  top  of  the  Broth  Pot  are 
sometimes  substituted  for  Butter,  see  (No.  940,) έΑΦ some  Cooks 
merely  thicken  their  Soups  and  Sauces  with  FUmr,  as  we  have 
directed  in  (No.  24&,)  or  Poi$Ltoe  Farina  (No.  44&) 

.  Clarijied  Butter.  (No.  259.) 

Put  the  Butter  in  a  nice  clean  stewpan,  over  a  very  clear  slow 
fire,  watch  it,  and  when  it  is  melted,  carefully  skim  off  ther  but- 
termilk, &c.  which  will  swim  on  the  top  ; έΑΦ let  it  stand  a  minute 
or  two,  for  the  impurities  to  sfiik  to  the  bottom,έΑΦ then  pour  the 
clear  butter  through  a  sieve,  into  a  clean  basin,  leaving  the  sedi- 
ment at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan. 

Obs. έΑΦ Butter  thus  purified,  will  be  as  sweet  as  Marrow, έΑΦ a 
very  useful  coverin'pfor  Potted  Meats,  &c.  and  for  frying  Fish, 
equal  to  the  finest  Florence  oil,  for  which  purpose  it  is  com- 
21 


242  GRAVIES   AN^D   SAUCES. 

inoDly  used  by  Catholics,  and  those  whose  religious  teneis  will 
not  allow  them  to  eat  viands  fried  id  animal  oil. 

Burnt  Butter,  <No.  260.) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  Butter  into  a  small  fryingpan,  when 
it  becoincs  a  dark  brown  colour,  add  to  it  a  tabiespoonful  and 
a  half  of  good  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

06s. έΑΦ This  is  used  as  sauce  for  boiled  Fish,  or  poacfaied 
Eggs. 

OUed  Butter.  (No.  ^60*.) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  Butter  into  a  saucepan,  set  it  at  a 
distance  from  the  fire,  so  that  it  may  melt  gradually,  till  it 
comes  to  an  oil, έΑΦ and  pour  it  off  quietly  from  the  dregs. 

Obs, έΑΦ This  will  supply  the  place  of  Olive  Oil,  and  by  some 
is  preferred  to  it,  either  for  Salads,  or  Frying. 

Parsley  and  Butter.  (No.  261.) 

Wash  some  Parsley  yery  clean,  and  pick  it  carefully  leaf  by 
leaf ;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
boil  the  Parsley  about  ten  minutes,  d^rain  it  on  a  sieve,  miooe  it 
quite  fioe,  and  then  bruise  it  to  a  pulp. 

The  delicacy  and  excellence  of  this  elegant  and  innoceot 
Jlelish,  depends  upon  the  Parsley  being  mioced  very  fine ; έΑΦ 
put  it  into  a  sauce  boat,  and  mix  with  it  by  degrees  ┬τbout  half 
a  pint  of  good  melted  butter,  (No.  S56,)  only  do  ootpatso 
much  flour  to  it,  as  the  Parsley  will  add  to  its  thickness, έΑΦ 
never  pout  Parsley  and  Butter  over  boiled  things,  but  send  it 
up  in  a  Boat. 

.06s. έΑΦ In  French  Cookery  Books,  this  is  called  **  Melted 

Butter,  English  FosAion,*'  and,  with  the  addition  of  a  slice  of 

lemon  cut  into  dice,  a  little  Allspice  and  Vinegar,  ^*  DutcA 

Sauce.^^ 

N.  B.  To  Preserve  Parsley  through  the  winter, έΑΦ io  June  or 
July,  lake  fine  fresh  gathered  sprigs,  pick  ┬τnd  wash  them  clean, 
┬τet  on  a  stewpan  half  full  of  water,  put  a  little  salt  in  it,  boil  and 
skim  it  clean,  and  then  put  In  the  Parsley  and  let  it  boil  for  a  couple 
of  minutes,  and  take  it  out  and  lay  it  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  that 
it  may  be  dvied  as  quick  as  possible, έΑΦ put  it  by  in  a  Tin  Box,  and 
keep  it  in  a  dry  place, έΑΦ when  you  want  it,  lay  it  on  a  Basin,  and 
cover  it  with  warm  -water  a  few  minutes  before  you  use  it. 

Gooseberry  Sauc^.,  (No.  263.) 

Top  and  Tail  ihem  close  with  a  pair  Of  Scissors,  and  scald 
half  a  pint  of  green  Gooseberries,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve, 
and  put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  Butter  (No.  256.) 


GRAVIES    AND   SAX3CES.  243 

Some  add  grated  Ginger  and  Lemon  Peel,  and  the  Frencb, 
minced  Fennel, έΑΦ others  send  up  the  Gooseberries  irbote,  or 
mashed,  wilhout  any  butler,  &c. 

Chervil, έΑΦ Basil, έΑΦ Tarragon, έΑΦ Burnet, έΑΦ Cress, έΑΦ and 

Butter.  (No.  264.) 

This  id  the  6rst  time  that  Chervil,  which  has  so  long  been  a 
favourite  with  the  sagacious  French  Cook,  has  been  introduced 
into  an  EInglish  book. έΑΦ Its  flavour  Is  a  strong  concentration  of 
the  combined  taste  of  Parsley  and  Fennel,  but  more  aromatic 
and  agreeable  than  either  ;  and  is  an  excellent  sauce  with  boil* 
ed  Poultry  or  Bisb.  Prepare  it,  &c.  as  we  have  directed  for 
Parsley  and  Butter,  (No.  261.) 

Ferniel  anA  Butter  for  Mackerel^  Sfc,      (No.  265.) 

Is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  just  described  ia 
(No.  261.) 

Obs. έΑΦ For  Mackerel  sauce,  or  boiled  Soles,  &c. έΑΦ some  peo- 
ple take  equal  parts  of  Fennel  and  Parsley ; έΑΦ others  add  a  sprig 
of  Mint^ έΑΦ or  a  couple  of  young  Onions  mioced  very  fine. 

MackerdRoe  Sauce*  (No.  266.) 

Boil  the  Roes  of  Mackerel,  (soft  roes  are  best,)-  bruise  them 
with  a  spoon  with  the  yolk  of  an  Egg,  beat  up  with  a  very  lit- 
tle pepper,  and  salt,  and  some  Fenoel  and  Parsley  boiled  and 
chopped  very  fine,  mixed  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  thia  melted 
butter,  see  (No.  256.) 
.  Mushroom  catsup,  Walnut  pickle,  or  Soy,  may  be  added.- 

Egg  Sauce.  (No.  267.) 

This  agreeable  accompaniment  to  roasted  Poultry, έΑΦ or  salt- 
ed Fish, έΑΦ is  made  by  putting  three  Eggs  into  boiling  water, 
and  boiling  them  for  about  twelve  minutes,  when  they  will  be 
hard,  put  them  into  cold  water  till  you  waot  them,έΑΦ this  will 
make  the  Yolks  firmer,  and  prevent  their  surface  turning  black, 
and  you  can  cut  them  much  neater, έΑΦ use  only  two  of  the 
Whiles  ;  cut  the  Whites  into  small  dice, έΑΦ the  Yolks  into  bits 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square, έΑΦ put  them  into  a  Sauce-boat, 
pour  to  them  half  a  pint  of  melted  Butter,  and  stir  them  to- 
gether. 

Obs. έΑΦ The  Melted  Butter  for  Egg  Sauce  need  not  be  made 
^uite  so  thick  as  if  No.  256.) 

N.  B.  Some  Cooka  garnish  Salt  Fish  with  hard  boiled  egge 
c&i  ia  half 


244  GRAVIES    AND  SAUCES* 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce.  (No.  269.) 

A  glass  of  Sherry,  half  a  glass  of  Brandy,  for  ^'  Cherry- 
Bounce,'')  or  Curacoa  (No.  474,)  or  Essence  of  Piiocli  (^o. 
471  and  479,)  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  pounded  Jump  sugar, 
(a  very  litde  grated  Lemon  Peel  is  sontetimes  added^)  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  Thick  melted  butter  :  grate  Nutmeg  on  the 
top. 

See  Pudding  Catsup^  (No.  446.) 

Anchovy  Sauce,  (No.  270.) 

Found  three  Anchovies  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  bit  of  But- 
ter, rub  it  through  a  double  Hair  sieve,  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon,  and  stir  it  into  almost  half  a  pint  of  Melted 
butler  (No.  256 ;)  or,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  Esitnce  of 
Jinchovxj  (No.  438.) έΑΦ To  the  above  many  cooks  add  Lemon 
Juice,  and  Cayenne. 

068. έΑΦ Forei┬μ;ners  make  this  Sauce  with  good  Brown  Sauce 
(No.  319,)  or  White  Sauce  (No.  364,)  instead  of  melted  But- 
ter,έΑΦ and  add  to  it  Catsup, έΑΦ Soy, έΑΦ and  some  of  their  flavour- 
ed Vinegars,  as  Elder  or  Tarragon, έΑΦ Pepper  and  fine  Spice, 
έΑΦ Sweet  herbf , έΑΦ Capers, έΑΦ Eshaliots,  &c.  They  serve  li  with 
most  Roasted  Meats. 

N.  B.  Keep  your  Anchovies  well  covered,  first  tie  down 
your  Jar  with  Bladder  moistened  with  vinegar,  and  then  wiped 
dry  ;  tie  Leather  over  that, έΑΦ when  you  open  a  Jar, moisten  the 
bladder,  and  it  will  come  off  easily, έΑΦ as  soon  as  you  have  taken 
out  the  Fish,  replace  the  coverings, έΑΦ the  Air  soon  rusts  and 
spoils  Anchovies.     See  (No.  433,)  &c. 

Garlick  Sauce.  (No.  272.) 

Pound  two  cloves  of  Garlick  with  a  piece  of  fresh  Butler 
about  ad  big  as  a  Nutmeg  ;  rub  it  through  a  double  hair  sieve, 
add  stir  it  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  Beef  Gravy ;  or 
make  it  with  Garlick  Vinegar  (Nos.  400,  401  and  402.) 

Lemon  Sauce,  (No.  273.) 

Pare  a  Lemon,  and  cut  it  into  slices  twice  as  thick  as  a  half- 
crown  piece  ;  divide  these  into  Dice,  and  put  them  into  a  quar* 
ter  of  a  pint  of  Melted  Butter  (No.  266.) 

Ofes. έΑΦ Some  Cooks  mince  a  bit  of  the  Lemon  Peel  (pared 
very  thin)  veryfine^  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Caper  Sawce.έΑΦ (No.  274.)     See  also  (No.  295.) 

To  make  a  Quarter  Pint, έΑΦ take  a  tablespoonful  of  Capers 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Vinegar, 


GRAVIES    AND   SAUCES.  ^43 


The  jpresent  fashion  of  cutting  Copers, έΑΦ is  to  nixkoe 
third  of  them  very  fine,  aod  divide  the  others  id  half;  pot  tbem 
into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  Butter,  or  good  thickeaed 
Gravy  (No.  3^9,)  stir  them  the  same  way  as  yoo  did  the  mete- 
ed  butter,  or  it  will  oil. 

06s. έΑΦ Some  boil,  and  mince  fine  a  few  leaves  of  Paisley,  or 
Ctiervil,  or  Tarragon,  and  add  these  to  the  sauce  ;^-others  tlw 
Juice  of  half  a  St-viiie  Orange,  or  Lemon. 

Mejn. έΑΦ Keep  the  Caper  bottle  very  closely  corked,  and  do 
not  use  any  of  the  Caper  liquor  ; έΑΦ if  the  Capers  are  not  well 
covered  with  it,  they  will  immediately  spoil,  and  it  is  an  excel- 
lent ingredient  in  Hashes,  &;c.  The  Dutch  use  it  as  a  Fish 
Sauce,  mixing  it  with  Melted  butter. 

Afocilc  Caper  Sauce.     (No.  275  or  295.) 

Cut  some  pickled  Green  Peas, έΑΦ French  Beans, έΑΦ Gherkins, 
-έΑΦor  Nastertiums,  into  bits  the  size  of  Capers  ;  piit  them  into 
half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  with  two  teaspoonsful  of  Lemon 
juice,  or  nice  Vinegar. 

Oyster  Sauce.  (No.  278.) 

Choose  Plump  and  Juicy  Natives  for  this  purpose; έΑΦ donU 
take  them  out  of  i^eir  Shell  till  you  put  them  into  the  Stewpan^ 
see  06s.  to  (No.  181.) 

To  make  good  Oyster  Sauce  for  half  a  dozen  hearty  Fish 
Eaters,  you  cannot  have  le^s  than  three  or  four  dozen  Oysters. 
έΑΦ Save  their  Liquor,  strain  it,  and  put  it  and  tbem  into  a  stew- 
pan  ;  as  soon  as  they  boil  and  the  fish  plump,  take  them  off 
the  Fire,  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  sttMvpan  into  a  sieve  over 
a  clean  basin,  wash  the  stewpan  out  with 'hot  water,  and  put  in- 
to it  the  strained  liquor,  with  about  an  equal  quantity  ot  Milk, 
and  about  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  Butter,  with  which  you 
have  well  rubbed  a  large  tablespoonful  of  Flour, έΑΦ give  it  a  boil 
up,  and  pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  (that  the  Sauce 
may  be  quite  smooth,)  and  then  back  again  into  the  saucepan, 
έΑΦ now,  shave  the  Oysters,  and  (if  you  have  the  honour  of  mak- 
ing sauce  for  **  a  Committee  of  Taste,  ^  take  away  the  gristly 
part  also,)  put  in  only  the  soft  part  of  the  Oysters,  (if  they 
are  very  l^rge  cut  them  in  half,)  and  set  them  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  keep  hot,  '*  if  they  boil  after,  they  will  become  hard." 

If  you  have  not  Liquor  enough,  add  a  little  Melted  Butter, 
or  Cream,  see  (No.  388,)  or  Milk  beat  up  with  the  yolk  of  an 
^SSj  (t^i^  "^us^  i^ot  be  put  in  till  the  sauce  is  done.)     Some 
21* 


246  GRAVIES   AND  SAUCES. 

barbarous  Cooks  add  Pepper, έΑΦ or  Mace, έΑΦ tbe  juice  or  pee/  of 
a  Lemon, έΑΦ Horseradish, έΑΦ Essence  of  Aocbovy, έΑΦ Cayeooe, 
&c. ; έΑΦ but  Plaio  Sauces  are  only  to  taste  of  tbe  logredieot 
from  which  tbev  derive  tbeir  name. 

06s. έΑΦ It  will  very  much  heighten  the  flavour  of  this  Saocef 
to  pound  the  soft  part  of  half  a  dozen  (unboiled)  Oysters,  rub 
it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  sauce : έΑΦ this 
Essence  of  Oyster  (and  tor  some  palates  a  few  grains  of 
Cayenne)  is  the  only  addition  we  recommend.  See  (No. 
441.) 

Preserved  Oysters.  (No.  280.) 

Open  the  Oysters  carefully,  so  as  not  to  cut  them  except  in 
dividing  the  gristle  which  attaches  the  shells, έΑΦ put  them  into  a 
Mortar,  and  when  you  have  got  as  many  as  you  can  coDvenient- 
ly  pound  at  once,  add  about  two  drachms  of  Salt  to  a  dozen 
Oysters, έΑΦ pound  them  and  rub  them  through  the  back  of  a 
hair  sieve,  and  put  them  into  a  mortar  again,  with  as  much 
Flour  (which  has  been  previously  thoroughly  dried)  as  will 
make  them  into  a  paste,  roll  it  out  several  times,  aod  lastly, 
flour  it  and  roll  it  out  the  thickness  of  a  half  crown,  and  divide 
it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  lay  them  in  a  Dutch  oven, 
where  they  will  dry  so  gently  as  not  to  get  burned, έΑΦ turn  them 
every  half  hour,  and  when  they  begin  to  dry,  crumble  them, έΑΦ 
they  \w\\]  take  about  four  hours  to  dry, έΑΦ then  pound  tbem  fine, 
sift  them  and  put  into  bottles,  and  seal  them  over. 

N.  B,  Three  dozen  Natives  required  7  1-2  ounces  o! 
dried  Fiour  to  make  them  into  a  paste,  which  then  weighed  II 
ounces, έΑΦ when  dried  and  powdered,  6  1-4  ounces. 

To  make  half  a  pint  of  Sauce,  put  one  ounce  of  Butter  into 
a  stewpan,  with  three  drachms  of  Oyster  powder,  and  six  ta- 
blespoonsful  of  milk  ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  it  till  it  boils, 
and  season  it  with  salt. 

This  Powder,  if  made  with  Plump  Juicy  Natives,  will 
abound  with  the  flavour  of  the  Fish,  and  if  closely  corked,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  piacn,  will  remain  good  for  some  time. 

06s. έΑΦ This  Extract  is  a  welcome  succedaneum  while  Oys- 
ters are  out  of  season,  and  in  such  inland  parts  as  seldom  have 
auy,   is  a  valuable  addition  to  the  list  of  Fish  saucea :  it  is 


6IEAVIE9  AKD  SATJC^,  347 

equally  good  with  boiled  Fowl,  or  Ramp  SleaV,έΑΦ tDd  spria- 
kied  on  Bread  and  Batter  makes  a  very  good  Saodwich,  aod  is 
especially  worthy  the  notice  of  Country  Housekeepers έΑΦ and  as 
a  Store  Sauce  for  the  Army  aad  Navy.  See  Anchovy  P&wder 
(No.  435.) 

Shrimp  Sauce,  (No.  283.) 

Shell  a  pint  of  Shrimps,  pick  them  clean,  wash  them,  and 
put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  good  Melted  Butter. 

Obs, έΑΦ Some  stew  the  Heads  and  Shells  of  the  Shrimps, 
(with  or  without  a  blade  of  bruised  Mace,)  tor  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  strain  off  the  liquor  to  melt  the  butter  with,  and  add 
a  little  Lemon  Juice, έΑΦ Cayenne, έΑΦ and  Essence  of  Anchovy, 
έΑΦor  Soy,έΑΦ Cavice,  &c.έΑΦ but  the  Flavour  of  the  Shrimp  is  so 
delicaU,  it  will  be  overcome  by  any  ot  those  additions. 

Lobster  Sauce.  (No.  284.) 

Choose  a  fine  Spawny  Hen  Lobster,+  be  sure  it  is  fresh,  so 
get  a  live  one  if  you  can,  (one  of  my  culinary  predecessors 
says,  "  let  it  be  heavy  and  lively  *^)  and  boil  it  as  (No.  17.6,) 
pick  out  the  Spawn  and  the  Red  Coral  into  a  mortar,  add  to  it 
half  an  ounce  of  Butter,  pound  it  quite  smooth,  and  rub  it 
through  a  hair  sieve  with, the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon  ;  cut  the 
meat  of  the  Lobster  into  small  squares,  or  pull  it  to  pieces  with 
a  fork,  put  the  pounded  Spawn  into  as  much  melted  Butter 
(No.  256,)  as  you  think  will  do,  and  stir  it  together  till  it  is 
thoroughly  mixed, έΑΦ now  put  to  it  the  meat  of  the  Lobster,  and 
warm  it  on  the  fire,  take  care  it  does  not  boil^  which  udill  spoil  its 
complexion^  and  its  brilliant  Red  colour  icill  immediately  fade. 

The  above  is  a  very  easy  and  excellent  manner  of  making 
this  Sauce. 

Some  use  strong  Beef  or  Veal  Gravy  instead  of  melted  But- 
ter, adding  Anchovy,  Cayenne,  Catsup,  Cavice,  Lemon  juice 
or  pickle,  or  Wine,  &c. 

06s. έΑΦ Save  a  little  of  the  inside  Red  Coral  Spawn,  and  rub 
it  through  a  sieve  (without  butter)  ; έΑΦ it  is  a  very   ornamental 

rnisb  to  sprinkle  over  Fish  ;  and  if  the  skin  is  broken  (which 


t  You  must  have  a  Hen  Lobster,  on  account  of  the  Live  Spawn 

me  Fishmongers  have  a  cruel  custom  of  tearing  this  from  the  Fish 
eforc  they  are  boihd  ; έΑΦ lift  up  the  tail  of  the  Lobster,  and  see  that  it 
as  not  been  robbed  of  its  Eggs  ; έΑΦ the  goodness  of  your  Sauce  depends 
ipon  its  having  a  full  share  of  the  Spawn  in  it,  to  which  it  owes  not 
nerely  its  brilliant  Red  Colour,  but  th┬τ  finest  part  of  its  Flavour. 


24S  a&AVlBS  AND  UVCM&* 

will  BometimeB  happeo  to  the  most  carefi)}  Cook^  wben  ihre  is 
a  large  dinaer  to  draes,  and  xoany  other  tbiogs  to  attend  to,) 
you  will  find  it  a  conTenieot  and  elegaot  Veil,  to  cooceal  ^oar 
miBfortUDe  from  the  pryiDg  eyes  of  piscivorous  Gourmand;^ 

N.  B.  Various  methods  have  been  tried  to  Preserve  Lo┬╗- 
stERs,  see  (No.  1T8,)  and  Lobster  Spawn,  for  a  Store  Sauce. 
The  Live  Spawn  may  be  kept  some  time  in  stroog  Salt  and 
Water έΑΦ or  in  an  Ice  House. 

The  following  process  might,  perhaps,  preserve  it  longer  ;έΑΦ 
Put  it  into  a  Saucepan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  Salt  in  it,  and  let  it  boil  quick  for  ^ve  minutes  ;  then  draio 
it  on  a  hair  sieve,  spread  it  out  thin  on  a  plate,  and  set  it  in  a 
Dutch  Oven  till  it  is  thoroughly  dried, έΑΦ grind  it  in  a  clean  mill, 
and  pack  it  closely  iti  well-stopped  Bottles.  See  also  Potted 
Lobstersy  (No.  178.) 

Sauce  for  Lobsters,  Sfc. έΑΦ (No.  285.)     See  also  (No.  372.) 

Bruise  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  Eggs  with  the  back  of 
a  wooden  spoon,  or  rather  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a  tea- 
spoonfu)  of  water,  and  the  soft  inside  and  the  spawn  of  the 
lobster,  rub  them  quite  smooth,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  made 
Mustard,  two  tabfespoonsful  of  Salad  Oil,  and  five  of  Vinegar; 
season  it  with  a  very  little  Cayenne  ^^epperand  some  salt. 

Obs. έΑΦ To  this.  Elder  or  Tarragon  Vinegar  (No.  396,)  or 
Anchovy  Essence,  (No.  433,)  is  occasionally  added. 

Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce, έΑΦ (No.  287.) έΑΦ or  Liver  and 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Wash  the  Liver  (it  must  be  perfectly  fresh)  of  a  Fowl  or 
Rabbit,  and  boil  it  five  minutes  in  five  tablespoonsful  o(  wa- 
ter ; έΑΦ chop  it  fine  ;  or  pound  or  bruise  it  in  a  small  quao^hy  of 
the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve : έΑΦ wasb 
about  one-third  the  bulk  of  Parsley  leaves,  put  them  on  toboil 
in  a  little  foiling  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  it ;  lay  il 
on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  mince  it  very  fine;  mix  it  wi^h 
the  liver,  and  put  it  into  a  quarter  pint  of  melted  butler,  and 
warm  it  up  ; έΑΦ do  not  1ft  it  boil. 

Or, 

To  malce  Lemon  and  Liver  Sauce, 

Pare  off  the  rind  of  a  Lemon,  or  of  a  Seville  Orange,  as  tbia 

as  pofl'si!  le,  so  as  not  to  cut  offany  of  the  White  with  it; έΑΦ now 

cut  oiTail  the  white,  and  cut  the  Lemon  into  slices,  about  as 


GRAVIES    AND  SAUCES.  249 

thick  as  a  coupla  of  half-crowns;  pick  out  ibe  pipe,  and  di- 
vide the  slices  into  small  squares  ;  add  these,  and  a  little  of  the 
peel  minced  very  fine,  to  the  Liver,  prepared  as  directed  above 
and  put  them  into  the  melted  Butter,  and  vparm  them  together, 
έΑΦ but  do  not  let  them  boil. 

N.  B.  The  Poulterers  can  always  let  you  have  freik  Livers 
έΑΦ if  that  of  the  Fowl  or  Rabbit  is  not  good,  or  not  large  enongh 
to  make  as  much  Sauce  as  you  wish. 

Obs, έΑΦ Some  Cooks,  instead  of  pounding, έΑΦ mince  the  Liver 
very  fine  (with  half  as  much  Bacon),  and  leave  out  the  Pars- 
ley,έΑΦ-others  add  the  juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  and  some  of  the 
Peel  grated, έΑΦ or  a  teaspoon ful  of  Tarragon  or  Chili  Vinegar, 
a  tablespoonful  of  White  Wine,  or  a  little  beaten  Mace  or 
Nutmeg,  or  Allspice : έΑΦ if  you  wish  it  a  little  more  lively  on 
the  palate,  pound  a  Shallot,  or  a  few  leaves  of  Tarragon  or 
Basil,  with  Anchovy  or  Catsup,  or  Cayenne, 

Idver  Sauce  for  Fish.  (No.  988.) 

Boil  the  Liver  of  the  Fish^and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a 
little  flour,  stir  it  into  some  Broth,  or  some  of  the  liquor  the 
Fish  was  boiled  in,  or  melted  Butter,  Parsley,  and  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne  ;έΑΦoa  little  Essence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433,)  or  Soy, 
or  Catsup  (No.  439)  ;┬τ--^ive  it  a  boil  up,  and  rub  it  through  a 
sieve : έΑΦ you  may  add  a  little  Lemon  Juice^^or  Lemon  cat  in 
dice. 

Celery  Sauce,  White.  (No.  289.) 

Pick  and  wash  two  heads  of  nice  white  Celery ;  cut  it  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  long  ;  stew  it  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  till  the  Celery  is  tender*;  roll  an  ounce  of 
butter  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  add  this  to  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  give  it  a  boil  up. 

N.  a.     See  (No.  409.) 

Celery  Sauce,  Purie,  for  hoUed  Turkey,  Veal,  Fowls,  Sfc, 

(No.  290.) 

Cut  small  half  a  dozen  heads  of  nice  white  Celery  that  is 
qui^e  clean,  and  two  Onions  sliced  ;    put  in  a  two-quart  Stew- 

┬╗  So  much  dependls  upon  the  age  of  .the  Celery,  we  cannot  give 
miy  precise  time  for  this.  Young  fresh-gathered  Celery,  will  be 
enough  in  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  old  will  sometimes  talie  twice 
as  long. 


250  GRAVIES   ANB    SAUCES. 

pan,  with  a  small  lump  of  Butter ;  sweat  them  over  a  slonr  fire 
till  quite  teuder,  then  put  ia  two  spooDsfuI  of  flour,  half  a  piot 
of  water  (or  Beef  or  Veal  Broth,)  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  lUtie 
cream  or  milk ;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  pass  through 
a  fine  bair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

If  you  wish  for  Celery  sauce,  when  Celery  is  not  in  season, 
a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  Celery-seedf  or  a  little  Ksseoce  of 
Celery  (No.  409,)  will  impregnate  half  a  pint  of  sauce  with 
a  sufficient  portion  of  the  flavour  of  the  Vegetable. 

See  06s.  to  (No.  214.) 

Greerij  or  Sorrel  Sauce,  (No.  291.) 

Wash  and  clean  a  large  Ponnet  of  Sorrel,  put  it  into  a 
Stevvpan  that  will  just  hold  it,  with  a  bit  of  Butter  the  size  of 
an  Egg,  cover  it  close,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  pass  the  Sorrel  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spooa  through 
a  hair  sieve,  season  with  Pepper,  Salt,  and  a  small  pinch  of 
powdered  Sugar,  make  it  hot,  and  serve  up  under  Lamb,  Veal,. 
Sweetbreads,  &c.  &c.  Cayenne,  Nutmegi  and  Lemon. 
Juice,  are  sometimes  added. 

Tomato,  or  Love-apple  Sauce, έΑΦ (No.  292.)    See  aZs┬╗  (443.); 

Have  twelve  or  fifteen  Tomatas  ripe,  and  red  ;  take  off  the 
stalk ;  cut  them  in  half,  squeeze  them  just  enough  to  get  all  the 
water  and  seeds  out ;  put  ttiem  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  (Japsicum, 
and  two  or  three  tablespoonsful  of  Beef  Gravy ;  set  them  on  a 
slow  stove  for  an  hour,  or  till  properly  melted  ;  then  rub  them 
through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  a  little  white  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  let  them  simmer  together  a  few  minutes. 

N.  B.  To  the  above  tbe  French  Cook  adds  an  Onion  or 
Eshallot,  a  Cbve  or  two,  or  a  little  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

Mock  Tomata    Sauce.  (No.  293.) 

The  only  difference  between  this,  and  genuine  Love-apple 
Sauce,  is  the  substituting  the  pulp  of  Apple  for  that  of  Toma- 
ta, colouring  it  with  Turmerfc,  and  communicating  an  acid  fla- 
vour to  it  by  vinegar. 

Shallot  Sauce.  (No.  294.) 

Take  four  Shallots,  and  make  it  in  the  same  manner  as 
Garlic  Sauce  (No.  272.) 

Or, 
You  may  make  this  sauce  more  extemporaneously,  by  put- 
ting two  tablespoonsful  of  Shallot  Wine  (No.  403,).  and  a 


GRAVIES  AND   SAUCES.  251 

sprinkling  of  Pepper  and  Salt,  into  (almost)  half  a  pint  of 
tbick  melted  Butter. 

,06& έΑΦ This  is  an  excellent  Sauce  for  Chops,  or  Steaks,έΑΦ 
many  ate  very  fond  of  it  with  roasted  or  Boiled  Meat,  Poul- 
tcy,  Ssc, 

ShaMot  Sauce^for  Boiled  Mutton.        (No.  295.) 

This  is  a  very  frequent  and  satisfactory  substitute  for  ^Caper 
SauceJ^ 

Mince  four  Shallots  very -fine,  and  put  them  into  a  small 
saucepan,  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  Mutton  was 
boiled  in  ;  let  them  boilup  for  five  minutes  ; έΑΦ then  put  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  Vinegar,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  Pepper,  a 
little  Salt,  and  a  bit  of  Butter  (as  big  as  a  walnut)  rolled  in 
flour:  shake  together,  till  it  boil.  See(No.402,)  Eshallot  fVine. 

Obs. έΑΦ ^We  like  a  Utile  Lemon  Peel  with  Shallot ; έΑΦ the 
Haul -Gout  of  the  latter  is  much  ameliorated  by  the  delicate 
Aroma  of  the  former. 

Some  Cooks  add  a  little  6 neLy  chopped  Parsley. 

Yming  Onion  Sauce.  (No.  296.) 

Peel  a  pint  of  Button  Onions,  and  put  them  in  water  till 
you  want  to  put  them  on  to  boil ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  with 
a  quart  of  cdd  water ;  let  them  boil  till  tender;  they  will  take 
(according  to  their  size  and  age)  from  hi/If  an  hour  to  an  hour. 
You  may  put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  (No.  307.)  See  also 
(No.  137.) 

Onion  Sauce.  (No.  297.) 

Those  who  like  the  full  flavour  of  Onions,  only  cut  off  the 
strings  and'tops  (without  peeling  off  any  of  the  skins),  put 
them  into  salt  and  water,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour ;  then  wash 
them,  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  plenty  of  water,  and  boil 
them  till  they  are  tender:  now  skin  them,  pass  them  through  a 
cullender,  and  mix  a  little  mehed  Butter  with  them. 

N,  B.  Some  mix  the  pulp  of  Apples,  or  Turnips,  with  the 
Onions, έΑΦ others  add  Mustard  to  them. 

fVhite  Onion  Sauce.  (No.  298.) 

The  following  is  a  more  mild  and  delicate*  preparation  :έΑΦ * 
Take  half  a  dozen  of  the  largest,   and  whitest   Onions,  (the 


*  If  you  wish  to  have  ihem  very  mild,  cut  them  in  quarters,  boil 
^hem  for  five  minutes  in  plenty  of  water,  and  then  drain  them,  and 
έΑλcook  them  in  fresh  water. 


n 


353  ORAVISS   AND  SAUCSfi. 

Spanish  are  the  mildest,  bat  these  can  only  be  had  from  Au- 
gust to  December,) έΑΦ peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  half,  and  lay 
ttiem  in  a  pan  of  spring  vrater  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
then  boil  them  tenaer,  which  will  sometimes  take  an  heur, 
drain  them  welt  on  a  hair  sieve,  lay  them  on  the  chopping- 
board  and  chop  and  bruise  them,  pnt  th┬τm  into  a  efean  sauce- 
pan, with  some  Butter  and  Flour,  half  a  teaspoooful  of  salt, 
and  some  Cream,  or  good  milk ;  stir  it  till  it  boils ;  then  tab 
the  whole  through  a  tammy  or  sieve,  adding  cream  or  milk,  to 
make  it  the  consistence  you  wish. 

068. έΑΦ This  is  the  usual  sauce  for  boiled  Rabbits, έΑΦ M uttoo, 
-έΑΦor  Tripe* έΑΦ There  must  be  plenty  of  it ;  the  usual  expres- 
sion signifies  as  much,  for  we  say,  maoiher  them  with  it. 

JBroton  Onion  Sauce^  or  Onion  Gravy,        (No.  299.) 

Peel  and  slice  the  Onions  (some  put  in  an  equal  quantity  of 
Cucumber  or  Celery)  into  a  quart  stewpan,  with  an  otince  of 
Butter  ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  turn  the  Onion  about  till  it  is 
very  lightly  browned ;  now  gradually  stir  in  half  an  ounce. of 
Flour  ;  add  a' little  broth,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  boil  op 
for  a  few  minutes,add  a  tablespoonful  of  Claret,  or  Port  wine, 
and  same  of  Mushroom  Catsup, έΑΦ (you  may  sharpen  it  Wwh  a 
little  Lemon  Juice  or  Vinegar) έΑΦ and  rub  it  through  a  tammy, 
or  fine  sieve. 

Curry  Powder  (No.  348,)  will  convert  this  into  ezcelleBt 
Curry  Sauce. 

N.  B.  If  this  Sauce  is  for  Steaks,  shred  an  ounce  of 
Onions,  fry  them  a  nice  brown,  and  put  them  to  the  sauce  you 
have  rubbed  through  a  tammy  ; έΑΦ or  some  very  amaU  round 
young  silver  Button  Onions,  see  (No.  ^96,)  peeled  and  boiled 
tender,  and  put  in  whole  when  your  Sauce  is  done,  will  be  an 
acceptable  addilion. 

Obs. έΑΦ If  you  have  no  Broth,  put  in  half  a'  pint  of  water, 
and  see  (No.25^)  ; έΑΦ just  before  you  give  it  the  last  boiiup,add 
to  it  another  (ablespoouful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  the  same 
quantity  of  Port  Wine  or  good  Ale. 

The  flavour  of  this  Sauce  may  be  varied  by  adding  Tarra- 
gon or  Burnet  Vioger,  (Nos.  396  and  399.) 

Sage  and  OnloUy  or  Goose-string  Sauce,       (No.  300.) 
Chop  very  fine  an  ounce  of  Onion  and  half  an   ounce  of 
green  Sage  leaves,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  four  spoons- 
ful of  water,  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  a  tea- 


aRAVlES    AND   SAUCES.  263 

spoooful  of  pepper  aod  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs ;  mix  well  together ; έΑΦ then  pour  to  it  a  quarter  of  a 
piDt  of  (Broth,  or  Gravy,  or)  MeJted  Butter,  stir  well  together, 
aod  simmer  it  a  few  minutes  longer. 

O&s.έΑΦ This  is  a  very  relishing  Sauce  for  Roast  Pork,  Geese, 
or  Ducks  :  or  Green  Pease  on  Maigre  Days, 

See  also  Borme  Bouche  for  the  above,  (No.  341.) 

Green  Mint  Sauce,  (No.  303.) 

Wash  half  a  handful  of  nice  young  fresh-gat hered  Green 
Mintj  (to  this  some  add  one-third  the  quantity  of  Parsley,) 
pick  the  leaves  from.the  stalks,  mince  them  very  fine,  and  put 
them  into  a  sauceboat,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  moist  Sugar,  and 
four  tablespoonsful  of  Vinegar. 

0&8. έΑΦ This  is  the  usual  accompaniment  to  Hot  Lamb  ; έΑΦ 
and  an  equally  agreeable  relish  with  Cold  Lamb. 

If  Green  Mint  cannot  be  procured,  this  sauce  may  be  made 
witk  Mint  Vinegar^  (No.  398.) 

A]^le  Sauce,  (No.  304.) 

Pare  and  core  three  good  sized  baking  Apples,  put  them  into 
a  well-tinned  pint  saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  cold 
water  ;  cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  set  it  on  a  trivet  over  a 
slow  fire  a  couple  of  hours  before  dinner, έΑΦ some  Apples  will 
take  a  long  time  stewing, έΑΦ others  will  be  ready  in  a  quarter  of 
an  hour: έΑΦ when  the  Apples  are  done  enough,  pour  off  the 
water,  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  to  get  dry  ;  then  beat  them 
up  with  a  Fork,  with  a  bit  of  Butter  about  as  big  as  a  Nutmeg, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  Sugar. 

N.  B.  Some  add  Lemon  Peel,  grated,  or  minced  fine, έΑΦ or 
boil  a  bit  with  the  Apples. 

Mushroom  Sauce,  (No.  305.) 

Pick  and  peel  half  a  pint  of  Mushrooms  (the  smaller  tie 

better,)  wash  them  very  clean,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan 

with  half  a  pint  of  Veal  Gravy  or   Milk,   a  little  Pepper  and 

Salt,  and  an  ounce  of  Butter  rubbed   with  a  tablespoon ful  of 

*"'  ur,  stir  them  together,  and  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  to 

r  slowly  tiU  tender; έΑΦ skim  and  strain  it. 

35s. έΑΦ It  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  this,  and  the  two 

swing  Sauces,  to  add  to  them   the  juice  of  half  a  dozen 

ishrooms,  prepared  the  day  before,  by  sprinkling  them  with 

22 


254  ORAVIfiS   AND   SAUCES. 

salt,  the  same  as  when  you  make  Catsup ;  or  add  a  large 
spoonful  of  good  Double  Mushroom  Catsup,  (No.  439,) 
S<*e  Quintessence  of  Mushrooms,  (No.  440.) 
N.  B.  Much  as  ne  love  the  flavour  of  Mushrooms, έΑΦ we 
must  enter  our  protest  against  their  being  eatea  ia  substance, έΑΦ 
when  the  morbid  eflects  they  produce  too  often  prove  tbem 
worthy  of  the  appellations  Seneca  gave  them,  "  Voluptuous 
Potson,*'  *''  lethal  luxury,"  &c, ;  and  we  caution  those  who 
cannot  refrain  from  indulging  their  palate  with  the  seducing 
reliiib  of  this  deceitful  Fungus,  to  masticate  it  diligently. 

We  do  not  believe  that  Mushrooms  are  nutritive, έΑΦ every 
one  know┬τ  they  are  often  dangerously  indigestible, έΑΦ therefore 
the  Rational  Epicure  will  be  content  with  extracting  the  flavour 
from  them έΑΦ which  it*  obtained  in  the  utmost  perfection  by  the 
process  directed  in  (No.  4S9.) 

Mushroom  Sauce^  Brown,         (No.  306.) 

Put  the  Mushrooms  into  half  a  pfnt  of  Beef  Gravy  (No. 
1 86,)  or  (No.  3^9) ;  thicken  with  Flour  and  Butter  ;  and 
proceed  as  above. 

Mttshroom  Sauce,  Ejttempore,         (No.  307.) 

Proceed  as  directed  in  (No.  256,)  to  melt  Butter, έΑΦ only  in- 
stead of  two  tablespoonsful  of  Milk,  put  in  two  of  Mushroom 
Catsup  (No.  439  or  40  ;) έΑΦ or  add  it  to  thickened  Broth,  Gra- 
vy, or  Mock  Turtle  Soup,  &c.-^or  put  in  tNo.  296.) 

Obs, έΑΦ This  is  a  welcome  Relish  with  Fish έΑΦ Poultry έΑΦ or 
Chops  and  Steaks,  &c,  A  couple  of  Quarts  of  good  Catsup 
(No.  439,)  will  make  more  good  Sauce  than  ten  times  its  cost 
of  Meat,  &c. 

Walnut  Catsup  will  give  you  another  variety  ;  and  Bai.l*s 
C  A  VICE,  which  is  excellent^  and  sold  at  No.  81 ,  New  Bond- 
Street. 

Poor  MaiCs  Sauce^  (No.  310.) 

Pick  a  handful  of  Parsley  leaves  from  the  stalks,  minoe  them 
very  fine,  strew  over  a  little  salt ;  shred  fine  half  a  dozen  young 
grt*en  Onions,  add  these  to  the  Parsley,  and  put  tbem  into  a 
sauceboat,  with  three  tablespoonsful  of  Oil,  and  6ve  of  Vine- 
gar ;  add  some  ground  Black  Pepper  and  Salt ;  stir  together 
and  send  it  up. 

Pickled  French  Beans  or  Gherkins,  cut  fine,  may  be  added 
>^or  a  iktie  grated  Horseradish. 


256  GRAVIES   AND  SAUCES. 

Fried  Parsley.  (No.  3 J  7.) 

Let  it  be  nicely  picked  aod  washed,  then  put  into  a  clotb, 
anil  swung  backwards  aod  forwards  till  it  is  perfectly  dry  ; έΑΦ 
put  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  fry  it  quick,  and  have  a  slice  ready 
to  take  it  out  the  moment  it  is  crisp,  (in  another  moment  it  will 
be  spoilt ;)  put  it  oo  a  sieve,  or  coarse  cloth,  before  the  fire  to 
drain. 

Crisp  Parsley.  (No.  318.) 

Pick  and  wash  young  Parsley,  shake  it  in  a  dry  clofh  {a 
drain  the  water  from  it ;  spread  it  on  a  sheet  of  clean  paper,  in 
a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  and  turn  it  frequently  until  it  is 
quite  crisp. έΑΦ This  is  a  much  more  easy  way  of  preparing  it 
than  Frying  it, έΑΦ which  is  not  seldom  ill  done. 

06s. έΑΦ A  very  pretty  garnish  for  Lamb  Chops,  Fish,  &c. 

Fned  Bread  Sippets.  (No.  319.) 

Cut  a  slice  of  Bread  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  divide 
it  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  two  inches  square ; έΑΦ shape 
these  into  Triangles  or  Crosses: έΑΦ put  some  very  clean  Fat  inta 
an  iron  Fryingpao  ;  when  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  sippets,  aod  fry 
them  a  delicate  light  hrovm  ;  take  them  up  with  a  Fish-slice,, 
and  drain  them  well  from  Fat,  turning  them  occasionally  ;^- 
this  will  take  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Keep  the  pan  at  such  a 
distance  from  the  fire,  that  the  fat  may  be  hot  enough  to  brown 
without  burning ; έΑΦ this  is  a  requisite  precaution  in  frying  deli- 
cate thin  things. 

06s. έΑΦ These  are  a  pretty  Garnish^  and  very  welcome  bo- 
companimentand  improvement  to  the  finest  made  Dishes:έΑΦ 
they  may  also  be  sent  up  with  Pease  and  other  Soups  ; έΑΦ hot 
when  intended  for  Soups,  the  Bread  must  be  cut  into  bits, 
about  half  an  inch  square. 

N.  B.  If  these  are  not  done  vein/  delicately  clean  and  dry^ 
they  are  uneatable. 

Fried  Bread  Crumbs.         (No.  320.) 

Rub  Bread  (which  has  been  baked  two  days)  through  a  wire 
sieve,  or  Cullender  ; έΑΦ or  you  may  rub  them  in  a  cloth  till  they 
are  as  fine  as  if  they  had  been  grated  and  sifted  ; έΑΦ put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of  Butter,  place  it  over 
a  moderate  6re,  and  stir  them  about  with  a  wooden  spoon  till 
they  are  the  colour  of  a  Guinea  ;  spread  them  on  a  sieve,  and 
let  them  stand  ten  minutes  to  drain,  turning  them  frequently. 


GRAVIES   AND   SAUCES.  237 

Obs, έΑΦ Fried  Crumbs  are  sent  up  with  roasted  Sweetbreads, 

έΑΦor  Larks,έΑΦ Pheasants, Partridges, έΑΦ Woodcocks, έΑΦ and 

Grouse, έΑΦ or  Moor  Game,  especially  if  they  have  been  kepi  lo7ig 
enough. 

Bread  Sauce.  (No.  321.) 

Put  a  small  teacupful  of  Bread-Crumbs  into  a  ste\vpan,pour 
on  it  as  much  milk  as  it  will  soak  up,  and  a  little  more  ;  or,  ia* 
stead  of  the  milk,  take  the  Giblets,  bead,  neck,  and  legs,  &c. 
of  the  Poultry,  &c.  and  stew  tbero,  and  moisten  the  bread  with 
this  liquor ;  put  it  on  the  fire,  with  a  middling  sized  Onion, 
and  a  dozen  berries  of  Pepper  or  Allspice,  or  a  littlu  Mace; 
let  it  boil,  then  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  is  quite  stiff', 
and  then  put  to  it  about  two  tablespoonsful  of  Cream  or  melted 
Butter,  or  a  Utile  good  Broth  ^  take  out  the  Onion  and  Pepper, 
and  it  is  res^dy. 

06s. έΑΦ This  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  Game  and 
Poultry,  &c.  and  a  good  vehicle  for  receiving  various  flavours 
from  THE  Magazine  op  Taste  (No.  463.) 

Rice  Sauce.  (No.  321┬╗.) 

Steep  a  quarter  pound  of  Rice  in  a  piot  of  milk,  with  Onion, 
Pepper,  &c.  as  in  the  last  receipt;  when  the  Rice  is  quite  ten- 
der (take  out  the  spice,)  rub  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean 
stewpan  ;  if  too  thick,  put  a  little  milk  or  cream  to  il. 

Obs. έΑΦ This  is  a  very  delicate  White  sauce  ; έΑΦ and  at  elegant 

tables,  is  frequently  served  instead  of  Bread  Sauce. 

* 

Browning  (No.  3^2.) 

Is  a  convenient  article  to  colour  those  Soups  or  Sauces^. 
of  which  it  is  supposed  their  deep  brown  complexion  denotes 
the  strength  and  savouriness  of  the  composition. 

Burnt  Sugar  is  also  a  favourite  ingredient  with  the  Brewers, 
who  use  it  under  the  name  of  '*  Essentia  Bina"  to  colour  their 
Beer  ;  it  is  also  employed  by  the  Brandy  makers,  in  considera* 
ble  quantity,  to  colour  Brandy  ;  to  which,  besides  enriching 
its  complexion,  it  gives  that  sweetish  taste,  and  fulness  in  the 
mouth,  which  custom  has  taught  Brandy  drinkers  to  admire, 
and  prefer  to  the  finest  Cogniac  in  its  genuine  state. 

When  employed  for  Culinary  Purposes,  this  is  sometimes 
made  with  strong  Gravy,  or  Walnut  Catsup.  Those  who  lika 
a  godit  of  Acid  may  add  a  little  Walnut  Pickle. 


258  GRAVIES    AND   SAUCES. 

It  will  hardly  ba  told  from  whaC  is  commoDly  called  ^*  genU" 
ine  Japanese  Soy*,"  for  which  it  is  a  very  good  8ubsti(ate. 
Burot  Treacle,  or  Sugar,  the  Peels  of  Walnuts,  Cayeane  pep- 
per, or  Capsicums,  or  ChiMies,  Vinegar,  Garlick,  and  pickled 
Herrings,  (especially  the  Dutch) έΑΦ Sardiaias,  or  Sprats,  appear 
to  be  the  bases  of  almost  ail  the  Sauces  which  now,  to  use  the 
maker^s  phrase,  stand  unrivalled. 

Although  indefatigable  research  and  experiment  has  put  us 
in  possession  of  these  compositions, έΑΦ it  would  not  be  quite 
fair  to  enrich  the  Cook,  at  the  expense  of  the  Oilman,  &c.έΑΦ 
we  hope  we  have  said  enough  on  these  subjects,  to  satisfy  "the 
Rational  Epicure.'^ 

Put  half  a  pound  of  pounded  Lump  Sugar,  and  a  table- 
sf^oonful  of  water  into  a  clean  iron  saucepan,  set  it  over  a  slow 
fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  becomes  a 
bright  brown  colour,  and  begins  to  smoke ;  then  add  to  it  an 
ounce  of  salt,  and  dilute  it  by  degrees  with  water,  till  it  is  the 
thickness  of  Soy  ;  let  it  boil,  take  off  the  scum,  and  strain  the 
liquor  into  bottles,  which  must  be  well  stopped :  if  you  have 
not  any  of  this  by  you,  and  you  wish  to  darken  the  colour  of 
ybur  sauces,  pound  a  teaspoonful  of  lump  sugar,  and  put  into 
an  iron  spoon,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it ;  bold  it 
over  a  quick  fire  til!  it  becomes  of  a  very  dark  brown  colour; 
mix' it  with  the  soup.  Sec,  while  it  is  hot. 

Obs. έΑΦ Most  of  the  preparations  uoder  this  title  are  a  roedlej  of 
burnt  Butter, έΑΦ Spices, έΑΦ Gatsup, έΑΦ Wine,  &c.  We  recommend  the  Ra- 
tional Epicure  to  be  content  with  the  naiurcU  colour  of  Soups  and  Sctu- 
ceSj  which,  to  a  well  educated  Palate,  are  much  more  agreeable,  with- 
out any  of  these  empyreumatic  additions  ; έΑΦ however  they  may  please 
the  Eye,  they  plague  the  Stomach  most  grievously,  so  "  open  your 
Mouth  and  ┬╗hut  your  Eyes.** 

For  the  sake  of  producing  a  pretty  colour,  "  Cheese'* έΑΦ Cayenne 
(No.  404,) έΑΦ "  Essence  of  Anchovy"  (No.  433,)  &c.  are  frequently 
adulterated  with  a  colouring  matter  containing  Red  Lead !  ! έΑΦ See 
Ac  CUM  on  the  adulteration  of  Food. 

A  scientific  "  homme  de  bouche  de  France**  observes έΑΦ "  The  gene* 
rality  of  Cooks  calcine  Bones,  till  they  are  as  black  as  a  Coal,  and 
throw  them  hissing  hot  into  the  stewpan,  to  give  a  brown  colour  to 
their  Broths.  These  ingredients,  under  the  appearance  of  a  nourish- 
ing Gravy,  envelop  our  food  with  stimulating  acid  and  corrosive 
Poison. 

Roux  or  Thickening  (No.  257,)  if  not  made  very  carefully,  produ- 
ces exactly  the  same  effect ;  and  the  juices  of  Beef,  or  Veal,  burnt  over 


*  **  By  the  bett  accoants  I  can  find,  5oy  it  a  preparation  from  the  seeds  of  a  spe- 
cies of  the  Dolichos^  prepared  by  a  frrnYcntation  of  the  ftrina  of  this  se^  in  a  stroDK 
lixivium  of  c┬τmiuunsalu"έΑΦrw wnVJlfa^  ifccf. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES.  259 


a  hot  fire,  to  give  a  rich  colour  to  Soup  or  Sauces,  grieroQiIy 
'  the  Stomach,  and  create  the  most  distressing^  Indigestions. 
I       The  judicious  Cook  will  refuse  the  help  of  these  incendiary  arti- 
'  cles  ;  which  ignorance,  or  quackery,   only  employ, έΑΦ not  only  at  the 
;  expense  of  the  credit  of  the  cook,  but  the  health  of  her  employers." 
N.  B,  The  BEST  BROWNING  is  good  Home-made  Glaze  (No. 

252,) έΑΦ Mushroom   Catsup  (No.  439,) έΑΦ or  Claret  or  Port 

Wine.    See  also  (No.  257  ;)έΑΦ or  cut  meat  into  slices,   and 

broil  them  browo,  and  then  stew  them. 

Gj^avyfor  Roast  Meat,         (No.  326.) 

Most  joints  will  afford  sufficient  trimmings,  &c,  to  make  half 
a  pint  of  plaio  Gravy,  which  you  may  colour  with  a  few  drops 
of  (No.  3M ;)έΑΦ -for  those  that  do  not,  about  half  ao  hour  be- 
fore  you  think  the  meat  will  be  done,  mix  a  saltspoonful  of 
Salt,  with  a  full  quarter  pint  of  boiling  Water ;  drop  this  by 
degrees  on  the  brown  parts  of  the  joint ;  set  a  dish  under  to 
catch  it,  (tlie  meat  will  soon  brown  again)  ;  set  it  by, έΑΦ as  it 
cools,  the  fat  will  settle  on  the  surface ;  when  the  meat  is  ready, 
remove  this,  and  warm  up  the  gravy,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish. 

The  Common  Method  is,  when  the  meat  is  in  the  dish  yon 
intend  to  send  it  up  in,  to  mix  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Salt  in  a 
quarter  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  to  drop  some  of  this  over 
the  corners  and  underside  of  the  meat,  and  to  pour  the  rest 
through  the  hole  the  spit  came  out  of, έΑΦ and  some  pierce  the 
inferior  parts  of  the  joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

The  following  receipt  was  given  us  bf  a  very  good  Cook  : 
You  may  make  good  Browning  for  Roast  Meat  and  Poultry, 
by  saving  the  Brpvm  Bits  of  Roast  Meat  or  Broiled  ;  cut 
them  into  small  bits,  put  them  into  a  basin,  cover  them  with 
boiling  water,  and  put  them  away  till  next  day  ;  then  put  it 
into  a  saucepan,  let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  and  put  it  away  for  use.  When 
yon  want  Gravy  for  Roast  Meat,  put  two  tablespoonful  into 
ball  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt; έΑΦ if  for  Roasted 
Veal,  put  three  tablespoousful  into  half  a  pint  of  thin  melted 
Butter. 

N.  B.  The  Gravy  which  comes  down  in  the  dish,  the  Cook 

(if  she  is   a  good  housewife)  will  preserve  to  enrich  Hashes 

OR  LITTLE  Made  Dishes,  &c. 

Obs. έΑΦ Some  Culinary  professors,  who  think  nothing  can  be  exceU 
lent,  that  is  not  extravagant^ έΑΦ call  this  '<  Scots  Gravv  ;"  not,  I  be- 
lieTe,  intending  it,  as  it  certainly  is,  a  compliment  to  the  laudable,  and 
rational  frugality,  of  that  intelligent  and  sober-minded  People. 


260  GRAVIES   AKTD  SAUCES. 

N.  B.  This  grtivy  shoalcl  be  brought]  to  table  ia  a  Scace-boat ; 
preserve  the  intrinsic  Gravy  which  flows  from  the  meat,  in  the  Arg-jil. 

Gravy  for  Boiled  Meat  (No.  347.) 

May  be  made  with  Parings  and  Trimmings  ;  or  pour  from 
a  quarter  to  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  Meat  was 
boiled,  into  the  dish  with  it,  and  pierce  the  inferior  part  of  the 
joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

Wow  fVow  Sauce  for  Stewed  or  BouiUi  Beef.  (No  328.) 
Chop  some  Parsley  leaves  very  finely,  quarter  two  or  three 
pickled  Cucumbers,  or  Walnuts^  and  divide  them  I'nlo  small 
squares,  a┬╗d  set  them  by  ready  ; έΑΦ put  into  a  saucepan  a  bit 
of  Butter  as  big  as  an  egg ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  to  it  a 
tablespoon ful  of  fine  Flour,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  ibe  Broth 
in  which  the  Beef  was  boiled;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Viae- 
gar,  the  like  quanlity  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  Port  Wine,  or 
both,  and  a  leaspoonful  of  made  Mustard  ;  let  it  simmer  togeth- 
er till  it  as  thick  as  you  wish  it,  put  in  the  Parsley  and  Pickles 
to  get  warm,  and  pour  it  over  the  Beef, έΑΦ or  rather  send  it  up 
in  a  Saucetureen. 

06s. έΑΦ If  you  think  (he  above  not  sufficiently  piquarUe,  add 
to  it  some  Capers,  or  a  minced  Shallot,  or  one  or  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  Shallot  Wine  (No.  402,) έΑΦ or  Essence  of  Ancho- 
vy, or  Basil  (No.  397,)  Elder,  or  Tarragoa  (No.  396,)  or 
Horseradish  (No.  399*,)  or  Burnet  Vinegar ;  or  strew  over 
(he  meat  Carrots  or^Turnips  cut  into  dice, έΑΦ minced  Capers,. 
Walnuts.  Red  Cabbage,pickled  Cucumbers,or  French  Beans,&c. 
(No.  329) έΑΦ Beef  Gravy  Sauce, έΑΦ or  Broum,  Sauce  for  Ra- 
goiks.  Game,  Poultry,  Fish,  Sfc, 

If  you  want  Gravy  immediately  see  (No.  307,)  or  (No.  252,). 
if  you  have  time  enough. 

Furnish  a  thick  and  well-tinned  Stewpan  with  alliin  slice  of 
fat  Ham  or  Bacon,  or  an  ounce  of  Buiter,.and  a  middling  sised 
Onion  ;  on  this,  lay  a  pound  of  nice  juicy  Gravy  Beef,  (as  the 
object  in  making  Gravy  is  to  extract  the  nutritious  succulence 
of  the  Meat,  it  must  be  beaten  (o  comminute  the  containing 
vessels,  and  scored  to  augment  the  surface  to  the  action  of  the 
water,)  cover  the  Stewpan,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  ;  when  the 
meat  begins  to  brown,  turn  it  about,  and  let  it  get  slightly 
browned,  (but  take  care  it  is  not  at  all  burnt ;)  then  pour  in  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire;  whea 
it  boils,  carefully  catch  the  scum, έΑΦ and  thea  put  in  a  crust  of 


GRAVl┬μS    AND   SAX}C┬μS┬τ  261 

bread  toasted  brown,  (don't  burn  it) έΑΦ a  sprig  of  winter  Savo- 
ry, or  Lemou  Thyme  and  Parsley έΑΦ a  roll  of  tbin  cut  Lemoa- 
Peel,  a  dozen  berries  of  Allspice,  and  a  dozen  of  Black  Pep- 
per ;  cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  let  it  slew  very  gently  for 
about  two  hours,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin, 
^ow,  if  you  wiab  to  thicken  it,  set  a  clean  stewpan  over  a 
slow  tire,  with  about  an  ounce  of  Butter  in  it;  when  it  is 
melted,  dredge  to  it  (by  degrees)  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it 
up,  stirrmg  them  well  together  ;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  pour 
in  a  little  of  the  Gravy, έΑΦ stir  it  well  together,  and  add  the  re- 
mainder by  degrees  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longer,  and  skim  off  the  fat,  &c. 
as  it  rises;  when  it  is  about  as  thick  as  cream,  squeeze  it 
through  a  tammis,  or  fine  sieve, έΑΦ and  you  will  have  a  fine  rich 
Brown  Sauce,  at  a  very  moderate  Expense,  and  without  much 
trouble. 

06┬╗. έΑΦ If  you  wish  io  make  it  still  more  Relishing^ έΑΦ if  it  is 
for  Poultry,  you  may  pound  the  Liver  with  a  bit  of  Butter,  rub 
it  through  a  sieve,  and  stir  it  into  the  Sauce  when  you  put  in 
the  thickening.  For  a  Ragout,  or  Game,  add  at  the  same 
time  a  tablespoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  (No.  343)+  or 
(No.  429,)  or  a  few  drops  of  (No.  422,)  the  juice  of  half  a 
Lemon,  and  a  roll  of  the  rind  pared  thin,  a  tablespoonful  of 
Port,  or  other  wine,  (Claret  is  best,)  and  a  few  grains  of  Cay- 
enne Pepper  ; έΑΦ or  use  double  the  quantity  of  Meat, έΑΦ or  add  a 
bit  of  Glaze,  or  Portable  Soup  (No.  252,)  to  it. 

You  may  vary  the  flavour  by  sometimes  adding  a  little  Ba- 
sil or  Burnet  Wine  (No.  397,)  or  Tarragon  Vinegar  (Ne. 
396,)  or  a  wine-glass  of  Quintessence  of  Mushrooms  (No.  450.) 

See  the  Magazine  of  Taste,  (No,  463.) 

N.  B.  This  ig  an  excellent  Gravy  ;  and  at  a  large  Dinner,  a  Pint  of 
it  should  be  placed  at  each  end  of  the  TableέΑΦ it  is  equal  to  the  most 
costly  Consomme  of  the  Parisian  Kitchen. 

Those  families  who  are  fiequently  in  want  of  Gravy,  Sauces,  &c. 
(without  Plenty  of  which,  no  Cook  can  support  the  credit  of  her 
Kitchen,)  should  keep  a  stock  of  Portable  Soup  or  Glaze,  see  (No.. 
25^2  :)  this  will  make  Gravy  immediately. 

t  One  of  **  let  Bonnei  hommes  de  Bouche  de  France''^  orders  the  following  addition. 
for  Oame  Gravy  :  έΑΦ **  For  a  pint,  par-roa┬╗t  a  Partridge  or  a  Pigeon  ;  cut  off  tho 
meat  of  it,  pound  it  in  a  moPtar,  and  pot  it  into  the  stewpan  when  you  thicken  the 
ance."έΑΦ W;  rfe  ntt  recommend  either  Soup  or  Saueeto  be  MicAenet/.έΑΦ because  it  re- 
quires (to  give  it  the  same  quickness  on  the  Pa! ate  it  had  before  it  was  thickened) 
oooble  the  quantity  of  Piquante  naaterials,έΑΦ which  are  thus  smuggled  down  the  Red 
Lane,  without  affording  any  amusement  to  the  Moatbi  and  at  the  risk  of  highly 
offending  the  Stomach 


262  CRAVIES   ANP  SAUCES. 

Game   Gravy.  (No.  337.) 

See  06s.  to  (329.) 

Orange  Gravy  Sauce^  for  Wild  DuckSy  Widgeon  and 

Teal,  (S'c.έΑΦ (No.  338.) 

Set  on  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of  Veal  Gravy  (No.  192,) 
add  to  it  naif  a  dozen  leaves  of  Basil,  a  soiall  Onion,  and  a  roll 
of  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel,  and  let  it  boil  up  tor  a  few  minutes, 
and  strain  it  off.  Put  to  the  clear  gravy  the  juice  ot  a  Seville 
Orange,  or  Lemon,  half  a  teaspoon ful  of  Salt,  the  same  ofPep^ 
per,  and  a  glass  of  Red  Wine ;  send  it  up  hot.  Esbaiiot  and 
Cayenne  may  be  added. 

Obs.έΑΦ This  is  an  excellent  Sauce  for  all  kinds  of  Wild  water-fowl. 

The  common  way  of  gashing  the  breast,  and  squeezing  in  an 
Orange,  cools,  and  hardens  the  flesh,  and  compels  every  one  to  ^it 
Duck  that  way :  some  people  like  wild  fowl  very  little  done,  and 
without  any  Sauce. 

Gravies  should  always  be  sent  up  in  a  boat ;  they  keep  hot  longer ', 
and  it  leaves  it  to  the  choice  of  the  Company  to  partake  it  or  not. 

Bonne  Bouche,  forGoose,  Duck,  or  Roast  Porii.(  No.  341.) 

'  Mix  a  teaspoooful  of  made  Mustard,  a  saltspoonful  of  Satt, 
and  a  (evr  grains  of  Cayenne,  in  a  large  wineglassfui  of  Claret, 
or  Port  v?ine* ;  pour  it  into  the  Goose  by  a  slit  in  the  aproo, 
just  before  serving  up+  ;  or  as  all  ike  Company  may  not  like  it, 
stir  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  thick  melted  Butter ^  or  thick' 
ened  Gravy,  and  send  it  up  in  a  Boat,  See  also  Sage  aod 
Onion  Sauce,  (No.  300.) 

Or, 

A  Favourite  RELisH,/or  Roast  Pork  or  Geese,  Sfc.  fs, έΑΦ 
two  ounces  of  leaves  of  Green  Sage,  an  ounce  of  fresh  Lemoo 
Peel,  paredthin,samcof  Salt,  minced  Shallot,  and  half  a  drachm 
of  Cayenne  Pepper,  ditto  of  Citric  Acid,  steeped  far  a  fortnight 
in  a  pint  of  Claret;  shake  it  up  well  every  day  ;  let  it  stand  a 
day  10  settle,  and  decant  the  clear  liquor, έΑΦ bottle  it  and  cork 
close, έΑΦ a  tablespoouful,  or  more,  in  a  quarter  pint  of  Gravy, 
or  melted  Buttvr. 


*  To  this  some  add  a  tablcspoonfiil  of  Muihroom  Catsup  (No.  439.)  and  instead  of 
the  saltspoonful  of  Salt ,  a  teaspoonfti  1  of  Essence  of  Anchoyjr  (No.  433.)  If  the  above 
articliw  art*  rubbed  together  in  a  mortar,  and  put  into  a  close  stopped  bottle  they  will 
keep  for  some  time. 

t  Thus  far  the  above  is  from  Dr.  Hunter**  **Culina^  who  %Kft  it  is  a  secret  worth 
knowing ;έΑΦ we  agree  with  biin,  and  so  tt-ll  it  here  :  with  a  little  addition,  vhieb  wo 
tbiuk  renders  it  a  still  more  gratifying  communicationi 


┬τRAVI┬μS   AND  SAUCES.  303 

Robert  Scmcefor  Roast  Povk  or  Geese,  Sfc.  (No.  34^) 
Pill  au  ouQce  oi  Butter  ioto  a  Pint  Stewpao  ;  when  it  is 
melted,  add  to  it  half  aa  ounce  of  Onion  mioced  very  fine  * 
turn  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  it  takes  a  light  brown  colour, 
then  stir  in  a  tahtes(Oonhil  of  Flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  Mush- 
room Catsup,  (with,  or  without  the  like  quantity  of  Port  wine,) 
half  a  pint  ol*  Broth,  or  water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  Pepper,  the  same  o(  Salt ;  give  them  a  hoii,  then  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Mustard,  same  of  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  Lem- 
on, or  one  or  two  teaspoonslul  of  Vinegar,  or  Basil  (No.  397,) 
or  Tarragon,  (39f))  ;  or  Burnet  Vinegar,  (390.) 

Obs. έΑΦ The  French  call  thif  "  Sauee  IRoheri"  (from  the  name  of  the 
cook  who  inycnted  it,  and  are  verfr  food  of  it  with  manjr  thingi,)  which 
Mary  mith^  id  the  Compltte  Uousekeeper,tran%\&te8 Roe-Boat  Sauee. 
See  06*.  to  (No.  629.) 

Turtie  Sauce.  (No.  343.) 

Put  into  your  stewpan  a  pint  of  Beef  Qravy  thickened  (No. 
329  ;)  add  to  this  some  of  (he  following  Essence  of  Turtle  (No. 
343*,)  or  a  wineglass  of  Madeira,  the  juice  and  peel  of  half  a 
liemon,  a  few  leaves  of  Basilf ,  an  Eshallot  quartered,  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne  pepper,  or  Curry  powder,  and  a  little  Es- 
sence ot  Anchovy  ;  let  thenf  simmer  togetlier  for  five  minutes, 
strain  through  a  tammis  ; έΑΦ you  may  introduce  a  dozen  Turtle 
Forcemeat  Balls  ;  see  Receipt  (No.  380,  &c.) 

06s. έΑΦ Thin  is  the  Sauce  for  boiled  or  hashed  Calf's liead, έΑΦ 
Stewed  Veal, έΑΦ or  any  dish  you  dress  Turtle  fashion. 

The  far*fetcht  and  dear-bought  Turtle  owes  its  high  rank  oa 
the  list  of  savoury  Bonnes  Bouches  to  4he  relishing  and  piquante 
sauce  that  is  made  for  it ; έΑΦ without,  it  would  be  as  insipid  as 
any  other  Fish  is  without  Sauce.     See  X)hs.  to  (No.  493.) 

Essence  of  Turtle.  (No.  343* .) 

Essence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433,)  one  wineglassful. 
Shallot  Wine  (No.  40^,)  one  and  a  half  ditto. 
Basil  (No.  397,)  four  ditto. 
Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  two  ditto. 
Concrete  Lemon    Acid,  one  drachm,  or  some  Artificial 
Lemon  Juice  (No.  407*) 

Lemon  Peel,  very  thinly  pared,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce. 
Curry  Powder  (No.  465,)  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 
Sleep  for  a  week  to  get  \he  flavour  of  the  Lemon  Peel.    &.c. 
Obs. έΑΦ This  is  very  convenient^  to  extemporaneously  flavour  Soup, 
,auce,  or  Potted  Meats,  Ragouts,  Savoury  Patties,  Pies^  he. 
έΨιέΨιέΨιέΨι'έΨι"έΨι  - 

t  See  Basil  Wine  (No.  397.) 


^64  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCSS. 

fVine  Sauce,  for  Venison  or  l^re^    (No.  344. j 
A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Claret  or  Port  wioe,  the  same  qaaaci- 
ty  of  plain  uoflavoured  Mutton  Gravy  (No.  347,)  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Currant  Jelly ;  let  it  just  boil  up  and  send  it  to  ta- 
ble in  a  sauce-boat. 

Sharp  Sauce  for  Venison,       (No.  345.) 

Put  into  a  ┬τlver,  or  a  vary  clean  and  well  tinned  saucepan, 
balf  a  pint  of  the  best  white-wine  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  pounded  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer gently  ;  skim  it  carefully,  pour  it  through  aJammis  or  Gae 
sieve,  and  send  it  up  in  a  basin. 

Ofri.έΑΦ Some  people  like  this  better  than  tht  Sweet  WintSaueei. 
Sweet  Sauce  for  Venison^  or  Hare.  (No.  346.^ 

Put  some  Currant  Jelly  into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted 
pour  it  into  a  sauce-boat. 

N.  B.  Many  send  it  to  table  without  melting.  To  mahe 
Currant  Jelly  see  (No.  479*.) 

This  is  a  more  salubrious  relish  than  either  Spice  or  Salt,  and  wheB 
the  Palate  protests  against  animal  food  unless  its  flavour  be  maskedy 
έΑΦ Currant  Jelly  is  a  g^ood  accompaniment  to  Roasted  or  Hashed  Meats. 

Mutton  G-ravy,  for  Venison  or  Hare,  (No.  347.) 

The  best  gravy  for  Venison,  is  tbat  made  with  the  trimmings 
of  the  Joiot: έΑΦ if  this  is  all  used,  and  you  have  no  undressoi 
Venison,  cut  a  scrag  of  mutton  in  pieces,  broil  it  a  little  browo, 
then  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  ;  now  un- 
cover the  stewpan,  and  let  it  reduce  to  three  quarters  of  a  piot, 
pour  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  take  the  fat  off,  and  send  it  up  in  a 
boat, έΑΦ It  is  only  to  be  seasoned  with  a  little  salt,  that  it  may 
not  overpower  the  natural  flavour  of  the  meat.     You  may  co- 
lour it  with  a  very  little  of  (No.  322.) 

N.  B.  Some  prefer  the  unseasoned  Beef  Gravy,  (No.  186,) 
which  you  may  make  in  five  minutes  with  (No.  252.) 

The  Queen's  Gravy  ofMuliorif  as  made  by  her   Majesty's  Exut/er  έΑλ 
de  Cvisinef  Monsieur  La  Montagne.     "  Roast  a  juicy  leg-  of  Mutton 
three  quarters,  then  gash  it  in  several  places,  and  press  out  the  Juice 
by  a  screw  press. 

Cumj  Sauce,  (No.  348.) 

Is  made  by  stirring  a  sufficient  quantity  of  Curry-stuff,  see 
(No.  455,)  into  gravy,  or  melted  butter,  or  onion  sauce,  (Nos. 
297,  298,)  or  onion  gravy  (No.  299  or  339.) 


'  eUAVlteS   AHD  SAVGKfe.  '265 

Tfaa  composhioDs  of  Curry  Powder  and  tbe  Palates  of  thoM 
wbo  eat  it  vary  so  much,  that  we  cannot  recommend  any  ipe- 
cific  quantity.  The  Cook  moBt  add  it  by  degrees,  tasting  m 
she  proceeds,  and  take  care  not  to  put  in  too  nmch, 

ois. έΑΦ ^The  Curry  Powder  (No.  455,)  approximates  more  searly  to 
the  bc┬τt  Indian  Curry  ┬τtuff,  and  is  an  af  reeable  and  well  blenided 
mixture  of  tiiis  class  of  aromatics. 

N.  B.  To  dress  Curritt^  see  (No.  497.) 

Essence  tfHam.  (No.  351.) 

Essence  of  Ham  and  of  Beef  may  be  purchased  at  the 
Eatiog-hoases  which  cat  up  those  joints, έΑΦ the  former  for  half 
a  crown  or  three  shillings  a  Quart :  it  is  therefore  a  most  Eco- 
nomical relish  for  Made  Dishes,  and  to  ^yepiquance  to  Sauces, 

ei&v. 

GriU  Sauce.  (No.  355.) 

To  half  a  pint  of  Gravy  (No.  329,)  add  an  ounce  of  fresh 
Butter,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Flour,  pre?iously  well  rubbed 
toother,  tbe  same  of  Mushroom,  or  Walnut  Catsup, έΑΦ two  tea- 
epoonsful  of  Lemon  juice,  one  of  made  Mustard,  one  of  Caper, 
balf  a  one  of  black  Pepper,  a  quarter  of  the  riod  of  a  Lemon, 
^ated  very  thin,  a  teaspoonful  of  Essence  of  Anchovies,  and  a 
little  Shallot  wine  (No.  402,)  or  a  very  amall  piece  of  minced 
Shallot,  and  a  little  Chilli  Vinegar  (No.  405,)  or  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne,  simmer  together  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  a  lit- 
tle of  it  over  the  Grill,  and  send  up  the  rest  in  a  sauce  tureen. 
Eor  Anchovy  toasts  (No.  573  or  538.) 

Or, 

Sauce  a  la  Tartare. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  three  hard  yolks  of  Eggs,  put  them  into  a 
Basin,  and  add  half  a  tablespoonful  of  made  Mustard,  and  a 
little  Pepper  and  Salt,-^pour  to  it  by  degrees,  stirring  it  fast  all 
the  while,  about  two  wineglassesful  of  salad  oil, έΑΦ stir  it  to- 
gether till  it  comes  to  a  good  thickness. 

N.  B.  A  little  Tarragon  or  Chervil  minced  very  finely,  and  a 
little  Vinegar  may  be  added,  or  some  of  the  ingredients  enu- 
merated in  (No.  372.) 

Obs, έΑΦ ^This  from  the  French  Artist  who  wrote  the  Receipt  for  dress- 
ing a  Turtle. 

Obs. έΑΦ These  are  piquanle  relishes  for  Anchovy  toasts  f  No.  573,)  or 
fNo.  538 ;)  for  Broiled  DeviUy  &c.  "  VeriiabU  Sauce  d'Enfer,"  spe 
(No.  538,)  and  a  refreshing  excitement  for  those  idle  palltes,  who  are 

23  ^ 


266  GRAVIES    AND  SAUCES. 

M  incessiiDtly   mambUng   out  "ptquatUCf  piquanUf"  as  Farrois  d┬τ 
"  Pretiif  Pollf  Prtlty  Poll." 

**  For  paktet  grown  ealloaf  almost  to  diieasey 
"  Who  pepper*  the  highest  it  rarest  to  please." 

Gaiditnith. 

SAUCB/or  Steaks,  or  Chops,  Cutlets,  &c. έΑΦ (No.  356.) 

See  also  (No.  331.) 

Take  your  Chops  out  of  the  Frying  Pan  ; έΑΦ for  a  pound  of 
meat,  keep  a  tablespoonfui  of  the  Fat  in  the  Pan,  or  put  in 
about  an  ounce  of  Butter, έΑΦ put  to  it  as  much  Flour  as  wUl 
make  it  a  paste,  rub  it  well  together  over  the  ┬μre  till  ibey  are  a 
little  brown, έΑΦ then  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  reduce  it 
to  the  thickness  of  good  Cream,  and  a  tablespoonful  o(  Mufih- 
room,  or  Walnut  Catsup,  or  Pickle,  or  Browning  (No.  ^%j 
or  (No.  449 ;) έΑΦ let  it  boil  together  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  it 
through  a  sieve  to  the  Steaks,  &c. 

06s. έΑΦ To  the  ehowe  is  sometimes  added  a  sliced  Oaion,  or 
a  minced  Eshallot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  Port  wine,  or  a  little 
Shallot  wine  (Nos.  40^,  4^3,  or  135.)  Garnish  with  Bnely 
scraped  Horseradish  or  pickled  Walnuts,  Gherkins,  &c.  Some 
Beef  Elders  like  chopped  Shallots  in  one  Sauce  and  Horse- 
radish grated  in  Vinegar  in  another.  Broiled  Mushrooms  are 
favourite  relishes  to  Beef  Steaks. 

(No.  359,)  Sauce  Piquante  for  Cold  Meat,  Game^  Poultry, 
Fish,  Sfc,  or  Salads, έΑΦ See  also  (No.  372,)  and  Cucumber 
Vinegar  (Nos.  399  and  453.) 

Pound  in  a  mortar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  that  have  been 
boiled  hard  (No.  547,)  with  a  mustardspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard, and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of 
&alad  oil,  mix  well,  and  then  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  Viiie- 
gar,  rub  it  up  well  till  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  pass  it  through  a 
tammis  or  sieve. 

Obs. έΑΦ To  the  above  some  add  an  Anqhovy  or  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  Walnut  Pickle,  some  finely  chop- 
ped Parsley, έΑΦ grated  Horseradish,έΑΦ ^r  young  Onions  mioced, 
or  Burnet  (No.  399,)  Horseradish  (No.  399*  or  402,) έΑΦ or 
Tarragon,  or  Elder  Vinegar  (Np.  396,)  &c.  and  Cayenne,  ^r 
minced  Pickles,  Capers,  &c.  This  is  a  jnquante  relish  for 
Lobsters,  Crabs,  oold  fisli,  &c┬τ 


GRAVIES    AND   SAUCES.  267 

(No.  360.)  Sauce  for  Hashes  or  Muttow,  or  Bbev. έΑΦ Set 
also  (Nos.  451,  485,)  and  to  make  plain  Hash  (No.  480.) 

Unless  yoQ  are  quite  sure  you  perfectly  understaDd  the 
Palate  of  those  you  are  working  for, έΑΦ show  those  who  art  to  eai 
the  Hash  this  Receipt^  and  beg  of  them  to  direct  you  how  Ihey 
wish  it  seasoned. 

Half  the  number  of  the  Ingredients  enumerated  will  be  more 
than  enough, έΑΦ but  as  it  is  a  Receipt  so  often  wanted,  we  have 
giVen  variety.     See  also  (No.  486.) 

To  prepare  the  Meaty  (see  No.  484.) 

Chop  the  Bones  and  fragments  of  the  joint,  &c.  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  and  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  six 
berries  of  Black  pepper,  the  same  of  Allspice,  a  small  bundle  of 
Parsley,  half  a  head  of  Celery  cut  in  pieces,  and  a  smafl  sprig 
of  Savory,  or  Lemontbyme,  or  sweet  Marjoram  ;  cover  up,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

Slice  balfan  ounce  of  Onion  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with 
Unounce  of  BuUer>  fry  it  over  a  ^harp  fire  for  about  a  couple  of 
minutes,  till  it  takes  a  little  colour ;  then  stir  in  as  much  Flour 
as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  and  by  degrees  mix  with  it  the  gra- 
vy  you  have  made  from  the  bones,  &c. ;  let  it  boil  very  gently 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  it  is  the  consistence  of  thick 
cream,  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or  sieve  into  a  basin  ;  put  it 
back  into  .the  stewpan  :  to  season  it,  see  (No.  451,)  or  cut  in 
a  few  pickled  Onions, έΑΦ or  Walnuts, έΑΦ or  a  couple  of  Gherkins, 
έΑΦ anid  a  tablespoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup, έΑΦ or  Walnut,  or 
other  Pickle  Liquor, έΑΦ or  some  Capers,  and  Caper  Liquor, έΑΦ 
έΑλr  a  tablespoonful  of  Ale, έΑΦ or  a  Utile  Shallot,  or  Tarragon 
Vinegar,έΑΦ cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  Sippets  of  Bread, 
(that  they  may  become  savoury  reservoirs  of  Gravy,)  which 
some  tcast,  and  cut  into  triangles. έΑΦ You  may  garnish  it  with 
fried  Bread  Sippets  (No.  319.) 

N.  B.  To  HASH  MEAT  IN  PERFECTION, έΑΦ It  should  be  laid  in  this 
Gravy  only  jast  long  enough  to  get  properly  warm  through. 

0&┬τ. έΑΦ If  any  of  the  gravy  that  wan  sent  up  with,  or  ran  from  the 
joint  when  it  was  roasteil,  be  left,  it  will  be  a  great  improvement  to 
the  Hash. 

If  you  wish  to  make  Mock  Venison, έΑΦ instead  of  the  Onion,  put  in 
two  or  three  Cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  Currant  Jelly,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  Claret  or  Fort  wine,  instead  of  the  Catsup. 

You  may  make  a  Curry  Hash  by  adding  some  of  (No.  456.) 

N.  B  A  pint  of  (No.  329)  is  an  cxceHent  Gravy  to  warm  up  either 
Meat|  or  Poultry. 


^S8  ^RAYUCS   AND   SAUC┬μ$┬τ 

&mce/or  Basked,  or  Mnced  VeaL      (No.  36l.) 
Se┬τ(No.511.) 

Take  tlie  bones  of  cold  roast  or  boiled^  Yeal,  dredge  tbem 
well  with  flour*  aod  pol  (hem  into  a  slevrpan,  with  a  pint  aid 
a  half  of  broth  or  water,  a  ainaU  Ooiooy  a  littla  grate^  or  ^a┬τ^f 
mioced  Lemoo-peel,  or  the  peel  of  a  quarter  of  a  sniall  Lemoo, 
pared  as  thio  as  possible,  half  a  teaapoooful  of  salt,  an4  ft  blade 
of  poaoded  Mace; έΑΦ to  Thicken it^  rub  a  tablespoonful  of 
Flour  into  half  an  ounce  of  Batter ;  stir  it  into  the  broth,  aod 
set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  rery  gently  for  about  half  mu 
hour,  strain  through  a  tammis  or  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  pal  (a 
the  Teal  to  warm  up,  which  is  to  b^  done  by  placing  the  stew* 
pan  by  the  side  of  the  fipe.     Squeeze  in  bajf  a  lemon,  and 
corer  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  toasted  bread  sippets  cut  into 
triangle^,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon. 
See  (Nos.  bW  and  527.) 

okέΑΦ Read  (No.  484  ;)  a  little  Basil  Wine   (No.  3?7,) 
gives  an  agreeaUe  Yeget9bl<^  ffli^h  \Q  Qsshed  Yeal 

Bechamel,  by  Eln^isk  Cook$  commowty  caUed  White  Savoe. 

(No.  364.) 

Out  in  square  pieces  half  an  inch  thick,  two  pounds  of  Lean 
Veal,  half  a  pound  of  lean  Ham,  melt  in  a  stewpaa  two  ounces 
of  Butter  ;  when  melted,  let  the  whole  simmer  until  it  is  ready 
to  catch  at  the  Bottom,  (it  requires  great  attention^  as  if  it  hap* 
pen  to  catch  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  it  will  spoil  the  look 
of  your  Sauce^)  then  add  to  it  three  tablespoons ful  of  flour ; 
when  well  mixed,  add  to  it  three  pints  of  broth  or  water,  pour 
a  little  at  a  time,  that  the  thickening  be  smooth,  stir  it  until  it 
boil,  put  the  stewpan  on  the  corner  of  the  stove  to  boil  gentJy 
for  two  hours,  season  it  with  four  cloves,  one  onion,  twelve 
pepper-corns,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  a  fagot 
made  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a  bay-leaf.     Let  the 
Sauce  reduce  to  a  quart,  skim  the  fat  ofi^,  and  strain  it  through 
a  tammis  cloth. 

To  make  a  Bechamel  Saxjcb,  add  to  a  quart  of  the  above, 
a  pint  of  good  cream,  stir  it  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  good  thick* 
ness ;  a  few  mushrooms  give  a  good  flavour  to  that  Sauee ; 
strain  it  through  a  tammis  cloth. 

Obs, έΑΦ The  above  was  given  us  by  a  French  artist. 


GRAVIES   ANP    SAUCES.  269 

A  more  economical  Method  of  making  a  Pint  of  White 

Sauce.  fNo.  365,No.2.> 

Put  equal  parts  of  broth  and  milk  into  a  stawpao  iirith  an 
QBiOQ  and  a  blade  of  mace^  set  oa  the  fire  to  boil  tea  mioutes, 
bare  ready  aod  rub  together  on  a  plate  an  ounce  of  Floor  and 
Butter,  put  into  the  stewpan;  stir  it  well  till  it  boila  up,  then 
stand  it  near  the  fire  or  stove,  stirring  it  every  now  and  then- till 
it  becomes  quite  smooth,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieye  into  a 
basin,  put  it  back  into  the  stewpan,  season  it  with  salt  and  the- 
juice  of  a  sinaU  lemon,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  Eggs  well  with 
about  three  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into 
your  Sauce,  stir  it  well  and  keep,  it  negr  the  fire,  but  be  sure 
and  do  not  let  it  boil,  for  it  will  curdle. 

06s, έΑΦ A  convenient  veil  for  Boiled  Fowls,  45c.  whose  com- 
plejxions  are  not  inviting. 

Menu  With  the  assistance  of  the  Magazine  of  Taste  (No. 

41S3f)  you  may  give  this  Sauce  a  variety  of  flavours. 

Oh*. έΑΦ ^BixHAHEL  implies  a  thick  white  Sauce,  approaching  to  a 
Batter, έΑΦ and  takes  its  n^me  from  a  wealthy  French  Marquess yinin/r┬τ 
d*hotel  de  Louis  XIV,  and  famous  for  his  patronag^e  of  let  OJjmtrt  dt 
Bouche, έΑΦ who  have  immortalized  him  by  calling  by  his  name  this  de- 
licate composition. 

Most  of  the  French  Sauces  take  their  name  from  the  person  whose 
palate  they  first  pleased,  a^  **  a  Id  Jlidintenon  ;"  or  from  some  famous ^ 
Cook  who  invented  them,  as  "  Sauce  Robert,*'  "  a  la  Moniizeur,*'  &c. 
^  We  have  in  our  Eoglish  kitchen,  our  "  Argyll"  for  Gravy,  and  the- 
l^tle  <<  Sandwich"  monuments '' <Ere  |7erenmti┬τ," 


-**  And  that  Motueith 


**  Has,,  by  one  veuel,  nred  his  Name  fnun  Death.** 

Poivrade  Sawse,  (No.  366.) 

This,  as  its  title  tells  us,  is  a  Sauce  of  French  extraction. 
The  following  receipt  is  fron^^^ La  Cuisiniere  Bourgeoises^ 
page  408* 

"  Put  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg  into  a  stewpan  with 
two  or  three  onions^  carrots,  and  turnips  cut  in  slices,  a  clove- 
of  garlick,  two  shallots,  two  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme,  and  basil, 
keep  turning  them  in  the  pan  till  they  get  a  little  colour, έΑΦ shake 
in  some  flour,  and  add  a  glass  of  red  Wipe,  a  glass  of  water, . 
and  a  spoonful  of  Vinegar,  and  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt,  boil 
half  an  hour,  skim  and  strain  it." 
23* 


270  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES* 

Mustard  in  a  Minute.  (No.  369.) 

Mix  very  gradually,  aod  rub  together  in  a  mortar,  an  ounce* 
of  flour  of  Mustard,  vfith  three  tablespoonsful  of  Milk,  (cream 
is  better),  half  a  teaspoonfut  of  Salt,  and  the  same  of  sugar, 
rub  them  well  together  till  quite  smooth. 

06s. έΑΦ Mustard  made  in  this  manner,  is  not  at  all  bitter,  and 
is  therefore  instantly  ready  for  the  table. 

N.  B.  It  has  be^n  said  that  Flour  of  Mustard  is  sometimes 
adulterated  with  common  flour  &c.  &c. 

Mustard.  [No.  370.'] 

Mix  (by  degrees,  by  rubbing  together  in  a  mortar)  the  best 
Durham  flour  of  Mustard,  vvith  cold  water,  in  wbicb  scraped 
Horseradish  has  been  boiled,  rub  it  well  together  till  it  is  per^ 
fecUy  smooth  :  it  will  keep  in  a  stone  jar,  closely  stopped  for  a 
fortnight ; έΑΦ ordy  put  as  much  into  the  Mustard  pot  as  toill  be 
used  in  a  day  or  lux>. 

Thq  READY  MADE  MusTASD,  prepared  at  the  oil  shops,  is 
mixed  with  about  one  fourth  part  salt :  this  is  useful  to  pre* 
serve  it,  if  it  is  to  be  kept  long ;  otherwise,  by  all  means  omit 
it. έΑΦ The  best  way  of  eating  Salt,  is  in  substance. 

%*&f  also  Recipe  (No.  427.) 

Obs. έΑΦ We  believe  Mustard  is  the  best  of  all  stimulants  that  are 
employed  to  give  energy  .to' the  Digestive  organs. έΑΦ Some  opulent  Ep- 
icures, mix  it  with  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  or  distilled,  or  flavoured 
Vinegar  instead  of  Horseradish  water. 

The  French  flavour  their  Mustard  with  Champaigne,  aad  other 
Wines, έΑΦ Capers, έΑΦ Anchovies, έΑΦ ^Tarragon, έΑΦ Elder, έΑΦ ^Basil, έΑΦ Burnet, 
έΑΦ (>arlick, έΑΦ Shallot,  or  Celery  Vinegar ;  the  various  Apices ; έΑΦ Sweet, 
έΑΦ Savoury } έΑΦ ^fine  Herbs, έΑΦ Truffles, έΑΦ Catsups, έΑΦ kc.  iic.  and  seem  to 
consider  Mustard  merely  as  a  vehicle  of  flavours. 

Salt.  (No.  371.) 

Is  "  aUorum  condimeniorum  Condimentum^^  as  Plutarch 
calls  it,   Saiue  for  Sauce. 

Common  Salt  is  more  relishing  than  Basket  Salt ; έΑΦ it  sbouU 
be  prepared  for  the  Table,  by  drying  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  before 
the  fire;  then  put  it  on  a  clean  paper,  and  roll  it  with  a  rolling 
pin  ; έΑΦ if  you  pound  it  in  a  Mortar  till  it  is  quite  fine,  it  will 
look  as  welt  as  basket  Salt, 

*^*  Select  for  Table  use  ike  Lumps  of  Salt, 
Obs. έΑΦ Your  Salt  Box  roust  have  a  close  cover,  and  be  kept 
io  a  dry  place. 


GRAVIES   AND    SAtJCES.  271 

(No.   37^.)  Salad    Mixture,  see  also  (No.  138*,)  imd 
(No.  45  S.) 

Sadearour  to  have  your  Salad  herbs  as  fresh  as  possible :  if 

you  suspect  they  are  not  *'  morning  gathered,*'    they   will  be 

much  refreshed  by  laying  an  hour  in  cold  spring  water ;  then 

carefully  wash  and  pick  then,  and  trim  o┬μf  all  the  worm-eateo, 

slimy,  cankered,  dry  leaves,  and  after  washing,  let  them  remaia 

a  while  in  the  cullender  to  drain,  lastly  swing  them  gently  io  a 

clean  coarse  napkin  ;-^wheo  properly  picked  and  cut,   arrange 

them  in  the  Salad  Dish, έΑΦ mix  the  Sauce  io  a  Soup  plate,  and 

put  it  into  an  Ingredient  Bottlef ,  or  pour  it  down  the  side  of  the 

Salad  Dish, έΑΦ and  don't  stir  it  till  the  mouths  are  ready  for  it. 

If  the  Herbs  be  young, έΑΦ fresh   gathered, έΑΦ trimmed  neatly, 

and  drained  dry, έΑΦ and  the  Sauce  maker  ponders  patiently  over 

the  following  directions, έΑΦ he  cannot  fail  obtaining  the  fame  of 

being  a  very  accomplished  Salad-dresser. 

Boil  a  couple  of  Eggs  for  twelve  minutes,  and  put  them  in  a 
basin  of  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,έΑΦ *tAe  Yolks  must  he  quite 
cold  and  hard,  or  they  willmot  incorporate  with  the  Ingredients, 
Rub  them  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  mix  them 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  Water,  or  fine  double  Cream,  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Oil  or  melted  Butler  ;  when  these  are 
well  mixed,  add  by  degrees,  a  teaspoon ful  of  Salt,  or  powdered 
lump  Sugar,  and  the  same  of  made  Mustard ;  when  these  are 
smoolbly  united,  add  very  graduially  three  tablespooosful  of 
Vinegar,  rub  it  with  the  other  ingredients  till  thoroughly  incor- 
porated with  them  :  cut  up  the  white  of  the  egg,  and  garnish 
the  top  of  the  salad  with  it.  Let  the  Sauce  remain  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  Bowl,  and  do  not  stir  up  the  Salad  till  itis  to  be  eat- 
en ; έΑΦ we  recommend  the  Eaters  to  be  mindful  of  the  duty  of 
mastication, έΑΦ without  the  due  performance  of  which,  all  un- 
dressed vegetables  are  troublesome  company  for  the  principal 
viscera,  and  some  are  even  dangerously  indigestible. 

N.  B  The  above  Sauce  is  equally  good  with  cold  Meat, έΑΦ 

cold  Fish, έΑΦ ^or  for  Cucumbers, έΑΦ Celery, έΑΦ Radishes,  &c.,(and 

all  the  other  Vegetables  that  are  sent  to  table' undressed) ;  to  the 

above,  a  little  rainced  Onion  is  generally  an  acceptable  addition. 

Obs. έΑΦ Salad  is  a  very  compound  dish  with   our  neig^hbours  the 


i-  These  are  sold  at  the  Otaw  ibops,  under  the  name  of  Incorpvrmwsy-^xrt  recom- 
mend  thesaace  to  he  mixed  in  these,  and  the  Companj  cms  then  take  it,  or  leave  it* 
dttthejlike. 


272  QiUVlt^  AWD  SAUCES. 

Frenchi  whoi  alwajt  add  to  the  mixture  aboye.  Black  Pepper,  and 
έΑλometimes  Savoury  Spices. 

The  Itidianf  mince  the  white  meat  of  Chickens  into  Uiis.a┬τwce. 

The  Dutch,  cold  boiled  Xurbot,  or  Lobgter ;  or  add  to  it  a  spooalol 
of  grated  Parmesan  or  cold  Cheshire  cheese^  or  mince  very  fine  a  lit- 
tle TarraaonjέΑΦChenril,έΑΦ Burnet,έΑΦ or  young  Onion, έΑΦ Celery,έΑΦ ┬τr 
pickled  Gherkins,  &c. 

Joan  Cromwtir*  Chraud  Sahd  was  con]4[>osed  of  equal  parts  έΑλ┬μ  Al- 
monds, Raisins,  Capers,  Pickled  Cucumbers,  Shrimps^  and  Boiled 
Turnips. 

This  mixture  ts  itbmething  made  with  cream,  oiled  butter,  (see  No, 
260*,)  or  some  good  jelly  of  meat,  (which  many  prefer  to  the  iinest 
Florence  oil,)  and  flavoured  with  SUdad  Mixture  (No.  4fi3,)B┬τsji  (No. 
397,  er  Cress  or  Celery  Vinegar  (No.  397*,)  Horseradish  Finegar 
(No.  399*,)  Cucumber  Vinegar  (No.  399,)  Tarragon,  or  Elder  Vine- 
gar ;  essence  of  Celery  (No.  409,)  Walnut  or  Lemon  P'lcUe,  or  a  έΨι 
sUce  of  Lemon  cut  into  dice,- essence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433.) 

F0RCI;MEAT  stuffings.       (No.  373.) 

Forcemeat  is  now  considered  an  indispensable  aocompani- 
ment  to  most  Made  Dishes,  and  when  composed  with  good 
taste,  ^ives  additional  spirit  and  relish  to  e?en  that  '*  Sorenigo 
of  Savouriness,"  Turtle  soup. 

It  is  also  sent  up  in  Patties,  and  for  stuffing  of  Veal,  Game, 
Poultry,  &c. 

The  ingredients  should  be  so  proportioned,  that  no  one  fla- 
TOur  predominates ; έΑΦ instead  of  giving  the  same  stuffing  for 
Veal,  Hare,  &c.  with  a  little  contrivance,  you  may  make  as 
great  a  variety  as  you  have  Dishes. 

I  have  given  Receipts  for  some  of  the  most  favourijte  com- 
positions, and  a  Table  of  Maierials,  a  glance  at  which  will  en- 
able the  ingenious  Cook  to  make  an  infinite  variety  of  combi- 
nations ;  the  first  tolumn  coptaining  the  spirit,  the  second  ih&- 
substance  of  them. 

The  poignancy  of  Forcemeat  should  be  proportioned  to  the  > 
savouriness  of  the  viands,  to  which  it  is  intended  to  give  an 
additional  Zest.  Some  dishes  require  a  very  delicately  flavour* 
ed  forcemeat,-έΑΦ for  others,  it  must  be  full  and  high  seasoned. 
What  would  hepiquante  in  a  Turkey,  would  be  insipid  with 
Turtle. 

Tastes  are  so  different, έΑΦ and  the  praise  the  Cook  recieves, 
will  depend  so  much  on  her  pleasing  the  palate  of  those  she 
works  for,  that  all  her  sagaciy  must  be  on  the  alert,  to  produce 
the  flavours  to  which  her  employers  are  partial.  See  page  59 
and  53* 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCIS. 


275 


Most  peoj^e  bftTe  aa  acquired*  and  pecoliar  taste  ioMoiBiip, 
&c.  and  what  exactly  pleasea  ooe┬╗  seldom  it  pradsely  ┬╗lMt 
another  contideis  the  most  agreeable  ;  and  after  all  the  eootri* 
Tances  of  a  paios-takiog  palatician,  to  combioe  her  ^  Aoutge^t^ 
ID  the  most  barrooDious  preportionsy. 

*<  The  yery  duh  one  liket  the  bett, 
It  Mid,  or  mtipid)  to  the  reft.** 

Cusiom^is  all  in  all,  in  matters  of  Taste, έΑΦ it  is  not  that  ooe 
person  ift  naturally  fbfid  of  this  or  that,  and  another  naturally 
a  verse  4o  it, έΑΦ but  that  one  is  used  to  it,  and  another  is  not. 

The  consistency  of  Forcemeats  is  rather  a  difficult  thing  to 
manage  ;  they  are  almost  always  either  too  light  or  too  heavy. 

Take  care  to  pound  it  iHLperfecUy  smooth,  and.  thai  all  the 
ingrtdUnts  are  thoroughly  incorpoi^.d. 

Forcemeat  balls  must  not  be  larger  than  a  small  nutmeg, έΑΦ 
if  they  are  for  Brown  Sauce^  flour  them  and  fry  them ;  if  for 
Whitey  pat  thw  iflto  boiJioff  waier^  ^vti  boil  them  for  three 
minutes  ;  the  Utter  are  by  far  the  roost  delicate. 

N.  Ri  If  not  of  sufficient  stiffness,  it  falls  to  pieces,  S┬τ4 
mflfcee  Soupy  &c.  grouty  and' very  unsightl3^ 

SveBBTBBBADs  and  ToNQUEs  are  the  fa?ourite  materialfr  for 
foreemeal. 

Matbrials  used,  for   Forcbmbat,  Stukfings,,  &c. 


SpurU* 


X 


$ 


Common  Tbyme. 

Lemon  Thyme. 

Orange  Thyme. 

Sweet  Marjoram. 

Summer  and 

Winter  SliTonry. 

9ag-e. 

Tarragon  No.  396. 

Chervil. 

Bornet  (No.  309.) 

Basil  (No.  397.) 

Bay-leaf. 

Truffles  and 

Morrels. 

Mttghroom-  Powder  (No.  489.) 

Leek┬╗. 

Onions. 


u 
c 

^  J? 


Substonee^ 
Flour. 

Crumbft  of  Bread. 
Parsley.     See  N.B.  (No.  26L) 
Spinach. 
Boiled  Onion. 

Mashed  PoUtoes  (No.  106.) 
Yolks  of  bard  I^ggs  (No.  574.) 
Mutton . 
Beef. 

Veal  Suet,t  or  Marrow. 
Calfs  Udder,  or  Brains. 
Parboiled  Sweetbread. 
Veal  minced  and  pounded,  and 
Potted  Meats,  &c.  (No.  603.) 


,t  If  yoQ  have  BO  Saet,έΑΦ the  bett  sabstitnte  for  it  if  tbootonMhird  part  thcansa- 
tity  of  Butter,  ^ 


274  GRAVIES   AND  SAUCES. 


Spirit  eortiinued, 
┬μ8haUot(No.402) 
Garlick. 
Lemon  Peel,  ste  (Nog.  -407  aod 

408.) 
Sbrimps  (No.  175.) 
Prawns. 
Crabs. 

Lobsters  (No>.  176  and  178.) 
Oysters. 

Anchovy  CNo.  433.; 
Dressed  Tongue.      See   N.  B.  to 

(No.  373.) 
Ham. 


Spirit  eontinued. 
Bacon. 

Black  or  White  Pepper, 
Allspice. 
Mace. 
CinoamoQ. 
Ginger. 
Nutmegs. 
Cloves. 

Savoury  Powder  (No.4d6.) 
Soup  Herb  Powder  (No.  467.) 
Curry  Powder  (No.  455.^ 
Cayenne  (No.  404,; 
Zest  fNo.  255.; 


For  Liquidsy  you  have  Meat  Gravy,  Lemon  Juice,  Syrup 
of  Lemons  (Nos.  391  andU  477,)  Essence  of  Anchovy,  see 
(No.  433,)  the  various  Vegetable  Essences,  see  (No.  407,)  and 
Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  and  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
Eggs, έΑΦ Wineg^-T^andjliejlssence  of  Spices. 

Stuffijigfor  Veal,  Roast  Turkey,  Fowl^c.  (No,374.y 

έΑΦMittcra  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Beef  Suet,  (Beef  Marrow 
is  better,)  the  same  weight  of  Bread  Crumbs,  two  drachms  of 
Parsley  leaves,  a  drachm  and  a  half  of  sweet  Marjoram  (or 
Lemon-thyme),  and  the  same  of  grated  Lemon-peel,  and  On- 
ion or  Eshallot,  chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  a  little  grated  Nut- 
meg, Pepper  and  Salt; έΑΦ pound  thoroughly  together  with  the 
yolk  and  white  of  two  Eggs,  and  secure  it  in  the  Veal  with  a 
ekewer,  or  sew  it  in  with  a  bit  of  thread. 

Make  some  ofit  into  Balls  or  Sausages,  flour  them,  and 
boil,  or  fry  them,  and  send  them  up  as  a  garnish^  or  a  side  dish, 
with  roast  Poultry,  Veal,  or  Cutlets,  &c. 

N.  B.  This  is  about  the  quantity  for  a  Turkey  PoTilt;  a 

very  large  Turkey   will  take  nearly  twice  as  much.      To  the 

above  may  be  added  an  ounce  of  dressed  Ham, έΑΦ or  use  equal 

parts  of  the  above  Stuffing,  and  Pork  Sausage  Meat   (No.  87) 

pounded  well  together. 

Obs. έΑΦ Good  Stuffing  has  always  been  considered  a  chef'de'muvrc  ia 
Cookery  ;  U  has  given  imroortanty  to 

*<Foor  Roger  Fowler,  wboM  agenerom  mind. 
Nor  would  submit  to  have  his  band  confinM, 
But  aimed  at  all,έΑΦ yet  never  could  txcell 
Ib  any  thins  bat  Stuffing  of  his  Veal  .*^ 

Veal  Forcemeat.  (No.  375.) 

Of  undressed  lean  Veal,    (after  you  have   scraped  it  quite 
fine,  aod  free  from  skin  and  sinews,)  two  ounces,    the  same 


ORAVIES   AND  SA^CSS.  215 

quantity  oC  Beef  or  Veal  Suet,  and  the  same  of  Bread 
Crumbs,  chop  fine  two  drachms  of  Parsle}',  one  of  Lemon- 
peel,  one  of  Sweet  Herbs,  one  of  Ooioo,  aod  half  a  drachm  of 
Mace,  or  Allspice,  (beaten  to  fioe  powder)  ;  pound  all  togeth- 
er in  a  mortar,  break  into  it  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  Egg; έΑΦ 
lub  it  all  up  well  together,  and  season  it  with  a  little  |)epper 
and  salt. 

Obs, έΑΦ This  may  be  made  more  savoury  by  the  addition  of 
cold  boiled  pickled  Tongue,  Anchovy,  Eshallot,  Cayenne,  or 
Curry  powder,  &c. 

Stuffing f9r  Boiled  Turkey.     (No.  377.) 

Tak^  the  foregoing  composition  for  the  Hoast  Turkey, έΑΦ or 
add  the  soft  part  of  a  dozen  Oysters  to  it, έΑΦ an  Anchovy, έΑΦ or  a 
little  grated  Ham,  or  Tongue,  if  you  like  it,  is  still  more  relish- 
ing. 

Pork  Sausage  Meat  is  sometimes  used  to  stuff  Turkles,  and 
JPowls, έΑΦ or  fried,  and  sent  upas  a  Garnish. 

Goose  or  Duck  Stuffing,         (No.  378.) 

Chop  very  line  about  two  ounces  of  Onion, έΑΦ of  green 
Sage  leaves  about  an  ounce,  (both  unboiled,)  four  ounces  of 
Bread  Crumbs,  the  yolk  and  whi^e  of  an  Egg,  and  a  little  pep* 
per  and  salt;  some  add  to  this  a  minced  Ap[^e. 

For  another,  see  Roasted  Goose  and  Duck  (Nos.  59  and 
61),  which  latter  we  like  as  Forcemeat  Balls  for  Mock  Turtle; 
then  add  a  little  Lemon-peel,  and  warm  it  with  Cayenne. 

Stitffing  for  Hare,  (No.  379.) 

Two  ounces  of  Beef  Suet  chopped  fine, έΑΦ three  ounces  of 
fine  Bread  Crumbs, έΑΦ Parsley,  a  drachm, έΑΦ Shallot,  half  a 
drachm, έΑΦ a  drachm  of  Marjoram,  Lemon-thyme,  or  Winter 
Savory,  a  drachm  of  grated  Lemon-peel, έΑΦ half  a  drachm  of 
Nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  Pepper  and  Salt ; έΑΦ mix  these  with 
the  white  and  yolk  of  an  Egg, έΑΦ do  not  make  it  thin έΑΦ it  must 
be  of  cohesive  consistence, έΑΦ if  your  sliilBng  is  not  stiff  enough, 
it  will  be  good  for  nothing, έΑΦ put  it  in  the  bare,  and  sew  it  up. 

*J^  If  the  Liver  is  quite  sound,  you  may  parboil  it,  and 
mince  it  very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  above, 

(No.  380.)  Forcemeat  Balls  for  Turtle,  Mock  Turtle,  or  Made 

Dishes.See  also  (No.  375.) 
Pound  some  Veal  in  a  marble  mortar,  rub  it  through  a  sieve 


ire  ^AAVffiS  AlTD  ^SAJfGia. 

With  ai  ttaeh  of  Um  uddw  iiyou  kata  Vaal,  or  aboota  tfiird 
the  quantity  of  Battar  ;-^ut3oma  Bread-cnimba  into  a  atew- 

Sin,  moistaD  them  with  miik,  add  a  litlla  chopped  Panlay  and 
ballot,  rob  tbam  well  together  in  a  ibortary  till  they  foim  a 
imooth  paste;  ptit  it  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold,  poQnd, 
and  mix  all  together,  with  the  yoUa  of  three  Bgga  boiled  btid; 
season  it  With  salt,  pepper,  and  Curry  |X)wder,  or  'Cayania, 
add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw  Eggs,  rub  it  well  together,  aad 
make  small  halte:  ten  minutes  befbre  your  Soup  is  ready,  pat 
them  io. 

^Fot  Fish  Forcemeat,  See  App┬τ  L 

Egg  Balls.  (No.  SU.) 

Boil  four  Eggs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  them  into  eoU 
water, έΑΦ when  they  are  quite  cold,  put  the  yolks  into  a  mortir 
with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  a  teaspoooful  of  floor,  same  of  chop- 
ped parsley,  as  much  salt  as  will  lay  on  a  shilling,  and  a  litlle 
black  pepper,  or  Cayenne,  rub  them  well  together,  roll  them  io- 
b  small  Balls,  (as  they  swell  in  boiling,) έΑΦ boil  theai  a  cou]^ 
ofminufe^. 

Brain  BaUs, 

See  (No.  347),  or  beat  up  the  brains  of  a  Calf  in  the  waj 
we  have  above  directed  the  Egg. 


Curry  Bails,  for  Mock  Turtle,  Veal,  PouUry,  Made  Dishes  ifc 

(No.  3M.) 
Are  made  with  Bread-crumbs,  the  yolk  of  an  Egg  boiled 
hard,  and  a  bit  of  fresh  Batter  about  half  as  big,  beaten  togeth- 
er in  a  mortar,  and  seasoned  with  Curry  powder,  see  (No.  455) ; 
make  and  prepare  small  Balls,  as  directed  in  (No.  381.) 

Orange  or  Lemon  Peel,  to  mix  wiih8btjffing,  (No.  387.) 

Peel  a  Seville  Orange,  or  Lemon,  very  thin,  taking  off  only 
the  fine  ytUow  rind,  without  any  of  the  white,  pound  it  in  a 
mortar  with  a  bit  of  lump  sugar,  rub  it  well  with  the  peel, έΑΦ ^by 
degrees  add  a  little  of  the  forcemeat  it  is  to  be  mixed  with ; 
when  it  is  well  ground  and  blended  with  this,  mix  it  with  the 
whole :  there  is  no  other  way  of  incorporating  it  so  well. 

Forcemeats  ^c.  are  frequently  spoiled  by  the  iosufficient 
mixing  of  the  ingredients. 


GRAVIS8  AND   SAUCES.  277 

CUmUd  or  CtoUed  Cream.  (No.  388.) 
The  milk  which  is  put  into  the  paos  one  morDing  stands  till 
the  next ;  then  set  the  pan  on  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a  Copper 
Tray*)-,  half  full  of  water, έΑΦ put  this  over  a  stove ;  in  from 
ten  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  quantity  of  the  milk 
and  the  size  of  the  pan,  it  will  be  enough, έΑΦ the  sign  of  which 
is,  that  bladders  rise  on  its  surface  ;  this  denotes  that  it  is  near 
boiling,  which  it  must  by  no  means  do;  and  it  must  be  in- 
stantly removed  from  the  fire,  and  placed  in  the  dairy  till  the 
aext  morning,  >when  the  fine  cream  is  thrown  up,  and  is  ready 
for  the  table,  or  for  Butter,  into  which  it  is  soon  converted  by 
stirring  it  with  the  hand. 

N.  fi.  This  Receipt  we  have  not  proved. 

Raspberry  Vinegar,  (No.  390.) 

The.best  way  to  make  this,  is  to  pour  three  pints  of  the  best 
white  wine  Yinegar  on  a  pint  and  a  half  of  fresh-gathered  Red 
Raspberries  in  a  stone  Jar,  or  China  bowl,  (neither  glazed 
earthen  vxire^  nor  any  metallic  vessel,  must  be  used  ;  )  the  next 
day  strain  the  liquor  over  a  like  quantity  of  fresh  Raspberries ; 
and  the  day  following  do  the  same.  Then  drain  off  the  liquor 
without  pressing,  and  pass  it  through  a  Jelly  Bag  (pref  iousfy 
wetted  with  plain  Vinegar)  into  a  stone  Jar,  with  a  pound  of 
pounded  lump  Sugar  to  each  pint.  When  the  Sugar  is  dis- 
solved, stir  it  up,  cover  down  the  Jar,  and  set  it  in  a  saucepan  of 
water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  an  hour,  taking  off  the  scum  ; 
add  to  each  pint  a  glass  of  Brandy,  and  bottle  it :  mixed  in 
aboQt  eight  parts  of  water,  it  is  a  very  refreshing  and  delightful 
Summer  drink.  An  excellent  cooling  beverage  to  assuage 
.  thirst  in  ardent  fevers,  colds,  and  inflammatory  complaints,  Sse, 
and  is  agreeable  to  most  palates. 
See  No.  479*. 
N.  B.  We  have  not  proved  this  Receipt. 

Syrup  of  Lemons,  (No.  Wl.) 

The  best  season  for  Leicons,  is  frdm  November  to  March. 
Put  a  pint  of  fresh  Lemon  juice  to  a  pound  and  three  quarters 
of  Lump  Sugar ;  dissolve  it  by  a  gentle  heat,  scum  it  till  the 
surface  is  quite  clear, έΑΦ add  an  ounce  of  thin  cut  Lemon  Peel ; 
let  them  sfmmer  (very  gently)  together  foi  a  few  minutes,  and 

'  I      ,     I         ,       ...    I     I     -I  .  I     έΨι   ,.,       .         έΨι  έΨι I.I  έΨιi^W┬╗┬τM┬╗1        I  ,1       I    ,      ,  έΨιέΨι 

t  A  Bain-Marie,   See  Note  to  No.  4S$, 

24 


f 


278  GRAVIES   AND   SAUCES. 

ruo  it  through  a  flannel.  When  cold,  bottle,  and  cork  it  doeely, 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Or, 
DissoWe  a  quarter  ofao  ounce  (avoirdupois)  of  CiTBic,ie. 
crystalized  Lemon -acid,  in  a  pint  of  Clarified  Syrup  (No.475,) 
flavour  it  with  the  Peel,  with  (No.  408,)  or  dissolve  the  Acid 
in  equal  parts  of  Simple  Syrup  (No.  475,)  and  Syrup  of  Lem* 
on  Peel,  made  as  (No.  393.) 

Uie  Justice* 8  Orange  Sifrup^for  Punch  (fr  Puddings,(So.  592*) 
Squeeze  the  Oranges,  and  strain  the  juice  from  the  pulp  iaio 

a  large  pot ;  boil  it  up  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  floe  Sugar 

in  each  pint  of  juice ;  skim  it  well,  let  it  stand  till  cold,  and  tbea 

bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well. 

06s. έΑΦ This  makes  a  fine  soft  mellow  flavour  to  Punch ; 

and,  added  to  melted  butter,  is  a  good  relish  to  Puddings. 

Ft*icgar/or  Salads.  (No.  395.) 

Take  of  Tarragon,  Savory,  Chives,  Eshallots,  three  ounces 
each, έΑΦ a  handful  of  the  tops  of  Mint  and  Balm,  all  dry  and 
pounded  ;  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  Bottle,  with  a  gillon  of 
best  Vinegar ;  cork  it  dose,  set  it  in  the  Sun,  and  in  a  fortnight, 
strain  off,  and  squeeze  the  herbs  ;  let  it  stand  a  day  to  settle, 
and  then  strain  it  through  a  filtering  Bag. έΑΦ From  ParMest- 
TiBR*s  Art  de  Faires  les  Vinaigres, 

Taragon  Vinegar.  (No.  396.) 

This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  Soups,  Salad  Sauce  (No. 
455,)  and  to  mix  mustard  (No.  370.)  Fill  a  wide-mouthed  bot- 
tle'with  fresh -gathered  Tarragon  leaves,  i.e.  between  Midsum- 
mer and  Michaelmas,  (which  should  be  gathered  on  a  dry  day, 
just  before  it  flowers,)  and  pick  the  leaves  off  the  stalks,  and 
dry  them  a  little  before  the  fire;  cover  them  with  the  best 
Vinegar,  let  them  steep  fourteen  days,  then  strain  through  a 
flannel  Jelly  Bag  till  it  is  fine,  then  pour  it  into  half-pint  bot- 
tles ;  cork  them  carefully  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

Obs. έΑΦ You  may  prepare  Elder-flowers  and  Herbs  in  the  same  man 
ner  ;  Eider  and  Tarragon  are  those  in  most  general  ase  in  this  coun' 
try. 

Our  neighbours,  the  Frencb,  prepare  Vinegars  flavoured  with  Cel6* 
l-y,  Oucambers,  Cap<iicums,  Garlick,  Eshallot,  Onion,  Capers,  CherFil| 
Cress-seed,  Burnet,  Truffles,  Seville  Orange  Peel,  Ginger,  &c. ;  in 
short,  thfy  impregnate  them  with  almost  e^ery  Herb,  Fruit,  Flowcrj 
┬τnd  Spice  separately,  and  in  innumerable  combinations. 


/ 
'  GRAVIES   A┬╗D   SAVCES*  279 

Basil  Vihegar  or  mne.  /  (No.  897.) 
Sweet  Basil  is  in  full  perfectioo  about  the  middle  of  Au- 
gust. Fill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  the  fredi  green 
leaveB  of  Basil,  (these  give  much  iiaer  and  more  flaToor 
ihaD  the  dried έΑΦ and  cover  them  with  Vinegar έΑΦ or  Wine, έΑΦ 
a.od  let  them  steep,  for  ten  days ;  if  you  wish  a  very  strong  ┬μs- 
sence,  strain  the  liquor,  put  in  some  fresh  leaves,  and  let  them 
steep  foorteen  days  more. 

Obs, έΑΦ This  is  a  very  agreeable  additidn  to  Sauces, έΑΦ Soups, 
and  to  the  mixture  usually  made  for  Salads,  see  (No.  37%)  and 
(No.  453.) 

It  is  a  secret  the  makers  of  Mock  Turtle  may  thank  us 
for  telling ;  a  tablespoonful  of  this,  put  in  when  the  Soup  is 
finished,  will  Impregnate  a  Tureen  of  soup,  with  the  Basil,  and 
Acid  flavours,  at  very  small  cost,  when  fresh  Basil  and  Lemons 
are  extravagantly  dear. 

The  flavour  of  the  other  Sweet,  and  Savoury  Herbs, έΑΦ 
Celery,  &e.  may  be  procured,  and  preserved  in  the  same  man- 
ner. See  (No.  409,  or  No.  417,)  by  infusing  them  in  wine έΑΦ 
or  vinegar. 

Cress  Vinegar,  (No.  397*.) 

Dry,  and  pound  half  an  ounce  of  Cress  Seed,  (such  as  is 
sown  in  the  garden  with  Mustard,)  pour  .upon  it┬τ  quart  of  ibe 
best  Vinegar,  let  it  steep  ten  days, shaking  it  up  every  day. 

06s. έΑΦ This  is  very  strongly  flavoured  with  Cress, έΑΦ and  for 
Salads,  and  Coid  Mf;ats,  &c,  is  a  great  favourite  with  many  ; έΑΦ 
the  Quart  of  Sauce  costs  only,  a  half-penny  more  than  ike  Via" 
egar.  * 

Celery  Vinegar  is  made.in  the  same  manner. 

The  Crystal  Vinegar  (No.  407*)  which  is,  we  believe  (he 
Pyroligneous  Acid,  is  the  best  for  receiving  flavours, έΑΦ having 
scarcely  any  of  its  own. 

Green  Mint  Vinegar, έΑΦ       (No.  398.) 

Is  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner,  and  with  the  same 
proportions,  as  in  (No.  397.) 

06s. έΑΦ In  ihe  early  Season  of  Housed-Lamb,  Qreen  Mint 
is  sometimes  not  to  be  got;  the  above  is  then  a  welcome  sub. 
stitute. 


280  GRAVIES    AKD  SAUCESt 

Burnet  or  Cucumber  Vinegar.     (No.  399.) 
This  18  made  id  precisely  tbesame  manner  as  directed  io  (No* 
397.)    The  flavour  of  Burnet  resembles  Cacumher  so  exacl\y, 
that  when  iafused  io  Vinegary  the   nicest  palate  would  pro- 
nounce it  to  be  Cucumber. 

06s.-*Tbis  is  a  very  farourita  rdish  with  Cold  Meat,  Sal- 
ads, &c. 

Burnet  is  in  best  season  from  Midsummef  to  Michaelmas. 

HerserodtsA  Vinegar.         (No.  399*.} 

Horseradish  is  in  highest  perfection  about  November. 

Pour  a  quart  of  best  Vinegar  on  three  ounces  of  scraped' 
Horseradish,  and  an  ounce  of  minced  Eshallot,  and  one  drachm 
of  Cayenne ;  let  it  stand  a  week,  and  you  will  have  an  excel- 
lent relish  for  Cold  Beef,  See,  Salads,  &c.  costing  scarcely 
any  thing. 

N.  B.  'A  portion  of  Black  Pepper  and  Mustard,  Celery  or 
Cress  Seed,  may  be  added  to  the  above, 

Ofct.-.Honeradisb  Powder  (No.  458^) 

Garlick  Vinegar.  (No.  400.) 

Garlick  is  ready  for  this  purpose  from  Midsummer  to  Mw 
cbaelmas. 

Peel  and  chop  two  ounces  of  Garlick,  poor  on  diem  a  quart 
of  wbit^wine  Vinegar,  atop  the  jar  close,  and  let  it  steep  ten 
days,  shaking  it  well  every  day  ;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquor 
into  small  bottles. 

ObSt-^Tbs.  Cook  must  be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  of 
this  : έΑΦ a  few  drops  of  it  will  give  a  pint  of  Oravy  a  suflBctent 
smack  of  the  Garlick ;  the  flavour  of  which,  when  slight,  and 
well  blended,  is  one  of  the  finest  we  have  ;-^when  used  in  ex- 
cess, it  is  the  most  offensive. 

The  best  way  to  use  Garlick,  is  to  send  up  some  of  this  Vin- 
egar in  a  Cruet|  and  let  the  company  flavour  their  own  sauce  as 

they  like. 
N.  B.   The  most  elegant  preparation  of  the  Onion  Tribe,  is  \ 

the  EsHALLOT  Wine,  (No.  402-) 

EihaM  Vinegar--  (No.  401.)  | 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  Cook  should  never  be 
without  one  of  these  useful  auxiliaries  ;  they  cost  scarcely  any  . 

thing,  but  the  little  trouble  of  makingf-^-and  will  save  a  great  | 


ORAVtES   A1?D  SAUCEg^  281 

^ea\  of  troi^ble  ia  flavouriog  Soups  and  Saucea  wiib  a  taste  of 

N.  B.  EshalloU  ar9  ia  bigb  perfectioo  duriag  July,  Aogusiy 
and  l^epteoiber. 

EsH ALLOT  Wine.  (No.4(┬╗.) 

Peel,  mince,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  three  ounces  of  Eehal- 
lots,  and  infuse  tbem  in  a  pint  of  Sherry  for  ten  days, έΑΦ then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor  on  three  ounces  more  Shallots,  and 
let  the  wine  stand  on  them  ten  days  longer. 

06s. έΑΦ This  is  rather  the  most  expensive,  but  ififinitely  iht 
most  elegant  preparation  of  Esh allot,  and  imparts  the  Ouioa 
flavour  to  Soups  and  Sauces,  for  Chops,  Steaks,  or  boiled 
Meats,  Hashes,  &c.  more  agreeably  than  any :  it  does  not 
leave  any  unpleasant  taste  in  the  mouth,  or  to  the  breath,  nor 
repeat  as  almost  all  the  other  preparations  of  Garlick,  Oniont, 
&c.  do. 

N.  B.  An  ounce  of  scraped  Horseradish,  may  be  added  to 
(be  above,  and  a  little  thin  cut  Lemon  Pee),  or  a  few  drops  of 
(No.  408.) 

Camp  Vinegar,  (No.  403.') 

Cayenne  Pepper,  one  drachm,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Soy,  two  tablespoonsful. 

Walnut  Catsup,  four  ditto. 

Six  Anchovies,  chopped. 

A  small  clove  of  Garlick,  minced  fine. 

Steep  all  for  a  month  in  a  pint  of  best  Vinegar,  frequently 
shaking  the  bottle  :  strain  through  a  tammis,  and  keep  it  in 
small  bottles,  corked  as  tightly  as  possible. 

Cayenne  Pepper,  (No.  404.) 

Mr,  Actum  bag  informed  the  Public,  f  see  his  book  on  AduUerationgf) 
that  from  some  ipeciroeps  that  came  direct  to  hini  from  India,  and 
others  obtained  from  respectable  Oil  Shops  in  London,  he  has  extract- 
ed Lead ! 

"  Foreign  Cayenne  Pepper  is  an  indiscriminate  mixture  of 
the  powder  of  the  dried  pods  of  many  species  of  Capsicums, έΑΦ 
especially  of  the  Bird  Pepper^  which  is  the  hottest  of  all.  As 
it  comes  to  us  from  the  West  Indies,  it  changes  the  infusion  of 


t ┬τ If  Le^M  yoQ  like,lmtdo  their  f  mell  dw-leek. 
Eat  OnyoDs,  and  joa  ihall  not  smell  the  Leeke ; 
If  yoa  of  Onyoot  woald  the  scent  ezpell, 
,      Eat  Oavlicke,  that  dMUdiows  Uie  Onyooa*  iiaelL** 


283  CTRAVISS   AND  SAUCES. 

TarnBoIe  to  a  beautiful  Green, έΑΦ probably  omng  to  the  Salt 
which  18  always  added  to  it,  and  the  Red  Oxid  aJT'Ltead,  ┬τi.tb 
which  it  is  said  to  be  adulterated.^-^DuirGAN^s  New  Eain' 
hurgh  Dispensatory.  ^ 

The  Indian  Cayenne  is  prepared  in  a  very  careless  manner^ 
and  often  looks  as  if  the  pods  had  lain  till  they  were  decayed, 
before  they  were  dried ; έΑΦ ^this  accounts  for  the  dirty  brofwn  ap-> 
pearance  it  commonly  has.  If  properly  dried  as  soon  as  gath- 
ered, it  will  be  of  a  clear  red  colour ;  to  give  it  the  oomplezioa 
of  that  made  with  good  fresh-gathered  Copstcicma  or  ChiUies^ 
some  AmattOj  or  other  vegetable  Red  colouring  matter,  is 
pounded  with  it ;  this,  Mr.  A.,  assures  us,  is  frequently  adalterat-^ 
ed  Mitb  Indian  Red,t.  e.  *'  Red  Lead  T^ 

When  Cayenne  is  pounded,  it  is  mixed  with  a  coostderabW 
portion  of  Salt,  to  prevent  its  flying  up  and  hurting  the  Eyes : 
this  might  be  avoided,  by  grinding  it  in  a  Mill,  which  may  ea- 
sily be  made  close  enough,  especially  if  it  be  passed  through  a 
second  time,  and  then  sifted  through  a  fine  drum  headed  sieve, 
to  produce  as  fine  a  powder  as  can  be  obtained  by  poundiog  ; 
however,  our  English  Chillies  may  be  pounded  in  a  deep  mor- 
tar without  any  danger. 

Capsicums  and  Chillies  are  ripe  and  red,  and  in  finest  condi- 
tion during  September  and  October ;  the  flavour  of  the  CkU- 
lies  is  very  superior  to  that  of  the  Capsicums,έΑΦ and  will  be 
good  in  proportion  as  they  are  dried  as  soon  as  possible,  taking 
care  they  are  not  bur-nt. 

Take  away  the  stalks,  and  put  the  pods  into  a  Cullender  ; 
set  it  before  the  Fire  ;  they  will  take  full  twelve  hours  to  dry ; 
then  put  them  into  a  mortar,  with  one-fourth  their  weight  of 
salt,  and  pound  them  and  rub  them  till  they  are  as  fine  as  possi- 
ble, and  put  them  into  a  well  stopped* bottle. 

N.  B.  We  advise  those  who  are  fond  of  Cayenne,  not  to 
think  it  too  much  trouble  to  make  it  of  English  Chillies, έΑΦ 
there  is  no  other  way  of  being  sure  it  is  genuine, έΑΦ and  they 
will  obtain  a  Pepper  of  much  finer  flavour,  without  half  the 
beat  of  the  Foreign. 

A  hundred  large  Chillies,  costing  only  Two  Shillings,  will 
produce  you  about  two  ounces  of  Cayenne, έΑΦ so  it  is  as  cheap 
as  the  commonest  Cayenne. 


GRAVIES    AND  SAUCES.  383 

Emence  of  Cayenne.  (No.  406.) 

Pat  half  an  ounce  of  Cayenne  Pepper  (No.  404,)  into  half 
a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Wine  ;  let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight,  and 
then  pour  off  the  clear  h'quor. 

This  is  nearly  equal  to  fresh  Chilli  juice, 
06s. έΑΦ It  is  extremely  convenient  for  the  extempore  season- 
ing, and  finishing  of  Soup,  Sauces,  &;c.  its  flavour  being  in" 
stanUy,  and  equally  diffused.  Cayenne  Pepper  varies  so  much 
in  strength,  that  it  is  impossible  to  season  Soup  any  other  way 
to  the  precise  point  o^piquance. 

Chilli  Vinegar.  (No.  405*.) 

This  is  commonly  made  with  the  Foreign  Bird  Pepper^ έΑΦ 
but  you  will  obtain  a  much  finer  flavour  from  infusing  fifty 
fresh  Red  English  Chillies  (cut  in  half,  or  pounded,)  in  a  pint 
of  the  best  Vinegar  for  a  fortnight,  or  a  quarter  ounce  of  Cay- 
enne Pepper,  (No.  404.) 

O^. έΑΦ Many  people  cannot  eat  Fish  without  the  addition  of 
an  Acid,  and  Cayenne  Pepper  ^  to  such  palates,  this  will  be 
an  agreeable  relish. 

Chilli^  or  Cayenne  Wine.        (No.  405**.) 

Pound  and  steep  fifty  fresh  Red  Chillies,  or  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  Cayenne  Pepper,  in  half  a  pint  of  Brandy,  White 
Wine,  or  Claret,  for  fourteen  days. 

06s. έΑΦ This  is  a  **  Bonne  Bouche^^  for  the  4overs  of  Cay- 
enne, of  which  it  takes  up  a  larger  proportion  of  its  flavour, 
than  of  its  fire  ;  which  being  instantly  diffused,  it  is  a  very  use- 
ful auxiliary  to  warm  and  finish  Soups  and  Sauces,  &;c. 

Essence  of  Lemon  Peel.  (No.  407.) 

Wiasb  and  brush  clean  the  Lemons  ; έΑΦ let  them  gel  perfectly 
dry  ; έΑΦ take  a  lump  of  Loaf  Sugar,  and  rub  them  till  all  the 
yellow  rind  is  taken  up  by  the  sugar ; έΑΦ scrape  off  the  surface  of 
the  sugar  into  a  preserving  pot,  and  )>ress  it  hard  down  ;  cover 
it  very  close,  and  it  will  keep  for  some  time. 

In  the  same  way  you  may  get  the  essence  of  Seville  Orange 
Peel. 

Obs. έΑΦ This  method  of  procuring,  and  preserving  the  flavour 
of  Lemon  Peel,  by  making  an  Oleo'saccharum,  is  far  superior 
to  the  common  practice  of  paring  off  the  rind,  or  grating  it,  and 
pounding,  or  mixing  that  with  sugar ; έΑΦ by  this  process,  you  ob- 


2B4  ORAVISS   AND  SAUCES. 

tain  tbe  whole  of  the  fine,  frag;raot,   eaeemial  Oil,  ia  which  is 
conUioed  the  fla?Qur. 

Artificial  Lemon  Juice,         (No.  407^.) 

If  you  add  a  drachm  of  Lump  Sugar  pounded,  and  six  drops 
of  (No.  403,)  to  three  ounces  of  Crystal  Vinegar^  (which  is 
the  name  given  to  the  Pyroligneous  Vinegar,)  you  will  have  an 
excellent  substitute  for  Lemon  Juice έΑΦ for  Fish  Sauces  aad 
Soups,  and  many  other  Culinary  purposes.  The  flavour  of  the 
Lemoa  may  also  be  communicated  to  the  Vinegar έΑΦ hy  iiifua* 
log  some  Lemon  Peel  in  it. 

N.  B.  The  Pyroligneous  Vinegar  is  perfectly  free  from  all 
flavour,  save  that  of  the  pure  Acid, έΑΦ therefore  it  is  a  ^ery  val- 
uable menstruum  for  receiving  impregnations  from  various  fla┬τ 
vouriog  materials. 

The  Pt&olignbous  Acid  seems  likely  to  produce  quite  a 
revolution  in  the  pro<*es8  of  curing  Hams,  Herrings,  &c.  &c.έΑΦ 
See  Tilloch^s  Philosophical  Magazine j  1821. 

^ttin<- Essence  of  Lemon  Peel.         (No.  40S.)    * 

Best  oil  of  Lemon,  one  drachm. 

Strongest  rectified  spirit,  two  ounces, 
introduced  by  degrees,  till  the  spirit  kills,  and  complete\y  mixes 
with  the  oil.    Thisi  elegant  preparation  possesses  all  the  delight- 
ful fragrance  and  flavour  of  thefresbest  Lemon  Peel. 

06s. έΑΦ A  fevr  drops  on  the  Sugar  you  make  Punch  with, 
will  instantly  impregnate  it  with  as  much  flavour  as  the  trouble- 
some and  tedious  method  of  grating  the  rind,  or  rubbing  the 
Sugar  on  it. 

It  will  be  found  a  superlative  substitute  for  freak  Lemon 
PeeZ,  for  every  purpose  that  it  is  used  for ;  Blanc .  Mange, έΑΦ 
Jellies, έΑΦ Custards, έΑΦ Ice, έΑΦ Negus, έΑΦ -Lemonade, έΑΦ ^and  Pk'cs, 
Puddings, έΑΦ Stuffings, έΑΦ Soups, έΑΦ Sauces,έΑΦ -Ragouts,  &c. 

See  also  (No.  393.) 

Tincture  of  Lemon  Peel         (No.  408*.) 

A  very  easy,  and  economical  way  of  obtaining,  and  preserv- 
ing the  flavour  of  Lemon  Peel,  is  to  fill  a  wide*mouthed  pint 
bottle  half  full  of  Brandy,  Rum,  or  proof  spirit ;  and  wbea 
yon  usti  a  Lemon,  pare  the  rind  off  very  thin,  and  put  it  into 
the  Brandy,  ^c; έΑΦ in  a  fortnight,  it  will  impregnate  the  spirit 
with  the  flavour  very  strongly. 


CAAVIBS   AND   SAUCEft.  9S6 

Essence  of  Celery,  (No.  409.) 

Brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  a  quarter  of  a  pint. 

Celery  seed  bruised,  baif  an  ounce,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight. 

Qba,'^A  few  drops  vsiU  immediaUly  flavour  a  pint  of  BrotA, 
and  are  an  excellent  addition  to  Pease,  and  other  Soups  ;  aod 
the  salad  mixture  of  Oil,  Vinegar,  &c.  (No.  393.) 

N.  B.  To  make  Celery  Sauce,  see  (No.  289.) 

Essence  of  Ginger,  (No.  41 1.) 

Three  ounces  of  fresh  gj-atedi  Ginger,  and  an  ounce  of  thin 
cut  Lemon  Peel,  into  a  quart  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit, 
(apothecary's  measure ;)  let  it  stand  for  ten  days,  shaking  it  up 
each  day. 

Obs, έΑΦ The  pioper  title  for  this  would  be  **  Tincture  of 
Ginger  /'  however,  as  it  has  obtained  the  name  of  ^'  Essenct^ 
so  let  it  be  called. 

N.  B.  If  Ginger  is  taken  to  produce  aa  immediate  effect, έΑΦ 
to  warm  the  Stomach,  or  dispel  flatulence,-έΑΦ this  is  the  best 
preparation. 

Essence  of  Allspice,  (No.  419.) 

Oil  of  Pimento^  a  drachm,  apothecary*s  measure. 

Strong  Spirit  of  Wine,  two  ounces, 
mixed  by  d^ees :  a  few  drops  will  give  the  flavour  of  Allspice 
to  a  pint  of  Gravy, έΑΦ or  Mulled  Wine, έΑΦ or  to  make  a  Bishop. 

TiwsiureX  of  Allspice.  (No.  41 3.) 

Of  Allspice  bruised,  three  ounces,  apothecary's  weight. 

Brandy,  a  quart. 

I^t  it  steep  a  fortnight,  occasionally  shaking  it  up  ;  then 
pour  off  the  dear  liquor :  it  is  a  most  grateful  addition.in  all 
cases  where  Allspice  is  used,  for  making  a  Bi┬╗hop,  or  to  Mull- 
ed Wine  Extempore,  or  in  Gravies,  &c.  or  to  flavour  and  pre* 
serve  Potted  Meats,  (No.  503.) 

Tincture  of  Nutmeg,  (No.  413*.) 

Is  made  with  the  same  proportions  of  Nutmeg  and  Brandy 
as  ordered  for  Allspice.     See  06s.  to  (No.  415.) 

I  έΑλ       '  - 1  - .  -  - , ,.  -  έΑΦ  ,  έΑΦ ,.  ,1  -,.^ 

t  The  fraftant  aroma  of  Ginger  it  lo  extremely  Tolatile,  tlult  it  evaporaies  almost 
at  soon  as  It  n  pnoderedi^and  the  fine  Lemon-peel  ^eutέΑΦ Ales  olf  preyifntly. 

%  Tinetyres  aro  mach  too$  QaTOVied  thfm  Enfncei. 


286  GRAVIES    AND   SAVCHS^ 

Essence  of  Clove  and  Mace,         (No.  414} 

Strongest  Spirit  of  Wioe,  tvro  ouoceg,  apotbecary^s  measure. 
Oil  of  Nutmeg,  or  Clore,  or  Mace,  a  dracbiii, .  apotbecafy*s 
measure. 

Tincture  of  Clove.  (No.  41-5.) 

Cloves  bruised,  three  ounces,  apothecary's  weighs 
Brandy,  one  quart. 

Let  it  steep  ten  days ;  strain  it  through  a  flanoeT  sieve. 
06s.έΑΦ -Excellent  to  flavour  "  Bishop*'  or  Mulled  Wine. 

Essence  of  Cinnamon.         (No.  416.} 

Strongest  rectified  Spirit  of  Wine,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  Cinnamon,  one  drachm,  apothecary's  measure. 

Tincture  of  Cinnamon.  (No.  41 6*.) 

This  exhilarating  Cordial  is  made  by  pouring  a  bottle  of 
genuine  Cogniac  (No.  471,)  on  three  ounces  of  bruised  Cinna* 

roon έΑΦ (Cassia  will  not  do.) 

This  restorative  was  more  in  vogae  formerly,  than  it  is  now  ; έΑΦ a 
teaspoonful  of  it,  and  a  lump  of  Sugar,  in  a  glass  of  good  Sherry  or 
Madeira,  with  the  yolk  of  an  Egg  beat  up  in  it,^ έΑΦ ^was. called  **  Balsa- 
mum  ┬╗┬τ<┬τ." 

<<  Cur  m^friaiur  homo,  qrui  tumit  de  Cinnamomo  f έΑΦ Cinnamon  is 
verie  comfortable  to  tbe  Stomacke,  and  the  principal]  partes  of  ^ 
bodie." 

<<  Vtniriculum^JuuryLienem  Cereb^rum,nervosque  juval  et  roborat." 
έΑΦ <<  I  reckon  it  a  great  treasure  for  a  student  to  have  by  him,  in  his 
closet,  to  take  now  and  then  a  spoonful." έΑΦ Coooan's  Haven  of  Healths 

Obs. έΑΦ Two  teaspoonsfut  in  a  wine-glass  of  water έΑΦ are  a 
present  and  pleasant  remedy  in  Nervous  Languors έΑΦ and  in  re- 
laxations of  the  Bowels  ;^n  the  latter  case,  five  drops  of  Lac- 
danum  may  be  added  to  each  dose. 

Essence  of  Marjoram.  (No.  417.) 

Strongest  rectified  Spirit,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  Origanum,  one  drachm,  apothecary *s  measure. 

Vegetable  Essences.         (No.  417*.) 

The  flavour  of  the  various  sweet  and  savoury  Herbs  may 
be  obtained,  by  combining  tht^ir  Essential  Oils  ivith  Rectified 
Spirit  of  Wine,  in  the  proportion  of  one  drachm  of  the  former 
to  two  ounces  of  the  latter,  by  picking  the  leaves,  and  laying 
them  for  a  couple  of  hours  jn  a  warm  place  to  dry,  and  then 
filling  a  large  mouthed  bottle  with  them,  %Dd  pouring  on  tbem 


OltAVIES   AND  SAUQCa.  387 

'Wioe,  Brandy,  Proof  Spirit,  or  Vinegar,  and  letting  tb┬τm  ateep 
for  fourteen  days.   . 

Soup  Herbi^  Spirit.  (No.  430.) 

Of  Lemon  Thyme, 

Winter  Savory, 

Sweet  Marjoram, 

Sweet  Basil, έΑΦ half  an  ounce  of  each. 

Lemon  Peel  grated ┬╗ two  drachms. 

Esballota,  the  same. 

Celery  Seed,  a  drachm,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Prepare  them  as  directed  in  (No.  461)  ;  and  infuse  them  in 
a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  for  ten  days  ;  they  may  alw 
he  infiued  in  Wine^  or  Vinegar^  but  neither  extract  the  fla* 
vour  of  the  ingredients  half  so  well  as  the  spirit. 

Spirit  of  Savoury  Spice.         (No.  421.) 

Black  Pepper,  an  ounce, έΑΦ Allspice,  half  an  ounce,  pounded 
fine. 

Nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Infuse  in  a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  for  ten  days  :έΑΦ > 
Oft,  put  the  ingredients  enumerated  in  (No.  467,)  in  a  quart  of 
Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  for  the  like  time. 

Soup'herhy  and  Savoury  Spice  Spirit     (No.  4^%} 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  Soup*berb  spirit  with  a  quarter  pint  of 
spirit  of  Savoury  spice. 

06s. έΑΦ These  prepdrationa  are  tahiable  auxiliaries  to  imme* 
tliaiely  heighten  the  flavour,  and  finish  Snups,  Sauces^  Ragouts, 
Sfc. έΑΦ wUlsave  much  time  and  trouble  to  ihe  Cook,  and  keep  for 
twenty  years. 

lUU^for  Chop^,  SfC.  (No.  423  ) 

Pound  Bae  an  ounce  of  Black  Pepper,  and  haif  an  ounce  of 
Allspice,  with  an  ounce  of  Salt,  and  half  an  ounce  of  Scraped 
Horseradish,  and  the  same  of  ┬μ)dhallots  peeled  and  quartered  ; 
put  these  ingredients  into  a  pint  of  Mushroom  Calsup,  or  WaU 
nut  Pickle,  and  let  them  steep  for  a  fortnightyand  then  strain  it. 

Obs,-^A  teaspoonful  or  two  of  this  is  generally  an  accepta* 
ble  addition,  mixed  with  the  Gtavy  usually  sent  up  for  Chops, 
and  Steaks;  see  (No.  356,)  or  added  to  thick  melted  butter. 


t  For  the  season,  &c*  ^heia^ese  H┬τi1m,  be.  come  io  perfectioD,and  1m┬╗w  to  drf 
4lieBi,iee/No.4ei.; 


Fis&  Stmc  CNo.  425.) 

Tvro  wiiiagla8868  of  Port,  and  tw6  of  Walaat  pickk;  four 
of  Mothroom  catsup ;  balf  a  dozen  Anchovies  pounded,  the 
like  number  of  Eshallots  sliced  and  poanded ;  a  tableapoonfd 
of  Soy,  and  half  a  drachm  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  let  them  um- 
roer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  strain  it,  and  when  cold,  put  it  into 
bottltti;  well  corked  and  sealed  oter,  it  will  keep  for  a  coiad- 
erable  time. 

Obs. έΑΦ This  is  commonly  called  QuiiCt  Smicif  and  was  gif- 
en  to  me  by  a  rery  sagacious  Saucemaker. 

Keeping  MvMard.  (No.  42.7^ 

Dissolve  three  ounces  of  Salt,  in  a  quart  of  boiling  wmler 
and  pour  it  hoc  upon  two  ounces  of  scraped  fibrsecadi^ ; 
closely  cover  down  the  jar,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  houn : 
έΑΦstrain  and  mix  it  by  degrees  with  the  best  Durham  flour  of 
mustard,  beat  well  together  till  quite  sniooth  and  of  the  proper 
thickness  ;  put  into  a  wide  mouthed  bottle,  and  stop  it  closely. 
See  also  (Nos.  369  and  370.) 

SAUCE  SUPERLATIVE.+    (Na  429.) 

Claret,  or  Port  wine,  and  Mushroom  Catsup,  see  (No.  439) 
a  pint  of  each. 

Half  a  pint  of  Walnut  or  other  Pickle  liquor. 

Pounded  Anchovies,  four  ounces. 

Fresh  Lemon-peel  pared  very  thiriy  an  ounce. 

Peeled  and  sliced  Eshallots,  the  same. 

Scraped  Horseradish,  ditto. 

Allspice  and 

Black  Pepper  powdered,  half  an  ounce  each. 

Cayenne,  one  drachm,  or  Curry  powder,  three  drachms. 

Celery-seed  bruised,  a  drachm.     All  avoirdupois  weights 
Put  these  into  a  wide  mouth  bottle,  stop  it  close,  shake  it  up 
every  day  for  a  fortnight,   and  strain  it,  when  some  think  it 
improved   by  the  addition  of  a  quarter  pint  Soy,  or  thick 
Browning,   see  (No.  322,)  and  you  will  have  a  **  delicious 

DOUBLE  RELISH." 

*^*  This  composition^  is  one  of  the    "  chef  d'ceuvres  of 
many  experiments  I  liave  made,  for  the  purpose  of  enabling 

t  We  hope  this  title  will  not  oifend  tho┬τe  who  may  quote  againit  it  ths  old  Adage 
that  *'  Oood  Appetite  is  the  best  Sauce.^-^AIIowing;  this  to  be  KCn^ndly  true,  fwbteh 
is  a  more  candid  confession  than  could  be  expected  ftoni  it  CookO  we  dltre  my,  ibe 

majority  of  our  readers  will  vote  with  us,  that  there  are  manyKood  thiaga  (FiA ' 

eially)  that  wonid  be  rather  insipid,-- without  a  little  Sauce  ofanotlier  k^nd. 


eRAVtBS  Aim  S&1TCES.  389 

the  g^od  Hmiurwii9e8,of  Great  BriUdn  1m  prgpare  (heir  own 
Saiwes :  il-w  equally  a^eeable  with  fish,  game^  ^mdlry,  or  ra- 
gouts, Sfc,  and  as  a  fair  lady  may  make  it  heridf,  its  rdisk 
vnU  he  not  a  Utile  augmenUa^-^by  the  certainty  that  aUthetn' 
redients  are  good  and  ivholesome. 

Ob^.-^-^UadoT  an  ityfiafty  of  crreumstaDces,  a  Cook  may  be 
in  want  of  the  sabdtances  necessary  to  make  Sance ;  the  above 
competition  of  the  seventl  articles  from  ^farch  the  various  gra- 
vies derrve  their  ftavoar,  will  be  found  a  very  admirabfe  extem- 
poraneous substitute.  By  mixing  a  large  tablespoonful  with  a 
Quarter  pint  of  thickened  melted  butter,  broth,  or  (No.  ^5%) 
ve  minutes  will  finish  a  boat  of  very  relishing  sauce,  nearly 
equal  to  drawn-gravy,  and  as  likely  to  put  your  Lingual  nerves 
into  good  humour  as  any  thing  I  know. 

To  make  a  boat  of  Sauce  for  Poultry,  &c.  put  a  piece  of 
butter  about  as  big  as  an  egg,  into  a  stewpan,  set  it  on  the  fire  ; 
Whea  it  is  melted,  put  to  it  a  tabiespoonfdl  of  flour ;  stir  it 
thoroughly  together,  and  add  to  it  two  tablespoonsful  of  Sauce, 
and  by  degrees,  about  half  a  pint  of  broth  or  boiling  water,  let 
it  simmer  gentty  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  skim  it  and 
fitrain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready. 

QUINT-ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVY.   (No.  433.) 

The  goodness  of  this  preparation  depends  almost  entirely  on 
having  fine  mellow  Fish,  that  have  been  in  pickle  long  enough 
(i┬╗.e,  about  twelve  months)  to  dissolve  easily, έΑΦ yet  are  not  at 
all  rustv. 

Choose  those  that  ^re  in  the  state  they  come  over  in,  not 
such  as  have  been  put  into  fresh  pickle,  mixed  with  Red 
Paint,-!-  which  some  add  to  improve  the  complexion  of  the  Fish, 
έΑΦ it  has  been  said,  that  others  have  a  trick  of  putting  Ancho- 
vy liquor  on  pickled  Sprats : J  you  will  easily  discover  this  by 
washing  one  of  them,  and  tasting  the   flesh  of  it,   which,  in 


t  "  Several  8fl┬τiplέΓυ8  wWeh  we  exumtned  of  this  Fish  Sauce,  hare 
been  found  contaminated  with  Lead." έΑΦSee  Accvu  on  aduUtrations, 

t  They  may  do  very  well  for  common  .fMlates  ;  but  to  imitate  the 
fine  flavour  of  the  Gorgonafish,  so  as  to  impose  upon  a  well  educa- 
ted Gourmand,  still  remains  in  the  catalogue  of  the  Sauce  maker's 
desiderata. 

25 


290  GKAVIES   AND   SAUCES* 

tbe  fine  Aocbovy,  is  mellow,  red,  and  high  -flaroored,  and  the 
booe  moist  and  oily.  Make  only  as  much  as  will  sooa  be 
used,  the  fresher  it  is  tbe  better. 

Pour  leo  or  tweWe  AocfaeWes  into  a  mortar,  and  poand  tbeni 
to  a  pulp  ; έΑΦ put  this  ioto  a  very  clean  iron  or  silver,  or  very 
well  tinned  saucepan,  then  put  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  spring 
water  into  the  mortar,  shake  it  round,  and  pour  it  to  tbe  pouod- 
ed  Anchovies,  set  them  by  tbe  side  of  a  slow  fire,  very  fire- 
quently  stirring  them  together,  till  they  are  melted,  which  they 
will  be  in  the  course  of  five  minutes. έΑΦ Now  stir  in  a  quarleror 
a  drachm  of  good  Cayenne  pepper  (No.  404,)  and  Jet  it  remain 
by  tbe  aide  of  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then,  while  it 
is  warm,  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  with  the  bac^  of  a  wood- 
en spoon. f 

A  roll  of  thin  Lemon-peel  infused  with  tbe  Aocbovy, 
imparts  a  fine  fresh,  delicate  aromatic  flavour,  which  ia  very 
grateful ;  this  is  only  recommended  when  you  make  Sauce 
for  immediate  use, έΑΦ it  will  keep  much  better  without ;  if  you 
wish  to  acidulate  it,  instead  of  water  make  it  with  artificial 
Lemon  juice  (No.  407*,)  or  add  a  little  of  Cozwelfs  coocrete 
acid  to  it. 

06s. έΑΦ The  above  is  the  proper  way,  to  perfecdy  dissolve 
Anchovy,  j:  and  incorporate  it  with  the  water ;  which,  if  com- 
plettfiy  saturated,  will  continue  suspended. 

To  prevent  the  separation  of  Essence  of  uAncho!9\f^  and  give 
it  thehppearance  ot  being  fully  saturated  with  Fish, έΑΦ various 
other  expedients  have  been  tried,  such  as  dissolving  the  fish  io 
thill  Water  Gruel,  or  Barley  Water,  or  thickening  it  with  Ma^ 
cilat^e,  Fiour,  &c. έΑΦ when  any  of  these  things  are  added,  it 
does  not  keep  half  so  well  as  it  does  without  them,  and  to  pre- 
serve it  they  overload  it  with  Cayenne  Pepper. 

Mem.  You  can-not  make  Essence  of  Anchovy  half  so  cheap 
as  you  can  buy  it. έΑΦ Thirty  prime  Fish,  weighing  a  pound  and 
a  quarter,  and  costing  4s.  6d,  and  two  tablespoonsfull  of  water 
made  me  only  Half  a  Pint  of  Essence, έΑΦ you  may  commonly 


t  The  Economist  may  take  tbe  thick  remains  that  won*t  pass 
through  the  sieve,  and  pound  it  with  iome  flour,  and  make  Ahchovt 
Fastk,  or  Powder.     See  (Nos.  434  and  436.) 

^  Epicure  Qum  used  to  say,  "  Of  all  the  Banns  of  Marriag^e  I  ever 
hoiird,  none  gave  me  half  such  pleasure  as  the  union  of  delicate  AifV- 
tuovv  with  good  john-dorf." 


GRAVIES   AND   SAVCES.  391 

/ 

k 

/buy  that  qoratity  ready  made  for  &.  and  webave  seen  an  Ad- 
έΨ╝ertiseineDt  offering  it  for  sale  so  low  as  3┬τ.  6d.  pfr  QwtrU 

It  mtist  be  kepi  very  dosely  sUpped^ έΑΦ token  you  tap  a  baUlc 
.  of  Sauce^  throw  away  the  old  petjoraied  Cork^  and  put  in  a 
new  taper  veloei  cork  ; έΑΦ if  the  air  gets  into  ?7,  the  Ifish  take% 
the  rustff  and  U  is  spoiled  direc^y. 

Essence  of  Anchovy  is  sometimes  coloured  %  with  bole  Ar- 
mooiaCy  Venice  red,  &c. ;  but  all  these  additiont  deteriorate 
the  flavour  of  the  sauce,  and  the  Palate  and  Stomach  suffer  for 
the  gratification  of  the  Eye,  which,  in  Culinary  concerns,  will 
never  be  indulged  by  the  sagacious  Gourmand^  at  the  expense 
of  these  two  primum  mobUes  of  his  pursuits. 

*^*  Essence  of  Anchovy  is  sometimes  made  with  Sherry  or 
Madeira  wine,  or  good  Jntuhroom  catsup  (  No.  439,^  instead 
of  water.  If  you  like  the  addflavoury  add  a  litUe  citric  acidf 
or  dissolve  them  in  good  Vinegar. 

N.  B.  This  is  infinitely  the  most  convenient  way  of  using 
Anchovy,  as  each  guest  may  mix  sauce  for  himself,  and  make 
It  strong  or  weak,  according  to  his  own  taste. 

It  is  also  much  more  economical,  as  plain  melted  Butter  (No. 
d56)  serves  for  other  purposes  at  table. 

Anchovy  Paste,  er  fe  Btfttrrc  (T^nc/iois.     (No.  434.) 

Pound  them  in  a  mortar,  then  rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve  ; 
pot  it ;  cover  it  with  clarified  butter,and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

N.  B.  If  you  have  Essence  of  Anchovy^  you  may  make  An^ 
chovy  Paste  Extempore^  by  rubbing  the  Essence  \yith  as  much 
Flour  as  will  make  a  paste.  Mem,  This  is  merely  mentioned 
as  the  means  of  making  it  immediately,  it  will  not  keep. 

06s. έΑΦ This  is  sometimes  made  stiffer  and  hotter  by  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  Flour  of  Mustard, έΑΦ a  pickled  Walnut, έΑΦ Spice 
(No.  460,) έΑΦ Curry  powder  (No.455,) έΑΦ or  Cayenne,  and  then 
becomes  a  rival  to  "  la  veritable  Sauce  d^Enfer  "  No.  538, έΑΦ 
or  FAu  a  la  Diable  for  Deviling  Biscuits  (No.  674,)έΑΦ Grills 
^No.538,)  &c.    It  is  an  excellent  garnish  for  Fish,  put  in  pats 

t  "  Rust  in  Anchories,  if  I'm  not  mistaken, 
Is  as  bad  as  Rust  in  Steel,  er  Rast  in  Bacon." 

X  If  you  arc  not  contented  with  the  natural  colour,  break  some  Lob- 
ier'a  Eggs  into  it,  and  you  will  not  only  heighten  the  Complexion  of 
your  Sauce,  but  improve  its  Flavour.  This  is  the  only  Rouge  wc  caw 
recommend.    See  note  to  (PCo.  284.) 


:292  GRAVIES   AND  SAUC┬μS┬τ 

round  the  edga  of  tlie  dish,  or  will  fkiako  Anchovy  Toast  (No. 
d73,)έΑΦ or  Devil  a  Biscuit  (N6.  574,)  Sec  ia  fai^b  style. 

Anchovy  Powder.  (No.  436.)  ' 

Pound  the  fish  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
make  them  into  a  pa^te  with  dried  flour,  roll  it  in  thin  cakes^ 
and  dry  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  slow  fire  ;  pounded  to 
a  fine  powder,  and  put  into  a  well-stopped  bottle,  it  will  keep 
for  years  ;  it  is  a  very  savoury  relish  sprinkled  on  bread  and 
butter  for  a  sandwich,  &c.     See  Oyster  powder  (^o.  2S0.) 

Obs. έΑΦ To  this  may  be  added  a  snail  portion  of  Cayeane 
Pepper,  grated  Lemon  Peel,  and  Citric  Acid. 

Walnut  Catsup.  (No.  438.) 

Take  six  half  sieves  of  green  walnut  abells,  put  tbem  into  a 
tub,  mix  them  up  well  with  common  salt,  from  two  to  three 
pounds,  let  them  stand  for  six  days,  frequently  beating  and 
masliing  them  ;  by  this  time  the  shells  become  soft  and  polpy┬╗ 
then  by  banking  it  up  on  one  side  of  the  tub^  and  at  the  same 
time  by  raising  the  tub  on  that  side,  the  liquor  will  drain  clear 
off  to  the  other ;  then  take  that  liquor  out }  the  mashing  and 
banking  up  may  be  repeated  as  often  as  liquor  is  found.  Tfa┬τ 
quantity  will  be  about  six  quarts.  When  done,  let  it  be  slai┬τ- 
mered  m  an  iron  boiler  as  long  as  any  scum  arises  ;  then  bruise 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  albpice, 
two  ounces  of  long  pepper,  two  ounces  of  cloves,  with  the  above 
ingredients,  let  it  slowly  boil  for  half  an  hour :  when  bottled  let 
an  equal  quantity  of  the  spice  go  into  each  bottle ;  when  cork* 
ed,  let  the  battles  be  filled  quite  up ;  cork  them  tight,  seal  them 
over,  and  put  into  a  cool  and  dry  place  for  one  year  before  it  is 
used. 

N.  B.  For  the  above  we  are  indebled  to  a  respectable  OH- 
man,  who  has  many  years  proved  the  Receipt. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP.  (No.  439.) 

If  you  love  Good  Catsup,  gentle  Reader,  make  it  yourseiff, 
after  the  following  directions,  and  you  will  have  a  DeUcious 
Relish  for  Made  dishes.  Ragouts,  Soups,  Sauces  or  Hashes. 

Mushroom  gravy,  approaches  the  name  and  flavour  of  Meat 
gravy,  more  than  any  vegetable  juice  ;  and  is  the  superlative 

έΨι  έΨιέΨι  ...  .      έΨι  ,  .  έΨι  ..M  έΨι  I       .  '  έΨι  έΨι  ' 

t  **  The  Muihrooma  employed  for  preparing  reidf  made  Catfup*  aie  genemUT 
those ^wbich  are  in  a  putrefactive  state.  In  a  few  days  after  those Tun^hmve  been 
gatb^ed,  they  become  (he  habitation  of  myriads  of  insects* 


W'W^- 


έΑλl^w  ""^    ┬τ┬╗ 


^    lUgQgpi    ^m    itjgQgtfi    r 


┬τ i^  έΑλ 


cond: 
ise  be* 


^04  GRAVIfeS   AND  BAVCU. 

day,  tb┬τQ  pour  it  off  as  geotly  as  possible,  (so  as  not  to  distar^ 
the  settliD^d  at  the  bottono  of  the  jug,)  through  a  tanunls,  or 
thick  flaaoel  bag,  tiU  it  is  perfectly  clear  j  add  a  tea^poooful  of 
good  Brand y  to  each  pint  of  Catsup,  and  let  it  ^aud  as  before ;. 
έΑΦ a  fresh  sedimeut  will  be  deposited,  from  which  the  Cataop  is 
to  be  quietly  poured  off,  and  bottled  in  pints  or  half  pints, 
(which  have  been  washed  with  Brandy  or  spirit) ;  it  is  b┬τ9t  to 
keep  it  in  such  quantities  as  are  soon  used. 

Take  especial  care  that  it  ia  clpaely  corked,  and  sealed  down, 
or  dipped  in  Bottle  Cement. 

If  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  p{ace,  it  may  be  preserved  (or  a  Um^ 
time ;  but  if  it  is  badly  corked,,  and  kept  in  a  damp  place,  \v 
will  sooo  spoil. 

Examine  it  from  time  to  time,  by  placing  a  strong  Ugbt  be* 
bind  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  and  if  any  peUicle  appears  about  ity 
boil  it  op  again  with  a  few  pepper  corns. 

We  have  ordered  no  more  Spice,  &e.  than  is  absolutely  ne- 
cessary to  feed  the  Catsup,  and  keep  it  from  fermenting.  Bran- 
dy is  an  excellent  preservative  to  all  preparations  of  this  sort,. 
Pickles,  &c.  &c. 

The  compound,  coromooly  called  Catsup,  is  generally  an  \n* 
judicious  combination  of  so  many  different  tastes,  that  the  sa- 
vour of  the  Mushroom  is  overpowered  by  a  farrago  of  Garlick, 
Shallot,  Anchovy,  Mustard,  Horseradish,  Lemon-peel,  Beer, 
Wine,  Spice,  &c. 

Obs, έΑΦ A  tablespoonful  of  Dooblb  Catsup  will  impregnate 
half  a  pint  of  Sauce  with  the  full  flavour  of  Mushroom, io  much 
greater  perfection  than  either  pickled,  or  powder  of  ouiabiooms. 

Quintessence  of  M-usiiRooMe.         (No.  440.) 

This  delicate  Relish,  is  made  by  sprinkling  a  little  salt  over 
either  flap  or  button  Mushrooms; έΑΦ three  hours  after,  roash 
tliem, έΑΦ next  day,  strain  off  the  liquor  that  will  flow  from  them, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  to  half. 

It  will  not  keep  long,  but  is  preferable  to  any  of  the  Catsups, 
which,  in  order  to  preserve  them,  must  have  Spice,  &c.  which 
overpowers  the  flavour  of  the  Mushrooms. 

Jn  Artificial  Mushroom  Bed  udll  mppl}/  this  all  the  year 
round.     See  Appen.  I. 

To  make  Sauce  w  iti*  this,  see  (No.  307.) 


.    ORAYIES   AN0  SAUCES.  295 

(^9Ur  CtUsup.  (No.  441.) 

Take  fiae  fresk  Milton  oysteri ;  wash  tbem  in  their  own  li- 
quor, skina  it,  pouad  them  io  a  marble  raortar,  to  a  piot  of  Oys- 
ters add  a  pint  of  Sherry,  boil  them  up,  and  add  an  ounce  of 
salt,  two  drachms  of  pounded  mace,  and  one  of  Cayenne, έΑΦ Wt 
it  just  boil  up  again,  skim  it,  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  when 
cold,  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well,  and  seal  it  down.. 
06s.έΑΦ See  also  (No.  280,)  and  Obs.  to  (No.  278.) 
N.  B.  It  is  the  best  way  to  poond  the  Salt  and  Spices,  Sec, 
with  the  Oysters. 

O^s. έΑΦ This  composition  very  agreeably  heightens  the  flavour 
of  white  sauces,  and  white  made  dishes  ;  and  if  yon  add  a  glass 
of  brandy  to  it,  it  will  keep  good  for  a  considerable  time  longer 
than  Oysters  are  oot  of  season  in  England. 

Cockle  and  Muscle  Catsup^        (No.  442.) 
May  be  made  by  treating  them  in  the  same  way  as  the  Oys- 
ters in  the  preceding  Receipt. 

Pudding  Catsup.  (No.  446.) 

Half  a  pint  of  Brandy,  Essence  of  Punch  (No.  479,)  or 
Cura^oa  (No.  474,)  or  Noyeau^ 

A  pint  of  Sherry,    an  ounce  of  thin  pared  Lenon  peel. 

Half  an  ounce  of  Mace. 

Steep  them  for  fourteen  days,  then  strain  it,  and  add  a  quar- 
ter pint  of  Gapillaire,  or  (No.  475.)  This  will  keep  for  years, 
and,  mixed  with  melted  butter,  is  a  delicious  relish  to  Puddings, 
and  Sweet  dishes.  See  Pudding  Sauce  (No.  269,)  and  the 
Justice's  Orange  Syrup  (No.  392.) 

Potatoe-\-  Starch.  (No.  448.) 

Peel,  and  wash  a  pound  of  full  growi*.  Potatoes,  grate  them 
on  a  bread  grater  into  a  deep  dish,  containing  a  quart  of  clear 
water ;  stir  it  well  up,  and  then  pour  it  through  a  hair  sieve, 
and  leave  it  ten  minutes  to  settle,  till  the  water  is  quite  clear, 
then  pour  oif  the  water,  and  put  a  quart  of  fresh  water  to  it, 
stir  it  lip,  let  it  settle^  and  repeat  this  till  the  water  is  quite  clear  * 
you  y^'^\\  at  last  find  a  fine  white  powder  at  the  bottom  of  the 
vessel.     (The  criterion  of  this  process  being  completed,  is  tho 


t  **  Potatoei,  in  whatever  condition,  vrheit^er  spoiled  by  Froit.  Gemaination,  &c. 
provided  they  are  raw,  constantly  alRiid  Stavch,  diiferineoBly  in  qualitv,  the  round 
creT  ooef  the  iBMt,a  pound  prodatini^  aboat  two  ounces?' 

Parmeutscr  on  HtarUiv^  Vegetables. 


396  ORAVIKS  AND  SAUCES. 

purtty  of  the  water  that  ooows  from  it  after  stirring  it  up┬╗)  Lajr 
thia  on  a  sheet  of  paper  io  a  bair  sieve  to  dry,  either  in  thesuvy. 
or  before  the  fire,  and  it  is  ready  for  use,  and  in  a  well  stopped 
bottle  will  keep  good  for  oiaoy  months. 

If  this  be  well  made,  half  an  ounce  (ue,  a  tablespoooful)  of 
it  mixed  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  cold  water,  and  stirred  into 
a  Soup  or  Sauee,  just  before  you  take  it  up,  will  ihickea  a  pint 
of  it  to  the  qonsistence  of  Cream* 

Obt.-^Jhi┬╗  preparation  much  resemblef  the  ^* hudian  Arrow Soot,^' 
and  is  a  good  substitute  for  it ;  it  gives  a  fulness  on  tke  palate  to 
Gravies  and  Sauces  at  hardly  any  expense,  and  by  ┬τome  is  used  to 
tfiicken  Melted  butter  instead  of  Flour. 

As  it  is  perfectly  taateless,  it  will  not  alter  the  flavour  oέΓυ  έΓυ^  nosr 
delicate  Broth,  &c. 

Of  the  Flour  op  Potatoes. 

"  A  patent  has  been  recently  obtained  at  Paris,  a  gold  medal  be- 
stowed, and  other  honorary  distinctions  granted,for  the  discovery  and^ 
practice  on  a  large  teale  of  preparing  from  potatoes  a  fine  floor ;  a 
sago,  a  flour  equal  to  ground  rice,  and  a,  semolina  or  paste,  ofwhieh 
1  lb.  is  equal  to  1^  lb.  rice,  1|  lb.  vermicelli,  or,  it  is  asserted,  8  Ihs. 
of  raw  potatoes. 

**  These  preparations  are  found  valuable  to  mix  with  whealen  flour 
for  bread,  to  mtkke  biscuits,  pastry,  pye-crusts,  and  for  all  soups, 
gruels,  and  pajiada. 

<<  Large  engagements  have  been  made  for  these  preparations  with 
the  French  marine,  and  military  and  other  hospitals,  with  the  appro- 
bation of  the  faculty. 

'<  An  excellent  bread,  it  is  said,  can  be  made  of  this  flour,  at  lialf 
the  cost  of  wheaten  bread. 

'<  Heat  having  been  applied  in  these  preparations,  the  articles  will 
keep  unchanged  for  years,  and  on  board  skip,  to  China  and  back  ; 
rats,  mice,  worms,  and  insects  do  not  infest  or  destroy  this  floor. 

'<  Simply  mixed  with  cold  watem  they  are  in  ten  minutes  fit  for  food, 
when  fire  and  all  other  resource  may  be  wanted  ;  and  twalve  oaace┬╗ 
are  sufficient  for  a  day's  sustenance,  in  case  of  necessity. 

''  The  physicians  and  Surgeons  in  the  Hospitals,  in  case  of  great 
debility  of  the  stomach,  have  employed  these  preparations  with  ad- 
vantage. 

"  The  point  of  this  discovery  is,  the  cheapness  of  preparation,  tin^ 
the  conversion  of  a  surplus  growth  of  potato<?s  into  a  keeping  stock, 
in  an  elegant,  portable  and  salubrious  form." 

(No.  453.)     Salad,  or  Piquanle    Sauce  for  Cold  Meat,  Fish, 

(Sfc.     See  also  (No,  3720 

Pound  together 

An  ounce  of  scraped  Horseradish, 

Ilaif  an  ounce  of  Salt, 

A  tablespoooful  of  made  Mustard  (No.  370,) 


cAAnEs  AUD  sAucia.  297 

Four  drachms  of  inioced  Eshallots,  see  (No.  40^) 

Half  a  drachm  of  Celery  Seed,  see  (No.  409,) 

And  half  diUoof  CjiyaQae,  see  (No.  404.) 

Adding  gradually  a.  pint  of  Buroet,  se?  (No.  309,)  or  Tar- 
ragon Vinegar  (No.  396,)  and  let  itssand  in  ajar  a  week^and 
t^n  pass  ii  through  a  tammts  or  fiot  sieve. 

Curry  Poicder,  (No.  455*) 

t)ry  and  redace  the  following  Spices,  &c.  to  a  iiae  Powder 
in  the  ^ame  way  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt.^ 

Coriander  Seed,  three  ounces. 

Turmeric,  three  ounces. 

Black  Pepper,  Mustard,  and  Ginger  one  ounce  each. 

lieseer  Cardamoms,  half  an  ounce. 

Giiyenna  Pepper,  Cinnamon,  Cummin  Seed,  a  quarter 
ounce  of  each. 

Thoroughly  pouud  and  mix  together,  and  keep  them  in  ┬τ 
ire/i*┬μtepped  bottle. 

Q65.*έΑΦ This  receipt  was  an  attempt  te  imitate  some  of  the 
Best  India  Curry  Poaider^  selected  for  me,  by  a  friend  at  the 
India  House: έΑΦ the  flavour  approximates  to  the  Indian  Pow- 
der eo  exactly,  the  most  profound  Palaticians  have  pronounced 
it  a  perfect  copy  of  the  origioai  Curry  Slujf*  See  (No.  348) 
for  Curry  Sauce. 

"N.  B.  Chickens,  Rabbits,  Sweetbreads,  Breasts  of  Veal, 
Veal  Cutlets,  Mutton,  Lamb,  or  Pork  Chops,  Lobster,  Tur- 
bot.  Soles,  ┬μels.  Oysters,  &c.  are  dressed  Curry  fashion^  see 
(No.  497,)  or  Stew  them  (in  No.  399,  or  348,)  Mad  flavouring 
with  (No.  456.) 

N.  B.  The  common  fault  of  Curry  Powder  is  the  too  great 
proportion  of  CayemtCy  (to  the  milder  Aromatics  from  which 
its  agreeable  flavour  is  derived),  preventing  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  the  Curry  Powder  being  used. 

Savoury  Rago&t  Powder,  (No.  457.) 

Sali^  an  ounce. 
Mustard,  half  ap  ounce, 


*  Tbe  following  vemark  wm  cent  to  th┬τ  Editor  by  an  Eait  Indian,  friend :έΑΦ *έΑλ  Th* 
ingredients  which  70U  hatrc  selected  to  form  tbe  Curry  PoxoderwK  the  same  as  are 
uied  in  ][ndia,  wiUi  this  diffeience  only,  that  some  of  them  are  in  a  xvw  green  state' 
and  are  washed  together^^d  afterwards  dried  and  powder94,aiiA  sifted/* 


29S  GRAVIES   AVP  SAUCED. 

Albptce,  a  qaarter  of  an  ounce,f 

Black  Pepper  ground,  and  Lemon-peel  grated,  or  of  (No. 
407,)  pounded  and  sifted  fine,  half  an  ounce  each. 

Ginger,  and  Nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each* 

Cayenne  Pepper,  two  drachms. 

Pound  them  patiently,  and  pass  them  through  a  fine  hair 
aieve  ;  bottle  tbem  for  use.  The  above  articles  will  pound  ea- 
sier, and  finer,  if  they  are  dried  first  in  a  Dutch  oveoi  before  a 
very  gentle  fire,  at  a  good  distance  from  it ; έΑΦ If  you  give  them 
muck  heat^  the  fine  flavour  of  them  vnUbe  presenify  evaporated^ 
and  they  will  soon  get  a  rank  empyreumatic  (aste. 

N.  B.  Infused  in  a  quart  of  Vinegar  or  Wine,  they  make  & 
savoury  relish  for'Soups, Sauces,  &c. 

06s. έΑΦ The  Spices  in  a  Ragout  are  indispensable  to  give  it  a 
flavour,  but  not  a  predominant  one ; έΑΦ their  presence  should  bo 
rather  supposed  than  perceived  ; έΑΦ they  are  the  invisible  spirit 
of  good  Cookery  :  indeed,  a  Cook  without  Spice,  would  be 
as  much  at  a  loss,  as  a  Confectioner  without  Sugar  :*-a  bsppy 
mixture  of  them,  and  proportion  to  each  other,  and  the  other 
ingredients,  is  the  chefcfauvre  of  a  first  rate  Cook. 

The  art  of  combining  Spices,  &c.  which  may  be  termed  die 
Harmony  &f  Flavours^  no  one  hitherto  has  attempted  to  teach: 
and  the  Hule  of  Thumbs  is  the  only  guide  that  experienced 
Cooks  have  heretofore  given  for  the  assistance  of  the  Novice, 
in  the  (till  now,  in  these  pages  explained,  and  rendered,  we 
hope,  perfectly  intelligible  to  the  humblest  capacity,)  Occult 
Art  of  Cookery. έΑΦ This  is  the  first  time  Receipts  in  Cookery 
have  been  given  accurately  by  weight  or  measure  ! 

See  6bs.  on  "  the  Education  of  a  Cook's  Tongue,''^  pages 
54  and  55. 

PEA  POWDER.  (No.  468.) 

Pound  together  in  a  marble  mortar  half  an  ounce  each  of 
dried  Mint  and  Sage, έΑΦ a  drachm  of  Celery  Seed,έΑΦ and  a 
quarter  drachm  of  Cayenne  Pepper ;  rub  them  through  a  fine 


t  Ifywi  like  the  flavour,  and  do  not  dtilike  the  expense,  initead  of  Allspice  pat 
in  Mace  and  Cloves.  The  above  is  very  similar  to  the  Tvwdev'fwrt  liaed  in  Kia^ 
Biehacd  the  Second's  Kitchen,  A.  D.  1300. 

X  The  back  part  of  these  Ovens  is  so  much  hotter  than  that  which  if  next  the  file, 
thai  to  dry  thinrs  equally,  their  situation  must  be  frequently  ehanged,  or  thoieat 
the  back  of  the  oven  will  be  done  too  much,  bdbre  .those^in  the  front  are  dafio 
enouirh. 


GRAVIES  ANP  SACCIS.  299 

sieve.     This  gives  a  very  savoury  relish  to  Pea  8oiip,  and  to 
Watergruel,  whicby  by  its  help,  if  the  eater  of  it  has  not  the  t 

most  lively  imaginatioo,  he  may  fancy  he  is  sippiog  good  Pease  j 

Soup. 

Obs, έΑΦ A  drachm  of  Allspice,  or  Black  Pepper,  may  be 
pouoded  with  the  above,  as  an  additioo,  or  instead  of  the  Cay- 
έΑλenne. 

Horseradish  Powder*  (No.  458*.^ 

The  time  to  make  this,  is  during  November  and  Decemoer ; 
slice  it  the  thickness  of  a  shilling,  and  lay  it  to  dry  very  gradu- 
ally in  a  Dutch  oven,  ^a  strong  heat  soon  evaporates  its  fla- 
vour,) when  dry  enough,  pound  it  and  bottle  it. 

06s. έΑΦ See  florseradUJi  Vinegar  (No.  399*.) 

Souflierb  Powder  or  V-egetaUe  Relish,    (No.  459.) 

Dried  Parsley, 

Winter  Savory, 

Sweet  Marjoram, 

Lemon-thyme,  pf  each  two  ounces; 

Lemon-peel^  cut  very  thin  and  dried,  and 

Sweet  Basil,  an  ounce  of  each. 

*^*  Some  add  to  (he  dhovey  ^ay-leaves  and  'Celery  Seedy  a 
drachm  of  each. 

Dry  them  in  a  warm,  but  not  too  hot  Dutch  oven :  when, 
quite  dried,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  them  through  a 
double  bair  sieve  :  put  in  a  bottle  closely  stopped,  they  will  re- 
tain their  fragrance  and  flavour  for  several  months. 

N.  B.  These  Herbs  are  in  full  perfection  in  July  and  Au- 
gust, see  (No.  461*.)  An  infusion  of  the  above  in  Vinegar  or 
Wine,  makes  a  good  reli^thing  Sauce,  but  the  flavour  is  best 
when  made  with  fresh  gathered  herbs,  as  directed  in  (No  397.) 
Obs, έΑΦ This  composition  of  the  fine  aromatic  herbs,  is  an  in- 
valuable acquisition  to  the  Cook,  at  those  seasons  or  situations 
when  fresh  herbs  cannot  be  bad  ;  and  we  prefer  it  to  the  Ra- 
gout powder  (No.  457,)  it  impregnates  sauce,  soup,  &c.  with  ~ 
as  much  reHsh.  and  renders  it  agreeable  to  the  palate,  and  re- 
freshes the  gU'  tatory  nerves,  without  so  much  ri^k  of  offending 
the  Stomach. 

{No.  460,)  Soup'herb  and  Savoury  Powder,  or  Quintessence 

of  Ragout, 
Take  three  parts  of  Soup-herb   powder  (No:  459,)  to  one 
part  of  Savoury  powder  (No.  467.) 


300  CKRAVIBS   AKn   SAVCES. 

Ob<.έΑΦ Tbis  agreeable  comlMMtion  of  th&  aronaaiie  Spi┬τee 
aad  Herba  should  lie  kept  leady  prapafcd  ;  it  will  aarea  graat 
deal  of  time  io  cooking  Kagoota,  Stuffings^  Foroemea\-BaU^ 
Soup),  Sauces,  &c ;  kept  dry  and  tightly  corked  dowD,\u  fea^ 
gfaace  and  strength  may  be  preaervted  undimiBiahed  for  aeme 
time. 

N.  B.  Three  ounces  of  the  above  will  impregnate  a  qoartof 
Vinegar  or  Wine  with  a  very  agreeable  telish. 

To  DaT  Sweet  and  Savoury  Herbs.    (No.  461,) 

For  the  foUowing  accurdle  and  vahiMe  li^Btmationj  ihe 
reader  is  indebted  to  Mr.  Butler,  Herbalist  vad  Seedsinaiy, 
Covent  Garden  Market. 

^  It  is  very  important  to  those  who  are  n^t  in  the  oonalant 
habit  of  attending  the  markets,  to  know  when  the  vwrious  lee- 
sons  commence  for  purchasing  sweet  herbs,  &c. 

*'  AU  Vegetables  are  in  ike  highest  state  of 'perfection^  aod 
fullest  of  Juice  and  Flavour,  just  before  they  begiu  to  fiower; 
-έΑΦthe  first  and  last  crop  have  neither  the  fine  flavour,  aor  tke 
perfume  of  those  which  are  gathered  in  the  height  of  the  season ; 
that  is,  when  the  greater  part  of  the  oropof  each  species  is  ripe. 
"  Take  care  they  are  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  by  which  means 
they  will  have  a  better  colour  when  dried.     Cleanse  your  herhs 
weUfrom  dirt  and  dust,  cut  oflTthe  roots^f  separate  the  buocbes 
into  smaller  ones,  and  dry  them  by  the  heat  of  a  stove,  or  in  a 
Dutch  oven  before  a  common  fire,  in  such  quantities  at  a  time, 
that  the  process  may  be  speedily  finished,  i.  e.  '<  KilTem  qidck^ 
says  a  great  Botanist ; έΑΦ by  this  means,   their  flavour   will  be 
best  preserved, έΑΦ ihere  can   be  no   doubt  of  the  proprietjf  of 
drying  herbs,  &c.  hastily,   by  the  aid  of  artificial   bear   rather 
fhan  by  the  beat  of  the  sun.       In   the   application  of  ar/iiSc/al 
heat,  the  only  caution  requisite  is   to  avoid  burning ;    and  of 
this,  a  sufficient  test  is  alTorded  by  the  preservation  of  the  col- 
cur. έΑΦ The  common  custom  is,   when  they  are  perfectly  dried, 
to  put  them  in  Bugs,  and  lay  them  in   a  dry   place.     But  (be 
best  way  to  preserve  the  flavour  of  aromatic  plants,  is  to  pick 
off  the  leaves  as  soon  as  they  are  dried,  and  to  pound  theni  and 

t  Thh  U  tadly  neglected  by  those  who  dry  herbs  for  tale*  If  you  boy  tfcem  r┬╗df 
dried,  before  you  pound  ihi'in,  c!ean┬τe  them  from  dirt  and  dust,  by  έΑλtripping'  tbe 
leaves  frum  the  stalks,  and  rub  thetn  between  your  bands  orer  a  bair  stere,  and 
shake  tbem  w┬τir,  and  the  dust  will  gu  through. 


p-igajra.- 


r 

I 
1 


302  GRAVUS   AND  SAVCMS^ 

lar  in  watching  the  doe  season ;  for  of  all  the  variety  of  trti- 
cles  in  this  department,  to  fuAiisb  the  well  reflated  store-fOoni┬╗ 
nothing  is  so  precarious, έΑΦ for  frequently  after  the  first  week 
that  walnuts  come  in  season,  they  become  hard  and  shelled, 
particularly  if  the  season  is  a  very  hot  one,  therefore  let  tbe 
prudent  housekeeper  consider  it  indispensably  necessary  (bey 
should  be  purchased  as  soon  as  the  first  appear  at  market ; 
should  they  cost  a  trifle  more,  that  is  nothing  compared  to  the 
disappointment  of  findi  ng  si  x  months  hence,  when  you  go  to  your 
pickle  jar  expecting  a  fine  relish  for  your  chops,  &c.  to  Bnd  tbe 
nuts  incased  in  a  shell,  which  defies  both' teeth  and  steel:  I 
therefore  recommend  you  to  look  for  Walnuts  a3iJ  Bdt- 
TKRNU*^  the  earliest  possible  time. 

Nastxrtiuhs  are  to  be  had  bj  the  middle  of  July. 
Garuck,  from  Midsammer  to  Michaelmas. 

ESHALLOTS,  ditto. 

OviONS,  ihe  various  kinds  for  pickling,  are  to  be  hadl>y  the  middle 

of  July,  and  for  a  month  after. 
Gherkins  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  Jaly,  and  for  a  aontli 

aAer. 
CuGirBBERs  are  to  be  bad  by  the  middle  of  August,  and  for  a 

month  after. 
Melons  for  Mangoes  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  Aupet,aiid 

for  a  monih  after. 
Capsicums,  green,  red,  and  yellow,  the  end  of  July,  and  foBoviag 

month. 
Chillies,  the  eod  of  July,  and  following  month.     See   (Nos.  404 

and  405┬╗,)  and  (No.  405**.) 
Lote  Apples,  or  ToMAt AS,  end  of  July,   and  throughout  Angust. 

See  (Ntj.  443.) 
Caulii'lowcII,  for  pickling,    August  and  September. 
Artichokes,  for  pickling,  August  and  Septeoiben 
Jerusalem  Artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  August,  and  for 

three  months  after. 
Radish  PoDS,fof  pickling,  July. 
French  Beans,  Tor  pickling,  July. 

Mushrooms,  for  pickling  and  catsup ^  September.  See  (No.  439.) 
Bed  Cabbage,  August. 
White  Ca.bbaoe,  September  and  October. 
Samphire,  August. 
Horseradish,  November  and  December* 

gdr  For  Receipts  for  Pickling  see   the  Appendix  No.  II┬╗ 


eRAVIES   AND   SAtJCES.  303 

The  two  following  Receipts  were  givea  us  by  a  tery  good 
Cook  ; έΑΦ we  have  DOt  proved  tbem  : έΑΦ 

Walnuts  and  Buttbbnvts. 

V  Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  strong  enougb  to  bear  aa 
┬μgg,  pat  the  Walnuts  into  it  to  soak  a  week,  wbeu  tbe  water 
turns  black,  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  for  three  or  four  hoars, 
and  then  on  a  cloth ;  when  they  are  quite  dry,  put  tbem  into 

an  unglazed  stone  jar. 

To  make  tbe  Pickle,  get  the  best  white  Wine  Vinegar, έΑΦ to 
every  quart  put  an  ounce  of  Black  Pepper,  tbe  same  of  Mustard 

Seed,  half  an  ounce  of  Ginger,  and  twelve  Shallots.     Boil  it 
gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  theu  pour  it  over  the  Walnuts ; 

when  tliey  are  cold,  keep  them  from  tbe  air  by  covering  them 

with  a  Cork  which  fits  close,  and  that  with  a  wetted  Bladder 

and  a  Leather. 

Gherkin's,  or  Cucuhb┬μBS, 

Fat  your  Gherkins  into  unglazed  stone  jars,  and  cover  tbem 
with  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  strong  enougb  to  bear  an  egg, 
cover  tbem  down  for  two  days,  then  put  the  water  away  from 
tbe  Gherkins,  and  put  some  boiling  Vinegar  over  them,  and  do 
80  erery  d&yJilLibay.tum  Green,  than  make  a  pickle  of  fresh 
'Vinegar  and  spices,  &c.  tbe  same  as  for  Walnuts,  and  when 
cold,cover  them  close  with  a  cork,  bladder,  and  paper. 

N.  B.  Quart  glass  Tie-OverSf  which  can  be  corked  tight, 
are  tbe  best  vessels  to  keep  Pickles  in. 

,      THE  MAGAZINE  OF  TASTE.     (No.  463.) 

This  is  a  convenient  auxiliary  to  the  Cook.  It  may  be  ar- 
ranged as  a  pyramidical  Epergne  for  a  Dormant  in  the  centre 
of  tbe  table,  or  as  a  Travelling  Store  Chest. 

The  following  Sketch  will  enable  any  one  to  fit  up  an  assort- 
ment of  flavouring  materials  according  to  their  own  fancy  and 
palate,  and,  we  presume,  will  furnish  sufficient  variety  for  the 
^  amusement  of  the  gustatory  nerves  of  a  thorough-bred  Grand 
Gourmand  of  tbe  first  magnitude,  (if  Cayenne  and  Garlick 
have  not  completely  consumed  the  sensibility  of  his  palate,)  and 
consists  of  a  Sauce  Box,  containing  four  eight*ounce  bottles^ 
sixteen  four-ounce,  and  eight  two-ounce  bottles :έΑΦ - 

*  If  the  bottles  are  aqwire,  and  marked  to  quarter  ooneesi  ai  Lyne''*  graduated 
measoret  are,  it  will  wve  trouble  in  eompoonduig;* 


304 


GRAVIKS    AND  SAUCES* 


1  Pickles. 

2  Brandj. 

3  Cura^OR  (No.  474.) 

4  Syrup  (No.  476.) 

6  Salad  Sauce   (Nof.  372,  and 

453.) 
0  Puddinfr  CaUup  (No.  446.) 

7  Sauce  Superiative,  or  doable 

relish  (No.  429.) 

8  Walnut  Pickle. 

9  Muihroom  Catsup  (No.  439.) 

10  Vioegar. 

11  OU. 

12  Mustard,  see  (Nos.  370,  and 

427.) 

13  Salt,  8^  (No.  371.) 


14  Curry  Powder  (No.  455.) 
16  Soy  (No.  436.) 

16  Lemon  Juice. 

17  Essence  of  AncboTy  (No.  438.) 

18  Pepper. 

19  CAyenne    (No.  405,   or  406┬τ*.) 

20  Soup-herb  Powder   (No.  459.) 

21  Ragout  Powder  (No.  457.) 

22  Pea  Powder  (No.  458.) 
28  Zest  (No.  255.) 

24  Essence  of  Celery  (No.  409.) 

25  Sweet  Herbs  (No.  419) 

26  Lemon  Peel  (tfo.  408.) 

27  Eshallot  Wine  (No.  402.) 

28  Powdered  M'uit. 


In  a  drawer  itndtr. 


Half  a  dozen  one  ounce  bottles. 

Weights  and  scales. 

A  graduated  glass  measure,  divi- 

ed  into  t^a  ana  mm9  spoons. 
Corkscrew. 


Nutmeg  grater. 
Table  and  tea-spoon. 
Knife  and  fork. 

A  steel,  and  a 
Small  mortar. 


1 

6 
6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 
14 

21 
22 

έΑλ 

2 

15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

23 
24 
25 
26 

27 
28 

3 

4 

N.  B.  The  portable  Magazine  of  Taste  alluded  to  in  page 
47,  may  be  furnished  with έΑΦ a  four-ounce  bottle  for  CogTiioc 
(No  471,) έΑΦ ^a  ditto  for  Curagoa  (No.  474,) έΑΦ an  ounce  bottle 
for  Essence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433) έΑΦ and  one  of  like  size  for 
Cayenne  Pepper  (No.  404,  or  405.) 

Toast  and  Water.  (No.46S*.) 

Cut  a  Crust  of  Bread  off  a  stale  loaf,  (ibout  twice  tbe  thick- 
ness toast  is  usually  cut ;  toast  it  carefully  until  it  is  completely 
browned  all  over,  but  not  at  all  blackened  or  burnt :  put  tbiji  in 


GRAVIES   AND  SAUCES.  305 

a  jug,  and  poor  upon  it  as  niach  boiliog  water  as  you  wish  lo 
make  into  drink,  cover  the  jug,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite 
cold  :  the  fresher  it  is  the  better. 

Oha, έΑΦ A  roll  of  thin  fresh  cut  LeB>on  or  dried  Orange  Peel, 
or  acme  Currant  Jelly  (No  475*,)  Apples  sliced  or  roasted,  &c. 
infused  with  the  Bread,  are  grateful  additions. 

N.  B.  This  is  a  refreshing  Summer  Drink  ;  and  when  the 
proportion  of  the  fluids  is  destroyed  by  profuse  perspiration έΑΦ 
may  be  drunk  plentifully.  Let  a  large  jug  be  made  early  in 
the  day,  it  will  then  become  warmed  by  the  beat  of  the  air,  and 
may  be  drunk  without  danger έΑΦ which  water,  Gold  as  it  comes 
from  the  well,  cannot  in  Hot  weather. 

Or. 

To  make  it  more  expeditiously,  put  the  bread  into  a  mug 
and  just  cover  it  with  boiling  water;  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then 
fill  it  up  with  cold  spring  water,and  pour  it  through  a  line  sieve. 

Ohs. έΑΦ The  above  is  a  pleasant  and  excellent  beverage,  very 
grateful  to  the  Stoonach,  and  deserves  a  constant  place  by*the 
Bedside. 

Cool  Tankard^  ┬σr  Beer  Cup.  (No.  464.) 

A  quart  of  mild  Ale,  a  glass  of  white  Wine,  one  of  Brandy, 
one  of  Capillaire,  the  juice  of  a  Lemon,  a  roll  of  the  Peel  pared 
4hin,  Nutmeg  grated  on  the  top,  (a  sprig  of  Borragef  or  Balm  ) 
and  a  bit  of  toasted  Bread. 

Cider  Cup.  (No.  465.) 

Is  the  same,-έΑΦ only  substituting  Cider  for  Beer. 

^W'  (No-.  466.) 

Keep  grated  Ginger  and  Nutmeg  with  a  little  fine  dried 
Lemon  Peel  rubbed  together  in  a  mortar. 

To  make  a  quart  of  Flip :έΑΦ Pirt  the  Ale  on  the  fire  to  warm, 
έΑΦ and  beat  up  three  or  four  Eggs  with  four  ounces  of  moist 
Sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  Nutmeg  or  Ginger,  and  a  quar- 
tern of  good  old  Rum,  or  Brandy.  When  the  Ale  is  near  to 
boil,  put  It  into  one  pitcher,  and  the  Rum  and  Eggs,  &c.   into 


306  OILAVIBS    AND    SAUCJES. 

another  ;  tura  it  from  oiDe  pitcher  to  another  till  it  is  as  smootb 

as  cream. 

N.  B.  This  qoantity  T  stjled  One  Yard  of  Flannel, 
06s.έΑΦ The  above  is  giveo  in  the  words  of  the  Pubiicaa  who 

gave  us  the  Receipt 

TewahdiMe.  (No.  467.) 

A  pint  of  Table  Beer,(or  Ale,  if  you  intend  it  for  a  supple- 
ment to  your  *'  Night-Cap,")  a  tablespoonful  of  Brandy,  and 
a  teaspoon fui  of  brown  Sugar,  or  clarified  Syrup  (No.  475;) 
έΑΦ a  little  grated  Nutmeg  or  Ginger  may  be  added,  and  a  roll  - 

of  very  thin  cut  Lemon  Peel. 

Ohf. έΑΦ Before  our  readerg  make  aoy  remarks  on  this  Compositioa} 
we  beg^  of  them  to  taste  it ;  if  the  material!  are  good,  and  tbelc 
palate  vibrates  in  unison  with  our  own,  they  will  find  it  one  of  the 
pleasantest  beverages  they  ever  put  to  their  lips,  and,  as  Lord  Ruf/tven 
says,  "  this  is  a  right  Gossip's  Cup,  that  far  exceeds  all  the  Ale  tlMft 
ever  Mother  Bunch  made  in  her  life-time." 

Sir  Fleetwood  Shepherd's  Sack  Posset.    (No.  467*,) 

"  From  fam'd  Barbadoes  on  the  western  main 

Fetch  Sugar  ounoes  four έΑΦ fetch  Sack  from  Spain 

A  pint, έΑΦ and  from  the  East  Indian  Coast 

Nutmeg,  the  glory  of  our  northern  toast  ; 

O^er  flaming  Coals  let  them  together  heat, 

Till  the  all-conquering  Sack  dbsolve  the  sweet ; 

O'er  such  another  fire,  put  Eggs  just  ten, 

New  barn,  from  tread  of  Cock  and  Rump  of  Hen  ; 

Stir  them  with  steady  hand  and  conscience  pricking 

To  sec  X\i%  un^mely  end  of  ten  fine  Chicken ; 

From  shining  shelf  take  down  the  brazen  skillet, έΑΦ 

a' quart  of  milk  from  gentle  Cow  will  fill  it. 

When  boiled  and  cold,  put  milk  and  Sack  to  Kgg:s, 

Unite  them  fiimly  like  the  triple  league, 

And  on  the  fire  let  them  together  dwell 

Till  Miss  sings  twiceέΑΦ you  must  not  kiss  and  teU έΑΦ 

Each  lad  and  lass  take  up  a  silver  spoon. 

And  fall  on  fiercely  like  a  starved  Dragoon." 

To  BoUle  Beer.  (No.  468.) 

When  the  briskness  and  liveliness  of  Malt  liquors  in  the  cask 
fail,  and  ihcy  become  dead  and  vapid,  which  they  generally  do 
soon  after  they  are  tilted, έΑΦ let  theno  be  Bottled. 

Be  careful  to  use  c/ean  and  dried  bottles;  leave  them  un- 
stopped for  twelve  hours,  and  then  cork  them  as  closely  as  pos- 
sible with  good  and'sound  new  Corks  ;  put  a  bit  of  lunnp  sugar 
as  big  as  a  nutmeg  into  each  bottle  ;  the  Beer  will  be  ripe,  i,  e, 
fine  and  sparkling,  in  about  four  or  five  weeks;  if  the  weather 


GRAYIBS   AND  SAUCS8.  307 

IS  toldj  to  put  it  tip,  the  day  before  it  is  to  he  dnmlcj  place  ii  in 
a  room  where  there  is  a  Fire. 

Remember,  there  is  a  sediment,  &c.  at  the  bottom  of  the 
Bottles,  which  you  must  carefully  avoid  disturbing, έΑΦ so  pour  it 
ofif  at  oncOr  leaving  a  wineglassful  at  the  bottom. 

*^*  If  Beer  becomes  Hard  or  Stale,  a  few  graxM  of  Car- 
honate  of  Potash,  added  to  it  at  the  time  it  is  drank,  wiU  cor* 
rect  it,  and  make  Draught  Beer  as  brisk  as  Bottled  Ale. 

Rich  Raspberry  Wine  or  Brandy.     (No.  469.) 

Bruise  the  finest  ripe  Raspberries  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
strain  them  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  stone  jar,  allowing  a 
Pound  of  fine  powdered  Loaf  Sugar  to  each  Quart  of  juice ; 
stir  well  together,  and  cover  it  down ;  let  it┬τtand  for  three  days 
stirring  it  up  each  day  ;  pour  off  the  clear,  and  put  two  quarts 
of  Sherry,  or  one  of  Cogniac  Brandy,  to  each  quart  of  juice ; 
bottle  it  off:  it  will  be  fit  for  the  glass  in  a  fortnight. 

N.  B.  Or  make  it  with  the  Jelly  (No.  479.) 

LiQUEVRS.  (No.  471.) 

"SVe  have  very  little  to  tell  from  our  own  experience,  and 
refer  our  Reader  to  *'  Nouvellb  Chimie  du  Gout  et  db 
l^Odorat,  ou  VArt  du  DutHlateur,  du  Confiseur,  eUdu  Par* 
fumeur,  mis  a  la  poriee  de  tout  le  Monde, έΑΦ Paris,  1819  ;έΑΦ 
and  to  Jarrin's  Italian  Confectioner,  Loud.  1820. 

It  is  in  vain,  to  attetmpt  to  imiiale  the  best  Foreign  Li- 
QT3EVRS,  unless  we  can  obtain  the  pure  vinous  spirit  with  which 
they  are  made.  , 

Caragoa.  (No.  474.) 

Put  ^ve  ounces  of  thin  cut  Seville  Orange  Peel,  that  has 
been  dried  and  pounded,  into  a  quart  of  the  finest  and  cleanest 
Rectified  Spirit, έΑΦ after  it  has  been  infused  a  fortnight,  strain  it, 
and  add  a  quart  of  Syrup,  and  filter;  see  the  following  Re- 
ceipt : έΑΦ 

To  make  a  ([uart  of  Cura^oa, 

To  a  pint  of  the  cleanest  and  strongest  Rectified  Spirit,  add 
1wo  drachms  and  a  half  of  the  Sweet  Oil  of  Orange  Peel, 
ibake  it  up, έΑΦ dissolve  a  pound  of  good  Lump  Sugar  in  a  pint 
>f  cold  water,  make  this  into  a  Clarified  Syrup  (No.  475,) 
which  add  to  the  Spirit,  shake  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  tiil  the  fol- 
lowing^day έΑΦ then  line  a  funnel  with  a  piece  of  muslin,  and  that 
with  filtering  paper,  and  filter  it  two  or  three  times  till  it  is  quite 


1 


308  OIUVIES   AND  SAUCES. 

bright; έΑΦ or  dissolve  a  dracbm  ┬τiid  a  half  of  Carbonate  of  Pot- 
ash iQ  about  a  quarter  pint  of  the  Liqueur  by  rubbing  it  to- 
gether in  a  mortarέΑΦ adding  it  to  the  Liqueur,  and  slwkiDg  it 
well  up έΑΦ then  incorporate  a  like  quantity  of  pounded  Alum  m 
another  quarter  pint  of  the  Liqueur έΑΦ and  return  it  to  the  hr 

2ueur,  shaking  it  well  upέΑΦ and  in  a  little  time  it  will  become 
ne.  This  Liqueur  is  an  admirable  cordial έΑΦ and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  in  a  Tumbler  of  water,  is  a  very  refreshing  Summer  driok^ 
and  a  great  improvement  to  Punch┬τ 

Clarified  Syrup,  (No,  475,)   . 

Break  into  bits  two  Founds  (avoirdupois)  of  donbJe  reSned 
Lump  Sugar,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan  (that  is  well  tin- 
ned,) with  a  Pint  of  cold  spring  water ;  when  the  Sugar  is  dis- 
solved, set  it  over  a  moderate  fire :  beat  about  half  the  wbilB  of 
AB  Egg*  put  it  to  the  Sugar  before  it  gets  warm,  and  sut  it  weU 
together.  Watch  it,  and  when  it  boils  take  off  the  scum ;  keep 
it  boiling  till  no  scum  rises  and  it  is  perfectly  clear,  then  run  it 
through  a  clean  napkin  :  put  it  in  a  close  stopped  bottle  ;  it 
will  keep  for  months,  and  is  an  EUgant  Article  on  the  side- 
hoard  for  Sweetening, 

Obs, έΑΦ The  proportion  of  Sugar  ordered  in  the  above  Syruf>, 
is  a  quarter  pound  more  than  that  directed  in  the  Pfaarmacop┬τeia 
of  the  London  College  of  Physicians.  The  quantity  of  5a- 
gar  must  be  as  much  as  the  liquor  is  capable  of  keeping  dis- 
solved when  cold,  or  it  will  ferment,  and  quickly  spoil ;  if  kept 
in  a  temperate  degree  of  beat,  the  above  proportion  of  Sugar 
may  be  considered  the  basis  of  idl  Syrups. 

Capillaire,  (No.  476.) 

To  a  pint  of  Clarified  Syrup  add  a  wineglass  of  Cura^oa 
έΑλ(No.  474,) έΑΦ or  dissolve  a  drachm  of  Oil  of  Neroli  in  two 
ounces  of  Rectified  Spirit,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  it  to  Clati' 
┬μed  Syrup. 

Lemonade  in  a  MiniUe,         {No.  477.) 

Pound  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  (avoirdupois)  of  Citric,  i  c 
crystallized  Lemon  Acid,*  with  a  few  drops  of  quintessence  of 
Lemon  Peel  (No.  408,)  and  mix  it  by  degrees  with  a  pint  of 
Clarified  Syrup  (No,  475,)  or  Capillaire. 


tZ  TVaS*!^  "  ""[y  ***'^  *έΑλ┬╗*  ?"┬τ┬τ  ^  ^^^^  Aci4-but  is  rery  inftrior  in  fl┬τTo┬τr, 
Srk  *^        prepare  thii  Syrup  lbrH┬τme  Cwsumption,  vUl-Bhcajt  we  <he 


GRAVIES   AND   8AUCKS.  309 

For  SuperUUive  Syrup  of  Lemons^  eee  (No.  391.)  ) 

Obs, έΑΦ The  proportioQ  of  Acid  to  the  Syrup,  was  that  so-  j 

lected  (from  several  specimens)  by  the  Committee  of  Taste.  j 

We  advise  those  who  are  disposed  to  verify  our  Receipt  to  mix 
only  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  Syrup  first,  aod  add  the  other 
quarter  if  they  6od  it  too  Acid. 

If  you  have  none  of  (No.  408,)  flavour  your  Syrup  with 
thio  cut  Lemon  Peel,  or  use  Syrnp  of  Lemon  Peel  (No.  393.) 

A  tablespoonful  of  this  in  a  pint  of  water  will  immediately 
produce  a  very  agreeable  Sherbet ;  the  addition  of  Rum  and 
B^ndy  will  convert  this  into 

Punch  directly,  (No.  478.) 

Shruhf  or  Essence  of  Punch,  (No.  479.) 

Brandy  or  Ruro,  flavoured  with  (No.  477,)  will  give  you 
very  good  Extempore  "  Essence  of  Punch." 

Obs, έΑΦ The  addition  of  a  quart  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  makes 
"  Punch  Royal  ;^'  if,  Instead  of  wine,  the  above  quantity  of 
water  be  added,  it  will  make  "  Punch  for  Chambermaids^^ 
according  to  Salmon^s  Cookery. 

Whitey  Redf  or  Blaakf έΑΦ Currant^ έΑΦ Grape^ έΑΦ Ra┬╗pberry,  S^c. 

Jelly.  (No.  479*^ 

"^  All  fire  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner.  When  the 
fruit  is  full  ripe,  gather  it  on  a  dry  day ; έΑΦ ^as  soon  as  it  is  nice- 
ly picked,  put  it  into  a  Jar,  and  cover  it  down  very  close. 

Set  the  Jar  in  a  Saucepan  about  three  parts  filled  with  cold 
water;  pat  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  half 
an  hour.     Take  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  pour  the  contents  of  -"^ 

the  Jar  into  a  Jelly -Bag ;  pass  the  juice  through  a  second 
time ;έΑΦ (do  not  squeeze  the  bag.) 

To  each  Pint  of  juice  add  a  Pound  and  a  half  of  good 
Lamp  Sugar  poonded ;  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  it  into  a  pre- 
serving pan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  gently,  stirring  and 
skifoming  it  the  whole  time,  (about  twenty  minutes,)  L  e.  till 
no  more  skum  rises, έΑΦ it  will  be  then  perfectly  clear  and  fine ; 
pour  it  while  warm  into  pots, έΑΦ and  when  cold,  cover  them 
with  paper  wetted  in  Brandy. 

Half  a  pint  of  this  Jelly,  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  Brandy  or 
Vinegar,  will  give  you  excellent  Currant  or  Raspberry  Vine- 
gar.    To  make  Sweet  Sauce,  (No.  346.) 

06$. έΑΦ Jellies  from  other  fruits  may  be  made  in  the  same 
way,-έΑΦ -and  cannot  be  preserved  in  perfection  without  plenty  of 
good  Sugar. 


small 

ia  much 

fl^  the  due 

*^"itehalfao 

jgar  aod 

I  -r 

480.) 

If  jiayhiDg 

1.) 
Hike  Fat 

hen   put 

}V ;  wbeo 

or  six  or 

^Irts,  tbea 

oe  which 

ves^  feet 

J  is  cold, 

j^^niy  with 

ve  every 

S^Lfqoor. 

P  o(  Lump 

iHx  whites 

y  or  Ma- 

9  tbeo  pot 

her  of  an 

^l  first  must 

d  as  clear 

cold  and 

ounce  of 

|,  &c.  and 

Red  Beet 

l^u^^otnetimes 

>  Cura^oa 

of  Wine. 

may  be 

!^^^t>ot,  which 

C^s  work. 


.-$s 


THE 

COOK'S  ORACLE. 


MADE  DISHES,  &c. 

(No.  483.) 

Recevpts  for  Economicd  Made  Dishes,   written  for  the 
Cook's  Oracle^-&^  an  accomplished  English  Lady. 

Thsse  ExperimeDts  have  arisen  from  my  aversion  to  Cold 
Meat,  and  my  preference  of -what  are  termed  French  Dishes  ; 
with  which  (by  a  certain  management)  I  think  I  can  furnish 
my  table  at  far  less  expense έΑΦ than  is  generally  incuned  in  get- 
ting up  a  Plain  Dinner. 

Gravt  or  Soup  Meats  I  never  buy, έΑΦ and  yet  am  seldom 
without  a  good  provision  of  what  is  technically  denominated 
Stock. 

When,  as  it  frequently  happens,  we  have  Ham  dressed,  if 
the  Joint  be  above  the  weight  of  seven  pounds,  I  have  it  cut  in 
half,  and  prepared  in  the  following  manner : έΑΦ First,  ensure 
that  it  has  been  properly  soaked,  scraped,  and  cleaned  to  a 
nicety, έΑΦ then  put  it  into  an  Earthen  Vessel  as  near  its  own  size 
as  possible,  with  just  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  to  which 
add  four  Onions,  a  clove  of  Garlick,  half  a  dozen  Shallots,  a 
Bay  leaf,  a  bunch  of  Sweet  herbs,  half  a  dozen  Cloves,  a  few 
Peppercorns  and  Allspices  this  should  be  well  closed,  and 
kept  simmering  about  three  hours.  It  is  then  served  with 
Raspings  or  with  Glazing,  the  rind  having  first  been  taken  off 
neatly. έΑΦ The  liquor  is  strained,  and  kept  till  Poultry  of  any 
sort,  or  Meat,  is  boiled,  when  the  liquor  in  which  they  have 
been  dressed  should  be  added  to  it,  and  boiled  down  fast  tilt 
reduced  to  about  three  pints :  when  cold,  it  will  be  a  highly 
flavoured,  well  coloured  Jelly,*  and  ready  for  Sauce  for  all 
kinds  of  Ragoixts  and  Hashes,  &c,  ka. 

'*  Thi*  may  !┬╗e  still  longer  preserredέΑΦ 1|^7  the  proceu  directed  in  (No.  252.) 


I 


SIS  XADE   DISHSS* 

A  FiLLBT  OF  Vkal  I  divide  into  Three  Parts  ;  the  Meat^ 
before  it  is  skewered,  will  of  iuelf  indicate  where  the  partilioa  is 
natural,  and  will  pull  asunder  as  you  would  quarter  ao  Orange; 
έΑΦ the  Largest  Piece  should  be  stuffed  with  (No.  374,  or  375,) 
and  rolled  up,  compactly  skewered,  Sec,  and  makes  a  Tery 
pretty  small  FiUet έΑΦ the  Square  Flat  Piece  will  either  cut  into 
Cutlets  (No.  90,  or  521,)  or  slice  for  a  Pie έΑΦ and   the  Tlikk 
Piece  roust  be  well  larded  and  dressed  as  a  Fricandeau έΑΦ whteh 
I  do  in  the  following  manner : έΑΦ Put  the  larded  Veal  into  a 
stewpan  just  big  enough  to  contain  it,  with  as  much  water  as 
will  cover  it ;  when  it  has  simmered  till  delicately  whir^  aad 
80  tender  as  to  be  cut  with  a  Spoon,  it  must  be  taken  out  of  the 
water  and  set  apart, έΑΦ and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve  up  either 
with  Sorrel,  Tomata,  Mushrooms  (No.  305,  or  439,)  or  some 
of  the  above┬τmentioned  Stock έΑΦ the  Fricandeau  being  previoQs- 
ly  coloured  with  Glazing έΑΦ if  with  Mushrooms,  they  should  be 
first  parboiled  in   Salt  and  Vinegar,  and  water,  which  giva 
them  flavour,  and  keeps  them  good  colour. 

The  Sirloin  of  Beep  IlUcewise  divide  into  Three  ParU; 
I  first  have  it  nicely  honed. 

The  Under  part,  or  Fillet^  as  the  French  call  it,  will  dress 
(when  cut  into  slices)  excellently,  either  as  plain  Steaks  (No. 
94,)  Curry  (No.  497)  ;  or,  it  may  be  larded  whole,  and  gently 
stewed  in  two  quarts  of  water  (a  Bay  leaf,  two  Ooioos,  tbdr 
skins  roasted  brown,  four  Cloves,  Allspice,  &c.  &c)  till  tender, 
when  it  should  be  taken  out,  drained  quite  dry,  and  put  away έΑΦ 
it  is  then  ready  to  be  used  at  any  time  in  the  following  manner: 
έΑΦ Season  and  dredge  it  well,  then  put  it  into  a  stewpao  in 
which  a  piece  of  Butter  has  been  previously  fried  to  a  fine 
froth ;  when  the  Meat  is  sufficiently  brown,  take  it  out,  and 
throw  into  the  pan  half  a  dozen  middle-sized  Onions  to  do  a 
fine  Gold  Colour;  that  accomplished,  (during  which  the 
Dredger  should  be  in  constant  use,)  add  half  a  pint  of  Stock, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  Vinegar  (No.  396,)  and  let  the 
Onions  stew  gently  till  nearly  tender  :  the  Beef  should  then  be 
returned  to  the  stewpao,  and  the  whole  suffered  to  simmer  till 
the  meat  is  warm  through  :  care  must  be  taken  that  the  Onions 
do  not  break,  and  they  should  be  served  round  the  Beef  with 
as  much  Sauce  as  will  look  graceful  in  the  dish.  The  Fillet  is 
likewise  very  good  without  the  fried  Onions  ; έΑΦ in  that  case, 
you  should  chop  and  mix  up  together,  a  Shallot,  some  Parsley, 


MADS   DISHES.  313 

a  few  Capers  and  the  Yolk  of  a  hard  Egg,  and  strew  them 
lightly  over  the  sarface  of  the  Beef. 

The  Fat  Emd  of  the  Strloio  and  Booes  should  be  put  to  sim* 
mer  in  the  liqaor,  io  which  the  Fillet  was  first  stewed,  and 
done  till  the  Beef  looks  loose ;  it  should  then  be  put  away  io^o 
a  deep  vessel,  and  the  Soup  strained  over  it,  which,  cooling 
with  the  Fat,  upon  the  top  (thereby  escluding  the  air),  will 
keep  as  long  as  may  be  required  ; έΑΦ vyhen  the  Soup  is  to  be 
used,  the  fat  must  be  cleared  from  it,^έΑΦ a  Carrot,  Parsnip,  a 
head  of  Celery,  a  Leek,  and  three  Turnips,  cleaned  and  scald" 
ed,  should  be  added  to  it,  and  the  whole  suffered  to  simmer 
gently  till  the  vegetables  are  quite  done,  when  they  must  be 
strained  from  the  liquor,  and  the  Soup  served  up  with  large 
square  thick  pieces  of  toasted  bread. 

Those  who  like  a  Plain  BouilUf  warm  the  Beef  in  the  Soup, 
and  serve  it  up  with  the  Turnips  and  Carrots  which  bad  been 
strained  before  from  the  Soup.  A  White  Cabbage  quartered, 
is  no  bad  addition  to  the  Garnish  of  the  Bouilli,  or  to  the  fla- 
vour of  the  Soup.  If  it  is  a  Dressed  Bouilli,  sliced  Carrots 
and  Button  Onions  should  be  stewed  ia  thijckened  Stock,  and 
poured  over  the  Meat. 

A  Neck  of  MvUen,  boned,  sprinkled  with  dried  Sage,  pow- 
dered fine,  or  (No.  378)  seasoned  and  rolled  and  roasted,  is 
very  good.  The  Bones  and  Scrag  make  excellent  Gravy  stewed 
down,  and  if  done  very  gently,  the  Meat  is  not  bad  eating. 
The  same  herbs  should  be  put  to  it,  as .  to  other  Stocks,  with 
the  addition  of  a  Carrot :  this  will  make  very  good  Mutton 
Biotb.  In  short,  wherever  there  are  Bones  or  Trimmings  to 
be  got  out  of  any  Meat,  that  is  dressed  in  my  Kitchen,  they 
are  made  to  contribute  towards  Soup  or  Gravy,  or  (No.  9,52.  j 

Instead  of  roasting  a  Harb  (which  at  best  is  but  dry  food,) 
slew  it,  if  Ybttwg,  Plain,-^if  an  CHd  one.  Lard  it.  The 
Shoulders  and  Legs  should  be  taken  off,  and  the  Back  cut  into 
three  pieces^  these,  with  a  Bay  leaf,  half  a  dozen  ShaIlots,one 
Onion  pierced  with  four  Cloves,  should  be  laid  with  as  much 
good  vinegar  as  will  cover  them,  for  twenty->four  hours  in  a 
deep  dish.  In  the  mean  time,  the  Head,  Neck,  Ribs,  Liver, 
Heart,  8cc.  &c.  should  be  browned  in  frothed  Butter  well  sea- 
sonedέΑΦ add  half  a  pound  of  lean  Bacon  cut  into  small  pieces, 
a  large  bunch  of  Herbs,  a  Carrot,  and  a  few  Allspice έΑΦ sim- 
mer these  in  a  quart  of  water  till  it  be  reduced  to  about  half 
the  quantity,  v( ben  it  should  be  strained,  and  those  parts  of 
27 


3H  MADE  DISHES. 

the  Hare  vrbi^b  haTe  beeo  infuBad  io  the  Yiaegar,  should  (with 
the  whole  conteots  of  the  dish)  be  added  to  iu  and  steweli  till 
quite  doee.  Those  nrho  like  Oaions  may  brown  half  adoam, 
Btew  them  io  part  of  the  Gravy,  aod  dish  them  round  lb 
Hare. 

When  it  comes  from  the  table,  sapposing  some  to  be  kd, 
the  Meat  shoeld  be  taken-  from  the  Bones,  and  with  a  few 
Forcemeat  balls,  the  remaies  of  the  Gravy,  and  about  a  qa┬╗- 
ter  of  a  pint  of  Red  Wine  and  a  proportionable  quantity  of 
water,  it  will  make  a  very  pretty  Soup έΑΦ to  those  who  have  no 
objection  to  Catsup,  (No.  439,)  a  spoonful  in  the  origiaal  Gra^ 
vy  is  an  i  mprovemeot,  ^s  indeed  it  is  in  every  made  Dish  where 
the  Mushroom  itself  19  not  at  command. 

Every  RagodU,  in  my  opinion,  should  be  dressed  tbe  day 
before  it  is  wanted,  that  any  Fat,  which  has  escaped  ibe  skim- 
ming spoon,  may  with  ease  be  taken  off  when  cold. 

Calf^s  Head. έΑΦ Take  tbe  half  of  one,  with  the  skin  on,έΑΦ 
put  it  into  a  large  stewpan  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it, 
a  knuckle  of  Ham,  and  the  usual  accompaniments  of  Onjons, 
Herbs,  &c.  &c,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  flesh  may  be  separa- 
ted from  the  bone  with  a  Spoon έΑΦ do  so,  and  while  sttU  hot  cut 
it  into  as  large  a  sieed  square  as  tbe  piece  will  admit  of  ; έΑΦ the 
trimmiogs  and  half  the  liquor  put  by  in  a  tureen ;    to  the  re- 
maining half  add  a  gill  of  White  Wine,  and  reduce  tbe  whofe 
of  that  by  quick  boiling  till  it  is  again  half  consumed,  when  it 
should  be  poured  over  tbe  large  square  piece  in    an   ┬μarthea 
Vessel  surrounded    with   Mashrooms,  white  Button  Onioos, 
small  pieces  of  Pickled  Pork  (half  an  inch  in-breadth,  and  ooe 
and  half  in  length,)   and  the  Tongue  in  Slices,  and  r^imoiered 
till  the  whole  is  fit  to  serve  up  ;    some  browned  Forcemeat 
balls  are  a  pretty  addtlioD.     After  this  comes  from  the  TaUe, 
the  remains  should  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  mixed  up  with 
the  trimmings  and  liquor,  which  (with  a  little  more  wine)  pro* 
perly  thickened,  will  make  a  very  good  Mock  Turtle  Soup  for 
a  future  occasion." 

To  Hash  Mutton,  Sfc.  (No.  484.) 

Cut  tlm  Meat  into  handsome  slices,  and  trim  off  all  the  sin- 
ews, skin  and  gristle,  Sec. έΑΦ put  in  nothing  btU  what  isto  be  e<A- 
en,  lay  them  on  0  plate,  ready;  prepare  your  Sauce  as  receipt 
(No.  360,)  or  (No.  451,)  or  (No.  486 J  put  in  the  Meat,  and 
lot  it  simmer  gently  till  it  is  thoroughly  warm ; έΑΦ do  not  let  it 


1 


MADE   DISHES.  315 

* 

BoU^  08  thai  wiU  make  the- Meat  tough  and  hard^*  and  that 
vvill  be  as  Joan  Cromwell  has  it,  a  Harsh, 

Obs.┬τ┬τ┬╗  Select  for  your  Hashy  those  parts  of  the  joint  ikat 
are  least  done.  It  is  a  mode  of  Cookery  by  no  means  suited 
to  delicate  stomachs,  unless  the  Meat,  &c.  be  considerably  nn- 
der-done  the  first  time έΑΦ a  second  dressing  must  spoil  it. 

To  WARM  HA8HBS.f  (No,  485.) 

Made  Dishes, έΑΦ Stews, έΑΦ Ragouts, έΑΦ Soups,  Stc.  Put  whajt 
you  have  left,  into  a  deep  hash  dish,  or  tureen  :  when  you 
want  it,  set  this  in  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water  ;  let  it  stand,  till 
the  contents  are  quite  warm. 

To  Hash  Beef,  &c.  (No.  486.) 

Put  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Broth, έΑΦ or  Water,  with  an  ounce 
of  (No.  252,)  or  a  large  tablespoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup 
into  a  stewpan  with  the  Gravy  you  have  saved  that  was  left 
from  the  Beef,  and  put  in  a  quarter  ounce  of  onion  sliced  Yery 


'  *  Hashes  and  Meats  dressed  a  seconid  time,  should  ofdy  iimmer 
^entlyi  tiii  jutiwarm  ibrough  '.  it  is  supposed  they  have  been  done 
very  nearly,  if  not  quite  enough,  already  ;  select  those  parts  of  the 
joint  that  have  been  least  done. 

In  making  a  Hash  from  a  Leg  of  MiUorij  do  not  destroy  the  Mar- 
row-bone to  help  the  gravy  of  your  hash,  to  which  it'  will  make  no 
perceptible  addition  ;  but  saw  it  in  two,  twist  writing  paper  round  the 
┬τnds,  and  send  it  up  on  a  plate,  as  a  side  dish,  garnished  with  sprigs 
έΑλf  parsley : έΑΦ if  it  is  a  Roast  leg,  preserve  the  end  bone,  and  send  it 
up  between  the  marrow-bones.  This  is  a  very  pretty  Luncheon  or  Sup- 
per dish. 

t  The  ^ain  Marie  or  Water-Bath,  see  note  to  (No.  529,)  is  the 
best  utensil  to  warm  up  made  dishes,  and  things  that  have  been  al- 
ready sufficiently  dressed, ^s  it  neither  consumes  the  sauce,  nor  har- 
dens the  meat ;έΑΦ  if  you  have  not  a  Water-Bath,  a  Dutch  Oven  wiU 
sometimes  supply  the  place  of  it. 

'<  Bain  Marie  is  a  flat  vessel  containing  boiling  water  :  you  put  all 
your  stewpans  into  the  water,  and  keep  that  water  always  very  hot, 
but  it  must  not  boil ;  the  effect  of  this  Bain  Marie  is  to  keep  every 
thin^  warm  without  altering  either  the  quantity  or  the  quality,  par- 
ticularly the  quality.  When  I  had  the  honour  of  serving  a  Nobleman 
who  kept  a  very  extensive  hunting  establishment,  aad  the  hour  of 
dinner  was  consequently  uncertain,  I  was  in  the  habit  of  using  Bain 
Marie,  as  a  ceitain  means  of  preserving  the  flavour  of  all  my  dishes. 
]f  you  keep  your  sauce  or  broth  or  soup  by  the  fireside,  the  soup  re- 
duces and  becomes  too  strong,  and  the  sauce  thickens  as  well  as  re- 
ducea.  This  is  the  best  way  of  warming  Turtle,  or  Mock  Turtle 
Soop, έΑΦ as  4ih^  thick  part  is  always  at  the  bottom,  and  this  method 
prevents  it  from  burning^  aod  keeps  it  always  good."'┬τ-UD┬μ's  Cookery- 


I 


έΨι1 
I 


316  ICADE   DISHC5. 

fine,  aod  boil  it  about  ten  miautes ;  put  a  large  labiespooDful 
of  Flour  into'  a  basio,  just  wet  it  with  a  Jittle  water,  mix  it 
well  together,  and  then  stir  li  Into  the  broth,  and  give  it  a  bol) 
for  five  or  ten  nninutes,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to 
receive  the  Beef,  &c.  let  it  stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  till  the 
Meat  is  warm. 

N.  B.  A  teaspoonful  of  Parsley  chopped  as  fine  as  possible 
and  put  in  five  minutes  before  it  is  served  up,  is  a  great  addi- 
tion ; έΑΦ otheris  like  half}  a  wineglass  of  Port  wioe,  and  a  des- 
sertjipoonful  of  Currant  Jelly. 

See  also  No.  360,  which  will  show  you  every  variety  of 
manner  of  making  and  flavouring  the  most  highly  finished 
Hash  Sauce,  and  (Nos.  484, 485,  and  506.) 

Cold  Meat  BroUedf  wUh  Poached  Eggs,  (No.  487.) 

The  inside  of  a  Sirloin  of  Beef  is  best  for  this  dish,  or  a 
Leg  of  Mutton.  Cut  the  slices  of  even  and  equal  thickness, 
and  broil  and  brown  them  carefully  and  slightly  over  a  clear 
smart  fire,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven,  give  those  slices  most  fire  that' 
are  least  done; έΑΦ lay  them  in  a  dish  before  the  fire  to  keep  hot, 
while  you  pOBCh  the  EggSj  ttf  directed  ia  (No.  546,)  and  niasb- 
ed  Potatoes  (No.  106.) 

Obs, έΑΦ This  makes  a  savoury  Luncheon  or  Supper, έΑΦ but  is 
more  relishing  than  nourishing,  unless  the  Meat  was  under* 
done  the  first  time  it  was  dressed. 

(No.  307)  for  Sauce,  to  which  some  add  a  few  drops  of 
Shallot  wine  or  vinegar.  See  (No.  402,)  or  (No.  439,)  or 
(No.  359,)  warmed, έΑΦ or  Grill  Sauce  (No.  355.) 

Mrs.  Phillips's  Irish  Sleio.  (No.  488.) 

Take  five  thick  Mutton  Chops  or  two  pouuds  off  the  neck 
or  loin  ;  four  pounds  of  Potatoes ;  peel  them  and  cut  them  in 
halves ;  six  Onions,  or  half  a  pound  of  onions,  peel  aod  slice 
them  also ; έΑΦ first  put  a  layer  of  Po^toes  at  the  bottom  of  your 
stewpan,  then  a  couple  of  Chops  and  .some  of  the  Onions ; 
then  again  potatoes,  and  so  on  till  the  pan  is  quite  full, έΑΦ a  small 
spoonRil  of  white  pepper,  and  about  one  and  a  half  of  salt, 
and  three  gills  of  broth  or  gravy ;  coverall  very  close  in,  so  as 
to  prevent  the  steam  from  getting  out,  and  let  them  sle┬τr  (wo 
hours  oh  a  very  slow  fire.  A  small  slice  of  ham  is  a  great  ad- 
dition to  this  dish.  The  Cook  will  be  the  best  judge  when  it 
is  done,  as  a  great  deal  depends  on  the  fire  you  have. 


IfADlS   DISHES.  317 

'  K.  B.  Great  care  must  be  takeo  oot  to  let  it  bum,  and  that 
'it  db^s  not  do  too  fast. 

To  make  an  Irish  Stew,  or  Hunter's  Pie. 

Take  part  of  a  Neck  of  Mutton,  cut  it  into  cbops,  aeasoo  it 
inrell,  put  into  a  stewpao,  let  it  braae  for  half  ao  boor,  taktt 
Hwo  dozen  of  potatoes,  boil  tbem,  mash  tbem,  aod  seasoo  tbefn, 
butter  your  mouldy  aDdlioe  it  with  the  potatoes,  put  in  the 
Mutton^  bake  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  it  will  be  done,  cat  a 
faoie  in  the  top  and  add  some  good  grairy  to  it* 
,  N.  B.  The  above  is  the  contribution  of  Mr,  Morrison  of  tht  Leioi- 
ler  Hotel,  Dublin. 

A  good  Scotch  Hagpes,  (No.  488*,) 
Make  the  baggies-bag  perfeotljr  clean  ;  parboil  the  draught, 
boil  the  liver  very  well,  so  as  4t  will  grate ;  dry  the  meal  before 
-the  fire;  mince  the  draught  and  a  pretty  large  piece  of  beef 
very  small ;  grate  about  half  of  the  liver ;  mince  plenty  of  the 
suet  and  some  onioas  small ;  mix  all  these  materials  very  well 
together,  with  a  handful  or  two  of  the  dried  meal ;  spread 
tbem  onlhe  table,  and  season  them  properly  with  salt  and  mixt 
spices^  take  any  of  the  scraps  of  beef  that  is  left  from  mint- 
ing, and  some  of  the  water  that  boiled  the  draught,  and  make 
about  a  chpppin  (i,  e,  aquart)  of  good  stock  of  it ;  then  pat  all 
ibe  haggles  meat  into  the  bag,  and  that  broth  in  it ;  then  sew 
i]tp  the  bag ;  but  be  sure  to  put  out  all  the  wind  before  you  se^ 
It  qnite  olose.  If  you  think  the  bag  is  thin,  you  ma'j  pui  ^ 
in  a  cloth.  Jf  it  is  a  large  baggies,  it  will  tak^  at  ]ea9t  two 
flours  boilmg. 

^^  ┬τ  beok  of  Cookdy  at  m;:,^^^^^  '┬τ"┬τ"'  ^'*'  ^^' 

┬τmu-    έΑλ        e  .  ^>NCB┬╗  COLLOPS. 

^     This  IS  a  favoi;viU  ┬τcotch  di8b,^few  families  are  without 

'T^  t  '^^  ^^  ^^  ^^  ┬χ'^*y*  ''^^^y  *<>  ^^^^  ┬τn  ex*fa  dish. 

lake  am,  and  chop  and  mince  it  very  small ;  to  which 
ada  S6aae  salt  and  pepper.  Put  this,  in  its  j-aw  state,  into 
fimalt  jars,  and  pour^n  the  top  some  clarified  1)uUer.  When 
intended  for  use,  put  the  clarified  buttef  into  a  fryingpan,  and 
slice  someonions  into  tbe  pan,  and  fry  them.  Add  a  fettle  wa- 
W^Or-Jt,  f  nd  then  put  m  the  minced  meat.  Stew  it  well  and 
10  a  few  ininule^  it  will  bf)  fit  tp  gexve  up."_Cochrane's  5ea- 
tafmj&Uuide, 

S7* 


*.:  r┬╗ 


31 S  MADS   DI5H┬μS┬τ 

Harr^co^r  Mutton  a  la  Moost-Ate.     (No.  489.) 

Cut  the  best  end  of  a  Neck  or  Loin  of  Matton  that  iua 
been  kept  till  tender,  into  Chops  of  equal  thickoess,  one  cib  to 
each ;  (Ub  hons  hommes  de  Boucke  de  Pari9^  cut  two  chops  to 
one  bone,  but  h  is  more  convenient  to  help  them  when  there  is 
only  one,  two  at  a  tine  is  too  large  a  dose  for  Joha  Bull,)  tria 
off  most  of  the  Fat,  and  the  lower  end  of  the  chine  bone,   and 
scrape  it  clean  ; έΑΦ ^flttten  them  with  a  cleaTer,  and  lay  them  in 
a  Stewpan,  with  an  ounce  of  Butter  and  a  large  Onion  ; έΑΦ set 
it  over  a  smart  fire  :  if  your  fire  is  not  sharp,  ibe  chops  will 
be  done  before  they  are  coloured :  the  intention  of  fryiog  tbem 
is  merely  to  gwe  ^em  a  brpwmng. 

While  the  Chops  are  browning,  peel  and  boU  a  couple  of 
dozen  of  young  button  Onions  in  about  three  pints  o!  water 
(qt  about  15  or  30  minutes,  set  them  by, έΑΦ ^aod  pour  off  the  li- 
quor they  were  boiled  in  into  the  stewpan  with  the  chops,  and 
add  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  cover  them,  remove  the  scum 
as  it  rises,  and  then  put  in  six  ounces  of  Carrots,  and  eight 
ounces  of  Turnips  peeled  and  cut  into  slices,  or  shaped  into 
balls  about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg,  put  in  the  Carrots  twenty  min- 
utes before  the  Turnip,  he  careful  tkey'are  not  stewed  too  fast 
or  too  mucky έΑΦ so  take  out  one  of  the  Chops  with  a  fish  slice, 
and  try  it:  when  they  are  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  an 
hour  and  a  half,  then  pass  the  gravy  through  a  sieve  into  a  ba- 
sin, skim  off  the  fat,  aad  set  the  meat  and  vegetables  by  the 
fire  to  keep  hot,  and  pour  some  boiling  water  over  the  buttoa 
Onions  to  warm  them,  and  then  put  them  round  the  Dish,  the 
last  thing. 

Thicken  tite  Gravy  by  putting  an  ounce  of  Butter  ioto  a 
Stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  will 
stiffen  it,  pour  the  gravy  to  it  by  degrees,  stir  together  till  it 
boils;  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  or  taiamis  into  a  stewpan, 
┬τnd  let  it  simmer  gently  while  you  dish  up  thi^Meat  and  Vege- 
tables ;  lay  the  chops  round  a  disb,  pmt  the  Vegetables  in  the 
middle,  and  pour  the  thickened  gravy  over.  Some  put  in  Ca- 
pers, &c.  minced  Gfherkins,  &c. 

Obs, έΑΦ Rump  steaks,  Veal  cutlets,  and  Bbbf  taus, 
make  excellent  dishes -dressed  ia  the  like  manner* 


4  3>rolMibl7┬τ  eoDtraeUoit  df  **  S^ut  Sttgmu^ 


1UU>S   DISHES.  519 

MuUm  C^ps  delicMdy   SUtoed^  and  good  Mutton  Bretk. 

Put  the  Cbops  into  a  stewpan  with  cold  water  eiioagh  to 
cover  them,  and  ao  Onioo,  when  it  is  comiDg  to  a  boil,  ikim  it, 
έΑλcover  the  pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  very  dou>  Ftre,  till  the 
Cbops  are  tender, έΑΦ ^if  they  have  been  kept  a  proper  time,  thef 
will  take  about  three  quarters  of  aa  hour's  very  genile  nmTner- 
4ng.  Send  up  Turnips  with  them,  (No.  130,)  tbof  may  bo 
boiled  with  the  cbops,  skim  them  well  and  send  them  op  in  a 
deep  dish,  with  the  Broth  they  were  stewed  in. 

N.  B.  The  Broth  will  make  an  ecoaomieal  one,  and  the 
Meat  another,  wholesome  and  comfortable  meal. 

ShouUer  of  Lamb  GriOed.  (No.  401.) 
BoilU, έΑΦ score  it  in  chequers  about  an  inch  square,  rob  it 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  it,  strew  it  with 
bread-crumbs  and  dried  parsley,  or  sweet  Herbs,  or  (No.  457 
or  459,)  and  Carbonado,  i.  e,  GriH,  t.  ┬τ.  Broil  it  over  a  clear 
fire;  or  put  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  till  it  is  a  nice  light  brown; 
send  up  some  gravy  with  it,  or  make  a  sauce  for  it  of^  flour  and 
water  well  mixed  together  with  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  a  ta- 
blespoooful  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.     See  also  Grill  Sauce  (No.  355.) 

N.  B.  Breasts  of  Lamb  are  often  done  the  sasie  way,  and 
with  Mushroom  or  Mutton  sauce  (No.  307.) 

Lam6*┬τ  Fry,  (No.  492.) 

Fry  it  plain,  or. dip  it  in  an  egg  well  beaten  on  a  plate,  and 
strew  some  fine  stale  bread-crumbs  over  it :  garnish  with  crisp 
parsley  (No.  389.)     For  Sauce  <No.  355,  or  No.  366i) 

Shin  of  Beef*  Stewed.  (No.  493.) 
Desire  the  butcher  to  saw  the  bone  into  three  or  four  pieces, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  just  covei  it  with  cold  water, έΑΦ when 
it  simmers,  skim  it  clean, έΑΦ then  put  in  a  bundle  of  Sweet  Herbf, 
a  large  Onion,  a  head  of  Celery,  a  dozen  berries  of  Black 
Pepper,  and  the  same  of  Allspice  : έΑΦ stew  very  gently  over  a 
slew  ┬μre  till  the  Meat  is  tender, έΑΦ this  will  take  from  about 
Three  hours  and  a  half,  to  four  and  a  half. 


*  The  proTerbwyv,  **  Of  all  the  Fvwh  of  the  Air^  commend  me  to  the  SHn  tfBeeft 
έΑΦfor  there's  Harrow  for  ihe  mMterc^Meatibr  theUtitveM,  Gri┬╗U┬τ  Ibr  the  ServaiiM* 
┬τBd  Bonef  for-the  I>ost^'* 


330  MADE  D1SH┬μS┬τ 

Take  three  Carrots,  peel  and  cut  tbemiDtotmell  squares; έΑΦ 
peel  and  cut  ready  ie  small  squam  a  coaple  of  Turoips,  with  a 
couple  of  doseo  of  small  youo^  round  silver  Buttoo  Oniooa ; 
boil  ibem  till  tead^r,  the  Tarnips  and  Ooioas  will  be  enon^ 
in  about  fifteen  minntes, έΑΦ the  Carrots  will  require  about  twin 
as  long έΑΦ drain  them  dry. 

When  the  Beef  is  quite  tender  take  it  out  carefully  with  a 
slice  and  put  it  on  a  dish  while  you  thicken  a  pint  and  a  haJfaf 
the  Gra?t  :  to  do  this,  mix  three  tablespooosful  of  flour  with 
a  teacupful  of  the  beef  liquor ;  to  make  Soup  of  the  rest  of  it,  > 
see  (No.  238,)  stir  this  thoroughly  together  till  it  ho/Is,  scam  off 
the  Fat,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  put  your  vegetables  io  to 
warm  \-^8eaaon  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  winegVass  o┬μ  Mush- 
room Catsup  (No.  439,)  or  Port  wine,  or  both,  and  pour  it 
over  the  Beef. 

Send  up  Wow  Wow  sauce  (No.  328,)  in  a  boat. 

N.  B.  Or,  instead  of  sending  up  the  Beef  whole,  cut  the 
meat  into  handsome  pieces  fit  to. help  at  table,  and  lay  it  in  the 
middle  of  the  dish,  with  the  Vegetables  and  Sauce  (which,  f 
you  flavour  with  (No.  456,)  you  may  call  Beef  Cubrt,)  round 
it.  A  Leg  OF  Mutton  is  eiccelleot  dressed  the  same  way έΑΦ 
equal  to  le  Gigol  de  sepl  heureSf  so  famous  in  the  French  kitchen. 

Obs. έΑΦ This  Stew  has  every  claim  to  the  attention  of  the 
Rational  Epicure^  being  one  of  those  in  which  Fruoalitt, 
Nourishment,  and  Palatbableness,  are  most  happily  com- 
bined,έΑΦ and  you  get  half  a  Gallon  of  excellent.  BrOth  into  the 
bargain. 

We  advise  the   Mistress  of  the  table,  to  call  it   Ragoijt 
Beef;  this  will  ensure  it  being  eaten   with  unanimous ap* 
plause  ; έΑΦ the  homely  appellation  oi  Skin  of  Beef  stewed  \┬╗ 
enough  to  gWe  your  Genteel  eater,  a  locked  jaw. 
*' Remember,  when  the  Jadgment's  weak,  the  Prejudice  is  strong" 

Our  Modern  Epicures  resemble  the  Ancient,t  who  thought 
the  dearest  diah  must  be  the  most  delicious : 

*έΑλ  And  think  a  11  Wiiflom  Kei 

In  being  impntinently  nicek** 

t  The  remotest  parts  i┬╗f  the  wnrld  were  yisited)  and  Earth,  Air,  and 
Ocean  ransacked  to  fnrnish  4^9  complicated  delicacies  of  a  Romao 
Supper. 

Suidds,  teWs  us,  that  PityUuSf  who  had  a  Ha/  toas^ue  and  a  Cold 

stomach,  in  order  to  g'ratiiy  the  latter  with  At  offending  the  former,έΑΦ. 

-made  a  sheath  for  his  Tongue,  so  that  lie  could  swtdlov  his  pottt^ 


MADE  D1SHEB┬τ  321 

THius,  tbey  reckon  Turtle  and  Puncb,  to  be  **  thiventy-foive 
per  shenf*  more  inviting  tban  Meek  Turtle  and  Good  Mall 
JLiquor,έΑΦ bowever  bad  the  former  may  be,  and  however  good 
the  latter  ; έΑΦ we  wish  these  folks  could  be  made  to  understand, 
tbet  the  Soup  for  each,  and  all  the  accompaniments,  are  pre- 
cisely the  same ; έΑΦ th^re  is  this  only  difference,  the  former  is 
commonly  made  with  a  "  STARVED  TURTLE,''  (see 
Notes  at  the  foot  of  page  ^%g,)  the  latter  with  a  "  FATTED 
CALF."     See(No8.247, 343and343┬╗.)      ' 

The  scarcity  of  tolerably  good  cooks,  ceases  to  be  surpri- 
sing, when  we  reflect  how  much  more  astonishing  is  the  igno* 
ranee  of  most  of  those  who  assume  the  character  of  Scientific 
GOURMANDS,*  SO  extremely  ignorant  of  *'  the  Affairs  of  the 
Mouth," έΑΦ tbey  seem  hardly  to  "  know  a  Sheep's  Headfr^m  a 
CoiToty'  and  their  real  pretensions  to  be  profound  Palaticians, 
are  as  moderate,  as  the  wine  merchant*s  customer,  whose  sa- 
gacity in  the  selection  of  Liquors,  was  only  so  exquisite,  that 
έΑΦ be  knew  that  Port  wine  was  black,  and  that  if  he  drank 
έΨιenough  of  it,  it  would  lAake  him  drunk. 

Brisket  of  Beef  Stewed.  (No.  494.) 

This  is  prepared  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  **  Soup  and 
BouUnr    See  (Nos.  5, 938,  or  493.) 

Harricot  of  Beef,  (No.  495.) 

A  stewed  brisket  cut  in  slices,  and  sent  up  with  the  same 

Sauce  of  roots, &c.  as  we  have  directed  for  harricot  of  mutton 

^  (No.  489,)  is  a  most  excellent  dish  of  very  moderate  expense. 

Savoury  Salt  Beef  Baked,  (No.  496.) 

The  Tongue  side  of  a  round  of  Beef  is  the  best  bit  for  this 
purpose,  if  it  weighs  fifteen  pounds  let  it  hang  two  or  three  days ; 


scaSdSikg  hot ;  yea,  I  myself  have  kaown  a  Shropshire  geHtkman  of 
the  tike  quality  ! !" έΑΦ Moffst  on  Food. 

*^  In  th┬τ  refined  extravagance  of  the  tables  of  the  great,  where  the 
Culinary  arts  are  pushed  to  excess, έΑΦ Luxui^  becomes  false  to  itself, 
and  ihings  are  valued,  not  as  they  are  nutritious,  or  agreeable  to  the 
έΑλppetitej  but  in  proportion  as  tb┬τy  ar┬τ  r┬τr┬τ,-έΑΦ out  of  season, έΑΦ or 
costly." έΑΦ Caoooan  on  Gout. 

*  Cookery  is  an  art,  appreciated  by  only  a  very  few  individuals; 
and  which  requires,  in  addition  to  a  most  studious  and  diligent  appli- 
cation, no  small  share  of  intellect,  and  the  strictest  sobriety  and 
f  uQstuality." έΑΦ ^Ude*s  Cookery 


3fS  HA0B  DISHES. 

then  take  three  ounces  of  SaltpeHv,  one  ounce  of  coarse  Si^ar, 
έΑλ  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Black  pepper,  and  same  of  AllffMce, 
(tome  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Ginger,  or  (No.  457,')  anft 
some  minced  sweet  and  saYOury  Herbs  (No.  459,)  and  thnt 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  common  Salt;  incorporate  these  ingre- 
dients by  pounding  thero  together  in  a  mortar ;  then  take  the 
bone  out,  and  rub  the  Meat  well  with  the  above  mixture,  tufii- 
ing  it,  and  rubbing  it  every  day  for  a  fortnight. 

When  you  dress  it,  put  itsoto  a  pan  with  a  quart  of  wafer  ; 
coyer  the  meat  with  about  three  pounds  of  mutton  saetisbred" 
^ed  rather  thick*  and  an  onion  or  two  minced  sinaJI ;  cover  ther 
whole  with  a  flour  crust  to  the  top  or  brim  of  the  pan,  and  let 
^t  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  six  hours,  (or,  just 
cover  it  with  water,  and  iet  it  stew  very  gently  for  about  five 
hours,  and  when  you  send  it  to  table,  cover  the  top  with  fine^ 
ly  chopped  Parsley.)  If  the  Beef  weighs  more,  put  a  propor- 
tional addition  of  all  the  ingredients. 

The  Gravy  you  will  find  a  strong  Con^wnime  excellent  for 
Sauce  or  Soup, έΑΦ or  making  Soy,  or  Browning,  see  (No.  332,^ 
and  being  impregnated  with  salt,  will  keep  several  days. 

TAts  Jfdnt  sheuld  not  be  cut  till  U  is  Cold, έΑΦ and  then  with  a 
sharp  knife  to  prevent  waste,  and  keep  it  even  and  comely  to 
the  eye. 

06┬τ. έΑΦ This  is  a  most  excellent  way  of  preparing  and  dres- 
sing Beef  (No.  503,) έΑΦ and  a  savoury  dish,  ,for  Sandwiches,. 
&c. έΑΦ in  moderate  weather  it  will  keep  good  for  a  fortnight,  af- 
ter it  is  dressed,  it  is  one  of  the  most  economical  and  elegaot 
articles  of  ready  dressed  keeping  provisions ;  deserving  the  par* 
ticular  attention  of  those  families  who  frequently  have  Accidents 
al  Customers  dropping  ia  at  Luncheon  or  Supper  time. 

Curries.       (No.  497.)  See  (249.) 

Cut  Fowls  or  Rabbits  into  joints;  put  four  ounces  of  Bat- 
ter in  (o  a  stewpan;  when  it  is  melted,  put  in  the  meat,  and 
two  Onions  sliced ;  let  them  be  over  a  smart  fire  till  .they  ate 
of  a  nice  brown,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  Broth ;  let  it  simmer 
twenty  minutes ;  put  in  a  basin  one  tablespoonfiil  of  Curry 
Powder  (No.  455,)  one  of  Flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Salt; 
mix  it  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  put  it  in  the  stewpan,  and 
shake  it  well  about  till  it  boils ;  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutee 

longer ;  just  before  it  is  dished  up,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half 

I.I  ^      έΨι-  -      έΨι  .  έΑΦ 

t  This  Suet  h  not  to  be  waited,~when  it  come*  from  the  oven┬τ  tftke  out  the  Beef, 
and  ttraiB  die  contents  of  the  pui  through  m  liere,έΑΦ let  it  itand  till  it  is  cold,-  '*^  '^ 
clarify  the  fiitat  diivctcd  ia  (Noi  93,}  and  it  wUl  4o  (brfrying^  &c┬╗ 


KABE  IHSRB8.  323 

SL  LemoD,  add  one  good  tablaspoonful  of  melted  Butter,  tnd  it 
is  ready. 

Obs^ έΑΦ Curry  is  made  ako  with  Sweeihrea^^Breast  t^ 
Veal έΑΦ Veal  CuikU-^Laanlh^MuUon  or  Pork  Chop$ έΑΦ Lobster 
'^Turbot έΑΦ Soles έΑΦ ┬μe28*^ Oysters,  A'c.  prepared  as  abore,  or 
enveloped  in  (No.  348.) 

Obs."έΑΦ This  a  very  savoury,  noorishing,  and  economical 
-dbhy  and  a  valuable  variety  at  a  moderate  table.     See  (338) 

Stewed  Rump  Steak.  (No.  500.) 

For  two  pounds  of  Steaks,  if  you  fear  they  will  not  eat  ten- 
der, beat  them  well, έΑΦ line  the  bottom  of  a  three  quart  Stewpan 
with  slices  of  fattish  Ham,  or  Bacon,  and  on  this  lay  the  Steaks, 
(which  should  be  nicely  trimmed  and  shaped  ;)  just  cover  them' 
with  water,  a  dozen  corns  of  Allspice,  the  same  of  Black  Pep- 
per, the  red  part  of  a  Carrot,  a  little  bundle  of  Savoury  aiid 
Parsley,  a  large  Onion  with  half  a  dozen  Cloves  stuck  in  it, 
and  a  head  of  Celery ;  cover  them  close,  and  let  tUem  simmer 
gently  about  an  hour  aud  a  half,  according  to  their  thickness; 
if  they  are  thin  Steaks,  an  hour  may  be  enough ;  take  care  the 
Meat  does  not  go  to  ragSy  by  doing  toofast,  or  toofnuch. 

When  the  Steaks  are  tender,  take  them  up,  flour  them,  aud 
fry  tbero,  only  just  to  brown  them,  in  an  ounce  of  Butter ;  make 
some  thickening  with  an  ounce  of  Butter  and  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  Flour ;  put  it  into  your  sauce ;  stir  it  well  together 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  adding  thereto  a  tablespoonful  of  Claret, 
or  Port  wine,  the  same  of  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  Salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
Black  Pepper:  dfsh  your  Steaks,  and  strain  your  Sauce  to  t^em. 

Veal  Cutlets  or  Mutton  Chops  may  be  done  the  same 
way,  or  as  Veal  Olives  (No,  518.) 

Obs. έΑΦ This  is  generally  a  second  course  dish,  and  is  usually 
made  too  rich, έΑΦ and  only  fit  to  re-excite  an  Appetite  already 
satiated.  .  Our  endeavour  is  to  combine  agreeable  savouriness 
with  snbstantial  nourishment ;  those  who  wish  to  enrich  our 
Receipt  may  easily  add  Mushrooms, έΑΦ Wine, έΑΦ Anchovy,έΑΦ 
Cayenne, έΑΦ Bay  leavps,  &c. 

Another  fVay  of  Slewing  Rump  Steaks. 

The  Rump  Steaks  *nusi  be  a  little  thicker  than  for  broiling, 
έΑΦ but  let  them  be  all  the  same  thickness^  or  some  will  be  done 
too  little,  and  others  too  much. 


I 

1 


324  MADE   0ISHK8* 

Pat  an  ounce  of  Butter  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  Oakma  ; 
when  the  Butter  is  meUed,  lay  io  the  Rump  Steaka,  lettbeoi 
etand  oTer  a  slow  fire  for  fire  mtoutes,  tbeo  turn  tbem,  and  let 
the  other  side  of  them  fry  five  minutes  longer.     Have  mdy 
boiled  a  pint  of  Button  Onions ;  tbey  will  take  from  half  an 
hour  to  an  hour ;  put  the  liquor  tbey  were  boiled  in  to  tie 
Steaks  ;  if  there  is  not  enough  of  it  to  cover  them,  add  broth, 
or  boiling  water,  to  make  enough  for  that  purpose,  with  a  dox* 
en  corns  of  Black  Pepper  and  a  little  Salt,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer very  gently  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  then  strain  off 
as  much  of  the  liquor  (about  a  piut  and  a  half)  as  you  tbiok 
will  make  the  sauce. 

Put  two  ounces  of  Butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  it  is  melted, 
stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  stiff  paste,  add  tbe 
liquor  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  up  for  fifteen  minutes;  skim  it, and 
strain  it ;  serve  up  the  Steaks  with  the  Onions  round  the  dish┬╗ 
and  pour  the  Qravy  over. 

O&s. έΑΦ Rump  Steaks  are  in  best  condition  from  Michael- 
mas to  Lady*day.  To  ensure  their  being  tender,  gwe  th 
Butcher  three  or  four  days  notice  of  your  wish  for  them. 

(No.  501  έΑλ)     Broiled  Rump  Steak  unih  Onion  Gravy, 

See  also  (No.  %99.) 

Peel  aud  slice  two  large  Onions:  put  them  into  a  quart 
stewpan.  with  two  tablespoonaful  of  water,  cover  the  stewpan 
close,  and  set  it  oo  a  slow  fire  till  the  water  has  boiled  away, 
and  the  Onions  have  got  a  little  browned, έΑΦ then  add  half  a 
pint  of  good  Brbth:^,  and  boil  tbe  Onions  till  they  are  tender; 
strain  the  Broth  from  them,  and  chop  them  very  fine ;  tbicfcea 
the  Broth  with  Flour  and  Butter,  and  season  it  with  Mush- 
room Catsup,  and  pepper  and  salt ;  put  the  Onion  into  it,  and> 
let  it  boil  gently  for  five  minutes,  and  pour  it  over  a  Brmled 
Ruinp  Steak.  If,  instead  of  Brotb,  you  use  good  Beef  Gravy, 
it  will  be  superlative, 

%έβο  Stewed  Cucumber  (No.  135,)  is  another  agreeaUe  oc* 
companiment  to  Rump  Steaks, 

ALAMODE  B^EF,  or  VEAL.    (No.  502.) 

In  tbe  hundred  and  ei<jhly  volumes  on  Cookery,  we  patient* 
ly  pioneered  through,  before  we  encountered  tbe  tremendous  la- 

t  If  vou  hare  no  Broth, put  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  thicken  it  as  in  th┬τ  above  K* 
ceipt.  and  juK  befiire  you  give  it  theiact  boil  op,  add  to  it  a  lai^  ipooofol  of  Muik* 
oom  Catsup  and^  if  you  like,  the  ttine  quantity  of  Port  Wiar. 


MADE    DISHES*  325 

hour  and  expense  of  proving  the'  Receipts  of  our  predecessors , 
έΑΦ andsetabout  recording  these  results  of  our  own  Sxperi- 
ments, έΑΦ we  could  not  find  one  Receipt  that  approximated 
to  any  thing  like  an  accurate  description  of  the  way  in  which 
this  excellent  dish  is  actually  dressed  in  the  best  Alamode  Beef 
Shops ; έΑΦ from  whence,  of  course,  it  was  impossible  to  obtain 
any  information  : έΑΦ however,  after  all,  the  whole  of  the  secret 
seems  to  be  thickening  the  gravy  of  Beef  that  has  been  very 
slowly^  stewed,  and  flavouring  it  with  Bay  leaves  and  Allspice. 

Take  about  eleven  pounds  of  the  Mouse-Buttock, έΑΦ or  Clod 
of  Beef, έΑΦ or  a  Blade  Bone, έΑΦ or  the  Sticking  piece;  or  the  like 
weight  of  the  Breast  of  Veal ;  cut  it  into  pieces  of  thre6  or  four 
ounces  each  ;  put  two  or  three  ounces  of  Beef  drippings,  and 
a  couple  of  large  onions,  into  a  large  deep  stewpan ;  as  soon  as 
it  is  quite  hot,  flour  the  meat,  put  it  in  the  stewpan,  keep  stir^ 
ring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  whea  it  has  been  on  about  ten 
minutes,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  keep  doing  so  till  you  have 
stirred  as  much  as  you  think  will  thicken  it,  then  cover  it  with 
boiling  water,  (it  will  take  about  a  gallon,)  adding  it  by  degrees 
and  stirring  it  together  ;  skim  it  when  it  boils,  and  then  put  in 
one  drachm  of  ground  Black  Pepper,  two  of  Allspice,  and  four 
Bay  leaves ;  set  the  pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  or  at  a  distance 
over  it,  and  let  it  stew  very  slowly  for  about  three  hours;  when 
you  find  the  meat  suflSciently  tender,  put  it  into  a  tureen,  and 
it  is  ready  for  table. 

It  is  customary  to  send  up  with  it  a  nice  Salad;  sea  No.  372. 

Obs. έΑΦ Here  is  a  savoury  and  substantial  meal,  almost  as 
cheap  as  the  ┬μgg- Broth  of  the  Miser έΑΦ who  fed  his  Valet 
with  the  Water  in  which  his  Egg  was  boiled,έΑΦ or  as  the  'έΑλ  Pot' 
tage  a  la  Pierre^  a  la  SbWatJ,"  mentioned  by  Giles  Rose  in  i\\a 
4tb  page  ofhis  dedication  of  the  **  pgrfbct  schooi^  of  in┬τ 

STRUCTION  for  THE  OFFICERS  OP  THE  MOUTH."      **  TwO  Sol- 

diers  were  minded  to  have  a  Soup ;  the  first  of  them  coming 

t  **  It  most  be  allowed  to  invte  gently  Ibr  έΑλerenl  boun,  inaceeiuble  to  tbe  ambi- 
ent air,  and  on  the  even  ┬τDd  iierteTerioff  beat  of  chareoal  in  the  furnace  or  ttoTew 
After  baTing  lolled  itself  in  its  own  exudktionii  and  the  ditsolntion  of  iits  aoxillaaet, 
H  may  appear  at  table  with  a  powerfol  claim  to  approbation."έΑΦ TVi&e/Ja  Ciboria  p.  47. 

t  '*  έΑλ  C*e*t  la  Soupe,*  Myi  onie  of  tbe  best  of  ptoTetbs,  *  quifaiU  le  SeldatJ*  <  It  it 
the  Soup  that  makes  the  Soldier."  Excellent  as  our  troops  arc  in  the  field,  tbera 
cannot  be  a  aiore  unquestionable  fact,  than  their  immense  inferioritT  to  the  Freneh 
in  the  business  of  Cookery.  The  English  soldier  lays  his  piece  of  ration  beef  ac 
once  on  the  coals,  by  which  means,  the  one  and  the  better  half  is  lostir-┬τnd  the  other 
bamt  to  a  cinder.  Whereas  six  French  troopers  flin|[  their  messes  into  the  same 
pot,  and  extracta  delicious  Soup,  ten  times  more  nutntiqut  tfMi  the  simple  4Ef^< 
Aon  Id  ever  be."έΑΦ A(acilw90<f?┬τ  l^dinburgh  Sfagaxinff 

28 


I 


336  MAPI  DISHBS. 

ioto  a  home,  and  asking  for  all  tbiags  necessafy  for  tbe  mal:* 
10^  of  ooe,  was  as  sood  told  ttiat  he  could  bare  none  of  tbose 
tbiogs  there,  whereupon  he  went  away ;έΑΦ ^tbe  other,  eomiDgio 
with  a  Stooe  in  his  koapsack,  asked  only  for  a  Pot  to  boil  fan 
stone  in,  that  he  might  make  a  dish  of  broth  of  it  for  bis  Sopper, 
which  was  qoiekly  granted  him ;  when  the  stone  had  boiled  s 
little  while^  he  asked  for  a  small  piece  of  Meat  or  Bacon,  and  a 
few  Herbs  and  Roots,  See.  jast  merely  to  gi?e  it  a  bit  of  a  ┬μb^ 
έΨ╝oor ;  till,  by  little  and  little,  be  got  all  things  reqaistte,  and  so 
made  an  excellent  Pottage  of  his  Stone.**  See  068.  to  (No.49X) 

Onioni,  Vfv***  AlU┬╗ici┬╗.  and  Bay  Icsvct  o    9 
11  poosdi  of  tbSek  ttaak  Beef  .74 

Mtdetemqinrta      ..77     LcTliirtenpaceyerqiMit* 

To  Per  Bbbf, έΑΦ ^Veal, έΑΦ Gamb,  ob  PeuLTRT,  Sec  (N┬τ.  503.) 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  Gravy  Beef,  rub  it  well  with  an 
oanee  of  Saltpetre^  and  then  a  handful  of  common  Salt;  let  it 
iay  in  Salt  about  three  days,  rubbing  it  well  each  day,  then  put 
it  into  an  earthen  pan,  or  stone  jar  that  will  just  hold  it^  cover 
it  with  the  skin  and  fat  that  you  cut  ofif,  and  pour  in  half  a  pmt 
of  water ;  cover  it  dose  with  paste,  and  set  it  in  a  rmy  slow 
oven  foraboot  four  hours : έΑΦ or  prepare  it  as  directed  (No.  495^) 

When  it  comes  from  the  Oven,  drain  the  gravy  from  it  iato 
a  basio,  pick  out  the  gristles  a^d  tbe  skins,  mince  it  fine,  moistea 
it  with  a  little  of  the  Gravy  you  poured  from  the  meat,  which 
is  a  very  strong  Consomme^  (but  rather  salt,)  and  it  vrill  make 
excellent  Peas  Soup,  or  Browning,  see  (No.  323,)  pound  tbe 
meat  patiently  and  thoroughly  in  a  mortar  with  some  fresh  BsN 
ter+,  till  it  is  a  fine  paste,  (to  make  Potted  Meats  smooth έΑΦ ibsrs 
is  nothing  equal  to  plenty -of  Elbow  grease) έΑΦ seasoning  it  (by 
degrees  as  you  are  beating  it)  with  a  little  Black  Pepper  bbA 
Allspice,έΑΦ or  Cloves  pounded, έΑΦ or  Mace, έΑΦ or  grated  Natmsg. 

Put  it  in  pots,  press  it  down  as  close  as  possible,  and  cover 
it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  with  Clarified  Butter  f^'to  prepare 
'  which,  see  reeeipt  (No.  259.)     Keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

06s. έΑΦ ^You  may  mince  a  little  Ham  or  Bacon, έΑΦ or  an  An- 
chovy,έΑΦSweet  or  Savoury  Herb8,^-or  a  Shallot,  and  a  litlle 
Tarragon, έΑΦ Chervil,έΑΦ ^r  Burnet,  Sec,  and  pound  them  with 


t  Tbe  lets  Qnrf  or  Batter|im4  the  nttre  beatings  the  better  will  be  yvvr  Potfedl 
Beefttfyon.wkk  it  to  keep  ;^if  for  immediMeeetinif,  joo  vmj  put  in  a  teye  yra- 
portion  ofsi┬╗T7  or  butter,  as  the  meet  will  peund  eaiier,  and  look  mA  latte 
ncUow. 


έΨι&:-  -.".S.m'^^^S^^' 


32C 


MADE    DISHES* 


PottedorgratedHam,  (No.609.)|Curiy  Powder,    Zcrt,    MusTard. 
Ditto,  or  frrated  Tongue.  I      Pepper  and  Salt,  arc  added  oc- 

Ar.rhovy  (Noi.  434  and  436.)         I      casionalJj. 
Gernan  Sausage.  | 

BubbU  and  Squeak,  or  fried  Beef  and  Cabbage,  (No.  505.) 

^  When  'midst  the  frying  Pan,  in  accents  savage. 
The  Beef  so  surly,  quarrels  with  the  Cabbage.*' 
┬τ      DuMinor. 


BEEF,     CABBAGE. 


^ri 


iii^S 


C  ABBAGE,    B      E  *  E      F. 
or  G  ^  Major, 


Jl_ 

.  For  ibis,  as  for  a  Hash,  select  those  parts  of  the  joint  that 
have  been  least  dooe ; έΑΦ it  is  generally  made  with  slices  of  cold 
boiled  salted'^Beef,  sprinkled  with  a  little  Pepper,  and  just 
lightly  bro\y{ied  with  a  bit  of  Butter  in  a  frying-pan  :  if  ii  is 
fried  too  much  it  wiU  be  hdrd. 

Boil  a  Cabbage,  squeeze  it  quite  dry,  and  chop  it  small ; 
take  the  Beef  out  of  the  frying-pan,  anci  lay  the  cabbage  in  i( ; 
sprinkle  a  little  j^epper  and  salt  over  it ;  keep  the  pan  moving 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  ;  lay  the  Cabbage  in  the  middle 
of  a  dish,  and  the  Meat  round  it. 

For  Sauce,  see  (No.  356,)  or  (No.  328.) 

Hashed  Beef  and  Roast  Beef  Bones  Broiled,     (No.  506.) 

To  hash  Beef,  see  Receipt  (Nos.  484,  5,  and  6.  Nob.  360, 
484,  and  486.) 

The  best  part  to  hash  is  th&  Fillet  or  Inside  of  the  Sirloin, 
and  the  good  bousewise  will  always  endeavour  to  preserve  it 


} 


MADE  D1SBE8.  329 

┬τotir%for  tbw  purpose.  See  06s.  to  (No.  19,)  and  Mock  Hare 
(No.  67*.) 

Roast  Beef  Bones  furnish  a  very  relishing  Luncheon,  or 
Supper,  prepared  in  the  following  manner,  with  Poached  Eggs 
(No.  546,)  or  Fried  Eggs  (No.  545,)  or  Mashed  Potatoes 
(No.  106,)  as  accompaniments. 

Divide  the  Bones,  leaving  good  pickings  of  meat  on  each ; έΑΦ 
score  them  in  squares,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  on  them,  and 
sprinkle  them  with '  pepper  and  salt ;  put  them  in  a  dish,  set 
them  in  a  Dutch  Oven  for  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
according  to  the  thickneas  of  the  meat,  keep  turning  them  .till 
they  are  quite  hot,  and  hrowo  or  broil  them,  on  the  gridiron. 
Brown  them,  but  donH  hum  tkem  black.  For  Sauce,  (Nos. 
355,  or  356.) 

Ojt-  Cheek  Slewed.  (No.  507,) 

Prepare  this  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  clean  it,  and 
put  it  iulo  soft  water  just  warm,  let  it  lay  three  or  four  hours, 
ihen^  pot  it  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  all  night ; έΑΦ nest 
day  wipe  it  clean,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  just  cover  it  with 
water ; έΑΦ skim  it  well  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  then  put  two 
whole  Onions,  stick  two  or  three  Cloves  into  each,  three  Tur- 
nips quartered,  a  couple  of  Carrots  sliced,  two  Bay  leaves,  and 
twenty-four  corns  of  Allspice,  a  he^d  of  Celery,  and  a  bundle 
of  Sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt :  to  these,  tb  ose  who  are  for  a 
"  Havi  Godf^  may  add  Cayenne  and  Garlick,  in  such  propor- 
tions as  the  palate  that  requires  them  may  desire. 

Let  it  stew  gently  till  perfectly  tender,i  e.  about  three  hours  ; 
then  take  out  the  Cheek,  divide  it  into  handsome  pieces,  fit  to 
help  at  table ;  skim  and  strain  the  gravy  ;  melt  an  ounce  and  a 
half  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  stir  into  it  as  much  flour  as  it  will 
take  op,  mix  with  it  by  degrees  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  gravy, 
add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  Basil,  Tarragon,  or  Elder  vinegar, 
or  the  like  quantity  of  Mushroom,  or  Walnut  catsup,  or  Cavice 
or  Port  wine,  and  give  it  aboil. 

Serve  up  in  a  soup  er  ragout  dish,  or  make  it  into  Barley 
┬μroth  (No.  204.) 

Ofcs. έΑΦ This  is  a  very  economical,  Dourishiog,  and  savoury 
meal.     See  Ox-Cheek  Soup  (No.  239,)  and  Calfs-Juad 
Hashed  (  No.  520.) 
28* 


330  XABX  DISBSS. 

Ox'TaUs  Stewed,  (No.  508.) 

DiTid*  them  into  joints,  wash  them,  parboil  them,  set  tbea 
oo  to  stew  ID  joet  water  eeough  to  cover  theoB, έΑΦ a  ad  dre┬╗ 
them  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  directed  in   (No┬τ  bSl^ 
Stewed  GKblets,  for  which  they  are  an  excellent  sobslitate. 

N.  B.  See  Qz-Tail  Soup  (No.  240.) 

P^ed  Ham  or  Tongue.        ,  (No^  MO.) 

Cat  a  pound  of  the  lean  of  oold  boiled  Haan,  or  Tongue, 
and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  oi  the  f^t^ 
or  with  fresh  batter,  (in  the  proportion  of  aboot  two  ounces  to 
a  pound,)  till  it  is  a  fine  paste,  (some  season  it  by  degrees  with 
a  little  pounded  mace  or  allspice  ;)  put  it  dose  down  in  pols 
for  that  purpose,  and  cover  it  with  Clarified  Butter  (No.  259,) 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  let  it  stand  one  night  in  a  cool 
)4aoe.  Send  it  up  in  the  pot,  or  cut  out  in  thin  slices.  See 
O&s.  on  No.  503. 

Easktd  VeaL  (No.  51 1. \ 

Prepare  it  as  directed  in  (No.  484 ;).  and  to  make  Saute  to 
warm  Veal,  see  (No.  361.) 

Hashed  or  Minted  VeaL  (No.  511*.) 

To  make  a  Hash,  cut  the  Meat:{:  into  slices;έΑΦ io  pnyMfe 
MINCBO  Ybal,  mince  it  as  iiqe  as  possible,  (do  not' chop  it┬τ) 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  lew  spoonsful  of  Veal  or  Muttoa 
Broth,  or  make  some  with  the  Bones  and  Trimmings,  as  order- 
ed for  Veal  Cutlets,  see  (No.  SK),)  or  (Na  361,)  a  little  Lemon 
peel  minced  fine,  a  spoonful  of  milk,  or  cream  ;  tbickefi  with 
butter  and  flour,  and  season  it  with  sctlt,  a  tablespoonful  of  Le┬╗ 
mon  pickloyor  Basil  wjne  (No.  397,)  &c.  or  a.pinch  of  Curry 
powder. 

*┬τ*  Vy^^  ^^  ^^  Cr^am,  beat  tip  the  yolks  of  a  covfle<f 
Eggs  with  a  litde  Milk :  line  the  efisn,  and  gairnish  with  stp- 
pets  of  lightly  toasted  breath 

Obs. έΑΦ Minced  Veal  n^kes  t^  very  pretty  dish,  put  into  scol- 
lop shells  and  bread-crumbed  over,  and  sprinkled  with  a  littie 
butter,  and  browned  in  a  Dutch  Oven,  ^r  si  cheese  I4>as(er┬τ 

To  make  an  exce^ent  Ragomt-cfCkM  Ved.   (No.  5i^) 

Either  a  Neck,έΑΦ Loin, έΑΦ or  Fillet  of  Veal,  will  fimMiAli^ 
excellent  Bsgout,  with  a  very  little  expense  or  trouble. 

4  See  Beccipt  to  luub  Mutton  (fJo┬╗,^Of>  And  sei,  moA  iiQ,4B*0 


)EA1┬╗D┬╗HC8.  331 

Col  the  Veal  mio  handsome  cutlets ;  pat  a  ptece  of  hutter 
elean  dripping  iDto  a  fryingpan  ;  as  sooo  as  it  is  hot,  flour 
jSLod  fry  the  veaVdf  a  light  brown  ;  tafee  it  out,  and  if  you  have 
no  gravy  ready,  fnaka  some  as  directed  in  the  note  to  (No. 
;&17,)  or  put  a  jHOt  el  boiling  water  into  the  fryingpan,  give  it 
a.  boil  up  for  a  minute,  and  strain  it  into  a  basin  while  you 
XBake  some  thickening  in  the  following  manner : έΑΦ Put  about  an 
ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan;  as  soon  as  it  melts,  mix  with  iέΓυ 
.as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up  ;    stir  it  over  the  Are  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  gradually  add  to  it  the  gravy  you  made  in  the  fry┬τ 
iDgpan  ;  let  them  simmer  together  for  ten  minutes  (till  tbor** 
oughly  incorporated);  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace, 
-and  a  wineglass   of  mushroom  catsup,  or  wine ;   strain   it 
through  a  tammis,  to  the  meat ;  and  Uew  very  gently  till  the 
^xneat  is  thoroughly  warmed.     If  you  have  any  ready  boiled  Ba- 
uson, cut  H  Jo  slices,  and  put  it  to  warm  with  the  meat,  or  (Nob. 
^26,  or  627.) 

Veal  Cutlets,  see  (No.  90,)  &c. 

Breast  of  Ved  Stewed.  (No.  6  U.)  * 

A  Breast  of  Veal,  stewed  till  quite  tender,  and  smothered 
^hh  onion  sauce,  is  an  excellent  dish,  or  in  the  gravy  ordered 
in  the  Note  to  (No.  617.) 

Breast  cf  Veal  Bagout  (No.  617.). 

Take  off  the  under  bone,  and  cut  the  breast  in  half,  length- 
"ways ;  divide  it  into  pieces,  about  four  inches  long,  by  two 
inches  wide  i.  e.  in  handsome  pieces,  not  too  large  to  help  at 
once  : έΑΦ put  about  two  ounces  of  Butter  into  a  fryingpan,  and 
fry  the  Veal  till  it  is  a  light  brown:^,  then  put  Ft  into  a  Btewpan 
with  veal  broth, έΑΦ or  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  cover  it,  a 
'bundle  of  sweet  marjoram,  common  or  lemon  thyme,  and  pars* 
ley,  with  four  cloves,  or  a  couple  of  bla<|es  of  pounded  mace, 
three  young  onions,  or  one  eld  one,  a  roll  of  lemon  peel,  a 
dozen  corns  of  allspice  bruised,  and  a  teaapoonful  of  salt:  cov- 
ev  it  close,  and  let  it  all  simmer  very  gently  till  the  whole  is  ten- 
der, i.  e.  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half, έΑΦ if  it  is  very  thick,  two 

%  Some  Codks  matetbe  fovnf^  Sec.  in  Htm  faMvm'mK  tamuan  :*SHee  έΑλ  larm  On. 
km,  for  it  brown,  drain  nil  tat  from  it.  and  put  into  aMnrnnn  with  a  boneh  of  Sweat 
Herbir  a  eoupla  ┬τf  dozen  bcrriea  of  Albpioe,  game  of  Slaek  Pepper,  three  blades  of 
Knee,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water :  cover  down^cloie.  and  boil┬τentiT  for  h*ip... 


4l┬τar  in  ateaenpfViiof  cold  water,  mix  eome  of  the  gsary  with  it,  andUMo^'pour  H 
into  the  stewpan.  "^ 

^  K.  B.  Thm  piBts  of  tfuU  :C>ow┬τ  iveao jcue  ase ┬τHAetiaei  added,  when  4be  Veal 
┬τn4┬╗ot.iok 


332  MADE   DISHB5. 

hours ;  tbeo  strain  off  as  much  (about  a  quart)  of  the  grarf, 
9S  you  thiuk  you  will  want,  info  a  basin  j  set  the  stewpao, 
nviih  the  meat,  &c.  in  it,  by  the  fire  to  keep' hot.  To  Thsmkai 
iht  Gravy  you  have  taken  out,  put  an  ounce  aod  a  haU  of 
butter  into  a  clean  stewpan ;  when  it  is  mehed,  stir  in  as  muck 
flour  as  it  will  take,  add  the  gravy  by  degrees,  season  it  nvitb 
salt,  let  it  boil  ten  ipinules,  skim  it  well,  and  season  it  with  t?ro 
tablespoonsful  of  white  wine,  one  of  mushroom  catsup,  and 
same  of  lemon  juice ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready-:  now 
put  the  Veal  into  a  ragout  dish,  and  strain  the  gravjr  through 
a  fine  sieve  to  it. 

Or, 

By  keeping  the  Meat  whole^  you  will  better  preserve   ibe 
succulence  of  it. 

Put  the  Veal  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter  and 
two  whole  onions,  (such  as  weigh  about  two  ounces  each,)  pat 
it  on  the  fire,  and  fry  it  about  five  minutes,  then  cover  it  with 
boiling  water;  when  it  boils,  skim  it,  then   put  in  two  small 
blades  of  mace,  a  dozen  berries  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black 
pepper ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  and 
a  half:  then  strain  as  much  of  the  gravy  as  you  think  you  will 
want  into  a  basin,  put  tbe  stewpan  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot.     To 
thicken  it,  put  an. ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  into  a  clean  slew- 
pan  ;  when  it  is  meltec|,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take, 
add  tbe  gravy  by  degrees,  season  it  with  salt,  and  when  it  boils, 
it  is  ready.      Put  the  Veal  on   a  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy 
throogh  a  fine  sieve  over  it. 

06s.έΑΦ -Forcemeat  Balls,  see  (No.  336,)  &c.  TruflHes,  Mp- 
relis.  Mushrooms,  end  Curry  powder,  &c.  are  sometimes  added, 
and  Rashers  of  Bacon  or  Ham  (Nos.  526  and  527,  or  Fried 
Pork  Sausages  (No.  83.) 

N.  B.  These  are  niee  dishes  in  tbe  Pease  season. 

Scotch  Collops.  (No.  517*.) 

Tbe.  Veal  must  be  cut  the  same  as  for  Cutlets,  in  pieces 
about  as  big  as  a  crown-piece  :  flour  them  well,  and  fry  them 
of  light  brown  in  fresh  butter  ;  lay  them  in  a  stewpan,  dredge 
them  over  with  fit)ur,  and  then  put  in  as  much  boiling  water  as 
will  well  cover  the  veal ;  pour  this  in  by  degrees,  shaking  the 
stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  ;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  take  off 
the  scum,  put  In  one  OQion^  a  blade  of  mace,  and  let  it  sim- 


MADE  DISHES*  333 

va^T  very  gently  fortbree  quartern  of  an  hour ;    lay  them  on  a 
disb,  and  pour  the  gravy  through  a  sieve  over  them. 

N.  B,  Lemon  Juice έΑΦ and  Peel, έΑΦ Wine, έΑΦ Ca(8up,  &c.,┬τr6 
sometimes  added  ;  and  Currt  Powder,  and  you  have  Currt 

COLLOPS. 

Veal  Olives.  (No.  518.) 

Cut  haif  a  dozen  slices  off  a  Fillet  of  Veal,  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  as  long  and  square  as  you  can;  flat  them  with  a 
chopper,  and  rub  them  over  wiib  an  egg  that  has  been  beaten  on 
a  plate  ;  cut  some  fat  bacqn  as  thin  as  possible,  the  same  size 
as  the  veal,  lay  it  on  the  veal,  and  rub  it  with  a  little  of  the  egg : 
inake  a  little  veal  forcemeat,  see  receipt  (No.  375,)  and  spread 
it  very  thin  over  the  bacon  ;  roll  up  the  olives  tight,  rub  them 
with  the  egg,  and  then  roll  them  in  fine  bread-crumbs  ;  put 
them  on  a  lark  spit,  and  roast  them  at  a  brisk  fire ;  they  will 
take  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Rump  Steaks  are  sometimes  dressed  this  way. 
Mushroom  Sauce,  brown,  (Nos.  305,  or  306,)  or  Beef  Gra- 
ty,  (No  329.)     Vide  chapter  on  Sauces,  &c. 

Cold  Calf  8  Head,  Hashed.  (No.  519) 

See  06a.  to  boiled  Calf's  head  (No.  10.) 

(No.  520.)  Calf  8  Head  Hashed,  or  Rago&t,  see  (No.  247.) 

Wash  a  Calfs  head,  and  boil  it,  see  (No.  10)  ;  boil  one  half 
a\\  but  enough,  so  that  it  may  be  soon  quite  done  when  put  into 
the  hash  to  warm, έΑΦ the  other  quite  tender :  from  this  half  take 
out  the  bones;  score  it  superficially,  beat  up  an  egg,  put  it  over 
the  head  with  a  paste-brush,  and  strew  over  it  a  little  grated 
Bread  and  Lemon  Peel,  and  Thyme  and  Parsley,  chopped 
very  fine,  or  in  powder,  then  Bread-crumbs,  and  put  it  in  the 
Dutch  oTjn  to  brown. 

Cut  the  other  half  head  into  handsome  slicee,  and  put  it  into 
a  $tewpan  with  a  quart  of  Gravy  (No.  319,)  or  Turtle  Sauce 
(No.  343,)  with  Forcemeat  balls  (Nos.  376,  380,)  Egg-balls, 
a  wineglass  of  white  Wine,  and  some  Catsup,  &c. ;  put  in  the 
meat,  let  it  warm  up  together,  and  skim  off  the  fat. 

Peel  the  Tongue,  and  send  it  up  with  Brains  round  it  as  a 
aide  dish,  as  directed  in  (No.  10,)  or  beat  them  up  in  a  basin 
with  a  spoonful  of  fiour,  two  eggs,  some  grated  lemon-peel, 
thyme,  parsley,  and  a  few  leaves  of  very  finely  minced  sage  ; 
rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar  with  pepper,  salt,  and  * 


334  MADS  BIftRtS* 

lerape  of  natmeg:    fry  them  (in  little  cakes)  a   very  li^u 
brown  ;  dish  up  the  hash,  with  the  htllf  bead  you  browned  ia 
the  middle,  and  garnish  with  crisp  or  curled  rashers  of  Bacon, 
fried  Bread  Sippels  (Nos.  319,  636,  and  537,)  and  the  Bnat 
Cakes. 

N.  B.  If  you  serve  the  Tongue  abd  Brains  as  a  side  dish ; 
(instead  of  garnishing  the  RagoiU  with  rashers  of  bacoo^  send 
up  a  piece  of  Bacon  as  a^ompanidn  for  it. 

Veal  Cutlets  Broiled  plain^  or  FuU^ressed.     (No.  521.) 

Divide  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  Veal  into  cutlets^  one  rib 
to  each, έΑΦ broil  them  plain,  or  make  some  fine  bread-crumbs  ;┬τέΑΦ - 
mince  a  little  parsley,  and  a  very  little  shallot,  as  smaU  aa  poaaw 
ble,  put  it  iato  a  clean  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  baiter,  and 
fry  it  for  a  minute, έΑΦ then  put  on  a  pkte  the  yolks  of  a  couplo 
of  ┬μggs,  mix  the  herbs,  &c.  with  it,  aod  season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt:έΑΦ dip  the  Cutlets  into  this  mixture,  and  then  into  Uie 
Bread ; έΑΦ lay  th^m  on  a  Gridiron  over  a  clear  slow  fire  till  ihey 
are  nicely  browned  on  both  sides, έΑΦ they  will  take  about  an 
hour :  send  up  with  them  a  few  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon  fried, 
or  done  in  the  Dutch  oven.  See  (Nos.  5ji6  and  bVly)  and  Imlf 
a  pint  of  (No.  843,  or  No.  356.) 

Km^U  of  Veal  to  Rag^&L  (No.  532.> 

Cut  a  knuckle  of  Veal  into  sliced  about  half  an  inch  thick  ; 
pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them  ;  fry  them  a  light  brown  ;  put  the 
trimmings  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  bone  broke  in  several  pla- 
ces ;  an  onion  sliced,  a  bead  of  celery,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  two  blades  of  bruised  Mace  :  pour  in  warm  water  enoi^ 
to  cover  them  about  an  inch  :  cover  the  pot  close,  and  let  it 
stew  very  gently  for  a  couple  of  hours:  strain  it,  and  then 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  catsup, 
a  glass  of  wine,  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  give  it  a  boil  up,- 
and  strain  into  a  clean  stewpan :  put  in  the  meat,  make  it  hot, 
and  serve  up. 

06s. έΑΦ If  Celery  is  not  to  be  bad,  u^e  a  Carrot  instead,  or 
flavour  it  with  Cefery  Seed┬╗  or  (No.  409.) 

Knuckle  of  Veal  stewed  iwftA  Rice┬╗     (No.  6^3.) 

As  boiled  knuckle  of  Veal  cold  is  not  a  very  favourite  relish 
with  the  generality,  cut  off  some  Steaks  from  it,  which  you 
may  dress  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  or  (No.  d^l,)  and  leave 
the  Knuckle  no  larger  than  will  he  eaten  the  day  it  is  dressed. 


MjkPE  PIfiBES.  335 

Break  ifae  tibtak  bone,  \vash  it  cImd,  and  put  it  io  t  large  stew- 
pan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  an  Ooioo,  tw┬╗  blades  of  Mace, 
and  a  teaspoooful  of  Salt :  set  it  on  a  quick  fire ;  when  it 
boils,  take  eff  all  the  scum. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Rice,  put  it  into  the 
stewpan  with  tl^e  meat,  and  let  it  stew  very  gently  for  about 
two  hours':  put  the  Meat,  &c.  in  a  deep  dish,  and  (be  Rice 
ro^od  it. 

Send  up  Bacon  with  it.  Parsnips,  or  Greens,  and  finely 
SDinced  Parsley  and  Buttor  (No.  ^1.) 

Mr.  Gav*8  Receipt  to  Stew  a  Knudde  of  Veal,    (Ko.524.) 

TaM  A  knuckle  of  V┬τal ; 
Ifou  may  buy  it,  or  itcal ; 
la  a  few  pieces  cut  it, 
iaa  stewinjf  pan  pat  it ; 
Salt,  pepper,  aufl  mace, 

Muf  t  season  this  knuckle ; 
Then,  what's  joined  to  a  place* 

With  other  herbs  muckle  ', 
That  which  kUrd  King  WUlf 
And  what  never  stands  stillf ; 
Some  sprig^s  of  the  bed|| 
Where  children  are  bred,  / 

Which  macbyou  will  mend,  if 
Both  spioage  and  endive 
And  lettuce  and  beet. 
With  marygold  me6t. 
^t  no  water  at  all 
For  it  maketh  things  small, 
Which,  lest  it  should  happen, 
A'  close  cover  clap  on  : 
Put  this  pot  of  Wood's  metal┬πr 
In  a  boiling  hot  kettle  ; 
And  there  let  it  be, 

(Mark  the  doctrine  I  teach,) 
About,  let  me  see. 

Thrice  as  long  as  you  preach.? 
So  skimming  the  fat  off, 
Say  grace  with  your  hat  off, 
0 1  then  with  what  rapture 
Will  it  fill  Dean  and  Chapter  ! 


έΑλ  Volgo,  saUtry,  t  Suppwed  torreU 

i  This  is,  by  Dr.  Bentley,  thought  to  be  time,  or  thymtt. 

0  Panley* 

┬π  or  thfa  composition,  see  the  works  of  the  copper  farthing  dean* 

<|  Which  we  suppose  cohenesr  foor  hours. 


L 


336  MADE   DI6H┬μi┬╗┬τ 

SUeei  of  Ham  or  Bacon.  (No.  Si6.) 

Ham,  or  Bacon,  may  be  yWeJ,  or  broiled  oo  agnd&roa 
over  a  clear  fire,έΑΦ or  toasted  with  a  fork ; έΑΦ take  care  to  slko 
it  of  the  same  tbickoess  in  every  part. 

If  yoa  wish  it  curled,  cot  it  ia  slices  about  two  inclm 
long,  (if  longer,  the  outside  will  be  done  too  much,  before  the 
inside  is  done  enough  ;)  roll  it  up,  and  put  a  little  woodea 
skewer  through  it ;  put  it  in  a  Cheese*toaster,  or  Datcfa-oreo, 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  turning  it  as  it  gets  crisp. 

This  is  considered  the  handsomest  way  of  droasiag  Bacon  r 
but  we  like  it  best  uncurled, έΑΦ because  it  is  crisper,  and  mora 
equally  done. 

06s. έΑΦ Slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon  should  not  be  more  iban 
half  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  will  eat  much  more  mellow 
if  soaked  in  hot  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  ┬τod  then  dnad 
in  a  cloth,  before  they  are  broiled,  Ssc 

Relishing  Rashers  of  Azcon.  (No.  527.) 

If  you  haye  any  Cold  Bacony  you  may  make  a  very  nice  dish 
of  it  by  cutting  it  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ; 
grate  some  crust  of  bread,  as  directed  for  Ham,  see  (No.  14,) 
and  powder  them  well  with  it  on  both  sides  ;  lay  the  rashers 
in  a  Cheese-toaster, έΑΦ they  will  be  browned  on  one  side  ia 
about  three  minutes  : έΑΦ turn  them  and  do  the  other. 

Obs, έΑΦ These  are  a  delicious..┬τccompaoiment  to  poached,  or 
fried  Eggs : έΑΦ The  Qacon  having  beeiAoiledf  first,  is  extreme- 
ly tender  and  mellow. έΑΦ They  are  an  excellent  garnish  roaod 
Veal  Cutlets,  or  Sweet-breads,  or  Calfs-head  Hash,  or  Gteep 
Pease,  or  Beans,  &c. 

Hashed  Venison,  (No.  5^S.) 

If|  you  have  enough  of  its  own  Gravy  left,  it  is  preferable 
to  any  to  warm  it  up  in  : έΑΦ if  not,  take  some  of  the  Mutton 
Gravy  (No.  347,)  or  the  bones  and  trinimings  of  the  joiDt,(afler 
you  have  cut  off  all  the  handsome  slices  fou  can,  to  make  the 
hash  ;)  put  these  into  some  water,  and  stew  them  gently  for  an 
hour:  then  put  some  butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  melted, 
put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up  the  butter,  and  stir  it  well 
together ;  add  to  it,  by  degrees,  the  Gravy  you  have  been 
making  of  the  trimmings,  and  some  Red  Currant  Jelly,  give  it 
a  boil  up,  skim  it,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to 

t  To  Boil  Bacon,  (Vo.  13^ 


MADB  DISRtS.  337 

receive  the  Venison :   pot  It  in,  and  let  it  just  get  wann  :-^7/ 
you  let  it  bcilf  it  will  make  the  MecA  heatL 

Hashed  Hare.  (No.  529.) 

Cat  up  tbe  Hare  into  pieces,  fit  to  help  at  table,  and  divide 
the  joints  of  tbe  legs  and  sboulders,  and  set  them  by  ready. 

Put  the  trammings  and  gravy  you  have  left,  with  half  a  pint 
of  water,  (there  should  be  a  pint  of  liquor,)  and  a  tablespoon* 
fa!  of  Currant  Jelly,  into  a  dean  stewpan,  and  let  it  boil  gent- 
ly for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a 
basin,  and  pour  it  back  into  the  stewpan  ;  now  flour  tbe  Hare; 
pttt  it  into  the  gravy,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  till  the  Hare 
is  warm  (about  twenty  minutes,)  cut  the  Stuffing  into  slices, 
and  put  it  into  the  hash  to  get  warm,  about  five  minutes  before 
you  serve  it ;  divide  the  head,  and  lay  one  half  on  each  side 
ef  tbe  dish. 

For  Hare  Soup,  see  (No.  241,)  Mock  Hare  (No.  66*.) 

Jugged  Hare.  (No.  529*.) 

Wash  it  very  nicely,  cut  it  up  into  pieces  proper  to  help  at 

table,  and  put  them  into  a  Jugging  Pot,  or  into  a  Stone  Jar,f 

Just  sufficiently  large  to  well  hold  it;  put  in  some  sweet  Herbs, 

a  roll  or  two  of  rind  of  a  Lemon,  or  a  Seville  Orange,  and  a 

fine  large  Onion  with  five  cloves  stuck  in  it, έΑΦ and  if  you  wish 

to  preserve  the  flavour  of  the  Hare,  a  quarter  pint  of  water  ; 

if  you  are  for  a  Raga^f^  a  quarter  pint  of  Claret,  or  Port  wine, 

and  the  juice  of  a  Seville  Orange,  or  Lemon :  tie  the  jar  down 

closely  with  a  bladder,  so  that  no  steam  can  escape ;  put  a  little 

hey  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan,  in  which  place  tbe  jar,  and 

pour  in  water  till  it  reaches  within  four  inches  of  the  top  of  the 

jar  ;  let  the  water  boil  for  about  three  hours,  according  to  tbe 

age  and  size  of  the  hare,  (take  care  it  is  not  over^done^  which 


I  ii" 


t  Meat  dressed  by  the  heat  of  boiliog  water,  without  being  imme- 
diately exposed  to  it|^^a  mode  of  Cookery  that  deserves  to  be  more 
generally  employed  ;~it  becomes  delicately  tender,  without  being 
overdone,  and  the  whole  of  tbe  nourishment  and  gravy  is  preserved. 
This,  in  chemical  technicals,  is  called  Balneum  Maris,  a.  Water 
Bath  ;  in  culinary,  Bain  Marie  ;  which  A.  Chafpelie,  in  his  Mod' 
em  Cook,  translates,  "  Mary's  Bath.'*     See  Note  to  (No.  485.) 

Mary  Smith,  in  her  Complete  housekeeper,  translates  ^*  Sauce  Rob- 
ert," Roeboat  JBauce, έΑΦ an  Omelette  a   Hamlet, έΑΦ and  gives  you  a 
receipt  how  to  make  Soupe  a  la  Rain. 
29 


338  MADE  OlSBXS. 

IS  the  gciMiml  fault  in  ill  made  df sbes,  espaeially  this,)  _ 
it  boiliDg  all  the  time,  .and  fin  ep  the  pet  aa  it  boil┬╗  awijr. 
Whea  quite  temier,  atraio  off  the  gravy,  clear  it  from  fat,^U- 
en  it  with  flour,  aod  give  it  a  boil  up ; έΑΦ lay  the  Hare  id  a  mr^ 
dish,  and  pour  the  grary  to  it 

06t.-έΑΦ You  may  fmake  a  Pudding,  the  same  as  for  roi* 
Hare,  see  (No.  397,)  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth ;  and  when  yon  disk 
up  your  Hare,  cot  it  in  slices,  or  make  Forcedkent  Bells  of  it, 
for  garnish. 

For  Sauce,  (No.  34^.) 

Or, 

A  much  eaner  and  quicker,  and  more  certain  way  of  pro^ 
ceeding,  is  the  following :έΑΦ - 

Prepare  the  Hare  the  same  as  for  jugging,  pat  it  into  a  atew- 
pin  with  a  few  Sweet  Herbs^  half  a  dozen  Cloves,  the  same  ef 
Allspice  and  Black  Pepper,  two  large  Onions  and  a  roll  of 
Lemon┬τpeel ;  cover  it  with  water;  whenitboik,  scum  it  clean, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  tender  (about  two  hours,)  then  take 
it  up  with  a  slice,  set  it  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot  while  you  thick- 
en the  gravy  ;  take  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  some  flour,  rub 
together,  put  it  in  the  gravy,  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  boil  about 
ten  jninutes,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  over  the  Hare,  aod  it  is 
ready. 

Dressed  Ducks,  or  Geese  Hashed,        (No.  530J) 

Cut  an  Onion  into  small  dice  $  put  it  into  a  stewpau  with  a 
bit  of  Butter;  fry  it,  but  do  not  let  it  get  any  c^onr  :  pat  as 
much  boiling  water  into  the  stewpan  as  will  make  sauee  fortbe 
hash  ;  thicken  it  with  a  little  tour,  cut  up  the  dueh,  a^d  put  it 
into  the  sauce  to  warm ;  do  not  let  it  boil;  seasotD  it  widipep* 
per  and  salt,  and  catsup. 

N.  B.  The  I^BOs  of  Geese,  &cv  broiled^  and  laid  on  a  hii 
of  Apple  Sauce,  are  sent  op  for  Luncheon  or  Supper. 

Or, 

Divide  the  Duck  into  joints ;  lay  it  by  ready :  put  ^ 
trimmings  and  stuffing  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
broth  or  water,  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  then  rub  it  through 
a  sieve : έΑΦ put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  as  it 
melts,  mix  a  tablespeonful  of  flour  with  it,  stir  it  over  the  ┬μre 
a  few  minutes,  then  mix  the  gravy  with  it  by  degrees ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils,  take  off  the  scum,  and  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a 
steWpan ;  put  in  the  Duck^  and  let   it  stew  very  gently  for  tea 


MAD┬μ  DISHES.  339 

'^^  <3T  fifteea  miottteft,  if  tbe  Doek  is  rather  aoder-roasied ;  if  th┬τro 
V    IS  any  fat,  skim  it  off;  line  ibe  dish  you  s┬╗r?a  it  up  in  with 
n    sippets  of  bread  either  fried  or  toasted. 

Ragouts  or  Poultry,  Gaue,  PiG┬μ0┬╗Sy  Rabbits,  &e. 

(No.  530.) 

Half  roast  it,  then  stew  it  whole,  or  divide  it  into  joints  aod 
pieces  proper  to  help  at  table,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
pint^and  a  half  of  brotb,<έΑΦ <┬╗r  as  much  water,έΑΦ with  any  trinH 
mings  or  parings  of  Meat  you  have,  one  large  Onion  with 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  tweire  berries  of  Allspice,  the  same  of  Black 

^  Pepper,  aod  a  roll  of  LenK>n-peel4  when  it  boib,  scum  it 
very  clean,  let  it  aimmer  very  gewUy  for  about  an  hour  and  a 

'^    quarter,  if  a  Duck  or  Fowl, έΑΦ ^lonfer  if  a  larger  Bird ;  then 

^^  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  leave  the  Ducks  by  the  fire  to  keep 
hot,  scum  the  fat  off: έΑΦ put  into  a  clean  stewpan  two  ouncesof 

3  Butter,  when  it  is  hot,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  of  a 
stiff  paste,  add  the  liquor  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  op,  put  in  a 
glass  of  Port  wine  and  a  little  Lemon-juice,  and  simmer  it  ten 
έΑλminutes ;  put  the  Ducks,  &c.  into  the  dish,  and  strain  the  sauce 
through  a  fine  sieve  over  them. 

Gamuh  with  sippets  of  toasted,  or  fried  Bread,  (No.  319.) 
065.┬τ*If  the  Poultry  is  only  half  roasted,  and  stewed  only 

(Atll^ust  nicely  tender,  this  will  be  an  acceptable  Bonne  Boxiche 
4o  those  who  are  fond  of  Made  Dishes.     The  flavour  may  be 
tvaried  by  adding  Catsup, έΑΦ Curry  Powder,  or  any  of  the  έΑλ  fla- 
^       ^voared  Vinegars. 

^  This  is  an  easy  prepared  side  dish,  especially  when  you  have 

41  large  Dinner  to  dress ;  and  coming  to  table  ready  carved^ 
'έΑλ      ^avέΓυ8  a  deal  of  time  and  trouble ;  it  is,  therefore,  an  excellent 
i^y  of  serving  PofuUry^  Sfc.for  a  large  Party. 

Or, 
Roast,  or  boil  the  Poultry  in  the  usual  way, έΑΦ then  cut  it  up, 
and  pour  over  it  a  sufflcient  quantity  of  (No.  306,  or  No.  329, 
.       or  No.  364,  or  No.  3.) 

Stewed  Gibkls.  (531.) 

Clean  two  sets  of  Giblets ;  see  Receipt  for  Giblet  Soup  (No. 

^44) ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  just  cover  them  with  cold  wa* 

ter,  and  set  them  on  the  Are ;  when  they  boil,  take  off  the  scum; 

I      aod  pot  in  an  Onion,  three  Cloves,  or  two  blades  of  Mace,  a 

;     iow  berries  of  Black  Peppec,  the  same  of  Allspice,  and  half  ┬╗ 


1 


340  MADE   DISHES^ 

leaapoonfal  of  Salt :  cover  the  stewpan  close,  ajEtd  let  itsmmer 
very  gently  till  tbe  Giblets  are  quite  tender; έΑΦ this  v^loke 
from  έΑλne  hour  and  a  halfi  to  two  and  a  kalf^  acccwdieg  toie 
age  of  tbe  Giblets, έΑΦ tbe  piDioos  will  be  done  first,  and  am 
then  be  taken  oot,  and  put  in  again  to  Tvarm  wfaeir  the  G'lzzak 
are  done : έΑΦ watch  them  thai  they  do  not  get  too  much  done:- 
take  them  oet,  and  thicken  the  sauce  with  Flour  aod  Butter ;έΑΦ 
lei  it  boil  half  an  hour,  or  till  there  is  just  enough  to  eat  wli^ 
the  Giblets  ;  and  then  strain  it  ibroogb  a  tarn  mi's  info  a  clean 
stewpan ;έΑΦ -cut  the  Giblefs  nita  mootfafu/^,  put  tbem   into  the 
Sauce,  with  the  joiceof  haffe  Lemon,  and  a  tablespoon fu/  of 
Mushroom  Catsup  ;-┬τ-pour  tbe  whole  into  a  soup  dish,  wiib 
sippets  of  Bfead  at  the  bottom. 

06s. έΑΦ Os-TiiLS,  prepared  in  the  same  way,  are  excellent 
eating. 

Hashed  PouUryy  Game,  or  RahhU.      (No.  533.)       { 

Cut  them  into  joints,  put  the  triromings  into  a  stewpan  witb  a 
quart  of  the  Broth  they  were  boiled  in,  and  a  lar^e  Onioa  cot 
iu  four ;  let  it  boil  half  an  hoor ;  strain  it  through  a  sieve ; 
then  put  two  tablespoonsfnl  of  Flour  in- a  ba┬╗n,  and  mix  k 
well  by  degrees  with  the  hot  Broth  ;^  set  it  oa  a  fire  to  boil  op, 
then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  wash  out  (be  stowpaa,  lay. 
the  Poultry  in  it,  and  pour  the  gravy  on  it  (through  a  sieve) .;     I 
set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently  (it  musV  not 
boil)  for  fifteen  minutes ;  five  minutes  before  you  serre  \\  up, 
cut  tbe  stuffiog  in  slices,  and  put  it  in  to  warm,  then  take  it  out, 
and  lay  it  round  the  edge  of  the  dish, έΑΦ ^and  put  the  Poultry  in 
tbe  middle ;  carefully  skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  then  shake  it 
round  well  in  the  stewpan,.  and  pour  it  ta  the  Hash. 

N.  B.  You  may  garnish  the  dish  with  Bread  Sippets  ligbtly 
toasted. 

FtiUed  Tin-keij,  Fowl,  or  Chicken.         (No.  534.) 

Skin  a  cold  Chicken,  Fowl,  or  Turkey  ;  take  oS  the  fillets 
from  the  breasts,  and  put  tbem  into  a  stewpan  with  the  rest  o( 
the  white  meat  and  wings,  side-boues,  and  merry-thought,  with 
a  pint  of  broth,  a  large  blade  of  mace  pounded,  a  sbaUot  mioc- 
ed  fine,  tbe  j u ice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  roll  of  the  pee],  some 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne ;  thicken  it  with  fiour  sod 
butlenaod  let  it  simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes,  till  the  meat 
i>  warm.     In  the  noeantime,  score  the  legs  and  rump,  powder 


Uiem  \vubpejpper  and  salt,  broil  them  Dioaly  brown,  and  lay 
tiiom  00 '  or  round  your  pallod  chicken. 

Obs. έΑΦ ^Tbree  ublespoonsful  of  good  cream,  or  the  yo\\a  of 
as  many  Eggs,  will  be  a  great  improrement  to  it 

To  dress  Dressed  Turkey^  Goose,  Foto^  DudSr,  Pigeon,  or 

Rabbit.  (No.  535.) 

Cut  them  in  quarters,  beat  up  an  Egg  or  two  (according  to 
the  quantity  you  dress)  withalittle  grateid  Nntmeg,  and  Pepper 
and  Salt,  some  Parsley  minced  fine,  and  a  few  crumbs  of 
Bread  ;  mix  these  well  together,  and  cover  the  Eowl,  4'^┬τ^^i^t 
this  batter  ;  broil  them,  or  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  orbavu 
ready  some  dripping  hot  in  a  pan,  in  which  fry  them  a  ligiiC 
brown  colour ;  thicken  a  Utile  gravy,  with  so  mo  flour,  put  a 
large  spoonful  of  Catsup  to  it,  lay  the  fry  in  a  dish,  and  pour 
the  sauce  round  it.  You  may  garnish  with  slices  of  Lemon 
and  toasted  Bread.     See  (No.  355.) 

Demi  (No.  53a). 

The  Gizzaid  and  Rump,  or  Leg9,.&c.  of  a  dressed  Turkey, 
Capon,  or  Goose, .  or- Mutton  or  Veal  Kidney,  scored, έΑΦ Pep- 
pered,έΑΦ Salted,-^and  Broiled,,  sent  op  for  a  relish, έΑΦ beiug- 
made  Tery  hot,  has  obtained  the  name  of  '*  Devil." 

Obs,' έΑΦ ^This  is  sometimes-  surrounded  with  (No.  356,)  or  a 
sauce  of  thick  melted  butter  or  gravy,  flavoored  with  CaMup 
(No.  439,)  Essence  of  Anchovy,  or  (No.  434,)  Shallot  wino 
(No  40^,)  Curry  stuff  (No.  455,)&c.  See  Turtle  Sauee 
(No.  343,)  or  Grill  Sauce  (No.  355,)  which,  as  the  Palates  of 
the  present  day  are  adjusted,  will  perhaps  please  the  Grand. 
Cjx)urmand  as  well  as  vSntable  S(mce  d*Enfer. 

Toast  and  Cheese.  (No.  539.) 

"  Happy  the  man  that  has  each  fortune  tried, 
To  whom  she  much  has  giv*n,  and  much  deni  ed ; 
With  abstinence  all  delicates  he  sees^ 
And  can  reg^ale  himself  on  toast  and  cheese." 

Cut  a  slice  of  Bread  about  half  an  inch  thick,  pare  olF  the 
etustf  and  toast  it  veri/ sHgktly  on   bo*h  sides,    so.  as  just  to-, 
brown  it,  without  making  it  hard,  or  burnin<r  it. 

Cut  a  slice  of  Cheese  (good  fat  mellow  Cheshire  cheese,  or 
double  Glosterj  is  belter  than  poor  thin  single  Gloster),  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick,  not  so  big  as  the  B^read  by  half  an  inch  on^ 
each  side  ; έΑΦ pareoff  the  rind,,  cut  out  all  ibe  ppecks^and  w>ttejv. 
2^*  '     . 


34S{  MADE  DISHSS. 


έΑλ 


pju1s,t  and  lay  it  on  the  toasted  Broad  in  a  cIieese<itoaster^-^ 
carefully  watch  it*  that  it  does  not  bara,  and  stir  it,  with  a 
apooDy  to  pre?eot  a  pellicle  forraiog  on  the  surface.  Have  na- 
Oy  ffood  Mustard,  Pepper  aod  Salt. 

If  you  observe  the  directions  here  given,  the  Cheese  will  eat 
roelloWy  and  will  be  uniformly  done,  and  the  Bread  crisp  and 
έΨιoft,  and  will  well  deserve  its  ancient  appellation  of  a.  *^  Rart 

Bur 

06┬╗.έΑΦ ┬╗0oe  woald  think  notbifig  can  be  easier,  than  Co  pre- 
pare a  Welch  Rabbit; έΑΦ yet,  not  only  in  Private  faoiiiies,  bat 
at  Taverns,  it  is  very  seldom  sent  to  table  in  perfection. έΑΦ Wa ' 
have  attempted  to  account  for  this  in  the  last  paragraph  of  06┬τ. 
10  (No.  499.) 

Toasted  Cfccese.  No.  %.      (No.  540.) 

We  haveinothing  to  add  to  the  directioos  given  for  toasting 
the  Cheese  id  the  last  receipt,  except  m  sending  it  up  : έΑΦ it  will 
save  much  time  i┬μi  portioniog  it  out  at  table,  if  you  have  half  a 
-dozen  small  Silver  or  Tin  pans  to  fit  into  the  Cheese  Toaster, 
^nd  do  the  Cheese  in  these :  each  person  may  then  be  helped 
to  a  separate  paa,vand  it  will  keep  the  Cheese  much  bolter  than 
the  usual  way  of  eating  it  on  a  cold  plate. 

Ohs, έΑΦ Ceremony  seldom  triumphs  more  completely  over 
Comfort,  than  in  the  serving  out  of  this  dish ;έΑΦ ┬╗which  to  foe  pre- 
sented to  the  Palnte  in  perfection,  it  is  imperatively  indispensa- 
"ble,  that  it  be  introduced  to  the  Mouth  as  soon  as  it  appears  on 
the  Table. 

Bnltered  Toast  and  Cheese,         (No.  541.) 

Prepare  a  round  of  Toast ; έΑΦ butter  it ; έΑΦ grate  over  it  good 
Cheshire  cheese  about  half  the  thickness  of  the  toast,  and  give 
it  a  brown. 

Pounded  Cheese.  -<No.  542.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  good  mellow  Chedder,  Cheshire,  or  North 
Wiltshire  cheese  into  thin  bits,  add  to  it  two,  and  if  the  Cheese 
is  dry,  three  ounces  of  fresh  Butter,  pound  aod  rub  them  well 
logether  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  quite  smooth. 

06s. έΑΦ When  Cheese  is  dry,  and  for  those  whose  digestion 
is  feeble,  this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  it,  aod  spread  it. or 
Bread,  it  makes  an  excellent  Luncheon  or  Supper. 

t  Rotten  Cheese  to&tt┬τ^  is  the  neplus  ttbra  of  Haut  Gditf,  and  oalf  eaC&ble  by  Ite 
>!h┬τrottgb-br┬τBd  Courmatid,  m\h┬╗mmUav9rtta*\AiC4>i  iih Jaded  Apf^^tM* 


MADE  mSBXS.  343 

N.  B.  The  jnquamce  of  this  Battery-caseous  reUsb┬╗  is  some- 
times iacreased  by  poundisg  with  it  Carry  Powder  (No.  455┬╗) 
έΓυhrouad  Spice,  Black  Cayeooe  Pepper,  and  a  little  made  Mas- 
lard  ;  and  some  moistea  it  with  a  glass  of  Sherry.  If  pressed 
do  wo  hard  io  ajar,  and  covered  with  clarified  .Butter*  it  wiU 
'4eep  for  several  days  io  cool  weather. 

Marrow  Bonea.  (No.  544.) 

Saw  the  Bones  even,  so  that  they  wi|l  staad  steady ;  put  a 

piece  of  paste  into  the  ends  ;  set  them  upright  in  a  saocepan, 

έΑλaod  boil  till  they  aredoae  enough  ;-^a  Beef  marrow  booe  will 

require  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  aocordiDg  to  the 

thickness  of  the  Booe.     Serve  fresh  toasted  Bread  with  them. 

Eggs  fried  wUh  Bacon.        (No.  545.) 

Lay  some  slices  of  fine  streaked  Bacon  \not  more  than  a 
-quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  in  a  clean  dish,  and  toast  them  before 
the  fire  in  a  Cheese  toaster,  turning  them  when  the  upper  side 
'is  browned έΑΦ first  auk  those  who  are  to  eat  the  Bacon,  if  thay 
-wish  it  much  or  little  done,  t.  e,  curled  and  crisp,  see  (No.  526^ 
or  mellow  and  soft  (No.  527); έΑΦ if  the  latter,  parboil  it  first. 

fVell  cleansed^  see  (No.  83,)  Dnpping^  or  Lardy  is  better 
than  Butter  to  fry  Eggs. 

Be  sure  the  fryiogpan  is  quite  clean  :  when  the  fat  is  hot, 
break  two  or  three  eggs  into  it ;  do  not  turn  them,  but  while 
they  are  frying,  keep  pouring  some  of  the  fat  over  them  mxh  a 
spoon: έΑΦ when  the  Yolk  just  begins  to  look  white,  which  it 
will  in  about  acoupie  of  minutes,  they  are  enough  ;^ έΑΦ ike  fVhite 
must  not  hse  Us  transparency^  hvJt  the  Yolk  be  seen  blushing 
through  it: έΑΦ if  they  are  done  nicely,  they  will  look  as  white 
and  delicate  as  if  they  had  been  poached,  take  them  up  with  a 
4in  slice,  drain  the  Fat  from  them,  trim  tbem  neatly,  and  send 
them  up  with  the  Bacon  round  them. 

To  Poach  Eggs.  (No.  546.) 

The  Cook  who  wishes  to  display  her  skill  in  Poaching,  must 
endeavour  to  procure  Eggs  that  have  been  laid  a  couple  of 
days,  those  that  are  quite  new  laid  are  so  milky,  that  take  all 
nhe  care  you  can,  your  cooking  of  them  will  seldom  procure 
.you  the  praise  of  being  a  Pdme  Poacher  ; έΑΦ lyou  must  have 
ifiresh  Egg9>  or  it  js  equally  impossi ble. 


344  HADE  DISHES. 

The  Beauty  of  a  Poacbed  Egg,  is  for  the  Yolk  to  be  seen 
blushing  through  the  White, έΑΦ which  should  only  bejustsafli- 
ctentiy  hardened,  to  form  a  transpareat  Veil  for  the  ┬μgg. 

Have  some  boiling  water*  io  a  Tea  Kettle, έΑΦ pass  as  uuicG' 
of  it  through  a  dear  cloth  as  will  half  6ll  a^tewpan^  break  ibe 
Egg  into  a  cup,  and  when  the  water  boils,  remove  tbestewpm 
froTD  the  stove,  and  gently  slip  the  Egg  into  it ;  it   nraet  stasd 
till  the  white  is  sel ;  then  pi?t  it  over  a  very  moderate   fire,  and 
as  soon  as  the  water  boils,  the  Egg  is  ready  ;  take  it  up  with  a 
slice,  and  neatly  coutid  off  the  ragged  edges  of  the  white, έΑΦ 
send  them  up  on  a  Toaat,+  with  or  without  Batter ;  or  vfiihout 
a  Toast,  garnished  with  streaked  Bacon  (Nos.  5^6  or   5^7,) 
nicely  fried,  or  as  done  in  (No.  545,)  or  slices  of  BroWed  Beef 
or  Mutton  (No.  487,)  Anchovies  (Nos.  434,  and  435,)    Porfc 
Sausages  (No.  87,)  or  Spiuage  (No.  322.) 

06s. έΑΦ The  bread  should  be  a  little  larger  than  the  Egg,  and 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick :  only  just  give  it  a  yellow  coF- 
our: έΑΦ if  you  toast  it  brown,  it  will  get  a  bitter  flavour: έΑΦ or 
moisten  it  by  pouring  a  little  hot  water  on  it;  some  sprjiikle  it 
with  a  few  drops  of  Vinegar. 

To  hoil  Eggs  io  eat  in  the  Shell  or  for  Salads.  (No.  547.) 

The  fresher  laid  the  better,  put  them  into  boiling  water;  if 
you  like  tho  white  jjjst  set, J  about  two  minutes  boiling  is 
enough,  a  new  laid  egg  will  take  a  liltle  more  :  if  you  wish  the 
yolk  to  be  ?e\^  it  will  take  three,  and  to  boil  it  hard  (or  a  SiL- 
AD,  five  minutes.     See  (No.  372.) 

Obs. έΑΦ Ji  new  laid  Egg  \s\\\  require  boiliog  longer  than   a 

stale  one,  by  half  a  minute. 

N.  B.  "  Eg'gs  may  be  preserved  fot,  twelve  months,  in  a  sweet  and 
palatable  stato  for  eating  in  the  shell,  or  using  for  Salad*,  by  boiling 
theiafor  one  minnte-;  and -when  wanted  for  ose,  let  them  be  boiled 

^  Sirainiftg  ike  water  is^anAndispentable  precauiionj  unless  joa  use 
spring  water. 

t  "  A  couple  of  poacbedE┬τ!^gs,  with  a  few  fine  fried  coltops  of  pare 
Bacon,,  are  not  bad  for  breoikfast,  or  to  begin  a  meal,"  says  Sir  K┬μ5* 
jel;>i  DiGBY,  M.  D.  in  his  Closet  of  Cookery. 

X  The  lightest  mode  of  preparing  eggs  for  the  table,  is  to  boil  them 
only  as  long  as  is  necessary  to  coa┬τ:iilate  slightly  the  greater  part  of 
the  white,  withoTkt  depriving  the  yolk  oi*  its  fliiiJity.έΑΦ Dr.  FeaR80,s's 
Mai.  AU┬τu 


UA^m  DiSHlSll.  345 

in  the  usual  oftaoner  :  the  white  may  be  a  little  tovgher  this  a  new 
laid  egg,  but  the  yolk  will  ┬╗how  no  difference."  See  HuiTxa's  Culina* 

*4^*  Tkey  reckon  685  w?ayg  of  dremng  Eggs  in  the  French 
kilcken;:  we  hope  we  have  here  given  wfficient  variely  for 
English  pahtesy  in  the  preceding  receipts, 

Tea.+  (No.  550.) 

┬τ  Tire  Jesuit  that  cattle  from  China,  A.  D.  1664,  told  Mr. 
Walter,  that  to  a  drachm  of  tea  they  put  a  pint  of  water,  and 
frequently  tatce  tbeyoiks  of  two  new  laid  egg?,  and  beat  them 
U|)  with  asntuch  fine  sugar  as  is  sufficient  for  the  tea,  and  sttr 
ail  well  together.  He  also  informed  binn,  (hat  we  let  the  hot 
water  remain  too  long  soaking  upon  the  tea,  which  makes  it  ex- 
tract into  itself  the  earthly  parts  of  the  herb :  the  water  most 
remain  upon  it  bo  long^han  while  you  can  say  the  Miserere 
psalm  very  leisurely  ;  you  have  then  only  the  spiritual  part  of 
the  tea,  the  proportion  of  which  to  the  water  must  be  about  a 
drachm  to  a  pint. έΑΦ Sir  Ken  elm  DiaBY*8  Cookery^  Londoo, 
166P,p,l67. 

Obs, έΑΦ The  addition  of  an  Bgg,  makes  the  **  Chinese  Soap*' 
a  more  nutritious  and -substantial  meal  for  a  Traveller. 

t  VAaious  Ways  of  Makino  Txa. 

1. 
*^  The  Japanese  reduce  their  Tea  to  a  fine  powder  by  pounding  it) 
έΑΦ ^they  put  certain  portions  of  this  into  a  teacup,  poor  boiling  water, 
upon  it,  and  stir  it  up,  and  drink  it  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough. 

2. 

Dubvissoh's  Mahnsr  of  Making  Tea. 

"  Fut  the  Tea  into  a  kettle  with  cold  water,έΑΦ cover  it  dose,  set  it  on 

the  fire,  and  make  it  all  bat  boil ;  when  yon  see  a  sort  of  white  scum 

on  the  surface,  lake  it  fr┬τm  the  fire  ;  when  the  leaves  sink,  it  is  ready. 

3. 
"  The  night  before  you  wish  to  have  Tek  ready  for  drinking, έΑΦ 
pour  on  il  as  much  cold  i^ater  as  you  wish  to  make  Tea,έΑΦ next  morn* 
ing  pour  off  the  clear  liquor,  and  when  you  ^wish  to  drmk  it,  make  it 
warm,"&LC. 

The  above  ate  from  "  LArt  du  Limonadier"  de  Dubuiuon^  Paris. 

QvyMldy, 
*^  A  great  taving  may  be  made  by  mMng  a  tinckire  of  Tea^  thus,έΑΦ 
pour  boiling  water  upon  it,  and  let  it  stand  twenty  minutes,  putting 
iirto  each  cup  no  more  than  is  necessary  to  fill  about  one>third  full,έΑΦ 
┬μ31  each'  onp  up  with  hot^water  from  an  urn  or  kettle,  thus  the  Tea 
will  be  always  hot  andeqiMly  strong  to  the  end,έΑΦ and  one  teaspoon- 
fidl  will  be  found  enough  for  three  cups,  for  each  person  :  according 
to  the  present  mode  of  making  it,  three  times  the  quantity  is  ofte┬╗ 
itted."-*See  Dr.  TmfsJ4KB!9  way  to.be  Rich  and' RttputabU. 


la. 


346  VABfi  BI8HE8 


COFFBE. 


Coffee,  as  ased  on  the  Conlioeat,  serrea  the  double  poifOM 
of  aa  agreeable  toDic,  aadao  exhiliratiog  beverage,  without  (bs 
ttopleasaat  effects  of  wine. 

Coffee,  aa  draak  io  England,  debilitetes  the  Stomach  and 
produces  a  slight  nausea.  In  France  and  in  Italy  it  is  made 
strong  from  the  best  Coffee,  and  b  poured  out  hot  and  trans- 
parent. 

In  England^it  is  usually  made  from  bad  Coffee,  serred  out 
tepid  and  mo4dy,  and  drowned  in  a  deluge  of  wafer. 

To  make  Coffee  fit  for  use,  you  must  employ  the  Germaa 
┬μ|ter, έΑΦ pay  at  least  As,  the  pound  for  it,  and  u&ke  at  kaal  aa 
ounce  for  tfvobreak&st  cups. 

No  Cofiee  will  bear  drinking  witli^^bat  is  caUed  mtlk  ia 
London. 

London  people  should  either  take  their  Coffee  pore,  or  put  a 
έΑλcouple  of  ieaspooasful  of  cream  to  each  cup. 

N.  B.  The  above  is  a  contribution  from  an  intelligent  Tiar- 
eller  who  has  passed  some  years  on  the  Continent. 

Swti  Puddingt  Wiggifa  way.        (No.  5B1.) 

Suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound ;  flour,  thl'ee  tablespoons/bi ; 
egga,  two ;  and  a  liJile  grated  gtnger ;  milk,  haif  a  pint.  Mince 
the  suet  aa  fine  as  possible,  rof!  it  with  the  rolling  pin  so  as  to 
mix  it  well  with  the  fiour ;  beat  up  the  eggs,  mix  them  with 
the  milk,  and  then  mix  all  together ;  w^t  your  cloth  well  io 
boiling  water,  flour  it,  tie  it  loose,  put  into  boiling  water,  and 
έΑλboil  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Mrs.  Glasse  has  it^  <'  wken  Vou  have  made  Your  vxder 
hoilf  then  ptUYout.jmdding  into  Your  pot** 

Yorkshire  Pudding  under  RoaU  JHeat^ihe  Gipsies^  ucpf, 

(No.  552.) 

This  pudding  is  an  especially  excellent  accompaniment  to  a 
HSir-loin  of  beef,  a  loin  of  Veal, έΑΦ or  any  (at  and  juicy  joint 

Six  tablespbODsful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pint  of  milk ;  so  as  to  make  a  middling  stiff  batter,  a  littte 
ettfifer  than  you  would  for  paneakes :  <j^at  it  up  well,  and  take 
care  it  is  not  lumpy ;  put  a  dish  under  the  meat,  and  let  the 
drippings  drop  into  it  till  it  is  ^uite  hot  and  well^eased;  then 


JMADS  DISBBSi  S47 

poor  in  the  batter ;έΑΦ "When  the  upper  MisfMe  is  bromreod  Ml, 
έΑΦ lam  it,  tbet  botbsidet  may  he  brown  alike:  if  yon  wish  it 
to  cut  firm,  and  the  pudding  an  ;  inch  thick,  it  will  take  two 
hoars  at  a  good  fira* 

N.  K  The  true  YwhUwrt  Pudding  is  about  half  an  inch 
thick  when  done ;  but  it  is  the  ftsbion  in  London  to  make 
.then  full  twice  that  thickness. 

Bum  Pudding.  (No.  553.) 

Suet  chopped  fiae┬╗  six  oances; 
-  Malaga  raisins  stoned^  six  ounces. 

Currants  nicely  washed  and  picked^  eight  oances. 

Bread  crumbs,  three  onnoes. 

Flour,  three  ounces. 

Sggs*  three. 

Sixth  of  a  nutmeg. 

Small  blade  of  mace;  sane  quantity  of  cinnamon  pounded 
sd  fine  as  possible. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Haifa  pint  of  milk,  or  rather  less. 

Sugar,  four  oilnces ;  to  which  may  be  added 

Candied  lefnon,  one. ounce. 

Citron,  half  an  ounce. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  spice  well  together,  mix  the  milk  with 
them  by  degrees,  then  the  rest  of  the  ingredients ;  dip  a  fine 
dose  Uoen  cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  put  it  in  a  hair  sieve ; 
flour  it  a  little,  and  tie  it  up  close  ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan  con- 
taining six  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  keep  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  alongside  of  it,  to  fill  up  your  pot  as  it  wastes;  be  sure 
to  keep  it  boiling  six  hours  at  least. 

My  Pudding.  (No.  554.) 

Beat  up  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  Eggs,  strain  them 
through  a  sieve,  (to  keep  out  the  treddles,)  and  gradually  add 
to  them  about  a  quarter  pint  of  Milk, έΑΦ stir  these  well  together 
>έΑΦ rub  together  in  a  mortar  two  ounces  of  moist  Sugar,  and  as 
much  grated  Nutmeg  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence, έΑΦ stir  these  into 
the  Eggs  and  Milk, έΑΦ then  put  in  four  ounces  of  Flour,  and 
beat  it  into  a  smart  Batter,  by  degrees  stir  it  into  it  seven  oonces 
of  Suet  (minced  as  fine  as  possible,)  and  three  ounces  of 
Bread'^crumbs,  mix  all  thoroughly  together  at  least  half  an  hour 
before  you  put  the  pudding  into  the  pot ;έΑΦ put  it  into  an 


S4S  '      MADE  DISHS9. 

eutheo  ware  pnddiog  mould,  that  yon  have  well  butterMf,  tie 
a  pudding  cloth  over  it  very  tigbtyput  it  into  hoiliog  water,  and 
boil  it  three  hours. 

Put  One  Good  Flum  into  it,  and  an  arch  Cook  says,  pa 
may  thea  tell  the  EconondU  that  you  have  made  a  good  Pl^ 
PuddingέΑΦ tm^Aou/  Pkmu. 

N.  B.  Half  a  poond  of  Muscatel  Raisins  cut  in  half,  and 
added  to  the  above,  will  make  a  most  admirable  Plum  Pud- 
ding. 

06s.έΑΦ JjTfAe  Water  ceases  to  hoU^  the  Pudding  wiU  become 
heavy  ^  and  he  spoiled; έΑΦ if  properly  managed,  this  aod  the  foU 
lowing  will  be  as  fine  Puddings  of  the  kind  as  art  can  produce. 

Puddings  are  best  when  mixed  an  hour  or  two  before  ibey 
<┬╗re  boiled,  as  the  various  ingredients  by  that  means  amalga- 
mate, and  the  wbole  becomes  richer  and  fuller  of  flavour,  espe- 
cially if  the  various  ingredients  be  thorougiilt  well  stirred 
together.  A  tablespoonfnl  of  Tkbaclb  will  give  it  a  rich 
brown  colour.  See  Pudding  Sauce  (No*  269,)  aod  Pudding 
Catsup  (No.  446.) 

N.B.  This  Pudding  may  be  baked  in  an  oven,  or  under 
Meat,  same  as  Yorkshire  Pudding  (No.  552,)  make  it  the 
same,  only  add  half  a  pint  of  Milk  more,  it  should  be  above  an 
inch  and  a  quarter  in  thickness,  it  will  take  full  two  bours, έΑΦ it 
requires  faithful  watching,  for  if  the  lop  gets  burned,  ao  empy- 
reu malic  flavour  will  pervade  the  whole  of  the  Pudding. έΑΦ ^Or 
butter  some  Saucers,  and  fill  them  with  pudding,  ^nd  set  tbem 
in  a  Dutch  oven,  they  will  take  about  an  hour. 

A  Pat  Pudding. 

Break  five  Eggs  in  a  basin,  beat  them  up  with  a  teaspoonfol 
of  Sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Flour,  beat  it  quite  smooth, 
then  put  to  it  a  pound  of  Raisins,  and  a  pound  of  Suef,  it  mast 
not  be  chopped  very  fine,  butter  a  mould  well,  put  in  die  pud- 
ding, tie  a  doth  over  it  tight,  and  boil  it  Five  houfs. 

N.  B.  This  is  a  very  delicious  composition,  and  is  common- 
ly called  a  Makbow  Pudding* 

Pease  Pudding,  (No.  555.) 

Put  a  quart  of  split  pease  into  a  clean  cloth ;  do  not  tie  them 
up  too  close,  but  leave  a  little  room  for  them  to  swell ;  put 
them  on  (o  boil  in  cold  water  slowly  till  they  are  tender;  if 
they  are  good  pease,  they  will  be  boiled  enough  in  about  two 


MADE    DISHES.  349 

hours  aod  a  half,  rub  them  through  a  sieve  into  a  deep  dish, 
adding*  to  them  an  egg  or  two,  an  ounce  of  butter  and  some 
pepper  and  salt;  beat  them  well  together  for  about  ten  minutes, 
when  these  ingredients  are  well  incorporated  together ;  then 
flour  the  cloth  well,  put  the  pudcling  in,  and  tie  it  up  as  tight  as 
possible,  and  boil  it  an  hour  longer.  It  is  as  gooa  with  boiled 
Beef  as  it  is  with  boiled  Pork  ;  and  why  not  with  roasted 
Pork? 

Ohs, έΑΦ This  is  a  very  good  accompaniment  to  cold  Pork,  or 
cold  Beef.  > 

N.  B.  Stir  this  Pudding  into  two  quarts  of  the  liquor  Meat 
or  Poultry  has  been  boiled  in,  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  in  five 
minutes  it  will  make  excellent  Extempore  Pease  Soup,  es- 
pecially if  the  pudding  has  been  boiled  in  the  same  pot,  see 
(No.  218,)  &c.     Season  it  with  Pea  Powder  (No.  458.) 

IHain  Bread  Pudding,  (No.  556) 

Make  five  ounces  of  Bread-crumbs,  put  them  in  a  basin, 
pour  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  them,  put  a 
plate  over  the  top  to  keep  in  the  steam,  let  it  stand  twenty  mi- 
nutes, then  beat  it  up  quite  smooth  with  two  ounces  of  sngar 
aod  a  saltspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Break  four  eggs  on  a.  plate, 
leaving  out  one  white,  beat  them  well,  and  add  them  to  the 
pudding.     Stir  it  all  well  together,  and  put  it  in  a  mould   that 

nas  been  well  buttered  and  floured,  tie  a  cloth  tight  over  it,  and 

boil  it  one  hour. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding.  (No.  557.) 

You  must  have  a  dish  that  will  hold  a  quart, έΑΦ wash  and 
pick  two  ounces  of  currants,  strew  a  few  at  the  bottom  of  the 
'dish,  cut  about  four  layers  of  very  thin  Bread  and  Butter,  and 
between  each  layer  of  Bread  and  Butter  strew  some  currants, 
then  break  four  eggs  in  a  ba3in,  leaving  out  one  white,  beat 
them  well,  and  add  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  drachm  of  nut- 
meg, stir  it  well  together  with  a  pint  of  new  milk,  pour.it  over 
about  ten  minutes  before  you  put  it  in  the  oven,έΑΦ ^it  will  take 
three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  bake. 

*  To  inerease  the  bulk  and  dimmish  the  eKpenie  of  this  pudding,  the  economical 
iMNisekeeper  who  hat  a  larxe  flunily  to  feed,  may  now  add  two  ponndt  of  potatoes 
that  hare  been  boiled  and  weU  nia┬τhed.  To  many,  this  mixtave  it  man  ajpreeable 
than  fieaie  padding  alone.   See  also  <No.  107.) 

30 


350  MADE  DISHCSS. 

Pancakes  and  FriUers.  (No.  55S.) 

Break  three  egga  ia  a  basio,  beat  them  up  with  a  link  irat- 
meg  and  salt,  thea  put  (o  tbem  four  ounces  and  a  half  of  flov 
and  a  little  tnitk,  beat  it  of  a  smooth  batter,  then  add  by  de- 
grees as  much  milk  as  will  make  h  the  thfckoess  of  good  cream, 
έΑΦ the  fryiogpan  must  be  about  the  size  of  a  pudding  plate,  aod 
έΨ╝ery  clean,  or  they  will  stick,  make  it  hot,  and  to  each  pancake 
put  in  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a  walnut ;  when  it  Is  meh- 
ed  pour  in  the  batter  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  make 
tbem  the  thickness  of  half  a  crown,  fry  them  of  a  light  -brown 
00  both  sides. 

The  above  will  do  for  Apple  Fritters,  by  adding  cue 

spoonful  more  Flour ;  peel  your  Apples,  and  rut  them  lu  tbidc 

slices  ;  take  out  the  core,  dip  them  in  the  batter  and  fry  them 

in  hot  Urd, έΑΦ put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain,έΑΦ ^Hsh  them  neatly, 

'  and  grate  some  loaf  sugar  over  them. 

(No.  560.) 

The  following  Receipts  ere  from   Mr.  Henrt  OsborvEi 

Cook  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  the  late  Presideat  of  the  Royal 

Society  :έΑΦ 

Soho  Squarej  ^rU  20, 1820. 
SiRy έΑΦ I  send  you  herewith  the  last  part  of  .^he  Cook's  Grade.  I 
have  attentively  looked  over  each  receipt,  and  hope  the/  are  aow 
correct,  and  easy  to  be  understood.  If  you  think  any  need  farther 
explanation,  Sir  Joseph  has  desired  me  to  wait  on  you  again.  I  also 
send  the  Receipts  for  my  ten  Puddings,  and  my  method  of  usiqg' 
Spring  fruit  and  Oourds.     I  am,  Sir,  Yours,  HxiiRr  Osbobss. 

Boston  Apple  Pudding. 

Peel  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  good  Apples,  take  out  .ihe 
cores,  cut  them  small,  put  into  a  stew  pan  that  will  jostboki 
them,  with  a  little  water,  a  little  cinnamon,  two  cloves,  aodtbe 
peel  of  a  lemon,  stew  over  a  slow  fire  till  quitesoft,  rfasn  sweet* 
eii  with  moist  sugar,  and  pass  it  through  a  heir  sieve,  add  to  it 
the  yolks  of  four^ggs  and  one  white,  a  quarter  of  -a  pound  o( 
good  butter,  half  a  nutmeg,  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated,  and  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  ;  beat  all  well  together,  Hue  the  imaide  of  a 
pye-dish  with  good  puff  paste,  put  in  the  puddhsg,  ttud  bate 
haU  an  hour. 

Spring  Fruit  Pudding. 

Peel  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  rhubarb,  put  into  a 

stewpao  with  the  pudding,  a  lemon,   a  little  cinnamoo,  and  as 

much  moist  sugar  as  will  make  it  quite  sweet,  set  it  over  a  fire, 

and  reduce  it  to  a  marmalade,  pass  through  ┬τ  hair  sieve,  and 


MADE  DISHES.  351 

proceed  as  directed  for  tbe  Boston  Pudding,  lemng  oat  the  le- 
mon juice,  as  the  rhubarb  will  be  found  sufficiently  actd  of  itself. 

Nottingham  Pudding, 

Peel  six  good  apples,  take  out  the  core  with  the  point  of  a 
small  knife,  or  an  apple  corer,  if  you  have  one,  but  b&sure  to 
leave  the  apples  whole,  fill  op  where  you  took  the  core  from 
with  sng┬τur,  place  them  in  a  pye-dish,  and  pour  over  them  a 
nice  light  batter,  prepared  as  for  Batter  Pudding,  and  bake  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Batter  Pudding. 

Take  six  ounces  of  fine  flour,  a  little  salt  and  three  eggs,  beat 
up  well  with  a  little  milk,  added  by  degrees  till  the  batter  is 
quite  smooth,  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,  put  into  a  butter- 
ed pye-disb,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  into  a  but- 
tered and  floured  basin  tied  over  tight  with  a  cloth,  boil  one 
and  a  half  or  two  hours. 

Newmarket  Pudding, 

Put  on  to  boil  a  pint  of  good  milk,  with  half  a  lemon  peel, 
a  little  cinnamon,  and  a  bay-leaf,  boil  gently  for  five  or  ten 
minutes,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  break  tbe  yolks  of  five  and 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  a  basio,  beat  them  well,  and  add 
tbe  milk,  beat  all  well  together,  and  strain  through  a  fine  hair 
sieve  or  tammis,  have  some  bread  and  butter  cut  very  thin,  lay 
a  layer  of  it  in  a  pye-dish,  and  then  a  layer  of  currants,  and  so 
on  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  then  pour  tbe  custard  over  it,  and 
bake  half  an  hour/ 

Newcastle  or  Cabinet  Pudding, 
Butter  a  half  melon  mould,  or  quart  basio,  and  stick  all  round 
with  dried  cherries,  or  fine  raisins,  and  fill  gp  with  bread  and 
butter,  8cc,  as  in  the  above,  and  steam  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Vermicelli  Pudding, 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  with  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon,  sweeten 
with  loaf  sugar,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  Vermicelli,  boil  ten  minutes,  then  pot  in  the  yolks  of 
^ro  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  mix  well  together,  and  steam 
it  one  boor  and  a  quarter  ;  the  same  may  be  baked  half  an 
hour. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Make  a  pint  of  Bneadrcrujnbs,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
as  much  milk  as  will  cover  them,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  and  a  lit- 


352  MADE   DISHES. 

tie  nutmeg  gmted,   a  small  piece  of  eiooamoD  ;  boii  about  ten' 
inioutes  ;  sweeten  with  powdered  loaf  sugar  ;  take  out  the  da- 
namon,  and  put  ia  four  eggs ;  beat  all  well  together,  and  bake 
half  an  bour,  or  boil  rather  more  than  an  hour. 

Chstard  Pudding. 

Boil  a  pint  of  Milk,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  Cream  ; 
thicken  with  flour  and  water,   made  perfectly  smooth,  till  it  is 
stiff  enough  to  bear  an  egg  on  it;  break  in  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  sweeten  with  powdered  loaf  sugar,  grate  in  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  ;  add  half  a  glass  of  good  brandy, 
then  whip  the   whites  of  the  fi?e  eggs  till  quite  stiff,  and  mix 
gently  all  together;  line  a  pye-dish  with  good  puff  paste,  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

N.  fi.  Ground  Rice,  Potatoe  Flour,  Panada,  and  all  Pud- 
dings made  from  Powders,  are,  or  may  be,  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

Boiled  Custards, 

Ptit  a  quart  of  new  milk,  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  peel  of  a 
lemon  cut  very  thin,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  bay  or  laurel  leaf^ 
a  small  stick  of  cinnamon;  set  it  over  a  quick  fire,  but  be  care- 
ful it  does  not  boil  over  ;  when  it  boils,  set  it  beside  the  fire, 
and  simmer  ten  minutes ;  break  the  yolks  of  eight,  and  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  them  well,  then  poor  in 
the  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  it  as  quick  as  possible  to  pre- 
vent the  eggs  curdling;*  set  it  on  the  fire  again,  and  stir  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  let  it  have  just  one  boil ;  pass  it  through 
. a  tammis,  or  fine  sieve;  when  cold,  add  a  little  brandy,  or 
white  wine,  as  may  be  most  agreeable  to  palate ; έΑΦ serve  up  in 
glasses,  or  cups. 

TO  DRESS  SPRING  FRUIT. 

Spring  Fruit  Soup. 

Peel  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  Rhubarb,  blanch  it 
in  water  three  or  four  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and  put  it  in* 
to  a  stewpan  with  two  Onions  sliced,  a  Carrot,  an  ounce  of  lean 
Ham,  and  8  good  bit  of  Butter ;  let  it  stew  gently  over  a  slow 
fire  till  tender,  then  put  in  two  quarts  of  good  ConsommS^  to 
which  add  two  or  three  ounces  of  firead -crumbs,  boil  about 

*  CukartU/er  Baking,  ptepared  at  mbove,  past  throagli ┬τ  fine  lierv,  put  into  cnpii 
grate  a  little  nnunetf  over  caeb,  and  bake  aboat  fifteen  or  twenty  ninatei. 


r 


MADE   DISHES*  363 

fifteen  minutes,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  season  with  salt  and  Cay- 
enne pepper,  pass  it  through  a  taminisy  and  8er?e  up  with  fried 
bread* 

Spbing  Feuit  Pudding. 

Clean  as  above  three  or  four  dozen  sticks  of  Rhubarb,  put  it 
in  a  stew  pan,  with  the  peel  of  a  Lemon,  a  bit  of  Cinnamon, 
two  Cloves,  and  as  much  moist  Sugar  as  will  sweeten  it ;  set  it 
over  a  fire,  and  reduce  it  to  ^marmalade,  pass  it  through  a  hair 
sieve,  then  add  the  peel  of  a  Lemon,  and  half  a  Nutmeg  grated, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  Butter,  and  the  yolks  of  four 
┬μgg8  and  one  white,  and  mix  all  well  together ;  line  a  pye-dish 
(that  will  just  contain  it)  with  good  puff  paste,  put  the  mixture 
in,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 

┬τ 

Spring  Fruit έΑΦ a  Mock  Goosbberrt  Sauce  for  Macke- 
rel, &c. 

Make  a  Marmalade  of  three  dozen  sticks  of  Rhubarb, sweet^ 
┬τned  with  moist  Sugar,  pass  it  ihrcu^h  a  hair  sieve,  and  servD 
up  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Spring  Fruit  Tart. 

Prepare  Rhubarb  as  above,  cut  it  in  small  pieces  into  a  Tart 
dish,  sweeten  with  Loaf  Sugar  pounded,  cover  it  with  a  good 
┬τhort  crust  paste,  sift  a  little  Sugar  over  the  top,  and  bake  balf 
an  hour  in  a  rather  hot  oven  ;  serve  up  cold. 

Spring  Cream έΑΦ or  Mock  Gooseberry  Fool. 

Prepare  a  Marmalade  as  directed  for  the  Pudding  ;  to  which 
add  a  pint  of  good  thick  Cream  ;  serve  up  in  glasses,  or  in  a 
xleep  dish  ; έΑΦ if  wanted  in  a  shape,  dissolve  two  ounces  of  Isin- 
glass in  a  little  water,  strain  it  through  a  tammis,  and  when 
nearly  cold  put  it  to  the  Cream,  pour  it  into  a  Jelly  mould, 
and  when  set,  turn  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve  up  plain. 

Spring  Fruit  Sherbet. 

Boil  six  or  eight  sticks  of  Rhubarb  (quite  clean)  ten  minutes 
in  a  quart  of  water,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  tammis  into  a 
jug,  with  the  peel  of  a  Lemon  cut  very  thin,  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  clarified  Sugar ;  let  it  siand  five  or  six  hours,  and 
it  is  fit  to  drink. 
.  30* 


3S4  MAOB  DISHIS. 

G0UBD8  (oow  cftlM  Vegetable  Morrow)  Stewbd. 

Taira  off  all  theskin  of  six  or  eight  Gourds,  put  them  in  a 
BtewpaOy  with  water.  Salt,  Lemon  juice,  aod  a  mt  of  Butter,  or 
fat  Bacoo,  aod  let  4bea  stew  geotly  tiU  quite  tender,  and  sem 
up  with  a  rich  Dutch  eauce,  or  any  other  sauce  you  please  that 

OocfftD  Soup 

Should  be  made  of  full-growa  Gourds,  but  not  ibose  thet 
have  hard  skins ;  slice  three  or  four,  aod  put  tbem  id  a  stew^ 
pan,  wi^  two  or  three  Onions  aod  a  good  hit  of  Butter  ;  set 
them  over  a  slow  fire  till  quite  tender,  (be  careCu\  not  to  let 
them  burn,)  then  add  two  ounces  of  crust  of  Bread  and  two 
quarts  of  good  ConsomW,  season  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pep* 
per,  boil  ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an  boar,  afctm  off  all  the 
fat,  and  pass  it  through  a  tammis,  then  make  it  quite  hot,  aod 
serre  up  with  fined  bread. 

Fexbd  Gourds. 

Cut  five  or  six  Gourds  in  quarters,  take  off  the  skin  and  pulp, 
stew  them  in  the  same  meaner  as  for  table  ;  when  done,  drain 
them  quite  dry,  beat  up  ao  Egg,  and  dip  tin  Gourds  i&  it,  aod 
cover  them  well  over  with  Bread-crumbs ;  make  some  Hog's 
lard  hot,  and  fry  them  a  nice  light  colour,  throw  a  fiule  salt 
aod  pepper  over  thcay  and  serve  up  quite  dry. 

Another  fVay, 

Take  six  or  eigbt  small  Gourds  as  near  of  a  size  as  possible, 
slice  them  with  a  Cucumber  ^ice,  dry  tbem  in  a  cloth,  aod 
then  fry  tbem  in  a  very  hot  lard ;  throw  over  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  up  on  a  napkin.  Great  attention  is  rpqa^- 
site  to  do  these  well,-^if  the  fat  is  quite  bott  tbey  are  done  in 
a  minute,  and  willifiooD  spoil, έΑΦ ^if  not  hot  enough,  fhey  will  est 
greasy  and  tough. 

To  make  Beefy  Mutton^  or  Veal  Tea.       (No.  363.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  lean  gravy  Meat  into  thin  slices,  put  it  into 
a  quart  and  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  set  it  over  a  very  gentle 
fire,  where  it  will  become  gradually  warm ;  when  the  scum 
rises,  let  it  continue  simmering  gently  for  about  an  hour,  then 


MAOE  mana  335 

strain  it  thro)i┬πb  a  ioe  sieve^  or  a  luif  kin,  let  it  stand  tan  mi- 
nutes to  settle,  and  then  pour  off  the  clear  Tea. 

N.  B.  Ad  Ooioo;  and  a  few  grains  of  Black  Pepper,  are 
sometimes  added. 

If  the  meat  is  boiled  till  it  is  ihoroug^lf  tender^  you  asay 
mince  it  and  pound  it  as  directed  in  (No.  50$,)  and  make  Pot- 
ted Beef. 

To  make  half  a  pint  of  Beaf  Tea  in  five  miotttes  for  three 
hal^aee,  see  ('No.  ^%) 

MuUon  BrQthfor  the  Sick.      (No.  664.^ 

Have  a  pound  and  a  half  of  a  Neck,  or  Loin  of  MutCoOy 
itake  off  the  skin  and  the  fat^^nd  put  it  iMo  a  aaueepan ;  cofac 
it  with  έΓυo(d  water,  ("it  will  take  about  a  q┬τuirt  to  a  pound  of 
meat,)  let  it  simmer  very  gently,  and  skim  it  well ;  cover  it 
up,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  nre,  where  it  may  stand  gently 
stewing  for  about  an  hour,  then  strain  it  off.  It  should  be  al- 
lowed to  become  cM^  whan  all  the  greasy  particles  will 'float 
on  the  surface,  and  becoming  bard,  can  be  easily  taken  off,  and 
the  settlings  will  remain  at  the  bottom. 

See  also  (No.  490,  and  No.  252.^ 

N.  B.  We  direct  the  Meat  to  be  done  no  more  than  just 
sufficiently  to  be  eaten, έΑΦ so  a  sick  man  may  have  plenty  of 
good  Broth  for  nothing,  as  by  this  manner  of  producing  it  the 
meat  {urnishes  also  a  good  family  meal. 

Obs. έΑΦ This  is  an  inoffensiYe  nourishment  for  sick  persons έΑΦ and  the 
έΑλnljr  Mutton  Broth  that  should  be  given  to  convalescents,  whose  con- 
stitutions require  replenishing  with  restorative  aliment  of  easy  diges- 
tion. TJse  eommon  way  of  making  jt  with  Roots έΑΦ Onions έΑΦ Sweet 
Herbs,  &c.  &c.  is  too  strong  for  weak  Stomachs.  Plain  Broth  will 
┬τgree  wifh  a  delicate  Stomach  when  the  least  addition  of  other  in- 
gredients  would  immediateiy  offend  it. 

For  ┬τthe  Various  ways  of  flavouring  Broth,  see  (No.  572.) 

Few  know  how  much  good  may  be  done  by  such  Broth  taken  in 
sufficient  quantity  at  the  beginning  and  decline  of  bowel  complaints 
and  ^forers,έΑΦ -half  a  pint  taken  at  a  time.  See  the  two  last  pages  of 
the  7th  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

Barley  Waier.  f  No.  b6b.) 

Take  a  couple  of  ounces  of  Pearl  Barley,  wash  it  clean 
with  cold  water,  put  it  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let 
it  boil  for  five  minutes ;  pour  off  this  water,  and  add  to  it  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water :  boil  ft  to  two  pints^  and  strain  it. 


556  MADE   DISHES. 

The  aboYe  is  simple  Barley  Water  ; έΑΦ to  a  quart  of  tiiis  is 

freqaentty  added. 

Two  ouDces  of  Figs,  sliced. 

The  same  of  Raisins,  stoaed. 

Half  ao  ouQce  of  Liqaorioey  sliced  aod  braised ; 

And  a  pint  of  water. 

lBp\\  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  qaart,  and  strain. 

Obs, έΑΦ These  drinkg  are  intended  to  assuage  thirst  m  ardent  Fevers, 
and  inflammatory  disM^ers,  for  wbich  plenty  of  mild  diluting  Uqaor 
is  one  of  the  principal  remedies  ; έΑΦ and  if  not  suggested  by  the  Med- 
ical attendant,  is  frequently  demanded  by  honest  Jostinct,  in  terms 
too  plain  to  be  misunderstood  : έΑΦ the  Stomach  sympathizes  with  every 
fibre  of  the  human  frame,  and  no  part  of  it  can  be  distressed,  witU- 
έΑλut  in  some  degree  offending  the  Stomach  ', έΑΦ ^therefore  it  is  of  the  ut- 
most importance  to  soothe  this  grand  Organ,  by  rendering  every  thing 
we  ofier  to  it  as  eleg^ant,  and  agreeable  as  the  nature  of  the  case  will 
admit  of : έΑΦ ^the  Barley  drink  prepared  according  to  the  second  re- 
ceipt, will  be  received  with  pleasure  by  the  most  delicate  palate. 

Whey.  (No.  566.) 

Make  a  pint  of  Milk  boil, έΑΦ put  to  it  a  glass  or  two  of  white 
Wine έΑΦ  put  it  on  the  fire  till  it  just  boils  again έΑΦ then  set  it  on 
one  side  till  the  Curd  has  settled έΑΦ pour  off  the  clear  Whey, 
and  sweeten  it  as  yoa  like. 

Cyder  is  often  substituted  for  Wine,  or  half  the  quantify  of 
Vinegar  that  we  have  ordered  Wine* 

06s. έΑΦ When  there  is  no  fire  in  a  sick  room,  this  may  be 
put  hot  into  a  bottle έΑΦ and  put  between  the  Bed  and  Mattress έΑΦ 
it  will  keep  warm  several  hours. 

Toothache^  and  Anti-rheumatic  Embrocation,     (No.  567.) 

^i'o  all  People  the  Toothache  is  ao  intolerable  torment έΑΦ 
Dot  even  a  Philosopher  can  endure  it  patientlyέΑΦ -what  ao  over- 
coming agony,  then,  must  it  be  to  k  Grand  Gourmand l^έΑΦbe" 
sides  the  mortification  of  being  deprived  of  the  means  of  en- 
joying that  consolation  which  he  looks  to  as  the  grand  solace 
for  all  sublunary  qares. 

When  this  srffliction  befalls  him,  wo  recommend  the  foJJow- 
iog  sipecific  for  it  :έΑΦ 

R.  Sal  volatile,  three  parts. 
Laudanum,  one  part. 

Mix  and  rub  the  part  affected  frequently,  or  if  the  Tooth 
which  aches  be  hollow,  drop  some  of  this  on  a  bit  Of  cotton, 
and  put  it  into  the  Tooth ; έΑΦ for  a  general  Face-ache,  or  Sore 


MABS   DISHES.  357 

Throat,  moisten  abit  of  fiannel  with  it,  and  pat  it  at  night  to 
the  part  afTected. 

Stomachic  Tincture έΑΦ (No.  569,) έΑΦ is 

Peruvian  Bark,  bruisedy  one  ounce  and  a  half. 

Orange  Peel,         do.      one  ounce. 

Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  one  pint. 

Let  these  ingredients  steep  for  ten  days,  shaking  the  hot tl  e 
every  day έΑΦ let  it  remain  quiet  two  daysέΑΦ *and  then  decant  the 
clear  liquor. 

Do^e έΑΦ a  teaspoonful  id  a  wineglass  of  water,  twice  a  day, 
when  you  feel  languid,  i.  e.  when  the  Stomach  is  empty,  about 
an  hour  before  Dinner,  and  in  the  Evening. 

This  agreeable  Aromatic  Tonic,  is  an  effective  help  to  concoction, 
έΑΦ and  we  are  under  personal  obligations  to  it,  for  frequently  putting 
oar  Stomach  into  good  temper,  and  procuring  us  good  Appetite  and 
good  Digestion. 

In  low  nervous  affections  arising  from  a  languid  circulation έΑΦ and, 
when  the  Stomach  i  s  in  a  state  of  debility  from  age έΑΦ ^intemperance, 
or  other  causes έΑΦ ^this  ik  a  most  acceptable  restorative. 

N.  B.  Tea  made  with  dried  and  bruised  Seville  Orange  Peel,  in 
thcj  same  way  as  common  Tea,  and  drank  with  Milk  and  Sugar,  has 
been  taken  by  nervous  and  dyspeptic  persons  with  great  benefit. 

'  SucKiKG  a  bit  of  dried   Orange  Feel  about  an  hour  before  dinner, 
when  the  Stomach  is  empty,  is  very  grateful  and  strengthening  to  it. 

Paregoric  Elixir.  (No.  570.) 

A  drachm  of  purified  Opium.   Same  of  Flowers  of  Benjamin. 

Same  of  Oil  of  Anniseed.      Camphor,  two  scruples. 

Steep  all  in  a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit :  let  it  stand  ten 
days,  occasionally  shaking  it  up.     Strain. 

A  teaspoonful  in  half  a  pint  of  White  Wine  Whey  (No. 
662,)  or  Tewahdiddle  (No.  467,)  Gruel  (No.  572,)  taken  the 
last  thing  at  night,  is  an  agreeable  and  effectual  medicine  for 
Coughs  and  Colds. 

It  is  also  excellent  for  Children  who  have  the  Hooping 
Cough,  in  doses  of  from  five  to  twenty  drops  in  a  little  water, 
or  on  a  little  bit  of  Sugar. 

Dr.  Kitchener's  Receipt  to  Make  Giniel.         (No.  572.) 

Ask  those  who  are  to  eat  it,  if  they  like  it  Thick  or  thin  ; 
if  the  latter,  mix  well  together  by  degrees,  in  a  pint  basin,  one 
tablespoonful  of  Oatmeal,  with  three  of  cold  water  ;-rif  the 
former^  use  two  spoonsful. 


358  MADE   B/SHES. 

Have  ready,  in  a  Stewpan,  a  pint  of  boiling  water  or  mil; έΑΦ 
pour  this  by  degrees  to  the  Oatmeal  you  have  m]xed,>-Rtara 
It  into  the  Stewpan┬╗ έΑΦ set  it  on  the  fire, έΑΦ aod  let  it  boil  for  five 
mioutes, έΑΦ stirring  it  all  the  time  to  prevent  the  Oatmeal  fnm 
burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  Stewpan, έΑΦ skim  and  stnunit 
through  a  Hair  Sieve. 

2(i.  To  convert  this  into  Caudle, έΑΦ add  a  little  Ale^έΑΦ 
Wine έΑΦ or  Brandy, έΑΦ with  Sugar,  and  if  the  Bowels  are  disor- 
dered, a  little  Nutmeg  or  Ginger  grated. 

06s. έΑΦ Gruel  may  be  made  with  Broth  (No.  490,  or  No. 
252,  or  No.  564,)  instead  of  water, έΑΦ (to  make  Crawdie,  see 
No.  205*,) έΑΦ and  may  be  flavoured  with  Sujeet  Hcrbs.^ έΑΦ Svup 
Roois^ έΑΦ and  Savoury  Spices^ έΑΦ by  boiling  them  for  a  few  min- 
utes in  the  water  you  are  going  to  make  the  Grruel  with,έΑΦ or 
Zest  (No.  265,)έΑΦ Pea  Powder  (No.  458,)έΑΦ or  dried  Mint,έΑΦ 
Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  409,) έΑΦ or  a  few  grains  of  Curry  Pow- 
der (No.  455,) έΑΦ or  Savoury  Ragout  Powder  (No.  457,) έΑΦ or 
Cayenne  ^No.  404,)*έΑΦ or  Celery  Seed  braised, έΑΦ or  Soup  Herb 
Powder  (No.  459,)  or  an  Onion  minced  very  fine -and  bruised 
io  with  the  Oatmeal, έΑΦ or  a  little  Esballot  Wine  (No.  402,)<- 
or  Essence  of  Celery  (No  409,)έΑΦ or  (No.  413,)έΑΦ (No.  41/,) 

or  (No.  420,)  &c. 

Plain  Gruxl,  such  as  is  directed  in  .the  first  part  of  thh  Keceipt, 
is  one  of  the  best  Breakfasts  and  Suppers  that  we  can  recommend  (o 
the  rational  Epicure έΑΦ ^is  the  most  comforting  soother  of  an  irritable 
Stomach  that  we  know έΑΦ and  particularly  cucceptable  to  it  after  a  hard 
day's  work  of  Intemperate  Feasting έΑΦ when  the  addition  of  half  an 
ounce  of  Butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Epsom  Salt,  wiU  give  it  an  ape- 
riant  quality,  which  will  assist  the  principal  Viscera  to  get  rid  of  Ckeir 
burden. 

<<  Water  Gruel  '*  (says'Tryon  in  hisObs.  on  Health,)  is  "the  Kure 
of  Spoon  MtaU"  and  *<  the  Queen  of  Soups"  and  gratifies  natace 
beyond  all  others. 

In  the  *<  Art  of  Thriving,"  are  directions  for  prepariogr  Fourscore 
Noble  and  Wholesome  Dishes,  upon  most  of  which  a  Man  nu^  live 
excellerUly  well  for  Twopence  a  day:  the  author's  Obs.  on  Wester  Gruel 
is  that  <<  Essence  of  Oatmeal"  makes  "  a  noble  and  exhitxroXing 
meal  /" 

Dr.  Franklin's  favourite  Breakfast  was  a  good  basin  of  waarm 
Gruel,  in  which  there  was  a  small  slice  of  Butter  with  Toasted  Bread 
and  JSutmeg,έΑΦ the^xpense  of  this,  he  reckoned  at  three  helf-pence. 

Scotch  Burgoo.  (No.  57^*) 

"  This  hamble  dish  of  our  Northern  brethren  forms  no  con- 
temptible article  of  food.  It  possesses  the  grand  qaalities  of 
salubrity,  pleasantnesSy  and  cheapoess.     It  is,  ia  fact,  a  sort  of 


MADE  BISHXS,  359 

Oatmeal  Hasty  Podding  without  iDilk,  much  used  by  those 
patterns  of  combined  industry,  frugality  and-  temperance,  the 
Scottish  peasftQtry?  manners,  &c.  and  tbis  among  o^er  exam- 
ples of  the  economical  Scotch,  is  vrell  worthy  ofbeing  occasion- 
ally adopted  b^y  all  who  have  large  families  and  small  incomes. 
It  is  made  in  the  following  easy  and  expeditious  manner;έΑΦ 
*'  To  a  quart  of  Oatmeal,  add  gradually  two  quarts  of  water, 
so  that  the  whole  may  smoothly  mix  :  then  stirring  it  continu- 
ally over  the  fire,  boil  it  together  fer  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  af- 
ter which,  take  it  up,  and  stir  in  it  a  little  Salt  and  Butter,  with 
or  without  Pepper.     This  quantity  will  serve  a  family  of  five 
or  six  persons  for  a  moderate  meal." 

┬τ 

Anchovy  Toast  (No.  573.) 

Bone-and  wash  the  anchoviesy  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with 
a  little  fresh  butter ;  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  spread  them 
on  aftoast,  see  (Nos.  434  and  435,  and  No.  355.) 

(Jibs. έΑΦ You  tnay  add,  while  pounding  the  Anchovies,  a  lit- 
tle made  Mustard  and  Curry  Powder  (No.  455,)  or  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne,  or  a  little  Mace  or  other  spice.     It  may  be 
┬τmade  still  4eiiore  savoury,  by  frying  the  toast  in  clarified  butter. 

DeviUed  Biscuit  (No.  574.) 

Is4he  above  composition,  spread  on  a  biscuit  warmed  before 
the  fiR^in  a  >Suteh  oveByHvUh-a  sufficient  quantity  of  salt  and 
savoifl5r*pice  (T^o,  4m,)  Zeit  (No.  ^U,)  Curry  Powder 
(No.  45^^  or  ^Cayenne  Pepper  t^rinkled  aaFer:it. 

(Mmi-'^*^┬τnejphisv^aofht^sp\ced  reliihes  end  (No. 
538i)  ifti^ently  mabeirStsnErjTpeacaBce  at  aOavern  dinner,  when 
the  ymmiifm^^  Btte&afy-W^e  ^SPsifJxivB^4o  vie  with  each  other 
in  sate#8A|g  to  tlie1^cmft3od. 


tei 


^'  .s^  :┬π;nift>i 


III 

St-     3 

,-181      ^ 

IS 


ffilili^liltf    ^ 


*: 
*: 


M^mmsL  ^┬τ  s, 


.  71u  opposite  Engraving  rtprtHnU  the  method  of  dividing  an  Ox  for 
the  table,  in  Enf^and^  end  in  most  of  the  touthem  dHen  of  the  United 
Siaiei.  2%e  method  in  Boston^  varies  contiderablyf  dividing  into 
smatler  pieeeSf  and  this  plar^  ioe.jpurme  in  the  following  table;  hut  the 
ffianner  of  cooking  each  is  nearly  the  same. 


MARKETING  TABLES. 
BEEF. 

THE  HIND  QUARTER. 


Sirloin             10  to  12  cents 

Roasted,  (No.  19.^ 

Blimp              10  to  12 

┬╗> 

5  Roasted,  or  Steak,  (94,)  o^  ^^^^> 
\     (600, 501.) 

Edge  Bone        6  to  8 

n 

Boiled,  (Q.) 

1 
Round  .    '       8  to  \0 

┬τ 

Alamode,  (No.  502)έΑΦBoned,  (7) 
^-H}r  savoury  salted  Beef,  (496.) 

Veiny  Piece      6  to  8 

┬τ 

'  Steaks  or  Roast ;  or  baked  or  salted 

Thick  Flank     6  to  8 

>┬╗ 

Steaks,  or  corned. 

Thin  Flank             .6 

It 

do. 

Leg  Ran                   4 

9>  έΨι 

Boil ;  Soap,  (191>--or  Stew,  (493.) 

Leg        ,                   2 ' 

'┬╗ 

Soup  or  Stew. 

THE  FORE  QUARTER. 

First  Cut,  2  RibB 

10  cents 

Roast. 

Second  Cut,  2  Ribs 

10' 

V     έΑλ 

do. 

Third  Cut,  2  Ribs 

8^ 

19 

do.                         ^ 

Fourth  Cut,  2  Ribs 

6 

┬╗     * 

┬╗      do. 

Chuck  Rib 

6 

a 

Boil  or  Stew,  or  for  making  gravy 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Piece  6 

It 

Steaks  or  BouilU. 

Shoulder  Clod 

3 

w 

Boil  or  Soup,  or  Beef  Sausages. 

Brisket 

6 

<  Boil,  or  Bouilli ;  (yr  8tewing,(494) 
\   έΑΦor  Harric6t,(4B96)^or  Sahed. 

* 

^# 

}> 

Rattleran 

6 

17 

Boil. 

Sticking  Piece 

3 

79 

Boil,  or  Soup. 

Neck 

2 

n 

Gravy. 

Shin 

Q 

J  Soup ;  excellent  Scotch  barley 
I      Broth,  (204)έΑΦ Stewed,  (493.) 

έΑλ 

40 

a 

79 

lJead(iaee9U9)     ' 

. 

Soup,  (289)έΑΦ Stewed,  (M?.) 

Tail  (2  etnls) 

Soup,  (240)έΑΦ  Stewed,  (608.) 

Heels,  p,ven  ioith  the  head 
31 

(Boiled,  (18*)έΑΦ Jelly,  (198) έΑΦ 
I     Soup,  (240*) 

962 


APPENDIXέΑΦ No.  I. 


MUTTON. 

teir 

8  to  10  eenU 

Boil,  (No.  1>έΑΦ Roast,  <24.) 

Loin 

<S  to  8    ,, 

Cbops^Roast,  (28)--.Boil,  (1.) 

' 

(Boil,   (2) έΑΦ ^Roait,    (29) έΑΦ ^Irisb 

Rack,  Dock  end 

6  to  6    έΑη 

{     Stew,  (486)έΑΦ Harrkot,  (469) 
(     έΑΦStewed,  (490,)  Broth. 

Rack,  best  end 

6  to  8    έΑη 

Chops,  or  Broth,  (194.) 

Shoulder 

┬τ    έΑη 

Roast,  (27) 

Breast 

┬τ    έΑη 

Broth,έΑΦ Grilled,  Ohs.  to  (38.) 

Head 

4    έΑη 

Brotl\. 

The  Chine  or  the  Saddle,  two  ) 
Loins.  The  Haunch  is  a  > 
Leg"  and  part  of  tlie  Loin.     ) 


Roasted,  (31)έΑΦ Vcaisontfiedy  (32.) 


VEAL. 


Loin 
Fillet 


8  to  10  cents 
ft  >         11 


Roast,  (No.  35.) 
Cutlets,  Roast,  Boil. 


^  Roasted,  (34>--yeal  0]iTes,(6i8) 


Knuckle,  or  whole  Leg  8 
Breast  8  to  10 


Scotch  Collops,  (air.) 

(  Broth,    Ragout,    (622) έΑΦ ^Stew, 
I     (623)έΑΦ Soup,  (193.) 

Roast,  (37.) 

!Roa┬╗t>┬╗*5tew,    (675) έΑΦ BMgout, 
(517,)έΑΦ Curry,  (497.) 

Soup έΑΦ Chops  to  fry. 

Roast,  or  Bake. 

Stewed,  (615)έΑΦ Ragout,  (517.) 

Fiied,  (90)έΑΦ Broiled,  (521.) 

Head,  scalded     60  to  eo  ets.  each   \  ^'^^^  P**^'  (10)-Hash,  (60, 


Breast  and  Neck 

Rack 

Shoulder 

Brisket 

Cutlers 


6 

6 
6 

8 
10 


Beep  IS  pkntieit  and  cheapest  from  Octobei^  to  January  ; 
and  best  from  January  to  May. 

Veal  is  best  from  April  to  July, 

Mutton  is  bestfyom  October  to  June. 

Gra9s  Lamb  is  best  from  June  to  October, 

The  Quality  of  Butcher  Meat  varies  quite  as  muA  as  i^e 
price  of  it έΑΦ according  to  its  age--^how  it  has  been  fed έΑΦ and 
especially  how  it  has  been  treated  the  week  brfore  it  has  been 
killed. 


1 

APPENDIXέΑΦ No.  \ 

3( 

, 

l^ORK. 

V 

CwMM  into  Mirket, 

PUiUiett. 

BoMted  Pigfl 

May 

June. 

Quarter  Fork 

July 

August. 

Spare  Ribs  and  Chine 

Aug. 

Nov.  k  Dee* 

Middlingi 

salt,  all  the  year. 

* 

Bacon  Hams 

November,  and  continue  all  the  year. 

POULTRY. 

- 

CMfie┬τ  itdo  Mtwktt, 

Plenties. 

Chickens 

July 

Nov. 

Fowls 

All  the  year 

do. 

Ducks 

July 

Octoben 

Geese 

August 

Nov. 

Turkeys 

September 

Nov.  k.  Dec. 

Wild  Ducks 

do. 

Oct.  &i  Apr. 

Brants 

April 

May. 

Fartridget 

September 

October. 

Quaih 

do. 

Jaouaryr  ' 

Woodcocks 

July 

August. 

06s.έΑΦ -Poultry  U  in  greatest  perfection,  uhen  in  g^eaieU 
plenty. 

The  price  of  it  varies  as  much  as  the  size  and  quality  of  U, 
and  the  supply  at  market^  and  the  demand  for  it. 

It  is  generally  dearest  from  March  to  July,  and  cheapest 
about  September^  when. the  Gam/e  season  comm^.nces,  and  the 
weather  being  ooldery  iMovos  of  its  being  brought  from  more 
distant  parts. 

The  above  ii^ormation  wiU^  we  trust,  be  very  acceptable  to 
Economical  FamiKes,  who,  from  hearing  the  very  high  pnce 
PouUry  sometimes  costs^  are  deterred  from  ever  inquiring 
about  U.  In  tlie  cheap  seasons  we  have  noted,  it  is  sometimes 
as  cheap  as  Butcher-meat. 

Those  vsho  pay  the  highest,  do  not  always  pay  the  dearest, 
price.  In  fact,  ike  Best  Meat  is  the  cheapest;  and  those  who 
treat  a  tradesman  liberally^  have  a  much  better  chance  of  being 
weU  served,  than  those  who  are  for  ever  bargainifig  for  the 
Market  Penny.  In  dividing  the  Joints,  there  is  always  an  op* 
portUnity  of  apportioning  the  Bones,  Fat,  Flaps,  S^c.  so  as  to 
make  up  a  variation  of  much  more  than  a  penny  per  pound  in 
most  pieces  ;  and  a  Butcher  mU  be  happy  to  give  the  turn  of 


364  AFPENDIXέΑΦ No.  t 

ki$  knife  in  favour  of  tkat' CvMorder  who  cheerfuUy  pays  t&c 
fair  price  of  the  article  he  ptff^cfutses  ;  have  those  who  are  iin- 
willing  to  do  90  any  reason  io  cvmplain  ?  Have  they  not  m- 
viled  such  conduct  ? 

.  Directions  for  Curing  and  Cooking  PkkUd  Fish.* 

The  use  of  FickUd  Fiak,  such  as  Mackerel,  Salmoo,  Shad, 
&c.  is  becoroiog  more  general  tfian  forinerly,  and  would  be  still 
more  extenshre  if  the  proper  mode  of  preparing  xhem  for  the 
table  was  better  understood.     'Hiese  fish  coostitate  not  only  a 
salutary  diet,  but  io  many  cases  makes  a  very  beneficial  chango 
in  our  food; 

Whoever  will  give  the  foftoSfiriDg  directions  a  fair  trial  will 
become  sensible  of  their  vahie :έΑΦ ^ 

First    The  fish  should  be'  kept  covesed  by  the  pickle  by 
means  of  a  flat  stone  or  slate,'  laid  on  them.     The  oil,  or  ani- 
mal fat,  which  floats  on  the  top  of  the  cask,  should  not  be  re- 
moved, as  it  prevents  the  fish  from  rusting  ;  but  in  takiog^tbe 
fish  from  the  barrel  or  keg,  this  oil  ought  to  be  put  aside,  care 
being  taken  not  to  let  the  fish  toiieb  it.     Secondly έΑΦ The  fish 
should  be  washed  clean,  then  pot  to  soak┬╗in  a  large  quantitrof 
water  for  eight  or  ten  hours,  with  the  flesh  side  down.    The 
time  of  soaking  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  palate.     It  must 
again  be  wash^  dean,  pat  it  io  soak  six  or  eight  hours  ia  milk, 
(if  you  have  it)  then  dry  it  by  tbe  fire.     TAtnC^έΑΦ -Wbea  dry 
lay  it  on  tbe  gridiron,  with  the  flesh  side  downward*  OYer  prottir 
lively  coats,  for  five  minutes,  or  till  it  is  moderately  browoe^ 
4hen  turn  it  with  a  plate,  or  some  flat  instrument  llwt  will  not 
break  the  skin,  and  let  it  remain  over  the  coals  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  or  tilt  it  is  cooked  sufficiently.    Slide  it  off  tbe  grid- 
iron into  the  dish,  and  strip  off  the  backbone  with  a  broad 
knife ;  pat  the  fish,  to  cause  the  thick  part  of  the  fish  to  abeorb 
the  fat  from  the  belly  part ;  use  no  butter έΑΦ then  you  will  mx" 
joy  all  the  flavour  and  juices  of  the  fish. 

If  a  Mackerel  or  Shad  so  prepared  does  not  relish,  it  must  be 
more  the  fault  of  the  palate,  than  of  the  food.    How  many  ar- 


\ 


*^ 


*  TbU  Rcoei|it  it  give^  us  by  CMpU  Heary  |*iii1(itt|  th┬τ  Ma┬τa9lmiett┬τ  lotpe^tor 
Qftisbi 


APPENDIXέΑΦ No.  I.  365 

ticlesy  capable  of  beiog  made  into  excellent  dishes,  are  lost  or 
spoiled  from  want  of  care  aad  skill  io  dressiog  tfaem. 

To  make  a  Chowder  for  Ten  or  Twelve, 

Take  of  sfclt  Pork  cut  in  thin  slices,  as  much  as  will  make 
half  a  pint  of  fat,  when  4ried,  which  will  do  for  two  good  8ized 
cod  or  haddock.  ^  Be  careful  not  to  burn  the  fat.  Fi┬╗t,  put 
your  fat  in  the  pot.  Secondly,  cut  your  fish  in  as  large  pieces 
as  will  go  into  the  pot ;  then  put  a  layer  offish  on  the  fat ;  pep- 
per, salt)  and  a  few  cloves,  then  a  layer  of  the  slices  of  pork, 
strewed  over  with  onions  cut  fine ;  then  a  layer  of  sbipbread 
or  hard  crackers  dipt  in  water  ;  then  your  thickening.  Go  on 
again  with  fish,;^&c.  &c.  as  above,  till  your  pot  is  nearly  full, 
then  put  in  water  until  yoiTcan  just  see  it,  and  let  it  stew  slow* 
]y,  so  as  not  to  break  the  fish.  After  coming  to  a  boil,  it  will 
be  done  in  ^5  or  30  minutes. 

N.  B.  Some  like  potatoes  out  in  slices,  which  may  be  in* 
'  troduced  between  each  layer.  Likewise  wine  or  cyder,  as  you 
fancy. 

Clam  Chofwder, 

May  be  made  in  the  same  way,  substituting  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  clams  instead  of  cod,  the  heads  or  hard  leathery  part  be- 
ing  first  cut  off.  Many  prefer  clam  chowder,  nicely  cooked, 
to  chowder  made  of  cod,  haddock,  ^c.  Tha  pilgrims  to  Ply- 
mouth, it  is  said,  could  cook  this  shell  fish  and  lobsters  in  near* 
]y  50  difierent  ways,  and  even  as  puddings,  pancakes,  &c. 

Tripe. 

A  celebrated  epicure  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Boston,  sur- 
passed in  giving  suppers  from  this  luscious  dish.  His  method 
was  to  go  to  the  butcher's  slaughter-yard  personally  and  select 
the  best  looking  steer  or  heifer,  which  being  knocked  in  the 
head,  the  offals  were  immediately  emptied  ;  the  tripe,  without 
suffering  to  cool,  was  taken  to  his  house  and  thoroughly  scour- 
ed, and  boiled  the  same  afternoon.  The  tripe  of  old  bullocks 
is  not  only  tough,  but  being  suffered  to  cool  with  the  offal  in  it, 
contracts  a  strong  rancid  taste,  of  which  it  cannot  afterwards  be 
divested.  Care  also  is  necessary  that  it  should  boil  neither  too 
31*  . 


3W  APPENWXέΑΦ50.  I. 

much  nor  too  little ;  the  tripe  of  a  young  steer  requires  not 
more  than  half  the  boiliogof  a  superanouated  bullock  or  cow. 
If  the  entrails  of  pigs^  &c.  used  for  making  sausages,  wero 
cleansed  before  cooling  in  the  same  way,  much  time  and  labour 
in  endless  scouring  would  be  likewise  saved,  and  the  cootrac- 
tioo  of  iheir  raocid  taste  entirely  prevented. 

EeU. 

Eels  always  having  the  skin  taken  off  by  the  Aahermao  pre- 
vious to  sale,  of  course  the  cook  will  only  have  to  cut  them  iato 
small  pieces,  parboil  them,  fry  them,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  brought  oo  the  table  and  eatea  ia  this  stale,  there  la 
nothing  sweeter. 

jBacon. 

Take  ^  fi6e  plump  leg  of  Bacon,  the  smallest  is  the  best, 
wash  and  scrape  the  outside  perfectly  clean,  spit  it  alongside  the 
bone,  and  put  it  down  to  a  bright,  slow  fire ;  cover  it  with  pa- 
per all  over  ;  in  about  ?  hours  a  leg  weighing  l^lbs.  will  be 
done  enough.  Take  off  the  rind,  and  send  it  to  table.  This 
rosooer  of  cooking  a  leg  of  JBacon  is  for  preferable  to  boiling, 
as  it  preserves  all  the  juices,  with  which  a  very  excellent  gravy 
may  be  made :  whereas,  in^tbe  other  case  you  turn  them  all  ia- 
to pot-liquor. 

Steaks^ 

Our  American  fashion  of  cooking  fine  steaks  is,  the  hearth 
being  highly  heated,  to  place  the  gridiron  on  a  bed  of  live  char- 
coal fire,  the  steak  taken  from  the  inside  of  the  second  or  third 
cut  of  the  rump,,  tolerably  thin-,  to  continue  on  the  fire  about  5 
minutes,  turned  without  thrusting  the  fork  through  it  and  (aien 
up  in  j^bout  S  minutes  after ;  the  time  here  mentioned  may  be 
varied  according  to  the  heat  of  the  fire,  thickness  of  the  sieak, 
the  wish  to  have  them  rare  or  much  done,  or  other  circumstan- 
iies.  When  done,  taken  into  a  heated  plate,  a  little  salt  sprinkled 
over  it,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  spread  a  top,  and  the  sooner 
eaten,  the  better.  Shakspeare^s  expression,  often  quoted,  **έΑλ  If 
'  it  were  done,  when  'tis  done,  then  'twere  well  it  were  done 
quickly"  is  an  excellent  receipt  for  cooking  a  steak ;  but  a  steak 
vanuot  be  done  properly  at  a  smalt  fire,  on  a  cold  hearth,  and 
with  a  tough  piece  of  beef ;  even  the  gridiron  should  not  be 


APPENDIXέΑΦ No.  I.  867 

k 

cold.     And  it  is  impossible  to  give  a  good  steak  from  beef  just 
killed.     See  (No.  94.) 

Shreen  Peas, 

Gfeeo  Peas  that  are  necessarily  picked  the  afternoon  of  the 
day  previous  to  eating,  should  be  spread  on  the  gceen  sward, 
where  the  dew  may  fall  on  them  during  the  night.  But  if  pos- 
sible they  should  be  picked  the  same  day  they  are  wanted  for 
boiling, 

^ate. 

Is  very  good  when  in  good  season,  but  no  6sb  so  bad  when 
it  is  otherwise  :  those  persons  that  like  it  firm  and  dry,  should 
have  it  crimped  ;  but  those  that  like  it  tender,  should  have  it 
plain,  and  eat  it  not  earlier  than  the  second  day,  and  if  cold 
weather,  three  or  four  days  old  it  is  better :  it  cannot  l>e  kept 
too  long,  if  perfectly  sweet.  Young  Skate  eats  very  toe, 
cricDped  and  fried,  see  (No.  154.) 

Scotch  way  of  dressing  Haddocks, 

A  haddock  is  quite  like  a  different  fish  in  London  and  io 
Edinburgh,  which  arises  chiefly  from  the  manner  in  which  they 
BTe  treateid  ;  a  haddock  should  never  appear  at  table  with  its 
head  and  skin  on.  For  boiling,  they  are  all  the  better  for  ly^ 
ing  a  night  in  salt ;  of  course  they  do  not  take  so  long  to  boil 
without  the  skin,  and  require  to  be  well  skimmed  to  preserve 
the  colour. έΑΦ After  lying  in  salt  for  a  nighty  if  you  bang  them  ^ 
up  for  a  day  or  two,  they  are  very  good  broiled  and  served 
with  cold  butter.  For  frying,  they  should  be  split  and  boned 
very  carefully,  and  divided  into  convenient  pieces  if  too  large 
to  luUve  merely  ;  egg  and  crumb  them,  and  fry  iu  a  good  deal 
of  lard ;  they  resemble  soles  when  dressed  in  this  manner. 
There  is  another  very  delicate  mode  of  dressing  them ;  you 
split  the  fish,  rub  it  well  with  butter,  and  do  it  before  the  fire  ia 
the  Dutch-oven. 

Haddocks  salted  a  day  or  two  and  eaten  with  egg  sauce,  are 
a  very  good  article.  Haddocks  cut  in  fillets,  fried,  eat  very 
fine.  Or  if  small,  very  well  broiled,  or  baked,  with  a  pudding 
in  their  belly,  and  some  good  gravy. 


9m  APPEltDIXέΑΦ Ko.  r. 

Maiorb  Fish  Pie┬τ┬τ 

SaU  Fish  Pie. έΑΦ The  thickest  part  mast  be  choseo,  aod  pt 
10  cold  water  to  soak  the  night  before  wanted  ;  then  boii  il 
welly  take  it  up,  take  away  the  bones  and  skin,  and  if  it  is 
good  fish  it  will  be  in  fioe  layers  ;  set  it  on  a  fish  drainer  to 
get  cold  :  in  the  mean  time  boil  four  eggs  hard┬╗  peel  and  slice 
them  very  thin,  the  same  quantity  of  onion  sliced  thin,  line  the 
bottom  of  a  Pie  dish  with  Fish  force-meat,  page  37%  or  a 
layer  of  potatoes  sliced  thin, έΑΦ then  a  layer  of  onions,  tbea  of 
fish,  and  of  eggs,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  fall ;  season  each 
layer  with  a  iittle  pepper, έΑΦ then  mix  a  teaspoonfnl  of  made 
mustard,  the  same  of  Essence  of  Anchovy,  a  \\\i\6  Musbtoom 
Catsup  in  a  gill  of  water,  put  it  in  the  dish,  then  put  on  the 
top  an  ouope  of  fresh  butter  broke  in  bits,  cover  it  with  puff 
paste,  and  bake  it  one  hour. 

Fresh  Cod  may  be  done  in  the  same  way  by  adding  a  Utde 

salt. 

All  Fish  for  making  Pies,  whether  Soles,  Flounders,  Her- 
rings, Salmon^  Lobster,  Eels.  Trout,  Tench,  &c.  should  he 
dressed  first, έΑΦ this  is  Uie  most  Economical  way  for  Catholic 
families,  as  what  is  boiled  one  day,  will  make  excellent  Pies, 
or  Patties,  the  next ;  if  you  intend  it  for  Pies,  take  the  dda 
off,  and  the  bones  out, έΑΦ lay  your  Salmon,  Soles,  Turbot,  ol 
Codfish  in  layers,  aod  season  each  layer  with  equal  quantities 
of  pepper,  allspice,  mace,  and  salt,  till  the  dish  is  full, έΑΦ save  a 
little  of  the  liquor  that  the  fish  was  boiled  in,  set  it  on  the  fire 
with  the  bones  and  skin  of  the  fish  ;  boil  it  a  qcwrter  of  aa 
hour,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  let  it  settle,  and  pour  it  in 
the  dish,  cover  it  with  puff  paste,  bake  it  about  an  hour  and  a 
quarter.    Shrimps,  prawns,  or  oysters  added,  will  improve  the 
above ;  if  for  Patties,  they  must  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
dressed  in  a  Bechamel  sauce,  (No.  364.) 

CoD  Sounds  for  a^ie  should  be  soaked  at  the  least  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  well  washed  and  put  on  a  cloth  to  dry, έΑΦ put 
in  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  with  four  ounces  of 
sliced  onions,  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown,  then  put  in  a  smalt  ta- 
blespoonful  of  Hour,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water ) 
when  smooth,  put  in  about  ten  Cod-sounds,  aod  season  them 
with  a  little  pepper,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  teaspoon ful  of  Es- 
sence of  Aochovy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  stir  it' well  to- 


AWEimiXέΑΦ No.  I.  ^ 

gefhdi^,  pot  it  m  a  pie-dish,  cover  it  with  paste,  tindbftlte  it  one 
hour. 

SpUchcocked  Bels, 

V 
Tins  the  French  Cooks  call  the  English  way  of  dressing 

Eels. 

Take  two  middling  sized  silver  eels,  leave  the  skin  on┬╗  seour 
tfaeni  with  salt/and  waA  thetn,  cat  off  the  heads,  slit  them  on 
the  heUj  side,  and  take  out  the  bone  and  gets,  and  wash  and 
wipe  tbero  nicety,  then  cut  them  into  pieces  about  three  inches 
long,  and  wipe  them  quite  dry,  put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  little  miaced  parsley,  thyme,  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  very  little  chopped  shallot ;  set  the  stewpan  over  the 
fire ;  when  the  butter  is  melted,  stir  the  ingredients  together. 
And  take  it  off  the  fire,  mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  them, 
and  dip  the  eel  in,  a  piece  at  a  time,  and  then  roll  them  in 
bread  crumbs,  making  as  much  stick  to  them  as  you  can ;  then 
rub  a  gridiron  with  a  bit  of  suet,  set  it  high  over  a  very  clear 
fire,  and  broil  your  eels  t>f  a  Bnecrisp  brown  :  dish  them  with 
crisp  parsleys  and  send  up  plain  butter  in  h  boat,  and  anchovy 
and  butter. 

Obs, έΑΦ We  Jike  them  better  with  the  Skin  off;  it  is  very  apt 
to  offend  delicate  stomachs. 

Scotch  Soups. 

7%e  three  following  Receipts  are  the  contribution  Of  a 
friend  at  ^w^rgK 

Winter  Hotoh  PtOtA, 

Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  Mutton,  cut  it  into 
neat  chops,  cut  four  carrots  and  as  many  turnips  into  slices,  put 
on  four  quarts  of  water  with  half  the  carrots  and  turnips,  and  a 
whole  one  of  each,  with  a  pound  of  dried  green  peas,  which 
must  be  put  to  soak  the  night  before,^et  it  boil  two  hours^ 
then  take  out  the  whole  carrot  and  turnip,  bruise  and  return 
them,  put  in  the  meat  and  the  rest  of  the  carrot  and  turnip, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  slowly  three  quarters  of  an 


\ . 


V 


370  A1┬╗PEN┬╗IXέΑΦ N┬τ.  I. 

boar ;  a  short  time  before  serWog  add  an  onioa  eutamiliuid 
a  head  of  celery. 

Cochf'Leeky  Soup, 

Take  a  scrag  of  Mutton,  or  shank  of  Veal,  three  quarts  of 
water  (or  liquor  io  which  meat  has  been  boiled,)  and  a  good 
sised  fowl,  with  two  or  three  leeks  cut  in  pieces  about  aa  lodi 
long,  pepper  and  salt,  boil  slowly  about  an  hour,  then  put  ia 
as  many  more  leeks,  and  give  it  three  quarters  of  an  boor  ioag- 
er : έΑΦ ibis  is  very  good,  made  of  good  beef  stock,  ukd  leeks  put 
10  at  twice. 

Lamb  Stove  or  Lamb  Stew. 

Take  a  lambV  head  and  lights,  open  the  jaws  of  the  head, 
aiid  wash  them  thoroughly,  put  them  in  a  pot  with  some  beef 
stock,  made  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  two  pounds  of  shia 
of  beef,  strained,  E>oil  very  slowly  for  an  hour,  wash  and  string 
two  or  three  good  handsful  of  spinach  (or  Spioage,)  put.it  ia 
twenty  minutes  before  serving,  add  a  little  parsley  and  one  or 
two  onions  a  short  time  before  it  comes  off  the  fire,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  all  together  in  a  tureen. 

Game  Soup.  . 

In  the  Game  Season,  it  is  easy  for  a  Cook  to  give  her  mas- 
ter a  very  good  Soup  at  a  very  little  expense,  by  taking  all  the 
Meat  off  thje  Breasts  of  any  cold  Birds  which  have  been  left 
the  preceding  day,  and  pounding  it  iu  a  mortar,  and  beatiog  to 
pieces  the  legs  andi  bones,  and  boiling  them  in  some  broth  for 
an  hour.     Boil  six  turnips,  mash  them  and  strain  them  through 
a  tammis  cloth  with  the  meat  that  has  been  pounded  io  a  moT' 
tar,  strain  your  broth,  and    put  a  little  of  it  at  a  time  foto  the 
tammis,  to  help  you  to  strain  all  of  it  through.     Put  your  soup- 
kettle  near  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  when  ready  to  6i┬╗h 
your  dinner,  have  six  yolks  of  eggs  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  strain  thrpugh  a  sieve,  put  your  soup  on  the  ┬μre,  and  as 
it  is  coming   to  a  boil,  put  in  the  eggs,  and   stir  well  with  * 
wooden  spoon  ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdtot 

MocK'TuBTLE.     (See  No.  U7.)  έΑλ 

Atfpage  326,  near  the  top,  we  nnide  a  reference  to  this  re- 
ceipt, which  may  be  used  in  lieu  of  the<one  there  set  dpwn,  and 
which  completes  the  Soup  after  the  Head  is  prepared  as  iD(947.) 


AFPENKnCέΑΦ No.  1.  S7l 

Wheo  the  Head  is  tajcei)  out,  put  in  the  Stock  Meat^^  tboot 
fiye  pound?  of  Knuckle  of  VeaUt^dea  mucb  Beef/add  to  thf 
┬τtock  all  th^  Trimoiings  and  Bones  of  the  Head,  skim  it  well, 
and  then  cpver  it  close,^  and.  let  it  boil,  ^ve  hours,  (reserve  % 
couple  of  quarts  of  this  to  make-QRAVY  Sauces,  i&c.  see  (No. 
307,)  then  strain  it  ofi^'  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  morning, 
-έΑΦthen  take  oifthe^t^set  a  large  stevypao  on  the  fire  withbalf 
V  pound  of  good  fresh  butter,  twelve  ounces  of  Onions  sliced, 
and  four  ounces  of  green  Sage,  chop  it  a  little,  let  it  fry  one 
hour,  then  rub  in  half  a  pouod  of  flour,  and  by  degrees  add 
your  Broth  tilJ  it  is  the  thickness  of.  Cream,'  season  it  with  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ,grpund  AJIspioe  and  half  an  ounce  of 
,Bl^k  pepper  ground  very  floe,  salt  to  your  taste,  and  the  rind 
of  one  L4emon  peel^  very  thin  ;  let  it  siip'mer  very  gently  for 
one  hour  and  a  half,  then  strfiin.it  through  a  hair  sieve^ έΑΦ do  not 
rub  your  Soup  to  get  it  through'  the  sieve,  or  it  Will  make  it 
grouty ;  if  it  does  not  ruDithrough  easily, έΑΦ knock  your  wooden 
spoon  against  the  side  of  your  sieve, έΑΦ put  it  in  a  clean  stew- 
pan  with  the  Head,  and  season  ;t  by  adding  to  each  gallon  of 
Soiip  haliC  a,  .pint  of  Wine έΑΦ this  should  be  Madeira,  or  if  you 
widh  to  darken., ^h^  colour  of  your  Soup,  Claret,  and  two  ta- 
blespoonsful  of  ternoii  juice,  see  (No,  407*,)  let  it  simmer 
gently  till  the  Meat  is  tender ;  this  may  take  from  halt  an  hour 
to  an  hour ; έΑΦ take  care  it  is  not  overdone  ;έΑΦ ^stir  it  frequently 
to  prevent  the  meat  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  and 
when  the  meat  is  quite  tender  the  soup  is  ready, 

A  Head  weighing  twenty  pounds,  and  ten  pounds  of  stock 
meat,  will  make  Ten  quarts  of  excellent  8ot/p, έΑΦ besider  the 
two  quarts  of  stock  yon  have  put  by  for  Made  Dishes,  Sec. 

Obs, έΑΦ If  there  is  more  meat  on  the  head  than  you  wish  to 
put  in  the  soup,  prepare  it  for'a  Pie,  end  with  the  addition  of  a 
Qalf's  foot,  boiled  tender,  it  will  make  an  excellent  Raoovt 
Pi┬μ ;  season  it  with  Zest,  and  a  little  minced  Onion,  put  in 


*  The  reader  may  have  remarked,  that  Mock  Tctrtle  and  Pottkd 
Beef  always  come  into  season  together. 

See  Obs.  to  (No.  508*.)  This-GRAVv  Meat  wiU  make  an  excellent 
tavoury  Foiled  Rtlithf  as  it  wUl  be  impregnated  wkh  the  davour  of 
the  herbs  and  spices  4bat  are  boUed  with  it.. 


half  a  taacopful  of  stock,  cover  it  irith  puff  pasto,  and  bib  it 
one  hoar :  when  thoaoap  comaa  from  table,  if  there  is  t  dati 
of  meat  and  no  toop,  put  il  iafo  a  pie^tiab,  aeasoo  itaiittK 
-Vid  add  some  thin  stock  to  it^  then  cover  it  with  paste,  bli  it 
One  hour,  and  you  have  a  good  Mock  Tubtlb  Pus. 

FiA  Forceauai. 

Take  two  onoces  of  either  Torbot,  Sole,  Lobster,  Shrifflp^ 
or  Oysters,  free  from  skin,  put  it  in  a  mortar,  with  two  oanon 
of  fresh  Butter,  one  ounce  of  Bread  cruxnbs,  the  yolks  of  two 
Eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  Uitle  Eshalio^  grated  LemoD^pesl,  and 
Parsley, minced  very  fine ;  then  pouad  it  weU  tillit  ia  tboroagh" 
If  mixed  and  quite  smooth  ;  teason  it  with  salt  and  Cayenno 
to  your  taste,  break  in  the  yolk  and  white  of  one  ┬μgg,  rub  h 
well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Raters  parboiled  and 
minced  fine,  and  an  Anchmf^  may  be  added. 

Syrup  iff  Ona^e  er  Lanoii*PeeL 

Of  fresh  outer  riod  of  Seville  orange  or  Lemon-ped,  thiei 
ounces,  apothecary^s  weight ;  boiling  water,  a  pint  and  a  half; 
infuse  them  for  a  night  in  a  close  vessel ;  then  strain  the  liquor; 
let  it  stand  to  settle ;  and  having  poured  it  off  clear  from  the 
sediment,  dissolve  in  it  two  pounds  of  double  refined  loaf  su- 
gar, and  make  it  into  a  syrty  with  ,a  gentle  beat. 

06$. έΑΦ In  making  this  Syrup,  if  the  sugar  be  diasohed  ia  the 
infusion  with  as  geotle  a  heat  as  possible,  topieveikl  iVio 
exhalation  of  the  volatile  parts  of  the  Peel┬╗  tlus  syrup  v?\\\  pos- 
sess a  great  share  of  the  fine  flavour  o^.tho  orange,  or  lemon- 
peei*  4 

MeatCaket. 

If  ycu  have  any  cold  Meat,  Game,  or  Poultry,  (if  under- 
done all  the  better,)  mince  it  fine,  with  a  little  fat  baoon  or 
ham,  or  an  anchovy  ;  season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt ; 
mix  well,  and  make  it  into  small  cakes  three  inches  long,  half 
as  wide,  and  half  an  inch  thick :  fry  these  a  light  -brotvn,  and 
serve  them  with  good  gravy ;  or  pu^  it  into  a  mould  and  boil . 
or  bake  it. 

N.  B^  Bread  crumbs,  hard  yolks  of  Eggs,  Onioos,  Sweat 
herbs,  Savoury  Spices,  Zlest,  or  Curry  Powder,  or  any  bf  the 
Forcemeals,  see  (No.  97S  to  38^.) 

Fish  Cakes  for  Maigre  Bays,  may  be  made  in  Jikovmao- 
ner. 


3t>9 


'       '  APPENDIXέΑΦ No  I. 

f 
Maccaroni. 
See  Maccaroni  Pudding  for  the  Boiling  it. 

The  usual  mode  of  dressing  it  in  this  country-  is  by  ad┬τlinsr  a  white 
sauce, and  Parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese,  and^buming  it;  but  this 
makes  a  dish  which  is  proverbially  unwholesome :  but  it .  bad  quahlies 
arise  from  the  oiled  and  burnt  cheese,  and  the  half  dressed  flour  and 
butter  put  into  the  white  sauce. 

Maccaroni  plain  boiled,  and  some  rich  stock  or  portable  soup  added 
to  it  quite  hot,  will  be  found  a  delicious  dish,  and  very  wholesome. 
Or  boil  Maccaroni  as  directed  in  the  receipt  for  the  Pudding,  and 
serve  it  quite  hot,  in  a  deep  tureen,  and  let  each  guest  add  grated 
Parmesan  and  cold  butter,  or  oiled  butter  served  hot,  and  it  is  excel- 
lent ;  this  is  the  most  common  Italian  mode  of  dressing  it.  Maccaro- 
ni, with  Cream,.Sugar,  and  Cinnamon,  or  a  little  Varicdli  added  to 
the  Cream,  makes  a  very  nice  sweet  dish. 

English  way  of  dressing  Maccaroni, 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Maccaroni  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint 
of  Milk,  or  Broth,  or  Water ;  let  it  boil  gently  till  it  is  tender,  and 
then  put  in  an  ounce  of  grated  Cheese,  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as 
a  Walnut,  more  pr  less,  as  your  cheese  is  fat  or  poor,  and  a  teaspoon - 
fwl  of  salt,  mix  it  well  together,  and  put  it  on  a  dish έΑΦ and  strew  over 
it  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  or  Cheshire  Cheese έΑΦ and  give  it  a 
light  brown  in  a  Dutch  oven. έΑΦ Or  pat  alt  the  Cheese  into  the  Macca- 
roni, and  put  Bread  crumbs  over  We  top. 

Maccaroni  is  very  .good^put  into  a^hick  Sauce,  with  some  shreds  of 
dressed  Ham,  or  in  a  Curry  Sauce.  ^Ribaiyl  Maccaroni  is  host  for 
these  dishes  and  should  not  be  done  so  much. 

^^Maccaroni  Ptidding^ 

One  of  the  most  elegant  |kparatid|N>f  Maccaroni  is  the-  Titnballc 
de  Maccaroni.  Simmer  half  apound^f  Mac<;aront  in  plenty  of  wa- 
ter, and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  tilt  it-  is  tender  ;  but  take  care  not  to 
have  it  too  soft  ;Whough  tender  it  should  be  firm,  and  the  form  entire- 
ly preserved,  arid  no  part  beginning' to  melt,  (this  caution  will  serve 

for  the  preparation  of  all  Maccaroni).    Strain  the  water  from  it beat 

up  five  yolks  and  the  white  oC  two  eggsέΑΦ take  half  a  pint  of  the  best 
cream,  and  the  breast  of  a  fowl,  and  some  thin  slices  of  Ham.  Mince 
the^itreast  of  the  fowl  and  the  Ham έΑΦ add  them  with  from  two  to  three 
tablespoonsful  of  finely  grated  Parmesan  Cheese,  and  season  with 
Pepper  and  Salt:  Mix  all  these  with  the  maccaroui,  and  put  into  a 
pudding  mould  well  buttered,  and  then  let  it  steam  in  a  stewpan  of 
boihng  water  for  about  an  hour,  and  serve  quite  hot,  with  rich  ffravv 
(as  in  Omelette);  ^      '' 

06*.έΑΦ This,  we  have  been  informedjis  considered  by  a  Grand  Gour 
mand,  in  Grosvenor  Square,  as  the  most  important  recipc'which  wai- 
31      ]Nou  2 


370  APPENDIXέΑΦ Ifo.  I. 

added  to  the  collection  of  bis  Cook  daring  a  gastronomic  tour  through 
Europe  ;  it  is  not  an  uncommon  mode  of  Preparing  Maccarom  on 
the  continent. 

Omelettes  and  various  ways  of  dressing  Eggs. 

There  is  no  dish  which  in  this  country  may  be  considered  as  com- 
ing under  the  denomination  of  a  Made  Dish  of  the  second  order, 
which  is  so  generally  eaten,  if  good,  as  an  Omelette  ;  and  no  one  is 
so  often  badly  dressed  :  it  is  a  very  faithful  assistant  in  tbe  construc- 
tion of  a  dinner. 

When  you  aie  taken  by  surprise,  and  wish  to  make  an  appearanee 
beyond  what  is  provided  for  the  every  day  dinner,  a  little  portable 
soup  melted  down,  and  some  Zest  (ISo.  255),  and  a  few  Vegetables, 
will  make  a  good  broth έΑΦ a  pot  of  the  stewed  veal  of  MoTrison*8, 
warmed  up, έΑΦ an  Omelette, έΑΦ and  some  Apple  or  Lemon  Fritters,  can 
all  be  got  ready  at  ten  minutes  notice,  and  with  the  original  founda- 
tion of  a  Leg  of  Mutton,  or  a^siece  of  Beef,  will  make  up  a  very 
good  dinner  when  taken  by  surmise  in  the  country. 

The  great  merit  of  an  Omelette  is,  that  it  should  not  be  greasy, 
burnt,  nor  too  much  done  :  if  too  much  of  the  whites  of  tbe  Eggs 
are  left  in,  no  art  can  prevent  its  being  hard,  if  it  is  done  :  to  dress 
the  Omelette,  tbe  fire  should  not  be  too  hot,  as  it  is  an  object  to  hare 
the  whole  substance  heated,  without  much  browning  the  outside. 

One  of  the  great  errors  in  the  cooking  an  Omelette  is  that  it  is  loo 
thin,  consequently  instead  of  feeling  full  and  moist  in  the  mouth,  the 
substance  presented  is  little  better  than  a  piece  of  fried  leather :  to 
get  the  Omelette  thick  is  one  of  the  great  objects.  With  respect  to 
the  flavours  to  be  introduced,  these  are  infinite  :  that  which  is  most 
common,  however,  i$  the  best,  viz.  finely  chopped  Parsley,  and  Chives 
or  Onions,  or  Eshallots έΑΦ however,  one  made  of  a  mixture  of  Tarra- 
gon, Chervil,  and  Parsley,  is  a  very  delicate  variety  ;  omitting  or  ad- 
ding the  Ouion  or  Chives.  Of  the  Meat  flavours,  the  Veal  Kidney  is 
the  most  delicate,  and  is  the  most  admired  by  t)ur  neighbours  the 
(Trench  :  this  should  be  cut  in  dice,  and  should  be  dressed  (boiled^ 
before  it  is  added  ;  in  the  same  manner  Ham  and  Anchovies,  shred 
small,  or  Tongue,  will  make  a  very  delicately  flavoured  dish. 

The  objection  to  an  Omelette  is  that  it  is  too  rich,  which  makes  it 
advisable  to  eat  but  a  small  quantity.  An  addition  of  some  flneif 
mashed  Potatoes,  about  two  tablespoonsful  to  an  Omelette  of  six  eggs, 
will  much  lighten  it. 

Omelettes  are  often  served  with  a  rich  gravy,  but,  as  a  general 
principle,  no  substance  which  has  been  fried  should  be  served  in  gra- 
vy, but  accompanied  by  it : έΑΦ or  what  ought  to  eat  dry  and  crisp,  be- 
comes soddened  and  flat. 

In  the  compounding  the  gravy  great  care  should  be  taken  that  the 
flavour  does  not  overcome  that  of  the  Omelette,  a  thing  too  little  at- 
tended to ;  a  fine  gravy,  with  a  flavouring  of  Sweet  Herbs  and  On- 
ton*,  we  think  the  best :  some  add  a  few  drops  of  Tarragon  Vinegar; 
but  this  is  to  be  done  only  with  great  care  :  gravies  to  Omelettes  are 


appendixέΑΦNo.  i.  371 

in  general  thickened  ;  this  should  never  be  done  with  flour  :  Potatoe 
Starch,  or  Arrow  Root,  is  the  best. 

Omeletles  should  be  fried  in  a  small  Fi^in^pan  made  for  that  pur- 
posej  with  a  small  quantity  of  Batter.  The  Omelette's  great  merit  is 
V)  be  thick,  so  as  not  to  taste  of  the  outside  ;  therefore  use  only  half 
the  number  of  whites  that  you  do  yolks  of  Eggs ;  every  care  mus9 
lie  taken  in  frying,  even  at  the  risk  of  not  having  it  quite  set  in  the 
middle  :  an  Omelette,  which  has  so  much  vogue  abroad,  here  is  ia 
general  a  thin  doubled  up  piece  of  leather,  and  harder  than  soft  leath- 
er sometimes.  The  fact  is,  that  as  much  care  must  be  bestowed  on 
the  frying,  as  should  be  taken  in  poaching  an  Egg.  A  Salamander 
is  necessary  to  those  who  will  have  the  top  brown  ;  but  the  kitchen 
Shovel  may  be  substituted  for  it. 

The  foUowing  Receipt  is  the  basis  of  all  Otnelettts,  of  which  you 
vnay  make  an  endless  variety,  by  taking,  instead  of  the  Parsley  and 
Shallot,  a  portion  of  Sweet  Herbs,  or  of  any  of  the  Articles  enume- 
rated in  the  Table  of  Materials  used  for  making  Forcemeats,  see 
(No.  373)  ;  or  any  of  the  Forcemeats  between  (Nog.  373  and  386.) 

Omelettes  are  called  by  the  name  of  what  is  added  to  flavour  them; 
a  Ham  or  Tongue  Omelette, έΑΦ an  Anchovy,  or  a  Veal  Kidney  Ome- 
lette, &LC. :  these  are  prepared  exactly  in  the  same  way  as  in  the  first 
receipt,  leaving  out  the  Parsley  and  Shallot,  and  mincing  the  Ham 
or  Kidney  very  fine  kc.  and  adding  that  ia  the  place  of  them,  and 
then  pour  over  them  all  sorts  of  thickened  Gravies, έΑΦ Sauces,  &c. 

Receipt  for  the  common   Omelette. 

Five  or  six  Eggs  will  make  a  good  sized  Omelette :  break  them  in- 
to a  Basin,  and  beat  them  well  with  a  fork  ;    and  add  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  *,    have  ready   chopped   two  drachms   of    Onion,   or  three 
drachms  of  Parsley,  a  good  clove  of  Eshallot  minced  very  fine ;  beat 
it  well  up  \vith  the  ^ggs  ;    then  take   four  ounces  of  Fresh   Butter, 
and  break  half  of  it  in  little  bits,  and  pot  it  into  the  Omelette,  and  the 
other  half  into  a  very  clean  fryingpan  ;  when  it  is  melted,  pour  in  the 
Omelette,  and  stir  it   with  a  spoon  till  it  begins  to  set,   then  turn  it 
up  all  round  the  edges,  and  when  it  is  of  a  nice  brown  it  is  done  :έΑΦ 
the  safest  way  to  take  it  out,  is  to  put  a  plate  on  the   Omelette,  and 
turn  the  pan  upside  down  ;    serve  it  on  a  hot  dish  ;    it  should   never 
be  done  till  just  wanted       If  Maigre,  grated   Cheese,  Shrimps,  or 
Oysters. έΑΦ If  Oysters,   boil  them    four  minutes,  and  take    away  the 
beard  and  gristly  part :     they  may   either  be  put  in  whole,  or  cut  in 
bits. 

Or, 

Take  Eggs  ready  boiled  hard,  and  either  fry  them  whole,  or  cut 
them.in  half; έΑΦ when  they  are  boiled,  (they  will  take  five  minutes), 
let  them  lie  in  cold  water  till  you  want  to  use  them  ;  then  roll  them 
lightly  with  your  hand  on  a  table,  and  they  will  peel  without  break- 
ing ;  put  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  and  dredge  them  lightly  with  Flour  j 
beat  two  Eggs  in   a  basin,,  dip  the  Eggs  in,  one  at  a  time,  and  then 


372  APPENDIXέΑΦ No.  1. 

roU  tbeni  in  fine  Bread-crumbs,  or  in  Dack  (No.  378),  or  Veal  ^toAng 
(No.  374)  ;  set  them  away  ready  for  frying  ;    fry  them  in  hot  Oil  or 
clarified  Butter,  serve  them  up  with  Mushroom  Sauce,  or  any  odier 
thickened  Sauce  you  please  ',  crisp  Parsley  is  a  pretty  garnish. 

Or, 

Do  not  boil  the  Egfgs  till  wanted  :  boil  them  ten  minutes,  peel  them 
as  above,  cut  them  in  half,  put  ^em  on  a  dish,  and  have  ready  a 
Sauce  made  of  two  ounces  of  Butter  and  Flour  well  rubbed  together 
on  a  plate,  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  three  quarter;  of  a  pint  of 
good  Milk  ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  fit  till  it  boils  ; έΑΦ if  it  is  aot 
quite  smooth,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  chop  some  Parsley  and  a 
clove  of  Eshallot  as  fine  as  possible,  and  put  it  in  your  Sauce  *.  sea- 
son it  with  salt  to  your  taste :  a  little  Mace  and  Lemon-peeA,  boiled 
with  the  Sauce,  will  improve  it: έΑΦ ^if  you  like  it  still  richer,  you 
may  add  a  little  Cream,  or  the  yolks  of  two  Eggs  beat  up  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  Milk,  and  stir  it  in  the  last  thing:  do  not  let  it  boil 
aAer  :  place  the  half  Eggs  on  a  dish  with  the  yolks  upward,  and  poqr 
the  Sauce  over  them. 

-         Or, 

Slice  very  thin  two  Onions  weighing  about  two  ounces  each,  pat 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  three  ounces  of  Butter,  keep  them  covered dU 
they  are  just  done,  stir  them  every  now  and  then,  and  when  thej  axe 
of  a  nice  Brown,  stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  wiU  make  them  of  a  stiff' 
paste,  then  by.  degrees  add  as  much  Water  or  Milk  as  trill  make  it  the 
thickness  of  good  Cream  ;    season  it  with  Pepper  and   Salt  to  your 
taste ;  have  ready  boiled  hard  four  or  five  Eggs, έΑΦ ^you  may   either 
shred  them  or  cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters,έΑΦ then  put  them  in  the 
Sauce:  when  they  are  hot  they  are  ready :  garnish  them  with  sippets 
of  Bread. 

Or,  have  ready  a  plain  Omelette,  cut  into  bits,  and  put  them  iato 
the  Sauce. 

Or,  cut  off  a  little  bit  of  one  end  of  the  Eggs,  so  that  they  may  stand 
up  ;  and  take  out  the  yolks  whole  of  some  of  them,  and  cut  the  whites 
in  half,  or  in  quarters. 

06┬τ.έΑΦ This  is  called-in  the  Parisian  kitchen,  "  Eggs  a  la  Dyf/  wCfA. 
a.  Roux. 


^ 


^^WMSL  m 


coxPRisiira 
DIRECTIONS   FOR  MAKING 

PASTRY,  PRESERVES,  BREAD,  PUDDINGS, 

PICKLES,  Sx.  See. 


(No.  1.)  PuffPasU. 

To  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sifted  Flour  mb  gently  in  with 
the  hand  half  a  pound  of  Fresh  Butter,  mix  up  with  half  a  pint 
of  Spring  Water  ;  knead  it  well,  and  set  it  by  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour ;  then  roll  it  out  thin,  lay  on  it,  in  small  pieces,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  more  of  Butter,  throw  on  it  a  little  Flour, 
double  it  up  in  folds,  and  roll  it  out  thin  three  times,  and  set  it 
by  for  about  an  hour  in  a  cold  place, 

(No.  2.)  Paste  for  Meat  or  Savtfury  Pies, 

Sift  two  pounds  of  fine  Flour  to  one  and  a  half  of  good  Salt 
Butter,  break  it  into  small  pieces,  and  wash  it  well  in  cold 
water ;  rub  gently  together  the  Butter  and  Flour,  and  mix  it  up 
with  the  Yolk  of  three  Eggs,  beat  together  with  a  spoon,  and 
nearly  a  pint  of  spring  water,  roll  it  out,  and  double  it  in  folds 
three  times,  and  it  is  ready. 

(No,  3.)  Tart  Paste  for  Family  Pies. 

Bub  in  with  the  hand  half  a  pound  of  Butter  into  one  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  Flour,  mix  it  with  half  a  pint  of  Water,  and 
knead  it  well. 

(No.  4.)       Sweetf  or  Short  and  Crisp    Tart  Paste, 

To  one  pound  and  a.  quarter  of  fine  Fiour,  add  ten  ouncea 
of  Fresh  Butter,  the  Yolks  of  two  eggs  beat,  and  three  ounces 
of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  mix  up  together  with  half  a  pint  of 
New  Milk,  and  knead  it  well. έΑΦ See  (No  30.) 

N.  B.  This  Crust  is  frequently  Iced. 

(No.  5.)  Raised  Pies. 

Put  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  Flour  on  the  Pasteboard|~ 
and  put  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  three  quarters  of  a  piot  of 
Water,  and  half  a  pound  of  good  Lard ; έΑΦ when  the  water 
boils,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  pour  in  the  WA^ 

32 


370  PASTKY,  &c.  [Appendix. 

ter  and  lard  by  degrees,  gently  miziog  the  Flour  with  it  with 
a  SpooD,  aod  wbeo  it  ig  well  mixed,  then  knead  it  with  yoor 
haoda  till  it  becomes  stiff ;  dredge  a  little  Flour  to  prevent  it 
sticking  to  the  board,  or  yoa  cannot  make  it  look  smooth  :^o 
BOt  roll  it  with  the  Rolling-pin, έΑΦ but  roll  it  with  your  Hands 
about  the  thickness  of  a  quart  pot  ;  cut  it  into  six  pieces,  leav- 
ing a  little  for  the  covers, έΑΦ put  one  hand  in  the  middle,  and 
keep  the  other  close  on  the  outside  till  you  have  worked  it  either 
in  an  oval  or  a  round  shape  : έΑΦ have  your  meat  ready  cot,  and 
seasoned  with  Pepper  and  Salt :  if  Pork,  cut  it  in  small  slices; 
the  Griskin  is  the  beet  for  pasties : έΑΦ if  you  use  Mutton,  cut  it  ia 
Tery  neat  cutlets,  and  put  them  in  the  Pies  as  yoa  make  tbem  : 
roll  out  the  covers  with  the  Rolling-pin  just  the  size  of  the  pie┬╗ 
wet  it  round  the  edge,  put  it  on  (he  pie,  and  press  it  together 
with  your  thumb  and  finger,  and  then  cut  it  all  round  with  a 

Sair  of  scissors  quite  even,  and  pinch  them  inside  and  out,  and 
ake  them  au  hour  and  a  half. 

(No.  6.)  Poftejor  Boiled  Puddings. 

Pick  and  chop  very  fine  half  a  pound  of  Beef  Suet,  add  to  it 
one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  Flour  and  a  little  Salt ;  mix  it  with 
half  a  pint  of  Milk  or  Water,  and  beat  It  well  with  (be  RoUiog- 
pin  to  incorporate  the  suet  with  the  flour. 

,(No  7.)  Paste  for  stringing  TarUetSySfc, 

Mix  with  your  hands  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Flour,  an 
ounce  of  fresh  Butter,  and  a  little  cold  Water ;  rub  it  weU  be- 
tween the  board  and  your  hand  till  it  begins  to  string ;  cot  it 
into  small  pieces,  roll  it  out  aod  draw  it  into  fine  strings,  lay 
them  across  your  Tartlets  in  any  device  you  please,  and  bake 
them  immediately. 

(No  8.)  Paste  for  Croquarits  or  cut  Pastry, 

'To  half  a  pound  of  fine  Flour,  put  ax[uarter  of  a  pound  of 
sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  mix  it  well  together  with  Yolks  of  Eggs 
tHl  of  a  good  stiffness. 

(No  9.)  Venison  Pastj^. 

Take  a  Neck,  Shoulder^  or  Breast  of  Venison  that  has  not 
hung  too  long,  bone  them,  and  (rim  off  all  the  skin,  and  cut  it 
into  pieces  two  inches  square,  aod  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
thrtJe  gills  of  Port  Wine,  two  Onions,  or  a  few  Esbaltots  sliced, 
some  Pepper,  Sa4t,  and  three  blades  of  Mace,  about  atlozea 
Albpice,  and  enough  Veal  Broth  to  cover  it ;  put  it  over  a  slow 


j^endiooiJ]  pastry,  &c.  371 

fire,  and  let  it  stew  till  three  parts  done :  pat  tbe  trimmiDgs  into 
another  saucepan^  cover  it  with  water,  and  set  it  on  a  fire.  Take 
out  the  Pieces  you  intend  for  the  Pasty,  and  put  them  into  a 
deep  dish  with  a  little  of  their  Liquor,  and  set  it  by  to  coo), 
then  add  the  remainder  of  the  Liquor  to  the  Bones  and  Trim- 
mings^ and  boil  it  till  the  Pasty  is  ready, έΑΦ then  cover  the  Pasty 
with  paste  made  Hke  (No.  5  :)  ornament  the  top,  and  bake  it 
for  two  hours-  in  a  slow  Oven  ;  and  before  it  is  sent  to  table 
pour  in  a  sauce  made  with  the  gravy  the  venison  was  stewed  in, 
strained  and  skimmed  free  from  fat :  some  Pepper,  Salt,  half  a 
gill  of  Port,  the  Juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  and  a  little  fiour  and 
Butter  to  thicken  it. 

(No.  10.)  Mutton  w  Veal  Pie. 

Cut  into  chops,  and  trim  neatly,  and  cut  away  the  greatest 
part  of  the  fat  of  a  Loin  or  best  end  of  a  Neck  of  Mutton,  (the 
former  the  best),  season  them,  and  lay  them  in  a  pie-dish  with 
a  little  Water  and  half  a  gill  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  (chopped 
Onion  and  Potatoes  if  approved)  ;  cover  it  with  Paste  (No.  2), 
bake  it  two  hours:  when  done  lift  up  the  crust  from  the  dish 
with  a  knife,  pour  out  all  the  gravy,  let  it  stand,  and  skim  it 
elean  ;  add,  if  wanted,  some  more  seasoning ;  make  it  boil,  and 
pour  it  into  the  Pie. 

Veal  Pie  may  be  made  of  the  brisket  part  of  the  breast ; 
but  must  be  parboiled  first. 

(No.  11.)  Hare  Pie. 

Take  the  Hare  skinned  and  washed,  cut  it  into  pieces,  and 
parboil  it  for  two  minutes  to  cleanse  it,  wash  it  welt,  and  put  it 
in  a  stewpot  with  six  Esballots  chopped,  a  gill  of  Port  Wine,  a 
small  quantity  ofThyroe,  Savory,  sweet  Marjoram,  and  Paraley, 
tied  in  a  bunch,  four  Cloves,  two  blades  of  Mace,  half  a  dozen 
Allspice,  a  slice  of  Ham  ;  cover  it  with  Veal  Broth,  and  stew 
it  till  half  done  ;  pick  out  the  prime  pieces,  such  as  the  Back, 
Leg;;,  &c.  (leaving  the  remainder  to  stew  till  the  goodness  is 
quite  extracted)  ;  take  the  parts  preserved  and  fill  them  into  a 
dish  with  some  water,  and  cover  it  with  Paste  as  (No.  2),  bake 
it  an  hour,  strain  the  gravy  from  the  trimmings,  thicken  it  a 
little,  and  throw  in  halfagillof  Port,  the  Juice  of  half  a  Lemon, 
and  pour  it  into  the  Pie  boiling  hot; έΑΦ line  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  with  Hare  Stuffing  (No.  379),  or  make  it  into  Forcemeat 
Balls. 

Pies  of  Game^nd  Wild  Fowl  are  made  in  like  manner; 
-^and  as  the  following  receipt  for  Pigeon  Pie, 


i 


372  PASTRY,  &c.  [Aiy>endix* 

(No.  1%)      Savoury  Pies,  Pasties,  avd  Patties. 

The  piguancc  of  Pies  may  be  reflated  odHbitumf  by  aprink- 
ling  the  articles  with  Zest  (No.  356),  Curry  Powder  (No.  455), 
and  see  (No.  457  cad  459),  or  by  covering  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  with  any  of  the  Forcemeats  enamerated  in  (Nos.  373  to 
385),  and  maktog  it  into  Balls  ;  lay  one  ring  of  these  and 
another  of  hard  boiled  Eggs,  cut  in  half  es,  round  the  top  of  the 
pie ;  and  instead  of  putting  in  water,  put  strong  gravy.  After 
the  pies  are  baked,  pour  in  through  a  funnel  any  of  Uie  rarious 
Gravies,  Sauces,  &c. έΑΦ Truffles,  Mushrooms,  Wioe,  Spices, 
Pickles,  &c.  are  also  added.     See  also  (Nos.  396  (o  40^) 

Mem. έΑΦ These  are  dishes  contrived  rather  to  exc'ile  AppelUe, 
than  tq  satisfy  it.  Putting  Meat  or  Poultry  into  a  Pie  is  cer- 
tainly the  very  worst  way  of  cooking  it : έΑΦ it  is  often  baked  to 
rags  : έΑΦ and  very  rarely  indeed  does  a  Savoury  Pie  come  to 
table  that  deserves  to  be  introduced  to  the  Stomach. 

(No.  13.)  Pigton  or  Lark  Pie, 

TruBs  half  a  dozen  fine  large  Pigeons  as  for  stewing,  season 
them  with  Pepper  and  Salt,  and  fill  them  with  Veal  Stuffing 
(No.  375),  or  some  Parsley  chopped  very  fine,  and  a  little  Pep- 
per, Salty  and  three  ounces  of  Butter  mixed  together :  lay  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  a  Rump  Steak  of  about  a  pound  weight,  cut 
into  pieces  and  trimmed  neatly,  seasoned  and  beat  out  with  a 
chopper ;  on  it  lay  the  Pigeons,  the  Yolks  of  three  Eggs  boiled 
hard,  and  a  gill  of  Broth  or  Water ;  wet  the  edge  of  the  dish, 
and  cover  it  over  with  Puff-paste,  (No.  1),  or  the  paste  as 
directed  for  seasoned  Pies  (No.  S),  wash  it  over  with  Yolk  of 
Egg,  and  ornament  it  with  leaves  of  paste,  and  the  feet  of  the 
Pigeons ;  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  heated  oven : 
before  it  is  sent  to  table  make  an  aperture  in  the  top,  and  pour 
in  some  good  Gravy  quite  hot. 

(No.  14.)  GihUt  Pie. 

Clean  well,  and  half  stew  two  or  three  sets  of  Goose  Giblets ; 
cut  the  Leg  in  two, έΑΦ the  Wing  and  Neck  into  three, έΑΦ and  the 
Gizzard  into  four  pieces ;  preserve  the  liquor,  and  set  the  giblets 
by  till  cold,  otherwise  the  heat  of  the  giblets  will  spoil  the  pasta 
you  cover  the  pie  with :έΑΦ then  season  the  whole  with  black 
pepper  and  salt,  and  pot  them  into  a  deep  dish ;  cover  it  with 
paste  as  directed  (No.  2),  rub  it  over  vftth  yolk  of  Egg,  orna- 
ment and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  ia 
the  meantime  take  the  liquor  the  giblets  mre  stewed  in,  skim 


/" 


Afftnixx^  PASTRY,  &c.  373 

it  free  from  fat,  pot  it  over  a  fire  in  a  clean  stewpan,  thicken  it  a 
little  with  Flour  and  Butter,  or  Flour  and  Water,8eabon  it  with 
Pepper  and  Salt,  and  the  Juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  add  a  few 
drops  of  browning,  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  you 
take  the  pie  from  the  oven,  pour  some  of  this  into  it  through  a 
funnel.  Some  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  a  moderately  thick 
Hump  Steak  : έΑΦ if  you  have  any  cold  Game  or  PouUry,cutit  in 
pieces,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

(No.  15.)  Rump  Steak  Pie. 

Cut  three  pounds  of  Rump  Steak  (that  has  been  kept  till 
tender)  into  pieces  half  as  big  as  your  hand,  trim  ofi^all  the  skin^ 
sinews,  and  every  part  which  has  not  indisputable  pretensions 
to  be  eaten,  and  beat  them  with  a  chopper.  Chop  very  fine 
half  a  dozen  Eshallots,  and  mix  them  with  half  an  ounce  of 
Pepper  and  Salt  mixed,  strew  some  of  the  mixture  at  the  bottom 
of  the,  dish,  then  a  layer  of  Steak,  then  some  more  of  the  mix┬τ 
ture,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full ;  add  half  a  gill  of  Mushroom 
Catsup, and  the  same  quantity  of  Gravy,  or  Red  Wine,  cover 
it  as  in  the  preceding  receipt,  and  bake  it  two  hours. 

N.B.  Large  Oysters,  parboiled,  bearded,  and  laid  alternately 
with  the  Steaks,έΑΦ their  liquor  reduced  and  substituted  instead 
of  the  Catsup  and  Wine,  will  be  a  variety. 

(No.  16.)  Chicken  Pie, 

Parboil  and  then  cut  up  neatly  two  Young  Chickens έΑΦ dry 
ihemέΑΦ set  them  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes έΑΦ have  ready 
some  Veal  Stuffing  or  Forcemeat  (No.  374  or  375),  lay  it  at 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  place  in  the  Chickens  upon  it,  and 
with  it  some  pieces  of  dressed  Ham ;  cover  it  with  Paste, 
(No.  I).  Bake  it  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours έΑΦ when 
sent  to  table  add  some  good  Gravy,  well  seasoned  and  not  too 
thick. 

Duck  Pie  is  made  in  like  manner,  only  substituting  the 
Duck  stuffing  (No.  378),  instead  of  the  Veal. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  put  into. a  raised  French  Crust 
(see  No.  18),  and  Baked  ;  when  done  take  off  the  top,  and  put 
atagout  of  Sweetbread  to  the  Chicken. 

(No.  17  )  EabbU  Pie. 

Made  in  the  same  way,  but  make  a  Forcemeat  to  cover  the 

bottom  of  the  dish,  by   pounding  a  quarter  pound  of  boiled 

Bacon  with  the  Livers  of  the  Rabbits ;  some  Pepper  and  Salt, 

some  pouoded  Mace,  some  chopped  Parsley,  and  a  Shallot, 

52* 


374  PASTRY,  &c.  [Appendix. 

tborougbly  beaten  together ;  and  you  may  lay  some  thin  sliced 
of  ready  dressed  Ham  or  fiacoo  oa  the  top  of  your  Rabbits. 

(No.  18.)  Raised  French  Pie. 

Make  about  two  pounds  of  Flour  into  a  Paste,  as  directed 
(No.  5)  ; έΑΦ knead  it  well,  and  ioto  the  shape  of  a  Ball, έΑΦ ^press 
your  thumb  into  the  centre,  and  work  it  by  degrees  into  any 
shape  (oval  or  round  is  the  roost  general,)  till  about  five  inches 
high, έΑΦ put  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  fill  it  with  coarse  Flour 
or  Bran, έΑΦ roll  out  a  covering  for  it  about  the  same  tfaiclness 
as  the  sides, έΑΦ cement  its  sides  with  the  Yolk  of  Egg,έΑΦ cut  the 
edges  quite  even,  and  pinch  it  round  with  the  finger  and  thumb, 
-^yolk  of*  egg  it  over  with  a  Paste  brush,  and  ornament  \l  \il 
any  way  as  fancy  may  direct,  with  the  same  kind  of  paste. 
Bake  it  of  a  fine  brown  colour,  in  a  slow  oven,  and  when  done, 
cut  out  the  top,  remove  the  Flour  or  Bran,  brush  it  quite  cleao, 
and  fill  it  up  with  a  Fricassee  of  Chicken,  Rabbit,  or  any  other 
Entree  most  convenient.  Send  it  to  table  with  a  Napkin  un- 
der. 

(No.  1 9.)  Raised  Ham  Pie. 

Soak  four  or  6ve  hours  a  small  Ham έΑΦ wash  and  scrape  it 
well έΑΦ cutoff  the  Knuckle,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour έΑΦ then 
take  it  up  and  trim  it  very  neatly έΑΦ take  off  the  rind  and  put  it 
into  an  oval  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  Madeira  or  Sherry,  and 
enough  Veal  stock  to  cover  it.  L#et  it  stew  for  two  hours,  or  till 
three  parts  done έΑΦ take  it  out  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place έΑΦ then 
raise  a  Crust  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  large  enough  to  re- 
ceive it έΑΦ put  in  the  Ham έΑΦ and  round  it  the  Veal  Forcemeat έΑΦ 
cover  and  ornament έΑΦ it  will  take  about  one  hour  and  a  half  (o 
bake  in  a  slow  oven :  when  done  take  off  the  cover έΑΦ glaze  the 
top,  and  pour  round  the  following  sauce,  viz.  Take  the  Liquor 
the  Ham  was  stewed  in έΑΦ skim  it  free  from  Fat έΑΦ thicken  with 
a  little  Flour  and  Butter  mixed  together έΑΦ a  few  drops  of 
Browning,  and  some  Cayenne  Pepper. 

P.  S.  The  above  is,  I  think,  a  good  way  of  dressing  a  small 
Ham,  and  has  a  good  effect  cold  for  a  Supper. 

(No.  20.)  Veal  and  Ham  Pie, 

Take  two  pounds  of  Veal  Cutlet έΑΦ cut  them  in  middling 
sized  pieces έΑΦ ^season  with  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt ;  like- 
wise one  of  Raw  or  dressed  Ham  cut  in  slices έΑΦ lay  it  alter- 
ziately  in  the  dish,  and  put  some  Forced  or  Sausage  Meat  (No. 
.374  or  375)  at  the  top,  with  some  stewed  Button  Mush- 


Appendix.y  pastry,  &c.  375 

rooms,  and  the  yolk  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  gill  of  wa-  έΨι 

ter,  and  proceed  as  with  Rump  Steak  Pie.  ' 

N.  B.  The  best  end  of  a  Neck,  is  a  fine  part  for  a  Pie^  cut  I 

into  chops,  and  the  Chine  Bone  taken  away. 

(No.  2 1 .)  Raised  Pork  Pie. 

Make  a  raised  crust,  of  a  good  size,  with  paste,  as  directed 
(No.  5),  about  four  inches  high έΑΦ take  the  rind  and  Chine  Bone 
from  a  Loin  of  Pork,  cut  it  into  chops,  beat  them  with  a  chop- 
per, season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  your  Pie  ;  put 
on  the  top  and  close  it,  and  pinch  it  round  the  edge,  rub  it  over 
with  yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  two  hours  with  a  paper  over  to 
prevent  the  crust  from  burning.  When  done,  pour  in  some 
good  Gravy,  with  a  little  ready  mixed  Mustard  (if  approved.) 

N.  B.  As  the  above  is  generally  eaten  cold,  it  is  an  excellent 
repast  for  a  journey,  and  will  keep  for  several  days. 

(No.  22.)  Eel  Pie. 

Take  Eels  about  half  a  pound  each, έΑΦ skin,  wash,  and  trim 
off  the  fin  with  a  pair  of  scissors, έΑΦ cut  them  into  pieces  three 
inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  your 
dish,  leaving  out  the  Heads  and  Tails.  Add  a  gill  of  water  or 
Veal  Broth,  cover  it  with  Paste  (No.  2,)  rub  it  over  with  a 
Paste  Brush  dipped  in  yolk  of  egg,  ornament  it  with  some  of 
the  same  paste,  bake  it  an  hour,  and  when  done,  make  a  hole  in 
the  centre,  and  pour  in  the  following  sauce  through  a  funnel ; 
έΑΦThe  trimmings  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  Veal  Stock,  season- 
ed with  pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  Lemon  Juice,  and 
thickened  with  fiour  and  water,  strained  through  a  fine  sieve-έΑΦ 
add  it  boiling  hot. 

(No.  23.)  Haised  Lamb  Pies. 

Bone  a  Loin  of  Lamb,  cut  into  cutlets,  trim  them  very 
nicely,  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew  or  frying  pan┬╗ 
with  an  ounce  of  Butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Juice,  and 
some  pepper  and  salt ;  put  them  over  a  fire,  and  turn  them  and 
^"i  them  to  cool ;  then  raise  four  or  five  small  Pies  with  Paste, 
(No  6,)  about  the  size  of  a  Tea-cup,  put  some  Veal  Force- 
sat  at  the  bottom,  and  the  Cutlets  upon  it ;  roll  out  the  top 
1  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,close  and  pioch  the  edges┬╗  bake  them 
eilf  an  hour,  and  when  done,  take  on  the  top,  and  pour  in  some 
iood  Brown  Sauce, 


376  PASTRY,  &έΓυέΑλ  [Afpendix. 

(No.  d4.)  Beef  SUak  Pudding. 

Get  Ramp  Steaks,  not  too  thick,  beat  them  with  a  chopper, 
cot  them  into  pieces  about  half  the  fiize  of  year  haod,  and  trim 
off  all  the  ekio,  sioews,  Sec, ;  hare  ready  an  Ooiod  peeled  and 
chopped  fine,  likewise  some  Potatoes  peeled  and  cut  into  6lioa^ 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  rub  the  inside  of  a  Basin  or  an  onl 

Kin  moukl  with  Batter,  sheet  it  with  paste  as  directed  for 
iied  Puddings  (No.  7 ;)  season  the  Steaks  with  ppper,  salt, 
and  a  little  grated  Nutmeg ;  put  in  a  layer  of  Steali^  then  anoth- 
er of  Potatoes,  and  so  on  till  it  is  foil,  occasiooai/y  throwing  in 
part  of  the  chopped  Onion  ; έΑΦ add  to  it  half  a  gill  of  Mushroom 
Catsop,  a  tablespoonful  of  Lemon  Pickle,  and  bal?  a  gl\l  of 
Water  or  Veal  Broth  ;  roll  out  a  top,  and  close  it  weU  to  pre- 
vent the  water  getting  in ;  rinse  a  clean  cloth  in  hot  watn*, 
sprinkle  a  little  fiour  over  it,  and  tie  up  the  Pudding,  have 
ready  a  large  pot  of  water  boiling,  put  it  in,  and  boil  it  two 
hours  and  a  half,  take  it  up,  remove  the  cloth,  turn  it  down- 
wards in  a  deep  dish,  and  when  wanted  take  away  the  baaa 
or  mould. 

(No.  25.)  Vol  au  Vent. 

Roll  off  Tart  Paste  (No.  3),  till  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  then  with  a  Tin  Cutter  made  for  that  purpose^  (about  the 
size  of  the  bottom  of  the  dish  you  intend  sending  to  table,)  cut 
out  the  shape,  and  lay  it  on  a  baking  plate  with  paper,  rub  it 
over  with  yolk  of  egg;  roll  out  good  Puff  Paste  (No.  1,)  an 
inch  thick,  stamp  it  with  the  same  Cutter,  and  lay  it  on  the 
Tart  Paste,  then  take  a  Cutter  two  sizes  smaller,  and  press  it 
in  the  centre  nearly  through  the  Puff  Paste ;έΑΦ rub  the  top  with 
yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty  minutes, 
of  a  light  brown  colour :  when  done,  take  out  the  paste  inside 
the  centre  mark,  preserving  the  top,  put  it  on  a  dish  in  a  warm 
place,  add  when  wanted,  fili  it  with  a  White,  Fricassee  of 
Chicken  Rabbit,  Ragout  of  Sweetbread,  or  any  other  ┬μntrce 
you  wish. 

(No.  26.)  Oyster  Paiiies. 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  ioto 
squares  with  a  knife,  sheet  eight  or  ten  Patty  Pans,  ptU  upon 
each  a  bit  of  bread  the  size  of  half  a  walnut ;  roll  out  aaoiher 
layer  of  paste  of  the  same  thickness,  cut  it  as  above,  wet  the 
edge  of  the  bottom  paste,  and  put  On  the  top,  pare  them  round 
to  the  pan,  and  notch  them  about  a  doz^n  times  with  the  back  ' 


Jlfpendix.^  i┬╗astry,  &c.  377 

of  the  koife,  rub  them  lightly  with  yolk  of  egg,  bake  them  in  a 
hoto?eo  about  aquarter  of  ao  hour  :  wheo  dooe,  take  a  thia 
slice  off  the  top,  tbeo  with  a  small  kuife  or  spoon  take  out  the 
bread  and  the  inside  paste,  leaving  the  outside  quite  entire ;  then 
parboil  two  dozen  of  Large  Oysters,  strain  them  from  their  li- 
quor, wash,  beard,  and  cut  them  intp  four,  put  them  into  a 
.stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  Batter  rolled  in  Flour,  half  a  gill  of 
good  Cream,  a  little  grated  Lemon  Peel,  the  Oyster  Liquor, 
free  from  sediment,  reduced  by  boiling  to  one  half,  some  Cay- 
enne Pepper,  Salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Lemon  Juice  ;  stir  it 
over  a  fire  fiv┬τ  minutes,  and  fill  the  Patties. 

(No.  ^7.)  Lobster  Patties. 

Prepare  the  Patties  as  in  the  last  receipt.  Take  a  Hen  Lob^ 
ster  already  bolted έΑΦ pick  the  meat  from  the  Tail  and  Claws, 
and  chop  it  line ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  of  the  in- 
side spawn  pounded  in  a  mortar  till  quite  smooth,  with  an  ounce 
of  fresh  Butter,  half  a  gill  of  Cream,  and  half  a  gill  of  Veal 
Consomme,  Cayenne  Pepper,  and  Salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  Es- 
sence of  Anchovy^  the  same  of  Lemon  Juice,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  Flour  and  water,  and  stew  it  five  minutes. 

(No.  28.)  Ved  and  Ham  Patties, 

Chop  about  six  ounces  of  ready  dressed  lean  Veal,  and  three 
ounces  of  Ham,  very  small, έΑΦ put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an 
ounce  of  Butter  rolled  in  flour,  half  a  gill  of  Cream,  half  a  gill 
of  Veal  Stock,  a  little  grated  Nutmeg  and  Lemon  Peel,  some 
Cayenne  Pepper  and  Salt,  a  spoonful  of  Essence  of  Ham  and 
Lemon  Juice,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  some  time,  taking  care  it 
does  not  burn. 

(No.  29.)  Chicken  and  Ham  Patties, 

Use  the  White  Meat  from  the  Breast  of  Chickens  or  Fowls, 
and  proceed  as  in  the  last  receipt. 

(No.  30.)  Ripe  FruU  Tarts. 

Gooseberries,  Damsons,  Morello  Cherries,  Currants,  mixed 
with  Raspberries,  Plums,  Green  Gages,  White  Plums,  &c, 
should  be  quite  fresh,  picked  and  washed.  Lay  them  fn  the 
dish  with  the  centre  highest,  and  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Moist  or  Loaf  Sugar,  pounded  to  a  quart  of  fruit  (but  if  quite 
ripe  they  will  not  require  so  much :)  add  a  little  water έΑΦ rub 
the  edges  of  the  dish  with  yolk  of  Egg έΑΦ cover  it  with  Tart  Paste 
(No.  4;)  abojjt  half  an  inch  thick έΑΦ press  your  thumb  round  the 


378  PASTRY,  &c.  [Appendix. 

rim,  and  dose  it  well : έΑΦ pare  it  round  with  a  knife,  make  a 
kole  in  the  siJes  below  the  rim, έΑΦ bake  it  in  a-  moderate  heat- 
ed Of  en  ;  and  ten  minules  before  it  is  done,  take  it  out  and  ice 
it,  and  return  it  to  the  oven  to  dry. 

(No.  31.)      Icing  for  Fruit  Tarts,  Puffs,  or  Pasty, 

Beat  op  in  a  half  pint  mug  the  White  of  tvvo  Eggs  to  a  solid 
froth  ; έΑΦ lay  some  on  the  middle  of  the  Pie  with  a  paste  brush, 
sift  over  plenty  of  pounded  Sugar,  and  press  it  down  with  the 
haiid,r-*wa&h  out  the  brush,  and  splash  by  degrees  with  water 
till  ihe  Sugar  is  dissolved, έΑΦ and  put  it  in  the  oven  for  ten  min^ 
utes,  and  serve  it  up  cold. 

(No.  32.)  Apjilt  Pie. 

Take  eight  Russettings,  or  Lemon  Pippin  Apples, έΑΦ pare-, 
core,  and  cut  not  smaller  than  quarters  ;  place  them  as  close  as 
possible  together  into  a  pie-dit^b,  with  four  Cloves ;  rub  togeth- 
er  in  a  mortar  some  Lemon  Peel,  with  four  ounces  of  good 
Moist  Sugar,  and,  if  agreeable,  add  some  Quince  Jam, έΑΦ cover 
it  with  Puff  Paste έΑΦ bake  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  (Geoeraiiy 
eaten  warm.) 

(No.  33.)  Apple  Tart  Creamed, 

Use  green  Codlings  in  preference  to  any  other  Apple,,  and 
proceed  as  in  the  last  Receipt.  When  the  pie  is  done,  cut  out 
the  whole  of  the  centre,  leaving  the  edges ;  when  cold,  pour  on 
the  Apple  some  rich  Boiled  Custard,  and  place  round  it  some 
small  leaves  of  pufT  paste  of  a  light  colour. 

(No.  34.)  Tartlets,  such  as  are  made  at  the  Pastry  Cooks. 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  (No.  1.),  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
cut  it  into  pieces,  and  sheet  pans  about  the  size  of  a  Crown 
piece,  pare  them  round  with  a  knife,  and  put  a  small  qfiantity 
of  Apricot, έΑΦ Damson, έΑΦ Raspberry, έΑΦ Strawberry, έΑΦ Apple, έΑΦ 
Marmalade,έΑΦ or  any  other  kind  of  Jam  (No.  92,)  in  the  cen- 
tre: take  Paste  (No.  7,)  and  string  them  crossways,  bake 
them  from  six  to  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  they  should  be 
of  a  Yery  light  brown  colour. 

(No.  35.)         French  Tart  of  Preserved  Fruit. 

Cover  a  Flat  Dish  or  Tourte  Pan  with  Tart  Paste  (Na  4,) 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  roll  out  puff  paste  (No*  I.)  half 
an  inch  thick,  cut  it  out  in  strips  an  inch  wide,  wet  the  Tart 
Paste,  and  lay  it  neatly  round  the  pan  by  way  of  a  rim ;  fill 
the  centre  with  Jam  or  Marmalade  of  any  kind,  ornanient  it 


JppendixJ]  pastry,  &c┬τ  379 

with  small  leaves  of  Puff  Paste,  bake  it  halfanbooryADd  eeod 
it  to  table  cold. 

N.  B.  The  above  may  be  filled  before  the  Puff  Paste  is 
laid  OD,  neatly  strong  with  Paste  as  (No.  7,)  and  the  rim  pot 
over  after, 

06s.έΑΦ The  most  general  way  of  sending  Tonrtes  to  table, 
is  with  a  Croquante  of  Paste  (No.  86┬τ)  or  a  Caramel  of  spun 
Sugar  J[No.  85^  j>nt  over  after  it  is  baked. 

(No.  S6.)  Small  Puffi  of  Preserved  FrwU. 

Roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  good  puff  Paste  (No.  1,) 
and  cut  it  into  pieces  four  inches  square,  lay  a  small  quantity  of 
any  kind  of  Jam  on  each έΑΦ double  ihem  over,  and  cut  them  in- 
to square,  triangle,  or  with  a  tin  cutter,  half  moons έΑΦ lay  them 
with  paper  on  a  baking  plate έΑΦ ^ice  them  as  at  (No.  31) έΑΦ bake 
them  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  not  to  colour  the  icing. 

(No.  37.)  Cranberry  Tart. 

Take  Swedish,  American,  or  Russian  Cranberries,  pick  and 
wash  them  in  several  waters,  put  them  into  a  dish,  with  the  juice 
of  half  a  Lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Moist  or  pounded 
'Loaf  Sugar,  to  a  quart  of  Cranberries.  Cover  it  with  Puff  (No. 
1,)  or  Tart  Paste  (No.  4,)  and  bake  it  three  quarters -of  an 
έΑλliour ;  if  Tart  Paste  is  used,  draw  it  from  the  oven  five  minutes 
'before  it  is  done,  and  ice  it  as  (No.  31,)  return  it  to  the  oven, 
>and  send  it  -to  table  cold. 

(No.  38<)  Mtncfi  Pies. 

Sheet  with  Tart  P^iste  (No.  4,)  half  a  dozen  of  tin  pans  of 
any  size  you  please έΑΦ fill  them  with  Mincemeat  (No.  39,)  and 
cover  with  Puff  Paste,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, έΑΦ trim  round 
the.  edges  with  a  kpife,  make  an  aperture  at  the  top  wUh  a  fork, 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  heated  oven,  and  send  them  4o  table 
hot,  first  removing  the  tin. 

N.  B.  Somethrow  a  little-sifted  Loaf  Sugar  over. 

(No.  39.)  Mince  Meat. 

Two  pounds  of  'Beef  Suet,  picked  and  chopped  fine  ;  two 
pounds  of  Apple,  pared,  cored,  and  ditto  ;  three  pounds  of 
Currants,  washed  and  picked;  one  pound  of  Raisins,  stoned 
and  chopped  fine ;  one  pound  of  good  Moist  Sugar ;  half  a 
pound  of  Citron,  cut  into  thin  slices  ;  one  pound  of  Candied 
jLemon  and  Orange  Peel,  cut  as  ditto :  two  pouod-s  of  ready 
'dressed  Roast  Beef,  free  from  skin  and  gristle,  and  chopped  fine ; 


380  PAStKY,  &c.  [Appendijh 

two  Notmegs  gtited;  dne  oaoceof  Salt ;  6ne  of  groimd  Gin- 
ger ;  half  an  ounce  of  Coriander  Seeds  ;  half  an  ounce  of  All- 
spice ;  half  an  ounce  of  Cloves;  all  ground  fine :  the  juice  of 
SIX  Lemons,  and  their  rinds  grated ;  half  a  pint  of  Brandy,  and 
a  pint  of  sweet  Wine.  Mix  the  Suet,  Apple,  Currants,  Meat, 
Pjums,  and  Sweetmeats  well  together  in  a  large  pan,  and  strew 
in  the  Spice  by  degrees :  mix  the  Sugar,  Lemon  Juice,  Wine, 
and  Brandy,  and  pour  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  stir  it  well 
togetherέΑΦ set  it  by  in  close  covered  pans  in  a  cold  place :  when 
wanted,  stir  it  ap  from  the  bottom,  and  add  half  a  gUaa  of 
Brandy  to  the  quantity  you. want. 

N    B.  The  same  weight  of  Tripe  is  frequently  substituted 
for  (be  Meat,  and  sometimes  the  yolks  of  Eggs  boiled  hard. 

Oba.  The  lean  side  of  a  Buttock,  thoroughly  roasted,  is  gen- 
erally chosen  for  Mince  Meat. 

(No.  40.)  Cheesecakes. 

Put  two  quarts  of  New  Milk  into  a  stewpan,  set  it  near  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonfiils  of  rennet ;  let  it  stand  till  it 
is  sot  This  will  take  about  an  hour ;  break  it  w^l  with  your 
band,  and  let  it  remain  half  an  hour  longer,  then  poor  off  the 
whey,  and  put  the  curd  into  a  cullender  to  drain  ;  when  quits 
dryέΑΦ put  it  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  it  quite  smooth,  then  add 
four  ounces  of  Sugar,  pounded  and  sifted  :  and  three  oaoees  of 
fresh  Butter,  oil  it  first  by  putting  it  in  a  little  potting  pot,  and 
setting  it  near  the  fire ;  stir  it  all  well  together :  beat  the  yo\ka 
of  four  Eggs  io  a  basin,  with  a  little  Nutmeg  grated.  Lemon 
Peel,  and  a  glass  of  Brandy  :  add  this  to  the  curd,  with  two 
ounces  of  Currants,  washed  and  picked έΑΦ stir  it  all  well  tog^th- 
er^-have  your  tins  ready  lined  with  Puff  Paste  (No.  1,)  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  notch  them  all  round  the  edge,  and 
fill  each  with  the  curd.     Bake  them  twenty  minutes. 

When  you  have  company,  and  want  a  variety,  you  can  maio 
a  Mould  of  Curd  and  Cream,  by  putting  the  curd  in  ┬τ 
Mould  fufl  of  holes,  instead  of  the  cullender;  let  it  stand  for  s\x 
hours,  and  then  turn  it  out  very  carefully  on  a  dish,  and  pour 
over  it  half  a  pint  of  good  Cream,  sweetened  with  Loaf  Sugar 
έΑΦ and  a  little  Nutmeg.  What  there  is  left,  if  set  in  a  cool  plac^ 
will  make  excellent  cheesecakes  the  next  day. 

(No.  4 1 .)  Lemon  Cheesecakes, 

Grate  the  rind  of  three,  and  take  the  juice  of  two  Lemons, 
And  mix  them  with  three  Sponge  Biscuits,  six  ounces  of  Fresh 


p""r- 


Jfypendix.]  pastry,  &c.  381 

Butter,  four  ounces  of  sifted  Sugar,  a  little  grated  Nutmegp  aid 
pounded  Cinnamon,  half  a  gill  of  Cream,  find  three  egg┬τ  well 
beaten*  work  them  with  the  band,  and  fill  the  pant,  wbiek 
must  be  sheeted  as  in  the  last  receipt  with  Puff  Paste,  and  \%f 
two  or  three  slices  of  Candied  Lemon  Peel,  cut  thin,  upon  the 
top, 

(No.  42.)  Orange  (^Meeake^. 

.  To  \)e  made  in  the  sa^e  way,  omitting  tbe  liemon^i  anj 
using  Oranges  instead. 

(No.  43*)  MmQnd  Chees^ofjcet^ 

Blanch  six  ounces  of  Sweet  and  half  ao  oaoee  of  BiMer 
Almonds;  let  them  lie  half  an  hour  in  a  drying  stove,  or 
before  the  fir&;  pound  them  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  with  tw┬╗ 
tablespooaeful  of  Rose  or  Orange  Flower  Water,  to  preveAt 
them  from  oiling  ;  put  iato  a  stewpan  half  a  ponad  of  IWh 
Butter,  put  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  cream  it  very  smooth  with 
the  hand,  and  add  it  tetbe  Almonds,  with  six  ounces  of  sifted 
Loaf  Sugar,  a  little  grated  Lemon  Pee),  some  good  Cream^ 
iPeur  Eggs,  rub  alrl  wett  together  with  tbe  pestle ;  corer  a  patty 
pan  with  Puff  Paste,  fill  in  the  mixture,  ornament  it  with  ekicea 
of  Candied  Lemon  Peel  and  Almpnds  split,  and  baiiehAlfeQi 
hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 

(No.44.)    MiUe  Feuillesj  or  a  Pyramid  of  Fd$U. 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  (No.  1,)  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with 
a  cutter  made  for  the  purpose,  in  the  shape  of  an  oval,  octtr. 
gon,  square,  diamond,  or  any  other  form  (and  to  be  got  of  most 
tinmen^  observing  to  Ie4  tbe  first  piece  be  as  large  as  the  bottoai 
of  the  dish  you  intead  sending  it  to  table  on  ;  the  second  pieco 
a  size  smaller,  aad  so  in  proportion,  till  the  last  i^  about  tbo 
size  of  a  shilling  ;  lay  them  with  paper  on  a  baking  plate, 
yolk  of  egg  the  top,  aad  bake  them  of  a  Hgbt  brown  colour  ; 
take  them  from  the  paper,  and  when  cokl  put  the  largest  size  i^ 
the  di┬╗h,  then  a  layer  of  Apricot  Jam  ;  then  the  next  size,  a 
layer  of  Raspberry  Jam,  and  so  on,  varying  the  Jam  between 
each  layer  of  Paste  to  the  top,,  on  which  place  a  bunch  of  dried 
fruit,  and  spin  a  jG^rat^el  (Nf .  85)  of  Sugar  over  it* 

(No.  45.)  Bvurmwiok  TfMrU. 

Make  a  Crust  as  for  Vol  au  Vent  (No.  26,)  pare  aod  core 
with  a  scoop  eight  or  teu  Golden  Pippins,  put  them  into  a 


383  PASTRY,  &c.  [^AppendUf* 

stewpaOy  with  a  gill  of  Sweet  Wioe,  and  foar  ounces  of  sifted 
Loaf  Sugar,  a  bit  of  Lemoo  Peel,  a  small  stick  of  Ciaoa- 
inon,  and  a  blade  of  Mace,  stew  them  o?er  a  slow  fire  till  the 
Apples  are  tender ;  set  tbem  by  ;  when  cold,  place  them  in 
the  Paste,  and  pour  round  them  some  good  Custard  No.  53. 

(No.  46.)  Bbncmange.  .     , 

Boil  a  few  minutes  a  pint  and  a  half  of  New  Milk,  with  an 
ounce  of  picked  Isinglass  (if  in  summer  one  ounce  and  a  quar- 
ter,) the  rind  of  half  a  Lemon  peeled  ?ery  tbio,  a  little  Cinna- 
nio┬╗,  and  a  blade  of  Mace,  and  two  and  a  half  ounces  of 
Lump  Sugar ;  blanch  and  pound  eight  or  ten  Bitter,  aod 
half  an  ounce  of  Sweet  Almonds  very  fine,  with  a  spoonful 
of  Rose  Water,  and  mix  them  with  the  Milk,  strain  it  through 
a  laWn  sieve  or  napkin  into  a  baun,  with  half  a  pint  of  good 
Oeam,  1^  it  stand  half  an  hour,  pour  it  into  another  iMsin^ 
teafing  the  sediment  at  the  bottom,  and  when  nearly  cold  fill  it 
into  moulds :  when  wanted  put  your  finger  round  the  mould,, 
pall  out  the  blancmange,  set  it  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  aod  gar- 
Dish  with  slices  of  Orange. 

N.  B.  About  half  a  gill  of  Noyeau  may  be  substituted  for  the 
Almonds. 

(No.  47.)  Orange  Jelly. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  Water  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  picked 
Isinglass,  the  rind  of  an  Orange  cut  thin,  a  stick  6f  Cinoamon, 
a  few  Coriaoders,  and  three  ounces  of  Loaf  Sugar,  till  the  Isin- 
glass is  dissolved,  then  squeeze  two  Seville  Oranges  or  Lemoqs, 
and  anough  China  Oranges  to  make  a  pint  of  juire :  mix  all  to- 
gether^and  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or  lawn  sieve  into  a  ba-. 
sin  )  set  )l  in  a  cold  place  for  half  an  hour,  pour  it  ioto  another , 
basin  free  fi^pm  sediment έΑΦ and  when  it  begins  to  congeal,   ^U 
your  mould;  when  wanted, dip  the  moqid  into  lukewarm  wa- 
ter, turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  Orange  or  Lemoo 
cut  in  slices,  and  placed  round. 

N.  B.  A  few  grains  of  SafiVon  put  in  the  water  will  add 
much  to  its  appearance. 

(No.  48.)  Italian  Cream. 

Rub  on  a  lump  of  Sugar  the  rind  of  a  Lemon,  and  scrape  it 
off  with  a  knife  into  a  deep  dish,  or  china  bowl,  and  add  half  a 
gill  of  Brandy,  two  ounces  and  a  hajf  ol  sifted  Sugar,  the 
juioe  of  a  Lenoon,  and  a  pint  of  Double  Cream,  and  beat  it  up 
well  with  a  clean  whisk έΑΦ in  the  mean  time  boil  an  ounce  of 


Appendix."]  pastry,  &c.  383 

Isinglass  in  a  gill  of  Water  till  quite  dissolved,  strain  it  to  the 
other  ingredients,  beat  it  some  tune,  and  fill  your  mould,  and 
when  cold  and  set  wt-ll,  dish  it  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt. 

N.  B.  The  above  muy  be  flavoured  with  any  kind  of  liqueurj^ 
Raspberry,  Strawberry,  or  other  fruits,  coloured  with  preparedT 
Cochineal,  and  named  to  correspond  with  the  favour  given. 

(No.  49.)  Trifle. 

Mix  in  a  large  howl  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  Sugar,  the 
juice  of  a  Lemon,  some  of  the  peel  grated  fine,  half  a  gill  of 
Brandy,  and  ditto  of  Lisbon  or  Sweet  Wine,  and  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  gopd  Cream  ;  whisk  the  whole  well,  and  take  off  tbtf 
froth  as  it  rises  with  a  skimmer,  and  put  it  on  a  sieve,  continue 
to  whisk  it  till  yoa  have  enough  of  the  whip,  set  it  in  ┬τ  cool 
place  to  drain  three  or  four  hours  ;  then  lay  in  a  deep  dish  six 
or  eight  Sponge  Biscuits,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Ratafia,  two 
ounces  of  Jordan  Almonds,  blanched  and  split,  some  grated 
Nutmeg  and  Lemon  Peel,  Currant  Jelly  and  Raspberry  Jam, 
half  a  pint  of  Sweet  Wine,  and  a  little  Brandy ;  when  the 
cakes  have  absorbed  the  liquor,  pour  over  about  a  pint  of  Cus- 
tard, made  rather  thicker  than  for  Apple  Pie έΑΦ and,  when  want- 
ed,  lay  on  lightly  plenty  of  the  whip,  and  throw  over  a  few 
Nonpareil  Comfits. 

(No.  50.)  Whip  Sffllabuh. 

Make  a  whip  as  in  the  last  receipt ;  mix  with  a  pint  of 
Cream  half  a  pint  of  Sweet  Wine,  a  glass  of  Brandy,  the  juice 
of  a  Lemon,  grated  Nutmeg,  six  ounces  of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar : 
nearly  fill  the  custard  glasses  with  the  mixture,  and  lay  on  with 
a  spoon  some  of  the  whip. 

(No.  5L)  Chantilly  Basket. 

Dip  into  Sugar  boiled  to  a  caramel  f  see  No.  85),  small 
Ratafias,  stick  them  on  a  dish  in  what  form  you  please,  then 
take  Ratafias  one  size  larger,  and  having  dipped  them  into  the 
Sugar,  build  them  together  till  about  four  or  five  inches  high  ; 
make  a  rim  of  York  Drops  or  Drageas  of  Gum  Paste,  likewise 
a  handle  of  Sugar  or  Ratafia,  and  set  it  over  the  basket ;  line 
the  inside  with  wafer  paper,  and  a  short  time  before  it  is  want- 
ed fill  it  with  a  mixture  the  same  as  for  Trifle,  and  then  plenty 
of  good  Whip. 

(No.  52.)  Baked  Custard. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  Milk  a  few  Coriander  Seeds,  a  little  Cinna- 
mon, and  Lemon   Peel,  sweeten   with  four  ounces  of  Loaf 


3M  PASTKT,  &c┬τ  [Appendix* 

Su^r,  and  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  coM  Milk,  beat  well  eight 
Iggs  for  tea  mimites,  and  add  the  otb6r  logredieDts,  poor  it 
from  one  pan  ioto  another  six  or  eight  times,  strain  it  through  a 
aieve,  let  it  stand  aome  time,  skim  off  the  froth  from  the  top, 
fill  it  in  earthen  cups,  and  bake  them  immediately  in  a  hot  oven 
to  gi?e  them  a  good  colour,  about  ten  minutes  wilt  do  them. 

(No.  53.)  BoiUd  Ctutord. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  Milk,  five  minutes,  Lemon  Peel,  Corian- 
ders  and  Cinnamon,  a  small  quantity  of  each,  half  a  dozen  of 
Bitter  Almonds,  blanched  and  pounded ;  and  four  ounces  of 
Loaf  Sugar:  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  Cream,  the  joiks  of  tea 
Eggs,  and  the  whites  of  six  well  beaten,  pass  it  tfirou^  a  bait 
nmte^  stir  it  with  a  whisk  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  begins  to  thick- 
en, remoTe  it  from  the  fire,  and  continue  to  stir  it  till  nearly 
eold,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  Brandy,  fill  the  cups  or  glasses, 
and  grate  Nutmeg  over* 

(No.  54.)  Almond  Cuitards. 

Blanch  and  pound  fine,  with  a  gUl  of  Rose  Water,  fix 
ounces  of  Sweet  and  half  an  ounce  of  Bitter  Almonds,  boil  a 
pint  of  Milk  as  (No.  52),  sweeten  it  with  two  ounces  and  a 
half  of  8ugar┬╗  rub  the  Almonds  through  a  fine  aievo,  with  a 
pint  of  Cream,  strain  the  Milk  to  the  yolk  of  eight  Eggs,  and 
the  whites  of  three  well  beaten, έΑΦ stir  it  over  a  fire  till  it  is  of  a 
good  thickness,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  nearly  cold,  to 
prevent  it  curdling. 

N.  B.  The  above  may  be  baked  in  cups,  or  in  a  dish,  with  a 
rim  of  puff  paste  put  round. 

(No.  55.)  Twelfth  Cake, 

Two  pounds  of  sifted  B^our,  two  pounds  of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar, 
two  pounds  of  Butter,  eighteen  Egg?,  four  pounds  of  Currants, 
one  half  pound  of  Almonds,  blanched  and  chopped,  one  ha/f 
pound  Citron,  one  pound  of  Candied  Orange  and  Lemon  Peel, 
cut  into  thin  slices,  a  large  Nutmeg  grated,  half  an  ounce  ground 
Allspice;  ground  Cinnamon,  Mace,  Qinger, and  Corianders, a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each,  and  a  gill  of  Brandy. 

Put  the  Butter  in  a  stewpan,  in  a  warm  place,  and  work  it 
into  a  smooth  cream  with  the  hand,  and  mix  it  with  the  Sugar 
and  Spice  in  a  pan  (or  on  your  paste  board),  for  soipe  time  ; 
then  break  in  the^ggs  by  degrees^  and  beat  it  at  least  twenty 
minutes ; έΑΦ stir  in  thv  Brandy,  and  then  the  Flour,  and  work  it 
a  tittle  ;  add  the  Fruit,  Sweetmeats,  and  Aimonds,  and  mix  aB 


Appendix*'^  PASTRt,  &c┬τ  385 

together  ligfatty, έΑΦ have  ready  a  papar,  on  a  baking  plala,<^pirt 
tD  the  iDixture,9iiiooth  it  on  tbetop  with  yoilr  haQd---dippediDillt 
έΑΦ put  the  plate  on  another,  with,  aawdust  between,  to  preveoi 
the  botton  from  cotouriog  too  mucb,-έΑΦ bake  i^  in  a  alow  ovea* 
four  hours  or  more,  and  when  nearly  cold,  iae  it  with  (No.  84)^ 

Thid  mixture  would  make  a  handsome  cake,  full  twelve  or 
fourteen  inches  over. 

06s. έΑΦ If  made  in  cold  weather,  tbe  ^ggs  should  be  broke  in- 
to a  pan,  and  set  into  another  filled  with  hot  water ;  likewise 
the  fruit,  sweetmeats,  Almonds,  laid  in  a  warm  place,  otherwise 
it  may  chill  the  butter,  and  cause  tbe  cake  to  be  heavy. 

(No.  66.)  Bride  or  Wedding  Cake. 

The  only  difference  usually  made  in  these  Cakes  is,  the 
addition  of  one  pound  of  Raisins,  stoned  and  mixed  with  the 
other  fruit. 

(No.  67.)  PImn  Fwnd  Cake. 

Cream  as  in  (No.  66),  one  pound  of  Butter,  and  work.it 
well  together  with  one  pound  of  sifted  Sugar,  till  quite  smooth ; 
beat  up  nine  Eggs,  and  put  them  by  degrees  to  the  butter,  and 


*  The  goodness  of  a  Cake  or  Biscuit  depends  mueh  on  its  being  well 
Baked  ;  great  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  different  degrees  of  heat 
of  the  oven έΑΦ ^be  sure  to  have  it  of  a  good  sound  heat  at  first,  when,  af- 
ter its  being  well  cleaned  out,  may  be  baked  such  articles  as  required 
hot  oven,  after  which  such  as  are  directed  to  be  baked  in  a  Well  heat- 
ed or  moderate  oven,  and  lastly,  those  in  a  slow  soaking  or  cool  one. 
With  a  little  care  the  above  degrees  may  soon  be  known 

In  making  Butter  Cai(;e┬τ,  such  as  (Nos.  56,  57,  or  61),  too  much  at- 
tention cannot  be  paid  to  have  the  Butter  well  creamed,  for  should  it 
lie  made  too  warm,  it  would  cause  the  mixture  to  be  the  same,  and 
when  put  to  bake,  the  Fruit,  Sweetmeats,  &c.,  would  in  that  event  fall 
to  tbe  bottom. 

Yeoit  Cakes  should  be  welt  proved  before  put  intaith4diren,  as  they 
will  prove  bat  little  afterwards.  '  *  -έΑλ . 

In  making  J9wcut7^.and  Cakes,  where  Butter  is  not  used,  the  di/Ter- 
ent  utensils  should  be  kept  free  Arom  ail  kinds  of  Grease,  or  it  is  next 
to  impossible  to  have  good  ones. 

Ill -buttering' tbe  intidei  of  Cake  moulds,  the  butter  should  be  nicely 
clarified,  and  when  nearly  cold,  laid  on  quite  smooth,  with  a  smaU 
brush  kept  for  that  purpose.  < 

Sugar  and  Flour  dMiuld  be  quite  liry,  and  a  drum  sieve  is  Mcom- 
,9*eade4>ioi-.tl}e  Sugar.  The  qld  way  of  beating  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  l┬μggs  separate  ^except  in  very  few  cases),  is  not  only  useless,  but  a 
w  aste  bf  time.  Tney  should  l>e  well  incorporated  with  the  other  ingre* 
d  ients,  and  in  some  instances  they  cannot  be  beat  too  jqnicb. 
S3* 


S3S  PASTBT,  &c*  [Aj^eridid.. 

bittthtm  for  tw^Cy  minulcs  ;r-inix  in  lightly  ooe  poood  of 
FlourέΑΦ -put  the  whole- into  n  hoop,  cased  with  paper, oo  a 
bakiog  plate,  and  bake  it  about  one  hour  io  a  moderate  oven. 

Ad  ounee  of  Carraway  Seeds  added  to  the  above,  will  loabe 
what  is  termed  a  Rick  Seed  Cuke, 

(No.  58.)  Plum  Pound  Cake. 

Make  a  Cake  as  (No.  57),  and  when  you  have  beat  it,  mix 
ia  lightly  half  a  pound  of  Currants,  two  ounces  of  Orange,  and 
two  ounces  of  candied  Lemon  Peel  cut  small,  and  half  a  Nut- 
meg grated. 

(No.  59.)  Cotnmon  Seed  Cuke, 

Sift  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  Flour,  with  half  a  pound  of 
good  Lisbon  or  Loaf  Sugar,  pounded  into  a  pan  or  bowl,έΑΦ-- 
make  a  cavity  io  the  centre,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  luke- 
warm milk,  and  a  tablespoon ful  of  thick  yeast, έΑΦ mix  the  milk 
and  yeast  with  enough  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream  (this 
k  called  setting;  a  sponge),  set  it  by  in  a  wariA  place  for  one 
hourέΑΦ in  the  mean  time,  melt  to  an  oil  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
Batter,  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  one  ounce  of 
Carraway  Seeds,  and  enough  of  milk  to  make  it  of  a  middling 
stifTne^s; έΑΦ line  a  hoop  with  paper,  well  rubbed  over  with  but- 
terέΑΦ put  in  the  mixture έΑΦ set  it  some  time  to  prove  in  a  siowe^ 
or  before  the  lire,  and  bake  it  on  a  plate  about  an  hour,  io 
.rather  a  hot  oven, έΑΦ when  done,  rub  the  top  over  with  a  paste 
brush  dipped  in  milk. 

(No.  60.)  Rich  Yeast  Cake. 

Set  a  sponge  as  in  the  foregoing  Receipt,  with  the  same  pro- 
podions  of  Flour,  Sugar,  Milk,  and  Yeast, έΑΦ when  it  has  lain 
sometime,  mix  it  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Butter  oil- 
ed, one  poimd  and  a  quarter  of  Currants,  half  a  pound  of  can- 
died  Leroo┬╗itir>d  Orange  Peel  cut  6ne,  grated  Nutmeg,  ground 
Allspice  and' Cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each έΑΦ caseu 
a  hoop  as  stated  (No.  b9t)  bake  it  in  a  good  heated  oven  one 
hour  and  an  half. 

N.B.  It  may  be  Iced  with  (No.  84,)  and  ornamented  as  a 
Twelfth  Cake. 

(No.  61.)  Queen  or  Heart  Cakes^ 

One  pound  of  sifted  Sugar,  one  pound  of  Butter,  eight  Eggs, 
one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  Flour,  two  ounces  of  Curraots, 
and  half  a  Nutmeg  grated. 


Appendix  JJ  pastry,  &c┬τ  387 

Cream  the  butter  as  at  (No.  65,)  and  mix  it  weil  with  tb┬τ 
sugar  and  spice,  then  put  in  half  the  eggs,  and  beat  it  ten  mio- 
utea έΑΦ add  the  remainder  of  the  eggs,  and  work  it  ten  minutes 
longer έΑΦ stir  in  the  flour  lightly,  and  the  currants  afterwards, έΑΦ 
then  take  smiall  tin  pans  of  any  shape  (hearts  the  most  usual,) 
rub  the  inside  of  each  with  butter,  fill  and  bake  them  a  few  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven,on  a  sheet  of  matted  wire,  or  on  a  baking  plate 
έΑΦ when  done,  remove  them  as  early  as  possible  from  the  pans. 

No.  62.)  QuέΓυen*8  Drops. 

Leave  out  four  ounces  of  Flour  from  the  last  Receipt,and  add 
two  ounces  more  of  Currants,  and  two  ounces  of  candied  Peel, 
cut  small έΑΦ work  it  the  same  as  in  the  last  receipt,  and  when 
ready  put  the  mixture  into  a  Biscuit  funnel*,  and  lay  them  out 
in  drops  about  the  size  of  half  a  crown,  on  white  paper, έΑΦ bake 
them  in  a  hot  oven,  and  when  n^aHy  cu2d,  lake  tbvm  from  the 
paper. 

(No.  63.)  Shrewsbury  Cakes, 

Rub  well  together  one  pound  of  pounded  Sugar,  one  pound 
of  fresh  Butter,  and  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sifted  Flour, έΑΦ mix 
it  into  a  paste,  with  half  a  gill  of  milk  or  cream,  and  one  cgg,---^ 
let  it  lie  half  an  hour,  roll  it  out  thin,  cut  it  out  into  small  cakes 
with  a  tin  cutter,  about  three  inches  over,  and  bake  them  on  a 
clean  baking  plate  in  a  moderate  oven. 

(No.  64.)  Banbury  Cakes. 

Seta  sponge  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  thick  Yeast,  a  gill  of 
warm  Milk,  and  a  pound  of  Flour, έΑΦ when  it  has  worked  a 
little,  mix  with.it  half  a  pound  of  Currants,  washed  and  picked, 
half  a  pound  of  candied  Orang^e  and  Lemon  Peel  cut  small, 
one  ounce  of  Spice,  such  as  ground  Cinnamon,  Allspice,  Gin- 
ger, and  grated  Nutmeg:  mix  the  whole  together  with  half  a 
pound  of  Honey,  rollout  PuflP  Paste  (No.  1,)  a  quaner  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  it  into  rounds  with  a  cutter,  about  four  inches 
over,lay  on  each  with  a  spoon  a  small  quantity  of  the  mixture ; 
close  it  round  with  the  fingers  in  the  form  of  an  oval έΑΦ place  the 


*Take  fine  Brown  Holland,  and  make  a  bag  in  the  form  of  a  cone 
about  five  inches  over  at  the  top.  Cut  a  small  hole  at  the  bottom,  and 
tie  in  a  small  pipe  of  a  tapering  form,  about  two  inches  long ;  and  the 
bore  must  bie  lare^e  or  small  according  to  the  size  of  the  Biscuits  or 
Cakes  to  be  mode.  When  the  various  mixtures  are  put  in,  lay  tJLte 
pipe  close  to  the  paper,  and  press  it  out  into  rows. 

^έΑλme  use  a  BullocVs  Bladder  for  the  purpose. 


859  iwisTiVT,  dEC  lAppendiaff^ 

joiD  onderomlli έΑΦ press  it  fist  with  the  liaDd--┬τift  ┬τug┬τr  over, 
tod  bake  them  on  a  plate  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  ia  a  moderate 
oveoy  aad  of  a  light  coloar. 

(No.  65.)  Bath  Buns. 

Rub  together  with  the  band  one  pound  of  fine  Fiour,  aod 
half  a  pound  of  Butter-*  beat  six  Sggs,  and  add  them  to  the 
flour  &c.  with  a  tablespoooful  of  good  Yeast έΑΦ mix  them  all 
together,  with  about  half  a  teacupful  of  milk έΑΦ set  it  io  a  warm 
place  for  an  hour,  then  mix  io  six  ounces  of  sifted  Sugar,  and  a 
few  Carraway  SwdsέΑΦ -mookl  them  into  Bilns  with  a  talAespooD, 
on  a  clean  baking  plateέΑΦ throw  six  or  eight  Carraway  Com- 
fits on  each,  and  bake  tbem  rn  hot  oven  about  ten  minuteft. 
This  quantity  should  make  abouueighteeo. 

(No.  66.)  Sponge  Biscuits, 

Break  into  a  round -bottomed  Preserving  Pan*,  nine  good 
sized  Eggs,  with  one  pound  of  sifted  liOaf  Sugar,  and  some 
grated  Lemon  Peel ; έΑΦ set  the  pan  over  a  very  slow  fire,  and 
whisk  it  till  it  is  quite  warm  (but  not  too  hot  to  set  the  Eggs,) 
remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,and  whisk  it  till  cold,which  may  be 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  stir  in  the  flour  lightly  with  a  spat- 
tle,  previous  to  which,  prepare  the  sponge  frame  as  fbUows : 
έΑΦ-Wipe  them  well  out  with  a  clean  cloth έΑΦ rub  the  iosides  with 
a  brush  dipped  in  butter,  which  has  been  clarified,  and  sift 
loaf  sugar  over :  fill  the  frames  with  the  mixture,  throw  pound- 
ed sugar  over,  bake  tbem  five  minutes  .in  a  brisk  oven  ;  when 
done  uke  tbem  from  the  frames,  and  lay  them.on  a  sieve. 

(No.  67.)   Savoy  CakέΓυ^  or  Sponge  Cake  in  a  Mndd. 

Take  nine  Eggs,  tbeir  weight  of  Sugar,  and  six  of  Flour, 
some  grated  Lemon,  or  a  few  drops  of  Essence  of  Lemon, 
knd  half  a  gill  of  Orange-flower  Water, έΑΦ work  them  as  in  the 
last  receipt ; έΑΦ put  in  the  orange-flower  water  when  you  take 
it  from  the  fire  ; έΑΦ be  very  careful  the  mould  is  quite  dry  ; έΑΦ rub 
it  all  over  the  inside  with  Butler, έΑΦ put  some  pounded  Sugar 
round  the  mould  upon  the  butter,  and  shake  it  well  to  get  it  out 
of  the  crevices : έΑΦ tie  a  slip  of  paper  round  the  mould,  fill  it  threo 
parts  full  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  it  one  hour  in  a  slack 
OT┬τn  ; έΑΦ when  done,  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and  take 
it  from  the  mould,  which  poay  be  done  by  shaking  it  a  little. 


*  A  wide  mouthed  Earthen  Pan,Jwa^.4wijteiM)t  .uMl^  grep^  ^pm 
ore,  will  be  a  good  subttitate. 


} 


Appendix.]  PASTRT,  &c┬τ  SW 

(No.  68.)  Biscuit  Drops, 

Beat  well  together  in  a  paa  one  poaod  of  sifted  S┬τgar  with 
eight  Eggs  for  twenty  minutes ;  then  add  a  quarter  of  an  oonce 
of  Carraway  Seed,  and  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  Flour  ;-^ 
lay  wafer  paper  on  a  baking  plate, έΑΦ put  the  mixture  into  a  bis^ 
cuit  funnel,  and  drop  it  out  on  the  paper  about  the  size  of  half  a 
orowo,  sift  Sugar  over,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oved. 

(No.  69.)  Savoy  Biscuits, 

To  be  made  as  Drop  Biscuits,  omitting  the  carfaways  and 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour : έΑΦ put  it  into  the  biscuit  faanel, 
and  lay  it  out  about  the  length  and  size  of  your  finger,  on  com* 
mon  shop  paper ; έΑΦ strew  Sugar  over,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot 
oven  ;'^when  cold,  wet  the  backs  of  the  paper  with  a  paste*" 
brush  and  water :  when  laid  some  time,  take  them  carefully  oS, 
and  place  them  back  to  back. 

(No.  70.)  Italian  Macaroons, 

Take  one  pound  of  Valeotia,  or  Jordan  Almonds,  blanched, 
'έΑΦpound  them  quite  fine  with  the  whites  of  four  E^s,  add 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  sifted  Loaif  Sugar,  and  rub  them  weR 
together  with  (he  pe^ler^put  in  by  degrees  aibout  lea  oreleiveo 
more  whites,  working  them  well  as  you  pat  them  in  ;^έΑΦ but  thi 
best  criterion  to  go  by  ia  trying  their  'lightness,  is  lo  bake  έΑλne 
or  two,  and  if  you  find  them  heavy,  pat  one  or  two  moM 
whites  ;έΑΦ┬╗piit  the  mixture  into  a  biscuit  funnel,  and  lay  them 
out  on  wafer  paper,  in  fneces  about  the  size  of  a  snrall  walnut, 
having  ready  about  two  ounces  of  blanched  and  dry  Almonds 
cut  into  slips,-έΑΦ put  three  or  four  pieces  on  each,  and  bake  them 
on  wires,  or  a  Baking  Plate,  in  a  slow  oven. 

Ofo. έΑΦ Almonds  should  be  blanched  and  dried  gradually 
two  or  three  days  before  they  are  used,  by  which  means  they 
will  work  much  better, έΑΦ and  where  large  quantities  are  used,  it 
is  advised  to  grind  them  in  a  mill  provided  for  that  purpose. 

(No.  71.)  Ratafia  Cakes, 

To  half  a  pound  of  blanched  Bitter,  and  half  a  pound  of 
Sweet  Almonds,  put  the  Whites  of  four  Eggs, έΑΦ beat  them 

?uite  fine  in  a  mortar,  and  stir  in  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of 
ioaf  Sugar,  pounded  and  sifted, έΑΦ rub  them  well  together, 
with  the  whites  (by  degrees)  of  nine  Eggs  ;  (try  their  lightness 
as  in  the  last  receipt)  ;  lay  them  out  from  the  biscuit  funnel  on 
curtrid^e  paper,  in  drops  about  the  sizie  of  a  shilling,  and  buk^ 


390  PASTRY,  iic.  lAppendk. 

them  in  a  niidd1iDg;<heated  oven,  of  a  light  brown  colour,  and 
take  them  from  the  papers  as  soon  as  cold. 

N.  B.  a  smaller  pipe  must  be  used  in  the  funnel  than  for  olfak 
er  articles. 

(No.  7^.)  Jilinond  Sponge  Cake, 

Pound  in  a  mortar  one  pound  of  blanched  Almonds  quite 
fine,  with  the  Whites  of  three  Eggs, έΑΦ theu  put  in  one  pound  of 
sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  some  grated  Lemon-peel,  and  the  Yolks 
of  fifteeo  E^^s έΑΦ work  them  well  together  ; έΑΦ beat  np  to  a  sol- 
id froth  the  Whites  of  twelve  Eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  otb'- 
er  ingredients  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  dry  Flour  : έΑΦ 
prepare  a  mould  as  at  (No.  67) ;  put  in  the  mixture,  and  hake 
it  an  hour  in  a  slow  o^en  : έΑΦ take  it  carefully  frooi  the  mould, 
and  set  it  on  a  sieve. 

(No.  73.)  Ratafia  Cake, 

To  be  made  as  above,  omitting  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sWeef* 
and  sabstitatiog  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Bitter  Almonds. 

<No.  74.)  Diet  Bread  Cake.  ^ 

Boil,  in  half  a  pint  of  Water,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  L┬τmp 
Sugar, έΑΦ have  ready  one  pint  of  Eggs,  thr^e  parts  Yolks,  in  a 
pan,έΑΦ pour  in  the  Sugar,  and  whisk  it  quick  till  odd,  or  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour, έΑΦ then  stir  in  two  pounds  o(  sifted  Flour, 
case  the  insides  of  square  tins  with  white  paper,  &\  ibem  ibree 
parts  full,  sift  a  little  Sugar  over,  and  bake  it  in  a  warm  oven, 
and  while  hot  remove  them  from  the  moulds. 

(No.  75.)  Orange  Gingerbread, 

Sift  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  fine  Flour,  and  add  to  it  a 
pound  and  three  quarters  of  Treacle,  six  ounces,  of  Candied 
Orange-peel  cut  small,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Moist  Su- 
gar, one  ounce  of  ground  Ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  Allspice  ; 
έΑλέΑΦmelt  to  an  Oil  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Butter, έΑΦ mix  the 
whole  well  together,  and  lay  it  by  for  twelve  hours, έΑΦ ^roU  it  out 
with  as  little  Flop'r  as  possible  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it 
ioto  pieces  three  inches  long  and  two  wide,-έΑΦ mark  them  in  the 
form  of  chequers  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  put  them  on  a  baking 
plate  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart,έΑΦ rub  them  over  with  a 
Brush  dipped  in  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg  beat  up  with  a  teacopfulof 
Milk,  bake  it  io  a  cool  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;έΑΦ 
when  done,  wash  them  slightly  over  again,έΑΦ divide  the  pieces 
with  a  knife,  (as  in  baking  they  will  run  together.) 


Appendix*']  pastry,  &c*  3J1 

(No.  76.)  Gingerbread  Nuts, 

To  two  poands  of  sifted  Flour,  put  two  pounds  of  Treacle, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Moist  Sugar,  half  a  pound  of  Can* 
(died  Orange-peel  cut  small,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 
Ginger,  one  ounce  of  ground  Allspice,  Carraways,  and  Cor  lan- 
ders mixed,  an4  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Butter  oiled: 

mix  all  i^ell  together,  and  set  it  by  some  time, έΑΦ then  roll  it  out 
in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small  walnut,^ έΑΦ lay  them  in  rows 
on  a  baking  plate,  press  them  flat  with  the  band,  and  bak^ 
tbem  in  a  slow  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

(No.  77.)  Plain  Buns. 

To  four  pounds  of  sifted  Flour,  put  one  pound  of  good 
Moist  Sugar, έΑΦ make  a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  stir  in  a  gill  of 
good  Yeast,  a  pint  of  lukewarm  Milk,  with  enough  of  the 
Flour  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,έΑΦ cover  it  over  and 
let  it  lie  two  hours,-έΑΦ then  melt  to  an  oil  (but  not  hot)  one 
pound  of  Butter, έΑΦ stir  it  into  the  other  Ingredients,  with  enough 
warm  Milk  to  make  it  a  soft  paste ; έΑΦ throw  a  little  Flour  over, 
and  let  tbem  lie  an  hour, έΑΦ have  ready  a  baking  platter  rubbed 
over  with  Butter, έΑΦ moul4  with  the  hand  the  dough  into  buns 
about  the  size  of  a  large  egg,--^lay  them  in  rows  full  three 
inches  apart,  set  them  in  a  warm  place  for  half  an  hour,  or  till 
they  have  risen  to  double  their  size, έΑΦ bake  them  in  a  hot  oven 
of  a  good  colour,  and  wash  them  over  with  a  brush  dipped  into 
Milk  when  drawn  from  the  oven. 

(No.  78.)  Cross  Burn, 

.  ┬τ        * 

To  the  above  mixture  put  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 
Allspice,  Cinnamon,  and  Mace^  mixed, έΑΦ and  when  half  proved 
press  the  form  pf  a  cross  with  a  tin  mould  (mad^  for  the  pur- 
pose) in  the  centre,  and  proceed  as  above. 

(No.  79.)  Seed  Buns. 

Take  two  pounds  of  plain  Bun  Dough  (No.  77),  and  mix  in 
oue  ounce  of  Carraway  Seeds, έΑΦ butter  the  (nsides  of  small  tart- 
pans, έΑΦ mould  the  dough  into  buns,  and  put  one  in  each  f)an, 

set  them  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and  when  sufficiently  proved, 
ice  tbem  with  the  White  of  an  Egg  beat  to  a  froth,  and  laid  on 
with  a  paste-brush,  some  pounded  Sugar  upon  that,  and  dis- 
solve it  with  water  splashed  from  the  brush  :έΑΦ bake  them  in  a 
warm  oven  about  ten  ininutes. 


ass  FA9TKT,  &C┬τ  ^Jlppeniix. 

(No.  8(X)  Plum  Buns. 

To  two  pounds  of  (No.  77)  mivior^y  put  Mf  a  pooiid  o┬μ 
Cumots,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Cao4iiid  Orai^^poel  cm  Uno 
small  pieces,  half  a  Natmeg  grate4┬╗  Mt  ai|  ouoce  of  mixti 
Spiee,  aqcb  as  Allspice,  Cinoamooi  &┬τέΑλ  ;-^BiOuld  l^oi  iata 
QuQB,  jag  them  rouod  the  edge  wit|i  a  l^oif^  upd  then  proceed 
as  with  Flaio  Buob  (No.  77.) 

(No;  8h)  Orgeat. 

Pound  very  fine  one  pound  of  Jordan,  and  ose  ooace  of 
Bitter  Almonds  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  half  a  gill  of  Orange^ 
flower  Watir  (o  keep  them  from  oiling^-p^thea  mix  with  tkem 
OQf  pint  of  Rose  and  one  pint  of  Spring  water,~-Fub  it  Uirough 
a  tammia  cloth,  or  Uwi)  sieve,  till  the  Aimands  are  qnite  dry, 
wluch  will  redii^  the  quaetity  to  aboal  a  quart :έΑΦ 4iaTe  ready 
three  pints  of  Clarified  Sugar,  or  Water,  aed  boil  it  to  a  crack, 
(which*  may  bn  known  by  dippiog  your  fiogers  into  the  soger, 
and  then  intp  cold  water,  and  if  you  find  the  sugar  to  crack  in 
mowing  your  fioger,  it  has  boiled  enough ;)  ptit  io  die  Afanond^ 
boil  it  one  minute,  and  when  cold  put  it  into  small  bottlea  clois 
corked,  atableapoooful  of  wbicb  will  be  sufiScient  for  a  tumUar 
of  w%ter :  shake  the  bottle  before  using. 

Oi┬╗.-^If  the  Orgeat  is  for  present  use,  the  Almoods  may 
be  pounded  as  above,  aud  mixed  with  one  quart  of  Water, 
one  quart  of  Milk,  a  pint  of  Capillaire  or  Clarified  Sugar,  rub- 
bed through  a  tammis  or  fine  siev^,  andf  ut  into  decanters  for 
┬τse. 

(No.  9^)  'Bakei  I^m. 

Take  twelve  large  baking  Pears έΑΦ pare  and  cut  them  into 
halves,  leaving  on  the  stem  about  half  an  inch  long ;  take  out  the 
core  with  the  point  of  a  koife,  and  place  them  close  together  ia 
a  block  tin  saucepan,  the  inside  of  which  is  quite  bright,  wUb 
the  cover  to  fi┬╗  quit┬σ  close, έΑΦ put  to  them  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
cut  thin,  with  half  its  juice,  ^  small  stick  of  Cinnamon,  and 
twenty  grains  of  Allspice ;  cover  ihem  with  spriog  water,  add 
allow  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  a  pint  and  a  half  water  ; έΑΦ cov- 
er them  up  close,  and  hake  them  for  six  hours  in  a  very  slow 
oven  : έΑΦ they  will  be  quite  tender,  and  of  a  bright  colour. 

Obs, έΑΦ Prepared  Cochineal  is  geoetrally  used  for  colouring 
the  Pears  ;  but  if  the  ahove  is  strictly  attended  to,  it  will  be 
found  to  answer  best 


(No.  83.)  To  Dry  Afpleg. 

Take  Biffins,  or  Orange  or  LemooPippinsi έΑΦ tbe  former  aro 
the  best ;  choose  tbe  clearest  riods,  and  without  any  bieniishes ; 
lay  them  oo  clean  straw;  on  a  baking  wire, έΑΦ cover  them  well 
with  more  straw,  set  them  into  a  slow  oven, έΑΦ let  them  remain 
for  four  or  five  hours, -^-draw  them  out,  and  rub  them  in  your 
band,  and  press  them  very  gently,  otherwise  you  will  burst  the 
skins ;  return  them  into  the  oven  for  about  an  hour,  press  them 
again, έΑΦ when  cold,  if  they  look  dry,  rub  them  over  with  a  little 
clarifiiBd  Sugar. 

Obs.  by  being  put  into  the  oven  four  or  five  times,  pressing 
them  between  each  time,  they  may  be  brought  as.flat,  and  eat 
as  well  as  the  dried  Biffins  from  Norfolk. 

(No.  84.)         Icing,  for  Twelfth  or  Bridt  CaJ^e: 

Take  one  pound  of  double  refined  S^r,  pounded  aad  sift-* 
ed  through  a  lawn  sieve  ; έΑΦ put  into  a  pan  quite  free  ftom  grease, 
έΑΦ break  in  the  white  of  six  eggs,  and  as  much  powder  Blue  aa 
will  lie  on  a  sixpence ; έΑΦ beat  it  well  with  a  spattle  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  bqueeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  beat  it  till  it  be- 
comes thick  and  transparent.  Set  the  cake  you  intend  to  Ice^ 
in  an  oven,  or  warm  place  five  minutes, έΑΦ then  spread  over  the 
top  and  sides  with  the  mixture  as  smooth  as  possible  ; έΑΦ if  for 
a  Wedding  Cake  only,  plain  Ice  it ; έΑΦ if  for  a  Twelfth  Cake^ 
ornament  it  with  Gum  Paste,  or  fancy  articles  of  an*^  descrip- 
tion. 

06s. έΑΦ A  good  Twelfth  Cake,  not  baked  too  much,  and  kept' 
in  a  cool  dry  place,  will  retain  its  moisture,  and  eat  well,  if. 
Twelve  months  old. 

(No.  85.)  To  B&il  8ug&r  U  Caramel.      ' 

Break  into  a  small  copper  or  brass  pan,  ope  pound  of  refin- 
ed Sugar, έΑΦ put  in  a  ^ill  of  Spring  Water;έΑΦ set  it  on  a  fire, 
and  when  it  boils,  skim  it  quite  clean,  and  let  it  boil  quick, 
till  it  comes  to  the  degree  called  Crack,  which  may  be  known 
by  dipping  a  teaspoon  or  skewer  into  the  siigar,  and  let  it  drop 
to  tbe  bottom  of  a  pan  of  cold  w&ter;  and  if  it  remains  hard, 
it  has  attained  that  degree  ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  halfaiemoo; 
and  let  it  reniam  one  minute  longer  on  the  fire,  then  set  the  pan 
into  another  of  cold  water : έΑΦ have  ready  moulds  of  any  shape, 
έΑΦ rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil,  dip  a  spoon  or  fork  into  the 
34 


394!  PAStRY,  &Cr  {Appendix. 

sagar,  aod  tbrow  it  over  the  moald  io  fine  threads,  till  it  is 
qaite  covered : έΑΦ make  a  small  handle  of  Caramel,  or  stick  on 
two  or  three  small  Gum  Paste  rings,  by  way  of  ornament,  and 
place  it  over  small  pastry  of  any  description^ 

(No.  85.)  A  CroquaiUe  of  Paste, 

Roll  out  Paste,  as  (No.  8),  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick, 
-έΑΦrub  over  a  plain  mould  with  a  little  fresh  butter  : έΑΦ ^lay  on 
the  Paste  very  even,  and  equally  thin  on  both  sides  ; έΑΦ pare  it 
round  the  rim  ;  then,  with  a  small  penknife,  cut  out  small  pie- 
ces as  fancy  may  direct ; έΑΦ such  as  diamonds,  sfars,  circles, 
sprigs,  &C.,έΑΦ or  use  a  small  tin  cutter  of  any  shape  ;  let  it  lie 
to  dry  some  iimef  and  bake  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  slack  oven  of 
a  light  colour ; έΑΦ remove  it  from  the  mould,  and  place  il  over 
a  Tart,  or  any  otAier  dish  of  small  Pastry. 

(No.  87.)  Derby  or  Shtni  Cakes. 

Rub  in  with  the  hand  one  pound  of  Butter  into  two  pounds 
of  sifted  flour ; έΑΦ ^put  one  pound  of  Currants,  one  pound  of  good 
moist  S^gar,  and  one  egg  ;  mix  all  together  with  half  a  pint  of 
inilk, έΑΦ roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  tbem  into  round  Cakes  with  a 
Cutter ; έΑΦ ^lay  them  on  a  clean  Baking  Plate,  and  put  them  into 
a  middling  heated  oven,  for  about  five  minutes. 

(No.  88.)  Egg  and  Ham  Patties. 

Cut  a  slice  of  Bread  (wo  inches  thick,  from  the  most  soWd 
part  pf  a  stale  quartern  loaf : έΑΦ have  ready  a  tin  round  Cutter, 
two  inches  diameter,έΑΦ cut  out  four  or  five  pieces,  then  take  a 
Cbtter  two  sizes  smaller, έΑΦ press  it  nearly  through  the  larger 
pieces,  then  remove,  \fith  a  small  knife,  the  bread  from  the  in- 
ner circle; έΑΦ have  ready  a  large  ,stewpan  full  of  boiling  Lard  ; 
-έΑΦfry  them  of  a  light  brown  colour,  drain  them  dry,  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  set  them  by  till  wanted ;  then  take  half  a  pound  of 
lean  Ham,  mince  it  small,  add  to  it  a  gill  of  good  brown  Sauce  ; 
stir  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes,  and  put  a  small  quanUly  of 
Cayenne  Pepper  and  Lemon  Juice  ; έΑΦ fill  the  shapes  with  the 
mixture,  and  lay  a  poached  Egg,  see  (No.  546),  upon  each. 

(No.  89. )        Damson,  or  other  Plum  Cheese. 

Take  Damsons  that  have  been  preserved  without  sugar, έΑΦ 
pass  tbem  through  a  sieve,  to  take  out  the  skins  and  stones. έΑΦ 


Appendix."]  pastry,  &c.  395 

To  every  poaod  of  Pulp  of  Fruit,  put  half  a  pound  of  Loaf 
Sugar,  broke  small ; έΑΦ boil  tbera  together  till  it  becomes  quite 
stiff;  pour  it  iatofour  common  sized  dinner  plates,  rubbed  with 
a. little  sweet  oil, έΑΦ put  it  into  a  warm  place  to  dry,  and  when 
quite  firm,  take  it  from  the  plate,  and  cut  it  into  any  shape 
you  choose. 

N.  B.  DamsoD  Cheese  is  generally  used  in  Desserts. 

(No.90.)  Barley  Sugar. 

Clarify  (as  No,  475),  three  pounds  of  Refined  Sugar, έΑΦ boil 
it  to  the  degree  ofcrackedf  (which  may  be  ascertained  by  dip^- 
ping  a  spoon  into  the  Sugar,  and  then  instantly  into 
cold  water έΑΦ  and  if  it  appears  brittle  it  is  boiled  enough)  ; 
squeeze  in  a  small  teaspoonful  of  the  Juice,  and  four 
drops  of  Essence  of  Lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  or 
twice,  and  set  it  by  a  few  minutes : έΑΦ have  ready  a  marble  slab, 
or  smooth  stone,  rubbed  over  with  Sweet  Oil, έΑΦ pout  over  the 
Sugar,  cut  it  into  long  stripes,  with  a  large  pair  of  scissors, έΑΦ 
twist  it  a  little,  and  when  cold,  keep  it  from  the  air  in  tin  boxes 
or  cannisters. 

N.  B.  A  few  drops  of  Essence  of  Ginger,  instead  of  Lemon, 
will  make  what  is  called  Ginger  Barley  Sugar. 

(No.  91.)  Barley  Sugar  Drops.. 

To  be  made  as  the  last  Receipt.  Have  ready,' by  the  time 
the  sugar  is  boiled  sufficiently,  a  large  sheet  of  Paper,  with  a 
smooth  layer  of  sifted  loaf  sugar  on  it; έΑΦ put  the  boiled  Sugar 
into  a  ladle  that  has  a  fine  lip  ; έΑΦ pour  it  out,  in  drops  not  lar- 
ger than  a  shilling,  on  to  the  sifted  sugar ;  when  cold,  fold 
them  up  separately  in  white  paper. 

N.  B.  Some  use  an  oiled  marble  slab  instead  of  the  sifted 
Sugar. 

(No.  92.)  Raspberry  Jam. 

Rub  fresh  gathered  Raspberries,  taken  on  a  dry  day,  through 
a  wicker  sieve, έΑΦ to  one  pint  of  the  pulp,  put  one  pound  of  Loaf 
Sugar,  broke  small ; έΑΦ put  it  into  a  preserving  pan  over  a  brisk 
fire,  when  it  begins  to  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  stir  it  twenty  min- 
utes ;'^put  it  into  small  pots, έΑΦ cut  white  paper  to  the  size  of 
the  top  of  the  pot, έΑΦ dip  them  in  Brandy,  and  put  them  over 
the  jam  when  cold,  with  a  double  paper  tied  over  the  pot. 

Strawberry  Jam  to  be  made  the  same  way,  and  the  Scarlets 
are  the  most  proper  for  that  purpose. 


396  PASTRi^  &c┬τ  l^jJpendix. 

(No.  93.)  ^  Apricot,  or  any  Plum  Jam. 

Aftsr  taking  swiy  the  stooes  from  the  Apricots,  aod  cutting 
out  aoy  blemisfaes  they  may  bave,-έΑΦ pot  them  over  a  slow  firei 
in  a  clean  stewpao,  with  half  a  pint  of  water ; έΑΦ when  8calded┬╗ 
rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve  :*^έΑΦ to  every  poaud  of  pulp,  put 
ODe  of  sifted  loaf  sugar, έΑΦ put  it  into  a  preserving  pan  over  k 
brihk  fire,  aod  when  it  boils,  skim  it  well,  and  throw  in  the 
kernels  of  the  Apricots,  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter  Almonds, 
blanched  ; έΑΦ boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  fast,  and  stirriog  it  all 
the  time  ; έΑΦ remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  fill  it  into  Pota,  aod 
cover  them  as  at  (No.  99  ) 

N.  B.  Green  Gages  or  Plums  may  be  done  in  iHne  same  way, 
onittiog  the  Kernels  or  Almonds. 

(No.  94.)  L0emon  Chips* 

Take  large  smooth-rinded  Malega  Lemons ; έΑΦ race  or  cut  qW 
t!;eir  peel  into  Chips  with  a  small  knife^  (this  w ill. require  eome 
prutiice  to  do  it  properly,)  throw  them  into  salt  and  water  till 
L\e.\t  day, έΑΦ have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  throw  them  )q 
aud  boil  them  tender.     Drain  them  well : έΑΦ after  having  lai┬τ 
some  time  in  water  to  cool,  put  them  into  an  eartben  pan,  |>our 
over  enough  boiling  clarified  'Sugar  to  cover. theHi^,  and  then  Je< 
them  lie  two  days ; έΑΦ then  strain  the  Syrup,  put  mora  Sagar, 
aod  reduce  it  by  boiling  till  the  Syrup  is  quite  thick, έΑΦ put  ia 
/the  Chips,  and  simmer  them  a  few  minutes,  and  set  ihem  by 
jfor  two  days  :  repeat  it  once  more,  let  them  lie  two  days  Von- 
iger,  '^nd  they  will  be  fit  to  candy,  which  must  be  done  as 
IiMoffS.:  4ake  four  pints  of  clarified  Sugar,  which  will  he  suffi- 
lOioit  lor  six  pounds  of  Chips,  boil  it  to  the  degree  of  blowa^ 
(which  may  be  known  by  dipping  the  skimmer  into  the  Sugar, 
ifmd  blowing  strongly  through  the  holes  of  it ;  if  little  bladders 
appear,  it  has  attained  that  degree ;)  and  when  the  Chips  are 
thoroughly  drained  and  wiped  on  a  clean  cloth,  put  them  into 
Xhe  Syrup,   stirring  them  about-witb  the  skimmer  till  you  see 
the  Sugar  become  white;  then  take  them  out  with  two  forks, 
^hake  them  lightly  into  a  wire  sieve,  and  set  them  into  a  stove, 
or  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 

N.  B.  Ori^nge  Chips  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

<No.  9d.)  Dried  C^ierries. 

Take  large   Kentish  Cherries,  not  too  ripe, έΑΦ pick  off  the 
stalks  and  take  out  the  stones  with  a  quill  cut  nearly  as  for  .a 


pen  ; έΑΦ toibree  .pounds  tyf  wlncb,  taketbiee  ponodB  or  ptots  of 
clarified  Sugar,  (see  No.  475,)boil  it  to  the  degree  of  hU>wn  ;  (for 
which,  see  last  receipt,)  put  io  thfP  Cherries, έΑΦ gife  them  a  boil 
and  set  them  by  in  an  earthen  pan  till  next  day,  when  strain  Uio 
Syrup, έΑΦ add  more  Sugar,  and  boil  it  of  a  good  coosistenoe  ;έΑΦ 
put  the  Cherries  in,  and  boil  tbem  five  mioutes,  and  set  then 
by  another  day :  repeat  the  boiling  two  more  days,  and  wliea 
wanted,  drain  them  some  time,  and  lay  ibem  on  wire  sievw 
to  dry  in  a  stove,  or  nearly  oold  oven. 

(No.  96.)         Green  Gages  preserved  in  Syrup, 

Take  the  Gages  tvhen  nearly  ripe,  cut  the  stalks  about  balf 
an  inch  from  the  fruit, έΑΦ put  them  into  cold  water  with  a  lump 
of  alum  about  the  size  of  a  walnut ; έΑΦ set  them  on  a  slow  fire 
till  they  come  to  simmer. έΑΦ Take  them  from  the  fire,  and   put 
them  into  cold  water  ; έΑΦ drain,  and  pack  them  close  into  a  pre- 
serving pan^  pour  over  them  enough  clarified  Sugar  to  cover 
them, έΑΦ simmer  them  two  or  three  minutes ; έΑΦ ┬τet  them  by  io  aa 
eartheri  pan  till  nes,t  day,  when  drain  the  Gages,  and   boil  tho 
Syrup  with  more  Sugar  till  quite  thick  ; έΑΦ put  in  the  Gages  and 
simmer  them  three  minutes  more,  and  repeat  it  for  two  days, 
έΑΦ when  boil  clarified   Sugar  to  a  &/oir,  (as  at  No.  94)  place, 
the  Gages  into  glasses,  and  pour    the  Syrup  over,  and  when 
cold,  tie  over  a  bladder,  and  upon  that  a  leather  :  and  should 
you  want  any  for  dryi-ng,  drain  and  dry  tbem  on  a  wire  sieve 
in  a  stove  or  slow  oven. 

Apricots  or  Egg  Plums  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

(No.  97.)  To  Preserve  Ginger, 

Take  green  GKoger,  pare  it  neatly  with  a  sharp  knife,  throw 
it  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  as  it  is  pared,  to  keep  it   white,^^ 
boil  it  till  tender,  changing  the  watfi^r  three  times;  each  time  put 
it  into  cold  water  to  take  out  the  hetkt  or  spirit  of  the  Ginger, έΑΦ 
when  tender,  throw  it  into  cold  waV^  ; έΑΦ for  seven  pounds  o^ 
Ginger,  clarify  eight  pounds  of  Refined  Sugar  (see  No.    475,) 
when  cold,  drain  the  Ginger,  and    put  it  in  an   earthen   pan, 
-  "with  enough  of  the  Sugar,  cold,  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  two 
days, έΑΦ then  pour  the  Syrup  from  the  Ginger  to  the  rem.aindec 
of  the  Sugar,  boil  it  some  time,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  on  the 
Ginger  again,  iiod  set  it  by  tbre^  days  at  least.    Then  take  tho 
Syrup  from  the  Ginger ; έΑΦ boil  it,  and  put  it  hot  oner  the  Gio- 
┬τ4* 


398  PAiStRY,  &c.  [Apptndia:* 

g&t  ;έΑΦ proceed  in  this  way  till  yoa  find  the  Sagar  has  entered 
the  Qinger,  boiliog  the  Syrup  aod  skimmiog  off  the  scam  that 
rises  each  tiuMf  uotil  the  Syrap  becomes  rich  as  weil  as  the 
GiDger. 

Ofrs. έΑΦ If  yoa  put  the  Syrup  on  hot  at  first,  or  if  too  rich,  the 
Oioger  will  shrink  and  not  uke  the  Sugar. 

N.  B.  When  green  Ginger  is  not  to  be  procured,  take  large 
races  of  Jamaica  Ginger  boiled  several  times  in  water  till  ten- 
der, pared  neatly,  and  proceed  as  above. 

(No.  08.)  To  Pre8en>e  Cucumbers, 

Take  lai^  sad  fresh  gathered  Cucumbers, έΑΦ split  them  dowo 
and  take  out  all  the  Seeds,  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  that  will 
bear  an  ┬μgg  three  days ;  set  them  on  a  fire  with  cold  water, 
and  a  small  lump  of  Alum,  and  boil  them  a  few  minutes, or  till 
tender ; έΑΦ drain  them,  and  pour  on  them  a  thin  Syrup ; έΑΦ ^let 
them  lie  two  days,  boil  the  Syrup  again,  and  put  it  over  the 
Cucumbers, έΑΦ repeat  it  twice  more,  then  have  ready  some  fresh 
clarified  Sugar,  boiled  to  a  blow  ;  (see  No.  94,)  put  in  the  Cu- 
cumbers, and  simmer  it  five  minutes; έΑΦ set  it  by  till  next  day- 
boil  tlve  Syrup  and  Cucumbers  again,  and  set  them  in  glasses 
for  use. 

(No.  99.)        Pre&ei'ved  Fruit  without  Sugar. 

Take  Damsoos  when  not  too  ripe  ;  pick  off  the  stalks,  and 
put  them  into  wide-moulbed  glass  bottles,  taking  care  not  to 
put  in  any  but  what  are  whole  and  without  blemish; έΑΦ shake 
them  well  down,  (otherwise,  the  bottle  will  not  be  baif  full 
when  done ;  ) έΑΦ stop  the  bottles  with  new  soft  corks,  not  too 
tight ;  set  them*  into  a  very  slow  oven  (nearly  oold,)  four  or 
five  hours  ; έΑΦ the  slower  tbey  are  done  the  better ; έΑΦ when  they 
begin  to  shrink  in  the  bottles,  it  is  a  sure  sign  that  the  Fruit  is 
thoroughly  warm :  take  them  out,  and  before  they  are  cold, 
drive  in  the  corks  quite  tight ; έΑΦ set  tbem  in  a  bottle  rack  or 
basket  with  the  mouth  downwards,  and  tbey  will  keep  good 
several  years. 

Green  Gooseberries,  Morello  Cherries,  Currants,  Green  Ga- 
ges, or  Bullace,  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

Obs. έΑΦ If  the  Corks  are  good,  and  fit  well,  there  will  be  no 
occasion  for  cementing  tbem  ;  but  should  bungs  be  used^  it  will 
be  necessary. 


Jippendioc.^  bread.  390 


έΑλέΑλmέΑΦ vavoH 


BREAD. 

Put  a  quartern  of  Flour  into  a  large  Basia  ^ith  two  tea┬τ 
spoonsful  of  Salt, έΑΦ make  a  hob  in  the  middle,έΑΦ then  put  in  a 
Basin  four  tablespoonaful  of  good  Yeast,'stir  in  a  pint  of  Milk 
lukewarm,  put  it  in  the  boliel  of  the  Flour,  stir  it  just  to  make  a 
thin  Batter,  then  strew  a  little  Flour  over  the  top,~then  set  it 
on  one  side  of  the  fire,  and  cover  it  over  ;  let  it  stand  till  next 
morning,έΑΦ then  make  it  into  a  dough  ;┬τ*-add  half  a  pint  more 
of  warm  milk,  knead  it  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  by  the  fire  for  one  hour  and  a  half, έΑΦ then  knead  it 
again,  and  it  is  ready  either  for  Loaves  or  Bricks  :-έΑΦ bake  them 
from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  according  to  the  size^ 

(No.  100.)  French  Bread  and  Rolh. 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Milk,  make  it  quite  warm,  half 
a  pint  of  Small  Beer  Yeast,  add  sufficient  Flour  to  make  it 
as  thick  as  Batter,  put  it  into  a  pan,  cover  it  over,  and  keep  it 
warm  ;  when  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  warm  Wa.ter,  and  half  an  ounce  of  Salt, έΑΦ mix  them 
well  together, έΑΦ riib  into  a  little  Flour  two  ounces  of  Butter, 
then  make  your  Dough,  not  quite  so  stiff  as  for  your  Bread, 
let  it  stand  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  ready  to 
make  into  Rolls,  &c. ; έΑΦ let  them  stand  till  they  have  risen^  and 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

(No.  101.).         Sai^ly  Lunn έΑΦ Tea  Cakes, 

Take  one  pint  of  Milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter  of  a  pmt  of 
thick  Small  beer  Yeast,  put  them  into  a  pan  with  Flour  suffi- 
cient to  make  it  as  thick  as  Batter,-έΑΦ cover  it  over,  and  let  it 
stand  till  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  i  e,  about  two  hours, 
add  two  ounces  of  Lump  Sugar,  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  warm  Milk,  *a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Butter  rubbed 
into  yotitr  Flour  very  fine, έΑΦ then  make  your  Dough  the  same 
as  for  French  Rolls,  &c. ;  let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  {then  make 

έΑΦ  -^iM~^l  I        έΨι.IέΑΦ 1┬╗^W┬╗┬╗┬╗.  ^         > I.I  I.. έΨι    έΨι    έΨι┬╗┬╗  I 

*  If  you  do  not  mind  the  expense,  the  Cake  wUl  be  much  lighter,  if 
instead  of  the  Milk  you  put  four  Eggs. 


4M  Bfts*┬╗.  l^ppmdix. 

op  your  Cakes,  aod  put  thenfr  on  tins ;    when  they  have  stood 
to  rise,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oveo. 

Care  should  be  takeu  oefer  to  put  your  Yeast  to  Water  or 
Milk  too  hot  or  too  cold  as  either  extreme  will  destroy  the 
fermentation.  In  Summer  it  should  be  lukewarm, έΑΦ in  Win- 
ter a  little  warmer, έΑΦ and  in  very  cold  weather,  warmer  slill. 
When  it  has  iirst  risen,  if  you  arts  not  prepared^  it  will  not 
hurt  to  stand  an  hour,  a 

(No.  102.)  Muffins. 

Take  one  pint  of  Milk  quite  warm^  and  a  quarter  of  m  pint 
of  thick  Small  Beer  Yeast, έΑΦ strain  them  into  a  pan,  and  Mdd 
sufficient  Flour  to  make  it  like  a  Batter, έΑΦ cover  il  over,  and 
let  it  stand  in  a  warm   place  until  it  has  risen, έΑΦ then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  warm  Milk,  and  one  ounce  of  Batter  rubbed 
in  some  Flour  quite  fine, έΑΦ mix  them  well  together, then  add  suf- 
ficient Flour  to  make  it  into  Dough, έΑΦ cover  it  over,  and  let  it 
stand  half  an   hour,  then  work  it  op  again,  and  break  it  into 
small  pieces,  roll  them  up  quite  round,  and  cover  them  over 
(or  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; έΑΦ then  bake  them. 

(No.  103.)  έΓυrwnpeU. 

The  same:  instead  of  oMikiag  the  mixture  into  Dough,  add 
only  sufficient  Flour  to  make  a  thick  Batter,  and  when  it  has 
stood  a  quarter  of  an  hour  it  will  be  fieady  to  bake. 

Muffins  and  Crumpets  bake  best  on  a  Stove,  with  an  Iron 
Plate  fixed  on  tbe  top  ;  but  they  will  also  bake  io  a  Fryiogpan, 
takiog  care  the  iire  is  not  too  fierce,  and  turning  them  when 
light^  browned. 

(No.  104^  Yorkshire  Cakes. 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  thick  Small  Beer  Yea┬τr,  mix  them  well  together  in  a 
pan  with  sufficient  Flour  to  (paHe  a  thick  Battc^r, έΑΦ Let  it  stand 
in  a  warm  place  cpverM  over,  juiotil  it  has  I'iseo  as  high  as 
it  will, έΑΦ rub  ┬╗\x  oupcejg  of  Butter  ipto  ┬τome  Ftoui*  tUJ  it  Is  qmt┬τ 
$ne,~.-then  break  three  Eggs  into  yourpj^U  with  the  Flpur  and 
Butter,  mix  ll^em  well  togetber,rέΑΦ tbep  udd  sufficient  f  iopr  tp 
Vake  it  into  a  Dough,  and  let  it  &tand  a  quarter  of  so  hour, 
then  wpfk  it  up  Pgaip,  and  break  it  intp  pieces  about  ih/e  size  of 
an  egg,  or  larger,  as  ypu  may  (aucy, έΑΦ roll  fbem  rouod  and 
smooth  Fvith  your  hand,  and  put  them  on  tins,  aod  let  them 
stand  covered  over  with  aiigbt  piece  of  Qannel, 

έΑλ*  The  six  last  Receipts  were  writteo  by  Mr.  Tarner.  Bread  and  Biwait  Bakcr, 
έΑλnerof  JLondonuidFitzroy  Street,  JFitaioy  Square. 


T^ 


.^^ffpmdix*']  PASTRX,&.c.  401, 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES. 

The  quality  of  the  various  Articles  employed  in  the  compo- 
sitioQ  of  Puddings  and  Pies  varies  so  much,  that  two  puddings, 
made  jexactiy  according  to  the  same  receipt,  will  be  so  differ- 
ent, one  would  hardly  suppose  they  were  made  by  the  same 
^)er80o,έΑΦ ^od  certainly  not  with  precisely  the  same  quantities 
of  the  (apparently)  same  ingredients.  Flour  fresh  ground- 
pure  New  Milk έΑΦ Fresh-laid  EggsέΑΦFresh  Butter έΑΦ Fresh 
έΑλSuet,  &c.  will  make  a  very  different  composition,  than  when 
kept  till  each  article  is  half  spoiled. 

PlurrL  Puddings^  when  boiled,  if  hung  up  in  a  cool  place  ia 
the  cloth  tbey  are  boiled  in,  wUl  keep  good  some  monAs  : 
when  wanted  take  them  out  of  the  cloth,  and  put  them  into  a 
a  clean  cloth,  and  as  soon  as  wurmed  through έΑΦ they  are  ready. 

MsBf. έΑΦ In  composing  these  Receipts,  the  quantities  of 
CoGHs,  BunTElBt,  &c.  are  considerably  less  than  is  ordered  in  oth- 
er Cookery  Books  ;  but  quite  sufficient  for  the  purpose  of  ma┬τ 
%iog  the  Puddings  light  and  wholesome, έΑΦ we  have  diminished 
fhe  Expense,  fWitbont  impoverishing  the  preparations,  end  the 
έΑλB┬τiienal  Epicure,  will  be  as  well  pleased  with  them- έΑΦ as  the 
Rational  Economist. 

Mf  LK,  in  its  genuine  state;  varies  considerably  in  the  quanti- 
iy  of  Cream  it  will  throw  up, έΑΦ depending  probably  on  the 
^material  with  which  the  Cow  is  fed.  The  Cow  that  gives  the 
*most  Milk  does  not  always  produce  the  most  Cream,  which  va- 
ries fifteen  or  twenty  per  cent; ;  this  may  be  immediately  and 
accurately^ascertained  by  the  Lactometer,  sold  by  Jones,  Math- 
ematical Instrument  Maker,  Charing  Cro99,  price  2$.  6d, 

In  London,  the  MiHc  is  not  only  subject  to  these  variations ; 
but  is  generally  not  only  akimmed, έΑΦ but  thinned  with  Ski^blue 
(water)  from  the  Iron-Tailed  Cow,  (the  pump.) 

London  Cream,  we  are  told,  is  sometimes  adulterated  with 
Milk,  thickened  with  Potatoe-starch,  and  tinged  with  Turme- 
ric :  this  accounts  for  the  Cockneys,  on  making  an  expedition 
into  the  country,  being  so  extremely  surpnsed  to  find  the  thick" 
est  pitrt  of  the  Cream έΑΦ at  the  ITop  I 

EoQs,  vary  considerably  in  size  in  the  following  Receipts, 
we  mean  the  full-sized  Hen's  Egg  3 έΑΦ if  yoii  have  only  PuUet*B 


403  PASTRT,  &c┬τ  [Appendix, 

Eggs,  use  two  for  one.  Break  Eggs  one  by  one  into  a  basio, 
and  not  ail  ioto  the  bowl  together,  because  then,  if  you  meet 
vritb  a  bad  one,  that  will  spoil  all  the  rest : έΑΦ strain  tbem 
tbroQgh  a  sieve  to  take  out  the  treddles. 

N.  B.  To  preserve  Eggs  for  twehe  months,  see  N.  6.  to 
(No.  547.)  Snow  and  Small  Beer έΑΦ ^bave  been  recommeDded 
by  some  Economists  as  admirable  substitutes  for  Eggs  : έΑΦ 
they  will  no  more  answer  than  as  substitutes^for  Sugar  or 
Brandy. 

Flovr,  according  to  that  champion  against  adulteratioo, 
Mr.  Accum,.  varies  in  quality  as  much  as  any  thing. 

Butter  also  varies  much  in  quality.     Salt  BuUer  may  be 

washed  from  the  Salt,  and  then  it  will  make  very  good  Pastry. 

Lard  varies  extremely  from  the  time  it  is  kept,  &c.  Whea 

you  purchase  it  have  the  bladder  cut,  and  ascertain  that   it  be 

sweet  and  good. 

Suet.  Beef  is  the  best έΑΦ then  Mutton  and  Veal : έΑΦ wben 
this  is  used  in  very  hot  weather,  while  you  chop  it,  dredge  it 
lightly  with  a  little  Flour. 

Beef-Marrow  is  excellent  for  most  of  the  purposes  /or 
which  Suet  is  employed. 

Drippings,  especially  from  Beef,  wbeo  very  clean  and  djcb 
are  frequently  used  for  Kitchen  Crusts  and  Pies,  and  for  such 
purposes  are  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  Batter,  Lard┬τ  &c. 
To  clean  and  preserve  Drippings,  see  (No.  83.) 

Currants,  previous  to  putting  them  into  tbe  Pudding, 
should  be  plumped  ;  this  is  done  by  pouring  some  boiling  wa- 
ter upon  (hem  ; έΑΦ wash  them  well,  and  then  lay  tbem  on  a 
sieve  or  clotb  before  she  6re,  and  pick  them  clean  from 
tbe  stones  ; έΑΦ this  not  only  makes  tbem  look  better,  but  cleans- 
es them  from  all  dirt. 

Raisins,  Figs,  Dried  Cherries,  Candied  Orange  and 
liEMON  Peel,  Citron,  and  Preserves  of  all  kinds> έΑΦ 
Fresh  Fruits,  Gooseberries,  Currants,  Plums,  Damsons,  &c. 
are  added  to  Batter  and  Suet  Puddings,^  or  enclosed  in  tbe 
Crust  ordered  for  Apple  Dumplings,  and  make  ali  tbe  various 
Puddings  called  by  those  names. 

Batter  Puddings,  must  be  quite  smooth   and  free  from 

lumps  ;  to  insure  this,  first  mix  the  Flour  with  a  little  MjlkέΑΦ 

and  the  remainder  by  degrees έΑΦ and  then  the  other  ingredients. 

If  it  is  a  plain    Pudding,  put  it  through  a  hair  sieveέΑΦ this 

will  take  out  all  luro  ps  effectually. 


Jlppindix.']  PASTRT,  &c.  403 

Battbr  Poddinos  should  be  tied  up  tight :  if  boiled  lo  a 
mould,  butter  it  first έΑΦ ^if  baked^also  butter  the  Pan. 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  before  you  put  in  the  PuddingέΑΦ- set 
your  stewpan  on  a  trivet  oyer  the  fire,  and  keep  it  steadily 
boiling  all  the  time έΑΦ ^if  set  upon  the  fire  the  Pudding  often  burns. 
Be  scrupulously  careful  that  your  Pudding  Cloth  is  perfectly 
sweet  and  clean,  wash  it  without  any  Soap έΑΦ ^unless  very 
greasy έΑΦ ^then  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  clean  water  after.  Immedi- 
ately before  you  use  it  dip  it  in  Boiling  Water,  squeeze  it  dry, 
and  dredge  it  with  Flour. 

If  your  fire  is  very  fierce,  mind  and  stir  the  Puddings  every 
DOW  and  then  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the 
saucepan  ;  if  in  a  Mould  tlHs  care  is  not  so  much  required, 
but  keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  saucepan. 

fVhen  Puddings  are  hailed  in  a  chtky  it  should  be  just  dip- 
pedin  a  basin  of  cold  water,  before  you  untie  the  Pudding  Cloth, 
as  that  will  prevent  it  from  sticking;  but  when  boiled  in  a 
Mould,  if  it  is  well  buttered,  they  will  turn  out  without. 
Custard  or  Bread  Puddings  require  to  stand  &ye  minutes  be^ 
fore  they  are  turned  out.  They  should  always  be  boiled  in  a 
Mould  or  Cups. 

Keep  your  Paste-board,  Rolling'pin,  Cutters,  add  Tins  very 
clean έΑΦ the  lean  dust  on  the  Tins  and  Cutters,  or  the  least 
hard  paste  on  the  Rolling-pin,  will  spoil  the  whole  of  your  la- 
bour. 

Things  used  for  Pastry,  or  Cakes,  should  not  be  used  for 
any  other  purpose:  be  very  careful  that  your  Flour  is  dried  be- 
fore the  fire,  before  you  use  it,  for  Pufi^  Paste  or  Cakes  *  if 
damp,  it  will  make  it  heavy. 

-  In  using  Butter  for  Puff  Paste,  you  should  take  the  greatest 
care  to  previously  work  it  well  on  the  Pasteboard  or  Slab,  to 
get  out  all  the  water  and  butter-milk,  which  very  often  remains 
in  ; έΑΦ when  you  have  worked  it  well  with  a  clean  knife,  dab  it 
over  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  it  is  then  ready  to  lay  on  your 
Pa9te :  do  not  make  your  Paste  over  stiff  before  you  put  io^ 
your  Butter. 

For  those  who  do  not  understand  making  Puff  Paste,  it  is 
Joy  far  the  best  way  to  work  the  Butter  in  at  two  separate  times 
έΑΦ divide  it  in  half έΑΦ and  break  the  half  in  little  bits,  and  cover 
your  Paste  all  over,  dredge  it  lightly  with  Flour έΑΦ then  fold  it 
over  each  side  and  ends,  roll  it  out  quite  thin,  and  then  put  in 
the  rest  of  the  ButterέΑΦ fold  it,  and  roll  it  again.     Remember, 


404  PASTRY,  SCC┬╗ 

έΑλliNifs  to  roll  Poff  Pasto  from  you.    Ths  best  made  Paito,  if 
not  proparly  baked,  will  not  do  the  Cook  aoy^crodit. 

Those  who  lua  Iron  Ooem  do  not  always  sncoeed  id  bak- 
isg  Puff  Paste,  Fruit  Piee,  &c.-- Puff  Paste  ii  ohea  spoiled 
by  baking  it  after  Fruit  Pies^  in  an  iron  oveo.  This  may  bo 
easily  aroided  by  putting  two  or  three  bricks  that  are  quite  even 
into  the  oven  before  it  is  first  set  to  get  hot.  This  will  not  on^ 
ly  prefeot  the  syrup  from  boiling  oot  of  the  Piss έΑΦ boi  also  pre- 
reot  a  very  disagreeable  smell  in  the  kitchen  and  houseέΑΦ -and 
almost  answer  the  same  purpose  as  a  brick  ovea^ 

(No.  105.)  College  Puddings. 

Beat  four  Egifs,  yolks  sod  whiles  together^  in  a  cfixtK  basio, 
with  two  ounces  of  Floor,  half  a  Nutmeg,  a  little  Ginger,  and 
three  ounces  of  Sogar┬τέΑΦ pounded  Loaf  Sugar  is  best  Beat  ft  in- 
to a  smooth  batter ;  then  add  six  ounces  oif  Soet  chopped  fine, 
six  ot  Currants  well  washed  and  picked ;  mix  it  all  well  togeth- 
erέΑΦa glass  of  Brandy  or  White  Wine  will  improve  it.  These 
Puddings  are  generally  fried  in.  Butter  or  Lard  ;  hut  they  are 
much  nicer  baked  in  an  oven  in  patty  pans :  twenty  minutes 
will  bake  them έΑΦ if  fried,  fry  them  till  they  are  of  a  nice  light 
browo,  and  wbeo  fried,  roll  them  in  a  little  Flour.  You  maj 
add  one  ounce  of  Orange  or  Citron  minced  very  fine ;  when 
you  bake  them,  add  one  more  Egg,  or  two  spoonfuls  of  Milt 
Serve  them  up  with  White  Wine  Sauce. 

(No.  106.)      Rice  Puddings  Baked^'-or  Bailed, 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  pick  very  clean  six  ounces  of  Bice, 
put  it  in  a  quart  stewpan  three  paits  filled  with  cold  water,  aet 
it  on  the  fire,  let  it  boil  five  roiDotes έΑΦ pour  away  the  water,  and 
put  in  one  quart  of  Milk,  a  roll  of  Lemon  Peel,  and  a  bit  of 
Cinnamon  ;  let  it  boil  gently  till  the  Rice  is  quite  tender,  tt  will 
take  at  least  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  be  careful  to  stir  i(  every 
five  minutes,  take  It  off  the  fire,  and  stir  in  an  ounce  and  a  . 
a  half  of  Fresh  Butter,  and  beat  up  three  Eggs  on  a  plate,  a 
salt-spoonful  of  Nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  Sugar,  put  it  into 
the  Pudding,  and  stir  it  till  quite  smooth έΑΦ line  a  pie-dh-^h  big 
enough  to  hold'it  with  Puff  Paste,  notch  it  round  the  edge, 
put  in  your  Pudding,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour  : 
this  will  be  a  nice  firm  Pudding. 

If  you  like  it  to  eat  more  like  Custard,  add  one  more  Egg, 
and  half  a  pint  more  milk;*  it  will  be  better  a  little  thinner  when 


^ppendix*^  puddings  JMf>  piss.  405 

boiled ;  one  hoar  will  boil  it.  If  you  like  it  in  little  Puddings, 
butter  small  teacups^  aod  either  bake  or  boil  them,  half  aa 
hour  will  do  either ;  you  may  vary  the  Puddiog  by  putting  in 
Candied  Lemon  or  Orange  Peel,  minced  very  fineέΑΦ or  dried 
Cherries,έΑΦ or  three  ounces  of  Currants, έΑΦ or  JRaisins,έΑΦ or  Ap- 
ples minced  fine. 

If  the  Puddings  are  baked  or  boiled,  serve  them  with  White 
Wine  Sauce,  or  Butter  and  Sugar. 

(No:  107;}  (rround  Bdce  Pudding, 

Put  four  ounces  of  ground  Rioe  into  ai  stewpan,  and  by  de- 
gress stir  iu  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Milk,  set  it  on  the  fire  with  a 
roll  of  Lemon  and  a  bit  of  Cinnamon,  keep  sdrriog  k  till  it 
boils έΑΦ ^beat  it  to  a  smooth  Batter^^ihen  set  it  on  the  trivet, 
where  it  will  simmer  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;έΑΦ <hen 
beat  three  Eggs  on  a  plate,  stir  them  mto  the  pudding  with  two 
ounces  of  Sugar,  and  two  drams  of  Nutmeg έΑΦ take  out  tho 
Lemon  Peel  and  Cinnamon έΑΦ stir  it  all  well  together,  line  a 
pie  dish  with  thin  Puff  paste  (No.  1  of  Receipts  for  Pastry,) 
big  enough  to  hold  it,  or  Butter  the  Dish  well,  and  bake  it  ftudf 
an  hour έΑΦ if  boiled,  it  will  take  one, hour  in  a  mould  wdl  bnt- 
teredέΑΦ -three  ounces  of  Curranto  may  be  added. 

(No;  lOaO  ^^^  SnonfBoUs. 

Wash  and  pick  half  a  pound  of  Rice  very  clean,  put  it  on 
in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water ;  when  it  boils  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve  till  it  is  quite  dry,  and  then  pare 
six  apples,  weighing  two  ounces  and  a  half  each.  Divide  the 
Rice  into  six  parcels,  in  separate  cloths έΑΦ put  one  apple  in  each 
έΑΦ ^tie  it  loose,  and  boil  it  one  hour έΑΦ ^serve  it  with  sugar  and 
butter,  or  wine  sauce.  ' 

(No.  109.)  Rice  Blancmange. 

Pat  a  teacupful  of  whole  Rice,  into  the  least  water  possible, 
till  it  almost  bursts :  then  add  half  a  pint  of  good  Milk  or  thin 
Cream,  and  boil  till  it  is  quite  a  mash,  stirring  it  the  whole 
time  it  is  on  the  tire,  thfit  it  may  not  burn  :  dip  a  shape  in  cold 
water,  and  do  not  dry  it,  put  io  the  rice,  and  let  it  stand  until 
quite  cold,  when  it  will  come  easily  out  of  the  shape.  This 
dish  is  much  approved  of;  it  is  eaten  with  cream  or  custard, 
35 


406  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES.  \_Jppendix, 

aod  preserved  fruits έΑΦ raspberries  are  best.     It  should  be  made 
the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  tbat  it  may  get  firm. 

This  Blaocmaoge  will  eat  oiach  nicer,  flavoured  with  Spices, 
LemOD  Peel,  &c┬τ  aod  sweetened  with  a  little  Loaf  Sugar,  add 
it  with  the  Milk,  aod  take  out  the  Lemon  Peel  before  you  pat 
it  in  the  mould. 

(No.  110.)       MoosT  Ate  Save-all  Pudding, 

Pot  aoy  scraps  of  Bread  ioto  a  clean  saucepan, έΑΦ to  about  a 
pouod,  put  a  piot  of  Milk  ;  set  it  on  the  trivet  till  it  boils,  beat 
it  up  quite  smooth,  then  break  io  three  Eggs,  three  ounces  of 
Sugar,  with  a  little  Nutmeg,  Ginger,  or  Allspice,  and  stir  it  all 
well  together.  Butter  a  Dish  big  enough  to  ho\d  it,  pal  \xk  Vhe 
pudding,  aod  have  ready  two  ounces  of  suet  chopped  very  fine, 
strew  it  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  aod  bake  it  three  quarters 
of  an  hour ;  four  ounces  of  Currants  will  make  it  much  better. 

(No.  111.)      Batter  Puddingy  Baked  or  Boiled, 

Break  three  ┬μggs  in  a  basin  with  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on 
a  sixpence,  boat  them  well  together,  aod  then  add  four  ounces 
of  Flour έΑΦ beat  it  ioto  a  smooth  Batter,  and  by  degrees  add 
half  a  pint  of  Milk  :  have  your  saucepan  ready  boiling,  and 
butter  an  earthen  mould  well,  put  the  pudding  in,  and  tie  it 
tight  over  with  a  pudding  cloth,  and  boil  it  one  hour  aad  a 
quarter.  Or,  put  it  in  a  dish  ibat  you  have  well  buttered,  aud 
bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Cun^ants  washed  and  picked  clean,  or  Raisins  stoned,  are 
good  io  this  pudding,  and  it  is  then  called  a  Black  Cap :  or, 
add  Loaf  Sugar,  and  a  little  Nutmeg  and  Ginger  without  (be 
fruit,  it  is  very  good  that  way, έΑΦ serve  it  with  Wine  sauce, 

(No.  1 12.)  Jpple  Pudding  Boiled, 

Chop  four  ounces  of  Beef  Suet  very  fine,  or  two  ounces  of 
Butter,  Lard,  or  Dripping" έΑΦ but  the  suet  makes  the  best  and 
lightest  crust ;  put  it  on  tbe  paste  board,  with  eight  ounces  of 
fiour,  and  a  saltapoonful  of  salt,  mix  it  well  together  with  your 
hands,  and  then  put  it  all  of  a  heap,  and  make  a  hole  in  the 
middle ;  break  one  egg  in  it,  stir  it  well  together  with  your  fin- 
ger, and  by  degrees  ipFuse  as  inuch  water  as  will  make  it  of  a 
stiff  paste  : έΑΦ roll  it  out  two  or  three  times  with  the  rolling-pin, 
and  then  roil  it  large  enough  to  receive  thirteen  ounces  of  Ap- 


Appetidix^  PUDDINGS  and  pies.  407 

pies.  It  will  look  neater  if  boiled  in  a  basin,  well  battered, 
than  when  boiled  in  a  pudding  cloth  well  floured :  boil  it  an 
hour  and"  three  quarters, έΑΦ but  the  surest  way  is  to  stew  the  ap- 
ples first  iu  a  stewpan,  with  a  wineglassful  of  water,  and  then 
one  hour  will  boil  it.  Some  people  like  it  flavoured  with 
Cloves  and  I^emon  Peel,  and  sweeten  it  with  two  ounces  of 
Sugar. 

Gooseberries,  Currat^ts,  and  Raspberries,  Ciierrif.s, 
Damsons,  and  various  Plums  and  Fruits,  are  made  into 
Puddings  with  the  same  Crust  directed  for.  Apple  Puddings. 

(No.  113.)  Apple  Dumplings, 

Make  paste  the  same  as  for  Apple  Pucklin^r,  divide  it  info 
as  many  pieces  as  you  want  Dumplings,  pt^^ol  the  apples  and 
core  them,  then  roll  out  your  paste  large  enough,  and  put  in 
the  apples;  close  it  all  round,  and  tie  them  in  pudding  cloths 
very  tight, έΑΦ one  hour  will  boil  them έΑΦ and  when  you  take 
them  up,  just  dip  them  in  cold  water,  and  put  them  in  a  cup  the 
size  of  the  dumpling  while  you  untie  them,  and  thi'y  will  turn 
put  without  breaking.  - 

(No.  114.)         Suet  Pudding  or  Dumplings. 

Chop  six  oonces  of  Suet  very  6ne, έΑΦ put  it  in  a  basin  with 
six  ounces  of  Flour,  two  ounces  of  Bread  crumbs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  SaltέΑΦ stir  it  all  well  together ; έΑΦ beat  two  eggs  on 
a  plate,  add  to  them  six  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  put  it  by  de- 
grees into  the  basin,  and  stir  it  all  well  together  ;  divide  it  into 
six  dumplings,  and  tie  them  separate,  previously  dredging  the 
cloth  lightly  with  flour. 

Boil  them  one  hour. 

This  is  very  good  the  next  day  fried.  The  above  will  make 
a  good  pudding,  boiled  in  an  earthenware  mould,  with  the  ad- 
dition of  one  more  eggy  a  little  more  milk,  and  two  ounces  of 
suet. 

Boil  it  two  hours. 

N.  B.  The  most  Economical  way  of  making  Suet  Dump* 
lingSy  is  to  boil  them  without  a  oloth  in  a  pot  with  BeefέΑΦ or 
Mutton έΑΦ no  Eggs  are  then  wanted,  and  the  dumplings  are 
quite  as  light  without :  Roll  them  in  Hour  before  you  put  them 
into  the  pot ;  add  six  ounces  of  Currants,  washed  and  picked, 
and  you  have  Currant  Pudding έΑΦ or  divided  into  six  parts, 
Currant  Dumplings, έΑΦ a  little  sugar  will  improve  them. 


i 


mdix. 


it  will 


^f 


Appendix.f  ncstts*  *0┬τ 


PICKLES. 

We  are  not  fond  of  Picklcs^ έΑΦ these  Sponges  of  Vinegsr 
are  often  very  Indigestible,  especially  in  the  crisp  state  in  which 
tbey  are  most  admired  ; έΑΦ we  recommend  those  who  hftve  any 
regard  for  their  Stomach,  yet  still  wish  fo  indulge  their  Tongue, 
έΑΦ instead  of  eating  Pickles,  which  are  really  merely  tehicles 
for  taking  a  certain  portion  of  Vinegar  and  Spice,  &c.  to  use 
the  Flawmreft  Vinegarsy  such  as  Burnet  (No.  399,)  Horte^ 
radish  (No.  399*,)  Tarragon  (No.  396,)  MhU  (No.  397,) 
Cress  (Nos.  397*,  401,  403,  406*,  453,  457,)  &c. :  by 
combinations  of  these,  a  relish  may  easily  be  composed,  exact- 
ly in  harmony  with  the  palate  of  the  eater. 

The  Pickle  made  to  preserve  Cacumbers,  &c.  is  generally 
so  strongly  impregnated  with  Garlick,  Mustard,  and  Spice, 
&c.  that  the  original  flavour  of  the  Vegetables  is  quite  over- 
powered ;  and  if  the  eater  shuts  his  Eyes, έΑΦ his  Lingual  nerves 
will  be  puzzled  to  inform  him  whether  he  is  munching  an 
Onion  or  a  Cucumber,  &c.  and  nothibg  can  be  more  absurd 
than  to  pickle  Plums,  Peaches,  Apricots,  Currants,  Grapes,  &c. 

The  strongest  Vinegar  must  be  used  for  Pickling : έΑΦ ^it  must 
not  be  boiled,  (or  the  strength  of  the  Vinegar  and  Spices  will 
be  evaporated.) έΑΦ By  parboiling  the  Pickles  in  brine,  they  will 
be  ready  in  half  the  time  tbey  are  when  done  in  tb^  usual 
manner, έΑΦ of  soaking  them  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  six  or 
eight  days. έΑΦ When  taken  out  of  the  hot  brine,  let  them  get 
cold,  and  quite  dry  before  you  put  them  into  the  Pickle. έΑΦ To 
assist  the  preservation  of  Pickles,  a  portion  of  salt  is  odded^ 
and  for  the  same  purpose,  and  to  give  flavour, έΑΦ Long  Pepper, 

έΑΦ Black   Pepper, White  Pepper, έΑΦ -Allspice, έΑΦ Ginger, έΑΦ 

Cloves, έΑΦ Mace, έΑΦ Garlick, έΑΦ Mustard^ έΑΦ Horseradisb,-^Shal- 
lOts,  and  Capsicum. 

The  following  is  the  best  method  of  preparing  the  Pickle, 
έΑΦas  cheap  as  any,έΑΦ -and  requires  less  care  than  any  other 
way. 

Bruise  in  a  mortar  three  or  four  ounces  of  the  above  logre* 
dients  ; έΑΦ put  them  into  a  stone  jar  with  a  quart  of  the  strongest 
35* 


410  piCKL┬μ$.  [Appendix. 

Vin^ar,  stop  the  jar  closely  with  a  bung, έΑΦ cover  that  with  a 
bladder  aoaVed  with  Pickle,  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  for  three  days,  well  sbakiog  it  up  at  least  three  times  in  the 
day.έΑΦ By  pounding  the  Spice,  half  the  quamtity  is  ewmgh^  and 
the  Jar  being  well  closed,  and  the  infusion  being  made  vnth  a 
mild  heat,  there  is  no  loss  by  evaporation. 

To  enable  the  articles  pickled  to  more  easily  and  speedily 
imbibe  the  flavour  of  the  Pickle  they  are  immersed  in,  previous- 
ly to  pouring  it  on  themέΑΦ run  a  larding  pin  through  them  ia 
several  places. 

This  Spices,  Sec  commonly  used,  are  those  roebtfotted  (a  the 
Receipt  for  pickling  hValnuts,  which  is  also  an  exceWenl  Sa- 
voury Sauce  for  cold  meats. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  ad  infinitum,  by  adding  Celery, 
Cress  Seed,  or  Curry  Powder,  (No.  455,)  or  by  taking  for  the 
Liquor  any  ol  the  flavoured  Vinegars,  &c.  we  have  enumera- 
ted above,  and  see  the  receipts  between  (Nos.  395  and  421.) 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  unglazed  Earthen- 
ware, or  Glass  Jars  which  are  preferable,  as  you  can,  without 
opening  them,  observe  whether  they  want  filling  up :  ibey 
must  t>e  very  carefully  stopped  with  well  fiiting  Bungs,  and 
tied  over  as  closely  as  possible  with  a  bladder  wetted  with  the 
Pickle  ;  and  if  to  be  preserved  a  long  time,  after  that  is  dry,  it 
must  be  dipped  in  Bottle  Cement,  see  page  .112. 

When  tbt^  Pickles  are  all  used,  boil  up  the  liquor  wilb  a  Ul- 
tle  fresh  spice. 

To  fValnut  Liquor  may  be  added  a  few  Anchovies  and 
Eshallots  :  let  it  slaMd  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and  bottle  it :  thus 
you  may  furnish  your  table  with  an  excellent  savoury  keeping 
sauce  for  Hashes,  Made  Dishes,  Fish,  &;c.  at  very  small  cost, 
see  (No.  439.) 

Jo.rs  should  not  be  more  th<nn  three  parts  filled  with  the  arti- 
cles pickled,  which  should  be  covered  with  Pickle  at  least  two 
inches  above  their  surface; έΑΦ the  liquor  wastes,  and  all  of  the 
tirticlee  pickled,  that  are  not  covered,  are  soon  spoiled* 

When  they  have  been  done  about  a  week,  open  the  Jars, 
and  fill  them  up  with  Pickle. 

Tie  a  wooden  spoon,  full  of  holes,  round  each  jar,  to  take 
them  out  with. 

If  you  wish  to  have  Gherkins,  &c.  very  Green,  this  may  be 
accomplished  by  keeping  them  in  Vinegar,  sufficiently  hot, 
till  they  become  so. 


AjppendixJ]  pickles.  411 

If  you  vAsh  CaidiflowerSj  Onions^  Sfc┬╗  to  be  fVhiley  use  dia-^ 
tilled  Vioegar  for  them. 

To  entirely  prevent  the  mischief  arising  from  the  action  of 
the  Acid  upon  the  metallic  utensils  usually  employed  to  pre- 
pare Pickles,  the  whole  of  the  process  is  directed  to  be  perform- 
ed in  unglazed  Stone  Jars. 

N.  B.  The  maxim  of  "  Open  your  Mouth,  and  shut  your 
Eyes,^^  cannot  be  better  applied  than  to  Pickles;  and  the  only 
direction  we  have  to  record  for  the  improvement  of  their  com- 
plexion, is  the  joke  of  Dr.  Goldsmith, έΑΦ *'  If  their  colour  does 
not  please  you,  send  *em  to  Hammersmith,^* έΑΦ *'  that's  the  way 
to  Turnham  Green,^* 

(No.  116.)  Ghebkins. 

Put  them  into  (unglazed)  Stone  pans,  cover  them  with  a 
brine  of  salt  and  water,  made  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt 
to  a  quart  of  water,  cover  them  down,  set  them  on  the  hearth 
before  the  fire  for  two  or  three  days  till  they  begin  to  turn  yel- 
low ;  then  put  away  the  water,  and  cover  them  with  hot  Vine- 
gar, set  them  again  before  the  fire,  keep  them  hot  till  they  be- 
come Green ;  then  pour  off  the  vinegar,  and  cover  them  with  a 
Pickle  of  fresh  vinegar,  &c.  the  same  as  directed  in  the  follow- 
ing receipt  for  Walnuts  (leaving  out  the  shallots,)  cover  them 
with  a  bung,  bladder,  and  leather. 

(No.  117.)  Walnuts. 

Make  a  brine  of.  Salt  and  Water,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Salt,  to  a  quart  of  Water έΑΦ put  the  Wal- 
nuts into  this  to  soak  for  a  week έΑΦ or  if  you  wish  to  soften  them 
so  that  they  may  be  soon  ready  for  eating έΑΦ run  a  larding  Pin 
through  them  in  half  a  dozen  places έΑΦ this  will  aUow  the 
Pickle  to  penetrate,  and  they  will  be  much  softer,  and  of  better 
flavour,  and  ready  much  sooner  than  if  not  perforated  : έΑΦ put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  such  brine,  and  give  them  a  gentle 
simmer έΑΦ put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain έΑΦ then  lay  them  on  a 
fish  plate,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  air  till  they  turn  black-έΑΦ 
this  may  take  a  couple  of  days έΑΦ put  them  into  Glass,  or  un- 
glazed Stone  Jars έΑΦ fill  these  about  three  parts  with  the  Wal- 
nuts, and  fill  them  up  with  the  following  Pickle. 

To  each  quart  of  the  strongest  Vinegar  put  an  oClnce  of 
Black  Pepper,  same  of  Giuger,  same  of  Shallots,  same  of  Salt, 


._pKa 


fi 


!'έΑλ.έΑλ 


Il 


┬╗a 


' ┬τ -^Bjl'r. 


Cayenns. 

┬╗tted  with 
Jar  oo  a 
up  three 
[Hiuts,  aod 

if  leathor, 


'^86^'  9 


'li"^'' 


\bJes,  xnaj 


έΑλέΑλ:*!;έΑλ 


:^w 


CbA 


"ir-^" 


!έΨ╝'  *( 


'*  *;^^  ┬τ2E*  *;^* 


> 


imll  take 

JM^take  them 

in  slices 

made  by 

Pepper^ 

tlB^THIof  Horse- 

f^iike,  with 

"  "^Dgredieoto 

days  oa  a 

die  cleaT 

'^tS!?'^^'^^^  ariaDged 

έΑλ  a^*  a^*  ┬τ#┬╗  a^*  έΑλg┬╗ 


".έΑλ  *j 


┬τ( 


ea 


leasesέΑΦ 

a  cuUen* 

{9  morrow 

them  with 


^┬σ.fl 


^1 


U 


┬τ-W-┬╗ 


┬τ3V┬╗ 


I    ^-V/*  'j^*  *;^*  *;^* 
9 


.W. 


big  as  a 
top  coats, 
|iog  water, 
as  soon ' 

"     jlaod  coyer 

r*  *-Vfm  ┬τ^┬╗  *;^*  *;^*  '^^  fl^┬╗  *;^* 


"Mi^^M.Q. 


Afpendix.']  k^ickles.  413 

them  with  another  till  yoa  have  ready  as  mttny  as  you  wish  : 
when  tbey  are  quite  dry,  put  tbem  into  jars,  and  cover  them 
with  hot  Pickle,  made  by  iDfusiog  an  ounce  of  Horseradish* 
same  of  Allspice,  and  same  of  Black  Pepper,  and  same  of  Salty 
in  a  quart  of  best  White  Wine  Vinegar,  in  a  stone  jar,  on  a 
trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  three  days,  keeping  it  well 
closed  ,*^when  cold,  bung  them  down  tight,  and  cover  them 
with  bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle,  and  leather. 

(No.  13^)        Cauliflowers  or  Brocoli. 

Choose  those  that  are  hard,  yet  sufficiently  ripeέΑΦ -cut  away 
the  leaves  and  stalks. 

Set  on  a  stew  pan  half  full  of  water,  salted  in  proportion  of  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Salt  to  a  quart  of  water έΑΦ throw  in  the 
Cauliflower έΑΦ let  it  heat  gradually,  when  it  boils  take  it  up  with 
a  spoon  full  of  holes,  and  spread  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry  before 
the  fire,  for  twenty-four  hours  at  least έΑΦ when  quite  dry,  pat 
them,  piece  by  piece,  into  jars  or  glass  tie-overs έΑΦ and  cover 
tbem.with  the  pickle  we  have  directed  for  Beet  /{oot,έΑΦ or  make 
a  pickle  by  infusing  three  ounces  of  the  Curry  Powder  (No. 
455)  for  three  days  in  a  quart  of  Vinegar,  by  the  side  of  tha 
fire. 

Nastarttaros  are  excellent  prepared  as  above. 

(No.  123.)    Indian  or  Mixed  Pickle έΑΦ Mango  or  Picca* 

LILLI. 

The  flavouring  ingredients  of  Indian  Pickles  are  a  com- 
pound of  Curry  Powder^  with  a  large  proportion  of  Mustard 
and  GarlicJu 

The  following  will  be  found  something  like  the  real  Mango 
Pickle,  especially  if  the  Garlick  be  used  plentifully.  To  each 
gallon  of  the  strongest  Vinegar  put  four  ounces  of  Curry  Pow- 
der (No.  455,)  same  of  Flour  of  Mustard,  (some  rub  these 
together,  with  half  a  pint  of  Salad  Oil,)  threQ  of  Ginger  bruised 
έΑΦ and  two  of  Turmeric,  half  a  poand  (when  skinned)  of  Shal- 
lots, (slightly  baked  in  a  Dutch  oven,)  two  ounces  of  Garlicky 
piftepared  in  like  manner,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Salt,  and  two 
drachms  of  Cayenne  Pepper. 

>  Put  these  ingredients  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  it  with  a  bladder 
wetted  with  the  pickle,  and  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  during  three  days^  shaking  it  up  three  times  a  day έΑΦ it  will 


414  PICKLES.  [Appeniix^ 


then  be  ready  to  receive  Gherkios έΑΦ sliced  Cucumbers έΑΦ sliced 
Onions έΑΦ Button  Onions έΑΦ Cauliflowers έΑΦ Celery έΑΦ BrocoVi έΑΦ 
French  Beans έΑΦ Nasturtiums έΑΦ Capsicums,  and  small  green 
Melons.  The  latter  must  be  slit  in  the  middle  sufficiently  to 
admit  a  narrow  spoon,  with  which  take  out  all  the  seeds έΑΦ then 
parboil  the  melons  in  a  brine  that  will  bear  ao  egg,  dry  them, 
and  fill  them  with  Mustard  Seed  and  two  Cloves  of  Gar  lick, 
and  bind  the  Melon  round  with  packthread. 

Large  Cucumbers  may  be  prepared  in  like  manner. 

Green  Peaches  make  the  best  imitation  of  the  Indian  Maogo┬τ 

The  other  articles  are  to  be  separately  parhoi/ed  (excepting 
the  Capsicums)  in  a  brine  of  Salt  and  Water  strong  euougl)  to 
bear  ao  e^g έΑΦ taken  out  and  drained έΑΦ and  spread  out  and 
thoroughly  dried  in  the  sun έΑΦ on  a  stove έΑΦ or  before  a  fire,  for 
a  couple  of  days,  and  then  put  into  the  Pickle. 

Any  thing  may  be  put  into  this  Pickle^  except  Red  Cabbage 
and  Walnuts. 

It  will  keep  several  years. 


415 


FAREWELL  TO  THE  READER. 


yVe  now  have  made,  ia  one  desi^, 

The  Utile  and  Dulee  jein, 

And  taught  the  poor,  and  men  of  wealth; 

To  reconcile  their  -ta9tes  to  Health. 

Restrain  each  forward  appetite, 

To  cUne  with  prudence  and  delight, 

And  careful  all  oar  rules  to  follow, 

To  masticate  before  they  swallow. 

'Tis  thus  Hygeia  guides  our  pen 

To  warn  the  greedy  sons  of  men. 

To  moderate  their  wine  and  meat 

And  '<  eat  to  live,  not  live  to  eat." 

For  the  rash  Palate  oft  bestows 

Arthritic  Lectures  on  the  Toes  ! 

The  Siomaehy  void  of  wind  and  bile, 

Shall  praise  our  monitory  style. 

And  as  he  cannot  speak,  enlist 

Himself  as  your  ventriloquist έΑΦ 

The  Hectd,  now  clear  from  pain  and  vapor 

Shall  order  out  his  ink  and  paper ; 

And  dictate  praises  on  these  ruleg 

To  govern  gormandizing  fools. 

The  Legs  now  fearless  of  the  gout, 

As  ready  messengers  turn  out. 

To  spread  our  volume  far  and  near, 

Active  in  gratitude  sincere. 

Vrfhile  thus  the  Bodj/y  strong  and  sound, 

Our  constant  advocate  is  found. 

And  pointing  to  receipts  delicious, 

Exclaims,"  who  reads  our  new  ApicioB^ 

If  he  has  brains  may  keep  them  cool, 

If  a  sound  stomach  and  no  fool, 


416 

Maj  ke┬τp  it  so,  waclo^f ed  bj  food 

lodigestion's  sickly  brood, 

His  Huiger,  though  oppreflsire,  ease, 

His  Palate,  though  capricious,  please, 

Aad  if  with  care  he  reads  our  Boak, 

In  theory  may  be  a  Cook ; 

Learn  the  delights  good  rules  procure  us 

When  appetite  by  reason's  aw'd, 

(Zeno  alike  and  EpieuruM 

Pleasures  combined  with  health  applaud). 

He  who  is  Stomach's  master,  he 

The  noblest  Empire  then  may  boast, 

And  atwhaterer  Feast  he  be, 

That  man  alone  '  shall  rult  the  Boot.' " 


TINIS. 


INDEX. 


ne  figures  under  No.  refer  to  the  RecetpU-^hote  preceded  bv  d  to  the 
Fages^those  marked  Ap.  refer  to  me  Reeeipte  m  the  Jippeniix, 


No.  I 
Acid  of  Lemon,  artificial  .    407* 
Alamode  Beef,  or  Vea],  or 

English  Turtle  602 

Allspice,  Essence  of  412 

,  Tincture  of  413 

Almond  Custards  (Ap.  No. 

54.) 
Anchovy  Sauce  270 

Essence  433 

έΑΦ έΑΦ  Toast  678 

=:?r  ]     έΑλ  ^ 

έΑΦ -  Powder  436 


Appert,  his  Art  of  Preserving 

Vegetables,  p.  89. 
Apple  Sauce 
Apple  Pie  (Ap.  No.32.) 
Apple  Tart,  creamed,   (Ap. 

No.  33.) 
Apples,  to  dry  (Ap.  No.  83.) 
Apricot  Jam  (Ap.  No.  93.) 
Artichokes 

Jerusalem 


304 


Asparagus 


Soup 


136 
117 
123 
222 
480 
13 
526 


Arraclc,  to  imitate 
Bacon 

"  Slices  of 

Relishing  Rashers  of  627 

Roasted  Leg,  (Ap,  p. 

366.) 

έΨι  Sparerib  to  Roast  63 

Bain-M arie,  Note  to      485  &  529 


Baking,  p.  72. 

Baked  Custard  (Ap.  No.  62.) 

έΑΦ έΑΦ  Pears  (Ap.  No.  82.) 

Barley-water 

Broth 

έΑΦ  to  make  a  Gallon 


No, 


for  a  Groat 


Sugar  (Ap.  No.  90.) 

έΑΦέΑΦDrops  (Ap.  No.  91.) 
Basil  Vmegar,  or  Wine 
"        Sauce 
Beans,  French 
Bechamel 
Beef  BouiUi  5,  238, 
έΑΦ  how  nutritive  and  eco- 
nomical 
to  Salt 

-  Savoury 

-έΑΦa  Round  of,  Salted,  to 
boil 

' what  the  outside  Slices 

are  good  for.    N.B.  to 
έΑλ  H-Bone 

-  Ribs,  and  rolled 

έΑΦ -  Sirloin  Roasted 

-έΑΦ έΑλ  proper  way  to  carve,  in 
Note  to 

έΑλ  as  Mock  Hare 

έΨι"^^  Ribs  Roasted 

έΑλ  Do.  boned  and  rolled 

Steaks  to  Fry 

έΨι  Season  for,  see  Note  to 

έΑΦ -  with  Onions 


565 
204 

229 


397 
264 
138 
864 
493 

5 
6 

496 


7 

8 

9 

19 

19 
66 
20 
21 
85 
94 
86 


418 


INDEX* 


No. 
B┬τcf  to  Broil  94 

to  Stew  600 

-^έΑΦ  with  Onion  Grary  501 

Broth  186 

έΨι       Broth  for  Glaze,  or  Por- 
table Soup  or  Saace  -252 

Gravy  186 

έΑΦ έΑΦ  Strong  Grairy  188 

CuUis  189 

for  Poultry,  &c.  329 

Shia  of  Beef  Soup  293 

Tea  563 

to  Hath  486 

Shin  Stewed  493 

έΑΦ ^-  Brisket  do.  494 

Harricot  495 

έΑΦ  Hunter's  SaToary  Baked 

or  Stewed  496 

έΑΦ -  Alamode,    or    ┬μng*iish 

Turtle  502 

to  Pot  503 

έΑΦ- έΑΦ  Bubble  and  Squeak,  and 

the  Tune  of  505 

^-┬τ  Hashed,     and     Bones 

Broiled  506 

Cold,  Broiled,  &c.  487 

^έΑΦ  Steak    Pudding,     (Ap. 

No.  24.) 
Beer,  to  recover  when  hard     468 

to  Bottle  468 

Cup  464 

Beet  Roots  127 
to  pickle  (Ap.  No. 

119.) 
Biscuit  Drops  (Ap.  No.  68.) 
Bishop,  Essence  of  413 

Black  Cock  71 

Blancmange^  (Ap.  No.  46.) 
Boiling,  p.  69. 
Boiled  Custard  (Ap.  No.  53.) 
Bonne    Bouche    for    Geese, 

Pork,  &c.  341 

Bread  Sauce  321 

Sippets  Fried  319 

Crumbs  ditto  320 

Brocoli  126 

έΑΦ : έΑΦ  Pickled  (Ap.  No.  111.) 
Bride,  or  Wedding  Cake  (Ap. 

No.  56.) 


Ne. 
BrUl  143 

Brain  Balls,  p.  276. 
Broiling,  see  the  4th  Chapter 
of  the  Rudiments  of  Cook- 
ery, p.  86. 
Broth,  see  the  7th  Chapter  of 
Rudiments  of  Cookery,  p. 
93. 

,  of  Fragments,  p.  67. 

,  Beef  185 

,  to  Clarify  352┬╗ 

,  Mutton  194 

,  Mock  ditto  196 

,  with  Cutlets  490 

,  Scotch  Badey  5204 

',  for  Sick  564 


Browning,  to  colour  Soup  and 

Sauce,  &c.  322 

Brunswick  Tourte  ( Ap.  No.  45.) 
Buns,  Plain  (Ap.  No.  77.) 

,  Cross  (Ap.  No.  79.) 

,  Plum  (Ap.  No.  80.) 

,  Bath  (Ap.  No.  66.) 

Burnet  Vinegar,  has  the  same 

taste  ad  Cucumber  399 

Burnet  Vinegar  Sauce    .         264 
Butler's  Dffections  for  dry- 
ing herbs  461 
Butter,  best  manner  of  melt 

InjT 
to  recoTcr  when  oiled 

έΑΦ έΑΦ  Clarified 

Burnt 

Oiled 

Cabbage 


Broiled  and  Fried 
Bubble  and  squeak 


256 
256 
259 

260 
260* 
118 
505 
505 


Cakes,  Common  Seed,   (Ap. 

No.  59.) 
,  Rich  Yeast  Do.  (Ap. 

No.  60.) 
έΑΦ -,  Queen    or   Heart  Do. 

(Ap.  No.  61,) 

Shrewsbury   Do.  (Ap. 


No.  63.) 
έΑΦ ,  Banbury  Do.  (Ap.  No. 
64.) 

έΑΦ ,  Savoy  or  Sponge  (Ap. 
No.  67.) 


I 

i 


INDEX* 


419 


n 


)7 


1) 


Cakes,  Ratafia  Do.  (An.  No. 
71.) 

Almood    Sponge    Do. 
(Ap,  No.  72.) 
Diet  Bread   Do.   (Ap. 
No.  74.) 

Derby   or   Short  (Ap. 
No.  87.) 
Calf,  a  fatted,  preferred  to  a 
Starved  Turtle 
Head  to  Boil 
Do,  Hash 
Do.  Ragout 
Head,  Mock  Turtle 
Feet  Jelly 
Camp  Vinegar 
Caramel,  to   boil  Sugar  to, 

(Ap.  No.  86.) 
Carp  Stewed 
Carrots 
έΑΦ  Soup 

Carving,  best  rule  for,  p.  37. 
Catsup  of  Mushrooms 
of  Walnuts 
of  Oysters 
of  Cockles 
of"  Cucumbers 
Pudding 


No. 


7} 


247. 
10 
10 
520 
247 
481 
403 


ft 


Ji 


Caper  Sauce 


Mock 


Capon  to  Roast 

CapiUaire 

Cauliflower 

,  pickled  (Ap.  No. 

122.) 

Caudle 

Cayenne,  how  to  make 

Essence  of 


158 
129 

212 

439 
438 
441 
442 
399 
446 
274 
275 
58 
476 
125 


Celery  Soup 
Sauce 

έΑλέΑΦ έΑΦ  Seed,   substitute 
Celery,  p.  96. 
Essence 


for 


672 

404 
405 
214 
290 


Chantilly  Basket,  (Ap.  Nx>.  51 
Cheap  Soup 
Cheese  and  Toast 

Toasted 

Buttered  ditto 

έΑΦ  Pounded  or  Pitted 


*έΑλ 


409 

έΑλ) 
229 

539 

540 

641 


Cheesecakes  (Ap.  No.  40.) 

Lemon  ditto  (Ap. 


No. 


N┬σ.  41.) 
No.  40.) 


Orange  ditto(Ap. 
Almond  dttto(Ap. 


No.  43) 
Cherries,  Dried  (Ap.No.95.) 
Chervil  Sauce  264 

Chilli  Vinegar  405* 

έΑΦ ^  VTine  405** 

Chicken.     See  Fowl 

Pie  (Ap.  No.  16.) 

έΑΦ and   Ham  Patties 

(Ap.  No.  96.) 
Chtps,  Mutton,  Pork,  Beef, 

to  Broil  &2  &  93 


85 
490 
423 
356 
416 
416*^ 


to  Fry 

to  Stew 
Relish  for 
έΑη     Sauce  for 
Cinnamon,  Essence  of 

έΑη     Tincture  of 
Ch┬τwder  of  Fish,  (^p.  p.  365.) 

έΑη     of  Clams,  (^p.  p.  365.) 
Claret,  best  Wine  for  Sauces 

&c.  p.  99 
Clarified  Syrup  47.3 

Clarify  Broth  052V 

Clove  and  Mace,  Essence  of  "414 
>i        V        Tincture  of        415 
Cockle  Catsup  442 

C┬τd,  boiled  149 

έΑη     Slices  bailed  I51 

έΑη     Skull  stewedf  153 

C#ld  Meat,    to    broil    with 

Poached-  Eggs  437 

Do.  to  warm  the  best 
way,  p.  56. 
Sauce  for,     453,  372  &  359 
Veal,  an  excellent  Dish 

┬░^  512 

..,     Fowl,  ditto  533 

Colouring  for  Soup  &  Sauce    322 

έΑη    a    frequent   Cause    of 

Adulteration  322 

Consomme  252 

Cooks,  friendly  advice  to, p.  49 

Coulis,  or  Tliickened  Gravy     189 


17 


77 


4^ 


INDXX. 


No. 
Co(ra|re  Potatoe  Paddliis(Ap. 

No.  116.) 
Crab,  to  boil  177 

Cray  Fiib  Soap  2S5 

έΑη    Ditto.cloated  S88 

Cranberry  Tan(Ap.  No.  37.) 
Croquaote  of  Paste  (Ap.  No. 

86.)  *^ 

Crowdie  S05* 

Crisp  Parsley  318 

Currant  Jelly  479* 

Curry  Powder  455 

Soup  249 

Sauce  548 

Balls  383 

έΑη    to  dress  497 

Coracoa,  bow  to  make  474 

Custard  Puddiog,  p.  951. 
Cyder  Cup  465 

(?orks,  p.  111. 

Caw-Cnw  Rones,  N.  B.  to  I 

Cow-Heel,  todrcis  IS* 

Cress  Sauce  264 

έΑη    VineMf  S97┬╗ 

Cuconber  Stewed  1S5 

έΑη    Vinegar  899 

έΑη    to  preserve  (  Ap.  No.  98.) 
C>arp,  to  Stew  158 

Damson  Cheese  (Ap.  No*  89.) 
Devil  538 

,,    Biscuit  574 

Dripptnfi^,  to  clarify  83 

έΑη    Soup  339 

Duck,  to  Roast  61 

Bonne- Boucbe  for  341 


EiS')Savce 
έΑη    fried  with  Bacon 
Ragout 
Poached 

boiled  in  the  Shell 
Do.  for  a  Salad 


99 
99 
tf 


I) 


Itfo. 
9S7 
545 
545 
546 
547 
378 


>i 


99 


9t 
99 
έΑλ9 
99 
99 
99 
91 
99 
99 
99 
19 


99 


.19 


99 
99 


to  Hash 


έΑη    Cold,  to  Warm 
έΑη    Wild,  to  Roast 


530 
535 
74 
Dutch  Salad,  Obs.  to  372 

Dinner,  Invitation  to,  p.  31. 
,y    Arrangement  of  Guests 

at,  p.  35. 
έΑη    Rules  for  Behaviour  at, 

p.  27. 
,,    Hints  for  providing,  p. 
33. 
Edge-Booe  of  Beef,  see  H- 

Bone  8 

Eels  Stewed  Wiggy's  way        164 
έΑη    Pickled  161 

έΑη    Fried  (^1^.  p.  366)  &  No.  165 
έΑη    Pie  (Ap.  No.  22.) 
┬μm,to  preserve  for  twelve 
Months,  see  N.  B.  to  547  i  Fowls,  to  Boil 


and  Ham  Patties  (Ap. 
No.  88.) 

Bsballot  Sauce  994 

Vinegar  401 

Wine  402 

Eneoce  of  Ham  S5l 

of  Mushrooms  440 

of  Oysters  441 

of  Cayenne  405 

of  Lemon  Peel  407 

Ditto  408 

Celeiy  409 

Ginger  411' 

Allspice  412 

Clove  414 

Mace  414 

Cinnamon  416 

Soap  Herbs  420 

Essence  of  Bsballot  402 
Soup  Herbs  and  Savoury 

Spice  432 

Punch  471 

Fawn  65 

Fennel  and  Batter  for  Mac- 
kerel S& 

Fish,  see  the  6th  Chapter  of 
Rudiments  of  Cookery,  p, 

9a 

Cold,  to  re-dress,  p.  56. 
to  Stew  158 
Do.  Maigre  Soap  235 
Sauce  425 
to  pickle  161 
Forcemeat,  to  make  373 
for  Veal  S7S 
for  Turkey  377 
for  Goose  S78 
for  Hare  379 
Balls,  for  MockTartle 
and  Made  Dishes  380 
Egg,  do.  381 
Curry,  do.  382 
Zest  386 
To  mix  Orange  and  Le- 
mon Peel  387 
Flip  466 
Flounders  155 


99 
έβο┬╗ 
99 
99 

99 


99 

99 
99 
99 
99 


99 
99 
99 
99 


INDEX. 


4^1 


Fowb,  to  Roast 
έΑη    to  Broil 


5┬╗ 


Hashed 
Palled 


No. 
58 
97 
533 
534 
έΑη    to  dress  Cold  535 

French  Beaos  133 

έΑη    Pickled  (Ap.  No.  118.) 
,.    Tart  of  Prescnred  Ft  nit 
(Ap.  No.  35.) 
Frying,  p.  83. 

'favour,  arents  employed  to 
Soops  and  Saaces,  Note  un- 
der p.  110. 
Floanders,  Fried  or  Boiled       155 
Game  62 

έΑη    to  render   immediately 
Ripe  for  Roasting,  p.  72. 
Garlick  Vinegar  400 

έΑη    Sance  S72 

έΑη    Gravy  311 

Gherkins,  (A  p.  No.  116.) 
Giblets  Stewed  531 

έΑη    Soap  244 

Gigofde  SeptHeares,  N  B. 

to  1 

Ginger,  Essence       ^^  411 

έΑη    preserved  (Ap.*    o.  97.) 
Gingerbread  Nats  (Ap.  No. 

76.) 
Goose,  to  Roast  59 

έΑη    to  Hash  530 

έΑη    Green  60 

έΑη    Mock  51 

έΑη    Bonne-  Boache  for  341 

έΑη    Relish  for  329 

Gourds,  various  w  ays  of  dress- 
ing, p.  354. 
Gooseberry  Sauce  263 

GaAFT,  read  the  8th  chapter 
of   the    Rudiments    of 
Cookery 
έΑη    for  Poultry,  Ragouts       329 
έΑη    Excellent  ditto,  in  Jive 
minutes  252 

Onion  299 


┬╗ 


Garlick 


Game 

for  Wild  Duck 


311 
337 
338 
326 
έΑη    uwiicu  327 

έΑη    Wow  Wow  for  Salted  or 

Stewed  Beef  328 

,,    for  Grills  and  Broils        S55 
36* 


έΑη    Roasted  Meat 
Boiled 


99 


99 

┬╗> 
┬╗ 
)9 


No. 
Gravy,  Relish  for  Chops  apd 

Steaks  423 

Cold  Meat  or  Poultry  359 
Hashes  of  Mutton,  &c.  360 
Do.  Veal  361 

for  Venisoii  of  Wine  344 
Vinegar  345 

for  venison  of  Currant 
Jelly  346 

of  MTutton  347 

brown  colouring  for  322 
Portable  252 

Soup  200 

Maigre  do.  217 

Greening  for  Soups  and  Sauces  320 
Green   Gages,    preserved    in 

Syrup  (Ap.  No.  96.) 
Grill  Sauce  355 

Grouse  73 

Gruel,  various  ways  of  making 

and  flavouring  572 

Guinea  Fowl  69 

Haddock  157 

έΑη    Fiodhorn  do.  157* 

Haggles,  a  ^ood  Scotch  488* 

Ham,  to  Boil  14 

to  Roast,  (Jp,  p.  366) 
to  Pot  509 

Slices  of  Broiled  226 

Essence  351 

Hare,  Roast  66 

Jug  5^* 

Soup  241 

Mock  66 

Hashed  529 

,,    Pie,  (Ap.  No.  11.) 
Harricot,  of  Mutton,  Lamb, 

Veal,  or  Beef  489 

the  Gipsies*  way  489 

of  Beef  495 

Hashes,  Mutton  484 

to  warm  up  485 

Beef  486 

Veal  511 

Venison  528 

Cold  Calf's  head  519 

Ditto  10 

Calf's  bead ,  or  Ragout  520 
Hare  529 

Dock  or  Goose  530 

Turkey  or  Fowl  ┬╗  533 
to  warm  up  Hashes,  &c.  485 
Sauce  for  360 


99 
┬╗ 

.99 


99 
99 
99 
99 


99 
99. 


99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 
99 


J9 


422 


INDEX* 


9J 


No. 
H&Qftcb  (lee  H-)Boiie  of  Beef  8 
Herbs,  wben  and  how  to  dry  451 
Ilerriocsi  pickled  171 

έΑη   b^led.  in* 

έΑη    Red  do.  173 

Horseradish  Powder  458 

έΑη    Vine^r  S99* 

Icior  for   Fruit  Tarls,    &e. 
(Ap.  No.  31.) 
,,    for  Twelfth  Cake  (Ap. 
No,  84.y 
lodiaD,  or  Mixed  Pickle  (Ap. 

No.  123.) 
Invitatloni  bow  to  send,  p.  36 

έΑη    to  answer,  p.  36* 
Italian  Salad,  see  Obt.  to 
έΑη    CreaiDv(Ap.  No.  48.)^ 
έΑη    Macaroons  (A  p.  No.  70.) 
Irish  Stew,  Mrs.  Phillips's 
έΑη    Do.  Mr.  Morrison** 
Jack,  to  dre!┬╗ 
Jelly  Ox-Heel 
CalfVFeet 

of  Currants  and   other 
Fruits 
Kelly's  Sauce  for  Calf-head 

έΑη  έΑη    piquante 

Kid,  to  Roast 
Kidneys,  to* broil 
Lamb,  to  Boil 
to  Roast 
Sham  Larob  do. 
Hind  Quarter 
Fore  Quarter 
Leg 

Shoulder 
to  Goosefy  do. 
Ribs 
Loin 
Neck 
Breast 
Chops 
Shouldererilled 

έΑη    Lamb's  FVy 
Larder's,  proper,  p.  68.         , 
Leg  of  Be^f  Soup.    See┬╗┬τbin 

of  Beef  Soup 
Lemon  Syrup 

Sauce 

Juice,  artificial 

Chips  (Ap.  No- S4.> 
Lerao?!  and  Parsley  Sauce 
fef  roon  Peel  Kssence 

Quintesaeuce  do. 


Sf 

?1 


J┬╗ 


?┬╗ 


?> 


372 


488 
488 
158 
198 
481 

479* 
311* 

311* 
65 

95 

3 

4P 

40 

41 

43. 

43 

44 

51 

45 

έΑλ  46 

47 

48 

92 

491 

492 


391 

273 

407* 

287 
407 
408. 


Lemon  Peel  Tincture 
Lemonade  in  a  minute 
Lijueurs,  p.  99,  and  No. 
Liror  of  a  Goose.    See  Note 

ooder 
Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce 

έΑη    Do.  for  fish 
Lobster,  to  Rpast, 

to  Boil 

Saace 

Sauce  for  Lobster 

Soup 

Potted ' 

Salad 

Spawn,  to  preserve, N.B, 

to 

Patties  (Ap.  No.^27.) 


┬╗┬╗ 

>┬╗ 

>1 


9┬╗ 


If 
91 


No. 
408 
477 
471 

59 
287- 
288 

82 
176 
284^ 
285 
237 
178 
5/3 

9&i 

20a 
176 
169 


170 
ITJl 

26&' 


483 
46$ 
417 
544 


Maccaroni  Soup,  see  Obs.  to 
Mackerel^  Boiled 
Broiled 

way.  to   broil  pickled, 
(J>.p.  364.) 
Baked 
Piekled 
Roe  Sauce 
Made  Dishes,  Obs.  on,  see  9tb 
Chauterof  Rudiments  of 
Cookery 
έΑη    Economical  do. 
Magazine  of  Tast^ 
Marjoram,  Essence  of 
Marrow  Bones 
Mille  Feuilles(Ap.  No,  44.) 
Minced  Collops,  p.  317' 
Mince  Pies  (Ap:  No.  38.) 
έΑη    Meat  (Ap.  No.  39.) 
Mint  Sauce  303 

έΑη    Vinegar  398 

Mock  Turtle  Soup  247 

Mock  do.  do.  by  ┬μ.  Lister         245 
Moor  Game  72 

Mjilled  Wine,..Aromatic,  Es- 
sence fpT  4/3 
Mustard,  to  make                      370 
Do.  in  a  minute  369 
Do.  to  keep  427 
Meat,  how  long  it  most  hang 

to  be  tender,  p., 60. 
Marketting  Tables,  (.>?p.  p.  36L) 
Mutton,  to  Boil  a  Leg  1 

Neck  2 

Koast  a  Leg  24^ 

Do,  Saadle  26 

Shouldpr  27. 


>┬╗ 


jj 


VADEXt 


423^ 


MoUoDvto  Roasta  Loin 
Neck 
Breast 
Haunch 
Do.  Venison  fashion 


j┬╗ 


No. 
28 
29 
30 
31 
S2 


┬╗i 


9┬╗ 


┬╗┬╗ 


5┬╗ 


or  Veal  Pie  (.A.p.  No#^ 

10.) 

έΑη    Chops  92 

έΑη    Do.  Stewed  490 

έΑη    Broth  194  &  564 

έΑη    Do.  for  Nothing  490 

Mock  do.  195 

to  Hash  484 

Harrico  489 

Mollagatawny  Soup  249 

Mash  room  Saace  305 

έΑη    Do.  Brown  306 

έΑη    Extempore  307 

έΑη    Catsup  439 

έΑη    Quintessence  440 

Nutmeg,  Tincture  of  413* 

Onion,. Ohs.  on,  p.  96 

Stewed  137 

Roasted  138 

έΑη    Young  Onion  Sauce        i96 
Sauce  297 

White  do.  298 

Brown  299 

έΑη    Sage  and  Onion  300 

έΑη     Pickied(Ap.  No.  121.) 
Orange  Jelly  (A p.  No.  47.) 
έΑη.   Gingerbread    (A p.  No. 
75.) 
Orgeat  (A p.  No.  81.) 
Ox-Cheek  Stewed  607 

240 
252 
Tails  Stewed  ~  508 

0;K-Head  Soup  239 

Ox-Tail  Soi┬╗|>  241) 

Ox-HccLJelly.  198 

έΑη    Do.  Soup  240* 

Oystersi,  how  to  feed  and  to 
preserve  their  lives, έΑΦ and 
how  to  tickle,  them  to 
death  181 

έΑη    Essence  of  441 

έΑη    Scalloped  182 

Stewed  182* 

Iried  183 

Sauee  278 

preserved  in  Powder       280 
Oyster  Eatties  (Ap..  No.  2(>0 


Soup 
έΑη    Portable  Soup  of 


s┬╗ 


No. 
Osborne's  Receipts  for  Pud- 
j     dings,  &c.  560 

'  Oat  Meal,    a   substitute   for 
I      Bread-Crumbs,  p.  84 
Pancakes  558 

Parsley  and  Butter  261 

to  preserve,  N.  B,  to       261 
Fried  317 

Crisp  ai8 

Partridge  70 

έΑη    Soup  241. 

Paste  for  Croqnauts,  or   Cut 
Pastry  (A p.  No.  8.) 
έΑη    for  Meat,    or    Savoury 

Pies  (A p.  No.  2.) 
έΑη    for  Boiled  Puddings  (Ap. 
No.  6.) 


┬╗┬╗. 


11 


┬╗ 


for    stringing   Tartlets, 
&c.  (Ap.  No.  7.) 


19 


Pease,  to  Boil  134 

Pudding.'  55^ 

Soups  218 

Do.  in  fife  minutes  555 

Plain  Pease  Soup  221 

Parsnips  129- 
Peristaltic  Persuaders,  p.  34 

Pea  Powder  458 

Perch,  Fried  159 

Boiled  160 

Stewed  158 

Pheasant  68 

έΑη    Mock  do.  69 

Pickles  462 

Pigeons,  to  Roast-  78 

έΑη    to  Broil  98 
έΑη    or  liark  Ptc  (AT).  No. 
13.) 

Pig,  Sucking                    έΑη.  ,  ^^ 
Petit-toes,  or  Sucking  Pig  s 

Feet  12 

Piquaote  Vinegar  453 

Plaice  Fried  155 

Plum  Pudding  553 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce  269 

Poached  Egg9  546 

Poor  Man's  Sauce  310 
έΑη    Do.  Soup  for,  p.  117 
and  No.  229,  Lc. 
Pork,  the  Season  for  it,  and 

the  Accompaniments,  &c.  49^ 

έΑη     to  Roast  a  Leg  60 

έΑη    to  Boil  do.  XL 


434 


DIDEX* 


I) 
i> 
┬╗i 
n 
┬╗ 
if 

έΑη    Chops  to  Fry 
,f    Stusag'es 
Poivrade  Sauce 


No.  I 
Pork  to  boil  without  the  Skin  SI ! 
Mock  Goose  61 ! 

Griskio  62 ; 

Sparerib  63 . 

horn  64 j 

Chine  66 1 

to  Salt  Poi^L  6 

to  boU  Pickled  11  < 

93 

87 

866 

Portable  Soup  262 

Pot  top,   to  convert  into 

Pease  Soap  in  Are  minutes  665 
Potatoes,fifteen  vrays  of  dres- 
sing 102*  to  116 
έΑη    Mucilage ┬╗ or  Starch       448 
,^    Flour,  p.  362 
Potted  Beef,  Veal,  Game         603 
Potted  Ham,  &c.  609 
Poultry,  to  render  immediate- 
ly ripe  for  Roasting,  p.  60 
Pound  Cake  (kp,  No.  68.) 
Plain  Pound  Cake  (Ap.  No.  6.) 
Pravrn  and  Shrimp  Soup         262 
Pudding,  My  664 
Plum  663 
Do.  do.  Sauce  for  269 
Suet  661 
Yorkshire                        662 
Pease                                666 
Maccaroni                      667 
Rice  668 
Custard  660 
Batter                              660 
Bread  and  Blltter,  boil- 
ed and  baked            657 
Boston  Apple,  p.  350 
Spring  Fruit,  p.  360 
Nottingham,  p.  361 
Batter,  p.  351 
Newmarket,  p.  351 
Newcastle  or  Cabinet,p.351 
Vermicelli,  p.  351 
Bread,  p.  351 
Custard,  p.  352 
Boiled  ditto,  p.  352 
Pudding  Catsup  446 


9> 
┬╗ 

it 
J> 
It 
tt 
tt 
7t 


}} 
tt 
tt 
9t 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
it 
tt 


tt 


No. 
Palled  Turkey,  Chickeni  &c.  884 
Punch  directly  478 

έΑη     Essence  of  479 

Puff  Paste  (Ap.  No.l;) 
Pig's  Pettitoes  12 

Pepper,  Obs.  on,  p.  98 
Parsnips  128 

Queen's  Drops  (Ap.~No.6S^ 
Babbit,  Beast  67 

έΑη    Boiled  17 

έΑη    Broiled  97 

έΑη     Soup  241 

έΑη    a  Welch  639 

,,    Pie  (Ap.  No.  17) 
Raised  Pies  (Ap.  No.  6) 

t,    French  Pies  (Ap.  No.  18) 
έΑη     Ham  Pie  (Ap.No.l9) 
έΑη     Pork  pie  (Ap.  No.  21) 
έΑη    Lamb  Pie  (Ap.  No.  23) 
Ragout  Beef,  see  Obs.  to  493 
and  497 
έΑη     Sauce  329 

έΑη    Savoury  Powder  457 

έΑη  .  Quintessence  of  do.  450 
έΑη  of  Poultry  to  dress  530* 
έΑη    Breast  of  Veal  617 

Raspberry  Vinegar  390 

έΑη  Wine  or  Brandfy    46B 

έΑη  Jam  (Ap.No.92) 

Rhubarb,  various  ways  of 

dressing,  p.  364 
Red  Cabbage  Pickled  (Ap.  Noii0> 
Ripe  Fruit  Tar|s  (Ap.  No.30J 
Rice  Pudding  658 

έΑη    Sauce  321* 

Roasting.  See  the  2d  Chap- 
ter of  the   Rudiments   of 
Cookery 
Robert  Sauce  for  Pork  and 

Geese  B42 

Rouge,  see  Obs  to  43a 

Roux,  see  Obs.  to  257 

Rump  Steak  broiled94  &j9p.p.366 
έΑη     Stewed  500 

έΑη     Do.  with  Onion  Gravy   601 
Ruuip  Steak  Pie  (Ap.  No.  15) 
Sage  and  Onion  Sauce  300 

Salt,  to  prepare  for  table  ,     371 


Index. 


425 


9* 

έΑη    Barley  Broth 
έΑη    Leek  Soup 


No. 

Salt  Fish  160 

Salting^  Meat  6 

,,    to  make  it  Red  6 

,,    to  make  it  Savoury  6 

έΑη    to  pickle  Meat^  p.  120 

Scotch  Haggles  488'' 

έΑη     Gravy,  see  Obs.  to        i  326 

Crowdie  205* 

204 
205 
Salads,  Sauce  372  &  453 

Salmoo,  Pickled  161 

if    Boiled  162 

έΑη     Broiled  163 

Sauce,  before  yon  make┬╗  read 
the  8th   Chapter  of  Rudi- 
ments  of  Cookery 
Sauce,  Anchovy  270 

έΑη     Apple  304 

έΑη  Basil  Vineg-ar  or  Wine  397 
έΑη    Do  .when  dry  461 

,f  Balls  for  Mock  Turtle  380 
,)    Bechamel   '  864 

έΑη  Bottled  Oyster  Sauce  278 
έΑη  Beef  Gravy  for  Poultry  329 
i,    Bonne-Bouche   for  a 

Goose  341 

έΑη    Bread  321 

),     Browning  322 

,)    Butter,  melted  256 

Burnt  do.  260 

έΑη     Clarified  do.  259 

Oiled  do.  260 

to  Recover  256 

έΑη    Catsup  of  Walnuts         438 
Oysters  441 

Cockles,  &c.     442 
n  for  Puddings    446 

έΑη    Camp  Vinegar  403 

Do.  Wine  05 

Caper  474 

,)    Catsup,  Cockle 
Celery 


┬╗ 


79 


99 

99 


7> 


7) 


Do.  Brown 


Chervil 
έΑη     Chili  Vinegar 
έΑη    Do.  Catsup 
έΑη    Crisp  Parsley 


442 
289 
290 
264 
405 
442 
3}8 


No. 

Sauce,  <>ucuinbeT 

135 

έΑη    Cun^ 

348 

έΑη'   Egg  Sauce 

267 

έΑη    Essence  of  Turtle 

343 

έΑη        of  Ham 

351 

έΑη    of  Mushroom 

440 

έΑη        of  Vinegar 

399 

έΑη        of  Oysters 

441 

έΑη        Cayenne 

405 

έΑη        Anchovy 

433 

┬╗ 

99 

If 
99 
┬╗ 
99 

n 


99 


71 


77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 
77 


77 
77 


Essence  of  Lemon  Peel  407 

Quintessence  do.  408 

Celory  409 

Ginger  411 

Allspice  412 

Clove  414 

Mace  414 

Cinnamon  416 
of  Soup  Herbs  and 

Savoury  Spice  420-422 

of  Shallot  402 

of  Punch  479 

Eshallot  Sauce  294 

Do.  Vinegar  481 

Fennel  and  Butter  for 

Mackarel,  &c.  265 

Fish  Sauce  425 

Forcemeat,  to  make  373 

Balls  for  Mock  Turtle  380 

Egg  Balls  381 

Curry  do.  382 

Zest  do.  386 

for  Veal  375 

to  mix  Ordnge  or 

Lemon  Peel  387 
Gravy  for  Poultry  ,Ra- 

gouts,  &c.  329 

for  Game  337 

Gravy  for  Wild  Duck  338 

of  Onion  299 

Garlick  311 

for  Roasted  Meat  326 

for  Boiled  327 
Wow  Wow  for  Boiled 

Beef  328 

Wine,  see  Venison  344 

Vinegar  for  Venison  345 

Mutton  347 


426 


IKDfiX. 


71 

J7 


,,    Garlick  do. 
έΑη     Do.  Gravy 


No. 
Saoce  for  Grills  855 

Chops  and  Steaks       356 
Cold  Meat  or  Poultry  359 
Hashes  of  MuttOQ,&.c.  360 
έΑη        of  Veal  361 

,,    Relish  for  Chops  423 

,.     Gooseberry  Sauce  263 

~  272 

311 
έΑη     Vioeg^ar  '  400 

έΑη     Lemon,  Synip  of  3^1 

.,     Lemonade  in  a  minute    411 
έΑη    Lemon  Sauce  273 

έΑλI     Do.  and  Liver,  or  Pars- 
ley and  Ltver  Sauce   257 
.,     Liver  Sauce  for  Fish      288 
;,     Sauce  for  Lobster  285 

.,    Mackarel-roe  Sauce       266 
jy    Mint  Sauce  308 

,,     Do.  Vinegar  398 

Mushroom  Sauce-  305 

Do.  Brown  306 

Do.  in  five  minutes-        307 
Mustard  to  make  370 

Do.  in  a  minute  369 

έΑη     Do.  to  keep.  427 

έΑη     Oyster  Sauce  278 

έΑη     Bottled  do.  280 

.,    Onion  Sauce  297 

yj     Do.  white,  for  Rabbits, 

&c.  298 

fy     Young-  Onions  296 

Fried  or  Brown  Onion 

Sauce  299 

Sage  and  do.  300 

Ox-heel  Jelly  'έΑλ    198 

261 

317 

318 

458 

Pickles  462 

yy    Plnmrpudding  Sauce      2.69 

Poivrade  Sauce  365 

Poor  Man's  Sauce  310 

έΑη     Potatoe  Mucilage  448 

jy    Ragout  Powder  457 

,,    Quiptessence  of  Ragout 

Powder  460 


if 
J* 
?l 

It 


2┬╗ 


ft 
it 

yy  Parsley  and  Butter 

,,  Mock  do.  fried 

έΑη  Do.  crisp 

έΑη  Pea  Powder 


91 


ii 
ti 


'  No. 

Sauce',  Rice  32f 

έΑη     Sage  and  Onion  Sauce  900 
i      έΑη     Salad  Sauce  372 

I     έΑη     Salad  Mixture  453 

έΑη     Sauce  Superlatiire  429 

Sauce-Box,  463 

Savoys  120 

Savoury  Salt  Beef  496 

Savoury  Biscuits  (Ap.  No.  έΓυ9) 

έΑη    Pies^Pasties,  Lc.  ( Ap*. 
No.  12) 
Small  Puffs  of  Preserved  Fruit 

CAp.  No.  36) 
Scots  Gravy,  see  Obs.  to  326 

έΑη     CoUops  5I7┬╗' 

έΑη    Minced  do.  p.  317 

έΑη     Haggles  488* 

Scots  Barley  Broth  204 

Shallot  Sauce  294 

έΑη     Wine  402 

Shrimps,  Potted  175 

Shrimp  Sauce  283- 

Shrub  479 

Sorrel  Sauce  291 

Sprouts  121 

Sparerib  of  Bacon,  to  Roast     63^ 
Spices,  Obs.  on  p.2i98>4 
Sponge  Biscuits  (Ap.  No.  66) 
Soup-herb  and  Savoury  Pow- 
der 430 

έΑη     Spirit  420,421,422 

Spinage  122 

Stock,  first,  Note  to  185 

έΑη     second,  Note  to  186 

Stuffing  373 

έΑη     for  Hare  379 

έΑη    Goose  378 

έΑη     Turkey  376,  377 

έΑη     for  Veal  374 

Suet  Pudding  551 

Syrup,  of  Vinegar  395 

έΑη     Lemon  391 

έΑη    Orange  392 

Spring  Fruit,  Tarious  ways  of 

dressing,  p.  352 
Sprats,  to  Broil  170* 

to  Pickle  161 

to  Stew  ITP** 


a 


it 


"^έΨι1  <l'> 


INDEX. 


4^ 


Soups,  under  the  name  of  the 

article  they  are  made  of. 
Soup,  Obs.  on,  p.  93 
Soup  and  Bouilli 
Stewpan┬τ,  p.  d3 
Suet  to  clarify,  for  frying 
Sausages,  to  fry 
Sweetbread,  to  fry 
Sea  Kale 
Soles,  to  boil 
to  fry 


No. 


┬╗ 


n 


to'  stew 
έΑη    filletted 


Sweet,  or  Short 


238 

194 
87 
88 
124 
144 
145 
146, 158, 164 
147 
and  Crisp 


Tart  Paste  (Ap.  No.  4) 

Skate,  fried  154 

Taste,  the  Magazine  of  463 

Tammis,  Note  to  189 

Tankard,  cool  464 

Tarragon  Sauce  264 

έΑη     Vinegar  396 
Tart  Paste  (Ap.  No.  4) 
Tartlets  (Ap.  No.  34) 

Tea,  to  make  ^50 

Tewahdiddle  467 

Thickening,  or  Roux  257 

Toast  and  Water  463* 

Toast  and  Cheese  439 

Toasted  Cheese  540 

TomaU  Sauce  292 

έΑη    Mock  do.  293 

Tongue,  to  boil  15 

Tooth-ach,  Cure  for  667 
Tripe  18  &Ap.  p.  365 
Trifle  (Ap.  No.  49) 

"Turbot,  to  boil  140 

.έΑη    to  fry  12 

Turkey,  to  boil  16 
to  fatten  and  whiten         16 

Roast  67 

Hash,  &c.  533 

έΑη    Pulled  534 

Turnips  130 

έΑη    to  mash  131 

Turnip-Tops  132 

Turnip  Soup  213 

Turtle^  to  dress  250 


No. 

Turtle  Sauce  343 

έΑη     Essence  343* 

Twelfth  Cake  (Ap.  No.  49) 

Vauxhall  Nectar,  to  imitate     480 

Veal,  to  boil  4 

to  roast  33 

Fillet  34 

Loin  35 

Shoulder  36 

Neck,  best  end  37 

Breast  38 

Sweetbread  39 

Cutlet  90 

Broth  191 

Gravy  192 

Knuckle  Soup  193 

Stuffing,  Roger  Fowler's379 
Forcemeat  375 

Veal,  minced  511 

Hashed  611* 

Sauce  for  361 

excellent  Hot  Ragout  of 

Cold  Veal  512 

Potted  503 

Breast  Ragout  517 

Do.  with  Pease,  Note  to  517 
Veal  Olives  518 

Cutlets,  broiled  521 

Knuckle  to  Ragout         522 
Do  with  Rice  523 

Gay*s  Receipt    do.        524 

Veal  and  Ham  Patties  (Ap.  No.28) 
έΑη  έΑη     Pie  (Ap.  No.  20) 

Vegetables,  Obs.  on.  See  the 
5th  Chap,  of  the  Rudiments 
of  Cookery 

Vegetable  Essences,  to  ex- 
tract 417 

Venison,  to  Roast  a  Haunch     63 
Neck  or  Shoulder  64 

to  Hash  628 

to  Vensonify  Mutton        32 
Wine  Sauce  for  344 

Sharp  do.  for  345 

Sweet  do.  346 

Mutton  Gravy  347 

έΑη    Pasty  (Ap.  No.  9) 


V 
It 

┬╗ 
if 

fi 

19 
11 
It 
11 

11 
11 


11 


11 

91 
}> 

11 
11 

>┬╗ 
11 

91 


11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 


'v  'I  "  'iiiinwj 


49S 


INDU. 


Vinegar^  Saoce  t^r  Veoigon 
Bornet  or  Cucumber 
BasU 
CreM 
Eih&llot 
GarUck 
Uorteraduh 
Camp 
for  Salads 
Tarragon 
Raspberry 


ft 

t9 


tt 
11 
V 
if 
9> 


n 

if 


No. 
345 

339 
8d7 

807* 

401,402 

400 

399* 
403 
396 
396 
390 


19 


Sweet  and  SaYOuiy  herbs, 

Spices,  &c.  d9d 

Green  Mint  έΑλ  398 
Vol  au  Vent  (Ap.  No.  25) 

Walauu  to  Pickle  870 

Walnut  Catsup  438 

Water  Soucby  166 


[.  Ha. 

I  Water-gmel  immediately        572 

έΑη    various  Relishes  tor        572 
Welch  Rabbit  539 

Wheat-ears  81 

White  Sauce  364 

White  Bait,  to  dress  173 

WbiUngs,  fried  153 

Whip  Syllabub  (Ap.  No.  50) 
Widgeon  and  Teal  76 

WUd  OumIls  74 

Wine  Sauce,  for  Venisoa,lK.  344 
Woodcock  76 

Wow  Wow  Sauce  for  Boiled 

Beef  ^8 

Weight,  the  Diminution  that 

takes  place  in  Cookingi  p.  711 
Yorkshire  Pudding  552 

Zest 


Schlesinger  Library 
Radcliffe  College  '| 


Culinary  Collection 


r         1 


If 


1-1-3^ 


H 

;? 


V 


έΑλ         ┬╗        ┬τ 


t      i 


┬τ  .    .*  *    4 


1  1 

I 


/ 


-      ISIS 


WM  E- 


%flrffegriiy 


evt- 
and 


\ooks  of 


l^,fi>e  Pains 

_^ffelp   tmd 

l^j.  If  any  of 

\^,mce┬μarily 

\^elveSf  cry 

\Mean  and 

^.Reception. 

^Jing  whole 

^e'j,  if  we 

this  kind, 

__^  but  theft 

3|i  fail  us  in 

^^fthe  Day 

%with  great 

jlbi  dragg'd 

Js 


m     ^= 


fWtf  as  tfe  Defire  of  doing  Good  was  the  fole 
Motive  that  at  Jir/i  enga^d  me  in  this  Work  \ 
Jo  has  thai  great  ^rinctfle  ever  been  too  f acred 
in  my  E/ieem^  tojuffer  the  lea/i  Mixture  ofUn^ 
faithfuhefs  or  Carelejfnefs  throughout  the  whole 
Management  and  Compojure  of  it :  And  farther 
to  declare^  That  there  has  been  no  Spare  either 
of  Labour^  or  Ttme^  or  Money ^  in  order  to  the 
making  this  CoUeftion  the  beji  and  moji  truly 
Profitable  in  its  kind:,  and  that  the  great  KnoW" 
ledge^  and  long  Experience  of  thofe  Excellent 
Perjons  who  contributed  to  its  ^rodu^ion^  have 
abundantly  qualify  d  them  for  fetting  the  laji 
Hand  to  fuch  a  nork. '  'To  thefe  therefore  are 
due  the  greateji  Tribute  of  Praife^  ana  higheji 
Acknowledgments  of  Gratitude^  who  with  a 
Noble  Charity  and  Univerfal  Benevolence^  have 
Exposed  to  the  World  fuch  invaluable  Secrets^  as 
others^  of  a  lefs  generous  Temper^  would  have 
taken  έΑλ  a  ^ride  in^  and  made  almofi  a  Merit  of 
Concealing. 

A^d  here  I  freely  own  the  great  elf  Share  of 
our  J'hanks  to  be  juftly  owi^?g  to  the  Fair  Sex  ; 
whoj  whether  it  be  from  the  greater  J'endernefs 
of  their  Natures^  the  greater  Opportunities  of 
Leijt^ye^  or  Advantages  of  acquiring  Experrence^ 
or  from  whatever  other  Qwfe^  are  always  found 
moji  Acfive  and  Induflrious  in  this^  as  well  as 
ffi^li  other  kinds  of  Charity.     Ohy  Heavenly 

Charity  / 


Kkh  iti  watting  upon  the  Voor^  and  Mtjtreffis 
in  Nurfing^  and  becoming  Hand^  maids  to  their 
own  Servants  ?  How  often  have  I  feen  thee  make 
Perjons  of  the  Highefi  ^ality  kneil  down  to 
the  DreJJing  of  a  Poor  Man's  Wound  ?  Thofe 
of  the  great efl  Nicenejs  and  Delicacy  of  Senjij 
vifit  the  Chambers  offuchy  whofe  Poverty  and 
Offen/ive  Dijiemfers  have  rendered  them  N'au-- 

Jeous  and  Loathjome  beyond  Expreffion  /?  j4nd 
thq/e  of  Tender  and  Weakly  Confutations  walk 

^  thro'  Midnight  Frofts  to  the  jyjijlance  offome 
Poor  Neighbouring  Woman  in  her  Painful  and 
Perilous  Hour^  ?  And  wonderful  is  the  Succefs 
with  which  Almighty  God  does  often  blefs  their 
Labours  (even  in  the  Ufe  of  Plain  and  Simple 
Means  J  whoje  Hearts  he  frft  difpofes  to  fuch 
Beneficial  Undertakings.  How  earneftly  is  it 
to  be  wijh'd^  that  fuch  Examples  did  more  uni┬╗ 
verfaWy  abound^  and  that  all  our  fine^Ladies 
would  frive  to  adorn  their  CharatierSj  by  be^ 
coming  (to  ufe  the  Judicious  Mr.  BickerftafF'j 
PhrafeJ  Notable  Women  ? 

Uor  can  I  forbear  recommending  this  Generous 
and  Beneficial  Pratiice  to  the  Gentlemen  of  the 
Clergy,  efpeciaUy  to  thofe  whofe  Partjhts  arere^ 
mote  from  other  Help.  How  Joan  would  their 
fuperior  Learning  and  Sagacity  render  them  Maf- 
ters  of  this  UfefulArt  ?  How  greatly  would  the 
Exercife  of  it  endear  them  to  their  People  ?  PVhat 
Reverence  and  Efteemy  and  confeque^itly^  what 

A  3  Oppor^ 


would  this  procure  them  ?  j4nd  with  what 
Power  and  jiutherity  would  their  Divine  In^ 
firuSiions  enter  into  the  Hearts  of  their  Audi-- 
ence^  when  proceeding  from  the  Mouth  offucb 
a  Benefactor y  to  whom^  under  God^  perhaps  mofi 
ef  them  are  beholden  for  their  Healthy  their 
iiimbsp  or  J  it  may  he^  their  very  Lives  ?  T^his 
will  be  to  imitate  their  Great  Majlerj  who  went 
about  doing  Good^  atid  healing  all  thofe  who 
were  opprefsd  by  the  Devil^  and  whoy  wheres- 
oever He  met  a  Patient^  JeUomfaiVd  of  making  . 
a  Convert. 

I  make  no  Doubt^  but  the  Learned  Gentlenien 

of  the  Faculty  will  be  too  Generous  to  Mif-coH" 

firue  this  fmaU  CoWt&ion  of  Phyfical  Receipts, 

(dejigndfor  the  Service  of  thofe  who  are  neither 

within  the  Reach  of  their  Fifits^  nor  in  a  Capa^ 

city  of  gratifying  their  Trouble  J  as  an  Inva/ion 

of  their  Province^  or  a  DifrefpeB  to  their  <P^r- 

fons.  I  declare  myjelffo  far  from  intendin^ither 

ofthefe^  thaty  on  the  contrary  ^  lefeem  it  a  great 

Happinefs  andBleJJing  to  be  able  to  have  a  ready 

ana  conjt^int  Recourje  td  their  Ajji fiance.  And  I 

am  proud  to  own^  that  fnoji  ^  the  jolhwing 

Prefcriptions   came  from   the   mofi  Eminent 

Hands  in  that  Profeffton.  7'he  reji  are  all  Inno-- 

cent  and  Safe  ;  and  both  the  one  and  the  other 

Approvd  (not  from  jingle  Inflances  of  Succefs^ 

hut)  from  a  long  and  repeated  Experience. 

ne 


^he  Direliions  relating  /(?  C  o  o  k  e  R  y  are 
Palatable^  Ufefuly  and  Intelligibie^  which  is  more 
than  can  be  faid  of  any  now  Publick  in  that 
kind  J  fame  great  Mafters  having  ghen  us  Ruks 
in  thatArtJofirangely  oddandfantaftical^  that 
'tis  hard  to  fay  ^  Whether  the  Reading  has  given 
more  Sport  and  Diverfionj  or  the  PraHice  more 
Vexation  and  Chagrin^  in  Jpoiling  us  many  a 
good  Difh^  by  following  their  Dire^ions.  But 
Jo  it  is^  that  a  Poor  Woman  muft  be  laughed  aty 
for  only  Sugaring  a  Mefi  of  Beans  ;  whilft  a 
Great  Name  mufi  be  had  in  Admiration^  for 
Contriving  Relifhes  a  thoufand  times  moreDif- 
tafful  to  the  Palate^  provided  they  are  but  at 
tm  fame  time  more  Expenjhe  to  the  Purfe. 

/  can  affure  yoUy  that  a  Number  ofverj  Cu^ 
rious  and  DelicateHoufe^wives  Clublf  dtojurnijb 
out  this  ColleHion^  for  the  Service  ofToung  and 
Unexperienced  Dames^  who  may  from  hence  be 
InfiruSipd  in  the  Polite  Management  of  their 
Kitchens^  and  the  Art  of  Adorning  their  T'ables 
with  a  Splendid  Frugality.  Nor  do  I  defpair 
but  the  XJfe  of  it  may  defend  into  a  Lower  rorm^ 
and  teach  Cook-maids  at  Country^Inns  to  ferve 
us  up  a  very  agreeable  Meal^fromfiich  Prpvtfions 
as  are  Plainefi^  and  always  at  hand ;  injlead  of 
Spoiling  thofe  which  are  moft  Rare  and  CofHy^ 
and  provoking  the  Company  topafs  them  awiyy 
in  hafy  Curjesy  to  the  Place  from  whence  the 

A  4  mluclyf 


/ 


'-* 


.J. 


:|:;|S?;  O  L- 


'έΑλS.┬τ>s. 


έΑλS' 


i┬π!illl|i1bii|  N 


-.^.f. 


Hired  too  finall,  a  little  Faggot  of  Thyme, 
and  Sweet-marjoram  ;  put  thefe  into  a  little 
Sauce-pan  with  nfear  a  Pound  of  Butter ;  and 
9$  they  boil  up,  fliake  in  feme  Flour,  to 
boil  with  it  to  the  Quantity  of  a  Dredging^ 
box  full ;  then  put  a  Loaf  of  French  Bread 
into  the  Broth  to  boil ;  mingle  the  Broth 
and  Herbs  together  :  When  you  have  fea- 
fon'd  it  to  your  Tafte  for  Salt,  add  fbmc 
finall  white  Toail  neatly  cut,  and  the  young 
Peas. 

A  very  good  Soup. 

np  A  K  E  a  Shin  of  Beef,  a  Crag  of  Mutton 
-*έΑλ  or  Veal,  and  a  Bit  of  very  good  Bacon^ 
and  half  a  Pound  of  Rice  ^  fet  them  on  the 
Fire  in  as  much  Water,  as  you  think  will 
boil  them  to  Rags  j  keep  it  cover'd  all  the 
while  :  When  all  the  Goodnels  of  the  Meat 
is  out,  ftrain  it  off,  and  put  to  it  ibme 
whole  Pepper,  fome  Gloves,  Mace,  and  Salt 
to  your  Tafte.  You  may  put  Soup  Herbs^ 
or  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  plump'd  Rice  or 
Verma-jelly  ;  boil  a  French  Loaf,  or  two  or 
three  Pidgeons,  for  the  middle  j  put  in, 
with  the  Spice,  a  little  Faggot  of  Thyme, 
Savory,  and  Marjoram  :  This  makes  an  in- 
comparable Peas  Soup,  if  you  put  in  a  Quart 
of  Peas  with  the  Meat  at  firft,  inftcad  of 
Rice. 

jivery 


Vf^ 


^oKcry,  ^c.  It 


jI  tuery  good  Peas-Soup; 

PU  T  three  or  four  Pounds  of  lean  coarfe 
Beef,  with  three  Pints  of  Peas,  into  two 
Gallons  of  Water  ;  let  it  boil,  till  the  Meat 
is  all  to  Rags  ;  and  half  an  Hour  before  you 
ftrain  it  out,  put  in  two  or  three  Anchoyies  ; 
then  ftrain  it  from  the  Husks  and  Meat,  and 
put  into  the  Sauce-pan  as  much  as  you  want 
lor  that  M^al,  with  an  Onion  ftuck  with 
Cloves,  a  Race  of  Ginger  bruis'd,  a  little 
Faggot  of  Thyme,  Savory,  and  Parfly,  and 
a  little  Pepper  ;  let  it  boil  thus  near  half  an 
Hour  :  Stir  in  a  Piece  of  Butter,  and  fry 
fbipe  Forc'd-meat  Balls,  Bacon,  and  French 
Bread  cut  in  Dice,  with  Spinage  boil'd  green^ 
to  put  to  it  Ik  the  Difii. 

To  make  Craw-Fifli,  or  Prawn-Soup. 

np  A  K  E  fix  Whitings,  one  large  Eel,  with 
-έΨιέΨι  half  a  Thorn-bacfc,  clean  them  as  to 
boil,  and  put  them  into  a  Pot,  with  as  much 
Water  as  will  cover  thcip  j  fcum  them  clean, 
and  put  in  whole  Pepper,  Mace,  Ginger, 
Thyme,  Parfly,  and  an  Onion  flucfc  With 
Cloves,  with  a  little  Salt,  fo  let  them  boil 
to  Malh  ;  then  take  fifty  Crg-w-fifti,  or,  if 
they  cannot  be  got,  take  an  hundred  Prawns, 
take  out  the  Tails,  and  pick  out  the  Bag,^ 

and 


and  all  the  Woolly  Parts  that  are  about  the 
Body  ;  put  all  into  a  Sauce-pan  with  Water 
and  Vinegar,  Lemon,  Salt,  and  a  Bunch  of 
fweet  Herbs  ;  let  them  ftew  over  a  gentle 
Fire,  till  ready  to  boil ;  then  take  out  the 
Tails,  and  lave  them  carefully  j  but  beat  all 
the  other  Shells  in  t^e  little  Liquor  they  were 
ftewM  in,  which,  with  a  French  Roll,  you 
muft  beat,  till  the  Shells  are  extremely  fine  : 
When  you  have  walh'd  all  the  Goodiiefs  out 
with  their  own  Liquor,  pour  the  other  Fifh 
Liquor  thro'  the  Shells,  and  ftrain  all  from 
the  Fifli  and  Grit ;  then  have  a  large  Carp 
ready  ftcw'd,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the 
Dilh ;  add  the  Body  of  a  Lobfter  to  the  Soup, 
with  fome  ftrong  Gravy,  and  burnt  Butter  ; 
heat  the  Tails  of  the  Craw-fifli  in  the  Soup, 
and  pour  all  over  the  Carp. 

Peas-Soup  for  Lent,  or  any  Fajilng 

"Day. 

p  U  T  a  Quart  of  good  breal^ing  Peas  to  fix 
*  Quarts  of  Water,  and  boifthem  till  they 
are  tender  ;  then  take  out  fome  of  the  clear 
Liquor,  and  ftrain  the  iB^as  as  clean  as  you 
can,  from  the  Husks  :  Take  Ibme  Butter, 
and  boil  it ;  and  when  it  breaks  in  the  middle, 
put  to  it  an  Onion  and  ibme  Mint,  cut  very 
fmall ;  Spinage,  and  Sorrel,  and  a  little  Cel-^ 
lery,  cut  large  ;  ftir  it  often,  and  let  it  boil 
about  a  quarter  of  an  Hour  j  then  fliake  in 
3  fome 


in  the  thick  ftrain'd  Liquor  fomc  Pepper,. 
Mace,  and  Salt,  and  boil  it  an  Hour  longer  j 
then  put  into  as  much  as  will  make  a  large 
Difli,  one  Pint  of  fweet  thick  Cream  ;  put  a 
French  Roll  crifp'd,  and  dipp'd  in  Milk,  in 
the  middle  of  the  Difti. 

^  To  make  a  Mcat-^Spup,  'very  good. 

HP  A  K  E  a  Piece  of  coarfc  Neck  Beef,  a  Crag 
^  of  Mutton,  and  a  Knuckle  of  Veal ;  boil 
all  thefe  to  Rags,  with  Salt,  and  Onion,  and 
whole  Pepper  ;  when  there  is  no  more  Good- 
nels  left  in  the  Meat,  ftrain  the  Liquor  into 
a  Stew-pan,  and  fet  it  over  the  Fire  j  put 
into  it  Cloves,  and  Mace,  and  a  little  Lemoa 
Peel ;  let  it  boil  a  little,  then  put  in  a,  Pint 
of  ftrong  Clareti  three  or  four  'Anchovies, 
with  Gravy  fquecz'd  out  of  a  lean  Piece  of 
Beef  fry'd  for  that  Purpofe  ;  put  in  Ox  Pa- 
lates cut  in  Dice,  let  them  be  firft  boiPd  ve- 
ry tender,  Veal  Sweetbreads  boil'd.  Lettuce, 
Endive,  Spinage,  or  what  Herbs  you  pleafe, 
boird  green  ;  then  take  French  Bread,  cut 
it  thin,  and  toaft  it  ;  lay  your  Palates, 
Sweetbreads,  and  Herbs  over  all  the  Toafts : 
Have  a  Fowl  boilM,  and  the  Breaft  ftuff'd 
withTorc*d-meat,  and  lay  in  the 'middle  of 
the  Difti ;  pour  the  Soup  over  all. 

To 


-C  U    K^VffUf     ^ , 


*/    c 


TAKE  a  Piece  of  Flank-Beef,  cut  it 
fquare,  and  take  off  the  inner  Skin  ; 
make  a  Brine  of  Water  and  Bay-lalt,  ftrong 
enough  to  bear  an  Egg,  to  the  Breadth  of  a 
Six- pence  ;  let  the  Beef  lie  in  it  one  Week, 
then  rub  it  all  over  with  Salt-petre,  and  let 
it  lie  three  Days  longer  ;  then  take  one 
Ounce  of  white  Pepper,  one  large  Nutmeg^ 
thjB  Weight  of  it  in  Mace,  and  the  Weight 
pf  both  in  Cloves  j  beat  it  all  grofly,  and 
firew  upon  the  Beef ;  then  roll  it  up  hard, 
bind  it  with  a  Tape,  and  few  it  up  in  a 
Cloth,  and  put  it  in  a  long  Earthen  Pan ; 
fill  it  up  with  half  Claret,  and  halfWatcr^ 
cover  it  clofe  with  a  coarfe  Palte,  and  bake 
it  twelve  Hour^  in  a  very  hot  Oven  ;  then 
take  off  the  Tape,  and  roll  the  Cloth  very 
hard  about  it  again,  tie  it  up,  and  hang  it  up 
to  dr^in  and  cool :  If  you  like  Herbs,  Thyme, 
Sweet-marjoran>,  and  Farlly  flired,  ^re  the 
proper  Sort  ;  but  it  does  not  roll  fo  clofe 
with  as  without.  It  cannot  be  bak'd  too 
tender. 

To  make  French-Cutlets,  nsery  good. 

C[KIN  a  Loin  of  Mutton,  and  cut  it  into 
^  Stakes  ;  then  take  feme  of  the  Lean  of  a 
Leg  of  Veal,  the  Weight  in  Becf-fuct,  two 

Anchovies, 

3 


per,  Salt,  and  grated  Bread,  with  the  Yolks 
of  two  Eggs  ;  make  Holes  in  the  Lean  of 
the  Stakes,  and  fill  them  full  of  this  Seafon- 
ing,  and  ipread  it  all  oyer  the  Stakes,  then 
butter  as  many  Pieces  of  white  Paper,  as 
you  have  Cutlets,  and  wrap  them  up  eyery 
one  by  themfelycs  ;  turn  up  the  Edges  of 
the  Papers  with  great  Care,  that  none  of  the 
MoiAure  get  out  y  therefore  let  the  Papers 
be  large  enough  to  turn  up  ieyeral  times  at 
the  Edg^e  ;  and,  if  Occafion  be,  Aick  a  Pin, 
to  keep  it  all  in  ;  for  this  Grayy  is  all  their 
Sauce  :  When  they  are  thus  tight  wrapp'd 
up,  put  them  upon  a  Mazarine,  and  bake 
them  i  when  they  are  enough,  take  them 
off  the  Difh  they  were  bak'd  on,  and  put 
them  on  a  clean  hot  Difii ;  do  not  take  ofif 
the  Papers,  but  ferve  them  in  as  they  were 
bak'd  :  This  is  a  yery  delicious  fayoury 
Difti,  and  done  with  litle  Danger  of  fpoiling, 
if  you  wrap  them  up  clofe.  Many  People 
like  thefc  beft  wifhout  Sauce  ;  but  if  you 
chufe  it,  let  it  be  ftrong  Grayy,  Spice,  Oni- 
on, flired  Capers,  Juice  of  Lemon  Ihook  up 
with  a  Bit  of  Butter  ;  but  they  are  fayoury 
and  moft  wholefbme  alone. 


To 


To  Collar  a  Breaji  of  Mutton,  to  Eat 

Hoit. 

TA  K  E  a  large  Breaft  of  Mutton,  bone  ft^ 
and  take  out  all  the  Griftles,  rub  it  alt 
over  with  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg,  feafon  it  with 
Pepper,  Salt,  and  Nutmeg,  Parfly,  Thyme, 
S>ycet-marjoram,  all  jfhrcd  fmall,  Shallot,  if 
you  love  it ;  wafli  and  cut  Anchovy  in  Bits^ 
ftrew  all  this  over  the  Meat,  roll  it  up  hard, 
tie  it^with  a  Tape,  and  put  it  into  boiling 
Water ;  when  'tis  tender,  take  it  out,  cut  it 
in  round  Slices,  hof  too  thin  j  pour  over  it  a 
Sauce  made  9f  Gravy,  Spice,  Anchovy,  Cla- 
ret, Onion,  a  few  iweet  Herbs,  ftrain'd  and 
thicken'd  with  Butter,  and  fhred  Pickles. 
Garnifh  with  Pickles*^ 


-  .  t 


To  iSfe'fo^^pMgeons. 

TAKE  fix  Pidgeons  .with  their  Giblets, 
cut  the  Pidgeons  in  quarters,  and  put 
ibcm  in  the  Stew-pan^  w^h  two  Blades  of 
]^ace,  a  little  Pepper  and  :Salt,  and  juft 
Water  enough  to  ftevv  themAvithout  burning; 
when  they  arc  tender,  thicken  the  Liquor 
with  the  Yolk  of  one  Egg,  three  Spoonfuls 
of  thick  fweet  Cream,  a  Bit  of  Butter,  and 
a  little  (hred  Thyme  and  Parfly  j  fhake  them 
all  up  together,  and  garnifli  it  with  Lemon..  ^ 

76 


To  hroil  pigeons  whole. 

/^  UT  off  the  Wings  and  Neck  clofc,  Icaye 
^^  the  Skin  at  the  Neck  to  tie  clofe,  then 
have  fome  grated  Bread,  two  Pigeons  Li- 
vers, one  Anchovy,  a  quarter^  of  a  Pound 
of  Butter,  half  a  Nutmeg  grated,  a  little 
Pepper  and  Salt,  a  very  little  Thyme  and 
Sweet-marjorum  flired  :  Mix  all  together ; 
>\it  a  Piece  as  big  as  a  Wallnut  into  each 
Igeon,  few  up  your  Rumps  and  Necks, 
ftrew  a  little  Pepper,  Salt  and  Nutmeg  on 
theOut-Gde,  broil  them  on  a  very  flow  Char- 
coal-fire on  the  Hearth;  bafie  and  turn  them 
very  often.  Sauce  is  melted  Butter  j  or  rich 
Gravy,  if  you  like  it  higher  tafted- 

To  7)refs  a  Turb^;  or  any  2)ijh  of 

έΨιt 

T  A  Y  the  Fifh  ypii  arc  to  tjbil,  into  a  Pint 
*^  of  Vinegar,  fej^fon'd  with  Salt,  Pepper, 
Onion,  and  a  Fagot  of  Thyme,  Marjoram 
and  Parfly  J  when^it  has  lain  an  Hour,  put  "^ 
the  Fifti  with  the  Pickle  carefully  into  your 
B^iflh-kettle  of  boiling  Water  j  to  it  put  Cloves, 
Mace  and  Anchovies,  and  a  Bit  of  Horfe- 
radiih ;  when  they  are  enough,  take  them 
out  to  drain,  let  the  Ground  of  your  Sauce 
be  half  a  Pint  of  the  well  feafon'd  Liquor 
in. which  they  were  boird,  and  the  ftrain'd 

B  Liquor 


'htcknefi: 
and  the 


1ft  CooJcery,  &c,  ip 

little  Parfly  finely  ihred ;  mix  this  very  well, 
and  put  them  into  Jittle  Square  Pafties  of  hoc 
Cruft,  or  Puif-cruft,  if  you  like  it  better : 
Fatten  them  very  well,  and  fry  them  in  a 
large  Pan- full  of  Lard,  clarified  Butter,  Suet 
or  Oil.  You  may  roll  this  Forc'd-filh  into 
Balls  with  grated;  Bread  j  lay  tljem  rounds 
'End  upon  your  Fifh. 

To  !PickJe  Pork,  a  gcod  Way: 

.XJ  ONE  it,  and  cut  it  into  fuch  Pieces  as 
έΑλ*^  will  lie  moft  convenient  in  your  Pow- 
dering-tub,  which  mull  be  large  and  found 
to  hold  the  Meat  and  preferve  the  Brine ;  the 
narrower  arid  deeper  your  Tub  is,  the  better 
^twill  keep  the  Meat ;  rub  every  Piece  well 
with  Salupetre,  then  take  one  Part  Bay-falt, 
and  two  Parts  common  Salt,  aod  rub  every 
Piece^  very  well,  and  cover  it  with  Salt,  a$ 
you  do  a  Flitch  of  Bacon ;  then  ftrew  Salt 
in  the  Bottom  of  your  Tub,  and  lay  the 
!i?ieces  in  as  clofc  as  poflible,  ftrewing  Salt 
round  the  Sides  of  the  Tub  :  As  your  Salt 
melts  on  the  Top,  ftrew  ┬σn  more.  It  will 
Jkeep  a  great  while,  and  is  very  good. 

To  Collar  ^  Pig. 

SfLlT  it  tip  the  Belly  and  Back,  then 
take  but   all  the   Bones,    walh  it  clean 
from  the  Blood,  and  liy  it  to  foak  in  a  Pap 

B  a  of 


to   .     A  CoJkSiiott  of  Receipts 

of  Water  a   Day  and  Night,  .fliifting  the 
Water  as  it  grows  red;  then  take  it  out. and 
wipe  it  very  dry,  ftrew  all  the  Infide  of  both 
Pieces  very  well  with  Salt,  Feppcr,  Cloves, 
Mace  and  Nutmeg  beat  and  grated  ;  then 
roll  them  lip  ai  hard  and  tight  as  you  poC- 
fiblyc^anin,  two  Collars,  bind  them  with  a 
long  Tape  as  clofe  as  'twill  lie,  and  after  that ' 
few  them  up  in  Cloths:  The   Liquor  you 
boil  them   in  muft  be  a  Quart  of  White- 
wine,    a  little   good  Vinegar,  and  the  reft 
Water ;  there  muft  be  a  great  deal  more  than 
will  cover   chem,    becaufc   they  muft  boil 
leifurely  above  three  Hours ;  put  into  the 
Liquor  a  Piece  of  Ginger,  a  Nutmeg  cut  in 
Pieces,'  a    few   Cloves,    and  two  Blades  of 
Mace,  a  Sprig  of  Bays,  and  a  few  Leaves  of 
Sage,  with  fome  Salt ;  when   they   are  ten- 
der, take  them  up,  and  fqueeze  them  tfght 
in  the  Cloth,  that   they  may  come  out  in 
fliape :  When  the  Liquor  they  were  hcrl'd 
in  is  cold,  add  half  a  Pint  of  Vinegar^  and 
keep  the  Collars  in  it* 

To  make  Veal-Cutlets. 

1^^  U  T  as  many  Slices  of  a  Leg  of  Veal  as 
^^  will  make  a  handfome  Difh,  beat  them 
with  your  Rolling-pin,  lay  them  fingle  in  a 
large  Difh,  and  grate  Nutmeg  all  over  them, 
and  ftrew  them  with  Salt,  lard  fome  with 
Bacon  and  pour  the  Yolks  of  three  Eggs, 

well 


sn  Cookery^  c^c /  %. 

well  beaten,  oyer  all ;  make  them  all  moift 
%vith  the  Egg/ and  fry  them  of  a  fine  Cplp(2r 
in  Clarified  Butter ;  put  frefti  Frying  to  every 
Difti:  When  they  are  all  nicely  fry'd,  put 
Ibme  Gravy  into  the  Pan,  and  the  Juice  of  a 
Lemon,  with  Butter  and  Flour  flioofc  iri'j 
tofs  up  all  'till  'tis  thick,  and  power  it  over 
the  Cutlets  j  garnifh  with  Bits  of  Bacon  fry 'dL 
and  Forc'd-meat  Balls.  If  it  be  a  Cow-Calf, 
fill  the  Udder  and  Fat  with  the  Forc'd-meat, 
and  roaft  it  finely  for  the  Middle.  Make 
your  .Gravy  for  the  Sauce,  of  the  Bones  and 
Skins  you  do  not  ufe ;  a  Bit  of  Beef,  Sweet- 
herbs,  Spice,  and  White-wine,  to  make  it 
look  pale, 

2t?  make  Dutch-Beef,  a  wry  good  way, 

TAKE  eight  Pound  of  Buttock-Beef  with- 
oiit  Bone,  rub  it  all  over  with  fix  Ounces 
of  coarfe  Sugar;  let  it  lie  two  Days,  then 
wipe  it  a  little ;  then  take  fix  Ounces  of  Salt- 
petre beaten,  a  Pint  of  Petre-falt,  and  a  Pint 
of  White-.falt,  jrub  it  well  in,,  and  let  it  lie 
three  Weeks,  rubbing  and  turning  it  every 
Day ;  then  few  it  up  in  a  Cloth,  and  hang 
it  in  your  Chimtiey  to  dry  j  turn  it  upfide 
down  every  Day,  that  the  Brine  do  not 
fettle :  Boil  it  iii  Pump-water  'till  His  yery 
tender. 


v# 


B  3  ^fl 


έΑλ*^ 


*έΑλ┬╗ 


fi,         A  O)lh0ion  of  Receipts 


^  r 


^'Pricajfey  Chickens/or  Swcct-Breads. 

/TT  AKE  two  or  three  Chickens  (if  fmall) 

-έΨιέΑλ    wafh  them  clean  frpm  the  Blood,,  and 

cut  them  to  Pieces,  not  too  fmall,  fet  them 

on  in  as  much  Water  as  will  cover  them; 

when  they  boil  up,  fcum  them  very  cleiti, 

then  take  them  out  and  llrain  the  Liquor  ; 

take  Part  of  it,  to  which   put  fome  Pepper 

whole\nd  beaten,  a  Blade  or  two  of  Mace, 

and  Salt  to  your  Tafte,  a  little  Lemon-peel, 

a  very  fmall  Onion  ftuck  with  three  or  four 

Cloves,  a  quarter  of  ^  Pint  of  White-wine 

warm'd  and  put  to  it :  Boil  all  thefe  toge-- 

ther  'till  the  Chickens  are  enough^  Jthen  take 

three  Spoonfuls  of  Cream,  a  little  Flour  mix*d 

with  it,  and'put  to  the  Chickens ;  fliakeit  well 

over  the  Fire  'till  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  ther^ 

take  the  Yolks  of  two  Eggs  well  beatten,  a  lit-? 

tie  grated  Nutmeg  and  Jutce  of  Lemon  beat 

together  with  the  Eggs  ;*  mix  thefe  with  the 

Liquor  very  carefully,  by  little  and  little,  for 

fear  it  curdle ;  put  in  half  a  Pound  of  goodBut-. 

ter,  and  ibake  it  together  'till  that  be  melted. 


\  ^ 


Another  for  the  famo. . 


T 


AKE  three  Chickens,:  flay  them,  and 
cut  them  into  pieces,  put  them  into  a 
Stew-pan,  with  as  much  Gravy  and  Water 
^s  will  juft  coy^y  them  j    put  in  two  An^ 

9hovi?┬τ^ 


in  Cookery,  &{.  ij 

chovies,  fomc  whole  Pepper,  fome  Salt,  and 
a  Blade  of  Mace,  a  fmall  Onion,  with  a  few 
Cloves ;  fet  them  to  ftew,  and  when  they 
are  almofi:  enough,  take  them  from  the  Li- 
quor, and  fry  them  in  Vinegar,  but  a  very 
little ;  ftrain  the  Liquor,  and  take  as  muqh 
of  it  as  you  Ihall  want  for  Sauce,  and  add  to 
it  a  little  Parfley,  Thyme^  and  Sorrel,  boil'd 
green,  and  flired  fmaU,  half  a  Pint  of  thick 
Cream,  two  Yolks  of  Eggs  well  beaten,  fpme 
grated  Nutmeg ;  ihake  all  over  the  Fire  -till 
'tis  thick,  throw  in  half  a  Pound  pf  Butter, 
smd  iQbtake  it  'till  (hat  is  melted^ 


z' 


To  Stew,  a  Hare.. 

PULL  your  Hare  to  pieces,  and  bruife 
the  Bones,  and  put  it  into  a  Stew-pan, 
with  three  Pints  of  ftwng  Broth,  and  at  the 
fame  time  put  in  an  Onion,  and  a  Faggot  of 
Sweet-herbs ;  let  it  ftew.  leifurely  for  foyr 
Hours,  then  put  in  ^  Pint  of  Qaret ;  let  it 
ftew  two  or  three  Hours  longer,  VillYis  ten* 
der  j.take  out  what  Bones  you  can  find,  with 
the  Herbis  and  Onions,  if  not  diiTolv'd ;  piit 
in  an  Anchovy  or  two  with  the  Claret  : 
Stewing,  fp  long,  it  v,^iil  be  thick  enough ; 
you  need  only  ftiake  it  up  with  half  a  Pouiud 
pf  ^glitter,  when  ready  for  the  Table, 


B  4 


fo 


24        A  Colh^'fon  of  Receipts 

To  koaft  a  CalfVHead.     \- 

AFTER  the  Head  is  nicely  walhM  and 
pick'd,  take  out  the  Brains  and  Tongue  ; 
make  a  large  Quantity  x)f  Forc'd-meat,  with 
Vcal  and  Suet  well  feafonM,  fill  the  Hole 
of  the  Head;  skewer  it^  and  tie  it  together 
upon  the  Spit :  One  Hour  and  an  half  roafis 
it :  Beat  up  the  Brains  with  a  little  Sage  and 
Parfly  finely,  flired,  a  little  Salt,  and  the  Yolks 
of  two  or  three  Eggs ;  boil  and  blanch  the 
Tongue,  cut  it  in  large  Dice,  and  fry  that 
and  the  Brains,  as  alfo  fome  of  the  Forced- 
meat  in  Balls,  and  fome  Slices  of  Bacon. 
The  Sauce  is  ftrong  Broth,  with  Qyilers, 
Muflirooms,  Capers,  and  a  little  Wbite-winc 
thicJkcn'd, 

To  Force  a  Leg  of  Lamb. 

OLIT  the  Leg  of  Lamb  down  on  the 
^  Wrong-fide,  and  take  out  all  the  Meat, 
as  near  as  you  can,  without  cutting  or 
cracking  the  Qut-fide  Skinj  l?eat  it  very 
finall,  with  its  Weight  in  good  frcft  Suet  ; 
add  to  it  twelve  large  Oyftcrs,  two  Ancho- 
vies, both  neatly  waih'd,  and  thp  Anchovies 
nicely  bon'd  ;  feafbn  it  with  Pepper,  Salt, 
Mace,  and  Nutmeg,  a  little  Thyme  and 
Parfly  nicely  flired  j  beat  all  very  fine  toge-? 
thcr,  and  mix  it  up  with  the  Yolks  of  three 

Eggs ; 


in  Co^cry,  ^c,  ly 

Eggs ;  fill  the  Skin  again  with  the  Meat,  and 
lew  it  up  very  carefully.  The  Meat  that  is 
left  out  muft  be  fryM  for  Garnifli  to  the 
Loin  which  you  muft  Fricaffey  as  you  do 
Chickens,  and  lay  under  the  Leg  of  LamK 
You  muft  tie  the  Leg  on  to  the  Spit,  for  any 
Hole  will  ┬μpoil  the  Meat ;  but  'tis  eafy  to 
fatten  the  Back  to  the  Spit  with  Pack-thread. 
In  your  Fricaffey  for  this  Lamb,  leave  :  out 
the  Cream,  and  add  a  little  Oyfter-liquor, 
and  fry'd  Oyfters. 

-4 

iTbe  heft  nvay  to^ot  Beef,  nsohuh  is  as 

good  as  Ventfon. 

TAKE  a  Piece  of  lean  Buttock-Hecf,  rub 
it  over  with  Salt-petre ;  let  it  lie  one 
Night,  then  take  it  out  and  fait  it  very  well 
with  white  and  Bay-falt,  put  it  into  a  Pot 
juft  fit  for  it,  cover  it  with  Water,  and  let 
it  lie  four  Days ;  then  wipe  it  well  with  a 
Cloth,  and  rub  it  with  Pepper  finely  beaten; 
put  it  down  clofe  into  a  Pot  without  any 
Liquor,  cover  the  Pot  dole  with  Pafte,  and 
let  it  bake  with  large  Loaves  fix  Hours  at 
leaft  J  then  take  it  out,  and,  when  'tis  cold, 
pick  it  clean  from  the  Skins  and  Strings,  and 
beat  it  in  a  Stone-Mortar  very  fine ;  then 
icafon  it  with  Nutmeg,  Cloves,  and  Mace 
finely  beaten,  to  your  Tafte,  and  pour  in 
melted  Butter,  which  you  may  work  up 
with  it  like  ^  Paftp ;  Put  it  clofe  down  and 

even 


%6         A  ColkSfion  of  Receipts 

jcvcn  in  your  Pots,  and  coyer  it  with  clarify  M 
Butter* 

To  make  Lobfter^Loaves. 

PI CK  out  all  the  Meat  of  three  little  Lob* 
ftct-s,  flifed  it  a  little ;  take  a  piece  of 
Butter,  and  brown  it  with  Flour  in  a  Sauce- 
pan :  then  ilir  in  a  very  little  Onion  and 
Parfly  fhred  very  fine,  and  put  in  a  little  Pep- 
per, a  Spoonful  of  Anchovy  Liquor,  three 
or  four  Spoonfuls  of  good  Gravy,  three  Yolks 
of  Eggs  well  beat ;  flir  all  thefe  over  the 
Fire  in  the  brown  Butter,  then  put  in  the 
Lobftcr,  and  ftir  it  a  Iktle  together :  Take 
three  French  Rolls,  and  cut  a  round  Piece  x>ff 
the  top  of  each,  and  pick  out  the  Cruoib, 
but  do  not  break  the  Holes  througli  the  Sides 
of  the  Bread ;  fill  up  the  Roll  with  the  Mix- 
ture you  have  prepared ;  put  on  the  Piece  of 
Top  you  cut  olF,  clofe,  and  tie  them  round 
with  a  Piece  of  Tape :  Make  fbme  Dripping 
boiling  hot  in  your  Frying-pan  ;  and  wbea 
you  have  juft  dipt  the  Roll  iii  Milk,  throw 
(t  into  the  Pan-full  of  fcalding  Liquor  :-When 
they  are  crifp,  take  them  out,  and  take  off 
the  Tape :  Be  lure  to  put  in  three  times  as 
much  Parfly  as  Onion.  Thus  you  may  do 
Shrimp  01  Oyfier^j[uoaves% 


r┬τ 


ii 


in  Cookery,  &c.  27 

To  Roaft  a  Brcaft  of  Pork. 

I 

OU  T  of  your  Quarter  cut  off  only  a 
Knuckle,  leaving  as  much  Skin  on  the 
Brcaft  as  you  can ;  take  off  the  Neck^  and 
leave  a  very  large  Breaft  ;  bone  it,  and  rub 
it  vith  Salt  pretty  well  all  over ;  then  take 
Sage  and  a  little  Thyme  ftired  fmatl,  a  whole 
Nutmeg  and  a  little  Cloves  and  Mace  finely 
beaten;  ftrew  the  Spice  and  Herbs  very 
thick  all  over  the  Meat,  and  rub  it  in ;  thea 
roll  it  tight  up,  with  the  Flefli  inward,  ftitch 
it  faft  together,  and  roaft  it  length  wife  'till 
^^s  full  enough  done. 

To  Hafh  a  Calf  VHcad^ 

T>OIL  your  CalfVHead  'till  the  Meat  is 
N^  near  enough  for  eating  ;  take  it  up,  and 
cut  it  in  thin  Slices  ;  then  take,  half  a  Pint  of 
White-wine,  and  three  quarters  of  a  Pint  of 
good  Gravy>  or  ftrong  Broth  ;  put  to  this 
Liquor,  two  Anchovies,  half  a  Nutmeg,  and 
a  little  Mace,  a-fmall  Onion  ftuck  with 
Cloves ;  boil  this  up  in  the  Liquor  a  quart* 
tef  of  an  Hour,,  then  ftrain  it,  and  let  it 
boil  up  again ;  when  it  does  fo,  throw  In 
the  Meat,  with  z  little. Salt  to  your  Tafte, 
^nd  fome  Lemoh-peel  ihred  fine  j  let  it  ftew 
9  little,  and,  if  you  pleafe,  add  Sweet-breads : 
^aj??  For^M-mcat  Balls  of  .Vfi^l  5  mix  the 

Brains 


r 

a  8        A  Cdl/e^hn  of  Receipts^ 

Brains  with  the  Yolks  of  Eggs,  and  fry  them,' 
to  lay  fbr  Gamiflu  When  the  Head  is  ready 
to  be  fent  in,  fliake  in  a  Bit  of  Butter. 

^0   ^refs  Hog  s-Feet    apd  Ears  the 

hfi  Way. 

^TT  HEN  they  are  nicely  clcan?d,  put  them 
έΑλ^  into  a  Pot,  with  a  Bay-leaf,  and  a  large 
Onion,  and  as  much  Water  a^  will  cover 
them  J  feafon  it  with  Salt  and  a  little  Pepper  j 
bake  them  with  Houfhold  Bread ;  keep  them 
in  this  Pickle  ^till  you  want  them,  then  take 
them  out  and  cut  them  in  handfome  Pieces* 
fry  them,  and  take  for  Sauce  three  Spoon- 
fuls of  the  Pickle  ;  fhak'e  in  fbme  Flour,  4 
Piece  of  Butter,  and  a  Spqonfiil  of  Muftard  : 
Lay  the  Ears  in  the  middle,  the  Feet  round 
and  pour  the  Sauce  over. 

To  Collar  a  Bread   of  Veal,   to  eat 

Hot. 

15  ONE  your  Veal;  take  fome  Thyme, 
έΑλέΨι-^  SNveet-marjoram,  Pepper,  Salt,  grated 
Nutmeg,  and  beaten  Mace,  flired  Suet,  and 
'  Crumbs  of  Bread,  with  a  few  Oyfters  j  beat 
all  thefe  in  a  Mortar,  to  mix  it  together  ; 
ftrew  it  thick  over  the  Veal ;  then  roll  it 
up  into  a  Collar ;  then  few  it  tight  in  a 
Cloth,  and  boil  it  three  Hours.  Make  your 
Sauce  as  for  a.  white.  Fricaffey,  thicken'd 


\ 

9 


in  Cookery^   &c.  19 

with  Cream,  and  Yolks  of  Eggs,  boiling  the 
Bones  firft  for  good  Gravy ;  fry  the  Sweets- 
bread  in  Bits  neatly  Cut.  SaVe  fbmc  of  the 
Staffing,  for  ForcM-meat;  to  which  add 
Juice  of  Spinage,  for  Colour,  and  Yolks  of 
Eggs,  to  make  it  roll  tight,  to  fry  or  boil 
for  Garnifh  in  the  Sauce,  with  the  Sweet- 
bread. 

To  make  Stove- Veal. 

nr  A  K  E  a  FiUet  of  Veal  of  a-  Cow-CalO 
-*έΑλ  cut  away  an  Inch  of  the  middle  Bone 
on  each  Side,  that  the  Meat  may  lie  flat  in 
the  Stew-pan  j  cut  off  the  Udder,  and  flicc 
it  in  long  Pieces,  and  roll  it  in  Seafoning  of 
Pepper,  Salt,  Nutmeg,  and  Sweet-herbs  fine- 
ly ftired ;  make  Holes  through  the  Fillet, 
and  ftick  in  thefe  feafon'd  Pieces  of  fat  Ud- 
der as  thick  as  you  can,  'till  the  whole  is 
^  ftufPd  in,  then  lay  Butter  in  the  Pan,  and 
put  in  the  Meat  j  fet  it  on  a  gentle  Fire, 
turning  and  Ihaking  it  as  you  have  Occafion ; 
then  fcum  off  the  Fat,  and  put  in  one  Onion 
ftuck  with  Cloves,  a  Lemon  pared,  and  cut 
in  half,  and  fqueezed  in :  Continue  to  Ihake 
it.  If  your  Fire  be  as  flow  as  it  ought  to 
be,  it  will  take  five  Hours  to  make  it  ready  : 
One  Hour  before  it  is  fo,  put  in  a  large  Pint  of 
ftrong  Broth.  When  the  Meat  is  juft  enough 
fet  on  a  Pint  of  Oyfters,  and  a  Pint  of  Mufli- 
rooms,  with  a  little  of  the  Broth,  and   two 

Spoon-r 


^o        A  CoIIe┬μfion  of  tleceipts 

Spoonfuls  of  Capers.  Let  the  Meat  be  again 
clean  fcumM  from  the  Fat,  before  you  ufe 
the  Liquor;  thicken  this  with  Flour,  and 
pour  it  into  the  Difti  to  the  Meat.  'Tis  a 
grateful^  lavory  Dilh. 

To  make  a  Potatoe-PyCi 

nPAKE  two  Pound  of  Spanlfh  Vomoes^ 
^  boil  them  'till  tender ;  then  peel  them, 
and  flice  them  -the  long  way  ;  lay  them  in 
the  Difh  ;  and  tal^e  the  Marrow  of  four 
large  Bones,  pick  it  out  of  the  Bones  in  large! 
Pieces,  and  lay  it  upon  the  Potatoes  ;  put  id 
two  Ounces  of  prefer vM  Barberries,  as  much 
Citron  and  Orange-peel,  fix  Slices  of  Le-* 
toon  dippM  in  Sugar,  cut  oflf  the  Rind  ;  put 
in  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Sack  :  Cover  it  witM 
PufF-pafte  ;  and  when  the  Cruft  is  baked,  it 
is  enough :  Then  cut  off  the  Lid,  that  it 
may  cool  a  little ;  and  make  a  Caudle  of  half 
a  Pint  of  Sack,  half  a  Pound  of  Butter,  thef 
Yolks  of  four  Eggs,  and  a  quarter  of  an. 
Ounce  of  beaten  Cinnamon:  Take  care  it 
does  not  turn.  Make  your  Caudle  very 
fweet,  and  pour  it  into  the  Pye* 

To  Stems  Carp. 

C  C  A  L  E  and  wafti  your  Carps  clcart  before! 
^  you  open  them  ;  then  flit  them  carefully^ 
and  fave  the  Blood  in  Vinegaf  j  take  out  all 

the 


S 


in  Cookcty,  &cl  t\ 

the  Infidc  with  Caqtion,  for  fear  of  break-* 
jng  any  things  becaufe  they  muft  not  be 
wdh'd  on  the  Infidc;  put  into  their  Bel- 
lies fome  whole  Pepper,  5alt,  and  a  Blade 
of  Mace;  cover  them  in . the  Stew-pan,  6t 
Dilh,  with  Claret  and  half  as  touch  Water, 
Spice,  Sweet-h^rbs,  and  a  bit  of  Horfc-ra- 
difh ;  ftew  them  gently,  arid  turn  tbenx 
Vhen  they,  are  enough ;  lay  them  on  the 
pifti  to  drain;  and  boil  up  the  Sauce  they 
.were  ftew'd  in,  with  two  Anchovies  bon'd 
'  arid  wafh'd,  the  Vinegar  the  Blood  was  fav'd 
in,  and  a  Pound-  of  good  Butter  ;  thick  it 
with  a  little  Flour  before  you  put  in  your 
Butter.  - 

Good  Sauce  fir  ^BolTd  Rabbets,  in"^ 

fiead  of  Onions, 

150IL  the  I;.iYers,  and  ftired  them  very 
^  fmall,  as  alfo  two  Eggs  not  boiPd  toa 
hard,  ^  large  Spoonful  of  grated  white  Bread ; 
have  ready  fbme  ftrong  Broth  of  Beef  and 
Sweet-herbs;  to  a  little  of  that  add  two 
Spoonfuls  of  White- wine,  and  one  of  Vi- 
negar; a  little  Salt,  and  fome  Butter;  ftir 
all  in,  arid  take  care  the  Butter  do  not  oil : 
Ihred  your  Eggs  yer^  fmall. .  , 


έΑλ┬τ         έΑλ      έβο  ┬╗  έΨι 


^  frettf 


V. 


A 


3 1        A  ColleStion  of  Receipts 

A  pretty  Sauce  for  Woodcock,  or  any 

Wild-FowL 

TA  K  E  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Claret,  and 
as  much  Water,  fome  grated  Bread,  two 
or  three  Heads  of  Rocambole,  or  Shal- 
lot, a  little  whole  Pepper,  Mace,  and  flic*d 
Nutmeg  and  Salt  j  let  this  ftew  very  well 
over  the  Fire,  then  beat  it  up  with  Butter, 
and  put  it  under  the  Wild-fowl,  which  be- 
ing under-roafted,  will  afford  Gravy  to  mix 
with  this  Sauce. 

To  Fry  Oyfters,  for  Garnifh  for  Fi/b 

or  Hajh. 

WASH  them  ifl  their  own  Liquor,  and 
dry  them  very  well ;  then  have  fome 
Yolks  of  Eggs  beat  up,  with  Spice  and  Salt 
finely  beat,  and  Flour  to  make  it  thkk 
enough  to  hang  on  the  Oyfters :  Fry  them 
quick,  in  clarified  Beef-fuet, 

A  fweet  Pye,   which  may  he  made  of 
young  Lamb  or  Chickens. 

np  O  two  Chickens  you  may  take  eight 

-*-    Ounceis  of  Marrow,  or  Butter,  if  that 

cannot  be  had ;   but  a  Loin  of  Lamb  wants 

very  little  more  than  its  own  Fat :   Seafon 

your 


in  Cookery^  &c',  7  i 

έΑλ  a 

your  Lamb  or  Chickens  with  Salt,  Sugar^ 
beaten  Gloves  and  Mace  ;  lay  it  into  the 
Difli,  and  put  in  five  Yolks  of  hard  Eggs, 
with  fome  of  the  Forc'd-meat  Balls,  made  as 
follows :  Shred  a  Pound  of  lean  Veal,  with 
a  Pound  and  half  of  Beef-fuet,  a  Ycty  little 
Parfly,  Spinage,  and  Thyme,  Ihred  very 
iinall,  mix'd  up  with  grated  Bread,  the  Yolks 
of  two  Eggs,  and  ieaibn  it  with  Cloven, 
Mace,  Salt,  and  Sugar;  beat  all  fine,  and 
colour  it  with  a  little  Juice  of  Spinage ;  make 
it  into  large  Balls,  and  put  as  many  in  as  will 
lie  well  i  ihred  a  Lemon  Peel  fine,  and  drew 
in  )  put  in  alio  fotne  Sweet^meats,  and  a 
Coffee-cup  of  Water  with  the  Juice  of  a  large 
Lemon  j  cover  it  with  Puff-pafte,  and  when 
it  comes  out  of  the  Oven,  cut  off  the  Lid,  to 
let  the  Fiercenels  of  the  Heat  go  out,  before 
you  put  in  your  Caudle,  which  liiuft  be 
half  a  Pint  of  White- wine,  thicken'd  with 
the  Yolks  of  three  Eggs,  and  fweeten'd  as 
you  find  Occafion. 

To  Stew  Herrings. 

FIRST  broil  them  very  brown,  then  have 
ready  fome  White-wine^  made  hot  with 
an  Anchovy^  a  Blade  of  Mace,  and  a  Bit  of 
Onion,  with  a  little  whole  Pepper,  all  ftew'd 
in  the  Wine  ;  then  cut  off  the  Heads  of  the 
Filh,  and  bruifc  them  in  the  Wine  and  Spice, 
and  take  them  out  again,  before  you  put  in 

C    .  your 


14       AColkSiion  of  Receipts 

your  Herrings ;  let  them  ftcw  over  Coal^^ 
in  a  Di(h  that  they  may  lie  at  Length  in  ; 
let  them  ftew  on  both  Sides,  till  they  arc 
enough  at  the  Bone  j  take  them  out,  and 
Ihake  up  the  Sauce  with  Butter  and  Floun 
^Tis  a  v^ry  good  way  to  drefs  them. 

7b  make  Saufages. 

np  AKE  almoft  the  double  Weight  of  Fat 
έΑλέΨιέΑλ.  to  your  lean  Pork,  and  pick  both  clean 
from  Bones,  Skin,  and  Kernels  ;  Ihred  it 
Severally  very  fine ;  then  mix  and  Ihred  it  to- 
gether, and  to  four  Pounds  of  this  Meat,  you 
may  put  a  very  large  Nutmeg,  the  Weight 
of  the  Nutmeg  in  Cloves  and  Mace,  and  aU 
moft  the  Weight  of  all  the  Spice  in  Pepper  ; 
beat  all  fine,  and  let  your  Heap  of  Salt  be  έΑλ 
as  big  again  as  the  Spice  arid  Pepper  ;  ihred 
a  large  Handful  of  frefh  Sage,  and  a  little 
Thyme,  very  fine  ;  grate  two  Spoonfuls  of 
White  Bread,  and  take  two  Yolks  of  Eggs, 
mix  all  very  well  together,  and  fill  your 
Skins  :  If  you  love  Oifters,  half  a  Pint  flircd 
to  this  Quantity,  gives  it  a  richTafte;  thefc 
roll  and  fry  without  Skins,  and  keep  better 
in  a  Pot  J  add  the  Yolks  of  Eggs,  when  you 
ufe  them.  Norfolk  Links  are  only  fat  and 
lean  Pork,  more  grofly  cut ;  and  the  Sea- 
Ibning,  Peppcf,  Salt,  and  a  large  Quantity 
of  S^gc  ihred  fmall,  and  put^in  large  Skins. 

έΑλ  -  '  y 


έΑλ.┬╗." 


r*--^  I 


in  Cookeiy,  &c.  i  f 

To  mah  a  K(^-Meat  Pie. 

'Tn  AKE  two  Buttock-Pieces,  or  Rearing^ 
έΑλέΨι"  ,  Pieces  dFPork,  'tis  what  Lean  is  cut 
ojBf  the  Gammon  on  the  Infide  of  the  Flitch; 
cut  fome  of  the  Fat  off  the  End  of  the  Chine, 
and  beat  Fat  and  Lean  together  very  fmall ; 
ieafon  it  with  Pepper,  Salt,  Mace,  and  Nut^ 
meg  ;  tie  the  Meat,  when  beat  and  feafon'dj^ 
in  a  wet  clean  Cloth ;  lay  it,  into  the  Shape 
you  would  have  it,  ih  the  Cloth,  and  cut 
fome  long  Slips  of  the  Chine<-Fat,  to  mix  and 
lay  between  every  Layer  of  the  beaten  Meat ; 
when  'tis  thus  laid  round,  and  in  Order,  tiis 
it  up  hard,  and  lay  a  heavy  Weight,  to  prefs 
it  very  hard  and  clofe,  for  three  or  four 
Hours :  Make  your  Pie,  and  when  y^u  have 
laid  in  the  Meat,  lay  half  a  Pound  of  Butter 
over  the  Meat  :  juft  as  you  fet  it  into  the 
Oven,  pour  in  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Clarets 
When  you  draw  it,  if  you  find  it  dry,  pout 
in  melted  Butter. 

Scotch  Collops,  A  vety  good  Way^ 

έΑλT^  A  K  E  a  Fillet  of  Veal,  cut  away  the  oUt^A 
-*έΑλ  fide  Skin,  and  cut  it  out  ih  thin  Collops^ 
with  the  Grain,  hack  them  with  the  Back  of 
your  Knife,  lard  Ibme  of  them  with  Bacon  ^ 
and  feafon  all  of  them  with  Suit,  Nutmeg^ 
and  Thyme,  Parfly,  and  i  little  Savory  j 

C  a  fiired 


I 

^6       J  ColkSim  of  Receipts 

ihrcd  all  the  Herbs  very  fmall,  then  fry  them 
in  a  good  Quantity  of  clarify'd  Buttet,  till^ 
they  look  of  a  rine  Yellow  j  take  care  they 
are  not  burnt  bkck  ;  when  they  are  fo  done^ 
lay  them  before  the  Fire  to  drain  ;  pour  the 
Sutter  they  were  fry'd  in,  from  the  Gravy  ; 
aiu]  put  to  the  iSravy  three  Anchovies,  a  little 
ilrong  Beef-broth,  a  little  Oifter-liquor,  and 
Oiftefs,  with  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Claret ;  let 
your  Oifters  fiew  thus,  till  they  are  enough,, 
then  fliake  in  five  or  fix  Ounces  of  Butter  ; 
rub  the  Fan  firfi:  with  Shallot,  put  in  the  Yolks 
of  three  Eggs,  and  take  care  to  fiir  or  fliake  it 
conftantly,  for  fear  of  curdling  :  Jufl:  before 
you  pour  it  out^  iqueeze  in  the  Juice  of  a 
Lemon,  and  poiir  it  over  the  Collops  :  You 
muft  have  Forc'd-meat  Balls,  and  Muflirooms^ 
and  ibme  fry'd  Oifters,  with  flic'd  Lemon,^ 
for  Garnifli. 

έΑη  To  Stew  Oifters* 

TA  K  ┬μ  a  Quart  of  Oifters,  and  clear  them 
well'  from  Bits  of  Shells,  and  Drpfs  in 
their  t)wn  Liquor  ;  then  ftrain  that  Liquor, 
and  put  to  it  a  lai^c  Blade  of  Mace,  a  fmall 
^utmeg  flic'd,  andCia  little,  ^alt ;  let  your 
Oifters  boil  in  this  Liquor,  ^d  fcum  them 
^lean ;  when  they  are  ne^r  enough,  put  to 
^hem  fbm^  Farfly  flired  fine,  .and  a  little 
^ballot,  if  you  lo^e  it }  sdib:  flired  fine  the 

:.    ^  .     Yolks 


/ 


in  Cookicry,  ^c.  ^f 

Tolks  of  four  Eggs,  and  near  half  a  Poun^ 
of  Batter  :  Shajne  it  conftantly. 

To  make  Lobftcr-Pies. 

┬τ 

WHEN  your  Lobftcrs  arfe  boiM^  take 
;  them  clean  out  of  the  Shells^  flicfe  the 
Tails  and  Qaws  thin  ^  fedfon  them  with 
Pepper,  and  a  little  Mace  and  Nutmeg  beat 
fine )  take  the  Bodies  with  Ibme  Oifters  ihred^ 
tnix  it  up  with  a  little  Onion  fine  ihred^  a  lit- 
tle Farily  fine  fhted,  and  a  little  gfated  Bread, 
atid  feafon  it  as  the  reft  ;  then  take  thb 
Yolks  of  raw  Eggs,  to  roil  it  tip  in  Balls  j 
lay  all  into  the  Fie,  with  Butter  at  Bbttotn 
and  Top  of  the  Fiflh  j  when  ft  comes  buf  of 
the  Oven,  pour  in  a  Sauce  of  ftrong  Gravy, 
Oifter-liquor,  and  White- wine,  thickened 
with  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg :  'Tis  to  eat  hot. 

To  Boil  a  Turkey,  or  any  Fowly  with 

Oifter  Sauce. 

WASH  your  Oifters  very  clean  in  their 
own  Liquor,  which  Liquor  you  muft 
then  ftrain  out  into  a  clean  Sauce^pan  ;  put 
in  your  Oifters,  with  a  Bundle  of  fwcet 
Herbs,  an  Onion,  fomeMace^  whole  Pepper, 
and  a  Bit  of  Lemon  Peel :  Then  take  fifteen, 
if  large,  of  thefe  Oifters,  with  a  little  grated 
Bread,  twice  as  much  Beef-fuet,  fiired  fmall, 
the   Yolks  of  four  hard  Eggs,    two  An- 

C  3  choyieS| 


J  8         A  CoJJe{iiqn  of  Receipts 

chovUs,^  a  very  little  Onion  fine-lhr^^,  Salt^ 
Pepper,"^  Nutmeg,  Thyme,  and  Wintcr-favor  . 
ry  ;  Ihred  all  together  very  fine,  and  mix 
it  up  with  a  Yolk  of  raw  Egg ;  ftuflF  the 
Turkey,  '  or  Fowls  under  the  Skin  on  the 
.3s;<$l9  >  while  they  boil,  fet  your  Oifters, 
fyj  the  Sauce,  to  ftew  very  gently  over  the 
Fire ;  when  they  are  alnvoft  enougli,  take 
them  out,  and  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of 
White- wine,  and  half  a  Pint  of  ftrong  Gravy, 
with  an  Anchovy,  Herbs,  and  Spice,  firft 
boird  in,  and  ftrain'd  clean  out  of  the  Gravy ; 
when  aU  this  is  boil'd  together,  put  in  as 
much  Butter  jis  will  make  it  thick,  and  well 
tafted,  'twin  take  near  a  Found  (o  a  Quart  of 
Ciders ;  If  you  find  it  fo  thin  as  to  part,  mix 
a  little  Flour  in  a  Bit  of  the  Butter,  then  throw 
in  your  Oiflexs  again,  the  Juice  of  a  Lemon^ 
and  ibme  flired  Parily^  to  look  green  :  Pour 
it  over  the  Fowl  j  and  garnifti  with  Oiftcrai 
arid  I^emon.  .        έΑλ 

To  make  Weftphalia-Hams  5  abfohteh 
the  hefi  Way  to  do  them. 

CUT  your  Leg  of  fat  large  Pork,  as  like 
a  right  Ham  as  you  can  (black  Hogs 
make  the  bcft)  j  hang  it  up  two  Days,  then 
beat  it  very  well  on  the  flelhy  Side  with  a 
Rolling- pin  j  riib  in  an  Ounce  of  Saltrpetre 
(finely  beaten)  in  every  Place,  fo  let  it  lie  a 
Day  and  Night  j  then  take  an  Ounce  of 
*  3       "  '  beaten 


1 


[ 


r 


i┬╗  Cookery ^.^f.  39 

fieatcn  Salt-prunel,  with  two  large  Handfuls 
of  common  Salt,  and  a  Handftil  of  Bay*falt, 
a  Pound  of  coarfe  Sugar  ;  mix  all  thefe  to- 
gether, and  warm  them  thorough-hot  in  a 
Stew-pan,  but  be  furc  not  to  melt  it,  and 
while  'tis  hot,  rub  it  all  over  the  Ham  very 
well,  with  two  large  Handfuls  more  of  Salt ; 
thus  let  it  lie,  till  it  melts  to  Brine,  then  turn 
it  every  Day  twice,  and  bafte  it  with  that 
Brine,  for  three  Weeks  together  :  Dry  it  as 
Bacon.        ' 

Note^   That  your  Handfuls  of  common 
Salt  be  very  large* 

^To  fPor  Neats-Tongues,  /I  better  Way 

than  Drying  ibem. 

OICKLE  them  red,  a3  you  do  to  dry  ; 
T^  and  when  you  think  them  fait  enough 
to  dry,  boil  them  very  tender ;  take  them 
up,  and  peel  them,  and  rub  them  with  Pep- 
per, Cloves,  and  Mace,  all  over ;  thon  turn, 
them  round  into  a  Pot  to  bake  :  Lay  them 
in  fingle  Pots  on  their  Sid?  j  you  muft  cut 
off  the  Root  as  well  as  the  Skin^  and  cover 
thfem  with  Butter  :  Bake  th^m  with  brown 
Bread  j  when  they  come  out  of  the  Oven, 
pour  out  the  Gravy,  and  let  the  fame  Butter  \ 

ferve,  when  cleared  j  if  there  is  not  enough,  J 

add  more  clarify'd. 

C  4 


fl*       r*       I     .  ...J, 


4Q        A  ColhUion  ef  Receipts. 

┬╗ 

To  'Pot  Salmon,  as  yOt  Newcaftie. 

TA  K  ┬μ  a  Side  of  Salmon^  fcale  and  wip┬τ 
it  very  well  aod  clean  ;  but  don't  waih 
it ;  fait  k  very  ^yell,  and  1ft  k  lie  till  the  Salt 
be  melted,  and  drained  from  it ;  then  feafon 
it  with  beat  Maqe,  and  Cloves,  and  whole 
Pepper ;  lay  in  three  or  four  Bay-leaves^  and 
cover  it  aH  over  with  Butter :  When  'tis  well 
bak'd,  take  it  out,  and  let  it  drain  from  the 
Gravy  ;  then  put  it  into  your  Pot  to  kecp^ 
and,  when  cold,  cover  it  with  clarifyM  But- 
ter. Thus  you  may  do  Carp,  Tencfr,  Trout, 
or  any  firm  Filh. 

To  Trickle  Mackarcl,  ealfd  Cavcach. 

> 

^^tJT  your  Mackarel  into  rotmd  Pieces, 

^^  and  divide  one  into  five  or  fix  pieces:  To 

fix  large  Mickarel  you  may  take  one  Ounce: 

of  beaten  Pepper,  three  large  Nutmegs,  a 

little  Mace,  and  a  illandfu}  of  Salt ;  mix  your 

$ak  and  beaten  Spice  together,  and  make  two! 

or  three  Holes  in  each  Piece,  and  thruft  the 

Seafoning  into  thofetlolcs  witbt  your  Finger; 

tub  the  Pieces  all  over  with  the  Seafoning ; 

fry  them  brown  in  Oil,  and  let  them  ftand, 

tiU  they  are  cold ;  then  put  them  into  Vinegar, 

^d  cover  fhem  wkh  Oil.     They  ^ill  keep, 

well  covered,  a  great  while,   and  are  deli- 

ClOUS. 


in  Cookery,  &c.  41 

To  Ste^  a  Rirmp  of  Beef. 

FIRST  boil  it  mote  than  half  enough, 
then  take  it  off  the  Fire,  and  peel  tho 
Skin:  off  the  Top  j  have  ready  Ibme  Pepper^ 
beaten  Mdice,  g^ted  JSDiitmeg,  Salt,  ffared 
Thyme,  Savory,  Marjoram,  and  Parfly  5 
ftuff  it  in  large  Holea  tteo'  the  Fat  5  lay  the 
reft  of  the  Seaifoning  aH  over  the  Top  ^  and 
to  bind  it  on,  fpread  over  it  the  Yolk  of  one 
or  two  Eggs.  Be  fure  to  fave  the  Gravy 
that  runs  out  in  fluffing,  to  which  add  a  Pipt 
of  Claret,  and  Ibme  Vinegar  ;  put  it  in  a 
deep  Pan  that  will  not  be  too  big,  but  let  the 
Liquor  come  up  to  the  Top  :  Bake  it  two 
Hours  ;  add  when  you  put  it  in  a  clean 
Difli,  pour  the  Gravy  arid  Wine  it  Wm  bak'd 
in,  all  over. 


% 


Tq  make  a  good  Vote  d^Meat  for  any 

rpAKE  a  Pound  of  Veal,  and  full  its 
-*"  Weight  in  Beef-fuct,  a  Bit  of  Bacon  ; 
jftired  all  together,  beat  it  fa  a  Mortar  very 
.  fine  J  then  feafon  it  with  fwcet  Herbs,  Pep- 
per, Salt,  Cloves,  Mace,  and  Nutmegs ;  and 
when  you  roll  it  up  to  fry,  add  the  Yolks  of 
two'oir.thtee  Eggs,  to  bind  it.  You  may  add 
pifters*  or  Marrow,  gn  extraordinary  Occafi- 
pns. 


A  OJleSfton  of  Receipts 

i 

To  ^ot  Lamprey. 

SEASON  your  Fifli  with  Pepper,  Salt, 
and  Nutmeg,  a  large  Onion  ftuck  with 
Cloves,  three  Spoonfuls  of  Claret ;  cover  it 
with  Butter,  and  bake  it;  when  'tis  enough, 
take  it  out,  and  ftrain  it  from  the  Liquor  j 
pour  ofif  the  clear  Butter,  and  add  to  it  as 
much  more  as  will  cover  the  Fifli,  in  a  Pan 
fit  to  keep  it,  and  bring  to  Taftle.  Remem- 
ber always  to  clarify  all  the  Butter  you  pour 
over  potted  things. 


J  Wcftphalia-Ham  Pie. 


B 


OIL  your  Ham  as  tender  as  you  ufually 
do  to  cat  when  'tis  cold .;  bone  and  skin 
it  ;  fc^fon  it  with  Pepper,  Cloves,  and  Mace 
beaten  ;  put  it  into  very  good  Cruft,  or  into 
9  Difh  covered  over  with  Pafty-cruft.  Before 
you  lid  it,  lay  in  Butter  j  and  when  it  comes 
out  of  the  Oven,  put  in  clarify'd  Butten 
''Tis  good  eithelr  hot  or  cold. 

To  Dickie  Codlins,  like  Mangoe* 

IV/J  AKE  a  Brine  of  Salt  and  Water,  ftrong 
^^^  enough  to  bear  an  Egig,  into  which  put 
half  an  hundred  of  the  faireft  and  largeft 
Codlins  you  can  get  j  they  muft  b?  TuU 
grown,  but  not  full  ripe ;  let  them  lie  in 

.  this 


hi  Cookery,  ^c.  4} 

this  Brine  nine  or  ten  Days,  fhifting  the 
Pickle  every  other  Day,  then  dry  them,  and 
very  carefully  fcoop  out  the  Core :  Take  out 
the  Stalk  ib  whole,  as  that  it  may  fit  in  again ; 
and  you  may  leave  the  Eye  in,  if  you  don't 
put  your  Scoop  quite  thro';  fill  it,  in  the 
room  of  the  Core,  with  Ginger  flic'd  thin^ 
and  cut  fliort,  a  Clove  of  Garlick,  and  whole 
Muf):ard*ieed,  as  much  as  it  will  hold  :  Put 
in  the  Piece,  and  tie  it  up  tight.  Make  your 
Pickle  of  as  much  White-wine  Vinegar  as 
will  cover  them^ .  with  flic'd  Ginger,  Cloves 
of  Garlick,  and  whole  Muftard-feed  :  Pour 
this  Pickle*  boiling-hot  upon  them  every 
other  Day,  for  a  Fortnight  or  three  Weeks. 
Stone  Jars  are  beft  for  all  Sorts  of  Pickles. 

And  this  is  as  good  a  way  as  any  for  a  mid-* 
ling  large  Cucumber  ;  only  don't  cut  them  to 
put  the  Garlick  and  Muftard-feed  in ;  for  they 
keep  miich  longer,  and  eat  much  crifper,  if 
you  let  them  be  whole.  But  neither  CV/- 
έΓυUinbers^  Peaches^  nor  Melons^  are  comparable 
to  Codllnsy  for  imitating  the  right  Mangoe. 

To  Pickle  Wallnurs. 

'T^AKE  a  hundred  of  the  large  French 
^  Wallnuts,  at  the  Beginning  of  y///y,  be- 
fore they  have  a  hard  Shell  ^  juft  fcald  them, 
that  the  firft  Skin  may  rub  off  ^  then  throw 
them  into  Water  and  Salt  for  ninp  or  ten 

Days, 


\ 


44       -^  Colk┬μii(m  of  Rece/pts 

Days,  ihifcing  them  every  other  Day,  and 
keep  them  clofe  coyer'd  from  the  Air  j  then 
dry  them  ;  and  make  your  Fickle  of  two 
Quarts  of  White-wine  Vinegar,  Long  Pep- 
per, Black  Pepper,  and  Ginger,  of  each  one 
Ounce;  Cloves,  Mace,  and  Nutmegs,  of 
each  half  an  Ounce ;  beat  the  Spice,  and 
with  it  a  large  Spoonful  of  Muftard-feed  ; 
ftrew  this  between  every  Layer  of  Wallnuts, 
and  pour  your  Liquor  boiling-hot  upon  them 
three  or  four  times,  or  oftener,  if  you  fee 
Occafion  :  Be  fure  to  keep  them  clofe  ftoppM. 
A  Spoonful  of  this  Pickle  is  good  in  Fiih,  or 
any  favoury  Sauce.  Three  or  four  Cloves 
of  Garlick  do  well,  if  you  do  not  diflike  the 
Tafte. 

To  Pickle  Munirooms. 

GATHER  the  fmalleft  Buttons,  cut  off 
the  Bottom  of  the  Stalk,  and  throw 
them  into  Water  and  Salt ;  then  rub  them 
with  a  coarfe  Qoth  or  Flannel  very  clean, 
and  throw  them  into  another  Pan  of .  clpan 
Water  :  Boil  them  in  Milk  and  Water ;  take 
them  out  upon  a  clean  Cloth  :  When  they 
are  dry,  put  them  into  Glaffcs,  with  white 
Pepper-corns,  and  a  good  Quantity  of  Mace  j 
make  your  Pickle  of  half  White-wine,  and 
half  good  fliarp  White- wine  Vinegar  ;  many 
put  it  to  the  Mufhrooms  unboil'd  :  If  you 
boil  it,  you  mull  let  it  Hand  to  be  cold,  be- 

fore 


f┬╗  Cookery,  &c.  45: 

fore  you  pour  it  to  the  Mulhrooms.  Pout 
good  Oil  on  the  Top  of  the  Pickle  :  it  keeps 
them  beft  \  and  put  them  in  as  fmall  Glafles 
as  you  can,  .becaufe  they  fbon  decay,  when 
they  haye  taken  Ain 

To  ^ichJe  Neats-Tongucs,  wr^  good. 

T  AY  your  Tongues  twelve  Days  in  com- 
^  mon  Salt,  and  Salt-petre,  then  boil  them 
very  tender,  and  blanch  them  ;  cut  off^he 
Root,  and  lay  them  into  a  Pot,  and  pour 
oyer  them  a  Pickle  made  of  good  White*wine 
Vinegar,  which  you  muft  boil  up  with  Pep^ 
per,  Cloves,  Mace,  and  a  little  Ginger  ^  when 
'tis  ready  to  take  off  the  Fire,  throw  in  a 
Piece  of  Lemon  Peel,  and  three  or  four  Bay- 
leaves  ;  put  it  not  to  the  Tongues  tiU  cool  ; 
tie  them  clofe  from  the  Air.  A  little  of  the 
Pickle,  with  good  Oil,  is  their  Sauce. 

To  fickle  Pidgcons* 

BONE  them  neatly,  and  fealbn  them 
with  Salt,  Pepper,  Cloves,  and  Mace  ; 
few  them  up  at  the  Back,  and  tie  the  Neck 
and  Rump  j  boil  them  in  two  Quarts  of  Wa- 
ter, a  Pint  of  White-wine,  and  as  much 
White-wine  Vinegar  ;  put  into  it  a  fmall 
Faggot  of  fweet  Herbs,  and  a  Bit  of  Lemon 
Peel.  When  the  Pidgcons  are  enough,  take 
ihem  off  the  Fire  :  When  they  are  out,┬╗  boil 

and 


4^       A  Colkfiion  of  Receipts 

and  fcum  the  Pickle  very  cle^n  ;  pour  it  Hot 
to  the  Pidgcons,  till  'tis  cold. 

To  fickle  Smelts. 

GUT,  and  walh  them  clean,  then  lay 
them  in  Rows,  and  put  Pepper,  Nut- 
meg, Cloves,  Mace,  and  Salt,  between  every 
Layer  of  Filh,  and  four  or  five  Bay-leaves, 
powder'd  Cochineal,  and  Petre-falt,  beat 
and  mix'd  with  the  Spice  :  Boil  (as  much  as 
will  cover  them)  good  Red-wine  Vinegar, 
and  put  to  them  when  cold.     They  exceed 

To  fickle  Oiftcrs. 

TA  K  E  a  Peck  of  very  large  Oifters  $ 
when  carefully  open'd  without  cutting, 
wafli  them  three  or  four  times  in  their  own 
Liquor ;  ftrain  the  Liquor,  and  put  that  into 
a  Skillet :  When  it  boils,  put  in  your  Oifters, 
with  half  an  Ounce  of  White  Pepper,  and 
five  or  fix  Blades  of  Mace  :  Let  them  boij, 
till  they  begin  to  ftirivel  up  j  then  take 
them  out  of  the  Liquor,  and  cover  them 
clofe,  while  the  Spice  and  Liquor  boil  a 
quarter  of  an  Hour  longer  j  then  pour  it  on 
the  Oifters  ;  and  always  keep  them  as  much 
from  the  Air  as  you  can,  to  keep  their  Co- 
lour. 


jfii 


in  Cookery,  ^r.  47; 

^┬╗  Apple-Pudding  to  5tfjb,  very  good. 

np  A KE  twelve  fair  large  Pippins,  coddle 
έΨι*έΑλ  them  over  the  Fire  very  flowly,  that 
they  do  not  crack ;  when  they  are  ┬μbft,  peel 
and  core  them,  and  piilp  them  through  a 
Cullender  :  Add  to  this  three  Spoonfuls  of 
Orange-flower  Water,  ten  Eggs  well  beat 
and  ftrain'd,  half  a  Pound  of  very  good 
┬μutter  melted  ;  make  it  very  fweet,  the 
Apples  require  it :  Add  candy'd  Orange, 
Lemon,  or  Citron  Peel :  Put  a  Sheet  of 
Puff-pafte  into  a  Difh,  and  pour  in  your 
Pudding  ;  bake  it  with  Care  :  'Tis  done  in 
half  an  Hour. 

7*be  hefl  Orange-Pudding    that  ever 

nsjas  t^td. 

O  A  R  E  the  yellow  Rind  of  two  fair  Sevilk 
*  Oranges,  fo  very  thin,  that  no  Part  of 
the  White  comes  with  it ;  flired  and  beat  it 
extremely  fmall  in  a  large  Stone  Mortar  ; 
add  to  it,  when  very  fine,  half  ^  Pound  of 
Butter,  half  a  Pound  of  Sugar,  and  the  Yolks 
of  fixteen  Eggs ;  beat  all  together  in  the  Mor- 
tar, till  'tis  all  of  a  Colour ;  then  pour  it  into 
your  Difti  in  which  you  have  laid  a  Sheet  of 
Puff-pafte.  I  think  grating  the  Peel  favcs 
Trauble,  and  docs  it  finer  and  thinner,  than 

you 


4?        A  Colle^ion  cf  Receipts 

>you  can  ftircd,  or  beat  it :  But  you  mufl:  beat 
op  the  Butter  and  Sugar  with  it,  and  the  ┬μggs 
with  all,  to  mix  them  well. 

A  Rice-Pudding. 

GRIND,  or  beat  half  a  Pound  of  Rice  to 
Flour ;  mix  it,  by  Degrees,  with  three 
Pints  of  Milk,  an^  thicken  it  oyer  the  Fire 
with  Care,  for  fear  of  burning,  till  ^tis  like 
a  Hafty-pudding  ;  when  ^tis  ┬μ)  thick,  pour 
it  out,  and  let  it  ftand  to  cool :  Put  to  it  nine 
Eggs,  (but  half  the  Whites)  three  or  four 
Spoonfuls  of  Orange-flower  Water :  Melt  al- 
moft  a  Found  of  good  Butter,  and  fweeten  it 
to  your  Tafte.  Add  Sweet-meats,  if  yoa 
pleafe. 

White  Hogs-Puddings. 

TA  K  E  a  Quart  of  Cream ,  and  fourteen 
Eggs,  (only  half  theWhites)  beat  them 
but  a  little  ;  and  when  the  Cream  boils,  put 
in  the  Eggs  ;  keep  them  ftirring  on  a  gentle 
Fire,  till  ^tis  all  a  thick  Curd  :  After  'tis  al┬τ┬╗ 
moft  cold,  put  to  it  a  Pound  of  grated  white 
Bread,  two  Pounds  of  Suet  fhred  very  fine, 
two  Nutmegs  grated,  fomc  Citron  cut  fmal]^ 
half  a  Pound  of  Almonds  beat  fmall,  with 
Orange-flower  Water,  Salt,  and  Sugar  to 
your  Taflfe  :    To  this  you  may  put  three 

quarters 


^^im 


>┬τ 


in  lCocktt)%  &c.  4^ 

qu^Hers  bf  a  Pint  of  Creamy  Ivhcn  you  ^  to 
filling. 

r 

A  Neats-Foot  Pudding; 

TA  K  ┬μ  to  a  Found  of  Neats-foot  finely 
Ihred,  three  quarters  of  a  Pound  of  Suet 
ihred  as  imall,  a  whole  Nutmeg  grated^  can- 
dyM  Orange  minc'd,  fbme  Salt,  and  fbmc 
Currants,  a  little  grated  Bread,  and  feven 
Eggs  (leave  oi|t  half  the  Whites)  ;  flour  the 
Bag,  aad  let  it  boil  two  Hours  and  a  half  at 
leaft.  The  Sauce  is  Sack^  Sugar  and  Butter 
melted. 

Cuftafds,  ^ery  good. 

BOIL  a  Quart  of  Cream,  then  fweeteh  it 
with,  fine  powder'd  Sugar.}  beat  eight 
Yolks  of  Eggs,  with  two  Spoonfuls  of  Orange^ 
fiower  Water;  ftir  this  in  the  Cream,  and 
firain  ,  all  thro'  a  Sieve  :  Fill  your  Cups  of 
Cruf^  and  bake  them  with  Care> 

Orange  Checfc-CJikes, .  mery  good. 

T>LANCH  hatf  a  Pound  of  found  Sweet 
έΑλ*-'  Almonds,  beat  them  Very  fine,  with  two 
Spoonfuls  of  Orange-flower  Water,  half  a 
Pound  of  Sug^ar  beat  and  lifted,  three  quarters 
of  a  Pound  of  melted  Butter  :  Put  to  the 
rcft|  when  almoft  cold,  eight  Eggs,  leave'* 

έβο  D  ing 


JO       A  ColkSiion  of  Receipts 

ing  out  half  the  Whites  ;  beat  and  flrain 
them  :  Boil  the  Peel  of  a  Seville  Orange,  till 
the  Bitternpfs  is  out,  beat  it  fine,  and  mix  it 
with  the  reft  ;  put  it  info  very  light  Cruft  : 
^Tis  an  incomparable  Cheefe-cake  without  the 
Orange; 

jinotber  Chcefc-cake,    without  Curdy 

very  good. 

npAKE  a  Quart  of  Qream,  and  feven 
Eggs,  Yolks  and  Whites  ;  beat  three 
of  the  Eg^s,  and  put  as  much  Ric^-flour  to 
them,  as  will  make  them  thick  as  a  Pafte  ; 
then  put  in  the  other  four  Eggs,  being  a  little 
beaten,  and  ilir  all  well  together  ;  fet  on 
your  Cream  to  boil,  and  put  in  your  Eggs 
and  Rice,  flirring  it  all  the  time,  till  'tis  a 
pretty  thick  Curd :  When 'tis  cold,  feafbnonc 
Part  with  a  Spoonful  or  two  of  Sack,  Nut- 
meg, Sugar,  and  Currants  ;  and  the  other 
with  Orange- flower  Water,  Ambergreefe, 
and  Sugar  :  Put  them  in  a  very  good  Cruft : 
A  little  Time  bakes  them.* 

A  good  Cheefe-cake,    with    Curd. 

TO  a  Pound  and  half  of  Cheefe-curd,  put 
ten  Ounces  of  Butter  ;  beat  both  in  a 
Mortar,  till  all  looks  like  Butter  ;  then  add 
a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Almonds,  beat  with 
Orangc-j3[owcr  Water  j   a  Pound  of  Sugar, 

eight 


tight  Eggs,  half  the  Whites,  a  fittlc  beateii 
Mace,"*  and  a  little  Cream,  beat  all  together : 
A  quarter  of  an  Hour  bakes  them  in  Puffi- 
cruft)  and  in  a  quick  Oyeti* 

SThin  Crcain  Pan-cakcs,  tatt'd  a  Quir<; 

of  Papier. 

T^AKE  to  4  Pint  of  Cream,  eight  Eggs^ 
^  leaving  out  two  Whites,  three  Spoon- 
fuls of  fine  F^lbur,  three  Spoonfuls  of  Sack; 
iand  one  Spoonful  of  Orange- flowelr  Water, 
a  little  Sugar,  a  grated  Nutmeg,  and  a  4uar┬τ 
ter  of  a  Pound  of  Butter,  melted  in  the  Cr^m  ; 
mingle  all  well  together,  mixing  tht  Flour 
with  a  little  Cream  at  nrft,  that  it  may  be 
fmooth  :  Butter  your  Pan  for  the  firft  Pan- 
cake, and  let  them  run  as  thin  as  you  can 
pollibly,  to  be  whole ;  when  one  Side  is  co-^ 
lour'd,  'tis  enough ;  take  them  carefully 
out  of  the  Pan,  and  firew  fome  fine-fifted  Su- 
gar between  each ;  lay  them  as  even  on  each 
other  as  you  can  :  This  Quantity  will  make 
twenty.  ^ 


\- 


Jn  Almond-Pudding. 


B 


EAT  half  a  Pound  of  good  fwee(  Al- 
monds, with  Orange-flower  Water,  gra- 
ted Biskets,  three  or  four,  as  they  are  for 
Size,  hllf  a  Pound  of  Buttj^r,  and  four  large 
Spoonfuls  of  Sack,  eight  Eggs,  leayiog  out 

Da  h0 


51        A  CoIkHioH  of  Receipts 

half  the  Whites,  and  a  Quart  of  Cream,  wiih 
Sugar  to  your  Tafte  ;  put  a  PufF-pafttf  at  the 
Bottom  of  the  Difh  ;  and  garnifh  the  Edge 
with  Fade ;  ┬μo  poui:  it  in,  and  bake  it :  Thofe 
that  love  not  Orange-flower  Water,  may  put 
a  grated  Nutmeg  inftead  of  ^it,  and  beat  the 
Almonds  with  fair  Water,  for  fear  of  oiHng. 

Orange-Pudding* 

TAKE  three  fair  Oranges,  cut  them,  and 
fqueeze  off  the  Juice  into  a  clean  Pah  ; 
boil  the  Peels  in  two  or  three  Waters,  till 
Che  Bitternefc  is  off  j  then  pick  out  the  Pulp 
aild  Strings,  and  beat  the  Peel  very  fine  iii 
ydur  Mortal-,  ^ith  iOrange-flower  Water, 
then  mix  it  up  with  the  ftrain'd  Juice  ;  add 
to  it  nine  Eggs,  leaving  out  four  Whites, 
half  a  Pound  of  Butter,  and  Sugar  to  your 
Tafte  J  put  a  Puff-pafte  at  the  Bottom  of  the 
Dilh,  and  garnifh  the  Edge  of  the  Difti  with 
Pafte  :  Some  People  only  grate  in  the  Peels 
raw,  and  leave  out  the  Juice  j  but  I  think 
Ihe  above- written  way  is  the  moft  grateful 
and  pleafant.  Nofe^  You  muft  beat  all  in 
the  Mortar,  a  full  Hour  at  leaft,  till  the  In- 
gredients look  all  alike* 

A  Cuftard  Sack-Poflet.  έΑλ  ^ 

npAKE  a  Quart  of, Cream,  boil  it,  and 
.έΑλ*έΑλ  leafon  it  well  with  Sugar ;  then  take 
ten  Eggs,    with   two  Whiles,    beaten  very 

welL 


#┬╗  Cookery,  &c.  55 

well,^  (train  them  to  half  a  Pint  of  Sack,  ftir 
the  ┬μggs  and  Sack  with  Care  oyer  the  Fire, 
till  'tis  very  hot ;  then  pour  in  the  Cream, 
holding  it  very  high,  and  flir  all  very  well 
together  ;  cover  it  clofe,  and  fct  it  over  a 
Kettle  of  Water,  till  'tis  come  as  thick  and 
fmopth  as  a  Cuftard  :  'Tis  by  much  the  bcft 
Sc^t  of  Poflet  that  is  made. 

Cheefe-Curd  Pudding. 

TAKE  the  Curd  of  a  Gallon  of  new 
Milk,  drain'd  from  the  Whey,  beat  it 
very  well  in  a  Mortar,  with  half  a  Pound  of 
Butter  ;  then  take  (Tx  Eggs,  but  three  of  the 
Whites,  beat  them  very  well,  and  ftrain  them 
to  the  Curd  ;  two  grated  Naples  Biskets,  or 
a  Half-penny  Loaf,  if  they  cannot  be  had, 
with  half  a  Pint  of  Flour  ;  mix  aU  thefe  to- 
gether, and  fweeten  it  to  your  Palate  :  But- 
ter  your  Patty-pans  very  well,  fill,  and  bake 
them  ;  let  not  the  Oven  be  too  hot ;  turn 
them  out,  and  pour  over  them  Sack,  Sugar, 
and  Butter  melted  very  thick  ;  cut  Slips  of 
candy'd  Orange  Peel,  or  Citron,  to  ftick  up 
in  them  ;  and  flice  blanch'd  Almonds  lor 
thofe  that  have  not  Sweet-meats. 


D  3  Avery 


έΨι^4i       A  CoUe^kp  (f  Receipt^ 

ji  very  goo4  Tanfy* 

TA  K  ┬μ  a  Pint  of  Milk,  and  a  F'mt  of 
Cream,  about  a  Pint  of  Juice  of  Spi┬τ 
page,  which  muft  be  well  dryM  after  wafh-- 
^g,  before  you  ftamp  it ;  ftrain  it,  and  pour 
it  ip  ;  beat  fifteen  Eggs,  with  a  little  Salt, 
leave  out  eight  Whites,  firain  them  into  the 
other  things,  put  in  hear  a  Pint  of  grated 
Bread  or  Bisket ;  grate  in  a  whole  large  Nut┬τ^ 
meg,  and  as  much  Sugar  as  will  make  it  very 
fweet  i  thicken  h  oyer  the  Fire  as  thick  as  i 
Hafty-pudding  j  put  it  into  a  butter'd  Difl)^ 
and  a  cool  Oven  :  Half  am  Hour  bakes  iu 

To  make  Hogs-Puddings. 

np  AKE  the  Hog's  Tongue,  and  Ibme  of 
-*έΨι  the  Lights,  with  a  Piece  of  Liver  ; 
when  all  is  boU'd  tender,  grate  the  Liver, 
and  chop  the  Tongue  and  Lights  very  fmall ; 
put  this  to  a  Gallon  of  grated  Bread,  three 
Pounds  of  Currants^  Mace,  Cinnamon,  Nut- 
meg, Salt,  and  Sugar  ;  nine  Eggs,  leave 
but  four  Whites^  three  Pounds  of  Suet  finely 
ihred  :  Wet  it  with  the  Top  of  the  Liquor 
you  boird  your  Meat  in  ;  it  muft  not  be  too 

limber  :  When  'tis  ready,  fill  your  Skins. 

έΑλ  'έΨιέΑλέΑλ*'  .έΨι  .*      έΑλέΑλ        * 

Liver- 


T   f 


in  Cookery,  ^c,  j;  e 

Liver-Puddings,  very  good. 

np  AKE  the  Crumb  of  a  Two-penny  white 
A  Loaf  grated,  a  Pound  of  Marrow,  or 
frefh  Beef-iuet,  fo  finely  flired  as  to  go  thro' 
a  Cullender ;  take  a  Pound  of  Hogs  Liyer 
boird,  grate  and  (ift  that  very  fine ;  boil  a 
Quart  of  Cream  with  a  Blade  of  Mace,  and 
fweeten  it ;  grate  a  Nutmeg,  and  put  it  to 
the  reft  j  beat  up  fix  Eggs  with  the  Whites, 
a  little  Salt,  and  a  Spoonful  of  Orange-flower 
Water ;  mix  all  together,  and  fill  your  Skins : 
If  you  like  Currants,  you  muft  plump  them 
befere  they  go  in. 

^Sagoc-Pudding* 

TAKE  half  a  Pound  of  Sagpe,  and  wafh 
it  well  in  three  or  four  hot  Waters,  then 
put  to  it  a  Quart  of  new  Milk,  and  let  it  boil 
leather,  till  thick  as  a  Hafty-pudding ;  ftir 
it  carefully,  for  'tis  apt  to  burn  ;  put  in  a 
Stick  of  Cinnamon,  when  you  fet  it  on  the 
Fire ;  when  'tis  boil'd,  take  it  out :  Before 
you  pour  it  out,  ftir  in  near  half  a  Pound  of 
Butter,  beat  nine  Eggs,  with  four  Spoonfuls 
of  Sack,  leave  out  four  Whites,  flir  all  to- 
gedier,  fweeten  it  to  your  Tafte,  and  put  in 
a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  plump'd  Currants  ; 

D  4  lay 


'  I  ' 


f6       ACdU^m  <f  Rficeipts 

lay  a  Sheet  of  Fuff-pafte  under,  and  to  gar┬τ 
niih  the  Brim, 

^  $tew  Coldcn-Pippins,  a  very  good 

Way. 

PARE  them,  and  nicely  fcoop  out  the 
Core,  with  a  very  fmall  Scoop  :  throw 
them  into  W^ter,  to  prcftrvc  their  Colour  ; 
to  a  Pound  of  Pippins  thtis  prepared,  take 
half  a  Pound  of  dpubl^-refin'd  Sugar,  and 
one  Pint  of  Water ;  boil  and  fcum  the  Syriip, 
before  you  put  in  the  Pippini ;  when  the 
i^ipping  are  in,  let  them  boil  apace,  to  make 
them  clear,  and  when  they  are  fo,  put  in  a 
Bit  of  Lemon  Ped,  and  the  Juice  of  Lemon 
to  your  Tafte. 

Harts-Horn,  or  CalPs-Fopt  Jelly,  the 

heft  Way. 

np  AKE  to  half  a  Pound  of  good  Harts- 
έΑλέΨι-  horn,  three  Quarts  of  fair  Water,  let  it 
boil  very  flowly,  till  above  one  Quart  be 
confum'd  j  if  you  cannot  get  Harts-horn, 
one  Set  of  Calf 's-fcet  will  make  more  itt 
Quantity,  and  tafte  almoft  as  well ;  the  Look, 
with  Care,  yriU  be  the  fame  j  ftrain  ihis  Li* 
quor,  and  let  it  ftand  to  cool  ^  the  fbroogec 
you  make  your  Jelly,  the  more  Ingrediehts 
you  may  ufe  J  to  make  it  palatable,  when 
it  js  f?ttled,  as  it  will  be  the  next  Day,  ;ake 

off 


#'έΨι 


Iff  eookcry,  &c.  '57 

off  what  is  clear  pf  the  Hartshorn,  and  of 
the  Calf 's. foot  Jelly  j  ypu  muft.takc  off  the 
Fat  from  the^6j),  as  well  as  leave  the  Droft 
at  the  Bottom  ;  to  thefe  two  Quarts  of  ftrong 
Jelly,  ypu  may  put  a  Pint  of  Rhenifh,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  Pint  oY  Canary ;  beat  up  the 
Whites  of  five  Eggs  to  a  Froth  ;  ftir  all  to- 
gether with  Sugar,  to  make  it  very  fweet ; 
ijiix  it  well,  an(l  fej  it  pn  the  Fire,  and  ftir  it 
'  till  it  melts  and  curdles  y  then  put  in  the  Juice 
of  five  large  Lemons,  and  a  Bit  of  the  Peel ; 
let  this  boil  up,  then  pour  it  thro'  your  Jel- 
iy-baig,  and  pals  the  firft  Qu.  rt  or  two^  over 
and  over  again,  till  'tis  perfcdly  fine. 

<fo  make  Almondnet,  or  White  Jelly. 

BLANCH   half  ┬╗  Pound  of  Almonds, 
and  beat  them  very  fine,  with  ^  little 
Orange-flower  Water,  juft  enough  to  keep 
them  from  oiling  ;  when  they  are  pounded 
as  fmaU  as  'tis  poflSble  to  do  them,  mix  them 
tip  with  fome  of  your  Jelly,  that  is  not  fo 
much  weaken 'd  with  Wine  and  Lemon ;  this 
will   colour  a  Pint  and  half  of  the  Jelly  ; 
pafs   this  through  a   very   fine   Hair-Sieve 
very  ofi^en,  and  ftir  it  till  it  grows  thick, 
that  the  Colour  of  the  Almond   may   not 
fettle  to  the  Bottom  j    pour  it  into  pretty 
Ihap^d  Glaffes,  that  it  may  look  handfome, 
when  turned  out  upon  CMna  Plates.     Th'rs 

Jelly 


'58        A  CoJkSiion  of  Receipts 

Jelly  miift  be  made  very  good  tafted,  tho* 
you  may  abate  a  little  of  the  Wine,  and  Juice 
of  Lemon,  bccaufe  the  Almonds  fupply  that 
Want ;  and  then  being  ferv'd  out  of  the 
Glafles,  it  wants  Strength. 

Lemon-Cream,  the  hefi  Way. 

npAKE  three  fmooth  fair  Lemons,  pare 
-*-  them,  and  fqueeze  out  the  Juice  ;  cut 
the  Feel  in  imall  Pieces,  and  put  it  to  the 
Juice  J  for  two  or  three  Hours,  cover  it  clofe  ; 
and  when  it  taftes  of  the  Peel,  add  to  it  the 
Whites  of  four  Eggs,  and  the  Yolks  of  two ; 
beat  this  well  with  two  Spoonfuls  of  Orange- 
flower  Water  ;  then  put  all  thefe  to  a  Pint  of 
fair  Water,  ftrain  it,  and  iwecten  it  with 
double-refinM  Sugar  ;  fet  it  over  a  gentle 
Fire,  and  ftir  it  carefully,  till  'tis  as  thick  as 
Cream  :  Put  it  into  your  Jelly-Glaffes. 

To  w^^tf  Black-Caps,  the  hej 

T^  AKE  a  dozen  and  half  of  very  large 
έΑλ*  French  Pippins,  or  Golden-Reiiicttes  ; 
cut  them  in  hal^  and  lay  them  with  the  flat 
Side  down  to  the  Mazarine,  which  muft  be 
large;  lay  them  fingle,  as  clofc  by  each  other 
as  they  can  lie  ;  Iqueeze  a  large  Lemon  into 
two  Spoonfuls  of  Orange-flower  Water,  and 
pour  over  them ;  flired  Lemon  Peel  very  fine, 
and  fliakc  between ;  and  grate  double- refiii'd 

Sugar 


in  Cookery,  ^cl  j^^ 

Sugar    all   oyer    (hem ;    puc  ^hem   into   a 
quick  Oren,  and  they  are  done  in  half  an 
I        iHour. 

jf  '  Almond-Cream. 

TAKE  hdf  a  Pound  of  good  Almonds, 
blanch  and  beat  them  very  fine,  with 
Orange-flower  Water ;  take  a  Quart  of  Cream 
boird,  cool'd,  and  fweeten'd  ;  put  the  Al- 
monds into  it,  and  when  they  are  mix'd, 
ftrain  it  thro*  a  Canvas,  then  ftir  it  over  thd 
Fire,  till  it  thickens,  and  pour  it  into  Glaflcs  ; 
^  |f  you  love  it  richly  perfum'd,  put  in  a  Grain 

of  Ambergreefe. 

To  make  Orange-Cream. 

TAKE  four  Oranges,  and  grate  the  Feels 
into  a  Pint  of  Water  ;  then  fqueeze  the 
Juice  into  the  Water  j  beat  the  Yolks  of  four 
Eggs  very  well,    and  put  into  the  Water  j 
f  fweeten  it  very  well  with  double-refin'd  Su- 

gar ;  prefs  all  hard  thro'  a  ftrong  Strainer  ; 
fct  in  on  the  Fire,  and  ftir  it  carefully  all  one 
way,  till  Vis  as  thick  as  Cream ;  then  pour  it 
into  your  Glaflcs. 

A  very  Rich  Almond-Cream,  to  Jelly. 

li^  AKE   a  very  ftrong  Jelly  of  Harts- 
r^^  horn  ^  and  that  it  may  be  fo,  put  half  a 
Pound  of  good  Harts-horn,  to  a  Quart  and 
>    '  half 


έΨιέΨι  *--  - 


I 


^o       A  CoOeCihn  (f  Receipts 

half  a  Pint  of  Water  ;  let  it  boil  away  near  i 
half  J  ftrain  it  off  thro'  a  Jclly-bag ;  then 
have  ready,  beaten  to  a  very  fine  Paftc,  fix 
Ounces  of  Almonds,  which  muft  be  cdrefiilly 
beat  with  one  Spoonful  of  good  Orange*flower 
Water,  with  fix  or  eight  Spoonfuls  of  very 
thick  fweet  Cream  ^  then  take  near  as  much 
Cream  as  you  have  Jelly,  and  put  both  into 
a  Skellet,  and  ftrain  in  your  Almonds ; 
fweetcn  it  to  your  Tafte  with  doublc-refin'd 
Sugar  ;  fet  it  over  the  Fire,  and  ftir  it  with 
Care  conftantly,  till  'tis  ready*  to  boil  j  ┬μb 
take  it  off,  and  keep  it  ftirring,  till  'ti3  near 
cold  ;  then  pour  \t  into  narrow-bottom'd 
Drinking-glaffes,  in  which  let  it  ftand  a 
whole  Day  :  When  you  would  turn  it  out, 
put  your  GlafTcs  into^warm  Water  for  a. Mi- 
nute, and  'twill  turn  out  like  a  Sugar-loaf* 
This  is  caird  Stec^Je-Cream. 


To  make  Orange-Poflet. 

CQUEEZE  the  Juice  of  two  Seville 
^  Oranges,  and  one  Lemon,  into  a  CJbha 
Bafbn,  that  holds  about  a  Quart ;  fweeten 
this  Juice,  like  a  Syrup,  with  double-refin'd 
Sugar,  put  to  it  two  Spoonfuls  of  Orange- 
flower  Water,  and  ftrain  it  thro'  a  fine  Sieve  ; 
boil  a  large  Pint  of  thick  Cream,  with  Ibmc 
of  the  Orange  Peel  in  it  cut  thin  :  When  'tis 
pretty  cool,  pour  it  into  the  Baibn  of  Juice 
through  a  Funnel,  which  muft  be  held  as 

high 


/ 


in  Cookery,  ^c.  6 1 

high  as  you  can  from  the  Bafon  :  It  muft 
ftartd  a  Day  before  you  ufc  it-  When  it  goes 
to  Table,  ftick  Slips  of  candy M  Orange,  Le- 
mon, and  Citron  Peel  on  the  Top. 

Piftachia^Crcain,  very  good. 

TAKE  an  Ounce  of  the  Kernels  of  A- 
pachia  Nut,  beat  them  Imall  with  two 
Spoonfuls  of  Orange-flower  Water,  and  four 
Yolks  of  Eggs  ;  -  boil  a  Quart  of  Cream,  and 
mix  all  together:  When  the  Cream  is  fo  cool 
it  will  not  curdle  the  Eggs,  thicken  it  over 
the  Fire  with  great  Care,  and  put  it  into  your 
Glaffcs. 


To  make  FrydQxtzm. 


T 


AKE  a  Qiiart  of  good  new  Cream,  the 
Yolks  cf  feven  Eggs,  a  Bit  of  Lemon 
Peel,  a  grated  Nutmeg,  two  Spoonfuls  of 
Sack,  as  much  Orange-fiawer  Water :  Butter 
your  Sauce-pan,  and  put  it  over  the  Fire  ; 
ftir  it  all  the  while  one  way  with  a  h'ttle  white 
Whisk,  and  as  you  ftir,  ftrcw  in  Flour  very 
lightly,  till  'tis  thick  and  (booth  ;  then  'tis 
boird  enough,  and  may  be  pour'd  out  upon 
a  Cheefe-plate  or  Mazarine  ;  fpread  it  with 
a  Knife  exadly  even,  about  half  an  Inch 
thick,  then  cut  it  in  Diamond-fquares,  and 
fry  it  in  a  Pan  full  of  boiling  fweet  Suet. 

fo 


6t        A  CoJieSfhn  of  ^eceipii 
To  make  a  very  good  Barlcy-GnicL 

OF*  three  Ounces  of  Pearl-barley  make  i 
Quart  of  Barley-water  ;  fliift  it  once  or 
twice,  if  'tis  not  white ;  put  to  it  four  Ounces 
of  Currants  clean  picfc'd  and  walh'd  ;  when 
tljey  are  plump'd,  pour  the  Gruel  out  to  cool 
a  little,  and  beat  up  the  Yolks  of  three  Eggs, 
and  put  into  it,  ^yith  half  a  Pint  of  White-, 
wine,  and  half  a  i?int  of  new  thick  Cream, 
the  Peel  of  a  Lemon,  and  as  much  Sugar  as 
you  like  j  ftir  it  gently  over  the  Fire,  till  'ti* 
as  thick  as  Cream.  'Tis  a  pretty  wholeibmc 
Spoon-meat  for  Suppers. 

To  make   the   Thick  Square  Cream-* 
Cheefe,  as  at  Newport. 

YOU  muft  get  a  Vat  made  a  quarter  and 
half  high  ;  the  Bottom  (nor  Top)  mutt 
not  be  fattened  in  ^  it  muft  be  four-iquare, 
with  Holes  all  over ;  then  take  two  Quarts  of 
good  thick  Cream,  two  Quarts  of  Stroakings, 
and  a  Gallon  of  new  Milk  ;  fet  it  with  Run- 
net,  as  for  common  Cheefe  ;  when  'tis  come, 
take  out  the  Curd  with  a  China  Saucer,  and 
put  it  into  the  Vat ;  ftrew  a  little  clean  dry 
Salt  in  two  or  three  Places,  as  it  is  laid  in  j 
and  as  the  Curd  finks,  fill  up  the  Vat,  till 
all  the  Cheefe  is  in;  prefs  it  as  other  Cheefe: 
Let  it  ftand  in  the  Vat  two  6r  three  Days, 

till 


in  Coekcfy,  d^c.  S^ 

till  aQ  Che  Whey  is  out,  and  turned  often, 
while  'tis  in  ;  fait  it  two  Days  :  When  you 
take  it  out,  you  muft  let  it  dry  without  rub- 
bing ;  and  make  it  in  May.  If  you  defire  it 
exadly  four-fquare,  let  the  Vat  be  foil  a 
quarter  and  half  high,  and  the  Square  want 
an  Inch  of  a  quarter. 

fto  make  a  pretty  Sort  of  Flummery. 

PUT  three  large  Handfols  of  Oatmeal, 
ground  fmafl,  into  two  Quarts  of  fair 
Water  ;  let  it  fteep  a  Day  and  Night ;  then 
pour  off  the  clear  Water,  and  put  the  fame 
Quantity  of  frefh  Water  to  it ;  ftrain  it  thro* 
a  line  Hair-fieve,  and  boil  it  till  'tis  as  thick 
as  Hafty-pudding  ;  ftir  it  all  the  while,  that 
it  may  be  extremely  fmooth  :  And  when 
you  firft  ftrain  it  out,  before  you  fet  it  on  the 
Fire,  put  in  one  Spoonful  of  Sugar,  and  two 
of  good  Orange-flower  Water.  When  'tis 
boird  enough,  pour  it  into  fliallow  Difhcs, 
for  your  Ufe. 
f 

To  make  Harts-horn  Flummery. 

"pUT  a  Pound  of  Harts-horn  Shavings  to 
^  three  Quarts  of  Spring- Water,  boil  it 
very  gently  over  a  fbft  Fire,  till  ^tis  con- 
fum'd  to  one  Quart ;  then  ftrain  it  thro'  a  fine 
Sieve  into  your  Bafon,  and  let  it  ftand  >till 
cold  J  then  juft  melt  it  over  the  Fire,  and  put 

to 


t^4        ACotteiiion  of  Receipts 

to  it  half  a  Pint  of  White-wine,  aPiatof  ntfVr 
thick  Cream,  and  four  Spoonfuls  of  Orange-* 
flower  Water ;  fcald  your  Cream,  and  let  it 
be  cold,  before  you  mix  it  with  Wine  and 
Jelly  ;  put  in  double-refin'd  Sugar  to  your 
Tafte,  and  then  beat  it  all  one  way,  for  an 
Hour  and  an  half  at  leaft  ;  for  if  you  are  not 
thus  careful  in  beating,  'twill  neither  mix, 
nor  look  to  pleafe  you.  Let  the  Cups  you 
pour  It  into,  be  di^'d  in  clean  Water  ;  for 
if  they  are  dry,  it  will  not  turn  out  well  : 
<  Keep  it  in  t'he  Cups  a  Day  before  you  ufe  it. 
When  'tis  lent  to  Table,  you  muft  turn  it  out, 
and  ftick  it  all  over  the  Top  with  blanch'd 
Almonds  cut  in  Slips. ^  Eat  it  in  Cream,  or 
Wine,  which  you  like  beft. 

A  Whipp' d  SyWihvh^  extraordinary^ 

TA  K  E  a  Quart  of  Cream,  and  boil  it, 
let  it  ftand  till  'tis  cold  ;  then  take  a 
Pint  of  White- wine ;  pare  a  Lemon  thin,  and 
ft'eep  the  Peel  in  the  Wine,  two  Hours  before 
you  ufe  it ;  to  this  add  the  Juice  of  a  Lemon, 
and  as  much  Sugar  as  will  make  it  very 
Iweet  :  Put  all  this  together  into  a  Bafbn, 
and  whisk  it  all  one  way,  till  'tis  pretty 
thick  :  Fill  your  Glaffes,  and  keep  it  a  Day 
before  you  uie  it  ;  'twill  keep  good  three  or 
fouT  Days.  Let  your  Cream  be  full  Mea- 
fare,  and  your  Wine  rather  kls.  If  you  like 
it  perfumed,  put  in  a  Grain  or  two  of  Am- 
bergrecfe.  Panada, 


in  ^ookcty^  ^c.  ^^ 

PsLtiii^^  for  a  Sick  or  Weak  Stomach. 

P  U  T  the^  Crumb  of  a  Penny  White-loaf 
έΑλ**  grated  into  a.  Quart  of  cold  Water;  fet 
both  on  the  Fire  together,  with  a  Blade  t)f 
Mace :  When  'tis  boil'd  fmoolh,  take  it  off 
the  Fire,  and  put  in  a  Bit  of  Lemon-peel,  the 
Juice  of  a  Lemon,  aGlafs  of  Sack^  and  Sugar 
te  yoiir  Tafte.  This  is  very  nOurifliing,  and 
li6ver  ofiends  the  Stdmach┬τ  Some  feaibn  with 
Butter  and  Sugar^  adding  Currants,  which 
on  fome  Occafions  are  proper  ;  bijt  the  Hr^ 
is  the  moft:  gtatefui  And  innocent. 

'To  make  iSagoe*  ' 

P  trl*   ail  Ounce  of  Sagoe  to  a  I*int  of 
^  Water,  fet  it  oVer  the  Fire,  and, ftir  it 
carefully  'till  'tis  thick ;  feafon  it  with  three 
Spodnfills  of  Sack  or  White- wincj  a  Bit  of '  ┬╗έβο         \ 
Letnoh-peel,    and  %ht  Juice  of  a  Lemon.  \   έΑλ 

Sweeten  it  to  yoiir  Tfefte. 

To  make  Salep* 

PiJ  T  half  an  Ouftce  of  Salep  to  a  Pint  of 
Water,  fet  it  oVSr  the  Fire,  and  ftir  it  'till      έΑλ' 
'tis  as  thick  as  Chocolate,  and  feaibn  it  with 
έΑλRofe-Water,    or  Oratige-flower  Water,    or 
Sack :  If  you  like  it  better,  a  littk  Juice  of  \ 

Lemon  and  Sugar.    ^Tis  good  forWeak  of 
Confumptiye  People.  w 


\ 


66       A  CoUe^ipn  of  Receipts 

To  make  Orange- Marmalade,  very  good. 

np  AKE  eighteen  fair  large  Sevilk^Oizn^QSy 
^  pare  them  very  thin,  then  cut  them  in 
halves,  and  fave  their  Juice  in  a  clean  VefTel, 
and  fet  it  covered  in  a  cool  Place;  put  the  half 
Oranges  into  Water  for  one  Night,  then  boil 
them  very  tender,  ftiifting  the  Water  ^till  all 
the  Bitternefi  is  out,  then  dry  them  well  and 
pick  out  the  Seeds  and  Strings  as  nicely  as 
you  can  ;  pound  them  fine,  and  to  every 
Pound  of  Pulp  take  a  Pound  of  doublc-re- 
lin'd  Sugar;  boil  your  Pulp  and  Sugar  almoft 
to  a  Candy-^height :  When  this  is  ready,  yott 
muft  take  the  Juice  of  fix  Lemons,  the  Juice 
,  of  all  the  Oranges,  fl:rain  it,  and  take  its  full 
Weight  in  double- refinM  Sugar,  all  which 
pour  into  the  Pulp  and  Sugar ;  and  boil  the 
whole  pretty  fafl:  'till  it  will  Jelly.  Keep 
your  Glaflfes  covered,  and  'twill  be  a  lafting 
wholefbme  Sweet-meat  for  any  Ufe.  If  you 
would  rather  have  it  Jelly,  add  Pippin- Jdly, 
and  leave  out  half  the  Juice  of  Orange  and 
Lemon* 


Lemon-Cakcs. 


T 


A  K  E  a  Pound  of  double-refin'd  Sugar, 
beat  and  fift  it  very  fine,  wet  it  with 
Juice  >of  Lemon,  boil  it  almoft  to  a  Candy- 
height,  then  drop  it  on  Plates;  fe.t  it  in  a 
warm  Place,  'till  they  will  flip  off  the  Plates. 

^H  They 


έΨιv. 


έΨιέΑλέΨι\ 


I  in  CocJcery,  &c.  6^ 

,  Thcjr  are  grateful^  and  proper  to  quench 
r/Thi/ft*    You  may  fhred  the  Peel  very  line, 

and  boil  up  with  one  half,  if  you  like  it :  but 
r:  add  frefh  Juiee  with  that,  or  'twill  be  too 

thick  to  drop  neatly. 

Orangey-Chips. 

/^  U  T  off  the  Peels  of  very  fine  Oranges, 
7-^  not  too  thin,  boil  them  in  a  large  quan- 
tity of  Water,  fhifting  them  often,  that  they 
may  not  be  bitter  :  When  they  are  tender, 
dry  them,  and  take  their  Weight  in  double- 
refin'd  Sugar  j .  boil  the  Chips  and  Sugar, 
when  wet,  to  a  Candy,  'till  the  Sugar  be 
almoft  confumed :  Lay  thenl  thin  on  Plates 
to  dry. 

Jelly  .0/ CurrantSp 

npAK┬μ  yout  Currants,  and  ftrip  them 
^  from  the  Stalks  into  a  Gally-pot,  which 
tot  you  muft  put  into  a  Kettle  of  Water 
over  the  Fire  'till  they  be  enough  j  ftrain 
them  through  a  Flanel  Jelly-bag,  but  don't 
iqueeze  it;  add  to  the  Liquor  its  Weight  in 
doublc-iefin'd  Sugar,  boil  both  up  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  Hour  very  gently,  then  put  it  into 
,  Glaflcs; 


┬μ  % 


AprI- 


6^       A  Colhciion  of  Receipt i 

Apricot-Chips. 

Tp  A  K  E  the  Weight  of  the  whole  Apri- 
cot  in  doublc-rcfin'd  Sugar,  then  flicc 
them  the  long- way,  but  don't  pare  them^ 
boil  your  Sugar  to  a  thin  Candy,  then  put 
the  Fruit  in,  and  let  them  ftand  on  the  Fire 
'dll  icalding-^hot ┬τ  lay  them  thin  on  Plates, 
and  fet  them  iti  the  Sun  to  dry,  when  thdy 
hare  Iain  one  Night  in  the  Liquor. 


To  ^refirije  Apricots  in  Jelly. 


T 


O .  a  Pound  of  Apricots,  before  they  are 
ftoned  and  pared,  take  a  έΑλPound  and  a 
quarter  of  double- refin'd  Sugar ;  ftone  and 
pare  your  Apricots,  and  have  your  Sugar 
finely  beat; -ate  you  pare  them,  lay  ibme  Su- 
car  under  and  over  them  ;  when  the  Sugar 
1$  pretty  wefl  rhcltcd,  fet  them^  on  th6  Fire 
and  boil  them  j  keep  fome  Sugar  out  to  ftrew 
on  them  in  the^  boiling,  to  keep  their  Colour ; 
and  as  the  Scujn  rifes,  take  it  oflf  very  clean, 
and  fonfietfmie?)i  turn  them  with  the  Ladle,  as 
you  fee  Occafion:  When  they  are  tender,,  put 
them  into  Gtalfts.  Add  to  your  .Syrup,  a 
quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Pipin-liquor,  and  the 
Weight  of  it  in  Sugar,  and  let  it  boil  a  while  j 
put  it  to  your  Apricots:  Let  your  Fire 
DC  quick ;  for  the  fooner  any  White-Sweet- 
meat is  done,  'twill  look  the  better.  You 
*  may 


/ 


I 


V 


in  Cookery,  &c.  6^ 

may  let  the  Liquor  run  through  a  Jelly-bag, 
if  you  would  have  it  delicately  clear. 

Prawlings,   or  Frfd  Almonds. 

T^AKE  a  Pound  of  the  beft  Jordan- 
-έΨι*  Almonds,  rub  them  vejry  dean  from  the 
Duft :  Take  their  Weight  in  Loaf-Sugar,  wet 
it  with  Orange-flower- Water,  and  boil  it  to 
a  Syrup;  then  throw  the  Almonds  into  it, 
and  boil  them  to  a  Candy,  conftantly  Hir- 
ing 'tin  they  are  dry ;  then  put  them  into  a 
Difh,  and  take  away  the  loofe  Bits  and  Knobs 
which  will  be  about  them :  Put  the  Almonds 
again  into  the  Preferving-pan,  and  fet  them 
on  a  flow  Fire,  'till  fomc  of  their  Oil  comes 

from  them  into  the  Bottom  of  the  Pan. 

.  < 

jTo  ^refervs  Orange-Flowers* 

pICK  the  Flowers,  and  little  Oranges  and 
-*έΑλ  Stalks  apart>  boil  the  Flowers  in  clear 
Water  'till  they  are  tender  j  boil  the  Kttle 
Oranges  and  Stalks  alio  in  feyeral  Waters^ 
'till  the  Bitternefs  be  quite  gone :  To  a  Pound 
of  Flowers  take  three  Po'unds  of  double-* 
refin'd  Sugar,  wet.  the  Sugar  with  Water, 
and  boil  it  to  a  Syrup ;  then  drain  the 
Flowers  from  their  Water,  and  jHit  them  into 
the  Syrup,  boil  them  a  little,  and  put  them 
Uito  GJaffes. 


yo        A  ColU┬μii&n  of  Receipts 
Cakes  of  Orange-Flowers. 

* 

TO  a  Pound  of  Flowers  take  five  Pounds 
of  dduble^r efinM  Sugar ;  dip  your  Su-  . 
gar  in  Water,  and  lay  it  in  the  Preferving- 
pan  to  melt ;  pick  the  out-fide  JL┬╗eaves  off, 
poll  the  Flowers  in  Water  'till  they  are  tender, 
and  drain  them  well :  While  they  boil,  you 
muft  fet  your  diffolv'd  Sug3.r  on  the  Fire,  and 
boil  it  to  thick  Syrup,  and  be  fure  to  let  it 
ftand  to  be  cold,  before  you  put  in  your 
Orange-flowers ;  drop  them  nicely  on  Plates, 
in  round  Cakes,  and  dry  them  in  the  hot  Sun, 
or  a  Stove, 

A  very  good  Way  to  make  Confctve  of 

Roles. 


M 


AK┬μ  a  ftrong  Infufion  of  Red  Rofes 
with  Red-rofc  Water,  as  much  as  you 
think  will  boil  the  Quantity  you  intend  to 
make ;  then  take  the  frefh  Buds  of  Rofes, 
and  clip  off  all  the  white  and  withered 
Leaves  j  and  boil  thefe  Buds  in  the  infufed. 
Liquor,  as  fcft  as  may  be,  'till  they  are  very 
tender,  and  as  red  as  they  were  at  firft; 
then  take  them  out,  and  weigh  them,  and 
put  twice  the  Weight  of  double-refin'd  Sugar, 
and  boil  it  aj^airi,  with' the  Sugar,  ag  fafl  as 
(pan  fee^j  'till  it  Jellies  j  when  you  tal^e  it  out, 

yp┬╗ 


I 


in  Cookery,  a^c.  71 

you  may  add  either  Amber,  Pearl,  Coral, 
Gold,  or  Spirit  of  Vitri9l ;  thefe  laft  Addi- 
tions, are  as ,  well  made,  when  'tis  ufed  ; 
becaufe  'tis  good  for  many  Diftempers,  and 
they  may  he  fuited  to  the  Occafion. 


A  Powder  for  Digeftion. 


T 


AK  E  a  very  large  Nutmegs  the  fame 
Weight  in  Mace,  the  Vame  Weight  iii 
Annifecds,  and  the  Weight  of  all  the  Ingre- 
dients of  Angelica-feeds ;  bake  all  thele  in  the 
middle  of  a  fm^all  brown  Wheaten-Loaf , 
when  'tis  enough  take  out  the  Spice  and 
Seeds,  and  beat  them  to  a  very  fine  Powder, 
with  Powder  of  Crab's- Eyes,  and  double- 
refin'd  Sugar,  of  each  a  like  Quantity,  enough 
to  make  the  Powder  palatable ;  take  as  much 
as  will  lie  on  a  Shilling,  after  every  Meal. 
I  have  known  it  wonderfully  rch'cve  a  windy, 
fbure,  weakened  Stomach;  jt  muft  be  conti^^ 
nued  a  Month  or  two. 

To  Candy  any  fort  of  Flowers. 

np  A  K  E  the  beft  treble  refin'd  Sugar  you 
-*^  can  get,  break  it  in  Lumps,  dip  them 
piece  by  Piece  in  Water ;  put  them  in  a  Sil- 
ver Sauce- pan^  or  Bafon,  melt  them  over  the 
Fire ;  when  it  j[ult  boils,  ftrain  it  through  a 
Muflin,  and  fet  it  on  the  Fire  agak,  and  let 
it  hoil:>  'hII  it  draws  in  Hairsj  which  you 

E  4  may  \ 


7%        A  ColkSiton  of  Receipts^ 

may  fee  by  holding  up  your  Spoon  ;  then 
put  in  the  Flowers,  of  ^ny  Sort,  and  fet  them 
in  Cups  or  Glafles,  and  when  'tis  of  a  hard 
Candy,  break  it  in  Lumps,  and  lay  it  as  high 
as  you  pleafe :  Dry  it  in  a  Stove,  pr  the  3up^ 
and  'twi^  look  like  Sugar-eandy^ 

Thick  Ginger-Bread. 

A  Pound  and  half  of  Flour,  takes  up  one 
^  Pound  of  Treacle,  almoft  as  mqch  Sur 
gar,  an  Ounce  of  beaten  Ginger,  two  Ounces 
of  Caraway-feeds,  four  Ounces  of  Citron, 
and  JLemon-pcel  candy'd,  the  Yolks  of  four 
Sggs;  cut  your  Sweet-meats,  mix  all,  ^nd 
bake^  it  in  large  Cakes,  on  Tin-plates. 

Wafers. 

1^  R  Y  your  Flour,  and  make  it  into  9 
thick  Batter  with  Cream,  put  in  Mace 
very  fine  beat,  a  little  Sugar  to  your  Tafte ; 
Buttef  your  Irons,  and  let  them  be  hot,  then 
put  in  a  Tca-fpoonful  of  the  Batter ;  fo  bake 
them  with  Care,  and  roll  them  oflf  the  Iron, 
on  a  fmall  Stick. 

Agoo4  Sort  0/ Portugal-Cakes. 

┬τJ^AKE  a  Pound  of  new  Butter,  and  6,x 
Eggs,  leaving  out  two  Whites ;  then 
Yror|:  it  togcthw  yritji  your  Hiwd,  'till  the 

έΑλ  *  έΨι'έΨιέΨιέΨι  -        -         ;s 


'< 


in  Cookery,  ^c.  7  j 

Eggs  aye  perfcftly  mixt  in  the  Butter  5  to  this 
put  one  Pound  of  Loaf- Sugar  lifted,  a  Pound 
of  fine  Flour  dry*d,  half  a  Pound  of  Cnr- 
xants,  a  Iktle  beaten  Mace,  mix  all  together} 
Butter  .the  Pans:  fill  and  bake  them  in  aa 
Overi  that  won't  colour  a  white  Paper. 

* 

έΑλ  ^  Caraway^Cake,  mthoutTeaJi. 

T^  A  K  E  five  Pounds  of  Flour,  and  four 
Pounds  of  fingle-rcfin'd  Sugar  beat,  and 
finely  fifted,  mix  this  with  a  Pound  and  half 
of  Carraw"ay-feeds  ;  tq.  this  Quantity,  you 
muft  take  four  Pounds  of  Butter,^  which  muft 
be  work'/d  in  eight  Spoonfuls  of  Orange-? 
flower  W^er  'till  'tis  perfedly  mix*df<  an<i 
looks  like  Cream  ;  break  twenty  EJggs,  but 
half  of  the  Whites,  be^t  them  wel|  j  and  v\ 
beating,  add  fix  Spoonfuls  of  Sack,  ftrew  iii 
the  Flour^  Sugar,  and  Seeds,  by  little  aii4 
little^  into  the  Eggs  and  Butter,  wjt^  a  Poun^ 
of  candy 'd  Citron,  Lemon  and  Orange-peel; 
JiCt  the  firft  Fiercenefsof  your  Oven  be  overi^ 
before  you  put  the  C^ke  in*  for  fear  of 
'  {torching ;  for  the  Oven  muft  be  hot,  and 
you  muft  |{eep  beaming  your  Calc;e,  'till  it 
goes  into  the  Hoop,  which  muft  be  juft  as 
f he  Oven  is  ready. 

Note^  That  half  a  found  qf  the.Cafaway^ 
fg^ds  may  be  omitted. 


^a 


\ 

4 


,  74        -^  CoUe┬μikn  of  Receipts  , 
An  excellent  Plumb-Pudding. 

T^AKE  one  Pound  of  Suet,  fhred  very 
^  fmall  and  fifted,  one  Pound  of  Raifins 
fton'd,  four  Spoonfuls  of  Flour,  and  four 
Spoonfuls  of  Sugar,  five  Eggs,  but  three 
Whites ;  beat  the  Eggs  with  a  little  Salt  : 
Tie  it  up  clofe,  and  boil  it  four  Hours  at 
leaft. 

To  make  Stone-Cream. 

np  A  K  E  a  Pint  and  half  of  thick  Cream, 
-*έΑλ  boil  in  it  a  Blade  of  Mace,  and  a  Stick 
of  Cinnamon,  and  fix  Spoonfuls  cflf  Orange- 
flower  Water,  fweeten  it  to  your  Tafte  ;  ^ 
and  boil  it  'till  thick ;  then  pour  it  out,  and 
keep  it  flirring  'till  'tis  almoft  cold ;  then  put 
in  a  fmall  Spoonful  of  Runnet,  and  put  it 
into  your  Cups'  or  GlafTes :  Make  it  three  or 
lour  Hours  before  you  ufe  it  j  'tis  good. 

^0  make  Cracknels. 

TO  a  Quart  of  Flour,^  take  a  Pound  of 
Butter,  half  a  Nutmeg  grated,  the 
Yolks  of  four  Eggs  beat,  with  four  Spoonfuls 
of  Rofe- water ;  put  the  Nutmeg  and  Eggs 
into  the  Flour,  and  wet  it  into  a  ftiff  Pafte, 
with  cold  Water;  then  roll  in  the  Butter,  and 
inake  them  into  fbapc  j  put  them  into  a 

Kettle 


/ 
f 


in  Cookery,  &c,  '  7  5 

TCettlc  of  boiling  Water ;  when  they  fvvim, 
take  them  out  with  a  Skimmer,  and  put 
them  into  cold  Water  ;  when  they  arc 
hardened,  lay  them  out  to  dry,  and  bake 
them  on  Tin-plates*         v         . 

A  'oery  good  Seed- Cake. 

'TP  A  K  E  a  quarter  of  a  Peck  of  line  Flour,* 
-^    and  dry  it  before  the  Fire,  with  three' 
quarters  of  a  Pound  of  Sugar  j  beat  a  quarter 
of  a  Pound  of  Almonds ;  to  keep  them  from 
Oiling,  pour   in  two  Spoonfuls  of  Oranges- 
flower  Water,  as  you  beat  them,  and  mix 
this  with  the  Flour   and  Sugar  j  put  in  the 
full  Weight  of  a  Pound  and  half  of  BiUter  j  rub 
in  one  half  dry,  and  melt  the  other  in  a  full 
Pint  of  Cream  j  before  you  begin  to  mix,  put 
a  Pint  of  good  Ale-yeaft,  to  half  a  tint  of 
Sack,  and  let  it  rile  before  the  Fire  j  let  your 
Butter  and   Cream  juft  melt  over  a  gentle 
Fire,  and  when  'tis  pretty  cool,  make  a  flolc 
in  the  middle  of  your  Flour,  and  pour  in 
the  Cream  and  Butter,  the  Sack  and  Yeaft, 
with  nine  Eggs,  leaving  out  four  Whites; 
beat  and  ftrain  your  Eggs,  and  mix  all  well 
together,    and    fet  it  to  the  Fire  to  rife  : 
When  'tis  ready  to  put  into  the  Hoop,  njix 
in  a  Pound  and  a  half  of  fmooth  Carraways, 
with  half  a  Pound  of  Citron,  Orange  and  Le- 
mon peel  candy'd;  cut  this  in  long  Bits,  and 

ftrew  it  [n  the  Middle  of  your  Cake :  You 

may 


76        A  Colkdlon  of  Receipts. 

may  put  more  Sweetmeats,  anj3  Ice  it,  if  you 
defire  it  very  rich. 

Q^he  London- Wigs. 

^pAKE  a  quarter  of  a  Peck  of  Flour, 
*  put  to  it  half  a  Pound  of  Sdgar,  and 
9s  much  Caraways,  fmooth  or  rough,  as  you 
like ;  mix  thefe,  and  fet  them  to  the  Fire  to 
dry,  then  make  a  Pound  and  half  of  Butter 
hot  oyer  a  gentle  Fire ;  ilir  it  often,  and  add 
tp  it  near  a  Quart  of  good  Milk  or  Cream; 
when  the  Butter  is  ndfelted  in  the  Cream, . 
pour  it  into  the  middle  of  the  Flour,  and 
to  it  pour  a  little  Sack,  and  full  a  Pint  and 
l^alf  of  very  good  Ale-yeaft  j  let,  it  ftand  be- 
fore the  Fire  to  rifcg  before  you  lay  them  on 
your  Tin-plates  to  bake. 

έΑλ 

Egg  Minc'd-iPycs. 

^TpAKE  fix  Eggs,  boil  them  very  hard, 
^  and  ftired  them  finall  j  fhred  double  the 
Quantity  of  good  Suet  very  finej  put,  Cur- 
rants, neatly  walh'd  and  pick'd,  one  Pound, 
or  more  if  your  Eggs  were  large ;  the  Peel 
of  one  Lemon  very  fine  Ihred,  half  the  Juice^^ 
and  five  or  fix  Spoonfuls  of  Sack,  Mace, 
Kutmeg,  Sugar,  and  a  little  Salt ;  and  Can- 
dy'd  Citron,  or  Orange-peel, '  if  you  would 
have  them  rich. 


┬τ. .-  ~ 


M 


in  Cooktry,  ^c.  jf 

An  extraordinary  Plumb-Cake* 

np  A  K  E  feven  Pounds  of  fine  Flour,  and 
-  two  Pounds  and  half  of  Butter  j  put  the 
Butter  into  the  Flour ;  feven  Pounds  of  Cur- 
rants, and  two  large  Nutmegs,  with  half  an 
Ounce  of  Mace,  and  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce 
of  Cloves,  all  finely  beat  and  grated  j  one 
Pound  of  Sugar,  fixteen  Eggs,  leaving  out 
four  Whites,  put  in  a  full  Pint  and  half  of 
Ale-yeaft  ;  warm  as  much  Cream  as  you 
think  will  wet  it,  and  pour  Sack  to  your 
Cream,  to  make  it  as  thick  as  Batter;  beat 
alio  one  Pound  of  Almonds,  with  Sack  and 
Orange-flower  Water ;  feut  don't  let  them  be 
fine,  but  grofly  beat ;  put  in  a  Pound  of  can- 
dy'd. Orange,  Lemon,- and  Citron-peel,  or 
more,  if  you  defire  it  very  rich  j  mix  all,  an4 
put  it  into  your  Hoop,  with  a  Pafte  under  it, 
to  fave  the  Bottom.  This  was  given  by  one 
of  the  niceft  Houfe- wives  m  England  \  and  is 
as  good  as  ever  was  made. 

Icing  for  the  Cake. 

^AKE  the  Whites  of  five  Eggs,  whipC 
up  to  έΑλ  a  Froth,  and  put  a  Pound  of 
double-refin'd.  Sugar  fitted,  a  Grain  of  Am- 
bergreefe,  and  three  Spoonfuls  of  Orange- 
flower  Water  5  whip  it  alt  the  while  the  Cake 
w  in  the  Oven  j  when  it  comes  out  of  the 

,  ,   Oven, 


Jr8        A  ColleEHon  of  RecetpH 

Oven,  Ice  it;  but  fet  it  in  no  more:  Leave 
out  the  Perfiime,  if  it  be  ofFenfive*^ 

Lcmott  or  Chocolate*PufFs* 

TAKE  half  a  Pound  of  double-refined 
Sugar,  finely  beat  and  fifted,  grate  in-* 
tOHt  the  yellow  Rind  of  a  very  fair  large  Le-* 
mon ;  then  whip  up  ;he  Whfte  of  an  Egg 
to  a  Froth,  and  wet  it  with  this  Froth  'till 
'tis  as  ftiff  as  good  working  Paftc ;  lay  it  on 
Papers,  and  bake  it  in  a  very  flow  Oven  \ 
lay  fome  round  and  Ibme  long  :  If  you  make 
Chocolate,  grate  about  an  Ounce  as  you  did 
the  PeeL  ' 

Almond*Puflfs.  :: 

.  *  a 

TD  E  AT  two  Ounces  of  blanch'd  Almonds, 
έΑλ*-*  with  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Orange- 
flower  Water,  and  fifted  Sugar,  *till  they  arc 
fine ;  whip  up  the  Whites  of  three  JEggs, 
and  mix  them  with  Almonds,  Sugar,  and 
Orange-flower  Water  j  then  add  as  much 
fifted  Sugar,  as  will  make  it  into  Pafl:e  j  lay 
it  in  Cakes,  and  bake  it  in  a  cool  Oven. 

I'be  right  Dutch- Wafer. 

np  A  K  E  four  Eggs,  atid  beat  them  very 

έΑλ*-     well,  then  take  a,  good  Spoonful  of 

fine  Sugar,  one  Nutmeg  grated,  a  Pint  of 

Cream 


in  Cookery,   ^c.  yf 

Cream,  and  a  Pound  of  Flour,  a  Pound  of 
Butter  melted,  two  or  three  Spoonfuls  of 
Rofe- water,  and  two  good  Spoonfuls  of 
Yeaft ;  mix  all  well  together,  arid  bake  them 
in  your  Wafer-tongs  on  the  Fire,  For  the 
Sauce,  take  grated  Cinnamon,  Sack,  and 
melted  Butter,   fweetned  to  yout  Taftc. 

To  make  Ratafia-Cakes. 

np  A  K  E  eight  Ounces  of  Apricot-Kernels, 
-^  or,  if  they  cannot  be  had,  Bitter- Al- 
monds will  do  as  well,  blanch  thent,  and 
beat  them  very  fine  with  a  little  Orange- 
flower  Water,  mix  them  with  the  Whites  of 
'three  Eggs  well  beaten,  and  put  to  them  two 
Pounds  1  of  fingle  refin'd  Sugar  finely  beaten 
and  fifted ;  work  all  together,  and  'twill  be 
like  a  Paftej  then  lay  it  in  little  round  Bits 
on  Tin-plates  flour'd,  fet  them  in  an  Oven 
that  is  not  too  hot,  and  they  will  puff  up, 
and  be  ibon  baked. 

The  Nuni-Bisket. 

nr  A  K  E  the  Whites  of  fix  Eggs,  and  beat 
-*-  them  to  a  Froth  ;  take  alio  half  a  Pound 
of  Almonds,  blanch  and  beat  them  with  the 
Froth  of  the  Whites  of  your  Eggs  as  it  rifes  j 
then  take  the  Yolks,  with  a^  Pound  of  fine 
Sugar,  beat  thefe  wejl  together,  and  mix 
your  Almonds  with  your  Eggs  and  Sugar; 

then 


td        A  CoileBion  of  Recftpti 

then  j^ut  in  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Floiin 
with  the  Peel  of  two  Lemons  grated,  and 
fome  Citron  finely  fliredj  bake  ^hem  id 
little  Cake-pans  in  a  quick  Oven,  and  when 
they  are  coloured,  turn  them  on  Tins,  to 
harden  the  feott6mi;  but  before  you  fet  them 
in  the  OVen  again,  ftrew  feme  double-refin'd 
Sugar  on  them  finely  fifced.  Remember  td 
butter  your  Pans,  and  fill  them  but  halfi 

Pancakes,  very  good. 

έΑλJP  A  K  E  a  Pint  of  thick  Cream^  threcf 
Spoonfuls  of  Sack,  and  half  a  Pint  of 
tlour,  fix  ┬μiggs  (but  three  Whites)  one 
grated  Nutmeg,  a  quarter  6f  a  Pound  of 
melted  Buttefj  a  very  little  Salt,  and  fome 
Sugar  J  fry  thefe  thin  in  a  dry  Pan* 

To  tnake  good  Fritters* 

Xl" I X  half  a  Pint  of  good  Cream^  Vety 
thick  with  Flotlr,  beat  fix  Eggs,  leav- 
ing out  four  Whites,  and  to  the  Eggs  piit  fi* 
,  Spoonfuls  of  Sack,  and  ftrain  them  into  the 
Batter ;  put  in  a  little  grated  Nutmeg,  Ginger 
and  Cinnamon^  all  very  fine,  alfo  a  little 
Salt ;  then  put  in  another  half  Pint  of  CttdJUi 
and  beat  the  Batter  near  an  Hour ;  pare  and 
flice  your  Apples  thin,  dip  every  Piece  in 
the  Batter^  aad  throw  them  in  a  Pan- full  of 
boiling  Lard* 

y^Spin- 


A  Spinage-Tart,  very  good. 

^AK  E  fix  Handfuls  of  Spinagc,  wafh  i( 
-έΨιέΑλ  clean,  and  dry  it,  picjt  it  clean  from 
Stalks,  and  the  hard  Rib  that  goes  up  the 
Middle  of  the  Leaf,  flired  it  extremely  fine, 
as  'lis  poffible  to  be ;  piit  to  it  a  Pint  of 
grated  Bread,  the  lighteft  you  can  get,  a  Pint 
of  very  thick  Cream,  nine  Eggs  (but  four  of 
the  Whites)  three  Spoonfuls  of  Orange- 
flower  Water,  a  little  Salt  and  Sugar  to  your 
Tarie ;  it  ought  to  be  pretty  fweet ;  If  with 
your  Orange-fiower  Water,  you  beat  up  t^d 
Ounces  6^  blanch'd  Alriionds,  ^tis  an  incotti- 
parable  Addition  to  the  Tafte.  Garnifii  the 
Brim  of  your  Difti  with  Pafte,  ind  lay  Slips 
crols  Ihe  Top.  Thus  you  may  make  Coujlip 
^art  \  but  that  being  not  fb  juicy^  will  bear 
beating  in  a  Mortar.  Heat  it  with  Care  be** 
fore  it  be  put  into  the  Difli. 

An  Almond  Tart,  nsery  good* 

npO  half  a  Pound  of  Almonds  blanched, 
^  and  very  finely  beat  with  Orange-floweif 
Water,  put  a  Pint  of  thick  Cream,  two  large 
Naples-Biskets  grated,  and  five  Yolks  of 
Eggs,  near  half  a  Found  of  Sugat* ;  put  all 
into  aDilh  garniftied  with  Pafte,  ^rid  lay  Slips 
In  Piamonds  crofs  the  Top  j  bake  it  m  1  cool 

F  Oyc^ 


8^       A  QHh^ion  of  Reeeipfs^ 

Oven,  and  when  it  comes  out,  fticfc.  Slips  of 
candy 'd  Citron  in  each  Diamond.    . 

To  ^referve  Goldcn#Pippii>s,  the  hejt 

Way. 

TAKE  to  a  Pound  of  Apples,  a  Pdrnid  of 
douible-refin'd  Sugar,  and  a  Pint  of 
clear  Spring- Water  j  fet  it  on  the  Fire  j  neatly 
pare  the  Fippins,  and  take  out  che  Stalks  anci 
Eyes,  put  them-  into  the  Sugar  and  Water, 
cover  thejn  clofe^  and  let  them  boil  as  faft  as 
you  can,  half  a  quartet  of  an  Hour ;  then  take 
them  off  a  little  to  cool ;  theft  fet  them  on 
again,  to  boil  as  faft  and  as  long  as  they  did 
before  j  do  this  three  or  four  tim^iy  till  they 
are  very  clear  :  Cover  them  very  clofe^  'till 
you  make  the  following  Jelly  for  ihcnu 

Codlki  or  Pippin- Jell}r. 

SLICE  a  Pound  of  Codlins  or  Pippins  into 
a  Pint  of  clear  Spring-Water,  let  them 
boil  "till  the  Liquor  takes  all  the  Tafte  of 
the  Fruit ;  then  ftrain  k  out,  and  to  a  Pint  of 
this  Liquor  take  a  Pound  of  double-rdin'd 
Sugar,  boird  to  Sugar  again  j  then  put  m 
your  Codlin  Liquor^  boil  it  a  Kttle  together^ 
as  faft  as  you  can;  then  put  in  your  Golden- 
Pippins,  boil  them  up  faft  for  a  little  while  j 
tuft  before  the  laft  Boiling,  fqueeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  Lemon ;  boil  it  up  quick  once 

Diore; 


^ 


ftt  Cookety,  ^c.  S ; 

^  mofe  ;  take  great  care  they  do  not  lofe  Co*- 
lour  :  Take  the  Pippins  out,  and  put  them 

'  into  the  Glaffes  with  the  Jelly.  This  is  the 
raoft  grateful  way  that  ever  was  invented  to 
prefcrv^  them. 

To  make  Raifin  Elder-Wine* 

nr  AKE  fix  Gallons  of  Water,  and  boil  it 
-^    half  an  Hour  ;    and  when  'tis   boil'd, 
add  to  ievery  Gallon  of  .Water  five  Pounds  of 
Malaga  Raifins  flired  fmaU  j  pour  the  Water 
boiling-l#t  upon  them,  and  let  it  ftand  nine 
Days,  ftirring  it  twice  a  Day ;  boil  your  Ber- 
Ties  as  you  do  Currants  for  Jelly,  and  ftrain 
it  as  fine  ;  then  add  to  every  Gallon  of  Liquor 
a  Pint  of  Elder-berry  Juice :  When  you  have 
ftirr'd  all  well  together,  fpread  a  Toaft  on 
both  Sides  with  Yeaft,  let  it  work  a  Day  and 
a  Night,  then  put  it  into  a  Veffel,  .which  be 
fure  to  fill  as  it  works  over  ;  ftop  it  dole, 
when  it  has  done  working,  till  you  are  fure 
'tis  fine,  then  bottle  it. 

Jnother^  very  Wholefome. 

np  O  every  Gallon  of  pickM  Elder-berries, 
-*"  put  a  full  Gallon  of  Water,  boil  them 
together,  till  the  Berries  are  tender,  then 
ftrain  it  off  thro'  a  fine  Sieve  ;  let  what  will 
run  thr'o',  but  don't  prefs  the  Berries  ;  to 
every  Gallon  of  the  Liquor,    put  two  full 

F  2  Pounds 


\ 


!?4       AColkSiion  of  Receipts 

Pounds  of  good  Lisbon  Sugar  :  This  Sort  fof 
prefent  Drinking.  What  you  defign  to  keep 
Ibmc  Years,  muft  have  two  Pounds  and  a  hdf 
of  Sugar  ;  boil  the  Liquor  and  Sug^ar  toge- 
ther, arid  fcutn  it  clean  in  the  Boiling  as  long 
as  any  will  rife  ,j  when  cool,  work  it  with 
.  Ycaft  for  a  Night  and  a  Day ;  put  it  into  the 
Veflel,  and  when  it  has  done  working,  flop  it 
clofe  for  five  or  fix  Months  :  Bottle  it  then,  if 
fine.  This  ought  to  be  the  conftant  Drink 
for  all  Gouty  People  :  If  well  boil'd  and 
work'd,  it  never  ferments  in  the  Bottle  or 
Stomach. 

Quince  Wine, 

/^LEAN  the  C^inces  with  a  coarfe  Cloth, 
^*^  then  grate  them  on  large  Graters ;  then 
fqueeze  them  through  a  Linen  Strainer,  to 
dear  it  from  the  grofsThicknels;  then  Iqueeze 
it  through  a  Flannel  Strainer,  to  clear  it  from 
all  the  Thick  that  remains  :  To  every  Gal- 
lon of  this  Liquor,  put  two  Pounds  of  fingle 
Loaf-Sugar  5  let  it  diffolve,  and  pour  it  oflF 
feveral  times,  as  it  fettles  to  the  Bottom ;  do 
this  a  Night  and  a  Day  :  When  'tis  fipe,  put 
it  into  your  Veffel,  but  don^t  flop  it  down 
for  a  Week,  nor  bottle  it  in  fix  Months ;  then 
you  may,  if  'tis  perfedly  fine ;  if  not,  draw 
it  into  another  Veifel,  and  fiiop  it  up  again. 

Be  fure  to  put  aU  Englifh  Wines  into  cool 
Cellars/ 

Orange- 


in  Cookery,  &c,  8  5 

/ 

Orange-Winc. 

*^0  fix  Gallons  of  Spring- water,  put  twelve 
έΑλέΨι-  Pounds  of  fingle-refin'd  Sugar,  the 
Whites  of  four  Eggs  well  beaten  ;  put  thefe 
to  the  Water  cold  ;  then  let  it  boil  three 
quarters  of  an  Hour,  taking  off  the  Scum  as 
faft  as  it  rifes  :  When  'tis  cold,  put  in  fix 
Spoonfuls  of  Yeaft,  and  fix  Ounces  of  Syrup 
of  Lemon,  beaten  together  j  put  in  alio  the 
Juice  and  Rind  of  fifty  large  Oranges  thin 
par'd,  that  no  white  Part,  nor  any  of  the 
Seeds  go  in  with  the  Juice,  Nvhich  mould  be 
ftrain'd  :  Let  all  this  fl:and  two  Nights  and 
two  Days  in  an  open  VeffeJ,  or  large  Pan, 
then  put  it  into  your  clofe  % flel,  and  in  three 
or  four  Days  flop  it  down  :  When  it  has 
ftood  three  Weeks  thu^j  draw  it  off  into 
another  Veffel,  and  add  to  it  two  Quarts  of 
Rhenilh  or  White- wine  ;  thfen  flop  ft  dole 
again,  and  in  a  Month  or  fix  Weeks,  'twill 
be  fine  enough  to  bottle,  and  to  drink  in  a 
Month  after.  Ifyo>|  defire  it  fliould  keep, 
put  in  Brandy  inftead  of  Rhenifh. 

Birch-Wine,  as  made  in  Suflcx. 

TAK^  the  Sap  of  Birch  frefli  drawn^ 
boil  it  as  long  as  any  Scum  arifes  ;  to 
every  Galloii  of  Liquor,  ,put  two  Pounds  of 
good  Sugar  j .  boil  it  half  an  Hour,  and  fcum 

F  3  it 


έΑλ>. 


%6        A  Colh^ion  of  Receipts 

it  very  clean  ;  when  'tis  almoft  cold,  let  it 
with  a  little  Yeaft  fprcad  ori  a  Toaft  ;  let  it 
ftand  five  or  fix  Days  in  an  open  Veffel^  ftir- 
ring  it  often  ;  then  take  fiich  a  Cask  as  the 
Liquor  will  be  fiirc  to  fill  ;  and  fire  a  large 
Match  dipp'd  in  Briniftone,  and  put  it  into 
the  Cask^   and  ftop  in  the  Smoafc,  till  the 
Match   is   extinguifti'd,    always   keeping  it 
Ihook  ;   then  fliake  out  the  Alhes,  and,  as 
quick  as  poflible,  pour  in  a  Pint  of  Sack,  or 
Rhenilh,  which  Tafte  you  like  beft,  for  the 
.Liquor  retains  it ;  rince  the  Cask  well  with 
this,^nd  pour  it  out  :  Pour  in  your  Wine, 
and  ftop  it  clofe  for  fix  Months  ;  then,  if  'tis 
perfedly  fine,  you  may  bottle  it. 


Bkck-Cherry  Wine. 


B 


OIL  fix  Gallons  of  Spring* Water  one 
Hour  ;  then  bruife  twenty-four  Pounds 
of  Black  Cherries,  but  don't  break  the 
Stones ;  pour  the  Water  boiling  hot  on-  the 
Cberies,  ftir  the  Cherries  well  in  the  Water, 
and  let  it  ftand  twenty-four  Hours  ;  then 
ftrain  it  off,  and  to  every  Gallon  put  near  two 
Pounds  of  good  Sugar  ;  mix  it  well  with  the 
Liquor,  and  let  it  ftand  one  Day  longer;  .then 
pour  it  off  clear  into  the  VefTel,  and  ftop  it 
clofe  :  Let  it  be  very  fine,  before  you  draw  it 
off  intp  Botrles, 


Sage^ 


έΑλ 


/ 


in  Cookery^  ^c.  %j 

Sage- Wine,   'oery  good. 

T^  O  twenty-height  Pounds  of  Malaga  Rai- 
-έΨιέΑλ  fins  picJk'd  and  flired,  have  twenty- 
┬τight  Quarts  of  Spring-Water  well  boil'd,  but 
let  it  be  cool  as  Milk  from  the  Cow,  before, 
you  pour  it  tm  the  Raifins  ;  then  put  in  half 
^  Bufliel  of  Red  Sage  grofly  flied  ;  ftir  all 
together,  and  let  it  Itand  fix  Days,  ftirring 
it  very  well  every  Day,  and  cover  it  as  clofe 

,  as  you  can ;  then  ftrain  it  0%  and  pour  it 
into  your  Veffel ;  it  will  loon  be  fine,  but 
you  may  add  two  Quarts  of  Sack  or  White- 
wine  to  fine  it  :  Raifins  of  the  Sun  will  do 

*"as  well  zs  Malaga^  if  they  cannot  be  had. 


Chcrfy-Wine,  as  in  Kent. 


w 


HEN  your  Red  Oierries  are  full  ripe, 
ftrip  them  from  the  Stiigs,  and  ftamp 
them,  as  Apples,  till  the  Stones  are  broke  ; 
then  put  it  into  a  Tub,  and  cover  it  up  dole 
for  three  Days  and  Nights  j  then  prels  it  in 
a  Cyder-prels,  and  put  your  Liquor  again 
Into  a  Tub,  andietit  Hand  clofe  covered  two 
Days  more  ;  then  take  off  the  Scum  very 
carefully,  for  fear  of  jogging,  and  pour  it  off 
the  Lees  into  another  Tub,  and  let  it  Hand 
to  clear  two  Days  more,  then  fcum  and  pour 
ft  off,  as  before.  If  your  Cherries  were  full 
ripe  and  fweet,  put  only  a  Pound  and  a  half 

F  4  of 


┬τ  / 


8┬╗S         A  CoJ legion  (f  I^ceipts 

of  good  Sugar  to  each  Gallon  of  Liquor ;,  ftir 
it  well  together,  and  cover  it  clofe,  and  ftir 
it  no  riiore  till  the  next  Day  ;  then  pour  it 
carefully  off  the  Lees,  as  before ;  let  it  ftand 
again,  and  do  the  fame  the  next  Day  into  the 
Vpffel  you  keep  it  in  :  You  may  repeat  this 
pftener,  if  you  fee  the  Lees  are  grofs  and 
like  to  make  it  fret.  When  'tis  fettled,  ftop 
it  up  till  feven  or  eight  Months  are  paft ;  then, 
if  'tis  perfpdly  firie,  bottle  it ;  if  not,  draw 
it  off  into  another  Vcifcl,  and  ftop  it  up  as 
jnu^h  longer  :  'Twill  fcepp  fcven  Y^ars,  if 
bottled  fine,  and  had  not  beft  be  drank,  till 
*tis  a  Year  old.  Our  EngUjh  Wines  w^nt 
only  Age,  to  equal,  if  not  exceed  all  foreign 
Liquors. 

Rasberry- Wine,  very  good. 

TO  every  Quart  of  Fruit,  you  muft  pou;:, 
boiling-hot,  a  Quart  of  Water  j  cover 
it  very  clofe,  and  l^t  if  ftand  twenty-four 
IJours  J  then  ftrain  it,  and  to  three<^arts  of 
Liquor,  put  two  Pounds  of  good  Sugar ;  ftir 
it  together,  and  fpread  a  Toaft  with  Yeaft  t 
fet  it  to  wprk,  and  pour  it  off  the  Lees  j  put 
it  into  your  VelTel,  and  \yhen  it  has  quite 
done  working,  ftop  it  up  ;  if  ^tis  fine  in  fix 
or  feven  Months,  you  may  bottle  it,  and  keep 
it  a  Year  in  Bottles. 

Note^  You  muft  at  firft  watch  all  Wines  : 
and  if  you  find  them  fret,  continue  to  fine 

thtm 


in  Cookery,  <S^r┬╗  S9 

Ihpm  oflf  the  X.ees  every  Pay,  for  fpme  tiinc, 
a$  faft  as  any  fettles.  ^ 

White  Mead,  njery  good. 

TO  every  Gallon  of  Water,  put  a  Pint  of 
Honey,  and  half  a  Pound  ofLoaf-Sugar; 
ftir  in  the  Whites  of  Eggs  beat  to  a  Froth, 
and  boil  it  as  long  as  any  Scum  arifcs;  when 
^tis  cold,  work  it  with  Ycaft,  and  to  every 
Gallon,  put  the  Juice  and  Peel  of  a  large 
Lemon  :  Stop  it  up  when  it  has  done  work- 
ing, and  bottle  it  ten  Days. 

Tp  i?wJ^ff  Apricot- Wine,  Ipcqmparahle. 

TO  two  Gallops  of  Spring- water,  take  eight 
Pounds  of  ripe  Apricots,  ilice  them  into 
the  Water,'  and  add  to  both  five  Pounds  of 
Loaf-Sugar ;  let  all  boil,  and  be  nicely  fcumm^d 
as  h&  as  it  rifes,  but  let  it  boil  ibme  time 
before  you  begin  to  fcum ;  take  your  Scum  off 
into  a  clean  Sieve,  and  let  it  in  a  Pot,  to  favc 
>yhat  Liquor  comes  from  it :  When  the  Wine 
is  clear  as  you  can  make  it  from  the  Drofs  of 
the  Sugar,  pour  it  hot  upon  the  Kernels, 
which  muft  be  crack'd,  and  put,  with  the 
Shells,  into  the  Pan  you  defign  the  Liquor  to 
cool  in;  ftir  |t  together,  and  cover  it  έβοtill 
cool,  thea  work  it  with  a  Toaft  and  Yeaft  ; 

and 


/ 


^o        A  CoJledhn  of  Receipts 

.^nd  in  ^wo  or  three  Days,  when  'tis  fettled, 
fine  it  off  into  your  Veffel  5  let  it  work  as 
longv  as  it  will  j  when  it  has  done  working, 
pour  in  a  Bottle  of  Rhenifh,  or  finall  White- 
wine,  and  ftop  it  up  for  fix  Months  ;  then, 
if  Tery  fine,  tottle  it,  and  keep  it  a  Twelve- 
month longer. 

Damafccn-Winc. 

'Tp  O  every  Gallon  of  Water,  put  two  Founds 
-**  and  a  half  of  Sugar,  which  you  muft  boil* 
and  fcum  three  quartets  of  an  Hour  ;  and  to 
every  Galldn,  put  five  Pints  of  Damafcens 
ftonM  ;  let  them  boil  till  'tis  of  a  fine  Colour, 
then  ftrain  it  thro*  a  fine  Sieve  ;  work  it  in 
an  open  Veffel  three  or  four  Days,  then  pour  . 
it  off  the  Lees,  and  let  it  work  in  that  Veffel 
as  long  as  it  will ;  then  ftop  it  up  for  fix  or 
eight  Months,  when,,  if  fine,  you  may  bottle 
it  ;  Keep  it  a  Year  or  two  in  Bottles.  * 

Cowflip  or  Marigold* Wine. 

nr  O  every  Gallon  of  Water,  take  two  Pounds 
^  and  a  half  of  Sugar,  boil  this  an  Hour, 
.and  fcuni  έΑλ  it  very  well^  and  pour  it  boiling- 
hot  upon  the  Yellow  Tops  of  cither  Sort  of  * 
'  Figwers :  To  every  Gallon  of  the  Liquor  put 
half  a  Peck  of  Flowers  nicely  cut  ;  let  this 
ftecp  all  Night,  and  to  each  Gallon  Iquecze  in ' 

two 


in  Cookery,  &c.  91 

two  or  three  Lemons,  with  a  Kccc  of  Peel 
cut  thin  :  When  thcfe  have  fteepM  a  Night 
and  a  Day,  work  it  with  a  Toaft  and  Yeaft  : 
When  you  put  it  in  your  Veffel,  pour  it  from 
the  Settlement  j  and  when  it  has  worked  as 
long  as  it  will,  pour  into  every  Gallon  one 
Pint  of  Rhenifti,  or  White-  -^'ne.  If  'tis  fine 
in  fix  Months,  you  pay  hot*  ^4  it,^  but  'tis 
beft  to  drink  at  three  'or  feur  Years  old. 
Either  Sort  is  cordial,  wholefome,  and  plea- 
fant. 

STo  Improve  Cycler,  and  make  it  per' 

feSilj/  Fine, 

WHEN  'tis  firft  made,  put  into  a  Hogs- 
head fix  Ounces  of  Brimftone  in  the 
Stone,  to  colour  it ;  put  a  Gallon  of  good 
French  Brandy  highly  tinftur'd  with  Cochi- 
neal ;  beat  one  Pound  of  AUum,  and  three 
Pounds  of  Sugar-candy  fine,  and  put  it  in, 
when  you  flop  it  up  :  Whtfn  'tis  fine,  bottle 
it,  which  will  be  in  fix  Months.  This  great 
Secret  is  fuccefsfully  praftis'd  by  the  Her^^ 
fordjhire  Artifts. 

^0  make  Milk-Punch. 

'TP  O  two  Qiiarts  of  Water,  put  two  Quarts 

έΑλ*     of  good  French  Brandy,  a  dozen  and  a 

half  of  LcmonSj  three  quarters  of  a  Pound  of 

double^ 


9 

pi-      J  Colk┬μim  ^f  Receipts 

dmible-refia'd  Sugar,  apd  three  Pints  of  new  > 
Milk  ;  mix  all  t<^ether,  and  ftrain  it  thro'  a 
}eUy-bag  j  put  it  up  often,  till  it  looks  per- 
fedly  clear  and  fin?.  You  muft  make  it  a 
Day  or  two  before  you  ufc  it ;  for  it  will  wi 
keep  Ibng  bottled. 


To  mflhjiron^  Mead, 


T 


O  foui  Gallons  of  Water,  put  eighteen 
Pounds  of  Honey  ;  beat  the  Whites  of 
four  Eggs,  ftir  them  in  with  the  Honey  till 
k  be  all  melted  ;  fcum  it  well  as  long  as  it 
boils,  and  be  fure  it  boil  an  Hour  and  a  half: 
If  you  like  the  Xafte,  you  may  put  a  Sprig 
of  Ri>femary  in  the  boiling;.  When  'tis  cold, 
work  it  with  a  Toaft  ipread  with  Yeaft  ;  and 
when  you  put  it  into  the  VelTel,  hang  there- 
in one  Nutmeg,  the  Weight  of  that  in  Mape, 
and  the  fame  Quantity  in  Gloves,  with  four 
Races  of  Ginger,  in  a  Piece  of  Muflin  ;  the 
Spice  muft  be  beaten ;  put  in  the  Pepl  of  two 
Lemons.  When  it  has  done  working,  flop 
it  up,  and  let  it  ftand  fix  Months,  before  yo^ 
bottle  it. 

To  f/tah  Goofebcrry-Wine. 

Tp  O  four  Pounds  of  Goofcberries  full  ripe, 
^    put  a  Quart  of  Water,  and  to  every  Gal- 
Ion  of  Water,  put  four  Pounds  of  Sugar  j 

bruifc 


'       l┬τ  Cookery,  Cfc.  ^f 

bruife  the  Goofebcrrics  well,  and  let  them 
ftand  in  the  Water  two  Days,  ftirring  it  twice 
or  thrice  a  Day,  and  then  ftrain  it  through  a 
┬μne  Hair  Bag  ;  theii  put  in  the  Sugar,  and' 
ftir  it  very  Well  'till  it  is  melted ;  When  it  is 
well  mix'd,  cover  it,  and  let  it  ftand  a  while  5 
then  ftrain  it  through  a  Flannel  Bag  into  the 
Veffel :  When  it  has  done  working,  ftop  it 
clofe,  and  let  it  ftand  fix  Weeks,  or  two 
Months,  and,  if  fine,  bottle  it. 

Nothing  of  Brafs  muft  be  ufed  about  any 
Wine. 

To  make  Elder-flower  Wine* 

HP  O  twelve  Gallons  of  Water,  put  thirty 
έΑλ*^  Pounds  of  (ingle  Loaf-Sugar,  boil  it  'till 
two  Gallons  be  wafted,  fcumming  it  well  j 
let  it  ftand  'till  it  be  as  cool  as  Wort,  then 
put  two  or  three  Spoonfuls  of  Yeaft ;  when  it 
\>^orfcs,  put  in  two  Quarts  of  Bloflbms,  pick'd 
from  the  Stalks,  ftirring  it  every  Day  'till  it 
has  done  working,  which  will  not  be  under 
five  or  fix  Days  ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  put  it 
into  the  Veffel :  After  it  is  ftopt  down,  let  it 
ftand  two  Months,  and  then,  if  fine,  bottle  it. 


ip4       -^  ColkSiion  of  Receipts 

To  make  Ratafia. 

TO  every  Gallon  of  Brandy,  put  a  Quart 
of  the  beft  Orange-flower  Water,  and  a 
Quart ofgoodi^r^/;^^ White-wine;  youmuft 
alfo  take  care  your  Brandy  be  right  and  good ; 
tojeach  Gallon  of  Brandy,  you  muft  likewifc 
put  four  hundred  Apricot-ftones,  and  a  Pound 
and  a  quarter  of  White  Sugar-candy  ;  juft 
crack  the  Stones,  and  put  them  in.  Shells 
and  ajl,  into  a  large  Bottle,  which  muft  be 
very  clofc  ftopp'd,  and  Ical'd  down  ;  let  it 
ftand  in  the  Sun  for  fix  Weeks ;  take  it  in 
every  Night,  and  in  wet  Weather ;  and  flbakc 
it  when  you  take  it  in,  or  fet  it  out :  After 
this  is  done,  you  muft  let  it  ftand  to  fettle, 
and  rack  it  oiGF,  till  'tis  perfcdly  fine.^ 

Cinnamon- Water,  very  good,     * 

TN  two  Gallons  of  extraordinary  Brandy, 
-*  fteep  a  Pound  of  good  Cinnamon  bruis'd, 
there  let  it  lie  thr^e  or  four  Days  ;  then  put 
it  into  your  Limbeck,  with  two  Quarts  of 
cold-ftill'd  Plantain- water  ;  you  may  draw 
as  much  off  as  you  put  in  ;  and  with  a  Quart 
of  the  fmalleft,  boil  up  two  Pounds  and  an 
half  of  double^ refin'd  Sugar :  When  'tis  cold, 
mix  all  together  ftr  your  Ufe.  'Tis  a  noble 
Cordial. 

^Cor* 


\ 


tn  Cookcryj  &ci  <^f 

A  Cordial  Orange* Water. 

TAKE  three  Quarts  of  good  Brandy,  and 
the  Rinds  of  a  dozen  and  a  half  of 
Oranges,  pare  them  very  thin,  that  none  of 
the  White  go  in,  let  them  ftecp  in  the  Brandy 
three  Days  and  Nights  clofe  ftopt ;  then  take 
five  Pints  of  fair  Water,  and  a  Pound  and  a 
half  of  double-refin'd  Sugar  :  Boil  this  Sy┬τ 
rup  half  an  Hour,  and  fcum  it  as  any  rifes  ^ 
then  ftrain  it  through  a  Jelly-bag,  and  let  i| 
Hand  'till  cold  ^  then  mix  it  with  the  Brandy^ 
which  muft  be  firft  pour'd  from  the  Peels^ 
and  fettled  :  Keep  it  for  Ufe. 

Thus  you  may  do  Lemons^  which  is  a  plea>; 
fanter  Cordial.  ^ 

To  make  Gtron^Water* 

TAKE  Citrons,  and  pare  c^  the  outward 
Rindi<^j2di┬μ^>a. Finger  thick,  flice  them 
thin ;  and  take  the  Citron  Kernels,  flice  them 
in  as  you  think  fit ;  put  as  much  good  Sack 
as  will  cover  them  over  the  Top  j  put  all  into 
a  Stone  Jug,  and  ftop  it  very  clofe  ;  let  it 
fiand  in  a  Cellar  five  Days,  then  diftil  it  in 
a  Glafs  Still ;  let  it  run  into  a  3ottle  wherein 
is  fine  Sugar  Candy  in  Powder,  and  Ambcr- 
greefe  :  Draw  off  in  fever al  Runnings,  and 
mix  it  as  you  like. 


$4       A  ColkBiah  of  kebetpts 
To  make  Spirit  of  Clary.* 

TAKE  a  Gallon  of  good  Sack,  a  Pint  6┬μ^ 
the  Juicif  of  Clary,  a  Pound  of  Clary- 
floWcrs,  as  many  Clove- July-flowers,  and 
half  as  many  Archangel-flowers,  as  many^ 
Conifry-flowers,  and  as  many  Flowers  of 
Lilies  of  the  Valley  ;  let  theft  fteep  in  the 
Sack  all  Night,  then  put  it  into  a  Glafs  Still  ^ 
the  (bfter  it  diftils,  the  ftronger  ^twill  be : 
YoU  mufl:  have  great  Care  to  keep  in  the 
Spirits,  by  pafting  the  Still  every  where  j  let 
k  drop  through  a  Bag  of  good  Amber-greeie 
upon  as  much  lifted  Whi^  Sugar-candy  af 
you  think  will  fwCeten  it.  Tis  a  very  high 
Cordial. 

To  make  Spirit  tj^  Cartways. 

nrO  a  Quart  of  true  Spirit  of  Sack,  ptit 
έΑλ*έΑλ  two  Pounds  of  good  imooth-fugar'd 
Caraways,  bruifethem,  and  put  them  into  a 
Bottle,  with  a  Grain  of  the  beft  Amber-grecfe ; 
pour  the  Spirit  on  them,  and  feal  the  Cork 
very  clofe  ;  fct  it  in  the  Sun  for  a  Month  j 
ftrain  it  off,  and  keep  it  always  clofe  ft6pt 
for  Ufe.  One  Spoonful  does  often  give  Eafe 
in  the  Cholick. 


A  Cor- 


^ 


in  Cookery^  &c.  ^f 

A  Cordial  Black-Cherry- Water,   ^ery 

'  good. 

np AKE  two  Quarts  of  ftrong  Claret,  and 

^   four  Pounds  of  Black- Ghferries  full  ripe, 

fiamp  them,  and  put  them  to  the  Wine,  with 

oneHarldfulofAngelica^oncHandfulofBalm, 
and  as  much  Carduus,  half  as  much  j^int^ 
and  as  many  Rofemary-flowers  as  you  can 
hold  in  both  your  Hands,  three  Hindfuls  of 
Clove- July-flowers,  two  Ounces  of  Cinnamon 
cut  fmall,  one  Ounce  of  Nutmegs  5  put  all 
thefe  into  a  deep  Pot,  let  them  be  well  ftirred 
together,  then  cover  it  fb  clofc  that  no  Air 
can  get  in ;  let  it  ftand  one  Day  and  a  Night  5 
then  put  it  into  your  Still,  which  you  muft 
alio  pafle  cloie  ;  and  draw  as  much  as  runs 
good ;  fweeten  it  with  Sugar^candy  to  your 
Tafte.  'Tis  good  in  any  Melancholy,  or  for 
the  Vapoursi 

A  very  Rich  Ghe'rry-CorAaL 

TAKE  a  Stone  Pot  th^t  has  a  broid  Bot- 
tom, and  a  narrow  Top,  and  lay  a  Layer 
of  Black  Cherries,  and  a  Layer  of  very  fine 
J)p\rderM  Sugar ;  do  this  'till  your  Pot  is  full : 
Meafure  your  Pot,  and  to  every  Gallon  it 
h6lds^  {Jut  i  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  true  Spirit 
of  Wine.  You  are  to  pick  your  Cherries  clean 

G  frott 


"  .'έΨι*έΑλ, 
M 


fjlI'S'fi!li&8i'i''5^=  ftopH 


-┬╗5- 


lU. 
- ┬τ 


L 


^pl|iltis|fN 


έΑλέΨιέΨι^'έΨι^'^^iftBiE^i^pSilan.  of 

┬╗Sf  igr  >>έΑλ-┬μ.  >J^i&^@Da$rs#^:  Borage 

^  eact\ 

thek 

>  Spirits 

Iff^ti^f  near 

.έΑη        _       _  ^   .   Ji^S'jIi,  wilh 

;  έΨι┬τ  T.  T     ^έΑλ:|:=|:^^:^  Jwat┬τ  i 


Sf 


loo     ACoUe^ion  of  Receipts 

Water  J  but  this,  and  the  reft  of  the  Spirits, 
muft  be  moft  carefully  ftopt  till  you  ufe  it : 
Take  Lavender-flowers  in  their  Seafon,  ftrip 
them  clean  from  their  Stalks,  and  fill  a  wide- 
mouth'd  Gallon  Glafs  with  them  ;  pour  into 
them  the  Remainder  of  your  Spirits  ;  then 
flop  them  clofe  with  Cork  and  Bladder  (as 
before)  and  let  them  ftand  fix  Weeks  |o  *di-^ 
gcft  in  the  Sun  ;  then  put  all  together,  thefe 
and  the  firft  fteep'd  Flowers,  with  all  the 
Spirits  in  both  Giafles  j  add  alfo  Balm,  Mo- 
thervrort,  Spike  -  flowers,   Bay -leaves  and 
Orange-leaves,   if  to  be  had,   cf  each  an 
Ounce,  cut  fmall,  and  put  to  the  former 
Flowers  and  Spirits  :    Diftil  all  thefe  toge- 
ther m  a  Limbecjc  ;    make  three  Rutinings 
of  it ;  firft  a  Quart  Glafs,  which  will  be  ex- 
ceeding ftrong  ;   then  a   Pint  Glafs,  which 
will  be  almoft  as  good  j  laftly,  receive  from 
it  a  Pint  Glais-ftill,  or  as  much  as  runs  ftrong ; 
for  when  it  runs  weak,  which  you  may  know 
by  ics  Tafte  and  Colour,    which  will   be 
whiter,  let  it  run  no  longer  :  Put  your  three 
Runnings  all  together  :  v  Then  take  Citron- 
peel,  the  out-fide  Yellow  Rind,  or  Lemon- 
peels  thin  pared,  alfo  Pine-feeds  hull'd^  of 
each  fix  Drams;  of  Cinnamon  one  Ounce ;  of 
Nutmegs,     Mace,    Cardimums,    Cucubies, 
and  Yellow  Sanders,  each  half  an  Ounce ;  of 
Lignum  Aloes  one  Dram  4  make  all  theie 
into  a  grofs  Powder,  putting  aoiong  them 

alfo 


m  Phyfick  and  Sargcry.      loi 

alfo  half  a  Pound  of  Jujubes  new  and  goody 
being  fton'd,  and  cut  fmall  :  Put  alt  thefc 
Ingredients  into  a  Vijbite  Sarfcnet  Bag,  to  be 
hung  in  the  Water  aforefaid  :  Take  alfo  of 
Prepared  Pearls,  two  Drams  ;  of  Prepared 
Smaragd,  a  Scruple  j  Amber-gre^efe,  Musk, 
and  Safl&on,  of  each  one  Scruple  ;  of  Red 
Rofes,  well  dry*d,  and  fweet,  one  Ounce  : 
Thefe  may  be  put  in  a  little  Bag  by  them- 
felves,  and  hung  in  the  Spirit  as  the  other  ; 
clofe  it  well,  that  no  Air  gets  in,  for  fix  Weeks  ; 
then  take  out  the  Water,  and  prefs  the  Bags 
dry  ;  keep  the  Water  in  narrQw-mouth*d 
Glaffes  clofe  ftopt. 

'I'he  life  of  the  Water. 

*Tis  fo  ftrong  and  powerful,  that  it  cannot 
be  taken  alone,  but  muft  be  dropt  on  Crumbs 
of  Bread  and  Sugar  by  any  one,  for  Preven- 
tion :  Take  it  firft  and  laft,  and  at  four  in 
the  Afternoon  :  Fail  always  before  and  aft^r 
it  a  full  Hour  at  leaft.  'Tis  of  exceeding 
Virtue  in  all  Swoonings,  Weaknefs  of  Heart, 
and  decay 'd  Spirits,  in  allPalfeys,  Apoplexies^ 
both  to  help  in,  and  prevent  a  Fit ;  'twill 
alfo  keep  all  cold  Difpofitions  off  the  Live!-, 
rcftores  loft  Appetite,  and  fortifies  and  ftrength- 
'  ens  the  Stomach ;  'twill  alone  cure  a  t)ropfy, 
if  taken  at  firft,  and  the  Patient  be  kept  from 
fmall  and  cooling  Liquors, 

G  3  Afe^ 


toi      A  Colk┬μiion  of  Receipts 

A  ficond  Palfcy-Water,  made  upon  the 
Ingredients  of  the  firjl. 

Vjj^HEN   the  firfl;  Water  has  run  what 
y^ ,    is  ftrong,  there  will  be  fome  fniall  Wa- 
ter' at  the  Bottom  of  the  Limbeck  j  pour  it 
put  from  the  Herbs  and  Flowers^  and  drain 
fhem  ^  put  them  into  a  Gallon  of  the  beft 
$herr.y  ;  fo  let  them  ftand  clofe  ftopp'd,  five 
Weeks  ;  then  diftil  them,  and  let  it  run  as 
long  as  it  continues  ftrong  ;  then  pour  it  into 
the  Glafs  where  the  Sarfenet-bags  are,  and. 
let   them   be   in   this   fecond   Liquor   clofe 
flopped  fix  Weeks  ;  then  you  may  ufe  it,  Ks 
the  former,,  with  Bread  and  Sugar  ;  for  tho^ 
this  is  not  {q  powerful  as  the  former,  'tis  too ' 
ilrong  to  take  alone.     Both  thefe  are  good  to 
bathf    outwardly    the    Part    affefted    with 
We^knefs  by  Palfy^  and  generally  help  any 
violent  Pains  or  Aches  that  any  Part  is  vex'd 
with  ;  but  becaufe  Bathing  waftes  moft,  and 
this  Sort  is  Icfs  coftly,  they  commoftly  qle 
this  fecond  Sort  for  that. 

r  ^ 

\ 
\ 

4  '^^^y  good  Snail- Water,  for  a  Con* 

:  fumption. 

'T^  A  KE  half  a  Peck  of  Shell-Snails,  wipe 

*έΨι    them,  and  bruile  them,  Shells  and  all, 

in  a  Mortar  ;  put  to  them  a  Gallon  of  new 

Milk  J   as  alfo  Bajm,  Mint,  Carduus,  unfet 

έΑλ       jlyflbp. 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery.       105 

Hyflbp,  and  Burragc,  of  each  one  Handful  ; 
Ratfins  of  the  Sun  fton'd,  Figs,  and  Dates, 
of  each  a  quarter  of  a  Pound ;  two  large  Nut- 
megs :  Slice  all  thefe,  and  put  them  to  the 
Milk,  and  diftil  it  with  a  quick  Fire,  in  a 
cold  Still  ;  this  will  yield  near  four  Wine- 
quarts  of  Water  very  good  :  You  muft  put 
two  Ounces  of  White  Sugar-candy  into  each 
Bottle,  and  let  the  Water  drop  on  it  ^  ftir 
the  Herbs  Ibmetimes,  while  it  diftils,  and 
keep  it  covered  on  the  Head  with  wet  Cloths. 
TaKc  five  Spoonfuls  at  a  time,  firft  and  laft, 
and  at  four  in  the  Afternoon.  ┬╗ 

A  good  Water  for   the  Spleen  ;    a 

Cordial. 

T^AKE  four  Ounces  of  Harts-horn,  one 
-*-  Ounce  of  Cardimums,  one  Ounce  of 
Cinnamon,  one  Ounce  of  Saffron,  twoHand- 
fuls  of  Red  Sage,  as  much  Balm ;  fteep  thefc 
twenty-four  Hours  in  two  Quarts  of  Sack,  or 
as  much  good  Brandy,  which  you  pleafe  \ 
diftil  it  in  a  cold  Still  as  quick  as  you  can, 
and  let  it  drop  on  four  Ounces  of  Sugar-can- 
dy.    Drink  of  this,  when  low-fpirited. 

A  gaod  W^ter  for .  the  Stone. 

nPAKE   four  Quarts   of  WhVe  Thorn- 

-*έΑλ     flowers,  infufe  them  .in   two  Quarts  of 

ftrong  White-wine,  with  two  Ounces  of  Nut- 


G  4 


meg 


1 04       A  CoJle^ion  of  Receipts 

meg  flicM  ;  let  thefe  ftand  two  Day$,  then 
cjiftil  it  in  a  cold  Still.  Drink  it  with  Sugar, 
or  without,  as  you  like  beft. 

ji  Drink  for  any  Inward  Bruife  or 

Wound. 

TA  K  E  one  Handful  of  each  of  tbe  Herbs 
following,   viz.  Wprmwood,    Comfrey, 
Throatwort,  Wood-Betohy,   Plantain,  Mug- 
^vort,    Bonewort,    Scabious,    Avens,    Wild 
Honey-iiickic,     Agrimony,      Bramble-buds, 
Cinquefoil,    Spearmint,  Sanicle,  White-bot- 
tle, Ribwort,   Daify-roots,    Dandelion,  Bu- 
glols,  Hauthorn-buds  ;  Put   to  thefe  Herbs 
two  Quarts  of  White-wine,  and  a  Gallon  of 
running  Water,  and   boil   it   till  it  he  half 
wafted  ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  add  to  it  a  Quart 
of  Honey  ;  let  that  boil  in  the  Liquor  fome 
.time  :  When  'tis  cold,  bottle  it  very  clofe, 
j^nd   keep  it   for  Ufe.     'Twill   keep   many 
Years,  and  is  neceJTary  for  ^U  Families  j  two 
or  three  Spoonfuls  of  it  taken  Morning  and 
I^ight.     'Tis  really  good  for  Sores,  Wounds, 
and  Hurts   new  or  old,  in  Men,    Women, 
^nd  Children  :  Its  Virtues  of  that  kind  are 
too  long  to  mention  :    It  has   broken   and 
brought  away  inward  Impofthumes, 


Ji^ 


-  _-tj 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery.       loy 

Jn  esCceJJent  Balfam,  caJrd^  The  Fryers 

Ballam. 

npAKEa^art  of  Spirit,  of  Sack,  infufc 
'^    in   it    four  Ounces   of  Sarfaparilla  cut 
fliort,  two  Ounces  of  Chiffa  flic'd  thin,  one 
Ounce  of  Firghia  Snake- weed  cut  finall  ; 
put  all  thefe  in  a  two-quart  Bottle,  and  fet  it 
m  the  Sun,  Ihaking  it  twice  or  thrice  a  Day, 
till  the  Spirit  be  tindur'd  as  Yellow  as  Gold  ; 
then  clear  off  the  Spirit  into  another  Bottle, 
and  put  to  it  eight  Ounces  of  Gum  Guaice  ; 
fet  it  in  the  Sun,  as  before,  ftiaking  it  very 
often,  till  all  the  Gum  be  diffolv'd,  except 
Dregs,  which  will  be  in  ten  or  twelve  Days; 
then  clear  it  a  fccond  time  from  the  Dregs, 
find  put  to  it  one  Ounce  of  Natural  Balfam 
pf  P^ru  J  fliake  it  well  together,  and  fet  it  in 
the  Sun  for  two  Days  ;    then   put  in  one 
Ounce  of  Balm  of  Gilead  ;  ftiake  all  well  to- 
gether once  more,  and  let  it  in  the  Sun  for  a 
Fortnight ;  'tis  then  fit  for  Ufe,  and  will  keep , 
many  Years,     Its  Virtues  are  too  long  to  in- 
fert  :  'Tis  good  to   take  inwardly   in  moft 
Diftempers,     and   proper   for   all    Sores   or 
Wounds,    by  pouring  in  fome  Drops,  and 
binding  Lirit  thereon.     The  Dofe,  t^ken  in- 
wardly, is  from  half  a  Spoonful  to  a  whole 
one,    in  Sugar,    or  any  liquid  Vehicle,  for 
Confumptions,   or  any  inward  Ulcer  :    Ufe 
moderate  Exercife  with  it. 


10^      A  Collet  ion  cf  Receipts 

Jin  Oil  for  any  Bruife  or  Wound. 

nPAKE  of  the  tender Yom  of  the  Bay- 
-έΨιέΑλ  Tree,  Red  Sage,  Lavrader,  Worm- 
wood, Plantain,  Rue,  Tormcntil,  Scabious, 
Comfrcy,  Broom,  Rape,  Ofmond-royal, 
Southernwood^  Caniomile,  Charity,  St.  John's- 
wort,  SQlomon-fcal,  Amber,  Rbfcmary, 
Adders-fpear,  Goldcn-Rtoci,  Herb- Robert, 
Ground-pine,  Sanicle,  and  Bugle,  of  each 
one  Handful  j  ffired  all  thefe  very  fmall,  and 
infufe  them  in  one  Quart  of  Oil-Olive,  and 
three  Pints  of  Neat-Oil  ;  ftop  them  clofe  in 
a  Glafs  Veffel,  and  let  them  ftand.tcn  or 
twelve  Days  in  the  Heat  of  the  Sun  ;  ftir 
them  every  Night,  when  you  take  them  in  : 
After  this,  boil  it  over  a  gentle  Fire,  till  the 
Oil  is  green;  then  ftrain  it  clear  from  the 
Herbs,  and  add  to  the  Oil  again  half  a  Hand- 
ful of  the  Herbs,  as  before,  ftired,  with  one 
Ounce  of  Oil  of  Turpentine,  one  Ounce  of 
Natural  Balfam,  and  one  Ounce  of  Oil  of 
Worms  :  Digelt  all  in  the  ^ Sun.  as  before  ; 
boil  and  ftrain  it,  and  keep  it  dole  ftopp'd  for 
Ofe.     It  muft  be  made  in  May.  ' 

j4  Salve  for  the  KingVEviK 

T^AKE  one  Pint  of  the  belt  Sallad-Oil, 

έΑλ*έΑλ     four  Ounces  of  Red  Le^d  finely /povv- 

der'd,   as  much  White  Lead,  one  Ounce  of 

Bees- 


┬τ .  N 


έΨι┬τ  w 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery.      107 

Bees-wax  thinly  flic*d,  of  Frankincenfe  and 
the  belt  Mafticfc  each  one  Ounce,  of  Bur- 
gundy Pitch  two  Ounces  ;  let  all  be  beaten  ; 
boil  the  Oil  and  Leads  ^me  little  time  to- 
gether  over  a  gentle  Fixe  ;  keep  the  Oil  ftir- 
ring,  while  you  add  the  Wax ;  then  boil  thefc 
together  for  half  an  Hour,  ftirring  it  conftant- 
ly  :  Take  it  off  the  Fire,  and  ftir  it  till  the 
Heat  is  abated  ;  then  add  your  Maftick,  and 
keep  it  from  the  Fire,  till  it  has  done  worfc-# 
ing  :  Boil  it  gently  again,  and  put  in  your 
Frankincenfe,  ftirring  it  oflf  the  Fire,  as  you 
did  before;  fet  it  on  again,  and  then  add  the 
Burgundy  Pitch,  as  before,  with  Care  ;  then  * 
boil  all  together,  till  it  looks  like  Pitch  ;  ftir 
it  till  cold  :  Leave  your  Stick  in  the  Middle, 
and  the  next  D^y  fet  it  on  the  Fire,,,  to  melt 
the  Edges  ;  then  take  it  out,  and  keep  it  iu 
an  oird.Papqr  for  Ufe.     Let  the  Party  afflided 
fpread  a  Plamer  as  *  big  as  the  Swelling  is, 
and   apply  it :  If  it  gather  to  a  Head,  and 
break,   after  you  have  wafti'd  the  Wound 
with  warm  Vinegar,    apply  fome  Lint  roird 
in'  an  equal  Qiiantity  of  the  Salve  warm'd, 
and  Honey  ;   fpread  a  Plaifter  of  the  Salve, 
and  when  the  Corruption  is  out,  that  will 
heal  it.     'Tis  incomparable,  and  fafely  may 
be  ijs'd  for  any  Swelling. 


J  Drink 


io8     A  Colh^ion  of  ReceipH 
A  Drink  for  the  EviU 

TAKEof  White  Arch-angel,  tv^roHand. 
fob  y  of  outlandifh  fweet  Fennel-fccd 
l)f  ms^dy  oneOiince ;  of  Liquorice,  one  Ounce: 
Boil'  th┬τfe  together  in  two  Wine-quarts  of 
έΨι  S|)ring- Water  ;  flop  it  clofe,  till  half  be  con- 
fom.y  J  when  cold,  ftrain  it  from  the  Ingre- 
rffcnte  ;  add  to  the  Liquor  two  Ounces  of  Da>. 
]na<sk  Rofes  :  Let  the  Party  drink  of  this 
LtqoQf^  Spring  and  Fall,  five,  feven,  or  nine 
Days  together,  as  you  bcft  find  it  agrf e, 
thrct:  rimes  in  the  Day,  a  quarter  of  a  Pint, 
fiift  ;knd  laft,  atid  at  four  in  the  Afternoon^ 

A  Drink  for   the  KingVEvil^  and 

Gancer* 

TAKE.Guaiacum,  one  Ounce;  Saffafras, 
Sarfapaiilla,  (harp^pointed  Dock,  and 
Daiijr-Roots,  of  each  half  an  Ounce  ;  Arch- 
angel Flowers,  and  Millepedes,  of  each  two 
large  SpocHifuls  ;  Ground-Ivy,  and  Herb* 
Robert,  of  each  one  Handful :  Bruife  and 
"  fined  ait  thefe  Ingredients,  and  put  them  to 
ftcep  one  Night  in  three  Pints  of  good  clear 
new  Ate ;  ftrain  it,  and  drink  no  other 
Drink  for  fix  Weeks,  Spring  and  Fall.  .  You 
may  do  a  larger  Quantity  at  a  time,  for  IVfan 
or  Womaa  j  but  you  muft  not  infufe  too 
inuch  at  a  time,  becaufe  the  Rerbs  are  ape 

to 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery^       i  o;^ 

lo  change  it.  At  the  fame  time,  if  the  Swel- 
lings arc  painful,  anoint  with  ^uke  cfRm^ 
prepared  as  follows. 

An  Ointment  for  the  Swellings  i┬τ  tin 

KingVEvil. 

nPAKE  two  Spoonfuls  of  Juke  of  Rue, 
έΑλ*-  as  much  Sallad-Oil,  beat  them  well  to- 
gether J  then  fct  it  over  the  Fire,  and  let  k 
boil  flowly  half  an  Hour  j  add  two  Ounces 
of  Bees- wax,  let  it  boil  a  1  ittle. with  this  : 
Pour  it  out,  and  keep  it  clofe  covered  *Tis 
an  incomparable  Ointment  to  ufc  all  the 
Time  you  take  the  Diet-drink. 

A  Milk- Water  for  Cancer  or  KingV 
Evil,  for  thofe  that  cannot  drink  am 
Infujion.. 

T^  A  K  E    Roots  of  Daifics,    Burdock, 

έΑλ*έΨι  Guaiacum,Saflafras,Sarfaparilla,  China, 
Toriiientil,  and  Hounds-topguc,  each  two 
Ounces ;  Celendine,  Yarrow,  Plantain,  Herb  * 
Robert,  Agrimony,  Speedwcl,  Ground-Iyy,' 
and  Cinquefoil,  of  each  a  large  Handful  ; 
Arch-angel-flowers,  one  Pint ;  Sweet-fennel 
and  Coriander-feeds,  of  each  one  Ounce  ; 
Shred  and  bruife  all,  and  put  them  to  a 
Gallon  of  Milk  :  Draw  off  as  much  as  runs 
good,  and  drink  daily  a  quarter  of  a  Pint 

every 


1 10      A  ColkSiiow  of  Receipts 

every  four  Hours :  Into  each  Draught  fqucezcJ 
the  Juice  of  a  fmaD  Spoonful  of  Millepedes. " 

An  Ointment  for  the  Evil,  or  Rickets* 

np  A  K  E  Leaves  of  Ofmond-royal,  Si. 
έΑλ*έΑλ  John's-wort^  Woormwood,  Centaury, 
White  Hore-hound,  Germander,  Ground  Pine, 
Golden-rod,  Carduus,  Southernwood,  Camo- 
mile,  Tanfy,  Penny- royal,  Sage,  Mint,  Rue, 
Lilies  of  the  Valley,  Angelica,  Meadow-Saxi- 
frage, of  each  an  Ounce ;  ftired  it  fmall,  and 
add,  of  Oil,  one  Quart ;  Deer-fuet,  and  Cla- 
ret, of  each  one  Pint  j  Mace,  one  .Ounce  1 
Boil  thefe  till  all  the  watry  Part  is  confuni'd : 
Strain  it,  and  anoint  the  Belly  ^nd  Joints 
with  it  all  the  Spring  and  Fall.  This  has 
done  great  Cures  on  Weakly  Children. 

For  a  Strain. 

TJ  U  T  the  Arm  or  Leg  into  a  Pail  of  cold 
^  Spring-water,  and  keep  it  there  till  the 
Water  be  warm  j  then  take  it  out,  and  re- 
'peat  it  'till  it  be  well,  which  it  will  be  with- 
out applying  any  other  Remedy. 


I    ' 


jiGood 


in  Phyiick  and  Surgery.      1 1 1 
A  Good  Powder  far  Worms* 

npAKE  an  Ounce  of  Worm-feed,  and  half 
-έΨι^  an  Ounce  of  Rhubarb,  beat  both  to  a 
fine  Powder,  and  take  a  quartet  of  an  Ounce 
of  Powder  of  prepared  Coral ;  mix  all  three 
together,,  and  let  the  Child  t^kc  as  much  of 
this  as  will  lie  on  a  Shilling,  for  three  Morn- 
ings together,  drinking  aGlafsof  fmall  warm 
Ale  aftpr  each  Dofc. ,  ┬╗ 

Another  Powder  for  the  Worms. 

T^  AKE  an  Ounce  of  Sena,  a  quarter  of  an 
-*-  Ouhcc  of  whole  Worm-feed,  a  quarter 
of  an  Ounce  of  Tanfy-fced,  a  quarter  of  an 
Ounce  of  Anifecd,  a  few  Leaves  of  Wood- 
Betony  ;  dry  all  thcfe,  and  beat  them  to- 
gether very  fine  ;  mW  it  into  a  Bolus  with 
Syrup  of  Turnips.  A  Child  of  nine  Years 
old  oiay  take  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce  of  this 
Mixture  ;  fo,  lefs  or  more,  for  any  other 
Age,  Drink  Water-gruel  or  PofTct-drink 
in  the  Working.  ^Tis  good  for  Men  or  Wo- 
men, as  well  as  Children. 

For  Worms. 

BRUISE  a  Pound  of  Worm-feed,  and  put 
it  into  a  large  Still  full  of  Spear>mint, 
draw  it  off  as  long  as  it  runs  good :  Let  the 

Child 


1 


112     A  ColhSitcn  of  Receipts 

Child    drink  three  Spoonfuls   of  this   nih^ 
Morn  ings  together. 

r 

For  the  fame, 

έΨι 

ONE  Drop  of  Oil  of  Brimftone  in  a  little 
warm  Ale,  for  three  Mornings  together. 
Do  not  exceed  one  Drop  for  a  Child  j  three 
are  enough  for  a  Man  or  Woman. 

For  the  fame. 

TO  four  Pounds  of  the  Husks  of  Wall- 
nuts,  put  half  a  Pound  of  Worm-feed , 
and  as  much  Flour  of  Brimftone  :  Draw  it 
off  in  a  cold  Still,  and  let  a  Tea^cup  be 
taken  every  Morning  for  a  Month.  'Tis  an 
excellent  Medicine  for  Wormsy  or  Jaundice^ 
and  has  done  great  Cures. 

For  the  fame. 

TAKE  one  Handful  of  Spear-mint,  Hi 
much  Plantain,  as  much  Goats  Rue,  a 
Spoonful  of  Plantain-feeds  :  Stamp  all  toge- 
ther, and  fqueeze  out  the  Juice,  and  take' 
two  Spoonfuls  of  it  in  a  Glafs  of  Sack,  thretf 
Mornings  together*  ^ 


]^0t 


iff  Phy/Ick  iuid  Surgeiy.'     115 
^or  the  fame  ^    well  recommended^ 

tJUSK,    and   dry  ah  Ounce  of  Smile 
*έΨι- "^  Orange-iceds,  beat  them  tb  a  fihe  PoW-^ 

έΑλ  der,  iand  give  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a  Six- 
pence,   in  a  Spoonful  of  Syfiip  of  Peacti-   , 
bloflfoms  \  at  the  lame  time  bihd  the  Leaves 

έΑλof  the  Peach-tree  to  the  Navel  of  thle  Child. 
If  you  havb  hd  Syrup  of  Peach-bloffoms,  tife 
Syrtip  of  Black  Cherries. 

^is  Red  Pbwder,  /or  tevcrs,  Smalt^ 

Pox,  or^urfeics. 

TAKE  of  Carduus,  Rue,  Red  Sagd,  Li*^ 
lies  of  the  Valley,  Tormentil,  Pimper- 
nel, DragOQ,  Betony,  Angelica,  Scabious^ 
j3peedwel,  of  each  one  Handful ;  Virginia;- 
~^hake-weed,  one  Handful ;  Wormwood,  half 
a  Handful ;  Agrimony,  and  Verum,  of  each 
a  quarter  of  a  Handful :  Shred  the  Herbs  very 
fmall,  and  iftfufe  them  in  two  Quarts  of 
White-witoe,  in  a  Jug,  Which  you  muft  fto|> 
very  clofc,  and  fet  nine  Days  in  the  Sun  : 
Then  ftrain  the  Wine  -from  the  Herbs,  and 
in^hrfe  the  fanac  Quantity  of  frefli  Herbs  in 
the  fame  Wine;  letit  ftahd,  as  before,  nine 
[Days  more  :  Then  take  a  Pound  of  Bole- Ar-^ 
moniack  finely  powdtf'd  j  then  put  as  mCich 
of  thέΓυ  Wine  (after  it  is  a  fecond  time  prefs'd 
out)  as  the  Powdcir  will  take  up,  and  fct  it 

H  ia 


έΑλ  * 


1 14     A  OfSe^eu  of  Recei^s 

in  the  Sun  to  dry ;  and  as  it  dries  up^  pm 
in  inore  of  the  Wine,  ftirrio^  it  two  or 
ifytec  times  a  Day^  'till  lU  the  Wmc  be 
dry'd  up  in  the  Powder,  fo  as  to  be  fit  to 
work  like  Faile  :.  Then  put  to  it  cme.OHBbe 
of  DiiAorditim^  and  one  Ounce  <if  Mkhr4- 
date,  half  an  Ounce  of  Cochinealy  one  Ounce 
of  Powder  of  Red  Coral^  one  Ounce  of  pfe* 
par'd  Saffiron,  forty  Grains  of  Be^oai-^  6nc 
Ounce  of  Powder  of  Crabs-i-eyes^  one  X>unce 
of  burnt  Harts-horn^  and  one  Ounce  of 
prepar-d  Pearl :  Mix  tbefe  in  the  laft  Wet- 
ring,  and  work .  them  all  together  :  Make 
them  up  in  Balls,  (when  weO  mixM)  and 
4iry  them  in  the  Sun.  Take  forty  or  !fifty 
Grains  of  this  for  a  Doie.  Dridk  Mace-Ale 
after  it 

XJf  Gafcdign  Powder,    a  good  Sort  fbt 

the  fame  Ufes. 

TAKE  prej>ar-d  Crabs^eyes,  K^Coraf, 
Wt^te  Amber  very  finely  powderld,  <k 
each  half  an  Ounce ;  burnt  Harts-^om^  half 
an  Ounce  ;  one  Ounce  of  Peark  yery  fiimiy 
fowder'd  ;  one  Ounce  of  Oflbntal  Besoar  ; 
of  the  Black  Topa  of  Qratbs-ciaws  finely 
powder'd,  hya  Ounces  ;  grind  all  tbefe  ┬τxi 
a  Marbk  Stoi^e,  'till  they  o^ft  a  Gceeaifli  Co┬τ- 
lour^  then  ma^.  it  intQ'BaUa  with  Jelly  made 
of  E┬╗giyb  Vipers  Skin,  wht^h  ^ay  be  fiaiadc^ 
and  will  jcUy  ii|w  Ham-^rn. 

jl  very 


in  Phyfick  and  Siugery.      1 1  f 

A  very  good  Powder  for  a  Dizzinefe  iji 
the  Head,  and  to  prevent  Ap6plcc- 
ckk  Fics. 

TAKE  the  Seeds  and  Hoots  of  fingle  Fi- 
έΑλ  ony,  of  each  a  like  Quantity  ;  dry  and 
beat  them  ieyerally  into  a  fine  Powder ;  take 
the  Weight .  in  Nutmegs  which  you  muft 
beaty  and  dry,  and  beat  again  ;  mix  fine- 
fifced  Sugar,  and  take  asr  much  as  will  lie  on 
a  Shilling  every  Morning  for  a  ^nth  con- 
llantly.  .  . 

A  Powder  to  fiop  the  Hickvip  in  Mah^ 

Woman^  or  Child. 

PUT  as  much  Dill-feed,  fipety  powder'd^ 
as  will  lie  on  a  Shilling,  into  two  Spoonr 
fuls  of  Syrup  of  Black  Cherries,  and  take  it 
prefently. 

An  Excellent  Powder  /or  Convulfion- 

Fits. 

TP  A  K  E  two  Drams  of  Piony-roots ;  Mif- 
*  ^  letoe  of  the  Oak,  one  Dram  5  prepared 
Pearl,  Whfte  Amber  prepared,  and  Coral 
prepared,  of  each  half  a  Dram ;  Bezoar,  two 
.Grains  ;  and  five  Lea veis  of  Gold  ;  make  all 
thele  into  a  veryjfine  Powder,  and  give  as 

H  2  much 


11 6     A  Cdkdtm  of  Reeeipfs 

much  of  it  as  will  lie  on  a  Tlirce-pencc,  to 
a  Chil(]  of  ^jMonth  ola^  and  proportionabte 
to  a  bigger  ;  mix  it  up  with  a  Spoonful  of 
Black-diCTry  Water,  which  fweeten  with  the 
Syrup  of  Black  Cherries  :  Take  it  three  Days 
together,  at  every  Change  o^the  Moon,  to 
prevcrjit  Returns^ 

9  έΑλ  *. 

'  ui  powder  for  Digeftiori. 

np  A  K  E  Grflingal,  and  Setwal,  of  each  one 
*  Ounce ;  ^Long-Pcppcr,  Mace,  and  Nut- 
meg, of  each  two  Ounces  ;  Anifeeds,  Car- 
raway-fecds,  Fennel-feeds,  and  Angelica- 
fteds^  -of  -e^ch  half  an  Oiince  :  Put  to  thefe, 
all  finely  powdered,  the  Weight  in  line 
powdered  Sugar ;  take  as  much  as  will  lie 
on  a  Shilling,  after  every  Meal ;  and  drink 
a  Glals  of  Siftiple  Carduus  Water  after  it  : 
This  has  done  mighty  Cures  to  weak  depravM 
Stomachs. 

T        _    r      έΑλ  "  * 

A  ^refent  Remedy  for  Convulfion-Fits. 

IL/f  AK35  a  DfaiTght  qt  an  equal  Quantity  , 
f-^^  ojf  PAftoy^  anc^  Simple  Black-cherry 
yVatcr  J  :gnd';,for  a^Man  put  :thirty,  for  a 
?yV>man  twpnty,  for  a  Cfeild .  five,  Drops  of 
Spirit  of  Har^s-horn  ;  Prink  this  in  or  before 
a  Fit.  /     i       '        ,  :  '       . 

j4nother 


έΑλ* ┬╗  ' 


f┬τ  Phyfick  ^ff  Surgery.       117 


O'.    I  έΑλ      έΨιέΨι  έΨιέΨι  έΑλ:!  f; 


Another  for  the  fam, 


f    ┬τ 


TNFUSE  Turnips  in  a  Pot  clbfe  flbpp'4, 
έΨι*-  and  fet  thcpa  in  a  Kettle  of  Water,  'till 
they  are  tendear  enough  to  fqueezc  ;  then 
take  the  Liquor  clear  from  them  ;  and  take 
three  Spoonfuls  of  it,  in  one  Spoonful  of  rich 
Old  Malaga ;  It  has  cur'd  the  FalUng-Sick- 
nels  in  grown-up  People,  but  is  almoft  inr 
fallitle  for  Children.  ^ 

A  Syrup  for  Convulfipn-Fits. 

nPAKE  one  Pint  of  fmall  Black-cherry 
*  Water,  two  Pounds  of  Black  Cherries  'j 
brujfe  them,  Stones  and  all,  in  a  Mortar ; 
pUjt  thefc  with  the  Water  into  a  Jug,  with 
two  Blades  of  Mace,  and  four  Tops  of  ^ear- 
mint  ;  ftop  the  Jug  clofc^  and  let  it  into  a 
Kettle  of  Water  ;  let  it  fimmcr  three  Hours 
over  the  Fire  j  then  ftrain  ft  oi|t,  and  let  it 
be  boird  to  a  Syrup,  with  a  full  Pound  and 
half  of  Usbm  Sugar,  to  each  Pint  of  tlidt 
έΑλLiquor.  * 

For  ConyulfiooSj;  or  Vertigo.       . 

TAKE  one  Ounce    of  Juniper- Berries  ; 
two  Ounces  of  frcfti  Seville  Orange-peel ; 
Male-Piony  Roots,  three  Ounces  ;  Peacocks 
Dung,  fix  Ounces;  Sugar-candy,  half  a  Pound : 
lofuie  thcfe  in  two  Quarts  of  Rhcnilb,   for 
-     ^    ^  H  3  twenty*' 


twenty-four  Houif^  in  hot  Alhes ;  then  lee 
it  fettle  ;  and^^ke  twoSpcxa^uls  of  this  in  a 
Glafs  of  Aqgelica- water.'  It  has  done  great 
Cures. 

A  Strong  Milk-Water. 

TAKE  Mint,  Sage,  and  Balm,  of  czfAi 
two  good  Handfuls  ;  Rue,  Carduus^ 
Wormwood,  and  Meadow-fweet,  of  each 
one  Handful ;  chop  thefe  Herbs  together ; 
and  put  them,  with  four  Qioarts  of  New 
Milk,  and  a  whole  Nutmeg  flicM,  into  a 
Copper  Limbeck ;  from  this  Quantity  you 
l^ay  draw  jtwo  Quarts,  if  you  fcpcp  an  even 
f\oyf  Fire,  'till  that  Quantity  is  drawn  off : 
Whei)  you  have  drawn  off  what  you  defign, 
xnix  it  aU  together,  for  the  Ufe  of  any  Fever- 
iih  or  Coofumptive  Peribn. 

Xh9  Baricy  Cinnamon^ Waters 

OUT  ^wo  Poonds  pf  Pearl  Barky,  into 
έΑλ*έΨι  four  Quarts  of  Spring- Water  ;  dra^y  it, 
off  in  a  cold  Still,  as  lopg  as  it  runs  fweet.; 
infufe  in  it  half  a  Pound  of  Cinnamon,  and 
a  Quart  of  Canary  :  Swec<ei>  it,  and  drink 
a  Draught  at  any  time,  in  a  Fever  and 
Looienc]&. 


Wall- 


έΨιr      1 

ft  *  έΨι 

0  έΨι*' 


I  . 


┬τ 

GATHER  a  hrgc  Qpantity  of  Green 
WallDuts^  ia  ihe  Segi;iD┬τ)g  of  y^/^^  ^ 
l^reak  (hem  ia^a  M<┬╗Car,  ^d  dil^thm  in  a 
^old  Sdll ;  keep  this  Wati^  by  i^l^  aed  at 
MjdTucoiinef  dp  the  likse,  keepii^  thtf  Watist 
by  itielf  al┬μ> ;  about  a  Fdrtoigl^.  afles  Mid^ 
fumixief  do  tbe  like ;  ^tid  ┬μ>  again  a  Foiioi^l: 
after  that;  then  put  all  the  louf  Scif  ts*  ol* 
Water  together^  and  djfltl.  it  off  ^  keep  it 
cloie  for  U&  :  Its  Ferfcdiostf  ^rtit  many  ;  'tis 
good  in  Gonfumptions  and  Surfeiti  }  drank 
with  Wioe  in  a  Mornings  'ti^  good  ibr  a 
Palfcy ;  a  Beetle  or  two  in  a  Veffel  of  decay  1j 
Wme,  revive  it  5  it's  good  to  walh  the  Eyes 
and  Temples;  1  have  not  met  with  any- 
Simple  Water  fo  well  recommended,  01;  by 
a  Pcrlbn  of  more  Experience.  * 

A  very  good  Snail- Water. 

TAKE  ^Pecfc  of  Snails  elcan  wip'd,* 
crack  them,  and  put  them  into  a  Gallon 
of  Milk,  with  a  Handful  of  Balm,  as  much 
Mint,  and  unfet  Hyflbp,  half  a  Pound  of 
Dates,  as  many  Figs,  and  one  Found  of 
Kaifins  of  the  Sun  ^  diftil  all  together,  and 
let  it  be  the  conftant  Drink  in  a  Confumptibn* 


H  4  *  jigooS 


1 20      A  Colk^ion  cf  Remits 

m 

I 

A  good  Milk-- Water  for  a  Surfeit,  or 

Worms. 

npAKE  of  Rue^  Wormwood,  Garduus, 
i*  and  Mint^  each  three  Handfuls  :  cut 
the  Herbs^  and  fteep  them  all  Night  in  two 
Quarts  of  Milk;  diftil  it  off  next  Mo;rmng 
ki 'a  cold  Still;  from  this  Quantity  draw 
three  Finds;  then  diftil  this  Water  over  again, 
with  the  fame  Quantity  of  Milk  and  Herbs  ; 
fweeten  it  to  your  Tafte,  i┬μ  for  Children  ; 
but  for  grown  Pcojple,  'tis  bcft  ialone. 

StronpEldct'htttyW^tcr. 

T^AKE  a  J^uihel  of  Elder-berries,  and 
put  to  them  a  Quart  of  Ale-yeaft  ;  let 
them  iiand  nine,  or  ten  Days,  ftirring  it  tWO 
or  three  times  a  Day,  and  then  diftil  it  \r\  a 
Limbeck  :  'Tis  a  very  good  Cordial  in  any 
lllnefi. 

ji  Cordial  Mint- Water. 

^  έΑλ  .  έΑλ  έΑλ  . 

TAKE  one  Pound  of  Mint,  ftripp'd  from 
the  Stalks,  and  gatherM  the  Day  be- 
fore you  weigh  it ;  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of 
Liquorice,  thin  flic'd ;  one  Ounce  of  Ani- 
feeds ;  one  Ounce  of  Carraway-feeds ;  oq? 
Pound  of  Raifins  of  the  Sun  ftbn'd  :  Steep 
thefe  together,  in  a  Gallon  of  good  ftrong 

Claret; 


-^ 


in  Phy fick  andSargtty.       i if 

Claret;  diftilitoffinaLimbecki  or  cold  Still; 
if  you  don't  like  it  fo  hot  and  ftrong,    let  it 
difop  on  a  little  fine  Sugar,    thro'  a  Bag  of  ^ 
3aflfron. 

A  good  Milk- Water.' 

TAKE  one  Pound  of  Carduus,  half  a 
Pound  of  Wormwood,  Spear-mint, 
Balm  fhred  a  little  ;  put  them  into  an  ordi- 
nary Still,  with  a  Gallon  of  Milk  ;  and  diftil 
it  off  Icifurely  :  'Tis  good  in  any  Thirft. 

Another  Milk^  Water. 

CJARDUUS,  and  Wormwood,  of  each 
f  one  Handful ;  Spear-mint,  rwo  Hand- 
fuls  :  Pick  and  cut  the  Herbs,  and  pour  upon 
them  a  Pint  of  Sack  ;  let  them  ftand  all  Night, 
and  next  Day  put  them  into  a  cold  Still,  with 
a  Gallon  of  New  Milk,  or  New  Whey  cla- 
rify'd  :  Draw  off  while  it  runs  good. 

A  mofi  excellent  Drink  for  the  KingV 

Evil  in  the  Eyes. 

.  HP  A  K  E  Sage,  Celendine,  Yarrow,  Beto- 
*  ny,  thrce-leav'd  Grafs,  Cinquefoile, 
Daify-joots  and  Leaves,  of  each  a  Handful  ; 
Honcy-luckles,  and  Grouiid-Ivy,  the  fame 
Quantity:  Pick,  walh,  dry,  and bruife them, 
gnd  put  to  them  a  Quart  of  good  White-wint, 

or 


i;22       A  CoJle^hn  ef  Reee^ts 

or  Beer  ;  !Rtcp  them  two  K%hts  and  Days  ;, 
prels  the  Herb$  onty  and  drink  four  Spoon^ 
^  falsy  Morning  and  Night  ;  juft  as  you  drink 
it,  fqueeze  in  the  Juice  of  fifty  Millepedes, 
┬μreih  bruised. 

A  good^  Ccrc-Cloth. 

np  AKE  one  Pint  of  Oil  of  Olives  ;  eight 
-έΨι*  Ounces  of  Red  Lead  ;  Virgins-wax, 
four  Ounces  ;  of  Ointment  of  Populion,  Oil 
of  Rofes,  and  Oil  of  Camomile,  of  each  one 
Ounce  y  let  the  Pint  of  Oil  on  the  Fire,  and 
mett  the  Wax  in  it ;  then  put  in  the  Popu- 
lion,  and  other' Oils  ;  when  all  is  melted, 
put  in  the  Red  Lead^  ilir  alt  welt  together, 
and  tet  them  l)oil  'till  they  are  blade ;  then 
dip  in  your  Cloth. 

An  Incon^arahk  Salve  for  the  Eyes. 

np  AKE  two  Ounces  of  May  Butter,  one 
έΑλ*έΑλ  Ounce  of  Virgins-wax,  half  an  Ounce 
of  Camphire,  one  Oince  of  Powder  of  Tutty  ; 
you  muft  firft  put  your  Wax  and  Camphire, 
into  a  Silver  Porringer,  and  let  both  melt  on 
a  gentle  flow  Fire  together,  coniiantly  ftir- 
fing  Yili  they  be  difiblv'd  ;  fome  little  time 
after,  put  in  your  May  Butter,  and  di|G>I?e  it 
with  a.  large  Spoonful  of  Red  Roie  Water  ; 
keep  it  on  the  Fire,  'till  all  be  incorporated  ; 
then  add  the  Powder  of  Tutty,  and  mix  all 

very 


0 


m  Phyiick  and  Sorgery*      i  %^ 

very  well ;  take  k  from  the  Air  ;  and  when 
you  lie  to  fleep^  gently  anoint  your  Eye-lid 
with  it. 

The  Smallage-OIntment. 

TAKE  a  Handful  of  tallage,  as  ipuch 
Mallows,  and  as  much  Elder ;  pick 
and  jhred  all  iinall ;  put  them  into  a  Skillet, . 
with  a  Pound  of  Mutton^fiict  ihred  fmall ;  let 
all  boil  together :  Strain  it,  and  keep  it  to 
anoint  any  Swelling. 

-4  very  good  Plaifter  for  a  Stomach  fire 

mth  Coughing. 

TAKE  of  Burgundy-Pitch,  Rofin,  and 
Bees^wans:,  of  each  one  Ounce  ;  melt 
thcle  t(^ether  :  Then  take  three  quarters  of^  . 
an  Ounce  of  coarfe  Turpentine,  and  half  an 
Ounce  of  Oil  of  Mace  ;  melt  thefe  with  the 
other,  and  keep  it  for  Ufc  :  When  you 
have  Occafion,  fprcad  it  oh  Sheeps-leather, 
prickM  &11  of  Holes  ;  and  when  you  lay  it 
on,  grate  ibttie  Nutmeg  oyer  it. 

To  ghe  certain  Eafe  in  the  Tooth-ach* 

'yAKE  French  Flics,  Mhhrldate,  and  a 

-*έΨι    few  Drops  of  Vinegar  j  beat  this  to  i 

Pafte,  and  lay  a  Plaifter  on  the  Cheek-^ne, 

'or 


f  ^4      ^  Co1te6i$(m  of  Receipts 

or  behind  the  Ear :  'Twill  blifter,  but  rarely 
iaxls  to  cure* . 

Plaiftprs  for  a  F<;vcr. 

BEAT  two  Handfuls  of  Rue,  with  as 
many  Currants,  ,  'till  they  are  fine,  and 
well  liiix'd  ;  fpread  it  on  Cloths,  and  bind  it 
to  the  Wrifts,  arid  Soles  of  the  Feet :  This 
draws  from  the -Head  ;  and,  if  laid  on  in 
time,  does  as  mudi  good  as  Fidgeons  to  the 
Feet,  in  Extremity. 

An\Omtmcnt  that  is  good  for  any  Ach, 
or  Swelling,  in  Man  or  Be  aft. 

nr?AKE  ofunfetHyffop,  Goats-Rue,  Ad- 
έΑλ**  der-fpear,  Alehoof,  Wormwood,  Camo- 
inik,  Ladies-mantk,  Plantain jJ/HartSr tongue^ 
JLaddcr-tD^heaveni  Southernw^,  Red-Sage, 
Agrimony,  Bone^wort,  AmbefJieaves,  Bayr 
Jearea,  of  each  one  Handful  ;  ^$h%^^  i.thefe, 
and  ftarap  them  together ;  then  mix'  ^^l^ 
them  one  Pound  ^nd  a  half  of  Butter  withoitt  , 
Salt,  and  make  it  up  in  nine  Balls,  and  let  it 
lie  nine  Days  ;  then  boil  it  over  the  Fire 
gently  :  When  itiooks  very  green,  ftrain  it 
oiF,  and  keep  it  for  Ulc. 

This  Number  df  Days  ahd  Balls  leems  fii- 
perftitioiiis  gnd^  \Yhimfical  ;  but  it  has  been  {6 
l<?ng  appfov'd.  in  the  Family  from  whence  I 
-  ;  .  hadi 


┬τ 

in  Phyficlc  and  Sinrgity.      1 1  y  ] 

hiA  it,  that  I  .cannot  doubt  of  its  Virtucsj 
tW  I  fmilc  at  the  Preparation.  > 

jitt  Ointment  for  a  Bum. 

TAKE    Houfe4eek,    fmooth   ^lantain^ 
leaves,    and  Qrecn  Elder,'   o!  each  one 
Found  ;  ftamp  them  together  fmall ;  put  to 
them  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Wine- Vinegar^ 
three  Spoonfuls  of  Urine,   and  four  Ounces 
of  old  Tallow  Candle,  with  three  Pints  of 
Oil-Olive  ;  boil  thcfe  two  or  three  Hours^ 
ftirring  thqm  conftantly  with  a  Stick  :  Then 
ilrain  it  thro'  a  new  Canvas  Strainer,   and 
put  it  on  the  Fire  again,  with  four  Ounces 
of  Yellow  Bees- wax  ilic'd  thinj    let  it  boil 
half  an  Hour  this  time,  and  pour  it  intb 
Pots.      ^Twill  keep  many   Years,    if  ty'd 
down  with  Bladders.     When  you  ufe  it,  rub 
white  Paper  'till  'tis  foft ;    then  Ipread  it 
over  with   the  Ointment,    and   anoint  the 
Burn  with  the  Ointment  :  Do  it  with  a  Fea- 
ther,   and  lay  the  Paper  over  it  ^    Do  this' 
Morning   and   Night,   'till   'tis  quite   well. 
'iTwill   skin   the.  Wound,    as.  well  as  take 
out   the  Fire  j    therefore    l^e  lure   to    ufe 
nothing  elfc  :  It  will  give  Eafe^  in  a  quar- 
ter   of  an  Hour.     'Tis    a    certain  as  well 
as   a    quick   Cure,     if   the   Vitals   are   not 
burn'd  ;    and  is  recommended  oh  the  Ex^ 
pericnce^of  a  Perfon  of  gi┬τat  Worth   and 
Charity.       A   third   Part  of  this   Quantity 

will 


ti6     A  CdtteSlm  <f  Receipts 

will  laft  many  Years>  and  may  be  made  very 
cheap. 

An  Ointment,  whhh  h  a  certain  Cure 
for  any  Scabs,  Pimpks,  or  Old  In^ 
veterate  Itch. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce  of  Red 
Precipitate,  grind  it  on  a  Marble  Stonc^ 
^till  ^tis  as  fine  as  the  Flower  of  firimftone  ; 
imx  this  with  an  Ounce  of  Flower  of  Brim* 
fione,  and  work  both  up  with  three  Ounces 
of  Butter  without  Salt,  as  it  comes  from  the 
Churn ;  mix  it  very  well,  and  anoint  the 
Place  very  thin  with  the  Ointment.  'Tis 
not  the  Nature  of  it  (o  check,  but  draw 
out  the  Difteoiper ;  and  in  a  Week  or  ten 
Bays  Confinement,  will  make  an  absolute 
Cure. 

I  ihould  fay  many  things  to  reoDmmend 
this,  being  ^tc  of  its  Virtues  ;  but  it  έΑλwill 
not  need  that,  to  any  body  of  Judgment* 

A  *oery  good  Poultis  for  a  Sore  Breaft, 
to  Break  it,  if  there  he  Occafion  5 
and  alfo  Heal  it,  mthout  any  other 

.    Salve. 

nPAKE   of  Smallage,    Spear-mint,    and 

^    Worniwoad,    each  a   good   Handful ; 

bdl  all  thefe  in^  Milk,  and  thicken  it  with 

O^t- 


; 


Iff  Pkyfick  tf┬╗i  Surgery.      127 

Oatmeal :  La^  it  on  ^  as  hot  as  you  can  bear 
it)  and  repeaft  k  when  hard  or  dry┬τ 

Jh  htcomparhhle  Ointment  /or  4  Strain^ 
Weaknefs^  or  Shrinking  in  tbt 
Nerves.. 

TAKE  S weet-marjorain,  Penny-royal^ 
Rofemary-tops,  Camoniilc-flo^irers,  La- 
Vender-flowers,  Sage,  and  young  Bay-leaves, 
of  each  a  large  Handful  ;  a  very  large  Nut- 
meg^ and  its  Weight  in  Mace  ^  the  Rind  of 
four  Lemons,  and  as  many  Oranges  :  Stamp 
all  very  fine,  and  boil  it  in  a  quarter  of  a 
Pint  of  rich  Malaga  Wine,  and  bilf  a  Fbund 
of  unfalted  Butter  ;  let  it  boil  'till  the  Wine 
is  i;vafied  )  ppefi  it  chro'  a  fine  Sieve,  and 
keep  it  cool  fer  Uie.  Rub  it  Morning  and 
Ni^t  before  the  Fire,  on  the  Part  affeded┬τ 

The  French  King  5  Balfam, 

np  AKE  Red  Sage,  and  Rue,  of  each  half 
*  a  Pound  ;  young  Bay-leaves,  md 
Wormwood,  of  each  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  : 
St^p  them  unwafiiM  in  a  Mortar,  with  a 
Pound  and  a  half  of  Sheeps-fuet,  hot  from 
the  Sheep,  'till  'tis  all  of  a  Colour  ;  then  add 
to  it  a  Quart  of  Oil-Olive,  and  work  that 
with  the  reft  ;  then  put  it  into  an  Earthen 
Pot  well  ftopp'd,  for  ┬τight  Days  j  then  boil  it 

on 


3 


11%     A  ColIe0iQn  of  Rgeeipts 

on  a  ┬μbft  Fire  :  Being  ready  to  take  off,  pour 
in  three  Ounces  of  Oil  of  Spike  ;  let  it  ix)il 
a  little  together  j  then  ftrain  it,  and  keep  it 
for  Ufe  :  Take  care  it  do  not  burn.  It  muft 
be  made  inMay^  and  will  keep  many  Years : 
Rubb'd  into  the  Small  of  the  Back,  it  eafes 
the  Stone  :  The  Quantity  of  Ivilf  a  Pea  in 
the  Ear,  chaf 'd  ip,  and  ftopp'd  with  black 
Wool,  helps  Pains  there  :  It  cures  StiiBfnels 
or  Strains,  in  Man  or  Beaft  ;  as  alio  Bruifes, 
Over-ftretching  of  Veins,  Fellons,  Anguifii 
or  Swelling  of  Wounds:  It  eafes  the  Cramp  ; 
and  is  a  good  and  ufeful  Balfam  in  all 
Families. 


T 


Fov"  the  Biting  of  a  Mad  Dog* 

A  K  ┬μ  four  Ounces  of  Rue,  four  Ounces 
of  London  Treacle,  four  Spoonfuls  of 
fcrap'd  Pewter,,  and  four  Ounces  of  Garlick  ; 
ftamp  the  Garlick,  and  boil  all  in  a  Pottle  of 
ftale  ftrong  Ale  \  ftrain  this  Prink  ;  let  that 
which  is  thick,  be  apply 'd  to  the  Wound  ; 
and  take  nine  Spoonfuls  of  the  clear,  for  nine 
Days  together. 

^┬╗  Ointment  for  a  Child  that  has  the 

Rickets. 

TAKE  one  Ounce  of  Beef  Marrow ;  as 
much   Oil   of  Lilies,    and  Tamarisk  4 
Bees- wax,  two  Ounces  i  Gum  Ammoniacum 

'^^  '  "diffolv'd 


έΑλ  ┬╗  ┬╗  ┬╗ 

in  Phyfick   aniSmgtty.    ^io^p 

diflblv'd  in  Vinegar,  half  an  Ounce;  Juice  of 
Briony-roOts,  Smallage,  and  Golden-rod,  oif 
each  one  Ounce  j  let  all  boil,  'till  the  Juice  of 
the  Herbs  be  confum'd :  With  this'  anoint  the 
Belly  of  the.  Child,  rubbiM  it  in  wjtb.your 
warm  Hand  by  the  Fire,^  half  an  Hour  et^ery 
Night.  'Tis  good,  if  'the  Belly  is  fweird 
with  Rickets,  Worms,  or  Ague. 

An  Ointttimt  for  the  Bach  of  a  Weak 

Ricketty  Child. 

piCK  Snails  clean  out  of  thje  Shells,  and 
^  prick  them  full  of  Holes,  hang  them  up 
in  a  Cloth,  and  put  a  Bafon  to  catch  what 
drops  from  them  j  which  you  muft  boil  lip 
with  Speracity,  arid  Blades  of  Mace,  of  each 
one  Ounce  :  Rub  this  Ointment  along  the 
Back-bone,  round  the  Neck,  Wrifts,  and 
^  Ancles ;  ufe  this  conftantly  Night  and  Morn- 
ing, and  chafe  it  in  by  the  Fire :  This,  with 
the  Drink  that  follows,  has  recovered  many 
weak  Children  from  Sicknefs,  Lamenefs,  and 
Deformity.  ┬╗ 

^he  Ricketty  Drink. 

pUT  an  Ounce  of  Rhubarb,  three  hun- 
^    dred    live  Wood-lice,    SalTafras,  China, 
and  Eringo-rootsj    of  each    three  Ounces  j 
Roots  of  Ofmond-royal,  two  Ounces  ;  Rai-  * 
fins  of  the  Sun  fton'd,  two  Ounces  ;  Harts-' 

I  Tongue, 


/ 


i^q     A  CoJMon  of  Receipts 

Tongue^  two  HaqdiuU  :  Put  thefe  into  fix 
Quarts  of  Small  Al^/  and  drink.  Spring  and 
Fall,  no  other  Drin^f  5  'tis  almoft  infallibk 
for  weak  Children. 

ji  e^lif^  Drink  #┬╗  a  Fever  or 

Plcurifie. 

PUT  an  Ounce  of  Pearl-Barlty  into  three 
Pints  of  Water ;  fliift  it  twice ;  beat  half 
an  Ounce  of  Almonds,  with  a  Bit  of  Lemon^ 
peel,  and  a  Spoonful  or  two  of  the  Water  j 
when  they  are  very  fine,  waflb  the  Almond** 
Milk  thro'  your  Sieve,  with  three  Pints  of 
Barley- Water  ;  in  the  laft  boiling  of  thi^, 
you  may  put  Melon-feeds  and  Pumpion- 
feeds,  of  each  half  an  Ounce }  white  Poppy^w 
feeds,  half  a  Dram  ;  when  (heie  are  well 
boird,  mix  the  Liquor  with  the  Almonds, 
and  firain  all  ^  fweeten  it  with  Syrap  of 
Lemons,  for  a  Fever,  or  Syrup  of  Mmden^ 
hair,  and  drink  four  Ounces  every  three  or 
four  Hours. 

Another  Drink  in  a  Fever* 

TA  K  ┬μ  a  little  ^ge,  a  little  Balm,  and 
a  little  Wood-ibrrcl ;  walk  and  dry 
them  ;  flice  a  fmall  Lemon  (after  you  have 
par'd  it  clean  from  the  white  and  bitter 
Part);  to  thefe  Herbs. and  ilicM  Lemon^ 
pour  three  Pints  of  boiling  Water  ;  Sweeten 

it- 


in  Piiy/ick  and  Suigery┬τ      i^i 

it  to  your  Tafte^  aod  drink  as  freely  as  you 
ffleafe. 

Another  Drink. 

TO  three  Pints  of  Bariey-watcr,  often 
fliifted,  put  Harts-horn,  and  Ivory┬τ 
fiiayings,  of  each  thi'ee  Drams ;  Qpick-grafs- 
Koots,  two  Ounces  ;  Currants,  one  Ounce  ; 
Red  Rofc  Water,  half  a  Pint  j  a  very  little 
Balm ;  let  it  boil,  and  fweeten  it  with  Syrup 
of  L^emons  or  Violets.  If  the  Patient  is  cos- 
tive, .  a  few  Drops  of  Spirit  of  Vitriol  fcrve 
inftead  of  Lemons,  when  that  cannot  be 
had  :  Of  this  you  may  drink  freely  in  a  Fe┬τ 
vcr  or.Quinfie. 

Another  Sort. 

/^LEARPoffct-drinfc,  pour'd  on  Wpod- 
^^^  forrcl  only,  is  good,  and  allays  Thirft 
better  than  any  other  ^  and  Pippins  flic'd  into 
Milk,  are  as  good,  and  better  than  all,  if  you 
have  a  Lemon  to  flice  in  with  them,  being 
not  iharp  enough  of  themielves  to  turn  it  to 
a  pleafant  Clearnefs. 

A  cold  Caudle  in  a  Fever. 

BO  I L  a  Quart  V)f  Springs-water  ;    let  it 
ftand  'till  cold  \  then  add  the  Yolk  of  one 
Egg,  the  Juice  of^a  fmall  Lemon,  fix  Spoon- 

1%  fulfl 


i  3 1     A  CoJk^ion  of  Receipts 

fuls  of  Sack,  and  Sugar  to  your  Tafte  ;  Sy- 
rup of  Lemons,  one  Ounce :  If  you  have  not 
this,  frefti  Lenu)ns  do  as  well  :  Brew  all  to-  . 
gether  'till  well  mix'd,  then  drink  freely.        ^ 
.    Elder-flower  Water  cold  ftill'd,  is  an  ex- 
cellent Drink  for  Heat  and  Thirft  ;  quicken 
each  Draught  with  five  or.  fix  Drops  of  Spirit 
of  Vitriol,  and  fweeten  it  to  your  Tafte. 

Wallnut- Water,  good  In  Agues  or 

Fevers. 

TA  K  E  a  Pound  of  Rue,  and  a  Pound  of 
Green  Wallnuts,  before  the  Shell  be 
hard,  a  Pound  of  good  Figs  ;  bruife  all,  and 
diftil  it  :  Take  a  Draught  before  your  Fit, 
and  try  to  fweat  after  it. 

j^n  excellent  Snail- Water  in  a  Con-  , 

fumption. 

T^  A  K  E  a  Peck  of  large  Shell-Snails,  lay' 
έΑλ*έΨι  them  on  a  hot  Hearth  before  the  Fire  \ 
let  them  lie  'till  they  Ijave  done  Hifling  and 
Spitting  ;  then  wipe  them  from  the  Froth, 
and  break  them  in  a  Mortar  ;'  have  a  Quart 
of  Earth- worms,  flit,  and  fcour'd  clean  with 
Salt  and  Water ;  beat  them  with  tlje  Snails  j 
then  take  Angelica,  Celendine,  Wood-fbrrel, 
Agrimony,  Bear-foot,  Barberry-bark,  Great 
Dock-roots,  of  each  t wo  Handfuls ;  Rue  half 
a  Handful  j  Rofemary-flowers,  one  Quart  ; 

half 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery,        i  ^  ^ 

halfa  Pound  of  Harts-horn;  Turmcrick,  anS 
Fenugreek,  of  each  two  Ounces  ;  half  an 
Ounce  of  powder'd  Saffron ;  and  three  Ounces 
of  Cloves  frefh  beat ;  ftired  thefe  Ingredients, 
and  infufe  all  in  three  Gallons  of  ftrong  Ale, 
for  twelve  Hours  j  then  diftil  it,  and  draw 
oflf  what  runs  good  ;  and  take  three  Spoon- 
fuls of  this  in  a  Glafs  of  Sack  or  White- wine, 
an  Hour  before  every  Meal ;  ufe  moderate 
Exercife  with  it.  ^Tis  highly  jecommended, 
and  has  been  lisM  with  conftant  Succefs  in 
Confumptions  and  Jaundice. 

A  Poflet-Drink,  to  he  taken  before  the 

Fit  of  an  Ague. 

POUR  a  Gallon  of  clear  Poffet-drink  upon 
four  large  Handfuls  of  Angelica,  fhred 
fmall ;  let  it  infufe,  'till  'tis  very  ftrong  έΑλ  let 
the  Perfon,  if  poffible,  drink,  all,  that  the 
Stomach  may  be  perfectly  clear ;  and  go  into 
a  warm  Bed,  as  foon  as  the  Vomit  has  done 
working  :  Cover  yourfelf  cldfe,  and  try  to 
fweat.  It  has  feldom  fail'd,  and  is  a  fafc 
Vomit. 


ji  good  Epidemick- Water. 

AKERue,  Rofemary,  Pimpernel,  Ro- 
fa-Solis,  Balm,  Scordiura,  Carduus, 
Dragon,  Marigold-flowers  and  Leaves,  Goats- 
Rue,    Mint,     and   Angelica,    of  each,  two 

1  3  Hand- 


T 


134     A  Cotte&ion  df  Receipt s 

Handfuls ;  take  the  Roots  of  Elecampane^ 
Vionj^  Maftcrwort,  and  Butter-bur,  of  each 
one  Pound;  Gentian,  Tormentil,  Scor2onera, 
and  Firginia  Snake-weed,  of  each  four  Ounces  ; 
Sa┬μGron  one  Ounce  :  Infufe  all  thefe,  when 
Ihred,  in  two  Quarts  of  White-wine,  one 
Quart  of  Water,  and  one  Quart  of  French 
Brandy  diftUPd,  and  ufe  it  in  any  malignant 
Piftemper. 

An  adrmrdbk  PofTet-Drink,  in  a  Pleu* 
rifie^  or  Shortnefs  of  Breath. 

INFUSE  two  Ounces  of  Flax-feed  in  a 
Pint  of  clear  Foflet-drink  ;  firft  bruife  the 
oceds.  Drink  this  Quantity  at  a  Draught 
every  Morning,  and  at  Night,  if  very  i\\.^ 

It  has  the  fame  Virtues  with  Linfeed  Oil  ; 
but  is  not  io  hard  to  take. 

For  an  Inflapimacion  in  the  Throat. 

i  έΑλ  \  *  -  έΑλ 

9 

TNFUSE  one  larce  Handful  of  Cinqucr 
*  foile  in  a  Quart  of  Water ;  let  it  boil  to  a 
Pint ;  ftrain  it,  and  fweeten  it  with  Honey 
ycryfweet,  and  iwallow  two  or  three  Spoon- 
fuls often.  This,  tho'  a  fimple  Medicine^ 
has  done  great  Gures,  and  may  be  rely'd  on. 
The  Herb  is  othcrwife  caird  Ftve4eav'd 
Graft  έΑλ 

For 


\ 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery,      i }  j 
For  a  Coughj  and  Shottnefs  of  Breatlu 

TAKE  eight  Ounces  of  Colts-foot  pick'd 
clean  from  the  Stalks ;  beat  it  to  a  per- 
fed  Conferve,  with  four  Ounces  of  Brown 
Sugar*candy,  four  Ounces  of  Raifins  fton'd  : 
When  'tis  very  fine,  and  well  mix'd,  add 
έΑλ  four  Ounces  of  Conferve  of  Rofes  ;  then  add 
twenty  Drops  pf  Spirit  of  Sulphur,  and  ten 
Drops  of  Spittt  of  Vitriol  :  Mix  it  well,  and 
iake  as  much  as  a  large  Nutm^,  as  often  as 
you  pleafe.  I  think  the  Juice  of  the  Colts^ 
foot,  mix'd  with  tlie  Sugar-candy,  is  better 
than  the  Leaves,  without  ftr^ing. 

ji  good  Way  to  make  Caudle* 

TO  four  full  Quarts  of  Water,  you  may 
put  a  Pint  of  whole  Oatmeal  5  let  it 
boil  very  flow  for  ^ve  or  fix  Hours  at  leaft  j 
then  ftrain  it  out,  and  put  to  two  Quarts 
three  large  Blades  of  Mace,  a  full  Pint  and 
a  half  of  White  or  Rhenifh-wine ;  and  make* 
it  fweet  to  your  Tafte  :  And  juft  as  you 
take  it  off  the  Fire,  flice  in  a  Lemon,  from  έΑλ 
which  all  the  White  is  cut,  which  is  ap|:, 
by  lying  long,  to  make,  it  bitter  j  juft  the 
Yellow  of  the  Peel  may  be  put  in.  A  little 
Salt  docs  very  well  in  Caudle,  but  is  not 
often  us'd. 


\ 


1  4  uivery 


tj6      AColkSi'ion  (f  Receipts 
A  very  good  Purge  in  a  Fever. 

HTAKE  S?na  two  Drams,  Rhubarb  ooc 
*  Dram,  tamarinds  two  Drams ;  boil 
thcfc  in  half  a  Pint  of  Water,  'till  two  Thirds 
be  wafted ;  to  what  remains,  add  half  an 
Ounce  of  Cream  of  Tartar,  fwecten'd  with 
one  Ounce  of  Syrup  of  Succory,  or  Syrup  of 
Rofes  iblutive;  ftrain  and  drink  it  at  a 
Draught ;  in  the  Workmg,  diink  clarify'd 
Whey,  rather  than  Poffct-drinlc  'Tis  good 
(o  cool  and  thin  the  Blood. 

jin  Incomparable  Drink  in  a  7%irfiy 

Fever. 

AN  Ounce  and  a  half  of  Tamarinds,  three 
'^^  Ounces  of  Currants,  and  two  Ounces  of 
ftonM  Raifins,  boiPd  in  three  Pints  of  Water 
!┬μill  near  one  Third  be  confuin*d  j  ftrain  and 
^rinkthis,  when  you  are  coftive. 

J  EJraught  for  a  Confumption. 

nPAK'E  Mint,  and  Red-Rofe  Water,  of 
**  each  two  large  Spoonfuls,  Sugar-candy 
finely  beat,  one  Ounce ;  warm  thelc  together 
with  a  little  grated  Nutmeg  ;  pour  to  it  near 
half  a  Pint  of  Milk  juft  warm  from  the  Cow; 
drink  this  twice  a  Day,  for  fi-^  Weeks,  in  the 
Spring.  It  'has  recovered  many  from  Weak- 
nefs,  and  faint  Sweat;s. 


,    ^ 


in  Phyfick  andSut^tty.       i  37 

An  excellent  Eleduary  ^or  a  Con- 

fumpcion. 

npAKE  Hore-hound,  Harts-tongue,  Li- 
^  ver-vvort,  Maiden-hair,  Agrimgny,  un- 
fet  Hyflbp,  Germander,  and  Colts-foot,  of 
each  one  Handful  j  boil  them  in  a  Gallon  of 
Spring-water,  'till  half  be  confum'd  ;  then 
take  three  Pounds  of  Live  Honey,  half  an 
Ounce  of  Powder  of  Elecampane,  and  an 
Ounfce  of  Powder  jof  Anifeed  5.  lift  them  both 
thro'  a  Sieve  j  boil  thefe  together,  'till  it 
come  to  the  Confiftence  of  an  Eleftuary :  Take 
the  Quantity  of  a  Niitmeg  falling  in  the 
Morning,  and  faft  an  Hour  after  it  :  Take 
the  like  Quantity  at  Night,  when  you  go  to 
Bed. 

A  Poppy- Water  for  Surfeits. 

BREW  ten  Gallons  of  ftrong  Ale-wort ; 
when  'tis  cool,  work  it  with  Yeaft,  and 
'  add  as  many  frelh  Red  Poppies  as  the  Wort 
will  conveniently  wet,  io  that  you  may  llir 
it  daily  ;  let  the  Poppies  infufe  in  this  Wort 
three  Days  and  Nights  ;  then  draw  it  off  ia 
a  Limbeck  as  quick  as  you  can,  'till  the 
whole  is  diftili'd  off;  mix  the  fmall  and 
firong  together,  and  take  a  Glals  at  any 
time,  with  cr  without  Sugar,  after  a  full  or 
difgufting  Meal.     'Tis   not   much  ftronger 

than 


B 


t)S       A  ColkStion  of  Receipts 

than  a  fimple  Water^  but  has  been  the  oidy 
Cotdial  of  an  infirm  Lady,  who  has  us'd  it 
ever  fince  Fifteen,  and  fee  is  nowNinety- 
feTcn.    This  of  my  own  Knowledge. 

Another  for  a  Surfdt. 

O I L  a  Handful  of  frelh  or  dry 'd  Poppies 
in  Ale,  with  an  Ounce  of  Carraway- 
feeds  bruis'd  :  Sweeten  it,  and  drink  a  large 
Praught.  If  the  Stomach  is  fb  fick  as  to 
difcharge  it,  repeat  it  'till  it  does  fiay,  and 
ileep  on  it* 

A  Rich  Surfeit  Cordial- Water. 

TAKE.four  Pounds  of  frelh  Red  Poppies, 
infufe  them  in  four  Quarts  of  Brandy  j 
┬τdd  to  it  half  a  Pound  of  Dates  flic'd,  half  a 
Found  of  Figs  flic'd,  a  Found  of  Raiiins 
fton'd ;  Carraway  and  Angelica- feeds  bruis'd, 
^  of  each  one  Ounce  j  Mace,  Cinnamon, 
Cloves,  and  Nutmeg,  of .  each  a  quarter  of  ^ 
-an  Ounce ;  Marigo|d-flowers,  and  Bdm,  of 
each  one  Handful ;  Sugar  candy  one  Pound, 
hot  Angelica  and  cold,  of  each  one  Pint  : 
Steep  all  thefc  a  Month,  ftirring  them  every 
Day.'  If  you  have  a  convenient  Placc^  let  it 
ftand  in  the  Sun. 


A  ffhk- 


in  Phyiick  and  Surgery,      f  3  91 
A  Wbohjome  Cordial. 

TAKE  oije  Pound  of  <jentian-roota 
flic'd,  common  Dock-roots  flic'd,  half  a 
Found  ;  Centaury,  both  Flowers  and  Leaves^ 
of  each  half  a  Pound  :  Put  theie  into  a  great 
Glafs,  with  one  Pound  of  Poppies;  pourupoa 
thefe  Ingredients  fix  Quarts  of  White-wine  j 
let  it  ftand  twenty-four  Hours  to  infufe  ; 
then  draw  it  off  in  a  Limbeck.  'Tis  good 
and  fafe  in  any  Ulnefs  of  the  Stomach. 

For  the  Gout┬τ 

?U|[AKE  aConferve  of  Buck-bean,'^ with 
*^*  the  Weight  in  Sugar-candy ;  beat  both 
fine,  and  take  as  much  as  a  large  Nutmeg, 
firft  and  laft  ;  and  drink  a  Tea  made  of  the 
fame  Herb,  every  Morning  and  Afternoon, 
conftantly,  for  one  whole  Year. 

This  alone,  without  any  other  Medicine, 
made  a  perfed  Cure  in  a  Perfbn  that  had 
been  many  Years  moft  grievoufly  afflifted  j 
and  is  effeSual  in  the  Scurvy y  or  JRJbeumaticHi 
Pains.  Where  the  Patient  i^  weak  and  very 
reftlefs,  'tis  beft  to  mix  a  third  VdiXlFenia 
Treacle  in  the  Conferve  they  take,  when 
going  to  Reft. 


k       \ 


J[  Drink 


14**      ^  CoUeCiion  of  Receipts 
A  Drink  for  the  Gout. 

CAR  SAP  ARILLA,eight  Ounces;  Saffa- 
^  fras,  China,  and  Harts-horn  Shavings,  of 
each  three  Ounces  ;  Angelica-roots,  three 
Ounces;  Raifins,  one  Pound;  and  the  Roots  of 
Sweet- fmelling  Flag,  three  Ounces ;  of  can- 
dy'd  Eringo-root,  half  a  PouncT:  Hang  thefe 
in  fix  Gallons  of  fmall  Ale,  when  you  tun  it 
tip ;  and  as  loon  as  'tis  a  Fortnight  old,  drink 
of  it  conftantly* 

*Tis  an  incomparable  Drink  to  fweeten 
the  Blood,  and  corred  thofe  very  fharp  Hu- 
mours, that  occafion  that  difmal  tormenting 
Difteniper* 

For  the  Head-ach. 

DRY  Rofemary  before  the  Fire,  'till  'twill 
'  crumble  to  a  very  fine  Powder ;  one  Pu- 
gil  of  Saffron  ;  and  with  the  Powder  of  Rofe- 
mary and  Saffron,  make  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg 
'  into  a  ftiff  Poultis,  and  lay  it  as  hot  as  you  can 
endure  it,  to  the  Temples. 

For  the  Stone  and  Gravel 

np  AKE  of  Caffianewly  drawn,  one  Ounce 
.-έΨι*  and  a  half ;  choice  Rhubarb  in  Powder, 
a  Dram  and  a  half;  Cyprus  Turpentine  well 
wafti'dj  feven  Drams ;  Ipic'd  Diatragacanth, 
.  .  one 


/to  Phy fick  and  ^ui^gety.      1 4 1 

one  Scruple  ;  Powder  of  Liquorice,  half  a 
Dram  :  Mix  it  in  a  good  Quantity  of  Syrup 
of  Marfti-mallows  :  Take  the  Quantity  of  a 
Wallnut  in  a  Morning  falling :  Drink  a  Draught 
of  pldn  Ale  PolTct-drink  immediately  after  it : 
Then  walk  an  Hour  :  And  after  that,  drink  a 
Pint  (ifyourStomach  will  bear  it)  of  White- 
wine  Poffct,  fweeten'd  with  Syrup  of  Marfli- 
mallows. 

N.  B.  This  was  the  Prefcription  of  a 
learned  Phyfician  j  and  has  been  long  kept  as 
a  choice  Secret  in  a  very  charitable  Family, 
who  have  made  numberlefs  Experiments  of  it 
with  miraculous  Succefi,  even  to  diffolve  the 
Scone. 

Jnother  for  Stoppage  of  Water,  in 

the  Stone. 

nPAKE  four  Spoonfuls  of  the  Juice  of 
έΑλ*-  Parfley  in  a  Pint  of  White-wine  j  fweeten 
it  with  Syrup  of  Marfti-mallows,  and  (if 
you  can)  drink,  the  whole  Quantity  at  a 
Draught. 

For  the  Stone. 

liyr  A  K  E  a  very  ftrorig  Decodion  of  Mai- 
^^  lows,  thus  4  put  in  half  a  Peck  of  Leaves 
into  one  Gallon  of  Water ;  let  it  boil  to  near 
half  the  Quantity  :  Then  ftrain  it,  and  add 
half  as  many  Leaves,   and   boil   it   again  : 

Then 


141     ^  Cotte&um  of  Receiptt 

Then  add  Liquorice,  ftonM  Raifins,  and  Sy- 
rup of  Marlh-mallowS)  of  each  two  Ounces  ; 
and  drink  continually  of  this  Drink  :  It  has 
given  ┬μafe  to  many  in  Extremity.  Obferye 
to  ftrain  it  clean,  and  let  it  fettle  from  the 
Thick,  before  you  pour  it  off 

For  the  Stone. 

TAKE  of  good  White*  wine  one  Pint  ; 
Fennel,*  and  Parfley-water,  of  each  one 
Pint :  Into  this  Mixture  put  one  Ounce  of 
live  Wood-lice,  well  cleansed,  one  Lemon 
flic'd  thin,  and  two  ^Ounces  of  Syrap  of 
Marlh-mallows  :  Put  thefe  into  a  Jug  to  in- 
fiife  fc*  five  or  fix  Days :  Then  ftrain  it  ou(^ 
and  let  the  Patient  take  four  Ounces  at  a 
time,  twice  a  Day. 

For  the  Scurvy. 

TAKE  Scurvy-grafs,  Gardcn-Tanfey, 
Wood-ibrrcl,  and  Golden-rod,  of  each 
one  Handful ;  beat  thefe  Herbs  to  a  Conferve, 
with  their  Weight  in  Sugar ;  add  to  them  an- 
Ounce  of  Powder  of  Wake-Robin  :  Take  as 
much  Syrup  of  Oranges,  as  will  make  this 
into  an  Eleduary,  of  which  take  a  Dram 
three  times  a  Day,  for  fix  Weeks  together, 
in  the  Spring  \  drinking  after  it  the  follow- 
ing Drink. 

Take 


in  Pkyfick  and  Surgeiy.      i^f 

Take  Garden  Tanfey,  Garden  Scurvy- 
graiS|  of  each  fix  Handfuls  ;  Buck-bean^ 
Water-creffes,  Brook-lime,  and  Wood-forrel, 
of  each  four  Handfuls ;  the  Peel  of  fix  Oranges^ 
and  one  Ounce  of  Nutmegs  bruis'd  :  lafule 
thefe  in  two  Gallons  of  new  ftrong  Ale- 
wort  ;  let  it  work  together  a  Day  and  a 
Night ;  then  >  diftil  it  off  in  a  cold  Still  m 
long  as  it  runs  good  ^  mix  the  finally  and 
drink  a  Wine┬τ-Glais  full  after  every  Dofe  of 
the  EleSiuary.  ^ 

This  has  been  taken  with  great  Succeis^ 
by  People  who '  have  been  much  afflidcd 
with  Scufvy^PalnSy  and  Spots.  It  has,  hj 
conftant  taking,  cur'd  a  Rbeamatifm. 

Far  the  fame. 

f\  N  E  Handfiil  of  Garden  Tanfcy,  as  much 
^^  Sage,  and  twice  as  much  Scurvy-grals, 
fieep'd  in  tWo  Quarts  pf  White-wine,  or  ftrong 
Ale.  Drink  half  a  Pmt  of  this.  Morning 
and  Night. 

For  the  fame. 

TNTO  five  Gallons  of  well-brcw'd  fmall 
^  Ale,  put  in  a  Bag  one  large  Handful  of 
Fir-tree  Tops  cut  imally  two  Handfuls  of 
Scurvy--grai%  as  much  Water-crefTes,  one 
Pound  of  Burdock-root  fcrapM   and  filic'd, 

the 


144     -^  CoJleiiktt  of  Receipts 

the  Juice  and  Rinds  of  twelve  Seville  Oranges  j 
let  thefe  be  put  in  while  the  Xle  is  work- 
ing ;  when  it  has  donfe,  ftop  it  down  'till 
*tis  fine  ;  then  drink  of  it  for  a  Month,  or 
fix  Weeks. 

Uie  the  fame  for  a  Dropfy  \  adding  only  a 
quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Muftard-feed,  and  half 
a  Pound  of  Horfe-radifli  Root* 

Jiu  Excellent  Purging  Ale  for  a  Dropfy. 

OENA,  four  Ounces ;  Sa^afras,  and  Tar- 
*^  tar,  of  each  two  Ounces  ;  J|lop,  and 
Liquorice,  of  each  one  Ounce  j  Rhubarb, 
Coriander,  and  Ariifeed,  of  each  one  Ounce ; 
Polypodium  eight  Ounces;  Broom-alhes  one 
Quart ;  and  one  Ounce  of  Cloves  j  put  all  in 
a  Bag,  with  Ibme  little  Weight  to  fink  it  : 
Take  Scabious,  and  Agrimony,  of  each 
three  Handfuls  ;  of  the  Roots  of  Danes- 
w;ort,  one  Handful ;  Raifins  of  the  Sun  fton'd, 
one  Pound,  with  a  little  Ginger  :  Put  thefc 
Ingredients  into  fweet  Ale-wort,  whpn  you 
put  in  your  Hops,  and  let  all-  boil  together 
half  an  Hour  ;  then  pour  it  icalding  hot  on 
your  Bag  of  Drugs  :  When  'tis  cold  enough, 
fct  it  to  work  with  Yeaft  :  When  it  has  done 
working,  ftop  it  up  for  twelve  Days,  or  a 
Fortnight  :  Hang  the  Bag  of  Drugs  in  the 

VeflcL 


VefleL  Drink  a  large  Glafs  of  this  in  the 
Morning,  and  at  Four  in  the  Afternoon^  un- 
lefs  you  find  it  works  too*  much  at  firft  ; 
if  ┬μoy  leiTen  your  Doi^ ;  but  take  it  daily, 
'till- you  have  taken  all.        ..  ,.  r* 

έβο┬╗  έΑλέΑλ 

For  a  Dropfy. 

TAKE  Broom,  and  burn  it  by  itfelf,  itf 
a  clean  Oven :  Ihift  the  Alhes  from  ^thef 
Stalks  and  Coals  that  are  not  quite  confum''^^ 
and  put  two  foil  Pounds  of  thefe  Afhes  ihto 
^  a  ,t>vo  Quart  Bottle  ;  pour  on  Old  HocJk^ 
'till  the  Bottle  is  up  to  the  Neck  ;  take  care 
'tis  not  too  full  J  if  it  has  riot  Room  to  fer- 
ment, 'twill  be  apt  to  fplit  the'  Bottle  :  Di- 
geft  it  in  hot  Aflies  by  the  Fire,  or  in  the 
Sun,  and  ihake  it  often  ;  when  it  has  flood 
three  or  four  Days,  pour  off  a  Quart  of  the 
dkar  I^ye  :  If  it  is  not  perfeftly  fine,  decanfr 
aga^Q  and  again^  'till  it  is  fo  ;  fill  up  youif 
Bq^tle  again  with  Hock,  and  do  as  before^ 
'till  all  the  Strength  of  the  Aflies  be  out, 
prink  this  firft,  and  at  Four  or  Five  in  the. 
Afternoon  ;  continue  it  for  fbme  time,  and 
'^will  carry  off  the  Dropfical  Humours :, 
While  you  take  it,  let  the  Meat  you  eat  be 
dry  roafted ;  and  your  Drink,  ftroog  Ale  Of 
Wine. 


K  Foi 


IJ^6    A  Cdk^tm  (f  Rece'^i 


"v 


For  the  Dropfy. 

^ 

MI X  four  Ounces  of  Syrup  of  EHcr- 
berrie$)  with  two  Ounces  of  Oil  of 
Turpentine ;  incorporate  them^  well  together  ; 
and  tak;c  one  large  Spoonful  of  this  Mixture^ 
jrOr  and  laft,  for  a  Fortnight. 

^otey  That  Sea-bisket,  and  New  Raiiins 
<^  the  S^o  (if  they  can  be  had)  eaten  con- 
^antLy^  inftead  of  Suppers^  have  cur'd  that 
PiUemp^r  without  Fbyuck ;  efpecially  if  the 
Party  cajp(  refrain  from  jGnall  Liquors. 


For  the  JdXtti^vx. 

CUT^flFtheTop  of  a  Sevitte  Orange^  aa^ 
'  take  out^  as  well  as  you  can^  the  mid┬τ 
die  Core  and  Seeds,  without  the  Juice  ;  fill 
the  Vacancy  with  Saffi-on,  and  lay  the  Top 
en  again;  then  roaft  it  carefully  without 
burning,  and  throw  it  into  a  Pint  of  White* 
wine :  Drink  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  fafting, 
f^  nine  Days :  It  greatly  fweetens  and  clears 
tHeHood. 


^0 


in  Phyfick  and  Sufgery.      14;^^ 

To'  Sweeten  the  Blood,  in  Scutvy; 
Jaundice,  or  any  *Pahi  in  the 
Limbs. 

έβο 

TAKE  Scurvy-grafi,  Maidcto-bair,  Wild 
Germander,  Wood-lbrrel,  Fumitorjr, 
of  each  half  a  Handful ;  Wild  Mercury  ond 
Handful;  Daitiask-Rofes two Handfuk ;  put 
ihele  into  two  Quarts  of  clarify'd  Whey  ; 
let  all  ftarid  'till  'tis  ics^lding  hot,  then  firaiii 
it  off;  and  drink  half  a  Pint  at  a  Draughty 
four  or  iiye  times  in  a  Day,  for  a  Month  or 
five  Weeks  in  the  Spring.  Thb  is  highly 
recommended  in  the  Gout. 

A  good  Bitter  Wipe. 

Tp  AKE  two  Quarts  of  ftrong  White- wine^ 
έΑλ*  infufe  in  it  one  Drani  of  Rhubarb,  a 
Dram  and  half  of  Gentian  Root,  Romaa 
Wormwood,  Tops  of  Carduus,  Centaury, 
Camomile-flowei's,  of  each  three  Drams^ 
Yellow  Peel  of  Oranges,  half  an  Ounce, 
Nutmegs,  Mace,  and  Cloves,  of  each '  one 
Dram  j  infule  all  thefe  two  Days  and  Nights; 
ftrain  it,  and  drink  a  Glafs  fafting,  and  an 
I^our  before  Dinner  and  Supper :  Add  Filings 
of  Steel  (if  'tis  propcf)  two  Ounces. 

Ka  A 


┬π4$     A  ColkSlkn  of  Receipti 

A  ^leafant  and  Safe  Medicine,  for  the 

Yellow  Jaundice. 


V  -     έΑλ 


ROAST  a  large  Lemon,  'till,  ^tis  foft ; 
take  care  it  do  not  break  ;  cqt  it  and 
Iqiiecze  it  (while  'tis  very  hot)  upon  a 
Dram  of  Turmerick  flic'd  or  grated,  and 
half  a  Dram  of  Saffron  ;  pour  upon  thcfe  In- 
gredients a  Pint  of  good  White-wine  j  let 
all  iiifiife  one  Night  ;  atod  in  the  Morning 
fafting,  take  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  this  Liquor ; 
fweetcn  it  to  your  Tafte  with  Sugar-candy  ;- 
or  if  your  Stomach  can  bear,  it,  the  Sugars- 
candy  may  l>e  omitted  ;  repeat  this  for  four 
Mornings,  or  Ivnger,  if  you  have  Occafion. 
^  'Tis  for  the  moft  part  a  certain  Cure. 

"For  the  Stone. 

\t7ASHy'dry,  and  very  finely  powder, 
^  the  inner  Skin  of  Pidgcons  Gizzards  : 
Take  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a  Shilling,  of  thi* 
Powder,  in  a  Glafs  of  White- wine.  This 
does  very  often  give  Eafe  in  racking  Pain. 

% 

Jnotber  for  the  Stone. 

T^RY  and  powder  the  Haw-thorft  B^r- 
έΑλ*-^  ries,  and  take  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a 
Shilling,  in  a  Glals  ofAVhite-wine:  This  has 
done  great  Cures,  by  conftant  taking ;   it 

may 


V 


i 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgefy.       i]^^ 

may  be  taken  in  Ale,  if  you  cannot  have 
Wine  ;  The  Virtue  is  in  the  Berry,  and  has 
been  experienc'd,  to  the  great  Eafe  of  many 
poor  People,  in  Ale  as  well  as  Wine  ;  but 
the  laft  is  beft  ;  and  a  PoiTet-Drink  turn'd 
with  White- wine,  is  a  proper  Vehicle  for  it  j 
taking  it  failing,  or  when  in  Pain. 

Jn  excellent  Drink  in  the  Gout  or 

Rheumatifm. 

έΑλ 

TA  K  E  fix  Ounces  of  Saflafras  ;  Sarfa- 
parilla,  and  China,  of  each  four  Ounces; 
Liquorice  and  Anifeeds,  of  each  two  Ounces ; 
Sage  of  Virtue,  half  a  Handful  j  GandyM 
Eringo-root,  two  Ounces  ;  Raifins  and  Figs, 
of  each  half  a  Pound  :  Put  all  thefe  into  four 
Quarts  of  Water.;  let  it  infple  oyer  a  flow 
Fire,  'till  ope  third  is  wafted.  ┬πtrain  and 
drmk  it  coqftahtly,  to  iWeefeq  the  Blood. 

ji  good  Mouth*  Water,  to  he  usd  2)aily 

in  the  Scurvy. 

TAKE  half  a  Handful  of  Red-Rofc- 
Leaves,  three  Ounces  of  Black-thorn^* 
Bark  flic'd,  a  Bit  of  AUom  ;  boil  thefe  in  a 
Pint  of  Claret,  and  as  much  Water,  'till  ┬τ 
third  is  wafted .;  then  pvt  in  the  Peel  of  one 
iSi?z;/7/^ Orange,  a  Handful  of  Scurvy-grafs,  anij 
as  much  PowderM  Myrrh  as  will  lie  on  a 
Shilling  i  ftir  all  together,  and  let  it  boil  up ; 

K  3  then 


/ 


\ 


I'fo     ACdk$ion  of  Receipts 

then  ftraia  it,  juid  hold  a  Mouthful  as  long 
^s  you  can,  once  or  twice  a  Day  :  It  faftens 
liooie  Teeth,  and  mafces  the  Gums  grow  up 
to  the  Teeth. 


T 


J  CztgWfor  a  Sore  Throat. 


AKE  Plantain,  and  Red  Rofc  Water, 
of  each  half  a  Pint  j  the  Whites  of 
Eggs  beat  into  Water,  four  Spoonfuls ;  Juice 
ofHoufc-lcek,  freihbeat,  four  Spoonfuls ;  as 
much  of  the  Water  in  which  Jews-Ears  have 
Jxxn  boil'dj  twenty  Drops  of  Spirit  ofVi- 
tribj,  and  an  Ounce  of  Honey  of  Rofes. 

For  a  Canker  in  th  Mouth  or  Gums. 

JUriX  forty  Drops  of  Spirit  of  Vitriol,  in 
^  έΨι  am  Ounce  of  Honey  of  Rof^s  ;  keep 
the  fore  Place  always  moifk  with  this  Mix- 
ture J  and  Yis  f  c^ain  Cure. 

A  Gargle  in  the  Palfey. 

PU  T  a  large  Spoonful  of  Muftard-fecd, 
l^rais'd,  into  a  Pint  of  White- wine;  drop 
in  Spirit  of  Vitriol,  to  make  it  fliarp  ^  and 
wafli  your  Moutli  often  in  a  Day  j  hold  it 
as  long  at  the  Root  of  your  Tongue,  as.  you 
can  endure  it  at  a  time. 

Jinother 


$tt  Phyfick  and  Suigcry;      I J I 
Ancther  Gargle  In  the  Falfey* 

J0OUR  2  Quart  of  boiling  Water  upon  % 
έΑλ*έΨι  very  large  Handful  of  Lavender-flowers^ 
let  it  infiife  in  the  Alhes,  'till  'tis  very  ftrong^ 
ftrain  it,  and  add  a  Spoonful  of  Vkiegiry  a 
Spoonful  of  Hungary-Water,  and  a  Spootifiil 
of  Honey.  Warn  your  Mouth  often  with 
this  :  It  is  a  very  good  Gargle 

A  con/iant  Daily  Wafli  for  pur  Teeth. 

TO  one  Quart  of  Claret  put  an  Ounce  of 
Bole- Armoniack^half  an  Ounce  of  Myrrh, 
one  Dram  of  Aliom,  Salt  of  Vitriol,  ten 
Grains,  an  Ounce  of  Hungary- Water,  and 
two  Ounces  of  Honey  of  Rofcs  ;  when  thcfe 
have  flood  in  a  warm  Sun,  or  near  the  Fire 
for  three  Days,  fet  it  by  to  fettle ;  and  pour  a 
Spoonful  ofit  Into  a  Tea^cup  of  Water,  with 
which  wafh  your  Teeth  :  It  prefer vcs  them 
found,  and  makes  them  white. 

fh  chan  nsepf  foul  Spotted  Teeth. 

|U(AK┬μ  a  Skewer  very  fharp  at  one 
^^  End,  over  which  wihd  a  Bit  of  fine 
Rag,  tie  it  on  very  hard,  'and  cut  it  very 
fharp,  that  it  ipay  be  like  a  fine  PenciJ  for 
Painting;  dip  this  in  Spirit  of  Sal  t^  take  It 
out  immediately,  and  dip  it  then  into  a  Cujp 

K  4  of 


έΑλ ' 


I  ff  ^      A  G&n0ioH  (f  Receipts 

of  fair  Water,  in  which  hold  it  for  a  Mo- 
ment J .  with  this  Rag,  fo  carefully  >yct,  rub 
your  Teeth,  and  take  care  you  do  not  touch 
your  Lips  or  Gums  ;  have  a  Cup  of  cold 
Water  ready  to  wafti  your  Mouth,  that  the 
Rag  has  not  been  dipp'd  in  :  With  this  you 
may  make  any  furrM  Teeth  as  white  as  Snow  ; 
but  you  muft  not  ufe  it  often  or  carelefsly. 
When  they  are  once  thus  clean,  the  Glaret- 
wafli  will  prclerve  them  fo. 

j4  Mucilage  in  a  Sore  Throat. 

r 

TAKE  four  Drams  of  Quince-fced,  de- 
coft  it  in  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Rofc  or 
Thntain-water,  'till  'tis  a  ftrong  Jelly  ;  add 
a  Spoonful  of  the  White  of  an  Egg  beat  to 
Water  ;  and  fweeten  it  with  Syrup  of  Mulr 
berrie^  or  Rasberrics. 

To  Cure  a  Cough  and  Shortnefs  of 

Breath. 

TAKE  Elecampane-roots,  and  boil  them 
very  jtfl^ndpr,  and  pulp, them  fine  thro' 
a  Sieve  ;  take  their  Weight  in  the  Pulp  of 
coddled  Pippins  J.if  you  have  a  Pound  Weight 
of  both  tftgethfer,' l)oil  it  in  a  Pint  and  half  of 
cliiHf^M'Horiey^  for  half  an  Hour;  then 
tiki  dnc^OHrfce  6f  Powder  of  Liquorice,  and 
as  much  P6*^de┬ξ' of  Anifeeds.j  mix  all  well 
togclther,'  and  tike  a  Dram  Morning   and 

^*   '  Night, 


in  Phy fick  and  Sargct y.^      i  y  j 

Night,  and  in  the  Afternoon  :  'Tis  an  ex- 
cellent Medicine  in  an  Aflhma. 

Another  for  a  Cough. 

ROAST  a  large  Lemon  rery  carefully 
without  burning ;  when  'tis  thorough 
hot,  cut  and  fqueeze  it  into  a  Cup,  upon 
thy-jcp  Ounces  of  Sugar-candy  finely  powder'd; 
take  a  Spoonful  whenever  your  Cough  trou- 
bles you  :  'Tis  as  good  as  'tis  pleafant. 

For  the  fame. 

TAKE  two  Ounces  of  Syrup  of  Poppies, 
as  much  Conferve  of  Red  Rofes  ;  mix 
and  take  one  Spoonful  for  three  Nights,  when 
going  to  Reft. 

For  the  fame^  mtb  a  Hoarfenefs, 

SYRUP  V of  Jujubes  and  Althea,  of  each 
two  Ounces,  Lohoch  Sanans  one  Ounce  ; 
Saffiron  and  Water-flag  powder'd,  of  each  a 
Scruple :  Lick  it  off  a  Liquorice-fticb^  wheq 
you  cough. 


for 


┬τ 

;t'54      AέΓυofle6lm  (f  Receipts 

For  a  Hoarfcncfs. 

TAKE  every  Night,  going  to  Reft,  half 
a  Pint  of  Mum,  at  warm  as  you  can 
drink  it  at  a  iPraught,  for  three  Nights  to- 
gether. 

For  a  Hooping-Coi^,  nterj  good. 

TAKE  a  Quart  of  Spring-water^  put  to 
it  a  large  Handful  of  Chin-cups  that 
grow  upon  Mofi,  a  large  Handful  o\  tinfct 
Hy iOTop  J  boil  it  to  a  Pint ;  ftrain  it  off,  and 
fweetcn  it  with  Sugar-candy.  Let  the  Child^ 
w  oft  as  it  coughs,  take  two  Spoonfuls  at  a 
time. 

For  a  Cough. 

TiyrAKE  a  ftrong Tea  of  Ale-hoof,  fwccten 
^^  it  with  Sugar-candy,  pour,  this  upon  a 
white  Toaft,  well  rubb'd  with  Nutmeg^  and 
drink  it  firft  and  iaft. 

Vor  a  Cohfumptive  Cough. 

TAKE  half  a  Pound  of  double-refin'd 
Sugar  finely  beat  and  fifted,  wet  this 
with  Orange-flower  Water,  and  boil  it  up  to 
a  Candy-height ;  then  ftir  in  an  Ounce  of 
Cai&a-Earth  finely  powder'd.    If  you  love 
3  Per- 


\ 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgciy.      15  j 

Perfume,  a  Graiii  of  Amber-greafe  does  well ; 
4rop  it  in  little  Cakes  on  a  Maxarine  that 
ihas  been  butter'd  and  wip'd. 

This  has  cur'djthofe  that  have  fpit  Blood. 

A  *oery  gooa  Pc^wal  Drink  for  the 

fame. 

TAKE  Quitch-grafs-roots,  two  Ounces, 
Eringo-roots  one  Ounce,  Loris  two 
Drami,  Harts-horn  one  Ounce,  Raifinsfton'd 
two  Ounces,  fix  Figs,  one  Spoonful  of  Pearl- 
Bailey,  Colts-foot  and  Sage  of  Jcrufalcm,  of 
each  one  Handfol ;  boil  thefe  in  three  Pints 
of  Water,  'till  a  third  Part  is  wafted ;  ftrain  it, 
and  diffolve  therein  two  Drams  of  Sal-pru- 
nella, and  one  Ounce  of  Syrup  of  Violet^ 
Drink  a  quarter  of  a  Pmt  often,  when  you 
cough,  or  are  dry. 

Pills  for  Shortnefs  of  Breath. 

TAKE  a  Quarter  of  an  Ounce  of  Powder 
of  Elecampane-root,  half  an  Ounce  of 
Powder  of  Liquorice,  as  much  Flower  ol 
Sone,  andSowder  of  Anif^d,  and  two 
Ounces  of  Sugar.candy  powder'd  ;  make  all 
Sto  Pills  with  a  fufficient  Q??ntity.  of  Tar  : 
Take  four  large  Pills  when  going  to  Rett. 
This  is  an  incomparable  Mcdicme  for  an 

Jnother 


┬χ 


8 


\^6     A  Colleton  of  Receipts 
Another  for  the  fame. 

XJALF  a  Pint  of  the  Juice  of  Stinging 
*  '^  Nettles ;  boil,  and  fcum  it,  ^nd  mix 
it  up  with  a^  much  clarify'd  Honey  :  Take  a 
Spoonful  firft  and  laft.  It  has  done  mighty 
Cures* 

For  an  Afthma. 

TAKE  Hy  flop- water,  and  Poppy- water, 
of  each  fire  Ounces :  Oxymel  of  Squils 
three   Ounces,    Syrup  of  Maiden-hair  one 
┬╗  Ounce  :  Take  one  Spoonful,  when  you  find 
any  Difficulty  of  Breathing. 

A  good  Drink  in  a  Confumption. 

TAKE  of  St,  JobnVworf,  the  Great 
Daify-flower┬τ  (call'd  Oxreyes)  and 
Scabious,  of  each  two  Handfuls  ;  boil  thefe 
in  a  Gallon  of  Spring- water,  'till  half  be 
wafted  ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  fweetcn  it  with 
clarify'd  Honey  to  your  Tafte :  Take  a  quar- 
ter of  a  Pint  of  this  in  half-  a  Pint  of  New 
Milk  J  make  your  Liquor  juft  fo  warm  ;  and 
take  it  in  a  Morning,  and  at  Foyr  in  the 
Afternoon. 

This  Drwk  is  highly  recommended,  and 
that  too  upon  long  Experience. 

^Pow-^ 


*  ┬╗έΑλ  "^.f^. 


v┬τi  4  ┬τέΑλ" 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery.      1 57] 
A  Powder  for   a  Conrumption. 

nTAKK   twelve  Dozen  pf  the  fmallcff  1 

-έΨι  Grigs  you  can  ge?,  wipe  them  very 
clean  ;  bake  them  in  a  well-glaz'd  Pan  aft 
Night  9  ict  it  into  the  Oven  again<,  'till  they 
are  dry  enough  to  powder  ;  ,then  make  theni 
into  ,a  very  fine  Powder,  and  take  as  much  aar 
will  lie  on  a  Half-Crown,.thjree  times  a  Day/ 
drinking  with  it  a  Glafs  of  Old  Malaga,  or 
Canary.. . 

'Tis  reftorativc,    and   well   approved   by 
many  who  have  try*d  it  with  Succcfs. 


I  f 


D 


For    Sweating    in   the  Night,  in  a  * 

Confamption. 

RINK  a  Glafs  of  Tent,  or  Old  Malaga,' 
with  a  Toaft,  every  Morning  early, 
and  Qeep  an  Hour  after  it. 

This  is  good  for  Confumptive  Perfbns,  or 
fuch  as  are  weak,  in  recovering  a  long  Sick- 
neis. 

For  a  Shortnefs   of  Breath. 

TAKE  Flower  of Brimftbne,  and  Elc- 
campanc-r.oot  finely  powdered,  of  each 
an  equal  Quantity ;  mix  this  into  an  Eleftuary 
with  clarify'd  Honey,  and  take  it  whenever 
you  cough,  or  find  it  difficult  to  breathe. 

For 


i^S     A  CotteBht  of  Receipts 
Far  an  Aftbma,  IncotnpafM.^ 

TAKE  Juice  of  Hyffop,  Juice  ofEIc- 
campane-root,  of  each  one  Pound ;  boil 
dicfc  CO  a  Symp)  with  double  their  Weight 
in  Honey  or  Sugar-candy  :  Take  one  Spoon- 
ihl  of  tins  Syrup,  in  two  Spoonfuls  of  Hyffop- 
water,  and  one  Spoonfol  of  compound  Briony- 
vrater  :  Take  this  three  times  a  Day┬τ 

For >  a  Cough  and  Shortncfs  of  Breath. 

TAKE  Elecampane-^roots,  one  Ounce; 
SafiOron,  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce ;  Ground- 
Ivy  and  Hyflbp,  of  each  one  Handful ;  boil 
this  in  two  Quarta  of  Water,  'till  'tis  above 
half  conium'd  ;  ftrain  it  out,  and  fweeten  it 
with  Sugar-candy,  and  take  three  Spt)onful8 

often. 

έΑλt 

*     Another  for  the  fame. 

CYRUP  of  Garlick  two  Spobnfuls,  or. the 
^  Goves  of  Garlick  preferv'd  ;  either  of 
them  very  good  ;  but  if  the  Breath  be  very 
bad,  'tis  beft  to  lofe  nine  or  ten  Ounces  of 
Blood,  if  the  Patient  can  bear  it,  belore  you 
begin  to  take  fb  hoc  a  Medicine. 


Another 


4 

m  Phyiick  and  Surgery.    1^9 
Another  for  the  fame, 

4 

TAKE  one  Spoonful  of  Linfeed-Oil  new 
drawn,  Firft  iand  Laft  :  This  is  goo4 
in  a  Pleurify,  or  any  other  Cough  ^  aad  may. 
be  us'd  fafely  at  any  Age. 

For  a  Chin-Cough. 

DR  Y  the  Leaves  of  Box-Tree  very  well^ 
and  powder  them  iinall ;  and  give  the 
Child  of  this  fine  Powder,  in  all  its  MeaC; 
and  Drink,  that  it  can  be  diiguisM  in  :  *Tia 
excellent  in  that  Diftcmper. 

An  adrnfobJe  Ele^uary  for  a  Cough; 

TAKE  Syrup  of Hore-hound;  Ground- 
lyy,  and  White  Poppies,  of  each  one 
Ounce,  Crabs-eyes,  one  Dram,  and  Sperma- 
ceti, half  a  Dram ;  mix  and  beat  thefe  very  fine, 
and  take  a  little  Spoonfiil,  when  your  Cough. 
ii  troubldbme,  and  at  going  to  Reft. 

For  the  Pleurify. 

TAKE  Broom-tops,  Dandelion,  Red  Pop- 
pies, and  Hy flop,  of  each  two  Handfuls 
flired ;  Flax-feed  bruised,  two  Ounces  j  four 
Ounces  of  frelh  Or┬τoge-peel>  an4  nine  large 

BaUs 


/ 


(       ' 


t^o    A  Colk┬μiiott  of  Receipts 

Balls  of  freih  Stone-horfe-Dung;  to  thefe  In- 
gredients, put  a  Gallon  of  Milk,  and  diftil  it 
in  a  cold  Mill :  *Tis  an  incomparable  Water, 
and  may  be  drank  freely  of.  If  you  think  it 
too  cold,  add  a  Spoonful  of  Sack  or  White- 
wine,  in  eyery  Glafi. 

Another* 

MAKE  a  Poffct-Drink  pretty  clear, 
'  witK  fmafl  Ale  and  White-wine  ;  and' 
to  a  Quart  of  that,  put  three  Balls  of  Horfe- 
dting,  and  one  Ounce  of  Angelica-feeds  j  let 
it  ^nfufe  three  Hours  ;  firain  and  drink  of- 
ten, half  a  Pint  at  a  time  :  This  has  the 
fame  Virtue,  and  is  fooner.  prepar'd  ;  but  'tis 
fo'vcry  naiifeous,  that  many  Stomachs  can- 

n<it  bear  it.,     .  ^ 

έΨι* 
.f  \  -  t       - 

An  excelknt  W^atcr  for  the  Stone-   . 
,  Choliek.    . 

pUT  four  Pounds  9f  Haw- berries  bruls'd, 
^  into  four  Quarts  of  ftrong  White- wine  ; 
let  it  fteep  twenty-four  Hours  ;  then  draw 
ofiF,  in  a  cold  Still,  two  Quarts  of  very  ftrong  ; 
and  what  runs  after,  keep  by  itfelf :  A  quar-^ 
ter  of  a  Pint  of  the  Strongeft  has  given  Eafe 
in  very  bad  Fits  at  ohce  taking  ;  but  if  it- 
comes  up,  you  muft  repeat  |t,  /till  it  doer 
ftay. 


/┬╗  Phyfick  a┬╗^  Surgery.      i6t 
For  the  Cholick. 

SLICE  one  Ounce  of  the  very  beft  Rhu┬τ 
barb  you  can  get,  into  a  Q^rt  of  Sack  ; 
Jet  it  infufe  twelve  Hours  at  leaft ;  then  drink 
four  large  Spoonfuls,  and  fill  your  Bottle  up 
again  :  Drink  this  Quantity  once  a  Day,  for 
fix  Weeks,  or  two  Months,  at  leaft  :  When 
your  Rhubarb  has  loft  its  Virtue,  you  muft 
put  frelh.  This  has  cur'd  Ibme  People,  who 
could  not  find  Eafe  in  Opiats,  nor  the  Bath  : 
It  muft  be  conftantly  cdntinu'd,  'till  the 
Bowels  and  Blood  are  ftrengthen'd  :  It  has 
done  fuch  miraculous  Cures,  where  eydi 
Laudanum  could  not,  that  'tis  impoifible  to 
praife  it  ib  much  as  it  deierves. 

I  do  therefore  adyife  every  Ferfon  ┬μo  af- 
Aided,  for  their  own  fakes,  to  make  the 
harmlefs  Experiment. 

For  the  Cholick. 

TAKE  a  Quart  of  double-diftillM  Am- 
feed-water ;  infufe  in  it  one  Ounce  of 
Hiera-picra  j  ftop  it  very  clofe,  and  keep  it 
near  a  Fire,  where  it  muft  ftand  Ibme  Days  ; 
fliake  the  Glafs  twice  every  Day :  Take  three 
or  four  Spoonfuls  of  this  in  a  Fit,  when  'tis 
new  ;  lefs  will  ferve  after  it  has  ftood  a  Year 
or  two. 

For  a  Convulfivc  Cholick* 

TAKE      Yellow     tranfparent    Amber, 
groily  powdefd }  Ginger  minc'd  j  mix, 

L  and 


\6i     A  CoUefHon  cf  tleceipts 

and  fill  a  Pipe  ;  fmdke  three  or  four^  vihUt 
in  Faih^  and  always  going  t6  Reft. 

Another  for  the  Chrolick. 

BOl  L  four  Spoonfuls  of  right  good  Irijb 
Ulquebaugh,  in  half  a  Knt  of  Ale,  flice 
in  a  little  Ginger,  and  fweeten  with  Syrup  of 
Rhubarb :  This  is  a  pretty  certain  Cure^  and 
feldom  fails  to  give  prefent  Eaie. 

For  the  Cholick. 

TA  K  E  the  thin  Peel  that  comes  off  the 
Kernels  of  a  ripe  Wallnut,  dry'd,  and ' 
beat  to  Powder ;  the  thin  Yellow  Peel  of 
Orange  powderM  ;  6f  each  a  like  Quantity  : 
Mix  it  in  a  Gup  of  hot  Ale,  and  ^rink  it  up^ 
A  imall  S|)66nful  of  the  Powddfs,  mix'd,  is 
a  Dofe. 

For  a  Stitch  in  the  Side. 

TAKE  Powder  ^i  Angelica-feed,  and  a 
large  Acorn  dry'd  and  powdered,  of 
each  a  like  Quantity  ;  drink  afler  it  a  Glafs 
of  91ack  Cherry  Water. 

A  'Poflet-Drink  for  a  'Coiigh. 

qPAKE  one  Htodful  of  Hyffop,  four 
Sprigs  of  Minth,  as  much  Savoury  and 
Angelica,  one  Handful  of  ftonM  Rajifins,  and 
twelve  Figs  j  infufe  all  theft  in  three  Pints 
of  clear  foffet-dririk  ;  add,  when  flrain'd, 
one  Ounce  of  Syrup  of  Maidch-hair,  as  much 
Syrup  of  Violets :  Prink  ofen. 

-         .  .  <ro 


έΑλ    in  Phyfick  and  Surgery,      vdj 
To  Cure  Deafiiefs. 

TAKE  clean  fine  Black  Wool,  and  dip 
it  in  Civet,  put  it  into  the  Ear  j  as  it 
dries,  which  in  a  Day  or  two  it  will,  dip  it 
again  ^  and  keep  it  moiften'd  in  the  Ear  for 
three  Weeks  or  a  Month. 

Another^ 

TA  K  E  an  equal  Quantity  of  good  Hun^ 
garyWzicXj  and  Oil  of  bitter  Almonds  j 
beat  them  together,  and  drop  three  Drops  in 
the  Ears,  going  to  Bed  ;  ftop  them  with 
Black  Wool,  and  repeat  this  nine  Nights  at 
leaft.  . 

Another  for  a  Pain  in  the  Ear. 

THE  Juice  of  Mountain  Sage,  Oil  of 
Fennel,"  Oil  6f  bitter  Alm6nds,  Oil  of 
Olives  ;  take  an  equal  Quantity  of  each,  and. 
mix  thenf  well  together  {  drop  into  the  pain'd 
Ear  three  Drops,  for  three  Nights,  'Twill 
eafe  and  draw  out  any  Impofthume,  if  that 
be  the  Caufe. 

For  a  Pain  in  the  Ear* 

nPAKE  half  a  Pint  of  Claret,  a  quarter  ' 
"*έΑλ  of  a  Pint  of  Wine- Vinegar  ;  put  in  Sage, 
Rue,  and  Rofcmary  ;  let  it  boil  up  ;  put  it 
into  a  new  Mug,  and  hold  your  Ear  clofc, 
fi>  that  the  Steam  may  be  fure  to  go  in  :  As 
it  cools,  heat  it  again  and  again  ;  and  when 

hi  the 


B 


164     A  CoJkdion  of  Receipts 

the  Strength  is  pretty  well  wafted^    wrap 
your  Head  very  w^rm,  and  go  intp.  Bed. 

For  a  violent  Cbolick  Paiti  in  the  Siclc. 

MIX  an  equal  Quantity  of  Spirit  of  La^ 
vender^  Spirit  of  Sal-Armoniack,  and 
Hungary- water  j  rub  it  in  with  a  very  hot 
Hand,  and  lay  a  Flannel  on  as  hot  as  yoii 
can  bear  it.     Repeat  this  often. 

For  a  Blow,  or  Hurt  in  the  Eye. 

EAT  the  Leaves  of  Eye-bright  with  a 
rotten  Apple  ^  lay  it  on  the  Eye  as  a 
Foultis  :  Repeat  it  as  it  grows  dry.  I  ihink 
the  Juice  of  the  Eye-bright  is  beft. 

A  ctrtain  Remedy  to  take  Fire  out  cf 

a  Burn. 

EAT  an  Apple  with  SaUad  Oil,  'till  ^tis 
a  Foultis  pretty  fbft ;  bind  it  on  the  Part ; 
and  as  it  dries,  lay  on  frefli.  You  muft  be 
fure  to  pare,  core,  and  beat  your  Apple  well, 
ibr  fear  of  breaking  the  Skin  of  the  Burn  : 
But  if  the  Skin  be  off,  there  is  not  any  thing 
in  Nature  fo  fure  to  take  out  the  Fire. 

Jn  excellent  Ointment  for  a  Pain  in  the 

Side. 

EAT  two  Ounces  of  Cummin-feed  very 
fine ;  fift  it,  and  put  to  it  two  Spoonfuls 
of  Capon-grcafc,  and  two  Spoonfuls  of  Lin- 
feed  Oil  J  make  it  hot  over  the  Fire,  and 

anoint 


B 


B 


iff  Phyfick  and  Surgery,       16^ 

anoint  the  Side  with  it :  Dip  a  Flannel  in 
the  Ointment,  and  lay  it  on  as  hot  a3  you 
can  endure  it. 

For  a  Plcurify  and  Fever. 

AFTER  Bleeding  once  or  twice,  as  there  ?. 
is  Occafion,  let  the  Patient  take  an  Ounce 
of  Linfeed  Oil  new  drawn  ;  fweeten  it  with 
Syrup  of  Lemons  j  fliake  them  together  ^tiH 
they  mix  ;  and  let  this  Quantity  be  taken 
every  four  Hours  :  At  going  to  Reft,  let 
them  take  thirty  Grains  of  Gafcoign  Powder, 
with  a  compofing  Draught.  They  muft  for- 
bear Malt  Drink,  and  take  care  they  do  not 
catch  Cold. 

This  has  done  great  Cures,  when  taken  in 
time,  and  will  prevent  the  Diftemper  &Hing 
upon  the  Lungs. 

for  a  Loofenefs/ 

TAKE^  two  Drams  of  Ipccacuana  ;  de- 
cod  it  in  an  equal  Quantity  of  Claret 
and  Water ;  let  it  boil  qiore  than  half  in  half 
away  ;  ftrain  it,  and  add  one  Spoonful  of 
Oil ;  give  it  in  aClyfter  to  the  Party  afflided. 
If  the  Patient  is  weak,  or  a  Child,  you  muft 
infufe  lefs  of  the  Root }  two  Drams  being  a 
full  Qiiantity  for  a  ftrong  Man.         . 

It  has  cur'd  the  moft  violent  Illneis  of 
that  Sort,  and  was  recommended  on  the  ┬μx^ 
perience  of  a  worthy  and  ingenious  Phyfi^ 
cian. 

L  3  75^6 


1 66     A  Colk^ion  of  Receipts 

The  hefi  Way  of  hurning  Claret  fsr  a 

Loofenefs. 

TAKE  a  large  Quart  Bottle,  tbat  will 
hold  more  than  a  Quart  of  Wine  i  put 
to  that  Quantity  half  an  Ounce  of  Cinnamon^ 
four  large  Blades  of  Mace^  and  a  large  Nut- 
meg flk'd  ;  put  a  Cork  into  the  Bottle,  to 
keep  in  the  Steam  ;  but  don't  ftop  it  cloie 
or  hard,  for  fear  of  breaking  ;  fet  thb  Bottle 
of  Wine  and  Spice  into  a  Skellet  of  cold  Wa- 
ter, atid  let  it  (immer  'tiU  the  Wine  is  a  little 
wafted  ;  ^fweeten  it  with  Loa^Sugar,  and 
drink  onen,  if  the  Patient  have  a  cold  decayed 
Stomach,  afid  no  Fever. 

For  a  Loofencfs* 

TA  K  ┬μ  an  Ounce  of  Cinnamon,  and  as 
much  Ginger  ;  flice  both  fmall,  and 
B:rcw  it  ort  a  Chafing-difti  of  Coals,  over 
which  let  the  Patient  fit  as  long  as  the  Fume 
lafts, 

For  A  Loofcnefe. 

nPAKE  three  large  Nutmegs,  and  the 
X  Weight  of  them  in  Cinnamon  ;  grate 
and  beat  the  Spice  extremely  fine  ;  make  it 
into  a  moift  Pafte  with  new-laid  Eggs,  dry 
them  in  little  Cakes,  in  a  Shovel,  over  a 
gentle  Fire :  Eat  the  Bignefs  of  a  Half  Crown, 
jirft  and  laft,  and  at  four  in  the  Afternoon. 

Another 


ht  Phyficic  ofid  Surgeryl      16/ 
Another  for  a  Lopfciicls* 

TAKE  4  Quart  of  new  Mil  Wand  ikti\ 
on  the  Fire  'till  it  boU  ;  then  fcum  it^ 
and  let  it  boil ;  and  fcun^  it  agdn,  as  lon^  as 
any  Scum  rifes  ;,  when  W&  alm6i(t  cold,  to 
the  clear  Milk,  put  two?-penny-wojrth  of 
Aqua-VitaB,  and  let  it  il^nd  :  'Twill  jelly, 
and  keep  (in  a  cool  Vcflfl  aqd  fl^cf)  twp  or 
three  Day┬τ,    It  l^as  dope  grpat  Cures. 

Cionamon^Water,  for  a  Loofenefs  and 

Fey?r. 

BOIL  a  Poqnd  of  Pearl-Barley,  and  fix 
Ounce;  of  Plantain-feecJ,  in  S^  Quarts  of 
W^fer  ;  when  both  are  teuijer,  popr  it  upon 
eight  Ounces  of  Cinnamon  ;  }et  it  infufe  all 
l^ight,  and  nm  Day  dr^w  if  off  in  9  cold  ^ 
Still ;  leb  the  Patients  drink  of  this  a$  often 
as  they  pleafe  :  If  they  like  it  fweet^  pint  in 
double-refin'd  Sugar. 

For  a  Loofcncls  and  Gripes. 

MIX  up  twenty  Grains  of  Rhubarb,  three 
Drops  of  Oil  of  Cipnamon,  and  three 
Drop?  of  pil  of  Juniper,  in  near  a  Dra^i  of 
good  Venice  Treacle  ;  make  it  into  a  Bolus, 
and  take  it  all  over  Night.  Next  Morning, 
in  the  working,  drink  warm  PoiTet-drink,  in 
which  Mallows  have  been  infus'd. 

This  has  done  great  Cures,  when  the  Dis- 
temper has  been  very  dangerous. 

L  4  ufnothr 


^ 


I 


p 


m 

J  68      A  ColkSiiott  <f  Receipts 
Another  for  a  Loofchcfs  and  Gripes. , 

NFUSE  a  Pound  of  Poppies,  in  half  a 
Pint  of  Spirit  of  Wine ;  take  a  large  Spoon- 
ful of  this  Liquor,  with  fix  Drops  of  Oil  of 
Junipef,  in  a  Glafs  of  Black  Cherry  Water, 
fwecten'd  with  double-refin'd  Sugar.  Twill 
give  Eafe  in  extreme  Pain  and  Torture. 

Nbte^  You  muft  niix  your  Oil  with  the  pow- 
derM  Sugar,  before  you  put  it  into  the  Liquor, 
or  ^twill  fwim  on  the  Top,  and  not  mix. 

For  the  fame. 

UT  a  large  Spoonful  of  good  Plantain-lc^d 
into  half  a  Pint  of  Spring- water  ;  boil  it 
half  away,  and  ftrain  it  out ;  fweeten  it  with 
double^refin'd  Sugar,  and  drink  it  all. 

It  often  cures  at  once ;   but  muft  be  re- 
peated, if  there  be  Occafion. 

To  help  allot  WCoftive  Habit^Body. 

PRESERVE  green  Wallnuts,  before  the 
Shell  is  hard ;  after  they  have  lain  a  Day 
and  a  Night  in  Water,  firft  pricked  full  of 
Holes  ;  boil  and  fliift  the  Water  often,  'till 
they  are  tender  ;  ftick  in  each  a  Bit  of  can- 
dy'd  Orange  Peel,  and  take  their  Weight  in 
a  fweet  Lisbon  Sugar  ;  boil  them  up,  and 
take  two,  three,  or  four  of  thefe,  when 
going  to  Reft. 

They  are  a  gentle,  wholefome,  and  certain 
Purge. 

jinotberl 


i< 


t  ' 


in  Phy  fick  and  Surgery.'       1 6g 
Another. 

DISTIL  a  Quantity  of  Wood-fdrrel 
Water  in  the  Spring,  and  fwccten  it 
with  Syrup  of  Violets  :  An  Ounce  of  Syrup 
to  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Wetter,  is  a  Dole  for 
any  body^  and  may  be  fafely  taken,  even  in 
a  Fever,  or  Lying-in  :  A  lefs  Quantity  for  a 
Child. 

Another. 

ROASTED  Apples,  with  Carraway- 
Comfits,  eaten  conftantly  every  Night, 
have  been  the  Method  of  a  Gentleman  of 
four-fcore,  who  ha6  hardly  ever  taken  other 
Phyfick,  or  omitted  this,  for  fifty  Years,  and 
never  felt  the  Gout,  or  'Stone,  or  any  other 
Diftemper  incident  to  old  Age. 

Another. 

BO  I L  a  few  Mallows  in  one  Porringer  of 
Water-gruel ;  ftrain  it  out,  and  inftead 
of  Salt,  put  in  a  Pugil  of  Cream  of  Tartar : 
Let  this  be  your  Morning's  Draught. 

Another. 

f^NE  Spoonful  of  Syrup  ofPeach-Bloflbnjs^ 
^<^  taken  in  a'Glafs  of  the  Water  diftiird 
from  the  Leaves,  or  in  which  the  Leaves  and 
Worm-feed  have  been  decoded,  is  a  moft 
fafe  and  certain  McdKine  for  the  Worms  in 
Children. 

AD- 


[i^o] 


rs,>^,v\,^<:'^:'^┬╗"^>;^. 


έβο 


ADDITIONS  w  Part  I. 


2o  make  Catchup,  that  will  keep  good 

Twenty  Tears. 

A  K  E  a  Gallon  of  ftrong  ftalc  Beer ; 
one  Pound  of  Anchovies,  walh'd, 
and  clean'd  from  the  Guts  ;  half  an 
Ounce  of  Mate  ;  half  an  Ounce  of 
Cloves  ;  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce  of  Pepper  j 
three  large  Races  of  Ginger  ;  one  Found  of 
Shallots  i  one  Quart  of  flap  Mufhrooms,  well 
rubbM  and  pickM  :  Boil  all  thefe  over  a  flow 
Fire,  'till 'tis  half  wafted  j  then  ftrain  it  thrq' 
a  Flannel  Ba|^  let  it  ftand  'till  'tis  quite  cold  ; 
then  bottle  and  ftop  it  very  clofe.  This  is 
thought  to  exceed  what  is  brought  from  In- 
4ia  ;  and  muft  be  allow'd  the  moft  agreeable 
Relilh,  that  can  be  given  to  Fifli  Sauce :  One 
Spoonful  to  a  Pint  of  melted  Butter,  gives 
Tafte  and  Colour,  above  all  other  Ingredients. 

Nott^  That  the  ftronger  and  ftaley  the  Beer 
is,  the  better  the  Catchup  will  be. 

To  make  Catchup  of  Muflirooms. 

AKE  a  Stew-pan  full  of  the  large  flap 
Muflirooms,  and  the  Tips  of  ?hofe  you 

wipe 


T 


*  J 


i 

I 


Addition^ to  the  Receipt Sy  &c.  171 

wipe  for  Pickling  ;  fet  it  on  a  flow  Fire, 
with  a  Handful  of  Salt ;  they  will  make  a 
great  deal  of  Liquor,  which  you  muft  ilrain, 
and  put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Shallots, 
two  Cloves  of  Garlick,  fome  Pepper,  Ginger, 
Cloves,  Mace,  and  a  Bay-leaf  j  boil,  and 
fcum  it  very  well ;  when  'tis  quite  cold, 
bottle,  and  flop  it  very  clofe. 

Paris  Pies. 

TpAKE  a  Capon,  and  parboil  it  a  little  ; 
έΑλ*-  bone,  and  skin  it  J  then  flired  it  extreme-- 
ly  fine  ;  flired  alfo  as  fmall,  one  Found  of 
Beef-fuet  j  beat  a  Pound  of  blanch'd  Almonds, 
with#  ┬μb  much  Sack,  and  Orange-flower  Wa- 
ter, as  will  keep  them  from  oiling  j  feafbn 
all  with  Nutmeg,  Cloves,  and  Mace,  a  little 
Salt,  and  twice  as  much  fine  Sugar,  as  there 
is  Spice  and  Salt ;  mix  all  very  weB  together, 
and  make  them  into  little  pufT-pafte  Patties, 
to  bake  or  fry  :  Before  you  clofe  them,  you 
mufl:  lay  candy 'd  Orange,  Lemon,  and  Citron 
Peel,  in  thin  SYicts^  with  Bits  of  Marrow, 
and  the  Kernels  of  Piftachia  Nuts. 

NotCy  That  large  Chicken  does  as  well  as 
Capon,  and  is  an  exaft  Qijantity  for  half  the 
Suet  and  Almond. 

έΑλ  A  Sceake  Florendinc. 

UT  a  Neck  of  Mutton  into  Steakes,  take 

off  the  Skin,  and  fome  of  the  Fat  at  the 

thick  End  j  fcafon  it  with  Pepper  and  Salt ; 

put 


c 


17*     Additions  to  the  Receipts 

pat  into  the  Diflt  one  Anchovy  fhred  fmaU^ 
a  little  Nutmeg  flic'd  thin,  and  a  little 
Thyme  (bred  fine  ;  lay  in  the  Steakes,  and 
a  Pint  of  Oifters,  fifty  Balls  of  Forc'd-meat, 
half  a  Pint  of  Claret,  and  as  much  Water  ; 
GO?er  the  Difli  with  a  Puff-crafty  and  bake 
it. 

Beef  A^la-mode,  to  eat  hot. 

^  AKE  the  Round  of  a  Buttock  of  Beef 
-έΨιέΑλ  from  the  Undcr-fide,  let  it  be  about 
three  Inches  thick  ;  if  you  like  it  red,  let  it 
lie  a  Day  and  Night  rubb'd  over  with  Salt- 
petre ;  when  that  is  done^  take  off  the  Fat^ 
and  chop  it  with  Parfly,*  Thyme,  Sweet- 
marjoram,  and  a  little  Onion,  (if  you  like  it) 
add  to  this  Pepper,  Salt,  Cloves,  and  Mace  ; 
work  it  up  in  Form  of  Saulagcs ;  then  cut 
fbme  fat  Bacon  into  Slips  of  the  fame  Thick- 
nefs,  and  cover  it  over  with  the  Salt  and 
Spice,  without  the  Herbs  ;  cut  the  Beef  into 
Holes,  about  two  Inches  diftant  from  each 
other,  and  quite  thro'  th^  Beef;  fluff  into 
one  the  fpic'd  Slips  of  Bacon,  and  into  the 
ether  the  ForcM-meat,  'till  all  are  full  5  ftrew 
Salt  all  over  it ;  put  it  into  your  Stew-pan, 
with  half  a  Pound  of  Butter ;  fet  it  on  a  quick 
Fire,  that  it  may  be  brown,  and  harden  on  the 
Outfide  ;  turn  and  flower  it,  that  both  Sides 
may  be  alike ;  then  put  half  a  Pint  of  Water 
to  it,  and  cover  it  clofe  ;  put  it  over  a  flow 
Fire,  that  it  ipay  fiew  leifurely  feyen  or  eight 

Hours  ; 


I' 


in  Cookery,  ^c.         175 

Hours ;  when  it  grows  dry,  add  a  Cup  of 
Water  or  Gravy.  The  Liquor  'tis  ftew'd  in, 
if  clear'd  from  Fat,  and  fliook  up  with  Claret^ 
is  the  Sauce  to  it  ;  to  which  you  may  add 
Mufiirooms^  Sweetbreads,  Artichoke-bottoms^ 
or  what  you  pleaie  for  Ornaments  ;  but  the 
Gsavy  and  Claret  are  fufficient  to  make  it  as 
fayoury  a  Diih  as  can  be  eat,  and  'tis  as  good 
to  ilice  cold  as  eat  hot.    * 

Pan-Puddings,  to  fry. 

TO  a  full  Pint  of  Milk,  yoii  may  put  near 
three  quarters  of  a  Pound  of  Flburj  fix 
Ounces  of  Beef-fuet,  ftircd  very  fine,  and 
fifced  thro*  a  Cullande'r  ;  fix  Ounces  of  Cur- 
rants, pickM,  walh'd,  and  plump'd  ;  a  little 
Salt,  a  little  Nutmeg,  and  a  little  Sugar,  if 
you  like  it,  but  they  are  lighteft  without ; 
three  or  four  Eggs,  beat  and  ftrain'd  :  Mix 
all  well  together,  fry  them  in  a  large  Quan- 
tity of  Lard  or  Dripping,  and  make  them 
little  bigger  than  Fritters. 

A  Spanifli  Potatoc  or  Parfnip  Fritter. 

np  AKE  two  large  Spanijh  or  Portugal  Po- 
-έΨι*  tatoes  ;  boil,  |^el,  and  fcrape  them  ; 
beat  them  with  four  Eggs,  leave  out  two  of 
the  Whites,  a  large  Spoonful  of  Cream,  and 
as  much  Sack  as  Cream,  a  little  grated  Nut- 
meg :  Beat  all  for  one  Hour,  till  they  arc 
very  light,  and  fry  them  in  a  large  Quan- 
tity of  Lard.  The  Sauce  that  is  ordered 
3  for 


174     Additiom  to  the  Receipts 

for  them,  is  melted  Butter,  Sack,  and  Sugar} 
but  Lemon  and  Sugar  give  more  Quickneis  to 
the  Fritter^  and  are  lefs  apt  to  difagree  with 
the  Stbmach.  Nate^  That  Farfnips  are  aa 
good  as  Potatoes.       * 

To  hoil  Gardcn^Things  green. 

VrOU  muft  be  fure  the  Water  boils,  when 

*  you  put  in  your  Peas,  Greens,  French- 
beans,  or  Afparagus  j  when  they  are  in, 
make  it  boil  very  faft  again  ;  you  need  not 
cover  them,  but  watch  them,  and  may  be 
afiur'd  they  are  enough,  when  they  begin  to 
fink  to  the  Bottom,  provided  they  have 
boird  all  the  time  :  Take  them  out  as  foon 
as  they  fink,  or  they  immediately  change 
Colour. 

To  fickle  Lemons. 

nPAKE  large  Lemons,  and  grate  off  a 
-έΨι  little  of  the  yellow  Rind  ;  make  eight 
Scores  in  the  Peel  long- ways ;  then  lay  them 
in  the  Sun,  and  take  care  no  Rain  comes  (o 
them  for  fix  Weeks,  when  they  will  be  dry ; 
put  them  into  a  Jar,  when  you  have  fiU'd 
them  with  Muftard-feed ;  pour  Muftard-feed, 
and  White-wine  Vinegar  over  them,  with 
fome  flic'd  Ginger  in  it ;  put  as  mueh  of  this 
Pickle  as  will  cover  them. 

To  fickle  Artichoke-Bottoms. 

TTAKE  Artjchokts,    before  they  are  at 

*  their  full  Growth  j  boil  them  fit  to  eat, 

then 


m  Cookery,  ^c.  17  y 

then  pull  off  the  Leaves  qdck,  and  put  the 
Bottoms  into  cold  Water  ;  fliift  them  twice, 
let  them  lie  twelve  Hours  in  the  third  Wa- 
ter ;  then  wipe  dry,  and  put  them  into  Jars, 
arid  cover  them  with  a  Pickle  made  of 
'  White-wine,  and  White-wine  Vinegar,  one 
Part  Wine,  two  Parts  Vinegar ;  half  an 
Ounce  of  Mace  ;  as  much  Cloves  and  Pep- 
per, ail  whole :  Boil  it  i^,  and  let  it  iland 
^ill  'tis  cold,  before  you  put  it  to  the  Bot┬τ 
toms. 

STo  hep  Wallnuts  good  all  the  Tear. 

PU  T  them  into  a  Jar,  on  a  Layer  of  Se┬╗ 
Sand  ;  ftrew  Sand  again,  and  io  another 
Layer  of  Nuts,  'till 'tis  full,  and  be  ikre  they 
do  not  touch  each  other  in  any  of  the  Layers^ 
when  you  would  ufe  them,  lay  them  in  warm. 
Water,  fliifting  it  as  it  cools,  for  an  Hour  ; 
then  rub  them  dry,  and  they  will  peel  well, 
and  eat  fweet.  Lemons  will  keep  (!hus  co- 
ver'd  with  Sand,  longer  than  any  other  way> 
you  can  try.         ^ 

^0  keep  Goofebcrries  for  Tarts  aU  the 

Tear. 

rjATHER  them  at  their  fuUGrowth, 
^^  before  they  turn  from  the  green  Look  j 
top  and  tail  them;  then  put  them  into  large- 
mbuth'd  Bottles  ^  put  Corks  in  the  Bottles, 
and  fet  them  into  a  Kettle  of  Water  up  to 
the  Neck ;  but  take  care  the  Cork  be  not 


/ 
/ 


1/6     Additions  to  the  Receipts 

wet ;  let  the  Water  heat  over  a  flow  Fire, 
'till  the  Goofeberrics  begm  to  look  white  or 
break  ;  fet  the  Bottle  on  a  Cloth,  wfien  they 
come  hot  out  of  the  Kettle,  becaufe  'tis  apt 
to  break  :  Wheij  they  are  cold,  drive  me 
Corks  hard  in,  and  pitch. them  down. 

To  hep  Whitc-Bullicc  or  Pear-Plumbs. 

GATHER  them  when  full  grown,  and 
l^efore  they  turn  ;  pick  out  the  largeilt^ 
and  to  the  finall  ones,  put  as  much  cold  Wa- 
ter as  will  make  Liquor  to  cover  the  fine 
ones  ;  let  thefe  boil  gently  'till  they  are  ibft, 
then  ftrain  the  Liquor  from  them,  and  let  it 
fiand  'till  'tis  cool  enough  to  bear  your  Fin- 
ger i  then  put  your  large  ones  into  this  Fickle^ 
'till  they  are  quite  cold  ;  thett  you  muft  put 
them  into  large-neck'd  Bottles,  or  imall  Jars^ 
and  lay  Paper,  cut  fit,  upon  them,  over 
which  pour  melted  Butter,  or  rather  fweef; 
Oil :  If  you  are  careful  in  taking  it  olF,  this 
Method  feldom  fails. 

To  keep  Damafceus  for  Tarts. 

'^  O  U  muft  make  a  Syrup  of  a  Pound  and 
-*έΑλ  half  of  Sugar,  to  a  Quart  of  Water ;  boil 
and  fcum  it, very  clear;  when  cold,  put  them 
into  the  Syrup,  fet  them  down  on  a  Ibfit 
Fire,  and  keep  them  down  in  the  Syrup,  an4 
gently  ftirring  'till  they  are  fcalding  hot ; 
then  fet  them  off  'till  cold  j  put  them  into 
little  Pots  or  Jars,  fuch  as  you  can  ufe  at  once ; 

for 


^     . 


in  PhyCick  'and  Surgery.       i  y>^ 

for  when  any  of  thefe  Fruits  are  expofed  to  the 
Air,  they  fpoil  in  a  Day  or  two,  unlefs  fuch 
Sweet-meats  as  ybii  prefer ve' with  full  Weight 
of  Sugar  :  Cover  thefe  over  as  the  other,  with 
melted  Butter  or  Oil ;  Beef-fuet  is  hard,  afid 
apter  to  crack  at  ths  Edge  in  Winter. 


MEDICINE.. 

#    έΑλ  έΑλ'έΑλit 

Dr.  Wadenfield'^  Remedy  for  I^unacy^  ,^ith 
which  a  P  erf  on  of^ality  cured  T!hreefcore:  ' 

^T^AKE  of -Ground-Ivy  three  latge  Handfuls 
-έΨι-  fhred  fmaH,  boil  it  in  t^o  Quarts  of 
.White-wihCj  'till  -two  Parts  in  three  be  con- 
fumed.  έΑλ  Strain,  and  add  to  it  fix  .Ounces  of  the 
beft  Sallad  Oili  boil  it  up  to  art  Ointment  ^  Jet 
the  Patient's  Hgad  be  fhaved,  rub  and  chafe  it 
'  with  the  Ointment  made  warm.     Then  take 

frefti  Herbs,  bruifed  and  applied  plaifterwife, 
tying  it  on  theiTop  of  the  Head  very  hard. 
Repcdt  this  e.very  other  Day,  ten  or  twelv^ 
times  \  give  thfe  Patient  three  Spoonfuls  of  the 
Juij:e  of  Grcfattd-Ivy  every  Morning  failing, 
in  a  Glafs  of  Beer  for  the  firft  ten  Days.' 

J^e  Infallible  PoMder  for  Shbrtnefs  of*  Breathy 
efpeciully  in  Thung  Ladies. 

I'^ARE    of  Carraway   and    Anifeed,  each 
'     orie  Ounce,  Liquorice  half  an  Ounce,' 
one  "krgc  Nutnieg,  one  Ounce  of  prepared 

-     '  M  Steel, 


4f 


1 7^      Additions  to  the  Receipts 

Steel,  and  two  Ounces  of  double-refin'd  Su- 
gar ;  reduce  all  to  a  very  fine  Powder,  and 
take  a$  much  asVill  lit  on  a  Shilling,  in  the 
Morning  lifting,  and  at  five  in  the  After^- 
noon,  ufing  Exercife. 

A  Confumptivc  Syrup. 

TAKE  a  Score  of  ShelUSnails,  wafh  them 
clean,  and  crack  the  Shells,  put  them 
into  a  large  Jeily-bag,  with  half  a  Found  of 
White  Sugar-candy  beat  and  ftrew'd  among 
them ;  let  this  hang  twelve  Hours  at  leaft, 
'till  all  the  Sugar-candy  be  melted  and  drop 
out,  of  which  you  muft  take  a  large  Tea* 
Spoonful  firft  and  laft,  and  whenever  your 
Cough  is  troublelbme*  This  is  a  quicker  and 
more  efifeftual  Medicine  than  Snail-water. 

^e  Famous  French  Method  fw  the  Bite 

of  a  Mad  Dog. 

TAKE  the  Leaves  of  Rue,  Vervain,  the 
lefler  Sage,  Plantain,  Polypody,  Com- 
mon Wormwood,  Mint,  Motherwort,  Balm, 
Betony,  St.  John's-wort,  and  the  Icfler  Cen- 
taury, of  each  an  equal  Quantity  ;  gather 
thefe  in  June^  tie  them  up  in  little  Bundles,, 
which  are  to  be  wrapp'd  up  in  Papers,  and 
hung  in  the  Air  where  'tis  ihady  ;  whea 
wanted,  you  are  to  pound  them  io  fine  as 
to  fift  through  a  Silk  or  Lavsrn  Sieve.  The 
Bofe  is  from  two,  to  three  drams  of  this 
Powder,  with  ()alf  a  Dram  of  the  Powder  of 

Vipers* 


in  Phyiick  and  Sutgery^      ifp 

Vijicrs-flelhi  in  a  Glaft  of  good  White- wine, 
in  a  Morning  fading^  for  jfifcy-two  Days  to- 
gether J  if  the  Bite  is  near  the  Head  or  Face^ 
you  muft  double  the  Dofc.  In  this  you  arc 
cautioned  agaihft  wafliing  the  Wound  with 
Water j  which  coiltradids  bur  BngUfh  Prafticc  έΑλ 
of  going  to  the  Sea  for  that  Purpofe.  How- 
ever, fince  ^tis  neceffaty  to  cleanfe  oflf"  the 
Foam  or  Blood,  Camphirated  Spirit,  ot  Spi- 
rit of  Myrrh  is  better  to  wafli  with  :  I  let 
down  this  becaufe  highly  recoffimended  ^  but 
am,  from  late  Experience,  convinced,  that 
ho  Remedy  is  fo  fure,  ┬╗5  the  Liver  of  th^ 
Dog ;  dry  and  powder  it  inimediately,  and 
give  from  three  to  fix  Ounces  of  it,  in  Wine^ 
Syrupj  or  any  way  you  can  bcft  get  the  Pa- 
tient to  fwallow  it.  And  depend  upon  it,  'tis 
the  beft  Medicine  yet  difcovered  for  that  fad 
Malady.  Take  the  Quantity  within  twenty- 
fpiir  Hours,  if  {toifible. 

jiif  outward  Application  fir  a  Chin^ 

Coughs 

MIX  an  equd  Qpantity  of  Spirit  of  Hart'ji 
Horn,  and  Oil  of  Amber^  not  exceed- 
ing half  ah  Ounce  at  a  Time,  becauie  in  ofteti 
Openings  it  decays.  With  this  anoint  the 
Palms  of  the  Hands,  Pit  c^  the  Stomach,  aind 
Soles  of  the  Feet,  for  a  Month  together  j 
and  let  no  Water  c6me  iiigh'  any  of  the  l?iart5f 
anointed  :  The  Fingers  and  Backs  of  the 
Haiidi  may  be  wip'd  with  a  ^et  Cloth. 

M  ┬τ  Fir 


I 

1 80      Additions  to  the  Receipts 
For  St.  Anthony '5  Fire. 

TTAKE  one  Part  fine  Spirit  or  Oil  of 
έΑλέΨι"  Turpentine,  and  one  Part  finely  redify'd 
Spirit' of  Wine  ;  mix  and  Ihake  the  Glafs^ 
when  you  ufe  it,  anointing  the  Face  gently 
with  a  Feather,  or  your  Finger,  not  covering 
it*  Do  it  often,  and  it  cures  in  a  Day  or  two; 
but  take  care  not  to  come  near  your  Eyes. 
It  fqftens  and  heals,  tho'  at  firft  you  thinjc  it 
inflames..  You  may  put  more  or  Icfs  Spirit, 
of  Wine,  gs  you  like. 

A  tnofi  exceJlent  BitteVy  not  inferior   to 
*  ;;.;         Stqughton'^  2)f^5. 

TpiA^KE  two  Ounces  of  Gentian-root,  the 
*'  ^inds  of  nine  Oranges,  they  muft  be  of 
tfeeliu-geft  right  Seville^  and  par'd  very  thin, 
two  Drams  of  Saffron,  and  two  Drams  of  Co- 
chineal ;  infule  all  in.  one  Qi)art  of  Brandy, 
for  forty  eight  Hoiirs,  in  the  hottpft  Sun  ; 
then  philter  it  thra'  whited-brown  Paper  : 
After  this  you  ,may  take  from  twenty  Drops 
tb:a"Tea-fpoonfiil,  in  Wine,  Beer,  Tea,  or 
ahy^XiqnOr  ybu.li^e. 

The  heji  Way  ^0'  prepare  Giiin  Ancimo-   . 
-έΑλ    -  niacum. 


έΑλ    .  <     ┬╗ 


TfH  \k\{.  a  iPip^Qf  choice  Spirit  of  Wine, 
put  one  pi{pce  of  Gupi  4?^ttioniacum, 
nicely  povvdeiJjj  apd[fifted  j  fee  it  in  an  hot 

.  '/       '       *  Sun 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgtry.        i8i 

Siin  for  fix  Weeks,  ftiaking  the  Glafs  often> 
till  within  three  Days  of  pouruig  it  ofFj  then 
let  it  iftand  to  fettle,  and  decant  ic  as  clear  as 
you  can,  without,  taking  any  of  lhέΓυ  Pawder  : 
A  Tca-fpoonful  of  thjs 'SpUif^with  twenty 
Drops  of  Tindure  of  Caftpr,:  io  what  Sort;  of 
Liquor  you  like,  gives ,  immediate  Relief  iti 
an  Afthma  ;  four  Spoonfuls  of  Spring- water, 
and  two  of  Sack,  are  as  proper  as  any. 

jin  Infujion  for  the  Cure  of  Melancholy. 

TAKE  two  Drams  of  ^Anifeed,  two 
Drams  Qf  Myrrh,  one  Pram  of  Cochi- 
neal, two  Drams  of  Hiera-p^ra  ;  infule  all 
in  a  Quart  of  White- wine  ;  let  it  ftand  three 
Days,  then  philter  it,  and  give  the  Patieat 
five  Spoonful^  in  a  Morning'  falling,  and  at 
four  in  the  Afternoon,  till  they  have  taken 
two  Quarts.'      '        . 

^n  Infujion  for  ^  Dropfy, 

pUT  fix  Spoonfuls  of  the  Juice  of  Garlick, 
έΑλέΑλ  ^a  Pint  of  the  beft  Arrack,  with  one  Dram 
of  Cochineal ;  let  it  ftand  twenty  four  Hours, 
then  philter  it,  and  give  four  Spoonfuls  twice 
a  Day,  till  the  whole  be  taken.  'Tis  a  moft 
naiifeous  Medicine,  but  has  done  mighty 
Cures ;  efpecially  when,  the  Throat  or  Breath 
is  much  affeflcd  by  the  Diftemper. 

M*3  J^re^ 


1 8 1       J^ttions  to  thf  Receipts 

^J,  ^refervathe  againfi  the  Peftilenee. 

TAKE  of  Rue,  Sagc^  Mint,  Rofcmary, 
Wormwood  and  Lavender,  of  each  one 
Handful :   infufe  them  in  a  Gallon  of  the 
bcft  White- wine  Vinegar,  pi^t  all  into  a  Stone 
Bottle  clofely  cover'd  and  pafted  ;    fet  the 
Bottle^  thus  clos'd,    upon  warm  Afhes  for 
eight  bays  together.     After  y^hich,  ftrain  it 
through  a  Flannel,  and  put  the  Liquor  into 
Bottles^  and  to  every  Quart  pat  an  Ounce  of 
Camphire ;  then  cork  the  Bottles  very  clofe, 
and  it  will  keep  fome  Years.     With  this 
iEireparation,  wafh  youx  Mouth,    rub  your 
Temples,  and  ^our  Loins  every  Day  ;  Inufit 
a  little  lip  your  Noftrik  when  you  go  into 
the  Air,  and  carry  about  you  a  Sponge  dipt 
in  the  fame,  when  you  defire  to  refrefli  the 
Smell  upon  any  Occafion,  efpecially  when 
near  to  any  Place  or  Perfon  that  is  infefted. 
From  a  Phyfician  in  the  Duke  of  Berwick's 
Army,    in  the  Year   1721,    we  were  told, 
That  four  Malefaftors,  who  ufed  to  rob  the 
Jnfefted  Houfes,  &c.  had  pwn'd  at  their  Ex- 
ecution, That  they  prefer ved  themfelves  from 
the  Contagion  by  ufing  this  Medicine  only. 
And  the  Truth  having  be?n  fince  confirmed 
by  a  Gentleman  then  prefent,  I, thought  it 
defer v'd  9  Place  here  ;  efpecially  fince  the 
Ingredients  are  io  well  clxofen  for  that  Pur- 
polei  as  to  need  no  Recommendation  but 
their  pwn  Virtue,  - '  y^ 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery.        1 8  j 
To  cure  a  Quinfey. 

WHEN  Bleeding  has  fkil'd,  take  a  Sw^U 
low's  Neft,  as  whole  as  you  can  get  it 
down,  boil  it  in  Milk  'till  'tis  foft,  thca 
wrap  it  in  a  Cloth,  and  apply  it  to  the  Throat 
as  hot  as  the  Patient  can  bear  it.  This  ex>- 
cellent  Foultis  has  very  often  cured,  when 
other  Remedies  have  been  ufed  to  no  EfFeft. 

Another  prefent  Remedy t 

nPAKE  frefli  Cow Vdung,  mix  it  well  with 
-*-  Hog's  Lard  over  the  Fire,  apply  it  by 
way  of  Poultis  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne  ; 
ihift  it  as  it  cools,  a^d  continue  it  'till  the 
Pcrfon  is  eafed.  It  draws  the  Humour  out- 
ward, and  opens  the  Pailage  of  the  Gullet. 

An  adtnirahle  Snuff  for  the  Head. 

TAKE  of  Sage,  Rofemary,  Lilies  of  the 
Valley,  the  Tops  of  Sweet-marjoram, 
of  each  half  an  Ounce,  of  Nutmeg,  and  of 
Afarabacca-roots,  each  one  Dram ;  dry  them, 
and  reduce  them  to  a  very  fine  Powder. 

J%e  EJ<(D  of  th  First  Part. 


M4  INDEX 


^ 
\ 


-fi 


ill  in-l  X 


έΑλm^ 


Jo    I  2<r  D  E  X. 

To  make  thick  fquare  Cream-  For  a  Cough  And  Shortnefs  (f 
Cheefe,  as  at  Newport  6^       Breath  i^g 

Orange  Chi^s  67  Another  for  the  Jame    ibid." 

Apricot  C\iVps  08  Another  for  the  fame       159 

Cakes  of  Orange  Vloiuers  70  For  a  Chin-Cough         ibid. 

Con^txvti)f  Rofes  ibid.  For  the  Cholick  i^i 

ToCzndyanySortcfFlo'wers  For  the  fame'  ibid.' 

71  For  Convulfive  Cholick  ibid. 
A  goodSortofFortugalCikes  Another  for  the  Choldck  i6z 

72  For  the  fame  ibid. 
A  Carraway  -  Cake  ^without  For  a  violent  Cholick  Fain 

Teafi                                73  in  the  Side                    i(J^ 

To  make  Stone  Ctezm        74  Outvjard  Application  for   a 

To  make  Crzcknds          ibid.  Chin-cough                 itfp  . 

'A  very  good  Seed  Cake      75  To  make  Catchup  that  vjiU 

An  extraordinaryPlumbC^e  lafi  good  20  Tears         170 

77  To  make  Catchup  of  Mufth. 

Jceing  for  the  Cakt   .     ibid.  roams                         ibid. 

"Ratafia  Cakes                   79  D. 

A  very  rich  Cherry  Cordial  To  Drefi  a  Turbet^  or  any 

9/  DifhofFiJb                    17 

FofConvulfionS(?rVertigoii7  To  make  Dutch  Beef     έΑλ    21 

A  Cold  Caudle  in  a  Fever  To  Drels  Hogs  Feet  and  Ears 

131  a8 

For  a  Cough  and  Shortnefs  A  Drink  for   any   invjard 

of  Breath                     135  Brutfe  orWouJid    .       104 

A  good  viay  to  make  Cauale  A  Drinker  the  Evil     loo 

ibid.  A  Drink  for  the  Kin^s^Evil 

A 'wholejbme  Cprdhl      139  and  Cancer                 ibid. 

F(?r  ^Canker /┬╗ the  Mouth  or  A  mofl  excellent  Drink  for 

Qumf                           150  the  King'S'Evilin  the  Eyes 

To  cure  a  Cough  and  Short^  121 

nefs  of  Breath              152  The  RickettyDrink          129 

Another  for  a  Cough      153  A  cooling  Drink  in  a  Fever 

For  the  fame                   ibid.  or  Fleurijy                   130 

for  the  fame  vjith  a  Hoarfe-  Another  Drink  in  a  Fever 

nejs                            ibid.  ibid. 

For  a  Whooping  Cou^     154  Another  Drink               131 

For  a  Cough                  ibid.  Another  Sort                  ibid. 

For  a   Confumptive    Cough  An  incomparable  Drink  in  a 

ibid.  thirfly  Fever                13^ 

A  liery  good  FeSloral  Drink  A  Draught  ^r  a  Confwnp^^ 

for  the  fame                155  tion                            ibid. 

A 


uAi    1  N  D  E  X.     , 

Jl  Drink  ftr  the  Gtmt    iax>  A  Gaiigle  fw  a  Sore  Tbraat 

An  έΓυxcellenf  fmr^Mg  Ale  fir  150 

-fDropfy                    144  A  Gzr^e  m  the  PalJ)     ibid. 

t^r  a  DropIV                  145  Another  Gargle  in  the  Valfj 

F#r  #Dropiy                 146  151 

A  Drink  ┬τ  /Ar  Gw^  et  To  keep  Goofeberries  all  the 

Menmatifm                 149  Tear                            17^ 

Jt  good  Drmk  m  41  Cenfump^  Befi  'way  to  frepare  Gum 

^┬τ┬╗  15*       Ammoniacum  iSa 

ncaraDabidb  \6%  έΑη 

Another  ibid.  ,-  ty  -,         ^ 

Another  for  a  Vain  in  the  ^  l^fhaCafs^Head     27 

Bar  ibid.  ^<^  ^*J  Head-ach  140 

Another  for  the  fame    ibid.   ^Ttl  1^^^^$?^^*      ,     i^* 
n  keep  Damafcens  for  Tarts  ^^  έΕλ'P  ^^  Hot  iwi  Ci;^* 

176       tiaM  of  Body  16% 

I^J!a,fir  aDropCy      iH  ^Zlt  i^. 

[ilxp  admhrahle  Ele┬μfcuary  for  J 

4  OijgA  159   Harfs'horn  or  Calfs-fiot 

For  a  Blow  or^  Hurt  in  the       jdly,  the  befi  ivay      .  5$ 

Eye                              1^4  To  make  Almondnet  or  nuhito 

P  Jelly                             C7 

ToFxiaiBy  Chickens  Of  Snoeet'  Jcuy  rf  Currants               67 

*rtf^Jp                 '          22  CodUn  or  Pippin  ]e\\y        82 

Another  for  the  fame    ibid.  F(;r  ^9  Inflammation  ┬╗  /Af 

T^  Force  ^  Leg  of  Lamb  24  r^^i^^                         i  ^4 

T^YrjOyfiersforQarnifbfor  JEir /i&^  Jaundice             iXJ 

FifhorHalh                   52  A pleafant  and fafe  Medicino 

To  make  goodFotc  d-Meatfor  fir  the  Te/Aw  Jaundice  148 

.      anyVfe  .4,1 

A  pretty  Sort  of  Flummery  L 

(Jj  To  make  Lobfter-Loaves  26 

f     To  make  Harfs-horn  Flum-  l^moh-Cream^  befi  noay    58 

mery                        ibid.  Lemon-Ctfi^fx                  66 

To  make  good  Fritters        80  For  a  Loofencfi              16^ 

A  Spanilb  Fotatoe  of  Farfnip  The  befi  way  ofB^trningClareP 

Fritter                       173  for  aLoo&Xid^           ┬▒6^ 

G  For  a  Loolenefi            ^^4l^ 

Tiluk  Ginger-bread          72  Another  for  ^Loo&nefi  ibidv 

For  the  Gout                  139  Another  for  the  fame     %6y 

f  Cinnamon^. 


jh    I  N  D  E  X. 

* 

finnamm  Water  for  a  Loofe-  P 

tids  and  Fever  ibid.  VdXdes  for  a  Dijb  of  Rfi    i% 

for  a  Loofends  and  Gripes  To  Pickle  Tork  19 

ibid.  The  beft  vjay  to  Pot  Beef  ay 

^notber  for  a  Loofcncfs  and  To  make  a  Fbtajtoe  Pie      30 

Gripes  168    A  Sweet  PiCf  'wtneh  may  ie 

For  the  fame  ibid.       made  of  joung  Lami  or 

pr,^iiL&AA^s  Fiemedy  for       Chickens  y^ 

Lunacy,  ^c.  177  To  make  a  Hog-meat  Vit     35 

To  make  JLobfier  Pies        37 

M  To  Voti^eats-Tonguesj  a  bet-- 

To  make  Orange  Marmalade       ter  nuaj  than  drying  them 

66  39' 

White  Mead  89   To  Pot  Salmon  as  at  New- 

Strong  Mead  92       caftle  .  ao 

Ivfufton  to  cure  Melancholy  Xo  Pickle  Mackarel^  cMd 

181       Caveach  ibid. 

O  ToVoi'Lamprey  42 

An  Oil  for  any  Bruifi  or  ^WeftphaliaH^wPife  ibii 

Wound  106  To  Pickfe  Codlins  like  Mangts 

AnOmvassxAfor  Swellings  in  ibid. 

the  Kin^s  Evil  109   To  Vickie  WaOnuts  43 

.^^'Ointpient  for  the  Evil  or  To  Pickle  Mujbrooms        44. 

'Rickets  no   ToYic\i\tNeatS'T<mgues    4J 

3Tbe  5┬τi4f/Ai^^  Ointment   123   r<?  Pickle  Pi^ea┬τx  ibid. 

An  Ointment  good  for  any  To  Pickle  Smelts  46 

Ach  or  Swelling  in  Man  or   To  Pickle  Oifiers  ibkl. 

Beaft  124  .^xr  Apple  Pudding  to  Bake 

An  Ointment^r  a.  Burn  132  47 

An  Ointment  which  is  a  cer^  The  befi  Orange  Pudding  that 

tain  Cure  for  any  Scabs,       ever  was  tafied         ibid. 

TimpleSi  or  old  inveterate  A  Bice  Pudding  48 

Itch  i2(S  W^i/fKi^x  Pudding     ibid 

An  incomparable  Ointment  AKeafsFootT?\x3Avoig     ┬▒9 

for  a  Strain,  Weaknejs,  or  IhinCreamPtLncskssyCdlPaa 

ShrinkingintheNerves  12J       ^ire  of  Paper  54 

AnOintmcntfor  a  Child  that  An  AlmondVuddxQg      ibid. 

has  the  Rickets  128   Or^iff^e  Pudding  52 

AnO'mtment  for  the  Back  of  Cheefe^urd  Vuddinz         5$ 

a  *CDeak,  Ricketty  Child  129  To  make  Ho^s  Puddings     54 

/in  excelfent  Ointment  for  a  Liver   Puddings  very  good 

'   Tainin  the  Side  164  55 

A  Sagoe 


A┬╗    INDEX. 

if  ^ifgOf-Pudding  55-^*  admhahle  Poflet-drink  m 

An  Ofij^^-PoQet              60  a  Pleurifjy  or  Sbortnefs  ef 

Pamada  for  a  jick  or  tveak  Sto^  Breath                        i  j^, 

^ach                               6^  A  very  good  Pui^c  in  a  Fever 

To   Preferve     Apricots    in  x-ifi 

JeUy                              68  Pills  for  Sbortnefs  of  Breath 

PrawUns  9r  Frfd  Almonds  15^ 

69  Another  for  the  fame       156? 

K  Preferve    Orange-fiov^ers  Powder  for  Confimfthn  i^y 

ibid.  For  the  Plcurify                159 

A  Powder  for  Dlgefiion     7 1  Another                            1 60 

AnexceUent  Plumb-Pudding  A  Poffet-drink  for  a  Cough 

74  162 

Egg  Minc^d-Vyes               j6  For  aVkurify  and Fetvi^   165 

Lemon  or  Chocolate-PuSs  78  Paris  Pies                         171 

Almond  Puffs                ibid.  Pan  Puddings /^/r/         175 

Pancakes,  very  good         80  To  Pickle  Lemons            174 

jfi>    Preferve   Golden-Tipfins  To  Fickle  Artichoak  Bottoms 

the  hfi    v^ay                 82  ibid. 

To  make  -Mr/^-Punch         91  Infallible  Powder  for  Shorts 

The  Red  Powder /or  RfT'iprx,  ┬╗^/f  0/  Br  eat  h,  efpecially  in 

Small-poxy  or  Surfeits  115  you?tg  Ladies                177 

Qafcoign  Powder,  tf^^^yJr/,  -^  Prefer vative  againfi  the 

for  the  fame  Ufes          1 14  PeftUence                     182 

A  very  good  Powder  for  a  ^ 

J>iz%i7tefs  in  the  Heady  and  ^ 

'  /(?  prevent  AfopleBick  Fits  ^^  ^^  ^  0^^"^  i8j 

J  J      Another  prefent  Remedy  ibid.' 

'^  Powder  ^(7*  (lop  a  Hickup 

in  Many  Womany  or  Child  ^ 

ibid.  To  Roaft  a  Calfs-Head     24 

-^┬╗  excellent  Vo^xderfor  Con-  To  Roafl  ^  Brc'^ary?  of  Fork  .27 

vnlfionFits                  ibid.  To  make  Katzfi^L            "     92 

-if  Powder /or  Digeflion  116  A  prefenf  Remedy  /or  Cfi;y- 

Avery  good  Plaifter  for  a  vulftonFtts                   jkJ 

Stomach  J  ore  vjith  Coughing  Another  for  the  fame      jij 

123  . 

Plaifters/?r  ^yF^.^^r        124  S 

A  very  good  Poukis  for  afore  A  Green  Feas  Soup,  ^without 

Breaft                           126  Meat                                 9 

A  Poflet-d  rink  to  he  taken  he*  A  very  good  Soup              i  o 

firetheF/tof  an  Ague  I'll  A  zery  good  Peas  Soup       11 

Crai^'^ 


/ 


>fo    I  N  D  E  X. 

Crtfm-Jifijy   or  Fra'wn  Soup  For  the  fame  ┬τ      ibidl┬╗ 

ibid.  To    Sweeten    the  Blood  in, 
Veas  Soupy^V  "Lent  or  any       Scurvy -y  Jaundice^  or  any 
FafiingX>ay  12        Fains  in  the  Limbs'     14.7 

A  MeatSo\}^  13    For  the  StQhe  14S 

To  Stew  Figeons  16^  Amther  for  the  Stone  ibid. 

To  Stew  ┬╗  H^re  25   F(?r  Sweating  in  the  Night, 

To  make  Stove  Peal  29        ?┬╗  a  Confumption  lyy 

7b  Stew  C^rp  30   For  Shonncfs  of  Breath  ibiA 

G(>w/ Sauce  /^r  boi^dRahbifs  For  a  Stitch  /w  /^e  Side     iS% 

%i    A  Steake  Florendine        171 

A  pretty  SzViCe for  TVoodcocksy   A  Confumptive  Syrup      17? 

^  or  any  TPiid  Fowl  32   ^┬╗  admiraMe  Svmu  for  tht 

/  7b  Stew  Herrings  33        H^p^^  1J5 

Tb  7┬╗/sfJ^e  Saufages  34  vp 

Scotch-Co/ZofXa  4(  gpod  way 

35    -^  i;^f/  good*l2in{y  54 

7b  Stew  0//?┬μ^ry  3^ .  -^  Spinage  Tart  v^ry  ^(>ij^   8i 

Ti>  Stew  <i  K┬τwff  of  Beef  ^  41  AnAlmondTzrt  very  good  ib, 
7b  Stew  G(?A/ew  P/p/>i┬╗y  56  Tt^  give  certain  Eafe  in  the 
A  Whipt  ffyUabub  dxtraorai-       Tooth-ach  125 

Tutry  54   AconftanpdailyWaJhforthe:, 

To  make  Sagoe  -(^5       Teeth  151 

7b  make  Salep  ibid.    7b  clean  very  foul  fpottei 

To  improve  Sydcr<)  and  make       Teeth  ,    ibid. 

it  ferfeSlly  fne  ^\    A  Mucilage  for  a  fore  Thtoat 

Spirit  of  Chry  ^  j^i 

Spirit  ^Ctfrr^'u;^^/        ibid.  W 

A  Salve  for  the  Kin^s-Evil 

1 06   7b  make  Weftphalia  Hams  3  8 
Tor  a  Strain  no  Wafers    .r  7a 

-^i  Syrup  /tf  r  Convulfion  Fits  The  Lpndon  Wigs  7S 

117   7)&^  r/g^/ Dutch-Wafer    78 
^  ^W  Sear-cloth  122   7b  make  Eaifin  Elder  Wine 

An  incomparable  S2lve  for  the  8j 

Eyes  -ibi(┬μ*  Another  very  wholefome  ibii 

P┬τr//b^Stone^┬╗^GfrifW/i40   ^ince-Wmc  84 

F(t>r  Stoppage  of  Water  m^the   Orange-WinQ  έΑλ  85 

Stone  141    JBirt^-Wine,    <┬τ^      made  im 

For  the  Stone  Ibid.       Suffex  ibid- 

Another  for  the  Stone  .142   Black  Qherry-Wine  *5 

For  the  Scurvy  ibid.   -J^^^-Wine  87 

F(?r  the  fame  143    C^^rr^AVine,  tfx/>  Kent  ib, 

^Rasberrj 


Watii 
ibid. 


,.  έΑλ*έΨι 


:|^s-#=|-fes^ 


έΨι** 


*'^    ll 


-*    ''    "  έΨι  irr_ 


COLLECTION 


OF 


RECEIPTS 


I  N 


Cookery, 

JPhyfick  a^d  Surgery. 


PART    IL 


CONTAIMINO     LIKEWISE 

A  great  Number  of  Exodjent  Receipts,  for  Preferva^ 
and  Cottferving  of  Sweet-Meats,  &c. 


By  Several  Hands, 


The   FOURTH    EDITION. 


έΨι^έΨι^r 


LONDON: 

Printed  fer  W.  Fa&keb.,  at  the  Kit^*t'-Head 
ja  St  Paufs  Cburcb-Tard. 

MDCCXXXIV. 


mm 


dkmi 


#       έΑλέΑλ 


>\.      K^    *% 


έΑλ      έΑλ'm-  t   έΨι 


wi 


f       ' 


\    ' 


* 


--T   . 


1 


.έΑλi┬╗L* -^.r^i*┬╗.<T    έΑΦ^mimttt. 


s 

I 

1 P4      A  ColMum  (f  Rgceipts 

┬╗ 

plump'dy  take  oat  the  faireft  to  put  in  whole, 
and  pulp  the  reft  thro'  a  Cullender^  and  vraih 
the  Stone  and  Skins  dean  with  fbme  of  the 
Broth  ;  take  alfb  the  Crumb  of  a  fenny 
white  Loaf  grated,  to  erery  Gallon  ;  and  to 
four  Gallons,  you  may  put  about  two  Nut- 
megs, the  Weight  of  that  in  Clores  and  Mace, 
and  the  Weight  of  all  in  Cinnamon  ;  let  all 
the  Spice  be  finely  beat  and  gra(;^ ;  add  Salt 
and  Sugar  to  your  Tafte  j  when  the  Fruit 
is  plump,  'tis  enough  ;  but  juft  before  you 
take  it  from  the  Fire,  iqueeze  in  the  Juice 
of  four  or  five  Lemons,  and  throw  in  the  Peel 
of  two  ;  four  Gallons  will  require  a  Quart 
of  Claret,  and  a  Pint  of  Sack,  which  mufi  be 
pat  in  with  the  Fruit. 

To  make  Calves-Foot  Broth. 

BOIL  your  Feet  in  as  much  Water  as  will 
make  a  good  Jelly ;  when  'tis  enough, 
firain  it,  and  fet  the  Liquor  on  the  Fire  again, 
with  two  or  three  Blades  of  Mace  ;  if  'tis  two 
Quarts,  about  half  a  Pint  of  Sack,  half  a 
Pound  of  Currants,  clean  walh^d,  and  pick'd  j 
when  they  are  plump,  beat  up  the  Yolks  of 
two  Eggs,  and  mix  them  with  a  little  of  the 
cool  Liquor  ;  lb  thicken  it  with  great  Care, 
over  a  gentle  Fire,  put  Salt  and  Sugar  to 
your  Tafte,  and  ftir  in  a  Bit  of  Butter  j  a 
little  before  you  take  it  off  the  Fire,  put  in 

the 


^ 


in  Cookery,  (^cl         195" 

the  Juice  and  Peel  of  a  frefh  Lemon  :  This, 
tho*  old-fafliion'd,  is  a  pretty  Supper-Difti* 

Calves-Fcet,  another  Way. 

BOIL  two  Calves-Feet,  a  Bit  of  Veal,  a 
Bit  of  Beef,  ^nd  the  Bottom  of.  a  white 
Loaf ;  add  no  Sealbning,  but  two  or  three 
]E^adcs  of  Mace,  a  fliced  Nutmeg,  and  fome 
Salt ;  have  Ibme  boil'd  Rice  to  ftir  in  after 
you  have  ftrain'd  it  from  the  Bones  and 
Skins ;  put  a  boil'd  Chicken  in  the  middle, 
and  Sippits  in  the  Dilh.  This  is  very  pou- 
rifhing,  and  lefs  ofFenfive  to  weak  Stomachs, 
than  any  Soup  that  is  made. 

To  2)refs  a  Cod's  Head. 

V\T  HEN  you  have  wafli'd  and  picked  it 
^  extremely  clean,  tie  it  up  tight  with  a 
broad  Filleting,  that  it  may  keep  together, 
and  take  out  as  whole  as  ^tis  poffiblc  ;  let 
the  Liquor  you  boil  it  in,  be  one  Pint  of  Vine- 
gar, and  the  reft  Water,  enough  to  cover  it  j 
put  into  thjs  three  Onions  quartered,  fome 
whole  Pej^er,  Mace,  and  Sweet-herbs  ;  and 
when  it  boils,  throw  in  a  Handful  of  Salt  ; 
'tis  apt  to  difcolour  it,  jf  put  in  at  firft  ; 
when  'tis  clean  fcumm'd,  and  taftes  well  of 
the  Spice,  put  in  the  Head,  let  it  fimmer 
at  leaft  half  an  Hour ;  then  take  it  out,  and 
place  it  on  youi;  Dilh, over  a  hot  Chafing-difti 

N  a  ^  of 


**qt 


196      A  ColkSiion  of  Receipts  , 

of  Coals  ;  that  it  may  be  furc  to  drain  very 
dry,  prick  the  Eyes,  and ,  other  Parts  of  the 
Head,  to  let  out  the  Liquor,  and  foak  up  all 
with  a  Sponge  ;  the  Sauce  muft  be  made  ^ 
with  a  Pint  of  White-wine,  almoft  as  much 
Water,  fix  or  eight  Anchovies,  a  large  Onion, 
a  Nutmeg,  four  or  five  Blades  of  Mace,  fome 
whole  Pepper,  and  a  Bit  of  Lemon  Peel  and 
Horfe-radifli,  if  you  like  it  ;  when  the  An- 
chovies are  diffblv'd,  ftrain  it,  and  add  the 
Liver. of  the  Cod  bruis'd,  the  Body  of  a 
Lobfter,  and  at  leaft  a  Pound  of  extraordi- 
nary Butter  ;  work  a  little  Flour  with  a  Bit 
of  the  Butter,  that  it  may  mix,  and  be  all 
of  a  .Colour  ;  let  the  laft  thing  be  the  Juice 
of  a  Lemon  or  Vinegar,  the  reft  of  the  Lob- 
fter cut  in  Dice,  fome  Shrimps  and  Oifters 
fry'd  and  fcaldcd,  and  fry'd  flattifli  round  the 
Head. 

To  iSroil  Chickens. 

LE  T  your  Chickens  be  very  fat,  flit  them 
down  the  Back,  and  fcalbn  them  with 
Salt  and  Pepper,  lay  them  on  a  very  clear 
Fire,  and  at  a  great  Diftance,*and  let  the 
Infide  lie  next  the  Fire,  that  the  fleftiy  Side 
be  not  Icorch'd  or  difcolour'd  ;  when  they 
are  half  done,  you  may  turn  them  often, 
and  bafte  them  mightily  ;  ftrew  on  fome 
Rafpings  of  a  Frer.ch  Roll ;  that  it  ma|f^e 
crifp,  it  muft  be  finely  grated  j  fhred  Parlicy, 

and 


in  Cookery,  (^c.  15^7 

and  melted  Butter,  is  a  good  and  a  ready 
Sauce  :  But  I  am  ordered  to  fet  down  what 
follows  as  extraordinary ;  Take  a  large  Hand- 
ful of  Sorrel,  dip  it  in  fcalding  Water,  then 
drain  it,  and  have  ready  half  a  Pint  of  ftrong 
Broth  or  Gravy,  a  Shallot  Ibred  fifnall,  a  little 
Thyme,  a  Utile  Parfley,  a  Bit  of  burnt  Butter 
to  thicJcen  it,  lay  the  Sorrel  in  Heaps,  and 
pour  the  Sauce  over  it :  Garnilh  with  fliced 
Lemon. 

To  Stens)  Wild-Fowl. 

X-T  A  L  F  roaft  them,  and  cut  them  in 
έΑλ*  ^  Pieces,  fet  them  over  a  Chafing-difti  of 
Coals,  with  half  a  Pint  of  Claret,  as  much 
good  Gravy,  which  muft  be  firft  boil'd  and 
feafbn'd  with  Shallot  and  Spice  j  let  it  ftew  in 
this  Liquor,  'till  'tis  high  coloured  and  well 
mix'd,  and  they  eat  better  than  off  the  Spit. 


A  good  Gravy,  to  keep  ready  jot  any 

Ufi- 

piURN  an  Ounce  of  Butter  \\\  your  Fry-  \ 

ing-pan,  but  always  take  care  to  do  it 
at  fuch  a  Diftance  from  the  Fire,  that  as  *  ' 
you  ftrew  in  the  Flour  to  the  Butter,  it 
may  be  brown,  but  not  black  ;  put  to  it  two 
Pounds  of  coarfc  lean  Beef,  a  Quart  of  Wa- 
;  έΑλ  ,  and  half  a  Pint  of  \\'ine,  Red  or  White, 

N  3  ^  as 


19S     A  Cotte┬μii(m  of  Receipts 

as  you  like  the  Colour ;  put  three  AnchoTies^ 
two  Shallots,  fbme  whole  Pepper,  Qovcs 
aod  Mace,  three  or  four  Muihrooms,  or  as 
many  pickled  Wallnuts,  let  it  ftew  gently 
near  an  Hour,  then  ftrain  it ;  'twill  keep 
fome  Time,  and  is  proper  for  any  favoury 
PiflL 

3a  Roafi  Pike  or  Mackarcl. 

nPAKE  one  large  Pike,  or  four  large 
-*-  Mackarel,  draw  and  wafti  them  clean, 
make  the  Seaibning  of  four  Anchovies,  a  Pint 
of  Oyfters,  or  Shrimps,  Nutmegs,  Cloves  and 
Mace,  a  little  Parfley,  an  Onion,  or  Shallot, 
if  you  like  it  j  flired  and  grate  all  thefc  very 
fraall,  and  mix  it  up  with  full  half  a  Pound 
of  good  Butter  j  fill  the  Bellies  of  the  Fifh 
with  this  Seafbning,  and  ftrew  fbme  on  the 
Outfidc  of  them ;  with  flat  large  Skewers  and 
a  broad  Tape,  tie  them  on  to  the  Spit,  baftc 
it  as  it  roafts  with  Claret  or  Butter  (I  prefer 
the  laft)  ;  let  your  Sauce  be  Wine,  Oifter- 
Liquor,  Anchovy,  Spice,  Butter,  and  Vinegar, 
which  b  always  to  be  the  laft  Ingredient  j 
when  you  ftir  in  your  Butter,  take  6are  you 
ftir  in  no  more  Flour  than  will  make  it  mix 
well,  bccaufe  the  Seafoning  thickens  it. 


To 


in  Cookery,  &c.  i^p 

To  Roafi  a  Haunch  of  Venifon. 

TM[  A  K  E  up  a  lubftantial  Fire  before  you 
^^  lay  it  down,  then  bafte  and  flour  it, 
and  with  very  fine  Skewers  faften  a  Piece  of 
Veal-Gawl  over  the  fat  Part ;  if  that  cannot 
be  had,  the  White  of  an  Egg,  or  Paper  well 
butter'd  will  lerve.  A  Haunch  of  i  a  l^ounds 
weight  will  take '  up  three  full  Hours  to  be 
well  foak'd  :  Your  Sauce  muft  be  Gravy, 
with  a  great  deal  of  Claret  in  it ;  the  faihion- 
able  fweet  Sauce,  is  Jelly  of  Currants  made 
hot.  What  was  formerly  ufed,  was  a  Pap- 
Sauce  made  of  white  Bread  boil'd  in  Claret, 
with  a  large  Stick  of  Cinnamon,  and  when 
boiPd  'till  fmooth,  take  out  the  Cinnamon, 
and  add  Sugar.  It  is  difficult  to  give  general 
Rules  about  Roafting  and  Boiling,  becauie 
Cooks  are  apt  to  negle┬μ)^  a  Fire,  and  not  mind 
the  Diftance,  that  it  may  neither  fcorch  nor 
pawl  J  but  ias  to  Time,  I  will  venture  to  lay, 
that,  allowing  a  quarter  of  an  Hour  to  every 
Pound  of  Meat,  at  a  fteady  Fire,  your  Ex- 
peftations  ftiall  hardly  ever  fail,  from  a  Fowl 
to  a  Sirloin  of  the  largeft  Ox.  And  the  fame 
Method  may  be  followed  in  Boiling. 


V, 


N  4 


X 


8[Op      A  (j>}ie0ipn  cf  ReceipU 

ftq  Roaji  Eels. 

SKIN   and   wafli  the  fineft  large  Eels 
ypu  can  get,  cut  them  in  three,  four,  or 
five  Pieces,  according  as  they  arc  for  Size ; 
make  a  Scafoning  of  grated  Nutmeg,  beaten 
I?^ppcf  and  Salt,  a  little  Thyme  and  Sage, 
a  little  Lemon^peel,   the  Crumb  of  white 
Bi?cad  J    let  all  thefe  be  finely  grated  and 
jhred,  and  ftrew'd  on  the  Eels,  ftiek  them 
crofs  each  other  on  Skewers,    and  tie  the 
Skewers  to  your  Spit,  and  let  them  roaft  'til} 
they  begin  to  crack,  and  arp  white  at  the 
Bone  ; .  be  fure  to  bafte  them  wpll,  as  they 
roaft  ;   melted  Butter  and  Tuice  of  Lemon  i$ 
the  bcft  Sauce,  becaule  the  Sealpning  gives 
them   as  good  a  Reliih  as  they  can  have  : 
thev  fry  or  broil,  as  well  as  fbaft,  fo  feafon'd. 

A  S'Weet  Saufe  for  BoiT^  Mutton, 

roery  good. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  the  Broth 
your  Mutton  was  boird  in,  put  to  it  four 
Spoonfuls  of  the  Pickle  of  Gapers  or  Sam- 
phire, fet  it  on  the  Fire  to  boil  j  then  Ihred 
a  Carrot,  >vhich  has  been  firft  boil'd  tender, 
and  four  Spoonfuls  of  Capers  or  Samphire 
ifhred  :  put  this  into  the  Liquor  ;  when  it 
boils,  ftir  in  four  Oupces  of  Butter,  and  fliake 


in  Cookery^  c^^.         201 

a  very  little  Flour,  fwccteh  it,  and  pour  it 
over  the  Meat  :    'Tis  a  grateful,  tho'  old- " 
fafhion'd  Sauce. 

Tq  make  a  Tajly  of  Beef  or  Mutton,  as 

good  as  Venifon. 

BO  N  E  a  fraall  Rump,  or  a  Piece  of  a 
Sirloin  of  Beef ;  or,  if  you  like  Mutton 
better,  let  it  be  a  Loin  or  a  Shoulder  of  Mut- 
ton,, but  Beef  is  beft  ;  when .  your  Meat  is 
boned,  beat  it  very  well  with  your  Rolling- 
Pin,  then  rub  ten  Pounds  of  this  Meat  with 
four  Ounces  of  Sugar,  and  let  it  lie  twenty- 
four  Hours,  then  wipe  it  very  clean,  or  walh 
it  off  N^ith  a  Glafs  of  Claret,  and  feafon  it 
bigh  with  Pepper,  Nutmeg,  and  Salt  5  lay  it 
in   your  Cruft,    and   cover   fo  much  Meat 
with  full  two  Pounds  of  Butter;  put  on  the 
Cruft,  and  bake  if  as  much  as  Venifon ;  fet 
the  Bones  into  the  Oven,  with  no  more  Wa- 
ter  than  will   cover  them,    that  you  may 
have  a  little   good  Gravy,  to  put  into  the 
Pafty,  if  it  wants  it  when  drawn.     Let  no 
one  diflike  the  laying  it  in  Sugar,  'till  they 
have  try'd  it,  for  how  prcpofterous  an  In- 
gredient foevcr  it  may  feem  in  a  favoury  Pie, 
I  muft  beg  Leave  to  afTure  the  Reader,  that 
nothing    gives   fo  certain  a  Shortnefs  and 
Tcndernels  to  the  Meat,  as  Sugar  j  and,  if 
carefully  waftied  or'  wiped  off,    it  leaves  a 
Delicacy  that  is  equal  to  Venifon ;  and  iincc 

I  have 


101     ACJMim  ^Rmpts 

I  fasfc  Occsfioo  to  mrnfion  Sogv,  'ds  1117 
Of^uucti,  that  in  our  comniao  EagE/b  Bacon, 
Vii  as  cffcdDal  in  the  Core  erf"  it  as  Sak  ;  and 
whereas  abondance  <^  Sale  makes  it  hard  and 
dry,  the  Ad^don  of  Sogar  giTcs  a  Tcn- 
dcrneis  almoft  equal  Co  right  ffefipboBa^  and 
preferres  it  gpod  all  the  Year,  with  half  the 
Qpantity  of  Salt  we  formerly  uied. 

A  Shrimp  Pic. 

TAKE  a  Quart  of  Shrimps,  clean  |nck'd 
from  the  Shells  ;  if  they  are  very  fait 
in  the  boiling,  ieafbn  them  only  with  a  little 
Cloves  and  Mace,  but  if  they  want  Salt, 
ihred  two  or  three  Anchovies  very  fine,  and 
mix  them  with  the  Spice,  and  feafon  the 
Shrimps ;  you  may  make  a  good  Cruft,  bc- 
caufe  they  don't  want  much  baking  ;  put  a 
pretty  deal  of  Butter  over  and  under  them, 
one  Glafs  of  White- wine,  and  fct  it  in  the 
Oven  :  Where  Shrimps  arc  to  be  had,  this  is 
not  an  cxpenfivc,  but  a  very  delicious  Difh. 

A  Hare  Pie. 

BONE  the  Hare,  and  ftircd  the  Meat 
fmall|  take  almoft  the  Weight  in  frefh 
Beef-^fuet,  Ihred  that  fmall  then  too,  beat  both 
in  a  Marble  Mortar/till  'tis  lb- finely  mix'd  you 
cannot  difcover  the  Meat  from  the  Suet ;  if 

the 


in  Cookery,  ^e.  203 

the  Hare  was  large/twill  take  up  two  Ounces 
of  Salt,  two  finall  Nutmegs,  their  Weight  in 
Cloves  and  Mace,  and  add  alfb  a  litte  fine 
Pepper  j  mix  the  Spice  well  with  theMeat,and 
put  it  into  a  good  Cruft  and  bake  it ;  'tis 
good  hot  or  cold. 

ji  foery  pretty  Cruft  for  Tarts. 

TAKE  three  Eggs  and  beat  them  well 
together,  put  to  them  three  Spoonfuls 
of  cold  Water,  then  break  in  a  Pound  of 
Butter ;  while  you  are  working  it  all  together,' 
let  ibme  Flour  be  ftiak'd  in,  and  work  it 
together,  ftill  ftrewing  in  more  Flour,  'till 
^tis  a  pretty  ftiff  Pafte,  then  roul  it  out  for 
Tarts  J  it  keeps  crifper  and  longer  than  Puff- 
Cruft  for  moft  Ufes. 

A  fereen-Goofe  Pie. 

I'^  A  K  E  two  fat  Green-Geefe,  bone  them, 
έΑλ  and  fcafbn  them  pretty  high,  with  Nut- 
megs, Cloves,  Mace,  Pepper  and  Salt,  and, 
if  you  like  it,  two  whole  Onions  ;  lay  them 
upon  each  other,  and  ffll  the  Sides,  arid  cover 
thetn  with  Butter  :  Let  them  be  well  bak'd, 
und  they  eat  delicately  hot  or  cold. 


iTo 


Ze4     A  CoJkSiion  of  Receipts 
To  Tot  CheOiire-Chccfe. 

TAKE  three  Pounds  of  Cheftiire-Chccfc, 
and  put  it  into,  a  Mortar,  with  half  a 
Ifound  of  the  bcft  fre{h  Butter  you  can  get  5 
pound  them  together,  and  in  the  beating, 
add  a  Glafs  or  two  of  rich  Canary,  and  half 
an  Ounce  of  Mace,  fo  finely  beat  and  fifted 
that  it  may  not  be  difcern'd  \  when  all  is  ex- 
tremely well  mix'd,  prefs  it  hard  down  intp 
9  Gallipot,  cover  it  with  melted  Butter,  and 
keep  it  cool  ;  a  Slice  of  this  exceeds  all  the 
Cream  Checfes  that  can  poflibly  be  made,  and 
is  generally  more  acceptable. 

^0  make  a  Cold  Hajb^   or  Sallad- 

Magundy. 

np AKE  a  cold  Turkey,  two  cold  Chickens, 
-*-  or,  if  you  have  neither,  a  Piece  of  fine 
white  Veal  will  do  j  cut  the  Breafts  of  thefe 
Fowls  into -fair  Slices,  and  mince  all  the  reft; 
to  the  Quantity  of  two  Chickens,  you  muft 
take  eight  or  ten  large  Anchovies,  wa(h  and 
bone  them,  eight  large  pickled  Oifter^,  ten 
or  twelve  fine  green  pickled  Cucumbers, 
flired  the  Oifters,  the  Anchovies,  the  Cu- 
cumbers, and  one  whole  Lemon,  fmall ;  mix 
them  with  the  Ihred  Meat,  lay  it  in  the 
middle  of  the  Pilh,   lay  the  Slices  of  the 

white 


i 


in  Cookery,  (^ci  205 

white  Part  round  the  Difti,  with  halvM  An- 
chovies, >^ole  pitkled  Oifters,  quartcr'^d 
Cucumbers,  flic'd  Lemon,  whole  pickled 
Muflirooms,  Capers,  or  any  Pickle  you  like  ; 
cut  alio  fome  fine  Lettice,  and  lay  round 
among  the  Garnifli  ;  but  put  not  Oil  and 
Vinegar  to  the  minc'd  Meat,  till  it  comes  to 
Table. 

To  Soufe  a  Turkey,  in  Imitation  of 

Sturgeon. 

TA  K  E  a  fine  large  Turkey,  drefi  it 
very  clean,  dry^  and  bone  it,  then  tie  it 
up,  as  you  do  Sturgeon  j  put  into  the  Pot  you 
boil  it  in,  one  Quart  of  White- wine,  one 
Quart  of  Water,  and  one  Quart  of  good  Vi* 
negar,  and  a  very  large  Handful  of  Salt ; 
let  it  boil,  and  icum  it  well,  and  then  put  in 
the  Turkey  ;  when  'tis  enough,  take  it  out, 
and  tie  it  tighter ;  let  the  Liquor  boil  a  little 
longer ;  and  if  it  wants  more  Vinegar  or  Salt, 
add  it  when  'tis  cold  j  pour  it  upon  the  Tur- 
key, 'twill  keep  Ibme  Months  ;  you  eat  it 
with  Oil  and  Vinegar,  or  Sugar  and  Vinegar  ; 
'tis  more  delicate  thin  Sturgeon,  and  makes  a 
pretty  Variety,  if  that  is  not  to  be  had  ;  co- 
ver it  with  Fennel,  when  it  is  brought  to 
the  Table. 

Awry 


2o6     A  ColUSiion  of  Receipts 

A  wry  pretty  Way  to  eat  eoJd  hoil'd 

Beef. 

V 

SLICE  it  as  thin  as  'tis  poffiblc,  flice 
alfo  an  Onion,  or  a  Shallot,  and  fqueezc 
on  it  the  Juice  of  a  Lemon  or  twoj  then  beat 
it  between  two  Plates,  as  you  do  Cucum- 
bers ;  when  'tis  very  well  beaten,  and  taftcs 
iharp  of  the  Lemon,  put  it  into  a  deep  Cf:fina 
Difii,  pick  out  the  Onion,  and  pour  on  Oil, 
ihake  in  alio  ibme  flired  Parfly,  and  garnifh 
with  fliced  Lemon  ;  'tis  very  favoury  and 
delicious. 

To  make  exveJlent  Meat  of  a  Hog's 

Head. 

έΑλ 

'T^  A  K  E  the  Head  and  fplit  it,  take  out 
^  the  Brains,  cut  off  the  Ears,  apd  lay 
it  in  Water  one  Day,  then  boil  it  'till  all  the 
Bones  come  OHt,  then  take  off  the  Skin  as 
whole  as  you  can,  for  that  is  to  be  laid  over 
and  under  it :  chop  it  fmall,  as  faft  as  you 
can,  while  it  is  hot ;  fealbn  it  with  Pepper, 
Salt,  Mace,  Nutmeg,  or  Jamaica  Pepper, 
if  you  like  it,  inftead  of  Mace ;  prefs  it  down 
into  a  Pudding  or  V^niibn-pan,  lay  the  Skin 
over  and  under  it,  cover  and  prcls  it  down 
very  clofe,  and  when  /^tis  quite  cold  'twill 
tuyi  out,  and  cut  as  clofe  as  a  Cheefe  ; 
you  may  add  Salt  and  Vinegar  to  fome  of 
w  the 


--έΑλ┬╗ 


in  Cookery,  ^cl        loy 

the  Liquor  'twas  boil'd  in,  and  keep  it  in 
that  Pickle  :  *Tis  eat  with  Vinegar  or  Mu- 
ftard,  and  is  .better  than  Brawn,  if  the  Head 
ybu  make  it  of  be  large  and  fat, 

A  wry  good  Way  to  hep  Tongues  In 
'Pickle  for  Boilings  to  eat  Hot  or 
Cold.  i 

< 

1^  LEAN  them  well,  and  rub  them 
^^  very  dry,  then  lay  them  flat  in  a  Tray, 
and  fait  them  well  with  common  Salt  j  let 
them  lie  two  Days,  then  beat  an  Ounce  of 
Salt-pctre  for  every  Tongue,  and  ftrew  it  on 
the  Top  of  the  Tongue ;  let  it  Xvt  two  or 
three  Days,  and  then  fait  it  again  with  com- 
mon Salt,  after  this  turn  them  often,  and  put 
frelh  Salt  when  wanted  j  thefe  need  never  be 
dried,  but  kept  always  in  the  Picklej  and 
boird,  when  you  have  Occafion,  out  of  the 
pickle. 

r 

An  admirahle  Pickle,  in  Imitation  of 
India  Bamboo,  exa┬μflj  as  that,  is 
done, 

! 

np  A  K  E  the  largeft  and  youngcft  Shoots 

έΨι*-    of  Elder,   which  put  out  the  middle 

of  Mayy  the  middle  Stalks  are  molt  tender 

and  biggeft,  the  fmall  are  not  worth  doing ; 

pQpl 


//┬╗ 


iot      A  ColkHion  of  Receipts 

peel  off  the  outward  Peel  or  Skin,  and  lay 
them  in  a  ftrong  Brine  of  Salt  and  Water  fot 
one  Nightj  and  then  dry  them  in  a  Cloth^ 
Piece  by  Piece  ;    in  the  mean   time,   m^e 
your  Pickle  of  half  White-wine^  and  half 
Beer- Vinegar  ;  to  each  Quart  of  Pickle  you 
tnuft  put  an  Ounce  of  White  or  Red  Pepptr^ 
an  Ounce  of  Ginger  iliced,  a  little  MacCj 
and  a  few  Corns  of  Jamaica  Pepper  :  when 
the  Spice  has  boil'd  in  the  Pickle,  pour  it 
hot  upon  the  Shoots^  ftqp  them  clofe  imme- 
diately, and  fet  the  Jar  two  Hours  before 
the  Fire,  turning  it  often  \  'tis  as  good  a  way 
to  green  this  or  any  other  Pickle  as  often 
boiling,  though  either  way  is  certain,  if  you 
keep  it  fcalding  hot ;    always  ufe  Stone  Jars^ 
for  any  Sort  of  Pickle,  if  they  can  be  got ; 
the  firft  Charge  is  inconfiderable,  and  they 
do  not  only  laft  longer  than  Earth,  but  keep 
the  Pickle  better,  becaufe  Vinegar  will  pe* 
netrate  through  all  Earthen  Veffels,  and  Glaft 
will  not  bear  the  Fire  :    This  is  a  very  crilp 
pretty-tafted  Pickle. 

To  fickle  Small  Onions* 

npAKE  fmall  Onions^  peel  off  the  out- 
-*έΑλ  ward  Skin,  and  put  them  in  Salt 
and  Water  all  Night,,  pour  that  away^  and 
put  a  freih  Pickle  of  Salt  and  Water,  made 
ftronger  than  the  firft  ;  fet  them  on  the 
Fire  in  this,   and  let  themjuft  boil,  fcum 

them 


h  Cookery,  ^c.         209 

them  well,  and  take  them  off  the  Fire,  fct 
them  by  to  cool,  and  make  a  Pickle  of  Whit^- 
wine  Vinegar,  Pepper,  Mace,  and  a  little* 
Ginger  ;  let  all  ftand  to  be  coldj  then  dry 
the  Onions  from  the  Brine,  and  put  them 
into  the  Pickle  ;  if  you  add  Muftard-feed^ 
they  will  keep  Come  Time  :  They  tafte  and 
look  very  pretty  among  green  Pickles. 

To  fickle  Cucumbers  in  Slices. 

0 

np  A  K  E  thirty  large  Cucumbers,  cut 
έΨι*-  them  in  Slices,  but  not  too  thin  j  put 
them  in  a  broad  Pan,  and  lay  with  them 
fome  finall  Onions  peprd  j  let  them  ftand 
twenty-four  Hours  ;  then  put  them  into  a 
Cullender  to  drain ;  boil  two  Quarts  of 
Vinegar,  with  whole  Pepper,  large  Mace^ 
and  Ginger ;  put  the  Cucumbers  into  a 
Jar,  and  pour  the  Pickle  boiling  hot  upon 
them,  ftop  them  very  dole  that  Moment  5 
fet  them  by  for  two  Days,  and  then  boil 
the  Pickle  again^  as  before,  till  they  aref 
green'd. 

NbfCy  That  they  keep  beft  uflpar'd,  and 
the  whole  fmall  Onion  may  be  kept  in  th* 
Pickle  with  them* 


O  Ai 


έΑλ\ 


210     A  ColleSlion  of  Receipts 

An  Incomparahk  Way  to  make  Muftarii* 

TA  K  E  a  Quart  of  the  beft  Muftard- 
feed  you  can  get^  let  it  be  well  dried^ 
finely  beat  and  fiftcd,  then  put  to  mix  it,  twor 
Parts  White- wine  Vinegar,  and  one  Sack, 
alfo  one  Spoonful  of  "double-refined  Sugar  ^ 
ftop  it  clofe,  and  'twill  keep  a  Year  :  If 
you  are  curious  in  your  Seed,  this  Way  of 
making  it,  gives  a  very  agreeable  Quick- 
nefs  and  Flavour,  that  is  not  fo  diigufting  in 
the  Breath,  as  when  Garlick  is  kept  in   the 

To  Stevo  Cucumbers  to  eat  Hot. 

T^AKE  fix  large  Cucumbers,  pare  them, 
^  and  cut  them  in  Slices,  not  too  thin, 
put  them  into  your  Sauce^pan,  with  fome 
Salt,  and  a  whole  Onion,  not  too  large  j  let 
them  ftew  in  their  own  Liquor  a  little, 
then  drain  all  that  Liquor  away,  as  dry  as 
you  can  ;  and  put  to  them,  when  you  have 
taken  out  the  Onion,  one  Anchovy,  two  or 
three  Blades  of  Mace,  a  Spoonful  oif  Gravy, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Claret ;  when 
the  Anchovy  is  diffolved,  fliake  in  a  Bit  of 
burnt  Butter  to  thicken  it  j  'tis  a  Sauce 
generally  liked  with  Venilbn  or  Mutton,  and 
is  indeed  very  favoury  ;    Ibme  People  add 

Ale, 


.J 


$n  Cookery^  &c.  1 1 1 

AlCj  rather  than  Wine,  arid  'tis  very  go6d, 
Where  Wine  cannot  be  had* 

To  hep  Artichoak  Mottoms  for  Sctuct, 

'TP  a  K  E  your  Artichoaks  about  MlchaeU 
^    masy  they  may  ht  the  fmall  Plant  Sort ; 
boil  th^rh  fo  much,  as  to  take  off  all  the 
Leaves,  and  the  Choafc  ;  then  put  them  on 
Tin  Plates,  and  fet  them  into  your  Ovenf  after 
your  other  things  are  out,  when  'tis  fb  cool 
as  not  to  difcolour  them  in  the  leaft  j  do  this 
till  they  ire  very  dry  j  then  put  them  into  an 
Earthen  Pot  to  keep  j  tie  them  doWn  clofc, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  Place  j  when  yoU, 
would  life  them,  put  them  into  fbme  fcald- 
ing  Water,  till  they  are  tender,  cut  them  iti 
large  Dice ;  they  look  white^  knd  eat  very 
fweet  all  Winter* 

To  keep  Muflirooms  mthoUt  ^kkte^ 

for  Sauce. 

'TPAKE  large  MufhroomS,.  peel  them, 
-έΨι^  and  take  oup  all  the  Infide,  la,y  them 
in  Water  fome  Hours  ;  then  ftew  them  in 
their  own  Liquor,  and  lay  them  on  Tin 
it^lates,  as  you  dq  the  Artichoak-Bottoms,  in 
Hi  cool  Oven  ;  repeat  it  till  they  are  perfedly 
dry^  tid  them  down,  and  keep  thcni  dry  as 
the  other.    I  cannot  find  they  will  look 

O  %  whitc^ 


X 1 1       A  CoUeSiiott  of  Receipts 

white,  take  what  care  we  can  ;  therefore  in 
the  ftewing,  I  put  feme  Mace  and  Pepper, 
fo  they  eat  delicately,  and  look  as  well  as 
Truffles. 

I'o  Collar  Veal. 

TAKE  the  Fillet  of  a  fat  Leg  of  Veal, 
bone  it,  and  cut  the  Fat  in  Slices,  to 
mix  well,  and  roll  up  in  the  Collars  ;  -make 
your  Seafoning  of  Pepper,  Cloves,  Mace,  and 
Salt ;  ftired  alfo  Lemon-Thyme  extremely 
fmall,  place  the  Pieces  of  Fat,  &nd  ftrew  the 
Seafoning,  that  it  may  be  in  all  Places  alike  ; 
then  roll  it  very  tight,  and  boil  it  tender  in 
half  White- wine,  and  half  Water,  f^afon'd 
with  Salt  and  Spice  ;  when  'tis  enough,  new 
jroU  it,  and  keep  it  in  that  Pickle. 

A  NeatVTonguc  Pudding. 

TJOIL  a  fmall  NeatVTongue,  before  'tis 
-*-*  faked;  when 'tis  enough,  blanch  it ;  and 
when  'tis  cold,  Ihred  or  grate  it  extremery 
fine  ;  put  to  it  a  Penny  Loaf  grated,  near  a 
Quart  of  Cream,  eight  Eggs,  but  half  the 
Whites,  beat  and  ftrain  the  Eggs,  then  add 
a  Spoonful  or  two  of  Sack,  a  little  Salt,  bea- 
ten Cloves,  and  Mace,  and  Sugar  to  yoyr 
Tafte ;  a  few  Currants,  and  fbme  Citron  Peel 
candy 'd  ;  when  you  have  laid  a  PufF-pafle  in 
the  Difti,  put  in  the  Pudding ;  and  then  flick 
all  over  with  large  Pieces  of  Marrow. 


in  Cookery,  &c.  2 1  j 

The  hfi  way  to  make  the  Old  Englifli 

Bread  Pudding. 

f^  R  A  T  E  a  Penny  Loaf,  all  but  the 
^^  Gruft,  and  pour  upon  it  a  full  Pint  of 
boiling  Milk ;  if  you  can  get  Cream  'tis 
better  ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  ftand  to  fcald  ; 
for  this  Quantity  beat  up  five  Eggs,  leave  out 
two  Whites,  with  a  little  Salt,  and  a  little 
Sugar,  firain  this  to  the  Bread  and  Milk  ; 
when  that'is  pretty  cool,  grate  in  a  little  Nut-, 
meg,  and  mix  all  well  j  pour  it  into  little 
wooden  Difties  that  have  been  butter'd^  and 
are  of  a  Size,  tie  them  up  in  Cloths,  very 
tight ;  they  require  near  an  flour  to  boil, 
when  in  Difties  ;  be  fure  to  flour  the  Cloth 
you  tie  over  the  Difli,  becaufe  if  you  would 
have  your  Pudding  very  good,  you  muft 
make  it  almoft  as  thin  as  Cuftard  ;  and 
in  the  Spring,  the  Addition  of  Juice  of  Spi- 
nage,  makes  it  as  good  as  Tanfy. 

French  Bread. 

np  A  K  E  a  Quart  of  Flour,  and  put  to  it 
-*  three  Spoonfuls  of  Ale-yeaft,  an  equal 
Quantity  of  Milk  and  Water  warm'd  j  about 
the  Bignel^  of  a  Wallnut  of  good  Butter, 
and  a  little  Salt ;  make  them  pretty  light, 
and  drop  them  on  Tin  Plates,  fet  theqi  before 
the  Fire  to  rile,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick 
Oven  J  rafp  them  :    Some  People  put  three 

O  3  Eggs, 


1  \ 


┬╗ 1 4      ^  Collection  of  Receipts 

Eggs,  only  one  White,  to  this  Quantity  ; 
but  I  think  Eggs  make  it  tough,  and  not  fp 
fliort ;  but  that  as  you  plcafc. 

An  excellent  Oatmeal  Pudding. 

P  U  T  into  a  Quart  of  Milk,  juft  warm, 
^  one  Pint  of  whole  Oatmeal,  yery  care- 
fully pick'd,^  let  it  foak  at  leaft  two  Hours ; 
then  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  ftoned 
Raifins,  half  a  Pound  of  Currants,  a  little 
Salt,  four  Ounces  of  Sugar,  and  fuU  half  ^ 
Pound  of  good  Butter  j  if  you  bake  i?.  Mar-; 
iD\y  on  the  Top  is  a  good  Addition }  'tis  very 
good  eith^F  bak*d  or  boird. 

A  Rice  or  Millet  Pudding. 

nPAKE  fix  Ounces  of  whole  Rice,  or 
έΑλ  -έΨι'  Millet-fee(J,  tp  this  put  full  three  Pints 
qf  new  Milk,  rather  more  than  a  quarter  of  a 
^ound  of  Sugar,  a  little  Salt,  and  fij^  Ounces, 
or  near  half  a  Pound  of  Butter  ;  for,  unlcfs 
you  have  Marrow,  Butter  is  better  in  all 
thefe  than  Suet :  |  f?t  down  all  thefc  without 
Eggs,  becaufe  they  arc  generally  as  well,  if 
'  ijiot  better  liked  without ;  but  if  you  would 
have  them  of  the  Cuftard  fort,  you  may  add 
from  four  to  nine  Eggs ;  beat  them  well,  and 
leave  a  little  of  your  Milk  to  mix  and  ftraiu 
with  them. 


^ 


in  Cookery,  &c.         1 1  j 
jd  Pancake  Pudding. 

TP AKE  a  Quart  of  Milfc,  four  Eggs,  two 
-*έΑλ  large  Spoonfuls  of  Flour,  a  little  Salt, 
and  a  very  little  grated  Ginger  ;  Butter  your 
Difh,  and  bake  it ;  pour  melted  Butter  over 
it  when  it  comes  out  of  the  Oven  :  'Tis  a 
cheap  and  very  acceptable  Pudding,  being  left 
offcnfive  to  the  Stomach  than  fry'd  Pancakes. 

Puflfs  to  Fry  injlead  o^  Fritters. 

TPAKE  a  Pint  of  Milk,  and  mix  as  much 
-έΨι*  Flour  as  will  make  it  a  Hafty-Pud- 
ding  J  take  care  to  mix  it  with  a  little  of  the 
Milk  at  firft,  and  fo  more  and  more,  that 
when  you  fet  it  on  the  Fire  to  thicken,  it 
may  not  grow  lumpy  ;  pour  it  out  to  cool, 
and  then  add  to  it  three  Eggs,  a  little  Salt 
and  Sugar,  beat  all  in  a  Mortar  ;  fry  them 
in  good  Lard  over  a  quick  Fire  :  They  are 
to  be  dropp'd  fmall,  and  will  be  round. 

Herb  Dumplins. 

A  K  E  the  Crumb  of  a  Two-penny 
Loaf  grated,  fift  it  through  a  Cullen- 
der,, take  almoft  as  much  frefti  Beef-fuet, 
flired  and  fifted,  put  in  Thyme,  Sweet  Mar- ^ 
joram.  Savory,  and  as  much  Penny-royal 
as  all  the  other  Herbs  together  ;  let  all  be 
ihred  extremely  fmall  \    put  in  a  few  Cur- 

O  4  rants 


T 


B 


%i6     A  CoUeSiion  of  Receipts 

rants  neatly  pick'd  and  walh'd,  a  little  Salt, 
grated  Nutmeg,  and  a  Spoonful  of  Sugar, 
beat  two  Eggs,  with  two  Spoonfuls  of  Sack, 
mingle  all  thefc  ;  rub  a  little  Flour  on  your 
Hands,  and  roll  thpm  up  as  big  as  Tennis- 
Bails  ;  boil  them  half  an  Hour  ;  melt  your 
Butter  with  a  Glafs  of  Sack,  and  ftrew  Sugar 
over  them ;  'tis  beft  to  let  your  Water  boil 
before  you  put  them  in. 

An  Almond  Pudding. 

O I L  a  Quart  of  Cream,  and  when  'tis 
cold,  jput  to  it  the  Whites  of  feven  Eggs 
new  laid,  that  they  may  be  beat  to  a  Froth, 
blanch  five  Ounces  of  fine  Jordan  Almonds, 
and  beat  them  fmall,  with  ^  little  Orange- 
flower  Water,  then  mix  them  with  your 
Cream,  and  Whites  of  Eggs  j  make  it  pretty 
fweet  with  fine  Powder  Sugar,  then  lay  on 
the  Top  Tome  thin  Slices  of  Orange,  Len^n, 
and  Citron-peel  neatly  cut ;  take  Care  to 
bake  it  in  a  cool  Oven,  for  when  the  Cruft 
is  bak'd,  'tis  enough  ;  you  are  to  lay  a  thin 
Cruft  in  the  Difh,  before  you  pour  it  in,  and 
garnifh  the  Brim  with  the  fame  :  This  is  a 
very  delicate  Pudding  as  can  be  made,  and 
not  very  expenfive. 

έΑλ  To  make  Mackeroons. 

"D  L  A  N  C  H  and  beat  your  Almonds, 
έΑλέΑΦ  with  Rofe  or  Orange-flower  Water  j  to 
fy^ry  Pound  of  Alnionds,  put  a  Pound  of 

fine 


in  Cookery,  ^c.  217 

fine  Sugar,  and  the  Whites  of  three  large 
Eggs,  beat  to  a  Froth,  put  all  to  the  Almonds, 
and  beat  it  together  very  well  in  your  Mor- 
tar ;  when  'tis  fmall  enough,  make  it  fcald- 
ing'hot  in  your  Preferving-pan,  then  drop  it 
on  Wafer  Paper,  and  bake  it  on  Sheets  of 
Tin ;  be  furc  the  Oycn  be  npt  fcorching. 

ji  Lemon  Pudding, 

TPAKE  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Almonds, 
-έΨι"  blanch  them,  and  beat  them  very  fine, 
with  Orange-flower  Water,  or  fair  Water  will 
do,  to  keep  them  from  Oiling  as  th  ey  beat ; 
when  they  are  fine,  put  in  half  a  Pound  of 
Butter,  three  Quarters  of  a  Pound  of  fine 
Sugar;  then  beat  it  again,  and  grate  in  the 
Rinds  of  two  large  Lemonl^  and  fqueeze  in 
the  Juice  of  one,  and  beat  it  again  ;  put  in 
the  Yolks  of  twelve  Eggs,  well  beaten,  mix 
it  again  extremely  well  j  put  a  PufiF-Pafte  at 
the  Bottom  of  the  Difli ;  put  the  Pudding  in, 
and  cover  it  with  a  Puff-Pafte ;  three  quar- 
ters of  an  Hour  will  bake  it ;  take  Care  your 
Oven  be  not  fo  hot  to  fcorch  it :  'Tis  a  moft 
delicate  Pudding,  and  a  very  exa┬μt  and  cer- 
tain way  for  either  Orange  or  Lemon. 


'^/i 


2iS     A  CoJk^hn  of  Receipts 
An  Orange  Pudding  for  Skins. 

TAKE  the  Rinds  of  twelve  Seville  Oranges, 
boil  them  in  Water,  'till  they  are  very 
tender,  and  the  Bitternefs  almoft  gone,  the 
Water  muft  be  ftiifted  feveral  Times  ;  then 
dry  them  from  the  Water,  and  put  them  into 
a  Marble  Mortar,  and  beat  them  pretty  fmaU, 
with  half  aPoiind  of  Jordan  Almonds  blanch'd, 
putting  in  often  Sack,  and  three  or  four 
3poonAils  of  Orange-flower  Water  ;  grate  a 
Found  of  Naples  Bisket,  and  a  Penny  white 
X┬τoaf,  which  you  muft  fteep  in  warm  Milk, 
breaking  it  fbmetimes,  for  fear  it  fhould  ga- 
ther into  Lumps,  when  cold  j  put  in  twenty 
Eggs  well  beaten,  leave  out  five  Whites, 
take  two  full  Pounds  of  Hog's- Lard,  which 
you  muft  fcrape  very  fine  with  your  Spoon  ; 
put  in  a  little  Salt,  and  as  much  fine  Sugar 
as  will  make  it  very  fwcet ;  put  all  together 
when  the  Bread  and  Milk  is  cold,  and  mix 
it  extremely  well  with  your  Hands,  that  the 
Fat  be  not  in  Lumps :  This  Fat  eats  as  well 
as  Marrow ;  fill  your  Skins,  and  boil  them 
with  great  Care. 

White  Lemon  Cream* 

A  K  E  almoft  a  Pint  of  Water,  and  the 
Whites  of  nine  Eggs  very  well  beaten, 
and  the  Juice  of  four  large  Lemons,  or  five 
if  they  are  not  large ;  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  Jelly  Bag,  and  put  to  it  half  a  Pound  of 

double- 


T 


έΨι< 


T 


^┬╗  Cookery^  &c.         zip 

idouble-refin'jd  Sqgar^^eat  and  fifted  ;  ict  it 
on  a  foft  Fire/and  keep  it  conftantly^ftirring 
all  one  Way,  'till  'tis  as  thick  as  Jelly  i  pour 
,t  out  quick. 

A  Rice  White-Pot,  very  goody  indeed. 

A  K  E  one  Pound  of  Rice,  boil  it  in 
two  Quarts  of  Milk,  'till  'tis  thick  and 
tender,  then  beat  it  very  well  in  your  Mor- 
tar, with  three  or  four  Ounces  of  blanch'd 
Almonds,  boil  two  Quarts  of  Cream,  with 
Crumbs  of  white  Bread,  and  Blades  of  Mace  j 
put  all  together,  with  the  Yolks  of  eight  Eggs, 
fbme  Rofe- water,  and  Sugar  to  your  Tafte ; 
when  Yis  in  the  Oven,  lay  in  fome  candy'd 
Orange  and  Citron-peels,  cut  thin  in  hand- 
fome  Pieces :  This  is  very  good,  and  half  the 
Quantity,  of  a  quarter,  makes  a  very  pretty 
China  Bafon  full  :  Be  very  careful  in  the 
Baking  J  'tis  loon  fpoil^d,  if  too  hot. 

Cream  Flummery* 

TAKE  a  Pint  of  Cream,  three  Spoonfuls 
of  Rice  Flour,  very  fine  ground  or  , 
beat,  and  fifted  'till  it  is  finalL  three  Ounces 
of  Sugar,  and  two  Ounces  of  Almondsj^  beat 
fmall,  beat  with  fbme  Spoonfuls  of  Milk,  for 
fear  of  oiling,  the  Whites  of  three  Eggs, 
beat ;  ftrain  the  Cream  and  Eggs  to  the 
Almonds,  and  fet  it  on  the  Fire,  and  fl:ir  it 
all  one  Way,  'till  'tis  thick  and  fmooth  as  a 

Cuftard  j 


I 


120     A  ColUBion  of  Receipts 

Cuftard ;  then  pour  it  intb  deep  Glaflcs,  that 
when  'tis  cold,  it  may  turn  out  in  picked 
Shapes-j  blanch  and  cut  fome  Almonds  in 
Slips  to  ftick  upon  it. 

Currant  clear  Cakes. 

NFUSE  your  Currants  in  a  Stone  Pot  or 
Jug,  that  you  may  keep  it  clofe  covered 
in  a  Kettle  of  Water,  to  boil  till  they  are 
tender,  then  pals  them  while  they  are  hot 
through  your  Jelly-bag  ;  to  a  Pound  of  this 
Liquor,  put  a  Pound  of  double-refin'd  Sugar, 
boil'd  to  a  thick  Candy,  'till  'tis  almoft  Sugar 
again ;  then  put  in  your  Liquor,  and  make 
it  fcalding  hot,  but  it  muft  not  boil  έΑλ  then 
put  it  into  Glafles,  the  Thicknefs  you  would 
haye  your  Cakes  of,  and  put  them  into  your 
Stove,  with  a  moderate  Heat,  'till  they  are  a 
ftrong  Jelly  i  then  turn  them. out  upon  Glals 
Plates,-  fift  a  little  Sugar  on  the  Top  of  them ; 
keep  them  turned  and  ftoved  'till  they  are 
candy'd.  White  Currants  and  Pear  Plumbs 
are  done  the  fame  way. 

Rasbcrry  Cakes. 

INFUSE  your  Rasberrics  as  you  do  the 
Currants,  and  let  the  Liquor  run  out  j 
then  put  to  the  Pulp  of  the  Rasberrics  as 
much  or  more  of  the  Currant  Liquor  as  run 
out  of  the  Rasberrics  j  put  the  Weight  in 
Sugar,  and  boil  it  to  a  Candy,  exaftly  as  you 
did  the  other. 

Note, 


Y 


in  Prcfcrving^  ^c.         211 

Notej  That  the  Seeds  of  the  Rasbcrry  afe 
not  to  be  mix'd,  therefore  'tis  beft  to  ftrain 
them  thro'  a  thin  flrong  Cloth,  that  you  may  έΑλ 
get  all  the  Pulp,  and  leave  only  the  dry  Seeds 
hard  prefs'd.  Quinces  and  A pricot  clea r  Cakes, 
are  made  the  fame  way,  only  they  are  fcalded 
in  fair  Water,  till  tender,  and  not  by  Infu- 
fion,  as  this  Imall  liquid  Fruit  is┬τ 

Rasbcrry-Jam. 

O  U  are  to  infufc  your  Rasberries  as  before, 
but  muft  be  very  careful  to  pick  your 
Fruit  from  the  dead  and  maggotty  ones ;  whea 
they  a/e  tender,  take  out  fome  of  their  Li- 
quor, and  put  the  fame  Quantity  of  Currant 
Liquor  to  what  is  left ;  put  the  Weight  in 
Sugar,  and  boil  it  up  together  ;  put  it  into 
your  Glaffes,  to  eat  with  Cream  all  the  Year* 
I  believe  this  general  Rule  will  never  fail 
you,  becaufe  the  Perlbn  who  fcnt  it,  excels 
in  Sweet-Meats  j  the  Rasberry- Liquor  that 
you  take  out,  may  be  boil'd  up  for  Syrup, 
which  no  Family  Ihould  be  without  ;  but 
fome  Currant  Liquor,  put  to  the  Rasberries, 
makes  it  Jelly  j  fo  that  it  looks  better,  and 
taftes  quicker. 

To  make  Red  Quince  Marmalade  in  Jell)r. 

C  A  LD  as  many  fair  large  Quinces  as  you 
would  ufe  J  then  grate  as  many  of  the 
fmall  ones,  as  will  make  a  Pint  or  a  Quart  of 

Juice, 


s 


Ill      A  Collection  of  Receipts 

Juice,  iccording  to  the  Quantity  you  fliali 
want ;  let  this  Juice  fettle,  after  you  hare 
prefsM  it  thro'  a  coarfe  Cloth  ;  then  drain 
it  thro'  a  Jelly-bag,  that  what  you  ufc,  may 
be  perfcftly  clear  ;  to  every  Pint  of  this  Li- 
quor, put  a  Found  and  half  of  Sugar,  and  a 
Pound   and   half   of  the  fcalded   Quinces, 
which  muft  be  par'd  and  cor'd,  before  they 
are  weighed  ;  fet  it  all  at  firft  on  a  pretty 
brisk  Fire  ;  when  it  begins  to  boil,  make  it 
flower  }  and  when  you  fee  it  begins  to  tura. 
Red,  coyer  it  with  a  Fie^plate  tied  up  in  a 
Cloth  ;  when  'tis  a  fine  bright  Red,  take  it 
off,  and  fill  your  Glafles :  You  muft  carefully 
watch  the  Colour,  becaufe  it  turns  muddy  and 
black  in  a  Moment,  and  the  Colour  is  as  de- 
licate as  the  Tafte,  in  this  and  all  Sweets 
Meats. 

To  ^referve  Cherried 

npO  a  Pound  of  Cherries,  after  they  ire 
-έΨι*  pick'd  and  fton'd,  put  a  quarter  of  ^ 
Pint  of  the  Juice  of  White  Currants,  (firft 
infus'd  and  pafsM  thro'  a  Jelly-bag)  and  the 
Weight  of  both  Liquor  and  Cherries  in  dou- 
ble refined  Sugar ;  fift  your  Stigar,  and  ftrew 
it  as  you  put  them  into  your  Prelerving-Pan  ; 
boil  and  fcum  it,  till  the  Cherries  look  clear 
from  the  Scum  ;  then  put  them  into  your 
Glaffes :  Some  put  in  Goofcberry-Liquor  fb 
ftrain'd  ;  but  Currants  are  better,  if  they  are 
White,  and  full  ripe* 


in  Prcfefving,  ^c.  113 

j(  mofi  admirable  Way  to  Dry  Cherries. 

TO  every  five  Pounds!  of  Cherries  fton'd, 
put  one  Pound  of  doublc-refiri'd  Sugar  ; 
put  the  Cherries  into  the  Prefer ving- Pan,  with 
z  Yttjf  little  Water ;  make  both  juft  fcalding 
hot,  take  them  immediately  out  of  this  Li- 
(Juor,  and  dry  them ;  then  put  them  into  the 
Pan  again,  ftrewing  the  Sugar*  between  every 
Layer  of  Cherries  ;  let  it  ftaiid  to  melt,  and 
then  fet  it  on  the  Fire,  and  make  it  fcalding 
hot,  as  before,  which  muft  be  done  twice  or 
thrice  with  the  Sugar ;  then  drain  them  from 
this  Syrup,    and  lay  them  fingly  to  dry  in 
the  Sun,  or  in  your  Stove  ;  when  they  arc 
dry,  throw  them  into  a  Balbn  of  cold  Water, 
and  take  them  out  again  the  fame  Moment, 
and  dry  them  with  a  Cloth  ;  fct  them  once 
more  into  the  hot  Sun,  and  keep  them  all  the 
Year  in  a  dry  Place :  This  is  not  only  the  beft 
way  to  give  them  a  good  Tafte,  but  alfo  for 
Colour  and  Plumpnefs  j  1  never  ^  found  any 
way  lb  certain. 

To  ^referve  Green  Apricots. 

TAKE  your  Apricots  before  the  Stones 
are  hard,  put  them  into  a  coarfe  Cloth, 
with  a  large  Handful  of  Salt,  rub  them  well 
in  it  J  then  put  them  into  fcalding  hot  Wa- 
ter ;  fct  them  on  the  Fire,  and  keep  them 
fcalding  on  a  gentle  Fire,  till  they  are  green ; 

then 


/ 


124     A  CoUeiiion  of  Receipts 

then  let  them  boil  'till  they  are  tender  ;  put 
to  a  Pound  of  Apricots^  a  Pound  of  Sugar 
doublc-refin'd  j  boil  your  Sugar  to  a  thick  i 
Syrup  J  and  when  the  Apricots  are  drained 
and  cold,  and  the  Syrup  is  cold,  you  may  put 
them  together  j  what  you  defign  for  Tarts 
vrill  keep  fome  Time  with  half  their  Weight 
in  fingle-refin*d  Sugar  :  When  you  are  to 
boil  your  Sugar  to  Syrup,  you  may  wet  it 
more  than  when  ^tis  to  Candy* 

To  make  Marmalade  of  ripe  Apricots. 

O  ARE,  ftone,  and  cut  your  Apricots  inta 
*  thin  Slices  ;  then  to  a  Pound  or  Fruit, 
put  a  Pound  of  double^refin'd  Sugar,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  Pint  of  ftrong  Codlin  Liquor  j 
boil  it  as  fail  as  you  can,  and  when  the  Fruit 
it  tender,  and  clear  from  the  Scum,  which 
you  are  carefully  to  take  off,  then  fet  it  ofiT 
the  Fire,  and  break  what  pieces  you  think 
too  big  J  then  fill  your  Glafles,  and  paper 
them  when  cold┬τ 

To  make  a  Marmalade  of  Orange-^ 

Flowers. 

έΑλ 

T>  I  C  K  your  Orange-Flowers,.  Leaf  by 
^  Leaf,  and  then  boil  them  tender,  in  as 
much  Water  as  will  quite  cover  them  ;  then 
take  twice  their  Weight  in  double-refin'd 
Sugar ;  take  a  quarter  of  the  Sugar,  and  beat 
with  the  Leaves  in  a  JSfortar  i   wet  the  reft 

'  of 


> 


I 

w  Prcfcrving,  &c.  215 

of  the  Sugar,  and  boil  it  up  aUnoft  to  a  Candy 
Iiteight ;  put  the  Flowers  into  it,  and  ftir  it 
in  the  Syrup,  till  'tis  well  mix'd  ;  boil  it  juft 
up  after  ^tis  mix'd,  and  fill  your  GlafTes  ;  it  \ 
may  be  tum'd  out,  and  fifted  with  Sugar, 
and  dry'd  in  Cakes,  or  kept  in  deeper  Glaffes, 
to  eat  wet :  A  Spoonful  of  this  gives  a  fine 
Flavour  in  Almond  Cream,  or  Cream  Flum- 
mery, or  any  made  Difti  that  wants  Perfume.  έΑλ 


To  make  Apricbt  Cakes. 


T 


AKEi  aPound  of  your  ripeft  Apricots, 
fcald  them,  peel  them,  and  take  out  the 
Stoneis ;  then  mafli  them  to  Pieces  with  the 
Back  of  your  Spoon  ;  then  take  half  a  Pound 
of  dpuble-refin'd  Sugar,  arid  a  Spoonful- of 
Water,  iboil  it  to  a  Candy:  j-  then  put  in  the 
Pulp  of  your  Apricots  ^  let  it  ftand  a  quarter 
of  an  Hour  on  the*  Fire,  and  boil  a  little, 
ftirring  it  well ;  then  pour  it  into  fliallow  flat 
Glafles,  that  it  may  cafily  turn  out  ;  let  it 
ftand  two  Days  in  the  Glafles ;  then  lay  them 
on  Glafs  Plates,  flove  theip,  and  turn  them 
daily. 

lou  may  do  Quince  Cakes  thus,  only  al- 
low more  Sugar  ;  but  if  your  Apricots  are 
full  ripe,  this,  by  that  time  they  are  skinn'd 
and  fton'd,  is  a  fit  Quantity,  and  will  keep 
them  all  the  Year. 


f^ 


2  z6      A  Colle^ion  of  Receipts 

To  ^refirve  Currants,  Red  and  White; 

PICK  out  all  the  little  Seeds  with  a  QuiH  ; 
to  half  a  Pound  of  thefe  fton'd  Currants, 
put  a  Pound  of  the  Currant  Liquor^  infused, 
and  paiis'd  thro'  a  Jelly-bag  ;  and  put  the 
Weight  of  both  in  double-re6ii'd  Sugar ;  put 
all  together  into  your  Freferving  Pan,  boil 
them  all  together  on  a  quick  Fire,  tiU  they 
look  clear,  and  the  Scum  has  done  rifing  ^ 
then  put  them  intp  your  Glafles,  and  paper 
them  clofe. 

To  ^refirve  Grapes. 

SKIN  and  ftone  your  Grapes;  and  to 
every  Pound,  put  a  Pound  of  double- 
refinM  Sugar,  beat  and  fifted  ;  ftrew  ibme 
between  and  over  the  Grapes,  as  you  put 
them  carefully  into  your  Prcferving  Pan,  and 
keep  out  one  quarter  of  the  Sugar,  to  ftrew 
on  them  in  boiling  ;  fet  them  on  a  quick 
Fire  ;  cover  them  with  a  Silver  or  Earthen 
Plate ;  ftrew  on  the  remaining  Sugar,  as  they 
boil  up  ;  when  t|iey  look  clear,  take  them 
off  the  Fire ;  let  it  ftand  off  the  Fire,  covered, 
a  little  while  ;  then  fcum  them  clean,  and 
put  them  into  Glaffes. 

To  "Dry  Plumbs. 

TT  AKE  half  the  Weight  of  the  Plumbs  in 

-*-    Sugar;  boil  it  to  a  Syrup,  not  too  thick; 

flit  your  Plumbs  down  the  Seam,   and  put 

them 


in  Prcferving,  ^rc.         227 

them  into  this  Syrup  j  fct  them  on  the  Fire, 
and  keep  them  fcaldins  hot^  till  they  are 
-  tender,  and  be  fuie  to  let  the  Syrup  cover 
them,  that  they  may  keep  their  Colour  ;  let 
them  lie  $  Day  in  this  Syrup  ;  then  make  a 
thick  Syrup  of  near  the  Weight  in  Sugar, 
iK)il'd  almoft  to  a  Candy  j  when  'tis  cold, 
drain  your  Plumbs  out  01  the  firft  Syrup, 
and  put  them  into  this ;  they  mui|:  alfo  be 
covered  with  this  Syrup,  and  fet  on  the  Fire 
to  fcald,  till  they  look  clear ;  fet  them  by 
three  Days  in  this  laft  Syrup  ;  then  lay  them 
on  Glafs  Plates,  and  dry  them  in  the  Sun,  or 
your  Stove,  turning  them  often  5  if  jgreen, 
they  muft  be  firft  rubb'd  in  Salt,  and  fcalded 
green,  as  green  Apricots. 

uin  excellent  Way  to  Prefer ve  or  Cmdy 
Orange  or  Lemon  Peels. 

BOIL  the  Peels  very  tender,  fliifting  the 
Water  four  or  five  times  in  the  boilingik 
more  or  lefs^  as  you  chufe  the  bitterifli  Fla- 
vour; then  put^  ^|iem  in  Water  two  or  three 
Days ;  but  if  they  arc  well  boilM,  this  laft  Wa- 
tering is  beft  let  alone,  tho"tis  the  Direftion 
of  a  very  nice  Confeftioner  ;  but  I  le^vc  it 
to  the  Judgment  of  the  Expwrienc'd  :  Then 
take  half  their  Weight  in  Sugar;  and  to  each 
Pound  of  Sugar,  put  a  Quart  of  Water ;  boil 
and  fibum  it  Very  clean  ;  then  put  in  your 
Peels  ;  let  them  lie  a  Fortnight ;  heat  them 

P  a  once 


xi8     A CoHeSiion  of  Receipti 

once  a  Day ;  then  take  a  little  more  thail 
half  their  Weight  in  Sugar  again  ;  and  to 
each  Pound  of  this  Sugar,  put  a  Pint  of  Wa- 
ter V  hoil  this  Syrup  as  before  ;  put  in  your 
Feels,  and  heat  them,  till  they  look  clear, 
1;>ut  never  let  them  boil  ^  you  may  keep  theni 
all  the  Year  for  Ufe  in  this  laft  Syrup,  if 
you  ibmetimes  heat  it ;  'tis  beft  fo  for  moll: 
Ufcs,  as  Apple-Pies,  Cakes,  &c*  but  if  you 
want  it  candy 'd,  boil  a  little  double-refin'd 
Loaf-Sugar  to  a  Candy  Height,  and  throw 
them  in  to  boil  up  ;  lay  them,  out  to  dry  in 
the  Sun,  or  in  your  Stove  :  Thus  you  may 
do  Orange  Chips. 

To  make  a  pretty  Sort  o/Lemon*pufl&. 

TO  a  Pound  of  double- refin'd  Sugar,  fine- 
ly beat  and  fifted ;  take. the  Juice  of  two 
Lemons,  beat  them  together  in  a  Bowl ;  and 
as  you  beat  them,  put  in  White  of  Egg,  firft 
beat  to  a  very  high  Froth,  till  'tis  white  as 
Snow;  when  you  have. beat  all  together 
fome  time,  and  put  in  the  Quantity  of  Egg 
you  defign,  which  muft  be  three  at  leaft  to 
every  Pound  of  Sugar  ;  then  add  the  Rind 
of  two.  fair  Lemons,  finely  grated  ;  beat  it 
till  all  is  well  mix*d  ;  fift  your  Papers  with 
Sugar,  and  drop  on  the  Puffs  in  fmall  Drops; 
you  may  add  any  Perfume  you  like^  but 
they  are  very  good  without. 

fo 


i 


ft 

in  Paftry,  &c,  iij^ 

/ 

┬╗ 

^0  make  Savoy  Biskets. 

TAKE  twelve  Eggs,  and  leave  out  half 
the  Whites  j  beat  them  up  with  a  fmall 
Whisk  ;  put  in  two  or  three  Spoonfuls  of 
Rofe  or  Orange-flower  Water  ;  and  as  you 
beat  it  up,  ftrew  in  a  Pound  of  double  refin'd 
Sugar,  that  is  firft  beat  and  fifted  very  fine  ; 
when  thefc  Eggs  and  Sugar  are  as  thick  and 
white  as  Cream,  take  a  Pouqd  and  two 
Ounces  of  the  fineft  Flour,  that  is  dry'd,  and 
mix  it  in  j  then  lay  them  in  long  Cakes,  and 
bake  them  in  a  cool  Oven. 

jTofeafin  a  Vcnifon-Pafty. 

TF  your  Venifbn  be  the  Side  of  a  largtf 
^  Buck,  you  may  take  off  a  fine  Neck  to 
roaft  ;  then  bone  and  skin  what  remains^ 
which  will  make  as  large  a  Pafty,  as  the 
whole  Side  of  a  Doe  j  but  if  you  would 
bake  all  the  Side  of  the  Buck,  your  Seafon- 
ing  muft  be  an  Ounce  and  quarter  of  beaten 
Pepper,  and  full  as  much  Salt  as  twice  the 
Bignefi  of  the  Heap  of  Pepper  ;  rub  all  over 
the  Meat,  and  then  lay  your  Meat,  of  an 
equal  Thicknefs,  into  a  very  large  Soup- 
difti,  without  any  Cruft  at  Bottom  ;  (for 
thus  ftewing  in  its  own  Gravy,  is  a  great 
Improvement  upon  the  old-faftiion'd  Way  of 
a  Bottom  Cruft,  and  ftred  Suet  upon  that,  to 
keep  it  moift)  :  This  full  Quantity  of  Meat 

P  3  will 


2  }o     A  Colk^ion  of  Receipts 

wiJ]  require  near  three  Pounds  and  a  half  of 
Butter  to  lay  over  it,  i^nlefs  your  Venifon  be 
exceeding  fat ;  put  a  Roll  of  Fade  quite 
round  the  Meat,  tha(  it  may  ferve  for  Pud-  ^ 
ding-crufty  and  to  fallen  the  Lid  to,  which  \ 
make  by  the  Rule  in  the  next  Receipt ;  let 
the  Lid  be  thick,  and  wet  the  infide  Roll^ 
that  you  may  clofe  it  fail ;  put  what  Orna- 
ments you  pleafe  on  the  Top  ^  but  the  fewe'r 
there  are,  the  better  your  Cruft  will  rife  j  ^ 
make  a  Hole  on  the  Top,  and  put  in  a  quar- 
ter of  a  Pint  of  Water,  juft  as  it  goes  into  the. 
Oven  ;  this  will  take  fix  Hours  to  be  well 
fbak'd.  The  Bones  and  Skins  muft  be  fea- 
fbn'd,  and  put  into  a  Pan  juft  covered  with 
Wat;cr,  and  bak'd  at  the  fame  TimCj^  left  th^ 
Pafty  fliould  want  Liquor. 

Notej  You  muft,  at  Difcrction,  abate  of 
this  Quantity  of  Seafbning  and  Butter,  as  the 
Venifon  is  in  Quantity  ^  this  is  in  full  for  the 
largeft  Side. 

Pafte  far  the  Pafty. 

npO  fcven  Pounds  of  Flour,  put  three 
^  Founds  and  a  half  of  Butter,  and  fix 
Eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  Whites,  which 
are  apt  to  make  the  Cruft  tough  ;  put  in  one 
Pound  of  the  Butter,with  the  Eggs  and  Water, 
into  the  Middle  of  the  Flour,  (which  fhould 
be  always  of  the  fineft  Sort)  ;  wet  it  pretty 
ftiff,  then  roll  it  out,  and  work  in  the  Re- 
mainder of  the  Butter,  by  flicking  it  on  in 

Bits, 


in  Paftry,  &e.  151 

Bits,  and  fliaking  on  Flour ;  fo  double  and 
rol],  and  ftick  on  more,  till  the  whole  is 
taken  up.  This  for  all  Meat-Pafiies  is  fat 
enough ;  but  if  you  make  it  for  Fruit-Tarts, 
where  the  Craft  is  to  be  very  thin,  you  muft 
allow  full  three  quarters  of  a  Pound  of  Butter, 
and  one  Egg,  to  every  Pound  of  Floun 

Icing  for  Tarts. 

TA  K  E  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  .fine  Loa& 
Sugar,  beat  it  very ,  fihe,  and  fift  it ; 
put  it  into  your  very  clean  Mortar,  with  the 
White  of  one  Egg,  and  two  Spoonfuls  of  Rofe 
or  Orange-flower  Water  j  ftir  it  all  one  Way, 
till  your  Tarts  are  bak'd,  and  almoft  cold  ; 
then  ftrike  them  all  over  the  Top,  with  a 
fmall  Bunch  of  Feathers  dippM  m  this  Icing, 
and  fet  them  into  your  cool  Oven  again,  till 
they  are  harden^  ;  take  care  (hey  do  not 
grow  difcolour'd  by  ftanding  too  long. 

To  make  Orange-Tarts, 

nr  A  K  fe  twelve  of  the  faireft  Seville  Oran- 
ges  ;  pare  off  the  Rinds  as  thin  as  ^cis 
poifible,  that  fbme  of  the  Yellow  may  remain 
on  the  Orange  ;  put  them  into  fair  Water  as 
you  pare  them ;  then  cut  them  in  halves, 
and  fqueeze  the  Juice  into  a  clean  Baibn  ; 
jflrill  throw  your  Oranges  into  clean  Water  j 
when  all  your  Juice  is  out,  put  to  it  half  a 
Pint  of  fair  Water  ;  cover  it,  and  fet  it  by 
till  you  have  boil'd  your  Oranges  tender,  in 

P  4  ^^ 


%^i  A  ColkStion  of  Receipt Sy  Sec. 

fo  many  Waters  as  are  requifite  to  take  ofF 
the  Bitternefs  ;  when  this  is  done,  take  out 
the  Skin,  and  ftringy  Fart  that  is  in  the  In┬τ- 
fide,  ftill  throw  them  into  Water  ;  then  cut 
them  into  Slices,  and  dry  them  in  a  clean 
Cloth  ;  ftraih  out  the  Juice  and  Water  from 
the  Seeds,  which  will  be  pretty  thick,  like 
Jelly  ;  put  four  or  five  Spoonfals  into  every 
Tart ;    one  Orange  will  fill  a  Tart  5    your  \ 

Sugar  muft  be  fine  Loaf  powdcr'd,  and  about 
a  Found  and  a  quarter  will  feafbn  the  twelve 
Tarts  ;  when  the  Cruft  is  bak'd,  they  are 
enough,  and  will  look  very  clear;  if. you 
like  Apple,  you  may  mix  the  Apple  and 
Orange  ;  and  if  your  Oranges  are  not  very 
juicy,  you  may  add  the  Juice  of  a  Lemon  j 
thefe  are  a  vcty  proper  Tart  for  Winter.     , 

To  make  4  gopd  Ginger-bread  without 

Butter. 

TAKE  two  Pounds  of  Treacle  ;  candy'd 
Orange,  Lemon  and  Citron  Feel,  of 
each  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  ;  as  much  candyM 
Ginger,  all  flic'd  thin  ;  one  Ounce  of  Carra- 
>vay-fced,  and  one  Ounce  of  Coriander-Iced, 
with  one  Ounce  of  beaten  Ginger  ;  mix  in 
as  much  Flour  as  will  make  it  a  (oft  Pafie  ; 
lay  it  in  Cakes  on  Tin  Plates,  and  bake  it  in 
a  quick  Oven  ;  keep  it  dry,  and  it  will  be 
good  ibmc  Months. 

A  COL- 


lU 


ti:ei:liii"t  s 

.  '  wis? .  . 


"je:  -┬╗-  -┬╗έΑλ  -┬╗┬╗.g;  ^^^gg:  '┬╗έΑλ  -^f:  έΑλ┬╗έΑλ 
S       -i-"*'-S'-S┬╗-Svslsj┬τ.:┬╗i;s';┬τ:.┬τ..┬╗..s.,┬τ. 


of  the 

┬τSM^┬╗┬τ^  J'^'┬χ"?┬χ^BP=S*|┬τFS=0f  that 
4^5%,.  .gir.j^.j^.  .||.  :^  -JJ.  -f .  :f :  -5^.  .5.  .j^.     ^jjjj^ 


έΨι 


1^4     ^  ColUHion  cf  Receipts 

with  a  pretty  quick  Fire ;  in  the  mean  time^ 
you  are  to  put  one  Pound  of  thofe  dry^d 
Feels  into  one  Quart  of  Brandy ,  let  it  be  the 
very  beft  you  can  get  ^  when  tbefe  Peels  are 
foakM  enough^  put  to  each  Qiiart  of  that 
Brandy,  one  Quart  of  Madeira  Wine  j  then 
difltl  that  Brandy,  and  Wine,  and  Peels,  in 
a  cold  Still ;  and  put  one  Pint  of  the  fimple 
Water  to  a  Quart  of  the  other  ilrong  Water  ; 
make  a  Syrup  of  double-refinM  Sugar  ;  put 
to  each  Found  of  Sugar,  almoft  three  Pints  I 

df  Water,  and  the  Whites  of  three  Eggs  j  ' 

let  it  boll,  and  then  pafs  it  thro^  your  Jelly- 
bag,  till,  'tis  extremely  fine  ;  put  half  a  Pint 
of  this  Syrup  to  each  Quart  of  the  mix'd 
Water,  more  or  lefi,  as  you  love  it  for 
Swcetnefs  j  and  to  each  Quart,  put  a  Bit  of 
Alliim,  as  big  as  a  Pea  j  when  you  fee  it 
perfedly  clear  and  fine,  rack  it  oflF  into  other 
Bottles  ;  and  put  into  each  Bottle  Ibme  of 
the  Citron  Flowers. 

I  did  with  great  Diflicuky  procure  this 
Receipt  fo  exaft,  becaufe  either  Lemons  or 
Oranges  do  ds  well,  and  are  very  often  whafi 
we  want  to  difpole  of,  when  we  have  had 
Occafion  to  ufe  large  Quantities  of  the  Juice  ; 
and  having  try'd  it,  you  may  be  convinced, 
that  of  frefh  thick-rind  I^emons,  you  may  at 
anytime  make  a  Liquor  as  good  as  they  do  in 
Barbados  ^  efpeciaily  where  the  Green-houfe 
affords  you  Orange  or  Lemon  Flowers. 

3  Jli 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery,      ijj 
^n  excellent  Poppy- Water/or  an  Afthma. 

FILL  a  large  Glafs  full  of  frcfli  Poppies  ; 
pour  to  it  one  Quart  of  Hyflbp  Water, 
one  Pint  of  Damask  Rofc  Water,  one  Pint 
'  of  Penny-royal  Water,  and  two  Quarts  of 
Compound  Briony  Water  ;  put  in  alfb  eight 
Ounces  of  fton'd  Raifins,  four  Ounces  of 
flic'd  Figs,  two  Ounces  of  Sugar-candy,  two 
Ounces  of  Syrup  of  Maiden-hair,  two  Ounces 
of  Syrup  of  Ground-Ivy,  two  Ounces  of 
flic'd  Liquorice,  Carra way- feeds,  and  Ani- 
feed,  of  each  three  Ounces  bruis'd  j  let  thelc 
Hand  fix  Weeks  in  the  Sun ;  thejn  ftrain  it 
off  J  and  when  the  Breath  is  very  bad,  drink 
four  Spoonfuls  ^  In  Extremity  you  may  mix 
half  an  Ounce  ofOxymel  ofSquils  with  every 
Dofe. 

J  ^kafant  Medicine  for  a  Cough. 

pUT  two  large  Lemons  over  a  gentle 
^  Fire,  to  coddle,  as  you  do  an  Apple  ; 
when  they  are  foh^  take  them  out  before 
they  burft,  (which  they  will  be  very  apt  to 
do,  if  your  Fire  be  fierce)  ;  cut  them,  and 
take  out  the  Juice  arid  foft  Pulp  from  the 
Seeds,  Strings,  and  Rind  ;  put  to  this  Pulp 
four  Ounces  of  Sugar-candy  finely  beat ;  four 
Ounces  of  Oil  of  fweet  Almonds,  and  two 
Oqnces  of  Syrup  of  Poppies  j  mix  all  well 
together,  and  take  a  large  Spoonful  whenever 
your  Cough  is  troublcfome. 

Jn 


I 


έΨι\ 


'ijd     ji  Ccih'aion   of  Receipts 

An  eajy  Medicine  for  a  dry  Husking  '.' 

Cough. 

έΑλ 

T^RINK  near  a  Pint  of  Spring  Water, 
έΨι*^  as  hot  as  you  can,  the  laft  thing  you     ' 
do,  going  to  Reft. 

This  is  recommended  by^  one  whofe  IntCf- 
grity  may  be  depended  on  ;  and  thp'  'tis 
feemingly  a  trifling  Prefcription,  it  has  done 
very  wonderful  Cures. 

jin  admirable  Medicine  for  the  Piles. 

TAKE  a  Handful  of  the  Leaves  of  Mul- 
lein, and  boil  it  in  a  Pint  of  Milk  ; 
fVeeten  this  with  an  Ounce  of  Syrup  of  Vi- 
olets, and  drink  it  every  Night,  going  to  Reft, 
for  five  or  fix  Weeks,  and  it  will  certainly 
take  away  the  Caufe. 

Lozenges  fw  the  Piles,  as  md  in  the 

Weft-Indies.     .     " 

TWO  Ounces  of  Flour  of  Sulphury  of  fine 
Sugar  pounded,  with  Mucilage  of  Gum- 
Tacamahaca,  and  Red  Rofe  Water,  four 
Ounces :  Make  it  into  Lozenges,  and  dry 
thtm  before  the  Fire,  or  in  an  Oven,  after 
the  Things  are  drawn;  take  about  the  Quan- 
tity of  one  Dram  daily.  This  is  a  moft  vfc 
luable  Medicine* 


Jn 


fjn  Phyfick  and  Surgery.'     257 

An  jExcelknt  Remedy  fir  the  Stoae 

Cholick. 

TAKE,  three  Mornings  together,  fix 
Spoonfuls  of  Milk-Water  cold  diftill'd, 
and  as  much  good. White- wine  j  and  before 
you  drink  it,  flice  a  Spoonful  of  Ginger  very 
thin  ;  wet  it  with  lome  of  this  Mixture, 
ftvallow  it,  and  drink  the  reft '  after  it  ;  do 
this  for  three  Mornings  ;  and  the  three  fol- 
lowing Mornings,  take  two  Spoonfuls  of  the 
beft  5allad  Oil  you  can  get ;  ftrew  a  little 
Sugar  upon  it,  and  fwallow  it  down,  drink- 
ing after  it  a  Draught  of  warm  Ale, 
fweetcn'd  with  Honey ;  take  thele  two 
Medicines  interchangeably  for  nine  Morn- 
ings together  :  This  has  been  very  often 
approved  with  adnihrable  Succels  in  violent 
Fits. 

For  a  ChoVick  attended  with  pcCmJid 

Vomitings. 

T^  AKE  a  large  Chicken,  and  fill  it  with 
^  Manna  as  full  ay  it  will  hold  j  put  it  in- 
to two  Gallons  of  Water,  with  a  quarter  of 
an  Ounce  of  Mace  ;  let  it  boil  as  quiqk  as  pof- 
fible,  till  two  or  three  Quarts  be  wafted, 
the  Manna  confum'd,  and  the  Fowl' boil'd 
to.  Rags  J  then  fli-ain  it,  and  let  the  Patient 
drink  at  leaft  one  Gallon  of  it  j'  and  as  faft 
?  as 


138     ^  ColteSi'wn  of  Receipts 

as  one  Porringer  comes  up,  let  him  drink 
anqther,  tUJ  it  works  downwards  j  when  he 
has  drank  all,  and  the  Operation  is  oyer,  let 
him  take  the  following  Julep. 

fThe    Compopng    Draught    for    the 

Cholick. 

T^AKE  two  large  Spoonfuls  of  Mint- 
^  Water,  two  of  Hyftcrick-Water,  one 
of  Oil  of  fweet  Almonds^  and  one  Ounce  of 
Syrup  of  Diacodium  ;  if  'tis  for  a  Man,  add 
ten  Drops  of  liquid  Laudanum,  and  twenty 
Drops  of  Spirit  of  Harts*hom  ;  if  for  a  Wo- 
man, only  twenty  Drops  of  Tindure  of 
Caftor ;  add  alio  for  either,  two  or  three 
Drops  of  Oil  of  Juniper  ;  drink  this  Draught; 
and,  under  God,  you  may  abfolutely  depend 
on  ReH  and  Eafe,  and  a  fafe  Cure  ;  for  the 
Mannadoes  lb  gently  make  itsPalTage,  as,  by 
Repetition,  is  Hire  to  carrjr  off  that  Iharp 
Humour  that  was  the  Caufe  of  this  Tumult 
in  the  Bowels  ;  and  then  an  ┬σpiat  may  be 
fafely  given,  when  this  Operation  is  over  j 
but  before,  'tis  dangerous  :  I  would  very 
earneftly  recommend  this  Method,  becauie 
'twas  thirty  Years  the  fuccelsful  Fradice  of 
an  excellent  Apothecary,  and  given  me  as  a 
very  valuable  Specifick  on  this  Occafion. 


For 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery^     15^ 
For  the  Stone. 

TAKE  Milkpedts,  and  white  Amber^ 
of  each  a  like  Quantity,  finely  pow- 
dcr'd  J  half  as  mtich  Nutmeg,  finely  grated  j 
as  much  Chio  Turpentine  as  will  beat :  Mix 
them  in,  a  warm  Mortar  into  a  Mafi  for  Pills  ; 
let  your  Millepedes  die  in  White  or  Rhenifli 
Wine  ;  a  little  more  Turpentine  than  all  the 
reft  weigh;  is  fufficient  j  take  fafting  the 
Quantity  of  five  large  Peas,  in  Tea,  or  any 
fuch  Thing, 

For  the  Gravel. 

TAKE  half  a  Pint  of  Ale,  boil  it,  and 
fcum  it  very  clean  j  then  fet  it  off  the 
Fire,  till  you  beat  up  the  Yolks  of  two  new- 
laid  Eggs  with  one  Spoonful  of  Honey  ; 
mix  it  with  the  Ale,  when  *tis  cold  enough 
to  mix  without  curdling :  Drink  this  Draught 
nine  Mornings. 

Tofiop  a  vioJent  Bleeding  inmediateJy, 

T^  I P  a  Piece  of  black  Bays  in  the  Iharpeft 
^^  Vinegar  you  can  get,  and  lay  it  to  the 
Groin  of  the  Patient ;  as  it  grows  warm,  dip 
it  again  :  It  gives  a  fudden  Check,  and  is 
the  Pra&ice  in  the  Wefi  Indies^  among  the 
Blacks,  who  are  fubjett  to  this  Diftemper, 

and 


%j^o     AColk┬μilon  of  Receipts 

and  often  loft  by  the  Violence  of  it :  And 
this  does  feldom  fail  in  Extremity. 

έΨι 

For  a  Loofcnefs  and  Bloody  Flux. 

TA  K  E  the  Yolks  of  two  new-laid  Eggs, 
and  put  them  into  a  Glafs  of  ftrong 
Cinnamon  Water,  and  sdrink  it  all  j  Brandy, 
Rum,  Rofa-lblis,  or  indeed  any  ftrong  fpiri- 
tuous  Liquor,  will  do  as  well  as  Cinnamon 
Water,  and  does  very  feldom  fail :  But  I 
think  fuch  hot  Things,  how  well  foevei*  re- 
commended, Ihould  never  be  us'd,  but  in 
the  greateft  Extremity  ;  becaufe  chewing  of 
Rhubarb  is  as  certain,  and  carries  off  the 
Caule  ;  and  of  all  the  fudden  Cures,  I  pre- 
fer Venice  Treacle. 

An  excellent  Ak  for  the  fecur/y. 

^T^  A  K  E  one  Peck  of  Garden  Scurvy-grafs ;  ' 
*  of  Water-creffes,  and  Brooklime,  each 
four  Handfiils  j  dry'd  Fumitory,  Ground- 
Ivy,  Liverwort,  Tops  of  Fir,  and  Tamarisk, 
of  each  two  Handfuls ;  Roots  of  fliarp-pointed 
Dock  flic'd,  four  Ounces  j  Horfe-^radilh 
Roots,  Saifafras,  and  Daucus  Seed,  each  one 
Ounce;  two  large  Seville  Oranges  llic'd  :  Put 
all,  being  gently  bruis'd,  into  a  Can^vas 
Bag,  and  hang  it  into  fix  Gallons  of  Ale  j 
when  it  is  fine,  drink  a  Draught  in  a  Morn- 
ing, or  at  any  Time  in  the  Day  :  This  was 

ordered 


in  Phyfick  and  Sutgetyl     241 

ordered  by  Sergeant  Barnard^  and  is  an  in- 
comparable Ale  for  that  Purpofe  j  but  where 
the  Scurvy  and  Droply  meet,  and  the  Legs 
fwell,  if  the  Stomach  can  bear  it,  the  Juices 
of  the  Herbs,  with  Seville  Orange  Juice,  arc 
a  more  fpeedy  and  effedual  Method. 

A  foery  good  Purging  Diet-Drink  for 

the  fame. 

TAKE  new  Wort,  nine  Gallons  ;  boil 
in  it  one  good  Handful  of  Fir,  with  a 
few  Hops  ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  work  it  in  thte 
Barrel,  as  for  other  Ale  j  then  take  Scurvy- 
grafs,  Water-creffes,  and  Brooklime,  of  each 
four  Handfuls  ;  Harts- tongue,  Liver- wort, 
of  each  two  Handfuls ;  Dock- root,  and  Po- 
lypody of  the  Oak  flic'd,  of  e^ch  two  Hand- 
fuls ;  Rhubarb,  Gentian,  Saflafras,  and  Sen- 
na, of  each  two  Ounces  :  Cut  your  Herbs 
very  fmall,  and  mix  them  all ^  together  ; 
flice  in  four  Seville  Oranges,  and  bruilc  two 
Ounces  of  Carraway  and  Cardimum-feeds  ; 
put  all  into  a  Bag  ;  let  it  work  together  ; 
when  it  has  been  ftopp'd  down  a  Week,  'tis 
fit  to  drink. 

For  tf  Dropfy. 

A  K  E  the  Leaves  of  Alh-trees,  as  fboa 
ak  they  begin  to  come  out,  and  double 
diftil  them  ;  give  nine  Spoonfcfls  of  this  Wa- 
ter, with  one  Spoonful  of  Muftard-ieedy  in 


T 


2^\     A^  Colle0ion  of  S^ceipts 

the  fi((orQiqg  )  and  at  four  or  five  in  the  AiU 
t^rnoon^  give  4  Spooafol  of  Muftard-i^^ 
in  tl^  likq  Quantity,  of  White-wine  :  This  i]i 
recommended  ^s  never  failiiag.  When  the 
;p|ftea;iper  is,  taken  at  6Tft┬╗  reft  from  taking 
it  for  ten  Pay%  and  theQ  begin  ag^. 

A  nu^  mcMiparahk  Spring  Wtter  to 
pweeten  the  Bkody  and  eafe  all  wan^^ 
dring^iuns. 

TAKE  the  Leaves  both  of  the  Garden 
and  Sea  Scurvy-grafs,  waih  and  pick 
all  clean^  of  each  fix  Pounds  ;  preis  out  the 
][uice  of  the  Sea  Scurvy-grafs  j  put  al┬μb  the 
JUifje  of  BrookJime,  and  Water-cr.cffes,  of 
each  one  Qy  art  J  of  the  beft  White-? wiiic,  one 
Gallon  J  twelve  SeviUe  ┬σranges  j  of  Iriih  and 
Briony-rppts  flic'd,  one  Pound;  Horfe-radiflh 
Roots,  two  Pounds:  Winter  Bark  flic'd,  half 
a  Pound  ;  Kutmcgs  bruis'd,  a  quartet  of  a 
]^6und  ;  let  all  thefe  fleep  four  Days^  and 
then  diftil  them  in  a  Limbeck  :  Take  fix 
Spoonfuls  every  Morning,  and  at  four  in  the 
Afternoon. 

έΨι 

An  excellent  Purging  Elixir. 

A  K  E  an  Ounce  of  good  Rhubarb  j  two 

Ounces  of  Senna  ;  half  an  Ounce  of  Li** 

(jj)orice  J   Juniper,  Anifecd|  and  Cajrraway- 

feed, 


in  Phy/iejt  and  Surgery*     145 

feed,  of  each  half  an  Ounce ;  Cochineal, 
Myrrh,  and  ^afFron^  of  each  a  cjiiarter  of  an 
Ounce  ;  Raifins  fton'd,  two  Ounces  :  Bruife 
the  Seeds,  flice  the  R^barb  and  Liquorice, 
and  piit  all  the  Ingredients  into  a  Quart  of 
good  Brandy,  and  half  a  Pint  of  Compound 
Briony- Water  j  I  alfo  add  long  Pepper,  and 
Cinnamon,  of  each  half  an  Ounce  :  When 
it  has  ftood  a  MontJ^  to  infuie,  ftrain  it  out, 
and  add  half  a  Pint  of  the  purging  Syrup  of 
Roies.  Take  fix  Spoonfuls  of  this,  whcn- 
evet  you  fear  a  Fit  of  the  Cholidc,  or  find  a 
Sicknefs  and  Loathing  in  your  Stomach. 


\ 


A  Syrup  for  an   old  Cough^  and   td 

eJeanfi  the  Bread. 

nPAKE  Liquorice,  and  Maiden-hair,  of 
έΑλ*-  each  two  Ounces  j  dty'd  Hyflbp,  one 
Ounce  ;  Anrfeeds,  two  Drams  :  Infufe  all 
one  Day  and  Night,  in  two  Quarts  of  Spring 
Water,'  let  thcni  boU  <jin  a  fofC  Fire,  'till  half 
be  conium'd  ;  ftrain  it  hard>  and  put  to  it  a 
Pound  and  half  of  clarify 'd  Honey,  and  good. 
White-wine  Vinegar,  as  much  as  will  make 
it  pretty  fharp  ;  then  boil  it  again,  'till  'tis  a 
thick  Syrup  ;  keep  it  for  Ufe  ;  and  if  you 
would  add  a  grateftil  Tafte,  drop  in  three  or 
four  Drops  of  Oil  of  Cinnamon  :  This  is  not 
only  fafe,  but  very  highly  recommended  to 
be  taken  firft  and  laft. 

Q^  a  A  mofli 


r 


'lAfAf     A  Culh^m  of  Receipts 

A  mofi  excellent  Proce^  in  a  Confom^ 

tion. 


C 


fZ^^  Confirm. 


ONSERVE  of  Hips,  fix  Ounces* 

fhe  Milk-Water. 

Take  dry'd  Mint,  one  Handful ;  Ground- 
Ivy,  three  Handfuls  \  fix  Nutmegs  ili|:'d  ^ 
one  Quart  of  Snails,  cleanM  and  bruis'd  \ 
diftil  thefe  in  a  Gallon  of  Milk,  and  a  Quart 
of  White-wine. 

fhe  Syruf. 

Take  Balfam  of  Tolu,  half  an  Ounce  ; 
boil  it  in  two  Pints  of  Barley- Water,  'till 
half  be  boil'd  away  ;  flrain,  and  add  to  it  as 
much  Sugar,  as  will  make  it  a  weak  Syrup- 

U'he  Perioral  Pills. 

Take  Pill  of  Storax,  and  of  Hounds- 
tongue,  each  half  a  Dram  ;  mix  them,  and 

m&ke  it  into  twelve  Pills. 

\, 

51&I?  Purging  Pills.  ┬╗ 

Take  PHI  Rufus,  two  Drams  ;  Salt  of 
Tartar,  half  a  Scruple  j  Chymical  Oil  of 
Marjoram,  three  Drops ;  as  much  Syrup  of 
Rhubarb  as  will  make  it  into  Pills. 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery.      14  ^ 

7be  Powder, 

┬╗  ┬╗ 

Take  Powder  of  Crabs^Eycs,  one  Ounce; 
prepared  Pearl,  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce  ; 
white  Sugar-candy,  one  Ounce  ;  mix  thefc 
all  into  a  fine  Powder. 

^e  X)ire┬μtiQns  how  to  take  AIL 

┬╗ 

Take  as  much  of  the  Powder  as  will  lie 
on  a  Sixpence,  in  half  a  Pint  of  Afs's,  or 
Cow's  Milk,  and  Barley- Water,  every  Mor- 
ning \  take  as  much  of  the  Conferve,  as  a 
Chcfnut,  thrice  every  Day,  and  drink  after 
it  fbme  of  the  Milk-Water,  fweeten'd  with 
the  Balfamick  Syrup  j  take  three  of  the  Pec- 
toral pills,  going  to  Reft ;  and  repeat  the 
Dofe,  if  your  Cough  difturbs  your  Reft  ; 
and  once  a  Week  take  four  of  the  Purging 
Pills  at  Night ;  make  ah  Iffue  in  the  Arm  ; 
and  once  in  a  Month,  or  fix  Weeks,  take 
three  or  four  Ounces  of  Blood  away. 

This  is  fo  fafe  and  valuable  a  Method, 
that  I  fliall  only  fay,  that  every  good  Judg- 
ment muft  approve  it ;  and  it  was  as  highly 
recommended  to  me,  as,  on  Experience,  I 
fold  it  dcferv'd  to  be. 


0^3  An 


1^6     A  ColkSthn  of  Receipts 

An  Excellent  andApprwd  Procefs  for 
the  Eyes,  if  the  Rheum  he  violent^ 
and  they  bane  Specks. 

TAKE  Hemlock^  two  Ounces  j  ppun4 
it  in  a  Wooden  Bowl^  and  add  one  Thim- 
ble full  of  BaY*falt,  and  as  much  Bole-Armo* 
niack,  as  wiU  ferve  to  fpread  it  on  a  thick 
Gloth^  lay  it  to  the  Wrift,  and  renew  it  every 
twelve  Hours,  as  lor^g  as  you  have  Occafion : 
If  but  one  Eye  is  aifeded,  lay  it  to  the  con- 
trary Wrift. 

Rcd-Rofe  Water,  one  Ounce  j  Tutty,  and 

white  Sugar,  finely  powder'd,  of  each  one 
Ounce  i  fliake  tl^em  well,  and  let  it  fettle, 
and  waih  your  Eye  with  a  fine  Rag,  three 
or  four  times  a  Day^ 

A  moft  excellent  Salve  for  the  fame 
iPuirpoJe  5  which  nvill  do  without 
the  other ^  when  the  Rheum  is  not  fa 
violent. 

TA  K  E  of  the  beft  Sallad-Oil,  one  Pbund ; 
Yellow  Wax,  twelve  Ounces ;  put^tbem 
on  the  Fire  in  a  new  Pipkin,  ftirring  the  Wax 
'till  'tis  melted;  then  add  white  Lead,  half  a 
Pound  ;  and  let  it  boil  half  an  Hour  ;  then 
put  in  Myrrbjj  finely  powder'd,    Olibanum, 

Maftick| 


^    ^ 


in  Phylfick  and  Sirigeryl     i&47 

Maftick,  of  each  two  Ounces  ;  Camphire, 
one  Ounce  j  each┬τof  theoi  by  theoifelyes,  in 
the  Order  herd  likmM,  ftirhrig  and  mixing 
them  weD,  before  you  put  in  the  other  ;  let 
aB  boil  foftlf,  'till  'tis  blackifii ;  ydu  roiift  ftir 
it  all  the  time  'tis  oil  the  Firb,  and  alio  after 
'tis  taken  ofi^  'till  it  be  cold  <ti6u^h  to  mak^e 
into  Rolls,  working  it  like  D6i%h  :  Til% 
great  Care  in  the  well  mixing,  and  that  it;  be 
not  over  or  under  boil'd ;  'tis  to  be  apply'd  to 
the  Temples,  and  behind  the  Ears,  for  the 
Eyes,  to  li^  there  'till  it  grows  moift,  and 
fails  off  It  will  keep  a  lonf;  twxty  tnd  ii  a 
fweet  and  clean  Fiaifier  ;  a  moflr  adtiiiraf>le 
DiiTolvent,  and  therefore  good  for  SwclUngt, 
as  alfo  for  Cuts,  and  cures  almou  ady  SofSP 
that  does  not  need  much  dra^iig.     , 


.  1  ^  .. 

Th?fe Receipts  coft a Geft tinman fifeeia 
hundred  Pounds^  who  had  them  of  a  JefuU, 
who  came  from  Rofne^  to  cure  his  Daughter^ 
Eyes  ;  and  they  have  been  often  try'd  with 
great  Succcfs  :  Value  thefe  as  choice  Re- 
ceipts. 

The  Sum  is  fa  confiderable,  that  I  ihould 
not  have  mention'd  it,  if  I  had  not  receiv'd  it 
thus,  Word  for  Word,  from  a  moft  generous 
Contributor,  whofc  Veracity  and  Goodflefs 
make  it  perfedly  unqueftionable. 

CL4  έΑλ     S^a 


jj^i     ACoJk^ion  <f  Receipts 


To  dravo  out  a  Thorn. 

TAKE  a  little  black  Soap,  and  chew 
fome  Nut<-kernel8y  to  mix  with  the 
Soap  i  and  lay  it  on  to  the  Place  griey'd  ^ 
itpeat  it  ^till  the  Thorn  comes  out. 

For  the  Canken 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Honey  j 
the  Quantity  of  a  Wallnut,  of  Allum 
beat  fine  ;  take  Woodbine  Leaves,  Colum- 
bine Leaves,  Briar  Leaves,  and  Red  Sage^ 
Sorrel  and*  Violet  Leaves,  of  each  one  Hand- 
ful ;  two  or  three  Sprigs  of  Rue  ;  ftamp  all 
the  Leaves ;  ftrsun  the  Juice,  and  boil  it  with 
the  Honey  and  Allum  ;  j(cum  it  clean,  and 
wafli  the  Mouth  often  with  it. 

To  draw  an  Impofthume  out  of  the  Ear. 

nPAKE  Camomile,  and  burn  it  between 
*     two  Tiles,  and  put  it  in  a  Cloth  ;  apply 
it  as  hot  to  the  Ear,  as  it  can  be  fuffer'd  ; 
repeat  it  'till  you  find  Eafe. 

^Medicine 


in  Phyiick  and  Surgery.      249 
A  Medicine  for  the  Jaundice- 

T^AKE  Two-penny-worth  of  SaflEron, 
-^  finely  powdered  ;  twice  the  Weight*  in 
Turmericfc,  finely  powder'd  ;  a  Nutmeg 
grated  ;  as  much  powder'd  Egg-fliell  as  will 
lip  on  half  a  Crown  ;  an  Ounce  and  half  x)f 
Sugar  finely  powdered  and  fifted  ;  mix  all 
thefe  Powders  together,  and  divide  them 
intp  three  Parts  ;  and  take  one  Part  in  nine 
Spoonfuls  of  White-wine,  in  the  Morning, 
falling  4  faft  two  Hours  after  it  j  do  this  for 
three  Mornings. 

Another  for  the  fame^  that  is  recom^ 
mended  as  never^failing.    έΑλ 

np  AKE  Cellandine,  and  Yarrow,  of  each 
έΑλ*^  one  Handful  J  twenty  Earth-worms, 
fcour'd  in  Afties  ;  pound  all  together  in  a 
Stone  Mortar  j  put  to  them  a  Pint  of  Ale  or 
Whitcf-wine ;  ftir  all  together  well ;  then 
ftrain  it,  and  let  it  boil  foftly,  and  put  to  it 
two  Spoonfuls  of  the  Powder  of  Harts-horn ; 
as  much  Saffron,  frelh  dry'd  and  powder'd, 
as  will  lie  on  half  a  Crown  ;  the  Patient 
muft  drinfc  nine  Spoonfuls  of  it  Morning  and 
Evei^ing,  being  firfl  warm'd  j  do  this  for 
three  Days.  This  Medicine  is  not  pleafant, 
nor  do  I  find  one  that  is,  except  Steel  Wine^ 
or  Water,  which,  I  think,  is  allowed  infal- 
lible. ' 

Avery 


f 


1)6      A  ColMhn  (f  ReέΓυeipt$ 

A  'very  good  Drink  for  a  Confurtiptivc 

Cough. 

TAKE  Cbmfrcy,  and  Marfli-mallow* 
roots,  of  each  three  Ounces  ;  let  them 
be  firft  well  dry'd ;  Scorzoner^  and  Orange- 
root  candy'd,  of  each  two  Ounces  ;  cut  all 
thefc  very  finall ;  mix  them  well  together  ; 
then  divide  them  into  feveral  Farts  ;  that  is, 
an  Ounce  In  each  Paper  ;  take  a  Quart  of 
Spring  Water,  and  put  in  one  Ounce  of  thcfe 
Ingredients ;  let  it  boil  gently ;  then  add  a 
Pint  of  Milk,  and  let  all  boil  gently,  -till  it 
comes  to  a  Quart  j  when  'tis  cool,  drink  half; 
do  this  twice  a  Day  for  fome  Time. 

For  a  Pleuritick  Cough,  or  ^ain  in 

the  Side. 

TAKE  two  Ounces  of  Oil  of  Turnip-feed, 
new  drawn;  the  Syrups  of  LeiAons  and 
Maiden*hair)  each  half  an  Ounce  j  of  Syrup 
of  Violets,  one  Ounce  ;  beat  all  thele  with 
one  Ounc┬τ  of  Sugar-candy  ;  take  a  Spoonful 
as  ofcen  as  yOu  can,  and  be  fure  you  mix  it 
well  when  you  take  it,  being  apt  to  feparate. 
Note^  Thai  Oil  of  Turnips,  in  any  malig- 
nant Cafe,  exceeds  all  other  Oils  that  can  be 
drawn  \  and  can  always  be  had. 


In 


i 


f  in  Phy fkk  and  Surgery.      1  y  f 

In  a  ftrong  Fit  of  thi  Afthma. 

^AKE  three  Ounces  of  Linfeed  Oil^ 
:^  cold  drawn  J  one  Ounce  of  the  Syrup  of 
Balfani  of  Tolu,  fbook  well  together  ;  drink 
all)  or  as  much  of  this  as  you  can,  fafting  ; 
^twtU  cauie  a  little  Voniit,  and  perhaps  a 
Stool ;  but  has  often  relievM,  when  Squils 
and  Bleeding  have  faird  ;  tho'  Squils  in 
Extremity  are  almoft  a  Specifick  for  that 
Piftempen 

Lozenges  for  the  Heart-burn. 

TAKE  calcin'd  Oyfter-flhells,  as  found 
on  the  Sea-coaft  j  let  them  be  fo  well 
walh'd  by  Time,  as  to  be  as  white  within 
and  without,  as  Mother  of  Pearl  ;  dry  them 
well  by  the  Fire,  and  let  them  be  beat,  and 
lifted  as  fine  as  ^tis  poffible ;  with  half  a 
Pound  of  this  Powder,  mix  half  a  Pound  of 
Sugar  well  beat  and  lifted  ;  wet  this  with 
a  Spoonful  or  two  of  Milk  and  Water,  to 
make  it  a  very  ftifFPafte  ;  then  mould  them  i 
into  Lozenges  neatly,  and  bake  them  very 
dry,  in  an  Oveii  that  is. not  too  hot,  for  fear 
of  difcolouring  them ;  they  do  beft  when 
every  thing  is  drawn  :  This  does  ib  effcftu- 
ally  fweeten  that  four  Humour  in  the  Sto- 
mach, that  caufes  ^  this  Diftemper,  that  it 
not   only  prevents  it,  but  helps  Digeftion, 

and 


zyL     ACoUeHion  of  Receipts 

and  iecures  you  from  all  the  ill  Effeds  tbar 
arc  the  Confequences  of  it ;  and  it  was  re-- 
commended  on  the  Experience  of  a  very 
wcHTtby  Gentleman,  who  had  fuffer'd  ex- 
tremdy,  'till  this  Specifick  was  difcover'd  r 
And  indeed  this  Medicine  may  be  reafon- 
ably  fuppos'd  to  work  the  Cure  ^tis  pre- 
icrib'd  for  ;  if  we  will  be  at  the  Fains  to 
try  its  immediate  Power  over  the  iharpcii: 
Vinegv^ 

A  Towdct  for  the  Worra-Fcvcr  in 

Children. 

'T'AKE    Crabs-Eyes,  and  Corralinc,  of 
-^    each  two  Drams  j    Creain  of  Tartar^ 
one  Dram  ;  make  all  into  a  very  fine  Pow- 
der, and  give  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a  Six- 
pence, three  times  a  Day,  in  a  Spoonful  of 
Milk- Water,  and  drink  two  or  three  Spoon- 
fuls after  it ;  if  this  does  not  keep  it  from 
being  coftive,  give  fometimes    a  Glider  of 
Milk  and  Sugar  ;  and  if  the  Weaknefs  con- 
tinues. Rhubarb  fteep'd  in  fmall  Beer,  drank 
conftantly  for  three  Weeks  or  a  Month,  will 
certainly  effed  a  perfed  Cure,  and  flrengthen 
as  well  as  fwceten  the  Blood  :  This  Powder 
mull  he  taken  at  the  Full  and  Change  of  the 
Moon┬╗ 


fh 


h  PhyHck  and  Surgery,     25 1 


The  Milk-Water^  proper  to'  take  mtb 

the  Powder, 

TAKE  Shell-Snails  bruis'd,  one  Quart  ; 
Earth-worms,  one  Pint ;  Ale-hoof, 
Betony,  Penny-royal,  Sage,  Mint,  Scabious, 
of  each  one  Handful ;  Comfrey  Leaves  and 
Hoots,  two  Handfuls  j  Foxfem-roots,  two 
Handfiils  ;  fix  Whites  of  Eggs  ;  a  Gallon  of 
Kew  Milk  ;  a  Quart  of  Canary  :  Bruife  the 
Herbs,  flice  the  Roots,  and  diftil  all  in  a 
cold  Still }  fweeten  it  with  Sugar-candy┬τ 


A  good  Drink  in  the  Rickets. 


T 


A  K  E  Currants,  and  Raifins  of  the  Sun 
fton'd,  of  each  one  Handful ;  Maiden- 
hair, Yarrow,  and  Speedwell,  of  each  one 
Handful ;  a  large  Handful  of  Liver-wort  j  a 
Handful  of  Dragons  Leaves  ;  nine  Leaves 
of  Harts-  tongue ;  a  Spoonful  of  Anifeeds, 
and  an  Ounce  of  Liquorice  flic'd  ;  boil  all 
thefe  in  three  Quarts  of  fmall  Ale,  'till  half 
be  confum'd  ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  put  it  in 
little  Bottles,  and  drink  a  Draught  of  it  every 
Morning,  and  at  four  in  the  Afternoon. 


Anoihtr 


254     ACoUeSion  of  lUceipts 
Another  for  the  Rickets. 

TAKE  of  French  Barley,  one  Ounce  ^ 
Buds  of  Fern,  two  Ounces ;  of  the 
Leaves  of  Agrimony,  Liver-wort,  Harts- 
tongue,'  Betony,  Maiden-hair,  of  each  of 
thefe  half  a  Handful  j  Raifins  of  the  Sun 
fton'd,  one  Hatxs^ful ;  eight  Figs ;  Liquorice 
flic'd,  half  an  O^ince  ;  Anifeeds  bruis'd,  one 
Ounce  :  Boil  thefe  in  three  Pints  of  Spring 
Water,  'till  a  third  be  wafted  ;  ftrain  it,  and 
mix  with  it  an  Ounce  and  half  of  Sugars- 
candy,  and  ten  Drops  of  Spirit  of  Sulphur  : 
This  Medicine  feldom  fails,  if  you  give  four 

Spoonfuls  twice  a  Day. 

* 

An  admirable  Method  for  Convulfioa 

Fits. 

έΑλ 

TPAKE  Onions,  and  black  Pepper,  of 
-'έΑλ  each  a  like  Quantity ;  ftamp  both  pret- 
.  ty  ffnall,  and  lay  it  to  the  Soles  of  the  Feet ; 
keep  it  on  fcven  Hours  ;  while  the  Party  is 
in  the  Fit,  fqrce  them  not  to  take  any  thing, 
bwt  andnt  the  Wrifts,  the  Palms  of  the 
Hands,  and  the  Temples  with  Mithridate, 
if  ^tis  a. Child  ;  and  Spirit  of  Amber,  if  a 
Man  or  Woman  :  Between  the  Fits,  give 
Black  Cherry- Water,  fwecten'd  with  Syrup 
of  Male-Piony,  and  Syrup  of  Clove  July- 
flowers  J  and  for  a  Week  after  the  Fit,  give 

this 


mPkyiick  4┬╗i  Surgery,     i^%  / 

this  cofiftandy  twice  a  Day  ;  let  it  wear  a 
ISlecUace  of  Male  ?iony┬τioot  about  the 
Neck. 

Another  for  Convulfiojis* 

GIVE  the  Chad  five  or  fix  Drops   of 
King's  Drops,  or  Spirit  of  Harts-horn, 
in  two  SpoonfUla  of  Black-Cherry  Water, 
fweetea'd  with  Syrup  of  Male^Piony  j   re- 
peat this  wheiiever  you  fee  it  coming,  and 
twice    in   a   Day,    before   and  a&er   every 
Chan^  of  the  Moon  ;  purge  the  Child  once 
in  ten  Days,  or  a  Fortnight^  with  a  Spoon- 
ful or  two  of  Syrup  of  Rhubarb,  or  with 
'  Manna,  after  this  Method  ;  take  an  Ounce 
of  Manna,    diflblve  it    in  '  four  Ounces    of 
Barley* Water  ;  ftrain  It,  and  give  the  Child 
two  Spoonfuls  at  a  time,  every  third  Hour, 
'till  it  begins  to  work  ;    then  defifl,  and 
give  thin  Chicken-Broth,  or   Water-Gruel, 
in  the  working  ;  the  Child  may  purge  thus, 
before  the  Drops  are  given ;  if  the  Child 
ftart,  or  grow  pale,  that  you  apprehend  a 
Fit,  lay  a  Blifter  behind  and  below  the  Ear, 
and  give  it  a  Glifter  of  Milk  and  Sugar, 
with  a  very  few  Camomile  Leaves,  and  Ani-^ 
feeds,  and  put  as  big  as  a  fmaU  Nutmeg  of 
Diafcordium,  into  the  Glifter ;  then  At^in 
and  give  it ;  when  you  purge  with  the  Maui- 
na,  add  to  it  one  Ounce  of  Oil  of  fweet  Al- 
monds, newly  drawn,  which  be  fure  to  mix 

well 

3- 


1 

15^    ^  CoJkHion  of  Receipts 

well  with  the  Barley-Water  and  Manna,  that 
it  may  work  off  ibiootbly^  and  take  off  aU 
Gripmgs. 

An  admrahle  Powder  for   any  Sore 
Mouth,  Thtufli,  or  Canker. 

TAKE  of  Red  Sage,  Red  Fennel,  Plan- 
tain, Woodbine,  and  Rue,  of  each  one 
Handful ;  and  of  Allum,  four  Ounces  j  ihred 
the  Herbs,  and  beat  the  Allum  ^  then  heat 
all  in  a  clean  Shovel ;  keep  them  continually 
fhrring ;    and    when    they   are    very   well 
mix'd,  and  feem  quite  dry  from  all  Juice, 
fpread  them  to  cool ;  and  when  they  are 
cold,    beat  them  to  a  very  fine  Powder, 
which  you  muft  ^ft ;  you  may  ufe  it  dry, 
or  mix  it  with  Honey.    'Tis  recommended 
as    infallible^    to    cue   any  Sort   of  Sore 
Mouth. 

Jl    moft  Incomparable  Salve,  to  Ireak 
tf┬╗y  Swelling,  and  heal  it -^  and  good 
for  a  Burn. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Sallad  Oil, 
or,  for  Want  of  it,  as  much  unfaltcd 
Butter  ;  five  Ounces  of  the  beft  Turpentine, 
fix  Ounces  of  Honey,  three  Ounces  of 
Bees-wax,  two  Ounces  of  Rofin  ;  put  the 
Turpentine,     Rofin,     and    Bees-wax,    and 

Honey, 


T 


#d  Phyficic  ^┬╗^  Surgery,     i^f 

Money,  into  a  new  Pipkin^  ^hd  let  them  fifti-^ 
iher  together^  'till  all  be  melted;  then  put- 
in  your  Oily  and  let  all  bdil  togethei'  ik  little 
^hile  foftly  ;  then  ptit  it  into  ?6ts  for  Ufe. 

This  was  fent  as  a  very  choice  ncfceflary 
Salve  for  all  Families,  and  almoft  for  aU 
Ufes  :  And  indeed  I  have  feen  alflioft  a  mi- 
raculous Cure  on  a  very  bad  Breaft  b^  thii 
alone ;  and  therefore  am  obliged  to  do  it  this 
Jufticc. 

For  Sore  Kipplcs,  6r  tCibc  Wecls. 

AKE  a  Pint  of  the  beft  Sallad  Oil  j  half 
a  Pound  of  Red  Lead,  one  Outiee  of 
Red  Sealing-wax,  and  an  Ounce  of  Rolin, 
fix  Ounces  of  Bees- wax  5  put  all  the┬μe  toge- 
ther, aiid  let  them  boil  to  a  Salve  y  as  loon  as 
ever  it  turns  blaek,  ^tis  enough  ;  theh  put  it 
out  prefently,  or  'twill  be  too  hard  :  Whent 
you  ufe  it,  you  mitft  melt  it,  and  anoint  the 
Place  griev'd,  with  your  Finger^  ipread  it  oh: 
a  Cloth^  and  keep  a  Flaiiler  on  it :  This  Ina^ 
be  very  good ;  btit  t  think  nothing  fo  effect 
tually  cures  Kibe  Heeb,  as  doinjg  them  vrith 
CamphiriisM  Spirits,  before  they  break; 

To  Camphirizc  Spirit  of  Wine. 

UT  lour  Ounces  of  Camphire  into  i> 
Quart  of  highly-rcftify 'd  Spirit  of  Wbc  j 
┬μet  it  m  the  Sub,  and  always  keep  it  clofe 
ftopp'd  'j  as  fdon  as  'tis  4ffoly'4,  'tis  fit 

R  alfooil 


P 


%^%     A  Collision  df  Receipt t 

2dmoil;  for  all  Ufes,  as  Kibes^  ChilbLains^  for 
Head-acbes,  many  Sorts  of  Sores,  that  wane 
drying  ;  thcfcfbrc  is  fbmetimcs  difiR>lv'd  iit 
good  HuQgary-Wacer :  I(  ought  always  to  be 
10  a  Family* 

A  good  Sdvcfir  SOre  I^ips  or  Nipples* 

TAKE  twb  Ounces  of  Bces^wax,  a┬╗ 
.  .  much .  gdod  Salkd  Oil ;  fet  it  over  the 
Fire^  colour  it  with  Alcany-roots  ;  when  'tis 
boird,  aad  of  a  fine  Red,  ftrain  it^  and  drop 
iaSix-penny-worth  of  Balfam  of  Peru ;  then 
pour  ftioto  the  Bottom  of  Tea  Cups^  that  it 
ttMiy  come  out  in  little  Cakes┬τ 

Jtnother  for  the  fime. 

Tp  AKE  feur  Ounces  of  freA  Beef-mar- 
έΑλ*έΑλ  row,, or  iinfaked  Butter,  throe  Ounces 
q┬μ  Virgins^wax^  Akany-rqots  half  an  Ounce^ 
a^  much  Storaxy  and.  ^  much  Gumben, 
90^  iKced^ippia^  bgilf  an  Qfince  of  I^oa^ 
fiigar,  fiK  Sp^ot^uls  of  :Gl┬╗rec^  and  four  of 
Sack^  kt  ail  Ijoil  'clJl  k  m  of  agood  Colour  ^ 
^Q  pout  it  iAt;oiGups  to  cool;  and  when  yoa 
take  them  put,  dry  the  Boiitobis  of  theCaJ&ea 
from  the  Liquid  Part* 

,.  -^/)rd;ffy  Medicine /^r  Sore  Nipples. 

I''NI*;USE  Cbiince^fecds  in  White  Rofei. 
Water,  'tin  it  is  a  Jelly  ;  ftrain  it  thro*  a 
Mufliw,  and  waih  the  Sore  JPartoiUn  with  it* 


> 


tn  Phyiicic  and  Siit]^etf,     dhj^ 


έΨι    . ┬τ. 


Jh  Ointment  for  ih  Piles, 
Smaeir^  and  TainfuL 

INFUSE  Eldfcr-flowers  in  X-infted  Oil  i 
έΑλ*  let  them  ftand  in  the  Sun  i  Moftth  j  t^f  f^i 
Arain  it,  and  take  two  Spoonfuls  of  this  Oil^ 
an  Ounce .  of  Bees-wax,  half  an  Ounce  oi 
Turpentine,  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg  ;  beat  all 
together  iti  a  Mortar  ;,  fpre^d  it  6n,a  C^otji^ 
tod  apply  it  to  the  tiles. 

y  :An6thef  fir  ihfim     ;    έΑλ  / 

A  K┬μ  an  Ounce  of  Tir ^m^'^ii^ihdi 
Ounces  of  IJhfced  0il '  hal'f  MM 
of  Cafephire,.  ind  as  totifcb  Sbefifil-diffi 
aiid  one  Draiii  of  Oil  of  Airibc^  \  ftreld  tMm 
together^  ^nd  ipread  it  on  IPIaiftersj  whfii 
yoii  are  in  Pain.,  both  thefe  are  very  good'  | 
but  the  moft  effe^al  way  to  prevent 
comihig  to  Extremity,  is,  to  keep;t&e'i 
always  open  with  Lenittte  E&┬μhiafV) 
Mower  of  firtmftone,  Sjv^  pf  Roray  erf, 
any  gentle  tooling  Medicines  f^amongrw^cii 
Number,  lie w'd  Primes,  thx>' out  gf  Fadhidni 
muft  not  be  dfefpis'd,      .     ,     .  .    ..^ 

For  an  Apople<5tick  Pain  in  the  McJtcL 

BEAT  Ground-Ivy,  and  ftrain  oitt  |be 
Juice ;  put  to  this  a  Spoonful  of J^owd$c 
of  Marum,  but  not  enough  to  thicken  the 
Juice  ;  then-  take  a  Leaf  of  Tobacco*?  ;uia 


l6  o    A  ColleSHon  of  Receipts 

έΑλwet  it  very  wet  in  this  Juice,  roll  k  up  in 
Pellets,  and  put  it  up  your  Noftrils  ;  as  faft 
as  it  hardens,  put  up  a  frefh  one ;  'twill  give 
prefent  Relief,  and  is  much  ttetter  than  ci- 
ther liquid  or  dry  SnufF. 

An  Incomparable  Medicine  for  the 
Scutvy  in  the  Teeth. 

TAKE  a  Quart  of  good  White-wine  Vine- 
gar, beat  a  Piece  of  Steel  red  hot,  and 
quench ,  it  eight  of  ten  times  in  the  Vinegar, 
as  fiift  as  you  can  heat  it  j  then  add  to  this 
Liquor  an  Ounce  of  powderM  Myrrh,  aaid 
half  an  Ounce  of  Maftick  powder'd  ;  wafli 
your  !Te?jh  twice  or  thrice  a  Day. 

A  certain  and  immediate  Curt  for  a 
-J  .    .  '  Bruifc. 

AKiEl  a.Poultis  of  Bran   and   Urine, 

apply  It  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  it  j  if 

'tis  very  bad,  repeat  it  as  It  cools,  and  do  it 

^Ibon*  as  you  can,  to  prevent  its  fweUing, 

which  the  Air  is  apt  to  occafion. 

1^0  Cure  Deafnefs  and  Noifc  in  the 

Head. 

|3Ulr  your  own  Urine  into  a  Pewter- 
έΑλ*^  Difli,  and  cover  it  with  another  ;  then 
put  fpme  Coals  under  ^  and  when  'tis  hot, 
brufti  oflF  the  clear  Vt'ater  that  hangs  on  the 

upper 


M 


in  Pbyfick .  andSut^ty.      *^  t 

upper  Difh  with  a  Feather,  and  drop  it  into 
the  Ear ;  This  has  done  great  Cures. : 

^  MoLtth-Water  to  Cure  4  Canker, 

np  AKE  of  Juiee  of  Sage  and  Honey- 
-έΨι-  Suckle,  of  each  fix  Spoonfuls ;  of  White- 
wine  Vinegar,  two  Spoonfuls  j  Roch  Allurti, 
one  Ounce  ;  take  double  the  Weight,  of  thq 
whole  in  Honey  j  boil  it  to  a  thick  Syrup  ; 
ffum  it  very  clean,  and  when  'tis  coid,  put  it 
tip  for  your  Ufe  :  This,  with  Syrup  of  Jvlul- 
berries,  is  good  for  any  fore  Mouth. 


'  t. 


T 


A  ^00^  Cere-Cloth.     ;      έΑλ    έΑλ 

AKE  a  Pint  and  half  of  Saltad^pil, 
half  aPoynd  of  Red Xead,' a  .quarter 
of  a  Pound  of  White  Lead,  a'  quarter -01  st 
Pound  ofCaftleSoap,  two  Ounces  pfBces4 
wax,  two  Ounces  of  Oil  of  Bays,  two  Ounces 
of  Barrows-greafe  ;  bqil  the  I^eads  in  έΑλthe 
pils,  'till  they  look  brown  j  then  put  in  t^ie 
reft,  keeping  it  ftirrinjg  'till  it  works  ;  then 
make  it  into  Rolls,  firft  oiling  your  Hands; 
This  ftiould  boil  five  Hoursl 

T 

A  wofi  admiraibje  Balfam,  for  mtixiard 
or  ififward  Sotes,  Fiftula's,  Ulcers, 

TA  K  E  an  equal  Quantity  of  Liniced  and 
S^llad  Oil^  to  three  Fints  of  this  put 

R  3       έΑλ  <?n? 


a4*     4  CdU^m  of  Receipts 

one  Pound  of  Ghio  TurpeoCkie^  well  waih'd 
in  Red  Rofc-Walfr^  half  a  Pound  of  Red 
Sanders,  half  an  Ounce  of  Maftick,  half  an 
Ounce  of  Cochineal,  iialf  a  Pound  of  good 
Yellovv' Bees- wax,  one  Pint  of  Spirit  of  Sack  j 
thcfe  muft  fimmer  over  a  flow  Fire,  'till 
all  ^xc  incorporated  ;  then  keep  it  clofc 
(topp'd  for  your  Uft  ;  Half  this  Quantity 
v;II  iajft  mv>y  Years. 

.  1  could  not^  in  Gratitude  to  the  Generous 
Commi^nicator,  and  |ufticc  to  the  Worlds 
omit  inferting  this  ;  becauie  it  promifes  Mi? 
racles  in  all  inward  Ulcers,  as  it  does  out-?- 
ward,  if  anointed  ;  but  a&  to  my  own  parti*- 
cular,  I  believe^  no  Balfam  that  was  evex 
made,  exceeds  that  callM  ^he  Fryar*8  Balfam^ 
in  the  firft  Part  of  this  Book,:  You  may  tai;^c 
^he  Bignefs  of  a  Nutmeg  of  this,  always 
faftingao  Hour  before  and  after. 

A  Tin(5turc  of  the  Bark, 

HTAKE  an  Ounce  of  the  fineft  Bark  you  , 
-έΨιέΑλ  can  procure,  put  it  in  large  Pieces,  tq 
fourOuncesofSpiritofSal-Armoniackj  let  it 
be  clofe  ftopp'd,  and  fct  it  in  the  Sun,  or  warm 
lumbers,  24  Hours;  then  pour  it  off  clear,  and 
keep  it  for  IJfe.  It  is  to  be  given  in  Agues, 
or  Fevers,  frorn  ten  to  forty  Drops,  accord- 
ing to  the  Age  and  Strength  of  Man,  Wpmanj^ 
or  Child,  in  V^inc  and  Water  ;  it  piuft  be 
repeated  every  four  Hours,  as  other  Dofes 
of  the  Bark.    Here  I  am  oblig -d  tp  make  a 

moft 


in  Phyfick  and  Surgery,      iSy 

moft  grateful  Acknowledgment  for  this  Re- 
ceipt, whtcb  I  take  to  be  the  fzk&  and  moil 
eff^ual  Medicine  that  was  ever  publiih'd  to 
the  World, 

\ 

A  Draught  (f  the  Salts  in  a  Fever. 

TAKE  Black  Cherry  Water,  two  Ounces  ; 
.  Compound  Piony  W*ter,  one  Ounce  \ 
?  Salt  of  Harts-horn,  one  Scriipl^  ;  Salt  o| 
Wormwood,  half  a  Dram  i  Salt  of  Ambcr> 
three  Grains  j  Spirit  of  Sulphur,  fifteen  Drops  j 
take  this  Draught  every  fix  Hours,  'till  you 
have  taken  eight  or  ten  Draughts  :  This  has 
done  very  great  Cures  without  the  Bark^ 
where  the  Fever  is  occafion'd  by  a  great  Cold ; 
it  fwcctens  and  cools  the  Blood,  and  revives 
the  Spirks  and  Head  to  Admiration* 


p 


A  verypJcafant  Poflfct  #┬╗  a  FeyέΓυn 


U  T  two  Ounces  of  Prjci^rvM  Barberriek^ 
into  one  (^uart  of  Milk  j  let  it  boil,  ajij^ 
firain  it ;  drink  when  you  are  thiffty, 

A  Milk- Water,  for  a  Hoopipg-Cough, 

TA  K  E  of  Ground-Ivy,  Rpfemary,  and 
Hyffop,  of  each  one  Handful ;  diftil 
them  in  a  Quart  of  new  Milk,  and  let  it 
drop  on  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Sugar-f 
candy  :  Take  a  Spoonful  Nig^t  and  Morn^ 
,  }ng^  and  ^  often  as  you  plc^e, 

R  4  An 


2<$4      A  ColleSiion  of  Receipts 

t 

At!  excellent  Remedy  for  a  Sof  e  Throat, 
wbicby  taken  in^uime,  wU  prevent  . 
a  Quinfcy. 

'X'  A  K  E  five  Spoonfuls  of  Syrup  of  Eldcr- 
έΑλέΨι-  berries,  and  ini;p  'with  one  Spoonful  of 
Honey,  and  as  much  Salt  Prune!  (in  Pow- 
der) as  will  Ue  on  a  Shilling  :  Take  a  Tea- 
ipoonfulof  this  as  often  as  you  can. 

Fer  Conviiinon  Fits. 

GET  a  Dozen  of  Live  Moles,  wherj 
with  young  ;  ftick  them  with  a  Knifc 
jn  the  Throat,  'till  they  are  dead ;  then  open 
them,  and  take  out  all  the  Iptraiis  ;  put 
them  in  an  Earthen  Pan,  and  by  Degrees  dry 
them  in  an  Oven,  'till  they  are  fit  to  pow- 
der }  then  powder  and  fift  them  thro'  a  fine 
JSievc ;  give  the  Child  as  much  as  will  lie  qti 
?i  Half  Crown^^  ii/ Black-Cherry  Water,  once 
in  three  Hours,  for  three  times  ;  then  every 
Night  going  to  Reft,  for  three  Times.  If 
yoa  fear  a  Return,  give  it  three  Nights  be- 
fore the  Full  and  New  of  the  Moon. 

I  dare  fay  this  is  an  approv'd  Receipt,  be- 

paufe  i  had  it  from  a  very  choice  Hand  ;  but 

j  fliould  fear  'twould  be  impoffible  to  make  a 

έΑλyoung  Child  take  fo  much  of  lb  loathfpme  b, 

.T^1R┬π  P  |J?┬╗  ?9Y^'^"  f┬╗"ft  ^?^<3s  be. 


V  '     X 


έΑλJ      I 

I 


in  VhyCick  and  Sutgetyl      t6j 

5.  έΑλ 

Another  for  the  fame. 

TAKE  half  a  Pound  of  the  Roots  of 
fingle   Piony,    flicc  them   thin,    four 
Dunces  of  Gentian-Root  flic'd  thin,  a  Peck 
pf  Juniper  Berries   bruis'd,   Cummin-lceds, 
Coriander- feeds,    Carraway-feed,   Pine-feed, 
'Grommile-feed,  of  each  two  Ounces  bruised, 
Sage,    Pimpernel  Roots,    Rue,    Rofcmary, 
Balm,  of  each  twoHandfuls,  a  good  Quantity 
┬σf  Clove  July-flowers,  Lily  of  the  Valley, 
Sage-flowers,  if  they  can  be  got,  Rofemary- 
.flowers  you  may  always  keep  dry  ;  add    a 
Hapdful  of  each  of  thcfe  j  Cloyes,  Ginger, 
Nutniegs,    Gallingal,    Cardimums,    Cubeb^, 
of  ^┬τ.ach  two  Drams,  bruife  them  ;  then  take 
a  Handful  of  dry'd  Eietony-rflowers, .  half  a 
Handful  of  Egrimoriy,  chop  all  thefe  Herbs, 
.  aqd  pi)(  them  in  to  fl:eep  in  three  Gallons  of 
Ale,  not  foo  new  ;  let  it  li^  one  Night  or 
better  in  Steep  j  then  diftil  it,  and  draw  it 
.4own  pretty  low,  fo  mingle  fmall  and  ftrong 
together  ;  if  it   be  too  ftrong  fpr  a  little 
Child,  put  to  a  Spoonful  of  this  Water  one 
Spoonful  of  Black-Cherjry  Water* 

A  Salvp  foif  a  l^uptprc, 

έΑλ 

ME L T  a  Pound   of  Decr-fuet,  and  put 
to  it  a  Handful  of  Solompn-ieal,    as 
much  Comfrey-roots,  and  as  njuch  Moufe- 

ear, 


%66      A  Colleiittm  <f  Receipts 

car,  ftamp  all  the  Herbs  and  Roots  ;  ftraia 
and  boil  them  Mrith  the  Suet ;  when  'tis  well 
mix'd,  andconfum'd  to  half  of  the  Quantity^ 
theii  add  four  Ounces  of  Adders-ipear,  and^ 
'  an  Ounce  of  fine  Bole- Armoniacky  wellpow^ 
dex'd  and  lifted  ;  mix  all,  and  keep  it  for 
Ufe  :  Whea  you  lay  it  on  the  Part,  bind  it 
hard  For  a  Rupture  in  the  Throat,  lie  air- 
ways in  a  Neckcloth  tied  hard. 

An  excellent  Way  to  make  the  Purging 

Syrup  0/ Roles. 

TAKE  Damask-Roies,  before  they  aft 
full  blown,  cut  oflF  the  White,  then 
pour  upon  them  two  Quarts  of  Succory 
Water  boiling .;  let  this  infuie  in  the  Embers 
an  Hour  j  then  firain  it  very  dry^  and  pour 
that  Liquor  upon  as  many  more  Roies,  ib 
ctit,  as  it  will  coyer  ;  let  this  infiiie  as  be┬τ 
fore  ;  then  ftrain  it,  and  to  every  Pint  of 
this  Liquor,  put  near  two  Pounds  of  Sugar  ; 
'tis  the  beft  Purging  Syrup,  for  almoil  all 
yfcs,  that  is  made.  ^ 

A  very  good  Elcduary  for  an  Afthma; 

AKE  four  Cloves  of  Garlick,  roaft 

them  'till  they  are  ibft ;  then  bruife 

out  the  Pulp,  md  put  it  into  fix  Spoonfuls 

of  Honey,  two  Spoonfuls  of  the  Powder  of 

Elecampane ;   of  Liquorice,  Anifccds,  arfd 

Gorif 


T 


┬τ 

h  Phylick  and  Surgery.     x6t 

G>riander-feeds,  all  finely  powder'd  and 
fifted,  oqe^poQnfol  ┬τnd  a  hialf;  mix  all  well 
Itpgcther,  and  take  the  Biga?(S  of  a  Nutmeg 
Morning  and  Night. 

ji  mofi  Incomparahk  Steel  Eledluary^ 

TAKE  two  Ounces  of  Confervc  of 
Brook-lime,  Confervc  of  Water- creffes^ 
and  Scurvy-grafs,^  each  twp  Ounces  ;  tho 
yellow  Rind  of  a  Sevilk  Orange  grated,  two 
large  Nutnjcgs  grated,  and  an  Ounce  of 
Prepared  StCi?l  j  mix  up  all  with  Syrup  of 
Poppies,  and  take  the  Bignefi  of  a  Wal- 
nut in  the  Morning,  and  at  five  in  thp 
Afternppn^ 

┬╗ 

A  Utttr  Tlnflure  for  a  Pain  i┬╗  tht 

Scomich. 


T 


A  K  E  a  Handful  of  Roman  Worm- 
wood, as  much  Ground-Ivy,  two 
Drams  of  Gentian,  one  Dram  of  Gallingalfp 
toot,  four  Ouncea  of  the  thin  Yellow  Rind  of 
Oranges,  one  Draip  of  Cardimum?  the  lels. 
Saffron  one  Dram,  Gochin,eal  one  pram  5 
infufe  all  thefe  in  one  Quart  of  Brandy,  fc| 
them  in  the  Sun,  or  in  warm -Embers,  'till 
'tis  well  tindurM  ;  ftrain  it,  and  take, one 
Spoonful  in  a  Glafs  of  any  \Yine  :  'Tis  an  in- 
comparable }3itter. 


26Z     A  ColUSiion  of  Receipts- 

<έΨι .  ,   έΨιέΨι '  . 

ji  Medicine  for  any  one  that  has  hen 

lit  by  a  Mad  IDog. 

TAKE  a  Handful  of  the  Herb  call'd 
Ladies  Bed-ftraw,  bruiie  it  in  a  Mortar  ; 
then  roll  up  the  Leaf  and  Juice,  with  a  Lump 
of  Butter,  and  make  the  Party  fwallow  it. 
'Tis  fent  me  as  ah  immediate  Cure  for  Man 
or  Beafl. 

ji  'very  good  Way  to  prevent  the  Nail 
growing  into  the  Toe. . 

IF  the  Nail  of  your  Toe  be  hard,  and  apt 
to  grow  round,  and  into  the  Corners  of  | 

"^-  your  Toe,  take  a  Piece  of  broken  Glafs  and 
fcrapc  the  Top  very  thin,  do  this  when*. 
N  ever  you  cut  your  Nails,  and  by  conftant 
Ufe,  it  makes  the  Corners  fly  up,  and  grow 
fiat ;  fo^  that  'tis  impoflibie  they  IJioi^d^give 
you  any  Pain, 

To  make  the .  Hair  grow  tbich 

npAKE  Rofemary,  Maiden-hair,  Sou- 
'  *  thern-wood,  Myrtle-Berries,  Hazel- 
Bark,  of  each  two  Ounces  ;  burn  thefc  to 
Aflies  on  a  clean  Hearth,  or  in  an  Dyen  ; 
put  thefc  Alhes  in  White-wine,  to  mak^  a 
llrong  lijc^  and  w^fli  thp  Hair  d^Uy'  a^ 


in  Phyfick  and  Swgtty.      26 p 

the  Root  ;  keep  it  cut  pretty  fliort  :  It  kiHs 
the  Worm  which  is  at  the  Root,  and  is 
more  effectual  than  Bears  Greafe,  or  any 
Sort  of  Pomatum,  which  rather  feeds  than 
deftrbys  that  Enemy  to  the  Hair. 

r 

A  Salve  for  a  Burn  or  Seald,  whicb 
will  effedually  take  out  the  Fire. 

TAKE  aPint  of  Sallad  Oil,  half  a 
Pound  of  White-Lead,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  Pound  of  Virgins  Wax ;  boil  all  to- 
gether ibftly,  'till  it  looks  of  a  dark  brown 
Colour,  then  roll  it  into  Rolls. 

┬τ 

jin  excellent  Way  to   make   the  Salve 
έΑλ  Gratia  Deiy  which  is  to  he  made  about 
Midfummer.  \ 

T^AKE  Vervain,  Betony,  and  Pimper- 
^  nel,  of  each  one.  Handful;  ftamp  them 
and  boil  them  in  three  Q^iarts  of  VVhite- 
wine,  'till  half  be  confum'd  ;  then  ftrain  it 
thro'  a  Linen  Cloth,  and  fct  it  over  the  Fire 
again  ;  put  to  it  one  Pound  of  the  beft  Ro- 
fin,  well  beaten,  four  Ounces  of  Virgins 
Wax,  or  Yellow  Wax,  diifolv'd  in  Woman's 
Milk,  and  one  Ounce  of  Maftick  well  pow- 
der'd  ;  boil  all  in  the  Wine,  'till  it  be  melt-^ 
ed,   ftirring   well  and   faft  j    then   take  It 

*  from 


I 


l7o     A  Coik^ion  of  keieipH 

irom  the  Tire^  and  pot  to  it  a  Found  of 
Turpentine,  fiirring  it  'till  it  be  cold  ;  theri 
the  Salve  will  rife  aboye  the  reft,  which 
you  muft  take  out,  and  labour  with  y6ur 
Hauds^  as  Shoemakers  do  their  Wax,  and 
you  may  maJce  it  in  Rolls,  or  keep  it  all.^ 
together  In  a  Fan.  This  wa!i  omitted  in 
,  the  firft  Fart ;  but  is  feht  like  again  ^roiii 
the  fame  charitable  Family,  on  whoie  re- 
peated Experience,  t  date  fet  dowfl  fome 
of  its  many  Yirtued  :  ^Tis  good  for  all 
Sorts  of  Wounds,  titw  and  old  }  it  cleanfe^ 
iind  heals  ;  eateth  off  Dead  Flefli,  and  ge-^ 
iierateth  New  y  it  mollifies  Boils,  draws 
out  Thorns^  breaks  Impofthumes ;  is  good 
in  the  CaAker,  and  d  Fiftula,  Bruiies  oA 
the  Sinews,  Si.  jintbny'^  Fire,  and  it.ai^ 
fuageth  Swellings.        ^ 

Jn  Ointment  for  Su  AtitonyV 

Ftre, 

GATHER  Elder-flowete  in  the  Springy 
and  fill  a  Bottle  as  full  as  it  can  hold  $ 
then  wet  them  with  Linfced  Oil,  and  ftt 
them  in,  the  Sun  ;  prefs  out  this  very  hard^ 
and  put  to  lour  Ounces  of  this,  half  a  Dram 
of  Saffron,  an  Ounce  of  foft  Soap,  and  boil 
it  to  aw  Ointment ;  juft  before  you  take  it 
off  the  Fire,  ftir  in  an  Ounce  of  Cerufc  j 

whea 


in  Pkyfick  and  Sufgcry.    i^^t 

^hen  you  ufe  it^  make  it  Warm,  and  anoinC 
the  Place  ;  dip  foft  Paper  in  the  Qintinont, 
atid  cover  it  when  you  drcfs  it,  which,  muft 
be  twice  a  Day  j  wafli  it  with  Spirit  o┬μ 
Wine,  in  which  a  litde  Fernet:  ^Treacle  ha^ 
been  mix'd.  .      ' 

yi  make  MxtraSi  of  hmh&t^        > 

'T^AKE  two  Drams  of  good  Amber'-i 
^  greafe,  as  much  Sugar-candy,  twelve 
Grains  of  Musk,  and  fix  Grains  of  Civet  ; 
beat  all  fmall  together,  and  put  this  Mixture 
into  a  Bottle  that  has  a  Glais  Stopper ;  psn^t 
upon  thefe  Ingredients  four  Ounces  of  high- 
ly RcftifyM  Spirit  of  Wine  ;  fet  it  in  warm 
Embers  for  twenty- four  Hours  j  while  'tis 
warm,  feparatc  the  Clear  from  the  Drofi  J 
This  ┬μxtra┬μk  is  much  better  for  all  Sorts  ojf 
Ufe,  than  Amberg*eafe ;  five  ot  fix  Drops 
in  any  Thing  ^ve  a  moft  noble  jfcrfume  5 
half  this  Quantity  will  laft  a  great  many 
Years ;  but  '(&  jitt>pcr  In  all  Familiei  di- 
ftant  front  Z(W|yfo*,  Mcaufe  oftttt  p^rib'd 
in  Cordials.         '^     ,      [      ,.:[;;έΨι 

To  make  a  Sweet  Water. 

nn  A  K  E  half  a  Bulhcl  of  Damask-Roics, 

"έΨι-    not   over-blown,  pick   them  into    a 

bffOtd  Pan,  and  put  in  two  good  Handfuls 

of 


a^H&iScf  iSkfiigtwice  or 


<=^- 


-*."H' -έΑλ-.*.       -*.  *  ^ 


:*:  :    t-  .  έΨι^έΨι 

3,:         *     **  έΨι 


:*: 


llNDEX. 


t  , 


m 


'>┬╗U.    .s.s. 


;,I;llfiil'-2: 


vsZ^'S. 


\^┬╗    I  N  D  E  X, 

'^  mop  excelknt  Frocefs  in  'a  G 

έΑλ    Confumprion             244  ^  good  Grzvyy  to  keep  reoify 

IVprtheCmkcT                248  firanyUfe                   197 

\/i  very  good  Drink  for  a  Con-^  To  make  good  Ginger-brea(f> 

fumptive-Cqugh         ajo  vsithout  Butter           23a 

Tor  a  Vieureiick  Cough,  or  Far /Ae  Gravel                239 

.  Fain  in  the  ^r-        *i^  H 

^  admirabli. Method   f&r  ^  t  j 

'Cpnyulfioaf^itS;  2^4   TbrnakeaciUHzSi^ofSalad 

Another  for  (joRvySiSon&z^'i        Magundy  ^04 

STtf  Camphiriae  Sfirit  of  Wine   An  excellent  Meptt  of  Hog's 

257       Head  2o(S 

/f  Mmtb^^ater  to  cure  a   hozonges  for  the  Heart-hurn 

Caiket/  ',      \  '       2iSi  z'ix 

'A good Otr^<[o'A\       .   ibid.   To  make  the  Uak  gro^  thick 

A  Mlkwaterfor  iiWhooping  268 

Cough  2^5  I 

Far  Convulfion  Fits         264   Jcing  for  Tart f  231 

Another  for  the  fame       .26  J    ibyriiau  <?┬╗  Impofthuoie  o┬τ^ 

if  the  Ear  248 

^  >^  Medicine  for  the  Jaundice 

Kari  Dumplins  215  249 

foraJ>TO^ry'  241   A  never^faiUng  one  for  the 

TocureDesilDidhaMdNoifein      fame  ibid, 

the  Head  z6o  L 

E  For  a  Loofenels  d┬╗rf  B/wJji 

irara^J?Eek  .       200      Jf*^         ^^  ^ 

V*2f  excellent  Purging  Elixir  - 

242   ^nincomparableWaytomdke 

'^n  affroi^d  Frocejs  for  the       Muftard  21Q 

"/^       Eyes  248  ibi^wMuflirooms,  *iui/iw^ 

A  moft  excellent  Salve  for  the       Fickle^  for  Sauce         211 

Eyes  ibid.   To'makeMsaikttoom      2i< 

'^   mo^  incomparable  Steel  j>  ┬τwrie  redj^uince  MarnasH 

Eledbary  ^^  .    hde/*┬╗Jei^  .  221 

P  Ta  ┬τi4^a  Marbialade  of}^ 

Apricots  224 

French  Bread.  215   TomakeMmashiicofOr^nj^ 

A  Draught  of  the  Salts  in  ^      floiuers  &id. 

Fever  7,6^   A  Medicine  for  any  one  that 

\^  verypleafant  Foffet  in  a       has  hen  infbj aUsdyDpR  y 

fev^  ibi^.  '  26a| 

N  F┬τ^ 


i 

1 


Jin    l  N  D  E  X. 

N  To  Preferve  red  and  njjhlte 

roTSore  Nipples,   or  Kibe  ^^^^^^^^^^^  ^^^^^^        |f/ 

Nipples     ^             ^^8  r.  Preferve <jrc^.┬τ^70r^g. 

AZtUffar  the  fame     ibid.  ^  ^^  ^/┬τ^^^  ^f  ^r  ^    -f  7 

^    ^'έΑλ'^v.i^  To  make  a  pretty  Sot^  of  ^^ 

A  retty  Medictne  for  Sore  ^^^^^     /          ./ ^^g 

Nipples        >             ibic┬╗.  7^y^,,,jj^^^^^^,;,Paftya55     . 

P           ,  Pafte/ar  /^^  Pafty         2,30 

To  xM^^Piumb-porridge  193  An  admlrahk  Medidne  pr 

rarfltf/Pike^r  Mackerel  198  /^e  Piles                     236 

30?  ┬τp<ii^e  49(  Pafty  rf  Beef  or  Lozenges  for  the  Piles,  as    \r 

Mutton  as  good  0S  Venifon  ufedin  theW.  Indies  ibid. 

201  An  admirable  Powder  for 

A  Shrimp  Pye                 ^02  any  Sore  Mouthy  Thrufiy 

A  Hare  Pye                  ibid.  or  Canker                    ^')^ 

A  Green^Goofe  Pye        203  An  Ointment  for  the  Piles 

7h  Foe  0efiire  Cheefe     104  259        . 

A  very  good  Way    to  keep  Another  for  the  fame    ibi<J. 

Tongues  inV'vcklt'ifor  BoiU  ^ 

ingj  to  eat  hot  or  cold    207 

An  admirable  Pickle,  in  Imi-  Rasberry  Jam                22 1 

tation  o/lndia  Bambooy  ex^  ^  ^^gj  x)r/>*  in  the  Rickety 

a^ly  as  that  is  done  έΑλ  ibid,  έΑλ  2^2 

To  Viddefmall  Onions    208  Another  for  the  Rickets  2^4, 

To  Pickle  Cucumbers  in  Slices  ^  Sahefor  a  Rupture    265 

^     ,               '      ,      ^09  An  excellent  ffay  to  make 

A  Neat's  r(i┬╗^┬τePudding  212  ^^^  purging  Syrup  of  Rofes 

ne  beftWaytomake  the  old  r^  &  &  J    r  J     ^^^ 

'  EnglifliBr^rfrfPudding2i3  g 

An  excellent  Oatrmealrixdr  .      .    ^ 

ding                          2.14  A  Sweet  Sauce  for  boiPd 

A  Rice  0r  Millet  Vnddin^  ib.  Mutton                       200 

A  Pancake  PuddiDfr        215  To  Soufe  a  Turkey  in  Imita^ 

PuflB  to  fry  inftead  of  Fritters  .4ion  of  Sturgeon          205 

ibid.  *ro  Stew  Cucumbers   to  eat 

An  Almond  Piidding      7,16  Hot                            210 

A  Lemon  Pudding     "^  ^217  For  the  Stone                 239 

^n  Orange  V\iddki%  for  Skins  An    excellent  Ale  for   the 

218  Scurvy                     240 

To  Preferve  Cherries        222  A  purging  Ifiet  Drink  for  the 

fq  Prefe^y^  g;reen  Apricots  fame                          n^   έΑλ 

^2^  A  mofi  incomparable  JSAvG 


I'SPS'S- " MwfflS┬χ  ST''"'*  "S  Veni- 


1 

-! 

**ilti.4t 

I* 

l' 

^  .ft. 

ilfr 

% 

:*? 

:*: 

#_ 

έΨιk 

:fr 

έΨιs- 

*:  έΑλ 
έΑλ  :*: 

s; 


i^ii 


V 


i 

s 

\ 


I 

έΨι 


