fW^ 


^^^^•^^ff'll Mil  I  111     nil 


>".^^^'V^ 


YT 


COOKERY    BOOK 


iFasting  anti  aHistincuce  ©agg, 

r 


BY 


P.  0.  P. 

AUTHOR  OF   "TBX,   NABOB'B  CXMKXRY    BOOK,"    KTC. 


/Ti^tt  ^Ijit^on. 


ftf 


LOXDON:  BUKXS  &  GATES,  Limited. 
NEAV  YORK :  CATHOLIC  PUBLICATIOX  SOCIETY  CO. 


'■       9. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Although  the  variety  of  cookery  books  at  pre- 
geut  in  circulation  is  very  great,  nevertheless  I 
thouf^ht  that  a  small  one  composed  entirely  of 
**  maigre  "  dishes  might  be  useful,  especially  to 
Catholics,  a^  during  a  long  period  of  abstinence 
they  become  wearied  of  the  monotony  of  their 
diet,  and  are  ofttimes  puzzled  to  know  what  to 
order. 

I  have  not  given  diiections  for  the  simple 
boiling  or  frying  of  fish,  as  I  presume  even 
ordinary  cooks  can  undertake  these  branches, 
but  have  endeavoured  to  give  a  choice  of 
savoury  dishes,  either  of  fish  or  vegetables,  and 
to  meet  the  difficulty  of  preparing  these,  and 
soups,  without  the  addition  of  meat  gravy,  which 
in  this  country  Lb  so  often  thought  indi^peui- 
able. 


CONTEKTa 


80UP8. 


1.  Fish  Stuck  for  Soup 

2.  Ordinaiy  Fish  Soup 

3.  Ovster  Soup 

4.  Eel  Soup  (White) 

5.  Eel  Soup  (Mrowii) 

6.  Jersey  Conger  Eel  Soup 

7.  Eel  Broth 

8.  Carrie  Soup 

9.  Scotch    Broth    without 

Meat 

10.  Imitation  Mutton  Broth 

11.  Another      Recipe      for 

niakiiiL;  it 

12.  Maigre  Gravy 

13.  Vegetable  Soup  (No.  i) 

14.  Vegetable  Soup  (No.  2) 

15.  Vegetable  Soup  (No.  3) 

16.  Vegetable  Soup  (No.  4) 


17.  Pea  Soup 

18.  Pea    Soup    made   with 

Pea  Flour 

19.  Green  Pea  Soup 

20.  Cabbage  Sou]) 

21.  Savoy  Cabbage  Soup 

22.  Cab])age  and  Milk  Soup 

23.  Pumpkin  S.»up 
24-  Onion  Sou]» 

25.  Sorrel  Soup 

26.  Tomato  Soup 

27.  Potato  Soup 

28.  Egg  Soup 

29.  Rice  Soup 

30.  White  Soup 

31.  Milk  Soup 

32.  Macaroni  Soup 

33.  Vermicelli  Soup 


PIES. 


34. 
35- 

36. 

37- 


Ordinary  Fish  Pie 
Halibut  Pie.   Yorkahire 

recipe 
Eel  Pie 
Oyster  Pie 


38- 
39- 
40. 

41. 


Oyster  and  Macaroni  Pie 

Egg  Pie 

Cheese    and     Macaroni 

Pie 
Potato  Pie 


71 


CONTENTS. 


CURRIES. 


42.  Curried  Salmon 

43.  Lobster  Currie 

44.  Curried  Cod 

45.  Carried  Sole 


46.  Prawn  Currie 

47.  Curried  Eggs 

48.  Curried  Potatoes 

49.  Curried  Colcannon 


DISHES  OF  FISH. 


Collared  Salmon 

Pickled  Salmon 
Potted  Salmon 
Salmon  Cutlets 
Dried  Salmon 
Baked  Haddock 
Baked  Herrings 
Salt  Cod  and  Potatoes 
Mock  Grab 
Buttered  Shrimps 
Scalloped  Oysters 
Oyster  Fritters 
Fried  Oysters 
Broiled  Oysters 

64.  Oyster  Patties 

65.  Lobster  Patties 
To  Pot  Lobsters 
Preserved  LobsteiB 
Lobster  Salad 
Fish  Saut6 

70.  Fish  in  a  Shape 

71.  Fish  on  Toast 


50. 

51- 

52. 
53- 
54. 

li. 

58. 

60. 

61. 
62. 
63 


66. 

67. 
68. 
69. 


72.  Sliced  Fish 

73.  Roasted  Eel 

74.  Stewed  Eel 

75.  To  Cook  Craw- fish 

76.  Escalloped    Fish   with 

Potatoes 

77.  Fish  Rissoles 

78.  Anchovy  Sandwiches 


Anchovy  Toast 

Fish  and  Rice  Cro- 
quettes 

To  Cook  Bloaters  and 
Herrings 

To  Dress  Smoked  Had- 
docks 

83.  Mayonnaise  of  Fish 

84.  Caviare 
Scotch  Woodcock 
Fish  Salad 
Baked  Fish  to  be  eaten 

Cold 


80. 
81. 
83. 


85. 
86. 
87 


OMKLETTBS. 


88.  Fish  Omelette 

89.  Another  Fish  Omelette 

90.  Ojrster  Omelette 

91.  Cneese  Omelette 


92.  Omelette     aux     Fines 

Herbes 

93.  Red  Herring  Omelette 

94.  Onion  Omelette 


CONTENTS. 


Vll 


VARIOUS  METHODS  OF  COOKING  EGGS. 


95.  A  French  Way  of  Serv- 

ing Eggs 

96.  Another  French  Way 

97.  Egg  Patties 

98.  Buttered  Eggs 

99.  Pickled  Eggs 
100.  Eggs  in  Jelly 


10 1.  Mushrooms  and  Eggs 

102.  Scalloped  Eggs 

103.  Baked  Eggs 

104.  Inverness  Eggs 

105.  Egg:  Sandwiches 


CHEESE. 


107.  Fromage  Fondue 

108.  Cheese  Ramakins 
T09.  Macaroni  Cheese 
1 10.  Stewed  Cheese 
Hi.  Baked  Cheese 


1 1 2.  Welsh  Rabbit  or  Rare- 

bit 

113.  Potted  Cheese 

114.  Roasted  Cheese 

115.  Cheese  Toast 


VEGETABLES. 


116.  Irish     Stew     without 

Meat 

117.  A     Pretty     Dish     of 

Mashed  Potatoes 

118.  Potatoes  Scalloped 

119.  Another  Way 

120.  Potatoes   a  la   Maitre 

d'Hatel 

121.  Fried  Potatoes 

122.  Puree  of  Potatoes 

123.  Rissoles  of  Potatoes 

124.  Potato  Cakes 

125.  Potato  Salad 

126.  Potatoes  with  Milk 

127.  Stewed  green  Peas 

128.  Cape  Cabbage 

129.  Stewed  Cabbage 

130.  Cabbage  Salad 

131.  Cauliflowers       with 

White  Sauce 

132.  A     French     Way     of 

Cookinof  Beans 


133.  Boiled  Haricots 

134.  Haricots  Stewed   with 

Onions 

135.  An  Excellent  Way  to 

Cook  Spinach 

136.  Colcannon 

137.  Stewed  Lettuce 

138.  Stewed  Carrots 

139.  Stewed  Cucumber 

140.  Stewed  Celery 

141.  Globe  Artichokes 

142.  Baked  Tomatoes 

143.  Tomato  Dumplings 

144.  Boiled  Beetroot 

145.  To      Cook       Spanish 

Onions 

146.  Broiled  Mushrooms 

147.  Stewed  Mushrooms 

148.  Indian  Salado 

149.  Canapes 

1 50.  Fried  Rice 

151.  To  Cook  Lentils 


Vlll 


CONTENTS. 


PICKLES,  SAUCES,  ETC. 


152 

Tjord    Lougli  borough's 
Pickles 

157- 

153- 

Tomato  Sauce 

T«;8. 

154. 

Gherkiii  Sauce 

IS9- 

155- 

Sauce  Pi([uaiite 

160. 

156. 

Wliite  Sauce 

161. 

Parsli'v  Sauce  without 

Buttrr 
To  Mak.'MoltcMJ  Butter 
A  Good  Salad  Dressing 

160.  French  Salad  Dn^ssing 

161.  I^o  Fry  Bread  for  Pea 
8uup 


SOUPS. 


1.  Fish  Stock  for  Soup. 

Boil  the  fish  of  wliich  you  make  the  stock  (the 
bones  of  a  cod's  head  will  answer  the  purpose)  in 
three  pints  of  water  with  a  couple  of  onions,  a 
piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  iierbs, 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  it  until  all 
the  goodness  is  extracted,  skim  carefully,  and 
strain  it,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

2.  Ordinary  Fish  Soup. 

Take  three  pints  of  fish  stock,  and  add  to  it 
any  pieces  of  cold  fish  which  you  may  have ;  or 
if  you  buy  any  for  the  purpose,  you  may  select  either 
sole,  halii)Ut,  or  cod,  and  cut  them  into  ratlier 
small  pieces  off  the  l)()nes ;  boil  for  half  an  hour, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour,  and  add  a  teas|)Oonful 
of  anchovy  sauce.  Lobster  meat  and  shrimps 
pounded  in  a  mortar  greatly  improve  fish  soups. 

3.  Oyster  Soup. 

Add  to  three  pints  of  fish  stock  the  hard- 
boiled  and  well-pounded  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
the  beards  and  hard  parts  of  eighteen  oysters. 
Simmer  for  half  an  hour,  and  strain  the  liquor 
into  a  fresh  stewpan  into  which  you  have  put  the 
best  parts  of  the  eighteen  oysters ;  add  a  little 
mace  and  cayenne,  and  let  it  simmer  for  eight 
minutes.     Break  up   the   yolks   of    two  eggs  and 


lO  SOUPS. 

mix  tliL'iu  with  a  little  cold  fiah  stock,  and  two  or 
three  tablespooiifula  of  cream ;  stir  tliia  to  the 
hot  soup,  beinsjj  careful  that  the  et^i^^s  do  not 
curdle.  Squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  into  the 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  on  it. 

4.  Eel  Soup  (White). 

Skin  two  pounds  of  eels,  cut  them  into  pieces  oil' 
the  hones ;  put  the  hones  into  a  saucepan  with 
three  pints  of  water,  one  onion,  a  handful  of 
parsley,  a  little  thyme,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a 
littl'  nutm('<j^,  two  or  three  ounces  of  butter,  and 
[)epper  and  salt  to  taste;  boil  these  well  until  all 
the  ijfoodness  is  extracted  from  the  bones,  then 
strain  into  another  saucepati,  and  put  into  it  the 
pieces  of  eel :  simmer  carefully  until  the  fish  is 
snfBciently  cooked,  but  not  broken;  then  take  it 
out  and  put  it  in  your  soup  tureen.  Mix  half  a 
teaeupful  of  flour  smoothly  into  half  a  pint,  of 
cream,  add  this  to  the  soup  and  boil  until  it 
thickens,  then  pour  over  the  eels  and  serve. 

5.  Eel  Soup  (Brown;. 

Cut  the  skinned  eels  into  pieces  off  the  bone.s 
AS  in  the  previous  recipe,  and  boil  tlie  bones  with 
the  same  in  ingredients,  ;ind  stiain  off  as  before,  and 
then  proceed  as  follows: — Put  the  pieces  of  eel 
into  a  fryin<j:  pan  w^'th  an  ounce  of  beef  drippin<^ 
or  butter,  fry  until  sli<^htly  brown,  then  take 
them  out  and  lay  them  aside;  put  into  the  fryin^i^ 
pnn  a  sliced  onion  and  fry  this  brown,  and  add  it 
to  th(»  soup  which  has  been  strained,  boil  up  and 
put  into  it  a  little  mushioom  catsup.  Worcester 
or  Reading  sauces,  brown  with  a  little  burnt  sugar 
or  browninnr.  thicken  with  flour  and   w^ater,   and 


SOUPS.  I  I 

pour  over  the  eels  as  directed  in  the  fore<^oing 
recipe.  The  eels  may  be  boiled  for  a  few  niinutes 
in  the  soup,  if  the  frying  has  not  MiflSciently 
cooked  them.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  may  be 
added  if  approved. 

6.  Jersey  Conger  Eel  Soup. 

Cut  into  pieces  a  middling-sized  conger  eel 
without  skinning  it,  put  it  into  two  quarts  of  fish 
stock  ;  boil  until  the  soup  is  reduced  one-half,  then 
strain  off  and  put  the  liquor  only  into  another 
saucepan,  cut  twelve  oysters  in  two,  and  add  them 
to  the  SOU]),  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  thicken 
witli  flour,  add  a  little  nutmeg  and  a  teacupfnl  of 
crejun,  boil  up  and  ])our  into  the  tureen,  throwing 
a  few  petals  of  the  marigold  flower  on  the  top  of 
the  soup  before  it  is  sent  to  table. 

7.  Eel  Broth. 

Wash,  but  do  not  skin,  half  a  pound  of  small 
eels,  and  put  them  into  a  saucei)an  with  three 
pints  of  water,  a  slice  of  onion,  and  some  pepper 
and  salt.  Let  them  simmer  until  the  eels  are 
broken,  and  the  liquor  reduced  one  half,  then 
strain  it  off. 

8.  Currie  Soup. 

Rub  smooth  a  large  tablespoonful  of  currie 
powder  with  a  little  water,  and  put  this  into 
a  saucei)an  with  two  or  three  fried  onions ;  add 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  maigre  gravy,  and  boil  it  up ; 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  in  a  basin  with  a 
teaspoont'ul  of  flour,  a  little  butter,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Pour  the  boiling  soup  upon 
this  and  mix  well. 


1 2  SOUPS, 

9.  Scotch  Broth  without  Meat. 

Wasli  an  ounce  of  barley,  then  put  it  into 
tliree  ])ints  of  cold  water  in  a  pancepan  with  a  piece 
of  dripping,  a  turnip  cut  in  jiiecea,  a  little  celery 
(an  outer  stalk  will  do),  a  liandfiil  of  parsley,  an 
onion,  and  a  little  lemon  tliynuv  Let  this  boil 
until  the  veiretables  have  imparted  their  flavour, 
jind  th(»  liquor  is  niurh  reduced  in  qunntity. 
]\Iake  a  few  balls  or  small  dumplintj^s  of  flour, 
butter,  water,  ])epper  atid  salt,  boil  them  hall-an- 
hour  in  the  liquor,  and  serve  all  together. 

10.  Imitation  Mutton  Broth. 
Put  a  quart  of  water  into  a  saucepan  with  an 
onion,  a  tmnip,  a  larire  ))iece  of  butter  (or  dri]'ping, 
if  required  foi-  collation),  a  tablespoon ful  of  |)eMrl 
barley,  a  handful  of  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  a  few 
peppercorns,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  for 
jbout  an  hour,  and  serve.  If  not  sufficiently  thick, 
I  little  fine  oatmeal  may  be  added. 

11.  Another  recipe  for  making  imitation 
Mutton  Broth. 

MADi:  IN  FIVK  MINITTK8. 

Boil  a  few  leaves  of  parsley  witli  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup  in  three  quarters  of 
a  pint  of  very  thin  oatmeal  gruel.  Season  with  a 
little  salt  and  |)ep{>er. 

12.  "Maigre"  Gravy. 

Put  a  pint  of  water  into  a  BiUU'epan.  Add  the 
following: — A  small  raw  onion,  and  one  previously 
fried  brown,  a  little  parsley  and  thyme,  an  out- 
side leaf  of  celery,  a  small  carrot,  or  a  part  of  one, 


SOUPS.  1 3 

.  teaspoonfiil  of  Reading  sauce,  a  blade  of  mace, 
lud  a  liule  salt,  pe{)i)er,  and  cayenne.  Let  this 
l)oil  for  half  an  hour,  or  rather  longer  ;  then  burn 
some  brown  sugar  in  a  spoon,  and  stir  it  in  to 
colour  it.  Dripping  or  butter  may  be  boiled  in  it 
if  required  to  be  rich,  and  a  little  flour  put  to 
thicken  it. 

13.  Vegetable  Soup.     (Xo.  i.) 

Boil,  in  three  quarts  of  water,  four  potatoes, 
four  turnips,  four  carrots,  one  large  onion,  and 
one  head  of  celery,  until  all  is  reduced  to  a  pulp; 
pass  it  through  a  sieve  or  colander,  add  two 
ounces  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  Harvey  or 
Worcester  sauce,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt  ; 
make  it  a  nice  brown  colour,  with  a  little  burnt 
sugar,  and  serve.  It  ought  to  be  the  thickness  ot 
pea  sonp,  and  it  may  be  thickened  with  a  little 
rice-flour,  if  the  above  proportions  do  not  ujake  it 
of  the  proper  consistency. 

14   Vegetable  Soup.    (Xo.  2 ) 

Peel,  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  four  or  five  laiire 
carrots,  one  onion,  and  five  or  six  large  potatoes,  boil 
lliem  in  three  pints  of  water  with  a  small  piece  ol 
butter  or  dripping  until  the  vegetables  are  all  to 
pieces  ;  a  little  more  water  may  be  added  if  mnch  has 
boiled  away  before  the  vegetables  are  sufficiently 
cooked.  Mix  smoothly  a  teacupful  of  flour  with 
the  same  quantity  of  water,  and  add  it  to  the 
boiling  soup,  which  must  be  stirred  until  it 
thickens,  and  more  flour  added  if  the  above 
quantity  does  not  make  it  suflSciently  thick  ;  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound,  or  rather  less,  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  have  ready  in  the  soup 


14  SOUPS. 

tureen  the  well-bealeii  yolks  of  tliree  eggs  ;  pour 
the  boiling  soup  on  tlieiu,  mixing  all  thoroughly 
togetiier,  and  serve. 

15.  Vegetable  Soup.    (No.  3.) 

Cut  up  two  large  onions,  two  or  three  turnips, 
four  (u*  five  carrots,  accorilini::  to  size,  one  parsnip, 
and  a  head  of  celery,  put  theui  iuto  a  saucepan 
with  a  quart  or  three  pints  of  water,  a  small 
hunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
i)Utler  or  dripping,  and  some  pepper  and  salt;  let 
it.  nimmer  for  three  hours,  then  strain  it.  Put 
the  liquor  into  a  fresh  saucepan,  add  a  little  carroL 
and  turnip  cut  up  as  for  soupe  julietine,  a  few 
luni[)s  of  sugai-,  and  a  tahlespoonful  of  mushroom 
catsup.  Simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer, 
•nnl  serve. 

16.  Vegetable  Soup.    (No.  4.) 

Put  three  onions  slicrd  into  a  siiucepan,  with  a 
(piart  of  water,  some  celery  (the  outer  stalks  or 
leaves  do  very  well  for  soup),  some  lettuce  leaves, 
a  lew  handt'uls  of  spin;icli,  and  a  little  parsley,  all 
'hopped  small  ;  boil  them  until  they  are  quit(isoft, 
-eason  to  taste  with  ]K*i  per,  salt,  nutmeg,  mace, 
A:c.  Beat  up  two  yolks  of  eggs,  and  put  them 
with  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice  into  the  tureen  ; 
iH)ur  the  soup  boiling  upon  this,  stirring  it  till   it 

15  thoroughly  mixed,  and  serve. 

17.  Pea  Soup. 

Soak  half  a  pound  of  split  peas  for  twelve 
hours,  then  pour  away  the  water,  and  remove  all 
the  peas  which  are  not  good.  Put  the  remainder 
into   two  quarts   of   water,   with   a    quarter    of  a 


SOUPS.  15 

|)Oun(l  of  butter  or  dripping,  a  stick  of  celery,  or 
some  celery  seed,  one  whole  onion,  and  anollier 
previously  cut  up  and  fried,  two  or  three  carrots, 
the  same  number  of  turnips,  and  a  little  mint; 
let  this  simmer  until  the  peas  are  thoroughly  done. 
Season  it  to  taste  and  serve.  It  may  be  rubbed 
through  a  colander  if  preferred. 


18.  To  prepare  Pea  Soup  with  Pea  Flour. 

Put  into  a  quart  of  water  two  or  tliree  turnips 
and  carrots,  some  celery,  a  little  mint,  some 
parsley,  an  onion  or  two,  and  a  little  lemon  thyme  ; 
add  three  ounces  of  beef  dripping,  with  salt  and 
])epper  ;  boil  until  the  vegetables  are  quite  soft. 
Take  some  pea  flour  (Symington's  is  the  best),  mix 
it  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  it  to 
the  boiling  soup  ;  let  it  boil  till  it  thickens,  throw 
a  little  chopped  mint  into  the  tureen.  ;uid  poui*  the 
soup  on  to  it. 

Serve  fried  bread  with  this  and  the  preceding 
fioup. 

19.  Green  Pea  Soup. 

Take  a  pint  of  old  peas,  put  them  into  a  sauce 
pan,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water,  an  ounce 
of  butter,  an  onion  or  two,  some  lettuce  leaves, 
and  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  the  saucej)an  close, 
and  let  the  peas  simmer  till  they  are  quite  soft, 
then  rul  them  through  a  colander;  add  to  the 
liquor  more  water,  some  more  lettuce  leaves,  a 
pint  of  young  i)eas,  a  little  chopped  spinach,  mint, 
salt,  pepper,  some  more  butter,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  mixed  smooth  with   a  little  waler  ;  boil 


1 6  SOUPS. 

this  also  till  the  peas  can  be  rubbed  through  h 
colander,  warm  all  the  liqnor  up  together,  and 
serve. 

20.  Cabbage  Soup. 

FRENrn    UKCIPK. 

Wash  a  cahhiii^e  in  warm  (not  hot)  water,  with 
a  little  salt  in  it,  then  ])nt  it  into  cold  water  and 
leave  it  for  some  little  time.  Have  ready  a  sauce- 
pan half  lull  of  boiling  water  with  salt  in  it,  pick 
the  cabbage  to  pieces  and  put  it  into  the  saucepan 
whilst  the  water  is  boiling,  add  a  good  piece  of 
butter,  about  two  ounces,  let  it  boil  till  tender,  and 
just  before  it  is  served  up  add  to  it  some  vert/  thin 
slices  of  bread.  This  soup  is  greatly  improved 
by  the  addition  of  a  lew  green  peas. 

21.  Savoy  Cabbage  Soup. 

Boil  three  pints  of  water  with  sufficient  oat- 
meal to  make  it  rather  thick  fa  teacnplul  will  do 
if  the  oatmeal  is  good)  ;  cut  a  savoy  cabbage  into 
pieces,  and  put  it  with  two  or  three  ounces  of 
butter  into  the  saucepjui  with  tlu*  water  and 
oatmeal  ;  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
simmer  for  about  an  hour,  until  the  cabb;ig<*  is 
sufficiently  tender.  A  small  onion  may  be  added 
if  liked. 

22.  Cabbage  and  Milk  Soup. 

FKKNCH    RECIPK. 

Boil  a  large  white  cabbage  until  it  is  half  done, 
and  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
])epp«'r  Mud  salt  to  taste.  When  it  is  well  boiled 
pour  off  h.df  the  water,  cut  the  cabbage  in  pieces, 
and  add  as  nmch  boiling  milk  as  you  have  taken 
of  water,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  and  then  serve. 


SOUPS,  17 

23.  Pumpkin  Soup. 

FRENCH    KECIPE. 

Peel  and  take  the  pips  from  a  pumpkin,  cut  it 
in  pieces  about  two  inclu  s  long,  put  them  iuto 
H  saucepau  with  a  small  quantity  ot"  water,  iso  that 
the  latter  may  be  aluiost  absorbed  when  the 
vegetable  has  become  soft ;  it  must  be  boiled  to  a 
pulp,  aud  beaten  up  smooth  with  a  fork,  then  add  a 
large  lump  of  butter,  and  let  it  simmer  for  some 
little  time,  stir  iuto  it  some  boiling  milk,  adding 
pep[)er  aud  salt  to  taste ;  cut  some  very  thiu 
slices  of  bread,  place  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup 
tureen,  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  over  them. 

French  persons  often  put  sugar  iuto  tliis  soup 
instead  of  salt  and  pepper. 

24.  Onion  Soup. 

Boil  a  Portugal  ouion  and  a  lew  small  English 
ones  iu  a  quart  of  water,  with  three  ounces  of 
butter,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  cayenne,  until  tho 
onions  are  quite  soft,  then  mix  a  tablespoouful  of 
fli)ur  or  arrowroot  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  aud  stir  it  iuto  the  s()U[).  The  onions  mai' 
be  straiued  from  the  soup  it  preferred. 

25.  Sorrel  Soup. 

FRENCH    RECIPE. 

Wash  the  sorrel  loell;  have  ready  some  water 
iQ  which  you  have  previously  boiled  French  beans 
or  peas ;  cut  up  the  sorrel  and  put  it  into  the 
saucepan  with  the  liquor  from  the  beans  or  peas. 
Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  lump  of  butter, 
boil  until  the  sorrel  is  suflSciently  cooked,  then  add 
u  little  milk,  and  some  tltin  slices  of  bread  ;  do 
not  let  it  hoil  after  the  milk  is  added. 

B 


1 8  sorps. 

26.  Tomato  Soup. 

Wash  eight  p)0(l-sizrd  loinaloes,  cut  them  up 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  a  hay  leaf,  some  thyme,  and  an  onion 
chop|)ed  fine,  add  three  pints  of  water,  and  let  it 
boil  until  the  tomatoes  can  he  pressed  throui^h  a 
sieve,  hoil  it  up  ai^ain,  adding  ahout  two  ounces  of 
butter  and  serve.  If  the  soup  should  he  too  thia 
(as  the  tomatoes  vary  in  size,  and  therefore  it  is 
difficult  to  give  the  exact  proportions),  it  may  be 
tliickened  with  a  little  floiu*,  or  if  too  thick,  it 
can  be  made  less  so  by  adding  a  little  more  water 
and  hultcr. 

27.  Potato  Soup. 

Cut  six  potatoes  and  one  onion  into  slices,  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  witii  half  a  pint  ol'  water 
and  the  same  quantity  of  milk,  hoil  until  soft,  and 
then  pulp  it  through  a  sieve;  add  pepper  and  salt, 
cayenne,  and  a  little  cream. 

28.  Egg  Soup. 

Break  the  yolks  of  four  (*ggs  into  a  basin,  add 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  ('hopped  [)arsley,  have 
ready  a  pint  of  water  in  which  you  have  boiled  a 
small  onion,  pour  this  water  and  onion  on  to  the 
eggs,  beating  them  all  the  time.  Put  all  together 
into  a  saucepan  with  about  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
butter,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  Harvey  sauce,  and  stir 
until  it  nearly  boils,  then  send  to  table  with  fried 
bread 

29.  Rice  Soup. 

Make  a  vegetable  soup  with  water,  carrots, 
turnips,  celery,   parsley,  onion,  &c.,  as  previously 


SOUPS,  19 

directed.  Take  a  quart  of  this,  and  liaving  removed 
tlie  vegetables,  put  into  it  a  teacnpful  of  washed 
rice  and  a  himp  of  butter  ;  let  it  stew  some  time, 
an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours,  until  the  rice  is 
veiT  soft  and  the  soup  is  of  a  proper  consistency  ; 
season  it  to  taste  ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
with  a  little  of  the  soup,  and  pour  into  the  sauce- 
pan a  moment  before  serving. 

30.  White  Soup. 

Pound  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds 
in  a  mortar  to  a  paste,  put  tliem  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  pint  of  water  and  a  pint  of  milk,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  salt,  white  pepper,  and  two  or 
three  blades  of  mace;  let  it  simmer  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  adding  a  little  vermicelli,  if 
appi'oved,  which  ought  to  be  cooked  in  the  sou]) 
for  about  ten  minutes.  Mix  three  or  four  table- 
s])Oonfuls  of  rice-flour  with  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
and  stir  it  to  the  boiling  sou]);  beat  up  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  put  them  into  the  tureen,  and 
pour  the  soup  when  rcjuly  to  s(Mve  upon  them. 

31.  Milk  Soup. 

FRENCH   IIECIFE. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  saucepan  with  one 
or  two  onions  cut  in  i)ieces,  simmer  until  the 
onion  is  quite  soft,  add  nearly  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  ;  let  it  sinuner  a  short  time  longer, 
then  throw  into  it  some  very  thin  slices  of  bread, 
and  pour  all  into  the  soup  tureen.  The  soup 
should  not  boil  nfter  the  bread  is  added. 


20  SOUPS. 

32.  Macaroni  Soup. 

Wash  a  quarter  of  a  pouml  of  inncaroni,  then 
let  it  lie  in  warm  water  for  about  an  hour.  Take 
it  out  of  tlie  water,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  quart  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  blade 
of  mace,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When 
Hutficiently  tender,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream  into  which  you  have  well  mixed  two  table- 
spoon fuls  of  corn-flour.  Stir  all  toilet  her  until  the 
soup  <;ets  thick,  add  some  well-pounded  almonds, 
and  serve. 

33.  Vermicelli  Soup. 

Wash  a  breakfast  cupful  of  rice,  boil  it  in 
three  pints  of  water,  until  it  is  so  soft  that  it  can 
be  beaten  throu<j^h  a  sieve  and  rendered  quite 
smooth  ;  put  it  into  the  saucepan  as^ain,  addin<]:  a 
very  ^nmW  piece  of  onion,  somc  ))epper  and  salt, 
and  a  teacupful  of  vermieelli  ;  when  the  vermi- 
celli is  cooked  enoutj:h,  add  half  a  pint  of  cnain, 
ooil  it  up  again  and  serve. 


(      21      ) 


PIES. 


34.  Ordinary  Fish  Pie. 

Take  a  filleted  sole,  cut  it  into  pieces,  or  you 
may  use  pieces  of  cod,  or  in  fact  any  cooked  or 
uncooked  fish  ;  lay  the  pieces  of  fish  into  a  pie- 
dish  with  balls  (made  of  parsley,  lemon,  thyme, 
crumbs  of  bread,  butter,  and  seasoning),  slices  oi 
hard  boiled  eggs,  and  small  pieces  of  butter 
between  each  layer  of  tish.  When  the  disli  is 
fidl,  dredge  a  little  flour,  and  add  half  a  teacupful 
of  winter  with  a  little  Harvey,  Worcester,  and 
anchovy  sauces,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Throw  a  little  chopped  j)ar6ley  over  all.  Cover 
with  a  light  crust,  and  bake.  A  mixture  of  several 
kinds  of  fish  makes  a  vqvj  good  pie,  and  a  few 
shrimps  added  much  improve  it. 

35.  Halibut  Pie. 

A    YORKSHIRE    RECIPE. 

Take  some  nice  fresh  halibut  (the  head  part 
mnkes  the  best),  cut  it  up  into  rather  large  pieces, 
and  season  each  piece  separately  with  mace,  black 
and  white  pepper,  cayenne,  allspice,  and  salt. 
Place  the  })ieces  of  fish  into  the  pie-dish  ;  between 
each  layer  dredge  a  good  deal  of  flour  and  some 
finely  chopped  parsley,  place  here  and  there  balls 
made  of  chopped    tish,    parsley,    bread    crumbs, 


22  PIES, 

butter  (or  dripping),  ])eppor  and  salt,  and  beaten 
eu^g  to  bind  tbeni.  Butter  rolled  in  flour  must 
also  be  placed  on  eacb  layer.  Tlien  jiour  a  little 
water  over  all,  and  cover  with  a  crust  neither  too 
thick  nor  too  rich.  Wlien  baked,  open  the  lid 
and  pour  in  some  thick  melted  butter,  or  send  a 
pjiuce  tureen  of  melted  butter  to  table  with  it. 
The  tj^oodness  of  the  pie  depends  upon  havin^i; 
plenty  of  butter,  parsley,  ;nid  Hour  put  into  it,  or 
the  gravy  will  be  too  thin.  The  ])ie  is  improved 
l)y  being  left  to  stand  a  short  time  out  of  the  oven 
before  serving  it. 

36.  Eel  Pie. 

Skin  and  bone  tw^)  good-sized  eels,  and  cut 
them  in  pieces.  Put  the  bones  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  pint  of  fish  stock,  or  water,  some  chopped 
parsley  and  other  herbs,  and  pe]>per  and  salt  to 
taste.  Boil  this  for  thiee-quarlers  of  an  hour  and 
then  strain.  Have  ready  a  tilleted  sole,  or  some 
large  flakes  of  fresh  cod tish,  and  place  these  with 
the  eels  into  a  pie  dish.  Add  some  pieces  of 
butter  or  beef-dripi)ing,  a  little  chopi)ed  parsley,  a 
mnjall  piece  of  onion  if  the  flavour  is  liked,  pour 
the  strained  liquor  over,  cover  it  with  good  paste, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

37.  Oyster  Pie. 

Cover  the  ^ides  and  edge  of  a  pie  dish  witii  good 
pjiste.  Put  twelve  or  more  oysters  with  part  of 
tlieir  liquor  into  a  basin  ;  add  the  finely  chopped 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  some  grated  bread,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Put  this  mixture  into  the  pie 
dish,  cover  with  a  crust,  ornament  it  in  the  usual 
maimer,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


PIES,  23 

38.  Oyster  and  Macaroni  Pie. 

Boil  some  macaroni  in  water  and  butter  until 
tender,  season  it  well,  and  lay  it  in  a  pie  dish. 
Cover  it  with  oysters  from  which  you  have  taken 
the  beards,  add  a  httle  more  seasoning,  a  grating 
of  lemon  peel,  and  a  spoonful  of  cream.  Put  an 
edging  of  potato  paste  round  the  disli,  and  eitlier 
cover  the  top  with  potato  paste,  or  strew  a  iVw 
bread  crumbs  over.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

39.  Egg  Pie. 

Boil  a  teacupful  of  rice,  and  put  it  into  a  pie 
dish  witli  butler,  pepper,  and  salt.  Boil  hard  four 
or  five  eggs,  cut  them  in  slices,  and  ])lace  them 
amongst  the  rice.  Fry  an  onion,  sprinkle  it  over 
the  eggs  and  rice  ;  ])0ur  gravy  (maigre)  over  it, 
cover  with  a  light  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

40.  Cheese  and  Macaroni  Pie. 

Prepare  macamni  with  cheese  in  the  ordinary 
way,  but  instead  of  putting  it  into  the  oven,  or 
otherwise  browning  it,  ])our  it  into  a  pie  dish,  and 
pour  a  little  gravy  (maigre)  over  it.  Cover  it  with 
a  light  crust,  and  bake. 

41.  Potato  Pie. 

Boil  some  potatoes,  but  do  not  cook  them 
suflBcieutly  for  eating  ;  cut  them  into  slices,  and 
lay  them  in  a  pie  dish  with  an  onion  previously 
boiled  soft  and  chopj^d  fine.  Add  some  pieces 
of  butter,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  Worcester 
sauce,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water.  Cover  with  a  good  crust,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


(       24      ) 


CURRIES. 


42.  Curried  Salmon. 

Take  the  remains  of  dressed  salmon,  or  if  you 
take  uncooked  fish  it  must  be  partJMlly  boiled 
before  you  currie  it,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  u  fried  onion,  a  little 
(m;ii<^re)  .sj:ravy,  into  which  you  have  mixed  a  table- 
B|M)ont"ul  of  currie  powder,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a 
dessertspoonful  of  vinegar,  or  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  a  teas|)oonful  of  Reading  sauce,  and  the 
same  of  anchovy,  pour  over  this  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  more  of  (maigre)  gravy,  and  let  it  all  stew  for 
about  twenty  minutes  ;  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter,  boil  five  minutes  more  and  serve. 

Rice  is  always  served  with  curries,  but  it  ought 
to  be  sent  to  table  in  a  separate  dish  ;  it  must  be 
boiled  very  carefully  and  strained  off  directly  the 
grains  are  tender,  as  it  must  be  quite  dry  when 
served. 

43   Lobster  Currie. 

Pick  the  meat  from  a  large  lobster  and  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  one  raw  onion  and  another 
fried  ;  brown  in  a  frying-pan  two  ounces  of  butter, 
and  pour  this  upon  tlie  lobster  ;  mix  smooth  a 
tablespoonful  of  currie  powder  with  a  little  water 
and  a  tablespoon ful  of  vinegar,  and  add  this  with 
half  a  pint  of  fish  slock  or  (maigre)  gravy  to  the 
lobster.  Stew  Lfently  for  about  half  an  liour,  and 
serve. 


CURRIES.  25 

44.  Curried  Cod. 

Put  the  flakes  of  a  piece  of  cod  into  a  frying- 
pan,  and  fry  tlieni  brown  ;  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  half  a  fried  onion,  add  a  little  fish  stock, 
a  spoonful  of  currie  powder,  a  good  lump  of  butter 
and  a  little  vinegar,  with  salt  to  taste.  Simmer 
gently  until  the  fish  is  cooked,  add  a  spoonful  of 
flour  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and  serve. 

45.  Curried  Sole. 

Gut  some  pieces  oft\a  thick  sole,  put  them  into 
a  stewpan  with  some  (maigre)  gravy,  a  spoonful  of 
currie  powder,  a  teaspoon ful  of  lemon  juice,  and 
two  ounces  of  butter  ;  cook  slowly,  thicken  the 
gravy,  and  serve  when  the  fish  is  sufficiently 
done. 

46.  Prawn  Currie. 

Slice  and  fry  an  onion,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan, mix  a  dessertspoonful  of  currie  powder  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cream,  add  four  or 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  tish  stock,  pour  this  upon  the 
onion  in  tlie  saucepan,  add  eighteen  large  {)rawns 
taken  from  their  shells,  and  a  large  piece  of  butter, 
let  all  this  stew  together  until  the  prawns  are  quite 
tender  ;  a  moment  before  serving  add  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

47.  Curried  Eggs. 

Take  a  pint  of  (maigre)  gravy,  put  into  this  one 
fried  onion  and  a  tablespoonful  of  currie  powder, 
rub  smooth  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  a  little 
cream,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  it ;  when  it 
boils  add  six  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  into  slices,  let 
them  remain  in  the  soup  until  quite  hot,  but 
do  not  let  them  boil. 


20  DISHES  OF  FISH. 

48.  Curried  Potatoes. 

Have  ready  six  pulatoos  half  boiled,  cnt  them 
in  slices  and  pnt  them  into  a  saucepan  with  suffi- 
cient (niaii^jre)  trmvy  to  cover  tlieni,  rub  smooth 
a  tahk\spoonful  of  cnrrie  powder  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  put  ihis  into  the  saucepan 
with  the  potatoes,  add  a  little  butter  and  flour  to 
thicken  the  gravy  ;  simmer  gently  until  the 
potatoes  are  sufficiently  cooked,  and  serve. 

49.  Curried  Calcannon. 
This  makes  a  nice  (maigre)  dish.  The  cabbage 
and  potato  wliich  have  been  previously  boiled  are 
wtH  choppt'd,  but  instead  of  frying  (hem,  tbey  are 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  j)iece  of  dripping  or 
i)utter,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  spoonful 
of  currie  powder  mixed  inl,o  sufficient  (maigre) 
gravy  to  moisten  the  vegetables,  and  a  little  salt. 
Warm  the  whole  thoroughly,  and  serve. 


DISHES    OF    FISH. 

50.  Collared  Salmon  or  Mackerel. 

Cut  off  the  head  and  tail,  bone  and  well  wash 
it,  lay  it  upon  a  board  and  dry  it,  season  it  well 
with  pepper,  a  little  powdered  mace,  grati^d 
nutmeg,  and  salt,  rub  both  sides  of  the  fish  with 
this  seasoning,  and  then  roll  it  up  very  tight,  put 
it  into  a  collaring  clotli.  fasten  it  securdy  and 
boil  it  in  water  and  salt,  with  about  a  teacupful  of 
vinegar,   to  which  you   have  added  boni"  crushed 


DISHES  OF  FISH.  2  J 

l)ay  leaves,  peppercorns,  and  mace.  A  salmon 
would  take  an  hour  or  longer  to  cook,  a  mackeiel 
about  twenty  minutes ;  they  must  be  gently 
simmered.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  take  up  tlia 
fish  and  boil  tlie  liquor  until  it  is  greatly  reduced, 
keep  it  till  cold,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  hsh. 
having  taken  it  out  of  the  cloth.  Serve  cold,  and 
decorate  witli  parsley  or  fennel. 

51.  Pickled  Salmon. 

A  fish,  of  course,  can  be  cooked  expressly  lor 
pickling,  but  any  previously  cooked  is  nearly  as 
good.  Directly  it  comes  from  table  put  it  into  a 
pie  dish,  as  it  ought  to  be  pickled  whilst  it  is  warm, 
season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  ;  take 
equal  quantities  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
l)oiled  and  brown  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  fish 
^-cover  it  quiie.  Mackerel  may  l)e  pickled  in  the 
t^ame  manner. 

52.  Potted  Salmon. 

Take  any  cooked  salmon  which  may  be  left,  and 
after  removing  the  bones,  pound  the  fish  in  a 
marble  mortar  with  a  little  nutmeg,  a  blade  or  two 
of  mace,  pe{)per  to  taste,  and  a  little  cayenne  ; 
when  well  pounded  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
good  quantity  of  butter,  and  one  or  two  anchovies, 
or  some  anchovy  sauce ;  simmer  for  about  ten 
minutes,  and  then  put  it  into  pots,  {)ouring  clari- 
fied butter  over  it.  It  will  be  ready  for  table  as 
soon  as  it  is  cold. 

53.  Salmon  Cutlets. 

Let  the  slices  be  about  an  inch  thick,  and  rub 
them  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  fold  each   of 


28  DISHES  OF  FISH, 

tlieiii  into  well-butlered  paper,  closins^  np  the 
ends.  Put  tliein  on  a  fj^ridiron  and  l)roil  them  for 
about  ten  minutes,  turning  tliem  over  when  one 
side  is  cooked.  Place  them  on  a  dish,  and  put  a 
little  butter  on  each  cutlet. 

54.  Dried  Salmon. 

This  will  require  to  be  soaked  for  some  houis 
in  warm  water,  chan2:iniJ:  the  water  once  or  twice. 
It  can  then  either  be  boiled  or  dressed  as  sahnon 
cutlets. 

55.  Baked  Haddock. 

Wash,  and  w(»ll  clean  a  good  sized  haddock. 
Prepare  some  stuffing  of  chopped  parsley,  lemon 
peel,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pe|)per,  a  little 
jinchovy  sauce,  and  a  small  (piaulity  of  cayenne. 
Rub  into  this  a  piece*  of  drip|)ing  or  butter,  and 
mix  with  a  beaten-up  egg.  Put  this  stuffing  into 
the  fish,  sow  it  up,  place  it  on  a  baking  tin  or 
dish.  Rub  a  little  salt  over  it.  Dredge  the  fish 
and  tin  well  with  flour ;  put  some  butter  or 
dripping  on  it  and  in  the  tin,  and  place  it  in  the 
oven  ;  baste  it  fr((piently.  juid  send  it  totabl(Mvith 
the  liquor  which  will  l)e  in  the  tin.  The  time  for 
baking  it  will  of  course  depend  upon  its  size.  It 
must  be  floured  after  each  basting,  which  will  give 
it  i\  frothed  appearance. 

56.  Baked  Herring's. 

Wash  and  bone  some  fresli  herrings,  and  cut 
th(Mr  heads  off.  Have  ready  a  large  quantity  of 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  on  a  plate. 
Press  the  inside  of  the  herring  on  to  this,  the?i  roll 
it  np  and  sow  them  tightly  ;  place  them  in  a  jar 


DISHES  OF  FISH,  29 

with  a  bay  leaf  between  each  htMring.  Fill  tlie 
jar  with  vinegar,  and  bake  for  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  If  the  jar  is  well  tied  they  will  keep 
for  some  time.  Mackerel  can  be  cooked  in  the 
Knnie  manner. 


57.  Salt  Cod  and  Potatoes. 

Pick  to  pieces  some  cooked,  but  cold  salt  fisli, 
add  it  to  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes, 
mix  well  together.  Put  lliis  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  pepi)er,  stir  it 
until  it  is  thoroughly  hot,  then  send  it  to  table. 

N.B.  This  makes  a  very  nice  dish.  The  dried 
Newfoundland  cod  does  very  well  cooked  in  this 
manner,  but  it  must  be  soaked  for  some  time 
before  it  is  dressed. 

58.  Mock  Crab. 

Pound  some  rich  cheese  in  a  mortar,  adding 
some  made  nmstard,  a  little  salad  oil,  vinegar, 
cayenne,  and  salt.  Mix  with  it  a  few  fresh  or 
pickled  shrimps,  and  put  the  whole  into  a  crab 
shell,  and  serve. 


59.  Buttered  Shrimps. 

Take  the  shells  off  some  shrimps,  chop  them, 
but  not  in  too  small  pieces.  Put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  ])iece  of  butter,  a  little  cayenne, 
some  anchovy  sauce,  and  sufficient  beaten-up  eggs 
to  thicken  the  mixture.  Simmer  all  together 
stirring  them  one  way ;  when  hot  and  sufficiently 
thick,  serve  upon  pieces  of  buttered  toast. 


30  DISHES  OF  FISH. 

60.  Scalloped  Oysters. 

Take  two  dc^zon  oystrrs,  and  cut  the  beards 
and  hard  parts  off.  Cnt  tlie  oysters  each  into 
two  ])ieces,  and  pnt  the  beards  and  otlu  r  pieces 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water.  Spread  a 
layer  of  the  cut  oystcM's  on  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  little  pieces  of 
butler.  Continue  these  layers  alternately  until 
yoii  have  used  all  the  oysters,  and  ])lace  on  the 
top  the  bread  crumbs,  pieces  of  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt.  Boil  the  beards,  Ac,  which  are  in  the 
Rauc(»pan,  and  when  all  the  <!joodness  is  extracted 
strain  i\w  liquor  over  the  dish  of  oysters.  Bake 
in  an  oven  for  about  hnlf  an  hour,  and  brown  the 
top.  The  oysters  nuiy  be  put  in  scallops  instead 
of  on  a  di.^li 

61.  Oyster  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  with  flour,  milk,  and  one  or  two 
epp^s,  and  jj^rate  a  little  nutme<j^  to  it.  Beard  the 
oysters,  and  put  one  in  each  fritter. 

62.  Fried  Oysters. 

Take  off  the  beards,  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes  in  their  own  liquor;  drain  them;  beat  up 
the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eg<;s,  according  to  the 
number  of  oysters.  Dip  tlie  oysters  in  this,  and 
then  in  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt:  fry  them  of  a  \vji}\\  brown. 

63.  Broiled  Oysters. 

U[)en  as  many  oysters  as  you  require  for  the 
dish  ;  take  each,  as  you  open  them,  ofl'  the  fiat 
shell,  and  put  it  into  the  deep  one,  with  a  little  of 


DISHES  OF  FISH,  3  I 

tlie  liquor  ;  add  pepper,  snlf ,  cayenne,  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Put  the  shells 
with  the  oysters  on  a  gridiron,  and  let  them  cook 
for  about  five  minutes,  and  serve  in  the  shells  with 
a  dish  of  brown  bread  and  butter. 

64.  Oyster  Patties. 

Cut  the  beards  off  two  dozen  oysters  and  boil 
them  (the  beards)  in  a  little  water  till  all  goodness 
is  extracted,  and  then  take  out  the  beards  and 
scald  the  oysters  which  have  been  j^reviously  cut 
into  three  pieces,  add  to  them  a  i)iece  of  butter, 
about  tw^o  ounces,  a  wine  glass  full  of  cream, 
a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  some  salt,  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  little  white  pepper  ;  let  it  l)oil  about 
five  niinutes,  and  when  you  remove  it  from  the 
tire  pour  in  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Make 
tlie  patties  as  follows: — Line  some  small  patty- 
pans with  puff  paste,  and  put  into  each  a  piece 
of  bread,  cover  with  paste  and  bake  of  a  light 
brown,  when  done  take  a  thin  slice  off  the  top, 
then  with  a  spoon  take  out  the  bread  and  the 
inside  paste,  leaving  the  outside  quite  entire,  and 
fill  the  patties  with  the  prepared  oysters. 

65.  Lobster  Patties. 

Prepare  the  paste  as  in  the  previous  recipe, 
then  chop  all  the  meat  out  of  a  boiled  lobster  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  of  the  coral 
and  spawn  finely  pounded,  add  an  ounce  of 
butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  some  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  a  little  anchovy  sauce,  and  a  little 
lemon  juice ;  warm  all  together  and  thicken, 
if  required,  with  a  little  flour;  fill  the  patties  and 
bake. 


a 


32  D/SHES  OF  F/SH, 

66.  To  Pot  Lobsters. 
Take  the  meat  out  of  four  lohsteis,  season 
it  with  j)ei)i)er,  salt,  and  nutine)"^:  put  it  iulo 
a  jnr  with  oue  pouud  of  butter  over  it,  also  some 
of  the  spawn  and  coral  to  cover  the  butter ;  tie  a 
pap(T  over  the  jar.  and  hake  it  half  an  liour,  tlieu 
take  out  the  meat  and  put  it  into  four  potting 
pots,  take  the  butter  in  which  it  was  baked  clean 
from  the  j^ravy,  warm  it  and  ])our  it  over  the 
lobsters;  if  this  is  not  enouu^h,  clarify  a  little  more, 
as  it  must  be  covered  well  witli  the  hutter. 

67.  Preserved  Lobster. 

To  eight  pounds  of  picked  lohster,  add  two 
pounds  of  salt  butter,  one  quart  of  best  vinegar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ground  white  pei)per,  two 
tahlespoonfuls  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne.  Let  these  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour, 
then  pour  into  jars.  Next  day  place  thin  paper 
over  the  lohster,  and  over  that  pour  a  little 
melted  suet  nearly  cold,  cover  it  well  down  with  a 
bladder,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place.  Each  jar 
should  contain  only  suflicient  lohster  for  a  dish,  as 
the  tish  is  apt  to  spoil  hy  exposure  to  the  air.  If 
too  great  a  quantity  of  vinegar  is  mentioned  put 
less. 

68.  Lobster  Salad. 

Take  the  meat  out  of  the  hody  of  a  fine  lobster 
and  mix  it  with  a  dressed  salad  of  lettuce,  onions, 
endive,  &c.  ;  take  the  meat  from  the  claws  and 
tail,  cut  it  into  nice  pieces  and  heap  it  in  the 
centre  of  the  salad,  sprinkle  the  coral  and  spawn 
over  all.  and  garnish  with  slices  of  cucumber, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  and  heetroot,  placed  alternately 
round  the  dish. 


DJSHES  OF  FISH,  33 

69.  Fish  Saut^. 

FRENCH  RECIPE. 

Take  fillets  of  soles,  turbot,  or  almost  any  fish» 
dip  them  in  V)eaten  egg^  finely  chopped  herbs,  and 
bread  crumbs,  fry  them,  then  drain  on  blottin<^ 
paj)er,  and  serve  either  witli  mai^re  gravy  in  the 
same  dish  or  sauce  separately  served. 

70.  Fish  in  a  Shape. 

Chop  some  previously  dressed  fish  and  some 
hard-boiled  eg<j:s,  add  the  same  quantity  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  nutmeg,  white 
pepper,  and  anchovy  sauce,  also  a  few  chopped 
capers;  mix  it  up  with  an  egg  or  two,  put  it  into 
a  buttered  mould  or  basin,  do  not  quite  fill  it,  but 
finish  with  some  finely-mashed  potatoes,  and  put 
it  into  the  oven  for  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  or  rather  less  ;  turn  it  out.  It  can  be  eaten 
either  hot  or  cold, 

71.  Fish  on  Toast 

Slice  some  ready-dressed  fish  and  take  out  the 
bones,  if  you  can  do  so  without  breaking  the  slices. 
Dip  the  fish  in  oiled  butter,  pepper  and  salt  it,  and 
place  each  slice  upon  a  piece  of  buttered  toast ; 
sift  over  them  some  giated  cheese  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  brown ; 
garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve. 

72.  Sliced  Fish. 

Cut  a  thick  slice  of  fish;  cod,  turbot,  or  any 
thick  fish  will  do,  press  into  it  a  little  forcemeat, 
made  with  parsley,  lemon  peel,  seasoning,  bread 
crumbs,  and  egg,  dip  the  slice  of  fish  into  beaten 

c 


34  DISHES  OF  FISH. 

ei,^^  and  bread  crumbs,  aud  try  on  both  sides  of  a 
licrbl  brown.  Rahnon  may  be  cookcnl  tliis  way, 
but  lliere  must  tbeu  be  a  few  slirimps  in  llie 
fbrcemeai. 

73.  Roasted  Eel. 

Choose  rather  a  hw^^Q  eel,  stuff  it  with  shrimps, 
biea*!  crumbs,  ])eppei-  and  salt,  <fec.,  sew  it  uj)  and 
curl  round  the  tail  into  its  mouth.  Roast  before 
the  fire,  basting  fiequently  with  butter;  serve 
with  caper  sauce  poured  over  it. 

74.  Stewed  Eels. 

Skin  two  or  three  pounds  of  (»els.  cut  them  in 
pieces  about  two  inches  in  length,  put  th(Mn  into 
a  saucepan  with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them, 
|)epper  and  salt,  a  hunch  of  parsley,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pomid  of  butter.  Simmer  for  about  half  an 
hour,  or  until  the  eels  are  tender,  take  out  the 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  add  some  very  finely 
chopped,  mix  a  tablespooniul  of  flour  with  three 
of  cream,  thicken  the  gravy  witli  this,  add  a  little 
cayenne;  boil  up  and  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice 
into  it  just  before  serving. 

75.  To  Cook  Crawfish. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  some  water,  salt,  pepper, 
viaegar,  parsley,  onions,  thyme,  and  bay  leaves; 
when  the  water  boils  throw  in  the  fish,  and  when 
they  are  red  they  are  done.  Let  them  cool,  and 
serve,  garnishing  with  parsley.  The  li(]Uor  in 
which  the  crawfish  ha^  l)ecn  boiled  will  make 
good  fish  stock. 


DISHES  OF  F/Sh.  35 

76.  Scalloped  Fish  with  Potatoes. 

Separate  from  the  bones  any  remains  of  cod 
fish  which  have  previously  been  cooked,  have  ready 
^ome  mashed  potatoes,  and  mix  the  pieces  of 
fish  with  it.  then  put  this  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
good  hinip  of  butter,  a  little  Harvey,  Worcester, 
or  Ki^ading  sauce,  or  some  of  each,  and  i)epper 
and  salt  to  taste,  warm  it  up,  and  then  place  it  in 
scallop  shells,  s[)rinkle  a  tew  bread  crumbs  over 
each,  and  a  little  piece  of  butter.  Put  the  shells 
in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  fish  is  slightly 
browned,  then  send  to  table. 

77.  Fish  Rissoles. 

Take  the  remains  ot  any  cold  fish,  such  as  cod, 
soles,  <fec.  Pick  it  to  pieces  with  two  forks,  being 
careful  not  to  have  any  bones.  Put  this  into  a 
basin,  and  supposing  the  quantity  of  iish  to  be  a 
breakfast  cuptul,  add  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of 
bread  crumbs,  a  teaspooniul  of  chopped  [)arsley, 
a  little  chopped  lemon  thyme,  some  grated  lemon 
peel,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  butter  or 
dri[)ping.  Stir  all  up  together,  and  mix  into  little 
flat  cakes  with  an  e^g  well  beaten  up.  Fry  of  a  light 
brown  in  butter  or  dripping,  and  serve  on  a  dish 
with  melted  butter  poured  round  them,  with  a 
little  anchovy  or  Harvey  sauce  as  may  be  pre- 
fei'red. 

78.  Anchovy  Sandwiches. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter; 
spread  a  little  anchovy  paste  or  sauce  upon  them, 
and  cover  with  slices  of  bread  and  butter.  A  very 
little  potted  bloater,  used  instead  of  anchovies, 
uiMke  excellent  sandwiches. 


36  DISHFS  OF  F/SH. 

79.  Anchovy  Toast. 
Fry  pome  thin  slices  of  1)1(8(1  i'ti  either  drippiiior 
(>r  l)ntter.     Spread  over  them  some  aucliovv  {)aste, 
.ind   send   to  taMe  very  hot.     Anchovy  sance  will 
answer  tlie  purpose  if  the  paste  is  not  at  hand. 

80.  Fish  and  Rice  Croquettes. 

Pick  to  pieces  some  cold  fish,  the  Ram(^  qn;m- 
tity  as  for  the  rissoles,  carefully  l(\Mviui]^  oni  ilie 
bones.  Add  two  or  three  tal)lesp(K)ntuls  of  W(»ll 
boiled  rice,  a  IHth  onion  previously  chopped  and 
fried,  an  ounce  ot  hntter,  a  liitle  sni^ar,  pepper  and 
Bait  to  tiiste,  a  crratiuE:  of  nntmej^:,  a  little  anchovy 
sauce,  and  a  f(»w  bread  cruiiihs.  Warm  this  over 
the  fire,  then  add  one  or  two  yolks  of  <»«:<rs  In^aten 
up  ;  mix  well  ;  make  it  up  into  halls  and  fry  them, 
and  serve  with  mash(Ml  potatoes. 

81.  To  Cook  Bloaters  or  Herrings. 

Open  the  fish.  Wash  it  and  take  out  the  h.ick 
bone,  and  as  many  of  the  other  Ixmes  as  possible. 
Drv  the  tish,  })epper  it,  and  fry  it  on  both  sides  in 
butter. 

82.  To  dress  Smoked  Haddocks. 

Wash  it,  and  h^avc*  it  to  so.ik  for  about  half  an 
hour  in  wnrm  water;  hoil  it  in  milk  and  watfT  for 
ten  minutes,  place  it  in  a  dish,  put  a  little  butter 
on  it,  and  pepper  it. 

83.  Mayonnaise  of  Fish. 

FRFA'CH   RKCIPE. 

Take  some  flakes  of  cold,  hut  previously  dressed 
codfish,     and     some     previously    dressed     salmon. 


DISHES  OF  FJSH,  37 

Arrange  a  few  flakes  of  each  alternately  round  a 
flat  dish,  and  pour  in  iiiayounaiHe  sauce  in  the 
middle. 

84.  Caviare. 

This  is  sold  in  canisters,  and  can  be  eaten 
spread  upon  bread  and  butter,  or  upon  buttered 
toast. 

85.  Scotch  Woodcock. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eg^^s  with  a  table- 
si)uonful  of  cream,  and  warm  it  in  a  saucepau 
until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  lei  it  boil.  Add  a 
little  cayenne  pepper  and  lemon  peel.  Pound 
some  anchovies  to  a  paste,  and  spread  the  paste  on 
hot  buttered  toast  cut  in  rather  small  slices.  Pour 
the  mixture  oi  cream  and  eggs  over  tiiem,  aud 
serve. 

86.  Fish  Salad. 

FRKNCH    RKCIPE. 

Make  a  salad  of  lettuce  in  the  usual  way, 
dressed  with  oil,  vinegar,  pepper  Mid  salt,  &c. 
Have  ready  a  sole  previously  fried,  and  quite  cold. 
Cut  it  up  in  pieces  about  an  inch  square  ;  put  these 
pieces  of  tish  into  the  salad,  mix  well,  and  serve. 

87.  Baked  Fish  to  be  eaten  Cold. 

For  eaten  cold,  the  tish  should  be  baked  in 
equal  quantities  of  vinegar  and  water  and  well 
seasoned,  and  [)laced  dry  on  a  disli  with  garnishes 
of  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  &c. 

88.  Fish  Omelette. 

Beat  up  five  or  six  eggs,  yolks  and  white,  add 
pepper  and  salt,  and  some  chopped  cold  fish.  Mix 
well,  and  try  in  butter. 


38  DISHES  OF  FISH. 

89.  Another  Fish  Omelette. 

Warm  some  previously  dressed  fish  in  a 
Baucepan,  with  a  little  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Make  a  plain  e<:g  omelette.  Just  before  yon  fold 
it  over  place  the  warmed  fish  upon  it  as  you  place 
the  jam  in  an  oiuelttte  aux  covjitures. 

90.  Oyster  Omelette. 

Add  to  three  well  beaten  e<2:^8  a  tablespoonfui 
of  cream,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  some  chopped 
paisley,  twelve  oysters  (each  to  be  cut  in  four 
pi(  (•(  s  and  blanched),  and  a  little  nutmeg.  lUat 
thet>e  iijgrrdi.  Ills  well  to^rflxr  nnd  fry  iu  butter. 

91.  Cheese  Omelette. 

lieat  up  the  e\i^^  as  for  another  omelette, 
addin.i^  pepj)er  and  salt,  but  no  herbs,  and  pour  it 
into  tlie  boilin<x  butter  wiiich  is  in  the  fryin^j^-pan, 
and  then  sprinkle  over  it  some  Gruyere  or  Par- 
mesan cheese  either  finely  chopped  or  «^rated. 

92.  Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes. 

FKENCH    RECIPE. 

Beat  five  eggs  with  salt,  pepj>er,  some  little 
bits  of  butter,  a  little  water,  and  a  little  milk. 
Add  some  parsley,  chives,  and  spring  onions 
clioj^ped  fine.  Btat  altogether  for  some  mirnites. 
Have  ready  a  large  piecv  of  butter,  two  or  three 
ounces,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  the  butter  boils 
pour  the  mixture  in.  When  it  will  just  hold 
together,  double  it  up,  like  a  turn-over,  and  put  it 
in  a  dish.     The  inside  should  be  liquid. 


yARlOUS  METHODS  OF  COOKING  EGGS.         39 

93.  Red  Herring  Omelette. 

Prepnre  the  omelette  as  in  the  preceding 
recipe,  bnt  instead  of  placing  onions  upon  it,  have 
Bonie  chopped  herring,  and  put  that  upon  the 
omelette,  told  over  as  before  and  serve.  The  salt 
ought  to  be  omitted  in  this  omelette. 

94.  Onion  Omelette. 

Beat  u{)  four  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
it  into  a  frying-pan  in  which  you  have  some  boiling 
butter ;  when  it  is  sufficiently  cooked  to  dish  up, 
Bpread  over  it  more  chopped  and  fried  onion,  fold 
it  over  and  place  it  on  a  dish. 


VARIOUS    METHODS    OF   COOKING 
EGGS. 


95.  A  French  way  of  Serving  Eggs. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard,  have  ready  one  egg 
not  boiled  quite  as  much  as  the  rest,  but  with  the 
yolk  quite  set,  mix  up  this  yolk  with  salt,  pepper, 
a  tablespoonful  of  oil,  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar.  Cut  the  four  hard  eggs  into  islices, 
whites  and  yolks,  and  serve  with  the  above  sauce 
poured  over  them. 


40         VARIOUS  METHODS  OF  COOKING  £GGS. 

96.  Another  French  way  of  Serving  Eggs. 

Boil  some  eixgfi  hard  and  cut  them  in  slices 
whilst  they  are  hot,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  send 
to  table  with  hot  melted  hntter.  in  which  you 
liMve  put  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  i)oured  over 
them. 

97.  Egg  Patties. 

Boil  four  Oi:<;s  hard  ;  when  cold,  choj)  them 
very  small,  mix  with  them  a  liflle  onion  and  some 
parsley  minced  fine,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  little  cream.  Have  ready  your  paste,  prepared 
as  for  oyster  pjitties.  and  till  with  this  mixture. 
Bake  in  a  quick  ov(mi. 

98.  Buttered  Eggs. 

Beat  up  four  ei^p^s,  yolks  and  whites,  add 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  have  ready  in  a  saucepan 
one  ounce  or  more  of  butter,  when  the  butter 
boils,  j)our  in  the  e^^ij^n  ;  let  this  simmer  on  a  slow 
fire,  stirring  it  from  the  bottom  all  the  time  with 
a  spoon  until  it  is  all  cooked  ;  it  must  be  in  lumps 
without  any  liquid,  but  not  dry.  Serve  very  hot 
ou  buttered  toast. 


99.  Pickled  Eggs. 

Boil  twelve  et;^s  tor  about  t(»n  minutes,  leave 
them  until  they  are  cold,  and  then  take  otl'  tlie 
shells;  take  a  quart  of  vineirar  and  put  it  wiih  an 
ounce  of  black  i)epper  and  a  few  peppercorns,  and 
a  little  ground  ginger  into  a  saucepnn,  and  let  it 


VARIOUS  METHODS  OF  COOKING  EGGS.         4 1 

boil  for  five  or  ten  niiniites.  Put  the  eggs  whole 
into  ajar  and  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  them, 
and  wlien  cold  tie  down  with  a  bladder.  The  jar 
should  be  full  of  vinegar.  The  pickle  will  be  ready 
in  a  few  weeks. 

100.  Eggs  in  Jelly. 

To  a  pint  of  maigre  gravy,  add  half  an  ounce  of 
gelatine,  or  isinghiss,  wmin  gradually  until  the 
isinglass  or  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Have  ready 
some  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  some  in  slices  and 
leave  the  rest  whole,  or  merely  cut  in  halves. 
Pnt  them  into  a  mould  and  strain  the  jelly  (which 
must  be  cool)  over  them,  until  the  mould  is  full, 
or  you  may  put  half  the  quantity  of  eggs,  and 
half  fill  the  mould,  and  leave  it  for  two  hours, 
until  the  jelly  has  quite  set,  and  then  put  the 
remainder  of  the  eggs,  and  fill  it  up  with  the  rest 
of  the  gravy  ;  if  this  plan  is  adopted,  the  second 
quantity  of  jelly  must  only  be  warm  enough  to 
adhere  to  that  first  poured  in. 

101.  Mushrooms  and  Eggs. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  slices,  fry 
a  tew  button  nuishrooms,  and  two  large  onions 
cut  in  thin  slices;  put  into  a  small  stewpan  two 
ounces  of  butter,  a  little  mustard,  some  eschalot 
vinegar,  and  pepper  and  salt;  when  this  is  hoiling, 
put  in  the  mushrooms  and  onions,  and  let  them 
simmer  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  sliced 
yolks,  but  let  them  only  cook  for  about  a  minute, 
for  fear  they  break.  Serve  very  hot,  and  garnish 
with  curled  parsley,  and  a  few  light  rings  of  the 
white  of  the  eo:<^s. 


42         VARIOUS  METHODS  OF  COOKING  EGGS, 

102.  Scalloped  Eggs. 

B(>il  four  or  five  eu<^s  for  eii^ht  minutes,  lenve 
tlieni  to  cool,  tlien  remove  the  shells  and  chop 
it  up,  hut  not  too  small.  Have  ready  some 
mashed  potatoes  (ahout  a  teacupful),  and  the  same 
quantity  of  well-hoiled  rice;  mix  these  ingredients 
toij^ether,  add  a  few  capers  finely  choppecl,  a  very 
little  vin(\£:ar,  and  some  melted  hutter,  with 
pe])per  and  salt  to  taste,  also  a  little  Worcester 
sauce.  Put  this  mixture  into  scallop  shells  with 
a  few  l)read  crumhs  a  little  hutter  over  each,  an<l 
})ak('  in  the  oven  of  a  li«j:ht  hrown. 

103.  Baked  Eggs. 

Put  a  dish  into  th(»  oven  and  make  it  quite 
liot.  then  hutter  it  W(H,  hreak  an  ejrjJ^  into  a  cup 
and  place  it  on  the  dish  carefully,  so  as  not  to 
hreak  it,  then  hreak  another  and  put  tliat  on 
the  dish,  mitil  you  have  as  many  as  you  re(par(\ 
Place  tlie  dish  in  the  oven,  to  set  the  e«i:gs,  and 
tlien  serve.  E^xgR  are  frequently  dressed  this  way 
in  France,  and  are  quite  as  <;ood  as  poached  etj^fi^s, 
}ind  nuK'li  more  easily  eookcMl  ;  tliey  nmst  he  sent 
to  tahle  on  the  same  dish  they  aie  l(H)ked  on. 

104.  Inverness  Eggs. 

Boil  six  egjrs  hard,  and  wlien  cold,  take  off  the 
shells,  hut  leave  the  white,  make  some  forcemeat 
with  parsley,  thyme,  hread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt, 
drippini:  or  hutter,  and  a  little  chopped  anchovy, 
and  mix  with  a  heat -up  e<]^g,  cover  the  hard 
eL^crs  with  this  forcemeat,  roll  them  in  flour,  fry 
a  litdit  hrown,  and  serve  with  a  '' maii^re  '  irravy 
poured  round  them. 


CHEESE.  43 

105.  Egg  Sandwiches. 

Boil  Bome  eggs  hard,  and  put  thein  into  cold 
water,  cut  some  lliin  slices  of  bread  and  butter, 
and  when  the  eggs  are  cold,  remove  the  shells,  cut 
the  eggs  also  into  sh'ces,  and  put  them  between  the 
bread  and  butter  as  in  ordinary  sandwiches,  adding 
salt  and  pepper  if  approved. 

106.  Poached  Eggs  on  Rice. 

Boil  rice  as  for  currie,  lay  poached  eg^s  on  the 
rice,  and  serve  with  cold  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 


CHEESE. 


107.  Fromage  Fondue. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  add  a  teacupful  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  oil  an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  pour  this  to  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  well, 
and  season  to  taste.  Beat  on  a  plate,  with  a  knife, 
the  whites  of  five  eggs  for  some  minutes,  and  add 
them  to  the  mixture,  and  then  pour  all  into  a 
fondue  dish  to  bake.  The  dish  should  not  be 
filled,  as  the  fondue  rises  very  much.  Send  it  to 
table  as  soon  as  it  is  cooked. 


44  CHEESE, 

108.  Cfheese  Ramakins. 

Grate  1ml f  a  pound  of  rich  cheese,  and  put  it 
into  a  basin  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  huttcr,  and 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eii:<rs.  Boil  two 
ounces  of  light  bread  (roll  is  best),  without  crust, 
in  a  little  cream  until  soft,  and  put  it  to  the  cheese, 
&c.  Add  as  much  of  the  whites  of  e^gs,  well 
beaten,  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste.  Mix  it  well, 
and  pour  into  little  tins  or  pans,  and  bake  for 
about  ten  minutes. 

109.  Macaroni  Cheese. 

Wasli  a  qiuirter  of  a  pound,  or  rather  more,  of 
macaroni.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  sufficient 
hot  milk  to  cover  it,  and  a  little  salt.  Let  it  l)oil 
mitil  tender,  adding  boilinu:  water  as  the  milk 
boils  away,  then  strain  it  off  and  put  it  into  a  ])ie 
dish.  Mix  with  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
grated  cheese  (Parmesan  is  considered  the  best), 
and  two  ounces  of  butter.  Grate  a  little  cheese 
over  the  top  of  it,  then  put  some  bread  crumbs 
and  spread  over  it  some  small  pieces  of  butter, 
and  bake  in  an  oven.  It  may  be  browned  with  a 
Hidamander. 

110.  Stewer^  Cheese. 

Cut  some  cheese  very  thir  .  lay  it  on  a  plate, 
put  it  before  the  fire,  pour  a  <j:lass  of  ale  over  it, 
and  let  it  stand  until  it  is  like  a  light  custard, 
then  pour  it  on  toast. 

111.  Baked  Cheese. 

R'at  up  four  eggs,  add  to  them  half  a  |)ound 
of  grated  cheese,  a  wine  glass  fidl  of  cream,  and 


CHEESE.  45 

one  ounce  of  oiled  butter;  beat  nil  together,  and 
pour  into  a  buttered  disli,  and  bnke  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour. 

112.  Welsh  Rabbit  or  Rare-bit. 

Cut  sorae  rich  cheese  in  thin  slices,  and  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  ale.  Have  ready  some  pieces 
of  hot  toast ;  and  when  the  cheese  and  other  in^i^re- 
dients  are  well  mixed,  pour  them  boiling  upon  the 
toast. 

113.  Potted  Cheese. 

Put  into  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  rich  cheese, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  a  blade  of  mace,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  sufficient  sherry  to  make  the 
whole  into  a  paste.  Press  it  into  a  jar  and  cover 
close. 

114.  Roasted  Cheese. 

Beat  up  three  yolks  of  eggs,  and  add  a  break- 
fastcupt'ul  of  bread  crumbs,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  grated  cheese,  with  a  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  mustard,  and  a  little  i)epper  and  salt.  Have 
ready  sorae  slices  of  toasted  bread,  lay  the  cheese 
mixture  upon  them.  Let  them  get  hot  through  in 
the  oven,  and  browm  with  a  salamander. 


115.  Cheese  Toast 

Butter  some  liot  toast  with  plenty  of  butter. 
Add  a  little  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  grate 
Parmesan  cheese  upon  it. 


VEGETABLES. 


116.  Irish  Stew  without  Meat 

Pec'l,  and  cut  in  thick  slices,  six  larore  potatoes; 
put  them  into  tlnee  ]>ints  of  water  witli  an  onion 
also  sliced,  and  two  oniices  of  bntter  with  pi^ppiM* 
and  salt.  L'*t  tliis  stew  till  the  potatoes  and  onions 
ar<'  cooked,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  Reading  or 
Worcester  sance,  and  serve. 

117.  A  Pretty  Dish  of  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Put  very  hi^h  into  a  veii;(»Uil)K»  disli  some  well 
mashed  polatix^s;  put  them  in  roughly  as  they  fall 
from  the  spoon  ;  do  not  smooth  them.  Then  at  the 
hase  of  them  j)ui  alternately  slices  of  hard  boiled 
e^gs.  and  hot  beetroot  also  sliced.  Brown  the  top 
ol  the  potatoes  with  a  salamander  and  serve. 

118.  Potatoes  Escalloped. 

Mash  some  {X)tatoes  with  milk,  bntter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Butter  some  shells  or  patty  |)ans.  Put 
in  the  {HjLaloes,  smooth  them  over,  sprinkle  a  few 
bread  crumbs  on  the  top,  and  add  a  few  pieces  of 
butter.     Brown  them  in  the  oven. 

119.  Another  Way. 

M:ush  some  potatoes  as  in  previous  recipe. 
Add  some  sweet  herbs,  a  little  chopped  onion,  a 
little  chopped  eschalot,  and  a  little  <i;rated  nutmeg. 
Mix  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egi^^  and  bake  as 
before. 


VEGETABLES.  47 

120.  Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Wash  some  potatoes  and  boil  them  with  their 
skins  on,  and  when  sufficiently  cooked  peel  and 
cut  them  in  thick  slices;  put  a  piece  of  butter  (a 
quarter  of  a  pound  for  a  large  dish  of  potatoes) 
into  a  saucepan  with  some  chopped  parsley,  a 
little  chopped  chives,  salt  and  pepper  ;  boil  these 
ingredients  together  and  put  in  the  potatoes,  when 
they  are  quite  hot  through,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  serve. 

121.  Fried  Potatoes. 

Cut  some  raw  potatoes  into  thin  slices  and  fry 
them  in  butter  or  dripping,  when  brown  and  crisp, 
put  them  on  blotting  paper  to  drain,  and  then 
serve  them. 

122.  Puree  of  Potatoes. 

FRENCH  RECIPE. 

Peel  and  cut  some  potatoes  into  pieces,  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  milk,  water,  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  also  an  onion  cut 
in  pieces ;  boil  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  and  beat 
all  together  with  a  fork  until  smooth. 

123-  Rissoles  of  Potatoes. 

Have  ready  some  mashed  potatoes,  add  sorue 
])ickle6  (gherkins  or  cucumber  is  the  best)  chopped 
fine,  also  some  minced  parsley,  and  pep[)er  and 
salt;  make  this  up  into  small  balls  witli  an  i}\;g, 
roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  dripping  or 
butter.  Place  them  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with 
curled  parsley. 


48  VEGETABLES. 

124   Potato  Cakes. 

Masli  8()nie  potatoes  cither  with  dripping  or 
butter,  add  a  little  salt  and  milk,  and  an  egg  well 
beaten,  mix  into  a  jiaste,  place  it  on  pasteboard, 
roll  out  into  cakes  al)out  the  size  of  pancakes,  but 
rather  thicker,  flour  both  sides  well  and  fry  in 
butter  or  dripping.  N.B. — The  egg  may  be 
omitted,  and  then  they  must  i)e  made  rather 
nmaller,  or  they  may  break. 

125.  Potato  Salad. 

Hoil  eight  or  ten  potatoes,  and  when  cold  rut 
them  into  rather  thick  slices,  put  them  into  a  saLid 
bowl  with  a  few  watercresses,  or  a  little  lettuce  cut 
up;  pour  over  this  two  tablespoon fuls  of  oil  and 
one  of  vinegar,  and  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Chop|>ed  parsley  is  by  some  thought  an  improve- 
ment. 

126.  Potatoes  with  Milk. 

Boil,  peel,  and  cut  some  potatoes  in  slices,  then 
put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  some  parsley  and 
green  onions,  chopped  fine;  and  some  milk,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

127.  Stewed  Green  Peas. 

FHKNCH    RKCIPE. 

Wa.sh  a  lettuce,  cut  it  up,  and  put  it  into  a 
Baucepan  with  a  quart  of  peas,  a  sliced  onion,  a 
litile  chopped  mint,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt.  No  water.  Stew  these  vegetables  for 
two  iiours  very  gently,  stining  often  to  prevent 
their  burm'ng.  When  sullicientiy  cooked  stir  in 
a  little  butter  and  tlour 


VEGE  TABLES.  49 

128.  Cape  Cabbage. 

Tnke  a  lar^e  white  cabbnge,  wash  it  well,  and 
cut  it  up  as  if  for  pickling.  Wash  a  breakfast- 
cupful  of  good  rice.  Put  a  layer  of  cabbage  into 
a  SMUcepan,  then  a  layer  of  rice,  and  a  little  ])epper 
and  salt.  Continue  these  layers  alternately  ;  on  the 
top,  ])ut  a  large  piece  of  dripping  (about  a  quarter 
of  a  pound),  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water.  Let 
it  stew  gently,  and  after  it  once  boils,  the  saucepan 
should  be  placed  by  the  side  of  the  fire.  Wlien 
ready  to  serv(\  the  water  should  be  thoroughly 
absorbed,  and  the  vegetables  tender  and  moist. 

129.  Stewed  Cabbage. 

Wash  and  boil  the  cabbage  in  water  witli  a 
little  salt.  When  soft,  take  it  out  and  press  all 
the  water  from  it.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
some  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  grating  of  nutmeg, 
and  a  spoonful  of  flbur  mix<'d  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  cream.     Let  it  stew  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

130.  Cabbage  Salad. 

Boil  a  savoy  cal)})age  in  wat(M-,  drain  it,  and 
dress  it  as  you  would  a  salad,  with  salt,  pepper, 
some  Provence  oil,  and  vinegar,  adding  one  or  two 
anchovies,  and  a  few  capers.  It  may  be  served 
either  hot  or  cold. 

131.  Cauliflowers  with  White  Sauce. 

Wash  the  CR\\\\Q.o\\ex^  thoroicghly .  and  put  then> 
in  boiling  wattM-  with  a  good   piece  of  salt.     Let 
them  boil   till   tender,   and   take  carefully  out  of 
'  D 


50  VEGETABLES, 

tlie  PMncepan  with  a  slice.  Have  ready  a  nance 
made  as  follows:  —  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
with  three  tahlespoonfuls  of  water  very  smoothly, 
and  put  this  into  a  saucepan  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  half  a  spoon- 
ful of  vinegar.  Boil  until  it  thickens.  Place  the 
cauliflowers  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them. 

KB  All  vegetables,  especially  <^reen  ones 
fwilh  the  exception  of  peas),  should  be  washed  in 
warm  not  hot  water,  as  by  this  means  the  dirt  is 
easily  removed,  and  the  ve*^etal)le  is  freed  from 
shifts  or  insects,  but  tliey  ou<^ht  to  lay  for  some 
time  afterwards  in  cold  water.  Watercresses  are 
much  better  if  washed  in  this  manner. 

132.  A  French  Way  of  Cooking  Beans. 

Take  some  French  beans  or  scarlet  rumiers, 
cut  them  quite  across  in  j)iece8  about  an  inch  long, 
not  slifling  tliem  as  is  usually  done.  Boil  them 
in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them  with  a  little  salt 
and  a  good  lump  of  butter.  \\  hen  tender,  strain 
them  and  leave  them  until  they  are  cold,  tlnii 
serve  them  with  vinegar  and  oil. 

133.  Boiled  Haricot  Beans. 

FRKNOH  RKCIPK. 

Wash  a  pint  of  beans,  and,  if  dry  ones,  leave 
them  to  soak  for  two  or  three  hours,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucej)aii  with  cold  water.  If  they  are 
young  and  fresh,  they  must  be  put  into  boiling 
water.       In  either  case  they  nuist  simmer   very 


VEGETABLES.  5 1 

slowly  until  tender,  and  then  the  water  nnist  be 
drained  from  them.  Add  two  ounces  of  butter, 
a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Shake  the  saucepnn  over  the 
fire,  80  that  the  butter,  &c.,  may  be  \vell  mixed, 
and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  just  before 
servinor. 


134   Haricots  Stewed  with  Onions. 

FRENCH  RIOCIPE. 

Fry  about  half  a  dozen  small  onions  cut  in  slices, 
or  chopped,  if  they  are  small  spring  onions,  and 
then  the  green  part  of  the  onion  can  be  used  Put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  water,  butter,  a  little 
Reading  or  Worcester  sauce,  and  pepper  and  salt. 
Boil  lialf  a  pint  of  haricots,  and  when  almost 
cooked,  drain  them  from  the  water  and  add  them 
to  the  onions,  &c.,  thicken  with  a  little  flour. 
Simmer  caretully  until  the  haricots  are  quite  soft, 
and  serve  verv  hot. 


135.  An  Excellent  Way  to  Cook 
Spinach. 

Boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  until  it  is  quite 
tender.  Turn  it  into  a  colander.  Let  the  tap  run 
on  it  until  the  water  which  runs  through  the 
spinach  looks  clear.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  about 
the  size  of  an  ^g^  into  a  small  saucepan,  and  let 
it  boil.  Have  ready  some  s])ring  onions  cut  very 
small,  and  brow^n  them  in  the  butter.  Chop  the 
spinach   and  put  it  into  a  stewpan,    adding  the 


52  VEGETABLES, 

onions  juid  butter.  Slew  alto^i^etlier  for  some 
time,  stirring  constantly  for  fear  of  hnrning;  add 
peppei-  and  salt  to  taste.  ^Fiie  tureen  part  of  tlie 
onion  should  be  used  as  well  as  tlie  wliite,  and 
half  a  teacnpful  of  the  chopped  onion  will  be 
snlHc'i(Mit  tor  a  lar<]^e  dish  of  spinach. 

N.B.   It  is  of  consequence  that  plenty  of   water 
shr^uld  run  thnmr^h  the  spinach,  as  this  washes  liie 


13G.  Colcannon. 

Take  the  renuiins  of  cold  hoiied  potatoes  and 
}^n»ens,  ch(>p  them  very  tine,  put  them  into  a 
'ryini;-pan  with  a  little  butter  or  drippin*^,  and 
pei)per  and  salt.  Continue  to  chop  them  whilst 
tliey  are  fryin*^,  and  turning  them  over  until  they 
are  tlioroughly  hot,  then  press  them  down  wiih 
a  fork  until  th(»  under  side  is  brown,  and  turn  into 
a  dish  in  a  Hat  cake. 


137.  Stewed  Lettuce. 

Wash  and  boil  them  ifi  h(»iling  water  with 
some  salt.  When  done,  press  the  water  out  and 
ch<>p  them  up.  then  put  iIhmu  into  a  stewpan  wiih 
some  butter,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a  little  siilt  and 
pepper,  and  eiVAer  vinegar  or  a  lillle  cieaiu.  Su*w 
for  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 


138   Stewed  Carrots. 

Wash   and  scrape   some   carrots,   boil    them  for 
about  half   an  hour,  with    a  piece  of   dripping  in 


VEGETABLES.  53 

the  water  which  will  soften  them,  but  they  must 
not  be  cooked  sufficiently  for  eating  ;  take  them  out, 
cut  them  in  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  little  water,  choj)ped  parsley,  some  finely 
cho{)ped  onions,  one  fried  onion,  a  piece  of  butter, 
or  dripping,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer 
very  carefully  that  the  carrots  may  not  be  bioken, 
and  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  flour. 


139.  Stewed  Cucumber. 

Peel  and  slice  a  cucumber.  It  ought  to  be  cut 
in  tliick  slices.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan.  Add 
salt  and  ])epper,  an  onion  sliced,  and  a  piece  of 
butter.  Simmer  very  slowly,  and  before  serving, 
add  a  little  flour  and  butter,  or  some  maigre 
gravy. 


140.  Stewed  Celery. 

Wash  two  or  three  heads  in  rather  warm 
water,  that  they  may  be  entirely  freed  from  dirt 
and  insects.  Cut  them  into  lengths  of  four  or 
five  inches.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  water, 
and  let  them  stew  till  tender.  Mix  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  into  a  cup  of  cream.  Add  a  little  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Boil  this  in  a  separate 
saucepan.  Take  the  celery  out  of  the  other 
saucepan,  and  put  it,  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the 
water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  into  the  butter,  and 
simmer  altogether  for  five  minutes. 


54  VEGFTABLRS. 

141.  Globe  Artichokes. 

FRENCH. 

Wash  tli(^  artic'liokea  in  warm  water  and  salt, 
HO  tliat  all  dirt  and  insects  may  he  removed,  and 
then  let  them  lay  in  fresh  warm  water  for  half  an 
honr  ;  have  ready  a  sancepan  of  hoilinij^  water,  pnt 
the  artichokes  into  it.  Add  a  large  piece  of  salt, 
ani  i>oil  until  the  vegetahles  are  tender,  which  you 
can  ascertain  by  puUing  one  of  the  leaves  off;  the 
time  reqnired  to  cook  them  varies,  some  are  done 
in  half  an  honr,  others  re(jnire  an  hour's  boiling. 
Sirvc  with  good  melted  butter. 

142.  Baked  Tomatoes. 

Cut  tomatoefl  into  thin  slices,  and  place  a  layer 
of  tlnin  in  a  pie  dish,  spriidde  them  with  bread 
crumbs,  salt  and  pepjHM-  to  taste,  and  a  few  pieces 
of  butter,  then  place  another  layer  of  t()mato(\s 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  hutter,  as  before  ;  do  this 
until  the  pie  dish  is  fidl,  finishing  with  l)read 
crumbs.  Put  the  pie  dish  into  rather  a  slow  oven, 
•ind  hake  tor  half  an  honr,  or  rather  Ioniser.  Tliis 
is  a  most  delicious  wav  ot  cooking  tomabx^s. 


143.  Tomato  Dumplings. 

Choose  well  ripened  tomatoes,  cover  each  wllh 
butter  crust  rolled  thin,  and  boil  the  dumpiings 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  with  cold 
butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Tomatoes  washed,  and  siniply  roasted  in  I  he 
oven,  are  very  good. 


VEGETABLES.  55 

144  Boiled  Beetroot. 

Wash  the  beetroot  thoroughly,  but  he  careful 
not  to  break  the  skin,  or  the  colour  will  be  spoilt. 
Put  it  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  from  an  hour 
and  a  half  to  three  hours,  according  to  size  ;  cut 
into  thick  slices  and  send  to  table  hot,  with  melted 
butter.  It"  to  eat  cold,  it  may  be  boiled  in  the 
same  manner,  or  baked  dry  on  a  tin  in  the  oven, 
when  tender,  cut  (whilst  hot)  into  thin  slices  and 
put  into  a  jar  with  a  little  sugar,  and  equal 
quantities  of  vinegar  and  watei'. 

145.  To  Cook  Spanish  Onions. 

Boil  them  tor  an  hour,  tlien  take  them  out  and 
place  them  on  a  tin,  flour  them  and  put  pieces  of 
butter  on  them.  Put  the  tin  in  the  oven,  and  let 
them  bake  until  they  are  soft.  They  may  take 
an  hour  or  two,  as  the  time  will  depend  upon  the 
size  of  the  onions  and  the  heat  of  the  oven  ;  they 
must  be  basted  with  butter  very  frequently,  and 
occasionally  floured. 

146   Boiled  Mushrooms. 

Choose  some  large  nnishrooms,  peel  them,  and 
take  off  the  stems,  then  place  them  on  a  gridiron, 
with  the  hollow  part  ui)wards;  add  a  piece  of 
butter  and  a  little  pep})er  and  salt,  and  let  them 
broil  for  a  few  minutes  ;  do  not  turn  them. 

147.  Stewed  Mushrooms. 

Take  a  pint  of  small  fresh  mushrooms,  peel 
tliem,  and  take  off  part  of  the  stalks,  throw  them 
into  water,  that  all  dirt  may  be  removed  ;  when  all 


56  VEGETABLES. 

arc  waslied  put  tliem  into  a  stew-pan  wilh  a  very 
little  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  or  rather  less,  of 
butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  the 
mushrooms  stew  for  about  twenty  minutes,  then 
rub  smooth  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  with  a  little 
milk,  and  add  it  to  the  mushrooms,  pour  in  more 
cream  or  milk,  until  the  sauce  is  the  proper 
thickness,  t^rate  in  a  little  nntme^^,  boil  up,  and 
just  before  servins^  add  a  little  lemon  juice;  the 
mushrooms  must  be  quite  tender,  so  if  twenty 
minutes  stewing  does  not  make  them  so,  let  them 
stew  a  little  lon^a^r. 


148   Indian  Salado. 

Slice  two  cucumbeis,  takinj;  out  the  seeds, 
I  Spanish  onion,  two  acid  apples,  and  two  cliillies. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  well,  and  pour 
over  it  two  spoonfuls  of  vinepir,  and  thn^e  of 
ealad  oil.  The  cut  meat  of  a  lobster,  or  of  crab's 
claws,  is  an  improvement ;  the  onion  may  l>e 
omitted  at  pleasure. 


149.  Canapes. 

Chop  a  small  quantity  of  pickled  «,du'rkin8, 
shalots.  capers,  j)arsley,  and  thyme  (very  liltl<'  of 
the  latter) ;  put  this  into  a  little  vinegar  and  oil,  add 
pepper  and  salt,  mix  it  up  into  a  paste,  fry  some 
pieces  of  bread  cut  the  form  of  lozenges,  or  any 
other  shai)e,  fry  them  until  they  are  well  hrowned, 
spread  the  above  scasoniiiL,^  over  them,  place  tln^m 
on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  li.ird  boiled 
ei^irs. 


PICKLES,  SA UCES,  ETC,       "  57 

150.  Fried  Rice. 

Wash  a  breakfastciipful  of  rice,  put  it  into  a 
saucepau  witli  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  a  little 
Biilt,  let  it  boil  exactly  seventeen  minutes,  then 
drain  off  the  water,  if  any  remains,  and  set  it  over 
a  moderate  fire  to  steam  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Press  it  into  a  tin  or  flat  dish  and  leave  it  for 
some  hours  until  it  is  quite  firm,  then  cut  it  in 
slices  and  fry  in  butter.  If  left  till  the  next  day 
it  will  be  firmer. 

151.  To  Cook  Lentils. 

A    FRENCH    RECIPE. 

Boil  the  lentils  in  salt  and  water,  then  drain 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  large  piece  of 
butter,  chopped  parsley,  salt,  and  pei)per;  stew 
them  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  butter,  and  serve, 
garnished  with  crusts  of  bread. 


PICKLES,  SAUCES,  ETC. 


152.  Lord  Loughborough's  Pickles. 

(very  good.) 

Take  three  large  acid  apples,  one  large  cu- 
cumber and  two  small  ones,  one  large  onion, 
twenty  chillies,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper.  AH  to  be  mixed  and  covered  with  salt 
vineo^ar. 


58  .         PICKLES,  SAUCES,  ETC. 

153   A  French  Recipe  for  making  Tomato 
Sauce. 

Wash  some  tomatoes,  cut  them  into  pieces,  ])ut 
them  into  a  sancei)nii  with  wnter,  ])epper,  salt,  a 
cho|>])e(l  onion,  a  small  piece  of  ^j^arhc,  a  hay  leaf, 
and  some  thyme;  let  this  hoil  until  the  tomatoes 
are  qnite  soft,  press  it  tiirough  a  sieve,  kee])in£^ 
hack  the  skins,  warm  it  again,  adding  a  little  flour 
and  hutter,  and  serve. 

154.  Gherkin  Sauce. 

Mix  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  t.ihlespoonful 
(»t  water,  put  this  into  a  snucep.in  with  two  ounces 
of  l)utter,  some  chopped  i^herkins,  and  a  little 
salt.  Simmer  till  it  thickens,  stirring  it  all  the 
tini(».  and  serve.  This  is  a  savoury  sauce  to  serve 
with  fish.  In  France,  caper  sauce  ifl  sometimes 
s(Mved  with  boiled  sole. 


155.  Sauce  Piquanta. 

FRENCH. 

•Shred  some  s.'dad  herbs  very  fine,  with  half 
a  clove  of  garlic,  and  two  esclialots;  put  ihera 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  nuistard,  vinegar,  oil, 
salt,  and  pepper;  stew  it  over  a  slow  tire. 

N B.  This  is  a  French  recipe,  and  will  be 
excellent  either  to  serve  with  fish,  or  to  mix  with 
the  remains  of  cooked  fish,  and  warmed  with  it. 


PICKLES,  SAUCES,  ETC,  59 

156.  White  Sauce. 

FRENCH. 

Thicken  half  a  pint  of  cream  with  a  little 
flour,  add  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  four  chopped 
eschalots,  and  a  little  minced  lemon  peel,  also 
a  little  white  pepper  ;  let  it  boil,  and  a  short  time 
befoie  serving:,  add  a  spoonful  of  white  wine, 
the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little  lemon 
juice,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 

157.  Parsley  Sauce,  without  Butter. 

Mix  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  smoothly  with 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  have  ready  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  add  this  to  thr  flour 
and  milk,  and  put  all  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
salt,  and  simmer  until  it  thickens,  stirring  it  one 
way  all  the  time. 

KB.  This  makes  very  good  parsley  sauce, 
and  it  is  a  useful  recipe,  the  absence  oi  butter 
makinf^:  it  admissible  at  collation. 


158.  To  Make  Melted  Butter. 

Mix  a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  about 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  a  little  salt.  Put 
this  into  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  of  butter. 
Stir  one  way  until  it  becomes  thick,  then  serve. 

N.B.  If  melted  butter  is  made  exactly  by  this 
recipe  it  will  be  found  very  good.  Milk  may  be 
substituted  for  the  water  if  made  to  serve  with 
puddings  or  other  sweet  dishes. 


6o  PICKLES,  SAUCES,  ETC. 

159.  A  Good  Salad  Dressing. 

Boiit  the  yolks  of  two  epn^s,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  a  very  little  flour,  a  large  piece  of 
butter  (about  two  ounces),  a  small  quantity  of  salt, 
sui^ar  and  mustard,  and  a  spoonful  of  water. 
Stir  well,  and  warm  it  over  a  slow  fin*  until  it 
becomes  about  as  thick  as  custard.  Put  it  into 
a  basin,  and  when  quite  cold  put  it  over  your 
Hulad. 

160.  French  Salad  Dressing. 

One  tablespoon lul  of  vinegar,  a  little  pepper 
and  Kiilt,  and  two  tablesi)oonful8  of  oil. 


161.  Fried  Bread  for  Pea  Soup. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread,  not  too  ihin,  cut  thera 
into  little  square  pi(»oes  about  the  size  of  dice. 
Put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  large  lumj)  of 
beef  dripi)ing.  Fry  them  for  some  minutes,  shak- 
ing the  pan  that  all  may  gel  well  browned 


I 


F 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


