eee Lo ok 

+g.) Pk ed neg od 

Mea ok 
weld 


oF) 
A wh 


















Shee eta 


oy eee ses 
we tl aa ‘b- 


bee) 


an, 








; 
} 
i 
} 














1G he aes 





at wi tage! 





COOK’S DICTIONARY, 
HOUSE-KEEPER'S DIRECTORY: 


NEW FAMILY MANUAL 


OF 


COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY, 


ON A PLAN OF READY REFERENCE 


NEVER HITHERTO ATTEMPTED. 


BY RICHARD DOLBY, 
COOK AT THE THATCHED-HOUSE TAVERN, 


ST. JAMES’S STREET. 


LONDON : 
HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY, 


NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 





1830. 





ae 


eS, 


zy % ote ie: a 
5. 5 a Nee 


i 7! 
renee 
Ruan 





ADVERTISEMENT. 





In presenting this system of Cookery to the Public, the Editor 
begs leave to state, that the Work is not only substantially new, 
but composed upon a plan entirely original. The arrangement is 
alphabetical, at once the simplest and best for reference ; yet it has 
never hitherto been adopted by writers on Cookery. To all other 
arts and sciences this mode of arrangement has been successfully 
applied; and Dictionaries of these have been found to be the most 
convenient and popular compendiums of knowledge. Perhaps of all 
works that teach the arts of civilized: life, Cookery Books most 
require to be easy of reference ; the preparation of a single dish will 
often compel a cook to turn to a dozen receipts ; and the plan of all 
the systems hitherto existing is so confused, that, when this is the 
case, much time must be lost: in searching for them. The difficulty 
of finding, with sufficient dispatch, the various receipts which are 
often required, has long been complained of; and it is therefore 
singular that the plan of the present Work, apparently so obvious, 
and certainly so well calculated to save time and abridge labour, 
should not have been sooner adopted. 

With regard to the contents of this volume, apart from its plan, 
the Editor begs to state, that he has.enriched his Dictionary of 
Cookery and Confectionery with numerous excellent receipts, most of 
which have seldom or never appeared in print before ; and these have a 
star prefixed to note them. The number of asterisks throughout the 
work will abundantly prove that novelty of matter, as well as of plan, 
may be claimed for this volume. To the important subject of 








lv ADVERTISEMENT. 


CoNFECTIONERY, 80 much neglected in other Cookery Books, much | 
attention has been paid ; and, upon the whole, the Editor ventures 
to hope that he will be allowed to have given to the public a valuable 
Work. 

Among other novelties will be found an alphabetical list ie 
the various kinds of Fish, Flesh, Fowl, Fruits, and Vegetables, with 
_ the months when each is in season, and original instructions for 
choosing the several kinds of Food. | 

The Editor has only further to observe, that, so far is he from 
arrogating too much to himself of the credit which may be thought 
due to the work, that he is free to confess himself largely indebted to 
the talents and labours of numerous friends in the profession, to 
whom he takes this opportunity of returning his grateful acknow- 
ledgments. 


London, May, 1830. 


» 


A 


ia 


DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 
ee CONFECTIONERY, | 


Se. 


A 


ACID Sauce.—Pound the yolks of 
three hard eggs, one anchovy, with a 
pinch of salt and spices, half a glass of 
vinegar, and butter rolled in flour; add 
alittle veal gravy (oronions),and thicken 
it like white sance. 

ADMIRAL’S Sauce.—Chop an an- 
chovy, seven or eight green rocamboles, 
simmer them on the fire with a little 
consommeé, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and but- 
ter rolled in flour. When ready, add a 
little lemon-juice, or a spoontul of ver- 
juice. 

ALMOND Biscutts.*—Blanch and 
pound a quarter of a pound of sweet 
almonds, sprinkling them occasionally 
with fine sugar; then beat them up fora 
quarter of an hour with an ounce of flour, 
the yolks of three eggs, and four ounces 
of fine sugar, adding afterwards the 
whites of four eggs. whipt to a froth: 
have ready some paper moulds made like 
boxes, about the length of two fingers 
square; butter them within, and put in 
the biscuits, throwing over them equal 
quantities of flour and powdered sugar: 
bake in a cool oven, and when the bis- 
cuits are done ofagvod colour, take them 
out of the papers. Bitter almond bis- 
cuits are made in the same manner, wita 
this difference, that to two ounces of bit 
ter almonds must be added one ounce of 
sweet almonds. 

Aumonpn Biscuits.*—Take eight ounces 
of sweet, and as many bitter almonds, 
fifteen whites, and eight yolks of eggs, 
two ounces of flour, and two pounds of 
powder sugar, pour boiling wateron your 
almonds, and almost immediately after 
turn that away and pour cold water on 
them; rub offthe skins one by one with 
a napkin, then pound them to a paste in 
a mortar, moistening them with the 
whites of two eggs. Beat the fifteen 


whites to a snow, and the eight 1S. 


Se. 


‘with half the quantity of the sugar, and 
then mix them with the almond paste; 
put the remainder of the sugar into a 
basin; sift some flour over it; stir the 
mixture till all the ingredients are tho- 
roughly incorporated, and pour it into 
small paper cases, glaze them with the 
sugar and flour sifted over them. Bake 
them in a pretty warm oven. 
Aumonp Biscuits (smaill).*—Beat up 
the yolks of three eggs for ten minutes, 
with four ounces of powder-sugar and one 
ounce of bitter almonds well pounded; 
then add awhole egg, and beat it up five 
minutes longer. Whip the whites to a 
strong froth; mix them and an ounce 
and half of fine sifted flour with the yolks 
work this paste well, and then pour it 
into small well-buttered copper moulds 
melon-shaped; glaze them; sprinkle 
them with powder sugar, and bake for 
eighteen or twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. . Moe 
AtMonD Biscuits (souflés).*—Bl 






wise fall over and spoil their appearance 5 

bake them in a moderately heated oven. 

Pe soon as they are pretty firm, they are 
one. 

Aumonps (blown).—Scald a few al- 
monds, and pound them to about half as 
fine as for biscuits, beat them with lemon 
juice, whites of eggs and powder-sugar ; 
crop them on paper, about the size of 
almonds, and dry them in a stove or 
gentle oven. 


Atmonps (4lown) & la Royale.*—Choose 


four ounces of small thick almonds, and 


put them into an oven until they are | 


slightly coloured. Whilst they are cool- 





ALM © 


ing, mix four ounces of sugar with an. 


egg; beat them up for ten minutes; add 
a little carmine to make it a fine rose 
colour; dip the almonds into.this: take 
them out; disengage them from the egg, 
so that they may be only just covered 
with it; lay them two and two on asheet 
of strong paper three-quarters of an inch 
between each pair;. they may also be 
placed in threes to form the tré-foil, on 
which may be added a fourthe Bake 
them in a cool oven. 

Atmonp Bread.—Take a pound of the 


best almonds, slice them the round way, 


beat and sift a pound of double-refined 
sugar, and strew it over the almonds as 
you cut them, stirring them frequently 
to prevent their sticking together; when 
allthe sugar is used, put them into an 
earthen basin, with a few carraway 
seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in 
rose-water and strained), three grains of 
musk and ambereris dissolved in fine 
sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten 
to a very light froth, and two spoonsful 
of fine flour: when well mixed, lay them 
on wafers the size of macaroons; open 
them with a knife or bodkin, lest two or 
three pieces stick together; the quicker 
you lay them, the better they will look; 
put them into a well-heated oven, taking 
care they do not scorch; when half- 
baked, take them out, wash them with 
the white of an egz beaten to a froth, 
grate a little fine sugar over them, and 
bake them about half an hour longer. 

Autmonpn Butter.—To a quarter of a 
pound of blanched almonds, well beat, 
put some new milk and rose-water; take 
a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of 
twelve eggs beat well with a little of the 
cream; then add the rest of the cream; 
put a quarter of a pint of new milk to the 
almonds, and strain them into the cream 
till there is no strength left; strain all 
together into a skillet, set it over a char- 
coal fire, and stir it till it comes to a ten- 
der curd; put it into a strainer, and 
hang it up till the whey is drained out; 
then take six ounces of fine sifted sugar 
and a little rose-water, and beat it all 
into butter with a spoon. 

Aumonp Cake.*—Blanch a quarter of 
a pound of sweet and two large bitter 
almonds, pound them very fine, with a 


little white of egg; add to them abouta 
quarter of a pound of fine powdered 
sugar, two ounces of butter, a macaroon, 


the yolks of two egys, two spoonsful of 
whipt cream ; mix these ingredients well 
together with a little salt. Make an 
under crust of puff paste; and after 
having rolled it seven or eight times, 
cut it round, and put it in a cake-tin; 
moisten the edges slightly, and. pour 


(2) 


on it the almond paste, and cover it with 


ALM 


f 


the puff paste, and join them closely. 
Wash it over with a very clear dorure, 


and with the point of your knife mark 


what ornament you please on the sur- 
face.—Let it bake in a moderately hot 
oven for about an hour; take it out and 
sprinkle it with sugar. aia 

Aumonn Cake.—Take eight ounces of 
Jordan and one ounce of bitter almonds, 
blanch and pound them very fine; then 
beat in with the almonds the yolks of 
eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a 
solid froth. Then take eight table spoons- 
ful of sifted sugar, five spoonsful of fine 
flour, a small quantity of grated lemon 
peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all 
the ingredients. Rub the inside of a 
mould with fresh butter, fill it with the 
mixture and bake it of a light colour. 

Autmonn Cake.*—Put a quartern of 
flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole 
in the middle to receive a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter 
ofa pound of fine sugar, and six ounces 
of sweet almonds pounded very fine: 
knead the whole, and formit into acake; 
bake, and glaze it with sugar and a hot 
salamander. 

Another way.—Weigh three eggs in 
their shells, take the same weight of 
flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of 
grated loaf sugar. Pound with these in- 
gredients three ounces of sweet almonds 






six yolks, a spoonful of bYa 
grain or two of salt; work these up toge- 
ther for five minutes, and then add six 
ounces of fresh butter which is slightly 
warmed, work that in for four minutes 
lenger. Then, having whipt the whites 
of two eggs, mix them into the paste. 
Butter a well-tinned copper mould or 
paper case, ten inches long, five wide, 
and two high}; pourin your preparation, 
and bake it ina cool oven. While baking, 


whip the whites of two eggs, and mix two’ 


ounces of powder sugar with them, and 
cut four ounces of sweet almonds into 
slips (shortwise); mix them also with two 
ounces of powder sugar and a spoonful of 
white ofegg whipped. Inthree-quaiters 
of an hour take out the cake, and if it be’ 


d 


o 


dy and a' 


ot 


4 
ALM (3) ~ ALM 


firm and well-coloured, cover it with the 
whipped egg and sugar, and on that strew 
the almonds equally, pressing them in, 
thatall may be coloured alike. Thisope- 
ration must be performed as quick as pos- 
sible, and when done, turn the cake out 
and cut it in four slips (lengthwise}, and 
then divide each into six parts lozenge- 
' shaped ; this will give you twenty-four 
. cakes, which must be arranged in stars 
on your dish, six to every star. They 
may also be cut in two lengths instead of 
four, and these divided into fifteen small 
pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, 
formed into crescents. The ingredients, 
and the proper quantities for this cake, 
are as follows:—six ounces of flour, the 
same of powder-sugar, three ounces of 
sweet and bitter almonds, six yolks, and 
two whole eggs, six ounces of butter, two 
of sugar mixed with the whites of two 
eggs whipped, four ounces of cut almonds 
i yf to the sugar and eggs, a spoonful 
of brandy anda grain of salt. 
_ Atmonp Small Cakes.—(Spanish.)*— 
© Two ounces of bitter almonds blanched | 
and beaten to’ a paste with a little white 
of egg; add to them one pound of flour 
dried, one pound of sugar pounded fine, 
and five ounces of butter, mix them well 
together and let it stand some time be- 
fore the fire: then add three eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten separately ; 
drop them on atin in small lumps with 
a fork, to bake them. 

AutmonD (small) Cakes.*—Blanch half 
a pound of almonds, pound them to a 
paste with white of egg, add three quar- 
ters of a pound of powder-sugar, one of 
orange flowers pralinée, and about two 
ounces of créme patissiére; take some 
puff paste, roll it out very thin, cut it 
into small square pieces, lay them on a 
baking plate, and put some of the above 
mixture on each, moisten the edges, cover 
them with the puff paste, dorez, prick and 
bake them in a hot oven, when done, ice 
them with sugar. 

Autmonp (solid) Cake.* —'Take two 
pounds of sweet almonds, blanch and 
pound them with the whites offour eggs; 
then add the zes/es of two lemons sliced, 
two pinches of orange flowers pralinée, a 
little salt, two pounds of powder-sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of potatoe flower, and 
twelve whole eggs ; mix all together well, 
and put it into a buttered mould, and 
bake it in a slow oven. 

Atmonp Candy.*—Blanch a pound of 
new Jordan almonds, and cut them very 


the almonds may be left, divide them into 

four parts to colour them differentiy, one 

part red, the second yellow, the third: 
green, and the fourth Jeft white as they . 
come from the sugar. ‘To colour the 
first, soak a small quantity of carmine in 
clarified sugar, and lay your elmonds ia 

it; do the same with a little tincture ef 
saffron for the yellow, and spinach juice p 
for the green. Place the coloured al- 
monds on a sieve in a stove; when dry, 
mix all together, adding the white ones. 
Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould 
will require to soufflé, put it in, and when 
the almonds are quite dry, garnish the 
surface of the sugar with them; do not, 
however, lay them too thick, and just 
press them down with a fork; put the 
mould into.a moderate oven for five hours, 
then drain it well, and in another two 
hours it may be taken from the mould. 

AumonD Cheesecakes.*—Take haif a 
pound of Jordan almonds, lay them in 
cold water all night; the next morning 
blanch them in cold water; then take 
them out and dry them ina clean cloth, 
beat them very fine in a little orange 
flower water; then take six eggs, leave 
out four whites, with a little beaten mace; 
beat them wel! ina marble mortar; take 
ten ounces of fresh butter, melt it, add 
a litle grated lemon-peel, and put them 
in the mortar with the other ingredients ; 
mix all well together and fill your patty- 
pans, having lined them with thin puff 
paste. 

Another way.—Blanch and pound four 
ounces of almonds, and a few bitter with 
a spoontul of water; then add four ounces 
of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, 
and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; 
mix all as quick as possible; put into 
very small patty-pans, and bake in a 
pretty warm oven twenty minutes. 

Aumonpns, (Cinnamon).— (Spanish.)* 
Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of 
butter tied ina piece of cloth, rub the pan 
and brown them. Have ready some cla- 
rified sugar, with powdered cinnamon stir- 
red in it, putin the almonds, and when 
well covered with the sugar and cinna- 
mon, lay them separately on tins, and 
dry in a slow oven. 

AutMonpbs (To Cortour).*—ALMoNDSs 
(vose coloured.)—Blanch and cut sweet 
almonds in small pieces, put them ona 
baking plate, and pour on them a little of 
any vegetable liquid, of an infusion of 
cochineal, or carmine 3, then rub them in 
your hands, tomix them well with the 
colour ; when allare so done, dry them 
in a stove or in the oven. 

Atmonps (violet)—Are done in the 
same way, the colouring ingredients are 
cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in 


ad 
















































Poff and keep stirring till the 
is @ry like sand; then sift it, so that 





ALM . 


water, put but a small quantity of the 
latter at a time, as it is very powerful. — 

_ Atmonps (green).—The same proceed- 
ing: the colour is made with two hand- 
fuls of fresh spinach, weil washed, drain- 
ed, and then pounded; when very fine, 
press it through a napkin; let the juice 
drop on a dish, which place on a. hot 
stove ; as soon as it begins to boil, take it 
off, stirring it constantly, till the green 
curdles, then pour it through a horse- 
hair sieve, and when well drained strain 
it through a silk sieve or tammy; the 
juice thus obtained, will give the almonds 
(which must be put in a few ata time) a 
clear and even green colour. 

Aumonps (6/we).—Dissolve a little in- 
digo in water, strain it through a cloth 
and use it as above mentioned. 

Atmonps (orange coloured).—Mix a 
little liquid red, and a little infusion of 
saffron together, and proceed with the 
almonds as usual. 

Aumonps (lemon coloured).—Infuse a 
small quantity of saffron in nearly boil- 
ing water for a few minutes; strain and 
follow the above direction. 

Aumonns (chocolate coloured).— Are 
dyed with chocolate dissolved in water 
and strained. 

The almonds may be cut in slips, dice, 
&c. according fo fancy. Observe that the 
colour of your almonds should be light 
and delicate; when done, place them, 
either separately or mixed together, in 
paper cases. . 

Aumonps (burnt) Conserve of.*— 
Blanch and cut six ounces of sweet al- 
monds into small strips, lay them on 
paper and put them intoan oven; when 
they are brown, take them out, and throw 
them inte two pounds of sugar boiled to 
petit cassé, stir the naixture well until it 
begins to blow, and them pour it into 
paper cases or moulds. 

AumMonp Coupeaux.*——Blanch and 
pound half a pound of sweet almonds, 
with the whites of three eggs into a very 
fine paste, add to it six ounces of powder- 
ed sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; 
when thoroughly mixed together, pour 
over it about four spoonsful of crange- 
flower water? stir up the paste (which 
ought to be rather thin,) once more, and 
then lay it with aspoonon aplate of bright 
copper, in an oval form, about three or 
four inches in length. The plate being 
quite full, take it up by both hands, and 
strike it steadily upon a table, sothat the 
paste may be extended, but not much; 
then bake them until they become of a 
deep yellow. Take them from the cop- 
per with a knife, and whilst hot put them 
ona wooden roller, about the thickness 
of an arm, and press them with your hand, 


(4) 


ALM 


that they may acquire the form of the 
wood, and when cool place in a box, and 
keep them dry. ‘These coupeaux are © 
very brittle. my i 

Atmonp Cream.*—Blanch six ounces 
of sweet almonds and pound them very 
fine ; whip up the whites of two eggs with 
a pint ef milk and four ounces of powder 
sugar; boil the milk over a gentle fire 
till reduced to a quarter, then add the 
almonds, let it boil a minute or two; 
pour in aspoonful of orange flower-water. 
When cold, garnish it with almonds aw. 
caramel. . eee 

Atmonp Cream.—Put a pint of milk 
and a pint of cream, with a small bit of - 
lemon peel, into a stewpan, to boil very 
gently for twenty minutes; in the mean 
while, blanch and pound very fine, three 
ounces of sweet almonds and half an 
ounce of bitter almonds; then take the 
milk and cream from the fire, into which 
(while hot) stir the pounded almonds 
with the yolks of two or three eggs and 
clarified sugar (boiled to caramel height) 
enough to sweeten it; then put the whole 
into a tammy, and, with a wooden spoon, 
well rub and squeeze it through; do 
this a second time, then squeeze into the 
cream two ounces of well clarified isin- 
glass, the whole being together ina basin, 
have your mould ready in ice, into which 
put the cream; when set, turn it out as 
any other jelly. : 

Atmonpd Cream.*—Take six, ounces of 
sweet almonds, a pint of good milk, and 
five ounces of sugar; peel the almonds 
and throw them into cold water; when 
well drained, pound them with a little 
water. Beat up in the milk the whites 
of two eggs, in which dissolve the sugar, 
and then buil iton a slow fire; when about 
a quarter of the quantity is wasted away, 
add toit the almond paste, boil these 
together once, put in a little orange 
flower, and strain it. Let it stand, and 
when cold serve it, garnish it with al- 
monds aw caramel broiled, disposed ac- 
cording to your taste. 

AtMonps Crisped.*—Rub a pound of 
the bestsweet almonds in a cloth to take 
off’all the dust, and then put them, with 
a pound of sugar, half a glass of water 
and a little carmine, into a preserving 


‘pan; put themon the fire, and Jet them 


remain; when the almonds crackle take 
them off and work them about until the 
sugar is detached from the almonds, then 
take away part of the sugar, put the al- 
monds on the fire again, ard stir them 
lightly with a spatula, (be careful that 
the fire be not teo quick) ; and when they 
have taken thesugar, add that which had 
been removed, and continue to burn them 
till they have imbibed that also. Place 


ALM 


a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your 
almonds on it, separate those which ad- 
here together, and Jet them cool. 


Atmonnd Custards.—Blanch and beat 


four ounces ofalmonds fine with a spoon- 
_ Tul of water; beat a pint of cream with two 

spoonsful of rose-water, and put to them 
the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar 
as will make it pretty sweet, then add the 
almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it 
1s of a proper thickness, but not to boil. 
Pour it into cups. 


Another way.—Add toa pint and a half 


of cream a small stick of cinnamon, a 
blade of mace, a bit of lemon peel, some 
nutmeg and sugar to the taste; boil 
them together ten minutes, and strain it; 


then blanch and pound three ounces of 


jordan and eight single bitter almonds ; 
after which rub through a hair sieve, add 
the fine pulp to the cream, likewise a 
little syrup of roses and the yolks of six 
ezgs beaten up, and put the mixture into 
small cups; or it may be baked in a dish 
with a rim of puff paste round it. 

Aumonns (Devilled).—Blanch half a 
pound ofjordan almonds, and wipe them 
dry; then put into a frying-pan two 
ounces of fresh butter, make it hot, add 
the almonds, try them gently till of a 
good brown colour, drain them on a hair 
sieve, strew over cayenne pepper and 
salt, and serve them up hot. 

Aumonp Dragées.—Take of the best 
and largest almonds what quantity you 
please, and having washed ee in cold 
water, let them drain and dry on a sieve 
for twenty-four hours. The next day 
weigh them, and for each pound of al- 
monds take three pounds of sugar; clarify 
the latier and boil it tothe degree peté¢ 
féssé; then letit cool alittle. Have your 
tossing pan ready; on your right hand, a 
chafing dish to keep your pan containing 
the syrup constantly warm ; and on your 
left hand, a table with a mixture of pow- 
der and flour (of each half a pound to a 
pound ofalmonds). All being ready, put 
the almonds into the pan, and pour ever 
them one or two large spoonsful of the 
syrup, and shake them so that all the al- 
monds may be wetted with syrup; then 
take a handful or two of the flour and 
powder, and strew it over the wet al- 
monds; shake them again, that the flour 
may adhere all round the almonds. Af- 
ter, this swing the pan backwards and 
forwards, by which means the almonds 
roll about in every direction; continue 
this motion until they become dry; then 
moisten and powder them as befcre; 


swing the pan again, and when dry, re- 
peat the process a third, fourth, and fifth 


time, or more, until they are of a proper 


size; then pour over them the syrup aie 


(5) 


ALM 


the last time, without the powder, and, 
having swung and dried them, take them 


¥ out and place them on sieves in a warm 


place, that they may dry perfectly beiore 
you put them by for use. 

Observe, that after a few layers of the 
syrup, the superabundant parts of that 
and the powder form a white crust at 
the bottom of the pan; as soon as it ac- 
quires any degree of thickness, the pan 


‘must be taken from the fire, the almonds 


carefully removed with an iron spatula, 
and the crust broken off; when the pan 
has been well washed and dried, replace 
the almondsand proceed with your work. 
This mast be strictly attended to, not only 
with this, butin making all kindsof sweet- 
meats. The sugar thus cleared away 
may be made uselul for many purposes. 

Common Alinond Dragées are made 
in the same manner; the only difference 
consists in having ingredients of an in 
ferior quality. * 

Aumonns, English Fashion.—Mix al- 
monds and filberts scalded in equal quan- 
tities; chop one half very fine, cut the 
rest each into two or three slices; pur 
the whole in double their weight of sugar, 
prepared @ fa grande plume, with some 
lemon peel rasped; stir the almonds very 
well in the sugar, taking it off the fire, 
and add one or two whites of eggs; pour 
it in paper large enough to contain the 
whole, and cut it in slices for use as you 
think proper, when baked as usual. 

Autmonps (Milk ef) Funchonneties.*¥— 
Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet 
and one of bitter almonds, and when the 
paste is very fine, add toit three glasseg 
of nearly boiling milk, then press this 
mixture through a napkin to draw out 
the mak. Put into astewpan four yolks 
of eggs, three ounces of powder-sugar, 
one of sifted flour, and a- grain of salt, 
mix them well together, and add by de- 
grees tue almond milk, put this cn a 
moderate fire, stirring it constantly. Line 
about thirty tartlet moulds with thin puff 
paste, and put on them a little of the 
above preparation, and bake them in a 
mederate oven. When properly done, 
take them out and let them cool. Mix 
with the whites of three hard eggs, four 
ounces of powder-suyar, stir it well to 
soften the egg, and make it work easily 3 
put some of the remainder of your pre- 
paration on each of the fanchkonneétes, 
and cover them lightly with theegg 3 put 
some white of egg on the blade ofa large 
knife, and with a small one as quick as 
possible take off seven meringues abuut 
the size of a filbert, and arrange them in 
the form ofacrown on each funchonneite; _ 
when you have done five or six, cover 
Ree with powder-sugar very equally, 





ALM (6) ALM 


and then bake them in a cool oven. When 
of a reddish brown they are done and 
may he served. ae 
» ALMOND Flummery.—Boil three ounces 
of hartshorn in two quarts of spring 
water ; let it simmer six or seven hours 
till half the water is consumed; strain it 
through a sieve ; beat halfa pound of al- 
monds very fine, with ey of orange 
flower water ; mixa little of the jelly and 
some fine sugar with it ; strain it withthe 
rest of the jelly, stirring it till it is a little 
*more than blood warm; pour it into 
basins or cups, and stick in almonds cut 
small. 

Aumonp Fraze.—Blanch a pound of 
jordan almonds, and steep them in a pint 
of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of 
eggs; take out the almonds and pound 
them fise in a marble mortar; then mix 
them again in the cream and eggs, put in 
sugar and grated bread, and stir them all 
together; thea put some fresh butter 
inte the pan, let it be hot and pour it in, 
stirring it in the pan till they are of a 
sufficient consistence ; and when enough, 
turn it into a dish, strew sugar over it, 
and serve it up. 

Aumonp Fritters.—Pound halfa pound 
of sweet almonds, and six or eight bitter 
ones, orange flowers, chopped lemon- 
peel, sugar in proportion, a handful of 
flour, and two or three whites of eggs; 
pound all together some time, acding a 
few drops of water, or more whites ofeggs, 
_to make it of a proper suppleness to roll 
into little balls; rojl them in flour to fry 
as forcemeat balis; strew alittle finesugar- 
powder upon them when ready to serve. 

Aumonps (Bitter) Fromage Bavarois 
of.*—Peel, wash, and drain, three ounces 
of sweet, and one ounce of bitteralmonds, 
pound them toa paste, moistening with 
two spoonsful ofwater. Putthem intoan 
earthen pan, with two glasses of nearly 
boiling milk, in which eight ounces of 
sugar have been dissolved ; letthis stand 

-an hour, then strain it threugh a fine 
sieve, and put to it six drachras of isin- 
glass lukewarm 5 place the whole in ice, 
and when it begins to set, add some 
whipped cream; pour it into a mould 
which has been kept in ice, put it in ice 
again for halfan hour, and then take the 
fromage from the mould. 

AtumonD Garlands.—Take halfa pound 
of march-pane paste, the whites of two 
or three eggs, some powdéred cinnamon 
and a little flour, knead them into a 
paste, and roll them into the form or 
sausages with your hand on the table, 
first strewing the table with almonds 
minced, but not very fine; so that they 
may adhere to the sausages, which ought 
to be about the size of your finger; then 








form them into rings or garlands of what 
size you please, fixing the ends together 
with water: place them on paper, and 


bake them in a quick oven until they are 


ofa clear brown colour. bg 
ALMOND (Bitter) petits gateaux roy- 
aux.*—Pound six drachms of bitter al- 
monds, strain them through a sieve, and 
mix them in an earthen vessel, with 
nearly the white ofan egg, and six ounces 
of sugar, stir these with a silver spoon 
for afew minutes. Take three-quarters 
of a pound of puff paste, roll it to the 
thickness of a quarter of an inch, and 
cut outof it thirty oval cakes (two inches 
and a half long by two and a quarter 
wide) pointed at the ends; put on each 
a quarter of a spoonful of the almond 
glaze, and with the blade ofa knife spread 
it equaily over the surface for about the 
eighthofan inch, and then let them stand 
for half an hour before you put them into 
the oven, which must be moderate. If 
you hake them immediately after putting 
on the glaze, it wrinkles and shrivels up, 
which spoils their appearance, as they 
ought to be quite smooth and even; the 
cakes also require considerable care in 
the baking ; they should be slightly co- 
sear ers on the top and the lower part red- 
ish. 
AtMon»d (Bitter). Gennises.* —Blanch 
two ounces four drachms of sweet, and 
two ounces and a half.of bitter almonds, 
pound them toa paste and then put them 
into the following preparation: blanch 
and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, 
and when perfectly smooth, mix them in 
an earthen pan with six ounces of flour 
the same of powder-sugar, six yolks and 
twu whole eggs, a spoonful of brandy and 
a grain of salt. Stir the whole for six 
minutes, then add six. ounces of butter 
slightly warmed but not melted; work 
thé butter well into the paste for four or 
five minutes. Butter two moulds, or 
paper cases, about nine or ten inches 
square, pour in your preparation, smooth 
it with the blade of a knife and then put 
them to bake in a moderate oven, first 
strewing on them four ounces of sweet 
almonds minced and mixed with two 
ounces of powder-sugar, anda little white 
of egg. When done, cut them into all 
possible forms, then replace them in the 
oven to dry} when brittle, take them out, 
let them cool, and decorate them to your 
fancy. 
ALMOND (Brown) Gingerbread.—Beat 
a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds 
with thin gum-water, a few dropsoflemon 
Juice, a little powdered cinnamon, and 
some ginger finely grated and seered to 
give it a brown colour; sweeten and 
smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut 
* 


~~ po 


ALM 


it into squares; dry it in a stove or be- 
fore the fire. 

Atmonps, Grillaye of.*—Blanch half 
a pound ofalmonds, cut them into four or 
five slips, lengthways, pralinez them with 
three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand 
them when they begin to crackle; then 
putthem on the tire again till they are 


well mixed together and form a mass, 


which put on wafer-paper lightly oiled, 
lay it flat, strew over it cinnamon, sugar, 
plain or white nenpared/s, and then cut 
it in pieces. 

Atmonps, Grillage of.* — Blanch a 
pound of sweet almonds, cut them into 
four pieces longways; put them on the 
fire in a deep wide pan, with four ounces 
of water, and a poundof sugar; when the 
almonds crackle, take them from the fire, 
and with a wocden spoon, stir them 
about to cover them well; add some 
lemon-peel grated; cover the fire and 
put the pan on again, stirring the almonds 
constantly until they have taken the ca- 
ramel colour; then place a layer of xon- 
pareil on a dish, spread over it a layer of 
the grillage, then the nonparedland gril- 
lage alternately, until all your prepara- 
tion is used. Dry it then in a stove. 

Atmono Hog’s Pudding.—Chop fine a 
pound of beef marrow; blanch and beat 
fine a pound of sweet almonds with a lit- 
tle orange flower or rose water; grate fine 
half a pound of white bread, wash and 
pick halfa pound of currants, a quarter 
of «a pound of sugar, equal quantities of 
mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, making 
altogether a quarter of an ounce, and 
half # pint of sack or mountain wine. 
Mix all well together, with halfa pint of 
good cream and the yolks of four eggs. 


‘Fill the guts half full, tie them up and 


boil them fora quarter of an hour, and 
prick them as they boil to keep the guts 
from bursting. The currants may be 
left out, in which case a quarter of a 


pound more sugar must be added. 


4 i 


Aumonp Iceing for Bride Cake.—The 


whites of six eggs, a pound anda half of 


double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan 


~ almonds blanched and pounded with a 


little rose water; mix altogether and 
whisk it well for an hour or two, lay it 
over the cake and put it in the oven. 
ALMOND Knots.—Take two pounds of 
almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; 
beat them in a mortar, to a very fine 
paste, with rose water, be careful to keep 
them frum oiling. ‘Take a pound of 
double-refined sugar, sifted through a 


-. Jawn sieve, leave out some to make up 


the knots, put the rest in a pan upon the 
fire, till it is scalding hot, at the same 
time have the almonds scalding hot in 
another pan; then mix them together 


$ 


f 


CF) 


ALM 


with the whites of three eggs beaten to 
froth, and let it stand until it is cold; 
then roll it with some of thesugar left out 
for that purpose, and lay them in platters 
of paper. ‘hey will not roll into shape, 
therefore lay them as well as may be,and 
bake them ina slow oven. 

AtmMonnD (Bitter) Macaroons.*—Take 
a pound of bitter almonds, rub them weli 
in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste 
with the whites of three or four eggs; 
then put them into an earthen pan with 
three pounds of powder-sugar, mix them” 
together well, and if the paste should be 
too dry, moisten it with white of egg, 
Drop iton sheets of paper in lumps about 
the size of a walnut, and bake them ina 
close, gentle even. . 

ALMOND (Sweet) Macaroons.* —Are 
done in the same way. But two pounds 
of sugar are sufficient for a pound of al- 
monds. ; 

Aumonn Milk.*—Take six ounces of 
sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four 
drachms of crange-flower water, and five 
ounces of sugar. Biarch and pound the 
almonds to a very smooth paste, moisten- 
ing them occasionally with afew drops of 
milk; when your paste crumbies, put it 
in the miJk and mix them well, and boil 
it till reduced to half, then let it boil up 
ones more; let it cool and serve. 

AumonnD Milk, as prepared at Meaxico.* 
—Pound blanched almonds as fine as 
possible, with a small quantity of loaf 
sugar; keep adding a little water whilst 
pounding. About twelve almonds care- 
fully beaten will produce a pint of milk. 
A marble mortar must be used. 

Aumonn Rice Milk. (Spanish.)*—To 
half a pound of rice boiled to a pulp, 
when the water is drained, add five pints 
of almond milk; put it in ky degrees, 
stirring it with a wooden spoon whilst 
boiling slowly, till it is of the consistence 
of clotted cream. In the Jast boiling, 
which should be an hour anda half, at 
least, from the commencement, add 
powdered sugar. 

Aumonn Miriitons.*—Blanch an ounce 
of sweet, and the same of bitter almonds, 
and dry them in an oven; when cold, 
pound them with a little white of egg to 
prevent theiroiling ; then put them into 
an earthen pan with two ounces of bitter 
macaroons, five ounces of powder-sugar, 
four whole eggs, and a grain of salt; when 
these are well mixed together, add two 
ounces of butter, lukewarm. Make a 
proper quantity of puff paste, roll it out 
thin, and cut it into thirty round pieces 
about two inches and *three-quarters in 
diameter, and put each of these intoa 
tartlet mould buttered; put the mzr/é- 
tons on this, aad wher. all are equally 





A L M 


fell, cover them with powder-sugar sifted 
over them through a tammy ; as soon as 
that is dissolved strew more (but rot such 
fine) powder-sugar over, and bake them in 
a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

Atmonp Monceaux.*—'Vake half a 
pound of sweet almonds, cut them into 
thin slips (lengthways) and roast them 
co an iren until they are ofa deep yellow 
colour, inclining to brown; beat up the 
whites of six or eight eggs with a spoon in 
an earthen pan. 
a pound of sugar finely powdered, four 
ounces ofcandied orange peel,the same of 
candied lemon peel, also cut into, thin 
slips, half a spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon, and six or eight cloves pounded ; 
mix these ingredients well in the pan, 
and place iton paper in little heaps of 
a pyramidal form, and bake them in a 
well-+heated oven. 

Aumonns (bétier) Mosaic Turtleis.*— 
Pound three ounces of sweet, and one of 
bitter almonds, to a fine paste, and put 
it within the tartlets made as. directed 
under that article. 

Atmonp Pasie.*—Blanch two pounds 
of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold 
water for twelve hours, then dry them 
in a napkin, and pound a quarter of them 
to a very fine paste with a little water 
and lemon-juice, pass them through a 
sieve, and then pound the remainder 
(balf a pound ata time). When all are 
done, mix them with a pound of sifted 
sugar; place them over a genile fire, 
stirring it continuaily, until the paste 
will flow from the spoon}; then pour it 
into a mortar, aud when it becomes luke- 
warm, pound it again with an ounce of 
gum-dragon previously dissclyed in a 
glass of water and strained, the juice of 
twe lemons, and a pound of sifted sugar. 
As soon as your paste is of the proper 
consistence, take it out and lay it on the 
slab, sprinkled first with sugar; divide 
your paste into three parts, and colour 
each part according to your fancy. The 
colouring or dyes are made of the same 
materials as are used for almonds. 

Aumonn Paste ce keep st, or even 
twelve months).*—Blanch and pound a 
pound of sweetalmonds, moistened occa- 
sionally with water, to prevent their oil- 
ing; when well beaten, add halfa pound 
of fine powdered sugar, and mix the 
whole into a paste to use when you have 
occasion. When wanted, mix a picce 
about the size of an egg with three gills 
of water, and strain it through a napkin. 

Aumonns .@ la Praline (dried, pre- 
servel or burnt).*—A pound of the best 
almonds must be washed in cold water ; 
when thoroughly dry, put them into a 
preserving pan with a pound of sugar 


(8) 


Pour over the almonds | 


f 

; 

ALM 

and a pint and a half of water, keep them 
on the fire, stirring them continually, 
until they crackle and fly about, and the = 
sugar begins to colour, stir them about i 


gently to gather the sugar, and leave ; 
them in the pan to dry about two hours, : 
ina stoveor any mederate heat. . > 
Atmonps é@ la Praline Rowge.—Pre- 
pare them as above until they have ta- 
ken the sugar and are ready-to be taken 
off the fire, put the almonds upon a sieve 
with a dish under, take the sugar that 
drops, and put it into thesame pan, add- 
ing alittle fresh; refine it till it comes to 
the twelfth degree (au cassé), then take 
cochineal, colour sufficient to tinge the 
almonds, and put them therein; give 
them a few turns over the fire in the su- 
gar, and finish as at first. 3 rs 
AtumMonn Pudding (0 bake).—Blanch 
halfa pound of sweet almonds and four 
bitter ones, in warm water; pound them 
in a marbie mortar with two spoonsful 
of orange flower water, and two of rose 
water, and a gill of sack; mix in. four 
grated Naples biscuits, three quarters of. 
a pound of melted butier ; beat eight 
eggs, and mix them with a quart of cream 
boiled, grate in half a nutmeg, add a 
quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; mix all - 
well together; make a thin puff paste, 
and lay all over the dish. Pour in the. 
ingredients, and bake it. | By Keak 
ALMond Pudding (baked).—Steep four 
ounces of crumbsot breadslicedina pint = 
and half of cream, or grate the bready) 
then beat half a pound of blanched aloe ee 
monds very fine, tillthey become a paste, 
with two tea-spoonsful of orange flower 
water; beat up the yolks of eight eggs, — 





and the whites of four; mix all well to-— 


gether; put in a quarter of'a pound of 
loaf sugar, and stir in three or four 
ounces of melted butter; put itover the 
fire, and keep stirring until it is thick ; mo, 
lay a sheet of paper at the bottom of @ 
dish, and pour in the ingredients. To — 
bake half an hour. 52 ES 
AumMonD Pudding, as prepared at Mexico. mp e 
—QOne pound of blanched almonds, one 
pound, of pnwder-sugar, twelve yolks — sah 
of eggs and eight whites well beaten to- 
gether, and baked in a flour and water 
crust. This is also used for puffs. 
Aumonn Puddixg.*—Bianch and beat 
a pound of sweet almonds with a little 
rose water, mix a pound of bread grated, 
a nutmeg, halfa pyund of butter, and the 
yolks of six eggs, boil a pint of cream co- 
loured with a very little saffron,add itto = 
the ezgs and a little flour, knead it well, 
and then put in the almonds, beating it 
up till all is mixed together. Boil it for 
half an hourin a buttered cloth. 
Atmenp Puffs.—Blancly two ounces of 









es 


ALM 


sweet almonds, and beat them fine with 
orange flower water, wnisk the whites of 
three eggs to a high froth, strew in a little 
sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the 
sugar and eggs, and add more sugar till 
as thick as paste. Lay it in cakes, and 
bake iton paper in a cool oven. 
Aumonp Purée.*—Boil the crumb of a 
very light rollin a pint of fish broth, boil 
it slowly until nearly dissolved, then mix 
in with it a few sweet and two bitter 
almonds, and three yolks ofeggs pounded, 
and moistened with the same broth. 
Stir altogether, pass it through some 
bunting, diluting it with more broth 
when too thick. 
Atmonv Rice.—Blanch sweet almonds, 
and pound them in a marble mortar 3 
mix them in a little boiling water; press 
them as long as there is milk in the al- 
monds, adding fresh water every time; 
to every quart of almond juice, put a 
quarter of a pound of rice and two tea- 
8 sful of orange flower water; mix 
them all together, and simmer it over a 
slow charcoal fire ; stir it repeatedly, and 
when done, sweeten it at pleasure ; serve 
if with beaten cinnamon strewed over. 
Amon (Bitter) Rolls.*—Blanch and 
pound eight ounces of almonds (five of 
sweet and three of bitter) toa very fine 
paste; then place eight ounces of flower 
on your slab ; makeahole in the middle, 
and put into it eight ounces of powder- 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a grain 
_ of salt; mix them all well together into a 
~ firm smooth paste ; roll it out and cut it 
into four equal parts; roll each piece to 
«the same length; cut them into pieces 
_ about the size of a walnut, and form them 
__to the shape of a wild turnip, and as you 
“ dothem put themona baking-tin lightly 
* buttered; dorez them and bake them ofa 


_-proper colour in a moderate oven. When 
i? 


ip oe taken from the oven, let them 
_ stand a little while to dry. 
__ Aumonp (Bitter) Souflé Franeais.*— 
Pound four ounces of bitter almonds to a 
ine paste as usual, then throw them into 
boiling milk (mine glasses) and three- 
quarters of a pound of sweet macaroons 5 
cover this fora quarter of an hour, and 
then strain it through a napkin. In the 
mean time wash a pound of Carolina rice 
in several waters, warm; put some cold 
water into asaucepan, and when it has 
boiled a few minutes, add to it the rice 
-in a sieve and the infusion of almonds; 
- when well boiled, pnt the saucepan on 
hot ashes, that the rice may burst gra- 
- dually. In three-quarters of an hour put 
to it ten ounces of powder-sugar, three 
quarters of a pound of good fresh butter, 
and a pinch of salt, stir them in well, put 
fresh cinders under the saucepan, and let 






os 
wm 


(9) 


ALM 


it boil gently for an hour; then, if the 
rice is quite tender, press it through a 
botting as for purée, and put it again.on 
hot ashes to keep it hot. Whip up 8ix- 
teen whites of eggs to a strong froth, an 
when pretty firm, take your rice cream 
from the fire and stir into it the sixteen 
yolks; this mixture should be of the con- 
sistenceofcréme palissiére, ifit be thicker 
dilute it with alittle liquid whipped cream. 
Vake at first a quarter of the whipped 
eggs, stir it as lightly as possible, then, 
by degrees mix in the rest. Have ready 
a crousiade eleven inches in diameter, 
and three inches and three-quarters high, 
but very thin; wrap round this three 
sheets of buttered paper,and bake it; when 
your preparation is thoroughly amalga- 
ciated, pour it into the eroustade, and 
bake for about two hours or two hours 
and a half in a moderate oven. When 
nearly ready to serve, place hot cinders 
ona large baking plate, take the sou/lé 
from the oven, put it on them, and while 
there cover it with pow@er-sugar, and 
glaze it with the salamander. Carry it 
to the dining-room as quick as possible, 
remove it carefully from the cinders, and 
place itin the dish with a napkin under- 
neath, take away the buttered papers, 
and the sowffé is then ready. 

Atmonp Milk Soup.*—Take half a 
pound of sweet almonds, put them on the 
fire with some water until near boiling, 
thes blanch and throw them into fresh 
water; drain and pound them. Boil a 
pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinna- 
mon, coriander, and lemon peel, for a 
quarter of an hour, and rub the al- 
monds through a sieve to this. Lay 
some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and 
pour the milk of almonds on it, as hot as 
possible without boiling. 

Amon p(yellow) Sweetmeats.*—Blanch 
a pound ot sweet almonds, wash them in 
cold water, and when quite dry, pound 
them witha sufficient quantity of yolks 
of eggs, into a fine but rather stiff paste : 
add to them a pound of powdered sugar 
and tke rinds of two lemons grated; 
knead the paste well with your hands, 
first sprinkling the table with sugar. 
Form the paste into what figures you 
please, such as fleur-de-lis, trefoil, &c. 
each being about the size and weight of a 
macaroon. Place them on white paper 
and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- 
derately hot stove. If they are ofa deep 
yellow, they are sufficiently done.— 
These sweetmeats may be still further 
ornamented in the following manner :— 
Boil some sugar in orange flower water 
to the degree called grande plume, and 
as soon as the sweetmeats are taken from 
the stove or oven, wash them over with 





ALM (10) 


alight brush dipped in the syrup; this 
will give them a delicious perfume, and 
they may then be called @ la glace. When 
cold, take them from the paper and put 
them into glasses for the table. 

AtMonpbs, @ la Terra Alicante (Spa- 
nish).*—Clarify honey, and stir into it as 
many blanched almonds as you can en- 
tangle. Leave it tocool. This makes a 
pretty crystaline ornament for the des- 
sert; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. 

AumonpD Tumbles.—Blanch and pound 
three ounces of almonds very fine, when 
almost beaten enough, take the white of 
an egg beaten to froth, one pound of 
double refined sugar well beaten, and put 
it in by degrees, working it into a paste 
with your hands, roll it out and bake it 
on buttered plates in a hot oven. 

Aumonn /Vafers.*—Take a pound of 
sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, 
add a pound of powder-sugar, a pinch of 
orange-flowers pralinée, put them intoa 
basin, and moisten them with a sufficient 
quantity of whites of eggs to enable you 
to spread the paste on wafer paper with 
the blade of a knife (the wafer paper 
must be rubbed with virgin wax and 
sweet oil); lay the preparation on as thin 
as possible; chop some sweet almonds 
very small, mix them with sugar,and strew 
them over the wafers and put them into 
a hot oven; when about half baked, take 
them out and cut them in squares; re- 
place them a minute in the oven, take 
them out again, and press them on a 
Stick to give them the proper form 3 as 
soon as they are cold, put them ona sieve. 
Just before they are served they should 
be slightly warmed. 

ALMOND(green) Compote of.*—Take the 
peel very carefully from your almonds, 
and put them with water on the fire till 
they are tender ; then take them off and 
add a little more water; when nearly 
cold put them on the fire again, but do 
not let them boil; as soon as you find the 
head of a pin will penetrate easily, they 
are then sufficiently done, and may be 
thrown into cold water; and when the 
fruit is quite cold,drain them. In the 
mean time put some clarified sugar on the 


fire, and when it boils put in thealinonds;. 


boil them in the sugar about twentytimes, 
then remove them, and let the almonds 
stand to take the suyar: in about two 
hours’ time putthem on the fire again, 
and boil them up a dozer times; after 
which, take them off, skim, and let them 
eool. When quite cool drain and put the 
fruit in a compotier. If the sugar should 


not be sufficiently done, boil as much more 


as you may think necessary 5 squeeze in 
the juice of an orange, boil it once again, 
and when nearly cold strain it through a 





ALM 


cloth into the compotier over the al- 
monds. . i i Aaa 


Aumonp (green) Marmalade.*—Take 
the down from green almonds as below 5 
boil them till tender, throw them into 
cold water, and then set them to drain 5 
break and pass them through a sieve 5 
put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, 
and for each pound put a pound of sugar 
and half a pint of water; boil and skim 
it, until, on dipping your finger first in 
the cold water, then in the sugar, it 
comes off clean; when you put it in the 
water again, add the marmalade; heat, 
but not boil, both together, and then put 
it into pots. RE ON 1 

Atmonp (green) Nonpareils—Drain 
some green almonds that have been pre- 
served in brandy; dip them one by one 
in sugar preparedaw cassée, and roll them 
in white, or any other coloured nonpa- 
reils, and dry them in a stove, or gentle 
oven. aryays 

Aumonp (green) Pickle.*~Boil vine- 
gar according to the quantity of pickle 
you wish to make 3 skim it well, and add 
to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper 5 
cut your almonds, (which should be quite 
young and soft,) in halves; put them into 


jars, and pour the vinegar over them. 


Yake care to have in each jar sufficient 


liquor to cover the almonds. 


‘ ALMOND(g7een) Preserved.*—Putsome 
water into a saucepan, with two handsful 
of bran, and when it has boiled up twice, — 
threw in some green almonds; let them 
boil up once, then take them out with a 
skimmer, and rub them well in your | 
hands to take off the down; as you do | 
this, throw them into cold water; then 
boil them in water till, on pricking them, 
a pin easily enters and they shrink: then 
clarify come sugar, a pound toa pound 
of fruit; boil up the syrup four or five 
successive days, morning and evening, ~ 
without the fruit, which you leave to — 
drain upon a sieve; lastly, put the fruit 
intoa pan,and when rather more than 
lukewarm, pour the syrup over it; when 
ye look very green they are sufficiently — 

one. 

Autmonp (green) Tarts.—Pull almonds 
from the tree before they sell; scrape 
off the down with a knife, and put them 
into a pan with cold water as fast as they 
are done; then put them into a skillet 
with more spring water, over a very slow 
fire, till theysimmer. Change the water 
twice, and let them lie in the last till 
tender; put them between two dry cloths 
and press them dry. Makea syrup 
with double refined sugar, and put them 
to simmer a little; repeat this the next 
day; put them in a stone jar and cover 
them close, as they turn black if exposed 


4 


ANC 


tothe air. The yellower they are when 
in the water, the greener they will be 
afterwards, Put them intoa sugar crust, 
lay the lid close, and cover them with 
syrup, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Almond (green) Turts may also be 
made like any other fruit tart, but the 
gle pprs must be very young and cut in 

alf. 

_ ALMOND (green) Pickle.—Boil vinegar 
according to the quantity of pickle you 
want, scum it and put in salt, mace, gin- 
ger, Jamaica and white pepper, put it 
into a jar, and let it stand till cold; then 
add the almonds cut in half, letting the 
liquor cover them. 

AMBER $Pudding.—Put a pound of 
butter intoasaucepan, with three-quarters 
of a pound of powder-sugar ; when melied 
and well mixed together, add the yolks 
of fifteen eggs beaten, and as much can- 
died orange beaten to a paste as will give 
colour and flavour to it. Line the dish 
with paste for turning out,and when filled 
with the above, lay a crust over, as you 

woulda pie, and bake ina slow oven. It 
may be eaten hot or cold. ; 

- AMIENS Pie.—Make a paste with 
about half a pound of flour, a pound of but- 
ter, salt, and warm water, and let it stand 
two hours before you use it. Truss a 
couple of ducks as for boiling 5 singe them 
well on a charcoal fire, and lard them 
with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, laurel 
powder, thyme, basil, nutmeg, cloves, 
cinnamon, and coriander ; make apretty 
thick raised pie, and cover the ducks in 
it with slices of bacon and plenty ef good 
butter; finish the pie, and bake it about 
three hours in a middling oven, then let 
it cool some time: mix three or four 
spoons{ul of richjelly bioth, with a quar- 
tec ofa pound of butier, and one spoon- 
ful of good brandy; boil these up toge- 
ther, and when the pieis about half cold, 

_ pourin the sauce, shake it well to dis- 
_ perse the gravy properly. The ducks 
should be stewed @ Ja braise before they 
are put into the pie. 

ANCHOVIES.*—Wasb halfadozen an- 
chovies, and take the meat from the bones; 
cut them into four fillets, place them on a 
dish with some sweet herbs, cut small; 
and the yolks and whites of hard eggs, 
also cut small. 

AncHovy Bufter.*—Wash your ancho- 
vies carefully, take out the bones, and dry 
them; then pound them in a mortar un- 
til they are reduced toa paste 5 and mix 
this paste with double the quantity of 
fresh butter. 

Ancnovies (Essence of ).—A pound of 
the best anchovies, two quarts of water, 
two bay leaves, some whole pepper, a 
little scraped horse-radish, a little thyme, 


(1) 


ANC 


two blades of mace, six shallots chopped 
small, a gill of port wine, half the rind 
of a lemon, a gill of catsup 3 boil them 
together for twenty minutes, then rub 
them through a tammy with a wooden 
spoon. When cold, put it into pint bot- 
bias cork them close, and keep in a dry 
ace. 

; Ancuovins (Farce fine of).*—Clean, 
take out the salt and bones fromm as many 
large anchovies as will afford you ten 
ounces of fillets, which simmer in four 
ounces of butter, with two spoonsful of 
sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and five 
drachms ofspiced salt. When cold, pound 
the anchovies for ten minutes with six 
ounces of milk panada 3; after that, add to 
them the butterand herbs, pound them 
together for five minutes longer; then 
put in four ounces of cray-fish butter and 
the yolks of three eggs; pound them with 
therest of the ingredients well, and then 
put it aside for use. 

ANCHOVIES (Fried).—Make a paste of 
fleur, a spoonful of oi], and a little white 
wine; take care that the paste is not too 
wet: having taken the salt from the an- 
chovies, dip them in the paste, and fry 
them of a good colour. 

* Ancnovies in Moulds.—Rub the inside 

of your moulds with butter, cut the an- 
chovies in narrow slips and soak them; 
lay them in the moulds with well sea- 
soned farce, aad the breast of a roast 
fowl cut in slips, and bake them; turn 
them into a dish with a little cullis sauce 
under them. 

Ancuovy Omele!.*—Wash the salt 
from a dozen anchovies, and jay them in 
cold water for a quarter of an hour; cut 
them in slips, and place them on thin 
slices of bread fried in oil. Beat up a 
dczen eggs and season them well, put 
some olive oil in a frying-pan, and when 
it begins to boil, put in half the eggs to 
form the omelet ; when done, place it on 
a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it ; 
then forma second omelet with the rest 
of the eggs, and put it over the toast. 
Serve with any sauce you please. 

AncHoviges with Parmesan. — Soak 
your anchovies well, and split each into 
four parts: cut some bread to the same 
shape and size, and fry it: put a little 
cullis ia the dish with chopped parsley, 
shallots, and grated parmesan; place the 
bread in this, and lay the anchovies on 
it. Pour over it a little cullis, and add 
a little lemon-juice, cover it with bread- 
crumbs and parmesan, and bake of a 
good colour. 

Ancnovies (Petits patés of).*—Roll. | 
outtwo-thirds of three-quarters ofa pound 
of puff paste into two thin layers, and cut 
them witha round paste-cutter, about two 





os ng 
aw Pe 





AND 


inches wide: take up the cuttings, punt 
them in the remainder of the paste, roll it 
outthin as before, place them on a baking- 
tin, slightly wetted, a quarter or half an 
inch apart; moisten them alittle, and lay 
on each some farce fine ofanchovies ; wash 
andscrape as many fillets of anchovies as 
you have petits patés, roll them into little 
balls, and place one onevery »d@/é, then 
lay over it the putf-paste, and press it 
down with another paste-cutter, halt an 
inch less in diameter than the former; 
turn up the edges of the paste, dorez thein 
highly, and bake them ofa reddish colour 
in aquick oven, . 

AncHovy Powder.—Pound the fish 
and rub them through a sieve, make into 
a paste with dried flour ; roll it iato thin 
cakes, and dry them before a slow fire. 
Pound it very fine, and put into well- 
corked bottles ; it will keep a long time. 

Ancuovy Salad.*—Dress a young 
cos-lettuce, as usual, garnished with eggs 
boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &ce. 
cut small. Add a dozen of anchovies 
well cleaned and cut in slips. 

Ancuovies Stuffed.*—Split, wash, and 
take the bones from the anchovies, and 
fill them with a good farce ; dip them in 
a batter and fry of a good colour. * 

AncHovy Sauce.—Toabout halfa pint” 
of melted butter, put two table-spoonsiul 
of good essence of anchovies, with the 
juice of halfalemon. Serve very hot. 

Ancuovy Sauce au beurre.*—Reduce 
some sauce Espugnole, and just before you 
want it for table, put into it a piece of an- 
chovy butter, about half the size ofan egg, 
and some lemon-juice: take care that the 
butter is warm, and keepstirring it, to mix 
it well withthe sauce. If youshould have 
no Hspagnole, any brown sauce you please 
may be used. 

Ancuovy Sauce au beurre.*—Wash 
some anchovies, take out the bones, and 
scale them. When they are quite dry, 
cut them in pieces, and pound them toa 
paste, and mix them up with double 
their weight of fresh butter. To makea 
sauce of this, put in some Spanish sauce 
when lukewarm, or some white wine; 
stew them together, stirring conti- 
nually. Lemon juice may be. added; 
strain it; if too thick, add a little con- 
somnée. 

Ancnovy Teast.*—Cutsome thin slices 
of bread aboutthe length and breadth ofa 
finger; fry them in oil. Placethemona 
dish, and pour on thema sauce made of 
oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsiey, sval- 
lion, and shallots, cut up tegether. Then 
cut the anchovies into thin slices, and 
lay them on the toast. 

ANDAYE Brandy.*—An ounce of 
bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised co- 


(12) 


ANG 


riander seed, two ounces of powdered 
Florence iris, the zestes of two oranges $ 
put them with three quarts. of distilled 
brandy intothealembic bain-marie ; dis- 
solve two pounds and a half of sugar in 
two pints and a half of clear river water, 
add them to the distilled liqueur, pass 
the whole through a strainer, and put: 
into bottles. ~ . 
ANGELICA Cakes.*—Take four ounces 
ofangelica powder, and two pounds of fine 
sugar. Beat up the white ofan egg with 
a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- 
sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the su- 
gar ina skilletand skim it; when it has 
builed a little, throw in the angelica, and 
boil the sugar to petit cassé; ther take it 
from the fire, putin half a spoonful of the 
beaten egg, and stir it quickly until the 
sugar rises, then stop, and when it has 
fallen again, stir till it risesa second time $ 
it may now be poured into moulds or paper 
cases, well ciled and sprinkled with sifted: 
sugar. ; 
ANGELICA (essence of) Jelly.—Having 
washed and well dried two ounces of 
angelica-roots; cut them in pieces and 
throw them into boiling syrup, (three 
quarters of a pound of sugar,) with an 
ounce of bruised angelica seeds; cover 
the mixture ciose, and when cold, add to 
it half a glass of A’rschwasser, and pass it 
througha tammy ; then filter, and after- 
wards put to it an ounce of isinglass: stir 
it lightly witha silver spoon; pound ten 
pounds ofice, and putit intea large sieve 
or pan, place your mould in the middle of 
the ice, taking care that it touches. the ice 
in every part; pour the jelly into the 
mould, cover it with a saucepan lid, put 
ice on that, and let it stand for three 
hours: after that time have ready a 
saucepan large enough to take in the 
mould easily ; fill it with water so warm 
that you can scarcely bear your hand in 
it; plunge the mould inso as to allow the 


water to pass over the whole, butas quickly - : 


as possible, and then turn the jelly into 
your dish for table. This last operation, 
should be performed with great agility. 
Observe, in making these kind of jellies, 
that no tinned or pewter vessels or spoons 
should be used. as they impart a violet 
tingeto your jellies, which ought to be of 
the colour of the ingredients employed, as 
for instance the above should be a clear 
light green colour. 
AnGeELica Ligueur.*—Wash,serape, and 
cut in small pieces, twelve ounces of fresh, 
or half the quantity of Bohemian angelica 
roots, and infuse them for a week in six 
pints of brandy and one of water,, with a 
drachm of mace, two drachms of cinna- 
mon, and twelve cloves; at the end of 
that time distil it then dissolve three 





— 


ANG 


mix it with the Zgueur,strain it through a 
-_jelly-bag, or filter itthrough paper. Ob- 


serve, that the best brandy for “7gueurs is 


_ that which is made at Montpelier, as it 
yields more in distillation than the Cog- 
niac. Take notice also that the first drops 
which fall from the alembic after it is 
placed onthe stove, must not be mixed 
with the liqueur. A glass should, there- 


fore, be placed under the mouth of the 


_alembic to receive them, and when about 
a quarter ofit is filled you may removeit, 
and place your bottles or matrass. The 
palin as these droppings are cal- 

ed, are good for nothing. 

Anceuica Paste. — Take young and 
pithy angelica stalks, boil them till ten- 
der, drain and press all the water out; 
“beat them ina mortar to a paste, and rub 
it through a sieve. Next day dry it over 
the fire, and to every pound of paste put 
a pound of powder sugar... When the 
paste is hot add the sugar, stirring it till 
thoroughly mixed, over a gentle fire. 

Drop it on plates, dusta little sugar over 

them, and dry themin a stove. 

* ANGELICA (preserved).* — Take the 
stalks of angelica when of a good size, but 
before they have run to seed ; clear off 
the leaves, and as you cut the stalks into 
proper lengths throw them into water, 
and boil them till the stalks are soft; 
take them from the fire, and put them 
into cold water; take off the skin, and 
again put them into cold water; then 
drain and put them into an earthen pan, 
and pour over a sufficient quantity of 
clarified sugar to float the angelica. In 
twenty-four hours boil the sugar ten or a 
dozen times, and when lukewarm pour 
it over the stalks. Proceed in the same 
way for four succeeding days; after 
which, drain the stalks, and in the mean- 
while boil thesugar, (adding more, if ne- 
cessary) tothe degree grande perlé ; put 
the angelica to this, cover it close, and 
let it boil five or six times. Take it from 
the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. 

ANGELICA (preserved dry).*—Proceed 
as for the liquid, until you have poured 
the sugar aw grund perlé over the ange- 
lica ; leave it for a day in the sugar, then 
drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, 
in a stove. 

Anceica, (Ratafia of).*—Take six 
pints of brandy, a pint of river water, 
three pounds of sugar, twoounces of fresh 
gathered angelica-roots, the same quan- 
tity of angelica seed ; mace and clove, a 
drachm of each. Washand dry the roots 
yell, cut them in slices, and put them, 
with the seeds and spices bruised, into 
the brandy, to infuse for twenty days; 
then strain it, and having added to it the 


(13) 
pounds of sugar in three pints of water}; 


ANI 


sugar disselved in river water, filter and 
bottle your ratafia. ie 

_Angevica Ratafia.*—Strip the ange- 
lica stalks of their leaves, and cut them 
into small pieces, which put into the best 
brandy and water, in the proportion of 
four litres of brandy and two of water to 
one pound of angelica, and fonr pounds 
of sugar to the same quantity; addcloves 
and cinnamon}; let it stand six weeks, 
then filter and bottle it. 

ANGELICA Tarf.—Pare and core some 
good apples, peel angelica stalks, and 
cut an equal quantity of each into small 
pieces; boil the apples with lemon peel 
and sugar, in sufficient water to cover 
them, until reduced to a thin syrup, 
Strain it, and then put it on the fire 
again, with the angelica, for about ten 
minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and 
put layers of apples and angelica alter- 
tweed till full. Fill up with syrup, and 

ake. 

Ancetica Vater.—Wash eight hands- 
ful of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them 
ona table todry. When quite dry, put 
them in an earthen pot with a gallon of 
strong wine lees. Let itstand twenty-four 
hours, stir it twice in that time, then put 
it intoa warm still or alembic; draw off 
into bottles, covered with paper pricked 
in holes, and let them stand thus two or 
three days. Sweeten it, and when it is 
settled, bottle, and stop it close. 

ANISE (small) Biscutts.*—Wash four 
drachms of starred anise, and éry it in 
the oven 3 work up the yolks of five eggs 
and a quarter of a pound of powder su- 
gar for about ten minutes; whip the 
whites to a strong froth, and mix them 
lightly with the yolks : add a quarter of 
a pound of dry sifted flour and the anise; 

our this paste into a paper case, eleven 
inches long by seven wide. Bake itina 
slow oven for about forty or fifty minutes, 
when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it 
is. cold remove the paper, and cut the bis- 
cuits into whatever forms you please: dry 
themin theoven until they become britue. 

Anise, (Petites Bouchées of).*—Roll 
out three-quarters of a pound of puff 
paste to about the eighth of an inch in 
thickness, and cut it out with a round 
paste-cutter, two jincbes in diameter; 
then with asmaller paste-cutter, (say the 
eighth of an inch less in diameter,) than 
the first, cut thirty of these rounds into 
rings; collect the cuttings of your paste 
and proceed in the same way. Moisten 
the upper side of the rounds'to receive 
the rings, which press on lightly, and as 
you do them, wet them again slightly. 
When all your rings are so far done, 
sprinkle them equally and lightly wit 
sugar, rt them on a baking tin, at equal 








ANI (14) AN1 


distances, and bake them ina quick oven. 
When done, the douchées should be a clear 
reddish colour, something like caramel 
sugar. Cover them with the whites of 
eggs whipped to a strong froth, and on 
this add red anise, and garnish them with 
cream blanche, white currant jelly, apri- 
cot or apple marmalade. These Jouchées 
may also be done in a similar way with 
white anise, in which case they should be 
garnished with red currant jelly, or whip- 
ped cream 4 la rose. 

AnIsEED Cakes.*—Put in an earthen 
pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and 
the yolks of ten eggs; stir them together 
with a wooden spoon for half°an hour. 


In the mean time have the whites of your | 


eggs whipped toa thick snow, and then 
pour in the sugar and yolks. When tho- 
roughly mixed, add an ounce of good 
aniseed, previously washed and dried, 
and ten ounces of flour; stir the whole 
gently, and then with a spoon lay it on 
white paper in cakes about the size of a 
crown-piece 3 sprinkle them with fine 
sugar, and bake. Remove them from 
the paper, while hot, with a knife. 
Anise Croquettes de . Verdun.*—Put 
four ounces of sifted flour, jour ounces of 
powéer sugar, and the yolks of five eggs 
into a small pan, and work them well to- 


gether for a quarter of an hour; then add - 


four drachms of anise éfoc/é, picked, 
washed, and dried in an even. Lay this 
preparation (the same as directed for cro- 
quettes @ la Parisienne) upon tins lightly 
buttered, then mask them with white 
anise, and let them bake in a mode- 
rate oven until they are coloured, then 
separate them from each other. 

ANISE petits Dents de Loup de Ver- 
dun.*—Put four ounces of silted flour, 
four ounces of sugar in powder, and the 
yolks of five eggs inte a small pan, and 
work them well together for a quarter of 
an hour; then add to them four drachms 
of anise étoilé, picked, washed, and dried 
in anoven. Put this preparation intotin 


moulds, in form of a yalousie, lightly but- 


tered, so that the dents de loup as they 
spread take the form of little xavettes, 
the length and thickness of your little 
finger ; then mask them all over with an 


‘ounce of white anise de Verdun. Put 


them to bake in a moderate oven, until 
they are ofa nice light colour; then se- 


‘parate them, take them out of the moulds, 
‘and place them’on a baking-tin to dryin 


the oven, to make them crisp. 

Antse étotlé @ lu Fromage Bavebiote ts 
Take two drachms of green anise, two 
drachms of.anise é¢oz/é, and halfa drachm 
of fennel seed, and half a drachm of co- 
riander seeds ; bruise the whole of them, 
put them into two glasses of scalding 


milk, in which you have previously dis-— 
solved eight ounces of powder sugars 
Let it infuse for one hour, then pass it. 
through a fine sieve or cloth. Then mix 
with it six drachms of isinglass; place it 
in your ice moulds; as soon as it begins 
to congeal add to it your fromage a la 
créme, and finish the same as green wal- 
nuts a Ja fromage bavarois. ps4 
ANISEED Genoise.*—This is made like 
the Almond Genoise, with the addition of 
a spoonful of green aniseed étoz/é, washed 
perfectly clean, put, instead of the almond 
paste, into the preparation ; and these are 
glazed with four ounces ofsugar, with red 
anise strewed over to finish them 
ANISE (white) Madelaines.*—Grate the 
zestes of two cedrats, oranges or lemons, 
upon a piece of sugar; then crush and 
mix it with powder sugar ; weigh nine 
ounces of it and put intoa saucepan, with 
halfa pound of sifted flour, four yolks and 
six whole eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye 
biandy,and a little salt; stir this mixture 
with a spatula, and continue stirring 
exactly one minute alter the whole is well 
incorporated, but nolonger. Then cla- 
rify ten ounces of butter, taking care to 
skim it whenever the milk rises to the 
top ; when quite clear pour it into another 
saucepan; as soon as itis a little cooled 
pour it into a madelaine mould, then 
turn it out of this into a second meuld, 
and so on until eight moulds are but- 
tered; then heat the butter again, and 
fill eight more moulds, and proceed in 
this manner until thirty-two moulds are 
thus prepared, which must be kept up- 
right that the butter may be preserved 
ineach. Putthe remainder of the butter 
to the paste, which place over a gentle 
stove, stirring it constantly to prevent its 
sticking to the saucepan, and as soon as 
your preparation becomes liquid (this the 
me!ted butter will very soon effect,) re- 
move it from the fire, and puta spoonful 
of it into each mould, and bake them ina 
moderate oven ; inabout five-and-twenty 
or thirty minutes try if they are firm, and 
if they are also a good colour take them 
out. Then boil a quarter of a pound of 
fine sugar to cassé, glaze the madelaines 
on one side by dipping it into the sugar, 
and as you take each cake out strew over 
it either red or white anise. . - 
ANISEED, ( O2/ of).*—Is made like ani- 
seed water, the only difference is, that 
an additional pound of sugar is necessary 
to make the syrup. © +» ©. #8 le , 
ANISE, (Petits Pains of).*—Put two 
glasses of water and two.ounces of fresh 
butter into a stew-pan, and. when the li- 
quid boils take it from the fire, and mix 
with it six ounces ofsifted flour ; amalga- 
mate it thoroughly, so that it may be 


ANI 


auive free from lumps; then dry it over 
the fire. Take it out of the saucepan, 
and add to it two eggs, and two ounces of 
powder sugar; mix them well in, and 
then put in two more eggs and the zeste 
of a lemon minced fine: when these are 
also well incorporated, add another egg 
or two, if the paste (which should be ra- 
ther firm,) will bearthem. Sprinkle your 
paste slab with flour, cut the paste into 
pieces, each the size of a walnut; roll 
these with as little flour as_ possible, to 
about three inches long, and as you roll 
them piace them on a baking-tin, two 
inches apart; dorez and bake them ina 
tolerably warm oven till they are firm. 
Then cut some anise into fillets, boil a 
gaortes of a pound of sugar to cassé, and 
the moment it reaches that degree set it 
by the side of the fire that the sugar may 
not lose its whiteness; dip the top and 
one side of each petét pain in the sugar as 
quick as possible, and as you take them 
eut, strew the anise over them lightly. 
Red anise is also used for these petits 
pains. ; 

_ ANIsEED Ratafia.*—To make a quart 
of this liqueur, boil a pound of sugar with 
a demisetier of water, until the sugar-is 
quite clear; then heat another demi- 
setier of water, and put in it three ounces 
of anise; take it from the fire before it 
boils; let it stand a quarter of an hour, 
and then pour it with three pintsof bran- 
dy into the sugar ; mix all well together, 
and then pour into a vessel, which must 
be closed tight, and placed in the sun. 
Let it stand three weeks, and then 
bottle it. 

. Anise Rells.*—Pound four ounces of 
sweet almonds in the usual manner, and 
make a paste aecording to the directions 
for almond rolls, with a quarter of a 
pound of flour ; the same of powder sugar, 
the yolks of two eggs, a spconful of the 
infusion of green anise, and a grain of 
salt. Cut the paste, roll and finish as in 
the above-mentioned recipe ; but before 
they are baked dorez and cover them 
with white Verdun anise. 

The ingredients for these rolls are a 
quarter of a pound of almonds, the same 
of flour, ditto powder sugar, two yolks of 
eggs, four ounces of white anise, and a 
drachm of infusion of green anise. 

AniseED /Vater.*——Choose eight 
ounces of new green anise, sift it: well to 
free it from the dust, and then infuse in 
six pints of brandy, with the zestes of 
three lemons, and half an ounce of cinna- 
mon; in a week’s time distil it over a 
moderate fire, put a pint of waterinto the 
alembic; take eare to collect the phlegm 
before you draw off the aniseed water. 
Dissolve three pounds of sugar in three 


APP 


pints of water. As the anise contains an 
acid salt, which renders this liqueur 
milky, the following proceeding is neces- 
sary :—Reserve a pint of the water from 
that in which you dissolved the sugar, 


and mix with the white of three or four. 


eggs, well whipped, and while the syrup 
is hot put to it this egg-water and the 
aniseed water; stir it over the fire until 
the whole is hot without boiling; then 
ut it into a glass jar, cork it well, and 
etit stand; the next day bottle and filter 
it. ; 

ANISETTE de Bordeaux.* — Take 
two ounces of green aniseed, halfa pound 
of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and 
the same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and 
put them, with sixteen pints of brandy, 
into an alembic. bain-marie. Then dis- 
solve thirteen pounds of sugar in two 
quarts of river water, which must be put 
to your liqueur when distilled. Filter 
and bottle it.. 

APPLES.*—Cooks, in choosing apples 
for culinary purposes, should always be 
guided by the weight, the heaviest being 
always the best ; and those are particu- 
larly. to be taken, which. upon being 
pressed by the thumb, yield with aslight 
cracking noise. Large apples possessing 
these qualities should be taken in pre- 
ference to small ones, as there is less 


waste in peeling and coring. The follow- 


ing is a good selection of large kitchen 
apples, arranged in the order of their 
maturity :— 

Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher, 
and Irish Codlin. 

Hawthornden. 

Hollandbury Pippin, calledalso Kirke’s 
Scarlet Admirahle. 

Wormsley Pippin. 

Blenheim Orange, called also Wood- 
stock Pippin. 

Dutch Codlin. # 

Beauty of Kent. 

Dumelow’s Seedling, called also Wel- 
lington. 

Yorkshire Greening. 

Royal Russet. 

For very early use the Carlisle codlin 
is the best, but it is not large: for very 
late use the London pippin, the French 
crab, and the Norfolk beaufin, are valu- 
able: the last is well known, as furnish- 
ing the dried apples, which are called 
beefins. 

Appies, Black-caps.— Divide twelve 
large apples in halves, core them, and 
place them onathin patty pan or mazarine, 
quite close to each other, with the flat 
side downwards; squeeze a lemon into 
two spoonsful of orange flower;water, 
which pour over them ;shred finesomele- 


maneneck throw it over them, and grate . 








= 


t» @ 


APP 
fine sugar all over. Set them ina quick 
oven, and bake them halfan hour. When 
served, strew fine sugar all over the dish. 
- Appies, (Black-cap of).—Pare them, 
lay them in your pan, strew a fewcloves 
over them, .a little lemon-peel cut very 
small, two or three blades of cinnamon, 
and some coarse sugar; cover the pan 
with brown paper, set it in an oven with 
paid i and let it stand till the oven is 
cold. 

Arpises, to bake whole.—Put some 
sound and well chosen apples into a pan, 
with a small proportion of cloves, alittle 
lemon-peel, some brown sugar, a glass 
or more of red wine, according to the 
quantity of fruit; put them into a quick 
oven, and bake them at least one hour. 
The sugar to be limited according to the 
quality of the apples. 

Apptes au beurre, with Apple Jelly.*— 
Take out the cores and turn fifteen small 
red apples, and boil them twice in six 
ounces of clarified sugar. Then peel 
twelve renneting apples, and cut them 
into quarters. Having reduced the syrup 
to.a souffié, put in yourrenneting apples 
with two ounces of lukewarm butter, an 
one-fourth of a pot ofapricot marmalade. 
Mix the whole well together, and boil 
them the same as in the receipt for 
apples au beurre a la minute. Whilst 
they are boiling, take your small red 
apples and cut each of them in half; 
then put them inte a mould (in the form 
of a dome,) lightly buttered, afterwards 
filling up the mould with the apples 
which were boiled in the butter; you 
then turn your mould on a dish, after- 
wards carefully removing it. Then stick 
in the half of each of your small red 
apples, a fine cherry, or a preserved ver- 
juice seed, and mask your entremet with 
jelly made with Rouen apples. Then 
serve. 

APPLES au beurre, with Cream.*— 
Peel, take out the cores, and cut into 
quarters, twenty renneting apples; boil 
ten of them with sugar, &c. the same as 
in the receipt of apples aw beurre a la 
minute, adding two spoonsful of fine su- 
gar, two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, 
and three of butter made lukewarm. 
Make the remaining ten apples into mar- 
malade, adding two ounces of fine sugar, 
and two spoonsful of apricot marmalde ; 
then put the apples which were boile¢ 
with the butter in a mould, (the form of 
a dome,) arranging them in such a man- 
ner as to leave a space all up the centre 
of your mould; then mask them with 
your marmalade, which should be first 
strained through a sieve, then fill up the 
space which you have left in the mould 
with any sort of boiling cream pdtissiére 


( 16) 


APP 


you please, Place a dish on your mould, 
turn it quickly over, and take it off with 
great care; then lightly mask your apples 
witha little cream, the same as what you 
put into your mould. Strew over the 
whole some crushed macaroons. = 

APPrLes au beurre, with Macaroons.°— 
This entremet is made exactly the same 
as epples au beurre with apple jelly, only 
instead of masking with apple jelly, you 
must mask with apricot marmalade, an 
strew your entremet all over with maca- 
roons cut extremely small. | 

APpPLEs au beurre @ la minute.*—Peel 
four-and-twenty Riga il apples, and 
cut them into quarters, and toss them up 
in a stew-pan with six ounces of sugar in 
powder, (over which should be grated 
the zest of an orange,) four ounces of — 
lukewarm butter and the fourth of a pot 
of marmalade. Then place your stew-pan 
upon the stove; put fire on the lid. 
When the apples are done pour them 
out upon a dish; pick out the best quar- 
ter and put them intoa buttered mould, 
six inches in diameter and four in height. 
Then pour in the rest of the apple with 
the rest of the ingredients. Placeadish 
on your mould, turn it quickly over, 
and carefully remove it; then mask the 
surface of your apples with apricot or 
quince marmalade, or apple or currant 
jelly, and serve. 

This dish should be executed as 
quickly as possible, to prevent the apples 
from getting cold. 

When you serve this entremet strew 
either some pistachio nuts chopped 
small, or dry currants mixed with 
pounded sugar, Over it. Pears may be 
prepared in the same manner. ; 

Appte Cake.*—Pare and core a dozen 
apples, and make them into marmalade, 
with the zes/e of a lemon and a little cin- 
namon, and pass them through a bolting ; 
put them into a stew-pan, with a spoon- 
ful of potatoe flour, half a pound of su- 
gar, and two ounces of butter; dry it 
over the fire, and when cold add to it 
six eggs, stir them well in, and having 
buttered a mould. pour your preparation 
into it, and bake it ina slow oven ; when 
done, turn it in a dish and serve it. 

Appts, Charlotte of.* (See Charlotte.) 

Appte Cheesecakes*. Pare, core, 
and boil twelve apples with sufficient 
water to mash them; beat them very 
smooth, add_ six yolks of eggs, the 
Juice of two lemons, and some grated 
lemon-peel, half a pound of fresh butter 
beaten to a cream,.and sweetened with 
este = sugar, beat it in with the apples. 

ake in’ a puff crust and serve open. 
, Appies, Compote.*—Cut some apples 
in half, core them, prick the skins with 





APP 


a knife and throw them into cold water ; 
then put them intoa pan with some cla- 
rified sugar, and stew them gently till 
tender; place the apples in a dish, and 
pour the syrup through a sieve over 
- them. ae 

App es, (Compote of).*—Pare and cut 
half a dozen fine apples in half, and put 
them into a pan with a little water and 
lemon-juice 3; then clarify half a pound 
of sugar, and when you have skimmed 
it putin your apples, and the juice ofa 
lemon; turn the apples frequently. As 
soon as you find the fork will penetrate 
them, they are sufficiently done, and 
may be taken out; strain and reduce 
the syrup}; strain it again, and then pour 
it over your apples, which may be served 
either hot or cold. Garnish with the 
peel of a very red apple, cut into various 
devices, and laid on the apples. 

Appuies, Whole.*—The proceeding is 
the sdme as the last, except that the 
apples, when pared, are not divided, 
and the cores are taken out with a 
piercer. 

AppLes, Stuffed with’ Apricots.*— 
Choose ten fine sound apples, and with 
an apple-scoep pierce out the cores and 
great part of the pulp, taking care that 
the apples preserve their firmness ; then 
pare and throw them into cold water, 
after which boil them as above directed ; 
when soft, take out the apples carefully, 
arrange them in the compotier, and fill 
each with apricot marmalade, covering 
the holes with round pieces of lemon- 
peel cut extremely thin; in the mean 
while clarify and boil the syrup to ped¢ 
disse, and when it has cooled a little pour 
it over the apples. 

Apres, (Croguettes of).*—-Prepare 
your apples as for dpple Cake, divide it 
into small pieces, roll them into balls, 
and dip them into an omelet; cover 
them with bread crumbs, and fry them ; 
as soon as they are of a good colour take 
them out, sprinkle sugar over, and serve 
them immediately. 

AppLes en Croustade.*—Form some 
croustade (raised crust, ) ina basket seven 


inches in diameter and three in height; | 


line the basket with buttered paper, and 
fill it with flour or beef suet chopped ; 
then ornament it, gild it, and let it bake 
toa nice light colour; when it is baked 
take out the flour or suet and the paper, 
and half fill the basket with apple mar- 
malade, (thirty apples made into mar- 
malade, the same as in the receipt for 


Apples Meringuées in form of a Hedge- | 


hog). Then peel, take out the cores, 
and turn eight apples; boil them quite 
white, and then fill up the place of the 
core with apricot marmalade, and put 


(17) 


APP 


them in the marmalade on your basket, 
placing one in the centre of the basket, 
and the other seven round it; filling up 
the spaces between with more apple 
marmalade, arranging it in such a way 
that your apples are half encrusted in 
the marmalade ; place upon the top of 


_each apple a fine cherry, then mask 


your entremet with apple jelly, which 
gives it a beautiful transparent appear- 
ance. Servethis entremet either hot or 
oe and garnish with apricot marma- 
ade. 

APPLE Custard, with butter and ce- 
drat.*—Pare and cut a dozen fine apples 
into quarters ; put them into.a stew-pan 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
the same of sugar, upon which you have 
grated the zeste of a cedrat. Half boil 
the apples, and then let them cool. In 
the mean time roll out some pufi-paste 
and cut it round, (about eleven inches in 
diameter.) turn up the edges two inches 
an@ put it on a baking-tin ; pinch upon ; 
decorate this lightly, and place in it the 
apples, arranging those quarters which 
are most done in the form of a crown 3 
then pour in the butter and sugar, in 
which your apples were done; take the 
remaining quarters and place them care- 
fully on the crown, soas to make a se- 
cond on that. Fix a strong paper, well 
buttered, round your custard, and putin 
a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour ; 
then remove the paper, dovez the crust 
lightly, and let it remain in the ovena 
few minutes longer. Sift the sugar over 
the crust, and glaze it. When it should 
be sent to table, mask it with apple, 
Cuero or apricot marmalade. Serve it 

ot. 

AprPLE Custard a la Portugaise.*— 
Take thirty fine apples, and pierce out 
the cores of ten of them which are of an 
equal size; pare and trim them neatly, 
and boil them in six ounces of sugar till 
pretty firm. Peeland cut the remaining 
apples very small, and put them into the 
above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, 
and mix with them; stir the whole con- 
stantly to prevent their sticking to the 
pan; when sufficiently done rub the 
marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. 
Prepare the crust as before mentioned , 
but dress the sidesa little higher ; mix 
two spoonsful of apricot marmalade with 
that of your apples, and then put four 
spoonsful of it into the eustard ; place 
the whole apples, (having put apricot 
marmalade in the place of the cores, )and 
then add the remainder of the apple mar- 


_malade, taking care not to cover the 


apples with it. Finish as above. At the- 
instant of serving it mask it with apple 
jelly, porient or quince marmalade. 








APP 


cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the 
top of each apple with a cherry or ver- 
_ juice-berry. Serve this hot or cold. 

AppLeE Dumplings.*—Choose six or 
eight good sized baking apples, pare 
them, roll out some good paste, divide it 
into as many pieces as you have apples ; 
roll and cut two rounds from each, put 
an apple en one piece and. put the other 
over; join the edges neatly, tie them in 
cloths, and boil them. . 

Arpte Dumplings (Baked).—Make 
them in the same way, but instead of 
tieing them in cloths lay them ina but- 
tered dish and bake them. 

Apptes (dried or baked, or tapées).— 
Choose the clearest of baking apples 
prick them rather deep with a pointed 
knife in several places, and put them in 
a moderate oven upon a baking plate; 
when half done squeeze them pretty flat 
with the hands, strew them on both sides 
with powder-sugar, and put them again 
into a soaking oven, with some more su- 
gar over them. Keep them in a dry 

place. 

Arpies Festooned, or en Farbalat.— 
Peel some golden pippins, core them 


whole, and stew them to three parts with. 


sugar and a little water; make the syrup 
pretty rich to clog to the apples; wrap 
them round with a thin paste, cut witha 
paste-cutter, and make knots or flowers 
with the same paste to put on the top of 
the apples; rasp some sugar over, and 
bake a very short time. 

Appues, (a Floating Island of ).—Bake 
or. scald eight or nine large apples ; when 
cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, 
beat this up with fine sugar ; put toit 
the whites of four or five eggs that have 
_ been beaten with a little rose water ; 

mix it a little at a time, and beat it till 
itis light; heap it onarich custard or 
on jelly. 

APpp_e Fool.—Stew apples as for goose- 
berry-fool, and then peel and pulp them; 
prepare the milk, &c. and mix as be- 
fore. 

Appies &@ la Frangtpane.—Peel and 
cote a dozen apples, slice them into a 
deep dish, over which shake some powder 
sugar, thinly spread it over with apricot 
jam, and very thin slices of fresh butter 
over that ; mix an ounce of potatoe flour 
with a pint of cream, a smali bit of butter 
and sugar to sweetenit; stir it over the 
fire till it begins to boil, then lay it over 
the apples, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Appie Fraze.—Cut apples into thick 
slices, and fry them of a clear light brown ; 


take them from the pan, and lay them to, 


drain; they may be pared or not; then 
make a batter. Take five eggs, leaving 
out two whites, beat them up with cream 


(18 ) 


-APP 


or flour, and a little white wine, make it 
of the consistence of pancake batter ; pour 
in @ little melted butter, mixed with 
nutmeg and sugar. Let the batter be 
hot, and drup in the fritters, laying on 
every one a slice of apple, and then a 
spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of 
a pale brown, when taken up, strew 
double-refined sugar alloverthem. ~~ 
Appte Fritters.—Beat the yolks of 
eight eggs, the whites of four, well to- 
gether, strain them into a pan; then 
take a quart of creain, make it moderately 
hot, and add two glasses of sack, three 
quarters of a pint of ale, and mix them 
well together. When it is cool, put to it 
the eggs, beating it well together, then 
add nutmeg and ginger grated, salt and 
flour at pleasure. ‘The batter should be 
pretty thick; then put in sliced apples, 
or scraped pippins, and fry them quick 
in butter. : ty (gi 
Appce Fritters.*—Pare, core, and cut 
your apples into quarters, soak them for 
two or three hours in brandy, sugar, 
green lemon-peel, and orange flower 
water; when’ they have thoroughly im- 
bibed the flavour of these ingredients, 
drain, and put them into a cloth well 
sprinkled with flour, and shake them so 
that the flour may adhere all over them 3 
fry them of a good colour, glaze with 
sugar and a hot salamander. ‘ 
Appts Fritters a la Dauphine.*—Torn 
twelve smal! apples, cut them into haiyes, 
and boil them in syrup, then leave them 
to cool. When they are cold, make an 
extremely thin crust with dréoche paste. 
Make a fritter for each half apple, then 
fry them and finish the same as Fritters 
a& la Dauphine. 
Pears cut into quarters, are made in 
the same manner as the above, . 
APPLES AND ALMONDs Petits Gateauzs.* 
—Proceed the same as above till the mar- 
malade is spread over the under-crust, 
then cover it with almonds cut in fillets, 
press them in lightly; mask them with 
powder-sugar and bake in a moderate 
oven. Assoonas cold, cut your gdteaux 
according to your fancy, either round, 
oblong, lozenge, or crescent-shaped. 
Apples. Petits Géateaux bandées.*— 
Having spread your marmalade on the 
paste in the usual manner, take some 
narrow Slips of paste, roll them, and la 
them about three-eighths of an ine 
apart diagonally over the marmalade; 
mark out the forms of your gdteaua, 
bake in a moderate oven, and cut them 
as usual. ‘i 
ArpLte Marmalade. Petits Giéiteaua.* 
—Make a marmalade of twenty-four ap- 
ples in the usual way, with a quarter of 
@ pound of sugar, and a quarter of a 


APP 


pot of apricots, and the zeste of a lemon, 
shred fine. Make your paste, and pro- 
ceed as directed for Petits Gateaux 
glacés of apricots. Sprinkle them (when 
marked) with powder-sugar. Bake them 
in a moderate oven and finish them. 
AppiE Petits Giteaux with Pista- 
chtos.*—Make an under-crust of the 
same size and thickness as directed for 
petits galeaux glacés of apricots, and 
cover it with apple marmalade; when 
baked, mash the apples with a little 
apricot marmalade, and strew over a 
quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts cut 
in small pieces, and then put it in the 
Oven again for a few minutes to dry the 
apricots. When cold cut them into the 
usual forms. 

Appies AND Pistacuios, (Gdteau Pa- 
restenne of ).*—Prepare and toss up a 
dozen apples for this gateau with apples 
and raisins, with the addition of two 
ounces of sugar, and instead of the zeste 
of an orange, grate that of a lemon, and 
put three ounces of pistachio nuts blanch- 
ed, in the place of the raisins. Proceed 
in the same manner as directed in that 
recipe, strewing on the dome of the 
gateau pistachio and sugar, each nut cut 
into six pieces; and when the.-crown is 
put round the band, place a pistachio 
nut in the middle of each meringue, bake 
it of a light colour in a slow oven, and 
serve it hot. 

APPLES AND Ralsins, (Gadteau Pari- 
gstenne of ).*—Pare and cut a dozen ap- 
see into quarters, and each quarter into 

our pieces, put.them into a pan with 
four ounces of good fresh butter, two of 
sugar, Over which the zeste of an orange 
has been grated, and a quarter ofa pound 
of currants well washed; toss up these 
ingredients over a moderate fire for a 
few minutes and then let them cool. 
Make a round under-crust seven inches 
in diameter, moister the edge and put 
on it a band of puff-paste three-quarters 
of an inch high and half an inch thick; 
put your apples, &c., in this so as to form 
a sort of dome, cover them with the puff- 

aste, taking care that it does not extend 
ferane the band, upon which it must be 
pressed down; wash it over with white 
of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for 
about an hour. When a little cooled, 
take the whites of two eggs, whipped to 
astrong froth and mixed with two ounces 
of powder-sugar, and mask with it your 
géteau, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; 
then, having drained and dried some 
currants, mix them with sugar, and strew 
them over the dome; form a crown of 
small meringues with the remainder of 
the white of egg, and place it on the 


band ; cover them witla sifted sugar, and | 


(19) 


APP 


colour the whole of a clear yellow in the 
oven, and then serve immediately. 

AppLes, Glacées.—Peel a dozen of ap- 
ples and leave the tails; gore at the op- 
posite side not quite through, and boil 
them with halfa pint of red wine, some 
sugar, and a spoonful of brandy, simmer 
slowly that they may not break; when 
nearly done, take them out, reduce the 
syrup to a earamel, and put in the ap- 
ples, rnbbing them all over with it; or 
you may wrap them in a paste. rasp sugas 
over, bake a short time, and glaze with 
a white glaze. 

ApPLE Jelly.*—Peel any kind of shar 
apples, cut them in slices, and ines 4 
them in several waters; then boil them 
in a covered pot with a goad deal of 
water, until it is much reduced and be- 
comes glutinous $ strain it througha thin 
cloth, measure it, and refiae an equal 
quantity of clarified sugar to the twelfth 
degree (au cassé,) and pour the apples 
into it, boil it up and skim it, boil again 
until it quits the spoon clear by dropping 
out of it. : ‘ch 

APPLE (clear) Paste is done in the same 
Way. 

AppLeE Marmalade.—Boil some pippins 
til they begin to get tender, then pus 
them into cold water; pare and core 
them ; squeeze the pulp through a sieve 
and put it over the fire, letting it remain 
till it becomes very thick ; then weighan 
equal quantity of fine sugar 3 boil it till 
the sugar arises in sparkles which cluster 
together; put the marmalade to it, and 
stir them well with a wooden spoon till 
the apple begins to boil ; then take it off 
and when a little cool, put it into pots, 
but do not cover them till quite cold. 

Appir Marmailade.*—Pare, core, and 
cut your apples into small pieces, put 
them into water with a little lemon-juice 
to keep them white. Take them out 
after a short time and drain them. 
Weigh, and put them into a stew-pan; 
if for present use, half a pound of sugar 
will be sufficient for each pound of ap- 
ples, but iffor keeping, double that quan- 
tity will be necessary. Add to ita stick 
of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon. 
Put the stew-pan over a brisk fire and 
cover it; when the apples are pulped stir 
the mixture till of the. proper consist- 
ence: then put the marmalade into pots. 

AppLes Meringuées.—Put some apple 
marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid: 
whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, 
mix with them two spoonsful of powder- 
sugar and a little lemon- peel chopped ex- 
tremelysmall ; decorate yourapples with 
this preparation, glaze them with sugar, 
and colour them in the oven. 

APPLE Meringue,—Lay a timbale paste 








! 
q 


APP " ¢20) APP 


ina tart pan, ege and prick it all over, 

and bake it; lay in it a purée of apples, 

and finish with white of egg, as for a la 
urque} serve it not. 

Appiss Meringuées in form of a Hedge 
Hog.*—Choose torty sound renneting 
apples; take out their cores, and turn 
fifteen of them, putting them as you turn 
them into cold water, (prepared the sa:ne 
as for the ‘Apples suédoise for the pont @ 
colonnes) ; when you have turned eight of 
the apples boil them in six ounces of 
clarified sugar} when they are sufficiently 
done (which is when they are alittle firm) 
take them out of the syrup and boil the 
other seven, which you must turn whilst 
the other eight are boiling; when these 
are done, add to the remaining.syrup the 
zest ofa Jemon, and put intuit the re- 
maining five and twenty apples nicely 
peeled and cut into thin slices; cover 
them closely, and let them boil over a 
moderate fire nntil they are quite tender ; 
then beat them with a spatula till they 
are reduced to a complete marmalade. 
Then, pass it through a sieve and add to 
it hal¥a pot of apricot marmalade. When 
itis coid spread two spoonsful of it on a 
dish, then take nine of the largest of the 
turned apples (filling up the place of the 
core with apricot marmalade), and place 
them on the marmalade in the dish, put- 
ting apple marmalade between each of 
them. Then fill up with apricot marma- 
lade the place of the cores in the other 
six apples, and put five of them over the 
nine in the dish, filling up the spaces with 
more apple marmalade, and place your 
remaining uppie at the top. With the 
rest ofthe apple marmalade, mask your 
apples in such a manner, that the entre- 
met forms a complete dome; then mix 
up pretty firm the whites of two eggs 
with two spoonsful of powder-segar, when 
it is well mixed, mask the apples all over 
with it as equally as possible, then strew 
it over with powder-sugar, and stick it 
all over with pieces of sweet almonds, 
(every almond must be cut into five equal 
strips), at about the distance of three 
eighths from each other, (the best way of 
sticking in these strips of almonds is by 
piercing the meringue of apple? with the 
point of asilver skewer). Your entremet 
being finished, strew overit some powder- 
sugar. Let it bake in a moderate oven ; 
ten minutes will be sufficient to do it of a 
nice light colour. Serve it hot. This 
entremet is very delicious, and is ex- 
tremely pretty in appearance, but takes 
a long time to prepare, and requires the 
greatest attention. This dish is generally 
garnished with pistachio nuts. 

AppLes Miroton.—Pare neatly, and 
seoop out the cores of a dozen and a half 


of apples: cut them in very thin slices, 
have a pan the size of your dish ready 5 
butter and spread some apricot jam over 
the bottom; place your apples over one: 
another in a méroton round the pan, and 
fill upthe centre with the odd bits ; spread 
jam and sugar over it, then lay another 
circle of apples the reverse way to the 
first row, and so proceed till you have 
laid five or six rows; Spread it over with 
jam, and bake it in a moderate oven} 
when done, carefully turn it on a dish, 
and serve it hot. Mee = ‘ 
Appxss Pralinées é lavanille. Mosaic 
Tartiets of.*—Make a marmalade witha 
dozen apples, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, and ahalf clove of vanilla, minced 
very small; when done and cold, mix 
with it two spoonfuls of apricot marma- 
lade. Fill your tartlets with this, cover 
them with the mosaic as directed (see 
Mosaic Tartlets), and mask them with a 
quarter ofa pound of almonds chopped 
smal], and mixed with two ounces of 
powder-sugar and a very little white of 
egg; press these lightly all over the sur- 
face of your tartlets, strew powder-sugar 
over, and bake them in a moderate oven 
till of a clear reddish tinge. 
Appies @ la None.—Prepare a dozen 
and a half of apples as for a la Turque}3 
let them be cold; roll out a thin tart 
paste, cut it in lengths of a foot and a 
half with a jigging iron, and twine it round 
the apples; fill them with preserved cher- 
ries and powder-sugar, close and egg 
them over, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Serve them kot. * 
AppLE Paste.*—Pare and core what- 
ever number of apples you may require, 
and having boiled them with a little cin- 
namon and lemon-peel to a pulp, pass 
them through a sieve; dry the marma- 
lade. Weigh it and boil an equal weight 
of sugar to petit beulé ; then mix the fruit 
with it, and boil the whole to a proper 
consistence; when done putitinto moulds, 
which place in a stove to dry the paste. 
APPLE Pie with Muscadel plums.*— 
Peei twenty renneting apples, cut them 
in quarters, and then cut each quarter 
into five or six pieces; toss them ina pan 
with four ounces of sugar in powder, (over 
which skould be grated the peel of a 
lemon), four ounces of butter luke warm, 
and four ounces of fine muscadel plums. 
Line the edge of a deep dish with a good 
pufl-paste, then put in your fruit, and 
cover your dish with a good putl-paste a 
quarter of an inch in thickness, glaze 
with the white ofan egg, and strew sugar 
over it. Let it bake an hour in a mode- 
rate oven, and serve it hot. 
Appiss & la Portugaise.*—Pare, core, 
and cut your apples in half; place them 


APP ( 21) AY? 


in your dish with clarified sugar; cover 
our fruit with powder-sugar, and bake 
t; when of a good colour take it out and 
serve it hot. 
_ APPLE (Poupeton of ).—Paresome good 
baking apples, take out the cores, and 
fe them into a skillet; toa pound anda 
alfof apples, put a quarter of a pound of 
Sugar, anda wine glass of water. Do them 
over a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, 
and keep them stirring. When of the 
consistence of a marmalade, let it stand 
till cool; beat up the yolks of four eggs, 
and stir in four table spoonsful of grated 
bread, and a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter; then form it into shape, bake it 
in a slow oven, turn it upside down ona 
plate, and serve it as an entremet. 

Appts Pudding (baked).—Pare and 

uarter four large apples ; boil them ten- 

er, with the rind of a lemon, in so little 
water that, when done, none may re- 
main; beat them quite fine in a mortar; 
add the crumb ofa small roll, four ounces 
of butter melted, the yolks of five and 
whites of three eggs, Juice of halfa lemon 
and sugar to taste; beat altogether and 
lay in a dish with paste to turn out. 

Appts Pudding a la Caapagne,*— 
Make a batter with two eggs, a pint of 
milk, and three or four spoonsful of flour ; 
pour it into a deep dish, and having pzre 
six or eight small 7 ia place them 
whole in the batter and bake it. 

Appts Pudding with cherries.*—Pee] 
thirty renneting apples, cut them in 

uarters, and then cut each quarter into 

our or five pieces, put them in a stew- 
pan with four ounces of fine sugar, four 
ounces of butter luke warm, and a pot of 
fine preserved cherries. When they are 
warmed througli, pour them out upon a 
dish. Prepare your paste, line your 
mould with it, put in your apples, and 
finish the same as in the receipt of Ap- 
ple Pudding @ la Frangazse. 

AppteE Pudding a -la créme.*— Peel 
and cut into quarters fifteen renneting 
apples ; stew them with three ounces of 
fine sugar in powder, and two ounces of 
luke warm butter, when they are just 
warmed through, pour them into a dish. 
.Prepare your paste, line your mould with 
it, and put in your apples, arranging 
them in such a way that you leave a 
space in the middle of your mould, which 
must be filled np with cream patissiere 
(cold), what sort you please; then finish 
your pudding according to the receipt of 
Apple Pudding @ la Frangaise. When 
ready to serve, mask it with apricot mar- 
malade, and strew crushed macarouns 
all over. 

Appts Pudding & la Frangaise.¥—To 


make the entremets properly, it is neces- 
sary to have a mould in the form of a 
dome four inches deep and six in: dias 
meter; this mould and its lid should be 
pierced all over, the same as a Skiminer. 
There should be a rim reund the ieee 
the dome that it may cover it so closely 
that all air may be excluded. ae 
Peel six and thirty small red apples, 
and cut them into quarters; toss them 
in a stew pan with four ounces of fine 
sugar (over which must be grated the 
rind ofa Maltese orange), and four ounces 
of butter luke warm; then place the stew- 
pan over the stove, with fire on the cover; 
when your apples are done, pour them 
into adish. Whilst they are cooling mix, 
up three-quarters of a pound of stiff 
paste ; then roll out halfof it to the thick- 
ness of the eighth of an inch. With this 
crust line the inside of your mould, which 
must be previously well buttered. Be 
careful that the paste lays quite flat, 
leaving a piece all round the edge of the 
mould, then putin the best quarters of 
the apples, and fill up the mould with 
the rest of the apples and their liquor, 
then roll out the rest of the paste very 
thin, into two parts, cut in rounds. 
Slightly moisten the paste which you 
have left round the edge of the mould, 


and place upon it one of the rounds of 


paste, pinching the edges carefully to- 
gether, then slightly moisten, and place 
upon it.your other round piece of paste, 
pinching the edge of this with the others 
to make it quite close, then cover them 
with the lid of the mould well buttered. 
Now, turn your mould over into the 
middle of a napkin, and tie up the corners 
of it close over the top of the dome, an 
put it into a saucepan (nine inches dee 
and nine wide) full of boiling water; an 
let it be kept constantly boiling for an 


hour anda half; wher it bas boiled for — 


this time, take it out of the saucepan, 
untie the napkin, take out the mould, 
remove the lid, place the mould on a 
dish, and then carefully take it off from 
the pudding; strew fine sugar. all over 
your pudding, and serve it quite hot. 
Appts Pudding with Muscudel plums.* 
—Pee] and take out the pips of some rene 
neting apples, cut them in quarters, and 
cut each quarter into five pieces. Put 
theni in a stew-pan, with four ounces of 
fine sugar (over which should be grated 
the rind of a lemon), four ounces of but- 
ter, lukewarm, and halfa pound of Mus- 
cadel plums, well washed and stoned. 
Then place your stew-pan on the fire with 
fire above. When theapples are warmed 
through, pour them on a dish, prepare 


your crust, line your mould with. it, put 








APP 


in your apples, and finish according to 
the receipt of Apple Pudding @ la Fran- 
Gaise. . Py 

Appie Pudding with Pistachio nuts.*— 
Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them 
in, quarters, and then cut each quarter 
into four or five pieces. Then put thein 
into a stew-pan with six ounces of fine 
sugar (over which should be grated the 
rind of a lemon), four ounces of butter, 
lukewarm, four ounces of green pista- 
chio nuts (whole), and rather more than 
half a pot of apricot marmalade ; let them 
stew till they are warmed through, then 
pour them intoa dish. Prepare your 
paste, line your mould, put in your ap- 
ples, and finish the same as in the receipt 
of Apple Pudding 4 la Frangaise. When 
itis ready to serve, mask it with apricot 
marmalade, and strew pistachio nuts, 
chopped small, over it. 

Appies (Purée of).—Peel and core a 
dozen or more good baking apples; set 
them over the fire to stew with some cla- 
rified sugar and a small bit of letmon- 
peel; when sort stir them well with a 
wooden spoon, and put ina spoonful of 
apricot jam ; stir it at times till the jam 
is mixed and the apples thicken, then 
rub the whole through a tammy. 

APPLES jn Rice.*—Scoop out the cores, 
and pare, very neatly, half a dozen gond- 
sized apples; boil them in thin, clarified 
sugar; let them imbibe the sugar, and 
be careful to preserve their form. Make 
a marmalade with some other apples, 
adding to it apricot marmalade, and four 
ounces of rice previously boiled in milk, 
with sugar and butter, and the yolks of 
two or three eggs; put them into a dish 
for table, surround it with a border of 
rice, and ‘place the whole apples in the 
rice, and marmalade and hake it. When 
done, put into each of the apples a tea- 
‘spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you 
may think proper. 

APPLES, 7n Rice.*—Pare, core,and cut 
four or five good apples in quarters; boil 
some rice in a cloth, and when soft put in 
the apples, tie it up very loose, and boil 
gently till sufficiently dene. 

APPLE Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice 
some apples; puta little water into the 
saucepan to prevent them from burning; 
add a bit of lemon peel ; when sufficiently 
done take vut the latter. Bruise the ap- 
ples, putina bitof butter,and sweeten it. 

AppPLeEs (Snow).—Scoop the core out of 
halfa dozen good apples, and fill thein 
with quince marmalade ; stew them ten- 
der in half a pint of water with some su- 
gar, lemon peel; and a little more mar- 
malade ; put the apples with the liquor in 
the dish ; beat the whites of six eggs to 


( 22 ) 


APP 


snow with orange flower-water, and su- 
gar tothe taste; cover the apples withit 
and bakethem halfan hour. = 

Apples. Soufflé Parisien.*—Make a 
marmalade of three dozen apples, half a 
pound of powder-sugar, the peel of a le- 
mon, and a glass of water; dry it as 
much as you possibly can, for on that the 
good appearance of the sonflé parisien 
chiefly depends; then put it into a large 
stew-pan. Whip the whites of fifteen 
eggs to astrong froth, with a pound of 
powder-sugar. Mix a quarter of this 
at first, with the apple marmalade, then 
stir the whole together, and pour it into 
a croustade prepared as usual. (See Sour- 
FLE.) Bake it for an hour in a moderate 
oven. Serve it as soon as possible after 
taking it from the oven. Glaze it with 
powder-sugar. Er sharia 

APPLES, Suédoise formant le pont @ 
colonnes.*—Peel, and take out the core 
of forty renneting apples. Take ten of 
them and cut them into thin slices, and 
then into long squares ; as you cut them 
throw them into four glasses of water, in 
which you have previously put two 
ounces of sugar and the juice of alemon. 
By this means the whiteness of the ap- 
ples will be preserved, for without the 
sugar and lemon they would turn red in 
the water; then take them outof the 
water and drain them, and then boil 
them in six ounces of clarified sugar ; do 
not let them boil too long, for if they 
lose their firmness you cannot. preserve 
their shape. Whilst they are. boiling, 
cut eight more of the apples into little 
columns with a couwp-racine one inch and 
a half in diameter, put them into the 
sugar and water, and boil them the same 
as the preceding, and then put them to 
drain on a large sieve, on which~ you 
should have previously placed the apples 
which were first Boiled. Then cut the 
remainder of the apples, and boil them in 
the rest of the syrup with the zeste of a 
lemon. Cover them closely to keep 
in the vapour whilst they are boiling ; 
after which you must keep constantly 
stirring until they are reduced to a mar- 
malade, then add to it half a pot of apri- 
cot marmalade, and continue boiling the 
whole until it flows readily, then pass it 
through a hair sieve, and put the mar- 
malade into a pan, which must be covered 
with paper slightly buttered. Then 
form some crumb of bread into a semi- 
circle three inches in diameter and four 
in length. Envelope this bread in moist- 
ened paper, and place it in the middle 
of a dish, and mask it in your apple mar- 
malade (the marmalade should be cold), 
placing it in such a manner as to forma 


APP (93 ) APP 


little bridge, then take away the crumb 
which has acted as a mould for the arch, 
round the arch place some seeds of ver- 
juice or preserved cherries; then mask 
the rest of the bridge with the slices of 
apple: all this must be done with great 
care, so that the bridge may have a 
pretty appearance; put at the four 
corners of the bridge, four columns of 
the apple prepared for this purpose, then 
cut some of the slices of the apple into 
squares, and place them on the top of 
the columns, so as to form a flat roof, 
upon this, place a brandy cherry; into 
this cherry you must stick a piece of an- 
_gelica to form a point for a finish to your 
eolumns. When you have finished your 
bridge, fill up the dish (underneath the 
bridge) with apple jelly. 

This entremet is usually garnished 
with angelica, pistachio, verjuice, cher- 
ries, apricot marmalade, gooseberries, 
quinces, &c. To form this entremet 
properly, you must carefully work from 
your model. 

APPLES Stewed in Jelly.—Cut your ap- 
ples in hali, peel and core them, and as 
you do them throwthem into culd water ; 
then cut two of them into small pieces, 
put the whole into clarified sugar witha 
glass of water and some lemon juice, and 
stew them; when sufficiently done lay 
them in a dish ; makea jelly of the syrup, 
and pass it through a bolting-cloth upon 
a silver plate, and let it cool and set; 
and when set, slide it carefully over the 
fruit. | 

AppLe Syrup.*—Take six apples, pare 
and cut thei into small pieces ; put them 
into a matrass with three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and two glasses of water}; 
stop it close and place it in a dain marie, 
and leave it about two hours, letting the 
water be boiling; movethe matrass fre- 
quently without taking it out of the wa- 
ter; this must be done carefully lest it 
skould break on being exposed to the cold 
air ; when done put cut the fire, and let 
the muatrass cool before you take it out. 
When the syrup is nearly cold flavour it 
with lemon juice, and add a spoonful of 
spirits of lemon or cinnamon, orange 
flower-water, or whatever else you may 


choose. Ifany dregs should arise, let it. 
stand for some hours longer, and then | 


gently pour the syrup into bottles. Great 


care must be taken to prevent its being | 


muddy. 

App.E Tart.—Pare, core, and cut the 
best sort of baking apples in small pieces, 
and lay them in a dish previously lined 
with a_ puff-crust; strew over them 
pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, nut- 
meg, cloves, and lemon peel chopped 
mall, then a layer of apples, then spice, 





and so on till the dish is full, pour over 
the whole a glass and a halfof white wine. 
Cover it with puff-crust, and bake it. 
When done, take off the crust and mix in 
with the apples two ounces of fresh but- 
ter, and then pour in two eggs well beaten ; 
lay the crust on again, and serve either 
hot or cold. You may add pounded al- 
monds and a little lemon juice. 

Appxe Tartlets.*—Turn a dozensmall, 


sound rennets, core and cut them across; ° 


put them into a preserving-pan witha 
glass of water, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, and the juice of a lemon; when 
sufficiently done, put the apples onasieve 
to drain. Prepare your tartlets accord- 
ingto the directions for Apricot Tartlets; 
put in each, a little apricot marmalade, 
and on that the half of an apple pre- 
viously filled with apricot marmalade, 
and bake them in a hot oven. In the 
mean time reduce the syrup to a thin 
jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets 
when baked, and finish them by placing 
a cherry, or, if they are not in season, 
a preserved verjuice-berry onthe top. — 

APpptes @ lu Turgque.—Neatly pare and 
pierce out the cores of eight or ten ap- 
ples, put them on the fire with a thin 
syrup of clarified sugar, cover them close 
and let them simmer gently; turn them, 
that both sides may be done. When 
thoroughly done lay them on a dish, 
with a wet paper over them. Put a paste 
round the dish you serve them in, and 
bake in a gentle oven to harden it, then 
put in a layer of apple purée, over which 
put the apples, and fill the holes where 
the cores were with dried cherries or 
apricot jam, then cover it with the apple 
purée; beat up the whites of six eggs to 
a froth, and add powder sugar till they 
appear quite smooth; make the apples 


warm, and lay the white of egg over - 


them, smooth it neatly over, and sift 
some powder sugarover it; colouritina 
gentle oven. 

AppLte Wine.—Add to a barrel of cy- 
der the herb scurlea, the quintessence 
of wine, a little nitre, and a pound of sy- 
rup of honey. Let it work in the cask 
till clear and well settled, then draw it off, 
and it will be little inferior to Rhenish, 
either in clearness, colour, and flavour. 

Appties, Codlings, to pickle.—Gather 
the codlings when of the size of a large 
double walnut; take a pan and makea 
thick layer of vine leaves at the bottom. 
Put in the codlings, cover them well with 
vine leaves and spring water, and put 
them over a slow fire till they are suffi- 
ciently tender to pare the skins with ease 
with a small sharp knife. Putthem into 
the same water, with vine leaves as be- 
fore; cover them close and set the pan 








WuPsP 


ata short distance from the fire, until 
they are ofa fine green; then drain them 
in a cullender till they are cold. Put 


them into jars with some mace, and a 
clove or two of garlick, according to the | 


quantity of the codlings, and cover them 


with distilled vinegar; pour over mutton | 


fat, and tie them down with a bladder 
and leather very tight. 
_Appces, green Codkings, to preserve.— 


. Gather the codlings when not bigger than 


French walnuts with the stalks and aleaf 


or two on each. Put a handful of vine | 
leaves into a preserving-nan, thena layer. 


of codlings, then vine leaves, and then 
codlings and vine leaves alternately, until 


it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly . 
strewed on the top, and fill the pan with 


spring water; cover it close to keep in 
the steam, and set it on a slow fre till the 
apples become soft. Take them out, and 
pare off the rinds with a pen-knife, and 
then put them into the same water again 
with the vine leaves, but taking care that 
the water is become quite cold, or it will 
cause them to crack; put in a little rock- 
allum and set them over a slow fire till 
they are green, when, take them out 
and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make 
a good syrup and give them a gentle boil 
three successive days; then put them in 
small jars with brandy paper over them, 
and tie them down tight. 

APPLES, golden Pippins, to preserve .— 
Take the rind of an orange and boil it 
very tender ; lay it in cold water for three 
days; take two dozen golden pippins, 
pare, core, and quarter them, and boil 
them to astrong jelly, and run it through 
ajelly-bag till it is clear; take the same 
qnantity of pippins, pare and core them, 
and put three pounds of loaf sugar in a 
preserving-pan with a pint and a half of 
spring water ; let it boil ; skim it well and 
put in your pippins, with the orange rind 
cut into long thin slips; then let them 
boil fast till the sugar becomes thick and 
will almost candy; then put in a pintand 
half of pippin jelly, and boil fast till the 
jelly is clear; then squeeze in the juice of 
a fine lemon; give the whole another boil, 
and put the pippins in pots er glasses 
with the orange peel. 

Lemen peel may be used instead of 
orange, but then it must only be boiled, 
and not soaked. 

Apptes, Pippins, preserved in shices.— 
When the pippins are prepared, but. not 
cored, cut them into slices; take their 
equal weight of loaf sugar; put to the su- 
gar a sufficient quantity of water ; Jet the 
sugar dissolve, skim it, and let it boil 

wagain very high ; then put the fruit into 
the syrup when they are clear; lay them 
in shallow glasses in which they are to 


{ 24 ) 










APR 


be served ; then put into the syrup acan-. 
died orange-peel cut into little slices very 
thin, and lay them about the pippin 5 
cover them with syrup and keep them 
about the pippin. 


APRICOTS (Bottled).* — Press the 


quantity of ripe apricots you may require — 
through a horse-hair sieve ; put the pulp 
into bottles, cork them very close, and 
tie them over; place these bottles up- 
right in a large saucepan, with hay be- 
tween to prevent their touching ; put the 


saucepan on the fire, and fill it with 
water. When the water is near boiling, 
take it off and let it stand till the bottles 
are cold ; then put them in a cellar, with- 
out touching each other, until wanted, 
when they will befound as géod to use as 
fresh fruit. Theapricots may also be pre- 
served whole by the same means. 
Apricots iz brandy.*-~Choose your 
apricots when quite ripe, let them be 
free from spots, rub them carefully with 
a linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh 
your fruit, and to each pound puta quar- 
ter ofa pound of sugar. Clarify it, and. 
boilitto the degree grand perlé, then 
put in the apricots: boil them three or 
four times, taking care to turn them fre- 
quently, that they may take the sugar in 
all parts. Take them off the fire, and 
put them one by one into glass bottles; 
the syrup being by this time nearly cold, 
pour the brandy (three demisetiers to 
each pound) into it by degrees, stirring 
constantly to mix it well with the syrup. 
When thoroughly incorporated, pour it 
into the bottles, the fruit at first will 
float; but when the brandy and sugar 
have soaked in they will sink to the bot- 
tom ; they are then fittoeat. 
Apricot Cakes.—Scald, peel, and take 
the stones from a pound of ripe apricots, 
beat them to a pulp, boi! half a pound of 
double-refined sugar with a little water, 
and skim it well; then putin your fruit, 
and sin:mer a quarter of an hour over a 
slow fire, stirring them gently all the 
time; put them into shallow glasses, and 
when cold turn them on glass plates ; put 
them ina stove, and turn them once a 
day till dry. . 
Apricots, Charlotte of.* — Choose 
twenty-four fine, plump, but not tooripe, 
apricots, pare and divide them into eight 
parts, toss them up in a quarter ofa 
pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of 
warm butter; in the mean time line a 
mould as directed (see CHARLOTTE) ; pour 
in the apricots, and finish as usual. When 
turned on your dish, cover it lightly with 
apricot marmalade, and serve it imme- 
diately. ; 
Apricot Chips. — Take apricots or 
peaches, pare them, and cut them very 





APR 
thin into chips; then take three-fourths 
of their weight in sugar, finely sifted, and 
put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and 
place it upona stuve of moderate heat; 
when the sugar is dissolved, turn the 
chips upon the edge of the dish, out of 
the syrup, and so set them by. Keep 
turning them until they have absorbed all 
the syrup, but take care that they never 
boil. They must be warmed in the syrup 
once, daily, and so laid out on the edge 
of the dish until, by repetition, all the 
syrup be drank up by them. 

Apricots (green) Compote of.*—Green 
apricots are done exactly the same as 
green almonds, See ALMONDS. 

Apricots, Compute of.*—Peel, cut, and 
take the stones from your fruit, and put 
them on the fire in a little water, and 
when they rise they are sufficiently done, 
‘and may be taken out, cooled,and drained. 
Then put them into a little clarified su- 
gar and give them three or four boilings; 
skim them well, and then put your fruit 
aside; boil the sugar alone four or five 
times more, and pour it over the apricots. 
When cold place them in the compoiicr. 

‘Apricots, 4Vhole.*—Choose the finest 
yellow, but not too ripe, apricots; take 
off the stalks, prick them on each side 
with a pin, make an incision with the 
point of a knife, through which extract 
the stone. Then put them on the fire 


with as much water as will cover them, | 


until near boiling, when, if soft, the apri- 
cots should be threwn into cold water; 


take care they are all equally tender. | 


Drain them ona burdle, and in the mean 
time clarify and boil some sugar to the 
degree you require; put in alittle water, 
and when it boils remove it from the fire, 
and add to it the fruit, and having given 
them a few boilings together, let them 
cool, then drain and place them in your 
compotiers. 

‘Apricots (Conserve of).*—Take half- 
ripe apricots, peel and cut them into 
thin slices, dry them over a gentle fire 5 
to four ounces of fruit put one pound of 
sugar, boiled to the degree la plume 
forte; when the sugar is nearly cold put 
inthe fruit, taking care to stir it well 
with aspoon, that they may be well incor- 
porated. ; 

Apricot Cream, @ la Frangaise.*—Cut 
inito pieces fifteen fine ripe apricots, choose 
them of a nice red colour. Boil them in 
four ounces of clarified sugar. _When re- 
duced to a.thin marmalade, beat them 
through a sieve; then boil four glasses of 
milk with six ounces of sugar and one 
grain of salt, and mix it by degrees with 
the yolks of eight eggs, constantly stirring 
it with a wooden spoon, then cream it 
over a moderate fire; after which it must 


(25) 






be very ripe. 


APR 


be strained through a sieve. Add six 
drachms of isinglass 3 as soon as it is cool, 
pour it gently on the apricot marmalade, 
stirring it gradually, until the whole is 
well mixed together, then pour it in a 
mould (which should be previously rubbed 
with oil of sweet almonds), then surround 
the mould with ice; cover your cream 
with a piece of paper or the lid ofa sauce- 
pan. _ After your cream has been in the 
mould for two hours, gently turn it out 
upon adish, and serve. 

The advantages arising from rubbing 
the moulds with oil of sweet almonds, is 
preventing the necessity of dipping the 
moulds into warm water to get the cream 
out easily, which is rather a long opera- 


‘tion. ~ 


Cream with Plum de seine-chaude is. 
made inthe same manner as the above; 
the proper quantity of plums to make use 
of are four-and-twenty, and they should 
Plums de mirabelle are 
done in the same way, and the same 
number (twenty-four) made use of. 

Apricor Custard, glazed.*—Cut twenty 
fine apricots in half, take out the stones 3 
toss up twelve apriccts in four ounces of 
powder-sugar, and place them in acream 
according to the directions for apple cus- 
tard; bake and glaze as therein-directed. 
Put a glass of water and a quarter of a 
pound of powder-sugar with the rest of 
the fruit into a preserving-pan; when 
the syrup is properly reduced, take the 
skin from the apricots and arrange them 
in the custard; garnish each half apricot 
with a kernel, and when ready to serve, 
pour the syrup onit. Serve hot or cold. 

Apricots, Fanchonettes of.*— Make 
your fanchonettes (see that Article) as 
usual, and garnish them lightly with 
apricot marmalade ; and when baked and 
cold fill them with this marmaiade, and 
finish as there directed. 

Apricots, Flan Parisien.*—Take five 
dozen very fine apricots, cut them in 
half, and put them, a few at a time, over 
the fire, with halfa pound of sugar and 
four glasses of water; as soon as you find 
the peel will come off easily, take them 
out and drain them, and put fresh apri- 
cots into the syrup, and proceed the 
same until all are peeled, then reduce 
the syrup to the usual consistence. Put 
a pound of rice, half a pound of butter, 
the same of sugar, on which grate the 
zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of raisins, into a sauce- . 
pan, and when it boils take it from the 
fire and put it on hot cinders, stirring it 
occasionally for an hour, when, if the. 
rice be quite soft, mix the yolks of ten 
eggs mee it. 





ee ee 


APR (25 ) 


Then make a croustade or raised crust, 
of nine inches diameter, and about five 
or six high, into this pour about a quarter 
of your preparation of rice, on which put 
a layer of apricots with two or three 
spoonsful of the syrup, then pour a second 
portion of rice, then the apricots and sy- 
rup, and so on twice more; tie a paper 
round the fax and put it in a brisk oven; 
when it has been in an hour, cover it, 
that the yellow tinge which it has ac- 
quired, by this time, may be preserved. 
This dish will take two hours and a half 
to bake properly. When ready to send 
to table, it may be covered with a large 
meringue, if you think proper. Observe 
that the rice and apricots should be cold 
when put into the croustade. 

Apricot Fritters a@ la Dauphine.*— 
Take twelve small apricots, cut them 
into halves, and boil them in syrup. Let 
them drain, and take off their peel. 
When they are cold make a very thin 
crust with drioche paste. and make a 
fritter for each of the halves of your 
apricots. Then fry them, and finish 
the same as fritters @ la Dauphine. 

Peach fritters are made in the same 

manner as the above. 
. Apricots (Fromage of).—Peel and 
stone eight or twelve ripe apricots, and 
pound them in a mortar with a little 
sugar, then rub them through a tammy 
with a new wooden spoon; mix in with 
this a little dissolved isinglass, and a 
pint of thick cream, well beaten. Con- 
tinue to whip it over ice till the isinglass 
is melted and blended with the fruit; 
then put it into a mould, round which 
heap ice and salt. If you do not attend 
particularly to the stirring over ice, the 
fruit will fall to the bottom. In winter 
time apricot marmalade must be used. 

Apricots @ la Fromage Bavaroise.*— 
Take. eighteen fine ripe apricots, let 
them be of a nice red colour. Cutthem 
into small pieces, and boil them in eight 
ounces of clarified sugar. When they 
are reduced to a complete marmalade 
beat them througha sieve. Then add 
to it six drachms of clarified isinglass 
and a glass: of good cream. Stir the 

reparation well together, and then 
eave it to ice. When it begins to set 
add to it whipt cream, and finish the 
same as in Green Walnuts d la Fromage 
Bavarnise. 

You may likewise mix your apricots 
with powdered sugar, and an hour after 
pass them raw through a fine sieve, 

Peaches may be done in the same 
manner as the above; the proper quan- 
tity of peaches to be made use of are 
fifteen. - 

Apricot Marmalade Petits Géteauz- 


APR 


fourrés.*—-Roll_ out some puff-paste, 
very thin, and divide it inte two equal 
parts, each of which should be thirteen 
inches long and eight wide. Moisten a 
baking-tin to hold one of these layers,. 


on which pour a pot of apricot marma-, 


lade, and spread it of an equal thickness 


to within half an inch of the edge of the | 


paste, which moisten lightly. Then roll 
the other layer round your rolling-pin, 
and begin to place it on the first: unroll 
it gradually and carefully, and thus 
cover the whole of your marmalade $3 
press the edges of both together: dorez 


the upper layer, and then with a knile. 


mark aline across the middle, taking 
care not to go so deep as to divide the 
paste; with equal care mark three lines 
on each side, and parallel. to the first, 
keeping them at equal distances, say two 
inches and a quarter between every line. 
Then mark it the long way, so as to 
make twenty-four cakes all of the same 
size, and bake it in a quick oven, and 
when the under side is of a clear yellow 
you may take it out and glaze it. When 
your gateauex are cold, divide them ac- 
cording to the. marks, which may be 
varied to your taste; either lozenge, 
crescents, circles, &c. When of the 


above-mentioned form, with the point of . 


a knife mark on each cake an ear of corn, 
or any other’design you may choose, be- 
fore baking. Take care in thus mark- 
ing the paste to divide, but not to cut 
it through. ; 


Apricots Petits Géteaux Glacés.*—_ 


Make an under crust of puff-paste as for 
these gdteausx fourrés, which cover with 
apricot marmalade, carefully removing 
any particles of the kernels which may 
be imit; put in a moderate oven, and 
when the paste is sufficiently done take 


it out, and let it-cool; then cut your 


gdteaux of the usual forms. The apri- 
cots should be of a reddish colour when 
glazed. ‘ 

Apricots, (Gdteaux Parisiens of ).*— 
Pare fifteen fine ripe apricots, divide 
them into quarters, and toss them up, 
(without putting them on the fire,) with 


a quarter of a pound ofgood fresh butter ~ 


melted, the same of powder sugar, with 
the zeste of a lemon grated on it. Break 
the stones, blanch and cut the kernels in 
half, and mix them with the fruit. Pre- 
pare your gdteaug exactly the same as 
Gateaux Parisiens of Apples ; put the 
apricots in very canes. and then 
finish as therein directed, only that sugar 
1s strewed over the top. , 

Apricots, PetitsGateaux Royaux.*— 
Make two layers of puff-paste, about 
fourteen inches square; mask one of 


them with apricot marmalade, on which — 





ew elise 


APR 


“put. the other layer ; cut out and finish 
‘your gateaux rovaux in the same way as 


those made of almonds, (see that recipe.) | 


Apricots and Hilberts, (Gimbleties 
‘of).*—Prepare some puff-paste, spread 
apricot. marmalade over it, and cover 
that with paste, as if for petits gateaua 
Jourrés, but making it thirteen inches 
“Square 5 then with a circular paste-cutter 
about two inches diameter, cut out 
the gimblettes ; then with another, only 
one inch across, take out the centre; cut 
a quarter of a pound of filberts very 
small, mix them with two ounces of 
‘powder-sugar and a little white of egg; 
dorez your rings or gimblettes, and lay 
them that side downwards on the fil- 
berts; then turn them the right way, 
place them on a baking-tin, sprinkle 
powder-sugar over, and bake themina 
moderate oven. These may be served 
either hot or cold. 
_ Apricot Ice.*—Choose about thirty 
tipe plump apricots, cut them in half, 
_ and take out the stones, and press them 
through a sieve; and for a pound of this 
pulp boil a pound of sugar to petit lissé ; 
mix them together and add a dozen of 
the kernels pounded, and infused in a 
glass of cold water with the juice of two 
lemons, and then strained through a 
tammy. Putthe whole into your sabo- 
tzerre till wanted. See Ice. 

Apricots in Jelly—Pare and stune 
your apricots, scald them a little, lay 
them ina pan, and cover them with cla- 
“rified sugar ; next day drain the syrup, 
and boil it smooth, then add the apricots 
and boil together; the following day make 
a jelly with codlings, boiling some apri- 
cots among them, to givea better flavour. 
‘When the jelly is done put in the other 
fruit with the syrup, and boil altogether, 
skim it well and putit in glasses. 

Apricot Jelly.*—Take eighteen fine 
apricots, let them beof anice red colour, 
stone them, and cut them in pieces 
into some syrup, (usuaily made with 
twelve ounces of sugar, but for apri- 
‘cot jelly it should be rather more liquid 
than for other jellies). When the fruit is 
done put it intoanapkin, to express out 
all the juice you possibly can; which 
‘you must add to the syrup in which the 
apricots have been done, and which has 
been previously strained through a silk 
sieve, and after having mixed with it a 
proper quantity of isinglass to thicken 
it, finish the same as all other jellies. 

Apricots, (Petits Livrets of.)*—Are 
made the same as apricot puffs, the only 
difference is, that they are cut of an ob- 
long form with a knife, instead of being 
semi-circular ;; they are usually about 


( 27 ) 


APR 
two inches and ahalflong, by two and 
aquarter wide. _— 

Apricot Marmalade.*—Peel the apri- 
cots, and take out the stenes; to each 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a 
pound of clarified sugar, boil it to the de- 
gree gros boulet, then put in the apricots, 
boil botk together: when it flows readily 


it may be put into pots. 


Apricot Marmalade.*—Take some 
fine apricots, and choose from amongst 
them those which are of the deepest yel- 
low and the ripest, (they must not be 
too ripe.) Peel them, take out the 
stones, and chop them up; weigh twelve 
pounds of them and put them into a 
preserving-pan, with nine pounds of 
powder-sugar; place your pan over a 
quick fire, and keep your preparation 
constantly stirring with a long wooden 
spoon. To find out when the marmalade 
is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall 
into a glass of cold water, and if they do 
not spread in the water your marmalade 
is ready to put into pots. . 

Another method of ascertaining when 
your marmalade is done is by taking 
some on the end of your finger and thumb, 
and just rub them together, and if on 
separating them you find the marmalade 
forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. 

Apricot Paste.*—Take the stones 
from as many apricots as you may re- 
quire, and reduce them to a marmalade 
over the fire; then rub them through a 
sieve, dry and weigh the marmalade, and 
boil an equal quantity of clarified sugar 
to peitt boulé, then add the fruit, aud 
mix it well in; put them on the fire and 
boil them together till sufficiently done $ 
then pour the paste into moulds, and 
dry it in a stove. 4 

Apricot Paste.—Peel and stone two 
pounds of ripe apricots, soak them pretty 
dry on the fire, and mash them very 
fine; adda pound of sugar prepared @ la 
grande plume; stir them well together 
on the fire till the paste quits the spoon ; 
finish it in meulds and dry it quick. 

Apricot Pickle.—Apricots must be 
gathered just belore they are ripe. Cover 
them with spring water well salted, and 
an equal quantity of bay and common salt; 
lay a thin board over to keep the fruit 
under water. When they have lain three 
days in water, take them out, wipe care- 
fully, and put them in ajar. Takeas 
much white wine vinegar as will fill the 
jar, and to every gallon puta pint of the 
best well mace mustard, two or three 
heads of garlick, plenty of sliced ginger, 
and halfan ounce ef cloves, mace, and 
nutmegs. Mix the pickle well together, 
and pour it over the apricots; tie it up 


D 2 





» 


A PUR 


. close, and it will be fit to eat in two 
months. — ee yin: k 
Apricot Pie.*—Linea dish with puff- 
paste, and then putin eighteen fine apri- 
cots, (cut in halves and the stones taken 
out,) with four ounces of sugar in pow- 
der, and four ounces of butter luke warm. 
Then lay on the upper crust, glaze with 
the white of egg, and strew sifted sugar 
allover. Let it bake in a moderate 
aka to a nice light colour. Serve it 
Mea: yee 
~ When you wish to serve it cold, you 
must leave out the butter. ~ 
~ Apricots @ la Portugaise.*—Take a 
dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in half, 
and'take out the stones; place them on 
asilver plate, and pour over some clari- 
fied sugar, with a little water ; put them 
on a Stove without covering them; when 
sufficiently done, take them from the 
fire, and strew sugar over; then put on 
the lid of the baking-pan under the fire, 
to mike them ofa good colour. 
Apricots, to preserve.—-Pare your 
apricots, and stone what you can whole, 
then give them a light boiling in water 
‘proportioned to the quantity of fruit, 
only just enough; then take the weight 
of the apricots in sugar, and take the li- 
quor in which they have boiled, and the 
sugar, and boil it till it comes to a sy- 
rup,and give them alight boiling, taking 
off the scum as it risés. When the syrup 
jellies it is enough; then take up the 
apricots and cover them with the jelly ; 
put cut paper over them, and lay them 
down when cold. 
~~ Apricots, to preserve Green.~Gather 
the apricots before they have stones,which 
you may discover by passing a pin through 
them; then coddie them in several wa- 
ters until they become quite green ; peel 
them and coddle them again ; then take 
their weight in sugar, and make asyrup; 
put to the sugar some water, then put in 
the apricots, and set them upon the fire 
to boil slowly till they be clear, skim- 
ming them often, when they wiil be quite 
‘green. Put them in glasses, and keep 
them for use. ) 
“Apricot Pudding.—Whisk up a pint 
of milk or cream, six eggs, four table- 
gpoonsful of fine flour, a little salt, and a 
small quantity of poundea cinnamon. Rub 
the nd ahve well through a hair sieve, 
-and add a sufficient quantity of the pulp 
ts make the whole a little thicker than 
batter; sweeten, and put it into a but- 
tered basin, and boil an hour and a quar- 
ter. Serve with melted butter. 
“Apricot Pudding a la Francaise.*— 
Take six-and-thirty nice fine red apri- 


» cots, cutthem in halves, and take out the 


( 28 ) 


APR 


stones, and rollthem ina pan with four 
ounces of powdered sugar. Prepare your 
crust, line your mould with it, put in 
your apricots, and finish the same as in 
the receipt for Apple Pudding 4 la 
Frangaise. ar 
Apricot Puffs.*—Roll out some puff- 
paste to about fifteen inches long, the 
eighth of an inch in thickness, and five 
or six inches wide: then lay on at equal 
distances, two inches from the edge of 
the paste, a small quantity of apricot 
marmalade; moisten the paste round 
each bit of marmalade, and turn the two 
inches of paste over, pressit down round 
the preserve so as to unite the upper and 
under crusts, and to keep the marmalade 
from spreading; and then with a circular 
paste, using half of it only, cut them out 
into semi-circular turnovers 5 place them. 
on a baking-tin, dorez and bake them in @ 
hot oven. When nearly done sprinkle 
them with sugar, and glaze them. 
Apricot Ratafia.—Peel and cut into 
pieces as many ripe apricots as you may 
require, and boil them in white wine 
(about a pint to four dozen); strain and 
mix it with an equal quantity of brandy ; 
put the whole into a jar, with the kernels 
bruised, add_a quarter of a pound of 
sugar to each pint. Let it infuse for 
three weeks, then filter and bottle it. . 
‘Apricots (Soufié Parisien of).*— 
Take forty-six fine ripe apricots cut in 
half and stoned, three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar in syrup, make a dry 
marmalade and pass it through a sieve. 
Whip eighteen whites of eggs to astrong 
froth, and mix two spoonstiul of it witk 
the marmalade, and when it has suffi- 
ciently softened the latter, mix all to- 
gether Jightly and pour it into a crous- 
tade, and finish as directed for Souflé 
Parisien of Apples. 
Apricot (Liquid) Sweetmeut or Pre- 
serve.*—Green apricots aré done in the 
same way as green almonds: the fruit must 
be taken before the stone is formed; when 
you puta pin through them. 
Apricot Sweetmeat whoie and dry.*— 
Choose fine firm apricots, make a little 
opening at the tup to take out the stone, 
put them into cold water, then blanch 
them over the fire; when they begin to 
boil, take out those which are soft, throw 
them into cold water, and drain them. 
In the meantime, prepare some clarified 
sugar to petit lissé. When it boils put it 
the apricots, and boil up a few times to- 
gether. The next day separate the su- 
gar from the fruit, boil @ /a nappe, and 
then pour it over the apricots again ; the 
following day boil the sugar pefz¢ perlé, 
then add the fruit, and boil together ; the 


——— 


APR (29 ) APR 


fourth day drain them} and, having 
placed them on iron plates, sprinkle 
them with sugar before you put them 
into the stove to dry; when dry, place in 
boxes in layers, placing a sheet of paper 
between each layer. 
* Apricot Syrup.—Take the stones from 
a pound of ripe apricots; peel and cut 
the kernels into small pieces; also cut 
up the apricots. Boil two pounds of su- 
gar, until on blowing it flies off insparks; 
then putin the kernels and fruit, and 
boii them together, until it forms a 
thread ; then strain through a sieve. The 
sugar must be put in proportion to the 
time you wish to keep the syrup; two 
pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit is 
the quantity to keep from one year to 
the other. 
Apricot Tart.—Cut each in two, and 
break the stones; if the fruit is not ripe 
enough, boil a little while in water, then 
drain them well; put them into paste 
with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and 
a few of the kernels; cover it, strew su- 
gar over, and glaze it. 
- Apricot Tartlets.*—Put a quarter of 
a pound of sugar, two glasses of water, 
and six fine ripe apricots cut in halves; 
when they have boiled up about a dozen 
times, take out the fruit with a fork and 
ut it into a plate; and do twelve more 
fevies in the same sugar; take them out 
2lso, and pare the whole number. Pass 
the sugar through a napkin, and then 
put it again into your preserving-pan to 
reduce the syrup and make it a little 
thicker. Dilute half a pound of flour, 
and make it into a fine but rather firm 
paste, roll it out very thin (to about the 
eighth of an inch); turn it over and cut 
from it twenty-four narrow slips; then 
spread out the remainder of your paste, 
and, with a round paste-cutter, two 
inches in diameter, cut. twenty-four 
cakes, and put them upon as many tart- 
let moulds lightly buttered ; do this with 
as much care as possible that no air may 
get between the mould and the paste. 
Roll each band or slip of paste on the 
slab with your hand, double and twist it 
into a cord, and having moistened the 
edges of the tartlets, put the cords round 
like frames; when all your tartlets are 
thus embellished, dorez the twisted 
bands, put a smal] quantity of powder- 
sugar in each tartlet, and on that lay an 
half apricot, the kernel-side downwards. 
Bake them in a quick oven, and when 
they are of the proper colour, which 
should be rather yellow, take them out, 
put on each a spoonful of the above- 
mentioned syrup, and finish them by 
placing half an apricot kernel on the 
top. 


Apricots Glazed, (Tourte of ).*—Lay 
down a puif-paste, and having moistened 
the edge, put a band round it, rather 
higher and thicker than. that of the 
gateauax (see Gateaux Parisienne of Apri- 
cots); take care to make this band join 
neatly, the best manner of doing which, 
is to cut the two ends bias, and then 
place them on each other, moisten, and 
press them together. Strew a spoonful 
of fine sugar over the bottom of the 
towrfe, and place on that twenty-four 
quarters of apricots each rolled in sugar 3 
take care that none of the sugar falls on 
the band as it would spoil the appear- 
ance of it, dorez the outside of it, and 
putit ina quick oven. In ten minutes 
see if the band. rises equally, and if 
it be compressed in any part, (which 
will sometimes cccurs either from the 
heat of the oven or inattention in mak- 
ing the paste), detach it with the 
point of a knife, and then replace it in 
the oven as quickly as possible ; when 
the ¢ourte is quite done, sift sugar over 
and glaze it. Then take eight fine plump 
apricots, and boil them in a syrup made 
with a quarter of a pound of sugar and a 
glass of water; when sufficiently done, 
drain, take off the skin, and divide the 


apricots; and having taken out the - 


stone, arrange them on the fourte like 
a crown, with a kernel on each; and 
just. before serving mask it with the 
syrup. 

Apricot Marmalade Praliné. _ Tourte 
of.*—Prepare the crust for the bottom 
of your tour/e as above directed: then 
roll out another layer of puff-paste very 
thin, and cut it out according to your 
fancy. Pour a pot of apricot marmalade 
on the under-crust, and spread it equally 
over it, leaving an inch all round, which 
must be slightly wetted; put the outer 
crust on the marmalade, press it down 
carefully, dorez the paste which covers 
the preserve, and cover it with two 
ounces of filberts cut extremely small, 
and mixed with two ounces of fine sugar 
and a very small quantity of white of 
egg. Then place your band round the 
lower crust as above described, dorez 
that also, and bake it in a quick oven. 
If the filberts colour too quickly, laya 
double paper over them. When the 
tourte is done glaze itas usual. 

Another way.*—Make your under- 
crust as usual, and spread the marma- 
lade over it; roll out the puff-paste very 
thin, sprinkle it with flour, and cut it in 
slips a quarter of an inch wide; lay 
some of these slips at equal distances 
across your marmalade, and others across 
them so as to form a net-work over the 
preserve. You may also lay the strips 





————— ee ee eee 


ABT 


of paste so as to form a star of as many 
points as you think proper. — 

' Apricot Wine.—Pare, and take the 
stones from ripe apricots, bruise and put 


them to six quarts of water and one of 


white wine, simmer gently for a consi- 
derable time : when the fruit is soft, pour 
the liquid to apricots, prepared as the 
others; let it stand twelve hours, stir- 
ring occasionally; pour off the liquid, 
and press the remains through afine hair 
bag, and put them together ina cask to 
ferment :' put in about a pound of sugar 
to each gallon.’ Boil an ounce of mace, 
and half an ounce of nutmeg, in a quart 
of white wine, and while hot pour it into 
the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch 
of fresh burrage in the cask for three days. 
Draw it off and keep in bottles. at 
‘AQUA ‘Mirabilis.—Take cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, galingal, cubebs, and 


cardamums, of each four drachms ; put 


to them two pints of the juice of’ celen- 
dine, one pint of the juice of spearmint; 
balm-juice, flowers of melilot, cowslip, 
rosemary, burrage, bugloss, and mari- 
yvolds, of each one drachm; carraway, 
Goriander, and fennel, of each four 


drachms ; four quarts of sack, and two of 


white wine ; the strongest brandy, angeli- 
ci water, and rose-water, of eachi a quart. 
Bruise the spices and seeds, and steep 
them with the herbs and flowers in their 
juices, waters, sack, wine, and brandy, 
all night. Next day distil it, and from 
these quantities may be drawn off two 
vallons. Sweeten it with sugar-candy. 
Keep it ina cool place in bottles. “°"" * 
ARTICHOKES anp AtMonDs, a me- 
lange.—Take half a pound of sweet al- 
monds blanched and beat fine, with two 
tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water ; 
then take a quart of cream, and boil it 
“with a small quantity of cinnamon and 
imace; sweeten it with fine sugar, and 
mix it with the almonds} stir them to- 
gether, and strain it through a sieve. 
‘Let the cream‘coo], and thicken it with 
the yolks of six eggs; then garnish a 
deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom; 
then put in’ shred artichoke bottoms, 
‘being first boiled; and upon these a 
little melted butter, shred citron, and 
candied orange; répeating the same 
until the dish is nearly full,then pour in 
the ‘cream, and ‘bake it ‘without a ‘lid. 
When it-is baked, grate sugar over it, 
and serve it “hot. ~Half an hour will 
serve to bake it. °' pa Me 
» AericHokEs & la Barigoule.*—Cut the 
ends of the leaves from three artichokes, 
and ‘blanch them for ‘about twenty mi- 
nutes in boiling water; Jet them cool, 
take° out the chokes and drain them; 
‘then fry them in very hot batter. Put 


( 30) 










ART 


into a saucepan half a pound of grate 
bacon, as much butter and oil, chop some 
mushrooms very small, with a spoonful 
of shred shallots, the same of parsley, 3 
little spice, salt and pepper, do these all 
up together, let the mixture cool, an 
then, having drained the artichokes, fill 
them with it,tie them up and braése the 
for three-quarters of an hour. Take 0 
the string and place the artichokes ir 
our dish, with a little espagnole or ¢ 
ight YOUR.» - a ty oh oF teOUt ' 
ARTICHOKES @ la Barigeule.*—Take 
two or three artichokes, according to the 
size of your dish, cut away the stalk and 
half the leaves; put them into a stew- 
pan with a little stock or water, two 
spoonsful of good oil, alittle'salt and pep- 
per, an onion, two roots, and a bunch 0 
sweet-herbs; boil the whole until th 
sauce is nearly consumed ; then try the 
artichokes to make them crisp; next, 
put them in a baking-dish with thé 
sauce that remains; take out the choke, 
and colour the Jeaves with a’salamander 
or in a hot oven ; serve with a sauce of 
oil, vinegar, saltand pepper. 
' AnticuoKes Botled.— Take six or eight 
youhg artichokes, cut and neatly trim 
them, throw them into cold water as you 
do them. Boil them for half an hour in 
boiling water, with a handful of salt, 
then drain, and place them on a dish; 
serve with melted butter, © 
- Articuoke Bottomsen Canapé.*—Rub 
as many artichoke bottoms as you may 
require with lemon-juice, and boil them 
in water with butter, salt, and lemon or 
verjuice ; when done take them out and 
drain them. Garnish them with hard 
yolks of eggs, fine herbs minced, truffles 
boiled and cut very small, capers, gher- 
hins, filets of anchovies, and carrots 5 
place thesé with the artichoke bottoms, 
in the table-dish, on a bed of parsley 
and ‘green cnions, seasoned with salt, 


pepper, oil, and vinegar. 

' ARTIcHOKE Bottoms a l’écarlate.*— 
Turn and boil fourteen artichoke bot- 
toms the same as for artichokes @ /a mag- 
nonndise, then cut off one-third’ from 
each of your artichokes. Then place 
them upright on the cut side two by two, 
in'a dish in the form of a crown. Cut 
seven slices from beef or ox palates, cut 
these again into semi-circles and orna- 
ment the outer ridges @ dents de loup, or 
notch them. Place these semi-circles 
between the artichoke bottoms. Then 
cut the remainder of the artichokes and 
the cuttings of the palates itt dice, 
which must be tossed in a magnonnaise a@ 
la ravigotte.’ Pour this into the centre 
of the crown or rather into the middle 


ofthe dish, ° 


ART 


_ You may also mask the artichoke bot- 
oms with a white magnonnaise, and serve 
slices of tongue in the centre of your 
rown, © eo wee ee 
_ This entremet is usually served with 
gil, and with ravigotte chopped very 
ie ped ve 
* Or you may serve a good mucedoine in 
the centie of the crown, or heads of as- 
aragus, or French beans @ la huile. 
*“ArticHoke Bottoms in Jelly.*—Turn 
and boil ten artichoke bottoms the same 
as for artichokes d@ la magnonndaise. 
When they are cold, carefully pare six 
of the finest, and cut the remaining four 
(with a root-cutter two inches or two 
inches and a quarter in diameter); in 
such a manner that each artichoke bot- 
tom shall give you three circles, these 
circles must all be of the same thickness. 
Place these circles two by two in a dish, 
in which you have previously put a suf- 
ficient quantity of aspick jelly to fill up 
the bottom of your dish. Place upon 
these little socles (which ought to be 
plored at equal distances) the six arti- 
hoke bottoms, so as to form a cup, and 
fill up the inside of them with aspick 
jelly. Garnish your dish either with 
‘Jelly or roots. a) pi ) 
~ Artichoke bottoms 4 /a macédoine, are 
prepares {i the same way as for arti- 
chokes d@ ‘la magnonnaise, but you gar- 
nish them on a dish en pyramide with a 
dessert spoonful of prepared macédoine, 
or small green French beans (vbree- 
quarters of an inch long), or heads of 
Wsparapus. °°?” 
“The artichokes for these entremets 
must'be marinated in salt, mzegnonette, 
oil, and tarragon vinegar, for two hours, 
1ey must then drain on a plate. 
~ ARTICHOKE Bottoms,da la Magnonnaise.* 
= Strip off the leaves from eight arti- 
hokes, and turn them; as you turn 
trem rub them over with the half of a 
lemon, and throw them into cold water. 
‘When your artichokes are thus pre- 
pared, put them ioto a middling-sized 
ster ban with boiling water. two ounces 
‘of butter, the juice of two lemons, and 
some salt; as soon as they boil, place 
the stew-pan by the side of the stove ; 
cover the‘artichokes with around piece 
of buttered paper, and leave them to 
simmer. When they have simmered 
until they are tender, drain them, take 
out the core, and dress them all rourd. 
Then let them marinate in a pan with 
oil, vinegar, salt, and whole pepper, 
for two hours; you must then drain 
them; after this, cut each artichoke into 
two parts, one part a little larger than 
the other; take the largest of the two 
‘parts, and cut them into two equal parts, 


(31 ) 


ART 


and place them on a dish in the form of 
a crown; then take the other parts, and 
cut them into two equal parts, the same 
as you cut the others, and place them 
in the form of acrown, over the others} 
this forms a double crown, and is a very 
pretty manner of serving this vegetable 
cold, as an entremet. When it is served, 
you pour into the middle of your crown 
a magnonnaise, either white or green. 
ARTICHOKE Bottoms (ragott of).— 
Trim them and boil with some good 
gravy, mushroom ketchup or powder, 
cayenne pepper and salt, thickened with 
a little flour. 
Articuokes. Blondins.*—Half boil 
some artichokes, and put them into a 
stew-pan with a slice of veal, a little ba- 
con, and some broth; Jet them stew till 
tender, then pour over them the yolks 
of three ezgs diluted with cream, and a 
little chopped parsley; let it. thicken, 
but not boil, and ser've it hot. 
ARTICHOKES en Caisson.*—Trim and 
boil young artichokes, take off the 
leaves and separate the bottoms; pound 
together strealied bacon and sausage- 
meat, and lay a little on an artichoke 
bottom, and cover it with another; dip 
them in batter or eggs beaten; strew 
them with bread crumbs, and fry them 
of'a fine colour ; place fried parsley un- 
der them. pate ip 
_AeticHoKeEs dried red.—Boil your ar- 
tichokes in water till soft, then take 
them out, pound some cochineal very 
fine, and mix in fresh water; boil the 
artichokes with thisa quarter of an hour, 
and then put them in bags to dry. 
ArticHokes Fried.—Cut your arti- 
chokes, according to their size, in four 
or eight pieces ; take out the choke and 
clear away the large leaves, wash them 
well in two or three waters, drain and 
then dip them ina paste made with flour, 
cream, and yolks’ of eggs; fry in oil or 
dripping. When you take them out of 
the frying-pan sprinkle them with salt, 
and serve on fried parsley. _ ; 
_ ARTICHOKES g/azed.—Blanch your ar- 
ticbokes, diy and place them in a stew- 
pan, with some onions sliced, some 
veal and lean bam and bacon; let them 
sweat gently till they begin to stick to 
the bottom, then moisten them with a 
little broth in which a knuckle of veal 
has been boiled ; when sufficiently done, 
pass the liquor through a napkin. Let 
it cool, and when it has become a jelly, 
pour it over the artichokes. 
ARTICHOKES @ ’ Italienne.*—Mix a 
little veal gravy with some butter and a 
little flour, crumble some bread into a 
dish and pour some of the sauce, and 
grate parmesan cheese over it; place 





ee 


ART Cae ART 


your artichokes on this; pour over the 


’ remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle 


over the whole grated bread and par- 
mesan cheese. Bake it of a good colour 
and serve very hot. 

ArvicHokes &@ la Lyonnaise.*—Take 
three large artichokes, and divide each 
into eight pieces, remove the hard parts, 
the choke, and nearly all the leaves; 
trim what rémains, and throw them into 
cold water as you do them}; wash and 
drain them well, spread half a pound of 
butter on the bottom ofa stew-pan, and 
Jay your artichokes on it, sprinkling 
them with salt and pepper: half an hour 
before they are wanted, put them over 
a brisk fire, cover the stew-pan and put 
fire on that also, taking care they do 
not burn. When they are of a nice light 
colour serve them, pouring the butter 
over them. ; 

ArrticHoxeEs, Pickled.—Boil some ar- 
tichokes till you can pull the leaves off, 
take out the choke and_ cut away the 
stalk; be careful that the knife does not 
touch the top. Throw them into salt 
and water 3 when they have lain an hour, 
take them out and drain them, then put 
them into jars or glasses, and put a little 
mace and sliced nutmeg between; fill 
them with the best vinegar and spring 
water. Cover your jars close. ; 

ArricHoKkeE Pie.—Boil twelve arti- 
chokes, break off the leaves and chokes, 
and take the bottoms clear from the 
stalks; line the dish with puff paste, and 
lay on it four ounces of fresh butter. 
Place a rowof artichokes, strew over 
them pepper, salt, and beaten mace, 
then a layer of artichokes; strew on 
more spice and a quarter of a pound of 
butter cut in small pieces. Boil half an 
ounce of truffles and morels, chopped 
small, in a quarter of a pint of water, 
and pour it into the pie, with a gill of 
white wine. Cover your pie and bake. 

ARTICHOKES preserved the Spanish 
way.—Take the largest artichokes, cut 
off the tops of the leaves. wash and well 
drain them; to every artichoke pour in 
a table-spoonful of Florence oil, and 
season them with pepper and salt. Bake 
them in an oven, and they will keep for 
ten or twelve months. 

Articnokes preserved whole.*—Choose 
middle-sized artichokes, take off all the 
useless leaves and trim them, plunge 
them into boiling, and then into cold 
water; when drained, put them into 
bottles, make them air-tight, surround 
the bottles with cloths, and place them 
ina kettle full of cold water, cover the 
lid also with wet clothes. When it has 
been boiling about two hours, take the 
kettle from the fire; in a quarter of an 


We ee | So rh} 3 
hour draw off the water and uncover the 
kettle; do not take out the bottles in 
less than an hour, the next day tar the 
bottles. — ays ee ad ae 

AnrTICHOKES, &@ la Provencale.*—Take 
five or six young artichokes, take away _ 
the largest leaves, and clear away the 
sharp edges. Blanch them in boiling 
water until you can take out the choke ; 
put into its place the following :—poun 
streaky bacon with some pig, or the 
white part of poultry or game. Place 
them atthe bottom of a stew-pan with 
some slices of bacon, parsley, and mo- 
rels cut small, salt, pepper, and a little 
salad oil. Let them stew until the un- 
der leaves are crisp. Serve with alittle 
veal gravy. Ste op 

Another way.*—Prepare three arti- 
chokes as for dariguule. Divide a dozen 
onions into quarters, which cut inte 
thin slices ; put them, with half a pound 
of butter, into a stew-pan; when lightly 
coloured, mix with them three pounded 
anchovies; stuff your artichokes with 
this and bratse them. Serve them with 
espagnole sauce, or alight roua. . 

ARTICHOKE Salad.*—Trim and blanch 
your artichokes; drain, cut them in quar- 
ters, and putthem in a dish; garnish the 
Spaces between each with sweet herbs, 
and dress it with the yolks of two eggs, a 
spoonful of vinegar, two spoonsful of oil, 
sweet herbs chopped fine, sait and pep- 
per. 

ARTICHOKES @ la St. Cloud.—Trim and 
boil them til! the chokes come out; then 
drain and let them cool; have ready as 
many small pigeons, stewed and well 
seasoned, as you have artichokes, each of 
which must be stuffed with a pigeon ; dip 
them in a good batter made of flour, eggs, 
aspoonful of oil, and a littlesalt; fry in 
a very hot pan with plenty of dripping. 

ARTICHOKES aux vergies.*—Trim three 
or four artichokes, season and dress them 
a la braise, Jet them drain and take out 
the choke ; serve them with the following 
sauce—a bit of butter rolled in flour, the 
yolks of two eggs, alittle vinegar, salt, 
and pepper ; when it has thickened over 
the fire, put in a few sour grapes, pre- 
viously boiled in a little water, and pour 
the whole over them. ' 

ARTICHOKE Suckers, the Spanish way. 
—Clean and wash them, and cut them 
in halves, boil them in water, and put 
them into 4 stew-pan with a little ae a 
little water, and a small quantity of 
vinegar; season them with pepper an 
salt; stew them a short time, and then 
thicken them with yolks of eggs. 

Or the following:—Clean them, ard 
half boil them; then dry them, flourthem, 
dip them in yolks of eggs, and fry them. 


ASP (33 ) ASP 


ARTICHOKE (Jerusalem.j)—They must 
be neatly peeled, and boiled very gently 
by the side of the stove, with a little salt 
in the water; when done (but not too 
much, or they will not look well) place 

hem on the dish, and serve with 
lain butter, or any other sauce you 
please. Linge 0 
* ASHEE Sauce.—Chop, very small, 
some pickled cucumbers, capers, pars- 
Tey, shal!ts, the breast of a boiled fowl, 
some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks 
of eggs; adda yood seasoned cullis, and 
a little mushroom ketchup; simmer all 
together a quarter ofan hour. © 
“ASPARAGUS Bodled.—Scrape and 
tie them in small bundles; cut them 
ever, boil them quick in salt and water ; 
lay them ona toast dipped in the water 
the asparagus was boiled in; pour 
over them melted butter, or fish sauce, 
Guves.ce 8° rion 
~~ Asparacus Bott/ed.*—Clean the as- 
paragus as for boiling. Before yon bottle 
hem plunge them first into boiling, then 
to cold water ; place those which are 
inbroken carefully into bottles, the heads 
downwards proceed in the same manner 
as in doing the artichokes. Ane 
~“ASparacus in Cream.*—Choose the 
finest asparagus, and dress it as’ usual 5 
parol half a pint of cream and a little 
utter, shake it about, and when the but- 
ter is melted, season it moderately, and 
pour it over the asparagus, 
“ ASPARAGUS en croustade.*—Mix up 
the yolks of four eggs in some paste d 
nouzlle, then form it into an undercrust, 
cut it into a band nineteen inches long, 
and two inches and a quarter wide. 
With the cuttings of your paste form a 
round six inchesin diameter’, and around 
this put your band in form of acroustade, 
pinch up your paste into proper shape, 
and ornament it lightly round ; gild it, 
and put it to dry in a slow oven; this 
done, take a fine head cf asparagus and 
place it, standing upright, in the middle 
of your croustade, surround this with 
six more heads of asparagus nine inches 
in length, surround these with twelve 
more, eight inches in length; round 
these put seventeen more, seven inches 
in length; add two more rounds of as- 
paragus heads, the one six inches, the 
other five inches in length. 

Great attention should be paid to the 
boiling of asparagus for this entremet, 
as it should be of a very nice green 
colour, and the moment it is sufficient] 
boiled (which is when it becomes firms) 
it should be put into cold water to cool 
it. This is an extremely pretty and or- 
namental way of serving this vegetable 
cold. It should be eaten with oil, 


Asparagus and Eggs.—Toast a slice 
of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish; 
butter some eggs thus: take four eggs, 
beat them well, put them into a sauce- 
pan with two ounces of butter, and a 
little salt, until of a sufficient consist- 
ence, and lay them on the toast ; mean- 
while boil some asparagus tender, cut 
the ends small, and lay them on the 
eggs. 

Asparagus and Eggs.*—Blanch some 
asparagus; cut it as fur asparagus pease, 
and stew itina little cream and butter; 


beat up a dozen eggs and fry them as for , 


an omelet; and when they begin to take, 
mix the asparagus in it; when of a good 
colour on both sides, serve it very hot. 
' Asparagus Fritada.* — Take young 
asparagus, break off the green heads, 
boil them till tender, then drain on 
a sieve. Beat up eggs, pepper, an 
salt; stir up the asparagus in the eggs, 
and fryin fritters. Dotheminoil.  — 
~ AsparaGus forced in French rolls.— 
Take out the crumb of three French 
rolls, by first cutting a piece of the top- 
crust off, and be careful that the crust 
fits again the same place. Fry the rolls 
brown in fresh butter; then take a pint 
of cream, the yolks of six eggs beat fine. 
a little salt and nutmeg; stir them well 
together over a slow fire tillit begins to 
thicken. Have prepared a hundred of 
small grass boiled, then save tops suffi- 
cient to stick the rolls with, the remain- 
der cut small and put into the cream, 
fill the loaves withthem. Before frying 
the rolls make holes thick in the top- 
crust, and stick the grass in; then lay 
on the piece of crust, and stick the grass 
in, that it may look as if it were growing, 

Asparacus Italian fashion.—Take the 
asparagus, break them in pieces, then 
boil them soft, and drain the water from 
them; take a little oil, water, and vine- 
gar, let it boil, season it with pepper 
and salt; throw in the asparagus, and 
thicken with the yolks of eggs. 

Endive done this way is good; the 


‘Spaniards add sugar, but that spoils 


them. Green pease done as above are 
very good; only adda lettuce cut small, 
and two or three onions, and leave out 
the eggs. 

Asparagus Pease.*—Cut some aspa- 
ragus to the form and size of pease, blanch 
them in boiling water, then put them in- 
to astew-pan with melted butter, parsley, 
scallions, and tarragon; moisten them 
with a little cream, add some sugar, and 
thicken it with the yolks of egys. 

Asparagus Pickled:—Cutand washthe 
green heads of the largest asparagus ; let 
them lie twoor three hours in cold water. 
Scald them very carefully in salt and 





| 


— 


ASP 


water, then lay them on a cloth to cool. 
Make a pickle according to the quantity 
of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar 
and bay salt, and boil it. To a gallon of 
pickle put two nutmegs, a quarter of an 
“ounce of mace, the same of whole white 
‘pepper, and pour the pickle hot over 
them. Cover the jar with a thick cloth, 
and let it stand a week, then boil the 
pickle; when it has stood another week, 

boil ita third time: when cold cover the 
jar close. 

Asparacus Ragoiit.—Scrape and clean 
some asparagus, use the prime part only; 
‘wash a head or two of endive, and a 
lettuce; cut them small; fry altogether 
till nearly dry in butter witha little shal- 
lot; shake in some flour, stir them about, 
put in some cullis pepper and salt; stew 
all till the sauce is thick enough 3 gar- 
nish with a few of the asparagus heads 
plain boiled. 

Asparacus Sallad.—Scale and cut oft 
the heads of large asparagus; boil them 
till nearly done; strain and put them in- 
to very cold water for five minutes, and 
drain them dry, afterwards lay them in 
rows ona dish; garnish with slices of 
lemon, and dressing as other sallads. 

Asparacus Soup with Green Pease.— 
Make a good soup of roots, and, when 
strained, boil a pint of green pease in part 
of the liquor. Choose some middling 
sized asparagus; cut them in pieces about 
three inches long, blanch them in boiling 
water, and then throw them into cold 
water; drain and tie them in small bun- 
dies; split the tips and boil them with 
the pease, when done make a purée of 
them, and mix it with the root soup, and 
garnish with the asparagus. Good meat 
broth may be used instead of the root 
soup. 

- ASPICK.*—Take a knuckle of veal, a 
knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, 
and if they will not make your jelly stiff 
enough, add two calf’s feet, or some 
swards of bacon rasped; put them intoa 
saucepan with a pint of rich stock, and 
sweat it over a stove till reduced toa 
glaze, then moisten it with stock, boil 
and skim it well. Put to it two onions, 
two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four 
cloves, two bay leaves, and a clove of 
garlick ; let the whole stew for seven 
hours, then strain, off the liquor or con- 
sommé. Break four eggs into a stewpan, 
and put to them the consommeé when cold, 
the juice of two lemons, and two spcons- 
ful of tarragon, and beat it with a whisk 
over the fire till near boiling, and when 
it does so, remove your stew-pan toa 
smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for 
halfan hour; then pass it through a wet 
napkin doubled. If the jelly is not suf- 


( 34 ) 


AUS 


ficiently clear, clarify it a second 
time. 5 ae 

Put a layer of this jelly, about half an 
inch thick, at the bottom of an aspick 
mould, garnish it with trufiles, whites 
of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c. according 
to your taste, pour in another half inch 
of the jelly, while liquid, with great care, 


so as not to discompose your garnish, - 


then put either call’s-brains, breasts of 
fowl, veal-sweetbreads, cocks?-combs, 
kidneys, fat-liver-, or game. Be sure 
to lay whatever you may use, as equal 
and smooth as possible, then fill up your 
mould with jelly, and let it stand till set. 
When wanted, dip the mould in hot 
water an instant, place your dish on the 
top and turn it over. I 

Asrick (clear).*—Puta littie mirepots, 
a glass of vinegar, a little whole pepper, 
and a handful of tarragon into a sauce- 
pan, boil them to a jejly, and then dilute 
it with two Jadlesful of fowl consommé ; 
set it by the side of the stove, take off 
the fat; clarify it with an egg and a 
little cold water, and pass it through a 
double napkin. Put the aspick in a 
bain-marte. Serveit with blanched tar- 
ragon leaves cut in lozenges. It is used 
as a sauce for fowls, fried fish, &c. 

Asrick of Chickens’ breasts.*—Toss up 
eight breasts of chickens, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and then leave them to 
cool. Put four ladlesful of velouté, and 
four spoonsful of jelly into a aah os 
and reduce them to half; then add the 
yolk of an egg, a little shred parsley, a 
bit of butter the size of an egg; mix 
them all together well and pour it over 
the chickens ; when cold put them in 
the aspick mould in layers with cocks’- 
combs, kidneys, fillets of chickens dressed 
like the breasts, and put in cold; dis- 
solve your jelly, fill up the mould with 
it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out 
as usual. . : 

Aspick (tile) & la moderne.*—Have 
ready eight small ¢émbale moulds, two 
inches and a half in diameter, and three 
high; fill and decorate them as the large 
aspick, Turn them out, and place one 
in the centre of your dish, six round it, 
and the eighth on that which stands in the 
centre. Garnish with a border of jelly, 
or coloured butter. 


Aspick Sauce.—Infuse chervil, tar-— 


ragon, burnet, garden cress, and mint, 
in some cullis for aboutan hour}; then 
strain, and add to it a spoonfu.o f vinegar, 
garlic, pepper, and salt. Serveit cold in 
a sauce boat. 

_ AUSTRIAN Soup.--Cutalarge chicken 
in pieces; fry it in butter with sweet 
herbs ; boil itin good broth, and then rall 
it in crumbs of bread and Parmesan cheese ; 


ae ee 








BAC 


colour it with a salamander. Lay thin 
slices of bread with grated Parmesan 
cheese on them, thena layer of cabbages 
with more slices of bread; add the broth, 
and stew till it catches a little at bottom 5 
grate on @ little more cheese ; brown it, 
add a little more broth, and serve the 
chicken at the top. 


B. 


BABA—Take three pounds offlour, one 
5 an of which put apart and mix into 

ough, witha gill of good yeast anda lit- 
tle warm water ; cover it close in a stew- 
pan andset it bythe fire to rise, when 
you see the dough rise and nearly ready, 
form the other parts of the flour ina cir- 
cle on the rable, in the centre of which 
put half an ounce of salt, one ounce of 
sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and 
twelve eggs, witha table-spoonful of saf- 
fron, (mix the butter and eggs well toge- 
ther before you putit to the flour); when 
allis mixed spread it out, and put the 
dough upon it, and knead it in well. 
When the yeast is nearly mixed in, add 
two pounds of raisins stoned, a few at a 
time, have ready two copper moulds but- 
tered, and put inthe dough; they must 
be only three parts full, and set in a 
warin place to rise very gently; when 
raised to the top of the mould, bake ina 
i a hot oven, a brick oven is the 

est. 

Bapa.*—Take the fourth part of two 
pounds of flour, lay it on your paste- 
board or slab, and having made a hole 
in the middle of it, put in half an ounce 
of yeast, work it up with one hand, 
whilst with the other you pour in warm 
water ; make it into a rather soft paste, 
put into a wooden bowl, first pricking it 
in a few places, cover it with a cloth 
and let it stand. When it has risen 
well, take the remainder of the flour, 
and spread it on the first made paste; 
mix them well together, adding to them 
half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound 
of fresh butter, half a pound of stoned 
raisins, two ounces of currants, half a 
zlass of Malaga wine, and alittle saffron 
in powder, Work them up together 
thoroughly, roll it out two or three 
times, and then let it stand for six hours 5 
then having buttered a mould, pour in 
your preparation and bake it. 

“BACCHIC Cream.*—Put a pint anda 
half of white wine, with some lemon peel, 
coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and 
three ounces of sugar, into astew-pan, and 
let them boil a quarter ofan hour ; then 
mix half a tea-spoonful of flour with the 
yolks of six eggs in another stewpan, and 


(35 ) 


BAC 


stirin by degrees the other previously 
boiled ingredients. When about half 
cold, strain the whole through a sieve 
and put it in a dish in hot water, over the 
fire, till the cream is set; lastly, take it 
out, and put itin a cool place till ready 
to serve. ; 

Baccuic Sauce.*—Put a spoonful of 
fine oil into a saucepan, with halfa pint 
of good stock and a pintof white wine, 
boil them together tiJ] reduced to nearly 
half; then putin some shallots, garden 
cress, tarragon, chervil, parsley, leeks, 
&c. all shred very fine, season with 
whole pepper and salt. Boil up the 
whole together onee; serve with a little 
cullis. This sauce is geod with any meat. 

BACON ¢o broi/.—Make up a sheet of 
paper into the form of a dripping-pan3 
cut your bacon into thin slices, cut off 
the rind, lay the bacon on the paper, 
put it upon the gridiron, set over a slow 
fire, and it will broil cleanly. 

Bacon and Cabbages.*— Boil some fine 
streaked bacon with a little stock, and the 
ends of eight or ten sausages 5 boil in the 
same stock some white cabbages for about 
two hours, add salt and spices, and serve 
very hot. Place your cablLages and 
sausages alternately round the dish, and 
the bacon in the middle. 

Bacon Cake.*—Cut three-quarters of a 
pound of streaked bacon in very thin 
slices, and put them into a stew-pan for. 
half an hour over a slow fire; then puta 
quartern anda halfof flour ona pie-buard 3 
make a hole in the middle, and pour into 
it the melted fat of the bacon, a little salt, 
and some water; knead the peste, and 
let it stand an hour to rise; then put in 
the slices of bacon at sinall distances from 
each other, so as with the paste to forma 
cake. Bake it an hour. 

Bacon, to dry.—Cut the leg of a young 
hog with a piece of the loin, and rub it 
well once a day, for three days, with 
saltpetre powdered, and brown sugar ; 
then salt it well to look red; let it lie 
for five or six weeks, and then hang it 
up to dry. 

Bacon and Kggs.*— Cut a quarter ofa 
pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, . 
and put them into a stew-pan over a slow 
fire, taking care to turn them frequently ; 
when sufficiently done, pour the melted 
fat of the bacon into a dish, break over it 
seven or eight egys, add two spoonsful of 
gravy, alittle saltand pepper, and stew 
the whole over a slow fire: pass a sala- 
mander over it, and serve. 

Bacon Fraze.—Beat eight eggs intoa, 
batter, a little cream and flour, fry some 
thin slices of bacen, and dipthem in it; 
lay the bacon in a frying-pan, pour a little 
batter over them; when one side is fried, 





BAC ( 36 ) 
BACQUILLIOwith herbs.—Soak your . 


turn, and pour more batter over them. 
When both sides are of a good colour, lay 
them on a dish and serve hot. ; 

- Bacon, Gammon, to bake.—Lay it to 
steep all night in water, scrape it clean, 
and stuff it with all manner of sweet 
herbs, as thyme, sage, savory, sweet mar- 
joram, penny-royal, strawberry leaves, 
violet leaves, and fennel; chop these 
small, and mix them with the yolks of 
hard eggs, pepper and nutmeg beaten, 
and boil it until tender. When it is 
cold pare off the under- side, pull off the 
skin, season it with pepper and nutmeg, 
and put it in a pie or pasty, with whole 
cloves and slices of raw bacon laid over 
it, and butter; close it, and bake it. 

Bacon (to make).*—Rub the flitches 
well with common salt, and let them lie 
so that the brine may run from them. 
In about a week rub off all the salt and 
put themintoatub. Then rub into the 
flitches a pound of saltpetre, pounded and 
heated ; the next day do the same with 
common salt, alse heated. Let them lie 
a week, often rubbing, then turn and rub 
them; do the same for three weeks ora 
month. Atthe end of that time dry and 
nang them up for use. 

Bacon Omelet.*—Cut some streaky 
bacon, which has been boiled for half an 
hour, into dice, and fry it simply with a 
bit of butter. When it begins to get 
crisp, pour into the frving-pan a dozen 
eggs (previously beaten), stir them well 
with the bacon, gather up the edges of 
the omelet, to keep it of a proper thick- 
ness. 

Bacon Tart.—Melt a pound of fat 
bacon in a frying-pan, and strain it with 
the bottoms of two or three artichokes, 
two macaroons, and the raw yolks of a 
couple of eggs; season with salt, pepper, 
beaten cinnamon, and sugar; then set 
it on the fire, stirring itcontinually with 
a spoon, then put it into a patty-pan 
upon a very thin sheet of paste, bake it 
for half an hour without any covering or 
paste, then ice it over with icing made 
of sugar and orange flower. water. 

“Bacon Toast.*—Cut off the ends of a 
stale brick, and lard the middle with 
streaked bacon; then with a very sharp 
knife cut the loaf in slices about a quarter 
ofan inch thick, dip them in egy, and 
fry gently in a very hot pan, until 
ofagoodcolour. Serve with clear sauce, 
with a little vinegar and pepper. 

~ Bacon Toast.*—Cut some thin slices of 
bread about two or three inches long, 
cut some streaked bacon in small pieces, 
dip them into a raw egg beaten up with 
shred parsley, green onions or shallots, 
and pepper ; fry over aslow fire and serve 
with clear sauce and a little vinegar in it. 


BAL 


fish well; then boil and take out all the 
bones. Wash and chop small some spi- 
nach, sorrel, green onions, and parsley 3. 
then add fresh butter, essence of ancho- 


-vies, cayenne pepper, and plenty of Se- 


ville orangejuice. Sweatthe herbs dowa, 
add the fish, and simmer till tender. — 

BADIANE, Indian.*—Take a pound 
of starred anise, pound and infuse it in 
six quarts of good brandy for a week, 
when.add to it a pint and a half of water, 
and distil it. Dissolve seven pounds 


and a half of sugar in seven pints of 


water, and addit to the distilled liqueur. 
Stir it well, strain and bottleit. 
This is also called Badiane Cream. 
Some persons colour it with a little co- 
chineal, itis then called O7/ of Badiane. 


BAIN Marte.—A flat vessel, contain- 


ing boiling water, meant to hold other 
sauce-pans, either for purposes of cookery 
or to keep dishes hot. The advantages 
of preserving the heat of dishes by the 


bain marie is this, that no change is ef- 


fected in the flavour of the ingredients. _ 

BAKING.—The following useful ob- 
servations, written by Mr. Turner, 
English and French Bread and Biscuit 
Baker, at the instance of the author of 


the Cook’s Oracle, ave printed in that 


very popular work :— 


‘Baking is one of the cheapest and. 
most convenient ways of dressing a din- 


ner in small families; and I may say, 


that the oven is often the only kitchen 


a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a 

joint of meat at home with his family. 
“*T do not mean to deny the superior 

excellence of roasting, to baking; but 


some joints, when baked, so nearly ap-- 
he same when roasted, that. 


proach to t 
[have known them to be carried to the 
table, and eaten as such with great satis 
faction. j 
*¢ Legs and loins of pork; legs of mut- 
ton; fillets of veal; and many other 
joints, will bake to great advantage. if 
the meat be good, 1 mean well fed,, ra- 
ther inclined to be fat; if the meat be 
poor, no baker can give satisfaction. 


** When bakinga joint of poor meat, ° 


before it has been half baked, Ihave seen 
it start from the bone, and shrivel up 
scarcely to be believed. 

‘* Besides those joints above-mention- 
ed, I shall enumerate a few other dishes 


which I can particularly recommend. 


See Pig, Goose, Buttock of Beef, Ham.”’ 
BALM Wine.—Boil twenty pounds of 


lump sugar in four gallons and a half of 


water gently for an hour, and putitina 
tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the 
tops of green balm. and put them intoa 
barrel with a little new yest, and when 


i a 


BAR 


the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the 
balm. Stir it well together, and Jet it 
stand twenty-four hours, stirring fre- 
quently; bring it up, and when it has 
stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump 


of sugar into each bottle; cork it tight. 


The longer it is kept the better it will 


ie. 
. BALSAM (Syrup of).—Put an ounce 


of balsam of tolu into a quart of spring 
water, and boil them two hours; adda 
pound of white pounded sugar-candy, and 
boil it halfan hourlonger. Take out the 
balsam, and strain the syrup twice; when 
cold, bottle it. 

BAMBOO (Knglish).—Cut the large 
youny shoots of elder, take off the outer 
peel or skin, and lay them in strong salt 
and water one night. Dry each piece 
separately in a cloth. Have ready a 
pickle made as follows: to a quart of 
vinegar put am ounce of white pepper, 
the same of sliced girger, a little mace 
and pimento, pour this boiling hot on the 
elder shoots, in a stone jar, stop it close, 
and setit by the fire two hours, turning it 
often. If not green when cold, strain off 
the liquor, boil, and pour it on as before. 

BANBURY Cakes. — Make some 
dough with two table spoonfuls of thick 
yeast, a gil of warm milk, and a pound 
of flour ; when it has worked alittle, mix 
with it half a pound of currants washed 
and picked, half a pound of candied 
orange and lemon peel cut small, all- 
spice, ginger, and nutmeg, of each a 


quarter of an ounce; mix the whole to- 


gether with half a pound of honey. Pat 
them into puff paste, cut in an oval form, 
cover and sift sugar over: bake thema 
quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. 
BARBADOES Cream.*—Take the 
zests of three fine cedrats, two drachms of 
cinnamon, and two of mace, and put 
them into three quarts of brandy; close 
the vessel hermetically, and let it infuse 
for a week, then distil it in an alembic. 
Dissolve over the fire three pounds of 
sugar ina quart of pure river water, add to 
it half a pound of orange flower water, 
work the mixture, and filter it through a 
straining bag into bottles for use. 
Barsapvoes Water.—Take the outer 
rind of eight large florentine citrons, half 
an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a gal- 
lon of rectified spirit; distil in the dain 
murie ; dissolve two pounds of sugar ina 
quart of water; mix it with the distilled 
liquor ; filter and bottle it for use. 
Barpavors Vater bnh eaten i 
—Infuse the yellow rind of six bergamots, 
half an ounce of cinnamon, and two 


drachms of cloves bruised, for six days. 


in a gallon of rectified spirit ; then adda 
drachm of saffron, and let the whole stand 


( 37 ) 


BAR 


six days longer. Dissolve two pounds of 
sugar in a quart of water, add it to the 
infusion, and filter for use. ~ 

BARBEL Bozled.—Boil them in salt 
and water: when sufficiently done, pour 
away part of the water, and put to the 
rest a pint of red wine, some salt and 
vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and 
the juice of alemon; boil these well to- 
gether with two or-three anchovies, then 
put in the fish, simmer a short time, and 
serve it with the sauce strained over it. 
Shrimps or oysters may be added. 

BarsBet Brotled.—Do them in white 


pepper, with sweet herbs chopped small, 


and butter. me 

Barset Broiled with Sauce a U huile.* 
—Take a barbel; gut it, scrape off the 
scales, wash it, let it drain; wipe it dry ; 
and split it down the back. Then ma- 
rinate it in oil, with salt and whole pep- 
per; broil it whole, being very careful 
not to let it burn. Sprinkle it with oil 5 
turn it, and take care that the white 
side is of anice colour; when it is broiled, 
dress it a dish, and garnish with slices of 
lemon (taking out the pips and the white); 
and serve with Sauce a Vhuile. 

Barset, & court bouillon. — Take 
a good sized barbel and draw it, 
but not seale it; Jay it on a dish and 
throw on it vinegar and salt, scalding 
hot; then put into your fish-pan, white 
wine, verjuice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
cloves, bay-leaves, onion, lemon or 
orange-peel, set it on the fire, and when 
it boils very fast, put in your barbel, and 
when boiled enough, take it up and serve 
it dry upona clean napkin 3; for garnish, 
parsley or garden cresses. 

Barpet, Poupeton of.—Scale, bone, 
and skin two or three barbels of a mo- 
derate size, lay the flesh on a table with 
the flesh of a good sized eel, some mush- 
rooms, parsley, and cives, minced and 
seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
and sweet basil shred; pound three 
or four cloves, with a dozen coriander 
seeds in amortar ; then putin the minced 
fish, with a good piece of butter, and 
pound all together; set these simmering 
in milk or cream, and about a quarter of 
a pound of crumb of bread; beat.ap in 
it the yolks of four eggs when it is thick- 
ened enough, and let it stand to cool; 
then put into a mortar the yolks of four 
raw eggs. and the bread and cream when 
it is cold, and pound it well together. 
Then make a ragoitit ofslices of barbel as 
follows; first pee! small mushrooms, cut 
some slices of barbel, rub them with 
melted butter and broil them; sect a 
saucepan over the fire with a piece of 
butter, si it is melted, put in a little 





BAR 


flour, and brown it; then put in the 
mushrooms, and let them have two or 
three turns; put ina little fish broth to 
moisten them. and salt, pepper, and a 
faggot of sweet herbs. When your bar- 
bel is broiled, take off the skin, cut the 
flesh into long slices, put them among 
the mushrooms in the same pan, with 
tails of cray-fish, and asparagus tops 
blanched ; let them simmer over a gentle 
fire. When all is enough, take the fat off 
yourragout, and put in some cullis of veal 
and ham; then take it off the fire, set 
it to cool; rub a saucepan with fresh 
butter, spread of the farce over it an 
inch thick, or more; beat up an egg, and 
rub it over it to make the farce lie the 
smoother, place your ragout in the bot- 
tom, cover the poupeton with the same 
farce, rub it over with beaten eggs, and 
bake itin an oven, or baking cover, wit 
fire over and under it, when it is baked 
turn it up-side down, make a hole in the 
middle of the farce, the bigness of acrown 
piece; pour in some cullis of cray-fish, 
and serve it hot. 

Bareeu Stewed.—Scale and guta large 
barbel, wash it first in vinegar and salt, 
afterwards in water; put it into a stew- 
gan, with eel broth sufficient to cover 
it; add some cloves, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a bit of cinnamon; let them 
stew gently till the fish is done, then 
take it out, thicken the sauce with butter 
and flour, and pour over the fish. 

BarseE., to Stew.—Scald and draw the 
barbels, then put some wine, fresh but- 
ter, pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs into the stew-pan, and put in the 
fish; knead a bit of butter with a little 
flour; and when they are ready, put 
it in to thicken the same, and serve 
it up. 

Another way.—Some use no butter, 
but otherwise dress them as above; and 
when they are stewed, they serve them 
with a ragout made of mushrooms, truf- 
fles, morels, artichoke bottoms, fresh 
butter, pepper and salt, broth made of 
fish, or juice of onions. 

BARBERRY Biscuits.—Press the 
juice through a sieve from two peunds 
of barberries, and mix with it five pounds 
of sifted sugar; whisk the whites of four 
eggs and add them to the fruit; pre- 
pare some square paper cases, fill them 
with the jam, make them quite smoogh, 
lay them on sieves, and put them into a 
stove, and let them remain six or eight 
days. When perfectly dry, take away 
the papers : keep them in a dry place. 

Barserries, to Candy.—Take the 
barberries out of the preserve, and wash 
off the syrup in warm water; then sift 


over them some fine sugar, and set them | 


(38) 


BAR 

in an oven, often moving them, and 

ete. sugar upon them until they are 
ry. riggs re ° Oo 


Barserry Conserve.*—Put a pound - 


of ripe barberries and half an ounce of 


powdered fennel seed into a silver vessel, 
with a glass of water; boil them three or 


four times, and press the juice through a 
sieve. Replace the vessel en the fire 
with the juice, and add to it a pound and 
ahalfofsugar, boiled az cassé.. Boil to- 
gether a few times, and then pour the 
conserve into cases. (deni 
BarBerry Conserve.*—Take out the 
seeds from a pound and a half of very 
ripe barberries, put some water intoa 
deep silver dish or pan, and putin your 
barberries as you seed them; after this 
boil them with one ounce of powdered 
fennel seed until the barberries aré 
broken; then squeeze them in a sieve 


or through a cloth, to extract the juice 


from them} clean the vessel in which 
you put your barberries at first; and 
put into it the juice just extracted from 
the fruit, and pour on it two pounds 


of sugar boiled aw cassé; then boil this 


preparation until the sugar is done to 
petit cassé; then take it off the fire and 
stir it with a spoon until the sugar bub- 
bles up; then pouritinto moulds. 

Barserry Drops.—Cut off the black 
tops, and roast the fruit before the fire 
till soft enough to pulp with a silver 
spoon through a sieve into a china basin, 
then set the basin in a saucepan of water 
the size of the top of the basin, and stir 
the barberries till they become thick. 
When cold, put to every pint, a pound 
and a half of the best sugar pounded as 
fine as possible. 
gar together for two hours and a haif (er 
more for a large quantity), then drop it 
on sheets of white thick paper. If, when 
you drop, it runs, there is not sugar 
enough, and it will look rough if you put 
too much. 

Barzerry Ice.—Put some barber- 
ries into a pan without water, set it 


over a gentle fire, stirring them constant+" 


ly; when warm, pass them through a 
sieve, into a pan, add to the liquor clari- 
fied sugar ; if too thick, puta little water, 
but no lemon juice. as the barberries are 
sufficiently acid without ; then put it into 
the sabotiére to congeal. 

Barpserry Ice Cream.—Put a large 
spoonful of barberry jam into a pint of 
cream; add the juice of a lemon anda 
little cochiveal; stir it well, and finish as 
directed, see Icr. dy 

Barperry Ice (Water). —Mix one 
spoonful ot barberry jam with the juice 
‘fa lemon, a pint of water, and a little 
cochineal; pass it through a sieve and 





Beat the fruit and su» — 











| 


BAR 


freeze it; take care that it is thick and 
smooth before you put in moulds. 

Bareeanry Jelly.—Pick a pint of bar- 
berries, and put them into a stew-pan 
with boiling water, cover it close and let 
it stand till nearly cold. Seton the fire 
some clarified sugar with a little water, 
(making a quart together;) when it be- 
gins to boil, skim it well, put in the bar- 
berries, let them boil an hour; squeeze 
the juice of three lemons through a 
sieve into a basin, to this, pass the liquor 
ies the barberries, and then the isin- 
glass. 

Bareerry Jelly.* — Take some very 
ripe burberries (what quantity you 
please) and before you seed them take 
two thirds of their weight in sugar. Boil 
your sugar au perlé, then put your bar- 
berries into it, and give the whole a few 
boilings, then pass it through a silk sieve 
into a pan, pressing the barberries with a 
spoon to extract as much juice as possi- 
ble from them; this done, put it again 
over the fire, and when you perceive it 
begins to form the scum, take it off and 
pour it into pots. 

Barzserry Marchpane.*—Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds 
and a half of sugar, and a pound of bar- 
berries ; pound the almonds to a paste, 
mix them with the sugar boiled to petzt 
dSoulé, and then add the juice of the bar- 
berries strained ; stir them together well, 
and place them on hot ashes, stirring 
them continually until the paste is form- 
ed; then putit on a table sprinkled with 
sugarand let it cool; spread it cut about 
the thickness of a crown piece, cut it 
into various forms, place them on sheets 
of paper, and bake them ina moderate 
oven and glaze them. You may use any 
other fruit you think proper. 

Barperry Marmalade.* Take three 
pounds of very ripe barberries, the same 
quantity of sugar, and a pound of water : 
put the water into a deep broad silver or 
eopper pan, and as you take the seeds out 
of the barberries, throw the latter into 
water, then give them a few boilings over 
the fire: after this put them into asieve, 
and bruise them to extract the pulp, 
which must again be put over the fire 
until the moisture has entirely evapo- 
rated. This done, if the pan.in which 
you put your barberries at first was of 
copper, pour the pulp which was extract- 
ed from the fruit into an earthen vessel 
to prevent the acid of the fruit when 
heated from acting on the copper; but 
if your vessel was of silver, you may 
safely put your pulp into it when heated, 
then pour upon thepulp the sugar, which 
must be previously clarified and boiled 
au cassé ; give the whole a few boilings, 


( 39 ) 





BAR 


stirring it well with a wooden spoon, 
then pour your marmalade into pots. 

Barserry Pastile.—Dissolve half an 
ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of water, 
Strain it in a cloth or bag, and put it into 
a mortar, with a spoonful of barberry 
marmaiade; mix it well, and add as 
much powder sugar as will make it intoa 
malleable paste; you may also put in a 
little cochineal dissolved ; form it into 
what shapes you please. 

Barserey Pickle.—Bruise and strain 
ripe barberries, and to a pint of juice put 
three pints of vinegar, a quarter of a 
pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of salt, and 


a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger, 


Boil all together, skim it clean, and pour 


it while boiling into jars in which have 
been put bunches of ripe barberries. 
When cold, add a little bruised cochineal. 
Tie them close. 


BaRBERRIES preserved in Bunches.*— 


Choose those barberries which have the 
largest seeds, which may be extracted 
carefully with the nib of a pen. 


q Weigh 
your fruit, and mix it with an equal 


weight of sugar boiled to petit bouwlé ; poil 
them together two or three times, and 
skim it. 
sel until the next day, when it may be 


Set it aside in an earthen ves-~- 


put in pots and covered. 

Barzerriges Stewed.*—Take large and 
ripe barberries of a fine red colour, and 
pick them. oil sugar to /a plume, and 
then throw in your barberries, and do 
them together seven or eight times. 
Skim, and put it in pots. 

Larperry Syrup.—Pick the barber- 
ries, boil and pulp them, then strain 
them, and clarify the juice ; then boil 
it up with as many pounds of fine sugar 
into a syrup, and if that does not make 
it thick enough, add more sugar. : 

Barperry /Vafers.—Press out the 
juice from as many barberries as you 
may require, and mix it with powder 
sugar, and the white of one egg, and stir 
it up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a 
fine paste. Lay a sheet of wafer paper 
on a baking plate, and spread your paste 
over it very thin with a knife; cut it into 
twelve pieces, and put them round a 
stick (the paste upwards) in a het stove 
to curl ; when half curled, take them off 
carefully, and set them up endways in a 
sieve ; let them stand for a whole day in 
a hot stove. 

Barperry /Vater.—-Put two large 
spoonfuls of barberry jam, the juice of 
two lemons and a gill of syrup in a basin, 
and dilute it with water; add a little 
cochinea], and if not rich enough, more 
syrup; strain it through a fine sieve. 

BARLEY Broth.—Chop a leg of beef 
in pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, 





BAR 


with a carrot and a crust of bread, till 
reduced to half; then strain it off and 
put it into the pot again with half a 
ound of barley, four or five heads of ce- 
ery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
an onion, a little chopped parsley, and a 
few marigolds. Let it boil an hour. Take 
an old cock or large fowl and put it into 
the pot, boil till the broth is quite good. 
Season with salt, take out the onion and 
herbs, and serve it. The fowl may be 
omitted. 

Barwey Cream.—Boil a small quantity 
of pearl bariey in milk and water, till 
tender, strain off the liquor, and put the 
barley intoa quart of cream, to boil a 
little. Then take the whites of five eggs 
and the yelk of one, beat them with one 
spoonful of flour, and two of orange-flower 
water. Vake the cream from the fire, 
mix the eggs in by degrees, and set it 
over the fire again to thicken. Sweeten 
it, and pour into cups or glasses for 
use. 

Bartey Grue/.—Take three ounces 
of pear! barley, of which make a quart of 
barley-water; if it be not white, shiit it 
once or twice; put in two ounces of cur- 
rants clean picked and washed, and when 
they are plumped, pour out the gruel 
and Jet it cool a litle ; then put in the 
yolks of three ezgs well beaten, half a 
pint of white wine, and of new thick 
cream half a pint, and lemon peel; then 
sweeten with fine sugar to your taste} 
stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick 
as cream. 

Baruey Posset. — Boil a pound of 
French barley in three quarts of milk; 
when boiled enough, put in three quarts 
of cream, some cianamon and mace, 
sweeten it with sugar ; let it stand unti! 
it is butjust warm, then putin a quart 
of whitt-wine, froth it up; to be eaten 
either with a spoon, or press out the 
liqnor to drink. 

Barty Pudding.*—Take a pound of 
pearl-barley well washed, three quarts 
of new milk, one quart of cream, and half 
a pound of double refined sugar, a grated 
nutmeg, and tome salt; mix them well 
together, then put them into a deep pan, 
and bake it ; then take it out of the oven, 
and put into it six eggs well beaten, six 
ounces of beef marrow, and a quarter of 
a pound of grated bread; mix all well 
together, then put it into another pan, 
bake it again, and it will be excellent. 

Baruey (French) Pudding.—Put toa 
quart of cream, six eggs well beaten, 
half the whites, sweeten to your palate, a 
little orange flower water, or rose water, 
anda pound of melied butter; then put 
in six fev dtals of French barley that has 
previously been boiled tender in milk, 


( 40 ) 


BAR’ 


butter a dish, and put it in. It will take 
as long baking as avenison pasty. 

Bariey (Pearl) Pudding.-— Get a 
pound of pearl barley, wash it clean, put 
to itthree quarts of new milk, and half 
a pound of double refined sugar, a nut- 
meg grated; then putit into a deep pan, 
and bake it. Take it out of the oven, 
beat up six eggs, mix all well together, 
buiter a dish, pour it in, bake it again an 
hour, and it will be excellent. 

Baruey Soup.—Wash your barley well 
in warm water, then boil itin good broth 
slowly, adding a little butter ; give it sub- 
stance with either cray-fish cullis ad la 
Reine, or any other, or without any, if 
you like it better plain. 

Barwiey Sugar.*—Clarify two pounds 
of sugar, and boil it to carame/ height, in 
a deep copper vessel with a lip}; pour it 
in straight lines avout an inch thick, ona 
marble slab previously rubbed with but- 
ter. Whilst hot, take each end of the 
strips of sugar and twist it; when cold 
cut itinto proper lengths and put them 
by in glasses. They must be kept in a 
cry place. . 

Baruey Sugar Drops.—Proceed as for | 
barleysegar. Have ready a large sheet 
of white paper, covered with a smooth 
laver of siited sugar. Pour out the boiled 
Sugar in drops the size ofashilling; when 
cold, fold them sepatately in paper, a few 
drops of the essence of ginger or lemon 
will improve the flavour. 

Baruey Syrup.—Make of a pound of 
barley three quarts of harley water; 
strain out the barley, and put to the wa- 
ter a handful of scabious, tormentil, hys- 
sop. agrimony, horehound, maiden hair, 
sanicle,betony, burage,bugloss, rosemary, 
marigolds, sage, viclets, and cowslips, of 
each a pint, when picked ; a pound of sun 
raisins stoned, halfa pound of figs cut, a 
quarter of a pound of dates stoned ; halfa 
pound of green liquorice, carraway, fenne} 
and aniseed, of each one ounce, harts- 
horn, ivy, elecampane roots, of each an 
ounce; the roots of fennel, asparagus, 
couchgrass, polipodium, and oak parsley, 
of each a handful: elean, bruise the 
seeds, slice the roots, and put all inte 
the barley water, cover close, and boil 
gently for twelve hours; then strain and 
press out the juice, and let it stand twen- 
ty-four hours; when clear, add to it rose- 
water and hyssop, half a pint of each, and 
a pint of clarified juice of coltsfect, a 
drachm of saffron, three pints of the best 
honey, and as many pounds of sugar as 
quarts of liquor, boll: this an hour and 
a half, keeping it clean scummed, then 
bottle it, cork it well, and put by for use. 

Baruey Water.—Put a qvarter of a 
pound of pearl-barley into two quarts of 


% 


* BEA ( 41 ) 


water, let it boil, skim it very clean, boil 
half away, and strain it off. Sweeten 
according to taste, and put in two glasses 
of white wine, or some lemon juice. 
Drink it warm. 

Banuey /Vine.—Boil half a pound of 
French barley in three waters, save about 
three pints of the last water, and mix it 
with a quart of white wine, halfa pint of 
borage water, as much clary water, a lit- 
tle red rose water, the juice of five or six 
lemons, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, the rind of a lemon. Strain and 
bottle it up. I } 

BASIL Vinegar or /Vine.—Filla wide 
mouthed bottie with fresh green leaves of 
Basil, and cover them with vinegar or 
wine, and let them steep for ten days}; if 
you wish a very strong essence, strain 
the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, 


BATH Buns.—Rub together, with the 
and, one pound of fine flour and halfa 


and let it steep fourteen days longer. 


i 


pound of butter; beat six eggs, and add 
them to the flour with a table spoonful of 
good. yeast. Mix them altogether with 
half atea cup fullofmilk ; set itin a warm 
place for an hour} mix in six ounces of 
sifted sugar, and a few carraway secds. 
Mould them into buns with a table spoon 
on a baking plate ; throw six or eight car- 
raway comfits on each, and bake them in 
a hot oven apout ten minutes. These 
quantities should make eighteen buns. 

BATTER for Fish, Meat, Fritters, 
§c.—Prepare it with fine flour, salt, a 
little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine and 
the whites of eggs beat up; when ofa pro- 
per thickness it will drop out of the spoon 
about the size of anutmeg atonce. Fry 
in oil or hog’s-lard. 

Barrer Pudding.—Take six spoonfuls 
of flour, put them in astewpan with about 
a teaspoonful of sait and nalf a nutmeg 
grated ; mix this up with about a pint 
and a half of new milk; beat up six eggs 
in a basin and stir them weil into the bat- 
ter; butter a basin or mould well, pour 
it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil 
it two hours and a half; serve with 


wine sance. This pudding may also be’ 


baked, for which three quarters of an 


bour are sufficient. Currants or stoned | 


raisins may be added. ; 
Barrer Pudding without Eggs.—Mix 
six spoonsful of flour with a small por- 
tion of a quart of milk ; and when smooth 
add the remainder of the milk, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonsful of 
grated ginger, and two of tincture of saf- 
fron; stir all together well, and boil it 
an hour. Fruit may. be added or not. 
BEANS 4 1’ Anglaise.* —Cut, wash, 
and boil the beans. and then throw them 
into a cullender. Puta piece of butter 


BEA 


into your table-dish, lay the beans on it, 
and garnish them with chopped parsley 
laid round like a cord ; heat the dish and 
serve. 

Beans Botled.—Boil them in water, 
with plenty of salt in it, till tender. 
Boil and chop parsley, put it into melted 
butter, and serve it as sauce. 

Another way.—Boil in salt and water 
with a bunch of savory; drain, and then 
put them into astewpan with five spoon- 
fuls of sauce tournée reduced, the yolks 
of three eggs and a little salt, add a piece 
of fresh butter, and stir it constantly till 
of a proper thickness. 

Bean Bread.—Is made in the same 
way as almond bread; leave out the musk 
or ambergris, if you please. 

Bean Cakes.—Take an equal quantity 
of fine sugar and blanched almonds cut in 
slips lengthways; slice some preserved 
orange, lemon, and citron peel; beat the 
white of an egy to a froth with a litthe 
orange flower water; put as much of it 
into the sugar as wili just wet it; and 
with the point of a knife, build up your 
almonds, piling it round as high as you 
can upon a wafer; put some ambergris 
also to your sugar, and bake them. 

Beans @ la Créme.—Are done in the 
same way as ala Macedoine, omitting the 
artichokes and wine; but) when stewed, 
thicken with cream and yolks of eggs. 

Beans @ la Macédoine.—Shred some 
parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and 
Savory, and put them into a stewpan 
with a bit of butter rolled in flour; 
moisten with stock and white wine; let 
it boil over a slow fire: then put in three 
artichoke bottoms, previously blanched 
in boiling water,and cutin small squares, 
with a quartern of young garden beans, 
the skins off, and parboiled; stew them, 
season with salt and pepper, take out the 
herbs, and serve the beans with the 
sauce thick. 

Beans with Parsnips.—Take two large 
parsnips, scrape them clean, and boil 


them in water. When tender take them - 


up, Scrape all the soft into a sauce-pan, 
add to them four spoonsful of cream, a 
piece of butter the size of an hen’s egg, 
chop them in a sauce-pan well; and 
when they are quite thick, heap them up 
in the middie of the dish, and a ragout 
of beans ail round, 
Beans @ la Poulette.*—Put them into 
a stewpan with some butter, parsley, 
green onions and a little savory ; shake 
them over the fire, add a little flour, a 
lump of sugar and a little stock. When 
done put in the yolks of three eggs, beat 
up with a little milk. 
Beans (Purée of white).—Chop some 
onions, and fry ae lightly in a little 
E 








itil ae ee 6 





- ay 


BEA | ( 42 ) 


butter and flour, and moisten with a 
spoonful or two of broth. Let the 
onions be thoroughly done; boil the 
beans in this for half an hour, season 
them well without any pepper, and strain 
them through a tammy. Reduce the 
purée over a brisk fire, take off the white 
scum, and before you serve refine it with 
a bit of fresh butter and two spoonfuls 
of thick cream: garnish with fried crusts 
of bread. This may be made brown by 
frying the onions a deep colour, and 
moistening them with espagnole or veal 
gravy. 

Bean Tansey.—Yake two quarts of 
beans, blanch and beat them very fine 
in a mortar; season with pepper, salt 
and mace; then put in the yolks of six 
eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a pint of cream, half a piot of sack, and 
sweeten according to your taste. Soak 
four Naples biscuits in half a pint of 
milk, mix them with the other ingre- 
dients, half a pint of the juice of spinach, 
with two or three sprigs of tansey beat 
with it. Butter a pan, and bake it, then 
turn it en a dish, and stick it al] over 
with candied citron and orange peel cut 
smal!, Garnish with Seville orange. 

Bean Tarts.~Make a puff pasie, and 
put into your patty-pans; then boil 
green beans, blanch them, and put into 
the paste a layer of beans, and a layer of 
various sweetmeats, but no quinces, 
strewing a little loaf sugar between each 
layer; put in some juice of Jemon, also 
some marrow seasoned with salt, cloves, 
mace, nuimeg, candied lemon or orange- 
peel; cover the patties, make a small 
hole at top, and put in alittle lemon- 
juice; then bake them, and when taken 
out of the oven, put in some white Mie 
thickened with the yolk of an egg, an 
a bit of butter. To be eaten hot. 

Beans (French) en Allumette.*—Wash, 
pick, and blanch your beans; throw them 
intocold water; cutoff the ends, and finish 
boiling them witha little brandy; drain, 
then dip in batter, and fry them of a 
light colour; whilst hot sprinkle sugar 
over and glaze them. 

Beans (French) in Black Butter.*— 
When the beans are scalded, drainthem 
well; season them with salt and pepper, 
and having placed them in your dish, 
pour some black butter (see Brack 
Butter) over them, and serve. 

Another way.*—Having well-drained 
the beans, colour some butter in a stew- 
pan, and then toss up your beans in it, 
over a large fire; season, and then 
pie them in a dish for table; adda 
ittle vinegar. 

Beans (French) & la Bretonne.*— 
Cutan onion or two into dice, and put 


BEA 


them in a saucepan with some butter, 


over a stove; when they begin to brown 
add some espagnole, or a pinch of flour + 

as soon as the onions and flour are suf- 
ficiently brown, moisien them with a_ 


ladleful of good gravy, season with salt 
and whole pepper; reduce this sauce, 


and having boiled the beans put them 


into it, and simmer all together. 
_ Beans (french) en Butsson.*—Choose 
your beans as near of a size as you can }. 
split, wash, and boil them as usual; 
when done, put them into cold water, 
and as soon as your beans are cold, 
drain them ina cullender, then dry them 
in anapkin; toss them up with seme 
oil, vinegar, salt, mz¢gnonette, shred 
paisley aod shallot. Dress the beans in 
a crouscade, in the same way as Aspara- 
gus en Croustade. 
Beans (french) to keep.* — Gather 


them as for daily use, and string them; | 


put chem into betiles, iflarge, cut them $ 
shake the botiles that the beans may 
fall close, and proceed as with Windsor 
beans. Waite Beuns ave done in the 
same way, but they must not be gather- 
ed until the shell has turned yellowish 3 
these must be two hours in the ain- 


marie. One hour is enough for the 


green. 

Beans (French) to keep.—Gather 
them ona dry day, and lay themin the 
sun. Keep them ina dry place in papers 3 
before you use them, put them in warm 
water. ' 

Beans (ifrench) Liés.*—Scald your 
beans, drain and cool them; put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter and some 
sweet herbs chopped fine. When the 
butter is hot, add two spoonstul of flour, 
a glass of stock, a little salt and pepper ; 
as soon as the sauce boils, put in the 
beans, and toss them up; just before you 
serve them thicken it with the yolks of 
two eggs. You may add lemon-juice if 
you think proper. 

Beans (French) @ la Lionaise.*—Cut 
some-onions in slices, and fry them of 
a good colour in oil; add to them some 
French beans previously boiled in salt 
water with shred parsley, salt, and pep- 
per; toss them up with the onions. 
Place them in your dish; heat some 
vince in the frying-pan, and pour itover 
them, 

Beans (French) @ la Maitre d’ Hétel.* 
—Prepare your beans as for boiling ; put 
into a stewpan a piece of butter, shred 
parsley, and green onions; when the 
butter is melted, add the French beans, 
turn them a few times over the fire, 
shake in some flour, and moisten with a 
little good stock, well seasoned; boil till 
the sauce is consumed; then put in the 


ee ee ee ae ee 


5 





ee ee ee, eee ee 


BEA 


yolks of three eggs, beat up with some 
milk; and, lastly, add a little vinegar or 
verjuice. Cullis or veal gravy may be 
used instead of the eggs. 

Beans (French) pickled.—Lay them in 
salt and water for nine days, then adda 
little vinegar, and boil them in the li- 
quor; when they become green, drain, 
wipe them dry, and put the beans into a 
jar. Boil some vinegar, ginger, mace, 
pepper cloves, and mustard-seed, all 

ruised, and, while hot, pour it on the 
beans. Cover them close when cold. 

Beans (french) & la Provengale.—Boil 
your beans insalt and water, drain and 
lay them on the fire in astewpan until 
perfectly dryand hot. Squeeze two #mall 
pieces of garlick on the dresser with a 
wooden spoon, mixed with a little fresh 
butter ; put this and a quarter of a pound 
of butter to the beans, and stir it well till 
properly combined. Mix some parsley, 
shalots, and green onions, chopped fine, 
and a little olive oil. Keep stirring, sea- 
son it well, and add the juice of a lemon. 
Serve it very hot. 

Beans (French) Ragott of.—Do not 
split, but cut your beans in two, fry and 
drain them: shake over a little flour. 
Put to them some good gravy, an onion, 
a little pounded cloves, cayenne, and 
salt; some ketchup; boil them together, 
shaking it. Take out the enion, and 
serve hot. 

Beans (French) Ragott of, a  An- 
glaise.—Take a quarter of a peck of 
beans, string and cyt them across, but 
do not split them, lay them in salt and 
water a short time, and then dry them 
thoroughly in a coarse cloth. Fry them 
of a nice brown, and having poured off 
all the fat, put in a quarter of a pint of 
hot water, stir it and let it boil; then 
add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter 
rolledin flour, two spoonsful of catsup, 
one of mushroom pickle, four of white. 
an onion stuck with six cloves, pounded 
mace, halfa nutmeg grated, pepper and 
salt; stir all together weil, throw in the 
beans, shake them about a minute or 
two, take out the onion, and dish the 
beans with the sauce. Garnish as you 
please. 

Beans (French) Ragott, with Cadb- 
bage.—Choose a nice close cabbage, and 
having cleaned and trimmed it, parboil, 
and take out great part of the middle, 
which must be chopped very small with 
a few boiled French pean, a carrot, and 
a turnip, also boiled; mash altogether, 
season them w'th pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg, and stew them a few minutes with 
some butter, stirring all the time. In 
the mean while tie up the cabbage that 
it may not fall to pieces, and put it into 


( 43 ) 


BEA 


a saucepan with four spoonsful of water, 
two of wine, one of catsup, the samé 
of mushroom pickle, a bit of butter 
rolled in flour, and a’ little pepper : 
cover it close, and stew it gently; when 
tender, place it in the table-dish, fill it 
with the mashed roots, and put round 
it the ragout of beans as above, and 
serve it hot. The liquor the cabbage 
was boiled in may be added. 

Beans (french) Ragettt, with Forees 
meat.—Make a ragofit of French beans, 
as direcied, @ I’ Anglaise; mash two 
large well-boiled carrots, season them 
with pepper and salt; mix with thema 
piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs 5 
put this into a dish, form it according to 
your fancy, bake it for a quarter of an 
hour in a quick oven; when done, clean 
your dish, pour the ragout round, and 
serve. 

Beans (French) Ragottt, with Par- 
snips.—Boil two large parsnips till quite 
tender, then scrape them into a sauce- 
pan, adding fouc spoonstul of cream, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg; mash 
all together well, and when quite thick, 
put it into a dish with the ragout of 
French beans round. 

Beans (French) Ragott, with Pota- 
toes.—Boil two pounds of potatoes tho- 
roughly, peel, and put them into a 
saucepan with halfa pintof milk, a little 
salt, and a quarter of a pound of butter; 
stir it constantly; when it becomes so 
thick that the spoon will hardly move, 
buttec an earthen dish, and put in the 
potaioes; flour and pour melted butter 
and bread-crumbs over; set it in a 
Dutch-oven, and when brown, place it 
in a dish very carefully, and serve with 
the ragout of beans round it. 

Beans (French) Salad.* —Boil them 
simply, drain, and let them cool; put 
them in a dish, and garnish with par- 
sley, pimpernel, and tarragon. Dress 
like other salads. 

Beans (French) with Wine.*—Brown 
some sliced onions in butter, and mix 
with them some French beans, boiled 
and drained as usual, add wine, and sea- 
son them with pepper and salt. 

Beans ( Garden) preserved.*—Shel] the 
beans when they are about half aa inch 
long, and blanch them, put them into 
bottles with a bunch of savory in each, 
close the bottles hermetically, and pro- 
ceed according to the directions for pre- 
serving asparagus. Leave them in the 
bain marie one hour and a half. If you 
wish to preserve them in their coats, 
take care to put them into bottles the 
moment they are shelled, as they change 
colour so quickly. An hour in the dan 
marie is sufficient for these. 








<a ERE 


BEE (44) 


Bean (green) Pudding. — Boil and 


blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, | 


with very little pepper and salt, some 
cream, aud the yolk of an egg. A little 


spinach juice to colourit. Boilia a basin | 


that will just hold it an hour; pour par- 
sley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat 
with it. 

Beans (Witte Kidney) with Gravy.*— 


Boil and drain your beans; make a light | 


roug, and mix it with some gravy, Sait, 
pepper, and a little vinegar; throw the 
beans into the sauce, and serve hot. 

BECCAFICOS.* — These birds are 
roasted, covered with bacon, and toast 

ut under. Baste, while roasting, with 
ard, and serve witha sprinkling of lemon 
or verjuice. 

BECHAMELLE.* — Reduce some 
sauce fowrnée over a good fire, moisten 
with chicken broth or consommé, con- 
stantly stirring to prevent its catching ; 
when of the proper consistence, add two 
glasses of boiling cream, continue stir- 
ring; pass it through a hair sieve, and 
serve. , ; 

BrecHamette Cake, — Boil a pint of 
eream with a few pounded sweet al- 
monds and a little coriander seed, then 
strain it; use to it about a pound of fiour, 
three eggs, and about as much butter as 
will make it intoa paste, finish like all 
other paste, and make into cakes, what 
shape or size you please. 

BecuaMe.te, Petits Pdtés of.*—Roll 
out some pufi-paste, and line with it 
some small custard moulds, fill them 
np with paste, and bake in a hot oven; 
then roll out some more paste for the 
lids, and with a paste-cutter, rather 
larger than your moulds, cut out an 
equal number of pieces, derez them, put 
a little lozenge on the top of each, and 
bake them. When these are done, take 
the eroustades, trim and dorez them 
lightly, and having dried them in the 
oven, fill them with Jechamelle. 

BecHAMELLE Sauce.*—Put into a stew- 
pan some veal and ham cut into dice. 
carrots, cloves, onions, laurel leaves, 
shallots, parsley, and scallions, all chop- 
ped small; pepper, grated nutmeg, a 
little salt and batter, a little veloulé and 
econsonmé. Reduce it to half, and then 
put in some cream : mix it well with your 
sauce. Boil all together over a quick 
fire, shaking it constantly, for an hour; 
uf thick enough, strain it through a sieve, 

BEEF.*—To secure prime beef or any 
other butchers’ meat of superior quality, 
for the larder, it is indispensable to deal 
with a reputable butcher, as he will 
neither purchase nor kill inferior stock. 
Certain economical caterers, however, 
will not confine themselves to any parti- 





-BEE 


cular tradesman. To such it is recom . 
mended to bear their wits about them to 
the shambles, for that shopkeeper that 
cannot secure a constant customer, ac- 
cording to the moral usages of a market — 
is less regardful of his reputation, and 
there is a general feeling of exultation 
amongst the shopkeepers in a market- 
place, when one of these shamble-hunt- 
ing providers gets himself ovtwitted. 
He must be cunning indeed who is a 
match for the market-folks, — 

The vigilance of three senses is ne- 
cessary to these perambulating pur- 
veyors, the sight, the touch, and the 
smell; although the skilful provider will 
depend alone upon the eye, as prime 
meat bears its sterling character on the 
surface. 3 ; 

‘True well-fed beef may be known at 
once to the skilful eye, by the texture | 
and colour: the lean will exhibit an open 
grain of a deep coral red, and the fat will 
appear of an healthy, oily smoothness, 
inclining to white rather than yellow. 
The suet firm and white. Yellow fat is 
generally a sufficient test of inferior beef, _ 
though itis acommon error to suppose | 
the yellow tinge is a certain sign of the 
beast having been fed on oil-cake. Oxen_ 
fatted for slaughter on corn and turnips, | 
will when killed frequently exhibit yel- 
lew fat. ; 

Heiler-beef of prime quality is scarcely 
inferior to ox-beef: the texture of the 
lean, however, is of a closer grain,.of a 
paler coral red, and the fat whiter than 
that of ox beef, ; 

Cow-beef is also distinguished from 
that of the ox, by the same characteris- 
tics, only that in proportion to its greater 
age, its texture will be still closer, the 
flesh more coarse to the sight, and harder 
to the touch. . 

‘It has been a practice amongst a many 
farmers to feed oxen and calves on oil 
cake, though by no means so prevalent 
now as at that period when, a few years 
ago, experimental agriculturists sought 
to improve bDature, by crossing her in all 
her operations, until he that had bred 
the most perfect monster obtained the - 
greatest prize. That much new and use- 
ful light has been thrown upon the sub- 
ject of breeding and feeding, is generally 
acknowledged, to the credit of many 
scientific gentlemen, who have devoted 
their time and fortune to these pursuits; 
but the artificial means resorted to, to 
effect these ends, if pushed a little fur- 
ther, would have excluded wholesome 
beef and muttor from the larder. 

The best beef,and that which is sought 
by the most reputable butchers, is thet 
ol the Scotch cattle, which, arriving from 





BEE 


the north, is fed in English pastures. 
Many counties feed this stock, but Nor- 
folk has the preference, where the far 
greater number are fed. 

Heifers are usually fit for the slaughter 
from two to three years old. 

The ox is slaughtered from three to 
five years old. 

The Devon and Hereford breed, afford 
Hoh beef, to which the Lincoinshire 
breed is generally not to be compared. 
The Sussex ox is not uncommonly 
Slaughbiered at seven years, being pre- 
viously worked at the plough. 

With regard to artificial feeding, 
whether on oil-cake or other nutriment, 
to increase the flesh of animals for tie 
slaughter, the result is held to be, ** that 

’ though generally the lean of fat anima!s 
is the most tender and palatable, yet 
that this is not so much the case when 
the fat is rapidly produced by artificial 
management in the feeding, (See the 
articles Murron, Pork, &c.) 

Beer @ Anglaise. —Vake a rump of 
beef, or any piece you like better of the 
same size; tie it up neatly with pack- 

_ thread, and put it into a stewpan with 

two or three carrots, a parsnip, three or 
four onions, a bunch of parsley and green 
onions, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, 
and basil ; moisten with some stock or 
water, season, and let the beef stew gently 
till half done, then put in a few small 
cabbages, prepared in the following man- 
ner; boil a large cabbage, and having 
squeezed it perfectly dry, take off the 
leaves one by one, and put within each 
leaf a jitle veal or other forcemeat, 
surrounding it with three or four more of 
the leaves, in such a manner as to form 
little caboages, something larger than an 
egg; tie these with packthread, and let 
them,be stewed with the beef. When 
the whole is done, clean away the outside 
loose fat, and put your beef in a dish, cut 
the little cabbages in half,and place them 
round the dish, with the cut side outward. 

Takea little of the stew, strain it through 

a sieve, and having skimmed off the fat, 

add a little cullis to thicken it. Reduce 

this over the fire to the consistence of a 

sauce, serving it over the meat and cab- 
bages. 

Beer Amouretics in Marinade.—Beet 
amoureties are prepared and dressed 
exactly the same as beef brains; when 
they are done, let them drain, then cut 
them inio equal lengths, and fry them in 
batter. 

Breer Buked.—Let a buttock of beef 
which has been in salt about a week, be 
welj washed and put into an earthen pan, 
with a pint of water; cover the pan tight 


( 45 ) 


BEE 


with twoor three sheets of fuolscap paper 
—let it bake four or five hours in a mode- 
rately heated oven. 

Beer Baked like Red Deer to be eaten 
cold.—Cut buttock of beef long ways with 
the grain, beat it well with a rolling pin, 
and broil it; when it is cold, lard it, and 
marinate it in wine vinegar, salt, pepper, 
cloves, mace, and two or three bay 
leaves, for two or three days; then bake 
itin rye paste; letit stand till itis cold 3 
then fill it up with butter ; let it stand for 
a fortnight before it is eaten. 

Beer Boutlli.*—Take a rump of beef, 
or pa:t oi one; bone and tie it together 
In a neat form, and putit into a pot, with 
any odd bits of butchei’s meat you may 
happen to have in the house, either beef, 
veal, or mutton; you may add, also, the 
bones, feet, and necks of poultry or game, 
the meat of which has been taken for 
other dishes ; place your pot on a mode- 
rate fire, not quite full of water, and 
skim gently. When it has boiled a short 
time, putin some salt, turnips, six car- 
rots, and six onions, into one of which 
you should stick three cloves; add a 
bunch of teeks. Let the whole boil 
gently, till the beef is perfectly done}; 
then take it out, and serve it up either 
With fresh parsley, with a sauce, or with 
onions or ciher vegetables. 

Beer (Boiled) to eat cold.—Slice your 
beef as thin as possible, and also an 
Onion or sbalot ; then squeeze on it the 
juice of a Jemon or two, aad beat all to- 
gether beiween two plates; when it is 
well beaten, and tastes sharp of the 
lemon, put it inio a deep dish, pick out 
the onion, and pour oi! on it, sheed some 
parsley and stiew over it, and garnish it 
with lemon, and serve. 

Beer Boiled with sweet Hcrés.*—Line 
the bottom of a dish with butter, sweet. 
he:bs chopped, and bread grated fine, 
put uvon this your beef, cut as small as 
possible, cover it with sweet herbs, pieces 
of butter, and bread grated fine, let it cook 
over a gentle fire, put fire also on the lid » 
of your saucepan, when the beef is com- 
pletely browned, serveit. You may add 
pickled gherkins or capers. 

Berr Brains.*—Put the brains into 
tepid water to cleanse them from the 
blood, and to take off tie thin skin which 
covers them; take them out and put 
them into more tepid water; afterwards 
put them into boiling water to blanch 
them ; when they have been a few minutes 
in the boiling water take them out, and 
put them into fresh water; cock them 
in a proper quantity of water, with the 
juice of a lemon, an onion cut in slices, 
some parsley, and some bay leaves. 





BEE ( 46 ) BEE 


» Beer Brains en Sauce Aurora.*—Well 
wash four beef brains, blanch them, and 
cook thein in a marinade of white wine 3 
when they are done, divide them into 
sixteen pieces, splitting each half brain 
through the middle; dress them on a 
dish in the form of a crown, and serve 
with Aurora sauce. 

Berr Brains au Beurre Noir.*—Well 
wash your brains to cleanse them from 
the blood, the skin, and fibres, that are 
about the brains; then put them into 
lukewarm water to soak for two hours; 
after wnich put them into a stewpan be- 
tween slices of bacon, with bay leaves, 
sliced onions, carrots, parsley, scallion, a 
glass of white wine, and some stock; let 
the whele simmer forhalf an hour; drain 
them, and serve with black butter, poured 
all over, and fried parsley in the middle. 

Beer Brains au Beurre Noir.*—Cook 
some brains in a marinade, then leave 
them to drain; serve them on a dish 
with a sauce au beurre noir, and garnish 
with fried parsley, 

Brains may be served with any sauce 
you please. : 

Beer Brains Fried.*—Let your brains 
be properly marinated, then leave them 
to drain, make a preparation with warm 
water, a little butter and salt, some flour, 


a spoonful of oil, and the whites of eggs 


whipped to snow, mix al! together to the 
consistence of batter, dip your brains 
into this batter, and then fry them anice 
brown colour, when fried Jet them 
drain on a dry cloth; garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Beer Brains en Marinade.*—Well wash 
your brains, scald them, and put them 
into a marinade; then make some batter, 
dip your brains into it, and then fry 
them, taking care that the batter is not 
too hot. If it so happens that you wish 
to fry brains which have been previously 
dressed, you must cut them in pieces, 
season them with salt and pepper, then 
put them into just sufficient vinegar to 
cover them; afterwards drain them, put 
them into batter and fry them. 

Beer Brains en Matelotte.*-~Have 
ready a little Spanish sauce, add to it a 
glass of red or white wine, some small 
onions browned in butter, and some 
mushrooms, then cut your brains into 
pieces, and put them into this prepara- 
tien, give ita single boil, and then serve. 
Garnish with artichoke bottoms, cray- 
fish, crusts of bread, and sweetbreads. 

Beer Brains a@ la sauce piqguante.*— 
Prepare and dress your brains the same 
as for Brains du teurre noir. Drain 
them, put them on a dish, and pour a 
sauce peguante all over them, 


Beer Brains @ la Poulette.*—Well 
wash some brains, blanch them, and cook 
them in a marinade of white wine, then 
make boiling hot a reduced German 
sauce, adding some mushrooms, some 
parsley, and a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, the juice of a lemon, some whole 
pepper, stirring it well to keep it from 
oiling, sauce the brains with this prepar- 
ation, and serve very hot. 4 

Beer Brains @ la Poulette.*—Put 
some brains into a stew-pan, with a suf- 
ficient quantity of butter; sprinkle in a 
lite flour, moisten with a little water, 
add some small onions, champignons, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs; season according 
to taste, and let it cook over a gentle fire 5. 
when ready to serve, thicken with the 
yolks of eggs beat up with the juice of a 
lemon. 

Beer Brains au Solei?.*—Well wash 
your brains, blanch them and cook them 
in a marinade of white wine. Then cut 
them in halves, put them in a dish, sauce 
and mash them with a good German 
sauce, well reduced, and add a little of 
the marinade, and a few sweet herbs, a. 
papillates.. When the brains are cold, 
egez and bread them; then fry them ; 
when fried, arrange them on a dish in 
form of a crown, and serve with clear 
aspic sauce, i 

Beer @ la Braise.—Take two or three 
ribs of beef, cut away only the fleshy 
part that is next the chine, and take 
away all the fat, lard it with pretty large 
lardons of bacon, seasoned with spices, 
sweet herbs, parsley, young onions, a 
small quantity of mushrooms, and truf- 
fles, shred very small. Having larded 
the beef, tie it into a neat form with 
packthread, and put it into a stew-pan, 
having previously lined the bottom of 
the stew-pan with thin slices of fat ba- 
con, and over them lay slices of lean 
beef about an inch thick, beaten well 
and seasoned with spice, sweet herbs, 
onions, lemon peel, bay leaves, salt and 
pepper 3 then put in your beef, laying 
the fleshy side downwards that it may 
take the better relish of the seasoning 3 
then season the upper part as you did 
the lower, and lay over it slices of beef, 
and over them slices of bacon, as you 
did at the bottom; then cover the stew- 
pan and close it well all round the edge 
of the cover with paste; then put fire on 
the cover of your stew-pan as well as 
under. When the beef is sufficiently 
stewed take it up, and let it drain a little, 
then lay it in a dish, and pour the fol- 
lowing ragout upon it. ; 

While your beef is stewing make a 
ragout as follows. Take veal sweet- 


BEE 


breads, livers of capons, mushrooms, 
trufiles, tops of asparagus, and bottums 
of artichoke, toss these up with some 
melted bacon, moisten them with good 
gravy, and thicken it with a cullis made 
of veal and gammon of bacon. 

Beer Broth.—Take a leg of beef, crack 
the bone in two or three parts, wash it 
clean, put it into a pot with a gallon of 
water, skim it well, then put in two or 
three blades of mace, a little bundle of 
parsley, and a crust of bread ; let it boil 
till the beef is quite tender, toast some 
bread, cut it into dice, put them in a 
_tureen; lay in the meat, and pour the 
soup over it. 

Beer Cakes (for a side-dish of dressed 
Meat.)—Pound some beef that is under 
done with a little fat bacon or ham; sea- 
son with pepper, salt, and a little shallot 
or garlick ; mix them well; and make it 
intu small cakes three inches long, and 
half as wide and thick; fry them ina 
light brown, and serve them in a guod 
thick gravy. _ 

Beer (cold) Broiled in Paper.—Soak 
some slices of cold beef in a marinade 
made of oil or butter, parsley, shallots, 
mushrooms, pepper and salt; roll the 
pieces in paper with this sauce, rub the 
paper with butter, broil on a slow fire, 
and serve in the paper. % 

Beer Collared.—Choose the thin end of 
the flank oi fine mellow beef, but not too fat; 
lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, 
turn and rub itevery dayfor a week, and 
keep it cool. Then take out every bore 
and gristle, remove the skin of the inside 


part, and cover it thick with the following 


seasoning cut small: a large handful of 
parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, 
marjoram, and penny-royal, pepper, salt, 
and allspice. Koll the meat up as tight 
as possible, and bind it, then boil it 
gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth 
must be put round before the tape. Put 
the beef under a good weight while hot, 
without undoing it; the shape will then 
be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled 
in ig the beef, looks and eats very 
well. 

Beer Collared.—Lay a flank of beef in 
hain brine a iortnight, dry it in a cloth; 
take out the leather and skin, cut it 
across and across} season it with spice, 
two anchovies, a handful of thyme, 
parsley, sweet marjoram, winter sa- 
very, onions, and fennel; strew it on 
the meat, roll it in a hard collar in a 
cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put 
it in a collar pot, with a pint of red wine, 
eochineal, and two quarts of pump 
water. When cold, take it out of the 
eloth. 

Beer Collops.—Take the fillet from 


( 47 ) 


BEE 


the under part of arump of beef, cut it 
into small thin slices, and fry them till 
three parts done; then add to them slices 
of pickled cucumbers, smal] mushrooms 
stewed, blanched oysters, some good 
seasoned cullis, andstew them till tender. 

Beer Chitterlings.—Take the entrails 
of beef, carefully clean them, cut them, 
and marinate them five or six hours ina 
glass of Madeira, or other white wine, 
two cloves cf garlick, thyme, bay and 
basil; cut into fillets some ox palates, 
or ox tongue and tripe, each first three 
parts boiled; also cut into small pieces, 
cow’s udder and pickled pork; mix the 
whole of these together, and add sliced 
onions, fried in butter or lard, four yolks 
of eggs raw, salt, and the best spices; 
with these, fill the entrails, and boil 
them half an hour in fat broth, with half 
a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, three spices of cloves, sliced car- 
rots and parsnips, and let them cool in 
their liquor. Wipe them well before 
you broil them. 

Beer Cullis.—Roast a piece of buttock 
of beef very brown; then cut off all the 
brown part, and whilst hot beat itina 
mortar, with some partridge (or fowl), 
and crusts of bread, then put it intoa 
stewpan with some strong gravy and 
good broth; season with salt, pepper, 
cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece 
of green lemon. Give the whole four or 
five bcilings, then strain it for use. 

Breer @ la Daube.—Take aronnd, a 
rump, ora veiny piece of beef, lard it with 
bacon, halfroast it, or fry it brown; put 
it into a stewpan or a pot that will just 
hold it; add some gravy, an onion stuck 
with cloves, half a pint of white wine, a 
gill of vinegar, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
pepper, cloves, mace, and salt 5 cover it 
down very close, tet it but just simmer till 
it is tender; take two ox palates, two 
sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke 
bottoms, stew them all together in some 
gravy, and pour over the beef; have 
ready some forced meat balls fried, make 
some long, others round, dip some sippets 
into batter, fry and cut them three corner 
ways, and stick them into the meat; lay 
the balls round the dish. 

Beer Dolpeties & U Italienne.*—Take 
some cold roast fillet of beef, cut out all 
the fat and suet, then chop up your meat 
as small as possivle, and put into a re- 
duced boiling Spanish sauce, adding a 
littie crumb of bread, a little grated par- 
mesan cheese, some whole pepper, and 
two eggs; then leave it to cool. When 
cold, mould them into large balls; rub 
them over with egg, and then strew 
them over with grated parmesan cheese 
and bread crumbs, fry them in clarified 





BEE 


butter or batter; Jet them drain, and 
then simmer them in love-apple sauce ; 
serve them on a dish, with love-apple 
sauce over them. 

Breer Ears.—Beef ears, well scalded 
like calves, may be made tender in a 
strong braze, full of strong herbs and 
spices; they should be afterwards broiled, 
and served with a cullis or relishing 
sauce. 

Beer 4 l’écarlate,*—Take a rump of 
beef, bone it, lard it, season it with salt 
and spices, rub it well with saltpetre. 
Putitinto a pan with juniper berries, 
thyme, basil, garlick. laurel leaves, cloves, 
and onions cut in slices; cover the pan 

_close, so as to exclude all air. At the 
end of five or six days, turn your beef, co- 
ver the pan again, and Jet it remain for 
five or six days longer; then take it out 
of the pan, putitin aclean cloth and tie it 
with packthread, then put it intoa stew- 
pan with some water, carrots, onions, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs, let it stew for se- 
veral hours, according to the size of your 
meat. When it is done, serve it In atu- 
reen, and pour over it the liquor in which 
ithasstewed. You may serve it the next 
day asa cold dish. 

Bzer (Entre-cate of ) Brotled.*—Take 
the slice of beef which is obtained between 
any two of the ribs, and take out the si- 
newy parts, then cutit to about the thick- 
ness of two fingers, beat it flat, and sprio- 
kle it over with saltand pepper. Put it 
on the gridiron over a clear fire. When 
it is done, serveit witha sauce @ la maitre 
a’hétel or a sauce piquante. 

Beer (Fillet of )a U Amiral.—Slice five 
orsix onions, and fry them in butter ; then 
take two anchovies, split them into seve- 
ral pieces, alittle grated bacon, two yolks 
of eggs, a litule salt, and powder of basil ; 
scald the fitlet of beef in boiling water, 
cut in different siices without separating, 
and between them put some of the stuf- 
fing, tie it up in veal caul and roast it; 
serve with cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. 

Beer (Fillet of ) and Anchovies.—Soak 
five or six anchovies in water about two 
hours, split them, and lay the fillet with 
them intermixed with bacon; boil it ona 


slow fire, with a little broth and a glass- 


of white wine, one clove of garlick, two 
cloves, and a fagzot; when done, sift 
the sauce, add a bit of butter rolled in 
flour, two spoonfuls of cream, and a few 
‘small capers whole ; make a liaison, and 
serve it upon the fillet. 

Beer (Fil'et of) en Chevreutl.*—Take 
a piece of the fillet (about a pound), and 
cut it into four or five parts; after hav- 
ing cut off the fat and taken out the 
sinewy parts, beat and lard your fillets, 
then put them in a marinade made with 


( 48 ) 


BEE 


vinegar and a little water, sliced onions) 


salt, parsley, laurel, and a clove of gar- 
lic. When they have marinated for four- 
and-twenty hours, take them out and 
squeeze them in a cloth, then put a 
piece of butter into a tossing pan, and 
when itis melted, fry your fillets in it3 
when they are sufficiently done and wel 

browned, put them on a cloth to drain 3 
serve them on a dish over pieces of fried 


bread, and pour over the whole a sauce 


potvrade, \ove-apple sauce, or sauce 
Moraes The sauce must be boiling 
10t. 

Beer (Fillet of), with Endive.—Pre- 
pare the fillet the same as for roasting 
and larding (receipt the second), and 
dish it with a rago(it of endive under it, . 

Beer (Fillet of) & UIntendante.— 
Make force-meat with fowls’ livers, grat- 
ed bacon, alittle butter, parsley, shallots, 
mushrooms, three yolks of eggs, and fine 
apices; cut a fillet of beef into two, and 
flatter it with the cleaver, lard it through 
with middling lJardons, then Jay the 
forced meat upon it, and tie it in a cloth ; 
boil it in broth, a glass of white wine, 
and a faggot of sweet herbs; when done, 
serve with it a ragout of sweetbreads, or 
truffles, &c. 

Beer (Fillet of), with Love Apple 
Sauce.—Prepare your fillet the same as 
for roasting and larding (receipt the se- 
cond), and dish it over love apple 
sauce. 

Beer (Fillet of), in Madeira.*—Lard a 
good fillet of beef, the same as for roast- 
ing, join the ends together, and place it 
in this manner in a stew-pan, with some 
onions, carrots, and a douguet garni, 
some consommé and Madeira, cover it 
wih a buttered paper; let it boil fora 
moment, and afterwards let it boil! slowly. 
Put fire upon the top of your stew-pan. 
When it is done strain the broth through 
asilk sieve, reduce it, and serve itasa 
sauce to your meat. 

Beer (Fillet of), a@ la Polonaice.*#— 
Take out the nerves and skin from a 
fillet of beef, and mince the fillet as 
small as possible, mince some onious 
equally small, (mince a sufficient num- 
ber to have exactly the same quantity 
of minced onions as minced beef), then 
mince some Jemon peel, (she same as‘for 


sauce bigarude); the whole thus pre- — 


pared, melt some butter in a stewpan 3 
when melted, put into it first a layer of 
onions, then a layer of beef, and so on 
till your beef is used. 
Jayer put butter, salt, 
cinnamon, Jemon, and grated bread. 
Then put your stewpan into an oven, 


and Jet your preparation bake for three — 


hours. After this, work the whole well 





Between each © 
epper, nutmeg, — 





ee nL ee 


BEE 


together whilst in the stewpan; then 
, Serve it ona dish in form of a rock, and 
_ Mash the whole with a reduced Spanish 
sauce, 
__ Beer (Fillet of), roasted.—This fillet 
lies only in the inside of the sirloin next 
_to the chine, and is the tenderest part 
of the ox; spit this ona small spit, but 
do not run it through the best part of the 
meat: roast it gently, and baste it with 
butter; catch gravy in a dish while the 
beef is roasting ; in the mean time make 
a sauce for it with sweet herbs and pars- 
ley shred fine, the yolks of four eggs, an 
onion, and some orange peel chopped 
small; put these into sweet butter, 
gravy, a spoonful pr two of strong broth 
and vinegar, stew themall together. Put 
your beef into this sauce, and serve it hot. 

Beer (Fillet of ) roasted and larded.* 
—Trim your fillet ; lard it fine, and let it 
soak for twelve hours in a marinade made 
of good cil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet 
herbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in 
slices. After it has soaked, take it out, 
and put it on the spit before a quick fire. 
It must not be too much done, but should 
te taken off the spit with the gravy in it; 
Serve it with a sauce made of its own 
gravy, a little vinegar, shalots, salt, and 
pepper, put into a sauce-boat. : 

Beer ( Fillet of), roasted and larded.— 
Take off the superfluous fat, and tie the 
fillet ready for cooking; lard it at each 

extremity, leaving the middle without 
lard ; let it soak some days in oil, sea- 
soned with onions, parsley, lemon-juice, 
and pepper. Truss it in the form of an S, 
or a round, and roast it till it attains a 
good colour. Dish it with any sauce you 
may think best. 

Beer, forced Meat, in form of a Pud- 
ding.—Mince a piece of tender beet, with 
as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits 
of bacon, two or three eggs, parsley, sha- 
lots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a 
little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix 

all together, and roll it into the form of a 

‘large pudding, placing round it thin 
Slices of bacon ; over the bacon put white 
paper, and upon the paper a paste made 
of flour and water; bake it about two 
hours in the oven, and when done take 
off the paste and bacon. If you serve it 
hot, add a relishing sauce ; if cold, leave 
the Ps till you are ready to serve, and 
send it up in a second course. 

Beer Fricandeau.—Take a nice bit of 
Jean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and all- 
spice. Putit into astewpan with a pint 
of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle 
of parsley, al] sorts of sweet herbs,a clove 
of garlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, 
pepper and salt. When the meat is be- 


( 49 ) 


BEE 


come tender, cover it close; skim the 
sauce well, and strain it. Set it on the 
fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a 
glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, 
and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. 

Beer Fried. —Cut your beef into 
steaks, beat it with the back of a 
shredding knife; take out all the fat, 
and then put them into a frying-pan, 
with a sufficient quantity of butter to 
moisten the pan; set it over a moderate 
fire, turn your beef often, and as the 
gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out, 
then fry the fat by itself, and lay it on 
the lean, then put a little anchovy, 
Onion, nutmeg, pepper and claret, in the 
gravy, and stew ita little. 3 

Beer Gobbets.*—Take about six pounds 
of any piece of beef, except the leg or 
shin, cut it into pieces about the size ofa 
hen’s egg, put them into a stew-pan, and 
Just cover them with water, put them 
over the fire, and when the scum rises, 
skim it clear off, then put in some cloves, 
mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in 
a muslin, six heads of celery, cut an inch 
long and well washed, a carrot or two cut 
in slices, two turnips cut in dice, a bun- 
dle of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, 
and a crust of bread ; stew it till the meat 
is tender, and then take out the spice, 
herbs, and bread; have some crusts of 
French roll crisped before the fire, put 
them in a dish, and put the meat, &c. over 
them. You put in two ounces of Scotch 
barley or rice when you put in the herbs. 

Beer Gobbets, stewed in the Frenck 
fushion.—Take any piece of beef, ex- 
cepting the leg, cut it in bits as big as 
pullets eggs, both of fat and lean; stew 
it in a.stewpan with water, skim it clean, 
and when it has boiled an hour, putin 
salt, whole pepper, cloves, mace, car- 
rots, turnips, parsnips,and whole onions; 
cover it close, and let it stew till it is 
tender, putting in (half an hour before it 
is finished,) parsley, thyme, sweet mar- 
joram, spinach, sorrel, and winter sa- 
vory; add some claret, then dish it on 
sippets, and serve it hot. Garnish with 
barberries, grapes, or gooseberries. 

Beer Gravy.—Cut a piece of the chuck 
or neck into small pieces, strew some 
flour over it, mix it well with the meat, 
and put it into the saucepan, with as 
much water as will cover it, an onion, a 
little allspice, a little pepper, and some 
salt. Cover it close, and:when it boils, 
skim it, then throw in a hard crust of 
bread, or some raspings, and stew it till 
the gravy is rich and gvod}; strain it off, 
and pour it into the sauce-boat. __ 

Beer Gristles, of different fashions.— 
Cut gristles of beef to what size you 
please a them in boiling water fora 





BEE 


moment, then braze them with a little 
broth, a glass of white wine, a faggot of 
parsley, chibbol, bay-leaves, thyme, 
basil, two cloves, one of garlick, whole 
pepper, and salt, sliced onions, and roots; 
when done, take the bottom of the braze, 
which you strain in a sieve, and skim the 
fat very clean off; then add to it a bit of 
butter rolled in flour, a little scalded 
chervil, finely chopped, and a lemon 
squeeze, or a little vinegar; serve this 
sauce upon the gristles. When thus 
brazed, you may serve upon them what 
ragout you please; you may also serve 
with them cabbage and sausages, first 
brazed about an hour with the gristles. 
They may be. served as fricandeaux, 
with any sort of stewed greens; or you 
may make them in the manner of pick- 
led pork, if you will pot some of them. 
Yon may preserve them a long while by 
simmering them some time in fresh 
hog’s lard, then placing them close inar 
earthen pan, and pouring the lard upon 
them till the meat is covered ; when it 
is cold, cover the pot, and keep it ina 
cool place. 

Brrr Hams.—Take a fat leg of beef, 
rub it well with saltpetre and salt pru- 
nella, beat fine; then take an ounce of 
bay salt well dried, anounce of saltpetre, 
beat fine, a pound of coarse sugar, anda 
pound of common salt; rub this pickle 
well in every day for a month, then roll 
itin bran or saw-dust, and bang it in 
wood smoke, or burn horse-litter under 
it for ten days or a fortnight; hang it in 
a dry place near the chimney, for a 
week, it will then keep very well, covered 
over with bran. Any other piece of beef 
may be done in the same pickle. 

Beer (Hashed).*—Take three or four 
onions, chop them very fine, and put 
them into a stew pan, with a piece of but- 
ter and a little flour ; stir it over the fire 
till nearly done and well browned; then 
moisten them with alittle stock and halfa 
glass of wine, adding some salt and coarse 
pepper; let them stew till they are 
thoroughly done, and very little sauce 
remains ; then put in the cold beef, 
minced small, and let the whole simmer 
tillit has taken the flavour of the onion. 
When you serve, add a spoonful of mus- 
tard and a little vinegar. 

Beer Hashed.—Cut some of the under- 
done part of the beef, in slices, with some 
of the fat, put it into a small stewpan, 
with some onion or shalot, (a very little 
will do), a little water, pepper, and salt: 
boil it, till the onion is guite soft, then 
put some of the gravy of the meat to it, 
and the hash. Do not let it boil; have 
asmall hot dish with sippets of bread 
ready, and put the hash into it, but first 


( 50 ) 


BEE 


mix a large spoonful of _vi egar with it; 
if shalot vinegar is used, there will be no 
need of the onion or raw shalot, You 


may adda speonful of walnut liquor or 


catsup. =... 8 ahi 
Observe, that it is owing to doting 


hashes or minces, that they get hard: 


All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a se- 
cond time, should be only simmered ; 
and this last only hot through. : ‘ 

Beer Heart.—Wash it carefully; stuff 


it the same as you would a hare} roast — 


or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy, 
and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the 
Same, and port wine. - 
Beer Heart, ad la 
beef heart into slices, and let it soak 


some days, as you wouldalarded fillet 


of beef; when you wish to dress it broil 
it, and dish up on a podvrade sauce. — 
Beer (Hung.)—Put a rib of beef into.a- 


strong brine of bay salt, salt-petre, and: 


spring water, for nine days, then hang it 
up ina chimney where wood or sawedust 
is burnt. Whena little dry, wash the 


‘outside with bleod two or three times to 


make it look black, and when dry enough, 
boil it for use. age oe 
Breer: (Hung.)—The proper piece is 


that called the navel-piece;:it must be — 


hung up in.a cellar until it is a little 
damp, but not long enough to change}; 
take it down, and wash it very well in’ 
brown sugar and: water, dry it with a: 
cloth, cut itin two or three pieces; take. 


half a pound of brown sugar, two pounds . 


of bay salt dried and pounded small, six 


ounces ef salt-petre dried and beat fine, — 


rub it well into the beef, then strew com- 


mon salt all over it, a8 much as will make. c, 


it salt enough}; let it lie together ten 
days, changing the pieces from the bot- 


the warmth of the fire, but not too near; 
when it is dressed, boil it in hay and. 
pump water, until tender: it will keep 
two or three months ; when mouldy, it is 
dipped in water. . 


Buer (To Keep.)—The butcher should 


‘s 


take out the kernels in the neck pieces, 
where the shoulder cloed is taken off, two 
from each round of beef; one in the mid- 
dle, which is called the pope’s eye, the 
other from the flap; there is also one in 
the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. 
If these are not taken out, especially in 
tke summer, salt: will be of no use for. 
keeping the meat sweet. There is ano- 


ther kernel between the rump and the | — 


edge bone. As the butchers seldom at- 
tend to this matter, the cook should 
out the kernels; and then rub the salt . 
well into such beef as is for boiling, and . 
slightly sprinkle that which is for roast- 
ing. : A . 


Poivrade.—Cut a 





take. 





tom to the top; hangit where it mayhave. © ~ 


« 





4 BEE 
_Besr Kidnies, @ la Bourgeoise.*— 
Take some kidneys, cut them into thin 
Slices, and broil them with a piece of 
butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, and 
green onions, and a clove of garlic, the 
whole should be shred fine; when they 
are sulliciently done, take them off the 
fire (they should not broil too long, or 


(41) 


_they will become tough); add, when you | 


_ serve them, a few drops of vinegar and a 
little cullis. Beef kidneys may likewise 
be served a lu braise, with shalot sauce, 
or sauce piguanie.. teh 
- Beer Kidney and Mustard Sauce.— 
Fry sliced onions in butter to half; cut 
_ the kidney into small pieces, and put it 
to the onions ina stewpan, with pepper 
and salt, and stew it on a slow fire (the 
kidney will furnish liquor enough); add 
the mustard when ready. Beef kidneys 
make very good gravy. 

Besr Kidney Pie.—Cut some kidneys 
into thin slices, and place them in the 
-bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet 
herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, 
‘Shalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt ; 
continue. this till the dish is full, then 
cover the whole with slices of bacon, 
then finish your pie ; bake itin the oyen ; 
when done, i out. the bacon, and 

. skim off the fat; make a sauce with a 
glass of white wine, a tolerable quantity 
of cullis, and reduce it to the consist- 
ence of a good sauce, then squeeze a 
oe orange in it. Serve your pie 

ot. 

-. Beer Kidneys, aw saufé.*—Cut the 
kidneys into pieces, and toss them ina 
pan with a piece of butter, some chopped 
parsley, shalots, mushroom, salt, pep- 
per, and a little grated nutmeg; then 
thicken with a pinch of four, and moisten 
with half a glass of white wine, two 
‘spoonsful of Spanish sauce; take it off 
the fire before it boils, add a piece of 
‘butter and the juice of alemon. Serve 
ee ig hot, and garnish with fried 

read. 

Beer Kidney shredded.—Take a kid- 
ney, braze it till very tender; shred it, 
then serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or 
any other greens you like better. It 
should be rather highly relished. 

Beer Kidneys with Vine Sauce.*—Cut 
the kidneys into thin slices, sprinkle 
them with flour, and fry them in butter, 
with salt, pepper, pesley, and green 
onions, shred fine. hen fried, moisten 
them with white wine, then adda little 
stock, and serve. 

Beer (Minced)—Shred the underdone 

rt fine ; with some of the fat; put it 
into a small stew-pan, with some onion 
or shalot (a very little will do), a little 
water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the 


BEE 
onion is quite soft, then put some of the 
gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. 
Do not let it boil. Have asmall hot dish 
with sippets of bread ready, and pour the 
mince into it, but first mix a large spoon- 
fal of vinegar with it; if shallot-vinegar 
is used, there will be no need of the onion 
nor the raw shalot. : 
Beer, Minced.* — Take some cold 
roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat 


and suet, then chop the meat as fine as 


possible, and put it intoa reduced Spa- 
nish sauce made boiling hot; when ready 
to serve, add a bit of butter toit. Serve 


‘your mince with soft boiled eggs round 


it, or with pieces of toasted bread. 

Brees, Minced.*—Mince your beef 
very small; put it into a saucepan with 
a little gravy and a little of the fat of 
fowl or any other fat, moisten it with 
some stock and a little white wine; sea- | 
son according to your taste, then let it 
simmer over a gentle fire till it is suffi- 
ciently done. 

Beer, Minced, 4 la Vinaigrette.*— 
Mix up some salt, pepper, and a little 
mustard with 2 spoonful of vinegar; add 
same sweet herbs, shalots, &c., pickled 
cucumbers, cut very small; then mix 
the whole together, with two or three 
spoonsful of oil of olives; put this pre- 
paration into @ dish, and serve your 
minced beef over it. 

Bezr en Miroton *—Brown, in butter, 
some slices of onions, moisten with a 
little stock; then put in your slices of 
beef, let it boil a short time, then serve 
iten Miroton; add some mustard, or a 
little vinegar. 

Baer @ la Mode.*—Take a rump or 

iece of beef, bone it, beat it well and 
ard it with fat bacon, then put it into a 
stew-pan with some rind of bacon, a calf’s 
foot, an onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a bay leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, 
some cloves, salt, and pepper, pour over 
the whole a glass of water, let itstewover 
a blow fire for six hours at least. A clean 
cloth should be placed ever the stew-pan 
before the lid is put on, which must be 
carefully closed. When it is done, strain 
the gravy through a sieve, clear off the 
fat, and serve. 

Berr a la Mode.*—Welllard and spice 
apiece of beef; put it into a stewpan, 
with some carrots, onions, acalf’s foot, 
boned, and seasoned according to taste; 
moisten with stock or white wine (put 2 
cloth round the lid of the stewpan), and 
let it cook over a gentle fire. It may be 
served either hot or cold. The gravy 
should be strained through a sieve. 

Breer @ la Mode.*—Take some of the 
round of beef, the veiny piece, or small 
round, (what is generally called the 





BEE 


mouse buttock), cut it five or six inches 
thick, cut some pieces of fat bacon into 
long bits; take an equal quantity. of 
beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with 
double the quantity of salt, if wanted ; 
mix them together; dip the bacon into 
some vinegar, (garlic vinegar, if agree- 
able), then into the spice ; lard the beef 
with a larding pin, very thick and even, 
put the meat into a pot just big enough 
to hold it, witha gill of vinegar, two large 
onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a 
pint of red wine, some lemon peel ; cover 
it down very close, and put a wet cloth 
round the edge of the pot, to prevent the 
steam evaporating ; when itis half done 
turn it, and cover it up again; do it over 
a stove, or a very slow fire: it will take 
five hours and a half before it is done. 
Truffles and morels may be added. 

Beer Olives.*—Take some thin rump 
steaks, cut them what size you please, 
make force meat as for veal, put some of 
it into each piece of steak, roll them u 
and skewer them, fry them brown until 
they are half done, then stew them in 
gravy half an hour, with truffles, morels, 
and mushrooms, 

Beer Pasty.—Take asmall rump or 
Sirloin of beef, bone it, and beat it well 
with a rolling pin; to five pounds of 
your beef take two ounces of sugar, rub 
it well into the meat, and let it lie for 
twenty-four hours; then either wipe it 
clean or wash it off with a little c aret, 
and season it high with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, put it into your pasty, and lay 
over it a pound of butter ; close it up and 
bake it. Put the bones in a pan with 
just as much water as will cover them, 
and bake them to make gravy, and when 
the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, 
put in some of this gravy. 

Beer 4 la Paysanne.*—Take a slice 
of beef, cut it into little pieces, with 
some streaked bacon, parsley, scallion 
‘chopped small, fine spices, and a laurel 
leaf; take a tureen, and first put in a 
layer of beef, then a layer of bacon, and 
continue first with a layer of beef then of 
bacon, with a little seasoning, then put 
in_ a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- 
fuls of water, close the lid of the tureen, 
and let it stew over some hot ashes; 
when done, you may either clear off the 
fat or not, according as you think proper, 
then serve it in the tureen. 

Beer (Pickled).—Take a piece of beef, 
stick it all over with garlick and cloves, 
season it well with salt, mace, and all- 
spice, cover the meat with vinegar and 
turn it every day for a fortnight; as the 
vinegar wastes, add more; then putitina 
stew-pot with some vinegar and white 
wine, cover it down very close, stew it 


( 52) 


BEE : 


six hours, if a large piece; add vinégar 
and white wine to it as it stews, if neces- 
sary: some onions should be stewed to 
eat. withit. a “OY 
Beer to Pickle the Jews’ Way.—Take 
any piece of beef without bones, or take 
the bones out, it you intend to keep it 
above a month ; take mace, eloves, nut- 
meg, and penpet juniper berries beat 
fine, and rub the beef well, mix salt and 
jamaica pepper and bay leaves ; let it be 
well seasoned, letit lie in the seasoning 
a week or ten days, throw in a good deal 
of garlic and shalots; boil some of the 
best white wine vinegar, lay your meat 
in a pan or good vessel for the purpose, 
with the pickle; and when the vinegar 
is quite cold, pour it over; cover it close. 
If it is for a voyage, cuver it with oil, and 
let the cooper hoop up the barrel very 
well. This isa most excellent way ina 
hot country, where meat will not keep, 
then it must be put into the vinegar 
directly with the seasoning, then you 
may either roast or stew it, but it is best 
when stewed; and add a good deal of 
onion and parsley chopped fine, some 
white gravy, a little catsup, truffles 
and morels, a little good gravy, a piece 
of butter rolled in flour, or a little oil, in 
which the meat and onions ought to stew 
a quarter of an hour before the other in- 
gredients are put in; then put all in, 
stirthe whole well, and let it stew till 
fay think it is sufficiently done. This. 
s a good pickle in a hot country, to 
nad beef or veal that is dressed to eat 
cold, 
Beer Pie a la Chasse.*—Trim a fine 
leg of beef. Take a pound of lean raw 
ham, and cut it into dardons six inches 
in length, and half an inch in diameter; 
then cut into dardons of the same size 
two pounds of fat bacon, rub the dardons 
of bacon over with one ounce of galt 
(seasoned with spices) and two spoonfuls 
of very fine chopped sweet herbs. Weigh 
your beef, and according to its weight to. 
each pipe of meat take four drachms of 
spiced salt, and ne this salt apart ; then 
lard your beef a | over with the lardons 
of ham and bacon (patting a lardon of 
ham between two fardons of bacon) ard 
sticking these /ardons at three quarters 
of an inch distance from each other. 
When your beef is connlesr ie larded, tie 
itinasneat around as possible. Linea 
stew-pan with lards of bacon, adding a 
pound of ham cut into thin slices, then 
put in your beef, with two carrots, four 
Onions, (two of which should be stuck 
with cloves)parsley, scallion, bay, thyme, 
basil, adding three spoonfuls of the rip- 
pine of fowls, or a glass of consommé, a 
ottle of madeira, half a glass of brandy, 





~ one, and one spoonful of velouté. 


BEE 


and the spiced salt which you had pre- 
viously put apart. Cover the whole with 
buttered paper. After it has boiled for 


half an hour, place it by the side of the 
‘Stove and let it simmer for five hours ; 
then put it into a cool 


1 lace, and let it 
cool in its own liquor. hen it is cold 
bees your beef upon a dish, pass your 
iquor through a napkin, then take the 
ham and the bacon (which have been 
boiled with the beef), and mince them 
with a pound of fillet of veal, adding to 
this mince twelve drachms of spiced salt, 
four spoonsful of finely chopped herbs, 
the yolks of three eggs and the von of 

ut 
this farce into a pan, and add an ox pa- 
late & l’écarlate cut into little dice. This 
preparation finished, take some paste 
and form it intoa round, to answer the 
purpose of a dish; put half of the farce 
into the bottom of your paste spredding. 
it all about; then trim your beef so that 
it will easily go into the paste without 
spoiling the form of the paste; put the 
trimmings of the beef upon the farce 
which you have put at the bottom of the 
paste, then place upon it the beef, strew 
over itan ounce of spiced salt, and mash 


the beef with the rest of the farce ; and 


eover the whole with a pound of butter, 
and some lards of bacon; then cover 
with paste, ornament your pie, and put 
if in an oven, and let it bake for four 
hours. After it is baked pour into your 
ie the liquor in which the beef was 
Batted: this liquor ought not to exceed 
thrée glasses full; ifit does exceed this 
quantity it must be reduced; then close 
the pie very carefully with more paste. 

These pies are extremely delicious, 
and very useful in travelling ; but they 
never grace the Parisian tables ; they 
are usually made to send as presents to 
the different provinces, to celebrate some 
grand hunting parties. 

Beer Piesracsed with Trufies.— Bone 
asmallfatrump of beef, daub it with 
slips of fat bacon, put it into a raised 
crust with light force meat and plenty of 
whole peeled green trufiles round it; 
cover it with the paste, garnish and bake 
it two hours’; then add a sauce, made 
with @ pint of veal broth, a gill of lemon 
pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped shalltos 
and cayenne pepper ; make it of a proper 
thickness, and strain. Two hours after- 
wards, cut the top off the pie, skim it 
free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve 
it to table. 

Beer Portugal.—Take meat from a 
ramp of beef, cut it ‘across, fiour it, and 
fry the thin part brown in_ buiter; stuff 
the thick end with suet, boiled chesnuts, 
an anchovy, an onion, and a little pep- 


(8B) 


BEE 

per 5 stew it with good strong broth, and 
when tender, cut the fried in two, and 
lay it on each side of the stewed in the 
dish ; strain the gravy, put to it pickled 
gherkins chopped, and some broiled 
chesnuts. Thicken with burnt butter, 
and boil it up two or three times; sea- 


son with salt, pour it over the beef, gar- 


nish with lemon, and serve it. 

Beer (Potted).*—Take some lean beef, 
rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lay 
three or four days, then cut itin pieces, 
and boil it; then beat it toa powder, mix- 
ing with it some fat, add spice, put it in 
pots, and pour butter over it. : 

Beer (Potted).—Take two pounds of 
the fillet out of the inside of a rump of 
beef, and twa pounds of best fat bacon. 
Cut them small, put them in a marble 
mortar, add to them a small quantity of 
parsley, thyme, savory, four shalots 
chopped fine, some pepper, salt, twospoon- 
fuls of essence of ham, a spoonful of mush- 
room powder, sifted mace, cloves and all- 
spice, a little of each, twoeggs beaten, 
and a gill of rhenish wine. Pound all 
well together till quite fine; then fill 
small pots with the mixture, cover with 
paper, bake it very gently for forty mie 
nutes, and when cold, cover with clarified 
butter. 

Brzr Potted.—Take three pounds of 
lean beef, salt it two or three days with 
half @ pound of common salt, and half an 
ounce of saltpetre; divide it into pieces 
of a pound each, and put it into an 
earthen pan just sufficient to contain it ; 
pourin half a pint of water; cover it 
close with paste, and set it in avery slow 
oven for four hours: when taken from 
the oven pour the gravy from it intoa 
basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it 
with the gravy poured from the meat, 
and pound it thoroughly in a marbie 
mortar with fresh butter, till it becomes 
a fine paste, season it with black pepper 
and ailspice, or cloves pounded, or 
grated nugmeg; putit in pots, press it 
down as close as possible, put a weight 
on it, and let it stand all night; next 
day, when it is quite cold, cover it a 
quarter of an inch thick with clarified 
butter, and tie it over with paper. 

Beer, Potted like Venison.—Take a 
whole thin flank of beef, pull off the in- 
ward skin, and slash it across and across, 

articularly in the thickest parts; lay it 
or six hours in pump water, take as 
much hard salt, or saltpetre, as the . 
quantity of an egg, mixed with about 
two pounds of white salt, and rub it well 
into the meat; then sprinkle upon. it 
nearly apint of wine vinegar, and then let 
it lay for three or four days, turning and 
eS it once a day; then rinse it out 

uv 





BEE 


ofthe brine with a pint of claret, and 
season it with cloves, mace, and nut- 
meg, white and Jamaica pepper of each 
a quarter of an ounce, beaten all toge- 
ther with savory, thyme, sage, and the 
rind of a lemon, shred together, and 
then well rubbed into the cuts and 
slashes and the inside; then bind it up 
with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put 
in the claret, and lay the skins at the 
top to save it; then bake it. 

_. Buer a la Poulette.*— Mince some 
beef, and put it into a stew-pan with a 
piece of butter; when the butter is 
melted, add a good pinch of flour; stir 
the whole well together, and moisten it 
with a little water; season with salt, 
pepper, and parsley; when ready to 
serve, thicken it with the yolks of eggs 
and a little vinegar. j 

Beer (Pressed).—Salt a piece of brisket 
(thin part of the flank) or the tops of the 
ribs, with salt and saltpetre, five days, 
then boil it gently till extremely tender}; 
put it under a great weight, or in a cheese 
pe till perfectly cold. it eats excel- 

ently cold, and for sandwiches. 

Beer (a pretty side dish of).—Roast 
a tender piece of beef, lay fat bacon all 
Over it, and roll it in paper; baste it, 
and when it is roasted cut about two 
pounds in thin slices ; laythemin a stew- 
pan, and take six large cucnmbers, peel 
them, chop them small, lay over them a 
little pepper and salt, and stew them in 
butter for about ten minutes, then drain 
out the butter, and shake some flour 
over them; toss them up, pour in halfa 
pint of gravy, let them stew till they are 
thick, and then serve. 

Beer Ragodt.—Take a rump of beef, 
cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry 
it, pour over ita little boiling water, about 
a pint of small beer ; add a carrot or two, 
an onion stuck with cloves, some whole 
pepper, salt, a piece of lemon peel, a 

unch of sweet herbs; let itstewan hour, 
then add some good gravy; wheh the 
meat is tender take it out, strain the 
sauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a 
little celery ready boiled, a little catsup, 
put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or 
the celery may be omitted, and the ragoiit 
enriched by adding mushrooms fresh or 
pickled, artichoke-bottoms boiled and 
quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. 

A piece of flank, or any piece that can 
be cut free from bone, will do instead of 
the rump. 

Beer, Red for Slices.—Take a piece 
of thin flank of beef, and cut off the skin; 
then rub it well with a mixture made 
with two pounds of common salt, two 
ounces of bay salt, two ounces of éalt- 
petre, and a pound of moist sugar, 


( 54) 


BEE 


pounded in a marble mortar. Put it nto 
an earthen pan, and turn and rub it 
daily for a week; then take it out of 
the brine, wipe it, and strew all over it 
some pounded mace, cloves, pepper, & 
little allspice, and a good quantity of 
chopped PATEIEY. and a few shalots. 
Then roll it up, bind it round with 
tape, braise it till it is tender, press it 
in the same way as you press a collared 
pig,and when it is cold cut it in slices 
and garnish with pickled barberries.. 

Beer, (Rib of) dlabonne Femme.7— 
Trim a rib of beef, lard it with pieces of 
spiced bacon; melt a piece of butter 
about the size of two eggs, in a stew pan, 
then put in your beef, season with salt 
and pepper; and place your stew-pan 
Over a quick fire, turn your beef two or 
three times; when it is very hot, place 
your stewpan over a more gentile fire, 
put fire on the top of the stew-pan, then 
let it simmer for an hour and a half; 
serve it with its own liquor as a sauce, 

Beer, (Rib of) Bra:sed.—Trim a rib 
of beef, take out the bone, and lard it 
with pieces of bacon seasoned with nut- 
meg.cinnamon, allspice, cloves, salt and 
pepper ; line the bottom of a stew-pan 
with slices of bacon, slices of veal and 
beef. Have ready fourteen carrots, five 
large onions, three of which must be 
stuck with cloves, two bay leaves, a little 
thyme, a bunch of parsley, a bunch 
of scallions. Tie your beef into a neat 
form, and put it into the stew-pan ; cover 
it with bacon, then put in the vegetables 
with two large spoonfuls of stock; let 
the whole boil ; after which let it simmer 
gently for three hours over a moderate 
fire; then let it drain, and untie your 
beef; pass a little of the liquor through 
a silk sieve, clearit from the fat, reduce 
it, andserve it over the beef. The bee 
must be glazed. 4 

Beer, (Ribs) with Spinach or Endive.* 
—Take out the bones from some’ fine 
ribs of beef, then roast your meat, ang 
serve with spinach or endive all over 
the beef. . 

Beer, (Rid of) with Onions, Giazed.* 
—Trim and braise a rib of beef; when | 
done, untie it, let it drain, and put it on 
a dish, surrounded with onions glazed : 
moisten a Spanish sauce with a little of 
the liquor the beef was dressed in, clear 
it well from fat, pd it through a sieve, 
then serve it with the beef. 

Beer (Rib of), with Malaga Wine? — 
Prepare your beef the same as for brata- 
éng, (only rather more spicing the pieces 
of bacon with which you lard your beef ;) 
adding half a bottle of Malaga wine and 
halfa bottle of stock ; when your beef 


is done, strain the liquor through a 











BEE 


‘Bieve, (having been’ careful to clear it 
from fat) and reduce it to a single glass- 
ful, which youshould pour over the beef. 
Be careful that the reduced sauce is not 
too sharp, and that you do not season 
your beef with too much salt. 

Beer (Rib of ) & la Rocambole.*—Pre- 
pare the beef the same as Rib of Beef 
raised, only add a little garlic; and 
half a bottie of white wine; when the 
beef is done, drain it, and serve with 
rocamboles, (see RovAMBOLEs). The beef 
must be glazed. 

Beer, (Round of ).—Lard your round 
with gammon and other bacon, well sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, cloves, cinna- 
mon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, 
onions, parsley, shalots, all well mixed 
together ; let as much of these as you 
ean be stuffed into the bacon, and lard 
the buttock both on the top and under- 
neath; then season it again with all your 
ingredients, and put it into a stew-pan 
to be marinated a little while with 
onions, garlic shalots, parsley, sweet 
basil, thyme, slices of lemons, verjuice, 
and a little broth; letit lie in these two 
hours, then put it in a napkin with 
thio slices of bacon, wrapping it up close 
so that no fat may enter. Puta plate in 
the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin 
and meat from being burnt to the bot- 
tom, and boil it in the evening against 
the next day. To season it you may put 
in about two pounds of leaf fat of a hog’s 
belly, or beef suet, putting in some white 
wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, gin- 
ger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, 
onion, parsley, bay leaves, sweet basil, 
and whole coriander, anise and fennel ; 
when all these are put into the pot, let 
it be covered very close, and let the 
beef be stewed very gently; when it is 
sufficiently done, let it cool in its own 
fat; then make a godiveau, put it into 
the dish in which the piece of beef is to 
be dressed, then cover it with the same 
godiveau, then put it into an oven and 
let it bake for an hour. Before you 
serve it to table, prepare a well seasoned 
beef cullis, and make a round hole in the 
top of the godiveau, and pour in your 
cullis so that it may penetrate into every 
part, and then above this squeeze the 
juice of a lemon. This beef may be 
served up cold,in thin slices, instead of 
beef @ la Royale. 

Beer @ la Royale.—Bone a rump, sir- 
loin or brisket, and cut some holes in it 
ata little distance from each other: fill 
the holes, one with chopt oysters, another 
with fat bacon, and the other with chopt 

rsiey ; dip each of these, before the 

ef is stuffed, into a seasoning made with 
salt, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated 


(55) 


BEE 


lemon peel, sweet marjoram, and thyme; 
put a piece of butter into a frying pan, 
and when it has done hissing, put in the 
beef, make it of a fine brown, then put 
into it some broth made of the bones, with 
a bay leaf, a pint of red wine, two ancho- 
vies, and a quarter of a pint ofsmall beer; 
cover it close and let it stew till it is ten- 
der ; then take out the beef, skim off the 
fat, strain the gravy; add two ox-palates 
stewed tender and cut into pieces, some 
pickled gherkins, truffles, morels,and a lit- 
tle mushroom powder ; letall these boil to- 
gether ; thicken the sauce witha bit of but- 
ter rolled in flour, put in the beefto warm, 
pour the sauce over it, and serve it up. 

Beer (Rump of.)—The rump is es- 
teemed, in France, the best piece in the 
whole ox; it makes excellent soups, and 
graces the table as a middle dish. It is 
excellent boiled and served up plain ; or, 
when cleansed of its fat, it may be served 
with 4a sauce made of cullis, parsley, 
green onions, anchovies, capers, and a 
little garlic, the whole shred fine and 
well seasoned. It may also be served 
boiled and garnished with petzts-patés. 

Beer ( Rump of) Baked.*-Take a rump 
of beef, what size you please, bone and 
lard it, season it with salt and fine spices 
put it into a stewpan just large enough bo - 
hold it, together with half a pint of white 
wine, some green onions, mushrooms, 
and shallots; some lean bacon is an im- 
provement. Close the edges of the pan 
with a strong paste; let it stew in anoven 
for five or six hours according to the size 
of your meat, then serve it with its own 
sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin 
in the same way. 

Beer, (Rump of,) Boiled French Fa- 
shion.—Parboil your rump of heef for 
half an hour, take it up, and put it into 
adeep dish; cut gashesin the side of 
your meat, that the gravy may come out, 
put salt and pepper into every gash, then 
fillup the dish with claret, and put in 
two or three blades of mace, set it over 
a chafing dish of coals, and cover it close 
and let it stew for an hour and a half, 
turning the meat several times whilst it 
is stewing, then take oif the fat, putin a 
handful of capers, five or six sliced 
onions, half-a-dozen verjuice. Boil all 
together till the meat is tender, and 
serve it up to table with brown bread and 
ee fried in butter. 

EEF (Rump of) @ la Braise, with 
Dutch Onions.*—Take a fine rump of 
beef, bone it, and tie it with a packthread, 
and put itin a draise with a pint of white 
wine, some good stock, aslice of veal, 2 
rasher of bacon, a large bunch of herbs, 
pepper and salt; when it is half done, 
add about thirty Dutch or large red 





BEE 


onions. When the beef is done, take it 
out and clear off the fat; putit ina dish 
witk the onions round; pour over it a 
good brown sauce. A rump of beef dress- 
edin this way may be varied with differ- 
ent sauces or raguuts, according to your 
taste. Re ae 

Beer (Rump of) a@ la Cardinale.*— 
Choose a rump of beef of ten or twelve 
pounds, and having taken out the bone, 
lard it with a pound of bacon, cut it in 
bits, and season it with salt and spices. 
The upper part of the beef, which is 
covered with fat, should not be larded. 

Next, take four ounces of powdered salt- 

petre and rub into the meat, that it may 
look red ; put itin a pan with one ounce of 
‘bruised juniper berries, three bay leaves, 
a little thyme and basil, and one pound 
of coarse salt; let it remain eight days, 
the pan being well covered. When the 
meat has taken the salt, wash it in warm 
water, and put some slices of bacon upon 
the upper part, or that which is covered 
with fat, tying a linen-cloth over the 
whole with packthread: then let it stew 
gently for five hours with a pint and a 
half of red wine, a quart of water, five or 
six onions, two cloves of garlic, four or 
five carrots, two parsnips, a bay leaf, 
thyme, basil, four or five cloves, parsley, 
green onions, and the quarter of a nut- 
meg. When it is done, leave it to cool in 
its own liquor, and when quite cold, 
serve. The short ribs of beef may be 
done in the same manner. 

Beer (Rump of) in tts.own Gravy.— 
Boil a boned rump of beef on a very slow 
fire, in short liquid, about ¢ight or nine 
hours, with a faggot of parsley, chibbol, 
two laurel leaves, a clove of garlick, two 
shalots, thyme, four cloves, half a nut- 
meg, pepper and salt; when it is done, 
skim off the fat very weil, and serve it 
with the broth after having strained it. 

Beer Salted.—Beef should be well 
sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards 
hung to drain, before it is rubbed with 
the salt; which method, by cleansing the 
meat from the blood, serves to keep it 
from tasting strong: it should be turned 
every day; and, if wanted soon, should 
be rubbed as often: <A salting tub or 
lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. 
Those who use a good deal of salt meat, 
will find it answer well to boil up the 
pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it 
over the meat that has been sprinkled 
and drained. 

Bees Salted (for immediate use.)—The 
phece shouid not weigh more than five or 
six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just 
before you put it into the pot; take a 
coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat 
m, and fold it up close: put it into a pot 


a a | 


BEE 

of boiling water, and boil it aslong as you 
would any other salt beef of the same _ 
size, and it will be as salt as if done four 
or five days. — Caen s » 

Beer Salted (in the Dutch way.-— 
Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well | 
with brown sugar (some pour treacle over 
it) ; let it. lie at least two days, turning it 
very often; then wipe it, and salt it with 
common salt and saltpetre: beat the salt- _ 
petre fine, rub itwell in, and turn it every 
day for fourteen or fifteen days ; then roll 
it very tight in a coarse cloth, and press 
it down with a large weight; hang it to 
dry in a chimney, but turn it the bottom 
upwards every day ; then boil it In pump” 
pee it will cut into shivers like Dutc 

eer. Ot. ; ae 2 

Beer Salted Red, which is extremely 
good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to- 
hang to dry.—Choose a piece of beef with 
as little bone as you can, (the flank is 
most proper) sprinkle it and let it drain 
a day, thenrub it with common salt, salt- 
petre, and bay salt, but only a small pro- 
portion of the saltpetre, and you may 
add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine 
powder; rub the pickle every day into 
the meat for a week, then only turn it. 

It will be excellent in eight days. In 
sixteen, drain it from the pickle, and let 
it be smoked at the oven mouth when 
heated with wood, or send it to the 
baker’s; a few days will smoke it. 

A little of the coarsest sugar may be 

added to the salt. 
- Iteats well, boiled tender with greens 
or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, 
then cut a /ean bit, boil it till extremely 
tender, and, while het, put it under a 
press.. When eold fold it in a sheet of 
paper, and it will keep in a dry place two 
or three months, ready for serving on 
bread and butter, 

Beer Sausages.°—Take two beefsteaks 
about the size of two hands, and the 
thickness of a finger; beat them well to 
make them flat, and pare the edges of 
them; then mince the parings with beef 
suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, . 
two shallots, and some basil leaves, the 
whole shred fine, and mixed into a force- 
meat with the yolksof four eggs; spread 
this forcemeat on the slices of beef, and 
roli them up in the form ofsausages ; tie 
them up with packthread, and stew them 
with a little stock, a glass of wine, some 
salt, pepper, an onion stuck with two or | 
three cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; 
when they are done, strain the liquor; 
and, having skimmed off the fat, reduce 
it over the fire to the consistence of a 
sauce, Take care that the sauce is not 
too highly flavoured, and serve it over. 
your sausages; or they may be served 





~ 


_ lemon juice; 


‘Serve it np 
Ss 


BEE 
with any ragout of vegetables you please. 
To serve the sausages cold, to make a 
dish for the second course, reduce the 
Sauce by letting it boil with the sausages 
till almost all the fatis consumed; then let 
them stand to cool with what remains of 
the sauce adhering to them, and serve 
upon a napkin. 

‘Beer (Sirloin of )in Epigram.— Having 
roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up 
the skin of the meat, which you must cut 
out and mince in fine shreds; but take 
care that you donot cut the sides. Have 


.@ Strong brown sauce ready with a few 


mushrcoms, pepper, and salt, anda little 
put in the mince, lay it 
inside the beef, and cover the skin over, 
hot with a strong gravy, 
Beer (small Sirloin of) Ragoat.— 
Braise a bit of sirloin, larded with large 
Jardons in broth, and a pint of white wine; 
add a faggot of sweet herbs, onions, and 
roots. When done, take it out, and 
serve it with a ragout of sweetbreads, of 
mushrooms, ar any other kind of ragout. 
BeErr Shirts.—Beef skirts eat well 
broiled; they also make a most excellent 


pie. 

Beer Smoked @ la Hambourg.*—Take 
a rump of beef, put it into a pan with 
juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of 
garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions cut in 
slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so 
as to exclude all air: turn your meat 
every two or three days: at the end ofa 
fortnight take ft out, and, after having 
washed it in several waters, drain it for 
four-and-twenty hours ; then wrap it ina 
clean cloth, and put it in a saucepan and 


‘Jet it stew for seven or eight hours; take 


it out and let it drain, and serve it cold 
the same as aham. 

Beer Soup.* — Take a shin or leg 
of beef, cut it in pieces, with: six 
onions, two carrots, celery, leeks, two 
turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black 
pepper, and allspice to your taste; put 
all this, with the beef, into & stewpan, 
without water, over & slow fire for an 
hour, then pour over it two quarts of 
boiling water ; let it stew till the meat is 
tender, and if you have not sufficient 


- soup add more water; when the beef is 


tender enough, takeout all the best parts 
and let the rest stew with the herbs un- 
til quite arag, then strain all off, and add 
some herbs as the former, stewed in a 
pan by themselves with a little water; 
the carrots, &c. must be cut about an 
inch long; the water they are stewed in 
may be put into thesoup; then let your 
beef and all be stewed together; but it 
must not boil quite; and be nicely skim- 


med, 
Beer Soused.—Take either buttock, 


( 57 ) 


BEE 


chuck, or brisket of beef, season with 
saltand pepper for four days, then roll 
them up as even as you can, tiea cloth 
fast about it, and boil it in water and 
salt till it be tender, then souse it in 
water and vinegar, and a little white 
wine and salt; putitintoa hook frame 
to form it round and upright; then dry 
it in some smoky place, or in the air. 
When you wish to useit, cut it out in 
ura and serve it with sugar and mus- 
ard. 

Beer, Spring Garden.—Cut a piece 
of Jean beef into thin slices like Scotch 
collops, lard it thick with bacon, and put 
it into a pan with salt, pepper, mace, 
two or three bay-leaves, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs; bake it; then clear out all 
the gravy, and fill it up with clarified 
butter. 

‘Brer Steaks a la Bourgeotse.—Lard 
the steaks here and there with large lar- 
dons; put them into the pan with chopped 
parsley, shalots, thyme, laurel, salt, 
whole pepper, and a glass of white wine ; 
let them soak two hours, then simmer 
them till done. You may serve them 
either hot or cold, 

Beer Steak brotled.*—Cut your steaks 
rather thick, beat them well, and ma- 
rinate them in oilor vinegar with alittle 
fine salt; then broil them ona gridiron 
over a clear, quick fire ; but before you 
broil your steaks make a preparation 
with some fresh butter, salt, parsley, 
chopped fine and mixed together with 
the juice of a lemon; put this prepara- 
tion into a dish made very hot, and serve 
your steaks upon it. 

You may garnish with fried slices of 
potatoe, slices of pickled cucumber, and 
cresses; some make use of anchovy 
sauce instead of the parsley. 

Beer Steaks broiled.—The best steaks 
are cut from the middle of the rump; let 
them be cut half an inch thick, then beat 
with a rolling-pin; season them with 
pepper and salt; let the fire be very brisk 
and clear, the gridiron very clean 3 set 
the dish before the fire upon a chaffing 
dish to keep hot; turn the steaks often 
with a pair of small tongs made on pur- 
pose ; when they are done enough, lay 
them in the dish, and rub a bit of butter 
over them. 

Be sure not to season them till they 
are put upon the gridiron. 

Brer Steak broiled, a ? Anglaise.*7— 
Prepare your steaks the same as for 
Steaks sauté au vin de Madére, then rub 
them with pepper and salt; dip them in 
melted butter, and then rub them with 
bread crumbs; broil them, and serve 
with a maitre d’hétel. 

Breer Steaks fried.—Pepper and salt 





some rump steaks, stew them with some 
water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of 
sweet lierbs, an anchovy ortwo, an onion, 
a piece of lemon peel, and twe or three 
cloves; cover them close; when tender, 
take them out, flour them pretty well, 
fry them, pour off the fat, strain the 
liquor that they were stewed in, put it to 
the steaks, with’catsup or mushroom 
powder and liquor, oysters and their 
liquor, lemon- juice; simmer this up; 
garnish with pickles. 

Brzr Steak Pie..— Take some fine 
rump steaks, beat them with a rolling- 
pin, then season them with pepper and 
salt according to. taste. Mlakea good 
crust, lay in your steaks, fill your dish, 
then pour in as much water as will half 
fillthe dish. Puton the crust, and bake 
it well. te 

‘Beer Steak Pie.—Beat your steaks 
with a rolling-pin, flour and season with 
pepper and salt} when seasoned and 
rolled with fat in each, put them in a 
dish, with puff paste round the edges; 
puta little water in the dish, and cover 
it with a good crust, - 

Beer Steak Pie raised.—Take rump 
steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat 
the steaks with a chopper, cut them 
into middling-sized pieces, pass them 
witha bit of fresh butter, pepper, salt, 
Jemon.juice, and shalots chopped, and 
when half done, put them ina dish till 
cold. Blanch oyster, strain them, and 
preserve the liquor; raise acrust, puta 
layer of steaks at the. bottom, some 
oysters upon it, and so, alternately; 
cover the pie, ornament, and bake it. 
When done, put into it a good cullis, 
with the oyster liquor and some catsup 
mixed withit, and serve it. 

Steaks with oysters may be done the 
same way, put into a deep dish, and co- 
vered with puff paste. - 


Berr Steak Pudding. — Beat your | 


steaks with a rolling-pin, season them, 
and roll them with fat between; and if 
you approve shred onton, add a very 
little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, 
and put in the rollers of steaks; 
cover the basin with a paste, and pinch 
the edges to keep the gravy in; cover 
-with a cloth tied close, and let the pud- 
ding boil slowly, but for a length of 
time. - 

Beer Steak Pudding. —Take flour, 
chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, 
‘and one egg, and mix ‘them well toge- 
ther. Roll out the paste, of half an 
inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl 
with it; then trim-the skin from the 
meat, beat. the steaks well with a chop- 
per, cut them into middling-sized pieces, 
season with pepper and salt, put them 


( 58)) : 
| into the basin with blanched oysters and 


BEE 


slices of potatoes, alternately (or slices 
of onion); cover the top with paste, and 
tie a cloth over the basin. Boil the pud- 
ding (if of a middling size) two hours, 
and when it is te be served up, put lato 
ita little cullisand catsup. 
Beer Steak Pudding, baked.—Make 
a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or, 
which is much better, potatoes boiled 
and mashed through a cullender; laya 
little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then 
putin the steaks, prepared as above, and 
very well seasoned; pour the remainder 
of the batter over them, and bake it. . 
Beer Steaks rolled.—Take three or 
four large steaks, and flat them with a 
cleaver.. Make a farce with the flesh of 
a capon, some of a fillet of veal, and 
some gaminon of bacon, both fat and lean; 
add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweet 
breads, young onions, parsley, mush- 
rooms, and truffles, the yolks of four 
eggs with a little cream}; season all these 
very well with spice and herbs, and hash 
them, then strew them on your Slices of 
beef, and roll it up very handsomely, 
that they may be firm andof a good size} 
then let them stew a good while. When 
they are sufficiently done, take them up 
and drain away the fat, then slit them in 
two and lay them ina dish, the cut side 
uppermost ; and serve them either with 
a ragout or cullis. ga 
Beur Steak Sauté au vin de Madére.* 
—Cut out the skin-and nerves from your 
steaks, and cut them into escaloppes. 
égales, beat them and trim them into the 
form of a round; melt some butter ina 
haa | and lightly fry your steaks 
in it; when they are done of a nice light 
colour, arrange them on a dish in form of 
a crown, drain the butter from the toss- 
ing-pan, and put the liquor by; then 
put a glassof Madeira into your tossing- 
pan, and reduce it with a little veal 
glaze and a little Spanish sauce, adding 
a little pimento butter ; when your sauce 
is of a nice dark colour, strain it through 
a Sieve and serve it with your steaks, 
Beer Steaks Sauté with Olives.7— 
Prepare your steaks the same as for 
Steaks Sauté au vin de Madere; then: 
fry with a piece of butter or lard; when 
dene, dress them ona dishin form of a 
crown, and pour into the middle of the 
crown a ragoiit of olives. sia ts 
Beer Steaks, & la Servante.—Cut the 


Slices thin ; lay a down of sliced lard, then 


of steaks, fine herbs, and spices, and so 
on till you have done; add a glass of 
brandy, and stop the pot very well with 
paste to keep the steam in; let it simmer 
five or six hours, on a very slow fire. 
They may be served either hot or cold, 





BEE 


Beer Stock.—This is made from the 
legs, shin, and scrags of beef, or any 
bones that are to spare; chop them into 

ieces, wash them, and put them in a 


arge poton the fire, filled half with cold 


and half with hot water; it must be 
closely attended to when it begins to boil, 
in order to take off the scum; then set it 
on one side of the stove to boil gently 
and put in three or four carrots well 
scraped and washed, onions, parsley, 
peericome, salt, and one clove of gar- 
‘ick ; put the cover on,and mind to skim 
it when wanted. When the meat is done 
to pieces, run it through the sieve, the 
same as a consommeé. This serves for 
plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for 
vegetable soups, Sc., if required. 

Beer Stock.—Put chuck beef, cut in 
pieces, into a pot, set it on the fire with 
water enongh to coverit.. When boiling, 
skim it clean ; adda bunch of parsley and 
thyme, cleaned carrots, leeks, onions, 
turnips, celery, and a little salt; boii 
the meat till it is tender, skim off the fat, 
and strain it through a fine hair sieve. 

Beer Suet and Marrow, how 10 use.— 
To use suet and marrow, all the skin 
and sinews should be picked out wery 
carefully. It is used for most forced 
meats, (and the marrow is used for par- 
ticular cccasions), and is extremely good 
to put into braises, being very nourishing. 
If you wish to use it instead of butter, 
soak if in luke-warm water, turning and 
pressing it with your hands to render it 
soft, and to squeeze cut the water. 

Beer Tansy.—Take seven eggs, leav- 
ing out two whites, and a pint of cream, 
some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, 
strawberry leaves, shred very small; add 
a plate of grated bread; mix all well 
together, and fry them the same as all 
other tansies are fried, but not too 
brown. 

Beer Jea.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef 
in thin slices; simmer with a quart of 
water twenty minutes, after it has once 
boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if 
approved; but it has generally only salt. 

Beer Tendons a l’ Allemande.*—Take 
two or three pounds of the breast of beef, 
and cut it into three or four pieces of 
eqnal size; blanch them for a short time 
in boiling water ; take also half a large 
cabhage, and blanch it for a quarter of 
an hour; then beil your breast of beef 
with some stock, a bunch of parsley and 
green onions, a clove of garlic, two 
cloves, 2 bay leaf, and a little thyme and 
basil. When it has boiled an hour, put 
in the half cabbage, previously cut in 
three pieces, well squeezed and tied 
together, also feur large whole onions: 
when they are ajl nearly done, add four 


(99 ) 








BEE 


sausages, a little salt and coarse pepper ; 
then finish the stewing till there remains 
very little sauce; strain the meat and 
vegetables, and wipe off the loose fat 
with acloth. Serve the meat in a dish, 
with the cabbage and onions round it, 
and the sausages placed upon the meat; 
strain the remaining sauce through a, 
sieve, and take off the fat, then pour it 
over the meat. cSt ae ; 

Brrr Tripe a ia Provengale.*—Take 
some very thick tripe, scrape and wash 
it in several waters; then stew it with a: 
pound of grated bacon, two carrots, two 
onions, (one of which ‘should be stuck 
with cloves), bay leaves, thyme, garlic, 
whole pepper, parsley.: moisten with a 
bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of 
consommeé ; let your tripe stew for eight 
hours over a slow fire; then let it cool 
in the liquor, then heat it again, and let 
it drain, after which, cut it into fillets.: 
You must previously prepare twelve 
onions, cut in fillets, and fried in oil, 
with a little garlic and chopped parsley; 
then boil your tripe. Now itis cutinto . 
fillets, with the tried onions, and half. - 
the oil in which theywere fried, and a 
little of the liquor in which your tripe 
was first dressed. « Serve the tripe as hot 
as possible, garnishing it all over with 
bread, first dipped in oil, salt and pepper, 
and then dried upon.a gridiron. 

Beer Toasted Italian Pashion.—Take 
some steaks, and: hack them; then 
sprinkle them with-rose vinegar, and 
elder vinegar, season them with salt, 
pepper, and coriander. seed; then lay 
them one upon another in a dish for an 
hour, and broil them on a gridiren, or 
toast them before the fire, and serve 
them in their own gravy, or their own 
gravy and juice of an orange, boiled 
together. 

Beer Tripe. a la Fricassée.—Let your. 
tripe be very white, cut it into slips, put 
it into some boiled gravy, with a little 
cream and a bit of butter mixed with - 
fiour ; stir it till the butter is melted ; 
add a little white wine, lemon-peel- 


‘grated, chopped parsley,pepper and salt, 


pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice 3 
shake all together ; stew it a little. 
Beer Tripe a la Milanaise.*—Cut your 
tripe into fillets, and dress it in the same 
manner as for beef tripe d@ la Provencale ; 
then instead of finishing with the onions 
fried in oil, your tripe must be rednced, 


and then puta layeref it intoa deepdishb, 


the bottom of which must be previously 
lined with erovtons, then on the tripe put 
a layer of grated parmesan cheese, then. 
bread, then tripe, and soon till your dish 
is filled; let the whole brown to the 
bottom, and then serve. » 








BER 


BEER (/o Sweeten).—To a kilderkin 
of beer, throw in at the bung a quart of 
oatmeal, lay the bung on loose for two or 
three days, then stop it down close, and 
let it stand a month. Some throw in a 
piece of chalk the size of a turkey’s egg ; 
and when it has done working, stop it 
close for a month, then tap it. 

BEEST Custards.—Put a pint of beest 
over the fire, with a little cinnamon or 
three bay leaves, till boiling hot. Pour 
it by degrees on a spoonful of flour, and 
the same of thick cream ready mixed 
up. Stir all exceedingly well together ; 
sweeten to the palate, and bake it either 
in tins or cups. ! 

BEET BRoot.*—May be either baked or 
boiled ; it will take from an hour and a 
half to three hours, according to the size 
of the root, to cook properly. _ 

Beet Root Fricassée.*—Put it ina stew- 
pan with a little butter, shred parsley, 
scallions, garlic, flour, vinegar, salt and 
pepper; boil a quarter of an hour, and 
serve with white sauce. 

Beret Root Pickled.—Boil the roots 
tender, peel, and cut them in what shape 
you please. Put them into a jar, and 
pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, 
pepper, ginger, and sliced horse-radish. 
You may add capsicums and cayenne. 

Bret Root Preserved.*—The roots 
should be peeled and cut in thick slices, 
and placed in a pan under hot ashes for 
about five or six minutes, before you put 
them into a brine made of salt and water, 
and a quart of vinegar. 

Beret Roet Stewed.—Boil them tender 
with the skin on; slice it into a stewpan, 
with a little broth, some small onions, 
and a spoonful of vinegar: simmer til! 
the gravy is tinged with the colour; take 
off the skin just before you serve. 

BENJAMIN( Oi/ of). Beat six ounces 
of benjamin into powder, put it into oil of 
tartar and rose-water, of each a pound. 
Then distil in an alembic, and put it by 
for use. 

BENTON Sauce.—Grate or scrape 
very fine, some horse-radish, a little made 
mustard, some pounded white sugar, and 
four large spoonsful of vinegar. Serve 
cold, with roast beef, hot or cold. 

Benton Tea-cakes.—Rub into a pound 
of flour, six ounces of butter, and three 
spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste 
with new milk: make into biscuits, and 
prick them with a clean fork. 

BERGAMOT Drops.—Mix the juice 
of four or five lemons, and some sifted 
sugar, with a wooden spoon ; add to this 
twenty crops of essence of bergamot ; 
mix it well in, and having stirred it 
over the fire three or four minutes, 
drop it about the size of a sixpence on 


( 60 ) 


BIR 


wpiting paper, and let them stand till 
CO. e +o a ¢ ' 4 oe 
Bereamot /Vafers.— Squeeze six le- 
mons into a basin, and mix some sifted 
sugar, essence of bergamot, and the 
white of an egg, with the juice; beat 
them together till very white; if it be- 
comes too thick, add the juice of another 
lemon ; spread your paste, and dry them 
as barberry wafers. 
Bereamor /Vater.—To the rinds of 
three bergamots, put a gallon of proof 
spirit, and two quarts of water; draw off 
one gallon by the dain marie, and sweeten 
with sugar. ee Ts 
Bereamor Vater.—Take three gills 
of syrup, the juice of six lemons, and 
when diluted sufficiently with water, add 
a tea-spoonful of essence of hergamot. 
Strain it through a fine sieve for use. _ 
Bereamot Water Ice.—Stir together 
the juice of three lemons, two gills of 
syrup, halfa pint of water, and half a 
tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain 
and freeze it. 
RETONY, Conserve of.—Take a pound 
of betony, three pounds of loaf sugar, 
beat them in a stone mortar; boil the 
sugar with two quarts of betony water to 
the thickness of a syrup, then mix them 
together by little and little, over a gen- 
tle fire, make it into a conserve, 
keep it in glasses. ’ ph ele 
Betony Flower /Vater.—Take betony 
flowers, sprinkle them with white wine 
or water, let them infuse for two days, 
then distil them in a Jazz marie. ¥y 
Biispoovet Fritters.—Break five eggs 
into two handfuls of flour, work them to- 
gether with some milk, th 
salt and work it again; when well made 


put in a tea-spoonful ef powdered cinna-. 


mon, the same of grated lemon-peel, and 
half an ounce of candied citron cut ver 

small: puton a stewpan, rub it over with 
butter, and put in the paste; stew it 


gently over a stove, taking care that it 


does not stick to the pan. When suff- 
ciently done, lay it in a dish, set on a 
stewpan with a large quantity of lard; 
when it boils, cut out the paste in pieces 
the size of a finger, cut it across at each 
end, dip each into the lard and fry them, 
but not too much, as they will rise too 
high. Sift sugar on a dish, lay in the 
fritters, sift over more sugar, and serve. 
Bincn /Vine.—The season for procur- 
ing the liquor from the birch-trees is in 
the beginning of March, while the sap is 
rising, and before the leaves shoot out; 
for when the sap is come forward and the 
leaves appear, the juice, by being lon 
digested in the bark, grows thick an 


coloured, which before was white and 


clear. me 


en put in some. 


gtie!) et saa 





BIS 


The method of procuring the juice is 
by boring holes in the body of the trees, 
and putting in fossets, which are com- 
monly made of the branches of elder, the 
ade being taken out. You may, without 

urting the tree, if large, tap it in several 
places, four or five ata time, and by that 
means save from a good rnany trees seve- 
ral gallons every day; if you have not 
enough in one day, the bottles in which 
it drops must be corked close, and rosin- 
ed or waxed; however, make use of it as 
s00N as you can. . 

Take the sap and boil it as long as any 
scum rises, skimming it all the time ; to 
every gallon of liquor put four pounds of 
good sugar, the thin peel of a lemon, boil 
it afterwards half an hour, skimming it 
very well, pour it into @ clean tub, and 
when it is almost cold, set it to work with 
yeast spread upon a toast; let it stand five 
or six days, stirring it often; then take 
such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a 
large match dipped in brimstone, and 
throw it into the cask, stop it close till 
the match is extinguished, tun your 
wine, lay the bung on light till you find 
it has dene working; stop it close and 
keep it three months, then bottle it off. 

Birps Potted, how to preserve when 
they begin ta grow bad.—W hen birds have 
come a great way they often smell so bad 
that they can scarcely be borne from the 
rankness of the butter, by managing 
them in the following manner they may 
be made as good as ever. Set a large 
saucepan of clean water on the fire; 
when it boils take off the butter at the 
top, then take the fowls out one by one, 
throw them into that saucepan of water 
half a minute, whip it out, and dryit ina 
cloth inside and out; continue till they 
are all (lone, scald the pot clean; when 
the birds are quite cold, season them 
with mace, pepper and salt, according to 
faste, put them down close in a pot, and 
poor clarified butter over them. 

Bisuop (Essence of) or Tincture of 
Allspice.—Steep three ounces (apothe- 
cary’s weight) of bruised allspice in a 
quart of brandy, for a fortnight, occa- 
sionally shaking it up, then pour off the 
clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled 
wine, potted meats, &c. &c. 

Bisgus.—A bisque is a soupinragoft, 


which is made either of quails, capons, 


pullets, or pigeons, &c. 
Bisove.* — Take fifty cray-fish and 
wash them in eight or ten waters; and 
put them into a stewpan with some salt, 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a 
quarter of a pound of butter; over a 
quick fire; and keep constantly stirring 
them with a spoon fora quarter of an 


hour. When your cray-fish are done, let: 


( 61 ) 


B1S 


them drain, then take out the meat and 
pound it in a mortar, then put some rice 
into boiling water, and let it boil for a 
quarter of an hour, after which let it 
drain, and then pound it in the mortar 
with the meat ofthe cray-fish; when the 
whole is well pounded, put it ina stewpan 
with a little stock previously strained 
through a sieve; when this purée is 
done add to it a little more stock, taking 
care that it is neither too thick nor too 
clear. After you have prepared your 
cray-fish pound the shells, aud when they 
are well pounded, add to them some 
gravy or the butter in which the cray-fish 
were boiled, pass this purée through a 
sieve, and after you have strained it, put 
itinto a stewpan over a moderate fire, 
you must be careful not to let either of 
your purées boil. When the second purée 
is finished, and you are ready to serve, 
put some crowtons in a tureen and pour 
over them some boiling stock, then pour 
in your first purée, then upon this pour 
your purée made of the pounded shells, 
which being of a red colour will give a 
nice tinge to the whole. 

Bisgue.—Take fifty cray-fish, well 
wash them and pick out the meat 3 pound 
it and then put it in a stewpan with six 
ounces of butter, some salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, and a piece of the crumb of new 
bread three times the size of an egg 3 put 
the whole on a quick fire, and let them 
cook for half an hour; then strain the 
whole through a sieve, and when strain- 
ed put it again into a stewpan over a 
gentle fire, taking care not to let it boil 
and that your purée is not too thick 5 then 
Serve with bread, the same as in the pre- 
ceding receipt. 

Bisgue.—Take what fish you please, 
wash and clean it, then marinate it for 
an hour in white wine vinegar, a handful 
of salt, whole spice, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some whole onions, and the peel 
of a Jemon grated. Nearly cover the 
whole of your fish with these ingredients, 
and when it is marinated in them for an 
hour, put it with the ingredients into a 
saucepan, and when it is about half boiled, 
add some boiling water to it, this will 
make the fish very firm. Then fry the 
remainder of your fish, make a rich sauce 
with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, .ca- 
pers, a bunch of sweet herbs, two ancho- 
vies, two onions, stuck with cloves, the 
yolks of two eggs, the juice of a lemon, 
nutmeg grated; andsome scraped horse- 
radish 5 mix all these together with two 
pounds of butter, and Jet it be very thick; 
dish your fish, and pour over it the sauce. 
Garnish your fried fish with parsley, 
horse-radish and sliced lemon, serve 
it ccnp 





BIS 


Biscurrs.—Weigh eight eggs, an equal 
weight of sugar, and the weight of tour 
in flour; beat up the yolks of five, and 
put them in an earthen vessel with some 
rasped lemon-peel and the sugar, beat 
them together for a long time, then add 
the whites of eleven eggs also well beaten, 
then mix in the flour by degrees, pour 
this into paper cases of whatever form 
and size you please; strew powder sugar 
over them, and bake in a cool oven. -. 

Biscuirs.—Lay the rind ofa lemon in 
boiling water, till it be tender; take 
half a pound of sweet aimonds, and 
blanch them in cold water, and two 
ounces of gum-dragon, which soak in fair 
water; then pound the almonds, putting 
in as you pound, the whites of two eggs 
beaten hollow; pound the lemon in a 
store mortar by itself, and put the gum 
and the lemon into thealmonds, and mix 
them well together; then beat a pound 
of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards 
add two pounds more of fine sugar, 
stirring it with a spoon, then roll it up 
in little rolis, and lay them upon white 
papers, and set them in the oven. 

Biscurrs.—Make a pound of flour, the 
yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very 
stiff paste; beat it well, knead till quite 
smooth, roll very thin and cut inte bis- 
cuits, prick and bake in a slow oven till 
dry and crisp. 

Biscuit Bread,—Dry fine flour and 
_powder sugar, of each half a pound, 
thoroughly: beat up four very fresh eggs 
for ten minutes, then add the sugar, beat 
them ten minutes longer, put the flour, 
_and continue beating ten minutes more. 
Butter your baking-plates and bake. 
Caraway or aniseed may be added, if you 
please. 

BISCOTTE de Bruxelies.* — Take 
two quarterns of fine fleur, and divide it 
as in making the drzoche; take rather 
more than a quarter of the flour to make 
the leaven, put in a little more yeast, and 
keep the leaven moist; put to the other 
portion of flour halfan ounce of salt, a 
little water, an ounce of sugar, a quarter 
of a pound of butter and six eggs: wet 
the paste with cream, work it well five 
or six times, mix in the leaven, knead 
it twice more, and then put it aside in 
a floured cloth to rise. In four hours 
take it out and divide it into three parts, 
work each part up and make them into 
the form of sponge-cakes, put them on a 
large baking-tin, and let them stand for 
half an hour to rise, dorez them with 
milk, and bake them; when done take 
them from the oven, but do not remove 
them from the tin. The next day cut 
each cake into slices, lay them in a. 


( 62 ) 


BIS 


gentle oven to dry; when very yellow 
they are sufficiently done. These discoties 
are generally sent up with coffee cream. 

Biscurts en Caisses.*—Prepare your 
mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, 
and fill some little round or square cases 
with it. Then with the rolling pin crush 
some fine sugar, but not to a powder, 
and strew it over your biscuits, which 
place on a copper plate, and when the 
sugar begins to disselve put them in a 
gentle oven, at the movth of which put 
a shovel full of burning coals to cris- 
tallize the sugar ; and when that assumes 
the appearance of little pearls, remove 
the coals and close the oven. These 
biscuits will require from twenty to 
twenty-five minutes baking. 

Biscurr Cake.—One pound of flour, 
five eggs well beaten and strained, eight 
ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange- 
flower-water, beat the whole thoroughly 
and bake it for one hour. 

Biscuits en Capsule.*—Put half a 
pound of fine sugar into an earthen pan, 
and pour over it the yolks of twelve 
eggs; put the whites into a preserving 
pan, and whisk them for half an hour; 
in the meantime the sugar and yolks of 
eggs must be stirred with a wooden 
spoon, and pour them on the whites; 
stir them gently, add six ounces of fine 
flour and two of powder sugar sifted, and 
the grated rind ofa lemon. Mix it all well 
together, but with great care, lest the 
snow of the whites should fall. With 
this fill some small buttered moulds, or 
paper cases, and bake them in a quick 
oven to a deep yellow, first sprinkling 
them with sugar. If they are in moulds, 
turn them out when baked; but they 
may remain in the pzper cases, which 
need not be buttered. ; 

Biscurts (St. Cloud.)*—Sift two ounces 
of rice-flour through a tammy into an 
earthen pan, with half a pound of powder 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a little 
green lemon grated; beat them up to- 
gether for a quarter of an hour: whisk 
the whites of eight eggs to a froth and 
mix them with the yolks. Put this into 
buttered moulds or paper cases, and bake 
in a moderate oven. When done take 
them from the mould while hot, and ice 
them in the fellowing manner: beat up 
half the white of an egg and two spoons- 
ful of powder sugar with a wooden spoon, 
add occasionally a few drops of lemon 
juice; when it becomes quite white lay 
it over the biscuits; and place them in 
the oven a minute to dry. 

Biscurrs (Drop).—Pound and sift a 
pound of fine sugar, take the yolks of 
seven and the whites of ten eggs and beat 
well separately for an hour. Dry and 





BIS 


sift a pound of fine flour, and when cold 

mix it with the eggs and sugar, beat all 

together for a quarter of an hour, drop 

nie paper, sift sugar over, and bake 
em. 

Biscurrs Drops—Beat a pound of 
Sugar, the yolks of four, and whites of 
two eggs, with alittle white wine, then 
put ina pound of flour, and a few seeds, 
mix all well together. Butter a paper, 
lay your batter on in spoonfuls, ice them 
with fine sugar, and set them in a genule 
oven. mn 

Biscuits (Hard).*¥—Warm two ounces 
of hutter in as much skimmed milk as 
wiil make a pound of flour into a very 
suff paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, 
and work it very smooth. Roil it very 
thin, and cut into biscuits, prick and 
bake for about six minutes. 

Biscurrs (Jced).—Beat up the whites 
of eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with 
a pound of fine powdered sugar, for two 
hours. Have ready fourteen ounces of 
well-dried sifted flour; when the oven is 
ready and your plates buttered, mix the 
flour as quick as possible with the eggs, 
&c., and Jay the biscuits on the plates; 
you may add a little muskand ambergris. 
Bake ina quick oven. 

Biscurr Ice Cream.—Break six eggs 
into a stewpan, and beat them with a 
wooden spoon; add a pint of cream, the 
peel of a lemon, two gilis of syrup, anda 
little spice ; boil it till it begins to thicken, 
stirring constantly; crumble some Na- 
ples and ratafia biscuits into it, and pass 
the whole through a sieve, and put it 
into the mould, which place in ice as 
directed. (See Ice.) 

Biscurr iced, & la Royale.*—Make a 
Savoy biscuit of nine eggs, three quarters 
of a pound of sugar, and five ounces of 
potatoe-flour, with the addition of a lit- 
tle pulverised iris and orange-flower ; 
bake it in an octagon mould, and let it 
cool. Make an icing with ten ounces of 
sugar, and one and a half whites of eggs ; 
mix them together with a wooden or 
silver spoon, putting in a few drops of 
lenon-juice occasionally; when very 
white, divide it into two equal parts, to 
one of which adda little carmine to make 
itof a delicate rose-colour; with these 
two icings, glaze, alternately, each angle 
of the biscuit very carefully ; keep it 
thin and even ; smooth it with the blade 
of a knife. 

Biscurr &@ VItalienne.*—Bake a bis- 
cuit, made like Jced béscuit, in a plain, 
round mould; cut it across, in slices an 
inch thick ; pour on each slice @ spoonful 
of true maraschino, and when they have 
imbibed this, place them in their proper 
form, and mask the whole, either. with 


( 63 ) 


BIS 


white of egg and sugar, as biscuit with 
sweetmeats, or with apricot marmalade, 
on which strew pounded macaroons. 
_Biscurrs, Ltalian Water.—Whisk up 
six eggs, and an equal weight of powder- 
sugar, for half an hour. ‘Take six more 
eggs and their weight of flour, and mix all 
together, and lay this mixture on paper, 
in cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and 
about two inches diameter; lay them 
quite flat, and do not let them touch. 
The oven should be hot; five minutes 
willbake them, When cod, wet the un- 
der side of the paper, and they will then 
remove easily. 
_ Biscurrs, Jessamine. — The Spanish 
Jessamine is the best, but if not to be pro- 
cured, take English jessamine flowers, 
clean picked from the stalk; beat them 
well in a marble mortar, and put tothena 
the whites of eggs and powdered sugar, 
and lay sugar under them ina dish, or 
on papers; cover them with sugar, and 
bake them in a gentle oven. 
_ Biscurrs, Judges. — Break six eggs 
into a basin, and whisk them well for five 
minutes, add half a pound of powder- 
sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes 
longer; put some carraway-seeds and 
half a pound of dry sifted flour; mix 
them all together with a wooden spoon. 
Drop them on paper about the size of a 
crown-piece, and thick in the middle; 
sift sugar over, and bake them in a brick 
tell. Take them off the paper while 
hot. ; 

Biscuits, King’s.—Put half a pound 
of butter into a basin, and work it about 
well with a wooden spcon; break six eggs 
and whisk them well, add half a pound 
of powder-sugar, and whisk ten minutes 
longer, and then mix them with the but- 
ter; stir in six ounees of currants, and 
the same of dried flour. When all is well 
mixed, drop it, the size of a shilling, on 
paper, and bake in aquick oven. Take 
them off while hot. 

Biscuits (large) to cut in Pieces.*— 
Break ten eggs, put the whites in one, 
and the yolks in another vessel; add to 
the latter, a pound of powder-sugar, a 
little lemon-peel, crange-flowers, and 
salt, mix these together well; whip the 
whites quite firm, and then put to them 
the yolks, lightly, sift over them three 
quarters of a pound of dried flour, stir- 
ring all together carefully. Put this pre- 
paration into paper cases, glaze and bake 
them in a sjow oven for an kour. When 
cold cut them into such forms as you may 
think proper, and ice them. You may 
vary the flavour and colour of these bis 
cuits as you please, by mixing any co- 
louring material with the icing, and by 
re Dae ane fruit which they should be 


oi 





BIS 


flavoured with, on the sugar, before it is 
erushed and mixed with the egg. 

Biscuits (light).*— Take ten eggs, 
put the yolks of five in a pan with a few 
crisped orange-flowers, the peel of a 
green lemon, both shred fine, and three 
2 gue of a pound of fine sugar; beat 
the whole together till the sugar is dis- 
solved and well mixed with the eggs. 
Beat the ten whites to a froth, and add 
to the sugar, stir in lightly, and by de- 
grees, six ounces of flour, put them into 
buttered moulds, powdering them with 
fine sugar, and bake them ijn a moderate 
oven. 

Biscuits, Manqués.* — Put into an 
earthen pan half a pound of powder- 
sugar, three quarters of a pound ef flour, 
a quarter of a pound of butter, the same 
of. pounded almonds, a little salt, and 
some orange-flower water, six yolks, and 
two whole eggs; beat up these ingre- 
dients well; whip the six whites, and 
mix them gradually with the above pre- 
paration; make a paper case, butter and 
‘pour in it your biscuit paste and bake it. 
Meanwhile cut some almonds into either 
dice or slips, mix them with some pow- 
der-sugar and white of egg; when the 
biscuit mangués is about three parts 
done, durez and cover it with this latter 
mixture; then replace itin the oven and 
finish baking. As soon as it is done, 
take it out and ent it iato whatever forms 
your fancy may dictate. 

Biscuits, marbled.* —Make twenty- 
four eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, and 
three quarters of a pound of dried and 
sifted flour, into a biscuit paste, as di- 
rected for Spoon Biscuits; then beat four 
ounces of dissolved chocolate in an 
earthen pan, and add to it a third of the 
paste; when itis wel! mixed, divide it in 
half, and to one half mix a quarter of the 
hiscuit-paste, which will tinge that por- 
tion a light chocolate colour. After this, 
mix together some vegetable red and in- 
fusion of saffron to colour half the re- 
maining paste orange; then divide that 
again, and mix the last quarter with half 
the orange-colour, thus your paste will 
be coloured with two shades of chocolate 
and two of orange. 

Make two paper cases, each eight 
inches square and three high, pour into 
one of these a large spoonful of the choco- 
Jate-paste, and when it has spread over 
the bottom of the case, pour in one of the 
orange-coloured, on which another of 
the chocolate, and so on, alternately, 
until the case is half full; then spriukle it 
with flour, and put it into a slow oven 
for three quarters of an hour. Put the 
remainder of your biscuit-paste (both 
colours) into a pan and stir them together 


(64 ) 


BIS 


with a spoon till the whole is veined, or 
clouded with the two colours; pour it 
into the other case, sprinkle it with flour, 
and bake like the former; when quite 
cold, cut them into slices about two 
inches thick, half of which should be 
broken, and the other half cut in pieces 
of an equal size, lay them on a baking- 
plate, and dry them inthe oven. These 
are generally used to make the rocks in 
ornamental pastry, and may be coloured 
with the usual materials, according to 
your fancy. . 

Biscurrs, Murchpane.—Beat a pound 
of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, 
moisten them with water, then put them 
and a paund of powder-sugar into asauce- 
pan, over aclear but not fierce charcoal 
fire, stirring constantly, till the paste 
Jeaves adhere together; put it on a 
floured slab, and work it well with your 
hands for some time, then roll small 
pieces of it about three inches long and 
halfthe thickness of your little finger, 
join the ends of each and make them into 
round rings, lay them on asieve in a dry 
warm place for two or three days. When 
wanted, mix some powder-sugar with 
the whites of eight eggs, and beat them 
with a wooden spoon in each hand; add 
a cup of orange-flower water. Put your 
rings into thisicing, ard cover them 
completely ; lay them on a sheet of paper 
and bake.in a slow oven until the icing 
sets and they begin to changecolour. Do 
not remove them fromthe paper til cold. 

Biscuits, Millefruit. — Take pre- 
served orange and lemon-peel, a quarter 
of a pound ofeach, six ounces cf angelica, 
the same of sweet, and one ounce of bitter 
almonds; cut all the above ingredients 
into pieces half an inch long anda quar- 
ter wide. Make an icing with white of 
eggs, Sugar, and orange-flower water; 
put the almonds, &c. into this, and -hav- 
ing paper on your baking-tin, lay the 
cakes on it, of whatever size you please ; 
then with a hair pencil touch them here 
and there with a little cochineal. Bake 
them, but notin toohotanoven. | 

Biscuits, Monkey.—Take the weight 
of six eggs in powder-sugar, and mix it 
with the yolks and a little pounded cin- 
namon 3 whisk the whites to a firm froth, 
and stir them lightly into the yolks; add 
four whole eggs, and their weight of 
dry sifted flour, mix them well together ; 
take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it 
in about the size of a half-crown piece on 
paper, join two together with the spoon, - 
and when your paper is full, sprinkle 
powder-sugar over and bake them ; a few 
minutes will do them. Remove them 
from the paper while hot and put the two 
undersides together. 








B1Ss . ( 65 ) BIS 


Biscuits (Muscovy).* — Take green 
lemon-peel, orange-flower marmalade, 
and apricot marmalade, of each four 
drachms; four whites of eggs, and three 
ounces of powder-sugar; Whip the 
whites to asnow, pound the marmalades 
and lemon-peel' to a paste, and pass it 
through a sieve, then add the eggs and 
sugar, mixing them well together, put 
them in paper cases (buttered) and bake 
them. When sufficiently done, glaze 
them with powder-sugar and white of 
egg, and decorate them with noxpareils. 

Biscuits ( Naples).*—Put three quar- 
ters of a pound of fine flour to a pound of 
fine sifted sugar; sift both together three 
times, then add six eggs beaten well, and 
a spoonful of rose-water; when the oven 
is nearly hot, bake them, but not too 
wet. 

Biscurts, Niauffes.*—Make some puff 
paste, roll it out two or three times more 
than usual, then spread it in two square 
layers, about the thickness of a crown- 
piece, put one of them on a baking- plate; 
mix with some cream pétissiére, a hand- 
ful of pistachios pounded, two bitter, 
and a handful of sweet almonds, blanched 
and pounded, a little green of spinach, 
powder-sugar, orange-flower water, and 
two eggs; spread this equally over the 
puff-paste for an inch thick; cover it with 
the other square of paste; durez and prick 
it, and mark it in divisions of three 
inches long, by one anda half wide; strew 
over powder-sugar, orange-flowers pra- 
linée, and sweet almonds cut in slips; 
bake them in a moderate oven, and when 
done divide them according to the marks. 
Trim and serve themas an entremets. 

Biscuit, the Nuns.—Take the whites 
of twelve eggs, and beat them to a froth ; 
a pound of almonds, blanch them, and 
beat {them with the froth of the whites 
of eggs, as it rises; then take the yolks, 
and two pounds of fine sugar and beat 
them well together, then mix the al- 
monds with the sugar and eggs; then 
add halfa pound of flour, with the peel 
of four lemons grated, and some citron 
shred small; put the composition in 
littke cake-pans, and bake them in a 
quick oven, and when they are coloured, 
turn them en tins to harden the bot- 
toms: but before you set them in the 
oven again, sift on them some double 
refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, 
and fill them half way. 

Biscuir & la Paristenne.*—Make a 
biscuit as directed for that Iced a@ la 
Royale, but bake itin a plain mould of 
seven inches diameter; when cold, cut 
it about an inch from the edge all round, 
to the depth of three inches; take away 
the top anda great part of the crumb;. 


then having prepared the icing (as 
therein mentioned) colour it green with 


spinach juice ; mask the whole surface 


of your biscuit with this, and place it in 
the oven a minute to dry. When wanted 


for table, fill the interior of the biscuit 
with fromage bavarois of pistachios, on. 


which place a very white sultune. 
.This kind of biscuit may be filled with 


any other fromage bovurets, or a whipped: 


cream, if you like it better. The colour 
of the icing may also be changed accord« 
ing to your fancy. 

Biscurr Paste.*—Break a qnarter of 
a hundred of eggs, separate the yolks 
and whites; to the former put two 
pounds of pounded and sifted sugar. 
and add vanilla, or any other aromatic 
ingredient you please; beat them witha 
wooden spoon, whisk the whites until 
pretty firm, and then put them together; 
mix in a pound and a half of meal by 
degrees. Butter moulds, and put in 
your paste; sprinkle sugar over, and 
bake in a cool oven. 

Biscurts of Preserved Fruits, or Sweeé- 
meats.—Take dried preserved fruit, such 
as apricots, grapes, plums, oranges, and a 
little orange flower marmalade, pound 
them together, and sift in asieve; mix 


'the yolks of new laid eggs, and fine 


powder sugar therewith, till it comes to 
a paste, but not too liquid, bake upon 
paper in a moderate oven. 

Biscuits (Princess Amelia).*— Put 
the whites of twelve eggs into an earthen 
pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to them eight ounces of double re- 
fined sugar, ponnded and sifted; havirig 
mixed them, put in three ounces of flour, 
and three of powder sugar sifted, the grat- 
ed rind ef one ortwo lemons and halfa cof- 
fee cup of orange flower water, stir them 
well with a wooden spoon, but take care 
not tospoil the snow: drop them on paper 
of a larger size than the sweet biscuits, 
and bake them to a clear brown in @ 
moderate oven. Take them from the 
paper while hot. 

Biscvir Pudding.—Pour a pint of 
boiling milk over three Naples biscuits 
grated ; cover it close; when cold add 
the yolks of four eggs, two whites, nut- 
meg, a little brandy, half a spoonful of 
flour, and some sugar. Boil it an hour 
in a basin. 

Biscuits, the Queen’s.—Take a pound 
and a half of flour,a pound and a half of 
fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, and 
the yelks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- 
ander seeds beaten small at discretion 3 
mix these well together, and make them 
into a soft paste, adda little soft yeast or 
not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts 
about two inches broad, and four inches 


BISs 


Jong, set them ina moderate oven, and 
when they begin to turn brown, take 
them out, and lay them on paper, in a 
dry place. , 
» Biscuits, Robe de Chambre.— Boil 
some stigar over a brisk charcoal fire to 
caramel, into this throw blanched sweet 
almonds, stir them with a wooden spoon 
till covered with sugar, then lay them 
on a sieve to dry; take care to separate 
those which stick together. Make an 
icing with sugar, whites of eggs, and a 
little orange-flower water; put the al- 
monds into this, cover them well with it, 
and place them on sheets of paper; do 
not let them touch; put them into a 
moderate oven. Letthem be cold before 
you remove them from the paper. 

Biscurrs (Savoy).* —Whip twelve 
whites of eggs toa snow; beat the yolks 
with a pound and a quarter of powder- 
sugar, mix them together, with three 
quarters of a pound of flour and the 
grated rind of a lemon, into a paste, rub 
your mould with melted butter, and 
bake it. 

Biscuits (Savoy), Cold.*—Takea little 
more than ha!f a pound of very fine dry 
flour, one pound of very dry pounded 
sugar, and fourteen eggs; rasp the peel 
of two lemons or oranges onthe sugar, 
which put to the yolks of the eggs, and 
work them together with two new wooden 
spoons. Whip the whites in a separate 
vessel, (with a small pinch of calcined 
alum to prevent their turning), when 
very firm, take half to mix with the 
yolks, then mix the whole, and sift the 
flour over: mix all together gently with 
awhip. Prepare a mould as above, and 
put the biscuit in. a litde at a time, to 
prevent the bladders at the top; put 
some ashes on a baking dish, and put 
the mould over this in a moderate oven. 
One hour is sufficient. ‘The same paste 
may be put into paper cases. Throw 
crushed sugar over before baking. 

Biscurirs (Savoy), with Filberts.*— 
Blanch, wash, and dry your filbérts, and 
then burn or roast them till ofa fine yel- 
low tinge. When cold, pound and mix 
them the same as the almonds. 

Finish the biscuits as before-men- 
tioned. Smaller Savoy biscuits are made 
in a similar manner, 

If you should not be able to procure 
potatoe-flour, wheat flour may be used, 


taking care to dry it perfectly; a larger | 


quantity of the latter will then be requi- 
site; two pounds and a quarter will be 
equal ta one and three quarters of the 
potatoe-flour. 

- Buscurrs (Savoy), Hot.—Break a dozen 
eggs into a vessel over another contain- 
ing water nearly boiling; beat them up 


( 66 ) 


BIS 


in it with a pound of fine sifted sugar. 
When the eggs are no longer soft, put 
three-quarters of a pound of flour into a 
silk sieve; mix the flour well with the 
eggs, by shaking the sieve, then add two 
spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub 
a mould over with butter, powder some 
sugar over, and pour in your paste; 
sprinkle more sugar over, and bake ina 
moderate oven for three-quarters of an 


hour. rk 
Biscuits (Savoy), Large.* — Take 


fifty-six eggs, four pounds of sugar, the - 


zesies of four oranges, a pound and three- 
quarters of potatoe-flour sifted ; and 
make your biscuit as follows: grate the 
zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, 
and as soon as it becomes coloured, scrape 
it off, and grate again until all the zeste 
is done, then dry the sugar perfectly, 
crush and sift it. 4 ‘i 
Break your eggs one by one, (taking 
care that all are perfectly fresh); put 
the yolks and whites into separate ves- 
sels; mix half your sugar with the for- 
mer, stirring it in with a spatula until 
perfectly smooth, then add the remain- 
der, and work it well for twenty minutes. 
Whip the whites till quite firm, putting 
in a small quantity of pounded alum; 
when sufficiently whipped, which may 
be known by little points rising when the 
whisk is taken out; mix a little with the 
yolks; still, however, keeping the whites 
stirring ; then pour the yolks on them 
very gently, mixing them together as 
you pour, with the whisk: sift over the 
whole a pound of potatoe-flour, stirring 
the mixture all the time; when ready 
to put into the mould, your paste should 
be very smooth, and somewhat of the 
consistence of treacle. Butter the mould, 
and put in a few spoonsful of your paste 
at first, to prevent any globules of air 
appearing on the top when baked; pour 
in the remainder carefully. Cover 2 
baking-plate with hot ashes, lay the 
mould in the midst of them, and place 
it ina moderate oven; keep it open tor 
an hour, that the biscuit may be watehed, 
and ifit takes colour too quickly, cover 
it with paper. In three hours time take 
it from the oven, and if it be of a good 
colour, and firm, turn it ona baking-tin, 
tie round it a band of double paper, and 
replace it in the oven for a quarter of an 
hour to dry. ; 4 
Inip, with Almonds.* —The ingre- 
dients for this biscuit are the same as 
above, with the addition of four eggs, 
and half a pound of bitter almonds: 


| blanch the almonds, then wash, drain, 


and dry them in a napkin; pound them 
with whites of eggs in the usual way, to 
a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and 


. 








BIS ( 67) BIS 


then mix it with the additional eggs 5 
add this to the sugar and yolks, and pro- 
ceed as above. ery, 
- Biscurr Sea,* @ la Francaise.— Mix 
half a pound of. flour with the grated 
rind of a lemon, four eggs, anda little 
salt; stir them with a wooden spoon ; 
lay this preparation in two large cases, 
dorez and bake them in a tolerably bot 
oven. When done, take them out of the 
cases whilst hot, and cut them in pieces 
the size of a little finger; put them 
again into the oven to dry, and colour 
them. ; 
Biscurts (Smai/).—Make a paste with 
a quarter of a pound of flour, three 
spoonsful of fine powder-sugar, and the 
same of marmalade; add whites of exgs 
to work it pretty soft; and make this 
paste to what shape and size you please. 
Biseurrs, Spice.—Take three pounas 
of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut in 
half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powder- 
sugar; mix them all together on your 
slab; boil three pounds of Lisbon sugar 
with some water; make the above ingre- 
dients into a paste with this, and roll it 
to the size of a large rolling-pin; lay it on 
a sheet of paper, flat it down a little with 
your hand, keeping it higher in the mid- 
dle than at the ends; put it into a very 
hot oven; when done, take it out, and 
while hot, cut it across, in slices an eighth 
of an inch thick, and dry them. 
Biscuits, Fine Sponge. — Break 
twelve eggs, separate the yolks and 
whites; to the former put three quar- 
ters of a pound of powder-sugar, sur 
them well with a wooden spoon, till it 
rises in large bladders; whisk the whites 
to a very firm froth, and then mix them 
very lightly with the yolks and sugar, 
and when incorporated, add ten ounces 
of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir them 
all together well, and pour the mixture 
into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar 
over, and bake them in a moder:te oven. 
Take them from the tins whilst hot. 
- Biscurrs (Spoon).*—Break four eggs, 
put the yolks and whites into separate 
basins; add to the former a quarter of a 
pound of powder sugar; having grated on 
it the zes¢e of a lemon, mix these together 
well with a spatula for ter minutes ; thea 
whip the whites to a froth, and put 
about halfof them tothe yolks, and when 
that is well mixed in, add the rest; sur 
it very lightly, and lay them with a spoon 
on paper, make them about three inches 
long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze 
them with powder-sugar, and piace them 
on baking tins, and, as the sugar dis- 
sdlves, and they shine, put the biscuits 
into a moderate oyen, which must be 


a 


kept open for seven or eight minutes 


then close it until your biscuits are of a 
proper colour. When cold, detach them 
from the paper with a thin knife-blade, 
and lay them by, in couples, the glazed 
sides outwards, till wanted. 

Biscuits (Sweet).*—Take half a pound 
of fine pounded sugar, and sift it through 
atammy. Put the whites of twelve eggs 
into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into 
an earthenware tureen; whip the whites 
to asnow, and then carefuliy pour on it 
the yolks and sugar; stir them gently ; 
place your pan over a chafing-dish ;, con- 
tinue whipping the whole for a full half 
hour, and then, if the drop which falls 
from the whisk lays a little while without 
spreading, take it from the fire, and 
whisk again till it is cold; then add half 
a pound of fine sifted flour, stir it in 
gently with a wooden spoon. Drop them 
on paper, sift sugar over, and bake them 
in a warm oven until of a deep yellow ; 
take them from the papers while warm ; 
bake them as soon as possible after they 
are dropt on paper. 

Biscuits, Sweetmeat.—Cut some Na- 
ples biscuits into pieces about an inch 
thick, and an inch anda half square,and 
just crisp them in theoven. Makesome 
icing with whites of eggs, sugar, and 
orange-flower water; dip One side of the 
biscuit into it ; cut some preserved lemon 
and orange-peel and angelica into small 
pieces; strew them over the biscuits, 
and dry the icing in the oven. 

Biscuit with Sweetmeats.*—Prepare 
your biscuit as @ la Parisienne, bake it 
in a plain round mould, six inches dia- 
meter, and five or six high. When 
quite cold cut it across in slices three 
quarters of an inch thick; cover each 
slice with apricot marmalade, and re- 
place them according to their original 
form. Have ready the whites of three 
eggs whipped firm, and mixed wlth a 
quarter of a pound of fine powder sugar, 
mask the biscuit with this, and strew 
crushed sugar on this; put it in aslow 
oven tocolour it. Serve it cold. 

You may strew over the icing, either 
pistachios cut in dice, currants mixed 
with sugar, and use any marmalade or 
jelly yen may think proper. 

Biscurrts ( Syringe).—Beat a pound of 
sweet almondsto a very fine paste, moise- 
ening them with white of egg,and having 
grated the rinds of six Jemons, mix them 
in two pounds and a half of powder-sugar 
with the almond-paste. Take a syringe 
mould, the bottom of which should be 
flat, anda star cut out in the centre} 
halt fill your syringe with the paste, and 
press it through, on toa well-floured slab, 
cut in pieces about three Inches in length, 





ae 


BLA ( 63 ) BLA 


lay them on three sheets of paper to pre- 
vent their burning, and bake them in a 
brisk oven. : 

Biscuits, Yoad-tn-a-Hole. — Beat a 
pound of sweet, and an ounce and a half 
of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, 
moisten with water, and mix the paste, 
which should not be too thin, with a 
pound and a quarter of Lisbon sugar. 
Lay a sheet of writing-paper on = your 
baking-plate, and wafer-paper on that ; 
lay the biscuits about the size of a half- 
crown piece; put a dried cherry inthe 
middle of each; sift sugar over and bake 
them in a moderate oven. When done, 
cut the wafer-paper round, but do not 
take it away. 

Biscuits, Yarmouth.—Pick and wash 
half a pound of currants, dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, and put 
them with halfa pound of powder-sugar, 
three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, 
and half a pound of fresh butter; mix 
them into a paste with three eggs, roll it 
out to the thickness of the eighth of an 
inch, cut them into what shapes you 
please. Bake them of a light colour ina 
hot oven. 

Buacx Cock—Is dressed in the same 
way as partridge; a small one will take 
thirty, a full grown one forty or fifty mi- 
nutes to roast. Serve with currant-jelly 
and fried bread-crumbs. Gravy and 
bread sauce. 

Buacx Puddings.—Boil a peck of grits 
for half an hour in water, then drain and 
put them inte a tub or pan; the hog 
being killed, save two quarts of the blood, 
and stir it till quite cold, when the grits 
may be mixed with it, still stirring; sea- 
son it with a large spoonful of salt, cloves, 
nutmeg, and mace, a quarter of an 
ounce of each, pounded and dried; flavour 
it with winter savory, sweet marjoram, 
thyme, and penny-royal, all chopped 
small. The next day, cut the leaf of the 
hog into dice, cleanse the entrails well, 
tie them at one end, and begin to fill 
them, putting in plenty of fat with the 
other ingredients, fill them about three 
parts full, tie the other end of the skins, 
prick and boil them gently for an hour; 
then take them out, and lay them on 
clean straw. 

Buack Pudding.—fSoak a quart of 
whole grits for twelve hours in as much 
boiling hot milk as will swell them, and 
leave half.a pint of liquid. Chop some 
pennyroyal, savory, and thyme, salt, 
pepper, and allspice pounded; mix 
them with a quart of blood, half fill the 
skins with it, and add as much of the 
leaf as will make it pretty rich; boil in 
a large kettle, pricking them as they 
swell, lest they burst. When sufficiently 


done, lay them in clean cloths till cold. 
When to be used, scald them a few mi-. 
nutes and broil them. _ SA 

Buiack Pudding, Scotch way.—Chop 
off the head of a goose, save the blood; 
stir it till cold, then mix it as above di- 
rected with grits, spice, sweet herbs, 
salt, and beef suet, chopped; take the 
skin from the neck, pull out the wind-. 
pipe and fat, fill your skins, tie them 
at both ends. _— 

Buackserry Wine.— Put full ripe 
blackberries into a large vessel with a 
cock in it, pour on as much beiling water 
as will cover them, and as soon as the 
heat will permit, bruise them well with 
the hand till all the berries are broken ; 
cover them, and in about three or four 
days, when the berries rise to the top, — 
draw off the clear part into another ves- 
sel; add to every ten quarts of the liquor 
one pound of sugar, stic it well in, and 
let it stand a week or ten days to work. 
Draw it off through ajelly-bag. Steep 
four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet 
wine for twelve hours, then boil it slowly 
till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the 
blackberry juice, boil them together, ana, 
then put all together; let it stand afew ™. 
days, and bottle. 

Buanc.—A mixture of butter, salt, 
water, and a slice of lemon; also as fol- 
lows :—Cut a pound of beef suet, and the 
same of fat bacon into dice, halfa pound 
of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and 
pepper, one or two onions, a bunch of 
parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf and 
spice. : 

LANnc.*—Take half a pound of the beef 
fat, halfa pound of bacon, a quarter of 
a pound of fresh butter, two carrots, two 
onions cut in half, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a 
lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and 
two glasses of stock, and boil the whole 
for some time, it will be then fit for use. 

Buane.*—Put one pound of grated 
bacon, one pound of fat, half a pound of 
butter, two lemons cut in slices, and the 
white taken out, two bay leaves, two 
cloves, four carrots cut into dice, four 
onions, and a very small quantity of wa- 
ter, into a saucepan, and boil the whole 
tillit is reduced. You must take care to 
keep stirring to prevent your blanc from 
catching ; when all the moisture is suck- 
ed up and the fat is melted, moisten it 
with water ; add some clarified salt, let it 
boil and skim it; it is then ready for use. 
_ Buancmance.—To one ounce of picked 
isinglass, put a pint of water, boil it till 
the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- 
namon $ put to it three quarters of a pint 
of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds; 
six bitter ones blanched and beaten, a 





ee a ee ——— ee ee ee 


SS ee 











BLA ( 69 ) 


bit of lemon-peel, sweeten it, stir it over 
the fire, let it boil, strain and let it cool, 
squeeze in the juice ofa lemon, and put 
into moulds; garnish to your fancy. 

- Blanc-mange may be coloured green by 
adding spinach-juice; red, by a bit of 
cochineal in brandy, fet it stand half an 
hour and Strain it; yellow with saffron. 
.Bianc-M ANGE, Diablotins aux Avelines.* 
~—Pound and blanch six ounces of filbert 
nuts, and beat them up with three 
glasses of scalded cream; squeeze them 
through a napkin to extract as much 
milk as possible from your almonds; then 
gradually pour it upon two large spoons- 
fulof rice flour. and beat it well toge- 
ther, taking great care not to let it be 
lumpy, adding three ounces of sugar and 
a very small quantity of salt; put it to 
turn over a moderate fire, and dry it for 
forty. minutes until it becomes quite a 
stiff thick paste; then put it on a dish 
and leave it to cool; when cold, roll it into 
strips, cut them into small pieces about 
the size ofa filbert, and as you cut them 

l] them into balls and lightly sprinkle 
them with flour. The whole being thus 
prepared, place some of them in a small 
cullender, and put the cullender into 
batter, so hot that the diablotins will 
immediately catch (this batter should 
have been standing on the stone for two 
hours), and become of a nice dark colour 
in almost an instant. Then take your 
cullender out of the batter, put your 
balls in a napkin, roll them in powdered 
sugar, and serve them on a very hot 
plate. fry the remainder of your dia- 
blotins, serving them hot and hot. 

Buanc-MAncE (Dutch).—Put a pint of 
cleared calf’s-foot jelly into a stewpan ; 
mix with it the yolks of six eggs, set it 
over a fire, and whisk till it begins to boil; 
then set the pan in cold water, and stir 
the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it 
from curdling, and when it begins to 
thicken fill the moulds. 

Buane-mMance @ la Frangaise. * — 
Blanch one pound of sweet, and a score 
of bitter almonds: drain them on a 
sieve, and afterwards dry them, by rub- 
bing them in a napkin; pound them in 
a mortar, continually moistening them 
with half a tea-spoonful of wuter at a 
time, to prevent their oiling. When 
they are pounded as fine as possible, 
take them out of the mortar, and put 
them into a pan; then with a silver 
spoon, beat up your almonds gradually, 
with five glasses of filtered water ; after 
this, spread a napkin over an oval dish, 
and put your almonds upon it; then 
gather up the corners of your napkin, 
and wring it very tight, to press out 
all the milk from the almonds ; then put 


BLA 


into this milk, twelve ounces of crystal- 
lized sugar, broken into small pieces ; 
when the sugar is dissolved, pass the 
whole through a napkin; and then add 
to it one ounce of clarified isinglass 
rather warmer than lukewarm; an 

when the whole is well incorporated 


together, pour it into your mould. Your. 


mould should be previously put into ten 
pounds of pounded ice; when your blanc- 
mange is ready to serve, (which will be 
in two hours after it has been put into 
tne mould), you must take it out of the 
mould according to the rule prescribed 
in Violet Jelly. 

Buanc-mMAance Fritters.*—Put a quar- 
ter of a pound of ground rice into a 
stewpan, mix with it two eggs, a pint of 
milk, and two ounces of sugar: let it boil 
two hours, stirring it frequently; when 
well thickened, take it off, and add a 
little grated lemon-peel, some dried 


orange-flowers, shred, and a little salt: 


the whole being wel! mixed, spread it 
upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, 
and when cold, cut it into little bits, and 
make them into balls, with your bands 
floured ; fry on lard, and when dark- 
coloured, sugar and serve, 

Buane-ManGe Fritters en Gimblettes.* 
—Prepare the paste the same as for 
Blanc-mange Diablotins aux Avelines. 
When it is cold, cut it, and form it into 
your gimblettes ; cut the pieces out from 
the middle with a paste-cutter, nearly 
two inches in diameter. Then mask 
these little rounds (which you have cut 
from the gimblettes) all over with crumb 
of bread, very finely grated ; this must be 
done with the greatest care, for fear of 
Spoiling their shape. After having 
masked them in bread-crumbs, dip them 
in four eggs beaten np; then drain them, 
and again mask them in bread-crumbs. 
In the same manner prepare the gim- 
bletles, placing them upon plates; and 
when you wish to serve, fry them of a 
nice colour; then sprinkle them all over 
with sugar, and place your litle rounds 
in the centre of a dish, and arrange your 
gimbleties round them. 

Branc-mance Fritters en, Gimblettes, 
glazed with Sugar.* —Prepare your 
gimblettes exactly the same as in the 
preceding receipt; and when you wish to 
serve them, fry them in butter as usual. 


‘Then drain them, after which, glaze 


them in caramel sugar. You may if you 
like, as you take them out of the frying- 
pan, strew them over with pistachio nuts, 
cut very small, or dried orange fiowers. 
Buance-MANGE with Fruit. — Boil an 
ounce and a half of isinglass, and when 
quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool for 
half an hour, skim, and pour it free from 


Fe 


BLA ( 70 ) 


sediment into another pan; then whisk 
with it a table-spoonful of cedrat, and 
half a pound of currant jelly, strawberry, 
or raspberry jam ; and when it begins to 
jelly, fill the moulds. 

Buanc-manae, Hot.*—Blanch a pound 
of sweet almonds, with eight bitter al- 
monds; pound them very fine, and put 
them into a stewpan; then put the same 
quantity of cream with a quarter more 
into another stewpan, and boil it with 
some sugar; and when it boils put in 
your almonds, mix them well together, 
and then pass them through a bolting 
cloth; a quarter of an hour before you 
wish to serve it, put your preparation 
over the fire; turning it the same as & 
bowilke ; reduce it, and continue turning 
until it is thick and keeps to the spoon 3 
then pour it into a silver dish, and serve. 

Buanc-MANGE, the Italian Way.—Take 
a cold capon that has been either boiled 
or roasted, take off the skin, mince the 
meat, and then pound it in a mortar 
with blanched almonds; then add some 
capon broth and grated bread, salt, rose- 
water, and sugar, previously strained 
through a sieve ; then bvil the whole till 
it is of a good consistence ; then either 
put it into a paste, or stew it. 

Buane-MANGE without either Isinglass 

or Icing.*—Prepare your almonds in the 
same manner as in the receipt for Blanc- 
mange é@ la Frangaise, but only using 
half the quantity specified in that receipt, 
and likewise leaving out the isinglass. 
Then put into a pan the whites of four 
eggs, and whip them till they begin to 
whiten, then add your blanc-manger, and 
place your pan over bot ashes, and con- 
tinue to whip your preparation until the 
egg is thoroughly mixed with the al- 
monds, and the whole begins to turn toa 
thick cream; and when it is of a proper 
consistence, pour into little cups, and 
serve it either hot or cold. 
_ When you wish to serve this entremet 
in little cups, and of any flavour you 
please, you must only make use of two- 
thirds of the quantity of almonds, named 
in the receipt for Blanc-manye a la 
Francaise. 

Banc-MANGE with preserved Orange. 
—Fill the orange with blanc-mange; 
when cold, stick in long slips of citron, 
like leaves, pour blanc-mange in a dish, 
and when cold, place the orange in the 
middle ; and garnish with dried or pre- 
served fruit. ‘ 

Blanc-mange may be put into any 
shaped moulds, and garnished and co- 
loured according to fancy. 

Buanc-MAnGE (Riband),—Put into a 
mould some white blanc-manger, about 
two inches deep, and when cold, put 


BOA 


alternately, cleared calve’s feet, red or 
Dutch blane-mange. PR ane 

BLANC-MANGE en Surprise.*—Take the 
crumb from a rasped pain a café without 
injuring the crust, which ice with pow- 
der-sugar and orange-flower water$ 
place it a minute in the oven or stove 


to dry ; fill the inside with blanc-mange, ~ 


place it in a dish, and cover it with firm 
blanc-mange, in the form of a pyramid. — 

BLOND (to clarify), for the Table.— 
Whip the whites of four eggs in a large 
pipkin, and put the blond to them; set 
the whole on the fire on a stewpan}; con- 
tinue to whip till near boiling, when it 
will have become white. Then put it in 
the stove, with fire over and under. 
When quite clear, strain it through a 
sieve. ; 

Buonp orVeal Gravy.—Put a few slices 
of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and 
lay over it some slices of lean veal; half 
cover the meat with jelly-stock ; stew it 
over a brisk fire, taking care it does not 
burn; when the broth is reduced, thrust 
a knife into the meat, that the gravy 
may run out, and then stew it more 
gently till brown, turning the meat 
frequently. When ofa dark red colour, 
moisten with hot stock, season with 
shred mushrooms, parsley and green 
onions; when it has boiled an hour, 
skim, and strain it through a tammy for 
use, to clarify. 

BOAR Baked.—Season the leg of a 
wild boar well (having taken out the 
bone), lard it with bacon, seasoned with 
pepper, ginger, and nutmegs pounded, 


or lay it in soak two days, and parboil it, - 


put it into a good thick crust; then 
strew over it some pepper, ginger, and 
nutmeg, all pounded, and some whole 
cloves, and bay leaves, slices of bacon, 
and a good quantity of butter; them 
cover with crust and bake it. fe 
Boar’s Head.—Let it be well singed, 
and rubbed with a piece of brick, to take 


off the hair; then scrape it with a knife, » 


and clean it well: this done, bone it, 
and cut out the two’ jaw-bones, and cut 
off the snout ; slit it underneath, so that 
it may stick to the skin om the top, and 
take away the brain and tongue; then 


take some salt, and rub it into all parts 


of the flesh; put the head together 
again, and wrap it up, and tie it in a 
napkin 3 then put it into a large sauces 


‘pan of hot water, with some leaf fat of a 


hog, two bay leaves, all sorts of sweet 
herbs, coriander, and aniseed, salt, nut- 
meg, and cloves, pounded, rosemary and 
an onion; when it is. half boiled, add to 
it a quart of wine, and keep it boiling for 
twelve hours. You may also boil the 


_ tongue in, the same liquor; when it is 


i 





a 








BOT 


ready, let it cool in its own liquor ; when 
cold, put it ona dish, and serve it cold, 
either whole, or in slices. 

Boar, Wild, roasted.—Lard it with 


lardons of bacon, without cutting off 
either head or feet; roast, and eat it 


with vinegar and pepper, or orange, salt 


- and pepper. 


BOCKINGS.— Mix three ounces of 
buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of 
warm milk, anda spoonful of yeast; let 
it stand before the fire about an hour, to 
rise; then mix four eggs, well beaten, 
and as much milk as will make the batter 
the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry 
them the same way. 

BOILING.—The operation of boiling 
meat, bas been too commonly treated as 
a department of the culinary art—that 
required no art atall. Hence, we may 
possibly trace in the slovenly manage- 


~ ment of the pot, the well-known adage, 


that a leg of mutton boiled, is a leg of 
mutton spoiled ; whilst with due defer- 
ence to good old sayings, whick generally 
have originated in truth and experience, 
we are to be numbered among those who 
think a leg of mutton boiled, one of the 
most delectable pJain dishes that belong 
to the old English school of unsophisti- 
cated cookery, But the joint must be 
judiciously chosen, sufficiently kept, and 
skilfully cocked—for simple as it may 
appear, there is no small skill required 
in the management of the arcana of the 
ot. 

Pelard water is improper for boiling meat 
and where soft water is not to be pro- 
cured, the cook cannot. be expected to do 
justice to her reputation, even with the 
greatest attentien to her business. So 
with pulse, a pease pudding is an abomi- 
nation, if not boiled in soft water. 

It is now an established point among 
the best authorities, that the meat should 
be immersed in the pot upon the fire, 
whilst the water is cold, that it may be- 
come progressively. heated with the 
water, and thereby gradually boiled; 
for by net immersing it in the water un- 
til hot, as of old, the sudden transition 
from cold to heat not only rendercd the 
meat dark in complexion, but tough. 

Cooks should be careful in managing 
the form of certain meat for the pot, 
either by skewering or tying, where ne- 
cessary: for shapeless masses of flesh, of 
unequal thickness, cannot be equally 
cooked, as the thinner parts must of 
necessity be overdone. before the thicker 


portion is equally acted upon by the 


boiling water. 

All meats are best cooked, whether by 
steam or immersion, by being slowly or 
gently boiled ; consequently the fire must 


(7) 


BOI 


* 
be properly attended to, and a vigilant 
eye kept upon the state of the pot. 

‘Modern experiments, thanks to the 
enlightened few who have applied the 
science of chemistry to the improvement 
ofthe culinary art, have proved that water 
for all the purposes, of thisdepartment of 
cooking, can but boil. That galloping 
bustle of the pot, and flapping of the 
cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, 
over-notable housewives of the last age, 
is now proved to have been, mere 

‘¢ Hubble-bubble, 

Toil and trouble ;” 
to no other end than to save a little time, 
at an enormous expense of fuel, and thus 
converting excellent meat from the lar- 
der, into an execrable dish for the table. 
Hence, many domestic droé/s, upon un- 
successful doi/s, in those days when even 
the potent demonstrations of science 
were vainly opposed to the prejudices of 
the boiling pot. 

Salted meats above all animal aliments 
should be slowly boiled. Indeed for these, 
the pot should be kept in a simmering 
state,which cannot be managed without 
vigilance, as it is indispensable that the 
fire should be attended to; for one act of 
the poker by an impatient hand, may set 
the pot into a too.violent state of ebulli- 
tion, whilst too low a fire, from inatten- 
tion, may reduce the heat cf the water, 
so as to injure the meat, for too low, as 
well as too high a degree of heat will 
render all boiled flesh hard or tough. It 
is indispensable also that the water 
should entirely cover the meat; conse- 
quently the dimensions of the pot should 
be suited to the bulk of the joint. 

Other evil consequences arise from 
boiling too violently ; as, by the force of 
the steam the cover of the pot is con- 
stantly lifted up, and with the escape of 
the steam thus i; berated, the more vola- 
tile and savoury particles of the meat es- 
cape also,and the meat is thereby depriv- 
ed of its flavour, and rendered less nutri- 
tious. This constant opening and shut- 
ting of the lid moreover renders the pot 
liable to the admission of smoke, and 
sometimes even of soot, which taints the 
meat and broth, beyond endurance. 

Large joints, as rumps and rounds of 
beef, hams, &c. where there is suitable 
convenience, are best boiled in a copper, 


as it is less difficult to regulate the heat 


of a copper fire than that of a kitchen 
range. A discreet cook, will be known 
by her economy in the management of 
the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of 
magnitude, proportioned to the means 
of every househo!d, it being an article 


of great expence in most parts of the 


kingdom, 


rs 


ae 


BOT ( 72) 


Boruzne. — Meat before boiling or 
roasting should be washed, and it is im- 
proved in colour by soaking. For roast- 
ing or baking, however, before it is put 
on the spit or in the oven, it should be 
wiped and dried. 

It is impossible to complete the opera- 
tion of boiling without due care in skim- 
ming the pot. The instant the water 
approaches boiling heat. the scum which 
rises to the surface must be cleared off; 
and in this early state of the process, 
from the operation of the heat disengag- 
ing the coagulated matter, which thus 
floats, the skimming must be patiently 
followed up, or it will attach itself to the 
meat, and thereby spoil its appearance. 
The cook must not neglect to skim dur- 
ing the whole process, though the coa- 
gulum rises less frequently the longer it 
boils. By strictattention to this impor- 
tant part of the process of boiling, the 
custom of wrapping the meat in a cloth, 
may be dispensed with. Indeed, the 
only reason assigned for this, is to pre- 
serve its appearance; whilst, if the pot 
be carefully skimmed, the meat will be 
cooked clean and pure, and come out of 
the vessel in which it is boiled, still 
more delicate, white and firm, than when 
so wrapped up—the flavour too is im- 
proved by the absence of the cloth. 

The learned in the art of boiling re- 
commend different periods for the com- 
pletion of the process, some allowing 
fifteen minutes to each pound—others 
twenty, and some even more. All the 
best authorities, however, as Dr. Kit- 
ehiner, Accum, Mrs. Rundell, and 
others, agree in this, that the loner the 
boiling, the more perfect the operation. 
The French cuisinzer may claim the 
honours of a scientific stew, but the Eng- 
lish cook against the whole world for a 
delicate boil. 

It is of consequence, as before said, 
to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, 
for there should be no space for super- 
fluous water. The scientific allowance 
being about a pint of water to a pound 
of meat. It is sufficient that the joint 
be entirely covered, as the richness of 
the juices are best preserved in propor- 
tion to the least quantity of water. The 
liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and 
should be consequently preserved, to 
use for that useful purpose, as by thus 
slowly boiling, or simmering, it imbibes 
no inconsiderable portion of savoury 
nutriment. 

As tke water wastes whilst boiling by 
evaporation, the pot should be replenish- 
ed, for the water must constantly cover 
the meat. A little cold water, too, ac- 


BOU 


celerates the rising of the scum to the 
SUL face pyrene peuatn 3 big 
When taken from the pot, the meat 
must be carefully wiped. Some use a 
clean cloth for this purpose, but asponge 
previously dipped in hot water, and 
wrung dry, is more convenient. This is 
done by wringing and cleansing the 
sponge in hot water prepared’ at hand. 


Be careful not to let the meat stand, but. 


send it to table with all convenient 
speed, or it will darken in complexion, 
and become hard. Boiled meat, as wel 

as roast, cannot be served too hot. 


BOUCHEES de Dames.*—Mix with 


six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
three ounces of potatoe-flour, a little 
salt, and a pinch of dried orange flowers: 
beat them together well, and havi 
buttered a tin, lay your paste on if, an 
bake it ina gentle oven for a quarter of 
an hour; when done, cut it in pieces 
about the size of a crown piece, and glaze 
them, mask them according to your 
pleasure, and dry them in the oven, 
Boucnees (Petites), de Dames,*— 
Take two ounces of spoon-liscuzt paste, 
and lay it on paper, about the size of a 
half-crown, cover them with sifted sugar, 
and put them in a moderate oven as svon 
as the sugar dissolves; take them out 
when properly done, and remove them 
from the paper and and let them cool ; 
then mask the unglazed side (that which 
was next the paper), with apricot mar- 
malade, as you do two, join them to- 
gether ; when all are done, put a quarter 
of a pound of sugar and the white of an 
egg intoa pan, and stir it about witha 
silver spoon for ten minutes, adding now 
and then a little lemon juice to keep it 
white; ice the bowchées de dames al} 
over with this mixture, place them on 
paper, and put them just within the 
oven, that they may dry, without chang 
ing colour. : ' 
Boucness (Petites), Glacées.*-—Rol} 
some puff-paste to about the eighth of 
an inch in thickness, and with a plain 
round paste-cutter, of two inches diame- 
ter, cutout as many cakes as you may 
require; then with a smaller cutter, take 
out the middle of half the number, so as 
to make rings of them; moisten the 
edges of the former. and Jay the rings 
on them 5 wet them also as you lay them 
down, sprinkle them lightly with powder- 
sugar, and bake them in a brisk even. 
These Jouchées require great attention 
in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve 
and colour too quickly ; when done, they 
should be of a reddish tinge. Fill them 
with sweetmeats, preserves, or whipped 
cream, according to fancy. 


es " 








) 
‘ 
: 





BOU ( 73) BOU 


They maybe cut into squares, ovals, 
lozenges, &c. if you think proper. 
Bovucueres de Monsieur.*—Pound a 
stick of vanilla with two ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and then sift it; mix with it 
Seven additional ounces of dry powder- 
sugar, and half a pound of sifted flour ; 
add to this the whites of four eggs, whip- 
_ped firm, and work them together till 
the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat 
two copper-plates, rub them over with 
wax, and then wipe them; when cold, 
lay the paste with a knife, in pieces about 
the size of a filbert, shaped quite round, 
leave three quarters of an inch space 
between each; when the plates are full, 
put them on stools in an oven, so that 
they can receive no heat from below, 
then put a stove with hot coals on the 
top of the oven, and let them remain in 
this state for twenty-four hours; then 
ut them for fifteen or twenty minutes 
into a moderate oven. Take them from 
the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold, 
finish them in the same way as bouchées 
de dames ; glaze them with chocoiate, @ 
la rose, with pistachios, orange, cedrat, 
&c. &e. They may also be masked with 
sugar, pistachios, currants, &c. 
oucHEeES (Petites), Méringuées aux 
Pistaches.*—Make them the same as 
above, strew sugar over without wetting 
the rings, and bake them to a light co- 
lour in a moderate oven. Then mix a 
quarter of a pound of powder- sugar with 
three whites of eggs, well whipped, and 
mask the douchées lightly with it, and 
glaze them with sugar; having ready a 
quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts 
blanched, and each cut across sloping 5 
place these pieces round the edge of the 
bSouchées like a crown; and each piece 
of the pistachios being placed on the cut 
side, they stand out from the edge of the 
bouchée: this process being finished, 
put them in the oven again a few mi- 
nutes, to colour the egg; and in the 
mean time stir up the white of egg which 
remains, and make with it half as many 
méringuées as you have bouchées, sprin- 
kle them with sugar, and colour both 
sides of them in a slow oven; and when 
the bouchées are ready for table, fill 
them with whipped cream, with pista- 
chios, and cover each with half a-mé- 
ringue. 
oucHEEs (Petites), Perlées.*—Your 
bouchées being made and baked as above, 
whip the whites of two eggs to a firm 
froth, and mix them with four spoonsful 
of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, 
mask your douchées with it: then take 
some white of egg, and with the point of 
a knife, drop them in pearls about the 
size of a grape-stone, round each bou- 


chée, half an inch apart, sprinkle them 
lightly with sugar, and dry the egg in 
the oven, taking care they do not lose 
their whiteness, 

When cold, place between each pearl 
a smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill 
your bouchées with apricot marmalade, 


apple-jelly, &c.; if, however, the jelly,: 


or whatever else you may use, be of a 
red colour, your intermediate pearls 
should be composed of light-coloured 
preserve, such as apricot marmalade, 
&c. These should be pearled a few at 
a time only, 

Bouvcness (Petites), Pralinées.* — 
Having prepared the douchées as usual, 
durez and bake them in a moderate 
oven; when they are of the proper 
colour, mask them with whites of eggs 
mixed with sugar, and almonds minced 
very small; replace them in the ovena 
minute or two, and then strew red, or 
any Other coloured sugar on them, but 
not so thick as to cover the almonds en- 
tirely. Fill the dowehées as usual. 

Bovucuess (Petites), @ la Reine.*— 
The same as above, only the paste must 
be cut thicker, and before you dorez, let 
them stand a few minutes. Bake ina 
brisk oven. 


BOUCONS.—Take the Jean ofa fillet © 


of veal, cut it into long and thin slices, 
and lay them on a table ; placesome bits 


of bacon, such as you use in larding, and ° 


as many of raw ham, one fat and one 
lean, the length of your slices of veal ; 
then strew them all over with shred 
parsley and cives, and season them with 
spices and sweet herbs; then roll the 
slices of veal, bacon, and ham, up very 
handsomely, and stew them @ /a braise ; 
when they are stewed, drain the fat from 
them; put to them a gocd cullis, anda 
ragout of mushrooms, truffles, &c. and 
serve them hot. 

BOUILLON de Santé.— Put into a 
stock-pot six pounds of beef, halfa hen, 
and a knuckle of veal, Moisten with 
cold water. Let it boil so that the scum 
rises only by degrees, skim it well, then 
throw into it two carrots, two leeks, a 
head of celery, two onions stuck with 
three cloves, and three turnips. Let the 
whole simmer gently four hours. Put 
in a little salt, ard take off all the fat. » 
BOUQUET /Water.—Take the flowers 
of white lilies and Spanish jessamine, of 
each half a pound ; orange, jonquil, and 
pink, flowers, of each four ounces; da- 
mask rose leaves, one pound; let all be 
fresh gathered, and put into an alembic 
with a gallon of proof spirit, and two 
quarts of water. Place it in the lac 
marie, and draw it off till the leaves be- 
gin ay a 





BRA 

BOURGUIGNOTTE. — Cut some 
truffies into balls the size of a nutmeg; 
take some small round mushrooms, and 
put about twenty of each into a small 
stewpan: pour over them a pint of red 
wine, with a small lump of sugar; re- 
duce the wine to a glaze. Then throw 
into the stewpan six spoonsful of espag- 
mole, and two of consommé. Boil the 
whole for half an hour, taste it, and if 
well seasoned, serve it up. 

BOUTONS.—Make a good, well sea- 
soned godiveau; lay this upon broad thin 
slices of bacon, such as will wrap up your 
-whole bouton; put to it a good ragout 
of veal sweet-breads, mushrooms, arti- 
‘choke bottoms, truffles, and asparagus 
tops, dressed with white sauce; then 
‘cover this with another layer of godi- 
veau, and slices of bacon; then bake it 
either between two fires, or dress it 
otherwise ; when it is done, take off the 
fat; add some lemon juice, and garnish 
with farced rolls, frincandeaux, and 
marinades. 

You may make boutons of fish, by 
making the godivean of beet tench, eel, 
or what fish you please, well minced and 
-Beasoned. . 

BRAISE, (¢o.)*—This is a method of 
dressing meat, poultry, &c. &c. without 
its undergoing any evaporation. Jt is 
done by lining a braising-pan with thin 
slices of bacon, beef, or veal, upon which 
place whatever you may intend to draise, 
and also add carrots, onions, lemons, bay- 
leaf, herbs, pepper and salt. 

BRAISING Pan.—A deep well-tin- 
ned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid 
of which must close hermetically, and 
have a ledge round so that coals or hot 
ashes may be placed on the top when 
necessary. _ 

BRANDY Cream.—Boil two dozen 
blanched sweet almonds, and three bit- 
ter pounded, ina little milk. When cold,. 
add to it the yolks of fivé eggs well 
beaten in a little cream, sweeten and put 
to it two glasses of the best brandy, and 
when well mixed, add a quart of thin 
cream; set itover the fire, but do not 
Jet it boil; stir one way till it thickens, 
then pour into glasses. When cold it 
will be ready; if you wish it to keep, 
scald the cream provi: A ratafia 
drop may be added.  _- 

Branpy Pudding.—Line a mould with 
_jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then 
_ lay thin slices of French roll; next put 
‘a layer of ratafias or macaroons, then the 
‘fruit, rolls, and cakes, in succession, un- 
til the mould be full, pouring in at times 
two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, 
yolks and whites separately, put to them 
a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweeten- 


(74 


) BRE 


ed, half anutmeg, and the rind of half 4 
lemon grated. ‘Pour it into the mould, 


‘and when the solid has imbibed it all, 


flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil an 
hour; keep the mould the right side up- 
wards. | . a 
BRAWN, to Bake.—Take raw lean 
brawn, and the same quantity of fat ba- 
con, mince them small, then pound them 


in astune mortar, with a handful of sage, 


seasoned with salt, pepper and ginger, 


add the yolks of eggs, and some vinegar, . 


then put the brawn into a cold paste, 
lay on butter and bay leaves, make your 


pie round and bake it. To be eaten 3 


cold. 
Brawn (Mock).—Take four cow-heels, 


clean and wash them thoroughly, and — 


boil in plenty of water till very tender, 
then take them out and shred them in 
long pieces, which put in a stewpan, Just 
coversthem with stock and let them stew 
a little; have ready chopped a handful 
of capers, half as many gherkins, and 
one glass of vinegar, stir them in with 
the heels ; put all this into a mould, and 
when cold take it out. | 


Brawn (Mock).— Boil two pair of. 


neats’ feet very tender, and pick the 
flesh entirely from the bones; take the 
belly-piece of pork, and boil it, when 
nearly done, bone and roll up the meat 
of the feet in the pork very tight; then 
wrap a coarse cloth tightly round it, and 
tie it with tape. Boil it very tender, 
and hang it in a cloth till cold, then put 
it in some sousing liquor, and keep it for 
use, ; 

Brawr, to Souse.—Take a brawn 
about three years old, cut off the head 
close to the roots of the ears, and cuta 
fine collar off the side bone and hinder 
legs, an inch deeper in the belly than on 
the back, bone them; bind them up 
equally at both ends, let them lie in 
water to soak a night and a day, put 
them into boiling water, keeping them 
continually skimmed, and after the first 
quick boiling, lessen the fire by degrees ; 
let them stand over it a whole night, 
then take them off, put them into deep 
hoops, and bind them with tape; and 
when they are cold, put them into a 
marinade of oat-meal and bran boiled in 
water; strainit, when itis cold, througha 


“sieve } put in vinegar and salt, and close 


up the vessel tight, and keep it for use. 
Buawn (Sousefor).—Boil a quarter of 
a peck of wheat bran, a sprig. of bay, a 
sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, 
with four eunces of salt in it for half an 
hour, strain, and let it get cold. - 
BREAD.—Ovens should be construct- 
ed of a circular form, and not lower from 
the roof than twenty inches, nor. higher 


i 
| 
t 





BRE 


than two feet. The mouth should not 
be even an inch wider than is requisite, 
with an iron door to shut close; one so 
formed will require less fuel, and retain 
the heat much better than an oven of a 


longer form and higher roof, and, conse- | 


quently, will bake every thing more 


completely. Those families who reside | 


in the country, where wood is more 
easily procured, have the advantage over 
the London bakers, for although neces- 
sity has introduced the custom of using 
sea-coal for baking in great cities, ovens 
wherein wood alone is used, bake to 
the greatest perfection, and with more 
purity. P 

Breav.—Put a quartern of flour into 
a large basin with two teaspoonsful of 
salt, make a hole in the middle, then 
put in a basin fuur table spoonsful of 
good yeast, stir in it a pint of milk 
lukewarm, put itin the hole of the flour, 
stir it just to make it a thin batter, then 
strew a little flour over the top, then set 
it on one side of the fire, and cover it 
over; let it stand till next morning, 
then make it into a dough; add half a 
pint more of warm milk, knead it for 
ten minutes, and then set it in a warm 
place by the fire for one hour and a half, 
then knead it again, and it is ready 
either for loaves or bricks; bake them 
from one hour and a half to two hours, 
according to the size. 

Breav (drown) Ice.—Grate stale brown 

bread as fine as possible, soak a small 
proportion in cream, for two or three 
hours, sweeten, and ice tt. 
Breap (brown) Pudding. — Half a 
pound of stale brown bread grated, the 
same of currants, and of shred suet, a 
little nutmeg and sugar,mix with four 
eggs a spoonful of brandy, and two 
spoonsful of cream, boil ina cloth or ba- 
sin three or four hours. 

Breap and Butter Pudding.—Cut a 
penny loaf in thin slices of bread and 
butter, as for tea, butter a dish, lay 
slices over it, strew currants on them, 
then lay the bread and butter, strew cur- 
rants, and so on till the dish is full. Beat 
up four eggs with a pint of milk, a little 
salt, nutmeg and sugar, and pour over 
the pudding. Lay a puft-paste round, 
and bake it; half an hour will be suffi- 
cient. 

Breap (common) Cake.—Take the 

uantity of a quartern loaf from the 
dntieh: when making white bread, and 
knead well into it two ounces of butter, 
tivo of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- 


rants. Warm the butter in a teacupful. 


of good milk. Bake inacake tin. | 
Breap (Diet) Cake.—Break nine 
eggs, separate the yolks and whites, take 


(75 ) 


BRE 


their weight. in sifted sugar. Whisk the 
whites to a firm froth, add the yolks, 
well beaten, and then whisk them to- 
gether; put the sugar and the weight of 
five eggs of flour and a few carraway 
seeds. Mix all well together, and bake 
in a hoop. 

-Breav_ Cheesecakes.—Slice a large 
French roll very thin, pour on it some 
boiling cream; when cold, add six or 
eight eggs, halfa pound of butter melted, | 
some nutmeg, a spognfnl of brandy, a 
little sugar, and half a pound of currants. - 
Put them in puff-paste as other cheese 
cakes. 

Baegap, (fo serve with Coffee.)*—Whip 
up the whites of ten eggs to.a thick snow 5 
add to them the yolks beaten with eight 
ounces of powder sugar, place it over a 
charcoal fire, and whip it for half an 
hour, then take it from the fire, and 
whip again until cold. Mix in eight: 
ounces of sifted flour. Have ready bute 
tered two moulds lined with paper, pour 
the paste into them, and bake them ina 
moderate oven; when done, take them 
out of the moulds and remove the paper ; 
when cold, cut them in slices about the 
size of a finger. Place them on a plate 
of copper, over a charcoal fire,and when 
one side is brown, turn them and brown 
the other side. These if kept dry will 
be good for a long time. 

Breap (rich) to serve with Coffee.*— 
Make your paste as above, but when you 
have mixed in your fiour, add to it the 
rind of two lemons grated; candied 
lemon and orange peel, of each two 
ounces chopped; stir them in with a 
wooden spoon, and finish as above, 

Bread Crumbs Fried.—Rub_ bread 
that has been baked two days, through 
an iron sieve or cullender; put them into 
a stewpan with two ounces of butter; 
place it over a moderate fire, and stir 
them with a wooden spoon till of a fine 
gold colour; spread them on a sieve, and 
let them stand ten minutes to drain, 
turning them often. 

Breapb, Freneh.—Lay half a bushel of 
the best Hertfordshire white flour at one 
end of the trough, and make a hole in 
the middle of it. Mix a pint of gvod. 
small-beer yeast witn three quarts of 
warm water, put it in, and mix it up 


well till it is tough, puta flannel over it, 


and let it rise as high as it will; watch- 
ing carefully that it does not fall. When 
it is at its height, take six quarts of 
skimmed milk, blood-warm, the bluer 
the better, provided it be sweet, and one 
pound of salt. Be careful not to put any 
milk with the yeast at first, for that will 
prevent the yeast from rising, a8 any 


greasy substance will have that effect. 


BRE 
Then, instead of working it with the 
hands, as is done with dough for English 
bread, put the ends of your fingers to- 
gether, and work it over-your hands un- 
til it is quite weak and ropy, and then 
cover it over with flannel. Put the fire 
into the oven, and make it very hot, by 
which time the dough will be ready. 
Lay the dough on the dresser, and in- 
stead of a common knife, have one made 
like a chopping-knife to cut it with. 
Then make it up into rolls or bricks at 
pleasure. The bricks (of the common 
size) will require an hour and a half to 
bake, the rolls only halfan hour. | 
‘Draw them out, and either rasp them 
with a rasp, or chip them with a knife. 
Some persons break in two ounces of 
alta® when working up with the second 
iquor. 

Breapv French.*—Take half a bushel 
€or six pounds) of flour, put it on the 
slab, make a hole inthe centre, in which 
put two ounces of yeast; make your 
dough with-warm water, to about the 
consistence of brioche ; work it up well, 
adding two ounces of salt, dissolved in a 
Jittle warm water; cover, and setitina 
warm place to rise; on this part of the 
operation depends the quality of the 
‘bread. Having left the dough one or two 
hours, (according to the season), knead 
it again, and leave it as before, for two 
hours. In the mean while, heat the 
oven, divide the dough into eight equal 
parts, of which form as many loaves, into 
any shape you please; put them into the 
oven as quickly as possible. As soon as 
they are done, rub the crusts with a little 
butter, which will give it a fine yellow 
colour. : 

Breavp( French), or Rolls.*—Take half 
a bushel or six pounds of sifted flour, 
knead it into dough, with two quarts of 
milk, three quarters of a pound of warm 
butter, half a pound of yeast, and two 
ounces of salt; when the whole is well. 
worked up, cover, and leave it to rise. 
In two hours time, form it into rolls, and 
Jay them on tinned plates. Place them 
in a slow oven. 

When they have been in an hour, put 
them into’ a very hot oven for twenty 
minutes. Rasp them as soon as they 
are baked. 

. Brean Fritters.*—Boil half a pint of 

milk till reduced to half, witha little 
sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange- 
flower water, and a little lemon-peel 
shred fine; have ready some pieces of 
crumb of bread, cut about the size of 
half-crowns, but thicker; put them into 
the milk to soak a little, then drain, flour, 
and fry them. Glaze them with sugar, 
and pass the salamander over them. 


( 76 ) 


BRE 
- Breav, Géteaux.*—Grate the crumb- 
ofa fresh loaf, throw itinto boiling cream, 
keep stirring it over the fire, and let it 
boil some time longer; then add toita 
bit of butter, some sugar and lemon- 
peel, and currants, if you think proper; 
butter a stewpan well, pour the bread, 
&c. into it, and place it on a stove, with 
fire on the lid also. When the gdteaux 
is of a nice colour, turn it on a dish and 
Serve IC. (<a ie ee 
Brean, é la Grecgue.*—Putsix pounds 
of sifted flour intoa large pan, set it in. 
the oven: for about an hour, that it may 
be tolerably warm, then mix with -it 
three ounces of yeast, two ounces of 
salt, and a sufficient quantity of milk 
and water to make it into dough (not too 
stiff), Having kneaded it well, cover, 
and set it on the oven orina stove 3 after 
it has stood three bours, divide it into 
eight parts, put them into as many but- 
tered tins, place them immediately into 
a very hot oven, and when nearly done, 
take them out of the tins and place them” 
on tin plates for a few minutes to colour 
the crust. Wrap themin flannel. — 
Breap, London.—To make London. 
bread, put a bushel of good fiour which 


has been ground a month or six weeks,in 


one end of the trough, and make a hole 
inthe middle of it. Take nine quarts of 
warm water, and mix it with one quart 
of good yeast ; put it into the flour, and 
stir it well with your hands}; let it re- 
main until it rises as high as it will go, 
which will take about an hour and a 
quarter. Watch it carefully to its ulti-. 


mate height, and do not suffer it to fallg . 
then make up the dough with eight quarts — 


more of warm water and one pound of 
salt; work it wéll with your hands, and 
then cover it over with a sack or other’ 


coarse cloth. Put the fire into the oven 


heat it thoroughly, and by the time it 
hot, the dough will be ready. 

Next make the dough into loaves, not 
exceeding four or five pounds .each, 
sweep out the oven clean, and put in the 
loaves. Shut the oven close, and they 
will be baked in about two hours anda 
half; then open the oven, and draw the 
bread. Bo Ewe 

In summer the water need not be more 
than blood warm, but in winter it must 
be a few degrees higher in heat. During. 
a hard frost, however, the water shoul 
be as hot as the hand could bear it, 
though not sufficiently hot to scald the 
yeast, as that would spoil the whole batch 
of bread. Other quantities of bread are 
made in the same proportion. 

Brrap, Manheim.*—Take six spoons- 
ful of flour, three of sugar, half an ounce 
of green anise, and a little salt; make it. 


———<- = ae 


ee ee a eee ae 





BRE 


intova firm paste, with two eggs, and roll 
itinto pieces abouta foot long, and rather 


more than an inch thick; lay them on 


buttered tins, dorez and mark them with 
the point of a knife, and put them into a 
hot oven ; when done, cut them in pieces 
for use. 

~BreabD oor Heer two or three 
French rolls in slices, and soak them in 
apint of creamor good milk; beat up 
the yolks of six eggs with them, and add 
sugar, orange-flower water, three pound- 
ed macaroons, anda glass of white wine ; 
tie it up in a basin or buttered cloth, let 
the water boil when you put in the pud- 
ding, and boil it for alt an hour. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

Breav (little) Puddings.—Steep the 
crumb ofa penny loaf, grated, in about 
a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat 
up six eggs and mix with it; add two 
ounces of warmed butter, sugar, orange- 
flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a 
little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. 
Beat all well together, and bake in but- 
tered tea-cups; a quarter of a pound of 
currants, orange or lemon candied may 
be added. 

Breap Sauce.—Cutin slices the crumb 
of a French roll, to which add a few pep- 
percorns, one whole onion, a little salt, 
and boiling milk enough to cover it; let 
it simmer gently by the side of the fire 
till the bread has imbibed the whole of 
the milk; then add a little thick cream, 
take out the onion, and rub the whole 
through a sieve; make it very hot, and 
serve in asauce-boat, either for game or 

fowls. 

Brean Sippets, fried.—Cut a slice of 
bread a quarter of an inch thick, cut it 
into pieces about two inches square, and 
shape them to your fancy; make some 
very clean fat, hot in a frying-pan, and 
fry the bread in it; when of a delicate 
light brown, take them up with a fish- 
slice, and drain them, turning them oc- 
easionally. 

BREAM, fo dress.—After your bream 
is scaled and drawn, notch the side of it, 
dip it in melted butter; make a brown 
sauce with anchovies, capers, cives, and 
parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a 
little butter; then put in a little fish- 
broth, and thicken it with acullis that 
is to be poured on the fish; but do not 
put the anchovies in till you are going to 
serve; when it is broiled enough, serve 
it up with the aforesaid sauce. é 

It may also be served with a white 
sauce. 

Bream, fo stew.—Scale and well wash 
the bream, preserve the blood to stew it 
in, put to it two glasses or more of claret, 
a little ginger, the pulp of halfa pound 


(77) 


of prunes boiled, and strained into the’ 


‘the fire. 


BRE 


stew; Salt, vinegar, two anchovies, some 
roots of horse-radish,stamped and strain- 
ed, and a small bunch of sweet herbs3 
let there be no more liquor than will just 
cover the fish, and other ingredients ; 
when it is enough, make a sauce with 
butter, a little of the bream liquor, beat 
them up together, then dish your fish, 
pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with 
lemon and barberries, and serve it vp. 

BRENTFORD Rolls.—Mix wit two 
pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces 
of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, 
and two eggs beaten with two spoonsful 
of yeast, and about a pint of milk; knead 
the dough well, and set it to rise before 
Make twelve rolls, butter tin 
plates, and set them before the fire again 
to rise. When of a proper size, bake 
them-for half an hour. 


BRETTONNE.*—Take twelve large’ 


onions, and cut each of them in half; be 
particular in taking out the germs; cut 
them into small pieces, and brown them 
over the fire; then put them intoa stew- 
pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a little bay, garlick, thyme, salt, and 
pepper, and let them cook over hot 
ashes, put ashes on the cover of your 
stewpan; when they are sufficiently 
done, add a little sugar, a little vinegar, 
and reduce the whole to a glaze witha 
little love-apple sauce; sprinkle with a 
little water, and add a large spoonful of 
blanc, then pass it through a bolting- 
cloth; afterwards put it intoa stewpan 
with some more é/anc, and a quarter of 
a pound of butter, and let it simmer. 
Serve with a white harico. 

BREWING.—Much indifferent beer 
is made in private families, even where 
there is no sparing of materials, for the 
mere want of system and economy in 
the management. 

In the first place, attention should be 
paid to the state of the utensils used in’ 
the operation, and all necessary prepa- 
rations made the day before the act of 
brewing commences; on which day, let 
the water be heated in the copper that it 
may be well cleansed; also cleanse the 
casks, mash-tub, coolers, &c. When 
this business is dispatched, fill the cop- 
per, and prepare all things in readiness 
for next morning. 

The allowance of malt for Strong Beer 
must be ten bushels to the hogshead. 

For A/e,nine bushels to the hogshead. 
- The copper for making a hogshead of 
beer or ale should contain full seventy 
gallons, because the hogshead of beer 
measure holds siwty-three gallons, and 
there should be the surplus measure ai- 
ay tig ae hops, and the working them 








BRE 


. about to advantage when the water boils, 
to prevent waste. With this copper four 
boilings will afford two hogsheads of 


_ strong beer or table ale, and two of table. 


eer. Miia pita le 
_ The malt should be ground four or five 
days before use, and be kept very clean. 
The necessary ingredients bging ready, 
the water must be made to beil rapidly, 
which done, the copper fire must then 
be damped. The malt having been pre- 
viously put into the mashing-tub (re- 
serving half a bushel) as soon as the 
steam from the boiling water begins to 
subside, the water is poured upon it to 
wet the malt so as to render it of a con- 
sistence stiff enough to be mashed; it 
should then remain covered over for a 
quarter of an hour, when more water is 
added and it is mashed as before; let it 
stand fora few minutes, and then add the 
whole quantity of water, accordingly as 
itis intended to have the beer more or 
less strong. Whilst the water is lading 
on, the mash must be kept stirring with 
a pole. When well mashed, run the big 
end ef the mash-oar through the middle 
of it to give it air, then put the spare 
half bushel of malt upon the mash; and 
cover the tub over with sacks to keep the 
steam and spirit of the malt in, and let 
it remain two hours; then let it rur into 
the receiver, and mash again for the 
second wort in the same manner as the 
first, excepting that the water must be 
cooler, and it must not stand more than 
half the time. 

Both these worts are now mixed toge- 
ther, and the quantity of hops determined 
upon are added, when the liquor must 
be put into the copper, which being 
closely covered, let it boil gently for two 
hours, then let the liquor into the re- 
ceiver, and the hops be strained there- 
from into the coolers. 

When cool, the barm or yeast, which 
should be white and sweet, is added, and 
the liquor well stirred from the bottem 
with a wooden bowl, turning it up topsy- 
turvy in the middle of each tub, which 
occasions the beer to ferment. If, how- 
ever, it happens thatin about two hours 
the fermentation is not favourable, it 
has been checked ; in which case, put the 
mash-oar, &c. across the tubs, and cover 
them with sacks to encourage the fer- 
mentation ; when the last thing at night, 

-and the first in the morning should be 
the stirring them well up again. Be 
careful that the tubs be not too full to 
work over in the night. 

The next morning, skim the greater 
part of the yeast off, and prepare to tun 
it. Let the casks be taken quite clean 
and y= into the cellars, which pro- 


( 78) 


the waste. 


~ 


BRE on 


motes the beer’s working. Itis reeom-" 
mended to fling a gallon or two of boiling - 
water in each, and turn it out again. 
Examine the cork and vent holes, and 


when the. casks are filled, reserve some 
spare beer, that as, it works in the casks 
you may fill 

‘As soon as full, take two 
pounds of fine wheat ficur, and 


its mantling, &c. . 


When this flour is put in the casks, 
each should be stirred with a long stick. 


for a few minutes ; then put the tin scoop 


into the upper cork-hole for the beer to. 


work through, and attend to it three or 
four times a day, particularly the last 
thing at night, and first in the morning ; 
and when the fermentation is done work- 
ing, which is usually an operation of 
three or four days, clean the outsides of 
the casks, and put in the beer, the hops 
saved in the pail, equally divided into 
each, stirring them about,. which opera-. 
tion fines.all beers, and then bung them 


tight down with a piece of coarse linen — 


cloth under the bung, if completely done 
working, but not else. 


For'sinall, or table beer, there must be. 


a third mashing. Reserve a pail-full of 
the strong beer to add to the small. 
Let the water, already heated in the cop- 


per, when within a few minutss of boil-. 


ing, be poured on the malt, keeping it 
mashed as before; then add the pail of 
strong, and cover it over with sacks as 
before mentioned, with. the mash oar 
standing in the middle, and let it remain 
an hour. Then fill the copper with the 
liquor, and let it boil very gently for an 
hour. The same preparation of flour and 
beer, should in the like proportion be 
added to the table beer. ye 
For good substantial strong beer or ale, 
and of fine flavour, there should be al- 
lowed one pound of hopsfor every bushet 
of malt. 
Hops that are good, and entirely free 
from adulteration, should be of a fine 
sweet smell, full of ripe seed, of a clear 
pale yellow colour, and clammy, which 
evinces their strength ; such an article 
ameliorates and preserves all beers. The 
best hops are those produced in Kent. 
The great secret of fining all beers, to 
render them of a clear brilliant colour 
is to take out three quarters of a pailful 
of the hops from the copper, when they 
have boiled an hour; for this simple 


them up in the cellars for 


beat it up- 
smooth with some of the new beer in a- 
pail, with a wisp, and divide it between | 
the two casks, keeping it well stirred up. 
near the bottom for a quarter of an hour. 
The flour thus prepared, gives to beer 
and ale a fine soft quality, and, while | 
under fermentation, adds to its flavour, 





BRE (79) BRE 


method is superior, and more congenial 
to beer than all the arts that are prac- 
-tised. . 

If, however, beers remain stubborn, 
either from bad cellars or weak hops, or 
from ill-management, then, in order to 
make beer or ale transparent and fine, 
isinglass may be used, which may be 
_ thus prepared ; if for fining a hogshead, 
take a quarter of a pound of isinglass, 
and put it intoa quart of the liquor 
drawn from the cask, and let them 
gently simmer over a slow fire for half 
_an hour, in a clean vessel. Pour this 
into a can of the beer, and put it into 
the cask, stirring it with a long stick for 
a quarter of an hour, and six hours after 
bung the cask close again. It is a bad 
practice to put raw hops into beer, as 
they are apt to become musty. 

Beers are-not unfrequently sick and 
out of condition; when this happens, 
they should again be put into anew fer- 
mentation: and then balls made of a 
pound of fine wheat flour, mixed with a 
sufficient quantity of treacle, will pro- 
mote their briskness. This composition 
softens all beers to the greatest advan- 
tage. e } 

Burton Ate.—For making of Bur- 
ton, or rich Welsh Ales. In lieu of boil- 
ing the wort two bours, let it boil only 
one hour, but without ceasing for the 
whole time. Have ready six pounds of 
treacle, which must be thrown into the 
copper ; this adds to the strength of the 
malt, and gives great richness to the 
flavour ofthe ale. The liquor must be 
kept well stirred up the whole time, and 
particularly from the bottom: but as this 
is not brewed for keeping, three quarters 
of a pound of hops to every bushel of 
malt will be sufficient. 

Before it is tapped (which may be 
done in three or four months), fine it as 
before described with the hops, when it 
will be found to possess that rich, full 
flavour for which Burton and Welsh 
ales are 50 muchesteemed. This has 
frequently been brewed in the early part 
of March, and drank in perfection at the 
latter end of the June following. Indeed, 
all well brewed ales and _ table beer, at 
three and four months old, are ripe and 


good. 

Edinburgh Oat Ales.— Should be 
made from the best white, heavy, sweet 
oat, made into malt the same as barley 
is.. The Scotch oats are preferred, and 
the ale made thereof, is, said to. be 
of a fine soft healing quality, and is of 
‘great repute, particularly in England, 
where it is not common. 

Though this ale requires a greater 
quantity of malt, it is brewed at a less 


price than others, as ten bushels will 


make a hogshead of fifty-four gallons, 
rich, soft and delicious, as no table beer 
is taken from it. From four to six . 


months old it will become fit for use, 
either in bottles or cask. It must be 
brewed, hopped, &c. in the same man- 
ner as Welsh ales. 

Some persons wko grow their own oats 
in England, make this ale, with a part 
of oat malt, and a part barley malt. 

Porter.—It is generally held that 
porter, to be good, {must necessarily be 
brewed in large quantities; this, how- 
ever, is a popular error. Excellent por- 
ter may be brewed in private families. 
and by proper management, so ordered, 
that ample time between each brewing 
may be allowed for it to refine for use. 
Those families therefore who have con- 
venient utensils for brewing strong 
beers. and ales, and who are acquainted 
with the process for making them suc- 
cessfully, may also add porter*to the 
cellar stock, and thereby supply their 
tables with that truly English beverage, 
and regale their friends with a tankard 
of that cool, refreshing, and wholesome 
liquor, pure, genuine, and free from 
those pernicious adulterations which are 
sometimes practised by the public brewer 
and too often by the publican, by whose 
cheating rapacity the health of his cus- 
tomers is destroyed, and the reputation 
of the brewer who serves his tap suffers 
accordingly. It is well known that the 
excisemen are instructed to keep a vigi-« 
lant eye upon the breweries, to prevent 
the use of deleterious drugs, in the com= 
position of beer, which instructions they 
more readily obey, as a heavy penalty is 
attached on. detection of such mal-prac- 
tises ; whilst the publican, who is com- 
monly the most culpable, for his share 
in the adulteration of beer, is generally 
allowed to escape detection. {t would 
be well, therefore, that the publican 
should be liable to an equal penalty with 
the brewer, as his risk is less, and his 
Broa certain, a very liberal allowance 

eing granted to all retailers of London 
porter. 

The brewing of porter is nearly by the 
same process as the brewing of ale. The 
mash, however,’must be made of a fine, 
high dried, sweet, full malt, (which is 
cheaper than the pale malt used for 
brewing the strong beer and ale); and 
full, fine, sweet, brown hops. 

It is not necessary for a porter brewer 
to give from ten to twenty shillings per 
hundred weight, for. colour or appear- 
ance in hops, when in actual value and 
strength they may be thirty per cent. in- 
ferior for his purposes; such bright and 








BRE ( 80) 


fair hops being only necessary in the 
che of the delicate and superior 
ales. 

The hop then selected for the brewing 
of porter, must be stout, gross, and thick 
blossomed ; rich in condition, though it 
be dull in colour. 

A species of hop, admirably well adapt- 
ed for this purpose, is met with in Kent; 
it is the produce of the plant Humulus 


Germanicus. Hops of this description © 


are most proper for the purpose, because 
time should be given them to mellow ; 
and the peculiar, soft, full, bitter requi- 
site, will be secured to them if kept. 

The necessary bitter cannot be ex- 
tracted from the new hop, unaccom- 
panied by harshness and unpleasantness. 
Good brewers (those who brew on; a 
large scale) give their hops eight or 
even twelve months age, and then they 
work eight or ten pounds of hops per 
quarter of malt. 

When the wort and hops are boiling, 
have ready to put into the copper (for 
every hogshead) one pound of bruised 
liquorice root, cut short, a quarter of a 
pound of Spanish liquorice, and six 
pounds of coarse brown moist sugar, or 
the same quantity of treacle, and so in 
proportion for everycask. Be careful 
to put in these ingredients when the 
wort and hops are boiling, and let them 
gently boil for two hours, keeping the 
liquor well stirred from the sides and 
bottom, the whole time : and then strain 
the hops off, and put it into the coolers 
the same asthe other beers. Put into 
some of the warm wort, halfa pound of 
moist sugar, boil thisin an iron pot till 
it becomes a black thick liquid, and then 
add, before it is cold, a pint of the warm 
porter, with a spoonful of salt of steel, 
and mix them well together; this is 
what the porter brewers call colour, and 
is in quality between a bitter and sweet, 
which gives to the liquor that fine mel- 
low taste and colour usually admired in 
good porter. In six months it will be fit 
for use, and will have, when drawn, a 
fine cauliflower head. As no table beer 
is required from this, eight bushels of 
malt, and eight pounds of hops will be 
sufficient. 

Brown Strovur.—To brew brown stout, 


porter, or strong beer, to go abroad, 


allow ten bushels to the hogshead, and if 
intended fer a hot climate, fourteen 
pounds of hops, good, strong, perfectly 
sweet, and full of seed. 

Ail malt liquor that is brewed for long 
voyages at sea, should be perfectly ripe 
and fine, before it is:put on board, and 
should be sent in the same cask it is 
tunnedin. A thirty-six gallon cask or 


BRE 


barrel, is the most convenient size for 
ship-board. For sea voyages too, in lieu” 
of vent-pegs, vent-nails should be pro- 
cured from the ironmongers, for they 
‘shift up and down of themselves, as the 
beer requires. a ONY 

After the porter is fined in the manner 
of the other beers, with good hops, to 
make it carry a fine head, lower the hand 
in drawing it, some distance from the 
cock, and let it run down the side of the 
tankard, leaving lip room on the top. 

If private families would have good 
casks, and of an uniform size, none are 
more durable, perhaps, than the iron- 
bound rum puncheons, which generally 
hold about one hundred and twenty gal- 
lons, which is nearly two hogsheads, beer 


‘measure, and may be purchased of any 


of the great dealers in Jamaica rum, ~— 
and at a reasonable price. These with 
care, and particularly if painted in oil 
colours, will last many years. : 
If new casks be purchased, those of 
the bell shape are preferred. All new 
casks must be filled with fresh cold 
water, and left to stand three or four 
days, and then well scalded before beer 
is put into them, _ 

In cleaning casks, they must be washed 
with cold water: and nothing is more 
efficacious and searching, in getting the 
dirt out of all coolers, casks, &c. than a 
lump of unslacked lime flung into the 
water; when well soaked, they.must be 
carefully scrubbed and cleaned with a 
birch broom. 

If the casks should happen to become 


‘musty, employ a cooper to unhead them 


and burn them out. As soon as a cask 
becomes empty, take care to stop up the 
bung, and vent, and cork-hole tight, 
which will be the means of keeping them 
sweet. The cocks should be taken from 
empty casks, and immediately clean | 
scalded with boiling water, and put 

away in a dry place. . . 

The following suggestions and notices 
cannot fail to be useful : 

Hops of every quality should be kept 

in a dry chamber. 
’ The hops that are intended to be used 
when brewing, should be wetted thus ; 
let the tub stand under the cock of the 
copper, which, half turned, enables you 
to moisten them gradually. They should 
be rubbed between the hands to sepa- 
rate them, and break the lumps. 

To cleanse musty casks, dissolve a 
pound of bay salt, and half a pound of 
alum in water, then add as much dung 
from a milking cow as will render 
thick, but not more so than will allow 
it to pass through a funnel; place it on 
a fire, and stir it with a stick until it 








BRE (81) BRE 


nearly boils, then put it into the cask; 
bung it close, shake it about for a. few 
minutes, and let it remain two hours— 
then take out the bnng, and let the va- 
pour escape; fasten it down again, give 
it another shaking, and let it remain 
two hours more. After this, cleanse 
the cask thoroughly with cold water, not 
ceasing until it comes out perfectly clean 
and untainted. This done, have ready 

a liquor, made with half a pound ef bay 
salt, and two. ounces of alum boiled in 

- water; wash the cask well with this, 
and cleanse the cask as before with 
water, after which the cask will be fit 
for use. 

Tue Critar.—A good brewer, cellar- 
man, &c. will take delight in the well- 
ordering of the cellar. Attention must 
be paid to cleanliness both in his person 

- and business ; every thing in the cellar 
consequently ‘should be kept in due 
order. The brewer, or cellar-man to the 
nobleman, or gentleman, who maintains 
a large establishment, should occupy 
himself every morning in the cellars. 

The following duties are incumbent— 

During the summer months, have the 
peer cellars and stairs clean washed 
‘weekly, and particularly under the casks. 
Empty the tap-tubs daily, into a cask 
kept for the purpose of containing the 
slops and grounds; for the cellars, on 
opening, should always smell pure and 
sweet. By attention to these offices, the 
cellars are not only pleasant to enter, 
but the beer is kept fine and cool during 
the hot months; whereas, by inattention 
to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause 
the beer to ttirn sour. 

During the winter months, scraping 
and sweeping out the cellars once a 
week will be sufficient. Observe, all 
cellars, in the winter, cannot be kept too 
close and warm, for without great atten- 
tion on this point, the liquors cannot 
thrive. - 

The following necessaries should be 
provided for cellars to large establish- 
ments. Those families who brew on a 
smaller scale, will apply their uses, 
according to their proportionate con- 
venience. 

Suitable shot, and lead canister, with 
holes in bottom, and two cloths to wash 
bottles, to be kept in the bottle rack. 
Two suitable tubs for washing bottles 
only, with a form to stand on. Six strain 
cocks, bungs, corks, vent pegs, and a 
mallet. A pair of pliers, to draw pegs, 
and cork drawer. <A leather boot to 
buckle on the knee, to contain the battles 
when corking them, for if the bottle 
breaks the boot saves the liquor. A 


strong, heavy, mahogany cork driver. 
Six strong prickles to be kept in a dry 
place. Coarse linen to put under the 
bungs; the old hop sacks will serve. 
Six tin spouts, the size of a beer cock, 
made at the lower end as broad asa 
banker’s shovel at the bottom, for the 
beer to work through, from the top cork 
hole, with brown paper round the. top. 
A strong iron skewer to raise bungs 
with. A middle sized cooper’s gimblet, 
the size of the small spigots and faucets. 
A quire of strong brown paper to put 
round cocks, and another quire to make 
hop bags with. Two large strong sponges 
to clean the outsides of the casks, &c 
A pair of slings to grapple the casks 
with, to take into the cellars, for rolling 
them will cause dirt to hang aboutthem, 
&c. A pair of strong folding steps. Haif 
a dozen mahogany spigots and faucets, 
about the size of the little finger, to be 
had of the best turners, (being much 
superior to pegs, whichare wasteful), to 
try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A 
strong hammer and iron driver, such as 
the coopers use, to drive down the hoops 
with, which have loosened from tubs, 
casks, &c. Two split sticks, for cellar 
candlesticks. Six iron-bound tap tubs, 
and brush to clean them with. A whisk, 
for the yeast, wine finings, &c. <A six 
gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the 
beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast 
up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. 
Delph iabels to hang on the tops of 
all the liquor bins, as claret, champaign, 
sherry, calcavella, porter, cider, perry, 
port, rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and 
valench. Four, or six ice pails, for 
wines, &c.in summer. A wine basket, 
made to hold the bottles that are crust- 
ed on their sides, to bring from the cellar 
in that position. A raising jack, to raise 
wine in casks upon their stands. A 
pulley and ropes to let wine and liquor 
down into the cellars. A wine bit of 
various sizes, to borethe casks with. A 
flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. 
Two strong iron-bound pails. A Gun- 
ter’s guagerule. A stamped bushel mea- 
sure, to measure the malt, with a strike. 
A small cooper’s adze. <A pair of stil- 
yards to weigh the hops, or scales, with 
stamped lead or iron weights, to be kept 
dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare 
bottles when bottling off. A large wood 
ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to 
siton. A leather apron, with a pocket 
before, for pegs, &c., and bib to button 
up on the waistcoat. A flannel bag, with 
hoop on top, made as a jelly bag, to run 
the lees ofall wine through. A common 
cork screw. An iron-bound wine can, 





BRE 


for fining wines in. A hoe, a spade, six 
good stiff birch brooms, and the same 
number of strong rag mops. 2 

The use of the iron skewer is to raise 
up the bung by degrees, first giving it 
vent, for drawing it up with the hands is 
a dangerous operation. 

Have a large cupboard made and fixed 
in the cellar, or near it, in a dry spot, 
to hold most of the small tools, so that 
every thing may be at hand when wanted. 
Such toolsas are too large for the cup- 
board, may be kept in the brew-house. 

Matt.—In choosing the malt, take 


~ especial! care that it is not peat, or straw- 


dried : and procure it of a pale colour, 
for they are the best of all malts, ‘and 
more balsamic, also soft and smooth, and 
highly agreeable to the palate. 

Every gentleman who studies his own 


- interest, would do wisely to purchase the 


malt unground: for in grinding your 
own malt, you have not only the satis- 
faction of knowing that it is not adul- 
terated, but there is another advantage, 
for of ten bushels of malt in the grain, 
there wili be a saving of nearly two 
bushels. 

Malts should not be ground too fine, 
but on the contrary, broke or made into 
a kind of coarse meal. 

Good malt is known by asimple test, 
namely by chewing it; for if well made, 
it will be nearly as sweet as sugar, de- 
lightful to the smell, of a mellow flavour, 
round body, and thin skin. 

Hors.—When hops are purchased, let 
them not be loose in the bags, but very 
light packed, for that preserves them. - 

Be careful that no soap or grease gets 
about the tubs or pails, for either will 
prevent the beer from working, and 
waste the whole. 

Never suffer the brewhouse to be used 
but for the operations belonging to the 
brewery, nor any of the tubs and pails 
for other purposes. nor suffer them to 
be taken from the brewhouse. 

Take care that the liquor-stands be 

uite steady, for if they rock they injure 

e beer. They should be made suffi- 
ciently stout, and of oak, when they will 
last for many years. 4 res fe 

Fine strong beer for bottling, should 
be six months old. Observe—never 
bottle in the cellar, either wine, beer, 
cider, &c., but on a fine clear day. Let 
the bottles be well inspected. and use 
none but the best velvet corks; for to 
purehase inferior, low priced corks, is 
mistaken economy, as, besides other bad 
effects, they will cause all liquors to 
taste of them. 

Beer, cider, and perry, -for home con- 
sumption, should stand in the bottles 


( 82 ) 











BRI 


six or eight hours before they are corked. ' 
Cider and perry should have the corks 
wired, and packed in a bin with sand; 
the beer should be well corked, and’ 
packed in a bin with dry deal saw-dust. 


Some beers require to be wired. sg 
Bottled beer for sending a voyage, 
should be drawn in the bottles, and left 


to stand forty-eight hours to flatten, be-" 


fore itis corked, and then wired with 


per lengths... ae | 

As cool, fine, bottled, transparent 
table beer is esteemed in the heat of 
summer, always during that season, have 
some bottled off, and packed in dry deal 
saw-dust; the old corks will serve. It 
is best to use two-quart bottles: (Scotch ’ 
pints), and when used at table, pour it 
gently down, the side of the glass, or 
decant it off in a japan jug, to prevent 
much froth. ; 

lItis the custom with the butler or 


cellarman at great houses, where the 


family pride themselves on the superior 
quality of their malt liquors, a fort-. 
night before ale, strong, or table beer is 
used at the master’s dinner table, to peg 
a cask, or two, of each, in order to select 
those of the best quality and flavour (for 
every cask is apt to differ, from some 
hidden cause, though brewed alike;) 


and twe or three days before it is — 


wanted, let it be tapped, and draw off’ 
a quart, or two, of each, which will 
greatly help to fine it; make use of 
strainer cocks, and keep the vent pegs 
tightin. In thesummer months, however, 
they may be eased, particularly if the 
beer frets; and never neglect to have 
atap-tub under each cock. By atten- 
tion to these rules, the butler may se- 
cure to his master the proud satisfaction, 
which has long been the boast of one’ 
of our oldest peers, in the elegant hos-' 
pitalities of his castle, of giving to his 
guests, a sparkling glass of ** Brélish 
Champuign.”’ 

’ BRILL.—Is dressed in the same man- 
ner a8 turbots. 

BRIOCHE.*-~—Divide haifa quartern 
of flour into three parts, and knead into’ 
one of them half an ounce of yeast and a’ 
little warm water, wrap it in a cloth and 
set it by, in summer time for a quarter 
of an hour, and in winter for a whole 
hour. When it has risen, put it to the 
remainder of the flour, with a pound and 
a half of butter, ten eggs, half a glass of 
water, and nearly an ounce of salt ; knead 
them together with your hand thorough- 
ly, and then wrap it ina clean cloth, and’ 
leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this 
paste into the size you: wish to have your: 
cakes, moisten, and roll them in your 


brass wire, cut for the purpose into pro-- 














BRO 


hand, flatten the top,and gild them with 

the yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be 
sufficient to bake the small ones; large 
cakes will require an hour and a half. 

Briocue Fritters.*—Cut some smell 
brioche cakes in balves, take out the 

-middie, and put in some kind of sweet- 
meat, or made cream; put the two halves 
of each together, so that they may ap- 

pear whole; dip them in a paste made of 

our, a little oil, salt and white wine, fry 
them of a gold colour, and glaze’ them 
with sugar, pass a salamander over. 

Briocue Fritters.*—Cut your brioche 
paste into slices of whatever thickness 
you. may think proper, soak them in 
milk, sugar, and orange-flower water; 
then let them drain; dip in batter, or 
flour alone, and fry them. 

Briocue au Fromage —When you 
make the brioche, cut some Swiss cheese 
into dice, and throw them into the paste 
while it is liquid, and bake as before. 

Brocou.— Strip off all the little 
branches till you come to the top one, 
then with a knife peel away the hard 
outside skin from tie stalks, and throw 
them into water. Have ready a stewpan 
of water, throw in a little salt, and when 
it boils put in the brocoli. When the 
stalks are tender itis done. Puta piece 
of toasted bread in a dish, lay the brocoli 
on it.. Serve with melted butter. 

Another way.—Prepare them as above, 
cand stew till tender, with pepper and salt. 

Brocontt and Eggs. —Boil brocoli as 
usual, reserve a large bunch for the mid- 

dle. Toast a piece of bread and lay it on 

a dish; beat up as. many eggs as you 
think proper, put them in a saucepan 

‘with a piece of butter and a little salt. 
Keep beating them with a’spoon tiil thick 
enough, and then pour them on the toast. 
Set the large bunch of brocoliin the mid- 
dle, and the other pieces round it. Gar- 
nish the dish with sprigs of brocoli. 

Brocoli may be dressed exactly the 
same as cauliflowers. 

BROILING.*—The amateur of a 
broil, who would secure @ chop or steak, 
cooked to perfection, is recommended to 
bend his way to the neighbourhood of 
nondun’s Royal Exchange, where the 
art and mystery of that summary pro- 
cess ofsavoury ceokery, has long attained 
the ultimatum of excellence. ‘here the 
fire burns with never ceasing brightness, 
the gridiron has not time to cool, and the 
impatient commercialist, to whom deme 
is property, is never doomed to wait. _ 

- Certain it is, that a chop or steak is 
not often eaten in perfection, at the table 
of a private family, though, there is no 
sufficient reason why it should be so ; for, 
as in boiling, so. in broiling, the difficul-, 


(83 ) 


BRO , 


ties of the art vanish, where attention is 
not wanting. The process is more sim- 


ple than that of any other method of 


dressing meat, the operation is quick, and 
the object under the hand and eye of the 
cook, trom the moment of its being put 
upon the gridiron, to that of its comple- 
tion. : 

The cook must prepare her fire for the 


Operation in due time; when ready, it . 


should be clear and bright—so free from 


black coal or smoke, that the chop or 


steak may come from the gridion with- 
out blemish or taintofsulphur or smoke. 

The best fuel for a. broil is composed 
of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is 
emitted from either, even on commenc- 
ing the fire ; and when well ignited, it is 
entirely free from it. Coke, added to a 
brisk coal fire, also burns bright, and is 


well suited’ for the operation; though — 


with care, a proper fire may be made of 
good sea-coal. 

Certain unqualified declaimers upon a 
broil, hold various opinions, touching the 
proper thickness of a steak; though at 
the most celebrated chop-houses, the 
cooks, unless expressly desired other- 
wise, confine the cut to somewhat more 
than half, yet less than the thickness of 
three-quarters of an inch. This adjust- 
ment of the proportion of the stratum of 
the delicious rump, is moreover accord- 


ing to the statute law ot the thricelearn- | | 


ed conclave, the Beef Steak Club; 
amongst whose members, from the epocl 
of its original founder, George Lambert, 
and his distinguished convives, to the 
present day, may be numbered the most 
accomplished gourmunds of this renown- 
ed land of good cheer. 

*..* The choicest steak, moreover, be 
it hereby known, on the authority of one 
of the best informed butchers in this 
great metropolis, who served the Beef 
Steak Club, the last season, is cut from 
the rump of a prime Norfolk-fed Scot ! 

There is this, amongst other disadvan- 
tages, in cutting too thick a steak, the 
outside is likely to be scorched to horny 
hardness, before the interior is half-cook- 
ed; hence, to say nothing of the misery 
of those who have not the advantage of 
capacious mouths, the disappointed epi- 
cure must either wait until it is put again 
upon the gridiron, or instead of eating it 
rare, be constrained to eat it raw. 

-No gridiron should be used, but those 
with fluted bars, which forming channels, 
the greater part of the fat, which other- 
wise falls into the fire and scorches the 
steak, is drawn off into a gutter at 
the bottom. The gridiron’ should be 
thoroughly heated, and the bars rubbed 
with beef or mutton suet, previously to 


i 





BRO 


putting on the steak, to prevent its being 
marked by, or adhering to, the bars. 

A vigilant eye should be kept upon the 
steak, to watch the moment for turning 
it, which is repeatedly done, during the 
process. Broiling-tongs of convenient 
size should be used, with which, by a 
little practice, the steak may be turned 
with ease and despatch. 

The cook must have her dish thorough- 
ly heated, to receive the broil when done, 

- and the cover hot, to place upon it in- 
stantly. Even when she has accomplish- 
ed her task, if the servant who is to take 
it to table loiters on the way, the steak 
will have lost its zest. 

A steak or chop, then, should be brisk- 
ly cooked, speedily conveyed to table, 
and served with dispatch. It may be 
made either a delectable treat to the ac- 
complished amateur of good'eating, or a 
dish scarcely endurable to the voracious 
appetite ofa famished hunter. 

RONDADE.—Take a piece of fine 
stock fish, let it soak for four and twenty 
hours in water to cleanse and soften ; 
then put it in a pot full of water on the fire, 
taking care to remove it when it begins 
to boil; melt some butter over a gentle 
fire, with some garlic, oil, and parsley. 
In the mean time, pick and cut the stock 
fish into small pieces, put it into the 
saucepan, and as it thickens, pour in a 
littie butter or milk. Keep stirring un- 
til the fish is melted to a ‘sort of cream. 
Pounded spinage may be used to make 
it green. 

BROOM Buds, to Pickle.-—Gather 
the buds before they grow yellow on the 
top, mix salt.and water until completely 
melted, then put in the buds ; stir them 
every day until they sink to the bottom, 
and then keep them closely covered. 

BROSE, (Scotch).—This is generally 
made of the liquor meat has been boiled 
in} of which put as much in a porringer 
as will mix half a pint of oatmeal into 
the consistence of hasty pudding, or a 
little thicker. Lastly, take a little of the 
fat that swims on the broth, and put it 
on the crowdie, and eat it like hasty-pud- 


ding. 

BROTH.—Put the mouse round of 
beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few 
shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and 
cover it close with a dish or coarse paste. 
Put a sufficient quantity of water to 

‘ oover the meat, and bake it till tender. 
When cold, letit stand in a cool place, 
covered close; flavour it as you please. 

Brorn, Fut.—Boil. part of a round 
and leg of beef with other meat, and take 
out the gravy and breth, and strain it 
through a napkin; then boil them a 
second time, and take out the broth 


( 84 ) 
again; keeping both these sorts apart. 


BRO 


The first will be good to put to capons, 


turkey-poults, veal, and other forced — 


meats, to be served in white soups. * 
Capon or veal broth ought to be used 
to soak young pigeons for bisque; and 
with the broth of the bisques, a cullis 
may be made for soup @ la reine, or @ la 
royale. The broth of farced meats will 
serve to make a cullis for the same sorts 
of meat; as young turkies, and ‘pullets, 
knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meats, 
that ought to be farced and parboiled. + 
The second sort of broth, is to be put 
into brown soups, of ducks, teal, rabbits, 
woud-pigeons, pheasants, &c. or of vege- 
tables, roots, &c.; and the brown ingre- 
dients which serve to thicken them, are 
to be mixed with the same broth. —— - 
Brotu, Fish.—Take tench, carp, pike 
and eels, prepare them for boiling, cut 
them in pieces, and put them into a 
kettle with water, salt, butter, an onion 
stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. 
then strain it through a napkin, and 
divide it into three lesser kettles. Into 
one of them put mushrooms, and strain 
them through a sieve, with a cullis, a 
Bey lemon, and some fried wheaten 
our, . nib A bn 
Brora, Fish.—Set water over the fire 
in a kettle proportioned to the quantity 
of broth to be made; put in the roots of 
parsley, parsnips, and whole onions, a 
faggot of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley 
and sorrel, and butter ; let the whole be 
well seasoned : then put in the bones and 
carcasses of the fish, the fiesh of which 
you have used for farces; and also the 


tripes of them, being thoroughly cleansed, 


with some tails of cray-fish, pounded in 
a mortar, and four or five spoonsful of 
the juice of onions. Let these all be 
well seasoned and boiled, then strained 
through a sieve; put it back into the 
kettle, and keep it hot, to simmer your 
soups, to boil your fish, and other things. 

Broru, Fish.—Cut onions, carrots and 
parsnips, into slices, then put them into 
a stewpan with a piece of butter, and 
set them stewing with juice of onions. 
When these are brown, put them into 
the stew-pan, and give them two or three 
turns; let the whole be moistened with 


a clear purée; then put in a bunch of: 


parsley, cives, sweet herbs, cloves, and 
some mushrooms. Tet all these boil to- 
gether for one hour; then strain them 


through a sieve into another kettle, and ~ 


use it to simmer fish-soup. Note, that 
carp is the best fish to make fish- broth.’ 
Brorn, Jelly.—Take a joint of mutton, 


a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts | 
of water; put these into an earthen pan, 


—_ _——— Pee 


Let it boil an hour and a half, ~ 


Bas> 
ia 54. 








BRU 


and boil them over a gentle fire till re- 
duced to half; then squeeze all together, 
and strain the liquor through a napkin. 
Brora, Meagre, for Soup with Herbs. 
Set on a kettle of water, put in two or 
three crusts of bread, and all sorts of 
good herbs; season with salr;: put in 
butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil 
it for an hour and a half: then strain it 
through a sieve, or napkin. This. will 
serve to make lettuce soup, asparagus 
soup, soup de santé, &c. with herbs. 
Brotu of Roots.— Take a quart of 
pease, boii them till tender ; bruise them 
toa mash, put them into a boiling vessel! 
that will hold four gallons of water ; 
hang it over the fire for an hour and a 
half; then take it off, and let it settle ; 
then take a lesser kettle, and strain the 
clear purée into it, through a sieve ; then 
put into it a bunch of carrots, half a 
bunch of-parsnips, and a bunch of pars- 
ley-roots, and six onions, a. bunch of pot- 


herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and 


season it with salt. Boil. all these to- 
gether; then add a bunch of chervil, 
another of sorrel, and two spoonsful of 
the juice of onions. This broth is of use 
to simmer all sorts of soups -made of 
vegetables. 

- Brora, Viite.—Boil a fovl, and when 
it is enough, take it up, and put it intoa 


dish ; then boil your cream with a blade: 


of mace, and thicken it with eggs; then 
put in the marrow of one beef bone, and 
take some of the broth, and mingle them 
together ; put to it a spoonful of white 
wine, and let it thicken on the fire; then 
put the fow! hot out of the broth, set it 
on achafing-dish of coals, and serve it. 

BROWN Colouring for Made Dishes. 


—Take four ounces of sugar, beat it fine ; 


put it into an iron frying-pan, or earthen 
pipkin ; set itover a clear fire, and when 
the sugar is melted, it will be frothy ; 
put it higher from the fire, until it isa 
fine brown; keep it stirring all the time, 
fill the pan up with red wine; take care 
that it does not boil over, add a little salt 
and lemon ; put a little cloves and mace, 
a shalot or two, boil it gently for ten mi- 
nutes; pour it ina basin till it is cold, 
then bottle it for use. 
BRUNOISE.—Cut some carrots, tur- 
nips, &c. into dice; if summer time, fry 
them in butter, if the winter, blanch 
them; when fried without having lost 
their original colour, moisten them with 
rich broth, seasoned witb salt and a little 
sugar, and let the whole boil for an hour. 
Green pease, asparagus tops, &c. may 
be added. Skim off the fat, and put in 
some crusts of bread, cut thin, and 
saoked previously in broth, and serve. 
. BRUNSWICK Tart.—Pare and core 


( 85 ) 


BUL 


withascoop, eight or ten golden pippins, 
put them into a stewpan with a gill of 
sweet wine and four ounces of sifted loaf 
sugar, a bit of lemon peel, a little cinna- 
mon and mace; stew them over a slow 


fire till the apples are tender; when 


cold, put them intoa very light, or vol-: 
au-vent paste, and pour round them some 
good custard. ; 

BRUSOLES.—Take some beef steaks, 
beat them and putthem into a stewpan 
with thin slices of bacon laid underneath 3 
strew over them chopped chibbols, par- 
sley and spices; then another layer of 
steaks, and strew them over as before ; 
then cover them al! with broad slices of 
bacon, and cover the stewpan close, and 
put fire underneath and attop. When 
they are ready, prepare a cullis with the 
carcasses of partridges; then take off all 
the fat, lay them in a dish, and pour the 
cullis over them. 

BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK.--Sprinkle 
some slices cf cold boiled salted beef, 
with pepper, fry them witha bit of butier 
of a lightbrown. Boil a cabbage, squeeze 
it quite dry and chop it small; take 
the beef out of the frying-pan, and lay 
the cabbage in it, sprinkle a little pepper 
and salt over ; keep the pan moving over 
the fire for a few minutes, Lay the cab- 
bage in the middle of the dish, and the 
beef round it. 

BUCKTHORN (Syrup of).—Gather 
the berries in the heat of the day, and 
set in an earthen vessel in the oven 3 
squeeze out the juice, and for each peck 
of berries puttwo pounds of Lisbon sugar, 
and boil thern together a quarter of an 
hour ; jet it cool, and then bottle it. 

Another way.—Take three quarts of 
the juice of clarified buckthorn berries, 
and four pounds of brown sugar ;.make 
them into a syrup over a gentle fire, and 
while warm, mix with it a drachm of the 
distilled oi! of cloves, dissolved on alump 
of sugar. 

The true buckthorn may be known by 
the number of its seeds, having four, the 
alder buckthorn has only two, and the 
cherry buckthorn one seed. The former 
is to be used. 

BULUACE Cheese (with the skins).— 

Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on 
a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water. 
Pour off some of the juice, and to every 
two pounds of fruit, weigh half a pound 
of sugar. Set the fruitina pan over the 
fire, let it boil quickly, till it begins to 
look dry; take out the stones, add the 
sugar, stir it in well and simmer itslowly 
for two hours; then boil it quickly half 
an hour. ‘The jam may then be poured 
into potting-pans. j 

Buuwace Giese (without the skins). 





BUN 


Bake or boil the fruit as above; but, 
instead of taking out the juice, beat the 
bullaces through a coarse sieve; then 
proceed as before, crack the stones and 
boil the kernels with the jam. - The su- 


gar must not be added until the juice has 


evaporated. 4 
‘ Buunaces (to preserve).— Prick the 
fruit, throw them into scalding water for 
a minute, take them clear from the water, 
strew over them powdered lump sugar ; 
the next day pour off the syrup, boil and 
skim it, pour it over the bullaces, and 
let it stand a day or two; boil the syrup 
again, put in the fruit and boil them to- 
gether (be careful not to mash them), 
and then put the preserve into jars; 
when cold, put brandy papers.. To a 
pound of fruitallow half a pound of sugar. 
~ BUNS, Common.—Rub four ounces of 
butter into two pounds of flour, four 
ounces of sugar, a few Jamaica peppers, 
and a few carraway seeds. Puta spoon- 
ful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, 
and as much good milk as will make the 
above into a light paste ; set it by the fire 


torise. They will bake quickly on tins i, 


you may add nutmeg. : 

Buns (Cross).—To the above mixture 
put one ounce and a halfof ground all- 
spice, cinnamon and mace, mixed, and 
when half proved, press the form of a 
cross with a tin mould in the centre, and 
finish as above. 3 

Buns (Plum).—To two pounds of the 
plain bun paste, put half a pound of cur- 
rants, a quarter of a pound of candied 
orange-peel, cut into small pieces, half 
a nutmeg grated, half an ounce of mixed 
spice, such as allspice, cinnamon, &c. 
Mould them into buns, jag them round 
the edges with a knife, and proceed as 
above. 

Buns (Richer).—Put four pounds of 
fine flour into a wooden bowl; seta 
sponge of it with a gill of yeast and a pint 
of warm milk; then mix with it one 
pound of sifted sugar, one pound of oiled 
tresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, 
and mace, a small quantity of each, 
pounded fine. _ Rol! the paste into buns, 
set them en a baking-plate rubbed with 
butter, put them in a moderate oven to 
prove; then wash them with a paste- 
brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of 
a good colour. 

Buns (Seed).—Take two pounds of 
plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce 
of carraway seeds; butter the insides of 
tart-pans, mould the dough into buns, 


and put one into each pan; set them to | 


risé in a warm place, and when suffi- 
ciently proved, ice them with the white 
of an egg beat to a froth, lay some pound- 
ed sugar over that, and dissolve it with 


( 86 ) 


BUS % 

water splashed from the icing-brush. 
Bake ten minutes. a gen ITE 
BUNTINGS, Poupeton of,—Having 
singed, blanched, and trussed the bunt- 
ings, lard them and fry them; put them 
into a stewpan with some good gravy or 
broth, and when tender, add  sweet- 
breads cut in pieces and fried; a few 
mushrooms and morels, and ten or a do- 
zen chesnuts blanched, season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg. Put into another 
pan,.@ quarter of a pound of butter, a 
handful of flour, two onions, and a pint 
of gravy, brown them, and then put in the 
birds, &c., and stew the whole together 
some time. Take it off and setit to cool 5 
line a saucepan (having buttered it well) 
with thin slices of bacon, cover them 
with forcemeat, half an inch thick, on 
this place the buntings, the breast down=. 
wards, with the restof the ragotit, taking 
away the bacon and onion, and squeeze 
the juice of a lemon; cover the whole 


with a layer, an inch thick, of forcemeat, . 


pee it close and sinooth it with a knife, 
rushit over with egg,strew bread-crumbs 
over, and bake itan hour. When wanted 
for table, loosen it from the saucepan with 
a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze 
the juice of an orange on it, and serve. - 
BURNET VINEGAR.—Fill a wide- 
mouthed bottle with fresh green burnet 
leaves, cover them with vinegar and let 
them stand for ten days. To make it 
very strong, strain the liquor, put it on 
fresh leaves to steep fourteen days 
longer. ; 
BUSTARDS, ¢o boil.—Take off the 
skin, but leave the rump.and legs whole, 
with the pinions, then mince the flesh. 
raw, with beef suet, season it with salt, 
peppér, nutmeg, and sweet herbs, shred 
small, and mix all together with the 
yolks of raw egys, the bottoms of boiled 
artichokes, roasted chesnuts, blanched 
marrow, and boiled skirrets, cut small 5 
then fill their skins with this farce, and 
prick them upon the back ; put them iato 
a deep dish, with strong broth, white 
wine, large mace, artichokes boiled and 
quartered, marrow, salt, barberries, 
grapes, and some of the meat made up 
into balls; cover your dish, let them 
stew, and when they are enough, serve 
them upon sippets, broth them, and gar- 
nish with slices of lemon, run it over 
with beaten butter, and garnish the dish 
with chesnuts, mace, and yolks of eggs. 
Bustrarp Pie.—Bone your bustard, 
parboil, and lard it, season with. salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, lay butter in the 
bottom of the pie, add a few beaten 
cloves, then lay in the fowl, strew more 
seasoning over it, lay on a sufficient 
quantity of butter, close it up, bake it, 


% 


ae en ee NN eee ee 


ee ee a ee eee ee 


Ee ee a ee 





BUT 


and when cold, fill it up with clarified 
butter. ¢ et 
UTTER.—The milk intended for 
butter should stand for twenty-four 
hours in the summer, and double that 
time in the winter season; skim the milk 
before the sun has warmed the dairy, as 
it should be kept during the whole of the 
see as cool as possible. If the 
churn can be placed in a tub of water it 
will give consistence to the butter. When 
the butter is come, pour oft the butter- 
milk, put the butter into a clean pan, 
pour water on it, and let it become firm 
before you work it; change the water, 
and beat it well with flat boards, chang- 
ing the water frequently. When the 
taste of the butter-milk is quite gone, 
and the water quite clean, work a little 
salt intoit, weigh and make it up into the 
proper forms, and put them in cold wa- 
ter into an earthenware pan with a cover. 
If not convenient to churn daily, the 
cream should be put into very clean pans 
until the next churning. Butter, how- 
ever, ought to be made twice a week, at 
least ; in hot weather it requires much 
more working than in cold, and not the 
slightest flavour of the butter-milk 
should be suffered to remain. Persons 
who have not naturally a cool hand, 
should never attempt to make butter. 

In winter, when the cows feed on tur- 
nips, the butter has an unpleasant fla- 
vour, to prevent wliich, when the milk 
is brought into the dairy, put a quart of 
boiling water to every two gallons of 
milk, and let it stand as usual for cream. 
A quarter of a pint of warm spring water, 
in which nitre has been dissolved, put 
to ten or twelve of new milk, will also 
counteract the above flavour. 

Butter Biscuits.*—Make a paste as 
for sweet, biscuits, and when you have 
put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces 
of melted butter, after it has cooled a 
little; mix them together a short time 
with a wooden spoon, and put it into 
buttered moulds, which must only be 
filled three parts, as the paste puffs up 
considerably, and would rise from the 
moulds, without care. 

Borrer (Black).*—Put half a pound 
of butter in a saucepan on the side of 
your stove, so that it may just heat suf- 
ficiently to colour it; do not skim it. 
{nto a large glass of vinegar put all sorts 
of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, salt, 
pepper, and asliced shalot, reduce this 
over the fire to one-fourth of the quan- 
tity, add it to the coloured butter, rack 
the whole off clear, and pass it through 
a fine sieve. Use as wanted. 

Burrer (Black).*—Fry a piece of but- 


ter in a frying-pan until it is quite black, . 


(87 ) 


BUT 


taking care not to burnit$ skim and 


| pour it over whatever you wish to serve 


it with; put your frying-pan again on the 
fire, and put a little vinegar into it with 
a little salt; when it boils, pour it over 
the butter. | 

Burter (Bilack).—Three pounds of 
fruit, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, 
and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, 
boiled till quite thick. It must waste to 
half the quantity. 

Buiter, Borders of.* —Take some 
Montpelier butter (either green or red) 
and spread it equally overtwo saucepan- 
lids, Jaying it about three-eighths of an 
inch in thickness; place the lids on 
pounded ice, and when the butter is con- 
gealed remove it with the blade of a 
knife, and lay it on a napkin; then, with 
a tin paste-cutter, or stamp of whatever 
figure you may choose, cut the butter, 
and place them in -borders according to 
your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp 
in cold water frequently, as that will 
enable you to keep the edges of thée’but- 
ter sharp. 

Butter (Borders, Common).*—If you 
have no Montpelier butter, take a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter, work it up. 
well with a knife, mixing with it either 
of the following colouring materials :— 
for Rose-colour, a little infusion of cars 
mine, or any vegetable red; Green, spi- 
nach juice; Yel/ow, an infusion of saf- 
fron; Violet, alittle Prussian blueadded 
to the red; Orange, the red and yellow 
joined together; the remainder of the 
operation is performed as above. 

Botrer (Burnt, Sauce).—Fry some 
butter ; when it begins to smoke, throw 
into it some chopped parsley ; when suf- 
ficiently done, add pepper, salt, and 
vinegar. Lei? 

Butter, Burnt, for Sauce.—Put some 
butter over the fire in a saucepan, and 
let it boil till it is as brown as you wish; 
then shake in flour, stirring it all the 
while; then use it for any sauce that is 
too thin. 

Burrer Cakes.—Beat a dish of butter 
with your hands to a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of 
dried flour, and twenty-four eggs, leave 
out half the whites, and then beat all 
together for an hour; when you are 
going to put it in the oven add a quarter 
of an ounce of mace and a nutmeg, 2 
little sack and brandy, seeds and cur- 
rants, if you think proper. 

Burtrer (to clarify).—Scrape off the 
outside of the butter you may require, 
and then put it into a stewpan by the 
side of a slow fire, where it must remain 
till the scum rises to the top and the 
milk cians ee the bottom ; carefully with 


a eo 


BUT 


a spoon take off the scum. When clear, 
it is fit for nse. 

- Burter (Delicious).*—Lay open three 
clean coarse cloths, one over the other; 
put a. pint of thick cream in the upper 
one, tie it up in them as close and tight 
as possible. Bury it in the earth in a 
dry place, eighteen inches deep, for 
twenty-four hours. The next morning 
put the cream into a cool earthen pan, 
and stie it up with a wooden spoon, for 
five minutes in the summer, and a quar- 
ter of an hour in the winter, when you 
will have a lump of cool, fresh, and 
most delicious butter, for the breakfast 
table. 

« Burter Drops.—Take three eggs 
leave out half the whites, half a poun 

of flour, half a pound of sugar, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, two spoonsful of 
rose-water, a little mace and seeds. 

Butter (Fairy).—Beat the yolks of 
two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large 
spoonful of orange-flower water, and two 
spoonsful of fine sugar; beat all to a fine 
paste, add an equal quantity of butter, 
fresh from the churn, and force all to- 
gether through a fine strainer, full of 
little holes, into a plate. 

Burrerep Loaves.—Beat up the yolks 
of a dozen eggs, with half of the whites, 
and. half a pint of yeast; strain them 
into a dish, season with salt, and a little 
powdered ginger, then make it into a 
high paste with flour; lay it in a warm 
cloth for a quarter of an hour; then 
make it up into little loaves, and bake 
them, melt a pound and a half of butter, 
with a quarter of a pint of white wine, 
and half a pound of sugar, and liquor 
them with it. 

Butter de Montpellier.* — Put the 
yolks of twelve hard eggs into a mortar, 
with a green ravigote scalded, (see Ravi- 
~gote), six anchovies, a handful of capers 
picked and washed, six pickled cucum- 
bers, some salt and pepper ; pound all 
these well together, until they form a 
paste; then add the yolks of two raw 
eggs, bruising them with the pestle, and 
then gradually pour upon, and mix with 
your ingredients, a pound and a half of 
oil of olives, and a little vinegar, until 
the whole becomes of the consistence of 
new butter, then pass it through asieve; 
if your butter is not sufficiently green, 
you must add a little spinach juice, 
Butter de Montpellier is commonly used 
for cold entrées ; and a little garlic may 
be added, according to taste. 

Burrer (Preserved), for Winter Use. 
—Take two parts of the best common 
salt, one part of good loaf- sugar, and one 

art saltpetre; beat them well together. 

o sixteen ounces of butter, thoroughly 


( 88 ) 
‘cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of 


CAB 


the above composition ; work it well, and 
ae it into pots, when quite firm and 
cold. wie NA She 
Butrer(Provencale), Sauce.*—Pound 
a few cloves of garlic, pass them through 
a double-hair sieve into an earthenware 
pan ; pour some good olive-oil ; stir them 
together, until they form a lump like 
butter. Saltitto yourtaste. = 9 
Burrer (to roast).—Lay a pound of 
butter in salt and water for two or three 
hours; put it on a spit, and rub it all 
over with crumbs of bread, mixed with 
grated nutmeg; put it to the fire, and as 
it roasts, baste it with the yolks of two 
eggs, and crumbs of bread ; stew a pint 
of oysters in their own liquor, and when 
the bread has completely imbibed all the 
gravy, brown it, and lay it in a dish, with 
the stewed oysters under it. eet: 
Burtrer Sauce.—Put nearly half a 
pound of good fresh butter into a sauce- 
pan, with a quart of sauce touwrnée, pro- 
perly reduced ; stir till they are well 
mixed together. at 
Borrer (Thickened).* — Melt. what 
quantity of butter you may require ; be 


ny A 
As ¥ a? 


careful not to colour it; beat up the 


yolks of eggs, and then pour them to 
the butter, beating them all the while. 
Put them on the fire; adda little lemon- 
juice. 
Butrer and Sweet Herbs.*—Take 
some chervil, half the quantity of pim- 
pernel, chives, tarragon, and cress ; scald 
and chop the whole very small, then mix 
it with some good fresh butter. 


C 


CABBAGES 4 I’ Allemande.— Take 
some very small headed eabbages, and, 
after blanching, cut them up rather small, 
and turn them a few times over the fire 
in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity 
of melted butter or lard; when nearly 
done, moisten with a little gravy or 
jelly-broth, and serve with bacon or sau- 
gages, ie 

CaBBaceE and Bacon.*—Blanch a cab- 
bage, cut it in quarters, and put it into 
a stewpan, with a piece of streaked 
bacon; season it, moisten with water, 
and give it a boil, then let it stew over 


-a moderate fire; when done, dress the 


cabbage on a dish, with the bacon over 
it; reduce the liquor, and add to ita 
little butter, worked with some flour, 
a then serve it over the bacon and cab- 

age, y r 1 ie ie. ’ 7 

Cappace (fo boil).—Having cut your 
cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of 
water, with a handful of salt.. When it 
is tender, drain it on a sieve, but never 


~~ —S— P 


———. 


it Ci a ee 


icin 


tlre 





CAB ( 89) CAB 


press it. Savoys and greens are boiled 
in the same manner ; but they should al- 
ways be boiled by themselves. 

_ You may, if you please, chop it, and 
heat it with a piece of butter, pepper, 
and salt. 

Canpages ( Botled and Stewed).—Cab- 
bages are generally simply tied round, 
and boiled. If you wish to stew them, 
cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter 
of an hour, with a piece of streaked bacon, 
cut into bits, and the rind on. After- 
wards change it in cold water; squeeze 
it well, and tie each quarter, that it may 
keep its form. Then stew it with some 
stock, saJt, and pepper, a bunch of pars- 
ley and green onions, cloves, a little nut- 
meg, two or three roots, and the meat 
you intend to serve with it; when both 
the meat and cabbage are done, wipe off 
the grease, and dish it for table, the 
streaked bacon on it, and serve with a 
sauce of good cullis, agreeably seasoned. 
The different parts of meat that cabbages 
are best boiled with are, veal tendons, 
breast of beef, a bit of round of beef, 
ee chitterlings, a shoulder of mutton 

med and tied into a round, or a trussed 
capon. Whatever meat the cabbage is 
stewed witt,should be previously boiled 
a few minutéS in water, to take off the 


m. 

Capsace @ la Bourgeoise.*—Take a 
whole cabbage, boil it during a quarter 
of an hour, and then shift it into cold 
water; squeeze it, taking care not to 
break the leaves, which you must take 
off one by one, spreading over each a 
little force-meat, made like that for 
stuffed duck. Put the leaves again one 
over the other, that they may appear as 
if the cabbage was entire; secure them 
thus with pack-thread, and stew them @ 
da braise in the same manner as neat’s 
tongue, seasoning to your taste. When 
the cabbage is done, press it lightly ina 
linen cloth, to take off the fat; cut it in 
two, and put it ona dish, pouring over 
it a good cullis. 

Caprace @ la Bourgeoise.—Take out 
the heart of some large cabbages, parboil 
them. and then stuif the centre of the 
cabbage, between each leaf, with the 
following stuffing : mince the white part 
of the poultry, or game with some bacon 


and veal; if you have no poultry, the 
veal is sufficient ; thicken with the yolks ‘ 


of some eggs; tie up the cabbage that 
none of the stuffing may fall out, and 


boil it in some stock, with the saucepan- | 


lic on. ‘ 
Casspace & la Créme.*—Wash your 


cabbage very clean; boil it in water, | 
with 2 little salt,then leave it to drain ° 


and cool; afterwards cut it in middling 





‘sized pieces, and brown them in butter. 


adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg 5 
moisten with cream, then reduce it over 


a gentle fire, till it becomes of a very 


thick consistence. in 
CaBpBacE @ la Créme.—Wash and boil. 


the cabbage in water with a handful of 


salt; when soft, take it out, squeeze it, 
and put it in a stew-pan, with some but- 
ter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a spoon- 
ful of flour, moistening with a little 
cream. . 
Cappace Cream.— Put a gallon 4 
milk over the fire, and skim it as lot 
as any froth rises, then empty it into 
eight or ten bowls, as fast as you can 
without making it froth; then set them 
in a place where the wind may blow 
upon them; when the milk is rather 
cooled, gather off the cream with your 
hands, crumple it together and lay it on 
a plate ; when you have laid four or five 
layings, one upon another, then dip a 
feather "in rose-water and musk, and 
stroke it over it; then sift some fine 
sugar and grated nutmeg over it, and lay 
on three or four layers more; then set 
all the milk on the fire to boil again, 
and when it rises up, distribute it as you 
did before in your bowls, and use it in 
the like manner; this do for four or five 
times, laying on your cream as before, 


one upon another, till it is as high and as . 


round as a cabbage. Let one of the 
bowls stand, because it will be thickest 
and most crumpled, and lay on that last 
on the top of all; strew loaf sugar 
pounded over the whole, and serve. __ 

CaBBAGE @ la Flamande.*—Cut a cab- 
bage into quarters, parboil, and then 
change it into cold water; squeeze it, 
take out the heart, and tie it round; then 
stew it witha piece of butter, some good 
stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of 
herbs, and a little salt and coarse pep- 
per ; when almost done, putin some vine- 
gar; and when the whole is sufficiently 
cooked, take a crust of bread, rather 
larger than the palm of your hand, fry it 
in butter; and put it in the bottom of the 
dish, upon which place the cabbage and 
sausages, with the onions round, taking 
care that the fat be well dried off the 
whole; then skim the sauce, add a little 
cullis to it, and serve it, neither too 
thick, nor too thin, pour over the 
whole. ; 

CapBpacEs (to Keep).—Small'close cab- 
bages, laid on a stone floor before the 
frost sets in, will blanch, and be very 
fine after many weeks keeping. 

CassBace and Milk Soup.—Boil a large 
white-hearted cabbage in water; when 
half done, put to it a quarter of a pound 
of butter, scart ta to your taste; when 


CAB (90) 


it is well boiled, take out three parts of 
the water, substituting the same quan- 
tity of boiling milk; pour it into the 
tureen after it has once boiled up, put- 
ting the cabbage also into the tureen 
whole; serve quick. 


CaBBpaGe(White, Pickled).*—Slice your. 


cabbage thin; then lay it in salt for 
twenty-four hours; strain it very dry, 
then put it in a stone jar; with allspice, 
mace and ginger; beil your vinegar, 
and pour it on boiling hot; tie it very 
close, repeat the vinegar three times, 
and it will be fit for use. 

_Cappace Soup a la Provengale.—Boil 
different sorts of vegetables together, 
including half a peck of peas, and a cab- 
bage blanched, cut in quarters, and tied 
with packthread. Add a wine glass full 
of the best oil. When the vegetablesare 
beiled, and your broth properly salted, 
strain it, then leave it on to stew, serving 
it up, garnished with cabbages. 

CapBace and Cheese Soup & la ‘Proven- 
¢ale.—Cut a large cabbage into quarters, 
and after blanching,boil itin water; when 
three parts done add a quarter ofa pound 
of butter and the requisite seasoning. 
Grate half a pound of gruyére, or par- 
mesan cheese. Prepare, also, some 
very thin slices of bread, and, two hours 
before dinner, make the soup in the fol- 
lowing manner. Take a _ metal, or 
earthenware tureen that will stand the 
fire, and that can be used at table} first, 
put into it a layer of grated cheese, then 
one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled 
and dried on a cloth; next, some of the 
slices of bread, then those of cheese, 
commencing again with the cabbage, &c. 
alternately, the upper layer of all. being 
of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the 
tureen within two fingers’ width of the 
top, pour on its contents about half a 
pint of the water in which the cabbages 
{after being blanched) were boiled, 
making the cabbage broth penetrate to 
the bottom of the tureen, by piercing its 
contents in several places with a knife; 
then place the tureen on a stove of mo- 
derate heat, letting the soup simmer, 
without stirring, for more than an hour, 
When the soup is ready for table, the 
cabbage broth will have been ail ab- 
sorbed ; some persons, consequently, add 
more hot broth to it at the moment of 
serving; but the true method of serving 
it @ la Proveng¢ale,is to send it up dry, 
mane with it, at table, only the finest 
oil, 

Cappace Pudding.—Take two pounds 
of beef-suet, as much of the lean part of 
a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and 
scald it, then bruise the suet, veal and 
cabbage together ina marble mortar ; 


* 
CAB 
season them with mace, nutmeg, ginger, 
a little pepper and salt; some green 
gooseberries, grapes, or barberries ;—in. 
winter, some. verjuice ; mix then all weil 
together, with the “yolks -of four or five 


eggs, well beat; wrap up all together in: 


a green cabbage leaf, tie it ina cloth; an 
hour will boilit. ‘sei = paige 

Purple Cabbage to Pickle.—Take two 
cauliflowers, two: red cabbages, half a 
peck of kidney beans, six sticks with six 


cloves of garlic on. each stick ; wash all 


well, give them one. boil up, then strain 
them in a sieve, and. lay. them leaf by 
leaf wpon a large table, and salt them 
with bay salt; then lay them to dry in 
the sun, or in a slow oven, until as dry 
as cork. rig hd ey, Ae Leaiuaa’ 

Caspsce Ragott.*—Take the half of 
a middling sized cabbage, boil it for balf 
an hour, and then change it-in cold 
water, squeeze it well, and take out the 
heart 3; eut the cabbage into small pieces, 
and putitin astew-pan witha slice of 
good butter; turn it a few times over 
the fire, and shake in some flour; put in 
sufficient gravy to give colour to the ra- 
goiit ; let it boil over a slow fire till the 
cabbage is done, and reduced to a thick 


sauce ; season it with oe pep-. 


per, and a little grated n eg, serve 
under any meat youthink proper. — 
CaBBaGe Ragotit.—Scald one cabbage 
cut into quarters, (savoys, are best); 
drain the water quite out, tie them with 
packthread, and braze in a good braze3 
serve with a fine thick cullis sauce, 
pretty high of pepper. . at 
CapBace Ragotit.—Divide a. cabbage 
inthe middle, blanch it in hot water, 
squeeze it, tie it with packthread, and 
put it into a stew-pan, and stew it. ¢@ /a 
braize; when it is stewed, drain it, un- 
tie it, cut it in little slices into a sauce- 
pan, and let it simmer with some cullis 
of veal, and ham: afterwards put insome 
cullis of veal and ham to thicken it, and 
serve it with roasted, boiled, or stewed 
meat. , 
CaBBace Red.*—Boil your cabbage 
for a short time, then take out the heart, 
and cut it into pieces; then put it into 
astew-pan with a piece of butter, some 
salt and pepper, and let it stew over a 
moderate fire, stirring it very frequently 


whilst dressing, to mix it well with the 


butter. ; biel 3 . 
Capsacrs (Red).—They are. mostly 


| stewed to eat with ham, bacon, orsmoked 


sausages, though sometimes without any 
meat ; they are very strong eating, and 
should be first scalded, then stewed with 
butter, pepper, salt, and cloves; and 
vinegar added to it just before serving : 
they are reckoned wholesome in veal 














CAB 


broth fer consumptions ;. but are most 
proper for pickling, as gherkins, &c.. 

» CapBaceE (Red) a la Flamande.*—Take 
two red cabbages, cut them in quarters; 
take out the hearts, and cut them in 
pieces, blanch them, then put them into 
cold water, after which put them intoa 
stew-pan with a piece of butter, a bay 
leaf, an onion stuck with cloves, some 
salt and pepper ; stir them about, so that 
the cabbage may be well mixed with the 
butter; place your stew-pan on the fire, 
put fire upon the lid of the stew-pan ; 
and let it simmer for three or four hours; 
turn the cabbage frequently, and be 
careful not to let it burn; when the cab- 
bage is done, take out the bay leaf and 
the onion ; add a little more butter ; and 
serve hot. : 

Caspace (Red) Pickled.*—Take about 
* a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, and 
put into a little bag, and boil it with as 
much vinegar as you think sufficient for 
the cabbage, with a little salt and bay 
salt; when it boils, scald the cabbage 


with it, then boil it up again, and put a | 


little ginger and pepper into it; then 
put it in something to cool; when cold, 
put the cabbage into jars, and put the 
pickle upon it, and tie it down. 

CarsBacEe(Red) Stewed.—Slice a small, 
or haifa large, red cabbage; wash, and 
put it into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, 
no water but what hangs about it, anda 
piece of butter. Stew till quite tender ; 
and when going to serve, add two or 
three spoonsful of vinegar, and give one 
boil over the fire. Serve it for cold 
meat, or with sausages on it. 

CapBace (Red) Stewed.—Shred the 
cabbage; wash it, and put it over a slow 
fire, with slices Of onion, pepper, and 
salt, and a little plain gravy. When 
quite tender, and a few minutes before 
serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with 
flour, and two or three spoonsful of vine- 
gar, and. boil up. 

Caspace (Red) Stewed.—Cut the cab- 
bage very thin; and put it into the stew- 
pan, with a small slice of ham, and half 
an ounce of butter at the bottom, halfa 
pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let 
it stew covered three hours. When it 
is very tender, add a little more broth, 
salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of 
pounded sugar. Mix these well, and 
boil them all till the liquor is wasted : 
then put it into the dish, and lay fried 
sausages on it. 

CagpaGE (Red) Stewed.—Take a fine 
red cabbage, cut it into thin slices cross- 
ways, and then into small bits; put them 
in a stewpan, with a pint of rich gravy, 
a pound of sausages, and three or four 
slices of ham or bacon; cover the stew- 


( 91 ) 


‘CAB 


pan down close; set it on a moderate 


| fire, let it stand half an hour, then un- 


cover it; skim off the fat, shake in 
some flour, put in two spoonsful of vine- 
> gar, and cover it up; set it on again, and 
let 1t stew four or five minutes longer, 
take out the sausages, and pour the rest 
over it. 
- Caspace (Red) Syrup of.—Cut and 
wash a large red cabbage, put it into a 
stewpan and boil itia water three or four 
hours, till there remains no more thaa 
a pint of liquor; put the cabbage 
into a sieve, squeezing it till you have ex- 
pressed all the juice; let it settle, and 
our it off clear; then put a pound of 
Narbonne honey into a saucepan, with a 
glass of water; let it boil, skimming it 
often ; when the honey is very clear put 
it in the cabbage juice, and boil them 
together till of the consistence of syrup, 
like allothers. . 

CasBacE Salad.—Boil a Savoy cabbage 
in water; drain, and dress it as you 
would a salad, with salt, pepper, some 
Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or 
two anchovies, and a few capers: it may 
be served either hot or cold. 

CaBBAGE Sowp.—Put into your pot a 
few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham; 
let it catch a little, then add weak broth 
or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage 
tied and well scalded,a bit of pickled pork, 
a bay-leaf or mignionette. If you would 
garnish this soup with any wild fowl, boil 
it in the same pot, and garnish the dish 
with the cabbage and the pickled pork, 
cut in pieces. ‘ 

CABBAGE Soup.—Cut yourcabbage into 
four parts ; then let them be about three- 
quarters enough boiled in water; then 
take them up and squeeze them dry from 
the water; then place them in a large 
brass pan or dish, so that there may be 
room betwixt each piece of cabbage, to 
take up soup with a large spoon, then let 
them boil with as much gravy or stock as 
willcoverthem. Let them stew for two 
hours before dinner, then put a quarter 
of a pound of butter,.and a handful of 
flour, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, 
and keep it stirring; add two onions 
minced, and stir it again; then add a 
quart of veal gravy, boil it a little, and 
pour it all over the cabbage. If you 
choose, you may force pigeons, with good 
forced meat made of veal, fry them, and 
then stew them with the cabbage, put- 
ting in with them a little bacon, stuck 
with cloves. When it has stewed enough, 
take off the fat, soak bread in your dish 
with gravy or stock, place your fowl in 
the middle, and the cabbage all round, 
Garnish the dish with slices of bacon, and 
a little cabbage between each slice. 


«ih 


a “eS 








* 
CAB 


Cansace Soup.—Boil some rashers of 
streaked bacon about two hours, in the 
quantity of water you require for soup; 
then add some cabbages previously 
blanched, and if you like, somesausages ; 
pepper and salt the soup, but take careto 
put very little salt,on accountof the bacon. 
Skim well before you put in the cab- 
bages. This receipt is the same in most 
of the French cookery books, except that 
some tell you, that when the cabbage 
and bacon are done, you should soak a 
few slices of bread in some of the broth, 
and then mix them with the whole soup. 

CapBace Soup, with Carrots and 
Onions.*—Line a stewpan with bards of 
bacon, then blanch a cabbage in boiling 
water, let it drain, then cut it into quar- 
ters, and put it into the stewpan, with 
some carrots and onions cut in slices, 
moisten with soup meagre; when suffi- 
ciently done, dress it on a dish, and 
serve. ° 

CaBBacs (German) Soup.—Cut in small 
pieces and wash the heart of a fine cab- 
bage, and set it over a slow fire in a little 
butter.- When the pieces begin to feel 
tender, and the butter is a littie reduced, 
add some stock and veal gravy, in equal 
quantities; skim carefully, and when the 
soup has become of a brown colour, 
throw in little round and thin pieces of 
bread 5 season to your taste, and serve. 

CABBAGE Stewed.—Cut a cabbage into 
slips, blanch and drain them dry, and 
stew them in a stewpan, with a bit of 
fresh butter. pepper, salt, an onion, some 
vinegar, half a pint of veal broth, and a 
little allspice, tied in a cloth, till done, 
and the liquor nearly reduced, and then 
take the spice and onion out, and serve 
ite 
CaBBaGe Sfewed.*—Blanch two mid- 
dling sized cabbages in water with a 
little salt; when they have been twenty 
minutes in the boiling water, take them 
out and put them into cold water, then 
let them drain; after this take out their 
hearts; then cut very small halfa pound of 
veal, and half a pound of bacon: some 
salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, 
mace, and allspice, all well pounded; then 
add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, and 
mix the whole well. together, with the 
veal and bacon; put some of this stuffing 
into each of your cabbages, (in the place 
of the hearts), and tie them up with 
packthread. Line a stewpan with slices 
of bacon, and slices of veal, a little ham, 
three carrots, four onions, a little thyme, 
a bay leaf, and two cloves; then put in 
the cabbages, cover them with bacon, 
and moisten with stock, adding a little 
salt and pepper; let the whole sim- 
mer for an hour and a half, then ‘let 


( 52) 


sauce allover them. If you | 
pen to have any Spanish sauce ready, 








éaK 


them drain on a napkin, and extract the 
gravy from them by gently pressing. 


them} then untie and arrange them on a 


dish; glaze them, and serve a Spanish 
do not hap- 


make alight rows, and moisten it wi 


the liquor in which your cabbages were 
dressed, and strain it through a silk 


sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. 


Cappace Stewed a I’ Espagnole.—Take 
six cabbages and boil them well; when 
done, drain them ona sieve, tie each 
separately with packthread, and lay them 
between bards of fat bacon with some 
good braise, to stew very gently: take 
them out of the braise, and lay them in 
a line upon a clean cloth; cut off the 
packthread, and roll the cabbages tight 


up in the cloth for a minute or two; then. 


open the cloth and cut the cabbages im 


pieces, about six inches in length, and lay 


them on the dish; have a sauce @ /’)Es- 
pagnole ready, with a bit of butter mixed 
in it, and one squeeze of lemon; this 


- sauce when very hot pour over the cab-. 


bages, and serve it to table. Cabbage 
stewed in this way is very good, and 
proper to garnish stewed beef ofany kind ; 
sometimes with other vegetables inter- 
mixed. SPA E OS 
Cagpace Stuffed—Blanch a large Sa- 
voy cabbage, and then put between its 
leaves some forcemeat, made of any cold 
meat you have in the house, adding an 
equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, 
salt, chopped parsley, and a small hand- 
ful of boiled rice. When you have put 
into the cabbage as much stuffing as it 
will contain, tie it well up with pack- 
thread. Next, make a rouaw with some 


butter, flour, and stock, properly season- 


ed; heat up the cabbage in this vouw, 
being careful that it does not break. 
Keep adding stock from time to time, so 
that the cabbage may be always covered. 
When it is perfectly done, serve it in a 
deep Gish in its soup. ae 


CABBAGE en Surprise.*—Take a good 


whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a 
quarter of an hour, put it into cold water, 
and squeeze it, taking care not to break 


‘the leaves; then carefully take out the 


heart, and supply the place with parboil- 
ed chesnuts and sausages, replacing the 
leaves in such a manner as to conceal 
what is within; tie the cabbage with pack- 
thread, and stew it with some stock, a 
little salt, and coarse pepper, roots, 
onions, and a bunch of herbs. hen 
done, drain, and serve with a good butter 
sauce. 

CAKE, Anglo-Franeais.* — Prepare 
your ingredients the same as described in 


| the receipt for Cake, a la Parisienne 3 


* 








CAK 


then add a quarter of a pound of dry cur- 
rante, well washed, four ounces of mus- 
cadel raisins, one ounce of preserved 
-cedrat, cut into small strips, one ounce 
of candied orange, cut in the same man- 
-ner, and a glass of Spanish wine, ora 
glass of rum; mix the whole well toge- 
ther, and finish the same as for Cake 
@ la Parisienne, and let it bake for 
three hours. 

_ This cake is very good eaten cold, but 
18 much nicer cut into rather thin slices, 
and just browned by broiling, then placed 
‘upon a dish and masked all over with 
powdered sugar. 

CakeE (Bolar).*—One pound of flour 
dried in a slow oven, two spoonsful of 
yeast, some almond milk, and water to 
mix for a sponge; when raised, beat up 
three quarters of a pound of clarified 
_ butter, three eggs, and three quarters of 
a pound of sugar, well beaten till the 
spvon comes clean away; then add cin- 
namon ‘powder, candied orange and 
lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well 
buttered ; keep it before the fire till put 
in the oven. 

- Cake (Bolar).*—When the sponge is 
beat, as for the last, instead of mixing 
the sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and 
cinnamon. ; 

Caxe( Dutch Bolar).*—Done,as above, 
without sugar; then prick holes witha 
sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot 
‘peur in three quarters of a pound of cla- 
rified sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or 
orange-flower. Almonds and sweetmeats 
are previously put in the cake.Ornament 
‘your cake with harlequin sugar-plums. 
. This was a favourite cake of the late 
Queen Charlette. 

Caxe de Bourneville.— Work about 
half a pone of flour, with five or six 
eggs whole, some fine chopped lemon- 
peel, a few drops of orange-flower water, 
a spoonful of plain water, and a little 
salt; then let it rest ahout an hour; you 
will put about as much butter as paste, 
and work it afterwards well together} 
bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish 
as you think proper, with sugar, non- 
pareils, or colours. 

. Caxe (Bread, anit (Rea the 
ay of a quertern loaf from the 

ough when making white bread, and 
knead well into it two ounces of butter, 
two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- 
rants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful 
of good milk. 

_ By the addition of an ounce of butter, 
or sugar, or an egg or two, you may 
make the cake better. A tea-cupful of 
raw cream improves it much. It is best 
to bake it ina pan, rather than as a loaf, 
the outside being less hard, 


( 93 ) 


CAK ¥ 


Cake (Breakfast).—Rub a pound and 
a half of butter into half a peck of flour, 
three pounds of currants, half a pound 
of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, 
cinnamon, and nutmeg together, a little 
salt, a pint and a half of warmed cream 
or milk, a quarter of a pint of brandy, 
five eggs, a pint of good ale yeast; mix 
it well together; bake it in a moderate 
oven. This cake will keep good for a 
quarter of a year. ) 

Cake (Bride).—Take four pounds of 
fine flour well dried, tour pounds of fresh 
butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded 
and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs; 
to every pound of flour put eight eggs 5 
wash and pick four pounds of currants, 
and dry them before the fire; blancha> 
pound of sweet almonds, and cut them 
lengthways, very thin, a pound of citron, 
a pound of candied orange, a pound of 
candied lemon, and halfa pint of brandy 3 
first work the butter with your hand to 
a cream, then beat in your’sugar a quar- 
ter of an hour; beat the whites of your 
eggs to avery strong froth; mix them 
with your sugar and butter; beat the 
yolks half an hour, at least, and mix 
them with your cake ; then put in your 
flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keep beating 
it till the oven is ready; put in your 
brandy, and beat the currants and al- 
monds lightly in; tie three sheets of 
paper round the bottom of your hoops to 
keep it from running out; rub it well 
with butter, put in your cake, and the 
sweetmeats in three lays, with cake be- 
tween every lay; after itis risen and co- 
loured, cover it with paper before your 
oven is stopped up; it will take three 
hours baking. 

Cake, @ la Brie.*—Take some rich 
Brie cheese, knead it witha pint and half 
of flour, three quarters of a pound of 
butter, anda little salt; moisten it with 
five or sixeggs beaten up; when it is 
well kneaded, let it stand ior an hour 3 
then form your cake and bakeas usual. 
~ Cake (Chantilly, or Cake Trifle).— 
Bake a rice cake in a mould; when cold, 
cut it round, about two inches from the 
edge witha sharp knife, taking care not 
to perforate the bottom. Put ina thick 
custard, and some tea-spoonsful of rasp- 
berry jam, and then put on a high whip. 

Cake de Compiegne.—The same paste 
as for brioches, only keep it more liquid 
with some hot milk; putin a few stoned 
raisins and currants. This cake is made 
in a mould well trimmed with butter. 

Cakes (Dry).—Rub one pound of but- 
ter into one pound of flour, one pound of 
sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked 
all night in orange-flower or rose water); 








CAK. 


whip to snow the whites of eight eggs, 
beat the yolks of six with a littlé brandy, 
mix this very well; butter the pans, only 
half fill them ; they are baked in half an 
hour ; abrisk, nct ascorching oven ; they 
will keep half a year. If agreeable, make 
them with currants, put three quarters 
of a pound. 


Cakes (Dutch).—Take five pounds of. 


flour, two ounces of carraway-seeds, half 
a pound of sugar, and something more 
thana pint of milk; put into it three 
quarters of a pound of butter; then make 
a hole in the middle of the flour, and put 
ina pint of good ale yeast; pour in the 
butter and milk, and make these into a 
pe letting it stand a quarter of an 

our before the fire to rise; then mould 
and roll it into cakes, pretty thin; prick 
them all over, or they will blister, and 
bake them a quarter of an hour. 

Cake (Family).—Take rice and wheat 

flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and 
whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump 
sugar, pounded and sifted, and half an 
ounce of carraway-seeds. Having beaten 
this.one hour, bake it for the same time 
ina quick oven. This is a very light 
cake, and is very proper for young peo- 
ple and delicate stomachs. 
- Cake (Fashion).—Mix a handful of 
flour with a pint of good cream, halfa 
pound of beef suet, melted and sifted, a 
quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, half 
a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, 
dried flowers of orange, a glass of brandy, 
a@ little coriander, and salt; bake it as all 
other cakes, about an hour, and glaze or 
garnish it. 

Cakes (made of Flowers).—Boil double 
refined sugar to a candy height, and strew 
in your, flowers and let them boil once 
up; then, with your hand) lightly strew 
in a little double refinedsugar sifted, and 
put it directly into little pans made of 
card, and pricked full of holes at the 
bottom; you must set the pans on a 
cushion, and when they are cold, take 
them out. 

- Cake, en Fourrés.* — Make a puff- 
paste, form it into two equal parts the 
size of the dish in which you mean to 
place your cake, and the thickness of two 
crowns each ; then take one of the cakes 
and put upon it some sweetmeats, leav- 
ing about an inch, asa border, all round; 
wet it with water and place the other 
cake upon it, draw up the edges care- 
fully with your fingers; gild them with 
the yolk of egg, and bake them in an 
oven. - 

~ Cake, a la Francaise.*—Take a quart 
of sifted flour, make a sponge, add to it 
one ounce of salt, two ounces of sugar, 
a pound and a half of butter«and twelve 


(94) 





CAK 

eggs; mix the whole well together, work 
up your paste; if it is too stiff, moisten it 
with a little milk; then leave it to stand 
for half an hour, then add to it half a 


pound of butter, and give it four turns, 


the same as puff-paste; put your cake 
into a mould, lay it very thick, cut the 
edges in form of a lozenge, gild it, put it 
upon a baking-tin, ornament it, and let 
it bake for an hour and a half in a mo- 
derate oven. isthe geal afpiegs 

Cakes (Gum).— Take gum-dragon, 
let it lie all night in rose-water, till it is 
dissolved; have double-refined sugar, 
beaten and seered, and mix your gum 


and sugar together; make it up intoa 


paste, then roll some up plain, and some 
with herbs and flowers; all the paste 


must be kept separately, the herbs and. 
flowers must be beat small before you 
make them into paste; but you may - 


use the juice of the flowers and herbs 
only; sweet marjoram, red roses, mari- 


golds, clove, gilliflowers, and blue-bottle 


berries, all clipped from the white ; when 
you have made all your colours ready, 
have to every one a little rolling-pin an 

a knife, or else the colours will mix; first 


lay a white, and then a colour, then a 


white again, for two colours will not do 
well; so roll them up, and cut them the 
bigness of a sixpence, but in what form 
you please, minding that they are rolled 
very thin. pirat nar be: twos ss 

Cakes (Heart).—With your hand work 
a pound of butter to a cream, then put to 
it twelve eggs, with only six of the whites 
well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a 
pourid of sifted sugar, four spoonsful of 
good brandy, and a pound of currants 
washed and dried before the fire. As 
the pans are filled, put in two ounces of 
candied orange and citron, and continue 
beating the cake till you put it into the 
oven. This quantity will be sufficient 
to fill three dozen of middling-sized 


pans. 

Caxes (Honxeycom)).—Boil your sugar 
to a candy height; then put in your 
flowers, which must be cut; have little 
papers with four corners ready; drop 
some of your candy on the papers, take 
them off when ready, and if they are 


rightly done, they will look full of oles 


like honeycombs. 

Caxes( Hyde Park).—Take two pounds 
of flour, four ounces of common sugar, 
and half-an ounce of carraway-seeds 
pounded; then set a sponge wit half a 
gill of yeast atid a little warm milk; 


when it works, take some boiling milk, — 


add to it five ounces of fresh butter, mix 
it up light, and let it lie some time ; then 
roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. 


ca 








co a So 





: 
. 
. 
| 





CAK 


- Cazes (Liquorice.)—Take hyssop and 
red rose-water, of each half a pint, half 
a pound of green liquorice, the outside 
scraped off, and then beat with a pestle ; 
put toit half a pound of aniseeds, an 
steep it all night in the water; boil it 
with a gentle fire till the taste is well 
out of the liquorice ; strain it, put to it 
three pounds of liquorice powder, and 
set it on a gentle fire till it is come to 
the thickness of cream; take it off, and 
put to it half a pound of white sugar 
candy seered very fine; beat this well 
together for at least three hours, and 
never suffer it to stand still; as you 
beat it, you must strew in double-refined 
sugar finely seered, at least three pounds; 
half an hour before it is finished, put in 
half a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in 
orange-flower water: when it is very 
white then it is beat enough; roll it up 
with white sugar ; and if you want it per- 
fumed, put in a pastil or two. 
_ Cages (Little).* — To a pound of flour 
dried, add a pound of lump sugar rolled 
very fine, the peel of two !emons chopped 
small, and five ounces of butter; mix 
them thoroughly ; let it stand some time 
before the fire, then add three eggs well 
beaten, the whites separately, pick them 
with a fork into small jumps, and bake 
them ona tin: this quantity will make 
about eighty cakes. Instead of lemon- 
peel you may, if you please, add sixty 
bitter almonds blanched and beaten with- 
white of egg until they are quite fine. 
Cakes (Little Short).— Rub into a 
pound of dried flour four ounces of but- 
ter, four ounces Of white powder sugar, 
one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin 
cream to make it into a paste. When 
mixed, put currants into one half, and 
carrawaysinto the rest. Cut them with 
the top ofa canister, or glass, and bake 
on tins. | 
- Caxes (Little, for Tea). — Mix one 
pound of dried flour, half a pound _of fine 
sugar sifted, one ounce of carraway seeds, 
a little nutmeg and pounded mace; beat 
the yolks of two eggs with three spoon- 


fuls of sack ; put these to the rest, with’ 


half a pound of butter melted ina little 
thin cream, or new milk; work all to- 
gether, rollit out thin, cut it.into cakes 
with tin or glass; bake them on tins; a 
little baking does in a slack oven. 

Caxss (Little White).—-Dry half a 
pound of flour, rubinto it a very little 
pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one 
egg, a few carraways, and as much milk 
and water as to make a paste; roll it 
thin, and cnt it with the top of a canister, 
or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin 
plates. 

Caxren Losange.*—Makea puff paste; 


( 95 ) 


CA K 
roll it out to the thickness of Half a fin- 


ger; cut it in lozenges the width of two 


fingers, and gild over the cake with the 
yolk of an egg well beaten; bake them 
for a full quarter ofan hour in an oven, 
then glaze them with sugar and a sala- 
mander. 

Cake d@ la Madeleine.—Take the same 
weight of flour, sugar, butter, and eggs, 
In general eight eggs are sufficient foran 
entremet; put ina little salt and the 


_rasped peel of a lemon ; work this paste 


a little till you have put all the butter 
intoit. Melt a little butter in a stew- 
pan, and skim it well; pour a little into 
each mould, and then drain it, leaving, 
however, a drop atthe bottom to facili- 
tate the coming out of the cake. Sift 
some ashes over a baking sheet, put the 
small moulds into it, and then put paste 
into each of them, about half the depth, 
to give itroomtorise. Bakethemin a 
moderate oven. When done, turn them 
outon a clean sheet of paper, and put 
them again into the oven for afew mi- 
nutes. By changing the form of the 
mould you producea dish of a different 
appearance ; and by occasionally empty- 
ing the inside with the point of a knife, 
and putting into the cavity either cream 
or sweetmeats, you make what is called 
Cakes @ la Madeleine Furcies, 

Cakes @ la Manon.*—Form some puff 
paste into an under-crust, and cover 


some baking plates with it; then spread 


all over them some frangipune, or mare 
malade, of whatever sort you please ; add 
some sweetmeat, and then cover with 3 
very thin crust; gild and ornament 
them, then put them in the oven ; when 
they are three parts done, sprinkle them 
with sugar, and glaze. When they are 
glazed put them to finish baking ina 
more gentle oven, and when done 
take them out of the tins, and serve them 
either hot or cold, 

Cakes (Maudiing).—Take a quarter 
of a peck of flour, well dried hefore the 
fire, add two pounds of mutton suet, 
tried and strained clear off, and when it 
is a little cool, mix it well with the flour, 
some salt anda very litile allspice beat 
fine; take half a pint of water, stir it 
well together, strain it, and mix up your 
flour into a paste of a moderate he beg 
you must add as much cold water, as 
will nake the paste of a right order, and 
make itinto cakes about the thickness 
and bigness of an oat cake; have ready 
some currants clean washed and picked, 
strew some in the middle of your cakes, 
between the dough, so that none can be 
seen till the cake is broke. You may 


leave the currants out if you do age 


choose them. 





CAK 


- Caxe Meat.—Cut the fillet from the 
inside of the rump of beef into small 
pieces, also lean veal, and pound them 
very fine in a marble mortar. Then add 
alittle lemon juice, pepper, salt, chopped 


parsley, basil, thyme, mushrooms, sa-: 


vory and shalots, but only a small quan- 
tity of each; some beaten spices, and a 
sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs to 
bind it. Then add, and mix with your 
hands, some fat bacon, and lean of ham 
cut intodice. Then line a stewpan or 
mould with bards cf fat bacon, fill it with 
the mixture, press it down; put on the 
top bay-leaves, and alittle rhenish wine, 
cover it with bards of fat bacon, and bake 
it thoroughly in a moderate oven. When 
it is cold, turn it out of the mould, trim 
it clean, set it on a dish, put chopped 
savory jelly round it, and a small ‘mo- 
delled figure on the top ; or the whole of 
the cake may be modelled. 

Cake (Meat).*—Your cake should be 
named after the meat or game you make 
use of. They are all made alike, except 
when you make them of game, you mix 
with the game an equal quantity of but- 
cher’s meat. Fora mutton cake, takea 
leg of mutton, skin, and take off all the 
meat; mince it with a little beef suet, 
add to it a pound of bacon cut into dice, 
the yolks of six eggs, salt and ground 
spices, half a glass of brandy, some 
champignons, shalots, parsley and green 
onions chopped fine. Put some thin 
slices of bacon in a stewpan, and the 
mutton forcemeat upon them, well mixed 
and seasoned; let it stew at least three 
hours; when done, and cool, turn it out 
on a dish ; let the slices of bacon which 
will be found to adhere to the mutton, 
vemain; scrape them lightly with a 
knife, and serve the mutton cake on a 
napkin placed in a dish. 

Canes de Niauffles. —Make a good 
puff paste, roll it pretty thick, and cut it 
into lozenges about the bigness of the 
palm of your hand; brush it over with 
yolks of eggs beat up, and strew maca- 
roni drops powder over them, with a 
little powder of orange- flowers, and lemon 
pee! chopped very fine; stick bits of 
scalded sweet almonds in the paste, 
pointed upwards, cover them with paper 
in the oven, to keep them of a palish 
colour. 

Cake @ Nouille.*—Make some piite a 
Nouélie with the yolks of six eggs 5 when 
it is well mixed, add to it four glasses of 
boiling cream, in which you have pre- 
viously put eight ounces of butter. Let 
it boil for a few minutes, then add six 
ounces of sugar, having the zest of an 
orange grated over it; stir the whole 
well together,and then place it for half 


( 96 ) 


CAK 


an hour over warm ashes, that the 
Nouilles roay swell and become firm 5 
then add the yolks of eight eggs, and. 
some salt to give it consistence; then 
pour it into a buttered mould, and let it 


bake for two hours in a moderateoven. __ 


- Caxe ( Nuns).— Take four pounds of 
very fine flonr, and mix with it three 
pounds of double-refined suzar, finely 
beat and sifted; dry them by the fire 


till your other materials are prepared; — 


take four poundsof butter, beatit in your 
hands till it is very soft like cream ; beat 
thirty-four eggs, leave out sixteen whites 
and take-out the treads from all; beat 
the eggs and butter together till it ap- 


pears like butter, pour in four or five 


spoonfuls of rose Or orange flower-water, 
and beat itagain; then take your flour 
and sugar with six ounces of carraway 
seeds ; strew it in'by degrees, beating 
it up all the while, for two hours to- 
gether; putin as much tincture of cin- 
namon, or ambergris, as you please; 
butter your hoop, and let it stand three 
hours ina moderate oven. hs 

Cake @ la Paristenne.* — Take one 
pound and a half of finely sifted flour, 
make a sponge; then add four drachms 
of fine salt, two ounces of powdered 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one pound 
and a quarter of fine butter, and a glass 


of cream; mix the whole well together, 


spread it out thin, and strew it over with 
vanilla chopped very small; then mix 
the whole well together again, after 
which mould your cake; finish with 
paper bands, &c. the same as for all 
other cakes, and ornament it according 
to your own fancy. Then let it bake for 
two hours and a half or three hours ina. 
ten] oven. Thiscake should be eaten 
cold. : ae 

Cakes (Pepper).—Take a gill of sack, 
and a quarter of an ounce of whole white 
pepper, put it in, and boil them together 
fora quarter of an hour; then strain: 
out the pepper, and pnt in as muck 
double refined sugar as will make it like 
a paste 5 then drop it in what shape yon 
bie on a tin-plate, and let it dry 
itself. 

Caxe (Plum). — Three pounds of. 
flour, three pounds of currants,, three 
quarters ofa pound of almonds, blanched 
and beat grossly, about half an ounce of 
them bitter, four ounces of sugar, seven 
yolks and six whites of eggs, ane pint of 
cream, two pounds of butter, half-a-pint 
of good ale yeast; mix the eggs and 
the yeast together, strain them; set the 
cream on the fire, melt the butter in it ; 
stirin the almonds, and half a pint of 
sack, part of which should be put-to the 
almonds while beating; mix together 


— Oe ee Oe 





CAK 


the flour, currants and sugar, what nut- 
megs, cloves and mace are liked: stir 
these to the cream : putin the yeast. 

Cake (a very fixe rich Plum).—Take 
four pounds of the finest flour well dried 
and sifted, six pounds of the best fresh 
butter, seven pounds of currants well 
washed, picked and rubbed very clean 
and dry; two pounds of Jordan al- 
monds, blanched and beat in a marble 
mortar, with sack and orange flower- 
water, till they are very fine; take four 
pounds of eggs, leave out half the whites, 
and add three pounds of double refined- 
sugar, beat and sifted through a lawn 
sieve, with mace, cloves and cinnamon, 
of each a quarter of an ounce; three 
large nutmegs beat fine, a little ginger: 
of sack and brandy half a pint each, 
sweetmeats to your liking, lemon and 
citron; take a laree broad pan, beat the 
butter to a cream before any of your in- 
gredients goin, minding to beat it all 
one way, or it will turn to oil; put in the 
sugar, beat it well, and work in your 
almonds; let your eggs be well beat, 
put in, and beat ail together t'll it looks 
white and thick; put in the brandy, 
sack, and spices, and shake your flour in 
by degrees; when your oven is ready, 
put in the currants and swectmeats, 
and putitinto your hoop: it will take 
four hours baking in a quick oven. 

Note.—As you mix it for the oven, 
you must be mindful to keep beating it 
all the t'me with your hand; and your 
currants, aS soon as cleaned, must be 
put ina dish before the fire, that they 
may be warm when mixed. The above 
quantity bakes best in two hoops. 

Cake (a Common Plum one).— Take 
three pounds of flour, alittle ale yeast, 
a pint of milk, a pound of sugar, a pound 
of butter, and a little allspice; make it 
into dough before you put in the plums, 
and wo:k 1n as manyas you please. 

Caxe (Plum & la Campagne).*—Take 
fur pints of fine flour, make a hole in 
the middle, put into it one ounce of fine 
salt, two pounds of butter, six eggs, and 
three glasses of water, beat up the butter 
with the eggs, the salt, and the water; 
then mix the flour with the butter, then 
mix up your paste lightiy, and give it 
four turns withthe rolling pin, the same 
as in making puff paste; after this work- 
ing up, form your cake, sprinkling the 
table with flour, place it upon a pan, 
press it down till it is about three inches 
thick; then sur:ound the cake with a 
band ofstout paper, and to prevent the 
paste from extending, place over the first 
hand of paper several smaller ones, 
wetted with the yolk of egg beaten up; 


place these bands of paper half upon the: 


(97) 


CAK 


cake and half on the pan. Your cake 
being thus prepared, gild it, and with the 
point of a knife, describe upon it all 
sorts of figures according to your taste. 
Put it into a quick oven, and let it bake 
for three hours. This cake is better cold 
than hot. ' ; 

Caxe (Plum a la Vanille).*—Take a 
pint and a half of flour; make a hole in 
the middle, put in it six drachms of sugar 
grated very fine, three drachms of white 
salt, the yolks of three eggs, a pound of 
butter, and aglass of good cream, and 
stir up the same as for plum cake @ la 
Campagne; spread your paste out very 
thin; sprinkle it with a piece of yanille 
grated very fine, then form your cake, 
and proceed the same as for plum cake @ 
la Campagne. 

“his cake must not be eaten until it is 
quite cold. 

You may make in the same manner as 
the preceding, plum cakes with citron 
grated and put into bags, and sprinkled 
over the paste, also chocolate, coffee, &c. 

Cakes @ la Polonaise.*—Take some 
puff paste, and form it into a ciust, one 
quarter of an inch thick; cut it into 
square pieces, moisten the surface of 
them, and gather up the four corners of 
each, and press them together; have 
ready some small round moulds, dip 
them in warm water, and put them 
through the middle of the cakes; then 
put themin the oven; when they are 
three parts done, take them out, sprinkle. 
them with sugar, and glaze them ; then 
let them finish baking; when done, 
take out the moulds, and fill them with 
whatever Sweetmeat you think proper. 

Cakes @ la Portugaise.*—Blanch and 
pound half a pound of almonds; mix 
with them the juice of three oranges 
with their peel very finely chopped up 3 
put this preparation into a pan, and add 
toit some powdered sugar, two ounces 
of very fine flour, and the yolks of six 
eggs, beat up the whites, and mix them 
also with the other ingredients; then 
take a long mould, or paper case, butter 
it, and put in your preparation ; let it 
bake in a moderate oven; when done, 
cut them into small squares or lozenges : 
glaze them, and pnt themin astove to dry. 
_ CAKE ( Portuguese.)*—Made the same 
as pound cake, only add a pound of clari- 
fied butter, almonds, currants, &c. 

Cakes (Poriugu/).—Two pounds of 
flour, the same of butter,sugar, and cur- 
rants, nine yolks of eggs, four whites; 
mix these with a little brandy; butter 
the pans, and bake them in a pretty. hot 
oven. . ; ; 

CaxE (Pound).—To a pound of sifted 
ree add a pound of fresh butter, and 


CAK, 


( 98 ) 


CAK 


mix them with the hand ten minutes ; | orange flowers, and two bitter almond- 


put to them nine yolks and five whites 
of eggs well beaten ; whisk all well, and 
add a pound of sifted flour, a few carra- 
way seeds, a quarter of a pound of can- 
died orange-peel cut into slices, a few 
currants washed and picked, and mix 
all together as light as possible. 

Cakes (Queen).— Beat one pound of 
butter to cream, with some rose-water, 
one pound of flour dried, one pound of 
sifted sugar, twelve eggs ; beat all well 
together; add a few currants washed 
and dried; butter small pans of a size for 
the purpose, grate sugar over them ; they 
are soon baked. They may be done ina 
Dutch oven. 

Cakes &@ la Reine.* — Blanch and 

pound one pound of sweet almonds ; add 
a pound of sugar, a handful of crisp 
orange-flowers, and the whites of four 
eggs ; mix the whole well together ; then 
mould your cakes into what form you 
please ; place them on tins, and let them 
bake in a moderate oven; mask them 
the same as Génoise glacée & I’ Italienne, 
and ornament them according to your 
taste. 
_ Cake de Rosquelle.—Take half a 
pound of sweet almonds, with a few hit- 
ter ones, blanch and pick them, then 
pound them very fine, and when nearly 
pounded enough, put in about half a 
pound of Lisbon sugar by degrees ; when 
the whole is well blended, take it out of 
the mortar. ‘hen have some puff paste 
rolled out very thin, rol! out your al- 
monds in lengths, as long as the paste is 
broad, which lay upon the paste, and 
turn the end over ; lightly egg it to join 
it together; then with the gigging Iron 
cut if across, each about three inches 
long ; put them in the oven, and when 
nearly done, glaze them the same as 
other pastrv. 

Caxes (Rout Drop).—Mix two pounds 
of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto 
sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry; 
then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, 
a large spoonful of orange-flower water, 
ditto rose water, ditto sweet wine, ditto 
brandy ; drop on a tin plate floured; a 
very short time bakes them, 
~ Cake a la Royale.*—Puta very little 
-lemon peel, shred fine, into a stewpan, 
with two ounces of sugar, a. small pinch 
of salt, a piece of butter half the size of 
_an egg, a glass of water, and four or five 
spoonsful of flour; stir over the fire till 
the paste becomes thick, and begins to 
adhere to the stewpan; then take it off, 
put in an egg, and etir it in the paste till 
it is well mixed ; continue to add one egg 
at atime, till the paste softens without 
becoming liquid; then put in some dried 


biscuits, the whole shred fine; make the 
| paste into little cakes, about the size 
| round ofa half-crown ; put them on but- 
tered paper, gild them with the yolk of 
an egg beat up, and bake half an hour in 
an oven moderately hot. Thien 
_ Caxes, Saffron.—Take a quarter of a 
peck of flonr, a pound and a balf of but- 
ter, three ounces of carraway seeds, and 
six eggs; beat a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves and mace together very fine, a 
pennyworth of cinnamon, beat a pound 
of sugar, a pennyworth of rose-water, 
ditto of saffron, a pint and a half of yeast, 
and a quart of milk; mix all together 
lightly, with your hands, thus: first boil 
the milk and butter, skim off the butter, 
and mix it with the flour, and a little of 
the milk, stir the yeast into the rest, and 
strain it; mix it with the flour, put in 
your seed, spice, rose-water, tincture of 
saffron, sugar and eggs; beat all up with 
your hands very lightly, and bake it ina 
hoop or pan, minding to butter the pan 
well 5 it will take an hour and a halfina 
quick oven; you may leave out the seeds 
if you please. 

Cakes (Savoy).*—Put fourteen whole 
eggs in one side of a pair of scales, and 
their weight in fine sugar on the other 
side; take out the sugar, and seven of 
the eggs, and balance the remaining 
seven with fine flour, then put the flour 
aside, break the eggs, putting the yolks 
apart from the whites, add to the yolks 
the sugar you have weighed, a little 
grated lemon-peel, and some chopped 
dried orange-flowers; beat them all up 
together for halfan hour then whip the 
whites of the eggs, put the flour you have 
weighed to them, then gradually mix the 
whole together, stirring the ingredients 
with the whisk as you mix them. Have 
ready a cake-ring, butter it, put the cake 
in it, and set it in an oven moderately 
hot, a full hourand a half; when done, 
turn it carefully out upon a disk; if it is 
ofa fine golden colour, serve it simply, 
but if it is of too deep a colour, ice it with 
very fine sugar, the white of an egg, and 
the juice of half a lemon, beat well to- 
gether with a wooden spoon, till the icing 
is very white: the cake should not be 
seryed until the ice is perfectly dry. 

Caxe. Seed.*—Take apound of lump 
sugar, well beaten and sifted, tnelve 
ounees of flour, well dried, two ounces 
of carraway seeds, eight eggs, beat them 
well, then put in your sugar, beat them 
first well together, then add your flour 
and carraways. Beat them all well to- 
gether; butter your cake, but not too 
much; then bake it. 

Cake (Seed).—Put a pound and a half 


a al ll ein 





CAK 


of flour, to half a pound of fresh butter, 
broke into small pieces, and likewise a 
quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and 
halfa grated nutmeg; make a hole in the 
centre of the flour, and set a sponge with 
a gill of yeast, and a little milk; when 
well risen, add slices of candied orange 
or lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up. 
Mix all well together, witn a little warm 
milk, of a proper stiffness, mould it into 
a cake, prove it in a warm place, and 
bake it. 

Caxe (a Rich Seed one).—Take five 
pounds of fine flour, well dried, and four 
pounds of single refined sugar, beat and 
sifted ; mix these together, and sift them 
through an hair sieve; then wash four 
pounds of butter in eight spoonsfel of 
rose or orange-flower water, and wash the 
butter with your hands till it is like 
cream; beat twenty yolks and ten whites 
of eggs, and put to them six spoonsful of 
sack; putin the flour a little at a time, 
‘and keep stirring it with your hand all 
the time; you must not begin mixing it 
till the oven is almost hot, and after it is 
mixed let it stand some time before you 
put it into the hoop ; when you are ready 
to put it in the oven, put to it eight 
Ounces of candied orange-peel sliced, 
with as much citron, and a pound anda 
half of carraway comfits, mix them well, 
and put it into the hoop; it must be a 
quick oven, and two or three hours will 
be sufficient to bake the cake; after 
which you may ice it if you please. 

Cake (a small Rich Seed).—Break 
fourteen egys into a copper pan, whisk 
them ten minutes; then take one pound 
of butter, and rub it well with your hand 
to acream; put one pound of powdered 
sugar te the eggs, and whisk them over 
the fire three minutes, then whisk them 
till they are cold, afterwards mix them 
with the butter with your hand as Jight 
as you can 3 put two or three handsful of 
carraway seeds in, and some sweet al- 
monds ciit; and a little cinnamon and 
mace; mix one pound and a quarter of 
flour, as light as you can with your hand; 
put three papers inside your hoop, and 
four or five at bottom, and let your oven 
be rather brisk; when you find your 
cake has risen, and the oven too hot at 
the top, cover it with a sheet of paper, 
and it will be done in about an hour and 
a half, or two hours at farthest. 

Cake (Seed Common).* —One pound 
of flour, a quarter ofa pound of butter, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a few carra- 
ways, a pint of milk, a spoonful of 
yeast, mixed well together; let it stand 
a long time before the fire, then put it in 
the oven. 

Cane (a Pound Seed).—Take a pound 


( 99 ) 


‘and Jemon-peel, and citron. 
K 2 


CAK 

of flour, one pound of fine powdér sugar, 
one pound of butter, eight yolks, an 
four whites of eggs, as much carraway 


seeds as vou like; first beat up the bat- 
ter to a cream with your: hands, beaing 


it one way lest it oil; then by degrees 


beat in your eggs, sugar, and flour, till it 
goes into the oven; bake it in a quick 
oven, and it will take an hour and a 
quarter baking. : 

Cakes (Shrewsbury). — Having beat 
halfa pound of butter to a cream, put in 
half a pound of flour, an_egg, six ounces 
of loaf sugar, beaten and sifted, half an 
ounce of carraway seeds, mixed into a 
paste, and roll them in. Cut them round 
with little tins, or a small glass, prick 
them, lay them on sheets of tin, and bake 
them in 2 slow oven. 

Cakes (Shrewsbury).—Take a pound 
of butter, and put it in a little flat pan, 
rub it till it is as fine as cream, then take 
one pound of powdered sugar, a little 
cinnamon and mace pounded, and feur 
eggs, yolks and whites together; beat 
them with your hand till it is very light; 
then take one pound and a half of sifted 
flour, work it together, and roll it on your 
dresser, to what size you like, only very 
flat, Jet your oven be rather slow, and 
let them change their colour, then take 
them out. 

Cakes (Small)— Rub well together 
half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound 
of fresh butter, and three quarters of a 
pound of sifted flour, then wet it witha 
gill of boiling milk, strew in afew carra- 
way seeds, and let it lie till the next day 5 
when moulded, and cut into six score 
pieces, roll them as thin as possible, and 
bake them in an oven three parts cold. 

CakeEs( Spanish).*—One pound ofsugar, 
one pound of flour, one pound of eggs, 
leaving out one third of the whites put 
them into moulds, and bake them in a 
slow oven. 

Cake (Sponge).— Weigh ten eggs, and 
their weight in very fine sugar, and that 
of six in flour; beat the yolks with the 
flour, and the whites alone, to a very 
stiff froth: then by degrees mix the 
whites and the flour with the other ingre- 
dients, and beat them well kalf an hour. 
Bake in a quick oven an hour. 

Cakes (Twelfth).—Make a cavity in 
the centre of six pounds of flour, set a 
sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, 
and a little warm milk; pet round it a 
pound of fresh butter, in small lumps. a 
pound and a quarter of sifted sugar, four 
pounds and a half of currants, half an 
ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of 
an ounce of pounded cloves, mace, and 
nutmeg mixed, and sliced candied oe 

en 


CAL 


risen, mix all well together with a little 
warm milk; hive the hoops well pre- 
pared and buttered, and fill them with 
the mixture, and bake them. When 
nearly cold, ice them over with sugar, as 
per receipt, or they may be quite plain. 

Cake en Turban.—This is the same 
composition as Turk’s Cap, with ice 
cream, only baked in smal! moulds, rib- 
bed or twisted in the same manner as the 
Jarge ones, and served in their natural 
colour. 

Cakes (WV uter, with Carraway Seeds). 
—Take three pounds of powdered sugar, 
and four’pounds of sifted flour, mix the 
flour and sugar together on a clean 
dresser, with half water and half whites 
of eggs, and as many carraway seeds as 
you think proper, mix all together, so as 
to make a very fine paste, that you can 
roll it on the dresser, and the thinner the 
better ; cut out the shape you like witha 
tin cutter; round and scalloped is the 
most common, but vary the shape to 
your own fancy, roll them very thin, and 
they will be the crisper, for if they are 
not crisp, they are not worth eating; put 
them on a shee: of paper, and put them 
into rather a slow oven, and if you think 
it too hot, put as many sheets of paper 
as you think fit, to prevent them from 
being burnt, bake them very little, so as 
just to change the colour of them, and 
butter the sheet of paper you put them 
on, that they may come off easily. 

Cakes ( Yeast),—Take a pound of flour, 
two pounds of currants, washed and 
picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter, a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, 
a quarter ofa pound of citron and candied 
orange-peel cut into slices, cinnamon and 
mace, a small quantity of each pounded 
and sifted. Muakea hole in the centre of 
the ingredients, put in a gill of sweet 
wine, a little warm milk, mix all to- 
gether, fill a hoop with it, let it remain 
till it rises, and bake it. 

Cakes ( Yurkshire).—Take two pounds 
of flour, and mix with it four ounces of 
butter, melted in a pint of good milk, 
three spoonsful of yeast, and. two eggs; 

beat all well together, and let it rise; 
then knead it, and make it into cakes ; 
let them rise on tins before you bake, 
which do in a slow oven. ; 

Another sort is made as above, leaving 
out the butter. The first is shorter, the 
last lighter. 

CALF’S Brains in Aspic.*—Prepare 
xour brains as for poelées. Put some 
lukewarm aspicinto a mould, lay it about 
an inch thick, let it cool and corgeal, and 
then having cut the brains into four 
parts, place them on the aspic in a thin 
layer, and pour on them a sufficient quan- 


(100 ) 


“CAL 


tity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, 
and place it in ice. When preperly set, 
and it is wanted for table, heat a cloth, 
and rub your mould with it until the 
je:ly quits the side; or dip the mould 
into warm water; tura it out with great 
care, and if any pieces of the jelly should 
be spilt on the dish, suck them up by 
mexns ofareed, ah 

Caur’s Brains a Ul Allemande.*— 
Cleanse the brains thoroughly; divide 
them into four lengths, trim, and put 
them into a stewpan, lined with bacon, 
moisten with white wine and consommeé, 
add parsley, green onions, and slices of 
lemon, without the seeds aud peel. 
Cover them with bacon and buttered 
paper; cook them over a stove; when 
done, place them on a dish, and pour 
over them sauce allemande. 

Cautr’s Brains in Black Butter.— 
Clean, soak, and blanch three or four 
calves’ brains ; put them into a saucepan 
full of boiling water, with a little salt and 
halfa glass of vinegar; let them remain 
in this tiil cold, which will make them 
firm. Cook them in a good marinade for 
three quarters of an hour, and when 
ready to serve, pour some black butter 
into the dish, and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

CauF’s Brains au Blanc-mange.*— 
When the brains are well cleansed and 
soaked, place them on two slices of 
bacon, and two of lemon, in a stewpan, 
with a glass of stock. When sufficiently 
done, take them out, and when cool, cut 
them in strips, and pour over them white 
sauce, cream boiled with the yolks of 
eggs, or any other cream sauce you 
please. 

Catr’s Brains Breaded. * — Prepare 
them as for plain boiling, suak them for 
two hours in vinegar: take them out, 
and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick 
snow, cover them with breadcrumbs, and 
either broil or fry them. 

CauFr’s Brains, Coguilles of.*—Cut 
some cal!f’s brains into twelve pieces, and 
put into a saucepan mushrooms and truf- 
fles, tossed up in a little white wine; re- 
duce them to jelly, and then add twa 
spoonsful of adlemande, and one of velouté, 
boil these, and put to them a little but- 
ter, parsley, and lemon juice, put in the 
brains, mix them altogether, and put 
them into scallop-shells, cover them with 
bread crumbs, and grated parmesan- 
cheese, pour a little melted butter over, 
and brown them. ’ : 

CauF’s Brains and Crayfish.*—Boil 
the brains in a litile stock, drain, and 
place them on a dish, so that the end of 
each piece may meet in the middle. 
Take the tails and claws from as many 





CAL 


crayfish as you please, and place one be- 


_ tween each piece of the brain. Put one 
in the middle, with the tail and claws on. 
Pour over the brains either butter of 
cray-fish or tomata sauce. 
 Carr’s Brains, Crepinettes of *—Di- 
vide six boiled calves’ brains each in 
half; cut a dozen large onions into dice, 
scald, and boil them with a bit of butter, 
salt, garlic, pepper, nutmeg, and bay- 
leaf; when done, put in two fadlesful of 
velouté, reduce the whole to the consis- 
tence of batter, and then add the yolks 
_ Of four eggs, and a piece of butter, wrap 

each half brain in this, and surround it 
with a pork caul. Serve them with a 
clear aspic sauce. 

Caur’s Brains, Cromesquis of.—Cut 
the brains, a veal sweetbread, a dozen 
mushrooms, atid four truifies, into dice ; 
put the two latter into some allemande, 
and reduce it, then add the brains and 
aweetbread, and a little nutmeg; stir 
them together, and set them to cool. 
Mould them in pieces about the size of 
a little finger; take some cold calf’s 
udder, and cut it into thin slices, and 
lay arolion each, and wrap it up; dip 
them in batter, and fry them. Serve 
with fried Boley 

Catr’s Brains Fried.*—Prepare and 
dress the brains as for peée/ées, then cut 
them into six piecés, and put them into 
a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar, 
till just before they are wanted, when 
they should be drained; put them into 
batter (not too hot), and fry them; drain 
them again, and place them on a dish 
round a pyramid of fried parsley. 

Catr’s Brains in Jelly.*—Put some 
jelly into a plain round mould, and set 
it in ice; and as soon as the jelly is well 
get, turn it on the table-dish, which 

must be placed over pounded ice ; put on 
the jelly a whole calf’s brain, cover it 
entirely with iced Montpelier butter 
(see the Recipe) ; on this lay three more 
brains boiled very white ; ornament the 
top with pieces of jelly, and garnish your 
dish with a border of jelly or coloured 
butter, and serve. 

Catr’s Brains, & la Magnonnaise.*— 
Cleanse and soak five calves’ brains in 
cold water for some hours; drain and 
put them into a saucepanof boiling water 
with a little salt and half a glass of tarra- 
gon vinegar; having boiled them a quar- 
ter of an hour, take out the brains care- 
fully, and put them in a pan of cold 
water, Line a stewpan with slices of 
bacon, lay in the brains, and on them 
sliced lemons; cover the whole with 
hacon and buttered paper; add a bunch 
ot sweet herbs, two onions stuck with 


( idl ) 





CAL 

cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock 
to cover the brains; when it boils, set 
the stewpan by the side of the fire, and 
keep it simmering for an hour; let the 
brains cool in their liquor, and then 
drain them on a napkin; divide each 
brain in half, trim and place them, ez 
couronne, on the table-dish; garnish 
them with a border of jelly, and in the 
spaces between each half brain, lay a 
crescent of jelly cut with a paste-cutter, 
two inches and a half in diameter. Pour 
into the centre of the crown a sauce 
magnonnutse, either white, or @ la ravi- 
gotte, and serve. 

Caur’s Brains, en Matelotte.*—Take 
the brains from two ealves’ heads, cleanse 
them well, and stew them with white 
wine, stock, salt, pepper, and a bunch 
of swéet herbs. In the meantime make 
a ragoiit of small onions, roots with stock, 
and sweet herbs; season it well, thicken 
it with cullis, and pour this round the 
brains. 

Caur’s Brains, at Naturel.* —Take 


| the brains from two calves’ heads, clean 
| and soak them in warm water ; boil them 
| in good stock, or consommé. Serve either 
| cold or warm. 


Catr’s Brains, with Oysters.*—Blanch 
and clean the brains, then wipe them 
dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and 
roll them in bread crumbs; fry them in 
boiling lard till of a good colour, drain 
them very dry, and serve with oysters, 
stewed either white or brown. Garnish 
with broiled ham cut in small round 
pieces. 

Caur’s Brains, Pasty of.—Cleanse and 
scald the brains, then blanch some as- 
paragus tops with a little parsley and 
butter; when cold, put them into the 
pasties, with the yolks of six hard eggs 
and some forcemeat; put them into the 
oven, and when done, lift up the upper 
crust, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, 
butter, and gravy. 

Caur’s Brains, Poélées.*—Take three 
calves’ brains, remove the skin and fibres 
from them, and soak them for two hours ; 
then have ready a saucepan of boiling 
water, with a little salt and vinegar in 
it; blanch the brains in this for a quarter 
of an hour, and then put them into cold 
water. Line a stewpan with bacon, lay 
in the brains, cover them with bacon, 
and pour over the wholea sufficient quan- 
tity of poélée to stew them. 

Catr’s Brains, a@ la Provengale.*— 
Prepare four calves’ brains as for poélérs, 
and having blanched them, boil them in 
a marinade of nowilles, white wine, gar- 
lick, and olives; when done, drain and 


let them cool; cut the brains in half, 


CALL 


trim and dish them in the form of acrown, 
and serve with sauce mayonnaise, either 
green or white. | he 

Caur’s Brains, au Réveil. —Prepare 
‘and braise any number of calves’ brains ; 
make a batter with cullis, butter, ana 
‘mustard; bathe the brains in it, and 
strew over bread-crumbs and cheese. 
Colour them with a salamander or in the 
oven. Servethem on cullisand mustard. 
They may. also be broiled slowly, and 
served with relishing sauce. - 
Car's Brains, Salad of.*— Prepare 
and dress calf’s brains as for la magnon- 
naise; place them also en couronne, on 
a bed of lettuce, cut small and dressed as 
usual; garnish each piece of the brains 
with lettuce, and arrange a border of 
eggs, lettuce hearts, and anchovies cut 
in slips. When about to serveit, pour 
over the brains, or into the middle of 
them a saucemagnonnuise a laravigotte. 

Catr’s Brains with different Suuces.— 
Brains braised in broth and wine may be 
used with whatsauce or ragofit you please, 
such as fat livers, pigeons, sausages, 
onions, capers, fried bread, &c. &c. from 
which they generally take the name. 

Caur’s Brains, au Soletl.*—Cleanse 
two calves’ brains, and stew them in stock 
with two or three spoonsful of vinegar, a 
bunch of parsley, scallions, a clove of 
garlick, three cloves, thyme, laurel, and 
basil ; when sufficiently stewed, cut each 
niece of the brain in two, dip them in a 
baites made of two handsful of flour, di- 
luted with a little oil, half a pint of white 
wine, and salt. Fry them in lard until 
the batter is crisp and the brains of a 
gold colour. 

~Caur’s Chaudron, a Il Allemande. — 
Make a gratin with Swiss cheese rasped, 
bread-crumbs, two yolks of eggs, anda 
Vttle cullis; place itina éabile-Hish over 
hot ashes, that it may catch at the hot- 
tom; then put in a chaudron, boiled, 
cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and pre- 
viousiy mixed with sauce Robert. Gar- 
nish the dish with small onions boiled in 
broth, and bits of bread fried in butter; 
pour on it a little butter melted witha 
spoontulof mustard. Strew bread-crumbs 
and grated cheese, and colour it in the 
oven; wipethe dish free from fat, and 
serve with clear relishing sauce. 

Caur’s Chaudron and Anchovies.*— 
Melt some butter in a stewpan, and toss 
up in it some small onions sliced; adda 
Jittle stock or veal broth; put into this 
the chaudron properly prepared, and cut 
in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and 
herbs. When they are flavoured, pour 
them intoa buttered mould, and place 
on them six anchovies washed and split 
in four pieces, in the forms of crosses. 


( 102 ) 


CAL 
Cover the whole with caul, and bake in 


a moderate oven. OIE ra 
Car’s Chaudron and Cheese.*—Toss 
up the chaudron with a bit of butter, and 
some small onions, with half a glass of 
stock. Cut some gruyére cheese into 
thin slices, melt it, and baste with veal 
gravy mixed with the yolks of two or 
three eggs; pour over this the chaudron: 
and sauce, and brown it. ' 
Caur’s Chaudron, fricassée.—Parboil 
a calf’s chaudron, and when cold, cut it 
in pieces about as big as walnuts; season 
them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, 
mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsley 
shred fine; fry them ina ladleful of good 
broth and fresh butter; make a sauce of 
mutton gravy, orange and lemon-juice, 
eggs’ yolks, and grated nutmeg; toss up 
these ingredients with the chaudron, 
then dishit and serve. 


Caur’s Chaudron Fritters.*—Cook a: 


prepared chaudron with salt, parsley, 
scallions, garlick, a bay- leaf, thyme, ba- 
sil, and two or three cloves. When sut- 
ficiently done, drain it, and clear away 
the fat, cut it small, and marinade it an 
hour in butter ; two spoonsful of vinegar, 
parsley, scallions, shalots (all minced), 
salt, and pepper; warm the marinade, 
then take out the chaudron, and roll them 
up by degrees, making tite herbs, &c. 
stick tothem; dip them in egg, bread, 
and fry them. 

Cautr’s Chaudron, a la Mariniére.*— 
When the chaudron is prepared, cut it 
in strips about three fingers long; soak 
them instock, seasoned witli salt, pepper, 
cloves, and vinegar, over hot ashes; dip 
them in batter made of flour, yolks of 
eggs, and white wine. He ey 

Cau¥r’s Chaudron Pie.—Makea ragotit 
with a chaudron. (previously boiled), 
mushrooms, parsley, shalots, garlick, a 
glass of white wine, and cullis. When 
quite done, cut the chaudron in slices, 
and put it with the sauce into a baked 
puff crust; skim the fat off, add pepper, 
salt, and Jemon-juice. 

Caur’s Chaudron, a la Provengale.*— 
Soak it well in lukewarm water ta cleanse 
it thoroughly; boil it in stock, then cut 
it in pieces andlet it cool. Makea sauce, 
with good stock, two spoonsful of oil, salt, 
pepper, garlick, dried mushrooms cut 
small; do these together, and when of 
a proper consistence, put the chaudron 
in for about ten minutes. When done, 
add lemon-juice. 

Caur’s Chaudron Pudding.*—Prepare. 
your chaudron, and cut into small pieces 
the size of a nut; season with salt, pep- 
per, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork 
fat cut small; you may add some godi- 
veau and the crumb f bread boiled in 


¢ 


; 
q 


D | 


i 
4 
) 
q 





: 
CAL 


milk and beaten up with yolks of eggs. 
Soften some caul in warm water, lay them 
cpa on the table, and fill them with the 
above mixture; form them to any shape 
you please, and bake them; when crisp, 
they are ready to serve. Pour on them 
blond or veal gravy. 
Caur’s Chetterlings.—Chuse some of 
the largest calves’ nuts, and having 
cleansed them, cut them in pieces, of 
whatever lengths you may think proper, 
and tie one end of each piece. Blancha 
calf’s chaudren, and cut it intodice, with 
a calf’s udder and some bacon; put them 
into a stewpan with halfa pint of cream, 
pounded spice, bay-leaf, shalot, pepper, 
and sa!t, toss them up, take off the pan, 
and thicken it with four or five yolks of 
eggs and some bread-crumbs; keep it 
warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie 
up the other end and boil them, let them 
cool in their own liquor. When wanted, 
boil them over a moderate fire. ‘ 
Catr’s Chitterlings. —Cut into dice, 
some bacon, a calf’s udder, and the fat 
that comes from the chitterlings, and 
calves’ chaudron; put them all into a 
stewpan with a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, 
shalot cutsmall, pounded mace, and Ja- 
maica pepper, with half a pint of milk 
let it just simmer; take off the pan, an 
thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, 
and some crumbs of bread; fill the chit- 
terlings with this mixture, which must 
be kept warm, and make the links like 
hogs’-puddings. Before they are sent to 
table, boil them over a moderate fire; 
let them cool in their own liquor. 
Caur’s Chitterlings stewed.—Cut a 
ealf’s nut, lengthways, in slices about 
an inch wide; take some ham, bacon, 
white part of chickens, and cut them in 
the same way; put them into a stewpan 
with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, and spice; 
then, having cleansed the guts, cut and 
tie them, fill them with the slices; line 
a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, 
pepper, salt, bay-leaf, and an onion, lay 
in the chitterlings, cover them with 
bacon and veal, pourin a pint of white 
wine, put the lid down quite close, and 
stew them with fire, above and below, 
for some time; then take out the pud- 
dings, and broil them in buttered papers. 
Catr’s Ears braised.*—Scald, blanch, 
and clean the ears thoroughly from the 
hair, and braise them in the following 
way: put some good stock into asmall 
saucepan, with half a pint of white wine, 
half a lemon sliced (withont the peel) a 
bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and some 
roots; stew the ears in this, and cover 
them with bacon. When done, serve 
with sauce piquante, or a la ravigotte. 
Catr’s Eurs, and Cheese.*—Prepare 


( 103 ) 


CAL 


halfa dozen ears, and boil them with half 
a glass of white wine, double the quan- 
tity of good stock, salt, pepper, parsley, 
green onions, garlic, two cloves, half a 
laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of 
butter. As soon as they are done, take 
out the ears and let them drain. Make 
a stuffing with a handful of dried bread- 
crumbs, halfa pint of milk, and a little 
gruyere cheese, grated; stir them over 
the fire until they thicken. When cold, 
add alittle butter and the yolks of four 
raw eggs; beatall up together, and fill 
the ears,and dip them into hot butter, 
Cover them with equal quantities of 
bread crumbs and grated cheese mixed 
together ; place them in a dish, and 
brown them. Serve without sauce. 

Caur’s Ears a I Italienne.*—Scald, &e. 
the calves ears, and boil them in flour 
and water, then put them into a stew- 

an lined with bacon, a bunch of sweet 

erbs, sliced lemon, moisten with equal 
parts of stock and white wine. Cover 
the whole with buttered paper ; boil them 
slowly for aa hour Are a half; drain, 
trim, and place them on a disb, with 
sauce @ l’Italienne. 

Caur’s Ears in Marinade.*¥—When you 
have prepared the number of ears you re- 
quire,boil them in some é/ane, and then 
throw them into cold water. When well 
drained cut each ear into three or four. 
pieces, put them into pickle made with 
vinegar, salt, and a bag of herbs; drain 
them again, and dip each piece into bat- 
ter, and fry of a good colour. Before you 
place them in a dish, they must be 
drained a third time. Garnish with 
fried parsley. 

Caur’s Hars in Pease. — When you 
have properly prepared four ears, cook 
them in alittle clear stock, lemon juice, 
salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley, cloves, 
garlic, and a jaurel leaf. When done, 
serve them with a ragout of pease, pre- 
pared as follows: puta pint and a half 
of pease with a bit of butter, a little para- 
ley, and green onions, and a pinch of 
flour, moisten with gravy and stock into 
a saucepan, over a_ gentle fire .unftl 
sufficiently done; put in a lump of sugar 
about the size of a walnut, a little salt, 
and aspoontul of cullis ; pour the whole 
over the ears. 

CauF’s Kars, Ragodt of, with Mush- 
roems.*—Prepare and dress the ears the 
same as for 7’ Italienne, and when done, 
drainand place them on your dish, for 
table. Trim, and toss up some mush-_ 
rooms in butter, to which add four large. 
spoonsful of velouté, and the same of con - 
sommé, reduce this to half; thicken it 
with the yolks of two eggs, and pour it 
over the ears. 


oe . 
rey 


CAL 


Catt’s Ears Stuffed.*—Scald two or 
three pair of calf’s ears, and having 
blanched, cool and singe them ; fill each 
ear with a good stuffing, press it in well ; 
dip the ears in egg, cover them with 
bread crumbs, fry them ofa nice brown ; 
serve with clear gravy. 

Catr’s: Kyes.—Clear away all the ime 
proper parts, blanch and cook them ina 
braise, made with white wine, stock, 
sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. When 
done they may be served with any kind 
of sauce you please. You may also fry 
them with bread crumbs, &c. 

Caur’s Feet Blanc-mange.— Pick all 
the black spots from two boiled feet, slice 
them into a stewpan, with a quarter ofa 
pintof Mountain wine, and rather more 
water; letthem stew gently; add the yolks 
of three eggs beaten and strained, witha 
quarter of a pint of cream and a little 

our, alittle lemon peel and juice, sweeten 


-with fine sugar, strain it into a dish. 


When nearly cold, stick on the top some 
jar raisins, scalded to make them plump. 
almonds blanched and cut into slips, 
citron, lemon and orange peel sliced. 
It may be put in a basin ; when cold turn 
it out. 

Caur’s Feet plain, botled.* — Clean 
and skin the feet well ; take out the large 
bones, boil them till tender, and serve 
with salt, pepper, vinegar, and sweet 
herbs. ‘ 

Catr’s Feet Broth.—Boil the feet in 
as much water as will make a good jelly, 
then strain, and setthe liquor on the fire 
again with a little mace in it; put about 
half a pint of sack to two quarts of the 
broth ; add half @ pound of currants; 
beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them 
with a little of the cold liquor, and 
thicken carefully over a slow fire; pnt in 
a little salt, and then sweeten to your 
taste ; stir in a small piece of butter, and 
just before you take it off, put to it the 
juice and peel of a fresh lemon. 

Caur’s Feet Fried.* — Divide four 
calves’ feet each in half, and boil them in 
flour and water. Then soak them in 
butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, 
vinegar, garlic, shalot, parsley, green, 
onions, thyme, laurel and parsley. After 
they have laid some hours in this, take 
them out,cover them well with flour and 
fry them. Serve with fried parsley. 

Caur’s Feet, and Chaudron a I’ Ita- 
Henne.*—Make astuffing with the crumb 
of a small loaf, a pound of suet, an onion, 
parsley, pepper, salt, garlic, and eight or 
ten eggs ; put this into the chaudron, and 
tieit up. Putthe feet intoa deep stew- 
pan, over a slow. fire, till the bones are 
loose, then put in two quarts of green 
pease, and add the yolks of two eggs, and 


( 104 ) 


CAL 

the juice of a lemon, and season it with 
pepper, salt, mace, onion, parsley,’ and 
garlic. Put the chaudron in the middle 
of your dish, and the calf’s feet round. 
Garnish with fried suckers, and sliced 
onions. ae aha: AT 

Catr’s Feet Jelly.—Take the fat and 
bones from eight calves’ feet, and soak 
them in water for three or four hours 5 
then boil them in six quarts of water, 
skimming often; when reduced to 4 
third, strain and set it by to cool; when 
cold, take every particle of fat from the 
top, and remove whatever may have 
settled at the bottom. Dissolve 1t in an 
earthen pan, adding to it two quarts of 
white wine, mace, cinnamon, and ginger, 
or not, as you please. Heat up the 
whites of twelve eggs with three ‘pounds 
of fine sugar, mix these with the jeliy. 
boil it gently, adding the juice of two 
lemons, and then strain it for use. 

Another Way.—Boil four quarts of 
water with three ecalf’s feet, till half 
wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and 
sediment, and mix with it the juice of a 
Seville orange and twelvé lemons, the 
peels of three, the whites and shells of 
twelve eggs, brown sugar to faste, about 
a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of cori- 
ander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of 
allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six 
cloves, all bruised and previously mixed 
together. Boil it a quarter of an hour 
without stirring ; then clear it through 
a flannel bag. While running, take a 
little of the jelly, and mix with a tea-cup- 
ful of water, in which beet-root has been 
boiled, run this through the bag when 
all the rest is done, this forms a garnish 
for the other. 

Caur’s Feet Jelly.—Wash and set on 
the fire in cold water, four calf’s feet. 
observing when they begin to boil, to 
skim it well ; set them bythe side of ahot 
stove to boil gently for several hours ; 
when all the bones are separated, pass 
the liquor through a silk sieve, into 4 
large basin or] pan; when cold, and a 
jelly, take all the fat from the top, wipe 
it well off with paper, that not the least 
particle remain, then set it on the fire 
again to boil, skim it well, take it off, 
and let it stand while you beat up the 
whites of six eggs in a large stewpan, to 
which put a very small bit oflemon peel 
and the juice of four lemons, clarifie 
sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a 
bottle of bucellas wihe; mix them well 
together, and examine the jelly that no 
fat may remain : if there should, take it 
off the fire, and pour it in thé stewpan, 
with the wine and other things, set it on 
the fire and continue stirring it till it 
boils, and let it boil very gently for three 








blr We F (105 ) CAL 


or four hours. Have your jelly-bag 
washed very clean, place it in the stand 
‘Over a large basin, and when the jelly is 
ready, runit through several times, till 
it looks clear and bright; when all is 
through, set it over the fire once more 
till you see a white scum rise, skim that 
off, and when the jelly begins to boil it 
is ready to put into mould. You may 
garnish your jelly as you fill it up, with 
different kinds of grapes, &c. placed in 
the mould. 

_Cautr’s Feet Pie.— Boil the feet in 
three quarts of water, with three or four 
blades of mace, gently, till reduced to 
half, then take out the feet and drain 
them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and 
when you have boned the feet, put half 
the meat in it, strew over half a pound of 
currants, and half a pound of raisins 
stoned; lay on the rest of the meat, skim 
the liquor they are boiied in, sweeten 
and add toit half a pint of white wine. 
Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, 
and bike it an hour and a half. 

. Caur’s Feet d la Poulette.* — Bone 
the feet, and when boiled, cutthem into 
Smal! pieces, and put them into a sauce- 
pan with a bit of butter, mushrooms, 
pulses, green onions, garlic shalots, 
aurel leaf, thyme, basil, and cloves. 
Warm thei over the fire; put ina little 
flour, a glass of white wine, the same of 
stock, season with salt and pepper. Boil 
it for half an hour over a gentle fire, 
when reduced to half, take out the herbs 
and add the yolks of three eggs diluted 
with a spoonful of vinegar, and one of 
stock, Thicken without boiling it, and 
serve quick. 

JALF’s Feet @ la Provengale.* — Soak 
some boiled calf’s feet in a little olive 
oil, lemon juice, and a glass of good 
stock, stew them over a slow fire until 
quite tender. Then work up a little 
butter and flour, and doit over the fire 
to colour, then put in the feet, add a 

ounded anchovy, and some more lemon 
juice, boil all together a quarter of an 
hour, and serve very hot. 

_ Caur’s Feet Pudding. —Mince a pound 
of calf’s feet fine, first taking out the 
fat and the brown, mix with it a pound 
and a half of shred suet, the crumb of a 
small roll grated, the yolks of six, and 
the whites of three eggs well beaten, 
sufficient milk to moisten it, and sugar 
to your taste. Boil it nine hours; serve 
with melted butter, white wine, and 
sugar. 

Caur’s Feet Reasted. — Blanch and 
boil the feet till tender, then let them 
cool. When cold lard them with small 
pieces of bacon, tie thera ona spit and 
roast them; serve them with a sauce 


- 


made of butter, vinegar, and cinnamon, 


beaten up thick. 

Caur’s Feet Farces en Soleil. — Pre- 
pare the calf ’s feet, take out the bone as 
far as the joint, and stew them. When 
done, set them to drain. Then take a 
little furce fine, leaving out the eggs, and 
atuff the middle of each foot, making 
them as round as you can3 dip them 
first into an omelet, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, and then twice into bread 
crumbs, and fry them of a five biown. 
Garnish with fried parsley very green, 
and send up with them brown sharp 
sauce. 

_Caur’s Feet Stewed. — Divide each 
foot into four pieces, put them to stew 
with half a pint of water, with a potatoe, 
an onion (peeled, and sliced thin) pep- 
per, and salt, simmer these ingredients 
tor two hours gently. 

CautF’s Head.—Clean it very nicely, 
and soak it in water, that it may look 
very white; take out the tongue to salt, 
and the brains to make a little dish. 
Boil the head extremely tender, then 
strew it over with bread crumbs and 
parsley chopped, and brown it. Serve 
with bacon and greens. Boilthe brains, 
and mix them with melted butter, scald- 
ed sage chopped, pepper and salt; lay 
them on a dish, and the tongue in the 
middle. 

Catr’s Head ad la Bourgeoise.*—— 
Cleanse and scald a fine calt’s head, skin 
it carefully, then take out the brains, 
tongue and eyes, and cut the cheeks from 
the bones; make a force-meat with the 
brains, some fi'let of veal, beef suet, salt, 
pepper, shred parsley, green onions, 
thyme, basil, half a bay leaf, two spoons- 
ful of brandy and three eggs. Then 
parboil the tongue, eyes (naving re- 
moved the black part), and the cheeks, 
hash them, and put them with the force- 
meat into the skin which was taken from 
the head, sew it up, and shape it to its 
natural form; put it in, a vessel just 
large enough to hold it, with half a pint 
of white wine, a pint of stuck, parsley, 
onions, garlic, cloves, pepper and salt. 
Stew it gently for three hours, drain off 
the fat and dry it, and take out the 
thread. Strain the liquor it was stewed 
in, and add to it some cullis and a little 
vinegar, reduce it and pour it over the 
head. Serve it ona napkin. This may 
be brought to table cold; it must then 
be stewed with more white wine, and less 
stock. ‘ 

CauF’s Head Collared.—Scald the skin 
off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take 
out the brains. Boil tender enough to 
remove the bones; then have ready a 
good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, 


CAL 


ntitmeg, salt and white pepper well 
mixed 3 season it high with these; put a 
thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of 
thick slices of ham, or a fine coloured 
tongue skinned, and the yolks of six 
éges stuck about init. Roll the head 
quite close, and tie it up as tight as you 
can, put acloth round, and tie it with 
tape, Boil, and then laya weixht on it. 

Caur’s Head Collared like Brawn.— 
Scald the head till the hair comes clean 
eff, then cut it in two, and take out the 
brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, 
aiid boil it till the bones come out. Slice 
the tongue and ears, and lay them all 
even. Throwa handful of salt on them, 
and roll it up quite close, as other col- 
lars. Boil it two hours. When cold 
lay it in a brawn pickle. 

Catr’s Head a la Détiller.*-—Take a 
very delicate calf’s head;; bone, soak, and 
blanch it; take out the brains, and let 
them soak also ; boil in a d/ane for three 
quarters of an hour. When the head is 
eold, dry itina cloth, singe, and cut it 
in pieces, leaving the eyes and ears 
whole; collect the pieces and tie them 
so that they keep the original shape, rub 
it with lemon, and boil it for three hours 
in a lane; then take it cut, untie and 
dish it, place the brains at each end of 
the dish, and cut the tongue into square 
pieces the size of dice, and put them into 
a sauce made as follows; puta ladle full 
of espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, 
six allspice bruised, and six spoonsful of 
consommé, reduce these to half,and then 
put in the pieces of tongue, some mush- 
rooms and gherkins cut into littlesticks 5 
pour this sauce over the head. 

Caur’s Head, the Dutch WVay.—Lay 
halfa pound of Spanish pease in water 
for twelve hours: then mix them witha 
pound of whole rice, and having put a 
ealf’s head, properly prepared, into a 
deep dish, lay the pease and rice round 
it; pour two quarts of water over, season 
it vith pepper and salt, colour it with 
saffron, and bake it. 

Catr’s Head, (Old Fashion.) — Boil 
the head till the tongue will peel; then 
divide the head, and cut the meat from 
one half into pieces the size of oysters, 
(setting the brains aside) and stew them 
in strong gravy, and a quarter of a pint 
of claret, a lemon peel, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a little sliced onion and nutmeg} 
stew these tender. In the mean time 
slash the other half head, lard it, wash 
it over with yolks of eggs, strew over it 
grated bread, sweet herbs, and lemon- 
peel, and broil it; when done lay it ona 
dish, and having added to the stewed 
meat a pint of gravy, three anchovies, 
mushrooms, capers, butter, and a pint 


( 106 ) 


CAL 

of stewed oysters, pour them found the 
broiled head. Garnish it with the tongue 
cut into thin round slices, the brains in 
cakes, bacon, oysters’ and force+-meat 
balls, all nicely fried; barberries and 
horse-radish laid on the edge of the dish,. 
and serve it up. _ Kenney 


Caur’s Head Fried.*—Cut a cold calf’s. 


head ints middling sized pieces, and put 
intoajar ; pour on them a marinade; 
when they have thoroughly imbibed the 
flavour. drain them, dip each piece in 
batter, and [ry them. Do not let the oil, 
or lard they are fried in be too hot. 
Catr’s Head, German Way.—Take a 
large calf’s head, with great part of the 
neck cut with it; split it in half, blanch 
it, and*take out the jaw-bone. Lay 
slices of bacon at the bottom of the stew- 
pan, then thin beef-steaks, with pepper 
and salt; put in the head, pour beef 
gravy over it; add a large onion, stuck 
with cloves, anda bunch of sweet herbs 5 
cover it close, and let it stew on a stove. 
Make a ragoidt, with a quart of beef 
gravy, half a pint of red wine, some 
sweetbreads parboiled, and cut in slices, 
some cock’s-combs, oysters, mushrooms, 
truffles and morels; stew them till ten- 
der. When the head is done, put itin 
a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, and 
the bones; slit the tongue, cut it into 
small pieces, do the same with the eyes, 
and chop the brains; put these into a 
baking-dish, and pour some of the ragodt 
over them; then put the head, and pour 


the rest of the ragofit over it, and melted. 


butter, and over that, scraped Parmesan 
cheese. Colour it a fine brown in the 
oven. . - 

Caur’s Head hashed.—Boil the head 
almost enough, and take the. meat of the 
best side neatly from the bone, and lay 
itin asmall dish; wash it over with the 
yolks of two eggs, and cover it with 
crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a 
little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed 
toyether previously. Set the dish before 
the fire, and keep turning it now and 
then, that all parts may be equally 
brown. In the mean time slice the re- 
mainder of the head, and the tongue, 
(peeled); put a pint of good gravy into 
a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of 
herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, sa- 
vory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, anda 
little thyme), a little salt and cayenne, 
a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little 
oyster liquor : boil this for a few minutes, 
and strain it upon the meat, which must 
be sprinkled with flour. Addsome fresh 
or pickled mushrooms, a few truffles and 
morels, and two spoonsful of ketsup; 
beat up half the brains, and put them to 
the rest, with a bit of butter and flour. 


3 = eee 








- 
' 





GA ly, ( 107 ) CAL 


| till thick; be careful not to let it boil, 
of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a | after the eges are added. Serve witha 
little nutmeg and mace, some parsley | little lemon-juice or vinegar. ‘ 
Shred, and an egg; fry this in little cakes | | CaLr’s Head au Pucts Certain.*—Take 
of a fine gold colour; dip some oysters | the meat from a calf’s head, leaving on 
into the yolk of an egy, and fry the same | the eyesand the brains; soak it well; take 
Way, also some good forcemeat-balls, and | off the end of the snout, the cheek-bones, 
garnish the dish with them. -and those of the tongue; put the head 
Caur’s Head a la Sainte Menehoult*— | into cold water ; and when it has boiled 
Take out the jaws, and cut off the snout | once, take it off, drain, and cool it.. Cut 
close to the eyes; put it. in a stewpan | the meat into round pieces, the size of a 
over the fire, and when you have skim- | crown piece, (leave the tongue and ears 
med it quite clean, add to it parsley, | whole), rubeach bit with lemon, and boil 
Onions, garlic, cloves, a laurel leaf, | them in a blame, wrap the bones in a 
thyme, basil, salt and pepper. When | cloth, and put that in also; in proper 
done, take out the benes that are over | time take itout, drain and lay it on a 
the brains, place it on a dish, with the | plate: open the head, clean the brain, 
following sauce: mix a piece of butter | and fill it with some quenelles of veal, 
the size of an egg, with some flour, salt, | mixed with mushreoms, sweetbreads and 
pepper, the yolks of three eggs, two| truffles, cut in dice; arrange this stuffing 
spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of | so as to make the head its original form 3 
stock ; thicken these overthe fire. When | wrap it in a pig’s caul, and bake it. 
this is done, pour iton the head, cover it | When done, piace it in the middle of a 
with bread crumbs, baste it with butter; | dish, with the ears and pieces of tungue 
brown it with a Salamander ; drain the | round. Serve it with a good financiére, 
fat from it, and serve with sauce p7-| with cray fish, and pimento butter. 
quante. Catr’s Head Roasted.—Cleanse thehead 
Caur’s Head Pie.--Stew a knuckle of | well; bone, and dry it. Make a geason- 
veal till fit for eating, with two.enions, a | ing of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nutmeg, 
little isinglass, or a calf’s foot, a bunch | cloves, some fat bacon, cut very small, 
of herbs, mace, salt and pepper, in three | and grated ; strew it over the head, rol! 
Pints of water: keep this, when very | it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast 
good, to put in the pie. Half boil a head, | and baste it with butter. Make a rich 
and cut it into squere bits; puta layer | veal gravy, thickenea with butter rolled 
of ham at the bottom of the dish, then | in floer; you may add mushrooms and 
some head, first fat and then lean, with | oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. 
forcemeat balls and hard eges, cut in Caur’s Head roasted with Oysters.— 
half, then ham, and so on, till the dish | Prepare a head_as for boiling; take out 
be full; the pieces must not be too close: | the tenzue and brains, parboil them; 
season to your taste, with pepper, salt, | blanch the tongue, and minee both with 
and nutmeg. Pour in some of the above- | a little sage, beef suet or marrow, a few 
mentioned broth, and cover it with crust; | oysters, four or five egg yolks beaten 
bake it in a slow oven; and when done, | salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated 
pour into it as much broth as_it will pos- | bread; parboiland dry thehead 5 fill the 
sibly hold, and donot cut it till quite cold. | skull and mouth with tie above ingre- 
' This pie may be eaten hot, if seasoned | dients, and oysters, tie it up, and roast 
high, and with the addition of mushrooms, | it; preserve its gravy, and put it, with 
truffles, morels, &c. |} some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and 
Catr’s Head a la Potiyrade.—Bone a | sweet herbs minced, over a chafing dish ; 
scalded head as far as the eyes, and boil | add buiter, lemon-juice and salt, beat it 
it with some pickled pork, both of which, | up thick; dish the head, and serve it 
when done, must be served in the same | with the sauce over it. 
dish: boil balf a glass of vinegar, the Caur’s Head Svused.—Scald and bone 
same of stock, chopped shalots, and |a_ calt’s head, and soak it for seven or 
whole onions; strain it, and add pepper | eight hours, changing the water twice ; 
and salt; pour this over the head, and } dry it well. Season with salt and bruised 
serve with sauce @ la poivrade, garlic; rollit up, bind it very tight, ard 
- Caur’s Head a la Poulette.*—Toss up | boil it in white wine, salt and water; 
some sweet herbs in a little butter, then | when done, put it, with the liquor, in a 
add to them a little stock, salt, and pep- | pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either 
r; boil these a quarter of an hour: | whole, or imslicés, with oil, vinegar, and 
eae cut a cali’s head in pieces, as for | pepper. 
frying; put them into the sauce, and boil | Caur’s Head Stewed.*—Wash_a calf’s 
them slowly, till hot; just before serv- | head perfectly clean for an hour, in water, 
ing, put in two or three eggs, and stirit | and then bone it with the greatest care ; 









Simmer the whole. Beat the other part 











CAL 


_ take out the tongue and eyes; chop up 
two pounds of veal, and the same of beef- 
suet, thyme, lemon- peel, and two ancho- 
vies, with a nutmeg, and two stale rolls 
grated ; mix these together, with the yolks 
of four eggs, a pint of fresh mushrooms, 
the yolks of six eggs chopped, and half a 
pint of stewed oysters; put this force- 
meat into the head, close, and tie it up 
tight. Put it into a stewpan, with two 
quarts of gravy, and a little mace ; cover 
the pan close, and let it stew for two 
hours. In the mean time, beat up the 
brains with shred parsley, lemon-peel, 
halfa nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an 
egg; fry half these in little cakes, with 
the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. 
Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, 
and boil it with half an ounce of truffles 
and morels, and a few mushrooms; add 
the remainder of the brains, stew all 
together for a minute or two, then pour 
it over the head, and lay the fried brains 
and forcemeat balls round; fry a few 
oysters, and place them on the head. 
Garnish with lemon. 

Catr’s Head Stuffed.*—Bone a calf’s 
head with great care, let the eyes remain 
in their proper places; soak it, and then 
having blanched it, lay it in cold water; 
dry and singe it. Make some godiveau, 
and when about three parts done, put in 
two spoonsful of reduced velouté, and 
rather more spice, shred parsley, and 
shalots, than usual. Fill the head with 
this, and press it into its original form, 
sew it up, and rub it all over with lemon. 
Take a clean fine cloth, spread thin slices 
of bacon over it, lay the head in them; 
wrap the cloth round, and tie it up tight. 
Put it intoa braising pan, take a bit of 
butter, some grated bacon, four carrots, 
five onions, three cloves, three bay- 
leaves, a little thyme, two lemons sliced, 
leaving out the seeds and the white; eo 
these over the fire, and when they he- 
come dry, moisten them with two bottles 
of white wine: add salt and pepper; 
boil this sauce, and put it into the brais- 
ing-pan with the head, which should sim- 
mer forthree hours,with fire above and be- 
lew 5. at the end of that time fee] the head 
with your finger, and if it be still firm, let 
it remain some time longer; when sufh- 
ciently done, take it out by the ends of the 
cloth, untie,and let it drain. Dish it, and 
pour.on it the following ragotit: put four 
Jadlesful of grande espaguole, a bottle of 
‘white wine, and two ladlesful ef con- 
sommé into a saucepan, and reduce them 
to half, then strain it into another sauce- 
pan, in which are some bills of godiveuu, 
artichokes cooked in a 4/ane, mushrooms, 
sweethreads cut in pieces. and cray-fish ; 
keep this hot until the head should he 


€ 163.).. 


CAL 


sent to table, when the ragodit must be’ 


poured over it. i 

Caur’s Head Surprise.—Raise the skin, 
and as much meat as you can from half a 
calf’s head ; make a forcemeat as follows : 
beat up in a mortar half a pound of veal, 
a pound of beef suet, half a pound of fat 
bacon, the crumb of a small loaf, sweet 


herbs, shred PN cloves, nutmeg. 


mace, salt, and cayenne pepper, bind 
these together with the yolks of four 
eggs; stuff the skin with this, so that it 
may appear as if the bones were in; tie 
and skewer it tight, and put it intoa deep 
pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint 
of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, an anchovy, two spoorsful 
of walnut and mushroom ketsup, the 
same oflemon-pickle, salt, and pepper 5 
cover the whole with a common paste, 
and bake it in a quick oven. When done, 
lay the head in a soup-dish; take the fat 
from the gravy, and strain it into a stew- 
pan; add to it a bit of butter, rolled in 
flour, and when it has boiled a few mi- 
nutes, the yolks of four eggs, and half a 
pint of cream; pour this over the head. 


Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, 


truffles, morels, and mushrooms, . 
Caur’s Head auVerd Galant.—Soak 
the head twenty-four hours, bone and 
scald it in boiling water; then boil it in 
vinegar and water, with reots, herbs, and 


spices$ cut it in pieces, roll it in batter 


made of oil, white wine, salt and parsley, 
and fry of a good colour, and crisp. Serve 
with fried parsley. 

Caur’s Heart Roasted.-—Fill the heart 
with the following forcemeat: a quarter 
of a pound of beef-suet, chopped small, 
grated bread, parsley, marjeram, lemon- 
peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk 
ofanegg. Jaya veal-caul, or a sheet of 
paper on the stuffing to keepit in its 
place. Put the heart intoa Duch oven, 
before a clear fire, and turn it frequently, 
till thoroughly roasted all round. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon, and pour melt- 
ed butter over it. 

Caur’s Liver en Balottes*—Mince and 
season a calf’s liver. Soak a calf’s caul 
or chaudren in hot water till soft, and then 
cut it into small square pieces, ih each 
of which put some of the minced liver,’ 
about equal to the size of a hen’s ege; 
draw up the corners of the caul, and 
make them into balls. Wash them over 
with white of egg; strew bread crumbs 
over, and broil them. oo 

Catr’s Liver & la Bourgeoise.*—Cut a 


calf’s liver into slices, and put it into a. 


pan with some chepped shalots, a bit of 
butter, salt, pepper; stew it gently. 
When ready to serve, put in a spoonful. 


of vinegar. 


ee ee earn ee ee we eee 


Se ee a ee 


— 








CAL ( 109 ) CAL 


* Carr’s Liver @ la Bourgeotse.—Cuta 
calf’s liver in slices, and put it in a stew- 
pan, with shalot, parsley, and green 
onions, cut small, and a piece of butter 5 
shake it over the fire, and dredge ina 
little flour: moisten with a tumblerful of 
water, and as much of white wine, salt 
and pepper; boil it for half an hour. 
When quite done, and the sauce nearly 
consumed, put in the yolks of three eggs, 
previously beaten with two spoonsful of 
vinegar; thicken it over the fire, and 
serve.  &, 

' Teip, Third Way.—tLard a calf’s liver 
with bacon, previously rolled in shred 
parsley, salt and pepper. Make a roux 
with some butter, flour, stock, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, a few carrots, rind of 
bacon, pepper and salt. Boil this for 
two hours, and then put in the liver, with 
a glass of red wine; another hour will 
do it. Strain the sauce over it before 
you serve, : 

Caur’s Liver @ ia Braise.*—Lard a 
calf’s liver with bacon, seasoned with 
garlic, fine herbs, saltand pepper. Put 
it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint 
of water, some slices of bacon, part of a 
calf’s foot, a bunch of parsley, onions, 
thyme, and bay leaves, salt, pepper, and 
spices, an onion stuck with cloves, and 
halfa giass of wine. Cover the stewpan 
perfectly close. When it begins to boil, 
cover the fire with hot cinders, and let 
the liver continue stewing gently by it 
for three or four hours. To prevent its 
burning, lay sticks across the bottom of 
the pan, and put the liver on it; strain 
off the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve 
cold, in its own jelly. 

Caur’s Liver a la Brochette.*—Cut a 
calf’s liver into slices, about the size of a 
crown piece, cut some bacon in the same 
manner; place them alternately (be- 
ginning with the bacon) on_ skewers, 
seven or eight inches long. Dip them 
into hot broth or soup; sprinkle them 
with bread crumbs, and broil them of a 
gold colour. 

Caur’s Liver Brotled.—Slice it, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, and broil 
nicely: rub a bit of cold butter on it, 
and serve hot and hot. 

Caur’s Liver Cake.*—Mince and 
pound together acalf’s liver, half a 
pound ofsuet, and halfa pound of bacon 5 
then mix them with some chopped onions 
atid mushrooms, tossed up in butter, the 
yolks of six eggs, the whites well whisked, 
salt, pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line 
an irom saucepan with slices of bacon, 
place the above preparation, and some 
sliced‘truffles on them, and cover the 
whole with bacon; put the saucepan on 
@ gentle fire, wit: ashes on the lid. 





_ When done, take it off, let it cool in the 


saucepan. Dip'it in boiling water, Joosen 
the cake, turn it on a dish, and remove 
the bacon from it; sprinkle it with rasp 
ings, and serve it. 

Catr’s Liver Cake Cold.*—Pound a 
calf’s liver, an equal quantity of bacon, 


| and afourth part of boiled ham, pass them 
| through a guenelles sieve, intoa pan with 


a cold boiled calf’s udder, an equal pro- 
portion of tongue @ l’écarlate, trufiles, 
and mushrooms, cut into dice: mix with 
them eight eggs, a glass of brandy, and 
season the whole with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. Finish your cake as above, 
and bake it four hours in a moderate 
oven. Let it cool before you turn it cut; 
remove the bacon, trim and glaze the 
cake with veal jelly ; with which garnish 
your cake. 

Caur’s Liver Cake Hot.*—Pound a 
calf’s liver, and an equal quantity of 
calf’s udder, as above, put them into a 
pan; cut some onion into dice, scald and 
toss it up in alittle butter and consommé, 
and when cold, mix it with the liver, 
udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more 
udder cut in dice ; stir in eight eggs, one 
at a time; the whole being well mixed, 
put it into a plain round mould, well 
buttered, cover it with a round piece of 
buttered paper, and let itstand in a bain 
marze with hot ashes under and over, for 
two hours. When ready to serve, turn 
it on the dish for table, drain away the 
water, glaze it. Serve it hot, with a 
pepper sauce. 

Catr’s Liver en Crépine.*—Cut two 
large onions into dice, and toss them over 
the fire witha bit of butter, mince a calt’s 
liver, and three quarters of a pound of 
beef suet ; then put them into a mortar, 
with the onions, some dried bread 
crumbs, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, 
mushroom, four yolks of eggs, and four 
whites whipt, pound these together well. 
Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a 
stewpan, and over them a pig’s caul, pre- 
viously soaked in cold water, squeezed 
quite dry with the hand, put all the 
pounded materials in this, wet the edges 
with white of egg to make them unite; 
place a sheet of paper over it, and cover 
the pan close; stew it gently in hot cin- 
ders for half an hour, then drain the fat 
from it, wipe the caul carefully with a 
linen cloth, and then [place it in your 
dish, serve with clear sauce, adding to it 
a little verjuice. 

Catr’s Liver al’ Etouffé.*—Lard a fine 
calf’s liver, and. soak it in white wine for 
aday. Line astewpan with thin slices 
of bacon and beef; put in salt, pepper, 


fine herbs, spices, sliced onions, carrots, 


Perens scallions, parsley, chopped, put 








} 
; 


CAL 


the liveron this, ard cover it in the same 

manner 3 moisten it with stock, and two 

glasses of white wine; you may add slices 

of lemon, stew it gently, with fire above 

and below. When done, serve with it 
herkins, a ragofit of cucumbers, or en- 
ive. 

Caur’s Liver Haslets.—Cut the liver 
in pretty large pieces, marinate it with 
butter, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, 
chopped; leave it some time over a very 
slow fire, then roll several pieces in veal 
caul, with as much sauce as possible; 
tie it upon a large skewer, with thin 
slices of bacon round, and roast. Serve 
it with any relishing sauce. 

Caur’s Liver a l’Italienne.*—Cut a 
ealf’s liver in thin slices, with parsley, 
scallions, mushrooms, half a clove of 
garlic, two shallots, all chopped fine, half 
a bay leaf, thyme, basil pounded. Puta 
layer of the liver at the bottom of a stew- 
pan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of 
the above seasoning, then another layer 
of liver, season as before, and so on till 
you have used al! your liver. Stew it 
for about an hour, and then take it out 
with a skimmer; clear away the fat from 
the sauce, and put in a bit of butter, and 
a little verjuice or vinegar, thicken it 
over the fire, stirring it constantly. Put 
the liver into this to heat it again, and 
then serve. 

Caur’s Livre dad la Mariniere.*—Cut a 
calf’s liver into thick slices, brown them 
in a pan with a little butter; turn them 
that both sides may be weil coloured; 
then add pepper, salt, tarragon, and 
herbs; dredge flour over them, and 
moisten with wine: boil ita few minutes, 
and place it on a very hot dish. Garnish 
with mushrooms, truffles, and morels or 
capers. 

Catr’s Liver en Poupée.*—Prepare 
the liver as for en Balottes, only form 
them into balls the size of a walnut; 
flatten them to the thickness of balf an 
inch, wash them with white of egg, and 
bread them. Put them on skewers like 
haslets, with bacon between. Roast or 
bake a quarter of an hour. 

Caur’s Liver Puddings.—Cut part ofa 
ealf’s liver into dice, mince the rest with 
hog’s fat (one-third more), season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, cinnamon 
and cloves pounded, and sweet herbs; 
bind them with the yolks of six eggs, 
and a quart of cream: put them into 
skins, like black puddings, and boil them 
over a Slow fire in white wine, with salt 
and bay leaves; let them cool in this 
liquor, and wher wanted, broil, and serve 
them very hot. 

Caur’s Liver Roasted.—Wasb and wipe 
it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it 


(110 ) 


CAL 


with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, 
a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg; sew 
the liver up; lard it, wrap it in a veal 
caul, and roast it. Serve with good 
brown gravy and currant jelly. pact) 

Another way.*—Lard a calf’s liver with 


streaky bacon; roast and baste it fre- 


quently with its own gravy. Site 

Third way.*—Lard a fine calf’s liver, 
and pickle it in vinegar, with an onion, 
cut into slices, parsley, salt, pepper, 
thyme, and a bay leaf. When it has 
been soaked for twenty-four hours, fasten 
it on a spit, roast, and baste it frequently. 
Glaze it with a light glaze, as it is na- 
turally ef a black colour. Serve under it 
a brown poivrade. ‘ 

Catr’s Liver Sausages.—These are 
made in the same way as other sausages. 
The meat used gives the name. . 

Caur’s Liver Sauté.*—Cut a calf’s 
liver in slices, about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and make each slice of an oval 
form, when thus prepared, season them 
with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet 
herbs ; put half a pound of butter into 
your tossing-pan and warm it, then lay in, 
your liver, and as soon as ene side is 
brown, turn it and do the other ; when. 
all are done, put them into a saucepan, 
take the butter from the tossing-pan, and 
put into it a glass of champagne, four 
ladlesful of espagnole, reduce them to 
half, strain it over your liver, and heat. 
(without boiling) the whole together. 


Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the - 


sauce over. 

CauFr’s Liver Scolloped.—Take a very 
nice white liver, cat it in slices, pared 
in the shape of hearts. Then stew some 
fine herbs, parsley, shalots, and mush-_ 
rooms, for a little time; toss up the 
liver in it, over a gentle fire, season it, 
and when done on one side, turn it on 
the other. Dish the liver; puta little 
flour with the herbs, moisten them with 
alittle gravy and broth, and let them 
stew for ten minutes. Squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that 
you have dished en miraton. 

Caur’s Liver Stewed.*—Cut a very 
good calf’s liver into slices an inch a 
melt some butter in a frying-pan, an 
then put in the liver, and brown it well. 
on both sides, season it well. 
from the pan, and set it to stew with the ° 
butter, and chopped parsley, scallions, 
shalots, garlic, and alittle flour; moisten > 
it with halfa pint of wine; give the sauce 
a boil, and when ready to serve, add a_ 
little vinegar. ; 

Caur’s Liver Stuffed.*—Take a very 
fine calf’s liver, and lard it with large 
pieces of bacon, seasoned with four sorts 


ee ee ee 


Take it - 











CAL 


of spice, pepper, salt, shred parsley, and 
Onions: lay slices of bacon at the bottom, 


‘and round, a braising or stewpan, putin 


the liver, with four carrots, four onions, 


one of them stuck with cloves, three 
‘bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of 


parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle 
of white wine, cover it with bacon and 
paper, and place it over a stove; when 


‘it boils, cover the stove, put the pan on 


again with ashes on the lid, let it simmer 
for two hours. When done, strain the 
liquor, and put four spoonsful of it with 
four of potvrade, reduce them to half, 
and pour this sauce over the liver. 
Catr’s Pluck &@ la Bourgevise.—The 
pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, 
and spleen, cut these in pieces, soak them 
well in cold water, and blanchthem; then 
put them ina stewpan,a little butter, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs, add a little flour, 
and moisten with stock. When done, 
and well flavoured, put to it the yolks of 
three eggs, diluted with milk, thicken it 
over the fire, and when ready to serve, 


‘put in a little verjuice. 


Another way.— Boil the lights and part 
of the liver, roast the heart stuffed with 
Suet, sweet herbs, parsley, all chopped 
Small, a few crumbs, some pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, and a little lemon peel; mix it 
with the yolk cf an egg. When the 
lights and liver are boiled, chop them 
very small, and put them in a saucepan 
with a bit of butter rolied in flour, some 
ase and salt, with a little vinegar or 

emon-juice; fry the other part of the 
liver with some slices of bacon, lay the 
mince at the bottom, the heart in the 
middle, the fried liver and bacon round, 
with crisped parsley. Serve with plain 
butter. 

Caur’s Tails.—Must always be scald- 


‘ed; if for fricandeaua, lard and braise 


them ; they may then be served with any 
sauce, and in any way you choose. 


- Catr’s Tails au Blanc.*—Prepare some | 


ealf’s tails as en Terrine, and having 
mixed the flour with them, moisten with 


“water; put to them a bunch of parsley 


and scallions, two bay leaves, mush- 
rooms, salt and a little pepper; skim as 
directed in the above-mentioned re- 
ceipt; add some small onions, and let it 
simmer, but not boil. When ready to 
serve, thicken it with the yolks of four 
eggs. This ragoit may be made brown as 
wellas white; it is coloured with a roux. 

Catr’s Tails and Cabbages.—Scald 
calves’ tails and pickled pork, scald also 
a good savoy for about half an hour; take 
it out, press all the water from it, cut it 
in quiarters, tie it, and braise all together 
in stock, with slices of bacon, spices, 
and herbs. When done, take them out, 


C11.) 


CAN 


and clear away the fat. Serve with good 
thick cullis. 

Caur’s Tails en Macédoine.*—Take 
eight calves’ tails with their skins on, 
scald and blanch them; cut, and boil 
them in Madeira wine; when done, drain, 
and put them on the table-dish; garnish 
with veal sweetbreads @ la flamande, 
onions glazed, and mask each piece of 
the tails very carefully with a Macédoine. 

Caur’s Tails en Terrine.* — Divide 
seven or eight calves’ tails at the joints, 
toss them up in some butter, taking care 
not tocolour them ; then add four small 
spoonsful of flour, mix them well, and put 
in four ladlesful of consommé, and stir 
the ragofit till it boils, skim it well; pat 
to it a small basket of mushrooms, a 
bunch of parsley and some scallions. 
When it is about three parts done, skim 
off alj the fat, and when quite done, take 
out the pieces of tails, and the mush- 
rooms, with a spoon with holes in it, and 
put them in another saucepan ; add to 
the sauce a ladleful of velouté, and when 
properly reduced strain it over the tails; 
poach some veal quenelles, put them 
into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder 
of veal kernels, and veal sweetbreads cut 
in pieces, in a little butter, and having 
drained, put them also into the tureen. 
Thicken your ragoft with five yolks of 
eggs, Stir them in over the stove, but do 
not let it boil; as soon as you find it 
sufficiently thick, pour it into the tureen, 
over the gwenelle, and other articles, 
which must be kept hot. 

Car’s Tongue.*—Must hang till ten- 
der; lard and season it moderately, and 
boil it. They may be dressed in any 
form, and served with what sauce you 
please. 

Caur’s Tongues au Miroton.*—Prepare 
and lard as above, braise them. When 
done, and cold, cut them in slices, put 
them in a stewpan, with mushrooms and 
sweet herbs, moistened with veal gravy, 
or blond, when done, add a little vinegar. 

Caur’s Tongue, with Sauce Piquante.* 
—Soak eight calves’ tongues, and blanch 
them for a quarter ofan hour; then cool, 
trim, and lard them with well-seasoned 
bacon. Put the tonguesin a braise, or 
stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, 
thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. 
They will require three hours cooking. 
When done, take offthe skins, glaze, and 
place them round a dish, with an oval 
crodton in the centre. Serve with sauce 
piquante, 

CANAPES.* — Cut some slices, of 
bread about an inch thick, and having 
taken off the crusts, form the crumb into 
whatever shapes you may think proper ; 
such cal i ha squares, lozenges, &c. ; 


CAN 


fry them in good olive oil, to a nice co- 
lour, and drain them. ‘Take some an- 
chovies, hard eggs, (the yolks and whites 
separate), gherkins, eapers, &c. chop 
them. small, place them on the fried 
bread, (having previously seasoned them 
with salt and vinegar), and pour over 
the whole, and serve this as a side dish. 
Canares.*—Roll out three quarters of 
a pound of puff-paste, keeping it long and 
narrow; do net let it be more than a 
quarter of an inch thick, and about three 
inches wide. Cut the paste across with 
a sharp knife, in slips three-eighths of an 
inch in width, and place them on the 
cut side, on a baking-plate, each two 
inches apart; bake them in a hot oven, 
and when nicely coloured, sprinkle them 
with sugar, and glaze them. Wher done, 
remove them from the plate; and just 
before they are served, mask them with 
apricot marmalade, or any other you may 


like better, and arrange them on your. 


dish en couronne. 

Canares with Pistachios,*—Make the 
eaxapés according to the above direc- 
tions. When glazed, whip up the white 
of an egg with an ounce of fine sugar} 
cover the canapés with this, and then 
mask them with pistachio nuts, chopped 
smal]. Garnish them with apple-jelly. 
The canapés may be glazed and masked 
with any sort.of sweetmeat or jelly you 
may think proper to use. 

CANAPIES.—Cut some pieces of the 
crumb of bread about four inches long, 
three inches wide, and one inch thick, 
fry them in boiling lard, till of a light 
brown colour; then put them on a 
drainer, and cut into slips some breast 
of fowl, anchovies picked from the bone, 
pickled cucumbers, and ham or tongue, 
Then butter the pieces of bread on one 
side, and lay upon them alternately the 
different articles, till filled. Trim the 
edges, and put the pieces (cut into what 
form you please) upon a dish, with slices 
of lemon round the rim; and serve ina 


sauce-boat, a little mixture of oil, vine-. 


gar, cayenne pepper, and salt. 
CANARY (4rtifictal).— Fill a cask 
that has contained good Malaga wine 
with spring-water, and for each galloa 
of water, put six pounds of Malaga 
raisins bruised, and over every twenty 
gallons, sprinkle a bandful of calx-wine. 
Close the cask 5 cover it with cloths, and 
Jet it stand four or five days in a warm 
place to ferment; then open it, and 
should the raisins float, press them 
down ; cover it again, and let it stand a 
month, looking at it, and pressing down 
the raisins as above, every four or five 
days. At the month’s end, tap the vessel 
a few inches above the bottom, and if the 


( 112 ) 


CAN 


liquor is properly flavoured, draw ‘it off 
into another Malaga cask; and to every 
twenty gallons add a pint of brandy, a 
quart of Alicant wine, two eggs well 
beaten, and let it stand till fit for drink- 
ing. A little loaf-sugar may be added 
if not sufficiently sweet. Put into the 
whole a small quantity of white wine, or 
good cider,tomakeitbrisk. = ss’ 

CANDYING.— Fruit intended for 
candying must be first preserved, and 
dried in a stove before the fire, that none 
of the syrup may remain in it. Sugar 
intended for the use of candying must be 
thus prepared: put into a tossing-pan a 
pound of sugar, with half a pint of water, 
and set it over a very clear fire. Take 
off the scum as it rises; boil it till it 
looks clear and fine, and take out a-little 
in a silver spoon. When it is cold, if it 
will draw a thread from your spoon, it is 
boiled enough for any kind of sweetmeat. 
Then boil your syrup, and when it be- 
gins to candy round the edge of your 
pan, it is candy height. It is a great 
mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat 


into too thick a syrup, especially at the. 


first, as it withers the fruit, and both the 
beauty and flavour are thereby destroyed. 

Canpby (to), Flowers.—Take the best 
treble-refined sugar, break it into lumps, 
and dip it piece by piece into water ; put 
them into a vessel of silver, and melt 
them over the fire; when it just boils, 
strain it, and set it on the fire again, and 
let it boil till.it draws in hairs, which 
you may perceive ar holding up your 
spoon; then put in the flowers, and set 
them in cups or glasses. When it is ofa 
hard candy, break it in lumps, and lay 
it as high as you please. Dry it ina 
stove, or in the sun, and it will look like 
sugar-candy. 

Canpy (ail Sorts of Fruit). — When 
finished in the syrup,putalayer intoanew 
sauce, and dip it suddenly into het water, 
to take off the syrup that hangs about it; 
put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, 
and then do some more on the sieve. 


| Have ready-sifted double-refined sugar, 


which sift over the fruit on all sides, till 
quite white. Set it on the shallow end 
of the sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and 
turn it two or three times. it must 
not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, 
end it will be beautiful. jes 

CANELLONS.—Make a stiff paste, 
with a little melted butter, a spoonful or 
two of water, some rasped lemon-peel, 
an egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and 
half that quantity of sugar; roll it very 
thin; make a little cane of card-paper, 
butter it well on the outside, and wrap it 
in some of the paste; bake it a few mi- 
nutes; take out the card, and fill the 


_pie 5 





nine 








CAN ( 3) CAP 


paste with currunt jelly,or any other jelly 
or sweetmeat you please. 

~ Canne.ions’ Fried.*—Roll out some 
puff-paste very thin and long, moisten 
the surface lightly, and place along it, at 
equal distances, small He of apri- 
cot, peach, or any other marmalade; 
spread it about two inches and a half 
long, but not more than half an inch in 
width; turn the remainder of the paste 
over, press down the edges, then cut the 
cannellons, leaving a quarter of an inch 
beyond the marmalade each way; press 
the paste together all round, to keep in 
the preserve; and when all are cut, put 
- them into a pan and fry them; when 
done, drain them in a napkin, and sprin- 
kle them with powder-sugar. 

Cannetions Glacés.—Roll out some 
puff-paste thin, and about eighteen 
inches square, and cut it into twenty- 
four strips: have by you as many pieces 
of beech-wood turned, about six inches 
long, and three quarters of an inch in 
diameter, a degree less at one end than 
at the other. Sutter these pieces of 
wood, and having moistened your strips 
of paste, wind one round each of them, 
beginning at the smallest end, so as to 
form a sort of screw, four inches in 
length; lay them on_ baking-plates, 
pretty distant from each other, dorez 
and put them into a hot oven. When 
of a nice colour, sprinkle them with 
sugar, and glaze; as soon as you re- 
move them from the oven, take out the 
pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool 
slab. When wanted for table, fill them 
with apple or any other jelly you may 
chuse. j 

Cannetions Meringués* — Whip the 
whites of two eggs, and having mixed 
them with two spoonsful of powder- 
sugar, then mask the cannellons; when 
baked, crush a quarter of a pound of fine 
sugar, and roll the cannellons in it; re- 
place them afew minutes in the oven, 
and then finish. The masking of these 
cannellons may be varied according to 
taste, with pistachios, dried currants, 
&c. the former cut in ees the latter 
well washed, dried and mixed with an 
equal quantity of sugar. 

Cannetions a la Parisienne.*—Make 
twenty pannequets, garnish them with 
apricot or quince marmalade ; roll them 
as usual, and then cut each in half, trim, 
and dip them in eggs, like croquettes, 
bread and fry them. When done, glaze 
and serve them immediately. 

These cannellons may also be covered 
with creams, or preserves of any kind 
you please. 

Cannetions Pralinés with Filberts.*¥— 
Mince a quarter of a pound of filberts, 


and mix them with two ounces of powder 
sugar, and a very little white of egg: 
prepare the cannellons as above; just 
before you put them into the oven, roll 
them in the filberts, so as to cover them 
with that mixture; take care to return 
each to its place on the baking-plate ; 
put them in a moderate oven, and colour 
them a good yellow. Finish as above. — 

CANNELLONS with Sugar.* — Prepare 
the cannellons as usual, roll them in 
grained sugar, and finish. 

CAPERS, To Pickle.—The tree that 
bears capers is called the caper shrub or. 
bush, of which they are the flower-buds. 
They are common in the western parts 
of Europe, and we have them in some of 
our gardens; but Toulon is the principal 
place for them. Some are sent us from 
Lyons, but they are flatter, and not so 
firm. Some come from Majorca, but 
they are salt and disagreeable. They 
gather the buds from the blossoms before 
they open, then spread them upon the 
floor of a room where no sun enters, and 
there let them lie till they begin to 
wither. They then throw them into a 
tub of sharp vinegar, and after three 
days, they add a quantity of bay-salt. 
When this is dissolved, they are fit for 

acking, and are sent to all parts of 
urope. The finest capers are those of 
a moderate size, firm, and close, and 
such as have the pickle highly flavoured. 
Those which are soft, flabby, and half 
open, are of little value. 

Caprers, Fine and Coarse.*—The fine 
capers are made use of in garnishing 
dressed salads, and to put whole into 
sauces; the coarser sorts are used in 
sauces where it is necessary to chop up 
the capers. 

Carer Sauce for Fish.— Take some 
melted butter, into which throw a small 
bit of glaze; and when the sauce is in a 
state of readiness, throw into it some 
choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a 
spoonful of essence of anchovies. 

Carer Sauce a la Francoise.—Take 
some capers, cut them small; put some 
essence of ham into a small saucepan, 
with a little pepper; let it boil, then put 
in the capers; let them boil up two or 
three times, and pour into a boat. 

Carer Sauce (to imitate).—Boil some 
parsley very slowly, to let it become of a 
bad colour, then cut it up, (but do not 


chop it fine); put it into melted butter, 


with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert- 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then 
serve. 

Carne Sauce for Meat.—Take some 
capers, chop half of them very fine, and 
put the rest in whole. - Then chop some 
prey en a little grated bread, and 


CAP (114)  OxaeP 


put to it some salt. Put them into but- 

~ ter, melted very smooth; let them boil 

uP» and then pour them into a sauce- 
oat. 

‘Caper Sauce for Meat.—Having some 
butter sauce made hot, mix in a few 
chopped capers, with one squeeze of 
lemon-juice ; melted butter will make 
the same, but of an inferior kind. — 

CAPILLAIRE, To Make.—Take four- 
teen pounds of sugar, three pounds of 
coarse sugar, Six eggs beat in with the 
shells, three quarts of water; boil it up 
twice; skim it well, then add to it a 
quarter of a pint of orange-flower water ; 
strain it through ajelly-bag, and put it 
into bottles; when cold, mix a spoonful 
or two of this syrup, as it is liked for 
sweetness in a draught of warm or cold 
water. 

CaPILLAIRE, Syrup of.*—The capil- 
Jaire of Canada, although that of Mont- 
pellier is equally good, is a very odo- 
riferous vegetable, light and agreeable, 
but so extremely volatile, that the 
greatest part of it is dissipated during 
the preparation of thesyrup. To pre- 
serve then the odour of the capillaire, 
when your syrup is sufficiently done, 
pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh 
capillaire coarsely chopped up; then 
cover your vessel, and let it stand until 
it is quite cold, then pass it through a 
boltiag-cloth to separate it from the 
leaves of the capillaire. 

Take one ounce of the capillaire from 
Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour 
upon it four pints of boiling water, leave 
it to infuse for twelve hours over some 
warm ashes; strain it and let it run into 
a vessel, it will give you a strong tinc- 
ture of capillaire; melt in this tincture 
four pounds of sugar, put the whole into 
a preserving-pan, and putit on the fire, 
and clarify it with the white of an egg, 
continue the cooking; when your syrup 
is perlé,-put some fresh capillaire, chop- 
ped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, 
whilst boiling, upon it; cover your pan 
carefully, and let it cool; when your 
syrup is cold, you may flavour it if you 
please. Put it into bottles, and cork 
them hermetically. 

CAPILLAIRE, Syrup of.*—Take some 
good capillaire, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve ; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and. then let it in- 
fuse for ten hours in a vessel well co- 
vered; strain this infusion, and put into 
it some sugar boiled aw. cassé ; clarify 
‘this syrup with the whites of egys 
‘whipped; skim it till it is very clear; 
when it rises, take it off the fire, an 
by it to cool, then put it into bot- 
tles. 














Viard and Beauvilliers,;whose receipts — 
are nearly the same, boil their capillaire 
for aquarter of an hour in river-water ; 
after having passed this boiling through 
a:sieve, they put into it some powder- 
sugar, and clarify their syrup with water, 
or a whole egg beaten up; then skim it 
and when it is very. clear and has boiled 
au lissé, they take it off the fire, and put 
into it, some orange-flower water; : 
strain it through a napkin or straining- 
bag, leaving it to cool before putting 1t 
into bottles. : whee 

For three pints and a half of syrup, 
you must use two good ounces of ca- 
pillaire, four pints of water, and four 
pounds of sugar, powder-sugar is the 
best, as it prevents syrups from candy- 
ing. 
CAPILLAIRE, Syrup of.—Put an ounce 
of the leaves of the herb called Maiden- 
hair, for a moment, into boiling water 3 
take them out, and put them ina little 
tepid water, leaving them to infuse for 
at least twelve hours upon hot embers; 
then strain them through a sieve; next 
puta pound of sugar into a saucepan, 
with a good glass of water; boil it to the 
same degree as for syrup of violets, then 
put to it the capillaire, or Maiden-hair 
water, not suffering it to boil; take it 
off the fire as soon as it is well mixed 
with the sugar; put it into an earthen 
pan closely covered, and set the pan, 

uring three days, over hot embers, 
keeping the heatas equal as you can, but 
not too violent. When the syrup will 
extend intoa strong thread between your 
fingers, put it into bottles, taking care 
Bor ie cork them till the syrup is quite 
cold. 

CaPILLAInE, Syrup.—Take two quarts 
of fine syrup, and boil it to ablow; boil 
twice or three times, two gills and a haif 
of orange-flower water, skimming it all 
the time; put it into new bottles and 
cork it up the next day; put pieces of 
bladder over the corks, but mind that it 
is a fine syrup before you take it off. 
CAPILOTADE @ PItalienne.—Cut 
up a cold roast fowl; then take a good 
slice of butter, and some shred mush- 
rooms and potherbs; fry these till they 
are about to turn brown, with a tea- 
spoonful of flour; then add to them.a 
large glass of white wine. Let the whole 
simmer together for a quarter of an hour; 
next put in the pieces of fowl, and heat 
them up for a few minutes. Garnish 
your dish with fried slices of bread ; and 
just. before you serve, pour into the 
saucepan two table-spoonsful of oil, tak- 
ing care that it does not boil, and stir it 
up well with the sauce. — a 
CAPON, Botled.—Draw your capon, . 








‘CAP 


-- wash it, and fill the inside with oysters. 
Cut aneck of mutton in pieces ; boil it, 
and skim it well; putin the capon, and 
when it boils, skim it again; take care 
that you have not more broth than will 
Just cover the meat; then put in about 
a pint of white wine, whole pepper, 
cloves, and mace. About a quarter of 

an hour before it is finished, put in three 
anchovies, carefully washed and boned ; 
you may also, if you think proper, add 
parsley and sweet herbs. When it is 
sufficiently done, put some sippets into 
a dish, take the oysters out of the capon, 
put them into the broth, and pour it 
over the sippets, then place the capon 
in the middle, and squeeze either an 
orange or lemon over before you serve. 

Capon, tochnose.—If it is young, his 

spurs are short and his legs smooth 5 if a 
true eapon, a fat vein on the side of his 
breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly 
and rump; if frésh, he will have a close 
hard vent; if stale, a loose open vent. 
. Capon, with Cray-fish.—Stew a capon 
@ la braise ; then make a rago(it of mash- 
rooms, truffles, and the tails of cray-fish; 
toss itup with a little melted lard,moisten 
with a good deal of veal gravy, and 
thicken it witha cullis ef cray-fish; then 
take up your capon, let it drain, then 
put it in a dish, and pour your ragott 
over it and serve. 

You must be careful not to let your ra- 
goit boil after you have put in your 
crayfish eullis, for, if it should, it will 
turn; therefore only keep it over hot 
embers. 

Capon dressed the French way.—Take 
@ quart of white wine, season the capon 
with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a 
few shalots; and then put the capon in 
an earthen pan; you must take care it 
has not room to shake; it must be co- 
vered close, and done over a slow char- 
coal fire. 

Capon, to fricassée.—Take a capon 
either roast or boiled, cut it up, and take 
the pinions from the wings and the brawn 
from the joints.. Being thus prepared, 
putit intoa pan, take the yolks of five 
eggs, some minced thyme, and sliced 
nutmeg, mix them well together, and 
put them into the pan with clarified but- 
ter, half hot, and fry them till they are 
brown, then turn them out; then put 
the yolks of three eggs, an onion cut in 
quarters, anchovies, and a little grated 
nutmeg, into some white wine, strong 
broth, or gravy; then pour out what 
liquor is in your pan, and put to ita 
jadleful of butter; put this layer into 
your pan, and keep it continually shak- 
ing over a slow fire, till it thickens (if it 
is too thick it may be thinned with white 


( 115 ) 


CAP 


wine); then put your fowl into a dish, 
pour in your sauce. Garnish it with 
slices of lemon, and hard yolks of eggs 
chopped small, and serve. 

Capon, au gros sel.* — After having 
drawn and trussed a capon, rub it over 
with lemon, and cover it with slices of 
bacon, and put it into a stewpan with 
some onions, carrots, the neck, the giz- 
zard, and some pieces of veal; mix the 
whole together with some douzd/on, and 
let it stew over a gentle fire, from about 
an hour and a half to two hours. Serve 
it with rock salt sprinkled over it, anda 
good gravy. 

Capon, au gros sel.—It is usually an 
old eapon that is dressed in this way. 
Having drawn and trussed it, cover it 
with rashers of bacon to preserve its 
whiteness; tie it up and put it intos 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of 
water. When done, serve with a little 
of its broth, and some rock salt sprinkled 
over it. A capon is esteemed a great 
delicacy ; they are best about seven or 
eight months old, and are almost always 
served roasted 3 should they not be very 
tender, they may be dressed en daube, 
like a turkey. 

Cavon, the Ltalian fashion.—Boil some 
rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, 
adding salt and sugar; then boil some 
Bologna sausages very tender, mince 
them very small, add some grated cheese, 
sugar, and cinnamon, mix the whole to- 
gether; then your capon being boiled or 
roasted, cut it up, and lay it ona dish 
with some rice, strew over it some of the 
sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and 
sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs; 
thus make two or three layers, lay some 
eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, 
and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or 
in a warmoven. 

Caron, larded with Lemon.—Let your 
capon be first scalded, then take a little 
dust of oatmeal to make it lock white; 
then take a pint of stock, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, two or three dates, cut long- 
ways, some currants parboiled, a little 
whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a 
nutmeg, thicken it with almonds, season 
with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter; 
then lard the capon with thick lardons 
of bacon and preserved lemon, boil it; 
when done, place it in a deep dish, and 
pour the stock over it. Garnish with 
preserved barberries and sippets. 

Capon with Oysters.—Dress a capon 
a la braise, then simmer some mush- 
rooms and trufiles in some veal gravy 
over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis 
of veal and ham; then give some oysters 
twoor three turns in their own liquor 
over the fire to blanch them, but do net 





) CAP (116) CAP. 


Jian Lar gamer io — 
erste ui apg oo" 


let them boil ; take them off, clean them 
well, and put them into the ragotit you 
have prepared, set it over the fire to 
heat, but do not let it boil; take up the 
capon, let it drain, then lay it in a dish, 
pour the ragott ever, and serve it hot. 

Capon uxth Oysters and Chesnuts.— 
Boil twelve large chesnuts till they are 
soft, then peel them and put them into 
claret wine warmed with the same num- 
ber of oysters parboiled; spit the capon, 
and put these into the inside of the capon, 
and stop them in with butter, roast 
it before a quick fire, baste it with fresh 
butter, and when it begins to drip, pre- 
serve the gravy; then take half a pint 
of claret, put into it fifteen or twenty 
large chesnuts boiled, and the same 
number of oysters, a piece of butter, and 
some whole pepper; stew all these to- 
gether till half has stewed away; when 
your capon is roasted, put the gravy 
which you have saved into the sauce, 
bread the capon, place it on a dish, pour 
the sauce all over, and serve. 

‘Caron Pasty.—Roast acapon, let it be 
cold, take the flesh from the bones and 
slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions 
whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, 
four sweetbreads and half a pint of oys- 
ters, season them with salt, cloves, nut- 
meg. and mace, sweet marjoram, penny- 
royal, and thyme, minced; lay a sheet 
of paper or paste in your pasty-pan, and 
lay the thighs and pinions on the bottom, 
and strew them over with sliced onions, 
then put in the flesh of the capon, the 
sweetbreads, and the oysters, cut in 
halves; over these strew a handful of 
chesnuts, boiled and blanched, then put 
butter over them, close up your pan and 
bake it; when done, add .gravy, good 
stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and 
grated nutmeg; garnish with slices of 
lemon, andserve. Turkey may be done 
in the same manner. 

Caron with Pease.—Boil a fat piece of 
beef with a capon, 2 piece of bacon, and 
alittle salt; when the capon is almost 
boiled, take it out, and braise some pease 
and boil them in the broth; then take 
oa beef, and put in the capon again 3 
when all is sufficiently done, take up 
the pease, strain them, and put them 
into a saucepan to boil by themselves; 
when done, dish the capon, pour the 
strained pease over it and serve. 

Caron ix Pilau.*—Truss a capon with 


the claws inside, and tie it up; put it. 


intoa stewpan with some good consommeé, 
and cover it with a slice of bacon; when 
the capon is about three parts done, put 
in half a pound of rice well washed ; let 
it stand over the fire till the rice is per- 
feetly creed, then drain the capon, and 


jelly, then put # into an earthen 


dish it. Addtothe rice some saffronin 


powder, and a good pimento; butter, 
and placeitround the capon. = 

Capon Pudding.—Roast a capon, take 
out the meat of the breast, mince it 
small, then cut some pig’s feet very 
thin, put these into a saucepan, witha 
couple of roasted onions; then pound 
them in a mortar with sweet herbs and — 
shred parsley, seasoned with spices and 
mixed with the whites of two or three 
eggs beaten.. Beat up the yolks of 
twelve eggs in a quart of milk, boil it to 
acream; then mix all together, and just 
warm it over the fire; put these into 
skins the same as you do marrow pud- 
dings; blanch them in water and milk 
with slices of onions; when you use 
them, spread a sheet of paper over with 
lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your 
puddings on it over a’gentle fire, and 
serve them. DN ENR 

Caron au Riz.*—Draw and truss your 
capon, and cover it with slices of bacon ; 
then wash thoroughly a quarter of a 
pound of rice; drain it and let itdry be- 
fore the fire, then put it into some Jouzs- 
lon, and let it stew, moistening it and 
stirring it from time to time; when it is 
done, keep it on warm ashes and soak | 
some crust of bread in it; drain your 
capon which you have cooked, by itself, 
take off the slices of bacon, and serve it 
on a dish with the rice round it, and 
pour over the whole some clear veal 
gravy. . 

Capon with Rice.—Cover a capon witha 
thin layer of bacon, and putit ina sauce- 
pan with a pound of rice, half under the 
fowl], and half above it ; fill up the sauces 
pan with stock, and salt to your taste. 
Put the whole over a slow fire, with some 
charcoal on the lid of the saucepan. 
When the rice has absorbed the whole. 
of the stock, serve it under the fowl. 

Capons, in general, are dressed the 
same as fowls. evan oni 

Capon, Soused.—Take a full-bodied 
capon, prepare it as for the spit, then 
lay itin soak four hours -with a knuckle 
of veal well jointed ; then boil them with 
a gallon of water, skim it well, put in 
five or six blades of mace, two or three 
races of sliced ginger, three fennel, and 
three parsley roots. When the capon is 
boiled, take it up and put to your soused 
broth a quart of white wine, boil it toa 
any 
and put your capon into it with three 
lemons sliced, then cover it close for 
use. When you serve it, garnish with 
barberries, slices of lemon, nutmeg, 
mace, and some of the jelly. ° va 

Caron Roasted with Sweet Herbs.— 
When you have drawn the capon, put 


Se 








CAR (117°) CAR 


your finger between the skin and flesh 
to loosen it; grate some bacon (the 


quantity of two eggs), and add to it one 
truffle, one mushroom, a little parsley, | 


and garden-basil ; season these with salt, 
pepper, and spices, mix these all well 
together, and put them between the 
skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up 
the end ; then lard the capon with slices 
of veal and ham, putting a little sweet 
herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then 
wrap it up in sheets of paper, and put it 
on the spit to roast. By the time it is 
roasted, have ready a ragofit of veal 
sweetbreads, fat livers, mushrooms, 
- truffles, morels, artichoke- bottoms, as- 
paragus-tops in their season, which 
should be tossed up with a little melted 
lard, and. strengthened with a good 
gravy; take off the fat, and thicken 
it with a cullis of veal and ham, place 
your capon on a dish, pour your ragoat 
all over, and serve. Chickens, par- 
tridges, ducks, pheasants, &c., may be 
dressed in the same manner. 
CAPSICUM Pods.—Gather the pods, 
with the stalks on, before they turn red; 
cut a slit down the side with a penknife, 
_and take ont all the seeds, but as little 
of the meat as possible; lay them ina 
strong brine for three days, changing it 
every day; then take them cut, lay 
them on a cloth, and lay another over 
them till they are quite dry; boil vine- 
gar enough to cover them, put in some 
mace and nutmeg beat small; put the 
ds into a glass or jar, and when the 
liquor is cold, pour it over, then tie 
a bladder and leather over them. 
‘CARAMEL Conserve.*—Clarify the 
quantity of sugar you may require, an 
boil it to caramel; have ready some 
cases of double paper; pour in your su- 
gar to the thickness of half an inch, and 
trace on its surface the forms you wish 
it to have; when cold, break it accord- 
ing to those marks. 
_ This conserve may be coloured and 
flavoured according to the fancy. : 
CaraMEL Cover for Sweetmeats.—Dis- 
solve eight ounces of double-refined su- 
gar in three or four spoonsful of water, 
and three or four drops of lemon-juice ; 
then put it into a copper untinned skil- 
let; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into 
a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar 
from the spoon into it, and so on till 
you have all the sugar. Take a bit out 
of the water, and if it snapsand is brittle 
when cold, it is done enough; but only 
let it be three parts cold, then pour the 
water from the sugar, and having a cop- 
er mould oiled well, run the sugar on it, 


in the manner of amaze, and when cold | 





you may put it on the dish it is to cover 3 
but if, on trial, the sugar is not brittle, 
pour off the water, and return it into the 
skillet, and boil it again. It should 
look thick like treacle, but of a bright 
light goid colour. It makes a most 
elegant cover. 

CaRAMEL Croguant.—Take a copper 
croquant top, and butter it all over, then 
have some syrup boiling in a stewpan; 
let it boil till it comes to caramel, take 
the pan off, dip a three-pronged fork 
into the syrup or from the spout of the 
pan, and you will see strings hang tothe 
fork; move the fork backwards and for- 
wards over the croquant until you quite 
cover it thick, have your little dish of 
sweetmeats under, take this croquant 
off the mould, and when cold putit over 
ae presen and handle it very 
ightly. 

CARDAMUM Comfits. — Procure 
your cardamums at the chemists, and 
they will be in a shell; put them into 
the oven to dry the skins, and they will 
break; pick all the seeds from them, put 
the seeds into a large comfit-pan, and 
have a fire under the same as for others ; 
mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and 
finish them the same as carraway comfits, 

Carpamum /Vater. — Take pimento, 
carraway and coriander seeds, and lemon- 
peel, of each four ounces; three gallons 
of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity 
of water, distil, and sweeten it witha 
pound and a half of sugar. 

CARDOONS with Cheese. — String 
and cut them an inch long, put them 
into a saucepan with red wine, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, stew them till they 
are tender, put in a piece of butter rolled 
in flour, and when of a proper thickness 
pour them into a dish, squeeze the juice 
of an orange into the sauce, and scrape 
over them some Parmesan or Cheshire 
cheese, and then brown them with a 
cheese) but not of too high a co- 

our. ' 

Carpoons in Cheese.*—Add to the 
sauce in which the cardoons are cooked, 
grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese} 
and putit over them when placed in the 
dish; cover them with bread-crumbs 
and grated cheese, pour melted butter 
over the whole; colour it in the oven, 
or with a salamander. 

Another way.—W hen the cardoons are 
boiled, put a little cullis into a dish, and 
lay on it as many bits of fried bread as 
you have cardoons, which place on the 
bread ; pour cullis over and strew grated 
cheese over. Finish as above. 4 

Carpoons (¢o dress).—Cut them in 
pieces six inches long, and put them 
ona string; boil till tender, have ready 








z 
; 
| 


Ts 


— 


CAR 


a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry 
them. 

They may also be tied in bundles, and 
served as asparagus boiled on a toast, 
and pour butter over. | 

Carpoons 4 l’ Essence with Marrow.— 
The same preparation as for Spanish 
cardoons, receipt second. Take a few 
pieces of beef-marrow, all ot a. size, 
which you put to disgorge in warm 
water, to draw out all the blood. When 
thoroughly disgorged, blanch and stew 
itin a little water, with a little salt, and 
a few slices of lemon to keep it white. 
When done, put it into the essence, 
which is nothing but some espagnole 
reduced. Drain the fat, and do not 
forget to put a little sugar; which is 
requisite in all dishes of cardoons, as it 
makes them much better. 

Carvoons, Fried and Buttered.—You 
must cut them about six inches long, and 
string them; then boil them till tender ; 
take them out, have some butter in your 
stewpan, flour them, and fry them 
brown; send them in a dish, with 
melted butter in a cup. Or, you may 
tie them up in bundles, and boil them 
like asparagus; put a toast under them, 
and pour a little melted butter over 
them; or cut them into dice, and. boil 
them like pease: toss them up in butter, 
and send them up bot. 

Carpoons @ la Fromage.—After they 
are strung, cut them an inch long, stew 
them in a little red wine till they are 
tender ; season -with pepper and salt, 
and thicken it with a piece of batter 
rolled in flour ; then pour them into your 
dish, squeeze the juice of an orange over 
it, then scrape Parmesan or Cheshire 
cheese all over them; then brown it 
with a cheese-iron, and serve it up quick 
and hot. 

Carpoons, Purée of.*—Boil some car- 
doons in a é/anc, and cut them into small 
pieces: have ready three large spoonsful 
ef vefouté, and six of consommeé, in which 
put the cardoons; set them on the fire 
till reduced to a paste; then pass them 
through a bolting; keep your purée as 
thick as purées usually are, but if too 
thick, put in a little cream; adda bit of 
jelly about the size of a walnut; keep it 
hot without boiling in the dazn marze. 

Carvoons, Purée of, in Croustade.*— 
Cut some slices about an inch and a half 
thick from a large French loaf, fry them 
of a light colour in butter, drain them; 
take out the inner crumb, and fill them 
with a purée of cardoons, having mixed 
about half an ounce of butter in whilst 
the purée was quite hot. 

Carpoons @ la Sauce Blanehe.—The 
same preparation as for Spanish car- 


( 18 ) : 


CAR 


doons, receipt second. only serve with 
the sauce blanche, or French melted 
butter.:) ory ; fk jae Md 

Carvoons, Spanish.*—Cut them into 


lengths of three inches, be careful not to © 


use those which are hollow and green; 
boil them for half an hour, then put them 
into lukewarm water to cleanse them 
from their slime; then dress them in 
some stock, with a spoonful of flour, 
some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a little verjuice, and a little but- 
ter; when done, put them into a cullis 
with some stock; cook them for an hour 
in this sauce, and serve. ia 

Carpoons, Spanish.— Select a few 
heads of cardoons, all very white. Cut 


each leaf into slices of six inches long; 


with the exception, however, of those 
that are hollow, which are tough and 
thready. Beard them of their prickles, 
and blanch them, by putting the thickest 
leaves into boiling water. When you 
have given these a few boils, put in the 
leaves of the heart; turn the middle 
stalks into large olives, and blanch them 
likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, 
to see if the slime which is on the sur- 
face will come off by rubbing. 
take them off the fire immediately, an 

throw them into cold water, as they are 
done enough ; or you may cool the boil- 
ing water, by pouring cvuld into it till 
you are able to bear your hand in it, to 
rub off all the slime. ‘This being done, 
throw the cardoons into a blanc, give 
them a single boil, and leave them in 
the blanc. Wherever you wish to use 
them, drain a sufficient quantity. Pare 


both extremities, and mask them in a 


stewpan, with four spoonsful of espagnole 
and four spoonsful of consommé, a little 
salt, and a little sugar. 
over a sharp fire, that they may not be 
done too much; be sure to skim off all 
the fat. Dish them nicely. 
sauce through 2 tammy before you mask 
them. Send them up to table quite hot, 
with a cover over them, to prevent their 
getting dry. 

Carpoons, Stewed, — Cut them in 
pieces, take off the outside skin, wash 
and scald them; put them into a stew- 
pan, add stock enough to cover them, 
boil till three parts done, and the liquor 
nearly reduced; then add a little bé- 
chamelle, and stew them gently till done. 
Serve with sippets of fried bread round 
the dish, and the cardoons in the centre. 

Carooons au Velouté.—The same pre- 
paration as for Spanish cardoons, receipt 


second, Take some out of the diane, 
trim and stew them in a little consommé, — 


and when they are done, 


2 


drain and sauce 
them with some velouté. ! 


ee ae 
, . 


If so, 


Let them boil 


Strainsthe: @ 











CAR 


» CARP.—Carp live some time out of 
water, and may therefore get wasted ; 
it is best to kill them as soon as caught, 
to prevent this. The same signs of fresh- 
ness attend them as other fish. 

Carp.*—When it is large, it is served 
au bleu as a roast, having drawn and 
taken out its gills (it should not be 
scaled), put it upon a large dish, boil 
some vinegar, and whilst it is boiling hot 

our it over the carp, this will turn it 
lue; then dress it in a thick dowzllon. 

Roast.—W hen it is done, serve it upon 
a napkin, garnished with green parsley, 
as a dish of roast mazgre. 

Carp au Blanc.*—Clean your carp, 
and put it intoa fish-kettle with some 
small onions, a good piece of butter, 
worked up with some flour; moisten it 
with two glasses of white wine, ard one 
glass of water; let it boil quickly for an 
hour and a half; when done, and the 
sauce thick, serve it on a hot dish: you 
must be careful not to let the sauce be 
too thick. , 

Carp Boiled in Wine.—Take the liver 
of the carp cleen from the guts, three 


anchovies, a little parsley, thyme, and 


onion; chop them together, and take 
half a pint of rhenish wine, four spoons- 
ful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp; 
stew them gently together, put it to the 
carp, which must first be boiled in water, 
with a little salt, and halfapint of wine: 
but after the carp is put into the sauce, 
let it not be done too much. 

_ Carp, Brotled.* — Clean your carp, 
 eut off the tail and the fins; put into the 
body a piece of butter worked up with 
sweet herbs; sew up the opening, and 
make some notches on both sides about 
half an inch deep, rub it with a piece of 
fresh butter, and cover it all over with 
crumbs of bread and parsley, chopped 
very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, 
and serve with whatever sauce you think 
best. 

Carp Broiled with Caper Sauce.— 
Having scaled and drawn one or more 
carp, let them soak on a dish with a 
mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then 
take them out, and broil by a moderate 
fire; when done, serve with caper 
sauce. : 

Carr @ la Chambord.*—Clean, scale, 
and well wash a fine carp; skin it, and 
lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, 
tie it together by the head and tail; put 
it into a fish-keitle, with a rich or maz- 
gre marinade, and Jet it boil until the 
bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and 
garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweet- 
breads, cray fish, toasted bread, arti- 
choke bottoms, boiled with the carp; 
reduce the sauce made with the liquor 


('H9) 


CAR 


in which the carp has boiled, add two 
spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it 
over your fish. 

Carr au Commissaire.*—Scale, clean, 
take out the gills, and skin a fine carp, 
lard it all over with small pieces of bacone 
Make a farce of sweetbreads, truffles, fat 
livers, bacon and chicken, or any other 
poultry; cut up the whole into small 
dice, stuff your carp, and sew wp the 
opening fast. Put into a stewpan two 
slices of bacon and two slices of veal; 
wrap your carp ina sheet of paper, and 
put it into the stewpan on the slices of 
bacon and veal, and cover your carp with 
two more slices of veal, let the whole 
sweat over a gentle fire; and when the 
veal begins to colour, pour into the 
stewpan a bottle of burgundy, and a pint 
of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon ; 
let the whole boil slowly for three hours. 
When the carp is done, serve it upon & 
dish over hot water; strain the sauce 
through a sieve, reduce it to a proper 
consistence, and pour it boiling over 
your fish; it is usually glazed with veal 
gravy, consommé, reduced toa good jelly, 
and of a fine clear golden colour; gar- 
nish your dish with cray fish, sweet- 
breads, truffles, morels, artichoke bot- 
toms, or any other kind of garniture 
which the season may afford. 

Carp au Courte Bouillon.* — Wash, 
scale, and clean acarp, take out the gills, 
and put into the body a piece of butter 
worked up with some flour; boil a glass 
of vinegar, and whilst it is boiling pour 
it over your fish; add to it some salt, 
pepper, laurel, a pint of wine, and two 
slices of lemon; cook it for two hours, 
drain it, serve iton a napkin, and strew 
over it some green parsley. 

Carp a@ la Daube.*—Scale and clean a 
fine carp; if it is old it must be skinned. 
Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with 
some good bouzllon, a pint of Cham- 
pagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the 
juice of a lemon; let it boil till the sauce 
is reduced to a proper consistence : 
serve it hot. 

Carp Dressed with Eels.*—Clean, and 
cook in a stewpan, some carp whole, with 
some eels cut in pieces, and the bone 
taken out; add some bowélion, either 
rich or maigre, white wine, and sweet 
herbs. When done, dish your carp, 
with the eels properly ranged round 3 
Spots the sauce, and serve it over the 

sh. 

Carp, Entrée of.*—Take a fine carp, 
clean and scaie it, cliop up some parsley, 
scallion, shalots, tarragon, and other fine 
herbs ; work in a piece of butter, and 
when the whole is well mixed together, 
put it into the body of the carp. Put it 





CAR 


in a vessel sufficiently long to Jet it lay 
full length: you must, before you put 
your carp into your vessel, line your 
vessel with a layer of onions cut in slices, 
with two cloves of garlic, a little Seville 
orange-peel, salt, pepper, and a pint of 
wine, or two pints, according to the size 
of your fish; add a glass or two of fish 
bouillon, or in case you have not any 

ready, you may substitute boiling water ; 

cook it over a slow fire for two or three 
hours. When it is sufficiently done, 
take it out, and place it on a dish 3 strain 
the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too 
re reduce it, then pouf it over your 

sh. 

Carp ad I’ Estaing.*— Clean, scale, 
and take out the gills of a carp, lard it 
with bacon, truffles, and fillets of ancho- 
vies; then make a farce of the flesh of 
perch, roach, or any other small fish, 
chopped up with crumb of bread boiled 
in milk; add parsley, scallion, shalots, 
salt, nutmeg, butter, and the yolks of 
three eggs; mix the whole well together, 
and stuff your carp. Put into a stewpan 
some onions, butter, and slices of truf- 
fles ; put in your carp, (having first care- 
fully sewn up the opening of the belly 
where you have put in your stuffing, and 
run a thread through the mouth of the 
fish, that you may take it out of the 
stewpan without breaking). Mboisten it 
with equal quantities of fish douzllon and 
ved burgundy, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; 
let it stew for three hours}; serve it upon 
a dish, and pour over it the sauce re- 
maining in the stewpan, having first 
strained it through a sieve. 

* Carp (Farce of).—Take the flesh of 
two carps, which should be chopped, 
pounded, and rubbed through a sieve. 
Soak some crumbs of bread in some good 
milk ; have a few mushrooms and alittle 
parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to 
sweat in alittle butter, over a slow fire; 
then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next 
put the bread which has been soaked 
and squeezed properly, with the flesh of 
the carp that has been rubbed through 
atammy, intoa mortar, with a lump of 
butter of about the same bulk as the fiesh 
of the carp, and season with pepper, salt, 
allspice. three or four eggs’ whites, and 
eggs’ whites and _ yolks together ; farces 
with butter require more eggs than those 
with udder. Yet before you put more 
than three, you must try, to roll some of 
the farce in a little flour, and to poach 
it.in boiling water. You then taste, and 
add to the seasoning if required. When 
completely done, rub it through a sieve, 
and let it cool in the larder, and use it 
when you have occasion. This farce is 
used for petits pdtés of carp. 


( 120 ) 


CAR 


Carp Farci.*—Scale a fine soft reed 


carp}; split it up the back; take out the 


flesh without injuring the skin, and 
without teuching the back bone; chop 
up this flesh with that of an eel, very 
small; season it with fresh butter, sweet 
herbs, thyme, mushrooms, cloves, grated 
nutmeg, add also some of the roe ; put 
this farce intothe carp; then sew it 
up; put it into a stewpan, with some 
butter rowa, white wine, and some clear 
purée; baste it ail over with fresh bute 
ter worked with flour, and chopped 
parsley; bake it in the oven: serve it, 
garnished with the reux and fried mush- 
rooms. 
Carp Farci, Baked.—Take a fine carp, 
scale and empty it; then detach one side 
of the fillets, without injuring the head. 
Take this flesh, and that of another carp 
of a smaller size, and make a farce in the 
following manner: take the crumb of 
two penny loaves, soak it in cream or 
milk, then squeeze it, and put itintoa 
mortar, with an equal quantity of the 
flesh of the carp, nearly as much fresh 
butter, with a little chopped parsley, a 
few mushrooms fried in a littie butter, 
salt, pepper, andspice. Whenall these ine 
gredients have been pounded in a mor- 
tar, add a couple of eggs, and continue 
pounding for a long time, then take a 
little, and throw into boiling water, and 
taste. If it be too delicate, which means 
too thin, add one egg more, pound it 
again, and then rub it through the sieve 
@ quenelles ; and fill up the cavities in 
the fillets of the carp, giving it the shape 
ofa fish. Take care, however, to give it 
a good shape. Next, let it be done tho- 
roughly in the oven, and serve it, with 
caper sauce under it. 
Carp Fillets with Lemon.*—Cut some 
middling sized carp into fillets, and stew 
them with some fish gravy for half an 
hour; place them upon a dish, reduce 
some sauce, and squeeze into it the juice 
of a lemon; let it boil for a quarter of 
an hour, and then pour it boiling over 
your fillets, and serve. my 
Carrs (Florendine of).—Take the 
yolks of half a dozen egys, and three 
quarters of a pound of butter, and work - 
them up in a quarter ofa peck of flour; 
dry it, add as much water as will make 
it into a paste, make it up as near as you 
can in the form of the fish. Scale a carp 
alive, scrap off the slime, draw it, sea~ 
son it lightly with salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg, put the milt into the belly, lay it 
into the pye3 then lay on it dates sliced 
in halves, barberries, raisins, orange and 
lemon, cut in slices, and butter, close it 
up, bake it; when it is almost baked, 
liquor it with butter, claret, white wine, 








CAR 


serve it hot. 

_ Carp Fried.*—Clean and scale a carp} 
aplit it up the back; flatten the back- 
bone, sprinkle your fish with flour, then 
sprinkle the raes. which have been put 
aside, put the whole into a frying-pan 
made very hot, fry to a rich colour, and 
serve it with lemon-juice. 

_ Carp Glacée.*—Clean and skin a 
carp, lard it with small pieces of bacon, 
stuff it; and boil it quickly in white 
wine. ‘Then drainit. Puta stuffing on 
a dish, and lay your carp upon it, cover 
it with two slices of veal, over which put 
- a buttered sheet of paper. Then bake it 
in a moderate oven ; when sufficiently 
done, take off the slices of veal, and glaze 
with a gravy made from carp, or any 
other, and reduced to the proper consis- 
tency. 

Carp en Matelote.*—Take a carp, 
scale it, and take out the gills, cut it in 
pieces, and put it into a stewpan with 
some other fish, either jack, eels, cray- 
fish, barbel, or any other river fish, 
which it is most convenient to procure. 
Put into another stewpan a little rows, 
with some butter, and aspoonful of flour; 
when it is of a good colour, put in some 
small onions, cut in quarters, and when 
they are half done, add a little more but- 
ter. Then moisten with equal quanti- 
ties of red wine and soup maigre; then 
pour your onions with their sauce into 
the stewpan in which you have put your 
carp, and season the whole with salt, 
pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs ; then 
put it to boil overa brisk fire for half an 
hour. When ready to serve, put some 
pieces of toasted bread in the sauce. 

When the carp is done ‘without any 
other fish, it is called stewed, the man- 
ner of dressing it is exactly the same. 

Carp Minced.*—Clean some small 
carp, skin them, and take out the bones; 
mince the flesh with parsley, shalots, 
scallion, salt, pepper and nutmeg; melt 
some butter in a stewpan, and put your 
mince into it; let it stew for a quarter of 
an hour, then moisten it with soup mea- 
gre, and let it stew till done. Dish it 
with pieces of fried bread all round. 

Carp Pie.—Scrape off the scales, and 
gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil 
an eel till almost tender ; pick off all the 
meat, and mince it fine, with an equal 
quantity of bread crumbs, a few sweet 
herbs, lemon-peel cut fine, a little pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg grated; an an- 
chovy, half a pint of oysters parboiled, 
and chopped. fine, and the yolks of three 
hard eggs cut small: roll it up with a 
quarter of a pound of butter, and fill the 
belly of the carp. Make a good crust to 


(121 ) 
Verjuice, and sugar. Ice it over, and | 


CAR 


cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save 
the liquor of the eels, put into it the eel 
bones, and boil them with a little mace, 
whole pepper, an onion, some sweet 
herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to 
halfa pint, then strain it, add to ita 
quarter of a pint of white wine, anda 
piece of butter about the size of a hen’s 
egg, mixed in avery little flour. Boil 
it up, and pour it into the pie; then put 
on the lid, and bake it an hour in a quick 


“On. 

Carp, Polish Fashion.—Cut a carp into 
large pieces, and slit the head in two; 
put it into a stewpan, with a piece of 
butter, slices of onions, bits of carrots, 
parsley, green shalots, thyme, laurel, 
whole pepper, and salt; soak it a little 
while ; then adda pint of beer, and a good 
glass of brandy; when done, strain the 
sauce, add a bit of butter, roll it in flour, 
and the juice of a Seville orange ; reduce 
the sauce pretty thick, and serve upon 
the fish. 

Carp Ragoit.*— Draw and scale your 


| carp, then broil it. with stuffing over it, 


then cut it in pieces, put it into a stew- 
pan with some butter, parsley, scallion, 
mushrooms, all chopped up, a pint of 
white wine, some salt, and pepper. When 
itis sufficiently stewed serve it with a 
thick sauce. 

Carp en Redingote.* —Clean your 
carp, cut off the tail and fins, stuff it with 
a farce, made according to your own 
taste, cut in on the back, and rub it well 
all over with fresh butter ; then strew it 
with bread crumbs and chervil, chopped 
fine, and worked with butter; cover it 
with a sheet of paper, and wrap it up en 
papillote, cook it over a moderate fire 
ina large pan. Serve it with what sauce 
you please. 

Carp Roasted.—Stuff a carp with a 
farce made of butter, bread crumbs, fine 
spices, capers, anchovies, parsley, and 
green shalots, all finely chopped ; lard 
it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first 
soaked to take out the salt; tie itto a 
skewer, and then fix it to the spit; cover 
it over with two or three doubles of pa- 
per, well buttered, and baste it with 
white wine, boiled with some butter, two 
laurel leaves, and one clove of garlick ; 
serve with what sauce or ragoit you 
think proper. 

Carp a la Savanah.* — Take some live 
carp, cut them in fillets, and wipe them 
with a cloth dipped in brandy ; cut them 
into pieces of different sizes, and. put 
them into a stewpan with two or three 
dozen of small onions, which have been 
previously half dressed over the ashes; 
season with salt, pepper, laurel, and 
hag ag pour over it a sufficient 





CAR 


uantity of wine to cover your fish, let 
the whole boil quickly for two hours, 
then add some pieces of fried bread. 
When the fish is quite done, and the 
sauce reduced, peur the whole into a 
large dish, and serve it very hot. 

ARP Sauce.—Cut up a carp in large 
bits, and put it into a stewpan, with a 
few slices of bacon, ham,veal, two onions, 
one carrot, and half a parsnip; soak it 
till it catches a little; then add a glass of 
white wine and good broth, alittle cullis, 
a fagot of parsley, chibbol, a clove of 
garlick, two of spices, and a laurel leaf; 
simmer for an hour, skim it very well, 
and strain it in 2 sieve. 

Carp Stewed.*—Melt a piece of butter, 
worked up with some flour in a stewpan ; 
when it is a little browned, mix with it 
a glass of soup maigre, and add some 
small onions, cut in slices; then put in 
your carp, season with salt, pepper, 
laurel, and add a pint of red wine; let it 
boil slowly till quite done, and the sauce 
is reduced ; then serve. 

Carp Stewed.*—Scale and clean your 
carp, cutit in pieces; brown some but- 
ter with a pinch of flour, put in some 
small onions ; add butter, parsley, chib- 
bol, shalots, thyme, laure], mushrooms 
grated nutmeg; moisten it with equal 
quantities of bouillon and red wine, put 
your carp into thig seasoning, and stew 
it over a good fire. When it is done, 
serve your carp upon a dish, with toasted 
bread under it, and pour the sauce over 
the whole. 

Carp Stfewed.*—Bleed them in the 
tail, wash them clean, put them in astew- 
pan, with a pint of claret, a pint of gravy, 
with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
two anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, 
some lemon-peel, some _horse-radish 
sliced, nutmeg sliced, and some whole 
pepper tied in a cloth, when the carp is 
sufficiently done, strain off the sauce ; 
then put in a little lemon juice ; thicken 
the sauce with burnt butter. 

Carp Stewed with Wine.—Take a 
carp; being well cleaned, crimp it two 
or three times, set it in a stewpan with 
some good consommeé,a bottle of Madeira, 
a little salt, a bay leaf, and a few pepper 
eorns; let it stew gently between two 
fires till well done, then take it out, lay 
it on a dish; the liquor must stew with 
three spoonsful of sauce fournée, till 
tolerably thick; if not quite smooth, 
squeeze it through a tammy ; put in the 
juice of a lemon, with a very little 
cayenne pepper, and pour it over the 
fish, which must be garnished with veal 
forcemeat. 

Canp Tongues, Ragoit of.*—Blanch 
about an hundred carp tongues in water, 


( 122 ) 


CAR 


with a little salt and vinegar; drain 
them well; have ready two spoonsful of 
allemande, and the same of velouté, and 
boil it up; add to it, by degrees, a pound 
of butter ; put in the tongues, and finish 
it with lemon-juice. pel, 


Carp Roes in Aspic.*—Prepare an _ 
aspic, as directed for cock’s-combs in 


aspic, and fill it with carp roes, boiled 
and well seasoned. . 

Carp Roes, da la Bellewue.—Scald the 
roes in warm water, and prepare a stew- 
pan with thin slices of bacon, and one 
slice of ham ; add to this a scalded sweet- 
bread, a fagot of sweet herbs, onions 
cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of 
white wine, whole pepper, and a little 
salt (or none, if the ham is not very 
fresh) ; when the sweetbread is almost 
brazed enough, put the roes to it, a lit- 
tle broth, and about two dozen of cray- 
fish tails picked ; simmer together about 
a quarter of an hour, then put the 
sweetbread into the middle of the dish, 
with two or three of the onion-rings upon 
it. which you baste with whites of eggs 
to make them stick the better ; fill them 
with cray-fish spawn boiled a moment in 
a good cullis, and the roes and cray-fish 
tails round separately; add some good 
rich cullis to the sauce, make it pretty 
thick, strain it ina sieve, and pour it 
upon the roes only. 

Carp Roes, Caisses of.*—Blanch thirty 
well-washed carp roes; drain them; put 
into a stewpan a piece of butter, cham- 
pignons, parsley, shalots (all chopped 
small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other 
spice; do these lightly over the fire, 
taking care not to let them take colour ; 
add the carp roes to them, and let them 
simmera minute. Make around enzsse, 
at the bottom of which lay a gratin ; oil 
the caisse well and put it on the gridiron 
over hot ashes; place the roes on the 
gratin, and broil them thus. When 
donsetas them from the caésse, and dish 
them. 


Carp Hoe ue Fashion.—Boil a 


dozen of small white onions, scalded in 
half a pint of white wine, a fagot of 
sweet herbs, a gond bit of butter, pepper 
and salt; when three parts done, put 
scalded carp roes into it, and finish the 
boiling (they require no longer than time 
enough to finish the onions very tender); 
reduce the sauce pretty thick; put the 
roes into the middle of the dish, and the. 
onions round; mix a little spinach-juice 
with the sauce, to give it a pale green 
colour, or a strong green if you think 
proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions 
only, or in the bottom of the dish, and 
the rest upon it; garnish it round wit 

fried bread. Carp roes are also dresse 


ee oe ee 


ee 


A : , ie, ge 
a en ee ee ee a ee 








CAR ( 123 ) 


asa chicken fricassée, with mushrooms, 
a little chopped parsley, and white liaison 
Salice. 

Care Roes, English Fashion—Boil 
scalded roes about a quarter of an hour 
in some good jelly broth, seasoned with 
pepper and salt; when ready to serve, 
add a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
simmer it a moment without boiling; 
add a lemon squeeze, and let the sauce 
be of a middling consistence, neither 
very thick, nor clear and thin. 

A la Béchameile, done with Bechamel 
Sauce; scald them first, and simmer 
them a while in it. 

Carpoes fricasséed.—Put into astew- 
pan alittle butter, a dozen small mush- 
rooms, aslice of ham, the squeeze of a 
lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. 
Stew it alittle time on a slow fire, then 
add a little flour, and as many carp roes 
as you think proper, with a little good 
broth; stew them about a quarter of an 
hour, and season them with pepper and 
salt when you put in the broth. When 
allis ready, thicken it with the yolks of 
two or three eggs, some cream, anda 
little chopped parsley. 

Carp Roes fried.—Scald them as usual; 
and when they are well drained, mari- 
nate about an hour with lemon-juice and 
a little salt; drain and flour them to fry 
in a very hot friture, to give thema good 
brown colour; drain upon a sieve, or 
with a cloth; squeeze an orange over, 
and garnish with fried parsley. 

Carp Roes, Petits-patés maigres of .*¥— 
Blanch a fine carp roe in salt and water, 
cut itin small pieces, about three quar- 
ters of an inch square; place one of these 
upon each petit-pdté, which has been 
previously filled with a farce fine of carp 
roes. Finish them as usual (see Petzts- 
patés), and serve them with béchamelle 
MALZTe. 

Carp Roes, Pie of.* — Make a farce 
as follows: take a pound of pike or carp, 
and pound it well; then put with it a 
quarter of a pound of panada, and pound 
it again ; add a pound and a half of fresh 
butter, grated bacon or calf’s udder: 
when all is well mixed, add the yolks of 
four eggs, four spoonsful of fine herbs, 
eight drachms of spiced salt, and a spoon- 
ful of velowté, and a quarter of a pound 
of pounded anchovies. Take a score of 
carp roes, and a very fine turbot, cut 
them in pieces, weigh them, and put 
spiced salt proportioned to their weight. 


Slightly warm two pounds of fresh butter | 


‘with two spoonsful of shalots, four of 
parsley, champignons and truffles, shred 
fine. Prepare your pie as usual ; gar- 


nish the bottom and sides with the farce; | 


lay in some of the turbot; season them 


CAR 


with spiced salt, and mask them with 
a spoonful of butter and sweet herbs, 
and a little of the farce; then lay five of 
the carp roes, seasoned and masked 
as above; then the turbot, and so 
on, till the dish is filled; put in what- 
ever spice and farce which may re- 
main, and over the whole lay slices of 
bacon ; cover the pie, and bake it for 
three hours and a half. When done, 
remove the top, and pour in melted 
butter and sweet herbs. 

Carp Roes, Ragoidt of.—Soak slices of 
ham and veal about half an hour, on a 
slow fire; then add a good bit of butter, 
with mushrooms, two cloves, a faggot of 
sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of 
white wine, a little veal gravy and cullis; 
boil these till the veal is done, skim the 
liquor, and take out the veal and ham : 
scald the roes of carp in hot water, and 
then boil them in this cullis about a 
quarter of an hour, skimming it well; 
(it ought to be as thick as very good 
cream), Season it with pepper, salt, and 
a lemon squeezed ; when ready, serve it 
as an entremet. You may make it in 
maigre, but in that case you must have 
fish for the cullis, instead of ham and 


veal. 

CARRAWAY Cake.—Dry a quarter 
ofa peck of fine flour in an oven; ruba 
pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till 
it is crumbled so small that none of it is 
to be seen; then take six spoonsful of 
rosé-water, half a pint of canary, half a 
pint of cream, and three quarters of a 
pint of new ale yeast, and the whites of 
two, and yolks of four eggs; mix all 
these well together, let it lie before the 
fire, and when you make it up putin a 
pound and a half of Naples biscuits, and 
three quarters of a poundof carraway- 
comfits. Bake it. 

Carraway Cakes.—To a pound of 
flour, add a pound of fresh butter, eight 
spoonsful of good yeast, four spoonsful of 
rose-water, the yolks of three eggs, as 
many carraways as_ you please, four 
ounces of sugar, and some ambergris$; 
knead all into a paste, make it up into 
any form you please, and when they 
come out of the oven, strew powder- 
sugar. 

Carraway Comfits.—Take some fine 
carraway seeds, sift all the dust from 
them, and have a large copper preserv- 
ing-pan, about two feet wide, and with 
two handles and two pieces of iron made 
as a ring on each side; then you must 
have a pulley fixed to the beam, and a 
cord with a hook to each end, so as to 
fix it at each side of the pan to let it 
sling; then have some fine starch as 
ene a8 you can get, and just soften it, 











CAR 


boil some syrup a quarter of an hour, 


and mix it with the starch; take some 


gum arabic, put it into some water, then 
put that into another pan, and make it 
just warm; have an iron-pot with char- 
coal fire under the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the pan warm 5 
have a large tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must be on 
the top; put the carraway seeds into 
your pan; add a large ladleful of gum 
arabic, rub them with your hands until 
you find they are all dry, then put a 
ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the 
same over your pan of fire, until you find 
they are all dry ; put the gum only three 
or four times to them at first, then the 
Starch and sugar, but boil your syrup 
more as you find they come to coat with 
it, and not so much starch; when you 
have dried them seven or eight times, 
put them into your sieve; put them into 
the stove, do them the next day, and so, 
successively, for six or seven days. 

Carraway Dragées.*—Take any quan- 
tity of carraway seeds you think proper, 
put them intoa preserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a 
little at a time, stirring it occasionally, 
till of the size you wish; then proceed 
as directed for 4/mond Dragées. _. 

Carraway Puffs.—Beat the whites of 
four eggs to a sojid froth; add to them 
sifted sugar and some carraway seeds, 
pounded very fine; put the mixture, 
with a spoon, in pieces about the size of 
ashilling, as high as you can, on sheets 
of damp wafer paper, and bake them in 
a slack oven. 

Carraway /Vater.—Take three gal- 
lons of proof spirits, and half a gallon of 
water; add to them half a pound of car- 
raway seeds, bruised; distil and sweeten 
the juice with a pound and a half of 
brown sugar. 

CARROTS,—If young, need only be 
wived when boiled ; if old, they must be 
scraped before boiling. Slice them into 
a dish, and pour melted butter over them. 

Carrots, au beurre.*—Scrape ten or 
twelve carrots, as near of a size as pussi- 
ble; cut them into thin slices, blanch 
them in water with salt and a small piece 
of butter. When done, drain them in a 
cullender, and then put them into a 
stewpan with a good bit of butter, salt, 
pepper, and a little nutmeg, shake them 
over the fire, pour to them a spoonful of 

velouté,or water only, to Peat the but- 
ter from oiling; do not let it quite boil. 
You may add fine herbs, if you please. 

Carrot Cake.*—Take a dozen large 
and very red carrots; scrape and boil 
them in water with a little salt; when 


done, drain them, take out the hearts, | 


( 124 ) 


yolks of six Hyer 


CAR 


and rub the rest through a bolting; put 
them in a stewpan, and dry them over the 
fire. Make a cream pdtissiére, with 
about half a pint of milk ; and when done 
mix it with the carrots ; adda pinch of 
minced orange-flowers pralinée, three 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, 
four whole eggs; putin, one at a time, the 
and a quarter of a 
pound of melted butter; mix all these 
ingredients together well; whip up the 
six whites to a froth, and stir them in 
by degrees. Butter a mould, and put 
some crumb of bread in it, ina minute 
or two, turn out all the bread, and three 
quarters of an hour before the cake is 
wanted, pour the preparation into the 
mould and bake it. Serve it hot. 
Carrots dressed the Dutch way.— 
Slice some carrots very thin, and just 
cover them with water ; season them with 
pepper and salt, cut a good many onions 
and parsley small, a piece of butter; let 
them simmer over a slow fire till done. 
Carrots @ la Flamande.—Peel and 
parboil some small carrots, then put 
them into a stewpan with butter and 
salt; let them stew over a slow fire till 
done ; then take them off, and after stir- 
ring them up with more butter, serve 
them. 
Carrot Friiters.—Beat two or three 
boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon; 
add to them six eggs anda handful of 
flour; moisten them with either cream, 
milk, or white wine, and sweeten thein. 
Beat all together well, and fry in boiling 
lard. When of a good colour, take them 
off and squeeze on them the juice ofa Se- 
ville orange, and strew over fine sugar. 
Carrots (Garniture of).*—Cut fine 
carrots into pieces about an inch in 
length, in the form of mushrooms, gar- 
lick, or any thing else you may like; 
blanch them in boiling water with salt 
and butter, take them out and put them 
into a stewpan with stock, or consommée 
and fine sugar ; stew it to a glaze, and if 
your sauce be not thick enough, adda 
little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and 
sauce tournée. Serve with fried crusts. 
Carrots, @ la d’ Orléans.—Take a few 
young carrots, turn them of an equal. 
size, and cut them in slices about the 
eighth of an inch in thickness, and 
blanch them well. Next, lay them ona 
cloth to drain; put them into a stewpan 
with a lump of sugar and a little broth, 
and let them boil over a large fire; when 
reduced to glaze, adda good bit of fresh 
butter and a litile salt. The butter must 
adhere to the carrots when you serve, 
as nosauce ought to be seen. 
Carrot Pudding.—Boila large carrot 
tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar, 














CAR 


and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit- 
powder, four yolks, and. two whites of 
eggs, a pint of cream, a little ratafia, a 
large spoonfal of orange-flower or rose 
water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two 
Ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow 
dish lined with paste; turn it out, and 
Serve with sugar over. 

Carrots en Purée.—Scrape and cut 
some carrots in quarters, take out the 
inside pale yellow, and do not use it. 
When you have washed the outsides, 
boil them in plenty of water, with salt, 
till tender, then drain them on a sieve, 
and put them on a stewpan with a good 

- bit of butter ; stir them over the tire with 
a wooden spoon ; when the butter begins 
to fry and the carrots well mashed, put 
in a small ladteful of good consommé, a 
very little sugar and salt; continue to 
stir them until nearly reduced to the 
thickness they were at first; add three 
table-spoonsful of sauce tournée, stir it 
on the fire for three minutes, and rub it 
through the tammy in a large dish; if 
too thick, add a little more consommé, 
put it in a stewpan, and before it is 
wanted, stir it over the fire to boil for 
four or five minutes; if not strong 
enough, mix in a bit of glaze. 

Carrots (Ragott of ).* — Cut some 
carrots about two fingers ia length, shap- 
ing them round; boil them a quarter of 
an hour in water, and then put them in 
a stewpan with some good stock, a glass 
of white wine, a burch of: sweet herbs, 
and a little salt; when done, add alittle 
cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the 
ragotit with any dish you please, ; 

Carrots with White Sauce.—Parboil 
and slice the carrots; boil them in a pint 
of water, a small piece of butter, and 

some salt; when done, and the sauce 
thick, make it into a sauce, blanche with 
butter and flour, and serve. j 
’ Carrots (Souffes of ).—Make a thick 
purée of carrots, but instead of broth use 
water, in which put a great deal of sugar, 
halfa spoonful of flour, a little salt, and 
a good bit of butter ; let all this boil till 
very tender; then put the yolks of six 
eggs, and mix all well together. The 
moment you are ready to send, beat the 
whites of the eggs, which throw in with 
the rest, and put it into the oven. 

CarroT Soup.—Put some beef bones, 
with four quarts of the liquor in which 
beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, 
two large onions, a turnip, pepper apd 
salt, into a stewpan, and stew for three 
hours. Have ready six large carrots, 
scraped and cut thin; strain the soup on 
them, and stew them till soft enough to 
pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth, 
then boil the pulp with the soup, which 


( 125 ) 


CAU i 
must be as thick as pease-soup. Use 
two wooden spoons to rub the carrots 
through. Make the soup the day before 
itis to be used; add cayenne. Pulp 
only the red part of the carrrot, and not 
the yellow. 

Carrots Stewed.—Scrape and wash 
the carrots, then blanch, and cut them 
in slices, next turn them a few times 
over the fire, with butter, salt, pepper, 
and shred parsley ; moisten with some 
milk, and when done thicken the sauce 
with the yolks of eggs and serve. . 

Another way.—Put the carrots into a 
stewpan with a few slices of bacon, some 
parsley, green onions, salt and pepper, 
moistened with stock, or gravy. Tetit 
stew till thick and reduced; serve alto- 
gether. La, 

Cassta_ (Candied). — Pound a little 
musk and ambergris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
lings. Having pounded them well to- 
gether, take aquarter of a pound of fine 
sugar, and as much water as will wet it, 
and boil it to a candy height, then put 
in your powder and mix well together. 
Butter some pewter saucers, and when 
it is cold turn it ont. 

Cassra (Ratufia of).*—Take a pound 
of cassia, half a pound of bitter cherries, 
a quarter ofa pound of cassia leaves, and 
half a drachm of cinnamon 3 _ bruise the 
two first, cut up the leaves, and pound 
the cinnamon, infuse these ingredients 
in three quarts of brandy for threeweeks. . 
Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart 
of water, and mix with the diqueur, and 
let it stand some time longer, then strain. 
and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CaupLe.— Boil up half a pint of fine 
gruel, witha bit of butter the size ofa large 
nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the 
same of white wine, one of capillaire, a 
piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. 

CaupiLe.—Make a fine smooth gruel of 
half-grits ; when boiled, strain it, stir it 
at times till cold. When wanted for use, 
add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with 
some nutmeg, According to taste, you 
may add, if you please, besides the wine, 
a spoonful of brandy, or lemon-juice. 

Caup.Le, Brown.—Boil the gruel the 
same as for white caudle, with six spoons- 
ful of oatmeal, and strain it; thenadda 
quart of good ale, not bitter; boil it, 
then sweeten it according to your taste, 
and add half a pint of white wine. When 
you donot put in the white wine, let it 
be half ale. 

Caun1eE, (4 Flour).—Rub smooth one 
dessert spoonful of fine flour into five 
large spoonsful of the very purest water. 
Put over the fire five spoonsful of new 
milk,add to it two bits of sugar; the in- 





CAU 


stant it boils, pour into it the flour and 
water, and stir it over a slow fire for 
twenty minutes, 

Caup1Le (Cold).— Boil a_ quart, of 
spring water; when cold, add the yolk 
of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, 
six spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taate, and one ounce of syrup of lemons. 

CauDLE (Rice). — Mix some grated 
rice with a little cold water, and then 
pour it into boiling water. When of a 
proper consistence add sugar, lemon- 
peel, and cinnamon; to.a quart of this 
puta glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. 

CauDLe (WV hite.)— Mix two spoonsful 
of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a 
blade or two of mace, and a_ piece of 
jemon-peel ; stir it often, and let it boil 
full twenty minutes; strain and sweeten 
it, add a littie white wine, nutmeg, and 
a little lemon-juice. 

CAULIFLOWERS (70 Dress).— Cut 
off the stalks, but leavea little green on ; 
boil them in spring water and salt; they 
are soon done, but they must not boil too 
fast. They may also be dressed in milk 
and water without salt. 

Second Way.—Blanch the cauliflowers 
a short time with a slice of streaky ba- 
con, butter and salt; when about. half 
done, put them in a stew-pan, with a 
little dlond, or veal gravy; reduce the 
gauce, and serve very hot. 

CautiFLowERs and Butter.* — Pre- 
pare two cauliflowers, and when they are 
drained, cut them in pieces, and put 
them in a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, 
seme salt, and lemon-juice; let them 
boil a little at first, then simmer; take 
care they are not done too much. Take 
them out, cover them with a sauce made 
with butter, worked with flour, the yolks 
of eggs, and a little cream. 

CAULIFLOWERS and Cheese.*—Make a 
sauce with cullis, a bit of butter, and 
pepper, but no salt. Putin a dish some 
grated Parmesan, or Gruyere cheese, 
place the cauliflowers(previouslywashed, 
picked and boiled) on this; pour the 
sauce over, and cover them with slices of 
Parmesan cheese, warmed, to make them 
adhere to the cauliflower. Colour it with 
a salamander. 

CautiriowErRS, Fried.— Pick, wash, 
and throw them into boiling water, with 
a little salt, and when three parts done, 
take them out, drain and put them into 
an earthen pan, with salt, pepper and 
vinegar; beat them up in this, and then 
fry them in a batter made as follows: 
three spoonsful of flour, two eggs, a little 
salt, some oil, and a_ tea-spoonful of 
brandy. , 

CauLirtowerRs Fried.* —When your 
cauliflowers are about three parts done, 


( 126 ) 





colour 
when b 


CAU 


‘make a thick white sauce, in which toss. 


them up, and then let them cool; just 
before wanted, dip them in batter, and. 
fry them in a hot pan; when of a nice 
serve them. They may. also, 


vinegar, salt, and pepper, in which they 
should be tossed up, instead of the white 
sauce, and then fried. apes 
CAULIFLOWERS @ la Génoise.*—After 
the cauliflowers are boiled, and are:cold, ~ 
sprinkle them with Gruyere and Par- 
mesan cheese grated; put them in a 
dish, buttered and strewed with cheese. 
Cover the cauliflowers with a thick white 
sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Strew 
bread crumbs on this, then pour butter 
over, then more bread crumbs. . Put the 
dish on hot ashes, and brown the tops. _- 
CauLIFLowERS and Gravy.*-—Blanch 
and drain the cauliflowers, heat them up 
in a little veal gravy or d/ond; when 
done, place it on a dish, and add any 
other gravy you may think proper. Be 
careful not to break the cauliflower. 
CauttFLowER Loaf.*—Trim and par- 
boil a fine cauliflower, then put it into 
cold water, and drain it. Line the bot- 
tom of a stewpan (of the size of the dish 
you intend to use), with slices of bacon, 
and place the cauliflower on them, with 
the head downwards. Make a stuffing 
with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, 
scallions, mushrooms, all chopped small, 
salt, pepper, and three eggs; when these 
are well mixed together, put it into the 
open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing 
it in with the hand ; season it well, and 
stew it with some stock. When the sauce 
is consumed, turn the cauliflower out 
carefully on the dish, take away the - 
bacon, and pour oyer it some cullis, with 
a little butter, and serve. : Alas, ois 
_CauLiFLoweErs @ la Magnonnaise.*— 
The cauliflowers, thoroughly washed and 
cleared of their leaves, must be put into 
boiling water, butter and salt; when 
rm, take the saucepan from the fire, 
and let the caulifiowers coel in the water. 
As soon as they are cold, drain and put 
them into oil, vinegar, salt, and a mig~ 
nonette, to soak tor two hours. Dish 
them in the form of a pyramid, as high 
as you can; mask them with a white 
magnonnaise, and place round them @ 
border of aspic jelly, cut. in triangles. 
Cauurrtowers Pickled. — Pull the 
largest and closest cauliflowers into 
sprigs} put them into an earthen dishy 
and sprinkle saltover them. Let them 
stand twenty-four hours; then put them 
into a jar, and pour salt and boiling 
water over them. Cover them close, 
and let them stand till next day; then 


take them ovt, and lay them on a coarse 


oiled and drained, be soaked in 











CED 


cloth to drain. Put them into glass jars, 
with a nutmeg sliced, and some mace in 
each. Cover them with distilled vine- 
gar, and secure them from the air. They 
will be fit to eat in a month. «| 
. Another Way.*—Cut the cduliflowers 
in pieces, and throw them into boiling 
water for a quarter of an hour; then lay 
them on cloths to drain. Put them ina 
jar with cloves and salt, and cover them 
with the best vinegar. 
CauLIFLowerRs, Potage of.* — Take 
two cauliflowers, boil, and then drain 
them, 
thicken a little bechamel maigre with 
the yolks of six eggs, and add a quarter 
of a pound of butter, salt, pepper, and a 
little nutmeg; put in the cauliflowers ; 
and when cold, divide them into pieces 
about the size of a pigeon’s egg; roll 
them in flour, and fry them in clarified 
butter: drain, and put them in your 
soup tureen, and pour over them some 
rich consommé. Serve it with grated 
cheese in a separate dish. 
- Catiirtowers (Rago of )—Pull two 
small, or one large cauliflower into pieces, 
and stew them in a rich brown cullis, 
seasoned with pepper and salt; put them 
on a dish, and pour the cullis over them. 
Garnish with sprigs of cauliflower, boiled 
very white. 

CauutFtowers @ la Reine.—Make a 
sauce with a little ham and fillet of veal 
cut in dice, a little butter, chopped pars- 
ley, shalots, anda clove of garlic: let it 
stew over the fire a little while, then add 
a few spoonsful of jelly-broth, and halfa 
pint of cream; reduce it to a good thick- 
ness, strain part of it into your dish, and 
place the cauliflower (properly prepared), 
therein; pour the remaining sauce over 
that: garnish with bread crumbs, and 
small bits of butter, and brown it in the 
oven. 

CauLiFLoweRsS in Salad.* — When 
you have prepared and boiled the cauli- 
flowers, drain and let them cool; cut 
them in pieces; season them with salt, 
pepper, oil and vinegar, and eat them 
as any other salad. 

CECILS. — Mix over the fire for a 
few minutes the following ingredients: 
minced meat of whatever kind you please, 
bread crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon- 
peel, nutmeg, parsley chopped, pepper, 
salt, a little butter, and some anchovies, 
When nearly cold, roll them up into balls 
about the size of an egg; moisten them 
with egg; strew bread crumbs over them, 
and fry them of a good clear colour: 
serve them with made gravy. 

CEDRATS, Bilanemange of.*—Grate 


- the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar in 


the usual:-way, until six ounces of sugar 


( 127 ) 


pressing them a little: then 


CED 


have been used; blanch and pound a 
pound of sweet almonds, moistening 
them with water; when perfectly smooth, 
dilute them with five glasses of water 
put in by degrees; then pour them ina 
napkin, and squeezing it, express the milk 
of almonds from them; divide this into 
two equal parts, with one of which mix 
the six ounces of sugar with the cedrat, 
and with the other portion, mix the 
same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon.as 
both are dissolved, strain them, and put 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it 
the white blanemange to three quarters 
of an inch in depth; as soon as that is 
set, pour in an equal quantity of the 
other, which ought to be of aclear yel- 
low ; when that also is set, pour in some 
white, and so on alternately, till the 
mould is full, Turn out the blane- 
mange as directed in Blanemange @ la 
Francoise. 

Blancmanges of the zestes of oranges, 
lemons, &c. are made in this manner. 

Creprar (Conserve of).—Prepare half 
a pound of sugar to the ninth degree ; 
put about an ounce of grated cedrat to 
it, and mix it; when the sugar is half 
cold, add a little lemon-juice, mix it 
well with a wooden spoon; warm the 
whole for a moment, and pour it into 
paper cases made for the purpose; when 
itis cool, cut it in cakes of what size you 
please. 

Creprat, Conserve of.*—Rub the rind 
of a fine sound cedrat ona piece of lump- 
sugar, scraping it as yau proceed: dis- 
solve this sugar in lemon-juice. Boil 
sugar (a pound for each cedrat), to foré 
perlé, then put in the cedrat and lemon, 
and proceed in the usual way. If you 
have not fresh cedrat, the preserved 
cedrat must be used as follows: pound 
half or a quarter of one of these fruits, 
pound and pass it through a sieve, and 
mix it with sugar boiled as above, and 
lemon-juice. 

Ceprat (Conserve of ).*—Grate the 
rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to ooze out; this must be done 
by rubbing it against a large piece of 
sugar, (about a pound); remove the sur= . 
face of this sugar to which the grated 
rind adheres, with a knife, and squeeze 
to it half the juice of the cedrat. Dis- 
solve the remainder of the sugar to the 
degree grande plume, then take it from 
the fire, and when it has stood a little 
while, put in your cedrat, stirring it with 
a spoon, until a sort of ice forms on the 
top; you may then pour your conserve 
into moulds. Be careful not to put it in 
too hot. SS 

Crprar Cream au Bain Marie.*—Rasp 





CED 


the rind of a cedrat on a piece of sugar 
weighing ten ounces, scrape off the sur- 
face, and rasp again as usual ; infuse this 
‘sugar in boiling milk; cover and let it 
stand till nearly cold, then mix it gra- 
dually with ten yolks, one whole egg, and 
a grain of salt. Strain, and finish as 
usual. See Cream au Bain Marie. 

Creprats, Distilled Cream of.*—Infuse 
the rinds of four very fine cedrats in 
three quarts of the best brandy, and a 
pint of water; close the vessel tight, and: 
let it stand several days. At the end of 
that time distil it in the dain marie. If 
the brandy is of the proper strength, the 
three quarts will yield two of the liquor ; 
to which put three pounds and a half of 
sugar, dissolved in three pints and a half 
of water; pass the whole through a 
straining bag, or filter it through pa- 

er. 
~ Oil of cedrats is made in the same 

manner, with the addition of a pound 
and a half more sugar, and half a pint of 
water. 
’ Ceprat Cream a la Frangotse.*—Rasp 
the rinds of two cedrats on ten ounces of 
sugar; which mix with the yolks of eight 
eggs, a grain of salt; add gradually five 
glasses of nearly boiling milk, stirring 
it constantly. The remainder of the 
operation is the same as in making 
Caeao Cream u la Franeoise. 

Ceprat Cream Patissiére.*—Rasp the 
rind of a cedrat in the usual way, ona 
quarter of a pound of sugar; crush with 
the latter an equal weight of sweet 
and six bitter macaroons; add this 
mixture to the cream, prepared as di- 
rected. See Cream Patissiére. 

Ceprats, Dried, Whole or in Quar- 
ters. — Take some preserved cedrats 
either whole or in quarters, wash them 
in alittle warm water; boil some syrup 
in another pan, till it comes to blow; 
take a large spoon. and rub it well to the 
sides of the pan till it comes white; dip 
your cedrats in, take them out and put 
them on wires over another pan; let 
them drain well, then put them into a 
hot stove on the wires for one day, till 
the candy dries all round them; when 
well dried, put them into boxes, and 
-lay a paper between every layer of 
cedrats. 

Ceprat Zeste, Fromage Bavarots of.* 
—Take halfa pound of lump sugar, rasp 
on it the zeste of cedrat, and as the sur- 
face of the sugar becomes coloured, 
scrape it off, and rasp again; dissolve 
the sugar in two glasses of nearly boil- 
ing milk; cover it, and when nearly cold, 
mix with it six drachms of clarified isin- 
glass, then strain, and place it in a bol 
in ice ; and when it begins to take, add 


( 128 ) 


CED 


caeetat bee ees 
to it the cream, and finish as Mromage 
Bavareig Oo oe te de Es 

‘Ceprat (Preserved) Genoises.*—Add 
to the usual ingredients (see Geneise), 
the pee] & a cedrat, grated on the sugar 
used; whén glazed, strew over them a 
quarter of a pound of preserved cedrat, 
cut small; dry them a minute or two in 
the oven. Bealls. Ree iraal 

Ceprat Ices.—Take a piece of loaf 
sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, 
which you must grate over a piece of 


paper, on the piece of loaf sugar, scrap- 


ing with a knife what sticks upon the 
sugar of the skin of the cedrat; when you 
have thus taken off the outer rind of the 
cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the 
sugar, take a little clarified sugar, boiled 
very fine, which add to the raspings or 
gratings of the cedrat, with what quan- 
tity of juice of lemon you think requie 
site for the quantity of ices you intend 
making, anda little water; pass the whole 
through a sieve, then ice it, and finish 
the same as all other ices. i 

Creprat Ice Cream. — Take two 
large spoonsful of essence of cedrat,, ‘put 
it into a bason, squeeze in three lemon 
and add one pint of cream; be carefu 
that all the essence is melted ; then pass 
it through a sieve, and freeze it accord- 
ing to custom. pS ae ; 

Ceprat Water Ice.—Take four ounces 
of essence of cedrat, put it into a bason, 
and add to it the juice of three lemons, 
two gills of syrup, and half a pint of 
water ; then pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it rich, and if you would have it in 
the shape of the cedrat, after you have 
filled your mould, close it well, and cover 
it with half asheet of brown paper before 
you put it in the ice. 

Ceprats Zestes, Jelly of.*—Take 
three quarters of a pound of Jump sugar, 
grate on it the zestes of two cedrats, and, 
as the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it 
off with a knife, and grate again, and so 
cn until all the zeste is gone; dissolve 
the scraped sugar in twoglasses of water, 
and, with the juice of four lemons, pass it 
through a jelly bag. Clarify the remain- 
der of the sugar, and then puta fourth of 
it into a small preserving pan ; boil it to 
caramel height, to colour the jelly; mix 
this, the fruit, the syrup, and an ounce 
of isinglass together, and finish in the 
usual way. ae 

Creprats Whole, Liquid.— Get the ce- 
drats at the Italian warehouse; make a 
hole through the middle. of them at the 
thick end; put them in a large pre- 
serving pan with water, and boil them 
one hour and a half; then drain all the 
water from them; set them up end- 
ways, to drain the water out of the 








7 
tees 


wet 


Ten. 


CED 


ends ; boil some syrup in a large pre- 
Serving pan twenty minutes, then put 
the cedrats into a large earthen deep 


pan, pour the syrup over them, and 


let them stand two days before you touch 
them; then boil them with syrup half an 


hour ; (do not let them be too soft), put | 


them into the pan, and cover them with 
paper; the next day drain the syrup 
from them, boil and pour it on them 
again, and repeat it so for ten days, al- 
ways keeping them covered with syrup; 
when done, put them into your pots, and 
when cold cover them with apple jelly ; 
take care your pots are dry. 

Creprat Madelaines.*—Grate on some 
sugar the rinds of two cedrats; crush this 
Sugar, and mix it with as much powder 
sugar as will make together nine ounces ; 
put it into a stewpan with half a pound of 
sifted flour, six whole and four yolks of 
eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, 
and a little salt; stir this mixture well, 
until the paste is formed, alter which stir 
it one minute, but no longer. When 
your moulds are buttered, put nine 
ounces of clarified butter into the pre- 
paration, which must be placed over a 
very slow fire, stirring it lightly, and as 
soon as it becomes liquid, pour a spoon- 
ful into each mould, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. 

Instead of cedrats may be substituted 
the rind of oranges, (sweet or Seville), 
lemons, or crisped orange flowers. 

CrepRAT (preserved) Madelaines.*— 
Cut two ounces of preserved cedrat 
into small -equal sized pieces, which 
mix with the paste when about to be put 
into the moulds. No other odour must 
be put in. 

Ceprat Pudding, en Timbale.*—Cut 
the crumb of a roll into slices, and pour 
over them two glasses of boiling milk, 
Ret it on the fire, and stir it constantly, 
till it becomes a very spongy paste; then 
rub it in a mortar with six yolks and two 
wholeeggs. Put this paste into a sauce- 
pan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
(on which the zeste of a cedrat has been 
rasped), two ounces of bitter macaroons, 
three of dried currants, three of raisins, 
stoned, and cut in half, six of marrow, 
shred fine, half a glass of Madeira, a 
pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg 
grated. When these ingredients are we!l 
mixed together, pour them into a butter- 
ed_ mould, and bake it for an hour and a 
half in a moderate oven. 

Ceprat /Vater.—Takea large wooden 
spoonful of the essence of cedrat, put it 
in a bason, squeeze three lemons; add 
three gills of syrup, and a sufficient 
quantity of water; make it according to 
your taste, be careful thatall the essence 


( 129 ) 


CEL 


is melted; andif it is not rich enough, 
add more syrup} pass it through a sieve, 
and it will then be fit for use. 

Creprat Water.—Take the yellow 
rinds of five cedrats, a gallon of proof 
spirit, and two quarts of water, digest the 
whole in a vessel close stopped for twen- 
ty-four hours, then draw off one gallon, 
and sweeten with fine sugar. f 

Another way.*—Distil in an_alembic 
bain marie, the rinds of four cedrats and 
one lemon, in three pints of brandy ; 
from this you may draw nearly a pint and 
a half of Aqueur. Dissolve two pounds 
of refined sugar in a pint of pure river 
water, mix it with the igueur, filter and 
bottle it. 

Crtrry.—This root is generally put 
into soups, but very little is sufficient, as 
the flavour is much stronger than other 
vegetables. 5: ges pars 

To make a ragotit for meat with it, 
soak and wash it well in cold water; 
then boil for half an hour, and shift it 
into cold water ; drain it well, and stew 
it with some stock and cullis; take the 
fat off, season, and serve it. at 

When very white and tender it is 
eaten raw; and as a salad, with salt, 
pepper, oil, vinegar and mustard. | 

CeLery Cream.—Pvut half a pint of 
cream and a pint of milk into a stewpan, 
with nearly a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and let it boil tilla third is consumed 3 
take two heads of celery, let them boil 
in the cream just time enough to flavour 
it. Strain the cream and beat up with 
it the yolks of five eggs, a little flour, and 
set it in hot water over the fire, taking 
care it does not boil. If you wish to 
serve it cold, put in neither eggs nor 
flour, bat when the cream is strained, 
and is lukewarm, mix it with runnet, 
strain and put it into a dish for table; 
set it over hot embers, put a cover over, 
and hot embers on that, and let it re- 
main till the cream is set; keep it in a 
cool place till ready to serve. 

CrLtery Creum.* — Cut two well- 
washed heads of celery into small pieces, 
and boil them in half a pint of water; 
strain the decoction, and add to ita pint 
of cream, four ounces of sugar, a little 
coriander and cinnamon, the zeste of a 
lemon, and a spconful of orange-flower- 
water; reduce it over the fire, to half 
the quantity, and whilst the cream 13 
lukewarm, put in some gizzards, chopped 
very small; stir them well in, and then 
strain it; place it in hot cinders, cover 
it, and put fire also on the top ; when 
the cream is set, place it on ice to cool. 

Cretery, Fried.*—Blanch the heart 
and white leaves of celery, and stew it 
in a little stock; dry it in cloths 5 cut it 


CEL 


batter, and frythem. Sprinkle salt over 
them when you serve. . 

Another WVay.—Wash and cut off the 
green tops of six or eight heads of fine 
celery, and dip each head into batter 
made as follows: a pint of white wine, 
the yolks of three eggs beat fine, a little 
salt and nutmeg; fry the heads in but- 
ter. Serve with melted butter over. 

CreLery Fritters.* — Take about a 
dozen heads of celery, and cut them six 
inches above the roots, which must be 
rounded ; wash them well, blanch them 
for a quarter of an hour, then let them 
cool and drain; tie them up in four 
packets ; line a stew-pan with slices of 
bacon, and put on them your celery, a 
bunch of herbs, seasoned with salt, and 
moistened with skimmings of the pot, 
cover them with bacon and paper; stew 
them, and when done drain and _ press 

them. Then soak them in brandy and 
sugar 3 dip them in batter, and fry them. 
Drain, glaze, and serve them. 

Cetery for Garniture*—For this pur- 
pose the heart and white leaves only 
must be used. Brown in a stewpan, a 
little fat, and a spoonful of flour ; add a 
small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, 
and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an 
hour, then put in the celery, and some 
gravy, and reduce them over the fire. 

Cezery au Gratin.—Take a dozen 
heads of white celery, trim off the stringy 
parts, and cut the rest into pieces about 
the size of a shilling; boil them tender, 
and then stew them in good ¢gonsommé, 
with a bit of butter, a little sugar and 
salt. When nearly done drain and toss 
them up in some béchamelle, with the 
yolk of an egg; put themin a dish, and 
shake some fine bread crumbs over, and 
with a spoon sprinkle some clarified but- 
ter on that, and then bread-crumbs 
again. Brown it with a salamander. 

CELERY, (Purée of ).—Cut the whitest 
part of several heads of celery, and 
blanch them ia water to take out the bitter 
taste; let it cool and drain. Then put 
it into a stewpan, with a little consommé 
and sugar. Let itstew for an hour and 
a half, and be reduced till no moisture 
remains, then mix it with four spoonsful 
of béchamelle or velouté; strain the whole 
through a tammy, and putit in the dain 
marie. When ready to serve, putin a 
little thick cream. 

CELERY ee, of ).—Cut the white 
‘part into lengths, and boil it till tender, 
fry and drain, and flour it, put it into 
some rich gravy, a little red wine, ealt, 
pepper, nutmeg, andecatsup. Boilitup. 

Cetery Sawce.—Cuta dozen heads of 
fine celery into pieces about the size of 


( 130 ) 


in pieces, and dip them in good plain 


CEL 
a shilling; blanch, and pnt them into a 
small stewpan, with consommé enouzh to 
cover them, a small bit of butter, a little 
sugar and salt, and lay a round paper 
over the whole; let them stew gently, 
till nearly done, then shake them up in 
béchamelie sauce. as 
Second /Vay.—Cut boiled celery into 
pieces two inches long; put them ihtoa 
stew-pan with some veal gtavy which 
tastes strong of spices and herbs, thicken 
it with three quarters of a pound of but- 
ter rolled in flour, and half a pint of 
cream ; boil it up, and squeeze in some 
lemon-juice. ; 
Third Way.*—Blanch about a pound 
of fillet of veal in some stock ; stick it 
with stalks of celery, in the same manner 
as larding it; slice some Onions into a 
stewpan, also two carrots, and a small 
piece of bacon stuck with cloves, lay in 
the veal, and let it stew gently till it 
begins to burn, and stick to the bottom 
of the pan; then put in a little stock, 
and let it boil over a slow fire for three 
hours. Pass it through an unbleached 
napkin, and serve with whatever meat 
you please. Garnish your dish with the 
veal, cut in pieces, andlaidround. 
CeLery Sauce, (Brown). — Cut into 
lengths as before; boil and drain it; put 
in in some good gravy, with a little flour 
mixed in smooth, a little ketsup, pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg; boil all up to-- 
gether, ae 
Crxery Soup.—Neatly trim and wash 
two dozen heads of fine celery, split each 
in two, and put them to blanch in a large 
stew-pan of water with plenty of salt ; 
when tender drain them on a sieve, and 
stir the soup over the fire, with about 
three ounces of butter, and a very little 
sugar and salt. When the butter begins 
to look clear, mix in a ladle of consommé, 
when that has boiled for a few minutes 
and thecelery is perfectly mashed, stir 
in three table-spoonsful of sauce tournée, 
and when this is well boiled rub tae 
whole through a tammy; add a pint of 
strong consommée, and nearly as much 
thick cream. Put it into the soup pot, 
and half an hour before you want it, set 
it on the fire to boil,ahd skim it. Serve 
it with celery cut round, blanched and 
stewed. If you wishthe soup to be brown 
instead of white, use espagnole, and no 
cream. 
Cetery Stewed.—Boil till tender the 
white part, and cut it in pieces; stir some 
cream over the fire, with two yolks of 
eggs,putin the celery, salt, pepper, mace, 
and grated lemon-peel; shake all to- 
gether, but do not let it boil. 
Another Way.—Boila dozen heads of 
fine celery in salt and water till nearly 

















SSH eeesge aera > 


CHA 


done; then set them to stew between 
lards of fat bacon, with consommé euough 
to cover them ; when very tender drain 
them on a sieve, and serve with good 
béchamelle sauce. 

Cetery on Toast. — Cut some well 
buttered toast into pieces about three 
inches square, lay on them celery stewed 
according to the second receipt, and 
Serve it to table. 

CHAMBORD. — This is a ragofit 
made of cock’s-combs, cock’s kidneys, 
fat livers, and fowl’s eggs. The combs 
must be scalded as follows:—Put them 
into a towel with coarse salt, then holc- 
ing each corner of the towel, dip the part 
containing the combs into boiling water, 
eave it in for a minute, and then take it 
out and rub the whole together, to take 
off the first skin that is about the combs, 
and open your towel; if the combs be 
not sufficiently skinned, dip them into 
boiling water a second time, but they 
must not get too firm, as that will pre- 
vent their whitening. When properly 
skinned, pare the little black points that 
the blood may be taken out. Put them 
into a pint of water and let them lay on 
a corner of the stove with very little fire, 
for two hours ; then blanch and put them 
into a little blanc; take care not to do 
them too much; the kidneys must not 
boil, as they would break ; boil the eggs 
alittle to take off the first skin, throw 
the whole into édlanc, and when the 
combs are done, have ready some espag- 
nole, and a pint of Madeira (both reduced 
and then mixed together), with large 
mushrooms turned, and some small 
guénelies, which have been poached se- 
parately. Mix all together, and drain 
the ragotit, the combs, the kidneys, and 
the eggs. Put the whole into the sauce 
with the qguénelles; stir gently, not to 
break the latter; season it well. Add to the 
above, a garnish of soft roes of carp, some 
good-sized cray-fish, and two spoonsful 
of essence of anchovies. To poach the 
guénelles, two raust be used, fil) one with 
the farce which has been levelled all 
round with a knife dipped into boiling 
water. With the other spoon, which is 
also Jying in boiling water, take the gué- 
nelle out, and putthem into a buttered 
stewpan, and boil them for a quarter of 
an hour. A small quantity of salt is re- 
quired in the water. : 

CHANTILLY Basket.—Dip some ra- 
tafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place them round the 
inside of a dish; then cut more ratafia 
cakes into squares, dip them also into 
sugar, and pile them corner-ways on the 
row, and so on for two or three stories 
high. Line the inside with wafer-paper, 


(131 ) 


CHA 


and fill it with sponge biscuit, sweet-. 
meats, blanched almonds, or some made 
cream; put trifle over that, and garnish 
the froth with rose-leaves, coloured com- 
fits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly 
over the top. ' 
CHAR.—-Cleanse them, cut off the 
fins, tails, and heads, and lay them in 
rows in a long baking-pan, first season-. 
ing them with pepper, salt, and mace. 
When done, let them stand till cold, pot 
them, and pour clarified butter over. 
CHARD au gras.*—Blanch and dress 
them the same as celery; boil them 
quickly in water, with salt and a little 
butter; drain and put them in a stew. 
pan, with butter worked. up with flour, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and b/ond. When 
nearly done, add alittle verjuice or vine- 
ey thicken the sauce, and serve quite 
ot 


Cuarps ad la Venitienne.—Prepare the 
chards the same as Chards au gras, and 
finish in the same manner as for Cardoons 
and Cheese. 

CHARLOTTE (4).—Cut a sufficient 
number of thin slices of white bread to 
cover the bottom and line the sides of a 
baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with 
butter, Put thin slices of apples into 
the dish in layers, till the dish is full, 
strewing sugar and bitsof butter between, 
In the mean time, soak as many thin 
slices of bread as wil] cover the whole, in 
warm milk; over which place a plate, 
and a weight, to keep the bread close 
upon the apples; let it bake slowly for 
three hours, For a middling-sized dish, 
you should use half a pound of butter for 
the whole. 

CuareLoTre (4).* — This entremets 
may be madeof any kind of fruit you 
please, and is eaten hot. Ifapples are 
used, pare, core, and cut about a score 
of them into small pieces, and put them 
into astewpan with some water, a good 
piece of fresh butter, powder-sugar, 
pounded cinnamon, and grated lemon- 
peel, and stew till the water is dried up; 
then set them to cool in an earthenware 
vessel. Cut some very thin slices of 
crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh. 
butter, and lay them neatly al! over the 
bottom and round the sides of the stew- 
pan; then pour inthe apples, leaving a 
hole in the middle, in which put apricot 
marmalade. Cover the whole with bread, 
sliced thin, and buttered as above. 
Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, 
and turn it out. 

Another way.*—Cut as many very thin 
slices of white bread as will cover the 
bottom, and line the sides of a baking= 
dish rubbed with butter, Slice apples 
thin, place them on the bread, strew 


CHA 


powder-sugar over, and bits of butter; 
then put a layer of apples, sugar, and 
butter, and so on till you have filled the 
dish. Have ready some bread, cut thin 
and soaked in warm milk; lay a plate on 
the Charlotte, and a weight on that. 
Bake it in aslow oven for three hours. 
Half a pound of butter is the proper 
quantity. . 

Cuarworre @ la Frangoise.* — This 
charlotte is made in the same way as 
that @ la Parisienne, only that eroguettes 
a& la Parisienne, and a cream blanc- 
mange are used, instead of the biscuits 
and fromage bavurois. Finish it in the 
same way. 

CuarworTe @ l’Italienne.*—Make a 
small iextremets of rum genozses, cut in 
pieces like spoon-biscuits, with which 
line a plain reund mould, fill the char- 
lotte with ram cream-p/ombzére, with the 
addition of four drachms of clarified 
isinglass; cover the cream with genoises, 
and finish it in the usual way. 

Cuagworte @ la Parisienne.*—Take a 
quarter of a pound of well glazed spoon- 
biscuits, and a small case of green pista- 
chio biscuits, which must be cut in thin 
slices, and then formed into lozenges ; 
arrange these at the bottom ofa plain oc- 
tagon mould, in the form of a star, and 
with the remainder cover the sides of the 
mould, placing them upright, and the 
glazed sides next the mould; fili the in- 
terior with a vanilla fromage-bavarois, 
but do not put it in till the moment ke- 
fore it is sent to table; then cover the 
Jromage with biscuits, and surround the 
mould with pounded ice for about forty 
minutes, then turn it on a dish for 
table. 

CHARTREUSE.— Prepare some apples, 
and place them in a dish like apples @ 
la Turque, in a purée; pare and quarter 
and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them 
in sugar as for a compote. Warm some 
currant jelly and apricot jam, dip the 
quarters alternately into each, and place 
them on the apples according to your 
taste. Warm the whole very gently. 

CHARTREUSE @ la Paristenne en sur- 
prise.*—J3oil eight fine truffles in some 
white wine, and when cold, skin and cut 
them lengthwise with a root cutter, 
half an inch in diameter ; then take a 
hundred cray-fish tails, (or carrots pre- 
paredas for chartreuse printunier), trim, 
and lay them at the bottom of a but- 
tered mould, on them place the truffles 
round the sides of the mould, so as to 
form an ornamental border, of some 
open, pleasing pattern, the spaces be- 
tween the truffles being filled with the 
filets mignons of chickens, previously 
browned in butter, and properly trimmed. 


( 132) * 


CHA. 
On the top of this border lay a crown or 


ring of the cray-fish tails to correspond 
with the bottom, and cover the whole 
to the thickness of an inch, witha qué- 
nelle farce, pretty firm; then fill the 
middle with a blanquette of fowl, veal or 
lamb sweetbread, or a ragoiit, or any 
thing else you may think proper, leaving. 
three quarters of an inch space at the 
top, which must be filled with a farce # 
cover the whole with a buttered paper, 
and put it in the dazn-marie for an hour 
and a half. When turned out of the 
mould, make a crown of small white 
champignons, lay this on the top near 
the edge, and in the centre a single 
champignon, round which place eight 
filets mignons, in the form of a rosette. 
CuartTreuse Printannier.* — Scrape 
two bunches of carrots and two of turnips, 
and then cut them into pieces, about two 
inches long and three quarters of an inch 
in diameter, and throw them into cold 
water; blanch them, and then separate 
them. When cold, put them into some 
good stock with a small quantity of su- 
gar, and set them on the edge of the 
stove until nearly done, when they 
should be placed over a hot stove. In - 
the meanwhile take the trimmings of 
the carrots and turnips, a dozen onions, 
with a few cloves, six heads of celery, 
and two lettuces, moisten them with 
some good stock, and Jet the whole sim- 
mer gently, skimming it well, until the 
vegetables are thoroughly done; then 
strain the liquor from them; and when 
it has stood a little time, strain it again, 
so that it may be quite clear, then stir 
up with it some espagnole. 
Take three small cabbages cut into 
quarters, blanch them, open each quar- 
ter, and season it with a little salt; tie 
them up, and put them in a stewpan,. 
lined with ham and bacon, with a sau- 
sage, a piece of bacon, two small par- 
tridges larded, parsley, and green onions, 
season the whele, and cover it with slices. 
of bacon, moisten it with poé/e or con-° 
sommé, and let it stew over a gentle fire 
for two hours. ' 
Whilst the above is cooking, drain the 
carrots and turnips, and place them ac- 
cording to fancy in a buttered mould, so 
as to cover the sides and bottom com- 
pletely; then drain the cabbages in a 
cullender, and press the other ingre-— 
dients in a napkin ; trim the bacon, and 
cut the sausages into thin slices ; lay the 
cabbages lightly in the mould; then the 
bacon and sausages like a cord; then 
place the partridges, breasts downwards, 
the bacon and sausages on them, and fill 
the mould (making the top quite flat) 
with the cabbages ; ‘lay a buttered paper 


a ee 





CHE 


over the whole, and put it into the bain- 
marze for an hour. Before it is turned 
from the mould let it drain well; when 
ready for table, the dish and chartreuse 
may be ornamented in various ways, ac- 
cording to fancy. 

- CHEESE.—To select good cheese is a 
department of marketing that requires 
great judgment ; a nice palate, and a 
sensitive nose are the two chief requisites ; 
but the eye is a necessary organ, not 
only for detecting what escapes the en- 
ony of these senses, as mites, decay, 

c., but with good judges it will usually 
tell a prime cheese from an indifferent 
one, by the texture and colour alone. 

In choosing this necessary article, at- 
tention must be paid tothe appearance 
of the rind. Cheshire cheese, from a 
good dairy, isin its prime at two years, 
provided it kas been well kept. A damp 
storehouse produces premature decay, 
and fills it with mites. 

Cheese, even of the finest quality, is 
apt to deceive those unacquainted with 
the article, both in taste and smell, when 
judging by the taster, or when first cut, 
as it will frequently possess a strong and 
unpleasant flavour, although in a few 
days after being cut, exposure to the air 
will render it pure and agreeable to the 
smell and taste. It is hence the custom 
with experienced caterers to lay in a 
stock of Cheshire cheese, and to keep it 
in a dry cellar in saw-dust, in a box, by 
which,in two or three months,it improves, 
and is fitto cut. It isthen well to divide 
it into two parts, or to take outa fourth, 
according to its size; spread butter on 
the part to be reserved, and keep it in 
adry place; that for use should be ex- 
posed in the larder on the cheese shelf, 
three or four days, when it will be ready 
for the table. A certain late worthy Al- 
derman and Vintner, famed fer his know- 
ledge of the larder, for many years was 
accustomed to put Cheshire cheeses in a 
sack, cover them with a basket, and 
bury them under bis summer stock of 
coals, and in the winter, as they reduced, 
he used to say, ‘* Now is the time for my 
old Cheshire.”’ No cheese of equal fla- 
vour, perhaps, was eaten in the city of 
London. 

We speak of Cheshire, par excellence, 
as the most piquant and fine-flavoured 
of English cheese, although the modern 
gourmands are pleased to designate the 
Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. 

Good Stilton, however, such as may he 

urchased atCu)lum/’s in Old Bond-street, 
is a treat for the most refined palate, and 
is generally preferred at the tables of the 
great, even by those Amphytricns, whose 


( 133 ) 


CHE 
authority few will be hardy enough to 
dispute. 

Stilton cheese, made in May or June, 
is usually served at table at Christmas. 
If made at a capital dairy, however, it is 
in better order at ten, or even twelve 
months, or, if well managed, even ata 
later period. 

It is customary with certain tavern- 
keepers to produce an artificial ripeness 
on Stilton, to please those pseudo con- 
noisseurs, their vain customers, who 
boast loudly of their superior taste in 
these matters, when in the chair, and 
who verify the couplet of the inimitable 
poet— 


** Doubtless the pleasure is as great 
In being cheated as to cheat.”’ 


Mine host, manages the matter thus :— 
A Stilton, with a rugged and picturesque 
coat, is tapped, and in the aperture is 
inserted a small piece of mzte-touched old 
Cheshire, and then stopped with a wet 
cloth. In three weeks or a month it is 
rape enough, and relished by the con- 
vives with its concomitant, a glass of 
port, as a bonne bouche fit for the gods! 
Certain epicures are accustomed to 
make a conical excavation on the top of 
a Stilton, and to pour therein from two 
to four glasses, or even more, of port, 
claret, or Madeira wine, which being 
absorbed for three weeks or a month, 
they maintain, improves its flavour. 
There is no disputing with a variety of 
tastes. On some occasions an accidental 
flavour may be thus attained, which may 
be palatable; but, on the authority of 
one of the best judges of these matters, 
we venture to say, that many a prime 
Stilton has been spoiled by such whimsical 
practices ; and we are assured, as well by 
the dairyman, cheesemonyer, and is that 
the first cooks, that the finest Stilton, 
which ripens without any artificial aid. 
North Wiltshire cheese has long ac- 
quired deserved celebrity, being rich, 
and of fine flavour ; these ere fit for the 
table at nine menths, but, if carefully 
kept, they are in perfection at twelve 
months. i 
Double Gloucester, is also a cheese in 
great repute, and if madeat a good dairy 
is in prime order from nine to twelve 
months. This makes an excellent Welch 
rabbit, and is capital for a stew, if care- 
fully dressed in a cheese-toaster. 
- Single Gloucester, which, when suc-- 
cessfully made, is of a fine delicate fla- 
vour, is generally used at the taverns 
for a, Welch rabbit. It is fit for the table 
in five or six months. 
Pas chee ec however, when from 


CHE 


the best dairies, being of a delicate fla- | 
| wine, and brushing and turning them 


vour, and agreeable texture, is preferred 
to all others, by the cognoscent2, for 
toasting. A Welch rabbit, 
cooked, of Derbyshire cheese, is served 
with éclat at the best appointed tables. 

Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem 
at the best tables. It is in its prime from 
nine to twelve months, © 
~ Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of 
Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem 
at the first Scottish tables, and is consi- 
dered a handsome present to an English 
- family; and due honours are paid to the 
Ayrshire dairies, asoften as it 1s set upon 
the English board. The Great Unknown 
has celebrated the Dunlop cheese in his 
¢¢ Heart of Mid Lothian.’”? : 

Of cream cheeses, there are various 
sorts, and for which the English dairies 
are famed. Amongst others, the Cotten- 
ham, when in its prime, is of delicious 
flavour. The Bath cream cheese is also 
delectable, and others, which are eaten 
equally new, particularly those from a 
certain town in Bedfordshire, the name 
of which we do not recollect; these, and 
many more of excellent quality, are thin 
in form; the Stilton is also a cream 
cheese, though amongst the thickest 
that come from an English dairy. 

Of foreign cheese, the Parmesan, 
which being first made at Parma, in 
Italy, hence derives its name, still 
maintains pre-eminence over all others. 
The manufacture of this cheese was 
formerly confined to the dairies of Parma 
and Piacenza; and where, for a long 
period, the best were made; of late, 
however, the district of Lodi is most 
celebrated for this cheese. 

The Gruyere from Switzerland, the 
Rochefort, made of ewes’ milk, and the 
Neufchatel from France, are cheeses 
served as delicacies upon an English 
table; but the true English Cheshire is 
held superior to all these, even by the 
learned gastronomists of Paris, 

“In having the care of the cheese for 
the parlour, or for the family in general, 
says an anonymous writer, let a broad 
hanging shelf be hung, either in the 
wine or strong beer cellar, as neither 
rats nor mice can then get at the cheese, 

If you keep cream cheeses, put them 
between two plates or dishes to ripen, 
with some fresh leaves from the garden, 
and turn them every morning; and for 
all other cheeses have a rack or two 
made in the cellar, for it will be a means 
of improving them daily. A large space 
in the rack should be left for the Che- 
shire, brick-bat, and dolphin cheeses, 
&c, &c.; and nothing improyes them, or 
makes them go farther, than putting 


( 134 ) 


capitally 


CHE 
three or four on each pipe or cask of 


every week; but if there are no casks of 
wine, put them on the tops of the strong 
beer casks. Cheese, even of an inferior 
quality, if thus managed, will become 
much richer, fine, and mellow. They 
must be turned alternately. ; 

The cheese should not be brought from 
the rack to the parlour, but at the mo- 
ment it is wanted, and should be return- 
ed to the rack,as soon as taken from 
table. Be careful to use those that are 
ripe and meilow first. ; 

Cheeses of all sorts, are known to be 
the best which have smooth thin coats, 
and those chosen which are the heaviest ; 
for, although they be of the same size, 
yet they differ materially in that point; 
as all fat, good cheese is the heaviest. - 

The round Dutch cheese, of the best 
quality, and not too salt, which is a com- 
mon failing with them, is not unfre- 
quently used for toasting, and with suc- 
cess, This, and other cheeses, made of 
skim milk, are considered better for that 
purpose, and eat richer and more agree- 
ably to the palate than even the best 
North Wiltshire, indubitably one of the 
richest of English cheeses. The fatty 
richness of this material, constitutes not 
the desired properties for toasting, as the 
inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found 
to be richer, softer in consistence, less _ 
ropy, and superior in flavour, than even 


Stilton. 


Cheeses that become tainted with 
mites, are recommended by a Derby- 
shire lady, well acquainted with the oper- 
ations of the dairy, to be wiped, and 
then pvt into a pot in which mutton has 
been cooked, whilst the water is yet hot, 
and made to boil a few seconds, then to 
be taken out, immediately wiped, dried, 
and put away in a dry place. 

Cuesse, Artifictal.—Take a gallon of 
new milk, two quarts of cream, nutmeg, 
mace, and cinnamon, all well pounded ; 
boil these in milk; then put in eight 
eggs, six or eight Spoonsful of wine vine- 
gar to turn the milk; let it boil till it 
eomes to a tender curd; tie it up in a 
cheese-cloth, and let it hang six er eight 
hours to drain ; then open it, take out the 
spice, sweeten it with sugar and rose 
water; put it into a cullender, iet it 
stand an heur more, then turn it out, 
and serve it up in a dish, with cream 
under it. ke 

Creese Brioche.*—Make a brioche in 
the usual way, and when ready for bak- 
ing, spread it over the board, and strew 
over it some Gruyere cheese, cut into 
dice, inthe proportion of a quarter of a 


| pound of cheese to a pound of brioche 





CHE 


paste. Roll it out as usual, take off 
about an eighth part, and put the largest 
portion into the mould or case, dorez it; 
then take the remainder of the drioche 
and place it on the top, so as to forma 
sort of head to the other; dorez and trim 
it. When it has been in the oven about 
two hours, take it out gently, and if the 
head be not detached from the rest, re- 
move it lightly, lay paper over, and 
replace it in the oven as quickly as you 
can, to finish the baking. 

Cueese, Cake of.*—Take about the 
fourth part of a close, fat Brie cheese, 
pound and rubit through a sieve; mix 
with it a pint and a half of flour; lay it 
on the board, make a hole in the middle, 
into which put three quarters of a pound 
of butter, and work it in well; add to it 
a little Gruyere cheese grated, and six 
eggs. Knead these all together well; 
mould it up, and let it stand for half an 
hour ; then roll it out, and make it into 
a eake of about three inches; mark it 
with a knife on one side in chequers, and 
on the other in rays; dorez, and bake it 
in a moderate oven. 

-Cursuire Cheese, to imitate.—The 
milk being set, and the curd being come, 
do not break it with a dish, as is cus- 
tomary in other cheese, but draw it to- 
gether with your hands to one side of the 
vessel, breaking it gently and regularly; 
for if it be pressed roughly, a great deal 
of the richness of the milk will go into 
the whey. Put the curd into the cheese- 


vat or mote as you gather it, and when | 


it is full, salt it at different times ; press 
it, and turn it often. 

The thickness of these cheeses must 
be about seven or eight inches, and they 
will be fit to cut in about twelve months. 
You must turn and shift them frequently 
upon a shelf, and rub them with a dry 
coarse cloth. At the year’s end, you 
may bore a hole in the middle, and pour 
in a quarter of a pint of sack, then stop 
the hole close with some of the same 
cheese, and set it in a wine cellar for six 
months to mellow; at the expiration of 
which you will find the sack all lost, and 
the hole in a manner closed up. If this 
cheese be properly managed, its flavour 
will be pleasant and grateful, and it will 
eat exceedingly fine andrich, 

CuressE ( Crab).*—Cut some thin slices 
of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double 
Gloucester, &c. and press them well with 
a knife, until you can spread it like but- 
ter. Then mix up with it, mustard, 
common and chili vinegar, cayenne pep- 
per, salt, essence of anchovies, and any 
other fish sauce you think proper. Mix 
all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. 


CueEse Cream.— To three pints of: 


(135 ) 


CHE 


raw cream put a sufficient quantity of 
salt to season it; stir it well; fold a 
cheese-cloth three or four times, and 
lay it at the bottom of a sieve, and pour 
your cream into it. When it hardens, 
cover it with nettlés on a pewter plate. 

CueEse Cream.—Make a pint of good 
milk lukewarm, and stir in a bit of ren- 
net about the size of a pea, previously 
diluted with some of the milk; put it 
over a few hot embers, and cover it with 
fire at the top; when the curd is set, put 
it into a little osier basket, made for the 
purpose, and well drained, turn it into a 
dessert dish; serve with good cream, 
and fine sugar over it. 

CuHeEese Cream.— Put five quarts of 
strippings, that is, the last of the milk, 
into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. 
When the curd is produced, strike it 
down a few times with the skimming- 
dish, to break it. Leave it to stand two 
hours, then spread a cheese cloth on a 
sieve, put the curd on it, and let the 
whey drain; break the curd a little with 
your hand, and put it intoa vat, witha 
two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand 
for twelve hours; take it out, and bind 
a filletround. Turn it from one board 
to another every day, till itis dry ; cover 
with nettles or clean dock leaves, and 
put it to ripen between two pewter- 
plates. If the weather is warm, it will 
be ready in three weeks. 

Cueess Cream.—Put twelve quarts of 
new milk and a quart of cream together, 
with rennet just sufficient to turn it, and 
let the milk and cream be just warm. 
When it has stood till the curd has come; 
lay a cloth in the vat, which must be 
made of a size proportionate to the cheese. 
Cut out the curd with a skimming-dish, 
and put it into the vat till it is full, 
turning the cheese-cloth over it; and as 
the curd settles, Jay moreon, till youhave 
laid on as much as will make one cheese. 
When the whey is drained off, turn the 
cheese into a dry cloth, and then Jay 
upon ita pound weight. At night, turn 
it out into another cloth, and the next 
morning salt it a littie, Then, having 
made a bed of nettles or ash leaves to lay 
it on, cover it with the same, shifting it 
twice a day, for about ten days, when it 
may be brought to table. 

Cueese Cream, a Plain Family Way. 
—Warm three half pints.of cream with 
one half pint of milk, or according to the 
same proportion, and put a little rennet 
to it; keep it covered in a warm place 
till it is curdled; have a proper mould 
with holes, either of china or any other 5 
put the curds into it to drain, about an 
hour, or less: serve with a good plain 
cream, Les pounded sugar over it. 

L 


CHE 


With FW hipt Cream.—P uta good pinch 
of gum-dragon powder into a quart of 
cream; whip it till it is quite thick with 
fine rasped lemon-peel; pour it into a 
cloth-strainer, ora piece of muslin; drain 
it thus in a basket, and serve it the same 
as the first. 

Cuerese Cream Iced.—Boil a pint of 
good cream, then put half a pourd of 
sugar to it, about a dozen of sweet al- 
monds pounded,a little preserved orange- 
flowers, or orange-flower water, and 
rasped lemon-peel; boil together a few 
minutes ; when you take it off the fire, 
add five yolks of eggs beat up, and stir 
it: continually till they are well mixed 
with the cream}; strain it ina sieve, and 
put it into the icing-pot, when it is 
pretty much much iced, work it well to 
put it into cheese-moulds}; ice it again, 
and serve as usual. It is also done with 
coffee and chocolate, in the same manner 
as the ices, only that each is thickened 
with four or five yolks of eggs, as directed 
in the first, and moulded like a cheese, 
which gives it the name. 

CueEse Cream, Iced & la Bourgeoise.* 
—Boil a pint of very good thick cream 
with half a pint of milk, the yolk of an 
egg, three quarters of a pound of sugar ; 
when it has boiled up five or six times, 
take it off the fire, and flavour it with any 
aromatic, either orange-flower, berga- 
mot, or lemon; pour the preparation 
into tin moulds to ice; put these moulds 
into little pails, having first put at the 
bottom of your pails some ice, well 
pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, 
and place ice and saltpetre all round 
your moulds, till it reaches the top of 
the mould. When the cheese is iced, 
and you are ready to serve it, dip your 
moulds in warm water to loosen the 
cheese from the moulds; then turn your 
cheeses into a dish. They should be 
eaten the moment they are served. 

CuHeese Cream, and Marmalade. — 
Boil a pint of cream; mix with it a few 
spoonsful of any kind of marmalade you 
please, and a little dried preserved 
iemon-peel, chopped fine; when it is 
but just milk-warm, put some rennet to 
it, and serve it with pounded sugar 
over it. 


Cueese Cream @ la Princesse.*—Boil : 


a pint of cream with a pint of milk, two 
grains of salt, a little grated lemon-peel, 
a little coriander, a little cinnamon, three 
ounces of sugar; let the whole boil until 
reduced to half, then take it off the fire; 
and when it is lukewarm, throw into it 
a piece of rennet (a little larger than a 
pea), mixed with a spoonful of water ; 


pass the cream through a sieve, and then | 


put it over some warm ashes; when the 


( 136. ) 


CHE 


curd is produced, put it into a little osier 
basket to drain, and when it has taken 
the form of a cheese, turn it into a dish... 
Cueese Cream /Whipped.* — Chop 
very fine a piece of green lemon-peel, 
and put it into an earthen pan with a 
pint.and a half of good thick cream, and 
a piece of gum-drayon, about the size of 
a pea, powdered; whip your cream, and 
as the whip rises, take it off with the 
skimmer, and put it in an osier basket; 
if the basket is not very close, you must 
put a piece of muslin in it; when the 
cream is all whipped, and it is sufficiently 
drained, serve it on a dish with powdered 
sugar over it. Nae 
CueEse Curd Florentine.—Break to 
pieces two pounds of cheese-curd, take 
a pound of blanched almonds finely 
pounded, with a little rose water, half 
a pound of currants, clean washed and 
picked, some stewed spinach, cut small ; 
sweeten it with some sugar; mix it all 
well together; lay a pntf-paste in the 
dish, put in the ingredients, cover it with 
a thin crust rolled and laid across; bake 
it in a moderate oven: it takes half an 
hour; the top crust may be cut any 
shape. Fey 
Cueese Curd Pudding. — Take the 
curd from a gallon of milk, turned with 
rennet; drain off the milk completely, 
and beat it in a mortar, with half a 
pound of fresh butter; strain to this the 
yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, 
well beaten, add two Naples biscuits, 
or half a small roll grated, and sweeten 
the whole ; put it into buttered tins, and 
bake in a moderate oven; when done, 
turn them irto a dish, and garnish with 
citron, candied orange-peel, and blamch- 
ed almonds, cut in slips ; sprinkle powder 
sugar over, and serve them with melted 
butter and a little sack. 
Cueese Entrées. — Parmesan cheese 
should be made use of for entrées, and it 
should be grated, and the meat or fish 
with which it is served should be dressed 
a la braise, or en ragoitt ; very little salt 
must he used in the sauce or meat, as 
Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into 
the bottom of the dish in which you are 
going to serve your meat, some of the 
sauce you intend to use with your meat, 
then strew with grated cheese; place 
your meat upon this, pour over the ree 
mainder of your sauce, and cover the | 
whole with Parmesan. Then put it in 
an oven, or under a baking pan to brown, 
and serve it with thick sauce. 
Cauliflowers and Spanish cardoons 
may be served in the same manner for 
entremets. Fahy : 
CuereEse, Fondue of.—Make a sort of 
pap with half a pint of cream, or good 


CHE 


milk and potatoe flour; add a little salt. 
When the pap is boiled enough, put to it 
four yolks of eggs, half a pound of grated 


Gruyere or Parmesan cheese ; and lastly, | 


four whites of eggs, whipped till en neige. 
Stir the whole well together. Next, 
pour the pap intoa mould, place it over 
a stove covered with a lid, and fire on 
the top. It will be done enough in ten 
minutes, when it should be quickly 
served and eaten. 

Curese, Fresh.—Take two quarts of 
raw cream, sweeten it with sugar; boil 
it, then put in some damask-rose-water, 
keep it stirring, that it may not burn; 
when it is thickened and turned, take it 
off the fire : wash the strainer and cheese- 
vat with rose-water; then roll your curd 
backwards and forwards in the strainer 
to drain the whey from it, then put the 
curd, with a spoon, into the vat; as soon 
as itis cold, slip it into the cheese-dish 
with some of the whey, and serve it up. 

Cueese Fritiers.*—Put some milk, 
butter, mild Brie or Gruyere cheese into 
a saucepan; add to these ingredients 
flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar; 
make it into a paste, of which form your 
fritters ; fry them of a nice colour, and 
serve them sprinkled with sugar. A 
small quantity of orange-flowers may be 
added. 

Cuetse (Parmesan) Fondus.*—Put 
a pound of butter, and half a pound of 
potatoe flour; stir them together well ; 
add to them five or six glasses of good 
cream nearly boiling,a pound of Par- 
mesan cheese grated, half a pound of 
Gruyere cheese grated, a small spoonful 
of megnonette, and a spoonful ‘of powder 
sugar. Set it ever a moderate fire, stir- 
ring it constantly; add the fifteen yolks, 
and a large plateful of whipped cream, 
well drained, then the whites whipped 
firm; pour this preparation into small 
Paper cases as quickly as possible, and 
bake them for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Crexseas Iced Butter.—Boil for a few 
tae a pint of cream, with some 
rasped lemon-peel, and a good spoonful 


of orange fluwer-water; when taken off 


the fire, add a dozen yolks of eggs well 
beat up, and mix together without boil- 
ing; silt through a sieve, and put into 
an icing pot to freeze, working it the 
same as ices ; it must be iced in sucha 
manner that you may take it with a 
spoon to serve, like pats of butter 
stamped, and bits of clear ice between to 
appear like crystals. ; 
Catcce Iced a la Chantilly.—tt is pre- 


pared the same as Cream Cheese Iced, 


and put to icein moulds ; beat up a pint 
of cream to a froth, add rasped lemon- 


( 137 ) 


CHE 


peel, a pu of pounded sugar, and a 
spoonful of orange-flower water; serve 
the froth upon the cheese, raised as high 
as possible ; you may, if you choose, ice 
the froth a little. 

CueeseE, (Parmesan) Ice Cream.—Take 
six eggs, halfa pint of syrup, and a pint 
of cream ; put them into astewpan, and 
boil them until they begin to thicken; 
then rasp three ounces of Parmesan 
cheese, mix the whole well together, and 
pass it through asieve; then freeze it 
according te custom. 

Cueese, Iced, ofany sortof Marma.ade. 
—They are made in the same manner as 
Cream Cheese Iced; when the cream 
and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient 
quantity of what marmalade you please, 
to give 1t a proper taste of the fruit de- 
sired. 

Cueese, Marigold.—Pick the freshest 
and best coloured leaves you can, pound 
them in a mortar, and strain out the 
juice. Put this into milk at the same 
time with the rennet. The milk being 
set, and the curd produced, break it 
as gently and as equally as you possibly 
can, put it into the cheese vat ; and press 
it with a gentle weight, there being such 
a number of holes in the bottom part of 
the vat, as will let the whey easily out, 
or else let there be a spout to carry off 
the whey, though holes will be the best. 
They must be finished the same as all 
other cheeses. 

CHEESE, Cream, a la Montmorency.*#— 
Boil a pint of cream with two ounces of 
sugar ; when it boils, take it off the fire, 
and let it cool ; when cool, put in half a 
tea spoonful of orange-flower water. 
Whip the cream, and as the cream 
thickens take it off with a skimmer, and 
put it on a basket (with a fine cloth laid 
Over it); continue to whip until there is 
no longer any cream remaining ; let it 
drain, and serve it on a plate. 

CHEESE en Netge.—Put into an earthen 
pan three half pints of very thick cream, 
about the size of a large pea of gum 
adraganth (in powder), and a little 
grated young lemon-peel; whip the 
cream well,and as the froth thickens, 
take it off with a skimmer, and put. it 
in a small osier cheese-basket. If the 
basket is not closely made, put in the 
bottom of it a bit of muslin, or fine linen. 
When the cream is all whipped and 
skimmed, let the cheese drain; turn it 
over into a deep dish for table; sugar it, 
and serve. ; 

Curese Paste.—Make a paste, with 
a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, 
three or four eggs;® (both yolks and 
whites) and some good cream ; you must 


4 


CHE, 


judge of the quantity of flour, according. 
to the quantity of cheese, and the con- 
sistence you would have the paste. 

Currse_ Plombiére.*—Take a quarter 
of apound of sweet, and. four bitter al- 
monds, beat them to a fine paste, which 
put into a pint of boiling cream, having 
previously infused in it two pinches of 
crisped orange-flowers ; pour this cream 
on nine yolks of eggs, and three quar- 
ters of a pound of powder sugar; place 
it over a gentle fire, stirring it con- 
Btantly until it begins to thicken, and 
taking great care not to let it boil ; pass 
it through a bolting, and when cold put 
it ina sabotiere, and ice it; when about 
half set, add a small Chantilly cheese, 
then finish icing it, and when wanted 
for table, lay about a dezen orange or 
ivy leaves on a dish, lay the cheese on 
them like a rock, drop apricot mar- 
malade over it, here and there, and 
serve it. 

Cueese Potted.—Beat three pounds of 
the best Cheshire cheese in a mortar, 
with half a pound of best butter, a large 
glass of sack, near halfan ounce of mace 
beaten and sifted; mix it well, pot it; 
pour over it clarified butter. 

Cuersr, Potted.—Add to a pound of 
grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese 
three ounces of cold fresh butter, a little 
sifted mace, and a tea spoonful of mus- 
tard. Mix al! well ina marble mortar, 
put it into small pots, cover it with clari- 
fied butter, and set the pots in a cold 
dry place. 

Cueess Pounded.—Take a pound of 
good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North 
Wiltshire cheese, cut it into thin bits; 
if the cheese is dry, add to it three 
ounces of fresh butter ; if it is tolerably 
moist, two ounces cf butter will be sufh- 
cient; pound and rub them well together 
in a mortar till it ts quite smooth. 
Spread on bread, it makes an excellent 
Juncheon or supper. You may, if you 
please, pound with it curry powder, 
ground spice, black pepper, cayenne, 
and a little made mustard; and moisten 
with a glass of sherry. If pressed down 

ard in a jar, and covered with clarified 
butter, it will keep for several days in 
cool weather. 

_ Currse to Preserve Sound.—Wash it 
in warm whey, wipe it once a month, and 
keep it on arack. If you wish it to 
ripen, put it into a damp cellar, which 
wil! bring it forward. When a whole 
cheese is cut, the larger quantity should 
be spread inside with butter, and the 
outside should be wiped to preserve it. 
To keep that which is in daily use 
moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out 


( 158 ) 


CHE 


from cold water, ard wrapped round the: 
cheese whey carried from table. = 
CHEESE Pecia «tent in a mortar, half 
a pint of cheese curd (strained from the 
whey) very fine, with a spoonful and a 
half of flour, three eggs, leaving out two 
whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, 
a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to 
make it rathersweet. Lay a little of 
this paste in very smali round cakes, on. 
atin plate. Ifthe oven is hot, a quarter 
of an hour will be sufficient to bake them : 
serve them with pudding sauce. ie 
CHEESE Roasted, (to come up after 
Dinner). — Grate three ounces of fat 
Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks. 
of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, 
and three ounces of butter; beat the 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert 
spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and. 
pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into 
proper pieces; lay the paste, as above, 
thick upon them, put them into a Dutch 
oven covered with a dish, till hot through, 
remove the dish, and let the cheese. 
brown alittle. Serve as hot as possible. 
Cueese, Sage. — Bruise the tops of. 
young red sage in a mortar, with some 
leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice 5 
mix it with the rennet in the milk, more 
or less, according as you like fur colour. 
and taste. When the curd is come, 
break it gently, and put it in with the 
skimmer, till it is pressed two inches. 
above one vat. Press it eight or ten 
hours. Salt it, and turn every day. 
CueEse, Sage, with Figures.—Provide 
two cheese-vats of the same size, and set 
the milk to turn in two vessels; one part: 
with rennet alone, and the other part 
with rennet and sage juice. These must. 
be made aé you would make two distinct 
cheeses, and put into the presses at the 
same time. When both these cheeses have 
stood in the presses for half an hour, 
take them out, and cut some square 
pieces, or Jong slips out of ‘the plain 
cheese, and lay them by on a plate; then , 
cut the same number of pieces out of the 
sage cheese, of the same figure and size, . 
and immediately put the pieces of the 
sage cheese into the places that you cut 
in the plain cheese, and the pieces that 
you took out of the plain cheese into she 
places you cut in the sage cheese. e 
pieces should be cut out by a tin-plate, 
made into figures of several shapes, by. 
which the pieces can be cut out so 
exactly, that they will fit without any 
trouble. When you have done this, put. 
the cheeses in the press again, and finish 
like other cheeses. The greatest care, 
must be taken that the curd is very 
equally broken, and that both cheeses 





CHE: 


are pressed as equally as possible before 
the figures are cut out, or else, when they 
come to be pressed for the last time, the 
figures will press unequally, and_ lose 
their shapes. The cheeses should not 
be made above two inches thick; if they 
are thicker it will be more difhicult to 
make the figures regular. After they are 
made, they must be frequently shifted 
and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed 
with a coarse cloth. They will be fit to 
cut in about eight months. 

CuEese Soufié.— Take three ounces 
of flour anu two cf butter, put them ina 
stewpan with one egg, mix them toge- 
ther with nearly a pint of milk, and set 
it on the fire till it begins to boil ; if too 
thick add a little more milk; then break 
in the yolks of five eggs, and a gill of 
thick cream; when theseare well mixed, 
stir in gently about twoounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and avery little pepper 
and salt; beat the whites of the eggs, 
with the addition of three, and finish as 
for souflés. When this light batter is 
put in paper cases, it is called fondues au 
fromage. 

CHEESE Soup.*—Take a soup dish that 
will bear the fire, and spread over the bot- 
tom of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with 
pieces of fresh butter strewed about it ; 
cover this with thin slices of bread, and 
lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately, 
until you have enough, taking care to 
finish with the cheese and butter; 
moisten these layers with stock, and let 
them simmer until it is burnt to the 
bottom, and the liquor is evaporated. 
When about to send it to table, add more 
stock, with a little pepper, and let the 
potage be rather thick than otherwise. _ 

CHEESE Soup en maigre, and en graus.* 
—If you wish to make it en mazgre, pre- 
pare some Soup Maigre, taking care that 
there is a larger proportion of cabbage 
in your soup than of any other vegetable; 
when it is made and strained through a 
sieve, season it with a little salt; take 
the dish in which you mean to serve it, 
and place it before the fire, then take 
half, or three quarters of a pound (accor- 
ding tothe quantity of soup you intend 
making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one 
half of it, and cut the other half into 
small slices, put a little of the grated 
cheese with some smal} pieces of butter 
into the bottom of your dish, cover it 
with some small slices of bread, then put 
a layer of the sliced cheese, then a layer 
of sliced bread covered with grated 
cheese, then bread and small pieces of 
butter, and so continue till your dish is 
filled ; moisten the whole with some of 
your soup, then let it soak over a chafing 
dish until all the soup is absorbed; then 


( 189 ) 


CHE 


dilute it with’ the rest of your soup, and 
season with pepper. This cheese seup 
should be served rather thick. To make 
Cheese Soup en gras, instead of making 
use of soup-maigre, it should be made 
with very rich cabbage soup, not skim- 
med, and no butter must be used. 

Cueese Soup, Gras ou Maigre.—Take 
about half a pound of bread crumbs, sift 
them in a cullender with about a quarter 
of a pound of Gruyere cheese, or Parme- 
san; simmer this together in a stewpan 
with some good broth (either Gras or 
Maigre), until the bread and cheese are 
well stewed ; make a Zaisor in another 
pan, with the yolks of three or four eggs, 
and the same number of spoonsful of 
broth ; when ready toserve, mix this last 
with the first, without boiling. This 
soup must not be very clear nor thick; it 
must be made with broth without salt, 
as the cheese may salt it sufficientiy. 

Cueese Stewed.—Cut small into a 
stewpan,Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, 
a quarter of a pound ofeach; then adda 
gill of Lisbon wine, a table spoonful of 
water, and (if approved) a teaspoonful of 
mustard. Mix them over a fire till the 
cheese is dissolved; then have ready a 
cheese-plate, with a lighted lamp be- 
neath, put the mixture in, and serve it 
up directly. Send with it some fresh 
toasted bread ina toast-rack. 

Cueese Stilion.— Take the night’s 

cream, and put it into the morning’s new 
milk, with the rennet; when the curd is 
produced it must not be broken as is done 
with other cheeses, but take it out with 
a soil dish altogether, and place it in the 
sieve to drain gradually, and as it drains, 
keep gradually pressing it till it becomes 
firm and dry; then place it in a wooden 
hoop, and afterwards keep it dry on 
boards, turning it frequently, with cloth 
binders round it, which are to he tight- 
ened as occasion requires. In some 
dairies the cheese, after being taken out 
of the hoop, is bound tight round with a 
cloth, this cloth should be changed daily, 
until the cheese becomes firm enough to 
support itself; after the cloth is taken off, 
it must be rubbed every day all over, for 
two or three months, with a brush, and 
if the weather is damp or moist, twice 
a day 3 and even before the cloth is taken 
off, the top and bottom must be well 
rubbed every day. 
_ Cueese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, 
made mustard, and salt, into a mass; 
spread it on fresh-made thin toast, and 
ure or scrape Gloucester cheese upon 
them. 

Curese Toasted, or an English Rabbit. 
—Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak 
it in red wine, put it before the fire; cut 


CHE 


some cheese in very thin slices, and rub 
some butter over the bottom of a plate, 
lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or 
three spoonsful of white wine, and a little 
mustard ; cover it with another plate, and 
set iton a chafing-dish of coals two or 
three minutes, then stir it till it is well 
mixed; when it is mixed enough, lay it 
upon the bread, and brown it with a sa- 
lamander. 

CHEESE Toasted, or a Scotch Rabbit.— 
Toast a slice of bread on both sides, of a 
fine light brown colour, butter it, toast a 
slice of cheese on buth sides, and serve 
it on the bread. 

CuersE Toasted, ora Welch Rabbit. 
—Take a slice of bread and toast it on 
both sides ; toast a slice of cheese on one 
side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot 
salamander brown it, and rub some mus- 
tard over it. 

CHEESECAKES. *—Put a spoonful of 
rennet into a quart of milk; when turned, 
drain the curd through a coarse sieve, 
gently break the curd, and rub in a quar- 
ter ofa pound of butter, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples 
biscuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, 
and the white of one, half an ounce of 
almonds, half bitter and half sweet, well 
beaten in a mortar, with two spoonsful of 
rose water, four ounces of currants ; put 
in the curd, and mix all together. 

‘CHEESECAKES.*—One quart of milk, 
and three dessert spoonsful of rice-flour, 
six eggs, leave out three of the whites, 
and currants to your taste. 

CHEESECAKEs.—Put some curd from 
the dairy into the mortar, with a bit of 
fresh butter, a little sait, the yolks of 


three eggs, and the white of one; rasp | 
the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and 


put this also into the mortar; add four 
macaroons, and a bit of sugar; pound | 
the whole together, and when very fine, | 
take it out of the mortar; butter any) 
quantity of tartlet moulds, according to. 
your company, spread some puff-paste 
over the dresser, cut with around cutter, | 
as many pieces as you have moulds, and’ 
put a spoonful of the preparation to each, 
bake next in a pretty hot oven, and, 
serve up very hot with powdered sugar, 
Sometimes you may glaze them with the 
- salamander. | 
CHEESECAKES.*—Take one gallon of 
milk and turnit, but do not let the curd) 
be too hard; put it in a sieve to drain, 
mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh but-) 
ter, halfa pint of cream, a quarter ofa 
pound of sugar, six eggs, leave out three 
of the whites, and one nutmeg; make a 
puff paste and putin the mixture. You 
may add currants if you please. 
CHEESECAKES.—Mix the curd of three 


(140) 


CHE 


quarts of milk, a pound of currants, 
twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, @ quarter 
of an ounceof cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, 
the peel of one lemon chopped so fine 
that’ it becomes a paste, the yolks of 
eight, and whites of six eggs, a pint of 
scalded cream, and a glass of brandy; 
put a light thin puff paste in the patty- 
pans, and three parts fill them. “ 
CHEESECAKES.—Add three quarts of 
new milk to a gill of rennet, let it stand 
in a warm place, and when thoroughly” 
set, drain it well, and mix into it with 
the hand half a pound of fresh butter, 
sweeten according to your taste with 
pounded sugar, add a few currants wash- 
ed and picked, a little citron, candied 
orange and lemon-peels cut into small 
slices, and one ounce of sweet almonds” 
pounded fine. Beat up with the mixture 
three eggs, line the pans with puff 
paste, fill them with the preparation, 
and bake them in a brisk oven. 
CuHEESECAKES.—A pint of cream, half 
a pound of butter, six eggs, two spoons- 
ful of grated bread, as much cinnamon 
and mace pounded as will lay upon a 
shilling, three spoonsful of sugar, five 
of currants, nearly two of brandy; beat - 
the eggs well, then mix all together in a 
deep pewter dish, set it on a stove, stir 
it one way, till it becomes a soft curd; 
when cold, put it into tins with puff- 
paste. ; 
CHEESECAKES, — Boil two quarts of 
cream, beat up the yolks of four eggs, 
and put them to the cream before you 
set if on the fire, let it boil till it comes 
to a curd; blanch some almonds, and 
pound them with orange-flower water, 
and- put them into the cream, adding 
some Naples biscuits and green citron, 
shred small; sweeten with sugar that 
has musk plums ground in it, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. 
CHEESECAKES, Common.— Beat eight 
eggs well, whilea quart of milk is on the 
fire, and when it boils, put in the eggs, 
and stir them till they come to a curd; 
then pour it out, and when it is cold, put 
in a,little salt, two spoonsful of rose- 
water, and three quarters of a pound of 
currants well washed; put it into puff- 
paste, and bake it. If you use tin patties 
to bake in, butter them, or you will not 
be able to take them out; but if you 
bake them in glass or china, only an 
upper crust will be necessary, as you 
will not want to take them out when you 
send them to table. ve 
CHEESECAKES, Court.—Boil a bit of 
butter in a little water and a little salt ; 
thicken it with as much flour as it will 
take, Stirring it on the fire constantly, 
until it becomes quite a paste ; then mix 





CHE 


the eggs with it, one by one, to make it 
almost as liquid as a thick batter; and 
mix some good cream cheese with it; 
bake it in good puff-paste, coloured with 
ae ofeggs. Serve it up either hot or 
cold. 

CHEESECAKES, Curd.—Beat halfa pint 
of good curds with four eggs, three 
spoonsful of rich cream, half a nutmeg 
grated, and a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or 
orange-water; put to them a quarter of 
a pound of sugar and half a pound of cur- 
rants well washed and dried before the 
fire. Mix all well together, put a good 
crust into patty-pans, and bake them 
gently. : 

Creesecakes, Curd.—Beat half a pint 
of good curd with four eggs, four spoons- 
ful of cream, some nutmeg, a little 
brandy, half a pound of currants; sugar 
to the taste. 

Cuersecakes de St. Denis.— Mix a 
spoonful offlour with a fresh cream cheese 
well-drained, commonly called curds, a 
little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and 
finish the same as for Court Cheese- 
cakes. 

CuHEEsecaxkes, Fine.—Warm a pint of 
cream, add toit five quarts of milk, warm 
from the cew, with some rennet; give it 
astir about, and when the curd is come, 
put it into a linen cloth or bag; drain it 
well away from the whey, but do not 
squeeze it too much, and put it into a mor- 
tar, and break the curd as fine as butter. 
Add to the curd half a pound of sweet al- 
monds, blanched, and beaten extremely 
fine, and half a pound of macaroons or 
Naples biscuits, beaten very fine; then 
put the yolks of nine eggs beaten, a nut- 
meg grated, two perfumed plums dis- 
solved in rose or orange-flower water, 
and half a pound of fine sugar; mix all 
well together; melt a pound and a quar- 
ter of butter, and stir it wellin. Weta 

ound of fine flour with cold water, roll 
it out, put into it, by degrees, a pound of 
fresh butter, and shake a liitie flour on 
each coat as itisrolled. The perfumed 
plums miay be omitted or not, according 
to your taste. 

CHEESECAKES, French.—Take some of 
the petits chouw paste, made with water 5 
mix with it some fromage a@ la cream 
that has been curdled culd, and then 
proceed in the usual way. 

Cueesecakes, Mrs. Harrison’s.—For 
the paste, use a quart of fine flour, or 
more, a pound of butter rubbed into the 
flour, with a quarter of a pound of sugar 
beat fine, two spoonsful of orange-flower 
water; make it into a paste, and lay itin 
patty-pans for the curd; take the yolks 
of twelve eggs, beat ina pint of very thick 
cream; when the cream boils up, put in 


( 141 ) 


CHE 


the eggs; then takeit off, and put itina 
cloth over a cullender; whey some new 
milk with rennet, tor the other curd ; 

when you temper them together, take a 
pound of currants, three qwarters of a 
pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, 
a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs, four 
ae of rose-water, and bake them 
quick. 

Cueesecakes, (Rich Paste for).—Dry 
a pound of the finest flour, mix with it 
three ounces of refined sugar, then wash 
half a pound of butter with your hand till 
it come to froth; put the flour into it by 
degrees, and work into it, well beaten 
and strained, the yolks of three and 
whites of two eggs. If too limber, put 
some flour and sugar, to make it fit to 
roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill; 
a little more than fifteen minutes will 
bake them. Against they come out, 
have ready some refined sugar, beat up 
with the white of an egg, as thick as you 
can ; ice them all over, set them in the 
oven to harden, and serve cold. Use 
fresh butter. Salt butter will make a 
very fine flaky crust; but if for mince- 
pies, or any sweet things, should be 
washed. 

CHERRIES, au Beurre a ? Allemande. 
—Pull the stalks from two pounds of 
black-heart cherries; try a large quan- 
tity of bread cut into dice, in a quarter 
of a pound of butter; when the bread is 
well coloured, take it out with askim- 
mer, and keep it hot; put the cherries 
into the remaining butter, with a glass 
of red wine and some sugar, and stew 
the cherries well through. Take them 
out also with a skimmer, and place them 
in a dish, put the fried bread into the 
cherry juice, turn them over in it, and 
put it over the cherries. Serve very hot. 

CHERRIES, Bottled.* — Gather your 
fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put 
it into bottles, fill them up as close as 
you can, and seal the corks. Place the 
bottles in the dazn-marze, and as soon as 
the water begins to boil, lessen the fire, 
and a quarter of an hour after, take the 
water out of the dain-marie. 

Cueraies 2n Brandy.* — Choose the 
finest and ripest cherries, leave on half 
the stalks, and put them into very co!d 
water. In about half an hour take them 
out, and drain them ona sieve; weigh 
them, and to every pound of fruit, allow 
a quarter of a pound of sugar; when you 
have clarified and boiled it to grand perlé, 
put in the fruit, boil them up two or 
three times, stirring them gently with a 
skimmer ; then take them from the fire 
carefully, and put the ‘cherries into 
bottles or glass jars; when filled, add to 
each twelve cloves and half an ounce of 


CHE 


cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put to 
the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy 
(in the proportion ofa pint and a half 
to a pound of fruit); mix them together 
well, and pour them on the cherries. In 
two months time taste them, and if suf- 
ficiently flavoured, take out the cloves 
and cinnamon. Cover the jars or bottles 
close. 

Caerries in Brandy.—Bruise a few 
cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, 
so that you may obtain from them halfa 
pint of clear juice, which mix with a 
pint of brandy and rather more than a 
pound of sugar, and dissolve it; put 
some fine cherries into bottles, cut the 
tails about half away, and peur on them 
the juice, brandy, &c., which must cover 
the fruit. The cherries preserved in 
this way may be glazed with caramel, 
sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve 
them in a dessert. 

Cuernry Brandy (Black).—Pick and 
bruise eight pounds of black maroons, 
and the same quantity of smal! black 
cherries; let them stand for two months 
in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two 
pounds of crushed sugar, and a quart of 
sack well stirred together, At the end 
of that time it may be drawn off and 
bottled. 

Another way.*—Choose fine sound mo- 
rella cherries, and having taken off the 
stalks, place them in layers in glass Jars ; 
strew powder-sugar between each layer, 
and cover them with brandy. As soon 
as the cherries have imbibed the brandy, 
pour in more, so as to keep them con- 
stantly covered, . 

Cuerry Cakes.—Cut a pound of tart 
paste in half, and roll it outthin; chop 
preserved cherries into small pieces, and 
drop them on the paste ; egg them round 
carefully, and turn the paste over them, 
and press them together gently. Then 
witha gigging-iron, cutit into halfcircles; 
prick and wash them over with egg. 
Bake them on a well-buttered tin, in 
a quick oven. 

CHERRIES (to cundy).—The fruit must 
be gathered before it is ripe; prick and 
stone them ; boil clarified sugar, and pour 
it over them. 

‘CuHerpries en Chemises.*—Choose some 
large ripe cherries, cut the stalks half 
off, beat up the white of an egg to a 
snow, and dip each cherry in it, and then 
roll it in finesifted sugar ; then lay them, 
without touching each other, on a sheet 
of paper, and place them in astove ona 
sieve till wanted. 

Currants in bunches, strawberries, 
and grapes may be done in the same 
manner. 

CuerrizEs, Coated.—Take half a dozen 


( 142 ) 


CHE 


cherries that have been preserved in li- 
quiets oneof them must have the stalk on; 
rain them, cut them in half, and when 
the stone is taken out, place them round 
the one with the tail (which must not be 
cut) so as toform one large cherry ; cover 
it with fine powder-sugar, and dry it ina 
Stove or oven. ! 
Cuerries (Compote of ).*—Cut off the 
stalks of cherries about half-way, and 
throw them into cold water, and when 
the water is well drained from them, put 
them into clarified sugar boiled to grand 
perlé ; let them boil up over a quick fire 
five or six times; then take the preserv- 
ing-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and 
skim. When cool, put them into com- 
potiers. ; Veipso 
Another way.*—Cut off the ends of the 
stalks, and put cherries into a saucepan, 
with halfa glass of water and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar; set them upon the 
fire, and let them boil up two or three 
times; place them on a dessert plate 
with the stalks upward; pour the syrup 
over, and serve them cold. You may 
ae raspberries or lemon-peel, if agree= 
able. it 

CHERRIES (Conserve of).* —Stone a 
pound of cherries,take the seeds from two 
ounces of red currants, and place them 
in a silver vessel over a moderate fire, 
until the fruit is reduced to a quarter. 
Boil a pound anda half of sugar to the 
degree grand cassé, throw the fruit into 
it, and stir them well together till it begins 
to puffup; you may then put the conserve 
in paper cases. 

Cuerry Cordial.—Place layers of black 
cherries and powder-sugar alternately in 
a stone jar thatis broader at bottom than 
at top, until quite full, then pour on 
them spirits of wine, in the proportion 
of halfa pint to two gallons; stop it as 
close as possible, and bury it for six 
months, when it may be strained and 
bottled. Keep it tightly corked. 

Cuerry Custard.*—Stone and tail two 
pounds of ripe cherries, and put them 
into a preserving-pan with half a pound 
of powder-sugar, and when nearly done, 
drain the cherries well, strain the syrup, 
and boil it until it begins to stick to the 
fingers; then pour to ita fourth part of 
the cherries with the juice which drained 
from them, and put them on the fire till 
the nappe forms. The custard being 
prepared as usual (see Apple Custard), 
pour in the drained cherries; putitina 
brisk oven for three quarters of an hour 3 
then dorez and glaze it, and when ready 
for table, mask it with the remaining 
cherries, and pour the syrup over the 


41 whole. 


CHERRIES (Dried), — Arrange some 








CHE 


sound ripe cherries, with their stalks 
on, upon little hurdles, made for the pur- 
pose. Take care not to place one upon 
another, and put them in a cool oven, 
where they must remain till the oven is 
cold; turn the cherries, and put them 
again into a cool oven (just after the 
bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. 
When cold, tie them up in little bunches, 
and keep them in a dry place. 

Second way. — Put a pound of pow- 
dered-sugar, a very little water, and five 
pounds of morella cherries (with the 
stones taken out) into a saucepan, and 
make them scalding hot, when the cher- 
ries must be taken out and dried ina 
cloth ; then return them to the pan, and 
heat them as before; dry again, and re- 
peat the process twice more; take them 
out for the last time, and dry them in a 
cool oven, laid singly. When dry, dip 
them into cold water, and dry them in a 
cloth. They must be kept free from 
damp. | j 

Cuerrizs, the French way.—Hang 
morella cherries bythe stalks, singly, 
in the sun to dry, in a place free from 
dust ; when quite dry, cutthem from the 
stalks, and place them, one by one, in 
glasses, cover them with powder-sugar, 
and fill them up with white wine. Set 
them in a stove to swell, and then they 
are fit for use. 

Cuerry Fritters.*—Cut some large 
sheets of wafers into pieces large enough 
to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain 
the latter on a sieve, and then wrap 
them, one by one, in the wafer, one piece 
at the top and the other at the bottom; 
having slightly wetted the wafers, press 
the edges together, lay them on a sieve, 
without touching each other, and leave 
them to dry. Make a light batter, in 
which puta little brandy, Madeira, and 
melted butter ; dip the cherries in this, 
drain, and fry them to anice colour ina 
moderately hot pan; then drain them 
again; sprinkle fine sugar over, and 
serve them. 

"Cuerny Fritters, &@ la Dauphine.*— 
Pick three quarters of a pound of fine 
cherries, and boil them five or six times 
with aquarter of a pound of powder- 
sugar ; take out the cherries, drain them, 
and boil the sugar to du nappe ; then put 
in the cherries again, and leave them to 


cool. Inthe mean while roll out a pound ° 


of brioche paste ; make your fritters as 
directed (see Fritters @ la Dauphine), 
and put five or six cherries in each. Fry 
them of ented colour; glaze, and serve 
them quickly. 

eteney Gitean, a la Payisienne.*¥— 
Take the stones and stalks from a pound 
anda half of sweet cherries, and having 


( 143 ) 


CHE 


mixed them with a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and the same of powder-svgar, 
finish the Gdteau as directed (see Gateauw 
Parisienne of Apples). 

To make this Gdteau of currants, the 
same quantity of fruit is necessary; the 
seeds of the latter must be removed, 

Cuerry J/ce.*—Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set them on the fire with a 
little water, and half a pound of sugar. 
When they have boiled, pass ‘them 
through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. 
Pound a handful of the kernels, put them 
in a basin with the juice of two lemons, 
Add to the cherries a pound of sugar az 
petit lissé, and strain on them the lemon- 
juice and kernels ; mix the whole to- 
gether, and put it a _ sabotiére, with 
pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, then place 
it in glasses. 

Cuerry Ice Cream.— Take half a 
pound of preserved cherries, pound them, 
stones and all; put them into a basin, 
with one gill of syrup, the juice of a 
lemon, and a pint of cream, pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it according 
to custom. 

CHERRY Jam.— Having stoned and 
boiled three pounds of fine cherries, 
bruise them, and let the juice run from 
them; then boil together half a pound 
of red currant juice, and half a pound of 
loaf sugar, put the cherries into these 
whilst they are boiling, and strew on 
them three quarters of a pound of sifted 
sugar. Boil all together very fast for 
half an heur, and then put it into pots. 
When cold put on brandy papers. 

Cuerry Jelly.*—Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of fine clear ripe 
cherries ; mix them with a quarter of a 
pound of red currants, from which the 
seeds have been extracted; express the 
juice from these fruits, filter and mix it 
with three quarters of a pound of clari 
fied sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. 
Finish the same as Barberry jelly. 

Cuerry Jelly.— Having taken the 
stalks and stones from two pounds of 
dark-red fleshy cherries, put them ina 
basin; pound the kernels; and squeeze 
the juice of four lemons through a tame 
my. Mash the cherries with a wooden 
spoon, putting in first halfa pot of cur- 
rant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly, 
the lemon juice; mix these together 
well; then having boiled and skimmed 
a pint of thick clarified sugar and isin- 
glass, put the cherries into a jelly bag, 
pour the sugar, &c. over them; run it 
through till quite clear. If not suffici- 
ently sweet, add more sugar, if the con- 
trary, add more lemon juice. Wet the 


CHE 


mould, set it in ice, and fillit with the jel- 
ly; do not turn it out ull the last minute. 
CHERRIES in Jelly.—Slit halfa pound 
of green gooseberries in the side, that 
part of their juice may run out; put 
them into pots witha little water in each; 
cover the pots very close, and put them 
in a saucepan of water over the fire, till 
the gooseberries are quite clear; stonea 
pound of cherries, and beat a pound of 
double-refined sugar, strew some of it in 
a basin, and put on it a layer of cherries, 
cover them with sugar; add five or six 
spoonsful of the gooseberry liquor, put 
them on the fire, and let them boil gently 
till the sugar is melted, then they may 
boil fast; skim it well. As soon as it 
jellies in the spoon itis done enough. 

Cuerries (to keep).—Cut the stalks 
earefully from sound and perfectly dry 
cherries, and put them into clean and 
dry bottles; when full, cork them tight, 
and resin or seal them. Bury them in 
the ground with the corks downwards. 

Cuerry Marmalade.* —Choose the 
ripest, largest, best red coloured cher- 
ries, you can meet with, and take of them 
double the weight of the sugar you intend 
to use; stone and tail; and then put 
them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring 
them till reduced to half. Clarify and 
boil your sugar to petzt cassé, then add 
the fruit to it, and stir it until you can 
see the bottom of the pan; the marma- 
lade is then sufficiently done, and may 
be put into pots. 

~ Crerry Marmalade. * — Boil two 
pounds of sugar, with two glasses of 
water, skim it well, until, on shaking the 
skimmer, after dipping it in the sugar, 
the latter drops from it like icicles; then 
you may put in four pounds of cherries, 
picked and stoned; boil them, and when 
the marmalade flows readily, take it from 
the fire, and put it into pots. 

Cuerry Marchpane.* — Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a pound of cherries; pound 
the almonds to a paste, and mix it with 
the sugar, boiled to petét boulé; then 
having stoned, well bruised, and squeez- 
ed out the juice of the cherries, add it to 
the rest, stir it well, place it on hot ashes, 
stirring constantly until the paste is pro- 
perly done; then finish it in the usua} 
way, (See MarcuPane.) Strawberries, 
raspberries, currants, or any other fruit 
may be used in the same way. 

Crerries (Massepain of ).—Take the 
stones from halfa pound of ripe cherries, 
bruise the fruit, and then add to it a 
pound of sugar, and the same of pounded 
sweet almonds ; put them on the fire, and 
work them till quite dry. When tiis is 
quite cold, pound ic with the whites of 


( 144 ) 


CHE 


three or four eggs, and alittle rawsugar. 
Put it on paper of whatever form you 
please, and bake in a moderateoven. _ 
~ Cnerry Paste.—Take two pounds of 
Morella cherries, stone them, press out 
the juice through asieve, (they must be 
boiled first), and put it into a skillet over 
the fire to dry ita little, mix a pound of 
sugar boiled to grande plume with this, 
stirring constantly with a wooden spoon $ 
when the paste is of a good consistencey, 
putit iato moulds, and dry it in a gentle 
oven. 
CHerries (Preserved dryin bunches).* 
—Ice up some fine equal sized cherries. 
in bunches, seven or eight in each, fasten 
them by the ends of the stalks, throw 
them into sugar boiled to soufié. Let 
the cherries boil up in it fourteen or 
fifteen times, then skim and pour it into 
an earthen pan, set it in a stove till the 
next day, when drain and lay out the 


cherries todry. To each pound of fruit. 


allow an equal weight of sugar. 
Cuerriss, (Preserved, Liquid).*— 
Stone and take the stalks from six pounds 
of cherries, ard put them into an equal 
quantity of clarified sugar boiled to 
grande plume; boil them up several 


times in a covered saucepan ; skim, taxe. 


them from the fire, and let them drain 5 
the next day, boil the sugar to grand 


perlé, and add to it a little currant juice, 


put in your fruit, and boil it again eight. 
or ten times, covered as before: take it 
off, skim, and put it into pots. When 
the fruit is cold, cover it with currants, 
Sramboisées. 

Cuernies (Preserved with the Leaves 
and Stalks green).—Dip the stalks and 
leaves in boiling hot vinegar, and then. 
place them upright in a sieve to dry. 
Having boiled some double-refined sugar 
to a syrup, put in cherries with the stalks 


and leaves prepared as above, and scald 
them ; take them out, and lay them again | 


on a sieve, until the sugar be boiled to 
candy height; then arrange them pro- 
perly, and dry them hke any other sweet- 
meats. 


Cuerry Pudding.—Makea paste with 
butter, or suet chopped small, rubbed 


into flour, and moistened with water ; 


line a basin (well buttered) with this, 


put in picked cherries, cover the top with 


a crust, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. 
Other fruit may be added. Some boil. 
fruit puddings in a cloth without a basin. . 


Another way.*—Make a plain batter 


pudding, and stir in picked cherries, — 
taking care not to break them. The. 
batter must be made thicker and with © 
more eggs, than for plain boiling. Tie. 


it in acloth, and boil as any other pud- 
ding. 








CHE 


_ Cuerry Pudding, Anglo Francais.*— 
Pick two pounds of fine ripe cherries,and 
mix them with a quarter of a pound of 
‘picked red currants, (having extracted 
the seeds), and six ounces of powder 
Sugar. Make yonr pudding as directed 
in the recipe for apple-pudding, with 
Muscadel raisins. You may make use 
of raspberries instead of currants; or 
mix red or white currants and raspber- 
ries. 

Cuerry Ratafia*—Crush ten pounds 
of cherries, and put them into a jar with 
a quart of brandy; cover the jar close, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six 
days; at the end of that time put the 
fruit into a cloth, and press the juice out 
through. Boil five pounds of fine currants, 
with three pounds of sugar, and press 
out the juice as you did thatofthe cher- 
ries; mix the two juices, measure them, 
and for every pint allowa pint of brandy. 
Add a pound of the kernels of the cher- 
ry-stones, half a pound of coriander, a 
little mace, some cloves and cinnamon, 
allwell pounded, put them into ajar, and 
pour. the liquor over them ; cover it close 
and let it infuse for six weeks, after 
which, pass the whole through a jelly- 
bag, and bottle it; cork it carefully. 

Second way.*—Take the stones and 
stalks from tke quantity of cherries you 
intend to use, and put a few raspberries 
with them; bruise and put them into a 
jar, and. let them stand for four or five 
days, stirring the pulp two or three times 
each day; then press out all the juice, 
measure it, and to every three pints of 
it put a quart of brandy: and to these 
five pints, add three handsful of the ker- 
nels pounded, and a pound and quarter 
ofsugar. Infuse in the same jar a hand- 
ful of coriander, and a little cinnamon. 
Let it stand for seven or eight days, stir- 
ring it every day, then filter and put it 
into bottles ; cork them well. 

Cuernres( Syrup of ).*—Tke best cher- 
ries for this purpose are the black sour 
ones; take cut the stones and express 
the juice into an earthen pan, where it 
must stand in a cool place for twenty-four 
hours to clear: at the end of that time 
pour the juice gently into a pan, and add 
to it, for each pound of juice, two pounds 
of crushed sugar, and two drachms of 
cinnamon, previously infused in a glass 
of water, wrap the cinnamon in a piece of 
linen, and put it with the water into your 
pan; boil altogether for half an_hour, 
skimming it carefully. When sufficient- 
ly done take out the cinnamon} strain 
the syrup till quite clear, and when cold 
bottle it. 

_Cuerniss for Tarts.—Prick some Mo- 
rella cherries with a needle, each three 


( 145 ) 


CHE ‘ 


or four times, and let them stand in a 
dish with powder-sugar sifted over them. 
The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, 
and whilst hot, put the fruit into it, and 
when they have remained in it twenty- 
four hours, take them out and boil the 
syrup again until very thick, then put in 
a little brandy, and add the cherries. 
When cold, put them into glasses. Keep 
them in a cool place. 

Cuerry Tart.—Make a good crust, 
and lay it round the sides of a dish, strew 
in sugar, put in your fruit picked, and 
sugar at the top, red currants may be 
pi if agreeable, cover with crust and 

ake. 

Another.—Make a compote of cherries, 
either with or without stoning, and half 
the quartity ofsugar used for preserving. 
When done, !ay it in a puff paste ; cover 
it with the same or not, according to your 
fancy, and bake just time enough to 
colour your paste. 

This must be eaten cold. 

Cuerry Tartlets.*—Take the stones 
and stalks from a pound and a half of 
sweet cherries, and give them a few 
boils in a quarter ofa pound of powder- 
sugar, but no water. Prepare your 
tartlets in the usual way. (See TartT- 
LETS, and having drained the fruit, put 
them in, and mask the tartlets with the 
syrup reduced. 

Crerries en Timbale. — Take the 
stones very carefully from two pounds of 
good, red, fleshy cherries, add to them 
the kernels, and put them with some 
clarified sugar, into a sugar-pan, and 
boil them gently till pretty thick ; then 
put them into a basin, and mix them 
with the juice of two lemons, and a little 
clarified isinglass; set this on ice, and 
just before you serve it, put it into a 
timbale paste previously prepared. 

Currry WVater.—Take one ponnd of 
Kentish cherries, pound them in amortar 
so as to break the kernels of them; take 
the cherries and kernels, put them into 
a basin, and add four gills of syrup; 
squeeze four lemons in, and add a suth- 
cient quantity of water; make it to your 
taste ; pass it through a sieve, and it will \ 
be fit for use. 

Cuerry /Vater,—Put to two quarts of 
claret four pounds of ripe black cherries 
bruised; add to them angelica, balm, 
and carduces, of each a handful, half the 
Same quantity of mint, double of rose- 
mary-flowers, and treble of clove gilly- 
flowers, two ounces of cinnamon, @n 
one ounce of nutmeg, both cut small; 
put these ingredients into a deep vessel, 
stir them well, and cover the vessel 
quite close ; and when it has stood twenty 
four rth distil it; then draw off as 


CHE 


much as runs clear; Sweeten with sugar- 
candy. Ret 

-Cnerny Water.* — Take the stalks 
and stones from two pounds of very ripe 
cherries, crush them in an earthen pan, 
with half a pint of water; then put them 
into a fine sieve, and let them drain. 
With the liquid mix up eight ounces of 
sugar; beat it up well with a spoon, and 
put it into botiles, which must be placed 
in iced water. 

Cuerry /Vine.*—To make five pints 


of this wine, take fifteen pounds of cher- |. 


ries, and two of currants, bruise them 
together ; mix with them two-thirds of 
the kernels, and put the whole (the cher- 
ries, currants, and kernels), into a bar- 
rel, with a quarter of a pound of sugar to 
every pint of juice. The barrel must be 
quite full; cover the barrel with. vine- 
leaves, and sand above them, and let it 
stand till it has done working, which will 
be in about three weeks; then stop it 
with a bung, and in two months time it 
may be bottled. . 

Another Way.—Stone, and take the 
stalks from red cherries when they begin 
to ripen; put them into a glazed pan, 
and squeeze them to a pulp, either with 
your hands or awooden ladie. Let them 
stand twelve hours to ferment: then put 
them into a linen cloth, and press out the 
juice, which must remain until the scum 
rises, then skim it clean; pour it off 
gently into a cask, and put to each gallon 
a pound of loaf-sugar. When it has fer- 
mented seven or eight days, and is be- 
come clear, draw it off into smaller casks, 
or you may bottle it. Keep it cool, and 
in ten or twelve days it will be ripe. 

CHERVIL.*—Is principally used in 
soups and stuffing, and is generally pre- 
served with other herbs as follows: take 
of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslain, and 
cucumbers, if in season, quantities ac- 
cording to your liking; wash them well; 
mince and press them in your hand, to 
squeeze outall the water. Putthem into 
a. kettle with water, some butter and salt, 
and boil them until the water is entirely 
consumed. Then take them out, and 
when cold, put them into pots; cover 
them with warmed butter. When you 
want to use these herbs, put them into 
some stock that has very little salt in it. 

_If they are required for a farce or gar- 
nish, boil them a minute or two in some 
batter; thicken with the yolks of eggs 
and milk ; when so prepared, they may 
Petite under hard eggs or broiled 
fish. 

For sauce, it must be chopped small, 
hoiled in salt avd water, and mixed with 
melted butter. 

Currvin Cream.*—Boil a handful of 


( 146 ) 


‘chervil in a glass of water for half an 
hour; then strain and reduce it to two 
-spoonsful ; add halfa pint of cream, the 





CHE 


same of milk, a quarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, the rind of a lemon, alittle 
coriander and orange-flower water; boib 


these half an hour longer: beat up the 


yolks of six eggs with a small quantity, 


of flour; pour the cream on them  mix+ 


them well;.strain, and put it into the 
bain marie. Glaze it wi sugar and the 
salamander. 3b: Va bra ah 
Cuervit Sauce. — Put a few mush- 
rooms, parsley, chibbol, shalots, twm 
cloves, a bay-leaf, and a few tarragon 
leaves in some melted butter; let them 
soak for some time, then add a little 


broth, white wine, pepper and salt; re- 


duce it to a proper thickness, but do not 
skim it; when done, put in some cher= 
vil, scalded and chopped; heat it all up 
together. ' ah 

Cuervit (Syrup of).*— Put into a 


‘warm glass, or glazed earthen vessel, a 
4 quart of hot water, and five ounces of 


chervil ; place it on hot ashes, (the ves- 
sel must be very closely stopped). In 
twelve hours draw off the infusion, and 
add to it two pounds of powder-sugar 3 


boil the whole to perdé; take it from the . 


fire, and letit cool before you bottle it. — 
Cuervit Water.— Steep chervil in 
boiling water until the latter is properly 
flavoured ; then set it by ina cold place 
for some hours before you want to use it. 
Sweeten it to the taste. 
CHESNUTS.*—Should be placed on 
the fire in a pan with holes to roast ; first 
slitting or cutting a notch in the’skins, 
to prevent their flying off. When done, 
serve them in desserton a napkin, as hot 
as possible. Some boil the chesnuts in- 
stead of roasting them, as the skins are 
then cleaner, but the nuts not quite so 


|mealy; the better way is to boil them in. 


plenty of water, and when nearly done, 

take them out and roast them, 
CarsnuT Biscuits.*—Take six ounces 

of roasted and skinned chesnuts, a little 


grated lemon-peel, a pound and a half: 


of powder-sugar, and ten whites of eggs. 
Pound the chesnuts toa paste, and then 
beat it up in an earthen pan with the 
other ingredients; when your paste is of 
a proper thickness, take it up with a 
knife, and lay it on paper, and form into. 
biscuits whatever size you please. Bake 
them in a moderate oven, and when of a. 
nice colour take them out. Do not: re- 


etm them from the paper till they are 
cold. ya ales 


Carsnut Bread.*—Roast a hundred 
fine chesnuts, being careful not to burn, 
them; peel them well, and pound them. 


‘with butter and double cream ; pass them, 


ee a ee eee na 


FE ee! nS aR eT 





CHE 


Strain them again. Weigh your paste 
and for every pound, allow half a pound 


and form of the preparation as many 


chesnuts as it will make; lay them on a> 


sheet of wafer paper, butter and dorez 
them several times, and then bake them 
in a hot oven. 

Cuesnuts au Caramel.—Roast ches- 
nuts as for the table; take off the skins; 
dip each in the whites of eggs beaten, and 
then roll them in powder-sugar; lay 
them separately on paper to dry, in a 
moderate oven; they may be cut into 
different forms if you think proper, and 
glazed either white or brown. 

Another WVay.*—Cut some osier rods 
or reeds into pieces about two or three 
inches long, and on the point of each put 
a roasted and skinned chesnut. Take a 
piece of very fresh butter, (about the 


size of a nut), and rub it with the palm. 


of the hand, on an iron plate or marble 
slab, taking care to rub every part well. 
Then having boiled some clarified sugar 
to caramel height; take a piece of the 
osier, with a chesnut on the end, in each 
hand, and dip them in the sugar, twiat- 
ing them round repeatedly, that the 
sugac may adhere equally about the 
chesnut till it begins to cool, then lay 
them on the buttered slab, and dip in 
two more, proceeding as above ; when all 
are done and cold, take out the osier 
twigs, and wrap each chesnut in peers 
with a device if you think proper, ese 
ehesnts make a delicious sweetmeat, 
put they should be eaten the day on 
which they are made. 

Cuesnuts, Compote of.* — Take the 
outer skin from about a hundred ches- 
nuts, and then put them into a saucepan 
with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handsful of bran; put them on the 
fire and blanch them: as soon as a pin 
will xo into them easily, they are suffi- 
ciently done; rub off the second skin, 
and throw them into cold water, with 
the juice of a lemon. Clarify and boil 
a pound and a half of sugar to petit lissé, 
and having drained your chesnuts, put 
them into the sugar with the juice of a 
jJemon, the quarter of a glass of orange- 


flower water ; put these on the fire fora | 


short time, but not to let them boil: 
then take them off and set them by. 
The next day drain the chesnuts, and 
boil up the syrup four times; then add 
mere sugar, and having boiled it to 
soufié, put in the chesnuts ; blanch them 


instantly afterwards, and put them into | 


compotiers. 


Cuesnuts { Compote of ).*—Roast your 


( 147 ) 
through a sieve; add two eggs, and then | 





CHE 


chésnuts as for the dessert, and when 
they are peeled and skinned, put them 


j V j into a saucepan, with a quarter of a 
of powder, a Jittle vanilla in powder, and 
two ounces of flour; mix these together, | 


pourd of sugar, and half a glass of water ; 
let them simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
ready to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
them. . 
CueEsnuts, Compote of, a Ul’ Italienne.* 
—Roast and take the peel from fifty 
chesnuts, flatten each a little between 
your thumb and finger, and place them 
on silver plate, put over them very 
lightly, a quarter of a pound of powder 
sugar, and set the plate on a stove to 
boil ; when you have taken them from 
the fire, strew more sugar over, and 
glaze them with the salamander. Ar- 
range them in a cempotier, and make a 
syrup with a little clarified sugar, the 


juice of a Seville orange, and half that of 


a lemon. 

CuesnuT Cream,.*—Pougd twenty-five 
roasted chesnuts in a mortar, with a 
little milk ; then put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two. 
eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of 
butter, and four ounces of powder sugar ; 
when it has boiled a little while, strain 
it, put it into a dish. or glass for table, | 
and let it cool. 

Curesnut Cream. — Roast, and then 
pound a quarter of a hundred of ches- 
nuts, with a small quantity .of milk; to 
this add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of 
milk, a quarter of a pound of powder 
sugar, and abeut an ounce of butter. 
Boil these together for some minutes, 
then strain it, and set it by to cool. 

Cursnurs, Croquettes of.*—Roast fifty 
fine chesnuts, pick them, and take away 
all those parts which may have become 
coloured; set aside a dozen, and divide 
each in half. Pound the remainder with 
two ounces of butter, and rub the paste 
through a sieve, into a stewpan, witha 
glass of cream, two ounces of butter, 
the same of sugar, and a grain of salt ; 
put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one 
way, in two minutes add to it the yolks 
of six eggs, and replace it on the fire for 
one minute, when the cream will have 
some consistence 3 pour it on a buttered 
baking plate, and spread it out, and 
cover it with paper. When cold, enclose 
each half chesnut in about double its 
size of the cream, roll it in the hollow of 
your?hand to make it perfectly round, 
and then roll in crumb of bread grated 
extremely fine. All the croguettes being 
thus formed, beat up five eggs, adda 
pinch of salt, dip the croguettes in this, 
drain, and then roll them again in bread 


| crumbs ; make them quite smooth in the 


hollow eas hand, and fry them in 


CHE 


lard, or whatever else you think proper. 
Move the croguettes with the point of a 
skewer, and when done take them out 
with a skimmer; drain them well, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them 
ina pyramidal form. —~ * 
Cuesnut Custard.*——Take three | 

ounds of well roasted chesnuts, remov- 
Ing such parts as were coloured by the 
fire, and pound them with a pound of 
fresh butter; when a smooth paste, add 
three quarters of a pound of powder 
sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, a pinch 
of salt, and a few spconsful of whipped 
cream, the whites whipped firm, and 
finish the custard as directed. 

Cuesnuts @ 1’ Espagnole.* —— Take 
about fifty good chesnuts, and blanch 
them in hot. water, in the same way as 
almonds; when they are thoroughly 
cleared of both skins, put them into a 
saucepan, with two ounces of butter, 
four large spoonsful of espagnole, two 
glasses of consommé, a bay leaf, and a 
litt'e nutmeg; boil the chesnuts in this 
for half an hour, then take them out, 
and having strained, keep them hot in 
the bain marie, whilst the sauce is re- 
duced 3 then pour the latter into a dish, 
lay the chesnuts on it, and serve. . 

Cuesnuts, Glacés.* — Having taken 
the outer skin from some fine chesnuts, 
blanch them in some boiling water with 
two spoonsful of flour until they are suf- 
ficiently tender to allow a pin to pass 
through them easily; then take them, 
one by one, from the saucepan, clear 
away the inner skin andthrow them into 
cold water; when all are done, drain 
them and simmer them a minute or two 
in some clarified sugar; then add a little 
lemon-juice and put them into a stove 
til] the nextday. Drain them again and 
boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, 
and set it by; when lukewarm, put in 
the chesnuts, and place the whole in the 
stove again. When ready to finish, 
drain the chesnuts a third time, sprinkle 
them with sugar and dry them on slates. 

Cuesnuts @ 7 Italienne.*—Peel some 
broiled chesnuts, lay them on a napkin, 
two at atime, and press them together, 
so that of the two, you make one; put 
them successively into clarified sugar 
boil them gently for a short time, an 
place them in a baking-pan}; sprinkle 
them with sugar, and brown them, 
either with a salamander, or in the oven. 
Squeeze orange or lemon juice over 
them. 

Cuesnuts. (fo keep).* — Pierce the 
skins of the chesnuts as if for roasting, 
and then put, them into bottles, and boil 
them up in a bain-marie. When you 
wish to use them, throw them, one by 


( 148 ) 


one, into cold water; then sprinkle salt 


CHE 


over and broil them. 


Cuesxut Paste.—Make a marmalade 


by boiling chesnuts in water, and rub- 
bing them through a sieve, then pound 
them, and to three quarters of a pound 


of this, add a quarter of a pound of any ~ 
| other fruit marmalade; mix them well ' 


up with an equal weight of sugar boiled 
to grand plume; put it into your moulds 
and bake it as cherry, or any other paste. 

Cuesnut Paste, Cumpote of.*—Pre- 
pare an hundred chesnuts in the same 
way as for Compote of Chesnuts, and put 


them into a skillet with a pound and a 
half of clarified sugar; reduce them over ~ 


the fire to a paste with a little orange- 
flower water; dry it like almond paste, 
pass it through a sieve into a compotier ; 
make a syrup like the Compote a U Ita- 
dienne, which pour on them and serve. 

Cuesnut Pudding.—Put a dozen and 
a half of chesnuts into a skillet or sauce- 
an of water, boi] them a quarter of an 
1our, then blanch and peel them, and 
beat them in a marble mortar, with a 
little orange-flower or rose-water and 
white wine, until they are a fine thin 


pa then beat up twelve eggs, with 


alf the whites, and mix them well; 
grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, mix 


them with three pints of cream and half ' 


a pound of melted butter; sweeten to 
your palate, and mix all together, put it 
over the fire, and keep stirring it until 


it is thick. Lay a puff-paste all over the - 


dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it, 
When you cannot procuré cream, take 
three pints of milk, heat up the yelks of 
four eggs, and stir into the milk, set it 
over the fire, stirring it all the time until 
itis scalding hot, then mix it inthe room 


of the cream. ‘- 


Cuesnut and Plum-pudding, Angh- 
Franeais.* — Having roasted thirty-six 
chesnuts, choose from among them ten, 
which are perfectly white, and cut them 
in halves; take from the remainder a 
quarter of a pound, and beat them with 
an equal weight of fresh butter to apaste; 
rub them through a horse-hair sieve, 
and add to them three ounces of rice- 
flour, six yolks, and two whole eggs, 
fourteen ounces of veal suet shred, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of 
bitter macaroons, ditto of stoned rai- 
sins, the twenty half chesnuts, each cut 
into four pieces, halfa glass of cream, a 
pinch of salt, grated nutmeg, and halfa 
glass of rum or arrack. Make your pud- 
ding like marrow pudding Anglo- 
Francais. 

Cuesnut Purée.—Slit the peel of some 
fine new chesnuts, and fry them in a 
little butter till the peel comes off; then 


i ae 


a a 








CHE 


let them boil in some consommé and 


sugar; add half a dozen spoonsful of 
espagnole when nearly done, and then 
rub the whole through atammy. This 
sauce being apt to get too thick, must be 
kept rather liquid. 

Peles (Glazed) Pie. — Glaze the 
quantity of chesnuts you may require, 
with orange: flowers, and place them in 
layers in a crust made of almond paste; 
eut lemon-peel into fillets, and stick 
them into the interstices; cover the 
whole with very clear apple-jelly. 

Cuesnuts (Ragodlt of).— When the 
chesnuts are properly prepared, put 
them into a saucepan with haifa glass of 
white wine, two spoonsful of cullis, a 
little stock, and salt; boil it until re- 
duced to a thick sauce. Be careful not 
to break the chesnuts, but they must be 
thoroughly done. 

Cuesnut Rolls.* — Roast and peel 


about three dozen cheSnuts, and care- | 


fally removing those parts which have 
been coloured by the fire, weigh six 
eunces of them and pound them with 
twe ourfces of butter; when reduced to 
a very fine paste, pass it through asieve 
and make it into rolls, as directed (see 
Almond Roiis). 

Cresnuts (Soufflé of).*—Peel your 
echesnuts, and then boil them in water 
with any aromatic ingredient you think 
proper; Jay them in a cloth to drain; 
dry them thoroughly, pound and rub 
them through a guenedles sieve; put 
them into the mortar again with half 
their quantity of butter, and a little 
et Musas, and when they are well 
beaten together, add the yolks of six 
eggs, and beat them up likewise. Ifthe 
paste is too liquid put it into a saucepan 
over the fire to dryalittle. About half 
an hour before it should be sent to table, 
whip the six whites of eggs to a froth, as 
for biscuits, and mix them lightly with 
your souflé, which put into a silver 
stewpan, and place it in a cool oven. 

CuesnuT Soup.* — Half roast about 
seventy or eighty chesnuts in hot ashes, 
and then take off the outer and second 
skins. Boil them in some good beef or 
rich fewl stock; when well cone pound 
those which have broken in the boiling, 
and press them through a sieve, moist- 
ening them with stock as a purée. Keep 
the unbroken chesnuts to place round 
the soup-dish as a garnish. 

Another way.*—Put into a stewpan a 
piece of butter, three onions sliced, two 
carrots, @ parsnip, a head of celery, three 
leeks (all cut small), halfa clove of gar- 
lick,and two cloves; when theyhave taken 
colour, put in a little water, and let it 
boil for an hour, then strain and season 


( 149 ) 


CHI 


it with salt. Take the outer and second 
skin from an hundred or more of ches- 
nuts, and stew them in a part of the 
above liqucr; when sufficiently done, 
rub the broken ones through a sieve as 
above, and keep the whole ones to gar- 
nish ; moisten the former with the liquor 
they were stewed in; then boil up the 
whole together, and serve. To make 
this soup ex gras, meat must be added 
to the roots in the first instance. 
Cuesnut Soup, @ 1? Anglaise. — Lay 
some slices of ham or bacon at the bot- 
tom of a stewpan, and place on thema 
pound of veal, a pigeon cut in pieces, an 
onion, sweet herbs, pepper, mace, and 
a carrot; let these stand over the fire 
until it begins to stick to the bottom, 
then add a crust of bread and two quarts 
of beef broth; boil it gently, and when 
reduced to nearly half, strain it, and 
having roasted half a hundred chesnuts, 
stew them in beef stock (just sufficient 
to cover them) until quite tender; add 
them to the soup made above; season 


| with salt, and serve with fried bread. 


Cuesnuts, Stewed.—Cut a notch in 
the skins of about fifty chesnuts, and 
put them in a stewpan with a little but- 
ter; shake them over the fire, and when 
the skin is quite come off, let them sim- 
mer in some consommé, turn them about 
occasionally, until nearly dry; then add 
a little espagnole ; simmer them gently 
inthat fora shorttime. Ifit shouid be 
too thick, you may add more consommeé. 
Salt it to your taste, and put in a few 
mushrooms stewed; great care should 
be taken not to break the chesnuts. 
Serve with roasted turkey,stewed beef,&c. 

CHICKENS. — Having picked the 
chickens, singe them well to remove all 
the hairs, &c., which may remain on the 
skin; then bruise the bone close to the 
foot,and draw the strings from the thigh. 
Take out the crop bya slit cut in the 
back of the neck; then cut off the neck, 
leaving skin enough to turn over the back. 
Cut off the vent, and take out the inside, 
being careful not to break the gall; break 
the back-bone and the two bones leading 
to the pinions; wipe the chicken with a 
cloth, and put in a Jittle pepper and salt. 
If the chicken is to be trussed for roast- 
ing, proceed as follows:—Turn the legs 
close down to the apron and run askewer 
through ; run qnother skewer in the joint 
of one wing through the body to the other 
wing; and having washed the liver and 
gizzard, place them in the pinions. For 
boiling, the under-part of the thigh must, 
be cut, and the Jegs placed under the 
apron, only letting the ends be seen. 

; se sure to preserve the breast very 
ull. 


CHI 


Totruss them, en poule, for the French 
dishes, make a hole above the joint of 
the leg, and put the claws into the body. 
A string fastened across the back, from 
the head to the point of the skewers, will 
effectually preserve the chicken in its 

_ proper form. 

Cuickens, @ l’ Anglaise.*—Truss and 
roast them till three parts done, and be- 
fore they are coloured, dish them up. 
Pour on them melted butter mixed with 
parsley, garlick, tarragon cut small, and 
alittle flour. Serve very hot. 

Cuickens, Artificial.—Make a force- 
meat with the white meat of chickens, 
or some veal or lamb, apiece of fat bacon, 
a shalot (all minced very small), parsley, 
also chopped, a little butter, and the 
yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, and mace. Work this up into 
the shape of a chicken, and stick into it 
the feet of the bird ; bind it well together 
with egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, 
place them on buttered tins, and bake 
them. Serye either with or without 
gravy. 

Cuicxens, & la Bellevue.—Bone two 
nice chickens, and fill them with a ra- 
goit made as follows :—Boil some small 
onions in stock, till about three parts 
done; then stew with a little melted 
Jard, two slices of peeled lemon, truffles, 
mushrooms, livers cut small, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt, for about half 
an hour; do not use them till cold. 
Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon 
rubbed with pepper and salt, and add 
shalots and parsley: over these double 
paper buttered. Broil them slowly; 
when done, wipe off the fat and serve 
with sauce d@ la Bellevue. 

Cuickens aw Blanc-mange.—Boil a 
pint of cream with a bay-leafand a little 
coriander for a short time; then add to 
it a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds 
beaten ; when well strained, beat up 
the yolks of four eggs ina little cream, 
‘and put them to the former; place it on 
the fire again, and keep stirring ; mix in 
by degrees, the breast of a roasted fowl 
minced with beef marrow, and seasoned 
with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. With 
this blanc-mange fill two chickens boned, 
and sew them up; scald, and then braise 
them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When 
they are done, prick them that the fat 
may drain out, wipe, and serve them 

with sauce @ la Reine. 

HICKEN (Blanquette of), a la Turque. 
—Cut a cold roasted chicken into scol- 
lops ; place some rice, boiled in consommé 
and béchamelle, into a dish en buzsson, 
lay the scollops, e7 mzroton, to the top of 
it; keep it hot, and when ready toserve, 


( 150 ) 


CHI 


cover it with sauce @ blanquetie, or a bé- 
chamelle. + ae 

Cuickens fo Botl.—Put the chickens: 
into a saucepan by themselves, and boila 
small one for fifteen, a larger one twenty 
minutes. 

Another way.—When they are drawn 
and trussed, lay the chickens in skim 
miik for about two hours; then put them 
into cold water, cover them close, and set 
them over a slow fire, and skim them 
well. As soon as they have boiled 
slowly, take them from the fire, and 
let them remain in the water close cover- 
ed for half an hour; then drain and 
serve with white sauce. agi 

Cuickens @ la Bricoliére.—Take out 
all the bones, except those of the legs, 
which must be trussed over the breast, 
something in the form of a chairman’s 
strap; give them a few turns over the 
fire, in alittle oil or butter, with some 
sliced lemon. Then put them and the 
butter and lemon into a pan with a few 


slices of ham and veal; coyer them with - 


bacon, parsley, a clove of garlick, thyme, 
bay-leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. 
When these,;sbave stewed together a 
quarter of aij hour, put in a glass of 
wine and finish; skim and strain the 


sauce, thicken it with cullis, and serve 


it on the chickens. 
CuickeN, Brotled.—Split it down the 


back, pepper, salt, and broil it. Serve - 


it with white mushroom sauce, or melted 
butter with pickled mushrooms. at 
Another way.—Split a couple of chick- 
ens, take out the inside and back-bones, 
beat them with a wooden spoon, dip. 
them in clarified butter, and broil them, 
the inside next the fire (which should be 
of charcoal), and only turn them to co- 
lourthem. When done, pour on them 
a sauce made as follows:—Boil some 
stewed mushrooms with beef stock and 
plain sauce, an equal quantity of each, 
until of a proper consistence ; flavour it 
with lemon-juice and cayenne-pepper- 
CuIckEN Broth.—Take the remaining 
parte of a chicken from which panada 
as been made, all but the rump ; skin, 
and put them into the water it was first 
boiled in, with the addition of a little 
mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, 
and simmer it. When ofa good flavour, 
put to it a quarter of an ounce of sweet 
almonds beaten with a spoonful of water; 


boil it in a little while, and when cold, — 


take off the fat. ; a 
Cuicken Broth, Pectoral.+—Prepare 
a chicken in the usual way, and put it 


into a saucepan with two pints and a © 


half of water, twe ounces of pear! barley, 
the same of rice, and two ounces of the 








CHI (151 ) CHI 


best honey; boil all together, skimming 
well for three hours, until it be reduced 
to two-thirds. 
CuIcKENs en Caisse.*—Truss two pre- 
ared chickens with the legs in the 
dy, leave on the wings, and flatten the 
chickens a little. Soak them in sweet 
oil, with parsley, scallions, shalots and 
garlic, all whole, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper; make a case of paper, put 
in the chickens and the above ingre- 
dients, cover them with slices of bacon 
and paper; cook them over a clear but 
slow fire, or in a baking pan. When 
sufficiently done, take out the herbs, 
bacon, and serve them in the paper} 
drop a very little verjuice on them. 
Cuickens en Catssons.* — Cut the 
white parts of two chickens into fillets, 
and marinade them in oil, with salt, pep- 
per, sweet herbs, chopped, &c. siake 
some little cases of white paper, and put 
a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of 
each, lay in the fillets, strew in some 
trufiies sliced, and moisten them with 
consommé,or stock 5 put the cases in a 
baking pan, and bake them. When done, 
put them ona dish with the other parts 
of the chickens (which must be trussed 
with the head under the skin of the 
breast) and pour over the whole some 
veal gravy and some lemon-juice. 
CuHicken en Capilotade.*—Put into a 
Stewpan a little butter and flour; add 
Mushrooms, parsley, and shalots cut 
small, dilute these with equal quantities 
of stock, and red or white wine. When 
the sauce is well boiled, skimit; cut a 
‘roasted fowl in pieces, and put it into 
this sauce; stew it gently for a quarter 
ofan hour. Add some gherkins cut in 
thin slices. c 
Caicsens and Caulifiowers.*— Chop 
up the livers of two middling sized 
chickens, and mix with them parsley,scal- 
lions, a bit of butter, salt and pepper; 
put this into the bodies of the chickens, 
which must be trussed like turkey 
poults; parboil them with a little butter 
or lard, then wrap in bacon or buttered 
paper, and roast them. When done, 
serve them with sauce made of cullis, 
butter, salt,and pepper, boiled up. Gar- 
nish with plain boiled cauliflowers. 
Cuickens @ fa Cendre.* — Stuffa 
couple of chickens with a rich farce, 
lard, and prepare them as for roasting. 
Line a stewpan with slices of veal and 
bacon, onions, carrots, &c. place the 
chitkens in it, and let them stew in their 
own gravy for five or six hours over hot 
ashes; keep the stewpan closely covered. 
When done, serve them in their own 
liquor ; but if that should be too thick, 


put in alittle stock or veal gravy ; boil 
it up two or three times. 

Cuicxens and Cheese.* — When the 
chickens are drawn and trussed, cut 
them along the back and flatten them ; 


toss them up in a stewpan with a bit of 


butter, half a glass of white wine, and 
the same of red, parsley, scallion, two 
cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay- 
leaf, thyme, basil, very little salt and 
pepper. Stew them gently for about an 
hour, then take out the chickens and 
put in a bit of butter the size ofa walnut, 
worked into some flour, thicken this over 
the fire. Pour part of this sauce on a dish, 
aud upon the sauce a handful of Gruyere 
cheese grated; then the chickens ; pour 
the remainder of the sauce on them, and 
about as much Gruyere cheese grated 
on the top, as there is underneath. Put 
the dish in a baking pan, with fire above 
and below; when of a good colour, and 
the sauce is consumed, serve it quite hot. 
If the cheese be very salt, the chickens 
must be dressed previously without salt. 

Cuickens en Chervil.*—Make a ra- 
gotit of two carrots, a parsnip, two or 


three sliced onions, garlic, two cloves, a 


bay-leaf, thyme, basil, and a little but- 
ter ; when a little coloured add a glass of 
white wine, an equal quantity of stock, 
and reduce it to half. Stratn,and put 
in butter (about the size of an egg) work- 
ed up with some flour, some chopped 
chervil ; ‘thicken it, and serve it with 
roast chickens. 

Cuickens @ la Chevaliére.* — Chuse 
two fat chickens, raise the white part, 
and lard it, and heat it; then cut it up, 
and having warmed some butter in a 
stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave 
them on the fire a-:minute or two, and 
toss them (still over the fire) until they 
are hard 3 sprinkle them with flour well 
mixed with butter, add some hot stock, 
four spoonsful of well skimmed velouté, 
parsley, scallions and pepper ; let it boil. 
When nearly done, put in some equal 
sized onions peeled, and skim it. On 
serving take out the parsley, piace the 
pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain 
the sauce over them, having thickened 
it with the yolks of three eggs. 

Another Way.*—Proceed in the same 
way as above, only the wings must be 
laid aside, the skin taken off, and the 
meat cut from the bones, larded as _be- 
fore mentioned. Lard two of the wings 
with truffles, and having melted some 
butter in a baking pan, putin all four 
wings, sprinkle them with salt, and cover 
them with buttered paper. The fri- 
cassee being ready, garnish it with the 
wings, and four fine cray-fish, and 


CHI 


plaee a large truffle in the middle and 
serve. 

Cuickens Chiringate.—Having taken 
off the feet, beat the breast bones of your 
chickens flat without breaking the skin, 
flour and fry them in butter; when of a 
nice brown take all the fat from the pan, 
leaving in the chickens, over which lay 
a pound of gravy beef cut in thin slices, 
another piece of beef also cut thin, some 
mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs: pour a quart 
of boiling water over the whole, cover it 
quite close, and let it stew; in a quarter 
of an hour take out the chickens, but let 
the gravy continue boiling, and when 
very rich strain it; then put it again 
into the pan with a little red wine anda 
few mushrooms ; then putin the chick- 
ens, and when they are hot, dish them 
up, and pour the sauce over them; gar- 
nish with slices of lemon and broiled 
ham. 

Cuicxens @ la Condé.——Take the 
breast bones from acouple of fat chickens, 
bind them to.a proper shape, and slit 
them equally with a penknife, and insert 
between each slit slices of trufiles and 
tongue @ l’écarlate; place them in an 
oval stewpan, place bacon all round, but 
none on the top; put fire on the top of 
the pan, until the bacon has taken co- 
lour ; then remove the fire, and let the 
chickens boil gently for half an hour; 
take them out, drain and glaze them; 
serve with a ragolit @ /’ Allemande. 

Cuickens @ la Créme.*—Parboil a 
couple of young chickens, cut them in 
pieces, and throw into warm water for 
half an hour; then dothem over the fire 
in alittle fresh butter, with salt, parsley, 
pepper, morels, &c. sprinkle with flour, 
and dilute with a glass of boiling water; 
cover the stewpan close, and let it stand 
on hot ashes until the water has soaked 
into the chicken, when add half a pint of 
cream and a little butter. The yolks of 
three eggs may be put in also, but in 
that case, a small quantity of verjuice 
should be put in before the cream. 

Second /Vay.*—Stuff and roast your 
chickens, and when you take them from 
the spit, rub them with butter, cover 
them with bread-crumbs, wrap them in 
slices of bacon, and bake them a short 
time; serve with well thickened cream- 
sauce. 

Cuickens (Croquettes of ).*—Reduce 
two spoonsiul of ve/owté or sauce towrnée, 
and add to it the yolks of four eggs; put 
to this the white meat of a chicken 
minced very small, and well mixed with 
the sauce, take it out, and roll it into 
balls about the size of a walnut; roll 
them in bread-crumbs, giving them an 


( 152 ) 


CHI 


elongated form; then dip them in some 
well-beaten egg, bread them again, and 
fry them of a light brown. Ma 

CuicKen (Craguettes of )@ la Royale. 
—-Mix well into some very thick bécha- 
melle and some glaze the breast of a 
chicken, some tongue, trufiles and mush- 
rooms all minced very smalil; when 
quite cold roll them into little balls” 
about the size of a nut, and having 
beaten up three eggs throw the halls 
into them, Take them out quickly and 
rojl them in bread-crumbs; dip them 
a second time into the eggs, and cover 
them again with bread-crumbs; fry 
them as other crogueties. Lay fried 
parsley on a napkin in a dish, place the 
croquettes on, and round it, and serve. 

CHICKENS aux Croutons.* — Stuff a 
couple of chickens with the livers, wrap 
them in bacon and paper, and roast 
them. Fry two crusts of bread in some 
oi], then put them to drain, and in the 
same oil fry two onions cut in small 
pieces ; when three parts done,add pars- 
ley, scallion, shalot, aud a fowl’s liver, 
all minced, a glass of white wine, a 
spoonful of cullis ; take off the fat, and 
season it with salt and bruised pepper 3 
stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. 
Dish the chickens, and place the erust 
by the side of them. 

Cuicken Currie. — Take the skin off; 
cutupa chicken, and roll each piece in 
currie-powder and flour (mixed together 
a spoonful of flour to half an ounce of 
currie) fry two or three sliced onions 
in butter ; when ofa light brown, put in 
the meat and fry them together till the 
meat becomes brown; then stew them 
together with a little water for two or 
three hours. More water may be added 
if too thick. 

Cuickxens @ 0 Ecarlate.* — Prepare 
your chickens as usual, take off the skin 
with great care, cover them with cray- 
fish butter, and then put the skin on 
again 3 season them lightly, wrap them 
in bacon, and roast them; on serving, 
pour more cray-fish putter on them. 
If you wish to have the chickens red, and 
the sauce white, put cream sauce under 
them. 

Cuickens aux Ecrevisses. — Having 
boned two or three middle-sized chickens 
rollthem up making them rather pointed 
at the neck, and braise them with the 
same number of cray-fish for an hour, 
Then wipe off the fat, and put them on 
a dish in the following manner: put'the 
pointed or neck part into the tail of a 
cray-fish, place the body on the chicken, 
and the claws at the side. Prepare the 
cance as usual, and pour it over the 
whole. 








CHI ( 153 ) Oe: GO 


‘Caickens (Fillets of) with Endive.— 
Having picked and washed a dozen 
heads of endive, blanch them; when 
they have drained on a sieve for a few 
minutes, rub them through it with a 
wooden spoon; then let them drain 
again for an hour or two, and stir them 
well intoa stewpan, with a little butter ; 
when it begins to fry, add come con- 
sommé, reduce it, put some cream sauce 
in and boil it till thick; then mixin the 
yolks of two eggs; place this in the 
middle of the dish, and having prepared 
your fillets, arrange them on the endive 
and serve with Jéchamelle sauce. 

CuIcKeN (cutlets of ) a l’ Epigramme. 
—Take the fillets of five chickens, pare 
them well, scrape the small bone of the 
pinion, and stick it into the point of the 
fillets, and season them with salt and 
pepper. Wash them with the yolks of 
two eggs and dip them in bread-crumbs, 
then in melted butter, then in bread- 
crumbs a second time, so that they may 
be entirely covered. Do not broil till 
just as they are wanted. Put some ji/ets 
mignons in scollops, in a sauce @ 6lun- 
guette with mushrooms, and serve 3/ or 
dress the ji/ets entire, and place them 
and the cutlets on a dish alternately, 
with allemande quite thin. 

Cuaickens @ /’ Excellence.— Make a 
ragoit as follows :—slice a quarter of a 
pound of pickled pork, and let it stand 
over the fire in some water, till nearly 
done; then add to it some fat livers, 
truffles, shalots, and parsley chopped, 
whole pepper, and a glass of white wine, 
thicken with the yolks of two eggs; 
when cold, put some ofthis under the 
skins ef two fat chickens, and the re- 
mainder into the body; give them a turn 
or two in the frying pan, in some butter 
and lemon-juice, then wrap in bacon and 
paper, and roast them. In the mean- 
time put some slices of bacon, ham, 
veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, 
parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and a spoonful 
of oil into a stewpan close covered for 
half an hour; then add a glass of white 
wine, the same of stock, and_ braise 
them for an hour anda half: skim and 
strain it, and put some shalots, butter 
and flour to it,!and serve on the chickens. 

Cuickens’? Feet and Forcemeat.—— 
Scald the skin from as many feet as you 
may require, tie themin a bundle and 
braise them till tender,and then dry them 
in a cloth. Make a good forcemeatand fill 
the claws with it, dip them in egg and 
then in bread crumbs; egg them and 
dip in bread crumbs asecond time, press 
it well on, and frythem in lard. Lay 
them on fried parsley and serve. 

CuHIcKkENS @ la Folette.— Cut carrots 


and parsnips into any form you please, 
and boil them with a few small onions in 
a little stock. In the meantime cut 
mushrooms, truffles and ham into very 
small pieces, and stew them in some 
butter, with sweet herbs, two cloves, 
thyme and a _bay-leaf; when these are 
coloured, add some veal gravy and a 
glass of white wine, and boil the whole 
slowly until sufficiently done, then skim 
and putit, with a littlecullis, anda few 
Olives stoned, to the carrots; pour this 
ragoQt. on two chickens, stuffed with 
their livers, &c. rolled in bacon and 
paperand roasted. 

Cuickens Fricasseed.*—Prepare and 
cut up twochickens; put them in a stew- 
pan with some butter, parsley, scallions, 
a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, 
mushrooms, anda slice of ham; let them 
stew till scarcely ahy sauce remains, 
then add a little flour, warm water, salt 
and pepper; stew it again and reduce 
the sauce. When nearly done put in the 
yolks of three eggs beaten up with a 
little cream or milk 3 thicken it over the 
fire, but do not let it boil ; a small quan- 
tity ‘of lemon-juice or vinegar may be 
added. Place the breasts and bones of 
the chickens on a dish, lay the legs and 
wings over them, and then pour the 
sauce over the whole; garnish with the 
mushrooms. Take off the skins before 
you cut up the chickens if you wish the 
fricassee very white. 

Cuickens @ la Bourdots.* — Proceed 
as above, but when the chickens are 
dished up strew bread-crumbs over them, 
and on that put several pieces of butter 
about the size ofa pea, and then brown 
it with the salamander, or in the oven. 

Cuickens (Fricassee of) ad I Alle- 
mande.* —— Parboil and cut up the 
chickens, and then, having put them 
into warm water for half an hour, stew 
them in some butter, with parsley, mo- 
rels, scallions, garlic, pepper, salt, a 
glass of stock, and half a glass of cham- 
pagne ; when nearly done add to this the 
yolks of three eggs beaten up with a 
few drops of water and some lemon- 
juice; stir it well the same way until 
finished, 

Cuicxens Fricasseed White. — Skin, 
cutup your chickens and lay them in 
warm water; then stew them tilltender 
in water, with lemon-peel, white wine, 
an anchovy, an onion, two or three 
cloves, sweet herbs. Take out the 
chickens when done, strain the liquor, 
and put a very little of it to a quarter of 
apint of cream, four ounces of butter 
and a little flour; stir it over the fire till 
the butter is melted: then put the 
chickens in again, add some grated 


a Fe 


CHI 


lemon-peel, pounded mace, lemon-juice, 
and mushroum powder. Shake all over 
the fire, and serve very hot. 


Cuickens (Cold) Fried. — Cut the | 


chicken into quarters, and rub each 
quarter with yolk of egg. Mix some 
bread-crumbs with pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
grated lemon-peel and shred parsiey, 
cover the chickens with this, and fry 
them. Thicken some gravy with flour, 
and add to it cayenne pepper, mush- 
room-powder or catsup, and a little le- 
mon-juice. Serve the chickens with this 
gravy. 

Cuickens en Friteau. * —— Cut the 
chickens in pieces and put them into a 
marinade of sweet oil, lemon-juice, vine- 
gar, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and 
sliced onions. In about two hours drain 
them, sprinkle them with flour, and fry 
them. Place them on a dish, with the 
slices of onion on the top, and fried eggs 
above them. Make a sauce of oil, lemon, 
parsley, and tarragon chopped, salt, 
pepper and garlic, 

Cuicken Fritters. — Make a_ batter 
with four eggs, some new milk, and rice- 
flour; to this, add a pint of cream, pow- 
der-sugar, candied lemon-peel cut smail, 
fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white 
parts of a roasted chicken shred small ; 
set all these together on a stove, and stir 
‘well for some time ; when done, take it 
off, roll out the mixture, cut it into frit- 
ters, and fry them; strew sugar on a 
dish, lay in the fritters, strew sugar over, 
and serve them hot. 

Cuickens (Galantine of).— Bone a 
nice plump chicken very carefully, cut 
some ham and truffles into slips of an 
equal thickness, and as near of a length 
as possible; cut the chicken also into 
fillets, and add a few slices of veal; form 
a sort of bed of these in the skin of the 
chicken, so that when cut, the slices may 
be chequered; season with all sorts of 
spices; close the skin, form it of a pro- 
per shape; sew up the back, and stew 
it, covered with slices of bacon, and pars- 
ley, onions, thyme, a bay-leat, a clove, a 
little spice, carrots, two onions, and some 
slices of veal; then mix a little broth, 
and a small quantity of calf’s-foot jelly. 
When the jelly has boiled an hour take 
it off, and letit coolin the liquor. If this 
dish is served hot, pour over it any brown 
sauce ; it is, however, better served cold ; 
take some of the liquor, beat the whites 
of two or three eges, and mix them with 
the cold jelly, after having skimmed off 
the fat; then put the whole over the fire 
again, and stir till the liquor is white ; 
then let it boil gently; next take the 
jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, with 
a cover and fire over it; when quite 


(154) 


CH1 


clear, strain it through a cloth, and let 
cool, to be used when wanted. If served 
cole more pepper and salt must be 
used. eee | ae 
Cuicxens @ la Genoise.*—Bone two 
plump chickens, and fill them with a 
stuffing made of fat livers, six anchovies, 
truffles and small onions, all chopped 
very small. Soak them in oii wif. 
lemon-juice 3 finish them in veal-gravy, 
and add some morels and artichoke 
bottoms. pone 
CxHickENs au Gratin.—Cut cold roast- 
ed chicken into pieces, and simmer them 
for a quarter of an hour in a few spoons- 
ful ef cullis, balf a glass of white wine, 
butter, chopped parsley, shalots, mush- 
rooms, and season with salt and pepper. 
When done, place on a dish, with half 
the sauce, and bread crumbs under 
them; set the dish over the fire till it 
catches at bottom, then serve with the 
rest of the sauce. ’ 
Cuicxens (Grenade of). — Line a 
mould, ribbed like a melon, with thin 
slices of bacon; cut some fillets of 
chickens ; lard half of them with bacon, 
and the others with truffles; lay them 
alternately in the ribs of the mould, and 
lace between each a previously cooked 
amb’s sweetbread ; cover the whole with 
a farce fine; puta salpicon in the cen- 
tre ; cover that also with the farce ; stick 
it with forcemeat, and put the monld 
either in the oven or the éazn marie. 
When done, turn it out; dry the larded 
slices with the salamander, and glaze 
them; when of a light brown, uncover 
the rest, glaze them slightly, and serve 
with espagnole, aa ag as 
Cuicken Haslets.*—Cut a cold roast 
chicken into pieces, and put them upon 
skewers like a haslet; dip each into egg, 
beaten up with salt, pepper, parsley, 
and onions, chopped; strew bread- 
crumbs over; dip them in butter again, 
bread them a second time, and broil; 
baste them occasionally with a little oil, 
Serve them with or without sauce. 
Cuicxens Histories —Prepare chick- 
ens as for roasting, and having given 
them a turn or two over the fire in a 
little butter, with the addition of lemon- 
juice to preserve their whiteness; take 
them out and wipe them very clean ; 
peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in 
thin slices, 50as to preserve the rings, 
of which take two or three, dip them in 
white of egg, place them on the breasts, 
in such forms as you may think proper ; 
lay in these rings preparations of any 
colour (see Colours), your please, basting 
the chickens with white of egz to make 
the colour adhere properly; then cover 
them with thin slices of bacon, and braise 








CHI (155 ) CHI 


them for an hour; take off the bacon 
éarefully; add cullis to the sauce, skim 
and strain it over the chickens. 

Cuicsens, Horly of.*—Singe, and cut 
up two fat chickens the same as for a 
fricassee ; put the pieces into a jar; sea- 
son them with salt, pepper, parsley, 
seallious, two bay-leaves, and the juice 
of two lemons; wash and peel a dozen 
large onions, as near of the same size as 
they can be; cut them intoslices of equal 
thickness, making use only of the outer 
rings. About half an hour before they 
are wanted, drain your pieces of chicken, 
sprinkle them well with flour, and put 
them into a moderately heated pan; 
when they are of a proper colour, an 
sufficiently done, lay them on a clean 
cloth to drain: then make your pan very 
hot, and having well floured the onion 
rings, fry them also of a good colour; 
drain them on a cloth; dish the chickens 
en buisson, with the onions on the top, 
and a hot aspie underneath. 
~Cuicnen @ l’Indienne. *—Fry some 
sliced onions in lard, with a little flour; 
when of a nice colour, take them cut 
carefully, and keep them hot; in the 
same lard fry a chicken, blanched and 
cut up; doit of a good colvur, and 
then add some stock ; season it with sait, 
allspice, cayenne pepper, and turmeric ; 
when the chicken is done enough, put in 
the onions, and let ali buil together for 
two or three minutes. Serve some plain 
boiled rice on a separate dish, to eat 
with it. 

Cnicxens @ Ul’ Ivorre. — Pull out the 
breast-bones of a couple of chickens, and 
then fill them with butter, lemon-juice, 
salt and pepper, well mixed together ; 
bind up the chickens, and put them into 
a stewpan, lined with bacun ; cover the 
breasts with slices of lemon and bacon, 
pour some poéle on them. When they 
‘tave stewed for halfan hour, drain, un- 
‘bind, and serve them with velouté or 
béchameltle. 

CuicKens @ la Jardiniére.*—Soak your 
chickens (having trussed and cut each in 
half), in hot butter, parsley, scallions, 
garlic, mushrooms, (all chopped), salt 
and pepper; make as much of these ad- 
here to the chickens as you possibly 
can 3; cover them with bread crumbs, and 
broil them, basting frequently with the 
yemainder of the butter. When of the 
proper colour, make a sauce with a little 
gravy, three spoonsful of verjuice, salt, 
pepper, chopped parsiey, and the yolks 
of two eggs; thicken this, and pour it 
over the chickens when ready to serve. 

Crickens 7z Jelly, or au Pere Douillet. 
—Lard a couple of chickens with bacon 
rolled in spices and sweet herbs, and boil 


them with a knuckle of veal, halfa pint 
of white wine, cloves, parsley, shalots, 
thyme, bay-leaf, and coriander; when 
done, take out the chickens, and letthem 
cool; then skim and strain the liquor, 
and boil it a short time, with a lemon 
sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it; when 
that is done, strain it through a napkin. 
Place the chickens in a pan just big 
enough to hold them; wash them over 
with white of egg, garnish them with 
sprigs of parsley, and colour tiem if you 


think proper. Let the chickens lay with © 


the breasts downwards, and cover them 
with the jelly. When they are wanted, 
place the pan a minute in hot water, and 
turn the chickens over gently. 

Curcxens en Lézard.* —Draw and 
singe two fine chickens, take off the 
drumsticks and pinions, Jeaving the 
skin ; split them open through the back, 
bone them entirely, and lay them on a 
cloth; fill the inside with a farce, made 
with ready dressed fowl], truffles, cham- 
pignons, tongue @ l’écarlute, and calf’s 
udder, cut into dice; form the chickens 
with the farce into the shape of lizards, 
as follows: the skin of the rump make 
the tail, the thighs make the hind, and 
the wings the fore-legs, the breast torms 
the back, and the head is composed of a 
truffle cut like that of a lizard. Linea 
stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the 
lizards, carefully preserving their shape, 
and stew them, covered with a thick 
paper and the lidof thestewpan. When 
done, drain, and set them to cool. Place 
them on your dish; glaze and decorate 
them with small omelets, either white, 
green, red or yellow; serve them on a 
green magnonnaise, and garnish the dish 
with jelly. 

Cuicken Loaf.*—Bone a chicken very 
carefully, and fiJl it with a ragotit of 
sweetbreads; make itas near as possible 
the original form ; tie it upin bacon, and 
wrap acloth round it. Boil it in some 
white wine, stock, with sweet herbs.- 
Serve it with espagnole. 

‘Cuicxens @& la Marengo.*—Cut up a 
roasted chicken, and fry it in olive oil, 
with salt, mushrooms, and sweet herbs 3 
when of a proper colour, take out the 
chicken; place it in a dish, and pour over 
some well reduced sauce Jtalkenne ; 
garnish with eggs or crusts fried in oil. 

Cuickens @ la Mariée. — Take the 
bones from two small chickens, and fill 
them with a farce made of fat livers. 
parsley, shalots, basil, (all chopped 
small), grated bacon, pepper and sali. 
Soak them for some time in oil, then 
wrap them in thin slices of bacon, veal 
and ham, over that, double-buttered 
paper. Stew them on a slow fire till 





j 
‘4 
P 
i 


CET 
done. Take off all wrappers, and serve 
with zonparezl sauce. 


Cricxens @ la Marmotie.—Boil some 


earrots and parsnips, cut into shapes, 
with some small onions, in a little broth ; 
in the mean time cut some mushrooms 
and pickled cucumbers into dice, and 
stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, pars- 
ley, cloves, stock, salt and pepper ; when 
they have boiled slowly for a little time, 
add a spoonful of cullis, and the carrots, 
&c.; boilthem up together, and serve 
over roasted chickens. 

Curcxens Marinés.*—Cut your chick- 
ens, and soak them in stock, vinegar, 
or verjuice, salt and pepper; place them 
on hot ashes for half an hour. Beat 
three whites of eggs to a strong froth, 
and then dip in each piece of chicken ; 
flour it, and fry them of a nice colour. 

Cuickens Maroguin.* — Choose two 
fine fat chickens, and give them a few 
turns over the fire in a little oil; let 
them cool, and dry them thoroughly. 
Make a stuffing with the livers, truffles, 


streaked bacon, butter, salt, pepper, 


herbs, &c. al! chopped small, unite them 
with the yolks of two eggs; fill the 
chickens with this, and put some under 
the thighs and wings; place slices of 
bacon over it, so that the stuffing may 
remain in its proper place. Put two 
large slices of bacen over that, wrap them 
in buttered paper, and roast them. You 
may serve them, either with cray-fish, 
butter, or blond. 

Curckens en Matelote.*—Blanch about 
a dozen small white onions, and then 
throw them into cold water to take off 
the skin. Cut two carrots and a parsnip 
imto pieces, three inches long, pare 
them to an equal size; prepare the fol- 
lowirg:—a simall piece of butter, two 
pinches of flour, a glass of white wine, 
the same of stock, and brown them; put 
the carrots, parsnip, and onions into it, 
with the addition of parsley, scallions, 
two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, _ basil, 
half a clove of garlick, pepper, and salt; 
boil these gently. for half an hour. Take 
one large, or two small chickens, set 
them on the fire a minute or two, and 
then cut each in four; put them into the 
above ragoiit and boil for an hour. When 
very little sauce remains, take off the 
fat, and add a chopped anchovy, anda 
few capers. 

Second way.*—Cut a couple of chick- 
ens into quarters, and put them intoa 
stewpan lined with bacon and small 
onions; after they have been in ashort 
time, add to them an eel cut in pieces, a 
small fish, and a dozen eray-fish, with 
salt, pepper, bay-leaves, and morels; 
moisten the whole with equal quantities 


( 156 ) 


CHI 


of stock and white wine; cover the stew- 
pan, and let it stand over a moderate 
firefor three hours.  — idl SAOAR 

Place all the pieces on a dish, and gar- 
nish it with cray-fish and fried crusts, 
put alternately, and pour the sauce 
Over it. : phen 

Cuicxens @ la St. Menehoult.*—Put 
twe chickens into a stewpan with some 
butter, a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, 
parsley, scallion, a clove of garlic, 
thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; stew it 
gently, and let the sauce adhere to the 
chickens ; then soak them in eggs beaten, 
cover them with pread-crumbs, dip them 
into butter, bread-crumbs again, and 
broil them. Men Ee 

Cuicken Milk.*—Boil half a pint of 
water; beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with an ounce of powder-sugar, a little 
orange: flower water, and salt; mix these 
well, until the egg begins to whiten, then 
add the boiling water, stirring it very 
quick, and drink it as not as possible. 

Cuickens in a Minute.*—Cuta chicken 
in pieces, and put itina stewpan witha 
little butter ; add to it some mushrooms, 
parsley, scallions, sprinkle flour over, 
and shake them}; moisten it with stock 
or water, and white wine; when it has 
boiled once, take it from the fire and put 
in the yolks of one or two eggs, anda 
little vinegar or lemon-juice. — 

Cricxens a la Napolitaine.*—Takea 
cold fricassee of chickens, which must 
be pretty thick, and mix it with some 
macaroni, boiled in a little stock, and 
drained ; put to ita little butter, a ladle- 
ful of sauce tournée, some grated Parme- 
san and Gruyere cheeses, and coarse 
pepper; stir it well, and then place a 
thick layer in astewpan, put the pieces 
ofchicken on it, cover them with the 
sauce and macaroni, strew bread-crumbs 
very thickly over the whole, wash it 
with melted butter, bread it again, and 
bake it. 

Cuickens aux Nouilles—Are dressed 
in the same way as @ 7’ Ivotre, and served 
with nowdlles. eee 

CHICKENS aqua petits Gufs composées. 
—Braise a couple of chickens cut into 
quarters, and when they are done, skim. 
and strain the sauce, and thicken it with 
the yolks of three eggs. In the means 
time, soak bread-crumbs in cullis, and 
when quite thick, put them in a mortar 
with shalot, beef-marrow, and the yolks of 
four or five hard eggs, pepper and salt ; 
mix in the yolks of two raw eggs well, 
and make these ingredients into little 
balls, roll them in flour, and give them 
a boil in some stock. Serve them with 
the sauce as above, upon the chickens. 

CuIcKENS with Onions.* — Put some 





CHI 
slices of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of 
small onions, in a stewpan; when the 
latter are half done, pour over thema 
pint of stock, a little white wine, fennel, 
parsley, &c.;\ the whole being nearly 
done, put in a couple of pale roasted 


chickens, stew them about a quarter of 


an hour, and then-serve them with the 
sauce reduced. 


CuHickens and young Oysters.*—Fill- 


your chickens with young oysters cut 
small, truffles, parsley, and spices, and 
roast them. Blanch about two dozen 
young oysters, and toss them up insome 
melted butter, with chopped herbs and 
olive oil. When they have-been on the 
fire a quarter of an hour, add a little 
white wine and half a glass of good stock, 
thicken it over the fire for another quar- 
ter of an hour, and when the chickens 
are ready to serve, pour the sauce on 
them, and garnish the dish with oysters 
and some'lemon. 

_ Cutcxen Panada.—Boila chicken ina 
quart of water until nearly done; then 
skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound 
it with a little of the liquor it was boiled 
in toa thick paste; season it with salt, 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel; boil it up all 
together for a few minutes. 

CHIcKENS au Parmesan.— Braise a 
couple of chickens as usual, and when 
nearly done, add to them some stock, 
white wine, cullis, and butter, season 
according to taste. When snfficiently 
done, strain some of the sauce into your 
dish, and grate into it Parmesan cheese; 
place the chickens in this, and pour over 
the remainder of the sance; grate more 
Parmesan on, and bake it. 

CuHicKkeNS aux Pavies.—Fry two or 
three fat chickens trussed quite round, in 
butter for a minute or two; lay a few 
slices of lemon on the breasts, wrap each 
in bacon and buttered paper, and roast 
them. Cut some pickled nectarines in 
slices, taking off the skin; soak them a 
little while in water, and then warm 
them in some gravy and cullis mixed to- 
gether, and serve them with the roasted 
chickens. 

Cuickens @ la Perle.—Split and bone 
two chickens, leaving the legs; fill each 
piece with a salpicon made of sweet- 
breads, mushrooms, scraped bacon, 
parsley, shalots, seasoned with sa.t, and 
pepper, and roll it up like a pear-shaped 
pearl, making the leg the point; sew 
them up, and braise them with veal, 
bacon, stock, a glass of white wine, two 
slices of peeled lemon, parsley, half a 
clove of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, two 
cloves, pepper, and salt; when done, 
take out the chickens, skim and strain 


( 157 ) 


the sauce, put alittle cullis in, and re~ 


ae: 4 | 


duce it; and serve it with the chickens. 
Cuicxen Pie.—Cut a couple of chick- 
ens into pieces, and season each piece 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace 
Line a dish with puff-paste, and put a 


layer of forcemeat on it; then put in the 


chickens, with some sweetbreads cut in 
pieces, and seasoned ham sliced thin, 
truffles, morels, artichoke-bottoms quar- 
tered, the yolks of hard eggs, chopped. 
fresh mushrooms, cock’s combs, and as- 
paragus ; add alittle water, cover the pie 
with puff-paste, and bake it. When done, 
pour in some rich gravy, thickened with 
flour and butter. if the pie is to be 
eaten cold, the truffles, morels, and 
mushrooms must be omitted. 


Second way.—Put half a dozen small: 


chickens in a dish with puff-paste, as 


above, with the marrow of two bones 
rolled in a batter of eggs, a bit of butter: 


rolled in sweet herbs, a dozen hard eggs, 


and two dozen savory balls; cover and 


bake as before. Pour in a quart of gravy 
when done. r 

CHIcKEN P2e (Sweet).—Having broken 
the bones of four chickens, cut them in 
pieces, season them with mace, cinna- 
mon, and salt, and put them into a dish 
with the yolks of four hard eggs cut in 
quarters, five artichoke-bottoms ; of sun- 
raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringo- 
root, marrow, and currants, eight ounces 
of each; four slices of lemon (peeled), 
and fifty balls of forcemeat; cover the 
whole with rich pufi-paste, and bake. 
Boil a pint of white wine with the yolks 


ef two eggs; sweeten and put it to the’ 


pie when baked. Serve it quite hot. 


Cuicxen and Ham Pie.—Season some: 


slices of boiled ham, and lay them on a 


puff- paste about half an inch thick; then: 


season some pieces of chicken, ané@ place 
them on the ham, with the yolks of some 
hard eggs, a few truffles and morels, 
cover these with more slices of ham, 
seasoned as before, put some gravy in, 
anda puff-crust on the top, and bake it 
thoroughly. If te be eaten hot, more 
gravy may be added when done. | 

Cuicxen and Parsley Pie.—Skin and 
cut upa chicken, season the pieces with 
salt; pick and scald some parsley, and 
when squeezed quite dry, cut it, and lay 
it in the pie dish; then the pieces of 
chicken, parsley and chicken again, un- 
til the dish is full. Put new milk nearly 
to the top of the dish, cover and bake It. 
When done, take out some of the milk, 
and add in its place a pint of scalded 
cream. 

CuicKkens @ la Pierrette—Take half a 
dozen equal sized chicken wings; lar 


a 


CHI 
two of them with bacon, two with truffles, 
or any kind of root you please, and the 
remaining two with ham; braise them 
with a few slices of bacon, some carrots, 
sweet herbs, consommeé, and half a glass 
of white wine. When done, take them 
out, and glaze three of them; arrange 
them on a dish, with the sauce, (skim- 
med, strained, and properly reduced 
with a little cullis) under them. 

. Caickens entre deux Plats.—Lard two 

ehickens, partly with ham, and partly 
with bacon, stuff, and pvt them into a 
deep dish, with slices of bacon, pepper, 
salt, cloves, parsley, carrots, and pars- 
nips, onions, peeled-lemon sliced, and 
half a glass of white wine; cover them 
with another deep dish, and place them 
over the fire ; let them simmer till done ; 
skim, strain, and add some butter and 
flour to the sauce, and serve it with the 
chickens, 

Caickens @ la Poéle.* —Cut_ your 
chickens in half, and do them over the fire 
with a bit of butter, garlic, two shalots, 
mushrooms, parsley, scallions, all minc- 
ed, a little flour, and a glass of white 
wine, the same of stock, salt and pepper, 
reduce it to a thick sauce; take off the 
fat and serve. 

Cuicxen and Ham Potted.— Season 
some pieces of chicken, with mace, 
cloves, and pepper, and bake them for 
about three hours in a close covered pan 
with some water; then pound them quite 
small, moistening either with melted 
butter, or the liquor they were baked in. 
Pound also some ham, and put this with 
the chicken in alternate layers, in pot- 
ting pans, press them down tight, and 
cover them with butter. 

Cuicken Puffs.—Mince the breast of 
a chicken, some lean ham, half an an- 
chovy, a little parsley, shalots, and 
jemon-peel, season these with pepper, 
salt, cayenne, and beaten mace; set 
them on the fire a few minutes, ina little 
béchamelle ; roll out some _ puff-paste 
thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay 
in each some of the above mixture ; turn 
the paste over, and fry them in boiling 
lard, and serve them on fried parsley. 

Cuickens Pulled. —Cut off the legs, 
rump, and side-bones of a cold chicken, 
and pull all the white parts (without the 
skin) into shreds; toss them up in a 
little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, 
pepper, salt and lemon juice, stir them 
together till the butter is melted; then 
fay itin a dish, place the rump in the 
middle, and the legs at each end, having 
previously seasoned and broiled them. 

Cuickens en Redingotes.* —Cut the 
chickens into quarters, take out all the 


( 158 ) 


‘wrapped in buttered paper, and 


CHI 


bones; make a farce of fat livers, veal, 
parsley, pounded bacon, salt, peppers 


_and the yolks of two or three eggs}; put. 
some of this upon each limb, put several 


of them together, cover them with the 
same, wrap them in paper, and bake 
in a moderate oven. When done, take 
off the paper very carefully, so as not to 
remove the furce from the chicken, place 
it on a hot dish, and pour blond over it. 
Cuicxens @ la Reine.—Cut all the 
meat from some cold roasted chickens, 
which may have been served before, and 
take out the breast-bone; mince the 
meat, and make it into a farce with 
cream, suet, grated bacon; parsley, sha- 
lots, pepper, salt, nutmeg; unite these 
with the yolks of four eggs, stuff the 
chickens with this, as if they were whole; 
smooth them with a knife dipped in white 
of eggs ; cover them with bread crumbs, 
and bake them. When of a nice brown 
colour, pour sauce @ Ja reine over, and 
serve. ) 
Cuickens au Réveil. * —Stutf two 
chickens with the livers, parsley, scal- 
lions, two tarragon leaves, all chopped, 
and mixed together with butter, and 
having parboiled them in a little fat or 
butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, 
and roast them. Inthe meantime, put 
the butter in which the chickens were 
parboiled, into a stewpan, with two car- 
rots, two onions sliced, garlic, cloves, 
thyme, basil; stew, but do not Jet them 
be coloured; putin a giass of white wine, 
and another of stock, and stew them to- 
gether for half an hour, and then strain 
it. Then take some salad herbs, such 
as tarragon, pimperne], chives, chervil, 
and cress, of each.according to your taste, 
so as altogether to make half a handful ; 
chop them very small, and infuse them 
in the above sauce, on hot ashes, for half 
an hour. Then strain it, press the herbs 
quite dry, and add to ita bit of.butter, 
worked with: flour, salt, and pepper, 


thicken, and serve it with the chickens. 


CuicKxens Roasted.—When your chick - 
ens are properly trussed, put them down 
to a clear fire, and let them roast for a 
quarter of an hour, froth them well, and 
serve with gravy, or parsley and butter. 

Second way.—Put the chicken between 
slices of bacon, fasten the feet to the 


spit, and baste with its own gravy.. 


Serve with cress round the dish, season- 
ed with salt and vinegar. The chicken 
when covered with bacon. phot be 
if re- 
quired to be ofa pale colour, kept on till 
roasted ; if not, remove the paper about 
five minutes before it is done, and finish 
it before a clear quick fire. . 








CEI 


_ Cuickens @ la Romaine.*—Lard a fine 
fillet of veal, make a hole at one end 
large enough to contain a small stuffed 
chicken, sew it up, and putit into a stew- 
pan, with a few slices of veal and ham, 
same parsley, shalots, two cloves, basil, 
Stock and a little pepper; simmer it over 
a slow fire, when done, skim and strain 
the sauce, reduce it toa glaze, and spread 
it Over the fillet of veal, with a feather. 

hen put some cullis to the remains of 
the glaze, and strain it over the meat, 
and serve. 

Crickens aw Romestic.—Cut as great 
a number of small slices of fillets of meat 
from a tender rabbit as you possibly can, 
and soak in oil, or melted butter, with 
chopped shalots, truffles, mushrooms, 
and parsley; season them with pepper, 
nutmeg, and salt ; take the breast-bones 
from two chickens, so as not to break the 
skins, and fill them with the above, and 
sew it in; then having given them a turn 
in butter over the fire, wrap them in 
bacon and paper, and roast them. Chop 
up the bones and remains of the rabbit, 
and set them to simmer with some poul- 
try legs and pinions, halfa glass of white 
wine, and three spoonsful of cullis; 
skim this sauce well, and strain it over 
the chickens. 

Cuicxen Salad.*—Cut cold roast 
fowl into small long pieces, taking off 
the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at 
the bottom of a salad-bowl, put the 
chicken on it with all sorts of salading, 
gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, an- 
chevies, cut in slips, season: with the 
usual salad dressing. Instead of a let- 
tuce, parsley and scallions, cut small, 
may be used. | 

Cuicken Salad a la Magnonnaise.*— 
Trim the fillets of six fat chickens, toss 
them in a little butter; then drain them 
in a napkin, press them lightly between 
two saucepan lids, and let them cool; 
in the meantime, dress the twelve fillets 
mignons @ la Conti, with truffles or 
tongue @ /’ecarlate, place them ina dish, 
entting them in the form ofa horse-shoe, 
then let themcool. Cut six lettuces 
smal!, season them in the usual way, and 
Jay the salad on a table-dish, form it 
into a sort of crown, upon which arrange 
your fillets alternately, first a large one, 
then one, @ /a Conti. Surround the 
whole with a border of aspic jelly. Pour 
into the centre of your crown a magnon- 
naise ravigotte. ' 

Cuickxens Salad, a la Reine.* —Roast 
four fine plump chickens, and when cold 
cut them in pieces; toss them up in an 
earthen pan with salt, a mignonnette, oil, 
vinegar, parsley, an onion or shalot cut 
small, cover them with paper, and leave 


( 159 ) 


CHI 


them in this for some hours. Boil eight 
eggs (as nearly the same size as possibie) 
hard, and cool them in taking off the 
shells. Wash six lettuces, take off the 
leaves, keeping the hearts quite small ; 
cut the leaves as fine as you can, season 
them as for common salad, and lay them 
on a table-dish; then having drained 
the chickens, and separated them from 
the parsley, é&c. lay the legs on the let- 
tuce leaves en couronne, inthe centre of 
which place the wings; on the legs put 
the rumps and two of the breasts ; on 
these the fillets as close as possible, lay- 
ing them alternately flat and upright ; 
and on the top of the fillets the two 
breasts which remain ; be careful in keep- 
ing this dish as high and upright as pos- 
sible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight 
pieces, put thei round the dish asa bor- 
der, and between every piece set upright 
alettuce heart; and on the top of all 
lay the half of an egg, with a lettuce 
heart in the middle. Then mix together 
a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon 
and pimpernet! leaves, scalded, and shred 
small,salt, pepper, oil, ravigotte vinegar, 
and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalea- 
mate the whole well, and pour it over 
the salad. 

CuickeNn Sausages.—Make two farces, 
one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of 
fow), calf’s udder, marrow, baked onions, 
parsley, shalots, mushrooms, all chopped 
very fine, mixed together with a spuon- 
ful of brandy, a little cream, and the 
yolks of five eggs; make the other of 
scalded sweetbread, livers, mushrooms, 
season both with spices, salt and pepper. 
Split a couple of chickens through the 
backbone, and layin each half, some of 
the first mentioned farce, and on that 
some of the second, roll them up, tie, 
and braise them with a glass of white 
wine, the same of stock and some bacon. 
When done, let them cool; then put the 
rest of the farce round them, wrap them 
in caul, dip them in whites of eggs, strew 
bread crumbs over, and bake them. 
Strain, and mix some cullis and lemon- 
juice with the liquor in which the 
chickens were braised, and serve it with 
them. 

CuickEN Scalloped.—Mince some cold 
chicken, and heat it up with a little 
cream, pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg} 
put this into scallop-shells, and cover 
them with bread-covers; put some butter 
over, and brown them. 

CuicKxens 22 the Scotch manner.—Cut 
your chickens into quarters, put them 
into a saucepan, with only just water 
enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley, 
some chopped parsley, and a little mace, 
cover aa close down, when it boils, add 


CHI 


six eggs well beaten ; when the chickens 
are done, take out the parsley, and serve 
them in a deep dish with the sauce. 


. Cuicxens, (Souflé of).— Mince the | 


white part of cold roasted chickens, 
pound it in a mortar, with some bécha- 
melle, butter, pepper, salt, and the 
volks of four eggs ; when well beat, strain 
it through a tammy; then beat the 
whites of five eggs to a solid froth, mix 
it. with the former, and put the whole 


into a deep dish, or raised pie-crust, and 


bake it in a moderate oven. 

_ Cuicxen Stewed.—Cut a carp with a 
fine roe into pieces, cut a chicken also 
into pieces, and put them into a stewpan 
together, with a slice of ham, some 
mushrooms, parsley, scallions, thyme, 
bay leaf, basil, two cloves, a small piece 
ef butter. When these have simmered 
together a little while, add some stock, 
‘a giass of wine, a little cullis, flour, pep- 
per and salt, boil them until the chicken 
is done, then take out the carp, (leaving 
the roe), the ham and parsley, and put 
in their place a chopped anchovy, and a 
few capers. Place the chicken on a dish 
“mixed with the onionsand roe. Take the 
fat from the sauce, and sirain it over 
the whole. 

Cuicxens Stuffed. — Boil a pint of 
“milk with a handful of bread crumbs, 
until very thick ; when cold, beat it up 
in a mortar, with chopped parsley, and 
onions, thyme, a bay-leaf, butter, the 
yolks of four eggs, pepper and salt, stuff 
two chickens with this, sew it in, and 
roast the chickens between rashers of 
bacon. Serve with the following sauce: 
‘a hit of butter rolled in flour, some stock, 
vinegar, achopped anchovy, a few capers, 
salt and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. 
. Cuicxens and Tarragon.* —Blanch 
some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an 
hour, then throw them into cold water, 
“and when well drained, chop them very 
small, and mix a fourth part of it with 
the minced livers of two chickens, a bit 
of butter, salt and pepper, and stuff the 
“two chickens, drawn and trussed, withit, 
_put them into a stewpan with some but- 
ter, and dothem up init; then lay some 
bacon on the breasts, wrap them in 
paper, and roast them. Inthe mean- 
time put the rest of the tarragon into a 
saucepan, with a bit of butter worked 
inte flour, the yolks of two eggs, half a 
_glass of meat gravy, two spoonsful of 
stock, a little vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Thicken it over the fire, but do not boil 
“it, lest the eggs turn. Serve this sauce 
over the chickens. 
Cuickens @ /a Tartare. * —Having 

prepared your chicken, parboil, and cut 
itin half; break the bones, and soak it 


( 160 ) 


e 


CHI 


in melted fresh butter, with parsley, 
scallions, mushrooms, and garlic, cut up 
small, pepper, and salt. Dip it again 
in butter, bread it, and broil on a 
clear fire. It may be served either dry, 
or with any clear sance you think proper. 
Second way.*—Split and break, and 
take out the bones of two young chickens, 
press them into a round form, season, 
and wash them over with yolk of egg; 
cover.them with bread crumbs, flatten 
them a little, and broil over a clear fire. 
Serve them with sauce Ifalienne ad la 
Tartare, or veal gravy. 1 tak he 
Cuickens (Mince) in Timbale.—Make 
a batter with two spoensful of flour, 
some grated nutmeg, four eggs stirred 
in, one at a time, and some new milk; 
it must not be too thin ; fry itas for 
pancakes, but lay it very thin in the pan, 
and colour it on one side only; cut each 
(except two or three) in half; Jay a 
whole one at the bottom of a buttered 
mould, and the others round the sides; 
nearly fill up the mould with a thick 
mince of chicken, turn the ends of the 
pancakes over it, and lay another whole 
one at the top. Bake it in a moderate 
oven, and when done, turn it on a dish, 
and serve with good gravy. pa 
Cuickens and Tomata Sauce.*—Mix 
together, in a stewpan,.a little butter, 
salt, pepper, Iemon-juice, and grated 
nutmeg, a sufficient quantity to put in 
two chickens; tie it in, and lay thin 
slices of lemon on the breast of the chick- 
ens, and lay them in a stewpan lined 
with thin rashers of bacon; cover them 
with the same, and stew them with fire 
above and below for three quarters of an 
hour; when done, drain them in a cloth; 
untie them, and serve with tomata 
sauce. , é, 
Cuickens and Tongues.—Boil half a 
dozen young chickens, a cauliflower, 
la and six pigs’ tongues, peeled. 
lace the cauliflower in the centre of a 
dish, the chickens round it, and beyend 
them the tongues, with the roots out- 
ward; lay the spinach in small heaps 
between each tongue, Garnish the whole 
with toasted bacon. The cauliflower 
should be boiled in milk and water, and 
kept quite whole. 
Cuicken and Trufiies.* —Wash and 
pare some truffles, and turn them over 
the fire with a bit of butter and halfa 
pound of grated bacon. Fill a chicken 
with this mixture, and truss it so that 
none of the stuffing can escape; tie a 
slice of bacon and some paper on the 
breast; roast it, and serve with truffle 
sauce. ' 
Cuickens d@ la Turgue.— Boil some 


(rice in good consommé, until properly 





CHI 


swelled; then season it, and fill two 
chickens with half of it (have a sufficient 
quantity to stuff them quite full). Wrap 
them in bacon and buttered paper, and 
roast them for an hour; mix one spoon- 
ful of cream and four of béchamelle with 
the remainder of the rice ; season it well 
and cover the chickens with it, an 
serve them. 

Cuicxens with Vegetables.* — Cut 
some young and tender artichokes in 
Noah te take out the choke, and cut off 
the ends of the green leaves; blanch 
and boil them in stock, with slices of 
lemon; when nearly done, drain them, 
and do them up in astewpan, with some 
butter, parsley, scallions, and shalots, 
stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fen- 
nel; reduce this sauce, and having 
boiled or pale-roasted two chickens, 
pour it over, and place the artichokes 
round them. Instead of artichokes, any 
of the following vegetables may be used: 
chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucum- 
bers, French beans, morels, pease, or 
salsify. : 
_ Caicxens @ la Vénitienne.*—Parboil 
two or three fat chickens in some stock, 
with # little butter, and having cut 
them up, lay them in a stewpan lined 
with slices of bacon ; surround them with 
well blanched parsley roots, and put in 
a bunch of green parsley. Cover the 
pieces of chicken with slices of veal, salt 
and pepper, and moisten with consommeé; 
let it stand over a moderate fire, and 
when half done, add a glass of white 
champagne. When done, arrange the 
pieces ona dish, and piace the parsley 
roots and leaves round ; reduce the sauce, 
and pourit, with Seville orange-juice, on 
the whole. You may omit the wine, if 
you think proper ; but roots of any sort 
you please must then be added. 

Cuicxens @ la Villageoise.—Take out 
the breast-bones of a couple of chickens, 
and truss them as for boiling; lard them 
on the breast with sprigs of parsley. and 
on the sides with hacen; roast them ; 
baste with lard to keep the parsley crisp. 
In the meanwhile prepare a ragoit of 
cucumbers; split open the breasts of the 
chickens when they are ready, and put in 
the ragofit, Serve with cullis under them. 

Cuicken Water.— Take a cock, or 
large fowl, flay it; then bruise it with a 
hammer, and put it iatoa gallon of water, 
witha crust of bread. Let it boil half 
away, and strain it off. 

Cuickxens (Fillets of) a la Béchamelle 
Pannée.—Cut off the hind parts (the legs 
and rumps) wrap the breasts in buttered 
papers and roast them; when cold, cut 


them in fillets and put them into a dish 


( 161) 


CHI 


with béchameille sauce; strew bread- 
crumbs on them, and baste with melted 
butter; colour it with a salamander, or 
in the oven. 

’ Cuickxen (Fillets of) in Italian Salad, 
—Cut the fillets of one or two chickens, 
each into three thin slices. Shred a 
cabbage, a lettuce, and some celery small; 
slice some cucumbers, and mix them all 
with a little pickled chervil, and put 
them in a salad-dish, arrange the fillets 
on these inthe shape of astar. Garnish 
them with two hard eggs, half a dozen an- 
chovies shred small, a few French beans, 
a cauliflower boiled, and a sliced cu- 
cumber, and dress it with Italian salad 
sauce. 

Cuickens (Fillets of) in Savory Jelly. 
—Cut the meat of two roasted chickens 
into thin fillets, the size of a shilling ; 
prepare some savory or aspic jelly, by 
putting the whites of four eggs in a stew- 
pan, abont three spoonsful of tarragon 
vinegar, and a little salt ; beat them up 
with a fork, pour two quarts of good 
consommeé, stir it over the fire, continu- 
ally, till it boils; then take out the spoon 
and let it simmer till reduced to half. 
Run it gently through a jelly-bag, throw 
in a little chopped tarragon and chervil ; 
half fill a mould with the jelly, and when 
nearly set, place the chicken neatly 
round, and when quite set, fill it up. 
When the whole is quite stiff, dip the 
mould in warm water a minute, and turn 
out the jelly. 

Cuickens (TJurbans of Fillets of) a la 
Sultane.—Cover a large piece of bread 
with thin slices of bacon ; place it in the 
middle of a dish, and surround it to the 
height of three inches, with a farce @ 
quenelles that has been kept in ice, stick 
in this, at equal distances, larded file/s 
megnons of chickens; cover the dish 
with an earthen pan as close as possible, 
and bake it; when done, glaze the filets, 
and make a small hole in the farce be- 
tween each filet to receive a cock’s kid- 
ney, which must be very white, so as to 
resemble a pearl. Take the bread from 
the centre, drain the fat off with crumb 
of bread, and put in its place a blanquette 
of chickens. If truffles are in season, 
garnish with a ball made out of a truffle, 
and the perle or kidney 3 and then écol- 
lops, with truffles, in the middle. 

Cuickens (Scollopsof) a la Conti.— 
Proceed as above; reserve the filets 
mignons, garnish with truffles, cut into 
various shapes; lard the ji/ets, and di- 
vide the thickest part of each; preserve 
the right side point, turn over the two 
divided parts, and give them the shape 
of an arrow, or you may make them in 


P3 


CHI. 


the form of anS. Arrange the gscollops 
as an obelisk in the middle of a_ dish, 
and lay the filets and truffles round it. 

CuicKENs (Seollops of) al’ Essence of 
Cucumbers.—Cut scollops from the fillets 
of four chickens, put them in a pan 
with some clarified butter, sprinkle them 
with salt, and serve them with the fol- 
lowing sauce:—Pare and slice some 
_ green cucumbers, and lay the larger 
slices, having taken out the seeds (such 
as are the size of ahalf-crown), in salt 
and vinegar, for a little while; then drain 
them on a clean cloth, and let them stew 
gently with some sauce tournée, a small 
bit of sugar, and a little salt ; when done, 
drain them again. In the meantime 
mince a few cucumbers, and put them 
with the parings into butter, sweat them 
til! melted; mix this with the slices, 
and boil them gently, till all the butter 
is extracted, then reduce and mix it with 
some béchamelle, and strain it through a 
tammy ; when the scollops are wanted, 
toss them up over a stove; drain the 
butter, and add a little cream, and put 
them into the sauce. Garnish with the 
cucumbers drained. 

CuicKEns (Scollops of) with Truffies.— 
Cut the fillets of three chickens into 
scollops, about the size of a crown-piece, 
and throw them into clarified butter ; 
have ready some truffles, peeled and cut 
of the same size and form as the scollops; 
Sprinkle them with salt. Reduce the 
cuttings of the truffles in some consommé, 
and mix it with velouté. Toss up the 
scollops and truffles just before serving, 
add a little thick cream, and serve with 
the velouté. 

' CHINA Chilo.—Mince a pint basin 
of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and 
some of the fat; put two onions, a let- 
tuce, 2 pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful 
of pepper, four spoonsful of water, and 
two or three ounces of clarified butter, 
into a stewpan_ closely covered; simmer 
two hours, and serve in the middle of a 
dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is 
approved, add a little. 

CHINESE Temple.—Having boiled an 
ounce of double-refined sugar, with kalf 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, 
set it by till cold, and then add to it an 
egg well beaten. With this, make four 
‘ounces of flour into a very stiff paste; 
rollit out as thin as possible, and lay it 
in a set of tins the form of a temple, and 
bake them in a slow oven. Whencold, 
take the paste from the tins, and join 
each piece together according to the 
proper forms, with isinglass and water, 
The lower part, of course, ought to be 
stronger than the top, in order that it 
may sustain the weight of the whole. 


( 162 ) 







CHO 


The pieces also must be cut as exact as 
possible to the shape of the tins. =” 

CHITTERLINGS.* — Take some 
hogs’ entrails, cleanse them carefully, 
and cut them into convenient lengths; 
put them into water with vinegar, laure 
or bay, thyme and basil, for six or eight 
hours ; then cut one part of these entrails 
and some pork together, with pork-fat, 
into dice, seasoning the whele with pep- 
per, salt, fine spice, and a little aniseed 
in powder; fill the remainder of the 
entrails with all these ingredients, but 
not to tightness, to prevent bursting 5 tie 
them with thin twine, and boil them in 
half water and half milk, with salt, 
thyme, bay and basil; when they are 
sufficiently boiled, leave them to cool in 
their liquor. Broil on a clear fire, and 
serve them. oi igh, Ano 

N.B. Certain celebrated French cooks 
previously soak them for six hours in 
white wine; others, in melted lard. 
They are also boiled in stock, together 
with carrots, parsnips, and a bunch of 
parsley, scallions, thyme, laurel, or bay ; 
pierce them before broiling. 

Cuittreruines.—Take the large gut of 
a pig; after having well washed it, cut it 
into pieces of the length you would wish 
the chitterlings; soak the pieces in a 
quart of vinegar and water, mixed wit 
thyme, bay-leaves, and basil; then chop - 
some of the pieces quite small, and mix 
them with some finely minced pork} 
season the whole with salt, fine spices, . 
and a single aniseed ; then fill the pieces 
of gut about three. parts, as, if quite full, 
they will burst in cooking: tie the ends, 
and boil them in milk and water, throw- 
ing in some salt, thyme, bay-leaves, 
basil, and a little flare. When done, let 
rhe cool in their liquor, and then broi 
them. 

CuitTer.ines, @ la Rowen.—Take a 
calf’s or lamb’s chaudron and some pork 
flee; cut them into small pieces; season 
them with a a small quantity of pounded 
aniseed, salt, and fine spices; boil them 
in milk and fat broth, with a bunch of 
sweet herbs,.and a few sliced onions; 
leave them to cool in the liquor in which 
they are boiled. 

Cuitrertines, Veal.—Scald a calf’s 
chaudron and some udder about fifteen 
minutes, then cut them into fillets, with 
a pound of pickled pork; mix these to- 
gether, and add afew chopped shalots, 
salt, fine spices, four spoons{ul of cream, 
and four yolks of eggs. Finish as beef 
chitterlings. 

CHOCOLATE.*—According as you 
wish to make this beverage, either with 
milk or water, put a cup of one or other 
of these liquids into a chocolate-pot, with 





CHO. 


one ounce of cake chocolate. Some per- 
sons dissolve the checolate in a little 
water before they put it into the milk. 
‘i soon as the milk or water begins to 

il, millit. When the chocolate is dis- 
solved, and begins to bubble, take it off 
the fire, letting it stand near it for a 
quarter of an hour; then mill it again to 
make it frothy; afterwards serve it out 
in cups, 

The chocolate must not be milled, un- 
less it is prepared with cream. Chocolate 
in cakes should always be made use of 
for ices and dragées. 

Cxuoco.ate.—Simmer the chocolate on 
a slow fire, in the proportion of two 
ounces to each cup} stir it about a good 
deal with a chocolate-mill, and when it 
is properly dissolved and thickened, add 
a yolk ofan egg beat up, to the propor- 
tion of four cups, or the whites equally 
beat up, and the first froth thrown away 3; 
mix it first with a little of the chocolate, 
which add to the rest, and mill it very 
well to incorporate together; this will 
make it of a proper consistence, and of a 
proper froth; it is best made a day or 
two before using. If you keep it ready 
made any time, boil it a moment every 
other day}; sweeten it according to 
taste.* rn 

* The Frenchauthor says—dissolveand 
boil one ¢ablette, viz., a cake or lozenge, 
toeach cup. It is to be observed, that 
their chocolate is made into smal] cakes, 
which contain about twelve to a pound, 
and is sweetened in the making, which 
is commonly called Dutch chocolate in 
England. 

Cuoco.aTeE (fo make either with Milk 
or WVater).—Divide a pound of choco- 
date into twelve parts; take as many 
parts as you wish to make cups of cho- 
colate ; put into a chocolate-pot an equal 


number of cups of water ; let your choco- | 


late dissolve; mill it, then put your 
chocolate-pot on a gentle fire ; let it boil 
slowly, keeping it constantly stirring: 
immediately before it is served, mill it. 

To make chocolate with milk, you 
must divide your pound of chocolate into 
sixteen parts. 

CuocouatE Almonds.—Take a pound 
of chocolate finely grated, and a pound 
and a half of the best sugar, finely sifted ; 
soak some gum-dragon in orange-flower 
water, and work them into what form 
you please ; the paste must be stiff; dry 
them ina stove. You may write devices 
on paper, roll them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

Cuocoiate Biscuits.*~—Whip to snow 
the whites of six eggs; mix with them 
as much scraped chocolate as will colour 
and taste them ; add some powder-sugar 


( 163 ) 


CHO 


and some fine flour; make it into a 
paste; shape your biscuits; put them 
in paper, and bake them in a gentle 
oven. 

Cuocouate Biscuits.—Take a quarter 

of a pound of chocolate, and putitona 
tin over a stove, to make it warm}; then 
put a pound of powdered sugar in a 
basin; and when the chocolate is quite 
warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, 
and mix it well with about eight whites 
of eggs ; if you find it too thin, add some 
more powdered sugar, to bring it to a 
paste, so that you can roll into lumps the 
size of walnuts: let your oven be of a 
moderate heat; put three papers under 
them; let the oven just raise and make 
them crisp:and firm; and Jet them be 
quite cold before you take them off the 
paper. 
- CHocouate Biscutts.*—Take a dozen 
fresh eggs, half a pound of flour, two 
ounces of grated chocolate, and a pound 
and a half of powder-sugar; beat these 
ingredients up well in a mortar for a 
quarter of an hour; then lay your bis- 
cuits on white paper, and bake them. 

Vanilla and cinnamon. biscuits are 
made in the same way. 

CuocoLtate, Blanemange of.* — Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of good choco- 
late, and the same of sugar, ina glass of 
boiling water; extract the-milk of al- 
monds in the usual way, and having 
divided it, mix with one halfof the cho- 
colate, four drachms of isinglass, and 
with the other, six ounces of sugar dis- 
solved: in a glass of warm water, and four 
drachms of isinglass. Proceed with the 
rest of the operation as in Blancmange 
of Cedrat. 

CuoconaTE Bonbons.*—Put a quarter 
of a pound of chocolate over a fire, to 
dissolve it ; and having boiled two pounds 
of sugar to fort perlé, put a spoonful or 
two into the chocolate; stir it till it 
forms a thin paste, and then pour it on 
the sugar, and boil both together to 
caramel. Inthe mean time melta little 
butter, skim, and pour it off clear intoa 
basin; take a spoonful of it, and rub it 
with your hand over a marble slab or 
table: on this pour the chocolate and 
sugar; then take two énds of a sword- 
blade, (one in each hand), and press lines 
an inch apart all down it; cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the sugar 
in’ small squares all over; doing it as 
quick as possible, lest the sugar should 
cool before you have done ; then pass the 
sword-blade between the marble and the 
sugar; lay under the latter sheets of 
paper; and when cold, break it into 
pieces according to the marks, and wrap 
each square in paper. 


Clio 


CrocotaTte Bouchées de Dames.*— 
Make your douchées de dames as direct- 
ed, (see that article), but lay them 
rather more of an oval form; when bak- 
ed, take them from the papers. Then 
put two ounces of very fine sugar, (sifted), 
and three ounces of grated chocolate, 
into a pan, with one and a half whites of 
eggs; stir it with a silver spoon for eight 
or ten minutes; and having filled the 
bouehées with marmalade, mask them 
with this mixture ; as you do them, strew 
crystallized sugar over, and place them 
carefully on a baking-plate covered with 
paper. When all are done, put them in 
the oven for five or six minutes, and 
serve them when cold. 

CuocotaTeE Cannellons.* — Prepare 
twenty pannequets; mask them lightly 
with chocolate-cream patissiére; strew 
over them some crushed macaroons; 
roll them out; cut them through the 
middle; dip them in batter, and fry 
them: giaze, and serve them quite hot. 

Cuoconate Comfits.*——Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over the fire ; when it 
is dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour 
it upon a pound of masse pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or 
vanilla at discretion ; mix the whole well 
together ; then spread it over some wa- 
fer shapes, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. Ifthe paste does not appear deep 
coloured enough, you may colour it with 
bolus Armenicum. 

CHocoLaTE Conserve.*—Dissolve two 
ounces of good chocolate in a little wa- 
ter, put it intoa skillet with half a pound 
of sugar boiled to perlé ; keep the sugar 
stirring, and when it boils put the con- 
serve into moulds. 

CuocoLaTe Conserve.* — Dissolve a 
quarter of a pound of grated chocolate 
in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiére 
plume, put your chocolate into it, stir- 
ring it well to mix it; serve it whilst it 
is warm. . 

CuocoLtaTe Cream.*—Take a pint of 
milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of three 
eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar, 
mix these ingredients together, set them 
on the fire, stir it constantly, and let it 
boil till reduced to a quarter; then add 
two ounces of grated chocolate ; and hav- 
ing boiled alittle longer, strain it, and let 
it cool. Serve it cold. 
~ CwHocotaTe Cream.——Scrape two 
squares of chocolate, and put them ina 
stewpan, with half a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, a pint of milk, and half a pint 
of cream; let it boil till a third is con- 
sumed, and when half cold, beat up the 
yolks of six eggs with it, and strain the 


{ 164 ) 


CHO 
whole through a sieye, and then put the 


small cups or dish in which the cream 
is to be served into a pan containing 
enough boiling water to reach above 
half-way up the cream ; cover this pan, 
and puta little fire on the lid; when 
done, and the cream cool, serve. are 

CrocoLaTe Cream.—Scrape into oné 
quart of thick cream one ounce of the 
best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite 
smooth take it off, and leave it to be 
cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs, 
whisk and take up the froth on sieves as 
others are done; and serve the froth in 
glasses, to rise above some of the cream. 

Cuoconate Cream.—Take about half 
a cake of chocolate, bruise it to pieces, 
put it ina stewpan with a4 little milk, 
and stir it over a gentle fire till it looks 
smooth and thick; then add a little 
more milk, and stir it again over the 
fire ; continue this till it takes the thick- 
ness of cream ; sweeten it to your palate 
with clarified sugar ; stir ina little thick 
cream with a very little isinglass, rub it 
through the tammy, and set it in the 
mould. : 

Cuocotate Cream.—Take a quart of 
cream,a pint of white wine, and a little 
juice of lemon: sweeten it well, lay in 
a sprig of rosemary, grate some choco- 
late, and mix all together; stir it over 
the fire till it is thick, and pour it into 
your cups. 

CrocouatTe Creamau Bain Marie *— 
Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate 
into smal! pieces, and dissolve it in a 
glass of water with a small quantity 
of vanilla, and half a pound of sugar. 
When these ingredients are perfectly 
dissolved, add five glasses of boiling 
milk; pour this mixture, alittle at a 
time, on the yolks of ten, and one whole 
egg; stir it constantly with a wooden 
spoon, add a grain of salt, strain and 
finish as directed, Cream au Bain 
Marie. 

CuHocoLaTE Cream a la Francaise.7— 
Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best 
chocolate in a glass of boiling water over 
a gentle fire ; then pour into it, one at a 
time, the yolks of eight eggs; add halfa 
pound of sugar, and four glasses of boil- 
ing milk. Stir it constantly over a 
moderate fire till the cream thickens; 
then boii it up once and strain it; when 
nearly cold, add six drachms of isinglass, 
and finish in the usual way. Ser 
Cream é la Francaise. 

Cuocosate Whipped Cream.*—Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of the best 
chocolate in halfa glass of boiling water 
over a moderate fire; then let it cool; 
add to it a quarter of a pound of powder 


—— SCC CCT! Ch 











.CHO 


sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. 
Ste Whipped Cream. 
CuocoLatTe Cream Patissiére.*—Grat 
_a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and 
mix it with two ounces of powder-sugar 
and a quarter of a pound of sweet maca- 
roons. Put this mixture into a cream 
patessiére, prepared as directed in that 
- article- 
Cuoco.tate Drops. — Take one pound 
_and a half of chocolate, put it on a pew- 
ter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven 
just to warm the chocolate; then put it 
into a copper stewpan, with three quar- 
ters of a pound of powdered sugar ; mix 
_it well over the fire, take it off, and roll 
it in pieces the size of small marbles, put 
them on white paper, and when they are 
all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
corner, and lift it up and down so that 
the paper may touch the table each time, 
and by that means you will see the drops 
come quite fat, about the size of a six- 
pence; put some sugar nonpareils over 
them, and cover all that are on the paper, 
then shake them off, and you will see all 
the chocolate drops are covered with 
the sugar nonpareils ; iet them stand till 
cold, and they will come off well, and 
then put them in a box papered. 
_ Cuocouats (Floating Island of ).—— 
Take the whites of two eggs, and mix 
them up with two ounces of chocolate 
scraped; pile it on a thin custard or 
jelly. 

Cuocouate au Fromage.—Whip a pint 
and a half of rich cream. Melt a quarter 
of a pound of chocolate that you have 
previously rasped or pounded; add a 
little water to it; when melted, mix with 
ita little isinglass and a little sugar ; 
then mix that with the whipped cream, 
fill your mould, and surround it with ice. 
Do not neglect to whip it over ice till 
‘you find the mixture begins to freeze; 
then put it into the mould, and surround 
it with ice. 

Cuocotate Fromage Bavarois of.*— 
‘Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best 
chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and 
boil it for five minutes stirring con- 
stantly; when perfectly dissolved add a 
glass of good cream, (also boiling), six 
ounces of powder-sugar, and six drachms 
of clarified isinglass: when well mixed 
strain it off into the 467 in ice, stir it with 
a silver spoon, and as soon asit begins to 
take, mix a fromaged la Chantilly, and 
finish as usual. 

Cxuocouate Frothed or Whipped.* — 
Put halfa pound of chocolate to a glass 
of water over a small fire, stirring it with 
a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolved ; 
then take it offand add six yolks of eggs, 


(165 ) 


CHO 


a pint of double cream, and three quar- 
ters ofa pound of powder-sugar. Pour 
the whole into a pan, and when coid, 
whip it up as directed. Ses Frothed 
Cream. 
CuHocouate Génoise.*—Make the Gé: 
noise in the usual way, adding to the in- 
gredients a small quantity of vanilla. 
When done make a glaze with three 
ounces of grated chocolate, two ounces of 
powder-sugar, and half the white of an 
egg; do them over with this, and put 
aie into the oven for two minutes to 
ry. ; 
Cuoconate Ices (Cream).—Take any 
quantity of chocolate, melt it over the 
fire in a small pan; when melted pour 
it into that in which you are to make your 
cream ; break your yolks of eggs into it, 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add 
some pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stir- 
ring continually; then add your cream 


by little and little, stirring and turning 


it till the whole is muxed_ properly 
together; then set your pan over the 
fire, and keep stirring with a wooden- 
spoon till you see your composition is 
near boiling, then take it off immedi- 
ately, for, from the moment you set your 
composition over the fire till that it 
offers to boil, it has sufficient time to in- 
corporate well and thicken sufficiently, 
without need of boiling; and should you 
let it boil, you would risk the turning 
your cream into whey, on account of the 
yolks of eggs, which would do too much. 
Take great care likewise your cream 
is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon 
as itis warm it will turn to curds and 
whey; therefore, be careful, stir it con- 
tinually, from the time you setit on the 
fire till you take it off; then put it in 
the sabotiere to make itcongeal after the 
usual manner, 

CxroconaTe Cream Ices.—Dissolve the 
chocolate in a little water on a slow fire 3 
when properly done, mix it with a pint 
of cream, three yolks of new laid eggs, 
and about half a pound of sugar. 

Cuocouate Ice (/Vater).—Take three 
ounces of chocolate, warm it, and mix 
with it balf a gill of syrup, and half a 
pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it 
thick, 

Cuoconate Macaroons.*—Put a quar- 
ter of a pound of chocolate on a tin-plate 
over a coal fire, and when itis dissolved 
pour it ona plate; put to it a spoonful 
or two of sweet almond paste, made as 
for macaroons, stir itin well, and then 
pour it upon the remainder of the almond 
paste, in which you have mixed a tea- 
spoonful of powdered cianamon or va- 
nilla, or both : beat them together well in 


CHO 


a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake 


them for three quarters of an hour ina. 


‘moderate oven. 


Cuaocotate Mock.— Take a pint of 


milk, boil it over a slow fire with some 
‘whole cinnamon, and sweeten it with 
Lisbon sugar, beat up the yolks of three 
eggs, throw all together into a chocolate 
pot, and mill it one way or it will turn. 
Serve it in chocolate cups. . 

Cuocotate Parfait Amour.* — For 
four bottles of brandy, take one pound of 
the best chocolate, cut in small bits ; 
a little salt, two cloves, and a little cin- 
namon; you must infuse all in the 
brandy, with two bottles and half a pint 
of water, with whites of eggs, and filter 
it through the paper. 

You must be careful not to take more 
than two bottles from every four, except 
from the cinnamon, from which you are 
to take as much as you can get. 

CnocouatTe Pastils.—Take a little 
chocolate, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it; stic it with a spoon; 
when it is melted, take half a pound of 
loaf sugar, pounded in a mortar and sift- 
ed, which dissolve in a little clear water. 
When that is done, putin your choco- 
late; if you find the paste too thick, add 
a little water, enough to bring it te that 
degree of liquidity that you may take it 
upon aknife; then take half a sheet of 
paper, and cover it with little round and 
flat drops, which we call nastzls, of the size 
of a sixpence; let them dry naturally in 
a cupboard; and when dry, take them 
off from the paper, and put them in 
boxes. 

CuocotaTe Pastil Paste.—Melt half 
an ounce of gum-dragon in a little water 
tillitis quite dissolved and thick; sift it 
through a linen cloth, pound it in a mor- 
tar with a quarter-part of whites of eggs, 
a chocolate cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by 
degrees, and adding either more or less 
sugar, according as the paste is malle- 
able ; it must be pretty firm ; form it into 
what flowers or designs you please, as 
shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or 
beans, &c. 

Cuocoiate Petits Géteaux Royaux.* 
— Grate three ounces of vanilla choco- 
late, and mix it witha quarter ofa pound 
of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white 
of egx; prepare and fiinish your cakes 
as directed. Sere Abnonds Petits Gé- 
teaux Royaux. 

These cakes may be flavoured with 
cedrat, lemon, Seville or sweet orange, 
by grating the rind of either of these 
fruits on sugar, which must be crushed 
and well dried before it is used. 


CuHocouate Petits Paias.*—These are * 


( 166 ) 


CHO 


mare in thie same way as Petits Pains a 
la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
acream patissiére, mixed with two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavoured with vanilla; then put 


three ounces of sifted sugar; the same 


of chocolate, and half the white of an egg 
intoa pan; stir these ingredients with a 
silver spoon until you have a smootlr 
transparent glaze, with which mask the 
top and sides of the petits pains, 
eget it equally with the blade of a 
ni e. 
- Cuocouate Profitrolles.*—Mix aquar- 
ter of a pound of grated chocolate ina 
glass of cream patissiére; spread half of 
this carefully on a silver dish, and put 
it in the oven for halfan hour, that it may 
burn to the dish; then mix in a pan 
two ounces of grated chocolate, the same 
of powder-sugar, and a sufficient qt 
tity of white of egg to make a smootl 
glaze, with which glaze eight choua, 
rather larger than common; dry thema 
minute or two in the oven, and fillthem 
with the remainder of the cream ; then 
take the largest, and place it in the 
centre of the dish of cream, and arrange 
the remaining seven round it, as close 
as you well can; put itin the oven again 
for a quarter ofan hour, and then serve.. 
Cuocotate Puffs.—Take half a pound 
of chocolate grated, and a pound of 
double refined sugar, beat fine and sifted; 
with the whites of two eggs make a paste, 
and have ready some more sugar to 
strew on the tins; turn the rough side 
upwards, and bake them in a slow oven 3 
you may form the paste into any shape, 
and colour it with different colours. 
CuocotaTe Puffs.—Beat and sift half 
a pound of double-refined sugar, scrape 
into it an ounce of chocolate very fine, 
and mix them together. Beat the white 
of an egg to a high froth, and strew in the 
sugar and chocolate. Keep beating it 
till as stiffas a paste. Then sugar the 
paper, drop them on, the size of a six- 
pence, and bake them in a slow oven. — 
CxrocoLaTE Soufié.—Take a quarter of 
a pound of chocolate, which cut as small 
as you can, and melt it on the fire ina 
little water. When it is entirely melted, 
throw it into the soufflé preparation. _ 
CuocouaTe Petil Souflé of.*—Having 
grated a quarter of a pound of chocolate, 
put it ona sheet of paper. andlay it at the 
opening of the oven for five minutes; in 
the meanwhile dilute six ounces of sifted 
sugar with the white of an egg ; then add 
to it the chocolate; when the mixture is 
very firm add a little more white of egg, 
and conclude your operation in the usual 
way. (See Petit Soufiés.) 


ee 








CHO 


- Cuocouats Sweetmeats.* —Take two 
ounces of chocolate, and break it into a 
little warm water, put it on the fire, and 
when quite dissolved, mix it with a pound 
of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up 
well, and then spread it on wafer-paper 
in what forms you please, and bake them 
in a moderate oven. If the sweetmeats 
be not sufficiently dark coloured, add a 
little bol-ammoniac. 
_Cxrocouate Tart.—Put two spoonsful 
of fine flour in astewpan, with the yolks 
of six eggs, reserve their whites, mix 
these with some milk, add a quarter of a 
pound of rasped chocolate, with a stick 
of cinnamon, some sugar, 2 little salt, and 
some rasped green lemon-peel; let them 
be a little time over the fire, after which 
put in a little preserved lemon-peel cut 
’ small, and having tasted whether it has 
a fine flavour, let it cool; when cold, 
mix this withthe reserved whites of eggs 
beat up to a froth, when you use it, put 
it into pattypans, and put either puff or 
tart paste over them; ice, and bake them 
in a moderate oven. 

-Cuocouate Tart. Mix a little flour 
and cream, with a proportionable quan- 
tity of chocolate, a bit of sugar, and three 
eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring 
continually for fear it should catch at 
bottom 5 put it inte the paste, and whites 
of eggs beat and frothed upon it; glaze 
it with sugar. i 

-Cuocouate WVine.—Take a pint of 
sherry, or a pint and a half of port, four 
ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces 
uf fine sugar, and half an ounce of white 
starch, or fine flour; mix, dissolve, and 
boil all these together for about ten or 
‘twelve minutes. But if your chocolate 
is made with sugar, take double the quan- 
tity of chocolate, and half the quantity of 


sugar. 
CHOUDER.—Lay some slices cut 
from the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, 
in a deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with 
a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them 
on the pork. Bone and cut a fresh cod 
into thin slices, and place them on the 
pork; then puta layer of pork, on that 
a. layer of biscuit, then alternately the 
other materials until the pan is nearly 
full, season with pepper and salt, put in 
abont a pint and a half of water, lay a 
paste over the whole, cover the stewpan 
very close, and let it stand, with fire 
above as well as below, for four hours; 
then skim it well, and put it in a dish, 
pour a glass of Madeira made hot over 
it, also some Jamaica pepper, stewed 
mushrooms, truffles, and oysters; brown 
the paste slightly, and lay it over the 
whole. ° ; 
CHOUX.*—Put a pint of water into a 


( 167 ) 


CHO 


stewpan, with half a pound of fresh but 
ter, the rinds of two lemons grated, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and a very 
little salt; as soon as the water begins to 
boil, add as much flour as the liquor 
will imbibe; when the paste becomes 
very thick, keep stirring with a spoon 
until quite done, then let it cool. After 
that, break into it a sufficient number of 
eggs to make the paste soft; taking care 
that it be firm enough to allow you to 
work it up with the hand ; when it may 
be formed according to fancy. This 
paste may be glazed and garnished 
either with almonds or pistachio nuts} 
when baking the choua, be careful to 
keep the oven tightly closed. 

Isrip.—Put into a large stewpan a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a 
pint of water, two ounces of sugar, the 
peel of a lemon, and a little salt ; when 
the butter is quite melted, take out the 
lemon-peel, and add, a little at a time, 
some very dry sifted flour. Stir these 
well over the fire, until a paste is formed 
that may be easily removed from the 
sides of the pan. Then take it from 
the fire, and break in half a dozen eggs, 
one by one; taking particular care that 
all are perfectly fresh and sweet ; when 
the eggs are well mixed in, form your 
paste into little balls the size ef a marble, 
and place them on a baking sheet, about 
an inch apart, as they increase a good 
deal in size; wash each over with dorure 
previously mixed with alittle milk, and 
bake them in a moderately heated oven; 
when done, take them from the baking 
sheet witha knife; make a small opening 
at the side, and put in any kind of sweet- 
meat you may think proper, and dish 
them en budsson. 

Another way.—Put a quarter of a 
pound of butter, with rather more than 
halfa pint of milk, a little sugar, and 
lemon-peel, into a stewpan, and set it 
on the fire; as soon as it boils, add. to it 
a quarter of a pound of flour, and witha 
wooden spoon stir it for about two 
minutes after the paste is formed ; break 
into this four eggs, one by one, then add 
a little salt and some pounded ratafia bis- 
cuits; beat it up a minute or two, and 
then drop iton a baking-sheet, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. These are 
also cut open, and sweetmeats inserted 3 
be careful to keep the oven close. 

Cuoux d lu d’ Artoise—-Proceed as 
above, but instead of four, put in the 
yolks of six and the whites of three eggs; 
then add the pounded ratafia,: some 
orange flowers, and a gill of warm cream. 
When all these ingredients are well 
mixed together, drop them in lengths 
about the size of a finger ; egg,and bake 
them ; before they are entirely done, 


e- 


CHU 


sift a little sngar over, and when quite 
done, glaze them with a salamander. 
Serve them hot. 

Cxovux en Biscuits.—Also called Ga- 
TEAU A LA D’ARTOISE, and are made like 
petits Choux & la d’ Artoise. 

Cxoux @ la Mecque.*—Put two glasses 
of milk, and two onnces of fresh butter 
into a stewpan, making them into a 

aste, with a proper quantity of flour; 
having dried it a few minutes, add two 
more ounces of butter, and halfa glass of 
milk, and dry it again alittle. Take it 
from the stewpan, and stir into it two 
éggs and two ounces of powder-sugar ; 
when well mixed together, add two 
more eggs, a spoonful of whipped cream, 
and a grain of salt; lay the choux with 
a’ spoon about three inches long; dorez 
and mask them with sugar. Bake them 
in a moderate oven. 

These choux may be flavoured accord- 
ing to taste, with orange, lemon, cedrat, 
&c., by grating either of these fruits on 
the sugar employed in making them. 

*Cuoux (Petits) Meringués.—daving 
made and baked a sufficient number of 
petits choux pralinées, but without al- 
monds; cut off the tops, and pour into 
them some /talienne cream. Beat the 
whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong 
froth, adding to them as much powder- 
sugar as will render them. very smooth ; 
and drop it on the petits choux; strew 
sugar over this, and bake them in a mo- 
derate oven. These must be served hot. 

Cuowx (Petits) Pralinées.—Chop some 
Jordan almonds extremely small, and 
mix them with a small quantity of pound- 
ed sugar; sprinkle these ingredients 
over petits choux, which must be drop- 
ped so as to make them double the usual 
size. Garnish these as above. 

Cuovux @ la Reine.——Are made the 
same way as @ lad’ Artoise, only drop 
them on the baking-plate of around, in- 
stead of a long form: neither are they 

- glazed. 

Cuovx (Petits) Basket of, a la Chan- 
tiily.— Roll ont some very small cheaur 
with a little flour, «nd bake, but do not 
glaze them. Boil some clarified sugar 
to the degree cassé ; then, witha small 
pointed stick, take up the chowa, and dip 
them, one at a time, in the sugar, and 
as yon do this, place them round a but- 
tered mould, of the form of a basket, or 
whatever other form you may think 
proper; butter a hoop of the same size 
as the top of your basket, stick together 
a single row of chowx, half way round it, 
and then fasten it to each side of the 
basket; fill it with with chant?/li cream, 
and serve it. 

CHUB (Botled),—Put as much beer- 


( 168 ) 


vinegar and water into a fish-kettle as 


CIN 


will cover the fish; a good quantity of 
salt, and some fennel. Scale and cleanse 
a chub, and when the water boils put in 
the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled, 
lay it on a board to drain, let it lie foran 


hour, put it into a pewter-dish overa ~ 


chafing-dish of coals, with melted butter, 
and serve it very hot. aaivd: 
Cuus (Broiled).—Scald a chub, cut off 
the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it: 
down the middie, make two or three cuts 
on the back with a knife, and broil it on’ 
a wood fire. 
broiling with fresh butter and salt, and 
thyme shred small. pte ion 


Cuus(Roasted).—Scale and thoroughly ' , 


cleanse a chub ; wash it, and stuff it wit 
sweet herbs, then tie it to the spit with 
splinters, roast it, keep hasting it. 


with vinegar and butter, well seasoned ° 


with salt. 
CIDER.—See Cyder. : 
CINNAMON Almonds.—See Almonds. 
Cinnamon Cakes.—Whisk up’ halt a 
dozen eggs with three table-spoons- 
ful of rose-water; add to it a pound of 
sifted stigar, a dessert-spoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, and a sufficient quan- ' 
tity of flour to make it into a paste ; roll 
if out thin, and cut it into whatever 
forms your fancy may dictate, place 
them on paper, and bake them. When 
done, remove them from the paper. ' 
Keep them dry. me ee 
Cinnamon (Candied).— Soak cinna- 
mon in water for four and twenty hours, © 
and then cut it into pieces about an inch © 
long; prepare some sugar to grand lissé, ° 
and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper 
consistence; then put it in the moulds 
with sugar builed to souwflé, and when 
half cold, dry it.. Before the candy is re- 
moved from the moulds, they should 
be laid on one side for sometime. Keep 
them in paperinadry place. =“ 
Cinnamon, Candied.—Cut some cin- 
namon into small sticks of about an inch © 
or an inch and a half long; then put 
them into thin sugar, and boil them as- 
it were in a syrup. Then take off the 
pan, and set it by for five or six hours to © 
soak, take them out and lay them ona 
wire-grate, dry them thoroughly in the 
stove ; afterwards put them in order in 
tin moulds upon little grates made for 
the purpose, and set into the moulds, so 
that there may be three rows set one 
above another, separated by those grates. 
In the meantime, boil sugar till it is 
blown, and pour it into your mould, so * 
that some of it may lie upon the upper- 
most grate; then set them in the stove 
with a covered fire, and let them stand 


Baste it all the time itis ~ 


a 


ns 





£ 


CIN ( 169 ) CIN 


ali night; the next morning take notice 


whether the cinnamon be well coagu- 
lated; turn the mould upside down, and 
set it in the stove again, with aplate 


- underneath ; and when it is thoroughly 


drained, take out your sticks of cinna- 

mon, loosening them, by little and little, 
ently; then lay them upon a sieve, set 

in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

Crnnamon, Conserve of .*—Bruise four 

rachms of cinnamon, dilute it with a 
little clarified sugar, or syrup of mallows ; 
boil two pounds of sugar to petzt cassé, 
throw in the cinnamon, stir it well, and 
then take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour the conserve 
into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. 

- Crnnamon (Drugées or Sugared).*— 
Soak a quarter of a pound of the best 
cinnamon in sticks, for twelve hours in 
water to soften it; at the end of that time, 
cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve ina 
warm place for some days. When quite 
hard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the 
degree grand perlé ; have ready a quan- 
tity of Bie powder, and proceed in the 
same manner as in doing dimond Dra- 
gées, until the cinnamon sticks are of 
the proper thickness ; those which are 
to be twisted or curled, should not be so 
thick asthe others. Be equally parti- 
cular in removing the sugar, that cakes 
on the bottom of the pan, as in making 
Almond Dragées. 

Cinnamon Dragées (Common).*—In- 
fuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as much water as will cover it; the 
next day put the infusion inte a mortar, 
and stir it well with a pestle, and the 
longer it is stirred the whiter it becomes; 
in rather more than a quarter of an hour, 
add to it the caked sugar which was re- 
moved from the preserving-pan, and 
which must be well pounded and sifted, 
also a pound of powder-sugar, a spoonful 
of cinnamon powder, and by degrees 
two or three pounds of flour; moisten 
the whole occasionally with water ; when 
the paste is of a proper consistence, place 
it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker than the eighth of an inch, 
and then cut it into slips of the same 
size as the cinnamon (see above), put 
them on paper or a sieve in a warm place 
forsomedays. Then boil some common 
sugar to perlé, and sugar the slips of 
paste as above Cirected ; instead of the 
fine powder, flour is sufficient, until the 
last two layers, when the powder may 
be used to give them whiteness. When 
of the requisite size, lay them on sieves 
to dry. In a few days they may be 
curled, and coloured, which is done in 
the same manner as coriander seeds, 


Observe, fine sugared cinnamon is al- 


ways white. 

Cinnamon (Essence of).—This is made 
by infusing oii of cinnamon in highly 
rectified spirits of wine, in the propor- 
tion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter. 

Cinnamon, Fine.*—Put two ounces of 
fine cinnamon, the rinds of two lemons, 
and an ounce of stick-liquorice, beaten, 
into two quarts of the best brandy, and 
a pint of water, cover it close, and when 
it has stood for some days, distil it. 
Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart 
of water, add to it your liqueur, and 
strain it. 

Cinnamon /ce.—Infuse some cinna- 
mon in hot water foran hour, and give it 
a boil; add to the infusion a pint of wa- 
ter and half a pound of sugar; stir them 
well together, and then put it into the 
sabotiére, and surround it‘with ice and 
salt; stir it with a flat pewter spoon, till 
it begins to freeze, then put the mixture 
into your mould, and keep it in ice till 
ready to serve. 

Cinnamon, Parfait Amour.—For four 
bottles of brandy, you must take four 
ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, 
thirty cloves, thirteen coriander-seeds, 
a little salt, mixed together in brandy, 
let it infuse for eighteen hours; you are 
to take from the stillas much as you can; 
two pounds of sugar clarified in two bot- 
tles and a half of water, with the whites 
of two or three eggs well beaten together, 
mixed with the spirit, and filtered 
through blotting-paper; after you have 
mixed the spirit, take care to cork your 
bottles well. 

Cinnamon Pastils.x—Dissolve half an 
cunce of gum-dragon in a glass of water, 
and strain it through a lawn sieve intoa 
mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of 
powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient 
quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste 
of a proper consistence ; forminto such 
figures as you may fancy, and dry them 
in a stove. Keep them ina dry place. 

Cinnamon Pasti/s.—Put a quarter of 
an ounce of gum-dragon for every pound 
you use, into a pan, to be dissolved in a 
little water ; when it has stood for two 
or three days, stir it with a spoon and 
strain it; put it into a mortar with the 
whites of a couple of eggs, and some 
finely sifted . cinnamon-powder; sift 
powdered sugar into it by little and little, 
temper all till the paste becomes pliable. 
Make your pastils in what shapes you 
please, and dry them in a stove. 

Cinnamon Sweetmeats.*—'Take a pound 
of marchpane paste, and dilute it withas 
many whites of eggs as will make it, 
spread easily with a knife 5 add to this, a 


t 


ae 


CIN 


« 
spoonful or two of prepared bole-ammo- | 


mac, which will give it a fine red tinge, 
and half an ounce of cinnamon-powder. 
When all these ingredients are well 
mixed, cut some wafer-paper into such 
forms as you may think proper, and lay 
on them the paste about the thickness of 
the eighth of an inch; place them on 
paper, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. When done, they may be finished 
in the following manner:—Boil some 
sugar in orange-flower water, to /a 
plume, and as you take the sweetmeats 
from the oven; dip a hair-pencil intothe 
syrup, and brush them over ; this dries 
almost immediately, and considerably 
improves the look of them. 

Cinnamon (Syrup of).* — Put five 
ounces of good cinnamon into a pre- 
viously-heated glass cucurbite, or any 
delft or earthenware vessel, capable of 
resisting fire; pour intoit two pounds, or 
a quart of nearly boiling water, close the 
vessel hermetically, and place it on hot 
ashes for twelve hours; at the end of 
that time draw off the infusion without 
expressing the cinnamon ; add to it two 
pounds of sugar, coarsely pounded, boil 
the whole to grand perlé, then take it 
from the fire, and when about half cold, 
the flavour may be improved by the ad- 
dition of afew drops of spirit of cinna- 
mon. 

Cinnamon Tinelure.— Bruise three 
ounces of fine cinnamon, and pour on it 
a quart of the best brandy. 

Cinnamon /Vafers.*—Pound and sift 
six ounces of sugar, and put it with an 
equal quantity of melted fresh butter, 
the same of flour, halfan ounce of pow- 
dered cinnamon, and asmall egg; stir 
these up in an earthenware vessel, with 
a sufficient quantity of milk to make it 
into a thin, but not too clear, paste. 
Make an iron*plate quite hot, rub it well 
with butter, then lay on it a spoonful of 
the paste; fry it, and when brown on 
both sides, rol] it, still over the hot iron, 


round a small stick; do this until all the 


paste is used. 

Cinnamon /Vater.—Bruise two pounds 
of good cinnamon, and steep it, with 
half a pound of citron and orange-peel, 
and a quarter of an ounce of coriander 
seeds, in three gallons of Malaga sack, for 
two days, then distil it. Dissoive sugar 
in rose-water ; put it to the cinnamon- 
water, and bottle it. 

_ Crnnamonum.*—Take a quarter of a 
pound of cinnamon, two drachms of 
‘mace, and one ounce of stick-liquorice ; 
bruise them well, and then put them 
into three quarts of the best brandy ; let 
the infusion stand for some days before 
you distil it;- dissolve four pounds. of 


(170 ) 


CIT 


sugar in three pints and a half of water; 
mix this syrup with the liqueur, a 
then strain them. 


very thin and narrow, and throw them 
into water; these are called faggots; 


then cut the citron into slices of any’ 


thickness you think proper; take out 
the inner part with great care, 60 a8 to 
leave only the white ring, and put them 
with the faggots into boiling water ; when 
tender,’ drain them. Boil a sufficient 
quantity of clarified sugar to soufilé ; 
then put in the rings, and boil them to- 
gether. Take it from the fire, and when 
a little cool, rub the sugar against the 
side of the preserving-pan with the back 
of a spoon ; as soon as it becomes white, 
take out the rings with a fork very care; 
fully, one by one, and lay them on a wire- 
grate to drain: boil and proceed with the 
faggots in a similar way; when taken 
out, cut them into proper lengths with 
a pair of scissars, and lay them also on 
the wire to drain. ' 

Citroen Cheesecakes.—Beil a pint of 
cream, and wken cold, mix with it two 
eges well beaten; then boil them to- 
gether until they become a curd. Beat 
a few blanched almonds in a mortar, with 
a little orange-flower water; put them 
to the curd, and add some Naples bis- 
cuits and green citron, chopped very 
small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. : 

Cirron Cream.—Boil a pint of cream 
with half an ounce of isinglass, a little 
cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a bay- 


leaf; when the isinglass is dissolved, | 


strain the cream into a deep dish; cut 
citron into thin slices, and put them in 
when the cream is nearly cold; take care 
the citron does not fall to. the bottom, 
though the cream should cover it. Serve 
it quite cold. 

Citron, Mock.—Cut them long ways 
into quarters; scrape out the seeds and 
inside; preserve and candythem. Care 
must be taken of all fruit kept.in syrup 5 
if there is any froth on\them, they must 
be boiled up, and if they are very frothy 


and sour, the syrup must be first boiled, 


and then put in the fruit, and boil all, 
together. e 
Citron Paste.—Cut off the ends of. 


the ciirons, take out the middle, with all. - 


the seeds; boil them in some water; and 


when quite tender, take them from the 


fire, and throw them into cold water,a 
moment; then, having pressed them in 
a cloth to get the water out, pound and 
sift them. 
of this marmalade put half a pound of 


clarified sugar; simmer them together,, - 


stirring constantly ,until well mixed; 


% This is sometimes 
called Oil of Cinnamon. oots9 Fa 
~ CITRON ( Candied).—Pare the citrons 





To every quarter of a pound. 








CiT 


then put them into moulds, and place 
them in a stove to dry. 
» Cirron (White) Preserved. — Lay 
some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
salt and water for four or five hours, 
then, having washed them in cold water, 
boil them; when tender, drain, and lay 
them into as much clarified sugar as will 
cover them, The next day drain otf the 
syrup, and boil it; when quite smooth 
and cold, pour it on the citrons; let 
them stand twenty-four hours; then 
boil the syrup again, and put in the 
citrons. The third day, boil both to- 
gether, and put them into moulds to 
candy. 

’ Crrron Preserved Liquid.* —Cut a 
slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
so that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and put them over 
the fire in some water; whenever they 
are near boiling, put cold water to them. 
As soon as the citrons rise to the top, 
take them out, and throw them into cold 
water, They must then be put on the 
fire again, in the same water, and boiled 
gently until tender; then take them out, 
and put them in cold water. After this, 
boil them seven or eight times in clari- 
fied sugar; pour the whole into an 
earthen pan, and let itstand. The next 
day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
syrup twenty or thirty times; adda little 
more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; 
do this for three successive days, in- 
creasing the degree to which you boil 
the sugar daily, so that at the last boil- 
ing the degree may be au perlé. The 
fruit may then be put into pots. 

_ To preserve them dry, they must_be 
done exactly the same; only, instead of 
putting the fruit into pots; they should 
be dried on sieves in astove. With the 
remaining sugar the citrons may be 
glazed. 

- Crrron Pudding. — Mix together a 
pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; 
add to this four ounces of fine sugar, the 
same of citron, shred fine, two spoonsful 
of flour, and a little nutmeg; place this 
mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot 
oven, and turn it out. 

Crrron Puddings.—The yolks of three 
eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one 
spoonful of flour, two ounces of citron 
cut thin; sugar to the taste; put this 
into large cups buttered; bake them in 
a tolerably quick oven; when done, turn 
them out of the cups, and serve. 

Crrron Ratafia.*—Pare seven or eight 
citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
small pieces, and put them into a jar, 
with three pints of brandy, and let them 
infuse for three weeks; then add to this 
a pound of sugar, boiled in half a pint of 


(71) 


CLA 


water, and well skimmed; let it stand 
twelve or fifteen days longer, when it 
may be bottled. ; 

Citron (Syrup of ).—Put into a china 
bowl alternate layers of fine powder- 
sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very 
thin slices, and Jet them stand till the 
next day; then strain off the syrup, and 
clarify it over a gentle fire. 

Crrron (Syrup of ).*—Put the rinds of 
three citroas into an earthen vessel, and 
strain on them the juice; to this put a 
little water; pour the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort bowlet. Place this 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled 
with water, over the fire; stir the con- 
tents of the basin frequently; and when 
the sugar is entirely dissolved, and the 
syrup quite clear, take the saucepan 
from the fire, and let it cool. As soon 
as it is cold it may be bottled. 

Citron Water. — Bruise eighteen 
ounces of good citron-peel, nine ounces 
of orange-peel, a quarter of a pound of 
nutmegs ; put them into three gal- 
lons of proof spirits, and distil it; then 
add two pounds of double refined sugar, 
and bottle it. 

Another Way.—Steep the rind, cut 
thin, of a dozen citrons, and half-an 
ounce of bruised cardamom-seed, in good 
brandy (about a quart); stop it close, 
and let it stand some days; then boil a 
pound anda half of sugar ina pint and 
a half of water, until it becomes a syrup; 
skim it well, and when cold, add it, with 
the juice of three lemons, to the infusion ; 
run it through a jelly-bag several times, 
and when perfectly clear it may be 
bottled. 4 : 

CITRONNELLE Ratafia.*—For two 
quarts of the best brandy, take the 
zestes or rinds of a dozen fine sound 
lemons, two drachms of bruised cinna- 
mon, an ounce of coriander, and two 
pounds of sugar, dissolved in a pint and 
a half of water; infuse the whole fur a 
month, then strain and bottle it. 

CLARET (4riézficial).— Distil in a 
cold still, one part of clary water, half a 
part of redstreak cider; and put them, 
with six poundsof Malaga raisins, beaten 
in a mortar, and one pound of the fat 


| mother of claret, in a close vessel, to fer- 


ment; when it has stood a fortnight, 
draw it off, and, for every gallon put 
half a pint of mulberry, blackberry, or 
gooseberry juice, and a pint of spirit of 
clary; to the’whole put three spoonsful 
of flour, the whites of two eggs, a drachm 
of isinglass, and two pounds of syrup 
of clary; mix the whole well together, 
and let it sand; when quite clear, bot- 


tle it. 





CLA. 


Cuiary Fritters.—Beat up three eggs- 


with a spoonful and a half of cream, then 
add a little ratafia, three spoonsful of 
flour, nutmeg and sugar to the taste. 
Wash and dry thoroughly some clary 
leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry 


them. Garnish with Seville orange, and. 


serve with melted butter. 

Cuiary Pancakes.—Make a batter with 
three eggs, three spoonsfuls of flour, a 
pint of milk, and a little salt. Pour this 
batter in a thin layer on boiling lard; 
and on that a few well washed and dried 
clary leaves, over which pour some more 
batter, and fry them. 

Cuary (Spirit of).—Take a quart of 
the juice of clary, clary flowers, clove- 
gilly-flowers, archangel-flowers, flowers 
of lilly of the valley, and comfrey flowers, 
of each two pounds; put these into two 
gallons of sack, and let them steep all 
night ; then distil it in a glass still, with 
a very gentle fire; let the still be very 
well pasted to keep in the spirits; put 
sifted sugar-candy into the bottle you 
draw it in, and let it drop through a bag 
of ambergris. 

Crary Water.—Put two quarts of 
fresh clary-flowers with a quart of bur- 
rage water, into an earthen jar, which 
place in a large vessel of water over the 
fire ; when it has stood an hour take out 
the flowers, and put in .the same quan- 
tity of fresh flowers; in another hour 
take these out, and throw in fresh, and 
so on for seven hours ; then add a gal- 
lon of fresh flowers, two quarts of sack, 
and sweeten it with two pounds of white 
sugar-candy pounded, distil it, and if 
necessary add more sugar-candy. 

Crary Wine. — Boil six gallons of 
water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice 
of six lemons, and four well beaten whites 
of eggs, for half an hour, skimming it 
carefully; then pour this whilst boiling 
hot on a peck of fresh clary-flowers, with 
the peels of the lemons used above, and 
Stir it well; adda very thin and dry toast, 
covered with yeast. When it has work- 
ed two or three days add to it six ounces 
of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhen- 
ish wine. Squeeze the clary through a 
cloth, strain the liquor through a flannel 
bag in_a cask, lay the bung on loosely, 
and if in the course of a few days it does 
not work, bung it quite close. The wine 
may be bottled in three months. 

Another way.— To fifteen gallons of 
water, put forty-five pounds of sugar, 
and having boiled and skimmed it, put 
a small quantity of it to a quarter of a 
pint of yeast, add a little more by de- 
grees, and let it stand an hour. Then 
put both together, and pour it on twelve 
quarts of clary-flowers, and let it work; 


(172) 


CLO 
as soon as it has done, bung it up for | 


four months. Draw it off, and add a. 


gallon of brandy; stop it close for six or 
seven weeks, andthen bottle it. = 


CLOVE (Essence of ).— Infuse a 


drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of 
the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary’s 
measure. ANN d Lf 
Cuoves ( Oz! of ).*—This is made in the 
same manner as cinnamonum ; the quan- 
tities are, an ounce of cloves to three 
quarts of brandy, and four pounds of 
sugar dissolved in four pints of water. 


Crove Pastils.——Are made like those . 


of cinnamon. The proportions are six 
cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. | 

Cuioves (Dantzie Ratafia).* — Take 
three quarters of an ounce of cloves, and 
the same of cinnamon, broken in small 


pieces, and iy! them into half a pint of | 


water ; let them infuse for. twenty-four 
hours. The next day clarify two pounds 
of double refined sugar in a bottle of 
water ; boil it to soufglé, and then add to 
it four bottles of the best red Bordeaux ; 
strain into this the infusion of cloves and 
cinnamon, tie the spices in a little bag, 
and put them in also; cover the pan, and 
boil up the whole half a dozen times; 
then take it from the fire, pour it into 
an earthen vessel, and cover it.. When 
quite cold, take out the bag and squeeze 
it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits 
of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the 
other; pour the former into the liquor, 
stirring constantly; taste it frequently, 


and when sufficiently strong of the pists 


cease pouring. It may be bottled im- 
mediately, cork it tight, tie the corks 
down_and seal them. ‘T'he longer this 
liqueur is kept, the better it will be. 
Cuoves (Syrup of ).—Put a quarter of 
a pound of cloves, and a quart of boilin 
water into a stewpan, cover it close, cad 
boil them gently for halfan hour; drain 
the cloves, and toa pint of the liquor put 
two pounds of sugar; beat up two eggs 


in alittle cold water, add them to the . 


above, and simmer the whole till it be- 


comes a strong syrup. When cold, bottle | 


it. 

Cuioves (Tincture of ).—Steep three. 
ounces, apothecary’s weight, of bruised 
cloves in a quart of brandy for ten days,, 
and then strain it through a flannel bag. 

Ciove Water.*—Bruise an ounce of 
cloves, and put them into a quart of 
brandy, and distil it. Dissolve a pound 
and a half of sugar in a pint otclear 
water, and add it tothe distilled mixture, 
stir them well together, filter, and bottle 
18; 

Crove Water.—Mix a little cinnamon 
with the cloves, or the scent will be too 
strong; allow halfa score of cloves_to a 











A 


coc 


quart of water ; put in a good piece of 
sugar; let them infuse some time over 


tembers,;.or in a warm place; then. 


re 7 it ny use. 

_ CLovE Gilly Flowers (Syrup of).— 
Gather the flowers early in the Ea, 
pick them clean, and cut the white from 
the red; to a quart of flowers put two 
quarts of spring water, let it stand for two 
days in a cold place, and after boiling 
it till it comes to a quart, strain it off, 
and put in half a pound of double refined 
Sugar, and boil it up again for three or 
four minutes; pour it into a china basin, 
let it stand to cool, and when it is quite 
cold, skim it; putit into bottles, cork 
them well, and tie them down with 
leather. 

COCHINEAL Prepared.*—Pound an 
ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, 
pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, 
and two drachms of alum; put these in- 


gredients into a saucepan with half a pint | 


of water ; when it boils take it from the 
fire, and let it cool; pour it off into a 
bottle, as free from sediment as possible, 
and set it by for use, 

CocHiIneaL, fo preserve. — Boil an 
ounce of cochineal beaten to a fine pow- 
der, in three quarters of a pint of water, 
until reduced to half; then add to it rock 
alum and cream of tartar, of each half 
an-ounce, pounded fine. Boil all together 
a shert time, and strain it. If to be 
kept any time, an ounce of loaf sugar 
should be boiled with it. 

COCKLES.*—This fish should be pro- 
cured a day or two before they are want- 
ed, that they may be cleaned as much as 


»«, possible from the grits ; they are cleansed 
a3 follows: put the cockles into a tub 


with plenty of water, and stir them up 
two or three times a day with a birch- 
broom ; change the water each day; and 
when properly cleaned, put them into a 
saucepan with hot water, and boil them. 
As soon as the shells open, they are 
done, they should be served very hot. 
Cocxte Catsup.— Wash the quantity 
of cockles you may require in their own 
liquor, and having pounded them, to 
every pint of the paste, put an equal 
quantity of sherry; boil them, and put 
tothem an ounce of salt, the same of 
cayenne, and two drachms of pounded 
mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and 
rub it through a sieve. When quite cold, 
bottle it. Keep it tightly corked. 
Cucxte Catsup.— Open the cockles, 
scald them in their own liquor; when 
the liquor settles, add a little water, if 
you have not enough; strain through a 
cloth, then season with every savoury 
spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, 
anchovies, and garlick—if for white, omit 


(193) 


COC 

these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon- 
juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, and white 
pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar 
for colouring. 

Cocxies Piekled.—Boil two quarts of 
cockles in their own liquor for half an 
heur, skimming them well; then take 
‘out the cockles, strain the liquor threugh 
a cloth; take a pint of it, and add to 
it three quarters of an ounce of mace, 
and half an ounce of cloves, boil these to- 
gether once, and then put it to the 


cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it - 


well, add to this a spoonful of salt, three 
quarters of a pint of white wine vinegar; 
and a quarter of an ounce of whole pep- 
per, and let it stand. When cold, put the 
cockles in small barrels or jars, as close 
as they will lay; pour in on them as 
much liquor as you possibly can, and as 
it soaks in put in more. Cover them 
very close. They may be soon eaten. 

Cocxte Sauce.—Scald the cockles in 
their own liquor, and when the liquor 
settles, adda little water if necessary ; 
strain, and season with all sorts of spices 3 
and for brown sauce put in a little port 
wine, garlic, and an anchovy; but if 
the sauce is to be white, then, instead of 
these latter ingredients, use sherry, 
lemon-juice, mace, nutmeg, white pep- 
per, and lemon-peel. Cockle sauce is 
also made in the same way as oyster 
sauce. 

COCOA Nut Sweetmeat.*—Cut the 
nut out of the shell, pare it carefully,and 
throw it into cold water; then grate it, 
and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to 
each pound of the cocoa nut) until quite 
thick ; stir it frequently to prevent its 
burning. Then pour it on a well but- 
tered dish or marble slab, and cut it 
into whatever forms you think proper. 

Another way.*—Proceed as above, but 
do not boil the sugar so thick by a great 
deal; then stir into if whilst hot the 
yolks of six eggs ; this must be served in. 
jelly glasses. 

COCOTTES.*— Take a number of 
small cups, and putin each a small piece 
of butter, break a new laid egg into every 
cup}; season them with pepper and salt ; 
set them over hot ashes, and pass a 
salamander over the top. 

COCK’S-COMBS and Kidneys in 


Aspic.*—Place an aspic mould in a ves-- 


sel full of pounded ice; pour into this 
mould some aspic, (about an inch thick), 
and ornament it according to your fancy, 
with truffles, the whites of hard eggs, 
gherkins, cray-fish tails, and cocks’ kid- 
nies ; when that is done, pour:in a little 


more aspic, taking care not to derange _ 


the ornaments; as soon asit is set, fill up 
your ee — the cock’s-combs and 





COC 


kidnies, leaving a small space at the top, 
which fill up with the aspic. When 
wanted for table, dip the mould into 
warm water an instant, and then turn it 
out; through a reed, blow away whatever 
pieces of the jelly may remain about the 
dish, dry it, and serve with the sauce of 
a chicken tricassée reduced to a jelly, 
and thickened with the yolks of four 
eggs; strain it, and add a dozen cham- 
pignons, trimmed and done up in butter 
and lemon-juice. Small moulds may be 
used instead of this large one. 

Cocx’s-comss Farced.—Make a force- 
meat as follows :—chop up some beef mar- 
row, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, 
and pound them ina mortar with salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg 
well beaten. Then, having parboiled the 
eock’s-combs, open them at the largest 
end, and fill them with the forcemeat. 
Stew them gently for halfan hour in rich 
gravy, to which add the yolk of an egg 
well beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh 
or pickled mushrooms, or both, if you 
think proper, - : 

ock’s-comBs, to Force.—Parboil some 
cock’s-combs, then open them with the 
point ofa small knife at the great end; 
take the white of a fow], as much bacon 
and beef marrow, cut these small, and 
‘beat them fine in a marble mortar: 
season them withsalt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg, and mix it with an egg; fill the 
cock’s-combs, and stew them in a little 
strong gravy gently for half an hour; 
then slice in some fresh mushrooms and 
a few pickled ones; then beat up the 
yolk of an egg in alittle gravy, stirring 
it; season with salt. When they are 
done enough, dish them in little dishes 
or plates. 

Cock’s-comgs (Fricassée of).—Put a 
slice of ham into a stewpan, with mush- 
rooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay-leaf, 
thyme, and butter; when they have 
soaked together a short time, add a little 
flour and some broth, and then strain it. 
In the meantime, scald the cock’s-combs, 
and boil them in broth, with a few slices 
of lemon ; put them into the above sauce, 
and thicken it with cream and yolks of 
eggs; flavour it with pepper, salt and 
lemon-juice, and serve it with any sauce 
your please. Garnish your dish with 
force-meat balls, hard eggs, or small 
onions. 

Cock’s-comgs Pickled. —Scald the 
cock’s-combs, take off the skins, and 
stew them for half an hour in white wine 
vinegar, with cloves,mace, allspice,whole 
pepper, bay-leaves and bay-salt; then 
put them in ajar, and when cold cover 
them with mutton-suet, and tie them 
tight over. When they are wanted take 


*, 6 





( 174 ). 


them out of the pickle, and lay them in - 
warm water for an hour. . 











coD 


| eo 
Cock’s-comss, to preserve.—Let them . 


be well cleaned, then put them intoa pot. 
with some melted bacon, and boil them 


a little; about half an hour after, add a 
little bay-salt, some pepper, a little vine- 
gar, a lemon sliced, and an onion stuck 
with cloves. When the bacon begins to. 
stick to the pot, take them up, put them 
into the pan you would keep in, lay a 
clean linen cloth over them, and pour 
clarified melted butter, over them, to 
keep them close from the air. 

Cocx’s-comes and Kidnies au blanc, 
(Ragodt of).*— Having blanched the. 
cocks’-combs and kidnies, put them into 
a saucepan with a little consommé, sauce 
tournée, mushrooms, préviously dressed 
veal sweetbreads, fowls’ livers, blanched 
and sliced, truffles also cut.in slices, 
artichoke bottoms, and quenelles of fowl. 
Thicken the whole with yolks of eggs. 
Serve with a sippet and a little lemon or 
verjuice, 

Cocx’s-comss au Velouté.* — Parboil 
your cock’s-combs in a bane, and having 
drained them, put them into a stewpan 
with velouté or sauce tournée ; let them 
boil gently for a quarter of an hour, 
thicken the sauce, and finish witha little 
butter and lemon-juice. 

Cocx’s-comBsand Kidnies auV elouté.* 
—Boil some cock’s-combs and kidnies in 
a blanc, and then drain them ; put some 
velouté reduced with a little fowl-jelly 
into a stewpan, throw in the cock’s- 
combs and kidnies, simmer them for 
about seven or eight minutes, and finish 
it with a sippet and lemon-juice, and 
serve it. 

COD.—A cod-fish should be firm and 
white, the gills red, and the eye lively ; 
a fine fish is very thick dbout the neck 3 
if the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. 
Those which come from the Dogger 
Bank are reckoned the best. Cod isin 
its prime during the months of October 
and November, if the weather be cold ; 
from the latter end of March to May, 
cod is also very fine. The length of time 
it requires for boiling depends on the 
size of the fish, which varies from one 
pound to twenty; a small fish, about two 
or three pounds weight will be sufficiently 
boiled in a quarter of an hour or twenty 
minutes after the water boils. Prepare 
a cod for dressing in the following man- 
ner :—empty and wash it thoroughly, 
scrape off all the scales, cut open the 
belly, and wash and dry it well, rub a 
little salt inside, or lay it for an hour in 
strong brine. The simple way of dress- 
ing it is as follows:—Tie up the head, 
and put it into a fish-kettle, with plenty 








COD 


of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and 
serve it with oyster sauce. Lay a napkin 
under the fish, and garnish with slices 
of lemon, horse-radish, &c. 

Cop Baked.*—Soak a fine piece of fresh 
cod in melted butter, with parsley and 
sweet herbs shred very fine; let it stand 
over the fire for some time, and then 
bake it. Letitbe of a good colour. 

Another Way.* —Chuse a fine large 
cou, clean it well, and open the under 
part to the bone, and. put in a stuffing 
made with beef suet, parsley, sweet herbs 
shred fine, an egg, and seasoned with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace and grated 
lemon-peel ; put this inside the cod, sew 
it up, wrap itina buttered paper, and 
peas it ; baste it well with melted but- 

er. 

Cop au Court Boutlion.* — Boil the 
cod gently in a fish-kettle, with water, 
salt, vinegar, a glass of wine, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it cold on 
a napkin. 

Cop en Dauphin-*—Your cod being 
properly prepared, marinate it for a 
couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, 
pepper, scallions, bay-leaf, parsley, 
and garlic. Then pass an iron skewer 
through the eyes, the middle of the 
body, and bring it out at the tail, making 
it in the form ofa dolphin; placeit ina 
baking pan, baste it with the marinade, 
and bake it. When sufficiently done, 
take out the skewer, put it ona dish, 
and pour over it the following ra- 
goiit :-—Boil up (separately) three carps’ 
roes, and some asparagus heads, and 
then put them into a stewpan witha bit 
of butter, mushrooms, parsley, and scal- 
lions ; do them over the fire, and adda 
- pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and 
the same of soup mazgre. When the 
ragoit is sufficiently done, thicken it with 
three yolks of eggs, and some cream. 

Cop with Herbs.*—Prepare a_cod, and 
lay it in salt and water; when it has 
been in an hour, place it in a table dish, 
with sweet herbs ready cooked, and but- 
ter ; Season with aalt, pepper, nutmeg, 
and spices in powder; sprinkle the fish 
with drippings, moisten it with a bottle 
of white wine, baste it frequently with 
melted butter, and bake it; when done, 
squeeze the juice of two lemons over it. 

Cop Pie.—Lay a fine piece of fresh cod 
in salt for several hours, then wash it 
well, season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg 
and mace; place it in a dish, with a 
little butter and some good stock. Lay 
a crust over, and bake it; when done, 


pour in a sauce, made as follows:—a 


spoonful of stock, a quarter of a pint of 
cream, flour and butter, grate in a little 


(175 ) 


cOD 


nutmeg and lemon-peel, and a few oyse 
ters, boil the whole once. . : 

Cop in Salt Water.*—The cod being 
properly cleaned and prepared, rub it all 
over with lemon-juice, and put it into the 
fish-kettle with salt and water, two or 
three bay-leaves, an equal number of 
cloves of garlic, some slices of Onion, 
parsley, and a glass of verjuice; let it 
stand over the fire (taking care that it. 
does not boil) until sufficiently done ; 
then drain and serve it on a napkin, gar- 
nished with parsley. Serve with it any 
fish sauce you think proper. 

Cop Sauce.—Take a bunch of parsley, 
chibbol, two shalots, two cloves, a bay- 
leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of but- 
ter; soak all together on the fire, adding 
a small spoonful of flour and milk or 
cream sufficient to boil to the consis- 
tence of a sauce; and add toit some 
chopped parsley, first scalded. 

Cop Stuffed.*—Chuse a fine large cod, 
and having cleaned and washed it, lay 
itan hour in salt and water; drain it, 
and fill the body with a farce, made of 
pounded whitings and anchovies; place 
it On a table-dish, pour over it a buttle of 
white wine, butter, andchopped parsley $ 
then bake it, and when done, drain off 
the fat, without removing from the dish? 
Cover it with sauce @ la Menehoult, 
strew bread-crumbs, and a little Parme- 
san cheese grated over the fish, and with 
a feather do it over with melted butter; 
colour it in the oven, drain it again, 
clean the dish, and serve with a white 
sauce /talienne. 

Cop (Scollops of) en bonne Morue.— 
Work three spoonsfulsof béchamelle over 
the fire with a good bit of butter, season- 
ed with pepper and salt; then put in 
some flakes of cold cod, stir them about 
in the sauce, and then let them remain 
in the sauce till cold. Lay some fried 
bread round the edge of a dish, put the | 
flakes or scollops of cod in the centre, — 
smooth them with a knife, strew bread- | 
crumbs over, and brown it with the sala- 
mander. Garnish your dish with toasted | 
bread cut in different forms, and placed © 
alternately. | 

Cop a la Maitre d’ Hétel.—Put the | 
flakes of cod into amaztre d’hétel, season 
them well, and add the juice of a lemon. 
Serve them very hot. 

Cop (Scollops of ) in a Vol au Vent.— | 
Prepare the sauce and fish as for Bonne | 
Morue, but not quite so thick. Placea | 
Vol au Vent inthe table dish, and put | 
the cod into it; do not, however, put it | 
in until just as it ought to go to table. | 
Cream sauce may be used en mazgre. | 

Cop (Salt).*—The flesh of good salt 


~~ 























coD 


cod is very white, and the flakes large ; 
the skin is very dark, almost. black, and 
before it is dressed it should be soaked 
in milk and water, or water alone, for 
several hours; if very dry and salt, a 
whole day will not be too long. When 
you think the salt sufficiently soaked 
out, put the fish into a fish kettle with 
plenty of cold water, set it on the fire; 


when nearly boiling, skim it, and let it. 


simmer gently till done. Serve with it 
egg"sauce, and garnish your dish with 
parsnips or potatoes. To make the fol- 
lowing dishes, the fish should be pre- 
viously parboiled. ” 

Cop (Salt) él’ Anglaise.*—Cut the fish 
in pieces, and put itin a stewpan, with 
melted butter, and a glass of broth 
maigre, cover it close, and let it stew. 
Meit some butter in an equal quantity 
of cream, add nutmeg grated, and when 
well mixed together, put it into your 
dish with the cod over it. 

Cop (Salt) au Beurre Rouw.*—Roli a 
piece of butter in a little flour and pow- 
dersugar, and brown it ; do some sliced 
onions in this; when they are a proper 
colour, add a spoonful of vinegar to 


them; boil up the whole once, and pour 


it on some flakes of boiled salt cod. Gar- 
dich with fried parsley. ; 
Cop (Sait) in Black Butter.* — Boil 
and drain the fish, put it.on the dish for 
table, with half a glass of vinegar, the 
same of broth, and some coarse pepper, 
place your dish over the fire, and let it 
boil for seven or eight minutes, and serve 
it with black butter poured over it. 
~ Cop (Salt) a la Bonne Femme. — Is 
prepared in the same way as @ la matire 
@hétel, with the addition of potatoes ; 
boil and let them stand till cold; then 
cut them into slices, the. size and thick- 
ness of a half crown; do them in the 


sauce with the fish. 


Cop (Salt) a la Bordelaise.*—Take 


an earthen dish that will bear the fire, | 


and put into it some olive oil, butter, a 
couple of anchovies, parsley, scallions, 
shalots, and garlic, all chopped small, 
and two or three slices of lemon; put it 
on the fire, and when of a proper con- 
sistence, put in thefish; let it soak and 
boil slowly for half an hour. Then grate 
bread over it, brown it with the salaman- 
der, and serve it hot. 
- Cop (Salt) a la Bourguignotie.*—Cut 
half-a-dozen large onions into rings, and 
colour them in some butter; then make 
a roux of butter, clarify, and put it 
to the onions, with salt, pepper, and 
vinegar. Dress your cod as for maftre 
a@hétel, drain and dish it, Serve with 
the above sauce. 

Cop (Salt) with Capers and Ancho- 





( 176 ) 


cop 


vées.*—Boil the cod as usual, and when 
done, drain and dish it; pour Over it 
some caper and anchovy sauce. == | | 
Cop (Sult) a la Créme.*—Soak and. 
boii the fish as a la ma#tre d’hétel ; melt 
some butter in a stewpan, with some 
flour, pepper, nutmeg and garlic; thicken 
it with the yolks of three eggs, add a glass 
of cream and some chopped parsley. Put 
the flakes of cod into this sauce ; let 
them boil gently a short time, and serve 
it quite hot. Or, when you have put 
the cod into the sauce, bread and bake 
it ; take off all;the fat before you serve, 
and add mushrooms, artichoke-bottoms, 
and asparagus-heads. — Lf Seo ES 
Cop (Salt) Croqueties of.*—Cut some 
ready dressed salt cod into dice, and put 
them into a stewpan, with a quarter ofa 
pound of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of 
cream ; putit on the fire, let it boil up 
once, and stir it, that all may be well 
mixed, and then let it stand; when cold 
divide it into fifteen or twenty heaps ; 
shape and bread them; break four or 
five eggs, season and beat them up well, 
dip the croguettes into it, bread thema 
second time, and just before they aré 
wanted, fry them in very hot lard. Let 
them be of a nice colour, lay them on a 
cloth a minute, and then place them in 
a pyramidal form on a bed of fried pars- 


ey. 

Cop (Salt) Fried.*—Boil and pull a 
cod into flakes, and put it into some 
béchamelie, let it cool in this sauce. 
Place the flakes in little heaps, bread 
them, dip each heap into some well 
beaten eggs, bread them a second time, 
fry them of a nice colour, and serve with 
orange-juice and fried parsley. “i 

Cop (Salt) Fritters.* — Dip some 
flakes of previously boiled cod in a bat- 
ter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very 
little salt; fry, and garnish with fried 


parsley. 

Cop (Salt) ad la Languedocienne.* — 
Make a sauce witha bit of butter, salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and sweet 
herbs minced, halfa glass of sweet oil and 
some bread crumbled ; when sufficient] 
thick and well flavoured, put in the tai 
of a salt cod,and stew it gently for half 
an hour; serve it hot, and squeeze the 
juice of half a lemon over. f 

Cop (Salt) dé la Lyonaise.—Fry some - 
onions, cut into dice, very brown in but- 
ter, sprinkle them with flour, and adda 
little milk or cream; season it well. 

Cop (Salt) d@ la Maitre d’ Hétel.*— 
Soak your fish (if very salt) ior a whole 
day in milk and water, afterwards soak 
it in hot water, take off the scales, 
and put the fish into cold water on the 








COD (07%) COD 


fire; when it has boiled up several 
times, skim, and cover it close for a mi- 
nute ; then drain and put it into a stew- 
pan with butter, parsley, scallions cut 
small, salt, coarse pepper, and grated 
nutmeg. When the butter is melted and 
wellsoaked into the fish, serve it with 
sauce @ la Mattre d’Hétel, and lemon- 
juice. 

Cop (Salt) a la Maitre d’ Hétel.*—Put 
the fish when soaked, &c. intoa fish- 
kettle with cold water; when near boil- 
ing, skim it, and the moment it does boil 
take it from the fire, and cover it with a 
cloth for seven or eight minutes ; then 
drain and place the fish, with parsley, 
chopped scallions, pepper, nutmeg, a bit 
of butter, anda spoonful of sweet oil on 
a dish, make it quite hot, and serve im- 
mediately. 

Cop (Salt) Marinated and Fried.*— 
Having boiled and flaked it, marinate it 
for two or three hours in a little water, 
with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, 
garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrots and 
cloves. Drain it well, and dry it, flour 
and fry it. Serve with fried parsley. 

Cop (Salt) Pie.*—Put some flakes of 
boiled cod (cold) into a puff paste, with 
butter, pepper and sweet herbs; when 
baked take out the herbs, and put into 
the pie some sauce &@ lacréme. 

Cop (Salt) &@ la Provengale.*—Pre- 
pare and boil the cod as @ la Matire 
d’ Hééel ; put it into a stewpan with fresh 
butter, pepper, nutmeg grated, shred 
parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, 
anda clove of garlic; mix this together 
well, and then put in your fish, make it 
quite hot, stirring constantly. Serve with 
the sauce over it and a little lemon-Juice. 

Second Vay.*—W hen the fish is boiled, 
take off the skin, bone, crush it witha 
spoon, and then pound it. Putitin a 
saucepan over the fire, and pour in, a 
little at a time, half a pound of sweet oil, 
shake it about, and to prevent its turn- 
ing, put in frequently some garlic- 
water. When the fish has thoroughly 
imbibed the oil, squeeze on it some 
lemon-juice, and serve it. Garnish with 
fried crusts. 

Third Way.*—Spread some butter on 
2 dish, and lay on it parsley, shalots, 
scallions, garlick, pepper, nutmeg, and 
a spoonful of oil. Place the cod (boiled 
and in flakes) on this seasoning, and 
cover it with the same; moisten it with 
sweet oil; strew bread-crumbs, drop a 
little more oil over, and colour it in the 
oven, or with a salamander. Lemon- 
juice may be added. 

Cop (Salt) en Stinquerque.*—Take a 
dish that will bear the fire, and put into 
it a bit of butter, with some parsley, 


scallions, garlic, and anchdles, all | 
minced, pepper, and a few whole capers; » 
on this put a layer of salt cod, then a - 


layer of the seasoning, and so on, alter- 
nately, until the dish is quite full; cover 
the whole with bread-crumbs, place the 
dish on a stove, let it boil_a little while. 
Brown it with the salamander. 

Cop (Salt) ws Verd-pré.*—Boil the 
fish in butter and sweet herbs; dish it, 
and cover it with parsley chopped very 
small; squeeze lemon-juice over, and 
serve it hot with any other seasoning. | 

Cop Sounds.—This is the white skin 
of the belly, and-is reckoned a great de- 
licacy, and may be either boiled, broiled, 
or fried. Previous to dressing either 
way, they should be well soaked, washed, 
and boiled a little. 

Cop Sounds, Boiled with Gravy.— 
Scald them in hot water, and rub them 
well with salt; blanch them, that is, 
take off the blacked dirty skin, then 
set them on in cold water, and let them 
simmer til! they begin to be tender; 
take them out, flour, and broil them 
on the gridiron. In the meantime, take 
alittle good gravy, a little mustard, a 
little bit of butter rolled in flour, give it 


a boil, season it with pepper and salt. , 


Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour 
the sauce over them. 

Cop Sounds, en Poule.—Make a force- 
meat with some chopped oysters and an- 
chovies, bread-crumbs, a little butter, 
bind it with two eggs, and seasom with 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash 
and boil in milk and water, three or four 
sounds, and when cold, put a layer of 
the forcemeat on each, and_rell them up 
in the form of chickens, and skewer 
them. Lard them, sprinkle flour over, 
and cook them gently in a Dutch oven. 
Serve with oyster-sauce. 

Cop (Salt), Tails of, &  Anglaise.— 
Make a sauce with the pulp of two le- 
mons, some anchovies cut into dice, 
shred parsley and scallions, a little pep- 
per, garlic, a small piece of butter, and 
about the same quantity of oil; heat it 
up gently, stirring it constantly. Pour 
half this sauce on a dish, place the salt 
cod (ready boiled) in it, garnish it with 
fried crusts, pour the remainder of the 
sauce over; cover it with raspings, and 
cook it in a slow oven for a quarter of an 
hour. Clean the edges of the dish, and 


serve. 

Cop (Salt) Tail of, forced.—Rub two 
handsful of bread-crumbs_ mixed with a 
pint of milk through a cullender ; boil it 
until the bread is very thick, and then 
set it to cool ; after this, put to it a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, parsley, 
chopped scallions, salt, pepper, and 


‘gid é 











COD 


drain the tail of a salted cod, take out 
all the meat, but leave in the bone; cut 
the meat to pieces; puf into a stewpan 4 
piece of butter, some mushrooms cut in 
bits, parsley, scallions, shalots, and gar- 
lic, all minced; do it up over the fire, 
then add a spoonful of flour, a little milk, 
and coarse pepper. Boil this until very 
thick, when the fish should be put in 
with the yolks of three eggs ; keep it on 
the fire, a little while, but do not let it 
boil, and then set it to cool. Put the 
tail bone on the table-dish, wrap theend 
in a buttered paper, surround the bone 
with part of the first mentioned mixture, 
then put in the ragoiit, cover it with the 
remainder of the farce, and form the 
whole into the shape of the cod’s tail, 
brush it over with egg, cover it with 
bread-crumbs, and bake it. When done, 
clean the edges of the dish, and put into 
it Some sauce made with a glass of stock, 
a bit of butter worked with flour, a spoon- 
ful of verjuice, salt, and pepper; thicken 
it over the fire. 

~CODLINGS, Grillées. — Take three 
fresh codlings, egg them over, shake 
them in flour, and broil them over a mo- 
derate fire, till well doné and of a good 
colour on both sides, or you may toss 
them in egg and crumbs of bread, as di- 
rected for turbot. Serve them with sauce 
a Vespagnole. 

-Copuines with Sweet Herbs.—Cut a 
codling into six or eight pieces, bone it 
as clean as possible, and marinate it in 
melted butter, lemon-juice, and all sorts 
of sweet herbs chopped ; then lay it on 
the table-dish with all the marinade,both 
under and over it; cover it with bread- 
erumbs, and add small bits of butter, or 
afew drops melted, close to each other ; 
bake it in the oven ; it will require but a 
short time baking. 

Copuines, pickled like Mangoes.— 
Make a brine of water and salt, strong 
enough to bear an egg; take codlings full 
grown, but not ripe ; let them lie in the 
brine for ten days, shifting the pickle 
once in two days; then dry them, and 
Scoop out the cores, take out the stalks 
80 that you may put them in again in the 
room of the core; fill them with ginger, 
sliced very thin, a clove of garlick, and 
whole mustard-seeds. Put in the piece 
of apple that belongs to the stalk, and 
tie it up tight; put to them as much 
white-wine vinegar with cloves of gar- 
lic, whole mustard-seed, and sliced 
ginger as will cover them: pour this 
pickle upon them boiling hot every other 
day for a fortnight or three weeks, and 
keep them in stone jars. This will imi- 


(178 ) 
the sols of six eggs. Boil and’ 


COF 

tate the real mangoe better than’cu- 
cumber, ee 
Copiine Tart.—Scald some codlings, let 
them stand an hour in the same water 
covered, which will make them look 
green, then put them into your tart, 
either whole or quartered, put in sugar, 
and a little musk, close them up, and — 
let it bake; boil a quart of cream with. 
the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and 


a little musk; when your tart is half 


baked, cut it open, and pour your cream, 
&c. on the codlings; set it in the oven 
again for half an hour, then scrape some 
sugar over it, and serveitup hot. 

COFFEE.*—The coffee-pot should be’ 
three parts full of boiling water; the 
coffee is to be added a spoonful at a time 
and well stirred between each ; then boi 
gently, still stirring to prevent the mix- 
ture from boiling over as the coffee 
swells, and to force it into combination 
with the water, this will be effected in 
a few minutes, after which, the most 
gentle boiling must be kept up during 
an hour. The coffee must then be re- 
moved from the fire to settle, one or two 
spoonsful of cold water thrown in assists 
the clarification, and precipitates the 
grounds. In about an hour, or as soon 
as the liquor has become clear, it is to be 
poured into another vessel, taking care 
not to disturb the sediment. Sera 

Coffee made in this manner will be of 
the finest flavour, and may be kept three 
days in summer, and four or five in win- 
ter; when ordered for use, it only res 
quires heating in the coffee-pot, and may 
be served up at two minutes’ notice. 

The grounds or sediment which re- 
main, will make a second quantity of 
coffee, by boiling with fresh water for an 
hour; thisis frequently used by servants. 
As this process requires some time, and 
a little attention, it is frequently the 
custom for the cook to make it,in the 
evening, when the hurried work of the 
day is over. a 

Corres (French Methed of preparing 
zé).*—Ist. Let your coffee be dry, not in 
the least mouldy or damaged. 

2d. Divide the quantity that is to be 
roasted into two parts. 

3d. Roast the first part in a coffee- 
roaster, the handle of which must be 
kept constantly turning until the coffee 
becomes the colour of dried almonds or 
bread-raspings, and has lost one eighth 
of its weight. 5 See 

4th. Roast the second part until it as- 
sumes the.-fine brown colour of chesnuts, 
and has lost one-fifth of its weight. 

5th. Mix the two parts together, and 
grind them in a coffee-mill. 











CcOF (179 ) COF 


6th. Do not roast or make your coffee 
until the day itis wanted. 

7th. To two ounces of ground coffee, 
put four cups of cold water. Draw off 
this infusion, and put it aside. 

8th. Put to the coffee which remains 
in the ézggin, three cups of boiling water, 
then drain it off and add this infusion to 
that which has been put aside. By this 
method you obtain three cups more. 

When your coffee is wanted, heat it 
quickly in a silver coffee-pot, taking 
care not to let it boil, that the perfume 
may not be lost by undergoing any eva- 
poration. Then pour it into cups, which 
each person may sweeten according to 
his taste. 

Particular care should be taken not to 
make coffee in a tin vessel; it should be 
made either in a China vessel, or one of 
delft ware, orinone of silver. . 

For along time, the tin biggins, in- 

vented by Monsieur de Belloy, were 
made use of; but some person has since 
improved upon his plan, by making them 
in silver or porcelain, which are found 
to be muck better. 
_ CoFFEE, to make, a la Chausse.*—Put 
some ground coffee into a bag; heat. the 
mare or thé levé which has been made 
the day vefore ; and whilst it is boiling, 
put in the bag; then draw it off; pour 
the infusion several.times backwards and 
forwards; then heat it again ready for 
use. 

The mare which remains in the ,bag 
may be boiled up again, and may be 


|. made use of the next day. 


Corre (¢0 make with cold Water).* 
—Upon two ounces of coffee pour seven 
cups of cold water ; then boil it until the 
coffee falis to the bottom ; when the froth 
has disappeared, and it is clear at the 
top like boiling water, it must be taken 
off the fire and allowed to stand; but as 
it often requires clearing, a little cold 
water should be poured into it the in- 
stant it is taken off the fire from boiling. 
A quicker method of clearing it, is, by 
putting into it a small piece of isinglass. 
When it has stood a sufficient time to 
allow it to settle, pour off the infusion 
gently into another coflee-pot; itis then 
ready for use. 

After the infusion has been drawn off 
the mare, that is, the grouts or remains, 
may be boiled up again, to make coffee 
for the next day. This infusion is called 
mare or thé levé. 

CorFEE (to make with hot Water).*— 
Instead of pouring cold water upon the 
cofiee, boiling water must be poured 
upon it, taking care not to let the froth 
run over, which is to be prevented by 
pouring the water on the coffee by de- 


grees. It is then made the same as the 
preceding receipt. Ks ; 

Corres (to give the Flavour of Va- 
nilla).*—Take a handful of oats, very 
clean, and let them boil for five or six 
minutes in soft water; throw this away 3 
then fill it up with an equal quantity, 
and let it boil for half an hour; then 
pass this decoction through a silk sieve, 
and use it to make your coffee, which 
will require, by this means, the flavour 
of vanilla, and is most excellent. . 

Corrser, Blanemange of.—Roast two 
ounces of the best coffee; grind, and 
pour on it a glass of boiling water; let 
it stand, covered close; and when the 
coffee is precipitated, pour off the infu- 
sion, and mix it with six ounces of sugar, 
and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. 
Pound and extract your milk of almonds 
as directed in Blancemange of Cedruts. 
Divide the liquid, and fill your mould as 
therein explained. 

Corres Bonbons.—Take about a pint 
of coffee made with water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-sugar ; set it on the fire, 
and boil it to a high degree; then add a 
full pint of double cream, and let it boil 
again, keeping continually stirring till it 
comes to caramel height; to know when 
it is come to that point, you must have 
a bason of water by you; dip your finger 
in it, and put it quickly in your sugar, 
then in the water again, to remove the 
sugar, which will have stuck to it; take 
abit of itin your teeth; if it is hard in its 
crackling,take it off, itis sufficiently done; 
pour it upon a tin plate, which must be 
rubbed before with a little butter, or it 
will stick to the plate; then spread it 
with a rolling pin; (observe, the rolling 
pin must likewise be rubbed with butter, 
for fear it should stick); when it is warm, 
you may cut it into little squares, lo- 
zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them with a 
knife. 

Corres (Conserves).*—Clarify and boil 
to the first degree a pound of sugar ; take 
the sugar off the fire, and put into it one 
cup of coffee ; stir it about until it comes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserve 


may take the sugar and dry. ~ 


Viard and Beauvillier both recommend 
the coffee to be made very strong. 

Correr Cream.— Mix three cups of 
good coffee with one pint of cream, and 
sugar according to taste 3 boil them to- 
gether, and reduce them about one-third 3 
observe that the coffee must be. done as 
if it was for drinking alone, and settled 
very clear, before you mix it with the 
cream. ; 
- CoFFEE Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, 
and the same of thick cream together ; 











; 
‘ 
a 
: 
; 


es 





COF 
have then a quarter of a pound of raw 
coffee 3 roast it in a frying-pan, and when 
done of a good colour, while hot, put it 
into your boiled cream and milk; cover 
it close, and let it stand for an hour, 
then put it in the tammy; drain the 
liquor from, and squeeze it well to get 
the flavour of the coffee; mix in some 
clarified sugar, enough to sweeten it, 
boiled smooth; beat up the yolks of 
three eggs, which stir in with your 
cream; rub and squeeze it through the 
tammy, at the same time add isinglass 
enough to set it, and pour it in a mould, 
with ice round it as usual. 

Corres Cream.—Roast one ounce of 
coffee; put it hot into a pint and a half 
of boiling cream} boil these together a 
little, take it off, put in two dried giz- 
zards; cover this close, Jet it stand one 


hour; sweeten with double-refined su- 


gar; pass it two or three times through 
a sieve with a wooden spoon; put it into 
a dish with a tin on the top; set the dish 
on a gentle stove; put fire on the top 
upon the tin: when it has taken, set it 


“by. Serve it cold. 


Corres Cream Pdatissiére.*—Infuse a 


- quarter of a pound of fresh roasted coffee 


in three glasses of boiling milk; cover it 
close, and when nearly cold, pass it 
through a napkin; pour the infusion by 
degrees into a stewpan, in which are the 
yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of flour, 
and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the 
cream as directed, (see Cream Piitis- 
siére); add to the butter, as therein 
mentioned, a quarter of a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and the same of crushed sweet 
macaroons. 

Corres au Créme.*—Put two spoons- 
ful of coffee, with some sugar, into three 
pints of cold cream; boil it for half an 
hour, let it stand; beat up the yolks 
of eight eggs, strain them through a 
sieve, then mix the whole together. Put 
it in a bain marie, to simmer over a slow 
fire, keeping it constantly stirring. 

Corres (/Vhite) Cream.* — Boil for 
a quarter of an hour a litre of good milk 


’ with two ounces of roasted coffee, the 


same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and 
a small piece of lemon-peel ; after having 
strained the whole through a sieve, add 
to it halfa pound of powdered sugar, the 
yolks of six, and the whitesof three eggs, 
beaten together, with a spoonful of cream. 
Then place the cream upon a dish, over 
a stewpan full of boiling water ; when it 
is set, ice it over with sugar, and passa 
salamander over it; leave it to cvol before 
it is served. 

CorFrek (/Vhite) Cream.*—Infuse two 
ounces of roasted coffee in a gill of boiling 
cream for half an hour; then strain the 


. 


(180 ) 


COr 


cream through a napkin; ‘sweeten and 
add three yolks and two whole eggs; 
mix them well, and pass it through a 
bolting several times. Heat eight small 
custard moulds, by dipping them in warm 
water; having in the mean while boiled 
some sugar to grand cassé ; pour it into 
the moulds; then drain and fill them 
with the preparation, taking care to stir 
it well. Let them stand over a small 
fire, but with plenty of fire at the top; 
when done, turn them on a dish ; heat 
about a cupful of coffee a /’eax, and pour 
it over each cream, and serve them. 

CoFFEE Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in 
water till it wastes to a pint of jelly ; clear 
off the sediment and fat. Make a tea- 
cup of very strong coffee; clear it with 
« bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright 5 
pour it to the jelly, and adda pint of very 
good cream, and as much fine Lisbon 
sugar as‘is pleasant; give one boil up, 
and pour into the dish. 

Tt should jelly, but not be stiff. Ob- 
serve that your coffee be fresh. 

Corres Cream au Bain Marie.*—In- 
fuse a quarter of a pound of roasted 
coffee in six glasses of boiling milk; 
cover it close till lukewarm, then strain, 
and mix it a little at a time, with ten 
yolks, one whole egg, a grain of salt, and 
tea ounces of sugar. When thoroughly 
incorporated, strain it again, and finish 
as usual. See Cream au Bain Marie. 

CoFFEE Creama la Frangaise.*—Roast 
a quarter of a pound of coffee, and in- 
fuse it in five glasses of boiling milk; 
cover it close, and let it stand til luke- 
warm; then strain, and mix it with ten 
ounces of powder-sugar, a grain of salt, 
and the yolks of eight eggs. Then pro- 
ceed as directed in Cocoa Cream a la 
Francaise. 

Corres, Créme of, (Liqueur).*—Roast 
and grind half a pound of the best coffee, 
and infuse it for a week in three quarts 
of brandy; at the end of that time distil 
it in the bazn marie, but be careful not 
to have too much beat, as in that case 
the coffee is apt to rise, and by that 
means spoil the liqueur. Dissolve three 
pounds and a half of sugar in the same 
quantity of water} mix it with the li- 
queur, and then strain it. 

Correr, Small Custards of.* —Mea- 
sure fifteen of your moulds full of eream, 
and boil it; and having, in the mean 
time, lightly roasted three ounces of 
coffee, throw it into the boiling cream ; 
cover it close, and Jet it infuse for a 
quarter of an hour; then pass it through 
a napkin, and proceed as directed. (See 
Small Custards.) 

Corres Eggs.—Makesome good ee 
coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, an 











COF ( 181i ) COF 


sweeten it with sugar according to dis- 
cretion 5; beat up six yolks of eggs, with 
about four cups of coffee, and sift it; 
pour this into little moulds in the form 
of eggs, or of any other, (do not fill them 
quite), and bake in a mild oven, or a 

utch one, or with a brazing-pan; cover 
between two fires. They are made after 
this manner, in the shape of any fruits 
or birds, if you have proper moulds, 
either of copper or china, &c. 

Corree Fanchonnettes. * — Roast a 
quarter of a pound of coffee, and infuse 
it for a quarter of an hour in three glasses 
of milk; cover it quite close; pass it 
through a napkin, and then add it to 
the other ingredients, and proceed as 
directed. (See Fanchonnettes). 

' To flavour these with chocolate, grate 
a quarter of a pound, and mix with the 
other ingredients, instead of the coffee; 
in this latter, two ounces of sugar must 
be omitted. 

Corres au Fromage.—The mode of in- 
fusing coffee for creams is by throwing 
your coffee into the whole of your cream; 
but in making coffee au fromage, only 
use one halfof the cream for the infusion, 
which, when cold, mix with the other 
half. Beat the whole on ice, add isin- 
glass, and then fill the mould, &c. &«c. 

Correr Fromage Bavarois, of.* — 
Having roasted a quarter of a pound of 
cotfee, put it into two glasses of boiling 
milk, cover the infusion, and when about 
jukewarm, pass it through a napkin ; 
then mix with it half a pound of powder 
sugar, and six drachms of isinglass, and 
when they are perfectly incorporated, 
strain it again. Put your preparation 
into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it 
begins to take, mix with it a plate of 
whipped cream, and finish in the same 
manner as all other Fromages Bavarois. 

CorFreE Frothed or Whipped.*—Take 
a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, 
make a very strong infusion with it, and 
pass this through a straining bag; having 
dissolved three quarters of a pound of 
powder sugar in a pint of double cream, 
and the yolks of six eggs, put in the cof- 
fee, of which there should be no more 
than three cups, and whip it as directed 
for frothed cream. 

Corrre Ice Cream.— Make three 
dishes of strong coffee; pour it off very 
elear, to mix with three half pints of 
cream, or the same proportion for more 
or less, and three. quarters of a pound of 
sugar; boil a moment together, and 
when cold, ice it. 

Corrse Ice a I Italienne.*—Infuse a 
quarter of a pound of roasted coffee in a 
pint of double cream, boiling hot, for two 
hours, closely covered; half whip the 


whites of nine eggs, and having strained 
the cream from the coffee, mix it yith 
them, add half a pound of powder seer, 
and put it over a gentle fire till it begins 
to thicken ; then ice it in the usual way. 

Correr au Jaune d’ Guf.*—Put into 
a basin the yolk of an egg, and some 
sugar; then gently pour upon them one 
cup of coffee, carefully beat them to- 
gether that they may be well mixed $ 
add to them one cup of water; then put 
the whole into a bain-marie to warm, 
keeping it constantly stirring with a 
spoon to prevent its curdling ; when it 
is warm, serve it out in cups. You may 
add to it if you please a teaspoonful of 
orange flower water. 

Corres Jelly.*—Roast a quarter of a 
pound of the best coffee, and having made 
an infusion of it, strain, and add to it two 
glasses of white brandy, and some lemon- 
juice, and finish the jelly in the usual 
way. (See Currant Jelly framboisée.) 

Corres Jelly.*—Roast a quarter of @ 
pound of coffee over a moderate fire to 
a fine yellow; take it from the fire, set 
aside the eighth part of it, and throw the 
rest into three glasses of nearly boiling 
water; cover it close, and let it cool. In 
the meantime, boil half a glass of water, 
and pour it over the small portion of cof- 
fee, (which should be ground), adding a 
little isinglass; when perfectly clear, 
pour it to the other infusion, having pre- 
viously strained it through a silk sieve 3 
filter the whole, and mix it with three 
quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, 
and.an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass 
of kirschwasser. Finish with ice, as 
usual, 

Correr Milk.—Boil a desert spoonful 
of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, 
a quarter of an hour; then put into it a 
shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; 
let it boil a few minutes, and set it on 
the side of the fire to grow fine. 

Corres Parfait Amour. — For four 
bottles of brandy, take one pound of 
coffee in powder; a little salt, two cloves, 
a little cinnamon ; then mix all together 
for twelve hours before you distil it; two 
pounds of sugar, two bottles and half a 
pint ef water, clarified with whites of 
eggs, filtered through the paper. 

Corres Paste.—To half an ounce of 
gum dragon, dissolved in a glass of water, 
put an ounce of coffee powder; sift it in 
a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar, 
with as much sugar-powder as is neces- 
sary to give it a proper consigtence, and 
finish as all other pastes. 

Corres Pastils.—Take half a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar, have about the 
quantity of two cups of coffee made with 
pecs whicly put to your sugar, and mix 








COF 


well till you see it makes a royal paste, a 
little thickish, that you may take it upon 
a knife; then take halfa sheet of paper, 
and cover it with little round and flat 
drops, which we call pasti/s, of the size 
of a farthing; place it in the stove witha 
slow fire till it is quite dry, and take it 
off from the paper. 

- You may make them another way, viz. 
with ground coffee, which you sift very 
fine through a sieve, then adding a little 
water, to bring it tothe proper degree 
of liquidity, the same as the above. 


Correre (to Roast).* —Coffee should 


never be roasted but at the precise time 
of its being used, and then it should be 
watched with the greatest care, and made 
of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; 
above all, take care not to burn it, for a 
very few grains burnt will be sufficient 
to communicate a bitter and rancid taste 
to several pounds of coffee. It is the 
best way to roast it in a roaster, (over a 
charcoal! fire), which turns with the hand, 
as by that means it is not forgot, which 
often is the case when on a spit before 
the fire. 

' Corree Sugar.*—Put a cup of strong 
coffee into a preserving-pan, and add to 
it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar 
to make it thick, put it on a moderate 
fire, stirring it constantly; the moment 
it begins to bubble, take it off, and add 
two spoonstul of powder sugar; stir it 
with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar 
from the sides of the pan. As it cools it 
will thicken and become darker; dry it 
in a stove, and then pass it through a fine 
sieve. 

Corree (Syrup).*—Take two pounds 
of ground coffee, infuse one of the pounds 
of coffee in two pints of water, then let 
it. stand to settle, when clear, pour it off; 
then with this liquor infuse the other 
pound of coffee; boil half a pound of 
sugar to caramel height, colour it a deep 
red; then put it into the coffee to dis- 
solve ; then pour it into a pipkin with 
another half pound of sugar; carefully 
close the lid of the pipkin, and let it sim- 
mer for eight or nine hours; then strain 
it, and when cold, put it into bottles, cork 
them hermetically, and keep them in a 
cool place. 

When it is wanted for use, put some of 
the syrup into a cup, adding warm water 
aecording to the strength you wish to 
drink your coffee. 

The syrup of coffee is most. useful in 
travelling, when there is not time or 
conveniences for making coffee in the 
usual manner. 

Corres Tari.—Mix a little flour and 
cream, with one or two cups of good 
clear coffee, a bit of sugaryand three 


( 182) 


COF> 


eggs; boil it abont half an hour, stirring? 

continually, for fear it should catch at 
bottom ; put it into the paste, and whites: 
of eggs beat up and frothed upon it; 
without top-crust. er i 

Corrser Wafers.—To a common table-. 
spoonful of ground coffee, put a quarter 
of a pound of sugar powder, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of fine flour; mix them 
well together, with as much good cream, 
as will make the paste or batter pour out 
pretty thick from the spoon; the paste 
being prepared,.warm the wafer iron. 
on both sides, and rub it over with some 
butter, tied ina linen bag, or a bit of 
virgin wax; pour a spoonful of the bat- 
ter, and bake over a smart fire, turning 
the iron once or twice, until the wafer is 
done on both sides of a fine brown 
colour; if you would have them twisted, 
put them upon a mould, ready at hand 
for that purpose; put it up directly, as 
you take it out, and press it to the shape 
of whatever form you please, and so con- 
tinue; always keep them in a warm 
place. 

Corree (whzpped).—Upon three half 
pints of cream, put two cups of strong 
coffee cleared; add four yolks of new-laid 
eggs beat up, half a pound of sugar, and 
about as much more cream. 

Corres @ l’eau,Cream au bain marie.* 
—Infuse a quarter ofa pound of ground 
coffee in a glass of boiling water, let it 
stand, and when the coffee is settled, 
pour off the liquor into a preserving pan, 
in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar 
boiled to caramel; cover this closely, 
and dissolve the sugar over hot ashes. 
Then pour the coffee into five glasses of 
hot milk; mix them with the yolks of ten 
eggs and one whole, six ounces of powder 
sugar, and a grain of salt. Strain the 
cream, and finish in the usual way. See 
Cream au bain marie. 

Corres @ l’eau, Cream a la Fran- 
¢aise.*—Infuse a quarter of a pound of 
ground coffee in a glass of boiling water, 
when the coffee is precipitated, pour it 
off clear; boil a quarter of a~pound of 
sugar to caramel, pour the coffee into it, 
and then put it on hot ashes, that the 
sugar may dissolve gently, and when it 
is perfectly melted, stir in gradually the 
yolks of eight eggs, four glasses of boiling 
milk, and six ounces of sugar; after 
which put it on a moderate fire, stirring 
with a wooden spoon ; when it begins to 
simmer, pass it through a fine sieve, and 
let it stand till lukewarm ; then mix in 
six drachms of clarified isinglass, and 
finish as Cream &@ la Franegaése. 

Corre ad Veau, whipped Cream.*— 
Infuse two ounces of fresh ground coffee 
in half a glass of water; and when the 











will be hard; add forcemeat ba 


Ma COL ( 183 ) 


infusion is drawn off clear, put it to two 
ounces of sugar boiled to caramel; place 
it over hot ashes, and when the sugar is 
dissolved, let it cool; then mix it, and 
four ounces of powder sugar, with the 
whipped cream. See thatarticle. _ 

Corres d l'eau, Fromage Bavarois.* 
—-Put a quarter of a pound of ground cof- 
fee gradually into two glasses of boiling 
water; give it one boil, and when the 
froth is gone, put in a small piece of 
isinglass; let it stand a little while, 
and then pour it off clear. Add to this 
liquid half a pound of powder sugar, and 
six drachms of isinglass; proceed after 
this in the usual way. 

COLLOPS.—Cut some veal cutlets ; 
iry them a good brown, but not too 
much; take some good gravy, thicken 
it with a little flour, boil it a few minutes ; 
add cayenne, catsup, truffles, morels, 
salt, mushrooms pickled, grated lemon- 
peel; simmer this up, just heat the col- 
jops through, add what gravy came from 
them, but do not let them boil, or they 

lls, hard 
yolks of eggs; lay round little slices of 
bacon, notched and toasted, and sliced 
lemon. 

Cottors @ la Béchamelle.—Soak a slice 
of ham, with a- bit of butter, chopped 
parsley, shalots, and half a bay leaf; sim- 
mer these on a slow fire, about a quarter 
ofan hour; then add a spoonful of good 
‘cullis, as mueh cream, and a little flour 
and pepper; reduce the liquor till quite 
thick, and strain it in a sieve; cut the 
breasts of roasted poultry into small bits; 
put the meat into the sauce, with the 
yolk of one egg, and give them a few 
boilings together; cut also thin bits of 
paste, to what form you please, put this 
ragotit between two pieces, pinch all 
round to secure the sauce, and fry them 
of a fine brown colour. 

Coutors @ la Parisienne.*—Roll out 
about-a pound of drioche paste very thin, 
and lay on it at intervals, beginning at 
two inches from the edge, small portions 
of minced fowl or game, moisten the paste 
round each portion lightly, turn the plain 
part over, and with a round paste cutter, 
cut out the collops, taking care that the 
minced meat is in the centre of each. 
Leave them for two hours on a well- 
floured tin, fry them in a warm pan, 
and when of the proper colour, drain 
them on a napkin, and serve them. 

Coutors of Preserves.* — Roll out 
some pufl-paste very thin, wet it, and 
lay on it at intervals whatever preserves 
you think proper, roll your paste over, 
press the ends together, and lay them on 
a tin; just before they are wanted, fry 


COL 


them lightly; drain and sprinkle them 
with sugar; glaze and serve them. 

Fresh fruits may be used also, first 
stewing the fruit. 

Cottorps @ fa Russe.* Break four 
eggs into a stewpan, and mix with them 
two spoonsful of ficur, then half a glass of 
good cream, a spoonful of warm butter, 
and a grain of salt; when these are well 
mixed together, pour some of it intoa 


| large frying-pan, and fry it of a light 


‘colour on both sides; then take it out, 
and fry more in the same way, like pan- 
cakes, until you have a dozen very thin, 
cut each in half, and trim them into ob- 
long pieces all the same size: lay on 
each some guenelle, minced fowl or game, 
as if for croguettes ; wrap the fried batter 
round it, wetting the edges, that they 
may adhere properly, with a little of the 
batter, having reserved some for the pure 
pose ; then have ready beaten, six eggs 
and a little salt, mask them with bread- 
crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and 
serve them quickly. j 

Cottors, Scotch. — Cut veal cutlets 
(taken from the fillet) into small thin 
pieces, and fry them in a little boiling 
lard till ofa light brown colour. Drain 
them dry, put them into a stewpan, add 
cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched 
truffles, morels, pieces of artichoke bot- 
toms, some slices of throat sweetbreads, 
and egg balls. Let them simmer over a 
slow fire till tender, season to the palate, 
and serve them with rashers of broiled 
bacon round them. ; 

COLOURING (for Jellies, Cakes, &¢.) 
—For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains 
of cochineal in the finest powder, with a 
drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in 
half a pint of water very slowly, half an 
hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the 
size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, 
and some liquor poured over. 

For white, usealmonds finely powdered 
with a little drop of water; or use 
cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit 
of saffron steeped in the liquor, and 
squeezed. 

For green, pound spinach-leaves, or 
beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil 
in a teacupful in a saucepan of water, to 
take off the rawness. 

COLTSFOOT (Syrup of). — Take of 
coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two 
ounces, hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root 
one ounce; boil them in two quarts of 
spring water till one-fourth is consumed ; 
then strain it, and put to the liquor two 
pounds of fine powder-sugar ;_ clarify it 
with the whites of eggs, and boil it till it 
is nearly as thick as honey. 


RQ 





COR 


CONSERVES, Dried.—For all sorts of 
conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the 
quantity wanted; they are all made 
much after the same manner, the only 
difference being in the quantity of fruits 
proposed. Conserves are made. with all 
sorts of sweetmeat marmalade, sifted in 
a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a 
slow fire; use about halfa pound of the 
sugar thus prepared, to a quarter of a 
pound of sweetmeat marmalade; take 
the sugar off the fire to work them well 
together; warm the whole for a moment, 
and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose ; when itis cool it may be 
cut into cakes of what size you please. 

Conserve 0f Four Fruits.* — Take 
strawberries, currants, cherries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, 
put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, 
stirring it till reduced to half. Dissolve 
the sugar, skim, and boil it to cassé ; 
take it from the fire while you put in the 
juice, then put it on again, and give it 
one fboil, take it off, and keep stirring 
till the sugar bubbles, when the con- 
serve may be poured into moulds. 

Conserves, Hard in Moulds.*—These 
are made inthe same manner as other 
conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic 
water; and may be coloured like pas- 


tils. 

CONSOMME.*— Take eight or ten 
pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, 
two young ones, and four knuckles ef 
veal ; put these into a large pot, and fill 
it with strong broth ; skim it well, cool- 
ing it three or four times to make the 
scum rise, after which let it boil gently 3 
put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, 
and three cloves. When your meat is 
sufficiently done, pass the liquor through 
a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may 
be very clear. No salt need be put in 
if strong broth be used. 

ConsomME of Game.*—Is made in the 
same manner as with poultry, substitut- 
ing the backs, &c. of partridges or other 
game for the trimmings of fowls. 

_ConsomME Of Poultry.*—Lay a few 
slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a 
stewpan, and on them the trimmings of 

oultry, cover them with cansommé, and 

etit stand over a slow fire till the meat 
is quite warmed through ; then add more 
consommé, mushrooms, parsley and scal- 
lions, and then let the whole continue to 
boil tilldone. Strain it through:a silk 
sieve, and set it by for use. 

CORIANDER Dragées.— Take any 
quantity of coriander seeds, put them in 


( 184) 


cou 


the tossing-pan over the fire, and let — 


them warm; when they are warm throw 
in about half a glass of vinegar, stir them 


well till they are dry; have clarified — 
sugar, which boil in another pan; then — 
when the corianders are dry, add a little’ 


gum to them, and do the same again till 


they are dry, and continue so doing till 


you see the corianders are covered to 
the size you want to have them ; when 
that is done, take the corianders out 
from the pan, wash them well, and put 
them in again, and stir them well till 


they are all warm; then take your clari- _ 


fied sugar, which you have previously 
boiled to the first degree; when this is 


| done, put it in an instrument of copper, 
made on purpose for the operation, and 


at the bottom of which there is a little 
hole ; hang it up by a packthread string, 
that the sugar may fall from about a yard 
height into the pan where the corianders 
are; while the sugar falls into your pan 
keep stirring well your dragées till you 
see they are well pearled over, or rough 
and grainy; when they are sufficiently 


so, take them out, and place them in the 


stove to finish drying. . 
CortanpDERr Jces.—Bruise an ounce of 
coriander seed, infuse them about an 


hour in a pint of warm water, with halfa_ 
pound of sugar, and sift through a nap- — 


kin 5 then finish like otner ices. 


CorianpeR Sugared.* —These seeds i3 


are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almonds. 

CorrannEerR /Vater.—Having cleared 
your coriander seeds from the husks, put 
a handful into a quart of water, with a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and set it 
by to infuse for two or three hours; then 
pour the liquor out of one pot into ano- 
ther; strain it, and keep it for use. 

COUGLAUFFLE German.*—Take 
three pounds of flour, an ounce and a 
half of yeast, an ounce of fine salt, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, twelve eggs, 
the yolks of twelve more, twe pounds of 
fresh butter, three glasses of milk, and a 
quarter of a pound of sweet almonds. 
Proceed with these materials in the fol- 
lowing manner :—put the butter (having 
slightly warmed half a pound of it,) into 
a glazed pan, and with a large wooden 
spoon work it up for six or seven mi- 
nutes; then put in two whole eggs, and 
stir it two minutes; then add three 
yolks, and stir again two minutes 3 in this 
manner put in the wholenumber of eggs 
and yolks; which will produce a kind of 
smooth cream, Then by degrees mix in 
two pounds of the flour, dissolve the 
yeast in aglass of warm milk, strain it 
through a napkin, stir this in well, with 
another half pound of flour; make a 





—— OO ee 





cow ( 185 ) COW 


hollow in the paste, in which put the 
salt and sugar in powder; afterwards 
pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix 
the whole together with the remainder 
of the flour; continue to work it up 
for Some minutes after the whole in- 
gredieats are put in, adding a small 
quantity of warm milk, which will render 
it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter 
it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut 
in half, over the bottom of the mould, in 
forms, on which pour the paste care- 
lly, and in small quantities, so as not 
to derange the almonds. Place your 
mould in a warm, but not a hot place, 
that the cake may rise properly3 and 
when that operation has taken place, put 
if into a moderate oven, which should be 
kept closed ; in an hour’s time look at 
the Couglaufie, and if it be flexible, and 
of a light colour, let it remain thirty or 
forty minutes longer; but if it be firm 
and red it is sufficiently done; when 
taken from the mould, put it into the oven 
again for a few minutes. 

CouctLaurries Smail.* — To make a 
dozen small couglaufiles, take three quar- 
ters of a pound of flour, three drachms 
of yeast, two of salt, two whole eggs, 
three yolks, two ounces.of sugar, a little 
cream, and halfa pound of butter. The 
preparation is made the same as the 
German Couglaufie. When the paste 
is made, divide it into twelve equal parts; 
butter a dozen small biscuit moulds, and 
fill each with your preparation, and let 
them stand: when risen so as to fill the 
moulds, put them into a brisk oven, and 
take them out as soon as they are of a 
light colonr. 

COUQUES.*—Put into a saucepan the 
yolks of sixteen eggs, the rinds of two 
lemons, half an ounce of salt, and two 
ounces of sugar; on these pour a pint of 
boiling cream, stirring it quick; set it 
on the fire, but donot let it boil, strain it 
through a bolting, and then let it cool; 
take two pounds of flour, and make a 
quarter of it into leaven with half an 
ounce of yeast and a little warm water, 
keep it rather moist, and put it into a 
warm place to rise: in the meantime, 
make the remainder of the flour into a 
paste, with the cream and a quarter of a 
pound of butter, knead it up five or six 
times ; then put in the leaven, and knead 
if again twice; tie it up in a floured 
cloth, and set it in a warm place. In 
about two hours take it out, and cut the 
paste in pieces the size of an egg, form 
them to that shape, and lay them on a 
baking tin, and leave them for half an 
hour to rise, then dorez and bake them 
in ahot oven; when done, open each on 
one side, take out alittle of the crumb, 


in the place of which put a bit of butter 
worked up with a little salt, and serve 


them. 

COURT BOUILLON.*—Cut a proper 
quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and 
turnips, and put them into a saucepan 
with butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, 
basil, salt, a mégnonette and cloves; 
sweat them over a gentle fire ; add white 
wine vinegar or verjuice; boil, and then 
strain it, and serve it with whatever you 
may require itfor. It is generally used 
for fish. 

Court Bouttion for ail sorts of Fresh 
Water Fish.*— Pat some water into a 
fish-kettle, with a quart of white wine, a 
slice of butter, salt, pepper, a large 
bunch of parsley and young onions, a 
clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaves, and 
basil all tiedjtogether, some sliced onions 
and some carrots ; boil the fish in this 
couré bouillon, (which will serve. for 
several times) and do not scale it; when 
the fish will admit of it, take care to boil 
it wrapped in a napkin, which makes it 
more easy to take out without danger of 
breaking. 

COW-HEEL Boiled.—Boil a cow-heel 
very gently in a large saucepan of soft 
water, with nearly a quart of milk, some 
salt, and four or five large onions ; when 
very tender the cow-heel will be done 
enough. Serve with the onions. 

Cow-HEeL Soup.—Take six pounds of 
mutton, five pounds of beef, and four of 
veal, the coarsest pieces will do; cut 
them across with a knife; put them into 
a pot with an old fowl beat to pieces, and 
the knuckle part of a ham: let these 
stew, without any liquor, over a very 
slow fire, but take care it does not burn 
to the pot; when it begins to stick to 
the bottom, stir it about, and then put 
in some good beef broth that has been 
well skimmed from the fat; put in 
some turnips, carrots and celery cut 
small, a bunch of sweet herbs and a bay- 
leaf, add some clear broth, and let 
it stew about an hour; while this is 
doing, take a cow-heel, splitit, and set 
it on to boilin some of the same broth ; 
when it is very tender, take it off, and 
set on a stewpan with some crusts of 
bread, and some more broth ; let them 
soak for eight or ten minutes ; when the 
soup is stewed enough, lay the crust in 
atureen, the two halves of the cow-heel 
upon them, and then pour on the soup; 
which will be very rich and good. 

-COW’S UDDER, and Verjuice Sauce. 
—Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into 
astewpan, with chopped parsley, chib- 
bol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and 
butter; letit catch; then add a giass of 
wags wine, broth, pepper and salt; 





| 


CRA 


simmer it to a thick sauce ; then make 
a liatsonwith the yolks of two eggs and 
broth; when ready add aspoonful of ver- 
juice, orlemon. _ "i 

- COWSLIP Pudding.—Get the flowers 
of a peck of cowslips, cut, and pound 
them small, with half a pound of Na- 
ples biscuits grated, and three pints of 
cream. 
them off the fire, and beat up sixteen 
eggs with a little cream and rose-water. 
Sweeten to your palate. Mix it all well 
together ; butter a dish, and pour it in. 
Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar 
over, and serve it up. 

Note.—New milk will do when you 
cannet get cream. 

Cowsuie Wme.*—One gallon of water, 
three pounds of lump-sugar, one Seville 
orange, and one lemon to every gallon of 
cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and 
water an hour, skim it clear, and when 
boiling, pour it out, and let it stand till 
nearly cold; then put it into the barrel, 
upon the pips, and about a teacupful 
_Of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel 
haif the number of oranges and lemons, 
squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the 
remainder into slices, which add with 
the peels, When the fermentation 
ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, 
put to the whole a little brandy. 

CRACKNELS.—Mix a quart of flour, 
half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four 
eggs beaten, with four spoonsful of rose- 
water, into a stiff paste, with cold water; 
then rub in a pound of butter, and make 
into a cracknel shape ; put them intoa 
kettle of boiling water, and boil them till 
they swim; then take them out, and put 
them into cold water; when hardened, 
lay them out to dry, and bake them on 
tin plates. 

Crackne.s( Small Soft)*.—Blanch half 
a pound of sweet almonds, and pound 
them to a fine paste, adding to them by 
degrees six eggs; when thoroughly 
pounded, pour on them a pound of pow- 
der sugar, the same of.butter, and the 
rinds ef two lemons grated; beat up 
these ingredients in. the mortar: put a 
pound of flour on a slab, and having 
poured the almond paste on it, knead 
them together until they are well incor- 
porated; roll it out, and cut the crack- 
nels into such forms as you may think 
proper, rub them with yolk of egg, and 
strew over them powder sugar or cinna- 
mon: then lay them ona buttered tin, 
and bake them in a moderate oven, tak- 
ing great care that they do not burn. 
When done, put them into glasses, and 
if preserved in a dry place they are the 
better for keeping. 

Crack-Nuts. — Mix together eight 


- €186) 3 
: ounces of flour, and eight ounces of su~ 


Boil them a little, then take | 
legs will be stiff, an 


| berries, and boile 





CRA 


gar; melt four ounces of butter in two 


| spoonsful of raisin wine; then, with fou 


eggs beaten and strained, make it int 


a paste; add carraways, roll itout as thin — 4 


as paper, cut with the top of a fs 
dust 


| wash with the white of an egg, an 


sugar over. Aig Fe: 
CRABS.—If fresh, the joints of the 
a the inside has an — 
agreeable smell. When light, they are 
watery; therefore, always choose the 


| heaviest. They are stale when the eyes. 


look dead. ed: 
Cras, to Boil.*—Choose: your crab of 


the middling size, put it mto boiling 
| water with salt in it, keep it boiling for 
about three quarters of an hour; when 


done, wipe the shell quite clean, and 
rub it over with a little butter. 


should be broken off, and the shell — 
cracked carefully, the tail cutdown the 
middle, and body sent up whole. | 
Crass, browned, and servedin the Shella 
—Leave the great shell whole, mince all 


the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms . q 


or trufiles, alittle young onion ; fry these; 
put in the minced crab, with the inside 
bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated 
lemon-peel; stir this about, shake on 
some flour, and add a little lemon-juice, 
with some good gravy; let this simmer 
up; fill the shell or shells; strew over 
bread-crumbs; brown them ina Dutch 
oven, or with asalamander. 
Crags, Buttered.—Pick out the fish, 
bruise the inside, beat it in a little gravy, 
with a little wine, some pepper, salt, 


| nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, a piece of 
| butter, with a very little flour, some 


vinegar or lemon-juice. " 
Cras, Fareed. —Boil a crab, take the 


/ meat out of the shell, and mince. the. 


claws. witha fresh eel; season it with 
salt, cloves, mace, and sweet herbs, 
shred small; mix them with the yolks of 
eggs; add grapes, maceeneraer or bar- 

artichokes eut. in 
dice, if in season, or asparagus ye. ; 


/ some almond paste, the meat of the bo 
| of the crab, and some bread grated j 


fill the shells with this compound, an 


also make some of it into balls, put them 
' into a dish with white wine and butter, 
-and bake them in a gentle oven; when 
i they are baked, put them into another 
| dish, and serve them with beaten butter, 
| large mace, scalded grapes, gooseberries, 
or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, 
| and the yolks of raw eggs 


dissolved in 
claret or white wine, and beat up with 
thick butter; pour this on the fish, gar- 


nish with slices of lemon, stick the balls 
of farced meat with pistachios, sliced al-- 


Before 
| they are sent to table, the largeclaws 








CRA 


monds, pine-apple seeds, or some pretty 
cuts in paste. i 

Cras Pie.—Take half a dozen crabs, 
boil them, and take the meat out of the 
shells, season it with salt and nutmeg, 
then soak the meat taken out of the 
bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some 
ginger, butter, and juice of orange; make 

our pie, lay some butter in the bottom, 
ay in the meat with artichoke-bottoms, 
the yolks of three or four hard eggs, 
chopped small; asparagus, large mace, 
barberries, grapes, dates, slices of orange 
and butter. When it is baked, liquor it 
with some of the meat out of the bodies 
of the crabs, mingled with cream cor 
awn butter. 

CRANBERRIES (different ways of 
dressing).—For pies and puddings, with 
a good deal of sugar. i 

Stewed in a jar, with the same} this 
Way they eat well with bread, and are 
very wholesome. Thus done, pressed, 
and strained, the juice makes a fine drink 
for people in fevers. 
CranperryJelly.—Make a very strong 
isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with 
a double quantity of cranberry-juice 
pressed, as directed in The different 
ways of dressing Cranberries; sweeten it, 
and boilit up ; then strain it intoa shape. 
The sugar must be good lump, or the 
jelly will not be clear. : 

Cranperry and Rice Jelly.—Boil and 
press the fruit, strain the juice, and, by 
degrees, mix into it as much ground rice 
as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; 
boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to 
your taste. Put it in a basin or form, 
and serve ¢o eat with milk or cream. 

CranBerry Jart.—This tart is made 
like all other fruit tarts; the best cran- 
berries should be used and well washed 5 
a quarter of a pound of sugar is the pro- 
per quantity for a es of cranberries; 
to this must be added the juice of half a 
lemon. Serve it cold. 

CRAY-FISH, Bisque of. —Take about 
fifty or sixty cray-fish, stew them ina 
little water, with carrots, onions, par- 
sley, thyme, bay-leaves, salt, and pep- 
per, for about an hour, then drain, and 
take them out of their shells; and having 
laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound 
the remainder of the meat with the 
breasts of two roast fowls, the crumbs of 
two French rolls, previously soaked in 
rich broth, and the yolks of three hard 
eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, 
and with the liquor, dilute the pounded 
meat, and rub the whole through a silk 
sieve. Boil a pint and a half of cream, 
keep it stirring, and pour on the soup; 
season it, and add the coral of a lobster 
‘pounded, and mixed with a little broth; 


( 187 ) 


CRA 


set the whole on the fire, but do not let 
it boil. When quite done, pour it 
into the tureen on some previously 
soaked bread, and put the tails which 
old reserved, on the soup, and serve it 

ot. 
Cray-Fisu, Brotled.*—The fish being 
boiled, take them out of their shells, and 
soak them for a quarter of an hour in 
white wine, with pepper, salt, and shred 
parsley ; soak also in the same way, an 
equal number of fish roes; tie these, al- 
ternately, on skewers, Cip them in egg, 
bread them lightly, and broil them of 
a nice colour. 

Cray-Fisu Butter (Sauce of).*—Boil 
your cray-fish in water, with vinegar, 
parsley, salt, and pepper ; take the meat 
from the shells, dry and pound it well 
with butter, set the whole on a gentle 
fire for a quarter of an hour, and pass it 
through a sieve into abasin of cold water 
and let it congeal. The shells must 
likewise be pounded, and mix them with 
the rest; if they donot make it sufficiently 
red, add a little orcanette root. 

Cray-FisH @ la Calonne.*—Take the 
number of cray-fish you may want, as 
fresh as possible ; split each in half, and 
put them into a stewpan with white 
wine, a little oil, a sliced lemon, salt and 
pepper, let them stew in this till done; 
then dish them; add to the liquor some 
blond, reduce, and strain it, and pour it 
over your cray-fish. 

Cray-FisH Cheese.*—Having washed 
and boiled the fish, as usual, take off the 
small clawsand tails, and set them aside. 
Chop up the meat that remains in the 
shells with some other fish, artichoke- 
bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter; mix 
them well, and put itin a dish in the 
form of a small cheese, round which lay 
the tails; cover it with bread-crumbs, 
and colour it in the oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

Cray-FisH Cream.—Boil apint of cream 
and some fine. sugar; reduce it to about 
half; pound the carcasses of eight or 
more cray-fish ; put them to this cream, 
with a fowl’s gizzard, and boil for 
about aquarter of an hour; then strain it 
several times, and bake it between two 
slow fires. 

Cray-FisH (Cullis of ).*—Wash and 
boil about thirty cray-fish in plain water, 
then take off the shells, and pound them 
well with the meat of the fish, and a 
dozen almonds. Cut a pound anda half 
of fillet of veal, and some ham into 
slices, and put them into a saucepan 
with an onion, carrots, and parsnips; 
do them until they are about the con- 
sistence of veal gravy; then add a little 
flour and melted bacon; put them on 








CRA (188 ) CRE 


again, and keep them stirring ; moisten 
the whole with good ries ih and add 
salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley 
scallions, champignons, truffles, an 

crusts of bread ; simmerit, take out the 
veal, put to it the pounded cray-fish, and 
then strain it. 

To make this cullis maigre, substitute 
butter for the bacon, and moisten it with 
fish broth. 

Cray-FisH (Cullis of, au gras).* — 
Takeabout thirty cray-fish of a moderate 
size, and after several times washing 
them, boil them in water; then pick 
them and put the shells aside, pound 
them and twelve sweet almonds and the 
eray-fish well in a mortar; then takea 
fillet of veal and a piece of ham, cut 
them into slices with an onion, and add 
some slices of carrots and parsnips ; when 
the whole has taken colour, add some 
melted bacon anda little flour ; let it sim- 
mer, stirring it well; then moisten the 
whole with some good atock or broth. 
Add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, 
young onions, mushrooms, truffles, crusts 
of bread, and let it simmer; then take 
out the veal, dilute the contents of the 
mortar with the juice, and strain the 
whole*through a sieve. 

Cray-Fisn (Cullis of, aumaigre).—In- 

stead of melted bacon, substitute butter; 
let whatever you make it of be only half 
browned, anid moisten it with good fish 
liquor; but, of course, acullis az matgre 
can never equal the excellence of a cullis 
au gras. 
. Cray-risu, Potted.— Having boiled 
the fish in salt and water, and picked out 
all the meat, sprinkle them with spice, 
pepper, and salt, and then pound it 
toa fine paste, adding a little butter; 
put it into pots, and cover them with 
clarified butter. 

Crab is potted in the same way. 

Cray-Fisn ad la Provencale.* — Boil 
your fish in equal quantities of wine and 
water, with salt, lemon, sweet herbs; 
shell them, remove the smali claws, and 
simmer them for halfan hour in whatever 


“sauce you please. Serve them with the 


sauce poured over, and around them. 
Cray-FisH, au Restaurant Glacé.*— 
Boil your fish in good broth, with two 
slices of veal, cut in dice; and when 
done, put them in your dish; add tothe 
liquor some veal or fowl gravy, and 
reduce it toa jelly, which pour over the 
cray-fish, put them in‘a cool place, that 
the jelly may set. Serve cold. 
Cray-FrisuH, Roasted.*—Put the fish 
to soak in hot wine, but donot boilthem; 
when well drained, stuff then with 
sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and 
basil; fasten them with skewers on a 


spit, and roast them before a gentle fire; 
baste them with their own dripping or 
boiling wine. — ; ge 

Cray-risu, Salad of.*—Boil cray-fish | 
as usual, take them from the shells, put 
them into a salad-bow! with anchovies, 
artichoke-bottoms, and seasoned like . 
other salads. — pes Br 

Cray-Fish Soup.—Put some eels, 
flounders, &c. into cold water, set them 
on the fire, and when near boiling, skim, 
and add to it onions, carrots, parsley, 
and whole pepper. Take about fifty 
cray-fish, and having taken them from 
their shells, put them into the fish-broth, 
also the small claws and tails, finely 
pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then 
strain it off; add some crusts of bread, 
and the spawn of a lobster pounded. 

Cray-Fiso Soup.—Boil six whitings, 
and a large eel, with as much water as 
will just cover them; skim them clean, 
and put in whole pepper, mace, gingers 
parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and 
three cloves ; boil them toa mash. Pick 
fifty cray-fish, pound the shells, and a 
small roll, but first boil them with @ 
little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs; 
put this liquor over the shells, on asieve ; 
then pour the other soup clear from the 
sediment; chop a lobster, and add this 
to it, with a quart of good beef gravy; 
and also the tails of the cray-fish, and 
some flour and butter, and season ac- 
cording to your taste. : 

CREAM, a PAnglaise.*—Take two 
yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, two ounces of candied 
orange and lemon-peel, five ounces of 
blanched pistachio nuts, beat these al} 
up ina mortar; add to them a pint of 
good milk, and boil them over a gentle 
fire, stirring it frequently to prevent its 
burning. When done, add five or six 
dreps of orange-flower water, pour the 
whole on a dish, and set it over the fire 
till the edges are brown; sprinkle sugar 
over, and salamander it. 

CreaM, au Bain-marie.*.— Mix up 
whatever ingredient of which the cream. 
is to be made, with eggs and sugar; for 
the proportions, see the respective ar- 
ticles ; strain them through a fine sieve, 
and pour the preparation into a mould 
lightly buttered within side. Put this 
mould into a large saucepan, with a suf- 
ficient quantity of boiling water to reach 
within an inch of the mould; place the 
saucepan on hot ashes, cover it, and 
place hot coals on the lid; renew the fire 
underneath occasionally, so as to keep 
the water at the same temperature, that 
is, nearly, but never quite, boiling for 
an hour and a half; then, ifthe cream is 
properly set, which may be known by 








CRE 


touching it with your finger, and observ- 
ing whether it may be easily detached 
from the mould, take it from the dain- 
marie and let it stand; when no more 
than lukewarm, turn it out on your dish. 

It sometimes happens, unavoidably, 
that bubbles arise on the surface of the 
cream; in such a case, boil a glass of 
cream, and add to it, by degrees, three 


yolks of eggs; stir it constantly witha | 


wooden spoon; mix three ounces of fine 
Sugar with it, and continue stirring it 
over the fire, till of a proper consistence, 
and on the point of boiling, then take it 
off and strain it. When the cream is 
ready for table, cover it completely with 
the last made cream, which will hide its 
defects. 

Cream Biscutts.— Break six eggs, 
separate the yolks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and thesame of flour; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together; add to it 
whipped cream, in proportion to the 
sugar and flour, stir it carefully, pour 
this into moulds or paper cases, and 
bake. | 

Cream Biscuits.*—Take six ounces 
of flour, two of powder-sugar, a pound 
anda half of cream, and the whites of 
twelve eggs; beat up the latter with the 
sugar and flour; whip the cream, and 
lay iton a sieve. When well drained, 
mix them together, and put the prepa- 
ration into cases, and bake in the usual 
way. 

Cream Biscuits.*—Put the yolks of 
three eggs into a pan with a quarter ofa 
pase of powder-sugar, on which has 

een rasped the zeste of a small cedrat ; 
beat them up for about ten minutes, and 
then whip the whites and mix them gra- 
dually with the yolks, an ounce and a 
half of dry sifted flour, and four spoons- 
ful of whipped cream. When theso in- 
gredients are well mixed and smooth, 
pour the paste into about a dozen small 
cases, glaze the tops of them with sifted 
sugar; when that is melted, put the 
biscuits into a gentle oven, and bake 
them for twenty, or five and twenty mi- 
nutes. : 

Cream, Burnt.--Set on the fire in a 
stewpan two table-spoonsful of clarified 
sugar, leave it on till it begins to burn 
and get brown; then shake it about, and 
put in an ounce ofratafia biscuit, a small 
piece of lemon-peel, sugar, and orange 
flower; stir it together; then put ina 
pint of new milk, boiled; when it has 
simmered by the side of the stove for 
twenty minutes, beat up four eggs, and 
the yolks of two, in a stewpan ; take the 
milk from the fire, and mix with it half 
a pint of good th 


( 189 ) 


j {let it boil till the cream is set. 
ick cream, then the 


CRE 


eggs, which rub through a tammy, and 
repeat it a second time. Rub some small 
moulds with clarified butter, and fill 
them with cream; have a large stew- 
pan on the fire with a very little water at 
the bottom, when it boils gently, put in 
your cream, and cover it close, with fire 
laid upon the cover (if you think proper; 
it may be put into one large mould).— 
When done, take them out of the water, 
wipe them, and turn them on a dish. 

Cream Cake.*- Puta pound of flour upon 
a pie-board; make a hole in the middle, 
put in halfa pint of clotted cream, and a 
little salt; mix the paste lightly, let it 
stand for half an hour, then add halfa 
pound of butter}; roll it out, five times, 
the same as puff-paste, and form it into 
small cakes; gild them with the yolk of 
egg, and bake in an oven. . 

Cream Cakes.—Sift some double-re- 
fined sugar; beat the whites of seven or 
eight eggs 5; shake in as many spoonsfal 
of the sugar; grate in the rind of a large » 
lemon; drop the froth on a paper, laid 
on tin, in lumps at a distance; sift a 
good deal of sugar over them; set them - 
in a moderate oven; the froth will rise 3 
just colour them 5 you may put raspberry 
jam, and stick two bottoms together 5 
put them in a cool oven to dry. 

Cream Cakes.*—Put into a stewpan 
two glasses of cream, a quarter ofa pound 
of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut small, 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Set it on the fire, 
and when it begins to boil, put it by the 
side of the stove; take out the lemon- 
peel, and add, by degrees, as much 
flour as the liquid will bear; keep stir- 
ring it constantly, and place it on the 
fire again, for five minutes, then pour it 
into a basin; add to it, one by one, as 
many eggs as will make the paste stick 
to the fingers; put the paste ona slab, 
and make your cakes of a round form, 

Cream au Caramel.*—Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit 
of cinnamon, some coriander-seeds, and 
the peel of a young lemon, into a sauce- 
pan, and boil them for a quarter of an 
hour; then take it off the fire; and 
boil a quarter of a pound of sugar with 
halfa glass of water, until it becomes of 
a nice dark colour; take it off the fire, 
and mix with the cream; then put iton 
the fire again, until the sugar and cream 
are well mixed together; then place a 
saucepan, with some hot water in it, over 
het ashes; take a dish, in which you in- 
tend serving, and pour into your cream, 
then place it in the saucepan; put on the 
lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and 
Serve 
hot. 





CRE 


Cream au Caramel au Bain Marie.* 
—Boil half a pound of sugar to caramel; 
pour a quarter of it into the bottom ofa 
mould which has been buttered, and which 
must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the 
sugar to extend over the bottom of the 
mould; dissolve the remainder of the 
caramel sugar with a glass of boiling 
water. When dissolved, mix it with five 
glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards 
with one whole egg, and ten yolks, a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, anda grainof salt; 
mix them together by degrees. Finish 
your preparation according to the direc- 
tions. See Cream au Bain Marie. 

Cream au Caramel Anisé au Bain 
Marie.*—Infuse a drachm of green, and 
the same of starred anise, in five glasses 
of boiling milk; keep it covered ; and in 
the mean while boil six ounces of sugar, 
to caramel, which must. then be dissolv- 
ed ina glass of boiling water. When the in- 
fusion is nearly cold, pour it to the sugar, 
and then mix both with ten yolks and 
one. whole egg, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, and a grain of salt. Stir it well, 
and then proceed in the usual way. See 
Cream au Bain Marie. 

Cream @ la Cardinale.*—Pound the 

shells of thirty boiled cray-fish; put 
them into some butter; mix them well 
together, till the whole is a fine red 
colour ; then pour on it a pint of boiling 
cream or milk (with a little sugar in it) ; 
boil them together for a quarter of an 
hour; pass it three times through a 
sieve; put to it the gizzards of two 
chickens; boil it for five minutes, to 
set it. 
- Cream au Chapelet.—Boil a pint of 
cream, to reduce it to half, with lemon- 
peel, cinnamon, coriander-seed, sugar, 
and the skin of a fowl’s gizzard, chopped 5 
strain it ; prepare a border for the dish: 
with some pounded chocolate, a spoonful 
of gum-dragon, melted thick, and sifted 
through a cloth; put fine suzar to it 
until it becomes a hard paste; roll bits 
of it into balls; put them to dry, and 
garnish the dish round with them. ‘The 
cream must be finished to your own 
taste; the balls are joined together with 
caramelled sugar in the form of crosses, 
or any other, and made to stand up round 
the cream. 

Cream ( Clotted).—Take four quarts of 
new milk, from the cow, and putitina 
broad earthen pan, and let it stand till 
the next day; then put it over a very 
slow fire for half an hour ; make it nearly 
hot to cream, then put it away till it is 
cold, and take the cream off, and beat it 
smooth with a spoon.. 

Cream (Clotted).—Take two quarts of 
new milk, a pint of cream, and three 


( 190 ) 


CRE 


spoonsful of rose-water. Put these to- 
gether into a large pan; set it over a 
charcoal fire, but not too hot ; letit stand 
twenty-four hours, and when you take it 
off, loosen the edge of the cream round 
about with a knife ; then take your board, 
lay the edges that are left beside the 
board; cut them into pieces, and put 
them into the dish first; then scrape 
sugar over them; take off the cream 
with your board as clean from the milk 
as you can, and lay it in the dish, and 
strew sugar over it. see 

Cream ( Clotted).—String four blades 
of mace on a thread; put them to a gill 
of new milk, and six spoonsful of rose- 
water; simmer a few minutes; then by 
degrees stir this liquor, strained into the 
yolks of two new eggs, well beaten. Stir 
the whole into a quart of very good creamy 
and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, 
but not boiling; pour it into a deep 
dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. 
Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with 
fruit. Some persons prefer it without 
any flavour but that of cream; in which 
cate use a quart of new milk and the 
cream, or do it like the Devonshire 
scalded cream. When done enough, a 
round mark will appear on the surface 
of the cream, the size of the bottom of. 
the pan it is done in, which in the coun- 
try they call the ring; and when that is 
seen, remove the pan from the fre. 

Cream Codling-—Pare and core twenty 
codlings ; beat them in a mortar, witha 
pint of cream ; strain it into a dish; and 
put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of 
wine to it. Stir it well. 

Cream ( Cold).—Take a pint of rhenish 
wine, anda good deal of fine sugar ; beat 
fine a quart of good cream, and a lemon 
cut round, a little nutmeg and cinnamon 
and a sprig of rosemary; pour them all 
together; let them stand a while; and 
beat them up with a rod till they rise; 
take it off with a spoon as it rises: lay 
it in a pot or glass, and then serve. 

Cream du Commissaire.*—Bone, and 
pound the meat of a roasted partridge, 
moistening it with a little consommé or 
veal gravy: then mix with it the yolks 
of six eggs, salt, pepper, and spice, in 
powder; rub the whole through a sieve 


into a dish, and cook it in the bam 


marie. . 

Cream (Crackling). — Beat up the 
yolks of as many eggs as will be suffi- 
cient for the quantity of cream you wish 
to make, pouring in milk as you beat 
them; then put in some rasped sugar 
and lemon-peel; set the dish upon a 
furnace, and keep continually stirring 
till the cream begins to be made; slacken 
your fire ; stir the cream without inter- 








CRE 


mission, turning it to the sides of the 
dish, till very little or none remains at 
the bottom, and that a border may be 
made round them, taking great care that 
it is not burnt. When it is ready, heat 
the fire-shovel red hot, and give ita fine 
colour; and with the point of a knife 
Joosen the whole border, that it may re- 
main entire. Then let it be put again 
into the same dish, and let it be dried in 
the oven, that very little may be left in 
the dish, and it will crackle in the 
mouth. 

» Cream Croguante.*—Take a pint of 
cream, half a pint of milk, the peel of a 
lemon grated, orange-flower water, four 

ounded macaroons; boil these until re- 

uced to half; then add two ounces of 
powder-sugar ; put into another sauce- 
pan the yolks of eight eggs, on which, 
pour the cream, a little at a time; put 
it on the fire, and stir it constantly until 
the cream is set; then spread it on a 
baking tin, keeping it about the thick- 
ness of a crown piece; place the tin on a 
trivet over the fire, and pars a salamander 
over the surface of the cream to dry it. 
When that is done, cut your cream into 
pieces of whatever form you may think 
proper; lay them on a dish, and put 
them in the oven till they crisp. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

- Cream (Snow).— Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well 
beaten, four spoonsful of sweet wine, 
sugar to»your taste, and a bit of lemon- 
peel ; whip it to a froth; remove the 
peel, and serve in a dish. 

. Cream (Curd).—Take a pint of cream; 
boil it with alittle mace, cinnamon, and 
rose-water, to make it sweet; when it is 
as cold as new milk, put in about half 
a spocnful of good rennet, and when it 
curds, serve it in a cream dish. 

Cream Custard.—Grate extremely fine 
the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it 
into a quart of cream, with half a pound 
of fresh butter, and the yolks of a dozen 
eges; put to them as much sugar as you 
please, then let it thicken over the fire ; 
make the custards shallow, and when they 
have stood half an hour in a slow oven, 
grate some loaf-sugar over them, and 
serve, i 

Cream (Devonshire, or Scaided).~—If in 
the winter, the milk should stand for 
four and twenty hours, but, if in the 
summer, it should stand only for tweive ; 
then the milk pan should be placed upon 
a hot hearth, provided you have one, if 
not, it should be placed in a wide brass 
kettle cf water, large enough to receive 
the pan. It must remain on the fire till 

nite hot, but on no account boil, or 
tees will be a skim instead ef cream 


( 191 ) 


CRE 


upon the milk. You will know when 
done enough, by the undulations on the 
surface looking thick, and having a ring 
round the pan the size of the bottom. 
The time required to scald cream, de- 
pends on the size of the pan and the heat 
of the fire; the slower the better. Re- 
move the pan into the dairy when done, 
and skim it next day. In cold weather 
it may stand thirty-six hours, and never 
less than two meals, 
Cream @ l’ Kau.*—Beat four eggs with 
a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, shred 
small, the juice of the same, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of powder-sugar. When 
well beaten, pass it two or three times 
through a napkin; then put itin a dish, 
over a gentle fire, stirring till it thickens 5 
dish it hot, but it must be served cold. 
CREAM (an excellent).—Whip up three 
quarters of a pint of very rich cream toa 
strong froth, with some finely-scraped 
lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon-juice, half 
aglass of sweet wine, and sugar to make 
it pleasant to the taste; lay it on a sieve 
or in a form, and the next day put itona 
dish, and ornament it with very light 
puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, 
the length of a finger, and about two 
thick; over which should be strewed 
sugar, or a little glaze, with isinglass. 
The edges of the dish may be lined with 
macaroons. 
Cream of Flowers. * — Take roses, 
violets, jessamine, pinks, and orange- 
flowers; pound them, adding a Hittle 
warm milk: press them in a clean cloth, 
and mix them witha pint of well-boiled 
cream; add the yoiks of six eggs, and 
sugar} strain, and put it into a dish; 
then place the dish on hot ashes ver 
and lay more coals on the top, and let it 
brat till thick, when it should be set to 
cool. 
Cream Franeaise au Caramel Anisé.* 
—Boil six ounces of sngar to caramel 
height, and when taken from the fire, 


| mix with it two drachms of green, and 


two of starred anise. When cold, dis- 
solve it with a glass of boiling water ; add 
gradually the yolks of eight eggs, ‘a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, four glasses 
of nearly boiling milk, and a grain of 
salt. The cream is then made according 
to the directions for Cacao Cream a la 
Frangaise. 

Cream Francaise au Marasquin.*— 
Boil four glasses of milk, and then mix 
it by degrees with the yolks of eight 
eggs, ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of 
salt; put these ingredients into a sauce- 
pan over a moderate fire, stirring con- 
stantly ; when it begins to simmer, strain 
it; add six drachms of isinglass to it: 
as soon as it is cold, put in half a glass of 








: 
i ; 
( 


eS ee ee ee 2 


CRE ( 192 ) CRE 


good maraschino, and complete the opera- } um 
Make your cream, with the additi 
six eggs, exactly the same as cream 


tion according to direction. See Cacao 
Cream a la Frangaise. ie 

- You may vary this recipe, by putting 
in halfa glass of arrack or rum, instead 


‘of the maraschino. 


. Cream Franeaise au Parfait Amour.* 
—Take ten ounces of lump-sugar, and 
rasp on it the zestes of two lemons anda 
eedrat; scrape the sugar as usual, and 
put it into five glasses of nearly boiling 
milk, with ten cloves, bruised ; cover it, 
and when nearly cold, add, a few ata 
time, the yolks of eight eggs, and a grain 
of salt. Thicken the cream over a mo- 
derate fire, and finish it as directed. 
See Cacao Cream a la Frangaise. 

Cream Francaise aux Quatre Zestés.* 
—Take a piece of sugar weighing ten 
ounces ; upon which rasp, in the usual 
way, the zestes of a lemon, a cedrat, a 
sweet and a seville orange; infuse the 
scraped sugar in five glasses of nearly 
boiling milk; cover it, and when no 
more than lukewarm, pour into it by 
degrees the yolks of eight eggs, with a 
grain of salt. Finish as directed. See 
Cacao Cream @ la Franeaise. 

Cream Fried.*—Boil half a pint ef 
milk with the peel of a lemon; put to 
two eggs as much flour as they will take 
up; then add four more eggs, and the 
boiling milk without the lemon-peel 3 
mix it well that there may be no lumps; 
set it over the fire, stirring it constantly ; 
in a quarter of an hour add a little salt, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, half an 
ounce of butter, anda few drops of orange 
flower-water ; finish boiling it, and then 
add the yulks of four eggs, two bitter ma- 
caroons,; and some marchpane crushed 
very small; pour this preparation on a 
buttered tin, spread it out for about an 
inch in thickness, and when cold, cut it 
into lozenges, circles, or such \other 
forms as you may like better; dip them 
inan omelet, cover them with bread- 
crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; 
drain them well, sprinkle powder sugar 
over, andserve them. — 

Cream Fried.*—Mix gradually into a 
stewpan about three spoonsful of flour, 
with six eggs, (the whites and yolks also) 
a little grated lemon-peel, some dried 
orange flowers shred fine, a pint of milk, 
a small lump of sugar, and a few grains 
of salt; boil the whole over a slow fire, 
fer half an hour, keeping constantly stir- 
ring; when the cream is very thick, 
spread it about the thickness of half an 
inch upon a floured dish, and shake some 
flour over it; when cold, you may cut it 
into any form you please, and-fry in a 
very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a 
salamander. . 





% 


Cream Fried, d@ la ‘Parisienne.’ - a 






bain marie; when quite cold, eutitinto 
pieces of whatever form you may chuse, _ 
either round, square, oval, &c., but do 
not make them above two inches long, 


or three quarters of an inch thick. 

Make a batter as follows; put three 
quarters of a pound of sifted flour into a 
pan, pour on it a little water, in which 
two ounces of butter have been melted; 
hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the — 

water aside, so as to pour the butter in 
first; then add+a sufficient pag of 
water to make your batter of a proper 
consistence ; when it will flow and quit 
the spoon readily, put ina pinch of salt, 
and the whites of two eggs whipped firm. 
Make your trying-pan quite hot, dip your 
cream into the batter, and fry it of a good: 
colour; drain the pieces, sprinkle them 
with powder sugar, and giaze them with 
the salamander. 

Any of the flavoured creams au bain 
marie, may be dressed in this manner, 
Instead of frying the cream in batter as 
above, you may bread them as follows : 
having beaten half a dozen eggs, dip in 
them each piece of cream, drain, and 
then mask them with bread crumbs. 
grated very small; dip them a second 
time in egg, and bread them again, taking 
care to preserve the form; fry, ake 
with sugar, and glaze them as the first 
mentioned. 

Cream Fried & la Patissiére.*—Put 
the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of 
sifted flour, three glasses of boiling milk, 
and a pinch of salt; make your cream in 
the usual way, (see Cream Patissiére ; 
then add a quarter of a pound of goo 
butter, the same of powder sugar, of 
sweet and hitter macaroons, a spoonful 
of orange-flowers praiinées. Pour your 
cream on a buttered baking-plate, and 
when cold, cut it in pieces, see fry it as 
fried cream a la Parisienne. 

Cream Fritters.*—Mix a handful of 
flour, with three whole eggs, and the 
yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, 
some dried orange flowers, browned in 
sugar, a little candied lemon-peel chop- 
ped very fine, half a pint of cream, half 
a pint of milk, and a lump of sugar; 
boil the whole over a gentle fire for a 
quarter of an hour, till the cream turns 
to a thick paste; then let it cool in a 
dish well floured, shaking flour all over 
it. When cold, cut the paste into small 
pieces, roll them in your hands till the 
become round, and fry them of a goo 
colour; when you serve them, powder 
them all over with sugar. __ ; 

Cream Fritters a la Dauphine.*—Take 








CRE 


the third part ‘of any cream pétissiére 
you please, and having rolled out the 
brioche paste, place on it, when cold, the 
cream in small pieces, cut the fritters, 
and finish them in the usual way. (See 
Fritters & la Dauphine.) 

Cream Fryoth.*—Put a pint of fresh 
double cream into a stone pan, with half 
a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of gum 

ragon, a little crisped orange-flower, 
and three drops of cedrat essence; when 
the sugar is dissolved, place the pan in 
another, in which is three pounds of 
ice beaten up with saltpetre; whip the 
cream in the usual manner, taking off 
the froth as it rises with a skimmer, lay 
it gently on a sieve over a pan; if the 
cream does not froth properly, add the 
whites of two eggs. This cream is usual- 
ly served in large silver or gilt goblets, 
and should be prepared two or three 
hours before it is wanted. 

Cream German.*— Boil a pint of 
Rheaish wine, some sugar, and cinna- 
mon, for half an hour; then add to it 
the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten and 
strained; mix them well, and cook it in 
the bain marie. 

Cream Gilazed.*—Put a small handfal 
of flour into a stewpan, with some lemon- 
peel, chopped very small, some orange- 
flowers, dried and pounded, and a lump 
of sugar; then beat up the yolks of eight 
eggs, with a pint of cream, and_halfa 
pint of milk, keeping the whites by them- 
selves; mix the yolks well together in 
the stewpan, with the flour and other in- 
_ gredients, and let them boil gently for 
- half an hour; when the cream is thick- 
ened, take it off the fire, and whip the 
whites of the eggs till they are well 
frothed ; then add them to the cream, 
and pour the whole into the dish for 
table ; strew sugar all over the cream ; 
put the dish into an oven of a moderate 
heat, and when the cream rises well, and 
is glazed, serve. To make it rise, the 
dish should be covered with the lid ofa 
saucepan, upon which fire should be 
placed. f 

Cream Hasty.—Take a gallon of milk, 
warm from the cow, set it on the fire, 
and when it begins to rise, take_it off the 


fire, and set it by; skim off all the 


eream, and put it intoa plate; then set 
the skillet over the fire again, and repeat 
the skimming till your plate is full of 
cream ; prt to it some orange: flower, and 
sugar, andso serve it. 


leer Cream IJmperial.— Boil a quart of 


cream with the thin rind of a lemon; 
then stir it till nearly cold; have ready 
ina dish or bowl that you are to serve 
in, the juice of three lemons strained, 
with as much sugar as will sweeten the 


( 193 ) 


CRE 


cream, which pour into the dish from a 
large teapot, holding it high, and moving 
it about to mix with the juice. It should 
be made at least six hours before it is 
served, and will be still better ifa day. 

Cream IJmperial.—Take a quart of 
water, six ounces of hartshorn; put them 
into a stone bottle, and tie it close down, 
do not fill it too full, and put it into a pot 
of boiling water, or in an oven to bake; 
let it stand three or four hours, strain it 
through a jelly bag, and let it cool; having 
ready six ounces of almonds beat very 
fine, put to them as much cream as jelly; 
mix them together, strain the almonds 
and cream, and set altogether over the 
fire till it is scalding hot; strain it into 
narrow bottom glasses, let them stand a 
whele day, and then turn them out; 
stick them all over with blanched al- 
monds, or pine-apple seeds laid in water 
a day before you peel them, and they 
will come out like a flower; then stick 
them on the cream. 

Cream Jtalian.*—Boil a pint and a 
half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it 
the peel of a young lemon, some corian- 
der seed, a bit of cinnamon, rather more 
than halfa quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and two or three grains of salt ; let it boil 
till half is consumed ; then let it stand 
to cool, and have ready in another stew- 
pan a little flour, beat up with the yolks 
of six eggs; stir it by degrees into the 
cream; strain it through a sieve, and put 
it in the dish for table, placing the dish 
in some hot water over the fire till the 
cream is set. Before serving, brown 
with a salamander. 

Cream Jtalian.*—Put a gill of good 
fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful 
of powder sugar, and a little orange- 
flower water, into a pan, and whip them 
up together; and when the cream is 
sufficiently thick, put it into a deep dish, 
with plenty of powder sugar; set it on 
hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on 
the top, which must be renewed until 
the cream is done enough; then let it 
cool, and serve it. 

Cream (to keep). —Cream already 
skimmed, may be kept twenty-four 
hours, if scalded without sugar; and by 
adding to it as much powdered lump 
sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will 
P good for two days, keeping in a cool 
place. 

Cream Light.*—Take a pint and a 
half ef milk, some sugar, lemon-peel, 
and orange-flower water: boil the 
whole tegether till reduced to half the 
quantity; then take it off the fire, 
and let it cool; in the meantime, beat 
up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of 
six eggs, gt the whites separate), 








Cpe." 


and gradually mix the yolks with the 
cream: strain the cream through a sieve, 
and put the vessel which contains it, in 
some boiling water over the fire ; when 
the cream is set, take the vessel out of 
the hot water, beat up the whites of your 
eggs to a froth,add to them some powdered 
sugar, and cover the cream with the 
whites of eggs, in the form of a dome; 
then bake it under a lid that will admit 
fire at the top; let the heat be moderate, 
and serve your cream ofa fine colour. 

Cream Loaf.—Take the crumb out of 
a good large round roll, rasped$; and 
soak the crust a little while in milk, 
sugar and lemon; then drain, and fill it 
up with frungipane cream, and stop it up 
with pieces of bread; put a little into the 
bottom of the dish in which you serve, 
the roll upen it, and put cream all over, 
with powder sugar; bake it in a pretty 
hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. 

Cream dla Madeleine.*—Beat up four 
eggs (whites and yolks together) with a 
pinch of flour, alittle grated lemon-pee}, 
a small piece of pounded cinnamon, 
some bitter almond biscuits pounded, 
half a spoonful of orange-flower water, a 
pint of cream, two ounces of sugar,and a 
little salt. Place a dish over some hot 
ashes, then pour in the ingredients well 
mixed together, and as soon as the cream 
thickens, glaze it, and serve. 

Cream Matden.— Take the whites of 
ten eggs, whip themtoa froth; put them 
into a saucepan, with milk, orange- 
flower water and sugar. Seta plateover 
astoye, putin a little cinnamon, beat up 
your cream well, and pour it into the 
plate. Then brown it with a red hot 
shovel, and serve. 

Creamau Nuturel.*~—Takesome fresh 
thin cream, and put it in a bowl, on ice, 
to covlit; add to it powder sugar and 
serve it. 

Cream Pancakes.—Put the yolks of 
two eggs into half a pint of cream, with 
two oances of sugar, and alittle beaten 
cinnamon, mace and nutmeg; mix the 
whole well together, and then fry them 
very carefully. 

Cream Piitisszere. — Put a pint of 
cream and the same of milk on the fire 
stirring constantly till it boils; then add 
two ounces of sugar, a little salt and 
the rind of a lemon: when the cream 
is sufficiently flavoured with the peel, 
beat up the yolks of eight eggs, mix 
them with the cream, and continue to 
stir it over the fire with a wocden spoon. 
As soon as it is very thick pour it intoa 
sieve, and prees it through with the 
spoon, aud then set it by for use. More 
eggs must be added if not thick enough 
for your purpose. 


(194) 


CRE 


_ Cream Patissiére.*—Put the yolks of, 
six eggs and two spoonsful of flour i ato 
a stewpan, mix them together with a 


spatula; add, a little at a time, three 


glasses of boiling cream and a grain of 
salt; put the whole on a moderate fire, 
stirring it round gently until it begins to 


stick to the spoon; then remove it for a. 


short time, still stirring; as soon as it. 
is of the proper consistence replace it on 


the fire, and continue to stir it the same 
way for ten or twelve minutes. After 
this heat a quarter of a pound of the best. 
fresh butter, keep stirring and skimming 


until it ceases to hiss, then leave it to 


colour lightly, and when it is suffi- 
ciently so, mix it with the cream, and 


pour it intoa pan, in which it must be 


incorporated with whatever ingredient 


may be desired. 

Cream Paitissiére and Checolate Cus- 
tard.* — Throw three quarters of a 
pound of chocolate, ond a clove of 
vanilla into twelve glasses of milk; 
cover it, and in a quarter of an hour 
pass the milk through a napkin ; puta 
few spoonsful of the infusion to the cho- 
colate which remains in the napkin, and 
pour them into a small pan. Then put 
three quarters of a pound of flour into a 
large saucepan, with four whole eggs, 
andthe yolks of twelve; pour the infu- 
sion in by degrees, with a very little 
salt ; set it on a moderate fire, and stir it 
constantly. As soon as it begins to 
thicken, take it from the fire to prevent 
its becoming lumpy; add to it half a 
pound of powder sugar, six ounces of 
butter, and dry it for a quarter of an 
hour, stirring it constantly. When it is 
a little cooled, put the chocolate and six 
eunces of sweet macaroons crushed. This 
preparation should be of the consistence 
of cream péitissiére; if not, add a few 
spoonsful of whipped cream; whip the 
twelve whites of the eggs pretty firm; mix 
them with the preparation; then pour it 
into a raised crust, and finish as usual. — 

Cream au Parfait Amour, au Bain 
Marie.* —Take ten ounces of Jump- 
sugar, and rasp on it the rinds of a lemon 
anda cedrat; throw the sugar scraped 
off into six glasses of boiling milk, with 
ten cloves; cover it close, and when 
nearly cold, mix it by degrees with ten 
yolks, and one whole egg, and strain it. 
Finish the cream as directed. See Cream 
au Bain Marie. : 

Cream Pompadour.—Take the whites 
of five eggs, and after beating them into 
a strong froth; put them intoa tossing 
pan, with two ounces of sugar, and two 


spoonsful of orange-flower water; Stir it 
gently three minutes, pour it into a dish, 
and melted butter over it ; serve it hot. 








CRE 


Cram Posset.— Take twelve eggs, 
leaving ont two or three whites, take out 
all the treads, and beat them well into 
the basin you make the posset in; add 
halfa pound of sugar, a pint of sack, and 
a nutmeg grated; stir it on a cha‘ting 
dish of coals till it is more than blood 
warm; take a quart of sweet cream; 
when it boils pour it into a basin, cover 
it with a warm plate and acloth; then 
Set it on achaffing dish of embers till it 
is as thick as you wish, and strew on 
some fine cinnamon. 

Cream of any Preserved Fruit.—Take 
half a pound of the pulp of any preserved 
fruit, put it in a large pan, put toit the 
whites of two or three exgs, beat toge- 
ther well for an hour; take it off witha 
spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
glass salver, with other creams, or put it 
in the middle of a basin. Raspberries 
will not do this way. 

Cream Rhenish.—Put over the fire a 
pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinna- 
mon, and half a pound of sugar; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and 
whites of eggs, beat them weli together 
with a whisk, till your wine is half driven 
in them, and your eggs to a syrup; 
strike it very fast with the whisk, till it 
comes tosuch thickness that you may 
lift it on the point ofa knife, but be sure 
not to let it curdle; add to it the juice 
of a lemon, and orange-flower water ; 
pour it into your dish; garnish it with 
citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

Cream Rhenish.—Cut two cait’s feet 
very smati, put them into a saucepan, 
with two quarts of water, a stick of cin- 
Mamon, and a little lemon-peel; boil 
them gently till they are reduced to less 
than a quart ; strain it, and skim off the 
fat; putit into a stewpan, with a little 
lemon-peel, a few coriander seeds, a 
little saffron, and two bay-leaves; sweeten 
it according to your taste with fine su- 
gar, and let it boil up; beat up the yolks 
of eight eggs very fine, take the cream 
off the fire, and stir in the eggs well; put 
it over the fire a moment, taking care 
that it does not boil: strain it through a 
sieve, put in a gill of Rhenish wine 3 stir 
it till it is half cold, then put it into 
moulds ; when it is cold, turn it out into 
a dish,and garnish according to taste. 

Cream (Royal) Ices.—Take any quan- 
tity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in 
proportion (that is, four yolksof eggs 
every pint of cream) put a little half 
pounded coriander, cinnamon, orange 
or lemon-peel; add some pounded lump 
sugar,.and set it on the fire till it nearly 
boils; then pass it througha sieve, and 
put it to ice. 


( 195 ) 


CRE 

Cream Sabaione al’ Ialienne.*—Také 
the yolixs of twelve new laid eggs, four 
glasses of Madeira, six ounces of lump 
sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinna- 
mon. Put the whole into a saucepan, 
and set it over a quick fire, milling it the 
same as you would chocolate, till the 
whole saucepan is filled with froth; then 
serve the cream, as quickly as _ possible, 
in custard orjelly glasses. 

Cream Sack.— Boil a pint of raw 
cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, 
two or three spoonsful of white wine, 
sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over agen- 
tle fire till it becomes as thick as rich 
cream, and afterwards till cold; then 
serve it in glasses with long pieces of dry 
toast. : 

Cream, Sage.— Take two quarts of 
cream, boil it well; then put to it half 
a pint of the juice of red sage: a pint of 
white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose 
water, and a pound of sugar. 

Cream Sauce.*—Put into a stewpan 
a littie butter, a little parsley, a few 
green onions, and shalots, all cut small ; 
add one clove of garlic whole; turn the 
sauce a few times over the fire; thenadd 
some flour, and moisten with cream or 
milk; let the whole boil for a quarter of 
an hour, strain off the sauce, and when 
you want it for use, put in a little but- 
ter, some parsley just scalded and chop- 
ped fine, salt, whole pepper; then 
thicken the sauce over the fire. This 
may be used with all kinds of dishes 
that are done white. 

Cream Sauce.— Put a dozen fine 
white mushrooms into a stewpan, with 
two or three stalks of parsley, a bit of 
butter, and a little salt; stir them overa 
moderate fire, and when the butter be- 
gins tofry and look clear, shake in a little 
flour, but be careful net to make it too 
thick; then add some good consommé, 
and reduce it to the thickness of becha- 
medle sauce; then add cream, and pass 
it through a tammy. ; 

Cream Sauce.*—Put into a saucepan a 
quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert 
spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of pars- 
ley, andthe same of scallions, both chop- 
ped small; a pinch of salt, a little coarse 
pepper, and a nutmeg grated; mix these 
well, and then adda glass of cream or 
milk ; setit on the fire, and stir it till it 
boils ; if it be too thick, add a little more 
cream; this sauce should boil, and be 
kept stirring for a quarter ef an hour. 

Cream (White) Sherbet.* — Pat the 


| yolks of six eggs, anda dessert spoonful 


of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of 
cream, and boil it up once in a covered 


S52. 





. CRE 


saucepan; then pass it through a sieve, 
add to it three quarters of a pound of 
powder sugar, and as soon as it is per- 
fectly dissolved, pour the whole into a 
sorbétiere, which place in an ice pail, 
and proceed to cool itas directed. See 
Sherbet. . 

_ Cream, Snow.—Mix a quart of cream 
with the whites of six eggs, sweeten it 
with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them; then beat upthe cream with a 
bundle of reeds tied together, or with a 
whisk; and as the snowrises take it up 
with a spoon in the cullender, that the 
liquid part may run out: when you have 
taken off as much of the snow as you 
please, boil the rest of the cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, some cloves, and a 
little bruised ginger; boil it till it is 
thick; strain it, and when it is cold, put 
it into a dish, and lay your snow 
upon it. 

Cream, Snow.*—Take a pint of fresh 
cream, and mix with it eight spoonsful 
of powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, 
and @ spoonful of orange-flower water, 
or any other aromatic ingredient you 
like better; whip it, and remove the 
froth or snow in the usual way. This 
cream may be coloured according to your 
fancy, with saffron, carmine, or indigo. 
~~ Cream, Spanish.—Take three spoons- 
ful of rice flour, sifted very fine, the 
pos of three eggs, three spoonstiul of 

resh water, two spoonsful of orange- 
flower water, and mix them well to- 
gether ; then put to it one pint of cream; 
set it on a good fire ; keep it stirring till it 
is of a proper thickness, and then pour it 
into cups. 

Cream, Sweetmeat.—Take some good 
cream, and slice some preserved peaches, 
apricots, or plums, into it; sweeten the 


cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup 
the fruit was preserved in; mix all well 


together, and put into your basin. 

Cream (Syrup of ).—May be preserved 
the same as cream (see receipt for keep- 
ing crearn), in the proportion of a pound 
and a quarter of sugar to a pint of per- 
fectly fresh cream; keep it in a cool 

lace for two or three hours; then put it 
into one or two ounce phials, and cork 
it close. It will keep good thus for 
several weeks, and will be found very 
useful in voyages. 


spoonsful of fine flour, with the yolks of 


six eggs, reserving the whites of them. | 


Mix the flour in a quart of milk, and sea- 
son it with sugar and a stick of cinna- 
mon; keep it stirring with a ladle, and 
put in a good lump of sugar; the cream 
being half done, pnt in some‘ grated 
lemon-peel, some preserved lemon-peel, 


( 196 ) 


CRE 


shred small, and some bitter ae 
biscuits; let the whole be thoroughly 
done; when ready, let it be cold, then 
put an under crust of puff-paste in a 
baking pan, with a border of paste, and 
put your cream over it; mix it with some 
orange-flower water, and the whites of 
eggs, beat up to a froth: take care not 


to over-fill your custard; and let it be 


done, either in the oven, or under the 
cover of a baking pan, with fire under 
and over. When ready, and glazed with 
sugar, serve it up hot. 


Cream Taffaty.—Beat the whites of’ q 


eight eggs with rose-water, toa froth} 
put them into a quart of thick cream, 
skimming it as it rises; boil it, and keep 
it continually stirring. Then having 
beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take 


‘your cream off the fire, and slip in the 


eggs; stir them in. Sweeten with sugar, 

Cream Toast. — Take a pound of 
French rolls, slice them, crumb and 
crust, as thick as your finger; lay 
them ina silver dish; put to them 
half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a 
pint of milk; then strew sugar and 
beaten cinnamon over them; turn them 
often till they are soaked tender, 
but not so tender but you may 
turn them without breaking; then take 
them from the cream with a slice or 
skimmer; break three or four raw eggs; 
turn the slices of bread in the eggs, an 
fry them in clarified butter, till they are 
of a good brown colour, taking great 
care not to burn or black them ; scrape a 
littlesugar round them. Drain them well 
from the butter in which they were fried, 
and serve them hot for a second course. 

Cream, Tourte a l’ Anglaise.*—Pre- 
pare a crust in the usual way, and fill it 
with a pretty firm cream pdtissiére, 
mixed with two ounces of currants, two 
ounces of raisins, stoned, an ounce of 
cedrat, cut into dice, a little crisped 
orange-flower, the rind ofa lemon, grated 
on some sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, 
grated, and half a glass of white wine, 
When filled, bake it like other tourtes, 
and serve it hot. 

Cream Tourte with Spinach.*—Wash 
and blanch about two handsful of spinach ; 
chop it very small, and put it into a 
saucepan, with three ounces of butter; 


a | stir it over a moderate fire, and when all 
Cream Tart.—Put into a stewpan two | 


the water is evaporated, add four spoons- 
ful of cream pdtissiére, half a glass of 
double cream, three ounces ef powder- 
sugar, two of bitter macaroons crushed, 
a little crisped orange-flower, and a grain 
of salt. Mix these ingredients together 
well, and pour it into a crust prepared 
in the usual way; mask the top of the 
cream with filberts, blanched and mixed 





4 
B 
L 
rs 
- 





CRE 
with a spoonful of powder-sugar. Bake, 
and serve it hot. 

Cream au Vin.*—Mix the yolks of 
eight eggs with a proper quantity of 
powder sugar; to which add by degrees 
a bottle of Frontignac, or any other sweet 
and aromatic wine; stir it constantly ; 
put into the dain marie, and keep it 
stirring until the cream is set, and suffi- 
ciently done. ; 

Cream, White or Naturai.—Take a 
pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and a 
bit of sugar; boil them together till they 
are reduced to one-third, and when the 
milk is sutficiently cool that you can bear 
your finger in it, dilute a little rennet 
with water, ina spoon: mix it well with 
the cream, and strain the whole through 
a sieye ; then take the dish in which you 
intend serving, and set it over some hot 
cinders; pour in the cream; cover it 
with a lid that will admit fire upon it; 
and when the cream is set, put itin a place 
to cool. Serve cold. 

Cream, Vhipped.—Take a pintof thick 
cream, put it in a basin or stewpan, and 
deat it up with a whisk fo a strong froth, 
then mix in a little powder-sugar, and 
orange-flower water ; serve it in a small 
basket made with paste, and garnisa 
round with sweet rusks. Hf your cream 
should not socn froth, as sometimes it 
will not, be careful that you do not beat 
it to butter. 

Cream, Whipped.*—Put into a pan 
@ quart of good double cream, which has 
been kept for two hours in pounded ice; 
add to it,a little gum-dragon in powder, 
and whisk the cream for at least a quar- 
ter of an hour, when it will have become 
properly frothed. Lay itona napkin to 
drain thoroughly, and then mix it care- 
fully with six ounces of powder-sugar ; 
and the instant before you send it to table, 
add to'it whatever you intend to flavour 
it with. Serve your cream in-a raised 
tart-crust, or iced vol-az vent, and orna- 
mented with a sultane; or it may be 
placed on Jayers of almond-paste, or 
simply ina silver dish, 

Cream, /Vhipped.* —Put some good 
cream, with a proportionate quantity of 
powder-sugar, a pinch of gum-dragon, 
and a little orange-flower water, into a 
pan; whip it to a froth, with an osier 
whisk; as the froth rises, let it stand an 
instant, and then take it off gently with 
a skimmer, and place it on a dish hkea 
pyramid; garnish your dish with green 
lemon or orange chips, and serve it. 

Cream (Whipped), au Curamel.* — 
Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
when it has acquired the proper reddish- 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass of 
beiling water, over hot ashes; after 


(197) 


CRO 


which, it must be reduced to a rather 
thick syrup. When cold, mix it with the 
whipped cream in the usual way. See 
Whipped Cream. ae 

To this may be added the flavour of 
any ingredients you desire, by putting 
a small quantity of it into the sugar, the 
moment it attains its proper colour: for 
instance, a spoonful of starred anise, 
orange flowers, pralinées, a dozen of bit- 
ter macaroons, or filberts, crushed, &c. 

Cream (/Vhipped), Printanniére.*=- 
Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spi- 
nach, strained by degrees, with half a 
glass of Italian maraschino; pour this 
mixture, and six ounces of powder-sugar, 
to whipped cream as directed. See 
Whipped Cream. 

Instead of the. liqueur, the zesfes of a 
couple of lemons, a sweet or Seville 
orange, or cedrat rasped on sugar, may 
be used. Strawberries or raspberries 
may also be placed here and there on the 
cream. 

Cream (/Vhipped) aux Quatre Zestes.* 
—Take six ounces of lump-sugar, and > 
rasp on it the fourth part of the zeste ofa 
sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the 
same of a cedrat, and half the zesée of a 
lemon; scrape the sugar in the usual 
way, and then mix it with your cream, 
whipped as directed. See Whipped 
Cream. 

CROQUE en Bouches.*—These are 
large pieces of ornamental confectionary, 
formed’ of various materials, as gém- 
blettes, croguignoles, génoises, &c., or of 
oranges, cut into quarters, chesnuts, 
green nuts, &c., arranged within moulds 
according to fancy, and cemented to- 
gether with boiled sugar. 

Cxroguertes of Boiled Meat.*—Mince 
some boiled meat very small; add to it 
some sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, 
crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and 
sweet herbs; make them into a paste, 
and form it into little balls; roll them 
in very fine raspings, and fry them of a 
nice colour. Serve them with sauce 
prquante. 

CroguETTsEs @ la d’ Estrées.—Use the 
best puff-paste: roll it pretty thin, and 
cut_it into different shapes, as fancy 
leads; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome manner 3 rub them 
with a little caramel, to make them stick 
as you place them; then put some cur- 
rant jelly all over the top, and make 
what flower or design you please, with 
nonpareils of different colours, round it. 

Croguettes @ la Parisienne.*—Take 
a stick of vanilla, pound it with two 
ounces of sugar, and sift both through a 
silk sieve; mix it with seven ounces of 
sugar, well coe and pounded, and half 








CRO 


the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, 
and work the whole together for some 
minutes. ny 

Heat two large baking-plates of cop- 
per, rub them over lightly with virgin 
wax; when they are co!d, take a spoon- 
ful of the preparation, and lay it on the 
plate the same as the _ spoon-biscuits, 
taking care to lay them three quarters of 
an inch apart; when both plates are 


full, place them on stools, in the oven or 


stove; close the top, and lay embers 
over it, so that the croquettes may be as 
far removed from the fire as possible ; 
let them remain in this state all night; 
the next morning put them into a mo- 
derate oven, and bake them fifteen or 
twenty minutes; they should then quit 
the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish 


colour; remove them from the plates 


whilst hot. 
The croquettes may be flavoured ac- 
cording to your fancy. 
CROQUIGNOLES 4 la Chartres.*— 


- Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet, 


and three of bitter almonds, with a little 


white of egg; put half a pound of flour 


on your slab, make a hole in the middle, 
in which put the almonds, with half a 
pound of powder sugar, four yolks of 
eggs, anda little salt; make this intoa 


_ paste, and roll it into strips about the 


size of your finger ; cut them into square 
pieces, the bigness of a filbert, and roll 
them into little balls: place them on 
baking-plates, rubbed with wax; dorez 
and bake them in a moderate oven: re- 
move them from the. plates whilst hot, 
as, if suffered to grow cold first, they will 


break to pieces. 


Croguienotes a la Frangaise.*— 
Break up half a pound of bitter maca- 
roons, so smail as to be able to sift them; 
and having laid half a pound of sifted 
flour on your slab, and made a hole in 
the middle, put in the macaroons, with 
Bix ounces of powder-sugar, three yolks 
of eggs, three ouncesof fresh butter, and 
a grain of salt; make these ingredients 
into a paste, and form the croguignoles 
of the shape and size of olives ; dorez 
them lightly, and bake them ina gentle 
oven. These must be of a lighter colour 
than other croguignoles. 

Instead of macaroons use any other in- 
gredients you please. ; 

- Croguienotes d’ Office.* — Put into 
a pan half a pound of flour, a pound of 
powder-sngar, a little crisped orange- 
flower in powder, a bit of butter, about 
as big as a nut, and a little salt; moisten 
it with the whites of eggs ; your prepara- 
tion should be pretty firm; put it into 
a sort of funnel, butter some baking-tins, 


(198) 
_a pound of fine sifted flour; then stir in 


CRO 


and push the ereguignoles through in 
the form of buttons, cutting the paste 
with a knife dipped in white of egg; 
bake them in a moderate oven. 

Croguienotes aux Pralines.*—Make 
a paste like Croguignoles a la Chartres, 
roll it out to about a quarter of an inch 
in thickness, and cut it into two equal 
parts, on one of which lay pralines, 
leaving proper spaces between each; 
moisten the other part lightly, and lay 
it over the pralines; press it down a 
little, and with an oval paste-cutter, an 
inch and a half in length, ard one inch 
in width, cut out the croguignoles ; press 
the edges together, and finish as Cro- 
guignoles ad la Chartres. 

Croguieno.es @ la Reine,*—Are made 
in the same way as Croguettes a la Pa- 
ristenne; but, instead of laying them 
like spoon biscuits, they should be 
formed into balls about the size of a fil- 


bert. 

CROUSTADE.*—Takea loaf of close 
texture, remove the crust, and cut the 
crumb round, to the size you may re- 
quire, and about four inches in height 3 
form it to the shape of a cup or basin, 
and cutting the outside according to 
your taste, put it into a pan with a pro- 
per quantity of butter, and brown it; 
when of a good colour, and very dry, 
drain and take out the inside, and fill it 
with such articles as you may requre. 

CroustTabdE (Small) d la Béchamelle.* 
Line the number of custard:moulds you 
may require, with a rich puff-paste, ad- 
ding a small quantity of flour; fill 
them up with the cuttings of the paste, 
and bake them in a brisk oven of a light- 
ish red colour. In the meanwhile cut 
some breast of fowl into small pieces, 
three quarters of an inch long, and a 
quarter wide, also cut some very black 
truffles, or champignons, into pieces the 
sane size, flavoured with béchamelle ; 
place these in the dazn-marie, and when 
wanted, put some of this into each 
croustade, pour in a little béchamelle, 
cover them and serve. Observethat the 
croustades must be opened the moment 
they are taken from the oven. They 
may be filled with any other preparation 
you please. 

CrousTaDEs (Smail) de Nouilie.* — 
Mix some paste @ Nowzlle, with the yolks 
of twelve eggs, and when sufficiently 
rolled out, put it into a saucepan of 
boiling water ; let it boil a few minutes, 
and then, having drained it, put it intoa 
stewpan with a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, and a little salt; in a little while 
pour the paste ona dish, taking care to 
keep it of an equal thickness. When 
cold, turn it on the slab, and cut out 








CRU 


_ the croustade of the size and form you 
may require; then, having beaten up 
eight eggs, di 
‘draining and rolling each, as you do 


~ them, in grated bread-crumbs; do this a_ 


second time, rolling them lightly on 
the slab to make them smooth, and fry 
them a good colour in a very hot pan. 
Open and fill them with such prepara- 
tions as you may think proper ; cover, 
and serve them. 

Crovutes au Pot.*—Take some crusts 
of French bread, with very little crumb 
in them, cut them into thin slices, and 
lay them in a deep dish; pour over them 
some broth and pot skimmings; then set 
the dish over the fire, until the bread is 
burnt to the bottom, or gratinée ; then 
take three outsides of a loaf, cutting out 


all the crumb, suak these in some skim-— 


mings of broth ; season them with salt 
and pepper, and set them upright on the 
gratin; just before serving, drain them 
well, that the potage may be quite dry, 
and put some broth or stock in a sauce- 
tureen, and serve it. 

Croute aw Pot.*—Take two French 
loaves, rasp them, take off the crusts, and 
cut the crumb in round slices, and put 
them into a stewpan with a spoonful of 
consommé ; set the crusts over the fire to 
simmer, and then fry them in the fat 
taken from consommé ; put the panada 
ina deep dish, with the crusts at the top; 
moisten them with the consommé fat, and 
set them on the fire, tomake a gratin 
for a quarter of an hour 5 at the moment 
of serving, break six eggs over it, and 
serve it with a clarified consommé. 

CRUMPET'S.—Make a pint of warm 
milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, 
strained into a strong batter, with a suf- 
ficient quantity of flour; cover, and set 
it in a warm place to rise; then add a 
quarter of a pint of warm milk, an ounce 
of butter worked up ina little flour, but 
only flour enough to prevent the batter 
from being too thin; in a quarter of an 
hour have the iron rings ready ona plate 
of iron over a stove; pour the batter into 
these rings, and bake them. 

Crumpsts, or Pikelets.*—Set a sponge 
as for bread, excepting that half milk and 
half water must be used; and to every 
half quartern of flour, two eggs must be 
added; beat the eggs thoroughly. Bake 
them in rings as usual. 

CRUST (Short).— Pound, sift, and 
dry two ounces of white sugar; then mix 


it with a pound of well dried flour, rub- 


bing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three 
ounces of butter; then put the yolks of 
two eggs into some cream, and mix the 
whole into a smooth paste; roll it out 
thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. 


( 199.) 


dip each croustade into it, | 


CUC 


Crust (Short, not sweet, but rich).— 
Mix into a stiffish paste, using as little 
water as possible, six ounces of butter, 
with eight ounces of fine flour, (rubbing 
the butter well into the flour, before mix- 
ing it with the water) beat it well, and 
roll itthin. This crust is proper as well 
as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- 
served fruits. Let it bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Crust, for Venison Pasty. — Work 
into a paste with warm water, two 
pounds and a half of butter, a peck of 
fine flour, and four eggs ; work it smooth, 
and to a good consistence. The paste 
should be put round the inside, but not 
at the bottum of the dish; let the cover 
be tolerably thick, to bear the long con- 
tinuance in the oven. 

CUCUMBERS, Blanquette of.—Pare 
and stew your cucumbers ina little sauce 
tournée and sugar; then drain them. 
Reduce the liquor, and thicken it with 
the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted 
for table, put in the cucumbers. 

CucumpBers @ la Bourgeotse.—Prepare 
and dish your cucumbers as a@ lacréme ; 
in the meantime shred three or four 
onions very fine, and fry them in butter, 
till brown; when so, and drained off | 
from the butter, put them into a stew- 
pan to simmer by the side of the stove, 
with four table-spoonsftl of consommé, 
and the same of sauce tournée ; when re- 
duced to half the thickness, stir ia a bit 
of butter, and one squeeze of lemon- 
juice ; salt, ifrequired; pour this very 
hot over the cucumbers. 

CucuMBER with Cream.*—Peel and 
cut into squares some small cucumbers, 
then put them into salt and water, first 
letting it boil up; when the cucumber 
becomes soft to the touch, take them 
out of the salt and water, and put them 
into cold water; let them drain in a 
cloth, make a thick sauce @ la créme; 
put the cucumbers into it, and serve. 

CucumBers and Cream.* —Cut the 
cucumbers the same as for Cucumber 
Sauce, and blanch them in salt and 
water; when they are tender, Jet them 
drain on a cloth till no water remains. 
Put a quarter of a pound of butter, three 
tea-spoonsful of flour, salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg; mix the whole together, 
and then add half a glass of cream, set 
them en the fire and let ther boil up 
once ; if too thick, add more cream ; put 
in the cucumbers, and keep it hot till 
wanted ; it must not boil. 

CucuMBERS and Cream.*~Your cu- 
cumbers being pared, and the seeds 
taken out, cut them into dice, blanch, 
and then put them into a saucepan with 
a little melted butter, parsley, and scal- 








cUC 


lions, shred small, salt, pepper, morels, 
and good broth 5 let them stew for some 
time over a gentle fire. When done, 
add the yolks of eggs beaten up with 
cream, and a small piece of butter. To 
the sauce may be added a little verjuice, 
if you think proper. 

CucumsBers 4 la Créme.*—Pare and 
cut your cucumbers in small round or 
oval pieces, keeping them all as near of 
a size as you well can; throw them into 
boiling water with a little salt in it; 
when they are soft, take them from the 
hot, and put them into cold water, and 
then drain them in a cloth; make a 
eream sauce, rather thick, inte which 
put the cucumbers, and serve them. 

CucumsBers @ la Créme.—TYake four 
straight rough-coated cucumbers, taste 
each that it is not bitter; cut them 
in half, then in quarters, and with a 
sharp knife cut out the seeds, and pare 
off the skin, tossing them in water as 
you do them; have ready some good 
clarified butter, into which (when well 
drained from the water) putin your cu- 
cumbers; let them try (turning them at 
times) till of a fine light colour, then 
lay them on a sieve to drain them from 
the butter; when free from fat, lay them 
in astewpan to stew gently, with con- 
sommé enough to cover them, a very 
little sugar and salt, and a round paper 
over the whole ; when stewed nearly dry, 
lay them again on a sieve, then place 
them neatly on the dish, and pour over 
them some good cream sauce, and thicken 
with the yolk of one egy with a little 
cream, and serve very hot. 

CucoumsBers, Dried.—Take some. pre- 
served cucumbers, wash all the syrup 
from them, put them on sieves to 
drain, then. into a_ stove, one day is 
enough for them to dry; when dry, take 
them out and paper a box, and put them 
in, and lay a paper between every layer 
of cucumbers. 

CucumsBers, &ssenee of.—Take the 
parings from your cucumbers, and make 
a purée of them with a little butter, 
which must be drained off as soon as 
melted, and the purée diluted with the 
sauce tournée, in which the cucumbers 
have been dressed, as for blaxquette, 
(they being put to drain). When the 
purée is very thick, mix with it four 
spoonsful of velouté, with a little sugar, 
and then strain it. Toss up the scollops 
init, and add a little thick cream, if not 
sufficiently white. Season it well, and 
serve it quite hot. 

Cucumpers, Farcies.* — Pare three 
good-sized cucumbers, take out the seeds 
witha marrow-spoon, and fill up the mid- 
dle with a farce cuzte ; put into astewpan 


( 200 ) 


CcCUC 


some slices of bacon and veal, carro 
onions, a little thyme, and a bay-leaf, lay 
in the cucumbers, cover them with bacon, 
moisten them with stock, and let them 
simmer for half an hour, then, if they are 
tender, take them from the fire, drain, - 
and dish them. Serve with a reduced 
espagnole. : Ns 

CucumBERs au Blanc, Garniture of.*— 
Pare and cut your cucumbers into square 
pieces, and then trim them into the 
form of oyster-shells; blanch them with 
a little salt. When done, drain and then 
toss them up ina littie butter ; addsome ~ 
sauce fournée, and thicken them with 
the yolks ofeggs. 

CucumBers auBrun, Garniture of.*— 
Prepare the cucumbers as for blanc, then 
put the slices in a pan with water, salt, 
pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions, soak 
them in this for some hours, then drain 
and press them in a cloth; put them 
into a saucepan with butter, stock, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs; when done, put 
a little gravy to them and serve. They 
may also be fried in grated bacon, in 
which case they should be moistened 
with oil and vinegar. 

CucuMBERS au Gras.*—Pare and take 
the seeds trom your cucumbers, cut them 
into slices an inch thick, and throw them 
into cold water, then soak them in a 
glass of hot broth, and the same of vine- 
gar; drain and dip them into batter, and 
fry them in lard. Glaze them with pow- 
der-sugar as you take them out of the 
pan. 

CucumBeErs, Potage of.*—Cut your - 
cucumbers into small ova! pieces, blanch 
them for ten minutes, let them cool, 







* 
7 


and drain; put some slices of bacon into — 


a stewpan, then the cucumbers, cover — 
them with bacon, and add carrots, onions, 
pepper, and two cloves; let them stew 
thus for half an hour. Put some bread 
in the soup-dish, and pour over it a suf- 
ficient quantity of stock or broth to soak 
it well, lay the cucumbers on it, pass 
the liquor through a sieve, take off the 
fat, and pour it on the potage. 
CucumBers Liés, Potage of.*—Pare 
and split two cucumbers into four parts, 
and having taken out the seeds, cut eachs 
quarter into round slices, as near ofa 
size as possible; put them into a stew- 
pan witha little salt to take out all the 
water ; then strain them through a cloth, 
and put them into a saucepan with a bit 
of butter ; toss them up lightly, but not 
to colour them, then add a handful of 
sorrel chopped fine, and a pinch of cher- 
vil. Moisten it with some good stock 5 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour. When 
ready for table, thicken it with three 


‘ 


yolks of eggs, and a little cream; and 





a 


q 
cr: 





cUC 


jour it over your bread, which should 
e cut in pieces similar to the cucumbers. 
Cucumsers d la Poulette.—Pare and 
slice the cucumbers, and having soaked 
the slices for half an hour in vinegar and 
salt; drythem in anapkin, and put them 
into a pan with two ounces of buiter ; fry 
them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, 
pour a little broth on them, and let them 
stand till reduced without breaking; 
then add a small quantity of chopped 
parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, 
and three eggs; stew all together a little 
while, and serve hot. Pepper may be 
added according to taste. 

CucumsBers (to Preserve).* — Make 
choice of those which are small, and not 
too old, put them into jars, and pour 
over them a brine (to make the brine, 
take two thirds of water, and one of vine- 
gar, to several pounds of salt, according 
tothe quantity of brine you wish to make, 
a pound to three pints; put it over the 
fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to 
settle, and before you use it, pour it off 
clear); when you wish to use them, take 
the rind off, and dress them in the sam 
way as the fresh cucumber. | 
UCUMBERS, Preserved. — Split and 
take the seeds from the number of cu- 
cumbers you intend to use; lay them for 
three days instrong salt and water ; then 
put them into cold water, with a little 
alum, and boil taem till tender; drain, 
and let them lay in a thin syrup for two 
days, then boil the syrup again, pour it 
over the cucumbers, repeat this opera- 
tion twice more; then having boiled to 
soufié some clarified sugar, put them in 
it, sinamer them for five minutes ; the 
next day boil both up again, when they 
may be put by for use. 

Cucumsers (Ragotit of).*—Let some 
cucumbers soak for two hours, in half a 
tea-spoonful of vinegar anda little salt; 
turn them often, by which means the 
water, which is so cold to the sto- 
mach, will be drawn out; after they have 
been thus soaked, squeeze and put them 
into a stewpan with some good stock, a 
bunch of herbs, and a bit of butter ; stew 
them, and, when done, add a little cullis; 
clear off the fat from the ragoit, and 
serve; or, when you have scueezed the 
cucumbers, put them into a stewpan 
with some butter, and, having turned 
them a few times over the fire, shake in 
a little flour, and moisten with stock; 
when it is sufficiently done, and the 
sauce consumed, add the yolks of two 
eggs beat up with some milk, and serve 
them fur an entremet, either under eggs, 
or without eggs. If you wish to makea 
soup of them, boil some cucumbers once 
up in water, and then dress them with 


( 201 ) 


CUC 


stock and gravy, to give them a nice 
colour; when done, garnish the edge of 
your soup-dish with them, and take care 
of the water they were boiled in to add 
to the soup. 

CucumsBers, Ragodt of.* — Cut a 
number of cucumbers, each in half, take 
out the seed, slice them very thin, and 
soak them in vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
sliced onions. When they have laid in 
this a sufficient time, take them out and 
press them dry in a cloth; putthem 
into a saucepan witb butter, velouté, 
and stock, if your ragoft is white, but 
espagnole without butter, and nutmeg if 
brown; add a_ bunch of sweet herbs; 
when done, thicken it with yolks of 
eggs; put a little lemon-juice and 
serve. 

CucumBer Salad.*—Peel and cut a 
cucumber in slices, or peel without 
slicing it, and let it steep for twenty-four 
hours in vinegar; then when you wish to 
serve, drain off the vinegar, and season 
the cucumber with pepper and salt. 

CucumBeEr Sauce.*—Cut four cucum- 
bers into pieces the size of half acrown 
and three quarters of an inch thick; put 
them into a clean cloth, and rub them 
well to take out the water; put a bit of 
butter into a stewpan, to which put the 
cucumbers, and set them over a brisk 
fire, taking care toshake them frequently; 
when they are of a good colour, put to 
them three large spoonsful of velouté, 
and two ef db/ond; let them remain a 
short time on the fire. 

Cucumsers, Stewed.—Slice some cu- 
cumbers thick, or cut them into halves 
and divide them into two lengths; strew 
over them some salt and pepper, and 
sliced onions; add a little broth, or a 
bit of butter. Simmer very slowly; and 
before you serve them, if no butter was 
in before, put some, and a little flour, 
unless it wants richness. 

CucumBer Toast.*—Make a ragoit of 

cucumbers, well thickened; add to it 
the yolks of three eggs, dress them upon 
the crumb of bread, draw a knife dipped 
in a beat egg over the whole 5 cover with 
grated bread, and then fry them. 
’ Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare and cut in 
slices fifteen large cucumbers; put them 
into a stone jar, with three pints of vine- 
gar, four large onions cut in slices, three 
shalots, a little garlic, two large spoons- 
ful of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, 
and half a tea-spoenful of Cayenne pep- 
per. After leavingit to stand four days, 
give the whole a boil ; when cold, strain 
and filter the liquor through paper, and 
putit into small bottles, and use it for 
salad, or with cold meat. 

CULLIS,—Lay over the bottom of a 








cUL ( 202 ) 


stewpan as much lean veal as will cover 
it an inch thick; then cover the veal 
with some slices of undressed bacon 
(gammon is the best), three onions, 
three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two 
blades of mace, and three cloves. Put 
on the lid of the stewpan, and set it over 
a slow fire; but when the juices come 
out, let the fire be a littlequicker. When 
the meat is of a nice brown colour, fill 
the stewpan with good beef broth, boil 
and skim it, then let it simmer for an 
hour; add a little water mixed with as 
much flour as will make it properly 
thick; boil it halfan hour, and strain it. 
You may keep this cullis a week. 

Coxiis.*—Put soine roux into a sauce- 
pan, and when it is warm, add some 
stock, and a bunch of parsley to it, stir- 
ring it with a wooden spoon; let it boil 
for about an hour, taking care to skim 
it. Strain it through a sieve, take offall 
the fat, and the scum which forms at the 
top, and then set it by for use. 

Cuuus for allsorts of Butcher's Meat. 
—You must take meat according to the 
number of guests; if ten or twelve, a leg 
of veal and a ham will be necessary, with 
all the fat, skin, and outside cut off. Cut 
the leg of veal in pieces of about three or 
four inches thick, each way, place them 
in a stewpan, and then tie slices of ham, 
two carrots, and an onion cut in two; 
cover it close, let it stew softly at first, 
and asit begins to brown, take off the 
cover and turn it, to colour on all sides 
the same; but take care nut to burn the 
meat. When it has a pretty brown co- 
lour, moisten your cullis with broth made 
of beef, or other meat; season the cullis 
with a little sweet basil, some cloves, 
and a little garlic; pare a lemon, cut it 
in slices, and. put it into the cullis with 
some mushrooms. Put intoastewpana 
good lump of butter, and set it overa 


‘slow fire; put into it two or three hands- 


ful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, 
and let it takea colour; if the cullis he 
pretty brown, you must put in some 
flour. The flour being brown with the 
cullis, pour it gently into the cullis, 
keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle, 
then let the cullis stew softly, and skim 
off all the fat, put in two glasses of Cham- 
pagne, or other white wine; but take 
care to keep the cullis very thin, so that 
you may take the fat well off, and cla- 
rify it. To clarify it, you must put it 
into a stove that draws well, cover it 
close, and let it boil without uncovering, 
until it boils over; then uncover it and 
take off the fat that is round the stew- 
pan ; then wipe it off the cover also, and 
cover itagain. When the cullis is done, 


CUL 


through a silk strainer. This cullis is 
for all sorts of ragotits; fowls, pies, and 
tureens. oe 

Cus (a Family one). — Roll a piece 


of butter in flour, and stir it in a stew- — 
pan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour. 


Then put in some thin broth: a little 
gravy, a glass of white wine, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg 
or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper and 
salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow 
fire, then skim all the fat clean off, and 
strain itthrough asieve. ’ 

Cutus of Fish.—Broila jack or pike 
till it is properly done, then take off the 
skin, and separate the flesh from the 
bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out 
the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat 
them to a paste, in a mortar, and then 
add the yolks of eggs. Mix these well 
with the butter, then put in the fish, 
and pound all together. Take halfa 
dozen onions, and cut them in slices, 
two parsnips, and three carrots. Seton 
astewpan, and put into it a piece of but- 
ter to brown, and put in the roots to boil, 
Turn them till they are brown, and then 
pour in alittle broth to moisten them. 
When it has boiled a few minutes, strain 
it into another saucepan, and then put in 
a leek, some. parsley, sweet basil, half a 
dozen cloves, some mushrooms, and 
truffles, and a few bread crumbs. When 


it has stewed gently a quarter of an 


hour, put in the fish, &c. from the mor- 
tar. Let the whole stew some time longer, 
but be careful that it does not boil. 
When it is sufficiently done, strain it 
through a coarse sieve. : 

Cuuus, the Italian Way.—Put into a 
stewpan half a ladleful of cullis, as much 
essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, 
as much of broth, three or four onions 
cut into slices, four or five cloves of gar- 
lic, a little beaten coriander seed with a 
lemon pared and cut into slices, a little 
sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; 
put all over the fire, let it stew a quarter 
of an hour, take the fat well off; let it be 
ofa good taste, and it may be used with 
all sorts of meat and fish, particularly 
with glazed fish. This sauce will also 
serve for two chickens, six pigeons, 
quails or ducklings, and all sorts of tame 
and wild fowl. 

Cuuus for all Sorts of Ragodits.—Hav- 
ing cut three pounds of lean veal, and 
halfa pound of ham into slices, lay it in 
the bottom of astewpan, put in carrots, 
and parsnips, and an onion sliced ; cover 
it, and set it stewing over a stove; when 
it has a good colour, and begins to stick, 
putto it a littlemelted butter, and shake 


2 e, | ina little flour, keep it moving a little 
take out the meat and strain the cullis | while, until the flour is fried; then 


ee 





CUR 


moisten it with gravy or broth, of each 
a like quantity; then put in some pars- 
ley, and basi), a whole leek, a bay-leaf, 
some mushrooms and truffles minced 
small, three or four cloves, and the 
crust of two French rolls ; let all these 
simmer together for three quarters of an 
hour; then take out the slices of veal, 
strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ra- 
goiits. 
~Cuntuis of Rosts.— Cut some carrots, 
parsnips, parsley roots, and onions, into 
slices, and put them into a stewpan over 
the fire, and shape them round. Take 
two dozen of blanched almonds, and the 
crumb of two French rolls, soaked first in 
good fish broth. Pound them with the 
roots in a mortar, and then boil all toge- 
ther. Season it with pepper and salt, 
strain if off, and use it for herb or fish 
scups. 
Cuuus, White.—Take a piece of vea), 
/ cut it into small bits, with some thin slices 
_ of ham, and twa onions, each cut into four; 
moisten it with broth, seasoned with 
mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, green 
| onions, three cloves, and so let it stew. 
| Being stewed, take out the meat and 
| roots with askimmer, putin a few crumbs 
| of bread, and jet it stew softly; take the 
| white ofa fowl, or two chickens, and put 
itinto a mortar; being well pounded, 
| mixitin the cullis, but it must not boil, 
' and the cullis must be very white; but 
_ ifnot white enough, pound two dozen of 
sweet almonds blanched, and put it into 
the cullis; then boil a glass of milk, and 
_ add it to the cullis; Jetit be of a gocd 
| flavour, and strain it off; then put it into 
- asmallkettie, and keep it warm. [t may 
| be used for white loaves, crust of white 
_ bread, and biscuits. 
~CURACAO.*—This is a species of bit- 
_ ter or wild orange, of which the rind is 
' dried, and may be had at the druggists. 
To make the liqueur called by this 
name, wash a pound of curacao several 
times in warm water ; then, baving well 
- drained, put them into a vessel with four 
| quarts of brandy, and one of water; let 
- it stand closely covered for a fortnight. 
|. shaking itfrequently ; distil it after that 
in the usual way, and drain the curacao 
on asieve. Sweetenit with five pounds 
/ and a half of sugar, dissolved in three 
pints of water, mix it with the spirit and 
_ then fiiterit. ; 
CURD Cakes.—Takea quart of curds, 
eignt eggs, leaving out four whites; put 
in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little 
flour; mix these well together, heat but- 
ter, ina fryingpan, drop them in, and 
deylike fritters. _ 
Curps and Cream.—Put what quan- 
| tity of milk you please into a pan, made 


( 203 ) 


CUR 


rather warm, then add rennet. When 

the curd is come, lade it with a shape, 

into an earthen shape, perforated, of any 

form you please. As the whey drains, 

fill it up, without breaking or pressing 

the curd. If turned only two hours be- 

fore it is wanted, it will be very light, but 
for those who'like it harder, it should be 
made earlier, and squeezed. Cream, 

milk, ora whip of cream, sugar, wine, - 
and lemon, should be put into the dish 

or nae glass bowl, to serve with the 
curd. 

Curp Pudding (Boiled). — Rub the 
curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, 
through a sieve; then mix with it six 
eggs. a little cream, two spoonsful of 
orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grat- 
ed, three spoonsful of flour, and three 
spoonsful of bread-crumbs, half a pound 
ofcurrants, and half a pound of raisins 
stoned. Let it boil for one hour, in a 
thick cloth well floured. 


Curp Puddings or Puffs.—Turn two 


quarts of milk to curds, press the whey 
from the curd, and rub it through asieve $ 
then add to it four ounces of butter, the 
crumb of a penny roll, two spoonsful of 
cream, and halfa nutmeg grated, a little 
sugar, and two spoonsful of white wine. 
Butter little cups, or small pattypans, 
and fill them three parts full. Bake them 
carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Curp Puffs—Take the curd of two 
quarts of new milk, drain it dry, add to 
it the yolks of seven eggs, and the whites 
of two, sugar, rose-water, nutmeg and 
bread-crumhs ; make into a paste, cut 
in what shape you please, frythem in 
boiling lard, and serve them witha sauce 
made with butter, sugar, and white 
wine, 

Curp Star.—Put a quart of new milk 
over the fire with a few blades of mace : 
and when ready to boil,add to it the 
yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, 
and as much salt as will lie upon the 
point of a small knife. Let it boil till 
the whey is clear; then drain it on a thin 
cloth, or hair sieve, season it with sugar 
anda little cinnamon, rose water, orange- 
flower water or white wine, to your taste, 
and put it into a star mould, or any other 
form you please. Leave it to stand for 
some hours before youtnrnit into a dish $ 
nee put round it a thick cream or cus- 
tard. 

Curps and Whey.—Take a number 
of the rough coats that Jine the gizzards 
ofturkeys and fowls; clean them from 
the pebbles they contain, rub them well 
with salt, and hang them to dry. This 
makes a more tender and delicate curd 
than common rennet. When to be used, 
break off some bits of the skin, and put 











CUR ( 204 ) CUR 


on it some boiling water ; in eight or nine 
hours use the liquor as you do other ren- 


net. 

CURRANT Cakes.—Pick and wash 
the currants, either white or red ; to two 
quarts of currants, put one pint of water ; 
when boiled, run the juice through a 
jelly bag, do not press the bag; to one 
quart of juice put three pounds of sugar ; 
boil up the juice, ahd strew in the sugar ; 

our it into glasses, dry it in a stove till 
it will turn out, then dry the cakes on 
plates. 

Currants, Conserve of.*~—Take the 
seeds from two pounds of red currants, 
and put them on the fire in a silver pan, 
to dry them; then press them through a 
sieve, and put them again on the fire, 
stirring constantly until you can see the 
bottom of the pan; then, having dis- 
solved and boiled three pounds of sugar 
to cassé, pour iton the fruit, stirring 
continually ; in a short time take it off, 
stirring it as before until it bubbles 5 then 
pour it into moulds. 

Currant Cream.—Bruise some cur- 
rants that are thoroughly ripe in boiled 
cream; put in beaten cinnamon, and 
sweeten to your taste; then strain it 
through a fine sieve, and serve. 

Strawberries or raspberries, may be 
done in the same way. It is best to 
sweeten the fruit before you put in the 
cream, which should be almost cold be- 
fore the fruit is put to it, else the cream 
is liable to curdle. 

Currants (Black) Drops. — Procure 
half a sieve of black currants, and put 
them ina panj; mash them well with a 
spatula, and put them over the fire; let 


- them just boil, and pass them through a 


sieve, over an eartken pan; put what 
jelly comes from them into an earthen 
pipkin, put it on the fire, and let it boil 
for two hours: keep stirring it all the 
time with your spatula, or it will burn; 
put in two pounds and a half of pow- 
dered sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir 
it over the fire half an hour, drop it on 
pewter sheets or plates, in little drops, 
from your knife, and put them into a hot 
stove until you find that they are quite 
dry, then take them off with a knife. 
Cwrrants (Red), Fromage Bavarois 
of.*—Take the seeds from a pound of 
very sweet red currants, and a quarter of 
a pound of raspberries: press them 
through a fine sieve ; mix with the juice 
halfa pound of fine sugar,and six drachms 
of isinglass. Having put it in the pan 
with ice, when it begins to set, stir ina 
plate of whipped cream, and finish as 
directed. See Fromage Bavarois. 
Currants (fo Ice),—Take fresh cur- 


rants in bunches, and have. reas the 
white of an egg, well beaten to froth, dip 
them in, lay them abroad, sift double re- 
fined sugar pretty thick over them, and 
let them dry inastoveoroven. .— 
Currant Ices.—Boil two pounds ofred 
currants a moment with a quarter of a 
pound of raspberries ; rub them through 


a sieve, adding a pint of water, and 


then the sugar, which must be very well 
dissolved before icing. 

Currant Jces.— Pick some currants 
from their stalks, and squeeze them 
through a sieve; then take clarified su- 
gar, boil it toa very high degree, add it 
to your currant juice, and, if you choose, 
squeeze in the juice of four lemons, it 
will make it more mellow; strain them 
through the sieve a second time, put 
them in the icing pot, and finish the same 
as all other ices. 

Currant Ice Cream.—Take one large 
spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put 
it intoa basin, with half a gill of syrup, 
squeeze in one lemon and a half; adda 
pint of cream and a little cochineal, 
then pass it through a sieve, and freeze 
it according to custom. 

Currant (Fresh) Ice Cream.— Take 
one pint of currants, pass them through 
a sieve, with five ounces of powdered su- 
gar, anda pint of cream, then freeze it 
aceording to custem. _ 

Currant Vater Ice.—Take a large 
spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put 
it into a basin, and add to it the juice of 
two lemons, half a gill of syrup, anda 
pint of water; then freeze it rich. | 

Currant (Fresh) Water Ice.—Take 
a pint of currants, pass them through a 
sieve; then add to them four ounces of 
powdered sugar, and one pint of water; 
strain it, and freeze it rich. 

Currant (Black) Ice Cream.—Take 
one large spoonful of black currant jelly, 
add to it the juice of a lemon, and a pint 
of cream ; pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it according to custom. 

Currant (Black) Water Ice.— Take 
one large spooniul of black currant jelly, 
putit into a basin, add the juice of two 
lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of 
water ; strain it, and freeze it rich, 

Currant Jam (Black).—Gather your 
currants on a dry day, when they are 
full ripe. pick them from the stalks, wash 
them wefl in a basin, and to eyery pound 
of currants, put a pound of double re- 
fined sugar, beaten and sifted ; put them 
into a preserving pan, boil them halfan 
hour, skim, and keep them stirring all 
the time; then put theminto pots : when 
cold, put brandy paper over, and tie 
white paper over all. 
vy 

















CUR 


_ Currant Jelly.— Set on the fire in a 
_ Sugar-pan a pint of smooth clarified sugar ; 
when it boils, putin a quart of picked 
red currants, in which let them bvil for 
half an hour; be careful to skim them 
weil, and at times add 4 little cold water 
to raise the scum; when boiled enough 
run the liquor through a sieve into a 
basin, in which you have squeezed three 
‘lemons, then put in some isinglass, and 
set your jelly in a mould in ice as usual. 
_Curnanr Jelly.*—For this purpose the 
‘Tipest red currants should be taken, as 
the white are not so good for jelly; crush 
‘them, and press out all the juice into a 
glazed pan; cover it very closely, and 
set in a cold place for six days; then 
with great care remove the thick skin 
which then covers the juice, and pour it 
into another vessel, throwing away what 
remains at the bottom; when the juice 
is perfectly clear, weigh it, and for each 
pound take half a pound of crushed 
sugar, put them on the fire together, 
and much scum will soon rise, this must 
all be taken off; let it remain on the fire 
for about an hour ; then try it as follows: 
put a small quantity on avery cold plate, 
‘and if when it cools it becomes thick, and 
ef proper consistence, take the pan from 
the fire; if that is not the case, let it re- 
main until that is the case. Pour the 
jelly whilst hot, they must be quite 
cold before you cover them with 
ip Bis } J 
URRANT Jeily, Framboisée.*—Take 
‘seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, 
three of white, and two of white raspber- 
ries, press them through a very close 
horse-hair sieve ; pour the juice on nine 
‘pounds of double-refined sugar, broken 
im smail pieces, place the whole on a 
brisk fire, taking care to remove the 
scum assoon as it appears. When the 
boilings follow each other very quickly, 
take out the skifamer, (which should be 
of copper) stir it, and let the jelly fall 
from it; on quitting the skimmer it 
ought to fall like treacle. If it does so, 
it is sufficiently done. This jelly should 
be rose-culoured ; by making it entirely 
of red currants and red raspberries, the 
colour of the jelly will be red. ; 
Currant Jelly (Red).—Strip off the 
currants, put them in a jar, set the jar in 
a kettle of hot water, let 1t boil an hour; 
then throw the currants and juice intoa 
fine lawn sieve, press out all the juice, 
and to every pint of juice put a pound of 
double-refined sugar; put thei in a pre- 
serving pan; set it over a charcoal fire, 
and keep stirring till it is a jelly, which 
you will know by taking a little out to 
cool; be careful to take off the scum as 
it rises, aud when it is jellied and very 


( 205 ) 


CUR 


clear, pour it into glasses; when cold, 
cut round pieces of paper that will just 
cover the jeliy, dipped in brandy; put 
white paper over the glasses, twisting 
round the top. toty 

Currant Jelly (Black).—Make it the 
same way as the red currant jeily, only 
with this difference, that you may use 
very coarse sugar. ; 4 

Curnrant Jelly (White).*—Take the 
seeds from a dozen pounds of fine white 
currants, and put them into ten pounds 
of clarified sugar boiled to grand lissé, 
take your saucepan from the fire, stir the 
jelly lightly with a skimmer, then boil it 
up twice, after which -pass it through a 
sieve. Replace it over the fire, taking 
care to keep the sides of the pan clean 
with a sponge, so that the jelly does not 
become coloured by the heat in boiling 3 
Hite) it, and finish the same as the red 
jelly. 

Currant Jelly (Violet).*—Mix two 
pounds of black currants with ten pounds 
of red currants, press out the juice, and 
pour it on nine pounds of fine sugar. 
Make your jelly the same way as the 
rosé-coloured currant jelly. 

Currant Jelly without fire.*—Press 
the juice from your currants through a 
sieve ; weigh it, and to every pound, put 
a pound of powder sugar; mix them to- 
gether well, pass them through a strain- 
ing bag, let it stand a little; then put it 
into pots, and.expose it to the sun for 
two days. 

Currant Jelly Framboisée.* —Take 
two pounds of currants and a handful of 
raspberries ; bruise them well, and rub 
them through a new coarse cloth, strain 
the juice several times through a felt 
strainer until quite clear. Clarify two 
ounces of isinglass with a little clarified 
sugar, Skim it well, strain, and let it cool. 
Clarify three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, boil it to petzé perlé, and let that 
coo} also; then mix that, the isinglass, 
juice of the fruit, and the juice of a 
lemon together, and having oiled and 
well drained a mould, pour in your pre- 
paration, set it in ice, and do not remove 
it from the mould, until wanted for table. 

Currant Jelly Dumplings.—Take a 
piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out 
rather thin; then take some currant jelly, 
spread it over the paste, and roll it up3 
roll itin a cloth, and tie it at each end 5 
boil it an hour, and then serve. 

Currant Marmalade.—Strip your cur- 
rants off from the bunches, and soak 
them in boiling water until they break; 
then take them off the fire, and Jay them 
on a sieve to drain; and when they are 
cold, pass them through the same sieve to 
clear ute the seeds; then dry them over 





iq 
4 
; 
4 
j 


CUR ( 206 ) CUR 


.the fire till you bring your sugar to. the 


fifth degree of boiling, allowing as much | 
‘sugar as the fruit weighs; mix all well 


together, simmer it over the fire some 
time; then put the marmalade into pots. 

Currant Marmulade.— Take some 
ripe red currants, pick them, and squeeze 
out the juice from some of them; put to 
it some juice of raspberries ; then put to 
this the whole currants, boil them gently; 
and when they begin to break, putin an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to candy 


height; boil them together, mash them 


as they boil; skim them, put in some 
‘rose water, and when it becomes as thick 


as marmalade, put it into pots. 


Currant Paste.—Well wash some 
currants, put them into a preserving pan, 
bruise them, and with a little water boil 
them to a pulp; then press out the juice, 
and to every pound take twenty ounces 
of loaf sugar; boil it to a crack, take it 


_ from the fire, and putin the paste; then 


heat it over the fire, take off the scum 3 
put itinto your pasté pots, or glasses; 
then dry and finish them the same as 
other pastes. 

Currant Paste.*—Pick and take the 
seeds from ten pounds of fine red cur- 
rants, crush them, and having pressed out 
the juice, strain it through a silk sieve. 
Clarify and boil to cassé an equal quan- 
tity of sugar, pour the currant juice on 
it, set the whole over a gentle fire, stir- 
ring constantly until it becomes of a pro- 
per consistence, which may be known by 
observing when the bottom of the pan 
‘can be seen clearly ; take it off from the 
fire as soon as that is the case, and pour 
the paste into tin moulds, which must be 
placed on slates, or copper plates: smooth 
the tops with the blade of a knife, sprinkle 
sifted sugar over, and place them in a 
stove, where they must remain till next 
day; when the paste should be turned 
in the moulds; sprinkle sifted sugar over 
them again, and set them in the stove a 
second night; on the following day re- 
mnove them from the moulds. lay it in 
boxes, with white paper between each 
layer, and keep them in a dry place. A 
ton part of the quantity of raspberries 
added to the currants, would greatly im- 


prove the flavour of this paste. 


_ Currant Pastels,—Take half a pound 
of pourided loaf sugar on a plate, then a 
quantity of currants, which squeeze 
Fool a sieve; when that is done, add 
the juice to the sugar, till it makes a 
paste asclear and thick as you think 
proper. 

Currants, Preserved.* — Take the 
seeds and stalks from whatever quantity 
of currants you intend to use (of which a 
fourth part must be white currants); put 





them into a preserving pan, with a glas® 
of water; let them boil up until the fruit 
bursts; then strain the juice twice. Cla- 
rify and boil to cassé some sugar (an 
equal weight to the fruit) ; pour the juice 
on it, boil them together a quarter of an 
hour, and having skimmed it well, pour 
it into pots., ey ae : 

Currants, Red, (Preserved in 
bunches).—Having stoned your currants, 
tie six or seven bunches together with a 
thread, to a piece of split deal about the 
length of a finger; put double-refined 
sugar, equal in weight to your currants, 
into a preserving pan, with alittle water, 
and boil it till the sugar flies; then put 
the currants in, and give them a boil up, 
and cover them till the next day; when, 
take them out, and either dry them, or 
put them into glasses, with the syr 4 
boiled up with a little of the juice of ret 
currants; put brandy-paper over them, 
and tie them close down with another 
paper, and setthem in adry place. 

Currants, Preserved liquid im 
bunches.*—For this purpose, either re 
or white currants may be used, only be 
careful not to mix them, and choose: 
those bunches which have the largest 
currants; take out the seeds very care- 
fully with the nib of a pen. Boil clari- 
fied sugar (a pound to each pound of 
fruit) to bowlé, take the pan from the 
fire, put in the currants, stir them with a 
skimmer, taking care that the fruit does 
not burst, cover the pan, and give the 
whole one boi! ; skim the preserve light- 
ly, and put it into glasses ; do not cover 
them till the next day. 

Currants (fo preserve them dry).— 
Stone your currants, and tie them up in 
bunches ; to every pound of currants, boil 
two pounds of sugar, till it blows very 
strong ; dip in the currants, let them boil 
very fast till the sugar flies all over them; 
when settled a quarter of an hour, beil 
them again till the sugar rises almost to 
the top of the pan; let them settle ; skim 
them, and set them by till the next day 3 
then drain them, and lay them out, 
taking care to spread the sprigs, that 
they may not dry clogged together ; dust 
them very much, and dry them in a hot 
stove. 

Currants Preserved in Jelly.—Stone 
your currants, clip off the black tops, 
and clip them from the stalks; to every 
pound boil two pounds of sugar, till-it 
blows very strong ; slip in the currants, 
give them a quick boil, take them from 
the fire, and Jet them settle a little; then 
give them another boil, and put in a pint 
of currant jelly, drawn as directed, till 
you see the jelly will flake from the 
skimmer 3 then remove it from the fire, 


Aes 








‘ cellar to ferment; in a week’s time, pass 
the juice through a straining bag, and 


der sugar over the bottom of the dish; 


CuR 


let it settle a little; skim them, and put 
them into glasses, and as they cool, take 
care to disperse them equally. . 

Currants for Tarts, (to preserve).— 
Put a pound of sugar into a preserving 
pan, fur every pound and a quarter of 
currants, with a sufficient quantity of 
enrrant juice to dissolve the sugar ; when 
it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, 
and boil them till they are very clear; 
put them into ajar, cover them with 
brandy-paper, and keep them in a dry 
place. 

Currayt Pudding.—A pound of cur- 
rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four 
spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea- 
spoontul of ginger, a little powder’ sugar 
and a little salt; boil this for three 
hours. 

Currants (Ratafia of). * —Take two 
quarts of brandy, two of currant juice, 
two pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm 
of ae and the same of 
cloves. Take the seeds from the cur- 
rants before you press out the juice 5 
rectify the brandy; then add the cinna- 
mon, cloves, and juice. When it has 
stood a month, draw it off, dissolve the 
Sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. 

Currants (Black), Ratijia of.*—Take 
a gallon and a half of brandy, one quart 
of river water, two pounds of black cur- 
rants, three of crushed sugar, one of bit- 
ter cherries, six ounces of black currant 
leaves, and a drachm of cinnamon or 
cloves. Bruise the leaves, and fruit, 
and spice, and then put them irto the 
brandy to infuse for a month. Dissolve 
the sugar in the water, and when the 
ratafia is drawn off, mix the syrup with 
it; then filter and bottle it. 

Currant Shrub.—To five pints of cur- 
rant juice, either red or white, one pound 
and a half of loaf sugar ; when dissolved, 


put to it one gallon of rurror brandy; | 


elear it through a flannel bag. 


Curranr Syrup.*—Put five or six 


pounds of red, two of white currants, 
and two pottles of raspberries, into a 
sieve; crush them, and press the juice 
through it into a pan, and place it ina 


having clarified, and boiled to fort souglé 
four pounds of sugar, put the juice to it, 


and boil them together once; skim, and | 


take it from the fire. It is necessary that 
the currant juice should ferment, to 
prevent its becoming a jelly in the 
bottles. 


ined a dish with puff-paste, strew pow- 


then put the fruit, then sugar, andso on, 


( 207 ) 





CUR 


in alternate layers, till your dish is full, 
then cover, and bake it. ba 
_ Currant tart is much improved by add- 
ing either raspberries, or mulberries, to 
the currants. 

Currant (red or white) Tartlets.*— 
Having taken the seeds from a pound of 
fine ripe currants, mix them in a pan, 
with a quarter of a pound of powder 
sugar; put these into the tartlets, made 
as usual. (See Turtlets.) When baked, 
make a thin jelly with a quarter ofa pound 


-of crushed currants, and two ounces of 


powder.sugar, with which the tartlets 
should be masked. : 

Currants en Timbale. — Pick and 
wash some fine red currants, and set 
them to stew gently in thick clarified 
sugar; and when done enough, mix with 
them lemon juice, and a little isinglass. 

Cusrant /Fater.*—Pick a pound and 
a half‘of currants, and half a pound of 
raspberries, both quite ripe; crush them, 
press the juice through a sieve, and 
put to it a quart of water, and three 
quarters of a pound of sugar; let it stand 
half an hour, then pass it through a 
napkin, pour it into decanters, and set 
them in iced water. 

Currant (Fresh) Water. — Take a 
quart of fresh currants, and squeeze them 
through a sieve with your hand; add two 
large wooden spoonsful of powdered su- 
gar, one lemon, and some water; make 
it to your taste; strain it through a 
sieve, it will then be fit for use. 

Currant Water made of Jeilly.—Take 
two large spoonsful of currant jeily, and 
mix it with a little warm water; then 
put one gill of syrup, squeeze two or three 
lemons in, and let the rest be water; 
taste, and make it to your palate, putting 
a little cochineal in to make it a fine 
colour ; strain it through a sieve, and it 
will then be fit for use. 

Currant /Wine.* — Take sixteen 
pounds of currants, three gallons of 


| water; break the currants with your 


hands in the water, strain it off} put to 
it fourteen pounds of fine sugar, strain 
it into the vessel; add a pint of brandy, 
and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, 
and let it stand three months. 

Currant Wine (Red or White).*— 
Take thirty pounds of either red or white 
currants, and an equal quantity of black 
currants and small cherries, not stoned, 
and leaving on the stalks ; put the whole 
into a cask, and bruise them with a large 


, | stick ; then boil half a quarter of juniper- 
Currant Tart.*—Pick your currants | berries in five or six pints of water, to 


Ro the stalks carefully, and having 


which add half a pound, or a pound of 
honey, to make the juniperberries fer- 
ment; when they have fermented, mix 
them sae the juice of the fruits, Stir 


CUR ( 208 ) CUR 


it together during four and twenty hours, 
two or three times, and then fill up the 
cask with water, and close it. This 
quantity of fruit will make a hundred 
and fifty bottles of excellent wine. If 
you desire to make it stronger, put ina 
pint or two of brandy. 

Currant (Black) Wine.—Take three 
pounds of ripe black currants: pick and 
bruise them, and put them into a deep 
basin, with four bottles and a half of 
brandy ; add, if you please, some cloves, 
and a little bruised cinnamon, and set 
the jar in a place for two months. At 
the end of that time, strain off the liquor, 
pressing the currants wel], in order to 
extract all the juice, which put again 
into the jar, with a pound and three 
quarters of sugar$ leave it till the sugar 
is completely melted, and then strain 
through paper, and bottle off. This 
liquor becomes excellent after three or 
four years keeping. » 

Currant (Dry) Brioche.* — This is 
made in the same manner as the cheese 
brioche; only that currants (a pound 
and a half to eight pounds of the paste), 
are used instead of cheese. The same 
quantity of stoned raisins may also be 


_used, if preferred. 


Currant (Dry) Cakes. — Take two 
pounds of fine flour, one pound and a 
half of butter, the yolks of five or six 
eggs, one pound and a half of sugar, six 
spoonsful of white wine, three spoonsful 
of carraway seeds, two nutmegs, and one 
pound of currants ; beat up the butter 
with your hand till it is very thin; dry 
the flour well ; put in the carraway seeds, 
and nutmegs, finely grated; afterwards 
put them all into your batter, with the 
eggs, white wine, and rose-water ; mingle 
them well together ; put in the currants 
Jet your oven be pretty hot, and as soon 
as they are coloured they will be sufhi- 
ciently done. 

Currant (Dry) Funchonnettes. * — 
Take half the quantities of the usual 
ingredients, -(see Fanchonnettes), with 
the addition of three ounces ot dry cur- 
rants. When your fanchonnettes are 
made and pearled, put between, and on 
each pear], a single currant, (for which 
purpose take an ounce), Put them into 
a gentle oven, paying particular atten- 
tion that the meringues, or pearls, do not 
lose their white colour. 

Currant (Dry) Fritters a la Dau- 
phine.*—Having picked and washed six 
ounces of dried currants, boil them 
gently for a minute or two in two ounces 


of clarified sugar. When cold, put about 


a quarter of a spoonful of them on each 
fritter (see Mrittcrs a la Dauphine), and 
finish as therein directed. 


Currant Fritters without Eggs.— 
Half a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into 
it flour to make it tolerably thick, anda 
few currants; beat this up quick; have 
the lard boiling, throw in a large spoon- 
fal at a time. : eo. 

Currant (Dry) Génoises.*— Having 
washed and dried a quarter of a pound of 
currants, mix half of them, and the peel 
of a lemon, shred fine, with the usual. 
preparation. (See Génorse.) Finish and 
glaze them as directed, with a quarter of 
a pound of powder-sugar, and a little 
white of egg; as you do them, strew 
over each a few of the currants; dry 
them a minute in the oven. 

Currants (Dried), Madelaines of.*— 
Prepare your paste in the usual way, 
and when it is ready to put in the moulds, 
mix with it two ounces of currants. 

Currants (Dry) Mosaic Tartlets of.* 
—Wash half a pound of dry currants, and 
mix three quarters of them with a pot 
of apricot marmalade; with this fill 
your tartlets. (See Mosaie Tartlets.) 
When baked, glaze them, and strew 
over them the remainder of the cur- 
rants, which must be perfectly dry. 

Corrants (Dry) Nongais.*—Blanch 
three quarters of a pound of sweet al- 
monds; cut them into thia slices, and 
put them into a cool oven to colour 
them; dissolve six ounces of powder- 
sugar, and when it begins to turn red, 
throw in the almonds, stirring them with 
a spatula; pour this mixture on a but- 
tered plate thinner than usual, (see 
Nongats a la Frangaise), and strew over 
it dry currants and sugar. Finish them 
in the usual manner, and then cut them 
into crescents, with a circular paste- 
cuttez, of two inches diameter. 

Aniseed nongats are made the same 
way. 

Currants (Dried) Cream Pitissiére 
of.*—Wash a quarter of a pound of dried 
currants in several waters, till perfectly 
clean; dry them weil, and then simmer 
them a few minutes in two ounces of 
clarified sugar. Make a cream pdtissiére, 
(see that article); and having mixed the 
butter with it, add a quarter of a pound 
of sweet and bitter macaroons, two ounces 
of powder-sugar, and the currants. 

Raisins may also be used for this pur- 
pose ; but they must be stoned, and each 
raisin cut in half. aba 

Currant (Dry) Petits Pains.*—Fill 
the petits-pains, made like petits-pains 
a la reine, with cream pédtissiére, to 
which is added, two ounces of powder- 
sugar, and two of dry currants. Then 
make a glaze‘with a quarter of a pound 
of powder -sugar, a half the white of 
an egg; mask each petit-pain with this, 





CUR 


and strew the currants over as you do 
them; dry the wlaze in the oven. 

Currants (Dried), and Cedrat Pud- 
ding Angio-Francaise.*—Rasp the zeste 
of a cedrat on a quarter of a pound of 
lump-sugar, scrape it into a pan, with 
a glass of Madeira wine, and three quar- 
ters of a pound of dried currants: take 
three quarters of a pound of beef-suet, 
81x Ounces of marrow, both chopped very 
small, and five ounces of flour; add to 
them, with five eggs, half a glass of 
cream, a pinch of salt, and half a nut- 
meg, grated; mix these ingredients with 
the currants, &c., and finish as directed. 
See Marrow Pudding Anglo-Francaise. 

Currant (Dry) Pudding.* —Chop a 
pound of suet, and mix it with a pound 
of flour, half a pound of currants, (well 
washed), a tea-spoonful of pounded-gin- 
ser, half a spoonful of tincture of saffron, 
and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quan- 
tity of water, to make it a proper con- 
sistence; tie it ina buttered cloth, and 
boil it for an hour; serve it with melted 
butter, white wine, and sugar. 

Currant Dry Sauce (for Venison). 
—Boil for a few minutes one ounce of 
dried currants, in half a pint of water ; 
then add a small tea-cupful of brea 
crumbs, 8ix cloves, a glass of port wine, 
and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well 
till it is properly smooth. 

‘Currant (Dry) Wajfers.* — Blanch 
and cut half a pound of sweet almonds 
into very thin strips, put them into a 
pan with a quarter of a pound of powder- 
sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated 
rind of an orange, two whole eggs and 
one yolk, and a grain of salt; stir these 
ingredients with a spatula very gently, 
so as not to break the almonds; when 
well mixed, butter a baking-plate, about 
eighteen inches long, by twelve wide, 
upon which pour your preparation, 
spreading it with the blade of a knife, 
that it may be equally liquid in all parts; 
and then, with a fork, remove such of 
the almonds as may lay above the others. 
Strew over the whole two ounces of dry 
currants. Putitintoa moderately heated 
oven for two minutes, and then strew 
over the currants some crushed sugar, 


. and replace them in the oven till they 


acquire a clear yellowish tinge on both 
sides : when done, cut it into pieces two 
inches square, and while warm, press 
them on a round stick (about two inches 
diameter), to give them a semicircular 
form. ‘This operation should be per- 
formed as quickly as possible, that the 
wafers may not change colour. 


CURRY Balls.—Beat up the yolk of | 
a hard egg with a smail piece of butter; | 
season them with curry-powder; mix. 


( 209 ) 


CUS 


them with bread crumbs; and having 
made as many balls as you require, boil 
them a minute or two, before you make 
use of them. 

Curry Powder.* — Take thirteen 
ounces of coriauder seed, two ounces of 
black pepper, one ounce of cayenne pep- 
per, three ounces of cummin seed, six 
ounces of pale-coloured turmeric, the 
whole pounded very fine. Set them to 
dry perfectly before the fire, turning 
them frequently; mix them well, and 
when cold, put it into bottles; and if 
kept in adry place, will continue good 
for years. 

This powder is used to flavour various 
kinds of meat, fish, and poultry, in the 
proportion of two table-spoonsful of the 
powder to two pounds of meat; the 
onions must be fried first, then the meat 
and curry, and when it is a little brown, 
pour on it two cups of water. 

Curry Sauce.*— Put a quarter of a 
pound of butter into a saucepan, witha tea- 
spoonful of saffron in powder, five small 
pimentos, crushed ; make your butter 
quite hot, and then add five large spoons- 
ful of velouté ; stir the sauce well, and 
serve it without skimming or straining ; 
a little grated nutmeg may also be added. 

CUSTARD.—Boil a pint of milk with 
lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix a pint 
of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well 
beaten ; when the milk -tastes of the sea- 
soning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; 
pour it into the cream, stirring it well ; 
then give the custard asimmer till of a 
proper thickness. Donot let it boil; stir 
the whole time one way; then season 
with a large spoonful of peach water, and 
two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little 
ratafia. If you wish your custards to be 
extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart 
of cream. 

Custarps.*—Take six eggs, leave out 
the whites; mix your eggs and sugar to- 
gether with some rose- water ; then boil 
a pint of cream, and put in the eggs (the 
cream must not boil after the eggs have 
been putin). Stir them to prevent them 
from curdling. 

_Cusrarps (Smail).*—Put an ounce of 
sifted flour into a small saucepan, with 
one egg, and stir it over the fire till it 
becomes a very smooth paste; mix with 
it six yolks and one whole egg, a quarter 
of a pound of powder-sugar, six maca- 
roons, crushed, and a grain of salt; stir 
it well for some time, and then add ten 
moulds full of cream, haif an ounce of 
crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an 
orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your 
moulds are lined with puff-paste, put in 
each apiece of butter the size of a fil- 
bert i ae pour in the preparation, and 





cus 


put them in a brisk oven: serve them 
quite hot. These quantities will make 
eighteen. ae 

’ Custard Anglo-Francaise.*—Make a 
cream pdtisszére, with a little vanilla in 
it; and when dried, add of butter, 
powder-sugar, and crushed bitter ma- 
caroons, six ounces each, a quarter of a 
pound of dry currants, and the same of 
stoned raisins, two ounces of preserved 
cedrat, cut in pieces, four drachms of 
crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg 
grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass 
of white wine. Mix in the twelve whites 
whipped firm as usual; pour the pre- 
paration into a raised crust, and bake in 
the usual way. 

Custarp, Baked.— Boil a pint of 
cream with mace and cinnamon; when 
cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of 
the whites, a little rose and orange- 
flower water, a little white wine, nut- 
meg, and sugar to your taste; mix them 
well together, and bake them in china 
cups. . 

— Custarp of Cream.*—Prepare your 
custard as usual. (See Apple Custard.) 
Fasten a paper band, about four inches 
high, round it, and fill it with a good 
cream pdtissiére, with rather less butter 
than usual. Bake it for three quarters 
of an hour; take off the paper, dorez it: 
sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour 
it with the salamander. 

Custarp Fritters.— Having beat up 
the yolks of eight eggs, with a spoonful 
of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and 
a glass of brandy, add a pint of cream; 


sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. |& 


When it is cold, cut it into quarters, and 
dip them in batter made of half a pint of 
cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four 
eggs, a little ginger, grated. Fry them 
in good lard or dripping, and when done, 
_ strew grated sugar over them. 

Custarp of Fresh Fruit.* — Have 
ready a tin or copper mould, and line it 
completely with paste, taking care that 
it takes all the form of the mould. Then 
take a sufficient quantity of apricots, 
peaches, plums, or any other fruit you 
please ; and having taken out the stones, 
seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with 

owder-sugar ; put it into the crust, and 

ake it ina hot oven. When ready for 
table, mask it with the syrup and ker- 
nels, blanched and cut in halves. 
__ Custarpb in Preserved Oranges.— Fill 
three or five oranges with custard; gar- 
nish with a little sweetmeat, either wet 
or dry; this makes a very pretty dish. 

Custarp @ la Parisienne.*—Cut fifty 
sound apples into quarters, (pared and 
cored), and put them into a saucepan, 
with half a pound of butter, a quarter of 


( 210 ) 


a pound of powder-sugar, and a pot of 
apricot marmalade; put them over a 
moderate fire, with coals on the sauce- 
pan lid; let them remain a few minutes, 


that they may soften, but net break. _ 


Have ready a preparation of rice, boiled 
with halfa per of butter, the same of 
sugar, on which has been grated the peels 
of four lemons, a pinch of salt, and eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and thickened 
with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a 
raised crust like the custard @ la Portu- 
gaise, in which pour a fourth part of the 
rice (cold); on that lay forty-eight 
quarters of apples; over them pour the 
same quantity of the rice, then the 


apples, rice, &c. reserving the finest — 


quarters for the top. Bake it in a brisk 
oven, for between two and three hours. 
When done, mask the top with apple- 
jelly, apricot or currant marmalade, and 
the crust with apricot marmalade also. 
Cusrarp (Plain).—Take a quart of 


cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, 


four bay leaves, and some mace; boil 
them all together; then well beat up 
twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put 
them into a pan; bake, or boil them, 
stirring them all one way, till they are 
of a proper thickness; boil your spice 
and leaves first, and when the milk is 
cold, mix your eggs and boil it; you may 
leave out the spice, and only use the bay 
leaves, or in the room of that, four or five 
bitter almonds. | sane : 

Custarp @ la Portugaise.* — Choose 
about a hundred fine apples, from which 
select three dozen of the best ; scoop out 
he core, and as you trim them, put them 
into a saucepan, with just water enough 
to cover them, adding the juice of two 
lemons, and two spoonsful of powder- 
sugar; when scalded, put them into 
another saucepan, with three quarters 
of a pound of powder-sugar, the peel of 
two lemons, anda sufficient quantity of 
water to boil them: in the mean time, 
cut the rest of the apples into quarters, 
and make them into a marmalade; to 
which, add a pot of apricot marmalade, 
and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; 
pass this through a sieve. The whole 
apples must be taken from the fire while 
they are yet firm. 

Make a raised crust, about nine inches 
diameter, and five or six in height; in 
which put a fourth part of the marma- 
lade; lay a dozen of the whole apples on 
that, having filled each apple with apricot 
marmalade’; cover them with the mar- 
malade (the same quantity as at the 
bottom), then a dozen more apples ; 
mask them also with marmalade, and so 
again with the remaining fruit and mar- 
malade. Tie a thick paper round the 





CUS 


“crust, and put it into a brisk oven; in an 
_ hour’s time cover the top, and then let it 
remain two hours longer. When done, 
mask the crust with a very transparent 
apricot marmalade, and the top-with a 
clear apple-jelly. This custard may be 
garnished in various ways according to 
taste. 

Custrarp Pudding.*— Mix a pint of 
cream with six eggs, well beaten, two 
spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, grated, 
and salt and sugar to taste; butter a 
cloth, and pour in your batter ; tie it up, 
put it into a saucepan of boiling water, 
and let it boil for an hour and a half. 
Serve, with melted butter for sauce. 

Custarp Pudding.— Boil a pint of 
thick cream, with a bit of cinnamon in 
it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of 
sugar. When it is cold, put to it the 
yolks of five eggs, well beaten, and stir 
it over the fire till itis pretty thick; but 
take care not to let it boil. When it is 
quite cold, butter a cloth well, dust it 
with flour, tie the custard up in it very 
close, and boil it three quarters of an 
hour. When you take it up, put it into 
a basin to cool a little; untie the cloth, 
lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. 
You will break the pudding, if you do not 
take off the cloth carefully. Grate over 
it a little sugar, put melted butter and 
a little wine in a boat, and send it to 
table. 

Cusrarp (Small) Soufiées.*—Put two 
ounces of rice-flour and two of butter 
into a saucepan; mix them tegether 
well, and add to them a quarter of a 
pound of powder-sugar, and two glasses 
of cream, in which a small quantity of 
vanilla has been infused; put this mix- 
ture over a moderate fire, and boil it like 
acream pdtissiére. Then put to them 
the yolks of four eggs, two-_spoonsful of 
whipped cream, and the four whites, 
beaten firm. Make the paste for the 
moulds the same as petits pités a la bé- 
chamelle, and when half baked, pour in 
your preparation, and finish them. When 
done, they should not stand a minute 
before they are sent to table. These 
small custard soufiées may be made with 
any fruit, and flavoured with any ingre- 
dient you may think proper to use. 

Custarp @ la Suzsse.* — Put nine 
glasses of milk and half a pound of fresh 
butter into a saucepan, and when it be- 
gins to boil, take it from the fire, and add 
to it from eighteen to twenty ounces of 
sifted flour, stir it with a wooden spoon 
till it becomes a smooth paste, when it 
must be dried a little over the fire; in 
about five minutes put it into another 
vessel; mix with it six ounces of butter, 
a pound of Gruyere cheese grated 3 .add 


7 
Care 


( 2i1 ) 


cYD 


‘afterwards, a spoonful of mzgnonette, two 


of powder-sugar, and four eggs; mix 
them well together, and then put in four 
more eggs, six yolks, and half a pound 
of Gruyere cheese, cut in dice. When 
the whole is thoroughly incorporated, if 
the paste be not sufliciently moist (it 
should be of the consistence of the chuux), 
add an egg or two, then whip six whites 
of eggs firm, and put it in with six 
spoonsful of Chantilly cream. Pour this 
preparation, while hot, into a_ raised 
crust, at least ten inches in height, and 
bake it for two hours, or two and a half, 
in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. 

Custarp, @ lu Turque.*—Put a pound 
and a half of good rice into cold water 
over the fire, and when it boils, take it 
off and drain it well; then put it intoa 
large saucepan, with twelve glasses of 
good milk, a pound of butter, the same 
of sugar, on which have been rasped the 
peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a 
grain of salt. Put the saucepan over a 
moderate fire to swell the rice, taking 
care that none. of the grains burst; stir 
it a little, and when done, add to it two 
pounds of dry currants, the yolks of 
twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chan- 
tilly cream; after which mix in the 
twelve whites whipped firm. Prepare 
the crust in the usual way; bake it in a 
moderate oven two hours and a half; 
when ready for table, brown it with a 
salarmander. 

CUTLETS, Maintenon. — Cut slices 
about three quarters of an inch thick,- 
beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet 
them on both sides with egg; dip them 
in a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, 
thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, 
anda little grated nutmeg; then put 
them into papers folded over, and broil 
them. Serve them with melted butter 
and a little mushroom catsup ‘mixed 
with it. 

Cuttets en Surprise.* —Take some 
pufi-paste, roll it out to a moderate 
thickness, and cut it into pieces the form 
of small hearts, in the same manner as 
Mutton Cutlets en Papillotes, lay some 
apricot marmalade on them, turn them 
over, press the edges together, lay them 
on a tin, and bake them. Cut some 
common paste into bands so:as to resem- 
hle the mutton bones,. bake, but do not 
colour them. When the cutlets are done, 
dorez them; crush some mushrooms, 
which sprinkle over, instead of bread; 
make a skewer red hot, and lay it on the 
cutlets to imitate the marks of the grid- 
iron. Dish them, ex consommé, with 
the bones placed in proper order, and 
serve. i 

CYDER.—Cyder is a fruit liquor pre- 


a ee 


CYD (212 ) CYD 


pared by means of fermentation, from’ 


the expressed juice of different sorts of 
apples. The process by which this liquor 
is formed has much similarity in all the 
different districts, although there is 
much diversity in regard to the care and 
management which are bestowed upon it. 

The varieties of apples which are grown 
and cultivated in the different fruit dis- 
tricts of the kingdom for this intention, 
are extremely numerous; the following 
is a list of the most approved :— 

Styre. 

Coccagee. 

Golden Harvey. 

Red Streak. 

Golden Pippin. 

ueening. 

Biesgae Red. 

There have been several varieties of 
apples introduced from Normandy, and 
are thence called Red Norman, Yellow 
Norman, &c. Mr. Knight’s new kinds 
are also highly esteemed for cyder; 
namely, ahs 

The Downton Pippin. 

The Grange Apple. 

The Foxley, and 

The Brengewood Pippin. 5 

Gathering the Fruit. ~ Great care 
should be taken that it is sufficiently 
ripe before it is removed from the trees, 
otherwise the cyder wi!l be harsh, rough, 
and unpleasant in its taste. It should 
be gathered on a dry day, when the fruit 
has acquired such a state of maturity as 
to be ready to drop from the tree, when 
the limbs or branches of it should 
be slightly shaken, and disburthened 
in a partial manner of its apples, thus 
taking only such as are in a ripe state, 
leaving the others to acquire a due de- 
gree of maturity. it is indeed thought 
best to make three gatherings of the 
crop, keeping each by itself. The latter 
gatherings, as well as the wind-falls, 
caa, however, only be employed in mak- 
ing inferior cyder ; the prime cyder must 
be drawn from the first gatherings which 
have been made. : 

The merit of cyder will always depend 
much on the proper mixture, or rather 
on the proper separation of the fruits. 
Each kind should be collected separately 
and kept till it becomes perfectly mel- 
low; for this purpose, in the common 
practice of the country, they are placed 
in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and 
exposed to the sun and air and rain; not 
being over covered, except in very se- 
vere frosts. The strength and flavour of 
the future liquor is however increased by 
keeping the truit under cover some time 
before itis ground; but unless a situa- 
tion can be afforded it, in which it is ex- 


posed to a free current of air, and where 
it can be spread very thin, it is apt to 
contract an unpleasant smell, which will 
much affect the cyder produced from it. 
No criterion appears to be known by 
which the most proper point of maturity 
in the fruit may be ascertained with ac- 
curacy; but there is good reason to be- 
lieve that it improves as long as it con- 
tinues to acquire a deeper shade of yel- 
low. Each heap should be examined 
prior to its being ground, and any de- 
cayed or green fruit carefully taken 
away. ates 
When the fruit of different sorts and 
qualities has been kept separate from 
one another a few weeks, it will be per- 


| ceived that some of the prime sorts are 


in a prover state of maturation 3 that the 
pulp has acquired its highest degree of 
richness; the kernels assumed their 
brownest colour; the rind still free from 
any appearance of rottenness ; and that 
they easily yield to the pressure of the 
thumb: then is the time, and such is 
the fruit to be employed in making prime 
cyder. Every necessary utensil should 
now be got in readiness; the mill, press, 
tubs, casks, pails, and bowls, well 
washed, and suffered to dry thoroughly 
before they are employed in the busi- 
ness. . 

Grinding the Apples.—In the business 
of grinding the fruit, for this use, into 
what is termed pommage, several difter- 
ent metheds are practised. It has been 
suggested by some that each sort ofapple 
should be ground separately, or, at least, 
such sorts, in mixture, as become ripe at 
the same time ; but others state that this 
practice is that by which “ fine cyder, of 
different flavoursand degrees of strength, 
is obtained from the same orchard, the 
liquors being mixed after they are 
made.’’ It is, however, allowed that, 
*¢in all common cases,’’ the practice of 
grinding different varieties of fruit 
equally ripe together, is found eligible; 
as it is less difficult to find the requisite 
degrees of richness, astringency and 
flavour, in three varieties, than in one. 
And hence it is supposed, that. cyders 
made from the juice of mixed fruits, 
under common management, generally 
succeed with greater certainty than those 
from only one kind. In the grinding, the 
fruit should be reduced as nearly as pos- 
sible, to an uniform consistence, in such 
@ manner as thatthe rinds and kernels 
may be scarcely discernable from the 
general mass; the operation proceeding 
slowly, with a free access of air. 
Preparing the Ground Fruit.—Cyderists 
do not all agree with regard tothe exact 
time the pommage should be carried to 





cYD 


the press; the usyal average is from 
about eighteen to twenty-four hours ; at 
the end of this time the ground fruit or 
pommage is carried to the press, and a 
square cake or cheese made of it, by 
placing very clean, sweet straw, or reeds, 

etween the various layers of pulp, or 
pom mage, or by putting it into hair-cloths 
spread upon the vats, and placing them 
one on another. They are turned up 
on the sides and corners over the pulp, 
so as nearly to meet in the centres. 
They should be laid very even, and ten 
or twelve may be laid over each other 
in regular layers, the square frame of 
the press being raised with them, keep- 
ing the pile to an uniform size. Upon 
the whole, a strong board is placed, 
wider than the pile, on which the blocks 
of the press rest. It is of the utmost im- 
portance that the straw or reed, where 
they are used, should be sweet, and per- 
fectly free from any fustiness, lest the 
cyder be impregnated therewith. Parti- 
cular care ought also tobe taken, to keep 
the hair-cloths sweet, by frequently 
washing and drying; or the ill effects of 
their acidity will be communicated to 
the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after 
standing awhile, aslight pressure is at 
first to be given by lowering the screw of 
the press, which must be gradually in- 
creased as the cakes become dryer, until 
all the must or juice is expressed, which 
is usually completed by the long lever 
and windlass ; after which, thejuice must 
be strained through a coarse hair sieve, 
and put either into open vats, or close 
casks. 

Fermentation. — Fermentation should 
not, by too much heat, be carried on too 
rapidly, nor by extreme cold, too slowly ; 
as, in either case, the fermenting body 
would be injured; therefcre, a certain 
degree of warmth, or rather impercepti- 
ble heat, conduces best to regulate this 
Operation. This degree of warmth may 
be understood to rest between forty and 
fifty degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermome- 


‘ter; new made cyder should therefore 


be put into a cellar according to this 
rule; the fermentation will then go on 
with due regulation. 

When the liquor appears tolerably 
clear to the eye, and has a piquant, vi- 
nous sharpness on the tongue, then the 
least hissing noise heard in the ferment- 
ing liquor in this state, shews the place 
in which it stands is too warm, and air 
must be admitied. This is the critical 
moment for racking the liquor, which is 
done by drawing off the pure part into 
Open vessels, which must be placed in a 
more coo] situation for a day or two, after 
which it may again be barrelled, and 


(213 ) 


CYD 


placed in some moderately cool situa-. 
tion for the winter. In racking, it is 
advisable that the stream from therack- 
ing cock be small, and that the receiving 
tub be but asmall depth below the cock 5 
lest, by exciting a violent motion of the 
parts of the liquor, another fermentation 
be brought up. The casks into which 
the liquor is put, whenever racked oif, 
should always be previously thuroughly 
scalded, and dried again; and each 
should want several gallons of being full, 
to expose a larger surface to the airs 
Having attended to these rules so far, 
the cyder will require very little further 
attention, beyond filling up the vessels 
every two or three weeks to supply the 
waste by the insensible fermentation, 
until the beginning of the succeeding 
March; at which time, it may be reason- 
abiy expected, the cyder will be bright, 
pure, and in a fit state for its final rack- 
ing. This should be done in fair weather 3 
but should the cyder not prove as bright 
andas good a colour as desired, this is 
the time for applying some innocent re- 
medy ; the best method is by putting two 
pounds of lump sugar into a hogshead of 
cyder. If you wish the cyder to be ofa 
higher colour than what the fruit gives 
it, melt a pound of lump-sugar in a stew- 
pan, over a clear fire, stirring it fre- 
quently, until it comes toa very dark 
brown colour; then take it off the fire, 
and, asit cools, add some cyder thereto, 
by little and little, continuing to stir it 
till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. 
About a pint of this colouring to a hogs- 
head of cyder, is sufficient. 

Soon after the spring racking, the 
casks may be gradually stopped, by 
first laying the cork on the bung-hole, 
and in the course of a few days, forcing 
it very tightly into it, covering it over 
with melted resin, or any other similar 
substance, _ 

Bottling the Cyder.—This should be 
done ina month after the spring-rack- 
ing, when the liquor has acquired in the 
cask its highest degree of perfection ; 
then, when the weather is fair, the baro- 
meter high, and the wind in anortherly 
point, let the bottles be filled, setting 
them by uncorked until the morning} 
then let the corks be driven very tightly 
into the necks of the bottles, tied down 
with small strong twine or wire, and 
wellsecured with melted resin, or other 
material of the same nature. 

Cyper Brandy.—Take very hard or 
sour: cyder, (as that yields the most 
spirit,) twelve gallons; distil it the same 
as other spirits are distilled. Then, with 
a gentle fire, draw off two gallons of 


cyder brandy or spirits, to make royal 


ae 


DAB (214) DAM 


cyder. You may distil on as long as 
any spirits will run, for other uses. 

Cyber Sweets.— Beat up the whites 
of forty eggs, and mix them with eight 
gallons of water; put to these half a 
hundred weight of sugar, put half the 
sugar into half the egg water, set it over 
a gentle fire, and stir it about till it is 
dissolved; then put in more egg water 
to keep it from boiling too high: putting 
ina quart at atime, till all the egg wa- 
ter is used; skim itas it rises, and when 
it has done rising, and the sweets are 
clear, add the rest of the water, and boil 
it to the consistency of asyrup. 

Cyper Vinegar.*— Take about six 
pounds of sour leayven, made with yeast 
and rye flour; dilute it with warm water, 
and pour it through the bung-hole into 
a large cask of cyder; put a large stick 
into the bung-hole, and stir it about well 
to mix the leaven with the cyder; then 
let it stand to ferment for a week; at the 
end of that time you will have a strong 
eyder vinegar, which must be drawn off 
immediately. 

CYPRUS WINE (fo imitate). — To 
nine gallons of water, put nine quarts of 
the juice of white elder berries, which 
has been pressed gently from the ber- 
ries, and passed through a sieve without 
bruising the kernels of the berries; add 
to every gallon of the liquor three pounds 
of Lisbon sugar; to the whole quantity 
put an ounce and a half of ginger sliced, 
and three quarters of an ounce of cloves } 
then boil this near an hour, taking off 
the scum as it rises, and pour the whole 
to cool in an open tub, and work it with 
ale yeast, spread upon a toast of white 
bread, for three days, and then tun it 
into a vessel that will just hold it, adding 
about a pound and a half of raisins of the 
sun split, to lie in liquor till you draw it 
off, which should not be till the wine is 
fine, which you will find in January. 





off the liquor into the stewpan, put to it 

a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spvoa- 

ful of catsup, some pickled mushrooms, 
and a glass of white wine; let it boil till” 
it is of a proper thickness ; if there is any 
scum take it off, and pour the sauce over 
the fish.» oO ; 

DAMSONS Bottled.—Gather them on 
adry day before theyare ripe, when they 
have just turned their colour. Put them 
in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them 
close, and let them stand a fortnight 5; 
then carefully examine them, and if any 
of them are mouldy or spotted, take 
them out of the bottles, and cork the 
rest close. Put the bottles in sand, and 
they will keep good tillthe spring. = 

Damsons Candied.—After they have 
been preserved, dip them in warm 
brandy to wash off the syrup 3 then sift 
fine sugar over them, and set them to 
dry in a stove or oven. Do this, taking 
them out three or four times, and sift 
sugar over them, but do not letthem be 
cold before they are quite dry. 

Damson Cheese.*—Take eight pounes 
of damsons, and bake them in a jar till 
they are tender; then rub them through 
a cullender, put to them one pound and 
a half of lump sugar, and let them boil 
to the thickness of marmalade. = 

Damsons Dried.—Take damsons that - 
you have preserved, drain all the syrup 
from them, cover the bottoms of sieves 
with them, and put them into stoves 
which should be hot, change the sieves 
every day till they are dry, and as you 
change the sieves turn the damsons, 
and when they are not sticky nor likely 
to give, take them out, paper a box 
and put them in, and lay a paper be- 
tween each layer of damsons. 

Damsons Dried.—Make a thin syrup, 
let it boil, and skim it, then stone your 
damsons, and put them into the syrup; 
boil them up once, then leave them in 
the syrup; make another syrup with 
some refined sugar, with just sufficient 
water to damp it; boil this syrup till it 
is candied, then take the damsons out of 
the first syrup, and put them into the 
syrup you have just made} let them sim- 
mer in it a little over the fire, and leave 
them in afterwards, till the following 
day; then place them one by eneon a 
sieve, and dry them upon a stove or in 
nearly a cold oven, turning them twice a 
day. When they are dry, place them by 
layers, into boxes, with paper between 
each layer: keep them in a dry, cool 
place. 

Damson Drops.—Put some damsons 


D. 


DABS Fried.—Put oil, rendered lard 
or dripping, into a frying pan, sufhi- 
cient to cover the fish; let the fat boil 
before the fish is put in; dry the fish 
well witha cloth, and flour it; when 
fried, Jay it on acloth to drain. 

Dass Stewed. — Clean the dabs, and 
eut off the fins; put them intoa stewpan, 
with as much water as will cover them; 
put tothem an anchovy split, a blade of 
mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon- 
juice, and a shalot; let these simmer 
very slowly till they are done enough, | in the oven to bake, but not s0 much as 
skim them very clean, lay them to drain | to break; then skin and stone them, 
ina dish,but keep them hot; thenstrain | and pass them througha sieve ; sift some 





DAM ( 215 ) DAR 


common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, 
and mix with them; make it very thick, 
drop them off your knife on paper, and 
put them on the stove to dry 3 when 
they are quite dry, turn them on asieve, 
and wet the outside of the paper, and 
they will come off easily ; put them into 
the stove again till they are quite dry 
and hard, and then put them into pa- 
pered boxes. 

Damson Dumplings. — Make a good 
hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it 
in a basin, and put in as many damsons 
as you please. Wet the edge of the paste 
and close it up; boil it inacloth for an 
hour; pour melted butter over it, grate 
sugar round the edge of the dish, and 
serve. 

Damson Ice (Cream). — Take three 
ounces of preserved damsors, pound and 
break the stones of them, put them intoa 
basin, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint 
of cream; press them through a sieve, 
and freeze it. 

Danson Ice (/Vater).—Take a quarter 
of a pound of preserved damsons and 
break the stones; put them into a basin, 
squeeze in one lemon, add nearly a pint 
of water, and halfa gill of syrup; pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it rich. 

Damson Jelly. —To eight pounds of 
damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, 
and halfa pint of water; boil them for 
half an hour over a gentle fire, till the 
skins break ; then take them off, and 
set them by for an hour; set themon 
the fire again, for half au hour more ; set 
them by again for the same time ; do so 
the third time; while they stand off the 
fire, put _a weight upon them to keep 
them under the syrup. The last time, 
you must boil them till you perceive 
they are of a very high colour in the part 
where the skin is broken; then take 
them off, set them by to cool, and when 
they are cold, drain off the syrup, and 
make the jelly in the following manner: 
—Boila good quantity of green apples, 
green gooseberries, and quince cores, to 
a mash; then strain them through a hair 
sieve. Take an equal quantity of this 
jelly and the former syrup, and boil them 
over a gentle fire together till they jelly ; 
skim it well, and while it is hot, put 
itinto glasses or pots. ; 

Damsons fo keep.—Put them in small 
stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles ; set 
them up to their necks in a boiler of cold 
water, and lighting a fire under, scald 
them. Next day, when they are quite 
cold, fill up with spring-water, and 
cover them closely. 

Damsons (¢o preserve).*—Put_ a quart 
of damsons, with half a pound ot loaf 
sugar powdered fine, into a deep pot, 


with a layer of damsons; then strew ina 
handful of sugar, till you have put in 
what quantity you like; tie them close 
down; setthemin an ovenor ina pot 
of water over the fire; let them infuse 
till they are all melted; let them stand 
till cold, then drain the juice from them, 
boil it up well, and strain it till clear 5 
put it to your damsons, let them stand 
till cold, put a brandy paper over them, 
and cover the pot with a wet bladder. 

Damson Pudding.—Makea paste, and 
lay itin a basin; then fill it with ripe 
or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, 
boil it, and when it is ready to serve, cut 
a piece out of the top, mix with the fruit 
sifted sugar to the palate, and a small 
quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated 
nutmeg. 

Damson Pudding.—To a pint of cream 
or milk, add six eggs, four table-spoons- 
ful of sifted flour, a little salt, a little 
pounded cinnamon, and whisk them well 
together. Then take some ripe or bot- 
tled damsons, rub them through a hair- 
sieve, add to the mixture a sufficient 
quantity of the fine pulp, to make it, in 
substance, a little thicker than batter; 
sweeten it according to your taste, put 
it into a buttered basin, flour a cloth and 
tie over, let it boil for an hour and a 
quarter, and when you serve, turn it 
out of the basin, and pour melted butter 
all over. 

Damson Tart. — Make a nice crust, 
lire your dish, put in the fruit, and finish 
the same as for any other fruit pie. 

Damsons Whole, Vet.—TVake some of 
the largest and best damsons, and prick 
them at each end, boil some syrup cn a 
brisk fire, in a preserving pan, for aquar- 
ter of an hour; then put your damsons 
in, and boil them for twenty minutes; 
put them in an earthen pan, cover them 
up with paper, (as they boil, skim them 
well); the next day strain the syrup from 
them, and let it have a good boil; then 
put the damsons into pots, and, when 
cold, put some apple jelly over them. 

Damson /Vine.—Gather the damsons 
on a dry day, and bruise them. Put 
them into a stein, with a cock in it, and 
te every eight pounds of fruit, add a 
gallon of boiling water. In two days you 
may draw it off, and put it into a vessel, 
and to every gallonof the liquor, add two 
pounds and a half of fine sugar. Fill up 
the vessel, and stopitup close. Keep it 
in a cool cellar for twelve months, then 
bottle it, putting a lump of sugar into 
each bottle. Cork them well, and it will 
be fit for use in two months after. 

DARIOLS.*—Put rather more than 
halfa quartern of flour upon a pie-board, 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, a 


Se co tet 





DIA (216 ) 


little salt, and a glass of water; work 
the whole together, so as to make a 
firm paste, and then roll it to the thick- 
ness of half a finger: cut it into bits 
about the size ofa small patty-pan, and 
with your bands form them into moulds, 
having an edge raised about an inch 


deep; put them into an oven ofa moderate - 


heat, and in about seven minutes after- 
wards, put into each half a pint ofcream, 
mixed with two spoonsful of flour, very 
little salt, and one ounce Of sugar; when 
done, strew sugar over them. 

DEER (to Dress the Umbles of).— 
Take the kidneys of a deer, with the fat 
of the heart; season them with a little 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; first fry them, 
and afterwards stew them in some good 
gravy, till they are tender; squeeze in 
# little lemon; take the skirts, and stuff 
them with a forcemeat, made with the 
fat of the venison, some fat of bacon, and 
grated bread, pepper, mace, sage, and 
onion, chopped very small; mix it with 
the yolk of an egg; whenthe skirts are 
stufled with this forcemeat, tie them to 
the spit to roast, but first lard them with 
thyme and lemon-peel; when they are 
done, lay the skirts in the middle of the 
dish, the fricassée round it. 

DENTS de Loup.*—Fold two sheets 
of paper lengthways, like a fan, then 
double, and butter the paper, and spread 
itopen. Break twoeggs into a pan, and 
mix with them four spoonsful of powder- 
sugar, two of flour, and the grated rind 
of two lemons, when well mixed, adda 
quarter of a pound of melted butter. 
Take a spoonful of this preparation, and 
pour it on the edge cf your’paper, guid- 
ing it along the folds with your finger; 
then take another spoonful, and do the 
same, leaving a space between each fold, 
that they may not touch in baking; 
sprinkle them with sugared aniseed, and 
bake them in a well-heated oven ; shake 
them from the paper carefully, so as not 
to break them, as soon as they come from 
the oven. 

DEVONSHIRE White Pot. — Beat 
up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little 
salt, some sliced nutmeg, anda good deal 
of sugar; then slice very thin, almost the 
whole of the crumb of a penny loaf; put 
it into a dish; pour the eggs and cream 
to it; a handtul of raisins of the sun 
boiled, and a little sweet butter: bake it. 

DIABLOTINS.—Pwuund some choco- 
late, with a little olive oil, into a stiff 
paste, of which, take small pieces, and 
rol} them in your hands, into the shape 
of nuts, olives, &c. either round or flat; 
strew over them nonpareils of ditlerent 
colours, and dry them in cases like other 
sweetmeats. 


DIS 

Drapiotins.* — Take a cold vanilla 
cream renversée (see that recipe), and 
when quite col¢, cut it into dice; throw 
these into flour; cover them well, and 
fry them a little in a hot pan; when 
tolerably black, drain; sprinkle them 
with sugar, and serve them. — 

Diasrotins en Cannellons.* — Take 
six ounces of filberts, blanch and pound 
them, adding, by degrees, three glasses of 
boiling cream; then press them through 
a napkin, to extract as much milk from 
them as you possibly can, which pour (a 
little at a time), on two spoonsful of rice- 
flour; mix them well; take care there 
are no lumps; and having added three 
ounces of powder-sugar, and a grain of 
salt, set the whole over a moderate fire 
for thirty or forty minutes, stirring it 
constantly, when it will have become 
a firm smooth paste. Pour it on @ 
slightly buttered slab; spread it out with 
a knife, making it about three quarters 
of an inch thick. When it is quite cold, 
cut it into pieces about three inches 
long, and three quarters of an inch wide; 
sprinkle them with flour; roll them 
round lightly; dip one at a time into 
batter, (the same as what you use for 
Fritters @ la Parisienne), and fry them 
in a hot pan; when they are of a nice 
colour, drain them on a napkin ; sprinkle 
them with sugar, and glaze them either 
in the oven or with a salamander. 

DISTILLING.* — Distillation is the 
process of extracting the spirituous and 
aromatic particles, from various sub- 
stances and liquids in which they are 
enveloped, and likewise separating them 
from earthy and saline particles, with 
which they are mixed. This process is 
performed by means of heat; and the 
vapour -bath, water-bath, and sand-bath, 
are ie three methods usually prac- 
tised. 

The vapour-bath produces the most 
moderate degree of Heat necessary for 
distilling. A metal, or earthen vessel, 
filled to about two-thirds with water, is 
set on a furnace, over this is placed the 
alembic, containing the substance to be 
distilled; as soon as the water boils, the. 
vapour rises, and striking the bottom of 
the alembic connmunicates its heat there + 
to, which forces the volatile or lighter 
parts of its contents to rise, and separate | 
themselves from the grosser ones. 

The water-bath is more commonly 
made use of than the above, being less 
dificult to manage; and in distilling 
plants or flowers, which are liable to 
burn, or are heavy, and require liquid, 
it is far better than the other. 

The water-bath differs from the va- 
pour- bath in this respect, that the alem- 


DIS (217) 


bic is immersed in the water, which 
instantly communicates the degree of 
heat it receives. 

The Sand-bath is resorted to when 
a very strong degree of heat is neces- 
sary: a vessel filled with sand is placed 
on the fire, and the alembic completely 
buried in it; this last process, however, 
requires the utmost precaution. 

Glass, or earthen vessels, are pre- 
ferable in distilling waters; but if they 
are not sufficiently large to contain the 
whole of the liquid, copper ones, if well 
tinned, may be employed instead. 
Earthen vessels should be perfectly 
baked, free from blemish, and previously 
proved. 

Great care is necessary that the fire 
be not too fierce at the commencement 
of the operation, as the vessels employed 
are liable to break when exposed sud- 
denly to a strong heat; the fire should 
therefore be increased gradually. 

Observe, that when a substance re- 
quires repeated distillation, the fire 
should be increased for each operation. 

Also observe: that the distilled liquid 
ought to fiow from the alembic in one 
continued, though small stream; if it 
come by drops only, the liquor obtained 
will be but slightly impregnated with the 
essential oil. 

The first drops which flow from the 
alembic are called phlegm, and should 
not be mixed with the distilled liquid 5 
it is therefore better to place’ a small 
glass under the mouth of the alembic ; 
when nearly half filled, remove it, and 
put the vessel in which the distilled 
substance is to ve received. iol 

The various vessels used in distilling 
ought to be very closely cemented to- 
gether; the material for this purpose is 
cailed /ute ; and is also used to put over 
the corks of the bottles containing spi- 
rituous liquors. ; - 

The best Jute is made with linseed oil, 
a small quantity of litharge, to give it 
dryness, and very dry clay reduced to 
powder ; by beating these ingredients well 
in a mortar, a thick paste is produced, 
which is easily spread over the edges of 
the vessels, and effectually excludes the 
air. This paste will continue moist 
and ductile for a long time. 

Another lute is coraposed of clay, sand, 
and cow-hair, or hemp; this is generally 
used to put over such vessels as are liable 
to crack, or melt, on being exposed to 
very strong heat. 

Lutum Sapientia is made of slacked 
lime, flour, and clay, finely pulverised 
and sifted; bound together with whites 
of eggs, beaten up with water, ; 

The best method of excluding the air 


DRA 


from bottles, is, by dipping the corks in 
a mixture of white wax and beef-suet, in 
the proportion of two-thirds of the for- 
mer to one-third of the latter; and then, 
when the corks are well driven into'the 
bottles, to cover them with the first- 
mentioned lute. ; 

DBOTTERELS. — They are to be 
roasted the same as Ortolans, 

DOVES.—The turtle-dove is distin- 
guished by a blueish ring round its neck, 
the other parts being almost white. The 
stock-dove-exceeds both the wood-pigeon 
and ring-dove in size. When they are 
fresh and fat, they are limber-footed, and 
feel full in the vent; but when stale, 
their vents are green and flabby. 

DRAGEES (Common).*—The paste 
for these dragées is made in the same 
manner as for the better sort, but the 
materials differ a little: thus to a quar- 
ter of a pound of the gum, take either 
equal quantities of sugar and powder, 
or one-third of the former to two-thirds 
of the latter. When these and the gum 
are wel! mixed, roll out the paste until 
it is as thin as the back ofa knife- blade; 
then take a paste-cutter, shaped like a 
sugar-loaf, with the top taken off, with 
the largest end of which, cut as many 
pieces of the paste as will about two- 
thirds fill the cutter; press these through 
the smaller end into paper cases; set 
them in a warm place for several days. 
These kind of dragées may, if liked, be 
sugared in the same manner as almonds. 

Dracees en Pastillage.*—These dra- 
gées are made of the same materials as 
the superfine dragées ; the only differ- 
ence consists in their forms, which 
resemble the bonbons ; to make them, 
it is necessary to have a number of 
wooden moulds, (pear-tree wood is the 
best), on which must be stamped smal! 
squares, with various devices engravedon 
them. Cut your paste into small pieces ; 
press each piece on a mould; take off all 
the super-abundant paste ; then dip your 
finger in water, and with it remove the 
paste from the mould; dry them in cases 
like the other dragées. 

Dracees, Superfine,*—Put a quarter 
of a pound of the best gum-dragon into a 
pan, with a pint of cold water, cover, and 
let it stand for twenty-four hours; then 
take a strong close cloth, about two feet 
long, and puta part of your gum into it; 
fold it three times, so as to envelop the 
gum; then wring the cloth, by which 
means the purest gum will be forced 
through; scrape it off carefully with a 
knife, and then proceed in the same way, 
until all the gum be strained; put it into 
a marble mortar, and stir it about with a 
an half an hour; then add toita 


‘i 





DUC ( 218 ) DUC 


pound of double-refined sifted sugar ; mix 
them together well, until it becomes a 
stiff paste; divide this into five parts, 
four of which must be tinged as follows : 
red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth 
left white), with the usual colouring ma- 
terials. Before, however, they are co- 
loured, add to each piece, a pound anda 
half of double-refined sugar, sifted, 
dippiag the paste in water occasionally, 
to enable it to receive the additional 
quantity of sugar. When you mix in the 
colouring maierials, add also a corre- 
sponding perfume: as, to the red, rose- 
water, and a few drops of essence of 
roses; to the blue, oil of violets; to the 
yellow, essence of cedar; to the green, 
essence of bergamot; and with the white, 
mix a little orange-flower water, and 
some drops of essence of Nérol. 

Your paste being thus prepared, form 
it of whatever little ornaments you please, 
such as eggs, balls, turnips, (adding 
green leaves tothese), &c. of the white; of 
the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; 
plums, &c. of the blue ; and so on; rolling 
them in your hands to smooth them, and 
make them all quite small; to those 
which imitate fruits, add tails and tops, 
cut from cherry-stalks, and stuck on 
whilst the paste is damp; and with a hair- 
pencil, dipped in powdered cinnabar, 
tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, 
slightly breathing on them to moisten 
the surface. When all are done, put 
them into paper cases, and set them in 
a warm place for several days, to dry. 

DUCK en Aiguillettes.*—When the 
duck is about three parts done, accord- 
ing to the directions for duck poé/é, drain 
and place it on the dish; then mak 
eight incisions on the breast, four on 
each side; take a tea-spoonful of shalots 
shred fine, put them into a stewpan with 
two ladlesful of d/ond, pepper, nutmeg, 
and salt; boil them together a little 
while, add the juice of two lemons, and 
pour this sauce on the breast, so that it 
mav flow into the incisions. 

Duck, Fillets of, en Allumettes.*— 
Cut the meat off a roasted duck, into 
long fillets, dip them in good batter, and 
fry them infresh butter of a good colour; 
as soon as they are done, strew over 
them some fine salt, and having fried 
some chervil for five minutes in the same 
pan, lay it ina dish, with the fillets on 
it, arranged like bundles of matches. 

Ducks, Botled.—Take a nice fat duck; 
salt it two days, then let it boil slowly in 
acloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but 
melt the butter with milk, instead of 
water. 

Duck, Boiled a la Frangaise.—Put 
wo dozen of roasted chesnuts into a pint 


ofrich beef gravy, with a few leaves of 
thyme, two small onions, if agreeable, a 
little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; 
then take a tame duck, lard it, and haif 
roast it; put it into the gravy, and let it, 
stew for ten minutes; put in a quarter 
of a pint of red wine; when the duck is. 
done enough take it out, boil up the 
gravy to a proper thickness; skim off 
the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour 
the sauce over it. * mas! 

Ducks, Braised.*—Lard two young 
ducks, and place them in a braising-pan 
with a slice of ham, onions, salt, pepper,, 
a bay-leaf, and a glass of stock 5 close 
the pan, and Jet it stand over a gentle 
fire till done; serve them with their own 
liquor, Morels, capers, and artichoke- 
bottoms may be added, they must be: 
cooked separately in consommé or veal, 
gravy. die 

Ducks @ la Bruaelles.*—Cut a veal. 
sweetbread and some streaked bacon into, 
dice, and mix them with some mush- - 
rooms, green onions, parsley, and two 
shalots, all shred fine, some salt, and. 
whole pepper; put the whole into the 
inside of the duck; sew it upto prevent, 
any from falling out, and stew the duck, 
with a thin slice of bacon on its breast,. 
with a large glass of white wine, as much, 
stock, two onions, a carrot, half a par-, 
snip, and a bundle of sweet herbs. When 
done, strain off the sauce, skim, and add. 
a little cullis to thicken it. 

Ducks, to choose.—Their feet should 
be supple, and they should be hard and 
thick on the breast and belly. The feet 
of a tame duck are thick, and inclining 
toadusky yellow. The feet of a wild 
duck are reddish, and smaller than the 
tame ; they should be picked dry. Duck- 
lings should be scalded. 

Duck ( Cullis of ).—Roast a duck, and 
then pound it in a mortar; then frysome 
rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and 
put them into a stewpan with a handful 
of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, 
and some savory, let them all stew toge- 
ther ; when they have stewed some time, 
pound them with the meat of the duck, 
and toss them up in a pan with melted . 
lard; put in some veal gravy to give ita . 
pale colour, ang strain it. 

DUCKLINGS 4 la Curmelite.*—Lard | 
the fleshy parts of a couple of young | 
ducks, and put them into a stewpan. 
with equal quantities of broth and white 
wine, a little coriander-seed, a slice or 
two of lemon, and some truffles, cover 
your pan, and stew them. When done, 
take off the fat, and serve with their own 
gravy. 

Duck, dressed in different ways.— 
Take either a jarge duck, or two cuck- 





DUC 


lings, which truss like a fowl for boiling} 
put it intoa put (just about large enough 
to hold the duck) with thin slices of 
bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, 
pepper, salt, onions, carrots, a head of 
celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
two cloves, anda bay-leaf; when done, 
take out the duck, wipe the fat off very 
clean, and serve with what sauce or ra- 
gotit you choose, such as sweetbreads, 
green-pease, turnips, chesnuts, olives, 
cucumbers, or any sort of stewed greens, 
according to the season, 

Ducks, Fricasseed. — Quarter them, 
beat them well with the back of a knife, 
dry them well, fry them in fresh butter; 
when they are almost done, put in some 
onions shred small, and a little thyme; 
add a little claret, thin slices of bacon, 
parsley and spinach, boiled green, and 
slired small. Break the yolks of three 
egzs into a dish, with a little pepper, 
and some grated nutmeg, toss them up 
with a ladleful of drawn butter; pour 
this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon 
them, and serve. 

Docxurne, Fricasseed.—Cut the duck- 
lings into small pieces, dry them, flour 
them, and fry them in butter; then 
take a little canary, some parsley, and 
Onien, chopped small; a little whole 
pepper, and a blade of mace; add to 
these some sugar, butter, and verjuice; 
then pick the stalks off from a good 
handful of clary ; makea batter of three 
or four eggs, flour, and cream, with a 
little nutmeg; fry these, and having 
placed your duckling on a dish, pour 
the fried clary, &c. upon them, and 
serve. 

Duck, Fillets of, and Truffles.* —Hav- 
ing cut your fillets, toss them up ina 
little butter, with parsley and shalots, 
shred fine. Take a dozen of truffles, 
soak them in white wine, and slice them; 
place a layer of the fillets into a stewpan, 
then a layer of the sliced truffles, and 
so on, alternately (strewing small pieces 
of fresh butter on the truffles), until all 
your materials are used; cook them 
over a slow fire till done, when place 
them in the dish for table; pour white 
wine and consommé, of each half a glass, 
into the same stewpan, boil thei toge- 
ther for about a quarter of an hour; 
skim, and then pour it over the fillets. 

Dvck en Grenade.*—Bone a duck, 
beginning with the back, without break- 
ing the skin; and cut the whole of the 
meat into dice; do the same with truf- 
fles, veal sweetbreads, breast of fowl, 
and bacon; cook these over a gentle fire, 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the 
yolks of three eggs to thicken it, stir it 
well, and then put it in the skin of the 


( 219 ) 


DUC 


duck, giving it the form of a balloon or 
oval, fasten up the ends, and cook it 
like a fricandeaux, over a slow fire 3 re- 
duce the gravy that it yields toa jelly, 
and glaze your duck with it, and add to 
the sauce consommé, veal gravy, &c. 

Duck, Hashed.—Cut a duck in pieces, 
and flour it; put in a stewpan some 
gravy, a little port wine, shalots chop- 
ped fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of 
lemon}; boil this 3 then putin the duck, 
toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve 
with toasted sippets. 

Duck, Hashed in different Ways.— 
Roast a couple of ducks till they are 
three parts done, and let them cool; 
then cut the breast in thin slices, taking 
care to preserve the gravy 3 the legs will 
serve for another dish, which you may 
dress by wrapping them in a cowl witha 
good farce, and serve with cullis sauce 5 


for the slices you have cut from the 


breast, cut cucumbers, and marinate 
them about an hour with a little vinegar, 
salt, and one oniun sliced; then take 
out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers 
in acloth, and putthem into a stewpan 
with a bit of butter, aslice of ham, a 
little stock, flour, and veal gravy ; boil 
slowly, skim it well, take out the ham, 
and then put in the duck to warm, with- 
out boiling. You may likewise do the 
same with chopped truffles or mushe 
rooms, or any thing else you may think 
proper, according to the season. A 
cold roasted duck will answer much the 
same purpose for this dish. 

Duck in Hoteh-pot.*—Cut a duck into 
quarters, and stew it in a small pot, with 
some turnips, the quarter of a cabbage, 
parsnips, carrots, and onions sliced, (all 
parboiled,} some good stock, a bit of 
streaked bacon cut in slices, with the 
rind left on, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
a little salt. When the whole is done, 
put the duck into a tureen, and the ve- 
getables round it; skim the fat off the 
liquor in which the vegetables were 
stewed ; add a little cullis to thicken the 
sauce, which must be served over the 
duck. 

Duck, Fillets of, a la Mamelle.*—Cut 
the fillets from two or three young ducks, 
about two thirds roasted, taking care to 
collect the gravy, and put it into a stew- 
pan ; add to it halfa glass of white wine, 
the same of veal gravy, or good consommé, 
a liver, two truffles, both cut small, salt 
and spices; let these stand over a slow 
fire to thicken ; put your ducks in, and 
finish cooking them, taking care that the 
sauce only simmers the whole time. 

Ducks, drotled with Mushrooms.—The 


‘inside being taken out of a couple of 


sta bb the legs under the skin, and 


DUC 


with a knife, divide them in two, by.cut- 
ting them down the middle; beat them 
with a wooden spoon, dip them in some 
good clarified butter, and lay them on 
the gridiron over a gentile charcoal fire. 
The inside must lay. towards the fire till 
nearly done; then turn them on the 
other side; let them be of a nice brown 
colour ; and whilst they are broiling, 
every now and then, sprinkle pepper 
and salt over them; when done, lay them 
on the dish, and pour mushroom sauce 
over them. 

Duck with Olives.*—Prepare and dress 
your duck asin Poélé ; take the meat of 
the olives from the stone, like a cork- 
screw, being careful not to break it, that 
it may return to its proper form; throw 
them into hot water, and give them a 
boil, or put them into a saucepan with 
four spoonsful of espagnole, twice as 
much consommé, and a little pepper ; 
reduce this to a third, over a fierce fire ; 
put it to the duck, and keep it hot in 
the bain-marie. 

Ducks, with Oysters. — Take wild 
ducks, truss them, make a ragofit with 
veal. sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, 
and oysters, seasoned with fine herbs 
and parsley; when it is almost done, 
farce the ducks with it; tie them up 
well, and roast them; serve them very 
hot, witha mushroom cullis poured all 
over. 

Ducks, with young Pease.—Well roast 
two ducks, then neatly cut them up all 
but the back bone, and put them in a 
stewpan with young pease, that have 
been well stewed in plenty of cream 
sauce 3 shake in a liazson of the yolks of 
two eggs, with a little cream, and serve 
them in a tureen or a dish, with a good 
border of paste. 

Duck aw Pere Douillet.* — Take a 
duck, and put it into astewpan just large 
enough to hold it, with a bunch of par- 
sley and green onions, aclove of garlic, 
thyme, a bay-leaf, basil, some cloves, 
some coriander-seeds, sliced onions, 
a carrot, aparsnip, a slice of butter, two 
glasses of stock, and one glass of white 
wine; then reduce it over the fire to the 
consistence of a sauce, and serve itover 
the duck. 

Docks au Pere Douillet.*—Lard a 
couple of young ducks, and fill them 
with a farce made as follows:—chop up 
the meat of a fowl, the two livers of the 
ducks, two sausages, a little ham, and 
five or six truffles, previously beiled in 
red wine mix these with the yolks of 
eggs, with here and there a little sliced 
lemon, and a pinch of coriander-seed ; 
fasten this inas usual, and roast them. 

Ducx Pie.—Bone a full grown duck, 


( 220 ) 


DUC 


and bone also afowl; wash them, season 
them with pepper, salt, and a small 
quantity of mace and allspice, in the 
finest powder. Put the fowl withinside 
the duck, and into the fowl put a calf’s 
tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, 
and peeled; press the wliole ¢ ose; the 
skins of the legs must be drawn inwards, 
that the body of the duck and fowl may 
be quite smooth. If you choose, the 
space between the sides of the crust may 
be filled with a fine forcemeat; let it 
bake in a slow oven, either in a raised 
crust.or pie-dish with a thick crust or- 
namented according to taste. Pr 

Duck Pie.—Scald a couple of ducks, 
and make them very clean; cut off the 
feet, pinions, necks, and heads. Take . 
out the gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick 
all clean, and scaldthem. Pick out the 
fat of the inside, lay a good puff-paste 
erust all over the dish, season the ducks 
both inside and out, with pepper and 
salt, and lay them in the dish, with the 
giblets at each end, properly seasoned. 
Put in as much water as will nearly fill 
the pie, lay on the crust, and let it be 
well baked. ; 

Duck Pie.—Prepareacouple of ducks 
the same as for roasting, and parboil 
them ; then lard them with large lardons 
of bacon, and the lean of ham, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, spice, sweet herbs, 
and parsley, shred small ; make your 
paste, roll it out an inch thick, raise 
your pie; lay all over the bottom of it 
pounded bacon seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, spices, sweet herbs, and parsley, 
shred fine; then lay in the ducks, and 
fill up the spaces with mutton cutlets, 
larded and seasoned, with the above- 
mentioned seasoning; then strew some 
of the same seasoning over the ducks and 
cutlets, and lay thin slices of veal over 
the whole, and thin slices of bacon over 
the veal; then put in a piece of butter; 
lay the lid on the pie, and put it in the 
oven ; let it stand four or five hours in 
the oven; while it is baking, make a ra-. 
goat of mushrooms, truffles, cock’s- 
combs, livers, and sweetbreads, tossed 
up in a stewpan, with melted lard, 
moistened with gravy; let these simmer, 
over a gentie fire for half an hour, skim 
off the fat, and thicken it with a cullis 
of vealand ham. When the pie comes 
out of the oven, place it in a dish, cut it 
open, take out the bacon and veai, take 
off the fat that swims at the top; pourin 
the ragoiit, and serve the pie hot. 

Ducxiine P2e.—Scald two ducklings, 
and clean them properly, and cut them 
into quarters, and put them intoa pie 
upon a good farce, with two slices of 
peeled lemon over them to keep white, 


puc 


and season the same as for other poul- 


try ; mix two glasses of white wine, with. 
some good cullis, and boi! it some time - 


together to reduce it to a good consist- 
ence, Serve this sauce in the pie. 

Ducks, Poélés Sauce Bigarade.* — 
The ducks being singed, drawn, and 
trussed, as usnal, rub the breasts with 
lemon-juice, and lay them in a stewpan 
with slices of bacon under and over them, 
and cook them in a poé/é, but do not 

ut them on the fire until about an hour 

efore dinner. When ready for table, 
place them on your dish, and pour over 
them the following sauce: three ladles- 
ful of espagnole travaillé, a little pepper, 
the juice, and part of the rind of a Se- 
ville orange; give it one boil only before 
you use it. 

Docxtirnes en Purée.*—Truss a cou- 
ple of ducklings like chickens, and hav- 
ing made a light farce of white meats 
and bacen pounded, lettuce, salt, pep- 
per, &c. fill the ducklings with it, wrap 
them in slices of bacon, and do them in 
a pint of stock over ayentle fire. Boil 
some young pease in veal gravy, add to 
them slired parsley, sweet herbs,savory, 
&e.; when done, rub them through a 
sieve, and serve your ducklings with the 
purée round them. 

DUCK @ la purée de Lentilles,*— 
Prepare the duck as for poélés, and hav- 
ing laid it in a saucepan on slices of ba- 
con, cover it with the sauce, and a few 
slices of fillet of veal, with two carrots, 
three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, a 
little thyme, parsley and scallions; pour 
on this a ladleful of broth, and leave it 
for three quarters of an hour or longer, if 
necessary. When done, dish it, and pour 
either over or under it, according to its 
Nabi tang and delicacy, a purée of len- 
tils. 

Docks Roasted. — Season them with 
sage and onion shred, pepper and salt; 
half an hour will roast them. Gravy- 
sauce or Onion sauce. Always stew the 
sage and onion in a little water, as it pre- 
vents its eating strong, and takes off the 
rawness of them. 

Duckuines Roasted.—They must not 
be seasuned ; they will be roasted in ra- 
ther fess than halfan hour. Serve with 
gravy and gooseberry sauce. 

Ducxuines Rolled. — Make a good 
forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good 


the farce upon it; rollit up, tie slices of 
bacon round it, and boil it in a little 
stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and two cloves; when 
done, squeeze the fat gently out, and 
wipe the duck clean; serve with what 
Sauce you please. ° 


( 221 ) 





DUC 


Duck Wild.—These birds should be 
fat, the claws small, reddish and supple ; 
if not fresh, on opening the beak they 
will smell disagreeable ; the breast and 
rump should be firm and heavy; the 
flesh of the hen-bird is the most delicate, 
though the cock generally fetches the 
highest price. Pick them dry, cut the 
wings very close to the body, take off the 
necks, draw and singe them, truss up 
the legs and skewer them; and having 
rubbed them with their livers, spit, and 
roast them ; take them up with the gravy 
in, and serve with lemons. i 

Ducks Wild. — The entrails being 
taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them 
well with a cloth; put into the inside a 
bit of butter rolled in pepper and salt; 
when trussed, spit, and roast them 
quickly for a quarter of an hour, which 
will be enough, as the gravy should not 
run out before they aretaken up; shake 
flour and salt over them, and froth them 
with butter. Put good strong gravy un- 
der them, and you may serve them with 
hot port wine in a boat. 

Duck Wild.—Half roast them ; when 
they are brought to table slice the breast, 
strew on pepper and salt, pour over them 
a little port wine, and squeeze the juice 
of an orange or lemon over; add some 
gravy to this, setthe plate over alamp, 
cnt up the bird, let it remain over the 
lamp till done, now and then turning it. 

Duck (Wild) Fillets of, d ’ Orange.*— 
Take the breasts of four wild ducks with 
the skins on, and soak them in oil, with 
salt, pepper, an onion, and some parsley. 
About an hour before dinner time skewer 
and tie them on a spit, and roast them 
for half an hour; then cut them in fillets, 
leaving the skin on; put these intoa 
little jelly, keep them hot without boil- 
ing, and when wanted for table, arrange 
them in a dish, and serye with orange 
sauce under them, 

Duck (Wild) Salmis of.*—Cut off the 
best parts of a couple of roasted wild 
ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a 
mortar, with six shalots, a little parsley, 
some pepper, and a bay-leaf, pound all 
these ingredients together well, and then 
put them into a saucepan with four ladles- 
full of espagnole, half a glass of white 
wine, the same of broth, and a little 
grated nutmeg; reduce these to half, 


f roa | strain them, and having laid the pieces 
sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay | 


on a dish, cover them with the above: 
keep the whole hot, not boiling, until 
wanted for table. 

Duck (Wild,) Salmisof, au Chasseur .* 
—Cut the meat of two wild ducks into 
small pieces, lay them in salt and pep- 
per, ant’ pour on them four spoonsful of 
ees half a glass of Bordeaux 


DUC. 


Wine ; squeeze over them the juice of two 
lemons, stir the whole together well, and 
Serve. ’ 
Duck and Sauer Kraut.*—Wash and 
put two pounds of sauer krautintoasauce- 


pan, with streaky bacon, sausages and a. 


servelas, moisten them with rich skim- 
mings, boil it for three hours, then take 
out the sérvelas and sausages, and put 
in acouple of ducks, properly singed and 
trussed, and let them simmer for an hour; 
then drain them and the sauer -kraut, 
place the latter round the ducks, on it the 
bacon, servelas, and sausages. 

Ducks (Wild) Scallops of Fillets of. *— 
Take the fillets of three wild ducks, and 
cut them into round scallops, which 
should be beaten with the handle of the 
knife, and then jlaid in a pan, with four 
spoonsful of olive oil, and well covered 
with pepper and salt, lay an oiled paper 
over, and just before they are wanted, 
toss up your scallops; when both sides 
are brown drain off the oil, cover the 
scallops with a good porvrade, add a sniall 
quantity of oil and lemon juice; put some 
bread fried in oil in the dish, and serve 
them. 

Ducks Stewed with Red Cabbage.*— 
Singe and truss your ducks, pepper an 
salt the inside, and let them stew very 
gently for an hour and a half or two 
hours, in some good braise that beef or 
cutlets have been stewedin. Whilst they 
are stewing, shred a cabbage very fine, 
wash it, and let it drain for a few minutes 
on a sieve, put itto stew with a good 
piece of butter, and some pepper and 
salt, in a stewpan very closely covered, 
shaking every three or four minutes. In 
case it should get dry and burn at the 
bottom, add nearly a ladleful of good 
stock ; when well done and tender, mix 
in a small glass of vinegar, lay it on the 
dish, and the ducks over it; cover it, 


’ and serve it to table. 


_ Ducxs Tame.—They may be dressed 
in the same manner as geese, with sage 
and onion, and apple in a sauce boat; or, 
you may stulf it with fried sausages or 
parboiled chesnuts, and then roast it. 

Ducks with Truffles.*—Singe and truss 
neatly a couple of fine ducks, and having 
some truffles stewed with chopped pars- 
ley, thyme, and mushrooms, put a few of 
them inside the ducks; spit them with 
bards of bacon all over them, and roast 
them with truffles, and serve them with 
a sauce a@ lespagnole, or brown sauce. 
Wild ducks may be dressed in the same 
manner, 

Duck and Turnips.* — This dish is 
prepared exactly in the same way as with 
apurée of lentils, with the addition of 
five or six turnips in the stewpan, and 


( 222 ) 


DUM 


substituting a ragoit of tarnips, fee the 
1 that recipe, 
must not cover the duck, if it be very 


purée of lentils, which, as in t 


white and plump. : 
Ducks with Vegetables.* —-Take the 
fillets, (cut crosswise) from a couple of 


roasted ducks, and soak them for half an 
/ hour in water and vinegar with salt; 


then boil your vegetables, whether pease, 
turnips, cucumbers, &c., with, stock or 
veal gravy, and when tolerably rich, put 
in the fillets for a quarter of an hour, 
then add the juice of a lemon, and serve 
very hot. 

“DUMPLINGS Hard.—Mix as for a 
paste, some flour with small beer or 
water, and alittle salt ; roll them in balls 
rather larger than an egg; when the 
water boils put themin: half an hour 
will boil them;.currants may be added; 
they are good boiled with beef. They 
are eaten either with cold or melted 
butter. 

Dumpuines Norfolk.—With a pint of 
milk, two eggs, a little salt, and some 
flour, make a batter; drop this in small 
quantities into a pot of boiling water; they 
will be boiled in three minutes; throw 
them into a sieve or cullender to drain. 

Dump.iine Paste.—Make a paste with 
flour, milk, salé and yeast; let it stand 
some timein a warm place to ferment; 
then cut the paste into pieces of what 
size you please, and boil them a good 
while; let them cool; then cut each into 
two, and soak them in milk, sugar, and 
lemon-peel, about an hour, and drain 
and flour them fit for frying ; or, you 


may dip them in oil or melted butter to’ 


broil, basting with the same as they were 
dipped in. . : 
Dumruine Paste Pie.—Make a puff- 
paste with flour, eggs, butter, salt, and 
cold water; when it is well worked, let 
it stand some time; then roll half ofitin 
very thin sheets, and cut it into small 
pieces; put them into boiling water with 
a little salt, let them boil a few minutes, 
and take care to separate them in boil~ 
ing; then put them in fresh water a mo- 
ment, and drain it out; make a pie of 


the remainder of the paste, with butter. 


and Parmesan cheese at the bottom; 
then a layer of the scalded paste, and one 
of truffles or mushrooms, mixed with 
butter, then more paste, and so continue 
till all is laid one over the other ; finish 
with the butter and cheese, cover it over 
with paste like all other pies, and let it 
bake an hour and a half in a moderate 
oven. 

Dumruine Scotch.—Make a paste of 
oatmeal and water, put in the middle of, 
ita haddock’s liver, season it well with, 
pepper and salt, and boilit ina cloth. 


Pa 





4 


ECH 


- DURCELLE.* — Take small mush- { 
rooms,shalots,parsley and truffles, a quart 
of each, shred and wash them well, and 
press them dry in a napkin; then put 
them in astewpan, witha quarter of a 
pound of butter, the same of. grated ba- 
con, a pint of white wine, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spice, a 

ay-leaf, and a little garlic ; reduce the 
whole to a jelly, taking care to stir it fre- 
quently.s add to it four spoonsful of re- 

uced allemande, put it into a pan, and 
set it by for use. 


E. 


EAU D’ARGENT.*—Take the rinds 
of two oranges, the same of two lemons, 
two drachms of cinnamon, broken in 

ieces, and two quarts of brandy’; distil 
rom this in the dain marie alembic a 
quart of igueur. Dissolve two pounds 
and a garter of sugar in three pints of 
river water, put the dgweur to it, strain, 
bottle, and finish it with silver leaf, as 
directed. See Hau d’ Or. 

Eau de la Céte.*—Take half a pound 
of the best cinnamon in powder, half a 
pound of dates, half a pound of the best 
Turkey figs, and the zestés of four ce- 
drats, put all these into three gallons of 
brandy. Let them infuse for six days 3. 
at the end of that period distil in a dain 
murie; from this you will extract six 
quarts of the dgueur. Dissolve nine 
pounds of fine sugar in six quarts of dis- 
tilled river water, add it to the ligueur, 

ass the whole through a jelly bag, and 
ttle it. | 

Eaud’ Or.*—Take the rinds of two fine 
lemons, and halfa drachm of mace, put 
to them twe quarts of brandy; distil this 
in a bain marce alembic, which will afford 
half the quantity of Mqueur. Dissolve a 

und and ahalfof sugar ina quart of 

istilled water, and halfa pound of orange- 
flower water; put this to the léqueur, 
colour it witha little tincture of saffron, 
strain and bottle it. Take a book of gold 
leaf, some of which put ina basin, pour a 
smail quantity of the liqueur on it, beat 
it up with afork, and put alittle parcel of 
it into each bottle. _ 

ECHAUDE’S.* —Lay a quartern of 
flops on a paste board or slab, makea 

ole in the centre, in which put an ounce 
of salt, and alittle water to dissolve it, a 
pound of butter, twenty eggs; mix the 


two latter well together, then the flour ; |. 


work it thoroughly with your hands, if 

it be very firm add more eggs. When 
rfectly smooth, sprinkle a cloth with 
our, lay the paste in-it, and set it in a 

cool place for ten or twelve hours. The } 


( 225 ) 


BEL 


next day heat about three quarts of 
water, and having cut your. paste into 
small pieces, about an inch square, and 
having floured each, put them into hot 
but not boiling water, shake the kettle 
the instant after you have thrown them 
in, and as they rise, if they are firm to 
the touch, they are sufficiently done, and 
must be taken out of the saucepan, and 
thrown into cold water; let them remain 
two or three hours; then drain, and 
leave them again for three hours or more, 
and then bake them for about twenty 
minutes, + ; 2 

EELS Baked. — Skin and clean some 
eels; take a shallow pan, and cut the 
eels in lengths according to the depth of 
the pan; put them in, letting them stand 
uprightin it; the pan should be filled; 
put in a little water, some salt, pepper, 
shalots cut small, some sweet herbs, and. 
a little parsley cut small ; set them.in the 
oven to bake; when they are done take 
the liquor that comes from them, put it 
into a saucepan, and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little 
white wine, 

Eris Boiled. —The smallest are the 
best for boiling; they should be boiled 
in asmal!l quantity of water, with a good 
deal of parsley, which must be served up 
with them and the liquor. Serve with 
chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 

Eet @ la Broche*—Skin, and cut a 
large eel into pieces, stick them with 
small pieces of anchovies, and soak them 
a quarter of an hour in vinegar, with salt, 
pepper, and small onions; after that time 
rub the pieces with butter, wrap them in 
paper, and roast them. Lay as many 
pieces of buttered toast as you may re- 
quire on adish, and on each a slice of 
broiled ham, a piece of eel on that, and 
serve with any sauce you may think pro- 


per. 

Eris Brotled.—Skin and cleanse your 
eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, 
strew bread-crumbs over them, chopped 
parsley, sage, pepper and salt. Baste 
them well with butter, and put them ina 
dripping pan. Roast or broil them, and 
serve them up with parsley and butter. 

Eets Bretled a VItahienne.—\f for an 
entrée, choose two moderate sized eels, — 
take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry 
them thoroughly ; toss them in an egg 
beaten up with pepper and salt, then fry 
them ofa good brown colour. Serve with 
a good Italian sauce under them. 

Esv Broth.—Boil some small eels in a 
small quantity of water, with some pars- 
ley, an onion, and some pepper-corns, 
salt according to taste ; let them boil for 
two hours. ' ; 

Erten Canapé.—Cutan eel into pieces 


EEL 


about two or three inches long, and take 
out the back-bone for use ; make a farce 
with some of the meat cut into small dice, 
with mushrooms and carp roes (if any) 
a little butter, chopped parsley, shalots. 
pepper and salt. Make likewise, a fine 
farce with some of the meat and bread- 
crumbs soaked in cream, parsley, mush- 
rooms chopped fine, pepper and salt, 
mixed with the yolks of two or three 
eggs; cut pieces of crumh of bread to the 
same length as the pieces of bone, and 
about two inches wide; laysome of the 
last farce upon each piece, then the back- 
bone and some of the forced-meat upon 
it: then some of the fine farce again, laid 
smoothly over with a knife dipped in 
eggs; strew it with crumbs and small 
bits of butter; bake it in a moderate 
oven or under a brazing-pan, cover, and 
serve with any sauce you may like best. 

Eets to Choose.—'The ‘Thames silver 
eel is generally esteemed the best, and 
the worst are brought by the Dutch and 
soldat Billingsgate; there is a greater 
difference in the goodness of eels than 
in any other fish. They should be dressed 
as fresh as possible, and are in season al} 
the year, excepting during the very hot 
summer months. 

Eres Collared.*-—Take an eel, and cut 
it open ; take out the bunes; cut off the 
head and tail; lay the eel flat, and shred 
gage as fine as possible; mix with black 
pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and 
salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up 
hard ina cloth; tie it up tight at each 
end; then set over the fire some water, 
with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, 
three or four blades of mace, a hay-leaf or 
two; boil these with the bones, head, and 
tail, well; then put in the eel, and boil it 
till it is tender; then take it out, and 
boil the liquor, and when it is cold, put 
it to the eel; do not take off the cloth 
till you use them. 

Eres, Entrée of. —Take some good 
sized eels, bone them, and cut them into 
pieces about a finger in length; pass 
them over a slow fire, in a small quantity 
of sweet herbs, shalots, pepper, salt, 
butter, and lemon-juice. When they are 
three parts done, put all on a dish; dip 
each piece in the liquor; bread crumb, 
and boil them over a clear fire. Serve 
with anchovy sauce. 

Ee.s, Entrée of. — Take two large 
eels, bone, and lay them flat; put some 
light forcemeat, well seasoned, upon 
each; roll them up separately; bind 
them round with tape; put them intoa 
stewpan, with a gill of Madeira, one 
clove, garlic, half a bay-leaf, four peeled 
sbalots, a little thyme, and a pint of veal- 
broth. Let them stew till done, then 


( 224 ) 





EEL 
3 fie 4 
strain the liquor; skim it free from fat 5 
season to the palate; thicken with flour 
and water ; reduce it to haif a pint: put 
the eels into a deep dish, glaze the tops, 
and serve them up with the sauce under, 
and pieces of fried bread round the dish. 
Eets, Forcemeat of.-~ Take two fine 
eels, boil them till they are nearly done 
enough, then put them into cold water: 


broil a perch ; when it is nearly done, lay 


it to cool ; take the meat from the bones 
of both fish, and mince it, and add to 
them the liver of a cod, minced also; 
then season them with pepper and salt; 
add sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, 
some small onions, minced, some scrape 
bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread 
crumbs, and a piece of butter; put the 
whole into a mortar, and beat it to a 
paste; it is used for fish-pies, and adds a 
fine relish to all made-dishes of fish. It 
may also be rolled up into balls, and fried 
or stewed. : 
Ert, @ la Four. * — Having skinned 
and cleaned an eel, cut off the head 5 
fasten the two ends together with a 
skewer, so as to form a hoop, and lay it 
in a baking dish; pnt a piece of butter 
into a saucepan, with carrots and onions, 
sliced, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme; do 
these up together, and then add white 
wine, pepper and salt; when they have 
boiled about half an hour, strain it 
through a fine sieve; take the eel, and 


put it in the oven; in three quarters of 


an hour take it out, and place it in your 
dish. Serve with Sauce Jtalienne. 
Eexs Fricasseed. —Skin three or four 
large eels, and notch them from end to 
end. Cut each of them into four or five 
pieces, and lay them for half an hour to 
crimp in spring water; dry them in a 
cloth, and put them ina pan, with a piece 
of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and 
a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on 
the fire, and shake them about for a few 
minutes; then ee in about a pint of 
white wine, and the same quantity of 
stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of 
mace. Stew all together, about half an 
hour; then add the yolks of four or five 
eggs, beat smooth, a little grated nutmeg, 
and some chopped parsley. Stir the 
whole well together, and let it simmer 
for a few minutes; then squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon; give the whole a good 
shake ; pour it into the dish, and serve 
it very hot. Garnish your dish with 
lemon. tt 
Eris as Chicken Fricassee.—Skin one 
or two eels, according to their size; cut 
them into pieces, and put them into a 
stewpan, with a bit of butter, some mush- 
rooms, a fagot of sweet herbs, and two 
cloves ; let the whole simmer some time, 





EEL " . 0826) EEL 


then add half a pint of white wine, some 
broth, pepper, and salt; boil on a brisk 
fire; reduce the sauce; take out the 
bundle of sweet herbs, and make a 
liaison with the yolks of two or three 
eggs, and cream ; and add the squeeze of 
a lemon when ready to serve. 
__EeEts Fried.—Cut one or two eels into 
pieces, take out the back bone, and score 
1t On both sides. Marinate it for about 
half an hour in vinegar, with parsley, 
sliced onions, shalots, and four cloves. 
Then drain it; baste it with ezggs and 
crumbs of bread, and fry it of a nice 
brown colour. Garnish with fried par- 
sley, and serve it with a good relishing 
salice. 

Eeis Fried.—If your eels are small, 
they should be curled round, and dipped 
into egg, and then nicely fried. If ofa 
good size, cut them into pieces ; season 
them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; 
flour them; fry them in butter. 

Eki, Gulantine of.*—Take the skin, 
with great care, from a large eel ; bone, 
and having laid it open, spread over it 
with a knife a guenelle farce of pike, on 
which place some truffles of tongue a 
Pécarlate, and gherkins, all cut in small 
pieces; lay a little more farce on them, 
and then roll it into its original form, 
and sew it up; wrap round it some slices 
of bacon, and then lay it in a napkin; 
fasten the two ends, and sew up the 
napkin, so that the fish may still retain 
its right form; then put it into a fish- 
kettle with a cooked marénade, and when 
it has simmered in them between thirty 
and forty minutes, let it stand to cool in 
its liquor? then drain, and cut the eel 
into eight pieces, seven of an equal 
length, and the eighth much longer than 
the rest. Puta layer of Montpellier but- 
ter into a dish; set the longest piece of 
eel in the middle, and the others round, 
and garnish the dish with pieces of jelly, 
and borders of coloured butter. 

Erts, to kill, znstantly.—Pierce the 
spinal marrow, close to the back part of 
the skull, with a sharp pointed skewer. 
If this is done in the right place, all mo- 
tion will instantly cease. 

Eex, Larded.*—Lard an eel along the 
back with small pieces of bacon; roll, 
and tie it up; put it into a pan, witha 
cooked marinade; when it has laid some 
time in that, cover it with bread crumbs, 
and bake it. 

Eris en Matelote. — Skin and wash 
some eels; cut them into three or four 

ieces; lay them between bards of fat 
Brcon and consommé, enough to cover 
them; to which, add a little carrot, 
onions, parsley, pepper-corns, salt, bay- 
leaf, and one clove of garlic; let them 


stew till well done, and let them stand 
in their liquor till nearly cold; then take 
them out, trim them, lay them on the 
dish; to which add a few rolls of very 
good veal. forcemeat, blanched, and pour 
over the wholea good béchamelle sauce, 
and a “éatson, gently mixed in. : 

Eeu, Gros Pdté of.*—TYake three fine 
large eels, open them, take out the 
bones, spread them out on the table, 
season, and lay over them, to the thick- 
ness of half an inch, a farce made in the 
same way as that for Gros Pdté of stur- 
geon, with the addition of a pound of 
truffles, cut in dice, and the same quan- 
tity of tunny, also cut into dice; draw 
the skius ever this, so as to give them 
their original form. Prepare your paté 
in the usual manner, and Jined with the 
farce ; take one of the eels, roll it round, 
not very close, and lay it in the péaté ; 
fill the centre of the eel with a little of 
the farce, and some whole trutiles ; cover. 
the surface with spices and salt; and 
then, in the same manner, lay on it the 
second, and on that the third eel. Cover 
the whole with a pound of good fresh 
butter and some slices of bacon ; finish 
the paété as usual, (See Gros Paté of Carp, 
Roes), and bake it four hours: when 
done, pour in some melted butter and 
sweet herbs. 

Eeus Pickled.—Take some eels, skin 
them, slit them down the belly, take 
out the bones, rub them all over with 
salt; let them lie three days, and turn 
them every day; then take them out of 
the brine, wash them in water, and wipe 
them dry with a cloth; season them with 
nutmeg, cloves, mace, and a bay-leaf: 
roll them ia a collar, and tie them tight 
inacloth; boil them in an equal quan- 
tity of white wine and vinegar: when 
they are tender, take them out of the 
liquor, and set them to cool: when they 
are cold, put them into the same liquor 
again: if there is not liquor enough, boil 


| some more vinegar, white wine, and 


spices : set them upon their ends while 
they are cooling, and they will keep their 
shape much better. 

Erni Pie.—Skin and clean the eels; 
cut them in pieces about two inches in 
length; pass them, with chopped parsley 
and shalots, a little grated nutmeg, pep- 
per, salt, and lemon juice, for five mie 
nutes; then put a little light forcemeat 
at the bottom of a deep dish, put the eels 
over it; cover it with puff paste; bake 
it, and put into it either béchamelle or 
cullis. 

Eeus Potted.—Rip open the eels, bone 
and cut them into pieces; wash, and well 
dry them; season them highly with pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg; put them intea 


aa ee 


EEL 


pour off all the gravy, pressing them 
hard, that none may remain; pour on 
clarified butter. 

‘Eets @ la Poulette.*—Cut your eels 
(when skinned), into small pteces, and 
put them into a saucepan, with salt, 
pepper, two bay-leaves, parsley, scal- 
lions, green onions, and a bottle of white 
wine. Set them on the fire till suffi- 
ciently done; then trim, and put the 
pieces into another saucepan. Then toss 
up about twenty small onions, add to 
them a little butter, flour, and the liquor 
in which the eels were done, and which 
must be strained, mushrooms, parsley, 
and scallions. When done, take out the 
onions, put them over the eels: skim, 
and reduce your sauce, and then, if too 
thin, thicken it with the yolks of three 
eggs: keep it onthe fire, being careful 
that it does not beil; strain it over your 
eels, and when ready to serve it, lay 
some fried bread in a dish, your eels on 
it, then the onions, &c. and garnish the 
whole with cray-fish. 

EExs, to preserve.—According to the 
number of your eels, boil a pint of wine, 
or more, with the proportion of a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a 
pound of salt, for a bottle of wine: let it 
cool, and then trim the eelsas for present 
use; fry them in oil, and a few bay- 
leaves to three parts: when it is nearly 
cold, put it in an earthen pot, pour the 
wine upon it, and the oil is used for 
frying with the bay-leaves; when it is 
quite cold, cover the pot with leather or 
strong paper, and tie it fast. It will 


- keep in a cool place for a great length 


of time. 

Een, Roasted.—Cut a Jarge eel into 
pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, 
and marinate it about two hours with 
oil and lemon-juice, pepper and salt, two 
cloves, two or three whole shalots, 
thyme, and laurel; then tie each bit to 
a skewer, wrap it up in paper, well 
buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the ma- 
rinate, and baste it with the liquor, 
adding to it a little melted butter: serve 
with whatever sauce you please. 

Eri, Roulade of.*—Your eels being 
properly skinned, take off the meat from 
head to tail, if possible, without break- 
ing; season them with salt and pepper. 
Make a farce with carp and anchovies; 
lay this along the eel, and roll them up, 
beginning with the tail; tie them up. 
When all are done, put them into a 
ready-dressed marinade, and stew them 
for half an hour; then drain, and dish 
them. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Eru Sauce.—Cut the eels into large 
pieces, and put them into a stewpan, 


( 226 ) 


. pot; lay on pieces of butter; bake them ; 


EEL 


with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, 
two] onions, with all sorts of roots, soa! 
it till it catches a little, then add a glass 
of white wine, and good broth, a little 
cullis, three or four tarragon leaves, 
chibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, 
and a bay-leaf. Simmer for an hour; 
skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve 
for use. Ee es 

Een Sausages.—Prepare the meat the 
same asin the receiptfor Hels en Canapé, 
with this difference, that it must be put 
into a different form; cut some bits of 
veal cow! into whatever length and 
breadth you please, put the pieces of 
back bone in the farce, and pat it into 
the pieces of cowl, roll them up, and tie 
them in the form of sausages; broil them 
slowly in a well-buttered paper, and 
when they are of a nice brown colour 
wipe off the fat with a clean cloth, an 
serve with what sauce you please. 

Eet aw Solez/.* —Cut your eels, when 
skinned, into pieces eight inches long, 
and cook them in a ready-dressed ma- 
rinade ; when done, lay them on a dish, 
cover them with marinade, and let them 
stand till cold; then having beaten and 
seasoned four eggs, dip the pieces (por 
into it, take care that all parts are wel 
covered; roll them in bread crumbs, and 
fry them. Drain, and lay them on a 
dish, snd serve with sauce piquante. 

Eres Spztchcocked.— Skin and cleanse 
your eel, slit open the belly, lay it flat, 
but do not bone it; cut.it into pieces 
about the length of a finger, rub it well 
with the yolk of an egg; strew over it 
fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
grated lemon-peel, chopped parsley ; 
rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and 
broil it, of a nice brown colour. Serve 
with anchovy sauce. Or you may do it 
whole, done with the above ingredients, 
turned round and skewered, then broiled, 
or roasted ina Dutch oven. | 

Ee Spitchcocked.— Let your eel be 
large, split it down the back, and joint 
the bone, but leave on the skin, cut it 
into three or four pieces, broil them on 
a gentle fire, baste them with butter, 
vinegar, and salt; when they are broiled, 
serve them with butter and juice of lemon, 

Eru Soup.—To every pound of eels put 
one quart of water, a crust of bread, two 
or three blades of mace, a little whole 
pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. Cover them close, and let them 
boil till half the liquor is wasted, and the 
fish is quite broken; then strain it off 
and toast some bread, cut it into dice, 
lay itin a dish, and pour the soup upon 
it. A quarter of a pint of rich cream 
with .a teaspoonful of flour, rubbed 
smooth in it, very greatly improves it. 











EGG ( 227.) EGG 


Erets Stewed. —Cut your eels into; 


pieces, pepper and salt them, put them 
into a small stewpan, with some good 
stock, an onion stuck with two or three 
cloves, a bit of lemon-peel, a glass of Ma- 
deira, stew these gently; when the eels 
are done enough, which will be in half an 
hour, or perhaps rather longer, take them 
out, and the onion, and the lemon-peel ; 
mix some flour with a little cream, boil 
this in the sauce ; add more wine if there 
is not sufficient, and cayenne} squeeze in 
some lemon-juice, put in the eels. 

ErEts Stewed a l’ Espagnole.—Stew the 
eels the same as en mutelote, and dish 
them the same, but pour over them a 
good satice @ l’ Espagnole ; it will be bet- 
ter for having either truffles or mush- 
rooms in it. 

Ee. a la Tartare.*—Skin and cut the 
eels into pieces, five or six inches long; 
make a sauce as directed for eel aw four ; 
but before adding the white wine and 
seasoning, put some flour; when this is 
strained on the eel, do them up together 
a short time; let them cool, and then roll 
each piece in bread-crumbs, dip them in 
eggs well beaten and seasoned; bread 
them a second time, and a quarter of an 
hour before serving, broil them over a 
slow fire. Pour a sauce @ la Tartare 
into a dish, and place the eels on it. 

Eeus @ la Tartare.* —Toss up some 
carrots and onions shred, and some sweet 
herbs bruised in a little butter; add a 
pinch of flour, white wine, nutmeg, pep- 
per, and salt; letit boil for halfan hour, 
then put it into an eel, skinned and cut 
in pieces; when this is sufEciently done, 
take them from the fire, ard let them 
cool; when quite cold, roll each piece in 
bread-crumbs, and dip them in beaten 
egg; bread them a second time, and broil 
them cver a gentle fire. : 

Eeas.—There are so many different 
ways of dressing eggs, that the recipes 
would almost fll a volume; we have, 
tlerefore, given such as we esteem the 
best, and, the most adapted to the Eng- 
lish taste. 

Eaes @ /’ Aliemande.*—Roll a little 
butter in flour, and put it into a stewpan, 
with salt, pepper, powdered ginger, and 
parsley ; add equal quantities of consommé 
and Rhenish wine ; let the whole boil for 
a quarter of an hour, then pour it over 
some poached eggs, and set it over hot 
ashes for a short time. 

Ecas with anchovies.— Take two or 
three French rolls, cut them into slices, 
(not too thin), and toastand butter them; 
over them cross shreds of anchovies, put 
them on a dish, and before you serve 
them, lay a poached egg on each toast. 

Eees and Anchovies in savoury Jelly.— 


Take ten good anchovies, clean them, and 
cut them into shreds, and Jay them on a 
plate; poach five eggs in vinegar and 
water, and as you poach them put them 
in cold water; then take a plain mould, 
and into the bottom of the mould puta 


little savoury jelly, and as soon as it is 


set, take the anchovies and neatly cross 


them on the jelly, trim your eggs very 


nicely, and with care Jay them on the 
anchovies, then gently pour in a little 
jelly nearly cold; when the eggs and an- 
chovies are well set, fill up the mould, 
and keep it in ice till it is wanted, then 
turn it out like any otherjelly. 

Eee for Balls.—Boil six eggs, take the 
yolks, pound them, and add a little flour 
and salt, and the yolks of two raw eggs. 


Mix all well together, and roJl into balls. 


They must be boiled before added to any 
made dish or soup. 

Eaes Beaten.*— Take fifteen eggs 
leaving the whites of five, strain them 
into a saucepan, and add tothem a quar- 
ter ofa pound of butter, (which should be 
cut in small pieces) a spoonful of velouté, 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Set these on 
the fire, and stir them witha stick till 
they are done, then place them on your 
dish, and lay fried bread round them. 

To this dish may be added the heads 
ofasparagus, young pease, cucumbers, &c. 
these must be placed round the eggs. 

Ham, cut into dice, is also dressed 
with them in this manner. 

Ecas (Beaten) in the Sheil.—Cut as 
many pieces of bread as you have eggs; 


take offthe crusts, and shape them round;. 


make a hole in the middle of each, big 
enough to contain an egg laid lengthwise 
init. Then take your eggs, break one 
end carefully, and take out the contents, 
which put into a stewpan, with a small 
piece of butter, two spoonsful of cream, 
shred parsley and scallions, salt and 
pepper. Keep it stirring over the fire 
until properly done; then, having washed 
and drained the shells, fill them with the 
cooked eggs ; lay them on the bread, and 
serve. 

Eeas dressed with Beet. — Pound a 
piece of red beet with some beaten cinna- 
mon, sugar, macaroons, and a slice of 
lemon; then take half a dozen eggs, 
leave out the’ whites, a little salt and 
milk; mix the whole well together, and 
strain them through a sieve; put it into 
adish, set it over the fire, and brown with 
a red hot shovel. 

EaG 7/o boil for a Saladl.—Boil two eggs 
for twelve minutes, and then put them 
into a basin of cold water for a few 
minutes, the yolks must be quite hard 
and cold, otherwise they wil] not properly 
incorporate with the other ingredients. 


re 


EGG 


Rub them through a sieve with a wooden 
spoon, and mix them with a tablespoon- 
ful of water, or fine double cream, then 
add two table speonsful of oil or melted 
Butter; when these are well mixed to- 
gether, by degrees add a teaspoonful of 
salt or powdered lump sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard; when these 


are smoothly united, add very gradually 


three teaspoonsful of vinegar, rub it with 
the other ingredients till thoroughly in- 
corporated with them; cut up the white 
ofthe egg, and garnish the top of the 
galad with it. Let the sauce remain at 
the bottom of the bow!, and do not stir 
up the salad till it is to be eaten, 

“Eces az Boutllon.*—Put the yolks of 
four and two whole eggs into a saucepan, 
with five ladlesful of consommé, iet them 
stand till we!] mixed, and then strain 
them; butter your moulds lightly, fill 
them with the preparation, and leave 
them to set. Serve with good consommé 
reduced. You may prepare this dish 
with any other sauce you please. 

Eees a la Bourgeoise.*—Spread some 
butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it 
entirely with thin slices of crumb of 
bread, on that Jay thin slices of Gruyere 
cheese, then eight or ten eggs, season 
them with salt, pepper and nutmeg, set 
the dish over a steve to cook gently till 
done. 

Eaes and Bread.*—Put half a handful 
of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a 
smal! quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, und let it stand till the bread has 
imbibed all the cream; then break ten 
eggs into it, and having beaten them up 
together. fry it like an omelet. 

ices Brotled.*—Make a small paper- 
ease, in which puta piece of butter, the 
size of a walnut, a little parsley and scal- 
lion, set the case ona gridiron, and when 
the butter begins to melt, break an egg 
into it, add salt, pepper, and bread- 
crumbs; do this over a gentle clear fire, 
and pass a salamander over it to colour 
it on the top. 

Eees Buttered. —Take yolks ‘and 
whites, set them over the fire with a bit 
of butter, a little pepper and salt, stir 
them a minute or two, when they grow 
thickish, and a little turned in small 
lumps, pour them on a butiered toast. 

Eees Buttered.—Beat together the 
yolks and whites of four or five eggs, put 
a quarter of a pound of butter into a 
basin, and then put that in boiling water, 
keep stirring it till it is melted ; then put 
the melted butter and the eggs into a 
saucepan; keep a basin in your hand, 
hold the saucepan in the other over a 
slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, 
as it begins to warm, pour it into a basin 


( 298 ) 


EGG 


and back, then again hold it over the fire, 
keeping it constantly stirring in the 
saucepan, and pouring it into the basin, 
more pertectly to mix the egg and butter, 
until they shall be hot without. boiling. 
Serve on toasted bread, or in a basin, to 
eat with salt fishor red herrings. 
Eas au Carumel.*—Take the yolks of 
a dozen hard eggs, bruise them ina sauce- 
pan, with some powder sugar, three al- 
mond biscuits, and half a glass of cream}; 
make these into a paste, of which form. 
little eggs, dip them in caramel sugar, 
and brown them. pies ty 
Eces zn Caul.—Cut bits of caul large 
enough to wrap a poached egg within it, 
with a little ready prepared farce of any 
kine, minced meat, stewed greens, or 
onions fried in butter, roll them up, dip 
them in yolks of eggs, and bake in the 
oven about a quarter of an hour in a 
baking dish: serve with any sauce you 
please. 4 
Eees and Cream.*—Boil half a pint of 
cream till reduced to half the quantity; 
then add eight eggs, season them with 
salt and pepper, boil them together, till 
the eggs are partly hard; pass a salaman- 
der over the top, and serve. 
Eces a la Créme.*—Put into a sauce- 
pan a little butter, a spoonful of fiour, 
rome shred parsley and scallions, salt, 
pepper and nutmeg, mix them together, 
add a glass of cream; when it has boiled 
up once, pour it upon a dozen hard eggs 
cut in slices, beat all up together, and 
serve. ' 
Eces Croquettes of.*—Cut the yolks and 
whites of a dozen and half of hard boiled 
eggs into dice,and put them into a sauce- 
pan, and pour on them a cream sauce, 
with the addition of a little shred parsley 
and scallions, stir them well together 
over the fire, and then set it to ccol; 
when cold pour a large teaspoonful on a 
plate, form it like other croqueites, ro!l 
them in bread-crumbs, dipthem in beaten 
eggs, bread them a second time, and fry 
them in a hot pan; drain, and serve 
them. . Lae ee 
Ecas @ la Duchesse.*—Boil a pint and 
a half of cream with some sugar, orange- 
flower, candied lemon-peel, marchpane, 
and burnt almonds, all chopped small or 
bruised; whip up the whites of eight 
eggs well, and then take two or three 
spoonsful of them at a time, and poach 
them in the cream; drain, and lay them 
on a dish, so as to resemble eggs poached 
without the yolks. When all the whites 
are thus used, put the cream on the fire, 
and reduce it, and as the dish is sent to 
table, add the yolks to the cream, and 
pour the sauce gently over the eggs. 
Eees @ ’' Fau.*—Pat a pint of water, 


si 





EGG 


a little sugar, orange-flower water, and 
green lemon-peel; let these boil for a 
quarter of an hour, and then set them to 
cool. Break seven eggs into another 
saucepan, and mix them with the water 
and other ingredients, and strain them 
into the table dish; set the dish into the 
bain marie until the water is evaporated, 
and the eggs are rather firm. 

Eaas en Filagramme,*—Take a pint of 
white wine, half a pound of fine powder 
sugar, and make it into aclear syrup with 
the white of an egg; beat up well eight 
eggs, and pour them through a cullen- 
der into the syrup; a very short time is 
sufficient to cook them. Serve either hot 
or cold. ‘ 

Eees Fricasseed.— Boil your eggs pretty 
hard, slice them, then take a little veal 
gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit 
of butter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped 
parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms. 
Soil this up, and pour it over the eggs. 
Put a hard yolk in the middle of the dish, 
with toasted sippets. 

Eees Fricasseed with Onions and Mush- 
yooms.—Boil your eggs hard, take the 
yolks out whole, cut the whites in slips, 
and some onien and mushrooms, fry the 
enion and mushrooms; throw in the 
whites, turn them about a little; if any 
fat, pour it off; flour the onion, &c.; add 
to it a little good gravy, boil this up, add 
pepper and salt, and the yolks. 

Eee Fritters.*—Pounda dozen hard boil- 
edeggs with a little cream, and a quarter 
of a pound of beef marrow; then pound 
haif a dozen macaroons, some bitter al- 
monds, a little sugar, and lemon-peel ; 
mix these with the pounded eggs, and 
form them into fritters, dip them into a 
batter made with flour, butter, salt, and 
lemon-peel; fry them in very hot lard, 
sprinkle sugar over, and serve. 

Eces Fried.*—Make three thin ome- 
lets, with three eggs in each, and season- 
ed with parsley, scallions, salt and pep- 
per; as you do them, Jay them out, and 
roll them up tight, cut each in half, dip 
every piece into beaten egg, then into 
bread crumbs; fry them, and serve with 
fried parsley. 

Ecas Freed in Balls.—Take a deep 
fryingpan, and three pints of clarified 
butter, heat it as hot as for fritters, stir 
it with a stick till it runs round very 

uickly ; then break an egg into the mid- 
Ale and turn it round with the stick till 
it is of the consistence of a pvached 
egg; the whirling of the butter will make 
it round like a bal! ; then take it up with 
aslice, and put it into a warm pipkin, or 
dish ; set it leaning before the fire to keep 
hot ; they will keep halfan hour, and yet 
be soft, so you can make as many as you 


(229) | 


EGG 


please ; you may serve them with fried 
or roasted collops. 

Eacs Frothed.—Beat up the yolks of 
eight eggs and the whites of four (set 
aside the remaining whites) with a spoon- 
ful of water, some salt, sugar, and the 
juice ofa lemon; fry this, and then put 
it ona dish; whip the four whites (which 
were set aside) to «froth with sugar, and 
place it over the fried eggs; bake itin a 
Dutch oven, or with a high cover fitted 
for the purpose. , 

Eaees und Gherkins.*—Take some 
pickled gherkins, aud having washed 
them in Several waters, mince them very 
small, toss them up in alittle butter, and 
then simmer them in a gravy or good 
stock. Pound the yolks of some hard 
boiled eggs with cream, salt and {pepper, 
mix them with the gherkins, and set the 
whole on the fire, and reduce it to the 
proper consistence. 

Eees (small) au Gras.* — Take two 
dozen eggs, and boi} them till they are 
firm, but not hard; take the yoiks and 
pound them to a paste, with a little flour 
and some fowl gravy ; dip your hands in 
flour, take a piece of the paste and roll 
it in the shape of an egg, but no bigger 
than a filbert ; when all your preparation 
is used, have ready some boiling water, 
in which is a little lemon-juice and salt, 
throw in the balls for a minute or two to 
harden, and use ham to garnish your 
dishes. 

Eeas aw Gratién.—Mix together some 
bread- crumbs, butter a chopped anchovy, 
parsley, scallions, and shalot, all shred 
small, andthe yolks of three eggs; put 
this on a dish that will bear the fire, set 
it over a gentieone till the graé7n adheres 
to it, then break eight eggs on it, season 
them with salt and pepper, keep it over 
the fire till sufficiently done; pass a 
salamander over, and serve. 

Eaes, Gratin of, with Cheese.*—Take 
some grated bread, Parmesan cheese, 
also grated, asmall piece of butter, the 
yolks of two eggs, nutmeg and pepper ; 
mix these together, and spread them 
over the bottom of a dish, set it over a 
gentle fire to make a gratin, on which 
break ten eggs; sprinkle Parmesan cheese 
over the surface, finish cooking it, and 
brown it with the salamander. 

Eees with Gravy. — Poach some eggs 
in water, with a little vinegar in it; cut 
the whites round neatly ; lay the eggs in 
a dish 5 pour into the dish some clear 
relishing gravy. 

Eeas Hashed.-Boil eggs hard, slice them, 
fry an onion, sliced, in butter ; put in the 
eggs, a little good gravy, chopped pars- 
ley, pepper and salt. Servethem hot. 

Eeasa e Impériale.—Take some breast 





EGG 


of fowl and partridges, parsley, and bread 
soaked in cream, and pound these toge- 
ther, season them with salt and pepper, 
add the yolks of four eggs; spread this 
mixture over the bottom of a dish, and 
break eight eggs on it; cover them with 
bread-crumbs, set the dish over hot 
ashes, and salamander the top. 

Eces d la Jardiniére.*—Cut four or five 
large onions into pieces, and put therm 
with some butter into a stewpan, set 
them on the fire, and when the onions 
are done, add a pisch of flour, a pint of 
milk, salt and pepper, boil this till 
thick, then take it from the fire, and 
put in ten eggs, beat them all up toge- 
ther, pour it into a dish for table, and 
finish the cooking over a stove. Pass a 
salamander over the top to colour it. 

Eces and Lettuce. — Scald some. cab- 
bage lettuce, and squeeze them well; then 
Slice them, and toss them up with butter; 
season them with salt, pepper, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs; then set them over 
a gentle fire in a saucepan, with butter, 
and let them stew for half an hour; then 
skim off the fat, and add to them a fish 
cullis ; thenlay them in dishes. Poach 
some eggs in butter, lay the eggs upon 
the lettuce, and serve them on plates. 

_Eces with Fat Livers.*—Fry a dozen 
pee of bread, (each large enough to 

old a poached egg) in lard, and Jay them 
onadish. Make a farce with fat livers, 
sweet herbs, salt and nutmeg, put some 
of this on the bread, and place on each a 
poached egg, cover the whole with the 
farce bread, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. Serve it over veal or fowl gravy. 

Eee Marmalade.*—Clarify a pound of 
sugar, keeping it rather thick; when 
cool, aid to it the yolks of twenty eggs, 
which should be perfectly free from the 
whites, and well stirred, but not beaten ; 
set these on the fire, stirring continually 
until it boils, and then continue to stir 
vntil sufficiently thick; if any scum 
should arise, itneed not be taken off, as 
the boiling and stirring will effectually 
remove it. Orange-flower water may be 
added, if approved. 

Eee Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs until 
they are hard, shred them small; shred 
double the quantity of suet; then add 
one pound of currants picked and washed, 
(if the eggs were large you must use 
more currants) the peel of one lemon 
shred very fine, and the juice, six spoons- 
ful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, 
a very small quantity of salt, orange, 
lemon,and citron candied. Make alight 
paste for them. 

Eees @ la Mode.— Take a handful of 
bread crumbs, and simmer them in goad 
fat broth, and when it is quite thick, and 


( 230 ) 


EGG 


no liquid remains, take it off the fire 3, 
chop a good slice of bacon, previously. 
boiled, to mix with it, and adda spoonful 
of & la mode beef sauce, not seasoned too 
highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten, 
up, andjthe whites of six ; alittle pounded 
coriander, pepper and salt, if the sauce. 
does not give it taste enough}; mix all 
together very well; garnish a deep stew-. 
pan all round with’ slices of bacen, put 
the preparation into it, and bake it in 
the oven ; when done, turnit over gently, 
take off the bacon, wipe the fat witha 
cloth, pour a brown glaze over, and let 
it cool before using. : 

Eaas a la Mode de Portugal.—Take, 
two large lemons, strain the. juice 
through a sieve into an earthen pipkin ; 
add to this, a tea-spoonful of basket- 
salt, and two ounces of very fine sugar 3 
set it over the fire, and when it boils, 
break into it four eggs; stir them 
with a silver spoon, till they will not 
stick to the saucepan, which isa sign that 
they are done enough; pour them into a 
soup plate, and shake over them a little 
very fine sugar 5 heat asalamander red- 
hot, and hold it over them, which will 
give them anice gloss. 

Eces a la Neige.*—Break ten eggs, 
and having separated the yolks and 
whites, whip the latter as for biscuits; 
then add two spoonsful of powder- sugar, 
anda littledried orange-flower in powder. 
Pour a quart of milk, six ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and a little orange-flower, 
into a saucepan, and when it boils put 
into it, a dessert-spoonful at atime, of 
the white of egg; poach the latter, and 
then set them on a sieve to drain. Then 
beat up the yolks, and mix them with 
half the inilk, put it on the fire, and stir 
it with a wooden-spoon till it begins to 
thicken ; then take it off, lay the poached 
eggs in a dish, and cover them with the 
yolks and milk. 


Eeas 7x Paste, fried.—Make choice of. 


the smallest eggs, poach them; when 
trimmed and cold, carefully dry them 
in a cloth; then prepare a paste, the 
same as for rissoles, into which lay the. 
eggs, cut them the same shape, fry them. 
in the same manner, and serve them 
very hot, on a napkin. 

Eccand Ham Patties.—From the mast 
solid part of a stale quartern loaf, cut a 


slice of breaG two inehes in thickness;. 


have in readiness a tin round cutter of 
two inches in diameter, cut out four or 
five pieces, then take a cutter, two sizes 
smaller, press it nearly through the 
larger pieces; then with a knife remove 
the bread from the circle; have rence a. 
large stewpan full of boiling lard; fry 
them of a light brown colour, , drain 





EGG ( 231 ) EGG 


them dry, with a clean cloth, and put 
them aside till wanted; then take halfa 


pound of lean ham, mince it small; add | 


to ita gill of good brown sauce; stir it 


over the fire for a few minutes, and add | 


a small quantity of Cayenne pepper and 


lemon-juice; fill the shapes with the | 


mixture, and lay a poached egg upon 
each. 


Eees @ la Pauvre Femme.*—Put a lit- 


tle butter into a dish, that will bear the 
fire, and heat it; break over it ten or 
twelve eggs, and set the dish on hot 
ashes; in the meanwhile cut some crumb 
of bread into dice, and throw into butter; 
give them a boil, drain, and strew them 
over the eggs, pass a salamander over, 
and serve with Hspaznole, reduced. 

Eees, Pickled.—Boil the eggs very 
hard; peel them, and put them into 
cold water, shifting them till they are 
cold. Make a pickle of white wine vine- 
gar, a blade of mace, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, and a little whole pepper 3 take 
the eggs out of the water, and put them 
immediately into the pickle, which 
should be hot; stir them a good while, 
that they may all look alike; untie the 
herbs and spread them over the top of 
the pot, but cover them with nothing 
else till they are turned brown. They 
will be fit to eat in nine or ten days. 

Eac Pie.—Having boiled twelve eggs 
hard, shred them with one pound of 
beef-suet, or marrow shred fine ; season 
them with a little cinnamon and nut- 
meg finely beaten, one pound of cur- 
rants, clean washed and picked, two or 
three spoonsful of cream, and a little 
sack and rose-water, mixed all together ; 
‘then fill the pie, and when it is baked 
stir in half a pound of fresh butter, an 
the juice of a lemon. 

Ece Pie—Boil a dozen eggs hard, 
mince the yolks very small with their 
weight in heef-suet; put to them some 
salt, beaten spice, !emon-peel, rose- 
“water, sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
dates, stoned and sliced, add a pound of 
currants; you may also add an apple 
shred small; mix all these together, fill 
your dish and bake it. Serve it to table 
with a little wine. 

Eces @ la Piemontaise.*—Puta couple 
of anchovies and a little gravy into a 
saucepan, and when they are dissolved, 


add the yolks of eight and the whites of | 


two eggs (well beaten), season them 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; beat 
them well whilst they’are doing. Serve 


them with fried bread, grate Parmesan ) 
cheese over, and brown it witha sala- | 


mander. 
Eees, Poached.—Have ready a sauce- 
“pan of boiling water, break in your eggs 





4 


carefully, and let them boil for three or 
four minutes ; then take them out with 
a slice, and serve them, either upon 
toast, spinach, or whatever you please. 

Eaes (Poached) with Aspic.*—Warm 
some aspic, and pour part of it into a 
mould; when congealed again, have 
ready some eggs poached, and garnished 
with truffles ; lay them on the jelly, and 
fill the mould with the remaining aspic, 
and finish it in the usual way. 

Eaas, Poached with Gravy.*—Fill a 
saucepan about three parts full of water, 
to which add a little salt and vinegar ; 
as soon as it boils, setit by the side of 
the fire, and carefully break four eggs 
into it; be careful not to injure the yolks. 
When done, take them out with an egg- 
spoon, and if they should chance to be 
rather hard, throw them into cold water, 
drain them on a cloth, pepper thema 
little, and serve them with gravy. 
Twelve or fifteen eggs are sufficient for 
a dish; the water should be kept boiling 
whilst they are doing. 

Eaes (Poached) Potage of.*—Having 

oached as many eggs as you wish to 
ave, trim and place them in a soup- 


_ tureen, and pour on them some good 


stock or broth. Ten minutes before you 
serve it, add a small quantity of coarse 
pepper. 

Eaes @ la Provencale.*—Put a glass of 
oil into a frying-pan over a gentle fire, 
and when quite hot, pour into it an egg, 
with salt and pepper; when the white 
begins to bubble, press it down with a 
spoon, turn it, that both sides may be 
equally done; then take it out and set it 
on a hair sieve to drain; do twelve eggs 
in this manner, dish them with fried 
bread glazed between each. Reduce 
some sauce espagnole, in which put the 
juice of half a lemon, and pour it over 
them. 

Kees, Puffed or Raised. —Carefully 
separate the whites and yolks of eight 
eggs without breaking the yolks; froth 
up the whites; cover one of the yolks 
carefully, with a spoonful of the froth, 
and so continue, till all the yolks are 
covered ; then slide them gently off into 
a hot friture, one after another. Serve 
witha cullis sauce, made tolerably relish- 
ing or sharp with lemon-juice. 

Eea Punch.* — Take a punch-glass, 
and put into it a wine-glass of syrup of 
punch (see that article), and the yolk 
of an egg; beat them together with a 
spoon, and then fill up the glass with 
boiling water, stirring a little as you 
pour itin. : 

Eacs, a Salmi of.—Boil six bruised 
shalots ina glass of white wine for about 
81x eile a this liquid with pounds 





SS es ee 


EGG 


ed roasted livers of hares, rabbits, or 
any other kind of game, to give it the 
taste; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten 
up with a little gravy, and aspoonful or 
two of well seasoned cullis; strain it, 
and bake it aw bain-marie. 

Ease Sandwiches.* — Boil some eggs 

hard, leave them to get quite cold; then 
cut them, slortwise, into slices of a mo- 
derate thickness, and put them between 
slices of roll cut thin, and buttered ; 
according to taste, you may season them 
with pepper and salt. 
_ Eae Sauce.—Boil three eggs hard, cut 
them in small squares, and mix them in 
good butter sauce, make it very hot, 
and squeeze in some Jemon-juice before 
you serve it. 

Eees with Sadsages.—Fry some sau- 
sages, and after them a slice of bread; 
lay the sausage on it, with a poached 
egg between each link 3 if the toast is too 
strong fried, butter it a little. 

Eees, Scotch.—Take five pullets eggs, 
and boil them bard, and without remov- 
ing the whites, cover completely with a 
fine relishing forcemeat, in which let 
scraped ham, or chopped anchovy, bear 
a due proportion. Fry them of a fine 
yellow brown, and serve with a good 
gravy in the dish. 

Eaas 2x Slices.*—Take the yolks of a 

dozen:hard boiled eggs, and put them 
ona dish with salt, pepper, and basil in 
powder ; cut the whites, and five or six 
onions, into slices, put them into asauce- 
pan with halfa glass of boiling oil; when 
about two-thirds done, add a glass of 
gravy and half a glass of white wine; 
simmer this for half an hour, and pour 
it into your dish over the yolks, and lay 
the sliced whites on the top. 
- Eees with Spinach.—Scald a handful 
of spinach in boiling water, and drain it 
fit, to be pounded in a mortar; when 
well pounded, pour in a pint of cream to 
make the cream of a fine pea-green; add 
a little salt, the yolks of six or eight 
eggs, preserved, macaroni-drops, and 
rasped lemon-peel; strain and press it, 
then pour it intoadish; keep it some 
time over a moderate fire to catch a lit- 
tle at the bottom without burning. Glaze 
it with sugar-powder, and colour it with 
a hot shovel. 

Eaes, Stuffed.*—Take ten or a dozen 
‘hard eggs, and cut each in half, length- 
wise; take out all the yolks, pound and 
rub them through a guenelle sieve } soak 
some crumb of bread in milk, and when 
quite soft, press out all the milk, pound 
and pass that also through a guenelle 
sieve ; do the same with some good fresh 
butter; then take equal quantities of 
each, imix them together well in the 


( 202 ) 


EGG 


mortar, with the addition of parsley and 
scallions, shred fine; season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, and bind the farce 
with the yolks of raw eggs; when quite 
done, puta layer, about an inch thick, 
ona dish, then put some in each half 
egg, and cement them together with 
white of egg, place them in proper order 
on the farce, and set the dish on hot 


ashes, and cover it with hot ashes also 


to colour it. 
Eaes en Surprise.* — Take a dozen 
eggs, and make a small hole at each end 


of every egg, through which pass a straw — 


and break the yolk; then blow out the 
yolk carefully. Wash the shells, and 
having drained, dry them in the open 
air; mix the yolk of an egg with a little 


flour to close one of the holes of the shells, . 


and when dry, fill half the number by 
means of a small funnel, with checolate 
cream, and the remaining six with cof- 
fee or orange-cream; close the other 
end of your eggs, and put them intoa 
saucepan of hot water ; set them on the 
fire, taking care they do not boil; when 
done, remove the cement from the ends; 
dry, and serve them on a folded napkin. 

Eees en Surtout.*—Put some parsley, 
scallions, shalots, and. mushrooms, all 
shred small, into a stewpan with a bit of 
butter, and a pinch of flour; having 
given them a few turns over the fire, add 
a pint of milk, salt and pepper, let these 
boil till thick,and then put in seven hard 
eggs, each cut in four, and give them one 
boil before you dish them; cover the 


eggs entirely with the sauce; butter the - 


top, strew bread-crumbs over, butter it 
again, and colour it with a salamander. 

Eace Tart.—Chop up some sweet herbs, 
and mix them with a good bit of butter, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; put it into 
the bottom of seme paste, with some 
good butter, what quantity of hard eggs 
you choose cut into quarters, and some 
raw ones beat up as for an omelet; finish 
the pie as usual; you may add caper 
sauce when ready, or acream sauce. 

Eae Toast.*—Put a glass of thick 
cream, some sugar, two or three maca- 
roons pounced, with afew almonds, alittle 
grated lemon, give them a boil; then add 
the yolks of eight and whites of three 
eggs, beat the whole up over a slow fire; 


and lay on very thin slices of fried bread; 


sprinkle sugar over, and serve. 

Eees @ la Tripe.*—Cut a dozen hard 
eggs into slices, and put them into a 
saucepan, take. the same number of 
onions, slice them also, and do them up 
with some butter in another saucepan 3 
then add a spoonful of flour, two glasses 
of cream, salt, and pepper; simmer them, 
and when pretty thick, pour it on the 





ELD 


eggs, then do them all up together, and | 


Serve them very hot. . 


_Eses @ la Tripe au Roux.*—Take a 
little butter, and a spoonful of flour,’ 
colour it over the fire, and add a handful 


of small onions cut inte dice, a little more 


butter, and a small quantity of stock : set 


them on the fire; when the onions are 
sufficiently done, put in some hard boiled 
eggs sliced, boil the whole up once, put 
in a few drops of vinegar, salt and pep- 
per, and serve them. 

Another way.* — Put some sliced 
Onioas, and a little butter into a sauce- 
pan, set it overa gentle fire for a short 
time; then add some mazgre cullis, or 
roux, made as above; a glass of white 
wine, a little water, salt and pepper. 

hen this is tolerably thick, take a well 
dried omelet, cut it in pieces, and put it 
to the onions; make it quite hot, taking 
eare that it does not boil, and when ready 
for table, put mustard to it, and serve. 

Eaes with Verjuice.—Well beat up 
some eggs with a little verjuice, then put 
to them salt and nutmeg ; put them over 
the fire with a little butter, and when 
they are about as thick as cream, serve 
them. 

Eces, Whites of (to make a dish of).— 
Take the whites of twelve egys, beat 
them up with four spoonsful of rose- 
water, some lemon-peel grated, and a 
little nutmeg ; sweeten them with sugar, 
mix them well, and boil them in four 
bladders; tie them in the shape of an 
egg, and boil them hard; they will take 
half an hour; lay them in a dish; when 
cold, mix half a pint of thick cream, a 
gill of mountain, and the juice of half an 
orange all together; sweeten it with fine 
sugar, and serve it over the eggs. f 

Kee Vine.—Beat up an egg, mix with 
it a spoonful of cold water; set on the 
fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of 
water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it 
boils, pour a little of it to the egg by de- 
grees, till the whole is in, stirring it well ; 
then return the whole into the saucepan, 
set it over a gentle fire, stir it one way for 
a minute, not longer; for if it boil, or the 
egg is stale, it will curdle; serve with 
toast. ; 

You may make it as above, without 
warming the egg, and it will be lighter on 
the stoniach, though not so agreeable to 
the palate. 

ELDER Flower Fritters.—They are 
made whilst the elder flowers are in 
bloom; and they should marinate three 
or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange- 
flower water, and lemon-peel; when 
drained, dip them in a good thick batter 
to fry, and serve with rasped sugar, as in 
general. 


( 233 ) 


ELD 


Exper Buds Pickled.—The elder buds 
should be gathered when they are about 
the size of hop-buds; put them into a 
strong brine of salt and water for nine 
days; and stir them two or three times a 
day. Put them into a pan, cover them 
with vine leaves, and pour over them the 
water they came out of. Set them over 
a slow fire till they become quite green, 
and then make a pickle for them of aijle- 
gar (made of scur ale), a little mace, a 
few shalots, and some ginger sliced; boil 
this two or three minutes, and pour 
it upon the buds; then tie them 
down, and keep them in a very dry place. 

Exper Shoots Pickled.—Gather the 
elder shoots when of the thickness of a 
tobacco-pipe, and put them into salt and 
water all night; then put them in 
layers into stone jars, and between every 
layer strew a little mustard seed, scraped 
horse-radish, a few shalots, a little white 
beet root, and a cauliflower pulled into 
small pieces ; pour boiling allegar (made 
of sour ale), upon it, and scald it three 
times; keep it in a dry place, with a 
leather tied over it. 

Exvper Vinegar.— Put dried elder 
flowers into stone or double giass bottles, 
fill them up with goed wine vinegar, and 
set them in the sun, or by the fire, till 
their virtue is extracted. 

Exper Vinegar.*—Choose the elder- 
flowers when just blown, take away all 
the stalks, and when the flowers are 
about half dry, put them into a jar, and 
fill the jar with vinegar, close it tight, 
and let it stand in the sun for twenty 
days ; then draw it off, press the flowers, 
and having filtered the whole, bottle it; 
take care to keep the bottles closely 
corked. 

Evper Vinegar.—The elder-flowers 
should be gathered before they are too 
much blown ; pick them clean trom the 
great stalks, and dry them in the sun, 
when itis not too hot; put a handful of 
them to a quartof the best white wine 
vinegar, and let it stand twelve or four- 
teen days ; then strain it, and draw it off, 
and put it into the vessel, but keep back 
a quart, and make it very hot; put it 
into the vessel to make it ferment; then 
stop it close for use, and draw it off when 
it is wanted. 

Exper /Vine.*—Pour a gallon of boil- 
ing water on every gallon ofelder-berries, 
let it stand twelve hours; then draw it 
off, and boil it up with three pounds and 
a half of sugar ;. when boiling, beat up 
some whites of eggs and clarify it: skim 
it clear, then add half an ounce cf pound- 
ed ginger, to every gallon of the wine; 
boil it a little longer, before you put it in 
the tub; when cool, put in a toast rubbed 





EMP 


in yeast; let it ferment a day or two, 
after which, put it into 4 barrel, previ- 
ously rinced with brandy. 

‘All wines should be milkwarm when 
the yeast is added to it. 

Exper Wine.*—To three pounds of 
elderberries, put one pound of damsons, 


and to a nine-gallon cask put a pint of | 


sloes. 

Boil two gallons of water with an 
ounce of hops, for an hour and a half; 
then putin sugar, in the proportion of four 
pounds to five quarts of water; keep 
skimming as it rises, and then set it to 
cool ; boil the fruit for half-an hour, strain 
the juice, and put a quart of it to every 
gallon of water; then let it work with 
yeast three days; put it into the barrel, 
and stop it close. 

The quantity of spice to be regulated 
by the taste; as may the sugar also. 
When the wine has stood four or six 
weeks, add to the above four pounds of 
stoned raisins. 

Exvver Flower Wine.—Put ten pounds 
of loaf sugar to four gallons of water, boil 
it till a sixth part is wasted away; while 
it is boiling, skim it well; then set it by 
till it isas cool as wort, then put in a 
spoonful or two of yeast, and as soon as 
it begins to work, put in about a pint and 
ahalf of blossoms of elder, picked from 
the stalks, stir it daily until it has done 
working, which will be in about a week: 
then put it up in a cask, stop it close, let 
it stand two or three months, and if it is 
clear, bottle it off. aan 

ELFXIR de Garrus.* — Take two 
ounces and a half of aloes, half an ounce 
of myrrh, two drachms of saffron, of cin- 
namon, cloves and nutmeg, twenty-four 
grains each; bruise all these articles, 
put them into a matrass, and pour over 
them 4 quart of highly rectified spirits of 
wine, in which has been previously mixed 
three ounces of filtered river water ; close 
the matrass hermetically, and let it 
stand in the sun or on hot ashes for 
twenty-four hours, shaking it frequently. 
The above substances being thoroughly 
dissolved, put them into a glass alembic, 
and distil them by means of a sand bath 3 
from the above quantities you will obtain 
@ quart of aromatic spirit, to which add 
an equal weight of syrup of capillaire, 
and a sufficient portion of orange-flower 
water, to give an agreeable perfume; 
then Jet it stand a fortnight in a wel! 
closed vessel; at the end of that time 
draw it off, and bottle it; seal the corks 
carefully. , 

EMPOTAGE.* — Put into a large 
saucepan, three or four pounds of beef- 
steaks, a knuckle of veal, and four 
ld hens; 


( 234 ) 





moisten this quantity .of 


END 


meat with two ladlesful of broth; set 
it on a stove, and let it boil till 


properly reduced, taking care that 


none of the meat burns, which would 
make the empotage of too high a colour; — 
fill up your saucepan with broth, adding 
carrots, turnips, and onions; let all 


these ingredients stand over the fire for 
three hours and a half; then strain the 
whole through a silk sieve, that it may be 
perfectly clear. : pee 
ENDIVE au Jus.*—Blanch and drain 
some endive, split them in half, season 
each with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; then 
tie the halves together, and put them 
into a stewpan, on some slices of bacon, | 
cover them in the same way, put in also 
veal, mutton, or beef sliced, two onions, 
two cloves, two carrots, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs, moisten the whole with the 
skimmings of consommé ; stew-the endive 
thus, for three hours, then drain and 
press them in a cloth; trim and dish them 


up for table. 


Enpive, Potage of.*—Cut four or five 
heads of endive into very small pieces, 
and do them up in a small quantity of 
butter, do not let them ’brown; moisten 
it with water, and let it boil for three 
quarters of an hour, season the potage 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, thicken 
it with the yolks of three eggs, and pour 
it, as usual,on bread, and serve it. 

Enpive, Purée of.*—Blanch and cut 
your endive into small pieces, and do 
them up in a little butter, with pepper. 
a ladleful of velouté, a little cream, an 
only just sufficient sugar to take off the 
sharpness ; stir it till pretty thick, then 
strain, and set it by for use. 

Enpive in a Purée.—Pick and. well 
wash in several waters a dozen heads of 
endive; then having a large stewpan of 
water boiling on the fire, put in the en- 
dive, with a handful of salt; skim it well, 
and let it boil till done; then let it drain 
for two or three minutes on a hair sieve, 
and with a wooden spoon, rub it through 
the same sieve into a dish; put it intoa 
corner of the sieve again, for an hour or 
longer, to drain the water from it, then 
stir it on the fire in a stewpan, with a 
piece of butter; as soon as it is melted 
add three or four table-spoonsful of good 
consommé, and continue stirring it on 
the fire, till it boils to its former thick- 
ness; when so, mix in three spoonsful 
of béchamelle sauce; boil it for a mi- 
nute; take it off the fire, and stir in 
the yolk of one egg, with a little cream, 
and salt, with a very little sugar, if 
required. : 

ENDIVE, Ragodt of.*—Blanch and boil 
some endive in stock, then add to it a 


little veal blond, an onion stuck with 








END ( 235 ) ESP 


cloves, and the juice of a lemon. Serve 
it very hot. 

Enpive, Ragodé of.—Take_ three or 
four heads of the whitest endive; put 
them in salt and water for two or three 
hours; cut off the green heads from a 
hundred of asparagus, and chop the rest 
small, as far as they are tender; lay them 
also in salt and water; take three or 
four heads of celery, washed and scraped 
clean, and cut in pieces two or three 
inches long ; put them into a saucepan, 
with three or four blades of mace, and 
some whole pepper tied in arag, witha 
pint of water; stew it till it is quite 
tender, then put in the asparagus, shake 
the saucepan, and let it simmer till the 
asparagus is done; take the endive out 
of the'water, drain it wel! ; leave one head 
whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf; 
put them.into a stewpan with a pint of 
white wine; cover the pan very close, 
and let it boil till it is sufficiently done, 
then put in a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, rolled in flour; cover it closely, but 
shake the pan; then.take up the endive; 
put the whole head in the centre of a 
dish ; arrange the celery and asparagus 
round it with a spoon, and the leaves of 
the endive over that, and keep it hot; 
pour the liquor into the stewpan, stir it 
all together; have ready the yolks of a 
couple of eggs, beat up with some cream ; 
put in a littie salt, some grated nutmeg ; 
mix this well with the sauce; keep it 
stirring one way till it is thick; pour it 
over the endive, and send it to table. 

ENDIVE Soup.—This is a clear soup, 
made in the same manner as lettuce 
soup. Be careful to wash the endive 
well, and pick out the bitter parts. 

Enpive Stewed.—Take a dozen heads 
of the very best endive; pick off what 
you think bitter; wash it well, and 
blanch it whole in plenty of water, with 
a good handful of salt; when done, lay 
them on a sieve to drain, and tie each 
separate with packthread, and Jay them 
between lards of fat bacon, and stew them 
gently in good strong consommé ; take 
them out of the consommé, and lay them 
in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the 
packthread, and roll the endive tight 
up in the cloth for a minute or two, then 
open the cloth, and cut the endive in 
pieces, about six inches in length; lay 
them on a dish; have ready a sauce d@ 
Uv Espagnole, with a bit of butter mixed 
in it, and a squeeze of lemon; when this 
sauce is very hot, pour it over the en- 
dive, and serve it to table. 

Enpive au Velouté.*—Take off all the 
outer leaves of your endive, and having 
opened the hearts, put them into cold 
water to wash them. In the mean while 


heat a kettle of water, put in it a handful 
of salt, then throw in the endive; keep 
it constantly under the water, to prevent 
their turning black. As soon as the 
endive is tender, drain, and then put 
it into cold water, and when quite cold, 
drain it again; press the water out with 
your hands; then chop it small, and put 


it into a saucepan, with some butter, salt, - 


and pepper, stir it well, and then add 
five spoonsful of velouté, the same of 
consommé ; reduce it till pretty thick, 
and then put it.in a dish, with fried 
bread round it. Endive may also be 
dressed with cream, in which case, put 
two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten 
it with cream. 

Enrree.* — There is no word pre- 
cisely equivalent to this in English. 
Any dish of butcher’s meat, -fowl, game, 
or fish; dressed for the first course, is 
called an entrée. 

ENTREMET.* — There is no word 
equivalent to this in English. All dishes 
of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, 
prawns, lobsters, and, in general, every 
thing that appears in the second course, 
except the roast, 1s called an entremeft. 

ESPAGNOLE. — Take an old fowl, 
and about fourteen pounds of leg or 
shoulder of veal; chop the latter into 
pieces, and put it, with very little water, 
into a large saucepan, with two carrots, 
three onions, a pound of ham, a few 
peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, 
and a clove of garlic; let this stew over 
a moderate fire, shaking it frequently, 
till it becomes of a brown colour, when 
you may add to it a sufficient quantity 
of hot water, to come about four inches 
above the meat. Set it by the side of 
the stove to boil gently, skimming when 
necessary, till the meat comes from the 
bones; then strain it through a siik 
sieve, and set it by for use. 

EspaGnoLe (Grande).* —'Take two 
notw of veal, a pheasant, or four par- 
tridges, half a nocw of ham, four or five 
large carrots, five onions (one of them 
stuck with five cloves); put all these 
into a saucepan, and pour over thema 
bottle of Madeira wine, and a ladleful 
of jelly: set it over a large fire, to re- 
duce it, then place it on a slow fire, until 
slightly coloured; take it off, and let it 
stand about ten minutes. Prepare some 
sous-noix as directed for Grande Sauce, 
and addjthe liquor to the Espagnole ; 
skim it well, and put in some roux, two 
or three bay-leaves, a little thyme, mush- 
rooms, parsley, scallions, ar.d shalots. 

As soon as the sauce boils, set the 
saucepan by the side of a stove, to let 
it do more gently, for two or three hours, 
Be very careful that your saucepan be 














PAR 


perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise 
the Lspagnole will be thick and muddy. 

Kspaenote Travuilliée.* — Take five 
ladlesful of Espagnole, three of consommé, 
and a handful of mushrooms; if the sauce 
be not sufficiently coloured, you may 
add some veal blond; boil these over a 
brisk fire; skim and take off all the fat. 
When it is well reduced, strain it, and 
keep it hot in the bain-marie. This 
sauce should be of the consistence of 
clear broth. Half a bottle of white wine 
may be added to this. 

ESSENCE. * — Take half a bottle of 
white wine, half a glass of the best vine- 
gar, the juice of two lemons, three ounces 
of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a 
little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, 
four bay-leaves, thyme, parsley, one 
small clove of garlic, ten shalots, 
pounded, and an ounce of dry mush- 
rooms}; put all these ingredients into an 
earthen pan, over a brisk fire; when 
near boiling, lessen the fire, and let it 
stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours ; 
then strain it through a coarse sieve, 
and afterwards filter it. Keep it in 
closely corked bottles: a small quantity 
is sufficient to flavour a dish. 


F 

FANCHONETTES.* — Put into a 
saucepan, two ounces of flour, three of 
sugar, one of butter, two of pounded al- 
monds, some green lemon-peel, two 
yolks, and one whole egg, a little salt, 
and halfa pint of milk ; put these in- 
gredients on the fire, and Jet them set 
like a cream; line some tartlet-tins, or 
moulds, with puff paste, fill them with 
the preparation ; place the moulds ona 
tin, and bake the fanchonettes in a brisk 
oven; when about three parts done, 
take them out, put frothed eggs on, 
sprinkle sugar over, and replace them 
in the oven to finish the baking. 

FARCE, @ la Créme.—Make use of 
the panada and udder (see Panada for 
farces), butno herbs are required in the 
panada, instead of which, put a little 
cream. Take the white flesh of a fowl 
that has been roasted ; take off the skin 
and sinews, chop the meat very fine; 
then pound it as you do for other farces. 
Put in the yolks of four eggs, atter the 
farce has been pounded and well sea- 
soned. Beat the whites of the eggs, 
and mix them gently with the rest, stir- 
ring the whole with a wooden-spoon. 
Use this farce when requisite; it is ge- 
nerally used for Fowl a la Créme; if 
you have in the larder a cold reast fowl, 
you may make that entrée with it; 
empty the fowl, by cutting a square 
hole in the breast, the white flesh you 


( 236 ) 


FAR 


make the farce with, and then replace it 
in the cavity, and proceed as directed in 
the receipt for Fowl d laCréme. 

Farce, Cuite.*—Cut some undressed 
breast of fow! into dice, and put them 
into a stewpan with a small piece of but- 
ter, alittle salt, pepper, and nutmeg; 
do them up over the fire for ten minutes, 
then take out the meat, drain, and let 
it cool; put a piece of bread into the 
same stewpan, with some broth and a 
little shred parsley 5 stir it witha wooden 
spoon, and beat it up over the fire till 
the bread is of the consistence of panada, 
and the broth reduced, when it must be 
set to cool; then pound the fowl well, 
and pass it through a guwenelle sieve; do 
the same with the bread, and after that 
a ready-dressed calf’s udder, keeping 
all separate ; then take equal portions 
of these three ingredients, and pound 
them together for three quarters of an 
hour; at the end of that time, add the 
yolks of five or six eggs, according to 
the quantity of your farce, still pound- 
ing until the whole be well mixed toge- 
ther; then take it from the mortar and 
set it aside in a pan for use. 

Farce @ Gratin of Partridges, Rab- 
bits, and Fowls.—The Farce a Gratin 
is made in the same manner as the Farce 
a la Créme, with the only difference, 
that you must not beat the whites of the 
eggs, and that this farce is to be kept 
delicate and soft. Use the flesh of roast- 
ed chickens, or ycung rabbits, or young 
partridges. ‘This farce is intended for 
the stuffing of such articles as are not to — 
be put on the fire again; such as calf’s — 
ears, calf’s feet, larks aw gratin, &c. 

Farce, Omelet of.*—Take any meat, 
game, or fowl farce you please; pour on 
it a dozen eggs well beaten. and fry your 
omelet, taking care to keep it of an 
equal thickness all over. 

Farce d Quénelles.*—Put the crumb 
ofa French loaf into a saucepan, with 
two table-spoonsful of fowl consommé, one 
of velouté, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and 
two of mushrooms (both shred fine) ; set 
it on a moderate fire till it boils; stir it 
constantly, and when it forms a smooth, 
softish paste, add the yolks of two eggs; 
then put it on a plate, and cover it with 
a piece of buttered paper. Take the 
fillets from two fat chickens, and having — 
removed the skin, pound and rub them 
through a sieve; proceed in the same 
way with twoready-dressed calf’s udders 
and the panada or bread. ‘When you 
have proceeded so far, weigh six ounces 
of panuda, ten of the chicken, and eight 
of the udder, pound the two fermer to- 
gether for a quarter of an hour; then 
add the panada, and having pounded 








FEN ( 237 ) FIG 


fifteen or twenty minutes longer, put 
five drachms of spiced salt, grated nut- 
meg, and the yolks of twoeggs,at first, and 
in five minutes, two more yolks, atable- 
spoonful of velowté, pounding continu- 
ally, at least five minutes after all the 
ingredients are putin. Take a small 
piece of this farce, and form it intoa ball 
or guenelle, and throw it into some 
broth; when it has boiled a minute, 
take it out, and if it be tolerably firm 
and smovth, it is properly done; but if 
too firm, add more velouté; if not suffi- 
ciently so, the yolk of another egg. 

FAUN.—Faun should be dressed al- 
most as soonas itis killed. When very 
young they should be trussed, stuffed, 
and spitted in the same manner as a 
hare. But they are better eating, when 
of the size of house-lamb, and are 
then roasted in quarters; the hind 
quarter is considered the best. They 
must be done bya very quick fire, and 
either basted all the time they are roast- 
ing, or be covered with slices of fat 
bacon; when done, baste it with butter, 
and dredge it with a little sait and flour, 
till you get a nice froth upon it. 

FAUBONNE.*—This soup is com- 
posed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, 
celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all 
cut in dice, except the lettuce and sor- 
rel, which must be bruised ; do up the 
roots in a little butter; then put in the 
lettuce, herbs, and chervii, moisten 
them with broth, and let it boil overa 
gentle fire for an hour or more, if neces- 
sary; then soak your bread in the usual 
way, and pour the faubonne over it. 

Faun, Saddle of.—Well lard it, and 
put it into a very large vessel with salt, 
pepper, and onions cut into slices, par- 
sley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to 
pickle for two or three days, taking 
great care to turn it frequently on every 
side; then roast it, and serve with a 
poivrade under it. Mind that the fillets 
and both legs must be larded. 

FENNEL (Pickled). — Take some 
spring water, and when it boils put in 
the fennel tied in bunches, with some 
salt; do not let it boil, but when it is of 
a fine green, dry it on a cloth; when it 
is cold, put it in a glass, with some nut- 
megand mace, fill it with cold vinegar, 
and put a bit of green fennel at the top; 
cover it the same as all other pickles, 
with a bladder and leather. pe 

FenneL Sauce.—Boil a bunch of fen- 
nel and parsley; chop it small, and stir 
it into melted butter. 

Fennet Sauce.— Slice four or five 
onions, and soak them in two spoonstul 
of oil, two of cullis, and two of white 
wine, with two cloves of garlick; sim- 


mer it for an hour, skim off the fat, and — 


sift the sauce ina sieve; then add chup- 
ped parsley and fennel, coarse pepper 
and salt; boil a moment before using it. 

FenneL Sauce.—Pick green fennel}, 
mint, and parsley, a little of each; wash 
them clean, and boil them till tender, 
drain and press them, chop them fine, 
add melted butter, and serve up the 
sauce immediately, for if the herbs are 
mixed any length of time before it is 
served up to table they will be disco- 
loured. Parsley becomes equally dis- 
coloured from the same cause. 

If approved, there may be added the 
pulp of green gooseberries rubbed 
through a hair sieve, and a little sifted 
sugar. 

FENNEL Sauce.* — Take as many 
branches of green fennel as you may re- 
quire; pick. and wash it in the same 
manner as parsley, chop it very small, 
scald, and then lay iton a sieve to cool. 
Put two spoonsful of velowté, and the 
same of butter sauce, into a saucepan 5 
make them quite hot, take care to str 
it well, that they may be properly mixed; 
rub the fennel in a little butter, ana 
then throw it into the sauce; mix it in 
thoroughly, and season it with salt, pep- 
per, and nutmeg. 

Fennew (Cooling Water of).— This 
is done simply, by steeping some fennel 
in hot water, till it has the taste of the 
herb sufficiently; add what sugar you 
think proper, and keep it ina cool place 
a good while before using; the same is 
done with any other kind of herb, and 
in general with all sorts of fruit used in 
confectionary; also with the syrups of 
liquid preserves, mixing some of the 
liquor with water and sugar, suthcient 
to make it palatable. You may either 
ice it or not, according as you think 


proper. 

FIELDFARES, Roasted. — When 
they are picked and drawn, lard them 
with bacon, puta paper round them,and 
lay them at a distance from the fire; 
when they are nearly done, take off the 
paper, and let them finish, to be of a 
nice brown} then serve with gravy or 
melted butter for sance. 

FIGS, to keep all the Year fit for 
Use.—Put some figs in a large earthen 
jar, with a layer of their own leaves be- 
tween them; then boil some water an 
honey, skimming it well (be careful not 
to make it too thick of the honey), and 
pour it warm over the figs ; then stop the 
Jar very close. When you take out the 
figs for use, soak them for two hours 1n 
warm water. 

Fics, Preserved.*—Take some half 
ripe figs, prick themnear the stalks, and 














FIL 


_ blanch them; when half cold, throw 
them into cold water, and then drain 
them. Boil some clarified sugar to perlé, 
put in the figs, and give them three or 
four boils with the pan covered close; 
then take thern from the fire, skim them 
well, and having poured the whole into 
a pan, set it ina stove for the night. 
The next day drain off the syrup (with- 
out removing the fruit), boil it up ten or 
a dozen times, and then pour it on them 
when no more than lukewarm} on the 
ensuing day, having drained off the 
syrup, boil it to grand perlé; then 
add the figs, cover the preserving-pan 
close, boil them up once, skim it well, 

_and put itinto pots, &c. for use. 

Fies (Green) to Preserve.—Slit some 
small green figs on the top, and put 
them into water for ten days, and pro- 
ceed thus:—Put as much salt into the 
water as will make it bear an egg; then 
let it settle, take off the scum, and put 
the clear brine to the figs; keep them 
in water for ten days, then put them 
into fresh water; let them boil till you 
can easily pass a pin into them; drain 
themand putthem intoother fresh water, 
shifting them every day for four days; 
again drain them, put them into clarified 
sugar, warm them a little, and leave 
them to stand till the next day; warm 
them again, and when they are become 
green, give them a good boil; then boil 
soine sugar to blow, pnt it tothem, and 
give them another boil; the next day, 
drain and dry them. 

Fias (Ripe). to Preserve. — Take the 
white figs when ripe, slit them in the 


tops, put them into clarified sugar, and | 


give thema good boil; skim them, and 
leave them to stand till the next day; then 
boil some more sugar aw souffié, put it 
to the figs, and give them another boil ; 
the next day drain and dry them. 
FILBERT Biscucts. — Take some 
Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in 
a mortar to break their shells; pick all 
the shells from them clean, pound them 
in a mortar very fine, and mix whites of 
eggs with them; take care they do not 
oil; mix three pounds of powdered- 
sugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs, 
toa proper thickness; let your cven be 


of a moderate heat, then with the spad- 


_ dle and knife, drop small pieces, about 
halfas big as a nutmeg ; put two or three 
sheets of paper under them, let them 
bake of a fine brown, and all alike; and 
Jet them be cold before you take them 
off the paper. 

Fitsert Biscuits.* — Take half a 
pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter al- 
monds, the whites of six, and the yolks 
of three eggs, an ounce of flour, and half 


( 238 ) 


FIL 


a pound of sugar; blanch and pound the 
filberts and almonds, adding, occasion- 
ally, a little white of egg to prevent 
their oiling. Beat the whites to a snow, 
then the yolks, mix the latter with half 
the sugar; beat them well, and jhav- 
ing mixed 


whilst you are beating, sift them into 
the .whites; when all are thoroughly 
incorporated, pour the preparation into 


paper cases, and bake them in a mo-— 


derate oven. A little grated lemon- 
peel, or any other aromatic ingredient 
added to the yolks, greatly improves 
these biscuits. 

Fitpert, Blancmange.* — Blanch a 
pound of filberts, and lay half of them 
in cold water for two hours; put the 
other half pound into a pan over a mode- 
rate fire, stirring them constantly witha 
silver spoon, till they are of a clear yel- 
low, when remove them from the fire, 
and let them cool: then pound them, 
adding occasionally a little water to pre- 
vent their oiling. When well pounded, 
take them from the mortar, and put 
them into a pan, with two glasses anda 
half of water; press the whole through a 
napkin to extract the milk; to which put 
an ounce of sugar; as soon as the latter is 
dissolved press it a second time through 
a napkin, and add to it half an ounce of 
isinglass, Proceed ina similar manner 
with the filberts which have been in the 
water, by which means you will have one 
part of your blancmange perfectly white, 
and.the otheraclear light yellow. Finish 
your blancmange in the usul way. 

Fiugerts (burnt) White.—Take some 
Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them ; 
put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, 
and put them in the oven to roast; then 
have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it 
boil till it comes almost to caramel 5 put 
your filberts in, stir them till they are 
all covered with sugar, pick them in a 
sieve, break those which stick together, 
and then have another pan with syrup 
boiled the same as the first, and give the 
filberts a second coat of sugar. 

Fitperts, Canxellons of.*—Burn and 
pound six ounces of filberts, moistening 
them with white of egg; when well 
pounded, add a quarter of a pound of fine 
pounded sugar, and half the white of an 
egg; Gry this paste a little, and then 
press it through a syringe, cutting the 
cannellons about four inches in length ; 
make the fréture quite hot, dip the can- 
nellons in batter, and fry them. Sprinkle 
them with sugar, and glaze them witha 
salamander. ‘l'ake particular care to 
keep the cannellons perfectly strait. 

FiuBerts (Conserve of.)—Upon half a 


the other ingredients to- 
gether, put them into a sieve, and 











FIL ( 239 ) FIL 


pound of sugar put an ounce of filberts 
cut into as small strips as possible; the: 
kernels being first scalded, as is done in 
blanched almonds, to get the skin off; 
finish the same as dried conserves. 
Fitgert Cream Frangaise.* — Wash 
and drain a quarter of a pound of filberts 
(blanched) andcolour them very slightly: 
when cold, pound them, adding occa- 
sionally a spoonful of milk ; put the paste 
into five glasses of boiling milk, cover it 
close, and let it stand till no more than 


_lukewarm: and, having in the mean- 


tine beat up the yolks of eight eggs, 
into which strain the infusion of filberts, 
add ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of 
salt; set the cream in the usual way, 
put six drachms of isinglass to it, and 
finish as directed. See Cream Fran- 
Eaise. 

This kind of cream is made in the same 
manner with almonds, in which case, six 
ounces of sweet, and halfan ounce of bit- 
ter almonds, are the proper quantities. 

Firpert Burnt, Ice Cream. — Roast 
some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, 
and pound them a little with some 
cream; put four eggs into a stewpan, 
witn one pint of cream and two gills of 
syrup ; boil it till it becomes thick, pass 
it through a sieve, and freeze it; then 
mix the filberts with it before you put it 
into your moulds. 

Fitgert (Burnt) Cream Patissiére.*¥— 
Wash, drain,and dry a quarter of a pound 
of filberts, throw them into a preserving 
pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of 
sugar boiled to soufflé ; let them boil up 
about a dozen times, then stir them 
lightly with a spatula, that the sugar 
may adhere to the filberts ; as soon as it 
begins to candy, pour the whole on the 
slab, carefully removing whatever sugar 
may stick to the pan or spatula; when 
the almonds are cold, add two ounces of 
powder sugar, and then crush them with 
arolling pin, put them into the cream 
patissiére, and make it according to the 
directions for that article. 

Fiizerts, Petits, Soufflés of.*—Beat 
up half a pound of sifted sugar, with the 
white of an egg; grate into this three 
eunces of burnt filberts ; mix them to- 
gether, and, if necessary, add the white 
ef another egg. Finish the petits soufllés 
as usnal. 

Fiiupert Génoise.*—Pound six ounces 
of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then 

mut two-thirds of them to the usual 
ingredients, instead of sweet almonds, 
and make the génoises according to di- 
rections. When baked, cut them into 
crescents, but do not dry them; mix the 
remainder of your filberts, with a quarter 
of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little 


white of egg; cover the génotses with 
this, and then colour them. 

fitgerts Glacées a la Royale.*—Beat 
up a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, 
with the white of an egg, for ten minutes 5 
roll in this glaze, two ounces of filberts, 
(previously blanched, and slightly burnt); 
then lay them on paper, in groups of two, 
three, or four together, according to your 
fancy: take care to clear away the glaze 
so that the filberts are merely covered 
with it. When you have done as many 


‘aS you require, set them in a gentle 


oven, till they are of a proper colour, 
then take them out ; donot remove them 
from the paper before they are cold. 

Frugert Ice.*—Take a pound of fil- 
berts, shell and blanch them}; boil half 
a pound of sugar to souwflé, then throw 
in the filberts, and let them boil up 
about a dozen times, then move them 
about with a spatula, that the sugar may 
adhere to them; as soon as they begin 
to candy, take them out; and when cold, 
put them into a saucepan, with the yolks 
of nine eggs, to which add a quart of 

ouble cream 3 set this on the fire, like 
all other cream ices; when done, strain 
it off; let it cool, and then ice it as 
usual, 

Fitgert Macaroons.*—Take a pound 
of filberts, and puta quarter of them into 
a preserving-pan (immediately after you 
have taken them from the shells), over 
a moderate fire; stir them continually 
with a silver spoon, until they are co- 
loured, and the skin begins to peel off; 
then take them out; rub off the skin en- 
tirely, and when quite cold, pound them 
with a little white of egg: proceed in the 
same manner with the remaining three 
quarters ; and when all are thus pounded 
separately, put the whole together into 
the mortar, with a pound of sugar, and 
the whites of two eggs, and beat them 
for ten minutes; after which, add two 
pounds more of sifted sugar, previously 
beaten up with six whites of eggs; stir 
all these together well for five or six 
minutes, when the preparation should 
be sufficiently firm, to prevent its spread- 
ing when laid; if, however, it be too 
firm, add to it more white of egg. When 
you have proceeded so far, wet the palms 
of your hands, and roll a spoonful of the 
preparation to the size and form of a 
nutmeg; when all done, dip your hands 
in water, and pass them gently over the 
macaroons, which wiil make their surface 
smooth and shining; put them into a 
nearly cold oven ; close it tight, and let 
them remain in it for three quarters of 
an hour. Lay the macaroons at least an 
inch apart, and as round as possible. 

Fitpert Mirlitons.*— Peel a quarter 





- 
Ye ae 


ee 








— 


FIL 


of a pound of filberts, and put them into a 
preserving-pan, over a moderate fire, to 
colour them lightly: when quite cold, 
pound them with a little white of egg, 
to prevent their oiling; then mix them 
with six ounces of powder suyar, four 
eggs, and a grain of salt: when well 
amalgamated, add two ounces of melted 
fresh butter, and fill your moulds, pre- 
pared as for other mzriztons ; cover them 
with very fine sugar, and bake them ina 
moderate oven. 

Fitpert Nougats, with whipped 
Oream.*—Pee! half a pound of filberts, 
and chop them, not very small, and put 
them into the oven to colour them: then 
boil a quarter of a pound of powder sugar 
to a clear reddish colour; mix the filberts 
with it, and pour into moulds, of what- 
ever form you may think proper; plain 
ones are, however, the best: then smooth 
and press the filberts within, so that they 
may take the form of the mould per- 
fectly ; and when wanted for table, put 
in each a little whipped cream, flavoured 
to your fancy: serve them turned over, 
that the cream may not be visible. 
These quantities, with eight spoonsful 
of cream, mixed with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, and the aromatic ingre- 
dients, will make about twenty or twenty- 


four small nougats. 


Fiuzerts, Petits Gdteaux Royaux.*— 
Peel and pound two ounces of filberts to 


‘a fine paste, and pass it through a fine 


hair sieve, and mix it with six ounces of 
sifted sugar, and the white of an egg; 


' the petits giteaux are made in the same 


manner as petits gdteaux royaux of al- 
‘monds ; put the above preparation on 
them, and finish them as directed. 
Frugert Pralines (burnt) Red.—Take 
some Barcelona filbert nuis, and crack 
them, put the kernels into a copper pan 
or sheet, and put them in the oven to 
roast, have a pan with syrup boiling, and 
let it boil till it comesalmost to caramel}; 
puta little cochineal intoa cup. when 
the sugar is boiled, add toit the cochineal 
and the filberts, and stir them witha 
large wooden spoon, till you find the su- 
gar has got hard round them; put them 
in a sieve, and separate those which 
stick together; have another pan’ with 
syrup in, and boil it as hefore, and as 
high; put the same quantity of cochincal 
in, and mix them as before,as doing them 
a second time they will become a much 
finer colour; then put them into a box. 
Fizpert Rolls.t—Having peeled half 
a pound of filberts, put them into a pre- 
servirg pan over a moderate fire, and 
stir them constantly with a spatula unti! 
they become equally coloured of a light 
‘yellow: then set them tocool. When 


( 240 ) 


FIS 

cold, pound them with a little white of 
egg to a paste ; then mix them with half 
a pound of flour, the same of powder 
sugar, and the yolks of four or five eggs, 
and then finish the operation as directed 


for almond rolls. Dorez, and trace on 


the surface an ear of wheat, or any thing 
else, with the point of a knife: take care 
to dry them well in the baking, that 
they may be crisp, Coarse powder sugar 
may also be strewed over, before they 
are putin theoven. | oe 

Fiigert, Small Wafers.* —'Take @ 
quarter of a pound of the preparation 
used for spoon-biscuits, and ‘spread it 
over a well-buttered baking plate, with 
a knife, taking care to keep,it of an equal 
thickness all over; peel a quarter of a 
poundiof filberts,‘cut them into thin slips, 
and mix them with two ounces of pow- 
der sugar, and a very little white o! egg; 
strew this over the above preparation, 
and bake itin a moderate oven; finish 
in the usual manner. 

FIRMITY.—To a quart of ready- 
boiled wheat, put by degrees, two quarts 
of new milk, breaking the jelly; and 
then add four ounces of currants, picked 
clean, and well washed ; stir them and 
boil them till they are done. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, 
with two or three spoonsful of milk; add 
this to the wheat, stir them together 
while over the fire; then sweeten and 
serve ina deep dish, either cold or warm, 
according to taste. 

FISH (Observations on).—There isa 
general rule in choosing most kinds of 


fish; if their gills are red, their eyes 


plump, and the whole fish stiff, they 
are good; if, on the contrary, the gills 
are pale, the eyes sunk, and the fish 
flabby, they are stale. 

The greatest care should be taken 
that the fish is properly cleansed before 
being dressed, but not washed beyond 
what is absolutely necessary for cleaning, 
as by perpetual watering, the flavour is 
diministed. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boiled, some salt, and a little vine- 
gar should be put into the water, to give 
it firmness. Care should be taken to 
boil the fish well, but net to let it break. 
Cod, whiting, and haddock are much 
better for being a little salted, and kept 
for a day. 


There is often a muddy smell and taste a 


attached to fresh-water fish, which may 
be got rid of by soaking it, after it has 
been thoroughly cleaned in a salt 
and water ; or, if the fish is not too large, 
scald it in the same; then dry, and 
dress it. : 
Care should be taken that the fish is 


put into cold water, and allowed to do~ BS 





i cD eel 


re Tame 








FIS ( 241 ): FES 


wery gently, otherwise the outside will 
break before the inside is done. 

Crimp fish must be put into boiling 
water; and as soon as it boils up, a 
little cold water should be put in, to 
check the excessive heat, and simmer it 
for a few minutes, 

If the fish is not taken out of the water 
the instant it is done, it will become 
woolly; to ascertain when it is ready, 
the fish plate on which it is dressed may 
be drawn up, ard if sutficiently done, it 
will leave the bone. To keep hot for 
serving, and to prevent it from losing 
its colour, the fish plate should be placed 
crossways over the fish-kettle, and a 
clean cloth put over the fish. 

Small fish may be either nicely fried 
plain, or done over with egg and bread 
erumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish 
en which the fish is to be served, should 
be placed a folded damask napkin, and 
upon this put the fish, with the Jiver and 
ree; then garnish the dish with horse- 
radish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a 
dish which is almost more attended to 
than any other. 

To fry or broil fish properly, after it 
is well cleaned and washed, it should be 
wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when 
perfectly dry, wetted with egy, and 
sprinkled all over with very fine bread 
crumbs; it will look still better to be 
done over with egg and crumbs a second 
_time. Then having on the fire a thick- 
bottomed frying-pan, with plenty of lard 
er dripping, boiling hot; put the fish 
into it, and let it fry tolerably quick tiil 
it is done, and of a nice brown yellow. 
If itis done before it has obtained a nice 
brown colour, the pan should be drawn 
to the side of the fire, the fish carefully 
taken up, and placed either upon a sieve 
turned upwards, or on the under side of 
a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, 
and finish browning; if wanted particu- 
larly nice, a sheet of cap paper must be 
put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil 
obtains a much finer colour than when 
done in larder dripping. Butter should 
never be used, as it gives a bad colour. 
Garnish your dish with a fringe of curled 
raw parsley, or with fried parsley. 

When fish is to be broiled, it must be 
seasoned, floured, and done on a very 
clean gridiron; which, when hot, should 
be rubbed over with suet, to hinder the 
fish from sticking. It should be broiled 
over a very clear fire, to prevent its tast- 
ing smoky, and great care must be taken 
not to scorch it. 

Fisn, New Method of Dressing.*— 
Take any sort of fish you think proper, 
being very careful that it is quite fresh ; 
clean it thoroughly, dry, and season it 


to your taste; then put it (without any 
moisture), into a pan, which may be 
closely covered, with the exception of a 
small hole, to allow of evaporation. Put 
it into an oven as soon as the bread is 
drawn, and let it stand until the whole 


is so completely dissolved, that the bones. 


are not perceptible. When cold, this 
ae a very transparent, well-flavoured’ 
jelly. 
Fisu (Aspic of ).—Put some warm sa- 
vory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, 
into a plain tin or copper mould; then 
take fresh smelts turned round, boil 
them gently in strong salt and water till 


| done, then lay them ona drainer. When 


the savory jelly in the mould is quite 
cold, put the smelts upon it, with the 
best side downwards; then put a little 
more jelly, just lukewarm, over the fish, 
and when that is cold, fill the mould with 
more of the same kind. When it is to be 
served to table, dip the mould in warm 
water, put the dish upon the jelly, and 
turn it over. 

Pieces of lobsters, fillets of soles, &c., 
may be done in the same manner. 

Fisn, Consommé of.*— Take carp, 
tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh- 
water fish of the same kind; clean them 
well, and cut them into pieces, as near 
of a size as may be; lay them in a stew- 
pan, ona layer of sliced onions and car- 
rots; as soon as they begin to sweat, put 
in a bit of butter, and leave them fora 
quarter of an hour; moisten them with 
fish broth, and let them boil gently for 
an hour; keep the pan closely covered ; 
this will afford a very nourishing broth. 

Fisu (Entrée of, in a Mould).— Rub 
the inside of a mould with fresh butter; 
strew grated parmesan cheese over the 
bottom, about an inclrthick, and puta 
layer of boiled macaroni, of the same 
thickness, and upon that, fish of whatever 
sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, 
and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, 
thyme, and shalots, chopped very fine, 
and a little pounded spices and cayenne- 
pepper, then a layer of macaroni and 
parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate 
oven; let it bake one hour, then care- 
fully turn it out of the mould into a dish, 
and serve it to table, with a little good 
cullis round it. 

Fisu_ Kritters.- Make a light force- 
meat with fish of any kind. Then puta 
small quantity into pieces of puff-paste, 
the size of acommon puff; then fry them 
in boiling lard; drain them dry. Serve 
them to table with truffles, or Jéehamelle 


‘sauce round them. 


Fisu, Glaze of.*— Take some fish 


broth, to which add an eel, cut in pieces, 


and ie heads, tails, fins, and large bones, 








oe 





FIS 


of either sea or river fish; wash them 
perfectly clean, and chop them into 
small pieces. When they have been 
-boiling in the broth for about an hour, 
strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a 
jelly, which is used to glaze ali sorts of 
muigre dishes. . 

Fisn Gravy.—Cut two or three little 
fish of any kind into small pieces; put 
them into a saucepan, with rather more 
water than will cover them, a bit of 
toasted bread, a blade of mace, some 
lemon-peel, whole pepper, anda bunch 
of sweet herbs; let it simmer gently till 
it is rich and good; brown a little bit of 
butter in a stewpan, and when it is 
browned, strain the gravy into it, and let 
it boil for a few minutes. 

-Fisa Gravy.—Skin two or three eels, 
or some flounders; gut and wash them 
thoroughly ; cut them into small pieces, 
and put them into a saucepan; cover 
them with water, and add a little crust 

‘of bread, toasted brown, two blades of 
mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, 
a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, 
and a little horse-radish, about a tea- 
spoonful; cover close, and let it simmer ; 
add a bit of butter and some flour, and 
boil with the above. 

Fisa Gravy. * — Put some slices of 
onion into a stewpan, and set them on 
the fire; when they are completely dis- 
solved, add a piece of butter, and some 
small fish, or pieces of carp, tench, perch, 
or any other you find convenient. As 
soon as they begin to dissolve, and give 
out their moisture, puta glassful of root 
broth to them, and boil them for half an 
hour; then add a glass of white wine, 
and a little lemon-juice, and boil it 
another half hour, when it may be 
pressed through a sieve, with great force. 

Fish Catsup.*— Take rather more 
than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red 
‘port, two table-spoonsful of pepper 
ae very fine, plenty of shalots and 

orse-radish, the peel of half a lemon 
and two or three bay-leaves, and a pound 
of anchovies; let the whole boil together 
until the anchovies are dissolved, then 
strain, and when cold, put it into bottles. 

Two or three spoonsful are:sufficient for 
a pound of butter. 

Fisn Patties.—Take a carp, a tench, 
and an eel, boil them a little; half stew 
six oysters ; pick the flesh from the bones 
of the fish, and beat it together in a 
mortar, with the melts of the fish, some 
mace, and some white wine; mix them 
well together; make some rich puff- 
paste, line the tins with it, then putin 
the forcemeat, with one oyster, and a 
Me of butter; put on the top, and bake 
them, 


( 242) 


FIS 


Fisu, Paté Chaud of.*-~Cut a piece of 
salmon into scallops, heat six ounces of 
fresh butter, and put into it two spoons- 


ful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of © 


truffles, and.a shalot blanched, all shred 
very small, alittle nutmeg and salt; soak 
the scallops in this, and place them one — 
by one within the pdté chaud (see that 
article), pour over them the jbutter that 
remains, two bay-leaves, and cover the 
whole with slices of bacon. Finish the 
paté according to rule, and bake it an 
hour and a quarter in a brisk oven. 
When done, garnish it with carp roes, 
cray-fish tails, oysters, mushrooms, arti= 
choke bottoms and truffles, and a good 
Espagnole or tomata sauce. 

Fish Pie.—Clean and cut fresh sal- 
mon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon or had- 
docks, inte moderate sized pieces; then 
roll them into a mixture made of pars- 
ley, thyme, and shalots, chopped fine, 
some beaten spices, powder of mush- 
rooms or truffles, pepper and salt; put 
them intoa deep dish with some light 
forcemeat round; cover with puff paste ; 
egg and ornament the top with leaves of 
paste, bake it till the fish is perfectly 
done; and a quarter of an hour before it 
is sent to table, put in some good strong 
cullis, with a little Madeira added to it. 

Fisu Pze.—Take any sort of fish you 
please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, 
&c., and scale it, and cut it into pieces > 
then line a pie-dish with crust, and put 
the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some salt, and bruised spices, and 
a layer of butter at the top; after this put 
on the top, and let it bake for an hour 
and ahalf. When done, take off the fat, 
and put ina good vegetable ragofiit made 
in the following manner :—Stir a little 
flour with butter over the fire tillitis of a 
fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half 
a pint of white wine, some soup-maigre, 
or warm water, and add mushrooms, a 
bunch of herbs, and a little salt, let the 
whole boil half an hour, andthen add the 
soft roes of carp, parboiled; Jet them 
stew a quarter of an hour, and then put 
the ragofitinto the pies. Any sort of 
vegetable ragofit may be made use of, in= 
stead of the above in these pies, such as 
of truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads 
of asparagus. Sie 

Fisn Muaigre Pie.-—Bone and cut into 
pieces a carp; make it into forcemeat 
with some of the roe, parsley, thyme, 
shalots chopped verv fine, a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, salt, a little pound- 
ed spice, halfa pint of cream, four eggs, 
and the crumb of a French roll. After- 
wards take pieces ofeel, salmon and skate, 
pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, 
lemon-juice, and a bit of butter. When 








FIS ( 243 ) FIS 


they are cold, put some of the forcemeat 
at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix 
with the fish some stewed mushrooms, 
the very smallest onions, truffles and 
morels blanched, and the roe cut into 
pieces, and put them into the dish with 
more forcemeat rouna the top; then 
cover with puff paste, ornament with 
leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When 
itis to be served to table, cut a small 
hole in the centre of the top, and pour in 
some good cullis. 

Fis ( Sa/¢).—Salted fish requires soak- 
ing, according to the time it has been in 
salt; that which is hard and dry, re- 
quires two nights’ soaking, changing the 


water twoor three times; the interme- | 


diate time lay it ona stone floor ; Barrel- 
ed Cod requires less soaking ; and for the 
best Dogger Bank Split Fish, which has 
not been in salt more than a fortnight or 
three weeks, stil! less soaking will be 
necessary. . 

Fisu Sauce. —'Take some mutton or 
veal gravy, and put to it a little of the 
liquor that drainsfrom your fish. Put it 
into asaucepan,with anonion,an anchovy, 
a spoonful of catsup, and a glass of white 
wine. Thicken it witha bit of butter 
rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. 
If you cannot procure cream, instead of 
white wine you must use red. 

Fisn Sauce (to keep a year.)*—Take 
forty anchovies, chop them up, bones and 
all, put to them ten shalots cut small,a 
handful of scraped horse-radish, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of mace, a quartof white 
wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in 
slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a 
pint of red wine, twelve cloves, twelve 
pepper-corns. Boil the whole together 
till itis reduced to a quart ; then strain 
it, put it into a bottle, and cork it close ; 
keep it in a cool dry place. One tea- 
spoonful will be sufficient for half a pound 
of butter, Warm the sauce first, and 
then put the butter in to melt, with a 
little flour. 

Fis Sauce without Butter. — Leta 
quarter of a pint of vinegar, and half a 

int of water, (the water must not be 
Fara) simmer very gently, withan onion, 
half a handful of horse-radish, four 
cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea- 
spoonfal of black pepper, these spices 
should be slightly bruised. When the 
onion is quite tender, chop it small with 
a couple of anchovies, and set the whole 
to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful 
of catsup. In the mean time, have ready 
and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh 
eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by de- 
grees with them, and when they are well 
mixed set the saucepan over a moderate 
fire, holding a basin in one hand, into 


which toss the sauce to and fro, and 
shake the saucepan over the fire, to pre- 
vent the eggs from curdling. Do not 
boil them, only let the sauce be hot 
enough to give it the thickness of melted 
butter. 

Fisn Sauce ad la Craster. — Thicken a 
quarter of a pound of butter with flour, 
and brown it; then add to it a pound of 
the best anchovies cut small, six blades 
of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries 
of black pepper and allspice, a few small 
onions, some savoury, thyme, basil, 
knotted marjorum, a little parsley and 
sliced horse-radish; on these pour half a 
pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a 
half of strong gravy. Simmer the whole 
gently for twenty minutes, then strain it 
through a sieve, and put it into bottles 
for use ; the proper way to use it is by 
putting some of it into the butter while 
melting. 

Fisn Sauce (Hxcellent),—Put a pint of 
remarkably fine port wine into a tin 
saucepan, with a gill of mountain, half a 
pint of fine walnut catsup, twelve ancho- 
vies with the liquor belonging to them, 
a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice 
of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some 
cayenne pepper according to taste, three 
ounces of scraped horse-radish, three 
blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of 
made mustard; let the whole boil gently 
till the rawness is taken off; then put it 
into small bottles for use. They must 
be corked very close, and sealed at the 


top. 

lt Sauce (White).—Simmer to the 
quantity required, an anchovy, a glass of 
white wine, a bit of horse-radish, two or 
three blades of mace, an onion stuck with 
cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and a quar- 
ter of a pint of water; strain it, put in 
two spoonsful of cream, a large bit of but- 
ter raixed well with some flour; keep 
stirring it till it boils, add a little catsup, 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice when off 
the fire. More wine may be added if 
agreeable. 

Fisu Soup.—Take pieces of different 
sorts of fish, such as salmon, skate, sole, 
&c.; sweat them till tender, with turnip, 
onion, celery, a clove of garlic, and a 
blade of mace; then add some plain veal 
broth. Simmer the whole together for 
halfan hour; then strain, and skim it 
free from fat; season with salt and 
cayenne pepper, clear it with white of 
egg, and colour with a little saffron. It 
may be served to table with celery or 
rice in it. 

Fisa (Tureen of ).—Take fresh water 
fish of any kind, or different sorts toge- 
ther. If they be dressed en gras, stew 
them wee few slices of ham and veal, @ 








FLO 
little broth, a glass of white wine, a 


bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, one 


of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a few slices 
of bacon, pepper and salt; when done, 
drain them from. the liquor, and put the 
fish ina tureen; adda little cullis to their 
broth, skim it, sift it in a sieve, and 
serve upon the fish; you may add what 
sorts of ragofit you choose. 

If it is to be mazgre, braze the fish as 
such, and serve with their sauce, or with 
pease or lentil cullis. Observe, that 
tench must be scalded before they are 
dressed ; but the scales must be left upon 
pike and perch until they are done, 
which will give the meat a better colour 
and a finer white. 

FLIP.— To make a quart of flip :— 
Put the ale on the fire to warm, and beat 
up three or four eggs, with four ounces 
of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated 
nutmeg or ginger, and a quartern of good 
old rum or brandy. When the ale nearly 
boils put it into one pitcher, and the 
rum, eggs, &c. into another ; turn it from 
one to another till it is as smooth as 
cream. 

FLOUNDERS, to Choose. — They 
should be thick and stiff, their eyes 
bright and full, and must be dressed as 
fresh as possible, as they very soon be- 
come flabby and bad. They are botha 
sea and river fish; ghey are in season 
from January to March, and from July 
to September. 

Fiounpvers Bocled.—Puton astewpan 
with a sufficient quantity of water to co- 
ver the flounders which are to be dressed; 
put in some vinegar and _ horse-radish ; 
when the water boils put in the fish, hay- 
ing been first well cleaned, and their fins 
cut off; they must not boil too fast for 
fear they should break ; when they are 
sufficiently done, lay them on a fish plate, 
the tails in the middle. Serve them with 
parsley and butter. 

Fiounvers @ la Bonne Femme.*—But- 
ter a dish, and lay in it three or four 
flounders, with salt, pepper, chopped 
parsley, a glass of white wine or water, 
and grated bread over the whole; cover 
your dish, and set it ona stove for ten 
minutes ; take it off and serve. 

_Fuounpers Brozled.* — Cleanse and 
wash as many flounders as you may re- 
quire, dry and rub them over with oil, 
and sprinkle salt and pepper on them ; 
lay reeds across your gridiron, and place 
your fish on these; broil them over a 
slow fire, and serve them with an Jfaii- 
enne maigre, capers, or any other sauce 
you may think proper to use. 

Friounpers Brazled.*—Steep your fish 
in oil mixed with pepper, parsiey, and 
young onions, all carefully taken out 


( 244) 


FLO 


before the fish is served; whilst broilin: 
baste with the marinade, that is, the oil 
and herbs, and serve with whatever 
sauce youthink proper.  — = |. 
Frounpers Fricasseed, — Carefully 
clean the fish, and take off the black 
skin, but not the white; cut the flesh 
from the bones into long slices, and dip 
them in yolk of egg; strew them over 


| with bread raspings, and fry them in cla- 


rified butter; when they are sufficiently 
done, lay them ona plate, and keep them 
hot. For sauce, take the bones of the 
fish, boil them in water; then putin an ~ 
anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little 
pepper, salt, cloves, and mace; let these 
simmer till the anchovy is dissolved 5 
then take the butter ;the fish was fried 
in, put it into a pan over the fire, shake 
some flour into it, and keep it stirring 
whilst the flour is shaking in; then strain 
the liquor into it, and boil it till it be- 
comes thick; squeeze some lemon-juice 
into it; place the fish in a dish, and pour 
the sauce over them. ; 

Frounpers Firéed.— Well rub them in- 
side and out with salt, then ‘let them lie 
for two hours, to give them some firm- 
ness.. Dip them into egg, cover them 
with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. 

Fiounper Pie. — Thoroughly clean 
some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just 
boil them, cut off the flesh close to the 
bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and 
lay a little butter at the bottom ;. then 
put inthe fish; season with pepper and 
salt to your palate ; boil the bones in the 
water the fish was boiled in, with a little 
bit of horse-radish, a little parsley, a 
very small piece of lemon-peel, anda 
crust of bread; boil it till there is just 
liquor enough for the pie, then strain it, 
and put it into the dish; put on the top, 
and let it bake. Nie Pe 

FtounpErs Stewed.—Takesome floun- 
ders and fry them of a nice brown ; then 
take them up, and add to the butter they 
were fried in, a sufficient quantity of 
water to make sauce for the fish that are 
done; toa quart of watertwo anchovies 
and an onion cut.in slices, a spoonful of 
catsup, and two spoonsful of red wine; 
let it simmera quarter of an hour; then 
put it to the fish, and let them stew gently 
a quarter of an hour; then take them out, 
put them into a warm dish, and thicken 
the sauce, with butter and flour; give it 
bail, and strain it off; pour it over the 

sh. mr 

FLOWERS én Sugar. — Clarify sugar 
to a caramel height, which may be known 
by dipping in a fork, and if it throws the 
sugar as fine as_ threads, put in the 
flowers. Have ready some tea-cups, with 
the insides rubbed with sweet oil; put 








FLU 


sugar and flowers, and when cold turn 
them out of the cups, and serve them to 
table piled one upon another. — 
FLUMMERY.— Steep three large 
handfuls of very smal! white oatmea! a 


. day and night in cold water ; then pour 


it off clear; then add as much more wa- 
ter, and jet it stand another day and 
anight. Then strain it through a fine 
hair sieve, and boil it till it is of the 


_ consistence of hasty pudding, keeping it 


well stirred all the time it is boiling. 
When first strained, put to it one large 
spoonful of white sugar, and two of 
orange-flower water. Pour it into shal- 
low dishes, and serve to eat with wine, 
cider, milk or cream, and sugar. 
Fuummery Dutch.—Boi! very gently 
for half an hour, two ounces of isinglass 
in three balf pints of water ; adda pint 
of white wine, the juice of three lemons 
and the thin rind of one, and rub a 
few limps of sugar on another to obtain 
the essence, and with them add as much 


_' more sugar as will make it sufficiently 


sweet; and having beaten up the yolks 
of seven eggs, give them and the above, 
when mixed, one scald; stir all the time, 
and pour the whole into a basin’; stir it 
till it is half cold; then let it settle, and 
put it into a melon shape. 

FirumMmery French.—Beat an ounce of 
isinglass fine, put it into a quart of cream, 
and boil it gently for a quarter of an 
hour, keeping it stirring all the time. 
Then take it off, sweeten it with fine 
powder sugar, put in a spoonful of rose 


and another of orange-flower water, | 
strain ii through a sieve, and stir it tiil 
half cold. Put it intoa mould or basin, | 
and when cold, turn it into a dish, and | 
| consistent to cut with a knife, but not 


garnish with currant jelly. 4 
FiuMMERY (Oatmeal). — Boil four 


quarts of water; whenitis rather warmer | 


than milk from the cow, put to it two 
quarts of oatmeal just cracked; when it 
has stood till sour, pour off the water, 
wash the flour out weil through a sieve, 
with three quarts of fresh water; let this 
stand twenty-four hours, then pour the 


water clear off, leaving the thick ; to one 


cup of which measure three of milk; 


set it over the fire, sticring it; when it. 


begins to curdle put it through a sieve, 
set the liquor again on the fire; repeat 
this, passing it through the sieve so long 
as it curdles; then boil it for twenty 
minutes; put it into cups first dipped 
in water. 


Tf the water stands upon the oatmeal 
fourteen or twenty days, according to the. 


weather, so that it only turns. sour, not 


mouldy, the better the flummery will be. 


( 245) 


into each cup four table spoonsful of the | 





FOR 


FrumMeEry (to make a Temple in).— 


Divide a quart of stiff fummery into 


three parts, colour one part pink with a 
little bruised cochineal, steeped in French 
brandy. Scrape an ounce of chocolate, 
dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and 
mix it with another part of the flummery 
which will make it a stone colour, and 
have the last part. white; then wet the 
temple mould, and fitit in a pot to make 
it stand even. Fill the bottom of the 
temple with pink flummery for the steps, 
the tour points with white, and fill the 
rest up with the chocolate flummery, 
and letit stand till the next day; then 
loosen it very gently from the mould, 
and turn it ont. Stick sprigs of flowers 
from the top of every point, which will 
strengthen it, and give it a neat appear- 
ance. Lay round it rock candy sweet- 
meats for garnish. 

Firummery, Velch.—Put a little isin- 
glass to a quart of stiff hartshorn-jelly3 
add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy. 
and some lemon-juice and sugar; boil 
this till it is thick, then strain it; you 
may add, if you choose, three ounces of 
almonds, blanched and pounded; and 
about ten bitter ones. ; 

FONDUS.*—Put some grated Parme- 
san cheese into a basin, with pepper and 
alittle melted butter, and ithe yolks of 
eggs; stir them togegher ; whip the whites 
of the eggs to a firm froth, and add them, 
a little ata time, to the cheese, stirring 
lightly with a wooden spoon; half fill as 
many paper cases as you can, and bake 
them, like biscuits, in a moderate oven. 
Serve them as quickly as possible after 
they are dene. ; 

FORCEMEAT (Ingredients for). — 
Forcemeat should be made sufficiently 


dry or heavy. No one flavour should 
predominate greatly; according to what 
it is wanted for, a selection may be made 
from the following list, being careful to 
use the least of those articles which are 
the most pungent: 

Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat 
bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, par- 
sley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
yolks and whites of eggs, well beaten, to 
bind the mixture, 

The forcemeat may be made with any 
of these articles without any striking fla- 
vour; therefore any of the following dif- 
ferent ingredients may be made use of to 
vary the taste. 

Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, 
penny-royal, knotted-marjoram, thyme, 
basil, yolks of hard eggs, Cayenne gar- 
lick, shalots, chives, Jamaica pepper, 1n 
fine powder, or two or three cloves. 


Y3 














FOR 


To force or stuff turkies, geese, ducks, 
_ &c., see under the heads of the different 
ways of dressing turkies, geese, &c. 

ForcemMEAT.—Take an equal quantity 
of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred ; 
beat them in a marble mortar; add pep- 

per, salt, cloves, pounded lemon-peel, 
‘and nutmeg grated, parsley and sweet 
herbs, chopped fine, a little shalot and 
young onion, a few bread-crumbs grated 
fine, and yolk of egg sufficient to work it 
light; roll this into balls with a little 
flour ; if for white sauce, boil them; if 
for brown sauce, fry them. 

Forcemeat Balls for Fish Soups, or 
Fish Stewed.—Beat the flesh and soft 
parts of a middling sized lobster, half an 
anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, 
the yolk of a hard egg, a little cayenne, 
mace, salt, and white pepper, with two 
table-spoonsful of bread-crumbs, one 
speonful of oyster liquor, two ounces of 
butter warmed, two eggs beaten for a 
long time ; make into balls, and fry them 

of a nice brown colour in butter. ‘ 

Forcemeat (Collops of).* — Mince 
some meat, and put it on the fire witha 
slice of butter ; a little parsley and green 

- enions, shred fine; shake ina little flour 
and moisten with stock ; add pepper, and 
reduce to a thick sauce that will adhere 
to the meat; then leave it to cool ; then 
make a paste with flour and water, and 
a little butter and salt; knead and roll it 
with a rolling-pin, as thin as a half- 
crown; place your meat upon it in small 
parcels, a full finger’s distance from each 
other ; wet the paste all round the meat, 
~ and then cover it with paste, rolled to 
“the same thickness as that on which you 
placed the meat, pinching the paste 
round the parcels of meat with your 
‘fingers, Cut the collops separate, and 
‘fry them ofa nice colour. This dish may 
be made with the remains of a hash, 
~ Forcemeat of Fish.—Take two ounces 
of either turbot, soles, lobster, shrimps, 
or oysters, free from skin, put it into a 
mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, 
one ounce of bread-crumbs, the yolks of 
two eggs boiled hard, a little shalot, 
grated lemon-peel, and parsley, minced 
' yery fine; then pound it well till it is 
thoroughly well mixed and quite smooth; 
season it with cayenne to your taste, 
break in one whole egg, rub it well to- 
gether, it will then be ready for use. 
Oysters, parboiled and minced fine, and 
an anchovy may be added. 

Forcemeat jor Fowls or Meat.—Shred 

a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal 
or fowl, some beef-suet, a little onion, 
some parsley, very small quantity of 
lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded 


( 246) 





FOR 


mace, and either white pepper or cay- 
enne, and some bread-crumbs. == 
Pound the whole in a mortar, and bind 


it with one or two eggs, beaten and 


strained. 
Forcemeat for Hare.—Two ounces of 
beef-suet, chopped fine, three ounces of — 
bread-crambs, grated fine, parsley, sha- 
lot, marjoram, lemon-thyme, inate 
peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, accord- 
ing to taste, and mix all together with an 


egy. 

_ Ifthe liver of the hare is quite sound, 
it may be parboiled, minced very fine, 
and mixed with the above ingredients. 

Forcemeat for Raised Pies.—Set over — 

the fire, with a small piece of butter, some 
chopped parsley, lemon-thyme, mush- 
rooms, and one clove of garlic, and stir 
them till the butter begins to look clear 5 


then put in the crumb of a French roll, 


and cover it with good stock ; stir it over 
the fire till it has boiled to a paste, then 
take it off; then set on the fire, in cold 
water, with some salt, a dozen fat chick- 
ens’ livers; when they begin to boil, 
take them off, drain them from the wa- 
ter (trim off any parts that look bad), and 
fry them in a little clarified butter til! 
done; then pound them all in a mortar 
till they are smooth, with the yolks of 
two eggs boiled hard ; then add to them 
two ounces of fat from a fillet of veal that 
has been dressed ; mix it well together $ 
add the bread, &c., and thoroughly 
pound the whole; when they are well 
mixed, put in two or three bits of truf- 
fles, or the liquor from them ; two whole 
eggs, and the yolks of three, with pepper, 
salt, and pounded spice, according to 
taste; rub the whole through a fine hair 
sieve, put it in a basin, and cover it with 
lards of fat bacon, until it is wanted for 
use. 

ForcemEat (Rago of ).*—Put a slice 
of fresh butter into a saucepan, with 
some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, parsley, 
and green onions; let the whule be well 
washed, squeezed, and chopped fine; 
shake the saucepan over the fire till the 
liquor of the vegetables is entirely con- 
sumed; then shake in a little flour, 
moisten with some gravy and cullis, and 
add salt and coarse pepper. Let it boil 
till the herbs are well done, and the 
sauce wholly consumed; then add the 
yolks of three eggs mixed up with cream, 
and thicken the ragoit over the fire, 
without letting it boil. ih 

Forcemeat for Turtle.—One pound of 
fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready- 
dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, 
crumbs of bread, a little shalot or onion, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, 








FOR 


paretey and lemon-thyme, finely shred. 
eat as many fresh eggs, yolks and 
whites, separately, as will make the in- 
gredients intoa moist paste; roll it into 
small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, 
putting them in just as it boils. When 
they are of a light brown colour, then 
take them out and drain them before the 
fire. If the suet happens to be moist or 
stale, it will be necessary to use a great 
many more eggs. 

_ Balls made this way are remarkably 
light, but rather greasy; some people 
prefer them with less suet and eggs. 

Forcemeat Patties.—Make a farce the 
same as for Raw Forcemeat Pie, only 
chop it smaller, and let the crust be a 
rich puff-paste ; cut it to the size of the 
palin geeics, fill them with the farce, 

eing first rubbed with butter; cover 
them with puff-paste, and let them bake 
in a moderate oven for about three 
quarters of an hour; when ready to serve, 
add a little warm cullis with the squeeze 
of a lemon. 

Forcemeat fur Pies.—Vake a pound 
of fillet of veal, a quarter of a pound of 
fresh pork, and some beef marrow ; sea- 
son with pepper, cloves, and grated nut- 
meg; then add some veal sweetbreads, 
truffles, and mushrooms, mincing up 
the whole together very fine. Instead of 
veal, you may use, if you please, the 
white part of any poultry or game, or 
both ja equal quantities, and instead of 
pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuf- 
fing or forcemeat that meat pies are gar- 
nished. If you desire to make this force- 
meat into balls, add the yolks of eggs, 
and roll them in flour. 

Forcemeat FPie.* — Take any sort of 
meat, either atender piece of beef, fillet of 
veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and 
chop it up with the same quantity of beef 
suet, parsley, young-onions, and mush- 
rooms shred fine, and season with salt 
and mixed spices, moistening with two 
eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream. 
When the forcemeat is finished, cover 
the bottom of a pie-dish with paste, and 
put the forcemeat over it about the thick- 
ness of an inch, completing the pie the 
same as all others. Let it bake fortwo 
hours, but if made of beef or mutton, 
still longer. When it is done open the 
pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim 
offthe fat, and put in a good cullis. 

Forcemeat (Raw) Pie.—Take fillet of 
veal chopped, with calf ’s-udder scalded, 
raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two 
or three raw eggs; when well pounded, 
and seasoned, make it into balls, or into 
the shape of sausages; put them into the 
pie, and if you choose you may add arti- 


( 247 ) 


FOW 


choke-bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, 
sweetbreads, &c., with some butter 3 
finish the same as all other pies. 

Forcemeat for Pike, Haddock, and 
small Cod.—Take equai quantities of fat 
bacon, beef suet, and fresh butter, some 
parsley, thyme, and savory, a small 
quantity of onion, and a few leaves of 
scented marjoram, shred fine, and one or 
two anchovies, a little salt and nutmeg, 
and some pepper. Oysters will be a 
great improvement, either with or with- 
out anchovies; add bread-crumbs, and 
an egg to bind. 

Forcemeat (Portuguese) for Baked 
Soles.—Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, 
alittle; then add some fat bacon that has 
been lightly fried, cut small, and some 
onions, a little garlic or shalot, some 
parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg; pound the whole fine with a few 
bread-crumbs added to it, and bind with 
the yolks of twe or three eggs. 

FOWLS, Directions for choosing and 
dressing.—When a cock is young, his 
spurs are short; take care that you are 
not deceived by their having been cut or 
pared, a trick that is often practised.’ If 
fresh their vent will be close and dark. 
Hens are best, just before they begin to 
lay, and yet are full of egg; if they are 
old, their combs and legs are rough. 

All poultry should be very carefully 
picked, every plug removed, and the 
hair nicely singed with paper. 

The cook should be careful in drawing 
poultry of ali sorts, not to break the gall- 
bag, for no washing will take off the bit- 
ter where it has touched. 

If for reasting, black-legged fowls are 
the most moist. <A good-sized fowl will 
take from three quarters of an hour to 
an hour in roasting, a middling-sized one 
about halfan hour, and a very small one, 
or chicken, twenty minutes. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and 
are longer in heating through than 
others. All sorts should be continually 
basted, that they may be served with 
a froth, and appear of a fine colour. 
The fire must be very quick and clear 
before any fowls are put down. Serve 
with egg sauce, bread sauce, or garnished 
with sausages or scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl], well hung, 
should be stuffed in the crop with sau- 
sege-meat, and served with gravy in the 
dish, and with bread saure. 

The head should be turned under the 
wing, like a turkey. 

For boiling, choose those that are not 
black-legged ; pick them carefully, singe, 
wash, and truss them. Flour them, and 
put them in boiling water; a good-sized 
one will be done in half an hour. 





FOW. 


Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, 
lemon, liver, or celery sauce. 
dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is com- 
inonly served with them. ik 

Fowls are trussed in the same manner 
as chickens (See Chickens). 


Fow.s (Béchamelle of) au Gratin.*—_| 


Put half a dozen spoonsful of béchamelle, 
and a piece of jelly into a saucepan; let 
it boil, and stir it constantly with a wooden 
spoon; take the remains of some roasted 
fowls, and having minced it very small, 
put it into the béchamelle ; stir it lightly, 
and then pourit into a silver dish; beat 
up the white of an egg, spread it over the 
mince, strew on it grated bread-crumbs, 
and Parmesan cheese; pour a little melt- 
ed butter over the whole, and colour it 
with a salamander. 

Fowts Boiled with Rice.—Stew a fowl 
in some well skimmed clear mutton 
broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, 
pepper, and salt. About half an hour 

efore it is ready, put in a quarter ofa 
pint of rice well washed and soaked. 
Simmer till tender; then strain it from 
the broth, and put the rice on a sieve 
before the fire. Keep the fowl! hot, lay 
it in the middle of a dish, and the rice 
round it without the broth. The less 
liquor the fow! is done with, the better. 
Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter 
for sauce. 

Fowt, Boudins of * — Sprinkle some 
flour ona table, and lay on it some farce 


a& Queneiles, make into whatever forms | 


you may think proper, and poach them; 
then drain, and cover them with bread- 
crumbs; broil and serve them ona half! 
glaze. 
- Fowt a la Braize.—Truss a fowl the 
game as for boiling, and coverit all over 
with thin slices of bacon. Wrap round 
it beet-leaves, then in veal caul, and put 
it into a large saucepan with three pints 
of water, a glass of Madeira, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and 
half a lemon. Stew it till it is quite 
tender ; then take it up and skim off the 
fat; thicken the gravy with flour and 
butter, and strain it through a hair sieve; 
putto it a pint of oysters and atea-cupful 
of thick cream. Keep shaking your 
tossing-pan over the fire, and when it 
has simmered a little, serve up your 
fowls with the bacon, beet-leaves, and 
eaul still un, and pour the sauce hot over 
it. Garnish with barberries, or red 
beet-root. 

Fow.d la Braize.—Truss a fowl the 
same as for boiling, season the inside 
with pepper and salt 5; put at the bottom 


of the vessel a slice or two of beef, lay | 


over the fowl some thin slices of lean 
bacon, and bits of veal, an onion stuck 


( 248 ) 


If for. 





FOW 


with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
carrot, half alemon, pepper and salt; set 


this over a slow fire for ten minutes, then — 
put ta it about three pints of beef broth a 
or warm water; warm aglassofMadeira 
and pour in; stew this till the fowl is _ 


tender, strain the gravy through a piecé 


of dimity, the rough side upwards, first — 


dipped in cold water; mix a little flour 


with it, boil it up, and serve it over the © 


fowl. Oysters are a great addition. 


Fowts Broiled. —Take a large fowl, 7 


and cutit into four quarters, put them 
ona bird-spit, and tie that on another 
spit, and half roast; or half roast the 
whole fowl, and finish either on the grid- 
iron, by which means it will be less dry 
than if done wholly on the gridiron. If 
you half roast the fowl whole, it must be 
split down the back afterwards, then pep- 
pered, salted, and broiled. 

Fow. Brotled.—tplit them down the 
back, well salt and pepper them; then 
broil them. Serve with mushroom 
sauce. 

Fowt a@ Campine, with raw Onions.— 
Truss a fowl with the legs outward, and 
roast it. It must be of a good colvuur. 
When done, slit the breast, cut raw 


onions in slices, which you should intre- 


duce into the slits you have made, and 
send it to table with a brown pozvrade 
highly seasoned, and very hot. 

Fowt, Capilotade of.*—Take the re- 
mains of a ready dressed fowl, and put 
them into a stewpan; then do up some 
parsley, shalots, and four mushrooms, 
all shred small, in a little butter; as soon 
as the latter becomes liquid, add four 
ladlesful of espagnole, and two of con- 
sommé, reduce, and skim it; pour it on 
your fowl, set it on the fire to simmer for 
a quarter uf an hour, before you send it 
to table. 

Fow.u (cold) to Dress.—-Cut a fowl into 
quarters, and beat up one or two eggs$ 
grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little 
sauce, some chopped parsley, and a few 
bread crumbs; beat them well together, 
and dip the fowl into this mixture; then 
fry them ofa fine light brown; prepare a 
little good gravy, thickened with a little 
flour, and put in a spoonful of ketchup: 
lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour the 
gravy over it; you may garnish with 
Jemon or a few mushrooms. 

Fowts, Collops of.*—Take some puff 
paste, roll it out very thin, and lay on 
half of it, at intervals, some small pieces 
of guenelie farce, moisten the paste round 
each portion, and fo!d the remainder over 
it, press it down, and then either witha 
paste-cutter, or a knife, cut in semicir- 
cles; fry them, and serve with bunches 
of fried parsley. 








FOW 


. Fowt Cream.*—Pound the white parts 
of some roasted fowls, with a quarter of 
a pound of sweet almonds; when it be- 
comes a fine paste, dilute it with half a 

int of cream; strain, and then cook it 
in the bacn marie. 

Fowt @ la Créme.—This dish is made 
of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed; 
you take off the breast and fleshy part of 
the fowl, by cutting itsquare all through, 
with a little bread toasted, and dipped in 
butter, stop the aperture; then fill the 

fowl with farce a la créme; then make 
a kind of wall round the fowl with but- 
tered paper, cover the same with bacon, 
to prevent the fowl from getting too 
much colour. Ifthis dish is to be placed 
on the flanks of the table in the second 
course, some of the same farce may be 
served on toasts cut in the shape of 
hearts or lozenges, which are called 
témvins. These are to be baked in the 
oven, the same as the fowls, and the fat 
to be well drained: serve with a thin 
espagnole sauce, or velouté. The toast 
must be fried before the farce is put over 
its 

Fowt, Cromasquis of.—This dish is pre- 
pared in the same manner, as the cro- 
eae of fowls; but each ball is wrapped 
n thin slices of cold calf’s udder. Fry 
them, and serve on fried parsley. 

Fowt, Croquettes of.*—Take all the 
meat from a fat chicken, remove the 
sinews, and skin, mince it very small; 
put into a saucepan two ladlesful of 
velouté ; when well reduced, add the yolks 
of four eggs, then the mince; mix them to- 
gether, and then take it from the fire; 
make it into balls the size of walnuts, 
which, (when cold), roll in bread crumbs, 
give them rather a long than round form, 
dip them in egg, bread them a second 
time, and fry them in hot frz‘ure. 

_ Fowts Davenport Fashien.—Let young 
fowls hang a night; take the livers, 
hearts, and most tender parts of the 
izzards, shred very small, with half a 
handful of young clary; an anchovy to 
each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four 
eggs, boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and 
mace, according to taste. Stuff the fowls 
with this, and sew up the vents and necks 
quite close, to prevent the water from 
getting in; boil them in salt and water, 
till almost done; then drain them, and 
put them into a stewpan, with asufficient 
uantity of butter to brown them. Serve 
igi with melted butter, and a spoonful 
of any catsup you please, in the dish. 
Fow.t @ /a Dreux.—The fowl. being 
trussed, if you wish to give additional 
firmness to the skin and flesh, have some 
boiling water ready, then lay hold of the 
fowl by the saddle, dip the breast in the 


( 249 ) 


FOW 


water, and then dip it in cold water; 
when the fowl is quite cold, cut some ham 
into long squares; lard the breast of the 
fowl in imitation of a draft-board, put it 
into a stewpan, trimmed all round with 
fat bacon, and moisten with pocle, there 
must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow 
one under it, as it will be sufficiently 
done in three quarters of an hour at the 
most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, 
glaze of a good colour, and serve with @ 
sauce @ l’allemande. 


Fowt (fillets of ) en Chemise.*—Take 


as many fillets of fowl] as you may require, 
and cut them into thin slices; make a 
good farce, in which roll each of the slices, 
so that they may be completely wrapped 
in; enclose these little fillets each in a 
piece of caul, place them en a skewer, 
and roast them. Serve them with veal 
gravy, or fowl consommé. 

Fow1., (fillets of ) Larded.*—Take the 
fillets from three fine fowls, leaving on 
the ends ef the pinions, trim, and lard 
them; stick the end of the pinion under- 
neath each, to give them a better form 5 
butter a stewpan, put into it three ladles- 
ful ofjelly,on which place your fillets,with 
a piece of buttered paper; set the stew- 
pan on the fire, and let it boil, but not 
too fast; cover the lid with fire, ard if in 
three quarters of an hour your jelly be 
not sufficiently reduced, make a better 
fire, and let it stand a quarter ofan hour 
longer. Dip the larded side of your fil- 
lets into the jelly, and serve them with 
an espagnole travaillé underneath : to 
which may be added the jelly your fillets 
were cocked in. 

Fowt Ferced.—Take a large fowl, pick 
it clean, cut it down the back, draw it, 
then take off the skin whole, cut the flesh 
from the bone, and chop it up with halfa 
pint of oysters, an ounce of beef merrow, 
and a little pepper and salt, mix it up 
with cream, lay the meat onthe bones, 
draw the skin over it and sew up the 
back, cut large thin slices of bacon, lay 
them over the breast of the fowl, and tie 
the bacon on with packthread. It will 
take an hour to roast before a moderate 
fire. Make a good brown yravy sauce, 
pour it in the dish, take the bacon off, 
lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. 
Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or 
pickles. ‘ 

Fown en Fricandeau.—Cut a fowl in 
two, and bone it thoroughly, make a 
forcemeat of a sweetbread, cut into large 
dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mush- 
rooms, or both, chopped parsley, shalots, 
and seraped bacon, mixed with the yolke 
of three eggs, pepper, and salt; fill the 
fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give 
it a fry in butter for a moment; then 








FOW 


broth, with a few slices of veal and bacun : 
when done, sift and skim the sauce, reduce 
it to acaramel, and ylaze the fow! with 
it. Serve with whatever sauce you think 
proper. 

Fow.t Fried, & l Indienne.—Slice some 
onions and fry them in lard till they be- 
eome of a nice brown colour, adding a 
pinch of flour ; when the onions are sut- 
ficiently done, take them out with the 
skimmer, and keep them hot. Have 
ready a fowl cut up as for fricassee, and 
the pieces blanched in boiling water. Put 
the pieces of fowl inthe lardin which the 
onions were fried, .till they also become 
of a nice colour; then pour upon them 
some stock, addingsalt, allspice, Cayenne 
pepper, and a little turmeric or Indian 
saffron; when the fowl is done enough, 
put in the fried onions; boil the whole 
for two or three minutes, and serve, send- 
ing up, separately, a dish of rice, &@ la 
Créole. 

Fow. with the Flavour of Game.— 
Take a rabbit that has been kept a long 
time, and cut the meat of it into thin 
slices, lay them on a dish, and season 
them with pepper and salt, chopped par- 
sley, chibbol, shalots, and a little sweet 
oil; splita fowl at the back, bone it all 
to the legs and wings, stuff it with this, 
then sew it up, and give it its natural 
form; braize it with slices of veal and 
ham, covered over with slices of bacon ; 
soak it about a quarter ofan hour; then 
add a glass of white wine, a little broth, 
a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and 
salt. When done, sift and skim the 
sauce} adda little cullis, and serve it 
over the fowl. . 

Fowt, Glazed. — This is brazed and 
glazed in the same way as Fowl en Fri- 
eandeau, only with this difference, that 
itis done without stuffing. Serve with 
its own sauce, or any other, if you like 
it better. 

Fow. wth its own Gravy.—Truss a 
fowl the same as for boiling, lard it 
guite through with bacon, ham, and par- 
sley; put it in a pan with a little butter, 
two or three slices of peeled lemon, a 
bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, 
sliced onions, carrots, pepper, salt, a 
little stuck, and a glass of white wire; 
stew them gently till they are done; 
skim and strain the sauce, and serve it 
with the fowl. 

Fowu (Guinea and Pea).—They eat 
much the same ag pheasants. They 
should be dressed in the same manner, 
except when larded; then, of course, they 
require no bacon to be laid over them. 

ow, Hashed.—Cut it into pieces, and 
put it into some gravy with a little cream, 


( 250 ) 


lard it like a fricandeau; braise it in | 


FOW 


catsup, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, 
a few oysters and their liquor, a bit of 
butter mixed with flour ; keep it stirring 
until the butter is melted, lay sippets in 
a dish, putin the hash and serve. __ 3 
Fowt as a Hedge-hog.—Make a fare 
with the liver Siopaak. scraped bacon, 


| parsley, shalots, pepper and salt, and 


stuff a fowl with it; truss it the same as 
for roasting, give it a few turns over the 
fire in butter; then lard it close with 
slices of ham and bits of truffles, to stick 
pretty far out; roast it, basting often 
with good oil. Serve with consommé and 
cullis sauce, and a little juice of lemon. 

Fowt (Hodge-podge of).—Cut a fowl 
into quarters, and braize it with pickled 
pork; make a good ragofit with small 
onions, all sorts of roots cut differently, 
and the braized pork ; intermix all well 
on the dish, and serve with a thick cullis 
sauce. You may put to it any sort of 
meat you choose, taking care that the 
hardest kind is boiled proportionably. 

Fowt (Legs of } upon Ashes.—Garnish 
a stewpan with slices of veal, and a good 
slice of ham; put the legs of fowls upon 
these, being first larded, through and 
through, with well seasoned lardons; add 
a tea-spoonful of brandy, and cover the 
whole with slices of bacon, and over that, 
white paper; simmer both, under and 
over, they will furnish sufficient sauce, 
which must be properly sifted ; but if not 
a sufficient quantity, add a little cullis, 
and one squeeze of lemon. , 

Fowt (Legs of), Garnished. —Braize 
four legs of fowis, with a dozen of small 
onions, broth, a few slices of bacon, a 
bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, thyme, 
and bay-leaves: when it is half done, 
add an eel, cut in pieces, six cray fish, 
half a glass of white wine, pepper and 
salt; let it braize slowly: when all is 
done, take the bottom of the braize, sift, 
and skim it very clean from fat; add a 
few spoonsful of cullis, (two or three), 
and reduce it to the consistence of a 
sauce ; intermix the fowl! and other things 
properly on the dish, with the onions, 
and a tew bits of fried bread; pour the 
sauce over all, with a lemon squeeze. 

Fow. (Legs of) au Prince.—Soak a 
few anchovies and bits of fresh ham, cut 
as for larding, and when you think they 
have lost their saltness, drain them; 
lard as many legs of fowl as will make 
a good sized dish, marinade them some 
time, with a glass of white wine, a lemon 
cut into slices, pepper and salt; make a 
stuffing with butter, chopped parsley, 
shalots and capers; put each leg intoa 
bit of puff-paste, together with the mari- 
nade, mixed with the stuffing ; bake them 
in a slow oven; and when done, take off 





FOW 


the puff-paste, and serve with a good 
sauce. 

Fow.t (to marinade).— Take a large 
fowl, and with your finger raise the skin 
from the breast bone. Cut a veal sweet- 
bread very small, a few oysters, a few 
mushrooms, an anchovy, some pepper, 
a little nutmeg, some lemon-peel, and a 
small! portion of thyme. Chop all small, 
and mix it together with the yolk of an 
egg 5 stuff it in between the skin and the 
flesh, being very careful not to break the 
_ skin, and then fill the body of the fowl 
with oysters. Then lard the breast of 
the fowl with bacon ; cover it with paper, 
and roast it. Make a good gravy. Gar- 
nish with lemon, and send it to table. 

Fowt (Moor or Moor Game).— Moor 

fowl should be treated the same as par- 
tridges ; sometimes a bit of bread, fried 
brown in butter, is served under them. 
- Fowt (Moor), with Red Cabbage. — 
Truss the moor game as for boiling; 
put them on with a little soup; stew 
them for half an hour; cut a stock of red 
cabbage in four quarters, put it to the 
moor fowl; season with white pepper 
and salt, a small bit of butter rolled in 
flour, and a glass of red wine. Lift out 
the cabbage, and arrange it neatly in the 
dish, the moor fowl on it. Pour the 
sauce over them, and garnish with small 
slices of fried bacon. 

Fowt (Moor, or Moor Game), to Pot. 
—Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely; 
then dry them; and well season them 
inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, 
mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Put 
them in as smalla pot as will hold them; 
cover them with butter, and bake them 
in a very slow oven. When they are 
cold, take off the butter ; dry them from 
the gravy, and put one bird into each 
pot; they should just fit. Add-as much 
more butter as will cover them, being 
very careful that it does not oil. The 
best method ef warming it is by putting 
it in a basin, and setting the basin in hot 
water. 

Fowt with Olives.—Truss and dress a 
fowl] the sameas Fow/ a la Dreux. Then 
take some olives, which should be 
blanched till they are no longer briny. 
Next boil them in a thin Kspagnole. 
Skim the sauce, and add a littie lemon- 
juice, and pour it under the fowl. Serve 
with some stuffed olives, without stones. 
Turn the olives with a knife, so as to 
take out the stones, and leave the olives 
whole. p j 

Fowt (Panada of).— Boil a bit of 
crumb of bread in some good broth, add 
- to it the breast of a couple of fowls, 

-roasted, and very finely pounded; sift 
all together in a cloth, with strong 


( 251 ) FOW 


consistence you would have it. 
Fowts with Rice, called Pillace.—Boil 


pressing, and add broth according to the 


|a pint of rice in as much water as will 


cover it, with black pepper, a few blades 
of mace, and half a dozen cloves, tied up 
in a bit of cloth; when the rice is tender, 
take out the spice; stir in a piece of bute 
ter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon; 
lay them in the dish, cover them with 
the rice: lay round the dish, and upon 
the rice, hard eggs, cut in halves, quar- 
ters, and lengthways, with onions, first 
boiled, and then fried. 

Fowt (Pudding of) @ la Reine.—This 
dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast 
and fleshy parts of several fowls, and cut 
them into small dice, all of an equal size. 
Throw these dice into a reduction of 
velouté, and season them well; then put 
them into a dish that they may cool. 
When this preparation is quite cold, cut 
it into two equal parts, which you 
must make into puddings of a long shapey 
the size of the dish; roll them in 
crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, 
and roll them again in bread. You must 
be careful that the extremities are well 
eovered with the crumbs, otherwise they 
will break in the frying-pan. When 
they are fried to a good colour, drain 
them, wipe off the grease with a clean 
towel, and serve with a thin velouté, or 
green parsley fried between. 

Fowt (Purée of).* — Take all the 
white part of three cold roast fowls, and 
pound it; then add about an ounce of 
cali’s udder, a little salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg; pound them all together until 
well mixed. Dissolve two spoonsful of 
white jelly or consommé, and three of 
béchamelle or velouté ; and when liquid, 
add to it the pounded meat; stir them 
together over the fire, but do not let it 
boil 3 strain it into another vessel, and 
keep it hot in the bazn-marie: serve it 
with bread in the usual manner. 

Fowts (Quenelles of).* — Take the 
breasts of iour fowls, and scrape the 
meat off with a knife; pound it well, 
and pass it through a quenelle sieve into 
a plate: soak the crumb of a French 
roll in milk till quite soft, then put it 
into a cloth to press out all the moisture, 
and pound as much of that as you have 
meat; then take an equal quantity of 
butter, and beat it up with the bread, 
until the butter cannot be distinguished, 
when the fowl should be added, and alk 
three ingredients pounded together ; to 
this put four yolks of eggs, or more if 
necessary, salt, pepper, and nutmeg5 
when the whole is well pounded, whip 
the whites of two eggs, and mix them 
in lightly; poach a little of it to try if 








FOW. 
it be sufficiently seasoned, and then set 
it aside for use. 

Fow. ( Quenelles of ).*—Take a dessert 
spoontul of farce @ guenelles, and smooth 
it with the blade of a knife, in warm 
water; lay iton a buttered saucepan-lid, 
and when you have done as many as you 
wish to have, put them gently into boil- 
ing water, with a little salt in it, and set 
them by the side of the stove that they 
may not boil too fast; turn them lightly 
with the back of a spoon, and when they 
begin to swell, drain them on a cloth; 
dish, and pour over them a reduced fowl 
consommeé. 

Fowts Roasted.—Well pepper and salt 
the fowls before you spit them}; roast 
them before a clear fire; froth them up 
when nearly done, by sprinkling them 
over with flour and salt, and basting them 
with butter. When done, be careful in 
taking out the skewers. Serve them with 
very good clear gravy in the dish, and 
bread or egg sauce in a boat. 

Fowt Roasted with Chesnuts.—Roast 
some chesnuts very carefully, so that 
they may not be burnt, then take off the 
skins, and peel them. ‘Take about a 
dozen of them, cut them small, and 
bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the 
liver of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about 
a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, 
and pound it. Then mix them all to- 
gether. with a good quantity of chopped 
parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg. When these are all 
well mixed together, put it into your 
fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing 
this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by 
the Jegs to roast, with a string, and then 
baste it with butter. For sauce, take the 
rest of the chesnuts, peel and skin them, 
put them into some good gravy, witha 
little white wine ; and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. Then 
place your fowl in the dish; pour in the 

- sauce; garnish with lemon, and serve. 
' Fowus Roasted to eat like Pheasant.— 


a ‘They must be full grown ; leave the heads 


on; truss them like pheasants; lard 
them with bacon, and roast them. Serve 


them with gravy and bread sauce. 


 Fow.u Roasted with a Ragott of Oys- 
_ters.—Make a forcemeat, to which add 
‘a dozen oysters; stuff the craw; cover 
the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, 
then asheet of paper; roast it; take some 
- cullis, or good gravy, put in some oys- 
ters, with their liquor strained, a little 
mushroom- powder, or catsup, lemon- 
juice, thicken it with flour; add cayenne 
and salt; boil it up: when the fowl is 
roasted, take off the bacon, and serve the 
sauce in the dish. 
Fowu (Salad of ).*—Cut up a couple 


( 252 ) 


FOW | 


of cold roasted fowls; take off the 
skin, and trim them; lay them in a deep 
dish, with salt, oil, and vinegar; when 
they have soaked in this a short time, 
place the fowl on a dish, round which 


lay some lettuces, well washed and cut — 
in quarters, hard eggs also, quartered, 


fillets of anchovies, gherkins, eapers, an 


a ravigotte.. Pour the dressing over the — 


whole, and serve. | : 


Fow ts 7x the Form of a large Sausage. — 


—Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten 
the meat with a roller; put some force- 
meat upon each half, made of breast of 
fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in 


cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, 


shalots, salt, and fine spices, mixed with 
the yolks of three eggs; tie up the pieces 
in the form of large sausages, wrap them 
in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of 
linen cloth; braze them in broth, with a 
glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions 
and carrots. -When they are done, untie 
the cloth, take off the bacon; squeeze 
them gently between a cloth, to press 
out the fat; and serve with what sauce 
you chocse. 

Fow. (Souflé of ).*— Pound the fillets 
of four roasted fowls, about two ounces 


of calf’s udder, salt, and pepper 3 whien. 


these are well beaten, put them intoa 


stewpan, with four ladlesful of velowté ;. 


make it quite hot, (but not to boil), and 
then pass it through a sieve into a basin 3 


add to it the yolks of five eggs, and the 


whites of two, whipped as for biscuits. 
Cement fried bread round the edge ofa 
dish; pour in the souwglé, smooth the 
surface, and put it into an oven; as soon 
as it.has risen properly, and is firm to 
the touch, take it out, and serve it in- 
stantly. 
Fowx Stewed.—Truss a fow] the same 
as for boiling; put it into a stewpan, 
with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, 
shalot, and mushrooms; stew itona slow 
fire about a quarter of an horr, turning 
it often. Then put it into another stew- 


‘pan, with slices of veal and ham, and all 


the first seasoning. Cover it with slices. 
of bacon ; stew it gently for a quarter ofan 
hour longer, then add a little whoie pep- 
per, and some salt, a little stock, and 
some white wine, and finish it on a 
slow fire; then skim and strain the 
braise.. When done, squeeze in the juice 
of a lemon ; wipe the fowl clean from the 
fat, and serve. 4s) CBRE 

Fowi Stewed.——Place four clean 
skewers at the bottom of a steperene 
place the fowl upon them. Pant in a 
quart of gravy, a bunch of celery, cut 
small, and washed very clean, and two or 
three blades of mace. Let it stew 























FOW 


‘gently till there remains onlyjust suffi- 
cient for sauce; then add a good piece of 
butter rolhed in flour, two spoonsful of 
‘red wine, the same quantity of catsup, 
-anda sufficient quantity of pepper and 
‘salt to season it. Place the fowl ona 
dish, and serve the sauce over it. 

Fow. Stuffed with Black Pudding Pre- 

‘paration.—F ry two fine chopped onions 
in butter till they are almost done; then 
‘add chopped parsley, -shalots, a little 
‘pounded coriander seed, pepper and salt, 
alf a pound of tripe or marrow, the 
‘yolks of four raw eggs, and half a pint of 
‘hog’s blood; thicken it over the fire 
‘without boiling ; take out the breast-bone 
of a fowl, and stuffit with this prepara- 
tion ; sew it up, and roast it with bacon 
and paper tied over it; serve with cullis 
-and consommé for sauce. 

Fowxis Stuffed or Forced.—Make a 
forcemeat with half a pound of beef-suet, 
as much crumb of bread grated fine, the 

-meat of a fowl cut very small; beat 
‘these ina mortar, and a pound of veal 
‘with them, some truffles, morels and 
‘mushrooms cut small, a few sweet herbs 
and parsley shred fine, some grated nut- 
‘meg, pepper, sa!t, and lemon-peel grated} 
-bone your fowls, fill them with the force- 
meat, and roast them. Serve with good 
‘gravy, with truffles and morels. The 
fowls may be larded if you choose. 

Fowi ad la Tartare.—Take a fine fowl, 

turn in the Jegs as usual, then cut it in 
‘two, take the bones off from the back, 
-cut the breast off, break those of the legs, 
flatten the fowl with the back of your 
knife, and season it with salt and pepper; 
then dip it in clarified butter, and next 
into bread-crumbs, equally on all sides. 
“Next broil it up to a fine colour, on a 
slow fire, that it may be done thoroughly. 
Send it up with a brown Jtakenne. 
‘Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if 
it is well done; it requires an hour, or at 
least three quarters, to be done properly. 

Fown with Trufies.—Truss a large 
fowlas for boiling, put truffles into the 
inside well stewed, and prepared; then 
put it on the spit, witha slice of fat ba- 
‘con on the breast, and paper tied over 
that ; roastit well, set it on the dish, 
garnish it with truffles in sauce @ l’espag- 
nole, or brown sance, and serve. 

Fowt (/Wild).—The flavour of wild 
fowl is preserved better by not stuffing 
them; put into each, pepper, salt, anda 
bit of butter. 

Wild fowl do not require so much 
dressing as tame; they should be done 
of a fine colour, and nicely frothed. A 
rich brown gravy should be served in 
the dish, and when the breast is cut into 

slices, before it is taken fromthe bone, 


( 253 ) 


FOW 


it will be much improved by a squeeze 


oflemon, some salt and pepper. 

If you wish to take off the fishy smell 
which these birds frequently have, put 
an onion, salt, and hot water into the 
dripping pan, and for the first ten mi- 
nutes baste them with this; then re- 
move the pan, and keep constantly bast- 
ing with batter. ON 

Fow. (Wild) Pie—The fowl should 
be trussed like a duck for a pie (or for 
any thing else) larded with anchovies, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet 
herbs; put a good quantity of butter 
into the pie, and finish the same as all 
others. . ae 

Fowu (Wings of) Larded.*—Take as 
many wings of fowl as you may require, 
lard, and put them into a saucepan, with 
a Slice of veal, a little streaked bacon, 
and sweet herbs; when sufficiently done, 
lay them in a dish on any vegetable you 
please (previously boiling them in good 
broth), and serve them as a side dish. 

There are various other ways of send- 
ing the wings of fowl to table; but they 
are generally cooked as above, or accord- 
ing to the taste and fancy ; only two.or 
ears recipes are, therefore, introduced 

ere. 

FKowus (Wings of ) au pain de beurre.* 
—Boil the wings in broth, with some 
onions, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, when 
done and quite cold, wrap each wing in 
alarge slice of butter, which must be 
pretty firm ; if it should be soft, work a 
proper quantity of flour into it, to bring 
it to the right consistence ; whenall the 
wings are covered, lay one over the 
other, press the whole together lightly, 
80 that it only forms one piece; then dip 
your hands in flour, that in smoothing 
this piece the butter may not adhereto . 
them; then set itin a cool place for half 
an hour. Inthe meanwhile prepare ‘a 
quantity of bread-crumbs well dried in 
the oven, and having fastened the but- 
tered wings toa spit, put them before a 
slow fire, take a handful of the bread- 
crumbs, and when the butter begins to 
melt, shake them over it, and continue 
this operation till the butter has taken 
up all the crumbs, and no longer runs, 
when it may be put nearer the ‘fire to 
finish the cooking ; take care to keep the 
whole of aclear equal brown. — ~ 

Fowt (Wings.of) a la Provengale.*— 
Lard the wings with small pieces of an- 
chovies, instead of bacon, and cook them 
ina closely covered saucepan, with some 
streaky bacon, artichoke bottoms, aspa- 
ragus tops, and garlic, a sufficient quar~ 
tity of broth, and seasoned with salt, 
nutmeg, ginger and pepper. When quite 
gala a pe out the wings, and lay them 


FRA 


ina dish; add alittle veal gravy to the 
liquor, reduce it to the proper consis- 
tence, and pour it very hot over the 

wings. The garlic, ginger, and pepper 
may be omitted at pleasure. | 

Fowu (Wings of ) en Redingote.*— 
Take the number of wings you intend 

. to. use, and having trimmed, wrap each 
in a thin slice of bacon, taking care that 
the whole of the wing is covered; tie 

» them round, and put them into a sauce- 
pan, with some broth, parsley, a bay-leaf, 
salt, and pepper. When done, take 
them out and let them drain ; then cover 
them with bread-crumbs, and broil them 

Over a clear slow fire ; take off the strings, 

. dish, and serve them with any sauce you 
think proper. 

FRANGIPANE.*—Take a saucepan, 

_ and put into it five spoonsful of flour, five 

. eggs, a pint of milk, an ounce of butter 
and a little salt; set it on the fire, stir- 

»¥ing constantly until it has boiled ten 

' minutes, taking great care that it does 

- hot burn; then pour it intoa basin, and 

- let it cool. Take a few almonds, (to every 
SIX Sweet put one bitter), bruise them 

- and some macaroons, and when reduced 

. to powder, mix them with a little crisped 
orange-flower (also in powder), and a 

‘sufficient quantity of powder-sugar to 

- sweeten it ; add these to the above pre- 
paration, and stir them in well with a 
wooden spoon. If your frangipane be too 

. thick, add another egg or two, and then 
make whatever use of it you may de- 
sire. 

You may, if you think proper, substi- 

_ tute pistachios for the sweet almonds, in 
which case a little spinach essence must 
be added to colour it, the macaroons 

‘and orange-flowers omitted, and three 
bitter almonds only used. 

Franerpane, Souflé of.*—Put six des- 
sert spoonsful of water into a saucepan, 
with four yolks and ene whole egg, a pint 
ofcream, and an ounce of butter}; put 
them on the fire, and stir constantly till 

done, when it may be taken off and set 
to coc] : mix together six dessert spoons- 
ful of powder-sugar, two bitter and three 
‘Sweet macaroons, some dried biscuits, 

_and crisped orange-flowers all crushed to 

“powder, add these to_the above prepara- 

4ion, stir it well, and, if necessary, add 
more yolks of eggs; whip the whites of 

-five eggs as for biscuits, put them to the 

-vest, and then pour the whole into a sil- 
ver dish, set itin a gentle oven, and 
serve it the instant it is done, 

Franeipane Jartlets of.*— Line some 

-tartlet moulds with puff-paste, fill them 
up with the frangipane, to which add a 

- small quantity of chawa# paste, dorez, and 


( 254 ) 


FRI 


lay on each a band of the puff-paste 
twisted in the form of a snail; bake them 
in a hot oven, and glaze them white. 
Franaipane, Jourte of.*—Take some 
puff-paste, and having rolled it out tothe 
proper thickness, cut it to the size and 
shape you may desire}; roll out the re- 
mainder of the paste to a band sufficiently 
long to surround it, and about an inch 
anda half wide; place this round the 
under crust, first moistening the edges 
that they may adhere properly; put 
frangipane (see that article) into this, 
ornament it with the paste according to 
your fancy, dorez the edges, bake itin a 
1ot oven; when nearly done, sprinkle 
sugar over, and glaze it; serve it either 
hot or cold. Faso 
FRICASSEE Brown.* — Take two or 
three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, 
and stew them in gravy made of beef, 
some whole pepper, two shalots, one or 
two anchovies, a bit of horse-radish, and 
a little sweet marjoram powdered small. 
Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an 
hour, then take them out of the gravy, 
strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard 
or butter; add a glass of claret; you 
may fry some forcemeat balls, made 
with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, 
and a little parsley shred small, some 
nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread 
crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix 
these all together, make them up into 
balls, dip themin the yolk of egg, roll 
them in flour, then fry them, and gar- 
nish your dish with them, with fried 
parsley, and sliced lemon. 
FricasseEe, Vhite.*—Cut a couple of 
rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in 
warm water to cleanse them from the 
blood ; then lay them ina cloth todry ; 
put them intoa stewpan with milk an 
water, and let them stew till they are 
tender, and then take a clean pan, and 
put into it half a pint of cream, and a 
quarter of a pound of butter; stir them 
well together till the butter is melted; 
be careful to keep it constantly stirring, 
or it will be greasy; putin the rabbits 
take a little dried mace, a little pounde 
nutmeg, and a few mushrooms; shake 
them together for a few minutes, and 
then put it to the rabbits. You may add 
white wine if you choose. 
FRITTERS, — Make them of any of 
the batters directed for pancakes, by 
dropping a small quantity into the pan 
or make the plainer sort, and put pared 
apples sliced and cored in the batter, and 
fry some Of it with each slice. Currants or 
sliced lemon, as thin as possible, are 
very nice. 
Frirrers.—Fritters should be sent to 





FRI 


table served upon a folded napkin in the 
ish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe 
fruit, may be made into fritters. 
Fritters @ 1 Anglo-Francaise.* — 
Take a marrow pudding, and when nearly 
cold, cut it into thin slices, and then cut 
them again into pieces two inches long, 
by three quarters of an inch wide, dip 
them into batter, and fry them in the 
usual manner; when drained, glaze 
them with fine sugar, and serve them 
very hot. 

The batter for the above fritters is 
made as follows :—Put a glass and a half 
of water, a grain of salt, and two ounces 
of fresh butter into a saucepan; when it 
boils stir in a sufficient quantity of flour 
to make it arather firm batter, keep it 
stirring three minutes, then pour it into 
another vessel. 

Fritters aw Blanc.*—Mix together a 
handful of rice-flonr and some milk, set 
them on the fire, stirring constantly, add 
a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and 
orange-flowers ; when it has become of 
a proper consistence, take it from the 
fire ; as soon as it is cold, roll it into balls 
about the size ofa nut, dip them in bat- 
ter and fry them. 

Fritters Blondin.*—Put some butter 
into a saucepan, and when it is melted 
add to it aglass of milk, and a pinch 
of salt, keep it onthe fire till it boils; 
then mix in a sufficient quantity of flour 
to make it into a consistent paste, which 
will not stick to the fingers; spread it on 
a table, roll it out to the thickness you 
may require, cut itin round, oval, or any 
other formed pieces you maythink proper, 
and fry them of a nice colour, in the best 
oil ; sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. 

Fritters (French) of Brandy Frutts* 
—Take a dozen apricots (or other fruits) 

reserved in brandy, drain, and cut them 
in half: then wrap them in wafers cut 
round and previously moistened, dip 
them in the same kind of batter as that 
used for fritters @ 7’ Anglo-Franeaise, and 
fry them; sprinkle them with sugar, and 
serve. : 

Fritters @ la Cote.* — Soak in 
brandy some leaves and the young and 
tender shoots of the vine, dip them in a 
batter made of milk, yolks of eggs, and 
fiour, fry them in boiling oil, sprinkle 
them with sugar. ‘ : 

Elder flowers are made into fritters in 
the same manner. 

Fritters & la Dauphine.*—Take a 
pound of brioche paste,.and roll it out as 
thin as possible, to the form of a long 
square ; on part of this lay small quan- 
tities of apricot marmalade at intervals, 
slightly wet the paste round each piece 


( 255 ) 


FRI 


of preserve, and lay over the plain part 
of the paste soas tocover the other com- 
pletely, press it down lightly that the 
marmaJade may not escape in the cook- 
ing, and cut out your fritters with a cir- ° 
cular paste-cutter of two inches in dia- 
meter; flour them a little, and then lay - 
them in rather a hot friture, when the 
paste will swell them into little balls; as 
soon as they are ofa proper colour take 
them out, drain them on a napkin,. 
sprinkle them with fine sugar, and serve ' 
them. 

Fairtrers, Mignon.* — Put two good 
spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, and mix 
it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, - 
a little salt, two ounces of sugar, some 
lemon-peel grated, halfa tea-spoonful of: 
milk, and half a tea-spoonful of cream ; 
stir it over a slow fire, and, when done: 
and well thickened, spread the cream 
upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, 
and, when cold, cut it into bits witha 
paste-cutter, the same as for petits-patés ; 
dip each bit into a paste made with two 
spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, 
and a little salt, mixed with two eggs; 
fry the fritters, and serve, glazed with 
sugar and a salamander. 

Farrters, Royal.—Put a quart of new 
milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it 
begins to boil, pour in a pint of white 
wine; then take it off, and let it stand 
five or six minutes, skim off the curd,: 
and put it into a basin; beat it up weil 
with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg; 
then beat it with a whisk, and add flour 
sufficient to give it the proper consist- 
ence of batter. Put in some sugar and 
fry them quick. 

Farrrers, Soufiés.*—Mix the yolks of 
four eggs, half a spoonful of olive oil, and 
a pinch of salt, with half a pound of flour; 
whip the whites of the eggs to a snow, 
and add it tothe rest. When your paste 
is of the consistence of a thick batter, 
take a spoonful of it and roll itin flour ; 
make each ball about the size of a walnut, 
throw them into a hot friture of oil, and - 
fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and 
serve them hot. 

Fritrers, Souflés.*—Makesome flour 
and beer into a batter that will flowa 
little ; take a little of it out with a spoon, 
throw it into a frying-pan with boiling 
oil; the moment it rises, take it out, and 
proceed in the same way till all the bat- 
ter is used ; then sprinkle them with salt, 
and serve. 

Fritters, Spanish.—Cut the crumb 
of a French roll into lengths, about the. 
thickness of your finger, in whatever 
shape you please ; soak it in some cream, 
nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and 


Z 2 


FRU 


anegg. When thoroughly soaked, fry 
ofa. nice brown, and serve with butter, 
wine, and sugar sauce. | f 

Frirrers en Surprise.*—Take eight 
middling-sized apples, pare, and leave 
en the stalks; cut off about a fourth part 
of the stalk end of each apple, and scoop 
out the inside of each: piece, soas te form 
a sort of cup with alid; put them to soak 
fortwo hours in a glass of brandy with a 
little lemon-peel and cinnamon; at the 
end of that time take them out, drain, and 
fill each apple with apricot marmalade, 
or frangipane ; mix up a little flour and 
white of egg to cement the tops of the 
apples to the other parts; dip them in 
batter and fry them. 
a proper colour, glaze and serve them. 

-Frirrers, Syringed.*—Make a rather 
stiff batter with some flour, a glass of 
water, and half a pound of butter; then 
put it into a mortar and pound it, adding 
a small quantity of orange: flowers, 
grated lemon-peel, sweet and bitter al- 
monds (also pounded) ; dilute the whole 
with as many yolks of eggs as will 
make the batter flow easily. Pour this 
preparation into a syringe, the end of 
which is pierced according to your fancy; 
force the preparation through, and fry 
them in the usual manner. 

-FROTH toput on Cream, Custard, or 
Trifle-—Sweeten halfa pound of the pulp 
of damsons,. or any other sort: of scalded 
fruit; put.to it the whites of four eggs 
beaten, and beat the pulp with them till 
it will stand as high as you wish, and 
being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, 
it will take any form; it should be 
rough, fo imitate a rock. 

FRUIT Biscuczts.—To the pulp of any 
scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of 
sugar sifted, beat it two hours; then put 
it into little white paper forms; dry 
them in a cool oven, turn them the next 
day, and in twoor three days box them. 

Fruir (to prepare) for Brandy.*—Take 
the proposed quantity of fruit, gathered 
before they are perfectly ripe ; dry them 
carefully, prick and put them into cold 
water; when all in, set the vessel over a 
moderate fire, keeping the water, how- 
ever, constantly nearly boiling, until 
the fruit will give to the touch; then 
throw them, with great care, into cold 
water again; drain away this water, and 
add fresh; change the water twice more 
within a quarter of an hour, after which, 
drain them for the last time, and put 
them in bottles ; if any of the fruit is the 
least broken or bruised, it must be put 
aside, as it would spoil the rest. 

In the meanwhile, take a proper quan- 
tity of sugar (as a pound and a half for 
twenty-five peaches) ; clarify and boil it 


( 256 ) 


When they are of 


FRU 


. to: la nappe ; measure, and. put double its 


uantity of, good brandy 3 mix and pour 
them into a glazed pan; let them stand 
awhile, and then pour the mixture on 
the fruit. CevIEN sy 

Fruit, Candied.—It must first be pre=- — 
served, then dipped in warm water, dried 
with a cloth, and strewed allover with 
sifted sugar, and dried in a stove oroven,, 
turning as occasion requires. 

Fruit, Candied.—When the fruit is. 
preserved, dry it in a stove till thesyrup 
is: quite Out, dip it into syrup: boiled to 
candy height, and.dry it again. . 

Ali. dried and candied fruit must be 
kept in.a very dry place. 

Fayit (Dried). au Caramel.*—Cut a 
number of. osier twigs to about three: 
inches in length, and on; the end of each,, 
place a dry preserved fruit; then take a, 
small piece of butter, which must be per- 


fectly free from either salt. or water, as’ 


otherwise it will adhere to the marble: 
slab, on which it must be rubved with 
the palm of the hand all over. The pre- 
parations properly performed, take some. 
clarified. sugar, the quantity must be im 
proportion to the fruit, and boil it to. 
caramel; then take an osier twig in each 
hand, dip the fruit into the sugar, turn 
them round, several times. that the sugar’ 
may adhere on all sides. When the ea- 
ramel begins to cool, lay the fruit on the. 
buttered slab, and proceed in the same: 
way with the remainder of the fruit until 
as many-are done as are required ;, when. 
all are done and cold, take out the twigs, 
and wrap each fruit in paper, with a de-. 
vice as usual. 

As this operation cannot be performed. 
too quickly, it would be advisable to. 
have twoor more persons to. do them. 

Fruit to prepare for Children.—Putap- 
pies. sliced, or plums, currants, goose- 
berries, &e. into a stone jar, and sprinkle 
as much Lisbonsugar as necessary among 
them; place.the jar on a hot hearth, or 
in a saucepan of water, and let it remain. 
till the fruitis perfectly done. 

Slices of bread or rice may be stewed 
with the fruit, or the fruit may be eaten 
with slices of dry bread, or with rice,) 
plain boiled. 

Fruits (Four) Conserve of.*—Take a 
pound. of each of the following fruits :— 
Currants, strawberries, cherries, and 
raspberries, press the juice from them 
strain it, set it over a moderate fire till 
reduced to half the quantity. Dissolve 
twelve pounds of sugar, skim it well, and 
then boil it to cassé; take it from the 
fire, add the juice, and replace it; let it 
boil once only, then stir it tillthe sugar 
bubbles. Have your cases or moulds 
ready, and pour the conserve into them. 








FRU 


* Frurr in Jelly.—Have in readiness a 
plain mould, either long or round, about 
three inches deep; then have ready some 
mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom 
of the mould, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; let it be cold; then put in ripe 
peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit 
you please, preserved fruit, or China 
oranges cut into quarters, or whatever 
shape you choose; put in a little warm 
jelly, and letit stand till it is cold, to 
fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it 
will rise up; then fill the mould up with 
warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite 
cold, then turn it into a dish, and gar- 
nish it according to your own taste. 

Fruit (Preserved) Remarks on using. 
—Preserved fruits should not be baked 
long; those that have been preserved 
with their full proportion of sugar, re- 
quire no baking; the crust should be 
baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be 
afterwards added; or it may be put into 
a small dish or tart-pans, and the covers 
be baked ona tin cut out according to 
your taste. 
_ Fruit, Preserved ( Biscuits of ).—Take 
dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, 
verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a 
little orange-flower marmalade; pound 
them together, and sift in a sieve; then 
mix with it yolks of new laid eggs, and 
fine powder-sugar, until it comes to a 
supple paste, not too liquid; then bake 
them on paper ina moderate oven. _ 

Fruit (to preserve Green).—Take pip- 
pins, alge pears, plums, or peaches, 
whilethey are green ; put them in a pre- 
serving-pan,cover them with vine-leaves, 
and then with fine clear spring water ; 
put on the cover of the pan, set them 
over a very clear fire; when they begin 
to simmer, take them off the fire, and 
carefully with the slice take them out; 
peel and preserve them as other fruit. 
Fruits (fo Green, for Preserving or 
Pickling).--Take pippins, apricots, pears, 
plums, peaches, while green, for the 
first, or radish pods and French beans for 
the latter, and cucumbers for both pro- 
cesses, and put them, with vine-leaves 
under and over, into a block-tin pre- 
serving-pan, with spring water to cover 
them, and then put on the tin cover to 
exclude all air; set it on the side of a 
fire, and when they begin to simmer, 
take them off, pour off the water, and 
if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, 
and repeat the same.. Take them out 
carefully with a slice; they aré to be 
peeled, and then done according to the 
receipts for the several modes. 

Fruit to preserve for Tarts or Family 
Desserts.—Cherries, plums of all sorts, 


( 257 ) 


FRY 


and American apples; gather when ripe, 
and lay them in small jars that will hold 
a pound ; strew over each jar six ounces. 
of good loaf sugar pounded ; cover with 
two bladders each, separately tied down ; 
then put the jars up to the neck ina 
large stewpan of water, and let it boil 
gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit 
should be kept free from damp. 

Fruit Pudding, Baked.—Rub_ goose- 
berries, or any other fruit, through a hair 
sieve; and to halfa pint of the fine pulp, 
adda quarter ofa pound of Naples bis- 
cuits, three ounces of oiled fresh butter, 
half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, 
sugar according to taste, and six eggs. 
Beat all these ingredients together for 
ten minutes; then add slices of citron, 
and bake the mixture in a dish with puff 
paste round the rim. ‘ 

Fruit, Ripe (Tart of ).—Take either 
cherries, currants, apples, &c. and stew 
them till they are half done in a good 
syrup. with a little brandy mixed with 
it. When they are cold, line a dish with 
crisp tart paste; put the fruit into it, 
and round the edge a rim of puff-paste, 
two inches broad, and in the centre, upon 
the fruit, a small ornament cut. out of 
puff-paste. Put it to bake ina moder- 
ately heated oven. 

FRYING.—Frying, though one of the 
most common culinary occupations, is 
one of those that is very seldom properly 
attended to, and consequently rarely 
well performed. , 

The fire for frying should be kept sharp 
and clear—to keep the melted fat at a 
sufficiently high temperature, and with- 
out this precaution the fried substance 
cannot be browned. The meat is pre- 
pared in the same way as in broiling, by 
cutting it into chops or slices, of not 
more than half an ineh or three quarters 
in thickness. 

Beef suet, lard, oroil, being melted in 
a pan and brought tothe boiling point, 
or nearly so (which may be ascertained 
by putting into the fat a few sprigs of 
parsley, ora piece of bread, which, if 
they become crisp without acquiring a 
black colour, the fat is hot enough for 
frying}, the meat should be put in. It 
is not necessary that the meat should be 
wholly immersed in the boiling fat; if it 
be immersed in part it will be sufficient. 
When fiesh is the substance to be fried, 
the pieces, previously to their being put 
into the pan, are sometimes brushed 
over with eggs and crumbs of stale bread, 
flour, or any other farinaceous substance. 
Fish are scarcely ever sent to table with- 
out being done in this manner when fried. 
One of the best preparations for this pur- 


Z3 


GAL 


yovisie oatmeal, flour, or crumbs of stale 
read, made into a liquid paste with the 
yolks and whites of eggs. | ihe 
Fish is best fried in oil. 4 ys 
_Arich brown colour is communicated 
to the fried substance, by pressing it, 
when. nearly cooked, against the bottom 
of the pan. 


G. 


half a pound of leg of veal, a pound of fat 
bacon, and half a pound of ham, all ready 
dressed, and mince them as small as pos- 
sible; mix with these an ounce of spiced 
salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two des- 
sert spoonsful of sweet herbs, the same 
quantity of truffles, all blanched and 
shred small; when well mixed together, 
put this farce into a basin; then take a 
pound and a half of truffles, pare, and cut 
each truffle in four; choose a fine red 
calf’s tongue, take off the skin, cut 
it lengthwise into six strips: cut in the 
same manner a pound of raw ham, or 
fresh pork fat, raw. 

Pick, singe, and bone, a good sized fowl, 
lay it openon a napkin, cut away half the 
meat of the breast and legs, and put the 
pieces on those parts where the skin is 
most exposed, so that the whole may be 
the same thickness ; strew over it spiced 
salt, in the proportion of four drachms 
toa pound; spread over the whole half 
the farce prepared above, on that half the 
truffles, then the tongue and ham fat, 
taking care to vary the colour; season 
them lightly with the spiced salt; then 
lay half what remains of the farce, and 
on that the truffles, tongue, and ham, as 
before; cover the whole of these, with 
the remainder of the farce, and roll it 
up either as a ball or an egg; sew up 
the skin so that none of the stuffing may 
escape; and wrap it first in slices of 
bacon, and then in a fine cloth; tie the 
ends of the latter very tight; and that 
the form may be properly preserved, tie 
three strings round the body, but not 
tightly. Take a saucepan, line it with 
bacon, put in the galantine, put round it 
four onions, four carrots, a bunch of pars- 
ley and scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, 
four cloves, the bones of the fowl, two 
knuckles of veal, or two calf’s feet, a suf- 
ficient quantity of stock or fowl consommé, 
to cover the galantine, a glass of Madeira 
wine, and two dessert spoonsful of old 
brandy. Cover the whole of this with a 
piece of buttered paper, the exact shape 
and size of the saucepan, and set it on a 
fierce fire for a short time, after which let 
it simmer gently for three hours, then re- 


( 258 ). 








GAM. 


| move it, and when it has stood for an 
‘hour, take out. the galantine carefully, 
_} and place it breast aownwards on a deep — 


dish, and squeeze it a little, press out. 
_what moisture it may contain, put 2a 
saucepan lid on it, on which place eight 
or ten pounds weight, to make the galan- 
| tine rather wide than high. Strain the 
| jelly through a silk sieve, pus aside the 


gross parts,) and let it stand a quarter of 


an hour, then draw it, off, and clarify it. 


GALANTINE of Fow/lor Game.*—Take | away the cloth and bacon, trim it a little 


The galuntine being quite cold, take 


if necessary, and glaze it completely, 
Place it on a dish, and garnish it with the 


jelly, according to your fancy. 


All sorts of galantines whether of 
chickens, turkies, partridges, or any 
other kind of game or poultry, are done 
in this manner. it 

GALETS. * — Take three pints of 
flour, and heap it togethery making a 
hole in the middle, put into this hole one 
pound of fresh butter, one ounce of fine 
salt, and some water; knead and roll, 
flouring the table, to prevent the paste 
from adhering; roll it out to the thick- 
ness of an inch; brush it over with eg 
put it in the oven, and bake it of a goo 
colour. See 

GAME (to keep.) —Game may often be 
made fit for eating when it seems spoiled, 
by nicely cleaning it, and washing with 
vinegar and water. If you think birds 
will not keep, draw, crop, and pick them 

ken wash in two or three waters, an 
rub them with salt; have in readiness a 
large saucepan of boiling water, and 
plunge them into it one by one, drawing 
them up and down by the legs, so that 
the water may pass through them. Let 
them stay five or six minutes in, then 
hang them up in a-cold place ; when they 
are completely drained, well salt and 
pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash 
them before roasting. — ' a 

The most delicate birds, even grovse, 
may be preserved by these means; those 
birds that live by suction cannot be done 
in this manner, as they are never drawn, 
and it might so happen that the heat 
would make them worse, as the water 
could not pass through them. —_. x4 

Pieces of charcoal put about birds and 
meat, will preserve them from taint, and 
restore what is spoiling. ne 

Game, Chaud-froid of.* — Roast six 
parsoaiaeny take off the legs, wings, and 

reasts, remove all the skin, trim, and 
dry them well, then put them into a 
saucepan; put into another saucepan the 
remains and bones of the birds, a glass 
of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, 
a bay leaf, and five or six shalots; set this 
over a moderately heated stove, and 


Se a ok 


— ae ta ne 
Ne ll eae 


ae oe 





GAM 


when half reduced, add a ladleful of 
veal blond ; as soon asit boils set it on 
the corner of the stove for about an hour, 
skim it carefully, then strain it through 
@ napkin into another saucepan, with the 
addition of two ladlesful of clarified es- 
pagnole, when it boils, set it as hefore 
on the corner of the stove; in half an 
hour’s time, skim, and replace it over 
the stove, stirring it constantly with 
& wooden spoon, or, if you wish it 
exceedingly clear, stir it at intervals 
only, putting in each time a dessert 
spoonful of aspic jelly. When reduced 
to the proper consistence, strain it again 
into a small saucepan, and stir it inces- 
Santly with a sauce ladle, that it may 
cool smoothly ; when no more than luke- 
warm, pour a quarter of it on the par- 
tridges, shaking the saucepan lightly, 
and then place on ice for half an hour; at 
the end of that time, Jay the partridge 
legs very close, ez couronne, on these lay 
the wings, then three breasts, over these 
two more breasts, and on the top of the 
whole a fine truffle, dressed in wine, and 
a large well-blanched cock’s-comb; then 
beat up the remainder of the sauce with 
@ spoon; if it be too thick, set it on the 
fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so, 
place it on ice; when of the proper con- 
sistence, it quits the spoon with diffi- 
culty; remove the truffle and cock’s- 
comb, cover the chaud-froid carefully 
with the sauce, and then replace them. 
Garnish the dish with a border of roots, 
or aspic jelly. 

AME (Essence of.)*—Take four rab- 
bits, four partridges, two guasis of veal, 
two pounds of steaks; put them into a 
stewpan, witha bottle of white wine; hoil 
them until the whole is entirely reduced 
to ajelly; then add to it broth, and con- 
sommeé, (equal quantities of each,) eight 
carrots, ten onions, three cloves, a little 
thyme and basil ; let the whole boil very 
gently, until the meat is quite done ; then 
strain it through a napkin. No salt need 
be put into it, as the broth and consommé 
are sufficiently seasoned to flavour the 
essence of game. 

GamE, Farce for.*—Chop some beef- 
marrow, and streaky bacon, and pound 
them well, then take the livers of your 
game, and pound them also with the 
marrow ; add salt, spices, yolks of eggs, 
and a little cream ; if it betoo thin, boil 
it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it con- 
stantly stirring, to prevent it from burn 


Inge f 
Game Fritters.*—Take any of those 
of cold roasted game, which can be 
cut into thin slices, dip them into good 
batter, and fry them in olive oil, or lard. 
Sprinkle the fritters when done, with 
salt and spices, pounded very fine. 


( 259 ) 


GAM 


Game, Fumet of.*— This is a clear 
sauce, made ina similar manner to essence 
of game; when strained off, put it into 
a saucepan, and let it boil, then set it by 
the side of the stove, and add to it half 
a glass of cold water, to make the scum 
rise, which must be carefully removed ; 
then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. 
This is used with dishes of game, breade 
ed, broiled, &c. 

Game (fumet of) Sauce.*—Take three or 
four partridges or young wild rabbits, 
two carrots, three or four onions, two 
cloves, two bay leaves,a little thyme, and - 
half a bottle of white wine ; reduceall toa 
jelly, and then moisten it with essence of 
game, or if you have none, with consommeé. 
Set itona gentle fire till the game is 
done, then strain it through a napkin, 
and stir into it six or eight spoonsful of 
espagnole, or any other sauce which is 
convenient; reduce, and then strain it 
again, and put it into a stewpan, in the 
bain marie. 

Game, Petits Patés of.*—Make some 
petits palés with godiveau, as directed, 
(see petits pdtés of gravy); when baked, 
take out the godiveau, and put in its 
place the following preparation: take 
some mushrooms, parsley, a clove of 
garlic, scallions, two cloves, and a piece 
of butter, give them a few turns in a stew- 
pan, and then add a pinch of flour, a 
glass of white wine, veal blond, salt and 
pepper; stew them gently, till the mush- 
rooms are done, when put in some cold 
roasted game, cut into dice, take out the 
parsley, and beat up the whole. Serve 
the petits patés with Seville orange-juice. 

Game, Potage of.*—Take the large 
fillets from six partridges, and the most 
fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set 
them aside,and make the remainder into 
a consommeé, with two or three pounds of 
shin of beef, and the usual vegetables 
and seasoning; then having taken out 
all the membranes, &c. from the rabbit 
and partridges, which were set aside, 
pound and rub them through a sieve. 
Make a panada with bread crumbs, a 
little consommé, and the yolks of two 
eggs; let it thicken and gratinez, stir- 
ring it constantly; mix the pounded 
game with an equal quantity of panada, 
and a small piece of fresh butter, or 
ready dressed calf’s udder; add salt, 
pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- 
rooms; pound the whole with two more 
yolks of eggs and one white, beaten to a 
snow; make this. into balls, and lay 
them on a flat plate, that they will easily 
slide off into the boiling consommé, 
which must be well skimmed; when the 
balls are sufficiently done, pour the . 
on into the soup tureen, and serve 
it. 


GAR 


Game Pudding.*—Trim and truss a 
sufficient quantity of small birds, such as 
quails, larks, thrushes, &c., and fry them 
lightly in butter, with a handful of sweet 
herbs, salt, pepper, and any other sea- 
soning you please; then make a thick, 
stiff paste, in which put the game, close 
‘paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put 
itina large saucepan of boiling water ; 
when it has boiled an hour, take it from 
the cloth, open the crust, and pour in 
some good cullis, or espagnole, close it 
again, and then serve it hot. 

Game, Purée of.*—Pound the meat of 
any sort of game you think proper, with 
a little panada, and moisten it with con- 
‘sommé. Break the bones, and boil them 
in some good broth, which add to the 
pureé, and a small piece of butter ; boil all 
together a few minutes, and then serve it 
poured over bread. 

Game Soup.*—Put into a moderate 
sized saucepan three pounds of beef- 
steaks, four old partridges, a knuckle of 
veal, a pheasant, carrots, onions, four 
heads of celery, three cloves,and a bunch 
of fennel; while it is doing, take three 
cold roasted partridges, and pound them 
in a mortar, with a piece of crumb of 
bread, about three times as big as an egg, 
and previously soaked in broth; moisten 
the partridges also with broth, and when 
sufficiently pounded, pass it through a 
sieve ; put to the purée some of the broth, 
and set it on a gentle fire for some time, 
taking care that it does not boil. Dip 
your bread in the usual manner in the 
soup, (made as directed above,) and 


serve. 

GARBURE 4a la Béarnoise.*—Blanch 
four cabbages and a dozen lettuces, put 
them into a braising pan, with a piece of 
streaked bacon, an equal quantity of 
ham, previously soaked, a sausage with- 
out garlic, and the legs of a goose, some 
broth without salt, a bunch of parsley, 
some roots, and two onions,a clove stuck 
in each; let these stand over the fire till 
thoroughly done, then drain the meat 
and vegetables separately; strain the 
liquor, skim, and clarify it; take some 
rye-bread, cut the crumb of it into very 
thin slices; then have ready a deep 
dish that will. bear the fire, and lay the 
cabbages, lettuce, bacon andbread dip- 
ped in the broth, round the inside of the 
dish, leaving a space or kind of well in 
the centre, which fill up with a purée of 
green pease, the ham, and the legs of geose; 
cut the sausage into slices, and place 
them round the edges. Put the dish 
over a stove that it may gratinez. Serve 
it with the clarified broth in another 
dish. 

GaRrsure au Hameau de Chantilly.*— 


é 


( 260 ) 


GAR 
Put three pounds of veal cutlets, a 
knuckle of veal, two partridges, and two 
pigeons, into a saucepan, tie these up 
that they may not fall to pieces in cook- 
ing ; fill the saucepan with good stock 
or consommé, and add carrots, turnips, 
onions, celery, leeks, and two cloves. 
When the meat is sufficiently done, take 
it from the saucepan, and put it into a 
deep dish; lay round it the vegetables, 
taking care to lay each sort separately : 
then take forty or fifty carrots, cut them 
into round pieces, about two inches long 3 
keep them all of the same size; cut as 
many turnips, onions, and leeks in a 
similar manner, boil these also in broth, 
but not that in which the meat was cook- 
ed; add sugar sufficient to correct any 
acidity; the vegetables should be tho- 
roughly done, but not so much so as to 
break; place them round the meat, and 
then serve it with the broth of the meat, 
Strained in another tureen s no bread is 
required with this garbure. RM 
GarBure @ la Polignac.*—Take about 
twenty or thirty large chesnuts, and 
throw them into hot water to blanch 
them, in the same manner as almonds; 
when the skin is well cleared off, lay some 
slices of veal and bacon, two bay-jeaves, 
two cloves, six carrots, as many onions, 
and a bunch of green celery leaves, into 
a stewpan; put the chesnuts on these; 
season them with salt and pepper ; cover 
them with slices of bacon; moisten them 
with broth, and let them simmer for an 
hour; then if they are done, drain, and 
cut them in halves; fill your dish with 
alternate layers of bread and chesnuts3 
strain the liquor they were done in over 


| it, and gratinez it, and serve it. 


GARBURE @ laViileroy.*—Take twenty 
carrots, twenty turnips, a dozen onions, 
half a dozen heads of celery, the same 
number of lettuces, a dozen leeks, and a 
handful or more of chervil; cut the roots 
into dice, and bruise the lettuces and 
chervil. Put three quarters of a pound 
of fresh butter into a pan, and fry first 
the carrots lightly, then put the turnips, 
and fry them also lightly, add the leeks 
and onions; when these are quite done, 
put in the lettuces and chervils, and stir 
the whole together ; moisten them with 
a small quantity of broth, and boil them 
until sufficiently done, adding a piece of 
sugar about half the size of an egg. Then 
put a layer of bread and vegetables ona 
dish, (beginning with the bread); strew 
coarse pepper between each layer, an 
when your dish is sufficiently full, pour 
in the liquor without skimming, and set 
it on the fire. Let it stand till the gratin 
is formed, and then serve it. 

GARLIC Butter Sauce.*—Pound half 


stock, 


aes 





GAR 


a. ‘dozen cloyes of garlic; rub them 
through a silk sieve, with a wooden 


spoon; put thisintoa mortar with some | | ae 
thirty carrots, and as many turnips, into 


butter, and beat it until thoroughly in- 
corporated; then put this butter into any 
Sauice you please. 

_Garuic (Essence of ).* — Take an 
earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and 
put into it a bottle of white wine, half a 
glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, 
six cloves of garlic, the same number of 
cloves, the quarter of.a nutmeg, and two 
bay-leaves: when near boiling, reduce 
the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for 
seven or eight hours; strain it through a 
coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it 
in very closely corked bottles. A very 
small quantity of this essence is requisite 
to impart its flavourtoadish. _ 

Garuic Gravy.—Slice a pound anda 
half of veal, or beef; season it with pep- 
per and salt; put it into a stewpan, with 
two carrots split, and four cloves of gar- 
lic sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced 
ham, and a large spoonful of water ; put 
the stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch 
when the meat begins to stick to the 
pan; when it does,, turn it, and letjit be 
very well browned, (but take care that it 
is not in the least burnt) ; then dredge 
it with flour, and pour in aquartof broth, 
a bunch of sweet herbs,.a couple of cloves 
bruised, and slice in alemon ; set it on the 
ie again, then let it simmer gently for an. 

our and a half longer; then skim off 
the fat, and strain off the gravy, by pour- 
ing it through a napkin, straining and 
pressing it very hard. 

Garuic Pickled.—Pick the garlic very 
clean ; put it over a brisk fire, in salt 
and water, and boil it up quick; drain 
and dry it: make a pickle of double dis- 
tilled vinegar and salt; pour this boiling 
hot on the garlic; repeat the same the 
next day. 

Garuic Sauce.—Take two cloves of gar- 
lic, and pound themwith apiece of tresh 
butter, about the size of a nutmeg; roll 
it through a double hair sieve, and stir it 
into half a pint of melted butter, or beef 
gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. 

GARNITURE.* — Lay some cocks- 
combs, kidneys, and livers, into warm 
water, that all the blood may soak out ; 
when they are clean, have ready some 

ot (but. not boiling) water, into which 
throw the cocks-combs ; stir them about, 
and take them outone by one; lay them 
in a cloth with seme salt; rub them well 
to remove the pellicle, then put them 
again into warm water. The kidneys, 
when cleansed, should be boiled in a 
blane for half and hour; the livers must 
be blanched in water that simmers only, 
to prevent their becoming hard, though 


( 261) 


they should be firm. When all are cold, 
trim, and drain them for use. 


GAT 


Garniture & la Flamande. * — Cut, 


pieces about two inches and a. half long, 
and not quite one in diameter, which boil 
in a consommeé, with a little sugar; take 
thirty, lettuces, braised with cabbages, 


(see that article); drain, press, and 


trim. them, then lay them round a dish 
alternately as follows: a lettuce, a car= 


rot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of 


the dish for such meat as. you may think, 
proper to use; have ready thirty glazed 
onions, to garnish your lettuces, &c. 
When the meat. (or whatever you fill the 
middle of the dish with), is ready for, 
table, pour over it a m2vernaise, reduced. 
bh mixed with a little reduced espag- 
nole. 

GaRniTuRE en Ragodt.*— Put. into a 
saucepan some cocks-combs and kidneys, 
fat livers, lamb sweet-breads, truffles, 
guenelles, mushrooms; pour over these 
sufficient espagnole travaillée ;, or, if you 
wish your ragodt white, put the yolks of 
three or four eggs into some velouté, and 
use that. to dress the above articles, in- 
stead of the espagnole. 

GATEAU de Compiégne.* — Take 
three pounds of flour, two pounds of 
butter, an ounce and four drachms of 
yeast, an ounce of salt, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, a glass of cream, twelve 
yolks and twelve whole eggs, and five or 
Six spoonsful of whipped cream. 

With these ingredients proceed as fol- 
lows: sift the flour, of which put a fourth 
part on the slab, makea hole in the mid- 
dle, put into it a glass of warm water and 
the yeast; mix them together as lightly, 
and with as much dispatch as possible, 
adding more warm water if necessary ; 
when well worked. up for some minutes, 
gather it together, (it ought to leave the 
slab and the hand freely); putitinto a 
saucepan; cover it, and place it in a 
tolerably warm situation to rise. Take 
the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab, 
make a hole in the middle of it, in which 
put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these 
together well, and then put in the eggs, 
one at a time, (break them into a basin, 
in case all should net be good) ; the eggs 
being putin, add by degrees the butter, 
stirring them well; then mix the flour, 
a little at a time, with the above, until 
the whole is formed into a smooth paste 5 
more egys must be added if it be too 
stiff; work it up a little, and then add the 
leaven; work that in; and lastly, putin 
the whipped cream. The whole opera- 
tion being thus performed, have ready 
a cylindrical fluted mould, (about, eight 
inches in diameter, and nine in height); 


GAT 


butter it by means of a sponge, being 
careful that it is done in all parts, other- 
wise the gdteaw will adhere to it; place 
the mould in a moderately warm place, 
but where there is a free current ofair. 
When the gdteaw has risen so as to fill 
the mould, and the surface is a little 
inflated, it should be put into the oven 
instantly, if not, it falls and becomes 
heavy. The oven must beof a moderate 
heat, and kept closed while the gateau is 
baking ; take it out in about an hour, 
and if it be flexible and light coloured, 
replace it for thirty or forty minutes ; 
but if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm 
to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, 
and put it in the oven till done; remove 
the mould with care, and the gateauw is 
finished. If the mould does not come 
away quite so well as it ought, strike it 
gently with aspatula. When-taken out, 
Be it in the oven for a few minutes to 
ry. 

This gadteau is sometimes varied by 
the addition of six ounces of sugared 
anise, and the same quantity of dry 
currants. 

Gateau de Compiégne, with Angelica 

and Cherries.*— Three pounds of flour, 
twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, 
six of sugar, six of preserved angelica, 
the same of preserved cherries, the zestes 
of three cedrats, half a glass of brandy, 
three or four glasses of milk, twelve 
whole eggs, twelve yolks, and two pounds 
of butter. 
_ Cut the angelica into small pieces ; put 
it into a basin, with sugar on which the 
cedrats have been rubbed, the brandy 
and cherries well drained, and each cut 
in half. The other parts of the operation 
are exactly the same as gdteau de Com- 
plégne. 

GaTEAv @ la Francaise.—Take three 
pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, 
One ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, 
the zestes of four oranges, half a glass of 
rum, three quarters of a pound of dry 
currants, twelve eggs, the same number 
of yolks, three glasses of cream, and two 
pounds of butter. 

Grate the zestes of the oranges on a 
piece of sugar, and as it colours the su- 
gar, scrape off the surface lightly ; take 
six ounces of this sugar, crush it com- 
pletely, and put it into a pan, with the 
rum and the currants, (thoroughly wash- 
ed); having stirred it well, cover the 
pan, and set it aside. Then sift the flour, 
make your leaven with a fourth part of 
it, as usual, (see Gdteau Parisienne) ; 
put the butter and eggs into a pan, and 
mix them the same as the conglauffle. 
To this mixture put half the remaining 
flour ; and when that is amalgamated, the 


( 262 ) 


GAT 


cream, (a little ata time); then by d a 
grees the rest of the flour, the salt, the 
leaven, the currants, and rum, stirring 
well the whole time, that all the ingre- 
dients may be thoroughly incorporated ;" 


finish the same as gdteau de Compiégne. 


Gatrau of Mille Feuilles.* — 'Vake 


some puff-paste, and divide it into eight’ 


pieces, one of which must be double the 
size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to 
about the thickness ofa half crown; cut 
them all of an equal size; dorez, and 


place them on tins. Then take the eighth - 


piece, roll it to double the thickness, and 
cut it to the size of the others ; ornament 
one side of this layer, as it forms the top, 
and glaze it. Bake them, and when cold, 
take the first layer, and spread currant- 
jelly all over it; cover it with a second 
layer, on which spread apricot marma- 
lade ; and proceed thus, using a different 
preserve between each layer of pufi- 
paste, until you have employed the 
whole. 
some of each preserve contained in the 
gdteau : trim the edges, taking care to 
keep it quite round; fix some small 
meringues to it, by means of sugar boiled 
to cassé ; place it on a napkin, and serve 
it. Chantilly cream of different colours 
may be substituted for the preserves. — 
Gareau a la Parisienne.*—Vake three 
pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of 


yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of. 
sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, | 


two pounds of butter, four glasses of 
cream, a pound of filberts, three quarters: 


of a pound of pistachio nuts, and a quar-- 


ter of a pound of preserved orange-peel. 
Blanch the fiiberts, and roast them 
over a moderate fire, stirring them con- 
stantly till lightly coloured ; when done, 
take them off, and let them cool: as soon 
as they are cold, pound them, moistening, 
them occasionally with cream}; when re- 
duced to a smooth paste, put them into 
a pan, stir the cream (a little at a time), 
into them; then strain them twice 
through a napkin, squeezing hard to 
extract all the milk, which put into a 
basin, and set aside. ‘Then blanch half 
the pistachios ; wash them in cold water 3. 
split each in half, and cut the orange- 
peel into pieces of the same length as. 
the pistachio nuts, and about the eighth 
of an inch square, 
Divide the flour and make the leaven 
in the same manner as directed for Gd- 
teau de Compiégne, except that milk is 
substituted for water. Having done it, 
and set it aside to rise, take a pound an 
ahalf of the butter; work it up, put it 
into a pan, and add to it the remaining 
half pound, just dissolved; stir them 
together well, and put in the eggs and 


Garnish the upper piece with. 





GAT ( 263 ) GEE 


yolks, one by one, working them up con- 
stantly; then mix in successively half 
the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and 
two handsful of flour ; make a hollow in 
. the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, 
and another glass of the milk of filberts ; 
mix: these together, and then add the 
remainder of the flour and milk of fil- 
-berts, and the leaven; these being 
thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange 
peel and pistachios, and then pour the 
‘preparation into a mould of the same 
ind, and buttered like that for Gdteau 
de Compiégne. Whilst it is baking, 
blanch the remainder of the pistachios ; 
' divide each nut in half; dry them 
thoroughly in a napkin, and when the 
gdteau is taken from the mould, stick 
them on the top and round the sides. 
GateaAu de Pithiviers.*—Pound to a 
-very smooth paste half a pound of fil- 
berts ; add to them six ounces of fine 
sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
two ounces of bitter almonds, four yolks 
of eggs, and a little salt; these ingre- 
dients being wel! beaten together, put in 
four spoonsful of whipped cream. Then 
‘take some puff-paste, knead and roll it 
out perfectly, and divide it into two 
arts, one of which must be two-thirds 
arger than the other, which roll out of a 
sufficient size, to cut a round piece nine 
inches in diameter; add the cuttings of 
this to the remaining paste; roll it out, 
and cut a circular piece of seven inches 
diameter. Moisten the edges of the 
smallest piece lightly, and pour on it the 
-above preparation; spread it over the 
whole equally to within an inch of the 
edge; then cover it lightly with the 
other circular piece; press the paste 
together, that the preparation may not 
escape in baking. Flute the edge; dorez 
the top, and trace on it any design you 
‘may think proper, with the point of a 
knife. Place it in a brisk oven, and when 
coloured, remove it nearer the opening, 
that the paste may not be too high- 
ly coloured. When it has been_bak- 
ing three quarters of an hour, take it 
out and glaze it. These gdtcaux may be 
varied according to taste, by introducing 
different articles, such as butter, al- 
monds, dry currants, muscadel raisins, 
crisped orange-flowers,&c.,&c., in proper 
quantities, into the above preparation. 
Gateau de Pithiviers Anglo-Fran- 
cais.*—Take eight ounces of pounded 
sweet almonds, four of beef marrow shred 
very fine, two of powder sugar, two of 
bitter macaroons, two of dry currants, 
two of the best raisins, stoned, half an 
ounce of crisped orange-flowers, a grain of 
salt. the yolks of four eggs, half a glass 
of Spanish wine, and half a nutmeg 


grated; put these ingredients into a 
saucepan, and stir them well. Prepare 
the puff-paste as above directed, (gateau 
de pithiviers), adding to this a narrow 
raised edge; pour in the preparation, 
which being rather liquid, would run out 
but for this precaution 5 cover, and bake 
it in the usual manner. To this may 
also be added other ingredients to vary 
its flavour, 

Gateau Royal.*—Three pounds of 
flour, twelve dramchs of yeast,an ounce of 
salt, six ounces of sugar, six drachms of 
vanilla, aglass of maraschino, three quar- 
ters of a pound of muscadel raisins, two 
pounds of butter, twelve yolks, and 
twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of 
whipped cream. Stone the raisins, put 
them into a basin with the maraschino 
and vanilla, pounded with the sugar and 
strained, cover the basin very closely, 
and set itaside. Make the leavenas be- 
fore directed (gdleau de Compiégne). 
Then put three parts of the butter intoa 
pan, melt the fourth part and add to it, 
beat them to a cream, and, at intervals 
of two minutes, put in two whole eggs 
and two yolks, untilall are used ; to this 
add the other ingredients, and finish the 
gateau in the same manner as gdteau de 
Compitégne. 

GEESE, fo Choose.—Be careful in 
choosing a goose, that the bill and feet 
are yellow, as it will be young: when old 
the feet and bill are red. When they 
are fresh the feet are pliable; if stale 
they are dry and stiff. Green geese are 
in season from May or June, till they 
are three months old; they should be 
scalded. A stubble goose is good till it 
is five or six months old, and should be 
picked dry. 

GEESE (Legs of ) @ la Rémoulade.*— 
Take the legs of one or more geese, and 
dress them @ la braize; then dip them 
into the fat in which they were cooked, 
then bread them; sprinkle them over 
with a little good oil, and broil them of 
a fine brown: serve dry, with a separate 
sauce a la rémoulade, made in the follow- 
ing manner:—Mix a little mustard in a 
saucepan, with salt and pepper, also 
capers, anchovies, parsley, leeks, and a 
clove of garlic, chopped up together very 
fine, and diluted with oil and vinegar. 

GEESE (fo Preserve).*—Take any num- 
ber of geese, and roast till they are about 
three parts done, being careful to pre- 
serve the fat that drops from them; let 
them cool, and when cool cut each goose 
into four parts, taking off the legs, and 
keeping the breasts and wings together ; 
place them very close, one upon the 
other, inan earthen pot, putting between 
each layer three or four bay-leaves and 


did cag Re lee t= « 


GEN 


pel of hog’s-lard, an 
t 


When you want to use them, take the 
pieces of goose out of the fat, and before 
using, wash them well in warm water. 
Geese to Truss.—The goose must be 
first well picked and stubbed, then cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, and the 
feetalso. Make a slit inthe back of the 
neck, and take out the throat, cut off 
the neck close to the back and the skin, 
but leave enough to turn over the back ; 
make a slit between the vent and the 
rump, though which draw out the en- 
trails, then wipe it clean. Draw the legs 
up, keeping them close to the side, then 
put a skewer into the wing, through the 
middle of the leg, body, and the leg and 
‘wing on the other side; put another 
skewer through the small of the leg, 
which keep close to the sidesmen; run 
jt through, and do the same on the other 
side. Cut through the end of the vent, 
through which put the ruinp, to prevent 
the stuffing from falling out. 
-GENOISES.*—Put into an earthen 
pan six ounces of powder-sugar, ‘six 
whole eggs (as if for biscuits) a quarter 
of a pound of flour, the same of sweet 
almonds pounded, a little orange-flower 
water, asmall quantity of salt, and about 
an ounce of butter: mix these ingre- 
dients together well, butter a baking 
plate, and spread the preparation over it, 
to the thickness of a half-crown piece; 
ut it into a brisk oven of a proper co- 
our, and then cut your génoises into sach 
forms as you may fancy: put them into 
a stove to dry, and then serve them. 
When you have proceeded thus far, 
you may, if you think proper, ornament 
‘them, which is done in the following 
manner: do them all over with a glace 
royale of different colours according to 
your taste, and place them in the stove 
a minute or two to dry the glace ; when 
eee garnish them with apple or currant 
jelly. 
: Gieiiens Glaces al Italienne.*—Hav- 
ing baked and cut the génoises, place 
them on a sheet of white paper. Clarify 
and then boil to sowfié half a pound of 
‘sugar; as soon as it reaches that degree 
take the pan from the fire, and set the 
bottom of it in cold water, take up the 
sugar, and having whipped the whites of 
three eggs, mix them by degrees with the 
suyar ; cover the génorses with this glace, 
then place them in a stove for a quarter 


( 264 ) 


some salt: then melt the goose-grease 
which has been preserved, with a good 
d pour it into 

e pot; there must be a sufficient quan- 
tity to cover the birds; twenty-four 
hours afterwards close up the pot with. 
parchment, and when the whole is quite 
cold, put it in a dry place to keep for use. 


GHE 


ofan hour to dry. This glace may be 
tinged of various colours by adding to it 
the different articles used for colouring 
‘gugar, almonds, &c. See those articles. 


Genorsss, Paste for.*—Take a pound 


of flour, three quarters of a pound ‘of 
sugar, and half a pound of butter ; rub 
the rinds of two or three lemons upon a 
part of the sugar, crush it with the roll- 
ing pin, and then roll it to a very fine 
powder ; make a hole in the middle of 
the flour, and put into it a little sait, four 
yolks and four whole eggs, the butter and 
sugar; work them together well, and hay- 
ing made your paste, roll it out, and cut 
it into bands, which roll the size of your 
little finger ; cut them of equal lengths, 
and form them into S’s or horse-shoes; 
slit the sides and ends, lay them on but- 
tered tins, dorez, and bake them in an 
oven, rather hotter than for baking bis- 
cutts. 
Geno1ses Smal/l.*—Take some almond 
paste, and having worked it up well, add 
to it a little gum-dragon, and a little 
starch, hoth in powder. Sprinkle a 
sheet of paper with powder-sugar, lay 
the almond paste over it, and sprinkle 
that also with sifted sugar instead of flour’; 
then take a small round paste-cutter, an 
cut as many pieces from the paste as you 
may require ; then cut an equal number 
of strips, each long enough to sur- 
round the tartlet, and about half an inch 
wide; fix these bands to the tartlets with 
the white of egg. Puta layer of the al- 
mond-paste on a table-dish, add a rim to 
it, leaving the edge either plain or notch- 
ed, as you please ; place on this layer as 
many génotses (prepared as above) as it 
will contain, and then put them in a 
stove or oven to dry. When wanted for 
table, fill them according to your taste, 
with three or four sorts of preserves. 
GHERKINS.* —Dutch gherkins are 
esteemed the best sort; when boiled 
they are used in garnishing salads, an 
likewise to make ragouts ; they are done 
in the following manner: boil them a 
moment in water to take off the strength 
of the vinegar; then put them into a 
good sauce or ragout, not allowing them 
to boil again; serve with any dish you 
think proper. t 
Guerxins Pickled. * — Choose the 
greenest gherkins, and having cut offthe 
tails and heads, rub them to remove the 
down ; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar; 
pour overa sufficient quantity of the best 
vinegar to cover the gherkins, and let 
them stand; after three days, draw off 
the vinegar, and boil it; when the quan- 
tity is a little lessened, throw in the gher- 
kins, and boil them together; then pour 
the whole into the jar agains In about 





GIB 


five or six daystake them out, and boil 
again, adding garlic, tarragon, and salt; 
‘put them inio the jar, which must not be 
covered until the vinegar is perfectly cold. 

Guergins Pickled. * — Choose your 
gherkinsas above,very green andstraight, 

brush, and placea layer in a pan, sprinkle 
them with fine salt, then another layer 
of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also, 
and continue this operation until you 
have used nearly a bushel of gherkins, 
leave them: in the salt for twenty-four 
hours, which will draw all the water from 
them; at the end ofthat time drain and 
place them in a jar, with a handful of 
allspice, the same of tarragon, a little 
balm, ten shalots, six cloves of gar- 
lic, two or three long peppers, twenty 
cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two 
small handsful of salt. Boil two gallons 
of the best vinegar, pour it over the gher- 
kins, and let them stand till the next 
day, when boil the vinegar a second time, 
and pour it on again; the following day 
boil the vinegar for the third and last 
‘time, pour it over the gherkins, and 
when quite cold, cover the jar with a wet 
parchment. 
 Gwerxins Preserved Wet.—Let your 
gherkins be clear and free from all spots, 
put them into salt and water, let them 
stand two or three days, then take them 
out, and drain them well; put them in 
another pan of water, scald them, put 
them in a tub, and let them stand all 
night; then drain the water from them; 
put them in a pan of water, and to every 
two quarts of water, put half a pint of 
syrup; put them in, and let them boil 
over a slow fire five minutes; put them 
in the tub again, and Jet them stand til 
mext day; then boil them again, drain 
that syrup from them, and have a clean 
pan, with the syrup of a proper. thick- 
ness; let it boil, put the gherkins into 
it, and let them boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour; then put them into a flat 
brown pan, and cover them; let them 
stand two days, then drain the syrup 
from them; boil the syrup one minute, 
and pour it over them; the next day 
boil them and the syrup together three 
or four minutes, and repeat the same for 
five days; then put them into pots, and 
cover them up. 

Guerkins, Ragoti of. —Cut the large 
ones into quarters, and let the small ones 
remain whole; soak them some time, to 
take the vinegar out, then warm them in 
a good strong cullis without boiling; 
serve them as a ragoiit, to serve with 
whatever dish you think proper. 

GIBLET Pie.—Well scald and wash 
your giblets, put them to stew like mut- 
ton cutl<ts, but longer, till they are very 


( 265 ) 


GIM 


tender. You may either make a pufl- 
paste or short paste to bake them in; 
when you lay them in the dish, add the 
yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pepper, 
salt, and the gravy of the giblets; form 
a star of leaves on the top of the pie, egg 
it, and bake it. If you wish it to be par- 
ticularly good, reduce some consommé 
with a little Madeira wine, and pour it 
into the pie. The giblets proper to 
make the pie with, are the head, neck, 
pinions, heart, gizzard, feet, and liver. 

Gistet Pie.—Very nicely clean a goose 
or duck’s giblets; stew them with a 
small quantity of water, onion, black 
pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till 
nearly done; let them grow cold ; then, 
if there is not a sufficient quantity to fill 
the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton 
steak, at the bottom. Put the liquor of 
the giblets also into the dish, and bake 
it; when the pie is baked, pour in a large 
tea-cupful of cream. You may add, if 
you please, sliced potatoes,and bake them 
with the pie. 

GiBLET Soup.—Take three or four sets 
of goose or duck’s giblets; and stew them 
with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag 
of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of 
veal, an ox-tail, or some shanks of mut- 
ton ; with three onions, a large bundle of 
sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pep- 
per, and a large spoonful of salt. Put 
five pints of water, and simmer till the 
gizzards (which must each be in four 
pieces) are quite tender; skim nicely, 
and add a quarter ofa pint of cream, two . 
tea-spoonstul of mushroom-powder, and 
an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert- 
spoonful of flour.. Let it boil a few mi- 
nutes, and serve with the giblets. It 
may be seasoned, instead of cream, with 
two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large 
spoonful of catsup, and some cayenne. 
When in the tureen, add salt. 

Giptets, Stewed.—Do them as directed 
for giblet pie; season them with salt and 
pepper, and averysmall piece of mace. 
Before serving, give them one boil, with 
a cup of cream and a bit of butter rubbed 
in a tea-spoonful of flour. bak 

Gisuets Stewed. — Well scald and 
clean them ; cut off the bill, divide the 
head, skin the feet, stew them with wa- 
ter (a sufficient quantity for sauce), a 
sprig of thyme, some whole black pepper, 
and an onion; let them stew till very 
tender; strain the sauce; add a little 
catsup, and flour, provided the sauce is 
not too thick. Serve with sippets, toast- 
ed and laid round the dish. 

. GIMBLELVTES = Printaniéres.* — 
Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut 
them into very thin slips, and rub them 
with er and spinach-juice to colour 


GIN 


them green, then dry them. Take some 


choux paste, and lay it on @ tin in por-— 


tions about half the size of an egg 5 dorez 
them, and having dipped the’end of your 
finger in the dorure, make a hole in the 


middle of each chow; bake them, and 


when done, dip them, one by one, first 


in sugar boiled to cassé, and then in the | 
almonds, which will adhere to them by 
Arrange the gzm- | 


means of the sugar. 
- lettes on a dish according to your tasie, 
and serve them. 


GINGERBREAD.—Rub one pound. 
of butter well into three pounds of flour; — 
then add one pound of powder-sugar, | 


one pound of treacle, and two ounces of 
ginger pounded and sifted very fine; one 


nutmeg grated very fine; then warma | 


quarter of a pint of cream, and mix all 
together; you may add carrawavs and 
sweetmeats if you choose; make it into 
a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow oven. 

If cake or biscuits are kept in paper or 
adrawer, they will acquire a disagreeable 
taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will 
preserve them long and moist; or if to 
be crisp, laying them before the fire wil! 
make them so. 

GINGERBREAD without Butter.—Mix 
two pounds of treacle 5 of orange, lemon, 
citron, and candied »ginger, each four 
ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of 
coriander-seeds, one ounce of carraways, 
and one ounce of beaten ginger, inas much 
pasteias will make a soft paste; lay it in 
cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a quick 
oven. Keepit dry in a covered earthen 
vessel, and it will be good for some 
months. 

‘GINGERBREAD Nuts.—Take four pounds 
of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, an 
ounce of carraway-seeds, half an ounce 
of ginger pounded and silted, six ounces 
of fresh butter, and two ouncesof candied 
orange-peel cut into small slices; then 
take a pound of treacle or honey, and a 
gill of cream, make them warm together; 
mix it, with all the ingredients, into a 
paste, and let it lay six hours; then roll 
it out, make it into nuts, and bake them 
in a moderate oven. 

Gincer Cakes.—Put four pounds of 
flour upon the dresser; then take a cop- 
per saucepan, and break into it six eggs, 
and mix them well with a spoon; add one 


pint of cream to thera, and beat them | 
well; put the saucepan over the fire, stir 


till your mixture is warm; put two pounds 
of butter into the cream and eggs, and 
one pound of sugar, and keep stirring it 
over a very slow fire, just to melt all the 
butter; put in four ounces ‘of pounded 
ginger, and as soon as all the butter is 
melted, pour it all into the middle of 
the flour ; mix it as well as you possibly 


( 266 ) 





GIN 


can, till it becomes a fine paste; then 
roll it out with flour under it on your 


dresser; cut them to the size of the top — 
of a tea-cup, a quarter of an inch in- 


thickness ; and before you put them into 
the oven (which should be very hot), 
place three papers under them. 

GincerR, Candied.—Put an ounce of 
ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted 
sugar into a preserving-pan with as much 
water as will dissolve it. Stir them well 
together over a slow fire, till the sugar 
begins to boil; then add another pound, 
stirring constantly till it thickens. Take 
it from the fire, dropiton earthen dishes 
set them in a warm place todry, an 
fee) will be hard and brittle and look 
white. 

Ginger Drops.—Put two ounces of 
candied orange, with a little sugar, into 
a mortar, and beat them toa paste ; then 


| mix an ounce of powder of white ginger 


with a pound of loaf sugar. Wet. the 
sugar with a little water, and boil all to- 
gether to a candy, and drop it on paper 
in moderate-sized drops. 

Gincer, Essence of. —Put three ounces 


| of fresh grated ginger, with one ounce of 


thin-cut lemon-peel, into a quart of 
brandy ; let itstand for ten days, shaking 
it up each day. 

GinceErR Ice Cream.—Take four ounces 
of preserved ginger,‘ pound it, and put it 
into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the 
juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; 
then freeze it. 

GinceR (Mock). — Take the largest 
cauliflowers you can procure, cut off all 
the flowers from the stalks, peel them, and 
throw them into strong spring water and 
salt for three days; then drain them in 
a sieve pretty dry, and put them in ajar; 
boil white wine vineger with cloves, mace, 
long pepper, and allspice, each half an 
ounce, torty blades of garlic, a stick of 
horse-radish, cut in slices, a quarter of 
an ounce of eayenne pepper, a quarter of 
a pound of yellow turmeric, and two 
ounces of bay salt; pour it boiling over 
the stalks, and cover it down close till 
the next day; then boil it again, and re- 
peat it twice more; and when it is cold, 
tie it down close. 

GincER, Preserved.—Take some green 
ginger, and with a sharp knife pare it 
neatly; and as it is pared, throw it into 
a pan of cold water to keep it white; 
when you have a sufficient quantity, boil 
it till tender, changing the water three 
times ; each time put it into cold water 
to take out the heat or spirit of thegin- 
ger; when tender, throw it into cold 
water; for seven pounds of ginger, 
clarify eight pounds of refined sugar; 
when cold, drain the ginger, and put it 


Ste ties 
ee py a oe 





GLA 


into an earthen pan, with a sufficient 
quantity of the sugar, cold, to cover it, 
and let it stand for a couple of days ; then 
pour the syrup from the ginger to the 
remainder of the sugar; boil it some 
time, and when cold, pour it on the gin- 
ger again, and set it by for three days, at 
least. ‘Then take the syrup from the 
ginger, boil it, and put it hot over the 
ginger; proceed in this manner till you 
find the sugar has entered the ginger; 
boiling the syrup and skimming off the 
scum that rises each time, until the 
syrup becomes rich as well as the ginger. 

If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if 
too rich, the ginger will shrink and not 
take the sugar. 

When green ginger cannot be pro- 
cured, take large races of Jamaica gin- 
ger, boiled several times in water till 
tender, pared neatly, and proceed the 
same as above. 

GincER Sprigs.—Take three eggs, one 
pound ofsugar, a pound of flour, a litte 
ginger, two spoonsful of rose-water; mix 
the whole into a paste, and cut into what 
form you please. 

Gincer WVine.—Put ten gatlons of wa- 
ter into a boiler, with fifteen pounds of 
lump-sugar, and the whites of eight 
eggs well beaten and strained ; mix all 
well together while coid; when the liquor 
boils, skim it well; put in halfa pound 
ofcommon white ginger bruised, let it 
boil twenty minutes. MHavein readi- 
ness the rind of seven lemons (the rind 
must be very thin), and pour the liquor 
on them; when cool, tun it with two 
spoonsful of yeast; to a quart of the li- 
quor put two ounces of isinglass-shavings, 
while warm, whisk it well three or four 
times, and pour all together into the 
barrel. _ Next day stop it up; in three 
weeks bottle it ; and in three months it 
will be fit to drink, 

GLACE, Royale.*—Put the white of 
a new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with 
ita sufficient quantity of white powder- 
sugar to make a glace or icing, neither 
too dry nor too liquid; beat it well, and 
add alittle lemon-juice to whiten it. By 
mixing with this glace, carmine, saffron, 
indigo, spinach-juice, &e.3 it will be 
either rose-coloured, yellow, blue, green, 
&c. according ta your taste. 

GLAZE.*—Take the remains of any 
liquor in which meat has been cooked, 
and strain it through a silk sieve until 
quite clear; then put it into a saucepan 
and reduce it over a brisk fire: as soon 
as it is sufficient)y done, that is, when it 
sticks to the spoon, put it into a smaller 
saucepan, and set itin the bacn-marie ; 


when wanted, add a small piece of fresh 


butter to it, to correct its saltness, 


( 267 ) 





GOD 


Guaze.* — Make a consommé with 
whatever remnants of fowls or meat that 
may be in the house ; strain it, and then 
put it on the fire with two or three whites 
of eggs beaten to a snow ; stir till it boils, 
and then set on the side of the stove, and 
place fire on the saucepan lid; as soon 
as the eggs areset, pass the glaze through 
a wet cloth; reduce this over a large fire, © 
stirring it constantly with a wooden 
spoon to prevent its sticking ; then pour 
it intoa pot for use. 

When wanted, put a small quantity of 
it into'a saucepan, and make it hot over a 
slow fire; and, in this state, lay it gently 
over such articles as may require glazing, 
by means of a feather. . 

Guaze, of Roots.*—Fill a saucepan 
three parts full of vegetables, such as 
carrots, turnips, and onions (have the 
largest quantity of the two latter); four 
or five cloves may also be added, and 
veal, if you think proper ; moisten the 
whole with stock or water, boil your ve- 
getables over a gentle fire, and proceed 
in the usual manner. 

GODARD .—This is the same as Ra- 
gout Financiere, only it serves to garnish 
a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons, 
gautiers, and larded sweetbreads; keep 
your sauce thin. 

GODIVEAU.* — Take fillet of veal 
(or breasts of fowl or game), fresh pork 
(or sausage-meat), beef-marrow or suet, 
equal quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, 
truffies, and mushrooms; season these 
articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, 
all in powder; pound them all together, 
and put in (one at a time) the yolks of 
eggs; pour in alsoa little water, pound- 
ing continually, until it is reduced toa 
sortof paste. Make a small ball of it, 
which bvil ina little water to ascertain 
whether it be snfficiently salt; sweet 
herbs may be added when you are about 
to use it. The godiveau isused as afaree 
for tourtes and hot pies. 

Gopiveau (Hot) Pie of.* — Make a 
raised crust, about five inches high, and 
of any size you may think proper; on the 
bottom of which lay some godiveau, over 
this place some mushrooms cooked in 


-butter, two or three artichoke-bottoms, 


cut into pieces, and then lay some more 
godiveau formed into small sausages. 
Cover the pie with the paste, dorez 
and bake it.. When done, open it, and 
pour in any sauce which will correspond 
with the godiveau. 

Gopivnau, Tourte of.* — Roll out 
some light paste, and cut it to the size of 
the dish you intend to use; spread over 
ita small quantity of godiveau, on which 
place a few mushrooms fried lightly and 
drained re some artichoke-bottoms, 

A 


GOO 


each cut into four or six pieces; roll some 
godiveau into balls of any size you think 
proper, and lay them on the above- 
mentioned articles, so as toform a flattish 
' dome; cover it with the light paste, 
press the edges together, moisten the 
top, and lay an ornamental cover of puff- 
paste over. 

GOOSE, Botled.—Take a goose, singe 
it, and pour over it a quartof boiling 
milk; let it lie in this all night; then 
take it out, dry it well with a cloth; cut 
into small pieces a large onion and some 
sage; put them into the goose, sew it up 
at the neck and vent, hang it up by the 
legs till the next day; then put it intoa 
pot of cold water, cover it close, and let 
it boil gently for an hour. Serve with 
onion sauce. 

Another method of*boilinga goose, is 
by laying it in salt for a week ; then boil 
it foram hour. Serve with onion sauce, 
or cabbage boiled or stewed in batter. 

Goose en Daube.*—Prepare a goose 
in the usual way, lard it with Jardons 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices; 
lay slices of bacon in a braizing-pan, the 
goose on them, with four carrots, four 
onions, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, 
scailions, a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces } 
and cover the whole with slices of bacon; 
add a little salt, and three ladlesful of 
broth ; let it simmer for two hours or 
more, according to the age of the bird. 
When done, take it out, and drain it; 
strain the liquor and reduce it to half; 
and having cleared off the fat and glazed 
the goose, pour the sauce over it. Gar- 
nish your dish with onions, cabbages, or 
turnips, glazed, and a tomata sauce. 

Goosse en Daube.*—This dish is sel- 
dom prepared but with an old goose; 
which, when singed and trussed, is Jard- 
ed with bacon seasoned with parsley, 
scallions, shalots, garlic, sage, thyme, 
‘basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg; do up some roasted ches- 
nuts with some butter and a little sugar; 
stuff your goose with this, put the bird 
into a pan with slices of bacon under and 


over it, moisten it with broth or water | 


and white wine$ put in also a knuckle of 
veal, cut in pieces; four carrots, four 


‘onions (one stuck with three cloves) a | 


‘parsnip, a bouguet garni, salt, pepper, 
and spices. Let it stand over a small 
fire three or four hours; then take out 
the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and 
reduce it, so that when cold it mav be 
quite a jelly, which clarify with “the 
white of an egg, and dish the goose with 
this jelly over and round it. 


Goose, Gravy of.*—Lay in a large. 


saucepan some slices of onion, two slices 
.of bacon, three or four beef-steaks, a 


( 268 ) 


GOO 

goose, and a duck, cut up; pour over 
these, two quarts of boiling water, and 
close the saucepan as tight as possible. 
Let it stand over a gentle fire for four or 
five hours, then open it, and put those 
pieces to the bottom whick had previously 
lain at the top; add a little pepper and 
salt, close the vessel again, and set it on 
hot ashes foran hour; at the end of that 
time, have ready some stone jars, in 
which place the pieces of goose 3 pour 
over them a part of the liquor from them, 
through a sieve, and as the meat imbibes 
it, in about two hours pour in the re- 
mainder. Ifyou wish this gravy to keep 
for two or three months, cover them with 
their own dripping, an inch in thickness. 

Goose (Green) Pie.—Bone twe young 
green geese of a good size ; carefully: pre- 
pared and nicely singed. Wash them 
clean, and season them high with salt, 
pepper, mace, and allspice; put one in- 
side the other; pressing them as closely 
together as possible, drawing the legs 
inwards. Put plenty of butter over them, 
and bake them, either with or without 
crust, as you please; if the Jatter, a cover 
to the dish must fit close to keep in the 
steam. : 

Goose (Green) Roasted.—After a green 
goose has been well trussed and singed, 
put into the inside a good bit of butter, 
mixed with pepper and salt; put it to 
roast, and baste it frequently with but- 
ter. When done, shake over it some 
flour and salt, when ready, take out the 
skewers, lay it on the dish with good 
gravy under it, and green sauce in a 
boat; it will take three quarters of an 
hour to roast. 

Goose (Legs und Wings of ) a la Bay- 
onne.*—Take the legs and wings from as 
many half-roasted fat geese as you may 
think proper; bone them, and when cold, 
rub them with salt and saltpetre, and 
lay them regularly in a pan with bay- 
leaves, thyme, and sage, between each 
layer; cover the pan close, and let them 
lay thus twenty-four hours; then take 
them out, dry, and finish cooking them 
over a slow fire, in their own fat. When 
sufficiently done, take them out, but 
keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs 
and wings are quite cold, place them 
closely in a jar, leaving a space at the 
top of about three inches, which fill up 
with the warm fat. Do net tie the jar 
over until the whole is quite cold. . 

Goose (Legs and Wings of) @ ka 
Bayonne.*— ‘lake the legs and wings 
from five geese; bone the latter with 
your hand, and rub them and the wings 
with salt, pounded and mixed with half 
an ounce of saltpetre; having done this, 


place them in an earthen pan, and bay- 


—S 


a 





GOO ( 269 ) GOO 


the whole simmer for two hours, then 
take it out, drain and take off the 
thread ; dish them, and serve with a 
purée of lentils, green pease, onions, &c. 

Goose (Legs of) &@ la Rémoulade.* — 
Take the legs of a goose, either roasted 
or @ la daube; soak them in their own 
dripping; bread, and baste them lightly 
witli oil; broil them to a nice colour, and 
serve them dry, with the following sauce — 
in a boat: capers, anchovies, parsley, 
scallions, and garlic, all chopped very 
small, mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, 
and oil. : 

Goosr (Legs of) au Verd-pré.*—Put 
{ as many legs of geese as will fill a dish 
three or four hind quarters of geese, fry | into a saucepan, with a little lard and’ 
them lightly in their own fat; cut half a} some small onions; cover the saucepan 
dozen large onions into rings, take a part } quite close, and set it on the fire. When 
of the fat in which you have fried the | nearly done, take out the legs, and broil 
goose, and fry the onions; drain both | them a few minutes, to colour and dry 
them and the legs; dish them, with the | them a little: in the mean while, fry a 
onions laid on them, and serve with aj handful of parsley, (keep it as green as 
good potvrade, or any other sauce you | possible), lay it over a dish, and serve the 
please. ; legs on it. 

Goosr @ la Providence.*—Prepare a Goose, to Marinate.—Cut a goose up 
goose in the usual way, and stuil with } the back, boneit; make a stuffing with a 
the following farce: take twenty small | few sage leaves, an onion or two, two 
pieces of streaked bacon (having soaked | apples, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, 
it well), twenty chipolata sausages, | lemon-peel, nutmeg, yolk of egg; stuff 
twenty large mushrooms, twenty truffles, j it, sew it up the back, half roast it, or fry 
thirty chesnuts, and the same number | it; stew it with good gravy (covered 
of poached gwenelles, the size of the | closely), till it is tender; put in a little 
sausages (whieh, as well as the bacon, | red wine; strain and skim the sauce; 
must be previously cooked) ; put half of {| add cayenne, catsup, a little flour, salt, 
this in the goose; truss, and sew it'up as } (if necessary), a little lemon-juice; boil 
usual, and then put it in a braising-pan, | this up for a minute or two, then serve 
with some slices of veal, two slices of } it over the goose. 
ham, two onions, two cloves, and a Goose @ la Mode.—Take a large stub- 
bunch of sweet herbs, seasoned; cover | ble goose; when ‘it is picked, bone and 
the goose with bacon and a buttered | slit it down the back; take a fowl, and 
paper; pour in a glass of Madeira wine, | do it in the same manner ; take alsoa 
and some good consommé. Let it stew | neat’s tongue, boil and blanch it ; season 
gently over a slow fire for two hours; | the fow! with pepper and salt, and beaten 
then take it off, strain the liquor, and { mace, and roll it round the tongue, but 
reduce it to half, having removed all the } first put some beef marrow over the 
fat; strain it a second time. Put the} tongue; then put the fowl into the 
remainder of the truffles, bacon, &c., |] goose, and sew it up; before the fowl is 
with the addition of some cockscombs } put into the goose, roll some thin slices 
and kidneys, into a little of the liquor, | of ham or bacon round it; put the goose 
and heat them; then, having drained | into a small pot, with two quarts of beef 
and dished your goose, Jay the truffles, | gravy, and the bones of the goose and 
&c. round, and pour the sauce over it. fowl; when it begins to boil, let it stew 

Goose (Legs of) en Purée.*—Take | very gently for an hour ; then take up 
half a dozen very plump goose legs, and | the goose, skim all the fat from the 
having boned them, season them with] gravy; strain it, and put in a glass of 
salt and coarse pepper, and supply the | red wine, two spoonsful of catsup, a veal 
places of the bones, with bacon cut small; | sweetbread, parboiled and cut into slices, 
then close the meat over, and tie them, | truffies, morels, and mushrooms, a piece 
taking care to shape them well. Put} of butter rolled in flour, and some yolks 
them into a stewpan, lined with sliced } of eggs, boiled hard, with a little pepper 
bacon ; cover them with the same; put | and salt; put in the goose, cover it close; 
into the pan also three carrots, four } stew it half an hour longer, then take it 
onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, a/{ up, put it ina dish, and serve the ragott 
little thyme, and a ladleful of broth ;-let | over mitene care to skim off all the fat. 


leaf, thyme, and basil, between each. 
layer; cover them with a cloth, and let | 
them stand thus, twenty-four hours}, 
after which, take them out, drain and sim- | 
mer them in water; drain them again. 
Take all the fat from the bodies of the. 
geese, not excepting the inside fat, and 
Fale pegle it in the same manner as hog’s | 
ard; and when the legs and wings are 
perfectly tender, and cold, put them as 
close as possible; pour in the fat when | 
about three parts cold, and let them 
stand together twenty hours, then cover 
the pots closely with paper, and set them 
by in.a dry cool place. 

Goose Legs & la Lyonnaise.*—Take | 











GOO 


_ Goose Pie (Common).—Make a raised 


crust, quarter the goose, well season it, 


lay it into the crust; half a pound of 
butter at the top, cut into pieces; lay on 
the lid; bake it gently. 
_. Goose Pre (Rich).—Bone.a goose and 

a fowl, season them very well; put force- 
meat into the fowl, and then put the 
fowl into the goose; put these into a 
raised crust, fill the corners with a little 
forcemeat; cut half a pound of butter 
into pieces, lay them on the top; put on 
the cover; bake it well. Serve cold. 

Goose au Ragoitt.—Break the breast- 
bone of the goose, and make it quite flat 5 
when it is skinned, dip it into boiling 
water ; season it with pepper, salt, and 
a little mace beat to powder; lard and 
flour it all over; take nearly a pound of 
beef suet, put it into a stewpan, an 
when melted and boiling hot, put in the 
_ goose; when it is brown all over, add to 

it aquart of beef gravy, boiling hot, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, 
a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few 
small onions, and a bay-leaf; cover it 
closely, and let it stew gently; if it isa 
small yoose, an hour will be sufficient 5 
if a large one, it will take half an hour 
more. Make a ragoit for it as follows: 
cut some turnips, onions, and. carrots, 
as for a harrico of mutton, all boiled 
enough, half a pintof rich beef gravy; 
put them ali into a saucepan, with some 
pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled 
in flour; let them stew gently a quarter 
of an hour; take the goose out of the 
stewpan when done; drain it well from 
the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a 
dish, and serve the ragoft over it. 

Goose Roasted. — A stubble goose 
should be stuffed with sage and onions, 
chopped small, and mixed with pepper 
and salt; boil the sage and onion in a 
little water before they are chopped, or 
mix a few bread crumbs with them when 
chopped; either will render them less 
strong. Put it first at a distance from 
the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. 
A slip of paper should be skewered on 
the breast bone. SBaste it very well. 
When the breast is rising, take off the 
paper, and be careful to serve it before 
the breast falls, it will be spoiled by 
coming to table flattened. Serve it with 
g00d gravy and apple sauce, in. boats. 
It will take about an hour and a half to 
roast. 

Goose Smoked.—Take a large stubble 
goose: take off all the fat; dry it tho- 
roughly inside and out, with a cloth; 
wash it all over with vinegar, and then 
rub itover with some common salt, salt- 
petre, and a quarter of a pound of coarse 
sugar ; rub the salts well in, and let it lie 


( 270 ) 








GOO 
a fortnight; then drain it well, sew it up 


in acloth, and hang it in the chimney to 


dry. Itshould hang fora month. Sauce, 
onions, greens, es »\o-snet a ONE 

GOOSEBERRY Cakes.— Break the 
gooseberries, press out the juice, and 
strain it through a muslin; to one 
pint of juice a pound of sugar; boil up 
the juice; strew in the sugar: stir it 


well; simmer it well till the sugar is 


melted; pour it into glasses: dry it in 
a stove till it will turn out, then dry the 
cakes on plates. cnt. BEMh 
GooseBerriss (Green), Compote of.— 
Give them a little cut on one side to 
squeeze out the seeds, and put them in 
hot water to seald, till they rise to the 
top; then put cold water to them, adding 
a little salt, to bring them to their na- 
tural green; simmer them in clarified 
sugar, and let them remain in some time 
to imbibe the sweet; take them out, 
and put them in the compotier; reduce 
the syrup to a good consistence, and 
pour it over the fruit. This is for green 
gooseberries; but if you make use of pre= 
served ones, warm them in their own 
syrup and a little water, and serve it 
either hot or cold. These will not keep 
long, particularly if they have been 
warmed again: if exposed to the air any 
time, they will lose their colour,  —s_— 
GoosEBERRIES (Ripe) Compote of.— 
Prepare some sugar to the éighth de- 
gree (petite plume); put the gooseberries 
into it to,boil a moment, and let them 
cool before you skim them, if for present 
use; if for keeping, refine the sugar still 
more, by boiling. : 
GoosEBERRY Cream.—Boil one quart 
of gooseberries very quick, in as much 
water as will cover them, stir in about 
half an ounce of good butter ;. when they, 


; 


sweeten the pulp while it is hot, with 


four eggs; serve in a dish, cups, or 
glasses. Sd 

into a stone jar, with some fine Lisbon 
sugar; put the jar either in a stove, or 


in a saucepan of water, over the fire; if 


in a stove, a large spoonful of water 
should.be added to the fruit. When itis 
done to pulp, press it through a colan- 
der; have ready a sufficient quantity of 
new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, 
boiled together, or you may use an egg 


instead of the cream; leave it to_get 
} cold, then sweeten well with fine Lis- 


bon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees 
with it. . 


Goosrserry Hops.—Take the largest. 


green walnut kind, and cut the bud end 


in four quarters, leaving the stalk end 


are soft, pulp them through a sieve; 


sugar, then beat it up with the yolks of 


GoosEBERRY Foo].— Put gooseberries 


a 








7 


. 
G00 


whole; carefully pick out the seeds, and 
with a strong needle and thread, fasten 
‘five or six of them together, by running the 
thread through the bottoms. of them, till 


_they are the size ofa hop. Put vine leaves 


cold, pour it over them. 


at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan ; 
cover them with the hops, then a layer 
of leaves, and so on; lay a good many on 
the top, then fill the pan with water. 
Stop it so close, that the steam may be 
prevented from escaping ; set it by a slow 
fire till scalding hot, then take it off, and 
let it get cold, and so continue, till, on 
opening, while cold, the gooseberries are 
of a nice green. Then drain them on 
sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound 
of sugar to a pint of water ; boil and skim 
it well: when half cold, put in the fruit; 
the next day give it one boil; do this 
thrice. If the hops are to be dried, 
which way they eat best, and look well, 
they may be set to dry in a week; but if 
to be kept wet, make a syrup in the 
above proportions, adding a slice of gin- 
ger in boiling ; when skimmed and clear, 
give the gooseberries one boil, and when 
If the first 
syrup is found too sour, a little sugar 
may be added, and boiled in it, before 
the hops intended for drying are boiled 
for the last time. 

Goosrserry Jam.—Take what quan- 
tity you please of red, rough, ripe goose- 
berries; take half their quantity of lump 
sugar;break them well,and boil them toge- 
ther for halfan hour, or moreif necessary. 


Put it into pots, and cover with paper. 


Gooseserries fo Keep.— When the 
weather is dry, pick the gooseberries 
that are fall grown, but not ripe; pick 
off the tops and tails, and put them into 
open-mouthed bottles; gently cork them 
with quite new velvet corks ; put them in 
the oven after the bread is drawn, and 
let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; 
then take them out of the oven, and im- 
mediately beat the corks in tight, cut off 
the tops, and rosin them closely down ; 
get them in a.dry place, and if they are 
well secured from the air, they will keep 
the year round. 

If they are gathered in’ the damp, or 
the gooseberry skins are the leastcut in 
taking off the stalks and buds, they will 
mould. The hairy sort oniy are used 
for keeping, and they should be done be- 
fore the seeds become large. There are 
a variety of ways of keeping gooseberries, 
but this, we think, is one ot the best and 
most easy methods of preserving them. 

GoosELERRY Muarmalade.—Boil them 
a moment, or only scald them in boiling 
water, sift them through a sieve ; reduce 
them over the fire to half, then mix them 
with sugar prepared to the ninth degree 


(ML y 


GOO 


(a la grande plume), half a pound of sugar 
to a pound of fruit. 

GoosrBerry Paste.—Upon two pounds 
of fruit put about a glass of water; boil 
them a little while, and sift them through 
a sieve with expression 3 put it upon the 
fire again to reduce the juice to a soft 
paste consistence, stirring continually ; 
when it is come toa pretty thick sub- 
stance, add a pound of sugar prepared 
to the ninth degree (grande plume), stir- 
ring continually witi: a wooden spoon, 
till it becomes of a pretty substantial 
thickness. This paste ought to be ap- 
plied directly to what purpose you pro- 
pose. This is mostly done in moulds of 
different shapes and sizes, made like 
hoops, without tops or bottoms ; put them 
upon a baking plate to dry in a stove ofa 
moderate heat. Be careful to keep them 
in a dry place. 

Goossezerries, Clear Paste of.—Bruise 
the gooseberries, then boil them a mo- 
ment, and sift them, first in a sieve and 
then in a coarse stamine; to half a 
pint of this juice mix one pound of sugar 
boiled to the twelfth degree (au cassé), 
mix it by degrees with the sugar, beil it 
a moment, take it off the fire, skim it,and 
then give it two or three more boilings ; 
the way to know when it is perfectly pre- 
pared to put into cups or glasses, is by 
taking some with asilver spoon, and if it 
falls out in turning over, and extendsa 
little, like pretty firm jelly, it is done. 

GooseBerry Pie.— Line your dish 
with a nice puff-paste: lay in your 
gooseberries 3 sweeten it well ; put on the 
cover,and finish the same asall other pies. 

GoosEBERRIES Preserved. — Put one 
quart of red currant juice to five pounds 
of loaf.sugar; set iton the fire, and when 
the sugar is dissolved, put in eight 
pounds of red, rough, ripe gooseberries 3 
let them boil half an hour, then’ put 
them into anearthen pan, and leave them 
to stand for two days; then boil them 
again, till they look clear, put them into 
pots, and let them stand a week to dry a 
little at the top ; then cover them with 
brandy papers. 

GoosEserry Pudding (Baked).—Scald 
a pint of green gooseberries, then rub 
them through a sieve; put to them half 
a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, 
three Naples’ biscuits, four eggs well 
beaten; mix the whole weil together, 
and let it bake half an hour. 

GooseBerry ‘Pudding (Botled).—This 
pudding is made in the same manner as 
Apple pudding. 

GoosEseRRY Sauce.*—Take two hands- 
full of half ripe gooseberries, open them, 
and take out the seeds; blanch them in 
alittle salt and water, and drain them. 





GRA 


Put two spoonsful of velouté, and the 
same of butter-sauce into a saucepan, 
mix them together well, and heat them ; 
throw in the gooseberries, stir them well; 
season the sauce according to taste, with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is 
eaten with boiled mackarel: fennel may 
be added or not, at pleasure. 

GoosEBERRY Syrup, — Bruise them, 
with one fourth part of cherries; sift 
in acloth, and mix the juice with sugar 
prepared to the ninth degree (a da grande 
plume), one pound to half a pint of juice; 
simmer together till the sugar is aw 
perlé. 

GoosEBERRY (Green) Tart.—You may 
use them either whole, or make a mar- 
malade of them, with a good syrup; the 
last way is considered the best method, 
as by this means you can judge easily 
how sweet they are, and ought to be ; if 
made of marmalade, the seeds should be 
taken out. 

GoosEBERRIES ix an Open Tart, with 
or without Cream.—Pick and scald some 
young gooseberries, then, with short 
paste, make a tart of them the same as 
you would any other, and serve it cold ; 
or it may be done thus: when the tart is 
cold, take off the top crust, and cut it in 
three corner shapes; beat up nearly a 
pint of thick cream, and when beaten 
up, mix it in a little powder-sugar ; then 
spread it nicely over the gooseberries, 
and garnish it round with crust. 

GoosEBERRY Trifle.—Scald a sufficient 
quantity of gooseberries, as, when pulped 
through a sieve, will make a thick layer 
at the bottom of a dish, and sweeten it 
with sugar according to taste. Mix half 
a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and 
the yolk of an egg; give it a scald over 
the fire, stirring all the time; do not let 
it boil ; add a little sugar, and leave it to 
get cold; lay it over the gooseberries 
with a spoon, and then put on it a whip, 
which should be made the day before, as 
for any other trifle. 

GoosEBERRY /Vinegar.—Bruise some 
gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to 
three quarts of water put one quart of 
gooseberries in alarge tub. Let them 
remain sixty hours, stirring them fre- 
quently; then strain them through a 
hair bag, and to every gallon of the liquor 
add one pound of coarse sugar; stir it 
well together; put it into a barrel and 
a toast and yeast; cover the bung-hole 
with a bit of slate, and let itstand nine or 
ten months. The greater quantity of 
sugar and fruit, the stronger the vine- 


are 
oe AMES) Vomsbte of,*—Boil a. quare 
ter of a pound of sugar with half a glass 
of water, till it is reduced to a strong 


( 272 ) 


GRA 


syrup; skim, and then put into it a 
pound of grapes, picked from the stalks, 
and the seeds taken out; give them a - 
boil two or three times, and then place 
them in a dessert dish: if there is any 
scum upon them, carefully wipe it o 
with white paper. "y 

Graves Dried.*—Take some fine mus- 
cadine grapes; place them on hurdles, 
and put them into the oven, turning 
them, carefully, frequently; when the 
grapes are quite dry, put them into a deal 
box, hermetically closed, lightly covering 
them with brown sugar and bay-leaves.. 

Grapes, Dried in Bunches. — Take 
some preserved grapes, wash them with 
warm water, put them on sieves, and 
into a hot stove, keep turning them every 
day, changing the sieve ; |,when they are 
thoroughly dried, put them into boxes. _ 

Grape Ice. — Take ripe grapes, pick 
them from their stalks, pass them through 
a sieve ; mix some sugar with the juice 
ofyfour lemons squeezed upon it; pass 
the whole together a second time through 
a sieve, then freeze it. 

Grave Jelly.*—Take out the stones, 
then mash the grapes with your hands, 
(they must be ripe) then squeeze them 
through a cloth to extract all the juice 
from them, and boil and finish the same 
as currantjelly. Use halfa pound of su- 
gar to each pound of fruit. ; 

Grapes Pickled. — The grapes must 
be at their full growth, but not ripe, cut 
them in small bunches ; put them in a 
stone jar, with vine leaves between each 
layer of grapes, till the jar is full; then 
take as much spring-water as will cover 
the grapes and the leaves; as it heats 
put in. as much salt as will make a brine 
sufficiently strong to bear an egg; you 
must use half bay-salt and half commone- 
salt; when it boils, skim it; strain it 
through a flannel bag, and let it stand 
to settle; by the time it is cold it will 
be quite settled; strain it a second 
time through a flannel-bag ; then pour it 
inte the jar, upon the grapes, which 
must be well covered; fill the jar with 
vine leaves; then tie it over with a 
double cloth, and set a plate upon it; let 
it stand for two days, then take off the 
cloth, pour away the brine, and take out 
the leaves and the grapes, and lay them 
between two cloths to dry; then take 
two quarts of vinegar, one quart ofspring- 
water, and one pound of coarse sugar, 
boil it for a short time, and skim it ve 
clean as it boils; let it stand till it is 

uite cold; wipe the jar very clean and 
ry, lay some fresh vine Jeaves at the 
bottom, between every bunch of grapes, 
and on the top ; then pour and strain the 
pickle on the grapes}; fill the jar; let the 


. a ' a 
ee ee ee ee ef 





—-" 








GRA ( 273 ) GRA 


pickle be above the grapes; tie upa thin 
piece of board in a flannel, lay it on the 
grapes to keep them under the pickle; 
tie then down with a bladder, and over 
that a leather. Always keep the grapes 
under the pickle. | 

Grapes Preserved (in Clusters).—Take 
the large Gascoigne grapes belore they 
are too ripe, and prick every one: to 
every pound of grapes puta pound and 
@ quarter of sugar; make a syrup of the 
verjuice, strained; when the sugar is 
quite clear, put the grapes (after they 
are strained into syrup) intoa deep jar, 
cover them close, and set them ina pot 
of scalding water over the fire to boil; as 
soon as the grapes are tender, take them 
up, and boil the syrup a little more; 
when they are half cold, put them into 
broad glasses or straight jars ; lay one 
eluster over the other, cover them with 
brandy paper, and tie them up. 

Grapes (Bell) to Preserve in Jelly.— 
Take the long, large, beil grapes, pick 
off the stalks, stone them, and put them 
into boiling water; scald them thorough- 
ly; take them from the fire, and cover 
them close to prevent the steam from 
escaping; then set them over a very 

ntle fire for two or three hours (but 

o not let them boil); takethem out, and 
put them into clarified sugar, more than 
will cover them, and give them a good 
boil ; skim them; boil a little more sugar 
toa strong soufié, take as much plum 
jelly as sugar, and give it a boil; then 
put the grapes to it; let themaill boil to- 
gether, skim them well, and put them 
into pots or glasses. 

Grares (Green) to Preserve.— Take 
the largest and best grapes before they 
are ripe, stone and scald them ; let them 
lay two days in the water they were scald- 
edin, then drain them, and put them 
into a thin syrup; heat them over a 
slow fire; the next day turn the grapes 
into a pan, and heat them the day after; 
then drain them, put them into clarified 
sugar, give them a good buil, skim them, 
and set them by; the next day boil more 
sugar to soufié, put it to the grapes, 
give them all a good boil, skim them, 
and set them in a warm stove ali night; 
the day after, drain the grapes, and lay 
them out to dry, first dusting them very 
well. 

Grapes, Ratafia of.*—Take some fine 
muscadine grapes, pick them from the 
stalks; bruise and press them, so as to 
extract all their juice; then dissolve 
some sugar in the grape juice, adding to 
it brandy and cinnamon; let the whole 
infuse for a fortnight; then strain it 
through a filtering bag, and bottle it off. 
The proper proportions are one pint of 


brandy, and ten ounces of sugar to one 
pint of grape juice. ; 

Grape Tart.—Make choice of the 
youngest grapes before the stone is form- 
ed ; pick and scald them the same as cur- 
rants or gooseberries, and finish the same 
as for all other tarts, only adding more 
sugar on account Of their tartness. 


Gravs /Vine.—Toone gallon of grapes 


put one gallon of water; bruise the 
grapes, let them stand a week without 
stirring ; then draw it off, and fine; put to 
a gallon of the wine three pounds of 
sugar; and then put itin a vessel, but 
it must not be stopped till it has done 
hissing. 

Grapes (Muscadine) Conserve of.— 
Grain a pound of muscadine grapes, boil 
them a moment, and sift them through a 
sieve; reduce the juice over the fire to a 
quarter part of what was sifted; put to it 
one pound of sugar prepared to the twelfth 
degree (au cassé) and let it boil a little ; 
then work it well together till it begins 
to grow white, warm the whole a moment 
then pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose; when it is cool, cut it into 
cakes of what size you please. : 

Graves (Muscadine) Paste of.— This 
paste is made the same as sour grapes, 
only that the grapes must not be bruised. 

Graves (Muscadine) Clear Paste of.— 
Boil about a pound of muscadine grapes, 
with a glassof water; boilalso two com- 
mon baking apples to a marmalade; sift 
them together first in a sieve, then ina 
linen cloth; refinea pound of sugar to the 
twelfth degree (aw cassé), and pour the 
liquid gently into it, constantly stirring 
it over a slow fire; itis come to perfee- 
tion when it leaves the spoon, being 
turned over like a jelly, and must then 
be dried in a stove the same as all others; 
these transparent pastes are cut out for 
use to what size and shape you please 5 
and so on of other kinds of fruit. 

Graves (Sour or Verjuice) Compote of .* 
—Take the seeds from four pounds. of 
sour grapes, throw them into cold water. 
Put some water on the fire, and as soon 
as it boils putin the grapes; when they 
rise, take them from the fire, and cover 
them with a cloth till cold, then let them 
simmer over a slow fire, taking care that 
they do not boil; when they are green 
drain them from the water. In the 
meantime clarify and boil two pounds of 
sugar to lissé; then put in the grapes, 
and having boiled} them together a little 
while, take it off and skim it; when cold, 
drain away the sugar, and put the fruit 
into a compotier ; boil the sugar once or 
twice more, skim, and pour it over the 
verjuice. ; 

Grares (Sour) Conserve of.—It is pre- 


ne 


GRA ( 274) GRA 


served in the same manner as muscadine 
grapes, only itrequires thata little more 
sugar is added to the same proportion of 
juices. 

Grapes (Sour) Jelly.*— The jelly of 
sour grapes requires a pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit; itis made the same 
as ripe grape jelly; but a little sweet 
grape juice must be added, besides the 
sugar, to take off the great acidity. 

Grave. (Sour or Ferjuice) Marmalade 
of.*—Take the seeds from six pounds of 
unripe grapes, put them into a saucepan 
of water, over the fire ; as soon as they 
rise and swell take them from the fire, 
put in a little lemon-juice, cover, and let 
them stand on hot ashes till quite green; 
put them into a pan and let them cool; 
then rub them through a sieve, and put 
thei again on the fire todry; that done, 
put the fruit into a pan, add to it five 
pounds of sugar, clarified and boiled to 
cassé ; stir it in well, and then set it 
again on the fire, stirring constantly till 
it is of the proper consistence; then put 
it into pots. 

Observe, in making this and barberry 
marmalade, that itshould be put into an 
earthen pan when left to cool. 

GraPes (Sour or Verjuice) Paste.*— 
Take the proposed quantity fof grapes, 
(take out the seeds), and swell them over 
the fire, stirring them constantly, add a 
few apples, pared and cut im pieces, till 
thoroughly dissolved, then pass it through 
a fine sieve into a preserving pan, set it 
on the fire; when dry, weigh it; take 
an equal weight of sugar, boil it to fort 
soufié ; put the marmalade to it, stir it 
incessantly till it quits the bottom of the 
pan easily, when it may be putin moulds 
or paper cases, and dried in the stove or 
oven, sprinkling it with fine sugar. 

Grares (Sour) Paste of.— Grain the 
grapes, and thoroughly bruise them; 
then boil them a moment in a little wa- 
ter, the kettle being covered; sift them, 
and put the juice upon the fire again, to 
bring it toa strong marmalade ; weigh as 
much sugar as the weight of the fruit, 
and refine it to the ninth degree (@ la 
grande plume) mix the sugar and mar- 
malade well together over a very slow 
fire, give the paste what form you please, 
and dry it immediately. This paste is 
often made by mixing about half the 
quantity of apples with the grapes, being 
peeled, cut into pieces, and reduced to 
marmalade ; siftit as usual, and dry it 
to a paste consistence ; then add as much 
weight of sugar (a la grande plume) as 
the paste, and finish the same as the 

other. 

Grapes (Sour) Clear Paste of.—Mix a 


spoonful of applemarmalade with a glass 
of water, and a glass of verjuice grape 
juice, which is almost ripe ; boil a pound 
of sugar to the twelfth degree (au, cassé); 












to coo) toa jelly orjam. 

Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Preserved.* 
Take out all the seeds, and weigh the 
same number of pounds of sugar as you 
have pounds of grapes; put part of the 
grapes into a saucepan, and put part of 
the sugar powdered over them, continu- 
ing to put the sugar and grapes in layers’ 
till you have used the whole quantity; 
then put the grapes over a slow fire, 
letting them boil gently till they become 
green, then put them into pots. 

Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice, Preserved 
Liquid.* — Take the seeds from two 
pounds of the sour grapes, make some 
water boil in a preserving pan, and then 
put in thegrapes; give them one boil, 
keeping the fire moderate; cover, and let 
it stand fiveor six hours; then drain 
| them. Boil two pounds of sugar to la 
petite plume, put in the grapes, let them 
| boil up twice (covered), ,skim, and put 
them into pots. 

Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Preserved 
Dry.*—Prepare two pounds of grape’ as 
| directed for the liquid preserved. Boil 

your sugar to per/é ; putin the fruit, and 


day drain off the sugar, boil it to grand 
perlé, put the fruit in, boil them together 
(the pan covered), skim, and set it by the 
| day following; drain the grapes, lay 


|and set them to dry in a stove or 
Graves (Sour) or Verjuice Syrup.*— 
Take the seeds from three pounds of sour 
grapes, pound the latter to obtain the 
Juice, which strain through a jelly bag, as 
many times as you find necessary, to 
have it very clear. Clarify four pounds 
of sugar, and boil it to fort soup, add 
to this a pint of the clear juice, and 
| give them one boil together. When 
| quite cold it may be bottled. ae 
Grapes, (Sour) Tart of.—Stone the 
grapes, and scald them in boiling water 3 
then thoroughly drain them, and simmer 
them a little ina rich syrup; when this 
is cold, put it into the paste without 
covering ; glaze the border of the tart 
with sugar. nh es 
Grapes (Sour), Preserved Tart of.— 
Use the same sort of moulds as you 
for petits padtés, with the second best puff 
paste; fill them with the best preserved 
verjuice grapes, cover them with paste, 
and solder them, by wetting the borders 


add the mixture to it slowly, stirring 
without boiling it, and put it into moulds — 


boil them up several times. The next — 


them onslates, sprinkle them with sugar, 





_ ie 


— ea — ti a in 


ae 


fs 26 ee 





GRA ( 275 ) 


all round with water, and then pressing 
them together ; either glaze them with 


sugar, or serve in their natural colour. 
Grares, (Sowr,) or Verjuice, Vinegar 
of.—Crush the quautity of grapes you 
“may require, before they are ripe, and 
leave them to ferment in an open vessel 
for thirty days; then obtain the juice by 
means of a press; let the liquor stand for 
a whole day to clarify. Filter it through 
‘blotting paper. It is preserved by having 

alayer ofoilonthetop. | 

GRATIN.*—Cut half a pound of fillet 
of veal into dice, and put it into a stew- 
' pan with a piece of butter, a few mush- 
rooms, parsley, shalots, chopped small, 


salt, pepper, and spices; stir them up. 


with a wooden spoon ; and when the meat 
has been on the fire about a quarter of an 
hour, take the drain off the butter, mince 
it very small, and put it into a mortar, 
with fifteen fowl or game livers, well 
washed, dried, and parboiled, all the bit- 
ter parts taken out, pound them, adding 
at times as much panada as you have 
meat; boil some calf’s udder, trim, and 
remove all the skin when cold, and put 
about a third of the quantity of meat, and 
pound them together, adding, one at a 
time, three yolks, and three whole eggs ; 
season with salt, pepper, and spices; 
when well pounded, set it by in an 
earthen pan for use. : 

GRAVIES, Directions respecting.— 
The skirts of beef and the kidney, will 
make quite as good gravy as any other 
meat, if prepared in the same manner. 

 Thekidney of an ox, or the milt, makes 
excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and 
prepared as other meat; and so will the 
shank-end of mutton that has been dress- 
ed, if much gravy is not required. 

The shank-bones of mutton add 
greatly to the richness of gravy; but 


they should be first well soaked, and 


‘Scoured clean. 

To obtain the flavour of French 
cookery, and to improve the taste of the 
gravies, tarragon should be used ; but it 
must not be added till. a short time be- 
fore serving. 

GRAVY.*—Take three pounds of beef- 
steaks, two rabbits, (excepting the heads 
and breasts,) a knuckle of veal, five car- 
rots, six onions, two cloves, two bay- 
leaves, a bunch of parsley and scallions; 
put all these into a stewpan, with two 
lJadlesful of broth, and set them over a 
good fire to reduce; then cover the stove 
and let the stewpan stand over it, until 
the meat begins to give out the gravy, 
and adheres slightly; the jelly at the 
bottom of the stewpan ought to be 
nearly black, and when that is the case, 
take it from the stove, and let it stand for 


GRA? 


ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan 
with good broth, or water, (if the latter, 
not so large a quantity) ; let this simmer 
for three hours; skim and season it 
well. Jf water is used instead of broth, 
the gravy must be strained before it is 
used. i 

Gravy may also be made of any pieces 
of ready dressed meat, in the following 
manner: cut some onions into slices, lay 
them at the bottom of the stewpan, and 
the meat on them, with the same ingre- 
dients as above, and two or three glasses 
of water ; then proceed in the same man- 
ner as the other, until the bottom of the 
stewpan is nearly black, when add water 
according tothe quantity of meat; put 
salt if necessary, and simmer the whole 
for two hours ; then strain it through # 
sieve. 

Gravy (Clear.)—Slice some beef thin- 
ly; broil a part of it over a very clear 
quick fire, just enough to give colour to 
the gravy, but not'to dress it; put that, 
with the raw, into a very nicely tinned 
stewpan, with a couple of onions, jone or 
two cloves, whole black pepper, berries 
of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs; 
cover it with hot water, give it one boil, 
and skim it two or three times; then 
cover it, and let it simmer till quite 
strong. 

Gravy d’ Etouffade.*—Take a leg of 
beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves 
of garlic, and the same number of cloves}; 
put halfa dozen large onions into a stew- 
pan, with the beef, six or eight allspice, a 
little nutmeg, half a bottle of Madeira 
wine, and some consommé ; boil it over 
a large fire until reduced to a jelly ; then 
place your stewpan over a stove, and 
cover it with hot ashes ; leave it for some 
time, and when it is of a dark colour, 
without being either bitter or burnt, 
moisten it with broth; add some veal or 
fow] trimmings; and when the whole is 
sufficiently done, strain it through a 
cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take 
off the fat, add two. or three ladlesful of 
espagnole toit, and reduce it to the proper 
consistence. 

Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no 
Meat to make tt of.—Nicely wash the feet 
ofa fowl, and cut them, and the neck, into 
small pieces; simmer them with a little 
browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of 
parsley, and thyme; some pepper and 
salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quar- 
ter of a pint of water, simmer them till 
they are reduced to half. Take out the 
liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. 
Then thicken it with flour and butter, 
and add a teaspoonful of mushroom 
catsup. * 

Gravy without Mcat.—Take a basin, 


ote as 


GRE 


and put into it a glass of table-beer, a: 
glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-_ 
veel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a 
spoonful of walnut pickle, or mushroom. 


catsup; cut an onion in slices, flour, 
and fry itin a piece of butter until it is 
brown; then turn all the above into a 
small tosser with the onion, and simmer 
it, covered, for twenty minutes. Strain it 
off for use, and when it is cold, take off 
the fat. 

Gravy to make Mutton eat like Veni- 
son.—Take.a stale woodcock or snipe, and 
cut it to pieces, (first cut out the bag 
from the entrails), and simmer it with as 
much unseasoned meat-gravy as you 
want. Strain it, and serve in the dish with 
‘your meat. 

_ Gravy, Petits Pétés of.*—Roll some 
puff-paste to a proper thickness, and cut 
it into round pieces with a circular paste- 
cutter; lay half their number in small 
moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of 
godiveau, proportioned to the size of the 
petits padtés, cover them with the remain- 
‘ing pieces, dorez, and bake them. When 
done, open them, cut the godzveau into 
pieces, and pour into each some good 
gravy, in which are mushrooms cut in 
dice ; this however must not be done un- 
til the petits pdtés are to be seit to table. 

Gravy of Roots.*—Roast some onions 
and parsnips on hot ashes, clean, and 
then slice them into a stewpan; and 
when they give out yellowish brown juice, 
moisten them with a glass of clear vege- 
table broth, and boil them with a little 


' salt, an onion, and a clove, for a quarter 


ofan hour; then rub it through cloth or a 


sieve, and set it by for use. ’ 


Gravy Soup.—Take a leg of beef, and 
well wash and soak it; break the bone, 
and put it into a stewpan with a gallon of 
water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two 
large onions sliced, and fried to a nice 
brown, taking great care that they are 
not burnt, two blades of mace, three 
cloves, twenty berries of al!spice, and 
forty of black pepper. Stew till the soup 
is as rich as you wish it to be; then take 
out the meat ; when it is cold take off the 
fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, and 
the nicest part of a head of celery boiled, 
and cut to pieces, cayenne, and a little 
salt; carrot may be added, with turnips, 
cut into small pieces, and boiled with 
spinach and endive; or, the herbs with- 
out the vermicelli, or vermicelli only; 
add also a large spoonful of soy, and one 
of mushroom catsup. A French roll 
shovld be made hot, put into the soup 
ull moist through, and served in the 
tureen, 

GREEN GAGES in Brandy.—Take 
some preserved green-gages, and drain 


( 276 ) 


'GRE 


all the syrup from them; put them into a 
jar, and to every quart of brandy put five 
ounces of sugar; when the sugar 18 
melted, pour it over the gages; then 
cover them very close with bladder and 


leather, and keep the jar filled with 


brandy. yPethe vy 

GREEN-GAGES fo Candy.—When finish- 
ed in the syrup, (see green-geges to pre- 
serve,} put a layer into a new sieve, and 


dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off 


the syrup that hangs about it; then put 
it on a napkin before the-fire to drain, 
and then do some more on the sieve. 
Have ready some sifted double-refined 
sugar, sift this all over every part of the 
fruit, till itis perfectly white. Set it on the 
shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm 
oven, and turn it two or three times. It 
must not be cold till dry. Watch it 
carefully. / 
GREEN-GAGES, Compéte of. — Take 
green-gages, prick them with a pin, and 
set them on the fire in a pan of cold 
water, till they are a little softened ; then 
take them off, and Jet them cool in the 
same water; when that is done, take the 
highest degree of clarified sugar, put 
your green-gages into it, and set them 
again on a very slow fire, to make them 
throw off their water and turn green; 
during this second operation, you must 
cover your pan with.a tin plate, that the 
steam may not escape; after which, take 
them out, and dress them in your dishes. 
GreeEn-GaGes Dried.—Take preserved 
green-gages, put them over the fire to 
warm, drain all the syrup from them, put 
them on sieves, and into the stove}; 
change them every day, and turn them, 
or they will stick, let them remain in the 
stove for three days, then put them into 
papered boxes, with a sheet of paper be- 
tween each layer of the fruit. 
GREEN-GAGE Jam.—Rub ripe green- 
gages through a large hair sieve, and put 
them into a preserving pan; then, to a 
pound of pulp, add a pound of sifted 
sugar; after which boil to a proper 
thickness, skim it clean, and put it into 
small pots. 
Green-Gaces to Preserve.—You must 
choose the largest, when they begin te 
soften ; split without paring them, and 
having previously weighed an equal 
quantity of sugar, strew a part of it over 
them; blanch the kernels with a small 
sharp knife; next day, pour the syrup 
from the fruit, and boil it with the other 
sugar, very gently, for six or eight 
minutes ; skim, and add the plums and 
kernels, Simmer till clear, taking off 
any scum that rises; put the frnit singly 
into small pots, and pour the syrup and 
kernels upon it. 





Oe ee ee 


A ee ee ce Lae i ae 


Ses SF, Oe 


cr 


ee ee ee en ee 


— 


1 - 
Cs) 


GUR 


Green-caces, Preserved Wet.—Your 
green-gages shonld be perfectly sound, 
prick them seven times or more about 
the stalks; put them into cold water, 
otherwise they will turn black; scald 
them, and have another preserving pan 
with boiling syrup ; strain the water from 
the green-gages, and put them into a 
deep earthen pan ; place them regularly, 
and pour the boiling syrup over them; 
then let them stand till the next day, 
then drain all the syrup from them ; boil 
it again, and put it over them ; repeat so 
for seven or eight days, then take another 
flat earthen pan, drain the syrup from 
them, place the green-gages in this pan ; 
boil some fresh syrup for half an hour, 
and pour it over them, cover them up 
until they are wanted for use; or you 
may put them into pots. 

Green Sauce,—Mix together a quarter 
ofa pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white 
wine, and some scalded gooseberries ; add 
sugar, and a bit of butier. Boil them up. 

GROUSE Roasted. — Grouse should 
have their heads twisted under the wing. 
They must be reasted like fowls, but not 
be over done. Serve with a rich gravy 
in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce 
for wild-fowl may be used instead of 
common gravy. 

GRUEL.—Wash two ounces of fresh 
grits in warm water several times, and 
boil itin a quart of water, till the liquid 
is reduced to about a pint; then strain it 
through a cloth, and add a spoonful of 
white wine, and a little sugar; boil it a 
moment before using. 

Grave (Water).—Rub smooth a large 
spoonful of oatmeal, with two spoonsful 
of water, and put it into a pint of water 
boiling on the fire: stir it well, and boil! it 
quick ; taking care that it does not boil 
over; in a quarter of an hour strain it 
off; andif you choose, add salt and a bit 
of butter when eaten. 

Another way.—Put a large spoonful of 
oatmeal by degrees, into one pint of 
water, and when it is stirred quite 
smooth, boil it. 

GUDGEONS {to choose.—Gudgeons 
are chosen by the same rules as other 
fish ; they are caught in running streams, 
and come in about Midsummer, and re- 
main in season five or six months; you 
may dress them in the same manner as 
smelts. 

Gupezons.*—This fish is most com- 
monly fried; scale, empty, and wipe 
thein clean, without washing them, flour 
them, and put them into a good boiling 
friture of lard or butter. 

Guperuns au Court-bouillon.*—Emp- 
ty, and wash your fish, then boil them in 


( 277 ) 


GUM 


a court-boutllon, of equal quantities of 
wine, and maigre broth: add salt, pep- 
per, and a few artichoke bottoms; when 
done, reduce the liquor, and serve them 
hot. 

Guparons Stewed.* —Scale, empty, 
and wipe the gudgeons clean, without 
washing them; then take the dish upon 
which you serve, and put into it some 
butter, with parsley, green onions, mush- 
rooms, a couple of shalots, thyme, a bay- 
leaf, and basil, all cut fine; add salt and 
pepper ; place the gudgeons on this, sea- 
soning them over and under, and moist- 
ening the whole with a glass of red wine 5 
cover the dish, and set it over a brisk 
fire, till the sauce is almost consumed ; 
they will not reguire more than a quarter 
of an hour to cook. You may dress 
smelts in the same manner, but they 
must neither be scaled or emptied, but 
only wiped clean. 

GUM Paste.—Put a pound of gum- 
dragon in a basin with warm water 
enough to cover one inch above the gum; 
set this in a warm closet for four and 
twenty hours; have a new tammy ready 
laid over a dish; spread it on it, and 
squeeze through as much as you can at 
first ; then open the tammy, Spread the 
gum ont again, and then squeeze it; re- 
peat this till the whole is through; then 
jay it on the slab, work it well with your 
hand, put in nearly ail the juice of one 
lemon, anda pound of the best double 
refined powder-sugar, by degrees, as you 
work it; but before you have put in the 
whole of the sugar, begin toadd some of 
the best starch powder; blend them 
thoroughly together, till the paste begins 
to take an impression; then rollit ina 
cloth, and let it standin a damp place 
for a week or ten days, (it is the better 
for keeping), work it with powder, and it 
will cut and mould to any shape you 
please, and when you want it to harden, 
set it in a dry place; if you wish to colour 
it, to make it red, use cochineal or car- 
mine}; for blue or violet colour, use in- 
digo; for yellow, saffron; fur green, the 
juice of beet-leaves, scalded over the 
fire, the thick part mix with the paste. 
When you put in colours, be careful to 
blend them well, and be particular that 
the colour is good. 

GURNETS to Broil.—Having cut off 
their heads, dip them in melted butter, 


with salt, .and broil them, but not over 


too fierce a fire. Serve them either with 
plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as 
follows: put some fresh butter, a little 
flour, and a leek, into a saucepan, with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with 
ogi eo water; add a couple oi an- 


HAG 


chovies, keep it on the fire, shaking con- 
stautly till the fish are done, dish them, 
and pour the sauce over. 


HADDOCKS. — Are chosen by the 
same rules as cod, and are in season 
during July, August, and September. 

Haddocks are plain boiled in the same 
manner as cod, or broiled like whitings ; 
both are served with anchovy sance; 
either way they are good with a stuffing 
inside. 

The dried haddock should be soaked a 
short time in warm water, then laid ona 
gridiron, cver a very clear fire, an 
slightly broiled ; send them to table in a 
napkin, and eat them with cold butter. 

Happocts Botled.— Fill a fish kettle 
with cold spring water, to which add 
plenty of salt; put the haddocks into this, 
over the fire; as soon as they begin to 
boil, salt them well, and set them by the 
fire to simmer; when done, drain them 
thoroughly from the water, dish them, 
and serve with Dutch sauce. : 

Happocts Brotled.*—Take the skins 
from the number of haddocks you intend 
to dress; and toss up the fish in some 
egg, beaten with pepper and salt; take 
them out, and bread them; then, having 
dipped them in clarified butter, bread 
them a second time; broil the haddocks 
to a nice colour, over a moderate fire 3 be 
sure both sides are done equally. Serve 
them over a good /falienne sauce. 

Hapvock Dried.—Take the eyes, gills, 
and entrails, from the fish, also any 
blood which may settle in them. Wipe 
them perfectly dry. and salt them; let 
them lay twenty-four hours, and then 
run a string through the eyes, and hang 
them in a dry place. 

HAGGIS.—Take the heart and lights 
of a sheep, blanch and mince them; then 
a pound of beef-suet (chopped fine), the 
crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, 
a little mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, and 
cloves, (all pounded), half a pint of 
sweet wine, a pound of raisins, stoned 
and chopped, asufficient quantity of flour 
to make it of a proper consistence, a little 
salt, the yolks of three eggs, and some 
sheep’s chitterlings, well cleaned and cut 
into slips. Mix these together; have 
‘ready cleaned a sheep’s bag, put in the 
above, tie it tight, and boil it three hours. 
- .Haaats Scotch. — Take the liver and 
lights of a sheep, boil them, the latter 
partly only, but the former till itis firm ; 
yrate half of it, and mince the lights, a 
piece of beef, some suet, and onions, mix 
these ingredients with dried flour, or 


( 278 ) 


HAM 


meal, sait, and pounded spice; ‘make 
some broth, with a little beef and the 
water in which the liver, &c. were boiled, 
and put it with the rest of the materials 
into a well cleaned sheep’s bag ; tie it up 
tight, and boilit. — 

HAM (Directions for choosing).—In 
choosing a ham, run a knife into it at the 
knuckle; if it comes out clean and smells 
sweet, the ham is good; butif, on thecon- 
trary, the blade of the knife is smeared 
and smells rank, it is not good. 

Hams (Howto Dress).—If the ham has 
hung for a length of time, put into 
water for a night; and let it lie either 
in a hole dug in the earth, or damp stones 
sprinkled with water, two or,three days, 
to mellow, covering it with a heavy tub, 
to keep any vermin from it ; wash well, 
and put it into a boiler with plenty of 
water; let it simmer, four, five or six 
hours, according to its size; when done 
enough, if before the time of serving, 
cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and 
keep the dish hot over boiling water ; 
take off the skin, and strew it all over 
with bread raspings; garnish with car- 
rot; preserve the skin as whole as pos- 
sible, to keep over the ham when cold, 
which will prevent its drying. 

Ham ¢o Boil.—Soak the ham, according 
to its age, for twelve or twenty-four hours. 
Put: it into a large saucepan full of cold 
water,.and, if a small] one, let it simmer 
for two hours, and then boil an hour and 
a half; when dene, pull off the skin, rub 
it over with yolk of egg, strew bread- 
crumbs over, and brown it before the 
fire, or with a salamander. 

Ham @ la Braise-—Having taken the 
rind from a well-flavoured ham, soak it 
in cold water, tie it into a proper shape ; 
take thus of ham and beef, beat and sea~ 
son them with spice and sweet herbs, 
shred small, lay them ina saucepan, with 
onions, carrots, and parsnips, sliced, 
parsley and scallions; put the ham on 
this, the fat side uppermost, cover it with 
slices of bacon, beef, roots and herbs, as 
under; put on the lid, close it tightly, 
and let it stand for twelve hours, with 
fire above and below. Set it by till cold, 
untie, and strew bread-crumbs on it, pass 
a salamander over to brown it. 

If it be served hot, pour on it the fol- 
lowing ragofit; toss up veal sweet-breads, 
livers of fowl, cock’s-combs, mushrooms, 


and truffles, in a little melted bacon; then 
‘put alittle gravy, and simmer them for 


half an hour; take off the fat, and add 
veal and ham cullis. , 

Ham en Cingarat.*—Fry, or {if you 
like it better) stew some thin slices of 
ham, in their own fat, over a slow fire; 
when done, toss up a little water, vine- 





eh 





HAM 


gar, and pepper, in the same pan}; pour 
this sauce on the ham, and serve. 

_ Ham, Essence of.—Take three or four 
pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces 
about an inch thick, and lay them in 
astewpan, with slices of carrots, pars- 
nips, and three or four onions ; let them 
stew till they stick to the pan, but take 
care they do not burn; then by degrees 
pour in some good veal gravy, a few fresh 
mushrooms cut in pieces, (or mushroom- 
powder,) truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, 
leek, basil, and a crust of bread; cover it 
close, and simmer till pretty thick, then 
strain it off for use. 

Ham Gravy.*—Take a deep saucepan, 
put into it a piece of fresh butter, seve- 
ral slices of ham, about six pieces of 
veal the size of a walnut, and two or 
three carrots cut in small pieces; set 
these. over a slow fire, and let them 
stand till they give out their juices, and 
the ham and veal become crisp and stick; 
then put in a little stock, and let it 
boil; in an hour’s time add a glass of 
white wine, leave it a quarter of an hour, 
when it will be sufficiently done; take 
off-every particle of fat; strain -it into 
a pan, and set it by for use. 

- Ham @ la Gelée.* —Take a fine colour- 
ed, well-flavoured ham, trim it properly, 
cutting the large bone in the middle; 
take off the skin, and pare away great 
part of the fat; then soak it in cold water, 
for twelve hours, if a young ham, but 
double that time if an old one, chang- 
ing the water frequently; that period 
expired, wrap it in a napkin, and put it 
into a braising-pan, or a large saucepan, 
full of water, with or without spices and 
herbs; let it boil pretty fast at first, 
then keep it boiling gently for five or 
six hours; then push in a larding pin, 
andif it comes out easily, the ham is 
sufficiently done; let it stand till luke- 
warm, lay it in a deep dish, cover it with 
a board, on which~ place about fifteen 
pounds; when cold, take off the nap- 
kin, trim it again carefully, and trace on 
the fat whatever ornament you may think 
proper, cover it.all over with jelly, put 
it into the oven, or pass a salamander 
over it, not within eight or ten inches 
from it; dish it, and surround it with 
pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or 
palm-branch of it on the top of the ham. 

Ham la Green.*—Rub your pork well 
with common salt, and let it lay all 
night; make a pickle of brine as fol- 
lows: take two pounds of common salt, 
one pound of bay salt, two ounces of 
saltpetre, one ounce of salt prunella, 
and one pound of brown sugar, pound 
thei well, and boil them in five pints 
of water;.when. cold, put in the ham; 
let it lay on the rind side three days; 


( 279 ) 


HAM 


then turn it every day for a fortnight ; 
when it may be taken out, and hung up. 
This pickle is equally good for tongues, 
or raised beef. 

Ham Loaf.—Soak a fine ham in cold 
water for one or two days, according to 
its age ; then putit into a saucepan just 
big enough to hold it, with no more water 
than will cover it, and a pint of white 
wine; let it boil, skimming it carefully, 
till done. When cold, take out the hock 
and under bones, and the skin; pare 
away some of the fat, and trim it to an 
oval form as much as possible. Makea 
farce with the parings of the fat, some 
veal‘or game, and sweet herbs minced 
and pounded. ‘Take a pan the size you 
wish to have your loaf, lay all over the 
inside a pretty firm paste, and then (hav- 
ing cut your ham into thin slices) place 
alternate layers of it and the farce in the 
pan, until it be quite full. Put a crust 
over the top, which must unite with that 
in which the ham is; turn it over on a 
baking plate, flour it,and put it intoa 
very hot oven for an hour and a half or 
two hours, according to its size. Serve 
it cold. 

Hams, to make.*—Make a brine of the 
following ‘ingredients :—Put into your 
pan or barrel, sage, thyme, basil, bay- 
leaf, balm, juniper berries, salt and salt- 
petre, equal proportions ofthe best wine- 
lees and water ; the proportions of these 
ingredients must, of course, depend on 
the quantity of brine required. When 
they have infused for some days, strain 
the liquor, press the herbs, throw a little 
water on the dregs to dissolve all the 
salt, press the herbs a second time, place 
your ham in the vessel, pour the brine 
over, and let it remain a month ; then 
take it out, drain and smoke it; when 
thoroughly dry, rubit all over with equal 
quantities of wine and vinegar, to prevent 
the flies from touching it; be sure to let 
it dry well. 

Ham in March-pane. — Take eight 
pounds of march-pane paste, knead it up 
with one pound of loaf sugar to whiten it, 
(and the longer you work them together 
the whiter it becomes); cut itin two parts, 
one about five pounds weight, the other 
three; put the latter aside. Then take 
of cinnamon, cloves, and dole armenia, 
halfan ounce each, pounded very fine, 
mix them with the largest portion, and 
add toita sufficient quantity of red san- 
dal to give it the fine colour of boiled 
ham ; the whole being well mixed, work 
it up in the form of a ham ; make several 
incisions in. it with a knife, in which in- 
sert very thin pieces of the white paste, 
to represent veins of fat in the lean ; then 
close these places with your hands.. Rol} 
the white paste to about two or three 


HAM 


inches thick, and having moistened the 
surface of your red paste with water, co- 
ver it with the white paste in imitation 
of the fat, taking care to make it thinner 
towards the knuckle and sides (as in real 
ham) than at the higher parts.. Then 
boil a quarter of a pound of chocolate in 
about a quarter of a pint of water, stir- 
ring constantly till it is tolerably thick, 
dip ahair pencil into it, and do the ham 
- over with it several times, until it forms 
a kind of crust, like the rind; this may 
be covered with crushed macaroons, to 
resemble the rasped bread with which 
a boiled ham is generally covered. The 
» chocolate must. be kept warm whilst the 
latter operation is being performed, as 
otherwise it will become quite hard; the 
flavour is greatly improved by adding 
vanilla to the chocolate. 

Hare @ la Manute.—Takea hare that 
has been kept some time, and cut it into 
pieces ; boil the liver, and put all toge- 
ther into a stewpan, with about an 
ounce of butter, pepper, salt, chopped 
parsley, shalots, mushrooms, and half a 
clove of garlic; cover it close, and turn 
it in eight or ten minutes; a quarter of 
an hour will cook it sufficiently: lay the 
meat in a dish, add a little broth and 
vinegar to the sauce, and when pretty 
thick, pour it on the hare. 

Ham au Naturel.*—Take a fine large 
ham, trim it in the following manner: 
take off the rind, and every particle of 
yellow which may be on the fat, take off 
also, the end bone, cut the knuckle, and 
soak the ham, and cook it as. directed, 
(ham &@ la gelée). When sufficiently 
done,untie the napkin, take out the bone, 
then tieit again, lay it in a deep dish 
and let it cool; trim it, and do it over 
with raspings ; serve it on a napkin. 

Ham Omelet.*—Take a slice of boiled 
ham, mince it as small as possible, and 
mix it with a dozen eggs beaten with a 
little veal gravy; fry it (keeping it of 
an equal thickness) in the usual man- 
ner. 

Ham Pze.—Bone a fine ham, and trim 
it properly, taking care to cut off all 
the yellow fat; soak it according to its 
age, and then braise it on slices of beef, 
a pound of bacon (beaten in a mortar), 
the same quantity of lard and butter, 
plenty of sweet herbs, roots, and whole 
pepper. When about three parts done, 
take it out, and let it cool; then makea 
thick raised crust, put the ham into it, 
with all the [braise, except the beef and 
herbs, a large glass of brandy ; bake it 
for an hour, and serve it cold. 

Ham P2e.*—Dress a fine ham as for 
la gelée (see that article); makea farce 
as follows :take a sous noiw of veal, 


( 280 ) 


HAM 


and mince it very small, with an equal 
quantity of bacon, and the trimmings of 
the ham when co!d (minced small also) 5 
season it with salt, pepper, spices, and 
sweet herbs, shred small; then take all 
the ingredients, and pound them toge- 
ther, adding occasionally, a smali quan- 
tity of jelly. Take three pounds of paste 


for raised crust, of which form the bot- | 


tom and sides of your pie, put it on two 
sheets of buttered paper ; lay some of the 
farce at the bottom of your pie, cut the 
ham in half, lay one piece on the farce, 
season, and cover it with the farce; then 
put in the other piece, season that also, 
and fill up your pie with the remainder 
of the farce, and a piece of butter rolled 
iv flour; moisten the borders of the pie, 
and puton the top, fasten the edges toge- 
ther, decorate the crust, and add, if 
you like, a false top of puff-paste; make a 
hole in the middle, dorez, and bake it in 
a hot oven for three or four hours; if, in 
the meanwhile, it is inclined to take too 
high a colour, cover it with a wet paper. 
Ham Potted.—Take a pound of cold, 
boiled, lean ham, and pound it to fine 
paste, with a quarter of a pound of the 
fat. or some fresh butter ; season it to 
your taste, with mace, allspice, pepper, 
and nutmeg (all in powder). Press it into 
potting dishes, pour clarified butter over 
it, and keep it inacool place. 
Ham (Ragodt of ).—Cut some thin slices. 
of ham, and having beaten them well, 
lay them at the bottom of a stewpan ; 
place a dish over them, and set the 
saucepan on a stove till they begin to 
stick ; then put in a little flour, and keep 
the pan moving; moisten with a little 
veal gravy that has no salt in it, add 
pepper and sweet herbs, and simmer over 
aslack fire; add veal and ham cullis to 
thicken ; set it before the fire, basting it 
well till it is a clear brown. In the 
meanwhile, take the fat from the gravy, 


thicken it with the yolk of an egg, add to. 


it half adozen hard eggs chopped small, 
and some pickled cucumbers cut ve 
thin; pour this sauce into a dish, place 
the ham in it, and serve, 

Ham Ragotit, with Sweet Sauce.*— 


Toss up a few slices of ham in asauce=: 


pan; make a sauce of red wine, white 
pepper, # macaroon, cinnamon, and su- 
gar, ali pounded; put the ham to this, 
squeeze in the juice of an orange, and 
serve it up. 

'Ham_ Roasted with Madeira.*—Take 
a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham, pare 
and trim it of as round a form as possi- 
ble, take off the end bone, and remove 
the rind from the knuckle; then lay the 
ham on a gridiron over the fire, till you 
can take it up with ease ; soak it, ifneces- 








HAM 


sary, and put it in a pan, with slices of 
carrots and onions, thyme, bay-leaf, and 
coriander ; pour a bottle of Madeira or 
Xeres upon it, cover it with a clean cloth, 
and close the pan as tight as possible, 
and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then 
wrap the ham in very thick paper, fasten 
it with paste, so that it may be com- 
etely enclosed, tie iton a spit, and put 
it to reast for three hours; then make 
asmall hole in the paper, and pour in, 
by means of a funnel, the Madeira wine, 
paste paper over the hole, and let it 
roast another hour. When done, take 
off the paper carefully, so that none of 
the gravy may escape, mix it with some 
reduced espagnole, glaze the ham, and 
serve it. 
_ Ham Roll.—Make a farce with some 
ham fat, and sweet herbs, chopped very 
fine; cut several thin slices of ready 
boiled or roasted Westphalia ham; have 
ready some French-roll dough, take a 
piece of it, flatten it with your hand to 
the size you want it, lay a slice of ham on 
it (soas to cover it), spread some farce 
over the ham, and on that a piece of 
dough flattened as before, then ham, 
farce, and dough again, and so on alter- 
nately, till the roll is as large as you 
wish it to be ; then cover the whole with 
dough, bake it in a moderate oven. Do 
not cut it till cold. 

Ham Sauce.—When a ham is almost 
done with, pick all the meat that re- 
mains, from the bone, leaving out any 
rusty part; beat the meat and the bone 
to a mash, with a rolling-pin ; put it into 
a saucepan, with three spoonsful of gravy; 
set it over a slow fire, and keep stirring 
it all the time, to prevent its sticking to 
the bottom. When it has been on some 
time, put to it asmall bundle of sweet 
herbs, some pepper, and halfa pint of 
veal gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew 
over a gentle fire. When it has a good 
flavour of the herbs, strain off-the gravy. 
A little of this is an improvement to all 
gravies. 

Ham and Spinach.* — Take a ham 
dressed as directed aw naturel, put it on 
a sheet of paper, and place it in a sauce- 
pan sufficiently large for it to goin with 
ease, and simmer it for two hours: with 
the following ingredients:—two carrots, 
two onions, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme and 
parsley (all shred very small, and pre- 
viously warmed up in butter), a bottle of 
white wine, andaspoonful of consommé; 
when these are half done, strain the li- 
quor over your ham, cover the saucepan, 
put fire on the lid, and Jet it simmer as 
above mentioned.. When done, glaze it 
several times lightly. Take some very 
green spinach, tossed up in butter, with 


( 281.) 


‘salt, nutmeg, and m7gnonette, two spoons- 


HAR 


ful of reduced espagnele, and a little of 
the ham. liquor; lay the spinach: thus 
prepared on a large dish, drain the ham, 
and slide it on the dish gently ; puta 
paper as usual round the knuckle, and 
serve it. 

Ham Toast.* — Cut some crumb of. 
bread into thin slices; then take an equal 
number of thin slices of ham, beat them 
well with a rolling pin, and then soak 
them in warm weter for about two hours; 
take them out, dry them well, and put 
them into a saucepan with a little bacon, 
aslice of veal, and halfa glass of stock 5 
let them boil for half an hour, and then 
add halfa glass of veal dfond. Fry your 
bread toa nice colour in some lard; lay 
it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice 
of the ham}; pour the sauce over them. 
Take particular care to cut the hamas 
nearly as possible the size and shape of 
the bread. : 

Ham, /Vestphalia.*— Rub your ham 
well with four ounces of pounded salt- 
petre, and let it lay: the next day boila™ 
quart of the strongest stale beer, with 
bay salt, common salt, and brown sugar, 
of each half a pound ; pour it, whilst hot, 
on the ham, rubbing it all over tho- 
roughly. Rub it in the same manner 
twice every day for a fortnight, turning 
it once aday. At the end of that time 
take out your ham, and hang it pretty 
high in the chimney, with a fire made of 
sawdust and horse-litter (fresh every 
day), for three days and as many nights: 
after which, hang them over a baker’s 
oven, or in any other dry place where 
there is the smoke from a wood fire. Be 
sure you fill the hock-bone with salt. 

HARE.—This animal should be kept 
five or six days,or even a week, before itis 
dressed ; the flesh then becomes dark and 
soft ; but when fresh killed, it is stiff and 
pale. Ofan old hare the opening of the 
lip is wider than that of a young hare ; 
the latter may likewise be distinguished 
by the ears being tender and pliable, and 
the claws smooth and sharp, whereas in 
an old one, the former are dry and tough, 
and the latter blunt. 

Hare.—As soon as the cook receives a 
hare, she should take out the liver, &c., 
wipe it well, put in a little pepper, and 
hang it up. When wanted for dressing, 
cut off the four legs at the first joint, 
raise the skin of the back, and draw it 
over the hind legs; leave the tail whole, 
then draw the skin over the back, and 
slip out the four legs; cut it from the 
neck andhead ; skin the ears, and leave 
them on. Clean the vent. Cut the 
sinews under the hind legs; bring them 
ae sink i _ a skewer through one hind 


HAR 


leg, the body, and another hind leg; do the 
same with the fore legs; lay the head 


rather back; put a skewer in at the | 


mouth, through the back of the head and 
between the shoulders; put in the stuf- 
fing, and tie it round with a string, 
passing it over the legs to keep them in 
their places: the hare is then ready for 
roasting. See Roasted Hare. 

Hare (to Boil a).—Takela marrow-bone, 
with a good deal of beef on it, and a piece 
of bacon, and a hare; put some salt and 
water, then boil them; when the hare is 
nearly done, take it out; bruise some 
pease, boil them in the broth; take out 
the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil 
again till the pease are done, then strain, 
and put the purée aside; lay the hare in 


a dish, pour the purée over it, and 


serve it. 

Hare @ la Broche.*—Your hare being 
properly prepared for dressing, set it on 
a hot stove to make the meat rather firm, 
before you lard it: when you remove it 
from the stove, dip your hand in the 
blood, and pass it over the back and legs ; 
then lard it to the end of the legs, leav- 
ing about an inch between the Join and 
the leg: then roast it (an hour is suffi- 
cient), and serve it with the following 
sauce: mince the liver very small whilst 
raw, and give it afew turns in a little 
butter, with a few shalots, parsley, thyme, 
and bay leaf, a tea-spoonful of flour, one 
glass of white wine, and two of broth; 
stir this sauce till it boils, add salt and 
pepper, then reduce it to nearly half; 
rub it lightly through a sieve into the 
tureen. ‘ 

Hare, Boudin of.* —To make this 
dish the fillets only must be used—take 
away all the nerves and sinews, and then 
pound the meat; rub it through a que- 
nelle sieve; roll it up, and set it aside: 
proceed in the same manner with a calf’s 
udder; soak the crumb of a small loaf in 
broth, and when soft, squeeze out all the 
moisture, and pound the bread, and rub 
it through a gwenelle sieve. Then take 
equal portions of these articles, and 
pound them together; then mix with 
them some dried sweet herbs in powder, 
a little spice, salt and pepper. Then 
according to the quantity of farce you 
have, put three or four yolks, and one 
white of egg, so as to make it easy to 
work up: flour the table, put the farce 
on it, and roll it up into the doudin, and 
poach it in boiling water, like the gue- 
nelles. Dip it in butter, bread it, and 
about a quarter of an hour before serving, 
broil it over a moderate fire; pass a 
salamander over to colour it; serve it 
quite dry. It may also be served without 


(282°) 









HAR 


poaching, in which case it must be glazed 
and laidon afumetofgame- = = — | 

Tf you have not a calf’s udder to pound - 
with it, fresh butter is a good substitute 5 
take care, however, to use double the 
quantity of it) Pear sae ae 

Hare @ la Bourgeoise.*—Skin, and cut 
a hare in pieces; lard them with large 
lardons, rolled in parsley, scallions, gar- — 
lic, (all shred fine), and salt; stew them, 
with half a glass of brandy and two — 
ounces of butter, over a slow fire: when 
nearly done, and the sauce partly, con- 
sumed, pour in the blood, (having pre- 
served it for that purpose); keep it on 
the fire till this is quite hot, but not 
boiling; then take out the hare, and lay 
the pieces on a dish so closely, that it 
may look like one ; let it stand till cold, 
and then eerve. . 

Hare Cake in Jelly.— Bone a hare,’ 
take all the sinews from the meat, and 
then pound it with an equal quantity of 
beef; add mushrooms, shalots, (garlic, if 
you please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, pickled cucumbers, and bacon, 
cut into dice, and two or three eggs 3 
mix all this together. Line a mould 
with thin slices of bacon, put in the hare, 
&c. 3 cover it with bacon, and bake it in 
a moderate oven : when cold, turn it out, 
place it on a dish, and put over it a jelly 
made as follows: take a pound and a 
half of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two 
or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or 
two, shalots, two bay-leaves, an ounce of 
isinglass 3 stew these in some beef broth 
till reduced to a jelly; add some lemon- 
juice ; strain first through a sieve, and 
then through a jelly-bag: when cold, 
pour it over the cake, and serve. 

Hare au Chevreuil.* — Take a fine 
hare, skin, and cut off the head and 
shoulders; beat it flat, and carefully cut 
the skin from the back and most pro- 
minent parts of the rump, which places 
lard with small pieces of fat bacon, pre- 
viously soaked in vinegar and water, 
with carrots, onions, parsley, bay-leaf, 
garlic, whole pepper, and salt; let the 
hare lay in this for two days, then spit 
it; baste it well while roasting. When 
done, place it on a dish, and set it in the 
oven while you glaze the larded parts: 
reduce two spoonsful of tarragon vine- 
gar, and five or six spoonsful of plain 
sauce; when it boils, mix in a little 
glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of 
half a lemon; pour this sauce round the 
hare, and serve it. cong 

Hare en Civet.*— Make a roux, in 
which put rather more butter than usual 5 
when about three parts done, put in some 
pieces of streaked bacon, give them a few _ 








HAR 


turns; and then add the hare, cut in 
. pieces; and when they have been in a 

little while, pour on them a bottle of 
white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, 
some stock or water, a small quantity 
only of salt, re the bacon ought to give 
it a little saltness), pepper, two bay- 
leaves, parsley and scallions, and mush- 
rooms: take care that your meat floats 
in the liquor ; set it over a large fire, 
that it may reduce quickly to three quar- 
ters of its original quantity. Have ready 
some small onions peeled, and lightly 
fried in a little butter; put them into 
the ezveé when nearly done. In about 
twenty or five and twenty minutes take 
it off, and keep it warm in hot ashes, till 
it is wanted for table. 

Hare ex Daube.*—Put a boned hare 
into a braising pan, with salt, pepper, 
carrots, Onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
equal quantities of broth and white wine, 
the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of 
veal, and thin slices of bacon, (having 
lined the pan previously with the same), 
braise it over a small fire for an hour and 
a helf; then take it out, strain the 
liquor; reduce and serve it over the 
hare. This dish may also be served cold, 
with jelly. : 

Hare @ la St. Denis.* — Having 
skinned and otherwise prepared the 
hare, cut off the head; season some 
lardons to lard the loins and legs, and 
lay it for two or three days in a pan, with 
salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, 
scallions, and two onions, cut in slices. 
When ready for dressing, take the liver, 
mince it with an equal quantity of bacon, 
add ‘salt, pepper, and a little pounded 
spice; to this put twice as much guenelle 
farce ; mix them together with the yolks 
of three eggs ; stuff the body of the hare 
with it, and sew up theskin. Layslices 
of bacon in a braising-pan, place the hare 
on them, and cover with bacon; put 
round it some slices of veal, two carrots, 
cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of 
parsley and scallions, thyme, bay-leaf, 
cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white 
wine; simmer these for two hours, or 
more, according to the age of the hare. 
When done, drain and glaze it, then re- 
duce the liquor to a jelly; add to it two 
ladlesful of espagnole ; if it shuuld be too 
highly seasoned, put to it about an ounce 
of butter, and alittle lemon juice ; put this 
sauce in a dish, and serve the hare on it. 

Hare’s Hars.—Take as many pair of 
ears as your dish will contain; scald 
them well, and braise them till tender; 
add a glass of wine, and a slice or two of 
lemon; when done, take them out, dip 
them in a thick batter, and fry them. 
Serve with any relishing sauce. 


( 283.) 


HAR 


. Hare (Fillets of), with Anchovies.— 
Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and 
lard them with anchovies (soaked in 
water and in slips for the purpose) ; sim- 
mer the fillets between two dishes for 
about half an hour, with butter, pepper, 
and half a dozen shalots; when done, 
place them on a dish, but keep it hot. 
Put to the shalots a little cullis, a table- 
spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter 
rolled in flour; keep this on the fire till 
tolerably thick ; pour this sauce over the 
fillets, and serve them. . 3 

Hare (fillets of), Larded.* —When 
your hare is skinned, run your. knife 
along the back-bone, from the wing to 
the leg, and remove the fillet, and lard it 
with bacon, and form it according to your 
taste. Put some slices of bacon into a 
saucepan, also some slices of onions and 
earrots, a little thyme and bay-leaf; lay 
the fillets on this, add a little consommé, 
and stew them about three quarters of 
an hour ; having covered them with but- 
tered paper, close the stewpan, and put 
fire on the lid. When done, glaze them. 
Serve them on cucumbers @ /a créme, a 
potvrade, or any thing else you choose, 

Hare (Fillets of) Marinés Sautés.*— 
Take off the fillets, trim and lard them 
as the fillets sawtés; then put them into 
a pan with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, 
thyme, parsley, whole scallions, and a 
large glass of vinegar; leave the fillets in 
this for a week. When wanted, take 
them out, drain, and put them into the 
tossing-pan ; pourin a sufficient quantity 
of melted butter to make the fillets float ; 
set your pan over a brisk fire; turn them 
when done on one side}; as soon as they 
are firm to the touch, take them out, 
drain, and dish them on a potvrade. 

Hare (Fillets of ) Sautés.*—Take ten 
fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten 
them with a knife, trim them to as round 
a shape as you can, and as each piece is 
done, put it into a tossing-pan; season 
them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; 
add a little melted butter toit; put your 
pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to 
prevent the pieces from sticking ; as soon 
as one side isdone, turn and do the other; 
then put them in a dish, take out the 
butter, but not the gravy, from the pan, 
and to it put a glass of white wine and 
four ladlesful of espagnole ; reduce them 
to half, and then strain them over the 
fillets. Take care to drain the fillets 
from their gravy, that the sauce be not 
too clear; it ought, properly, to adhere 
to them. 

Hang, to Fry a.—When the hare is 
skinned, lay it on a gridiron till hot 
through 3 then quarter and fry it toa nice 
colour in lard; soak some toasted bread 


HAR 


in beef stock and white wine, with pound- 
ed ginger and cloves; strain it, add a 
little verjuice, and serve up the hare 
with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon- 
juice. Garnish the dish with greens and 
sliced lemon. ? 

_ Hare, Haricot.*—Prepare a hare as 
for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put 
into a saucepan lined with streaked 
bacon; add turnips, salt, pepper, sweet 
herbs, half a pintof good stock or boiling 
water only. Let itstand, closely covered, 
over a small fire, and when nearly done, 
throw in about thirty pieces of fried 
_ bread; skim off the fat, put it in a hot 
dish, and squeeze lemon-juice over it. 
Hare, Hashed.* — Skin and stuff a 
hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, 
and spit it; set it before the fire, and 
half roast it; then take it up, cut it in 
pieces, and having made some good beef 
gravy, put in the hare; simmer it for 
two hours; then add a glassand a half of 
port wine; let it stand a little while 
longer over the fire, and then serve it 
with currant-jelly. 

Hare, Jugged. — Having skinned a 
hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and 
divide the back into three pieces; rub 
them well with fat bacon, and put them 
into a stewpan with the trimmings, all- 
spice, mace, whole pepper, a small 
clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, three 
onions, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, 
a quart of veal stock, and three gills of 
port wine; simmer the whole till three 

arts done; then take out the shoulders, 

egs, and back; put them into another 
stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add 
alittle flour and butter, stew them till 
‘quite done; take off the fat, season with 
cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice, - and 
serve the whole in a deep dish. 

Hare Loaf.*—Make a farce in the 
same manner as for the Boudzns of hare, 
with the addition of the liver pounded 
and rubbed through a qguenelle sieve. 
Take a mould of the size you wish to have 
the loaf, line this completely with thin 
slices of bacon; then put in the farce; 
have a saucepan with boiling water, put 
the mould into it, but do not let the 
water come within an inch of the top of 
it, lay thin slices of bacon over the 
hare, cover the saucepan and put fire on 
the lid; let the water simmer, in about 
an hour, see if it be sufficiently done, if 
so, take it from the mould. Glaze and 
serve it with a fwmet of game sauce; if 
you think proper, make a hole in the 
top, into which put the kidneys of the 
hare, previously dressed in a_ little 
champagne. 

Hare with Olives.*—Your hare being 
skinned, cut it in pieces, lard the legs 


( 284 ) 
and fillets with small Jardons ; braise the 


HAR 


pieces, but when about three parts done, 
take them out and put them into a sauce~ 
pan; then take the gravy of the hare, 
mix it with the blood of a chicken, soak: 
liver in it, pound, and then add it with 
the gravy and half a hundred olives (pre> 
viously soaked and scalded), to the hare; 
set it on aslow fire until the olives are 
tender; put the whole into a dish, squeeze 
lemon-juice over, and serve it very hot. © 
Hare Pie.—Cut a hare in pieces, sea- 
gon it with pepper, salt, nutmegs, and 
mace ; put it into a jug with half a pound 
of butter, cover it close, and set in' a 
large saucepan of ‘boiling water. In the 
mean time make a forcemeat with a 
quarter of a pound of scraped bacon, two 
onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb 
of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, 
the liver minced small ; season with pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole 
together with the yolks of three eggs; 
make a raised crust, at the bottom of 
which lay some of the forcemeat, then 
some of the hare ; put forcemeaton them, 
and so on till your hare is allin; add the 
gravy from the hare, cover the pie, and 
bake it for an hour and a half. ‘ 
Hare, Potted.—Skin and wash a hare 
perfectly clean ; cut im pieces, and put 
them into a jar with butter, pepper, salt, 
mace, and herbs, if you choose, tie it 
over and set it in an oven with the 
bread. When done, take the meat from 
the bones and pound it with the fat which 
comes from the gravy to a fine paste. 
Press it down closely in pets, and cover 
it with clarified butter. iy as) 
Hare, Ragodt of.—Skin and take alk 
the hones from a hare that has hung some. 
days (leave the head untouched); jay it 
open on the table; strew pepper and salt. 
and spreada good forcemeat over; roll 
it up close to the head, tie it up, and 
stew it in a clear braize, which must be 
reduced to half the quantity; then add 
half a bottle of port, and stew till the 
hare is done; take.it out, and put tothe 
liquor a little plain sauce; reduce the 
whole to the proper consistence; add 
truffles, morels, mushrooms, cocks’- 
combs, fat livers, forcemeat-balls, and 
artichoke-bottoms; a little lemon-juice 
may be added}; serve the hare with this 
sauce. 
Hane, Roasted.—The hare being skin- 
ned, cleaned, and trussed, make a good 
stuffing as follows: a quarter ofa pound 
of beef-suet, shred fine, some. bread- 
crumbs, the. liver boiled and chopped 
small, sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, 
and nutmeg; mix these together we.., 
bind them with.an egg, put this into the 
hare, tie it up, and fasten it to the spit; 











HAR 
puta quart of milk into the dripping, 
and baste the hare with it. When nearly 
done, flour the hare well, and baste with 
butter to froth it. A small hare takes an 
hour and a half, a large one two hours, 
to roast. 

Another way.—When the hare is truss- 
ed and stuffed, cover it with thin slices 
of bacon, tie them on, baste it with drip- 
ping. Some persons prefer stale beer; 
likewise add an anchovy, a glass of red 
wine, and another egg to the stuffing. 
Serve the hare with gravy and melted 
butter. 
~ Hare, Roasted —Cut the skin froma 
hare that has been well soaked $ put it 
on the spit and rub it well with Madeira, 
pricking it in various places that it may 
imbibe plenty of wine; cover it entirely 
with a paste, and roast it. When done, 
take away the paste, rub it quickly over 
with egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs, and 
baste it gently with butter (still keeping 
it turning before the fire) until a crust is 
formed over it and it is of a nice brown 
colour; dish it over some espagnole with 
Madeira wine boiled in it; two or three 
cloves may be stuck into the knuckles if 
you think proper. 

Hare, fo Roast in the Skin.—Clean 
the inside of the hare in the usual way; 
stuff and roast it. When nearly done, 
flay off the skin, strew bread-crumbs, 
cinnamon pounded, and flour over it, 
pretty thick, froth it well. Make a 
sauce with claret, vinegar, ginger, cin- 
namon, barberries, and a little sugar; 
pour it intoa dish, lay the hare on it, 
garnish with lemon and parsley, and 
serve it. é 

Hare en Salamis.—Take a cold roast- 
ed hare, chop it into small pieces; cut a 
large onion into dice, and fry it of a 
good colour in butter, with a bay-leaf; 
add about two spoonsful of flour, and 
when it is well mixed with the butter, 
putin a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, 
and keep stirring until it boils; then 
put in the hare, set the saucepan by the 
side of the fire to simmer, in an hour add 
haifa pint of port, and simmer it for 
another halfhour. When done, squeeze 
in the juice of a lemon, and a small quan- 
tity of cayenne, and serve it. 

Hare, aw Sang.*—Skin and parboil a 
hare; then take off the skin, cut off all 
the meat, and mince it very small; cut 
some pork leaf into dice, slice some 
onions, mix these together, and toss 
them up over the fire; when the leaf 
begins to melt, pour on it a pint of pig’s, 
lamb’s, or calf’s blood; put in the 
minced hare, set them on the fire, and 
when the whole is of a tolerable consist- 


( 285 ) 


HAR 

ence, place two cauls open on the table, 
lay a large slice of bacon on it, put in the 
hare, &c., cover it with another large 
slice of bacon, gather up the cauls, and 
form the mass as near as possible to the 
resemblance of a hare; tie it up and bake 
it. When done, clear away the fat, and 
serve it. 

Harg, to Scare a.—Lard and stuffa 
hare, and put it into a saucepan, with 
two quarts of good gravy, one of port 
wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a 
dozen cloves; cover it close, and let it 
stew over a slow fire till three parts done; 
then take it out, place it ina dish 5 mix 
together, bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, 
shred small, grated lemon-peel, and 
nutmeg ; strew these over the hare. 

Hare Soup.—Having skinned and 
cleaned the hare, cut it in pieces and 
put them into a stewpan with the follow- 
ing ingredients:—T wo onions, each with 
a couple of cloves in them, parsley, bay- 
leaf,thyme, basil, marjoram, alittle mace, 
and two or three glasses of port wine}; 
set the whole over the stove to simmer, in 
an hour’s time,addas much boiling stock 
as will cover the hare; then let it simmer. 
again till done. Take ont the meat, 
strain the liquor, and lay some crumb of 
bread in it. Take all the bones out, 
pound the hare, rub it through a sieve, 
add the broth to it, and season the whole 
to your taste. 

Hare, Stewed.—Having skinned your 
hare, divide just below the ribs; cut the 
fore part into pieces, and put them into 
a stewpan with a little mace, an onion 
stuck with cloves, pepper-corns, an an- 
chovy, anda bunch of sweet herbs; add 
sufficient water to cover them, and let 
them stew gently. In the meanwhile 
make a good stuffing, which put into the 
other part; tie it up, lard and roast it; 
flour it well, and baste with either butter 
or small beer. When the stew is tender, 
take out the meat, strain the liquor, add 
to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of 
ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in 
flour; stir it over the fire till pretty 
thick; then take up the hare, lay it ina 
dish, place the stewed pieces round, and 
pour the sauce over. Have some good 
gravy in a sauce tureen. 

HARICOT by way of Soup.—Cut a 
large neck ef mutton into two pieces, 
put the scrag into a stewpan with aquart 
of water, four large carrots, and turnips 5 
boil it gently over a slow fire till all the 
goodness be out of the meat; then bruise 
the vegetables into the soup to thicken 
it. Fry six onions (sliced) in butter, 
and put the other part of the meat to the 


HEA 


soup, and stew till the latter is tender ; 
season with pepper and salt, and serve 
it very hot in a tureen. 
HARTSHORN Cream.—Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings in 
three pints of water; when reduced to 
halfa pint, strain it through a jelly-bag ; 
put it toa pint of cream anda quarter of 
a pound of powder-sugar, and give them 
one boil together; then put it into cups 
or glasses, and let them stand till cold, 
when turn them out on a dish; stick 
some sliced blanched almonds on the top 
ofeach. White wine and sugar is usually 
eaten with them. 
HarrsnHorn Flummery.—Boil half a 
pound of hartshorn-shavings in three 
pints of water till reduced to one pint; 
strain it into a basin and set it by till 
lukewarm ; then put to it a pint of thick 
cream (boiled and cold), a gill of white 
wine, two spoonsful of orange-flower 
water, anda sufficient quantity of pow- 
der-sugar to sweeten it; stir all these 
together till well mixed; dip your moulds 
in warm water, put in the flummery ; 
when cold, turn them on a dish with 
cream, white wine, and sugar, mixed 
together and poured round them. Cuta 
few almonds blanched into thin slips, 
lenzthwise, and stick in the top of each. 
Harrsnorn Jelly.*—Grate a pound of 
hartshorn, and put it into a saucepan 
with three quarts of water; set it on the 
fire and boil it till reduced to half; then 
strain it into an earthen pan. Clean the 
saucepan well, and put into it the white 
of an egg and a small quantity of water, 
and whisk it to a froth; put to the de- 
coction of hartshorn, a pound of crushed 
sugar; add these to the white of egg, set 
the saucepan on the fire and skim it well; 
then add the juice of six lemonsstrained, 
and three pints of white wine; give the 
whole a few boils, then pass it two or 
three times through a jelly- bag (in which 


puta little cinnamon). When the jelly. 


is perfectly clear, pour it into your 
moulds. The jelly should be strained 
near the fire, or in a warm place, other- 
wise it will congeal, and consequently 
not strain properly. 

HASH, cold.—Mince a nice white 
piece of veal, wash and core some ancho- 
vies ; take some pickled oysters, pickled 
cucumbers, and a lemon; shred and mix 
them with the veal, and place it in a 
dish ; lay round it slices of veal, fillets 
of anchovies, pickled cucumbers sliced, 
whole pickled oysters, inushrooms and 
capers; lettuces shred smal); pour in 
oil and vinegar, salt and pepper, and 


serve. a 
HEATHCOCK, to bake.—Open the 
skin of a heathcock, take the meat from 


( 286 ) 


HER 


the breast, and mince it with beef suet, 
sweet herbs, three artichoke bottoms. 
(boiled), some chesnuts roasted and 
blanched; marrow and skirrets boiled: 
these ingredients being minced very 
small, season them with pepper and salt, 
add the yolks of three eggs; mix the 
whole together, and put some of it in 
the place of the breast ; fasten the skin,. 
prick the back, and put it into a stew- 
pan, with broth, marrow, artichoke, cut 
in pieces, chesnuts, and some of the 
force-meat made into balls; when suffi- 
ciently done, take it out, serve it with 
fried bread, and the sauce; garnish the 
dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard’ 
eggs, and chesnuts, aa) 
HEDGEHOG, to make a.—Blanch 
two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them 
to a paste in a mortar, moistening occa- 
sionally with canary and orange flower-: 
water ; beat the yolks of twelve, and the 
whites of seven eggs with a pint of cream 
and some powder sugar; put this with 
the almond paste and half a pound of 
fresh butter into a saucepan, set it over. 
a stove and keep it constantly stirring 
till sufficiently firm to be moulded into 
the shape of a hedgehog: stick it full of 
blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into 
slips, and place it in a dish ; beat up the 
yolks of four eggs, put them toa pint of 
cream (sweetened to the taste) ; stirthem: 
over a slow fire till hot, then pour it 
round the hedgehog and let it stand:. 
when cold, serve it. ; 
A good calf’s-foot jelly may be poured: 
round, instead of the cream, if pre-: 
ferred. i shew wu 
HERBS, ¢o dry.—Gather marjoram, 
savory, thyme, basil, parsley, &c.on a 
dry day, in the proper seazon, before they. 
are in flower; divide them into small 
bunches, and hang them ona line in a 
room where there is a free current of 
air, but no:sun: in about three weeks, 
lay them in rows, in boxes, and keep 
them in a dry place. 
Hers Pudding.—Wash, scald, and 
shred small, spinach, beet, parsley, and. 
leeks, of each a handful; have ready.a 
quart of groats (previously soaked in 
warm water for half am hour), cut a 
pound of hog’s lard and three onions 
into dice, mince three sage leaves 5 mix 
all these ingredients, add a little salt; 
and tie them up close ina cloth: whilst 
boiling, the string must be loosened to 
allow it to swell. 
Heres (Fine). Sauce of.*—Workupa@ 
piece of butter in some flour, melt it, 
and then put to it the following herbs, 
shred small :—parsley, scallions, tarra- 
gon, borage, garden-cress, chervil, &c. ; 
boil them altogether for about a quarter 





HER 


of an hour; add a glass of stock, and 
serve it very hot. | 

- Herss, Stewed.—T ake some spinach, 
two handsful of parsley, and one handful 
of scallions ; chop the two latter, and 
sprinkle them among the spinach; put 
them into a stewpan, with a little salt 
anda bit of butter; when it begins to 
_heat, shake the pan, keeping it closely 
covered ; let it stand over a stove till 
done. 

HeEnrss, Sweet.—These in cookery are 
parsley,chibbol,rocambole,winter savory, 
thyme, bay-leaf, basil, mint, borage, 
rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, 
&c. The relishing herbs or Ravigotte, 
are tarragon, garden-cress, chervil, 
burnet, civet, and green mustard. 

Herss en Papiliotes.*—Grate half a 
pound of bacon, and put it, with six 
spoonsful of oil, and a quarter ofa pound 
of butter into a saucepan; add to it four 
dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, shred 
small; give them a few turns over the 
fire. When done, put in two dessert- 
spoonsful of shalots, give them a turn or 
~ two, do the same with two spoonsful of 
parsley; then do the whole together; 
add salt, pepper, and spices ; when done, 
put herbs into a pan, to be used when 
wanted. The herbs must all be shred 
small before they are put into the sauce- 


an. 
:" Hers Pie.—Take a handful ofspinach, 
double the quantity of parsley, picked, 
two lettuees, mustard and cress, and the 
jeaf of borage and white- beet; wash, 
scald, and having drained and pressed 
outall the water,shred them very small; 
mix them together, season them with 
salt, pepper. and nutmeg; make a batter 
with acouple of eggs, a pint of cream, 
half a pint of milk, and some flour, stir 
it well and pour it on the herbsin a deep 
dish ; cover the whole with a crust, and 
bake. 

Heass, Potage of.*—Take some sor- 
rel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil, mince 
them very small, and do them up ina 
little fresh butter. When well amalga- 
mated and sufficiently done, moisten 
them with a proper quantity of stock or 
broth, and pour the whole on the bread, 
prepared as usual, in the soup tureen. 

Heregs (Common) Potage of.*—Take 
two lettuces, a handful ef sorrel, the 
same of chervil, and having washed them 
well, bruise and put them into a sauce- 
pan, with remains in the pot after broth 
has been strained ; set them on the fire 
and when the herhs are tender, ad 
broth, and let them stew till sufficiently 
done. Then soak bread as usual, ay it, 
covered with the lettuces, &c., in a 
tureen, and pour the soup oyer, 


( 287 ) 


HER 


HERON Pe.—Break the breast bone, 
and lay the bird in soak for an hour in 
warm water and salt. Shred some onions 
and sweet herbs very fine; make them 
into balls, with a little butter, add pepper, 
salt, nutmeg and mace in powder; put 
some of these into the heron, lard the 
breast, and lay bacon on the wings. 
Make a raised crust, in which place the 
bird, with the remainder of the balls 
round it; squeeze in some lemon-juice, 
cover the pie, and bake it; when done, 
raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and 
let it stand till cold. : 

Heron, to Roast.—When the heron is 
picked, parboil it, lard the breast and 
back ; roast it, basting with white wine 
and butter, beaten together: strew over 
it bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, 
shred small. Beat up the yolks of eggs 
with a little claret and vinegar, and some 
chopped anchovies: when roasted, serve 
it garnished with rosemary-leaves, orange 
and lemon sliced. 

HERRINGS.—There are three sorts 
of herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or 
red herrings. They are emptied and 
cleaned like any other fish ; when fresh, 
they are broiled, and served with melted 
butter, white sauce, &c. 

The salted herring should be soaked 
in cold water before it is cooked ; this is 
also broiled ; sometimes, however, it is 
cut in pieces, and eaten raw. 

The red herring is split down the back, 
the head and tail are cut off, and the fish 
broiled like the others. 

They may also be dressed as follows: 
when they have lain in cold water a suffi- 
cient time, soak them for two hours in 
milk, then split them down the back ; 
then have ready some melted butter, in 
which has been mixed basil and bay- 
leaf, minced small, the yolks of two eggs, 
pepper and nutmeg; rub the herrings 
well with this, bread them; broil them 
over a gentle fire, and serve with lemon- 
juice. 

The best red herrings are full of roe, 
are firm.and large, and have a yellow 
cast. ' 

Of the fresh herring the scales are 
bright if good, the eyes are full, and the 
gills red, the fish also should be stiff. 

' Herrines, Botled.Scale, and other- 
wise prepare the herrings in the usual 
way; dry them well, and rub them over 
with a little salt and vinegar; skewer 
their tails in their mouths, lay them on 
a fish-plate, and put them into boiling 
water; in ten or twelve minutes take 
them out, drain them, lay them on the 
dish, the heads towards the middle; 
serve them with melted butter and pare 


| sley, and garnish with horse-radish. 


HER 

Herrines, to Pickle.+—Let the fish be 
well cleaned and gutted, but not opened ; 
take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg ; 
pound and mix these spices well; then 
rub a pan with an onion, strew some of 
the spice over the bottom, and put in as 
many fish as will lay flat on the bettom; 
then put a layer of sliced onion, then fish, 
and so on alternately, till the pan be 
filled; strew the pounded spice between 
each layer; pour the best vinegar over, 
so as to cover the whole; tie a brown 
paper over the pan, and bake till the 
bones are soft. i 

Sprats and mackarel are, likewise, 
pickled in this way. 

ie The heads and tails must be cut 
off. : 
Herrinas, Pickled.*—These fish are 
usually broiled, and served with a purée 
of vegetables, or butter sauce. They 
are, sometimes, however, used as a hors 
d’ euvre, when they are cooked as follows: 
Take six pickled herrings, cut off the 
heads, ends of the tails, and fins; skin 
and soak them in equal quantities of milk 
and water; then drain and dish them 
with slices of onions, and apples. They 
are eaten with oil. 

Herrine Pie.—fcale and clean the 
herrings, cut off the heads, fins, and tails. 
Lay a crust at the bottom of a dish ; strew 
over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pound- 
ed); put in alittle butter, lay in some of 
the herrings, season them, then put a 
layer of apples and onions, sliced thin; 
then herrings again; add some water, 
and a little more butter; cover the pie, 
and bake it well. 

Hernines, Potted.—Cut off the heads, 
and lay the herrings close in an earthen- 
pan; strew a little salt between each 
layer ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, 
and a nutmeg, cut in pieces; fill up the 
pan with vinegar, water, and a little 
white wine; cover the pan close, and 
bake the fish : when cold, pound it, and 
put it by in pots in the usual way.—(See 
Potted Beef.) . 

Herrine-nors (fresh), en Caisses.*— 
Scald, and drain the roes of twenty or 
thirty fresh herrings; give them a few 
turns over the fire, with a little butter, 
sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt and pep- 
per, but do not let them take colour: 
make a paper case, over the bottom of 
which lay some farce, to the depth of half 
an inch; oil the case, and set it on a 
gridiron, over hot ashes: as soon as the 
gratin is formed, put in the roes, strew 
raspings over them: do them ina Dutch- 
oven before a moderate fire, a few mi- 
nutes is sufficient, take off the fat, and 
serve the roes with espagno/e, and lemon 
juice, 


( 288 ) 


Bee cigiy 


Hernrinas (Soft Roes of), en Caisses: 
Make a paper case to fit the dish you in- 
tend to use, and spread butter.over the 
bottom of it. Broil eight soft-roed-her- 
rings; when done, take out the roes very 
carefully, and lay themin acase. Sprinkie 
pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred 
parsley, over them; butter and bake 
them in a hot oven; when done, pour a 
mattre d’hétel into the case, and the 
juice of a lemon: serve them very hot. 

Herrines, Stewed. — Clean and put 
the herrings into a fish-kettle, with a 
sufficient quantity of stock to cover them 5 
add two or three cloves, a carrot, pepper- 
corns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay- 
leaf, parsley, and half a bottle of port 
wine. Stew the fish in this till done, then 
take them out, keep them hot, strain, 
and reduce the liquor with a little sauce 
tournée; then pass it through a tammy 
into another stewpan, stir ina little 
butter and lemon-juice, dish your her- 
rings, and pour this sauce over them. 

Herrines (Red).*—Take half a dozen 
red herrings, cut off the heads and tails, 
split them along the back, and open 
them; lay them on a dish and pour oil 
on them; broil them on both sides (two 


or three seconds are sufficient); take 


them off, and serve them instantly. . 
Herrines (Red), dla Bruxelloise.*— 
Make a case with thick paper, butter it 
well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings, 
prepared as follows: cut off the heads 
and tails, take away the bones and skins, ° 
and cut them lengthwise into two fillets; 
put between each fillet a piece of butter, 
mixed with sweet herbs, some mush- 
rooms, parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, 
pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them 
pretty thickly with raspings, broil them 
slowly over a gentle fire, so as not to 
burn the paper, in which they must be 
served, whilst very hot, with lemon- 
juice squeezed over them. . 
Herrines (Red), with Herbs.*—Take 
the best red herrings, skin and take off 
the heads and tails ; cut them into fillets 
lengthwise, and soak -them in milk for 
four hours, then drain and put them into 
a saucepan with some butter, a little oil, 
parsley, and sweet herbs (shred small), 
salt, and pepper; let them simmer for 
half an hour, take off the fat, and serve 
them hot: if the sauce be too thick, add a 
little orange-juice. HOT 
Hernrines (Red), al’ Italienne.*—Soak 
the herrings to take out the salt; open 
and clean them well, flour them inside 
and outside, fry them in butter and oil, 
serve them laid on fried parsley. - 
HIPPOCRAS.*—Take one ounce of 
cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two 
penny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and 





HOG 


galangala penny-weight ofeach. Pound 
these together well, and infuse them in 
a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of 
malmsey; to this, add a pound of the 
best loaf sugar. These proportions will 
make a quart of the liquor. 

Hiprocras (red).— Pour a gallon of 
- claret into an earthen pan, put to it a 
blade of mace, some Jong pepper, four 
grains of white pepper, a drachm of cin- 
namon, and a little coriander-seed (all 
bruised separately); add two pounds of 
powder sugar, and a dozen sweet almonds 
pounded. 

Hippocras (whzte).—Take a gallon of 
white wine, two ounces of cinnamon, two 
pounds of sugar, a little mace (all in 
powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple 
of lemons cut in quarters. When these 
have infused some time, strain it three or 
four times through a jelly-bag. This 
liquor may be flavoured with musk, or 
ambergris, by tying a small ayaa tity of 
either drug (beaten with a little sugar), 
in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the 
oy? ype which it is strained. 

QG’S Blood.* —Cut an onion into 
dice, and fry it in either butter or lard, 
when done, pour in the blood, stir it 
well, add boiled rice, or barley, and sga- 
son it very high with pepper and salt.* 

Ho«’s Cheeks to Dry.— Having cut the 
snout and taken out the brains, split the 
head, remove the upper bone, rub the 
cheeks well with salt, and let it stand: 
the next day, rub away that, and add 
fresh saJt; the following day, cover the 
head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two 
ounces of bay, anda little common salt, 
and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, 
turn it frequently. When it has Jain thus 
ten days, take it out, and smoke it like 
bacon. | 

Hoe’s Hars Forced.—Parboil two or 
three pair of hog’s ears: then take an 
anchovy, some sage, parsley, and half a 
ponnd of suet (all chopped small), bread 
crumbs, and pepper ; bind these together 
with the yolk of an egg; stuff the ears 
with this, fry them in batter to a nice’ 
colour, pour away all the fat, and put 
them into a stewpan with half a pint of 
rich gravy, a glass of madeira, three 
spoonsful of mustard, a piece of butter, 
rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pep- 
per, cover the pan close, and stew gently 
for half an hour, shaking them occasion- 
ally; when done, take out the onion, lay 
the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce 
over them, 

Hoa’s Head (excellent Meat of ).—Put 
a head into some tongue pickle, and when 
it has lain sufficiently long, take it out 
and boil it till the bones will come out 
with ease; then skin, bone, and chop the 


( 289 ) 


HON 


meat, whilst hot; season it with pepper 
(black and white), nutmeg, and salt, if 
necessary; lay part of the skin at the 
bottom of a potting pan, press in the 
meat, cover it with the remainder of the 
skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till 
quite cold. ‘Then turn it out. Boil the 
liquor it was dressed in with some vine~ 
gar, skim it well, and when cold put the 
head into it. 

Hoe’s Head ike Brawn.—Wash a head 
thoroughly, and boil it, till all the bones 
will come out; then let it cool. Put the 
inside of the cheeks together, with salt 
bet.seen, and the ears round, lay them in 
a cloth, and press theminto a round pan, 
put a weight on, and Jet them remain two 
days: then boil a pint of malt, with salt 
and water, and when cold put the head 
into this pickle. 

Hoa’s Head, as Wild Boar.—Cut the 
head close to the shoulder, bone the neck 
part, cut off the chops, part of the flesh 
of the nose, as far as the eyes, take the 
bone off, and lard the inside with bacon, 
rolled in pepper, salt and spices; rub it 
all over with common salt, half an ounce 
of saltpetre; put it into a pan, with half 
a handful of juniper-berries, thyme, bay- 
leaf, basil, cloves, half a handful of cori- 
ander, cover the pan, and leave it for a 
week; then take out the head, tie it up, 
dry it; putit into a sancepan, with three 
pints of red wine and water, onions, car- 
rots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves 
of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, 
bay-leaf, six cloves, and two pounds of 
lard; taste the braise befure it is quite 
done; add salt ifnecessary: it is suffici- 
ently cooked when it gives way to the 
touch : let itcvol in the brajse, and serve 
it cold, garnished with bay-leaves, ac- 


cording to fancy. 
Hoa’s Puddings. (See Black Pud- 


dings. 

HONEY to Clarify—(M. Fouque’s 
Methed.)*—Vake six pounds of honey, @ 
pound and three quarters of water, two 
ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, 
five ounces of coal, (pulverized, washed, 
and well dried), the whites of three eggs 
beaten in three ounces of water, for each 
pound of honey. 

. Put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs, 
into a copper vesse], capable of holding 
about one-third more than the above 
quantities ; let them boil for two minutes, 
throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, 
and continue the boiling two minutes 
longer ; then take the saucepan from the 
fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of 
an hour, that the liquor may cool; then 
take a new sieve (which must be well 
washed, or it will impart a disagreeable 
pant) cane the honey through it, taking 





HOT 


care to filter the first drops twice, as they 
generally carry with them some portion 
of the coal. 

The syrup which still adheres to the 
coal, and other materials, may be separat- 
ed as follows: pour boiling water on 
them until they no longer retain any 
sweetness; then put these different 
waters together, set them over a large 
fire to evaporate, till the syrup only re- 
mains. This syrup contracts the flavour 
of barley sugar, and must not be added 
to the clarified honey. 

HOPS *—The early shoots of hops are 

sometimes used in the spring, as substi- 
tutes for asparagus; they are dressed in 
the same manner; and served with a 
white sauce, or with oil. 
- HORSERADISH Sauce Cold.—Chop 
up some parsley, cliibbol, shalots, a clove 
of garlic, capers, and anchovies, to these 
add a spoonful of horseradish scraped 
very fine, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pep- 
per and salt. 

Horserapisn Sauce Hot.—Slice two 
onions,. and fry them in oil, and when 
they begin to-colour, put them into a 
saucepan, with a glass of white wine, the 
same of broth, two slices of lemon, peel- 
ed, two cloves of garlic, a_bay-leaf, 
thyme, basil, and two cloves; boil these 
a quarter of an hour, and then strain it; 
add capers, and an anchovy chopped, 
pepper, salt, and a spoonful of horse- 
radish, boiled to a pulp; warm the whole 
without boiling. 

HOTCH-POTCH.— Take some old 
pease, and stew them with some onions 
in a little water, with a beef or ham 
bone: in the meanwhile fry some mutton 
chops, well seasoned, to a nice colour; 
and about an hour before serving put 
them into a stewpan, pour the pease, &c. 
over, add a little butter rolled in flour, 
and stew them. Serve all together in a 
soup dish, knuckle of veal, and,scrag of 
mutton, stewed with the pease, onions, 
and lettuces; without frying is likewise 
an excellent way of making this dish. 

Horcu-Porcu.—Cut four ox tails into 
pieces at the joints, take a pound of 
gravy beef, and the same of pickled pork, 
cut each in half, and put these articles 
into a saucepan, cover them with water, 
and when it boils, skim it well; add half 
a Savoy, two ounces of mushrooms, some 
turnips, carrots, onions, leeks, celery, a 
bay leaf, whole pepper, allspice, and a 
little mace; when nearly done, put in 
two quarts of veal stock ; as soon as the 
meat is tender, take it out, and put it 
into a deep dish, but keep it hot; strain 
the liquor, take off ail the fat, season it 
with cayenne, salt and lemon-juice ; have 
ready some carrots, turnips, celery, and 


( 290 ) 


ICE 
onions, the three former cut in pieées; 


stew these separately till tender, and- | 


strain off their essences to the above 


liquor; clear it with whites of eggs ; strain, 


it, put in the vegetables; boil the whole 
gently for ten minutes, and then pour it 
over the meat. its 
Hotcu-rotcH.—Take some young car- 
rots, cut them into round pieces, all the 
same length 3 boil them in a little stock, 


‘with a small quantity of sugar; when ~ 


sufficiently done, reduce the sauce; put 
some good espagnole to them, season it 
well, take off the fat, and serve. S 

Hotcu-potcn Soup.— Blanch some 
carrots, turnips, and celery, cut in pieces 
of an equal length; put them into some 
clear brown stock, and boil them for 
about an hour; in the meanwhile, stew a 
few mutton chops, and just before it is 
served, put them into the soup; cut some 
crusts of bread into thin slices, trim, 
and soak them separately in some broth, 
lay them carefully in a tureen, and pour 
the soup with the meat and vegetables 
on them; do this gently, so that the 
bread be not broken. 


I, 


ICE. * — Sorbetiéres or moulds for 
cream or fruit-ices, are made of two sorts 
of materials, block-tin and pewter; of 
these, the latter is the best, the substance 
to he iced congealing more gradually in 
it than in the former; an object much 
to be desired, as when the ice is formed 
too quickly, it is very ee to be rough, 
and full of lumps like hail, especially if it 
be not well worked with the spatula; 
the other utensils necessary for this 
operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork 
at the bottom, and a wooden spatula 
about nine inches long; being so far pro- 
‘vided, fill the pail with pounded ice, over 
which spread four handsful of salt ; then 
haying filled the sorbetiére, or mould. 
with cream, &c.; put on the cover, an 
‘immerse it in the centre of the ice-pail 3 
taking care the ice touches the mould in 
all parts ;. throw in two more handsful of 
salt, and leave it a quarter of an hour; 
then take the cover from the monld, and 
with the spatula stir the contents up to- 
gether, so that those parts which touch 
the sides of the mould, and consequently 
congeal first, may be mixed 
liquid in the middle; work this about for 
seven or eight minutes ; cover the mould. 
take the pail by the ears, and shake it 
round and round for a quarter of an 
hour; open the mould a second time, 
and stir as before; continue these oper- 
ations alternately, until the cream, .or 


with the. 


a 





* 


ICE- 


whatever it may be, is entirely congealed, 
and perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. 
Take care to let out the water, which 
will collect at the bottom of the pail, by 
means of the cock, and press the ice 
close to the sorbetiére with the spatula. 

When the cream is iced, take it from 
the pail, dip the mould in warm water, 
but not to let it remain an instant; dry 
-¥€ quickly, turn it out, and serve it as 
s0on as possible. 

_ All sorts of ices are finished in this 
manner ; the preparation of the articles 
of which they are composed, constitutes 
the only difference between them. 

Ice for lceing (how to prepare).—Take 
afew pounds of ice, break it almost to 
powers and throw in among it a large 

andful and a half of salt ; you must pre- 

pare in the coolest part of the house, that 
as little as the warm air as possible may 
come, ‘The ice and salt heing in a buc- 
ket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and 
cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw 
that round the pot, so that it may touch 
every part. Ina few minutes put aspa- 
tula or spoon in, and stir it well, remov- 
ing the parts that ice round the edges to 
the centre. lf the ice-cream or water, be 
in a form, shut the bottom close, and 
move the whole in the ice, as you cannot 
use a spoon to that without danger of 
waste. There should be holes in the 
bucket, to let the ice off as it thaws. 
- Iceine for Cakes.—For a large cake, 
beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, 
put it into a mortar, with four spoonsful 
of rose-water, and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten and strained, whisk it well, and 
when the cake is almost cold, dip a fea- 
ther in the iceing, and cover the cake 
well; set it in the oven to harden, but do 
not letit remain long enough to discolour. 
Keep the cake in a dry place. 

Ice a very large Cake. — Beat the 
whites of twenty fresh eggs; then, by 
degrees, beat a pound of double-refined 
sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve; mix 
these well in a deep earthen pan; add 
orange flower water, and a piece of fresh 
lemon-peel; do not use more of the 
orange-flower water than is just sufficient 
to flavour it. Whisk it for three hours till 
the mixture is thick and white; then, 
with a thin broad bit of board, spread it 
all over the top and sides, and set it ina 
cool oven, and an hour will harden it. 

Ice1ne for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an 
egg and some melted butter well toge- 
ther; wash the tarts with a feather, and 
sift sugar over as you put them into the 
oven ; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, 
and sift white sugar. 

Ice Water.—Rub some fine sugar on 


( 291 ) 


IND 


lemon or orange, to give it the colour and 
flavour, thensqueeze the juice of either 
on its respective peel; add water and 
sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain 
it before it is put into the ice-pot. If 
orange, the greater proportion should be 
of the Chinajuice, andonly a little Seville 
used, and a small bit of the peel grated 
by the sugar. ; 

IMPERIAL.—Put two ounces of cream of: 
tartar, and the juice and peel of two 
lemons, into a stone jar, pour on them — 
seven quarts of boiling water, stir, and 
cover close. When cold, sweeten it with 
loaf sugar, strain it, bottle and cork it 
tight. Add in bottling, halfa pint to the 
whole quantity. 

Inp1a Pickle.*—Take one pound of 
ginger, put it into a pan with salt and 
water, and letit lay all night, thenscrape 
it, and cut it into thin slices ; put it into 
a pan with half a pound of bay salt, and 
let it lay till all the following ingredients 
are prepared; a pound of garlic peeled, 
and laid in salt for three days, then take 
it out, wash it, then let it lay in salt for 
another three days, then take it out and 
let it lay in the sun for another, till half 
dry; an ounce of long pepper, an ounce 
of capsicum, salted and laid in the sun 
for three days, a pint of black mustarde 
seed bruised, half an ounce of turmeric, 
beat very small; put all these ingredi- 
ents together in a jar, then put in as 
much vinegar, as, when the cabbage, or 
whatever you intend to pickle, is put into 
it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the 
jar. . Then take cabbage, cauliflower, or 
whatever you choose to pickle, and cut 
them into small pieces, throw a good 
handful of salt over them, and set them 
in the sun (when it is very hot) for three 
days, drain the water from them every 
day, and fresh salt them again, turning 
the leaves till they are dry, then put 
them into the pickle, being particular 
that they are completely covered with 
the vinegar; tie it up close, let it stand a 
fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, 
carefully watch it from time to time, to 
fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste 
very fast. 

Inpia Pickle.*—One gallon of vinegar 
one pound of garlic, a quarter of a pound 
of long pepper split, half a pound of flour 
of mustard, one pound of ginger scraped, 
and split, and two ounces of turmeric. 
When you have prepared the spice, and 
put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boil- 
ing hot over it, and stir it every day for 
a week, Then putin your cabbage, cauli- 
flower, or whatever you intend to pickle. - 

IrisH Stew—Take the best end of a 
neck of a tga , take off the under bone, 


ITA 


and cut it into chops; season them with 
pepper, salt, a little mushroom: powder, 
and beaten mace. Put them into a stew- 
pan, add a large onion sliced, some par- 
sley and thyme tied in»a bunch, anda 
pint of veal broth. Simmer the chops 
till three parts done, then add some 
whole potatoes peeled, and let them stew 
till done. Serve it up in a deep dish. 
The parsley and thyme must be taken 
out when the siew is to be served up. 
Istnauass to Clarify.—Take about two 
ounces of the best and clearest sort of 
isinglass for a quart mould of jelly, put it 
into a stewpan, with just sufficient quan- 
tity of cold water to completely cover it ; 
set it by the stove, with a spoon in it, to 
stir it at-times, and skim it when any 
scum rises ; let it boil very gently, and 
well reduce, only be careful not to re- 
duce it too much, as it will burn, and, of 
course, get a bad taste, and spoil your 
jelly; when you think it is sufficiently 
reduced, and looks clear, pass it through 
a sieve into a baron, ready for use. 
Istneuass, fo Clarify.*—Take an ounce 
and quarter of the best isinglass, cut it 
into small pieces, and wash them séveral 
times in warm water. Put the isinglass 
into.a preserving pan, with five glasses of 
filtered water, set it on the fire, and, as 
soon.as it boils, place it at the side of the 
stove, so as to keep up the boiling; take 
off the scum direetly it rises; and when 
the whole is reduced to three quarters, 
strain it through a cloth into a basin for 
use. 
Some add, in clarifying isinglass, 
lemon-peel, to remove its disagreeable 
taste; but as good isinglass ought to 
have no flavour, and as the lemon-peel 
is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, 
it is much better left out. cae 
IstncLass Flummery.—Put six ounces 
of isinglass into a quart of new milk, 
sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep 
it stirring One way all the time, till it is 
jellied; pour it into basins, and. when 
cold turn it out ; you may put in orange 
flower water if you like. 
_ Astneuass Jelly.—Take an ounce of 
isinglass, a quarter of an ounce of cloves 
and a quart of water; boil it till reduced 
to a pint, then strain it over some sugar. 
ITaLienne.*—Put into a saucepan a 
spoonful of shred parsley, half a spoonful 
of shalots, the same of mushrooms (both 
rainced smal!), half a bottle of white wine, 
and an ounce of butter; boil these till no 
moisture remains, then put in two ladles- 
ful of velouté, and one of consommé, set 
it to boil, taking care to skim off all the 
fat; when you find it about the consis- 
tence of clear broth, take it from the fire, 


( 292 ) 


JAC 


put it into another vessel, and keep it hot 
in the Jain marie. ~ i 

ITALIENNE, with Truffles.—Chop some 
nice black truffles, sweat them in a little 
consommé, and mix them with the brown 
Italian sauce. If you happen to have no 
Italienne ready, stew them for half an 
hour in an* espagnole only. Keep this 
sauce thin and highly seasoned. — 


« 


J 


JACK or Pike (to choose).—If the fish 
is fresh, the gills will be red, the fish 
stiff, and the eyes bright: the best sort 
are caught in rivers, the worst are caught 
in ponds; it is an extremely dry fish, 
and very much improved by stuffing and 
sauce. They are not thought much of 
in England, but are much esteemed in 
inland countries. 

Jack or Pike.*—If you wish to serve 
it as a principal dish, do not scale it, but 
take off the gills, draw it, and boil in 
court-bouillon. If as a side dish, it is 
dressed many ways; as for instance, cut 
it in pieces, leaving the scales on, an 
cook it in court-bouillon; when done, 
and you are ready to serve, take off the 
scales, and dish it for table, pouring over 
it any white sauce you think proper, to 
which it is usual to add capers. It may 
also be fricasseed like chickens; in this 
case, cut it into pieces, and put itina 
stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and some mushrcoms}j 
turn it a few times over the fire, and then 
shake in a little flour; moisten with good 
stock and white wine, and stew it over a 
brisk fire; when done, and agreeably 
seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs, 
beat up in cream. It may also be dresse 
en matelote ; or it may be fried, being 
first steeped iu a marinade. 

Jack or Pike (Small), al’ Allemande. 
—Draw them, and cut them inte pieces. 
and putthem ina saucepan, with some 
slices of onion, whole parsley, two bay- 
leaves, some leeks, whole, two cloves, 
salt, coarse pepper, and a bottle of white 
wine. Having simmered half an hour. 
take them off the fire, scale them, cut off 
the fins, and put the slices into a sauce- 
pan. Then strain some court-bouilien 
through a silken sieve, pour it over the 
fish, and keep them hot. When you 
wish to serve, drain the slices of fish, and 
arrange them on the dish. Puta good 
piece of butter into a saucepan, witha 
full spoonful of flour, some grated nut- 
meg, coarse pepper, and half a glass of 
court-bouillon ; turn this sauce over the 
fire till it boils; then add the yolks. of 





JAC 


two eggs to thicken, stirring it well, but 
without letting it boil ; lastly, strain, and 
pour it over the fish. 

Jack or Pike & U Arlequine.*—Take 
a large jack, clean and scale it, take out 
the entrails by the gills; raise the skin 
from one side, being careful not to injure 
the fish; lard a fourth part. of it with 
anchovies, another quarter with gher- 
kins, a third with carrots, and a foarth 
with truffles. Stuff it with a fish farce, 
put it intoa fish kettle; moisten it with 
a braise ; do not, however, let the larded 
parts soak in it; set it on the fire, bast- 
ing frequently with its own liquor ; keep 
fire on the top as wellas under it. When 
done, serve it over a sauce hachée. 

Jack or Pike Baked.—Scale it, and 
open as near the throat as you can, then 
stuff it with the following stuffing: some 
grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, 
oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a 
pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs; 
mix all over the fire till it thickens, then 
put it into the fish, and sew it up; rub it 
all over with butter, and bake it. Serve 
witha sauceofgravy, butter, and anchovy. 
In helping a pike, the back-and belly 
should be slit ups and each slice gently 
drawn downwards; by this means there 
will be fewer bones given. 

_ Jack or Pike Boiled.— Take a large 
jack, clean it, take out the gills; make 
a stuffing with crumbs of bread, grated 
fine, some sweet herbs, chopped small, 
some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pep- 
per, salt, some oysters, chopped small, 
a bit of butter ; mix all these ingredients 
together with the yolks of two eggs; put 
it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the 
tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump- 
water, with some vinegar and salt in it; 
when it boils put in the fish: if the fish 
is large, it will take about three quarters 
of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster 
sauce poured over the fish, and some 
also in a boat. 

— Jack or Pike, Bride’s Fashion.—Cut 
a pike into several pieces, boning and 
flattening them as much as possible; roll 
a good farce round them: tie them in 
bits of cloth, and braise them in white 
wine and broth, with a bit of butter, bits 
of roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper and 
salt : when done, strip each bit, and serve 
with what sauce you think proper; a 
relishing sharp sauce is generally con- 
sidered the best. 

Jack or Pike Brotled as Cutlets. —The 
fillets of pike being taken off with a sharp 
knife, cut each fillet in a sloping manner 
into four or five pieces, at the same time 
taking off the skin; toss them up in an 
egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; 


( 293 ) 


JAC 


lay them on paper, bread crumb taem, 
and with a fork take them up, and dip 
them into clarified butter, then in bread 
crumbs again; broil them over a mo- 
derate fire of clear wood ashes, a good 
colour on both sides; place them ez 
couronne (in form of a crown) round the 
dish; squeeze the juice of nearly halfa 
lemon into four table-spoonsful of butter 
sauce, mix this well up with a bit of 
glaze; when very hot, pour it into the 
centre of the fish. 

Jack or Pike a@ la Chambord.*—Take 
off the scales, and clean a good size jack; 
remove the skin, and lard the fish, an 
put it into a fish-kettle with a marinade ; 
when it boils, take it out, and place it 
in the oven, basting it occasionally. As 
soon as it is sufficiently done, take it 
from the oven, let it drain, and then serve 
it: place round it gwenelles, veal sweet- 
breads larded, cray-fish, artichoke bot- 
toms, croutons, and a garniture ad la 
Chambord : to these may be added 
pigeons @ la Gautier, eels larded with 
truffles, &c. 

Jack or Pike au Court-bouilion.*— 
Clean the fish without opening it, tie up 
the head, put it in the fish-kettle; pour 
the court-bouziion over, and simmer it 
for an hour, or longerif the fish be large. 
If it is served as a réé, let it cool, then 
lay a napkin in a dish, place the fish on 
it, garnished with parsley. 

Jack or Pike au Dauphin.* —Empty 
and scale a large jack ; soak it in oil, 
with sweet herbs, salt and spices: pass 
a skewer through its eyes and the middle 
of the body, giving it the form of a dol- 
phin; bake it, basting with the mari- 
nade, and serve it with capers or anchovy 
sauce. 

Jack or Pike Fricassée (/Vhite).— 
Thoroughly wash the pike, then cut it 
into large pieces, and put them intoa 
stewpan, with butter, some mushrooms, 
a dozen of small onions, half boiled, some 
parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, 
a bay-leaf; soak these together some 
time, then add a pint of white wine and 
broth, salt and whole pepper; boil ona 
quick fire, reduce the sauce; take out 
the parsley, shalots, cloves, thyme, and 
bay-leaf, and thicken with cream, eggs, 
and a little nutmeg, and.a squeeze of 
lemon, provided the wine does not make 
it sufficiently tart. 

Jacx or Pike with Gravy.*—Lard a 
jack with bacon; line a stewpan with 
slices of veal and bacon; lay your jack 
on them, cover it with the same, and let 
it stand over a slow fire for half an hour, 
then pour over it a bottle of white wine, 
and a Poe Pa good stuck or consomme ; 


JAC 


close the stewpan tight, place it in the 
oven ; when done, serve it with the braise 
and its own gravy. z 
Jack or Pike, Grenadins of.*—Hav- 
ing scaled and otherwise prepared the 
fish, cut it into pieces, lard them with 
streaky bacon, and put them into a stew- 
pan; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
fillet of veal, cut into dice, white wine 
and broth; stew it, and when done, 
strain the liquor; lay the pieces of jack 
in a dish, glaze them, and serve with any 
Sauce you please. 
* Jack or Pike ad ? Italienne.*—Put some 
sinall jack into a stewpan with some olive 
oil, sliced onions, a clove of garlic, car- 
rots, a bay-leaf, white wine, stock, salt 
and pepper ; stew them over a slow fire, 
take off the fat, and serve them in the 
sauce. :; 


Jack or Pike & la Mattre d’ Hétel.*— 


Having cleaned, scaled, and emptied 
some small pike, wrap them in a sheet 
of buttered paper, and broil them. When 
done, open them, and take out the 
spawn (if there be any), and put in its 
place a piece of butter, worked up with 
some shred parsley, salt and pepper. 
Jack or Pike en Matelote.*—Cut the 
pike in pieces, put them into a stewpan, 
with bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, parsley, 
scallions, scalded onions, salt, pepper, 
- and a bottle of red wine; boil it up, and 
add some butter, mixed with flour, and 
browned with whatever garniture you 
may have by you; boil the whole to- 
gether half an hour, and then serve all 
the articles together in.a large dish. 
Any other fish may be added to the 
matelote ; but they should not be put in 
till the pieces of jack are partly done. 
Jack or Pike Potted.— Scale it, and 
cut off the head: spiit it, and take out 
the back bone; strew it all over with 
bay-salt and pepper ; cover it, and bake 
it; then take it out, and lay it on a 
coarse cloth to drain; when it is cold, 
lay it ina pot just large enough to hold 
‘it, and cover it with clarified butter. 
It must be thoroughly drained from 
the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. 
Jack or Pike Salad.* —Cut the re- 
mains of a cold pike into pieces, and mix 
with it capers, gherkins, anchovies, and 
some herbs, shred: serve the jack, gar- 
nishing the dish with lettuces and hard 
eggs. Mix oil and vinegar at table. 
Jack or Pike Stuffed and Roasted.*-- 
Let the fish Jay for some days, then 
SEES, and scale it: if it be for a mazgre 
dish, lard it with anchovies and gherkins, 
or truffles; if not, with bacon rolled in 
Salt, spices, shred parsley and scallions; 
stuff it: wrap the fish in a buttered 


( 254 5 





JEL 


paper, on which spread sweet herbs, 
spices, and salt; fasten it en the spit. 
and baste with white wine and melte 

butter. When dene, take off the paper, 


and serve with a pretty thick sauce 
piquante. Aids : 


JARDINIERE.*—The jardiniere is 
composed of the same articles, and in a 
similar manner to the Macédoine, the 


only difference consists in the sauce 5 


the vegetables for this being put intoa 
reduced espagnole, or a demi-glace of 
roots: it is used on the same occasions 
as the Macédoine. : 

JAUNE Mange.— Boil an ounce of 
isinglass in three quarters of a pint of 


‘water till melted ; strain it, then add the 
juice of two Seville oranges, a quarter of 


a pint of white wine, the yolks of four 
eggs, beaten and strained ; sugar accord~ 
ing to taste; stir it over a gentle fire till 
it just boils up: when cold, put it intoa 
mould, taking care, if there should hap- 
pen to be any sediment, not to pour it 


in. 

JELLY ¢o cover Cold Fish.-Take @ 
maid, clean it, and put it into three 
quarts of water, with a calf’s foot or cow- 
heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, 
three blades of mace, some white peppers 
a bit of lemon-peel, and a slice of lean 
gammon of bacon. Let it stew till it 
will jelly, then strain it off; when cold, 
remove evety bit of fat; take it up from 
the sediment, and boil it with a glass of 
sherry, the whites of five eggs, and a bit 
of lemon. Boil without stirring it, and 
after a few minutes, set it by to stand for 
half an hour, and strain it through a bag 
or sieve, with a napkinin it When cold, 
cover the fish with it. 

Jeviuies for Entremets.*—Hartshorn 
calf’s feet, and isinglass, are the usual 


| materials used to coagulate sweet jellies ; 


of these three, the latter is the best, as, 


| when properly clarified, (for which see 


Isinglass), it is the clearest, and has no 
unpleasant flavour. is 

Jellies are made,of all sorts of fruit, 
and sometimes of flowers and LIQUEURS. 
For directions to prepare them, see the 
various articles of which they are com- 
posed. 

Jeuty of Fromage Bavarois.* — Put 
the yolks of nine eggs into a stewpan, 
with a little salt, half a pound of sugar 
a pinch of crisped orange-flowers, an 
half a pint of cream (previously ye hh 
set these over a gentile fire, and stir till 
it thickens, taking particular care that 
it does not boil, then strain it through a 
silk sieve; have ready an ounce of 
clarified isinglass, mix it with the cream 
and a Chantilly cheese ; when well incor- 





JEL 


porated, pour it into a mould, and finish 
with ice as jelly printanniére. 
» JELLY (Fruit).*—Clarify half a pound 
of sugar, but the instant before it is quite 
clear, putin a small quantity of cochineai;. 
then strain, and mix with it an ounce of 
clarified isinglass, and the juice of two 
lemons; add to this the fruit of which 
your jeily is to be composed; stir them 
together lightly, pour the jelly into a 
mould quickly, and pat the mould on ice. 
bserve that the sugar and isinglass 
should be no more than lukewarm when 
mixed together. These jellies may be 
made of any kind of fruit, or the grated 
rinds of lemon, orange, or cedrats. 

JELLY, Gloucester.—Take an ounce of 
rice, the same of sago, pearl-barley, 
hartshorn-shavings, and eringo root; 
simmer with three pints of water, till 
reduced to one pint, strain it. When 
cold it will be a jelly; when you use it, 
serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. 

Jewty, [éalian.—Make a wine or cali’s 
foot jelly, with which half fill your mould; 
when thoroughly set, take some Italian 
cream that has beer turned out of a plain 
mould, cut this into slices, and after- 
wards cut it with a middling-sized plain 
round cutter; these pieces of cream lay 

in a circle round your jelly; when allare 
- arranged, very gently putin jelly enough 
to cover thein; when that is set, fill up 
your mould, and when wanted, turn it 
out the same as any other jelly. 

Jetty, Ivory Dust.*—Boil one pound 
ofivory-dust in five pints of water till 
reduced to a quart, strain it, and add to 
it one quart more water to the dust, 
boiled till reduced to a pint, then strain 
it; when strained, squeeze in some 
orange and lemon-juice, and sweeten ac- 
cording to taste. 

Jetty, to Keep.—Take a leg of beef, 
and two shins, cut in pieces, a knuckle 
of veal; chop it all to pieces; one or two 
old cocks or hens, skinned, and two calf’s 
feet; put all these into ten quarts of 
water, and boil them down to a strong 
jelly, skim it well; add some salt, and 
run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. 

Jeuty, Mosaic.—Boil half a pint of 
cream: when: it boils, infuse the peel, 
either of an orange or a lemon, accord- 
ing as you wish to decorate the jelly with 
either. When the cream has imbibed 
the flavour of the fruit, sweeten it with a 
little sugar. Beat up with the cream 
the yolks of four eggs, lay it on the fire 
to iicken, and then put in some isin- 
glass that has been previously melted, 
Strain the whole through a hair sieve, 
and put it, well covered, on some ice, 
that it may get quite firm. Take the 
rsould which you intend to use, brush it 


(295 ) 





JEL 


lightly all over with oil, and then cut the 
white cream jelly with a knife in the first 
place, and next with small tin cutters, 


Decorate the mould without putting it 
on ice, for the damp would prevent the 


decoration from sticking on. Decorate 
the bottom first, then the sides; then 
only put the mould overice. Next pour 
a little orange jelly lightly, not to injure 
the decoration, and let it get thick. 
When the orange jelly.is frozen, thrust 
the mould deeper into the ice, then put 
a little more jelly to the height of the 
lower decoration on the sides; let the 
preparation be made firm again; mind 
the jelly is never to come higher than 
the flowerets, till the bottom has been 
first made firm; then gradually ascend 
the top. Cover and surround the mould 
with ice. When you wish to serve, dip 
a towel into some hot water, and rub the 
mould all round. Be careful that none 
of the jelly sticks to the sides before you 


touch the bottom of the mould. Then 


rub the bottom with the hot towel, and 
turn the jelly neatly into a dish. ere 
not all these precautions attended to, 
the two colours would melt and mix 
together. This jelly looks beautiful when 
it is well made. 

This jelly can only be well made in 
winter time; for during the summer 
season it wonld melt, except made hard 5 
then it would not be so good. Butif you 
should be particularly desirous of making 
it during the summer season, you must 


| work it in a very cold place. 


Jetty Printanniére.*—Clarify three 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and an 
ounce of isinglass, as directed for each; 
and having beter your fruits or 
flowers according to the recipes, (see 
the various articles), mix them with the 
sugar when no more than lukewarm 3 
strain the mixture through a silk sieve, 
add the isinglass, stir lightly with a 


| silver spoon, ard put it into a mould ; take 


about ten pounds of ice, break it up, put 
it into a tub or pail, in which immerse 
the mould for three hours: then take 
out the mould, dip it in hot water as 
quick as possible, and then turn thé jelly 
into a dish for table. 

JELLY Ribband.— Boil four calf’s feet 
without the great bones, in ten quarts of 
water, three ounces of hartshurn, three 
ounces of isinglass, a nutmeg quartered, 
and four blades of mace} boil till it is 
reduced to two quarts; strain it through 
a flannel bag, and when it has stoud 
twenty-four hours, scrape off all the fat 
very clean, slice the jelly, add the whites 
of six eggs beaten to a froth, and boil the 
whole up, and strain it through a flannel 
bag. Then pour it inte small high 


JEL. 


glasses, and run each colour as thick as 
a finger, each colour being thoroughly 
cold before another is poured on, which 
must be only lukewarm, or they will mix 
together. Red may be made with eochi- 
neal, green with spinach, yellow with saf- 
fron, blue with syrup of violets, and white 
with thick cream: the plain jelly itself 
may be used as a colour. 

Jetty Rubanée.*—Prepare nine yolks 
of eggs as directed for jelly of fromage- 
bavarois, but without the orange-flower ; 
when strained, add an ounce and half of 
clarified isinglass, and divide your pre- 
paration into four parts, in one of which 
put an infusion of chocolate; to the 
second, add an infusion of orange-flow- 
ers; to the third some spinach-juice and 
bitter macaroons crushed; and put to the 
fourth some dblanemange. Place your 
mould in ice, as much of each of these 

ortions alternately as will occupy an 
inch in depth; taking care that every 
layer is set before you pour on another. 

JELLY, Russtan.*—Clarify three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, and two ounces 
of isinglass, put them together into an 
earthen pan, which place on ice; add to 
it the juice of two lemons, and four small 
glasses of kirschwasers; then take a whisk 
and beat it up over the ice till it becomes 
as white as beaten egg; the moment it 
gets firm, put it intoa mould, and finish 
the jelly in the usual way. 

JELLY, Savoury, to put over Cold Pies. 
—It should be made either of a small 
bare knuckle of leg, or shoulder, of veal, 
or a piece of scrag of mutton ; or, if the 
pie is made of fowl, or rabbits, the car- 
casses, necks, or heads, added to any piece 
of meat, will be sufficient, observing to 
give consistence by cowhee!l or shanks of 
mutton. Put the meat, with a slice of 
ham, or bacon, a bundle of different 
herbs, two blades of mace, an onion, or 
two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea- 
a ak of Jamaica pepper bruised, and 
the same quantity of whole pepper, and 
three pints of water, into a stewpan that 
shuts very close. When it boils, skim it 
well, and let it simmer slowly till quite 
strong; then strain it, and when cold, 
take off all the fat you possibly can with 
a spoon ; and then, toremove every parti- 
cle of grease, lay aciean piece of cap or 
blotting paper onit. If, when it is cold, 
it is not clear, boil it a few minutes with 
the whites of two eggs (but do not add 
the sediment), and pour it through a nice 
sieve, with a napkin in it, which should 
be previously dipped in hot water, to pre- 
vent waste. 

JELLY Savoury.—Take all the scum off 
from the cold liquor that either poultry 
or meat has been braised in, or some veal 


( 296 ) 


JON 


stock, and make it warm; strain it 
through a sieve into a stewpan, and season 
it tothe palate with salt, lemon-pickle, 


Cayenne pepper, and tarragon or plain. 
vinegar; add enough of dissolved isin-. 


glass to make it of a proper stiffness 

whisk in plenty of whites of eggs, a smal 

quantity of the yolks and shells, and just 
colour it; set it over the fire, and let it. 
boil, then simmer it for a quarter of an 
hour, and run it through a jelly bag 
several times, till bright and fine. 


Jevty Vhipped.*—Make ajelly Prin-. 


tanniére, and pour about a quarter of it 
into a mould, and ice it, ‘as therein di- 
rected; then take the mould, and place a 
basin in its stead, in which put the re- 
mainder of the jelly, and whip it with a 
whisk, as you would eggs, over the jelly, 
until the globules are no bigger than pins’ 
heads; pour it into the mould, and re- 
place it on the ice for three quarters of an 
hour, after which turn it out as usual. 

JESSAMINE to Candy. * — Boil a 
pound of clarified sugar to fort perlé, and 
when about half cold throw in two hands- 
ful of jessamine flowers, and place them 
on hot ashes for two hours, that the 
flowers may dry well; then drain them 
on a sieve from the sugar, and have 
ready some more, sifted, in which put the 


jessamine, rubbing them well with your . 


hands; place them again on a sieve, and 
set them in a stove till next day; after 
which sift the flowers; take three pounds 
of clarified sugar, boil it to souflé, have 
a proper mould ready, pour the sugar 
into it, and put the flowers om it, push 
them down lightly with a fork, that they 
may be completely covered with the su- 
gar; place the mould in a moderate 
stove or oven for five days, then drain 
off the syrup; lay a sheet of paper on the 
table, and turn the candy quickly out of 
the mould. 

JOHN DOREY Bozled.—Set it over 
the fire in cold spring-water; treat it 


' exactly the same as turbot, and serve it 


with lobster sauce ina boat. 

Joun Dorey @ la Créme.—Rub your 
fish over with lemon, cover it with paper, 
and put it into a kettle, with half milk 
and half water, a_ bit of butter, salt, and 


a lemon squeezed in, set it on the fire,’ 


and let it simmer gently till done; take 
it up, and drain it from the liquor, lay it 
on a dish, and pour a good cream sauce 
allover it. It will be much improved by 
mushrooms. 

JONQUILS, Candy — These 
flowers are candied precisely in the same 
way as the jessamine. 

_ Jonguits Whole.*—Take some double 
jonquils, cut the stalks about a quarter 
ofan inch from the flowers; give them 








JUN 


one boil in some sugar, (liquid); then re- 
move them from the fire, and let them 
stand a quarter of an hour; drain them 
well, and put them into some sifted su- 
gar, working them about, and taking care 
that all the leaves may imbibe an equal 
hen wee of sugar, and the form of the 

ower preserved, which may be done by 
shaking each, and blowing away the su- 
perfluous sugar ; lay white paper on a 
sieve, and arrange the flowers on it one 
by one, dry them in astove ; keep them 
in boxes ina dry place. 

These flowers may also be candied as 
above ; in which case, the moulds should 
havea sort of grating at the top for the 
flowers: place a weight on to keep them 
immersed in the sugar. 

JULIENNE.*—This soup is composed 
of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, 
lettuce, sorrel and chervil; the roots are 
cut in thin slips, about an inch long, 
the onions are halved and then sliced ; 
the lettuce and sorrel chopped small ; 
toss up the roots ina little butter, when 


moisten them with broth, and boil the. 
whole over a slow fire for an hour or 
more, if necessary ;. prepare some bread 
in the usual way, and pour the julienne 
over if. 

JUMBLES.—Mix one pound of fine 
flour with one pound of fine powder su- 
gar, make them into a light paste with 
whites of eggs well beaten; add half a 
pint of cream, half a pound of fresh but- 
ter, melted, and a pound of blanched al- 
monds, pounded; knead _ them all toge- 
ther, thoroughly, with a little rose-water, 
and cut out the ijumbles into whatever 
forms you think proper; and either 
bake them in a gentle oven, or fry them 
in fresh butter; serve them in a dish, 
melt fresh butter with a spoonful of 
mountain, and strew fine sugar over the 


dish. 

JUNIPER BERRIES, (Ices of).—In- 
fuse some juniper berries in warm water, 
or take about a handful of the berries, 
and boil them a moment with a pint of 
water, half a pound of sugar, anda bit of 
cinnamon, ae sift them through a sieve 
with expression, and finish the same as 
al] others. 

Junirer, Ratafia of. — Infuse two 
ounces of ripe juniper berries in two pints 
of brandy, adding half an ounce of cin- 
namon, three cloves, a little aniseed 
and coriander seed; add half a pound of 
sugar to each ab of brandy, having 

reviously boiled it ina very little water. 
et the whole infuse in a jar for six 
weeks, then strain, and bottle it. 

Junirer, Ratafia of.*— Take three 
ounces of juniper berries, anise, corian- 


( 297 ) 





KER 


der, cinnamon, and cloves, of each 


| eighteen grains; bruise all these ingre- 


dients, and infuse them; for a month, in 
three pints of brandy; then strain it, 
add three quarters of a pound of sugar 
dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them 
together, pass the whole through a jellys 
bag, and bottle it; keep it well corked. 

Juniper, (Ratafia of). — Take three 

ints of ratafia, put a quart of brandy 
into a jar, with a handful of juniper ber- 
ries, and one pound and a half of sugar, 
boiled in a quart of water, and well 
skimmed; stop the jar up close, and set 
it for about five weeks in a warm place ; 
then strain it through a filtering cloth, 
and, when it is quite clear, put it into 
bottles, taking care to cork them well. 
The ratafia will be all the better for 
keeping. 

JUNKET, Devonshire.—Warm some 
milk;and put it intoa bowl; turn it with 
rennet ; soph put some scalded cream, 
sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, with- 


| out breaking the curd. 
they are done, add the lettuces, &c. | 


K, 

KAVIA.*—Take the hard roes of see 
veral sturgeon, and lay themin a tub of 
water; take away all the fibres as you 
would froma calf’s brains, then, witha 
whisk, beat the roes in the water, shak- 
ing off from the whisk whatever fibres 
may be adhering to it; then lay the roes: 
on sieves fora short time; after which 
put them into fresh water again; and 
continue to whip them, and change the 
water, until the roes are perfectly cleans- 
ed and free from fibre; lay them on 
sieves to drain, season them well with 
salt and pepper; wrap them ina coarse 
cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let 
them drain thus till the next. day, when 
serve them with fried bread, and shalots 
chopped small. If they are to be kept 
for some time, put more salt to them. 

KERNELS, Créme of.*—Take half a 


| pound of apricot kernels, cut them into 


small pieces, and infuse them in a gallon 


| and a halfof brandy and a quart of water 


for a week; then distil it; dissolve three 


}pounds of sugar in a pint of orange 


flower water, and three quarts of water 5 
add this to the distilled Zqueur ; filter n 


the whole through a jelly bag, and bot- 
| tle it. 


Keene Water (Phalsbourg).*—Take 
a pound of apricot, half a pound of peach, 
and cherry kernels, put them to soak in 
warm river water ; the next day, peel, and 
put them to infuse in three quarts of 
brandy for nine days; then distil them 
in an alembic in the dan marie. Dissolve 


KID 


four pounds of crushed sugar, in three 
quarts of filtered water, add halfa pound 
of orange flower water, mix this with the 
brandy, strain it through a jelly-bag and 
bottle it. 

Kerne ts, Ratafia of.—Take a pound of 
apricot kernels, or, if you choose, you 
need only use almonds. Let them in- 
fuse eight days in two bottles of brandy, 
and one bottle of water, with a pound of 
sugar, a handful of coriander-seed, and a 
small ae, of cinnamon}; then strain 
through a filtering bag, and when quite 
clear, bottle it off. 

TCHUDP, English.—Peel ten cloves 
of garlic, bruise them, and put them into 
& quart of white wine vinegar; take a 
quart of white port, put it on the fire, 
and when it boils, put in twelve or four- 
teen anchovies, washed and cut in pieces; 
let them simmer in the wine till they are 
dissolved ; when cold, put them to the 
vinegar; then take half a pint of white 
wine, and put into it some mace, some 
ginger sliced, a few cloves, a spoonful of 
whole pepper bruised; let them boil a 
little; when almost cold, slice in a whole 
nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with two 
or three spoonsful of horse-radish; add 
it tu the rest, stop it cluse, and stir it once 
or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. 
Keep it close stopped up. 

Ketcuup, /VAtte-—Take a quart of 
white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, and 
one quart of water; half a pound of an- 
chovies, with their liquor, half a pound of 
scraped horse-radish, an ounce of shalots 
bruised, an ounce of white pepper bruised, 
an ounce of mace, and a quarter of an 
ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters; boil 
all together till half is consumed, then 
strain it off, and when cold, bottle it for 
use. It is proper for any white sauce, or 
to put into melted butter. 

KID.—Kid is good eating when itis but 
three or four months old, its flesh is then 
delicate and tender, but is not used after 
it has done sucking. To be good, itought 
to be fat and white. It is dressed in the 
same manner as lamb or fawn. i 

Kip ¢o Roast.—Take the head of the 
kid and prick it backwards, over the 
shoulders, and tie it down; then lard it 
with bacon, and draw it with lemon-peel 
and thyme; then make a furce of grated 
bread, flour, some forcemeat, minced 
small, beef suet, and sweet herbs, season 
with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nut- 
meg, add some cream, and the yolks of 
four eggs; put this farce into the caul of 
the kid, and put into the inside, sew it up 
close, roast it, and serve with venison 


sauce. 
KIDNEYS.—Cut them through the 
long way, score them, and sprinkle them 


( 298 ) 


KIR 


over with a little pepper and salt; in 
order to broil all over alike, and to keep 
them from curling on the gridiron, run @ 
wire skewer right through them. : 

They must be broiled over aclear fire, 
being careful to turn them frequently till 
they are done; they will take about ten 
or twelve minutes broiling, provided they 
are done over a brisk fire; or, if you 
choose, you may fry them in butter, and 
make gravy for them in the pan (after the 
kidneys are taken out), by putting in a 
teaspoonful of flour; as soon as it looks 
brown, put in a sufficient quantity of 
water as will make gravy; they will take 
five minutes longer frying than broiling. 
Garnish with fried parsley: you may im- 
prove them if youthink proper, by chop- 
ping a few parsley leaves very fine, mix 
them with a bit of fresh butter, and a 
little pepper and salt, and then put some 
of this mixture over each kidney. 

Kipney Dumplings.* — Make your 
dumplings in the usual way, put in each 
a mutton kidney, well washed, and sea- 
soned, with pepper and salt; boil them 
tied in a cloth, and serve them very hot. : 

Krpney Omelet.*—Take a fine kidney 
from a cold roasted loin of veal, mince 
and soak it well in some cream; break 
seven or eight eggs on it, season with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; beat the 
whole with a whisk, and fry your omelet, 
taking care to keep it pretty thick. , 

Kipney Pasty.—Roast a loin of veal ; 
when it is almost done, take the kidney, 
the fat, and some of the meat, and mince 
it small, with the marrow of half a dozen 
veal marrow bones, cold; season with 
marjoram, thyme, and winter savory, cut 
small or pounded; add a quarter of a 
pint of rose-water, the yolks of six eggs, 
a little nutmey sliced, half a pound of 
sugar, and halfa pound of currants ; mix 
all well together; and make them up in 
small pasties of puff paste, and fry them 
in butter. 

Kipney Pudding.*—Take a nice beef 
kidney, split it and soakit, then sea- 
son it with pepper and salt; make a 
paste, put in the kidney, cover with the 
paste, and pinch round the edge; it will 
take some time boiling. bat 

KIRSCHEN /Wasser.*—The best cher- 
ries for this purpose are the morella, 
which should be taken when quite ripe: 
take off the stalks, and put the fruit into 
atub. Have some new wood ashes, and 
wet them so as to make a kind of mortar 
of them, and extend it over the cherries ; 
these ashes in drying form a complete 
hard crust, and thus prevents any eva- 
poration, and assists the fermentation. 
Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the 
end of which, remove the ashes, and 





i 


ne te ee 


at Ba II 





KIS 


take out the pulp and juice of the cher- 
ries immediately under it, and put them 
into the cucurbite (but not enough to 
fill it), and distil them. The fire, during 
the operation, should be managed with 
great care, and increased gradually till 
the produce of your distillation flows 
in asmail stream, and cease the instant 
the phlegm begins to appear; then 
throw away the dregs from the cucurbite, 
and put more cherries in, and distil as 
before. 

Kirscuen /Vasser. — Bruise the 
kernels of some cherries, and throw 
them, with their shells, into brandy ; let 
them infuse till the season when you can 
add some apricot kernels, without the 
shells, then leaving them to infuse for 
two months longer, you must filter off 
the infusion, then distil it, by which 
means it will become as clear as the real 
kirschen-wasser of the Black Forest. 

Kirscuen Wasser Créme.* — Take 
three quarts of old kirschen-wasser, rec- 
tify it, by which you will obtain two 
quarts of gueur, to which add four 
ounces of double orange flower water; 
dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar 
in three pints of distilled river water, 
over the fire ; when cold, mix it with the 
kirschen-wasser, filter and bottle it. 

KISSES.*—Put the whites of eight 
eggs, and two spoonsful of orange flower 
water, intoa china basin, and whisk till 
they become a firm froth, then add half 
a pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with 
great care by means of a spatula: that 
done, lay small pieces of this mixture on 
white paper; make each drop about the 
size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; 
place the paper which contains them on 
a piece of wood about an inch thick, and 
put them in a very hot oven: watch 
them, and as soon as you perceive they 
begin to look yellowish, take them out, 
and detach them from the paper with 
a knife as cautiously as possible, for they 
are very tender. Take a small spoon, 
and with the end of it remove the moist 
part, which is at the bottom, so as to 
make them a little hollow, and as you 
do them, lay each on the paper, the hol- 
low side upwards; put them on the wood 
into the oven again for a few minutes to 
dry; when done, Jay them in boxes, 
and keep them in a dry and warm place. 
If they are for table, fill the hollow of 
each with a little whipped cream or rasp- 
berry-jam ; put them together by couples, 
the cream or jam inside; place them in 
a dik, and serve them as s00n as pos- 
sible. 


( 299 ) 


LAM 


L. 


LAMB to Choose.—The vein in the 
neck of a fore-quarter of lamb ought to be 
of a fine blue, it is then fresh; ifitis ofa 
green or yellow cast, itis stale; ifin the 
hind-quarter, there is a faint disagreeable 
smell under the kidney, or if the knuckle 
is limp, it is not good; if the eyes are 
sunk, the head is not fresh; grass lamb 
is in season in April or May, and con- 
tinues good till August. House Lamb 
may be had in great towns generally ali 
the year round, but is in its highest per- 
fection in December ana January. 

Fore-quarter includes the shoulder, 
neck, and breast. 

Hind-quarter is the leg and loin. 

The Head: the pluck is generally sold 
with the head, which contains the liver, 
lights, heart, nut, and melt. 

The Fry contains the sweethbreads, 
pbauness and skirts, with some of the 
iver. 

Lams Baked with Rice.— Half roast 
either a neck or loin of lamb, then cut it 
into steaks ; boil halfa pound of rice in 
water for ten minutes, and put to it a 
quart of good gravy. with some nutmeg, 
and two or three blades of mace; stew it 
over a slow fire or stove till the rice be- 
gins to thicken ; then take it off, stir in a 
pound of butter, and when quite melt- 
ed, add the yolks of six eggs finely 
beaten ; butter a dish all over, put a little 
pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in 
melted butter, and lay them in the but- 
tered dish; pour upon them the gravy 
which comes from them, and then the 
rice; pour over the yolks of three egys 
finely beaten, send it to the oven, 
rather more than half an hour will be 
sufficient, to bake it. 

Lams Blanquette of.*—Roast a leg of 
lamb, and when cold take off all the 
skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, 
all the same size and thickness, cut off 
the angles so as to make them nearly 
round, beat them with the handle of a 
knife, and put them into a saucepan. with 
some fried mushrooms, four ladlesful of 
velouté travaillé, and a little pepper; set 
the saucepan on the fire for afew minutes, 
thicken it with the yolks of two eggs; 
make it quite hot, and serve the blan- 
quette with sippets. 

Lams’s Brains. *— Are generally 
reckoned more delicate than those of the 
sheep: they are mostly prepared in the 
Same manner as calf’s brains. 

- Lamp’s Brains en Mayonraise.*—Take 
eight lamb’s brains, and having washed 


LAM 


and prepared them for dressing, in the 
ine’ vas as calf’s brains, blanch, and then 
drain them in-a cloth; lay them ona dish, 
with tongue d lV’écarlate, cut like cock’s- 
combs, between each brain; place hard 
eges, gherkins, a pretty firm mayonnaise 
and a glass of ravigote in the centre, an 
garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. 

Lams Breast of, with Cucumbers.—Cut 
the chine bone off from the breast, and 
put it to stew with a pint of gravy; when 

the bones would draw out, put it on the 
gridiron to grill; and then serve it in a 
dish on nicely stewed cucumbers. 

Lams, Breast of, to be eaten Cold.— 
Bone a breast of lamb, then have a good 
forcemeat made of fat livers, truffles, &c. 
the same as for raised pies, and an ome- 
lette made of the white of eggs, and of the 
yolks, coloured with spinach juice ; when 
cold cut them in long slips, first lay some 
forcemeat, then the slips of omelettes, 
with a few truffles laid between, and like- 
wise some fat livers; then spread all over 
with the fercemeat, roli it in a nap- 
kin, and put it to stew very gently for 
three or four hours; when done, let it 
stand in the liquor till cold, then take it 
out, and let it stand for two days before 
you cut it ; trim it well, lay it on the dish, 
and garnish it with aspic jelly, minced 
and scattered round it. : 

Lams, Breast of, with Pense.—Braise 
a breast of lamb, and then having taken 
out the small bones, flatten it: when cold 
cut it into small pieces, and put them into 
the braise to heat, drain and glaze them, 
and serve with pease (prepared as follows) 

oured over them: put some young pease 
tato water, witha little fresh butter ; drain 
and put them into a saucepan, witha 
slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and 
green onions, stew them gently over a 
slow fire; reduce them with twn spoons- 
ful of espagnole, and a little sugar. If 
you wish this dish white, use sauce 
ayes for the pease, instead of espag- 
nole. 

Lampe (Breast of) Rolledin a Ragout. 
—Takea breast of lamb that is cut rather 
broad, take out all the bones, spread it 

well with veal forcemeat, and roll it up, 
tying it well up with pack thread, and 
let it stew gently in some good braise ; 
when well stewed take it out, putitina 
moderate oven, and glaze it two or three 
times; then have a good ragout ready, 
pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb 
upon it. 

Lams Chops en Casserole.—Take a loin 
of lamb, cut itinto chops, egg them with 
yolk of egg on both sides, strew them 
over with bread crumbs, with mace, 
cloves, pepper, and salt, mixed; fry 
them of alight brown, and place them on 


( 300 ) 


LAM 


a dish in form of a crown; make a sauce 
of sweet herbs and parsley, chopped fine, 
and stewed in a little thick gravy. Pour 
this sauce into the middle of the dish. 


| Serve garnished with fried parsley. 


Lams (Cromesquis of). — Take the 
same preparation as the croguettes ; roll 
into small balls; wrap each in a thin 
slice of ready dressed calf’s udder; dip 
them in batter, and fry them. Serve 
witn fried parsley. ' 

Lams (Croquettes of ).*—Take a cold 
roasted leg (or any other part) of lamb, 
cut off the meat, clear away all the skin 
and sinews, and mince it; mince also a 
little lamb fat or calf’s udder, and some 
mushrooms (ready dressed); mix all 
these together, season them with nut- 
meg, salt, and pepper. Put half a dozen 
ladlesful of velouté, and four of jelly, into 
a saucepan; reduce it to rather less than 
half, and add the yolks of three eggs, 
stirring constantly; when the sauce is 
thickened, put in an ounce of butter, 
and stir till it is dissolved.. Strain this 
sauce over the meat, stirring as before, 
then let it stand; when cold, stir it once 
more, and then with a desert-spoon lay 
it on a table ia little heaps; when all the 
meat is thus disposed, take up each heap 
in your hand, and form them into what- 
ever shape you Dieaees (either round, 
oval, pear-shaped, &c.); roll them in 
bread crumbs; beat up three yolks and 
two whole eggs, with a little salt and 
pepper; dip the eroguettes in this, and 
bread them a second time; take care 
that. they are well covered; fry them in 
a hot pan: when done, drain and place 
them in a pyramid on your dish, with 
fried parsley over them. Make a sauce 
as follows: cut some mushrooms into 
dice, and put them into a saucepan, with 
an ounce of butter; give them a few 
turns over the fire, and then add a few 
scallions shred small; when they have 
had a turn or two, put in a spoonful of 
flour, a ladleful of stock, and a bay-leaf; 
reduce the sauce, and then take out the 
bay-leaf, and put in the yolks of four 
eggs, and another ounce of. butter 3 stir 
the whole till of the proper consistence, 
when pour it over the croguettes. A little 
shred parsley may be added if you like. 

Lame Cutlets in Aspic.* —Take six- 
teen lainb-cutlets, and lard them with 
moderate sized dardons of calf’s udder, 
truffles, and tongue @ l’éearlate; linea 
saucepan with slices of bacon, lay your 
cutlets on them, cover them with bacon, 
moisten with skimmings of consomme, 
add a carrot, two onions stuck with 
cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; 
braise them, and when done, put them 


| between two dishes, and let them cool ; 














LAM 


lardons may be seen; have ready an as- 
pic mould, in which is some of the jelly, 
set ; lay the cutlets, anda piece of tongue 
a Vécarlate alternately on it, en couronne, 
put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it 
carefully, not to displace the cutlets; 
when you find the jelly is set, fill the 
mould; set it on ice; turn the aspic 
out only the minute before it goes to 
table, pour into the well or hollow part 
_ a cold élanquette of lamb, with some cold 
truffles sliced. 

Lams Cutlets en Chemises.*—Having 
cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover 
them with a farce composed of fat livers, 
breasts of fowl or game, streaked bacon, 
all chopped very small, and mixed with 
the crumb of bread soaked in cream; 
season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 
Take some thin slices of bacon; spread 
the farce on them, lay a cutlet on each 
slice, roll it up, and tie it; bread these 
carefully, and roast them before a mode- 
ies fire, ‘basting them with their own 
e at. 

Lames’s Cutiets d la Constance.*—Cut 
and trim eighteen cutlets, season them 
with pepper only, put them into a tossing 
pan, with a piece of glaze about the size 
of an egg, a ladleful of espagnole, two 
dadlesful of consommé ; half an hour be- 
fore they are sent to table, set the cutlets 
over a brisk fire, move them about to 

revent their sticking; when the liquor 
as reduced to a jelly, take out the cutlets, 
and lay them on a dish en cowronne, tak- 
ing care they are covered with the jelly. 
Make a ragoiat ‘of livers, cocks’-combs, 
and kidneys, put them/into some Jécha- 
meile, with some mushrooms; fry the 
whole lightly, and pour them into the 
centre of the ¢ouronne of cutlets, and 
serve instantly. : 

Lames Cutlets Fricasseed.—Take a leg 
of lamb, and cut it into thin cutlets, 
across the grain, and put them into a 
stewpan. Makea sufficient quantity of 
good stock with the bones, shank, &c. to 
cover the cutlets, put it into the stew- 
pan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet 
herbs, an onion, some clove and mace 
tied in a muslin bag, and let them stew 
gently for ten minutes. Take out the 
eutlets, skim off the fat, and take out 
the sweet herbs and mace. Thicken it 
with butter rolled in flour, season it with 
salt, and a little cayenne pepper ; adda 
few mushrooms, truffles, and morels; 
ecome forcemeat balls, the yolks ef three 
eggs, beat up in half a pint of cream, and 
some grated nutmeg; keep stirring the 
same way till it is thick and smooth, and 
then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss 


( 301 ) 
then trim them so that the whole of the | 








LAM 

up, take them out with a fork, and lay 
them ona dish. Pour the sauce over 
them ; garnish with beet-root and lemon. 

Lame’s Ears Stuffed.*—Take a dozen 
lamb’s ears, soak, and scald them; when 
cold, dry, singe, and cook them in a 
blane for an hour anda kalf, drain and 
fill them with a farce cuite, put the ears 
into melted butter, then roll them in 
bread-crumbs; break four eggs into the 
butter, with saJt and pepper, beat all up 
together, dip the ears into this, then roll 
them again in bread-crumbs, and fry - 
them of a nice colour; take care your 
pan isnot toohot. Drain the ears well, 
and serve them on fried parsley. 

Lamp’s Ears with Sorrel.—Take about 
a dozen of lamb’s ears, (this quantity will 
make a small dish), and braise them till 
tender. Take a large handful of sorrel, 
chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful 
of stock, with a small bitof butter. Pour 
in a small ladle of cullis, some nutmeg 
grated, and a little pepper and salt, stew 
it aminute, twist up the ears nicely, and 
serve. 

Lames, Epigramme of.*—Take the fore- 
quarter of a lamb, take off the shoulder, 
and cut the neck sothat the cutlets are 
not injured; dress it (the neck) in the 
same manner as shoulder of lamb with 
cucumbers (see that article), and when 
done, press it between two dishes tomake 
it smooth; let it cool, and then cut it 
into pieces rather larger than the cutiets; 
make them all of the same size and shape 
(oval), rub them all over with a’sauce’ 
a@ Patelet, dip them in melted butter 5 
bread, and lay them on a dish}; cut, and 
trim the cutlets, season them with salt 
and pepper, and put them into a pan 
with melted butter over them: take the 
shoulder (which has been roasted) cut off 
all the meat, mince, and make it into a 
blanquette; keep it hot in the dan mare. 
Just before dinner time, broil the pieces 
of the neck, fry and glaze the cutlets, lay 
them alternatély on a dish en courenne, 
in the centreof which pour the blanquetée, 
and serve the whole immediately. 

- Lamp’s' Feet en Cartouches.*—Prepare 
some sweet herbs en papzllotes, and hav- 
ing cooked the feet in a blanc, put them 
to the herbs whilst they are hot, give 
them two or three boils; squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over them, and leave 
them to cool. Cut some pieces of paper, 
each large enough to hold one of the 
feet; rub’ oil over the inside, lay the 
feet on the pieces of oiled paper, with the 
herbs put round and in the hollow parts, 
wrap each in athin slice of bacon, over 
which fold the paper so as to enclose 
them |] yyaniel broil them thus over 


LAM 


a-slow, but clear fire for half an hour. 
Serve them either dry or with clear 
gravy. seqhar Contes 5 veel 4 

Lamp’s Feet en Gratin.*—Take a 
dozen of lamb’s feet, and set them to 
stew d la braise, with eighteen or twenty 
small onions; whilst they are stewing, 
makea gratin, with some bread-crumbs, 
a little scraped cheese, a bit of butter, 


and the yolks of three eggs; mix the | to Dr 
and pluck tender, taking care not to do 


whole together, and spread it over the 
bottom of your dish, setting it upona 


stove, or ona chafing dish over a slow | 
fire, till it adheres to the bottom: then | 


ut the lamb’s feet, and the small onions 
intermixed, upon the gratin; let_ the 
whole simmer a little over the fire; drain 
off the fat, and serve a good sauce over. 

Lamp’s Feet en Marinade.*—The feet 


being blanched as usual, soak them in a 


marinade, or (in case you have none) in 
alfa glass of vinegar, with salt and pep- 
per. After they have lain a sufficient 


time, drain, dip them in a batter, and 


fry them of a nice colour ; then lay them 


ona cloth to drain. Serve with fried } 
een | and stir it together; then put into the 
Lamp’s Feet Stuffed.*—Prepare your 


' -parsley over them. 


feet in the usual manner, but before you 
blanch them, fill them with a fowl gue- 
nelle, with the addition ofa little grated 


nutmeg, and sweet herbs shred small, 


sew this farce in, and then put the feet 
into boiling water for five minutes; let 
them cool, dry and singe them. Makea 
thick d/ane, put the feet in it, and sim- 
*mer them for about two hours, then 
drain, trim, and serve them with a green 
‘sauce Hollandoise. 

‘Lamp’s Kry.—Fry it of a nice colour, 
and serve with a good deal of dried or 
fried parsley over it. 

Lams (Grass) Steaks.—Cut a loin of 
lamb into steaks, season them with pep- 
per and salt, and fry them;-when done, 
put them intoa dish, pour out the butter. 

Shake a little flour into the pan, put in 
a little beef stock, a little catsup and 
walnut pickle. Boil this up, stirring it 
- allthe time. Putin the steaks, andgive 
“them a shake round; serve them to 
table, garnished with crisped parsley. 
Lames Hashed & l Angluise.*—Put a 
slice of butter intoa stewpan, with a few 
mushrooms cut in pieces, and a bunch 
of herbs; shake them over the fire, 
_ with a little flour, moistening with stock, 
‘then let the mushrooms stew till the 
sauce is nearly consumed; next put in 
~ some small slices of cold roast lamb, 
with the yolks of three eggs beat up in 
milk, Thicken the whole over the fire, 
taking care that it does not boil; season 
. to your taste, and, before serving, adda 
sprinkling of vinegar. ‘ 


( 302 ) 





LAM ee 
_‘Lamp’s Head*—Bone a head as far as 


the eye, take out Pioneers) w, Soak 
and then scald it: when cold, dry an 
singe it; tie it up in slices of bacon,:an: 
cook it in a dlane.. In about two hours 
take it out, drain, and untieit. Serveit 






quite plain, or with a ragofit made with 


the liver, sweetbread, feet, mushrooms, 
alldoneina blanc. cs 
Lams’s Head, to Dress.—Boil a, head 


the liver too much; take out the head, 
and cut it in all directions with a knife. 
Then grate some nutmeg over it, and lay 
it on a dish, before a good fire. Take 
some bread crumbs and some sweet 
herbs rubbed, a little lemon-peel, finely 
chopped, and a very small quantity of 
pepper and salt. Strew these over the 
head, and baste it with a little butter; 
then throwon a little flour, and just as it 
is done, baste and dredge it.. Take half 
the liver, the lights, the heart and 
tongue, and chop them very small, with 
six or eight spoonsful of gravy or water. 
First shake some flour over the meat, 


gravy or water, a large piece of butter 
rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, 
and the gravy that runs from the head 
into the dish. Simmer them all together 
a few minutes, and add half a spoonful of 
vinegar. Put itinto your dish, and place 
the head in the middle ofthe mincemeat. 
Have ready the other halfof the liver cut 
thin, with some slices of broiled bacon, 
and lay them round the head. Garnish 
with lemon. ° rah 

Lams’s Head, Condé Fashion.— Stew 
it in a white braise, and serve it with a 
sauce made of verjuice, the yolks of 
three eggs, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, 
chopped parsley, scalded, and a little 
nutmeg. wi Wag 

Lamp’s Head Minced.—Split the head 
in half, and. blanch it with the liver, 
lights, and-heart; then chop the heart, 
&c. and add to them a little parsley, 
chopped very fine, a small quantity of 
shredded Jemon-peel, and some cullis; 
stew it gently till done, and season it, 
Wash the head over, and bake it gently 
till very tender. Whenit is to be served 
up, colour it with a salamander. Clean 
the brains in warm water, wipe them 
dry, dip them in yolks of egg and bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. 
Put the mince under the head, and t 
fried brains round it, with rashers of 
bacon. } a 

Lams’s Head Stewed.—Take out the 
brains, and make a farce of them; boil 
it, and when cold cut it into pieces; then 
mince some lamb and beef suet together 
with the brains; add some grated bread, 











LAM 


season with salt, st aad and sweet herbs 
minced small, add four or five raw eggs. 
Fill the lamb’s head with these ; then put 
it in a stewpan, and let it stew with some 
good stock ; make the remainder of the 
mincemeat into balls, and serve with the 
stewed head. 

Lamp’s Head Stuffed.*—Soak the head 
well in boiling water, and then put it on 
the fire till half done; take out all the 
bones, and the brains, make a farce with 
streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, 
brains, and morels, all minced very 
small, and united with veal; put this 
farce into the head, bread it all over. 
and put it into a mild oven; when it is of 
a nice colour, take it out, and serve it 
quite hot, with veal gravy. 

Lams (House) Hind Quarter of, to 
Force.—Cut off the shank, and with the 
knife, raise the thick part of the meat 
from the bone; make a forcemeat with 
some suet, a few scalded oysters cut 
small, some grated bread, a little pound- 
ed mace, pepper, and salt, mixed up with 
the yolks of two eggs; put this force- 
meat under the part where the meat has 
been raised up, and under the kidney; 
let it be half roasted, then put it intoa 
stewpan, with a quart of mutton gravy ; 
cover it, and let it stew very gently ; 
when it is sufficiently done, take it up 
and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and 
strain off the gravy ; add to it a glass of 
Madeira, one spoonful of walnut catsup, 
half alemon, a little cayenne, half a pint 
of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter 
rolled in flour, and serve it over the 
lamb. : 

Lams (House) Steaks Brown.— Dip 
them into egg, then season them with 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, 
and chopped parsley; fry them quick. 
Thicken some good gravy, with butter 
and flour; add a little red wine, some 
catsup, and some oysters; boil it up, 
and then put in the steaks warm}; Jet 
them heat up, and serve. You may add, 
if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat 
balls, and hard eggs. 

Lams (House) Steaks White. — Let 
them stew in milk and water till they 
are quite tender, with a small bunch of 
sweet herbs, a bit of lemon-peel, a little 
salt, some white pepper, and some mace 3 
have ready some veal gravy, some mush- 
room-powder, salt, a little cream mixed 
up with a small quantity of flour; shake 
the steaks round in this sauce, and just 
before they are taken up, put in a few 
pickled mushrooms. 

Lams, Leg of, Botled.—It should be 
boiled in a cloth, that it may look as 
white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, 
dip them in egg, strew them over with 


( 303 ) 


LAM 


| bread-crumbs, and fry them anicebrown, 


serve them round the dish, and garnish 
with dried or fried parsley ; serve with 
spinach to eat with it. 

Lame (Leg of) to Force.—Take a leg 
of lamb, and with a sharp knife cut out 
all the meat, but leave the skin whole, 
and the fat uponit. Make the meat you 
cut out into the following forcemeat :— 
To two pounds of meat, put two pounds of 
beef suet, finely chopped; take away ail 
the skin and suet from the meat, and mix 
it with four spoonsful of grated bread, 
eight or ten cloves, five or six large blades 
of mace, dried and finely beaten, half a 
large nutmeg grated, a little pepper and 
salt, some lemon-peel cut fine, a very 
little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs; 
mix all these together, and put it into 
the skin; makeit as near as you can into 
the same shape it was before; sew it up, 
roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut 
the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them. 
Lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks 
cnt from the loin, round it, with stewed 
caulifiowers all round, upon the steaks. 
Pour a pint of good gravy into the dish, 
and then serve. 

Lams (Leg of) en Sauctssons.— Bone 
a leg of lamb, and take out above half 
the meat; simmer itin butter a minute 
or two; then mince it with calf’s udder, 
grated bacon, bread, soaked in cream, 
parsley, scallions, truffles, season it with 
salt and spices; put this into the re- 
mainder of the leg, draw the skin over, 
roll it up into the form of a sausage} 
wrap it in a cloth, tie it tight, and boil it 
in stock, with half a pint of white wine, 
a bunch of sweet herbs,a few carrots and 
onions sliced. When done, serve it with 
any sauce you please. 

Lams (Leg of ) Stewed with Pease.— 
Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it in 
some stock or beef braise. When nicely 
done, take it out, put itin a slow oven, and 
glaze it three or four times; then have 
some good young pease, well stewed, with 
some good béchamelle sauce; pour them 
on the dish, and lay the leg on the top, 
and cut the loin into cutlets, and do them 
on the fire with some butter and some 
strong gravy; when nearly done, shake 
them well in their glaze, dish round the 
lamb over the pease, and serve them hot 
to table. . 

Lamp’s Livers.* — Have two. lambs’ 
plucks, cut the lights into dice, and the 
liver into thin slices; fry them lightly 
over a small fire in butter; they should 
be scarcely more than browned; drain 
away half the butter; add a little parsley 
and a few mushrooms, shred small; sea- 
‘son them with salt, pepper, and Jemon- 
juice ene them very hot. 





a 





LAM 


Lame (Loin of) a la Perigord.—Neatly 
trim a loin of lamb; warm it over the 
fire in a stewpan, with a little oil, mixed 
with some green onions and mushrooms 
chopped, salt, and pepper; then change 
the lamb into another stewpan, well 
lined with slices of veal, seasoned, and 
seven or eight truffles sliced, covered 
with thin rashers of bacon, and half a 
lemon, cut in pieces; let the whole stew 
over a slow fire, moistening with stock; 
and when done, skim the fat from the 
sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the 
loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour 
the sauce over. 

Lame (Pascaline of ).* —Scald four 
lambs’ heads, bone the jaws, and cut off 
the ends of the noses. Scald also the 
feet, singe them, and then cook them all 
together in a db/anc; when done, drain 
them, lay the heads in a dish; fry your 
feet lightly in a little butter, with the 
yolks of four eggs, 2 little parsley, and 
afew mushrooms. Have ready a lamb’s 
pack dressed as directed, {see Lamb’s 
Livers) ; and having laid the feet, with 
their sauce, in the dish with the heads, 
place the rest round them, and serve 
them. r ‘ 

Lams Pasty.—Bone the lamb, cut it 
into four pieces; lay beef suet at the 
bottom of the pasty; season the lamb 
with pepper, salt, thyme chopped, 
nutmeg, cloves, and mace; lay it upon 


the suet, making a high border about it; | 


then turn over your sheet of paste, close 
it up, and bake it; when it is baked, put 
in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, 
and some good gravy. 4 

Lams Pie, the German Way.—Cuta 
quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard 
them with small lardons of bacon, sea- 


.soned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, 


and a bay-leaf; add fat bacon pounded, 
small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; 
put these into the pie, and let it bake for 
three hours; when baked, cut it open, 
skim off all the fat, pour in a ragoit of 
oysters, and serve hot. 

_ Lams Pie (a@ Savoury one).—Cut the 
dJamb into pieces, and season it with pep- 
‘per, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, 


finely beaten, Make a good puff-paste 


crust, put the meat into it, with a few 


lamb’s stones and sweetbreads, seasoned 
the same asthe meat. Then put insome 


oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of 
hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, 


about two inches long, first boiled green. | 


Put butter all over the pie, put on the 
lid, and let it bake for an hour and a 
half in a quick oven. In the mean time, 
take a pint of gravy, the oyster liquor, 
a gill of red wine, and a little grated 
nutmeg. Mix all together with the 


( 304 ) 


LAM 

yolks of two or three eggs, finely beaten, 
and keep stirring it the same way all the 
time. When it boils, pour it into the 
pic, put on the lid again, and serve it to 
Lams Pre (Sweet).—Cut your lamb 
into pieces, and seascn with pepper, salt. 
cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all well 
beaten: make a good puff-paste crust, 
line a dish with it, then lay in your 
meat; strew on, it some stoned raisins 
and currants, nicely washed, and some 
sugar; then lay on some forcemeat balls 
made sweet, and, in the summer, some 
artichoke bottoms boiled, and in the 
winter scalded grapes; add boiled Spa- 
nish potatoes, cut in pieces, candied 
citron, candied orange and lemon-pee!}, 
a few blades of mace; put butter on the 
top, close your pie, and bake it. Have 
ready against it comes out of the oven, a 
caudle made thus; take a pint of white 
wine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs ; 
stir it well together over the fire one 
way, till it is thick; then take it off, stir - 
in a sufficient quantity of sugar, to 
sweeten it, and squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon ; pour it hot into the pie; close it 
up again. . Send it hot to table. 

Lams (Quarter of) en Crepine.—Cat 
three onions into dice, and fry them in 
lard; when nearly done, add a few sha- 
lots and parsley, shred small, basil, salt, 
spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, 
and half a pint of lamb’s blood; simmer 
these over the fire till pretty thick: have 
ready a quarter of lamb, boned, taking 
care not to injure the skin; put the above 
Jurce in the place of the bone, roll it up 
in acaul, and roast it, basting with but- 
ter and bread crumbs ; passa salamander 
over, to colour it; serve it with a duck 
sauce. 

Lams (Quarter of) with Herbs.—Roll 
a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a mo- 
ment with a few bread crumbs, chopped 
parsley, shalots, green thyme, salt, and 
pepper, a glass of white wine, and stock 
in proportion ; the lamb being roasted, 
take up the shoulder, and pour this sauce 
between, in the same manner as you 
generally do Seville orange, and pepper 
and salt. 

Lame (Quarter of ) Roasted and Lard- 
ed.—Take a fore quarter of Jamb, lard 
the upper side of the joint with lean 
bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick 
with bread crumbs; then cover with 
paper to prevent the meat from being 
burnt, and roast it. When nearly done, 
take it from the fire, and cover he part 
that has not been larded, a second time, 
with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, 
and parsley chet very fine; then put 
the lamb again before a bright fire to 








LAM 


brown it. Serve with a little vinegar 
poured overit. . 

Lame ( Ragolt of ).—Cut the knuckle 
bone off a fore quarter of lamb, lard it 
with little thin pieces of bacon; flour it, 
and then put it into a stewpan, with a 
quart of stock or good gravy, a bundle of 
herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, 
and a little whole pepper. Cover it close, 
and let it stew pretty fast for half an 
hour. Pour off all the liquor, strain it; 
keep the lamb hot in the pot till the 
sauce is ready. Take half a pint of 
oysters, flour them, fry them brown, 
drain off clear all the fat that they were 
fried in, and skim off all the fat from the 
gravy. Then pour it to the oysters, put 
in ananchovy, and twospoonsful of either 
red or white wine. Boil all together till 
it is reduced to just sufficient for sauce ; 
add some fresh mushrooms, and some 
pickled, and the juice of half a lemon, or 
a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in 
the dish, pour the sauce over it, and 
garnish with lemon. 

Lamps, to Roast or Botl.—A quarter of 
an hour is generally allowed to each 
pound of meat; a leg of lamb of five 
pounds will therefore take an hour and a 

uarter to roast or boil, the other joints in 
the same proportion; serve either with sa- 
lad, pickles, brocoli, cauliflowers, French 
beans, pease, potatoes, or cucumbers, 
raw or stewed. 

Lams Sauce.—Roll a piece of butter 
in bread crumbs, shred parsley and sha- 
lots, and boil it in a little stock and 
white wine, (equal quantities), a few 
minutes are sufficient ; squeeze in a little 
lemon or orange juice. 

Lams (Shoulders of ) and Cucumbers.* 
—Bone the shoulders to the knuckle, 
lard the inner part with bacon rolled in 
pepper, salt, and spices; tie them up in 
rather a long form, and braise them the 
same as @ la Polonnoise; drain them 
when done, untie and glaze them; pre- 
pare some cucumbers a la créme, on 
which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, 
tomata sauce, or any other sauce you 
Lek ies is equally good with the 

amb. 

LAmB (Shoulders of) a la Dauphine.— 
Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle. 
Make a farce with truffles or mush- 
rooms, fat livers, parsley, shalots, (all 
chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, 
galt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll 
this into the shoulder, and braise it with 
a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass 
of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
pepper and salt. Serve it on stewed 
spinach. 

Lams (Slices of ) Fried.—Cut some 
cold iamb into slices, season and fry 


( 305 ) 


LAM 


them; when done, put them in a dish, 
and pour over them melted butter ; then 
put a little flour into a saucepan, with 
some beef stock, and a little walnut 
pickle; let this boil, and keep stirring. 
Serve the slices of lamb in this sauce, and 
garnish with fried parsley. __ ; 

Lams Steaks Fried.—Fry them of the 
nicest brown ; when served, throw over 
them a good quantity of crumbs of bread 
fried, and crisped parsley. Or you may 
season them and broil them in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, 
or without, according to taste. 

Lamp’s Stones, Fricassee of (Brown).— 
Skin them, dip them in yolk of egg or 
flour, fry them; thicken some gravy 
with flour, mushroom powder, salt, grat- 
ed nutmeg, white pepper, grated lemon- 
peel; boil this up, put in the lamb’s 
stones, heat them through; add force- 
meat balls fried, and pickled mushrooms, 
or lemon-juice. 

Lamp’s Stones, Fricassee of, (White). 
—Skin them, and stew them in some 
veal gravy; when they are nearly done, 
add to them a little cream, some stewed 
forcemeat balls, morels, and a bit of 
butter rolled in flour; just before they 
are taken up, add a few pickled mush- 
rooms, 

Lamp’s Stones and Siweetbreads Fri- 
casseed.— Have ready some lamb’s stones 
blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Then 
take two or three sweetbreads, flour 
them, and if very thick, cut them in 
two. Fry all together with a few oys- 
ters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the 
butter off, and add a pint of good gravy, 
some asparagus tops, about an inch long, 
a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, a couple of 
Shalots shred fine, and a glass of white 
wine. Simmer for ten minutes; then 
put a little of the gravy to the yolks of 
three eggs well beaten, and by degrees 
mix the whole. Turn the gravy back 
into the pan, and stir it till of a good 
thickness, without boiling. Garnish with 
lemon. 

Lams Sweetbreads. * — These parts 
of lamb are generally dressed the same 
as veal sweetbreads: the following, how- 
ever, is rather belonging to those of 
lamb: butter a saucepan, put in the 
sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of jelly ; 
cover them with a buttered paper ; put 
fire above and below; stew them thus 
for halfan hour, then serve them with a 
purée of fowls, or endive, or any other 
sauce you think proper. : 

Lams’s Sweetbreads.— Blanch your — 
Sweetbreads, and put them a little time 
into cold water. Then put them into a 
stewpan, with a ladleful of stock, some 
Pepper, ne a small bunch of young 








LAM 
onions, and a blade of mace. Stir in a 
bit.of butter, with some flour, and stew 
half an hour. Have ready two or three 
eggs beaten in cream, with a little minc- 
ed parsley and grated nutmeg. Put in 
some boiled asparagus tops, and add 
them to the other things. It must not. 
boil after the cream is putin; but make 
it hot, and stir it well all the time. Be 
very careful that it does not curdle. Add 
some lemon or orange-juice, then serve. 
You may if you choose, add young pease 
or French beans, boiled of a beautiful 
colour. 
_ Lams Sweetbreads (Hot Pie of).*— 
Take eight lamb sweetbreads, soak out 
all the blood, and cut them into small 
thin pieces ; trim them all to the same 
size and shape. Take a quarter of a pound 
of butter, the same of grated bacon, a 
dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mush- 
rooms, four of trufties, and one shalot, 
all minced small, salt, nutmeg and spice ; 
put the sweetbreads into this, (when the 
utter is melted), and simmer them 
twenty minutes over a moderate fire, 
turning them frequently, that both sides 
may he equally done. Make a good 
raised crust, at the bottom and round 
the sides of which put some good farce or 
. godiveau ; lay the sweetbreads cold on 
this; pour the herbs, &c., they were 
cooked in over them, with two bay- 
leaves, and some slices of bacon. Lay 
the top crust on the pie, and having 
ornamented it, dorez, and put it in a 
brisk oven; as soon as the top is of a 
light colour, cut round the edge, and 
cover it with a large piece of paper folded 
four times. An hour and a half will be 
sufficient to bake it, then take off the 
lid, the bay-ieaves and bacon; drain 
away the fat, and pour in some espagnole 
and truffles. 

Lamp’s Taz/s.—Braise or boil the tails, 
and make a light batter of flour, one egg, 
a little salt, white wine, and a little oil. 
Fry them of a nice brown colour, and 
serve them, garnished with fried parsley. 
You may serve them with what sauce 
you think proper. 

_Lame’s Tendons with Asparagus.*— 
Take two breasts of Jamb, braise them, 
and when done, lay them between two 


dishes, with a weight on the top; assoon. 
~- as they are cold, cut them in pieces, leav- 


-. ing on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; 
_ put them into a tossing-pan, with a piece 
of glaze and a spoonful of consommé ; 
simmer them till they are completely 
covered with the glaze. Have ready a 
bundle of asparagus, choose the most ten- 
der heads; boil them in the usual way, 
in salt and water, for about ten minutes ; 
skim, and when done, drain them ona 


Pe } 


LAM 


sieve; then fry them lightly in a little 
butter, allemande, and a small quantity 
of sugar; dish the tendons en couronne, 
with the asparagus heads in the centre 3 
glaze and serve them. — et 

Lams Throats (Coguilles of ).*—Soak 
some lamb’s throat sweetbreads, the 
same as those of a calf; put them into 
a stewpan, with a little butter and lemon- 
juice; blanch, and Jet them stand ; when 
cold, cut them in thin slices as for d/an- 
quettes,add some mushrooms and truffles, 
also sliced. Boil a piece of glaze, about 
the size of a walnut, with a little adle- 
mande and a spoontul of consommé ; mix 
the whole together, add a small quantity 
of butter, and some lemon-juice; put 
this preparation into scollop shells, strew 
bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan 
cheese; put a small piece of butter on 
each, and brown them in a Dutch oven. 
Serve them hot. 

Lamp’s Tongues*—Are {dressed in the 
same manner as sheep’s tongues: they are 
considered as a greater delicacy. 

LamBa fa Villeroy.*—Take two breasts 
of lamb, braise them, and when done 
lay them between two dishes to keep 
them flat whilst cooling. As soon as 
they are quite cold, cut each breast into 
five pieces; take off all the skin and 
trim them, soak them in some allemande; 
let them get quite cold again, and then 
bread them; dip them in an omelet; 
bread them a second time, and fry them 
ofa nice colour. Place them on your 
dish, en cowronne, with a clear aspic. 

LAMPREYS. — Lampreys resemble 
eels; there are river and sea lampreys ; 
they must be sealed in the same manner 
as tench, and cut into pieces; then 
floured and fried. They may also be 
broiled and served with capers; or if 
you serve them as a side-dish, mix some 
oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard, 
together over the fire; and serve it as 
sauce. for the lampreys. Lampreys may 
also be stewed like carp, and served, en 
matelotte, as a side-dish. . : 

Lamprey.*—The lamprey is a species 
of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less 
brown than that fish; they are seldom to 
be had in London, and are not very 
plenty in any part of England. They 
should be chosen fat, and are generally 
cooked in the same manner as eels. 

LaMPREYS, Broiled.—Wash them very 
clean in warm water; cut them into 
pieces; melt some butter, and roll them 
in it; make a seasoning with bread- 
crumbs grated, some pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, and sweet herbs chopped very fine ; 
after the fish has been well rubbed in 
the butter, dip it into the seasoning, 
and broil it over a clear, gentle fire. 











LAM 


Sauce:—take some colouring for sauce, 
add an onion cut small, parsley, mush- 
rooms, capers, an anchovy, minced fine, 
some pepper and salt; add a little fish- 
broth, and thicken it with some fish 
cullis; boil it, and strain it over the fish. 
_ Lamprey, Brotled.—Cut a lamprey 
into three pieces, and put it into a pan 
with white or red wine, a little butter, 
whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, car- 
rots, parsnips, thyme, bay-leaf, and 
cloves. Before the fish is quite done, 
drain and dip it in butter; cover it with 
bread-crumbs, and broil it slowly, baste 
it with oil or butter. Serve it dry. 

Lampreys, to Fry.—Cut off the heads, 
and save the blood, that runs from them ; 
then wash them well in warm water, dry 
them in acloth, fry them in a little fresh 
butter till half done; pour otf the fat, 
and put ina little white wine; shake the 
pan round, put in a little whole pepper, 
nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, and a bay- 
leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, and the blood; shake the 
pan round frequently, and cover them 
close. When they are done, take them 
out; strain off the sauce ; squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. 

Lamprey @ l’ltalienne. — Put two 
onions, chopped very small, into a stew- 
pan, with apiece of butter, a spoonful 
or two of oil, a bunch of sweet herbs, two 
cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish 
cut in pieces, the blood, and a pint of 
red wine; set these on a brisk fire, and 
boil till the liquor is reduced ; take out 
the herbs, and then keep it on till done. 
Squeeze orange or lemon juice over, and 
serve. 

Lamprey, Matelote of.*—Take two 
Jampreys, put them into boiling water ; 
take out the entrails, and cut the fish 
into pieces. Make a rouwa, into which 
put the lampreys (except the heads and 
tails); give them a few turns; then add 
white wine, small onions, (previously 
tossed up in alittle butter), some mush- 
rooms, a bunch of sweet herbs seasoned, 
salt and pepper; stew these, skimming 
frequently. When ready for table, put 
the blood of the lampreys tothe matelote, 
and serve it; garnish with fried bread 
and cray-fish. 

Lampreys fo Pot.—Scald and scrape 
them, take out the insides, especially 
the black string; season with pepper, 
galt, and mace: put themintoa pan, and 
bake them in a slow oven; when they 
are done, take them out of the gravy, 
put them in aclean pan, and cover them 
with clarified butter. 

Lamprey au Restaurant.*—Cut your 
fish in pieces, put it into. a stewpan with 


some melted butter truffles and morels, 


( 307 ) 


LAR 


cut in thin slices; when they are nearly 
done, addred wine, salt, pepper, a bit of 
sugar about the size of an almond, and 
some fried bread; finish the dressitig, 
and serve them in their gravy. | 
Lampreys, Stewed.—Clean the fish 
very carefully, then remove the carti- 
lage which runs down the back, and sea- 
s0n with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, 
pepper, and allspice; put it into a small 
stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, 
port, and an equal quantity of Madeira 
or sherry ; cover it close, and let it stew 
till tender; then take out the lamprey 
and keep hot; while you boil up the 
liquor with two or three anchovies chop- 
ped, and some flour and butter, strain 
the gravy through a sieve; add lemon- 
juice and some made mustard. Serve 
with sippets of bread and horse-radish. 
LAPWINGS.—They should be roasted 
and servedin the same manner as wild- 


uck, 

LARD (Hog’s).—The lard should be 
carefully melted ina jar, putinto a kettle 
of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders 
that have been particularly well cleaned. 
It is best to have the bladders small, as 
the lard will keep better, for, after the 
air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst 
it is melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. 

This being a very useful article in fry-— 
ing fish, itshould be prepared with great 
care. Mixed with batter, it makes a fine 
crust. 

LARKS.—These delicate little birds 
are in high season in November. When 
they are thoroughily picked, gutted, and 
cleansed, truss them; do them over with 
the yolk of egg, and then roll them in 
bread-crumbs; spit them on a lark spit, 
and fasten that on to a larger spit, ten 
or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time 
to roast them in before a quick fire; 
whilst they are roasting, baste them with 
fresh butter, and sprinkle them with 
bread-crumbs till they are well covered 
with them. Fry some grated bread in 
butter, set it to drain before the fire, 
that it may harden. Serve the crumbs 
in the dish under the larks, and garnish 
with slices of lemon. 

Larxs.—Roast them, larded and co- 
vered with bacon ; or you may only cover 
one half with bacon, and lard the other. 
Leave in the trails, and put under them 
roasted bread to receive what falls, For 
a side-dish, they may be served a variety 
of ways. 

_ Larxs en Caisses.—Pick, bone, and 
stuff your larks ; have ready some small 
paper cases, dip them in warm oil, form 
the larks into balls, and put one, with a 


‘little farce underneath, into each case, 


Set them on a baking tin, covered with a 











LAR 


buttered paper, to prevent their drying 
whilst baking. When done, place them 
ina dish, drain off all the fat, squeeze 
lemon-juice, and pour a little espagnole 
overthem. | ha 

Largs en Chipolata.*— Have ready 
some roasted chesnuts, mushrooms, sau- 
sages, and slices of streaked bacon; have 
a little butter in a saucepan, put in the 
bacon, and when they have had a few 
turns, put in the sausages; as scon as 
they are done, put in eight or ten larks; 
when they are pretty firm, take all three 
articles out, pour away half the butter, 
and put in the mushrooms, give them a 
few boils; then stir in a spoonful of flour, 
pour on them a glass of white wine, half 
a glass of water, a little pepper, anda 
very small quantity of salt; give them 
a few boils, and then replace the bacon, 
sausages, and larks, with the chesnuts } 
these must only boil once; then take 
them out, and serve them. 

Largs @ la Génoise.*—Toss up a few 
dry mushrooms in a litile lard, moisten 
them with stock, veal gravy, and a glass 
of champagne; simmer your larks in 
this for an hour, and then let them cool. 
Grate a little Parmesan cheese on a dis 
that will bear the fire ; mix a small quan- 
tity of grated bread with it, and place 
your larks on this layer of cheese; pour 
over them the sauce they were dressed in, 
strew grated cheese and bread on it, and 
set it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an 
hour. 

Largs au Graiin.—Pick and bone a 
dozen anda half of fat larks ; season them 
with salt and pepper, stuff them with a 

Sarce, putsome of the farce in a dish, lay 
the larks on it with fried bread between 
each, lay slices of bacon over the whole, 
and put it into the oven for twenty mi- 
nutes; then drain off the fat, and serve 
with a well-seasoned espagnole. 

Larus 7 Jelly.— Put several into the 
jelly in what manner you think best, 
taking care that they lie separate. You 
may do any small birds you please in this 
manner. 

Larus in a Minute.*—Put some but- 
ter, slices of streaked bacon, and a few 
sausages, into a stewpan; when quite 
hot, put in eight or ten larks ; take hein 
out again assoon as they are firm; pour 
away half the butter, and put into the 
pan a few mushrooms; give them a boil 
up, and then add a little flour, a glass of 
white wine, a little water, very small 
quantities of pepper and salt ; ina few mi- 
nutes put the larks in again; give the 

whole one boil, and thenserve them. 

Lark Pie a la Pithiviers.*—Take five 
or six dozen of larks, pick and singe 


( 308 ) 


LAR 
them; split open the backs, take out 


the intestines and mince them; takea_ 
pound and a half of good farce, and hav-_ 


ing pounded the mince with it, season, 


and stuff the larks with it. Makearaised 
crust, at the bottom of which put a ~ 


layer of the farce ; wrap each larkina 
thin slice of ham, and place them on it, 


with a bit of butter; cover the whole — 


with slices of bacon, and bay-leaves $ 
put on the top-crust, and bake the pie for 
two or three hours, then take it out, and 
let it stand till cold. sieht 

Lars aux Poires.—Pick the larks, and. 
truss themas closely as possible ; cut off 
one leg; season them with pepper and 
salt; make a forcemeat as follows:— 
Take a veal sweetbread, as much suet, 
some mushrooms, and some morels, a 
little lemon-peel, and some sweet herbs 5 
chop them very fine; mix them with the 
yolk of an egg ; wrap every lark insome of 
this forcemeat, and shape it like a pear, 
leaving the leg for the stalk ; wash them 
over with the yolk of an egg, and strew 
them over with bread-crumbs; bake 
them in a moderate oven ofa fine brown, 
and serve them without sauce. 

Lanks @ la Provencale.* —Pick, singe, 
and empty the larks; mince a few truf- 
fles and morels, put them intoa stewpap 
with a glass of consommé, half a glass of 
whi te wine, salt, and pepper ; boil these 
for about_a quarter of an hour, then put 
in your larks, and simmer them slowly 
for five and forty minutes; putin a little 
butter worked with flour, and stir it fre- 
quently to thicken it. 

Larks (Ragodt of).—Fry your larks 
with an onion stuck with cloves, and a 
few truffles and mushrooms; pour o 
the fat, and shake over them a little 
flour. Put to themsome good gravy, and 
stew them till they are sufficiently done, 
If there is any fat skim it off; put to it 
some lemon-juice, and pepper and salt 
to your taste. Basi: et 

Larks, Ragodt of.—Pick, singe, and 
bone the larks ; put them into a stewpan 
with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, 
a bunch of parsley, and scallions, aslice 
of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut in 
pieces; simmer them a minute or two, 
and then add a little stock, a glass of 
wine, pepper, and salt; when the larks 
are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, 
take out the ham, parsley, and scallions. 
benye them with any stewed greens ora 
cullis. 

Larks Raised Pie, hot.—Make a raised 
crust in the usual way, lay some farce at 
the bottom of it, place some larks (boned) 
on it, fill up the pie with the same, cover 
and bake it When done, take off the 


oh 








aE ee ee ee ee , i a 
I a ER cone Le a ae” ae 





LEA 


top crust, draw away what fat there may 

» pour a rich ragoiit into it, season it 
very highly, and serve it open. 

Lars Roasted & la Frangoise.*—Pick 
and singe the larks, but do not empty 
them; wrap them in slices of bacon, 
fasten them on a spit, and roast them; 
lay a toast in the dripping-pan under 
them; serve the larks on this toast when 
done. 

Larxs, Salmi of.*—Having properly 
prepared your larks, cut them into quar- 
ters ; take the livers and gizzards, bruise 
them, and then boil them In a little stock 
red wine, with shalots minced, salt, and 
pepper; in about a quarter of an hour 
put your birdsinto this, and simmer them 
an hour; serve the salmi with fried 
bread round. 

LAVENDER Vinegar.*—Take half a 

pound of lavender flowers, dry them 
quickly, put them into a jug with agal- 
lon of the best white wine vinegar; set 
it in the sun for a week, covered close ; 
then draw it off, press the dregs, filter 
it through blotting-paper and bottle it; 
keep them closely corked, 
- LAVER.—This plant grows on the 
rocks near the sea in the west of Eng- 
land, and is sent in pots prepared for 
eating. 

Rub some ofit in a dish, and put it 
over a lamp, with a bit of butter and the 
squeeze of a Seville orange; stir it till 
hot ; it is eaten with roast meat. 

' LAZAGNES.*—The only difference 


between these and nouwzlles is, that the 


lazagnes are cut rather larger. Great 
care must be taken not to dress them too 
much. 

Lazsene Soup, with Cheese.—The la- 
zagne isa paste, resembling macaroni ; 
the only difference consists in its being 
flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of 
being in pipes. 

Wash and boil it instock, like rice, 
with a little salt, drain it ina cullender ; 
lay some of the dazagne at the bottom of 
the soup-dish with some pieces of butter 
on it; strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere 
cheese over them; then put a layer of 
lazagnes, and so on, alternately, till the 
dish be full, taking care, however, that 
the last layer is cheese; colour it witha 
salamander, pour some good stock over, 
and serve it. 

LEAVES, to Green, for ornamenting 
Fruit.—Take small leaves of a pear-tree, 
keep them close stopped in a pan of ver- 
juice and water ; give them a boil insome 
syrup of apricots; put them between two 
pieces of glass to dry; smooth and cut 
them into the shape of apricot-leaves 
| (the leaves should be procured with 
__ §talks); stick them about the apricots 


( 309 ) 


LEM 


or any other preserved fruits but the 
leaves must be cut in the shape of the 
leaf which belongs to the fruit you orna- 


ment. 

LEEKS.—Leeks are most generally 
used for soups, ragofits, and other made 
dishes, they are very rarely brought to 
table ; in which case dress them as fol- 
lows :—Put them into the stock-pot till 
about three parts done; then take them 
out, drain, and soak them in vinegar 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves; 
drain them again, stuff the hearts with 
a furce, dip them in batter, and fry them. 

Lexx (Scotch) Soup.—Put the water 
in which a leg of mutton has been boiled 
intoa stewpan, witha quantity of chopped 
leeks, pepper, and salt; simmer them 
an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a 
little cold water quite smooth, pour it 
into the soup, and let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire, taking great care that 
it does not burn at the bottom. 

Leek Soup.*—Wash and cut some leeks 
in pieces, about an inch in length, give 
them a few turns over the fire in some 
butter; then add broth tothem, and when 
they have simmered in it for about three 
quarters of an hour, soak your bread in 
the usual manner, and pour on it the 
leeks and soup. 

Leeks with Toasts.—Take a dozen very 
fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and 
wash them well ; tie them like asparagus, 
and put them in a stewpan of boiling 
water, with a handful of salt; when well 
done, put them on a sieve to drain; in the 
meantime make two thick toasts, well 
butter them, serve the leeks upon them. 
LEMONADE.—To agallon of spring wa- 
ter add some cinnamon and cloves, penty 
of orange and plenty of lemon-juice, anda 
bit of the peel of each; sweeten well with 
loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites 
of six eggs, and the yolk of one; giveita 
boil, and then let it simmer for ten 
minutes ; then run it through ajelly-bag, 
and let it stand till cold, before it is 
drank. 

LemMonaDE.*—Take four lemons, pare 
the rind as thin as_ possible; squeeze 
them into a quart of water, add half a 
pound of fine sugar, and let it stand two or 
three hours, then pass it through ajelly- 
bag into decanters. 

LEMONADE to be made a day before 
wanted.—Pare two dozen of good sized 
Jemons as thin as possible, put eight of 
the rinds into three quartsof hot, not boil- 
ing water, and cover it over for three or 
four hours; rub some fine sugar on the 
lemons to obtain the essence, and put it 
into a China bowl, into which squeeze the 
juice of the lemons ; add to it one pound 
and half of fine sugar, then put the water 








Gi LEM 


to the above, and three quarts of milk 
made boiling hot; mix it well together, 
and pour through a jelly-bag till perfect- 
ly clear. ; iis. 

LemonaveE that has the flavour and 
appearance of Jelly. —Pare as thin as 
possible six lemons, and a couple of Se- 
ville oranges, and steep them in a quart 
of hot water for four hours; boil one 
pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three 
pints of water, and skim it; add the liquor 
of the six lemons, and of the two oranges, 
to the juice of six China oranges, and 
twelve lemons, stir the whole well, and 
run through a jelly-bag till clear; then 
adda little orange water if you like the 
flavour, and if necessary, add more sugar. 
It will keep well if properly corked. 

LremonaveE and Wine.*—Put the peel 
and juice of two lemons into a pan, and 
pour on them a pint of boiling water, a 
pound of sugar, and. two bottles of good 
Burgundy ; let these stand half an hour, 
then strain it as usual. 

' LEMON Bonbons. * — Take two 
pounds of the best lump sugar, clarify and 
boil it to caramel; but just before it 
reaches that point, grate the rind of a 
lemon and put in it; in the meanwhile 
melt a little butter; skim, and pour it 
off clear; take a spoonful of this butter, 
and rub it with your hand over a copper- 
plate or marble slab, on which pour the 
earamel sugar; then have a sword blade, 
take an end in each hand, and impress 
lines in the sugar about an inch apart; 
then impress similar lines across the 
first, so as to form small cakes; this 
operation should be performed as quickly 
as possible, lest the sugar should coo! be- 
fore the whole is marked; when however 
all is done, pass the blade carefully be- 
tween the sugar and the slab, lay it on 
sheets of white paper, and when perfectly 
cold, separate the bonbons, and wrap 
each in paper; keep them in a dry place. 

Lemon Brandy.—Put the peel of two 
lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it 
stand for four and twenty hours, then 


strain it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in | 


@ quarter of a pint of water; then skim, 
and let it stand till cold, when cold, mix 
it with the brandy. 

_Lemon Butter with Sweetmeats. — 
Blanch and pound very fine an ounce of 
sweet almonds, put them to a quart of 
boiling cream, add the whites of three 
eggs well beaten, a little orange-flower 
water, and sweeten according to taste. 
Then take a lemon, grate the rind into 
some lemon-juice, add it to the cream and 
make it boil; then put it into a hair sieve, 
and when well drained, beat it together, 
and lay it ina high dish, with sweetmeats 
or ratafia cakes all round. 


(310 ) 














LEM 

| Lemon Cakes. — Quarter as” many 
lemons as you think proper, they must 
have good rinds, and boil them in two or 
three waters, till they are tender, and 
have lost their bitterness; then’ skir 


‘them, and put them in a napkin. to fry; 
with a knife take all the skins and seeds 
' out of the pulp, shred the perenne 


‘ put 
them to the pulp, weigh them, and put 
‘rather more than their weight of fine 
sugar into a tossing-pan, with just suffi- 


cient water to dissolve the sugar; boil it 


‘till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and 
then by degrees put in the peel and pulps; 
stir them well before you set them on the 
fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear 
and thick, and then put it into flat-bot- 
tomed glasses; set them in a stove, and 
keep them in a continual and moderate 
heat, and turn them out upon glasses, as 
soon as they are candied. ' 
Lemon Cakes.—Choose the best colour- 
ed lemons, scrape out the blocks, and 
grate off all the peel; put the peel into a 
, strainer; wet some sugar, boil it tocandy 
height; then take it off, and put in the 
grated lemon-peel; set it on the fire 
again, and let it boil up, squeeze in a little 
lemon-juice, and drop them on buttered 
plates or paper. Sipe: sebals 
Lemon Cake.—Take the whites of ten 
eggs, add three spoonsful of rose or 
orange-flower water, and beat them an 
hour with a whisk; then put in a pound 
of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind ofa 
lemon; when well mixed, add the juice 
of haJf a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs, 
beaten smooth; stir in three quarters of 
a pound of flour; then butter a pan, and 
bake it in a moderate oven for an hoar. 
Lemon Cheesecakes.—Boil the peel of 
two large lemons till they are quite ten- 
der, and then pound it well in a mortar, 
with four or five ounces of loaf sugar, the 
yolks of six eggs, halfa pound of fresh 
butter, and a littie curd beaten fine; 
pound and mix altogether, lay a rich puff 
‘paste in some patty-pans, fill them half 
full, and bake them carefully. at 


Lemon Cheesecakes.—Mix four ounces 


‘butter together, and gently melt it; then 
add the yolks of two, and the white of one 
egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, 

and the juice of one lemon and a half, one 

Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds, 

pounded, three spoonsftl of brandy; mix 

the whole well together, and put it to 

paste made with the following ingredi- 
ents: eight ounces of flour, six ounces of 
butter, two-thirds of which must be mixed 
with the flour first; then wet it with six 
spoonsful of water, and roll in the re- 
mainder of the butter. — } 

Lemon Chips, Grillage of.—Pare off 





of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounces of 








LEM 


the rinds of your lemons as thin as possi- 
ble, and put them into double the quan- 
tity of sugar, boiled to /a grande plume ; 
Stir them well, squeeze a little lemon- 
juice over, and then lay them on abaking 


plate, previously rubbed with oil; strew 


powder-sugar over, and dry them in a 
Stove. 
_ Lemons Compéte of.* —Cut them in 
Small pieces, and boil them in water till 
they are tender, then change them into 
cold water; then make a syrup with a 
glass of water, and a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, and put in the fruit ; let it simmer 
gently over a slow fire for half an hour, 
and serve cold. 

Lemon Conserve.*—Grate the rind of 
a lemon on a piece of sugar (about a 
pound), scrape off the surface of the su- 
gar as the lemon adheres to it, until 
you have rasped the whole of the rind ; 
squeeze half the juice on the scraped su- 
gar, and then boil the rest to /a grande 
plume ; take it from the fire when at this 
degree, and let itstand a little; stir in 
the lemon gently, and when it formsa 
sort of glace ‘on the top of the sugar, 
pour the conserve into moulds; being 
careful, however, that itis not too hot. 

Lemon Creum.—Take a pint of thick 
cream, and put to it the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten,a quarter of a pound of 
fine:sugar,and the rind of a lemon, cut 
very thin; boil it up, then stir it till 
almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon into 
a dish or basin, and pour the cream upon 
it, stirring till quite cold. 
_ Lemon Cream ( Clear.)—Take a little 
hartshorn jelly, and put intoit the peel 
of two lemons, taking care that there is 
none of the white; set it over the fire, 
jet it boil; take the whites of six eggs, 
and beat them well; take the juice of 
four lemons, grate in the peel to the 
juice, and let it soak a little while, and 
afterwards pnt the juice and eggs toge- 
ther; put in a sufficient quantity of 
double-refined sugar to sweeten it; letit 
boil very fast near a quarter of an hour, 
then strain it through a jelly-bag, and 
as it runs through put it in again, till it 
is quite clear ; after which, take the peels 


of the lemons boiled init, and cut them — 


into each glass; stir it till it is half cold, 
and then pour it on the peel in the 
glasses. ‘ 

. Lemon Cream (Yellow).—Grate off the 
reel of four lemons, squeeze the juice 
to.it, let.it steep four or five hours, strain 


jt, put to it the whites of eight eggs, and | 


the yolks of two, well beaten and strain- 
ed ;.add theretoa pound of double-refined 


Sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose-water, | 


and a pint of spring-water, stir these 


all together ; set it on a quick fire, but 





( 311 ) 


LEM 


let it not boil; it is donesufficiently when 
it creams. 

Lemon Cream (Ices).*—Take two fine 
large lemons, rub their rind ona piece 
of sugar, and scrape it off, and put on 
paper ; set two quarts of cream on the 
fire to boil; in the meanwhile whisk the 
whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then 
add to it the twelve yolks, and a pound 
of fine sifted sugar ; when well mixed, put 
them a little at a time to the boiling 
cream, with the scraped sugar; boil up 
the whole two or three times, stirring 
constantly, and pour it through a sieve 
into a basin. Whencold, put it into the 
mould and ice it, according to the direc- 
tions. 

Lemon Custard. — Beat the yolks of 
ten eggs, strain them, beat them with a 
pint of cream; sweeten the juice of two 
lemons, boil it with the peel of one; 
strain it; when cold, stir it to the cream 
and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into 
a dish, grate over the rind of a lemon, 
and brown it with a salamander. 

Lemon Drops.—Grate three large le 
mons, witha large piece of double refined 
sugar ; then scrape the sugar into a plate, 
add half a tea-spoonful of flour ; mix well 
together, and beat it into a light paste, 
with the white of anegg. Dropit upon 
white paper, put them on a tin-plate, 
and set them in a moderate oven. 

Lemon Essence. — Rasp your lemons 
all round, very thin, and for every quar- 
ter of a pound of rind, allow one pound 
of sugar ; mix it well witha large spaddle 
till you find it is all of the same colour, 
and that the rind is well mixed; put it 
into a stone jar, and press it down as 
hard as you can; put a bladder over the 
paper you cover with, and tie it over 
quite tight; put it by, and in a month’s 
time it will be fit for use. 

LEMON-FLOWERS, Conserve of.*—Take 
six ounces of lemon-flowers, picked ; dis- 
solve two pounds of sugar, boil it to 
petit cassé; then throw in the flowers, 
Jet them boil up together once, andstir 
them till the sugar bubbles; finish the 
conserve as usual. 

Lemon (Green) Preserved.* — Split 
some small green lemons on one side 
that they may take the sugar inside as 
well as outside; put them into cold 
water, and set them on the fire, and keep 
them from boiling by pouring cold water 
onthem frequently; as soon, however, 
as they rise above it, take them from the 
fire, and throw them into cold water ; 
after they have lain a short time in it, 
put them on the fire, and boil slowly till 
the fruit is quite tender, when they must 
again be put into cold water. Clarify 
some sugar, put the lemtns to it, and 





LEM 


having let it boil up seven or eight 
times, put the whole into a pan till the 
next day; then drain off the syrup, boil 
it up twenty or thirty times, having 
added a little fresh sugar, pour it over 
your lemons, and repeat this process for 
three successive days, increasing the 
boiling point of the sugar each day, so 
that on the last it will be to per/é; when 
the fruit must be boiled with it once, and 
then it may be put into pots. 

If you wish the preserve to be dry, lay 
the fruit on slates, and place them in a 
stove or oven to dry. A 

Lemon Honeycomb.—Take the juice 
of one lemon, and sweeten it according 
to your taste, and put it in the dish in 
which you intend to serve it. Beat up 
the white of an egg, then mix it with a 
pint of rich cream, and a little sugar ; 
whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on 
the lemon-juice. It should be made the 
day before itis wanted. _ ; 

‘Lemon Ice Cream.—Take the juice of 
three or four lemons, and grate the peel 
of one lemon ; add two gills of syrup, and 
one pint of cream} mix it all together, 
pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

Lemon, Jce with Wine.*—Squeeze the 
juice from as many lemons 23 will yield 
half a pound, which filter through blot- 
ting paper. Puta pound and half of fine 
sugar, with a bottle of white wine, and 
half the quantity of water on the fire; 
when it has boiled up three or four 
times, add the juice to it, and having 
boiled that also the same number of 
dimes, put in as much tincture of saffron 
as will tinge it of a fine yellow; strain, 
and finish the ice as usual. 

Lemon Jelly.—Set a pint and a half of 
* “clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it 
' witha little water; when it boils, and 
has. been well skimmed, put in two 
ounces of clarified isinglass, with a little 
lemon-peel cut very thin; let these boil 
till you have squeezed through a sieve, 
into a basin, the juice of six lemons; 
then pass your sugar and isinglass to it, 
oe, and set it in a mould, as any other jelly ; 

: when turned out, garnish it with drie 

alien jellies, . 
_ Lemon Jelly.*—Take five larze lemons, 
: pavrere out the juice from them, and 
add to it the whites of six eggs, well 
beaten, ten ounces of double-réfined su- 
gar, beaten very fine, twenty spoonsful 
__ of spring-water; mix all well together, 
_ Strain it through a jelly-bag; set it over 
4 agentle fire, skim it well, and when it 
is hot (it must not boil) take it off, and 
aid it into glasses, with shreds of lemon 
i peels 
Lemon-suice, Conserve of.*—Squeeze 
the juice of three lemons into a silver 
















( 312 ) 


LEM 
dish, set it on a moderate fire, and let 
it stand till reduced to half; then add 
a pound of sugar boiled to cassé, and 
finish the conserve in the usual way. _ 
Lemon-Juice, to Keep. — Keep the 
lemons for two or three daysin a cool 
place; if too unripe to wm igre ee 
cut the peel off some, and roll them un- 
der your hand, they will then part with 
their juice more readily; others you may 
leave unpared for grating, when the pulp 
has been taken out, and they have been 
dried. Squeeze the juice into a china 
basin; then strain it through some mus- 
lin, taking care that none of the pul 
passes through. Have some half an 
quarter of ounce phials, be careful that 
they are perfectly dry, and fill them with 
the lemon-juice ; fill them so near the 
top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of 
sweet oil into each; cork the _ bottles 
and set them uprightin a cool place. If 
you make use of larger phials, you must 
put in rather more than half a tea-spoon- 
ful of sweet oil. 

When you want lemon-juice, open such 
a sized bottle as you will use in two or 
three days; wind some clean cotton 
round a skewer, and dipping it in, the 
oil will be attracted; and when all is 
removed, the juice will be as good as 
when first bottled. 

Hang the peels up to dryg and keep 
them ina place free from dust. — 

Lemons, to Keep for Puddings.—When 
you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside 
in water, without the pulp; let them re- 
main in the same a fortnight, adding no 
more ; boil them in the same till tender; 
strain it from them, and when they are 
nearly dry, throw them into any jar of 
candy you may have remaining from old 
sweetmeats ; or, if you have none, boil a 
small quantity of syrup, of common loaf- 
sugar and water, and pour over them ; Us 
a week or ten days, boil them gently 
it till they look clear; and that they may 
be covered with it inthe jar, you may 
cut each half of the fruit in two, an 
they will occupy a smaller space. 

Lemon Loaves.—Cut the fruit in halves, 
squeeze them, and preserve the liquor, 
take out the pulp, boil the peels till the 
bitter is extracted ; then lay them in syrup 
for two days; then boil the syrup they 
have laid in, till it is ofa good consistency, 
add the peels, and put them into glasses 
for use; when they are wanted, eee what 
quantityis sufficientfora dish,and filithem 
with some pudding mixture, either mar» 
row, bread. plum, &c. or with a custard, 
and bake them with the greatest care. 

Lemon Marmalade.—Take halfadozen 
lemons, grate off two of the rinds ; then 
cut them all, and pick out the inside from 











LEM 
the skin and seeds; put to it the grated 
lemon, and about halfa pint of pippin- 
jelly; take the same weight of sugar as 
ofthe inside, boil the sugar to a very 
‘strong soufié; then put it to the inside, 
and boil all very quick, till it becomes a 
jelly, which may be ascertained by dip- 
ping in the skimmer, and holding it up 
‘to drain; if it is sufficiently jellied, it 
will break from the skimmer in flakes, 
‘and if not, it will run offin little streams} 
when done, put it into glasses or pots. 

‘= Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze out the 
juice from a large lemon; boil the out- 
side till sufficiently tender to beat to a 
mash, add to it three large apples chop- 
ped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound 
of currants, four ounces of sugar ; put 
“the juice of the lemon, and add candied 
fruit, the same as for other pies. Makea 
short crust, and fill the patty-pans in the 
usual manner. 

Lemon Paste.—Cut off the ends of the 
lemons, and run them through and 
through with a long pin; put them on 
‘the fire in water, and boil them till ten- 
der ; then take them out, lay them in cold 
water a minute, put them into a cloth, 
and press out the water; pound and rub 
them through a sieve, mix them with 
double the quantity of sugar boiled to 
fa grande plume. Set the whole on the 
fire to simmer, Stirring constantly, and 
finish the paste as usual. 

Lemon Pastelle.—Grate the rind of a 
temon without any of the white, infuse 
it in a glass of water, with half an ounce 
of gum-dragon ; when the latter is com- 
pletely dissolved, press it through a 
cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it 
up with sugar to the proper consistence ; 
then form it according to your fancy, and 
dB them in the oven. 

Lemon Pasti/ls.—Take half a pound of 
pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- 
sible ; putit in a plate, take three or four 
Jemons, and squeeze their juice over the 
gugar; mix it well with a spoon, till you 
make it rather a thickish paste, so that 
you can take it upon a knife; then take 
half a sheet of paper, and cover it with 
little round and fiat drops, about the size 
of a sixpence, place them in a stove 
with a slow fire till they are quite dry, 
then take them off from the paper; you 
may use, if you please, some of the peel 
grated, but not chipped; for, as it isa 
melting pastil, some of the bits would re- 
main in the mouth. 

Lemon Peel Candied.* — Take some 
thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yellow 
peel, and throw it into boiling water till 
soft, when it must be put into cold water. 
Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it eu 
petit Uissé, and having drained the lemon- 


( 313 ) 


LEM 


peel, pour on it the syrup (whilst hot) ; 
the next day boil the syrup again, and 
return it to the peel ; the third and fourth 
days proceed in the same manner, add- 
ing a smali quantity of clarified sugar ; 
the last time the syrup is boiled, as soon 
as it rises to per/é, put in the peel, cover 
and boil the whole together once, and 
when cold, drain and dry themin a stove. 

Lemon Peels Candied, or Dried.— 
Take some preserved lemon- peels, wash 
them in warm water, and put them on a 
sieve to drain; boil some syrup on the 
fire till it comes to a blow, and put your 
peels in; as soon as they are covered 
with sugar take them out again, put 
them on wires for all the sugar to dro 
through, then let them stand till cold, 
and put them into boxes. 

Lemon Peel to Candy.—Take some 
nin pac) and clean them well from 
the pulp, and let them lay two days in 
salt and water; then scald and drain 
them dry, then boil them ina thin syrup 
till they look quite clear. After whicl:, 
take them out, and have ready a thick 
syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put 
them into it, and simmer them till the 
sugar-candies about the pan and peels. 
Then lay them separately on a hair sieve 
to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, 
and set them to dry in a slow oven. 

Lemon Peelau Caramel.*—Take some 
very dry preserved lemon-peel, and cut 
it into several small square pieces; put 
these pieces each on the point of little 
sticks for this purpose, and dip them 
into caramel sugar as directed. See ches- 
nuts au caramel. 

Lemon Peel Petits Soufiles.*—Put into 
a saucepan two ounces of potatoe flour, 
which mix with alittle milk, and then 
add to it three glasses of cream, two 
ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; 
set these over a moderate stove, stirring 
constantly ; in about eight minutes pour 
it into another saucepan, and mix with 
it a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, 
(having previously grated on it the rinds 
of two lemons), and two eggs; stir them 
together a minute, and then add the yolks 
of eggs; take two dozen flat custard 
moulds, line them with puff paste, pour 
the preparation into them, and bake 
them in a, moderate oven ; when done 
glaze them with fine sugar, and serve 
them hot. 

Lemon Peel Ratafia of —Grate the yel- 
low rind only of seven or eight Jemons ; 
infuse it in three quarts of the best 
brandy for three weeks, at the end of 
which time, add three quarters of a 
pound of fine clarified sugar to each 
quart, let it stand a fortnight longer, 
a and bottle it. 


LEM 


Lemon Peel Syrup of.* —Take five | 
ounces of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a | 
glass cucurbite, which has been gradu- | 


ally heated; pour on them two pounds 
of near] 
twelve hours; after which, let the in- 
fusion run out gently without pressing 
the peel; add two pounds of powder 
sugar, and then boilthe whole to grand 
perlé, when about half cold, put in a few 
drops of spirit of lemon. 

Lemon Petits Soufles of.*—Put halfa 
pound of sifted sugar into a pan, and mix 
it with the white of an egg; rasp the rind 
of.a fine sound lemon on a plegs of sugar, 
scrape off the surface, and add it to the 
above; when it has become a pretty firm 
paste, roll it out, sprinkle fine sugar 
over, and cut it into bands about an inch 
wide ; cut these again into squares, which 
roll in the hollow of your hands, wet- 
ting them slightly for that purpose 5 the 
souffies being formed, put each in a small 
round case, rather more than an inch in 
diameter, and about four in_ height; 
when all is done, dip the end of your 
fore finger in water, and press it lightly 
on the top of each souffle; put them into 
a gentle oven, for about a quarter of an 
hour, by which time they will have risen 
considerably above the case; if the sur- 
face be well dried, take them out, but if 
not, letthem remain afew minutes longer. 

Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut 
each into eight pieces; put on them a 
pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, 
two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, a 
quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same 
Quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, 

itto of cayenne, and two ounces of flour 
of mustard; to these put two quarts of 
vinegar, put it in a strong jar, ina kettle 
of boiling water; or set the jar on a hot- 
hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir 
it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close 
covered. Put it into small bottles. 

Lemon to Pickle.*—Take twelve le- 
mons, and rub them well with a piece of 
flannel ; then rub them over with bay 
salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, 
turning them every day, for three days ; 
then slice an ounce of ginger, and salt it 
well, and let it lay in salt for three days ; 
_ parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salt- 
ed, for three days. A small*handful of 
mustard-seed bruised, some cayenne pep- 
per, and one clove of garlic should 
. put to each lemon; take your 
lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, 
put them into a jar with the spice, and 
cover them with the best white wine 
vinegar; stop them up close, and in a 
month’s time they will he fit for use. 

' Lemons to Pickle.—They should be 


( 314 ) 


bviling water ; close the vessel | 
very tight, and place it on hot ashes for 





LEM 


small, and with thick rinds; rub them 
with pieces of flannel, then slit them ha 

down in four quarters, but not throug 

to the pulp; fill the slits with salt, hard 
pressed in, set them upright in a par for 
four or five days, until the salt melts; 
turn them thrice a day in their own 
liquor, until tender; make a sufficient 
quantity of pickle to cover them, of rape- 
vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica 
pepper, and ginger ; boil and skim it 5 
when cold, put it to the lemons, with two 
ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of 


garlic to six lemons, . 


Lemon Posset.—Squeeze the juice of 
two lemons into a china bow], or small 
deep dish, that will hold a quart ; sweeten 
it like syrup, add a little brandy; boil 
one pint of cream with a bit of orange- 
peel; take out the peel; when cold, put 
the cream into a teapot, pour it to the 
syrup, holding it high. Make it the day 
before it is wanted. 

Lemons Preserved, Liquid and Dry.* 
—Choose your lemons as near of a size 
as you can, with rather thick rinds; 

are, and putthem in cold water, then 
into boiling water over a moderate fire ; 
and when you can insert a pin’s hea 
with ease, throw them again into cold 
water. Boil some sugar to dssé, then 
put in the lemons, give them a-few boils 
together, skim, and put them intoa pan; 
the next day drain off the sugar, boil it 
several times, and then pour it over the 
lemons. again; the third day boil the 
sugar to /a nappe, adding fresh sugar to 
it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, and 
give them one boil ; do this for two days 
successively; on the last, however, boil 


| the sugar to per/é, and when you have 


boiled the lemons, put them by in pots. 
Lemon Pudding.— Peel four_lemons 
thin; boil them till they are tender ; rub 
them through a hair sieve, and preserve 
the fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples 
biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and two 
ounces of fresh butter, and pour over 
them some boiling milk or cream in 
which a stick of cinnamon has been 
bouled. When cold, mix with them the 
ulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well 
beaten ; sweeten according to taste, and 
if you choose, add brandy. Edge a dish 
with good puff-paste, put in the mixture 3 
garnish the top with strings of paste, as 
for tartlets, and bake it in a moderately 
heated oven. wit 
Lemon Pudding.—Put half a pound of 
fresh butter with half a pound of loaf- 
sugar, into a saucepan, and keep it 
stirring over the fire till it boils; put it 
into an earthen pan, and grate the rind 
of a large lemon into it, and Jet it stand 
till cold; beat eight eggs, and squeeze 











LEM 

the juice of the lemon on them; mix the 
sugar and butter with them; put some 
rich pufl-paste at the bottom of a dish, 
then put in the preparation, add bits of 
candied lemon-peel when you have put 
in the preparation. Bake with great 
eare. 
. Lemons (Rinds of) Marmalade. * — 
Having squeezed the juice from your 
emons, cut out all the white part, and 
put the rinds into boiling water; assoon 
as they begin to soften, take them from 
the fire, and throw them into cold water ; 
then lay them on a sieve to drain, and 
make them into marmalade, in the same 
manner as apricots. Orange rinds are 
done this way. 

Lemon Sauce.*— Put two glasses of 
water into a saucepan, over the fire, and 
as soon as it boils, add shred parsley, 
salt, pepper, a piece of butter, and the 
juice of two lemons; make the whole 
quite hot, and in about five minutes the 
sauce will.be ready for table. 

' Lemon Sauce.—Pare a lemon, and cut 
it into slices; take out the seeds, and 
chop itsmall; boil the liver of a fowl, and 


bruise it ; mix these ina little gravy, then | 


melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., 
and add a little of the peel, chopped fine. 

Lemon Sauee for Boiled Fowls.— Cut 
thin slices of lemon into very small dice, 
and put them into melted butter; give 
it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. 

Lemon Sauce (White) for Boiled 
Fowis.—Put the peel of a small lemon, 
cut extremely thin, into a pint of sweet, 
rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, 
and ten white pepper-corns; simmer it 
gently till it tastes well of the lemon; 
then strain it, and thicken it with a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, rubbed in a des- 
sert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up, then 
pour the juice of the lemon strained into 
it, stirring it well. Dish the fowls, and 
then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, 
with the cream, but do not boil them 
together: add salt according to your 
taste. 
-Lemon Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound 
and a half of white sugar in a quart of 
clear water ; take nine large lemons, wipe 
them perfectly, cut each across, and 
squeeze the juice into the dissolved 
gugar ; plunge the lemons into the sugar-. 
ed water, and press them, so as to extract 
not only the juice, but the oil contained 
in the rind. Mix the whole together, 
and strain it through a close hair sieve. 
Pour the liquid into a sorbetiére, and 
finish in the same manner as cream 
sherbet. 

Lemon Sweetmeats.*— Take a pound 
of marchpane paste, and mix it with as 
many yolks of eggs as will enable you to 


( 315 ) 


LEM 


spread the paste with a knife; add to it 
a sufficient quantity of grated lemon- 
peel to impart the flavour required. The 
whole being well mixed, cut some sheets 
of wafer paper into such figures as your 
fancy may dictate, and spread the paste 
over them, about a quarter of an inch in 
thickness ; place them on paper, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. If you 
wish to glaze your sweetmeats, boil some 
sugar with orange flower water to /a 
plume, and when they are taken out of 
the oven, wash them over with the syrup, 
which dries almost immediately. 

Lemon Syllabubs.—Take a pint of 
cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of 
two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar 
according to taste; let it stand some 
time ; mill or whip it, lay the froth on a 
Sieve; put the remainder into glasses, 
and lay on the froth. They should be 
made the day before they are wanted. 
If you should wish them to taste very 
strong of the lemon, you must make use 
of the juice of six lemons, and nearly a 
pound of sugar; they will keep four or 
five days. 

Lemons (Syrup of).* — Squeeze as 
many lemons as will yield about three 
quarters of a pound of juice, taking par- 
ticular care that the peel of every lemon 
is perfectly sound, and that they are 
none of them in the least degree bitter. 
Set your juice in the cellar for four days, 
and then filter it through blotting-paper. 
Break a pound and a half of double re= 
fined sugar into pieces about an inch 
square; put them into a gallon matrass, 
pour the lemon-juice ever it, close the 
matrass with paper, and place it ina bain 
marie until the sugar is entirely dis- 
solved; then extinguish your fire, and 
let the matrass cool gradually; when 
cold, add two spoonsful of spirit of le- 
mons, then bottle it, keep it well corked. 

Lemon Tart.—Rub six lemons well 
with salt, put them into water with a 
little salt in it for two days ; then change 
them every day with fresh water without 
salt, for a fortnight. Boil them till they 
are tender, and then cut them into half 
E Manahina cornerwise, as thin as possible. 
Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, 
and quartered, and put them intoa pint 
of water. Let them boil till they break ; 
then put the liquor to the lemons, half 
the pulp of the pippins well broken, and 
a pound of sugar. Boil these together a 
quarter of an hour; then put it intoa 
pot, and squeeze into it the juice of a 
lemon; two spoonsful will be sufficient 
to give a proper flavour to your tart. 
Put fine thin puff-paste into your patty- 

ans, which must be small and shallow. 

oe ae put your tarts in the oven 


‘LEN 


take a feather or brush and rub them 
over with melted butter, and then sift 
wver them some double-refined sugar. 
Lemon Wafers.—Squeeze the juice of 
six lemons into a basin; pound and sift 
some double-refined sugar, and mix it 
with the lemon-juice; put the white of 
one egg with it, and mix the whole well 
together with a wooden spoon, to make 
it of a good consistence; take some sheets 
of wafer-paper, and put one sheet of it 
on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it 
a spoonful of the preparation, and spread 
it all over the paper with a knife; cut it 
into twelve pieces, and put them across 
a stick in a hot stove, with that side the 
paste is on uppermost, and you will find 
they. will curl; when they are halfcurled, 
take them off very carefully and put 
them up, endways, ina sieve, that they 
may stand up; let them be in the hot 
stove one day, and you will find they 
will be all curled, and then they are 
done. 
_ Lemon Water.—Put two slices of thinly 
pared lemon intoateapot, alittle bit of the 
peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoon- 
ful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling 
water, and stop it close for two hours. 
Lemon /Vater Ice.—To a pint of 
lemon-juice, put a pint of water, halfa 
gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified 
sugar, and freeze it. 
_ Lemon (White) Conserve. — Boil a 
pound of the finest sugar, take it off the 
fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon at different times, stirring con- 
tinually ; it will make the sugar as white 
as milk if properly done; take care not 
to drop any of the seeds into it; work it 
well together, and when itis of an equal 
substance (which prove in the same man- 
ner as any other jelly), pour it into a 
mould. Lemon conserve is made in the 
same manner, only that the sugar must 
be boiled to a. greater height than for 
white lemon conserve. 
LENTILS.*—Choose them large and 
white, and, after having washed and 
picked them, boil in water; when done, 
fricassee them like white kidney-beans. 
There is a small sort of lentil which is 
not much used to fricassee, but is the 
best to make cullis, both from the colour 
being finer, and the flavour better. 
Lentit Cullis—Make a meat gravy 
with veal, ham, onions, parsley, scallions, 
two. cloves, and some winter savory; set 
these on the fire, and when the meat 
catches, add seme stock, and simmer 
till done. Boil the lentils in stock, 
pound and rub them through a sieve into 
the stewpan with the meat; give the 
whole one boil; then take out the meat, 


( 316 ) 


LET 
and strain the cullis, which must not be 
too thick. ere 
_Lentits, fricasseed.*—Make ‘a light 
roux, in which put some sweet herbs, or 
onions cut in dice; give them.a few turns 
in the roux; to which add a little stock, 
or water; when well mixed, put in the 
pele with salt and pepper. Serve them 
ot. 

LenTi1s @ la Maitre d’ Hétel.*—Blanch 
and drain your lentils, put them into a 
pan with a good bit of butter, shred par- 
sley and scallions, salt, and pepper; fry 
them lightly, and serve them very hot. 

Lentits @ la Matire d’ Hétel.*—Boil 
some lentils insalt and water; then drain 
them, and put them into a saucepan, 
with a large piece of butter; shred par- 
sley, some salt, and pepper; toss them 
in a stewpan, and serve them hot. Gar- 
nish with crusts of bread round. 

Lentits, Purée of.*—Take two pints 

of lentils, and do them in the same man- 
ner as dry peas; when done, take out 
the vegetables, bacon, and beef; strain 
the lentils, and put them into a stewpan, 
with three or four ladlesful of espagnole. 
This purée requires more liquid than 
the peas, as it will take a longer time 
to colour; skim it well, and be careful. 
not to make it too thick. When pro- 
perly reduced, put it into another sauce- 
pan, and set it by till wanted. 
_ LETTUCES @ U’Espagnole.*—Wash 
some lettuce-hearts; boil them about 
twenty minutes in plenty of water with 
salt in it; then press out all the water; 
put pepper and salt inside the lettuces,. 
and tie them up. Lay slices of veal and: 
bacon, two carrots cut in pieces, three: 
onions, two cloves, and a bay-leaf; put 
in the lettuces, with bacon over them 3 
moisten with stock and the remains of 
broth; when they have simmered an 
hour, put the lettuces in a cloth, press 
out all the moisture, untie and glaze 
them. Dish them, ex couwronne, with 
croutons, nearly the same size. Serve an 
espagnole sauce under them. 

Letruces, Fried.*—Choose your let- 
tuces small and round; trim and tie 
them up, ye them into a stewpan with 
slices of bacon, carrots, onions, salt, 
pepper, nutmeg,a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and stock; braise them in this till nearly 
done; take them out, press them ina 
cloth; when cold, dip them in batter 
and fry them. 

Letruces, Garbure of.*—Put about 
thirty lettuces into boiling water, and 
blanch them for half an hour; then let 
them cool; press out all the water, tie 
them up, line a stewpan with slices of 
veal and bacon; lay the lettuces on this, 


es Uh he 








LET 
with two or three carrots, three onions, 
and two cloves; cover them with bacon, 
pour in some good stock, and simmer 
them an hour and a half; then drain the 
lettuces, cut them in slices, longwise. 
Put, alternately, layers of bread-crumbs 
and lettuces, until all the latter are 
used ; pour the sauce over them (having 
Strained it); set the dish over the fire, 
and simmer the whole for some time. 


Put scarcely any salt to this gardure, but 


strew pepper between each layer. 

‘Lertuces, Garniture of.*—Take se- 
veral fine lettuces, pick off the green 
leaves ; wash them well in cold water; 
and having blanched them in boiling, 
throw them again into cold water; drain, 
press, and tiethem up. Putthe lettuces 
into a stewpan with slices of bacon and 
veal, salt, pepper, scallions, thyme, 
basil, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, onions, 
and carrots, a glass of white wine, and a 
sufficient quantity of either stock or 
water to cover them; braise them in this 
for several hours over aslow fire. When 
wanted, drain them well, and if large, 
cut them in two, lengthwise. 

Lerruces with Gravy.*—Wash and 
boil them in boiling water, with some 
salt ; when done, press and chop them up, 
and put them intoa saucepan witha little 
flour, dripping, or butter, and gravy; 
moisten with stock, and serve. 

Lettuces, Minced.*—Take as many 
lettuce-hearts as you may require; wash 
them well, and blanch them in a little 
salt water; when done, put them into 
cold water; when they are sufficiently 
cooled, put them into a cullender, and 
press out all the water with your hand; 
then mince them small; put a quarter 
of a pound of butter into a stewpan; then 
put in the lettuces with salt and pepper; 
in a few minutes stir ina little flour, add 
some stock, and stew the whole abcuta 
quarter of an hour; then serve it with 
bread round it. 

Lettuce Sowp.*—Having picked and 
washed the lettuces, put them into boil- 
ing water, with a handful of salt, for half 
an hour; then throw them into cold 
water ; the lettuces being cooled, press 
out the water, and tie them up; lay some 
slices of veal in a stewpan, then slices of 
bacon; place your lettuces on them, 
cover them with the same; put in some 
onions and carrots sliced; moisten them 
with stock, and boil them over a gentle 
fire for an hour or longer, if necessary; 
prepare your bread as usual, and piace 
the lettuces on it. 

Lettuce Soup —Take two dozen fine 
cabbage lettuces, well washed and blanch- 
ed in salt and water ; when done, take a 
cullender spoon, and put them in a stew- 


( 317) 


LEV 


pan of clear water for a few minutes, 
place them on a clear hair sieve, and 
when well strained, they must be cut 
across in three pieces, and put in a soup 
pot with a little sugar and salt; fill it 
up with good consommé, and set it by the 
stove to boil gently; skim it well, and 
clarify it the same as other soups. 

Letruces (minced) Soup.*—Pick off 
all the green leaves of the lettuces, chop - 
the hearts sma!l, and toss them up in a 
little butter, till they are reduced to a 
pulp ; then add your broth or stock, and 
boil them for an hour; soak your bread 
as usual, and then finish your soup. Cos 
lettuces are done in the same manner, 

Lettuces Stuffed.—This dish is pre- 
pared, dressed, and served in the same 
manner as cabbages stuffed. 

LEVERET.—(See Hare.) 

LeveReET @ 1’ Anglaise,*—Skin a leve- 
ret without taking off the paws, which 
must also be skinned, leave on the nails; 
then take out the internal parts carefully ; 
scald the ears in the same manner as 
those of a pig; remove the bitter parts 
froin the liver, pound it with equal quan- 
tities of butter and panada; mix these 
with the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, 
spices ; cut a large onion into dice, toss 
it up in a little butter ; when cold, add it 
with a smali quantity of dry sage rubbe 
into powder, to your farce, and fill the 
leveret ; Sew it up, and truss it ; fasten it 
on the spit, tie slices of bacon, and a but- 
tered paper over it; roast it about an 
hour and a quarter; take off the paper, 
and the bacon, before it is quite done; 
serve it with gravy and currant jelly, an 
melted butter if you like. ; 

LEvERET en Caisse.*—Take two small, 
or one good-sized leveret, cut in pieces, 
as for czvet ; put into a stewpan a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, two ounces of 
grated bacon, a dozen shalots, as many 
mushrooms, and some parsley, all chop- 
ped small; season it with anit: pepper, 
nutmeg, and other spice, a clove of gar- 
lic pounded, and a bay-leaf; put to this 
a bottle of white wine, and reduce till 
the herbs give out the butter again ; then 
put in the pieces of hare, and stew it with 

re over and under for half an hour, then 
take them out, and lay them on a dish; 
put twospoonsful of reduced espagnole to 
the herbs, and when pretty thick, pour it 
over the leveret, and leave it to cool; in 
the meanwhile oil six sheets of paper, on 
one of which lay thin slices of bacon ; 
then put the cold leveret in as square a 
form as you can, with all the seasoning, 


cover it with bacon, and the five sheets 


of paper, so folded, over the edges (still 
preserving the square shape) that none 
of the ees or saticé may escape, tie 


LEV 


hour pefare anne put it 

‘gridiron, over a slow fire; be care- 
ful that the paper does not burn; when 
sufficiently done, take off the thread and 
one sheetof the paper; make a small 
square opening, into which pour a re- 
duced espagnole. 

Leveret in Caul.— Bone a leveret, 
and fill it with a good forcemeat, wrap it 
in a caul, fasten it on the spit, baste with 
butter, and when done, serve it with a 
sauce piquante. le 

Levenen au Chevreuil.—Singe a good- 
sized leveret over a charcoal fire, lard 
and lay it for three or four hours in 
warm water, vinegar, butter, flour, salt, 
pepper, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay-leaf, 
basil, sliced onions, jemon-peel and 
cloves ; fasten iton the spit, put it to the 
fire, basting it with the above marinade : 
strain what remains of it, add a little cul- 


it up, and an 


lis, and serve in a boat, when the leyeret 


is done, 
LEVERETS, Collops of.* — Take the 
meat from the bones of a cold roast leve- 
ret, mince it.as fine as possible, with a 
slice of lamb or veal blanched; put it 
into a saucepan, with a piece of butter 
roUed in flour, and a_little veal gravy, 
give it a fewj turns: injthe meantime, 
roll cut some pufl-paste very thin; cut 
it into pieces the size of a crown-plece ; 
moisten one half of the number, lay a 
little of the above preparation on each} 
and cover them wit 
of the pieces; fasten the edges together, 
and fry them either in lard or butter. 
* Leveret, Cutlets of.—Take the fillets 
from a leveret, cut out as many ribs as 
you have fillets, and stick a bone in 
each; lay them ona dish that will bear 
the fire, with a little broth, sweet herbs, 
mushrooms, pepper, salt, and a piece of 
butter; cover, and set the dish on the 
fire; stir them two or three times, when 
done, serve them with a rich cullis. _ 
Luvener Fillets Bigarré.*—Take eight 
leveret fillets, trim and bread the four 
smallest ; have some breasts of fowl cut 
in semicircles, slit the four larger fillets, 
and put one of the semicircles in each, so 
as toform a J; broil the four breaded 
fillets, and fry the four others lightly in 
butter; dish them alternately en cou- 
vonne, With a purée of mushrooms in the 
middle; glaze, and serve them. 
~ Lryerets’ Fillets Fried.* —Take six 
fillets of leveret, cut each into three 
pieces, and these again in two, by which 
you will have eighteen pieces: make a 
farce the same as for hare; split each 
piece in half; beat them with the handle 
of a knife; season with salt and pepper ; 
spread the farce over, and roll them up, 
to about the size of a finger ; bread them 


( 518 ) 


the remaining haif 





LV» 


twice, the last time with egg, and fry 
them ; drain, and serve them with a clear 
aspic sauce. Set 
Leverets (Fillets) Tourte of.—Cut the - 
meat off the leyeret into small pieces, 
each of which roll in grated bacon, salt 
and pepper} prepare your crust, lay a. 
little butter on it; then put the meat 
with more butter, a slice of ham, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and lay slices of bacon 
over the whole; cover and bake the: 
tourte ; when done, open it, take out the: 
bacon, ham, and herbs: make a sauce 
with the bones and some cullis, pour itr 
in, lay on the top of the ¢ourde, and serve 
it. . 
LeveretT, Gravy of.*—Cut some bacon 
into dice, put it into a saucepan with some 
small onions, mushrooms, parsley, thin 
slices of veal, alittle pepper and salt, 2 
glass of stock, the same of white wine, 
two tarragon leaves, and a little lemon; 
lay a leveret cut in pieces on these ; 
cover the saucepan close, and let it stand 
for thre or four hours on a slow fire ; then 
take out the leveret, cut the meat from 
the bones, press out all the gravy until 
nothing remains but the dry fibres ; take 
off whatever fat may be on it, and strain 
the gravy for use. ; 5 
LIAISON.—Tihickening it is usually 
done with the yolks of eggs. 
LIQUORICE Paste. — Scrape and 
bruise a quarter of a pound of liquorice- 
root, and boil it in a little water 1ill it is 
much reduced ; let it stand to settle, and 
pour it clear off, and dissolve in it half an 
ounce of gum-dragon: when thoroughly 
dissolved, sift it in a linen bag, and 
mix sugar with it till it is brought to 
the consistence of a paste; then cut it 
into what flowers or designs you think 


proper. 

LIVERS in Caul.— Bake the lean 
livers of pullets, capons, geese, turkies, 
&c., with marrow, and bacon, veal sweet- 
breads, mushrooms, and truftles, some 
lean dressed ham, some onion and_par- 
sley; when it is well minced, mix it with 
yolks of eggs to bind it; take the cau] of 
a calfor sheep, and cut it into pieces, 
according to the size you. would -have 
them ; lay some of the farce on the piece 
of caul, and a fat liver upon that, then 
some more forcemeat, then another liver, 
then forcemeat, and so on till you have 
laid all; put the caul on a sheet of paper, 
and fry it in boiling lard, or bake them in 
an oven in a pasty-pan: when they are 
done, drain away the fat, lay them in a 
dish, warm a little gravy, season with 
salt and pepper, and pour it over the 
livers; adda squeeze of orange or lemon 


juice, and serve. 


Livers (Fag), Collops of.*—Pound some 











game thickness as the bread, smooth 


LIV 


fat livers with beef marrow, fine herbs, 
shred small, salt, and spices; mix them 
together with cream, or yolks of eggs; 
rojl out some puff-paste, cut, fill, an 
finish the collops in the same manner as 
collops of leveret. 

. Livers (Fat) Garniture.*—Take six 
fat livers, from which take the bitter 
parts, trim them carefully, so that they 
do not burst; then lay them in water to 
get rid of the blood, and scald them the 
same as cocks’-combs; stew the livers 
between slices of bacon, in a rich mire- 
poix; when done, lay them aside till 
wanted for garniture. 

Liver (Fat) Loaf.*—Weigh a pound 
of fat livers, ten ounces of panada, and 
eight of fresh butter, or grated bacon}; 
pound the panada, then add the butter to 
it, and pound them together ; take them 
out of the mortar, in which pound the 
livers, after a time put the other ingre- 
dients to it, and beat the whole well for 
a quarter of an hour, mixing with it by 
degrees, the yolks of five eggs, an ounce 
of spiced salt, two spoonsful of fine herbs, 
done ‘up in butter, and one of velouté ; 
rub this farce through a quenelle sieve 
into a pan; add to it two ounces of calf’s 
udder, two of tongue, @ /’écarlate, and 
two. of truffles all cut. into dice; line a 
plain circular mould with thin slices of 
bacon, make them very smooth, and put 
the farce into it. 

Liver (Fat) Toasts. — Make a farce 
with some bread soaked in cream, truf- 
fles, one or two fat livers, marrow, shalots. 
all well pounded, and mixed with shred 
parsley, pepper, salt and eggs; cut some 
slices of crumb of bread, about half an 
inch thick; spread the farce on, of the 


them with a knife dipped in whites of 
eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and fry 
them; serve with any clear sauce under 
them. 
Livers(Fat) Tourte of. —Put the crust 
upon a pie-dish in the usual manner, and 
lay pounded bacon at the bottom ; season 
the livers and place them on the bacon ; 
cover them with butter, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, one slice of ham, and _a few of 
bacon; cover, and bake it. The ham, 
bacon, and herbs rnust be taken out when 
it is done, drain off the fat, and poura 
ragout of cock’s-combs in, and serve. 
Livers (Fish) Toasts.—Mince the 
livers of any kind of fish, and having 
mixed them with shred parsley, shalots 
and capers, pepper and salt, set it on the 
fire with a bit of butter, and letitsimmer 
for some time; in the mean time takesome 
slices of crumb of bread, cut them into 
what shape you please, fry them in but- 
ter, and when the livers are cold, spread 


(319 ) 










LIV 


the preparation on the bread with fillets 
of anchovies laid in cross-bars over ft; 
baste them with melted butter, strew 
bread crumbs over, place them on a, 
baking plate, and bake them for half an — 
hour. Serve the toasts with melted but- 
ter and lemon juice. “ 

Livers with Mushrooms.—Take the 
livers of any sort of tame fowls, and 
when they are cleared from the galls, 
put bards of bacon at the bottom of a 
baking-pan, and lay the livers upon 
them ; season the livers and cover them 
with bards of bacon; bake them in a 
moderately heated oven; wash and pick 
some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, 
then lay them in a dish with a little 
bacon and vinegar; then toss some slices 
of ham in boiling lard, with a bunch of 
savory, and a pinch of flour; moisten it 
with some veal gravy ; when the mush- 
rooms and livers are well drained, boil 
them in the same sauce, skim off the fat, 
and serye them up hot. . 

Liver and Parsley Sauce.—Wash the 
liver (which should be quite fresh) of a 
fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes, 
in five table spoonsful of water; chop it 
fine, or pound or bruise it in a small 
quantity of the liquor it was boiled in, 
and rub it through a sieve; wash about 
one-third its bulk of parsley leaves, boil 
them in a little boiling water with a tea 
spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a. hair 
sieve to drain, and chop it very fine; mix 
it with the liver, and put it intoa quarter 
of a pint of melted butter, and warm it 
up; do not let it boil. 

Livers au Ragovt.—Take the liver of 
a turkey and the livers of half a dozen 
fowls, clean them, and take the greatest 
care not to break the galls, for if the 
livers are bitter the dish will be spoiled ; 
put them into cold water, and then put 
the livers of the fowls into a saucepan, 
with rather more than a quarter of a pint 
of gravy, a spoonful of catsup, a spoonful 
of pickled mushrooms, a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, and some salt and pep- 
per; stew them gently ten or twelve 
minutes ; nicely broil the turkey’s liver, 
lay it in the middle of the dish, place the 
stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce 
over. 

Liver Sauce.—Take the livers of poul- 
try, or game, chop them very small, with 
parsley, scallions, tarragon-leaves, and 
shalots. Soak them in a little butter 
over the fire, and then pound them, add 
cullis stock, pepper and salt; give the 
whole a boil with two glasses of red wine, 
coriander, cinnamon, and sugar; reduce 
and strain it. Thicken with a, bit of 
butter rolled in flour. Serve it in a 


sauce-boat. 


LOB 

Liver Sauce for Boiled Chickens.— 
Boil the livers till you can bruise them 
with the back of a spoon, mix them in a 
little of the liquor they were boiled in; 
melt some butter very smooth and put 
to them; add a little grated lemon peel, 
and boil all up together. 

LIVERNOISE.—This sauce is only a 
Macédoine, made with Espagnole instead 
of béchamelle ; reduce a few carrots and 
turnips to a glaze, and add them to the 
pang f give taking care that it does not 

oil. 
LOAF @ la Duchesse.—Blanch and 
pound two ounces of pistachio nuts, half 
a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of 
dried lemon chips, and half a_pound of 
sugar: when all these are reduced toa 
paste, mix it with the yolks of six eggs, 
add the whites well beaten; form into 
the shape of a loaf, place it in a but- 
tered dish, and bake it in a slow oven: 
when done, glaze, and strew nonpareils 
over It. 

Loar, Spanish.—Scoop out the crumbs 
from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill 
them with any sort of cream you may 
think proper; soak them in Spanish 
wine for a short time; sprinkle flour 
over and fry them}; glaze them before 
they are sent to table. 

Loar en Surprise.—Scoop out the 
crumb from a crusty French roll, dry 
the crust a minute in the oven, glaze 
and replace it to dry ; when cold, fill it 
with blancmange; put it on ice, and 
when the blancmange is quite firm, 
place it on a dish for table. This should 
be done either with one large French 
brick, or three or four rolls. 

LOBSTERS, to Choose.—The heaviest 
are considered the best, and it is prefer- 
able to boil them at home. If they are 
quite fresh, the claws will have a strong 
motion when you put your finger on the 
eyes and press them. When you buy 
them ready boiled, try whether their 
tails are stiff and pull up with a spring, 
otherwise that part will be flabby. The 
cock-lobster may be distinguished from 
the hen by the narrow back part of the 
tail, and the two uppermost fins within 
it are stiff and hard; but those of the 
hen are soft, and the tail broader. The 
male, though generally the smallest, has 
the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, 
and the colour when boiled is a deeper 
red. They come in about April, and 
remain in season till the oysters return. 
Hen lobsters are preferred for sauces, 
on account of their coral. 

Lossters, to Botl.—Put on a fish-ket- 


tle, with water salted in the proportion | 


of a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of 
water, and when it boils put in the lob- 


( 320 ) 


ster, and keep it boiling briskly from half 
an hour to an hour, according to the size 
of the lobster; wipe off all the scum 


LOB 


from it, and rub the shell with a very 


little butter or sweet oil; break off the 
great claws, crack them carefully in each: 


joint, so that they may not be shattered, 
and yet come to pieces easily; cut the 
tail down the middle, and send up the 
body whole. 

-Lossters Broiled.—When the lobsters 
are boiled, split their tails and chines, 
crack the claws, pepper and salt them ; 
take out their bodies, and what is called 
the lady; then put them again into the 
shell, and then on the gridiron over a 
clear fire, also the tails and claws; baste 
them with butter, and serve them with 
melted butter for sauce. 

Lozsters Buttered.—Boil them, take 
out the meat, cut it into pieces, put to it 
a little gravy, the inside of the lobster, 
and the spawn bruised ; add a very little 
white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon- 
peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in 
flour, and a little lemon-juice ; stir this 
together, let it boil up; quarter the 
chine, season it with pepper and salt, and 
broil it ; lay it on the dish on the rest. 
Garnish witk sliced lemon. 

Logster Cake.—Pound the meat of 
two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw 


ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four . 


eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a 


a little mace pounded, cayenne pepper, 


and salt. Colour the whole with lobster 
oa then line a mould with thin 
slices of fat bacon, press down the mix- 
ture into it, cover with bards of bacon, 
and put on the cover of the mould ; and 
then put it into the oven, let it bake an 
hour and a half, and Jet it stand till cold ; 
turn it out of the mould, take the fat 
away, and serve the cake up, either mo- 
delled or plain, with some savory jelly 
round it, ey Pe 

Lossrers, Curry of.—Take them from 
their shells, and lay them in a pan, with 
a small piece of mace, four spoonsful of 
veal gravy and four of cream; rub one 
or two tea spoonsful of curry-powder 
quite smooth, one tea spoonful of flour, 
and one ounce of butter; simmer for an 
hour’ squeeze in the juice of half a 
lemon, and add salt. 

Lozssters in an Italian Salad.—Take 
two lobsters, cut them in pieces by tak- 
ing off the claws and tail, each of which 
split in two; the spawn rub through a 
dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in 
the following manner:—wash two or 
three cabbage-lettuces, take away the 
stalks, cut them in large shreds, slice a 
beet-root and a cucumber; wash, pick, 
and cut into long shreds, four anchovies, 


f 
| 
] 
| 
| 


eee 





UREA, ae te i ad pr 


LOB 


chop some tarragon and chervil, two 
boiled eggs, the yolks and whites chopped 
Separately ; if you have any cauliflowers 
or French beans, boil and put them with 
the other things to garnish: having 
every thing prepared, place the lettuces 
in the centre of the dish ina heap, and 
place the lobster and other things ac- 
cording to your taste, and just before 
you serve, garnish it with [talian salud 
SAUCE» 

Logsrers toMarinate.—Halfboil them, 
take out the meat and lard the tails with 
a salted eel : then cut the tails longways, 
and fry them in oil; makea sauce with 
white vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, 
sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter sa- 
vory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rose- 
mary and ‘thyme, and some bay leaves ; 
dish the lobsters, and pour the sauce 
over them ; lay upon them three lemons 
cut in slices, and run it all over with 
butter. 

Logster Patties.—Sheet your patty- 


- pans with puff paste, and put a small 


piece of crumb of bread into each ; then 


cover them with more paste, trim round 
the pan, wash the tops of the paste with 


egg, and bake them of a light colour. 
When they are to be served, take out 
the bread and fill them with lobster 
chopped; add to them a little strong 
eonsommé of veal, a small quantity of 
flour, lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, a bit 
of lemon-peel, a shalot chopped fine, 
an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and 
mixed over the fire for five minutes. 
The lobsters should be half boiled before 
they are chopped for the patties. 
_Losster, Petits Patés of.*—Take some 
light puff-paste, roll it out thin, and cut 
it into pieces with a circular paste-cut- 
ter; lay them as smoothly as possible in 
small copper drum-shaped moulds ; take 
the tails of two lobsters, cut the meat 
into small pieces, which put into some 
béchamel ; when well heated fill the 
petits pdtes, cover, dorez, and bake 
them. As soon as they are done, take 
them out of the moulds, and serve them. 
Lossters to Pickle.—Boil your lob- 
sters in vinegar, white-wine and salt; 
then take them up, and put into the 
liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, 
pepper, and mace ; then put in the lob- 
sters again, boil them all together; when 
completely done, take them out and put 


~ them into a barrel or vessel just large 


enough to hold them; pour the liquor 
over them, and set them by for use. 
Losster Pie.—Boil two or three lob- 
sters, take the meat out of the tails, and 
cut it into pieces. Then take out all the 
spawn, and the meat from the claws; 
beat it well in a mortar, and season it 


( 821 ) 


LOB 


with pepper, salt, two spoonsful of vine- 
gar, and a little anchovy liquor. Melt 
half a pound of fresh butter with some 
bread crumbs grated very fine, and the: 
yolks of ten eggs. Puta good puff paste. 
over the dish, lay in the tails, and then 
add the rest of the meat onthem. Put: 
on the lid, and bake it in a slow oven. 

Lossters Potted.—Take out the meat; 
as whole as you can, split the tail, and re= 
move the gut; ifthe inside is not watery; 
add that. Season with mace, nutmeg,: 
white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves, 
in the finest powder. Puta little butter 
at the bottom of the pan, and the lob- 
sters smooth over it, with bay-leaves be-. 
tween; cover it with butter, and bake it 
gently. When done, pour the whole on 
the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork 
lay the pieces into potting-jars, some of 
each sort, with the seasoning about ite 
When cold, pour clarified butter over it, 
but not hot ; it will be good the day after 
it is done, and if very highly-seasoned 
and thick-covered with butter, will keep 
some time. Potted lobster may be used 
cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce. 

Losster @ la Remoulade.* — Break, 
the shell, open the back, take out all 
the inside, and put it into a china ba- 
sin, mix a dessert spoonful of mustard, 
parsley and shalots, shred small, salt, 
pepper, and the coral: stir these toge- 
ther well, with some oil and vinegar; 
put your lobster on a dish, and the above 
mixture or remouwlade ina sauce-boat. | 

Lozster Roasted.—More than half boil 
it, take it out of the water; while hot, 
rub it well with butter, put it ina Dutch 
oven, baste it well till nicely frothed ; 
serve with melted butter. 

Logsrer Sauee. — Put the coral or 
spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a 
bit of butter, and well pound it; then rub 
it through a fine hair sieve; put some 
butter sauce into a stewpan, and the 
coral of the lobster: set it on the fire till 
it is very hot, and looks perfectly smooth 
and red, if not smooth pass it through @ 
tammy: then put in the meat of the lob- 
ster, cut into small dice; make it very 
hot, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and 
serve it to table. 

Lozster Sauce. — Pound the coral, 
pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy 3 
strain it intosome melted butter ; then 
put in the meat of the lobster, give it all 
one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. 
You may, if you choose, add two ancho- 
vies pounded. 

LogsTEr in a Savory Jelly.— Make a 
good aspic jelly, being very clear, and the 
mould ready in ice, half fill it with the 
jelly, and when it is set, lay some ancho- 
vies, shredded fine, in what form you 


LOB 


please, on the jelly, then your lobster, 
cut the same as for salad, over it; fill the 
mould with the remainder of the jelly, 
and when set serve it fora second course, 
entrée, orasupper dish, — 

_ Lossten (Collops of) in the Shell.*— 
Cut the lobster in two, without breaking 


the shell, take out all the meat, and cut } 


it into dice, take out all the inside of the 
lobster and clean the shell. Put two 
spoonsful of velouté, a little butter, salt, 
and cayenne pepper into a saucepan, and 
stir it over the fire: when quite hot, put 
in the minced meat, and the inside; 
and pour the whole together into the 
shell; smooth it over witha knife, strew 
bread-crumbs over, baste it with clarified 
butter, make it very hot, and colour it 
with a salamander. 
Losster, Small Timbales of. — Take 
the white meat from a couple of small 
lobsters, cut it into dice ; mix twospoons- 
ful of béchamel with a quarter of a pound 


of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a | 


tea-spoonful of cavice, and half a spoun- 
ful of elder vinegar ; make it hot, but not 
boiling ; put in the lobster, season with 
pepper and salt, fill some small custard 
moulds with this, and serve hot. 
Losster Soup-—Boil three fine young 
hen lobsters; when cold, split the tails 
take out the meat, crack the claws, an 
cut the meat into pieces; take out the 
coral and soft parts of the body, bruise 
part of the coral in a mortar, pick out 
the meat from the chines, bruise part of it 
with the coral, and with this make force- 
meat-balls, seasoned with mace or nut- 


meg, grated lemon-peel, anchovy, and | 


cayenne; pound these with the yolk of 
an egg. 
_ Have three quarts of veal stock ; bruise 
the small legs and the chine, and put 
them into the stock to boil for twenty 
minutes; then strain it, and to thicken 
it, take the fresh coral and bruise it in 
a mortar with a little butter and flour, 
rub it through a sieve, and put it to the 
soup with the meat of the lobsters and 
the rernaining coral; let it simmer very 
gently for ten minutes; do not let it boil, 
or its fine red colour will immediately 
fade; pour it intoa-tureen, add the juice 
of a lemon, and a little essence of an- 
chovy..: 
_ Lossters, to Sfew.—Put the lobster 
into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, but- 
ter, suet, and nutmeg; stew it rather 
dry, and then take it upand lay it ina 
dish; pour butter over it, and garnish 
with slices of lemon. 

Losstrer, Stewed (a very high Relish). 
Pick the lobster from the shell, and 
put the coral into a dish that has a lamp, 


( 522 ) 


or walnut catsup, a small quantity : 
| salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port; 
stew the lobster, cut into bits, in the 
| gravy as above. 





MAC 


and rub it down with a bit of butter, two 
spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one thes 


+ 


M. 


MACARONI.*—Put a piece of butter, 
half a pound of macaroni, an onion stuck 
with two cloves, and a little salt into 
hot water, boil them for three quarters 
ofan hour, and then, if the macaroni is 
flexible, take it out and drain it well. 
Put it into another saucepan with two 
ounces of butter, three of grated Parmie- 
san cheese, four of Gruyere, also grated, 
a little pepper and nutmeg; toss up the 
whole together, adding two or three 
spoonsful of cream; and when done, put 
iton a dish, and serve it very hot. 

Macaroni, dressed Sweet.—Boil two 
ounces of macaroni ina pint of milk, with 
a bit of lemon-peel, and a good bit of 
cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size without breaking, Lay 
them on a custard-dish, and pour a ¢us- 
tard over them hot. Serve colde” 

Macanont, au Gratin.* — Lay fried, 
bread pretty closely round a dish, boil 
your macaroni in the usual way, and 
pour it into the dish ; smooth it all over, 
and strew bread-crumbs on it, then a 
pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; drop a little melted butter on it, 
and colour it with a salamander. j 
Macaroni @ la Napolitaine.*—Boil 


| two pounds of macaroni fur halfan hour, 


in salt and water; then put it into a cul- 
lender to drain. Take three quarters of 
a pound of Parmesan cheese grated ; put 
a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or 
tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni 

the cheese, and so on, alternately, till 
both are used up, making the Parmesan 
the top; pour over it some gravy, 
a Vétouffade ; melt half a pound of fresh 


‘butter, and put on the whole. Serve it 


very hot. 

Macaroni and Parmesan Cheese Sutp. 
—Take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, 
boil it till tender in a quart of veal stock 5 
then add three ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, a little pounded mace, five pints 
more of veal stock ; boil all together five 
minutes, and rub it through a tammy $ 
then boil it again for ten minutes, skim 
it, season it with salt and cayenne pep- 
per to the palate; and add a Maison with 
the yolks of four eggs, and some cream. 
Macaroni, Potage of.*—Take half a 
pound of macaroni, break it in small 





MAC 


pieces, boil and drain it, dress it in a 
consommé, similar to that for mock tur- 
tle soup; pour it into your tureen, and 
serve grated parmesan separately, ~~ 
Macaroni Pudding.—Take an ounce 
or two of the pipe sort of macaroni, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender ; 
put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, 
ut only one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a 
spoonful of almond 
of raisin wine; lay a nice paste round the 
edge of the dish, and put it in the oven 
to bake. 
If you choose you may putina layer 
of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam : 
in this case you must not put in the al- 
mond-water, or ratafia, you would other- 
‘wise add to flavour it. 

_ Macaroni (to Serve).—Simmer it in a 
little stock, with pounded mace and salt. 
When quite tender, take it out of the 
liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over ita 
good deal of cheese, then over that put 
bread grated very fine. Warm some but- 
ter without oiling, and pour it from a 
boat through a little earthen cullender all 
over the crumbs, then put the dish ina 
dutch oven to roast the cheese, and 
brown the bread of a fine colour. The 
‘bread should be in separate crumbs, and 
look light. 

Macaroni (fo Serve).—Wash it well, 
and simmer it in half milk, and half of 
veal or mutton stock, till the macaroni 
is tender; then take a spoonful of the 
Jiquor, put to it the yolk of an egg, beaten 
in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot 
to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it 
over the macaroni,and then grate fine old 
cheese all over it, andadd bits of butter; 
brown it nicely with the salamander. 

Macaroni Soup.—Boil a pound of the 
best macaroni in a quart of good stock 
till it is quite tender ; then take out half, 
and putitintoanother stewpan. To the 

_remainder add some more stock, and 
‘boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni 
through a fine sieve. Then put it to the 
two liquors, adding a pint cr more of 
boiling hot cream, the macaroni that was 
first taken out, and halfa pound of grated 
Farmesan cheese; make it hot, but do 
not let it boil; serve it with the crust of 
French roll, cut into small pieces. 

Macaroni Sfewed.—Boil a quarter of 
_a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till 
nearly done; then strain it, and add a 
gill of cream, two ounces of butter, a 
table-spoonful of the essence of ham, 
three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 
and a little cayenne pepper and salt; mix 

them over.a fire for five minutes, then 
put it on.a dish, strew grated Parmesan 


( 323 ) 


-water, and half a glass’ 


MAC 


cheese over it, smooth it over with a 
knife, and colour it with a very hot sala- 
mander. ; 

Macaroni, Timbale of.*—Take some 
puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into 
narrow bands; twist each into a kind of 
cord, which place round the insides of 
buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill eack 
mould with macaroni, cover the tops 
with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese 
(equal quantities of each); put the tim- 
bales into a warm oven, and bake them 
three quarters of an hour; then turn 
them on a dish, and serve. 

Macaroni Timbale of au Chasseur.*— 

Prepare the macaroni as for the time 
bale, putting filets of larks, dressed in 
espagnole travuillé, and a fumet of game, 
instead of the velouté and gravy. The 
rest of the operation is the same as fime- 
bale of macaroni. 

Macaroni Timbale of, 4 la Mariniére,* 
—Cut the filets of a middling sized sole, 
and fry them lightly in butter; blanch 
two carp roes, and take about a dozen 
very red cray-fish tails; prepare your 
macaroni as directed (see timbale of 
macaroni), with the addition of two 
spoonsful of échame! maigre, and four 
ounces of cray-fish butter, and only half 
the usual quantity of plain butter. When 
done, put abouta quarter of it in the ¢im- 
bale, and on it the two carp roes, half 
the cray-fish tails, and as many fine 
white mushrooms; cover these with a 
third of the macaroni, upon which lay 
the jilets of sole, the remainder of the 
tails, and six white mushrooms. Pour 
the rest of the macaroni on this, and 
finish as directed. See the recipe above- 
mentioned. 

Macanont Tourte au Zéphyr.—Scald 
about half a pound of macaroni; drain, 
and then boil it in some good stock ; 
when quite tender, add to it a proper 
quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, and 
veal cullis, put it into a towrte au zéphyr 
(see the article), and serve. 

MACAROONS.— Take a pound of 
sweet almonds blanched, and _ nicely 
pounded, add a little rose- water to pre- 
vent their oiling ; add a pound of sifted 
sugar, then whisk the whites of ten eggs 
to asolid froth, and add to the above; 
beat all together for some time. Have 
ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop the 
mixture over it separately, the size ofa 
shilling, or smaller ; sift over them a lit- 
tle sugar, and bake them. 

Macaroons Bitter Ice Cream.*—Take 
a quarter of a pound of bitter macaroonr, 
pound them, and having prepared the 
cream, eggs, and sugar, in the usual 
way (see zce cream) ; add the macaroon 


MAC 


- ‘powder, boil, strain, and finish, as therein 
pret cGs la aa 

Macaroons F’lled.*—Takesome sweet 
macaroon paste, and lay the cakes on 
wafer, quite round; when all are done, 
have a round stick (about an inch in dia- 
meter), and make a hollow in the centre 
of each; bake them as usual, till yellow, 
and crisp; then take them out, and put 
in the hollows preserved cherries, rasp- 
berries, or some jelly ; and instead of 
detaching the macaroons from the paper, 
cut it close round the edges. 

Macaroon (Filled) Tart of.*¥—Cement 
together as many sheets of wafer-paper 
as will be sufficient to cut a piece the 
size of a dish; spread over its surface 
sweet macaroon paste, about a quarter 
of an inch thick; on this place a border 
of almond-shaped macaroons round the 
edge ; then lay them in diagonal lines 
over the whole; cross these again, so as 
to form atreillis over the surface, taking 
care to make the points touch neatly; 
when the whole is covered, put it on 
a tin in a moderate oven, and bake 
it three quarters of an hour; then take it 
out, and garnish the spaces between the 
macaroons with various preserved fruits. 

Macaroons a la Portugaise.*—Take 
six ounces of potatoe flour, a pound of 
sweet almonds, a pound and a,quarter of 
sugar. and the whites of twelve eggs. 
Blanch and pound the almonds; beat 
the eggs toa snow, then mix them with 
the almonds, add afterwards the sugar 
and flour; beat the whole up well, and 
put the preparation into small paper 
cases, and bake them like other 
biscuits. 

Macaroons, Sweet.*—Blanch a pound 
of sweet almonds, throw them into cold 
water for a few minutes, lay them in a 
napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty 
four hours; at the end of that time, 
pound them, a handful at a time, adding 
occasionally some white of egg, till the 
whole is reduced to a fine paste; then 
take two pounds of the best lump-snyar, 
pound and sift it, then put it to the al- 
monds, with the grated rinds of two 
lemons; beat these ingredients together 
in the mortar, adding one at a time, as 
many eggs as you find necessary to 
moisten the paste, which should ke thin, 
but not too much so, as in that case it 
would run ; your paste being ready, take 
out a little in a spoon, and lay the maca- 
roons on sheets of white paper either 
round or oval, as you please; lay them 
at least an inch apart, because they 
spread in baking, and if put nearer would 
touch. The whole of your paste being 
used, place the sheets of paper on tins 


( 324) 


MAC 


in a moderate oven for three quarters of 
an hour, ae 
This kind of cake requires great care 
and attention; it will be well therefore 
to take notice of the following rules: 
1. To mind that the almonds are per- 
fectly dry before you begin to pound 
them. 2. Take great care that not a 
particle of the yolk is mixed with the 
white of egg, which would entirely spoil 
the colour of the macaroons, and prevent 
their rising in the oven; to ayoid this, 
open each separately, and if perfectly 
fresh, divide the yolk and white with great 
care. 3, The oven must be no more than 
moderately heated, nothing being more 
liable to burn than almonds and sugar ; 
by the Jeast negligenee in this respect, 
the surface would be burned, whilst the 
inside would remain unbaked. The best 
method to obviate any mischief of this 
sort :— put two or three macaroons into 
the oven to try it; leave them in the 
usual time; and if, when you take them 
out, they are of a clear yellow, the oven 
is properly heated, and the whole of the . 
macaroons may then be put in. 
~Macaroons (Spiced).*—Take a pound 
of sweet almonds, and two pounds of 
sifted sugar; make your paste as usual}, 
to which adda spoonful of powdered cin- 
namon, six or eight cloves, also pounded, 
some preserved lemon and orange-peel 
(of each a spoonful), chopped small, and 
the grated rind of two lemons; mix 
them all together in the mortar, and 
then lay your macaroons as usual, and 
bake them with equal care. . 
Macaroons (Spiced) Tart of.* — Join 
together as many sheets of wafer- paper 
with water as you may judge necessary, 
to cut it to the size of a dish; lay itona 
sheet of white paper, cover it with the 
spiced macaroon paste, about an inch 
thick 5 put it in the oven, and bake it of 
a clear brown. In the mean while, boil 
@ quarter of a pound or six ounces of 
sugar with some orange-flower water 
until, on dipping the skimmer into, an 
shaking it in the air, the sugar flies off 
in small bottle-shaped pieces; as soon 
as the tart is baked, pour the sugar over 
it pretty thickly; replace it in the 6ven 
to dry the sugar, which should re- 
semble icing; in a few minutes take it 
out and lay it in a large dish. 
MACEDOINE.*—Take as many ¢ar- 
rots and turnips as you think necessary. 
cut them into pieces, blanch and boil 
them in a little consommé ; reduce them 
toa jelly. Take the following vegetables, 
young peas and beans, French beans, 
cut into lozenges, cauliflowers, artichoke 
bottoms, cucuinbers, asparagus heads, 





MAC 


blanch all these separately, and a quar- 
ter of an hour before dinner, make them 
quite hot, and then drain them on a 
cloth; in the mean time, reduce some 
allemande, add to it the jelly of roots, 
keep them boiling, put in the roots and 
vegetables, with a little sugar and fresh 
butter; stir them together uutil the 
Sauce adheres to the vegetables. ‘The 
macédoine is generally used to garnish 
the removes of soups. 

Macepoine @ la Béchamelle.*—Pre- 
pare carrots, turnips, small onions, pease, 
asparagus, bread, and French beans, 
artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. &c., 
in the same manner as the macédotne ; 
when they are all done in their appro- 
priate seasoning, drain them very dry, 
‘and put them into a saucepan, and pour 
on them a reduced Jbéchamel; shake 
them all up together, that the sauce may 
be thoroughly incorporated with the 
Sees keep it hot, but do not let it 

oil. 

Macepoine of Fruit.* — The macé- 
‘ doine is an ornamental dish, composed 
of transparent jelly, with various fruits 
enclosed in it; for this purpose it should 
be done as follows: Havea dome-shaped 
mould six inches and a half in diameter, 
and four in height, the sides fluted; the 
smaller mould must be ofa similar form, 
but only four inches and a half in dia- 
meter, and two and three quarters high ; 
to this latter have four handles, bent at 
the end, to hang it exactly in: the centre 
‘of the larger mould. Prepare a straw- 
berry transparent jelly, place the larger 
mould as straight as possible in pounded 
fice, hang the small one in it, and pour 
the jelly into the former; whilst it is 
congealing, pick about twenty fine white 
strawberries, the same number of very 
red ones, the same of white raspberries, 
a dozen bunches of red, and the same of 
white currants; wash all these well, but 
‘touch them as little as possible, that 
they may not lose their freshness 5 when 
the jelly is perfectly set, pour some hot 
water into the small mould which will 
enable you to remove it with ease; raise 
it with great care, so that the space may 
be found without the slightest flaw ; 
then place on the jelly (in the centre of 
this space) two bunches of white currants, 
surround these with a ring of white 
strawberries, and the latter with a crown 
or ring of white raspberries; pour over 
very carefully two or three spoonsful of 
the jelly, and when that is congealed, 
proceed in the same way with the red 
currants, strawberries, and raspberries, 
then the jelly, and so on alternately, 
until all the fruit is used ; fill the mould 


. ( 325 ) 
small onions, and white mushrooms; | 


MAC 


with jelly ; as soon as the whole is con- 
gealed, dip your mould into a large 
saucepan of hot water, and then turn it 
into a dish instantly. The macédoine 
may be garnished in this manner with 
any kind of fruit you think proper. It 
may also be filled with two jellies as 
follows: white lemon jelly in the large 
mould, and finished with the same jelly, 
tinged with either rose-colour or yellow}; 
indeed the moulds may be varied in any 
way your fancy may dictate. 

MACKEREL, to Choose.— Their gills 
should be of a fine red, their eyes full, 
and the whole fish stiff and bright; if 
the gills are of a faint colour, the fish 
limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. 
They are in season in May and June. 

Mackereu Bozled.—Boil them in salt 
and water, with a very little vinegar. 
Serve with fennel sauce and coddied 
gooseberries. 

Mackerer with Black Butter.*— The 
mackerel for this dish should be dressed 
according to the directions for mackerel 
grillé; dish them; then put _a piece of 
butter into a frying: pan, and when it is 
quite hot, fry some parsley in it, and 
pour them over the fish; heat up some 
vinegar, and pour that over also. 

Mackeret Broiled or Fried.— They 
may be broiled or fried, and are ex- 
tremely good either way, stuffed with 
crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, le- 
mon-peel grated, pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg, mixed with yolk of egg; anchovy 
sauce and fennel sauce. 

Mackeret en Cazlles — Cut two or 
three mackerel, each into three pieces, 
give them a few turns over the fire in 
butter, with parsley, shalots, mush- 
rooms, pepper and salt, then wrap each 
piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon 
and some of the seasoning; lay them on 
a baking dish, pour the remainder of the 
seasoning over, put them in the oven; 
when nearly done, take them out, cover 
them with bread crumbs; replace the 
dish to finish the baking. Serve with 
wine sauce, 

Mackexet Collared. — They may be 
done in the same manner as eels are 
done, only tke sage should be omitted, 
and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, an 
lemon-peel, substituted in its place. 

MAckEREL en Compote.*—Prepare the 
mackerel, cut off the tails, and put them 
into a smali saucepan well buttered, with 
any common fish you. may have, and 
anchovy and white wine; braise them 
in this; when done, serve them with 
their own liquor. 

Mackeret, to Dry.— They must be 
very fresh. Gut and wash them very 
siacal ay off their heads, split them 


MAC 


down the back, and lay them quite flat ; 
hang them by their tails to drain; they 
should be hung in a very cool place. 
Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan; 
sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, 
Jay them in the pan, belly to belly, and 
back to back; let them lie in the salt 


twelve or fourteen hours, then wash the | 
salt off clean, and hang them up to drain | 
for half an hour, pepper the insides a 
little, and lay them to dry on stones laid 
aslant towards the sun}; take care never. 
to let them be out when the sun is not 
upon them, nor tiil the dews are dis-— 


persed, as the stones they are-laid upon 
should be warm anddry. They will be 
perfectly cured in a week; hang them 
up by their tails, putting their insides 
together, in a dry place, but not in any 
smoke. 

They should be either fried in boiling 
oil, or broiled on or before a very clear 
fire, and basted with oil on a feather. 
No sauce will be required, for if they are 
good, they will be very moist and mel- 
low; ifthey should be dry, you may serve 
with a little melted butter and parsley, 
or crimped parsley. 

Macxere., Entrée of. — Split your 
mackerel down the back, season with 
pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel 
inthem. HGroil them gently, and when 
ready to serve, take out the fennel, and 
‘put in its place a mixture, made with 
fresh butter, chopped parsley, green 
onions, pepper and salt; add plenty of 
lemon-juice. ; 

Mackeret (Fillets of) Sauté.—Cut the 
fillets the whole length of the fish, take 
‘off the skin, trim and put them into a 
tossing-pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, 
and scallions shred small; pour a little 
melted butter over, and set them on the 
fire, moving the pieces about, lest they 
should adhere to the pan, turn them 
very carefully, and do the other side. 
Take a good bit of butter, a ladleful of 
velouté, the yolks of three eggs, the juice 
of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, a ravi- 
gotte chopped small ; stir it over the fire 
(but without boiling) till the right con- 
sistence, then pour it over the fillets. 

MAckEneE (fillets of ) Sauté a U Itali- 
enne.*—The fillets being taken off, cut 
thern in two, taking oif the skin, and put 
them into a cutlet pan (previously toss 
them in egg, and rub over with bread 
crumbs), with clarified butter, a little 
water, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
sprinkle of salt ; sawté them over a mode- 
rate fire, and when done, put them be- 
tween two plates, to drain the liquor 


from them; place them on the dish in 


the form of a star, and pour over them 
some good Italienne sauce. 


( 326 ) 





MAC 


Macxkeret (Fillets of) to be served 
Cold.—Sauté and dish the fillets, the 
same as the fillets sauté ad ?’Italienne, 
but let them stand till cold, and before 
they are wanted, pour aver them a re- 
moulude sauce, or they may be served in 
a salad, the same as salmon. iy 

Mackeret a la Flamande.*—Choose 
three good sized and very fresh mackerel, 
take out the entrails through the gills, 
tie up the head, cut off the end of the 
tail, but do notopen the back. Work up 
some shalots, parsley, and scallions 
(chopped very small), with a piece of 
butter, add salt, pepper, and lemon- 
juice, stuff the body of the fish, and roll 
each in a sheet of buttered paper, tie the 
two ends tight, rub the paper with oil, 
and broil them for three quarters of an 
hour over a very clear fre. When done 
take them out of the paper, dish, an 
pour over them the butter contained in 
the cases and lemon-juice. 

MackEREL en Fricandeaux.—Take the 
skin from one side of the mackerel, lard, 
and put the fish intoa braising pan, wil 
a few slices of veal, ham, equal quantities 
of broth and white wine (let the veal be 
nearly done before you put in the mack- 
erel); setthe pan on a slow fire, and in 
a few minutes, adda few mushrooms, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs; when the fish 
are sufficiently done take them out, strain 
and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with 
which do the larded side; put a little 
butter to the remainder, and serve it 
under the fish. 

Mackere. Fréed.—Cut your mackerel, 
each into eight pieces, which soak Tor 
half an hour in lemon-juice, pepper, and 
salt; wipe them perfectly dry, dip each 
piece in wine batter, and fry them dry; 
serve with fried parsley. 

Mackerel, the German way.— Split 
them down the back, and season them 
with pepper and salt; broil them, and 
serve with the following sauce ; pick and 
wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, 
and green onions; but use only a small 
quantity of each. Boil them tender in a 
little veal stock ; then chop them up, and 
add to them some fresh butter, the liquor 
they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, 
the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne 
pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it 
with flour, and serve in a sauce boat. 

Mackeret Glazed.*—Clean and dry 
the fish as usual, lard them with streaked 
bacon, put them into a stewpan, with two 
slices of veal, sweet herbs, pour some 
court bouillon on them ; stew them 3:when 
done, take them out, reduce the liquor, 
and glaze your fish with it. 

MackereL Grillé.* — Clean, empty, 
and wipe your fish as usual; split them 


r 





MAC 


up the back, rub them with a little but- 
ter; mix some bread-crumbs and shred 
parsiey, cover the mackerel with this, 
and broil them; when of a nice colour 
serve them with the following sauce :— 


Put some shred parsley, a small quan- | 


tity of oil, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice 
into melted butter; stir them up toge- 
ther, and make it quite hot. 

Mackeret @ I’ Italienne.* — Prepare 
your mackerel the same as for la Fla- 
mande ; put. them into a stewpan with 
half a bottle of white wine, some slices of 
onions, and _ carrots, parsley, half a 

ay-leaf, and salt to the taste; stew 
them in this till done; then drain and 
serve them with a white Jtalienne. 

Mackeren @ la Maitre d’ Hétel.*— 

hree mackerel are quite sufficient for 
this dish; take out the entrails, and 
laving wiped the fish with a wet cloth, 
split it open along the back, from head 
to tail ; lay themin a deep dish with salt, 
whole pepper, scallions, and parsley; 
pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them 
tosoak them well. Half an hour before 
dinner, place them on agridiron over a 
gentle fire, and broil them on both sides. 
Put a piece of butter into a saucepan 
with a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley 
and scallions, shred small, pepper, and 
salt; mix them well, and then adda 
glass of water and the juice of a lemon; 
set this over the fire, stirring till it boils, 
when it may be poured over the mackerel. 

Macxenre., Pickled. — Clean and di- 
vide them ; then cut each side into three, 
or, leaving them undivided, cut each side 
into five or six pieces. Tw six large 
mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, 
two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, 
anda handful of salt, all in the finest 
powder; mix ail together, and make 
holes in each bit of fish, and put the 
seasoning into them; rub each piece of 
fish with some of the seasoning; then fry 
them brown in oil; let them stand till 
cold, then put them into a stone jar, and 
cover with vinegar; if you intend to keep 
them for some time, pour oil on the top 
ofthe jars. In this manner they may be 
preserved for months. 

MackereL, Potted.—They are potted 
in the same manner as eels. 

Mackeret, Roasted.* — Soak three 
mackerel in a marinade of oil, with 
scallions, parsley, and shalots, all chop- 
ped; season it with salt and pepper; 
when they have laid in this for half an 
hour, fasten the mackerel toa spit, roast 
them before a small fire, basting with 
melted butter ; just before they are done, 
strew bread-crumbs over; finish and 
serve them withany fish-sauce youplease. 

Macxeret (soft Roes of ) en Caisses.— 


. 


( 327 ) 


MAG 


Take the soft roes from half a dozen 
broiled mackerel, put them into paper- 
cases with shred parsley, raspings, but- 
ter, salt, and pepper. Bake them, and 
when done, serve them with mleon- 
juice. 

MackeEret (sofé Roes of) Petits-pités. 
—Take the soft roes from four mackerel; 
put them intoa pan with clarified butter, 
sufficient to cover them; then put the 
pan into an oven; when done, take them 
out, drain, and cut them into dice, 
which put into petits-pdtés; keep them 
hot, and just before they are sent to table 
put into each some of the following sauce: 
Reduce two spoonsful of velowté and one 
of consommé, then adda little butter and 
thick cream, season with pepper and 
salt, and pour it in quite hot. ; 

Mackere., Soused.—Thoroughly wash 
and clean them; take out the roes, boil 
them in salt and water ; when they are 
done, take them out, and lay them in a 
deep dish; pour away half the liquor 
they were boiled in, and add to the rest 
of the liquor as much vinegar as will 
cover them, with two or three bay-leaves. 
They should lie twe or three days before 
they are eaten. 

MADELAINES.*—Take nine ounces 
of powder-sugar, eight of flour, the yolks 
of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful 
of brandy, and a grain of salt; put these 
into a saucepan, stirring continually, 
until the paste thickens; after which, 
stir only one minute; clarify ten ounces 
of good fresh butter, with which, butter 
about two and thirty madelaine moulds, 
pour the remainder of the butter into 
your preparation; set it on a gentle 
stove, stir till it begins to become liquid, 
take it off before it has time to get too 
hot, put a little of this into each mould, 
and bake them in a moderate oven. 

MADELAINES en Surprise.* —Make your 
madelaines in the usual way; when cold, 
cut a thin slicefrom the bottom, take out 
nearly all the inside; pound four ounces 
of blanched filberts, mix them with eight 
spoonsful of apricot marmalade, which 
mixture put inte the madelaines, and 
place the slice taken from the bottom, 
and serve them. 

MAGNONNAISE @. la Ravigotie.*— 
Take of chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, 
each a handful, and a little czboulette, 
and having picked and washed, scald 
them for five or six minutes in boiling 
water with a little salt in it; then let 
them cool, drain and squeeze out all the 
water, and pound them well, moistening 
with a spoonful of the magnonnaise (see 
Magnonnaise, White); strain this through 
a silk sieve, and mix it with a magnon- 
ndise oo as above; ‘if it be not 


MAL 


sufficiently green, add asmall quantity of 
essence of spinach. 

Maenonnalse, White.* — Put into a 
pan the yolks of two eggs, a geod pinch 
of salt, and the quarter of a dessert- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar; take a 
wooden spoon, stir them up quickly, and 
when it begins to thicken, add half a 
dessert-spoonful of the best olive oil; as 
the sauce continues to thicken, put ina 
few drops of vinegar, then oil, and soon, 
still rapidly stirring and rubbing the 
spoon against the sides of the pan. In 

roportion as the sauce gains consistence, 
increase, by degrees, the quantity of vil 
and vinegar, and add alittle aspic-jelly ; 
do not cease stirring until you have thus 
amalgamated, two glasses of oil, halfa 
glass of aspic-jelly, and, as much vine- 
gar as you find necessary to render the 
sauce palatable; when done, it should 
be of the consistence of thick cream, and 
equally smooth; keep it ina cool place 
till you want to use it. 

AIDS.—They should hang up for 
one day, at least. You may either broil 
or fry them. If they are of a tolerable 
size, you may boil the middle part, and 
fry the fins. They should be dipped in 
egg, and covered with bread-crumbs. 

MAITRE D’HOTEL, Cold.*—Puta 
quarter ofa pound of butter into a sauce- 
pan, with some parsley and_ shalots 
minced small, salt, whole pepper, an 
lemon-juice; mix the whole together 
with a wooden spoon. Pour the MaZtre 
d’ Hétel either over, under, or into what- 
ever meat or fish you intend to serve. 

‘* MAITRE D’HOTEL, Liée.* — Put 
into a saucepan a quarter ofa pound of 
butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley, 
and seallions, chopped small, salt, whole 
pepper, and two ladlesful of water ; set 
it on the fire only just as it is wanted ; 
stir it like a white sauce; if it be too 
thick, putin a little lemon-juice and water. 

This sauce should be of the same con- 
sistence as White Sauce. 

MALLOWS, Syrup of.*“—Take halfa 
pound of mallows root, and having 
scraped and washed it well, cut it into 
small pieces, which set on the fire with 
three pints of water; when sufficiently 
boiled, the water will be glutinous, 
strain off the decoction, and pour into it 
four pounds of sugar; clarify it in the 
same manner as capillaire; boil it to 
lissé, runit througha jelly-bag, and when 
cold, bottle it. 

MALT Vinegar.*—In Germany, this 
vinegar is made with barley and wheat 
malt, of both of which there are two 
sorts, one dried in an oven or kiln, the 
other dried in the open air; of the latter 
the largest quantity is generally used. 


( 328 ) 


MAR 


Put ten gallons of boiling water into a 
large tub, stir till it cools a little; then 
add your malt (two thirds barley, and 
one third wheat) a little at a time, stir- 
ring it with a stick until thoroughly 
mixed with the water; cover the tub. 
Boil some more water, take the mash 
from the bottom of the large tub, put it 
into a smaller one, and place this within 
a larger one, so that there may be two 
inches space between the bottoms of 
each tub; set another small tub on the 
top; this latter should have holes pierced 
in it, through which pour the boiling 
water.on the mash, beneath lay straw 
over, and leave it for an hour and a half; 
after that time, draw off the water by 
means of a cock placed between the two 
tubs; then pour fresh boiling water over 
the malt, let it stand again, and repeat 
this operation as many times as -you 
think necessary; the precise number 
must be regulated according to the in- 
tended strength of the vinegar. Pour 
the liquor into casks, and when cold and 
settled, put it intoa large barrel witha 
head to it; add some beer-lees, cover 
and leave it for ten hours to ferment}; as 
soon as it is clear, pour it into a cask, 
previously washed with strong vinegar. 
put toit some yeast; skim it well, an 
you will then have vinegar of the best 
quality. 

MARASCHINO.* — Take sixteen 
pounds of fine sharp cherries, stone and 
take off the stalks; put them into five 
quarts of brandy to infuse, covered close 
for three days, then distil the infusion ; 
distil also a pound of cherry-leaves in 
six quarts of filtered river water, from 
which you will obtain about a gallon}; 
dissolve in this four ponnds and a half 
of fine sugar ; add it to the liqueur, with 
two pints and a half of kirschenwasser, 
an ounce and four drachms of spirits of 
rose, the same of orange-flowers, and 
three drachms of spirits of jessamine; 
mix them altogether, run:it through 
a Jjelly-bag, and bottle it; cork them 
well, ‘ 


Marascuino, Conserve of.*—Pound « — 


and sift some of the best lump. sugar, mix 
it ina ehina basin with spirit of maras- 
chino, until it is of the consistence of 
pastil paste; then put it into a skillet 
over the fire, and heat it gently, stirring 
it constantly (but without letting it boil), 
till very liquid, when it may be poured 
into funnel-shaped tin moulds; put 
these moulds on iron plates, and dry the 
conserve ina stove. : ; 

Marascuino, Fromage Bavarois.* — 
Boil a pint of double cream, to which 
add halfa pound of sugar and six drachms 
of clarified isinglass; run it through a 


? 








MAR 


sieve, and p it on ice; the moment 
it begins to congeal, pour in, by degrees, 
half a glass of maraschino; then stir in 
the whipped cream, ard finish as usual. 
_ Marascuino Ice Cream.*—Take two 
(eh of cream, twelve eggs, a pound of 

ouble-refined sugar, and three glasses of 
true maraschino; put the cream on to 
boil, and in the mean time whisk the 
whites of the eggs to a firm snow, then 
pour in eight yolks, and the sugar pound- 
ed and sifted, stir them together lightly, 
and then add by degrees the boiling 
cream, whipping continually; set it on 
the fire, and do not cease whipping until 
it has boiled up three or four times; pour 
it through a sieve into a basin, stirring a 
little to enable it to run more freely; 
when cold put it into the sorbetiére with 
the maraschino ; cover it instantly, and 
ice it as usual. 

Marascurno, Soufles, Francais of.*— 
Your preparation being made as usua 
(see Souflés Francais), when the whites 
of eggs are put in, add halfa glass of 
maraschino. 

MARCH PANE.*—Take four pounds 
of sweet almonds, throw them into boil- 
ing water, let them lay till the skin 
loosens, then put them into cold water, 
after a few minutes blanch and throw 
them again into cold water to wash them 
thoroughly. When dry, pound them 
(a handful at a time) to a very fine paste, 
moistening each handful with two spoons- 
ful of water ; the whole quantity of al- 
monds being pounded, put the paste into 
a large preserving pan, with four pounds 
of the best lump sugar finely pounded 
and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, 
stir and work them up together with a 
large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the 
bottom: be very careful that none of the 
paste adheres to the pan ; the consequence 
of such neglect would be, that the march- 
pane would be spotted with yellow, and 
would smeli unpleasantly. Whilst work- 
ing it up, the paste, which when put in 
was tolerably firm, will become rather 
liquid, and a great deal of vapour may 
be observed ; the first is caused by the 
sugar dissolved by the heat and moisture, 
the second by the evaporation .of the 
water. Continue to stir and-work it up 
in this manner without ceasing for two: 
hours, and if at the end of that time, you 
can touch the paste without its adhering 
to your fingers, it is sufficiently dried ; 
in which case remove it all'to one side of 
the pan, clean the bottom and side of 
the other, sprinkle it well with flour 
then put the paste to that part, clean and 
sprinkle that side also; then take the 
pan by both ears and move it round and 
round, so that the paste may all unite 


( 329 ) 


MAR 


together: as soon as it has done so, put 
it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to 
use it immediately, on a well floured 
table. This paste, if the almonds be 
well pounded and then thoroughly dried, 
will keep good for six months; if these 
two precautions are not properly attend- 
ed to, it will become sour in ten days. 
Marcupane Royal.*—Take a pound of 
sweet almonds, blanch and throw them 
into cold water, drain and pound them, 
moistening with orange-flower and plain 
water, but take care not to put too much 
at.once. The almonds being reduced to 
a paste, put them into a preserving pan 
with half a pound of powder sugar, set 
the pan on a moderate fire to dry the 
paste, which will be sufficiently so if, when 
you touch it, it no longer sticks to your 
finger, then take it out and place it ona 
plate or wafer paper, previously sprinkled 
with sugar: as soon as it is cold cut it 
in pieces, which roll in your hand to the 
size of your little finger ; form them into 
rings, and lay them on iron gratings, 
glaze and put them intoa brisk oven to 
colour. The above paste may also be 
employed as follows: roll it out and cut 
it in half, spread over one piece apricot 
marmalade, or any other preserve you 
please, cover it with the other piece, cut 
it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- 
ing to your fancy, lay them on the grating 
as above, glaze and colour them in a 
quick oven. 
MARIGOLDS, Conserve of.—Take 
four ounces of marigo]d-flowers, conserve 
of hyacinth and hermes, of each four 
drachins, the powder of pearl two ounces, 
and as much syrup of citron as_ will 
make them into a conserve, mixing and 
bruising them together with refined 


sugar. 
' MARINADE Cutte.*—Cut three car- 
rots and: four onions in slices, put them 
into a stew- pan with some butter, two 
bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves ; 
set these on the fire ; when the carrots 
and onions are done, add some parsley 
and scallions, a dessert spoonfulof flour, 
a glass of vinegar, two of stock, salt, and 
pepper. Simmer the marinade for three 
quarters of an hour, then strain it through 
a horse-hair sieve, and set it by for use. 

MARJORAM Conserve.—Take the 
tops and tenderest part of sweet marjo- 
ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar 
or bowl; take double its weight of fine 
sugar, boil it with marjoram-water till 
itis as thick as syrup, then put in your 
beaten marjoram. 

Margsoram, Essence of.—Take some 
marjoram, pick off the leaves and lay 
them to dry in a warm place for about 
a as of hours, then take a large 


MAR 


mouthed bottle, and put the leaves into 
it; let the bottle be filled with them, and 
pour upon them wine, brandy, proof- 
spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for 
fourteen days. ; 

Marsoram Sweet, to preserve.—Beat 
up very well the white of an egg, then 
beat very fine and sift some double-re- 
fined sugar; take some marjoram and 
rub iton a glass that is quite clean, and 
lay it in the form of the glass; so do it 
with the egg, then sear it with the sugar 
on it, and lay it on paper to dry. 

MARMALADE.*—Marmalade may 
be composed ofalmost any fruits; the best, 
however, for this purpose are, apricots, 
peaches, oranges, quinces, egg-plums, ap- 
ples, &c. They are usually made by boil- 
ing the fruit and sugar together to a kind 
of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst 
on the fire: itiskept in pots, which must 
not be covered till the marmalade is 
quite cold. The proportion of sugar is 
half a pound to each pound of*friit. 

Marmarape, Transparent. — Take 
some very pale Seville oranges, and cut 
them into quarters, take out the pulp, 
put it into a bason and take out all the 
skin and seeds; put the peels into alittle 
salt and water, and leave them to soak in 
it all night, then boil them in a good 
quantity of spring water till they are 
tender; cut them in extremely thin 
slices and add them to the pulps. To 
every pound of the marmalade, put a 
pound and a half of double-refined sugar 
finely sifted, and boil them tegether 
gently for twenty minutes. If it is not 
sufficiently clear, boil or simmer it for 
five or six minutes longer, keep stirring 
it gently all the time, and take great care 
you do not break the slices. When cold, 
put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, 
and tie them down closely with brandy 


Perey 

ARROW Bones.—Chop the bones 
at each end so as to stand steady, then 
wash them clean, saw them in halves, 
cover the top with a flovred cloth: boil 
them, and serve with dry toast. 


Marrow Cream.*—Pound an ounce of 


sweet almonds with a little milk, press 
out the milk from the almonds, which 
use whilst pounding two ounces of beef- 
marrow, and some lemon-peel ; beat up 
the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and 
add them to the marrow; mix the whole 
with a quart of good milk, strain it into 
a saucepan, set it on the fire, stirring 
constantly till it thickens, then pour it 
into small cups or moulds, and put them 
in a cool place, and turn them out when 
to be sent to table. 
Marrow wth Eggs.—Take some beef- 
marrow, pound it well with eggs boiled 







MAR 


hard, season them with er, salt, nut- 
meg, and sweet herbs; faen well mixed 
roll it up into little balls, wrap each in 
ru paste, dip them in batter, and. fry 
them. 


Marrow Fritters.*—Boil some beef-, 
marrow with a glass of stock till reduced 
to a thin paste, which pour into flat . 


saucers to about the thickness of a crown 
piece; when cool turn them out, dip each 
into a batter made of cream-cheese, 
pounded with a little milk, two bandsful 
of flour and an egg; fry these fritters, 
either in oil, lard, or butter ; whichever 
you use, however, should be boiling. 
Marrow Pasties.—Take the marrow 
from three marrow-bonegs, a little thyme, 
winter savory, and sweet marjoram, the 
yolks of three eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, a quarter ofa pound of currants, 
a littlerose-waterandsome nutmeg ; work 
all these together, and put them into a 
pasty of puff-paste, and fry them in lard. 
Marrow Pasties.—Shred some apples 
with some marrow, add a little sugar to 
them, make them up in puff paste, and 
fry them in clarified butter ; when fried 
strew some sugar over them, and serve. 
Marrow, Patties of.* — Blanch and 
pound four ounces of sweet almonds, 
moistening them with orange-flower- 
water ; when reduced to a paste, mix it 
with a handful of flour, a drop of warm 
water, and the yolks of three eggs ; with 
this line a number of shallow moulds, 
dorez and bake them in a slow oven. 
When done, take them out and put in 
each a little cream made with beef-mar- 
row, lemon-peel, and cream, not laid 
on thicker than a crown piece; cover it 
with a spoonful of white of egg whipped 
to a snow ; strew sifted sugar over, and 
serve them very hot. , 
Marrow Pudditig.—Grate the crumb 
of a French roll age to ita pintof cream, 
a pound of marrow sliced, four eggs, 
sugar and nutmeg, according to taste, 
two ounces of citron sliced ; three-quar- 
ters of an hour will be sufficient to bake 
it ; you may add currants, if you think 
proper. 
Marrow Pudding.—Boil with a quart 
of new milk, cinnamon and lemon-peel, 
and strain it to half a pound of beef- 
marrow finely chopped, a few currants 
washed and picked, some slices of citron 
and orange-peel candied, a little grated. 
nutmeg. brandy, syrup of cloves, a table 
spoonful of each, and-half a pound of 
Naples biscuits. When the mixture is 
cold, add eight eggs beat up, omittin 
five of the whites, and bake it ina dis 
with puff-paste round it. ; 
Marrow Pudding.*—Soak beef-mar- 
row in cold water for twelve hours, then 





ae eee 


= Site 





MAR 


clear awayall the pellicles,and beatit with 
a wooden spoon ina little orange-flower 
water till of the consistence of thick 
cream, Take some double cream, mix 
the marrow with it, adda little mace, 
nutmeg and cinnamon, and boil it. 
Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet 
almonds, moistening them with cream, 

ress the milk from them, and mix with 
it the whites of three eggs, well whipped, 
the yolks of ten ; beat the whole well, 
and then put to it the marrow cream, 
half a pound of powder sugar, a little 
salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted 
flour to make it of the proper consistence ; 
tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into 
boiling water. When done, serve it with 
melted butter, orange-flower-water, and 
white wine. 

Marrow Sausages.* — Mince equal 
quantities of beef-marrow, fresh pork, 
and noix of veal; season the mixture 
well; add sweet herbs, if you like; tie 
them up in sheep’s cauls, and. make 
your sausages either flat, oval, or round, 


_according to your taste. 


Marrow Toasts.*—Make a farce with 
some breast of towl pounded with herbs, 
and mixed with yoiks of eggs and veal 
gravy ; boil some beef marrow in stock, 


let it cool, and then cut it in pieces: | 


spread layers of farce on some slices of 
fried bread, place the pieces of marrow 
on it (but not near enough to touch each 
other) cover them with another layer of 
farce; strew bread crumbs over, and 
colour them in the Dutch oven. 
Marrow, Tourte of.*—Takea quarter 
of a pound of beef-marrow, clear away 
all bones and fibres, blanch it in a little 
water; bruise and mix it with some 
Srangipane, and finish the tourte in the 
same manner as fourte of frangipane. 
Marrow Tumblers.—Set on the fire 
a pint of cream, three eggs, and some 
powder-sugar ; let them boil for half an 
hour, stirring constantly, then add some 
beef-marrow shred very simall, a few 


‘pourded macaroons,a little grated Jemon- 
peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the; 


whites of four whisked toa froth, anda 
few drops of orange-flower water, still 
stirring till all is well mixed; then have 
ready some small plain moulds about an 
inch and half deep, butter them well, put 
a spoonful of cream in each, and bake 
them: serve either plain or with non- 
pareils. The same preparation may also 
‘be served as a tourte, but it must not be 
covered ; when baked, strew powder- 
sugar over, and glaze with the salaman- 


der. 
MARSEILLES, or Ginger.*—Take a 


pound and a half of double-refined sugar, 
and boil it to fort souflé, add to it an 


~ 


( 331 ) 


MAT 


ounce of ginger in powder, remove the 
pan from the fire, and with a round stick 
(like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, 
inclining the stick towards the sides of 
the pan, then with a spoon take the sugar 
that sticks to the edges and put it 
amongst the liquid, then work it up 
again with the stick, remoye the solid 
sugar as before, and repeat this operation 
four times, when it will have become tole- 
rably thick and firm ; pour it into Peper 
cases, about half an inch thick, and with 
a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, 
lozenges of what size you please ; after- 
wards, with the point of a knife, mark 
some of these deeper than the others ; 
when quite cold, take them out of the 
papers, and separate them, where the 
lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if 
preserved in a warm or dry piace, will 
keep good for a long time. : ' 

MarseEIutes Spiced.*—Take a pound 
and a half of fine sugar, boil it to cassé ; 
take a quarter of preserved orange-peel, 
the same of candied lemon-peel, (or, if 
you like it better, two ounces of blanched 
pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and 
put them with half an ounce of cloves, 
the same of cinnamon (both pounded) 
into the sugar, stir them in gently, con- 
tinue to boil your syrup to forfe plume ; 
then beat it up, pour it into cases, and 
finish as the Marseziles. 

MATELOTE au Bouillon.* — Take 
the wings of turkey-poults, pheasants, or 
partridges, with sume pieces of wild rab- 
bits, lamb, and slices of bacon; put them 
into a stewpan with equal quantities of 
stock and champagne, half a glass of 
olive-oil, salt, pepper, and garlic; cover 
the pan close, and stew till reduced to 
court bouillon ; then lay the pieces on a 
dish, and pour the sauce over them. If 
it should be too thick, add a glass of con- 
sommé. ‘ 

Mare ore of Butcher’s Meat.*—Take 
beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large 
slice of each, and a small one of leg of 
lamb; cut them in.small pieces, which 
put into a saucepan with equal quantities 
of stock and champaign, ealt and spices, 
cover them very close, and set them on 
hot ashes for six hours, then serve it_ 

Matewte @ la Calonne.*—Take six 
fowl] pinions, a dozen cray-fish, some veal 
sweetbreads, pieces of rabbit, and a large 
eel, stuck with anchovies, and cut in 
pieces, three inches long, small onions, 
morels, streaked bacon, pepper, salt, 
and a glass of stock, set these, except the 
eel and pinions, on a slow fire for half an 
hour; then add a pint of champaign, 
some more stock, and two spoonsful of 
oil, and keep them on the fire; put the 
eel and pinions into a separate saucepan, 


MEA 


and when three parts done, add them to 
the rest, and finish stewing 5 as soon as 
the matelote is sufficiently thick, take 
the pieces out with a fork, arrange them 
on a dish according to your taste}: lay 
fried bread round, and in the centre the 
sauce and court bouillon. 

Mate ote Hollandoise.*—Takea neck 
of veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl 
or capon, and some turkey’s pinions; 
put them into a saucepan with some goo 
stock; set them on the fire till about 
half done, then add a quarter of a pound 
of rice; cover the whole very close, and 
let it stew over a small fire for two hours, 
then take it off, pour the whole into a 
dish, and serve it. 

Matevote Provencale.* — Take a 
leveret and a brace of partridges, half 
roast, and cut them in pieces; take also 
some small soles, smelts, or any other 
kind of fish; put them all into a sauce- 
pan together with a glass of champaign, 
two.of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six 
cloves of garlic Bivised ; boil them toa 
court-bouclion, a8 other matelotes ; dish 
them, garnished with veal sweetbreads 
in consommé. 

MEAD.—To one hundred and tweng 
gallons of pure water ae softer the bet: 
ter), put fifteen gallons of clarified 
honey ; well mix the honey with the 
water, then fill your copper, (it should 
hold about sixty gallons), and boil it till 








it is reduced about a fourth part; then’ 


drain it off, and boil the remainder of the 
liquer in the same manner. When the 
last is about a fourth part wasted, fill up 
the copper with some of that which was 
boiled first; and continue boiling and 
filling it up till the copper contains the 
whole of the liquor, by which time it 
will, of course, be halfevaporated. The 
scum must not be taken off, but must 
well mix with the liquor whilst boiling, 
by means of a jet; when this is done, 
draw it off into under backs, by a cock at 
‘the bottom of the copper, and let it re- 
main till it is only as warm as new milk. 
Then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment 
in the vessel, where it will form a thick 
head. As soon as it has done working, 
stop it down very close, to keep the air 
from it as much as possible. When it is 
half a year old, put it into bottles, have 
it well worked. and keep it in the same 
vault it stood whilst in the cask. Those 


who like mead to have an aromatic fla- |" 


‘vour, may mix with it elder, rosemary, 
and marjoram flowers, and use cinnamon, 
cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamums, 
in various proportions, according to taste. 
Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglan- 
tine, marjoram, and rosemary, with va- 


yious Bpices, 


( 332 ) 


and let it stan 
then put it into a cask, and to thirteen 







MEA 


Mean, to Make.*—To every gallon of 
water put four pounds of honey, boil itan 
hour. Then put it into a tub with some 
yeast on atoast; coveritover. If it fer- 
ments well after three or four days, draw 
it off clear, and put itintoa cask, with one 


lemon sliced to every gallon; add a bot- 
tle of brandy to every ten gallons. The 
rind of Seville oranges cut very thin, 
suspended in the barrel, is a great im- 
provement to the flavour. 


It is best to wash the cask round with 


part of the brandy, before the liquor is 
putin. 


Meap Frontiniac.—Take fifty pounds 


of honey, fifty pounds of fine raisins, an 
fifty gallons of 

fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed 3 
put it in a tub to work, and put toita 
pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the 
yeast begins to fall; when taken clear 
off, turn it with the raisins, and throw 
into the cask a quart of white elder 
flowers; take care to attend to it in 
change of weather; let it continue in 
the cask for twelve months, and then 
fine it down with wine fining, and put it 
into bottles. 


water; bvil these about 


Meap Sack.—To every gallon of water 
| four pounds of honey, and boil it 
ee quarters of an hour, carefully 


skimming it. To every gallon add one 


ounce of hops; then boil it halfan hour, 
till the following day; 


gallons of the liquor add a quart of 
brandy. Stop it lightly till the fermen- 
tation is over, and then stop it very 
close. If you make a large cask, keep 
it in the cask for twelve months. 

MEAD, fo make small.—To a gallon of 
water put two pounds of honey, and one 

ound of sugar; boil it for an hour, put 
in the whites of four eggs to raise the 
scum ; skim it quite clean whilst boiling, 
then put it into a clean tub, and let it 
stand for a week, putting in a toast with 
honey, to make it work ; then turn it, 
and put in the peels of three or four 
lemons, and let it stand a month; and 
then if it is not sufficiently fine, put in 
more honey, and let it stand longer. 

MEAT Cakes.—Take whatever meat, 
game, or poultry, you may chance to 
have, (it is the better for being under 


done); mince it fine, adding a little fat 


bacon or ham, or anchovy ; season with & 
tle pepper and salt; mix the whole well 
together, and make it into small cakes 
abeut three inches in length, an inch and 
a half in width, and half an inch thick; 
fry them of a light brown, and serve 
them with good gravy; or put it intoa 
mould, and boil or bake it. ae 
Maat, to keep it hot.—If your meat is 


“ 


ee ee ee 


ang ea 


~~ ee ee 


ee a ee 


2 
= 





MEL 


done before you are ready to serve, tuke 
it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a deep cover over it, so as not 
to touch the meat, and then put a cloth 
over that. This way will not dry up the 
gravy. 

~ Meat Patties.— The tins should be 
about the size of a small teacup, but not 
so deep; lay pufl-paste at the bottom, 
put in some forcemeat, and cover it with 
puff-paste; bake them a light brown, 
turn them out}; five or seven make a 
side-dish. 

~ MELON Fritters.—Cut a melon into 
small pieces, (remove the seeds and 
rind), soak them in brandy and sugar for 
half an hour; then drain them well, dip 
each piece in good batter, and fry them. 
Serve them with sugar sifted over. 

Meton Fromage Bavarois.* —Cut a 
moderate sized melon into slices, from 
which take the rind and seeds; cut the 
fruit small, and reduce it to a marma- 
lade with half a pound of clarified sugar ; 
rub it through a fine sieve, add to it six 
- drachins of clarified isinglass, stir it well, 
and place it on ice; as soon as it begins 
to thicken, mix a plate of whipped cream 
with it, and finish as usual. 

Meton Mangoes.— There is a parti- 
cular sort for this purpose, which the 
gardeners know. Cut a square. small 
piece out of one side, and through that 
take out all the seeds, mix them with 
mustard-seeds and shred garlic, stuff 
the melon with them, as full as the space 
will allow, and replace the square piece. 
Bind it up with small pack-thread. Boil 
a sufficient quantity of vinegar to allow for 
wasting, with pepper, salt,and ginger, and 
pour it boiling hot over the mangoes, for 
four successive days; the last day you 
pour it over, add flour of mustard, and 
scraped horse-radish, into the vine- 
gar, just asit boilsup. Stopclose. Be 
eareful there is plenty of vinegar. 
All pickles are spoiled if not kept well 
eovered with vinegar, and the greater 
number of times the boiling vinegar is 
poured over the mangoes, the sooner it 
will be ready for use. Large cucumbers, 
called green Turley, prepared in the 
same manner as above, are very good, 
and come sooner into eating. 

Me tons /o Preserve for Cookery.—Boil 
two parts of water, and one of vinegar, with 
salt, cloves (and other spice if you like), in 
proportion ; in the meanwhile take some 
small melons, wipe them with a cloth, 
and put them into a saucepan; pour the 
above mixture, whilst boiling, over them, 
and set them on ashes till the next day ; 
then renew the fire, and keep them tor 
several days, until the melons become 
quite green, then put them into pots, 


( 333 )- 


MIL 


and when cold, cover them close; they 
should be kept in a cool place. 7 
Metons (to preserve like Ginger).*— 
Halfa pound of ginger to one pound e 
melon; scrape the ginger, and save the. 
scrapings } pour a quart of boiling water 
on the ginger, let it stand two days: 
scald the melon (with the scrapings of 
the ginger in the water), taking care not 
to make it too soft: cut it into small 
pieces resembling ginger; then prepare 
a syrup, half a pound of sugar to a pint of- 
water; boil the ginger in it; when cold, 
put in the melon, and set it over the fire: 
for a short time, but not to boil; let the 
syrup, with the ginger, be boiled every 
day for a fortnight, but not poured upon 
the melon till nearly cold; then boil a 
rich syrup to keep it in. ; 
N.B. — Carrot is equally good with 


melon. 

MERINGUES.—Whisk the whites of 
nine eggs toa solid froth; then add the 
rind of six lemons, grated extremely fine, 
and a spconful of sifted. sugar; after. 
which, lay a sheet of wet paper on atin, 
and with a spoon drop the mixture in 
little lumps, separately upon it, sift su- 
gar over, and put them to bake in a 
moderately heated oven, taking care that 
they are done of a nice colour. Then 
put raspberry, apricot, or any other kind 
of jam between two of these bottoms, add 
them together, and lay them in a warm 
place, or before the fire to dry. 
~  Merinaues.*—Take the whites of 
twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lamp 
sugar, pounded and sifted, and half a 
pound of pistachios ; blanch and beat the 
latter in a mortar, with a little white of 
egg, to a very fine paste. Whisk the 
whites of eggs to a snow, then add the 
sugar, and pistachio paste, mix them 
well, but very lightly, and when they are 
thoroughly incorporated, put some sheets 
of paper On tin plates, lay your prepara- 
tion on the paper, with a spoon, lay the 
meringues, at least an inch . apart; 
sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and put 
them into a moderate oven or stove; 
when done, detach them gently from the 
paper with a knife, and place them ona 
sieve in a dry place. Just before they 
are sent to table, fill each with a little 
whipped cream, to which add a small 
quantity of either orange-flower, rose, or 
vanilla water.. 

MIGNONETTE.—A mignonette con- 
sists of the long pepper, ginger, cinn@- 
mon, cloves, coriander, and mace, tie 
together, in a bit of linen cloth. 

MILK-PORRIDGE.— Make a_ fine 
gruel of half grits, boiled a long time; 
strain off; either add cold milk, or warm 
it with milk: serve with toast. 


MIL 


Oatmeal and water together, leave it to 
stand till it is clear, then pour off the 
latter; pour fresh water upon it, stir it 
well, let it stand till the following day; 
strain through a fine sieve, and boil the 
water, adding milk while doing; the pro- 
portion of water should be small. 

“Mixx, Potage of.*—Put on the fire 
some milk, with a little sugar, and a bay 
leaf; add, as soon as it boils, the yolks 
of three eggs, then take it off, and set it 
aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a 
snow, poach them in a little of the milk; 
soak your bread in the remainder, put it 
into the tureen, with the poached whites 
on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, 
and colour them with the salamander. 

Mitx Punch.* — Beat up two eggs 
well, mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, 
nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste} 
boil it gently, stirring it all the time till 
thick enough; take it off the fire a very 
few minutes, then add to it a full quarter 
of a pint ofrum. It must be stirred all 
the time the rum is pouring in, or it will 
not be good. 

Mrik« Punch.—Pare six oranges, and 
six lemons, as thin as you. possikly can, 
grate them after with sugar to obtain the 
flavour.. Steep the peels in a bottle of 
rum or brandy, stopped elose for four 
and twenty hours. Squeeze the fruit on 
two pounds of sugar, add four quarts of 
water to it, and one quarf of new milk, 
boiling hot ; stir the rum into the above, 
and run it through a jelly-bag until it is 
quite clear: bottle and cork it close im- 
mediately. 

Mix Punch for present Drinking.— 
To two quarts of water, put two quarts 
of French brandy, a dozen and half of 
lemons, three quarters of a pound of 
double refined sugar, and three pints of 
new milk; strain it frequently through a 
jelly-bag, till it is clear and fine; it must 
be made two or three days before you use 
it, and may be bottled off. 

Mi1Lk Soup.—Take two quarts of new 
milk, with two sticks of cinnamon, a 
couple of bay leaves, a very little basket 
Salt, and a little sugar; put all into a 
stewpan to warm; while heating, blanch 
halfa pound of sweetalmonds, beat them 
to a paste in a mortar; mix them by de- 
grees with some miik, and while heating, 
add to them the peel of a lemon, grated, 
and a little of the juice; then strain it 
through a coarse sieve, and mix it with 
the milk that is heating in the stewpan, 
and let it boil up. 

Cut some slices of French bread, and 
dry them before the fire; let them soak 
a little in the milk ; lay them at the 
bottom of thetureen, and pour in thesoup. 


( 334 ) 
Mitx Porridge (French).-~Stir some | 





MIN 
Mix Soup Lié.*—Put a quart of milk 


on the fire, and when it boils, add te 
‘it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, 


and four eggs, keep it on the fire, stirr- 
ing till you find it thicken and adhere to 
the spoon (the milk must not boil); cut 
some very light bread into pieces, soak 
them in the usual way, substituting milk 
for broth, pour the soup over and serve. 
Mitx Soup au Safran.*—Scald and 
drain some rice, put it into a quart of 
boiling milk, adding six grains of saffron 
in powder ; let it boil over a slow fire 


for an hour and a half, and then serve it | 


quite hot. 
Mix Vinegar.*—Put six spoonsful of 
good brandy into a large bottle full of 
milk; cork it well, and expose it ina warm 
place for a month, opening it occasion=- 
ally on account of the fermentation ; at 
the end of that time the milk will have 
become very good vinegar; strain it 
through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. 
Miitx Water.-Take two handsful of 
wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of 
rue, ditto of angelica; mint and balm, of 
each four handsful; cut them a little, 
put them into a cold still, and add to 
them three quarts of milk ; let your fire 
be quick till the still drops, then slacken 
it: you may draw off two quarts ; the 
first quart will keep all the year. 
MILLET Pudding.— Wash three 
spoonsful of the seed; put it into a dish, 
with a crust round the edges; pour over 
it as much new milk as will nearly fill 


ithe dish, add two ounces of butter, 


warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very 

little ginger and nutmeg, grated: as 
ou put it in the oven, stir in two eggs, 

heater and a spoonful of shred suet. 

Mittet Pudding.—Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter, and spread it at the 
bottom of a dish, then put in six ounces 
of millet, with a quarter of a pound of 
sugar; pour over it three pints of milk, 
and bake it. 

Mince. Pie. — Weigh two pounds of 
scraped beef, free from skin and strings, 
of suet, picked and chopped, four pounds, 
then add six pounds of currants, nicely 
cleaned, and perfectly dried, three 
pounds of chopped apples, the peel and 
Juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, 
anutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves 
the same quantity of mace, the same 
pimentos, in the finest powder ; mix the 
whole well together, and put it into a 
pan, and keep it covered in a dry cool 

ace. 

Fs Have some citron, orange, and lemon 
peel, ready; and put some of each in the 
pies when made. 

Mince Pies without Meat.*—Take 4 
pound of currants, a pound of apples, 





4 
oe 


er: 


ne 





MIN 


chopped fine, a pound of moist sugar, a | 
pound of suet, well chopped, a quarter of | 
a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped. 
small ;the juice of four Seville oranges, 
the juice of two lemons, the rind of one 
shred fine, nutmeg, and mace, according 
to taste, and a glass of brandy, mix all 
well together, put it ina pan, and keep 
it closely tied up. 

Mint, Créme of.*—Put into the bazn- 
marie alermbic, a gallon of brandy, twelve 
ounces of fresh-gathered mint, and the 
rinds of three lemons; distil from this 
two quarts of “gweuwr, in which dissolve 
one drachm of essence of mint; put a 
pound and half of sugar into two quarts 
of water, and when entirely dissolved, 
add the syrup to your /équeuwr, strain and 
bottle it. 

Mint (distilled) Liqueur of.*—Take 

two handsful of fresh gathered garden 
mint, and infuse it for some days in a 
gallon and a half of brandy, and-a quart 
of water; then distil it as usual. Dis- 
solye three pounds and a half of sugar in 
seven pints of water, mix the syrup with 
the Zgueur, and run the whole through 
a jelly bag. 
_ Maunr (essence of) Jelly.*—Put three. 
quarters of a pound of fine sugar intoa_ 
preserving pan, and when nearly boiling, 
throw into it twelve drac' of fresh 
gathered mint, and the rinds of two 
Jemons 3 cover it and leave it to get lnke- 
warm dissolve half a drachm of essence 
of mint in a glass of tepid water, add half 
a glass of kirschenwasser, mix these with 
the lukewarm sugar, and an ounce of 
clarified isinglass, also lukewarm; strain 
the whole through a silk-sieve, and 
finish as usual. __ 

Mint (green) Vinegur.—Take half an 
ounce of mint, dry and pound it, pour 
over it a quart of the best vinegar, and 
let it steep for ten days, shaking it up 
every day. ; 

Mint (Orange) Water.—Take a still 
full of orange mint, distil it in a cold 
still, and put fresh orange mint into the 
water} distil it again, and put your bot- 
tles into the still unstopped; a spoonful 
of this water put into a glass of spring 
water, will perfume it as well as orange 
flower water. : > 

Mint Sauce.—Take nice fresh mint, 
chop it small, and mix it with vinegar 
and sugar. 

Mint Souflas Frangais.*—Take some 
fresh gathered mint leaves, put them, 
with the rinds of two lemons, into the 
milk, when nearly boiling ; strain and 
finish as usual. See Souffles Frangais. 

Mint /Vater.— Take four pounds of | 
dried mint, two gallons and a half of’ 
proof spirits, and three gallons of water ; 


( 335 ) 





MOR 


distil them, and sweeten the water with 
a pound and a half of sugar. 

MIRLITONS.*—Put inte a pan two 
yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of 
powder sugar, three ounces of sweet 
macaroons crushed, half an ounce of 
crisped orange-flowers in powder, and a 
grain of salt; stir these together a mi- 
nute, then add two ounces of melted but- 
ter; whip the two whites very firm, and 
put them also to the preparation. Line 
thirty tartlet moulds with puff-paste, 
into each of which pour an equal quan- 
tity of the above ; cover them with sifted 
sugar, and when that is dissolved, strew 
over a little sugar, @ fa gréle ; and put 
them into a moderate oven: serve either 
hot or cold. 

Moor Game, see Fowl. 

MORELS.*—The morel is a kind of 
mushroom, and is usually dressed in the 
same manner. For a ragodt or garnish, 
they are prepared as follows : —Having 
taken off their stalks, split the largest 
morels into two or three pieces; wash 
and put them into a basin of warm water 
to free them from the sand. and earth; 
then blanch, drain, and put them intoa 
stewpan, with a piece of butter and 
lemon-juice, give them a few turns, and 
moisten with either brown or white 
sauce. 

Morers with Bacon. — Cut about 
quarter of a pound of bacon into slices, 
put it into a stewpan and set it on the 
fire; when done, take some large mo- 
rells, wash them thoroughly, euteach in 
half, and put them into the same pan 
(having removed the bacon); add a lit- 
tle butter, and give them a few turns 3 
then take them out, soak them in melted 
butter or oil, with chopped parsley, 
shalots, whole peper, and salt; in about 
half an hour, drain and roll them in 
bread-crumbs, put on small skewers, 
lay them on.a gridiron, broil slowly, bast- 
ing occasionally with the butter, bacon, 
fat, and the marinade; lay the slices of 
bacon on a dish, and the morels on 
them. “és 

Morets with Cream.*—The morels 
being thoroughly washed, cut them in 
halves or quarters, according to their 
size ; stew them with butter, salt, anda 
little water ; when they are nearly done, 
add some good cream, mix it in well, 
eae them, and serve the morels quite 

ot, 

Morets with Croute.*—Pick, and cut 
the morels in halves, wash them in se- 
veral waters; boil, drain, and put them 


| into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a 


bunch of parsley and scallions; fry them 
lightly, then add a little flour and core 
sommé, reduce them; take out the par- 


MUF 


‘sley and scallions, thicken with the yolk 
of an egg beaten up with cream, adda 

-small quantity of powder-sugar; serve 
- ‘them with a crust prepared as for mush- 
rooms. 

Morexs 22 Gravy.*—Having cut, well 
washed, and drained your morels, put 
them into a saucepan with oil, salt, and 
-pepper 3 let them boil for half an hour; 
then add some veal gravy and a little 
wine; then simmer them till sufficiently 
done; serve them with the sauce, if the 
latter be too thick squeeze lemon-juice 
into it. 

Morets fo Keep.— They should be 
dried slowly, put into paper bags, and 
kept in a dry place. 

Morets, Stuffed.* —Choose the largest 
and most reund-shaped morels, and hay- 
‘ing washed and drained, dry them ina 
cloth; fill each with a little fine farce, 
and stew them with slices of bacon and 
veal; when nearly done, pour on them 
alittle veal gravy. Serve very hot. 

Morets and Truffles. — Morels and 
truffles are used for thickening soups 
-and sauces, and to give them a fine fla- 
-vour. Wash half an ounce of each, then 
let them simmer a few minutes in water, 
and add them, with the liquor, to boil in 
the sauce, &c. till tender. 

MOUNTAIN Wine.—Take some very 
fine Malaga raisins, pick out all the 
stalks, and chop them very fine, and to 
every ten pounds of the raisins put two 
gallons of water. Let them steep three 
weeks, stirring them frequently during 
that time ; then squeeze out the liquor, 
and put itinto a vessel that will just hold 
it, but be careful not to stop it till it has 
done hissing; then bung it up close, 
and it will be fit for use in about six 
months. 

MUFFINS.—Mix two pounds of flour 
witha couple of eggs, two ounces of but- 
ter melted in a pint of milk, and four or 
five spoonsful of yeast ; beatit thoroughly, 
and set it to rise two or three hours. 
Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and 
turn them, when done, on one side. 

. Murrins.—Take two quarts of warm 
warm water, twospoonsful of yeast, three 

ounds of flour; heat it weil for half an 

our, and let it stand an hour er two; 
bake them on an iron baking-stove (rub 
it well over with mutton-suet as often as 
they are laid on); as soon as they begin 
to colour, turn them; they will be .suf- 
ficiently baked when coloured on both 
sides. 

Murrin Pudding with dried Cherries. 
—Take a pintand a half of milk, add to 
it a few coriander-seeds, a bit of lemon- 
peel, sugar according to taste, and boil 


them together for ten minutes; then put ! 


( 336 ) 


MUL 


four muffins into a pan, strain the milk 
over them, and when they are cold, mash 
them with a wooden spoon; add half a 
gill of brandy, half a pound of dried cher- 
ries, a little grated nutmeg, two ounces 
of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded — 
extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. 
Mix all togetherand boil in a basin, or 
bake it in a dish with paste all round. 

MULBERRIES, Preserved. — Boil 
three quarters of a pound of sugar to 
grand perlé; then put to it a pound of 
mulberries, stir them in carefully, with 
out letting them boil; then take the pan 
by the handle and roll the fruit about in 
the sugar for a few minutes; pour them 
into a basin, and let them stand; the 
next day drain off the sugar, boil it to 
the above-mentioned degree; add the 
fruit, and proceed as above, and then 
pour it into pots; donot cover them till 
quite cold. 

Mutserates, to preserve Dry.—Your 
mulberries must not be too dry, but must 
look rather a reddish green, and taste 
tart; prepare the saine quantity of sugar 
au sougié as of fruit; put in the mulber- 
ries and let them boil; the sugar must 
be first clarified with mulberry juice in- 
stead of water; when they have boiled, 
take the pan from the fire, skim it, and 
set itin a stove till next day; then take 
them out, drain them from the syrup, 
and put them up in boxes for use. 

Mutserries, Ratafia of.*—Take two 
gallons of brandy, a quart of water, three 
pounds anda halfof sugar, three pounds 
of mulberries, half a pound of red cur- 
rants, the same of raspberries, and half 
adrachm of mace. Take the seeds from 
the currants, mix, and crush all the 
fruits, the juice from which, with the 
mace, infuse in the brandy fifteen or 
eighteen days. Dissolve the sugar in 
the water, mix the syrup with the 
brandy, filter and bottle it. 

Mupberry Syrup.—Put some mulber- 
ries into a jug, tie a paper over it, and 
then put it up to the neck in a kettle of 
water; let it boil; as the liquor rises 
from the mulberries, pour it off, strain it, 
and to one pint of the liquor put one 
pound of loaf sugar ; set it over a slow 
fire, boil it gently till it becomes about 
the consistence of treacle; then take it 
off and bottle it. 

Mu.perrises, Syrup of.* — Take as 
many mulberries as will yield three pints 
of juice, which put into a preserving- 
pan with three pints of water; boil until 
this quantity is reduced to one pint; then 
lay the fruit on a sieve to drain. Clarify 
three pounds of sugar, boil it to bowzllé ; 
then add the mulberry-jnice; give them 
one boil, and skim them. Pour the 








MUS 


Syrup intoa pan, and let it stand; when 
cold, bottle it. 

Muteperry /Vine.—Take mulberries 
when they are just changed from their 
redness to shining black, gather them on 


a dry day, when the sun has taken off 


the dew, spread them thinly on a fine 
cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four 
hours, and boil. upa gallon of water to 
each gallon of juice ; skim the water well, 
and add alittle cinnamon slightly bruised; 
put to every gallon six ounces of white 
sugar-candy, finely beaten; skim and 
strain the water when it is taken off and 
settled, and put to it the juice of the 
mulberries, and to every gallon of the 
mixture, puta pint of white or rhenish 
wine; let them stand five or six days in 
a cask to settle; then draw off the wine, 
and keep it cool. This is avery rich 
cordial. 

MULLET, to Choose.—The sea mal- 

lets are better than the river-mullets, 
and the red are considered better than 
the grey; to be good they should be very 
firm. They are in season in August. 
- Motter, Bocled.—Boil mullets in salt 
and water; when they are done, pour 
away part of the water, and put tothe 
rest a pint of red wine, some salt and 
vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, and 
the juice of a lemon; boil these well to- 
gether, with twoor three anchovies; then 
put in the fish; and when they have 
simmered in it some time, put them into 
a dish and strain the sauce over them. 
Shrimps or oysters may be added. 

Muttet Brotled.—Scale and gut them, 
and cnt gashes in their sides, dip them 
in melted butter, and broil them at a 
great distance from the fire; serve with 
ow, sauce with capers, and a squeeze 
of Seville orange or lemon. 

Meters Pried.—Scale and gut them, 
pour some melted butter into a deep 
dish, score the mullets across the back, 
and dip them into the butter;-then put 
some butter in astewpan, clarify it, fry 
the mullets in it; when they are done, 
lay them on a warm dish, and serve with 
anchovy sauce. 

Motter (Red).—Red mullet is called 
the sea-wocvdcock. Clean it, but.do not 
take out the inside; fold in oiled paper, 
and gently bake ina small dish. Make 
a sauce of the liquor which comes from 
the fish, adding a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a little essence of anchovy, anda 
glass of sherry. Give it a boil, and serve 
it in a sauce-boat, and serve the fish in 
the paper cases. 


MUSCADINE Jces.—Put an ounce of 


elder flower into a sabotiére, pour upon 
it about half a pint of boiling water, then 


n 


( 337 ) 









MUS 


put on the lid of the sadotiére, and let it 
draw for about halfan hour, make a com- 
position precisely as it were a lemon ice 3 
to this composition add the infusion of 
elder-flower, pass the whole through a 
sieve, and put it into the sadotéére to 
congeal. 

MUSCLES Fritters.*—Take them out 
of their shells, and after many washings, 
steep them for two hours in a quart of 
vinegar, some water, anda little butter 
rolled in flour, with salt, pepper, parsley, 
green onions, tarragon, garlic, a little 
carrot and parsnip, thyme, bay-leaf, and 
basil, the whole made luke warm; then 
take out the muscles, dry and dip them 
in a batter made of flour, white wine, a 
spoonful of oil, and salt, and fry them. 

Muscie Ketchup. — Take fine fresh 
muscles, wash them in their own liquor, 
pound them in a marble mortar; to a 
pint of muscles add a pint of sherry, 
then give them a boil up, add one ounce 
of salt, two drachms of mace well pound- 
ed, and one ounce of cayenne; give the 
whole one boil, skim it, and rub it 
through a sieve ; let it stand to cool, and 
when cold put it into bottles 5; cork it 
carefully, and seal it down. 

Muscies @ la Minute.*—Clean and 
take away the shells as directed for la 
Poulette, draw off all the water except 
what is necessary to cook them in, adda 
little butter and shred parsley, shake 
them up a minute or two, and then serve 
with a squeeze of lemon. 

Musctes @ law Poulette.*—The mus- 
cles being thoroughly washed, put them 
into a pan without any water, and fry 
them lightly over a brisk fire; as they 
open, remove the shells, strain the liquor 
from them throughasilk sieve. Put a 
piece of butter into a saucepan, and some 
shred scallions, give them a few turns 
on the fire, then add a little parsley, and 
afterwards a dessert spoonful of flour 5 
mix this well with the butter, and pour 
in the liquor from the muscles, season 
with pepper and nutmeg 3 give the whole 
a few boils, thicken it with two or three 
yolks of eggs, and put in the muscles, 
make them quite hot, but do not let them 
boil. Dish them, and squeeze lemon- 
juice over them. — - 

Musctss (Ragodt of).—Open them, 
melt a little butter in a stewpan, fry the 
muscles @ minute with a little chopped 
parsley, shake a little flour over them, put 
ina little cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and 
lemon-juice ; boil themup. If you wish 
them to be brown, instead of cream you 
should put good gravy. . 

Musciss in Soup.*—Take the liquor 
that flows from the muscles when they 
ay ae the fire, and strain it through 


MUS 


a fine napkin, put it into some good stock, 
and beat up the yolks of six eggs, and 
add to it; thicken over the fire, and mix 


the whole with some consommé ftoup 


when ready to serve, arranging the mus- 
cles round the dish. 

Muscces, Tourte of.—Line a dish with 
puff-paste, put at the bottom a layer of 
good farce, then (having washed the 
muscles well) put them into a saucepan, 
take away the shellsias they open, leave 
in the fish, and let them stew in their 
own liquor with butter, shalots, parsley, 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt; lay them on 
the farce, cover and bake the tourte, and 
serve with béchamel. 

MUSHROOMS éochoose.—The mush- 
rooms proper to be used in covkery grow 
in ‘the open pasture laad, for those that 
grow near or under trees, are poisonous. 
he eatable mushrooms first-appear very 
small, and of around form, on a little 
stalk. They grow very rapidly, and the 
upper part and stalk are white. As they 
increase in size, the under part gradually 
opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very 
fine salmon-colour, which continues 


more or less till the mushroom has gained | 
some size, and then turns to a dark | 
brown. These marks should beattended | 
to, and likewise whether the skin can — 
be easily parted from the edge and mid- | 
dle, and whether they have a pleasant | 
Those which are poisonous have | 
a yellow skin, and the under part-has not | 
the clear fleeh colourof the real mush- | 
room ; besides which, they smell rank 
and disagreeable, and the fur is white or | 


smell. 


yellow. 


* Musnrooms 4 la Bourgeoise.*—Pick, | 


trim, and cut the mushrooms in halves} 
put some slices of streaky bacon into a 
stewpan, and set it on a slow fire for 
a quarter of an hour, then add the 
sushrooms, parsley, scallions, shalots 
(chopped), pepper, a pinch of flour, a 


little stock and white wine; stew the 


whole gently, and when reduced to a 
thick sauce, pour it on fried bread, and 
‘serve with vinegar or lemon juice. 
Musnrooms Broiled. — Choose the 
‘largest'sort ; pepper.and salt them well, 
Jay them on a small gridiron with the 
stalk upwards, broil them rather quick, 
-and serve them with good gravy. 
Musurooms en Cannellon.—Chopsome 
‘mushrooms into dice, put them into a 
stewpan, with sliced parsley, scaliions, 
shalots, and some butter; when alittle 
‘browned, add stock, pepper, and salt; let 
-it simmer till-the mushrooms are done, 
and the sauce pretty thick, then put in 
‘the yolks of three eggs, and a little 
lemon-juice ; set it by to cool; in the 
“mean time, roll some paste very thin, cut 


( 338 ) 





MUS 
it in pieces, in each of which put some 


| of the above, moisten the edges,:and roli 
them up'into ‘the form of short sausages, 


flour and fry them, +8 
Musnrooms @ la Créme. — Choose 
those which are small, and boil thema 
few minutes in some good cream-saUuce 5 
toast the crust of a rasped French roll, 
fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over 
on the dish, and pour the remainder 
over it. 
MusHrooms with Crust.—Take some 
mushrooms, wash, but do not peel them 5 
then put them with a few spoonsful of 
guod oil, into a frying-pan, and heat therm 
for seven or eight minutes over a quick 
fire. Whilst they are cooking, add pep- 
per, salt, grated nutmeg, and shred pars- 
ley and shalots; then pour ‘the whole 
over a fried crust, and serve imme- 
diately. : ata 
Mussrooms ‘eo Dry.—W ipe them quite 
clean, and take out the brown and pare 
off the skin of the large ones; lay them 
on paper, and put them in a cool oven te 
dry, keep them in paper bags in a very 
dry place. When wanted for use, sim- 
mer them in gravy, and they will swell 
to nearly their former size; or you may 
simmer them in their‘own liquor till it 
dries up into them, shaking the pan, then 
dry them on tin plates with spice or not, 
as you think proper. Tie down with a 
bladder, and keep them in adry place, 
or in paper. ; wt att 
Musxunrooms and Eggs.*—Mince some 
morels or mushrooms very small, put 
them into a stewpan with some rich 
gravy,and do them till properly flavoured 
and. the gravy pretty thick, then pour on 
them the yolks of twelve eggs, and the 
whites. of eight, season moderately, and 
beat them constantly whilst on the fire; 
serve them very hot. Vea 
Musurooms Fricasseed.— Peel some 
mushrooms, if they are large, cut them 
in- pieces, wash them in cold water, with 
some vinegar, and bianch them; after- 
wards dip them again into cold water, 
and wipe them dry. Then heat them 
over the fire, with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour, some salt, pepper, and a bunch 
of parsley; moisten with hot water or 
stock, and just before serving, thicken 
with the yolk of an egg, and half-a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. 
Musnrooms, to keep.*—'The mush- 
rooms for keeping should be of ‘a mode- 
rate size; lay them on hurdles, or string, 
and hang them up%in a dry place, where 
there is a free circulation of air, but no 
sun: if you wish to dry them by aquicker 
process, lay them in an oven; should 
you have any large ones, take off the 
tops and stems, and cut them in slices ; 


ee 





MUS 


when perfectly dry, put them into bags, 
whick keep in a dry open place, shaking 
them often. 

Another method of preserving mush- 
rooras is, by putting them either in oil, 
salt water, or vinegar, with garlic, pep- 
per, and salt, and when they are wanted, 
soak them in warm water or milk. 

Musurooms, fo feep.* —Choose your 
mushrooms very white, firm, and fresh 
gathered, pick and wash them ; then put 
them into a stewpan with some good 
fresh butter, or the best olive oil; set 
the pan on the fire, and leave them until 
they have given out all their water, and 
then until that water is half evaporated, 
they may then be taken from the fire 
and put intoa pan; when cold, put them 
mto bottles, which set in a baz marie. 

Musarooms, to keep in Salt and 
Water. —Thoroughly clean them ; boil 
them tender in water and a little salt; 
dry them with a cloth; make a strong 
brine; when cold, put in the mush- 
rooms; at the end of a fortnight change 


the brine ; put them into small bottles, | 


and pour oil on the top. 
When you want to use them forragofit, 
&c., lay them first in warm water. “ 
MusHroom Ketchup. — Choose ‘the 
largest broad mushrooms, break them into 
an earthen pan, sprinkle salt over them, 
and stir them now and then ‘for three 
successive days. Then let them stand 
fer twelve days, until there is a thick 
scum over them; strain, and boil the 
liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, 
mace, ginger, a few cloves, and some 


mustard-seed. When cold, put it: into | 


bottles, and tie a bladder over the cork; 
at the end of three months it should be 
boiled again, with fresh spices, and it 
may then be kept for twelve months. 
Rsamnedies 7n a Marinade, Fried.— 
Choose some good button mushrooms, 
peel them, and put them for one day into 
a pickle of half vinegar and half water, 
salt, one clove of garlic, peppercorns, 
parsley, carrots, and onions ; have some 
good fresh lard on the fire, take the 
mushrooms out of the pickle, chop them 
in flour, and fry'them in the hot lard, 
laying them on paper as you do them ; 
serve them with a sharp sauce, made 
with three table-spoonsful of butter 
sauce, mixed with a little glaze, and the 
juice of nearly half a lemon. 
Musurooms Pickled. — Button mush- 
rooms should be rubbed with a bit of flan- 


nel and salt, and from the larger ones take | 


out the red insides; when they are black 
they will not do, being too old. Sprinkle 
a little salt over them, and put them into 
a stewpan, with some mace and pepper; 
as the liquor comes out, shake them well, 


( 339 ) 

















MUS 


and keep them over a gentle fire till alf 
of it be dried into them again, then put 
| as much vinegar into the pan as will be 
| Sufficient to cover them; give it one 
| warm, and turn the whole into a glass 
or stone jar. They will keep for two 


| years. 
| Musnrooms Pickled.*—Boit them in 
‘milk, then wipe them dry with a flannel). 
‘Boil some vinegar with mace, nutmeg, 
‘and ginger, and let it stand till cold, 
then put it to the mushrooms, and bottle 
it; when bottled, pour in a little sweet 
oil before tying on the bladders. 
Musnrooms, to Pickle White.—Cut oft 
the stalks of some small button mush- 
‘rooms, rub theskins off with flannel dip- 
| ped in salt, and then throw them inte milk 
| and water. Drain them out, and put them 
'into a stewpan, strewing over them @ 
handful of salt; cover them close, and 
‘put them over a gentle stove for five 
| minutes, to draw out all the water. ‘Then 


| put them on a coarse cloth to drain till 


| they are cold. 
Musuroom Powder.* — Take half a 


| peck of large mushrooms, wash them 


| clean from grit, cut off the stalks, put 
| them into a saucepan without any water, 
'a quarter of an ounce of mace, two 
| spoonsful of pepper powdered, two onions 
| stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some 
| allspice and nutmeg if you like, and @ 
quarter of a pound of butter. Let it 
| stew till the liquor is dried up, then lay 
| them on sieves to dry, till they will beat 
| to a powder. Bottle, and cork it down 
| close for use; a tea-spoonful added to 
gravy or soup, a minute or two before 
it is taken off the fire, gives a fine fla- 
vour. : 

MusHroom Powder.—After the mush- 
rooms or champignons are dried whole, 
they may be set before the fire till crisp 
then grind and sift them through a fine 
sieve, and preserve insmall bottles closely 
corked. 

MusHrooms, Quintessence of.— This 
delicate relish is obtained, by sprinkling 
some button or flap mushrooms over with 
a little salt, and three hours after, mash 
them ; the following day, strain off the 
liquor that wi)] flow from them, and boil 
it in a stewpan till reduced to half. It 
will not keep long, but many prefer it on 
account of the flavour of the mushrooms 
not being overpowered by the spices, 
which it is necessary to put into ketchup 
_ to preserve them. 

Musxroom Loaves.—Wash some small 
| button mushrooms, the same as for pick- 
ling, and boil thema few minutes in alittle 
water; add tothem alittle cream, a bit of 
butter rolled in flour, and some salt and 
rue. Boil these up, take the crumb out 


MUS 


ofsome French rolls, and fill them with 


the mushrooms. 

Musurooms (Ragodt of ).—Take some 
large mushrooms, scrape the insides of 
them, and broil them till they are brown ; 
then put them into some gravy, thickened 
with a little flour, a very little Madeira, 
salt, eayenne, and a little lemon juice. 
Give the whole a boil, and then serve. 

MusHrooms, Ragott of (Brown).*— 
Prepare your mushrooms as for white 
ragoit; when minced, and the moisture 
pressed out, make a little brown roug, 
moisten it with stock; put to it a little 

ham, trimmings of veal, a seasoned 
bunch of sweet herbs, carrot and onions; 
when done, strain it through a sieve, and 
then finish it by adding a little butter. 

Musnrooms, Ragodt of (White).*— 

_ Pick and cut off the stalks of the mush- 
‘reoms near to the head, wash them in 
severa! waters, and then put them into a 
saucepan, with some water and lemon- 
juice. Drain, mince them very small, 
and press them closely in a cloth. As 
soon as all their moisture is extracted, 
. replace them in a saucepan, with butter 
and Jemon-juice, and when the former 
begins to oil, add equal quantities of 
velouté and consommé ; reduce, and sea- 
son it with pepper. Thicken it with 
yolks of egg, cream, and butter; skim 
off the fat and serve. 

MusxHroom Salad.— Cut your mush- 
rooms into dice, which put into a sauce- 
pan, with oil, and a slice or two of peeled 
lemon; simmer a short time, then drain, 
and let them cool; when quite cold, put 
them into a salad dish, with chopped 
parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; pre- 
pare them like other salads, with oil 
and vinegar. 

Musuroom Sauce.*—Cut some mush- 
rooms into pieces, press them in a cloth, 
and then mince them; do them up ina 
little melted butter, then add some good 
stock, parsley, scallions, and two cloves 
of garlic; skim, and cook them over a 
moderate fire for half an hour; strain, 
take off the fat, and serve it very hot. 

Mussroom Sauce al Espagnole.—Put 
two ladlesful of brown consommé (com- 
monly called espagnole) into a stewpan, 
with two ladlestul of sauce tournée, and 
some mushrooms; reduce it over the 
fire to the thickness of the sauce you put 
in, at first, then stir in a piece of butter, 
the juice of halfa lemon, and a very small 
quantity of cayenne pepper. 
Musurooms, Stewed.*—Peel some large 
mushrooms, take out the inside, broil 
them, and when the outside is brown, 
put them inastewpan with water enough 
to cover them, a spoonful of white wine, 
the same of browning, anda little vine- 


( 340 ) 


MUS 
gar; thicken it with flour and mpotcrte 


boil it up; and serve with sippets roun 
the dish. Songs 
Musurooms (/Vhite) a la Bordelaise.* 
—Choose the thickest and firmest mush- 
rooms, wash and drain them, cut the un- 
der side in lozenges, put them in a dish 
with oil, pepper, and salt, let them lay 
two hours in this, then broilthem; make 
a sauce as follows:—Put some oil, shred 
parsley, and scallions, and a small piece 
of garlic, into a saucepan; shake them 
over the fire till quite hot; then,pour it 
over the mushrooms with the juice of 
two lemons. 
Mussrooms (/hite) aux Croute.*—. 
Trim and blanch your mushrooms, ‘put 
them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, 
a bunch of parsley and scallions; set the 
pan on a stove and fry the mushrooms 
lightly ; then add a spoonful of flour and. 
some gocd stock; let these boil pretty 
quick at first, and afterwards set them 
aside to simmer ; season them with salt, 
pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; take 
the upper crust of a very light brick, 
rasp and take out all the crumb, butter 
the crust inside and out, place it on a 
gridiron over a clear fire, dry and broil 
of a nice colour; take the parsley and 
scallions from the mushrooms, thicken 
the sauce with the yolks of eggs beaten 
up with cream, pour a little of this on 
the crust, lay iton a dish, the hollow part 
downwards; pour the ragoiit over, and 
serve it. 
_ MusHrooms (/Vhite) for Galantine.* 
—Trim and put the mushrooms intocold 
water, in which is a little lemon-juices 
then drain and set them on the fire with 
a good bit of butter and lemon-juice, for 
about five minutes; when done, put 
them in a China basin for use, 
Musnnooms (White) with Herbs.*7#— 
Prepare and soak your mushrooms as for 
la Bordelaise, mince the stalks and trim- 
mings, press out all the water they ma 
contain, put them into a saucepan wit 
oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions, 
and a piece of garlic; give these a few 
turns, and having laid the mushrooms 
on a dish, put a little of the sauce into 
each, sprinkle them with raspings; pour 
a little oil over, and bake them; when 
done, dish and serve them with their own 
sauce and lemon-juice. , 


Musunooms (/Vhite) a la Provencale.* 


—Take four smal] baskets of very firm 
mushrooms, pick, wash, and drain them; 
cut each in half, and lay them in oil, sea- 
soned with pepper, salt, and garlic; just 
before dinner time, put them into a fry- 
ing-pan with some olive oil, fry them 
over a large fire ; when ofa good colour, 
add two spoonsful of chopped parsley, 





a eee 





oa 
ene 


_ 


1 A ee ge 


ee ee ee ee ee oy 


Weis eli ash ams 


MUT 
and about a dozen pieces of bread, all 
the same size and shape ; squeeze a little 
lemon-juice over, and serve. 

MusnHrooms (/Vhite), Purée of.*— 
Choose your mushrooms very white, cut 
off the earthy end of the stalk and wash 
them. Put a little water into a stewpan 
with the juice of a lemon, fry the mush- 
rooms lightly in this; then drain and 
mince them very small; put them into 
a cloth, press them verytight. Take a 
piece of butter, and put it in a saucepan 
wlth asqueeze of lemon and the chopped 
mushrooms; set them on the fire, and 
when the butter is oiled, add six ladlesful 
of velouté, and as much consommé ; re- 
duce this till your purée is pretty thick; 
season with whole pepper. 

-Musxuroom (/Vhite) Sauce. — Have 
ready some cream sauce, rather thinner 
than usual; to this put a few small white 
mushrooms ; reduce it to the proper con- 
sistence ; it is then ready for use. 

MUSK, to prepare for Liqueurs.*¥— 
Take two grains of musk and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, pound them ina 
mortar and mix them well; keep it in 
aclosely stopped bottle. The quantity 
required of this is one pinch to four or 

‘five quarts of liqueur. 

Ambergris is prepared in a similar 
manner, but being less powerful than 
the musk, four grains is the proportion 
to a quarter of a pound of sugar. 

MUSTARD, fo Make.—Take some of 
the best Durham flour of mustard and 
mix it, by degrees, to a proper thickness 
with boiling water, rubbing it extremely 
smooth ; a d a little salt, and keep it in 
asmall jar closely covered, and only put 
as much into the mustard-pot as will be 
used in-a few days; the mustard-pot 
should be daily wiped round the edges. 

- Musrarp, to Make.* —Take a few 
spoonsful of the flour of mustard, and 
carefully mix it with a little warm water, 
until it is of the consistence of honey ; be 
particular that it is mixed perfectly 
smooth. : 

Musrarp, to Make, forimmediate Use.* 
—Take some mustard, and, by degrees, 
mix it quite smooth with new milk, ad- 
ding a littlecream. Mixed in this man- 
ner it will keep; it is very soft, and not 
in the least bitter, 

Musrarp Sauce,*—Put two glasses of 
stock, shalots shred small, salt and pep- 
per, into a saucepan; let them boil for 
half an_hour, then add a spoonful of 
mustard}; stir it in well, and use it when 
required, 

UTTON (Observations on). —The 
pipe that runs along the bone of the in- 
side of achine of mutton ought to be 
taken away; andif it is to be kept any 


_whole out. v 
garnish with pickles, and serve with 


MUT 


length of time, the part close round the 
tail should be rubbed with salt, previously 
cutting out the kernel. ‘ 

It is best. for the butcher to take out 
the kernel in the fat on the thick part of 
the leg, as that is the part most likely to’ 
become tainted. The chine and rib- 
bones should be wiped every day; and 
the bloody part of the neck be cut off, im 
order to preserve it. The brisket 
changes first in the breast; therefore, if 
it is tobe kept, it is best, should the 
pic popae be hot, to rub it with a little 
salt. 

When intended for roasting, it should 
hang as long as it will keep, the hind 
quarter particularly ; but not so long as 
to become tainted. ; ore 

Mutton for boiling ought not to hang 
long, as it will prevent its looking of a 
good colour. pee 

The greatest care should be taken to 
preserve, by paper, the fat of what is 
roasted. 

Morton, a Basque of.—Put the cau! of 
a leg of veal into a copper dish thesize of 
a small punch-bowl. Chop thelean part 
of aleg of mutton extremely small ; take 
half its weight of beef marrow, the crumb 
of a penny-loaf, the rind of half a Jemon, 
grated, halfa pint of red wine, two an- 
chovies, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix 
all together with the mutton, and fasten. 
itin the caul in the middle of the dish 3 
Bake it in a quick oven, and when done, 
turn the dish upside down, and turn the 
Pour over it a brown gravy 


sweet sauce. 

Morton, Boiled, Turkish Fashion.— 
Cut the meat in slices, wash it in vine- 
gar, put it ina saucepan with whole pep- 
per, rice, and two or three onions; stew 
these very slowly, and skim very often ; 
when it is tender, take out the onions, 
and put sippets in the dish under the 
meat. 

Mutton, Boulettes of, fried.*—Mince 
some cold roasted mutton very small ; 
take a fourth of its weight in sausage- 
meat, some crumb of bread seaked in 
milk, boiled potatoes, sweet herbs, shred 
small, salt and pepper; mix these toge- 
ther with the yolks of two or three eggs. 
Roll this faree into as many balls as you 
think proper, cover them with bread- 
crumbs, and fry them. Serve with sauce 
piquante. . 

Mourron, Breast of, Broiled.*—Boil 
the mutton, and afterwards broil it, hav- 
ing first strewed it over with shred par- 
sley and young onions, some salt, pep- 


‘per, and grated bread-crumbs. 


Murron (Breast of) en Carbonade.*— 
ee the brisket bones, and cut a 


a 


MU T 


breast of mutton into oval-shaped pieces, 
braise them (adding some slices of ham 
to the usual braising materials) for three 
hours. When wanted for the table, drain 
and glaze them. Serve with spinach, 
endive, sorrel, or any thing else. : 

Mutton (Breast of ) Collared.—Take 
a breast of mutton, take off the skin, 
bone it, and roll it up inacollar like a 
breast of veal. - Put a quart of milk and 
a quarter of a pound of butter in the 
dripping: pan, and baste the meat with it 
well whilst it isroasting. Put some good 
gravy intothe dish and into a boat, with 
some currant-jelly in another boat, and 
serve. 

_ Murron (Breast of) a la Ste. Mene- 
hould.*—Braise a breast of mutton in 
the usual way; when done, take it out, 
rub salt and pepper over it, ap it in 
melted butter, bread it thoroughly, and 
broil it over a slow fire, pass a salaman- 
der over it, and serve with a clear gravy. 

Murron (Breast of) aux Petites Ra- 

cines.*—Prepare and braise a breast of 
mutton as directed for Carbonade, and 
when done, drain the pieces, dish them, 
en couronnes, inthe centre of which pour 
the ragoit of carrots. (See Petites Ra- 
eines.) 
'Murron (Breast of) Roasted with 
4Vine.—Skin and bone a breast of mut- 
ton, then roll it up in a collar like a 
breast ofveal. Roast it, and baste it with 
half a pint of red wine ; when you have 
used up all the wine, finish basting with 
butter. Havea little good gravy in rea- 
diness, and when the mutton is done, 
set it upright ina dish, pour inthe gravy, 
prepare sweet sauce the same as for 
venison, and send it up to table without 
any garnish. 

Murron Broth.—Take two pounds of 
scrag of mutton, take out the blood, put 
it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold 
water ; and when the water is lukewarm, 
pour it off, skim it well; then put it in 
again with four or five pints of water, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of 
grits, and an onion; set it on a slow fire, 
and when you have taken all the scum 
off, put in afew turnips, let it simmer 
very slowly for two hours, and strain it 
through a clean sieve. 

Mutton Broth.—Cut a neck of mut- 
ton into pieces, preserving a handsome 
piece to be served up in the tureen; put 
all into a stewpan with three quarts of 
cold: beef stock, or water, with a little 
oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, 
onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and 
a small bunch of thyme and parsley. 
When it boils, skimit clean, and when 
nearly done, take out the piece you in- 
tend to serve in the tureen, and let the 


( 342) 


MUT 


other pieces stew till tender; then have. 
ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks,» 
celery, half a cabbage, some parsley, 
all cut small, and some marigolds; was 

them, strain the liquor off the meat,’ 


skim it free from the fat, add it to the, 


ingredients with the piece of mutton in- 
tended for the tureen, adding a little 
pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer, 
all together till done, and serve with 
toasted bread on a plate. rue 
Mutton, Capilotade of.*—Cut the re+ 
mains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, 
put them into a pan with salt, peppery. 
nutmeg, white wine, stock, and a dessert. 
spoonful of olive oil; when about. half. 
done, add to it two ounces of raspings, 
cover the saucepan close, and let it boil, 
slowly for three or four hours; then pour 
it on_a dish with its liquor and the juice 
of a Seville orange. 
Mutton Chops in disguise.—Take as. 
many chops as you choose, and rubthem 
with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; 
roll each chop in half a sheet of white” 
paper, well buttered on the inside, and 
rolled on each end close; have some hog’s- 
lard or beef dripping boiling in a frying-. 
pan; put in the steaks, fry them ofa nice 
brown, lay them in your dish, and gar- 
nish with fried parsley, throw some all 
over them, and have a little good gravy. 
in a sauce-boat ; but take great care that 
you do not break the paper, nor have 
any fat in the dish, but let: them be well 
drained, te : 
Mutton, to Collar a Breast of.+—Take 
off the skin, bone, and gristle, from a 
breast of mutton; then grate white bread, 
cloves, mace (a small quantity), pepper, 
and salt, the yolks of three-eggs bruised. 
small, and a little lemon-peel, shred. 
fine; make the meat flat, strew the sea-. 
soning over it with four or five anchovies, 
washed and boned; roll the meat up as 
a collar, bind it with a coarse tape, and. 
broil or roast it, cut it in three or four. 
pieces, and serve it up with a good thick 
gravy ; fried oysters, or force-meat balls. 
are an improvement. It is very good 
cold, cut in slices like collared beef. es 
Mutton Collops.—Take all the lean 
from a leg of mutton that bas hung some 
time ; cut it into slices, about the size of 
half an egg; beat them apie flat, and 
fry them lightly in lard, with some 
chopped parsley, shalots, mushrooms, 
pepper, and salt; then put them into a. 
stewpan, adding to the above seasoning; : 
a few slices of veal, and ham, cover them. 
with bacon, and let them simmer for 
about half an hour; put in half a glass 
of white wine, and some stock ; when 
quite done, take out the mutton, drain 
and dish it, add a little cullis to the 





s 
a 
3 





MUT 


sauce, reduce it; skim, and strain it 
over the collops.: 

Murton Collops.—Take a leg of mut- 
ton, which has hung for some time, and 
cut it into thin collops; take out all the 
sinews, season the collops with salt, pep- 
per, beaten mace, some shred parsley, 
thyme, and two shalots; put a large 

iece of butter into a stewpan, and when 
it is quite hot, put in all the collops, and 
keep stirring them with a wooden spoon, 
till they are three parts done; put in 
half a pint of good mutton gravy, some 
lemon-juice, thickened with butter and 
flour; let them simmer four or five mi- 
nutes, not longer, or they will be hard ; 
Jay them in a dish, and pour the sauce 
over them. 

. MutTrTon ore a la Perigord.—Cut 
your mutton in thinner slices than usual, 
put them into a marinade of oil, with 
sweet herbs; having laid in this for 
some time, braise them with the same 
materials as mutton collops, adding mari- 
nade, and chopped truffles. Serve them 
with a ragoiit of the latter. 

._ Morron @ la Coquette.—Cut a neck of 
mutton into pieces, about the size of a 
finger, lard them quite through with ham 
and bacon; simmer them in some stock, 
with sweet herbs; when done, take the 
meat out, reduce and strain the sauce 
over them. Then take some good fowl 
farce, cover each piece of mutton with 
this, wrap the whole in a slice of bacon; 
wash them over with egg, cover with 
bread crumbs, and bake them. 

Mutton Cutlets (broiled) Breaded.*-— 
Trim and season your cutlets with pep- 

er and salt, put them into some meited 
eaaac, and when they have imbibed a 
sufficieut quantity of it, take them aM 


and cover them completely with bread 


crumbs ; give the cutlets a good shape, 
and broil them over a clear fire; take 
care not to do the cutlets too much, to 
burn the bread. 

Mutron Cutlets in Caul.*—Lard and 
braise a dozen mutton cutlets, as for la 
soubise; place a weight on them whilst 
they are cooling; when cold, trim and 
wrap them in onions prepared as follows ; 
cut twelve onions into dice, blanch and 
cool them; then do them upin a little 
butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay- 
leaf, and nutmeg; add to these two 
ladlesful of velouté, stir in the yolks of 
four eggs, and reduce the onions to a 
paste; as soon as it is cold, use it as 
above-mentioned ; besides this, put on 
each cutlet a pig’s caul, lay them ina 
deep dish, and bake them toa nice colour. 
Serve them very hot with a demi glaze. 

Mutton Cutlets with Cucumbers.*— 
Choose your cutlets rather thicker than 


( 343 ) 


MUT 


usual, beat and lard them with bacon; 
rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; put 
them into a pan with a little melted but- 
ter, brown, and then trim them. Linea 
stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, 
two carrots, cut in pieces, three onions, 
two cloves, & bayleaf, a little thyme ; lay 
your cutlets on this, cover them with 
bacon, pour in a ladleful of stock, and. — 
simmer the cutlets in this. In about two. 
hours take them out, drain and glaze 
them, dish them en couwronnes, with cys 
cumbers and cream in the centre. 

Morvron Cutlets and Lettuces.*—Havy- 
ing prepared and dressed the cutlets in 
the same manner as with cucumbers; 
when done, glaze and dish them ¢7 cowe 
ronne, alternately, with lettuces, glazed. 
Serve with a reduced espagnole. 

Murton Cutlets, a la Soubise.*—Pre- 
pare and dress your cutlets, as directed, 
with cucumbers ; dish them en couronnes;’ 
with a purée of white onions in the centres 

Mutton, Curry of.*—Take a fine loin 
of mutton, take off all the fat, cut the 
meat into dice, cut some onions also into 
dice, and fry them; when nearly done, 
add the meat and curry powder (in the 
proportion of a table-spoonful to each 
pound of meat); fry them all lightly ; 
when almost brown, pour in two cupsfull 
of water, put the whole into a stewpan, 
cover, and let it simmer for an hour, or 
more, according to the quantity. Have 
some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate 
dish. Some persons add a little pickle. 

Mutron ((Fillet of) Bratsed.—Take 
off the chump end of the loin, butter 
some paper, and put over it, and paste 
the same as for venison; let it roast for a 
couple of hours. Be careful that it is not 
in the least brown. Have ready some 
French beans boiled, and drained ona 
sieve; and, during the time the mutton 
is being glazed, give them one heat up in 
gravy, and lay them in the dish, and 
serve the meat upon them. 

Murrton (Fillets of ) a la Gelée.—Take 
the /illets from two loins of mutton, lard 
them with bacon, rolled in sweet herbs; 
put them into a stewpan, lined with slices 
of bacon; add the trimmings of the meat, 
two carrots, cut in pieces, two onions, 
each with a clove in it, a good bunch of 
parsley, seasoned, a little salt and whole 
pepper, a glass of madeira, and two 
ladlesful of consommé, cover the whole 
with bacon, and a piece of buttered paper 
the size of the pan. Set it on the fire; 
as soon as it boils, put it aside, with fire 
under and over, to simmer slowly for 
two hours; then take it from the fires 
and let the fid/ets cool in their sauce. 
When nearly cold, drain and press them 
lightly between two dishes, and when 


7 


MUT 


quite cold, cut each fillet in half, glaze 
them all over, dish them, and garnish 
over and round with jelly, disposed ac- 
cording to your fancy. 

Mutton cutlets @ da gelée, are done in 
the same manner, except that they are 
larded both with bacon and ham. 

Murron Hams.—Cut a hind-quarter 
of mutton like a ham, and take an ounce 
of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, 
and the same quantity of common salt, 
mix them together, and rub them well 
into the mutton ; then lay it ina hollow 
tray, with theskin downwards, and baste 
it every day with the pickle for a fort- 
night. Roll it in saw-dust, and hang it 
in wood-smoke for a fortnight. Then 
boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut 
rashers off as you want them ; they eat 
much better broiled than any other way. 

Morrow ( Haricot of).—Cut some mut- 
ton chops rather thicker than for broil- 
ing; trim them nicely, then fry the 
chops in a little butter, of a nice brown 
colour; drain off the butter, and make a 
voux, by putting together, in astewpan, a 
small piece of fresh butter, and a spoon- 


-ful of fine flour, placing them over a mo- 


derate fire, and stirring them with a 
wooden spoon till the flour becomes of a 
good brown colour, moisten with veal 
gravy of a good colour, and well season- 
ed. When your sauce boils, put in the 
chops and the trimmings of your turnips, 
and let them stew gently on the corner of 
the stove. Skim frequently: when the 
chops are nearly done, drain them into a 
clean stewpan ; have ready some turnips, 
cutin neat shapes, but rather large pieces, 
add them to the chops; drain the sauce 
through a sieve, over the turnips and 
chops, then stew them in this sauce with 
a little sugar, and continue to skim fre- 
quently. When the turnips are done, 
keep them hot by the dazn marie till you 
serve. 

Motton Harrico.*—Take a scrag of 
mutton, make some good gravy with 
parsley, thyme, and winter-savory, sliced 
carrots, onions, and shalots and celery, 
some turnips, well boiled and mashed, 
and a crust of white bread, stew all to- 
gether ; then put in some steaks of a neck 
or loin (broiled first), and stew them in 
some time ; season to your taste; strain 
it off, and slice in some carrots, boiled 
separately for that purpose. 

Mutton Hashed a@ la Bourgeoise.— 
Take what meat remains from a roast 
leg of mutton, which has been served the 
day before; cut off the skin, take away 
the coarse fibres, and cut the meat into 
small and thin pieces, put them into a 
saucepan; then reduce a few spoonsful of 
cullis, and put it to the hash, with two 


(344 ) 


MUT 

ounces of butter; warm up the whole, 
taking care that it does not boil, and 
serve with soft poached eggs round. — 

Murton Hashed with Cucumbers.— 
Pare some cucumbers, and take out the 
seeds, then cut them into very thin 
slices ; and let them steep for two hours 
in vinegar and salt; drain them wells; 
put them into astewpan, and keep turn- 
ing them over the fire, with a small piece 
of butter ahd a slice of ham, till they be=- 
gin to take colour, adding a little flour, 
and moistening with equal quantities of 
stock and gravy. If you do not happen 
to have any gravy, let the cucumbers be 
more coloured before they are taken 
from the fire; they should then be stewed 
gently, occasionally skimming off the 
fat; when they are done, add a little cul- 
lis to thicken them. Having thus pre- 
pared your ragofit of cucumbers, take 
any joint of cold roast mutton (the leg is 
the best), cut it into thin slices, and put 
it into the ragofit to heat, but taking care 
not to let it boil. 

Mutton (Hashed)with Fine Herbs.*— 
Cut your meatas directed forhashed mut- 
ton and poached eggs, dress it also in the 
same manner, leave it in the saucepan } 
put two ounces of butter into another 
saucepan, witha dessert spoonful of sha- 
lots, shred small; set them on the fire, 
but do not colour them; then take four 
spoonsful of mushrooms, all shred small, 
give them a few turns, with the shalots 
after which doa dessert spoonful of shred 
parsley: stir them all —- reduce, 
and pour them on the hash; give the 
whole a simmer, and then serve with 
sippets round. 

Murron (Hashed) and Poached 
Eggs.*—Cut the meat from a cold roast- 
ed leg of mutton, take out all the sinews, 
and skin, mince it very small, and put it 
in a saucepan ; reduce’ four spoonsful of 
espagnole to one; pour it over the meat 3 
mix it in well, set it on the fire, but do 
not let it boil; when done, pour it intoa 
dish with fried bread, cut like corks, 
round, and poached eggs on it. ax 

Motron (Haunch of ).—It should be 
kept as long as you can possibly keep it 
sweet by the different modes; and if ne- 
cessary, wash it with warm milk and 
water, or vinegar, and when going to be 
dressed, be careful to wash it well, to pre- 
vent the outside from having a bad fla- 
vour from keeping; before you put the 
haunch to the fire, fold it in a-paste of 
coarse flour, or strong povers then set it 
a good distance from the fire, and allow 
proportionable time for the paste ; do not 
take it off, till about thirty-five or forty 
minutes before serving the mutton, and 
then baste continually; bring the haunch 





a 
; 





MUT 


nearer before taking off the paste, and 
froth it up in the same manner as veni- 
son. For gravy, take a pound anda half 
of loin of mutton, and simmer it in a 
pint of water till reduced to half, use no 
seasoning but salt: brown it with a little 
burnt sugar, and serve it up in the dish ; 
but there should be a good deal of gravy 
in the meat, for though long at the fire, 
the covering and distance will prevent its 
roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly 
sauce. 

, Murron (Leg of.)—If your leg of mut- 
ton is roasted, serve with onion or cur- 
rant-jelly sauce ; if it is boiled, serve with 
caper-sauce and vegetables. In roasting 
or boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually 
allowed for each pound of meat. 

... Murron (Leg of), ad l Anglaise.* — 
Lard the fleshy part of a leg of mutton 
with fat bacon, tie it with packthread, 
and put it into a pot just large enough 
to hold it, with some stock, a bunch of 

arsley, and green onions, a clove of gar- 
ic, three cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, 
some salt and pepper; when it is done, 
let it drain, wipe off the fat with a cloth, 
and serve with a sauce made in the fol- 
lowing manner: put a tumblerful of 
stock, and nearly the same quantity of 
cullis into a stewpan, with some capers 
and anchovies, a little parsley, a shalot, 
and the yolk of an egg boiled hard; let 
the sauce boil a few minutes, and serve 
it with the mutton, 

Mutton (Leg of) & la Bourgeoise.*¥— 
Take a nice round leg of mutton, boneit, 
and lard the inside of it with dardons 
rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; tie it 
up into its original form, and put it into 
a braising-pan, with a dozen carrots, a 
dozen onions, as many potatoes, two bay- 
leaves, two cloves, parsley, scallions, and 
a ladleful of stock or water ; add to these 

_ apound of bacon cut into six pieces, a 
little salt ; simmer it for three hours and 
a half, stirring it occasionally; at the 
end of that time take out the mutton, 
untie, and dish it with the vegetables 
round it. 

. Murron (Leg of), with Cauliflowers 
and Parmesan Cheese.*—Boil a leg of 
mutton @ l Anglaise, then blanch some 
cauliflowers, and. boil them in another 
water, with a bit of butter and a little 
salt; then take the dish you intend to 
serve in, and put into it a little sauce 
made with cullis, a slice of butter, salt, 
coarse pepper, and thickened over the 
fire; putinto the dish with this sauce, 
some grated Parmesan cheese; put the 
mutton in the dish, and pour the remain- 
der of the sauce over it, add more cheese, 
and set the dish upon a stove over a slow 
_fire, under a cover that will admit fire at 


( 345 ) 


MUT 


the top, until it be ofa fine high brown, 
and the sauce thick ; before you serve it 
to table, drain off all the fat. a 

Morton (Leg of) with Endive.*—Cut 
the meat of a cold roasted leg of mutton 
into small thin pieces, and put them into 
a saucepan : blanch the hearts of some 
endive, then press out all the water, cut 
them in pieces, and give them a few 
turns in some butter; add to it afterwards 
three ladlesful of espagnole, the same of 
consommé, a little salt, and whole pep- 
per; reduce, and pour it on the mutton, 
stir them together over the fire, but do 
not let it boil; dish it e duzsson, garnish 
with fried bread, and pour a very little 
espagnole over it. 

Mutton (Leg of) a lEspagnole.— 
Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard 
it quite through with large pieces of 
bacon, seasoned with salt and spices, then 
put it into.a braising-pan, with about a 
dozen onions, and a pint of white wine, 
cover it with paper, and put it into. the 
oven ; when half done, turn it, add half 
a dozen short sausages, cover it again, 
and finish the baking; garnish the meat, 
when served, with onion, skim and strain: 
the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of 
two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. 

Murron (Leg of) a la Gasconne.*— 
Bone a leg of mutton (excepting the 
knuekle); lard it with ten or a dozen 
cloves of garlic, andfas many anchovies 
cut in pieces; spit and roast it; when 
done, serve with a ragofit of garlic as 
follows: put about a pound of garlic into 
a saucepan with some water; let it boil 
up frequently till nearly done; then 
drain, and put it into another saucepan, 
with five spoonsful of reduced espagnole, 
a piece of butter, and a little gravy ; pour 
this ragofit round the mutton. 

Mvrron (Ley of) au Haut-goriit.—Let 
it hang a fortnight in some airy place, 
stuff it with garlic, and rub it over with 
pepper and salt, and then roast. it. 
Sauce: good gravy, with a spoonful of 
wine boiled in it. 

Murrton (Leg of) Marinaded.—Lard 
the upper part of a leg of mutton, and let 
it soak for about twelve hours in a warm 
pickle of water, vinegar, garlic, cloves, 
onions, thyme, bay-leaves, parsley, salt 
and pepper; after it has been this time 
in soak, roast it, basting it with the 
pickle; serve with a_ high-flavoured 


sauce, or, if you like it better, pass the 


marinade through a sieve, reduce it over 
the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add 
a little butter to thicken it, and serve. 
If you intend to use your marinade for 
a sauce, you must put in a very small 
quantity of salt. , f 
Murron (Leg of) Marinaded, Ven- 


MUT 


son Fashion.*—Take a leg of mutton that 
has hung some days, lard the upper side 
with bacon, and lay it in the following 
marinade: vinegar and water, a lemon. cut 
in slices, garlic, nutmeg, cloves, slices of 
onions, coriander bruised, thyme, bay- 
leaf, parsley, scallions, salt and pepper 5 
leave the mutton in this for twenty-four 
hours (or five or six days, if you like) ; 


then take it out, and roast it, basting it 


with the marinade strained ; serve with 
its own gravy. 

Mourron (Leg of) Stuffed.*—Make a 
stuffing with a little beet-suet chopped, 
some 1 thyme, marjoram, a httle 
grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, 
salt, and a few bread crumbs, mix all to- 
gether with the yoik of an egg, put this 
under the skin in the thickest part. of a 
leg of mutton under the flap; then roast 
it, and serve it to table with some good 
gravy in the dish. , 

Mutton (Leg of ) Stuffed with Oys- 
ters.—Make a forcemeat of beef-suet 
chopped small, the yolks of hard boiled 
eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, 
thyme, savory, and some oysters, a 
dozen or fourteen, all cut fine, some 
Salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs 
of bread, mixed up with raw eggs; put 
this forcemeat under the skin in the 
thickest part of the leg of mutton, under 
the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauce, 
some oyster-liquor, a little red wine, an 
anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, 
and served under the mutton. 

Mutron (Loin of ).— Roast it; some 
eople think it eats much better if cut 
ength-ways, like a saddle. It may also 

be used for steaks, pies, or broth, only 
uses care to cut off as much fat as pos- 
siple. * \ 

Morton (Loin of) en Fricandeau.*— 
Trim, and lard a loin of mutton; take the 
trimmings of this, some beef and veal, lay 
them in a stewpan, the mutton on them, 
with carrots, onions, and a bouguet garni ; 
add consommé, and cover it with a but- 
tered paper ; set it first on a brisk, and 
afterwards on a slow fire ; let it stand till 
quite done; then take it out, and drain 
it, take off the skin, glaze, and serve it 


with a ragolit of endive, or a purée of | g 


sorrel. 

Morton (Loin of) Larded with Pars- 
ley.*— Take three loins of mutton, cut 
your fillets from them, leaving out the 
chine ; lard them with very green _pars- 
ley, and soak them in. oil, to which add 
salt and pepper. Pass a skewer through, 
fasten them to the spit, and roast them, 


basting with oil. Half an hour is suffi- 


cient todo them. Serve with the pars- 
ley upwards, and a clear aspic. | 
utTron (Neck of ).—This joint is par- 


( 346 ) 





MUT 


‘ticularly useful, as so many dishes may 
ibe made of it.’ The bone ought to be 


cut short. ; as 

The best end of the neck may be boil- 
ed, and served with turnips; or if yow 
think proper, it may be roasted, or 


‘dressed in steaks, or made into pies, or 


used for harrico. . . 
You may stew the scrags in broth; or 
in a little water, with small onions, 
some peppercorns, and a small quantity 
of rice, all served together. a4 Sik 
When you wish that a neck which is to 
be boiled should look particularly well; 
saw down the chine bone, strip the ribs’ 
half way down, and chop off the ends of 
the bones, about four inches. nye 
To make the fat look particularly 
white, the skin should not be taken off . 
till it is boiled. ’ y oe 
The fat belonging to the neck or loin 
of mutton, if chopped very fine, makes a 
most excellent suet-pudding, or crust for 
@ meat pte. 
Mutton (Neck of) Larded with Ham: 
and Anchovies.—Take the fillet of a neck 


of mutton, and lard it quite through with 


ham and anchovies, first rolled in chop< 
ped parsley, shalots, sweet herbs, pepper 
and salt. Then let it braise or stew im 
a little stock, with a glass of white winey 
When done, skim and strain the sauee, 
add a little cullis, to give it the proper 
consistence. Squeeze m the juice of half 
a lemon, and pour this sauce over the: 
meat, and serve. i Lae bed 

Mutton (Neck of) ad la Ste. Mene= 
hould.*—Take two necks of mutton, ent 
off the serags; tie them up, and braise 
them in bacon, with three carrots, four 
onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, 
two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two 
cloves, and some mutton or veal trim~ 
mings ; moisten them either with stock 
or water, add salt, and set them on the 
fire to simmer for four hours 3 then take 
them out, season with salt and peppere 
Dip them in melted butter, cover them 
completely with bread crumbs, and about 
an hour before dinner, broil three sides 
of them, and colour the fourth with the 
salamander. Serve them with a clear 


ravy. “a : 
Murton (Neck of) with Parsley.*—= 
Take either a neck, loin, or saddle of 
mutton, trim it, and lift up the skim 
underneath, larding the whole with 
sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the 
spit to roast, and when the parsley is 
thoroughly well dried, baste it very 
fe seer? bit bape — the 
meat is done ; then toss up a lit | Aiea 
with some shalots cut small, t and 
pepper, and serve it with the meat. 
Morro (Neck of) with Roots, * — 








MUT 


Having prepared your mutton by cutting 
off the scrag end, and tying it up, put 
some slices of bacon, any meat trim-. 
mings, four carrots, five onions, (one of | 
them stuck with three cloves), two bay- 
leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley 
and scallions, into a stewpan ; put in the 
mutton, cover it with bacon, moisten | 
them with stock or water, add salt to. 
your taste, and set the stewpan on a 
brisk fire; as soon as it boils, lessen the | 
fire, and let the meat stew four hours. | 
When quite done, drain the mutton, dish, 
and pour the carrots, dressed en petites | 
races, over it. 


» Murton (Neck or Serag of ).*—Stew | 


a neck or scrag of mutton in a braising- 
pan, with some steck, a bunch of herbs, | 
pepper and salt: you may serve it with | 
a ragoiit of turnips, cucumbers, or celery, | 
or with any sauce you think proper, or | 
you may broil it like the breast of mut-. 
fon. - 
» Murron Pasty, to eat.as nice as Veni- 
son.—Take a fat loin of mutton, and let | 
it hang for several days, then bone it. : 
Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub | 
ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, and pour over it one) 
glass of port, and one glass of vinegar. | 
Let it lie for five days and five nights ; 
after which, wash and wipe the meat 
very dry, and season it highly with) 
Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and {salt. | 
Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds 
put one pound of butter, spreading it 
over the meat. Put a crust round the 
edge of the dish, and cover with a thick 
crust, otherwise it will be over-done 
before the meat is soaked; it must be 
baked in a:slow oven. 

Put the bones in a pan in the oven, 
with just sufficient water to cover them, 
and one glass of port, a:small quantity of 

epper and salt; by this means you will 
ine a little rich gravy to add to the 
pasty when drawn. 


. Sugar givesa greater shortness to meat, | 


and a better flavour than salt, too great | 
a quantity-of which hardens the meat. | 
‘Sugar is quite as great a preservative. | 

Motron Pie.—Take off the meat from | 
part of a loin.of mutton, cut it into chops, | 
and season with pepper and salt. Puta 
layer of chops into a deep dish, and upon | 


them some slices of peeled potatoes, and. 


some thin slices of onion; put the re-) 
maining chops over, cover with puff-. 
paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The, 
shops may 


er large raised crusts, with potatoes, and 
«ullis added when baked. : 
- ‘Murron (raised) Pie Mélé.—Take the | 
best part of a leg of mutton, and mince 


( 347 ) 






| hours. 











be passed with sweet herbs, | 
&ec., and when cold, put into small. 





MUT 


with any sort of poultry, meat, or game, 
you may find convenient ; also mince half 
a pound of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, 
truffles, pistachio nuts, four or five yolks 
of hard eggs ; mix with these all sorts 
of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of 
brandy; make a good raised crust, into 
which put the above; cover, and bake 
the pie in a moderate oven five or six 
Serve it eold. 

Murron, Polpettes of.*—Take the lean 
of any joint of cold reasted mutton, pare 
off the skin, and mince the meat.with a 
little grated bacon and calf’s udder 3 sea- 
son with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few 
mushrooms and parsley, shred small ; 
unite them together with the yolks of 
three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen 
balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, and 
bread them twice. Flatten these balls a 
little, and fry them in clarified butter’ 
when done, drain and place them on the 
dish. Serve them with tomata sauce or 
demi glaze. 

Murton Pudding.—Cut some slices 
from.a leg of mutton that has been under 
done, and put them into a basin lined 
with a nice suet crust. Season them 
well with pepper, salt, and finely-shred 
onion or shalot. 

Mourtron Pudding.—Put a_ layer .of 
steaks at the bottom of a dish, and sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and a bit ofonion3 
then pour a batter of potatoes, boiled 
and pressed through a cullender, and 
mixed with milk and an egg, over them 3 
then put another layer of steaks and 
more batter, and bake it. 

Mutron Rolis,enGratin.—Cut a neck 
or leg of mutton into slices about. the 
thickness of a crown piece, lay them se- 
parately on a dish, covered with chopped 
parsley, shalots, scallions, and mush- 
rooms; season them with salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg, and pour a sufficient quan- 
tity of oil over to cover them. When 
they have laid in this an hour, have 
some good fowl! or veal farce; put a piece 
about the size of a wa]nut between each 
two slices of mutton, tie them together 
and braise the whole; when about half 
done, adda glass of white wine. 

Take the crumb from as many small 
rolls as you have parcels of mutton, which 
untie and put into the crusts; take some 
farce made of - poultry, livers, grated 
bacon, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs 3 
put a layer of it on a dish for table (one 
that will bear the fire), place the rolls on 
it,and set it on the fire to make: the 
gratin. When ready for table, pour 
some cullis over the rolls, and serve 
them with a ‘clear ‘sauce and lemon- 
juice. 


Mutton Rumps, @ la Braise. —Take 


M U T 


six mutton rumps, and boil them fora 
‘quarter of an hour; then take them out 
and cut them in two, and put them into 
a stewpan with halfa pint of good gravy, 
a glass of white wine, an onion stuck 
with cloves, a little cayenne pepper, and 
salt; cover them close, and stew till they 
are tender; then take out the onion, 
thicken the gravy with a little ~-butter 
relled.in flour, putina little rowx and 
the juice of halfalemon; boil it up till it 
is syaooth, taking care that itis not too 
thick; put in the rumps, give them a 
toss or two, and dish them up hot. Gar- 
nish with herse-radish and beet-root. 

Morron Rumps (Entrée of ).— Clean 
the rumps, and braise them till nearly 
done; then fry slips of bread the same 
breadth and length; puta rump oneach 
piece of bread, and over it grated Par- 
mesan cheese; and upon the whole a 
little mustard, butter, and cullis, mixed 
together; strew at the top some fine 
bread-crumbs. Bake the rumps till 
tender, and serve them in a little con- 
sommé thickened with the yolks of two 
eggs and a gill of cream. : 

Murron Rumps and Kidneys.—Boil 
half a dozen rumps, then stew them in 
some mutton gravy, more than will cover 
them; let them stew gently for half an 
hour, then take them up and let them 
stand to cool; putinto the gravy a quarter 
of a pound of boiled rice, an onion. stuck 
with cloves, anda blade of mace; let it 
boil till the rice is very thick; take the 
rumps, and rubthem over with the yolk 
of an egg well beat up, and then roll 
them in bread-crumbs, a little pepper, 
salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel 
grated, anda very little thyme; fry them 
in butter till they are of a nice brown. 
Whilst the rampsare stewing, lardsome 
kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven 
to roast. 

When the rumps are fried, drain them; 
pour the fat out of the frying-pan, and 
putin the rice; stirit all together round 
the pan, and then lay the rice in a dish; 
lay the rumps round upon the rice, the 
narrow ends to meet in the middle; boil 
four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, 
and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon 
the rice between the rumps. 

IMiurron Rumps Marinaded. — Clean 
and cut the rumps into equal lengths, 
and lay them in a pan, in the mari- 
nade liquor for one night, then pass them 
in butter till nearly done; lay them ona 
dish to cool, wash them over with yolk of 
egg, and strew them over with bread 
crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling 
lard till done, and of a nice colour. 
Drain them dry, and serve them up with 


( 348 ) 


MUT 


a very good seasoned cullis sauce, with 
ketchup in it. — he 

Mutton (Saddle of) Baked.*—Pre- 
pare and dress a saddle of mutton, in 


every respect as for a remove (see that. 


article) ; when cold, take off the skin, 
trim and season it with pepper and salt; 
brush it all over with melted butter, 


-bread it, and then let it cool; put a quar- 


ter of a pound of butter into a basin, 
break ten eggs on it, add: pepper and 
salt; beat them together well, and wash 
the saddle over with it completely, and 
cover it well with the bread; put the 
saddle on a baking-tin, and put it in the 
oven, which must not be too hot, or it 
will spoil] the colour of the mutton. 

Mutton (Saddle of) Braised.*—Take 
the half of a saddle of mutton, and bone 
it, season the inner part with salt and 
pepper, roll it up to the form of a long 
square, tie it up and drazse it for two 
hours and a half; when ready for table,. 
raise the skin and glaze it; put in the 
dish any purée or sauce you please. 

Murton (Saddle of) Breaded a ? An- 
glaise.*—Take a saddle of mutton, and 
braise it as directed (see this joint 
Braised), and when done, season with 
pepper and salt, dip it in melted butter 
and bread it, then let it cool. Put an 
ounce of butter into a saucepan, as soon 
as it is melted, mix with it three eggs 
and a little salt; soak the saddle coms 
pletely in this, roll it well in bread- 
crumbs, give ita good form, and about 
three-quarters of an hour before dinner 
broil it slowly, colour the top with a sala- 
mander. Serve the saddie with a clear 
gravy. . 

Mutton (Saddle of) as a Remove.*— 
Take a whole saddle of mutton, let it be 
fat and well covered with skin; bone 
the ribs to the spine, season the udder 
part with pepper, salt, and pounded 
spice ; fill each side with the meat from 
a leg of mutton, roll it in, taking care to 
make both the same size; tie it up, and 
braise it, adding the ribs and leg-bone, 
for five hours; then drain and untie it, 
strip all the skin from the top, and either 
glaze or cover it with shred parsley: 
serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish 
your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or 
carrots. pred 

Mutton Sausages.—Take a pound of 
the rarest part of a leg of mutton which 
has been either roasted or boiled 5 chop 
it very fine, and season it with pepper, 
salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six 
ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs 
two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all 
chopped very small; a quarter of a 
pound of grated bread, some of the an- 





oS nan 
ee eee 





MUT 


cHovy-liquor, and the yolks and whites 
of two eggs well beaten. When tho- 
roughly mixed, put ali into a little pot, 
and use it by rolling it into little balls, 
or of a sausage shape, and fry them. 
A little shalot, or garlic, is a great im- 
provement. 

Murron (Shoulder of ) Roasted.—Serve 
with onion sauce. You may, if you 
choose, broil the blade-bone. 

‘“Mourron (Shoulder of ) Baked.*—Lard 
a shoulder of mutton with streaked ba- 
con, put it into an earthen stewpan pro- 
portioned to the size of the joint of meat, 
with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip 
and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two 
cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil; 
add about a quarter of a pint of water or 
stock (stock is the best), some salt and 
pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and 
set it in an oven. hen the meat is 
done, strain the sauce through a sieve, 
and skim it, squeezing the vegetables so 
as to make a purée to thicken your 
sauce: serve the sauce with the meat. 

‘Mutton (Shoulder of), Broiled.—Take 
a shoulder of mutton that has hung some 
days, lard and braise it with the usual 
seasoning; when nearly done, take 
it out, mix some sweet herbs shred 
small, with grated bread; cover your 
mutton with this, lay it on the gridiron, 
and broil it slowly, moistening it occa- 
sionally, with a little of the braise liquor. 
When quite done, dish it, serve witha 
cullis and vinegar, or verjuice. 

Mutton (Shoulder of ) ad la Méné- 
houlde.*—Stew a shoulder of mutton with 
alittle stock, a bunch of parsley, and 
young onions, a clove of zarlic, a bay- 
leaf, some thyme, basil, onions, carrots, 
pepper and salt; as soon as the mutton 
1s done, take it out of the stewpan, drain 
and put it in the dish you intend to 
serve in; pour overitathick sauce, made 
with two spoonsful of cullis, alittle flour 
and butter, and the yolks of three eggs 
thickened over the fire; then strew 
grated bread over the mutton, and baste 
it carefully with the fat of the stew, 
browning the surface with a hot salaman- 
der. Serve with a clear shalot sauce 
e simply with a little gravy, pepper and 
salt. 

Mutton (Shoulder of), with Onions 
Glacées.* — Bone a plump shoulder of 
mutton to the shank bone ; lard the in- 
‘terior with seasoned bacon, add salt and 

epper; roll it up in the shape ofa bal- 

oon, tie it, and braise it (bones also) for 
three hours and a half; then untie and 
place it in a dish; glaze, and serve it 
with glazed onions, and areduced éspag- 


nole. 
Mutton (Shoulder of), a la Parme.— 


( 349 ) 


MUT 


Braise a shoulder of mutton ; then take 
some rice, boiled quite soft in broth, lay 
it pretty thickly on a dish, place the mut- 
ton on it; mix dry currants with the 
remainder of the rice, cover your meat 
with it; strew grated Parmesan cheese 
over the whole, and set it in a moderate 
oven; when ofa nice colour, take it out, 
and serve with a clear sauce. 

Murron (Shoulder of), with Rice— 
Take a shoulder of mutton, and half boil 
it; then put it in a stewpan, with two 
quarts of mutton gravy, a quarter of a 
pound of rice, a tea-spoonful of mush- 
room powder, with a little beaten mace, 
and let it stew till the rice is tender ; 
then take up the mutton, and keep it 
hot; put to the rice halfa pint of cream, 
and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir 
it well round the pan, and let it boil a 
few minutes; lay the mutton in the dish, 
and serve it over the rice. 

Mutton (Shoulder of) en Saucisse.*— 
Bone a shoulder of mutton; spread it 
upon a board, and put over it about the 
thickness of a crown piece with veai 
forcemeat, and over that some pickled 
gherkins, and ham, cut in thin slices; 
spread another layer of forcemeat over 
the ham and gherkins, merelyto prevent 
their falling off; then roll up the meat; 
wrap it very tight in a linen cloth, and 
stew it with a little stock, a bunch of 
parsley, and green onions, a clove of gar- 
lic, three cloves, some onions, carrots, 
parsnips, pepper and salt. When the 
meat is done, skim and strain the sauce. 
Adda spoonful of cullis, if the sauce ts 
too thin, and serve it over the mutton. 

Morron (Shoulder of ) Stewed uth 
Oysters.—Let it hang for some days, then 
salt it well for two days; bone it. and 
sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace 
pounded 3 ley some oysters over, and roli 
the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it in 
alittle water, with an onion, and a few 
pepper corns, until it is quite tender, 
Have ready a little good gravy, and some 
oysters stewed in it; thicken it with 
some flour and butter, and when the tape 
is taken off the mutton, pour this sauce 
over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan 
closely covered. 

Mortron (Slices of) en Chevreuil.— 
Cut twelve thin slices of mutton neatly, 
and lard them with bacon; letthem soak 
in vinegar mixed with spices, a bunch of 
parsley, and an onion cut in slices, for 
three days; when you wish to use the 
meat, cook it+in a thick sauce till of a 
good colour, and serve it with a sauce @ 
la potvrade. 

Murron (Slices of) with Cream.*—Cut 
a roasted loin of mutton into slices, 
dean into a stewpan; cliop up some 


MYR 


small onions, do them with a quarter of 
pound of fresh butter, and a little stock ; 
and when nearly dissolved, add half a 
pint of good cream, salt and pepper ; let 
it boil five minutes, then put in the mut- 
ton, make them quite hot, but they must 
not boil. Servethem quickly, | 

. Morton (Slices of) 4 la Dauphine.* — 
Cut a loin of mutton into slices, about 
four inches long, lard them with streaked 
bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and ginger, 
and couk them in a tightly closed sauce- 
pan, Make a farce, with veal sweet- 
breads, fat livers, bacon, and sweet herbs, 
all chopped small; mix spices with the 
farce, and cover each of the slices with it 
(about half an inch in thickness); tie a 
slice of bacon round each carefully, and 
bake them. 

Motron Steaks, Broiled.—Cut. some 
mutten steaks from the loin, about half an 
inch thick, take off the skin, and part 
of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, 
rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks 
(place the gridiron over the fire aslant), 
turn. the steaks frequently; when they 
are done, put them into a hot dish, rub 
them with a little butter ; slice a shalot 
very thin into a spoonful of water, and 
pour it on them; add a little ketchup ; 
garnish with scraped horse-radish, and 
pickles, and send them up hot to table. 

Murrow Steaks & la Maintenon.—Half 
fry the steaks, and while hot, stew them 
with herbs, crumhs, and seasoning ; put 
them in paper immediately, and finish 
on the gridiron. Take care that the 
paper does not catch ; to prevent which 
rub a bit of butter on first. 

Mutton, TFourle of.—Cut the meat of 
a neck of mutton into thin slices; also 
slice some onions 3 linea dish with puff 
paste, at the bottom of which, put a layer 
of godiveau ; place some of the mutton 
on this, then a part of the onions, season 
with pepper and salt; on these, put ano- 
ther layer of godiveau, then the mutton, 
onions, and so on, alternately, till all is 
used; then cover them with butter, and 
thin slices of bacon; lay a crust over, 
and bake it about an hour and a half, or 
more, according to its size. When done, 
remove the top, take out the bacon, skim 
it well, and pour in some cullis, in which 
a little mustard is mixed; take care the 
sauce runs into all parts; replace the 
top, and serve it. 

MYRTLE, Ozl of.*—Put two ounces 
of peach leaves, and the half of.a nutmeg, 
bruised, into six quarts of brandy ; distil 
from this ina .bazn_ marie alembic your 
liqueur, in which, infuse half a pound 
of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve 
five pounds of sugar in three quarts of 
pure river water ; the moment it begins 


( 350) 


NEA. 


to boil, take it from the fire, and let it . 
coo] ; take the myrtle flowers from the. 
liqueur, and put in the sugar; mix them. 
well, colour it with tincture of saffron, 


strain and bottle it. 


N. 


NASTURTIUMS Pickled.—As soon 2s, 
the blossoms are off, gather the little 
knobs; put them into cold water with some 
salt; shift them once a day for three suc 
cessive days ; make a cold pickle of white, 
wine vinegar, a little white wine, shalot, 
pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut mm 
quarters, and horse-radish ; and put your. 
nasturtium buds into this pickle. | 

NEAT’S Feet Fried.—Bvuil your neat’s. 
feet, and blanch them, split them; then 
fry them in clarified butter, or take out 
the bone, and fry them in butter with a. 
little salt, and some good stock ; when 
you have fried them a little, put in some 
mint, thyme, and parsley, shred small, 
and some beaten pepper ; beat the yolks 
of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice 
of lemon, or orange, aud nutmeg, pour 
the sauce uponit,andserve. 

Neat’s Foot Pudding. —Boil a couple 
of neat’s feet till they are tender, mince 
the meat small, withan equal quantity of 
beef-suet ; season them with salt, cinna- 
mon, and sugar, mince a quarter cf a 
pound of orange-pee] very fine, put in’ 
two handsful of grated bread, six or eight. 
eggs, and currants at pleasure; mix all 
these well together: butter a pudding- 
bag, put in your pudding, tie it up close, 
and let.it boil for two hours; serve with 
sweet sauce. : 

Neart’s Foot to Roast.—Boil and blanch 
it, and let. it stand till it is cold, then 
lard it, fasten it on asmall spit, and baste 
it with butter, vinegar, and nutmeg; for 
sauce, toast some bread; soak it in claret. 
and vinegar, strain it, put the liquor into 
a pipkin, and put in a few cloves, ginger, | 
and pounded cinnamon 3 set it on the 
fire, stir it with a branch of rosemary, ~ 
till it is pretty well thickened; dish the 
foot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. | 

Neat’s Tongue en Bresailles.*—Par- 
boil a neat’s tongue in water, then take 
off the skin, and cut the tongue into small 
thin slices, about the size of halfa crown $ 
put them into a stewpan, with parsley 
young onions, and mushrooms, the whole 
cut small, add whole pepper, and sweet 
oil; put it over a very slow fire, adding a. 
glass of white wine.as soon as it begins to. 
boil, when quite done, add a little cullis; 
if it peut not be sufficiently, highly. 
flavoured, you may add in serving, the. 
juice of a lemon. - 





ee ae ee eee ee 


ee ee eee 








NEA 

Near’s Tongue in Caul.—Boil a 
tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, 
and split it, without separating itin two; 
fry some sliced onions in fresh hog’s-lard, 
ut to them two or three spoonsful of 


6g’s-blood, about @ quarter of a pound 


of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and 
salt; simmer this; stirring continually, 
until the blood is well mixed; lay a caul 
in the bottom of your dish, and spread 
‘upon it part of this preparation ; then 
place in the tongue, and cover it with the 
remainder; roll it up if the caul, and 
garnish the dish with bread-crumbs: 
lastly, put it into the oven to bake, and 
take a good colour; clean the dish free 
from fat, and serve it under a sauce, made 
with a little cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. 


Near’s Tongue @ Ul’ Ecarlate:— Tho-. 


roughly rub a neat’s tongue with two 
ounees of saltpetre in powder; put it 
into an earthen-pan with salt, pepper, 
a bay-leaf and thyme, and soak it in this 
brine for five or six days}; when you wish 
to use the tongue, put it in water for 
three hours, then blanch it in boiling 
water, and taking it out, boil it in another 
vessel bya slow fire, for two or three 
hours, adding at the same time a third of 
its brine, with carrots, onicns, cloves, 
salt, pepper, and a sufficient quantity of 
water, When done, take it off the fire, 
leaving it to cool in its sauce; serve. 

Near’s Tongue (Fresh), in a Plain 
Way—Lard a tongue with tolerable- 
sized lardons, and boil it in broth, or in 
water, with a few onions and roots; when 
it is done, peel it, and serve it with broth, 
sprinkling it over with a little pepper and 
galt; it is also used without larding, and 
being boiled fresh in this manner, is con- 
sidered very good for mince-pie meat. 

Neat’s Tongue Fried.—Boil it, then 
eut it into thin slices, season it with nut- 
meg, cinnamon, and sugar 5 dip the slices 
of tongue into yolks of eggs, adding a 
littte lemon-juice; make some butter 
very hot in a frying-pan, fry your tongue, 
and pour the eggs in by spoorsful; and 
when they are done, serve them up with 
white wine, butter and sugar, well beaten 
together. 

Neat’s Tongue en Gratin.*—Blanch 
a neat’s tongue, and put it into a stew- 
pan, and let it boil with any other meat 
till the skin will come off easily; then 
ett itinto pieces, aud shred small some 

arsley, green onions, some tarragon 
leaves, a few shalots, a few capers, and 
one anchovy; then mix a handful of 
grated bread crumbs, with a piece of 
butter half the size of an egg, and a part 
of the herbs that have been shredded, and 
arrange them in a dish that will bear the 
fire ; upon these crumbs and herbs, &c., 


(31) 


%, 


i. i 
NEA 


place half the slices of tongue, seasoning 
with salt and coarse pepper ; moisten the 
whole with thrée or four spoonsful of 
stock and half a glass of wine; let the @ 
whole stew over a stove till it forms a 
gratin at the bottom of the dish; when 
you serve, add a little moré stock to 
serve as a sauce, 
Neat’s Tongue and Parmesan Cheese. 
—Boil a tongue in plain water, and finish 
it in a braise, with a little salt ; take off the 
skin, let it cool, then cut it in slices ; put 
a little cullis and Parmesan into the dish 
in Which you intend to serve, with some 
of the torigue slices; then put_a little 
more cullis and Parmesan, and so on, 
taking caré that the cheese is put on the 
last; bake it of a good colour, either in a 
Dutch 6r common oven, and add a little 


tongues that look red out of the acs 


Neat’s Tongue Pie, with Raised or 
Puff Pasté.—Scald 4 tongue, and boil it 
in plain water; when almost done, peel 
it, and cut it in slices; make what paste 
you please ; put the slices of tongue upon 
it, with pepper and salt, two good slices 
of ham,a bunch of parsley, a clove of 
gatlic, three heads of cloves; thyme, and 
a bay-leaf; cover it with slices of bacon 
and butter, and put it in the oven to 
bake; when done, take out the bacon and 
parsley, skim the fat off very clean, an 
add a Spanish sauce, or any other that 
you may think better. 

Neat’s Tongue Ragodt. —Lard a 
tongue with large lardons, and braise it 
ina light bréise, with broth, a bunch of 
parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, two heads of 
cloves, one oftgariic, onions, and roots 5 
peel it, and split it in two; serve upon it 
at: onda you think proper, suchas 


te 


war, 


y* 


N E-C 


sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, small 
onions, &c. 

Near’s Tongue Roasted. —Scald a 
tongue, parboil it in broth or water, with 
salt and pepper, two onions, carrots, 
parsnips, a faggot, two cloves, garlic, a 
bay-leaf, and thyme; when boiled enough 
to peel, take it out, lard itas a fricandeau, 
and finish it in roasting. Serve under it 
‘a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. 
“Neat’s Tongue Roasted, a la Fran- 
¢aise.—Hoil a neat’s tongue, and blanch 
it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a hole 
in the under part, and take out the meat, 
mince ‘it with two or three hard eggs, an 
apple, beef-suet, and bacon ; season with 
‘salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, 
shred very fine; stuff the tongue with 
this forcemeat; then cover the end with 
a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast 
it; serve with a sauce made of gravy, 
butter, and the juice of oranges, garnish 
the dish with sliced lemon-peel and bar- 
berries. 

Neat’s Tongue, with Truffles.—Boil 
a pickled neat’s tongue two hours; take 
off the skin, let it remain till cool; ther 
cut a-large incision in the under part, 
and fill it with light forcemeat, with some 
green truffles pounded in it, sew it up, 
trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of 
egg, and cover it with paste made with 
beef-marrow, instead of. butter; after- 
wards wash the paste over with white of 
egg, ornament it in the same manner as 
a raised pie, with the remaining part of 
the paste, then bake it till tender, in a 
moderately heated oven, and serve it up 


with truffle sauce under, or it may be 


served with stewed spinach or turnips. 
It may be eaten with chickens, turkey, 
or roast veal. 
NECTARINES (Conserve of ).— Peel 
ripe nectarines, slice, and boil them to a 
marmalade, with a drop of water; reduce 


it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quarter 


of a pound of the marmalade to a pound 
of sugar, @ la grande plume, (ninth de- 
gree,) and work it well together, when 
it begins to cool, and finish as all others. 

Necrakine Jce.—Use either marma- 
lade or jelly, (which is made the same as 
peach or apricot jelly), or, if when necta- 


- rines are in season, cut seven or eight of 


them when quite ripe, bruise them, boil 
them in a pint of water; then sift them; 
puta sufficient quantity of sugar to the 
sifted juice; and finish the same as all 
others. 

_ Necrarines to. Keep.*—This fruit is 
bottled in a similar manneggto apricots; 
the nectarines should be gathered per- 
fectly ripe, and the skin staken off with 
great care. & 

’ Necrarines to Preserve. — Split the 

- 


- 


Pinal 


- 


( 352 ) 


NOU 


nectarines, and take out the stcnes, then 
put them into clarified sugar; boil thenr 
till they have thoroughly taken the 
sugar, take off all the scum, cover them 
with a paper, and set them by; the fol- 
lowing day boil a little more sugar'to a 
strong soufié, put it to the nectarines, and 
give them a good boil ; take off the scum, 
cover them, and put them into the stove; 
the next day drain them, and lay them 
out to dry, having previously dusted 
them a little with sugar, then put them 
into the stove again. i. (en 
Necrarines (Liguid Sweetmeat of). 
—The nectarines should be almost ripe 3 
peel and cut them in halves, simmer 
them in boiling water till they rise on 
the surface, and then drain them; boil 
them in clarified sugar till there is no 
longer any scum rises, and leave them 
therein till the next day; then drain them, 
and boil the sugar to the seventh degre 
add the fruit to it to boil a moment, an 
repeat the same again the following day ; 
let the fruit and sugar incorporate to- 
gether for a couple of days, before you 
put them into pots, and keep the pan in 
a warm place; the proportion of fruit and 
sugar in equa! quantities. 
NIVERNOISE.*—T ake thirty small 
carrots, and cut them into pieces like 
olives, scald them for abeut five mi- 
nutes; drain, cool, and then put them 
into a stewpan, with sufficient plain or 
root consommé to cover then}; let the 
whole boil until the carrots are done, 
and well incorporated with the liquor ; 
then use it with the articles requiring it. 
NONPAREIL.* —Poppy seeds sugar- 
ed in the manner directed under the 
articles Suwgared Seeds, are called Non- 
pareiils; they are tinged of different 
colours, by the introduction of the vari- 
ous colouring materials into the sugar 
with which they are covered. 
NOUGAT.* — Blanch and wash a 
pound of sweet almonds, and having 
drained them well, eut each into five 
slips, which place in a gentle oven to dry; 
let them be all equally coloured of a clear 
yellow; in the meantime, put three 
quarters of a pound of fine sugar intoa 
preserving pan, set it on a stove, stirring 
with a wooden spoon until completely 
dissolved ; then take the almonds out of 
the oven, and whilst hot throw them into 
the liquid sugar: mix them together 
well. Have ready a mould well oiled, of 
any shape you think ald Fa in the in- 
terior of which place the slips of almonds, 
by means of lemon-juice, when the whole 
is covered, remove the mould carefully, 
and serve the Nougat. ‘ 
Noueats a la Frangaise.* — Having 
blanched three quarters, of a pound of 








. NUT 
filberts, separate each nut in half, lay 
them on a tin-plate, and place them ina 
slow oven: move them occasionally, that 
they may all be equally coloured; and 
when they are tinged sufficiently; remove 
them to the mouthof the oven. Put. six 
ounces of sugar and a glass of water into 
& preserving pan, boil them to caramel, 
pour the filberts into this, stirring them 
very lightly lest they should break. As 
soon as the nougat assumes a clear red- 
dish tinge, pour it on a buttered tin, over 
which spread it as quickly as possible, 
and strew on its surface sugar a la gréle, 
and pistachios, (cut in slips, and dried in 
the oven), lay it about eight inches long, 
six wide, and of an equal thickness all 
over; take care not to press it too much 
with your hands. When cold enough to 
resist the knife, and yet sufficiently warm 
not to break, cut it into about thirty 
pieces, all of the same size, arrange them 
tastefully on a dish, and serve. 

NOUILLES, Potage of.*—Take three 
quarters of a pound of flour, the yolks of 
four eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little wa- 
ter; mix these together, and knead it 
weli until the paste is fit toroll; lay it 
out quite thin, and then cut it into slips; 
flour them well to prevent their sticking 
together; have boiling some good stock, 
into which throw the nowtlles; half an 
hour is sufficient to do them; skim the 
soup well, and add, just before it is put 
into the tureen, some whole pepper; 
serve it as usual. : 

Nouilles may also be made with the 
whites instead of the yolks of eggs; nut- 
meg and pepper may be added to the 
paste, if agreeable. 

NOYAU, Lnglish.* — Two gallons of 
gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one 
poundf sweet almonds, both beaten to a 
fine paste ; six pounds of lump sugar, 
pounded (some of it with the almonds). 
Let these stand ten days in the gin, then 
filter it through blotting paper, and 
bottle it. : 

NUT Bomboons. — Boil a pound of 
Spanish nuts; when they are well boiled, 
rub off their skin with a napkin, if some 
stick too hard, pare it off with a knife ; 


grate your nuts very fine on a sheet of | 
paper; then take a pound of powdered | 
sugar toa pound of nuts, put it ina pan | 
over a slow fire; when your sugar is all } 
melted (you must stir it constantly with | 1 
i -manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal 
‘instead of flour, and three 
| water instead of two: pull the dough into 
pieces, roll and finish the cakes as di- 
| rected for muffins. When wanted, pull 
the edges apart, toast them nicely on 
‘both sides, and then open them com- 


a wooden spoon) put your nuts in, and 
work them well till all is well mixed 
and pour it upon a tin plate ; then spread 
it with a rolling pin, this must be done 
very quickly, as it cools very fast; when 
it is cold, cut it into what form yon 
please ; you must take care the sugar is 


( 353 ) 


fall scum, and reduced to a good 





OAT 


not too much melted, for it is very apt to 
soften when the nuts are added to it. 
Nuts Pralined. — Take a pound of 
Spanish nuts, take them out of their 
shells, and put them into a pan, with a 
ound of loaf sugar, and a little water ; 
et them boil till they begin to sparkle 5 


| then take them off the fire, and stir them 
well with a wooden spoon, till you per- 
| ceive the sugar turns gravelly; then set 
| them again over a slow fire, to dissolve 
| the sugar; keep stirring, that the sugar 
may stick to the nuts, and when you see 


them turn reddish, and are well covered 
with sugar, take them off, pour them into 
asieve, cover them with a clean cloth, 
and put them into a stove ; this will pres 
serve their gloss. ‘ee! 

NUTMEGS to Candy.—Take a pound 
and a half of double refined sugar, half a 
quarter of a pint of damask rase-water, 
and a very little gum arabic ; boil these 
toa candy height; let your nutmegs be 
first soaked in water ; then putthem into 
an earthen pan, pour your candy to 
them, keep them very close covered, set 
them in a warm place for about three 
weeks,and they will be ofa rock candy. 

Nutmec Syrup.—Take a quarter of a 
pound of nutmegs, pound them, and put 
them into a stewpan, witha pint and a 
half of hot water, and let them boil for 
halfan hour; then strain, and toa pint 
of liquor, put two pounds of sifted sugar, 
and one egg, beaten up with a little cold 
water; set it over a fire, and when it 
boils, skim it till it is perfectly free from 
syrup, 
and, when cold, mix with it half a pint of 
brandy. 

Nutrmee, Tincture of. — Take three 


‘ounces of nutmegs, bruise them, and put 


them into a quart of brandy, and let 
them steep in it for a fortnight, occa- 
sionally giving it a shake up; then pour 
the liquor clean off, 

Nutmea Water.—Bruise half a pound 
of nutmegs; then take an ounce of 


orange-peel, three gallons of rectified 
| spirits of wine, and a sufficient quantity 


of water; distil them, and sweeten them 
with two pounds of loaf sugar. 


O. 
OAT Cakes—are made in the same 


allons of 


2H3 


OLI 


pletely; lay in small pieces of butter, 
until you have as much as you may 
want; close them again, set them before 
the fire, and cut each in halves or quar- 
ters. 

OaTMEAL Pudding.— Pour a quart of 
boiling milk over a pint of the very best 
fine oatmea!; let itsoak all night ; the next 
day beat two eggs, and mix a little salt: 
put it in abasin just large enough to hold 
it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, 
and boil itan hour anda half. Eatit with 
cold butter and salt. When‘cold, slice and 
toast it, and eat it as oat cake buttered. 

OatmEeAL Pudding, New England 
Fashion.—Steep a pint of whole oatmeal 
in a quart of boiling milk the over night; 
in the morning shred half a pound of beef 
suet very fine, and mix with the oatmeal 
and milk, some grated nutmeg, and a 
little salt, with the yolks and whites of 
three eggs, a quarter ofa pound of cur- 
rants, a quarter of a pound Of raisins, and 
a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten 
it ; stir the whole well together, tie it 
pretty close, and boil it for two hours. 
Serve with melted butter for sauce. 

OIL of Jupiter.*—Take three quarts 
of spirits of wine, flavoured with essen- 
tial oil of lemon, the same quantity 
flavoured with spirit of cedrat; make a 
syrup with seven pounds of sugar, a gal- 
lon of water, and two bottles of Scubac; 
mix the whole together, and by stirring, 
it will become thick ; to clarify it, take the 
whites oftwo eggs in abouta pint of the 
liqueur, and afterwards put it to the 
whole; stir it; then put it intoa still in 
the bax marie moderately heated ; let 
it remain for twelve hours; filter the 
produce of your distillation, and bottle 
1s 
Orn of Venus.* —Reduce the following 
articles to an impalpable powder :—an 
ounce of skirret seeds, an ounce of carra- 
way seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a 
drachm anda half of mace, and the rind 
of an orange; infuse these for five days 
ina gallon of brandy, then distil from it 
in a barn marie, two quarts of Mqueur ; 
dissolve over the fire four pounds of su- 
gar in two quarts of pure water; when 
cold, mix it with the distilled “gaueur, 
and colour it of a clear yellow, with a 
little tincture of saffron ; filter and bottle 
it; seal the corks. 

O1t Toast. — Toast some slices of 
bread, and whilst hot, baste them with 
oil and lemon-juice; pepper and salt 

them, and serve very hot. 
‘ OLIO, a French one.— Take five 
pounds of steaks, cut very thick, from the 
leg of mutton piece of beef; put them 
into a deep stewpan, add five pounds of 
any part of veal, and a leg of mutton of 


( 364 ) 


OLt 


about six or seven pounds, which must 
be skinned and have the fat taken off; 
cover it very closely, and set it over the 
stove with a very moderate fire; let it 
stand till the gravy begins to run ; stir 
up the fire, and let it stand till the meat 
begins to stick to the pan, but not longer, 
as it should not be too brown; pour a 
little beef gravy into it, and stir it about 5 
when thoroughly mixed, put it into a pot, 
set it upon the fire very closely covered, 
with a sufficient quantity of gravy to fill 
the pot; then take twelve carrots, nine 
parsnips, eight onions, and six turnips; 
put these into the pot, with a, buneh of 
leeks, a bundle of celery, and a handful of 
mignonette ; let these boil well together, 
anc tken putin a fowl, a turkey, and a 
couple of pigeons; add a couple of 


| pounds of ham, cut in thick slices ; keep 


it boiling, and as the scum rises; skim it, 
off very clean; while these are doing, 
take four French rolls rasped, pare off 
the crusts, and or them into a stewpan 
with a little of the olio liquor; when 
they are soft, put them into a tureen or 
into a very deep soup dish; pour in the 
liquor; let there be some celery; and 
some of the other roots put in, acy some 
of the best pieces of the meat, and the 
pigeons putin whole. This is the way 


to muke the plain French olio; but they- 


often put in partridges to stew in the 
gravy, sometimes half roasting them be- 
fore they put them in. 

Ouro, Maigre.—Scald all sorts of roots, 
such as onions, carrots, parsnips, par= 
sley-roots, turnips, celery, and leeks; 
then boil them in some pease broth, 
with a mgnonette, and some carp trim- 
mings; when the above vegetables are 
sufficiently done, put in a little root 
gravy, strain, and set it by for any pur- 
pose which you may require. 

O10, Spanish.*—Take ten pounds of 
rump of beef, a brisket of veal, a breast 
of mutton,a knuckle of ham, a chicken, 
two pigeons, two quails, two old part- 
ridges, larded and trussed like chickens, 
a duck, a pound of streaked bacon, a raw 
German. sausage, eight small sausages, 
seasoned high, tie all these up that they 
may not fall to pieces, put them 
into a braising-pan, with some dry 
peas (put in warm water the night, be- 
fore). Moisten the whole with good 
stock, season it with six pimento, four 
cloves, a little mace, and some nutmeg, 
all tied in a piece of muslin; let this boil 
for some hours. Take four cabbages, 


‘ten lettuces, thirty carrots, as many 


turnips, blanch and put them into a 
stewpan covered with slices of bacon, 
moisten them with the skimmings of the 
braise; then take a dozen artichoke- 


nt 


ae ee ee 


4 
i 


EGR 5 ely 








OLI 


bottoms (trimmed properly and cooked 
in a blanc), twenty-four glazed onions, a 
few small carrots and turnips cut into 
olives, blanched and dressed in a little 
consommé and sugar, some French beans 
‘cut jn lozenges, young beans, peas, and 
cucumbers, all blanched separately. 
Drain the meat and vegetables, strain 
the liquor, skim and clarify and keep it 
boiling. Press the cabbages and lettuces, 
and dish them as follows:—A piece of 
cabbage, a carrot, a lettuce, a turnip, 
and cabbage again, and so on, till you 
have made a complete circle round your 
dish, in the centre put the peas and 
meat, arrange the artichoke-bottoms on 
the vegetables at equal distances, a 
glazed onion between each, and having 
tossed up the small vegetables in a littie 
butter and glaze; place a few in every 
one of the artichoke-bottoms. Glaze the 
whole and serve it. 

Ox10, Spanish.—Take some gristies 
from a breast of veal, also from a brisket 
of beef, and from a breast of mutton, 
some sheep’s rumps cut in pieces ; they 
must all be about the size of a finger; 
take also five pounds of beef-steaks, and 
put them into a stewing-pan, with a 
quantity of beefstock, abunch of leeks, 
a large bunch of celery picked very clean; 
they must be stewed till the rumps and 
gristles are tender ; then put in a couple 
of pigeons, a brace of partridges, two 
‘pair of hog’s feet and ears, the knuckle 
end of aham, half of a fine white cab- 
bage, some pepper, salt, a bunch of 
sweet basil, two onions, and some cloves; 
cover these over with some thick beef 
steaks, and over them some veal-steaks, 

ura little fresh stock upon them, and 
leave them to stew over a gentle fire; 
let the whole stew till the liquor is eva- 
porated and the ingredients begin to stick 
at the bottom; then put in more stock 5 
while these are stewing, set on some 
large peas that have been previously 
soaked in water for four and twenty 
hours ; set these on to boil in some gravy. 
The Spaniards make use of a kind of 
peas, called Garavances; they are large, 
and not unlike our grey peas; but if 
these are not to be had, any large peas 
will do; these must be boiled very tender, 
and be ready at the seme time as the olio. 
As the stock boils away, put in more, 
which must boil a quarter of an hour ; 
season the olio according to taste, with 
pepper and salt; have ready a large 
soup-dish, take out the ingredients, one 
by one, lay them in the dish; the gristles 
and the roots must be dispersed about 
among the other things; then pour over 
them the peas and their gravy, and 
then put ina proper quantity of gravy. 


( 355 ) 





OME 


Tt must not be eaten as a soup but as an 
olio, the ingredients in preference to the 
liquor. Those who prefer the soup may 
have it in a basin with toasted bread. 

OLIVES.—There are three sorts, the 
Italian, Spanish, and French ; they may 
be had of various sizes and flavours, 
some prefer one sort, and some another. 

The fine salad oil” is made from 
this fruit, for which purpose they are 
gathered ripe; for picklmg they are 
gathered when only half ripe, at the 
latter end of June; they are put into 
fresh water to soak for a couple of days; 
after this they are thrown into lime 
water, in which some pearl-ashes have 
been dissolved; in this liquor they lie 
for six and thirty hours ; they are then 
put into water which has had bay-salt 
dissolved init; this is the last prepara- 
tion, and they are sent over to us in this 
liquor; they are naturally, as they grow 
on the tree, extremely bitter, and there- 
fore all these preparations are necessary 
to bring them to their fine flavour. To 
some olives they add a small quantity of 
essence of spices, which is an oi] drawn 
from cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, corian- 
der, and sweet fennel-seed distilled toge- 
ther for that purpose ; twelve drops are 
sufficient for a bushel of olives; some 
prefer them flavoured with this essence. 

Ouives, Ragodt of.*—Take some very 
green olives, cut out the stones, so that 
the fruit may close to its original form; 
put them, one by one, into water, blanch, 
and then put them into a good cullis, 
well seasoned. 

Outves, Ragodt of.*—Take a small 
quantity of parsley and scallions, shred 
and give them a few turns in butter, 
with a little flour ; add to this two spoons- 
ful of gravy, a glass of Champagne, 
capers, cut small, an anchovy, some 
olives, without their stones, a drop 
of olive oil, and some good cullis ; season 
it well, clear away the fat, and serve it 
with roast meat of various kinds. 

OMELET.*—Take as many eggs as you 
think proper (according to the size of your 
omelet) break them into a basin with some 
salt and chopped parsley ; then beat them 
well, and season them according to taste, 
then have ready some onion chopped 
small ; put some butter into a frying- 
pan, and when it is hot (but not to burn) 
put in your chopped onion, giving them 
two or three turns; then add your eggs 
to it, and fry the whole of a nice brown, 
you must only fry oneside. When done, 
turn it into a dish, the fried side upper- 
most, and serve. 

-OmEtET a la Celestine.*—Make four 
omelets, of three eggs each, and as thin 
as possible ; slide them carefully on the 


OME 


table, lay frangipane on, and roll them 
up into the form of a muff, trim the ends 
and place them on a dish, sprinkle them 
with powder-sugar, glaze, and serve 
them. : . 

Ometer, & la Créme.—Boil a pint of 
cream, and put into it the crumb of a 
French roll, parsley, shalots (both shred 
small), a little pepper and salt; stir it 
over the fire till quite thick; then add 
half a dozen eggs; fry your omelet, ob- 
serve that. it will require rather more 
time than usual. : 

Ometets a la Dauphine. — Having 
made one or two thin omelets (without 
any seasoning) lay them en a_ dish, 
and spread over them some pistachio 
cream, cherry. and apricot marmalade; 
roll them up, cut them into small pieces, 
each of which enclose in almond paste; 
strew powder-sugar over, and glaze them 
with a salamander. 

Ome ets of Eggs for garnishing or 
eutting in Slips.—Break your eggs, and 
put the yolks and whites into separate 
pans; beat them up with a little salt, 
and then put them again into separate 
earthen vessels rubbed with sweet oil. 
Have ready a pot of boiling water over a 
fire; put them in closely covered, and 
Fit the omelets steam till thoroughly 

one. 

OmeELET @ la Fermiére.—Break the 
number of eggs you think necessary for 
the size of the omelet, beat them up 
with chopped parsley, shalots, sorrel, 
pepper, and salt; fry itas usual; when 
done, puta piece of fried bread on it; 
roll the omelet round, and serve it. 

Qe et Fritiers. —Make two or three 
thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil 
to the usual ingredients; cut them inte 
small pieces and roll them into the form 
of olives; when cold, dip them into bat- 
ter, or enclose them in puff-paste ; fry, 
and serve them with fried parsley. 

QmeEtet dla Gend’arme.—Make a ra- 
gotit with sorrel, Parmesan cheese grated, 
and bread-crumbs ; fry two omelets in 
the usual manner, between which put 
the above ragolit; place them on a dish; 
cut some pieces of bread, fry them, dip 
the edge of each in some white of egg to 
make them stick, set them round the 


omelet, over which pour a little melted | 


butter, strew bread-crumbs and Parme- 
san cheese on it, and colour it in the 
oven or with a salamander. 

Qmetet Glacée.* — Whip up some 
fresh eggs with a small quantity of salt, 
a little candied lemon-peel, and pounded 
macaroons; beat them together well, 
and then fry them as usual, sprinkle 
the omelet with sugar, and serve. 

Ome ets en Hatereaua.—Make your 


( 356 ) 


/and add t 


yolks; 





OME 


omelets thin, with sweet herbs, oil in+ 
stead of butter, pepper, and salt, cut them 
into pieces; between two of which lace 
fried bread and anehovies cut in fillets 
or slips 3 serve them hot. 

OmeEteT a UItatéienne.*—Break your 
eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred 
parsley, cream, and olive-oil; beat these 
ingredients well, and make three or four 
omelets of them, thin, but not too dry; 
cut some anchovies into thin slips, which 
lay on each of the omelets, placing the 
latter one on the other; cement them 
together, and when cold, having beaten 
up two eggs, dip in the omelets, bread 
and fry them to a nice colour. 

OmeteT @ la Jardiniére.*—Make a 
rich ragotit of all sorts of vegetabl 
which may be in season, half of which 
put to a dozen eggs, beat them together, 
and fry your omelet as usual; when done, 
pour the remainder of the ragofit over, 
and serve. 

Ometer az Natwrel.*—Break eight 
or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, 
and a spoonful of cold water, beat them 
up with a whisk; m the mean time put 


| some fresh butter into a frying-pan, when 
it is quite melted 
) put in the eggs, &e. with a skimmer 3. 


and nearly boiling, 


as it is frying, take up the edges, that they 
may ibe properly done; when cooked, 
double it ; serve very hot. 

OmeEteT au Sang.—This is made pre- 
cisely the sameas the common omelet; 
the only difference consists in the addi- 
tion of poultry or lamb’s blood te the 
usual ingredients. 

OmeEieT Soufiée.*—Break six eggs, 
separate the whites from the yolks, to 
the latter, put four dessert spoonsful of 
powder-sugar, and the rind of a lemon 
chopped exceedingly small; mix them 
well, ren the whites as if for biscuits, — 

em to the rest: put a quarter 
of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, 


| over a brisk fire; as soon as it is com- 
pletely melted, pour in the above, stir it 
/up, that the butter may be thoroughly 
incorporated with the omelet, and when 
that is the ease, strain it into a buttered 
dish, which place on hot ashes, strew 
| powder-sugar over, and colour thé top 


carefully with a salamandér. . 

¢ arse Soufflée, in a orien ji 
six fine eggs, separate the whites an 
ut to the latter three nic 
of powder-sugar, four crushed maca- 
roons, a spoonful of potatoe-flour, a little 
crisped orange-flower in powder}; stir 


them together’ well, whip the whites to 


a froth, mix them with the yolks, and 
pour the whole into a buttered mould, 
but do not fill it; set it in a moderate 
oven, the same as for biscuits; when 








ONI 


done, turn it out on a dish, and serve it. 
This omelet should be of a clear colour, 


‘and shake like a jelly. 


Ometer Stuffed.*—Make your omelet 
as au Naturel, but before you turn the 
ends over, lay on it a farce of sorrel ; 
double the omelet before you take it 
from the pan, so that none of the farce 
may be perceived, and cement the edges 
with white of eggs; serve it very hot. 


‘Any other sort of farce may be applied 


in the same way. 

OMELET with Sweetmeats.*—Make an 
omelet with nine eggs; when quite done, 
spread over with any kind of sweetmeat 
you may think proper; roll it up to the 
form of a muff, strew powder-sugar over } 


‘make a skewer quite hot, run them 


through, and fry them. 

ONIONS with Carp Roes.—Make a 
roux with butter and flour, to which add 
a little onion gravy, some large onions 
(previously scalded), a few mushrooms, 
a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, ba- 
sil, bay-leaf, and a few cloves; when 


. nearly done, put in some carp roes, and 


leave them a little longer; then take 
out the parsley, reduce the sauce 
ready for table, put in a few capers 
chopped, and ene or two anchovies ; gar- 
nish your dish with fried bread. 

Onion Cullis, Maigre of.— Put some 
sliced onions into a pan witha little but- 
ter, set it on a brisk fire ; when brown, 
add two spoonsful of flour, keep it stir- 
ring, put to it some broth, a glass of 


white wine, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, 


and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim, 
and rub it through a sieve, with seasoning 
according to your taste. 

Onions, Garbure of.— Take about 
forty onions, cut them into quarters, 
which divide into two or three slices, 
(having taken off the skins, heads, and 
stalks); put about half a pound of butter 
into a pan, and when it is melted, fry the 
onions in it, of a nice clear colour. 
Then have some bread cut in thin slices; 


lace a layer of this on a dish, thena 


ayer of onions, and so on alternately, 
until the dish is quite full, strewing pep- 
per and salt between each. Pour some 
stock over the whole, and set it on the 
fire to simmer, till the gratin is formed, 
taking great care not to let it burn, as 
that will make it bitter, but ail the mois- 
ture must be completely dried up. Have 
some broth inaseparate dish, andserveit. 
Onions Glazed.*—Choose your onions 
as near of asize as you can, peel them 
with care; butter the bottom of your 
stewpan, lay the onions on it head down- 
wards, a piece of sugar the size of a wal- 
nut, and a sufficient quantity of stock or 
water, to reach the tails of the onions; 


( 357 ) 


ONI 


set them on a brisk fire ; when the liquor 
is reduced to about three-fourths, lessen 
your fire, and let it stand till it becomes 
quiteajelly. 

Large or small onions may be glazed 
thus, being careful, however (as above 
mentioned), to select them as nearly of a 
size as possible. 

Onrons (Matelote of).— Take seven or 
eight pieces of ox tails, and having scald- 
ed, braise them in some stock, with pars- 
ley, two cloves, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper 
and sa!t; when about half done, putin 
eight large onions (previously scalded) 3 
as. soon as they are quite done, take them 
out, strain the sauce, to which adda glass 
of port wine and some cullis. Serve your 
matelote as usual. (See Matelote.) _. 

Onton Omelet.*—Cut some very white 
onions into slices, give them a few turns 
over the fire ; when nearly done, moisten 
them with cream, and season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg; mix this with half 
a dozen eggs; beat the whole up well, 
and fry the omelet either in oil or butter. 

Onron Omelet.— Take two or three 
good sized onions, cut them into slices, 
and fry them in butter; when they are 
done, add the yolks of two eggs, anda 
little chopped parsley; fry two small 
omelets, on which lay the onions, with 
two or three anchovies, cut in slips; roll 
them up lengthwise ; fry some pieces of 
crumb, cut the omelets to the shape and 
size of these, and place them thereon 3 
pour melted butter, and strew bread 
crumbs and grated Parmesan over them, 
and colour it in the oven. 

Onions with Parmesan Cheese.—Pare 
six large mild onions, and cut them into 
round slices, halfan inch in thickness. 
Then make a batter with flour, half a 
gill of cream, a little pepper, salt, and 
three eggs, beat up for ten minutes; 
after which add a quarter of a pound of 
Parmesan cheese grated fine, and mixed 
well together, to which add the onions. 
Have ready some boiling lard; then take 
the slices of onions out of the batter with 
a fork, singly, and fry them gently till 
done of a nice brown. Drain them dry, 
and serve them up placed round each 
other. For sauce, melted butter witha 
little mustard in it. 

Ontons (to Pickle).*—Peel the onions 
till they look white; boil some strong 
salt and water, and pour it over them; 
let them stand in this twenty-four hours, 
keep the vessel closely covered to retain 
the steam: after that time-wipe the 
onions quite dry, and when they are 
cold, pour boiling vinegar, with ginger 
and white pepper over them. Take care 
the vinegar always covers the onions, 

Onions (to Pickle) .*—Shift the onions 


ONT 


fresh water, for nine days, then peel 
them; make a brine sufficiently strong 
to bear an egg, boil it, and pour it on the 
onions, letthem stand for four-and-twenty 
hours; then boil vinegai’, with pepper, 
horse-radish, ginger, and mustard-seed, 
and put it boiling hot to the onions, and 
let them stand fer three days, then boil 
it again, and let them stand for another 


three days; after this, boil them all up | 
together, and stop them closé down; 
they will be fit for use as soon as they | 


are cold. 


Ontons, Potage of.*—Set some good 
milk on the fire, season it with salt and | 
nated whilst it is boiling, mélt some - 


utter in a stewpanh, add to this some 
sliced onions, stir them up, aid when 
they are lightly browned, put them to 
the boiling milk, and simmer altogether 
for halfan hour. Put the bread into a 
basin, pour a sufficient qtiantity of the 
soup over to soak it, and when it has im- 


bibed as much as you wish, put it into 


a soup tureen, fill it with your soup, lay 
the onions on the bread, and serve. 
Ontons, Purée of (Brown).*—Take 
from thirty to forty onions, according to 
their size; peel and cut them down ih 
half, taking off the tops and stalks, and 
then slice them ; put six ounces of butter 
into a saucepan, with the onions, which 
fry lightly till of a nice colour; then add 
two ladlesful of éspagnole, one af stock, 
and reduce your purée; when suffici- 
ently thick, rub it through a coarse siéve. 


Great care should be taken not to let the | 


purée boil. 

Onrons, Purée of (White).*—Preépare 
the onions in the same manner as for the 
brown purée, except that they must not 
be allowed to take colour; when done, 
add to them some velouté, or cream, re- 
duce this over a large fire, stirring con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon; when the 
purée issufficiently thick, rub it through 
a sieve, 

Ownrons, Ragodt of.*—Blanch and stew 
your oniens in equal quantities of coz- 
sommé, and champaign ; add a spoonful 
of olive oi}, salt, pepper, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs: let these all simmer toge- 
ther till the onions are sufficiently done. 

~Ontons, Ragoidt of.—Peel a pint of 
small onions, and take four large ones 
and cut them. very small; then melt a 
quarter of a pound of butter in a stew- 
pan; when it has done hissing, putt in 
the onioris, and fry them a light brown ; 
then shake in a little flour, and shake 
them round till they are thick; add a 
little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quar- 
ter of a pint of good gravy, anda tea- 
spoonful of mustard, stir all well toge- 


( 358 ) 
with their peels on every morfiing, in’ 





(ONI 


ther ; when well flavoured, and of 4 good 
thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish 
with fried bread crumbs. 

Onton Salad, with Beet Root.— Boil 
some large onions till well done; then 
put them on a dish to cool; have some 
beet root well baked, cut it into thin 
slices, and cut the onions into slicés also 3 
then lay a slice of onion between two of 
béet, arranging them in whatever form 
you think proper on the dish ; serve 
over them an Jtalienne satice, the same 
as for Jtalienne salad. - 

Onion Sauce.—Peel some onions, boil 
them in milk and water, pee a turnip 
with them into the pot (it draws out the 
strength) ; change the water twice}; pulp 
them through a cullender, or chop them ; 
then put them into a saucepan with some 
cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, 
some pepper and salt; they must be 
served very smooth. ; ata 

Onion Sauce.—The onions must be 
peeled, and then boiled till they are tén- 
der; then squeeze the water from them 3 
chop them, and add to them butter Hy 
has been melted rich and smooth, with a 
little good milk instead of water; give it 
one boil, and serve it for boiled rabbits, 
partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or 
roast mutton, A turnip boiled with the 
Onions draws out their strength. * 

Onton Sauce (Brown).—Peel and slice 
the onions (some put in an équal quan- 
tity of cucumber or celery) into a quart 
stewpan, with an ounce of butter; Seti 
over a slow fire, and turn the onion about 
till it is very lightly browned ; then gra- 
dually stir in half an ounce of flour ; add 
a little broth, and a little pepper pare 
salt, boil up for a few minutes; add a 
table-spoonful of claret, or port wine, 
and some mushroom ketchup (you may 


juice or vinegar), and rub it through 
a tammy, or fire sieve. , 

Onion Soup.—Fut into the water in 
which a leg or neck of mutton has been 
boiled, some carrots, turnips, and a 
shank bone, and let it simmer for a 
couple of hours. Strain it on half a dozen 
onions, first sliced and fried of a light 
brown ; simmer the whole for three hours. 
skim it carefully, and serve. Putina little 
rol], or fried bread. 


onions, fry them gently of a nice brown, 
taking care not to blacken them}; ee 
put them into a small stewpan, witha 
little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; 
cover them, and let them gently stew for 
two hours. Lightly flour them at first. | 
Onions Stuffed.*—Peel fourand twent 
large onions, very carefully, blanch, cool, 
and then having drained them, scoop out 


add, if you think proper, a little lemon- - 


Onions Stewed. -—Peel half a dozen. 


} 
H 

4 
| 
< 
| 
| 
nl 


ee 





ORA 


the inner part of the onions, and fill 
them with a guenelle farce, put them 
into a stewpan, let them all lay flat 
cover them with slices of bacon, add 
some water, a little salt, and a small 
quantity of sugar, set them on a large 
fire at first, but lessen the fire after- 
wards; let them stand till done, then 
reduce the liquor, and make use of the 
onions as garnish for Jarge dishes, 
ORANGE Biscuits.*—Take the grated 
rind of an orange, six, fresh eggs, a quar- 
ter of a pound of flour, and three quarters 


_of a pound of powder sugar; put these 


into a mortar, beat them to a paste, 
which put into cases, and bake like other 
biscuits. 

OrAnGE Biscuits, or Little Cakes.— 
Boil some Seville oranges whole in seve- 
ral waters, till all the bitterness is taken 
from them ; cut them, and take out the 
pulp and juice; then put the outsides 
into a mortar, and beat them very fine, 
add to it an equal weight of double re- 
fined sugar, beaten and sifted. When 
thoroughly well mixed to a paste, spread 
it thin on china dishes, and set them in 
the sun, or before the fire ; when they 
are about half dry, cut them into what- 
ever form you please, turn the other side 
up, and dry that. Keep them in a box 
with layers of paper. 

Orances *n Brandy,.* — Choose the 
oranges véry round and smooth, pare, 
prick them in the middle, and put them 
into cold water; then blanch them in 
boiling water; when they are tender, 
throw them again into cold water; ina 
short time give them seven or eight buils 
in sugar, @ la.petite wappe, skim, and let 
them stand till next day, when the same 
process must be gone through; skim 
them again, then put them into bottles, 
pour over them equal quantities of syrup 
and water; take care to cork them well. 

Orances in Brandy. — Chocse your 
oranges as near of a size as you can, and 
boil them till a pin will penetrate the 
skins with ease; do not take out the 


pulp, but make a small hole through the 


stalk end; give them a boil in some cla- 
rified sugar, and set them aside; the 
next day, drain off the syrup, boil and 
pour it on the fruit whilst hot; on the 
third day repeat this operation, put the 
oranges into it, and boil them together ; 
take out the fruit, add as much brandy 
as syrup, make it hot, but it must not 
boil; when cold, pour it over the oranges, 
which ought to float in the liquid. 
Onance Butter. — Take half a dozen 
egys, and boil them hard, beat them in 
a mortar, with two ounces of fine sugar, 
three ounces of butter, and two ounces 
of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine 


( 359 ) 


gether, set them ta cool. 


ORA: 


paste. Moisten with orange-flower waters 
and when all is mixed, rub it through a 
culJender, on a dish, and serve with sweet 
biscuits between, 9 

Ornances Buttered Hot. — Take four 
Seville oranges, grate off a little of the: 
outside rind, and cut a round hole at the 
blunt end ef the orange, opposite the. 
stalk, sufficiently large to take out the 
pulp, seeds, and juice; then pick the. 
seeds and skin from the pulp; rub the: 
oranges over with a little salt, and lay 
them in water for a short time. Be care- 
ful to save the bits you cut out of the 
oranges. Boil the oranges in fresh water. 
until they are tender, changing the water 
to take out the bitterness. In the mean- 
time, make a thin syrup with fine sugar, 
and put the oranges into it, and boil: 
them up ; turning them round, that each 
part may partake of the syrup, as there 
need not be enough to cover them, and 
Jet them remain in hot till they are to be 
served. About half an hour before you 
want them put some sugar to the pulp, 
and set it over the fire ; mix it well, and 
let it boil; then add a spoonful of white 
wine for every orange, give ita boil, and 
then putin a bit of butter, and stir over 
the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with 
it, and serve them with some of the syrup 
inthe dish. Put the pieces which were. 
cut out of the oranges at the top. 

Orance Cheesecakes.—Blanch. eight: 
ounces of almonds, beat them very fine 
with orange-flower water, and beat an 
sift half a pound of sugar, and melt a 
pound of butter very carefully without 
oiling (the butter must be nearly cold 
before you use it for your cheesecakes), 
then beat the yolks of ten and the whites 
of four eggs 3 pound two candied oranges, 
and a fresh one (having previously boiled 
out the bitterness) in a mortar, till as ten- 
der as marmalade, without any lumps; 
then mix the whole together, and put 
into patty-pans. 

Onances, Compéte of.*—Cut them in 
stnall piewen and boil them in water 
until they are tender, then change them 
into cold water; next make a syrup with 
one glass of water and four ounces of 
sugar, and put in the fruit; let it sim- 
mer gently over a slow fire for half an 
hour ; serve cold. 

OnancGEs, Compdte of.t—Takeas many 
oranges as you may require, pare them 
neatly, cut them into quarters, which, | 
(as_you take out the pips) throw into 
cold water; then scald them, and when 
they appear soft, throw them again into 
cold water; in the mean time boil some. 
sugar to petit lissé, put the oranges in,» 
and having given them several boils to-" 
When quite: 


ORA 


cold, take the fruit out of the syrup, and 
put them into compotiers; boil the 
syrup a few times, and as soon as it 
cools, pour it over the fruit. 

“Ornances (Raw) Compéte of.*—Cut 
the upper part of six good oranges, so 
that you can put them together again so 
as to appear whole; pierce the pulp in 
several places with a small knife, and 
fill the incisions with fine powder-sugar 
and a little brandy; then replace the 
pieces you have cut off, and serve the 
oranges in a dessert dish. 

“OrANGE Cream.*—Pare the rind of a 
Seville orange very thin, squeeze the juice 
of four oranges, put it with the peel intoa 
tossing-pan with a pint of water and eight 
ounces of sugar, beat the whites of five 
eggs, mix all together, set it over a slow 
fire, stir it one way till it looks thick and 
white, then strain it through a gauze 
sieve, stirring it till cold, then beat the 
yolks of the five egys very fine, and put 
it into the pan with some cream ; stir it 
' over the fire till ready to boil, then pour 
it intoa basin, stir it till quite cold before 
you put it into glagses. 

“Orange Cream, Frothed.—Make a 
pint of cream very sweet, put it over the 
fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a 
large orange into a small deep glass, 
having previously steeped a bit of oranze- 
peel for a short time in the juice; when 
the cream is almost cold, pour it out of a 
tea-pot upon the juice, holding it as high 
as possible. 

Onance, Crogue en Bouches of.* — 
Pare a dozen fine oranges, and divide 
each into twelve pieces, all of the same 
size; scrape off every particle of the 
white, without breaking the thin skin 
which contains the juice; when all are 
done, dip each piece into some sugar 
boiled to cassé (and lightly coloured), and 
place them in a plain mould of six inches 
diameter, and five in height; the first 
row inclined one way, the second the re- 
verse way, and so on; lay them at the 
bottom inastar. Assoon as the mould 
is full, turn it out, and serve it with all 
possible expedition, as the moisture of 
the fruit dissolves the sugar Fo rapidly, 
that the crogue en bouche is liable to fall 
to pieces. 

ANGE Custard.*—Having boiled the 
‘rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat 
it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it 
the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful 
of the best brandy, four ounces of loaf- 
sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; heat 
them all well together ten minutes, then 
pour in by degrees a pint of boiling 
cream; keep beating it till cold; put it 
into custard glasses. Set them in an 
earthen dish of hot water; let them 


( 360 ) 


ORA 


stand till they are set, then stick pre-. 


served orange, or orange chips, on the 
top. It may beserved hot orcold. — 


OrancE (Fine).*—Infuse the peels of ' 


a dozen large oranges for some days, in 


six quarts of the best brandy ; after which © 


add a quart of water, and distil the whole; 
this will yield about a gallon of Ugueur. 
Dissolve three pounds and a half of su- 


gar in seven pints of water; add this’ 
syrup to the dégueur, and then strain and 


bottle it. op 

Oranaes (Florentine of) with Apples. 
—Take half a dozen oranges, saye the 
juice, and take out the pulp; lay the 
rinds in water twenty-four hours, chang- 
ing the water three or four times; then 
boil them in three or four different 
waters, then strain the water off, put 
them and their juice, with a pound of 
sugar, and put them by for use; when 
they are used, boil ten pippins in a little 
sugar and water, pare, quarter, and core 
them, and mix them with some of the 
oranges; lay a puff- paste in the dish, and 
then put in the fruit; cover it with a 
thin crust, rolled and laid across; it 
may be cut into whatever shape you 
please. 

OranGeE Fool.*—Take the juice of six 
oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of 
cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a 
little cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all 


well together; stir it over a slow fire till’ 


thick, then put in a smal] poe of butter, 
and keep stirring it till cold. 


OranceE Fritters. — Take one or two . 


preserved oranges, cut them into as many 
pieces a8 you think proper; make a good 
thick batter with sweet wine, and finish 
the same as all others. 

Orance Fritters.—Pare off the rind 
of some oranges, very thin, cut them into 
quarters, and blanch them for a quarter 
ofan hour; then drain them, take out 
the pips, and put the oranges into a light 
syrup 3 simmer, and reduce them to cara- 
mel, take them from the fire, and when 
cold, cover them with syrup, dip each 
quarter into batter, and fry them of a 
nice colour ; sprinkle them with powder 
sugar, glaze, and serve them, : 

OnancGe Gimblettes.*—Grate the rinds 
of two very sound oranges on a piece of 
sugar, which scrape off, and mix with 
some more, so as to make six ounces ; 
pound four ounces of blanched almonds, 
Put half a pound of sifted flour on a slab, 
make a hole in the middle, into which 
put four drachms of yeast (diluted with a 
small quantity of milk), two ounces of 
butter, the yolks of two eggs, a grain of 
salt, the almonds and the sugar; mix 
these altogether, and leave the paste in a 
warm place for five or six hours, that it 


4 aie 
+ a et 


Pen Fe 





ORA 


may rise; after that time break up the 
paste, and roll it into little bands the 
size of your little finger, which cut bias 
into pieces five inches in length, and 
form them into little rings, joining the 
bias ends very neatly; put them intoa 
saucepan of boiling water, stir the sur- 
face lightly in order to make the gém- 
élettes rise, and prevent them trom 


sticking to eachother; in afew minutes’ 


drain, and put them into cold. water ; 
when quite cold, drain them again, dorez, 
and place them on lightly waxed copper- 
plates ; put them in a slow oven, and 
bake them to a nice colour. 

Orance Jce.* — Take ten fine blood 
oranges, peel, and divide them into quar- 
ters; take out the pips and heart, and 
then pound them with the grated rinds 
of two of the oranges: put them into a 
strong cloth, and press out all the juice, 
which mix with half a pound of sugar, 
previously dissolved in a pint of water ; 
put this mixture into a sordetiére or ice- 
ox, and ice itas directed. (See lee.) 

Orance Jelly. — Put two quaris of 
spring-water into a saucepan, with half 
a pound ef hartshorn shavings, or four 
ounces of isinglass, and boil it gently till 
it becomes a strong jelly. Take the 
juice of three Seville oranges, three le- 
mons, and six China oranges, the rind of 
one Seville orange and one lemon, pared 
very thin; put them to your jelly, 
sweeten with loaf-sugar to your taste, 
beat up the whites ofeight eggs to afroth, 
mix them well in, and boil it for ten 
minutes; then run it through a jelly- 
bag till it is very clear, put it into your 
moulds, and let it siand till it is tho- 
roughly cold; then dip your moulds in 
warm water, and turn them into a China 
dish or flat glass 

Orance Jelly en Rubans.* — Prepare 
the rinds of seven oranges as directed 
(see oranges en surprise), and make half 
the quantity efjelly ; take an equal quan- 
tity of 6lanc-mange, and whilst the peels 
are in ice, put into each a dessert spoon- 
ful of the latter; as soon as this is con- 
gealed, pour on it aspoonful anda half 
of orange-jelly; let that set, and add 
two spoonsful of 4/anc-mange, then. two 
of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled; 
when quite ready for table, cut them 
carefullyinto quarters, and arrange them 
with taste, on a dish, or in a confectionary 
basket. 

Orance ( Transparent) Jelly.* — Take 
the juice of tweive oranges and tivo le- 
mons, having taken care that none of the 
pips are in, pare two of the sweetest 
oranges as thin as possible, put the juice 
and rind into a bag, and when it has 


filtered through, mix it with the syrup 


(361 ) 


ORA 


tinged with cochineal, add the isinglass, 
and finish it in the usual manner. (See 
Fruit Jelly.) 6 

OraAnceE Juice Buttered.—Take seve 
Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from 
them, and mix it with four spoonsful of 
rose-water, and add the whole to the 
yolks of eight and the whites of four 
eggs, well beaten ; strain the liquor to 
halfa pound of pounded sugar, and stir 
it over a moderate fire, and a3 soon as it 
begins to thicken, add to it a bit of but- 
ter about the size of a walnut; keep ita 
few minutes longer ever the fire; then 
pour it intoa dish, and serve cold. - 

Orance Juice to Keep.* — To every 
pint ofjuice put three quarters of a pound 
of double refined sugar; let it boil a 
little, and then put it into bottles. 

Orange Loaves.—Cut the fruit into 
halves, squeeze them and preserve the 
liquor; boil the peelsin several waters, 
to take out the bitterness; then let 
them lay for two days in syrup; boil the 
syrup again after that period to a good 
consistency, add the peels, afterwards put 
them into glasses for use; when they are 
wanted, take what quantity is sufficient 
fora dish, and fill them with some pudding 
mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, 
&c. or with a custard, and bake them 
carefully. 

Orance Marmalade.*— Take eight 
Seville oranges, three lemons, pare them 
very thin, take out all the juice and 
pulp, lay the peels in water twenty-four 

ours, changing them once or twice, lay 
them on a coarse cloth to drain ; then 
take the weight ofjuice, pulp, and peel, in 
lump sugar ; boil the whole a quarter ofan 
hour or twenty minutes; the peel should 
be cut in long narrow slips; be careful 
not to leave any seeds or white part of 
the rind. ; 

Orance Marmalade.*—Take the peels 
of fifteen oranges (without any of the 
white), blanch them till tender; then put 
them into cold water; in afew minutes 
take them out, drain and pound tkem to 
a paste, which rub through a sieve: 
weigh it, and for each pound allow 2 
pound and half of sugar, clarify and boil 
the latter to fort perlé; add the paste 
and boil them together, stirring con- 
stantly till the marmalade is done, which 
may be known thus: take some up be- 
tween your thumb and finger, and, if on 
opening them, the marmalade dfaws cut 
like athread, it is at the right point, and 
may be put into pots. 

OrAnGE Posset.—Squeeze the juice of 
two Seville oranges intoa china bowl or 
small deep dish that will hold about a 
quart, sweeten it like syrup, add a little 
DEANS, boil one pint of cream with a 


O:R A 


bit of orange-peel: when cold, putithe 
cream into atea-pot, pour it to the syrup, 
holding it high; and let it be made the 
day before itis wanted. 

Orances, to Preserve.*—Rasp or cut 
the oranges in scallops with a penknife, 
and throw them into wa'er, change it 
once a day for three days; then boil 
them till tender enongh to run‘a wheat 
straw through ; then put them into cold 
water till the next day; pulp, and wipe 
them very dry 5 have the syrup ready, 
boil ‘them two or three times till very 
clear. Observe to put the syrup to them 
when cold; make it the same as for eu- 
cumbers. 

Ornances Preserved Dry.*—Take some 
thick rinded oranges, and mark the 


quarters, but without actually dividing | 


them ; then pare and throw them into 
cold water; after which put them into 
boiling water; let them remain till the 
head of a pin will easily penetrate the 
skin, and then throw them again into 
cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar 
to lissé, put in the oranges, boil them 
together a little while, and then pour the 
whole into a pan: the next day drain off 
the syrup, and having boiled it up a few 
times, pour it again on the oranges 5 the 
third day drain off the syrup as before, 
and having boiled it to da nappe, add 


some more clarifiedsugarand the oranges, | 


give-the whole one boil, covered ; put it 
aside as above}; repeat this operation 
two more days ; on the last, increase the 
degree of the sugar to perlé, and having 
added the fruit, boil three or four times; 
then set them in a stove for two days; 
when the oranges may be placed in 
boxes, which must be kept in a dry 
place. 

Orances Preserved (Liguid).* —Take 
a dozen fine vranges, pare them very 
carefully, tie the rindsround the oranges 
and put them into boiling water, in 
which théy should remain (on the fire) 
for three or four hours ; whensufficiently 
done, a pin’s head will easily penetrate the 
bkins; they must then be thrown into 
cold water; ina few minutes cut each 
into five or six pieces; clarify three 
pounds of sugar, take out half of it, boil 
the remainder-to lissé; add the oranges, 
boil them together and put them aside ; 
drain off, boil and replace the syrup for 
‘twelve successive days, each day adding 
a portion of the reserved sugar: at the 
end of that time the fruit may be put 
into pots. 

OranGes to Preserve tn Jelly.—Cut a 
hole, about the size of a shilling, in the 
stalk part of the orange, and with a blunt 
smail knife, scrape ont the pulp quite 
clear without cutting therind. ‘Tie each 


( 362 ) 
| Grange S@parately in muslin, and let 


ORA 


them lay for two days in spring-water, 
changing the water twice a day; in the 
last, boil them tender on a slow fire. 
Take care that there is enough at first to 
allow for wasting, ‘as they must be co- 
vered to the last. Toeach pound of fruit 
weigh two pounds of double-refined su- 
gar, and one pint of water; boil the two 
latter together with the juice of the 
orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim it 
well, and let it stand to become cold; 
then boil the fruit in the syrup for half 
an hour}; if not clear, repeat this daily 
till they are done. : 

Another Way.—Pare and core some 
green pippins, and boil in water wll it 
tastes strong of them ; do not break them, 
only press them gently with the back of 
a spoon; strain the water through a jelly- 
bag till quite clear; then 10 every pint, 
put a pound of double-refined'sugar, the 
peel and juice of one lemon, and boil to 
a strong syrup} drain off the syrup from 
the juice, and tarn each oratge with the 
hole upwards in the jar, pour the apple- 
jelly overit. The bits which where cut 
out must go through the same process 
with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. 

Orance Pudding. —Put six ounces of 
fresh butter, and eight ounces of lump- 
sugar pounded, ina mortar; then grate 
in the rind of a Seville orange; beat the 
whole well together, and, as you do it, 
add the whole of eight eggs, well beaten 
and strained ; scrape a hard apple, and 
mix with the other ingredients; put 
paste at the bottom of the dish, put in 
the mixture, and then put over it cross- 
bars of paste. Haifan hour will be suf- 
ficient to bake it. 

Ornance Pudding, New England Fashion. 
— Squeeze the juice of three Seville 
oranges on halfa pound of loaf-sugar; take 
the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten; melt 
half a pound of butter thick : mix these 
well together, with four ounces of blanch- 
ed almonds, well pounded, with a. little 
orange: flower water, the peel of one of 
the oranges grated; put a thin crust/at 
the bottom of the dish. 

OrAnces Pulped.— Either pare your 
Orangés extremely thin, or rasp them: 
cut a hole at the stalk, pulp them very 
clean, put them intoa pot, more than 
cover them with spring-water and a little 
salt; lay a cloth upon the top three 
times doubled, then upon that a trencher 
or cover; let them Scald gently, chang- 
ing the water five or six times in the 
scalding (put salt into the first water) 5 
they must be so tender that a straw will 
pass through them; keep them in the 
last water till they can be taken out with 
the hands; put them on cloths, the 


ee ree 


TO 








ORA 


mouths downwards, changing them to 
dry places; when dry, put them into 
milk-warm syrup; let them lie half an 
hour: just scald them ; take them out, put 
them into a deep china dish, pour the 
syrup over, cover them with another dish, 
scald them once in two or three days for 
a fortnight; the last time, boil them up 
quick fill they look clear, turning them 
about as often as there is occasion; if 
any part leoks white and thick, strew 
sugar over it in the boiling; when they 
are transparent put them into pots; pour 
the syrup over scalding hot ; put brandy- 
paper, and tie ona bladder. For syrup, 
a pound of sugar to a pint of water. 

Ornances, Roguilles of.* — The peels 

taken from preserved oranges are thus 
called; they are tied up and done with 
oranges $ the third day they are drained, 
and put ina stove to dry, taking care to 
move them frequently, to prevent their 
sticking together ; when perfectly dry, 
put them intoboxes. 
- Oranes Sauece.*—Put into a stewpan 
half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, 
a slice of ham, some small pieces of 
orange-peel, about half an ounce of but- 
ter rolled in flour, salt and pepper; sim- 
mer these ever the fire till thick, and 
then add the juice ofan orange. P 

Orance Gravy Sauce.—Put halfa pint 

of veal gravy into a sauvepan, add to it 
half a dozen basil leaves, asmali onion, 
and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and 
let it boil for a few minutes, and strain it 
off. Put to the clear gravy, the juice of 
a Seville orange or lemon, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the same quantity of 
pepper, and a glass of red wine; serve it 
hot ; shalot and cayenne may be added. 
_ Oranees Skerbet.*—Dissolve a pound 
and half of sugar in a quartof very pure 
water; take nine fine oranges and two 
lemons; wipe them well witha napkin, 
and having grated the most fragrant 
rinds, squeeze on them the juice of these 
fruits ; sweeten this juice.with the above 
syrup, run the whole through a close 
hair sieve, and finish in the usual way, 
(See Sherbet.) 

Orance Shrudb.*—Put ten pounds of 
crushed sugar to two gallons of water, 
and boil it until the sugar be dissolved ; 
skim it well, and putit intoa tub; when 
quite cold, pour it into a barrel; add 
three quarts of Jamaica rum, and six 
quarts of orange-juice (take care there 
are no pips). Beat up the white of an 
egg, mix it with the shrub, and Jet it 
stand fora week; then draw it off and 
bottle it. : 

- Ordance Sugar.*—Rasp on a piece of 
sugar the rinds of the best oranges, but 
so lightly that not a particle of the white 


( 363 ) 


ORA 


is mixed with it; scrape off the surface 


of the sugar as it becomes coloured, and 
continue this operation until you have as 
much sugar as you require; then lay it 
in astove, or at the mouthof the oven to 
dry; when it is perfectly so, pass it 
through a very fine sieve. 

Lemons and cedrats may be grated, 
and the sugar dried in the same man- 
ner. ran 
Ornances en Surprise.* — Take ten 
oranges,choose them of avery good form, 
and the rinds smooth, close, and deep- 
coloured ; cut a piece. off the stalk end 
of the orange, being careful to make the 
knot exactly in the centre; then, with a 
tea-spoon, clear out all the juice, &c, 
from the oranges with the greatest care, 
so that the rind be not injured; separate 
the white from the juice, which filter and 
make into jelly. As every orange isthus 
emptied, plunge it into cold water, and 
afterwards lay them two inches apart, o 
asieve, round which place plenty of 
pounded ice. When about to be sent to 
table, fill each rind with the jelly, and 
lay the tops on; place six of themona 
napkin, neatly folded in a dish, and a 
seventh on the top, 

If you think proper, you may divide the 
rind in quarters, by which means. the 
clear jelly within will be shewn to great 
advantage. These oranges en surprise, 
are sometimes served in baskets made 
of coloured confectionary, P 

Orance Jarts,* —Pare the oranges 
very thin, put them into water for two or 
three days, changing the water several 
times; then boil them till tender, and 
the bitterness extracted; when cold, cut 
a thick slice off the top and bottom, 
and the rest as thick as a crown- piece: 
put a puff-paste into the tartlet-pans, 
tben a layer of sugar, and of orange, al- 
ternately, till the pans are full: bake 
them, 

Orance Tart,— Squeeze, pulp, and 
boil until tender, a couple of Seville 
oranges; then weigh them, and take 
double their weight of sugar; beat the 
orange and sugar together to a paste, and 
then add the juice and pnilp, of the 
oranges, and adda piece of butter the size 
ofa walnut, beat them alltogether. Then 
line a very shallow dish with a light puff- 
crust, and lay the orange in it.. You may 
ice it, if you think proper. 

Orange Wine.*—A. dozen of oranges 
to a gallon of water, and three pounds 
and a halfof fine loaf-sugar ; pare your 
oranges very thin, and take off all the 
white skin ; squeeze them well, then put 
the juice, the oranges, and the water to- 


gether, and let it stand in the tubf 


iS) 
four age Cwanty hours; then strain it off 


ORA 


and put it into a barrel with the sugar, 
half the peels, and a quart of the best 
brandy ; bung it down when it has done 
hissing. It must stand for twelve months 


before it is bottled. The water is to be. 


cold, not boiled. f 

Oranges (China) Zest of.— Pare off 

the outside rind of the oranges very thin, 
and only strew it over with fine powder- 
sugar, as much as their own moisture 
will take, and set them to dry in a hot 
stove. es 
~ OnancEeaDE.—Squeeze the juice} pour 
some boiling water on the peel, and cover 
it closely ; boil water and sugar to a thin 
syrup, and skim it; when all are cold, 
mix the juice, the infusion, and the 
syrop, with as much water as will make 
a rich sherbet; strain it through a jeliy- 
bag. 
Ditinewann=This refreshing bever- 
age is made precisely in the same man- 
ner as lemonade, only substituting 
oranges for lemons. bs 

OranceaDEe Pie.—Make a thin crust 
with hot buttered paste ; then slice the 
oranges, and lay over the bottom ; pare 
and core some pippins, cut each into 
eight parts, and lay them over the 
oranges; then lay the oranges on the 
pippins, and pour over them some syrup 
of orangeade, strew sugar over the top, 
close up the pie, bake it, then strew 
some sugar over it. 

OranceE (Bitter) Sauce. * —Pare two 
bitter oranges very thin, blanch the rinds, 
and then put them into a rich espagnole 
reduced; add a small piece of sugar, and 
season it well; just before serving, 
squeeze in the juice ofone of the oranges, 
and part of a lemon. . 
~ ORANGE (China) Juice to Preserve.— 
Take the finest China oranges that can be 
procured, squeeze from them a pint of 
juice ; strain it through a fine muslin, 
and let it simmer gently for twenty 
minutes, with three quarters of a pound 
of double-refined sugar; when cold, put 
it into small botties. 

Orance (China) Water Ice.—Rasp a 
China orange, take the juice of three 
oranges, and the juice of a lemon; add 
to it halfa pint of syrup, and half a pint 
of water; pass it, and freeze it rich, and 
thick. 

Oraners, Green.—Scrape out the in- 
sides of the oranges quite clean, then let 
them lie for three days in cold water, 
‘changing the water daily, then boil them 
very slowly till the water is bitter; then 
put them into other boiling water, set 
them by; repeating this daily till all the 
bitterness is extracted: make a rich 
syrup of the last water they are boiled in, 
with Lisbon sugar; when cold, put them 


( 364 ) 


ORA 


in; the next day boil them in the syrup ; 
repeat this till they are green and tender; 
cover with brandy-paper. ; : 
Orance (Seville) Water Ice. —Take off 
the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine 
and thin; squeeze the juice into a basin 
with one lemon; add halfa pint of syrup, 
and half a pint of water; pass them 
through a sieve, and freeze them rich. 
ORANGE Chtps.—Cut your oranges in 
halves, squeeze the juice througha sieve, 
let the peel soak in water, the following 
day boil itin the same till it is tender ; 
drain them, and slice the peels; put 
them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, 
and put all togetherinto a broad earthen 
dish, and put it over the fire at a moderate 
distance, stirring frequently till the chips 
candy ; then put them into a coo] room 
to dry. They will not be dry under 
three weeks. 
Orance Chips Brotled.— Take the 
rinds of oranges, cut them into small 
pieces, and having scalded them a short 
time, throw them into some sugar boiled 
to grande plume; stir them well, and 
when they are of a nice colour, dropthem 
on a baking.plate (previously oiled) like 
macaroons; strew a little powder-sugar 
over, and dry them in astove. 
The proportion of sugar is a pound and 
a half to one pound of the peel. 
OranGE Flower Balls.*—Whip up the 
whites of two eggs, with three pounds of 
powder-sugar, adding by degrees an 
ounce of orange-flower water, and a 


inch of carmine in powder; when these _ 


ingredients form a tolerably firm paste, 
pour it on a sheet of paper; cut it in 
pieces, which make into little balle, by 
rolling them in your hands; place them 
on paper about halfan inch apart; put 
them into the oven till they swelia little, 
then take them out, and keep them dry. 
Orance Flower Biscuits. — Take the 
volks of six eggs,{beat them up with three 
spoonsful of orange-flower marmalade, 
and some green lemon-peel grated; then 
add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to 
a froth, and a quarter of a pound of sifted 
flour; mix these together well, put. the 
he etme into paper-cases, bake them 
ae other biscuits, and glaze them when 
one. p . ‘ : 
OranceE Flower Biscuits a la Duchesse. 
—These are made in the same manner as 
orange-flower biscuits; the only difference 
consists in the ingredients; rice-flour 
sifted being substitnted for wheat-flour, 
and dried orange-flowers pulverized in- 
stead of the marmalade, and a pound of 
powder-sugar added. 
Ornance- Flower Biscuits Soufiés.* — 
Take the white of an egg, with which 
mix. some sifted sugar; when of a proper 


ee Tt ee 





IND ONT i PIR IAI I EE IN A aE A PAPE IIIS SLES, ESE LAPP IE ES. EE a i Soe 


ORA 


consistence, add two pinches of dried 
orange-flowers, mix them well, and half 


fill some very small paper-cases; put, 
them into a moderate oven, and when on | 
touching them lightly, you find them | 
| water to reach half way, cover, and 


firm, they aresufficiently baked. 
Orance Flowers Candied.—Boil some 
clarified sugar to souflé, and then throw 
in some picked orange-flowers, remove 
it from the fire, replace it in a quarter of 
an hour, and let it rise to souffl 
take it off a second time, and when about 
half cold, pour it into moulds, which 
place in a moderately heated stove ; keep 


it at the same temperature whilst the | 


eandy is drying ; when done, the top 


should sparkle like diamonds; set the | 


mouids on one side to drain for some 
time, before you turn out the .candy, 
which must be kept in a dry place. 


Orance-Flowers Clareguet. — Having | 


pared some golden pippins perfectly, slice 
the apples very thin, wash them in seve- 
ral waters, and then boil them slowly 


with a little water in a covered saucepan, 


until the apples are entirely reduced; 
strain it through a damp cloth, and mix 
with it over the fire, a spoonful of orange- 
flower marmalade, give them one boil to- 
ther, then strain it again through a 
amp cloth, boil an equal quantity of 
sugar to cassé, put the liquid, a little at 
a time, to this, let it stand a moment; 
then take it off, skim, and replace it on 
the fire, and when the whole has boiled 
up two or three times, pour it into glasses. 
Oranee- Flowers, Compoté of.*—Choose 
your flowers very white and well picked, 
throw them into boiling water, and blanch 
them till you can crush them with your 
fingers; then take them out, and put 
them in cold water with some lemon- 
juice; change the water several times, 
having lemon-juice in cach; then drain, 
and put them into clarified sugar (luke- 
warm), cover, and leave the flowers to 
imbibe the sugar for three or four hours., 
Ornance- Flower Conserve.—Boil half a 
- pound of clarified sugar to grande plume, 
take it from the fire, and pour into it a 
dessert spoonful of orange-flower water} 
stir them together well, set the mixture 
on the fire, and when warm, pour it into 
shallow paper-cases; let it cool, and 
then cut it into cakes of any form you 
please. : ’ 
Orance- Flower Cream.—Having boil- 
ed a pint of cream with the same quan- 
tity of milk, add some sugar, and a small 
quantity of salt, and when it boils, put in 
a good pinch of erange-flowers; cover, 
and continue to boil until the cream is 
well flavoured with the flowers ; then mix 
with it the yolks of ten or six eggs, ac- 
cording tothe size of your mould, stir 


( 365 ) 


é again; 


ORA 


them over the fire, taking care not to let 
it boil; take it off, put in the clarified 
isinglass, and rub it through a silk sieve ; 
pour it into a mould or cups, which place 
in a pan, with a sufficient quantity of 
put 
fire on the lid, to prevent the steam from 
dropping on the cream}; when done, let 
it cool. Ifthe cream is for cups, as many 
eggs must be put in as you have cups. 

Orance Flower Créme.* — Put five 
pounds of sugar into three quarts of pure 
water; when the former is quite dissolv. 
ed, and has boiled, put to it a pound 
and three quarters of picked orange 
flowers, and pour it into a vessel, which 
cover very closely till cold, then add 
three quarts of Champagne wine, and the 
same of rectified spirits of wine; leave 
it, and the next day filter and bottle it. 

Orance Flowers Fromage Bavarois.* 
— Throw a handful of picked crange- 
flowers into a pint of boiling cream, 
cover and let it cool; then (if the cream 
is sufficiently flavoured) strain, and mix 
it with another pint of thick cream 3 beat 
it aver ice (ill it acquires the proper con- 
sistence ; mix pounded sugar with some 
clarified isinglass; put this mixture to 
the cream, stirring continually ; when of 
the proper thickness fill your mould, and 
surround it with ice. 

Orance Flower Giteau Soufilée.*— 
Take half a pound of fresh orange-flowers 
picked, and two pounds of fine sugar; 
put the white of an egg, and a small 
quantity of sifted sugar into a basin, and 
beat them to the consistence of cream 
cheese. Dissolve your sugar, skim, and 
in a little time add the orange-flowers, 
and then boil the sugar to petit cassé ; 
take it from the fire, and put to it half a 
spoonful of the beaten egg; then, with a 
spatula, stir quickly round the sides of 
the pan; the moment the syrup rises, 
cease till it falls, then stir again till it 
rises a second time, when it must be 
poured into moulds or cases (well ciled), 
and sift sugar over the surface. The 
juice of half a Jemon added to the ingre- 
dients increases the whiteness of the 
gdteau souflée ; if, however, you wish it 
coloured, put a small quantity of the re- 
quisite colouring material into the white 
of egg whilst beating. 

Orance Flowers (Grillage of).*— 
Boil half a pound of sugar to la plume, 
and then mix with it a quarter of a 
pound of picked orange. flowers, stir them 
well, and when the flowers have taken a 
good colour, squeeze over them the juice 
ofalemon; then put alayer of nonpareil 
ona dish, on which spread the grillage of 
orange- flowers, then the nonpared/ again, 
and $ i alternately, until all your ma- 


, 


ORA 
“terial is used, when put it in the stove to 


ry. ae ea 

- Ornance Flower Ice.*—Dissolve three 
pounds of sugar in five pints of water; 

uta pound of well picked orange-flowers 
-into.a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup 
on them, close the vessel hermetically, 
and let it stand five hours, then strain it 
in the sorbetiére, and ice it as usual. 
(See Ice). ) 

OrancE Flower Jelly Printannier au 
Caramel.* —Having clarified three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, boil haif of it to 
caramel; then take it from the fire, and 
add to it one ounce four drachms of fresh 
gathered orange-flowers, stir them in 
with a silver spoon, and when quite cold, 
pour on it two glasses of boiling water ; 
then set the mixture on hot ashes till 
the caramel sugar is dissolved; as soon 
as it is so, strain, and mix with it the 
remainder of the sugar, and an ounce.of 
clarified isinglass; finish your jelly as 
directed. (See Jelly Printannier). 

Orance Flower Marchpane.*— Take 
six ounces of orange-flower marmalade, 
two pounds of sweet almonds, and a 
pound and a half of sugar; blanch and 
pound the almonds to a very fine paste 5 
‘clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulé, 
then add the almond paste and marma- 
lade to it; stir them till of the proper 
consistence ; and when cold, make your 
marchpane into cakes, whatever size and 
shape you please. ; 

Orance Flower Marmalade.*—Take a 
pound of orange-flowers, and two pounds 
of sugar ; take the fibres from the flowers 
which throw into a saucepan of cold 
water; when all are done, squeeze over 
them the juice of one large or two small 
lemons; set this on the fire, constantly 
stirring till the flowers give to the touch, 
then take them out, and lay them ona 
sieve, pouring cold water on them till 
they are quite cold. Put them into a 
mortar, and pound them to a sort of 
paste, which mix with the sugar boiled 
to boulé ; boil them together a few times 
then take it off, and mix with ita pound 
of apple jelly; as soon as they are tho- 
roughly incorporated, the marmalade 
may be put into pots, which must not, 
however, be covered till cold. 

Orance Flower Pastils.—Pulverise a 
good pinch of dried orange-flowers ; 
pound them with gum-dragon, pre- 
viously dissolved in one glass of plain, 
and the same quantity of orange-flower 
water; add a sufficient proportion of 
powder-sugar, to make the paste of the 
requisite consistence, which form accord- 
“ to your taste into cones, lozenges, 


ee 
OranGE Flower Pralinés.*— Take a 


( 366 ) 


ORA 


‘pound of very fresh white orange-fiowers, 


pick, and throw them into cold water; 
clarify, and boil two pounds of sugar to 
sougié, then put in the flowers; stir 
them with a spatula, until your sugar 
regains the degree of souffié ; take the 
pan from the fire, and continue stirring 
till the sugar is separated from the 
flowers, and becomes a powder; set it 
in a stove to dry, then set the whole on a 
sieve, that the sugar may run through 
and leave the flowers, which put into 
bottles. Hf preserved in a dry place they 
will keep for twelve months. 

OranGe Flowers to Preserve.— Take 
the orange-flowers just as they begin to 
open ; put them into boiling water, and 
let them boil very quickly till they are 
tender, putting ina little juice of lemon as 
they boil, to keep them white, then drain 
them, and. carefully dry them between 
two napkins; put them into clarified su- 
gar, (asufticient quantity to cover them), 
the next day drain the syrup, and boil it 
a little smooth ; when almost cold, pour 
it on the flowers ; the following day drain 
them, and lay them out to dry, dusting 
them a very little. 

OranceE Flowers (Ratafia of ).*—Dis- 
solve three pounds of sugar ina suificient 
quantity of water, set it on the fire, add 
a pound of well-picked orange-flowers, 
and give the whole one boil, then let it 
coo], and pour it intoa jar, put to it three 
quarts of the best brandy; cover the 
vessel very close, and leave it a fort- 
night; after which filter, and bottle the 
ratafia, | Ye , 

Ornance Flowers (Syrup of ).*—Clarify 


and boil four pounds of sugar to perlé, — 


then add three quarters of a pound of 
fresh orange-flowers picked, and_ boil 
them once; then take the pan from the 
fire, and let it stand for two hours, after 
which, replace it on the fire; when it 
has had about a dozen boilings, pour it 
through a sieve into another saucepan, 
boil the syrup to “ssé, and put it aside; 
when quite cold, bottle it. The flowers 
may be used as follows: put them into 
powder-sugar, with which rub them well 
with your hands, till quite dry, then sift 
and put them in a stove. ue 

Orancr Flower Water.*—Put intoa 
still ten pounds of fresh gathered orange- 
flowers, and six quarts .of pure river 
water; take particular care to close up 
all the apertures of the still perfectly, 
and set it on a moderate fire, that the 
ebullition may not be too strong; be 
particular in cooling it frequently, or, at 
least, whenever the water in the boiler 
becomes too warm, change it, and putin 
fresh; much depends on the attention 
paid to this part of the operation. From 


* ah cS A ek. 


eee 


i een ONES re 


oh A AT 








ORG 
the above quantity, three quarts of 
orange-flower water may be drawn. 

Orance Flower (Double) Water.* — 
Draw four quarts of orange- flower water 
from six quarts distilled as above; put 
to this water the same quantity of fresh 
flowers, distil it in the same manner, and 
it will yield five pints. 

Orance Peel to Candy.*—Take some 
Seville orange peel, and let it soak in 
several waters till it has lost its bitter- 
ness, then boil it in a solution of double 
refined sugar iu water, till it becomes 
tender and transparent. 

» Orance Peel, to Preserve.¢—Cut the 
oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put 
the peel in strong salt and spring water, to 
soak for three days,repeat this three times, 
then put them ona sieve to dry; take one 
pound of loaf-sugar, add to it one quart 
of spring water, boil it, skim it until quite 
clear ; let the peels simmer until they are 
ae transparent ; dry them before the 
re; take loaf-sugar, with just sufficient 
water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is 
boiling, put in the peels, stirring con- 
tinually until all the sugar is candied 
round them, then put them to dry either 
before the fire or in an oven, and when 
perfectly dried, put them by for use. 

Oranee Peel (Ratafia of ).— Put the 

eels of a dozen’ thick-skinned oranges 
into a gallon of brandy; dissolve two 
pounds of sugar in the juice of :the 
oranges, add to it the brandy, and hav- 
ing stirred them together well, close the 
vessel tightly, and leave it for a month 5 
then strain it off, and bottle it. 

ORGEAT.*—Blancha pound ofsweet, 
and twenty-four bitter almonds; pound 
them to an exceedingly fine paste, adding 
water occasionally to prevent their oil- 
ing; mix a gallon of water, two pounds 
of sugar and orange-flower water, with 
this paste; beat them together for some 
time; then strain it two or three times 
through a por tee: stirring it with a 
spatula, and serve it in decanters. 

Orceat Paste.— Pound the almonds 
with 2 little orange-flower water to a fine 
paste, and then work up with itan equal 
weight of powder-sugar. This paste will 
keep a long while, and by dissolving a 
small portion of it in water, and straining 
it, orgeat may be prepared very.quickly. 
An ounce of the paste is sufficient for 
halfa pint of water. 

OrGeEat (Syrup of).*—Take a pound 
and ahalf of sweet, and half a pound of 
bitter almonds, throw them into boiling 
water, and leave them till the skins can 
be removed with éase, then throw them 
into cold water for a minute before you 
blanch them, after which, they must 
again be put into cold water; then 


( 367 ) 


OVE 


pound them, a few at a time, in a marble 
mortar, adding occasionally some water 
to prevent their oiling; when all are 
beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this 
with the greater part of a quart of water, 
(of which reserve six ounces); put the 
paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and 
wring out all the milk from the almonds 
put the latter into the mortar, an 

pound them again, adding by degrees 
the remainder of the water, and then 
squeeze these also in a cloth; pour the 
whole of this milk into a matrass, large 
enough to contain, at least, one-third 
more liquid, add to it two pounds of 
lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower 
water; cork the matrass tight, and set 
it on a dain marie; when the sugar is 
completely dissolved, (which should be 
accelerated by shaking the matrass occa- 
sionally), lessen the fire by degrees, and 
as soon as the vessel is quite cold, put 
the syrup into bottles. 

‘If you should have no matrass, you 
may make your syrup in the following 
manner : boil the above mentioned 
quantity of sugar to forte plume, then 
add the milk of almonds, and as soon ag 
it has boiled up twice, take it from the 
fire; when cold, flavour it with a pint of 
orange-fiower water. 

Or this syrup may be made ina still 
more simple way, as thus: put the milk 
of almonds into some pounded sugar, 
without being clarified or boiled pre- 
viously; when the syrup begins to boil, 
add about a coffee-cupful of orange-flower 
water, and after it has boiled up two or 
three times, take it from the fire; let 
it get quite cold before you bottle it. 
Keep it well corked. 

Orceat /Vater.—Pound a quarter of a 
pound of sweet and two or three bitter 


| almonds (blanched) and two ounces of 


the four cold seeds; add a little water 
occasionally to prevent the almonds from 
oiling ; put this paste into a bowl, and 
mix with it a quart of water and two 
ounces of powder-sugar, in about an 
hour’s time, strain itinto a decanter. A 
little milk may be added, if required, 
particularly white. — 

ORTOLANS ¢@0 Roast.—They should 
be picked and singed, but not drawn ; put 
them on skewers, with bacon round them, 
tie them tothe spit; when they are done, 
strew them over with grated bread ; or 
they may be spitted sideways, with a 
bay-leaf between, and the dish should 
be garnished all round with fried bread- 
crumbs. 

OVEN (Directions for the).—Be very 
careful to keep your oven clean, and that 
there are no remains of sugar or fat that 
may have run over from any thing that 


OX 


has been baking. Pufi-pastes require a | 


moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or 
it will spoil the shape and turn it over} 


tart-paste, or short crust, requires a | 


slower oven; petits-choux, one still 


slower 3; but for raised pies, let it be as | 


hot as for puff-paste at first, and: well 
closed, so that the pies may not fall. 
Therefore, when you give adinner where 
paste is yecessary, endeavour to make it 
in the morning ; heat your oven first for 
the puff-paste, which must be baked the 
first; then let the oven go gradually 
down, and bake your pastes in rotation, 
as the heat falls. Savoy biscuits require 
a cool oven, and, by degrees, raise the 
heat as the biscuits are baking. For 
souffiés or light puddings, have a gentle 
oven, and contrive so as to have them 


ready by the time they are wanted, or | 


they will fall. The greatest attention 
should also be paid in heating the oven 
for baking cakes, particularly for those 
that are large. If not pretty quick, the 
batter wil] not rise. Should you fear its 
catching by being too quick, put paper 
over the cake to prevent its being burnt. 
If not jong enough lighted to have a body 
of heat, or if it has become slack, the 
cake will be heavy. To know when it 
is soaked, take a broad bladed knife 
that is very bright, and plunge it into 
the centre; draw it instantly out, and 
if the least stickiness adheres, put the 
cake immediately in, and shut up the 
oven. Ifthe heat was sufficient to raise, 
but not te soak, fresh fuel must be 
quickly put in, and the cakes kept hot 
until the oven is fit to finish the soaking, 
but this must onlv be done in a case of 
great emergency ; for those who are em- 
ployed ought to be particularly careful 
that no mistake occur from negligence. 

Ox Cheek Boiled, to be eaten Cold.— 
Bore and thoroughly cleanse an ox- 
cheek, tien let it steep in white-wine for 
twelve hours ; then season it with salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll 
it up, tie it tight with tape, boil it in 
water, salt, and vinegar, till it is very 
tender; press it hard, and when quite 
cold, cut it into slices, and serve with oil 
and vinegar. 

Ox Cheek Pie.—Bone them, and soak 
them thoroughly in water, boil them ten- 
der, cleanse them very well, take out the 
balls of the eyes, season with pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, then mince some beef 
and some beef suet ; lay this at the bot- 
tom of the dish, then put in the cheeks 
with a few whole cloves, close up the pie 
or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. 
For paste, as follows:—half a peck of 
flour, the whites of half a dozen eggs, two 
pounds and a half of butter, work the 


( 368 ) 












Ox 
butter and eggs up dry in the flour, then 


add a little water to make ita stiff paste, — 


and work up alleold, Tee. 
Ox Cheek Potted.—Take an ox cheek 


and theroughly wash it, then bone it, rub. 


it over with the same ingredients that are 
used for potted beef, and set it in the 
oven until it is tender; then takeout the 
fat, the skin, and the palate ; add to a 
pound of the meat two-ounces of the fat 
which swims on the top of the liquor, 
beat it together in a mortar, and finish 
the same as for potted beef.. peti bee't 

Ox Cheek Stewed.—Take halfa head, 
let it soak for three hours, and thoroughly 
clean it with plenty of water. Take the 
meat off the bunes, and put it into a pan 
with a large onion, @ bunch of sweet 
herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and 
salt. Place the bones on the top, p 
on two or three quarts of water, an 
cover the pan very closely with brown 
paper ; let it stand eight or ten hours in 
a slow oven, or let it simmer by the side 
of the fire. When tender, put the meat 
intoa clean pan, and let it get quite cold, 
Take off the cake of fat, and warm tke 
head in pieces in the soup: put in what 
vegetable you think best. 4 

Ox Cheek Stewed. —Soak and well wash 
the day before it is to be eaten, a fine ox 
cheek, put it into a stew-pot that will 
cover close, with three quarts of water, 
and after it has boiled up once and been 
well skimmed, let it simmer ;. in two 
hours, add plenty of carrots, leeks, two 
or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
some whole pepper, and four ounces of 
allspice; skim it often; when the meat is 
tender, take it out; let the soup get 
cold, take off the fat, and serve the sou 
either separate or with the meat. It 
ought to be of a nice brown colour, which 
may be done by buriit sugar, or by fry- 
ing some onions quite brown with flour, 
and simmering them with it. This last 
method extremely improves the flavour 
of all soups and gravies of the brown 
kind. If vegetables are not liked in the 
soup, they can be taken out, and a small 
roll toasted, or fried bread, may be ad 
Celery is a very great improvement, an 


should always be served. Whencelery 


cannot be procured, theseed is a most ex- 
cellent substitute, boiled in, and strained 


off. 
_ Ox Cheek Stewed.—Put it to stew with 
just sufficient water to cover it, let it 
simmer for two hours; peel it, and put 


it into the liquor again, with some pep- 


per, salt, mace, cloves, and € 
pepper, tied up in a bit of muslin; a 
few capers, turnips cut into very small 
ieces, and carrots sliced, half a pint of 
ef gravy, a little white wine, and a 


2 a a 


er 


ae 


La 


Screed. sanidiiins 


a 


i AI LT a pO I 





| 
| 
i 
| 
5 
5 


erie 8S 


A ie EA ee eae fap ees Lp ae del 


Ox ( 369 ) OX 


bunch of sweet herbs; let it stew very 
gently till it is tender, then take out the 
spice and sweet herbs, and _thicken it 
with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

Ox Feet Fried.—Boil them till they 
are tender, skin and split them, take out 
the bones and fry them in butter; when 
they have fried for a short time, put in 
some mint and parsley, shred small, a 
little salt, some beaten pepper; beat up 
the yolks of eggs with some mutton 

ravy and vinegar, the juice of eithera 
emon or an orange, and a little nutmeg; 
lay your fry in the dish, and pour the 
sauce over it. You may add a little shred 
onion, if you think proper. 

Ox Palates.*—The palate should be 
soaked for several hours, and then scald- 
ed until the second skin can be easily 
removed on scraping with a knife, when 
it should be put into cold water, and 
thoroughly cleaned and trimmed, that is, 
all the black parts cleared away; then 
put it in a dlane for four or five hours, 
or more, if necessary ; if, on pressing, the 
meat is flexible, it is sufficiently done, 
and may be taken out, and is fit to be 
dressed in any way you think proper, 
and served with any sauce. 

Ox Palates Atreaux.*—Cut some ox- 
palates (previously cooked in a 6/anc) 
into pieces an inch and a quarter square, 

ut them intoasauce @ (’atelet, fry them 

ightly in it, and let them cool; cuta cold 

beiled calf’s udder into thin slices, the size 
of the palates; put these alternately, 
and with great regularity, on skewers, 
take care that all four sides are even ; 
bread them well in the usual manner ; 
place them ona gridiron over a moderate 
' fire, and broil three sides, colour the 
fourth with the salamander. Serve them 
witha clear gravy espagnole, Italienne, 
or without any sauce if you like it better. 
- Ox Palates ad la Béchamel.*—Prepare 
the palates in a d/anc, and then cut them 
into small square pieces, put them into 
a bechamel, in which fry them lightly ; 
season with a little pepper, and serve 
them very hot. 

Ox Palates in Blanquette.*—Make an 
allemande, and when nearly done, put in 
the palates previously blanched, and cut 
into small square pieces; just before 
serving, add a diaéson of yolks of eggs 
with the juice of alemon. Garnish the 
dish with croutons. 

Ox Palates Broiled.* — Cut some 
blanched ox-palates in slices, which 
soak for some hours in a marinade com- 
posed of oil, with salt, pepper, parsley, 
scallions, onions sliced, and lemon-juice; 
then take them out, bread and broil 
them. Serve with sauce piqguante. 

Ox Palates, Collops of.—Take two 


braised ox-palates, cut them into pieces 
the size of a half-crown, have ready 
twice as many pieces of puff-paste cut 
rather larger than the palates ; between 
every two put a slice of the palates, and 
a little forcemeat on each side of it; 
press the edges of the paste together, 
and fry the collops to a nice colour. 

Ox Palates, Coguilles of.*—Cut ox- 
palates into dice, cut also into dice an 
equal number of mushrooms, put them 
into a well-reduced allemande, with a 
little butter, parsley, and lemon-juice ; 
put this preparation into shells; cover 
it with bread-crumbs and grated Parme- 
san-cheese, with a little melted butter; 
colour them in an oven, or with a sala- 
mander. 

Ox Palates en Crépinettes.*—When 
the palates are taken out of the dlanc, 
put them under a heavy weight; as soon 
as they are cold, trim them to about the 
length of your finger 3 cut a d¢zen onions 
into dice, blanch and cool, then put them 
into a dlanc witha piece of butter, salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, garlic, and bay-ieaf; 
when they are sufficiently done, add two 
ladlesful of velouté, and reduce your 
onions to a paste, thicken it with the 
yolks of four eggs, let it cool, and then 
cover the palates completely ; wrap each 
in a pig’s caul, lay them in a deep dish, 
and put them into an oven to colour; 
serve them with a clear gravy and to- 
mata-sauce. : 

Ox Palates, Cromesquis of.* — Cut 
four ox-palates, a throat sweetbread, 
twelve good-sized mushrooms, and four 
truffles, into dice; put the two latter 
into rome allemande, reduce them to a 
paste, then add the palates and sweet- 
bread, a piece of butter the size of a wal-: 
nut, and a little nutmeg, mix these to- 
gether, and when cold, make them into 
parcels the size of the little finger ; cut 
a tready-dressed calf’s udder into very 
thin slices, all the same size, wrap each 
parcel in a slice of the udder, dip them 
in batter, and fry the cromesquis; serve 
with fried parsley. 

Ox Palutes, Croquettcs of.*—Having 
boiled the palates in a blanc as usual, 
cut them into dice; have ready some 
reduced velouté, to which add two or 
three yolks of eggs, and a small piece of 
butter, put the minced palates into this, 
stirring them well together; then with a 
spoon, lay about thirty little heaps of 
this on a tin, and when cool, form them 
with your hands of any shape you please ; 
roll them in bread-crumbs, then dip 
them in eggs (well beaten and seasoned - 
with pépper and salt), roll them again in 
bread-crumbs, and fry them in a very 
hot pan ; serve them on fried parsley. 


** 
eee ve 


e 
; 
’ 
i 
*£ 
z 





#4 


a Ex et ig 
< Ree ee ee 


Ox 


. Ox Palates, Croquettes of.*—Take two 
or three ox palates, previously blanched, 
cut each in half, lengthwise, and simmer 
them over a small fire in some stock, 
with a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, 
two cloves, basil, salt, and pepper ;1n half 
an hour take them out, drain and let 
them cool, then lay on every piece a thin 
layer of meat farce, roll up your palates, 
and dip each in a batter made of flour, 
diluted with a spoonful of olive oil, half 
@ pint of white wine, and a little salt ; 
fry them a nice colour, and garnish with 
fried parsley. 

¢ Ox Palates au Gratin.* Trim the 
palates carefully,and blanch them ; when 
cold cut them into slices, and give them 
a few turns in a little butter, and two 
onions, then add a little ham (also cut in 
slices), some gravy, stock, cullis, and @ 
bouquet garni ; let these boil an Lour, 
then skim it, put in a little mustard, and 
serve it ona gratin as follows. Makea 
mince of fowl] livers, to which add grated 
bacon, parsley, scaliions, mushrooms, 
(all shred small) salt, and pepper, mix 
these together with the yolks of two 
eggs, and spread it over a dish, which 
place on hot ashes; as soon as the gratin 
is formed, drain off the fat, and put the 
palates on the gratin and serve. 

Ox Palates au Gratin.*— Cut your 
palates (prepared as usual) into long 
thin slices, about two inches wide; spread 
over them some farce cuzte (see that ar- 
ticle) ; cut a calf’s udder into slices the 
size of the others, lay these on the farce 
with a little of the same spread on them 
also; roll them up, and lay them round 
a dish in which you have placed a layer 
of the furce ; when all are done, cover 
them with bacon, and put them in. the 
oven for about half an hour ; then drain 
away the fat, pour an Jtalienne into the 
centre and serve. 

Ox Palates, with Herbs.* —Cut the 
palates into farthings, do the same with 
an equal quantity of eall’s udder, have 
some herbs @ papillotes (see that article), 
mix them with a small quantiry of farce, 
and guvenelle, unite them with the yolks 
of two eggs; lay a little of this on a sil- 
ver or other dish that will bear the fire, 
then place the palate, and udder, alter- 
nately, all over the farce, of which put 
another layer in the form of a pyramid; 
cover the whole with raspings and a little 
melted butter; pour a glass of white 
wine over it, and set it on the fire ; colour 
the top with the salamander, Serve 
eles with reduced Jéakenne or espag- 
nole. 

Ox Palates a I’ Italienne.*—Cut the 
palates into farthings, which put intoa 
Stewpan with a glass of white wine, 


( 370 ) 


‘mushrooms, parsley, all shred small, re- 


put them in an oven. 


Ox 


duce the whole to a glaze, then add a 
spoonful of espagnole, and a little glaze. 
Serve very hot with croutons. pe) 
. Ox Palates, a la Mariette. — Having 
well scalded the palates, peel, and cut: 
each in two, lengthwise ; put a thin slice 
of ham, and another of bacon, between 
every two pieces, tie them. together, and 
put them into some broth with parsley, 
and scallions, two cloves, salt, and pep- 
per ; when done, serve with consommé, 
and a little lemon-juice. 1m pete 

Ox Palates a la Marmotie.* — Take 
two or three scalded ox-palates, cut 
them, and some pickled pork into slices ; 
boil the latter till half done; add. the 
palates, wifh parsley, shalots, anda clove 
of garlic, all chopped small, some whole 
pepper, and a glass of white wine ; boil 
the whole together; when nearly done, 
put the meat into a dish for table, strew 
plenty of bread-crumbs over, colour it in 
the oven, and serve it with any thick 
sauce, : 

Ox Palates, in Moulds.—Take. a num- 
ber of small timbale moulds, in each of 
which put some veal caul; braise and 
cut the palates into thin slices, the size. 
of the moulds ; make a good forcemeat 
with the trimmings of the palates and 
some fowl ; put layers of this and the 
slices of palates, alternately, till each 
mould is nearly full, cover each wi 
chopped truffles, over which lay another 
slice of palate; wrap the. caul over, and 
When done, take 
them out, carefully wipe off the fat, and 
serve them with any sauce you think 
proper. 

Ox Palates, Paupiaties.* — Prepare 
some ox palates, and calf’s udder, as for 
gratm, only cutting the slices rather 
wider; when rolled up as therein direct- 
ed, rub them all over with a sauce d@ ate- 
let; then bread and egg them like ecro- 
quettes, fry them of a nice colour, and 
serve with fried parsley. __ 

Ox Palates, Pickled.—Wash the pa- 
lates clean, with salt and water; then let 
them boi] in salt.and water ; skim them 
very clean; let them simmer four or five 
hours, and season them with pepper, 
cloves, and mace; when they are tender, 
cut them into pieces, and let them cool. ~ 
Make a pickle with equal quantities of 
white wine and vinegar}; boil it, and put 
in the spice that was bejled with the pa- 
lates ; add six or seven bay-leaves, and 
some fresh spice; when both are cold, 
put them together, and keep them for 
use. 

Ox Palates 4 la Poulette,*—The pa- 
lates being blanched, give them a few 
turns in some butter, with sweet herbs, 











Sa 8 SE A NRE Gt i Bi EA NR TA EIEN pL = PBEM FEL PIR, EA CI + alee Rag iss ae BENS 


Ox 


shred small; then put them into a sauce- 


pan, with a small quantity of flour, a 


spoonful of velouté, salt, and pepper 5 let 
these boil till. pretty well reduced ; just 
before it is served, add two or three yolks 


of eggs, and some cream, a little verjuice, | | 
| pork, cut in piecee, salt, and pepper. 


or vinegar, 

Ox talates & la Proveneale.—Braise, 
and cut some ox palates into small pie- 
ces; put them into a stewpan, with some 
butter, two spoonsful of oil, two chopped 


shalots, a clove of garlic, five or six tar-— 


ragon leaves, mushrooms, parsley, salt, 
whole pepper, and grated nutmeg ; when 
these have simmered for a quarter of an 
hour, add a glass of white wine, the same 


of eullis, and consommé, then give the | 


whole one boil, take off the fat, and serve 
with a little lemon-jnice, 


Ox Palates, Roasted.—Boil them until | 


they are tender, blanch them, cut them 
into slices, about two or three inches in 
length; take some pigeons, and very 
small chickens, draw, truss, and fill them 
with forceimeat; let half of them be nearly 
larded, spit them on a bird-spit in the 
following manner :—a bird, a palate, a 
sage-leaf, and a bit of bacon ; have ready 
two sweetbreads, .cut in pieces, some 
artichoke bottoms, cut in pieces, some 
oysters, and some blanched cockscombs, 
all fried ; rub the dish with some shalots, 
lay the chickens, the pigeons, and what 
is roasted in the middle, and arrange the 
other things roundthem. Then makea 
sauce in the following manner: a quarter 
of a pint of red wine, a pint of gravy, the 
liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little 


lemon-juice, and a bit of butter rolled in | 


flour; let it boil till it has obtained the 
consistence of cream ; then pour it over 
the palates in the dish. 

Ox Palates, Stewed.— Thoroughly 
clean four or five palates, put them into 
a pan with sufficient water to cover them; 
tie them down, and bake, or boil them $ 
when tender, peel them, cut them into 
pieces, flour them, put them into some 
good gravy, withan onion, a few pounded 
cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and some 
ketchup, let them stew for half an hour, 
take out the lemon-peel and onion ; add 
some morels, forcemeat bal}s, and lemon- 
juice. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

Ox Palates, Timbale of. — Having 
blanched the palates as usual, cut them 
into lozenges, have a timbale. ready. at 
the bottom of which put a layer of godz- 
weau, or other farce, then a layer of the 
palates, another of the farce, and on that 
one of truffles cut in thin slices, and 
proceed in this manner till the timbale is 
quite full; cover the whole with rasp- 
ings, and pour a little beef gravy, or rich 
broth into it, and bake it to anice colour, 


( 371 ) 





OXF 


Ox Tail, with Cabbages.—Scald and 
boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put 
it into some broth, with a bunch of 
parsley, shalots, a bay-leaf, and three 
cloves; in an hour’s time add a savoy 
(previously scalded), a pound of pickled 


When done, take it out, drain off all the 
fat, and put the whole into 2 tureen, 
together, with cullis, or broth, to make 
it more or less liquid according to your 
pleasure. 

Ox Tail braised en Hochepot.*—Cut an 
ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for 
two hours, then seald it for half an hour; 
put it into cold water, drain and trim it. 
Lay slices ofjbacon, and pieces of veal or 
beef in astewpan, put in the tail, cover 
it with bacon, add three or four carrots, 
four or five onions (one stuck with three 
cloves) a little thyme, two bay-leaves, 
and some stock ; set the pan on a brisk 
fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let 
it stew gently for two hours; when done, 
lay the ox tail ina dish, pour over some 
carrots, cut in pieces, and done up in a 
little velewté, and garnish the edge of 
the dish with lettuces, braised and 
glazed. 

Ox tails, when ‘braised as above, may 
be served with various articles, instead 
of the lettuces, according to taste. 

Ox Tail, a la Ste. Méenéhould.*—Pre- 
pare and braise an ox tail as for Hoche- 
pot; when done, season them with salt 
and pepper ; soak. them in melted but-. 
ter, bread them twice, and colour them 
in the oven or on the gridiron. 

Ox Tail Pie (Hot).*—Braise two or 
three ox tails; when about three parts 
done, take them eut and cut them in 
piéces; prepare your pie, at the bottom 
of which, lay a slice or two of ham; then 
putin the tails, cover them with bacon 
and thin slices of bacon, finish the pie 
and bake it; when done, take out the 
baeon, skim off the fat, and pour into 
the pie a rich sauce of any kind. 

Ox Rump Soup.—This soup made with 
two or three rumps of beef will be much 
stronger than when made with a much 
larger quantity of weat without the 
rumps. Itis made in the same manner 
as gravy-soup, and give it what flavour 
or thickening youthink proper. 

OXFORD John.*—Cut a stale leg of 
mutton into as thin collops as you can, cut 
out all the fat sinews, season them with 
salt, pepper, and mace; strew amongst 
them a little shred parsley, thyme, and 
two or three shalots; put a good lump 
of butter into a stewpan}; as soon #s It is 
het, putin all your collops, keep stirring 
them with a wooden spoon til] they are 
three parts done; then add half a pint 








See ae ET EOS NET I eee eT a ES RES eR a eae ieee eee ee Re a ee ee ae 


OYS 


of gravy, a little piece of lemon, thicken 
it with flour and butter rolled up, let 
them simmer four or five minutes, and 
they will be quick enough; if you let 
them boil, or have them ready before 
wanted, they will be hard; strew fried 
pieces of bread over and round them; 
serve hot. 3 

OYSTERS, to Choose.—The goodness 
of oysters consists in their being healthy 
and properly relished; there are several 
kinds; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Mil- 
ford are considered by far the best. The 
native Milton are reckoned particularly 
fine, being the whitest and the fattest ; 
but others may be said to possess both 
these qualities in a certain degree by 
proper feeding. When they are alive 
and vigorous, the shell will close fast 
upon the knife. ‘They should be eaten 
as they are opened, the flavour becomes 
poor otherwise. The rock oyster is the 
largest, but it has usually acoarse flavour 
when eaten raw. 

Oysters, Attelets af.-~Fry soine sweet 
herbs in a little butter, with a little flour, 
and oyster-liquor; season this sauce 
well, reduce and thieken it with the 
yolks of three eggs. Have ready some 
oysters blanched in*their own liquor; 
put them on skewers, and the above 
sauce being cold, spread it completely 
over the skewered oysters; roll them 
in bread-crumbs, dip them in beaten 
eggs, bread them a second time, and fry 
them of a nice colour. 

Oysters in Batter.—Make a batter 
with the yolk of one egg (or more, ac- 


cording to the quantity of oysters you 


intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some 
beaten mace, a little flour, and a little 
salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in 
hog’s-lard to a nice light brown. If 
agreeable, a litile parsley, shred very 
fine, may be put into the batter. 
Oysters av Blond.*—Put a few mo- 


rels and a little parsley into some melted. 


butter; set them on the fire, and moisten 
with a glass of white wine, and the same 
of veal gravy or good consommé, do these 
together, and when of a tolerable con- 


-sistence, add some oysters, previously 


blanched in their owu liquor; let the 
whole simmer for some time, and then 
serve. 

Oysters, Botled.—Let the shells be 
very nicely cleaned first, and serve in 
them; boiled oysters should be eaten 
with cold butter. 

Oysters, Brotled.—Take two dozen 
oysters from their shells, put them, with 
their own liquor, intoa saucepan, just 
blanch them, and then take away the 
water, put a piece of butter, a pinch of 
parsley, the same of shalots (veth shred), 


( 372 ) 


OYS 


toss them in this, but do not let them 
boil; then replace them in their shells, 
with a little lemon-juice and raspings, 
set them on the gridiron, and when they 
broil, take them offand serve. = — 

Oysters en Coguilles.*—Havying taken 
the oysters from their shells, put them 
with their own liquor ‘into ‘a stewpau 3 
let them brown but not boil. Prepare 
some shalots, parsley, mushrooms, grated 
bacon, oil, bntter, and spices, as directed 
for Herbs ad Papillotes ; mix the oysters 
with these, and then put them altogether 
into shells, and cover them with bread- 
crumbs ; set the shells on a gridiron over 
a brisk fire; colour the top by means of 
asalamander. —. iia be 

Oysters d@ la Daube.—Make a season- 
ing of parsley, basil, and chives, cut very 
small; open the oysters, loosen them, 
but do not take them out of the bottom 
shell ; puta little of the seasoning to each 
oyster, with pepper, and a little white 
wine} put on the top shel], and put these 


‘on the gridiron; lay from time to time 


ared hot shovel over them; and when 
they are done, take off the upper shell, 
and serve them to table in the under one. 

Oysters @ l’Hau.*—Put a glass of 
consommé, and half a glass of the oyster 
liquor into a dish,and keep them hot; 
beard as many oysters as you may re- 
quire; blanch and toss them up in some 
lard, with a _few sweet herbs; let them 
simmer till done, then put them into the 
dish with the consommé, and serve them. 

OysTERs and Eggs.*—Put intoa stew- 


pan halfa pound of fresh butter, some par- . 


sley, scallions, and morels, shred small, 
season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; 
when the butter is melted, put in about 
four dozen oysters with theirliquor, make 
them quite hot, andadd to them five or six 
hard eggs cut in slices, let the whole 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, and fill 
the oyster-skells with this; cover each 
with raspings, and colour them in the 
oven or with a salamander. 

Oysters @ l’Espagnole.—Put a few 
chopped oysters, some parsley, a clove of 
garlic, a little pepper, and some butter 
on a dish, set it on the fire to forma 
gratin; then lay oysters (blanched in 
their own liquor) on this, with a sauce 
composed of cullis, mushrooms, an 
capers chopped small, a bit of butter and 
a pounded anchovy; cover the whole 
with bread-crumbs; keep the dish over 
the fire, with fire on the top, till done. 
Serve with Spanish sauce, 

Oysters, fo Feed. — Put them into 
water, and thoroughly wash them with a 
birch besom until they are perfectly 
clean; then lay the bottom shell down- 
wards into a pan, sprinkle them with 





r 
4 
? 


“ 
= 


‘Sharer gee Be! 





OYs 


flowr or oatmeal, and cover with water. 

Continue the same daily, and they will 

a The water should be tolerably 
t § 


e-« Oysters Forced in Shells.—Scald the 
Oysters in their own liquor, chop them ; 
add parsley and anchovy chopped,crumbs 
of bread, lemon-peel grated, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, a little cream, yolk of egg, 
a piece of butter, and some oysters, 
whole; fill some scollop-shells, strew 
ever a few bread-crumbs; brown them 
in a Dutch oven. 

Oysters, Fricassee of.*—Blanch the 
_ oysters in their own liquor, drain and 
fricassee them in some rich broth in the 
same manner as chickens: thicken the 
sauce with yolks of eggs. 

Oysters, Fried. —Beat up the yolks 

of eggs with flour, salt,and nutmeg, dip 
your oysters in this, and fry thema light 
brown 5 they are a nice garnish for cod, 
and calf?s head hashed, &c. 
: Oysrer Fritters.*—Having blanched 
the oysters in their own liquor, soak 
them for some time in vinegar and water 
with salt, shred parsley, and small white 
onions, sliced, after which, dry them 
well, dip each in batter, and fry them. 

Oysters au grus.*—Scald some oy- 
sters in boiling water; then drain and 
put them into some good stock, and their 
own liquor; set them on the fire, and 
when done, put them in silver moulds, 
cover them with a farce composed of 
morels and fat livers, minced very small, 
and mixed with sweet herbs; strew rasp- 
ings over, and colour them with the sala- 
mander. 

Oyster Ketchup.—Take some fine 

fresh Milton oysters ; wash them in their 
ewn liquor, then pound them ina mar- 
ble mortar, and to a pint of oysters 
add a pint of sherry; boil them up, and 
add an ounce of salt, two drachms of 
pounded mace, and one drachm of Cay- 
enne; let it just boil up again, skim it, 
and rub it through a sieve; when cold, 
put it into bottles and cork it well, and 
seal it down. It is best to pound the 
spices and salt in the mortar with the 
oysters. 
- Oyster Loaves.—Open your oysters, 
and save the liquor; wash them in it, 
then strain it through a sieve, and puta 
small quantity of it into a tosser, witha 
bit of butter and flour, some white pep- 
per, a very little nutmeg, and a little 
cream. Stew them, then cut them into 
dice; put them into rolls sold for this 
purpose. 

Oysters, Minced.*—Take half a hun- 
dred oysters, put them into warm water, 
and when they are just ready to boil, 
shift them into cold; then drain them, 


( 373 ) 


OYS 


and take the tender part only, and mince 
it fine. You will increase the size of 
your dish, and give a better flavour, if 
you mix the flesh of a carp with the 
oysters. Next puta piece of butter, 
shred parsley, green onions, and mush- 
rooms into a stewpan, and shake the 
whole over the fire ; add some flour, and 
moisten with half a pint of white wine 
and the same quantity of soup maigre}; 
then putin the minced oysters, and let 
them stew till the sauce is consumed ; 
season according to taste, and when 
ready to serve, add the yolks of three 
eggs beaten up with some cream. 
Oysters, au Naturel.*—Open six do- 


zen oysters, take two duzen of the largest, 


lay-them on a dish in their shells, into 
each of which put two small oysters with 
their liquor ; sprinkle them with pepper 
and shred parsley, and serve them. 
Oyster Patties. — Take some small 


| patty-pans and line them with a fine puff 


paste, cover them with paste, putting 
a bit of bread into each; and against 
they are baked, have ready the following 
to putin the place of the bread:—Take 
some oysters, beard them and cut the 
other parts into small pieces, put-them 
into a tosser witha very little grated nut- 
meg, the smallest quantity of white pep- 
per and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut 
as stall as possible, a little cream, and 
a little of thesoyster liquor; simmer it & 
few minutes befere putting it into the 
patties. 

Oyster Patties. — Take six large 
oysters, and a fine silver eel, pick the 
meat from the bones, beat it ina marb'e 
mortar, with some pepper, salt, cleves, 
and just sufficient mountain wine to 
soften it; have ready some good pufti- 
paste, take one of the oysters, wrap it in 
this forcemeat, and put to it a bit of but- 
ter; close the pattiesand bakethem. . 

Oyster Patties, or Small Pie.—Open 
your oysters, and as: you open them, 
separate them from the liquor, which 
must be strained; beard the oysters, and 
then parboil them; parboil some sweet- 
breads, cut them in slices, lay them and 
the oysters in layers, and season very 
mo¢erately with salt, pepper, and mace ; 
then add half ateacupful of liquor, and half 
a teacupful of gravy ; bake in aslow oven, 
and before you serve, puta teacupful cf 
cream, alittle more oyster-liquor, anda 
cupful of white gravy, all warmed, but 
not boiled. If for patties, the oysters must 
be cut into small dice, gently stewed and 
seasoned as above, and put into the paste 
when ready for table. 

Oyster Petits Pdlés.*—Prepare your 
timbales in the usual way ; boil the oysters 


in ae own liquor, when done, beard, 


OYs 


and if large, cut them in half; put them 
into a béchamel, or if you have none, put 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a 
teaspoonful of flour, and a little whole 
pepper, into a saucepan}; stir them to- 
gether over the fire, then add the liquor, 
still stirring, and in a little while, put in 
the oysters; thicken with the whites of 
two or three eggs, make it quite hot, but 
donot let it boil; put this preparation 
into the petits pdtés, and serve them. 

- Oyster Patties a la Francaise.*—Stew 
your oysters in their own liquor, beard, 
and cut them into dice, also cut some 
mushrooms into dice, and fry them in a 
little butter and flour; add some of the 


oyster liquor, one or two spoonsful of | 
the inside of a loin of mutton clean from 


consommé, a ladleful of cream; when re- 
duced, add a small 
season with salt and cayenne pepper ; 
throw in the oysters, have the patties 
ready, and in a minute or two fill them 
with the above. 

Oysters Pickled.— Procure some of 
the largest sort of oysters, and wash four 
dozen in their own liquor, wipe them dry, 
strain.the liquor off, add to it a dessert- 
mt ge of pepper, two blades of mace, 
three tablespoonsful of white wine, and 
four of vinegar,and if the liquor is not 
very salt, you may putone tablespoonful 
of salt; simmer the oysters for a few 
minutes in the liquor, then put them into 
small jars, and boil up the pickle, skim it, 
and when cold, pour it over the oysters ; 
keep them closely covered. 

OystTeR Sauce.—In opening the oys- 
ters save the liquor, and boil it with the 
beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-pee) ; 
in the meantime throw the oysters into 
cold water, and drain it off, strain the 
liquor, and put it into a saucepan. with 
the oysters just drained from the ‘cold 


water, with a sufficient quantity of but-- 


ter, mixed with as much milk as will 
make enough sauce; but first rub a 
little flour with it; set them over the fire, 
and stir all the time, and when the butter 
has boiled a few times, take them off, and 
keep the saucepan close to the fire, but 
not upon it; for if done too much, the 
oysters will become hard; add asqueeze 
oflemon-juice, and serve. A little is a 
great improvement. 

Oyster Sauce for. Entrées.— Blanch 
the oysters in their own liquor; then 
make a white rowx, to which add a few 
sinall onions, mushrooms, parsley, and 
scallions; moisten with some of the oys- 
ter liquor, and a ladleful or two of con- 


sommé, set it on a brisk fire, and when } 


reduced, add a pint of cream, season it; 
let the sauce be tolerably thick, strain it 
through a silk sieve, put in the oysters, 
and use it with those articles where it is 


( 374 ) 


vantity of butter, | 


OYS 


required, such as fowl, turkey, chicken, 
&c. If served with fish, essence of an- 
chovies must be added ‘to the above in- 
gredients, : 


Oyster Sauce for Beef Steaks.— — 


Blanch a pint of oysters, and preserve 
their liquor ; then wash and beard them, 
and put their liquor intoa stewpan, with 
India soy and ketchup, a small quantity 
of each, a: gill of cullis, ‘a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter; set them over a 
fire, and when they nearly boil, thicken 
with flour and water ; season according to 
taste, with a little cayenne-pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice ; strain it to the oysters 
and stew them gently five minutes. 

OysTeR Sausages.—Take the lean of 


the skin and strings, the same of the kid- 
ney-suet, and double the quantity of 
oysters, bearded, and wiped dry; chop 
all together very small, and season them 
with pepper and salt; then roll them up 
in flour, the size of sausages, and fry them 
in butter. ,; 

Oysters Scalloped.— Put them into 


 scallop-shells, strew over them bread- 
crumbs, with a little hit of butter; then 


put in more oysters, bread crumbs, and 
a bit more butter at the top; set them in 
a Dutch oven, and let them do ofa nice 
brown. : 
Oysters on Skewers.— Puta bit of 


butter into a stewpan, then put in some 


large oysters, and some mushrooms, with 
pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, 
and sweet herbs chopped, and a shake of 
flour ; stir these about for half a minute, 
then put the oysters on silver skewers, 
with a mushroom between each; ro!l 
them in crumbs of bread; broil them ; 
put a little good gravy into the stew- 
pan, thicken it, and add a little lemon- 
juice; serve the oysters on the skewers 
in a dish with the sauce. 
_ Oysrer Soup.—Take some fish stock, 
according to the quantity of soup you 
intend making; then take two quarts of 
oysters, beard them, and beat the hard 
part of them in a mortar, with the yolks 
of ten hard eggs, and add this to the 
stock; simmer it all for half an» hour, 
then strain it off, and put the rest of the 
oysters into the soup; simmer for five’ 
minutes; have ready the yolks of six 
raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to 
the soup ; stir it all well one way, on the 
side of the fire, till itis thick and smooth, 
taking care not to let it boil; serve all 
together. ; + Bae) 
OystER Mouth Soup.—Make a rick 
mutton broth, with two large onions, 


three blades of mace, and black pepper >. 


strain it, and pour iton a hundred and 


fifty oysters, previously bearded, and a: 





RO ee ne ne ge ere ec 


» 
+ ee 


tt a 








PAN 


Bit of butter, rolled. in flour ; let it sim- 
mer gently a quarter of an hour, and 
then serve. ry ys 

_ Oysters Stewed.—Open, and take the 
liquor from them, then cleanse them 
from the grit; strain the liquor, and add 
the oysters with a bit of mace and lemon- 
peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer 
them very gently, add alittle cream, and 
a bit of butter mixed with flour; serve 
with toasted sippets round the dish. 

Oysters en Surtout:—Scald the oysters 
in their.own liquor, drain, and give them 
a few turns over the fire, in a little but- 
ter, shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and 
afew yolks of eggs; then chop up the 
oysters, and mix them with bread-crumbs 
soaked in cream, shalots, mushrooms, 
parsley (all shred small) yolks of eggs, 
pepper and salt; fill some scallops with 
this farce, cover them with bread-crumbs 
and grated Parmesan cheese, put them 
into the oven for a quarter of an hour. 

Oyster Toast.*—Take one dozen of 

large oysters, and two anchovies, and 
chop them together, put in a bit of but- 
ter, and some oyster liquor, and let them 
stew gently till the butter is melted; 
then cut some slices from a roll, and fry 
them in butter of a nice brown, but not 
hard; lay the oyster on the fried bread, 
and serve. 


P. 


PANADA.*—Boil some pieces of stale 
bread in a sufficient quantity of cold 
water to cover them, with a little cinna- 
mon, lemon-peel, and carraways ; when 
the bread is quite soft, press out all the 


water, and beat up the bread witha small | 


piece of butter, a little milk, and sugar 
to the taste; a little spice may be 
added. 

Panwapa.—Set alittle water on the fire 
with a glass of white wine, some sugar, 


a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel;_ 


meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : 
the moment the water boils up, put in 
the bread-crumbs (without taking it off 
the fire), and let it boil as fast as it can. 
When of a proper consistence, that is, 
when just of a sufficient thickness to 
drink, take it off the fire. 
Panapa for Farces, &c.*¥ —Put the 
crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, 
with a little water, two ounces of butter, 
salt and pepper; set it on the fire, and 
let it simmer for an hour 5 then add two 
or three eggs, which stir in whilst on the 
fire, taking care that it does not boil; 
serve it hot. 
PANCAKES.*—Make a good, batter 
in the usual way with eggs, milk and 
flour; pour this into a pan, so that it lays 


(375) 


PAN 


very thin; let your lard, or whatever else 


you fry them in, be quite. hot. When 
one side is done, toss it up lightly toturn 
it. Serve with lemon or Seville orange- 
juice, and sugar. iy ng 

PANCAKES @ la Francaise. — Put 
nearly a quarter of a pound of butter 
into a basin or stewpan, with a table 
spoenful of pounded ratafia, a thin rind of 
a.lemon, and two ounces of sugar pound- 
ed; then mix in one at a time, three 
whole eggs, and the yolks of three; when 
thoroughly mixed, put in a little. milk, 
half a pint of cream, with a little orange- 
flower water, beat your. batter well, and 
let it be just the thickness of good cream; 
when you fry the pancakes, make them 
very thin, use good clarified butter, which 
put into your: pan, and. pour it off again, 
taking care that none remains at the bot- 
tom of the pan, as. it would. make the 
pancakes greasy ; when you have finished 
frying, leave a table-spoonful of the bat- 
ter in the stewpan, to which add a little 
pounded ratafia, sugar, orange-flower, 
and the yolk of an egg, which mix up 
with the cream ; set it on the fire, and 
when it boils, put itin a boat, for sauce 
to the pancakes. ! 

PancakEs @ 1’ Italienne.—Make your 
pancakes the same as pancakes @ lu Fran- 
eaise, and when fried, lay them open on 
a clean dresser, spread them over with 
an Italienne cream, roll them up, and 
lay them in order on your dish; be parti- 
cular to put the brown side outwards. 

PANNEQUETS Gilacés.*—Put into a 
pan, two ounces of sifted flour, four of pow- 
der-sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, 
and aspoonful of dried orange-flowers; 
break up all these articles, and mix with 
them the yolks of ten eggs, four large 
glasses of double cream, and a pinch of 
salt. Wash the bottom of a frying-pan 
lightly with some warm clarified butter, 


then put in it aspoonful of the above pre- 


paration, spread it over the pan, to make 
the paste as thin as possible; when the pan- 
neguet becomes lightly coloured, turn it 
over carefully,and do the other side; then 
put iton a tin-plate, spread a little apri- 
cot marmalade over, and having strewed 
crushed macaroons on that, roll up the 
panneguet till about an inch in diameter ; 
in the meantime put a second spoonful of 
your preparauan into the pan, and pro- 
ceed in the above manner, garnishing one 
panneguet whilst another is cooking; 
taking care, however, to set the pan over 
a gentle fire. When all are done, cut 
the pannequets three inches in length, 
glaze, and dish them en couronne. 
Panneguets @ la Royale. * — Prepare 
your panneguets the same as pannequets 
Elects, ae them with chocolate créme 


PAR 


pitissiére, instead of apricot marmalade. 
Make the last pannequet much larger 
than the rest, and do not roll it, but when 
the others are dished en couronne, place 
the reserved panneguet over them (cut- 
ting out the middle); being very thin, it 
takes the form of the couronne, and wash 
its surface with the white of an egg, 
whipped firm, and mixed with two spoons- 
ful of powder-sugar, then strew over 
some crushed sugar, put it into a gentle 
oven, and make of a nice colour. Any 
other cream patissiére is equally good. 
The pannequets may also be made thus: 
when taken out of the pan, place them 
. on a layer of paste, about six inches in 
diameter, put on each pannequet some 
“apricot marmalade, with crushed maca- 
roons strewed over, and when all are 
done, meringuez the upper one. 
~ Or, as follows: put six of these panne- 
quets one on another, then with a paste- 
cutter of two inches and a half diameter, 
cut them out, dip them in beaten eggs, 
and afterwards in bread-crumbs ; repeat 
this operation, and then having fried 
them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve 


them. | 

PARFAIT Amour.*—Take four very 
fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, 
and infuse them with half an ounce of 
fine cinnamon, and four ounces of cori- 
ander, in three gallons of strong brandy, 
and a quart of water, for a week or ten 
days, when distil it in the bazn marie ; 
this quantity of brandy, if good, will 
yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. 
Dissolve three pounds and a half of 
sugar in seven pints of river water, 
colour it with cdbhiinedl; then add it to 
the spirit, filter, and bottle it. 

Parrair Amour, Fromage Bavarois.* 
—Pare the rinds of two lemons, and a 
small cedrat as thin as possible, infuse 
them with six bruised cloves, and halfa 
pound of powder-sugar in two glasses of, 
boiling milk; in an hour’s time strain it 
off, and add to it six drachms of isinglass, 
and a littleinfusion of cochineal, to make 
the fromage of a rose-colours; set it, as 
usual, on ice, mix the cream with it as 
soon as it begins to thicken, and finish as 
directed. (See Fromage Bavarois.) 

Parrait Amour, Transparent Jelly of.* 
—Pare the rind of two lemons, and a ce- 
drat, as thin as possible, and infuse it 
with half a dozen eloves (bruised) in a 
boiling syrup, made with twelve drachms 
of sugar 5 adda little cochineal to make it 
of a delicate rose-colour. When cold, 
‘mix with the infusion half a glass of 
kirschenwasser, filter, and having put 
the ounce of isinglass to it, finish as di- 
rected. (See Clear Fruzt Jelly.) 


( 376 ) 


PAR 


Parrait Amour Soufié, Francais of.* 
—Rub upon a pound of lump sugar, the 
zestes of two lemons, and two large ce- 
drats, scraping off the surface as it be- 
comes coloured ; infuse this sugar in nine 
glasses of boiling hot milk, with the ad- 
dition of a dozen cloves, for half an hour 5 
strain the infusion through a napkin, 
mix it with the usual ingredients, and 
finish as directed. (See Sonflé Fran- 


cats. )- 

PARSLEY Fried.—Pick some parsley, 
(but not very fine), wash it well, and put 
it on a sieve to drain; after the fish, cro- 
quettes, &c. are fried, while the fat is 
very hot, put in the parsley ; stir it about 
with a cullender-spoon for a minute; then 
spread it out on a sheet of paper}; this is 
eereeaily used for croquettes, or fried 

8 e 7 

Parstey, Green, Extract of. —Take 
about two handsful of fresh double pars- 
ley, wash and pick it, then put it ina 
mortar, and having pounded it, until you 
can obtain no more moisture, press the 
juice through a silk sieve into a stewpan, 
set it in a bain marie to keep it hot with- 
out boiling. When you find it poached, 
place it on atammy to drain. This green 
1s used for entrées and sauces, as it not 
only colours them, but imparts an agree- 
able flavour. * 

Parstry Pre. — Season a fowl, or a 
few bones of the scrag of veal, lay it 
ina dish; scald acullenderful of picked 
parsley in milk 3 season it, and add it 
to the meat or fowl, with a teacupful of 
any sort of good broth, or meat gravy. 
When it is baked, pour into it a quarter 
of a pint of cream, scalded, with a bit of 
butter the size of a wainut, and a little of 
flour. Shake it round, to mix with the 
gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or 
spinach, may be added to the parsley, 
and scalded before put in. 

Parstey Sauce.—Take 9 handful of 
parsley, and having washed and picked, 
pound it well; put it into a stewpan, with 
some good cullis, set it on the fire, and 
let it simmer a quarter of an hour, then 
strain it; add a bit of butter rolled in 
flour, a /za¢son, and a little lemon-juice. 

ParsLey Sauce, when Parsley leaves 
cannot be obtained.—Tie a little parsley 
seed up in a bit of muslin, and boil it in 
water for ten minutes. Make use of this 
water in melting the butter, and throw 
into it a little boiled spinach minced, to 
have the appearance of parsley. 43 

PARSNIPS Botled.—Let them boil in 
plenty of water, with salt, till tender, 
then serve them on a dish by them- 
selves; or, when boiled, cut them in 


5 ge 


oO eine een Vit 





PAR 


slices, and toss them up in a good bit of 
butter ; they are generally eaten with 
salt fish. ; ; 
Parsnip /Vine.*—To every four pounds 
of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put 
one gallon of water ; boil them till quite 
tender; drain them through a sieve, but 
do not bruise them, as no remedy would 
clear them afterwards; pour the. liquor 
into a tub, and to each gallon add three 
pounds of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce of 
crude tartar; when cooled to the tem- 
perature of seventy-five degrees, put in 
a little new yeast, let it stand four days 
in a warm room, then turn it. The mix- 
ture should, if possible, be fermented in 
a temperature of sixty degrees ; when the 
fermentation has subsided, bung down 
the cask, and let it stand at least twelve 
months before bottling. March and Sep- 
tember are the best seasons for making 
it. It only requires to be kept a few 
years to render itsuperior to all other 
made wines, in the same degree as East 
India Madeira surpasses Cape. 
PARTRIDGES, fa Choose. — When 
they are young the bill is of adark colour, 
and their legs are of a yellowish colour; 
‘and when fresh, the vent is firm, but this 
part will look greenish when stale. ‘The 
plumage on the breast of the hen is light, 
that on the cock is tinged with red. 
Parrripees, @ 1 Allemande.— Take 
two partridges that have hung for some 
time, cut off all the meat, remove all the 
skin, nerves, &c., and pound the rest 
with half a pound of butter, some crumbs 
soaked in boiling cream, and two eggs ; 
season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 
Make the above into balls, about as 
big as marbles; place them on a dish for 
table, pour over them a sauce, composed 
of the bones of the partridges, boiled in 
consommé, thickened with the yolks of 
six eggs, and strained. Set the dish ina 
bain marie till the balls swell, and are 
 gufficiently done. 
© Parrriness, ad 1’ Anglaise.*—Make a 
farce with the livers of three partridges, 
a little butter, and some pepper, with 
which fill your birds, roast them about 
three parts, then put them into a stew- 
pan; raise each joint (but do not divide 
them entirely from the body); put be- 
tween every part a little butter, worked 
up with bread crumbs, shred shalvts, 
parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg ; dilute with a glass of Cham- 
pagne, and two spoonsful of consommeé ; 
stew them till quite done, squeeze over 
the juice of two Seville oranges, add a 
little of their peel grated, and servethem. 
PartrivGes, Boudins of. — Having 
made the boudins of quenelles of par- 
tridges, put them, with a little salt, ito 


(377) 


PAR 


a well buttered stewpan, cover them 
with boiling water; poach, and then 
drain them; when cold, dip them: into 


an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, 


and fry them; drain the boudins the- 
roughly, and serve with an Italienne. 

These doudins may also be broiled, in 
which case they should be dipped in yolks 
of eggs, rolled in bread-crumbs, then im- 
mersed in warmed butter, breadedagain, 
and then broiled slowly. 

Parrrioces, Brotled.*—Take five par- 
tridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip 
them. in. melted butter, and bread them 
twice; a quarter of an hour before din- 
ner broil them. Serve them with a sauce 
ala Diable. 

Partripnees with Cabbages.*—Take as 
many birds as you may require for a dish, 
and dress them as directed for pheasants, 
with cabbages. } 

Pantripers, with. Red Cabbage.— 
Take two red cabbages, and cut them 
in fine shreds, which thoroughly wash, 
and put them to stew, with a good piece 
of butter, and a little pepper and salt; 
if they begin to stick to the bottom of 
the stewpan, put in a small ladleful of 
stock, continuing to add this quantity of 
stock every time they appear dry, till 
done; then mix in two table-spoonsful of 
vinegar, and lay them neatlyon the dish, 
and then upon this lay three partridges 
well stewed. 

Partripees, @ la Cendre.*.— Truss 
as many partridges as you choose, as if 
for roasting; take an equal number of 
sheets of white paper, on each of which 
lay about twenty slices of truffles, and on 
them a partridge; fold over every one 
two more sheets of paper, turning the 
edges up, so that the birds may be en- 
tirely excluded from the air. Bury them 
completely in hot ashes, and in a quar- 
ter of an hour turn and leave them for 
the same space of time; then take them 
from the papers, and serve them with the 
truffles. 

Parrripess, aw Charbon.*—Take five 
young fag ca cut each in half, flat- 
ten and put in the claw, so as to resemble 
the bone of a chop; beat them lightly, 
and season with salt and pepper; dip 
each in melted butter, and roll them in 
minced truffles; about a quarter of an 
hour before dinner-broil them. Serve 
with a demi-glaze, in which is a little 
lemon-juice. £ 

Partripee, Chartreuse of.*—Take a 
middling sized cabbage, cut it in half, and 
blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, 
drain and press out all the water ; when 
cold, tie them up with two partridges, 

roperly trussed and larded; cover the 
prare of a stewpan with thin slices of 


PAR 


bacon, on which place the cabbage, two 
BServelas, six sausages, two carrots, two 
onions, season with pepper and salt; lay 
more slices over, and set it on a gentle 
fire. While it is cooking, cut some tur- 
nips, carrots, and onions, into thin slices, 
as near ofa size as you can, and put 
them with young French beans, or any 
other vegetable you may like, into some 
stock, stirring them constantly over the 
fire till they are done, when drain them. 
‘Take a plain round mould, butter it 
well, and lay round the bottom of it the 
carrots, &c., properly arranged, leaving 


the centre open, into which, put first the’ 


eabbage, and then the partridges’ breasts 
downwards, the servelas, sausages, and 
bacon, so that the mould be entirely 
filled; make it hot in a Jain marie ; be- 
fore it is turned out (which must be done 
with great care), place the mould in a 
slanting direction, that all fat may be 
drained off. 

Partripaes, Cutlets of.*—Take the 
fillets of six partridges, and having re- 
moved the skin, beat them with the 
handle of the knife; then take the pinion- 
bones, scrape and thrust them into the 
ends of the fillets; melt a sufficient 

uantity of butter in a fryingpan, put in 
the fillets, sprinkle them with a little 
salt, and ‘brown them lightly. Having 
drained the fillets, let the butter cool a 
little, and add to it the yolks of two eggs; 
dip your. fillets in this, bread and place 
them on a gridiron over hot ashes; 
colour both sides ; dish them en cou- 
ronne, and serve with a clear reduced 
Sumet, or sauce, @ la Diable. 

ParrrineEs, a la Daube Sicilienne.— 
Your birds being properly trussed, lard 
them with equal portions of bacon, and 
anchovies, rolled in spices, but without 
salt; then put them into a braisingpan, 
with a knuckle of veal, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, two giasses of brandy, a 
sufficient quantity of stock to cover the 
whole, a bundle of sweet herbs, three 
cloves, two of garlic, and two onions; set 
these on a slow fire for five or six hours; 
then take out the birds, put them into a 
tureen, strain the sauce, and pour it over 
them, stirring occasionally: as soon as 
you perceive it begins to form a jelly, 
mix a little butter with it, which will 
give it the appearance of marble. 

PartrinGEs, @ /’ Espagnole.* — Put a 
quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of 

' a lemon, a little pepper, and a slice of 
ham in a stewpan; add the partridges, 
and set them on a slow fire, that they 
may not take colour; in a little while, 

ut to them six ladlesful of espagnole, 
half a bottle of white wine, a bay-leaf, 
parsley, scallions, and a clove; when 
these have simmered three quarters of 


( 378 ) 


PAR 


an hour, take out the birds, lay them in 
a dish, and having cleared away the fat, 
and reduced the sauce to half, strain 1t 
over, andserve. = —- es us 
Partripers, a I Etouffade.* — Take 
three partridges, properly prepared, lard 
them with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, 
pounded herbs; truss, and having tied 
them up, put them into a stewpan on 
sliced bacon, cover them with veal, add 
two carrots, two onions, two cloves, par- 
sley, scallions, salt, thyme, and bay- 
leaf; lay bacon, and a buttered paper 
over the whole ; pour in a glass of white 
wine, the same of stock, and simmer 
them for an hour and a half; then take 
out the birds, drain and untie them; 
put three ladlesful of espagnole, the 
same of fumé of game, reduce it to half, 
and pour it over the partridges. 
Parrripnges (Galantine of) with Truf- 
fles.*—Take all the meat from a small 
leveret; put aside the filets, of which 
make a scallop, weigh the remainder of 
the meat, and mince it with double its 
weight of fat bacon, and.half a pound of 
ham ; when mixed, add a sufficient quan- 
tity of spiced salt, and the yolk of an egg. 
Bone three fine partridges, spread them 
open on a napkin, make them of as equal 
a thickness as you can, by paring away 
the thicker parts, and laying the pieces 
on those which are thinner; season them 
with the spiced salt, put on each a sixth 
part of the farce, spread this all over 
their surface, and lay on it three truffles, 
cut in halves, which makes six pieces 
for every bird ; wrap these pieces each in 
a bit of pork caul, and in the space be- 
tween, place some of the scallop of leve- 
ret ; season, and lay the remainder of the 
farce over. Sew up the partridges in 
their original form, wrap each first in 
slices of bacon, and then in a linen cloth, 
tie them up, and place them in a stew- 
pan lined with bacon; put in the bones 
of the leveret and partridges, four onions, 
four carrots, a bunch of parsley, scalli- 
ons, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, four cloves, 
two calf’s feet, a sufficient quantity of 
consommé to cover the surface of the 
galantine, a glass of dry Madeira, and 
two dessert spoonsful of old brandy; 
cover the whole with a buttered paper ; 
set it offon a brisk fire, and then let it 
simmer gently for two hours. At the 
end of that time take it off; when nearly 
cold, drain it, and when quite so, remove 
the wrappers, trim the birds lightly, and 
glaze them: put them properly ona dish 
and ornament them, and then dish with 
jelly according to your taste. 
Parrringe, Habillé.*—Having trussed 
a partridge, put into the body a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, tie it up in 
bacon, and roast it till about two thirds 





PAR 


done ; in the meantime, make a farce 
with the liver, parsley, shalots, crumb 
of bread, and butter, all pounded toge- 


ther; take up the partridge, raisevall its: 


joints, and place some of the farce under 
each, press the parts down again, tieup the 
bird, and stew it over a slow fire in equal 
quantities of consommé and white wine. 

Partripess, a I’ Italienne. — Tho- 
roughly stew three partridges, with a 
farce, in their crops (or they may be 
boned) and the insides stuffed with plenty 
of good farce, lay them in a dish, and 
with a spoon garnish them with an Jta- 
lienne sauce. 

Partaipces, Loaf.*—Makea purée of 
partridges, adding to it tenor a dozen 
raw eggs, rub it through a coarse sieve ; 
take a plain circular mould, butter it 
well, and fill it with the purée, put it 
into the bain marie, and let it simmer 
for three hours; then turn it out on a 
dish, and pour over a fumet of game. 

ParrripeGes, Manselle of.*— Cut up 
four roasted partridges, put all the best 
parts into a saucepan to keep them hot; 
put the remainder of the birds into a 
mortar, with six shalots, a little parsley, 
pepper and a bay-leaf ; pound them 
well, and then put them into a saucepan, 
add halfa glass of white wine, the same 
of stock, four ladlesful of espagnole, and 
sa little grated nutmeg; reduce these to 
about half, then rub it through a sieve, 
on to the birds, and serve them. 

Paxtriness, @ la Mayonnuise.*—Cut 
up three cold roasted partridges, trim 
the pieces, and put them into a basin 
with sait, pepper, vinegar, a little oil, 
and a minced ravgote ; when they have 
lain a sufficient time in this, drain and 
place them in a dish, taking care to have 
the three breasts uppermost, garnish 
them round with jelly, and pour over a 
mayonnaise ; decorate the top with fil- 
lets of anchovies, gherkin, capers, and 
hard eggs, 

Parntripces, Minced.*—Take the fil- 
lets from eight roasted partridges, mince, 
and put them into a saucepan; makea 
light rowxv, in which put the livers and 
lights of the birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, 
three shalots, and a little sage, give 
them a few turns, and then add two 
large glasses of stock, reduce the sauce to 
half, strain and put it to the mirce, 
stirring till it is thick and smooth ; make 
it hot, but not boiling; serve it over 
fried bread, and garnish your dish, with 
either poached or hard eggs. ‘ 

PartrinGes, d la Monglas.*—Having 
prepared and trussed your partridges, 
-roast, and let them stand till cold; then 
take off the breasts, so that the remain- 
der of the birds may have the form of an 


( 379 ) 


PAR 


oval well; cut the meat off the breasts 
two or three truffles, and a score of small 
mushrooms into dice, mix them together ; 
take six ladlesful of espagnole, the same 
of fumet of game; reduce them to a 
third, and strain them over the mince ; 
heat your partridges in the dain marie ; 
place the birds in a dish, pour the ragoft 
into them, and serve with espagnole tra- 
vaillée. 

PartrinGEs, en Pain.*—Take a nice 
shaped loaf, of about a pound weight ; 
make a hole at one end, through which 
take out all the crumbs, rub the crust 
over with a little butter or lard, and set 
it in the oven for a few minutes to dry: 
fill this with minced partridge (see that 
article), and put the loaf, bottom up- 
wards, into a stewpan ; add two spoons- 
ful of veal blond, with any other garnish 
you please ; Jet it remain on the fire till 
the bread is soft enough to allow a straw 
to penetrate it, then take it out and dish 
it with the sauce round. 

PartrinGe, aux Papillotes.*—Cut a 
good sized partridge completely in half, 
from the neck to the rump; put some 
butter into a pan, and do up the two 
pieces in it over the fire; in about eight 
or ten minutes take them out, cover with 
herbs en papillotes, and let them stand to 
cool ; then take a square piece of paper, 
Jarge enough to hold the half bird, rub it 
over with oil, lay a thin slice of bacon on 
it, then the bird, with the herbs, another 
thin slice of bacon, and fold the paper 
over the whole, and broil them slowly 
on a moderate fire. Serve them witha 
clear gravy. 

Partrriper Pie in a Dish.—Take four 
partridges, pick and singe them; cut off 
their legs at the knee; season with pep- 
per, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and 
mushrooms. Put a veal steak and a slice 
of ham at the bottom of the dish; put in 
the partridges with half a pint of good 
consommé,. Line. the edges of the dish 
with puff-paste, and cover with the same ; 
oh it over with egg, and let it bake for an 

our. 

PartripeGss (Standing Pie of) Chaude- 
Sroid. * — Make about six pounds of 
raised paste, which wrap in a damp 
cloth, and set it aside. Take five par- 
tridges, pick and bone them; weigh the 
meat, and to each pound put a quarter of 
a pound of spiced salt; cutthe meat from 
two wild rabbits, of which take a pound 
and a half, mince this with two pounds 
and a quarter of fat bacon, then put both 
these articles into a mortar, and pound 
them with eight drachms of spiced salt, 
two yolks, one whole egg, a shalot minced 
and blanched, a dessert-spoonful of pars- 
ley, two of mushrooms, two of truffles, 


PAR 


(all well minced); rub this farce through 
a quenelle sieve, and mix it in a pan, with 
a pound of truffles, cut into dice, and a 
table-spoonful of velouté or espugnole. 
Cut a pound of fat.bacon into small dar- 
dons, which roll in four drachms of spiced 
salt, and two spoonsful of parsley, mush- 
rooms, and truffles, all shred small ; 
with some of these lard the partridges 
withinside, so that the lardons may not 
penetrate the skin; and with the re- 
mainder lard a note of veal. 

Having thus prepared your ingre- 
dients, proceed as follows: form three- 
fourths of your paste into a standing 
crust, eight inches in diameter, and eight 
in height, into which put about half the 
farce, spread it smoothly all over the 
bottom, to form a bed four or five inches 
thick; lay open the partridges, strew 
half their proportion of spiced salt, put 
in each a spoonful of the farce, and form 
them into a kind of heart; prick the skins 
in two or three places with the point of 
a knife, and lay them on the pie, fill up 
the interstices with farce, and strew over 
the remaining portion of their spiced salt. 
Weigh the xo¢w of veal, and according to 
its weight, take the spiced salt (four 
drachms to a pound), trim the nozwv as 
round as you can, place it on the par- 
tridges, fill up the space round it with 
farce; strew the seasoning over, and 
cover the whole with a pound of the best 
butter cut in pieces, and so placed as to 
form a kind of dome, and on these lay 
slices of bacon and two bay-leaves. Roll 
out the remainder of the paste for the 
top, making it eleven inches in diameter ; 
moisten the edges of the pie, and lay the 
cover on it, make a hole in the middle; 
dorez and place the pie in a brisk oven 
for about teh minutes, then take it out, 
and tie it in some pasteboard cut for the 
purpose, and replace it for four hours; 
at the end of that time take it out, put a 
piece of paste over the hole, and leave it 
to cool. When perfectly cold, cut off 
the lid carefully, take out the veal, and 
put in its place-a Salmi Chaud-froid of 
partridges ; lay these in order, pour the 
sauce over; replace the lid, and serve it 
on a folded napkin. 

These Chaud-froid pies may be com- 
posed of all kinds of fowl, pheasants, 
woodcocks, leverets, &c., according to 
your taste or convenience. 

Parrrinces Poélés.*— Take the en- 
trails, livers, and gizzards, from three 
partridges (all the same size), through 
the crop very carefully; beat up three 
quarters of a pound of butter, a little 
salt, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and 
pounded aromatics ; fill your partridges 
with this, and truss them like a fowl; 


( 380 ) 


PAR 


then put them in a stewpan on slices of 
bacon, cover them with the same a 

sliced lemon; pour a podlé over, and 
simmer for half an hour; then take them 
out, drain, and serve with a crayfish 
between each; make your sauce with 
espagnole and fumet as usual, 

Partrince Potted.— Let. your par- 
tridges be thoroughly cleaned, then sea- 
son them with mace, allspice, white pep- 
per, and salt in fine powder. Rub every 
part well; then lay them in a BaD, with 
the breast downwards, packing the birds 
as close as possible. Put plenty of but- 
ter over them; then cover the pan with 
a coarse flour-paste, and a paper over 
that, closely down, and then bake. When 
cold, put the birds into pots, and cover 
them with butter. satay 

Partringes (Purée of ).*—This purée 
is made in the same manner as that of 
fowls, substituting an espagnole travazllé 
and fwmet of game for the béchamelle and 
velouté. 

Partrripees ( Quenelles of ).—Take the 
skin and sinews from three young par- 
tridges; mince and pound them well; 
rub it through a sieve, and mix it with 
equal quantities of panada and calf’s 
udder; pound all three together till tho- 
roughly incorporated, then add one yolk 
and two whole eggs; season to your 
taste, and poach them as usual. (See 
Quenelles.) 

PartripGes (Quenelles of) a la Sefton. 
—Make some guenelles with the meat of 
three very young partridges as above 
directed, and set the preparation on ice. 
When perfectly cold, form the boudin; 
poach and serve them with the following 
sauce : mix four spoonsful of bé¢hamelle, 
with three of double cream, two of a 
glaze made of game, add a little salt, 
and a small quantity of cayenne pepper ; 
work these up till quite clear, and then 
pour it over the gwenedles. 

Parrripees to Roast.—Preceed in the 
same manner as in the directions for 
roasting pheasants, 

Partripges (Salmis of ).*—Take four 
roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as 
neatly as possible, and put them intoa 
stewpan; bruise the remnants, put them 
into another saucepan, with six ladlesful 
of espagnole, six shalots, a glass of white 
wine, a little parsley, a bay-leaf, a glass 
of stock, pepper and salt}; set this on a 
brisk fire, and when reduced to half, 
strain it over the partridges; make the 
whole hot, but do not let it boil; dish 
your salmis, dip some fried or toasted 
bread in the sauce, and lay them on the 
top. 

Parrarpess (Salmis of ) de Chasseur.* 
—Cut up two or three roasted partridges, 





PAR 
and put the pieces into a stewpan, with 
three dessert-spoonsful of olive oil, half a 
glass of red wine, a little salt, pepper, 
the juice of a lemon, and some of the 
peel; toss the joints up in this sauce, and 
when sufficiently done, serve them. 

- Parrripess (Salmis of ) Cold.*—Make 
your salmis as usual, but instead of 
straining the sauce over the pieces, put 
it into another saucepan, add to it three 
spoonsful of jelly, reduce, and strain it 
again, and let it cool; when quite cold, 
dip your pieces into it, one at a time, 
and arrange them on a dish, the breasts 
at the top; decorate your dish with jelly, 
andserve. | 

* Parreaiperes (Table) Salmis of.* — If 
you wish to make a salmis at table, cut 
4 your birds, and lay the pieces ina 
silver chafing dish, add to them salt, 
pepper, a glass of white wine, the juice 
of two lemons, a little of the peel grated, 
a few shalots minced, (pounded garlic if 
desired), and some raspings strewed 
over the top; let it simmer about ten 
minutes, and then serve. 

Partripges in a Salmis or Hash.— 
Take a brace of partridges that have 
been well roasted, and very neatly icut off 
the wings, legs, and breasts; put them 
into a stewpan, and put the backbone 
into another stewpan, with a bit of lean 
ham, a small onion, a few stalks of pars- 
ley, a few peppercorns, one clove of gar- 
lic, a glass of sherry, a ladleful of good 
stock, and a ladleful of plain sauce ; let 
the whole boil over a gentle fire to the 
consistence of sauce in general: this 
done, squeeze it through a tammy, to the 
legs and wings which were put into the 
other stewpan; put it to the fire to be 
very hot, then add the juice of half a 
lemon, a Haison of the yolk of one egg, 
and a table-spoonful of cream ; shake the 
whole well together, lay the partridges on 
the dish, and serve it to table. 

ParrripGcE Sauwté.*—Having prepared 
a partridge as for /a Tartare, put a good 
piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay in 
the bird, breast downwards; set itona 
brisk fire, strew salt and pepper over, 
and when it is firm to the touch, turn 
and do. the other side. Serve with a 
reduced espagnole, and half the juice of 
a lemon. 

ParrripcE (Scallops of ).*— Cut the 
large and small fillets of four partridges 
into scallops, sprinkle them with salt, 
and fry them lightly in some butter; 
then having drained them, take out the 
butter, and put into the pan three spoons- 
ful of fumet of game, and two of alle- 
mande; give them a boil, and put the 
scallops into it, with some sliced truffles 
or mushrooms, a small piece of butter, 


( 381 ) 


PAR 


and lemon juice. Dish them with cro- 
quettes of game round, glaze, and serve. 

Partrinaes (Souflé of ).*—-Cut off the 
meat from some cold roasted partridges, 
chop and pound it well with some velowté 
and butter; season it well, add the yolks 
of four or five eggs, and rub the purée 
through a sieve into a basin. Whip the 
whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong 
froth, which mix lightly with the purée ; 
put the whole carefully into a dish, and 
bake it. Lay a paper over the top to 
prevent its burning. Twenty minutes 
are sufficient to do it properly; it should 
be served the moment it is taken out of 
the oven. 

PartTrincE @ la St. Laurent.*—Hav- 
ing picked and otherwise prepared your 
partridges, cut off the claws, and truss 
the legs within the body near the rump, 
(without however making a large hole) 5 
then spread out the birds, and beat them 
on the breasts in order to give them as 
much surface as possible ; sprinkle them 
well with salt and pepper, and lay them 
breast downwards.in a pan, in which is a 
little oil, set it on the fire, and when one 
side is done, turn them; about half.an 
hour before dinner, broil them very 
slowly; take two ladlesfnl of espagnole, 
the juice of a lemon anda half, some of 
the peel, a little salt and pepper; xive 
this one boil, and when the partridges 
are done, serve with this sauce over 


o—. 

ARTRIDGES @ la Sultane.*—Take four 
partridges, frem one of which cut all 
the meat, remove the sinews, &c., and 
pound it with some calf’s udder, mush- 
rooms, and anchovy, add a little can- 
sommé, and stuff the three remaining 
birds with this farce; lard them with 
anchovies and mushrooms placed alter- 
nately; roast them before a slow fire, 
basting them either with conson:mé or 
stock; brown them nicely, sprinkle salt 
ory pounded spice over, and serve them 

ot. 

ParRTRIDGES en Surprise.*¥—-Take three 
very fresh partridges, clean and bone 
them all but the large bone of the leg, 
and Jeave on the claws; lay them open 
ona cloth, season with salt and pep- 
per, and spread over them a thin layer of 
partridge farce-cuite ; fill up_the bodies, 
with a cold saipicon ; roll and sew them 
into their original form, truss the claws 
outwards; put them into a pan witha 
little butter, and brown the breasts; let 
them cool, and then. lard the breasts. 
Break the bones, and put them into a 
Stewpan, with a thin slice of ham, two 
onions, a clove, a carrot, a little mace,a 
well seasoned bouguwet,a glassof Madeira, 
a spoonful of consommé, and some grated 


a da 


PAR 


bacon; put the birds into this, cover 
them with a double paper, buttered ; co- 
ver the saucepan close, put fire on the 
lid, andset them ona brisk fire for half 
an hour; let the breasts be as much 
coloured as if roasted; drain and dish 
them, Serve with fumet of game, or 
their own sauce strained. 

Partripce a la Tartare.*—The par- 
tridge being trussed properly, dip it. into 
melted butter, let it be well covered 
with it; sprinkle salt and pepper over, 
and ro!] itin bread crumbs, then broil it 
very slowly; when done, serve it overa 
remoulade or sauce @ la Tartare, or if 
you like it better, a sauce piquante, or 
clear gravy. 

PartrRipGEs with Trufies, — Prepare 
three or four partridges, with truffles 
in the inside, the same as directed for 
pheasants, only, instead of roasting, stew 
them ina good braize; then, having a 
few truffles well prepared, and nixed in 
good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon; 
and when very hot, pour the whole over 
the partridges, and serve. 

Partripees with Trufles.*— Empty 
three partridges through the breasts 
with great care; put a pound of grated 
bacon into a saucepan; add some mid- 
dling sized truffles in quarters, salt, 
pepper and spices; when they simmer, 
throw in the trimmings of the truffles; 
take it off in about ten minutes, and 
when cold, stuff the partridges with this 
preparation; tie them up as round as 
youcan, and put them into a saucepan 
between slices of bacon; make a poé/é 
without any lemon, pour this over, and 
simmer an hour and a half; then drain, 
untie, and lay them in a dish. Mince 
two trufiles, give thema few turns in a 
little butter; then add three ladlesful of 
espagnole, and three of fumet of game, 
reduce the sauce to half, take off the fat, 
and serve it over the birds. 

’ PartrRIDGES fo Truss.—Partridges are 
done in exactly the same way as phea- 
sants are. trussed. (See Pheasants.) 

Parrripges @ la Villeroi.—Put some 
small onions into a little stock, with a 
bit of butter, salt and pepper, and having 
given them a boil, reduce the sauce, and 
let the onions take colour ; when tolera- 
bly brown, stuff two or three partridges 
(boned) with them, truss them as if whole, 
fry them lightly in a little oil, with pars- 
ley, shalots and mushrooms; then braize 
them slowly for about four or five hours, 
in stock and white wine, with slices of 
bacon and veal; skim and strain the 
sauce, add _a little cullis, reduce, and 
serve it under the partridges. 

PartarpGEs (Fillets of) a la Chingara.* 
—Take the fillets of three partridges, 


( 382) PAS 


and having trimmed, fry them lightly in, 
a little butter; then cover them with a 
piece of buttered paper; take six slices 
of tongue & /’écarlate, cut them te the 
size and shape of the fillets, heat them 
with some stock in a deep dish; mince 
the trimmings of the tongue; then re- 
duce three spoonsful of espagnole and 
the fumet, (made with the remnants. of 
the partridges) to a demi-glaze. Dish 
the fillets en cowronne, with the tongue 
between each, pour.a part of the sauce 
over them; put the mince to the re- 
mainder; mix them well, add to them a 
small piece of butter, and put it into the 
centre of the dish. 
Partridge (Fillets of) & la Monglas,* 
—Take the fillets from six partridges, 
remove the skin, decorate one side with | 
truffles placed in chequers, and lay them 
this side downwards in melted butter, do 
not let them touch, cover them with a 
buttered paper ; take an equal number 
of the small fillets, fry them lightly, and 
when cold cut them into scallops, with as 
many truffles and mushrooms; reduce 
four spoonsful of velouté, and two of 
espagnole, strain it over the scallops, and. 
keep them hot in the bain marze; fry 
the fillets lightly over hot ashes; when 
nearly done, add a small quantity of 
demi-glaze. ~Arrange your fillets round 
a dish alternately with fried bread cut in 
hearts, pour the scallops into the centre, 
glaze and serve. At 
PARTRIDGE (Fillets of ) with Oranges.* — 
— Take the fillets from eight roasted 
partridges (they should be but slightly 
done), place them on a piece of fried 
bread, and pour over them the following 
sauce :—Four ladlesful of espagnole tra- 
vaillé, a little whole pepper, the juice of 
a Seville orange, and some of the peel ; 
give this a boil, and pour it over. 
PASTE.*—Be very particular that 
your slab or paste table, rolling-pin and 
cutters are clean, and freefrom all old 
paste, and be very careful that both the 
flour and butter are extremely good. 
Have a dry sieve always in readiness, in 
or by the flour tub, so as to use none 
without sifting it; for, though it may ap- 
pear pure and fine, bran, or small par- 
ticles of old paste may have fallen into it; 
sifting is, therefore, always necessary, 
Weigh one pound of flour, lay it ina 
circle on the slab: break one egg in the 
centre, put a small quantity of salt, and 
a little bit of butter; mix all these toge- 
ther lightly, add a little water, mix them 
again, then add more water, and so pro- 
ceed until it binds into paste; buttake 
care that you do not make it too stiff, 
nor squeeze it much together, till you 
find there is sufficient water; then work 





PAS 


it well together, and roll it out on the 
slab, but do not roll it too thin; worka 
pound of butter on the slab, spread it 
out to the size of the paste, with a knife 
cut it off altogether, and lay it on the 
paste; then double the ends of the paste 
together, to inclose the butter ; then give 
it oné turn, thus: roll it out till you 
just perceive the butter through the 
paste ; turn the end which is next to you 
half way over, and the other end over that, 
roll it once or twice with the rolling-pin; 
then let it stand, this is called one turn ; 
then, in three minutes time, turn it 


again, and so proceed until you have- 


given it six turns; then roll it out, and 
cut it for petits pdiés, or any shape you 
please; but, observe not to put over 
them too mucli egg, as that will prevent 
their rising ; as soon as they are baked, 
take them off the sheet, lay them on 
paper, and when cold, scrape the bot- 
toms, neatly cut out the insides ready 
for whatever you mean to put into them. 
For baking, see directions for the oven. 

Paste (Croquante).*—Blanch a pound 
of almonds, dry them well in the stove, 
and pound them to a dry paste, adding 
occasionally, white of egg and orange- 
flower, put the paste into a stewpan, and 
set it on a slow fire, putting in the sugar 
a little at a time, Sad narcing constantly. 
When the pasteis sufficiently consistent, 
putitina Heap on the table to cool, and 
then form it into cakes of any shape you 
please. 

Paste Croquante a l Italienne.*—Take 
a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces 
of orange-flowers, the rind of a lemon, a 
pound anda halfof powder-sugar ; blanch 
and pound the almonds, mixing with 
them the orange-flowers and. lemon- 
peel, adding, occasionally, white of egg ; 
in the meantime, clarify the sugar, boil 
it to petit boulé,and then take the pan 
from the fire, throw in the paste, mix 
it in; then replace the pan, stirring till 
the preparation no longer adheres to the 
pan,. when put it into a dish, sprinkled 
well with sugar. As soon as it is cold, 
form it into cakes or ¢ourfes, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. 

Paste (German).*—Take three pounds 
of flour, a pound of butter, half a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of almonds, cut in 
long slices, and half a pound of dried 
currants; make a leaven witha fourth 
part of the flour, in the same manner as 
for a brioche, and put the remainder into 
a pan with the butter, warmed, the sugar 
and almonds; mix them all together, add 
an ounce of salt, a glass of cream, and as 
many eggs as will make your paste rather 
thick, but soft; then put the leaven, 


( 383 ) 


PAS 


stir it in well, pour it into a buttered 
mould, throw a cloth over, and let it 
stand five or six hours in a warm place to 
rise ; at the end of that time, put it into 
a hot oven to bake it. 

Paste @ la Magdeleine.*—Put into a 
stewpan a pound of flour, a pound of 
powder-suyar, half a pound of warmed 
butter, a little orange-flower, and six 
egge, or more if necessary. Mix these 
together well, and then pour the prepa- 
ration into one large or several small 
moulds well buttered ; make them smooth 
at the top, and bake ina gentle oven. 

Paste for Raised Pies. — Take four 
pounds of flour, one pound of butter, and 
a little salt, mix these together, adding 
water, a little at a time, taking care not 
to put too much, as this paste must be 
made as stiff as possible; when thos 
roughly mixed, give it two or three turns, 
roll itand cut it cut to the shape you 
want foryour pie. Sometimes the butter 
is melted in warm water, and so mixed 
with the flour; then it will not require 
so much water, and the paste will stand 
better; but as you work your paste, 
when you find it get too cold, warm ita 
little; the first method of doing it is the 
best, if intended to be eaten. 

Paste (Short) for Tarts.—Take one 
pound of flour, lay it on the slab, and in 
the centre put half a pound of butter, two 
egys, a very little salt, and a little water, 
mix them lightly together, and continue 
adding more water, till you find it bind 3 
mix it on the slab a little, and give it two 
turns, it is then ready for use. 

Paste @ la Turque.*—Pound eight 
ounces of blanched almonds to a fine 
paste, when add a’ pound of fine flour, 
half a pound of butter, three quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, a tea-spoonful 
of saffron in powder; beat these ingre- 
dients together thoroughly, and put in as 
many eggs as will make your paste softj - 
then butter a baking-tin, upon which 
spread the paste of an equal thickness $ 
mark on its surface whatever formed 
cakes you like; bake in a gentle oven, 
and when done, divide it according to 
the marks. Pistachios may be used in- 
stead of almonds. 

PASTILLES.*—To make these arti- 
cles, it is necessary to have a smalf cop- 
per stewpan that will hold about a pint, 
rather deep than wide, with a pointed 
lip on the right side, and a tolerably long 
handle, also two pieces of wood, cne 
about eighteen inches long, and four in 
diameter, called the dozs a tabeller, the 
other about half the length, ene inch in 


‘diameter, and the lower end, pointed so 


that it will exactly fit the lip of the pan ; 


PEA 


this is called the dots & égoutter ; six or 
eight tin plates about the size of a sheet 
of letter-paper. 

For the best pasézlles, take a pound of 
double-refined sugar reduced to an im- 
palpable powder ; sift it through a tammy 
on a sheet of white paper, put four or 
five spoonsful of this sugar into your pan, 
pour on it a little orange-flower water, 
and beat it well with the larger. stick, 


until the preparation is sufficiently thin 


to ran from the stick without being clear; 
if it be so, more sugar must be added. 
Put the pan over a chafing-dish filled 


wiih live coals, and let it stand (stirring 
constantly) till it boils; then take it off 


the chafing-dish, add two more spoons- 
ful of sugar, work it up well, scrape 
away whatever sugar adheres to the 
stick, set it aside, and take the smaller 
stick in your right hand, hold the pan in 
your left (slanting) over one of the tin- 
plates; the sugar will, by these means, 


. flow to the lip, then strike the point of 


the stick into the lip of the pan, which 
action will separate the liquid, so that 
each time the stick strikes the lip a sin- 
gle drop of the preparation will fall on 
the tin; a little practice will be neces- 
sary before this operation can be perform: 
ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, 
&c. is used, replenish the pan and pro- 
ceed as above directed, until you have as 
many pastilles aS you may require. 
When cold and hard, remove them from 
the tins with your hand, and keep them 
in boxes in a dry place. You may, if 
you please, colour the pastilles, taking 
care to perfume them with a correspond- 
ing odour. 

Pasrities, Common.*—T hese are made 
inthe same manner as the best sort, the 
difference consists in the materials, 
(which are a quarter of a pound of powder 
to thrée quarters of a pound of sugar) 
and the perfumes are omitted. 

PASTILLAGES.* — Put two ounces 
of well-washed gum dragon into an 
earthen pan, with as much clear hot 
water as will cover it, lay a sheet of 
paper to keep out the dust, and let it 
stand twenty-four hours; then squeeze 
it through a coarse clothintoa marble 
mortar, and add to it-as much starch 
and sugar (both in powder) as the gum 
water will contain; pound these ingre- 
dients well, and strain them through a 
tammy into a pan which keep covered 
with a damp cloth. This pastillage is 
used to form the ornamental parts of 
pastry and confectionary, such as tem- 
ples, baskets, &c., and may be tinged of 
the requisite shades, by mixing with it 
any of the colouring materials. * 


PEACHES, Charlotte of.* — Take 


( 384 ) 


PEA 


twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut them 
in halves, and scald them in a light sy- 
rup; then drain and cut each half into 
three pieces (lengthwise) of equal thiek- 
ness ; put these into a pan with a quarter 
of a pound of powder-sugar, and half the 
quantity of warm butter ; frythem lightly, 
and having prepared your Charlotte in 
the usual way, pour in the peaches and 
finish it (see Charlotte). When in the 
dish for table, cover it completely with 
the syrup reduced to /a nappe, and serve 
immediately. . 
PeacHes in a Compote.— Cut your 
peaches in half, take out the stones, 
peel them, then set them on the fire ina 
sugar-pan, with a sufficient quantity of 
thick clarified sugar to cover them, and 
let them simmer in this gently till done; 
then take them out in a basin, put in the 
kernels to the sugar, and let it boil until 
tolerably thick; put in the juice of two 


or three lemons, and pour the syrup 


over the peaches; serve them in a deep 
hot dish. 

Prscn Cream.—The peaches must be 
pregared the same as for making jelly, 

utinstead of running it through a sieve, 
rub the whole through a tammy, and 
make use of less isinglass; put it all at 
once in the mould, which must be set in 
ice. 

_ Peacu Fritters,*—Take a dozen small 
ripe peaches, pare and cut them in 
halves, soak them in half a glass of 
brandy, and two spoonsful of sugar, on 
which has been rubbed the rind of a 
lemon; in two hours time take them 
out and dip them, one by one, into some 
good batter, and fry of a nice colour. 
Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to 
caramel, with which glaze the fritters, 
strewing over each, as it is done, some 
gros sucre. 

Nectarine and apricotfritters are mace 
in the same manner. 

Preacu Jelly. — Cut ten or twelve 
peaches in halves, take out the stones 
and peel them; set a pint of smooth cla- 
rified sugar, diluted with water, on the 
fire; when it has boiled and been skim- 
med, put in the peaches, the kernels 
should be broken and put in with them; 
let them boil very gently for ten minutes, 
then take out four or five of the halves, 
and lay them on a plate to be in readi- 
ness for garnishing the jelly; let the 
remainder of the peaches boil for ten 
minutes longer; while they are boiling 
take three lemons, cut off the rind, 
oe the juice through a silk sieve in 
a basin, pass the liquor of the peaches 
into it, and then the isinglass, running 
it through the sieve two or ey times 
in order to mix it well; fill the mould 





‘PEA 


half full of jelly, and when set, put in 
the peaches and a little more jelly, and 
when that is set, fill up the mould. The 
reason why the lemons are peeled before 
they are squeezed for this jelly is, that 
the oil in the rind would 
the flavour of the jelly, than be any uwd- 
dition. 

. Preacu Marmaiade.*—Choose the finest 
peaches, but they must not be too ripe ; 
peel them, take out the stones, and put 
them into a China basin; clarify a suffi- 
cient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit 
to float in the syrup; boil this sugar to 
Hissé ; let it cool a little, then pour it 
ever your fruit, and leave it ; the next day 
drain away the syrup, and boil it twelve 
er fifteen times; then pour it again over 
the fruit; repeat this process every 
twenty-four hours for six days; each 
time adding a little sugar, and boiling 
it longer, until at the last it reaches the 
degree grand perié, then add the fruit, 
and beil them together a few minutes; as 
soon as they have boiled up three or four 
times, take the whole off the fire and put 
it into glass or China jars. During the 
six days that the fruit lays in the syrup, 
take care to place a piece of paper the 
size of the panon the surface of the syrup, 
to prevent the fruit from rising above the 
syrup, and keep it all equaliy moist. 

Plums are done exactly in the same 
way. 

Peacues with Pistachios, Gimblettes 
of.*—Take some pulf-paste, give it four 
turns, and rol! it out into two thin layers, 
each thirteen inches square, one of which 
place on a baking-tin (previously moist- 
ened), spread over this a pot of peach 
marmalade, cover it with the other layer, 
and then cut it with a circular paste- 
cutter of two inches diameter, take out 
the middle with a cutter of one inch 
diameter. Beat up half the white of an 
egg and a quarter of a pound of sifted 
sugar, and wash the Gimdb/et(es over with 
itz in the remaining glaze add the other 
half white of egz, and throw into it a 
quarter of a pound of pistachios; when 
these are completely covered with the 
glaze, stick them on the Gimblettes, en 
eouronne; when baked, replace them in 
the oven to dry a minute or two, and 
serve either hot or cold. 

Peacues 7x a Timbale.—These are 
done the sime as Peaches in a Compote, 
only that a small quantity of isinglass 
should be mixed in to turn them into a 
gentle jrlly ; serve them ina t:mbale. 

Praca Tourte.*—Put a layer of tart 
paste on a flat dish, moisten the edge, 
round which put a band of paste about an 
inch and a half wide; put a piece of but- 
tered paper and a cover of common paste 


( 385 ) 


rather spoil . 


PEA 


on, which prick in several places, dorez 
the band, bake, and glaze it; when 
done, take out the paper and paste, and 
put in their place a compote of peaches ; 
reduce the syrup, and the moment be- 
fore it is sent to table, glaze the fruit with 
lt. 

Peacues, Vol-au-vent of.*—Take tiree 
quarters of a pound of puff-paste (of six 
turns), roll it out into a round piece of 
seven inches in diameter, put this on a 
very thin layer of fine paste; dorez the 
top, and with the point ofa knife mark 
it within a proper distance from the edge, 
about a quarter of an inch deep. Put it 
in a brisk oven, ard when sufficiently 
baked, take out the middle, dry it a mi- 
nute or two, sprinkle it all over with 
powder sugar, and glaze it. Take twelve 
ripe peaches, as near of a size as possi- 
ble, cut them in halves, and boil them 
in a syrup made with six ounces of sugar; 
when done, drain, pare, and place those 
which are least coloured, en couronne, at 
the bottom of the wol-au-vent, arrange the 
remainder over, with the kernels intro- 
duced here and there ; reduce the syrup, 
and just before the dish is sent to table, 
pour it over the fruit. 

PEARS Baked.—Take half a dozen 
fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, and 
take out the cores; put them into a pan 
with a little red wine, a few cloves, half 
a pound. of sugar, and some water. Set 
them in a moderate oven till tender, 
then put them on a slow fire to stew 
gently; add grated lemen-peel, and more -~ 
sugar if necessary, They will be suffe 
ciently red. 

Pears in Brandy.*—Take some beurré 
pears, not too ripe, put them into a sau:e- 
pan with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover them, set them on the fire, and 
let them simmer, but not boil, until the 
pears will yield to the pressure ef your 
finger; then change them into cold 
water; pare them with the greatest care, 
so that not a single spot may remain; 
prick, and put them again on the fire iu 
fresh water and the juice of a lemon; 
let them boil very fast. As soon as the 
pears are soft enough for the head of a 
pin to penetrate them easily, take thena 
out earefully with a skimmer, and lay 
them in cold water. In the mean time, 
having boiled your sugar to Ussé, pour 
the boiling syrup on the pears, (pre- 
viously drained from the water), and 
leave them. The next day drain off the 
syrup, boil it to da nappe, then put in 
the pears, give them a boil also; pro- 
ceed in the same iranner on the third 
day, after which, drain the fruit, and put 
it into bottles. Boil up the syrup a few 
more — let it cool, and then pour en 








PEA 


it some brandy, (three-fourths of the 
quantity of the syrup); run the mixture 
through a bag, put it to the pears, and 
cork the bottles well. 

Prars Candied—are done like apri- 
cots. 

Prars (Compote of).* — Take some 
good sized pears, cut them in halves, 
and put them into boiling water; when 
soft, change them into cold water, ia 
which squeeze a little lemon-juice. Boil 
some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well 
from-the water, and then put them into 
the syrup; boil together until the pears 
are sufficiently done; skim, and place 
them in the compotier. <A little Bur- 


gundy wine and prepared cochineal will 


give the compote a red colour. 

Pears (Compote of) a la Bonne 
Femme.*— Choose your fruit carefully, 
take off the tops, and trim the tails, wash 
and drain them well ; then put them into 
a skillet with sugar, cinnamon, tio or 
three cloves, a little red wine, and some 
water. Set them on a slow fire, taking 
eare to skim them. When sufficiently 
done, they will look wrinkled. 

intp. Red.*—Peel your fruit, and put 
it into a well glazed pipkin, with a glass 
of wine, a little cinnamon, sugary to the 
taste, and a little water; put in also a 


pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, | 


and set iton hot ashes. When done, the 
pears will be ofa fine red colour. 

Pears to compound.*—Take a dozen 
large pears, coddle them ; when tender, 
take them out and lay them in cold 
water, pare and cut them in halves 3 
take out the cores, put them in syrup 
made thus :—Two pounds and a half of 
sugar to three pints of water, a little 
Jemon-peel pared very thin, boiled in 
them, and a little cochineal bruised and 
put into a muslin-bag : cover them, boil 
them quick till they are tenderand of a 
good colour ; when cold, squeeze in the 
juice of two or three lemons. 

Prar Cream.—Take a dozen of jargo- 
nels (or any other mellow pears), peel, 
core, and cut them in quarters, put them 
in the tammy, and mash them well with 
a wooden spoon; then put to thema little 
clarified sugar cold, the juice of three 
lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can be 
without settling ; then rub the whole 
through the tammy, and immediately 
set itin one large or several small moulds, 
with ice round them. 

Pears, Dried.—These are done in the 
game manner as apples. 

Pears Grillés.*—Pvt some fine baking 
pears on a fiercely*heated stove, till the 
peel is well browned, then throw them 
into eold water; clean them thoroughly, 
put them into a skillet with clarified 


( 386 ) 


PEA 


sugar, cinnamon, and a little waters 
when sufficiently tender, place them in 
the compotier. Ld rab tt 

Pear Jce.*—Take any kind of pear 
you may prefer, let them be quite ripe, 
and having pared and cut them into 
pieces, put them into a saucepan with a 
little water, set it on the fire; when the 
fruit is quite soft, rub it through a sieve ; 
to each pound of the pulp put three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, boiled to 
petit lissé, shal the juice of two lemons; © 
mix them well, and freeze in the usual 
manner. (See Ice.) 

Pears, fo Keep.*—Choose the sound- 
est pears, peel, and cut them into quar- 
ters, take out the pips, put the pieces 
into bottles, which place in the bain- 
marie. Ifthe pears are intended for the 
dessert, once boiling is sufficient ; but 
if for cooking, they should boil up five 
or six times. Should the fruit thus bot- 
tled have fallen from the tree instead of 
having been gathered, they will require 
a quarter of an hour’s boiling. 

Pear Marmalude.*—Take six pounds 
of small pears and four pounds of sugar 3 
put the pears into a saucepan with a little 
water, set iton the fire 3; when the fruit 
is soft, take them out, pare, quarter, and 
core them; as you do this, throw each 
piece into cold water, in another sauces 
pan, and when all are done, setthem on 
the fire. As soon as they are sufficiently 
soft, rub them through a sieve, and hav- 
ing in the meantime clarified and boiled 
the sugar to petit issé, pour the syrup to 
the pulp, set it on the fire, and stir them 
together until the marmalade is of the 
proper consistence ; then take it off, put 
it into pots, and when cold, tie them 
down, 

Pears Preserved.* — Take care in 
making this preserve that the fruit be 
not too ripe; they are in a fit state as 
soon as the pips are black. Set the pears 
on the fire in a sufficient quantity of 
water to cover them; take them off 
when quite soft, and throw them into 
cold water; pare them lightly, cut off 
the stalks, prick each with a pin suffi- 
ciently long to reach the core, and put 
them again into cold water, witha hand- 
ful of alum 3 set them on the fire to boil 
until the pears are tender, then take 
them out, and put them into cold water 
for the third time. Clarify and boib 
sume sugar to pelit lissé, put some water . 
to it, and whenit boils, add the pearsy 
cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; 
skim and pour it into. an earthen pan 
and leave it. The next day, drain the 
syrup from the pears, add a little more 
clarified sugar to it, and boil it again to 
petit lissé ; pour it, over the fruit, and 








PEA 


leave it as before ; the next and two suc- 
cessive days, proceed in the same way, 
each time increasing the degree of boil- 
ing, until it reaches grand perlé; then 
add the pears, give the preserve a boil 
(covered), skim and pour it intoa pan, 
and place it in a stove for two days, then 
drain the fruit, and put it by for use. 
Pears Stewed.—Wash and prick some 
large stewing pears, and set them on the 
fire in a large stewing-pan of water to 
seald'; when scalded, take them out, and 
put them on the fire in a pan with a suf- 
cient quantity of thin clarified sugar to 
cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little 
mace, and two or three cloves; let them 
stew gently till they begin to soften and 
look rather red, then put in a bottle of 
port wine, and let them continue stewing 
until perfectly done, and look very rich 
and red; then put them in a basin or 
jar, with the liquor over them}; they will 
a all the better for keeping four or five 
ays. 

Pear Tart.—Pare your fruit carefully, 
cut them into quarters, and take out the 
eores ; if large and green, boil them ina 
little water till soft; simmer them in 
some rich syrup, line a dish with puff- 
paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, 
cover and bake it. 

PEAS, Boiled.—Set a large pan of 
spring water on the fire ; when it boils, put 
in the peas with ahandful of salt, anda 
stalk of mint ; when done, drain them ina 
eullender, and toss them in a stew-pan 
with a good bit of butter, a little salt 
and pepper; if for the second course, be 
eareful that they are the very youngest, 
and omit the pepper. 

Peas @ la Bourgeotse.*¥—Make alight 
white vowx, into which put your peas; 
ina little while moisten them with alittle 
boiling water, then add salt, pepper, four 
onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, 
a@ lettuce chopped small, and reduce 
them; when the peas are sufficiently 
done, put in the yolks of three eggs ; after 
which, take care that it does not boil. 
Serve them quite hot. 

Peas &@ la Bourgeotse.—Cut two or 
three cabbages, lettuces, or heads of en- 
dive into squares, then fry three green 
enions in clarified butter, of a fine brown ; 
the lettuces being well washed and 
drained from the water, put them into 
the pan with the onions, and let them 
stew very gently till done, and then drain 
them on a sieve. Toss them together 
with the peas, and stew them the same 
&s in the direction for peas stewed a la 
Francaise. 

Pras, Cullis of.—~Boil some green 
pease in a little good stock with a bunch 
of parsley, scallions, and savory, rub 


( 387 ) 


gathered peas, and having 
wash, and drain them well. Cut some 


PEA 


them through a sieve into a cullis; if 


you wish it to be very green, add alittle | ~ 
j ‘ } Rpts nea 


spinach essence. 


Maigre Peas Cullis is made u¥thes 


Saine manner, only fish broth is 
stead of the stock. 
Peas au Gras.* —Take some 
she 





ted, 


streaky bacon into dice, which put into 
astewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, 
set these on a gentle fire, and’ in half an 
hour add the peas, shaking the pan 
well; when the latter’ are about three 
parts done, moistén with veal gravy or 
consommé, and fiftish them. Serve with 


fried bread. 

eek to Keep).—Shell and put 
tle of water when it boils; 
‘or three warms. 
@ Paysanne.—Prepare your 
rected, a la Sefton ; wash very 
é cabbage and cos-lettuces, a 
parsley, and a few scallions; 
Bem in pieces, and having drained, 
putftiem to the peas, and stew them 
over a slow fire, stirring frequently to 
prevent their burning; when sufficiently 
done, season with pepper and salt, and 
serve. 

Pras Purée, Potaye of.*—Put about 
three pintsof green peas into cold water, 
add to them a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, which mix well with the peas by 
working them about with your hands, 
then, having drained them in a cullen- 
der, put the peas into a stewpan with a 
little parsley and a few scallions; set 
them on a moderate fire, stirring occa- 
sionally ; in half an hour’s time take 
them out, put them intoa mortar, and 
pound them well; then rub them through 
a sieve, adding a little cold broth to ena- 
ble them to pass through more easily ; 
make your purée very clear, heat it, and 
pour it on the bread about ten minutes 
before you serve it. 

Pras Pudding.*—Take a pint of good 
split peas, and having washed, soak 
them well in warm water; then tie them 
in a cloth, put the pudding into a sauce- 
pan of hot water, and boil it until quite 
soft. When done, beat it up with a little 
butter and salt; serve it with boiled 
pork or beef. 

Peas in a Purée.—Proceed as directed 
for peas-soup, but let the purée be much 
thicker, and adda little more sugar and 
salt; this will serve to garnish a stewed 
leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, 
duck stewed, &c. 

Pras (dry) Purée of.*—Having washed 
your peas thoroughly, put them into a 
saucepan with water, three carrots, three 
sexo cia cloves, two heads of celery, 

















ey, 


» 


PEA 


a quarter of a pound of butter, and salt 
to the taste ; having boiled them till the 
peas are sufficiently done, take out the 
other vegetables, and rub the peas 
through a sieve. The purée should be 
rather thick than otherwise, as it may 
be made thinner by the potage which 
you add to it. 

Peas (Ragodt of) with Bacon.* — 
Take half a pound of bacon, cut it into 

iecer, which put into a stewpan with a 
ittle butter; put a pint of young peas 
into a basin, stir some butter into them, 
and pour on a little water; leave the 
peas in this for about seven or eight 
minutes, then drain and set them on the 
fire ; ina few minutes, add a little broth, 
then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and 
pepper ; stew the whole over a gentle 
fire; skim it well, and if too salt, adda 
little sugar. 

Peas ad la Sefton.—Take three pints 
of young fresh-gatbered peas, and put 
them into a pan with two ounces of but- 
ter and plenty of cold water, work them 
well with the butter till they adhere to- 
gether, and having drained them tho- 
roughly in a cullender, stew them gently 
with a bunch of parsley and scallions ; 
as soon as they become green, sprinkle 
a little flour over, give them a stir, pour 
a sufficient quantity of boiling water to 
cover them, and reduce it quickly over a 
large fire; dissolve a simall lump of 
sugar, and merely a taste of salt in a 
little water; add this to the peas, and 
while they are still boiling, put in about 
two ounces of butter worked up witha 
spoonful of flour. 

Peas Soup.* —Take the liquor in 
which a joint of salt-beef, pork, or leg 
of mutton has been boiled; put it into 
a large saucepan, with beef-bones, a 
knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, 
a little celery-seed tied in a bag, a pint 
of split peas ; let the whole simmer by 
the side of the fire four or five hours. 
When sufficiently done, rub the peas 
through a cullender, strain the liquor 
over them, season it to your taste, and 
serve with mint dried, and rubbed fine, 
toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and 
cayenne pepper. 

Peas (Green) Soup.—Take a pint of 
old peas, put them into a saucepan with 
an equal quantity of water, an ounce of 
butter, an onion or two, some lettuce- 
leaves, pepper and salt; cover the 
saucepan close, and let them simmer 
till the peas are quite soft; then rub 
them through a cullender, and to the 
liquor add more water, the remainder of 
the lettuces, a pint of young peas, a 
little chopped spinach, mint, salt, pep- 
per, some more butter, and a table 


( 388 ) 


PER 


spoonful of flour; boil these also till the 
peas can be rubbed through a cullender; 
then mix them with the old peas, strain. 
the liquor over, and serve. i ; 

Peas (Green) to Stew. —Put into a 
stewpan a quart of peas, a lettuce and 
an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, 
some pepper, salt, and no more water 
than hangs round the lettuce from wash- 


‘ing. Stew them very gently for two 


hours. When to be served, beat up an 
egg, and stir it into them; or a bit of 
flour and butter. : Ae Hikes 
Pras Stewed a la Frangaise. — Boil 
some very young peas in plenty of. 
spring water with a little salt in it} 
when done, drain off the water, and put 
them to stew with a bitof butter, a green 
orion, and a small buneh of parsley, a 
little sugar and salt; let these stew to- 
gether for a few minutes, then add two 
or three spoonsful of consommé ; when 
they appear dry, add some cream sauce, 
but take great care not to put too much, 
if intended for the second course, as 
there is not so much required as for an 
entrée in the first course; before serving, 
mix in a Kadson of. the yolk of one egg, 
with a little cream. . 
PEPPER Cakes.—Boil a quarter of 
an ounce of whole white pepper in a gill 
of sack, for a quarter of an hour; then 
strain, and mix the liquor with as much 
fine sugar as will make a paste; drop 
this on atin plate,andletthemdry. 
Pepper Pot.*—Take as much spinach 
as will filla good sized dish, put it ina 
saucepan without any water, set it on 
the fire, and let it boil; then drain off 
all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, 
and return it to the saucepan, with the 
water just drained from it, more water, 
onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce 
or head of endive cut small, the bones 
of any cold roast meat, if you have them, 
and half a pound of bacen; put the whole 
on the fire, and when it has boiled for 
about an hour, put in a few suet 


dumplings ; leave it twenty or thirty - 


minutes longer; season it well with 
cayenne, and serve. 


- Pepper Sauce.—Take an onion or two, » 


a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a 
parsley root (all cut in slices), two cloves 
of garlic, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a 
little butter ; set them on the fire, and 
when they take colour, add some cullis 
half a glaes of vinegar and broth, salt and 
coarse pepper; reduce to a proper cons 
sistence, skim and strain it. 
PERCH.—Perch are nct esteemed so 
much as carp and tench; but they area 
most delicate fish; their freshness may 
be ascertained by the liveliness of their 
eyes, and the stiffness of their fins. Perch 


Ss eS ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 








PER 


do not preserve so good a flavour when 


stewed, as when dressed in any other 
Way. 

_ Peron au Beurre. * — Having tho- 
roughly cleaned and taken out the gills, 
put your perch into a stewpan, with 
a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, pars- 
ley, salt, and a little water. When done, 
drain them ; take off the scales and skins 
carefully; place the fins at equal dis- 
tances in the bodies, and serve them 
covered with a butter sauce. 

Pencn Botled.— Put them into cold 
water, and let them boil carefully; serve 
with melted butter and soy. 

’ Perca Botled.—Set the perchonin cold 

spring water, with plenty of salt ; as soon 
as.they boil, skim. them well, and place 
them aside to simmer till done; and 
serve them either with anchovy sauce, 
or with melted butter and soy. 

Peres in Court Boutllon.*— Having 
cleaned your perch and rejected the gills, 
wash them well in vinegar, and then put 
them into a saucepan, with some butter, 
sweet herbs, small white onions, and 
white wine; stew them till done; drain, 
and serve thein dry, on a napkin folded, 
in a dish. 

Peracen (Fillets of) Fried in a Mari- 
nade.—Scale and cut off the fillets of six 
perch without any bone, and let them 
soak for ten hours in a marinade, half 
vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a 
bay-leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a 
clove of garlic; a few minutes before you 
wish to serve them, take them out of the 
marinade, shake them in flour, and fry 
them quick in clear lard; when free 
from the fat, place them on a dish, with 
gond strong butter sauce. under them, 
into which put a table-spoonful of tar- 
ragon vinegar; when very hot, pour it 
between the fish. 

Percn a la Gordiane.*—Scale, empty, 
and clean as many perch as you may 
require, and soak them for five minutes 
in melted butter, with sweet herbs shred, 
salt, pepper, and pounded coriander ; 
put the fish (with this marinade) into a 
jar, cover it very close, and set it in hot 
ashes; when you’ think the perch are 
about half done, add some good veal 
gravy, cover it as closely as before, and 
let it remain till the fish are done. 

Preaca @ la Hollundaise.— Thoroughly 
clean and wash the perch, then set them 
on the fire in half milk, half water, some 
salt, and a bit of butter ; simmer them 
gently over a slow fire, and when done, 
drain off the liquor, lay them on a dish, 
with a sauce @ fa Hollandaise over them. 

Percn a la Polonaise.*—Clean three 
perch well, take out the gills and roes, 
in the place of which put carp roes; tie 


( 389 ) 


PER 


up their heads, and stew them ina light 
salt and water, with parsley roots and 
leaves, bay-leaf, and lemon-peel. When 
done, take off the scales and skins; dip 
the fish in a Ste. Ménéhould sauce, and 
bread them; beat up the yolks of three 
eggs in a little melted butter, salt and 


| pepper; dip the perch in this, and bread 


them a.second time; broil them slowly, 
and serve with a tomata sauce, 

Prrcw au Restaurant.* — Scale and 
clean your fish, and if large, soak them 
in hot brine, but if they are small, that is 
not necessary. Puta piece of butter into 
astewpan, set it on the fire, and keep 
stirring till it melts, then add some veal 
gravy or consommé, salt, pepper, vine- 
gar, and your fish; stew gently till suffi- 
ciently done. Serve with the sauce 
poured over. 

Percu @ la Vasse Fiche.*—Take three 
or four perch, gut and clean them well; 
take out the gills and roes (if they have 
any), and put some carp roes in their 
place, tying up the heads; put them into 
water slightly salted, with sliced carrots, 
parsley roots and leaves ; give them one 
boil only; then take out the fish, and 
mix with the sauce some well reduced 
velouté ; put the perch in again, give 
them another boil, and dish them, with 
the sauce poured over. 

Perecu aw Water Suchet.*—Cut some 
parsley roots into small pieces, which 
put in a sufficient quantity of water to 
boil what perch you may have; add a 
bunch of parsley and some salt; when the 
roots are quite dene, put in the perch 
(well scaled and oe for ten minutes. 
In the mean time scald some parsley 


leaves in salt and water; then drain the 


perch, place them in a tureen, with the 
parsley roots and leaves ; strain the 
liquor over it, and serve. Slices of bread 
and butter should be sent to table to eat 
with it. 

Percn with Wine.*— Having scaled 
and taken out-the gills, put the perch 
into a stewpan, with equal quantities of 
stock and white wine, a bay-leaf, a clove 
of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, 
two cloves, and some salt. When done, 
take out the fish, strain off the liquor, 


the dregs of which mix with some butter 


and a little flour ; beat these up, set them 
on the fire, stirring till quite done, add- 
ing pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of 
anchovy butter. Drain the perch well, 


-and dish them with the above sauce. 


PERLINGO.*—Take a pound and a 
half of sifted flour, and having placed it on 
your slab, makea hole in the middle of 


it, into which put three quarters of a 


pound of brown sugar, halfa pound of 


‘fresh butter, the rind of two lemons, 
2L3 


PER 


grated, and ten eggs; knead all these in- 
gredients together well, until you have a 
pretty firm paste; if it should be too 
thin, add a handful more flour, Then 
cut the paste into small pieces, each of 
which rollin the palms of your hands, 
till they are the length and thickness ef 
your finger; take a round stick (about 
half the diameter of your paste), press 
this down on each of the pieces, so that 
they may be their original thickness on 
one side, and thin on the other; when 
al} are thus pressed, form them into 
little crowns (the flat side inwards, and 
the thin end uppermost), lay them on 
white paper, and bake them in a mode- 
rate oven ; in the meanwhile, make some 
white sugar varnish or icing, and when 
the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip 
them carefully in the varnish, one by 
one; then replace them in the oven, a 
minute or two, to dry. 

PEROGEE Padogees.*—Take a piece 

of beef, mutton or lamb, that is tender, 
the same quantity of beef-suet, shred 
separately very fine, then mix them alto- 
gether, seasoning them with pepper, salt, 
and a little shalot; when seasoned, mix 
it with a little geod broth or gravy} 
make a paste as follows:—Melt two 
ounces of fresh butter in half a pint of 
warm milk; then put in one egg, well 
beaten, adding four to it by degrees, till 
it is very stiff, and no eyes in it; mould 
it well, roll it out very thin, cut it out 
with a very small basin, lay the meat on 
one side, turn the other over as a puff, 
close it with some egg, yolk and white 
beaten together, and fry in good beef- 
dripping. 
. PERRY.— Perry is a pleasant and 
wholeseme liquor, made from the juice 
of pears, by means of fermentation, some- 
whatin the same manner as cyder is 
made from apples. (See Cyder.) 

The best pears for perry, or at least 
the sorts which have been hitherto 
thought the fittest for making this liquor, 
are so excessively tart and harsh, as to 
be totally unfit for any other purpose. 
The Bosbury pear, the Bearland or Bar- 
land pear, are the most esteemed in 
Worcestershire, and the squash pear, as 
it is called, in Gloucestershire ; the liquor 
rade from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet 
remarkably fine, and of a strong body, 
and held in very great estimation. 

In making of perry, the pears should 
be ground and pressed, exactly in the 
same manner as those of apples in the 
making of cyder (see Cyder); but the 
reduced pulp should not be allowed to 
remain any length of time’ without 
being pressed. In Herefordshire, or 
the counties in its vicinity, it has 


( 390 ) 


PER 


never been the practice to blend the 
juices of the different varieties of the 
pear, in order to correct the defects of 
one kind by the opposite properties of 
another, It is, however, thought more 
easy to find the required peaton of sugar 
and astringency, as well as flavour, in 
three or four varieties than in one; 
therefore, it is supposed, a judicious mix- 


ture of fruits affords a prospect of great. 


benefit. ‘3 

In grinding, the pulp and rind of thé 
pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly 
reduced, and though no benefit is said to 
be derived from the reduced pulp re- 
maining some hours unpressed, yet there 
is no doubt but, where all other eircum- 
stances are the same, that portion of 
liquor will, for the most part, be found 
the best, which has remained the longest 
under the power of the mill-stone. 

‘The juicee of the pear and the apple 
are constituted of the same components 
parts, but the proportions are different. 
{In the juice of the pear, the tanning 
principle is predominant, with a less por- 
tion of sugar, mucilage, and tinging mat- 
ter. 

Perry requires pearly the same sort of 
management, during the process of fer- 
mentation, as cyder; but it does not 
afford the same indications, by which the 
proper period of racking it off may be 
ascertained. The thick scum that cole 
lects on the surface of cycer, seldom 
appears on the juice of the pear ; and, 
during the time of the suspension of its 
fermentation, the excessive brightness of 
the former liquor, is rarely seen in the 
latter; but, where the fruit has been re- 
gularly ripe, its produce will generally 
Lecome moderately clear and quiet ina 
few days after it is made, and it should 
then be drawn off from its grosser lees. 
To prevent an exeess of fermentation, 
the same means are used as in making 
cyder, and the liquor is rendered per- 
fectly bright by isinglass.. For this pur- 
pose the isinglass should be reduced to 
small fragments, by pounding in a mor- 
tar, and afterwards being steeped twelve 
or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor, 
sufficient to produce its greatest degree 
of expansion. In this state it must be 
mixed witha few gallons of the liquor, 
and stirred till it is diffused and suspend- 
edinit; and itis then poured into the 
cask, and incorporated with the whole 
by continued agitation for two or three 
hours. This process should be repeated 
till the required degree of brightness is 
obtained, the liquor being each time 
drawn off, on the second or third day, 
from its precipitated lees. About an 
ounce es a half, or two ounces of isins 


a ee 





PET 


glass, are generally put into a cask of a 
hundred and ten gallons, at once; were 
its mode of action purely mechanical, 
there could be no objection to a larger 
quantity; but it has also a chemical 
action on the liquor. It combines with, 
and carries down the tanning principle, 
and hence, during the process of fining, 
the liquor is deprived of a large portion 
of its astringency. This substance is 
most readily diffused, in liquors, by 
boiling ; but, by this it is dissolved, and 
converted into glue, and its organization, 
on which alone its powers of fining de- 
pend, is totally destroyed. 

But, when perry can be made suffi- 
ciently bright without it, it is better not 
to use the isinglass; as the liquor is ren- 
dered extremely agreeable to the eye 
by it, but is thought to become more 
thin and acid by its action. 

In the after-management of perry, the 
method is the same as that of cyder, but 
it does not bear situations, where it is 
exposed to much change of temperature, 
so well, and its future merit cannot be 
so well judged of by its present state. 
In the bottle it almost always retains its 
good qualities, and in that situation it 
is best to be put, if it remains sound and 
perfect, at the conclusion of the first suc- 
ceeding summer. 

The above directiens are, principally, 
according to Mr.-Knight’s rules. 

Perry Vinegar, as made in Holland.* 

_—The pears which fall from the trees, 
are re up, cut into slices, and put 
into casks; water is poured over them, 
and they are left exposed to the sun, and 
yeast is added to hasten the fermenta- 
tion. When the vinegar is made, strain, 
and letit rest some days; after which, 
a deposit is formed; draw off the vinegar 
carefully, and bottle it. 

PERSICA.*—Cut about one hundred 
peach leaves, put them into a wide- 
‘mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of 
the best brandy, cork it close; in three 
weeks strain it off, and put to it an equal 
quantity of capillaire. It is good in cus- 
tards, puddings, and as a liqueur. 

Perirs Pates (Hot).*—Roll out about 
a pound of puff-paste to a proper thick- 
-ness, which cut into pieces, with a plain 
round paste-cutter, two inches in diame- 
ter; place half the number of these 
pieces on a baking-tin (slightly wetted), 
about half an inch apart; moisten each 
of them a little, and having laid a small 
bit of godiveau on every one, cover them 
with the remainder of the paste, press 
the edges together, dorez, and bake 
them in a brisk oven, of a clear brown. 

PETTITOES.—Boil the feet, the liver, 
and the heart, ofa sucking pig, in alittle 


( 391 ) 


PHE 


water, very, gently, then split the feet, 
and cut the meat very small, and simmer 
it with a little of the water till the feet 
are perfectly tender ; thicken witha bit 
of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of 
cream, anda little pepper and salt; give 
it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of 
bread, put the feet on the mince. 

PHEASANTS.—The spurs of a young 
cock pheasant, should be short and 
round; when they are long and sharp, 
the bird isold. A cock pheasant isa fine 
flavoured bird, but the hen is accounted 
the best. When the bird is stale, if the 
vent is rubbed by the finger, the skin 
peels off. The same rules may be ob- 
served for black-cocks. 

PuHEasanT @ l Angoumoise.*—Toss up 
some truffles in a little butter, season 
them to the taste; then take them from 
the fire, and when cold, add to them five 
and twenty or thirty roasted and peeled 
chesnuts ; stuff a pheasant, larded with 
truffles, with these, and then wrap it in 
thin slices of veal or mutton, over which 
lay two rashers of bacon; tie it up, and 
put itin a pan on more bacon; pour a 
sufficient quantity of malaga, or any other 
Spanish wine, to cover it, and setit in the 
oven ; when done, untie it; take off all 
the fat, add some more truffles, and 
thicken the sauce with roasted chesnuts, 
pounded quite dry. 

PHEASANT, Boudin of.*— Take all the 
meat from a coldroasted pheasant (with 
out any of theskin or sinews), and mince 
it very small 3 break the bones to pieces, 
and put them into a stewpan, with a 
small quantity of water; draw out the 
essence Of them over the fire; soak some 
bread in this essence ; boil six onions in 
broth, season them with salt, pepper, 
cloves, nutmeg, a little basil, and pars- 
ley; when done, mince, and mix them 
with the pheasant .and bread; put the 
whole into a mortar,and pound it: dilute 
with cream 3 add the yolks of six eggs, 
and three quarters ofa pound of beef, cut 
into dice, salt and spices ; put the prepa- 
ration into skins, as usual. (See Black 
Puddings.) 

PHEASANT. Boudin ad la Richelieu.*—~ 
Take all the meat of a pheasant, pound, 
and rub it through a guwenelle sieve; in 
the meantime, roast a dozen large po- 
tatoes, pare them very clean, and, having 
pounded themalso, take as much of them 
as you have pheasant, and pound toges 
ther; add an equal portion of butter, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spices 3 
pound the whole, putting in five eggs, 
one at a time ; when all are in, take the 
farce from the mortar, sprinkle the end 
of the table with flour,” lay the furce on 
it,and roll it up in the ferm of thick 


PHE 


sausages ; poach these, and drain them ; 
when cold, bread them, dip them in 
eggs beaten with.a little melted butter 
and salt; broil,and serve them with a 
fumé, made of the remnants. 

- Pueasant with Cabbages.* — Take a 
trussed pheasant, lard the breast and legs 
with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and 
pounded spice; cover it with bacon, line 
a stewpan with bacon also, and put in 
the pheasant, with a moderate sized ser- 
velas, four carrets, four onions, two 
cloves, two bay-leaves, some slices of 
veal, and a pound of streaked. bacon; 
blanch the cabbages, tie them up, that 
they may not lose their shape, and put 
them to the pheasant, with stock and 
pepper; let them simmer for two hours; 
then drain the cabbages, place the phea- 
sant in the centre of a dish, the other 
articles round, and serve with a fumet of 
game. 

Pugasant with Celery. — Prepare a 
pheasant the same as a fowl is prepared 
for boiling; then stew it in any kind of 
good braize tillit is well done; have 
ready six tine heads of celery, cut into 
rounds about the size ofa shilling, blanch 
them for a few: minutes, drain them ona 
siéve, and then put them to stew till 
nearly dry, in good stock; have ready 
gome good brown sauce, with a bit of 
butter mixed in it; put the celery to 
this, add one squeeze of lemon-juice, 
stir it gently, and pour the whole over 


the pheasant, and serve it to table | 


hot. 

. Pueasant (Fillets of ) a la Chevalier.* 
—Take eight fillets, put aside the small 
ones, (which must be fried lightly, to lay 
in the centre of the dish), trim and lard 
the others; put slices of bacon and veal, 
the remainder of the pheasants, two car- 
rots, four onions, two bay-leaves, two 
cloves, into a saucepan ; lay in the fillets 
nicely; pour over them one glass of white 
wine, two of consommé, a little salt, and 
cover the whole with a buttered paper; set 
the pan on the fire, and as soon as it boils, 
lessen the fire beneath, and cover the lid 
with hot coals ; in about an hour take out 
the fillets, drain, and glaze them. Strain 
and reduce the liquor, add three ladies- 
ful of espagnole ; when the sauce is of 
the right consistence, strain it again into 
a dish, and serve the fillets in it, laid on 
fried bread. 

Pueasant, Crogueties of.*—Take the 
white meat from three pheasants (roast- 
ed), remove all the skin and nerves, and 
eut the meat into dice 5 put a ladleful of 
Aechamel into a saucepan, reduce it to 
half, then add to it two ounces of fresh 
butter, which must dissolve in the sauce 
without being put on the fire; strain it 


( 392 ) 


PHE 


over the minced pheasant, season: with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix the whole 
together well, and: when cold, lay it in 
heaps nearly as big'as an egg; give them 
what shape you please, roll them im 
bread-crumbs, after: which soak them a 
minute in eggs, beaten with salt and pep- 
per; bread them a second time, and fry 
the croquettes in the usual way. 
Pueasant, to Dress.—A pheasant may 


be done in almost every manner thata 


fowl is dressed, besides being made into 
petits ndtés, croqguettes, in an aspic jelly, 
or Italian salad. i 

Pueasant, @ la d’Estaing.*—Lard a 
good sized pheasant, give it a few turns 
in some melted butter, then tie slices of 
bacon round, and roast it. In the mean- 
time, take the roes of carp and other 
fish, with which make a matelote ; add to 
it some balls of godéveau, truffles, morels, 
sweet herbs, small onions, veal sweet- 
breads, and any other articles you may 
choose, all dressed in veal gravy ; when 
the pheasant is done, take off the bacon, 
put it into a dish, and pour the above ra- 
gout over it. 

Pueasant, dé l’ Etouffade.*—Y our phea- 
sant being properly prepared and truss- 
ed, rub some bacon with salt, pepper; 
cloves, mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon 3 
lard the breast and legs with this, and tie 
up the bird in slices of bacon, line a 
stewpan with more slices, put the phea- 
sant on them, and pour over some poé/ée, 
and equal quantities of white wine and 
stock ; simmer it for two hours; then 
drain, untie, and serve it over an essence 
of game. 

Paeasant, Farce a@ Ul Espagnole.— 
Make a veal forcemeat, and put part of 
it into the crop of the pheasant (it being 
prepared for stewing), and make the re- 
mainder into long rolls; blaneh and stew 
them in the same manner as directed for 
pigeons, with the same sauce. 

PHEASANTS, 7” Fillets.—Cut out the 
fillets of the breast, the same as from a 
fowl, lay them on a table, and with a 
large knife cut them into three thin 
slices, then lay them carefully in some 
clarified butter. When the whole is done, 
sprinkle a little salt over them ; do them 
for a minute over a quick fire (turning 
them on each side), but be careful that 
they are not brown; drain them from 
the butter, and dish them in the form of 
a star, and pour over them some butter 
sauce, very hot, with half a lemon 
squeezed into it. 

Peasant, en Galantine.*—Choose a 
large pheasant for this purpose; having 
picked it, &c. split it down the back bone, 
and spread it open on a cloth, cover it 
entirely with a game farce; cut some 








PHE 


calf’s udder, tongue @ l’écarlate, and 
truffles, in dardons, roll these well in a 
mixture of salt, pepper, pounded spice, 
and aromatic herbs ; place these /ardons 
at equal distances, and aiternately on 
the furce ; then some fillets of rabbit, 
cover the whole with the farce, and pro- 
ceed thus until the pheasant be filled ; 
then roll it up, form it as near as pos- 
sible in its original shape, lay slices of 
bacon round, and wrap it in a new cloth; 
sew it over, and tie the ends tight; put 
some onions, carrots, two cloves, two 
bay-leaves, yarlic, a quarter of a pound 
of ham, two knuckles of veal, and the 
bones of the pheasant, or any other game; 
place the bird on this, cover it with slices 
of bacon, pour in some stock, and a bottle 
of white wine (there should be a suffi- 
cient quantity of liquid to cover the phea- 
sant) ; put a buttered paper over the 
whole, cover the pan close, and set it on 
a brisk fire, with hot ashes on the lid, 
and leave it for three hours; then re- 
move it from the fire, let it remain ano- 
ther hour in the braisingpan, after which 
take it out, press it lightly to flatten the 
breast as much as possible. Strain the 
liquor, and set it on the fire again ; skim 
it well, and when it is on the point of 
boiling, add a glass of white wine ; skirn 
it again, and reduce it a fourth; beat 
four eggs in some cold water, take the 
jelly from the fire, and put the eggs in, a 
little at a time; stir constantly till the 
whole becomes as white as milk; add 
the juice of two lemons, and set it on the 
side of the stove toclarify ; when reduced 
to about half its original quantity, strain 
it through a napkin, and let it cool; in 
the meantime, unwrap the pheasant, 
clear away all tlie fat, glaze, and having 

a it on a napkin, garnish it with the 
Jelly. 

Preasant ( Galantine of) a la Parisi- 
enne.*—Soak and blanch a fine fat liver, 
cut it in halves, each of which divide into 
four slices ; pound two of these, a par- 
tridge boned, and an equal quantity of 
fat bacon; season the whole highly, add 
the yolks of two eggs, and sweet herbs 
(the latter dressed in a little butter) ; 
when these ingredients are thoroughly 
pounded, rubthe farce througha quenelle 
sieve. ‘Take a plump pheasant that has 
hung some days, lay it open on a napkin, 
and season it high, spread half the farce 
over it ; on this put three of the slices of 
liver, and between each, some truffles, 
cut in halves; strew over a proper quan- 
tity of spiced salt; then half the remain- 
ing farce, the liver, truffles, and spice, 
as before ; cover the whole with the rest 
of the farce, and sew up the bird in its 
original form, and cook the galantine in 


( 393) 


PHE 


the usual way (see galantine of par- 
tridges). The pheasant however, requti es 
to be three hours on the fire. ; 

Pueasant (Gratin of).— Mince ex- 


‘tremely fine tlie breast of a pheasant that 


has been roasted, and put it in some 
good béchamelle sauce; mix it well up, 
and add a little lemon-juice; then pour 
it into a dish, shake over it a few bread- 
crumbs, sprinkle it with clarified butter, 
and then with more bread-crumbs, and, 
just before it is wanted, colour it withthe 
salamander. fi 

Pureasant, @ I’ Italienne —Well stew a 
couple of small pheasants with a farce in 
their crops ; place them carefully on a 
dish, pour over the whole an Jalienne 
sauce, and send them to table. 

PHEASANT, with Olives.*—Stuffa phea- 
sant with a farce, composed of fat livers, 
truffles, scallions (all minced), streaked 
bacon pounded, salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg, mixed together, with one or two 
yolks of eggs; wrap the bird ina slice 
of bacon, and roast it. When done, serve 
it with olives, stewed in rich veal gravy, 
poured round. 

Peasant, @ la Perigueux.*—Having 
picked and singed a pheasant, take out 
the entrails, &c., through the crop; take 
a pound and half of truffles, clean and 
pick them, cut them into pieces about 
the size of a nut, mince the trimmings 
very small; put half a pound cf grated 
bacon, a quartercf a pound of butter, and 
the same of olive oil, in a saucepan 3 set 
them on the fire, and when hot, put in 
the cut truffles, give them a few tarns, 
and then add a little salt, pepper, and 
spices; in about five minutes, throw in 
the minced trimmings fer a minute or 
two; then take off the pan, and when 
cold, fill your pheasant with this, throuzh 
the crop; lay a very thin piece of bacon 
on the aperture, draw the skin over, 
truss the bird, and tie it, so that the truf- 
fles cannot escape, and put it between 
slices of bacon into a saucepan, pour 
some poé/ée on it without the lemon- 
juice, cover it with a piece of buttered 
paper, and let it simmer for an hour; 
then drain and untie it carefully, and 
place it on a dish. Mince two truffles, 
give them a few turns in some but- 
ter; add three ladlesful of espagnole, 
the same of fumet of game, reduce the 
ct to half, strain, and pour it on the 

ird. 

Pueasant (Hot raised Pie of).*—Take_ 
a couple of pheasants that have hung for 
some days, and when picked and singed, 
cut them up, and give them a few turns 
in herbs; in the meantime make a raised 
crust, about seven inches in diameter and 
four in height, but smaller in the middle 


PHE 


than at top or bottom ; on the bottom and 
sides of this spread some good godiveau, 
or fine farce, with a couple of truffles 
minced small, lay the legs and backs of 
the pheasants on this, then four or five 
truffles, each cut in half, then place the 
fillets and breasts, more truffles, and so 
on till the birds are in; pour over them 
the herbs in which they were cooked ; 
cover the whole with two bay-leaves, 
and some slices of bacon; lay a paste 
on the top, ornament the exterior of 
the pie according to your fancy, dorez, 
and put it into a brisk oven; as soon as 
the top of the pie is nicely coloured, cut 
it off carefully, and place in its stead 
four pieces of paper, at least nine inches 
in diameter; let the pie remain in the 
even for an hour and a half} drain off 
the fat, and pour in an espagnole with 
some minced trufiles, glaze the crust, 
and send it to table. as soon as possible, 
after it is taken out of the oven. 
Pueasant, Standing Pie of.*—Bone 
three fine pheasants which have hung for 
some days, lard them with small lardons ; 
then lay them open on the . table, season 
with spiced salt, put in each two spoons- 
ful of farce, and a few truffles; then sew 
-upeach inthe form of a ball. Take a 
stewpan, the size you intend to have your 
pie, line it completely with slices of ham 
and bacon, on which lay the pheasants, 
anda noza# of veal, tied up that the form 
may be preserved ; add to these, a suffi- 
cient quantity of spiced salt, the bones of 
the pheasants, some cuttings of veal, and 
truffles, four onions, fstuck with three 
cloves, two carrots, a large bunch of pars- 
ley and scallions, bay-leaf, basil, thyme, 
a glass of Spanish wine, two ladlesfual of 
good consommé, and four of other broth 
skimmings 5 take care that your meat is 
covered with the liquor; put a buttered 
paper over the whole, and set it on the 
fire; when it has boiled a few minutes, 
take it off, and put the saucepan on the 
stove with fire on the lid, and leave it for 
an hour, boiling constantly. When quite 
cold, take out each article, add the ham 
and bacon to a farce, made as directed 
for Partridge Standing-pie Chaud-froid. 
Raise your crust as usual, and put into 
it a quarter of the farce, make it smooth, 
and having untied the veal, lay that in 
the pie, strew a little spiced salt over, a 
third of the remaining farce, and four 
truffles, each cut in two; then take the 
thread from the pheasants, trim them a 
little that they may lay in the pie without 
injuring the shape; put a pinch of spiced 
salt, and some truffles, cover them with 
the rest of the farce, in which put more 
trufties, cut in halves, then add the but- 
ter, bay-leaves, &c., and finish as direct- 


( 394 ) 





PHE 


ed in the above mentioned receipt. 


Three hours and a halfare sufficient te 
bake this pie; when taken out of the 
oven, pourin the consommé, previously 
strained through acloth, and close the 
hole with a piece of paste. a 
_Parasant to Roast.—Take out the en= 
trails, and singe the pheasant over the 


‘Stove, then rolla bit of butter in pepper 


and salt, and put it into the inside ofthe 


bird; truss it neatly with the head turn- 


ed on one side, keeping the breast as full 
as possible; over which should be laid 
slices of fat bacon tied on with pack-. 
thread; before it is put on the spit, 
break the backbone, that it may lay the 
better on the dish. A good>sized phea- 


sant will take halfan hour; when nearly 
done, take away the bacon, brown the 


pheasant well; sprinkle it with flour and 
salt, and froth it with butter; serve it 
with water-cresses, a good gravy under 
it, and bread sauce in a boat. 

Purasant, Salmis of.*—Take two cold 


roasted pheasants, cut them up, trim the 


pieces properly, take off all the skin, and 
put the limbs into a stewpan. Put the 
remains of the pheasants into another 
saucepan, with a glass of white wine, 
four shalots, a little Seville orange-peel, 
half a clove of garlic, halfa bay-leaf, four 
spoonsful of espagnole truvaillée, a bit of 
glaze, and a spoonful of consomme ; re- 
duce these, and then strain the sauce 
over the pheasant, make it hot in the 
bain mare, but do. not let it boil; lay 
them in a dish, the smallest pieces first, 


and the more considerable ones round,. 


intermixed with fried bread ; squeeze the 
juice ofa Seville orange into the sauce, 
which pour over the bird. 

PaeEasant. with Saur-Kraut.*—Take a 
large pheasant, and having picked and 
singed, truss it like a chicken; season 
the inside with parsley, scallions, salt, 
pepper, and spices, and lard it; take a 
sufficient quantity of saur-kraut to fill a 
good sized dish, put it into a saucepan 
with a piece of bacon, and a servelas, aa 
some pot skimmings, set it on: a moder- 
ate fire for a quarter of an hour, then 
take out the bacon and servelas, put in 
the pheasant, and leave it an_hour and a 
half; when done, take it out, putit on a 
dish, drain the saur-kraut, and lay it 
round the bird; remove the skin, and 
cut the servelas into slices, which, with 
the bacon also sliced, place round the 
whole. 

Pueasant, Soufié of.*—This dish is 
prepared in the same manner as’ the 
soujilé of partridge, » 

PuEasant with Trufies.—Take a fine 
large pheasant, and prepare it the same 
as afowl for boiling, with slices of. fat 





a 
‘ 
L 


ES ee 





PHE 


, 


chopped, with parsley and thyme; then 
put it to roast till it is well done, and of 
a fine brown colour, then dish it up, and 
garnish it with a good brown sauce, with 
truffles and mushrooms. 

PuHeasant fo Truss.—Let it be well 
picked and singed, then cut a slit in the 
back of the neck, and carefully take the 
crop out without breaking it; then cut 
off the vent, and draw out the inside, 
after this, well wipe the inside, aud then 
put in a little pepper and salt, mixed 
with a bitof butter. Having cleansed it, 
proceed to truss the bird, by first cutting 

- off the pinion at the first joint, so that 
the feathers need not be picked off that 
part; break the back-bone, and truss it 
in the same manner as a fowl, by press- 
ing the légs close to the apron, then turn 
the bird on the breast, and run a skewer 
through the end of the pinion, the leg, 
the body, and the leg and pinion on the 
other side, with the head fixed on the 
end of the skewer, and over the breast 
lay a slice of fat bacon, and tie it on with 
packthread. If for boiling or stewing, 
truss them the same as a fowl for boil- 
ing. 

Pueasants @ la Turgue.—Prepare two 
fine young pheasants, the same as chick- 
ens are prepared for stewing, with slices 
of fat bacon laid ever the breasts, then 
let them stew very gently in good braise, 
till they are done; in the meantime have 
some rice well stewed in good stock, 
with a small quantity of the fat, a little 
salt, anda bit of lean ham; when well 
stewed, so that no liquid remains, lay it 
neaily in the dish, and the pheasants 
upon it, and, when you serve, pour over 
the whole a good béchamelle sauce. 

Pueasanr (Fillets of ) Bigarrée.* — 
Cut six fillets from three young phea- 
sants, take six smaller ones, remove the 
skin from the former, beat them with the 
handle of the knife, and trim them, and 
having dissolved some butter in a toss- 
ing-pan, put three of them in it, and 
bread the three others, season with salt 
and pepper } then lard three of the small 
fillets as usual, and three with truffles, 
lay them on a baking-pan with a little 
glaze and melted butter, and cover with 
a piece of buttered paper. Then take 
the legs of three cold roast pheasants, 
and having removed the skin, sinews, 
and bones, mince the meat very fine, and 
putitinto a covered saucepan; make a 
fumé of the remainder of the pheasant; 
when done, strain, and reduce it, add 
three spoonsful of espagnole travailiée, 
and reduce the whole to a’ demi-giaze ; 
all your materials being thus prepared, 


( 395 ) 


bacon on the breasts; and put into the 
inside four or five whole truffles, andsome 


PHE 


fry three fillets lightly, and broil those 
which are breaded; both sides being 
nicely done, dish them en couronne, with 
tongue @ l’écarlate, cut in hearts; put 
the mince, some chopped truffles, and a 
piece of butter into the sauce, make it 
quite hot, (without boiling), and pour it 
into the centre of the couronne ; fry the 
small fillets lightly, and place them 
over the mince, also en couronne, and 
serve. 

PHEASANT (Fillets of ) a la Ste. Méné- 
hould.*—Having seasoned your fillets 
with salt and pepper, dip them in melted 
butter, and then in bread-crumbs ; take 
care that they are well covered with the 
latter, broil them slowly, and serve with 
an Italienne, or tomata sauce. 

Pueasant (Fillets of ) with Truffies.*#— 
Having iarded and dressed the fillets @ 
la chevalier (see that article), take the 
nerve from the small fillets, make half a 
dozen incisions in each, into which puta 
piece of truffle, having cut some in thin 
round slices,and divided them again into 
halves; all the small fillets being thus 
garnished, form them into semi-circles, 
aud lay them, with a little salt and pep- 
per, between two slices of bacon, set 
them ona stove and fry them lightly; 
drain your large fillets, glaze, and place 
them on a dish over a sauté of truffles; 
lay the small fillets in the centre, an 
serve. 

Purasant (Fillets of ) Sautés.*—Take 
eight fillets, trim and put them into a 
frying-pan with a little salt and pepper, 
put the small fillets in also; pour over 
them three quarters of a pound of melted 
butter; set the pan ona brisk fire, and 
do them on both sides, two or three mi+ 
nutes is sufficient to do them. Dish 
them alternately with fried bread, en 
couronne, the small fillets in the centre 3 
serve with espagnule mixed with afumeé 
of game. 

Pueasant Legs en Ballotine.*—Take 
as many pheasant legs as you may want, 
cut as much skin with them as you pos-= 
sibly can; bone them completely, lay 
them on a cloth, season them with salt, 
pepper, and spices, spread over each a 
little of the same kind of farce as you use 
for Pheasant Galantine, draw the skin 
over, and sew them up; place them ina 
stewpan between slices of bacon, with 
some good stock, half a bottle of white 
wine, a carrot, an onion, one clove, a bay- 
leaf, garlic, salt, and pepper; set the 
pan on the fire for about an hour; then 
take out the legs, lay them between two 
dishes, with a weight over; when cold, 
trim and stick seven or eight pieces of ~ 
truffles in the upper side of each, heat 
them in a:demi-glace, and dish them, 


PIE 


en courvonne, with a purée of mushrooms 
jn the middle. j 

Pueasant Legs with Purée of Len- 
dils.*—Cut the legs from the birds with 
as much of the skin as you can; take out 
the bones, in the place of which put in 
alittle farce made of bacon pounded, 
and mixed with sweet herbs, salt, and 
pepper; draw the skin over, and sew it 
up; put the legs intoa stewpan between 
slices of bacon; add two carrois, four 
sliced onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, 
some slices of veal, and a ladleful of 
stock ; simmer them for an hour and a 
half; then drain them, take. off the 
thread, dish them, alternately with fried 
bread e2 couronne, with the purée of 
Jentils in the centre. 

PICKLE for Tongues.*—To four gal- 
lons of water, add two pounds and a half 
of treacle, eight pounds of salt, two 
ounces of gsaltpetre ; boil it, and skim it 
until clear, sprinkle salt over the tongue, 
and let it stand two days, wipe it clean 
before you put it into the pickle, which 
must be quite cold; boi! the pickle every 
two or three months, adding two or three 
handsful of salt, skimming it well. 

Half the quantity is sufficient for two 
tongues. 

PIE, Anglo-Frangais.*¥—Take a deep 
dish, line the edge with pufl-paste like 
acommon pie; stew a quarter of a pound 
of rice with some sugar until quite soft 
and sweet; take a pound of ripe juicy 
cherries, which pick and rol] in a quarter 
of a pound of powder-sugar, and lay 
about a quarter of them at the bottom of 
the dish 5 cover these with a fourth part 
of the rice, then the cherries again, and 
soon till your materials are used, taking 
care to keep the pie high in the middle} 
cover it with a layer of puff-paste, which 
wash over lightly with some white of 
egg, and strew a little powder-sugar 
over; put it in a moderate oven for an 
hour and a quarter; then take it out, 
mask the crust with anricot marmalade, 
and a few macaroons crushed. Serve it 
either hotor cold. 

Pit (Itaised) to be served Hot.—Make 
a stiff paste, as directed for Raised Pies, 
which mix with warm water; when tho- 
roughly well mixedand blended tegether, 
roll it out tolerably thin; cut a piece out 
for the bottom, and two for the sides, ac- 
cording to the shape of the dish, egg the 
edges of the parts you intend to join, and 

ress them well together, so that the 
joining may not be perceptible; shape it, 
garnish it with leaves or festoons, ac- 
cording to your own taste, fill it nearly 
to the top with bran, eggit, and let it be 
baked in a moderate oyen 3 when done ot 
a fine light colour turn out the bran, and 


(396 ) 


PIE 


set it ready for what you intend to putin, 
which may be either cutlets of mutton 
stewed with vegetables, partridges farced 
with a brown sauce, chicken cut up wit 
arago(it ina brown sauce, stewed carp, 
or eels, &c. 

Piz (Hot Raised) Anglo- Frangais.*-= 
Take the fillets from four loins of mutton, 
trim and cut them into scollops, which 
season well with salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg}; dissolve slowly three quarters of a 
pound of butter, and the instant it be- 
comes liquid put into it two spoonsful of 
parsley, four of mushrooms, the same of 
truffles (all shred fine), and a shalot, 
blanched and shred also. Make a raised 
crust of whatever form and size you please, 
and having soaked the fillets in the butter 
and herbs, lay them on the pie, en cow- 
ronne ; fillupthe centre with mushrooms, 
minced truffles, artichoke-bottoms, veal 
or lamb sweetbreads; pour the remain- 
der of the butter and herbs over; cover 
them with two bay-leaves, slices of ba- 
con, and the lid of the pie; decorate the 
walls or sides tastefully, dorez and set it 
in a brisk oven; when you find the top is 
sufficiently coloured, cut it offand lay in 
its place three or four sheets of paper, and 
replace the pie inthe oven; an hour an 
a half is the time it will require to bake 
properly ; as soon as it is done, take out 
the bay-leaves and bacon, and pour ina 
demi-glaze of mutton mixed with an 
essence of truffles and mushrooms and 
the juice of a lemon ; glaze the crust, and 
serve ee eae hot. ; 

Pre (Hot Raised) & la Financiére.*¥— 
Make a raised crust of any form you may 
think proper; line the inside with thin 
slices of bacon, and fill it up with beef- 
suet chopped small; decorate the exte- 
rior of the pie according to your fancy, 
dorez and put it into a brisk oven for an 
hour; then take it out, and when it is a 
little cooled, take out all the contents, 
half fill it with a fowl or game gzwenelle, 
and finish it with a ragodt of lamb sweet- 
breads, cock’s-combs, and kidneys, 
mushrooms, truffles, artichoke- bottoms, 
six cray-fish, and as many cray-fish tails} 
pour in some good espagnole, worked u 
with a fowl consommé, flavoured wit 
truffles, some Rhenish or dry Madeira 
wine. Glaze the pie lightly, and serve 
it as quickly after itis baked as you can. 

Pre (French) Raised, to be served 
Cold.— Bone some chickens, partridges, 
or pheasants, the number according to 
the size you intend to make your pie; be 
particularly careful that no particle of 
bone remains, and that you do not break 
the skin ; when the whole is boned, with 
pepper and salt sprinkled in, fill it well 
with the forcemeat made of chickea 








‘ 
A 
: 


= 


ea kee 


, 





PIE 
livers (see Forcemeat for Raised Pies), 
and lay in long slips of lean ham, truffles, 
and fat livers; then close your chickens, 
or whatever it may be, by drawing the 
skin of the neck over the part that is 
Open; raise your pie the same as in the 
receipt for Raised Pie to be served Hot, 
only let the crust be much thicker, and 
secure all the joining parts ; when so far 
done, cut some large thin slices of fat 
bacon, lay them first at the bottom, then 
all round the sides; make what you in- 
tend to putin as nearly to the shape of 
the pie as you possibly can, by filling up 
every part, that there may be no cavity 
under the meat; or it may occasion your 
pie to fall or lose its shape; when all is 
put in, cover it well over with fat bacon, 
and lay three bay-leaves on the top; for 
gravy, put in some liquor in which trufiles 
have been stewed, or some good strong 
veal or beef braize, egg the edge of the 
pie round, and Jay on a good thick cover, 
joining it well to the edge, that being a 
great support to the pie; then neatly 
trim it all round; form on the top of the 
crust a star of leaves with a hole in the 
centre; on the sides festoons, leaves, or 
garlands, aceording to your own taste ; 
egg it lightly over, and bake it in a hot 
regularly heated oven; a small-sized pie 
will take about four hours baking, a 
larger pie accordingly ; take care, on first 
putting it in, that it does not catch or 
burn, which it is apt to do, and in that 
case, have plenty of paper to lay over it. 
Before the pie is quite done, set on some 
good consommé or veal braize, and let it 
boil till it becomes very strong, and pour 
it into the pie as soon as it is taken out of 
the oven, and set it to cool; if the next 
day it should appear to have taken all the 
gravy, more must be added. It had 
better stand three or four days before it. 
is served; you may, for a change, take 
oft the cover, and in its place sprinkle 
some clear savoryjelly on thetop. This 
is a good dish for the side table. 

Pir (Hot Raised) a la Monglas.*—Soak 
two fine fat livers in warm water till they 
are perfectly cleansed, then set them on 
the fire in cold water; when near boiling 
take out the livers, and throw them into 
cold water again, and when cool cut 
them into scollops, season them well, 
and having melted a quarter of a pound 
of butter, the same of grated bacon, a 
dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mush- 
rooms, four of truffles (all shred small), a 
small piece of shalot, blanched and 
minced, salt and spices to your taste, 
put the livers inio this, set it on a gentle 
fire for ten minutes ; thenset it by, and 
when cold, trim the pieces, take about a 
fourth part of them, and pound them 


( 397 ) 


PIE 
with the trimmings; mix some of this 
with an equal quantity of good fowl furce. 
Having raised a crust in the usual way 
(see Hot Raised Pie for Pheasants), line 
the inside completely with the farce, lay 
the liver in proper order in it, pour in. 
the herbs, and place on the whole two 
bay-leaves and slices of bacon, lay on the 
or and finish the pie as above directed. 
hen done, pour in a sauce made as 
follows :—Take the pounded liver that 
was set aside, put it into a saucepan with 
a spoonful of espagnole, make them hot, 
and having strained, add to them three 
ladlesful of espagnole, worked up with a 
fowl consommé, some Madeira wine, and 
four fine truffles, minced ; make this very 
hot, but do not let it boil. 

Pre (Hot Raised) Russian.*—Take a 
small salmon, and a small fat liver, cut 
them into scollops, and simmer both 
(but separately) in some butter, with 


| shred mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and 


shalot, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; mince 
the yolks of a dozen hard eggs. Make a 
raised crust as usual (see Hot Raised Pie 
of Pheasant), within which puta layer of 
rice, previously boiled in chicken broth, 
but cold (as should be the other materials 
also); on this lay some of the scollops of 
salmon, on which strew part of the eggs; 
then a layer of the liver, strew the egg, 
then the salmon again, and so on, till 
your pie is full; then pour in the butter 
and herbs; cover the whole with rice, 
and finish the pie according to the above 
directions. 

Pre, Pithiviers.*—Take eight dozen of 
larks, and having picked and singed 
them, split them open, take out the in- 
testines, which (except the gizzards) mix 
with bread-crumbs and two pounds of the 
following farce :—Take equal quantities 
of fillet of veal and bacon, mince these, 
season them with pepper, salt, and 
spices ; then pound them and the intes- 
tines, adding occasionally small quan- 
tities of jelly to keep it of a proper con- 
sistence, and fill the bodies of the lurks 
with it. Take about two pounds of paste 
for raised crusts, raise it as usual, mak- 
ing it either square or round, as you may 
think proper; lay a bed of farce at tbe 
bottcm of it, on which place the larks, 
well-seasoned, and each wrapped in a 
thin slice of bacon, put some butter 
worked with flour over, cover the whole 
with slices of bacon, two bay-leaves, and 
the top crust; fix the edges together, 
ornament the top and sides according to 
your taste, dorez, and bake it for two 
hours and a kalf, serve it cold. Wood- 
cocks, snipes, or any other small birds, 
may be used instead of Jars. 

Pig, ae or Devonshire.*—Take a 

NV 


PIG 


few good baking apples, pare, core, and 
slice them}; chop some onions verysmall ; 
line a deep dish with paste, putin a layer 
of the apples, strew a little sugar, and 
some of the chopped onions over them; 
season them, and lay lean mutton chops, 
also seasoned, more onions, then the 
apples, &c. as before, and so on till the 
dish is quite full; cover, and bake the pie. 

Pig Baked.—Lay your pig in a dish, 
flour it well all over, then rub it over 
with butter; butter the dish you lay it 
in, and put it into the oven. When done 
enough, take it out, and rub it over with 


a butter cloth; then put it again into the | 


oven tillitis dry, then take it out and 
lay it in a dish; cut it up, take a little 
veal gravy, and take off the fat in the 
dish it was baked in, and there will be 
some good gravy at the bottom ; put that 
to the veal gravy, with a little bit of but- 
ter, rolled in flour ; boil it up, and put it 
in a dish in which the pig has been laid, 
and put the brains with some sage into 
the belly. Some persons like a pig to be 
brought to table whole, in which case 
you are only to put what sauce you like 
into the dish. 

Pic, Barbicued.—Scald, &c., a pig, of 
about nine or ten weeks old, the same as 
for roasting; make a stuffing with a few 
sage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two 
anchovies boned, washed, and cut ex- 
tremely small; put them into a mortar, 
with some bread-crumbs, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, a very little cayenne 
pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine; 
beat them to a paste,.and.sew it up in 
the pig; lay it ata good distance before 


a large brisk fire ; singe it well ; put two | 


bottles of Madeira wine into the drip- 
ping-pan, and keep basting it all. the 
time it is roasting ; when half done, put 
two French rolls into the drippingpan ; 
and if there is not wine enough in the 
drippingpan, add mere: when the pig is 
nearly done, take the rolls and sauce, 
and put them into a saucepan, with an 
anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and the juice of a lemon; take up 
the pig, send it to table with an apple in 
its mouth, and a roll on each side ; then 
strain the sauce over it. 

‘Some barbicue a pig of six or seven 
weeks old, and stick it all over with 
blanched almonds, and baste it in the 
same manner with Madeira wine. 

Pic, Collared. — Take a fine young 
roasting pig, and as soon as it is killed, 
dress off the hair, and draw it; wash it 
clean ; rip it open from one end to the 
other, and completely bone it; rub it all 
over with pepper and salt, a little cloves 
and mace, beaten fine, some sage leaves, 
and sweet herbs, chopped fine, then bind 


( 398 ) 


PIG 


it up, Fillthe pot you mean to.boil it. in 
with soft water, and put in a bunch of 
sweet, herbs, some pepper-corns, Cloves, 
mace, a handful ofsalt, anda pint oft wine 
gar; when the liquor boils put in the pigs. 
and let it boil till tender ; take it up, an@ 
when. almost cold, binditover again; put, 
it into an earthen pan, and pour the liquor, 
that it was boiled in over it, and keep 1t 
covered; when you want to use it, take. 
‘it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as, 
/you want to cut it, and then cut. it in, 
slices, and lay it in your dish. Garnish 
with parsley. ndiaiiien 
Pia, en Galantine.°—Well scald a Dig» 
bone and extend it on alinen cloth ; then 
lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned, 
according to taste; put over the stuffing, 
which should be laid on about the thick- 
ness of a crown, first a layer of ham, cut. 
in thin slices, and. then a layer of hard, 
eggs; cover these layers, with a. little. 
forcemeat, roll. up the pig, being careful, 
not to displace the Jayers, and, cover it, 
with thin slices of fat bacon, wrapping, 
the whole in a filtering cloth ; wind some. 
packthread tight round it, and let it boil. 
for three hours, in equal, quantities of, 
stock and white wine, adding salt and 

coarse pepper, some roots and onions, a. 
large bunch of parsley, shalots, a clove of, 
garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, and, 
basil ; when done, leave it to.cool in the 
stock, and serve cold ; you may add, if you 

think proper, a layer of truffles. 

Pie’s Harslet.—Wash and dry some. 
livers, sweetbreads, and some iat. and 
lean pieces of pork, beating the latter. 
with a rolling-pin to make them tender ; 
season with pepper, salt, and sage, anda, 
little onion shredded fine; when mixed, 
put all into a cawl, and fasten it tight 
with a needle and thread, and roast it by 
a jack, or by a string. 

Or, serve in slices, with parsley, fora fry. 

Serve with a sauce of port wine and 
water, and mustard, just boiled up, and. 
put it into a dish. ‘ 

Pia Dressed like House Lamb.—Take 
the fore-quarter of a pig, about six weeks, 
old; skin and truss itas a fore-quarter. 
of lamb: flour it, and sprinkle it over. 
with a little salt, and send it to table. 
nicely frothed. With mint sauce or salad, 
it will eat like lamb. When it comes to, 
table, cut off the shoulder, and squeeze 
the juice of a Seville orange over it. The > 
hind quarter is very good roasted in the 
same way. ; 

Pie in Jelly. —Take a pig, and cut it 
into quarters ; put itintoa stewpan, wit 
a pint of Rhenish wine, or Lisbon wine, 
a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, the 
juice of four lemons, and a few cloves ; let 
it stew over a slow fire for two hours; 





PTG 
‘after it has stewed this time, take it up, 
Jay the pig in a dish, strain the liquor, 
and when it is cold skim off the fat, leav- 
‘Ing the settling at the bottom; warm the 
_ ‘Jelly again, and pour over the pig; serve 
it up cold in the jelly. 
a Pig in Jelly.—Having prepared a pig 
as if for roasting, put it into a braising- 
‘pan, large enough to contain it without 
Spoiling the shape; add four calf’s feet, | 
gue in pieces, a knuckle of veal, some 
Slices of beef and ham, a bunch of pars- 
Jey, shalots, cloves, garlic, bay-leaf,. 
thyme, nutmeg, whole pepper and salt; 
‘cover the pig with slices of bacon, pour 
‘in @ bottle of white wine, and double the. 
Quantity of good stock, cover the pan 
‘quite close, and set it on the fire for an 
‘hour, taking care that it does net boil 
too fast. When done, take out the pig 
gently, put the braise in another satce- ; 
pan, clean the braisingpan, then put a. 
layer of fresh parsley, and some cray- 
fish at the bottom of it, on which place 
the pig back downwards, and keep it 
hot. In the meantime, the braise hav- 
ing Simmered, skim and strain it; add. 
‘some Slices of peeled lemon, the whites 
and shells of eight eggs, well beaten (the 
atter should be pounded first}, and boi! | 
the whole till perfectly clear, and of a pro- 
per consistence ; then strain it through 
a napkin over the pig, soas to cover it 
completely; when the jelly is set, dip. 
the pan into boiling water, and turn it) 
‘out on a napkin folded toreceiveit. 
Pic Olives.— Bone, and cut off the’ 
fiead and feet of a fine pig ; take a part 
of the flesh, and mince it with some beef 
suet, then pound these with some bread 
‘crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (all 
shred), and add some cream, a spoonful 
of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, 
salt, and natmeg. Cut the skin of the 
pig into pieces, in each of which roll 
some of the farce, tie up the olives, and 
‘cook them in some stock; add a glass of 
white wine, and a few slices of peeled 
Temon. Serve the olives with any sauce 
you may think proper. 
—Pia’s Pettitoes a la Ste. Ménéhould.— 
ell clean and wash the pettitoes, then 
line the bottom of a stewpan with an 
onion and a carrot, cut in slices, a few 
pepper-corns, parsley, one clove of garlic, 
and a bay-leaf; over these lay bards of 
fat bacon, then place the pettitoes regu- 
larly over, then a fresh layer of bacon, 
then pettitoes again, and bacon over 
them; add some good beef stock, lay a 
round paper close on the top, cover it, 
ut them to stew between two fires very 
gently, till thoroughly done; then take 
hem off, and when they are cool, toss 
them in eggs with pepper and salt; take 


( 399 ) 










PYG 


them, and do them over with bread 
crumbs, lay them on paper; then dip 


them in clarified butter, and do them 


over with bread crumbs a second time; 
lay them on the gridiron, and grill them 
a fine light brown; dish them up, and 
serve under them a good remolade sauce. 

Pic, Roulades of.—Scald a fine sucking 
pig, and having cutoff the head and feet, 
bene and cut it into quarters; makea 
forcemeat with grated bacon, bread- 
crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms 
(shred small), three yolks of eggs, pep- 
per and salt ; put some of this upon each 
Ghartety roll them up, and tie and braise 
them in stock and white wine... When 
done, take them out, skim. and strain the 
sauce, add to it.a littie cullis and lemon- 
juice, and pour it over the rowlades. 

Pig Stuffed. — After having. scalded 
your pig, and prepared it in the usual 
manner, make a stuffing with its liver 
minced, some blanched bacon, a few truf- 
fles, mushrooms, shalots, fine capers, 


anchovies, fine herbs, pepper and salt, 


all warmed together in a saucepan. Fill 
the stomach of the pig with this stuffing, 
roast it, basting it with sweet oil. Itis 
generally served with a sauce @ orange 
de Seville, seasoned with salt and white 


pepper. 

Pia, Timbale of.*—Bone and take all 
the flesh from a nice pig, without tnjuring 
the skin; mince the meat with truffles, 
ham, bacon, parsley, and shalots ; when 
minced, soak them in oil, pepper and 
salt. Lay the skin open in a small stew- 
pan, place the farce on it, close the skin, 
round it and cover it with slices of bacon 5 
fill the Saucepan with sxood stock, anda 
pint of white wine; add sliced carrots, 
onions, parsley, garlic, shalots, cloves,. 
bay-leafandthyme. Let it be thoroughly 
stewed, and serve it either hot or cold; 
if the latter, it must be more highly sea- 
soned, left to cool in the braise, and then 
turned out on a folded napkin. When 
sent to table hot, serve a sauce espagnole 
with it. a 

Pia’s Cheek to Prepare for Boiling.— 
Take off the snout, and thoroughly clean 
the head ; divide it, and take out the 
eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with 
salt, and let it strain for four and twenty 
hours. Well salt it with common salt 
and saltpetre, and if it is to be dressed 
without stewing with peas, it must lay in 
salt for eight or ten days, but if to be 
dressed with peas, it need not lay in salt 
for so long ; and it must be washed first, 
aad then simmer it till tender. ; 

Pre’s Hars.*— Braise your pig’s ears 
in the same manner as_boar’s head (see 
that article) :. when cold, mince, and put 
Me. astewpan; take a dozen large 


PLG 


onions, cut them in semicircles, put them 
‘also into a stewpan, with a dessert-spoon- 
ful of flour; stir it well, and then add 
half a glass of vinegar, a glass of stock, 
salt and pepper; give the whole a few 
boils, then pour it over the ears, fry 
them lightly; and when done, lay them 
on a dish, with fried bread round. 

Pia’s Ears Brotled.*—Having slightly 
salted the ears, boil them in some good 
stock, with salt, pepper, coriander, tar- 
ragon, streaky bacon, and halfa glass of 
white wine; when done, split them in 
two, towards the thick part; rub them 
lightly with some of their own fat, bread 
them all over, and colour them on the 
gridiron. 

Pia’s Ears (Cake of ).*— Take fifteen 
or eighteen pigs’ ears, and having singed 
and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them 
in halves, and put them into a pan with 
some sward of bacon, clear salted water, 
juniper,coriander,bay-leaf,cloves,thyme, 
saltpetre; cover the pan with a cloth, 
garlic. basil, sage, and half an ounce of 
and lay another pan on the top, leave 
them in this for eight or ten days; then 
drain, and put them into a braising-pan, 
with water, a bottle of white wine, and a 
glass of brandy, and simmer them; in 
about five hours take them off the fire ; 
when nearly cold, drain and arrange the 
ears in layers, in a well-tinned mould, 
alternately with pieces of tongue @ /’écar- 
late ; when full, cover, and put a weight 
on it; keep the mould as even as possi- 
ble, let it cool, turn it out, and serve the 
cake with jelly. , 

Pia’s Kars a laLyonnaise.*—Take some 
braised pig’s ears, and having cut them 
into pieces, put them into a pan witha 
few chopped onions, (previously tossed 
up ina little butter), add a small quan- 
tity of flour, and a glass of stock ; reduce 
it, and serve with vinegar and lemon- 
juice. 

Pia’s Ears, with a Purée of Lentils.* 
—Put rather more than a pint of lentils 
into a stewpan, lay on them some pig’s 
ears, two carrots, three onions, one of 
them stuck with two cloves, two bay- 
leaves, and some salt; when the ears are 
done, take them out, and put them into 
a saucepan with a little broth, and keep 
them hot; put the lentils into a sieve, 
and rub them through with a wooden 
spoon; if the purée be too thick or dry, 
add some stock, set it again on the fire, 
and reduce it. Drain the ears, lay them 
on a dish, and cover them completely 
with the purée. Pig’s ears may be dressed 
like this, with any other kind of purée 
you may like better. 

Pie’s Ears Stuffed and Roasted.* — 
Make a faree of streaky bacon, veal, 


{ 400) 


eP AG 


poultry, or game, minced, sweet herbs 
shred small, bread soaked in cream, salt 
and spices ; with this farce stuff as many 
half boiled pig’sears as you may require; 
take an equal number of large slices of 
bacon, spread a layer of the farce over 
each, and tie an ear in everyslice ; cover 
them well with bread crumbs, fasten 
them on aspit, and roast them before a 
slow fire, basting with their own gravy. 

Pia’s Ears a la Venitienne.*—Boil the 
ears in some stock, with a couple of 
sprigs either of sage or tarragon; when 
quite cold, rub them with lard; cover 
them completely with bread crumbs and 
grated Parmesan cheese, and bake them. 

Pria’s Ears in Various Ways.—Rub the 
ears daily with the following mixture: 
salt, bay-leaves, basil, and cloves, 
pounded together ; in four or five days 
boil them thoroughly, either in water 
alone, or with green or dried peas; serve 
the ears with a purée of peas, or sauce 
Robert. They are also sometimes cut 
in small pieces, and broiled or fried ac- 
cording to your taste. 

Pia’s Feet and Ears Fricasseed.—If 
they are tojbe dressed with cream, no 
vinegar should be put into the pickle. 
Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and 
boil them in a little milk ; then pour that 
from them, and simmer in a little veal- 
broth, with a_ bit of onion, mace, and 
lemon-peel. Before serving, add a little 
cream, flour, butter, and salt. 

Pie’s Feet Jelly.—Clean and prepare 
them the same as for fricasseeing, then 
boil them in a very small quantity of 
water till every bone can be taken out; 
throw in a handful of chopped sage, an 
a handful of chopped parsley, and a sea- 
soning of pepper,. salt, and mace in fine 
powder; simmer till the herbs are sealded, 
then pour the whole into a melon-form, 

Pia’s Feet a ia Ste. Ménéhould.* — 
Cut some pig’s feet in halves, and hav- 
ing tied them up, that their form may be- 
preserved, put them into a saucepan, 
with thyme, bay-leaf, carrots, onions, 
cloves, parsley, scallions, a little brine, 
half a bottle of white wine, two ladlesful 
of broth or water, (they require a great 
deal of liquid, as they ought to be a long 
time on the fire); some bits of any kind 
of meat may also be added. When the 
feet have simmered for twenty-four 
hofirs, leave them to cool in the liquor, 
untie them carefully; the next day di 
them into melted butter, season wit 
pepper, cover completely with bread 
crumbs, and broil them slowly. Serve - 
them without any sauce. 

Pie’s Feet and Ears Pickled.—Wash 
the feet and ears very clean, and between 
every foot put a bay-leaf; when they are 





PIG 


well soaked, add some cloves, mace, co- 
riander-seed, and ginger; put a bottle 
of white wine to three pair of feet and 
ears, some bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet 
herbs; let them boil getitly till they are 
tender, then take them out of the liquor, 
lay them in an earthen pan; when cold, 
take off the fat, and strain the liquor over 
them. They eat well cold, or warmed 
in the jelly, thickened with butter rolled 
in flour ; or take the feet and ears out of 
the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and 
then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, 
or fry thém in butter; tay the ears in the 
middle, and the feet round: or ragotit 
then: 

Pie’s Feet and Ears (Ragodt of ).— 
Take them out of the pickle, split the 
feet, dip them in egg, then in bread 
crumbs and chopped parsley; fry them 
in lard, drain thet § cut the ears into 
long narrow slips, flour them, put them 
into good gravy; add ketchup, morels, 
and pickled mushrooms}; stew them, 
pour them into a dish, and lay the feet 
upon them. . 
_Pra’s Feet and Ears Soused.—Clean 
them, and boil them till they are tender ; 
then split the feet, and put them and 
the ears in salt and water. When-you 
use them, dry them well in a cloth, dip 
thein in batter, fry them, and send them 
to table with melted butter in a boat. 
They may be eaten cold, and will keep a 
considerable time. _ 

Pia’s Feet with Truffles.* — Cut the 
feetin halves, tie and dress them as di- 
rected for la Ste. Ménéhould, but when 
they have simmered eight hours, remove 
them from the fire; when about half 
cold, take them out of the sauce, and 
bone them; makea farce as follows :— 
také equal portions of the white parts of 
cold roasted fowl, crumb of bread, and 
ready dressed calf’s udder, pound them 
all, at first separately, and then all toge- 
ther; mix them with three or four yolks 
of eggs, some minced truffles, a little 
cream, salt, pepper, and spices; these 
being well amalgamated, add a few 
truffles, cut inslices. Put this farce into 
the spaces left by the bones, cover it with 
either calf’s or pig’s caul; keep them in 
their proper form, dip themin melted 
buttér, and bread them. About twenty 
minutes before serving, broil them slowly 
on both sides. Serve them without 


sauce. 

P1@’sHedd Collared.—Very nicely scour 
the héad and éars; take off the hair and 
snout, and fake out the eyes and brain; 
lét it lay for one night in water; then 
drain it; salt it extremely well, with 
common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie 
for five days. Boil it sufficiently to take 


(401 ) 


PIG 


out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, 
turning the thick end of oné side of the 
héad towards the thick end of the other, 
to make the roil of an equal size; 
sprinkle it well with salt and white pep- 
per, and roll it with the ears; and, if 
you think proper, put the pig’s feet 
round the outside, when boned, or the 
thin parts of a couple of cow-heels, Put 
it into a cloth, bind with a broad tape, 
and boil it till quite tender; then put, it 
under a weight, and do not take off the 
covering until it is quite cold. 

Tf you wish it to be more like brawn, 
salt it longer, and let the proportion of 
saltpetre be greater, and put in also 
some pieces of lean pork, and then cover 
it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. 
This may be kept either in or out of 
pickle of salt. and water, boiled with 
vinegar, Iflikely to spoil, slice and fry 
it, either with or without batter. 

Pia’s Kidnies with Champagne.* —— 
Mince the kidnies, and put them with a 
bit of butter; shred parsley and shalot, 
salt, pepper and nutmeg, into a pan, toss 
it up, aud when, lightly browned, add a 
dessert spoonful of flour, stir it in, and 
then pour on a glass of champagne; stir 
all together over the fire, without letting 
it boil. 

Pie’s Liver and Brains in Caul,* — 
Mince half a pound of pig’s liver, and 
three quarters of a potind of fat; mix 
them together, season with salf, pepper, 
spices and dried herbs; take some pig’s 
caul cut in pieces, in each of which tie 
up a portion of the’‘above ; flatten them, 
and broil them ona moderate fire. 

Pig’s brains are dene precisely in the 
same way. P 

Pia’s Liver, Fromage of .*—Take three 
pounds of liver, two pounds of bacon, and 
half a pound of beef; mince them all to- 
gether, and then add shred parsley and 
scallions, salt, pepper, aromatic herbs, 
and spices, pounded; lay over the bot- 
tom of a mould or saucepan, very thin 
slices of bacon, on which spread the 
above faree, to about three inches in 
thickness; puta layer of seasoned J/ar- 
dons on this, then the farce again, and 
80 on, alternately, till the mould is full ; 
cover it with slices of bacon, and put it 
in the oven; bake it for three hours. 
When cold dip the mould in hot water, 
which wil] enable you to turn out the 


Sromage with ease; make it hot in the 


bain-marie before you serve it. 

Pia (Quarters of) with Peas.*—Cut 
a delicate young pig into quarters, which 
put into a braising panon slices of bacon, 
with carrots, turnips, parsley, sage, bay- 
leaf, salt, and pepper; set the pan on 
cy tri aite when it begins to be flavours 


PIG 


ed, pourin a pint of good stock, as much 
white wine, and let it stew for five or 
six hours; then take it out, and keep it 
hot; dress some young peas in the 
sauce, and having glazed the quarters, 
lay them in a dish, and the peas 
round, 

Pra (Sucking).—A sucking pig is in 

prime order for the spit when it is about 
three weeks old. It loses part of its 
goodness every hour after it is killed; if 
not quite fresh, no art can make the 
crackling crisp. 
_ To be eaten in perfeetion, it should be 
dressed the same day that it is killed ; it 
requires very careful roasting, and should 
not be left foran instant, The ends must 
have much more fire than the middle; 
for this purpose is contrived an iron to 
hang before the middle part, called a 
pig-iron. Roast it ata clear brisk fire, 
at some distance. The crackling must be 
nicely crisped, and delicately and lightly 
browned, without being either blistered 
or burnt. 

Pra’s (Sucking) Feet.—Blanch two or 
three sets of feet and the plucks, then 
put the feet into half a pint of water, 
with a couple of shalots, asmall quantity 
of sage, and parsley chopped fine, some 
pounded nutmeg and mace, a very little 
of each; when the feet are three parts 
done, and the liquor nearly reduced, 
mince the pluck, and put it to the feet 
with some cullis, half a table-spoonful of 
lemon-pickle, and a_ table-spoonful of 
white wine; season according to taste, 
with cayenne, pepper, and salt. Stew 
the feet till they are tender, and serve 
with sippets of bread round them, either 
plain or fried. 

Pia (Sucking) Fillets of, en Chemise.* 
—Take what remains from a cold roast 
pig,and cut it into small slices; makea 
faree of the liver, heart, and marrow of 
the animal, some streaky bacon, bread 
soaked in milk, and yolks of eggs, season 
it moderately. Take some sheep’s caul, 
cut itinto pieces the size of your hand, 
upon each of which lay some of the farce, 
and aslice of the pig; cover these with 
the farce and ancther piece of caul, fix 
the edges together with beaten egg, 
bread and broil them slowly. 

Pie (Sucking) a la Pére Douillette.— 
Take asucking pig, cut off its head, and 
cut the pig into four quarters, put them 
to stew between bards of fat bacon, with 
the head split and laid in the middle, 
covering the whole with a good braise, 
adding nearly half a bottle of sherry, 
with a bay-leaf, carrots, onions, parsley, 
asma!l piece of garlic, and some salt ; 
let the whole stew gently between two 
fires for the space of half an hour; then 


( 402 ) 


PiC¢ 


take it up, and lay it in a stewpan, with 
a little of the braise it was stewed in, and 
set it by the fire; pass the remainder 
through a sieve into another stewpan ;_ 
put this on the fire, and as soon as it 
boils stir in five good spoonsful of plain 
sauce; when that boils, put in some 
truffles, mushrooms, morels, fat livers, 
and let it boil till nearly as thick as 
saucesin general. Having taken up the 
stewed pig, and laid it ona dish, cut a 
sweetbread (previously stewed) into 
slices, and lay them round the pig, put a. 
liaison of the yolks of two eggs, anda 
little cream into the sauce, with the 
other things; add the juice of half a 
lemon, and pour the whole over the pig; 
be careful that it is very hot, but take: 
care that it does not boil after the eggs. 
are putin. j 

Pia (Sucking) Roasted.—A pig te roast 
is best frorn three to four weeks old. Pre- 
pare a stuffing with slices of bread and 
butter, sprinkled well with chopped 
gage, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt, laying five or six slices one. upon 
another, and put them into the inside of 
the pig; skewer it well, to prevent it 
from falling out, and then spit it, pre- 
viously rubbing it over with sweet oil ; 
put it down before a moderate fire to 
roast for two hours, more or less, accord- 
ing to its size; when thoroughly done, 
take off the head, and split the pig 
straight down the back (there must be a_ 
dish under ready to receive it);then dish 
up the two halves, and splitting the head, 
lay half at each end of the dish, pour 
some good strong gravy under it, and 
serve hot. Or you may take out the stufi- 
ing, and mix it with some melted butter, 
and serve it as a sauce; orsausage-meat 
may be put inside the pig, instead of the 
bread and sage. Some persons prefer 
having the pig baked, instead of roasted, 
it is equally good either way. 

Pre (Sucking) to Scald. — The instant 
the pig is killed, put it fora few minutes 
into cold water: then pound a little resin 
extremely fine, and rub the pig all over 
with it, and then putit, for halfa minute, 
into a pail of scalding water; take it out, 
lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as 
quickly as possible; if any part does not 
come off, put it in again. When quite 
clean, wash it well with warm water, and 
afterwards in two or three cold waters, 
that no flavour of the resin may remain, 
Take off all the feet at the first joint; 
make a slit down the belly, and take out 
the entrails; put the liver, heart and 
lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in 
cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold 
it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. 

Pic (Sucking) Stuffed.* — Having 





PIG 


scalded a pig, singe, and bone it to the 
Head, which leave whole; take a pound 
of calf’s liver, a pound of bacon, mince 
_both these with a little sage, pounded 
spice, aromatic herbs, salt and pepper; 
fill the body of the pig with this; also roll 
in i¢ some large lardons, also lard the 
limbs and back of the pig; sew in the 
farce, rub the whole body with lemon, 
lay in a cloth some sage, and four bay- 
leaves, cover the back of the pig with 
slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and 
tie it up; put it into a saucepan; pour on 
it equal quantities of good stock, and 
white wine, and let it simmer for three 
hours and a half over a moderate fire; 
then take it off, and leave it in the sauce- 
pan 3 in an hour’s time take it out, press 
it carefully, so that the shape may not be 
spoiled ; do not remove the cloth until 
perfectly cold; lay a folded napkin ona 
dish, and serve the pig on it. 

Pie’s Tails a la Purée.*—Take half a 
dozen pig’s tails, leave on the skin, and 
cut them into pieces about eight inches 
long; braise with some lentils, two car- 
rots, two onions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, 
stock, or water, and salt; when they are 
done, finish in the same manner as pig’s 
ears & la purée. 

Pie’s Tongues Smoked. *— Take as 
many pig’s tongues as you please, take 
out the horny parts, scald them suftii- 
ciently to enable you to remove the first 
skin; put them as closely together as 
you can, into a jar, rubbing each with 
salt and a little saltpetre, add basil, bay- 
leaf, thyme, and juniper berries; place 
something heavy on the top to press 
them down; fill all the interstices with 
salt, and cover the jar very close, and set 
it ina cool place. In a week’s time take 
out the tongues, drain and tie them in 
skins like black puddings, and smoke 
them. 

When the tongues are required for 
table, boil them in water, with a little 
wine, a bunch of parsley, scallions, 
onions, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil. Serve 
them cold. 

PIGEONS.— Pigeons should be ex- 
tremely fresh ; when so, and in good or- 
der, they are plump and fat at the vent, 
and their feet pliable; but whenthey are 
stale, the vent is open, green, and 
withered. ‘Tame pigeons are considered 
preferable to the wild. { 

Pigeons @ 7’ Aurore.*—Put into a pan 
a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, 
a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and grated nut- 
meg, then your pigeons; set the pan on 
the fire, and brown the birds; then mix 
in half a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of 
consommeé ; boil it quickly, and add some 
mushrooms, and an onion stuck with 


a 


( 403 ) 


PIG 


cloves;,.in about a quarter of an hour 
take out the birds, reduce the sauce, add 
two eggs, take out the onion and bay- 
leaf, and pour it over the pigeons, and 
let them cool, and then stew them with 
mushrooms minced and mixed with the 
sauce; moisten the birds well with the 
batter, and cover them with bread 
crumbs, dip them in eggs beaten and 
seasoned, and bread them again. Fry 
your pigeons to a nice colour, and serve 
with fried parsley. 

Pigeons to Brotl.—When thoroughly 
cleaned, split the backs, pepper and salt 
them, then broil them very nicely; pour 
over them either stewed or pickled 
mushrooms, in melted butter, and serve 
as hot as possible. 

Prerons @ la Brunswick.*—Take half 
a dozen small pigeons, which braise be- 
tween slices of bacon, with a little lemon 
juice ; roast some truffles on hot ashes, 
and blanch whole artichoke bottoms ina 
little stock, Make a farce with veal 
sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacun, 
breasts of fowl or game, minced, and 
give these a few turns, with some good 
stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. 
Puta layer of this farce ona dish, then 
place the artichoke bottoms, in each of 
which stick a truffle, and between each 
a pigeon, and a slice of veal glazed on 
the latter; cover the whole with the re- 
mainder of the farce, and pour over it 
some veal gravy. 

Pigeons en Catsses.*—Prepare six pre- 
viously cooked small pigeons, ina similar 
way to quails en catsses. 

Prarons @ la Casserole.*—Truss your 
pigeons with the feet inwards, and having 
put some butter into a stewpan, lay in 
the pigeons, breasts downwards; as soon 
as it is melted, season them with salt, 
pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs; 
set the pan ona brisk fire, turn the birds 
every ten minutes for the space of half 
an hour, which will be sufficient to cook 
them; then put them ona dish. Take 
three-fourths of the butter from the pan, 
mix with the remainder a little flour, the 
juice ofa lemon, or two spoonsful of vine- 
gar and half a glass of water; boii these 
up twice, and then pour them on the 
birds. 

Picrons ¢2 Caul.*— Take some very 
young pigeons, and having trussed them, 
split them down the back, and fill them 
with a good farce; lay a thin slice of 
bacon over each half, and wrap them in 
a piece of caul, previously soaked in 
warm water}; bread them, and bake ina 
moderate oven. 

Picrons @ la Charmante.—Scald half 
a dozen small pigeons, and braise them 
with a few slices of bacon and lemon,a 


PIG 


bundle of herbs, a proper quantity of 
stock, pepper and salt. In thé meéan 
time lard three or four sweetbreads, 
which stew slowly in a littlé broth, with 
some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, 
two clovés, basil, and two ox three Scal- 
lions; as s00h as they are done, skim, 
strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze 
the sweetbreads with it; then lay them 
on a dish alternately with the pigeons, 
over which pour. a sauce made as fol- 
lows: puta little consommé into thé pan 
with the glaze, stir it round to gather 
what may adhere to the bottom and sides 
of the pan, then strain, and add more 
pepper and salt if requisite; squeeze in 
a little lemon-juice. Take care noné of 
the sauce goes on the sweéetbreads, as it 
would spoil the look of the glaze. 
Pretons (Chartreuse of ).* —Take a 
riumber of carrots and turnips, some of 
which cut into pieces the size of your 
finger, some into bits only an inch long, 
and the remainder (and they ought to be 
the largest) into farthings, blanch allina 
little salt and water; then drain and 
cook them in some consommté, blanch also 
some French beatis, young peas, let- 
tuces or cabbages ; when done, press out 
the water from the latter, drain the rest, 
and Jet them cool; then take a circular 
mould, line it completely with a white 
paper, well buttered; on the bottom of 
this place a layer of the carrots and tur- 
nips (in farthings), the beans and peas, 
round the sides of the mould ; place first, 
the other pieces of carrots and turnips, 
(properly intermixed), then the lettuces 
or cabbagés; in the centre of this put 
three pigeons poélés, cut in pieces. 
Make a smal! macedoine with what vege- 
tables may remain from the above; mix 
it with an allemande, and having reduced 
it, pottr it over the birds, so that it will 
fill up all the interstices and cover the 
whole with cabbages or lettuces ; keep it 
hot in the bain-marze ; do not turn it 
out till the moment it should be sent to 
table; drain off the water, and glaze it. © 
Prarons in Chipolata.*—Having pre- 
pared and trussed your pigeons, place 
them in a braising-pan between slices of 
bacon, with some ¢eal, two carrots, three 
onions, two bay-leaves, cloves, parsley, 
scallions, thyme, and a ladleful of stock ; 
simmer them for an hour; then drain 
and place them on a dish; mask witha 
chipolata. . 
PiGeons en Compéte.*—Truss and tie 
into proper form, three pigeons; puta 
piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it 
a dessert-spoonful ‘of flour, and make a 
youd, in which bréwn some slices of 
streaky bacon; pour on the pigeons a 
ladleful and a halfof water, with some 


{ 404 ) 


PiG 
parsley, scallions, 4 bay-leaf, mush 
rooms, Salt, ahd. Bébbet, stir. it well ii 
it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons 
are three parts dotie, put in some small 
onions, well picked, and previously done. 
up in alittle butter and drained. Lay 
the birds ia a dish; garnish with the 
onions and bacon. ae | “ey 
Prerons @ 1a Conti.*—Make a farce 
with the white meat of fowl or game, 
bacon, and crumb of bread pounded to- 
gether, and mixed with yolks of eggs, 
stuff your pigeons with this, truss, tie 
them in slices of bacon, and roast them 
gently ; lay toasts in the dripping-pan 
to receive what falls from them ; serve 
the birds on the toasts. cxlasiins tel 
Piaroné en Coguilies.*—Take thrée or 
four pigeons, put thém into 4 deep dish 
with some lard, cover them close, and 
place the dish on hof ashes; take seme 
scollop-shells, ling them with thin slices 
of bacon, and when the pigéons are done, 
put one in each of the shells, and cover 
them with puff-paste, put them intoa 
gentle oven for a quarter of an hour. 
Prerons @ la Crapaudine.* — Tiuss 
your pigéons with the feét inwards, cut 
them open from the énd of the breast to 
the crop; but do not separate them; 
flatten the backs, séason and broil them, 
Boil together a dessert-spoonful of shred 
shalots, three spoonsful of vinegar, half 
a glass of water, salt and pares 3 pour 
this satice over the broiled pigeons, and 
serve them. _ ; Pike = 
Picrons d@ la Ceuiliére.*—Put a good 
bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt, 
and pepper, into a pan, in which give 
half a. dozen pigeons a few turns; let 
them be browned, then put them intoa 
stewpan between slices of bacon, with 
the above butter, &c. arid some poé/ée, 
set them on the fire for a quarter of an 
hour, then drain and serve them with a 
cray-fish betweén each over a green Hol- 
landaise. fie sh a ae 
Pigeons & la Fidne.—Cut some pufl- 
paste into éight pieces, each of whic 
press into a scallop-shell to take the 
form, and bake them; in the mean time 
braise four pigeons till about half done, 
then take them out, dip each in a battate 
and fry them of a nice colour; and the 
paste being baked, remove them from 
the shélls, place the pigeons into these 
paste-shells, and cover every bird with 
another. AP seg re 
Prerons, Fricasseé of.*—Cut some 
young pigeons into quarters, which 
blanch for a quarter of an hour in warm 
water, then dry them well, and give them 
a few turns in some melted butter. Add 
half a pint of good stock, a little pepper 
and salt, and when nearly done, half 





PIG 


a glass of champagne, a few morels 
dressed in veal gravy ; serve your fricas- 
see very hot. 

1GEONS, Fricassee of, with Blood.*— 
Take the blood of as many pigeons as you 
may wish to use, squeeze into it a little 
lemon-juice, and set it aside. Prepare 
your birds as above; when nearly done, 
add some veal gravy, and having mixed 
two or three yolks of eggs with the blood, 
stir it into the fricassee a little at a time. 
Serve very bot. 

PriaEons, Fricassee of (white).—Take 
as many pigeons as your dish will require 
(and cut them or not according to their 
size), put them into a stewpan with a 
good piece of butter, a slice of ham, 
chopped mushrooms, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, a bay-leaf, two clovea, and thyme: 
when they have soaked about twenty 
minutes, add a small quantity of stock, 
a little salt and whole pepper; set them 
on a slow fire to simmer, reduce the 
broth, take out the ham and herbs, make 
a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and 
some cream, make it quite hot without 
boiling, add a little lemon-juice, and 
serve. The pigeons may be garnished 
with sweetbreads, artichoke-bottoms, &c. 
These, however, must be scalded before 
they are put to the fricassee. 

Picrtons au Gratin. — Prepare and 
scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread 
and two fat livers (also scalded), two or 
three artichoke-bottoms parbviled, a few 
mushrooms, a slice of ham, parsley, 
scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, 
a bay-leaf, two cloves ; fry these lightly 
in a proper quantity of butter, then add 
gravy, a glass of white wine, a little 
stock, whole pepper and salt; let the 
whole simmer slowly, and whea done, 
skim it well ; pour half the sauce into a 
dish that will bear the heat, and set it 
on a brisk fire to form the gratin, then 
put the pigeons, &c. and let it stand ; 
squeeze a little lemon-juice into the re- 
muinder of the sauce, and pour it over 
the whole, and serve. 

Pigeons, Hotchpoich of. — Take two 
or three good sized pigeons, truss and boil 
them over a slow fire in some stock with 
carrots, parsnips, celery, small onions 
(all previously scaided) parsley, shalots, 
thyme, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt. 
When done, place the pigeons in a deep 
dish, with the roots, &c. arranged 
around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. 

Pigeons in Jelly.—Pick two very nice 
pigeons, and make them look as well as 
possible, by singeing, washing, and 
cleaning the heads well. Leave the 
heads and the feet on, but the nails must 
be clipped close to the claws. Roast 
them of a very nice brown, and when 


( 405 ) 


PIG 


done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the 
bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, 
and with it half-fill a bowl of such a size 
as shall be proper to turn down on the 
dish you mean it to be served in, When 
the jelly and the birds are cold, see that 
no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay 
them upside down in the jelly. Before 
the rest of it begins to set, pour it over 
the birds, so as to_ be three inches above 
the feet. This should be done at least 
four and twenty hours before serving. 
This dish has a very handsome appear- 
ance in the middle range of a second 
course ; or, when served with the jelly 
roughed large, it makes a’side or corner 
dish, its size being then less. The head 
should be kept up as if alive, by tying 
the neck with some thread, and the legs 
must be bent as if the ‘pigeon sat upon 
them. i 
Prarons en Macedoine.* — Having 
thoroughly cleaned four young tame 
pigeons, put them to soak for a whole 
day, then beat up a pound of butter with 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, with 
which stuff the pigeons; truss, and rub 
them over with butter and lemon, place 
themin astewpan between two slices of 
bacon,add some consommé. When done, 
drain and serve them ona macedotne of 
vegetables. 
Prerons Masjueraded.— Cut two or 
three large pigeons in quarters, which 
braise with a few slices of bacon, and 
peeled lemon, a little consommé, sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, and a couple of 
cloves ; take a large eel, and cut it into 
as many pieces as you have quarters 5 
split these open, take out the bone, lard 
the outside with bacon, and boil them 
in a little veal cullis; as soon as the fish 
is done, reduce the cullis, and with it 
glaze each piece of eel, and having laid 
the quarters of pigeon on your dish, place 
a bit of eel on every one, and serve with 
any sauce you may think proper. 
Pigeons with Marrow.—Truss three or 
four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff 
them with a farce made of beef-marrow, 
two anchovies, shalots, parsley, tarragon- 
leaves (all shred very small), seasoned 
with pepper and nutmeg, and bound to- 
gether with the yolks of two eggs. Wrap 
the birds in slices of bacon and paper, 
roast and serve them with a sauce made 
as follows :—takea little cullis, a glass of 
white wine, the same of steck, two slices 
of peeled lemon, some bruised rocam- 
boles, salt, and pepper; boil this for 
twenty or thirty minutes, till of a good 
consistence, strain, add a little butter, 
simmer a minute or two, and then pour 
it into the dish under the pigeons. 
Piczons @. la Monarque.*—Take six 


PIG 


young pigeons, as near of a size as pOSssi- 
ble, and having peppered and trussed 
them properly, heat three quarters of a 
pound of butter, to which add the juice 
of two or three lemons and a little salt; 
put the pigeons into this, give them a few 
turns, but be careful not to let the birds 
take the least colour ; in a few minutes 
take ‘them out, and having completely 
lined a stewpan ‘with bacon, lay the 
pigeons init (the legs towards the centre 
of the pan), pour in the whole of the but- 
ter, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of 
consommé, add a seasoned bouquet; cover 
them ‘with slices of bacon, and a round 
of buttered paper; set them on a brisk 
fire, which Jessen as soon as it boils, and 
put hot ashes at the top. When suffi- 
ciently done, drain them and put them 
into asilver dish over a ragoit @ la Tou- 
louse; between each bird a blanched 
cock’s-comb, and a cray-fish, and on 
each a veal sweetbread. 

Pigeons a la Montmorence.*—Having 
well cleaned the pigeons, fill them with 
any good farce you think proper, wrap 
each in bacon, place them in small moulds 
exactly their size, cover them very close, 
and put them in a moderate oven for three 
hours; then take them out of the moulds, 
pour some rich consommé over, ‘and 
serve them very hot. 

Prerons with Oniors.—Cut a dozen 
large onions into dice, which put into a 
stewpan with plenty of butter; set them 
on the fire, and keep stirring till they are 
done; when cold, mix with them the 
yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, 
two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pound- 
ed aniseed, salt, and pepper. in the 


mean time, having braised some pigeons, | 
cover each completely with the above | 
preparation, and then in veal eaul, which | 


fix together with white of egg; roll them 


pour a few drops of oil or melted butter 


over, and bake them. Serve them with | 
@ salice composed of cullis and con- | 


Somme. 

Prérons like Ortolans.*—Cover your 
piso ns with small slices of bacon, placed 
ike scales, so completely that the feet 
can barely be seen; give them a few 
turns in a sauce @ a/elets, and then 
fasten them to a spit, and roast before 
a clear fire ; a very short time is suffi- 
cient. 

Piatons en Papilictes.*—Your pigeons 
being ready, cut off the feet, and truss 
them with the legs inwards, split them 
down the back, flatten and season them 
with salt, pepper, and pounded aroma- 
tics $ put into a saucepan a good piece of 
butter, a quarter of a pound of grated 
bacon, four dessert spoonsful of oi], and 


( 406 ) 





PIG 


the pigeons; set them on the fire fora 
quarter of an hour, then take out the 
pigeons, and. put to the butter three des- 
sert spoonsful of mushrooms, ove of sha- 
lots, and one of parsley (all shred smal!) 
salt, and spices, give them a few turns, 
and pour the sauce over the birds ; have 
ready ‘some square pieces of paper, oil 
them, and foid a half pigeon in each 
piece; about half an hour before dinner, 
boil them over aslow fire. Serve with 
a clear gravy. . oat ee 

Prarons, with Parmesan.—Take the 


livers of as many pigeons as you intend 
to dress, mince them with grated bacon, 
chopped mushirooms, shalots and parsley 5 
mix them together, stuff the birds ‘with 


jt, and put them in astewpan, with somé 


slices of veal; cover them with bacon; 
adda few Spoonsful of broth; Set them 
on aslow fire to simmer. When done, 
take out the pigeons, and put in, a little 
cullis; give 1ta boil, and then strain it. 
Put some of this sauce into a dish for 
table; grate Parmesan cheese into it, 
and then put in the birds, set the dish on 
hot ashes 3 pour more sauce, grate cheese 
over, and colour it with a salamander, | 
Prerons Pickled.—Bone them; turn 
the inside out, and lard it. Season with 
a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; 
then turn them again, and tie the neck 
and rump with thread. Put them into 
boiling water; let them boil a minute or 
two to plump: after this, take them out, 
and thoroughly dry them; then Put 
them into a pickle, which should be made 
of equal quantities of white wine, and 
white wine vinegar, with white pepper 
and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, 
and a few bay-leaves. hen it boils ups 
put the pigeons into it. Ifthey are small, 
a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to 


: | do them}; but if they are large they will 
in bread-crumbs, place them ona dish, | 


require twenty minutes. Then take 
them out, wipe them, and let them cool. 
As soon as the pickle is cold, take off the 
fat, and put them in again. Keep them 
in a stone jar, tied down closely, so that 
the air may be excluded. _ Saini 
Instead of larding, put into it some 
stuffing, made of hard yolks of éggs and 
marrow, in equal quantities, with sweet 
herbs, pepper, Salt, and inace.  __ 
Piceon Pie—Chop some parsley and 
lemon-thyme, with a few mushrooms; 
stew these if a little butter, into whic 
put half a dozen yoting pigeons, wit 
pepper and salt in their insides, and their 
ie turned ii 5 stew them for a few 
minutes and turn them; when they be- 
gin to fry, put in Sufficient consommé to 
cover them, in Which let them stew till 
they are well dane; take them from the 
fire to cool; ii the meantime make 4 





PIG 


good puff paste, part of. which roll out, 
and ‘place round the edge of a dish; lay 
the pigeonsin with the yolks of four eggs, 
boiled hard, and pour over them half of 
the liquor they were stewed in; add a 
little pepper and salt, then lay on the top 
paste, trimming it neatly round, the 
Same as you would any other pie; on 
the top form a star of leaves, with a hole 
in the centre; egg it tightly over, and 
put it to bake ina moderate oven, taking 
care that it has not too much colour; 
when done, add to the liquor that re- 
mained from the pigeons, a little butter 
sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on 
the pie. Serve it hot, either for a re- 
move or side dish. 

_Pigrens Potted.—Be very particular 
that they are quite fresh; clean them 
thoroughly, and season them with salt 
and pepper lay them close together in 
a small deep pan, for the smaller the 
surface, and the more closely they are 
packed, the less quantity of butter will 
be required; cover them with butter, 
then tie them over with very thick paper, 
and bake them. When cold, put them to 
dry in pots that will hold two or three in 
each, and pour butter over them, using 
that which was baked as part. Observe 
that the butter should be pretty thick 
over them, if they are done for keeping. 
The pigeons would lie closer, and want 
less butter, if they were boned, and put 
into the pot in an oval form. ‘They may 
be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made 
with, veal, bacon, &c., and they will 
eat.extremely well. If a high seasoning 
is approved of, add mace, allspice, and 
a little cayenne pepper, before baking. 

Pigeons, en. Poularde.* —Choose as 
large pigeons as you can, which fill with 
a, good farce, mixed with rich cream; 
truss them like fowls, lard with bacon, 
and wrap each in caul ; fasten them ona 
spit, and roast them; take care they are 
not too highly coloured. Serve with any 
sauce you please. 

Pigrons, @ la Provengale.*—-Lard your 
pigeons with pieces of anchovies; put 
some olive oil into a pan, and when it 
boils, give the birds a few turns in. it 
over a slow fire, with two dozen small 
onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of 
chervil; moisten them with equal quan- 
tities of stock and white wine, and leave 
it to boil slowly ; when nearly done, add 
five or six small sausages, and some 
lemon-juice. Skim off ali the fat, and 
serve very hot. 

‘Picrons to Roast.—Let the pigeons be 
thoroughly cleaned, leave in the livers, 
truss them, and puta stuffing into the 
crops, the same as for fillet of veal; put 


them. down to roast, and singe them 


( 407) 


PIG 


well; about a quarter of an hour will be 
sufficient to do them; froth them with 
butter; serve them garnished with water-. 
cresses, good gravy under them, and 
parsley and butter in a boat. 

Picrons, with Roots.* — Braise your 
chickens as directed for chzpolata. Serve. 
them with glazed lettuces round, and 
petites racines in the centre. 

Picrons, Salmi of.*—Cut up three or, 
four cold. roasted pigeons, and put them. 
into a stewpan, with a little veal and: 
ham, five or six carrots, and an old par- 
tridge; let them stand on a.slow fire till 
they stick to the pan; then moisten 
them with Champagne, good consummé, 
veal gravy, a.bay-leaf, salt and. pepper, 
cover it close, and reduce it. When done 
(and a short time is sufficient), serve it 
very hot with truffles, morels, siiced 
lemons, and, if you like it, a few larks. 

Pierons, aw Sang.*—Take the rem-. 


‘nants of any kind of game you may have, 


mince the tenderest parts with some, 
streaky bacon, parsley, salt, spices, and. 


‘alittle lard ; line a small stewpan with 


thin slices of bacon, lay the farce on this, 
thicken it with some stock, and the 
blood of as many pigeons as you intend. 
to dress; when it.is of the proper consis- 
tence, cover the pigeons with itand slices 
of bacon; set them on the fire, and as 
scon as they are done, dish the birds, 
and pour the sauce over them. 

Picton Soup. — Take .three plump 
pigeons, truss them as for boiling; run, 
a skewer through the head and neck, to- 
keep it upright; then scald and _ boil. 
them in broth and veal gravy, to which, 
add roots and herbs, cut. into small 
pieces as for potage @ la Julienne ; sea- 
son the whole well, and stew it overa 
slow fire. When done, pour the soup 
into a tureen, and place the pigeons in 
with the heads upwards, as if swimming, 

Piazons Stewed,— Make a stuffing 
with livers, parboiled and bruised, a bit 
of butter, a few bread-crumbs, pepper, 
salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet 
herbs, chopped, and yolk of egg; fill the 
pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast, 
or fry them, put them into some good 
gravy, or beef broth, with an onion stuck 
with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
slice of lemon ; let them stew very gently 
till tender ; strain the sauce, skim off the 
fat; put to it pickled mushrooms, cay- 
enue, foreemeat balls, hard yolks of egge. 
The pigeons may be larded. 

Piarons Stuffed.*-~Make a farce with 
any remnants of fowl you may happen to 
have, some veal sweetbreads, truffles 
(all chopped small) pounded bacon, salt, 
pepper, and yolks of eggs: fill the pigeons 


‘with this, put them into a pan in some 


PIG 


meited butter; in a quarter of an hour 
cover the pan close, and let them stand 
till done, turning them occasionally. 

Picrons, Timbale of.—Take as many 
young pigeons as you intend to have ¢zm- 
bales, and give them a few turns with 
any materials yon please. Make a paste 
with flour, beef suet (sliced small), yolks 
of eggs, salt and water, keep it rather 
firm; line your moulds (havipg buttered 
them well) with this, and put a pigeon 
in each, cover them with paste, and bake 
them ; when done, make a small hole in 
the top of every one, through which, 
pour some veal gravy; serve them hot. 

Picrons (Timbale of) au Fumet.— 
Make a farce with the meat ofa hare or 
rabbit that is very high; some ham, 
calf’s udder, truffles, or mushrooms, 
scallions, snalots(all’shred small), grated 
bacon, spices, and yolks of eggs. Linea 
timbale mould completely, with thin 
slices of bacon, on which lay about three- 
fourths of the above farce ; make a hole 
in the centre, and pour into it a cold ra- 
gout of pigeons, put the remainder of the 
farce over, and cover the whole with 
slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, 
take off the bacon, drain away the fat, 
and having turned it over, make a little 
hole in the top, into which pour any 
gauce vou may think proper, adding to it 
a little lemon-juice, and serve. 

Picrons en Tortue.* — Take half a 
dozen very small pigeons, pick and scald 
them; leave on the pinions, claws, and 
heads; but cut off the bills. Take as 
many short and very thick cucumbers, 
make a hole in the end of each, through 
which scoop out all the inside, and hav- 
ing blanched them about five minutes, 
put a pigeon into each cucumber; have 
the head, &c. about an inch beyond the 
cucumber, so as to resemble a turtle. 
Have the same of slices of fillet of veal 
(previously soaked in a marinade), on 
each of which, place a pigeon ; put these 
between slices of bacon on a stewpan ; 
dilute them with veal gravy, and stew 
them gently; when done, take them out 
carefully, and serve on the veal. 

Pigeons to Truss.—Pigeons are drawn 
in the same manner as fowls, except that 
the livers should be left in, as a pigeon 
has no gall; skewer them the same as 
fowls, fwith stuffing, as for fillet of veal, 
put where the crop was taken out. 

Prerons, @ la Venitienne.* — Choose 
two small fat pigeons, and having trussed 
them, tie them mto an oval form, place 
them in a stewpan on slices of bacon, 
with sweet herbs, morels, artichoke 
bottoms, and sweeibreads (all minced), 
alittle butter, equal quantities of stock 
and white wine, veal gravy, and a small 


( 408°) 


PIG 


piece of garlic tied in a bit of cloth; let 
these simmer over a slow fire till suffi- 
ciently done; then take off all the fat, 
and serve the pigeons with all the above 
ingredients. 

Picrons (Cutlets of) a ? Armagnac.* 
— Take the breasts of half a dozen 
pigeons, mince, and then pound them ; 
pound also an equal quantity of calf’s 
udder, and a rather less proportion of 
panada, adding to the latter mushrooms, 
shalots and parsley, and other herbs; 
all being well pounded separately, beat 
them up together, adding two eggs to 
bind it. Butter’a baking-tin, and spread 
the farce all over it, about an inch in 
thickness ; when quite cold, cut it into 
the form of cutlets, without, however, 
detaching it from the tin, which place on 
a stove to warm the butter. ‘Take as 
many pinion bones as you have cutlets, 
scrape them well, and stick one into the 
end of each cutlet, dip them first in 
beaten eggs, and then in bread crumbs ; 
fry them slowly. Dish them in mzroton, 
with fried parsley in the centre. 

Picrons (Cutlets of ) a la Bourgeoise.* 
—Divide your pigeons in halves, from 
the neck to the rump; turn the foot 
inwards, so that it may appear like the 
bone of a chop; season them with salt 
and pepper, and dip each, first in melted 
butter, and then in bread crumbs; broil 
them slowly, and serve them with a clear 
gravy or shalot sauce. 

Pierons (Wild) & ? Etouffade.* — 
Take three wild pigeons, and lard with 
bacoa, rolled in salt, pepper, parsley, 
shalots, basil, (all shred fine), spices and 
aromatic herbs; then put the birds into 
a stewpan between slices of bacon; add 
a thin one of ham, two onions stuck with 
two cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned 
bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little 
consommé ; let them be thoroughly done, 
then dish them ; strain the sauce over, 
and serve them. 

Piceons (Wild) en Marinade.*—Y our © 
pigeons being ready for dressing, cnt 
them in halves or quarters, soak them in 
a light marinade; when they have lain 
in this for some time, drain, and dip 
them in batter, fry them of a nice colour, 
and serve them with fried parsley. 

Picrons (Wild) Poélés.*—Take three 
or four wild pigeons, truss them with 
their feet inwards; line a stewpan with 
slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a sea- 
soned bouguet, two onions stuck with 
cloves, a carrot cut iu slices, a glass of 
white wine, and a little consommé ; put 
in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set 
the whole on a brisk fire; as soon as it 
boils, place it in a stove with a moderate 
fire under and over, and let them stand 





PIN 


three quarters of an hour; then drain 


-and serve them with a pocvrade. 
Pieron (Wo00d).—The wood pigeon is 


large, and the flesh of a dark colour; 
they are chosen by the same rules as the. 
If the wood pigeon is pro- 


tame pigeon. 
‘perly kept, and not over roasted, the 


flavour is equal to teal. They should be 


served with a good gravy. 


PINE Apple Chips.—Pare and trim a 


pine-apple, divide, and slice each half 
into looet: a quarter of an inch thick; 
take half the weightof the fruit in powder 
Sugar: lay the slices in a basin, with 
sugar strewed between ; let it stand till 
the sugar be dissolved, then set it on a 
moderate fire to simmer till the chips be 
Fp clear, when set it by. The next 

ay remove all the syrup froin the slices, 
place them on glasses, and dry them in a 
gentle oven. 

Pine Apple in a Compote.—Turn off 
the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, but not 
too thin ; have some sugar on the fire ina 
sSugar-pan, into which put the slices of 
pine, and let them boil gently till the 
syrup is tolerably thick, then take out 
the pine, and lay it on a dish 5 mix with 
the sugar, the juice of a couple of lemons, 
and pour it over the pine. 

Pine Apple Fromage Bavarois. * — 
Pare, and cut a pine apple into small 
pieces, which boil in halfa pound of clari- 
fied sugar, and when the fruit is reduced 
to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, add 
the isinglass, and proceed as directed. 
(See Fromage Bavaroise). 

Pine Apple Ice.*—~ Put into a pan a 
pound of clarified sugar, boiled to petit 
ssé, in which jay a fine fresh pine-apple, 
nicely trimmed; let it remain three 
hours, then add the juice of two lemons ; 
strain this preparation through a bolting, 
pressing it with a wooden spoon, that 
as much of the pulp may be rubbed 
through with it as possible; add a glass 
of water, and freeze as usual. (See Jce). 

Pine Apple Jelly.*—Pare, and cut a 
fine ripe pine into quarters, trim each 
quarter of a round and long form; take a 
pound of elarified sugar, boil it to ssé, 
add a pint of cold water, let it boil, skim, 
and then put in the pine; when it has 
boiled ten minutes, take out the round 
pieces, and put them aside, leaving the 
rest twenty minutes longer; then strain 
the liquor through a tammy, with the 
juice of three lemons, (also strained), 
and two ounces of clarified isinglass. 
Pour some of this jelly in a mould, cut 
the pine into small pieces, arrange them 
on it, and when set, pour on more jelly, 
then more pieces, and more jelly, and so 
on, till the mould is full. 

Pine Apple Jelly.—Puta pound of clari- 


( 409 ) 






PIN 

fied sugar, boiled to the smooth degree, 
and nearlya pint of cold water together on 
the fire; take a good ripe pine, pare off 
the rind, cut it into four quarters, and 
trim each quarter into round and long 
piecea; as soon as the sugar begins to 
boil, and has been skimmed, put in the 
pine; when it has boiled about ten mi- 
nutes, take out the round pieces, lay 
them on a plate, and let the other pieces 
remain to boil twenty minutes longer. 
Take the rind off three lemons, squeeze 
the juice through a silk sieve into a basin, 
and when the pine has boiled enough, 
pour the liquor through a sieve to it, 
with two ounces of clarified isinglass. 
Pat a little jelly in the mould first, then 
cut the pieces of pine into small round 
bits; when that is set, put more jelly, 
then more pine, and so continue till the 
mouid is full. 

Pryr Apple Transparent Jelly.*¥—Take 
a fine ripe, but perfectly sound pine- 
apple, cut it into small pieces, which 
throw into boiling syrup; when the fruit 
has had a few boils, take it from the fire ; 
and_as soon as it becomes cool, strain it: 
add a sufficient quantity of caramel, to 
give ita yellow tinge, then the juice of 
two lemons, the isinglass, and finish as 
usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly). 

Pint Apple (Green) Preserved.-Choose 
a good-shaped pine, and having let itsoak 
five or six days in salt and water, put it 
into a saucepan with vine-leaves over and 
under it; fill the saucepan with the salt 
and water; and let it stand on a slow fire 
till the fruit becomes green, then put it 
intoa jar, and cover it with a thin cool 
syrup. The next day, drain off the sy- 
rup, give it a boil, and then pour it over 
the pine-apple again, with great care; 
leave it thus for two months, after which 
make a rich syrup with two or three 
pounds of sugar; addalittle ginger, boil 
and skim it well, and when nearly cold, 
pour itover the pine (previously drained); 
tie the jar over tight to exclude the air. » 

PINKS, Fromage Bavarois.* — Take 
two ounces of pink flowers (the small red 
sweet scented ones), throw them into 
half a pound of clarified sugar (boiling) 
with ten cloves (bruised), and a pinch of 
cochineal ; cover the infusion, and before 
it is quite cold, strain, and add to it six 
drachms of clarified isinglass; stir and 
ice itas usual; put the cream to it when 
it begins to thicken, and finish as direct- 
ed. (See Fromage Bavarois.) 

Pinks, Ratafia of.*—Take a gailon 
anda half of brandy, a quart of clear 
river water, three pounds of sugar, two 
pounds of red pink flowers, and adrachm 
of cloves. Remove all the inferior parts 
of we flowers, and infuse the rest with 


PIS” 


the cloves in the brandy for two months, 
when strain it through a linen cloth ; dis- 
solve the sugar in the water, then mix it 
with the brandy ; filter and bottle it. 

PIPER, Baked.* — The fish, when 
thoroughly emptied and cleaned, is stuff- 
ed with the same ingredients, and dressed 
like baked jack or pike. 

Prirers, fo Dress. —They may be baked 
or boiled with a pudding well seasoned. 
Ifthey are baked, a large cupful of rich 
broth should be put intothe dish, and 
when done, take the broth, some essence 
of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and 
boil them together for sauce. 

Prver (Fillets of )a la Sefton.—Take 
the flesh from a large piper, and cut into 
slices, all the same shape ; put these into 
a pan with clarified butter, pepper, and 
salt; fry them lightly, and when done, 
serve them; make a sauce as follows :— 
put four spoonsful of the best vinegar, a 
small quantity of tarragon, and twenty 
peppercorns into a stewpan, set it on the 
fire, and let it stand till reduced to a 
fourth ; then add two spoonsful of con- 
sommé, six of sauce tournée, and reduce 
these also over a large fire; strain and 
replace it; when it boils put in_ the 
yoiks of twoeggs, a bit of butter, and stir 
jt well ; pour this over the fillets of piper 
when sent to table. This sauce must be 
quite white; but if, by any chance, it 
should be browned, add a small quantity 
of cream. Season with salt and cayenne. 

PISTACHIO Blanemange.*—Blanch 
four ounces: of pistachios, pound them 
with halfan ounce of preserved cedrat, 
dilute the paste with a glass of water, 
and then extract the milk by squeezing 
it very tight ina napkin; mix with the 
milk six ounces of powder-sugar, and 
an ounce of isinglass. Takea pound of 
sweet almonds, pound them to a fine 
paste, which dilute with three glasses of 
water, extract the milk as above; divide 
this into two parts, putting to one part 
the pistachio milk, and a small quantity 
of spinach essence ; and tothe other, six 
ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of 
warm water, and half an ounce of isin- 
glass, and finish it according to the di- 
rections for /’éole¢ Jelly. 

Pistacuio Biscottes.*—Mix together 
in a pan a quarter of a pound of powder- 
sugar, the same of flour, well dried and 
sifted, and the yolks of five eggs; beat 
them for ten minutes, add two ounces of 
whole pistachios, and then spread it on 
a buttered baking-tin ten inches long 
and five wide; lay it of an equal thick- 
ness, strew over two ounces of pistachios, 
eut crosswise; put this in a gentle oven 
for forty or fifty minutes; then take it 
out, and cutit into pieces, two inches 


( 410 ) 


PIS 


and three eighths long, and half an inck 
wide; replace them in the oven to dry. 
Almonds or filberts may be used instead. 


Pistacuio Biscuits.*~—Take a pound 


of pistachio nuts, two ounces of sweet al- 
monds, the whites of sixteen, and yolks 
of eight eggs, two ounces of flour, anda 
pound of powder-sugar. Blanch an 
pound the pistachios and almonds, moist- 
ening occasionally with white of egg; 
beat the whites and yolks separately, with 
the latter half the sugar, and some grated 
iemon-peel; when both are thoroughly 
beaten join them together, beating con- 
Stantly, and as you doso, siftover them 
the flour and remamder of the sugar, 
then the almonds and pistachios. Have 
some paper,cases ready, into which pour 
your preparation; glaze, and bake the 
biscuits in a moderately heated oven. 

Pisracnio Biscuits, Soufiées.*--Blanch 
a quarter of a pound of pistachios, halfof 
which cut in slices, and the other half 
mince small. Whip the whites of three 
eggs very firm, and then mix with them 
the sliced pistachios and half a pound of 
sifted sugar; bave ready a number of 
small paper cases about an inch square ; 
put your preparation into them, taking 
care they are not more than half full, 
sprinkle powder-sugar over, and as soon 
as that is dissolved, strew the minced pis- 
tachios, and put them in a gentle -oven, 
and colour them of a reddish yellow. | 

Pistracnio Cannellons.* -— Peel six 
ounces of pistachios, and six bitter al- 
monds, and pound them, with an ounce 
of preserved cedrat, and a little white of 
egg, to a fine paste, to which add a 
quarter of a pound of powder-sugar to 
make it tolerably firm. Roll this paste on 
a sheet of paper to about the size of your 
finger, cut it into pieces two inches long, 
dip them into batter, and fry your caz- 
nellons to a nice colour, drain and sprinkle 
them with powder-sugar, and serve them. 

PrsracuHio Cream au Bain-marie.*— 
Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios 
pound them with an ounce of preserve 
cedrat, and eight bitter almonds; when 
reduced to a fine paste, put it into six 
glasses of boiling miik; cover the infu- 
sion, but before it is quite cold squeeze 
the milk through a cloth. Mix ina pan 
ten ounces of powder-sugar with aspoon- 
ful of spinach essence strained; then add 
a whole egg, ten yolks, and a grain ef 
salt; pour the infusion to this, a little at 
a time, stir it well, run it through a 
sieve, and finish according to rule. (See 
Cream au Bain marie.) 

Pisracnio Cream Ice.*—Blanch and 
wash half a pound of pistachios, and when 
perfectly ury, pound them toa fine paste 
withalittiecreamand lemon-peel; put this 





PIS 


paste into a skillet with the yolks of nine 
eggs, and three quarters of a pound of 
powder-sugar, stir it in well, and add, by 
degrees, a quart of cream, and set it on 
a slow fire to simmer gently, and when 
sufficiently done, colour it with a little 
spinach green; then strain it, and when 
cold, ice it in the usual way. 

Pisracuio Cream Patissiére.*—Peel a 
- quarter of a pound of pistachios, wash, 
and then pound them with an ounce of 
preserved cedrat, and ten hitteralmonds; 
with this paste mix two spoonsfuls of spi- 
nach essence strained, six ounces of 
powder-sugar, four of filbert, or other 
macaroons, and thecream properly pre- 
pared (see Cream Pétissiére); beat it all 
up together, and finish as directed. 

Pisracnio, Whipped Cream.* — Your 
cream being whipped as usual (see Whip- 
ped Cream), mix with it six ounces of 
“‘powder-sugar, two spoonsful of double 
rose or orange-flower water, dress your 
eream in a pyramidal form, and having 
peeled a quarter of a pound of pistachios, 
cut them in pieces, lengthwise, and stick 
Ln lightly on the surface of your pyra- 
mi 


- Pistacnios, Fromage Bavarois of.*— 
Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, 
and being well washed and drained, 
pound them with an ounce of preserved 
cedrat, or the rind of a lemon rasped on 
sugar, and eight bitter almonds blanched ; 
when these are reduced to a fine paste, 
add to it two glasses of hot milk, and half 
a pound of powder-sugar; let this stand 
for about half an hour, then strain and 
add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a 
sufficient quantity of spinach essence to 
make it of a delicate green colour; put 
your preparation into a vessel set on ice, 
and when it begins to thicken, mix a 
whipped cream with it and finish it. (See 
Fromage Bavarois.) 

Pistacnios Glacées, a la Royale.*¥— 
Pee] three ounces of pistachios, dry them 
a little at the mouth of the oven; when 
cold, glaze and finish them in the same 
manner as filberts, and almonds. (See the 
‘yecipes.) These however should be 
grouped in sixes and eights. 

Pisracuios, Gdteau of.*—Set half a 

int of milk on the fire, and mix with it 
a sufficient quantity of flour to make it 
the consistence of thick cream; when 
done, add to it aquarter of a pound of 

istachios, the same of sweet almonds, 

oth blanched and pounded to a fine 
paste, a pinch of dried orange-flowers, 
three quarters of a pound of powder- 
sugar, four whole eggs, put in one ata 
time, the yolks of. six, and a quarter of 
a pound of melted butter; stir all these 
ingredients well, and having whipped the 


( All ) 


PIS. 


six whites, add them lightly, colour it 
with a little spinach green, and pour the 
whole preparation into a well buttered 
mould; put it intoa hot oven, and bake 
for three quarters of an hour, then draw 
it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. 

Pistacuio, small Gdteaux.* — Make 
three quarters of a pound of puff-paste, 
to which give ten turns, and roll it into 
two layers, each thirteen inches long, 
and eight wide, put one of these on a 
baking-tin (previously wetted) spread 
over it, of an equal thickness, a cold pis- 
tachio cream to within three quarters of 
an inch of the edges, moisten them, and 
cover the cream with the other layer; 
press the two layers together, dorez the 
top lightly, and with the point of a knife 
mark on it seven lines, each two anda 
7 aa inchesapart; across these, mark 

ve lines, three inches apart, which will 
make twenty-four cakes} put it into a 
brisk oven, but do not glaze till the un- 
der side of the paste is ofa clear yellow. 
When cold, divide the cakes according to 
the lines, and trim them neatly. ‘ 

If you wish tu have there géteaux still 
more delicate, strew over them, before 
they are baked, either almonds or filberts, 
blanched and chopped small, and mixed 
with sugar and white of egg. 

Pistacuio Jce.*—Take three pints of 
milk and one pint of cream, halfa pound 
of pistachios, which blanch and pound to 
a fine paste, adding milk ta them occa- 
sionally to faethe their oiling; when 
well pounded, dilute the paste with half 
the remaining portion of the milk, and 
squeeze it through acloth, wringing us 
tight as possible. Put a saucepan on the 
fire, in which isthe cream and the rest 
of the milk, a pound of sugar and the 
rind of a lemon grated ; stir these ingre- 
dients over the fire till tolerably thick 3 
then add the pistachio milk, give the 
whole one boil, and strain it. When 
quite cold, colour it with spinach essence, 
and freeze itas directed. (See Jce.) 

PisracHio Marchpane.*—Put a pound 
anda half of pistachios into a mortar, 
pound them, moistening with white of 
egg, to a very fine paste; in the mean- 
time clarify the same quantity of sugar, 
boil it to petit boulé ; then take the pan 
from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir 
them together well, replace the pan en 
hot ashes, continually stirring, till the 
paste is of a proper consistence, then: 
pour it on a slab well sprinkled with 
sugar; a8 soon as itis cold, cut it into 
whatever forms your fancy may dictate. 

Pistacnio Meringues.*—Take a quar- 
ter of a pound of pistachio nuts, three 
ounces of powder-sugar, and the whites 
of areata blanch the pistachios, and 


PIS 


having dried them thoroughly in a steve 
or oven, pound them with white of egg 
to a very smooth paste. Beat up the 
whites of eggs, add the sugar, and set 
them on hot ashes for a short time, re- 
moving the pan occasionally, and stirring 


constantly; then add the pounded pista- | 
| pound of drieche paste with half a glass 
| of Madeira wine, and then stir into it 
three ounces of powder-sugar, and two 
ounces of dry currants: spread this pre~ — 


chios, and when the whole is thoroughly 
incorporated, put some sheets of paper 
on tin plates, and lay the meringues with 
a spoon, half an inch apart; sprinkle 
very finely sifted sugar over, and bake 
them in a cooloven; when done, raise 
them from the paper with a knife, place 
them on sieves in a stove, to preserve 
them dry. 

Pisracnio Petits Fours.*— Put into a 
pan half a pound of powder-sugar, half 
the white of a large egg, and a sufficient 
quantity of spinach essence strained, to 
tinge the glaze of a delicate green; add 
a few drops of essence of lemon, and beat 
wy the whole for a few minutes, when the 
glaze will be tolerably firm, but smooth ; 
roll it in slips about the thickness of a 
little finger; cut these into dice, which 
roll in the hollow of your hand, taking 
care to moisten them sufficiently to 
make their surface clear and shining; 
place them on a sheet of thick paper, 


three quarters of an inch apart, and put |} : 
| the plaice in exactly the same manner 


them in the oven. 

Pistracuio Petits Pots.*—Have ready 
ten small moulds; take a sufficient quan- 
tity of cream to fill them, and put it 


into a saucepan, with a quarter of a} 
pound of powder-sugar; give it a boil, | 
and then, having blanched and pounded | 


a quarter of a pound of pistachios toa 
fine paste, pour the cream on it, boil 


them together once, and let them get | 
| provement. 


cold. Put four yolks, and one whole 


egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream | 
to it, mix them together, and when it | 


has boiled once, pour it into the moulds, 
which place in the dazn-mare to set. 
Pisracuios Souflé, Francaise of.*— 
Take half a pound of pistachios, two 
ounces of preserved cedrat, and two 
drachms of bitter almonds blanched; 


pound these well; infuse them in nine | 


glasses of boiling milk for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and then strain it 
through a napkin into the usual prepara- 
tion. Just before the whites of eggs are 


put in, add to the whole a sutiicient | 
} into a stewpan; with some Italienne, a 


quantity of spinach essence, to tinge it 
of a delicate green: finish as usual. (See 
Soufilé Franeaise). 
sugar only. 
Pistacato Tourte.*—Mix the yolks of 
four eggs with some rice-flower, dried 
orange-flowers chopped, cream and su- 
gar: set these on the fire, stirring con- 
Stantly ;in half an hour take it off, add 


( 412 ) 


four ounces of pounded pistachios, and 
alittle preserved Jemon-peel ; put this 


and colour it lightly in the oven. 


Glaze with powder- | 
| they have simmered an hour, dish them, 





PLO 


preparation into a raised rich pufi- paste, 


and lay over ita kind of trejlis work, or 


any other kind of ornament with paste, 


Pistacnio /Vafers.* — Dilute half a 


paration over a well buttered tin to the 
thickness of half an inch, and put it ina 
brisk oven for a quarter of an. hour; 
when done, cut it in pieces two inches 
square; glaze, and. cover them lightly 
with minced pistachias. . 
PLAICE, an excellent way to dress @ 


large one.— Sprinkle it well with salt, 


and keep it for four and twenty hours ; 


| then wash it, and wipe it dry, do it over 


with egg, and then with bread crumbs} 
then make boiling hot some lard, with 
two large spoonsful of vinegar; lay in 
the fish, and fry it a fine colour, drain it 
from the fat, and serve with fried parsley 
and anchovy sauce. You may, if you 
choose, instead of putting vinegar into 
the pan previously, dip the fish in vine- 
gar. 

Puaice, with Dutch Sauce.—Prepare 


as soles, with mushrooms; when well 
drained from the liquor, lay them.on a 
dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce, 

Puaice @ 1’ Espagnole.—Prepare it the 
same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead 
of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must 
be a good strong sauce @ l’espagnole, with 
more lemon-juice than usual; a few. 
mushrooms added would be a great im- 


PLOVERS, to Choose.—Choose them 
by the hardness of the vent, which shews 
that they are fat; and when new, they are 
limber tooted. In other respects, chocse 
them by the same marks as other fowls, 

There are three sorts; the grey, green, 
and bastard plover or lapwing. ; 

Provers Bozled.— They should be 
boiled in a goed celery sauce, white or 
brown; or they may be roasted like any 
other fowl, with good gravy in the dish. 

Piovers ( Capilotade of ).*¥—Take three 
or four cold roasied plovers, cut them in 
halves, skin and trim them; put them 


glass of white wine, and seasoning to thie 
palate. Set them on the fire, and when 


with slices of fried bread between. Skim 
the liquor, add the juice ofa lemon, and 
pour it over the birds. 

Piovers, to Dress.— Green plovers 
should be dressed the same as woodcocks, 








PLU 


without drawing, and served ona toast. 
Grey plovers should be stewed.—Make 
a forcemeat with the yolks of two hard 
eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, arti- 
choke bottoms cut small, and sweet 
herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg: stuff the birds, and put them 
into a saucepan, with just a sufficient 
quantity of good gravy to cover them, 
one glass of white wine, and a blade of 
mace ; cover them close, and let them 
stew very gently till they are tender; 
then take up the plovers, lay them ina 
dish, keep them hot; puta piece of but- 
ter rolied in flour, to thicken the sauce, 
let it boil till smooth ; squeeze intv it a 
little lemon; skim it, and pour it over 
the plovers. 

Piovers au Gratin.* — Pick, clean, 
and singe four plovers; make a farce 
with their intestines, (except the giz- 
zard), minced, and mixed with half the 
quantity of grated bacon, a little shred 
parsley and shalots, salt and pepper, fill 
the plovers with this; laya gratin (see 
that article) on your dish to about the 
thickness of an inch, place the plovers on 
it, and fill the spaces between them with 
the same; raise the gratin round, but 
take care not to cover the breast with it 5 
lay slices of bacon over the whole, and 
set it over a moderate fire, with rather a 
brisk one at the top; when done, drain 
off all the fat, and serve them with an 
Italienne. 

Provers @ la Perigueux.*—Put four 
plovers into a stewpan, with a dozen 
whole truffles, (skinned), a douguet, some 
basil, salt and pepper} give them a few 
turns in a little butter, and then adda 
glass of champagne, and six ladlesful of 
reduced espagnole ; skim it well, and 


-when done, take out the birds and 


truffles, place them on a dish, the truffles 
at the top; reduce the sauce, add the 
juice of a lemon, and serve it. 

Piovers Roasted.*—Makea farce with 
the intestines of four plovers, as directed 
for plovers aw gratin; stutf the birds 
with this farce, sew it in, and fasten 
them on skewers; cover them with slices 
of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix 
the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. 


When quite done, unfasten and dish. 


them. Serve with a ragoit of truffles 
poured over them. 

Piover’s Eggs.—Hoil them ten mi- 
nutes, and serve them on a napkin either 
hot or cold. 

PLUMS, in Brandy.*—Take twelve 
pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, 
and three pounds of sugar; the fruit 
should be turned in colour, but not ripe; 
prick, and put them into a saucepan 
with cold water, set them on the fire ; 


( 413 ) 


PLU 


when the water boils and the plums rise, 
take them out carefully with a skimmer 
and put them intoa pan of cold water ; 
clarify and boil the sugar to petet lissé, 
put the plums to it, and give them a 
boil ; the two succeeding days, drain off 
and boil the syrup, first alone, and after- 
wards with the fruit ; the third day drain 
the plums, and put them into bottles 5 
then boil the syrup to da nappe, and 
when cold, add to it three-fourths of its 
quantity of the best brandy, stir it well, 
strain and pour the mixture over the 
plums. Cork the bottles tight. Green- 
gage plums are done like apricots. (See 
Apricots in Brandy.) : 

Piums Candied.—Choose your fruit 
of a nice shape and good size; cut them 
in halves, Jay them on a large shallow 
dish, strew powder-sugar over, and put 
them into a moderate oven, tightly 
closed ; in half an hour’s time, take them 
out, and place the plums one by one on 
glass plates todry. 

Puums, Clear Cakes of —Filla jar with 
the white pear plums, set it in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water on the fire; when 
sufficiently done, let the clear juice run 
from it, and toevery pint of it, add an 
equal quantity of sugar, boiled to candy 
height ; put the juice to the syrup, set 
it on the fire, ae keep stirring it till 
the whole is quite hot, but not boiling ; 
then pour it into glasses, and dry the 
cakes in a stove. 

Putum Cream.—This is made in the 
same manner as peach-cream, and made 
with the magnum bonum; the other 
kinds will do, but the first-mentioned 
is best. 

Puums Fromage, Bavarvis.* — Take 
the stones from an hundred small, or 
thirty-six large plums, make a marma- 
lade of them with half a pound of clari- 
fied sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, 
mix the isinglass in, and proceed as 
usual. (See Fromage Bavarois.) 

Puiums with Almonds, Gimbdlettes of.*— 
These are made in the same manner 
as other gimblettes ; (See Peach Gim- 
blettes), only that plum-marmalade and 
sweet almonds, blanched, are used in- 
stead of peach-marmaiadeand pistachios. 

Piums in Jelly —When the plums are 
preserved in their first sugar, drain and 
strain the syrup through a jelly-bag. 
Take some ripe plums and codlins, put 
them into a saucepan with as much 
water as will cover them; set them on 
the fire, and when quite soft, press out 
the juice and strain it, and for every 
pint of juice, boil a pound of sugar to 
soufié ; boil the juice a littie, then add 
the syrup, and plums, and boil all to- 
ashore, Take it off, and when it has 


PLU 
settled a little, skim and pour it into 
glasses. A little scraped ginger, soaked 
in water for two or three days, and 
boiled with the above, imparts a fine fla- 
vour to the jelly. 

Piums,. Marmalade of.* — Take six 
pounds of plums, and four pounds of 
sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a 
cullender, beat it through with a wooden 
pestle into a preserving-pan, which set 
on the fire, to dry the pulp, stirring it 
constantly. In the mean time, clarify 
and boil the sugar to petit cassé, then 
mix it with the fruit (still on the fire), 
stir it till the whole is of the consistence 
of jelly, then take it off; and pour the 
marmalade into pots. 

If the plums are not quite ripe, they 
must be boiled once or twice before they 
are pressed through the cullender. Some 
of the kernels may be added, if ap- 
proved; they should be pounded before 
putting in the marmalade. 

Puiums (to pickle like Olives.)—Take 
the plums before they are quite ripe, and 
put them into a saucepan with white wine 
vinegar, salt; water-fennel seed, and dill, 
as much of each as will impart a flavour 
to the pickle ; when it boils put in the 
plums, let it boil again, then take it off; 
let it stand till cold, then put them into 
jars. 

Pium- Buds to Pickle:—Gather some 
plum: buds, and put them into boiling salt 
and water; when they have boiled, before 
they are tender, take them out, drain the 
water from them, when cold add some 
white-wihe vinegar, two or three blades 
of mace, and a little whole pepper; put 
these into the pickle and leave it; in about 
eight or nine days, boil them again a 
few times, taking care not to let them 
get soft; when cold, put the whule into 
jars, and tie them down. 

Puums Preserved (Dry).—Gather the 
plums when full grown and just turning 
colour, prick and put them into a sauce- 
pan of cold water, set them on the fire 
until the water is on the point of boiling ; 
then take them out, drain and boil them 
well in some clarified sugar, let them 
settle, and then boil them again ; if they 
shrink and will not take the sugar, prick 


give them another boil, skim and set 
them by: the next day, add some more 


sugar, boiled to sowflé, to the fruit, and | 


syrup, then do them together; place 
them in a stove till next day, when drain 
the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a 
little powder-sugar over, and dry them 
in a stove. 

‘Piums, Preserved Liquid.*— Gather 


the plums green, firm, and when the | 


stone may be extracted with ease, cut 


( 414 ) 





PO! 


the stalks close, and prick the fruit in 
several places, especially round the stalk 5 
then place them ina saucepan of water 
over the fire, and as soon as the water 1s 


ready to boil, take the saucepan front 
the fire ; in four-and-twenty hours, re- 


place the plums in the same water on @ 
gentle fire, with a small quantity of ver 
juice to preserve their colour. Keep the 


water hot, without allowing it to boil, for 


three hours, stirring it occasionally 5 
when the fruit is perfectly green, In- 
crease the heat till the plums rise to thé 
surface, when they must be taken oué 
and thrown into cold water, which 
change frequently till the plums are per- 
fectly cold, then drain them. Put the 
fruit in some sugar boiled to la nappes 
boil them up a few times, adding a little 
water ; skim, and then pour the whole 
into a pan; the next two days, drain off 
the syrup, and increase the degree of 
boiling each day ; the third and fourth 
days, boil the fruit with the syrup, keep= 
ing them covered, and increasing the 
degree, until the last time, it reaches to 
perlé, Put the preserve into pots, and 
place them for two days in a stove. ots 

The same fruit may be preserved dry 
also. The operation is the same,’ but 
the syrup is drained off, and the plums 
laid on tin plates before they are put into 
the stove. 

Pium Pudding.*—Cut the crumb of a 
penny leaf into slices, pour over them a 
sufficient quantity of boiling milk to 
soak them; when quite soft, beat the 
bread up with half a pound of clarified 
suet, half a pound of raisins stoned, half 
a pound of currants, sugar to the taste, 
five eggs, well beaten, candied-orange, 
lemon, and citron, and a few bitter al- 
monds, pounded ; mix the. ingredients 
thoroughly, adda cup of brandy, pour it 
into a dish, and bake it. \ When done, 
turn it out, and strew powder-sugar 
over. if 

These ingredients make as good a puds 
ding, boiled. Take care to flour well 
the cloth, or raould, used for this pure 
pose. Few things require more boiling 
than a plum-pudding ; be careful, there- 


t | fore, to let it be sufficiently done. 
them as they lay in the pan, and then | 


POELEE.*—Take twe pounds of veal, 


| two pounds of bacen, two large carrote, 


and three onions; cut all these into dice, 
and put them into a stewpan, with a 
pound of butter, the juice of three or 
four lemons, four cloves, two bay-leaves, 
bruised, alittle thyme, salt, and pepper ; 
set it over a good fire, and when pretty 
wel] reduced, add a ladleful of pot set- 
tlings ; as soon as the whole is about half 
done, take it off, and set it by for use. 
POIVRADE.*—Put into a stewpan a 





POR 


large bunch of parsley-leaves, some scal- 
lions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a 
dessert spoonful of fine white pepper, a 
glass of vinegar, anda small quantity of 


butter ; set the pan on the fire, and re- | 


duce the whole till nearly all gone, when 
add two ladlesful of espagnole, and one 
of stock; reduce these again to the 
proper consistence, and strain it for use. 

POMEGRANATE Clear Cakes.— 
Pare some good boiling apples, and put 
them into a saucepan withas much water 
as will cover them, set them on the fire, 
and when perfectly soft, press the pulp 
through a sieve, and then strain it. Boil 
this jelly with the juice of two or three 
pomegranates, that of one orange, an 
one lemon, and the rind of each grated ; 
strain it again, and to every pound of 
jelly add a pound and a quarter of fine 
sugar, hailed: till it cracks, colour it with 
cochineal; pour it into glasses (taking 
otf the scum before it becomes cold). 
Set them in a stove, and when the 
top is dry, turn them out, and put them 
to dry again ; then cut them into what- 
ever forms you please, put them into the 
stove or oven to harden, then lay them on 
sieves, and when thoroughly dry, place 
them in boxes with paper between. As 
they are apt to become moist, they 
should be looked at frequently. 

PomEeGRranaTes, Transparent Jelly of.* 
—Take the seeds from five very fine 
pomegranates, from which extract the 
juice by pressing it hard through a horse- 
hair sieve; filter this juice and mix it 
with some syrup tinged of a rose colour, 
with a little cochineal ; add the isinglaes 
to this, and finish as usual. (See Clear 
Fruit Jeily.) 

PomeeRranaTeEs, Syrup of.*—Take five 
very ripe large pomegranates, extract 
the seeds (which must be very red); 
crush, and put them into a skillet, with 
half a pint of water; set them on the 
fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice 


‘through a new coarse cloth; clarify a 


pound and half of sugar, and boil it to 
soufié, then add the juice, boil them 
together to the usual consistence of 
syrups. It must not be bottled until 
quite cold. This: number of pomegra- 
nates will yield a quart of syrup.. 

Pork to Chovse.—If the pork is fresh, 
the flesh appears cool and smooth; if 
tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle in 
general is affected first. There is a kind 
of pork called measly; when in this 
state it is extremely unwholesome to eat j 
but you may easily discover when it is 
measly, the fat being impregnated with 
small kernels. If the rind is tough, 
thick, and cannot easily be impressed by 
the finger, it is old. Pork fed at still- 


( 415 ) 


POR 


houses does not answer for curing any 
way, the fat being spongy. Dairy fed 
pork is the best. The prime season for 
pork is from Michaelmas to Mareh. 

Bacon-hogs and porkers are cut up 
differently. Hogs are kept to a larger 
size; the chine (or back bone) should be 
cut down on each side, the whole length, 
and is either boiled or roasted ; the chine 
is considered the prime part. 

The sides of the hog are made into 
bacon, and the inside is cut out with very 
little meat to the bones There is a large 
spare-rib on each side, which is generally 
divided into two, one sweet bone, and 
one blade bone. The bacon is the whole 
outside, and contains a fore-leg and a 
ham}; the latter is the hind-leg, but if 
left with the bacon it is called a gammon. 
There are also the griskins. Hog’s lard 
is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. 

Pickled pork is made of the flesh of 
hog, as well as bacon. ; 

Porkers are not so old as hogs; their 
flesh is whiter and less rich, but not 
equally tender. It is divided into four 
quarters. The fore-quarter consists of 
the spring, or fore-leg, the fore-loin, or 
neck, the spare-rib and griskin. The 
hind consists of the leg and loin. 

A variety of nice dishes may be made 
of the feet of pork ; they should be cut off 
before the legs are cured. The same 
may be observed with the ears. 

The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded 
to take off the hair, and is sometimes 
singed. The porker is always sealded. 

Pork, Blade Bone of.—It should be 
broiled, and when nearly done, peppered 
and salted. Put to it a piece of butter, 
and a tea-spoonful of mustard, and serve 
it very hot. 

The blade bone is taken from the 
bacon hog; the less meat leit on it, in 
moderation, the better. 

Pork Cheese.* — Take a pig’s head, 
and having boned it, cut al] the meat 
into rather thick slices; do the same 
with the ears; separate the fat from the 
lean, and mix the whole with bay-leaf, 
thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred 
fine), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other 
spices, the peel and juice of a lemon ; lay 
the skin of the head open over a salad- 
bowl; arrange the pieces in it, inter- 
mixing with them a little leaf, tongue, 
a@ Vécarlate, and truffies; when all are 
put in, wrap the skin round them ; sew 
it up very tight, and dress it as directed 
for hog’s head ; when sufflicientiy done, 
take it from the fire, and whilst warm, 
put it in a mould to give it any shape 
you may desire. 

Pork Cheese (Italian).* — Pound a 
pig’s liver, with two third’s bacon, and 


POR 


one third leaf; when they are thoroughly 
incorporated, add to them shred thyme, 
sage, basil, bay-leaf, parsley, coriander, 
spices, anise (pounded), grated nutmey, 
sait and pepper. Line a mould with caul, 
into which put the above preparation ; 
cover it with thin slices of bacon, anc 
bake it. _When done, leave it to cool in 
the mould. . 

Porx Chitterlings.*—Take the fat guts 
of a pig, wash and cut them into such 
lengths as yon may desire, and then put 
them into vinegarand water, with thyme, 
bay-leaf, and basil, for twelve hours; after 
which, chop up a part of the above, some 
fresh pork, and leaf; and season them 
with salt, pepper, four kinds of spices, 
and a little anise in powder; put these 
into the remaining guts, so as to fill them 
about two thirds, tie them up, and boil 
them in equal quantities of water and 
milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, 
and bay-leaf. When done, leave them 
to cool in the liquor; they must be 
broiled before they are sent to table. 

Pork, Fritters.* — Are made in the 
same manner as veal fritters; the pig’s 
fry make the best. They should be fried 
in olive oil; and made of a lighter colour 
than other fritters. 

Pork Griskin. — Pork griskin is in 
general extremely hard; the best way to 
prevent this is by putting it into a suffi- 
cient quantity of cold water to cover it, 
and let it boil up; then instantly take it 
off, and put it into a Dutch oven; it will 
be done in afew minutes. It should be 
rubbed all over with butter, and then 
floured before it is put to the fire. 

Pork (Hashed) and Onions.*-—Cut a 
cold roasted chine of pork into small 
slices; clear away all the skin, and take 
fifteen large onions, cut them in halves; 
take the hearts, and cut them into half 
rings; fry them lightly; drain and put 
them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful 
of consommé ; when reduced to a glaze, 
add the meat, and four spoonsful of 
espagnole. Make it hot, without boiling ; 
put in some butter, and serve it. 

Pork, to Pickle.—The quantities must 
be proportioned to the middlings of a 
pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders 
being taken off. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of 
saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an 
ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common 
salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and 
drain it for twenty-four hours; then rub 
with the above ingredients ; pack the 
pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling 
up the spaces with common salt. Place 
large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it 
from swimming in the pickle, which the 


( 416 ) 


POR 


salt will produce. If kept from the air 
it will continue good for two years. 

Pork, Pickled.*—Take the breast or 
belly parts of a pig; cut it in pieces, each 
of which rub well with fine salt anda 
little saltpetre ; put them one on another 


into a jar, as close as possible ; fil) up all 


the interstices with salt; cover the jar 
with a cloth, and close the jar tight. 
Leave the pork thus for a week or ten 
days, and then they may be served as 
you please. ; 

Porx Pie.—Cut into chops a piece of 
loin of pork, with the rind and part of 
the under bone cut off; season them 
with pepper and salt, cover them with 
puff paste, bake the pie, and when ready 
to be served, put in some cullis, with the 
essence of two onions, and a little mus- 
tard mixed with it. 

Pork Pie.—Make a short paste the 
same as for tarts; butter a large deep 
copper mould (or a stewpan will do), 
rourd the bottom and sides, place the 
paste tolerably thick, and having stewed 
the pork with pepper and salt, and a little 
grated nutmeg, place it in the crust with 
the gravy over it; cover it in with a good 
crust on the top, garnish it over with 
leaves, egg it, and bake it in a moderate 
oven ; when done, take it out, letting it 
stand in the mould till cold; and having 
stewed some odd bits of pork, or bones, 
for gravy, reduce it till it becomes tole- 
rably strong, turn the pie out of the 
mould, and pour in the gravy, If you 
should not happen to have any bits of 
pork, beef will do to make the gravy ; it 
must not be cut till thoroughly cold; the 
odd pieces near the spare-rib, the kid- 
neys, &c. will do very well for this pie; 
the less bone, the better it will cut. 

Pork (Cheshire) Pie.—Skin a loin of 
pork, cut it into steaks; season it with 
salt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good 
crust; es into the dish first a layer of 
pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and 
cored, and a little sugar, sufficient to 
sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork; 
put in half a pint of white wine, some 
butter on the top, and close your pie ; if 
it is a large one, it will require a pint of 
wine. 

Pork Potted.—Cut the meat from a 
leg of pork into pieces, pound it very well 
in a mortar, season it well with salt and 
pepper; then mix the meat with rose- 
mary and sage, shred small; put it into 
a pot to bake witha pound of butter: 
when it comes out of the oven, drain it 
from the gravy, and press it down close 
inadry pot. Then having skimmed off 
all the butter from your gravy, clarify as 
much more butter as will cover the meat 





POR 


an inch ‘thick in the pot; cover the pot 
with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. 

Pork, with Salt.*—Take any joint of 
fresh killed pork you like, sprinkle it 
with coarse salt and spices; the next 
day spit, and roast it, basting with its own 
gravy; take care that it is thoroughly 
done. Serve with whatever sauce or 
garnish you please. Some persons lard 
it with green sage before it is roasted. 

Pork (fresh) Sauce.*—Cuttwo or three 
good-sized onions into slices, and fry 
them lightly in oil; thenadd two spoons- 
ful of cullis, a little broth, a few mush- 
rooms, chopped, a clove of garlic, vine- 
gar and spice. Let it boil half an hour, 
reduce to a proper consistence, skim and 
Strain it. 

Pork Sausages.—Take two pounds of 
lean pork, three pounds of chine fat, free 
from skin, some sage leaves, chopped 
fine, pounded cloves, pepper and salt; 

eat it fine, and either press it into pots, 
and roll it when it is used, or put it into 
skins. 

Pork Sausages.*—Take one third fat, 
and two thirds lean fresh pork, chop it 
weil, but not too fine; season with salt, 
pepper and spices, and put it into a pan, 
which set on hot ashes for half an hour ; 
clean the guts thoroughly (they may be 
of any animal), tie one end, and fill them 
with the above, gradually, pressing them 
gently that the meat may descend to the 
bottom; divide, and tie them in what 
lengths you please. 

Pork Sausages.—Take pork in which 
there is more fat than lean, mince it with 
parsley and young onions, and season 
with salt and fine spices; put the whole 
into the gut of a calf or pig, tie the sau- 
sages of a proper length, and broil them ; 
you may give themany flavour you think 
proper, with truffles, shalots, &c. If 
with truffles, mince them with the meat 
accorditg to the quantity you choose ; if 
with shalots, you must use very little, 
for fear the taste should predominate too 
much. Flat sausages are meade in the 
same manner, with this difference, that 
the meatis putintoa pig’s maw. Some 
persons add a glass of white wine to the 
psausaze meat when mixing. 

Pork Sausages.—Take eight pounds of 
lean pork, free from gristle and skin; 
shred and chop it very fine, then chop 
four pounds of beef suet, and four pounds 
of pork fat, shred extremely fine, and a 
good handful of sage; spreadthe meat 
out upon a large dish, and shake sage 
over it; grate in two nutmegs, add a 
spoonful of salt, and about three spoons- 
ful of sweet herbs, very finely chopped; 
shake over it the pork fat and the suet, 
then mix all well together; pot it close 


( 417) 


POR 


down with paper over it. It will be much’ 
better for letting it stand a day or two. 
When you wish to make them up, roll 
them up about the size of a sausage, 
dip them in egg, and then roll them 
in flour; have some butter on the fire, 
and when very hort, put them in, shaking 
them about nearly the whole time, till 
they are done of a fine colour ; then serve 
them hot to table. If you choose you 
may put them into skins, taking care. 
that they are very clean, filling them: 
very gently with a funnel, otherwise 
they may stand a chance of being broken} 
these are best for garnishing a turkey. 

Pork Sausage to Eat Cold.— Season 
fat and lean pork with salt, saltpetre, 
black pepper, and allspice, all in fine 
powder, and rub intothe meat; the sixth 
day cut it small, and mix with it some 
shred shalots, or garlic, as fine as pos- 
sible. Have ready an ox gut, that has 
been scoured, salted, and well soaked, 
and fill it with the above stufling; tie up 
the ends, and hang it up to smoke, the 
same as a ham, first wrapping it in a fold 
or two of muslin. It must be high dried. 
Some persons eat it without boiling, 
others prefer it boiled. ‘The skin should 
be tied in several places, so as to make 
each link about eight or nine inches long. 

Pork, Spring or Forehand.—TYake out 
the bone; then sprinkle over the inside 
some salt, pepper, and. sage, dried ; but 
first warm a little butter to baste; then 
flour it, roll it up tightly, and tie it;: 
then roast it by a hanging jack. It will 
take about two hours to roast. 

Pork, Chine of.*—Cut this piece as 
square as possible, and leave the fat on 
it an inch thick, score it, and skewer it 
into proper form, roast it for two hours ; 
serve it with tomata, piquante, or Robert 
sauce. 

Pork (Chine of) Roasted.—If{ parted 
down the back-bone, so as to have but 
one side, it will take two hours to roast 
before a good fire; but if not parted it 
will take three hours. 

Chines are usually salted and boiled. 

Porx (Chine of) Stuffed. — Take a 
chine of pork that has hung four or five 
days; cut some holes in the lean, and 
stuff it with a little of the leaf fat, chop- 
ped extremely smal], some parsley, 
thyme, a small quantity of sage, and 
shalots, cut very fine, seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg ; it should be stuff- 
ed pretty thick, and served with good 
gravy in the dish. Apple sauce, and 
potatoes should be served with it. 

Pork Chops, Brotled.—Broil them in 
the same manner as mutton chops, but 
they require more doing. Put a little 
good gravy to them, and strew over a 


POR 


little sage, shred very fine, which very 
much improves the flavour. 

Pork Chops en Ragoidt.*—Cut a loin 
or neck of fresh pork into chops, and 
stew them with a little stock, a bunch of 
herbs, pepper, and salt; have ready a 
veal sweetbread, parboiled, and cut 
into large dice; put it into a stewpan 
with some mushrooms, the livers of any 
kind of poultry, and a small quantity of 
butter, set it on the fire with some flour, 
a glass of white wine, a little gravy, and 
a little stock ; add salt and coarse pep- 
per, a bunch of parsley and green onions, 
a clove of garlic, and two cloves: let the 
whole boil, and reduce to a thick sauce, 
and serve it over the chops 3 or you may 
dress the chops in the same manner as 
the ragofit, and when rather more 
than half done, add the sweetbread, 
livers, and mushrooms. 

Pork Cutlets.—Take a loin of pork 
and skin it, then divide it into cutlets; 
strew over them some parsley and 
thyme, cut small, with pepper, salt, 
and grated bread; broil them of a fine 
brown; have ready some good gravy, 
@ spoonful of ready-made mustard, two 
shalots shred small; boil all these to- 
gether over the fire, thickened with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour; if agree- 
able, add a little vinegar. Serve the 
cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce 
poured over them. 

Pork Cutlets, Brotled.—Cut the pork 
chops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a 
little fat on them; beat them to flatten 
them into a good shape ; broil them, and 
when thoroughly done, serve with a 
sauce Robert, or gherkins. 

Pork Cutlets, with Red or White Cab- 
buge.—Take a back piece of pork, cut it 
into cutlets, beat and trim them, season 
with pepper and salt, gently broil them 
till done ; they must be of a nice light 
brown colour. Serve them on red or 
white cabhage, stewed. 

Pork (Fillet of) Roasted. — Take a 
piece of back pork, cut the chine bone 
from the under part, and let it lay ina 
marinade all night ; when to be roasted, 
run a lark-spit through, tie it on another 
spit, cover it with paper, and roast it 
gently ; and when to be served up, if not 
coloured enough, glaze it Lightly, and 
serve it with a sauce Robert under- 
neath. 

Pork Loin and Neck.—They should 
be roasted. With a sharp penknife cut 
the skin of the loin acruss, at the dis- 
tance of half an inch. 

Pork (Neck of) Rolled.—Take aneck 
of pork and remove out allthe bones; put 
a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few 
bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few 


( 418 ) 


POR 


berries of allspice, over the inside; then 


roll the meat as tight as you can, and let 
it roast slowly, placing it at first a good 
distance from the fire. 


Pork (Leg of) Barbicued.—Put a leg 
of pork before the fire to roast, put a 


good deal of red wine iuto the dripping- 
pan, and baste it well all the time it is 


roasting; if there is not enough port in 


at first, add more; it will take about three 
pints ; cut the skin from the bottom of 
the shank in rows of an inch broad; raise 
every other row, and roll it tothe sh 

have ready a pint of strong gravy, and 
add to ita, pint of red wine, a couple of 
anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the 


yolks of four eggs boiled hardand pound-- 
ed fine, with a quarter of a pound of but-- 


ter, the juice of a lemon, and two spoons- 
ful of ketchup; let the gravy and wine 
be well boiled together, and the anchovy 
with it; strain these off, and add the 
other ingredients; let them boil a few 


minutes; froth the pork, take it up, pour: 


part of the sauce over it, and put the 
rest into a boat. 

Pork, Leg of Botiled.—Take a leg of 
pork that has been in salt eight or ten 
Jays; when it is to be dressed, weigh it; 
let itsoak for half an hour in cold water 
to make it white; allow a quarter of an 


hour for every pound, and half an hour 


over, from the time it boils up; as soon 


as it boils, skim it, and so continue. 


Allow water enough. It should be boiled 


in a cloth, nicely floured, this adds much- 


to the delicacy of its appearance. The 
ork should be small, and of a fine grain. 
Serve peas pudding and turnips with 
lt. 

Pork (Leg of) Brotled.—Skin part of 
the fillet, cut it into thin slices, hack it 
on the back with a knife, then season 
with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, 
minced small; then broil them on a 
gridiron, dish them, and let their sauce 
be butter, vinegar, and mustard. 

Pork (Leg of) Roasted).—Make choice 
of a small leg of fine young pork; witha 
sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and 
fill the space with chopped sage and 


onion, and a little pepper and salt. 


When half roasted, score the skin in 
slices, being careful not to cut deeper 
than the outer rind. 

Apple sauce and potatoes should be 
served to eat with it. 

PorKx (Shoulders and Breasts).—Put 
them into pickle, or the shoulder may 
be salted as a leg; when they are very 
nice, they may be roasted. 

PorkER’s Head, to Roast.—Takea fine 
young head, thoroughly clean it, and put 
bread and sage ihe same as for pig; sew 
it up tight, and roast it like a pig, ona 


ank;. 








POT 


string or hanging jack, and serve it with 
the same sauce as for pig. 

POTAGE a? Angiaise.*—Take carp, 
perch, pike, smelts, or any other fish you 
chuse, cut them into pieces, add a few 
oysters (without their shells); put all 
these into fish-broth, and simmer over a 
moderate fire till sufficiently done, and 
the meat separates from the bones; then 
let the liquor run through a sieve, re- 
move the bones, and rub the fish to a 
purée, also through the sieve; soak 
bread as usual in the broth, cover the 
slices with the purée, and fill your 
tureen. aut 

Porace a la Chartres.*—Soak three or 
four veal sweetbreads in warmwater; then 
scald and put them into a saucepan with 
one or two cock’s-combs (also scalded), 
a bunchof parsley, green shalots, a few 
mushrooms, two cloves, and some good 
stock, set the whole on a slow fire; cut 
and soak your bread as usual, put it into 
the tureen, and when the above articles 
are sufficiently done, add them to the 
bread with a proper quantity of the broth, 

and serve. 

Porace a la Condé.*—Boil a quartern 
of scariet beans in some stock; add to 
them two carrots, twoonions, two cloves, 
a little pot-skimmings; when they are 
quite done, strain them through a sieve, 
and pour your purée into a soup-tureen 
on some pieces of fried bread. 

Porace @ la Courte Bouilion.—Prepare 
some ham, beef, and veal in a stewpan, 
with spice and vegetables, as directed 
for Soup de Santé, and fill it up with con- 
sommé, and about one bottle of sherry ; 
when the meat is well dune, pass it 
through a iawn sieve into a pan or basin ; 
have some carrots and celery prepared 
the same as for vegetable soup, blanched 
and stewed in strong consommé, likewise 
five or six fine cabbage letiuces, done 
whole, and stewed as carruts and celery ; 
two dozen small onions must be fried 
brown, and put into the soup-pot with 
the other vegetables ; when they are pro- 
perly stewed, pour the soup from the 
basin over them, and let them simmer 
gently by the side of the stove for four 
hours, skimming whenever it is required. 
Put the crust of two French rolis, cut 
round, and fried of a light brown, in the 
tureen, and peur the soup over them. 

PoraGeE @ la Cregy.*—Take six large 
carrots, four turnips, six onions, three 
heads of celery, four leeks, cut them in 
pieces, and put them into a saucepan 
with some butter and a iump of sugar; 
give them a few turns over the fire, an 
then moisten them with stock, in which 
let them simmer for two hours, rub the 
vegetables through a sieve, clarify your 


( 419 ) 


POT 


purée, which may not be too thick ; soak 
your bread, as usual, in rich stock ; pour 
the potage into the tureen, and serve it. 

PotacE, a la Geauffret.*—Roast ten or 
a dozen potatoes on hot ashes, and having 
peeled them, remove all those parts 
which may be hard or crisp, and pound 
the remainder dry; then add the breasts 
of four fowls, and a quarter of a pound 
of butter, pound these with the potatoes ; 
when it has become a smooth parte, put 
to it the yolks of eight eggs; beat them 
up with the rest, season with nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt; if your paste be too 
thick, add a sufficient quantity of double 
cream to make it of the proper consist- 
ence to make into balls, which poach, 
either in broth or salt water, and a smajl 
quantity of butter ; in about half an hour 
take them out, drain, and having filled 
your tureen with good broth, put in the 
balls and serve it. 

Porace @ la Kusel.* —-Take thirty car- 
rots, aS Many turnips, and small onions, 
twenty leeks, ten heads of celery (the 
two latter cut about an inch long), six 
lettuces. Put the above (except the let- 
tuces) into some stock, and boil them, 
braise the latter between two slices of 
bacon; when done, put them with the 
other vegetables into a soup-tureen with- 
out any bread. 

Portage @ fa Polacre.*—Take some 
boiled potatoes, peel and cut tnoem into 
slices; puta handful of chopped fennel 
into some good stock, set it on the fire, 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and 
having put the potatoes into a soup- 
tureen, pour the broth on them and 
serve. 

PotaGE, Printannier, or Chiffonade.*— 
Take twenty young carrots, as many 
turnips, small onions, and leeks, cut 
them into pieces with a root-cutter, 
blanch, and cool them; put them into a 
saucepan with some good consommé, cook 
the above routs in this, putting in the 
onions last; add to these some young 
peas, sorrel, lettuces (cut small) young 
broad beans, asparagus heads, French 
beans, and cucumbers, cut in pieces ; boil 
all these with the first-mentioned arti- 
cles, a lump of sugar, and a pinch of 
shred parsley. Reduce the whole to a 
glaze; serve it, either with or without 
bread, in a purée of green peas or some 
good consommé. 

PotacEe @ la Reine.*—Take three or 
four cold roast chickens, cut off all the 
meat, and pound it well with two table- 
spoonsful of rice (previously boiled in 
water for a quarter of an hour), dilute it 
with some good consommé, and strain it; 
then add asuificient quantity of cansammé 
to the purée to make it of the requisite 


POT 


consistence}; put the bones of the chickens 


into the above, and let it simmer over a_ 


small fire for two hours; about a quarter 
of an hour before dinner pour some of it 
over the bread to soak it as usual; just 
before serving, strain the whole through 
a fine sieve. 

Poracs @ la Sainte Ménéhoulde.—For 
this potage you must have eight or nine 
clear carrots, scraped, cut in quarters, 
and the inside white taken out, then boil 
it with six heads of celery in a stewpanof 
water with a spoonful of salt, till perfectly 
tender; put them ina sieve for a few mi- 


nutes, then stir them in a stewpan with | 


two ounces of butter, on a slow fire for a 
quarter of an hour, with a little salt. a 
small lump of sugar, and one handful of 
peppercorns ; when they are well washed, 
put in a ladleful of good veal gravy or 
espagnole, and when it boils rub it 
through atammy; add a pint more of 
the gravy when the whole is put into the 
soup pot, till within one hour of the din- 
ner, then place it on the stove to boil 
gently ; having some vegetables prepared 
the same as in Vegetable Soup, well 
stewed down in a quart of good consommé, 


put themin the purée for ten minutes 5 _ 


before serving, skim and stir it gently, 
then pour it in the tureen. 
~Porace ad la Viennet.*—Take some 
slices of crumb, about half an inch thick, 
cut them into squares, ovals, or circles, 
according to your fancy; they must, 
however, be all of the same shape and 
size, twenty or thirty are sufficient; fry 
them in a quarter ofa pound of butter over 
a brisk fire; when they are of a nice colour, 
lay them ona cloth todrain, then put them 
into a soup-tureen, and ten minutes be- 
fore you serve, pour on them any sort of 
clear purée you may think proper. 
PoraGcE & la Xavier.*—TVake a pound 
of flour, six yolks, two whole eggs, a lit- 
tile salt, anda sufficient quantity of stock 
or broth to makethe above into a thin 
paste, to which add a spoonful of shred 
parsley, some grated nutmeg, a little 
pepper, and mix them well. Poursome 
good stock or broth into a saucepan till 
about three parts full, set it on the fire, 
and when it boils takea skimmer, through 
which rub the above-mentioned paste ; 
be careful to keep it constantly boiling, 
that the paste may stiffen, and skim it 
well. A quarter of an hour is sufficient 
time to do this potage. 
POTATOES a /’ Angiaise.*—Having 
well washed as many pctatoes as you may 
require, boil them in salt and water; 
when nearly done, pare and cut them 
into slices, then put them into some 
melted butter, and fry them lightly; sea- 


( 420 ) 





POT 


son with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ;-serve 
themdry. | awh 
Potator Cheesecakes.* —Pare and boil 
thoroughly half a pound of the best kind 
of potatoes; when quite done, rub them 
through a sieve, and mix with them two 
egzs well beaten, a sufficient quantity of 
milk to make it intoa paste,afew currants, 
alittle spice, and grated bread. Lay this 
on puff-paste, like other cheesecakes, 
and bake. 
PoraTor Biscuts.*—Beat the yolks of 
fifteen eggs with a pound of sifted sugar, 


grate the rind of alemon ona piece of: 


lump sugar } scrape off the yellow sugar 
with a knife, and having dried it well, 
add it to the above, and continue to beat 
till it becomes quite white ; in the means 
time whip up an equal number of whites, 
and mix them lightly with the rest; then 
sift intoit half a pound of potatoe flour; 
stir it in, and pour the preparation into 
paper cases, but not to fill them}; glaze, 
and place the cases on paper laid ona 


| clean baking-tin, and bake in a moderate 


oven. 

Porators ( Young) a la Créme.—Take 
some fine young potatoes when they first 
corne in; boil them in a little water with 
plenty of salt, and when done, carefully 
take off the skin; toss them in a good 
cream sauce, and serve them at the se- 
cond course, 

Potators, @ la Créme.* —Put into 
a Saucepan about two ounces of butter, a 
dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley, scal- 
lions (both sliced small), salt, and pep- 
per; stir them up together, add a glass 
of cream and set it on the fire, stirring 
till it boils; then having cut some boiled 
potatoes into slices, put them into ‘the 
pave ; give them a boil, and serve ther 

ot. 


Potatoes, Croguettes of.*—Take the. 


flowery parts of some well roasted pota- 
toes; put them into amortar, and pound 
them with some cream; rub the purée 
through a sieve, and add some butter, 
shred parsley, yolks of eggs, and the 
whites beaten to a snow; make this pre- 
paration into little balls, which roll in 
bread-crumbs; fry the croquettes of a 
nice colour, and serve them hot. -A lit- 
tle powder-sugar and orange-flower water 
may be added to the above. 

Potatoes (French Custard of) * — 
Roast thirty of the best potatoes in hot 
ashes ; pare, use only the whitest parte, 
of which take three pounds, and beat it 
up thoroughly with a pound of fresh but- 
ter; then add the yolks of twelve eggs, a 
pound of powder-sugar, two ounces 
crisped orange-flower, (also in powder), 
a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of 





Ss ie ciel ee es te 


TP 


ee 





POT 


ehantilly cream ; add to these the whites 
of twelve eggs, whipped firm; then pour 
this preparation into a croustade, like 
other French custards, put it into a mo- 
derate oven, and bake it for two hours, 
or two and a half if necessary. Glaze 
and serve it. 

Poratoges (Frangipane of). * — Take 
some steamed potatoes,. (let them be 
thoroughly done); pare, and pound 
them perfectly; then put them into a 
basin, add some whole eggs, a little but- 
ter, the rind of a lemon grated, some 
bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity 
of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix these 
together well, and use this frangipane 
according to the usual directions. 

Porators Fried for Garniture.*—Cut 
about forty potatoes either into balls or 
corks, wash and drain them. Clarify a 
pound of fresh butter, and when melted, 
poor it over the potatoes (which.have 

een put into a frying-pan); take care 
that they do not lay one on another; 
cover the pan, and set it on a brisk fire, 
but Jessen it afterwards, and then put 
hot coals on the lid; stir the potatoes 
occasionally until they are of a nice gold 
colour, then drain, and fry them in a 
little butter and veal glaze. © Observe, 
the potatoes should be dressed only just 
before they are wanted. 

PoraTor Fritters.*— Wash and pare 
some potatoes; cut them into slices, 
whieh soak for half an hour in a little 
brandy, with the rind of a lemon; then 
drain, dip them in a good batter, and fry 
them ofa nice colour; drain.them again, 
place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve them hot. 

PoraToss ( Géteau of ).*—Pare as many 
steamed, or. well-boiled dry potatoes, and 
pound them in a mortar, add butter and 
milk in which sugar has been dissolved ; 
when the potatoes are well beaten and 
mixed, set the paste on the fire and boil 
it; then pour it into a basin to cool; then 
put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- 
cient quantity of sugar, the whites of 
four eggs beaten to a snow, and two 
spoonsful of orange-flower water. Take 
a saucepan, butter the inside well, and 
sprinkle. the sides over with bread 
crumbs, and pour in the above prepara- 
tion; set it on the stove with hot ashes 
on the lid, and let it remain till done, 
and nicely coloured, when it may be 
turned on a dish. 

PoraTors @ la Lyonnaise.*—Cut some 
boiled potatoes into slices, which put into 
a saucepan, and pour over them a clear 
purée of onions; set them on the fire, 
and keep them hot, without letting them 
boil ; add pepper, salt, a small quantity 


( 421)) 


“POT 


of stock, and a very little vinegar: Serve 
very hot. ed stat 
_ Porators @ la Mattre d’ Hétel.*—Bav- 
ing boiled your potatoes as usual, ,pare, 
and cut them into slices, which put into 
astewpan, with a good piece of butter, 
shred parsley, and. scallions, .salt- and 
pepper; set them on the fire a short 
time, and then fry them lightly in a little 
butter and sweet herbs; if you find the 
butter oils, pour, in a spoonful of water. 
Serve with a little lemon juice. 

Porator Pie. —Skm some potatoes, 
and cut them into slices; season them 5 
and also some mutton, beef, pork, or 
veal. Put into your dish alternate layers 
of meat and potatoes, until the dish is 
filled. me F 

Potatoss @ la Provencale.*—Put into 
a saucepan about two ounces of butter, 
cut Inte several pieces, and three des- 
sert spoonsful of oi], half the peel ofa 
lemon, parsley an@ scallions. (both shred 
smal]), grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of 
flour, salt and whole pepper; throw some 
potatoes into boiling water, in a few 
minutes take them out, pare and cut 
them into four or six pieces, according to 
their size ; put these pieces into the but- 
ter, &c., set the-saucepan on the fire, 
stirring them constantly, taking care not 
to let them boil... Serve with a little 
lemon-juice squeezed over. 

PoratoE Pudding: * — Having tho- 

roughly boiled two pounds of potatoes, 
peel and pound them well, then mix them 
with half a pound of melted butter, the 
same of powder-sugar, and six eggs; 
beat the whole well, then add a handful 
or two of flour, and a glassof white wine; 
stir these in, tie it in a buttered cloth, 
and boil it for half an hovr, 
. Porator Pudding.* — To two pounds 
of potatoes, boiled and mashed, when 
cold, add three. eggs well beaten, two 
ounces of moist sugar, a little nutmeg, 
and a pint of new milk; add lemon-peel 
if you please. Bake it. 

Poratogs (Purée of ).*—Steam some 
potatoes thoroughly, and having pared 
them, put them intoa mortar, and pound 
them as fine as possible, moistening them 


‘with good stock. Rub them through a 


sieve into a saucepan, and dilute the 
purée with more stock ; set it on the fire, 
and stir it till it is of the requisite con- 
sistence, which should be that of thick 
cream}; serve the purée with fried bread 
sebnlt and browned with the salamau- 
ier. : 
PoraTors (Quenelles of ).* — Put some 
of the best kind of potatoes into hot ashes 


ta roast; when done, take out all the 


ponte parts, which put into a mortar, 


POT 
Pound it well, and rub it through a sieve; 
take half the quantity of butter,-and beat 


it in the mortar with the potatoe flour, | 


till it becomes a very fine paste 3 then 
mix with it parsley and scallions, salt, 
pepper, grated nutmeg, the yolks of five 
or six eggs, and the whites of two or three 
well whipped; make your guenelles, and 
poach them as directed (see Fowl Que- 
nelles). Drain the guenelles, place them 
in a dish, and pour over them an espag- 
nole travaillée, tomata, portuguese, or 
any other sauce you may prefer. 

PotaTor Roils.*—Take a dozen large 
potatoes, and roast them in hot ashes ; 
when thoroughly done, pare and remove 
all those parts which may be at all co- 
loured by the heat, and of the remainder 
weigh three quarters of a pound, which 
put into a mortar, with a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and beat them together 
well; then add four ounces of powder- 
sugar, two of sifted flour, the yolks of 
two eggs, and a grain of salt ; pound these 
all together to a fine paste, flour a slab, 
lay the paste on it, and having ‘rolled it 
out, cut it into four equal parts, divide 


these again into small bits the sizeof a: 


walnut, which roll into balls, or'any other 


form you like better; place them on a’ 


slightly buttered baking-plate, dorez, 
and bake them in‘a moderate oven. Let 
them be of a nice colour, and dry a little, 
that they may be crisp. 

Poratoss (Sowflé of ).#—Take six des- 
sert spoonsful of potatoe flour, which 
dilute with a pint of cream, the yolks of 
four eggs; add six ounces of sugar, two 
ounces of butter, and a little shred le- 
‘mon-peel ; set this mixture on the fire, 
- Stirring till it has boiled up several times; 
- then take it off, and when cold, mixin 
the yolks of six eggs, (or'more if neces- 
sary); whip four whites of eggs as if for 
biscuits, and stir them lightly into the 
soufié, which put into a silver dish, and 
finish as usual. 

Poraror Flour, Method of procuring.* 
—Wash and brush fifteen. pounds of the 
most flowery kind of potatoes; ‘have 
ready a large pan full of water, into 
which grate the potatoes ; when all are 
done, change the water, in three hours’ 
‘time change it again, wash the flour twice 
more, then drain it on a silk tammy, and 
‘put it in the oven to dry; if you wantthe 
flour quickly, put it on a stewpan, which 
set on hot ashes; sift'it before you use it. 
The above quantity of potatoes-will yield 
two pounds of flour. 

Potator Flour (Soufflé of).* — Make 
an infusion’ of any aromatic article you 
please ; then take a moderate sized sance- 
pan, into which put half a pound of sifted 
potatoe flour, the same quantity of fresh 


( 422 ) 
| butter, mix these together till they form 


‘lid with hot ashes. 


POU 


avery smooth paste, and dilute it with 


nearly all the infusion, add a pound of 


powder-sugar, and a pinch of salt; set 
the saucepan.on a moderate.fire, stirring 
constantly ; the moment. it begins to 
thicken, take it off that it may more 
readily acquire‘consistence; then replace 
it on the stove, and dry it for a few mi- 
nutes; then remove it again, mix with 
it the yolks of sixteen eggs, which should 
reduce it to the consistence of crémepd- 
tisstére, if not, pour inthe infusion which 
was reserved: haying .in the interim 
whipped the sixteen whites toa strong 
froth, stir them as lightly as possible into 
the above; make the whole quite hot, 
and then pour it into a croustade; set it 
in a moderate oven for an hour, oran 
hour and a half; serve it the instant it 
is brought from the oven, either glazed 
or not, according to-your tastes» 4. 
POTIRON (Géteau of ).*—Peel and 
cut some potion into small pieces, and 
put them into a stewpan with a little 
milk; when sufficiently soft; press it in a 
cloth to get rid of all the water; then 
give it a few turns in some butter, add 
some potatoe flour, milk and:sugar, and 
let it boil slowly till of the proper con- 
sistence, then take it from the fire, and 
pour.it into a basin; as soon as itis cold, 
add the yolks of eight eggs, sugar, two 


-spoonsful of orange-flower water, and 


the whites of four:eggs beaten to a snow ; 
pour this preparation into a well buttered 
saucepan, and set it on a stove, cover the 
When done, and 
sufficiently coloured, turn it on a dish, 
ana serve. ; 
Porrron (Potage of ).*—Cut some pot- 
iron into rather large dice, which put 
into a saucepan with a dittle water, and 
boil it till sufficiently done; then put it 
into/a cullender to drain, and when quite 
dry, rub it through a bolting; put the 
purée into a saucepan, with a “proper 
‘quantity of milk, so that the potage. be 
not too thick, and add a quarter of a 
pound of. butter. Cut some slices -of 
bread into such shapes as -you may think 
proper, brown them. lightly in a:litule 
butter the same as for spinach, Jay them 
‘in your dish, and ‘pour «the oo ora 
them; take care that it be well salted. 
POUPELIN.*— Put into a saucepan 
four glasses of water, a quarter of.a pound 
of butter, the zeste of a lemon, and a 
pinch of fine salt; set.it on the fire, and 
28 soon as it begins to boil, take it off, 
and put in as much sifted flour as will 
make a paste the consistence of chouw, 
then replace it on the fire, snd keep 
stirring till it dries; make a similar mix- 
ture, and when that also is dry, put both 





‘ 
; 
| 





POU 


into a mortar, with half a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, an ounce of orange-flowers, 
and two eggs at a time, until five and 
twenty or thirty are used, by which time 
the paste wil! be of the proper consis- 
tence, then pour it into alightly buttered 
tin; put ‘it into a moderate oven, and 
leave it. In three hours’ time, if the 
poupelin is of a nice gold colour, take it 
out, cut off the top, and with a spoon 
remove all the inside, then set it in the 
oventodry. When cold, spread all over 
the interior apricot marmalade, on which 
strew sweet macaroons crushed, then 
turn it on a dish, and serve. 

Povre.in Histoiré.*—Put intoa sauce- 
pan eight glasses of water, and as many 
ounces of butter; set it on the fire, and 
as soon as it boils take it off, and add 
as much sifted flour as will make a stiff 
paste, replace it on the fire, stirring con- 
stantly for some minutes to dry; then 
take it out, and make a second quantity 
in the same manner, and when that also 
is dried, put both into a mortar,’ with 
three quarters of a pound of sugar, two 
ounces of orange-flower, and six eggs 5 
then beat it up, add six more, and so on 
until the paste is moistened completely 
with fifty or sixty eggs; pour this pre- 
paration into’ a large, well-buttered 
mould of twelve sides, and put itintoa 
hotoven. In two hours’ time the paste 
will rise above the mould, and some parts 
of it fall over, which, however, is un- 
avoidable, and of no consequence. When 
it has stood three hours and a half, draw 
the mould to the opening of the oven, 
andif the top of the poupelin is of a nice 
colour, cut it off, and with a large spoon, 
take out all the paste from the interior 
of the mould, so as to leave a compjete 
eroustade withinside, which must remain 
afew minutes to dry; then take it out, 
and when nearly cold, fill this erowstade 
with: three pounds of apricot marmalade, 
and over that a pound of sweet macaroons 
crushed; this'done, turn the mould over 
on a layer of common paste, nearly an 
‘inch larger than the top of the mould, 
which may now be removed. Dissolve 
in a bain-marie a pot of apple-jelly, and 
another of red currant-jelly, then with a 
feather cover the twelve sides of the 
poupelin alternately with these two jel- 
lies; then mix them together, and = by 
the same means wash over the other 
parts of the poupelin. 1f you wish to 
ornament it still more, cut out anumber 
of leaves of pistachios or green biscuits, 
which stick on with apricot marmalade, 
in such form as you may think proper, 
and between them place well-washed dry 
currants. Serve it as soon as possible 
after it is decorated. 


( 423 ) 


PUD 

Poupretin a la Reine.*—Make a chous 
paste, with very little butter, and a good 
deal of flour, dry it as much as possible; 
and then dilute it again with eggs. Lay 
your choux very smali, and of an equal 
size, dorez and put them in the oven; as 
soon as they are well dried, and of a nice 
colour, oil the mould you intend to use 3 
and having clarified and boiled some su- 
gar to cassé, take up the chowx on the 
end of a skewer, dip them in the sugar, 
place one in the middle of your mould, 
and lay the others round it until the in- 
terior is completely covered, taking care 
that they touch each other; when done, 
turn the mould over carefully on a folded 
napkin, and serve the poupelin. = 

PRAWNS.—When in perfection, they 
have anexcellentsmell,and their flavour ‘ 
is extremely swect; they are firm and 
stiff, the tails( which turn ward) parti- 
cularly. When the prawns are fresh, 
their colour is very bright; but if stale, 
they are pale, and clammy to the touch. 

Prawns Buttered.—Take them out of 
the shells, and warm them with a little 
good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a 


‘very little nutmeg, saltand pepper ; sim- 


mer a minute or two, and serve with 

sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of 

brown. ; 
Prawns (Currie of).— See Currie of 


’ Lobsters. 


Prawns tn Jelly. — Make a savoury 
fish-jelly, and putsome into the bottom 


‘of a small deep dish; when it is cold, lay’ 
‘in the prawns, with their backs down- 


wards, and pour more jelly over them. 
Turn out when cold. 
Prawns to Serve.*— Take a pound 
and a half of fine prawns, pick and trim 
them neatly; have ready a deep dish or 
soup-plate, the centre of which fill with’ 
any kind of salading you please, pro-. 
vided it has'no smell ; cever this witha 
large napkin, folded square, and the cor- 
ners turned down,'so as to form an octa- 
gon, leaving no more than the border of 


_the plate or dish visible ; place a hand- 


ful of nice green parsley on the napkin, 
and the prawnsina pyramid on it. 

Puppine (Directions for).—Take the 
greatest care in boiiing ofa pudding, that 
the cloth is perfectly clean, otherwise 
the outside of the. pudding will havea 
disagreeable flavour; to prevent this, the 
cloth should always be nicely washed and. 
keptina dry place, and when wanted for 
use, it should be dipped in boiling water, 
squeezed ‘dry, and floured. 

The water should boil quick when 
the pudding is put in; and it should be 
moved about for a minute, for fear the 
ingredients should not mix. 

ren °F pudding is done, a pan of 


PUD 
cold water should be ready, and the pud- 
ding dipped into it as soonas it comes 
out of the pot, which will prevent its ad- 
hering tothe cloth. 

A bread-pudding should be tied loose ; 
if batter, it must be tied tight over, and 
a batter-pudding should be strained 
through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. 
In others, the eggs only. If you boil 
the pudding in a basin or pan, take care 
that it is always well buttered. 

_ When you make your puddings with- 
out egys, they must have as little milk 
as will mix, and must boil for three or 
four hours. A few spoonsfuls of small 
beer, or one of yeast, is the best substi- 
tute for eggs. Your puddings will al- 
ways be much lighter if. you beat the 
yolks and whites of the eggs long and 
separately. You may, if you please, use 
snow. instead of eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. T'wo large spoonsful will 
supply the. place of one egg; the snow 
may be taken up from any clean spot be- 
fore it is wanted, and will not lose its 
virtue, though the sooner it is used the 

better. 

' .Puppine, Derbyshire.*—Take a pint of 
milk and two table-spoonsful of flour; mix 
it by degrees, boil it till thick, and set 
it by till cold; then add three ounces of 
butter, beaten to a cream, a quarter of a 
pound of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind 
of a lemon grated, the yolks of five and 
whites of three eggs; mix it thoroughly, 
put a paste round the dish, and bake it in 
aquick oven. It is very good cold. 

. Puppine Francgais.* — To make this 
pudding it is necessary to have a dome- 
shaped mould, four inches deep, and six 
in diameter, and a cover to fit the top 
completely, both full of holes, likea cul- 
lender; this mould must be buttered, 
and completely lined with a thin layer 
of paste, which must turn over its edges. 
Take two pounds of very round truffles, 
and, without washing, cut them into cir- 
cular pieces, a quarter of an inch thick 5 
fry these lightly in a quarter of a pound 
of warm butter, with a large spoonful of 
fowl glaze, half a glass of madeira, a pinch 
of megnonette, a little grated nutmeg, 

‘and+a proper quantity of salt.- Then 
arrange the truffles in your lined mould, 
pour in all the seasonings, turn the edges 
of the paste over them, and cover it 
besides with a layer of paste; put on the 
hid of the mould, tie it ina cloth, and boil 
it for an hour and a half... The saucepan 
should be quite full of boiling water ; 
serve the pudding as quick as possible 
after it is taken up. 

Puppines German.—A pint of cream, 
two table-spoonsful of flour, the yolks of 

five egge, two ounces of almonds beaten 


( 424) 


PUD 


a little, the crumb of a French roll, 
grated, sugar to your taste, the peels of 
two lemons, grated or shred small, and 
lastly, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
clarified and put in cool; pour it into 
buttered cups, and bake them as cus- 
tards; when you turn them out, pour 
over them melted. butter, wine, and su- 
gar. 4d than 

Puppines in Haste.—Shred suet, and 
put it with grated bread, a few currants, 
the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of 
two, some grated lemon-peel, and gin- 
ger; mix, and make it into little balls, 
about the size and shape of an egg, with 
a little flour. Have ready a skillet of 
boiling water, and throw them in. They 
take about twenty minutes boiling; but 
they will rise to the top when done... - 

Puppine (Quaking). — Seald a quart 
of cream; when almost cold, add to it 
foureggs well beaten, a spoonful anda 
half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; 
tie it close in a buttered cloth; boil itan 
hour, and turn it out with care, for fear 
it should break. Melted butter, a little 
wine, and sugar, for sauce. 

Puppinas, Queen’s.*—Slice some ap- 
ples as for fritters, butter a deep mould 
well; then-put a layer of French roll eut 
very thin and dipped in butter melted 
without flour or water; then lay a layer 
of apples with sugar and: lemon-peel 
grated; fill the mould in this way; if 
the apples require it, add some jnice of 
lemon, and brandy if you choose; last of 
all, cover the mould before you put it into 
the oven. o 

Puppsnes (Nelson).—Put half a dozen 


small cakes (cal;ed nelson-balis; or rice- - 


cakes, made in small tea-cups) into a 
Dutch oven. When they are quite hot, 
pour over them melted butter, white 
wine, and sugar, and serve. . + 
Puppine @ la Parisienne.*—Having 
minced a clove of the best vanilla, pound 
it with a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
and rub it through a sieve; shred three 
quarters of a pound of veal suet, and 
half the quantity of beef-marrow, and 
six ounces of rice flour; put these into a 
saucepan, adding to them seven’ yolks 
and two whole eggs, halfa glass of cream, 
half a glass of maraschino, a pinch of salt, 
the quarter of a nutmeg grated, two 
ounces of whole pistachios, four ounces 
of sweet macaroons bruised, the sugared 


vanilla, thirty preserved cherries, well: 


drained, and each cut in half, and half a 
dozen: apples chopped small; mix these 
ingredients together well, and then put 
them into a well-buttered cloth; tie it 


‘up, and fasten a weight of ten pounds to 


the centre of the pudding to prevent its 
falling to one side; put it into a large 





Pee a Mae 








aoe ae. 


a ae 


| 





Pee ee ee ee 





PUN 


(.425 ) 


QUA 


Saucepan filled with boiling hot water ;, (about Half a pound); upon this. sugar 


Set iton the fire, and keep it’ constantly 
boiling for four hours: then take it out, 
Ip-it an instant in cold water, re- 
move the cloth, and- with a very sharp 
knife remove all the outside of the pud- 
ding, strew powder-sugar over, and hav- 
ing cut two ounces of pistachios, each into 
six slices, fix them in like quills of a 
hedgehog. Serve itas quick as possible. 
Poppines (St. Germains).—Cut eight 
or ten oniuns into dice, and simmer them 
slowly in a quarter of a pound of lard ; 
when done, take them from the fire, add 
to them half a pint of cream, a pint of 
hog’s ‘blood, the yolks of six eggs, two 
pounds of bacon, cut. into dice, salt, 
and spices; mix these ingredients toge- 
ther well, put them into skins, and finish 
like Black Puilding. 
_Puppine*( Transparent). — Put eight 
eggs well beaten into a‘ stewpan with 
half a pound-of sugar, pounded fine, half 
a pound of butter, and some nutmeg 
grated. 
constantly stirring till itthickens. Then 
set it intua basin to cool; put a rich 
puff-paste round the edge of the dish ; 
pour in the pudding, and-bake it in a 
moderate oven. It will cut light and 
clear. Candied orange and citron may 
be added, if you think proper. 
‘PUITS @ Amour.*—Maving given the 
proper number of turns to some puff- 
ste, roll it out toabout a quarter of an 
inch in thickness ; then cut a piece with 
a paste-cutter, the edges of which are 
scolloped, then-cut two more pieces with 
smaller cutters, and place them on the 
first, press them down a: little on each 
other, dorez and bake them; when about 
three parts done, sprinkle them with su- 
gar, glaze them. th 
oven, take out the middle part, which 
fill up with any kind of sweetmeat or 
preserve you may think proper. 
Puncu.*—Thisis a delicious beverage, 
drank either hot or cold. It is composed 
of a mixture of lemon-juice and peel, 
sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in such 
proportions, that the liquor may be fla- 
voured with all the ingredients, but that 
none may predominate. By the -intro- 
duction of other articles, such as arrack, 
champagne, &c. to the above, it is called 
champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. 
The best method of proceeding is as fol- 
lows: pare your lemons very thin, and 
soak the peel in spirits; dissolve the 
sugar in the lemon-juice, then put in the 
spirits in the proportion of two glasses of 
rum to one of brandy, some strong green 
tea, and water at discretion. 
Puncu.*—Take a very sound lemon, 
rub the rind on a piece of fine sugar 


Set it on the fire, and keep: 


Draw: them from the 


pour halfa pint of strong green tea, boil-. 
ing hot ; a little syrup of capillaire, the 
juice of two lemons, strained ;. to these 
add a quart of brandy; set the whole on- 
the fire, agitate the flame with the punch. 
ladle, and when the liquor is reduced one - 
third, extinguish it, and pour the hot. 
punch into glasses... re 

Puncn.*—Squeeze the juice of six fine. 
lemons through a sieve into a China 
bowl ; grate some lemon-peel on. a piece 
of sugar, scrape off the surfaceas it be-. 
comes yellow, and dissolve the sugar in 
the lemon-juice; then pour in a bottle of: 
champagne, the same of rum,a bottle of 
brandy, and a little green tea; dilute 
these ingredients with hot water at dis-. 
cretion. The quantity of sugar must also 
be regulated according to taste. # 

Puncu, Fromage Bavarois.* — Infuse: 
the rind of two lemons, pared very thin,- 
in half a pound of clarified sugar; strain 
the infusion, and having added the juice. 
of three lemons, and six drachms of cla- 
rified isinglass to the infusion, finish in 
the usual way (see Fromage Bavarois) ;. 
add half a glass of rum or arrack to the 
cream. 

Punen, Transparent Jelly.* — Throw. 
into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds 
of twe lemons}. cover, and leave. the in- 
fusion to cool; in the meantime, filter the 
juice of five lemons into a basin; then 
strain the infusion through a tammy ; 
add a glass of good rum, or arrack, then 
an ounce of isinglass, and finish in the 
usual way. (See Clear Fruzt Jelly.) =~ 

Puncn, Soufiés Francais. of.*~Infuse 
six drachms of tea in nine glasses of boil-. 
ing milk; cover and leave it a quarter 
of an hour; in the meantime prepare 
your sougié in the usual way (see Soufflé. 


“Franeais); put in the infusion of tea, 


and at the moment. you are about to put 
in the yolks of eggs, add halfa glass of 
good rum or arrack, and the juice of four 
lemons; finish. your souflé as directed.’ 


' See the above-mentioned recipe. 


Puncu,. Syrup of.* — Make a syrup 
with lemons, as directed; see syrups, 
and when nearly cold, and well-flavoured, 
pour on it a bottle of arrack, or rum; stir 
it well to amalgamate the two liquids ; 
cover the vessel till the whole is quite 
cold, when it may be bottled. 


Q. 


QualILs, au Chasseur.*—Put the quails 
in a saucepan, witha little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper 3 set 
them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking 
them until they are tender, when adda 
ocalahes imam of flour, half a glass of 


QUA 


white wine, and a little stock, when this 
is thick, and quite hot (without boiling) ; 
take it from the fire and serve. 

QuaiLs,, a l’ Espagnole.* — Mix the 
juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, 
and pepper; pick, and prepare eight 
quails, stuff them well with the above 
mixture; then fasten the legs to the 
body, leaving the claws free ; truss them 
a good shape, and put them into a sauce- 
pan on slices of bacon, cover them also 
with slices, add a poélée, moistened with 
equal portions of ‘white wine and stock; 
set them on the fire for half an hour; 
then take them out, drain and untie the 
birds, place each on a piece of fried 
bread the size of the quail, and serve 
with a clear espagnole, with the addition 
of alittle glaze. ' 

Quaits, Gratin of.*—Take the livers 
of ten quails, pound, and mix them with 
some farce cuite, a little whole pepper, 
salt, and pounded spice ; stuff ten quails 
(previously boned), with some of this, 
forming them as near as possible to their 
eriginal shape; sew or tie them up. 
Mix the remainder of the farce with a 
ladleful of velouté, and spread it over a 
dish; set it on the fire a minute, and 
then place the quails on it, cover them 
with slices of bacon, and put it in a 
hot oven for halfan hour. When done, 
clear. away°the fat, and serve with an 
ltalienne. Bb #4 

Quarts au Laurier.*—Take eight very 
fresh quails; having picked and other- 
wise prepared them, stuff each with a 
farce made as foilows:—Take the livers 
of the quails, some fowls’ livers, grated 
bacon, bay-leaf, and shalots (both shred 
small), salt, pepper, and nutmeg, well 
mixed. Wrap the quails each in a piece 
of bacon and buttered paper, put them 
on-a skewer, and roast them. In the 
mean time, put two slices of ham, and 
some bits of veal into a stew-pan, set 
them on the fire, and when they begin 
to stick to the bottom, add a glass of 
whi'e wine, two spoonsful of consommé, 
the same of reduced espagnole, a bay- 
leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; boil and 
reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and 
strain it. Take up the quails, remove 
the paper and bacon, place them ona 
dish, and lay a blanched bay-leaf be- 
tween each; add a little lemon-juice, 
and pimento butter to your sauce, stir 
it well; pour it into your dish, and 
serve, 

‘Quaits @ la Milanese.*—Mix up the 
juice of.a lemon, pepper, and salt, with 
a bit of butter, and with this stuffeight 
quails; fasten the legs to the body, leav- 
ing the foot free; dip each quail in some 
allemande, then cover them with equal 


( 426 ) 


quantities of grated bread and parmesan - 
by one in an. 


QUA 


cheese ; put them one ; 
oinelet, then the bread and cheese again ; 


fry them gently in clarified butter, and. 


serve with a tomata sauce. | 


' Quaits, Hot Pie of.*—Make a raised 


crust in the usual way, spread over the 


bottom of it some farce cuife mixed with 


the livers of the quails, pounded, and 


some sweet herbs; take eight quails, 


take out the thigh bones, and half dress 


them in a little butter and sweet herbs 3. 
when cold, stutf each with some of the 
above-mentioned farce, arrange them in. 
ie intestines and the. 


the pie, fill up 
centre with the remainder of the farce, 


season it well, lay slices of bacon over. 
the quails; wet the edges of the paste 


with water, cover the pie with a very 
thin crust; do it over with egg, and deco- 


rate it according tofancy. Put it into” 
the oven to bake, an hour and a quarter. 


will suffice. When done, raise the top 
carefully, remove the bacon,take offal] the 
fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. 
Quails prepared as above, may also be 
put in croustades, made in the form of a 
heart, large enough to contain a quail $ 


eight are sufficient for a dish. 3 


Quarts, to Roast.—Truss the birds, 
and stuff them with beef-suet and sweet 
herbs, both shred very small, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg 3 fasten 
them to.a spit, and put them to the fire 3. 
baste with salt and water when they first 
begin to get warm; then dredge them 
with flour, and baste with butter. Put 


an anchovy, two or three shalots, and 


the juice of a Seville-orange into a little 
rich gravy; set it on the fire, sais 
about, and when the anchovy is dis- 
solved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the dish with fried bread-crumbs. 
These birds are sometimes roasted, 
wrapped first in a slice of bacon, anc 
then in a vine-leaf. hey should be 
kept at a moderate distance from the fire. 
QuaiLs, Stewed.—Put a litile butter 
worked up with flour, and a few green 
Onions into a stewpan ; when brown, put 
in some quails, a glass of wine, the same 
of stock, parsley, some more small 
onions,.a bay-leaf, and two or three 
cloves ; stew these till the quails are suf- 
ficiently done. Garnish your dish with 
cock’s-combs, artichoke-bottoms, fried 
bread, &c. : 
Quaits with Truffles. — Peel and cut 
some truffles into rather large dice, and 


put them into a saucepan, with equal 


quantities of grated bacon and butter, a 
little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, four 
kinds of spice, and a trufile, minced 
small; set them on the fire-seyeh or 
eight minutes; when cold, stuff some 





—— ee 





QUI 


quails with this mixture, truss and tie 
up the birds in proper form, and put 
them intoa saucepan, with slices of bacon 
under and over. Put into another sauce- 
pan some veal cut into dice, a carrot, 
seven or eight small onions, a clove, the 


trimmings of the traffles used above, half 


a bay-leaf, and a good bit of butter ; set 
these on the fire for a quarter of an hour, 
and then adda glass of white wine, and 
the same of stock, give it two or three 
boilings ; pour this seasoning over the 
quails, set them on the fire. Half an 
hour will be sufficient time to cook them, 
when done, take them out, drain and 
arrange the birds round the dish, with 
the sauce in the centre, on a reduced 
espagnole. 

QUENELLES.*—Take six ounces of 
panada, ten of whatever kind of meat 
you intend making the gwenelies, and 
eight ofcalf’s udder, all pounded sepa- 
rately, as fine as possible, and rubbed 
through a guenelle sieve; pound the 
meat and panada together for a quarter 
of an hour, then add the udder; and 
continue pounding fifteen or twenty 
minutes longer ; put to these five drachms 


of spiced salt, a very little nutmeg, and 


the yolks of two eggs; beat these up five 
minutes, then put in two more yolks, a 
table-spoonful of veloulé or béchamel, and 
pound again five minutes; then turn the 
whole intoa pan, and set it on ice. Have 
ready two or three deep dishes, and a 
saucepan of water (nearly boiling), in 
which put a dessert spoon, fill another 
dessert spoon with the farce, make the 
surface sees even with the edge of the 
spoon, this will give it the form of a 
half egg; dip the blade of a knife in the 
hot water, pass it over the top of the 
guenelle, and then raise it carefully 
from the spoon, by slipping that which 
was in the water under, and place it on 
the dish; proceed in the above manner 
until you have as many as you wish; 
then have ready some. boiling stock, 
with which fill the dishes containing the 
guenelles, (do it with the utmost care, 
so that the guenelles be neither displaced 
nor spoiled in shape), cover the dishes 
and set them on the edge of the stove to 
simmer. When done, drain them, and 
serve as occasion may require. 
QUINCE Cakes.—Pare and core half 
a dozen quinces, boil them till quite soft; 
then rub the pulp through a sieve, and 
strain it; mix this with half a pint of 
syrup of quinces, and the same of syrup 
of barberries, and a quarter ofa pound of 
fine sugar; boil the whole to cussé, and 
then pour it into small! shallow moulds, of 
any shape you please; let them cool a 
little, and then dry them in astove. 


( 427 ) 


QUI 


Quince Cakes Transparent.—Take a 
quart of syrup of quinces, and halfa pint 
of the syrup of barberries ; set them ona 
gentle fire, boil and skim them well ; then 
add two pounds and a half of fine sugar, 
keep. stirring until it reaches candy 
height ; then take it off, and when nearly 
cold, lay it, in any form you please, on 
tin plates. Dry them in a stove. a 

Quinces, Compote of.* — Take six 
quinces, cut themin halves, and core 
them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put 
some clear syrup into a preserving-pan, 
with the juice of a lemon; when hot, add 
the quinces,and give them a boil toge- 
ther; drain the fruit, arrange it in the 
compotier ; leave the syrup to thicken a 
little, and pour it over the quinces. 

Quince Cream. — Take four or five 
ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to 
soften them ; pare, core, slice them thin, 
and then boil them slowly in a pint of 
good cream, with a little ginger; when | 
tolerably thick, strain it, add sugar to 
your taste, and flavour it with rose- 
water, o 

Quince. Jelly.* — Quinces for jelly 
ought not to be quite ripe, they should, 
however, be of a fine yellow colour ; take 
off the down which covers them, quarter, 
core, put them into a saucepan, with 
water enough to cover them; setthem on 
the fire, and when soft, lay the pieces on 
a sieve to drain, pressing them very 
slightly; strain the liquor, and measure: 
it; clarify, and boil to cassé an equal 
quantity of sugar; then take it off, add 
the liquor to it, stirring it well; when 
mixed, putiton the fire, still stirring ; 
as soon as the jelly spreads over the 
spoon, and falls from it like treacle; take 
it from the fire, and when cold, pour it. 
into pots. : 

QuinceEs (to keep).*—Gather the fruit 
quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub each 
carefully with a clean cloth, to remove 
the down; then quarter, and put them 
into bottles, corked tight. Give them 


| half an hour’s boil in the dazn-marie. 


Quince Marmalade.—Gather the fruit 
when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; 
pare, quarter, and core it. Put the 
quinces into a saucepan, with a little 
water, set them on the fire until they are 
quite soft; then take them out, and lay 
them on a sieve to drain; rub them 
through, weigh the pulp; boil an equal 
quantity of sugar to petit cassé, then add 
the pulp, stir them together over the 
fire, until it will fall from the spoon like 
a jelly; the marmalade is then fit to be 
oy into pots, and when cold, cover them 
close. 

Qurnces (to Pickle).— Pare and cut 
half a dozen quinces into small pieces, 


QUI 


and put them, with a gallon of water, 
and two pounds. of honey, into»a large 
saucepan; mix them together well, and 
set them on a slow fire for half.an hour? 
strain the liquor into a jar; when quite 
cold, wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and 


put them into it; cover them:very close. 
-Quinces (Preserved), * + Choose the: 


quinces very ripe,:yellow,:and perfectly. 
sound; pare, quarter, and core them ; 
put them into:a little water, and scald 
them ;.as: soon: as: they are soft, throw 


them into-cold:water, then put them:to. 


drain. Clarify and boil. to déssé an equal 
weight of sugar, put in the-fruit, cover, 
and leave them-to simmer for a quarter 
of an hour 3 then take them from the fire, 
skim, and pour the preserve into.a pan. 
In two days’ time drain off the syrup, 
boil it-to perlé, add the fruit, give the 
whole ene boil, (covered); let it cool a 
little, and then simmer for a quarter of 
an hour, after which, leave it till next 
day ; when, proceed as above, but boil the 
syrup to grand perlé.. As soon as the 

reserve is cooled, pour it into pots, add= 
ing to each a little quince jelly. 

A little: prepared: cochineal added. to 
the above, will give the preserve a fine 
red colour; in which case thejelly ought 
also to be red. ey : 


 Quinces Preserved in White Jelly.— 


Take as many quinces as you: may re- 
quire, choose them sound ; pare, quarter, 
and core them, strewing powder-sugar 
over as you:do them, filling up all the 
holes also with sugar; throw in a small 


quantity of water, and when all are cut, 


add more water, and set them on a fierce 
fire:to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces 
are.tender, and the syrupclear, add some 
apple jelly, give the whole one:boil, and 
then pour it into glasses; when cold, 
Grain off the syrup and jelly, put them 
into a saucepan, and let them boil as 
quick as youcan; just befure the jelly is 
taken off, putin asmal! quantity of musk, 
or any other ingredient: you may wish to 
flavour the preserve with, and then pour 
it in the glasses again, over. the quinces, 
and when cold, cover thein. 

This may. also be coloured red by add 
ing a small quantity of: prepared: cochi- 


neal; in this-case, the jelly should be’ 


red too. . ; 


Quince Pudding.—Take a sufficient 


number of ripe quinces to yield a pound 
of pulp, to which put half a pound ‘of 


powder-sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of 


each two drachms,: pounded; mix them 
well, . Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in 
a pint of cream, add the quince, &e. stir 
the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the 
pudding in, and boil it. 

Quinces, Ratafia of.*—Take a gallon 


( 428 ) 


RAB: 


and a half of brapalys three quarts of tle» 
juice of quinces, three pounds of crushed: 
sugar, a drachm of: cinnamon, andthe: 
same of cloves, both: bruised. _ Proceed: 
as follows :—put the spice into the brandy: 
and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let: 
the scrapings lie for ‘twenty-four hours’ 
to ferment; :after that time put them: 


‘into a close linen cloth, and express the’ 


juice by ineans of a wine-press; add this: 
juice to the spiced brandy,:and leave it 
for:'three weeks or a-mon th, then. draw: 
it off; dissolve the sugary filter, and put? 
it to the ratafia. Coriander, or mace, or: 
both, may beiadded, if a)» Saas e Pee 

Quincegs, the Spanish /Vay.~-Pare and: 
core ten ponnds of: quinces, put’ them! 
into a stewpan witha pint and a halfof 
water and two pounds of fine sugar, set 


them on a’slow fire; and when they begin — 


todry, moisten them with rose- water and 
sack, or white wine ;.then press:the paste* 
through a coarse sieve, add two pounds: 
of sugar, alittle orange-flower, and rose~ 
water. When sufficiently done, it will 
come off clean, if dropped ona plate ; then’ 
set it aside tocool.. Put it into shallow 
pots, strew perfumed. comfits over, ‘and: 
cover them elosew:) 64°) # 2 He 2 yoo 
-Quinces, Syrup of.*— Pare and scrape 
some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth, 
press out the juice, which put ina-very” 
warm place, or where itis exposed to the’ 
sun, untikall:the feeula falls:to the bot- 
tom; then strain it well, and for every: 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one 
pound of sugar; mix them together, and 
boil the whole to perdé; take it off,-and’ 
when ‘the syrup is nearly cold, it may: 
be bottled. ‘Take care to keep the bot- 
tles well corked. -°: jos 4 
Quince Tart.—Take some preserved: 
quinces, make. a syrup with some sugar 
and water, of-which, and the preserve,. 
take an equal weight, and put it into-a 
preserving-pan ; boil, skim, and then 
put in the fruits when: tolerably clear, 
lay the quinces in a tart-dish with puff- 
paste as usual; cover and bake it; as soon 
as it is done, raise the top gently, pour 
in the syrup, ice it, and serve, 


Ro 


RABBITS:—The ‘rales :for ehoosite 


‘rabbits. are the. same: as for choosing 
hares ;. and observe the same rules as ‘for 
‘skinning and trussing hares, except, in 
skinning rabbits, .cut off the ears, and if 


two together are roasted, skewer each 
head against the shoulder outwards, with 
four or five skewers through the bodies, 
to fasten them well to the spit, Rabbits 














RAB 


may be dressed according to the receipt 
for chickens. " 

Rarsir (Afelets of ).*—Take the meat 
from some roasted rabbits, remove the 
skin and sinews, and cut the meat, some 
streaky bacon, champignons, and truffles, 
into pieces the size of a penny-piece ; 
dip all these in an atelet sauce, (see that 
article); have ready half a dozen silver 
skewers, on which run the above-men- 
tioned pieces alternately ; rub them over 


with melted butter and yolks of eggs |. 


beaten together ; broil them a quarter 
ofan hour; dish, and serve with a clear 
aspic. 

Rassits (¢o Blanch).—Put the rabbit 
on the fife in a little cold water, let it 
boil; as soon as it boils, take it out, and 
put it for a few minutes into cold water. 

ABBITS Botled.—Before they are boil- 
ed, hold the heads for a few minutes ina 
saucepan of water that is boiling, which 
will prevent the disagreeabie appearance 
they otherwise have in cutting up: they 
will take about half an hour boiling, ac- 
cording to their size. 

-If boiled, and smothered with onion 
sauce, melt the butter with milk instead 
of water. 

-Rapeit (Brotled).—Take a coupte of 
young rabbits, cut them up, and_ put 
them to steep fora few hours in a little 
oil, mixed with parsley, leeks, a few 
mushrooms, and a clove of garlic, all 
shred fine, salt and pepper; roll each 
piece of rabbit ia a rasher of bacon, and 

ut them, with a part of the seasoning, 
into pieces of white paper; butter the 
papers inside; broil upon a gridiron over 
avery slow fire, and serve hot in the 
Peas. 

ABBIT Fillets en Cartouche.* — Put 
into a pan, about the size of an egg of 
grated bacon, double the quantity of but- 
ter, four dessert-spoonsful of oil; make 
these quite hot, and add three dessert- 
spoonsiul of champignons, minced very 
small, and squeezed thoroughly ia a 
cloth; leave the pan on the fire for a 
quarter of an hour, then put in a spoonful 
of shalots, well washed and minced, give 
them a turn, and add the same of shred 
parsiey ; stir the whole together over the 
fire ; your fillets being ready, cut each in 
half, and put them into the above, with 
salt, pepper, and pounded spice; when 
they are brown on both sides take them 
out, and set them byto cool. In the 
mean time, cut as many square pieces of 
paper as you have bits of rabbits, and 
each large enough to contain the half 
fillets; rub them over with oil, lay a thin 
slice of bacon on every one, on this put 
the fillet with some of the above season- 
ing; wrap the paper over in the form of 


( 429 ) 


RAB 


a cartouche, taking care to fold the ends 
of the paper so that none of its contents 
can escape; place these on a gridiron 
over a clear fire, turn them frequently ; 
when done, serve them dry, or with a 
clear gravy, as you please. 

Rassit Brains, Coguilles of.*—Take 
the brains from sixty rabbits, soak all 
the blood out; scald them in a little 
water, vinegar and salt; cool, and trim 
them-nicely.”. Do up some champignons 
in the juice of a lemon and a little butter, 
then put them into some allemande ; give 
it a boil, add the brains, do them lightly, 
fill the shells with this; cover them with 
bread crumbs, grated parmesan, and a 
little butter; colour them in the oven, 
and serve. 

Razseits in a Fricassee.— Take two 
fine white rabbits, and cut them in pieces, 
by cutting off the legs, shoulders, and 
back; blanch them in boiling water, and 
skim them for one minute ; stir a few 
trimmings of mushrooms in a stewpan 
over the fire, with a bit of butter, till it 
begins to fry, then stir in a sposonful of 
flour; mix into the flour, a little at a 
time, nearly a quart of good consommé, 
which set on the fire, and when it boils, 
put the rabbits in, and let them boil 
gently till done, then put. them into 
another stewpan, and reduce the sauce 
till nearly as thick as paste ; mix in about 
half a pint of good boiling cream, and 
when it becomes the thickness of décha- 
melle sauce in general ; squeeze it through 
the tammy to the rabbits; make it very 
hot, shake in a few mushrooms, the yolk 
of an egg, anda little cream, then serve 
it to table. . 

Rabbits may also be preserved, white or 
brown, in the same manner as chickens. 

Raspir Galantine.* — Bone a rabbit 
entirely (except the head) take away the 
meat of the thick part of the thigh, lard 
it with seasoned lardons3} mince the 
meat taken off with the fillets of two other 
rabbits, take an equal quantity of bacon, 
minced, mix them together, add salt, 
pepper, pounded spice, and minced truf- 
fles ; lay the rabbit open on a cloth, sea- 
son, and spread a layer of the farce all 
over it, on this place tongue @ /’écarlate, 
truffles, and lardons, in small pieces; 
proceed thus, alternately, until the rabbit 
is full ; then form it, as well as you can, 
into its original shape; tie slices of bacon 
all over it, wrap it in the cloth, and tie it 
again; lay slices of bacon in a braising- 
pan, put in the rabbit, a knuckle of veal, 
the bones of the rabbit, two carrots, 
three onions (one stuck with cloves), two 
bay-leaves, alittle thyme, parsley, scal- 
lions, half a bottle of white wine, a ladle- 
ful of stock, and a little salt; set the pan 


RAB 


on the fire to simmer for two hours, then 
take from the fire; and in halfan hour’s 
time take out the rabbit carefully. When 
quite colil take it out of the cloth, glaze, 
and serve it. 
Rassits Gibelotte.*—Cut a. rabbit into 
pieces as near of a size as possible; make 
3 roux with a quarter of a pound of butter 
and two dessert-spoonsful of flour; when 
itis of a good:colour put in the rabbit to 
brown, adda quart of good. stock, and 
half the quantity of white wine, stir till 


it boils, then put in some champignons, - 


streaky bacon (previously browned), a 
bunch of parsley, scallions, a litt!ethyme, 
and a bay-leaf; set the whole on a brisk 
fire toreduce the liquor, season with salt 
and pepper to the taste. Toss up about 
thirty small onions ina little butter, and 
add them, with some bits of eel, to the 
above when about three parts done. ‘Take 
care to remove all fat ; take out the herbs 
andserve. - 

Rassir (en Hattelettes).—Cut up one 
or more rabbits, and stew them with half 
a glass of white wine, somestock, a bunch 
of herbs, salt, and coarse pepper ; when 
done, and the sauce reduced so as to ad- 
here to the meat, let them cool; then 
put’ the pieces upon small skewers, wet 
them with an egg beat up, and grate 
bread over them}; broil, and’ serve dry 
upon the skewers. ~ 

Rasait Loaf.*—Takea double mould, 
butter and fill the space round the smaller 
one, with a rabbit guwenelle (see that 
article); place your mould in the dazn- 
marie to simmer. When the farce.-is 
sufficiently done, turn it ona dish; take 
care no water gets into it; put into the 
space left by the smaller mould, the 
brains, ‘small fillets, and kidnies (lightly 
fried); mix some espagnole with -halfia 
glass of champagne and a fwmet of game, 
reduce this and pour it over the contents 
of the loaf; glaze the exterior, and serve. 

Raseits, Marinade of.*—Fake some 
cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieces, 
trim ‘them nicely, and ‘put them into a 
marinade (see that article) ; when. suffi- 
ciently flavoured, drain them thoroughly, 
put the pieces ‘into a batter, and fry 
them a nice colour. Serve with fried 
parsley. —- eats 

Rapert (Minced).—Take the remains 
of a roasted rabbit, cut-off all the meat, 
and mince it with a little roast mutton: 
Then break the bones of the: rabbit into 
small pieces, and put them into a stew= 


par with aslice-of butter, some shalots,: 


alfa clove‘of garlie,thyme,.a bay-leaf, 
and basil; give these a few turns over 
the fire, then shake in a little fiour; 
moisten with a glass of red wine, and the 
same quantity of stock, and let it boil 


( 430 ) 


RAB 


over a slow fire half an hour}; strain 
it off, and put in the minced meat, adding: 
salt and coarse pepper ; heat the whole, 
without boiling, and serve hot: garnish’ 
with fried bread. — e gen Pte 
Rapsits, in a Minute.* — Cut your 
rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly: 
dry; put aquarter of a pound of butter 
into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and- 
when warm, put in the rabbit with’ a 
little pounded spice, salt, pepper, and. 
grated nutmeg’ let the fire be brisk, and 
as soon as the pieces are browned, adda 
little shred parsley and shalots, leave it: 
three or four minutes longer on the fire,” 
and then serve. ‘Ten or fifteen minutes 
are suflicient to cook thisdish.* 
Rassit Pze.—Cut a couple of young 
rabbitsinto quarters, and bruisea quarter | 
ofa pound of bacon in a mortar, with the 
livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, 
parsley, cut small, and a few leaves of - 
sweet basil; when these are all beaten 
fine, line your pie-dish witha nice crust, 
then put a layer of the seasoning at the’ 
bottem of the dish, and put in: the rab-» 
bits; pound some more bacon. ina mor- 
tar, mix with it some fresh butter, and 
cover the rabbits with it, and over that. 
lay thin slices of~bacon; put'on the 
cover, and place itin the oven ; it will be: 
done in about two hours; when baked 
take off the cover, take out the bacon and: 
skim off the fat, and if there is notasuf-.. 
ficient quantity of gravy, add some rich 
mutton or veal gravy. ° wis és) 
Rasait Pie (Raised).—Cut your rab-' 
bits in pieces, and put them into a stew-. 
pan, with a bit of fresh butter, lemon-« 
juice, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, sha-- 
lots, chopped very fine, and a. little: 
pounded mace. hen the pieces of rab- 
dit are about: half done, lay them on a 
dish, and when cold; raise the crust; 
put light foree-meat at the bottom; the, 
rabbit-uponit, and more force-meat upon 
the top. 


take off the cover, and ‘add a ragott > 


of sweetbreads, cock’s-combs, &c., and” 


serve. | ena i 
Rassits Portuguese. — Cut off the 
heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the 


| backs upwards, the two ‘legs stripped to* 


the end, ‘and trussed with a couple. of 


skewers in the same manner aschickens, © 


the wings turned like the pinions of 
chicken; lard and roast them with good 
gravy; if they are intended for boiling, - 
they should:not be larded, but be serve 
with bacon, and greens, or celery sauce.” 
Rasesits (Potted).—Take two or three 
young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them 
up, and take off the leg bones at the 
thigh, season them well with pepper, 


Cover it, and put it in a mode- ° 
rate oven to bake gently ; when done,» 














RAB 


mace, cayenne, salt, Rol spice: all in 
very fine powder, and put them intoa 
small pan, placing them as closely to- 
gether as possible. Make the top as 
smooth asyoucan. Keep out the heads 
and carcasses, but take off the meat about 
the neck. Put plenty of butter, and let 
the whole bake gently. Let it remain in 
the pan for two days, then put it into 
small pots, adding butter. The livers 
should also be put in. 

_ Rassir Preserved.*—Having boned a 
rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; 
season it well inside and out, roll it up, 
beginning with the legs, make it tight, 
and tie it. Put itinto astewpan, with 
some oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil ; set 
these on the fire till done enough (but 
without boiling). When sufficiently 
cooked, take ont the rabbit, drain, let it 
cool, and then cut it into small pieces, 
which put into bottles ; fill them with oil 
and cover with wet bladders. When re- 
quired for table, take them out, cut them 
into fillets, and place on a dish with shred 
parsley and oil. 

Rapsits (Pulled). — Half boil your 
rabbits, with an onion, a little whole 
pepper, a bunch.of sweet herbs, a piece 
‘of lemon-peel ; pull the flesh into flakes ; 
ut to it a little of the liquor, a bit of 
utter rolied in flour, pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, chopped parsley, and the liver 
boiled and bruised; boil this up, shaking 
it round, and serve. 

Rapsit, Quenelles of.*—Take the fil- 
lets and legs of rabbits, separate the 
meat from the skin and sinews, pound it 
thoroughly, and rub it through aguenelle 
‘sieve ; take an equal quantity of panada, 
the same of butter, each pounded sepa- 
rately, and passed through a quenelle 
sieve; then pound all three together, in 
alittle time add salt, pepper, and spice, 
still pounding; add, occasionally, three 
yolks, and two whole eggs; when_snfii- 
ciently pounded, make up a ball of it, 
put it into a saucepan to try if it be pro- 
perly seasoned. Whip three whites of 
eggs to a very firm froth, stir it into the 
farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the 
pestle, and finish as usual. 

Raspit Quenelles en Terrine.*—Make 
your farce as usual, except that a smaller 

uantity of butter should be used,-poach 
them in balls, drain them, and lard each 
carefully with truffles, cut in smal] slips ; 
when larded, put.them into a stewpan, 
with cock’s-combs and kidneys, two 
small veal nuts, lamb’s sweetbreads 5 
put into another stewpan two ladlesful 
of velouté, one of fumét of game, half a 
bottle of madeira, and some champignons, 
previously fried lightly in a little water, 
and the juice of a lemon; reduce this 


( 431 ) 


RAB 


sauce to half, then take out the cham- 

ignons, and put them to the quenelles, 

ce} make a Hatson with four yolks of 
eggs and an ounce of butter, stir it over 
the fire, but do not let it boil 5 then strain 
the sauce over the guenelles, make the 
whole hot together, pour it into a tureen, 
and serve. 

Rassits to Roast. —They may be 
roasted with stuffing, and gravy, the 
same as hare. Serve with sauce made 
of the liver and parsley, chopped, in 
melted butter, pepper, and salt. 

Raspit Salad.—Take some crumb of 
bread and cut it into small pieces, the 
same as you cut bacon for larding 3; fry it 
in butter, let it be a nice colour, and 
then drain it; take the remains of a 
rabbit that has been roasted, cut the 
meat into slices, and.arrange it in the 
dish for table upon the fried bread ; add 
two anchovies, cut very sinall, and well 
washed, some capers, and some small 
white onions, boiled ; the whole taste- 
fully intermixed ; season with salt, coarse 
pepper, oil, and vinegar. The seasoning 
is not usually added until the rabbit is 
placedfupon the table. 

Rappits Legs au Soleil.*—Bone the 
legs, and lard them very closely with 
bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
poundéed spice ; warm some butter in a 
pan, putin the legs, and fry them lightly 
over avery hot stove; then add a dessert 
spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, two 
of velouté,a bay-leaf, some champignons, 
half a bottle of white wine, and a bunch 
of parsley and scallions; set iton a fierce . 
fire, to reduce the liquor; skim it well, 
and when done and sufficiently reduced, 
take out the rabbit legs, and set them to 
cool, stir the.volks of five eggs, anda small 
piece of butter into the sauce, and pour 
it over the legs. When cold, dip them in 
bread crumbs, and let them thoroughly 
imbibe the sauce alternately. Beat up 
five eggs witha little salt, and pepper, 
dip the legs.in, bread them all over, and 
give them a good form; fry them in a 
very hot pan to anice colour, and serve 
with fried parsley. 

Raseir Soup.*—Cut an old rabbit into 
pieces, put them into a quart of water; 
boil it well, take out all the bones, and 
beat the meat ina marble mortar, as for 
potting ; add a little salt, mace, and 
white pepper, to your taste; stir it into 
the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with 
the addition of:a very little cream. 

N.B. The meat of the whole rabbit is 
too much for one quart; query, would it 
not be enough for two? 

Rassits, en Surprise.—Roasta couple 
of young rabbits, cut their heads off very 
close to the shoulders; take off all the 


RAD 


meat from the back, cut it into small 
pieces, and put them into a stewpan, 
with some milk thickened with a bit of 
butter rolled in flour, a little nutmeg, 
and salt, and let them stew for six or 
eight minutes, until the sauce becomes 
of the consistence of cream; make a 
forcemeat with a pound of veal, the same 
quantity of suet, an equal quantity of 
bread-crumbs, two anchovies, some 
lemon- peel grated, a little thyme, anda 
nutmeg, grated; mix the whole together, 
with the yolks of two eggs; place it round 
the rabbits, leaving each side of the 
back-bone open to put the meat in which 
was cut off; lay in the meat, and smooth 
it over with a raw egg; make it square 
at both ends, butter a dish, and pnt the 
rabbits upon it with great care, and put 
them into the oven to bake for three 
hours; they must be done toa fine brown 
colour ; when done, place them on a dish, 
and pour over them gravy, thickened 
with butter, add the squeeze of a lemon. 

Raproves.*—Take a pound of flour, 
place it on a slab, make a hole in the 
middie, into which put three eggs, work 
them well in, until your paste becomes 
firm and smooth, then roll it out as thin 
as paper, adding as little flour as-pos- 
sible. Have ready some guenelle farce, 
mixed with a little grated Parmesan, bur- 
rage, (scalded and shred), some boiled 
milk, and cream cheese, nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, the yolks of two eggs, and some 
pepper, or a mignonetie. Lay this farce 
in small portions, at equal distances, 
over half the paste, moisten the edges, 
and turn the other half on it 3 press it 
down round the bits of farce, and then 
cut it into small square pieces; put these 
into some good stock, when they have 
boiled five minutes and rise to the top, 
take them out, and drainthem. Take a 
soup tureen, poura ladlefulof gravy into 
it, then put in a layer of the radzoles, 
another of Parmesan cheese, grated, 
some melted butter, and then just cover 
them with gravy. Serve very hot. 

RADISHES, az Blond.*— Boil in 
some stock, and drain your radishes, 
then put them into a stewpan, with veal 
élond; simmer them for half an hour; 
add a little nutmeg and verjuice ; stir 
them occasionally, and when the radishes 
are flavoured and well coloured, dish 
them, strew bread-crumbs over, and 
brown it in the oven. 

RapisHes, 7x Broth.* — Take some 
young radishes, pick and scald them, 
cut them into halves or quarters accord- 
ing to their size, and boil them witha 
slice of bacon in some stock. Ina 
little time take them out, drain, and put 
them into another stewpan, with con- 


( 432 ) 


sommé, or vea’ 





colour, and the sauce pretty thick ; then 
serve them. fee Fi 
Racout, Chipolata.* — Cut into the 


shape of an olive, twenty-four pieces of | 


carrots, the same of turnips, onions and 
chesnuts ; blanch, and then dress them 
in some consommé, with a little sugar ; 
boil a dozen small sausages, and as many 
slices of streaky bacon in water; put all 
your garnish intoa stewpan, with twenty 


champignone, a ladleful of espagnole, 


first working it up with the bottoms of 

the entrée, for which the ragout is in- 

tended. Serve as hot as possible. 
Racout, @ la Financiere.* — Take 


twenty-four large champignons, and as ° 


many truffles, cut into little balls, put 
them into a stewpan with half a bottle 
of Madeira, two allspice, a little tomata, 
and an ounce of veal glaze; reduce the 
whole to a jelly, and then add four 
ladlesful of espagnole ; work up two 
spoonsful of veal b/ond ; boil it up, set it 
on the side of the stove, reduce, and 
strain it, then put the champignons and 
truffles into another saucepan, pour the 
sauce over them, with the addition of 
twenty-four cocks’ combs, and kidnies, 
twenty-four guenelles, twelve lamb or 
veal sweetbreads, either sliced or not, as 
you please. ; 

Racout a@ la Providence.* — Take 
twenty pieces of well salted streaky ba- 
con, a8 many small sausages boiled, 
twenty champignons, as many guenelies, 
made of the shape and size of the sau- 
sages, peel and turn the same number of 
chesnuts, cut twelve truffles into balls, 
and put all these articles into a stewpan, 
with a glass of madeira, a little glaze, 
cocks’-combs and kidnies; add some 
clarified gravy, make the ragoft quite 
hot and serve. Twenty or thirty olives, 
turned and blanched, may be added, if 
you think proper. 

Ragout @ la Toulouse.* — Take the 


same ingredients as for the Financiere, - 


put them into a saucepan, with some 
half glaze of fowl, dress all together, ex- 
cept the guenelles; add aladleful of adle- 
mande. Put your ragout into the dain- 
marie, to heat it without letting it boil: 
If the sauce be too thick, dilute it with 
fowl consommé. a ‘ 

Ratsin /Vine.* — One hundred of 
Smyrnas to twenty gallons of water, wine 
measure; boil the water with half a 
pound of hops in for an hour; let it 
stand till cold; then put it on the fruit; 
let it remain three weeks, stirring it 
every day; pressit off, and put it into 
the cask; do not bung it down till the 








| 
: 
z 
| 
Hl 
: 








RAM 


stood about a year, 


brandy to a hogshead of wine. 


ag. 

N.B. The time for steeping depends 
on the warmth ofthe weather; when the | 
fruit is swelled ready to break, it is ina | 


fit state to press. 
' Raisin 


heat two or three days; then, to every 


hundred of fruit, put fifteen gallons of 


water; letit stand in the tub, stirring it 
every day till it becomes sour; then 
strain it off, put it into the cask, and fer- 
ment it with a toast covered with yeast ; 
lay a piece of slate over the bung-hole ; 
set it in the sun during the summer, and 
in winter in a warm place. 

- Raisin Vinegar.—To every two pounds 
of Malaga raisins, put four quarts of 
spring-water ; lay a tile over the bung, 
and set it in the sun till fit for use. A 
stone- bottle will doas wellasa cask. Plac- 
ing itin the chimney corner, and keep- 
ing it there a proper time, will do as well 
as placing it in the sun. 

RAMEQUINS.—Take a quarter of a 
pound of Cheshire cheese, scraped, the 
same quantity of Gloucester cheese, and 
beat them ina mortar, with a quarter of 
a pound of fresh butter, the yolks of four 
egys, and the inside of a French roll, 
boiled in cream till soft; when all is 
beaten to a paste, mix it with the whites 
of the eggs, previously beaten, and put 
the paste into small paper cases, made 
rather long than square, and put them to 
bake in a Dutch oven, til! ofa fine brown. 
They should be served quite hot. You 
may, if you think proper, add a glass of 
white wine. 

Ramequins.*—Take half a pint water, 
three ounces of Gruyére cheese, a little 
Parinesan, an equal quantity of butter, 
salt, and pepper; put them into a stew- 
pan, set it on the fire; when the water 
boils, take it off, mix sifted flour and 
eggs with it, as directed for Chowx ; pour 
your preparation into buttered tins, 
dorez them, and Jay on each a thin slice 
of Gruyére cheese ; bake them in a mo- 
derate oven. 

Rameguins @ la Créme.*— Put into a 
saucepan, two ounces of fresh butter, and 
two glasses of good milk ; when it begins 
to boil, take it from the fire, and add 
five ounces of sifted flour, mix this well ; 
then replace it on the fire, stirring con- 


stantly for three minutes; pour the paste 
into another saucepan, to mix it with 


( 433 ) 


fermentation has ceased; when it has 

draw it off clear, put 
it into the barrel again, and let it stand 
to settle before it is bottled ; before it 
is bunged down close, put a quart of 
What is | 
thick should be run through a flannel 


: tne Vinegar.*—After press- | 
ing off the wine, lay the fruit in a heap to | 





RAS 
two ounces more of butter, two of Parme- 
san cheese grated, and two eggs, these 
being thoroughly amalgamated, add a 
pinch of mignonette, aspoonful of powder 
sugar, an egg, and three ounces of Gru- 
yére cheese, cut into dice; work this 
mixture well, and put to it three spoons- 
fulof whipped cream}; your paste ought 
to be the consistence of choux: lay the 
ramequins rather smaller than the choux, 
dorez them in the same manner, and put 
them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. 
RASPBERRY Cakes.*—Gather some 
raspberries before they are quite ripe, 
pick, and lay them in a stove to dry; 
then beat them in a mortar. Take a 
pound and quarter of fine sugar, clarify 
and boil it to cassé; then weigh half a 
pound of raspberries, dried as above; 
throwthem into the syrup, with halfa 
spoonful of white of egg, beaten in 
cream}; stir it carefully, give it a boil, 
and pour it in moulds or paper cases. 
RASPBERRIES, Compote of.* — Choose 
your fruit when quite dry, and perfectly 
sound; pick them carefully, and put 
them into cold water ; boil some clarified 
sugar to Ja plume ; drain the raspberries, 


put them into the syrup, take the pan 


from the fire, and leave it. A little time 


after stir the fruit gently, give them one 
boil, and then put them into a compo- 


tier. 
RaspBerriss, Conserve of.* — Beat up 


a pound of raspberries to a syrup, to 


which add the juice of a quarter of a 
pound of red currants, strained; put. the 
pan on a moderate fire till the fruit is 
reduced to half. In the meantime, boil 
a pound and a quarter of sugar to la 


plume, then stir it continually till it 


whitens; when a little cooled, mix the 
fruit with it thoroughly, and then pour it 
into your moulds to dry. 

RasPBeRRY Cream.*—Whip some good 
cream to a fine froth; beat up powder- 
sugar with ripe raspberries, rub— this 
through a sieve, and mix it as lightly as 
posstble with the whipped cream; lay it 
carefully in a china bowl, or in glasses; 
if the former, garnish it witha string of 
ripe raspberries. 

Raspperry Cream.* — Boil an ounce 
and half of isinglass in as little water as 
possible, strain it, and add raspberry 
syrup sufficient to give it a pleasing 
colour; then add half a pint of white 
wine and two ounces of pounded-sugar ; 
all this to be put toa pint of thick cream, 
and to be well beaten before it is putinto 
the moulds. 

Raspperaiss, Créme of (&queur).*— 
Take four pounds of fresh gathered 
raspberries, pick, and infuse them for 


} four ay aeahy hours in a gallon and a 


RAS 


the end of that time, distil the infusion : 
dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar 
in seven pints of water; mix this syrup 
in the igqueur, filter and bottle. 

RAspBerry Dumplings. — Take some 
good puff paste, roll it out, and spread 
raspberry jam over it; rol] itup, and boil 
itrather more than an hour; cut it into 
five slices ; pour melted butter into the 
dish, grate sugar round, and serve. 

Raspserry Fritters. — Grate two Na- 
ples biscuits, or. the crumb of a French 
roll; put to eithera pint of boiling cream. 
When this is cold, add to it the yolks of 
four eggs, well beaten; beat all well 
together with some raspberry juice; 
drop this in very small quantities, into a 
pan of boiling lard; stick them with 
blanchedalmonds, sliced. 

RaspPBerry Ice.* — Press the juice 
from as many raspberries as will yield a 
pound and a half; put it into a glazed 
pan, and leave it for four days. Then 
carefully raise the skin that has formed 
on the top.of it, pour off the juice into 
another vessel; clarify a pound and a 
half of sugar, with a pint and a half of 
water, add the juice, and give them half 
a dozen boils ; if not sufficiently red, put 
in aroot of orkanet, which leave in till 
of the proper colour; strain the prepara- 
tion througha sieve; when cold, put it 
_ the sabotiére, and freeze it. See 
LOC} 4 

RaspBerry Ice (WV ater).* — Pick and 
erush as many raspberries as will yielda 
pound of pulp; put this into a pound of 
elarified sugar boiled to petit Lssé, with 
the juice of twolemons; mix them toge- 
ther well, if too thick add aglass of water, 
put the preparation into a mould, and 
freeze it as directed. See Ice. 

RaspBerry Jelly.t—Take two thirds 
ef raspberries, and one third red cur- 
rants; pick them, press the juice through 
a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in 
a cellar, or any other cool place for 
three days; at the end of that time raise 
the thick skin formed at the top, and 
pour the juice into another vessel ; weigh 
it, and put it, with half the quantity of 
“sugar, into a preserving pan, set it on 
the fire; a great deal of scum will rise 
at first, which must all be taken off; 
leave it on the fire for an hour; then 
poura few drops on a cold plate, if it 
coolsofthe proper consistence for jellies, 
take itfromthe fire, and whilst hot pour 
it into pets. Let the jelly be quite cold 
before the pots are covered. 

Raspsernies to Keep.* — This fruit 
may be bottled for keeping like cherries. 
‘They must not be more than just ripe. 

RAsPBERRIES of Marchpane.*—Takea 


( 434 ) 


half of brandy, and a quart of water; at. 


RAS 


chpane, the juice of four 
lemons, a quart a pound of raspberry 
jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these 
together with a strong wooden spatula ; 
then add two handsful of flour, and 
some powder sugar; when well worked 
up, roil them into pieces abont the size 
of a finger, cut these into dice, roil 
each into a ball, pinch the top intoa 
point, so as to resemble the fourm of a 
raspberry: then put them one by one 
into paper cases, which place in a dry 
warm place, for eight or ten days, At 
the end of that time, puta portion of 
syrup of raspberries, a little cochineal, 
and a small quantity of powder-sugar into 
a pan; mix them together with a spoon, 
and then throw into it a couple of hands- 
ful of the raspberries; take the pan in 
both hands, and shake it about, 60 
that the raspberries may be equally co- 
vered with the red syrup; then put sugar 
a@ la gréle on a large sheet of paper, 
spread it out a little, and while the rasp- 
berries are wet wiih the syrup, throw 
them into the sugar ; then take the four 
corners of the paper. shake itabout well, 
by which means the sugar will adhere to 
the raspberries in all parts, and give 
them a perfect resemblance to the real 
fruit; take them out carefully one by 
one, lay them on paper, and put them in 
a warm place for some days. These 






pound of mare 


artificial raspberries are of a pleasant 


flavour, and will keep several years. 
Raspperry Marmalade.* —— Take 
double the weight of raspberries to that 
of sugar. Rub the fruit through a sieve, 
and put the pulp into a saucepan ; set it 
on the fire, and stir till it is reduced to 
half; then pour on the sugar, previously 
clarified and boiled to petzt boulé, stir it 
well in, put iton the fire, give it a few 
boils, and then pour it into pots. 
RaspBerRriEs Preserved.*— Vake five 
or six pounds of red, bu} not too ripe 
raspberries, pick, and put them into a 
preserving pan, with an equal weight of 
clarified sugar, boiled to petit bouwlé; when 
they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim, and pour the whole into a pan till 
the next day, then drain the fruit, and 
put it into jars; put tothe syrup about 
two glasses of cherry juice, previously 
strained ; boil the sugar to da nappe, and 
then puur it over the raspberries; add 
afterwards, abouta spoonful of currant 
jelly toeach pot, and when cold, lay on 
brandy papers, and tie them down. 
Raspserry Ratafia.* — Take three 
pints of raspberry juice, and half a pint 
of cherry-juice; dissolve in these a pound 
and a half of fine sugar ; letit stand some 
time, and then add three quarts of the 
best brandy 3 strain it, and when quite 


¢ 











RAT 
clear, bottle it. Be ful to keep it 
well corked. ot ' 

_Raspperry Tart. — Line your dish 
with a nice puff paste, lay in sugar and 
fruit, put bars across, and bake. 

Raspserry Tart with Cream.—Line a 
patty- pan with thin puff paste,lay insome 
raspberries, and strew some very finely 
sifted sugar over them; cover them with 
pull paste, and bake it; when done, cut 
if open, and put in half a pint of cream, 
in which has been previously beaten the 
yolks of two or three eggs, and sweet- 
ened with a little sugar; when this is 
added to the tart, return it to the oven 
for five or six minutes. 

_Raspperry /4ine.* — Thoroughly 
wash, clean, and stone, three pounds of 
sun raisins; then boil two gajlons of 
spring water for balf an hour, as soon as 
it is taken off the fire, pour it into adeep 
stone jar, and put in the raisins, with six 
quarts of fresh raspberries, and two 
pounds of loaf sugar; stir the whole well 
together, cover the jar closely, and set 
it in a cool place, stirring it twice aday ; 
then pass it through a hair sieve, put the 
liquor into a close vessel, adding /one 
pound more of loaf sugar ; let it stand 
for a day and a night tosettle, after which 
bottle it, adding a little more sugar. 

Raspserry Vinegar, Syrup of.*—Take 
a large wide-mouthed glass bottle, pour 
into it two quarts of the best vinegar, 
and as many picked raspberries as the 
bottle will contain, taking care that the 
vinegar does come above them ; let these 
stand covered fora week. At the end of 
that time, pour both vinegar and rasp- 
berries on a silk sieve, pressing the latter 
lightly, that the juice may run through 
with the vinegar ; when perfectly clear, 
weigh it, and-put double its weight of 
fine sugar, crushed; pour the vinegar 
in, close the matrass, and set it in a 
moderately heated bain murie ; as soon 
as the sugar is dissolved, let the fire go 
out gradually, and when the syrup is 
cold, bottle it. The corks should be 
sealed, to exclude the air entirely. 

RATAFIA of Four Fruits.*—Take 
ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two 
pounds and a half of raspberries, five 
pounds and a half of red and two pounds 
of black currants; pick, and mix these 
fruits together, press the juice from 
them, measure it, and for every quart of 
juice, take half-a pound of sugar, and an 
equal quantity of brandy ; dissolve the 
sugar in the juice, then put in the 
brandy, a drachm of mace, and two 
drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand 
some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep 
them well corked. 

: RatrarirA Of Seeds.* — Take. three 


( 435 ) > 


REM 


drachms of each of the following seeds : 
anise, cummin, fennel, dill, coriander, 
carraway, and angelica; bruise and in- ~ 
fuse them for a month, in a gallon of 
brandy. Dissolve two pounds of sugar - 
in a pint of water, add this syrup at the 
end of the above-mentioned time to the 
infusion ; then filter, and bottle it. re 
RaTraFiA, without Sugar or Syrup.*—- 
Press the juice from some cherries into 
a pan, and leave it a quarter of an nour, 
then put it intoa large bottle, with the > 
kernels, and also some apricot kernels; - 
to this add (if you wish the ratafia a 
deep colour) the juice of two or three 
pounds of black-cherries. Put to your 
juice half or a third of its quantity of 
the best brandy; then bottle it, and 
when the fermentation has ceased, cork: 
the bottles. If the air is exctuded, this 
ratafia will keep for many years. 
RAVIGOTE.* —Shred small a little 


cchervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon 3 


this latter ought to predominate; (the 
mixture of these articles constitutes the 
ravigote) ; take some velouté, two des- 
sert spoonsful of vinegar, and a little 
whole pepper, make them quite hot, add 
a bit of butter and the ravizgote; stir. 
till the butter is quite dissolved, and 
serve, 

Ravigotr with O7/.*--Mince the ravi- 
gote, and put it into a saucepan with a 
ladleful of cold velouté, salt, and whole 
pepper, stir it well to mix it thoroughly, 
then add two ladlestul of oil, mix that 
well also, then pour in four or five dessert 
spoonsful of vinegar; keep stirring it till 
very smooth, and the meat or fish salad 
be ready for it to be poured on. 

REMOULADE.*—Put some mustard 
into a basin, and mix it up with some 
water, add to this a little shalot, and 
ravigote, both shrad, six spoonsful of oil, 
four of vinegar, some salt, and whole 
pepper ; mix them well in, and then put 
in the yolks of two raw eggs, and con- 
tinue stirring until the sauce is very 
smooth ; it ought to be rather thick. 

REsOULADE (Green).* —Scald a ravi- 
gote well, press, and pound it, then add’ 
salt, whole pepper, a glassfull of mus- 
tard, pound again, mix ina glass of oil, 
the yolks of two or three raw eggs, and 
four or five dessert spoonsful of vinegar 5 
when all these ingredients are thoroughly 
amalgamated, strain the whole through a 
bolting like a purée; it ought to be 
rather thick. If not green enough, add 
a little spinach essence. 

Remoutape, Jxdian.* — Pound the 
yolks of ten hard eggs to a paste, dilute 
it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one 
ata time, and continue pounding all the 
ss ee add about a dozen allspice, a 


RIC 
tea spoonful of saffron, four or five spoons- 
ful of vinegar, salt,and pepper; amal- 
gamate the whole perfectly, strain it 
through a bolting-cloth, and serve it in 
a sauce tureen. This sauce should be 
rather thick, as well as the preceding. 

~RENNET.—As soon as the calf is 
killed, take out the stomach, and scour 
it inside and out with salt, after it is 


cleared of the curd always found in it. 


Let it drain for a few hours, after which 
sew it up with two large handsful of salt 
in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; 
or keep it in thesalt, wet, and soak a 
bit, which will do over and over by fresh 
water. 

RENNET.—Prepare the maw the same 
as in the above receipt: on the following 
day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a 
handful of sweet-briar, a handful of 
rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty 
cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of 
knotted marjorum, and two large spoons- 
ful of salt, into two quarts of fresh spring 
water ; let them boil gently till the 
water is reduced to three pints, then 
strain it off, and when only milk warm, 
pour iton the maw. Slice a lemon, and 
add to it; in two days, strain it again, 
and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs 
may be put in also; take care that it is 
sufficiently salt. 

_ If the maw be again salted for a few 
days, and dried as abnve, it will be quite 
as fit for use as before ; it should be kept 
in a cool, dry place. A small quantity 
of the liquid is sufficient for turning. 

RHUBARB Tart.—Let the stalks be 
of a good size, take off the thin skin, and 
cut them into lengths of four or five 
inches; lay them in a dish, and put over 
a thin syrup of sugar and water} cover 
with another dish, and let it simmer 
slowly for an hour upon a hot hearth, or 
do them in a block-tin saucepan. As 
soon as cold, make it into a tart; when 
tender, the baking the crust will be suf- 
ficient ; or you may cut the stalks into 
little bits, the size of gooseberries, and 
make your tart the same as gooseberry 


tart. 

RICE Biscuits.*—Take the grated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen 
eggs, the yolks of six, half a pound of 
rice flour, ten ounces of powder sugar, 
two ounces of apple, and the same of 
apricot, marmalade, and two ounces of 
orange-flowers. Pound the marmalades 
and orange-flowers together, then add 
the whites of eggs, whipped to a snow ; 
beat the yolks with the sugar fora quarter 
of an hour, put them to the rest, and 
whenwell mixed in, add the lemon-peel 
and rice-flour; work all together, pour 
the preparation into paper cases, bake 


( 436 )- 


RIC 
them in 
them. 2 . Bs 

Rice Bread.—Take a pound of rice, 


_and let it simmer in two quarts of water’ 


till it is quite tender; when it is of a 
proper warmtli, mix it thoroughly with 
four pounds of flour, adding yeast and’ 
salt, the same as for other bread; the 
proper quantity of yeast to be used, is 
about four spoonsful ; knead it well 5° 
then set it to rise before the fire. A 
portion of the flour should be reserved 
to make up the loaves. If the rice 
should require more water, it must be 
added, as some rice swells more than 
other. ~ Wi 

Rice Cake.* — Take six ounces of 
ground rice, six ounces of flour, three- 
quarters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, 


nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten ' 


separately; mix all well together, grate 
in the rind of a lemon, and beat it well 
half an hour. 

Rice, Casserole of.*—Take a pound 
and a halfof Carolina rice, wash it tho- 
roughly in several waters (warm), and 
then put it into a saucepan, at least 
eight inches in diameter; moisten it 
with stock, in this oh aldir ; if the rice 
lies an inch thick, let the stock come two 
inches above it, and four ladlesful of fowl: 
skimmings 3 place the saucepan on a hot 
stove; when the rice boils, set it on the: 
side, and skim it; then put it on hot 
ashes, cover, and let it boil re for 
fifteen to twenty minutes; stir it, let it 
boil as before; in twenty or twenty-five 
minutes, stir it again; if by this time the’ 
rice is perfectly soft, take it off, but if not 
add a little more liquid, and continue 
boiling until it is so; place the saucepan 
aslant on the side of the stove that the’ 
fat may drain away and be taken off 
easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm, 
work it into a firm, smooth, paste, with a 
spatula; it can hardly be worked up too 
much, as every grain of rice ought to 
pass under pressure (if necessary, add 
more stock, a very little at a time). 
When the paste is thus thoroughly work-: 
ed up, form your casserole of it, first lay- 
ing it in a heap, four or five inches high,’ 
and seven in diameter ; do it with the 
hand as you would a raised crust ; make 
the ornaments of the outer surface with 
the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for 
the purpose, taking care that the deco- 
rations be detached froma the mass of 
rice, at least an inch 3 attention to this 
particular will not only add to the beauty 
of the form, but to the colour also, as the 
raised parts will be lightly coloured, 
while the ground will be quite white. 
When properly formed, mask the whole 
surface with clarified butter, and place it 


a moderate oven, and glaze 


ee Se 


a 
ill 


paliolg 








re 


- 








RIC 


in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by 
which time it will be of.a fine clear yel- 
low. ‘Take off the top of your casserole, 
clear away all the rice from the inside 
that does not adhere to the crust (which 
ought to be very thin), and mix it with 
béchamelle, espagnole, or whatever other 
sauce may be proper, put it in again, 
and then fill your casserole, with such 
ragouts as your‘fancy may dictate; glaze 
the surface of the outer ornaments, and 
serve it. 

Water, with butter and salt, is fre- 
 agoeee thought preferable to the stock, 

c., as the rice is thereby rendered much 
whiter. * - 

Ricr Cheese.*—Boil an ounce of rice, 
thick as hasty pudding, in rather less 
than half a pint of milk (new); pour it 
hot on an ounce and half of butter, the 
same weight of Lisbon sugar, mixing it 
well together; let it stand till cold; then 
add one egg, and the yolk of another, 
and a little white wine. 

Rice Cream.*—Mix some rice flour 
with half a glass of cold milk; then by 
degrees, add a pint more, aiso cold, and 
put it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, 
set it on a slow fire for an hour and a half, 
then strain and flavour it with orange- 
flower water, sweeten to your taste, and 
serve it hot. It should be stirred fre- 
quently whilst boiling; eggs may be 
added if you think proper. 

Rice, Croquettes of.*—Wash and scald 
a quarter of a pound of rice, put it into a 
saucepan, with the rind of alemon, shred 
smail, a quarter of a pound of powder 
sugar, a pinch of sait, a little crisped 
orange-flowers, an ounce of butter, and 
half a pint of milk; set these on the fire, 
and when the rice is quite soft, add the 
yolks of four eggs, stir them in over the 
fire, but do not let them boil; pour the 

reparation on a large tin or slab, spread 

t equally; Jet it cool, and then divide it 

into small equal parts; roll these into 
balls, dip them intoan omelet, roll them 
in bread-crumbs, and fry them in a very 
hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are 
of a nice colour, drain, sprinkle them 
with powder sugar, and serve them. 

Rice Custards without Cream.*—One 
tea-spoonful of rice-flour, a pint of new 
mijk, the yolks of three eggs, a table- 
spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel 
leaves boiled in), sugar to your taste; mix 
the rice very smooth, and stir it with the 
eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. 
Arrow-root is better thanrice. 

Rice Flummery.—Boil a pint of new 
milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and cin- 
namon: then mix just sufficient rice- 
flour, with a little cold milk as will make 
the whole of a good consistence, sweeten 


( 437 ) 


RIC 


according to taste, flavour with a little 
pounded bitter almond; boil it, taking 
care not to let it burn; pour it into a 
shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. 
When the flummery is cold, turn it into 
a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or 
custard, all round, or serve with sweet 
sauce in a boat. 

Rice Fritters.*—Boil the rice in milk 
with some powder sugar, orange-flower 
water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and 
a little butter ; when quite soft put toit 
a liaison of yolks of eggs, pour it intoa 
pan to cool.. Make your preparation into 
balls, about the size of an egg, dip them 
in egg, fry them, sprinkle them with 
sugar, and serve. / 

Rice, Géteau of.* — Boil a quart of 
cream, add to it half a pound of powder 
sugar, and three quarters of a pound of 
rice; when the latter is quite soft, dis- 
solve in it a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and then put in the grated rind of a 
lemon, let it cool. When quite cold, stir 
in four yolks, and four whole eggs, more 
if tke rice be very thick; butter a mould 
lightly, put the rice into it, place the 
mould in hot ashes, so that it may be 
completely enveloped in and covered 
with them}; in half an hour the gdétea 
will be done enough; then turn it out, 
and serve. If you wish, you can make a 
souflé, by whipping the whites of six 
eggs; like other souflés, in this case it 
should -be served in a silver dish. In 
putting the preparation into the mould, 
be careful not to fill it, as the rice would 
swell ard run over the edge. 

Rice Mi.k.*—Allow an ounce of rice 
for each person, wash it thoroughly in 
warm water 3 set some milk on the fire, 
and when it boils, put in the rice; con- 
tinue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring 
often for two or three hours ; add salt 
or sugar according to taste, and cinna- 
mon. 

Rice Pancakes.*—Boil half a pound 
of rice in a small quantity of water, until 
quite a jelly ; as soon as it is cold, mix it 
with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little 
salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of 
butter just warm, and stir in with the 
rest, adding to the whole as much butter 
as will make the batter thick encugh. 
They must be fried in as small a quan- 
tity of lard as possible. 

Rice Paste.* — Rub three ounces of 
butter well, into half a pound of ground 
rice, moisten it with water, and roll it 
oat with a little flour. 6 

Rice Pudding, Boiled.* — Take six 
ounces of whole rice, and when suffici- 
ently boiled, stir in a table-spoonful and 
a half of suet, shred fine ; when that is 
re take it up, add one egg, and two 
“a J 


RTC 
ounces of ‘moist sugar. Boil these toge- 
ther three quarters of an hour. i 
' Rice Pudding, with Currants.*—Tie 
five ounces of whole rice in a cloth, leav- 
ing it room to swell, boil it half an hour, 
then take it up, add three tablespoons- 
ful of suet, shred fine, five ounces of cur- 
rants, and two eggs, well beaten; tie it 
up again, and boil it an hour and a half. 

Rice Pudding, Boiled.* — Well wash 
and pick some rice, tie it in a cloth, leav- 
ing plenty of room for it to swell. Boil 
it ina quantity of water for an hour or 
two. hen done, eat it with butter and 
sugar, or milk. , 

Rice (Dutch) Pudding. — Soak four 
ounces of riee for half an hour, in warm 
water§, then drain the water from it, and 
put it into a stewpan, with halfa pint of 
milk, halfa stick of cinnamon, and let it 
simmer until tender. When cold, add 
four whole eggs, well beaten, three oun- 
ces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a 
good-sized piece of lemon-peel, and two 
ounces of butter melted in cream. Line 
adish or mould, with light puff paste, 
put in the above, and bake in a quick 
oven, 

Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the 
rice in a little milk over the fire; then 
mix with it either currants or goose- 
berries scalded, or apples pared and 
quartered, raisins, or black currants, 
add one egg to the rice, to bind it; 
boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

Rice (Ground) Pudding.—Boil a very 
large spoonful of ground rice ina pint of 
new milk, with lemon-peel and. cinna- 
mon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, 
and two eggs well beaten; put a puff- 
paste round your dish, put in the above, 
and bake. 

Rice Puddings, Small.—Simmer. two 
large spoonsful of rice in half « pint of 
milk until it is thick, then add to ita bit 
of butter the size of an egg, and about half 
a pint of thick cream, and give it one 
boil. When cold, mix the yolks of four 
eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten, 
sugar and nutmeg according to taste, add 
eee lemon, and a little cinnamon. 

utter some little cups, lay sone orange 
or citron at the bottom, and fill them 
about three parts full with the above. 
Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow 
oven. Serve the moment before they 
ue to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a 

oat. 

Rice Savoury. — Carefully wash and 
pick some rice ; set it to stew very gently 
in a little veal or rich mutton broth, add 
an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and 
salt. When it is swelled it should not 
be boiled to mash 3; put it to dry on the 
shallow end of a sieve before the fire. 


( 438 ) 






ROA 


/You may serve itdry, or put it in the 


middle of a dish, and pour the gravy 
round, having first heated it. wits 

Rice Soup.— Carefully blanch some 
well picked rice, then drain it on a sieve ; 
put about a teacupful in the soup pot, 
with one head of celery, and a quart of 
consommé, and let it simmer by the side 
of the stove forthree hours. If it thickens 
too much add more consommé, season 
with a little salt; take out the celery, 
and send the soup to table. Ae 

Ricse Soup.*—Wash your rice well in 
warm water, changing it frequently; then 
put the rice into a saucepan, with some 
good stock ; set it on the fire, and leave 
it to swell for half an hour, but do not let 
it boil; when the rice has imbibed all the 
stock, add a sufficient quantitv to cover 
the rice, cover, and boil it slowly for 
two hours; in the mean time broil two 
or three slices of beef, and pepper and 
salt them well; when of a nice dark 
colour, throw them into the rice soup, to 
which they will impart a rich flavour 
and a fine colour. : 

Riced la Vénitienne.*—Boil come rice 
in good broth, and when soft, mix them 
with beef marrow, pounded almonds, 
sugar, and orange-flower water ; set these 
on a gentle fire, and when of a gcod con= 
sistence, pour it on a dish; glaze, and 
colour it with a salamander. 

RISSOLES 4 ia d’ Artois. —Make a 
sort of forcemeat of chicken, partridge, 
rabbit, for sweetbread, &c., (see Cro- 
quettes), and make a ressole paste, (see 
Coliops), which roll owt very thin; make 
the forcemeat into little round balls, and 
place them at equal distances on the 
paste; egg them lightly, and turn the 
end over ; cut them with the gigging iron 
to the shape of a scallop, prick each of 
them, and fry them quickly in lard; lay 
them on bape as you do them; serve 
shew very hot, with a napkin under 
them. j 

ROACH.—The roach is a very coarse 
and bony fish: those which are taken 
from rivers are very superior to those 
which are taken from ponds. They are 
in season in April and May. 

Roacu_Boiled.—Scale, gut, and wash 
them ; wipe them, cut them in three or 
four places on the sides ; put intoastew- 
pan some small-beer, vinegar, and water, 
(enough to cover the fish), some salt, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a stick 
of horse-radish sliced ; when it boils, put 
in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce. ~ 

Roaca Fried. — Scale and gut the 
roach, wash them in salt and water 
wipe them exceedingly dry: flour, an 
fry them in boiling lard; they must be 
brown and crisp; lay them in a warm 








ROO 


dish; pour the fat out of the pan, put in 
a piece of butter, and when it boils, fry 
some sage and parsley crisp; lay it on 
the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. 
ROCAMBOLE, or Wild Garlic.*— 
Peel some rocamboles, and put them into 
a saucepan of boiling water ; set them 
on the fire, until they will yield easily to 
pressure, then throw them into cold 
water. Reduce some velouté, thicken 
it a little, and the rocamboles being could, 
drain, and put them in; give them a toss 
over the fire, and then serve. 
ROLLS.—Warm an ounce of butter in 
half a pint of miik, then add a spoonful 
anda haif of yeast of small-beer, anda 
little salt. Put two pounds of flour into 
& pan,and putintheabove. Setit to rise 
for an hour ; knead it well; make it into 
seven rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. 
Rous (French).— Rub one ounce of 
butter into a pound of flour; then add to 
it one egg beaten, a little yeast that is 
not bitter, aad a sufficient quantity of 
milk, to make a dough of moderate 
stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead 
it; let it rise, and bake on tins. 
Routs (French).—Warm three spoons- 
ful of milk, and the same quantity of 
water, with a bit of butter the size of a 


walnut, put it to two spoonsful of thick | 


yeast; put this into the middle of rather 
mere than a quart of flour, mix the whole 
together to the consistence of a batter- 
pudding, adding more flour if necessary, 
to make it the proper thickness; strew 
a little flour over it. from the sides, and 
if the weather is cold, set it at a little dis- 
tance from the fire; do this three hours 
before it is put into the oven; when it 
breaks a a, deal through the flour and 
rises, work it into a light paste with more 
warm milk and water ; let it lie till with- 
in a-quarter of an hour of setting into the 
oven, then work them lightly into rolls ; 
flour a tin, and drop them on, handle 
them as little as possible ; set them before 
the fire. Abeut twenty minutes will be 
sufficient time to bake them ; puta little 
salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. 

Rouus Short (Hot).*—Dry before the 
fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
three penny rolis, or larger if you like; 
add to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, 
two spoons{ul of yeast, and a little warm 
milk; make it into a light dough, let it 
stand by the fire all night. Bake the 
rolls in a quick oven. 

ROOTS (Petites Racines).* — Cut 
some young carrots into small pieces 
about an inch anda half long, makethem 
round, and keep all as near of a-size as 
possible; put them into a saucepan of 
boiling water, and let them boil five mi- 
nutes, then change them into cold water, 


( 439 ) 


ROS 


ond foleh like Rocamboles (see that ar- 
ticle). 

ROSES, Candied.*—Crisp two hands- 
ful of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, 
boil them to fort soufflé, then take the 
pan from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let 
the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing 
the latter in your hands, then dry them 
in a stove. Boil your sugar again to 
sougié, adding a little carmine to colour 
it, and finish itin the same manner as 
Jonquils, Candied. (See that article.) 

Roses, Conserve of .*—Boil halfa pound 
of sugar to fort soufilé, pour into this sy- 
rup the best double-distilled rose- 
water; boil it again to fort perlé, mix 
with it a little prepared cochineal or car- 
mine to colour it, and pour your conserve 
into moulds. 

Rosse (Red) Drops.* — Take a small 
quantity of red bastard saffron, and a 
little calcined alum, boil these in some 
water until it is sufficiently tinged for 
your purpose; then filter or strain it 
through a very close linen cloth; put 
five or six spoonsful of sifted sugar into 
the pan, dilute it witn the eoloured wa- 
ter, work it well with the dovs a tadbeller, 
and set it over a chafing-dish; when it 
begins to boil, add two more spoonsful of 
sugar, and having worked it well, per- 
fume it with some drops of essence of 
roses, and finish as directed. (See 
Orange-flower Drops.) 

Rose Gdteaux Soufflés.* — Take a 
handful of rose-leaves and a pound of 
sugar; boil the latter to petit boulé or 
petit cassé, then put in the roses, increase 
the boiling to cassé ; have ready a glace 
royale, made with the white of an egg, 
iinged a delicate rose-colour with a little 
carmine, mix this with your syrup and 
roses, stirring it rapidly; when the sue 
gar rises the second time, pour it into 
the mould. 

Rose Ice Cream.*—Put a quart of rich 
cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, 
when itboils take it offand put inahandful 
of fresh rose-leaves ; leave them to infuse, 
keep them covered for two hours; then, 
if the eream be cold, strain and pour it 
on tke yolks of nine eggs, beat. them up 
well, add three quarters of a pound of 
powder-sugar; set it. on a slow fire, and 
stir it constantly till it thickens, taking 
care that it does not boil. Run it through 
a bolting, and when cold, colour it with 
a little carmine. dissolved in clarified su- 
gar; put it intoa sahotiére, and freeze as 
usual. (See Ice.) 

Rose Jelly.*—Make a clear apple- 
jelly, colour it with cochineal infused ia 
double-distilled rose-water, and just be- 
fore the last boiling put in half a glass of 
the best double-distilled rose-water. 


ROS 


* Rosrs, Oclof.*—Take three pounds of 
picked roses, and distil them by bain- 
marie intwo quarts of brandy. Dissolve 
two pounds and a half of sugar ina pint 
and a half of river water, boil it up twice; 
when cold, add tv it half a pound of 
double-distilled rose-water; mix it with 
the brandy, filter, and bottle it. 

This Ugueur is greatly improved by 
dissolving the sugar in cold rose-water. 

Rose Water, Double-distilled.*—The 
rose generally chosen for this purpose, is 
thecommon pale (single or double) rose, 
but the white rose is best of all. Gather 
the flowers in fine weather, two hours 
after sun-rise ; take out the calix, and se- 
parate the leaves, pound them in a mar- 
ble mortar to a paste, and leave them 
five or six hours in the mortar; then put 
them into a large close cloth, and let two 
persons wring it with all their strength. 
Having by this operation obtained four 
pounds of juice, infuse in it an equal 
weight of fresh rose-leaves for twenty- 
four hours ; at the endof that time put 
the whole into the alembic, which place 
in a sand-bath, and distil it according to 
rule. (See Distilling.) 

When you have collected about an 
ounce of the water, unlute the receiver, 
and if that which issues from the still is 
as odoriferous as that which proceeded 
first, continue the operation; but if not, 
collect it into another vessel, as this se- 
cond water is only single, and must be 
kept separate from the first, which is 
the Essential Water. Should the se- 
cond water have an unpleasant smell 
(caused by the application of too much 
heat), expose it to the sun fora few days, 
covered only by a sheet of paper. The 
utmost care is necessary in distilling this 
and all other odoriferous substances. 

A still more powerful essence than the 
above may be procured by the following 
method :—Gather as many roses as will 
afford thirty pounds of leaves, pound 
these with four Male 2 of salt; when 
pounded, place the paste in a vessel in 
layers with salt between each, press 
them closely, cork them tizht, leave the 
vessel twelve days, and then distil as 
usual. 

Rose Water, Single.*—Put four pounds 
of rose leaves into a pan, with three 
quarts of river water, and leave it four- 
and-twenty hours} then putitintoa me- 
tal alembic, and distil from it as much 


odoriferous water as you can, being sure. 


to stop the moment you observe the 
phleghm. Take off the alembic, throw 
away its contents, and rinse it out well; 
after this, fill it to two-thirds with fresh- 
gathered rose-leaves, on which pour the 
above drawn rose water; distil this, and 


(40) - 


ROU 


when you have procured as much good 
rose-water as it will yield, let the fire go 
out gradually. ar 
Rose Vinegar.* — Infuse rose-leaves 
in the best white vinegar, leave it where 
it will be exposed to the sun for ten days ; 
then draw it off, pressall the liquor from 
the dregs, filter and bottle it. Keep the 
bottles well corked. ; ay 
ROSEMARY Vinegar.* — This is 
made in the same manner as Lavender 
Vinegar. =. Ae 
ROSSOLIS.*—Take three quarters of 
a pound of picked orange-flowers, a 
pound of musk roses,’ six drachms of 
cinnamon, and two of cloves (both 
bruised) ; put them into a cucurbite with 
three gallons of pure water; on distilling 
this, it will yield a gallon and a half, in 
which dissolve twelve pounds of fine su- 
gar broken up; add to it an equal quan- 
tity of spirit of Jessamine, colour it crim- 
son with cochineal, filter and bottle it. 
ROTI, Sans Pareil.* — Fill a good- 
sized olive with chopped capers and an- 
chovies, soak it in oil, and put it into a 
becca-fica, or any other equally delicately 
flavoured small bird; enclose this in a 
larger one, such as an ertolan; then take a 
lark, cut off the head and feet, put the 
ortolan in it, cover it with a thin slice of 
bacon, the lark into a thrush, the thrush 
into a quail, the quail into a lapwing, 
this into a plover, then a partridge, en- 
close the partridge in a woodcock, then 
a teal, a turkey-poult, a wild duck, a 


pullet, and a pheasant, cover this latter | 


with a goose, after which a turkey, and 
enclose the whole in a bustard. If in 
proceeding as above, any spaces are left, 
fill them up with a farce made of truffles, 
chesnuts, and sausage-meat; put it into 
a large saucepan with small onions stuck 
with cloves, carrots, ham, cut in small 
pieces, celery, a bouquet garni, 2 mi- 
gnonette, slices of bacon, a clove or two 
of garlic, pepper, salt, spices, and co- 
riander; set your saucepanona gentle 
fire or in a moderate oven for twenty- 
four hours; skim, and serve it very hot. 

UX.*—Put a pound of butter into 
a saucepan, shake it about till dissolved 
when add a sufficient quantity of sifted 
flour, to make it the consistence of 
thick dowtlli; then set it over a fierce 
stove, and stir it until it begins to 
take colour, when make a good fire of 
cinders, place the row on it, and let it 
stand to increase in colour; it ought to 
be ofa clearlight brown. Set it by, and 
use it as Occasion may require. 

Roux, White.*—Prepare your butter 
and flour as aboye, place’ it on a mode- 
rately heated stove, stirring it constantly 
till very hot; be careful that it does not 








SAG 


take colonr at all, for the whiter it is the 
more des‘rable. 

RUFFS und Rees.—These are parti- 
cularly delicate birds, and should there- 
fore be handled very lightly in the pick- 
ing; they must be run, side by side, 


upon a long skewer, and roasted for - 


twelve or fourteen minutes ata good dis- 
tance from the fire, and basted with but- 
ter; serve with good gravy in the dish, 
and bread eauce ina boat. 

RUM Jeliy.—To a quart bottle of com- 
mon white wine, add a pound of lump 
sugar reduced to a syrup and clarified ; 
then take an ounce of isinglass, dissolve 
it thoroughly, strain it through a sieve, 
and mix it with the syrup milk warm ; 
when this mixture is nearly cold, pour it 
into the white wine, stir it well so as to 
mix it completely; then add a spoonful 
(or rather more, according to thestrength 
you desire) of old Jamaica rum; stir it 
and pour it into a mould, or glasses, if 
intended to hand round for evening 
parties. 

RUSKS.—Melt four ounces of butter. 
in half a pint of new milk; then add to 
this seven eggs well beaten, a quarter of 
a pint of yeast, and three ounces of 
sugar, put this mixture, by degrees, 
into as much flour as will make an ex- 
tremely light paste, more like batter, 
and set it to rise before the fire for half 
an hour; then add more flour to make it 
rather stiffer, but not stiff. Work it well, 
and divide it into small loaves or cakes 
about five or six inches wide, and flatten 
them. When baked and cold, slice them 
the thickness of rusks, and brown them 
a little in the oven. 


S. 


,SAGO.—Let it soak for an hour in 
cold water, to take off the earthy taste ; 
pour that off, and wash it well; then add 
more water, and simmer gently until the 
berries are clear, with lemon-peel and 
spice. Add wine and sugar according to 
taste, and boil all up together. 

Saco Milk.— When well cleansed, boil 
it slowly with new milk. A small quan- 
tity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, 
it swells so much, and when done, it 
should. be reduced to about a pint. It 
requires neither sugar nor flavouring. 

Saco Pudding. — Boil two ounces of 
sago with some cinnamon, and a bit of 
lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick ; mix 
the crumb of a small roll finely grated, 
with a glass of red wine, four ounces of 
chopped marrow, the yolks of four eggs 
well beaten, sugar according to taste; 
when the sago is cold, add this mixture 


( 441 ) 


SAL 

to it; stir the whole well together, and 
put it in a dish lined witha light puff- 
paste, and set it ina moderate oven to 
bake; when done, stick it all over with 
citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanch- 
ed and cut in slips. , 

Saco Pudding. — Boil two ounces of 
sago until tender, ina pint of milk 5 when 
cold, add five eggs, two Naples biscuits, 
a little brandy, and sweeten according to 
taste; put this into a basin and boil. 
Serve with melted butter mixed with 
wine and sugar. 

Saco Pudding.*—Wash half a pound 
of sago in several waters (warm); then 
put it into a saucepan with a pint of good 
milk, and a little cinnamon; let it boil 
till thick, stirring frequently ; pour it. 
into a pan, and beat wp with it halfa 
pound of fresh butter ; add toit the yolks 
of eight, and whites of four eggs, beaten 
separately, half a glass of white wine, 
sugar according to taste, and a little 
flour; mix all together well, and boil it. 
Serve with sweet sauce. 

Saco Soup.— Wash your sago in the 
same manner as rice, and boil it in fowl 
consommé until quite a jelly ; have ready 
a purée of game, heated in the bazn- 
marie ; mix the sago with this, whilst 
both are boiling hot; if too thick, add 
more fowl! consommé, and glaze of game; 
soak your bread as usual, and serve the 


soup. 

SALAD.*— Take one or two lettuces, 
split them in two, thoroughly wash them, 
and drain the water from them; then cut 
them into small pieces, and intermix 
them with small salad, celery, and beet- 
root, cut in pieces, some nice young 
radishes cut into small pieces, sliced 
cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut 
into pieces, and garnished about; then 
make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs, 
boiled hard, which rub well together in 
a basin with a wooden spoon ; add a little 
pepper, salt, and mustard ; when these 
are mixed to a smooth paste, put in a 
few tea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it 
well between each spoonful, then mix in 
a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same 
manner. When the sauce is mixed ac- 
cording to the directions, it will never 
require shaking, and will always look like 
cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, 
or serve it in a cruet. 

Satap (Parisian).* — Take five very 
red carrots, and as many turnips, cut all 
these with a root-cutter into round pieces 
an inch long, and three-eightbsof an inch 
in diameter; cut some asparagus heads 
and French beans of the same length ; 
toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, 
salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and 
minced shalot. Cut three large par- 


SAL 


boiled potatoes, and a red beet-root, into 
slices half an inch thick, one wide, and 
two and a half long ; cut these again into 
long triangles; place them on a dish 
alternately; that is, the slices of potatoe 
with the point upward, and the beet-root 
between each, with the point downwards; 
set them round the dish, so as to ferma 
crown six inches in diameter ; to give it 
consistence, pour over the bottom of the 
dish some aspic jelly, and put it on ice to 
set it; then take thirty champignons, 
pierce the centre of each, and in these 
holes stick asparagus’ heads, French 
beans, carrots, or beet-root, all cut into 
round pieces, an inch and a half long; 
dip the champignons into aspic jelly, a 
little set, and place-them alternately on 
the beet-root; when al! are done, pour 
your macédoine of carrots, &c., into the 
crown; mask it lightly with a white 
magnonnaise, in the centre fix a fine let- 
tuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or 
quarters, and serve your salad. 

SALLY Lunns.*-— Take three quarts 
of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, melted ina 
suilicient quantity of milk to dissolve it, 
the yolks ef three exgs, anda little salt: 
make these ingredients into a light 
dough, let it stand before the fire (co- 
vered), for an hour to rise, and bake in a 
quick oven. The above may be made 
into small cakes. 

SALMAGUNDY. — This is a very 
pretty small dish, if in nice shape, and 
if the colour of the ingredients are varied. 
For this purpose, chop separately the 
white part of a cold chicken, or veal, the 
yoiks of four or five eggs, and the same 
numer of whites of eggs 3 a large hand- 
ful of parsley, six anchovies, some beet- 
rout, pickled red cabbage, hara, and 
grated tongue, or any thing well fla- 
voured, and of a good colour. Put a 
saucer or china bason into a round dish, 
or a smaller dish into along one, then 
make rows round it, wide at the bottom, 
and growing smaller towards the top; 
making choice of such of the ingredients 
for each row as will most vary the colour} 
spun butter at the top, or butter worked 
into what is liked, or a little sprig of 
curled parsley may be stuck in. You 
need not, unless you please, put any 
thing in the dish, as the salmagundy may 
be laid in rows, or put into the half- 
whites of eggs, which may be made to 
stand upright by cutting off a little bit 
at the round end. In the latter case, 
each half egg has but one ingredient. 
Curled butter and parsley may be put as 
garnish between. 

SALMON.—When salmon is fresh and 
good, the gills and flesh are of a bright 


SAL 


red, the scales clear, and the whole fish’ 


is stiff. When just killed, there is a 
whiteness between the flakes, which 


gives great firmness; by keeping, this. 


melts down, and the fish becomes richer. 
Satmon Baked. —Cut a nice piece of 


salmon into slices about an inch thick 5- 


make a forcemeat as follows : — take 
equal quantities of the flesh of salmon, 
and flesh of eel, with a few mushrooms ; 
season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, an 

cloves, beat all together till very fine; 


boil the crumb of a small roll in some. 
milk, beat with it four eggs till it is. 


thick, let it cool, and bind the whole 


together with four raw eggs; take the 


skin from the salmon, and put the slices 
in adish, cover each slice with the force- 


meat, pour melted butter over them, 
and then strew bread-crumbs all over :° 
lay a crust round the dish, and place: 


oysters all round; put it in theoven, and 
let it bake till of a fine brown colour, 
then take it out, pour over it a little 


melted butter, withsome red wine boiled 


in it, and the juice of a lemon. 
Satmon en Baril.*—Take a moderate 


sized salmon, lay it open, and take out. 


the bone; cut away the thin part, the 


head, and the tail, so as to make each | 
Have ready a que-. 


side quite straight. 
nelle-farce of smelts, spread a layer of 


this over each slice, which roll up in the: 
form of a barrel, make the ends of it. 


quite smooth, sprinkle them with salt 


and pepper, and roll them up in a sheet: 


of paper, place them on a baking-pan, 


pour on them a marinade cuite, and bake 
them. When done, take off the papers’ 


carefully, so as not to. injure the form; 
dish and serve with a ragofit of carp- 
roes: or, if better liked, glaze and serve 
with sauce piquante. 

Saumon au Bleu.— Drain a salmon 
without ripping up the stomach, wash 
and thorough!y dry 
fish-kettle, and let it stew for two hours, 


more or less, according to the size of the 


fish, in a good marinade 3 let the court. 
bouillon boil slowly, otherwise the. fish 


will never do through. Before serving,’ 


drain it, place on a clean napkin, and 
garnish with parsley. 

Satmon Boiled.—Salmon requires being 
well boiled, as it is very unwholesome 
when underdone. Some boil horse-radish 
in the water; fried smelts may be laid 
round it 3 garnish with horse-radish and 
sliced lemon. Serve with anchovy-sauce 
and plain butter. 


Satmon Botled.—Run a pack-thread 


through the tail, the centre of the body, 
and the head, to bring the fish to the 
form of the letter S$; put it intoa kettle 
of cold spring water with plenty of salt; 


it}; put it: into a- 





a a 





SAL 
‘and a sheet of paper over it; as soon as 
it begins to boil, set it by the side of the 
‘fire to simmer gently till done; take out 
the pack-thread without breaking the 
salmon. Serve it on a fish-plate with 
lobster-sauce in a boat. j 

Satmon, Boiled in /Vine.—Season with 
‘pepper and salt, some slices of bacon, 
fat and lean together, a pound of veal 
‘cut thin, and a pound and a balf of beef ; 
put these into a deep stewpan, then a 
fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the 
middie, then pour in just as much water 
as will cover it, and Jet it simmer over a 
gentle fire til! the salmon is almost done, 
then pour the water away, and put in 
two quarts of white wine, with an onion 
cut in slices, some thyme, and sweet 
marjorum, picked from the stalks ; let 
them stew gently, and while they are 
doing, cut a sweetbread into thin slices, 
then cut the slices across, and stew them 
in a saucepan, with some rich gravy ; 
when they are done enough, add a quar- 
ter of a pint of essence of ham ; take up 
the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve 
with the sweetbread, and its sauce poured 
over. 

Satmon, Brotled.—Season some slices 
‘cut about an inch in thickness, with 
pepper and salt; wrap each slice in 
half a sheet of white paper, well buttered, 
twist the ends of the paper, and broil the 
slices over a slow fire for six or eight 
minutes. Serve in the paper with an- 
chovy sauce. 

Satmon Broiled Twice.—Steep some 
slices of salmon in a mixture of lemon- 
juice, swect oil, salt, and coarse pepper, 
broil till half done; then dip them in 
some butter and stock, mixed ‘vith pars- 
ley and young onions, shred ; finish broil- 
‘jing, and serve with a little lemon-juice 
and bread-crumbs, grated very fine, 
strewed over. ; 

Satmon, Collared.—Split such a part of 
the fish as may be sufficient to make a 
handsome roll, wash, and wipe it, then 
rub it well inside and out to season It 
very high, with salt, white pepper, 
pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, 
‘all well mixed together. Then roll it 
tight and bind it; put as much water 
and one third vinegar as will cover it; 
add bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of 
pepper, Cover close, and simmer till 
done enough. Drain and boil the liquor 
quick, and pour over it when cold. Serve 
with fennel. 

Saumon, Crimped.—When the salmon 
is scaled and gutted, cut off the head 
and tail, and cut the body through into 
‘slices an inch and a ‘half thick, throw 
‘them into a large pan of pump water; 
when they are all put in, sprinkle a 


( 443 ) 


SAL 


handful cf bay-salt upon the water, stir 
it about, and then take out the fish ; set 
a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil 
the head and tail, but do not split the 
head; put in some salt; when they have 
boiled ten minutes, skim the water very 
clean, and put in the slices ; when they 
are sufficiently boiled, take them out, 
lay the head and tail in the centre of a 
dish, and the slices round. You may, if 
you please, dress the head and tail alone, 
and serve another time. : 

SaLtmon, Croguettes of.*— Boil your 
salmon in a court-bouillon, and when 
cold, prepare them in the same manner 
as croguettes of saltcod. (See that article.) 

Satmon, Dried.—Cut the fish down, 
take out the insideand the roe. Scale it, 
and rub the whole with common salt,and 
hang it to drain for twenty-four hours. 
Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, 
according to the size of the fish, two 
ounces of bay-salt, and two ounces of 
coarse sugar; mix these well, and rub 
into the salmon, and lay it on a large 
dish for two days, then rub it well with 
common salt, and in twenty-four hours 
more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well 
after draining. Hang it etther in a wood 
chimney, or in a dry place, keeping it 
open with two small sticks. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, 
and only just warmed through; egg 
sauce and mashed potatoes are usually 
served with it; or it may be boiled, es- 
pecially the bit next the head. 

Satmon, Dried, to Dress.—Pull some 
dried salmon into flakes; have ready 
some eggs boiled hard and chopped large; 
put the salmon and the egg into halfa 
pint of thin cream, and tkree ounces of 
butter, rubbed with a tea-spoonful of 
flour ; skim it, and stir till boiling hot; 
make a wall of mashed potatoes round 
the inner edge cf a dish, and pour the 
above into it. 

Satmon, Dried, to Dress.—Lay it in 
soak for two or three hours, then broil 
it, shaking a little pepper over it. 

Satmon, Glacé au Maigre.*—Empty 
and clean a good-sized salmon, and lard 
it with anchovies and eels; open the fish, 
take out the bone, and fill it with a farce 
composed of tench, perch, &c. minced, 
and mixed with artichoke-bottoms, truf- 
fles, morels, &c. also minced, and sweet 
herbs, kneaded together with fresh but- 
ter. Tie up the salmon, and put it into 
a saucepan with eels, cray-fish, carp- 
roes, truffles, &c. moistened with equal 
quantities of matgre broth and white 
wine; stew this until the fish is tender 
and well-flavoured ; then serve it, with 
its liquor, reduced to the proper consists 
ence for sauce. 


SAL 


_- Satmon, Marinaded.*—Take two hand- 
some slices of salmon, and marinade 
them in oil and lemon-juice with salt 
and pepper ; broil them about two-thirds, 
and then put them in a saucepan with 
their marinade, set them on hot ashes to 
simmer for half an hour, then put them 
on. a dish, cover them with grated bread, 
colour the whole with a salamander, and 
serve. 

Satmon, Pickled.—Cut a salmon into 
two or three pieces, put it in a fish- 
kettle, and set it on the fire with a suffi- 
cient quantity of water to cover it, and 
plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to 
boil, set it aside to simmer very gently 
until done; then take it off the fire, and 

‘let it stand in the liquor until cold, take 
jt out, lay the pieces close together ina 

_tub to pickle, and over them five ancho- 
vies, a small quantity of pounded salt- 
petre, anda quarter of a pint of sweet 
oil; being thus prepared, put the top of 
the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to 
which add the same quantity of white 
wine vinegar; put it onthe fire toskim, 
and boil it for two or three minutes; 
‘take it off, and let it cool. When cold, 

our it over the salmon and tie it down ; 
in three days turn it, and in a week’s 


‘time it will be fit for use; this is merely 


ina small way ; a great quantity being 
‘done at once, requires neither oil nor an- 
chovies. Serve garnished with fennel. 

Satmon. Pickled, to Dress.—Soak a 
piece of pickled salmonall night in pump- 
water; thenlay iton a fish-plate, and put 
itin astewpan, with three spoonsful of 
vinegar, a little mace, some whele pep- 
per in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- 
meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, 
lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter rolled in flour; cover the stew- 
pan very close, and let it simmer over a 
gentle fire for a quarter of an hour; then 
take up the salmon, lay it in a dish, keep 
it hot before the fire; let the sauce boil 
till it is of a proper consistence; take cut 
the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and 
serve the sauce over the fish. 

Satmon Pe (Hot).*—Take the skin 
‘and bone from a piece of salmon 3 cut it 
in pieces, which lard with eel and an- 
‘chovies; dress them in a little butter 
with some sweet herbs, salt, and spices ; 
when done, take out the herbs and mix 
them with fish guwenelies; let the fish 
cool, and then lay it in a deep dish lined 
with pufl-paste, put in also the guenelles, 
cover your pie and bake it. Pour an 
Italienne into it, and serve. 


\ 


Satmon, Potted.—Scale_ and wipe a_ 


large piece of.salmon, but do not wash it; 
salt it thoroughly, then let it lay till the 


( 444 ) 


SAL 


salt is melted and drained from it; then 
season with beaten mace, cloves, and 
whole pepper; lay in some bay-leaves, 
put it close into a pan, cover it over wit 
butter, and set it in the oven to bake; 
when thoroughly done, drain itfrom the 
gravy, put it into pots to keep, an 
when cold, cover it with clarified fas 
Satmon, Rolled.—Take half a salmon, 
bone it, cut off the head, scale and wash 
it; make a forcemeat with oysters, cut 
small, some parsley, chopped fine, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace, 
put this to the salmon, and roll it u 
tight ; put it into a very deep dish, and 
set it to. bake in a quick oven. Serye 
with anchovy, or shrimp sauce poured 
over. 
Satmon, Salad of.*—Put into a sauce- 
pan four dessert spoonsful of vinegar, 
two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced 
ravigote, salt and pepper; cut a boiled 
salmon into pieces, put them into the 
above sauce to colour them. When cold, 
lay them ona dish, and pour the sauce 
over. . 
SALOOP.—Boil a little water, wine, 
lemon-peel, and sugar, together; then 
mix with a small quantity of the powder. 
previously rubbed smooth, in a little 
cold water ; stir the whole well together, 
and boil for a few minutes, 
SALPICON.*—This is a mixture com- 
posed of various articles, such as sweet- 
breads, fat livers, tongue, ham, champig- 
nons, truffles, &c., previously dressed, 
cut intv dice, and cooked in some rich 
sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, cloves, shalots, sweet hoe. 
and a little butter; take care that all the 
articles are sufficiently boiled before they 
are cutup. Many things, such as beef- 
palate, fowl, cocks’-combs, indeed al most 
any article you piease, may be added to 
the above. : ‘i 
Saupicon, Omelet of.* — Whip up a 
dozen eggs, and fry half the number as 
usual in butter ; then lay the omelet in a 
dish, spread a salpécon, composed of carp 
roes, livers, &c. of fish, all over it; make 
a second omelet of the remaining eggs, 
lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any 
sauce you please. 
Sauprcon Toast.* — Make a salpicon 
with veal sweetbreads, morela, artichoke 
bottoms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all 
cut into dice; put them into a stewpan, 
with some veal or fowl gravy; set the 
pan on the fire, and then thicken the 
salpicon with the yolks of four eggs. Cut 
some thin slices of bread (have all the 
same thickness) 5 toast, and spread the 
salpicon over, and lay them in sand- 
wiches ; beat up some whites of eggs, 
which, with a spoon, pour all over ihe 








SAM 


toast. Then fry them in a very hot pan, 
Serye with veal or mutton gravy, or 


on e 

SALSIFY.*—Salsify is a black root, 
Scrape it well, taking care to leave no 
spots; then soak it in vinegar and wa- 
ter; fill a saucepan with water; add 
to it an ounce. of butter, four dessert 
spoonsfui of vinegar, and some salt; set 
it on the fire, and as soon as the water 
boils, put in the salsify, and let it 
boil an hour. Drain, and serve either 
with white or brown sance. 

Sausiry, Mried.*—When the salsify is 
dressed as above, drain, and fry it 
lightly in a white sauce, and let it cool; 
then dip it in a batter, and fry it. Sal- 
wify is likewise sometimes soaked in a 
marinade of vinegar, with salt and pep- 
per, previous to frying. 

SALTING Meat.—Meat for salting is 
the better for hanging three or four days 
before it is putinto the brine ; great care 


should be taken that all the kernels and | 
bloody veins be extracted, and the meat | 
wiped perfectly dry. Whena large quan- | 
tity is to be salted, it is best to put it 


into a large vessel, either of stone, wood, 
lined with lead, or wood only, and cover 
it with a brine made of salt and water, 
sufficiently strong to allow an egg to float 
on the top. If only a single joint is re- 
quired, rub it thoroughly with salt, and 
when completely covered, lay it in a pan, 
and turn. and rub it every day, until 
wanted. 

SALT Pud:ling.*—Take a pintof milk, 
four dessert spoonsful of flour, a little 
suet, shred fine, four eggs, salt, and 
pounded ginger; mix first the eggs and 
milk, then add the flour, &c.; put more 
flour, if necessary, to give it consistence ; 
tie your pudding in a buttered cloth, and 
boil it two hours. 

Sat (Spiced).*—Take four drachms of 
grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two 
of white pepper, two of allspice, two of 
mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and 
two of thyme (these three latter articles 
should be dried in anoven). Put these 
all into a mortar, and pound them to an 
impalpable powder, and sift it. Takea 
pound of fine white salt, ery itthoroughly 
in an oven, or stove, pound it as fine as 
possible ; sift, and mix with it an ounce 
of the above: mentioned spices; amalga- 
mate them thoroughly, keep the spiced 
salt in a tin box, which will shut per- 
fectly close. Use it in the following pro- 
portion: four drachms to a pound of 
boned veal. 

SAMPHIRE, to Dry, or Preserve.— 
Take itin bunches as it grows ; seta large 
deep stewpan full of water on the fire; as 
coon as it boils, throw in a little salt, and 


( 445 ) 





SAU 


put in the samphire; when it looks ofa 
fine green, remove the pan directly from 
the fire, and take out the samphire with 
a fork; lay it on sieves to drain; when 
cold, lay iton earthen plates, strew sugar 
well over it, next day turn them on a 
sieve, and strew it again with sugar, keep 
turning daily until it is dry; take care 
the stove is not too hot. 

Sampurre, to Pickle.—Lay some sam= 
phire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over 
ittwo or three handsful of salt, and cover 
it with spring water, and let it lay for 
twenty-four hours; then put it into a 
large brass saucepan ; throw ina handful 
of salt; cover the pan close, and set it 
over a very slow fire ; let it stand till itis 
quite green, and crisp; then take it off, 
for if it becomes soft it is spoiled; put it 
into a jar, cover it close, and when it is 
cold, tie it down. 

SARDINIAS, Fresh.* — Take two 
dozen fresh sardinias, dry them thorough- 
ly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter. 
They are also salted and eaten in the 
same manner as_anchovies; for which 
they are frequently used as substitutes. 

SAUCE.—Few things require more 
care than making sauces, as most of them 
should be stirred constantly, the whole 
attention should be directed to them; 
the ‘better way therefore, is to prepare 
the sauces before cooking those articles 
which demand equal care; they may be 
kept hot in thedazn-murie. Butter, and 
those sauces containing eggs, ought never 
to boil. The thickest stewpans should 
be used for making sauces, and wooden- 
spoonsused for stirring them. 

There is so great a variety of sauces, 
that it would nearly fill a volume to enu- 
merate them all. A few of the principal 
are subjoined, and for many others, see 
the respective articles of which they are 
composed. ; 

Sauce @ 1 Allemande.*—Puta slice of 
ham, and some champignons (previously 
dressed and shred) into astewpan; set 
it on the fire, and when the ham begins 
to stick, moisten it with stock and con-. 
sommé, boil and reduce it; then take off 
the fat, strain the sauce, and add to It 
some scalded parsley, two fat livers, 
capers, anchovies, scallions, all chop- 
ped, add a bit of butter, put it again on 
the fire, and when’ of the requisite con- 
sistence, take out the scallions, put in 
some mgnonette and: lemon-juice, and 
strain it for use. a 

Sauce aux Atelets.*—Putsome veloute, 
or abit of butter into a stewpan, with 
some parsley, scallions, and champig- 
nens, all shred small; set them on the 
fire, and when they begin to fry, add a 
agre stock, flour, pepper, nutmeg, a 


“SAU 


bay leaf, and salt; reduce the whole to 
the consistence of a owz/i, take out the 
bay-leaf, put in the yolks of three eggs, 
and stir till sufficiently thick. Be care- 
ful not to let it boil. ‘ 

Sauce @ l’ Aurore.*—Mix two dessert- 
spoonsful of Jemon-juice with some ve- 
louté ; season with pepper and grated 
nutmeg; put the. mixture into a sauce- 
pan, make it quite hot. In the mean- 
time rub the yolks of four hard boiled 
eggs through a cullender, which put into 
the sauce just before serving; take care 
not to let it boil after the eggs are in. 

Sauce au Bain-Marie.— Take thin 
slices of fillet of veal, ham, and beef, ac- 
cording to the quantity of sauce you may 
require, take also some carrots, parsnips, 
parsley roots, turnips, onions, leeks, and 
celery, also sliced; putall these into a 
stewpan, with a few slices of bacon; 
cover it close, and let it stand on hot 
ashes for some. time; then add equal 
quantities of white wine and good broth, 
plats the stewpan in the dazn-marie, and 
et the sauce simmer for four hours, 
when it may be strained for use. Be 
careful not to put in so much of any 
single ingredient, that its flavour may 
predominate over the others. 

-Saucs, Brown.*—Take a pound or two 
of steaks, two or three pounds of veal 
some pickings of fowl, carrots, an 
onions, put all these into a. saucepan 
with a glass of water, and set it on a 
brisk fire; when scarcely any mois- 
ture remains, put iton a slow fire, that 
the jelly may take colour without burn- 
ing ; and ag soon as itis brown, moisten 
it with stock (or water), add a bunch of 
parsley and green onions, two bay-leaves, 
two cloves, and some champignons, salt 
itwell, and set it on the fire for three 
hours, then strain; dilute a little rower 
with your liquor, and boil it an hour 
over a gentle fire, take off all the fat, and 
run it through a bolting. 

Sauce (Carrier).* —Scrape a small 
stick of horse-radish, cut aa onion or 

‘ two in thin slices, put these into a sauce- 
tureen with a little vinegar and whole 
pepper; set the tureen in the dripping- 
ean under a shoulder of mutton whilst 
yoasting 3 serve this sauce quite hot with 
the meat. 

Sauce @ la Diable.* — Mince half a 
dozen shalots very small, wash and press 
out all the moisture; then put them into 
a saucepan with a glass of vinegar, a 
clove of garlic, a *bay-leaf, and. some 
vexl glaze, reduce it to nearly a jelly; 
moisten it with a little good! gravy ; add 
ae batter, and a spoonful of olive 

o | 


» Sauce, Grande.*—Take three or four 


( 446. ) 


SAU 


slices from the under part of a knuckle 
of veal, and. put them intea large stew- 
pan with two ladlesful of consommé, set 
it on a fierce fire, taking care to skim it 
as much as possible, and with a cloth 
wipe away all that adheres to the inside 
of the stewpan; when the consommé is 
reduced, prick the slices with a knife to 
let out the gravy; then set the stewpan 
on a slow fire, that the meat and glaze 
may adhere together, and as soon as the 
latter is of a clear light colour, take it 
off, leave it covered for ten minutes, 
then fill it up with rich stock, in which 
is four or five large carrots, and three 
onions ; let it boil slowly for two hours, 
In the meantime put the knuckle into a 
Saticepan with four or five carrots, as 
many onions (one stuck with cloves), 
and two ladlesful of consommé ; set it on 
a brisk fire that the liquor may reduce to 
a jelly, as soon as this jelly begins to take 
colour, pour on it the liquor from the 
other saucepan to dissolve the: jelly gra- 
dually; then make it boil. Dilute some 
roux with the above liquor, and add it to 
the meat with some champignons, a 
bunch of parsley, scallions, and two bay- 
leaves, skim it when it begins to boil, 
and again when the rouw is added, put in 
more consommé or roux, according as it 
is too thick or too thin. oe ' 

When it has boiled an hour and a half, 
take off all the fat; and when the meat 
is quite done, strain the sauce through 
a bolting-cloth, 7 

Sauce @ la Grimod*—Is the same as 
Sauce & la Portugaise, with the addition 
of grated nutmeg, two or three allspice 
bruised, and a little India saffron. 

Sauce (Harvey).—Chop twelve ancho- 
vies, bones and all, very small, with one 
ounce of cayenne pepper, six spoonsful 
of soy, six ditto of good walnut pickle, 
three heads of garlic, chopped not very 
small, a quarter of an ounce of cochinea}, 
two heads of shalots, chopped not very 
small, one gallon of vinegar; let it stand 
fourteen days, stir it well, twice or thrice 
every day; then pass it through a 
jelly-bag, and repeat this. till it is 
perfectly clear; then bottle it, and tie 
« bladder over the cork. pis 

Sauce (ltalienne).—Put some lemon, 
parsley, thyme, aud mushrooms, shred 
small, into astewpan with a little butter 
anda clove of garlic; set iton a moderate 
fire; as soon as the butter begins to fry, 
pour in a little consommé, and Jet it stew 
till pretty thick, then take out the gariic, 
add some butter sauce and a little lemon- 
juice. . 

Sauce (Italian) for Salads.—Mix to- 
gether three table-spoonsiul of sauce 
éournée, one of mustard, some tarragun. 








SAU 


and chervil shred small, with three table- 
spoonsful of Florence oil; putting in, 
however, a little at a time; when per- 
- fectly smooth, add also, by degrees, a 
glass of tarragon vinegar and a little salt. 
This sauce cannot be mixed too much. 
’ Sauce Languedocienne.*—Put a bit of 
butter rolled in flour into a saucepan 
with parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic 
bruised, a glass of cream, and half aglass 
of olive oi} ; set it on the fire, and when 
the whole is dissolved and incorporated, 
add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and Jemon- 
juice ; let itsimmer till of a good consist- 
ence. 
- Sauce a@ la Madelaine.— Put a few 
bread-crumbs, two shred shalots, a bit 
of butter, half a spoonfu! of vinegar, and 
two spoonsful of consommé intoastewpan; 
set them on the.fire, and give thema boil 
up together; season with pepper and 
salt. This sauce should not be too thick. 
» Sauce, Minced.*—Put intoa saucepan 
parsley, shalots, and champignons, of 
each a spoonful shred, half a glass of 
vinegar, and a little pepper; set these 
on the fire till there remains scarcely any 
vinegar, when add four ladlesful of espag- 
mole, andthe same of stock, reduce, and 
take the fat from the sauce; when done, 
put in a spoonful of capers, and two or 
three gherkins, both shred 5 pour it into 
another saucepan, and set it in the dazn- 
marie; just before it is sent to table, 
pound an anchovy or two with a little 
utter, which beat up with the sauce. 
» Sauce @ la d’ Orleans.* — Put into a 
saucepan three or four tea-spoonsful of 
vinegar, a little pepper, some shalot, 
and an ounce of butter; reduce this, and 
add four or five ladlesful of brown sauce. 
When ready for table, put into your 
sauce four or five gherkins, the whites of 
three hard eggs, four or five anchovies, 
a carrot (all cut into dice), and a spoonful 
of whole capers ; make it quite hot, but 
not boiling, and serve. 

Sauce Piquante.*—Put into a sauce- 
pan a quarter of a pint of vinegar, some 
allspice, a pinch of pepper, a bay-leaf, 
and -a little thyme; let this remain on 
the fire till reduced to half, then add two 
ladlesful of espagnole, and two of stock ; 
set it on the fire again; when about the 
consistence of clear douwillie, it is suffi- 
ciently done. Putsalt according to taste. 

Sauce, Pluche.*—Put into asaucepan, 
four or five ladlesful of velouté, half a 
glass of white wine, a parsley-root cut 
into small pieces, and season with pep- 
per; set it on the fire, and when suffi- 
ciently reduced, add some parsley-leaves 
bruised and blanched in salt and water; 
serve almost immediately. 

_ Sauce @ la Portugaise.*—Put into a 


( 447 ) 


SAU 


saucepin a quarter of a pound of butter, 
the yolks of two raw eggs, a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, 
according to taste; set it on a moderate 
fire, stirring constantly till hot; then 
vannez it rapidly to unite the butter and. 
eggs. Should it be too thick, put avery 
little water to it. This sauce ought not 
to be made till just as it is wanted. v4 

Sauce au Révérend.—Chop up some 
lemon-pee!, and two or three pickled 
cucumbers; put them into a stewpan 
with two spoonsful of cullis, a little 
butter rolled in flour, season with salt 
and pepper, put it on the fire, and make 
it quite hot without boiling, stirring all 
the time, make a “adson with yolks of 
eggs, and serve. 

Sauce Robert.*—Cut_a few onions into: 
dice, which put into a frying-pan with a 
bit of butter, and fry them lightly; when 
nicely browned, add a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, a ladleful of stock, the same of 
vinegar, some salt and-pepper; reduce 
it toa proper thickness, and when ready 
for table, stir in two dessert-spoonsful of 
mustard. Es 

Sauce Romaine.*—Cuta pound of veal 
and half a pound of ham into dice, anc 
put them inte a saucepan with two legs 
of fowl, three or four carrots, four onions, . 
two bay-leaves, three cloves, a little 
basil, half.a pound of butter, and some 
salt; set these on a rather brisk fire; in 
the meanwhile pound the yolks of twelve 
hard eggs to a paste, which put to the 
above, and stir them in tili the butter is 
entirely melted, then pour in by degrees 
a quart ofcream; set the saucepan again 
on the fire for an hour anda half, stirring 
all the time, if it be too thick, add more 
cream, or milk; when sufficiently done, 
strain it through a bolting. 

Sauce (Siczlian).—Put into a stewpan - 
nearly a pint of good gravy, a quarter of 
a pint of essence of ham, half a lemon, 
peeled, and sliced thin, a few coriander 
seeds and four cloves (the two latter 
bruised) ; set these on the fire, give one 
boil, and add three cloves of garlic, a 
head of celery, sliced, two bay-leaves, 
and a little basil 5 let it stand till reduced 
to half, pour in a glasa of white wine, and 
strain it. If not sufficiently thick, adda 
bit of butter rolled in flour. 

Sauce ( Spanish).—Take the meat from 
a cold roasted partridge, put it into a 
mortar, with partridge livers, and truf- 
fles, pound them to a rather liquid paste, 
moistening with some good gravy. Put 
two glasses of red wine, two or three 
slices of onions, a clove or two of garlic, 
and two glasses of the paste; make it 
quite hot, and then strain it into another 
stewpan; add the partridge to it, anda 

2Q 2 


SAU 


little essence of ham, season it well, and 
let it boil slowly for some time. 

_ Sauce, Supréme.*—Put one ladleful of 
velouté, and four of essence of fowl, into 
a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when 
reduced to half, put in a teaspoonful of 
parsley, shred small, and scalded, a little 
fresh butter, half the juice of a lemon, 
and some pepper; place it on the fire, 
make it quite hot, but not boiling; van- 
nez it well, and serve quickly. 

Saucrk (Sweet).—Put some cinnamon 
into a saucepan, with as much water as 
will cover it; set it on the fire, and 
when it has boiled up once or twice, add 
two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter 
of a pint of white wine, and two bay- 
leaves ; give the whole one boil, and then 
strain it for table. 

Sauce, Tournée.—Put three or four 
pieces of lean ham iato a stewpan, with 
a little butter, and scme champignons, 
set it on a moderate fire, stirring till the 
butter begins to look clear ; then put the 
champignons into another stewpan, and 
add a sufficient quantity of flour to the 
butter, to make it the consistence of bat- 
ter; mix it well in, and when smooth, 
put toit three table-spoonsful of strained 
consommeé, Stir it in, then add more, at dif- 

_ferent times, until you have as much as 

you require. Set it on the fire, and let 
it boil slowly, stirring constantly; when 
reduced to the proper thickness (which 
is that of good melted butter), strain it 
through the tammy, to use when occasion 
requires. 

Sauce (Universal).—Take half a dozen 
split shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay- 
leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon 
leaves, half an ounce of bruised mustard 
seed, some Seville orange-peel, a quarter 
of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, 
double the quantity of long pepper, and 
two ounces of salt; put all these ingre- 
dients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, 
haJf a glass of verjuice, four or five 
spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white 
wine ; put. them into a jar, cover it as 
closely as possible, and set it on hot ashes 
for twenty-four hours. At the end of 
that time let it stand to settle, and when 
clear, pour it off carefully, strain, and 
bottle it. This infusion will keep a long 
time if tightly corked, and may be used 
with all kinds of meat and fish. It may 
also be added to other sauces. 

Sauce, White.*—Beat up a quarter of 
a pound of butter, and a tea-spoonful of 
flour; season with salt and pepper; when 
well worked up, add a dessert spoonful 
of vinegar, and alittle water. Set these 
on the fire, and stir till thick; be careful 
not to let it boil. ; 

Sauce (White). — Boil a few bits or 


¢ 448 ) 





SAU 


bones of chicken, or veal, in a_little 
water, with a bunch of sweet herbs, an 
onion, a slice of lemon, a little celery, 
and a few pepper-corns; when you have 
about half a pint of liquor, strain it, add 
some good cream, a piece of butter rolled 
in flour, pounded mace, and salt; make 
it quite hot, stirring continually; when 
done, flavour it with mushroems, or 
lemon-juice. 

Sauce (White Fish).—Simmer toge- 
ther an anchovy, a little horse-radish,/ 
scraped, some mace, an onion, stuck 
with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a 
glass of white wine, and a quarter of a 
pint of water ; when properly reduced, 
strain it, and then add two spoonsful of 
cream, a piece of butter, rolled in flour 3. 
set it on the fire again, and keep stirring 
till it boils. When ready to serve, put 
in alittle ketchup, and some lemon. juice. 

SAUR-BRAUTON* —To a sirloin of 
beef of twenty pounds, take one table 
spoonful of allspice, four dozen cloves, a 
lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and 
bay-leaves, parsley, and sweet herbs, of 
each asmall quantity. Stick the cloves into 
the meat, which lay in a deep pan, with 


the above articles over it, and just cover- 


ed with vinegar. Let it remain in this 


| pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, 
}and keeping the pan closely covered ; 
|two days before dressing the beef, lard, 


and then replace it inthe pickle. Such 
a piece of beef will require at least eight 
hours roasting, and should be done ona 
cradle spit, a good gravy made to baste 
it Ses as the vinegar may make jt too 
acid, 

This pickle will be strong enough for a 
small leg of mutton, and if the vinegar 
be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. 

SAUR-KRAUT*—Have ready a vine- 
gar white wine or brandy, cask,about four 
inches from the bottom of which pnt in a 
vent-peg. Take a number of the best 
white cabbages, strip off eee 
leaves, and slice the hearts transversely 
as thin as possible, until! you have as 
much as you require; then lay over the 
bottom of the cask, osier or vine twigs, 
to the height of the peg; on these put 
alternate layers of the sliced cabbage,and 
salt (in the proportion of one pound of 
the latter to fifty of the former); let each 
layer of cabbages be at least three inches 
thick. When the cask is about two- 
thirds full, put cabbage leaves all over : 
cover them with a cloth, and a round 
piece of wood, which will exactly fit the 
inside of the cask, and place a stone or 
heavy weight on it. In four or five days 
time draw out the peg, and let the brine 
run off; add more salt, and repeat this 
operation at intervals of a month at latest, 














SAU 


until.what flows from the cask is per- 
fectly clear, and free from smell. Some 
add juniper and carraways to the salt in 
making saur-kraut; be careful to keep 
the cask in a moderate temperature, 
during the whole year. 

Saur-KrautT.—Prepare your cask, an 
Slice the cabbages as above; put the lat- 
ter into a tub to ferment for some hours 
(not less than twelve, nor more than 
twenty-four); then make a hole at the 
bottom of the tub, and press the cabbages 
hard, to extract all the liquor from them ; 
when quite dry, put a layer of salt at the 
bottom of the cask, on which put a layer 
of the cabbages, on this more salt, pep- 
per, and a few ripe juniper berries; pro- 
ceed thus alternately until the cask is 
nearly full ; put on a piece of wood, ex- 
actly fitting the inside of the cask, on 
which. place one hundred and twenty 
pounds (or more) weight on it. Ina few 
days the brine will form a crust on the 
top of the cask, when the kraut is fit for 
use. On taking it out, use a wooden 
spoon only; merely leave sufficient brine 
to cover the saur-kraut ; lay a wet cloth 
all over to exclude the air, and then re- 
place the lid and weights. 

' The top of the cask should be fre- 
quently washed with salt and water, and 
past of the brine be drawn off occasion- 
~ ally. 

Saur-kRAvT, to Dress.*—Take out as 
much saur-kraut from the cask as you 
think sufficient for a dish, and soak it 
for two hours in cold water; then drain, 
and put it into a stewpan, with some 
slices of streaky bacon, a servelas, and 
sausages; add stock, and a little good 
gravy. Stew it over a slow fire, and serve 
with the bacon, &c. on it. The skins 
must be taken from the sausages and 
servelas, before they are sent to table. 
-SAUSAGES.*-Are composed of various 
kinds of meat, chopped exceedinglysmall, 
with pounded spices, and aromatic herbs, 
shred fine; these ingredients are put 
into skins, er guts (thoroughly washed), 
and tied into lengths of from two to five 
inches. Some persons add to the mix- 
ture a glass of Rhenish, Champagne, 
Madeira, or other wine. (For pork, beef, 
and other sausages, see the respective 
articles.) 

Sausaces, Bologna.*—Take the legs 
and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all 
the lean, scrape it well, remove all the 
sinews, and rub the meat: well with a 
seasoning made of salt, pepper, corian- 
der, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bay- 
Jeaf.. When properly flavoured, take 
some bacon, lard, and leaf, and cut the 
whole into dice; mix the fat and lean 
together, and put it into ox-guts, tie up 


( 449 ) 


SAU 

the ends, and lay the sausages in @ pan 
of water, with salt, and saltpetre ; cover 
the pan close, and leave it. Ina week’s 
time take out the sausages and drain 
them. Tie them between two pieces of 
wood, hang them up to dry, and smoke. 
When dry, untie them, and rub each 


over with oil, andthe ashes of vine- 


twigs, mixed together. Keep them ina 
dry place. 9 

Sausages of Marchpane.* — Take a 
quarter of a pound of chocolate, which 
put on a tin plate, and place it overa 
stove to dissolve ; as soon as it is so, put - 
it into a pan with a little water, stir it 
well, and then mix it with a pound of 
marchpane paste, a small quantity of red: 
santal, half an ounce of cinnamon, and 
six or eight cloves (all three in powder). 
When well kneaded together, chop up 
some blanched almonds, which strew 
over the slab, roll out your paste on them 
so that they may stick to its surface, to 
represent the pieces of fat, and cut it into 
pieces the length and thickness of sau- 
sages 3 place therm on white paper, and 
leave them for some days to dry, and 
then bake them in a very moderately 
heated oven; if they be put in too great 
a heat they will burst. 

Sausages, aw Palatin.*—Take: equal 
quantities of beef-steaks, fresh pork, and 
eaf; pound these together thoroughly, 
pour on the pounded meat some good 
Moselle or Khenish wine; in about an 
hour drain off all the wine which has not 
been sucked up, season with salt, pepper, 
spices, and ginger, all in powder, and fill 
your skins as usual. 

Sausaces (Parma).* — Mince equal 
quantities of veal, fresh pork, and leaf; 
take also an equal portion of Parmesan: 
cheese grated; mix these articles toge- 
ther, season: them with = salt, pepper, 
spices, and coriander (al} pounded) ; fill 
your skins and tie them into’ lengths of 
about three or four inches, and dress 


‘them as usual. 


Sausaaes ( Provengale).—Takea pound 
of fresh pork, half a pound of veal,. half 
a pound of leaf, three onions, and six 
cloves of garlic; mince and mix all 
these ingredients together, add a dozen 
truffles boiled in a little- white wine, and 
shred, salt, pepper, and spices, and put 
the mixture into skins, 

Sausaces (Royal).— Mince small the 
meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, 


a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and 


a bit of leg of veal; shred also some par- 
sley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms; 


‘mix these altogether, and season with 


pepper, salt, beaten spice, and garlic; 


-bind the whole with the yolks of six, the 


whites of two, eggs, anda little creara} 
2Q3 


SCU 


when thoroughly mixed, roll the prepa- 
ration into thick pieces, which wrap in 
very thin slices of fillet of veal, well 
beaten with a rolling-pin; each sausage 
should be about the thickness of a man’s 
wrist, and of proportionate length. Line 
an Oval stewpan with slices of bacon and 
thin beef-steaks, put in the sausages, 
cover them with beef-steaks and bacon, 
shut the stewpan very close, and set it 
on a moderate fire, put hot embers on 
the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve 
hours; then take it off, and when cold, 
take out the sausages carefully, remove 
the veal, and all the fat, with a sharp 
fot cut them into slices, and serve 
cold. 

SAVOY Soup.—Cut into quarters and 
boil in a little water, five large savoys; 
strain the water off when they are cool, 
press them well to drain out all the water, 
then put them into as much beef-gravy 
as will cover them, cover them very 
close, and set the saucepan on a moderate 
fire, and let it stew for two hours; then 
set on the fire a large frying-pan witha 
quarter of a pound of butter ; shake in 
some flour, and stir till it is brown ; peel 
a couple of onions, put them into the 
butter and stir it well about ; as soon as 
they are nicely coloured, add a quart of 
veal gravy, mix them well together; 
soak some crust of French rolls in the 
gravy in which the savoys are stewed, 
fay them in atureen at a little distance 
from each other; then pour inthe gravy 
and onions. °* 

SCOTCH Short Bread.*— Take two 
pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well; 
then mix with ita pound of powder-sugar, 
three ounces of candied citron and 
orange-peel cut into dice, and half a 
pound of carraway comfits; put half a 
pound of butter into a saucepan, set it on 
the fire, and. when quite melted, mix it 
with: the flour, &c.; the paste being 
nicely made, roll it out to the thickness 
of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them 
on white paper, prick and bake them; 
they should be of a pale colour. 

Scorcn Dumpling.—Make a paste with 
some oatmeal and butter, form it intoa 
dumpling, and ges a haddock’s liver in 
the middle, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt; it should be boiled in a cloth. 

SCUBAC.*—Infuse two ounces of saf- 
fron, the zestes of four lemons, those of 
as many oranges, and a drachm of mace, 
in three gallons:of brandy, for a week, 
keeping the vessel closely covered; at 
the end'of that time distil it. Dissolve 
ten pounds of sugar ina gallon and a half 
of water, stir it into the /eguewr, and then 
filter it.. Your liqueur made as above, 
will be very white and clear. If, how- 


( 450 ) 


‘quarters of a pound of the sa 


SER 


ever, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after 
the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is 
cold, add tincture of saffron to it; the 
quantity regulated by the degree of colour 
you wish, —. aM 

SEEDS (Sugared).*—These are done 
in the same manner as sugared almonds. 
The seeds most generally used for this 
purpose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 

The best method of proceeding is as 
follows: place a small preserving-pan 
over a charcoal fire, on the side of which 


have a chafing dish, on which keep a pan 


with a quantity of sugar boiled to Lssé ; 
(this sugar should be kept quite hot, but 
not boiling) ; on the other side have some 
fine powder. When so far prepared, put 
your seeds into the pan, and as soon as 
they begin to heat, pour over them a 
large spoonful or two of the syrup; stir 
them about, that all may be thoroughly 
saturated with it; then sprinkle over it 
a handful or two of powder, still shaking 
the pan to make the seeds equally white. 
When dry, pour on some more syrup, 
then the powder, and continue this alter- 
nately until your seeds are sufficiently 
large; then lay them on a sieve, keep 
them in a warm place for some days, 
after which put them into glass bottles. 
SERVELAS. * — According to the 
number of servelas you intend making, 
take your quantity of fresh lean pork, 
mince it small, and mix it with a fourth 
part of bacon fat, (also minced). Season 
with salt, pepper, Spices, nutmeg, anise, 
and coriander ; fill your skins like sau- 
sages, tie the ends, and hang them in the 
chimney to smoke for three days. Then 
put them into a saucepan of water, with 
salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, 
basil, and a bunch of parsley ; boil them 
in this for three hours; drain, and let 
them cool. ros Ae 





as for Marchpane Sausag nd t 
me unco- 
loured ; cut both into small irregular 
pieces, mix them together, and put them 
into skins the same as the regular ser- 
velas; take particular care that the guts 
are well cleaned, perfectly dry, and trans- 
parent; press the pieces in close that 
they may be quite firm; and haying cut 
them of the proper lengths, moisten your 
hands with oil of almonds, and rub the 
servelas well with the palms, until they’ 
are papper, and shining. These 
servelas are of an excellent flavour, and 
will keep a Jong time. 

SHALOT Sauce,*—Take two spoons- 
ful of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, 
two spoonstul of vinegar, two or three’ 
shalots cut fine, and a little salt; put 








SUE 


these ingredients into a saucepan, with a 
bit of butter rolled in flour ; let it stew a 
little, and serve it up with your mutton 
or beef. 

SHaLot Vinegar. — Put six or eight 
shalots split into aquart bottle; fill it up 
with vinegar, stop it; it will be fit for 
use in a month. 

SHEEPS?’ Tails Braised.*—Clean, and 
wash the tails thoroughly; scald them, 
and then put them into a saucepan on 
slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, turnips, parsley, 
salt, pepper, and moisten the whole with 
consommé ; cover them cluse, and braise 
them till quite tender ; then lay the tails 
on a dish, and pour the other articles 
over them. F 

Sueeps’ Tazls Roasted.* — Having 
thoroughly washed the tails in warm 
water, scald them for five minutes in 
boiling water; then cover them com- 
pletely with bread crumbs, mixed with 
sweet herbs, salt and pepper}; fasten the 
tails 1o a spit, and roast them before 
a@ moderate fire. Any sauce you please 
may be served with them. 

Sueers’ Tongues en Brochettes.* — 
Boil the tongues in some consommé, 
then cut them into small fillets, cut also 
bacon into very thin slices, not larger, 
however, than the tongues; put these 
pieces alternately on skewers; cover 
them with bread crumbs mixed with 
sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper; 
lay them ona gridiron, and broil them 
nicely. i 

Saeers’ Tongues Broiled.* — Having 
parboiled the tongues in a little stock, 
split each, give them afew turns in some 
melted bacon, strewing over them salt, 
pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; 
when well covered with the latter, lay 
them on a gridiron, and broil them 
slowly. 







ngues en Chemises.*—Boil 
some tongues in good veal or mutton 
gravy, and in the meantime put into a 
saucepan a little butter, some sliced 
onions, pounded bacon, three or four 
anchovies, shred parsley, salt and pep- 
per, mix them well together. Cut some 
caul into pieces large enough to contain 
a tongue, in each of which put a little of 
the above mentioned seasoning, lay a 
tongue on it, more seasoning, wrap the 
ends of the caul over the whole; bread 
them well with crumbs mixed with shred 
sweet herbs, and bake them in a mo- 
derate oven. 
Sseers’ Tongues Pie.— Line a dish 
with some good puff-paste, and lay at 
the bottom of the dish some good force- 
meat, made of roasted poultry, suet, 


( 451 ) 


SHE 


parsley chopped, mushrooms, pepper and 
salt, and a few fine spices ; upon this 
place the tongues cut in two, and upon 
them a good slice of ham, a little butter, 
and a few slices of bacon; put on the 
cover and bake it; when done, take out 
the bacon and ham, skim off all the fat, 
and pour on it what sauce you please. 

SHeeps’ Tongues Roasted. * — Take 
half a dozen sheeps’ tongues, and having 
properly prepared them, lard them with 
small /ardons, tie them to askewer, wrap 
a buttered paper round, and fasten them 
on a spit, and roast them before a mo- 
derate fire; a little before they are done, 
take off the paper, baste the tongues with 
butter, and make them of a nice colour. 
Serve with whatever sauce you may 
prefer. 

SHEEPS’ Trotters (Fricassee of). * — 
Wash the feet weil, changing the water 
frequently, then boil them in some stock ; 
when nearly done, take out all the bones, 
leave the meat in the saucepan, add to 
it a bunch of sweet herbs, a pinch of 
flour, salt and pepper ; when perfectly 
tender, make a latson with yolks of 
eggs, and serve the feet with a little 
verjuice. 

Supers’ Trotters a l’Jtalienne.*—Put 
some sliced onions, very salt bacon, salt, 
pepper, mustard, and verjuice, into a 
saucepan, with a little veal gravy; make 
it quite hot, and then put in the feet, 
previously boiled in stock. In half an 
hour they will be sufficiently flavoured, 
then serve all together very hot. 

SuHeeps’ Trotters in Paste.* — Put the 
feet into a pan, with some melted butter, 
parsley, scallions, morels, and streaked 
bacon ; set them on the fire, and stew 
them. Cut some puff-paste into twice 
as many pieces as you have feet, and in 
every two wrap a foot; close the ends 
nicely, do them over with yolk of egg, 
and bake them in a moderate oven. The 
feet should not be boned. 

Sseeps’ Trotters Stuffed.*— Boil the 
feet in good stock till the bones will come 
out with ease; fill the space left by them 
with a good fow! or chicken farce; dip 
them in lard, bread them well, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

_ The space left by the bones is some- 
times filled up with a bit of fried bread ; 
in this case the feet are only previously 
boiled, and then served with cream 
sauce. 

SHERBET. * — This is a delicious 
beverage,composed of cream, mixed with 
various articles, such as almonds, tea, 
pistachios, coffee, chocolate, &c., and 
sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may also 
be made with the juice of various fruits, 


SHR 


sweetened to the taste; for the method 
of preparing which, see the different 
articles it is usually composed of. When 
the liquid is sufficiently limpid and cold 
pour it into a silver, or tin sorbetiere, an 
ice itas usual. (See Jce). 

SHRIMPS.— Shrimps are chosen by 
the same rules as prawns. 

Surimps to Butter.—(See the recipe 
to Butter Prawns). 

Surimes in a Gratin. — Take one or 
two quarts of shrimps, according to the 
size you wish your dish, pick, and toss 
them in good bdéchamelle, with a lit- 
tle lobster spawn pounded and mixed 


in it, as directed for lobster sauce; make . 


the whole very hot, and add the squeeze 
of a lemon, then lay it on a dish, and 
strew crumbs of bread over it, the same 
as for other gratins; colour it with the 
salamander before it is served to table. 

Suaimes (fo Gridl).—Stew the shrimps 
in a little water, with salt, pepper, and 
shred parsley; butter some scallop shells, 
put in some grated bread, on which lay 
the shrimps, cover them with bread, add 
a little more butter; set them on a grid- 
iron for a short time, brown them with a 
salamander and serve. 

Sarimp Pie.—Take a quart of nicely 
picked shrimps, and season them with 
two or three anchovies minced very fine, 
and mixed with some salt, mace, anda 
clove or two; (should the shrimps be 
very salt, that article must be omitted 
in the seasoning). Put some butter at 
the bottom of the dish, then lay in the 
shrimps, and add a glass of sharp white 


wine. The paste for this pie should be 
light and thin. Jt does not take long 
baking. 


Surimps Potted.—Let them be nicely 
boiled, then pick them out of the shells, 
and season them well with pepper, salt, 
a little pounded cloves, and a little mace ; 
put them closely together into a pot, and 
set them for about ten minutes in a slack 
oven, and when cold, pour over clarified 
butter. 

SHrimp Sauce.— Put half a pint of 
picked shrimps into a stewpan, with some 
putter sauce, and avery little essence 
of anchovy ; make it very hot, adda little 
lemon-juice, and serve it to table. 

Surimp Sauce. — Nicely pick your 
shrimps, and put them to butter melted 
thick and smooth ; give them one boil, 
and add some lemon-juice. 

Surimp Sauce.—Mix a good piece of 
butter with some flour, boil;it up in a 
little rich gravy; put in the shrimps, 
nicely picked; give the whole one boil. 

SHRUB.* — Put a quart of Seville 
orange-juice to a gallon of rum, with 
three pounds of lump sugar, and a hand- 


( 452 ) 


SKA 


ful of the peel pared extremely thin ; let 
it stand in the cask for three months, 
aren filter it through a cloth, and bot- 
tle if. 4 
Sarus.*—Takea quart oforange-juice, 
strain it, put to it two pounds of lump 
sugar, four quarts and one pint of rum; 
put half the peels of the oranges into the 
rum, and let it stand one night, then mix 
the rum with the orange-juice and sugar, 
put it into a vessel which has a'spigot, 
shake it four or five times daily till the 
sugar be all dissolved ; when it is clear, 
which may be in abouta fortnight, bottle. 
it off for use. If the oranges are very 
ripe, a pound and half of sugar is suf- 
ficient. ‘ , 
SIBERIAN Crabs, to Preserve.*— 
Take their weight in sugar, make a syrup 
with apple-jelly ; when well boiled, prick 
the crabs and put them into it; let-them 
boil a few minutes, then take them out, 
put them on a sieve to drain; wher 
nearly cold, put them again into the 
syrup, boil it a few minutes more, and 
drain them as before; do this 2 third 
time, observing the same rules as at 
first ; then put them into glasses or jars, 
and pour the jelly over them, boiling. 
_ SIPPET Pudding.—Cut a small loaf 
into extremely thin slices, and put a 
layer of them at the bottom of .a dish, 
then a layer of marrow, or beef-suet, a 
layer of currants, and then a layer of 
bread again, &c., and so continue until 
the dish is filled; mix four eggs, well 
beaten, with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour 
over ; set it in the oven, it will take half. 
an hour baking. . 
SKATE.—When good, they are very 
white and thick ; if dressed too fresh, 
they. are hard and unpleasant to the 
taste; they should, therefore, be kept 
a day or two, but not longsenough to 
produce an unpleasant sn Toes 
Skate Bozled.—Put it ir 







Skate Fyied.—The skate. must be - 
nicely crimped, then tossed in an egg, 
beaten up with pepper, and salt, then in 
crumbs of. bread, laying them on: paper 
as you do them; have ready a stewpan 
nearly full of lard; when very hot, put 
in two or three pieces at a time to fry 
quickly, and when thoroughly done, put. 
them on paper to drain from the fat; 
serve them to table on a dish garnished 
with fried parsley, and serve shrimp- 
sauce ina hoat. ; 
SMELTS.—The smelt is considered 








SME 


an excellent fish when fresh, and have a 
smell similar to that of a newly-cut 
cucumber ; when good, the scales have 
a fine siivery hue, and the body is very 
stiff; when stale, it is flabby. 

SmeEtts, Aféelets of.*—Take the fillets 
from half a dozen smelts, take off the 
skin, cut each into four pieces, and trim 
them ; melt some butter, add to it the 
yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper ; beat 
them up well, dip each fillet into this, 
and roll them; run a skewer through 
them, so as to prevent their unrolling ; 

ut four on each skewer, dip them again 
into the butter; have ready some bread- 
crumbs, roll the fillets in this very 
lightly, but so ag to cover them com- 
pletely, and broil them over a clear fire ; 
take care that all four sides are well 
coloured. 

SmeE tts @ la Borne Eau.*—Clean, and 
scrape your smelts, wipe them with a 
clean cloth, cut off their heads and tails, 
and put the fish into a saucepan, with 
some parsley, two or three scallions, a 
bay-leaf, water, salt, and pepper; boil 
them slowly for a quarter of an hour, 
dish them ; add to the liquor some more 
parsley, boil it up once or twice, and 
pour it over the smelts. 

Sme.tts Brotled.*—When the smelts 
are well cleaned, slit them down the 
sides, and lay them in oil, with salt and 
pepper, for a little while; then put them 
on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil 
them; when done, serve either with 
caper or tomata sauce. 

Smetts en Caissons.* — Make some 
paper-cases as if for biscuits, into each 
of which puta little farce maigre, com- 
posed of butter, sweet herbs, small fish 
minced, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; lay 
the smelts on this, cover them with 
bread-crumbs, and bake them in a mode- 
rate oven, When done, serve with what- 


ever saucg like. 
SMELT d.*—Scrape your fish, cut 
off the ta ind fins, clean, and wash 


them, then replace the livers ; slit them 
down the sides, flour, and fry them of a 
nice colour. Drain and sprinkle salt 
over them. Serve them on a napkin. 
Smelts are most generally used as a 
garnish for larger fish. 

Smetuts, Gratin of.*—Prepare your fish 
as for frying, spread some butter over the 
bottom of a deep silver dish, on which 
shred parsley and scallions, and sweet 
herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; place 
the smelts on this, cover them with 
bread-crumbs, moisten with a little melt 
ed butter and white wine; set it on a 
stove, or in an oven; brown the top, and 
serve, 


( 453 ) 


SME 


Smets with Herbs.*—Boil a bunch of 
sweet herbs, with some sliced onions, 
salt, pepper, half a spoonful of oil, anda 
quart of water; when the liquor is suf- 

ciently flavoured, put in the smelts and 
boil them quickly. . 

Smetts é@ l’Italienne.* — Boil your 
smelts with a large glass of white wine, 
half a glass of water, two spoonsful of 
oil, two slices of lemon, a pinch of salt, 
and apinch of fenne]. When sufficiently 
done, make a azson with yolks of eggs, 
and shred chervil, and serve your fish 
with its own sauce. 

Sme.tts Pickled.—Wash, clean, and 
gut a quarter of a hundred of smelts, 
take half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter 
of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of 
saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, a 
quarter of a pound of common sait, all 
beaten very fine ; lay the smelts in rows 
in a jar; between every layer of smelts 
strew the seasoning, with some bay- 
leaves; boil a sufficient quantity of red 
wine to cover them; pour it boiling hot 
over them, cover the jar with a plate; 
when cold, tie it down very close. 

Smetrs Pickled.—Draw out the insides 
all but the roes, put their tails into their 
mouths; boil them a few minutes in 
salt and water, vinegar, and pepper- 
corns; take out the fish ; as soon as the 
pickle is cold, pour it over them. 

Sme.rs Potted.—Draw out the inside, 
season them with salt, mace pounded, 
and pepper, lay them in a pan with butter 
on the top; bake them; when nearly 
cold, take them out, lay them upon a 
cloth; put them into pots, clear off the 
butter from the gravy, clarify, and pour it 
over them. 

Smetrs in Savory Jelly.—Lay a dozen 


| well cleaned smelts at the bottom of a 
'stewpan, with half eorsommé and half 


Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and 
two or three mushrooms ; let them stew 
gently till well done, then carefully take 
them out with a skimmer, and lay them 
on a plate to cool; pass the liquor 
through a double silk sieve to some good 
consommé, which must be clarified the 
same as directed for aspic jelly; the 
jelly being made, have a large plain 
mould ready, in ice, and nearly half fill 
it with jelly; as soon as it is set, place 
the smelts in it, with their heads down- 
wards, and just sufficient jelly to cover 
them ; when these are set, fill up the 
mould; when wanted, dip it in warm 
water, and turn it on the dish. This 
makes a good supper dish. 
SNIPES.—When the snipes have been 
picked, they must be singed over a char- 
coal fire; in trussing them press the legs 


SNI 


close to the side, and pierce the beak 
through them} tieaslice of bacon over 
each bird, run a longiron skewer through 
the sides, and tie them to the spit; in the 
mean time cut two or three slices of 
bread, according to the number of the 
birds, fry them of a fine brown colour in 
butter; put the birds to roast, and put 
the fried bread in a dish under them, to 
receive the inside, which will drop after 
they have hung a few minutes; just 
before they are roasted sufficiently, cut 
off the bacon, that they may take colour. 
Serve them on the dish with the bread 
under them, and plenty of good gravy. 

- Some prefer eating them with butter 
only, considering that gravy takes off 
from the fine flavour of the bird. They 
should be carved the same as fowls or 
pigeons, and the head should be opened, 
as some are fond of the brains. 

Snipes are generally dressed in the 
game manner as woodcocks. 

Snipes ¢ la Manselle.*—Take the fil- 
lets, wings, and legs, of as many snipes 
as will give you sufficient for a dish; 
mince them small, and put the mince- 
meat into a saucepan, with half a glass 
of consommé, a spoonful of olive oil, the 
livers of the birds, well pounded, salt and 
pepper. Set these on the fire; a quarter 
of an hour will be sufficient to de them ; 
when done, put in a little verjuice. 

Snipe Pie.—Take three snipes, bone 
them, and fill them with light forcemeat, 
adding the trails and truffles pounded, to 
it; place the birds in a deep dish, witha 
little forcemeat all round; cover with 
pulf-pasie ; egg, and ornament it, then 
place it in the oven. When three parts 
baked, take off the lid, and pour in some 
good cullis, a glass and a half of Madeira, 
and season with cayenne and lemon- 
juice, according to taste; put on the 
cover, and finish baking. 

Snipes d@ la Provengale. * — Having 
picked and trussed your snipes, put them 
into a stewpan, with a glass of oil, basil, 
bay-leaf, pounded coriander seed, and 
two slices of lemon ; when they are pretty 
well fiavoured, take them out, wrap each 
bird in a slice of bacon and a cabbage- 
leaf, replace them in the stewpan, and 
finish cooking them over a gentle fire, 
add a glass of good stock, a little veal! 
blond, sweetbreads, truffles, morels, or 
any other articles of the kind; when 
about to serve, squeeze ina little Seville 
orange-juice. fe 

Snipes with Truffles. — Truss eight 
snipes with their beaksrun through them, 
and roast them with bread under. Have 
a few fine truffles well stewed in a good 
brown sauce, and when the snipes are 


( 454 ) 


proper, beat up the egg with a little pep- 


sOoL 


roasted, lay them on the toast in the dish, 
putting one or two truffles into each 
snipe, and pour the remainder of the 
sauce over them. : 

OLES.— Soles may be seen in the 
market almost all the year round, but 
they are in the greatest 


and firm, and the belly ofa cream colour} 
when stale, they are flabby and of a bluish: 
cast. 

Sotes Boiled. — Be careful that the: 
soles are thoroughly well cleaned, then 
rub them over with lemon-juice, and set. 
them on the fire in cold spring water, 


with plenty of salt, and when they begin’ 


to boil, put them aside to simmer very 
gently till done; serve with anchovy 
sauce ina boat. You may if you please, 
garnish your fish with parsley. -  * , 

Sours (Collops of ).*—Take some small 
soles, and marinade them in the juice of 
two lemons, with salt, pepper, and sweet 


herbs shred ; when they have remained’ . 


sufficiently long in the above drain them; 
then stuff the fish with some crumb of 
bread boiled in milk, and beat up with 
the yolks of two eggs; sprinkle them 
with flour, and fry them of a nice colour. 
Serve them on fried parsley or chervil. 
Your fish ought to be of aclear gold co- 
lour, and very dry and crisp. = ; 
Soites Frigasseed.—Fry them of a nice 
brown, drain them; take off all the 
meat from a small sole, chop it fine, and 
mix it with a little grated bread, some 
lemon-peel, parsley chopped fine, pep-' 
per, salt, nutmeg, the yolk of an egg, and 
a little butter; make this into little 
balls; fry them. Put a little red wine 
to some good gravy, thicken it witha 
little flour; boil it up; add cayenne, 
ketchup, and lemon-juice, lay in the fish 
and balls, simmer them a few minutes. 
Garnish with lemon. 7, 3s! 
Sours Fried.—Let them be thorot 
cleansed, after which dry th acloth, 
dip them in egg, then cover them with 
fine bread crumbs, laying them on paper 
as you do them ; ‘put some good lard into 
a frying-pan, and when very hot, slip in 
the soles, and fry them of a good brown 
colour; place them on paper to drain off 
the fat; sprinkle over them a little salt 5. 
serve them to table very hot, with shrim 
sauce ina boat. You may, if you think 







per and salt. 

Sours & la Horly.*—Skin, and take the 
fillets from two pairs of soles, trim, and 
lay them ina pan, and soak them in the 
juice of two lemons, with an onion sliced, 
parsley, salt and pepper; in an hour’s 
time drain the fillets, dry them~ well, 


t erfection about 
midsummer ; when good, they are thick. 


— 


joes 


my 


erg: 








SOL 


flour, and fry them ofa nice colour ; drain 
them, lay ona dish, and serve with 
tomata sauce. 

Soxss, @ la Mayonnaise.*—Fry four or 
five pairs of soles; when cold, lay them 
on a gridiron, over a slow fire, not to 
heat through, but to allow the skin to be 
raised easily; while they are on the fire, 
detach the fillets, and then take off the 
skins, and cut your fillets into square 
-pieces; dip each of these into a mayon- 
maise, and lay them neatly in a mould, 
until it is full ; then make the »ayonnatse 
warin, pour it into the mould, cover, and 
set it on ice; when the sauce is congeal- 
ed, turn it ona dish, garnish with crow- 
tons, gherkins, anchovies, &c. 

Sores, with Mushrooms.—Put a quart 
of milk into a stewpan, or fish-kettle, 
with the same quantity of water, a bit of 
butter, salt, and a little lemon-juice; 
then put in the soles, and set the stew- 
pan over a moderate fire, and let them 
‘simmer very gently till done ; then take 
them up, place them ona cloth or nap- 
_kin, to imbibe ail the liquor from them ; 
lay them on a dish, and pour over them 
a good mushroom sauce. 

Soues, en Paupiettes.*—Yrepare your 
soles exactly like sa/mon en bari! ; but 
instead of baking them, boil the puzp7- 
ettes in a court-bouilion. Serve them 
with an JItalienne. 

Sours, 7x Sallad.* — See Sulmon, in 
Sallad. 

Sore Pée.—Boil two pounds of eels 
until quite tender, then pick the flesh 
from the bones, and put the latter into 
the liquor the eels were boiled in, with a 
blade of mace, and some salt; let them 
voil till the liquor. is reduced to a quar- 
ter of a pint, then strain it ; cut the flesh 
of the eel very fine, and mix it with a 
little lemon: peel, cut small, a little salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, 
parsley, chopped fine, and an anchovy, 
minced 3 mix the whole with a quarter 
of a pound of butter, and then lay this 
forceméat in a pie dish; cut the meat 
from a very fine pair of soles, and put 
into the dish upon the forcemeat, pour 
in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put 
on the cover, and set it in the oven to 
bake of a nice brown. 

Soxes, @ la Plat.*—Melt some butter, 
and pour it intoa dish, with some shred 
parsley, aud shalots, salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg; then lay in a pair of 
soles (well cleaned and dried), spread 
‘sweet herbs, shred over them, and sea- 
‘son with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; add 
a glass of white wine, and cover the whole 
with bread-crumbs, moistened by a few 
drops of butter; set this dish in a mode- 
rate oven to bake for a quarter ofan hour. 


( 455 ) 


SOR 


Soxes, Stuffed.* — Make a farce cf 
whiting or perch, minced very small, 
and mixed with butter, sweet herbs, 
morels, kneaded together by yolks of 
eggs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg; having skinned and cleaned 
your soles, stuff them with this farce, 
rub them with butter, bread, and bake 
them. They may, if preferred, be dressed 
in equal quantities of stock and white wine. 

Sorrev, @ la Bourgeoise.*—Pick and 
wash as much sorrel as you may want, 
drain and squeeze all the water from it, 
and putit into asaucepan,setiton the fire; 
when the sorrel is dissolved, if there be 
too much water, put it into a cullender ; 
then try it lightly in a little butter. Put 
two spconsful of flour into a basin, beat 
an egg up with it, then add another egg, 
and when that is well beaten with the 
flour, pourina glass of milk, and then 
mix it with the sorrel, set it on the fire, 
and stir it, until it has boiled a quarter 
of an hour; dishit, and serve with either 
poached or hard eggs. 

SorkeEL, in Gravy.*—Mince, and put 
it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, 
parsley, and scaliions ; add a glass of 
consommeé ; set it over a moderate fire, 
and when quite soft, put to it some fowl 
gravy, or veal blond. Make the sauce 
thick, and do not let it boil, cover the 
sorrel when served. he r 

Sorret, Omelet of.—Pick, wash, and 


‘blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and 


fry it lightly in a little butter, with shred 
parsley and scallions; then put the sor+ 
rel into a saucepan, with a little cream; 
season, and let it boil slowly; in the 
meantime make an omelet in the usual 
way, Jay it on a dish, thicken the sorrel 
with the yolks of two eggs, pour it on 
the omelet, and serve it very hot. 

Sorret (Purée of ).*— Take as much 
sorrel as you may require for a dish 5 take 
also three or four hearts of lettuces, and 
a handful of chervil, both picked and 
shred small, and then press them well to 
extract all the moisture ; put them into 
a saucepan, with some butter, champig- 
nons, shalots, and parsley, all chopped 
small, (there last fried lightly in butter) ; 
put the sorrel on these, and dress it; 
when sufficiently done, add four ladlesful 
of velouté, and the yolks of five or six 
egus; Strain it through a bolting cloth, 
and put it aside till wanted. 

To make this purée maigre prepare the 
sorre! as above, but instead of the velouté, 


»mix the yolks of six eggs with two des- 


sert spoonsful of flour, and three glasses 
of milk, and then put it in; reduce it 
over abrisk fire, stirring constantly with 
a wooden spoon ; then strain it through a 
boliing cloth, and keep it hot till wanted. 


SOU 


SorREL Sauce.—Pick and thoroughly 
wash two double handsful of young sorrel, 


well drain it from water, and then put it. 


into a stewpan, well covered with a bit 
of butter, and let it stew very gently over 
a slow fire; when done, putit to drain on 
a sieve for three minutes, then, witha 


wooden spoon, rub it through a tammy 


into a dish; put it into a stewpan, with a 
bit of butter, stirring it over the fire 
till thoroughly mixed; you may add, if 
you choose, three spoonsful of good con- 
sommé, and when it has boiled for a few 
minutes, add toit halfas much cream sauce 
as there is sorrel, and if necessary season 
with a little salt; this 1s proper for a 
fricandeau of veal or entrées of fish. 

Sorret. Soup.—Pick from the stalks, 
and well wash in several waters, two 
pecks of young sorrel, then squeeze it 
well to drain the water from it, and set it 
to stew on aslow fire with nearly a quarter 
of a pound of butter, till done. Drain it 
for two minutes on a hair sieve, and put 
it again in a stewpan with a small bit of 
butter, on a slew fire; when the but- 
ter is melted, add half a pint of con- 
sommé ; when nearly reduced, add ano- 
ther, then seven or eight table spoons- 
ful of plain sauce. When all is well 
boiled together, rub it through a tammy, 
adding a quart of consommé while you 
pass it. Let it boil very gently two 
hours before the dinner, and add six 
eggs, and half a pint of cream, mixed 
together, as directed for other soups; 
~ put this in the minute before it is served 
up} if it should not be strong enough to 
your palate, boil down some beef-stock, 
and mix in with it. 

Sornet Stewed for Fricandeau and 
Roast Meat.—Thoroughly wash the sor- 
rel, and then put it into a silver vessel 
or stone jar, with no more’ water than 
hangs to the leaves. Let it simmer as 
slowly as possible, and when sufficiently 
done, put a bit of butter, and beat it 


well. 

SOU BISE.*—Make a purée of onions, 
as directed in Sauce Robert; set it on 
a slow fire, and when dissolved, add four 
ladlesful of velouté, a quart of cream, and 
the size of a walnut of sugar; keep it 
constantly stirring over a_ brisk 
until thick, then strain it through a bolt- 
ing,and serve. 


eleven inches in diameter, and three and 
three-quarters in height; put round it 
three sheets of buttered paper, and 
bake it. 


Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in| 


which infuse whatever ingredients you 
may think proper, such as vanilla, coffee, 
orange-flowers, &c, (the proportions will 


( 456 ) 
be found under the different articles). — 


fire | 





SOU 


In the mean time, wash a pound of rice 
thoroughly in warm water, then put it 
into a saucepan of cold water, and when 
it has boiled a few minutes, strain the 
rice, and put it with your infusion into 
another saucepan, and set it again on the 


fire ; as soon as it boils, placethe saucepan _ 


on hot ashes, that the rice may burst 
gradually; in three-quarters of an hour, 
add a pound of powder-sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of fresh butter, and a 
pinch of salt, stir them weil in}; put fresh 
hot ashes under the saucepan, that the 
rice may be kept constantly simmering 
for an. hour, by which time it ought to 
be perfectly soft, and should be rubbed 
through a bolting-cloth quickly, like a 
purée; put this into another saueepan 
over hot ashes, to keep it warm. Take 
sixteen eggs, separate the yolks and 
whites, beat the former well, and whisk 
the latter till nearly firm; then mix the 
yolks with the rice (taking off the ashes) ; 
the preparation ought to be of the same 
consistence as a cream pédlissiére ; add, 
at first, a quarter, and afterwards the 
whole of the whites; stir them in as 
lightly as for biscuit paste ; the whole be- 
ing thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into 
the croustade, and place itin a moderate 
oven for two hours and a half; when 
done, cover a baking tin with red cinders, 
on which place the souflé the moment 
it is taken out of the oven ; this prevents 
its falling, whilst you mask it with 
powder-sugar, and glaze with the sala- 
mander} carry it into the dining-room 
on the tin, have a dish ready with a 
napkin folded on it ; place the sowlé on 
the dish, and let it beserved immediately. 
Remember that a souffé cannot be served 
too quickly. ma 
SOUP (Brown) without Meat. — Put 
three quarts or more of water, with a 
sufficient quantity of raspings to thicken 
it ; two or three onions eut across, some 
whole pepper, and a little salt; cover it 
close, and let it boil an hour anda half; 
take it off, and strain it through a sieve ; 
fry in butter some celery, endive, lettuce, 
spinach, and any other herbs cut small 5 
then take a stewpan (sifficiently large 
to hold all the ingredients, and put ina 
good piece of butter, stick in a little 


: 1 flour, and keep stirring till it is coloured 
SouFFLE Francais.*—Make a crovstade 


of a nice brown; then put in the herbs 
and soup}; ‘boil it till the herbs are tender, 
and the soup of a proper consistence, 


then pour the soup into a tureen, and 
| send to table; serve with fried bread, 


either in the soup or in a dish, 

Soup a da Grimod.*—Trussacapon, and 
put it into a saucepan with a couple of 
pigeons, three pounds of steaks (all tied 


ee a: 








SOU 


‘saucepan with good stock, set it on the 
fire, and skim it well, and then put in 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, eelery, 
and two cloves; stew the whole, and 
when done, serve as follows :—the capon 
and pigeons in a deep dish, garnished with 
whole lettuces (previously cooked), smal) 
onions, carrots, and turnips, cut into dice ; 
these are also dressed previously; take 
the carrots, &c. which were done with 
the capon, cover the capon with them ; 
strain the liquor through a tammy, and 
serve in a tureen by itself as sauce to the 
eapon. 

Soup, Hesstan.*—Take two pounds of 
shin of beef, one pint of split peas, two 
onions, four carrots, six potatoes, two 
heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, 
and five quarts of water; stew all to- 
gether till half the quantity is boiled 
away; then strain it through a hair 
sieve. 

Soup Maigre.—Melt half a pound of 
butter in-a stewpan, shake it well; as 
soon as it: ceases to hiss, put in six mid- 
dling sized onions, sliced, shake. the pan 
well for five minutes, then put,-in five 
heads of celery, cut small, a handful or 
two of spinach, a cabbage-lettuce, anda 
bunch of parsley, all cut small; shake 
these all well together in the pan fora 
quarter of an hour; stir in some flour, 
then pour in two quarts of boiling water, 
some crusts of bread, some beaten pep- 
per, four blades of mace, pounded very 
fine ; stir the whole well together, and 
let it boil gently for half an hour; take 
it off, and stir in the yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. 
Serve-in a tureen. ; 

Sour de Santé.—Lay six or eight slices 
of lean ham, with some beef over them, 
at the bottom of a stewpan, then some 
veal, with some partridge-legs, or moor 
game, or chicken, salt, pepper-corns, 
Jamaica-pepper, three or four cloves, a 
bay-leaf, and one clove of garlic; let the 
whole stew together till it takes a fine 
brown colour, tlien fill it up with half 
water, and half good beef stock; add 
three heads of celery, two good turnips, 

arsley, lemon, thyme, two carrots, three 


arge onions, and a small bunch of winter | 


savory; when the whole is thoroughly 


well done, pass it through a lawn sieve | 
into a basin. Cut two good sized turnips | 
and three large leeks, into pieces, about — 


the thickness of a quill, and an inch and 


a half long ; fry these together of a nice . 
brown colour : next, shred two cabbage- 
lettuces, celery, endive, sorrel, and 


chervil ; and stew them down on a very 
slow fire with a small bit of butter. 
When done, put them in a sieve with the 


( 457 ) 
‘up to keep them in proper form) ; fill the’ 


SPI 


turnips; then put them into a soup-pot, 


and pour the soup from the basin over 


them ; set it ona stove, skim it, and as 
svon as it boils, set it on one side, and 
let it simmer for two hours very gently; 
take the crumb of a couple of French 
rolls, and cut it into round pieces, which 
brown in the oven, and put them into 
the tureen, and pour the soup wpon 
them, If you think proper, it may be 
clarified, the same as other clear soups ; 
but the real Soup de Santé ought not to 
be clarified. 

Soup, White, without Meat.—Put two 


| or three quarts of water into a saucepan, 


with the crumb ofa small loaf, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, whole pepper, a few cloves, 
an onion or two cat across, and a little 
salt; cover close and boil till perfectly 
smooth; cut into small pieces some 
celery, endive, and lettuce, the white 
parts only; boil them, strain off the soup 
into a clean stewpan; put in the herbs, 
with a good piece of butter, keep stirring 
till it is melted ; then let it boil till quite 
smooth ; skim it, soaksome French roll, 
nicely rasped, in alittle of the soup; put 
it ina tureen, pour the remainder of the 
soup over, and send to table. 

SPICED Bread (Common).* — Boil 
three pounds of honey in a gallon of wae 
ter for a quarter of an hour; then pour 
it on the flour in the trough ; mix them 
together well, until the flour will imbibe 
no more liquid; when a little cooled, 
add three eunces of potash, infused the 
night before in half a pint of milk, knead 
the whole well, putting to it some pound- 
ed anise. Roll out the paste, and with 
paste-cutters of various forms, cut it into 
little figures, lay them on a well-oiled 
tin, and bake them; when done, wash 
them over with milk. gas 

With this paste spiced nuts are made}; 
when formed lay, them on tins, and leave 
in a warm place for two or three days 
before they are baked. 

Spicep Bread (Dutch or Flemish).*— 
The evening before you wish to make 
your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces 
of white potash in half a pint of milk, and 
set it aside. The next morning put a 
considerable quantity of sifted flour into 
atrough, make a hole in the heap, into 
which pour six pounds of clarified honey; 
whilst boiling, stir it well with a strong 
spatula, until the honey, reduced to a 
firm paste, will imbibe no more flour, 
then spread it'all over the bottom of the 
trough, and leave it for about ten or fii- 
teen minutes; at the end of that time, if 
the paste be sufficiently cool for you ‘to 
bear your hand on it, rub its surface with 
the infusion of potash; then let a strong 
person ta it, in the same manner as 


SPI 


the baker’s knead bread. Wave readya 
uumber of different-sized moulds of pear- 
tree wood, on which are cut (pretty deep) 
octagons of various dimensions ; ther cut 
your paste into as many pieces as you 
have moulds, in the following propor-» 
tions :—for the mould containing a pound, 
take eighteen ounces of. paste ; for a half 
pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of a 
pound seven ounces of paste, and so on; 
knead each piece separately on the slab, 
rub them with flour to prevent their ad- 
hering, and then put them into the re- 
spective moulds; press it down tight ; in 
@ minute or two turn them ever, place 
them on a tin plate (previously rubbed 
with olive oil), and with a soft brush take 
off what flour may remain on the surface 
of the spiced bread, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. Whilst they are baking, 
dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient 
quantity of beer, with which, by means 
of a hair pencil, wash the outside of the 
Spiced bread as soon as it is done; and 
then, while it is moist and warm, deco- 
rate it with blanched almonds, candied 
lemon and orange-peel, cut into dice. 
You may, if you think proper, cut these 
sort of sweet meatsinto very small pieces, 
and knead them into yeur paste at first. 
When they are nearly cold, separate the 
pieces with a knife. 

Spricep Bread (Dutch) Rich.*—Make 
your paste in the same manner asabove, 
and when kneaded with the potash, add 
a quarter ofa pound of anise, two ounces 
of coriander, two ounces of cinnamon, 
one ounce of cloves (all reduced to an 
impalpable powder) a pound of candied 
lemon-peel, the same of candied orange- 
peel, both cnt into thin slices ; mix these 

angredients thoroughly with the paste, 
and then cut it into pieces, each weigh- 
ing twenty-eight ounces; these, when 
baked, will not exceeda pound in weight; 
Spread them on your slab, and form them 
into squares two or three inches in thick- 
ness; place them, side by side, on a 
baking-tin, previously rubbed with oil 
of almonds, and put round the tin some 
slips of wood to prevent the spiced bread 
from geiting thinner at the edges; dipa 
brush in some milk, and rub the sur- 
face of the spiced bread with it; put 
them into a moderate oven until well 
risen and of a brownish colour, Whilst 
they are baking, blanch a few almonds, 
and split them, cut some candied lemon 
and orange-peel into very thin slices, 
and as soon as the spiced bread is taken 
from the oven, wash it over with a de- 
coction of isinglass and beer, and imme- 
diately decorate it with thealmonds, &c. 
_ Another Way.—Take a pound. of 
Jiquerice, boil it in six quarts of milk, 


( 458 ) 


SPI 


until the fluid is reduced to half; then 
strain it into a saucepan, add six pounds 
of honey, and boil for a quarter of an 


hour; after which pour it into a trough 


upon the flour, with which mix it up by 
means of a strong spatula; when the 
liquid has taken up as much flour as it 
will possibly contain, extend it along the 
bottom of the trough; as soon as itisa 
little cooled, put to it half a pint of milk, 
in which was infused, the night before. 
three ounces of the best potash, knea 
it well, and then add cinnamon, corian- 
der, and anise (two ounces of each), an 
ounce and a half of cloves, all reduced to 
powder, a pound of candied lemon, and 
the same of candied orange-peel, chopped 
small. Finish as above directed, except 
that milk should be washed over them, 
instead of isinglass, when baked. 
Spicep Bread (Rotterdam).*— Make 
your paste as directed with the liquorice, 
milk, and boney, without any spices, roll 
it out very thin (about the eighth of an 
inch), cut this into pieces the size of a 
playing card, place them on a baking- 
tin well rubbed with olive oil, and bake 
them in a moderate uven; when done, 
wash them over with sugar, boiled with 
orange-flower water to a syrup. Let 
them dry, and tie them in packets, four 
in each. 
SPINACH, Boitled.—Spinach issome- 
times extremely gritty ; it must there- 
fore be picked and thoroughly - well 


washed in several waters; then put it . 


into a large saucepan of boiling water 
with plenty of salt in it, let it Soil till 
done, take it out, put it into a cullender, 
squeeze it to drain it from the water, 
then cut it in squares, lay iton a dish, 
and serve it to table. 

Spinacu @ la Bonne Femme.*—Having 
thoroughly washed and picked your spi- 
nach, scald it well; do it- quickly that it 
may keep its colour; then add three 
onions stuck with cloves, some sweet, 
herbs, salt, and pepper. When the spi- 
nach is quite done, drain it; mince and 
put it into another saucepan in a little 
melted butter, and half a glass of cream 
or good milk ; stir all together well, an 
serve very hot. 

Spinacu 2n Boxes. — Cut bits of bread 
tolerably thick, and give them the form 
of little boxes of any shape; seoop out 
the inside without breaking through 
leave a border of a proper thickness, an 
fry them of a good brown colour, in but- 
ter, oil or lard; drain them the same as 
all fritures, and fill them with a well 
seasoned spinach ragout 3 serve with or 
without a cover. , 

Spinach Fritters.—Boil some spinach 
thoroughly, drain, mince, and add to it 














SPI 

Some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and 
cinnamon, all pounded ; as much cream, 
or yolks and whites of eggs, as will make 
it the consistence of batter; mix in a 
few currants, previously scalded, and 

rop the batter into a frying-pan, on 
boiling lard ; as soon as they rise, take 
them out, drain, and serve them. 
Spinach av Maigre.*—Having blanch- 
ed and minced your spinach. put it into 
@ pan, with nearly a quarter of a pound 
of butter, salt, and pepper ; setit on the 
fire, and when the spinach is fried alittle, 
add two dessert spoonsful of flour, and 
some milk, stir till it thickens, and then 
serve. 
’ Sprnacn Pudding. — Pick and well 
wash a quarter of a peck of spinach, 
and boil it until quite tender; a little 
salt should be pnt into the water it is 
boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept 
closely covered ; when boiled, put it in 
a sieve to drain, and then cut it small ; 
beat up six eggs, and mix them with half 
a pint of cream, or milk, a stale roll 
grated very fine, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a quarter of a pound of melted but- 
ter, stir all well together, put them into 
the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, 
and keep stirring it till it begins to 
thicken ; then weta pudding cloth, flour 
it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and 
boil for an hour; tura it out ona dish, 
pour over it melted butter, with a little 
Seville orange-juice and sugar mixed in 
it, and serve. 

Spinacw Puffs.—Take as much boiled 
spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze 
it quite dry, shred it small, and add half 
the quantity of powder-sugar, the same 
of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the 
yolks of four hard boiled eggs, and two 
ounces of citron, the two latter minced ; 
season with beaten cinnamon and grated 
nutmeg ; put them all into a stewpan to 
simmer A dintis while, and then set them 
by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks 
of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, and 
some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same 
of sugar ; roll it out very thin, cut it into 
pieces three or four inches square, and 
upon each piece lay a spoonful of the 
spinach, as above, turn the paste over,and 
pinch the edges round neatly, in the form 
of a semi-circle. These puffs may be 
either boiled a quarter of an hour, and 
served with grated bread and Parmesan 
cheese strewed over thein, or fried in 
boiling lard, and sent to table with pow- 
der sugar over. 

Sprnaca Tart.*-—Take some spinach, 
clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be 
gritty, pick and scald it, and give it a 
few turnsin a little butter, with salt and 
nutmeg. Mix the spinach with frangi- 


( 459 ) 


STO 


pane, and finish the tart like that of fran 
gipane. 

Sprnacnu Tart. — Scald the spinach in 
boiling water, drain it wel), and then 
chop it; stew it in butter and cream, 
with a little salt, sugar, a few small bits 
of dried comfit citron, and a few drops of 
orange-flower water 5 put it into a dislr 
lined with the very best puff-paste. 

Spinacy Toasts.—Boil some spinach 
for a quarter of an hour; then squeeze out 
all the water, chop it small, and put it 
into a mortar, with three or four spoons- 
ful of apple marmalade, the yoiks of four 
hard-boiled, and three raw eggs, two bis- 
cuits soaked in cream, sugar, anda pinch 
of salt; pound all these together.to a 
paste, put it into a dish, and mix with it 
a few dry currants. and three or four 
spoonsful of melted butter... Cut some 
slices of bread half an inch thick, four 
inches long, and two broad; toast them 
nicely, and spread the spinach, &c. over 
them, to the thickness of half an inch, 
wash each over with white of egg; place 
the toasts on a baking-tin (well buttered) 
and bake them for half an hour. When 
done, grate nutmeg, and squeeze orange- 
juice over them, and serve. 

SPRAT'S.—Sprats are chosen by the 
samerules as her:ings.andare dressed in 
thesame manner. (See Herrings.) 

STOCK, for Brown or White Soups.— 
Take a pound of scate, five flounders, 
and two pounds of eels; cut them in 
pieces, put them into a stewpan, with 
as much water as will cover them, a 
little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a 
head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, 
some pepper and salt, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs; cover close; strain it o 
for use ; if it is for brown soup, fry the fish 
brown in butter, and then putit to stew. 

Stock (for Gravy Soup or Gravy.)— 
Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, slice 
also a pound of lean beef, and a pound of 
the lean of gammon of bacon; put these 
into a stewpan, with three scraped car- 
rots, acouple of onions, a couple of tur- 
nips, two heads of celery, and two quarts 
of water, Let the meat stew till quite 
tender, butit must not be brown. When 
thus prepared it will serve either for 
soup, or brown or white gravy; if for 
brown gravy, it must be first coloured 
in the usual manner. 

Srock-FisH d@ la Gascogne.*—Put the 
dried cod (after it has been prepared, 
and pulled into flakes) into astewpan, 
with equal quantities of sweet oil and 
fresh butter, pepper, garlic, and salt 5 
place the stewpan on a stove, 8tirring 
constantly, until the butter and oil are 
thoroughly incorporated: as soon as 
that is oh sin it should be eaten, be- 


STR 


eause if it becomes cool, it turns imme- 
diately. 

Srock-FIsH @ la Provengale.*—Prepare 
a dried cod, boil, bone, and cut it in 
pieces. Melt some butter rolled in flour, 


in a stewpan, aid put to it parsley, scal= 


lions, garlic, a glass ofcream, the same 
of oil, and some Seville orange-peel; as 


soon as this is well flavoured, put in. 


your fish and. toss it up for some time; 
the longer this operation is performed, 
the better the dish will be. 

STRAWBERRY (Compote of).—This 
is made in the same manner as Rasp- 
berries, only that the strawberries do 
not require being mixed with any other 
fruit. 

SrrRAWBERRY Conserve.* —Take some 
very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and 
crush them througha tammy. For every 


dessert spoonful of juice, allow six ounces | 
| teen ounces of picked strawberries, crush 
| them in a mortar, and then add to them 
| a quart of water; pour this into a es 


of sugar; boil this to fort perlé, take it 
off the fire, and pour in the juice; stir 
them together with asilver spoon, until 
the conserve begins to whiten and dry, 
then put it into moulds or paper cases. 
If the conserve be too white, add a little 
carmine to the syrup. 

STRAWBERRY Cream.—Put six ounces 
ef strawberry jam to a pint of cream, 
pulp it through a sieve; add to it the 
juice of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge 
ofa dish, lay the froth on a sieve, add a 
little more juice of lemon, and when no 
more froth will rise, put the cream into 
a dish, or into glasses; and place the 
froth upon it, well drained. 

- SraawBERry, Jce Cream.—Takea pint 
of strawberries, pick them from the 
stalks, and pass them through a sieve, 
‘with a wooden ¢poon; add four ounces 
of powdered sugar, and a pint of cream, 
and freeze. 

. SrrawBerry Fritiers.—Make a paste 
with flour, a apoontul of sweet oil, chop- 
ped lemon-peel, whitesof egg, beaten up, 
and a snfficient quantity of white wine 
to make it pretty soft, and just ready to 
drop witha spoon ; mix some large straw- 
berries in it; and drop some of the mix- 
ture, about the size of a nutmeg, in the 
hot fritters; when done, take them out 
carefully, drain them on a sieve, and 
glaze them with sugar. 

STRAWBERRY Jam.*— Gather the scar- 
Jet strawberries when perieciy ripe, 
bruise trem well, and add the juice of 
other strawberries; take an equal weight 
of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it 
thoroughly into the fruit, and set it ona 
slow fire; boil it twenty minutes, taking 
off the scum as it rises ; pour it into 
glasses, or jars, and when cold, tie them 
down. 

. StrrawBeasry, Marchpane.*—Take two 


( 460 ) 


pounds of sweet. almonds, tivo pounds an@ 


| possible from it. 
| tirely dissolved, run the whole through 


STU 


a half of sugar, and a pound of picked 
strawberries. Beat the almonds toa fine 
paste, and mix them with the sugar 
(boiled to petit boule); crush, and strain. 
the juice of the fruit, which add to the 
almond paste and syrup; stir the mix- 
ture vou set it on hot ashes, and con 
tinue stirring until the paste is suffici- 
ently done; this may be proved by lay- 
ing a piece on the back of your hand; if 
it may be removed without its sticking, 
it is enough; when cold, spread it. over a 
slab, and cut it of any size and shape you 
think proper. fee Bint 

SrrawBerRries, Preserved in Wine.— 


Put some ‘very fine large strawberries 


into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in 


three spoonsful of fine sugar ; fill up with 
| Madeira, or good sherry, 


StrrawBerry Sherbet.* — Take four- 


with a tea-spoonful of lemon acid, an 

the same of crange-flower water, and 
leave the mixture two or three hours; 
put eighteen ounces of fine sugar into 
another basin, cover it with a large cloth, 
through which pour thestrawberry juice ; 
squeeze the cloth to extract as much as 
When the sugar is en- 


a jelly bag, until perfectly clear; then 
finish as. usual. 

STRAWBERRIES, Souffie, Parisien of.*¥— 
Take a basket of very fine strawberries, 
pick, and crush them. and then rub 
them through asieve. Whisk the whites 
of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which 
add a pound and a half of powder sugar, 
stir them together as lightly as possible ; 
then mix them with the strawberries. 
Pour the whole into a ereustade, and 
bake it for an hour in a moderate oven ; 
when done, glaze it,andserve 
_ Srrawserry Tart. — Pick, and put 
into a basin two quarts of the best scarlet 
strawberries, then add to them half a 
pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and 
half a pint of madeira, with the juice of 
two or three lemons ;_ mix these well 
together, without breaking the straw- 
berries, and put them into a puff paste, 
previously baked; be careful to keep 
them very cool. , 

STURGEON.—Of a good sturgeon the 
flesh should be white, the gristles and 
veins blue, the grain even, with a few 
blue veins, and the skin tender. “id 

Sturgeon, Baked.*—Clean, and take 
the skin from a small sturgeon; split it 
along the belly, without separating ir, 
Lay it in a large baking-dish, season it 
with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs ; 








STU 


moisten with oil, lemon-juice, and a bot- 

_ tle of white wine. Put it in the oven, 
baste it frequently ; make ita nice colour, 
and serve it with its own gravy. 

Sturceon, au Court-bouilion.*—Take 
a small sturgeon, clean the inside tho- 
roughly, take out the gills, and remove 
the skin, wash it well, and drain it. 
Put it intoa fish-kettle, with arich eourt- 
bouillon, grated bacon, or butter. It 
requires more seasoning than any other 
fish ; put therefore plenty of sweet herbs, 
and salt; set it on the fire, and put fire 
on the lid ; moisten it often; when done, 
drain, and serve it with an Jtalenne, to 
which add the liquor, witha bitof butter. 

Sturceon, Cutlets en Pupillotes.* — 
Having cleaned and skinned the fish, cut 
it into cutlets, about an inch thick; put 
a bit of butter into a pan, lay in the cut- 
Jets, setthem on the fire, and turn them. 
Set them to cool in fine herbs, or dzr- 
celles, and finish like veal cutlets, en Pa- 
pillotes. If your dish is madgre, put 
pounded anchovies ; if gras, use bacon. 

Struraeon, Frieandeau of.*—Take a 
good sized piece of sturgeon, and having 
removed the skin and gristle, beat it 
lightly with the blade of the chopper, 
and lard it with bacon. Line a stewpan 
with thin slices of ham, veal, some car- 
rots, onions, aad sweet herbs. - Moisten 
with white wine, cover it with a buttered 
paper, and stew it. When done, take out 
the fish, strain the liquor, take off the 
- fat, add three spoonsful of espagnole, re- 
duce your sauce, pour it into a dish, and 
serve the sturgeon on it. : 

Srurceon, Griliade of.*—Boil a slice 
of sturgeon in a small saucepan, with 
some slices of bacon, bay-leaves, salt, 
pepper, basil, and white wine. When 
done, let it cool, cover it with bread- 
crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with 
sauce prguante. 

SrunrGeEon (Matelote of ).*—Cut a large 
- slice of sturgeon into pieces of various 
sizes ;- put them into a frying-pan with a 
little butter, do them on both sides over 
a gentle fire, then take them out; and 
put into the pan a glass of red wine, a 
pinch of flour, and some sweet herbs 
shred small; in a quarter of an hour 
replace the fish for a minute, and serve 
all together on fried bread. 

Sturcron Roasted.* — Take a large 
piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one, 
clean and skin it properly; lard it with 
eel and anchovies, and marinade it ina 
white wine marinade. Fasten it to the 
spit, and roast it, basting frequently with 
the marinade strained. Let the fish be 
a nice colour, and serve with a pepper 
sauce. ‘ 

Srurceon in Savory Jelly.—Puta little 


( 461 ) 


SUE 


aspic or savory jelly into the bottom of a 
mould, and as soon as it is set, cut some 
cold sturgeon in whatever .form you 
please, and place it on the jelly accord- 
ing to your own taste, and put in a little 
jelly, just sufficient to cover the sturgeon 3 
when it is thoroughly set, put in some: 
more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of 
the mould; when that is set, place some 
more sturgeon, and so proceed till the 
mould is full; when it is to be turned ont 
to serve, dip it in warm water the same 
as all other jellies. 

SrurGceon Souwp.—Take a fine piece of 
sturgeon, cut off the fins, and the gristly 
bone inside, with the skin; put it all to 
stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, car- 
rots, onions, peppercorns, allspice, and 
a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice 
brown colour, then fill it up with veal 
consommé, half a bottle of Madeira, and 
a quarter of a pint of good vinegar 5 when 
well boiled and skimmed, put in a large 
piece of sturgeon to stew very gently, 
with a fire over and under the stewpan, 
till it is thoroughly well done; then take 
it out to cool, and strain the liquor 
through a lawn sieve, thicken it with 
ham, as directed for turtle soup; boil it 
in the same manner. When ready, cut 
the sturgeon into small squares, and 
put them into the soup with a few stewed 
oysters and mushrooms} let it boil gently 
for a few minutes, skim it, and squeeze 
in the juice of two lemons, and add a very 
small quantity of cayenne, and serve; if 
not sufficiently strong, reduce a little 
beef stock and add toit. Herbs may be 
added ifthought proper. 

Sturceon d la Venitienne.* — Take a 
large slice of sturgeon, and having re- 
moved the skin and gristles, lard it alter- 
nately with seasoned J/ardons, truffles, 
and anchovies ; place it ina braising-pan 
with bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, and 
a large glass of oil. Set the pan over a 
gentle fire, to simmer for two or three 
hours; then serve with any mazgre sauce 
you may think proper 

Suet Dumplings.—This batter should 
be made the same as for suet pudding, 
(second recipe), but much thicker, let 
your cloth be wetted, shake it all over 
with flour, and tie up in several parts 
of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two 
or three spoonsful of batter. Or you 
may make the batter as usual, and put it 
in tea-cups, well buttered; tie them in 
cloths, and boil an hour. 

Suet to keep for a Twelvemonth. — 
Choose the firmest part, and pick it free 
from skin and veins. Put it into a sauce- 
pan, and set it at some distance from the 
fire, in order that the suet may melt 
Mere yite; or it will taste disagreea- 


SUG: 


ble. When it is melted, pour itintoa, 
pan of cold water, When it has caked 
quite hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in 
fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and 
keep it in adry, but not in a hot place. 
When you wish to use it, scrape it fine, 
and it will make a nice crust, either with 
or without butter. 

- Surer Pudding.—Mix a pound and a 
quarter of flour, to a pound of shred suet, 
with two eggs beaten separately, a little 
salt, and as little milk as will make it. 
Let it boil for four hours. It eats very 
nice the next day, cut in -slices and 
broiled. ; 

« Suet Pudding.—Put six spoonsful of 
flour into a stewpan, with a little grated 
nutmeg and ginger, and a tea-spoonful 
of salt, then putin a pound and a half of 
beef suet chopped fine; stir these well 
together, and then mix in a quart of 
milk, and six eggs, well beaten together ; 
butter a basin, and shake some flour 
round it, put in your batter, and boil it 
for two hours and a half, or three hours. 

- Suet Pudding.—Take half a pound of 
beef suet chopped fine, half a pound of 
flour, two eggs well beaten, a little salt 

and a smail quantity of pounded and 
sifted sugar; mix all these together with 
a little milk, to a moderate consistence. 
It may either be boiled or baked. 

Suer Pudding.—Chop half a pound of 
beef suet very fine, add to it the same 
quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little 
Salt, a small quantity of pounded and 
sifted ginger; mix all these well together 
with milk to a moderate consistence. It 
may be either baked or boiled. 

SUGAR (To Clavify).* — Take four 
pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces ; 
put into a preserving-pan the white of an 
egg, and a glass of pure spring water; 
mix them well with a whisk, add another 
glass, still whipping, until two quarts of 
water have been put in; when the pan 
is full of froth, throw in the sugar, and 
set it on the fire, being careful to skim it 
every time the scum rises, which will] be 
the case as the sugar boilsup. Aftera 
few boilings, the sugar will rise so high 
as to run over the edges of the pan, to 
prevent which, throw on it a little cold 
water; this will lower it instantly, and 


give time for the skimming, for the scum | h 
should never be taken off whilst the sugar | 


is bubbling; the cold water stills it, and 
that is the moment toskimit. Repeat 
this operation carefully three or four 
times, when a whitish light seum only 
will rise; then take the pan off, lay a 
napkin, slightly wetted, over a basin, and 
pour the sugar through it. _ 

The scum thus taken off, put into a 
china basin; and when the sugar is cla- 


( 462 ) 





SUG 


rified, wash the pan and the skimmer 
with a glass of water, which put to the 
scum, and set it aside for more common 
purposes. eye rine Ree 
_ Sucar, Different Degrees of Prepar- 
ing. — The varicus purposes to which 
sugar is applied, require it to be in dif- 
ferent states ; these are called. degrees, 
and are thirteen in number, called as 
follows: | x 
Petit Lissé, or First Degree.—Replace 
the clarified sugar in the preserving-pan, 
to boil gently, take a dropof it on the 
thumb, touch it with the fore: finger; if, 
on opening them, it draws to a fine 
thread, and in breaking, forms two drops 
on each finger, it is at the right point.. 
Lissé, Second Degree.—A little more 
boiling brings it to this point; when the 
thread will draw further before it breaks. 
Petit Perlé, Third Degree.— At this 
point the thread may be drawn as far as 
the span wil! open, witheut breaking. 
Grand Perlé, Fourth Degree. — On 
still increasing the boiling, little raised 
balls are formed on the surface of the 
sugar. 
Petit Queue de Cochon, Fifth cae Bach 
—Take up some of the sugar on a skim- 
mer, and drop it on the rest, when it 


| should form a slanting streak on the sur- 


face. Boil it a little longer, and it will 
reach the ¢ piping 

Grande Queue de Cochon, or Siath 
gree. —The streak or tail is now larger. 

Souflé, Seventh Degree.— Take out a 
skimmerful of the sugar, blow through 
it, and small sparks of sugar will fly 
from it. : 

Petit-Plume, Eighth Degree. — The 
same proof asabove; the sparks should 
be larger and stronger. 

Grande Plume, Ninth Degree. —Take 
the sugar in the skimmer, as before, give 
it a shake, and if the sparks are large, 
and adhere tegether on rising, it is at the 
right point. Aa i 

Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree. — Dip 
your fingers in cold water, and then into 
the sugar instantly, and again into the 
water, when the sugar will roll into a 
ball, which will be supple when cold. 

Gros Boulet, Eleventh Degree.--At 
this point, the ball or bullet will be 
arder when cold than at the last. : 

Cassé, Twelfth Degree. — Prove as 
above ; the bullet should crumble. be- 
tween the fingers, and on biting, will 


| stick to the teeth ; at the next point, 


Caramel, Thirteenth Degree, — it 
should snap clean. This point is very 
difficult to attain, for in increasing, the 
height, the sugar is apt to burn; it is 
better therefore to try the proof very 
frequently. ; 








SUG 

Another caramel is frequently used by 
the confeetioner, and is of a deep colour ; 
it is made by putting a little water:to the 
sugar, aud boiling it without skimming, 
or otherwise touching the sugar, till of 
the right colour, then take it off and use 
immediately. 
_ If, on preparing the sugar, you happen 
to. miss the right point, add a little cold 
water, and boil once more. 

Observations.— The skimmer should 
never be left in the preserving-pan after 
the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum 
is removed. 

Be very careful not to stir or disturb 


the sugar, as that would cause its dimi- | 


nution. 

In boiling the sugar (particularly the 
two last degrees), the sugar is continually 
rising and falling; and on falling, leaves 
marks on the sides of the pan, which the 
heat of the fire would soon burn, and 
thereby spoil the whole of the sugar; to 
avoid this, have by the side of you a pan 
of cold water, and a sponge, with which 
wipe the sides of the pan carefully, the 
instant after the sugar has fallen. 

Sugar @ la Neige.*—Blanch a quarter 
of a pound of bitter almonds, pound them 
to a very fine paste ina marble mortar, 
with the whites of four eggs; when per- 
fectly smooth, add a pound of the best 
lump sugar (in powder), and five or six 
more whites of eggs; stir all together 
well, until of such consistence that it 
may be kneaded without adhering to the 
hands. Divide this preparation into two 
parts, one of which, tinge of ared colour, 
either with dolus armena, or cochineal, 
and perfume it with essential oil of roses 
or bergamot; leave the other portion of 
paste white, but flavour it as follows :— 
grate the rind of two fine sound lemons 
on a small piece of sugar, scrape off the 
surface, and when pounded in a small 


mortar, work it into the uncoloured por- | 


tion of sugar-paste, then roll it out to 
about half an inch in thickness (having 
previously sprinkled the slab with pow- 
der-sugar), cut it with a tin paste-cutter 
about two inches diameter ; arrange them 
on white paper, which place on a baking 
tin, and put them into a moderate oven 
for about three-quarters of an hour; 


coloured paste. Whencold, detach them 
from the paper. 

Sucar Paste.—Take a pound of flour, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, a little salt, one 


This paste may be used for any second- 
course dish. 

Sucarn Vinegar.—To every gallon of 
water put two pounds of the very coarsest 


( 463 ) 


SYL- 


sugar, boil, and skim it thoroughly, then 
| put one quart of cold water for every 
‘gallon of hot. When cool, but not cold, 
_ put into it a toast spread with yeast 5 stir 
it for nine days, at the end of which time 


barrel it, and place it in such a situation 


| that the sun may lie on it; puta slate 

on the bung-hole. 
make it is in March; it will be fitfor use 
in six months. 


The best time ta 


When sufficiently sour, it should be 


bottled, or it may be used from the cask 


with a wooden spigot and faucet. 
SWEETBREADS. — (See under the 
articles, Veal, Beef, &c.) 
SweEeTBReAD Pie,—Lay a puff paste, 
half an inch thick, at the bottom of a 
deep dish, and put a forcemeat round the 


| sides ; cut three or four sweetbreads in 
pieces, according to the size of the pie, 


lay them in first, then some artichoke- 
bottoms, each cut into four parts; then 
some cocks’-combs, a few trufiles, morels, 
asparagus-tops, and mushrooms, yolks 
of hard boiled eggs, and forcemeat. balls; 
season with pepper and salt; nearly fill 
the pie with water, put on the lid, and 
let it bake for two hours. Thicken some 


| veal gravy with a little cream and flour, 
| and pour into the pie wher baked. 


SWEETMEATS, Brown.* — These 
sweetmeats may be made with the cut- 
tings and remains of any kind of sugars 
or candied articles, and even of spiced 
bread; pound whatever ingredients you 
intend to use, extremely fine, and pass 
the powder through a tammy on to the 
table; in the centre of this heap make a 
hollow, into which put as many eggs as 
may be necessary to form a paste, then 
cinnamon, cloves, and bolus armena, 


| all reduced to an impalpable powder ; 


use only a sufficient quantity of the 
latter to give the paste a clear cinnamon 
colour 5 sugar may be added, if required. 
Work all the above ingredients together 
into a firm paste with a little flour, then 
roll it out to about a quarter of an inch 


-in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin 


paste-cutters, figures of any kind youmay 


| think proper; place them on white paper, 
|} and bake them for half an hour. 
| done, decorate them according to your 
: | taste. 

proceed in the same manner with the 


When 


SweetMeaT Pudding.—Slice thin, of 
orange, lemon-peel, and citron, an ounce 


| each ; laythem at the bottom of a dish, 


lined with a light puff-paste ; mix with 
half a pound of butter melted, the yolks 


) : | of seven eggs and the whites of two, and 
ege > mix all together with a little water. | 


five ounces of sugar; pour this over the 


| sweetmeats, and set it in the oven; it 
| will take rather more than half an hour 


baking. ee 
- SYLLABUBS.*—Take the juice of a 


TAN 


large lemon, the peel (pared very thin) 
a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar 3 
put these ingredients into a pan, and 
leave them; the next day, add a pint of 
thick cream, and the whites of two eggs ; 
whip the whole well, and pour the syl- 
labub into glasses. ‘They are the better 
for keeping a day or two. Ifthe sylla- 
bubs are not wanted quite so good as the 
above, raisin of mountain wine will do 
as well as brandy. 

SyLtuaBus, Somersetshire.—Put a pint 
of port, and a pint of sherry, or any other 
white wine, into a large bowl, sweeten it 
according to taste; milk the bow! full ; 
in about twenty minutes’ time, cover it 
tolerably high with clouted cream; grate 
nutmeg over it; add pounded cinnamon, 
and nonpareils. 

SytuaBus, Sfaffordshire.—Put a pint 
of eyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; 
or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot 
some height into it. 


"Ls 


TABLETTES de Patience.* — Take 
eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm 
snow; in the mean time have the yolks 
beaten up with six ounces of powder-su- 
gar; (both these operations should be 
performed for at Jeast half an hour); 
then mix the two together, add six ounces 
of sifted flour, and when well incorporat- 
ed, pour in halfa pint of rose or orange- 
flower water ; stir the whole together for 
some time. Have ready some tin plates, 
well rubbed with butter; take a funnel 
that has three or four tubes, fill it with 
the paste, and push out your ¢ablettes ; 
when the tin plates are full, put them 
into a pretty warm Oven. When done, 
take them from the tins whilst hot. 

TANSEY Fritters. — Pour a pint of 
boiling milk on the crumb of asmall loaf 
grated; let it stand for an hour to cool, 
then add as much tansey juice as will 
flavour it, and colour it with a little 
spinach juice; adda spoonful of ratafia, 
or brandy, grate the rind of halfa lemon, 
sugar according to taste, beat up the 
yolks of four eggs, and mix all together, 
put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a 
pound of butter ; stir it over a slow fire 
till quite thick ; then take it off, and let 
it stand nearly three kours, then dropa 
spoonful at atime into boiling lard ; when 
done, grate sugar over them, and serve. 
Garnish the dish with slices of orange, 
and serve wine sauce in a boat. 

Tansey Fyitters.—Pound some tansey 
with a few almonds, a carp-roe, and the 


x 


( 464 ) 


TAR 


crumb of a small loaf; mix with the paste 
some powder-sugar, and a little rose- 
water; fry them in butter; drain, sprin- 


_kle sugar over, and serve them very hot. 


Tansey Pudding.—Blanch and pound 
very fine a quarter of a pound of sweet 
almonds, then put them into a stewpan ; 
add a quarter of a pint of syrup of roses 
the crumb of a French roll, a little grated 
nutmeg, a glass of brandy, two table- 
spoonsful of tansey juice, three ounces of 
fresh butter, and some slices of citron; 
pour over this a pint of boiling cream or 
milk, sweeten according to taste, and 
when cold, mix all well together; add 


| the juice of a lemon, and eight eggs 


beaten. It may be either baked or 
boiled. Sheer de ae 

Tansry Pudding.—Beat up the yolks 
of twelve, and the whites of four eggs ; 
put to them a quart of cream ; colour 
this with spinach juice, and flavour with 
tansey juice, adda little salt, some nut- 
meg, and a good pinch of flour; put this 
into a dish lined with a light puff-paste, 
and bake it in a brisk oven 3 it will take 
half an hour baking. Serve to table gar- 
nished with Seville orange, cut in slices, 
and candied peel. eat vin > 

TAPIOCA Pudding.*—Put four table- 
spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, 
and let it remain all night, then puta 
spoonful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and 
a little spice; let them boil gently, add 
four eggs, and the whites well beaten, 
and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Bake 


it. 

TARRAGON Cream.—Boil some tar-. 
ragon in half a pint of cream and a pint” 
of milk, as long as is necessary to flavour 
it; then strain the cream, and, if to be: 
served hot, add the yolksof five eggs, and 
some flour; when well mixed, pour the 
preparation into a dish, place it in the 
bain-marie to set. If it is to be served 
cold, when the cream is strained, and no 
more than lukewarm, put in a little ren< 
net; strain it into your table dish, laya 
tin over it, on which put hot embers, 
place the dish also on embers, and let it 
remain till set. a Like 

Tarracon Sauce.— Put two table-: 
spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a 
saucepan, and reduce it to half the quan- 
tity, then put to it six spoonsful of good 
butter sauce, a little tarragon, and cher- 
vil chopped, and mix all well together, 
and if not sufficiently strong, put in a 
little bit of glaze, and a very little more. 
tarragon vinegar. ner AN 

Tarracon Sauce.*— Put into a sauce- 
pan two or three sliced onions, two car- 
rots also sliced, and a bit of veal cut inte. 
dice; set them on the fire, and when 


they begin to stick, and brown, add some 








“TAR 


good stock, simmer for about an hour; 
then put ina little shred tarragon leaves, 
two or three slices of Seville-orange, 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; in a quarter 
of an hour’s time strain it. 

Tarragon Sauce.*—Cut some tarra- 
gon leaves into squares, or lozenges, and 
scald them}; put some consommé or ve- 
louté ; set it on the corner of the stove, 
take off al! the fat, make the sauce boil, 
throw in the leaves, add a small quantity 
of vinegar, and some butter, and serve. 

‘Tarracon Vinegar.*—Take some tar- 
ragon, dry it in the sun, and then put it 
into a jar, which fill with vinegar ; Ict it 
infuse for a fortnight, then draw it off, 
éxpress all the liquid from the dregs, 
and filter the whole; bottle it; cork them 
well, and keep them in a cool place. 

TARTE Royale (Berlin).*—Take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, and having 
blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a 
marble mortar to a very fine paste, add 
to it a pound of broken sugar, a pound of 
fresh butter, and the grated rind of two 
lemons, beat it well as each ingredient is 
put in; lay about sixteen or eighteen 
ounces of sifted flour on the slab, place 
the almond-paste on it, and knead them 
well together. Divide this into several 

ieces, which roll to the eighth of an 
inch in thickness; from these cut. from 
twelve to sixteen circular layers, the 
largest about seven inches in diameter, 
the rest, each somewhat smaller than the 
other ; when all are cut, place them on 
white paper on tins, and bake them ina 
moderate oven to a clear brown, then 
take them out, and let them cool. As 
soon as cold, place the Jargest piece on a 
china dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay 


flat, and spread over it equally some pre- | 


served fruit; cover this with the second 
sized layer, on which also spread pre- 
served fruit; then a third layer, and so 
on until all the paste is used, taking care 
to put each layer in its proper order, so 
that the whole may form a cone, and that 
between every one must be a different 
kind of preserve ; when done, glaze, and 
ernament it as follows : cut some candied 
lemon, and orange-peel into the form of 
leaves, which arrange in garlands round 
the tart, putting here and there a smal] 
preserved fruit; when done, replace it in 


the oven for two or three minutes to dry, | 


and then serve. 

TARTLETS. — Butter some small 
tartlet pans ; line them with a nice thin 
putf-paste, mark it neatly round the 
edges, bake them ; when they are cold, 
fill them with custard, preserve, or any 
sweetmeat you think proper, and if you 
choose, pour custard over. : 

. Tartitetrs.— Cover with a thin short 


€ 465 ) 





TEA 


paste two or three dozen small: tartlet 


pans, then put into them any preserve or 


sweetmeat you think proper ; then shred: 
some paste very fine, and neatly cross 
them over; there are moulds for this 
purpose, which do them much neater 
and more quickly ;}. when they are all 
done, egg them, lay them on a baking 
tin, and bake them in’a quick oven. 

TEA Cream.—Infuse an ounee of the 
best green tea in half a pint of boiling 
milk, simmer it five minutes, then strain 
it through a tammy, pressing the leaves 
well. Boil a pint of rich cream, add to 
it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and 
a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar ; 
pour this whilst hot to the milk, stirthem 
together well; put in as much clarified 
isinglass as will set it,and pour the cream 
into the mould,.or glasses; place them on 
ice; when. perfectly cold, turn it out of 
the mould, or serve in the glasses. 

Tea Cream.* — Boil two drachms (or 
more) of good green tea in a quart of 
milk; in a few minutes strain it; add 


| three yolks of eggs well beaten, a quarter 


of a pound of powder-sugar ; set it on the 


| fire, and reduce it to half, then strain it 
| again ; when cold, serve it. 


TEA Ice.*—Take two drachms of the 


| best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and boik 


it in two quarts of cream; when the in- 


| fusion is sufficiently strong, take out the 
} muslin, squeeze it well, and mix the 

ei with the eggs and sugar as direct- 
ed. 


(See Ice Cream). 
TEAL @ la Batelére. * — Take the 


| legs, fillets, and rumps of some teal, cut 
| the fillets lengthwise in three pieces, put 


them all into a stewpan with a bit of but- 


'ter, some chopped shalots, and parsley, 


salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; set it 
on a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes, 
then add a dessert-spoonful of flour, and 
a glass of white wine; stir, till it boils $ 


if the sauce be too thin, add half a glass 


more wine. Stir in the juice of two 


| lemons, a little of the peel, two or three 


ladlesful of stock, just before serving. 
Trat Roasted.—They should be taken 


up with the gravy in ; whilst doing, baste 
| them well with butter; and then before 


being taken up with a little salt, poura 
good gravy over them, and serve shalot 


| sauce in a boat. 


Tea Roasted.*—Shred a little lemon- 
peel, and mix it with a bit of butter, salt, 


| pepper, and lemon-juice; stuff your birds 


with this, cover them first with slices of 
lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered 
paper sprinkled with salt; tie them up 
securely, fasten them to the spit, ana 
roastthem. When done, let the butter 
run out, remove the wrappers, and dish 
them. Serve them with a sauce made as 


TEN 
follows : put into a saucepan three ladles- 
ful of espagnole, a spoonful of consommé, 
a bit of glaze, the rind of a quarter of a 
lemon, and a little pepper; give them a 
_— up together, and strain it over the 
teal. 

TENCH.—They are a fine flavoured 
fresh water fish ; when good, the eyes are 
bright, the body stiff, and the outside 
free from slime; tench should be dressed 
as soon as caught. 

Tencu Broiled with Herbs.*— Take 
three or four tench as fresh as possibie, 
plunge them into boiling water, scrape 
off the scales carefully, beginning with 
the head; cleanse them thoroughly, and 
put them into a marinade of oil, with 
shred parsley, scallions, and shalots, 
thyme, bay-leaf, salt and pepper. Wrap 
them in a double paper, enclosing the 
marinade, and broil them. Take off the 
paper before sending to table. Serve 
them on a piguante, anchovy, or caper 
sauce, 

Tencu (Fricassee of ).*— Cleanse the 
tench, scald, and take off the head, tail, 
and fins: cut the fish into three or four 
pieces, and put them into a stewpan, 
with some white wine, bay-leaf, pepper, 
and salt. Dissolve some butter with a 
clove of garlic in it; toss up a few morels 
in it, then add a glass of white wine, and 
the same of fish gravy, smal! onions, and 
carp-roes; pour this over the fish, let 
the whole simmer a short time, and then 
serve. 

Tencn Fried.*—Takea couple of large 
tench, scale and cleanse them as for broil- 
ing. Cut off the fins, split them down 
the back, take out the bones; sprinkle 
them with flour and salt; squeeze a 
little lemon-juice over, and fry them in 
butter, and serve them dry. 

Tencu (Matelote of ).*— Dissolve two 
ounces of butter in a stewpan; add to it 
a dozen small onions, a few mushrooms, 
a bunch of parsley and scallions, two-or 
three cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, a little 
flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of white 
wine ; when these have simmered a quar- 
ter of an hour, put in the tench cut in 
pieces; as soon as the fish is done, add 
capers and a chopped anchovy; make a 
liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and 
serve with fried bread. 

Trncnw au Monargue.—Open the fish 
‘down the back, take out the bone, and 
some of the meat; mince the latter with 
some shalots, mushrooms, and parsley ; 
mix these with a little panada, an ounce 
of butter, the yolks of two eggs, salt and 
pepper; stuff the tench with this, fry 
them lightly, and serve with a ragoit 
made as folluws: cut two or three arti- 
choke bottoms into quarters, and put 


( 466 ) 
‘them into a little melted butter, with 


‘the back; take out the 


TEN 


mushrooms, shalots, sweet herbs, and a 
couple of cloves; when these have stewed 
a short time, add a glass of wine, the 
same of stock, tench or carp-roes. cray- 
fish tails, pepper and salt; make the 
ragoit thick, and squeeze in a little 
lemon-juice. ‘ 
- Tencn Pie.—Put a layer of butter at 
the bottom of a dish, and grate in some 
nutmeg, add pepper, salt, and mace 5 
then lay in the tench, cover them with 
butter, and pour in some red wine and a 
little water; put on the lid; when baked, 
pour in melted butter, mixed with good 
ricn gravy. . on 

Tenca au Pontife.—Take a couple of 
fine tench, scald, and split them down 
ones and meat 
carefully, so that the skin be not broken 5 
mince the latter, and mix it with grated 
bread soaked in wine, scraped bacon, 
calf’s udder, parsley, shalots, and mush- 
rooms (all shred), pepper, salt, and yolks 
of eggs; fill the skins with this farce,and 
fasten them up to look like the original 
form. Dip them in oil or melted butter ; 
cover them with bread crumbs; lay them 
on thin slices of bacon in a dish, and bake 
them. When done, and ofa nice colour, 
drain off the fat, and serve witha rich 
sauce. 

Tencu au Restaurant.*—Prepare your 
tench as directed (Tench Stuffed) ; and 
then soak them in melted butter, with 


parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; when » 


thoroughly saturated, cover them with 
grated bread, place them between thin 
slices. of bread and butter, on a well but- 
tered dish. Pour over them some carp 
or other fish gravy, and bake them ina 
slow oven. 

Tencu Roasted.*— Take off scales, 
heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and 
dry them well, then put into each a little 
butter, mixed with sweet herbs ; lay them 
for about five minutes in melted butter, 
with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs ; wrap 
each fish in paper, fasten them to a spit, 
and roast them. 

Trencn in a Salmis or Hash.—Tho- 
roughly clean and wash the tench, then 
cut off the head, and split it down the 
back, and cut both the sides into three 
or four pieces; have ready on the fire 
some good consummé in a large stewpans 
with 2 carrot, onion, some pareley, pep= 

ercorns, salt, a clove of garlic, a bay- 
eaf, a bit of lean ham, and halfa bottle 
of port. Let the tench stew in this till 
well done, and then put it into another 
stewpan. The liquor in which the fish 
was done, must be stewed down with four 
large spoonsful.of sauce ¢ournée till it is 
of a moderate thickness, then squeeze in 








TIM 


the juice of half a lemon, and serve it to 
table very hot. 


Tencu (40 Souse).—Having drawn the 


tench, clear away the slime, and cut. off 
the gills; put the fish into a kettle with 
some water, vinegar, bay-leaves, sweet 
herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. 
When done, take off the joose scales, and 
lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain 
the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass 
to it, boil it a little while, then strain it 
again, and pour it overthe fish. It must 
not be touched till quite cold. 

Tencn, Stewed with /Wine.—Let the 
tench be well cleansed,and crimped, then 
set it in a stewpan with some good con- 
_ sommé, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, 
a bay-leaf, and some pepper-corns 5 let 
it stew gently between two fires till well 
done ; then take it out, lay it ona dish, 
then make the liquer tolerably thick, by 
stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce 
tournée ; if not perfectly smooth, squeeze 
it through a tammy, put in the juice, add 
a very little cayenne pepper, and pour 
this sauce over the fish ; garnish with veal 
forcemeat, ; 

Tencn Stuffed.—Cut off the tails and 
fins of your tench, split them down the 

back, take out the large bone, and fill the 
spaces with a farce, composed of carp, 
smelts, or any other fish ; close the open- 
ing with flour, and fry them in butter. 
When about two thirds done, put them 
into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good 
stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, 
and salt; finish dressing them over a 
gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and 
serve them. 

Ternine, de Nerac.*—Take four fine 
partridges, truss them with the legs in- 
wards, and partly dress them. Makea 
farce of some pieces, and livers of par- 
tridges, double the quantity of bacon, 
pound these well, season them with 
spices and sweet herbs (in powder), salt, 

epper, and the trimmings of _trufiles ; 
have ready two pounds of truffles, pick- 
ed and washed. Split the partridges 
down the back, season and stuff them 
with the farce and truffles; put a layer 
of farce at the bottom of the tureen, put 
the partridges on it, fill up the intersti- 
ces with the truffles and farce, cover the 
whole with rashers of bacon and two 
bay-leaves, put on the lid cf the tureen, 
fasten it down with paste, and bake it for 
three hours. 

THORNBACK. — Let them hang at 
least one day before being dressed ; they 
may be served either boiled or fried, in 
bread-crumbs, being first dipped in eggs. 

THRUSHES.—These birdsare dress- 
ed the same as woodcocks. 

TIMBALE,.*—Pnta pound of flour on 


( 467 ) 


TOA 


the slab, make a holein the middle of it; 
into which pour a little water, three or 
four spoonsful of oil, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, the yolks of two eggs, anda 
pinch of salt; knead these ingredients 
thoroughly into the flour, until it be- 
comes a tolerably firm paste ; roll it out 
to nearly half an inch in thickness, line 
one large, or several small plain round 
moulds, with this paste; let the moulds 
be well buttered, and the paste come 
about half an inch above the top of the 
mould ; fill your tméale with any farce, 
or ragofit, you think proper, cover it with 
a layer of paste, pressing the edges to- 
gether; bake it, and when done, turn 
the ¢imbale on a dish, make a hole, pour 
in some rich sauce, or gravy, and serve. 

TOASTS, with Butter.*—Spread but- 
ter over some slices of fried bread; lay 
on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted 
butter, and serve. 

Toasts, Genoa.—Lard a French roll 
with partly anchovies, and partly ham 3 
cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin 
slice of bacen, dip them into batter, and 
fry them; drain, and serve with ravigote. 

Toasts, @ la Grenade.*—Cut some fat 
and jean bacon into dice, give them a 
few turns over the fire with parsley, 
scallions, shalots, pepper, salt, and the 
yolks of three eggs; stir it frequently, 
till it forms a kind of forcemeat, spread 
it over slices of bread, cut of an equal 
thickness, and fry them. 

Toasts, @ l’Itakenne.* — Cut some 
slices of bread, about half an inch in 
thickness, fry them in sweet oil, let it be 
dry, and crisp; lay them on a dish, and 
spread over them any light good farce 
you may think proper; pour over therm 
an appropriate sauce, and serve them. 

Toasts, @ /’ Italienne.* — Pound the 
white meat of a fowl, with some Parme- 
san cheese, and dry currants, mix with 
these ingredients the yolks of eggs in 
due proportions; roil them into fingers 
with flour, until they cease to adhere to 
your hand, fry them in boiling lard, and 
serve with either salt or sugar. 

Toast, a la Minime.—Cut some slices 
of bread, half an inch thick, and divide 
them into slips, fry them in a little oil, 
and when ofa nice colour, lay them on a 
dish, with fillets of anchovies; put sha- 
lots, parsley. garlic, a bay-leaf, thyme, 
(all shred small), whole pepper, and a 
little vinegar, into the oil, toss them 
up init, and then strain it over the 
toast. 

Toasts, Pownded. — Pound together 
a piece of puff paste, a cold roasted veal- 
kidney, some of the fat, a few bitter al- 
monds, orange-flowers, lemon-peel, pre- 
served citron, a pinch of salt, and a hittle 


TOM 


sugar; bind these together, with the 
whites of four eggs, beaten well; spread 
this preparation over slices of bread, cut 
as for toast, and bake them. 

Toasts, Puffed.—Pound together the 
breast of a roast fowl, some beef marrow, 
and Parmesan cheese, mix with this paste 
five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the 
whites whipped to a froth, spread it over 
slices of fried bread; egg them, and 
strew grated bread, and Parmesan cheese 
over, bake them a little while, and serve 
them with a good relishing sauce. 

Toasts, Spanish.—Roll out some al- 
mond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it 
inta pieces, about two inches square, 
press them down with a square piece of 
wood, a little smaller than the paste, 


which will leave the edges higher than | 


the rest; bake them, and when cold, 


pour in any prepared cream you please, | 


as high as the borders; ice, and colour 
them with a salamander. 

_ TOMATAS, Garniture of.* — Take 
thirty tomatas, all as near of a size as 
possible, and of a gocd form; cut them 
jn halves, press out the juice, seeds, and 
pieces by the side of the stalk, but do it 
with great care, lest the skins should be 
injured ; make a farce as follows: take a 


little ham, garlic, parsley, shalots, cham- - 


pignons (shred), the yolks of two hard 


eggs, crumb of bread, an anchovy, but- 


ter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice ; give all 


these a boil, and then pound them well, 
adding at times a little oii; strain it| 


through a guenelle sieve ; fill the tomatas 
with this farce, place them on a baking 
tin, cover them with grated bread, and 


Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a 


little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. 


Serve the tomatas as a garnish toa rump | 


of beef, or any other joint you may think 
proper. 

Tomata, Ketchup.* — Take tomatas 
when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till 
tender, strain them, and rub them 


through a sieve. ‘To every pound of juice, | 


add a pint of chili vinegar, an ounce of 
shalots, half an ounce of garlic, both 
sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and 
a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, 
finely powdered; boil the whole till 
every ingredient is soft, rub it again 
through the sieve. To every pound add 
the juice of three lemons} boil it again 
to the consistence of cream; when cold, 
_ bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet 
oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep 
it in a dry place. 

Tomaras, Preserved,*—Gather some 
very ripe tomatas ; having washed and 


drained them, cut them into pieces, | 


which put into a well-tinned copper 


saucepan, set it on the fire, and when | 


( 468 ) 





TON 


the tomatas are quite dissolved, and re- 
duced one-third in quantity, ss it 
through a coarse sieve, but sufficiently 
so to retain the seeds; replace the pulp 
on the fire, let it boil till reduced to one- 
third of the original quantity; then put 
it into a pan, and when cold bottle it; 
close them hermetically, wrap each bot- 
tle in cloth, and put them into a large 
saucepan filled with water; cover the 
saucepan, and put a wet cloth over the 
lid to prevent the least evaporation 3 ‘set 
the saucepan on the fire to boil for an 
hour and a half or two hours. After that 
time take it from the fire, draw off the 
water ; in half an hour remove the eloth, 
and in another hour take ont the bottles; 
the next day resin the corks. 

Tomata Sauce Frangaise.*—Cut ten 
or a dozen tomatas inte quarters, and put 
them into a saueepan, with four onions 
sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, 
anda quarter of a pound of butter; set 
the saucepan on the fire, stirring oeca- 
sionally for three quarters of an hour; 
Strain the sauce dovoeat a horse-hair 
Biv es and serve with the directed arti- 
cles. . 

Tomata, Sauce, a I’ Italienne.*—Take 
five or six onions, slice, and putthem into 
asaucepan,with a little thyme, bay-leaf, 
twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter, 
salt,nalfa dozen alispice, alittle India saf- 
fron, and a glass of stock; set them on 
the fire, taking care to stir it frequently, 
as it is apt to stick; when you perceive 
the sauce is tolerably thick, strain it like 
a purée. we 

TONGUE.—A tongue which has not 
been dried will require very little soak- 
ing, but if dried, it should be soaked in 
water for three or four hours; then put 
it into cold water, and let it boil gently. 
till tender. 

Tonaves, Pickle for.*—Halfa pound 
of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of 
bay salt, the same of moist sugar, three 
pounds of common salt, and two gallons 
of soft water; boil the whole together, 
and skim it well. When cold, pour it 
over the tongue. This pickle will not 
require boiling again for six weeks. 

Toneue, to Pickle.* — Take a fine 
neat’s tongue, and put it inte the follow- 
ing pickle: four gallons of water, four 
pounds of commen salt, the same of bay- 
salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, 
two ounces of saltprunella, one ounce of 
allum, and a pound of coarse sugar}; boil 
these together, skimming it well. Lay 
in the tongue, let it remain ten days, 
turning it two or three times in that 
period. Dry the tongue by a wood fire. 

Toneve, Potted.—Do it as for pick 
ling ; when it has laid its proper time, 





ee a a 


a hint a hii 


ee ee ee 








TOU 


cut off the root, boil it until it will peel ; 
_then season it with salt, pepper, cloves, 
-mace, and nutmeg, all beat fine; rub the 
Seasoning weli in while itis hot, purit 
into a pan, pour melted butter over it, 
-and send it to the oven; an hour is suffi- 
cient to bake it; when done, let it stand 
to cool, rub a little more spice over it, 
and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in; 
when the butter it was baked in, is cold, 
. take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it 
Over the tongue ; if there is not sufficient 
.to cover it, more must be added ; the but- 
termust bean inch higker thanthe tongue. 
Toneue, Stewed.—Let it simmer for 
-two hours in just sufficient quantity of 
water to cover it; then peel it, and put 
it into the liquor again, with some pep- 
per, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, 
tied in a bit of muslin; a few capers, 
turnips, cut in very small pieces, and 
carrots, sliced; half a pint of beef gravy, 
a little white wine, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs; let it stew very gently until ten- 
der, then take out the spice and sweet 
herbs, and thicken it with a piece of but- 
ter, rolled in flour. ; 
Tonaug, and Udder Roasted.—Parboil 
the tongue and udder, stick in them ten 
or twelve cloves, roast them, and baste 
with red wine, and froth them nicely 
-with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy 
and sweet sauce. The udder eats well 
boiled with the tongue, ' 
Toneve, and Udder, Stuffed. with 
Forcemeat, and Roasted. — Boil the 
tongue and udder until tender, peel the 
tongue, stick it with a few cloves, raise 
the udder, wash the inside with the yolk 
of ege, make a good forcemeat. of veal» 
and fill it; tie the ends close together, 
and roast them ; baste. them with red 
wise and butter. Serve with good gravy, 
and currant jelly. (For other methods 
of dressing tongue, see neat’s tongue.) 
' TOURTE, & ?Anglaise.*—Take two 
ounces of stoned raisins, one ounce of 
currants, some candied cedrats, cut into 
ice, mix these with some frangipane, a 
little beef marrow, dissolved, and asmall 
quantity of Madeira wine, and proceed as 
directed. (See Tourte of Frangipane.) 
TourteE, d’ Entrée.*—Make a paste as 
for timbales ; ro\l outa part of it a quar- 
ter of an inch thick, and cut it into two 
circular pieces, one of eight inches in 
diameter, and the other nine inches and 
a half. Take thirty-six or forty balls, 
about the size of a pigeon’s egg, of godz- 
veau, half of eh lay on the smalier 
‘piece of the pasie, leaving an inch all 
round; on these place some scollops of 
sweetbreads, dressed in sweet herbs, 
ehampignons, and artichoke bottoms cut 


in pieces; then put the remainder of the 


( 489) 


TOU 


balls, four cray-fish, champignons, and 
artichoke bottoms. Place all these arti- 
cles in the form of a dome, and put the 


larger piece of paste over the whole, turn 


the edge of the lower piece over the 
other, and press them together; takea 
band of puff paste, long enough to go 
round the bottom of the fourte, an inch 
and a quarter deep, and the same thick- 
ness as the above-mentioned layers; fix 
this round the zourte, and pinch or mark 
it in proper form; take the cuttings of 
the tourte paste, rol] it into small bands, 
all the same length and size, and place 
them on the top of the dome, so as to 
make a kind of false top in the form ofa 
rosette ; dorez this, puta piece of strong 
paper, buttered, round the band of puff 
paste, and place the ¢ourfe in a brisk 
oven, for an hour anda half. It should 
be looked at whilst baking, as it hap- 
pens sometimes that too much air is en- 
enclosed in the tourte, which, by the 
heat of the oven, expands, and thereby 
Spoils its appearance : in this case, when 
the crust begins to harden, makea hole 
at the top, with the head of a pin, the air 
can thus escape, and the shape of the 
tourte be preserved. When done, cut 
neatly a small piece out of the top, pour 
in some espagnole, put the piece on again, 
and serve. aR 
Tourte, d’Entrée, au Chasseur.*¥— 
Take a small partridge, and a small 
snipe, cut each in half, two quails, six 
jarks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, 
and four truffles, each cut into five slices ; 
put al) these into a pan, with some but- 
ter and sweet herbs; season them, and 
set them on the fire; when all the above 
are. warmed through, take off the pan, 
and leave them to cool. In the mean- 
time, prepare your éourte, as directed, 
and lay in the game in the form of a 
dome, filling up the spaces with the 
herbs, in which the articles were dressed. 
Cover it in the usual way, and bake it in 
a brisk oven for an hour and a half. 
When done, pour in some espugnole, 
mixed with a fumet of game, and truffles. 
Tourts, en Puts.—Scoop out the in- 
sides of half a dozen large onions, throw 
them into boiling water, a minute, then 
drain, and fill the cavities with some of 
the following farce ; mince small some 
scalded sweetbreads, mushrcoms, truffles, 
shalots, parsley, and bacon; mix these 
with the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and 
salt. Put a layer of this also over the 
bottom of a deep dish, lined with puff- 
paste, place the onions on it, add a little 
butter, cover them with a puff paste, 
and bake for two hours in a moderate 
even. When dene, pour in some rich 
SRG ane serve it hot. s 


TRI 


TREACLE, Pudding.*—Mix together 
a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters 
of a pound of shred suet,a pound of flour, 
a pintof milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, 
grated ginger, and pounded spice; when 
well stirred up, tie it in a floured cloth, 

_and boil it four hours. 

_TRIFLE.*—Cover the bottom of the 
dish with Naples biscuits, and imaca- 
roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy 
and white wine, poured over them; 
cover them with patches of raspberry 
jam ; fill the dish with a good custard, 
then whip up a syllabub, drain the froth 
on a sieve; put it on the custard, and 
strew comfits over all. 

TriFLte. — Sweeten three pints of 
cream; add to it half a pint of mountain 
wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, 
Squeeze in the juice, and grate in halfa 
nutmeg; whisk this up, lay the froth on 
a large sieve, and the sieve over a dish 
that has ratafia cakes, macaroons, sweet 
almonds, blanched and pounded, citron, 
and candied orange-peel, cut into small 
pleces, some currant jelly, and rasp- 
berry jam init, that the liquor may ran 

upon them; when they are soaked, lay 
them in the dish you intend to serve in, 
put on the froth as high as possible, 
well drained ; strew over nonpareils, and 
stiek on little slices of citron, orange, or 
lemon-peel. 

TRIFLE,—Lay some macaroons and ra- 
tafia drops over the bottom of your dish, 
and soak them well with raisin wine, 
when soaked, pour on them a very rich 
cold custard. It must stand two or three 
inchesthick; on that put a layer of rasp- 
berry jam, and cover the whole with a 
very high whip made the preceding day, 
of rich cream, the whites of two eggs, 
well beaten, sngar, lemon-peel, and rai- 
sin wine, well beat with a whisk. It is 
best to make it the day before it is want- 
ed, being more solid and better tasted. 

‘Prirve.*—Put half a pound of maca- 

roons into a dish, pour over them some 
white wine, and a pint of custard over 
that, make a whip, and put on it ; garnish 
aecording to your fancy. 
_ TRIPE, Breaded.* —Cut your tripe 
into small square pieces, and give them 
‘a few turns in some butter, with parsley, 
salt, and pepper}; roll each bit in grated 
bread, and broil them slowly. When 
done, serve them with slices of lemon. 

Tripe (Kilkenny), Irish Dish.*—Cut 
a piece of double tripe into square pieces, 
peel, and wash ten large onions, cut each 
in two, and boil them in a little water till 
tender, then put in the tripe; when it 
has boiled ten minutes, pour off all the 
Viquor, shake a little flour into it, and 
add some butter, mustard, and salt; 


( 470 ) 


TRO 
shake the whole over the fire, till the 
butter is melted; then dish, and serve 
as hot as possible; garnish with lemon 
sliced, or barberries. — ; agg 
Trire, Stewed.*—Cut a pound of tripe 
into pieces, and put it into a small sauce- 
pan, with halfa ope of milk, three oun- 
ces of rice, a little allspice, and. pepper, 
pounded, and a little celery-seed tied in 
a bit of muslin; letthe whole stew gently 
for four hours, and serve. (For other 
methods of dressing tripe, see beef. ~ 
TROUT .—This fish is held in great es- 
timation,it is afresh water fish,and when 
good, of a flesh colour, and the spots 
upon it are very bright; the female its 
considered the best, and is known by the 
head being smaller, and the body being 
deeper than that of the male. It is most 
in season during the month of June. 
Trout, @ I Anglaise.*—Boil the fish 
in a court-bouillon, take off the fillets, 
lay them on a dish, and keep them hot 
in the dazn-marze. Roll some butter in 
flour, dissolve it in either veal or fish 
gravy, according as you wish to serve it, 
in gras or maigre ; adda slice or two of 
lemon, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir it 
well over the fire, squeeze in a little 
lemon-juice, and pour the sauce, whilst 
boiling, over thé fillets. 
Trout Batled.—Boil them with some 
vinegar in the water, some salt, and a 
bit of horse-radish ; serve with white 
sauce, anchovy sauce, or plain butter. | 
Trout Collared.— They are done in 
the same manner as eels are collared. — 
Trout Fried.— After they are well 
scaled, ‘gutted, and washed, dry them, 
rub them with yolk of egg, flour or strew 
fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them 
of a fine colour ; serve with crisped par- 
sley, and plain butter, or anchovy sauce. 
Trout @ la Genoise.*—Lay a trout in 
a fish-kettle, and put on it two carrots, 
and four onions, all sliced, parsley, scal- 
lions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two 
cloves, salt, pepper, and red wine} set it 
on the fire, and boil it three quarters of 
an hour; strain the liquor, and put it 
into another saucepan, with a quarter of 
a pound of butter, and three dessert- 
spoonsful of flour; set it on the fire, and 
stir till it is all well united; reduce it 
over a large fire, and when it will adhere 
to the spoon, serve it over the trout 
previously drained. 
Trour Marinaded.—Fry some trout 
in a sufficient quantity of oil to cover 
them, put them in when the oil is boil- 
ing 3 aS soon as they are crisp take them 
out, and lay them to drain till they are 
cold; then make a marinade of equal 
quantities of white wine and vinegar, 
with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg, 








TRO 


cloves, mace, sliced ginger, Savory, sweet 
marjorum, thyme, rosemary, a bay-leaf, 
and two onions ; let all these boil together 
for a quarter of an hour; put the fish 
into a pan, pour the marinade to them 
hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and 
white wine, which must be according to 
the quantity of fish, as there must bea 
sufficient quantity of liquor te cover 
them ; they will then keep for a month. 
Serve with oil and vinegar. 

Trout @ la Mariniére.*—Scale, and 
cleanse your fish as usual; put inside 
each a little butter mixed with sweet 
herbs, pepper, and salt; put them intoa 
stewpan, with as much white wine as 
will rise about an inch above them, add 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, onions, and crou- 
tons; set the whole on a fierce fire; if 
the wine does not catch, set it alight 
with a piece of lighted paper. When 
done, put into the sauce a bit of butter; 
this, if well stirred in, will make the 
liquor smooth and rich ; pour it over the 
fish and serve. 

Trout Pie.—Nicely lard a couple of 
trout with eels; raise a crust, and puta 
layer of fresh butter at the bottom ; make 
a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles, 
morels, and fresh butter; season with 
salt, pepper, and spice, and bind it with 
- the yolks of two raw eggs; stuff the trout 
with this forcemeat, then lay them in the 
pie upon the butter, and cover them with 
butter ; put on the lid, and send it to the 
oven; when done, pour in some good 
fish gravy. 

Trout @ la Saint Florentin*— Cut 
some fillets of trout the length and 
thickness of a finger; put these pieces 
into a pan, with the juice of two lemons, 
four onions sliced, parsley, two bay- 
leaves, a little thyme, salt, and pepper ; 
move them about frequently. When 
they have lain in it sufficiently long, 
drain them thoroughly; flour, and fry 
them in a very hot pan; serve them with 
sauce piquante. 

‘Trout Soused.—Well wash a couple 
of middling sized trout ; then take three 
pints of white wine vinegar, a quart of 
water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little 
lemon- pee], a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
pepper, salt, mace, and a grated nutmeg 3 
boil all these together in a stewpan sufh- 
ciently large to hold the trout; when it 
has boiled some time, put in the fish; as 
soon as they are done, lay them in a dtsh 
till they are cold; pour off the quer, 
take out the onion,and herbs, and let it 
stand till cold ; then take off all the fat, 
and pour the liquor over the fish; they 
will be ready for use the next day; if 
sent to table hot, serve with shrimp or 


( 471 ) 


TRU 


lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and 
garnish the dish with fried smelts, They 
are very good served cold, 

Trout Stewed.— Take a small one, 
stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter, 
parsley chopped, lemon- peel grated, pep- 
per, salt, nutmeg, savory, herbs, bind 
with yolk of egg; put it into a stewpan, 
with a quart of good boiled gravy, some 
Madeira wine, an onion, a little whole 
pepper, afew cloves, and a piece of lemon- 
peel; let all stew gently till done, then 
thicken with a little flour mixed in some 
cream, a little ketchup; boil it up; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice. 

Trout with Trufiles.* — When scaled 
and cleansed, lard them with truffles, and 
fill each with some fine truffle farce ; 
then braise them in wine, with truffles, 
white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt and 
pepper. Serve them with a ragoit of 
sliced truffles. 

Trout a lu Vénitienne.*—Slit the fish 
along the back, and putin a little butter 
and sweet herbs; soak them for half an 
hour in olive oil, then cover them with 
bread crumbs and sweet herbs; boil them 
over a slow fire; serve with a sauce, in 
which put two slices of orange. 

TRUFFLES,* — The truffle, like the 
mushroom, is a species of fungus com- 
mon in France and Italy; it generally. 
grows about eight or ten inches below 
the surface of the ground; as it imparts 
a most delicious flavour, it is much used 
in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, 
it requires a great deal of washing and 
brushing, before it can be applied to 
culinary purposes; when washed, the 
water should be warm, and changed fre- 
quently. It loses much of its flavour 
when dried. 

TruFFies @ la Cendre.*—Take a dozen 
truffles dressed with Champagne, have 
as many small slices of bacon as you have 
truffles; cut a quantity of square pieces 
of paper, on some of these put a bit of 
bacon, and a truffle seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and pounded spice ; wrap them 
in the bacon first, and then in the paper. 
Whenall are done,dip each paper intocold 
water, and then put them into hot ashes, 
like chesnuts. tn an hour’s time they 
will be sufficiently done. Take off the 
two outer coverings, andserve. 

TRUFFLES with Champagne.* — Take 
ten or twelve well cleaned truffles; put 
them into a stewpan on rashers of bacon, 
add a bay-leaf, a seasoned bouquet,a little 
grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two 
of ham, and a bottle of Champagne ; co- 
ver them with a piece of buttered paper, 
put on the lid, and set the stewpan on 
hot Bee. - put fire on the top, and let 


TRU 


them stew for an hour. When done, 
drain them on a clean cloth, and serve on 
a folded napkin. | :% +i 0 
~ TruFrss a l’ Italienne.*—Cut about a 


handful of truffles either into slices or | 
truffles as round as you can, wash them 
_in several waters, until the last water is 
quite clear; pick and cut them into 
slices or dice; give them a few turns in — 


dice; put them into a stewpan with a 
little butter; sweat them over a slow 
fire; then moisten with half a glass of 
Champagne, and two spoonsful of reduced 
espagnole ; add some shred _ parsley, and 
shalots, salt, and pepper; give the whole 
a boil, take off all the fat, put in a few 
drops of oil, and serve. . 
“TruFF es (to keep).*—Make a choice 
of the blackest truffles ; let them be fresh 
gathered ; when thoroughly washed and 
brushed, peel them carefully with a sharp 
knife, reject all which are not perfectly 
sound; put them into bottles as close as 
they will lay; cork them tight, and boil 
them for an hour in the baiz-marie. 
Trurrues @ la Minute.* — Take as 
many well washed truffles as you may 
require; slice them into a dish that will 
bear the fire; add tothem, shred parsley, 
scallions, and shalots, salt, pepper, and 
alittle oil; cover your dish, and set it 
on the fire. When done, serve with a 
little lemon-juice. 
~ TRUFFLE Omelet.*— Fry your omelet 
as usual, and when nearly done, with a 
spoon take out the thick part of the mid- 
dle, and put in its place some truffles, 
lightly fried in a little espagnole ; as soon 
as the omelet is finished, lay iton a dish; 
mince two truffles very small, give them 
a few turns over the fire in a little but- 
ter, add four ladlesful of espagnole, and 
pour this sauce over the omelet. 
~ Trurrtes a la Piedmontaise.*—Mince 
your truffles as small as possible, pour 
some oil on a silver dish, on which put a 
layer of the truffles, seasoned with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of grated Par- 
mesan cheese, and so on alternately, until 
you have as much in your dish as you 
think proper, and set it in the oven fora 
quarter of an hour, which will be suffi- 
cient to cook them. 
TRUFFLES @ /a Provencale.*—Cut some 
truffles into slices, put them into a sauce- 
an with oil, parsley, two cloves of gar- 
ic, salt and pepper. Set them on hot 
ashes for an hour. In the mean time 
dissolve a good bit of butter, rolled in 
flour, in some good stock ; then add half 
a glass of white wine, and let it bvil for 
half an hour, take off all the fat; and 
when the truffles are done, and drained, 
serve with the sauce poured oyer them. 
Trurries (Ragodt of). — Peel, and 
slice a dozen cruffies, put them into a 
saucepan, with a little butter, parsley, 
scallions, half'a clove of garlic, and two 
cloves; let them simmer a minute or |. 


(412) 


TRU 


two, add a spoonful of flour, a glass of 
-white wine, and another of stock ; let it 
| stew half an hour 3 clear off the fat, and 


serve it seasoned with’salt and pepper. 
TRUFFLES ( Ragodt of).*—Choose your 


a little butter, with grated nutmeg, pars- 


ley, scallions, half a clove of garlic, and 


two cloves; boil them with some con- 


sommé and espagnole ; take off the fat, 
reduce and finish the ragofit with a glass 


of Champagne and a little butter. 
TRUFFLE Sauce.*—Mince two or three 
truffles very smal], and toss them up 
lightly, in either oil or butter, according 
to your taste; then put to them four or 
five ladlesful of velowté, and a spoonful of 
consommé ; let it boil for about a quarter 
of an hour over.a gentle fire, skim off all 


the fat; keep your sauce hot in the dazn- 


marie. 

TruFrite Sauce.—Take eight truffles, 
clean, and cut them round, and then cut 
them in thin slices into a stewpan, set 
them to stew very gently with a small bit 
of butter; when well stewed, add two 
table-spoonsful of consommé, and let it 
simmer till nearly dry ; then put in some 


béchameile sauce, the quantity must be’ 


regulated according to what you want it 


for; make it very hot, squeeze in a little 


lemon-juice; it is then ready. If you 
wish the sauce to be brown, put in espag 
nole instead of béchamelle sauce. 
TRUFFLES en Surprise.*—Take a dozen 
large truffles, of as good a shape, and as 
near of a size, as possible; dress them in 
someChampagne wine, drain, and letthem 
cool; then place them on the flattest side, 
and with a roct-cutter of an inch diame- 
ter, mark out the centre to within a fourth 
of their thickness; cut the top of these 
out with the point of a knife, and clear 
away the remainder; fill up the space 


thus left with a purée of fowl or game, 


a salpicon, or any ragotit, or other purée, 
mixed with béchamelle, you may think 
proper; when all are filled, cover the 


aperture with the piece taken out, and. 


serve your truffles either in a croustade, 
or on a folded napkin. 

TrRuFFLES (Tourte of ).*— Take two 
pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick 
them; put them into a stewpan, with 
six thin slices of ham, a very little car- 
rot, a sliced onion, a bay-leaf, sweet 
herbs in powder, salt, and Champagne; 
lay rashers of bacon aver the whole, and 
stew them to nearlya jelly. When cold, 
put the truffles into a crust with all the 
hag bake the ¢ourte, and serve as 
usual, 





a re ee ee 


ve eS ee 








TUR 


_ Trorries, Tourte of. — Boil a dozen 
peeled trutflesin a pint of cream, with 
a quarter of a pouns of sugar; when 
the cream is reduced to half, take out 
the truffles, pound them to a paste, 
which stir into the cream; line a dish with 
almond paste, pour in the above, cover 
the tourte, bake, and ice it. 

TRUSSING (Directions for). — See 
the different articles. 

TUNNY. — This salt-water fish is 
but little known in England. When 
fresh, it is stewed with butter, parsley 
and scallions, shred; itis then breaded 
and browned witha salamander. 

_It may also be boiled like fresh salmon. 
The tunny, however, is most commonly 
pickled, and served cold ina salad, 

RBOT. — Turbot, when good, 
should be thick and full, and the belly of 
a yellowish white or cream colour. 

urBot Baked.*—Wash your fish in 
several waters, dry it well, and soak itin 
melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; in half an hour 
ut the whole intoa baking dish, envelop 
itcompletely in breadcrumbs, and bake it. 
Tursot, Breaded.*—Prepare a small 
turbot as usual, slit it across the back, 
and soak it for an hour in melted butter, 
or lemon-juice, with garsley» sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with 
bread-crumbs, and broil it; when done, 
squeeze lemon, or seville orange-juice 
Over it, and serve. 
_.Tursot,. Croguettes of*— Are made 
like those of cod. 
Tursot, aw Court-Bouilion.*—Fill a 
large saucepan with water, and put into 
ita pound of salt, twenty bay-leaves, a 
handful of thyme, the same of parsley, 
twenty scallions, and half the number of 
large onions sliced ; set it on the fire; 
let it boil a quarter of an hour, and then 
strain it. As soon as it is quite clear, 
rub the white side of a large turbot, 
either with lemon-juice or milk, put 
it into a fish-kettle, and pour the court- 
bouillon over it; set it on the fire to sim- 
mer for an hour, or more, according to 
its size. When done, take. it out care- 
fully, let it drain, and serve it on a folded 
napkin; garnish with parsley. 
cai, a la Créme.* — Put into a 
saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a dessert spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, 
and a glass of good milk, or more if neces- 
sary ; set it on the fire, and keep stirring 
till sufficiently smooth, and the right 
consistence; take a ready-dressed tur- 
bot, cut it into pieces, and put them into 
another saucepan, pour the sauce over 
them, make the whole quite hot, and 
_then serve. 
Tursot, Fillets of.*—Cut the fillets 


( 473 ) 


TUR 


from a turbot, dressed ina cowrt-bouilion. 
Dissolve some butter with an anchevy, 
shred parsley, and sweet herbs, salt, 
nutmeg, and pepper; add a glass ef 
cream, put in the fillets, stir them gently 
over the fire ull the sauce is thick and 
smooth 5 then serve. Hat 

Tursot, Glacé.*—Take off the skin, 
tail, and fins of a turbot, and lard it 
with bacon ; put it into a stewpan, with 
a pint or more of wine, two slices of 
lemon, five or six onions, sliced, pepper, 
and salt; set it on a moderate fire, and 
when about two-thirds done, take it off, 
and leave the fish to cool. In the mean- 
time, boil a knuckle of veal in some stock, 
with half a glass of white wine; reduce 
it toa jelly; letit takea fine clear colour, 
and whilst hot, pour it on a dish over the 
turbot, spread it equally over the whole, 
and serve. 

Tursot, au Gratin.* — Take some 
pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove 
the skin and bones, and put the pieces 
into a saucepan, with some béchamelle 
maigre, set it on the fire, make it quite 
hot, without letting it boil ; spread it all 
over a dish, make it quite smooth with 
the blade of a knife, cover it with bread- 
crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; 
pour some melted butter on it, garnish 
your dish with fried bread, put it in the 
oven to colour, and serve. 

Tursot, Grélled.*—Split the fish down 
the back, and soak it for some time, with 
melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, 
and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, 
and serve it with lemon, or Seville orange 
juice. 

Tursot, @ la Hollandaise.—Put your 
turbot into a fish-kettle, with equal 
quantities of milk and water, a bit of 
butter, salt, lemon squeezed in, and 
rubbed over the turbot, put paper over 
it, and let it simmer gently till done ; 
then take it up, drain it from the liquor, 
and serve it on a dish without a fish- 
plate, and pour a sauce a la Hollandaise, 
all over. 

Tuasor, with Macaroni in a Gratin. 
— Take the remains of a turbot which has 
been dressed the preceding day, and 
pick it from the bone, put it into hot 
water, to make it separate into flakes, 
and then put it into some very good 
cream sauce, with a little pipe macaroni, 
well boiled; be particular that there is 
no water either in the flakes of turbot, 
or the macaroni, as it would spoil the 
sauce ; when made very hot in the sauce, 
put it on a dish, strew bread-crumbs 
over it, sprinkle some clarified butter 
over with a spoon, then strew bread- 
crumbs again; brown it with the sala= 
mander, and serve. 


“TUR 


- Tunsot, en Mutelote Normande.* — 
Take a small turbot, and having pre- 
pared it as usual, slit it down the back, 
separate the flesh from the bones, be- 
tween which, put a good mattre d@’Adtel ; 
take a silver or other dish that will bear 
the fire, put into it six large onions, cut 
into dice, season them with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, thyme, bay-leaf, and parsley, all 
dry and rubbed into powder; then lay 
the turbot on it, strew salt over, put 
lemon-juice, melted butter, and add half 
a bottle of white wine; place your dish 
on a moderately heated stove, covered 
witha portable oven; baste it frequently. 
Cut some bread into pieces, the size of a 
crown piece, and when the turbot is 
done, place them round the dish, and 
serve. 

Tursot, Mayonnaise of.*—The pieces 
are soaked in a mayonnaise, and served 
as usual. (See Turkey a la mayonnaise.) 

Tursor, @ la Ste. Ménéhould.*—Take 
the remains of a ready-dressed turbot, 
cut it into pieces, lay them on a dish, 
with béchamelle, make the top quite 
smooth, and cover it with grated bread 
and Parmesan cheese; moisten it with 
some melted butter; make it hot in the 
pie and colour the top with a salaman- 

er. 

Tursor, with Parmesan.—Soak a cou- 
ple of small turbot in melted butter, 
with shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and 
salt ; when they have lain about an hour, 
pour the butter, &c. on a dish, witha 
little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan 
cheese, in equal. quantities; place the 
fish on it, cover them in the same man- 
ner, and bake. When done, clean the 
dish, and serve dry. 

Tursot, Stuffed and Baked.*— Your 
turbot being properly cleansed, turn 
over the skin of the under side, without 
cutting it off; make a farce, with some 
butter, parsley, scallions, morels, sweet 
herbs, all shred, and united together, 
with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt; spread this all over 
the under part of the fish, cover it with 
the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some 
butter in a saucepan; add to it when 
melted, the yolk of an egy, sweet herbs 
shred, salt, and pepper; rub the fish all 
over with this, then bread, and bake it. 

Tursot, with White Sauce.— Put a 
sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and 
sweet herbs into astewpan, place a small 
turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, 
pepper, and a leek, cut in pieces over it ; 
cover the fish with equal quantities of 
vinegar, and white wine; let it boil over 
a moderate fire until sufficiently done; 
in the meantime, melt a pound of butter, 


* 


(ATL) 


TUR. 
add to it a couple of boned anchovies, 


two spoonsful of capers, shred small, two 
or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, @ 


little vinegar, water, anda sprinkling of - 


flour; make all these quite hot, stirring 
constantly till done; then dish the tur- 
bot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. 
TUREEN @ la Flamande.—Take four 
sheep’s-tails, half a pound of pickled 
pork, six turkey pinions, and a large 
savoy, cut in quarters, tie all these up 
separately ; scald the two latter, and 
then put all into a large saucepan, with 
parsley, sweet herbs, scallions, cloves, 
pepper, and salt ; put in sufficient stock 
to cover it: close the saucepan, and let 
it boil till all the articles are done; then 
drain the meat, put it into a tureen, and 
pour the sauce over. 
Tureen Mélangée.* — Braise three 
pigeons, three sheep’s-tails, a dozen 
larks, some slices of streaked bacon, 
fillets of poultry, a little veal, and some 
small sausages pricked in several places ; 
do them in a sufficient quantity of stock, 
and let them simmer for four or five 
hours. Take off all the fat; pour the 
whole into a large tureen, and serve. 
Tureen @ la Neuvaine.—Take any 
kind of meat, game, or poultry, accord- 
ing to your pleasure, mince it small, and 
mix it with ehopped onions, shred suet, 
salt, spices, and half a glass of brandy ; 
put this mixture into a'deep dish that 
will bear, the fire; cover it close, and 
fasten it down with a paste; set it ona 
moderate fire to stew slowly. In about 
five hours’ time, remove the paste, clear 
away the fat, and serve it either hot or cold. 
TurREEN Proveneale. * — Put into a 
glazed pan half a pound of rice, on which 
lay two or three rashers of bacon, a large 
fowl, and two pigeons; cover these with 
lentils, and pour in two quarts of warm 
water; put your pan into a moderate 
oven for three hours; at the end of that 
time, pour the whole into a soup tureen, 
and serve very hot. 
TurEEN Royale.*—Take some fillets 
of kid, and lamb, a fat pheasant, two 
artridges, a leveret, and two pigeons $ 
ard all these with streaked bacon, an 
place them in a large braising-pan on 
slices of bacon, and veal, with salt, and 
Spices; pour over them a pint of good 
stock ; close the pan, lute the edges with 
aste, and set it on ‘a moderate fire for six 
ours. In the mean time, take some 
veal sweetbreads, truffles boiled in white 
wine, morels, and any other article you 
please; put them into some good stock, 
and let them simmer some time. When 
your braise is quite done, pour it into 
a tureen, placing the largest pieces at 








TUR 
the bottom ; place the sweetbreads, &c. 
over all the rest, and serve. 

TURKIES.— A _ young turkey-cock 
has smooth black legs, with a short spur, 
the eyes full and bright, and the feet 
soft and pliable. An old hen turkey’s 
legs are rough and red, the vent hard ; 
if with egg, the vent will be soft and 
open; the hen turkey is the best for 
boiling. Turkies are trussed according 
to the same manner as directed for fowls, 
and put some good stuffing(thesameas for 
fillet of vea!), in the part from which the 
crop was taken,whether roasted or boiled. 

‘URKEY, Afelets of.*—Take the breast 
of a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin 
slices about an inch square, cut some 
truffles, and boiled streaked bacon in the 
same manner, split some large champig- 
nons also, and put them with the above 
into an atelet sauce; when they have 
thoroughly imbibed it, put them alter- 
nately on half a dozen silver skewers, 
dip them in beaten eggs, cover them 
with bread-crumbs, egg, and bread them 
a second time, and then fry them. 

Turkey, Botled.—Make a stuffing of 
bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
lemon-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, 
a bit of butter, some suet, and an egy; 
put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, 
and boil the turkey ina floured cloth to 
make it very white. Have ready some 
oyster sauce made rich with butter, a 
little cream, and aspoonful of soy, and 
serve over the turkey, or you may serve 
over ita liver and lemon-sauce. 

Turkey, Boiled au Bourgeois.—Truss 
the turkey the same as for boiling; put 
-some water into a saucepan, setit on the 
fire, put in some salt, a large handful of 
chopped parsley,and some peppercorns } 
as soon as the water boils, put in the 
turkey, and let it boil very gently till 
sufficiently done, but not too muchso 3 in 
the meanwhile set on a saucepan with a 
bit of butter rolled in flour, a little water, 
some parsley, cut very small, a thin slice 
of garlic, two anchovies, a little lemon- 
peel, cut into dice, a little lemon-juice, 
and some salt; let these all stew together, 
then thicken it, and serve it over the 
turkey. 

TurxKeEY, Blanguette of.* —Cut_ the 
white meat froma cold roasted turkey, 
mince it small, and put it into a stewpan; 
cut as many champignons as you think 
proper, in pieces the size of a farthing, 
a them into water and lemon-juice to 

eep them white; put a little butter into 
a stewpan with the juice of halfalemon, 
add the champignons, set them on the 
fire, and when the butter is melted, add 
six ladlesful of consommé, and the same 
of velouté ; reduce this to half, skim 


( 475 ) 


TUR 

and take off all the fat, then pour the 
sauce on the mince, set it on the fire to 
make it quite hot without boiling, put in 
a liaison of an egg or two, and an ounce 
of butter, and serve it. 

Turkey, Capilotade, Croquettes, and 
Quenelies —Are made in the same man- 
ner as those of fowls. 

Turkey, Cold (how to serve).— Lay 
‘your turkey in a dish, have some nice 
savory jelly, which cut into pieces and 
garnish the dish all round with it. 

Turkey en Daube.* —Take an old 
turkey, truss it in the usual way; roll 
some large /ardons in a mixture of salt, 
pepper, four spices, and sweet herbs, 
and then lard the turkey with them; lay 
slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put the 
turkey on them, with two small knuckles 
of veal, the feet of the bird, four carrots, 
six Onions, three cloves, two bay-leaves, 
thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young 
onions; cover the whole with bacon and 
a piece of buttered paper ; dilute it with 
four ladlesful of stock (or more if the 
turkey be very large), put in a little salt, 
and set the pan on the fire to boil slowly 
for three hours and a half; then take it 
off, but do not take the bird out for at 
least half an hour. Strain off the liquor, 
and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if 
very thin; break an egg intuv another 
saucepan, beat it up well, and then pour 
the liquor on it, whisk them well toge- 
ther, and if it wants flavour, add a few 
sweet herbs, parsley-leaves, and a young 
onion or two; put it on the fire, stirring 
it violently until ready to boil; as soon 
as it has boiled up once or twice} set it 
by the side of a stove, put fire on the top 
of the saucepan, and let it simmer half 
an hour; then strain it carefully through 
a fine cloth, and let it cool to serve it 
with the turkey. 

Turkey, Fourré.*—Take a fine plump 
turkey, bone it carefully through the 
back without injuring the skin. Take 
two slices of very white tender veal, lard 
these slices quite through with large 
lardons, and put them within the turkey; 
lard also the inside of the bird, but do 
not pierce the skin ; close the opening, 
and give the bird an oval form, the pinion 
bones, and drumsticksought to be left on; 
tie up the turkey, spit and roast it gently, 
basting with its own gravy. 

Turkey, Galantine of.*—Take a fine 
fat turkey, bone it entirely, beginning 
with the then; and taking great care not 
to injure the breast, remove all the si- 
news from the legs; cut away the meat 
from the thickest parts, so as to make it 
all nearly the same level; take some of 
this meat, cold chicken, or meat of any 
kind you please ; if you have two pounds 
- 


TUR 

of lean, take two pounds of fat bacon, 
mince them small, and add salt, pepper, 
spices, and sweet herbs ; lard your turkey 
with moderate-sized dardons well season- 
ed. Spread all over the bird alayer of the 
farce an inch thick, on which place truf- 
fles, tongue @ l’écarlate, bacon, turkey, 
fow!, and fat livers, all cut into pieces 
about half an inch. thick, and an inch 
anda half long; cover these with ano- 
ther layer of farce, and continue this 
operation alternately till all the farce is 
used; then roll up the turkey, nearly in 
its proper form, but so that none of the 
farce may escape; sew it up, cover it 
with slices of bacon, wrap it in a coarse 
cloth with four or five bay-leaves, tie it 
closely; place it in a braising-pan on 
slices of bacon ; add two knuckles of veal, 
six carrots, six onions, a large bunch of 
parsley and scallions, the hones of the 
turkey, four bay-leaves, a little thyme, 
three cloves, and three ladlesful or more 
of stock ; cover your braising-pan close, 
and set iton the fire, and let it simmer 
for three hours. When done, take it 
from the fire, but leave the turkey in for 
half an hour ; on taking it from the pan, 
press it gently to get out all the gravy; 
when quite cold, unwrap the bird 5 strain 
the gravy through a lawn sieve, beat up 
an egg init, set it. on the fire, stirring 
till it boils, then put it by the side of the 
stove, with fire on the saucepan-lid; in 
about half an hour, strain it again, and 
leave it to cool. 
Turkey Giblets a lu Bourgeotse.—The 
pinions, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard, 
compose the giblets; when scalded, put 
them into a stewpan, with a little butter, 
parsley, scallions, garlic, thyme, bay- 
leaf, basil, mushrooms, and a clove or 
two; moisten these with stock ; season 
with pepper and salt ; make it all quite 
hot, thicken with a little flour; when 
nearly done, add a few turnips slightly 
fried in a littie butter. 

Turkey Giblets (Fricassee of ).—Scald 
thoroughly the giblets from as many 
turkies as will make a handsome dish, 
then stew them well in two ounces of 
butter, as directed for them a@ la bour- 
geoise. When done, take out the herbs, 
make a Uatson with the yolks of three 
eggs, a little cream, and some vinegar, 
‘and serve. 

TURKEY 77 tts own Gravy.—Take out 
the breast-bone of a turkey, and stuff it 
with a sweetbread scalded, mushroom cut 
into small pieces, grated bacon, pepper 
and salt; put the turkey, covered with 


slices of bacon, into a braising-pan just. 


large enough to hold it, with a very little 
stock, a quarter of pint of white wine, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, thyme, bay-leaf, 


* 


( 476 ) 


TUR 


a few cloves, and a little nutmeg; let it 
braise slowly, and turn it two or three 
times : when done, skim the sauce, strain 
it, adda chopped shalot, reduce the sauce, 
and serve it poured over the turkey. .. 
Turkey Hashed.— Cut up the remains 
of a roasted turkey, put it into a stewpan, 
with a glass of white wine, chopped pars- 
lay shalots, mushrooms, truffles, salt and 
pepper, two spoonsful of cullis, and a 
ittle stock ; boil half an hour, and re- 
duce to a thick sauce; when ready, add 
a pound of anchovy, and a squeeze of 
lemon; skim off all the fat from. the 
sauce, and serve all together. ibe & 
Tursey Hashed.—Stir a piece of but- 
ter rolled in flour into some cream, and a 
little veal gravy, till it boils up; mince 
some cold roasted or boiled turkey, but 
not too small; put it into the sauce, add 
grated lemon-peel, white pepper, pound- 
ed mace, a little mushroom ketchup or 
mushroom powder; simmer it up, and 
serve. Oysters may be added. wi5 
Turkey Patties.—Mince some of the 
white part, mix it with grated lemon, 
nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, 
cream, anda small bit of butter warmed, 
and fill the patties. 
Turkey with Oysters.—Truss a good 
white turkey for boiling, with the feet 
turned up like a fowl; tie some slices of 
fat bacon over the breast, boil it gently 
in braise or in stock-pot, take,it up a few 
minutes before wanted, in order to drain 
the water from it; take out the skewers 
and packthread which trussed it; set it 
on a large dish, and pour over it plenty 
of good oyster sauce. Some. stuffing 
should be put into the crop as directed 
for Turkey Roasted. - eer 
Turkey Pie (Raised) with Tongue. —~ 
Bone a turkey, then takea boiled pickled 
tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the 
middle of the turkey, with a light, well 
seasoned forcemeat, and some slices of 
sweetbread ; sew it up, and put it into 
boiling water for ten. minutes... Make a 
raised crust, lay some forcemeat at the 
bottom, then put in the turkey (the tu- 
key must be cold), with rashers of fat ba- 
con tied over it, then put on the lid, orna- 
ment it, and set it in the oven to bake. 
When done, take off the lid, take out the 
bacon, glaze the breast lightly, add a 
cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. | 
Turkey Pulled.—Divide the meat of 
the breast by pulling instead of cutting ; 
then warm it in a little white gravy, a 
little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a 
little flour and butter. The leg should 
be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and 
serve in the middle of the dish, with the 
above all round. ; 
Turkey en Ragodt.— Have a ragoit 








TUR 


in béchamelle sauce, of mushrooms, truf- 
fles, cocks-combs, fat livers, and artichoke 
bottoms; lay the turkey when boiled ina 
dish, and serve the ragoiit over it. 

Turkey Roasted.—lt may be either 
stuffed with sausage meat, or stuffing the 
same as for fillet of veal. As this makes 
a large addition to the size of the bird, 
take care that the heat of the fire is con- 
stantly to that part, as it frequently hap- 
pens that the breast is not sufficiently 
done. A strip of paper should be put 
an the bone to prevent its scorching, 
while the other parts are roasting. Baste 
well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy 
in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a 
beaten eyg should be added to the stuf- 
fing of sausage meat. 

Turney @ la Royale-—Make a mince 
with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truf- 
fles, put it into a Spanish or brown sauce ; 
the turkey being roasted, dish it, add a 
dittle lemoa-juice to the mince, which 
pour into the dish, and serve. 

~ Turkey to Souse.—Bone a good sized 
turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon ; put 
into a large saucepan two quarts of vine- 
gar, a quartof water, and some salt, make 
it boil, and then put in the turkey, and 
let it boil till tender; then take the 
saucepan from the fire } as soon as it is 
cold, put the whole into a pan, and let it 
stand three weeks. Serve it with elder- 
vinegar, and garnish with fennel. 

-Turxey to Stew. — Take a saucepan 
sufficiently large to hold the turkey con- 
veniently, lay four skewers across at the 
bottom of the saucepan, and put in the 
turkey upon these; pour in a quart of 
good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery, 
cut into small pieces, and some beaten 
mace ; let these stew as slowly as possible, 
till the gravy is more than half con- 
sumed ; then put ina large piece of butter 
rolled in flour ; when it is melted, put in 
a glass of Madeira or other white wine ; 
and if there is not a sufficient quantity of 
sauce, add a little strong veal gravy, 
thickened with butter; when it is tender 
take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce 
over; to which may be added, if you 
think proper, pickled mushrooms, or 
oysters. : 

Turney, Stuffed with Onions, and 
Pickled Pork.—Scald two dozen of small 
white onions, and boil them in stock, 
with half a pound of pickled pork cut in 
thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green 
shalots, thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, 
whole pepper, and salt; when done, drain 
them all, then stuff the turkey with 
them, and wrap the turkey in slices of 
bacon, over which put paper, and roast it ; 
make a sauce with a bit of butter, a slice 


(477 ) 


oven, 


TUR” 


of ham, two shalots, and a few mush# 
rooms ; soak these fora time, then add 
two spoonsful of stock, the same quantity 
of cullis, let it simmer for about half an 
hour, skim and strain it; when ready, 
add a small spoonful of mustard, a little 
pepper and salt; serve this sauce with 
the turkey. 

Turkey stuffed with Sausages and 
Chesnuts.—Roast what quantity of ches- 
nuts you think necessary, peel them, and 
pound a part of them to make a furce, 
with the liver, chopped parsley, shalots,: 
a little salt and pepper, a bit of butter, 
and the yolks of three raw eggs, put this 
farce into the crop, and stuff the body 
with the whole chesnuts, and small 
sausages, first fried in butter till about 
half done; cover the turkey with slices 
of bacon, and put paper over that, 
pron roast it, and serve with a chesnut 
cultis. 

Turkey stuffed with Truffles.—Peel 
about a pound, or a pound and a half of 
truffles, mix with them a little salt, pep- 
per, and grated bacon, and stuff your 
turkey with it ; sew it up close, wrap it 
in two or three sheets of paper, and keep 
itin this state for three or four days, that 
it may take the flavour of the truffles, 
then roast it, well covered all round 
with slices of bacon, and paper over that 3 
serve with a Spanish sauce. 

Turkey en Surprise.* — Take a large 
turkey, prepare it for the spit, and roast 
it } when done, let it cool, raise the skin 
of the breast carefully, take off all the 
meat from under it, and make a hole, 
which fill with a salpicon 3 cover this 
with a guenelle farce ; give a good shape 
to the breast; strew grated bread and 
Parmesan cheese over the whole, and 
place it in the oven a short time to heat, 
and colour it, Serve witha reduced es- 
pagnole, as a remove. 

Turkey, (Legs of) Brotled.— Braise 
some undressed legs of turkeys until 
tender, then dip them in oil or melted 
butter, and broil them of a fine brown 
colour, serve with a rémoulade sauce. 

Turxey Legs en Papillotes.*—Fry the 
legs lightly in a little butter until both 
sides are coloured, then lard them quite 
through 5 make some farce with a slice of 
veal, breaat of fowl, streaked bacon, and 
truffles, all minced smal], and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and spices; cut as 
many large rashers of bacon as you have 
turkey legs, spread some of the farce over 
every rasher, roll a leg up in each, tie 
them that the farce may not escape; 
bread them thoroughly, and wrap them 
in pieces of white paper; put them into 
a deep dish, and bake themin a moderate 
When done, take off the. paper 


TUR 


and thread, and serve with any sauce 
you please. 

Turkey (Legs of) Provence Fushion. 
—Take the legs of a roasted turkey, put 
them into a stewpan with a glass of wine 
the same quantity of stock, pepper, an 
salt; a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, 
and a clove of garlic; simmer about an 
hour, to reduce thesauce; make a ragotit 
with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, 
parsley, shalots, and a bit of butter; soak 
this a little while, then add a little stock 
and cullis, and boil it some time ; when 
ready, add a pounded anchovy, chopped 
capers, and a handful of olives, stoned; 
warm together without boiling; you must 
add pepper and salt, according to taste: 
the sauce should be sharp and relishing. 
Serve it upon the legs. 

. Turkey (Legs of) en Surprise.—Bone 
a couple of undressed legs of turkies 
quite to the end, and fill the inside with 
a farce made of livers, sweetbreads, 
mushrooms, parsley, shalots, pepper, 
and salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated 
bacon, and a little nutmeg; sew them 
up, and braise them with slices of bacon 
and lemon. Serve with a Spanish sauce, 

Turkey, Wings in Chipolata.*-—Bone, 
and trim some turkey wings, and put 
them into a stewpan with a little butter ; 
set them on a fierce fire, and in a few 
minutes add a dessert spoonful of flour, 
two ladlesful of stock, a bay-leaf, and 
some whole pepper; blanch a little 
streaked bacon, cut it into small square 
pieces, put them to the ragoat, with some 
champignons, parsley and scallions; 
when about three parts done, skim it, and 
throw infour and twenty small onions (all 
the same size), peeled, some blanched 
chesnuts, and a few sausages. When the 
ragofit is sufficiently done, take out the 
parsley, scallions, and bay-leaf; place 
the wings ona dish, and pour the gravy, 
thickened with the yolks of two eggs, 
over it, and serve. 

Turkey (Wings and Legs of), Glazed. 
—Cut off the wings and legs of a turkey 
(if a large one the wings alone will be 
sufficient for a dish); cut them pretty 
large from the breast, lard them all over, 
or lard only one to please different pa- 
lates ; braze them on a slow fire, with 
slices of veal and ham, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, some cloves, whole pepper, salt, 
and stock; when dune, skim the sauce, 
reduce it to a glaze, and finish it likea 
Sricandeau. 

Turkey AWVings, Huricot of.*—Take 
the wings of some young turkies, trim 
and bone them; make a light sous, in 
which fry the wings lightly; put them 
into a stewpan with some rich broth, with 
parsley and green onions, skim it care- 


( 478). 


TUR 


9 

fully, and when about three parts done, 
put in some turnips, cut into round 
pieces,an inch and half long,and browned. 
when done, drain the wings, place them. 
on a dish en couronne, and the turnips in 
the centre. ‘ aoa. oie vioge 

Turkey Wings au Soleil.*—Toss up. 
as many turkey wings as you wish in 
some butter; then add to them eight 
ladlesful of velouté, a spoonful of stock, 
a bay-leaf, whole pepper, one clove, a 
bunch of parsley, and green onions; let. 
these boil, skiraming carefully. When 
about three parts done, take off all the 
fat; then reduce the sauce till very thick, 
take out the parsley, onions, bay-leaf, 
and clove ; put ina daison of three yolks 
of eggs, and an ounce of butter; put the 
wings on a dish, pour the sauce over 
them; as soon as they are quite cold, 
cover each wing well with the sauce}; 
roll them in bread-crumbs, then dip 
them in beaten eggs, cover them again 
with crumbs, and fry them nicely ; drain 
and serve with fried parsley. * 

Turkey Poults.— These should be 
drawn in the same manner as a turkey, 
except that the head should be left on, 
and turned under the pinions, with tke 
bill pointing outwards. NAS ‘ 

TuRKEY-POULT, en Mayonnaise.* — 
Take a cold roasted turkey-poult ; cut it 
up, take off all the skin, and put the pie- 
ces into a pan, with a little oil, tarragon 
vinegar, a little minced ravigotte, salt. 
and pepper. - When they are well soak- 
ed, lay the pieces on a dish, the inferior 
ones first ; pour amayonnaise over them}; 
garnish with hard eggs, fillets of ancho- 
vies, gherkins, capers, and a cordon of 
jelly round the edge. 

Turkey-poutt, Peau de Goret.*¥—. 
Prepare a fine turkey-poult in the usual 
way; rub it over, and baste it with oil, 
like a sucking pig, whilst roasting ; make 
it a nice colour, sprinkle salt over, and 
serve it with asauce d@ la Diable, 

TURNIPS, Botled.—Pare them thick ; 
when boiled, squeeze them well, to tho- . 
roughly drain them from the water ; 
mash them smooth, heat them with a lit- 
tle cream, add a piece of butter, a little 
flour, pepper, and salt. 

Turnips, Purée of.*—Take a dozen 
large turnips, slice. and put them‘intoa 
saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; set them ona fierce fire, stirring 
frequently with a wooden spoon ; when 
of a nice clear colour, add a ladleful of 
velouté, and another of veal blond; re- 
duce it to the proper consistence ; skim 
it well, andjrub it through a bolting 
cloth. 

Turnip Sauce. — Pare four turnips, 
and let them simmer gently in a little 








TUR 


water until done, and the liquor reduced, 
then rub them through a sieve. Add to 
them alittle béchamelle, then cut some 
more turnips in shapes, as for haricot; 
simmer them also the same as the first, 
and then add them to the others. 

Turnip Soup.—Be careful in choosing 

our turnips, that they are not in the 
‘least spongy ; take twelve, and cut them 
‘about an inch square; then cut them 
‘into the form of a barrel, and put them 
as you dothem into a basin of water ; 
while they are preparing, seta quarter of 
a pound of butter on the fire ina shallow 
stewpan, to clarify; when the turnips 
‘are ready, and drained from the water, 
put them in the butter, and fry them till 
they become of a fine brown colour; then 
-put them on a sieve to drain ; after this 
put them into a soup-pot, with a little 
sugar and salt, and fill it up with con- 
sommé; set it by the stove to boil gently, 
skim it well, and clarify it the same as 
other soups. It will be a great addition 
to putin at.first with the turnips, a few 
heads of celery, cut round and blanched. 
Bread must be put in this, as well as 
other clear soups made with vegetables. 

Turnips in Various /Vays.—Cut them 
in pieces, parboiled in salt and water ; 
‘then stewed in butter, with parsley, scal- 
lions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; thicken 
the sauce, and serve it over them. Par- 
boil, drain, and serve with a sauce 
tournée and mustard-sauce mixed. | 

Turnie-rors.*—This vegetable is in 
season during the early partof the spring; 
they should.be very young, and all the 
stalks, and withered leaves taken off. 
‘Turnip-tops require a great deal of water 
to boil them; put in some salt, and 
serve them like spinach. 

Turnip-rops, Pickled.—Choose them 
young, pick off all the stalks and wither- 
ed leaves, put them into boiling water, 
set them on the fire, and when tender, 
“press out all the water, and leave them to 
cool; then put them into a jar, with 
some salt, and cover them with the best 
vinegar. — : 

~ TURTLE Fins. — The fins being 
stewed with the turtle as in the receipt 
for turtle soup, make a dish of them 
alone, by putting them into a stewpan 
with some good strong espagnole, and 
some madeira or port wine, in which let 
them boil gently till the rawness is off 
the wine; then squeeze in some lemon- 
juice, lay them on a dish with a piste 
border round the edge; garnish them 
with forcemeat, eitherin balls or lengths, 
and pour the sauce over the whole. 
They may be served with an IJtalienne, 
tarragon, or any other sauce; the inside 
flesh of the turtle, which has the appear- 


- 


( 479°) 


TUR 


ance of chicken, may be larded and 
treated as a fricandeau of veal. i 
Tourtte Soup.— The day before yo 

dress a turtle, chop the herbs, and make 
the forcemeat ; then, on the preceding 
evening, suspend the turtle by the two 
hind fins withy a cord; and put one 
round the neck, with a heavy weight 
attached to it to draw out the neck, that 
the head may be cut off with mare ease ; 
let the turtle hang all night, in which 
time the blood will be well drained from 
the body. Then, early in the morning, 
having your stoves, and plenty of hot 
water in readiness, take the turtle, lay 
iton the table on its back, and witha 
strong pointed knife cut all round the 
under shell, (which is thecallipee); there 
are joints at each end, which must be 
carefully found, gently separating it 
from the callipash (which is the upper 
shell) ; be careful that in cutting out the 
gut you do not break the gall. When 
the callipee and the callipash are per- 
fectly separated, take out that part of the 
gut that leads frorn the throat; that, with 
the three hearts, putinto a basin of water 
by themselves; the other interior part 
putaway. Take the callipee, and cut 
off the meat which adheres to it in four 
quarters, layingiton aclean dish. Take 
twenty pounds of veal, chop it up, and 
set it in a large pot, as directed for 
espagnole, putting in the flesh of the 
turtle at the same time, with all kinds 
of turtle herbs, carrots, onions, one pound 
and a half of lean ham, pepper corns, 
salt, a little spice, and two bay-leaves, 
leaving it to stew till it takes the colour 
of espagnole ; put the fins (the skin being 
scalded off) and hearts in, half an hour 
before you fill it, with half water, and half 
beef stock; then carefully skim it ; put 
ina bunch of parsley, and let it boil 
gently, like consommé. While the turtle 
is stewing, carefully scald the head, the 
callipee, and all thatis soft of the calii- 
pash, attentively observing to take off 
the smallest particle of skin that may 
remain; put them with the gut into a 
large pot of water to boil till tender ; 
when so, take them out, and cut themin 
squares, putting them ina basin by 
themselves till wanted for the soup. The 
next thing is the thickening of the soup, 
which must be prepared in the same 
manner as sauce fowrnée. The turtle 
being well done, take out the fins and 
hearts, and lay them on a dish; the 
whole of the liquor must pass through a 
sieve into a large pan; then, with a 
ladle, take off all the fat, put tt into a 
basin, then mix in the turtle liquor (a 
small quantity at a time) with the thick- 
ening made the same as sauce tournée 


TUR c¢ 


but it does not require to,neither mustit | 


be, one twentieth part so thick ; set it 
over a brisk fire, and continue stirring till 
it boils; when it has boiled two hours, 
being skimmed all the while, squeeze it 
threugh the tammy into another large 
gtewpan, put it on the fire, and stir it as 
before, till it boils; when it has boiled 
gently for one hour, put in the callipee 
and callipash, with the gut, hearts, and 
some of the best of the meat and head, 
all cut in squares, with the forcemeat 
balls and herbs, which you should have 
ready chopped and stewed in éspagnole; 
(the herbs are parsley, lemon-thyme, 
marjorum, basil, savory, and a few chop- 
ped mushrooms). It must be carefully 
attended to and skimmed, andone hour 
and a half before dinner, put in a bottle 
of Madeira wine, and nearly half a bottle 
of brandy, keeping it continually boiling 
gently, and skimming it; then take a 
basin, put a little cayenne pepper into It, 
with the juice of six lemons squeezed 
through a sieve. When the dinner is 
wanted, skim the turtle, stir it well up, 
and put in a little salt, if necessary ; 
then stir in the cayenne and lemon-juice, 


and ladle it into the tureen. This receipt |. 


will answer fora turtle between fifty and 
sixty pounds. q 

This method of dressing turtle, is ac- 
cording to the directions of Mr. Rey- 
nolds. 

Turtite (Mock) Soup.* — Take six 
pounds of beef-steaks, two pounds of veal 
cuttings, and some fowl trimmings; put 
them into a large saucepan, with equal 
quantities of consommé and veal blond, 
two carrots, and an onion stuck with two 
cloves. Set it on the fire, and when it 
is reduced to consommé, strain it through 
acloth. Put into another saucepan half 
a calf’s head, well washed, and scalded, 
and cut into pieces about the size of a 
half-crown, add the consommé, and a 
bottle of Madeira wine, tie a few allspice 
and a little mace ina cloth, and put in; 
setit on the fire, in about three hours 
time add thirty whole champignons, two 
throat sweetbreads, cut in pieces like the 
head, fifteen cocks’-combs, thirty kidnies 
and thirty fowl quenelles.. When the 
whole is sufficiently done, skim off all 
the fat from the soup, which should be 
clear and of a deep colour. Put two 
poached eggs. into a soup tureen, on 
which pour the soup and serve. 

Turtte Soup (Mock).*— ‘Take four 
calf’s-feet, break the bones, and stew 
them in as much water as will cover 
them; take them out when all the meat 
and gristle will part from the bones; 
then put the meat into the liquor again, 
with half a pint of beef gravy, half a pint 


0 ) VAN 


of white, or port wine, an onion stuck with 
cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, a 
little mace, Jamaica pepper, and Cayenne 
ditto; tie these all up in a muslin bag} 
when boiled enough, add the yolks of 
eight eggs boiled hard, truffles, morels, 
and force-meat balls. The juice of 
lemons or oranges improve it. | > 
Turtie Soup (Mock).—Take a white 
calf’s head, with the hair well scalded 
off; split it in two, and boil it in plenty 
of water till very tender: then take all 
the meat from the bones, with the white 
skin, and cut it in squares like the turtle 
meat. Make a thickening the same as 
for turtle, which mix with good strong 
espagnole ; boil it im the same manner, 
and put in the herbs, forcemeat, wine, &c. 
in short finish it the same asthe receipt 
for turtle. +P ay 


U. 


UDDER—(See Tongues). 
UMBLES—(See Deer). 


Vv. 


VANILLA Cream.*—Take twodrachms 
of vanilla, a quart of milk, the yolks of 
three eggs, five ounces of sugar, anda 
pint of cream; beat up the eggs well 
with the milk, and then add the other 
ingredients ; set the whole on a moderate 
fire, and stir it constantly with a wooden 
spoon, till the cream will adhere to it; 
then strain, and serve it cold... 4 

Vanitua Cream, Renversée.*—Take as 
much cream as will fill the mould you 
intend to use, and boi] it up a few times, 
with the proportionate quantities of va- 
nilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if 
the mould will contain a quart, mix 


twelve yolks and .three whole eggs with 


the cream, and run it five times through 
a bolting cloth. Butter the mould, pour 
the. cream into it, and place it in the 
bain marie, but not too hae when the 
cream is set, which you may know. by 
touching it gently with your finger, turn 
it on a dish; take the remainder: of 
the cream, stir it over the fire like white 
sauce, and as soon as it sticks to the 
spoon (which must be of wood), take it 
off, stir it aninstant, and then pour it 
over the other cream, and serve cold. 
VANILLA Cream WW kinped.* — Put a 
pinch of gumdragon intoa pint of cream, 
add a small quantity of orange-flower 
water, powder-sugir to the taste, and a 
little milk, in which some vanilla has 
been boiled, and the milk strained; 
whip these ingredients with a whisk, un- 


rein 
" 








VEA 


til the whole is sufficiently frothed ; then 
lay it carefully on a dish, ina pyramidal 
form, and serve it. 

Vanitta Cream Ice.* 
whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth ina 
preserving pan, pour on them the yolks 
of eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, 
whip the whole well with a whisk, and 
pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling 
cream; continue to whip it for some 
little time, and then put it on the fire, 
with half{an ounce of vanilla bruised ; 
still whipping; when it has boiled up 
three or four times, strain it, and freeze 

-asusual. (See Jee.) 

Vania, Créme of (Liqueur).*—Dis- 
solve over the fire two pounds ten ounces 
of broken sugar, in three pints of purified 
river water; when it has boiled up once, 
pour it into a jar, on three drachms of 
vanilla, cut in pieces, and half a grain of 
amber. When quite cold, add three 
pints of good brandy, cover the vessel, 
and when it has infused six days, co- 
lour it with a little prepared cochineal ; 
filter, and bottle the queur. Cork the 
battles tight, and seal the corks. 

Vanitia Sticks.*—Take some march- 
pane paste, a quarter of a pound of choco- 
late, and the sameof vanilla ; mix these 
well into the paste, and then formit into 
sticks, like the vanilla in its original 
form ; lay themona sheet of paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

VEAL.—The flesh of the bull calf is 
firmer, and generally more esteemed 
than that of the cow calf, but the flesh of 
the latter is the whitest, and the fillet is 
often preferred on account of the udder. 
When the head is fresh, the eyes will ap- 
pear full; if the shoulder vein is of a clear 
red, it is good; when there is any green 
or yellow spots, it is stale; the breast 
and neck, when good, should look white 
and clear; the loin is very apt to taint 
under the kidney, it will be soft and 
slimy when stale. Veal should never be 
kept long undressed, as it byno means 
a from keeping. i 

‘he French divide the leg into three 
parts, besides the middle bone; these 
are calied the Naotx, Sous-noix, and 
Contre-noix. The first is the largest, 
and. has the udder to it; the second is 
the flat white part under the noca, and 
the third is the side part. 

Vea, Blunquette of.*—Take a cold 
roasted shoulder of veal, raise the skin 
carefully, and cut all the whtte meat 
into slices; make a ragotétt with some 
champignons, cut in slices, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, a tit of butter, a pinch of 
flour, salt, and pepper; when this ragodt 
is reduced properly, put in the veal, add 
a liaison of yolks of eggs, and some cream; 


( 481 ) 


— Whisk the | 


VEA 


stir it in over the fire, taking care not to 


let it boil; squeeze in a little lemon- 
juice, and serve. — 

Veat Botled.—Veal should be well 
boiled, in a good deal of water; if boiled 
in a cloth, it will be whiter ; serve it with 
tongue, bacon, or pickled pork, greens 
of any sort, brocoli, and carrots, or onion 
sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, parsley 
and butter, or white celery sauce. 

Vea Broiled Venetian Fashion.—Cut 
some slices of veal, tolerably thick and 
large, and let them marinate for about 
an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, 
mushrooms, shalots, bay-leaf, thyme, 
basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of 
the marinade adhere to them as you pos- 
sibly can, and strew over them bread- 
crumbs; broil them slowly, baste them 
with what remains of the marinade, and 
serve with a squeeze of lemon, or a 
Seville orange over them. 

Vet Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal 
in a gallon of water, with two ounces of 
rice or vermicelli, a little salt, and a 
blade of mace. When thoroughly boiled 
and the liquor reduced to half, it is fit for 
use. 

Vest Cake.* — Take some nice thin 
slices of veal, and season them with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, grated; have ready 
some hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and put a 
layer of these at the bottom of a basin or 
pan, thena layer of veal, then some slices 
of ham, over this strew marjorum, thyme, 
parsley, shred fine, bread-crumbs and 
lemon-peel, chopped small: then a layer 
of eggs, veal, ham, &c. and so continue 
till the pan is filled; pour some good 
gravy over the whole, cover the pan with 
coarse brown paper, tie it closely over, 
and set it to bake in a slowoven 3 an hour 
will be sutlicient to bake it; when cold, 
turn it out upon a dish, and serve; gar- 
nish with parsley. * 

VeAt Cakes.*—Take three quarters of 
a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound 
of beef-suet, half the rind of alemon, a 
little mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a 
little shalot; mix these together, beat 
them well in a marble mortar, make 
them into small cakes, fry them, and 
send them up in a good gravy, either 
white or brown. 

Vea Cannellions.*—Cut your veal into 
very thin slices, all the same size, at 
least three inches square ; lay on each 
slice some godiveau, roll it up, so that it 
may not be more than an inch thick; 
fasten all the edges with white of egg, so 
that they may look like pieces of cane; 
stew them in a covered pan, with veal 
gravy and consommé; when done, drain 
them}; strain the sauce, take offall the 
fat, re i cool, to glaze the cannelions. 


VEA 


Veau (Cold).* — Cut some cold veal 
into thin slices, the size and thickness of 
a half crown, dip them into the yolk of 
an egg well beaten,cover them with bread- 
crumbs, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, shred 
fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little 
fresh butter into a pan, makeit quite hot, 
fry the veal in it, and when done, lay iton 
a dish by the side of the fire; make a 
little gravy ofa bone of veal, shake a 
little flour into the pan, stir it round, add 
the gravy and a little lemon-juice, pour 
it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. 

_ VEAL Collops.*—Cut some cold roast 
veal into dice, and give them a toss up 
over the fire in a little butter, with a 
pinch of flour; then add a little stock, 
shred parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg; keep it on the fire till the 
sauce adheres to the mince; then put 
the whole on a dish. Make a paste with 
alittle flour, butter, water, the yolk of 
an egg ; dissolve a little salt in the water 
you use; roll out this paste very thin, 
and lay the cold mince in little heaps on 
half of it ; turn the other half over it, cut 
it round these little heaps, pinch the 
edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry 
your collops. 

Veat al’ Esturgeon.*—Laréd your joint 
of veal with small Jardons, and putit into 
a saucepan with small onions, slices of 
bacon, carrots, artichoke bottoms, a pinch 
of coriander seeds, salt, pepper, and a 
bottle of white wine; cover the sauce- 
pan, and boil it slowly on a moderate 
fire till done. Serve it in itsown liquor, 
with the addition of a sauce pequante. 

Veat Florentine, — Take two. veal 
kidnies, and mince them with their fat, 
very small, and mix it with a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four or five eggs, boiled 
hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut 
fine, some bread-crumbs, candied lemon- 
peel, cut small,and season with nutmeg, 
cloves, salt, mace, a little mountain wine, 
and some orange-flower water}; line the 
hottom of a dish with a nice puff: paste, 
put in the above, cover it with puff 
paste, and set it to bake ina slow oven. 

VEAL, Fricandeau of.*—Choose a very 
plump piece of veal, and with small neat 
lardons, lard those parts which are not 
eovered with skin; butter the bottom of 
a stewpan, lay in the veal, the larded 
side uppermost, with four carrots, as 
many large onions, a bunch of parsley 
and scallions, two bay-leaves, a tittle 
thyme, two claves, salt, pepper, and two 
glasses of water; set the pan on the fire ; 
when the meat is pretty near done, let it 
hoil quickly to reduce the sauce, and 
when quite done, take out the carrots and 
onions, and let the sauce fall toa glaze, 
with which cover the meat, and place it 


( 48: 


VEA 


onadish. Take out nearly all the fat, — 
and put into thestewpan a dessert spoon- 
ful of flour, and a glass of water; stir it 
well, and then pour it over the veal, 
serve with sorrel, endive, spinach, or any» 
thing else you please. If the veal weighs 
between three or four pounds, it will re-. 
quire three hours boiling; if larger, a 
longer time will be necessary. — — “f 
Vea Fricandeau.*—Take the round, 
or part of the round of a fillet, fry it in 
butter, of a nice brown, with onions cut 
it slices, and a little garlic, then set it to 
stew in some very rich gravy or cullis: 
when tender, take it out, thicken: the, 
gravy with flour, add a little lemon-juice, 
and serve this sauce over the veal. > 
VeAu Fritters.*—Cut the remains of a. 
tender piece of veal into small, thin, 
round pieces; dip these into a good bat- 
ter, and fry them in the usual way, in oil. 
When done, drain, sprinkle salt over, 
and serve them. ; 
VEAL, Grenade of.*—Take a notx of 
veal, cut it into four pieces, all of the 
same size, and lard them ; take also a 
very fine fowl, season them moderately, 
and partly dress them’; butter the inte- 
rior of a plain deep mould, in the centre: 
of which, puta large ‘ball of farce, place 
the four pieces at the four corners, be- 
tween them a piece of the fowl (using 
only the white parts); fill up the inter- 
mediate spaces with cray-fish, and all the 
interstices with farce; pour in some jelly 
to fix the different articles together. Be 
careful to place the backs of the cray-fish 
and the larded parts of the veal against 
the sides of the mould, and put some 
truffles into the jelly before it is poured 
in. Set the mould ina cool place, and 
when the jelly is ‘congealed, dip it an 
instant into boiling water, and then turn 
it out. 
Veat Ham.—Take two ounces of salt- 
petre, one pound of bay, and one pound 
of common, salt, and one ounce of juniper 
berries, bruised; rub some of this well 
into a leg of veal, cut ham fashion ; lay. 
the shinny side downwards at first, but 
let it be well rubbed and turned every 
day for a fortnight; then hang it in 
wood smoke for a fortnight. It may be 
boiled, or parboiled, and then roasted. 
Vea, Haricot of. — Take a neck or 
breast of veal (if the-neck, cut the bones 
short), and half roast it ; then put it into 
a stewpan with justsufficient brown gravy: 
to cover it, and when nearly done, have 
ready a pint of peas boiled, six cucumbers 
pared and sliced, and two lettuces cut 
into quarters, and stewed in brown gravy,* 
with some forcemeat balls ready fried ; 
put all these to the veal, and let them 
just simmer; lay the veal ina dish, pour 


« 





Bae ee ae ee eee ee eee 





Onna an Sa “a lara wt 


; 





VEA 


the sauce and peas over it, and serve the 
lettuces, and forcemeat balls all round. 
Veat, Cold, Hashed.—Cut it in slices, 
flour it, put it into a saucepan with a 
little good gravy, some grated lemon- 
peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make 
“it hot, then add a little lemon-juice ; 
serve fried sippets round the dish. 
Vea, Minced.—Cut the veal into very 
small pieces, but do not chop it; take a 
little white gravy, a little cream or milk, 
a bit ef butter rolled in flour, and some 
. grated lemon-peel; let these boil till of 
the consistence of a fine thick cream ; 
shake flour over the veal, and sprinkle it 
with a little salt, and white pepper; put 
it into the saucepan to the other ingre- 
dients, and make it quite hot, but be 
careful that it does not boil after the veal 
has deen put in, or it willbe hard; before 
being taken up, squeeze in some juice of 
emon ; serve it on a dish over sippets. 
- Veat, Minced, with Poached Eggs.— 
Mince part of a roasted fillet of veal ex- 
tremely fine, put it into a stewpan, and 
on over it asufficient quantity of good 
ot béchamelle sauce to make it, of a 
tolerable thickness ; then have a stewpan 
full of water, with a little vinegar in it, 
and as soon as it boils, break in two eggs, 
and keep it boiling quick (but notso as to 
boil over); when they are done, take 
them out with a cullender spoon, and put 
them into another stewpan of clear warm 
water; break two more into the vinegar 
and water, and do the same as the two 
first, and soon till six are done; when 
you want to serve, squeeze a little lemon- 
juice in the mince, pour it on a hot 
dish; take the eggs out of the water 
neatly, trim them, and lay them on the 
veal, and serve. 
. Vest, Minced in a Timbale. — Make 
some mince, the same as mince veal, with 
poached eggs, and keep it hot by the fire, 
fry some geod plain pancakes, made with- 
out sugar or lemon-peel; then lay a 
pancake at the bottom, and-all round a 
well-buttered oval mould, then lay the 
rest open, and spread each with the 
mince; roll them up neatly, and lay 
them close in the mould; cover them up 
with a pancake ; about half an hour be- 
fore dinner is to be served, put it intoa 
moderate oven ; and when wanted, turn 
them out in a dish, and pour a little 
strong gravy in the dish under them. 
Vuat @ la Moélle.*—Take some very 
thin cutlets, beat them well with a rol- 
ling-pin ; pound a piece of crumb of 
bread, about the size of an egg, some 
bacon, beef-marrow, shred parsley, with 
pepper, and salt, in a mortar; spread a 
little of this farce over a slice of veal, 
and cover it with another}. fix the edges 


( 483 ) 


VEA 


together with beaten egg; when all are 
done, dip them in egg, bread, and broil 
them. 

VEAL Olives.—Take some slices from 
a fillet of veal, then cut them round of 
about the size of the palm of your hand, 
make a forcemeat with the remains of 
roasted chickens, suet, herbs, eggs, and 
spices; lay the slices alternately with a 
little of this forcemeat and fat liverssliced, 
truffles, or mushroonis ; continue these to 
a moderate height,' the last layer being 
veal; thenroll them in a caul, and tie or 
sewthem up; put them into a stewpan, 
with slices of ham, and veal, parsley, 
shalots, two cloves, one of garlic, pepper, 
and salt, a little stock, and one glass of 
white wine; let it stew slowly; when 
done, take off the caul, wipe off the fat, 
skim, and strain the sauce ; add a little 
cullis, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, 
and serve over the olives. 

Veat Olives. —Cut some thin slices 
from the fillet (if it is large, one slice wit} 
be sufficient for three olives); rub them 
over with yolk of eggs, strew on them 
some bread-crumbs, mixed with parsley 
chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg; on every piece lay a thin 
slice of bacon, it must not be too fat; 
roll them up tight, fasten them with small 
skewers, rub the outside with egg, roll 
them in the bread-crumbs, &c. and lay 
them in the Dutch oven, and let them 
brown, without burning; they will take 
along while doing; (some prefer frying 
them). Serve the following sauce over 
them :—thicken a pint of good gravy with 
some flour, add ketchup, cayenne, and 
pickled mushrooms, and boil this for a 
few minutes. Forcemeat balls may be 
added. 

Veat Olives a la Mode. — Take two 
pounds of veal, beat it very fine, as for 
forcemeat, and mix it with the yolks of 
two eggs, two anchovies, half a pound of 
marrow, a few mushrooms, either fresh 
or pickled, half a pint of oysters, some 
thyme, sweet marjorum, parsley, spinach, 
lemon-peel, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
mace, finely beaten; let the whole be 
thoroughly well mixed: take a veal caul, 
have a layer of bacon, and a layer of the 
ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and 
either roast or bake it; when done, cut 
it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve 
a good gravy over them. Big 

Vea Olive Pie.—Line your pie dish 
with a good crust, put in the olives (see 
receipt for veal olives), fill up the dish 
with stock, and put in the oven to bake ; 
when done, pour in some gravy,thickened 
with a little cream and flour boiled to- 
gether, and serve. _ 

ar Patties.—Mince some veal that 


VEA 


js underdone witha little parsley, lemon- 
peel, a little grated nutmeg, and a little 
salt ; add some cream, and just sufficient 
quantity of gravy to moisten the meat ; 
a little scraped ham is a great improve- 
ment: the above should not be warmed 
until the patties are baked. 

Veat Pie.—Take a neck, or nut, cut 
out of the fillet, cut it into collops, stir it 


over a quick fire with a bit of butter till | 


it becomes brown 3 then set it to stew 
‘with a little pepper, and in just sufficient 
water to cover it, until done enough ; 
then take it off the fire and let it cool. 
Line a dish with puff paste, and lay in the 
veal, with thin slices of ham between ; 
add the yolks of hard boiled eggs, a little 
pepper and salt, and half of the gravy the 
veal has been stewed in; put on the lid, 
trim it neatly, form a star of leaves upon 
the top, egg, and bake, it, then pour in 
the remainder of the gravy, heated with 
a little butter-sauce. 

Veat Pie.—Cut steaks from a loin of 
veal, season them with pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, a few pounded cloves, slice two 
sweetbreads, season them in the same 
manner ; line a dish with puff-paste, put 
in the veal, and sweetbreads; add the 
yolks of hard boiled eggs, and oysters at 
the top ;-fill up the dish with stock, put 
on the cover, and bake; when done, pour 
in some good gravy thickened with cream 
and flour. ; 

Veat Potted.—Take a pound of the 
lean of white veal, put it into a stewpan 
with two ounces of fresh butter, the juice 
of alemon, pepper, salt, sifted mace, a 
bay-leaf, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, and mushroom powder, a small 
quantity of each; a little parsley, thyme, 
savory, and a couple of shalots chopped 
fine ; stew them ten minutes, then pound 
them 3 add a pound of the mellow part 
of a boiled pickled tongue, beaten to 
a paste, half.a pound of cold fresh butter, 
mix all well together with two eggs 
beaten; then Abe the mixture down 
tight into small pots, cover them with 
paper; and put them into a moderate 
oven 3 twenty minutes will be sufficient 
for them to bake.; when cold, pour over 
them clarified butter. 


Vea Potted.—Take part of a knuckle | 


or fillet of veal that has been stewed, 
bake it on purpose; beat it toa paste with 
butter, salt, white pepper, and 
pounded ; pot it, and pour clarified but- 
ter over. 

VEAL Quenelles.*—They are made the 
same as all others. 

Vea Ragodt.*—Take a breast of veal, 
cut it into pieces, putit ina stewpan over 
the fire to brown, then pour in. as much 
stock as will cover it; add an onion stuck 


( 484 ) 


mace | 


VEA 


with cloves, some salt, black pepper 
whole, and a bundle of sweet herbs, an 
let it stew till done; then thicken some 
gravy, add a little ketchup, and serve 
over the veal. . r 

VeAL Ragotlt a la Bourgeoise.*—Dis- 
solve some butter in a stewpan, brown 
in it two spoonsful of flour, then put in 
your veal, and keep stirring it till the 
meat is firm; pour in some hot water, 
and continue to stir until it boils, then 

ut in a little thyme, a couple of bay- 
leaves, pepper, and salt, let it boil slowly 5 
in an hour’s time add the pease, onions, 
champignons, carrots, or morels, accord- 
ing to your taste. Ifthe ragodé is thin, 
make a Maison with the yolks of four 
eggs, and serve. 

Vea Rolled.—Bone the thin end of a 
breast of veal, strew over it a good deal 
of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it 
savoury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon- 
peel, and some sweet herbs; roll it tight, 
sew it up, put it into a small stewpan, 
with the bones, and just sufficient water 
to cover it, some whole pepper, a bit of 
lemon-peel, an onion, and a little salt, 
and let it boil until tender; in cold 
weather it will keep good for a week, It 
may be served cold, but is best cut in 
slices, dipped in egg, then in bread 
crumbs, and fried; thicken some of 
the liquor with a little fleur; add 
pickled mushrooms, a little cream, ket- 
chup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; 
eae the sauce in a dish, then lay in the 
veal, 

Vea Sausages.—Take equal quantities 
of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of 
sage, and a few anchovies. Beatallina 
mortar, and seasen well with pepper and ~ 
salt; when wanted for use, roll and fry 
it, and serve either with fried sippets, or 
on stewed vegetables, or white collops. 

Vea Semelles.*—Cut part of a fillet 
of veal into slices an inch thick, season 
them with salt and pepper, and give 
them a few turns in a little butter, with 
a bay-leaf, Lay at the bottom of a deep 
saucepan a very thin slice of bacon, and 
on it one of the slices of veal, and continue 
to lay them in alternately, until the 
whole are used, then add a glass of water 
and some bay: leaves; close the saucepan 
very tight, first putting a sheet of paper 
over the meat; stew it on hot ashes for 
four or five hours; take care to keep the 
fire up to the same point all the time. 

Vea. Stock.—Cut a leg of veal and 
seme lean ham into pieces, put them into 
a saucepan, with a quart of water, some 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and 
celery; stew them down till nearly done, 
but do not let it colour; then add a suffi- 
cient quantity of beef stock to cover the 








VEA 


ingredients, and let it boil for an hour; 


skim off all the fat, and strain it; a little 


game stewed down with the above will 
greatly improve the flavour ; be particu- 
larly careful that it does not burn. 

Veau @ la Villugeoise.—Season some 

large slices of veal with pepper, salt, fine 
spices, parsley, and shalots ; cut likewise 
some thin slices of ham, dip them inegg, 
and lay them on the slices of veal, and 
wrap the ham up in the veal, and let 
them boil with a glass of white wine, and 
the same quantity of stock; when done, 
skim, and strain the sauce, and serve it 
in the dish with the veal, without adding 
any thing else. 
. Vest (Breast of ) Collared.— Bone a 
breast of veal, and beat it; rub it over 
with the yolk of an egg, and strew over a 
little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, 
a large handful of parsley chopped small, 
a few sprigs of sweet marjorum, a little 
lemon-peel shred fine, and an anchovy, 
pounded, and mixed with a few bread 
crumbs. Roll it up tight, bind it witha 
tape, and wrap it in a cloth; then let it 
boil two hours and a half in salt and 
water, then take it out, and hang it up 
by one end to drain, then put it into the 
following pickle: a pint of salt and water, 
and half a pint of vinegar. 

Vea (Breast of ) Collared.— Bone a 
breast of veal, and with a feather do it 
all over with the yolk of egg well beaten ; 
take some crumbs of bread, a little grat- 
ed nutmeg, beaten mace, pepper, salt, 
a few sweet herbs, and a little lemon- 
peel cut small; strew these all over the 
veal; run a thick skewer into it to keep 
it together; roll it up tight, and bind it 
je close with tape ; wrap it in a veal 
eaul, and roast it; before being taken up, 
take off the caul, sprinkle the meat with 
salt, and baste it with butter; it should 
be roasted before a brisk fire, and done 
of a nice brown; when it is taken up, 
cut it in three or four slices, lay itina 
dish; have ready a boiled sweetbread, 
cut it in slices, and lay round the dish, 
_ (some prefer it larded), and serve a good 
white sauce over the veal. 

Vea (Breast of) Glacée.*—Cut the 
breast as square as possible, bone it to 
within two inches of the gristles, and tie 
down the. meat, so that the joint may look 
very plump, and cut the soft bones be- 
yond the gristles. Put the breast into 
a large saucepan with three or four car- 
rots, as many onions, two bay-leaves, two 
cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; cover the 
veal with rashers of bacon, anda buttered 


per}; set it on a large fire to make it’ 


boll, and then lessen it, put some fire on 
the saucepan lid, and so Jeave it; when 
about three parts done, take out the car- 


( 485 ) 
‘rots, &c., and let the liquor fall to a 


VEA 


glaze; and when quite done, turn the 
meat over, that the upper part may take 
the glaze also, then dish the joint; put two 
ladlesful of espagnole, and a spoonful of 
stock into the saucepan; detach the 
glaze from it over the fire, and pour the 
sauce over the veal. Two hours and a 
half are required to dress a breast of veal 
in this manner. 

VEAL (Breast of ) Marinaded. — Take 
a breast of veal, and cut it into pieces, 
and let it boil in some stock till three 
parts done; then take it out, and mari- 
nade it about an hour, with two spoons- 
ful of vinegar, a little of the stock it was 
boiled in, some pepper and salt, two. 
cloves of garlic, four of spices, sliced 
onions, thyme, and bay-leaf; drain it, 
and fry it of a good colour with parsiey. 

Veat (Breast of ) Roasted.— Breast of 
veal should be roasted with the caul on 
till almost done enough, then take it off; 
flour, and baste it. il 

Veau (Breast of) Stewed. — Put a 
breast of veal into a saucepan, with a 
little stock, a glass of white wine, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, 
two or three onions, some pepper and 
salt, and let it stew gently until quite 
tender; when done, lay the meat in a 
dish, skim, and strain the liquor, and 
serve over the meat; garnish with force- 
meat balls. . 

VEAL (Breast of) Stuffed. * — Take 
three quarters of a pound of fillet of 
veal, and a pound of udder; mince, and 
mix with them shred parsley, shalots, 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks of 
three eggs. Cut off the ends of the rib 
bones of a breast of veal, make an incision 
between the topof the meat and the ribs, 
which fill with as much of the farce as it 
will hold, then sew it up, that none of the 
farce may escape ; lay the veal in a brais- 
ing-pan between rashers of bacon; add 
some poélé, and stock if necessary, and 
braise it for three hours. When done, 
let it drain, untie and glaze it. Put some 
reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze, and an 
ounce of butter, into the liquor ; let the 
latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour it 
over the breast of veal. 

Veat (Breast of ) en Surtout.*—Take 
a fine breast of veal, bone it, take offall 
the skin, and layit ona dish; make a fine 
Jarce, which spread all over the meat to 
the thickness of an inch; then roll it up 
with two or three small pigeons, some 
morels, veal sweetbreads, artichoke bot- 
toms, &c.; cover the breast with fillets 
of fowl or game, and the farce; envelop. 
the whole in a thick caul, wash it over 
with. yolk of egg, cover it completely with 
“ere and bake it of anice co- 


VEA 


lour, Serve it with veal gravy. This 
joint ought to be partly dressed in good 
stock before it is put en surtout. 
Veat Chops a la Belle Vue*—Lard 
half a dozen handsomely cut chops, with 
udder, truffles, and tongue @ l’écarlate, 
and then Jay them in a stewpan on slices 
of bacon; cover them with the same}; 
season them with pepper and salt, and 


add two carrots, two onions, (one with- 


two cloves in it), and a douguet; pour in 
a glass of Madeira wine, anda ladleful of 
consommé ; set them on a brisk fire, 
which lessen after a short time, and leave 
the chops on for an hour. When done, 
press out all the moisture; as soon as they 
are cold, trim, glaze, and lay the chops 
on a dish, garnished with whites of eggs, 
truffles, and gherkins; .pour into the 
middle of them a green magnonnaise, and 
put round the edge of the dish a border 
ogre Y 

EAL Chops, Breaded. *— Take six or 
seven handsomely cut chops, season 
them well with salt and pepper, and put 
them. into melted butter; when suffi- 
ciently soaked, put them into beaten 
eggs, take them out, and roll each sepa- 
rately in bread crumbs; make the chops 
as round as you can with your hand, and 
lay them ona dish; when all are bread- 
ed, broil them slowly over a moderate fire, 
that the bread may not be too highly co- 
loured. - Serve with clear gravy. 

Veau Chops a la Drue.*— Lard some 
well cut chops, with bacon and ham, sea- 
soned with pepper, salt, and spices, and 
brown them in some butter, then trim 
them nicely. Put into a stewpar some 
rashers of bacon, slices of veal, the same 
of carrots, two cloves, a bay-leaf, parsley, 
and scallions; lay the chops in, cover 
them with bacon and a buttered paper ; 
moisten with a ladleful of consommé, an 
stew them for an hour and a half, then 
drain, glaze, and serve them with any 
sauce you please. 

_ Veat Chops Fondantes. * — Separate 
the chops from the bones, take out all 
the sinews, and mince the meat very 
small, and also some streaked bacon} mix 
them together, and season the whole 
with pepper, salt, and spices ; spread this 
faree on pieces of caul, making each the 
shape of a chop; burya bone in every 
one, so that the end only will be seen ; 
cover these with bread crumbs, mixed 
with sweet herbs, and then fry them in 
lard; let the pan be very hot. Serve 
them dry,’or not, as you please. 

_Veau Chops en Lorgnette.*— Beat the 
chops rather flat, and lard them with 
bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
spices; brown them in some butter, and 
trim them nicely. Cut seven pieces of 


( 486 ) 


VEA 


tongue, a 7’écurlate, of the size of a half- 
crown, and nearly half an inch thick; 
cut some large onions into round slices. 
the same thickness, but rather larger ; 
take as much from the centre of the lat- 
ter,as the tongue will fill up; make as 
many of these as you have chops, upon 
which place them; then stew the chops 
us for la Drue. When done, glaze the 
chops and the tongue, but not the onion, 
and dish them; reduce the sauce with a 
little espagno/de, and pour it into the dish 
with them. . 

Veau Chops en Papillotes.*—Cut and 
trim your chops as usual; and put them 
into a tossing-pan, with some butter, 
salt, and pepper} set them on the fire, 
and let them remain till nearly done; 
then place them on a dish, and pour the 
butter, with some sweet herbs, over them. 
Take as many pieces of paper as you 
have chops, (each sufficiently large to 
contain a chop), oil them well, lay on 
every onea thin slice of bacon, and (when 
cold) a chop with the herbs on both sides, 
then another thin slice of bacon ; fold 
these up in the paper as close as possible ; 
make the ends quite secure to prevent 
even the butter from escaping, and broil 
them over a slow fire, that they may be 
thoroughly done, and the paper not burnt. 
Serve with'a clear gravy. 

VEAL Chops Sautées.* — Take seven 
handsome veal chops, trim,and lay them 
ina tossing-pan, previously sprinkled 
with pepper and salt; strew over the 
chops, also, pepper, salt, parsley, and 
shalota, shred very smali; pour half a 
pound of melted butter over them, and 
set the pan on a fierce fire; turn the 
chops when one side isdone ; be careful 
not to make them too deep a colour; if 
you find they brown too quickly, lessen 
your fire. When Gone, arrange them 
neatly on a dish; put four ladlesful of 
espagnole, anda bit of glaze into the pan, 
stir it round, and pour the whole over 
the chops, and serve. _ Pre 3 

VEAL Chops, a la St. Garat.*—Cut 
some tongue, @ d’écarlate, into moderate 
sized lardons ; grate a little bacon, and 
warm itina stewpan; add the lardons, 
with pepper, and nutmeg}; tossthem up 
in this, and lard some veal chops quite 
through with them when cold. Brown 
the chops in a little butter, and then 
trim them. Put into a stewpan a few 
rashers of bacon, cuttings of the tongue, 
slices of ham, and a little basil; lay in 
the chops, cover them with bacon, car- 
rots, or onions sliced, and two glasses of 
consomme, or stock ; cover the saucepan ; 
put fire on the lid, and let them stew for 
two hours. When done, drain and glaze 
them; strain the sauce, and with four 








VEA 


ladlesful of it, mix three of espagnole ; 
reduce, and pour it into the dish, with 
the chops. 

- Veau, Chump of, a la Daube.—Cut off 
the chump end of the loin; take out the 
edge bone, and put in its place some 
good forcemeat; tie it up tight, and lay 
it in a stewpan with the bone that has 
been taken out, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
an anchovy, two. blades of mace, some 
white pepper, and a pint of good veal 
stock ; cover the veal with: slices of fat 
bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper 
over it. Cover the pan close, and let it 
simmer for a couple of hours; then take 
out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve 
- it with mushroom, or sorrel sauce in the 
dish, or any other sauce you think bet- 
ter. 

Vean Cutlets, in Crust.—Make a mari- 
nade with melted butter, mushrooms, 
shalots, halfa clove of garlic, pepper and 
salt, and let the cutlets simmer in this 


for an hour; then wrap them in puff | 


paste with all the seasoning; put them 
in a deep dish, and bake them in the 
oven; baste with yolks of eggs; makea 
hole in the middle, into which pour a 
good clear sauce when ready to serve. 

Veat Cutlets, Marinaded.—Veal cut- 
lets marinaded, are done the same as in 
all former directions for marinade; or 
you may do them the same asa breast of 
veal marinaded, and serve with whatever 
sauce you approve of. 

Veau Cutlets, in Paper.—Chop up all 
sorts of sweet herbs, season with pepper 
and salt; mix these with a little oil, roll 
the cutlets in it so that they may be well 
covered ; then wrap them in paper, well 
buttered; broil them slowly, and serve 
either with or without sauce. You may 
also wrap them, if you think proper, in 
very thin slices of bacon. 

Vea Cutlets a la Provencale.*—Lard 


some well-shaped cutlets with anchovies | 
and gherkins, and soak them for half an. 


hour in some oil, with pepper, and salt; 
tie each cutlet in a rasher of bacon, and 
stew them in some butter, with parsley, 
salt, pepper, and two glasses of stock. 


When done, untie, but do not take off 


the bacon. Serve with their own sauce 
reduced. 

Veat Cutlets, in Ragodt.—Cut some 
large cutlets from the fillet ; beat them 
flat, and lard them; strew them over 


with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and 


sbred parsley; then make a ragodt of ' 


veal sweetbreads and mushrooms; fry 
the cutlets ofa nice brown in melted but- 
ter; then lay them in a dish, and serve 
the ragodt very hot over them. 

Veat Cutlets en Redingotes.* —Pre- 


pare your cutlets in the same manner as | 


( 487 ) 


veal chops, en papillotes ; but instead of 





VEA 


wrapping them in paper, envelop them 
with their seasoning in pieces of light 
paste, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. When done, pour veal gravy over, 
and serve the cutlets hot. 

Vea Cutlets, with Sour Sauce.—Let 
the cutlets be cut moderately thick ; put 
them into a saucepan, with just suffi- 
cient water to cover them; when half 
done, take them out, and let them drain 
and cool; make a thin batter with eggs 
and a little flour ; set afrying-pan on the 
fire, with some lard}; as soon as it is hot, 
dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry 
them of a nice brown; serve with sauce 
made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. 

Veau Cutlets, Stewed.—Cut part of 
the neck into cutlets; shorten them, 
and fry them of a nice brown colour 3 
then stew them in some good gravy, 
thickened with a little flour, until tender; 
then add some ketchup, cayenne, salt, 
a few truffles, and merels, and some 
pickled mushrooms. Forcemeat-balls 
are a great improvement. 

Vea Cutlets, and Sweet Herbs.—Chop 
all sorts of sweet herbs, mushrooms, a 
little winter savory, shalots, pepper and 
salt, a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the 
cutlets im this, and reduce the sauce to 
make it stick; then do them over with 
egg, and bread crumbs,'and set them in 
the oven to bake; add a glass of white 
wine, and a little cullis tou the sauce, 
skim it well, and when the cutlets are 
done, lay them on a dish, and serve 
them to table, with the sauce poured 
over. 

Veau (Fillet of) in a Ragoitt.—Take 
out the bone froma nice large white fillet 
of veal, and put intoits place plenty of 
good forcemeat; tie it up well; put it on 


| the spit, fasten buttered paper over, and 


roast it; have a ragodt the same as for 
loin of veal, with ragodt; cut the arti- 
chokes into any form you may think pro- 
per; place the veal in the centre of the 
dish, the artichokes round; serve the 
ragout round, but not over, the veal. 
VeaL, Fillet of, Roasted.—Stuft it with 
the same ingredients as directed for the 
shoulder, and roast it according to the 
same directions. See shoulder of veal 
roasted. The fat should be papered. 
Veal, Fillet of, Stewed.—Stutfit; half 
bake it, with a little stock in the dish; 
then stew it with the stock it was baked 
in, with some good gravy, and a little 
Madeira; when done enough, thicken 
the sauce with flour ; add ketchup, cay- 
enne, a little salt, and lemon-juice ; give 
it a boil, and serve it over the meat. 
Veau Gristles, au Blanc.*—Cut the 


gristles of any form you choose; scald, 


VEA 


and then throw them into cold water: 
when quite cold, trim, and put them 
into a stewpan, with a quarter of a puund 
of melted butter; add:in a minute or 
two a table-spoonful of flour, shake the 
panabout, that the latter may mix with 
the butter; in a little while add stock, 
champignons, a d0uguet garni, and some 
pepper; let these stew for two hours, 
then put in some small onions; when 
the latter are done, make a Laison with 
the yolks of three eggs, and serve the 
gristles, covered with the onions and 
champignons. 

Veau Gristles, en Chartreuse.*—Cut 
and dress the gristles as directed. (See 
Poélés.) Take thirty carrots, and thirty 
turnips, cut them into round pieces, all 
of the same length and size (that of a far- 
thing), and boil them separately in a lit- 
tle consommé ; also boil forty small 
onions (as near of a size a3 possible), and 
twenty. lettuces ; scald seme French 
beans, and young peas, taking care they 
do not lose their green colour; slice half 
the number of pieces of the roots after 
they are boiled. Having thus prepared 
all the ingredients, take a plain round 
mould, butter it well, and cover the bot- 
tom as follows: first, a circle of. the 
sliced carrots, then one of sliced turnips, 
within that, one of the onions, the French 
beans, and the young peas; place them 
as close together as possible. On these 
arrange the other pieces of carrots and 
turnips, put them regularly that they 
may look handsome; cut the lettuces 
into halves, and lay them over the roots; 
these, if laid close, will form a solid foun- 
dation for the rest; place the gristles 
over them, also closely, and fill up all 
spaces with the remaining vegetables. 

over the mould tight, and put it into 
the dain marie for an hour. In the mean 
while, take the liquor in which each arti- 
ele was dressed, clarify, strain, and re- 
duce it; then adda spoonful of reduced 
espagnole, anda bit of glaze; stir these 
well in, and when the chartreuse isready, 
turn it out, and pour this sauce over it. 
| VeatGristles, en Marinade.*—Cut the 
gtristles into square pieces, and put them 
into a stewpan on slices of bacon; cover 
them also with bacon, and pour in a ma- 
rinade; stew them for two hours and a 
half; then drain, dip them in batter, and 
fry them, but not in a hot pan. Serve 
with parsley fried crisp. 

Vea Gristles, Poélés.* — Take the 
gristles from two breasts, of veal, cut 
them very close to the rib-bones ; they 
may either be cut in small square pieces, 
or left whole at pleasure, only taking 
care that they are all the same size ; 
soak and blanch them well, then put 


(ey. 


VEA 


them into a stewpan between slices of 
bacon ; pour a poéle over, and stew them 
for four hours, when, if they are tender 
enough for a larding-pin to penetrate 
them, arrange them in a circle on a dish,’ 
putting into the centre, whatever you’ 
may think proper.” 9!) ( Saray! Hees 
VEAL Gristles, au Soleil.* — Prepare 
and dress the gristles as aw blanc, and 
when thickened, place them on a dish,’ 
and pour the sauce over them. When 
quite cold, cover them with bread- 
crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread | 
them a second time, and fry them, but 
not in avery hot pan. Serve them on 
fried parsley. tei 
VEAL Gristles, Tureen of.*—Prepare 
and stew the gristles aw blanc, except 
that they must be moistened with con- 
sommé instead of stock, they will require 
three hours stewing. ‘Take some small 
veal kernels, sweet- breads, cock’s-combs 
and kidnies, and twelve fowl] guenelies, 
all dressed separately ; drain, and put 
them into the tureen, lay in the gristles, 
and champignons; thicken the sauce 
(which ought to be rather thin than 
otherwise) with the yolks of five eggs, 
and strain it into the tureen. 
VEAL Gristles (Tureen of ).—Wash in 
two or three waters a good quantity of 
veal gristles, taken from the breast or 
any. other part ; then lay them on a sieve 
to drain; put a bit of butter into a stew- 
pan, and set it over a slow fire, and as 
soon as it boils, add more butter ; when 
that has done hissing, put in « the 
gristles, and an onion shred fine, some 
pepper, salt, sweet herbs, shred fine, 
and some flour; let these fry a little, 
then pour in some gravy; add three cab- 
bages cut in pieces, and let the whole be 
thoroughly stewed; when done, skim off 
the fat, pour in some ham cullis, and 
serve. aN 
Vea Kidney.—Take a veal kidney, 
chop it up with some of the fat, likewise 
a little leek, or onion, pepper and salt 5 
a it up with an egg into alls, and fry 
them. , ei 
- Vea Kidnies.—Mixsomesliced onions 
and minced kidney well together ; then 
fry itin butter, and add a little stock, a 
little white wine, about one spoonful, 
pepper and salt, and serve with a Zazson 
of yolks of three eggs, and cream. If you 
wish to serve it brown, instead of eggs 
and cream, make use of cullis sauce, 
They may be broiled, and served with 
a relishing sauce. They may also be 
made into omelets, and served on toasted 
bread. They are likewise very good 
mixed in forcemeats. \> fi 
Vrat Kidnies, Sautés.*—Mince a kid- 
ney smalj, and put it into a tossing-pan, 








VEA 


with a little butter, champignons (pre- 
viously dressed), parsley, shalots, pep- 
per, salt, and nutmeg ; set the pan on the 
fire; a few minutes are quite sufficient 
to do the mince; when done, take it out. 
Put a pinch of flour, a glass of white 
wine, and a little reduced espagnole into 
the pan; stir it round, add a little more 
butter, pour it over the kidney, squeeze 
in some lemon-juice, and serve. 

Veau Kidney Toasts.—Mince a roast- 
ed kidney, mince also half its fat ; season 
it well with pepper and salt, chopped 
shalots, parsley, and a small quantity of 
green sweet basil; mix all together with 
the yolks of eggs, and lay it upon slices 
of bread of an equal thickness, or cut 
into any shape you please, and smoothed 
over with a knife dipped in egg; strew 
over the mince, bread-crumbs, put them 
into a baking dish upon thin slices of 
bacon, and put them into the oven; 
when sufficiently baked, drain off the 
fat, wipe the bread with a linen cloth ; 
serve with alittle gravy under them. 

Vea, Knuckle of, Boiled. — Break 
the bones that it may require less room ; 
wash it well; putit into a saucepan with 
three onions, a blade or two of mace, and 
a few pepper-corns; cover it with water, 
and let it simmer till done. You may, if 
you think proper, boil a little macaroni 
or rice with it, to give it a slight degree 
of thickness. Before it is served, add 
half a pint of milk and cream, and serve 
this either over the meat, or separately. 

Vea, Knuckle of, Fried and Stewed. 
—Fry the knuckle with onions cut in 
slices, and butter, te a nice brown colour; 
and have in readiness some peas, let- 
tuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that 
have stewed about an hour in a small 
quantity of water ; add these to the veal, 
and let all stew together till the meat is 
tender.. Add pepper, salt, and a very 
little mint, shred fine, and serve the 
whole together. 

Veau, Leg of, en Surprise.—Lard the 
veal with slips of bacon, and a little 


lemon-peel cut very thin; make stuffing. 


the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix 
with it half a pint of oysters, chopped 
small, and stuff your veal with this, and 
put it to stew with just sufficient water 
to cover it; let it stew very gently till 


quate tender; then take it up; skim off 
t 


e fat from the liquor, and add some 
lemon-juice, some mushroom ketchup, 
the crumb of a roll grated fine, halfa 
pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit 
of butter, rolled in flour, let this sauce 
thicken over the fire, and serve it over 
the veal ; garnish the dish with oysters, 
dipped in butter, and fried, and thin 
slices of toasted bacon. 


( 489 ) 


VEA 


Veat, Loin of, a la Béchamelle.—Chop 

out the inner bone from a nice white loin 
of veal, and trim it that it will lay smooth 
on the dish; chop off part of the chump 
end, and put it down to roast; let it be 
well done; have a béchamelle sauce pre 
pared, and a few minutes before the veal 
is to be served, take it up, and cut a deep 
square hole close to where the chump 
was cut off; mince the lean you have cut 
out extremely fine, put it into the hot 
béchamelle sauce, and pour it again into 
the hole; serve it to table with a well 
buttered toast under the kidney, and 
plenty of gravy. 
_ Veau (Loin of) Efouffée.*—Bone this 
joint, and trim it of an oblong form; sea- 
son the under part with salt and pepper, 
tie it up, and put it into a braising-pan, 
with three quarters of a pound of butter, 
set it on the fire, and when quite. hot, 
cover the pan; let it stand on a slow fire, 
turning it occasionally for three hours 
anda half.. The joint thus cooked may 
be served simply as a remove to soup, or 
glazed, or cold, with a jeliy round it. 

Vea (Loin of), with Ragodit.—Pre- 
pare the loin the same as with bécha- 
melle, only take particular care that it 
is not roasted of too high a colour; pre« 
pare a ragodt made with truffles, mush- 
rooms, cock’s-combs, livers, &c. &c., 
artichoke bottoms, well stewed; lay 
your veal in the centre of the dish, place 
the artichokes round, and pour the ra- 
godé round and over the artichoke ; 
serve it to table. 

Vea (Loin of) Roasted. —Spit the 
loin, roast and baste it with butter ; place 
under it a dish with some vinegar, a lit- 
tle sage, rosemary and thyme; let the 
gravy drop into this dish; when the veal 
is done, take it up, make the herbs and 


gravy hot, and pour it into the dish with ~ 


the meat. 

Vea (Loin of) Roasted.—The fat of 
the loin must be papered; roast it the 
same as the fillet. 

Veau (Neck of) Botled.—Chop off the 
chine bone from a fine white neck of 
veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in co!d 
water, boil it very gently, taking care to 
skim it well; when done, serve it with 
parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or gar- 
nished with tongue or ham. 

Veau (Neck of) a la Créme.*—Take a 
handsome shaped neck of veal, bone and 
cut out all the sinews, soak it in milk for 
four and twenty hours; then take it out, 
dry it well, sprinkle it with salt, anda 


small quantity of grated nutmeg, fasten. . 


it to the spit, and roast it for two hours 
and a half, basting it with déchamelle. 
When done, put a bit of glaze, a little 
pepper and nutmeg to the béchamelle ; 


VEA 


stir them together, pour the sauce intoa 
dish, and serve the neck of vealinit.§ © 

Veat (Neck of) in Jelly.* — Take a 

square-cut neck of veal, and having boned 
it, lard it regularly with udder, tongue, 
ad UVécariate, and very black truffles ; 
wrap in slices of bacon, and tie it up; put 
the joint into a braising-pan with rem- 
nants of veal and poultry, a douguet, two 
carrots, two onions, two cloves, a glass of 
brandy, halfa glass of Madeira wine, and 
two ladlesful of jelly; set the pan on the 
fire; when the liquor boils, skim it, 
cover the whole with a buttered paper, 
and close the braising-pan; set itona 
stove, with fire onthe lid; keep the heat 
moderate and equal for two hours anda 
half. When done, put the meat under 
pressure, and when cold, trim and glaze 
it. Lay it on a dish: serve it with the 
jelly, and a mayonnaise. 
. VEAu (Neck of) au Sanglier.*¥—Lard 
a good shaped neck of veal as usual, and 
marinade it in two glasses of vinegar, 
with onions, bay-leaf, sage, coriander, 
pepper and salt; place it over hot ashes 
for two hours, and then roast it, using 
the marinade to baste it. 

Veat (Neck of ) Stewed.—Season some 
slices of bacon with pepper, salt, shalots, 
and spices; lard a breast of veal with 
these, and let it simmer until tender in 
three pints of stock, two onions, a bay- 
leaf, and alittle brandy; when done, lay 
the meat in a dish, skim off the fat from 
the liquor, and pour it over the veal. 

Vea (Noix) er Ballottine.* — Season 
some lardons with salt, pepper, the four 
spices, shred parsley and _ scallions, 
thyme, and bay-leaf; lard with this a 
note of veal, and then put it into a stew- 
pan with half a pound of butter, add 
pepper and salt, set it on the fire for 
three quarters of an hour, without letting 
it take colour; then put the veal ina 
dish; leave the pan on the fire that the 
butter may oi], when add a quarter of a 
pound of grated bacon, the same of oil, 
and a dessert spoonful of shalots, chop- 
ped; fry them a little, then put in a dozen 
champignons, chopped, a spvonful © of 
shred parsley, seasoned with pepper and 
nutmeg; when they are all done, pour 
them over the veal. As soon as cold, 
take six sheets of paper, oil them well, 
lay thin slices of bacon over the meat, 
and then wrap it. in a sheet of paper, 
with all its seasoning, fold a second over 
that, folded the reverse way, then again 
another, and so on till all the paper is 
used; take care that the ends are quite 
secure, and that itis folded of a nice 
shape; then tie it up, place it on a grid- 
iron, over a slow fire, minding the paper 
does not burn: do it for an hour, untie 


( 490 ) 


VEA 


the paper, and serve it; if the outer pa: 
per should be coloured in the least de- 


gree, take it off, 

Veau (Noix of) a la Gen-d’arme.*— 
Lard a xozv: of veal with fat bacon, and 
tongue @ /’écarlate, and then soak it for 
twelve hours in oil, with a sliced onion, 
parsley, thyme, garlic, a bay-leaf, pep- 
per and salt; after which wrap it ina 
sheet of paper, with all the marinade ; 
fold two more sheets of paper over it, 
fasten the novw to a spit, and roast it ; 
remove the papers when the meat is 
nearly done, that it may brown; glaze 
it lightly,and serve it with a pozvrade, 


The paper should be well oiled before 


the veal is wrapped in it. SMG Sabet oy 
Vea (Notx of) Sautés.* — Having 
taken off the skin, cut a 20x of veal into 
round pieces, the size and thickness of a 
dollar, beat each piece with the back of 
a knife, lay them neatly in a tossing pan, 
and pour over them three quarters ofa 
ound of melted butter, with shred parse 
ey, scallions, pepper and salt; set the 
pan on the fire, and the moment the 
pieces of veal are hot on one side, turn 
them over, and heat the other: five mi- 
nutes is quite sufficient to do them; then 


lay them ona dish and keep them hot; . 


reduce rather: more velouté than usual, 
add to it the gravy from the pan, anda 
liaison of two eggs; strain this sauce 


over the pieces and serve. = 


VeEAt (Notx of) en Surprise.*—Take a 
well shaped noza, lard the upper part 
with fine lardons, and the under part 
with larger ones, all well seasoned with 
salt and pepper ; line a braising pan with 
rashers of bacon and slices of veal; add 
two carrots, four onions, one stuck with 
cloves, a bay-leaf, salt, a bunch of pars- 
ley and scallions; lay in your veal, co- 
ver the udder only with slices of bacon, 
put a round piece of buttered paper over 
the whole, and braise the noéw as usual, 
and then let itcool. When cold, cut out 
a piece of the meat of an oval shape, 
through which take out great part of the 
meat, leaving it at the bottem a sufficient 
thickness that it will contain a ragoié 
securely. Cuta slice fromthe piece first 


taken out, cut the rest into dice, and do 


the same with some champignons, and 
put both into Jéchamelle. Make the notx 
hot again, then drain and glaze it; put 
the mince into the hole, lay theslice over 
it, glaze that also, and serve it; pour 
some esprgnole travaillée into the dish. 
Vea (Small Noix hie — Take from 
the shoulder of veal fifteen small nox ; 
take offall the skin and trim them; run 
these on three skewers, marinade them 
in some oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, 
pepper and salt, for half an hour; then 





Vote riags 





EO OC REIS By OE 





VEA 
fasten them to a spit, and roast them 
before a large fire; glaze and serve 
with a clear espic, or a purée of any kind 
you like. 

VEAL (Shoulder of) Galantine*—Take 
a handsomely cut shoulder of veal and 
bone it; cut about a pound of meat from 
the thickest parts, mince it together 
with an equal quantity of bacon, mix 
them well with the yolks of four egys, 
shred parsley, salt, and spices,and spread 
the farce, about an inch thick, over the 
whole joint; lay on it some Jdardons, 
truffles. tongue @ /’écarlate, carrots, and 
an omelet, coloured green with spinach 
essence, all cut in dardons ; cover these 
with another layer of farce, place more 
of the Jardons, &c. and then a thirdlayer 
of farce ; rvll up the shoulder, carefully 
securing the ends; lay rashers of bacon 
round it, wrap it in a cloth and tie it 
tight. Line a braising pan with slices of 
bacon, put in the galantine, with two 
calf’s feet, the bone of the shoulder, six 
carrots, eight or ten onions, one stuck 
with four cleves, four bay-leaves, a little 
thyme, a large bunch of parsley and ecal- 
lions ; pour in some stock, and cover the 
pan; set it onthe fire, and leave it for 
three hours, by which time the shoulder 
will be sufficiently done; take it out, 
pressing it gently that all the gravy may 
run from it, and then let it cool. Break 
two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well. 
strain the liquor, and pour it to them, 
stirring all the time, that they may be 
thoroughly blended; add a bay-leaf, a 
little thyme, and parsley, salt, pepper, 
and spices ; set it on the fire, and when 
it begins to boil, remove it to the side ; 
cover the stewpan, and put hot ashes on 
the top, and leave it to boil slowly for 
half an hour, when strain it gently 
through a fine cloth, but do not press it; 
when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place 
the galantine on a dish, trim and glaze 
it, and surround it with the jelly. 
‘Veau (Shoulder of) aux Petites Racines.* 
—The shoulder is boned, and larded in- 
side with bacon, seasoned with shred 
parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper, salt, 
and spices; it is then rolled, and tied up 
like the galantine, dressed in the same 
way. It is served hot, with petites racines 
round it. (See Roots.) 

VeAL (Shoulder of) Roasted. — Cut off 


~~ the knuckle for a stew or gravy, stuff 


the shoulder with the following ingre- 
dients :—some suet, chopped fine, pars- 
ley and sweet herbs, shred fine, bread- 
crumbs, and grated lemon-peel, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg; whilst 
roasting, flour and baste it; veal require 
being more done than beef. 

» Veau Sweetbreads.—They are of them- 


( 491 ) 


VEA 


selves, generally considered very insipid, 
and are, therefore, usually served with a 
sharp relishing sauce, in whatever man- 
ner they are dressed, and commonly 
take their name from the sauce with 
which they are served. Particular care 
should be taken to braise them tender 
and white. Sy 

Vea Sweetbreads & Il’ Anglaise.* — 
Take six veal sweetbreads (three of each’ 
sort) scald, and then dress them in a 
half glaze, in which let them coo} ; have 
ready the yolks of four eggs, beaten with 
a quarter of a pound of butter, to the 
consistence of a thick cream; drain the 
sweetbreads, soak them in it, and then 
roll them in grated bread; repeat this 
operation, and either broil or bake them. 

VeaL Sweetbreads (Atelets of).* — 
When the sweetbreads are scalded, cut 
them into oblong pieces, all the same 
size, and put them into an atelet¢ sauce 5 
cut also a calf’s udder in the same man- 
ner, but very thin; put these, alter- 
nately, on skewers; dip them in beaten 
egg, and broil them. Serve with a to- 
mata, or Jtalienne sauce. 

VEAL Sweetbreads a la Béchamelle.— 
Blanch two throat sweetbreads, and then 
let them stew for fifteen minutes insome 
good braise ; take them out, and let them 
cool; then triin them neatly round, and 
cut them in rather thin slices, put them 
into some good béchamelle sauce ; a few 
mushrooms is a very greatimprovement} 
make the whole very hot, and serve. 

VraL Sweetbread Boudin.* — The 
sweetbreads being scalded, cut them into 
piecesas big as nuts, and mix with them 
pork and beef, chopped small, shred tar- 
ragon and scallions, godiveau, bread, 
boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of 
eggs, season the whole with salt, pepper, 
and spices. Soak sonie pieces cf caulin 
warm water to soften them, spread 
them open on the table, and fill them 
with the above mentioned mixture 3 rol} 
them up in whatever shape and size you 
please, cook them ina Dutch oven, and 
serve them crisp. 

VEAL Sweetbreads en Caisse.*-—Make 
three paper cases, each sufficiently large 
to contain a sweetbread; take three 
sweetbreads, scald, and then dress them 
in an afelet sauce; when done, and cold, 
put them into the cases, previously rub- 
bed with oil; add a spoonful of espagnole 
to the sauce ; mix them well together, 
and then pour it into the cases; cover the 
sweetbreads with a few finely grated dry 
crumbs, adda few drops of melted butter, 
and bake for half an’ hour; let them be 
nicely browned and serve, 

VEAL Sweetbreads with Cheese.* —Fry 
some small onions in a little butter, and 


VEA 


then put in the sweetbreads, and half a 
glass of good stock. Cut some Gruyére 
cheese into thin slices, lay them on a 
dish, and pour on them a little veal 
gravy, previously mixed with the yolks 
of two eggs; place the dish over a mode- 
rate fire, that the cheese may dissolve 
gradually, and when the gratin is formed, 
pour on it the sweetbreads with their 
sauce, brown it with the salamander, and 
serve very hot. 

Vea Swectbreads (Coquilles of ).* — 
Cut a throat sweetbread and some 
champignons into bits like farthings ; 
put two large ladiesful of allemande, and 
a bit of glaze into a saucepan; when it 
boils, put in the sweetbreads, and cham- 
pignons, some butter, parsley, and le- 
mon-juice; give them a boil, and then 
put the preparation into scallop shells, 
cover them with grated bread, and Par- 

esan cheese, and brown them in a 
Dutch oven. 

Veau Sweetbreads with Cullis.—Well 
scald the sweetbreads, and trim them, 
put them into a stewpan, with a small 
quantity of good consommé, a bunch of 
parsley, a clove of garlic, twospoonsful of 
spices, a glass of white wine, a slice of 
ham, pepper, and salt; when they are 
done, skim the sauce, sift it througha 
sieve, and reduce it to a moderate consis- 
tence, adding a small quantity of parsley 
chopped fine, a squeeze of lemon-juice, 
and serve it over the sweetbreads. The 
lemon-juice mustbe omitted if the wine 
makes it sufficiently sharp or relishing, 
which is the case for some palates. 

Veat Sweetbread a la Duchesse.— 
Scald it, then lard it; put into the middle 
a little farce called salpicon, made with 
mushrooms, truffles, or fat liver; sew it 
up, and boil it in good veal stock ; reduce 
the sauce to a glaze, and serve witha 
wine sauce, Orange, or any other. Itis 
also served with any sort of stewed 
greens, glazed like a veal fricandeau. 

Veat Sweetbreads Fried.—Cut them 
in long slices, and with a feather do them 
all over with yolk of egg; make a season- 
ing of pepper, salt, and grated bread; do 
them over with this, and fry them in 
butter; serve with butter sauce, with a 
little ketchup mixedin, or with gravy, or 
lemon-sauce. 

Vea Sweetbreads (Garniture of).*— 
Scald the sweetbreads, and put them into 
a stewpan on two rashers of bacon, lay 
another over them, add a little clarified 
butter, carrots, onions, bay-leaf, two 
cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock 
to cover the whole; put in some salt, 
and stew the sweetbreads for three quar- 
ters of an hour. When done, cut them 
in pieces to use when directed, 


( 492 ) 


VEA 


Vea Sweetbreads Glacés.*—Take the 
whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- 
breads, soak them well in warm water, 
then blanch them in nearly boiling water; - 
take them out, drain, and lard them, Lay 
in a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices 
of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and 
two bay-leaves; put in the sweetbreads, 
with half a spoonful of stock only; cover: 
them witharound of buttered paper, and 
braise them for three quarters of an hour. 
Take care they donot take culour. Serve 
with a purée of endive, or any other arti- 
cle of the same kind. 

VeAL Sweetbreads like Hedgehogs.— 
Scald the sweetbreads, and lard them, 
with ham, and truffles, cut in small lar- 
dons, and fried for a short time in butter 
(lard them so that the lardons may stick 
out a little to give the wppearance of 
bristles): simmer the sweetbread thus 
larded in the same butter the Jardons 
were fried in, with stock, a glass of white 
wine, seasoned with a little salt, and pep- 
per; when done, skim and strain the 
sauce, add alittle cullis, and serve this 
over the sweetbreads. 

Veau Sweetbreads Larded. — Parboil 
two or three sweetbreads; when they are 
cold, lard them down the middle with 
little bits of bacon, on each side with bits 
of lemon-peel, and beyond that, with a 
little pickled cucumber cut very small; 
stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, 
thickened with a little flour, add mushe 


room powder, cayenne, salt, if necessary, 


and a little lemon-juice, 

Veau Sweetbread Pie. —(See Sweet- 
bread under the letter S.) 

VEAL Sweetbreads Roasted.—Trim off 
the tough part, and blanch for three 
minutes in a stewpan of water, with a 
little salt, three heart sweetbreads, then 
take them out, and put them into a basin 
of cold water till cool; have an egg beat 
up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and 
clarified. butter, run a skewer through 
the sweetbreads, and fasten them on the 
spit; egg them all over, shake some 
bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clarifi- 
ed butter over, and then bread crumbs 
again; put them down to roast again for 
a quarter of an hour, then take them off 
the skewer, and serve them on a dish 
over a little butter sauce, mixed with a 
spoonful of gravy, a small bit of glaze, 
and a squeeze of lemon-juice; let it be 
hot, but. not boiling, and thoroughly well 
mixed before it is served under the sweet- 
breads, 

VEAL Sweetbreads (Sauté of ).*—Pre- 
pare scald, and drain the sweetbreads ; 
when cold, cut them inte slices about half 
an inch thick; put some clarified butter 
into a tussing- pan, season the slices with 





w 


i 
¥ 


Ry 


on —_- 


re 








VEG 


pepper and salt, lay them in the pan, 
pour more butter over them, and set the 
pan on a hot stove ; when one side is 
done, turn them; they require a very 
short time to dress them. Serve them 
with an Jtalienne. 

-Veat Sweetbreads to Stew.— Parboil 
them, and stew them in a white gravy; 
add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, 
and white pepper. 


VEAL Sweetbreadswith Sweet Herbs.— 


Braise them the sameas with cullis sauce, 
or much in the same manner; take all 
sorts of sweet herbs finely chopped, or 
any one or two in particular, and simmer 
them for some time in gocd cullis, and 
serve upon the braised sweetbreads,either 
whole, or cut in-pieces. 

Veat Tendons a la Provencale.*—Cut 
your tendons into scaHops, scald and 


press them; when cold, put them into a 


tossing-pan, with a half glaze ; take care 
that the glaze covers them entirely ; 
- the tendonson a dish, em couronne ; 

ave ready some onions dressed as fol- 
lows: cut them in slices, and fry them, 
with a very little garlic, in some oil ; 
drain the onion, simmer it in a-spoontul 
of espagnole, with a little vinegar and 
allspice: pour this over the tendons, and 


serve. 

VEGETABLES. — Vegetables should 
be gathered fresh, picked clean, trimmed 
or pared neatly, and washed in several 
waters. Those that are to be plaim boiled 
should be putinto plenty of boiling water, 
with salt init, and drained the moment 
they are sufficiently done. If over boiled 
they lose their crispness and beauty. 

VecETABLes (Dish of ).—Wash a dish 
with white of raw egg, then make four 


divisions in it with fried bread, and@-put 


alternately into each division the follow- 
- ing vegetables: spinach, turnips, pota- 
toes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or 
cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, ali pre- 
viously stewed in a little cullis; when 
put into the dish, let as much of the 
essence as possible adhere to them. You 
may, if you please, instead of making the 
divisions of fried bread, make them of 
mashed potatoes and yolks of eggs mixed 
together, and put on the dish in as many 
divisions as yow please; afterwards baked 
till of a nice colour, and served to table 
with any kind of stewed vegetables you 
may approve. 

VWereeraste Marrow.*— The smallest 
are considered the best for dressing: they 
should be put into hot water with a little 
salt, and boiled for half an hour, that 
they may be quite tender; serve them 
on toasted bread, with plain butter ina 
boat: | 

VEGETABLES ?” a Mould.—Line the in- 


( 493 ) 


adry cold 





VEG 


side of an oval mould with rashers of 
bacon ; then set upright alternately, slips 
of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, 
and celery, and asparagus heads. Lay a 
forcemeat atithe bottom of the mould, and 
round the inside of the vegetables; fill. 


the centre with stewed beef tails, with 


the bones taken out, or with small pieces’ 
of mutton or veal passed with sweet’ 


herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 


Cover with forcemeat, wash it over with 
egg, and bake it. 


l When it is to be serv- 
ed, turn it gently out of the mould upon 


a dish, take off the bacon, make a little 


hole at the top, and pour in some good’ 
cullis. 

_ VeceTaBLe Pie.—Cut celery heads two 
inches long, turnips and carrots into’ 
shapes, some peeled small onions, or two 
Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut 
into quarters, pieces of cauliflower, or 
heads of brocoli, heads of fine aspa- 
ragus, and any other vegetable you may 
think proper. Wash all these vegetables 
thoroughly clean; then boil’ each sepa- 


rately in just sufficient water to cover 


them, and as they get tender, strain the 
liquor into one stewpan, and put the 
vegetables into another. Then add to- 
their essence half a pint of strong con- 


sommé ; thicken it with flour, and season 


with cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice ; boil 
it for ten minutes, and then strain it to 
the vegetables, and let them simmer 
together. Serve them in a raised pie 
crust, or in a pie-dish, with a raised crust 
baked'round it. 

VEGETABLES to Preserve for the Win- 
ter, — French beans must be picked 
young, and a layer of them put three 
inches deep into a small wooden keg}; 
sprinkle’ them over with salt, and then 
put another layer of beans, and etrew 
salt over, and so onas highas you please; 
be careful net te put too much salt. 
Cover them with a plate or a piece cf 
wood that will go into the keg, and place 
a heavy stone over it ; a pickle will exude 


| from the salt and beans; when wanted 


for use, cut, soak, and boil them the same 
as though they were fresh. 
Keep carrots, parsnips, and beet-reots, 


‘in layers of dry sand, and do not clean 


either them, or potatoes, from the earth 
that remains about them. 

Store onions should be kept hung up in 
room. 

Cut parsley quite close to the stalks, 
and dry it in a warm room, or dry itina 
very cool oven upon tins. 

Let artichoke bottoms be dried slowly, 
and kept in paper bags; keep truifles, 
morels, lemon-peel, &c., in a very dry 
place. 

You ot keep small close cabbages 


VEN 


rhany weeks, by laying them, before the 
frost sets in, on a stone floor, which will 
blanch, and make them very fine. 

VEGETABLE Sowp.— Peel and cut into 
slices six large onions, six carrots, and 
four turnips; fry them in halfa pound of 
butter, and pour on them four quarts of 
boiling stock, then add to these a crust 
of bread toasted as brown and as hard as 
posmntes (but be careful that it is not 

urnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white 
pepper, and salt; and let the whole stew 
gently for four hours, then strain it 
through a coarse cloth; have ready, 
sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg, 
add them to the soup, and let them stew 
in it until quite tender. Some like the 
addition of an anchovy, and a little 
ketchup. 

VELOUTE.*—Take the cuttings and 
remains of any joints of veal and fowl you 
may have in the house, of which take 
four pounds, and put into a large stew- 
pan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, 
scallions, three bay-leaves, three cloves, 
anda ladleful of stock; put your stewpan 
on a fierce fire, skim it well, and take care 
that the meat does not stick; when suffi- 
ciently reduced, add as much stock as will 


nearly fill the stewpan, salt it well; give it 


a boil, skim it, and then put it on the side 
of the fire to simmer for two hours ; after 
which strain it through atammy. Make 
a white roux, stir into it for ten minutes 
a few champignons, then pour on it, a 
little at a time, the above liquor; let it 
boil up once, skim it, and set it again _by 
the side of the fire for an hour and a 
half: take off all the fat, strain it again, 
and then put it by for use. Take care 
that the velouté is not in the least colour- 
ed, as, the whiter it is the better. 

The velouté travaillée is done in the 
same manner as the espagnole. 

VENISON. — The choice of venison 
should be regulated by the appearance of 
the fat, which, when the venison is 
young, Icoks thick, clear, and close; as 
it begins to change first towards the 
haunches, run a knife into that part ; if 
tainted you will perceive a rank smell, 
and it will have a green or blackish ap- 
pearance. i 

If you wish to preserve it, you may by 
careful management and watching, keep 
it for a fortnight by the following method: 
wash it well with milk and water very 
elean, and dry it perfectly with cloths 
until there is not the least damp remain- 
ing, then dust pounded ginger over every 
part; this is a good preventive against 
the fly. When to be dressed, wash it 
with a little luke-warm water, and dry it. 
Pepper should also be added to keep it. 


( 494 ) 


VEN 


fry it; put some gravy into a stewpany’ 


with a little flour, red wine, currant-jel- — 


ly, and a little lemon-juice; boil these 
together ; putin the venison, let it heat,’ 
without boiling, and serve. a 
Venison %n Collops.— Cut part of 2 
haunch of venison into collops, which 
‘beat with the back of a knife, and lard 
them with small lardons; shred some’ 
thyme, rosemary, parsley, spinach, and: 
other sweet herbs; mix them with suet. 
chopped fine, salt, pepper, cloves, nut- 
meg, and the yolks of eggs; spread this 
farce over the collops, roll them up, tie 
them round, and roast them ; placea disk: 
under them to receive the gravy, pour 
claret into it, and when the collops are’ 
nearly done, put the dish on hot ashes, 
with grated bread, vinegar, cinnamon, 
and a little sugar; stir them together,” 
add’a ladleful of clarified butter, put in 
the collops of venison, and serve very 
hot, with asauce made as follows: take 
of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass 
each; put into them an onion stuck with 
cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoon- 
ful of salt, the same of pepper, and of 
cloves also; give the whole a boil, and: 
then strain it. aii ' 
Venison Hashed.—Warm it in its own 
gravy; if there is no fat left, take some: 
slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with 
alittle port wine and sugar, and let it 
simmer till dry; then add it to the hash. » 
Venison Hashed.*—Take some ancho- 
vies, boil them till they are dissolved, 
then add some oysters with their liquor,’ 
a little milk, some red wine, and a little 
ketchup ; put in your venison, let it: 
warm in this, but do not let it boil, and 
serve it with fried sippets, and the sauce 
&c. over it. $s gyi) 
Venison Pasty, fo be served Hot.— 
Bone a breast of venison, beat it flat, cut 
it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, 
and lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it 
some drawn beef-gravy; lay the bones on 
the top, then put the jar in a saucepan of ' 
water over the fire, and let it simmer for ° 
three or four hours, then set it in a cold 
place till the following day; then lay a’ 
puff-paste, tolerably thick, round the 
edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the | 
dish, having first taken off the cake of 
fat from the top; if not sufficiently sea-° 
sored, add more pepper, salt, and all- 
spice; pour in part of the liquer, add. 
some port wine, egg the bottom paste, 
and lay on a thick top paste; trim and — 
egg it, and let it bake rather more than 
an hour in a moderate oven; reduce the ° 
remainder of the liquor with half a bottle 
of port wine till very strong, add a little 
cayenne, and pour this into the pasty 


Venison (Breast of ).—Either roast or | just before serving. 


Tee? ae ee 


SSeS 


j 
d 
; 
7 











VEN 


Venison Pie or Pasty. — All kinds 
of meat intended for pies and pasiies 
anust be highly spiced when served hot, 
and still more highly spiced when served 
‘cold; but the seasoning must be regu- 
lated by judgment and taste. ‘l'ake one 
or two breasts of venison, (according to 
the size you wish to make your pie or 
pasty), bone it thoroughly, beat it very 
flat, and lard it through and through with 
large lardons, well seasoned with all sorts 
of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped ; 
roll it up as tight as possible, and tie it 
up with strong twine. Put into a stew- 
pan the bones and trimmings of the veni- 
son, with carrots, onions, parsley, one 
clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper- 
corns, and allspice, and let all stew till 
nearly dry; fiil it up with equal quanti- 
ties of beef or mutton braise, and water, 
which let boil very gently till done, then 
put in the roll of venison; put paper on 
the tep, cover very close, and let it stew 
gently with fire over and under. When 
sufficiently done, take it off the fire, and 
let it stand in the liquor until nearly 
cold; then prepare a plain paste of four 
pounds of flour to one pound of butter, 
the same as for raised pie, but instead of 
making it stiff, mix it as soft as possible ; 
lay part of this paste as thick as you well 


can round the edge of the dish; cut off 


the twine from the venison, skin, and lay 
it in the dish, and pour some of the 
gravy it has stewed in; put on the cover, 
trim it very neatly, make a hole in the 
top, do it over with egg, and bake it ina 
moderate oven for three or four hours; 
reduce the remainder of the liquor it 
was stewed in, and when the pie 1s bak- 
ed, pour itin; serve it cold. ‘The pasty 
can scarcely be made too thick. | : 
Vent30n Potted.—Put the venison into 
a pan, and pour red wine over it, and 
cover it with about a pound of butter; 
ptt a paste over the pan, set it in the 
oven, and let it be well baked; when 
done, take the meat out of the gravy, 
beat it fine with the butter that has risen 
to the top, add more if necessary ; season 
with pepper, salt, and mace pounded; 
put it into pots, set them in the oven for 
’ afew minutes; take them out, and when 
cold, cover with clarified butter. 
Venison Roasted. — To dress the 
hauach, chop off the shank, take off the 
skin, but not any of the fat; then fasten 
it on the spit. Make a paste of flour and 
water, roll it out to the shape of the veni- 
son; lay it on thick upon the venison, 
paper over that, and secure it well with 
pack-thread. Let it roast at a good dis- 
tance from the fire, and baste it fre- 
quently. About a quarter of an hour 
before serving take off the paste, dredge 


( 495 ) 


VER 

it with flour, baste it witha bit of butter 
andsprinkle a little salt over it; and when 
of a fine brown colour, take it up, serve 
iton a dish, witha good gravy under it, 
and garnish the bone with cut paper. 
Serve with hot port wine, or currant jelly, 
ina boat. A neck of venison should be 
covered with paste, and roasted in the 
same manner as the haunch, only thatit 
does not require being so much done. 

Venrson Sauce.— Serve with venison, 
currant jelly by itself, or warmed with 
port wine, ov port wine warmed by itself. 

Venison Semey.— Make some paste 
with the crumb of a brown loaf grated 
very fine, a pint of white wine, two 
pounds of sugar, and the rind ofan orange 
shred small, add alitile nutmeg, and salt; 
mix it well with the hand; roll it out; 
wrap the venison completely in this 
paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it 
with white wine, boiled up with sugar, 
and spice; strew powder-sugar over it. 

Venison (to Stew).—Cut the venison 
into slices, and put them into a stewpan, 
with a little claret, rosemary, six cloves, 
vinegar, sugar, and grated bread; set 
these on a moderate fire to stew. When 
done, add grated nutmeg, and serve. 

Venison Stewed.—Put into astewpan 
a pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, 
a large spoonful of currant jelly; cut the 
venison into slices, and flour it, and put 
it into the stewpan with the ingredients, 
and let it simmer till tender ; take up the 
venison ; thicken the sauce with a bit of 
butter rolled in flour, and serve it over 
the meat, 

Venison (Shoulder of ) Stewed.—Take 
out the bone and beat it; have ready 
some slices of mutton fat, that have been 
soaked a few hours in port wine, and lay 
them about the venison ; sprinkle a lite 
pepper, and allspice, in fine powder, over 
it, roll it up tight, and tie it. Put it into 
a stewpan that will just hold it, with 
some mutton or beef gravy, not too 
strong, half a pint of port wine, some 
pepper, and allspice. Let it simmer very 
closely covered, aid as slowly as possible 
for four hours. When quite tender, take 
off the tape, lay the meat ina dish, and 
strain the gravy over it. Serve with cur- 
rant-jelly sauce. The shoulder should 
not be dressed in this manner if very fat. 

VERDE. — Infuse the riad of three 
lemons and four oranges in two quarts 
of rum or brandy, for four-and-twenty 
hours, closely stopped ; then squeeze the 
juice through a strainer; if the fruit is 
good, there will be half a pint, and if 
there is not so much, make it that; add 
to it a pound and a quarter of sugar, pour 
to it three quarts of water, and keep 
i ba all the sugar is dissolved ; 


VER 


when it is dissolved, stir in the peel and 
spirits, and then one pint of cold new 
milk; pass it through a bag till clear ; 
bottle it. It will keep good for twelve 


ths. 
me ERJUICE.—Verjuice is the young, 


unripe, and sour grape ; it is frequently | 
used in French cookery, but very rarely | , A : 
| very green verjuice as will yield six 

. Vergsuice. — Take some crab apples | 
when the kernels turn black, lay them | 
in a heap to sweat; then pick them from | 
the stalks and rottenness, beat them toa | 
mash, and press the juice through a bag | 


put into English dishes. 


of coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel ; 
it will be fit for use ina month’s time. 
If intended for white pickles, distil it in 
acold still. It may be put into sauces 
when lemon is wanting. 

Versuice (Compote of ).*~—Choose the 
largest verjuice, split them open, an 


take out the seeds; throw the berries | 


into cold water. Boil some water in a 
skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it 
into the skillet; when it rises to the sur- 
face, take the skillet from the fire, cover 
it, and let it stand. When cold,.drain, 
and mix the verjuice with a sufficient 
quantity of clarified sugar; give it two 
-or three boils together; remove it from 
the fire, skim, and pour it into the com- 
potier. 

Versuice Marmalade.*-Take the seeds 
from your berries, which put into a skil- 
let of boiling water, and set them on the 


fire ; when the berries rise to the sur-_ 
face, cover the skillet, take it from the | 
fire, and place it om hot ashes for two | 


hours, that they may be quite green} at 


the end of that time pour the whole into | 
a pan; when cold, press the juice from 
the verjuice, through a sieve into a stew- | 


pan, and put it again on the fire that the 
moisture may evaporate; then take it 
out quickly, weigh it, boil an equal quan- 
tity of sugar to cassé, mix the fruit with 
it, simmer them together a little while, 
and then pour it into pots. 
Versuice Preserved.*—Split, and take 
the seeds from two pounds of verjuice, 
put the fruit into a skillet of boiling wa- 
ter, set it on the fire, give it one boil, 
and then leave it ona very slow fire for 
five or six hours, covered close; at the 
end of that time the fruit will be green, 
‘and may be drained. Boil two pounds of 
sugar to petite plume, add the verjuice, 
boil it up twice with the pan covered ; 
skim it well, and pour the preserve into 
ars. 
; Versuics Preserved Dry.*—Scald the 
verjuice as above, boil your sugar to 
perlé, add the fruit, boil several times, 
and then pour the preserve intoa pan ; 


( 496 ) 





VER 


the next day drain off the syrup, boil it 
to grand perlé, put in the verjuice, cover 
the pan, give one boil, skim it, and put 
it aside. The next day drain the ver- 
juice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar 
over,and dry it in the oven, or on a 
stove. . $ 

Vexsuice, Syrup of.*—-Crush as much 


pounds of juice; strain the juice, first 
through a sieve, and then through a 
jelly-bag until perfectly clear ; boil three 

ounds of sugar to petzt plume, pour the 
juice to it; take care that the fire isa 
large one, boil the whole to perlé, and 
then take it off the fire, and when the sy- 
rup is half cold, bottle it. iby 

VERMICELULI Soup a ?Allemande.— 
Stir together in a basin, the yolks of 
seven eggs, with half a pint of cream 
squeezed through a tammy, and the mi- 
nute before serving the soup to table, add 
this /azson to it. 

VERMICELLI Cream.—Boil some ver- 
micelliin milk until it becomes quite a 
marmalade; let it cool, and then mix 
with ita pint of cream, some macaroni 
drops, orange-flowers, and lemon-peel,all 
chopped very fine, with a little pounded 
cinnamon, five whole eggs well beaten, 
and sweeten with powder sugar accord- 
ing to taste; pour it into the dish it is 
to be served in, and bake it as usual. - 

VERMICELLI 72 Milk.*—Boil the quan- 
tity of milk you may require, and put 
into it halfa pound of vermicelli peeled, 
and a sufficient quantity of sugar 3 stir it 
frequently that the vermicelli may not 
form a paste: halfan hour will be long 
enough to boil it. A little almond milk 
may be added when ready for table. 

VeERMICELLI Pudding.*—Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of vermicelli with a little 
cinnamon, in a quart of milk; in the 
meantime mix a quarter of a pound of 
melted butter with a pint ofcream, and 
the yolks of four eggs ; pour in the ver- 
micelli when quite soft; add a little flour 
and beef marrow, and powder sugar to 
the taste; beat all up for half an hour, 
tie it in a floured cloih, and boil it. 
VERMICELLI Pudding.--Boil four ounces 
ofvermicelli in a pint of new milk, until 
quite tender, with a stick or two of cin 
namon. Then add half a pint of thick 
cream, a quarter Of a pound of butter, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks 


of foureggs, thoroughly beaten ; lay the 
above ina dish and bake. : 


VERMICELLI Soup.* — Take as much 
good stock as yourequire for-your tureen, 
strain, and set iton the fire, and when it 
boils, put in the vermicelli, and let itsim- 


, mer for half an hour by a slow fire, that 








i 
| 


a a 


ee ee en ee 





VIN 


the vermicelli may not burst; the soup 
Ought not to be very thick. Half a pound 
is sufficient for eight or ten persons. 

VermiceLu Soup ad la Jardiniére.*— 
Take the same roots as mentioned for a 
Macédoine, cut them into fillets instead 
of dice ; cook them in some stock before 
you put in the vermicelli ; season with 
salt and pepper 5 skim the soup fre- 
quently while boiling. 

VERMICELLI Soup with Onions.*—Cut 
the best parts of some onions into very 
thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a 
little butter ; then add as much stock as 
you require for your soup, season it with 
salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, 
and boil for halfan hour. If you desire 
to have merely the flavour of the onions, 
Strain the soup through a tammy, before 
you serve it. 

VESPETRO.*—Take half a pound of 
each of the following seeds: angelica, 
coriander, fennej,and carraway, the rinds 
of four lemons, and as many oranges, in- 
fuse all these in two gallons and a half of 
the best brandy, close the vessel] hermeti- 
cally. In five days time, distil it in the 
batx marie alembic, and draw from the 
‘above quantity five quarts of dégweur. 
Dissolve seven pounds of sugar ina gal- 
lon of pure river water; add this syrup 
to the légueur, filter, and bottle it. 

VINEGAR.—This is an acid liquor, 
prepared by a second fermentation from 
various liquors, such as wine cyder, 
perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c. 
But the most common method of making 
it, in England, is from malt, and the pro- 
cess is 4s fullows:—infuse a quantity of 
malt in hot water for an hour anda half, 
then pour it intoa cooler. As soon as 
the infusion is sufficiently cold, put it 
into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and leave 
it to ferment for four or five days; afier 
which put the liquor into barrels, in a 
room heated with stoves, so that a mo- 
derate warmth maybe kept up for six 
weeks, and the fermentation continue 
regularly. By the end of that time 
the whole will be completely soured, and 
must now be changed into other barrels ; 
lay a tile on the bung-holes to keep out 
the wet, but not so close as to prevent a 
free circulation of air, and then place 
them in the openair for four or five 
months, according as the weather is 
warm or otherwise ; during the whole of 
this period, the fermentation proceeds, 
and at the end, the vinegar is nearly done. 
The next operation is this: the vinegar 
is poured into large vessels, calléd rape- 
tuns, to which there are false bottoms 
covered with rape, thatis, tie refuse of 
raisins, or other fruit, from which wine 
has been made; fill one of these tuns en- 


( 497 ) 


VIN 

tirely with the vinegar, and another about 
three fourths full, and every day take 
a portion of the liquor out of the fullest 
barrel, and put it into the other, until 
the vinegar is in a fit state to be drawn 
off; whenit must be closely barrelled. 

Vinegar may also be made in much 

smaljer quantities for domestic purposes; 
the materials of various kinds, with the 
addition of sugar ; raisins, currants, and 
ripe gooseberries, however, are the prin- 
cipal ; sometimes it is made from brown 
sugar, and water alone. The propor- 
tions are the same as those necessary 
for strong wine; make the barrel about 
three fourths fuil, add a toast covered 
with yeast, put in the bung very loosely, 
and place the barrel where it will be ex- 
posed to the sun, or, if it be winter, near 
the fire. The fermentation should be 
moderate and constant till the vinegar is 
complete ; then draw it off clear, give it 
a boil, and when quite cold, strain and 
bottle it. 
_ Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mix- 
ing with the latter its own flowers, or 
ferment, and its tartar reduced to pow- 
der, and put into a vinegar or any 
other cask; if the latter, it must be 
placed in a warm situation, full of the 
steam from vinegar; in either case the 
liquor should be stirred frequently ; the 
second fermentation will speedily com- 
mence ; it will become heated, and turn 
acid by degrees, and ina short time the 
vinegar will be produced. 

It is commonly supposed that wine 
which has become acid, will produce ex- 
cellent vinegar; this, however, is a mis- 
taken idea, for the stronger and better 
the quality of the wine, the stronger and 
better will be the vinegar. ; 

The French have several methods of 
making vinegar, which are subjoined. 

The vinegar makers of Orleans pour 
the wine, of which they intend to make 
their vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms 
of which are close gratings of lime twigs; 
these serve to clarify the wine, as the 
lees adhering to the twigs, leave the 
liquor perfectly clear. They then pro- 
cure a number of casks, each containing 
a hundred gallons, either new or which 
have previously contained vinegar ; these 
are set upright, and in the top of every 
one is bored a hole, two inches in diame- 
ter, these are kept constantly open; the 
last mentioned casks are called Mothers ; 
pour intoall of them twenty five gallons 
of boiling vinegar ; to this, in a week’s 
time, add three gallons of wine, drawn 
from the first mentioned casks; continue 
to add the wine, at intervals of a week, 
until the Mothers are quite full; then 
leave Pee maet a fortnight, at the end of 


VIN? 


which period they generally draw off the 
vinegar, taking care always to leave the 

Mothers half full, at least, and then to fill 
them with wine as before. The method 
of proving when the vinegar is fit for 
use, is, by plunging a stave into it 5 if on 
taking it out, a white line is perceptible 
on the end of it, the vinegar is quite 
ready. The place where the casks are 
kept should be very airy, and in the 
winter time, by means of stoves, the 
temperature should be raised to eighteen 
degrees of Reaumur. 

' Paris vinegar varies from the above, 
and the process is very simple. A large 
quantity of wine lees is put into coarse 
sacks, and laid in tubs, which are placed 


one upon another to form a kind of press; | 


by means of a screw, every drop of wine 
is gradually squeezed from the lees; this 
operation cannot be performed in less 
time’than a week. The wine thus ex- 
tracted is putinto casks ; in the headings 
a hole is made, as above, which holes are 
left constantly open; in summer time 
the casks so filled are placed in the sun, 


and, generally speaking, the vinegar is fit 


for use in a fortnight. Inthe winter, the 
fermentation. will last double the time, 


and must be assisted by artificial warmth. | 


It sometimes happens that the liquor 
heats to so great a degree that the band 
cannot be borne in it; in this case, the 
progress of the fermentation must be 
checked by adding more wine, until it 
proceeds more. regularly. When the 
vinegar is made; put it into casks, which 
have the beech twigs at the bottom, as 
above mentioned ; Jet it remain a fort- 
night, by which time it will be sufficiently 
fermented to draw off into the,casks for 
keeping it. : 

Another very simple method is also 
practised in France; a few quarts are 
drawn from a barrel of excellent vinegar, 
and an equal quantity of very-clear white 
wine is put into the barrel, close the bung 
lightly, and keep it in a place where the 
heat is) moderate and regular. In a 
month’s time draw off the same quan- 
tity as above, and pour in an equal por- 
tion of white wine. <A barrel of good 
vinegar will thus afford a constant sup- 
ply for a length of time without leaving 
the slightest deposit. 

Vinecar in Balls. — Gather bramble 
berries when half ripe, dry them, and 
then beat them to a powder ; make it up 
into balls with strong white vinegar, 
abeut the size of nuts; dry them very 
dry, and keep them in boxes; when 
wanted, take some wine, or a little stale 
beer, dissolve a ball in it, and’ then make 
use of it. 

- Vinecar Printannier.*-Teke tarragon, 


( 498), 
















VIO 


savory, civet, shalot and garlic, of each 
three ounces, a handful of mint and balm 
tops; dry them all well, and put them 
intoa jar with two gallons of the best 
‘vinegar ; cover the jar, and place it 
where it will be exposed to the sun fora 
fortnight; then draw it off, press the 
dregs well, filter and bottle it. Cork the 
bottles tight. 3 
VIOLETS Candied. — Pick off the 
green stalks from some double violets 5 
boil some sugar to sougié; putin the vio- 
lets, and keep them in till the sugar again 
boils to souglé; then rub the sugar against 
, the sides of the pan until it is white; stir 
all together till the sugar leaves the 
| violets, and then sift and dry them. 
Viotets to Rock Candy. — Pick the 
| leaves eff the violets ; then boil some of 
the best, and finest sugar to sowflé, pour 
_it into-a candying-pan made of tin, in the 
| form of a dripping- pan, about three inches 
|} deep; then strew the violet leaves as 
| thick as possible on the top, and put it 
_ into a hot stove, in which let it remain 
'for ten days; when it is hard candied, 
| break a hole in one corner of it, and drain 
, off all the syrup ; break it out, and place 
/it in heaps upon a tin to dry ina stove. 

VioLets, Conserve of.*—Take a quar- 
ter of a pound of early violets, picked ; 
| bruise them ina mortar; boil two pounds 
| of sugar to cassé, take it off, put in the 
| pulp, and mix them together over the 
| fire, and when the sugar bubbles up, 
| pour the conserve into the moulds. 

_ Viotet Drops.*—Take a certain quan- 
tity of syrup of violets, which mix with 
an equal portion of water; use this mix- 
ture, and make your drops precisely as 
directed. You may, if you please, per- 
fume it with oil of violets, but that is not 
necessary, as the syrup imparts suffi- 
cient odour. (See Orange-flower Drops.) 

Viotet Drops.—Take the juice of six 
lemons, mix with it some finely sifted 
powdered sugar, and two spoonsful of 
essence of violets, and colour it of a fine 
blue colour; mix the whole well toge- 
ther, and dry it over the fire, the same 
as all others, and drop them off a knife 
on paper, the usual size of drops; let 
them stand till cold, be careful that your 
mixture is not too thin ; when the drops 
are cold, put them into papered boxes. 

Viotets, Marmalade of.*—Take three 
pounds of violets, and four pounds of su- 
gar, putthe former into a mortar and 
bruise them'to a pulp; in the meantime 
boil the sugar to souflé, then add the 
flowers; stir them together, add two 
pounds of apple marmalade, and when it 
has boiled up a few times, put the mar- 
malade into pots, ; 

Viotets; Syrup of.*—Pound very lightly 





a ee ee 


1 








WAF 


pestle, one pound of picked violets; warm 
gradually a glass, or earthenware vessel 
with asmall opening, into which put the 
pounded flowers, and pour aver them 
two pounds of boiling water; close the 
vessel hermetically, and place it on hot 
ashes, renewing them when necessary, 
to keep up an equal temperature for 
twelve hours; after that time pass the 
whole through a close cloth, squeezing it 
well; letit stand for halfan hour; then 
pour it off very carefully, that all the 


sediment may remain at the bottom; j| 


weigh it, and the above quantities will 
have yielded seventeen ounces; put into 
a matrass two pounds of crushed sugar 
with the infusion, close the matrass tight, 
and set it in the dain marie, over a mo- 
derate fire ; shake it occasionally to ac- 
celerate the dissolution of the sugar, and 
when perfectly dissolved, let the fire go 


When cold, pour the syrup into bottles. 

’ VOL AU VENT.*—Take three quar- 
ters ofa pound of puff-paste, give it six 
turns, ro]] it out toa tolerable thickress, 
and take care that it is equally thick all 
over ; lay avery thin piece of common 
paste on a baking tin, put the puff-paste 
on it, cut it to the size and shape of the 
dish itis to be served in; make a mark 
all round the top, at an inch and half 
from the edge, dorez, and decorate the 
sides and top according to taste, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. When done, take 
out the inside, as marked, replace it in 
the oven to dry a little, and then fill 
your Vol au vent with such ragodts or 
fruits as may be directed. 


W. 


WAFERS.* — Take a pint of good 
cream, half a pound of sifted flour, half a 
pound of powder sugar, and two drachms 

-of orange-flower water. Beat the cream 


with the flour, a little at a time, until: 


both are mixed perfectly smooth and free 
from lumps, then add the other articles ; 
and as much morecreamas will make the 
paste nearly as thin as milk; make the 
iron hot, dip a feather in some melted 
butter, and rub the iron over with it; 
put on the iron about a spoonful anda 
half of the paste, press them a little 
gently, and place the iren on a stove 5 
open the iron a little frequently, to see 
if it be done; when one side is bakeu, 


turn. the iron, and do the other. The } 


wafers should only be lightly celoured. 
Take them from the mould carefully 
with a knife. 

Warers, & I’ Allemande.*—Blanch a 
pound of sweet almonds, and cut them 
into very thin slices ; put them in a basin 


( 499 ) 
in 4 marble mortar, and with a wooden , 


of fresh ; 
hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, 


| eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar 


| lumps. 





WAL 


with three quarters of a pound of powder 
sugar, and two pinches of crisped orange~ 
flowers, mix them together with white of 
egg. Rub some wafer paper over with 


white wax, and a little sweet oil ; spread 
| the preparation over it as thin as pos- 
' sible, 
| onthe surface; put them into a rather 
/hot oven. When about half done, take 
| them out, cut them into squares, replace 
_ them in the ovena moment, and then roll 
‘them on a stick; as soon as they are cold, 


and strew chopped pistachios 


lay them on asieve, keep them covered. 
Warers, en Cornets.* —Three ounces 
of butter, the yolks of three eggs, a quart 
of water, three quarters of a pound of 
powder sugar, and the same of flour. 


_ Melt the butter, then put to it the eggs 
- (well beaten), sugar, flour, and the water, 
| a little at a time, to prevent any lumps. 
| Make your wafers as above directed, and 
whilst hot, twist them round like horns. 
out and the matrass cool gradually. | 


Warers (German).*—Take seventeen 


ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of 


good yeast, which make into a paste, 
with as much warm milk as will make it 


run from the spoon freely, without being 


too clear ; then put it intoa warm place. 
When it has risen well, add to it the 
yolks of fourteen eggs well beaten, the 
whites whipped toa snow, and the grated 
rind of two lemons. The whole being 
well mixed, pour over it seventeen ounces 
butter melted, but not too 


and put the preparation again into a 
warm place to rise a second time; when 
it has risen sufficiently, and your pan 
quite het, rub the latter with butter, fill 
it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, 
and fry your wafers; make both sides 
equally brown ; when done, sprinkle 
them with powder sugar (and cinnamon, 
if you like), and serve them hot. — - 

Be careful in taking out the paste to 
fill the pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge 
the spoon into the preparation, when not 
using it; the upper part of the paste 
should be taken off very gently, and the 
spoon laid across the top of the vessel ; if 
these precautions be not attended to, the 
good appearance of the wafers will be 
destroyed. 

Warers, @ Ul’ Italienne.*—Take eight 
a 
pound of flour, six ounces of cream, the 
same of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, 
and the rind of a lemon grated. Beat 
the eggs with the sugar and flour first; 
then add the cream, miik, and other 
materials, by degrees; mix them well, 
and take care there are not the slightest 
Make the wafers as directed. 

WALNUTS, in Brandy.*—Take your 
walnuts for this purpose, when suffi- 
ciently young for a pin to penetrate 


WAL 


them; let them be fresh gathered; peel 
and throw them into cold water; then 
boil them in some water, with a small 
quantity of alum, and the juice of a lemon 
to prevent their turning black. When 
they are enough done, put them again 
into cold water. Boil some clarified 
sugar to pedet lissé, and (having previ- 
ously drained) pour this syrup over the 
walnuts ; repeat this operation three 
succeeding days; the last time, however, 
boil the sugar to /a nappe ; the following 
day draw. the fruit well, and then put it 
carefully into bottles; add to the syrup 
two thirds more brandy, strain the 
liqueur, and pour it to the walnuts. Cork 
the bottles tightly. 

Watnot Ketchup.*—Thoroughly well 
bruise one ftiundred and twenty young 
walnuts ; put tothem three quarters ofa 
pound of salt, and a quart of good wine 
vinegar ; stir them every day for a fort- 
night; then strain and squeeze the 
liquor from them through a cloth, and 
set it aside ; put to the husks half a pint 
of vinegar, and let it stand all night ; 
then strain and squeeze them as before, 
adding the liquor which is obtained from 
them to what was put aside the preced- 
ing day, and add to it one ounce and a 
quarter of whole black pepper, forty 
cloves, half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, 
or sliced, half an ounce of ginger, and 
five drachms of mace, and boil it for half 
an hour ; then strain it off from the spices, 
and bottle it for use. 

Watnut Ketchup, for Fish Sauce.— 
Take a quart of walnut pickle, add to it 
a quarter of a pound of anchovies, and 
three quarters of a pint of red port, and 
let it boil till reduced to one-third; then 
strain it, and when cold, putit into small 
bottles, and keep them closely corked. 

Watunuts of Marchpane.*— Take a 
piece of marchpane paste, into which 
work a little cinnamon, and bole armeni- 
eum (both in powder), but of the latter 
enly asmall quantity, as there should be 
but a very slight red tinge; when equally 
coloured, roll out the paste to the thick- 
ness of half an inch. Have ready. two 
moulds of pear-tree wood of two halves 
of a walnut shell, into which put small 
pieces ofthe paste ; press them down with 
the finger that the marks may be con- 
veyed to the paste; cut off all which 
comes above the edges of the mould, 
and then turn them out (the paste must 
be well sprinkled with flour, to prevent 
its sticking to the moulds); when you 
have as many walnut shells as you wish, 
place them the hollow side downwards,on 
paper; leave them thus for three or four 
davs, and then put them into a cool 
oven for a quarter of an hour; if put 


( 600°) 


WAL 
into too warm an oven the shells will 
burst, and be too deep coloured. Inthe 
meantime boil some sugar to a syrup, 
with a little water; when the sweet- 
meats are done, wash the outer part of 
them with this syrup, by means of a hair 
pencil; replace them in the oven @ 
minute to dry; then fill each shell with 
compote of apples, raspberries, or any 
other fruit; moisten the edges with gum, 
and stick them together. These imita- 
tive walnuts, if carefully done, bear a 
close resemblance to the real ones, are 
of a delicious flavour, and will keep a 
long time in a dry place. yo: 
Watnut Pickle. —Put a hundred of 
large double walnuts into a stone jar} 
take four ounces of black pepper, one 
ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of. 
ginger, one ounce of cloves, a pint of. 
mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, and. 
four handsful of salt; bruise the spice 
and mustard seed, and boil them in as, 
much vinegar as is sufficient to cover 
the walnuts; when cold, pour it over the: 
walnuts; in two days boil the pickle 
again, pour it to the walnuts immedi- 
ately, cover them close, and repeat this: 
for three days. is 4 
Waunut Pickle.*—Lay your walnuts 
in water, and change it every day for the 
space of three weeks to extract all the 
bitterness from them ; make a pickle 
with spice, salt, and vinegar ; let it boil 
a quarter of an hour, and pour over the 
walnuts. 
Watnuts, Preserved with Sugar.* — 
Gather the walnuts when they have at- 
tained their full size, but before they 
become hard, they should be in that state 
that a pin will penetrate them. Prick 
each walnut all over with a large pin, 
put them into cold water, and leave therm 
for two hours; then pour that’ water 
away, and fill the pan with fresh; let the 
walnuts remain thus for four days, 
changing the water every twenty-four 
hours, to take out all the bitterness. At 
the end of the time change tle water, 
and set them on the fire; as soon as they 
are soft, take them out carefully witha 
skimmer, put them again inte cold water, 
and leave them four or five days, chang- 
ing the water as before every twenty- 
four hours. At the expiration of that 
time place the walnuts in a large glazed 
pan. Then take the common sugar}; even 
the refuse of what has been clarified will 
be good enough; boil this with sume 
water, and run the syrup through a jelly 
bag; wash the pan that it was boiled in 
well, then put in the filtered syrup, and 
boil it to “ssé; let it stand, and when 
about half cold, pour it over the walnuts, 
and leave them; next day drain off the 








WAL 


syrup, boil it again, and when half cold, 
pour it on the fruit; repeat this every 
twenty-four hours during eight or nine 
days, increasing the degree daily, so 
that on the last day it may be at perlé ; 
a small quantity of coarse sugar should 
be added at every boiling, as the fruit 
ought to be covered with the syrup. On 
the ninth day, put.a few cloves and some 
cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty- 
four hours ; then cut each clove into four 
pieces, lengthwise ; cut the cinnamon 
also into bits about the same size, take 
the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick 
four pieces of clove, and as many of cin- 
_hamon, into every walnut; in the mean- 
while, beil the syrup to grand lissé ; and 
when half cold, pour it over the fruit and 
leave it; in twenty-four hours drain off 


the syrup, and set it on the fire for the 


last time; as soon as it begins to boil, 
put in the fruit, let them boil up together 
about a dozen times, and then take them 
from the fire. Make the bottles quite 
hot, put in the walnuts one by one, with 
a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they 
should be quite covered with it), and 
when cold, cork them tight, and tie a 
parchment over every one. 

These walnuts may be eaten imme- 
diately, or they will keep for ten years ; 
but, as in the course of time the fruit 
sucks up the syrup, they should be filled 
up,when required, with a syrup,made with 
coarse sugar, boiled with some water. 

Wawots (Ratafia of ).—This is gene- 
rally made with fresh ripe walnuts; when 
thoroughly cleansed and peeled, split 
two dozen of walnuts, with the shells, for 
the proportion of three quarts of brandy ; 
and let itinfuse in a cool place about a 
month, stirring the vessel now and then; 
then strain the brandy off, and put it 
into the vessel again, with a little cinna- 
mon, coriander, a few cloves, and two 


pounds of clarified sugar ; infuse this as | 


long again; then strain it as usual. It 
will be the better for keeping. 

WALNUTS, een of.*—Take a pound 
of very young walnuts; ifa pin will not 
pass through easily, they are too old; 
pound them well, and infuse them for 
six weeks in two quarts of brandy, with 
half a drachm of cinnamon, and eighteen 
grains of mace. At the end of that period, 
strain the infusion, and mix with it a 
pound of sugar, dissolved in half a pint of 
water; let it remain six weeks longer, 
and then filter, and bottle it. 

Watnut /Vine.—To every gallon of 
water, put two pounds of brown sugar, 
and a pound of honey, and boil them for 
half an hour; be careful to skim it clean. 
Put into a tub a handful of walnut leaves 


to-every gallon, and pour the liquor upon. 


( 501 ). 


WAT 


them}; let it stand all night, then take 
out the leaves, and put. in half a pint of 
yeast. Let it work fourteen days; beat 
it four or five times a day, to take off its 
Sweetness, and then stop up the cask. 
It should stand six months before it is 
used. 6 

WasTREFICHE.* — Prepare some par- 
sley roots and leaves, as directed for 
sauce pluche; cut the red part of car- 
rots as thin as possible ; cut also the rind 
of lemon, or bitter oranges; scald them 
all together for about five minutes, and 
then let them cool ; when cold, put them 
into a stewpan with some fish-broth; as 
soon as. done, add some butter, or vinegar 
sauce, stir it in, and use it as directed. 

WATER-CRESSES Stewed. — Pick 
and wash twelve bunches of water- 
cresses ; let them be boiled till they are 
half done, take them out, and drain and 
squeeze them quite dry; then chop and 
put them into a stewpan, add cullis, 
cream, salt, pepper, and a little flour, 
but only a small quantity of each}; let 
the whole stew gently ten minutes, and 
serve them to table with fried bread all 
round the dish. 

WATER Cordial.*—Infuse for a,week, 
the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, 
half an ounce of cinnamon, and four 
ounces of coriander seeds, crushed, in a 
gallon and a half of brandy. and a quart 
of water; then distil it. Dissolve three 
pounds and a half of sugar in an equal 
quantity of pure river water; mix it with 
your queur, filter, and bottle it. ; 
_ Water Imperial.—Put into alarge 
jug, or jar, two ounces of cream of tartar, 
with the juice of two lemons, and pour to 
these seven quarts of boiling water 5 
when cold, strain it through a very fine 
sieve, sweeten, and bottle it; it is fit for 
use on the following day. 

WATER Souchy.—Stew a few flounders, 
some parsley leaves, and roots, thirty 
pepper corns, anda quart of water, till 
the flounders are stewed to pieces: pulp 
them through @ sieve. Put the pulped 
fish into a stewpan, with the liquor they 
boiled in, some perch, tench, and some 
fresh leaves, and roots of parsley, and set 
it on the fire to simmer till all are done: 
then serve in a deep dish. Serve slices 
of bread and butter on a plate, to be 
eaten with the souchy. 

Water Souchy.—Thoroughly cleanse 
some perch, or flounders ; put them into 
a stewpan with some cold water (sufh- 
cient for broth), a very little white wine 
vinegar, and some salt; let them boil 
gently for a quarter of an hour, carefully 
skimming, serve them with the liquor 
they were boiled in ; add to it some pars 
sley roots, neatly cut, trimmed, and ready 


WHI 


boiled, and strew over parsley, boiled of 
a nice green, and serve bread and butter 
on @ plate, to be eaten with the souchy. 
ELCH Rabi:t.— Take a slice of 
bread, and toast it on both sides; toasta 
slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, 
lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with 
the salamander, rub some mustard over 
it, and serve as hot as possible. 
- Wecca Rabbit.*—Toast.as many slices 
of bread as you may require; cut some 
Gloucester cheese into dice, and put it 
into a saucepan with a very small quan- 
tity of water, a little black, or cayenne 
pepper; when the cheese is melted, 
spread it over the toasts, and colour it 
-with the salamander. 

WHEATEARS.—Pick them, cut off 
the pinions at the first joint, draw out 
the inside; turn the feet close to the 
legs, and entwine one in the other; then 
run along skewer through the middle of 
the bodies of as many as you intend serv- 
ing, and fasten them on the spit. 

WHEY.*—Put, a very small portion 
of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it 
stand by the side of the fire until turned ; 
then serve it in a dish, with sugar anda 
little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, 
or strain the liquor carefully from the 
curd, and serve quite clear. 

Wuey (Vinegar).—Put into some boil- 
ing milk as much vinegar as will make a 
small quantity quite clear; dilute it 
with hot water to an agreeable acid, and 
add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if 
you like it better, use lemon-juice, in- 
stead of vinegar. 

Wuey (/Viite /ine).—Pour as much 
good raisin wine into a pint of boiling 
new milk, as will completely turn it, and 
make it fook clear; let it boil up, then 
set the saucepan on one side till the 
curd subsides; it must not be stirred. 
Pour the whey off, and add to it halfa 
pint of boiling water, and a bit of loaf 
sugar. , 

WHITE Pot.—Add to apint of cream, 
four eggs, beat up with a little salt, some 
sliced nutmeg, and plenty of sugar 3 slice 
very thin the crumb of a small roll ; put 
it into a dish, and pour the cream, &c. 
over it; add a few sun raising, previously 
boiled, and a little sweet butter, and put 
it into a moderate oven to bake. 

Wuite Pot (to make).*—Beat up the 
yolks of eight, and the whites of four 
eggs, with two quarts of new milk, a little 
rose water, anutmeg, grated, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar; cut asmall roll 
into very thin slices, lay them in a dish, 
and pour the milk, &c. over them; put 
a bit of butter on the top, and set it in 
the oven; it will take half an hour baking. 

WHITINGS,—In choosing whitings, 


( 502 ) 


WHI 


be careful that the skin has a silvery ap- 
pearance, that the body is firnt, and the 
fins stiff; these are sure proofs of its 
freshness. sl 
_ Wartrines, a 1’ Anglaise.*—Put into a 
saucepan two spoonsful of oil, haifa lemon 
sliced. (the pips and rind taken off), salt, 
and pepper, two glasses of white wine, 
the same of water, and let them boil 
nearly a quarter of an hour; then put 
the whitings, properly cleaned, cook 
them in the above, and serve with a 
sauce made as follows: blaneh a clove of 
garlic, and beat it with the back of a 
knife, put it with parsley, shalots, and 
two glasses of champagne, into a stew- 
pan 3 let it boil five minutes, then add 
some butter, rolled in flour, salt, and 
pepper 3 stir it over the fire till smvoth, 
then serve. . 
Wuitines Borled. — Whitings should 
be boiled in the same manner as cod, 
haddock, or any other fish; serve with 
anchovy sauce, or ketchup, and buiter. 
Wuitines Broiled.—Wash the whit- 
ings in salt and water; dry them well 
with a cloth, flour them, lay them on the 
gridiron, and broil them overa very clear 
fire; serve with shrimp, or oyster sauce, 
Wuitines, Dried.—To dry whitings, 
you must choose the largest; take out 
the gills, eyes, and entrails, and cleanse 
the blood from the back bone. Wipe 
them very dry, and put salt into them, 
and into the sockets of the eyes; let them 
lay for a night on a board; then hang 
them upin a dry place, they will be fit 
for eating in three or four days; when 
wanted to be served, skin, and rub 
them over with egg, and strew them 
with bread-crumbs. Lay them before 
the fire, and baste them with butter until 
sufficiently brown; serve with egg sauce. 
Waritines, Fercemeat Balls.— Bone 
as neatly as possible either large or small 
whitings; scrape the flesh, and pound it 
in a mortar; boil some bread-crambs in 
cream, until the liquor is quite soaked ; 
then pour it into the mortar, add a good 
bit of butter, a little chopped parsley, 
half a shalot, salt, pepper, the yolks of 
three eggs, and the whites we!] beaten ; 
mix the whole well together, have a 
stewpan of stock on a brisk fire, and 
when it boils fast, add to it a glass of 
white wine; take a small quantity of the 
farce, form it into a ball, and put it into 
the stock, and so continue till all is used ; 
take care to turn them about; they re« 
quire but a few minutes boiling; take 
them out one by one, according as you 
threw them in, and lay them on asieve 
to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce, 
with a little lemon-juice. ( 
Wuartine Fried. —Cleanse, and skin 








WHI 


them, turn their tails into their mouths, 
securing them with a smal] skewer; do 
them all over with egg, and bread- 
crumbs, and fry them quickly in boiling 
lard. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp 
sauce, ina boat. 

Whitings are frequently served to gar- 
nish salmon and cod. 

Waitines, Fried.* — Take as many: 
whitings as you may require; cleanse, 
scale, and wipe them dry; then run them 
through the eyes with a skewer, soak 
them well in milk; flour, and fry them 
of a nice colour. Serve them on a nap- 

in. 

Waitines, with Herbs.—Cleanse, and 
skin them; cut off the heads, then put 
them between two dishes, the under one 
well rubbed with butter, and all sorts of 
sweet herbs, chopped fine, and strewed 
Over the fish, and let them simmer over 
hot ashes, put hot ashes also on the top ; 
turn the fish once or twice; when done, 
place them on a dish; pour the sauce 
and al! the sweet herbs over them. 

Wuitines Minced, a la Créme.—Take 
the fillets off the whitings, and toss them 
in egg, as directed in the receipt for 
Fillets of Whitings Fried ; then with 
your hands carefully separate the small 
flakes, putting them as you do them into 
a stewpan}; when all is done, pour over 
them a good cream sauce; when wanted 
to be served, toss it gently over a mode- 
rate fire, and put it in a dish; be careful 
not to use a spoon, as it will break the 
flakes, and spoil the looks of the dish. 

Wauitines, with Sauce.—Make a brine 
with salt and water, sprigs of parsley, 
shalots, bits of roots, and onions ; let the 
whole boil together for half an hour, 
Ahen strain it, and boil the whitings in it, 
adding one-third part of milk; when 
done, :drain them : make a sauce with a 
bit of butter, a little flour, two whole 
green shalots, pepper, and salt; make 
this tolerably thick with cream ; take out 
the shalots, and serve the rest over the 
whitings. 

Wairines (Fillets of) Fried.—Take 
the skin off very neatly from the fillets, 
eut' them in two, have ready an egg, 
beaten up with pepper, and salt ; toss the 
fillets in this, and a few minutes before 
serving, take them out of the egg, shake 
them in flour, fry them quick that they 
may not be greasy, lay them neatly 
round the dish, and serve a butter sauce, 
made very hot in the centre, with a 
squeeze of lemon-jitice, and a little glaze 
mice in it; garnish with sliced pars- 
ey. 

Writine (Fillets of) Grillée, with 
Sharp Sauce.—Cut the fillets, and toss 
them in egg, the same as in the receipt 


( 503 ) 


WIN 


for Fillets of Whitings Fried; shake 
them. in bread-crumbs, and as you do 
them, lay them on paper; have ready 
some clarified butter, dip them in, then 
bread them a second time, lay them on’ 
a gridiron, over aclear fire of wood ashes, 
broil them of a nice colour on each side, 
then arrange them neatly round a dish, 
and pour into the centre some consommeé, 
made very strong, add the juice of nearly: 
half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt’ 
mixed in it. 

WIDGEON.—They should be taken 
up with the gravy in, baste with butter, 
and sprinkle a little over them before 
they are taken up; pour a good gravy’ 
over them, and serve with shalot sauce 
in a boat. 

WinGeons, Collared.—Bone the wid- 
geons, cut them in halves, and marinate 
them for twelve hours in a little white 
wine, with cloves, mace. pepper, and 
salt; then take them out, dry them, sea- 
son them with pepper, and chopped 
sage; then dip them inegg, and lay them 
on their sides; add a couple of onions, 
chopped up; then roll them into collars, 
boil them in good stock, white wine, 
whole pepper, and mace; they must be 
kept in this pickle. 

WivGeon Hashed.—Half roast them 3 
when served to table, slice the breast, 
strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little 
red wine, and squeeze a little lemon- 
juice over; put some gravy to this, set: 
the plate over a lamp, and. let it remain 
over the lamp till done. 

WINE.* — The different methods of 
making English wines having already: 
been mentioned under the several arti- 
cles of which they are composed, little 
further need be said on the subject. Fhe 
following is a list of the fruits most com- 
monly used for making wines in thig 
country :— 

Gooseberry. 

Currant—red, white, and black. 

Cherry. 

Grape. 

Damson. 

Sloe. 

Strawberry. 

Raspberry. 

Mulberry. 

Blackberry. 

Elderberry. 

Grape, and the foreign fruits. 

Raisin. 
Orange. 

Lemon. 

Of these, the best, according to general 
opinion, are of our own fruits, the goose- 
berry,and currant; and of the others, the 
raisin, and orange. : , 

Quinces are sometimes made into 


Woo 


wine, but with little success; from the 
resemblance to the apple and pear, it is 
better adapted to the: making of cyder. 

The principal defect in the manufac- 
ture of British wines, is the great quan- 
tity of sugar generally employed. Ifa 
much larger proportion of fruit were used, 
the wine would not only possess a more 
decided. character, but be of a higher 
quality, and of a much more-wholesome 
nature, 

Wine (Madeira) Sauce.*—Take a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and a-preserved green 
lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a 
glass.of Madeira wine, and a little con- 
sommé, add an ounce of butter, some salt 
and nutmeg; set these on a very hot 
stove to boil fora quarter of an hour; 
then: take it: off, put in a quarter of a 
pound ef butter, set it again on the fire, 
stirring constantly till the butter is 
melted. ; 

WOODCOCKS.—The greatest possi- 
ble care should be taken, in picking of 
these birds, to handle them as little as 
possible, on account of the skin being so 
particularly tender, and when broken 
it spoils the beauty of the bird. When 
picked, cut off the pinions at the first 
joint, press the legs close to: the: side, 
through which, and the body, pierce the 
beak of the bird; then cross: the feet, 
and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. 
Woodeocks and snipes may be dressed 
according to the same rules. 

Woopcocxs.— Take a pound of. lean 


beef, cut it into pieces, and putit into a 


saucepan, with two quarts of water, an 
onion stuck with cloves, two blades of 
mace, and some whole pepper; boil all 
these together tillreduced to half; then 
strain it off into another saucepan : draw 
the woodeocks, and lay the trail in a 
plate ; put the wocdeccks: into the gravy, 
and let them boil in it fortwelve minutes; 
while they are boiling, mince the trail 
and liver very small; put them into a 
small saucepan, with a little mace; add 
four or five spoonsful of the gravy the 
woodcocks are boiled in; then take the 
crumb ofastale roll, rub it fine intoa 
dish placed before the fire,-and put to 
the trail, in the small saucepan, halfa 
pint of red port, a bit of butter, relled in 
flour, set it on the fire, and shake it 
round till the butter is melted; then put 
in the bread-crumbs, and shake. the 
saucepan round; lay the woodcocks in 
the dish, pour the savce over them, and 
serve. 

Woopcocks.—These are dressed much 
in the samme manner as woodcocks @ la 
Duchesse, only that truffles are added to 
the forcemeat. 

Wooncocks &@ la Duchesse.—Split six 


( 504 ) 


‘strain the purée, and keep it hot. 


woo 


woodcocks: down the back, and take out 
all the inside to make a farce, with two- 


| pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of: 


capers, parsley, shalots, and mushrooms,. 
all chopped very smal], and mixed with 
a good bit of butter, a little scraped ba- 
con, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, an 
salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew: 
them up close, and braise them with a 
few slices of veal, and one slice of ham 3° 
cover them with thin: slices: of bacon; 
adda glass anda halfof red wine, and: a 
few spoonsful of cullis: when done. 
strain, and skim the sauce, and thickem 
it with butter and flour. . 
Woopcocks Farced.— Split the wood- 
cocks at the back, take out all'the inside, 
oe ie it sae a ae scraped bacon, 
chopped parsley, shaiots, pepper, and’ 
salt; stuff the woodeocks with this, and’ 
sew them up; wrap them. in slices of 
bacon, and over that; paper; then put. 


them down to roast; serve’ with what 


sauce or ragout you think best.. : 
Wooncocks @ la Franeaise. — Pick, 
draw, and truss them; lard: their breasts 
with broad pieces of bacon; roast them, 
and serve them upon toasts dipped in 
verjuice. . 
Wooncocks Minced en Croustades.*— 


Take the meat trom some cold roasted 
woodeocks, clear away all the sinews and: 


skin, and mince it as fine as possible. 
Pound the intestines Seeley the gizzard) 
and remnants of the birds: 





Put a glass: 
of Champagne wine, and three shalots: 


we ee 


into a saucepan; set it on the fire,and. 


when it has boiled up a few times, add 
four ladlesful of reduced espagnole, a bit 


of glaze of game; boil these, and then put: — 


in the pounded meat; stir them well to- 
gether, taking care it does not boil 3 


nine heart-shaped crezztons, as usual (see 


Make 


Fillets en canapés), and when cleared out, ~ ; 


put the mince tothe purée, mix them to- 


gether with some butter, and then fill. 


the hearts with it, and dish them, the 
points inwards; lay a poached. egg on 
each, and serve them. _- 

Wooncocks in a Minute.*—Puta brace 
of woodcocks into afrying=pan, with some 
butter, shred shalots, grated nutmeg, 
salt, and pepper; set the pan on a fierce 


fire, and fry the: woodcocks lightly for: 


seven or eight minutes; then add the 
juice of two lemons, half a glass of white 
wine, and some raspings; and leave 
them on the fire till the sauce has boiled 
up once; then serve altogether. 
Wooncvck Pie (Cold). — When the 
woodcocks are picked, take out the en- 
trails, and put them aside, and truss the 
birds, as for roasting; flattem the breast- 
‘bone, and broil then over a clear char- 








woo 


coal fire; let them get cold, then lard 
them ali over, pound some bacon in a 
mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, 
pounded also, with two or three leaves of 
sweet basi! ; mince the entrails very fine, 
and mix them with the rest of the farce, 
raise the pie, lay some of the farce at 
the bottom of it, and put the rest into 
the woodcocks, lay them in the pie, put 
between them some pounded bacon, 
mixed with fresh butter, seasoned with 
a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay 
in a nice veal cutlet, and over that some 
slices of bacon, cut very thin; put on 
the cover, and set it in the oven furthree 
or four hours, according to the number 
of birds; serve cold. 

For another way of making Woodcock 
oo follow the directions given for Snzpe 

te. 

Wooncocks, Potted.—They are done 
in the same manner as pigeons are 
potted. 

Wooncocks Purée of, en Croutons.*— 
Take the meat and insides of three or 
four cold roasted woodcocks, and pound 
it with nearly a quarter of a pound of 
bacon, and some sweet herbs; put the 
bones and other bits ef the birds into a 
stewpan, with a glass cf white wine, 
some parsley leaves, a bay-leaf, a clove, 

two glasses of stock, and six dessert 
spoonsful of velouté, reduce these to 
half, rub the whole through a bolting 
cloth, and when cold, pour it over the 
pounded meat, and pass the purée through 
a Sieve, as usual; ifit will not pass 
easily, add a little conrsommé to it; put 
this purée into a saucepan, and keep it 
hot. Prepare some croutons as directed 
for fillets en canapés (only making them 
an inch and a half thick, and ofa pointed 
oval shape), aud when the middle is 
cleared away, fill the space with the 
_ purée, and serve the croutons. 

Woovcocks, ax Restaurant.* — Take 
a leash of woodcocks; take the trails 
from two of the finest, with which mince, 
and mix some calf’s liver, and stuff 
them; truss all three, and reast them ; 
when the bird which has the trail in, 
is about two thirds done, take it up, 
pound it, bones and all, and boil itin 
equal quantities of stock and red Bur- 
gundy, with salt, pepper, and shalots; 
when it has boiled half an hour, rub it 
through a sieve. and serve it in the dish 
with the roasted woodcocks. 

Woopcockts Roasted.—They should be 
roasted with a toist under to receive the 
trail, which must be served under them 
in the dish. Serve with melted butter, 
and gravy for sauce. 

Wooncocxs, Sa/mis of.*~Take three 
eold roasted woodcocks; cut them up, 


(505 ) 








woo 


trim the pieces, and put all the best 
parts into a stewpan; put the rem- 
nants into a mortar, with a pinch of pars- 
ley leaves, six shalots, a bay-leaf, garlic 
if liked, and pepper; pound these well, 
and put them into another stewpan, 
with a little melted butter ; set them on 
the fire for about ten minutes, then add 
a glass of white wine, three ladlesful of 
consommé, and six of espagnole, reduce 
this to half, rub it through a bolting 
sieve, and pour it over the woodcock 3. 
make the whole hot without boiling, and 
serve it with sippetsin the dish. 
Woopncock, Salmis de, Table of.*—Cut 
up the woodcock on the table, and put 
the pieces on a dish, which place ona 
stand, with a lamp under it; add pepper, 
salt, shred shalots, nearly a glass of white 
wine, the juice of three lemons, anda bit 
of butter ; strew raspings over, and boil 
slowly for ten minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Use spirits of wine for your lamp. 
Wooncock Savce.— Pound the bones 
and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put 
them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful 


of cullis, and two spoonsful of red port; 


reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, 
and then strain it; when strained, add 
pepper, salt, and the juice of two oranges. 

Wooncocks Stewed.—Slit them, but 
do not take out the insides ; fry them in 
melted bacon, just to brown them; then 
put them into a stewpan, with some good 
gravy, salt, pepper, and some mushroom 
powder; adda little lemon-juice, and let 
the whole stew gently till done. 

W oopncocks, en Surtowt.—Make aforce- 
meat with some veal, as much beef-suet, 


| chopped and beaten in a mortar, an equal 


quantity of crumbs of bread, witha little 
beaten mace, pepper, and salt, some 
parsley, and a few sweet herbs; mix all 
up with the yolk of egg; half roast your 
woodcocks; then lay some cf the force- 
meat round a small baking-dish ; chop 
the trail, and strew it all over the dish, . 
then lay in the woodcocks ; put into a 
stewpan, truffles, morels, and mush- 
rooms, a parboiled sweetbread cut into 
pieces; let them stew together, beat it 
up with a little white wine; and then 
put them to some good gravy, and keep 
stirring it until of a proper consistence; 
set it to cool, and then pour it over the 
woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard 


boiled eggs all about; work up the re- 
| mainder of the forcemeat, and roll] it out 


like paste, and lay over the birds sauce 
and eggs; close the edges, wash it over 
with yolks of eggs, and set it in the oven; 
it will take half an hour baking 3 serve it” 
to table very hot. 
Wooncocks (Tureen of).*— Take as 
cog phate Sheds as your tureen will re-’ 


Woo 


quire, take out the trails, and make them 
into a farce, with some pounded bacon, 
butter, sweet herbs, and anchovies ; stuff 
your birds with this farce, and place 
them in a braising-pan between slices of 
bacon and veal; moisten with half a glass 
of white wine; close the pan as tight as 
possible, and braise them for five hours 
over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into 
the ¢ureen, and strain the liquor over 
them. 

Wooncocks (Fillets of ) en Canapé.*— 
Take the fillets of two brace of woodcocks, 
put them into a tossing-pan, sprinkle 
pepper and salt, and pour some melted 
butter over them. ‘Then take the inside 
of the woodcecks, (except the gizzard), a 
piece of bacon the size of an egg, a little 
parsley, and shalot; chop these small, 
and mix with them pounded spice, pep- 
Ree and salt. Take some slices of bread 

alf an inch thick, and divide them into 
pieces rather larger, but the same shape 
as the fillets; make a mark round each 
about the eighth of an inch from the edge, 
and fry them of a clear gold colour in 
butter; when done, scoop out the part 
marked, and put into the space thus left 
some of the above furce, and either bake 
or broil the creutons for a quarter of an 
hour; in the mean time toss up the 
fillets, and when ready to serve, lay one 
on each of the croutons, and send them 
to table, with a sauce made as directed 
for the Fillets Sautés, with the addition 
of a bit of glaze. 

Woopcocks (Fillets of) & la Proven- 
ceaule.*—Prepare the fillets as directed for 
the Sauté; season them with pepper, 
salt, four spices, and cover them with 
cil; adda clove of gariic pounded, toss 
them up, and then keep them hot. Put 
some oil also to the remains of the birds, 
a clove of garlic, a pinch of parsley leaves, 
two cloves, six shalots, and a bay-leaf; 
when these have had a few turns, adda 
dessert-spoonful of flour, a glass of white 
wine, three of stock, and reduce the sauce 
to half, take off the fat, and strain it. 
Lay the fillets on a dish en couwronne, 
with a glazed crouton between each; put 
some lemon-peel, and juice, to the sauce, 
and pour it over. 

Wooncock (Fillets of ) Sautés.*—Take 
the fillets from three brace of woodcocks, 
cut them neatly, and put them into a 
tossing-pan, with salt, pepper, and alittle 
rosemary in powder; pour some melted 
butter over, and set them on a very brisk 
fire, turn them as soon as one side is 
done, and do not let them be done too 
much; then drain, and Jay them in a 
dish ex couronne, witha crouton between 
each fillet. Put the remnants of the birds 
into a stewpan, with half a glass of white 


iY 


( 506 ) 


YEL” 


wine, a bay-leaf,and aclove; sweat them 
down till reduced to a glaze, then ad 
another half glass of white wine, a glass 
of stock, six ladlesful of espagnole, and 
let these reduce to half; then strain and 
pour it over the fillets, (which should be 
kept hot), and serve. 
WORMWOOD Créme (Liqueur).*— 
Distil in the dacn-marie the zestes of two 
oranges, and half a pound of fresh gather- 
ed wormwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, 
which will produce nearly half the quan-. 
tity of kgueur. Dissolve four pounds of 
sugar in as many pints of filtered river 
water ; mix this syrup with the “Zgueur ; 


run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it.» _ 


Xe 


YEAST (To Make).—Boil for half an 
hour two quarts of water, thickened with 
about three spoonsful of fine flour, and 
sweetened with nearly half a pound of 
brown sugar; when almost cold, put it 
into a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh 
yeast; shake it well together, let it stand 
uncovered near the fire for a day, to fer- 
ment. There will be a thin liquor on the 
top, pour this off; shake the remainder, 
and cork it up for use. To make a half 
peck loaf you should use a quarter of a 
pint of the above. ; 

Yeast Dumplings.—Make a very light 
dough with yeast, the same as for bread, 
but with milk instead of water, add salt; 
set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, 
for half an hour, or an hour, te rise; in 
the mean time, set on the fire a large 
saucepan of hot water, and as soon as it 
boils, roll up the dough into small balls, 
and put them into the boiling water; 
keep them continually boiling for ten, 
minutes, then take them out, and serve. 
them immediately, with wine sauce over: 
them. To ascertain whether they are 
sufficiently boiled, stick a fork into one, 
and if it comes out clean, it is done. 
enough. 

Some think the best manner of eat- 
ing them is by dividing them from the 
top by tivo forks, as they become heavy 
by their own steam, and eat them im- 
mediately with meat, or sugar and but-- 
ter, or salt. 

YELLOW Glaze. * — Make a glaze, 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar 
in powder, the white of an egg, to which 
add by degrees as much lemon-juice as 
may be necessary; when sufficiently 
beaten up, (and the longer it is beaten 
the whiter it will be), add to it a small 


quantity of infusion of saffron, strained, » 


and the yellow rind of one or two lemons. 
grated on a piece of sugar, scraped olf 


“& 








et ae | 





YOR 


and pounded; take care, however, not 
to put too much of the latter, lest the 
glaze should be bitter. 

YORKSHIRE Pudding.*— Mix four 
spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk 
and one egy well beaten, add a spoonful 
of salt, and a little ginger grated. But- 
ter the pan, and put in the mixture; 
when browned. by baking under the 
meat, turn the otherside upwards, that 


( 507 ) 


ZES 


that may be browned also, It should 
be made in a square pan, and served to 
table cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon 
adish. The richness of the pudding is 
increased according to the number of 
eggs you may choose to put in. 
ZESTS.—Zest (a term of art, used by 
confectioners) is the peel of oranges, le- 
mons, or citrons, cut from top to bottom, 
in small slips or zests, asthin as possible. 


2X 


ko 


| EXPLANATION 
Of ‘some of the Terms made use of in the foregoing Pages. 


Atelets—Small silver skewers. 

Baba—A French sweet veast cake. 

Bain- Marie—See the Dicrionany. 

Bouquet--A bunch of parsley and scallions tied up to put in soups, &c. 

Bay 2g anil or Assaisonné—The same, with the addition of cloves and arama- 

ic herbs. ; 

Bourguignote—A ragott of truffles. 

Braise—See DicrTionary. 

~ Brioche—A French yeast cake. 

Buisson (en)—A whimsical method of dressing up pastry, &c. 

Capilotade—A common hash of poultry. 

Civet—A hash of game or wild fowl. 

Compiegne—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, &c. &c. 

Compote—A fine mixed ragofit to garnish white poultry, &c.; also a method of 
stewing fruit with syrup for desserts. 

ompotier—A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the 
compote. 

Couronne (en)—To serve any prescribed articles on adish in the form of a crown. 

Court or short (to stew)—To reduce a sauce very thick. 

Croustade—Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, &c. 

Croutons—Bread cut in vsrious shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. 

Dorez—To wash pastry, &c. with yolk of egg well beaten. 

Dorure—Yolks of egus beaten well. ; 

Entrées—Are dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the 
dinner. 

Entremets—Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third courses. 

Financiére—An expensive, highly-flavoured, mixed ragoiit. 

“Yan—A. French custard. : 

Glaze, (to fall to a)—To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere tv the 
meat. 

Glaze—Is usually made from reduced consommé, or juices from the bottoms of 
braised white meats ; it should be preserved in jelly-pots. 

Glaze, Glace, or Ice—1s composed of white of egg beaten with powder-sugar, 

Godiveau—A common veal forcemeat. Red ¥ . 

Gras (aw)—This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. 

Gratin—A layer of some particular article is spread over a silver, or any other 
dish that will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns 
to it. C 

Hors d’ceeuvre—A small dish, served during the first course. 

Hatelets—The same as 4telets. ‘ 

Lard (to)—To stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c.; it is 
done by means of a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square, 
and hollow; the lardon is put into this hollow, the point is then inserted into 
co meat, and on being drawn out, leaves the lardon standing up in its proper 

ace. 

Larkons Tie pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of 
larding meat, &c. &c. ( ; 

Larding-pin—An utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. 

Liaison—A finish with yolks of eggs and cream, for ragofits and sauces. 

Madeleines—Cakes made of the same composition as pound-cakes, 

Maigre (au)—Soups, &c. dressed without meat. 

Marinade—A prepared pickle for meat, fish, &c. 





ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 








COOKERY TERMS EXPLAINED. 509 


Mask—To cover completely. 7" ? Cr ee 

Nouiiles—An Italian paste, resembling macaroni; it is flat, instead of being in pipes. 

Panada—Bread soaked in milk, used principally for gwerelles and fine farces. 

Passer—To fry lightly. rm 

Pdté—A raised crust pie. ‘ 4 ; ; 

Poélé—A light braise for white meats. The difference between this and the braise 
is, that in the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so much 
done as in the latter. 

Potage~Another term for pels 

Purée—Any meat, fish, or other article, boiled to a pulp, and rubbed through a 
sieve. : 

Quenelles—A fine farce ; it is generally poached when used. 

Salmi—A_ highly-seasoned hash. 

Sauter—To fry very lightly. q Y 

Sabotiére, or Sorbetiere—A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moulds 
containing the substance to be frozen. 

Tammy—A silk sieve. : 

Tourner, or Turn—To stir a sauce; also to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and 

fruits, neatly. 
Tourte~A puff: paste pie. : ; j i 
Fanner—To take up sauce, or other liquid, ina spoon, and turn it over quickly. 


X 3 








SHOVEEVO | 


MOVIING 
VHA 
WVAUA 
SAINHAANOVIG 
MWIO0-HOVIG 
LOOY"T ANE 
’ qaagd 
(79)099) SNVAG 
(yIUa44]) SNV IG 
: SNVAG 
SHIMMAGUVA 
TAAUVA 
SOOVUVdSY 
SH NOHOLLUV 
SEOOINdV 
SI'Idd¥ 
(waa) ) SANOWTVY 


ARTICLES.IN SEASON. 





“uosnagy ue sz Spaonjd 52 92 yoryor 07 aprsoddo apngapy ay, uayar syUop ay) Sajouap * Yyst1apsp ay] 


510 





51] 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
eal 
S 
Q 
Z 
qQ 


¥ * | * | * * | * | % STA 


a | | a | af | pen | we a fg a 


* _ ee . : * (P41) HONG P 


| ee ee rt Ce ee ey 


* * * * * i * _SONTITHONG 


— | | | | | 
a | ee | | —— | 


* * ; bs SsyoOnd 


a | | a | ns | ae mn fa | 


* * * : STAYALLOG 


a | | | a | oS | | A | SS ”, 
eS, Eee, eae, ——_____ ea 


tis 


| | | | | 
Sioctististabcasiamieme i | | | a 


* * * _ *% * z SAVG 


| | | | 
—_———————— | — | | | ee ee eS 


* * * % : SINVYYNI | 


LTE AB, ate ree A METS A RES MREAES PES EERE, pT SEARS, REESE Ge TieMneletR FSS ssa) far a ad Pk ee ee 


* * * * * * . * YAEWNNOND 


see | eee | ee | | a | | | | | sf ff 


——— a Se ee ee ee Oe Ne Oe ee ae ee eee SAVYO 


—— | | — | SE ee | | | | NL | TS 


a a | =| | | | | | 


i aes teat pcm rae Gl fem cams See nS Whee = : Pano 
* % * * * # * * * % * : : SNAMOLHD = 


——— | | | | | | | | | 
ee 


* 
* * ‘ * : SLO XSQHO 
* 





ARTICLES IN SEASON. 
* 
* 
* 
* 


| | | | ee | | | | 


* * * mo + * * : : TAMA AD 


ee | | | — | -—- | - | SS! | — | 
a a 





[| | | | | |) | | | 


TS chs ee *_| | x | % AWATIO 
Pez | Rf | SUTMOTALTOVO 
* * : ‘ g§LoYuUuVvo 



































* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
%* 











20] a 799 | ‘gdagy |gsnSnpr| “Ayn | *aung |) -Aoyg |72udp \-younpg| “gag | sung 





Pee 





: | Ss RC es ~ SAANAINY'T 








ar * * * ie 2S (asnoH) AWWT 


— | ——— | — 


* * * * | * * (ssvty) FINY'T 


re 8 as Ss Se Ses Ris BOOS eee ene 8 OR epee EF 
: * | *. |-* | #-|-*_|—x "SM Id HO MOVE 
*K 


* 5 HSIGVUASUOH 


—$=—$—$—$—— 
i, fn | | fs | ee | | ae | re | 


* * 2 ; SONIWUAH 


wee 
ne | ner | eens | wee fe | | a | A | a a 


os = re % * * auVvVH 


a | en | ne | | | | a | | a | 


* *. % : SHOOdCaAVH 
zx : : SLANHAD 
= * * : SNOqDano 


* : : ASNOUD 
* : SHOKVONAAHO 


—_—__SS ee "mms Ee: nk ss ee en |) | | eS OOO) ns ) SS | | | | 


* * * * * % : - SHdVUoS 


———_——_—_—_—_—__—- en 
—_—_—S SoS OOOO sO OO | S| ee |[_ SS |S | eee 



































—_—_—_—_—_——————————s [8T... | | lO 1)’ e222: SS0Smns | S| OC OO - )):.nkn—nwnn en ss se 


* * ° * SNOIUAD 


es | ee | <n fer | V—_—_——-|—_ | | | ———__F sd ————— 


*% se * ; (uaaty ) SUA 


eS Serie ne | eS |S 
i | | rr | a | a Snel 
a 


* * * : * SSUaAD 


ARTICLES IN SEASON. 


a ee | ese SEY ee a 
—— ———— | 
—— ————$}| —__—_——_ 


* # * * * * * a * * * : : "_ SIMOd 
|e * | x * : SHUT GNNOTA 

"aoa * cle Ca . fda : SLYaNTA 
eee eee | : = SD 
SAUVACTAIA 


* . ~ “TONNaad 


a. — | ———————— 
a | sf as | a 3 | aac aA a —_—_——-—— 








a 9 "aon | °29Q. | *adag \asnSnp| Apne | caune | sAvpy \*peudp |younyy| “gag | cumr 


. 


ee | | ee | Se | mest ee | mentee | mene | ements | perenne 
i | fe 
—_—— | | | | | | | | | | LO 


ee, | | | —— | | | |S | | | | LS 
a: | 


* * * * * * * : : SUH TSAO 


— [OO OOS OO | | | | 
—_— | | | 
| 


x m x aaa SHONVUO 


ees | | | | | 
| | | eee 








——SS__  ———————_ —————=E=S>S>SPoI_—>eeeeE_=_———_— — —  esS=SO ee _ ns On —s—s— n— —— s_ ea ns — = OS | 
| a | ee | a | | RN | eR | a | , a ene 
_ | —_ $$ | | | | | Ss | | | as rere 
* * %* = . S.LON 
¥ 
a Eee) Ee ee ee ey eS a ene en 
——— | | | | | | | | | a ene ree ee a tee 


DS 
* * * * * * * * co 5 ¥ SWOOURSNW 
* 


—— | | | | | | | | 


a - E SHU TOSONW 


eee SS ee SS EE a 


eA SENS BOOTY MORON | oo: Shea RPO (ORL TN MRR : . LATION 
SAIMMATTON 


a | ts | er | eS |S | ee | a | ann | ne | ee | ena 
a | a | ES | ES | | | eS | pen | eee | seen | eninge | a Se St 


* * r : LNIW 


——————— | | | | | | | | | | ON 


ARTICLES IN SEASON. 
% 


eS | | | RS | | | a | ee | neta | inne | pe EEE 


* * 1 * : SUVIGUN 


ES | |S | | | a | cet | eet | nent | nee | np —EEEe 


* * * : 7 TAMA NOVA 


| re | ee | ne | a | ee | ome so | 
ee ee 


* * * * * ae * * * co a "YA TSHoT 


bopper ci i seer rae oh en retiree erry rel ‘ "LAUTAN 
ee a ee ae a * * * : SHON LIGAT 
SS * * x al : , SHaAT 
, ‘ : SHUVI 











un | |r | er | er | pee | a | ee | eee | pene 














a se ee | ee | | | 





"00g7 | “AON, | *29Q. | ‘gdagy 


ssnsnp| yng |raunge | hope | pede | younpr| -qag } une 








HOVOU 
qUuvanny 
SAIMNaddSVH 
SUHSIGVY 


—* * 








ee 








PERE OMS Re BEG CU TE RAE OE RO Mel a RON alias! Ml LE SWE a A a SEER “STONING ~ 
, epee ANTS 

SEATING 

SNA VUd 

') SHO.LV.LOd 
SAOLVIOd 
WuOd 
SWATH 
SHAAOTA 
eee ee pe ie en eer ee ee ee ee ee TOW 
SY TddV-ANId 
(awny,) SNOANTA 
SNORD Id 
1d 
SLNVSVSHd- 
- HOUT 
SVId 

* Suvdd 


— | | —— eee | inn hi RReee.:}«_"n«|'l ee 





as | | |S |S | a | a | RY |: | NT | RS | 
os 





ee | | | | fa | | S| RS | RY | RS | TT 
ee |S | | | | |S | | | 


es | | | i | | a | a | | 





| cs | ns | | | NY | a | RS | | | | sy ie 


rae fae ee SS | | | | | | | 


Boca FPR i | | | ee | | ES | |S | 





pee. a lgereedamaa oneal a a a a a a a a el rR |i RA A OER, ih SER fn 














ny | | | ee | a | ee | | ee | en | A, 





a | | a | a | 











ee, nn pe | | | a | | 
% pSe ee 


~~ SHHOVUd | 















































ee oh ee a ee NORRIS 
* * % * * | SAIUMAATMVULS 
% * % x *% edt, Geer oer SLOAOUdS 


ef a fl i 


SLVUds 
HOVNIdS 
 TAUTOS 
~  SATOS 


_—_— | 








———— 
Say 








i 





aLV MS 
SdVudO NVIWAIS - 


= eo 


SdWIUHS 
SETS SSR Se eney pee en & ee WEREa is co OR 3 le rmues Gimeleetend erseaces SLOTVHS 


% % : VUGNOZ ONS. 


x x * : : - SAOAYVS 


ee [penne ee 


















































Ga fe fa fe fs | | 


. ARTICLES EN SEASON. 


! = i 
—_——— | $$ | | fl | | | 
ee 


* * * : * tee AMISIVS 
. LAOUWL NOWTVS. 


a a 


























a | | | eS | |S | | 


ROO (bras Ramen PUM lr SE a ee cea Rinaapeig sdasena "* NOW'TIVS 
ies ss Bie Soe *% (qows) GV TIVS 
| x * x * * * avTIVS 


a ef | ef ff | eee 


eee Dee eR Se ee ee ioe! Renn! tenes! aaa 


ydagy ysninp|*hyne | -oun'r 








ARTICLES IN SEASON. 


516 





‘LAZU LS"“LAATA ‘LUN00-S. NOSNHOL “Q9 GNV TTAIMOVHS 





a a | J 


ff | ee | 


(| | | | 


| | | I Ee 


—— | 


*NOCGNOT 


as SS 


iT | aS fs aos 





. 5! SLON'IVA 
& : (20@:)) NOSINAA 


= 


* - t. (yong) NOSINTA 


_— Se OS OO | | 


¥. % * 2 sd Aes 


mf lL | ee 





———— | ff | | LL | | LL. 


ie re Oe ef | ee eee 


See Oo | | | ef fp ee ff | LL 


ydag snbnp| -hyne | -aune | shop 


% * * * % * : * + LORNA 
* * x x Nic Aereingh STATIOWL 
LOOWL 





















































dp |-youwyr| -qag | cune 














— 


NEW WORKS ™ 
PRINTED FOR _ 


“HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY, 
NEW BURLINGTON STREET. ¥ 


THE FOOTMAN’S DIRECTORY, and BUT- 
LER'S REMEMRANCER. : By Tuomas Cosnert. New Edition, 
with considerable additions and improvements. Price only 4s, 6d. 

-“€ The Footman’s Directory, or, Butler’s Remembrancer, contains a great 
deal of valuable information for the class of persons to whom it is addressed.”? 


FRUITS AND FLOWERS, 
Seconp Eprtion, corrected and enlarged, in small gvo., 
with six coloured Plates, price 5s. 6d. boards, 


1. THE FLORIST’S MANUAL, or HINTS for the 
Construction of a GAY FLOWER GARDEN, with Directions for 
preventing the Depredations of Insects. By the Authoress of “ Bo- 
ey Dialogues,’ and “ Sketches of the Physiology of Vegetable 

e.? 

2. A HISTORICAL AND BOTANICAL ACCOUNT OF 

Fiuits known in GREAT BRITAIN, with Directions for their 
Culture. By Henry Puixiirs, F.H.S. Tuirp Epirion, enlarged. 
8vo. 10s, 6d. 


+” 


Also, by the same Author, 
3. HISTORY OF CULTIVATED VEGETABLES, ‘comprising 
their Botanical, Medicinal, Edible, and Chemical Qualities, Natural 
History, &c. Seconp EpirTio0n, in 2 vols, 8vo. ” 


PRACTICAL ECONOMY; or, the Application of 
Modern Discoveries to the Purposes of Domestic Life. New edition, 
with a copious Index, 12mo. 8s, 6d. 

“ This work will be found to contain a variety of new and useful informa- 
tion, calculated at once to increase our comforts and diminish our expenses.?’ 
New Monthly Magazine. 


THE TRAVELLER'S ORACLE; or, MAXIMS 


for LOCOMOTION. By WILLIAM KITCHINER, M.D., Author 
of the “ Cook’s Oracle,’ &c. &c. Third Edition. In one volume 


small 8Vv0. 75. 6d. 





*¢ Mirth and motion prolong life.” 
“ These two volumes abound in practical instruction of a rare and useful 
kind.”’ . " 


THE HORSE AND CARRIAGE ORACLE; con- 
taining Rules for Purchasing and Keeping, or Jobbing Horses and 
Carriages, in the easiest and most economical manner, with accurate 
Estimates of every expense occasioned thereby. Also an easy plan for, 
ascertaining every Hackney Coach Fare. By JOHN JERVIS, an‘ 
Old Coachman. The whole Revised by Witt1am Kitcuiner, M.D., 
forming the second Volume of the Traveller’s Oracle. The third 
Edition. In one volume small 8vo. 7s. 6d. 


% 


te 


New Works p inited for H. Colbeirn and R. agai 
URKE’S. OFFICIAL KALENDAR FOR 1830; 


AN J LPHABETICAL Recister of the Purric InstiruTions, and Purl 
Funcrronaries, Ecclesiastic, Civil, and Military, of the British Em- 
PIKE, including its CoLonraL and Forrien DrrENpENcIEs. With cir- . 
cumstantial Details of the Soverzicn Hovses of Europe, particular-— 
izing the present Members of each Family, &c. &c.. By JOHN 
BURKE, Esq. Author of a General and Heraldic Dictionary of the 
Peerage and Baronetage, &c. &c. In 8vo. neatly bound. 10s. 6d. 


BURKE'S DICTIONARY of the PEERAGE and 
BARONETAGE of the BRITISH EMPIRE. A New and Revised 
Edition (completed to the present period), price 35s. bound. 


THE ART of PRESERVING the SIGHT unim- 
paired to extreme Old Age, and of re-establishing and strengthening 
_ it when it becomes weak : with Observations on the Inconveniences and 
Dangers arising from the use of Common Spectacles, &c, &c. B 
an Expertrncep Ocutist. The fifth edition, augmented and im- 
proved, 5s. 6d.. 


_ ON THE CURATIVE INFLUENCE OF THE 
SOUTHERN COAST OF ENGL D. By Dr. HARWOOD. 
1 vol. small 8vo. 9s. 6d. 

xe An instructive and very useful work. Dr. Harwood’s observations on the 
diseases in which a residence on the coast is most beneficial, ought to be read 
by every father of a family.”-—New Times. 


THE ART of PRESERVING the FEET; or 
Practical Instructions for the Prevention and Cure of Corns, Bunnions, 
Callosities, Chilblains, &c. with Observations on the Dangers arising 
from improper treatment, Advice to Pedestrians, &c. To which are 
added, Directions for the better Management of the Hands and Nails. 
By an ‘EXPERIENCED Cutropopist. Second edition, in 1 vol. 12mo. 
price 5s. 6d. 

“ach page of this work will be found to contain some useful information.’’— 
Gazette of Health. 


AN ESSAY on Warm, Cold and Vapour BATHING, 
with Observations on Sea Bathing, Bilious Liver Complaints, and 
Dropsy. By Sir Artour Crarxz, M.D. &c, Fifth edition im- 
proved. 5s. 6d. 

“¢ This work will be found to contain more useful instruction and more 


valuable practical remarks than any that has appeared on the i anipti — 
mavetie of Health. 





Also, by the same Author, 
THE MOTHER'S’ MEDICAL ASSISTANT. 


Containing Practical Instructions for the Prevention and Treatment 
of the Diseases of Infants and Children. 1 vol. 4s. 6d. 


AN ESSAY on DISEASES of THE SKIN. Con- 


taining Practical Observations on Sulphureous Fumigations in the 
Cure of was Complaints, with several remarkable cases, 12mo. 
5s. 6d. 


sd 





$e niags 8 Sr te 9 Dee ty meaner en eee RE epee mento pe aac 
* = Q i 
: 3 





LE La a nal ita tal ath it Sc agg mapas inet 





NT? eee 
eh au 





Teor 


thle 
Sorat ea 
Vi nAuhad % 


oni 


ee 
ee ee te 


ates 


srs 
fea 


i 


he 


fs 

: 

%, 
‘ 


os 


hm oe 
Fiboke ph sONt 


es 


bane) 
er 


fe A 


et 
gee 


has ‘Re ris 
otal, 


re 


ake 


vse 





