Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


Tat  fyjT.i; 


fA -. J.. 

{RADCUFFE  COLIEGE  UBRARY( 


WOMEN'S  ARCHIVES 

Txansfemd  from 

HARVARD  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

1960 


I. 


r 


»  THE 

COOK'S   ORACLE; 

CONTAINING 

RECEIPTS    FOR    PLAIN    COOKERY 

ON  THB 

MOST  ECONOMICAL  PLAN  FOR  PRIVATE  FAMILIES : 

ALSO 

THE  ART  OF  COMPOSING  THB  MOST  SIMPLK  AND 
MOST  HIGHLY  FINISHED 

3Stotj^s^  <Sxnbit%f  Sboupg,  Stances,  Sbtore  ^uces, 

AND  FLAVOURING  ESSENCES: 

PASTRY,  PRESERVES,  PUDDINGS,  PICKLES,  &c. 

CONTAINING  A|i«0 

A    COMPLETE    SYSTEM    OP    COOKERY 

FOR  CATHOLIC  FAMILIES. 

The  Quaniiiy  of  each  Article  is 

ACCURATELY  STATED  BT  WEIGHT  AND  MEASURE ; 

BEING  THE  RESULT  OF 

Actual  Sxperfments  * 

IN8TITUTBD  IN  THB  KITCHBN    09 

WILLIAM   KITCHINER,  M.D. 

AUTHOR  OF 

THB  AKT  of  INTIOOEATINO  LIFB  BT  FOOD  ; 

THB  HOUSBKBBPBB'g  LBDOBK  ; 

THB  BCONOMY  OF  THB  EYBS,  AMD  BULBS  FOB  GHOOSIITB 

AND  U8IK0  SPBCTACIiBS,  OPEBA  OLA88ES,  AND 

TBLB8G0PBS  ;  OBSBRYATIONS  ON  SINGING,  &«.,  AV1> 

BDITOB  OF  THB  NATIONAL,  AND 

8BA  BONGS  OF  BNQLAND. 


**  Misooit  utile  dulci. 


»> 


A  NEW  EDITION. 
I  LONDON: 

I       PRINTED  FOR  CADELL  AND  CO.  EDINBURGH ;  SlMPKIN 
AND  MARSHALL,  AND  G.  B.  WHITTAKER,  LONDON ; 
AND  JOHN  CUMMING,  DUBLIV. 
To  be  ha4  qf  all  Booksellers, 


L 


^827. 


1/ 


HARVARD  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

tRl.  CHEST  &ti  r{.  fi:?E^NOUeH 
ICPTfcMBtK  20,  1926 


V  ,r 


SI!ACKELL    AND   CO.,   JOHN^ON'S-COURT,    PLEBT-STREET. 


iJ 


V    ^ 


CONTENTS. 


Page 

Pabface y 

Introducton    ^ 1 

Culinary  Cariosities   ......a.'. ••...< *  24 

Invitations  to  Dinner    '. ....•  39 

Carving ^ • 39 

Friendly  Advice  to  Cooks  ^.. 43 

Table  of  Weights,  &c , 67 

RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 

< 

Chapter  1.  JBoiling 68 

Baking '. 76 

2.  Ro§sting,.. 78 

^3.  Frying 87 

4.  Broiling 90 

5.  Vegetables 92 

6.  Fish 96 

———7.  Broths  and  Soups 100 

8,  Gravies  and  Sauces 115 

9.  Made  Dishes 123 

Receipts .•••••. , .• 125 

I]    II       I   I  I    III. LI 

APPENDIX. 

Pastry,  Confectionary,  Preserves,  &c 421 

Bread,  &c 455 

Observations  on  Puddings  and  f  ies  ». 458 

Pidtles  , , 466 

Index , 473 

A  2 


r 


Just  Published^  Price  7s,  hoards, 
A  NEW  EDITION  OF 

THE  ART 

OF  INVIGORATINe  AND  PROLONGING 

LIFE, 

BY  FOOD,  CLOTHES,  AIR,  EXERCISE,  WINE,  SLEEP,  &c. 

*'  Glass,  will  last  as  long  as  Iron 
If  You  take  due  Care  of  it." 

ALSO 

PEPTIC  PRECEPTS, 

.    .  POINTIHO  OUT 

AGREEABLE  AKD  EFFECTUAL  METHODS 

TO  T&ByKlfT '  AND  KlBCABVB 

INDIGESTION, 

AND  TO 

REGULATS  AND  STRENGTHEN  THE  ACTION 

OF  THB 

.  JSTOSIACH  ANP  POWELS. 

Suaviter  in  modo.  forttter  in  le. 

__    .  I       >        II 

JO  WHICH  18   ADDEJI^ 

.    THE  PLBASURE  OF  MAKING  A  WILL* 

fioisooronatopus. 

JBt  WILLIAiMi  KITCHINER,  M.D. 

4^UTH0R    O^.Tnt./DO0jC».OAAChJLf 

'     THE  HOUSSKEEPBR^S  LEDGEB  $ 
THE  ECONOMV^OF  THB  EYES,  AND  RULES  FOR  CH008tN(» 
AND  USING  SPECTACLES,  OPERA  GLASSES,  AND 

telescopes:  observations  pN  s;nging,  <feo.  and 

EDITOR  OF  THE  LOTAL,  NATIONAL,  ANP  SEA 
SONGS  O^  ENGLAND. 

NBfT  SDITIOJ^. 


LONDON: 
PRINTED  K)K  GEO.  B.  WHITTAKER, 

AND  CADELL  AND  CO.   EDINBURGH. 

1827. 


r^ 


TTus  Whole  of  Dr.  KFTCHIJ^ERS  WORKS,  amiUting  of 
the  foUoiving,  may  be  had  ofaU  Booksellers  in  Town  and 
Country. 

Dedicated,  by  Permission,  to  the  King* 

The  LOYAL,  NATIONAL,  and  SEA  SONGS  of  ENGLAND,  /or 
One,  Two,  and  Three  Voices;  Selected  from  original Jtfanuscripts,  and 
early  printed  Copies,  in  the  Library  of  WiLLiiiM  Kitchikeb,  M.D. 
One  Volame  folio*    Price  21.  2«.  boards. 

Among  110  other  Compositions,  John  Butts  **  GOD  SAVE  THE 
KINGE,"  is  now  first  printed,  in  this  number ;  also  the  earliest  printed 
copy  of  ''  God  savb  thb  Kino,"  and  for  the  first  time  is  also  now 
publidied  a  Complete  Score  thereof  for  a  full  Bond,  for  Voioe^  and, 
Instraments. 

The  Songs  are  so  arranged,  that  they  may  be  sung  as  a  Solo, — a  Duet 
— or  a  Trio,    • 


ON  SINGING. 
In  ISmo.  Price  4s.  boards. 

OBSERVATIONS  on  VOCAL  MUSIC  and  SINGING,  and  Rules 
for  the  Accent  and  Emphhsis  of  Poetry,  which  will  ensure  the  Proper 
Pronunciation  and  Effective  Expression  of  the  Words. 

*^  The  finest  Cofaipositions  frequently  foil  of  producing  half  the  im- 
pression they  are  capable  of  making  on  the  Mind,  from  l^ing  sung  with 
an  injudicious  Emphasis,  or  a  false  Accent." — AtJTffon's  Observa- 

TIOKS, 

The  SEA  SONGS  of  CHARLES  DIBDIN;  with  a  MEMOIR  of 
his  LIFE  and  WRITINGS.  By  William  Kitchinbr,  MD.  This 
Work  comprises  An  Hundred  Sba  Songs,  <&c.  Price  One  Pound 
Twelve  ShiUings,  neatly  hall-bound. 


In  ISmo.  Price  7s.  in  boards, 

The  ECONOMY  of  the  ETES.  Precepts  for  the  Improvement  and 
Preservation  of  the  Sight;  and  Plain  Rules  which  will  enable  All  to 
Judge  exactly  when  and  what  Spectacles  are  best  calculated  for  their 
Eyes.    Observations  OH  Opera  Glasses  and  Theatres. 

"  Qui  Visum,  Vitam  dat.»^ 

In  I2mo.   Price  Os.  boards. 

the  ECONOMY  of  the  EYES.— Part  II.  Of  Telescopes;  being 
the  result  of  Thirty  Years*  experiments  with  Fifty-one  Telescopes,  of 
from  One  to  Nine  Inches  in  Diameter,  in  the  possession  of  William 
Kitchinbr,  M.D. 

To  which  are  added, 

An  Abstract  of  the  Practical  Parts  of  Sir  William  Hbrschell's 
Writings  on  Telescopes  and  Double  Stars,  <fec. ;  some  Observations 
thereon,  and  Original  Letters  from  Eminent  Opticians. 


lo  12mo.  Price  ft,  boaids,  the  Fifth  EditioD,  enlarged^  of 

The  ART  of  INVIGORATING  and  PROLONGING  LIFE,  by 

Food,  Clothes,  Air,  Exercise,  Wine,  Sleep,  &c.;  and  PEPTIC  PRE- 
CEPTS,  poiBting  out  agreeable  and   effectual  Methods  to  prevent 
and  relieve  Indigestion,  and  to  regulate  and  strengthen  the  action  of 
the  Stomach  and  Bowels;  to  which  is  added.  The  PLEASURE  of 
MAKING  a  WILL. 


In  8vo.  with  Ruled  Pages.  Price  3j.  half-bound. 

The  HOUSEKEEPER'S  LEDGER:  a  Plain  and  Easy  Plan  of 
keeping  Accurate  Accounts  of  the  Expenses  of  Housekeeping,  which^ 
yiiih  only 

ONE  HOUR'S  ATTENTION  IN  A  WEEK  ;       . 

Will  enable  you  to  balance  ail  such  Accounts  with  the  utmost  exact- 
ness:— an  acceptable  acquisition  to  All  who  admit  that 

ORDER  AND  ECONOMY 

ABB  THB  BASIS  OP 

COMFORT  AND  INDEPENDENCE. 


.<'  Let  thine  Eye  descend 


To  trace  with  patient  Industry  the  page 

Of  Incomb  and  Expense."  SRBNStoNE. 


In  the  PresSy  and  will  he  Published  in  March  next, 

The  TRAVELLER'S  ORACLE,  or  MAXIMS  for  LOCOMOTION, 
being  Prbcepts  for  promoting  the  Plbasubbs,  Hints  for  Prbsbrv- 
iNO  the  Health,  and  Estimates  of  the  Expenses  of  Persons 
Travelling  on  Foot,  on  Horseback, in  Stages,  in  Posv  Chaises, 
and  in  Private  Carriages. 


» 


*'  Mirth  and  motion  prolong  life. 

Also,  as  a  Companion, 

The  HORSE  and  CARRIAGE  KEEPER,  and  HACKNEY  COACH 
HIRER'S  ORACLE,  Containing  Rules  for  Purchasing  and  Keeping, 
or  Jobbing  Horses  and  Carriages,  in  the  .easiest  and  most  economical 
manner,  with  accurate  Estimates  of  every  expense  occasioned  thereby. 
Also  an  Easy  Plan  for  ascertaining  every  Hackney  Coach  Fare.  By 
JOHN  JERVIS,  an  Old  Coachman.  The  whole  Revised  by  WILLIAM 
KITCHINER,  M.D. 


' 


1 


PREFACE 


TO 


THE  THIRD  EDITION. 


Among  the  multitudes  of  causes  which  concur  to 
impair  Health,  and  produce  Disease,  the  most 
general  is  the  improper  quality  of  our  Food :  this, 
most  frequently,  arises  from  the  injudicious  manner 
in  which  it  is  prepared; — yet,  strange,  << passing 
strange,'^  this,  is  the  only  one,  for  which  a  remedy 
has  not  been  sought; — few  persons  bestow  half  so 
much  attention  on  the  preserv^ation  of  their  own 
Health,  as  they  daily  devote  to  that  of  their  Dogs 
and  Horses. 

The  observations  of  the  Guardians  of  Health 
respecting  Regimen,  &c.  have  formed  no  more  than 
a  Catalogue  of  those  articles  of  Food,  which  they 
have  considered  most  proper  for  particular  Con- 
stitutions. 

'Some  Medical  writers,  have  "  in  good  set  terms" 
warned  us  against  the  pernicious  effects  of  impro- 
per Diet;  but — not  One,  has  been  so  kind,  as  to 


Tat  ^Hr^'Xl 


Jradcuffe  comcE  ubrawI 

WOMEN'S  ARCHIVES 

Traiubrred  from 

HARVARD  COLLEGE  UBRARY 

1960 


Vlil  PREFACE. 

else  has— and  because  he  knew  not  how  he  could 
employ  some  leisure  hours  more  beneficially  for 
Mankind,  —  than  to  teach  them  to  combine  the 
«« utile''*  with  the  "  dwfce,"  and  to  increase  their 
Pleasures,  without  impairing  their  Health  or  im- 
poverishing  their  Fortune,  has  been  for  many  Years 
his  favourite  employment,  and  '^  The  Art  of  invi- 
gorating AND  PROLONGING   LiFE  BY  FOOD,*  &C. 

&C.''  and  this  Work,  have  insensibly  become  repo- 
sitories, for  whatever  Observations  he  has  made, 
which  he  thought  would  make  us—"  Live  happy, 
AND  Live  long  !  1 !" 

The  Editor  has  considered  the  Art  of  Cookery, 
not  merely  as  a  mechanical  operation,  fit  only  for 
working  Cooks — but  as  the  Analeptic  part  of  the 
Jrt  of  Physic. 

*^  How  best  the  fickle  faibric  to  support 
"  Of  mortal  many— in  healthful  body  how 
**  A  healthful  mind,  the  longest  to  maintain/* 

Armstrong. 

is  an  Occupation  neither  unbecoming  nor  un<' 
worthy.  Philosophers  of  the  highest  class: — such 
only,  can  comprehend  its  Importance, —  which 
amounts  to  no  less,  than  not  only  the  enjoyment 
of  the  present  moment^  but  the  more  precious 
advantage,  of  improving  and  preserving  Health, 

•  Published  by  Geo.  B,  Whittaker,  Ave-Maria  Lane;    and 
Cadell  and  Co.,  Edinburgh. 


PREFACE.  iz 

and  proloDgiog  Lifb^  which  depend,  on  dalj  re« 
plenishing  the  daily  waste  of  the  human  frame,  with 
materials  pregnant  with  Nutriment,  and  easy  of 
Digestion. 

If  Medicine  be  ranked  among  those  Arts  which 
dignify  their  Professors,  Cookery  may  lay  claim  ta 
an  equal,  if  not  a  superior  distinction  ; — to  prevent 
Diseases,  is  surely  a  more  advantageous  Art  to 
Mankind,  than  to  cure  them.  '^  Physicians  should 
be  good  Cooks,  at  least  in  theory." — Dr.  Man- 
BEVILLB  on  Hypochondriasis.^  p.  316. 

The  learned  Dr.  Arbuthnot  observes  in  page  S. 
of  the  preface  to  his  Essay  on  Aliment^  that  ^'  the 
choice  and  measure  of  the  materials  of  which  our 
Bo^  is  composed,  —  what  we  take  daily  by 
Pounds,  is  at  least  of  as  much  importance,  as  what 
we  take  seldom,  and  only  by  Grains  and 
spoonsful.**^ 

Those  in  whom  the  Organ  of  Taste  is  obtuse,-^ 
or  who  have  been  brought  up  in  the  happy  habit 
of  being  content  with  humble  fare, — whose  Health 
is  so  firm,  that  it  needs  no  artificial  adjustment; 
who  with  the  appetite  of  a  Cormorant,  have  the 
digestion  of  an  Ostrich,  and  eagerly  devour  what- 
ever is  set  before,  them,  without  asking,  any  ques* 
tions  about  what  it  is,  or  how  it  has  been  prepared^ 
may  perhaps  imagine  that  the  Editor  has  sometimes 


X  PREFACE. 

I 

been  rather  overmuch  refining  the  bosiness  of  the 
Kitchen. 

**  Where  Ignorance  is  bliss,— 'tis  Folly  to  be  wise." 

But,  as  few  are  so  fortunate,  as  to  be  trained  up 
to  understand  how  well  it  is  worth  their  while  td 
cultivate  such  habits  of  Spartan  forbearance,— we 
cannot  perform  our  duty  in  registering  wholesome 
precepts,  in  a  higher  degree^  than  by  disarming 
Luxury  of  its  sting,  and  making  the  refinements 
of  Modern  Cookery,  minister  not  merely  to  sensual 
gratification,  but  at  the  same  time  support  the 
substantial  excitement  of  *^  mens  sana,  in  corpore 
sano." 

Delicate  and  Nervous  Invalids^  who  have  unfor- 
tunately a  sensitive  palate,  and  have  been  accus^ 
tomed  to  a  luxurious  variety  of  savoury  Sauces, 
and  highly  seasoned  Viands. — Those  who  from  the 
infirmity  of  Age  are  become  incapable  of  correcting 
habits,  created  by  absurd  indulgence  in  Youth,  are 
entitled  to  some  consideration — and  for  their  sake, 
the  Elements  of  Opsology  are  explained  in  the 
most  intelligent  manner;  and  I  have  assisted  the 
Memory  of  young  Cooks,  by  annexing  to  each  Dish 
the  various  Sauces  which  usually  accompany  it, 
referring  to  their  Numbers  in  the  Work. 

Some  Idle  Ideots  have  remarked  to  the  Autl^or^ 


1 


PREFACE.  XI 

that  ^  there  are  really  so  maay  References  from 
one  Receipt  to  another,  that  it  is  exceedingly 
troublesome  indeed,  they  are  directed  sometimes  to 
tarn  to  half  a  dozen  Numbers" — this  is  quite  true — 
if  the  Author  had  not  adopted  this  plan  of  Re- 
ference—  his  Book,  to  be  equally  explicit,  must 
have  been  ten  times  as  big — bis  object  has  been  to 
give  as  much  information  as  possible  in  as  few- 
pages,  and  for  as  few  pence  as  possible. 

By  reducing  Culinary  operations  to  something 
like  a  Certainty,  Invalids  will  no  longer  be  en- 
tirely indebted  to  Chance,  whether  they  shall  re- 
cover and  Live  long,  and  comfortably — or,  speedily 
Die  of  Starvation  in  the  midst  of  Plenty. 

These  Rules  and  orders  for  the  Regulation  of 
the  business  of  the  Kitchen,  have  been  extremely 
beneficial  to  the  Editor's  own  Health  and  Comfort. 
— *He  hopes  they  will  be  equally  so  to  others; — 
they  will  help  those  who  enjoy  Health,  to  preserve 
it — teach  those  who  have  delicate  and  irritable 
Stomachs,  how  to  keep  them  in  good  temper — and 
with  a  little  discretion,  enable  them  to  indulge 
occasionally,  not  only  with  impunity,  but  with  ad- 
vantage, in  all  those  alimentary  pleasures  which  a 
rational  Epicure*  can  desire. 

There  is  no  Question  more  frequently  asked — or 

*  For  the  Editor's  definitioa  of  this  terra,  see  the  note  in  p.  4 
^f  the  following  Introduction. 


Xn  .     PREFACE* 

which  a  Medical  man  finds  more  difficulty  in  an- 
swering, to  the  satisfaction  of  himself  and  his 
Patient,  than — What  do  you  wish  me  to  eat  ? 

The  most  judicious  choice  of  Aliment  will  avail 
nothing,  unless  the  Culinary  preparation  of  it  be 
equally  judicious. — How  often  is  the  skill  of  a 
pains-taking  Physician  counteracted  by  want  of 
corresponding  attention  to  the  preparation  of  Food, 
and  the  poor  Patient,  instead  of  deriving  Nourisli- 
m.eut,  is  distressed  by  indigestion  ! 

PaUmentier,  in  his  Code  Pharmaceultquey  has 
given  a  chapter  on  the  preparation  of  Food — some 
of  the  following  Receipts,  are  offered  as  an  humble 
attempt  to  form  a  sort  of  Appendix  to  the 
Pharmacopceia,  and  like  pharmaceutic  prescrip- 
tions, they  are  precisely  adjusted  by  Weight  and 
Measure,  The  Author  of  a  Cookery  Book,  first 
published  in  1824,  has  claimed  this  act  of  Industry 
of  mine  as  his  own  original  invention— the  only 
notice  I  shall  take  of  his  pretensions  is  to  say,  that 
the  First  Edition  of  The  Cook'^  Oracle  a/ppewrei 
iw  1817.  -vv-al.  fcdxx  iSi^O^MM^  (fd-ctt^-L'-f^i^  '■■-.■<.. L-'^cc/ 

.  By  ordering  such  Receipts  of  the  Cook's 
*'^  Oracle  as  appear  adapted  to  the  case,  the  re- 
covery of  the  patient  and  the  credit  of  the  Phy- 
sician, as  far  as  relates  to  the  administration  of 
Aliment, — need  no  longer  depend  on  the  discretion 
of  the  Cook. — For  instance:  Mutton  Broth  (No* 


PREFACE*  Xin 

490  or  664) ;  Toast  and  Waier  (,No.  46S) ;  Water 
Gruel  (No.  672) ;  Beef  Tea  (No.  663) ;  and  Port- 
able Soup  (No.  252).  This  concentrated  Essence 
of  Meat — will  be  found  a  great  acquisition  to  the 
comfort  of  the  Army,  the  Navy,  the  Traveller,  and 
the  Invalid — by  dissolving  half  an  ounce  of  it  in 
half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  you  have  in  a  few  minutes, 
haif  a  Pint  of  good  Broth  for  three  halfpence. 
The  utility  of  such  accurate  and  precise  directions 
for  preparing  Food— is  to  Travellers  incalculable, 
for  by  translating  the  Receipt,  any  person  may 
prepare  what  is  desired  as  perfectly  as  a  good 
English  Cook. 

He  has  also  circumstantially  detailed,  the  easiest, 
least  expensive,  and  most  salubrious  methods  of 
preparing  those  highly  finished  Soups — Sauces — 
Ragouts — and  piquante  relishes,  which  the  most 
ingenious  ^^  Officers  of  the  Mouth,'^  have  invented 
for  the  amusement  of  thorough  bred  ^*  Grands 
Gourmands.^^ 

It  has  been  his  Aim,  to  render  Food  acceptable 
to  the  Palate,  without  being  expensive  to  the  Purse, 
or  offensive  to  the  Stomach — nourishing  without 
being  inflammatory,  and  savoury  without  being 
surfeiting,  constantly  endeavouring  to  bold  the 
balance  even,  between  the  agreeable  and  the  whble- 
some,  the  Epicure  and  the  Economist. 

He  has  not  presumed  to  recommend  one  Receipt 


Xiv  PREFACE. 

that  has  not  been  previously  and  repeatedly  prdved 
in  His  own  Kitchen — which  has  not  been  approved 
by  the  most  accomplished  Cooks,  and  has,  more- 
over, been  eaten  with  unanimous  applause  by  a 
Committee  of  Taste,  composed  of  some  of  the 
most  illustrious  Gastropholists  of  this  luxurious 
Metropolis. 

The  Editor  has  been  materially  assisted  by  Mr. 
Henry  Osborne,  the  excellent  Cook  to  the  late 
Sir  Joseph  Banks: — that  worthy  President  of  the 
Royal  Society,  was  so  sensible  of  the  importance 
of  the  subject  the  Editor  was  investigating,  that 
He  sent  his  .Cook  to  assist  him  in  his  arduous  task, 
and  many  of  the  Receipts  in  this  Edition,  are  much 
improved  by  his  suggestions  and  corrections.  See 
(No.  560.) 

TTiis  is  the  ofnly  English  Cookery  Book  which  has 
been  written  from  the  Real  Experiments  of  a 
Housekeeper,  for  the  benefit  of  Housekeepers,— 
which  the  reader  will  soon  perceive,  by  the  minute 
attention  that  has  been  employed  to  elucidate  and 
improve  the  Art  of  Plain  Cookery, — detailing 
many  particulars  and  precautions,  which  may  at 
first  appear  frivolous — but  which  experience  will 
prove  to  be  essential — to  teach  a  common  Cook 
how  to  provide,  and  to  prepare  common  Food — 
so  frugally,  and  so  perfectly,  that  the  plain  every 
day  Family  Fare  of  the  most  Economical  House- 


PREFACE.  XT 

KEEPER,  majj  with  scarcely  additional  expence,  or 
any  additional  trouble — be  a  satisfactory  Enter- 
tainment for  an  Epicure  or  an  Invalid. 

By  an  attentive  consideration  of  <^  THfi  Rudi- 
ments OF  Cookery/'  and  the  respective  Receipts^ 
the  most  ignorant  Novice  in  the  business  of  the 
Kitchen,  may  work  with  the  utmost  facility  and 
certainty  of  success,  and  soon  become  a  Good 
Cook. 

Will  all  the  other  Books  of  Cookery  that  ever 
were  printed  do  this? — To  give  his  readers  an 
opportunity  of  applying  the  test  of  comparison,  he 
has  given  a  list  of  upwards  of  Two  Hundred 
Cookery  Books,  which  he  patiently  pioneered 
through  before  he  set  about  recording  these  results 
of  his  own  Experiments ! ! ! 

Store  Sauces  and  many  articles  of  Domestic 
Comfort,  which  are  extravagantly  expensive  to 
purchase,  and  can  very  seldom  be  procured  genuine. 
He  has  given  plain  directions  how  to  prepare  at 
Home — of  infinitely  finer  .flavour,  and  considerably 
cheaper  than  they  can  be  obtained  ready-made: 
for  example. 

Mushroom  Catsup,  (No.  439.) 
Essence  of  Celery,  (No.  409.) 
Anchovy,  (No.  433.) 


XVI  PREFACE. 

Essence  of  Sweet  Herbs,  (No,  417<) 

—  '  Lemon  Peel,  {No.  408.) 

Savoury  Spice,  (No.  421,  and  457,  459, 

460.)  . 

Ginger,  (No.  411.) 


Cayenne  Pepper,  (No.  404.) 
Curry  Powder,  (No.  456.) 
EsHALLOT  Wine,  (No.  402.) 
Portable  Soup,  (No.  252.) 
Pickles,  &c.,  &c.,  &c.,  see  page  466. 

Thus,  the  table  of  the  most  Economical  Family, 
ioay  by  the  help  of  this  Book — be  entertained  with 
as  much  elegance,  as  that  of  a  Sovereign  Prince. 


PREFACE 


TO 


THE  SEVENTH  EDITION. 


Th£  whole  of  this  Work,  has,  a  Seventh  time^  been 
carefully  revised— ^but  this  last  time  I  have  found 
little  to  add,  and  little  to  alter. 

I  have  bestowed  as  much  attention  on  each  of 
the  500  Receipts — as  if  the  whole  merit  of  the 
Book  was  to  be  estimated,  entirely,  by  the  accuracy 
of  my  detail  of  One  particular  process* 

The  increasing  demand  for  <<  The  Cook's  Oracle,'' 
amounting  in  1823,  to  the  extraordinary  number  of 
upwards  of  15,000,  has  been  stimulus  enough  to 
excite  any  man  to  submit  lo  the  most  unremitting 
study;  and  the  Editor  has  felt  it  as  an  imperative 
duty  to  exert  himself  to  the  utmost  to  render  ^^  The 
Cook's  Oracle"  a  faithful  narrative  of  all  that  is 
known  of  the  various  subjects  it  professes  to  treat 

To  the  Fourth  Edition  were  added  One  Hun- 
dred  and  Thirty  Ney>.  BeceipU^  which  will  greatly 


^ 


XVlll  PREFACE. 

improve  the  Comfort  and  Economy  of  all,  especially 
of  Catholic  Families  ; — ^being  the  best  methods 
of  making 

Maigre  Gravy  Saups,  (No.  224.) 

Ditto  Pease,  (No.  217.) 

Ditto  Green  Pease,  (No.  217.) 

Various  Fish  Soups,  (No.  226.) 

All  Fried  Fish  in  Clarified  Butter,  (No. 
259.) 

Fresh  Salmon  Broiled,  (No.  163.) 

Ditto  Pickled,  (No.  161.) 

Carp  to  Stew,  (No.  168.) 

Potted  Lobster  or  Crab,  (No.  178.) 

Lobster  Patties,  (Appendix,  No.  27.) 

Stewed  Oysters,  (No.  182*.) 

Scolloped  Oysters,  (No.  182.) 

To  Stew  Fish  Maigrg,  (No.  168.) 

Fish  Pies,  (No.  168.) 

Forcemeat,  (No.  383.) 

Stewed  Eels,  (No.  164.) 

Maccaroni,  (No.  643.) 

Stewed  Onions,  (No.  137.) 

Omelettes  and  Various  Ways  of  Dressing 
Eggs  and  Warming  Cold  Fish,  p.  396. 

Potatoe  Pie,  (No.  116.) 

Cheese  and  Toast,  (No.  639.) 

Toasted,  (No.  640.) 

I  -  Buttered,  (No.  641.) 


PREFACE.  Xix 

Cheese  Pounded  or  Potted,  (No.  542.) 
Poached  Eggs,  (No.  487.) 
Puddings,  p.  458. 

Maigre  and  Savoury  Pasties,  p.  424. 
Maigre  and  Savoury  Patties,  p.  429. 

PjRESERVES,  p.  451. 

Tarts,  p.  431. 

Cakes,  p.  438. 
and  the  general  business  of 

The  Pastry  Cook  and  the  Baker,  p.  421. 
Also  an  easy  and  economical  Process  for  preparing 

Pickles,  p.  466. 

by  which  they  will  be  ready  in  a  fortnight,  and 
remain  good  for  Years. 

I  hope  that  in  these  New  Receipts,  the  quantities 
of  the  various  articles,  and  the  processes  for  com- 
pounding them,  are  described  so  accurately  and  so 
plainly,  that  the  most  inexperienced  person  may 
work  from  them: — but  do  not  vouch  for  all  these 
new  Receipts, — as  some  of  them  have  not  yet  been 
proved  in  my  own  Kitchen. 

WM.  KITCHINER. 
July  2d,  1823. 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  following  Receipts  are  not  a  mere  marrowless  collec- 
tion of  shreds  and  patches,  and  cuttings,  and  pastings, — but  a 
bond  fide  register  of  Practical  Facts, — accumulated  by  a  per-* 
severance  not  to  be  subdued  or  evaporated  by  the  igniferous 
terrors  of  a  Roasting  Fire  in  the  Dog-days, — in  defiance  of  the 
odoriferous  and  calefacient  tepeWenx^oi Rocuting, — Boilin^y^^ 
Frying, — sad  Broiling; — ^luoreover,  the  author  has  submitted 
to  a  labour  no  preceding  Cookery-Book-maker,  perhaps,  ever 
attempted  to  encounter, — having  eaim  each  Receipt  before 
he  set  it  down  in  his  book. 

They  have  all  been  heartily  welcomed  by  a  sufficiently  well 
educated  Palate,  and  a  rather  fastidious  Stomach ;— perhaps 
this  certificate  of  the  reception  of  the  respective  preparations — 
will  partly  apolc^tze  for  the  Book  containing  a  smaller  num- 
ber of  them  than  preceding  writers  on  this  gratifying  subject, 
have  transcribed — ^for  the  amusement  of  *'  every  man's  Mas- 
ter," the  STOMACH.* 

Numerous  as  are  the  Receipts  in  former  Books,  they  vary 
little  firom  each  other,  except  in  the  name  gi^n  to  them ; 
the  processes  of  Cookery  are  very  few, — ^I  have  endeavoured 
to  describe  each,  in  so  plain  and  circumstantial  a  manner,  as 
Ihope  will  be  easily  understood,  even  by  the  Amateur,  who 
is  unacquainted  with  the  practical  part  of  Culinary  concerns. 

Old  Housekeepers  may  think  I  have  been  tediously 
tninuteon  many  points  which  may  appear  trifling :— my  Pre- 
decessors seem  to  h$ve  considered  the  Rudiments  of  Cook- 
ery quite  unworthy  of  attention.    These  little  delicate  dis- 

*  "The  Stomach  if  the  Graod  Organ  of  the  humaD  system,  upon 
the  ittate  of  which,  all  the  powivs  and  feelingsof  the  iDdmdaaldepeod.'' 
— &ieHoNTiiR'B  Culiiur,  p.  13. 

**  The  faculty  the  Stomach  has  of  oommunicating  the  impressions 
made  by  the  various  sabstanoes  that  are  pnt  into  it,  is  such,  that  it  seems 
moB|L|ike  a  nervous  expansion  from  the  Brain,  than  a  mere  receptacle 
'  1.'* — Dr.  Watkbhouse's  Leeturt  on  Health,  p.  4. 

B 


.->*«^ 

'<:> 


2  INTRODUCTION. 

tinctions^  constitute  all  the  difference  between  a  common 
and  an  elegant  Table,  and  are  not  trifles  to  the  Young 
Housekeepers,  who  must  learn  them  either  from  the  com- 
munication of  others, — or  blunder  on  lill  their  own  slowly- 
accumulating  and  dear-bought  experience  teaches  them. 

A  wish  to  save  Time^  Trouble^  and  Money ^  to  inexpc" 
rienced  Housekeepers  and  Cooks^ — and  to  bring  the  enjoyments 
and  indulgences  of  the  Opulentwithin  reach  of  the  middle  Ranks 
of  Society, -^-wei^e  my  motives  for  publishing  this  book  ;— 
I  could  accomplish  it  only  by  supposing  the  Reader  (when 
he  firsts  opens  it,)  to  be  as  ignorant  of  Cookery,— «s  I  was 
when  I  first  thought  of  writing  on  the  subject.* 

I  have  done  my  best  to  contribute  to  the  comfort  of  my 
fellow-creatures; — ^by  a  careful  attention  to  the  directions 
herein  given,  the  most  ignorant  may  easily  learn  to  prepare 
Food,  not  only  in  an  agreeable  and  wholesome, — ^but  in  an 
elegant  and  economical  manner. 

This  task  seems  to  have  been  left  for  me,  and  I  have  en- 
deavoured to  collect  and  communicate  in  the  dearest  and 
most  intelligible  manner,  the  whole  of  the  heretofore  ab- 
struse Mysteries  of  the  Culinary  Art,  which  are  herein,  I 
hope,  so  plainly  developed,  that  the  most  inexperienced  student 
in  the  occult  Art  of  Cookery,  may  work  from  my  Receipts 
with  the  utmost  facility. 

I  was  perfectly  aware  of  the  extreme  difficulty  of  teaching 
those  who  are  entirely  unacquainted  with  the  subject,  and  df 
explaining  my  ideas  effectually  by  mere  Receipts,  to  those 
who  never  shook  hands  with  a  Stewpan. 

In  my  anxiety  to  be  readily  understood, — I  have  been  under 
the  necessity  of  occasionally  repeating  the  same  directions  in 
different  parts  of  the  book,  blit  I  would  rather  be  censured 

*  *'  De  toutes  les  Connaissances  n^cessaires  k  Pbumanit^  souffxante ; 
la  plus  agreable,  la  plus  importante  &  la  conversation  des  hommes,  et  k 
la  perp^tuit^  de  toutes  les  jouissances  de  la  nature,  c'est  la  parfaite  con- 
naissance  des  alimens  destip^^B  k  former  notre  constitutioD^  k  fortifier 
tons  nos  membres,  &  ranimer  ces  organes  destines  d  la  perfection  des 
sens,  et  "k  Itre  les  m^diateurs  des  talens,  de  I'esprit,  du  g^nie,  &c.  <&c. 

*'  C'est  du  sue  exprim^  de  nos  fluides  aiimentaires,  qu'est  form^  le 
tissu  de  notr^  fr^le  macbine;  c'est  au  cbyle  qui  en  provient,  que  notre 
sang,  nos  chairs,  nos  nerfs,  nos  organes,  et  tous  nos  sens,  doivent  leur 
existence  et  leir  sensibility.'' 


INTRODUCTION.  3 

for  T^tition  than  for  o1:)scurit)^,-^and  hope  not  to  be  accused 
of  Afi^tatibn,  while  my  intention  is  Perspicuity. 

Oar  neighbours  in  France,  are  so  justly  famous  for  their 
skill  in  the  affairs  of  the  Kitchen,  that  the  adage  says,  ^*  A9 
many  Frenchmen  as  many  Cooks  ;^^  surrounded  as  they  are 
by  a  profusion  of  the  most  delicious  Wines,  and  seducing 
Liqueurs  offering  every  temptation  to  render  drunkenness 
-delightful,  yet  a  tippling  Frenchman  is  a  ^^raraavis,*' 

They  know  how,  so  easily,  to  keep  Life  in  sufficient  re* 
pair  by  good  eating,  that  they  require  little  or  no  screwing 
up  with  liquid  Stimuli.— -This  accounts  for  that  **  toujours 
gaiy^  and  happy  equilibrium  of  the  animal  spirits  which 
they  enjoy  with  more  regularity  than  any  people : — ^their  elas- 
tic Stomachs,  unimpaired  by  Spirituous  Liquors,  digest  vi- 
^rously,  the  i«od  they  sagaciously  prepare  and  render  easily 
assimilable,  by  cooking  it  sufficiently, — wisely  contriving 
to  get  half  the  work  of  the  Stomach  done  by  Fire  and  Water, 
till— 

«  The  tender  morBels  on  the  palate  melt, 
**  And  all  Ite  force  of  Cookery  is  felt.'' 

See  Nos.  5  and  238,  &c. 

The  cardinal  virtues  of  Cookery,  "  cleanliness,  fru- 
gality, NOURISHMENT,  AND.  PALATEABLENSSS,'^   preside 

over  each  preparatipn ;  for  I  have  not  presumed  to  insert  a 
single  composition,  wilhout  previously  obtaining  the  *'  tm- 
primatur*^  of  an  enlightened  and  indefatigable  "  COMMIT- 
TEE OF  TASTE,''  (composed  of  thorough-bred  GRANDS 
GOURMANDS  of  the  first  magnitude,)  wiisse cordial  co-opera- 
tion I  cannot  too  hiehly  praise ;  and  here  do  I  most  gratefully 
record  the  unremitting  zeal  they  manifested  during  their  ar- 
duous progress  of  proving  the  respective  Recipes, — ^they  were 
so  truly  philosophically  and  disinterestedly  regardless  of  the 
wear  and  tear  of  teeth  and  stomach,  that  their  Labour— appear- 
ed a  Pleasure  to  them. — ^Their  laudable  perseverance  has  en- 
abled me  to  give  the  inexperienced  Amateur  an  unerring 
Guide  how  to  excite  as  mucn  pleasure  as  possible  on  the  Pa- 
late, and  occasion  as  little  trouble  as  possible  to  the  Principal 
Viscera,  and  has  hardly  been  exceeded  by  those  determined 
spirits  who  lately  in  the  Polar  expedition  braved  the  other 

B  2 


I 

I 


4  iKfTRODtTCTlON. 

extreme  of  temperature,  &c.  in  spite  of  Whales,  Bears,  Ice-' 
bergs,  and  Starvation. 

Every  attention  has  been  paid  in  directing  the  proportions 
of  the  following  Compositions,  not  merely  to  make  tnem  in  • 
viting  to  the  Appetite,  but  agreeable  and  usefiil  to  the  Sto- 
mach— ^nourishing  without  being  inflammatory,  and  savoury 
without  beins:  surfeiting. 

I  have  written  for  tiiose  who  make  Nourishment  the  chief 
end  of  Eating,*  and  do  not  desire  to  provoke  Appetite  be- 
yond the  powers  and  necessities  of  Nature;— proceeding, 
however,  on  the  purest  Epicurean  principles  of  indulging  the 

♦  I  wtsh  most  heartily  that  the  resforatire  process  was  performed  by 

05  poor  mortals,  in  as  easy  and  simple  a  manner,  as  it  is  in  **  tht  Cook" 
ing  Animals  in  the  Moonj"  who  ''  lose  do  time  at  tbeir  meals;  but 
open  tbeir  left  side,  and  place  the  whole  quantity  at  once  in  tbeir  sio- 
machs,  then  shut  it,  till  the  same  day  in  tbe  next  month,  for  they  nerer 
indulge  themselves  with  food  more  tban  twelve  times  in  a  year/'-— Sf^ 
Baron  Muncha ram's  TraveUf^,  188. 

Pleasing  the  Palate  is  the  main  end  in  most  books  of  Cookery,  bnt 
it  is  my  aim  to  blend  the  toothsome  voUh  the  vfflblesome ;  for,  after  aU, 
however  tbe  hale  Gourmand  may  at  first  differ  from  me  iiT  opinion, 
the  latter  is  the  chief  concern  ;  since  if  he  be  even  so  entirely  devoted 
to  the  pleasure  of  eatinc:,  as  to  think  of  no  other,  still  the  care  of  bis 
Health  become.-:  part  of  that ;  if  he  is  sk;k  he  cannot  relish  his  Food. 

''  Tbe  term  Gourmand  or  Epkhre  has  been^strangety  i^erverted,  it 
has  been  conceived  anonymous  with  a  Glutton,  *'n^  pour  la  dig9&- 
Hon,"  wbo  will  eat  as  longas  he  can  sit,  and  drink  longer  than  he  con 
stand,  nor  leave  bis  cup  while  he  can  lift  it ;  or  like  tbe  great  eater  of 
Kent  whom  FrLuiR  places  among  bis  Worthies,  and  tells  as  that  he 
did  eat  with  ease,  thiiitf  dozens  of  Pigeons  at  one  meal ;  at  afnotber, 
fmiHore  Rabbits  and  eighteen  Yards  of  Black-  Pudding,  London  Meft- 
sur» !  or  a  fastidious  Appetite  only  to  be  excited  by  fantastic  Dainties, 
as  the  brains  of  Peacocks  or  Parrots,  the  tongues  of  Thrushes  or  Night- 
ingab^s,  or  the  teats  of  a  lactiferous  Soiv, 

'*  In  the  acceptation  which  I  give  to  thetenn  Epicurv,  H  mwm  only 
the  person  who  has  goctd  sense  and  good  taste  enough  to  wish  to  have 
■!kU  food  cooked  according  to  scientific  {Hrindples;  that  is  to  say,  so  pre- 
pared that  the  palate  be  notoflfended — that  it  be  rendered  easy  of  solu- 
tion in  the  Stomach,  and  ultimately  contribute  to  Health  ;  exciting  him 
as  an  animal  to  the  vijeforotis  enjoyment  of  those  recreations  and  duties, 
physical  and  intellectual,  which  constitute  tbe  happiness  snd  dignity  of 
hi&nature."  Rwr  Ibis  illustration  I  am  indebted  to  my  scientific  friend 
Apictus  Ceelius,  Jun,  with  whose  erudite  observations  several  pages  of 
this  work  are  enriched,  to  which  I  have  aflized  \3a»  signature  A.  C,  Jun. 


INTUODUCTIOX. 


Palate,  as  far  as  it  can  be  done  without  injury  or  offence  to 
the  Stomach,  and  forbidding  *  nothing  but  wluit  is  absolutely 
unfriendly  to  Health. 


■"  That  which  is  not  good,  is  not  delidoos 


**  To  a  weU-governM  and  wise  appetite."— Miltov. 

This  is  l)y  no  means  so  difficult  a  task  as  some  gloomy  phi- 
losophers (uninitiated  in  Culinary  Science)  hare  tried  to  make 
the  world  believe— who  seem  to  have  delighted  in  persuading; 
you,  that  every  thing  that  is  Nice  must  be  noxious ; — and 
that  every  tbing  that  is  Nasty  is  wholesome. 

*^  How  charming  Is  DiTine  Philosophy^ 

**  Not  harsh,  and  crabbed,  as  duii  Ibois  supposCi 

''  But  musical  as  is  ApoUo's  lute, 

**  Aad  a  perpetual  feast  of  neoiar'd  sweets, 

**  Where  no  crude  surfeit  reigus."—  Milton. 

Worthy  William  Shakespeare  declared  he  never  found  a 
philosopher  who  could  endure  the  Tooth-ache  patiently, — the 
Editor  protests  that  he  has  not  yet  overtaken  one  who  did  not 
love  a  Feast. 


'*'  ''  Although  Air  is  more  immediately  necessary  to  life  than  Food, 
the  knowledge  of  the  latter  seems  of  more  importance ;  it  admits  oer- 
lainly  of  great  variety^  and  a  choice  is  more  frequently  in  oar  power.  A 
very  spare  and  simple  diet  has  commonly  been  recommended  as  mo«t 
eouducive  to  Health ;  but  it  would  be  more  beneficial  to  maiii^iud  if  we 
could  shew  them  that  a  pleasant  and  varied  diet  was  equally  consistent 
<with  health,  as  the  very  strict  regiiiten  of  Amurd,  or  the  Miller  of  Essex. 
These  and  other  abstemious  people  who,  having  experienced  the  great- 
jest  extremities  of  bad  health,  were  driven  to  temperance  as  their  last 
resource,  may  run  out  in  pruises  of  a  simple  diet ;  but  the  probability  ia^ 
that  nothing  but  the  dread  ol  former  sufferings  could  have  given  them 
the  resolution  to  persevere  in  so  strict  a  course  of  abstinence,  which 
persons  who  are  in  health  and  have  no  such  apprehension  could  not  be 
induced  to  uoderlake,  or,  if  they  did,  wuuld  not  long  continue. 

*<  In  all  case!> great  allowaoce  must  be  made  for  the  weakness  of  hu- 
man nature ;  the  desires  and  appt^tiies  of  mankind,  must,  to  a  certain 
degree,  be  gratified,  and  the  man  who  wishes  to  be  most  useful  willimi. 
tate  the  indulgent  Parent,  who,  whilst  he  endeavours  to  promote  the 
true  interests  of  his  ciiiidren,  allows  them  the  full  enjoyment  of  all  those 
ianooent  pleasures  which  they  take  delight  Id.  If  it  could  be  pointed 
out  lo  mankind  thai  some  articles  used  as  food  were  hurtl'ul,  while  others 
vece  in  their  nature  iuooceut,  and  that  the  latter  were  numerous,  va- 
hqus,  and  pleasant,  they  mi<^ht,  perhaps,  be  iuduced  to  forego  those 
which  were  hurtful,  and  coqfiue  themselves  to  those  which  were  innc- 
cent.'''"^i3e  Dl,  STiiRK's  Ej^perwients  oa  pint,  p.  S9  and  90, 


6  INTRODUCTION. 

Those  Cynkal  Slaves  who  are  so  silly  as  to  suppose  it  lui- 
becoming  a  wise  man  to  indulge  in  the  common  cojnforts  of 
Life  should  be  answered  in  the  words  of  the  French  philoso- 
pher. **  Hey — ^What,  do  you  Philosophers  eat  dainties  ?** 
said  a  gay  Marquess.  ^^  Do  you  thinks  ^  replied  Descartes, 
**  that  God  made  good  things  only  for  Fools  f** 

Every  individual,  who  is  not  perfectly  imbecile  and  void  of 
understanding,  is  an  Epicure  in  his  own  way — ^the  Epicures 
in  boiling  of  Potatoes  are  innumerable,  the  perfection  of  all 
enjo3rment,  depends  on  the  perfection  of  the  faculties  of  the 
Mind  and  Body,  therefore — the  Temperate  Man  is  the 
greatest  Epicure — and  the  only  true  Voluptuary, 

The  Pleasures  of  the  Table,  have  been  highly  ap- 
preciated and  carefully  cultivated  in  all  Countries  and  in  all 
Ages,* — and  in  spite  of  all  the  Stoics, — every  one  will  allow 
they  are  the  first  and  the  last  we  enjoy, — and  those  we  taste 
the  oftenest, — above  a  Thmisand  times  in  a  Year^  every  Year 
0four  Lives/ 

The  Stomach  is  the  mainspring  of  our  System, — ^if  it  be 
not  sufficiently  woimd  up  to  warm  the  Heart  and  support  the 
Circulation, — ^the  whole  business  of  Life  will,  in  proportion, 
be  ineflfectively  performed, — we  can  neiS^er  Think  with  pre- 
cision,— WdVi  with  vigour,— Stf  down  with  comfort, — or 
Sleep  with  tranquillity. 

There  would  be  no  difficulty  in  proving  that  it  influences 
(much  more  than  people  in  general  imagine)  all  our  actions  : 
—the  destiny  of  Nations  has  often  depended  upon  the  more 
or  less  laborious  digestion  of  a  Prime  Minister.f — See  a  very 
curious  anecdote  in  the  Memoirs  of  Count  Zinzendorff  ia 
Dodsley's  Annual  Register  for  1762.     3d  edition,  p.  32. 

The  philosopher  Pythagoras  seems  to  have  been  extremely 
nice  in  eating,  among  his  absolute  injunctions  to  his  disci- 
ples, he  commands  them  to  "  abstain  from  Beans/' 

This  ancient  Sage  has  been  imitated  by  the  learned  who 
have  discoursed  on  this  subject  since, — ^who  are  liberal  of  their 

*  See  a  curious  account  in  Codrs  Gastronomiqde,  p.  145,  and  in 
Anacharsis*  Travels,  RobiDson,  1796.  Vol.  ii.  p.  58,  and  Obs.  and  note 
under  No.  493. 

t  See  the  2d,  3d,  and  4th  pages  of  Sir  Wm.  Temflb'b  Essajf  on  the 
Cure  qf  the  Gout,  by  Moxa, 


INTRODUCTION.  7 

negative, — ^and  niggardly  of  their  positive  precepts — ^in  the 
ratio,  that  it  is  easier  to  tell  you  not  to  do  this,  than  to  teach 
you  how  to  do  that. 

Our  great  English  moralistDr.  S.  Johnson,  his  biographer 
Boswell  telJs  us,  "  was  a  man  of  very  nice  discernment  in  the 
science  of  Cookery,"  and  talked  of  good  eating  with  uncom- 
mon satisfaction.  *'  Some  people,"  said  he,  '*  have  a  foolish 
way  of  not  minding,  or  pretending  not  to  mind  what  they  eat ; 
for  my  part,  I  mind  ray  Belly  very  studiously  and  very  care- 
fully, and  I  look  upon  it  that  he  who  does  not  mind  his  Belly, 
will  hardly  mind  any  thing  else." 

The  Dr.  might  have  said,  cannot  mind  any  thing  else— ^ 
the  e^iergy  of  our  Brains  is  sadly  dependent  on  the  bekaviaur 
of  our  Bowels*— ^those  who  say,  'Tis  no  matter  what  we  eat 
or  what  we  drink, — may  as  well  say,  'Tis  no  matter  whether 
we  eat,  or  whether  we  drink. 

The  following  Anecdotes  I  copy  from  Boswell^s  Life  of 
Johnson. 

Johnson, — "  I  could  write  a  better  Book  of  Cookery  than 
has  ever  yet  been  written ; — it  should  be  a  book  on  philoso- 

Shical  principles. — I  would  tell  what  is  the  best  Butcher's 
[eat, — ^the  proper  seasons  of  different  Vegetables, — and  then, 
how  to  roast,  and  boil,  and  to  compound." 

Dilli/. — ^**  Mrs,  Glmse's  Cookery^  which  is  the  best,  was 
written  by  Dr.  Hill." 

Johnson, — "  Well,  Sir— this  shows  how  much  better  the 
subject    of  Cookery  t     may    be    treated    by   a    Philoso, 

*  "  He  that  would  have  a  clear  Head,  must  ha?e  a  clean  Stomach.'* 
^Dr.Cheynb  on  Healthy  8vo.  1724,  p.  34. 

"  It  is  sufficiently  manifest  how  much  aocomfortabie  feelings  of  the 
Bowels  affect  the  Nervous  System,  and  how  immediately  and  completely 
the  general  disorder  is  relieved  by  an  alvine  evacuation.''— p.  S3. 

'*  We  cannot  reasonably  expect  tranquillity  of  the  Nervous  System, 
whilst  there  is  disorder  of  the  digestive  organs.  As  we  can  perceive  no 
permanent  source  of  strength,  but  from  the  digestion  of  our  food,  it  be- 
comes important  on  this  account,  that  we  stiould  attend  to  its  quantity, 
quality,  and  the  periods  of  talcing  it,  with  a  view  to  ensure  its  proper 
digestion.'*— Abbrmethy'S  Sur.Obs.  8vo.  1817,  p.  65. 

t  *'  If  Science  can  really  contribute  to  the  happiness  of  mankind,  it 
must  be  in  this  department ;  the  real  comfort  of  the  majority  of  men  in 
this  country  is  sought  for  at  their  own  fire-side ;  how  desirable  does  it 
then  beooooe  to  give  every  inducement  to  be  at  home,  by  directing  all 


8  mTRODUCTIO?r. 

pher ;  * — ^but  you  shall  see  what  a  book  of  Cookery  I  shall 
make,  and  shall  agree  with  Mr.  Dilly  for  the  Copyriobt." 

Miss  Seward, — "  That  would  be  Hercules  with  the  distaff 
indeed !" — 

Johnson. — "  No,  Madam ;  Women  can  spin  very  th^U,— 
but  they  cannot  make  a  good  book  of  Cookery."  See  vol.  iii . 
p.  311. 

Mr.  B.  adds,  **  I  never  knew  a  man  who  relished  good  eat- 
ing more  than  he  did :  when  at  Table,  he  was  totally  ab- 
sorbed in  the  business  of  the  moment :  nor  would  he,  unless 

-         _        _      _  I  ■■  -  I        -     ■       r  iHM  ~ * 

the  means  of  Philosopbj  to  increase  Domestic  Happiness!''  — Svlvbb- 
ter'b  Philosophy  qf  Domestic  Rcofwmy,  4to.  1819,  p.  17. 

*  The  best  Books  of  Cookery  have  been  written  bj  PbysidaDS.-  Sir 
Kbkelmb  Digbt — Sir  Theodore  Ma  tern  e.— Seethe  last  quarter  of 
pajre  304  of  vol.  x.  of  the  Phil,  Trans,  for  1675.— Professor  Braolbt 
— Dr.  Hiiiii — Dr.  Lb  Cointb — Dr.  Hctntrr,  <fec. 

'<  To  understand  the  Theory  of  Cookery,  we  must  attend  to  the 
action  of  heat  upon  the  Tarious  constituents' of  alimentary  substances  as 
applied  directly  and  indirectly  through  the  medium  of  some  fluid,  in  the 
former  way  as  exemplified.*'  In  the  processes  of  Roasting  and  Boil- 
mo,  the  chief  constituents  of  animal  substances  undergo  the  following 
changes — the  Fibtine  is  corrugated,  the  Albumen  coagulated,  the  Geta' 
tine  and  (hmazome  rendered  moie  soluble  in  water,  the  Fat  liquefied, 
and  tbe  Water  CYaporated. 

''  If  the  heat  exceed  a  certain  degree,  the  surface  becomes  first  brown^ 
and  then  scorched.  In  consequence  of  these  changes,  the  musculer  fibre 
becomes  opaque,  shorter,  firmer,  and  drier;  the  tendons  less  opaque^ 
softer  and  gluey ;  the  fat  is  either  melted  out,  or  rendered  semi-tmns- 
parent.  Animal  fluids  become  more  transparent :  the  albumen  is  co- 
agulated and  separated,  and  they  dissolve  gelatine  and  osmaxome, 

**  Lastly,  and  what  is  the  most  important  change,  and  the  immediate 
object  of  all  Cookery,  the  meat  loses  the  vapid  nauseous  smell  and  taste 
peculiar  to  its  raw  state,  and  it  becomes  savoury  and  grateful. 

'*  Heat  applied  through  the  intervention  of  boiling  oil,  or  melted  fat, 
as  in  Frying,  produces  nearly  the  same  changes ;  as  tbe  heat  is  sufficient 
to  evaporate  tlie  water,  and  to  induce  a  degree  of  scorching. 

"  But  when  water  is  the  medium  through  which  heat  is  applied — as  in 
Boiling,  Stewing,  and  Baking,  the  effects  are  somewhat difl'erent,  as 
the  heat  never  exceeds  2120,  which  is  not  sufficient  to  commence  the 
process  of  browning  or  decomposition,  and  the  soluble  constituents  are 
removed,  by  being  dissolved  in  the  water,  forming  soup  or  broth ;  or,  if 
the  direct  contact  of  tbe  water  be  prevented,  tbey  are  dissolved  in  the 
juices  of  the  meat,  and  separate  in  the  form  ol'Oravy.*' 

Vide  Supplement  to  Encyclop,  Brit,  Edin.  vol.iv.  p.  344,  the  Article 
^'  Food,''  to  which  we  refer  our  reader  as  the  most  scientific  paper  on  the 
subject  we  have  seen. 


.INTAODUCTION.  9 

in  very  high  company,  say  one  word,  or  eyen  pay  the  least 
attentioQ  to  what  was  said  hy  others,  until  he  had  satisfied  his 
Appetite." 

The  peculiarities  of  his  Constitution  were  as  great  as  those 
of  his  Chaiacter: — Luxury  and  Intemperance  are  relative 
terms,  depending  on  otiier  circumstances  than  mere  quantity 
and  quality.  Nature  gave  him  an  excellent  Palate,  and  a 
craving  Appetite,  and  his  intense  Application  rendered  large 
supplies  of  nourishment  absolutely  necessary  to  recruit  his 
exhausted  spirits. 

The  fact  is,  this  great  Man  had  found  out,  that  Animal^ 
and  Intellectual  Vigour^*  are  muck  mare  entirely  dependent 
upon  each  other  than  is  commonly  understood;  especially,  in 
those  constitutions,  whose  digestive  and  cbylopoetic  organs 
are  capricious  aad  easily  put  out  of  tune,  or  absorb  the 
**  pabulum  vita*'  indolently  and  fti perfectly, — with  such,  it 
is  only  now  and  then  that  the  *^  sensorium commune'*  vibrates 
with  the  full  tone  of  accurately  considerative,  or  creative 
energy.  "  His  favourite  dainties  were,  a  1^  of  Pork  boiled 
till  it  dropped  from  the  bone,  a  veal  pie,  with  plums,  and 
sugar,  or  tne  outside  cut  of  a  salt  buttoclc  of  beef.  Witli  re- 
{rard  to  Drink^  his  liking  was  for  the  strbnt^est,  as  it  was  not 
the  Flavour^  but  tlie  Effect  that  he  desired"  Mr.  Smale's 
Account  in  Dr.  Johnson's  Journey  into  Wales,  1816, 
p.  174. 

Thus  does  the  Health  always,  and  very  often  the  Life 
•of  Invalids,  and  those  who  have  weak  and  infirm  Stomachs, 
depend  upon  the  care  and  skill  of  the  Cook.  Our  Fore- 
fathers were  so  sensible  of  this,  that  in  days  of  Yore  no  man 
otf  consequence  thought  of  making  a  day's  journey  without 
taking  his  '<  Magister  Coquorum"  with  him. 

The  rarity  of  this  talent  in  a  high  degree  is  so  well  under- 
stood, that  besides  very  considerable  pecuniary  compensation, 
fais  Majesty's  first  and  second  Cooks  f  are  now  Esquires  by 


•  **  Health,  Beauty,  Strength,  and  Spirits,  Rtid  I  might  add  all  thii 
fiicolties  of  the  Mind,  depend  upon  the  Orgai4  of  the  Btdy ;  when  thesa 
aie  in  g^ood  order,  the  thinlcing  part  i^  most  alert  and  active,  the  contraiy 
when  they  are  disturbed  or  diseased.*' — Dr.  Cadooan  on  Nursing 
Children,  8vo.  176T,  p.  5. 

f  **  We  have  some  good  fiunUles  In  England  of  the  name  of  Couk  or 

B  5 


10  INTRODUCTIOX. 

their  office ;  we  have  every  reason  to  suppose  they  were  t>er- 
sons  of  equal  dignity  heretofore. 

In  Dr.  Peg^e's  "  Forme  of  Cury,''  8vo.  London,  1780,  we 
read,  that  when  Cardinal  Otto,  the  Pope's  Legate,  was  at 
Oxford,  A.D.  1248,  his  brother  officiated  as  «  Maoist£R 

COQUIN-fi.*' 

This  important  post  has  always  been  held  as  a  situation  of 
high  trust  and  confidence ;  and  the  "  Magnus  Coquus,** 
Anp;lic^,  the  Master  Kitchener y  has,  time  immemonal,  been 
an  Officer  of  considerable  dignity  in  the  palaces  of  Princes. 

The  Cook  in  Plautus  (Pseudol)  is  called  ♦•  Hominum 
servatoremy^^  the  preserver  of  mankind ;  and  by  Mercier 
*<  un  Midecin  qui  guhit  radicalemerU  deux  moUadies  morteUe!^ 
la  Faim  et  la  Soif.'* 

The  Norman  Conqueror  William  bestowed  sevend  por- 
tions of  Lapd  on  these  h^ly  favoured  domestics,  the  "  Co- 
quorum  Propositus,"  and  "  Coqus  Regius,"  a  Manor 
was  bestowed  on  Robert  jSrgyUon  the  *'  Grand  Queux"  to 
be  held  by  the  following  service.  See  that  venerable  Record 
the  Doomsday  Book, 

"  Addington — Co.  Surrey. 

"  Robert  Argyllon  holdeth  one  carucate  of  Land  in  Ad- 
dington in  the  County  of  Surrey,  by  the  service  of  making 
one  mess  in  an  earthen  pot  in  the  kitchen  of  our  Lord  the 
King,  on  the  day  of  his  coronation,  called  De  la  GfrotUe,** 
i.  e.  a  kind  of  Plum  porridge,  or  Water  gruel  with  Plums  ia 
it.  This  dish  is  still  served  up  at  the  Royal  Table  at  Coio^ 
nations,  by  the  Lord  of  the  said  Manor  of  Addington. 

At  the  Coronation  of  King  George  IV .,  Court  of  Claims, 
July  12,  1820. 

**  The  petition  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
which  was  presented  by  Sir  G.  Nayler,  claiming  to  perform 
the  service  of  presenting  a  dish  of  De  la  ChovLte^  to  the 
King  at  the,  banquet,  was  considered  by  the  Court,  and 
decided  to  be  allowed.'* 

A  good  Dinner  is  one  of  the  greatest   enjoyments  of 

Coke.  I  know  not  what  Ihey  may  think  ;  but  tbey  may  depend  upop 
ifey  they  all  originally  sprang  from  real  and  professional  Cooks ;  and  tbey 
need  not  be  ashamed  of  their  extraction,  any  more  tban  the  ButUM^  Patr 
kert,  ^.''— Dr.  Pboob's  Forme  qf  Cury,  p.  162* 


INTRODUCTION.  11 

human  life;— -and  as  the  practice  of  Cookery  is  attended 
with  so  many  discouraging  difficulties,*  so  many  disgusting 
and  disagreeable  circumstances,  and  even  dangers,  we  ougu 
to  have  some  regard  for  those  who  encounter  them,  to  procure 
us  pleasure,  and  to  reward  their  attention  by  rendering  their 
situation  every  way  as  comfortable  and  as;reeable  as  we  can. 
He  who  preaches  Integrity  to  those  in  the  Kitchen,  (see  '*  AdL* 
vice  to  Cooks* ^)  may  be  permitted  to  recommend  Liberality 
to  those  in  the  Parlour ;  they  are  indeed  the  sources  of  each 
other.  Depend  upon  it,  ''  True  Self- Love  and  SodeU  are 
thesafne;*^  **  Do  as  you  wotdd  be  done  by ;  **  give  those 
you  are  obliged  to  trust — every  inducement  to  be  honest, 
and  no  temptation  to  play  tricks. 

When  you  consider  that  a  good  servant  eatsf  no  more 
than  a  bad  one, — ^how  much  vris^  is  occasioned  by  pro-^ 
visions  being  dressed  in  a  slovenl^and  unskilful  manner-^ 
and  how  much  a  good  Cook  (to  whom  the  conduct  of  the 
Kitchen  is  confided)  can  save  you  by  careful  management- 
no  Housekeeper  will  hardly  deem  it  an  unwise  speculation, 

*  It  is  said,  there  are  sbvbn  chances  against  even  the  moat  simple 
dish  being  presented  to  the  Mouth  in  eisolute  perfection;  for  in* 
stance,  a  lbo  op  Mdtton. 

1st. — The  Mutton  must  be  good, 

2d.^-MQ8t  have  been  kept  a  good  time. 

Sd. — ^Mnst  be  roasted  at  a  good  fire. 

4th. — By  a  good  Cook. 

5th. — Who  must  be  in  good  temper. 

Ath.  — With  all  this  felicitoos  combination  yoa  must  have  good  luck, 
and 

7th. — Good  Appetite.— The  Meat^  and  the  mouths  which  are  to  eat 
ft,  must  be  ready  for  action,  at  the  same  moment. 

f  To  guard  against  "  la  gourmandise/'  of  the  second  table,  **  pro-' 
Tide  each  of  your  servants  with  si  large  pair  of  spectacles  of  the  highest 
magnifying  power,  and  never  permit  them  to  sit  down  to  any  meal 
without  wearing  them;  tliey  are  as  necessary,  and  as  useful  in  a 
Kitchen  as  Pots  and  Kettles :  they  will  make  a  Lark  look  as  large  as 
a  Fowl,  a  Gottee  as  big  as  a  Swan,  a  Leg  of  Mutton  as  large  as  a 
Hind  Quarter  of  Beef;  a  twopenny  loaf  as  large  as  a  quartern  ;**  and 
as  Philosophers  assure  you  that  Pain  even  is  only  imaginary,  we  may 
justly  believe  the  same  of  Hunger ;  and  if  a  servant  who  eats  no  mors 
than  one  pound  of  food,  imagines,  by  the  aid  of  these  glasses,  that  he 
has  eaten  three  pounds,  his  hunger  will  be  as  fully  satisfied — and  the 
Addition  to  your  Optician  s  Account,  will  soon  be  overpaid  by  the  Sub- 
txaction  from  your  Butcher's  and  Baker's. 


12 


e 


INTRODUCTION. 


—it  is  certainly  an  amiable  experiment, — ^to  invite  the 
Honesty  and  Industry  of  domestics,  by  setting  them  an  ex- 
ample of  LiberaUtj/y — at  least,  show  them,  that  *'  according 
to  their  Pains ^  will  be  tlmr  Gains.^^ 

Avoid  all  approaches  towards  Familiarity ^ — which  to  a 
proverb  is  accompanied  by  Contempt^  and  soon  breaks  the 
neck  of  Obedience. 

A.  Lady  gave  us  the  following  account  of  the  progress  of  a 
Favourite : 

**  The  first  year.  She  was  an  excellent  Servant ;  the  Se* 
condy  a  kind  Mistress ;  the  Third,  an  intolerable  Tyrant ;  at 
whose  dismissal,  every  creature  about  my  house  rejoiced 
heartily." 

However,  Servants  are  more  likely  to  be  praised  into  good 
conduct  than  scolded  out  #f  bad,  always  commend  them  when 
they  do  right — to  cherish  the  desire  of  pleasing  in  them,  you 
must  show  them  that  you  are  pleased : — 

<<  Be  to  their  Faults  a  little  blind, 
**  And  to  their  Virtues  very  kind." 

By  such  conduct,  ordinary  Serv^ts  may  be  Converted 
into  Good  ones  ;^-few  are  so  hardened  as  not  to  feel  grati* 
fed  when  they  are  kindly  and  liberaliy  treated. 

It  is  a  good  Maxim  to  select  Servants  not  younger  than 
THIRTY,— 6e/brc  that  age,  however  comfortable  you  may 
endeavour  to  make  them,  their  want  of  experience,  and  the 
Hope  of  something  still  better^  prevents  their  being  satisfied 
with  their  present  state. — After ,  they  have  had  the  benefit  of 
experience,  if  they  are  tolerably  comfortable,  they  will  en- 
deavour to  deserve  the  smiles  of  even  a  moderately  kind 
master,  for  Fear  they  may  change  for  the  worse. 

Life  may  indeed  be  very  fairly  divided  into  the  seasons  of 
HoPB  and  Fear.  In  Youth,  we  hope  every  thing  may  he 
right; — in  Agb,  we  fear  every  thing  will  be  wrong. 

Do  not  discharge  a  good  servant  for  a  slight  ofienc< 


*'  Bear  and  forbear,  thus  preached  the  stoic  sag^es, 

*'  And  in  two  words,  include  the  sense  of  pages.*' — Pope. 

Human  nature,  is  the  same  in  all  stations  ;  if 
you  can  convince  y6ur  Servants,  that  you  have  a  generous 
and  considerate  regard  for  their  Health  and  Comfort,  why 


INTRODUCTION.  13 

should  You  imagine  that  They  will  be  insensible  to  the  good 
they  receive  ? 

Impose  no  commands  but  what  are  reasonable — ^nor  re« 
prove  but  with  justice  and  temper — ^the  best  way  to  ensure 
which,  is  never  to  Lecture  them,  till  at  least  One  day  after 
they  have  offended  you, 

if  th^y  have  any  par-icular  Hardship  to  endure  in  your 
service,  let  them  See,  that  you  are  concerned,  for  the  neces* 
sity  of  imposing:  it. 

If  they  are  Sick, — remember  you  are  their  Patron  as  well 
as  their  Master,  remit  their  labour,  and  give  them  all  the 
assistance  of  Food,  Physic,  and  every  comfort  in  your  power. 
^^Tender  assiduity  about  an  Invalid  is  half  a  Cure,  it  is  a 
balsam  to  the  Mind,  which  has  a  most  powerful  effect  on  the 
Body,  soothes  the  sharpest  Pains,  and  strengthens  beyond 
the  richest  Co'rdiaU 

The  following  estimate  of  the  Expenses  of  a  Female 
Servant,  was  sent  to  us  by  an  experienced  Housekeeper — 

They  are  often  expected  to  find  their  own  Tea  and 
Sugar, — which  with  sober  servants  is  the  most  comfortable 
meal  they  have,  and  will  require. 

£  s.  d. 

Haifa  pound  of  Tea  p«rm0nM    }  ^^  ^^„^  q  m  n 

Ditto  Ditto  Sugar,  per  toeek )  '^ 

4  ptir  o[ Shoes, per anTium    • 0  18  0 

2  pair  of  blHck  worsted  Stockings 0  4  0 

2  pair  of  white  cot  ion  ditto **** 0  5  0 

2  Gowns   1  10  0 

6  Aprons — 4  check  and  2  white. » 0  10.  6 

eCaps • 0  10  6 

A  Bonnet,  a  Shawl  or  Cloak,  Pattens,  <fec.  Ribands  Hand- 
kerchiefs, Pins,  Needles,  Threads,  Thimbles,  Scissors, 
and  other  Morking  tools,— S.ays,  Stay-tape,  and  Buck- 
ram, <fec.  <fec 2  0  0 

iS9    8    0 

Beside^  these,  she  has  to  make  a  shift  and  buy  petticoats, 
pod^ets,  and  many  other  articles. 

We  appeal  to  the  neatest  managing  and  most  economical 
Housewife,  to  inform  us  how  this  can  be  done,  and  how 
much  a  poor  Girl  will  have  remaining  to  place  to  her  account 
in  the  Saving  Bank — for  help  in  Sickness — when  out  of 


14  INTRODUCTION. 

Place,  and  for  her  support  in  Old  Age.  Here  is  the  source 
of  the  swarms  of  distressed  Females  which  we  daily  meet  in 
our  streets. 

Ye,  who  think  that  to  protect  arid  encourage  Virtue  is 
the  best  preventive  from  Vice,  reward  your  Female  Servants 
liberally. 

Charity  should  begin  at  home — Prevention  is  prefer- 
able to  Cure — ^but  I  have  no  objection  to  see  your  names  or- 
namenting the  Lists  of  Subscribers  to  Foundling  UospitaJs, 
and  Female  Penitentiaries.*  Gentle  Reader,  for  a  definition 
of  the  word  "  Charity*'  let  me  refer  you  to  the  13th  Chapter 
of  St.  Paul's  First  Epistle  to  the  Connthians. 

*•  To  say  nothing  of  the  deleterious  vapours  and  pestilen- 
tial exhalations  of  the  charcoal,  which  soon  undermine  the 
health  of  the  heartiest,  the  glare  of  a  scorching  fire,  and  the 
smoke  so  baneful  to  the  eyes  and  the  complexion,  are  con- 
tinual and  inevitable  dangers :  and  a  Cook  must  live  in  the 
midst  of  them,  as  a  soldier  on  the  field  of  battle,  surrounded 
by  bullets,  and  bombs,  and  Congreve*s  rockets ;  with  this 
x)nly  difference,  that  for  the  first,  every  day  is  a  fighting  day, 
that  her  warfare  is  almost  always  without  glory,  and  most 
praiseworthy  achievements  pass  not  only  without  reward,  but 

*  Much  real  reformation  might  be  effected,  and  most  grateful  senrioes 
obtained,  if  Families  which  consist  wholly  of  females,  would  take  ser- 
vants recommended  from  the  Magdalbn  —Penitentiary — or  Guar- 
dian— who  seek  to  be  restored  to  virtuous  society. 

"  Female  servants  who  pursue  an  honest  course — have  to  travel  in 
their  peculiar  orbit,  through  a  more  powerfully  resisting  medium  than 
perhaps  any  other  class  of  people  in  civilized  life, — they  should  be 
treated  with  something  like  Christian  kindness — for  want  of  this — a 
fault  which  might  at  the  time  have  been  easily  amended — has  become 
the  source  of  interminable  sorrow.'* 

"  By  the  clemency  and  benevolent  interference  of  two  mistresses  ' 
known  to  the  writer,  two  servants  have  become  happy  wives,  who,  had 
they  been  in  some  situations,  would  have  been  literally  Outcasts.'^ 

Almost  laudable  Society  for  the  Encodraoememt  of  Female 
SERVANT!*,  by  a  gratuitous  Registry,  and  by  Rewards,  was  instituted 
in  1813. 

Plans  of  which  may  be  had  gratis  at  the  Society's  House,  No.  10; 

r   |||d|tt||  Garden.    The  above  is  an  extract  from  the  Rev.  H.  6.  Wat- 

-^^■^s^liiHpHmto  to  Heads  of  Families,  a  work  well  deserving  the  attei^tive 

consideration  of  inexperienced  housekeepers^  and  from  pp.  13^  96^  End 

98,  of  which  the  above  is  an  extract. 


INTRODUCTION.  15 

frequently  without  thanks — for  the  most  consummate  cook 
is,  alas  !  seldom  noticed  by  the  master,  or  heard  of  by  the 
guests ;  who,  while  they  are  eagerly  devouring  his  Turtle, 
and  drinking  his  wine,  care  very  little  who  dressed  the  one, 
or  sent  the  other." — Mmanach  des  Churmands* 

This  observation  applies  especially  to  the  Second  Cook, 
or  first  Kitchen  Maid,  in  lai^e  families,  who  have  by  far  the 
hardest  place  in  the  house,  and  are  worse  paid,  and  truly 
verify  the  old  adage,  *'  the  more  work  the  less  wages,**  If 
there  is  anything  right  the  cook  has  the  praise — when  there 
is  any  thing  wrong,  as  surely  the  Kitchen  Maid  has  the  blame. 
Be  it  known,  then,  to  honest  John  Bull,  that  this  humble 
domestic  is  expected  by  the  Cook  to  take  the  entire  manage- 
ment of  all  Roasts,  Boils,  Fish,  and  Vegetables — i.  e. 
the  principal  part  of  an  Englishman's  (jtinner. 

The  Master,  who  wishes,  to  enjoy  the  rare  luxury  of  a 
table  regularly  well  served  in  the  best  style,  must  treat 
his  Cook  as  his  friend — ^watch  over  her  health*  with  the 


*■  Tbe  greatest  care  should  be  taken  by  the  man  of  fashion,  that  his 
Cook's  health  be  preserved :  one  hundredth  part  of  the  attention  usually 
bestowed  on  his  dog,  or  his  horse,  M'ill  suffice  to  regulate  her  animal 
.system. 

''  Cleanliness,  and  a  proper  ventilation  to  carry  off  smoke  and  steam, 
should  be  particularly  attended  to  in  the  construction  of  a  kitchen  ;  the 
|rrand  scene  of  action,  the  fire-place,  should  be  placed  where  it  may  re- 
ceive plenty  of  light ;  hitherto  the  contrary  has  prevailed,  and  the  poor 
Cook  is  continually  basted  with  her  own  perspiration.'*—  A,  C.  Jun* 

**  Tbe  most  experienced  artists  in  Cookery  cannot  be  certain  of  their 
work  without  tasting— they  must  be  incessantly  tasting.  Tbe  spoon  of  a 
good  Cook  is  continually  passing  from  the  stewpan  to  his  tongue ;  nothing 
but  fi'equent .tasting  his  Sauces,  Ragouts,  <fec.  can  discover  to  him  what 
progress  they  have  made,  or  enable  him  to  season  a  Soup  with  any  cer- 
tainty of  success;  his  Palate,  therefore,  must  be  in  the  liighest  state  of 
excitability,  that  the  least  fault  may  be  perceived  in  an  instant.  i 

*'  But,  alas !  the  constant  empyreumatio  fumes  of  tbe  stoves,  the  ne- 
cessity of  frequent  drinking,  and  often  of  bad  beer,  to  moisten  a  parched 
throat ;  in  short,  every  thing  around  him  conspires  quickly  to  vitiate  the 
organs  of  taste ;  the  palate  becomes  blunted,  its  quickness  of  feeling 
and  delicacy,  on  which  the  sensibility  of  the  organs  of  taste  depends, 
grows  daily  more  obtuse,  and  in  a  short  time  the  gustatory  nerve  be- 
cerne?  quite  unexcitable. 

**  If  you  fiko  totdr  Cook  neglect  his  business — that  his  Ra- 
gmUit^xe  too  highly  spiced  or  salted,  and  his  cookery  has  too  much  of 
the '  haut  goUty*  you  inay  be  sure  that  his  Index  of  Taste  wants  regn«> 


16  INTRODUCTION. 

tendei'est  care,  and  especially,  be  sure  her  Taste  does  not 
suf] er  f rom  her  Stomach  being  deranged  by, Bilious  Attacks. 

Besides  understanding  the  management  of  the  Spit — ^the 
Stewpan,  and  the  Rolling  Pin,  a  Complete  Cook  must 
know  how  to  go  to  Market,  write  legibly,  and  keep  Accounts 
accurately. 

In  well  regulated  Private  Families  the  most  convenient 
custom  seems  to  ba,  that  the  Cook  keep  a  house-book,  con- 
taining an  account  of  the  miscellaneous  article  she  purchases ; 
and  the  Butcher's,  Baker's,  Butterman's,  Green -grocer's. 
Fishmonger's,  Milkman's,  and  Washing  Bills  are  brought 
in  every  Monday ;  these  it  is  the  duty  of  tha  Cook  to  exa- 
mine, before  she  presents  them  to  her  employer  every  Tues- 
day morning  to  be  discharged. 

The  advantage  of  paying  such  bills  weekly  is  incalculable  ; 
among  others— the  constant  check  it  aflPords  against  any  ex- 
cess beyond  the  sum  allotted  for  defraying  them,  and  the  op- 
portunity it  gives  of  correcting  increase  of  expense  in  one 
week  by  a  prudent  retrenchment  in  the  next.  ♦*  If  you  would 
live  even  with  the  world,  calculate  your  expences  at  Half 

your  Income — 4f  you  would  grow  iitc/i,  at  One  Third, 

I  -      -  —  —        -        -*-t-- 

luting— his  palate  bos  lo&t  its  sensibility,  and  it  is  high  time  to  call  in 
the  assistance  of  the  apothecary. 

*'  *  Purger  souvenV  is  the  grand  maxim  in  all  Kitchens  T^here  le 
Mattre  d"*  H6tel  has  any  regard  for  the  reputation  of  liis  table.  i># 
Bonnes  Hommes  de  Bouche — submit  to  the  operation  without  a  mur- 
Diur ;  to  bind  others,  it  should  be  made  the  first  condition  in  hiring  them. 
Tliose  who  refuse,  prove  they  were  not  born  to  become  Masters  of  tbeir 
Art :  and  their  inditlej^nce  to  Fame  will  rank  them,  as  they  deserve, 
Bfnong  those  Slaves  who  pass  their  lives  in  as  much  obscurity  as  ihtir 
own  stewpans/' 

To  the  preceding  observations  from  the  '*  Almanack  des  Cfrntr- 
mands,**  vt^e  may  add  that  the  ilfattfAfctan  will  have  a  sUll  better  chance 
at  success,  if  he  can  prevail  on  his  master  to  observe  the  same  rSgime 
which  he  orders  for  his  Cook,  or,  instead  of  endeavouring  to  awaken  an 
idle  Appetite,  by  reading  the  Index  to  a  Cookery  Book,  or  an  add!* 
tional  use  of  the  pepi)er-box  and  salt-cellar — rather  seek  it  from  Ab- 
Minence  or  Exercise — the  philosophical  Gourmand  will  consider  that 
the  edge  of  our  Appetite  is  generally  keen,  in  proportion  io  the  activity 
oi  our  other  habits ;  let  him  attentively  peruse  our  **  Peptic  Prb« 
oePTS,''  &c.  which  briefly  explain  the  Art  of  refreshing  the  Gustatory 
Nerves,  and  of  invigorating  the  whole  System.  See  in  the  following 
Chapter  on  Invitations  to  Dinnbr— A  Recipe  to  make  FoRTt  Pb- 
AisTALTic  Persuaders. 


INTRODUCTION.  17 

.  It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  have  a  table  of  rules  for  regulat- 
ing the  ordinary  ex pences  of  the  Family,  in  order  to  check 
any  innovation  or  excess  which  otherwise  roight  be  intro- 
duced unawares,  and  derange  the  proposed  distribution  of 
the  annual  revenue. 

To  understand  the  Economy  of  Household  Affairs  is  not 
only  essential  to  a  Woman's  proper  and  pleasant  performance 
of  the  duties  of  a  Wife  and  a  Mother,  but  is  indispensable  to 
the  Comfort,  Respectabilitv,  and  general  Welfare  of  all  Fa-t 
milies — ^whatever  oe  their  Circumstances. 

The  Editor  has  employed  some  leisure  hours  in  collecting 
Practical  Hints  for  Instructing  Inexperienced  Housekeepers  in 
the  useful 

Art  of  Providing  Comfortably  for  a  Family ; 
which  is  displayed  so  plainly  and  so  particularly,  that  a  Young 
Lady  may  learn  the  delectable  Arcana  of  Domestic  Affairs,  in 
as  little  time  as  is  usually  devoted  to  directing  the  position 
of  her  Hands  on  a  Piano-forte^  or  of  her  Feet  in  a  QuadrxUe 
—this  will  enable  her  to  make  the  Cage  of  Matrimony  as 
comfortable  as  the  Net  of  Courtship  was  charming.  For  this 
purpose  he  has  contrived 

A  Housekeeper's  Ledger, 

A  Plain  and  Easy  Plan  of  Keeping  Accurate  Accounts  of 
the  Expenses  of  Housekeeping,  which  with  only 

Onb  Hour's  Attention  in  a  Week, 

will  enable  you  to  balance  all  such  Accounts  with  the  utmost 
Exactness ;  an  acceptable  acquisition  to  All,  who  admit  that 

ORDER  AND  ECONOMY 

'auk 
THR   BASIS   OF 

COMFORT  AND  INDEPENDENCE. 

Published   by  Geo,    B.    Whit  taker  ^   Ave-Maria-^lane, 
Price  bounds   with    Ruled  Pages  for  Accounts,  Sfc,   3s. 

It  is  almost  impossible  for  a  Cook  in  a  large  Family,  to 
attend  to  the  business  of  the  Kitchen  with  any  certainty  of 
perfection  if  employed  in  other  household  concerns.  It  is  a 
service  of  such  importance,  and  so  difficult  to  perform  even 


18  INTRODUCTION. 

tolerably  well,  that  it  is  sufficient  to  engross  the  entire  atten- 
tion of  one  person. 

"  If  we  take  a  review  of  the  Qualifications  which  are  indiS" 
pensable  in  that  highly  estimable  domestic^  a  Good  Cook, 
we  shall  find  that  very  few  deserve  that  name."* 

*«  The  majority  of  those  who  set  up  for  Professors  of  this 
Art  are  of  mean  ability,  selfish,  and  pilfering  everything 
they  can  ;  others  are  indolent  and  insolent.  Those  who 
really  understand  their  Business,  (which  are  by  far  the 
smallest  number,)  are  too  often  either  ridiculously  saucy,  or 
insatiably  thirsty ;  in  a  word,  a  good  subject  of  this  class  is  a . 
rara  avis  indeed !" 

"  God  sends  Meat," — ^who  sends  Cooks  ?t  the  proverb  has 
long  saved  us  the  trouble  of  guessing.  Vide  Almanach  des 
Gourmandsy  p.  83. 

Of  what  value  then  is  not  this  book  ? — which  will  render 
every  person  of  common  sense  a  good  Cook  in  as  little  time 
as  they  can  read  it  through  attentively. 

If  the  Masters  and  Mistresses  of  Families  will  sometimes 
condescend  to  make  an  amusement  of  this  Art,  they  will  es- 
cape numberless  disappointments,  &c.  which  those  who  will 
not  will  occasionally  inevitably  suffer,  to  the  detriment  of 
both  their  Health  and  their  Fortune. 

*  *'  She  must  be  qoick  and  strong  of  sight ;  her  hearing  most  acute, 
that  she  may  be  sensible  when  the  contents  of  her  vessels  babble,  al- 
though they  be  closely  covered,  and  that  she  may  be  alarmed  before 
the  pot  boils  over ;  her  auditory  nerve  ought  to  discriminate  (when  se- 
veial  saucepans  are  in  operation  at  the  same  time)  the  simmering  of  one« 
the  ebullition  of  another,  and  the  full-toned  wabbling  of  a  third. 

"  It  is  imperiously  requisite  that  her  organ  of  smell  be  highly  sus- 
ceptible of  the  various  effluvia,  that  her  nose  may  distinguish  the  per- 
fection of  aromatic  ingredients,  and  that  in  animal  substances  it  shall 
evince  a  suspicious  accuracy  between  tenderness  and  putrefaction; 
above  all,  her  olfactories  should  be  tremblmgly  alive  to  mustiness  and 
empyreuma. 

^  It  is  from  the  exquisite  sensibility  of  her  palate,  that  we  admire  and 
jadge  of  the  Cook  ;  from  the  alliance  between  the  olfactory  and  sapid 
organs  it  will  be  seen,  that  their  perfection  is  indispensable."—^.  C. 
Jun, 

t  A  facetious  Gourmand  suggests  that  the  old  story  of  '*  lighting  a 
Candle  to  the  DeviP'  probably  arose  from  this  adage  —and  was  an  of- 
fering presented  to  his  Infernal  Majesty,  by  some  Epicure  who  waa  in 
want  of  a  Cook. 


INTRODUCTION.  19 

I  did  not  presume  to  offer  any  observations  of  my  own,  till 
I  had  read  aJl  that  I  could  find  written  on  the  subject,  and 
submitted  (with  no  small  pains)  to  a  patient  and  attentive 
consideration  of  every  preceding  work,  relating  to  culinary 
coDcerns,  that  I  could  meet  with. 

These  Books  vary  very  little  from  each  other— except  in 
the  preface,  they  are 

**  Like  in  all  else  as  one  Egg  to  another.** 

"Jb  uno,  disce  omneSy^  cutting  and  pasting  have  been  much 
oftener  employed  than  the  Pen  and  Ink :  any  one  who  has 
occasion  to  refer  to  two  or  three  of  them,  will  find  the  Receipts 
almost  always  *'  verbatim  et  literatim  ;*'  equally  unintelligible 
to  those  who  are  ignorant,  and  useless  to  those  who  are  ac- 
quainted with  the  business  of  the  Kitchen. 

I  have  perused  not  less  than  250  of  these  volumes. 

During  the  Herculean  labour  of  my  tedious  progress  through 
these  books,  few  of  which  affords  the  germ  of  a  single  idea, 
I  have  often  wished  that  the  authors  of  them  had  been  satis- 
fied with  giving  us  ihe  results  of  their  own  practice  and  ex- 
perience— instead  of  idly  perpetuating  the  errors,  prejudices, 
and  plagiarisms,  of  their  predecessors, — the  strange,  and  un- 
accountable, and  uselessly  extravagant  farragos,  and  heteroge- 
neous compositions,  which  fill  their  pages,  are  combinations 
Ho  rational  being  would  ever  think  of  either  dressing  or 
eating;  and  without  ascertaining  the  practicability  of  pre- 
paring the  receipts,  and  their  fitness  for  food  when  done, 
they  should  never  have  ventured  to  recommend  them  to 
others ; — ^the  reader  of  them  will  often  put  the  same  qtuBrCy 
as  Jeremy^  in  Congreve's  comedy  of  "  Love  for  Lovey"*  when 
Valentine  observes,  **  There's  a  page  doubled  down  in  Epic- 
tetus,  that  is  a  feast  for  an  Emperor." — Jer.  Was  Epictetus  a 
real  Cook,  or  did  he  only  write  Receipts  ? 

Half  of  the  modem  Cookery  books  are  made  up  with  pages 
cut  out  of  obsolete  works,  such  as  the  "  Choise  Manual  of 
^eereUy'^  the  "  True  Gentlewoman's  Delight,^'  &c.  of  as  much 
iMe,  in  this  ^ge  of  refinement,  as  the  following  curious  passage 
from  "  The  Accomplished  Lady's  Rich  Closet  of  Rarities^  or 


20  INTRODUCTION.  v 

Ingenious  Gentlewoman's  Delightful  Companion,"' 12mo, 
London,  1653,  chapter  7,  page  42 ;  which  I  have  inserted  ia 
a  note*  to  give  the  reader  a  notion  of  the  barbarous  manners 
of  the  16//i  century y  with  the  addition  of  the  Arts  of  the  Con- 
feciioner, — the  Brewer, — the  Baker, — the  Distiller, — the 
Gardener, — the  Clearstarcher, — and  the  Perfumer, — ^and  how 
to  make  Pickies,— Puft'  Paste,— Butter,— Blacking,  &c. — 
together  with  my  Lady  BourUifuVs  sovereign  remedy  for  an 
inward  Bruise,  and  other  ever-failing  Nostrums — Dr,  Killem-^ 
quick's  wonder-working  Essence,  and  fallible  Elixir  which: 
cures  all  manner  of  incurable  maladies  direc.ly  minute — Mrs. 
Notable's  instructions  how  to  make  soft  Pomatum,  that  will 
soon  make  more  hair  grow  upon  thy  Head,  "  than  Dubbin, 
thy  thill  horse,  hath  upon  his  tail,"  and  many  others  equally 
invaluable  !  !  ! — the  proper  appellation  for  which,  would  be 
•*  a  dangerous  budget  of  vulgar  errors,"  concluding  with  a 
bundle  of  extracts  from  "  the  Gardener's  Calendar,"  and 
**  the  Publican's  Daily  Companion." 

Thomas  Carter,  in  the  preface  to  his  "  City  and  Country 
Cook,**  London,  1738,  says,  "What  I  have  published,  is 
almost  the  only  book,  one  or  two  excepted,  which  of  late 


*  ''  A  Gentlewoman  being  at  table,  abroad  or  at  home,  most  observe 
to  keep  her  body  straight,  and  lean  not  by  any  means  with  ber  elbows, 
nor  by  ravenous  gesture  discover  a  voracious  appetite ;  talk  not  when 
you  have  meat  in  your  mouth  ;  and  do  not  smack  like  a  Pig,  nor  veu  • 
ture  to  eat  Spoonm»at  so  hot  that  the  tears  stand  in  your  Eyes,  which 
is  as  unseemly  as  the  Geuilewoman  viho  pretended  to  have  as  little  a 
Stomach  as  she  bad  a  Mouth,  and  therefore  would  not  swallow  her 
Peas  by  spoonsful ;  but  took  them  one  by  one,  and  cut  them  in  two 
before  she  would  eat  them.  It  is  very  uncomely  to  diink  so  large  a 
draught  that  your  Breath  is  almost  goue-^utid  are  forced  to  blow 
strongly  to  recover  yourself— throwing  down  your  liquor  as  into  a  Fttai- 
nel  is  an  action  fitter  for  a  Juggler  than  a  Gentlewoman;  thus  much  for 
your  Observations  in  genernl ;  if  I  am  defective  as  to  particulars,  your 
own  prudence,  discretion,  and  curious  observations  will  supply." 

*'  In  Carving  at  your  own  TabU,  distribute  the  best  pieces  first,  and 
it  will  appear  very  comely  and  decent  to  use  a  Fork;  so  touch  no  piece 
of  Meat  without  it" 

"  Mem,  The  English  are  indebted  to  Tom  Coryat  for  introducing 
THE  Fork,  for  which  they  called  him  Furcifer,** — See  his  Crudities^ 
vol.  i.  p.  106.— Edit.  1776,  8vo. 


r 


IXTRODUCTIOX.  21 

ye^rs  has  come  into  tlie  world,  that  has  been  the  result  of  the 
au  hor's  own  practice  and  experience ;  for  though  very  few 
eminent  practical  Cooks  have  ever  cared  to  publish  what 
they  knew  of  the  art,  yet  they  have  been  prevailed  on,  for  a 
small  premium  from  a  Bookseller  to  lend  their  names  to  per- 
formances in  this  art,  unworthy  their  owning." 

Robert  Mav,  in  the  introduction  to  his  '*  Accomplished 
Cook,'*  1665,  says,  "  To  all  honest  and  well  intending  persons 
of  my  profession,  and  others^  this  booh  cannot  but  be  accept^ 
able^  as  it  plainly  and  profitably  discovers  the  mystery  cf  the 
vhok  art ;  for  which,  thouojh  I  m?y  be  envied  by  some,  that 
only  value  their  private  interests  above  posterity  and  the  public 
gO(>d;  yet,  (he  adds,)  God  and  my  own  conscience  would 
iJot  permit  me  to  bury  these,  my  experiences,  with  my  silver 
lairs  in  the  grave." 

Those  high  and  mighty  Masters  and  Mistresses  of  the  Ali- 
mentary Art,  who  call  themselves  "  Profess*'*  Cooks,  are  said 
to  be  very  jealous  and  mysterious  beings  :  and  that  if  in  a 
long  life  of  laborious  Stove  work,  they  have  found  out  a  few 
useful  secrets,  they  seldom  impart  to  the  public  the  fruits  of 
their  experience,  but  sooner  than  divulge  their  discoveries  for 
the  benefit  and  comfort  of  their  fellow-creatures,  these  silly 
selfish  beings  will  rather  run  the  risk  of  a  reprimand  from 
their  employers,  and  will  sooner  spoil  a  good  Dinner,  than 
suffer  their  fellow-servants  to  see  liow  they  dress  it ! !  ! 

The  silly  selfishness  of  short-sighted  mortals,  is  never  more 
extremely  absurd  than  in  their  unprofitable  parsimony,  of 
what  is  of  no  use  to  them,  but  would  be  of  actual  value  to 
others,— who  in  return  would  willingly  repay  them  tenfold ; 
—however,  I  hope  I  may  be  permitted  to  quote  in  defence 
of  these  culinary  Professors,  a  couple  of  lines  of  a  favourite 
old  song : 

"  Tfyoa  search  the  world  round,  each  professioD,  you'll  find, 
"  Hath  some  snug  little  secrets,  which  the  Mysterj'*  they  call/' 

*  **  Almost  all  Arts  and  Sciences  are  more  or  less  encumbered  with 
^arerromand  prejudices,  which  avarice  and  i|rnorance  have  unfo*- 
tniat4>lj  sufiicient  influence  to  preserve,  by  help  (or  bioderao.^)  of 
niysterious,  undefinable,  and  not  seldom  unintelligible,  technical  terms 
^Aoglic^,  nicknames— which,  instead  of  enlightenina*  the  subject  it  is 


«7 


n 


22  INTRODUCTION. 

My  receipts  are  the  results  of  experiments  carefBlly 
made,  and  accurately  and  circumstantially  related ; 

The  Time  requisite  for  dressing  being  stated. 

The  Quantities  of  the  various  articles  contained  in  each 
composition  being  carefully  set  down  in  Number,  Weight, 
and  Measure. 

The  Weights  are  Avoirdupois ;  the  Measure,  Lyne^s 
graduated  Glass,  i.  e.  a  Wine  pint  divided  into  sixteen  ounces, 
aud  the  Ounce  into  eight  Drachms : — by  a  Wineglass  is  to  be 
understood  two  ounces  liquid  measure  ; — by  a  lai^e  or  table 
Spoonful,  half  an  ounce ; — by  a  small  or  Tea  Spoonful,  a 
drachm  or  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  i,  e.  nearly  equal  to 
two  drachms  avoirdupois. 

At  Price's  glass  warehouse,  near  Exeter  'Change,  in  the 
StranJ,  you  may  get  measures  divided  into  Tea  and  Table 
Spoons. — No  Cook  should  be  without  one,  who  wishes  to  be 
regular  in  her  business. 

This  precision  has  never  before  been  attempted  in  Cookery 
books,  but  I  found  it  indispensable  from  the  impossibility  of 
guessing  the  quantities  intended  by  such  obscure  expressions 
as  have  been  usually  employed  for  this  purpose  in  former 
works : — 

For  instance  :  a  bit  of  this — a  handful  of  that — a  pinch  of 
t'other, — do  'em  over  with  an  Egg-«-and  a  sprinkle  of  salt, — 
a  dust  of  flour — a  shake  of  pepper, — a  squeeze  of  lemon^ — 

professedly  pretended  they  were  invented  to  illuminate,  serve  bat  to 
shroud  it  in  almost  impenetrable  obscurity  ;  and,  in  general,  so  extrava- 
gantly fond  are  the  professors  of  an  art  of  keeping  up  ail  the  pomp, 
circumstance,  and  mystery  of  it,  and  of  preserving  the  accumulated  pre- 
judices of  ages  past  undiminished,  that  one  might  fairly  suppose  those 
who  have  bad  the  courage  and  perseverance  to  overcome  these  obstacles, 
and  penetrate  the  veil  of  science,  were  delighted  with  placing  difficalties 
in  the  way  of  those  who  may  attempt  to  follow  them,  on  purpose  to 
deter  them  from  the  pursuit,  and  that  they  cannot  bear  others  should 
climb  the  hill  of  knowledge  by  a  readier  road  than  they  themselves  did  : 
and  such  is  V esprit  du  corps,  that  as  their  predecessors  supported  them- 
selves by  serving  it  out  gradattm  et  iitiUalim,  and  retailing  with  a 
sparing  hand  the  information  they  so  hardly  obtained,  they  find  it  oon- 
vehient  to  follow  their  example :  and,  willing  to  do  as  they  have  been 
doncS  by,  leave  and  bequeath  the  inheritance  undiminished  to  those  who 
may  succeed  them.''— r3ee  p.  10.  of  Dr.  Kitchiner  on  T«/e«eopef, 
12ino.  1825.  printed  for  Whittaker,  Ave  Maria  Lane. 


INTRODUCTION.  23 

or  a  dash  of  yniegar,  &c.  are  the  constant  phrases ;  season  it 
to  your  Palate,  (meaning  the  Cook's,)  is  another  form  of 
speech :  now,  if  she  has  any, — it  is  very  imlikely  that  it  is  in 
unison  with  that  of  her  employers, — hy  continually  sipping 
piqmnte  relishes,  it  becomes  blunted  and  insensible,  and 
loses  the  faculty  of  appreciating  delicate  flavours, — so  that 
every  thing  is  done  at  random. 

These  Culinary  technicals*  are  so  very  differently  under- 
stood by  the  learned  who  write  them, — and  the  unlearned 
who  read  them,  and  their  '*  rule  of  Thumb'*  is  so  eztremely 
indefinite,  that  if  the  same  dish  be  dressed  by  different 
persons,  it  will  generally  be  so  different,  that  nobody  would 
imagine  they  had  worked  from  the  same  directions,  which 
will  assist  a  person  who  has  not  served  a  regular  apprentice- 
ship in  the  Kitchen,  no  more  than  reading  "  Robinson 
Crusoe,'*  would  enable  a  Sailor  to  steer  safely  from  England 
tokdia. 

It  is  astonishing  how  cheap  Cookery  Books  are  held  by 
practical  Cooks :  when  1  applied  to  an  experienced  artist  to 
recommend  me  some  books  that  would  give  me  a  notion  of 
the  radiments  of  Cookery,  he  replied  with  a  smile — '*  You 
may  read  Don  Quixote^  or  Peregrine  Pickky  they  are  both 
yery  good  books." 

Careless  expressions  in  Cookery  are  the  more  surprising, 
«s  the  Confectioner  is  regularly  attentive,  in  the  description 
ofhis  preparations,  to  give  the  exact  quantities,  though  his 
business,  compared  to  Cookery,  is  as  unimportant,  as  the 
Ornamental  is  inferior  to  the  Useful. 

'  The  maker  of  Blanc-mange,  Custards,  &c.  and  the  endless 
^d  useless  collection  of  puerile  playthings  for  the  palate  (of 
Rrstand  Second  childhood,  for  the  Vigour  of  Manhood  seek" 

*  "  In  the  present  langniage  of  Cookery,  there  has  been  a  woeful 
departure  from  the  simplicity  of  our  Ancestors,  such  a  farrago  of  unap- 
yiopiiate  and  onmeaning  terms,  many  corrupted  from  the  French,  others 
d^piisedfrom  the  Italian,  some  misapplied  from  the  German,  while  many 
>n  B  disgrace  to  the  English.  What  can  any  person  suppose  to  be  the 
yeaning  of  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb  in  epigram,  unless  it  were  a  poor  dish, 
waPeonylessPoet?  Aspect  of  Jith,yiou]A  appear  calculated  for  an 
^^^'i>l<>ger,  and  shoulder  of  mutton  surprised,  designed  for  a  Sheep 
*»wl«r."-.4.  C. /•!«. 


24  INTRODUCTION. 

eth  not  to  be  sucking  Sugar,  or  sipping  Turtle,  J  is  scrupulously 
exact,  even  to  a  grain,  in  his  ingredients;  whilst  Cooks  are 
unintelligibly  indefinite,  although  they  are  intnisted  with  the 
administration  of  our  food,  upon  the  proper  quality  and 
preparation  of  which,  all  our  powers  of  Body  and  Mind 
depend  ;-^their  Energy,  being  invariably  in  thp.  ratio,  of  the 
performance  of  the  restorative  process,  i.  e*  the  quantity, 
quality,  and  perfect  disestion  of  what  we  Eat  and  Drink. 

Unless  the  Stomach  he  in  good  humour,  eveiy  part  of  the 
machinery  of  Life  must  vibrate  with  languor : — can  we  then 
be  too  attentive  to  its  adjustment ! ! ! 


CULINARY  CURIOSITIES. 


ff 


The  following  specimea  of  the  unaccountably  whimsical  Harlequi- 
nade of  Foreign  Kitcbens  is  from  <vLa  Cbapelle"  Noureau  Cuisinier, 
Paris,  1748. 

*«  A  Turkey,**  in  the  shape  of  "  Football,**  or  *'  a  Hedge-hog. 
"  A  Shoulder  of  Mutton/'  in  the  shape  of  a  "  Bee  Hive,**—'*  Entr^ 
of  Pigeons,*'  **  in  the  form  of  a  Spider,**  or  »Vui». Fashion,  or  '<  in  the 
form  of  a  Frog,*'  or,  in  "  the  form  of  the  Moon.**  —Or,  "  to  make  a 
Pig  taste  like  a  Wild  Boar;**  take  a  living  Pig,  and  lei  him  swallow 
the  following  driulf,  viz.  boil  together  in  nnegar  and  water,  some  rose- 
mary,  thyme,  sweet  basil,  bay  leaves,  and  sage ;  when  you  have  let 
him  swallow  this,  immediately  whip  him  to  Death,  and  roast  him 
forthwith.  How  **  to  still  a  Cocke  lor  a  weak  bodie  that  is  ooo- 
sumed,  **  take  a  red  Cocke  that  is  not  too  olde,  and  beat  him  to  death." 
■■■See  THE  BooKE  or  Cookbrt,  very  necessary  for  all  such  as  delight 
therein.  Gathered  by  A.  W.  1591,  p.  12.  How  to  Roast  a  potrnd 
o/*  Hotter,  curiously  and  well:  and  to  farce  (the  culinary  technicoi 
ror  to  stuff)  a  boiled  leg  of  Lamb  with  Red  Herrings  and  Garlick ; 
with  many  other  receipts  of  as  high  a  relish,  and  of  as  easy  digestion 
as  the  DeviVs  Veniaon,  i.  e.  a  roasted  Tiger  stuffed  with  tenpenny  Nails, 
or  the  '*  Bonne  Bouche,*'  the  Rareskin  Rowskimowmowsky,  offered 
to  Baron  Munchausen,  '*  a  fricassee  of  Pistols,  with  Gunpowder  and 
Alcohol  sauce."— See  the  Adoentures  of  Baron  Munchausen,  12nio. 
1T92,  p.  200:  and  the  horrible  but  authentic  account  of  Ardbsoif, 
in  MooB rat's  Treatise  on  Poultry,  8vo.  1816,  p.  18. 

But  the  most  e3ctraordinary  of  all  the  Culinary  Receipts  that  bave 
been  under  my  eye,  is  the  following  diabolically  cruel  directions  of 
liizald's.  *'  How  to  roast  and  eat  a  Goose  alive.**  «  Take  a  GOOSB 
or  a  DUCK,  or  some  such  lively  creature,  (but  a  Goose  is  best  of  all 
for  this  purpose,)  pull  off  all  her  feathers,  only  the  bead  and  neck 
must  be  Spared ;  then  make  a  fire  round  about  her,  not  too  close  to 
her,  that  the  smoke  do  not  choke  her,  and  that  the  fire  may  not  burn 
her  too  soon :  nor  too  far  off,  that  she  may  not  escape  free ;  within 


INTRODUCTION.*  25 

r 

the  circle  of  the  fire  let  there  be  set  small  cups  and  pofs  full  of  water/ 
wherein  salt  and  honey  are  minsled  ;  and  let  there  be  set  also  chargers' 
full  of  sodden  Apples,  cut  into  small  pieces  in  the  dish.    The  Goose 
must  be  all  larded,  and  basted  over  with  butter,  to  m^ke  her  the  more ' 
fit  to  be  eaten,   and  may  roast  the  better :  put  then  fire  about  her,  but ' 
do  not  make  too  much  haste,  when  as  you  see  her  begin  to  roast ;  for 
by  walking  about,  and  flying  here  and  there,  being  cooped  in  by  the' 
fire  that  stops  her  way  out,"  the  unwearied  Goose  is  kept  in  ;  she  will 
fall  to  drink  the  water  to  quench  her  thirst  and  cool  her  heart,  and  all 
her  body,  and  the  Apple  Sauce  will  make  her  dung  and  cleanse  and 
empty  her.     And  when  she  roasteth,  and  consumes  inwardly,  always 
vret  her  head  and  heart  with  a  wet  sponge  ;  and  when  you  see  her  giddy' 
with  running,  and  begin  to  stumble,  her  heart  wants  moisture,  and  she 
is  roasted  enough.     Take  her  up,  set  her  before  your  guests,  and  she 
Vill  cry  as  you  cut  off  any  part  firora  her,  and  will  be  almost  eaten  up 
before  she  be  dead  ;  it  is  mighty  pleasant  to  behold ! !— See  Wecker's 
Secrets  of  Nature,  in  folio,  London,  1660,  pp.  148,  300.* 

"We  suppose  Mr.  Mizald  stole  this  receipt  from  the  kitchen  of  his 
Infernal  Mtijesty ;  probably  it  might  have  been  one  of  the  dishes  the' 
devil  ordered  when  he  invited  Nero  and  Caligula  to  a  feast. — A,  C, 
Jvn. 

Thisis  also  related  in  Baptista  "Port a's  Natural MagickCj  foil.  1658, 
p>  321.  This  very  curious  (but  not  scarce)  Book  contains  among  other 
strange  tricks  and  fancies  of  **  the  Olden  Time,'*  directions,  "  how  to 
Roast  and  Boil  a  fowl  at  the  same  time,  so  that  one-half  shall  he' 
Roasted  and  the  other  Boiled  ;"  and  "  if  you  have  a  lacke  of 
Coofc«,  hovD  to  persuade  a  Goose  to  roast  himself  I  P* — See  a  second 
Act  of  the  above  Tragedy  in  page  80,  of  the  Gentleman's  Magazine 
for  January  1809. 

Many  articles  were  in  vogue  in  the  14th  century,  which  are  now  obso- 
lete.   We  add  the  following  specimens  of  the  Colinart  Affairs  of' 
DatsofYorb. 

.  Sauce  for  a  Goose,  A,D.  1381. 

**  Take  a  faire  panne,  and  set  hit  under  the  Goose  whill  she  rostes; 
«Dd  kepe  clene  the  grese  that  droppes  thereof,  and  put  thereto  a  godele 
<good  deal)  of  Wyn,  and  a  litel  vinegur,  and  verjus,  and  onyons 
mynced,  or  garlek ;  then  take  the  gottes  (gut)  of  the  Goose  and  slitte 
horn,  and  scrape  hom  dene  in  water  and  salt,  and  so  wash  horn,  and 
hack  horn  small,  then  do  all  this  togedur  in  a  piffenet  (pipkin)  and  do 
thereto  raisinge»  of  corance,  and  poader  of  pepur  and  of  ginger  and  of 
canell,  and  bole  Clowes  and  maces,  and  let  hit  boyle  and  serve  hit 
forthe." 

**  That  unwieldy  marine  animal  the  Porpos  was  dressed  in  a  variety 
of  modes,  salted,  roasted,  stewed,  <fec.  Our  ancestors  were  not  sin-* 
golar  in  their  partiality  to  it ;  I  find,  from  an  ingenious  friend  of  miue^ 
^QBtit  is  even  now,  A.D.  1790,  5old  in  the  markets  of  most  towns  in 


*  «, 


See  Note  to  No.  69,  how  to  plump  the  liver  of  a  Goose. 

C 


!^.  INTRaDUCTION. 

Pqrtn^al;  the  flesb  of,  it  is  intolerably,  hard  aod  nmad."— Warbije^ii's 
4ntiq.  Cuf,  4to,  p.  13. 

"  The  Swan*  wa^  also  a  dish  of  state,  and  in  high  fashion  when,  the 
e^e^anoe  of  the  Feast  'was  estimated  by  the  magnitude  oC  the  articles 
of,  which  it  was  composed  ;  the  number  consumed  at  the  Earl  of  Nor- 
th^imberland's  table,  A.D.  1512,  amounted  to  twenty ."^N-ortrum- 
i^Rl^LAiip  Hq^f^hold  Book,  p.  108. 

<<  The  Qra;n^,  was  a  darling  dainty  in.  William  the  Conqueror's 
t^me»  and  so  partial  was  that  monarch  to  it,  that  w.ben  his  prinoe 
f|ivQU{jite,  William  Fitz  Osborne,  the  steward  of  the  household,  served 
hjn^  with  a  Criine  scarcely  half  roasted,  the  ^ing  was  so  highly  exaspe- 
rated, that  he  lifted  up  his  fist,  and  wpuld  have  strupkeo  him^  had  not 
I^^io  (appointed  Dapifer  imnjediately  after)  warded  oflf  the  blow/* — 
Warmrr's  Antiq.  CuL  p.  12. 

Sraij^,  Cdrlbws,  Herons,  Bitterns,  and  the  Peacock — that 
noble  bird  **  the  food  of  Lovers  and  the  meat  of  Lords,"  were  also  at 
this  time  in  high  fashion,  when  the  Baronial  Entertainments  were  cba- 
rpictwized  by  a  grandeur  and  pompqus  ceremonial,  approaching  nearly 
tp  the  magnificence  of  Royalty :  there  was  sctMPceiy  any  Royal  or 
NQble  feast  without  Pecokkrs,  which  were  stuffed  with  Spices  and 
Sweetherbs,  roasted  and  served  up  whole,  and  covered  after  dressing 
with  the  skin  and  feathers ;  the  beal^  and  comb  gilt,  and  the  tail  spread, 
a^jd  some,  instead  of  the  feathers,  covered  it  with  leaf  gold ;  it  was  a 
qqmmon  dish  on  grand  occasions,  and  continued  to  adorn  the  English 
1|ible  till  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century. 

In  Massinger's  Play  of. "  the  City  Madam,''  Holdfast  exdaimin^: 
agi^nst  city  luxury,  sayjs,  "  three  fat  wethers  bruised,  to  make  sauce 
fpH  a  single  Peacock.*' 

This  Bird  is  one  of  those  luxuries  which  were  often  sought^  because 
the^, were  seldom  found:  its  scarcity  and  extemar appearance  are  its 
Qi^}'.  recommendatipn — the  meat  of  it  is  tough  and  tasteless. 

Another  favourite  dish  at  the  tables  of  our  forefathers,  was  a  Pie  of 
stupendous  magnitude,  out  of,  which,  on  its.  being  opened,  a  flock  of 
living  birds  flew  forth,  to  the  no  small  surprise  and  amusement  of  the 
guests. 

**  Four-and-twenty  Blackbirds  bakM  in  a  Pie ; 

''  WJien.the  Pie  was  opened  the  biids  began  to  sing— 

<*  Ob !  what  a  daipty  dish— 'tis  flt  for  any  King." 

This  was  a  common  Joke  at  an  old  English  Feast.  These  animated 
Pies  were  often  introdueed  "to  set  on,*'  as  Hamlet  says,  "  a  quantity 

'  i...  .     Ill     .   nil  ■  I  ^11  I        ■       I       I    [      _  ^  I  li-> 

*  It  h  a  curious  illustration  of  the  de  gitstihtis  non  est  disputm- 
du,my  that  the  ancients  considered  the  Swa^i  as  a  high  delicacy,  and 
abstained  from  the  flesh  of  the  Goose  as  impure  and  indigestible."— 
MofJBRAT  on  Poultrff,  p.  36. 


INTROBUGTION.  27 


of  b«rreii  speetaiOTS  to  laufsh ;''  tbevft  it  an  instanoa  of  a  Dwarf  und«r- 
goinflr  such  an  f>tcniff(a/ioii.  About  the  year  1030,  Kiagr  Charles  aod 
bis  Qaeen  were  eatertaiiied  bjr  the  Dtike  and  Ducbesg  of  Buokineham, 
at  Biuieigb  on  the  HiU,  on  whioh  occasion  Jbpf»bv  Hudson,  the 
Dwarf,  was  senred  up  in  a  cold  Bie. — See  Walpolb's  Anecdotts  of 
PMtmtmgf  toL  ii.  p.  14« 

The  BjiRON  OP  Bkbv  was  another  favourite  and  subsiaotial  support 
of  uld  BogUsh  Hospitality. 

Among  the  most  polished  nation»of  the  I5tb  and  10th  oenturieni  the 
potodered  (salted)  Hotm,  seems  to  have  been  a  dish  in  some  esteem  : 
Grimalkin  herself  could  not  escape  the  undistinguishing  ftuy  of  ttie 
Cook.  Don  Anthony  of  Guevera,  the  Chronicler  to  Charles  V.,  ^ivies 
tbe  iollowiBg  aceonm  of  a  ("east  at  which  he  was  prpwnt.  **  I  will  tell 
yoa  DO  lye,  I  sawe  such  kindes  of  roeates  eaten,  as  are  wont  to  be 
seoe,  butnoteateo — as  a  Horsb  roasted^a  Cat  in  gely — Lveards  in 
hot  brotfae,  Frogobs  fried/'  <fec. 

While  we  are  thus  considering  the  curious  dishes  of  olden  times,  we 
will  cursorily  mem  ion  tbe  singntar  diet  of  two  or  thiee  nations  of 
aatiqiiity,  noted  by  Herodotus,  lib.  iv.  *'  The  if  iiifroj»Aa^t  (the  cannibals 
of  the  ancient  world)  greedily  -  devoured  tbe  carcasses  of  their  fellow 
creatuies;  while  the  inoffensive  Gahri  (a  Scythian  tribe)  found  both 
food  and  drink  in  tbe  agreeable  nut  of  the  Poutic  Tree.  The  LoiO' 
pAagi  lived  entimly  on  the  fruit  of  the  Lotue  Tree.  Tbe  savage  Trog- 
lodyte esteemed  a  living  serpent  tbe  most  delicate  of  all  morseb ; 
while  tbe  capricious  palate  of  the  Zygfiniini,  preferred  the'^j9«  to 
every  thimi^r"— V4de  Warnbr's  Jnftg.  Cut,  p.  135. 

"  The  Romans^  in  the  luxurious  period  of  their  empire,  took  five 
nseab  a  day ;  a  Breakfast  (jenfaculusn)  ;  a  Dinner,  which  was  a  light 
meal  without  aay  formal  preparation  (prandium) ;  a  kind  of  Tea,  as 
we  should  call  it,  between  dinner  and  supper  {mertnida) ;  a  Supper 
{^esna),  which  was  their  great 'Bieal,  and  commonly  consisted  of  two* 
courses ;  tbe  ftr&t  of  meats,  the  second,  what  we-  call  a  Dessert ;  and  a 
Posset,  or  somethisg  delicidua  after  supper,  {commissatio)" — A  dart's 
Horn.  Antiq*  p.  4ft4  and  447. 

The  Romans  usually  began  their  entertaiaments  with  eggs,  and 
ended  with  fruits;  hence  A&ovo  usqcb  ad  mala,  from  the  banning 
to  tbe  end  of  supper,  Horat.  Sat,  i.  3.  0. ;  Cie,  Fam.  ix.  W^ 

Tbe  dishes  (einlia^  held  in  the  highest  estimaticm  by  tbe  Romans, 
are  enumerated,  Gell.  vii.  16.  Maerob,  Sat*,  ii.  9,  Mfstrtial  v.  79.  ix.  46. 
xi.  53.  4ec.  a  Peacock,  (pavo,  v.  ua)  Horat,  Sat,  ii.  2.  23.  Juvenal  i. 
143.  first  used  by  Hortensius,  the  orator,  at  a  supper,  which  be  gave 
when  admitted  into  the  college  of  priests,  (aditiali  eana  sacerdotii), 
Plin.  z.  20.  s.  23.  a  pheasant,  (phasiana,  ex  Pfaasi  Colcftidis  Jbivio), 
Ifartial.  iii.  58.  xiiL  72.  Senec.  ad  Helv.  9.  Petron.  79.  Manil.  v.  372. 
a  bird  called  Attagen  vel-fna,  from  Ionia  or  Phrygia,  Horat,  Epod.  ii. 
64,  Martial,  xiii.  61.  a  guinea  hen,  (am's  Afra^  Horat.  ibid.  Gallina 
Numidico  vel  Jfricana,  Juvenal,  xi.  142.  Martial,  xiii.  73.)  a  Meliaa 
crane;  an  Ambracian  kid;  nightingales,  luscini€e;  thrushes,  turdi, 
dacks,  geese,  Ac,    Tomaculcm,  j[a  Ti/tAvcv),  vel  Isicidm,  (ab  Hueco ;) 

C2 


28  INTRODOCTION,  ; 

sausages  or  puddings,  Juvenal,  x.  355.  'Martial.  42.  0.  Petron,  3t.~^' 
See  Adam's  Aomon  Jntiquitiei,  2d  Edition,  8vo.  1792,  p.  447. 

That  the  English  reader  may  be  enabled  to  fonn  some  idea  of  thcf  - 
heterogeneous  messQS  with  which  the  Roman  Palate  was  delighted,  M 
introduce  the.  following  Receipt  from  j4pieius» 

"  Thick  Sauce  for  a  Boiled  Chicken. — Put^  the  following  in-  ^ 
gradients  into  a  Mortar :  Aniseed,  dried  Mint,  and  Lazer  Root,  (similar 
to  Asafoetida),  cover  them  with  vinegar ;  add  dates ;  pour  in  Liquamen,   * 
Oil,  and  a  small  quantity,  of  Mustard  Seeds — reduce  all  to  a  proper 
thidcness  with  Port  Wine  warmed ;  and  then  pour  this  same  over  your 
Chicken,  which  should  previously  be  boiled  in  Anise-seed  water.'' 

Liquamen  and.  Garum  were  synonymous  terms  for  the  same  thing  ; 
the  former  adopted  in  the  room  of  the  latter,  about  the  age  of  Aure-  - 
lian.  It  was  a  Liquid,  and  thus  prepared :  The  Guts  of  large  Fish  and 
a  variety  of  small  Fish,  were  put  into..a  vessel  and  well  salted,  and  ex-  - 
posed  to  the  Sun  till  they  became  putrid.  A  liquor  was  produced  in  a 
i!>bort  time,:which.being  strained  off,  was  the  Liquamen, — Vide  Lister 
311  Apieiam,  p.  1 6,  notes. 

Essence  qf  Anchovy ^  as  it  is  usually  made  for  sale,  when  it  has  beeir' 
opened  about  ten  days,  is  not  much  unlike  the  Roman  Liquamen.    See 
No.  433.    Some  suppose  it  was  the  same  thing  as  the  Russian  Canuxr,  • 
which  is  prepared  from  the  Roe  of  the  Sturgeon., 

The  BiiACK  Broth  of  Lacedeemon  will  long  continue  to  excite  the 
wonder  of  the  Philosopher,  and  the  disgust  of  the  Epicure.    What  the 
ingredients  of  this  sable  composition  were,  we  cannot  exactly  ascertain. 
Jul.  Pollux  says,  the  Lacedaemonian  Black  Broth  was  blood,  thickened ' 
in  a  certain,  way*.  Dr.  Lister  (in  Apicium)  supposes  it  to  have  been 
hog*s  blood ;  if  so,. this  celebrated  Spartan  dish  bore  no  very  distant* 
resemblance  to  the  blnck-puddings  of  our.  days.    It  could  not  be  a  very  • 
alluring  mess,  since  a,  citizen  of  Sybaris  having  tasted  it,  declared  it 
was  no  longer  a  matter  ;of  astonishment  with  him,  why  the  Spartans 
were  so  fearless  of  death,  since  any  one  in  his  senses  would  much  rather 
die,  than  exist  on  such .  execrable  food.  Vide  Athenaeum,  L.  iv.c.  3. 
When  Dionysius  the  Tyrant  had  tasted  the  Black  Broth,he  exclaimed - 
against  it  as  miserable  stuff;  the  Cook  replied — <<  It  was  no  wonder, 
for  the  sauce  was  wanting."    "  What  sauce?"  says  Dionysius.    The  • 
wasweryffis,'^*'  Labour. ttnd  exercise,  hunger  and  thirit,  these  are-- 
the  sauces  we.  Lacedaemonians  use"  and  they  make  the  coarsest  fare 
agreeable.    Cicbro,  3  Tuscul. 


INVITATIONS  TO  DINNER. 


In  **^  the  affairs  of  the  Mouth^*  the  strictest  punctuality  is 
indispensable ; — ^the  Gastronomer  ought  to  be  as  accu- 
rate an  observer  of  Time,  as  the  Astronomer.  The  least 
-  'delay  produces  fatal  and^  irreparable  Misfortunes, 

Almost  all  other  Ceremonies  and  Civil  Duties  may  be 
put  oflP  for  several  hours  without  much  inconvenience,  and 
.all  may  be  postponed  without  absolute  Danger.  A  little 
Delay,  may'  try  the  patience  of  those  who  are  wailing;,  but 
the  act  itself  will  be  equally  perfect  and  equally  valid. — Pro- 
crastination sometimes  is  rather  advantageous  than  prejudi- 
cial, r  It  gives  time  for  Reflection — and  may  prevent  our 
takin?  a  step  which  would  have  made  us  miserable  for  Life; 
*the  delay  of  a  Courier  has  prevented  the  conclusion  of 
a  Convention,  the  signing  of  which  might  have  occasioned 
the  ruin  of  a  Nation. 

If,  from  Affairs  the  most  important,  we  descend  to  our 
Pleasures  and  Amusements,  we  shall  find  new  arguments 
in  support  of  our  assertions.  The  putting  off  of  a  Rendez- 
vous^ or  a  Ball,  &c.  will  make  them  the  more  delightful. 
.To  hope  is  to. enjoy, 

"  Man  never  is,  but  always  to  be  blest," 

The  anticipation  of  Pleasure  warms   our  imagination,  and 
keeps    those    feehngs  alive,    which    Possession    too  ofteii 
•  extinguishes. 

**''Tis  Expectation  only  makes  us  blest; 
"  Enjoyment  disappoints  us  at  the  best.'* 

Dr.  Johnson  has  most  sagaciously  said :  "  Such  is  the 
state  of  Life,  that  none  are  happy ^  but  by  the  anticipation  of 
Charige :  the  change  itself  is  nothing ;  when  we  have  made 
it,  the  next  wish,  is  immediately  to  change  again." 

However  singular  our  assertions-  may  have  at  first  ap- 
peared to  those  who  have  not  considered  the  subject,  we 
hope  by  this  time  we  have  made  converts  of  our  readers,  and 


30  INVITATIONS  TO    DINNER. 

* 

convinced  the  "  Amateurs  de  Boniie  Chh'e "  of  the  truth 
and  importance  of  our  remarks ;  and  that  they  will  remem- 
her,  that  Dinner  is  the  only  act  of  the  day  whioh  tannot  be 
put  off  with  Impunity^  for  even  five  minutes. 

In  a  well  regulated  family,  all  ihe  Clocks  and  Watches 
should  agree ;  on  this  depends  the  fate  of  the  Dinner ;  vokat 
would  be  agreecdfle  to  t%e  Stomachy  and  reHorulnfe  to  the 
System,  if  served  at  fite  oV/od^, — will  be  uneatable  and  m- 
nutritive  and  indigestible  at  A  quarter  TAST. 

The  Dining  room  should  be  ftimiished  with  a  jB^ood  gomg 
clock ; — *he  space  over  the  Kitchen  fire-place  with  another^ 
vibrfiCting  in  unison  with  the  former,  so  placed,  thsrtthe  CSook 
may  keep  one  Eye  on  the  Clock,  amd  the  other  on  the  Spit, 
&c.  She  will  caknalate  to  a  minilte  the  time  required  ta 
roast  a  large  Capon  or  a  little  Lark,  an^  is  equally  allentive 
to  the  degree  of  heat  of  lier  ^ove,  and  the  time  her  Saiaoe 
remains  on  it,  when  to  withdraw  the  Bakings  from  tbe  oven, 
the  Roast  from  the  spit,  and  the  Stew  from  the  pan. 

With  «11  our  Love  of  punctuality,  the  fitst  coMsiiderati©n 
must  still  be,  that  the  Dinner  **  be  wdl  done,  tohen  *pis 
done,^* 

It  is  a  common  fault  with  Ck)oks  who  ate  tmxious  abotU 
Time  to  overdress  every  thing — ^the  Guests  had  b^er  w^ait 
than  the  Dinner — a  little  delay  will  improve  their  Appetile  ;• 
but  if  the  Dinner  waits  for  the  Guests,  ift  will  be  detmcmtted 
every  minute : — ^The  Host  who  wishes  to  etttertatin  his  firietids 


*  **  n  y  a  trois  sortes  d'appcstits  ;  celui  que  l*oii  ^prouve  k  jeC^oe; 
sensatibn  Imp^riease  qui  ne  chicane  point  sar  le  mets,  et  qui  tous  fait 
venir  Teau  a  la  boucbe  a  I'aspect  d'un  bon  ragoiit.  Je  le^3enipere«i] 
desir  imp^tueux  d^  jeune  bomme  qui  voit  sourire  la  beauts  qu'il 
aime.—  Le  second  app^tit  est  celui  que  Ton  ressent  lorsque,  s'etant  mis 
k  table  sans  faim,  ou  a  deja  godte  d'un  plat  succulent,  et  qui  a  consacr^ 
le  prarverbe,  Vappitft  vient  en  niangeant,  Je  rasstmUe  k  V^tai  d''un 
roari  dont  le  oceur  tiede  s'tebauffe  aux  premieres  caresses  de  sa  ferame. 
--  Le  troisthne  appfetit  est  cdiii  qu'excite  un  mets  delicieux  qui  parait 
a  la  fin  d'un  repas,  lorsque,  Teistomac  satisfait,  Tbomme  sbbpe  alluit 
quitter  la  table  situs  regret.  €elui-la  troure  son  embli^me  dausles  fem 
du  libertinage,  qui,  qooiqne  illosoires,  foot  naHre  oependafTt  quelques 
lUaisirs  r^eis.  Ia  connoissance  de  cette  m^tapbysiqtte  de  l^appetit  iloit 
giiider  la  CuisLnier  babil^  dans  la  composition  du  premier,  du  second,  et 
du  troisieme  service."— C«tir*  Gastronomipie,  p.  64. 


INVITATIONS  TO  JMNNER.  31 

t»kh  fodd  'f)^[4b6ily  well  Jli^^eA,  while  he  indst  e^ives^v  €!i!r- 

pun^iM  to  the  %p|)bmted  hoiiri— wiH  still  alloW  his  Cook  ^ 
tjuatter  of  an  %fbtir'is  grace. 

Thfe  old  Adage  ll^t  «<%he  %e  is  dftefh  big^r  than  the 
Belly,"  is  often  verified  by  the  ridicutdii!i»  vJinity  of  thofiM, 
who  ti^sh  to  -mlike  an  appearance  above  thdr  foAune-^ 
noltiiiig  cato  h^  thofe  ¥uin6uB  ^o  ^eal  (kHtifprt  thaii  the  too 
common  cmstoin  'of  'seftii%  oiit  iai  tablis.  With  a  parade  and 
a  pirottlisioti,  %nsUited  not  cltily  to  the  ci'rctim^talices'of  the 
Host,  but  to  the  number  of  thfe  Gii^to :— or  more  fetiil 
to  tbae  MospitkliQr,  Ihan  t^  ]Snihi!i^icity  <tf  dished  which 
Inxni^  has  ih^^  'feshicMable  &t  1^^  ^tahl^  cff  the  <3reat,  the 
W^llhjr-^ki^d  th^  Osteiitel^ti^^^^bb  a¥e,  ofCeR,  heithier 
pesit  nor  ^&Miy. 

Su<^h  ^mpchls  pi<^ptrrafi6B,  iftste^id  of  being  a  coUhplinieilt 
to  our  Guests,  is  rtbthing  bettfer  than  ttn  indirect  offence ; 
it  is  a  t&LCk  insitiu^tidn-,  that  it  i^  absolutely  necessary  to 
f>>oVide  such  delicaci^  to  btibe  the  d«l{iAivity  of  their  paAaites, 
wlifen  'we  desrire  ^e  pleasu^re  df  theifr  cbmpiafiy,  and  that  So^ 
dety  in  Ehgland,  now,  must  be  purchai^  Hi  Afe  itotnfe  price 
Swift  told  Pope,  he  was  obligea  to  pay  for  it  in  Ireland-^ 
*•  ^  should  bardly  prevail  to  find  onfe  VisitoY,  if  I  #ere  not 
abte  to  bife  him  wi«h  a  bdttle  of  Wiwfe.^'  Vidie  SlwWrls 
Letters  lo  iPo>PE,  J%  1(»A,  1731 

When  tivice  as  much  Coblnng  is  utidfertitkeh  as  theVe  hite 
-Se'rvattJEs,  or  (tonv^riicinces  'in  the  Kitchen  to  do  it  fir^xperly. 
Dishes  must  be  dressed  long  before  the  Dinner  hour,  and 
stand  by  spoilit^-^the  poot  Cook  lo^es  her  credit,  ^d  the 
poor  guests  get  hidigesdons.  Why  prepare  for  eight  or  ten 
Friends^  more  tlian  sufficient  for  twenty  or  thirty  Visitors  ? 
**  Enough  is  as  good  as  a  Feasty^  and  a  prudent  provider, 
who  sensibly  takes  measure  of  the  Stomachic,  instead  of  the 
Silly  oduter,  ap^ite  of  his  Guests,  may  fentertain  his 
Friends, — three  times  as  often,  and  ten  times  as  Well. 

It   is  your  Senseless   second    courses — ridiculous 
variety  of  Wines,  Liqueurs,  Ices*,  JDesserts,  &c, — ^which 

•  Swilling  cold  Soia  Water  immediately  after  eating  a  hearty  dio- 
Ber»  iis  a'Dotb^  vety  unwholesome  custom — talce  good  Ginger  Beer  if 
fon  are  thirsty,  and  don't  lilce  Sir  John  Barleycorn's  cordial. 


i32  INVITATIOKS    TO  DINN£R« 

.lire  served  up  merely  to  feed  the  Eye,  or  pamper  palled  ^p» 

■  petite  that  overcome  the  Stomachy  and  paralyze  Digestion^  and 

seduce  .**  children  of  alars^er  Growth  "  to  sacrifice  the  health 

and  comfort  of  several  days, — for  the  Baby-pleasure  of  tick- 

.  ling  their  tongue    for  a   few    minutes,  with   Trifles    and 

Custards  ! ! !  kc.  &c. 

"  Indigestion  will  sometimes  overtake  the  most  ex- 

,perienced  Epicure;  when  the  gustatory  nerves  are  in  good 

humour.  Hunger  and  Savoury  Viands  will  sometimes  seduce 

the  Tongue  of  a  "  Grand  Gourmand*^  to  betray  the  interests 

of  his  Stomach  in  spite  of  his  Brains. 

'*  On  such  an  imfortunate  occasion,  when  the  Stomach 
.  sends  forth  eructant*  signals  of  distress,  the  Peristaltic  Per- 
•smders  are  as  agreeable  and  effectual  assistance .  as  can  be 
offered ;  and  for  delicate  Constitutions,  and  those  that  are  im- 
paired by  Age  or  Intemperance,  are  a  valuable  Panacea, 

"  They  derive,  and  deserye  this  name,  from  the  peculiar 
.mildness  of  their  operation.  One  or  two  very  gently  increase 
the  action  of  the  principal  viscera,  help  them  to  do  their 
,.work  a  little  fasiter,  and  enable  the  Stomach  to  serve  with 
an  ejectment  whatever  offends  it,  and  move  it  into  the 
Bowels. 

"  Thus  Indigestion  is  easily, and  speedily  removed, — ^p^ 
petite  restpred, — (the  mouths  of  the  absorbing  vessels  being 
cleansed)  Nutrition  is  facilitated,7-and  <Sifren^f  A  of  Body,  and 
^Energy  of  Mind,  are  the  happy  results."— See  "  Peptic 
Precepts,"  from  which  we  extract  the  following, prescript 
.  iion-7- 

To  make  Forty  Peristaltic  Persuaders, 
Take 

Turkey  Rhubarb,  finely  pulverized— two  draebms. 
Syrup,  (by  weight)  one  drachm. 
Oil  of  Carrawny,  ten  drops  (minims) 
Made  into  Pills,  each  of  which  will  coQtain  Three 
Grains  qf  Rhubarb, 


*  The  Strong  Peppermint  or  Ginger  Lozenge^y  made  by  Smitb» 
Fell  Street,  Wood  Street,  Cheapside,  are  an  excelleot  help  for  that  flatu- 
leiice  with  which  some  aged  and  dyspeptic  people  are  afBlcted  three  or 
foiir  hours  after  Dinner. 


•lN-VtTATlONS  TO  DiNNEft.  33 

'  **  The  Dose  of  the  PeiTsvad&rs  most  be  adapted  to  the 
constitutional  peculiarity  of  the  Pati6nt — when  you  wish  to 

•  accelerate  or  augment  the  Alviiife  Exoneration — ^take  two— - 
three — or  more,  according  to  the  effect  you  desire  to  produce 

' ' — Two  Pil/s  will  do  as  much  for  one  person,  as^rc  or  six 

will  for  another ;  they  will  generally  very  regularly  perform 

what  you  wish  to  day,i— without  interfering  with  what  you 

-bopewill  happen  to-morrow; — and  are  therefore  as  con ve- 

iniefit  an'  argument  against  Constipation  as  any  we  are  ac- 

•  quainted  with* 

**  The   most  convenient  opportunity  to  introduce  them  io 
the  Stomachy — is  early  in  the  morning,  when  it  is  unoccu- 

•  |»ed,  and  has  no  particular  business  of  Digestion,  &c.  to  attend 

•  to— i.  e.  at  least  half  an  hour  before  breakfast.  Physic  must 
-never  interrupt  the  Stomach,  when  it  is  busy  in  digesting 
'Food. 

*•  From  two  to  four  Persuaders,  will  generally  produce  one 

'  additional  motion,-  within  twelve  hours.     They  may  be  taken 

'  at  any  time  by  the  most  delicate  Females,  whose  constitutions 

are  so  often  distressed  by  constipation — ^and  destroyed  by  the 

drastic  purgatives  they  take  to  relieve  it.*' 

TTie  Cloth*  should  be  laid  in  the  Parlour,  and  all  the  para- 

•  phernalia  of  the  dinner  table  completely  arranged,  at  least 
'half  an  hmir  before  dinner  time. 

The  Cook's  labour  will  be  lost,  if  the  Parlour  table  benot 
'  ready  for  action,  and  the  Eaters  ready  for  the  Eatables,  which 
the  least  delay  will  irreparably  injure: — therefore,  the  Gour- 
mand will  be  punctual  for  the  sake  of  gratifying  his  ruling 

•  passion ;  :  the  Invalid,  to  avoid'  the  danger  of  encounter- 
ing an  Indigestion  from  eatins:  ill-dressed  food ;  and  the 
Rational  Epicure,  who  happily  attends  the  Banquet  with 
**  mens  sana  in  corpore  «awo,"  will  kee]^the  time  not  only 
for  these  strong  reasons,  but  that  he  may  not  lose  the  ad  van- 

•    •—  -        ■  -I  •'  ■  II         I  -  -  '       •-  -■-  -I      ■■  -■.-..-■■  1    ■■    I   .-    1    II       r- 

*  L^  Grand ^emmelier,  or  Chief  Bltlbr,  in  former  timesr  was  ex- 
pected to  be  especially  accomplished  in  the  Art  of  folding  Table  Linen— 
jio  as  to  lay  his  napkins  in  different  forms  every  day — these  transforma- 
tioos  are  particiilarly  described  in  Rosses  InstrMitions  for  the  Officers  of 
the  Mouth,  1682,  p.  Ill,  <fec.  <*  To  pleat  a  napkin  in  the  form  of  a 
Cockle-Shell:  Double.''— **  In  the  form  of-^Hen  and  Chickenis''— **  shape 
•t)f  two  capons  in  a  Pye'-'— -or  <<  like  a  D(^  with  a  Collar  about  bis  Ndek'' 
'—and  intiDy  other  others  equally  wbinosieai^ 

c  5 


34  INVITATIONS  TO   DINNER. 

tage  of  being  introduced  to  the  other  Guests.  He  consklers 
not  only  what  is  on  the  Table^  but  Who  are  around  it.:  his 
priiicipai  inducement  to  leave  his  own  Fire^side,  is  tlie  cbarHi 
of  a^eable  and  instructive  Society,  and  the  opportunity  of 
makmg  connexions,  which  may  augment  the  interest  and  en- 
joyment of  existence. 

It  is  the  mostplecuing  part  of  the  Duty  (^  the  Master  ef 
the  Feast,  (especially  when  the  Guests  are  not  very  nume- 
rous,*) to  take  advantage  of  these  moments  to  introduce  them 
to  one  another,  naming  them  individually  in  an  audible  voice, 
and  adroitly  laying  hiM.  of  those  ties  of  acquaintanceship  or 
profession  which  may  exist  between  them. 

This  will  much  augment  the  pleasures  of  the  Festive  Boaird, 
-^jo  which  it  is  indeed  as  indipensablea  Prelude,  as  an  Over- 
ture is  to  an  Opera:  and  the  Host  will  thus  acquire  an  addi- 
tional claim  to  the  gratitude  of  his  Guests.  We  urge  this 
point  more  strongly,  because,  from  want  of  attention  to  it»  we 
have  seen  more  than  once,  persons  whom  many  kindred  ties 
would  have  drawn  closely  together,  pass  an  entire  day  without 
opening  their  lips  to  each  other,  because  they  were  mutually 
ignorant  of  each  other*s  names,  professions  and  pursuits. 

To  put  an  end  at  once  to  all  Ceremony  as  to  The  Ordet  in 
which  the  Guests  are  to  Sit^  it  will  save  much  time  and  trouble 
if  the  Mistress  of  the  Mansion  adopts  the  simple  and  elegaot 
method  of  placing  the  name  of  each  Guest  in  the  plate  which 
is  intended  for  him. — This  proceeding,  will  be  of  course  the 
result  of  consideration,  and  the  Host  will  place  those  together 
who  he  thinks  will  harmonize  best. 

Le  Journal  des  Darms  informs  us,  that  in  several  fashion- 
able houses  in  Paris,  a  new  arrangement  has  been  introduced 
in  placing  the  company  at  a  Dinner  table. 

^'  The  Ladies  M(t  take  their  places,  leaving  intervals  for  the 
Gentlemen ;  ^^^^eing  seated,  each  is  desired  to  call  on  a 
gentleman  to  sit  beside  her ;  and  thus  the  Lady  of  the  house 
IS  relieved  frdm  all  embarrassment  of  etiqtiette  as  to  rank  and 
pretensions,"  &c. 

''^*,-    ■  -  ■  -  -      ■  ■  - 

*  '*  DepniR  long-temps  le  norobre  des  Gr&ees  on  eelui  des  Muses  a 
regl£  les  diners  aimaUes ;  paa^  ce  dernier  nombre  il  n'y  a  plus  ni  inti- 
mit^^  ni  conversation  g6n^cate.''*-Co«r»  Gastronomiqm,  p.  311. 


INVITATIOI^S  TO  DINNER.  35 

But  without  doubt,  sa^s  the  Jouriiatii^t,  this  method  has  it^ 
incoiiVetiielice&. 

<^  tt  ma^  happen  that  a  bashful  Bleauty  date  not  nkMe  the 
object  of  tfetfeeci'et  Wishes,  and  ati  acute  obsserver  tnay  dfeter- 
iiiine,  fVoiii  a  single  glance,  that  the  eUctkd  is  ndi  always  the 
chosen.*' 

If  the  Patty  is  la^,  the  Founders  of  the  Feast  ttiajr  sit  in 
the  middle  of  the  ^ble,  instead  of  at  each  end,  thus  they 
will  enjoy  the  pleasure  of  attending  equally  to  all  their  Friends, 
and  being  in  sotne  degfee  relieved  from  the  occupatioii  of 
Carving,  will  have  an  Opportunity  of  administering  all  those 
little  attentions  which  contribute  so  much  to  the  comfcfrl  of 
their  Guests. 

If  the  Guests  have  any  respect  for  their  Host,  6t  prefer 
a  well-dressed  diriiier  to  one  that  is  spoiled,  instead  of  coming 
hdlf  ah  fcottV*  tifieTy  they  will  take  cate  to  niake  their  appear* 
ance  a  quarter  of  dn  hour  befcPre  thie  time  appointed. 

The  operations  of  the  Cook  are  governed  by  the  Clock : 
the  moment  the  ttoasts,  §-c.  are  ready  ^  they  must  goto  the 
Uble,  if  they  are  to  be  eaten  in  perfection. 

An  invitation  tocbme  at  Five  d'clock  seeins  to  be  generally 
underwood  to  ttiean<S'/a:;Fi via  precisely,  half  paa  Five  ;-^ 
aiid  NOT  LATteR  THAN  FiVE,  (so  that  Dintier  may  be  on  the 
table  within  five  minutes  after,  allowing  this  for  the  variation 
of  watches,)  FiVfi  o'clock  exactly. 

Be  it  known  to  all  Latjal  Subjects  of  the  Empire  of  Crood^ 
living  that  the  Committee  of  Taste  have  unanimduslv  re- 
solved, that  "  dn  Invitation  to  ETA.  beta.  pi.  must  oe  in 
Writing^  and  sent  at  least  ten  days  before  the  Banquet— 
and  must  he  answered  in  Wtiting  fas  soo%  as  posHble  after  it 
is  received) — within  Twenty-four  houfs  at^easV — especially 
if  it  be  not  accepted — ^then,  ih  addition  te  the  usual  compli- 
niefttary  expressions  of  thanks,  &c.  the  be^  possible  reasons 
must  be  assigned  for  the  non-acceptance,  as  a  particular  pre- 
enoagement,  or  severe  indisposition,  &c.  Before  the  bearer 
dflt  delivers  it,hfe  should  ascertain  if  the  person  it  is  directed 
to  is  at  home— if  he  is  nbt,  when  he  will  be— and  if  he  is 
not  in  town  to  bring  the  isumtnons  back. 

Nothing  can  be  more  disobliging  than  a  refuisal  which  is 
not  grounded  on  some  very  litrotig  and  unavoidable  cause,— 


36  1N.VITATI0NS  TO  DINNER. 

.except  not  coming  at  the  appointed  hour ; — *'  according  to 

'**  the  Laws  of  Conviviality,  a  certificate  froin  a  Sheriff's  Offi- 

."  cer,  a  Doctor,  or  an  Undertaker,  are  the  oiily  Pleas  which 
"are  admissible.     The  duties  which  Invitation  impose&do 

/*  not  fall  only  on  the  Persons  invited,  but  like  all  other  So- 
•*  cial  duties,  are  reciprocal. 

"  As  he  who  has  accepted  an  Invitation  cannot  disengage 

.**  himself  from  it ;  the  Master  of  the  Feast  cannot  put  oft  the 
*'  entertainment  on  any  pretence  whatever.  Urgent  Busi- 
"  ness, — Sickness,— not  even  Death  itself  can  dispense  with 
**  the  obligation  which  he  is  under  of  giving  the  Entertain- 
•*  ment  for  which  he  has  sent  out  invitations,  which  have 
"  been  accepted ;  for  in  the  extreme  cases  of  compulsory 
♦'  Absence,  or  Death,  his  place  may  be  filled  by  his  Friend  or 

,  •*  Executor." — Fide  le  Manuel  des  Ampliitryons^  8vp. 
jPam,  1808,  et  Cours  Gastronomique^  1809 ;  to  which  the 
reader  is  referred  for  further  Instructions. 

Jt   is  the  least  Punishment  that  a  blundering  ill'^hred 

.  Booby  can  receive^  who  comes  half  an  hgur  after  the  time  he 
was  bidden,  to  find  the  Soup  removed,  and  the  Fish  cold : 

.moreover,  for  such  an  offence,,  let  him  also  be  mulcted  in  a 
pecuniary  Penalty,  to  be  applied  to  the  fund  for  the  be- 

.NEFiT  OF  decaYrd  COOKS.  This  is  the  least  punishment 
that  cai|  be  inflicted  on  one  whose  silence,  or  violation  of  an 
engagement  tends  to  paralyze  an  entertainment,  and  to  draw 
his  friend  into  useless  expense. 

BoiLEAU,  the  French  satirist,  has  a  shrewd  observation  on 

.  tbis  subject.  *'  I  have  always  been  punctual  at, the  hour  of 
•*  Dinner,''  says  the  Bard,  **  for  I  knew,  that  all  those  whom 
"  I  kept  waiting  at  that  provoking  intei'yal,  would  employ 
**  those  unpleasant  moments,  to  sum  up  all  my  faults, — 
P  BoiLEAU  is  indeed  a  man  of  Genius — a  veiy  honest  man  ; 

.  "  but  that  dilatory  and  procrastinating  way  he  has  got  into, 
**  wou!d  mar  the  virtues  of  an  Angel.*' 

There  are  some  who  seldom  keep  an  appointment — we 
<«n  assure  them  they  as  seldom  *•  'scape  without  whipping," 
and  exciting  those  murmurs  which  inevitably  proceed  from 
the  best  regulate  d  Stomachs,  when  they  are  empty  and  impa- 

,lifnt  to  be  filled. 
,    The  most  amiable  Animals  when  hungry,  become  ill-tem- 


r 


CARVING.  37 

pered— our  best  Friends  employ  the  time  they  are  kept  wait- 
ing, in  recollecting  and  repeating  any  real  faults  we  have, 
and  attributing  to  us  a  thousand  imaginary  ones. 

Ill-bred  Bangs,  who  indulge  their  own  caprice,  regardless 
how  they  wound  the  feelings  of  others,  if  they  possess  bril- 
liant and  useful  talents,  may  occasionally  be  endured  as  con- 
venient Tools ;  b«t  deceive  themselves  sadly,  even  though 
they  possess  all  the»Wisdom,  and  all  the  Wit  in  the  World, 
if  they  ^cy  they  can  ever  be  esteemed  as  Friends, 

Wait  for  no  One — as  soon  as  the  Clock  strikes, — say 
Grace,  and  begin  the  Business  of  the  Day — 

*'  And  good  Digestion  l|pt  on  Appetite, 

And  Health  on  both." 

.'1 

That  the  intricate  Old  Canon  iff  "  Non  Nobis"  should 
still  continue  to  exclude  all  other  Graces, — has  excited  my 
astonishment,  ever  since  I  first  heard  it  some  Thirty  Years 
ago,  when,  thought  I,  can  any  thing  be  more  Barbarous  than  to 
sing  in  a  Foreign  Tongue,  of  which  not  Orie  in  Ten  of  those 
who  sing,  and  not  One  in  an  Hundred,  of  those  who  Hear, 
understand  One  Word  in  Ten  of?  Moreover,  to  complete 
this  extreme  Absurdity — ^the  composer  has  contributed  his 
utmost  to  involve  these  Latin  words  in  the  most  absolute 
obscurity,  by  setting  them  in  the  form  of  a  Fugiie,  which 
{however  pretty  it  may  seem  to  th^  Eye  and  Ear  of  a  subtle 
contrapuntist)  as  each  singer  pronounces  a  different  Word, 
the  Sense,  is  thereby,  as  confused  as  Sounds  are  in  a  Dutch 
Concert,  where  each  man  Sings  a  different  Song ! — However, 
this  composition  is  considered  such  an  indispensable  part  of 
the  ceremonial  of  Public  Dinners,  that  it  has  been  calculated 
that  the  good  people  of  Great  Britain  do  not  pay  less  than 
TEN  THOUSAND  POUNDS  a  Year  for  the  performance  of  itj  ! 

Devotion  is  not  excited  by  cramp  Discords  or  difficulties 
of  Execution — Haydn  declared  that  the  most  sublime  effect 
he  ever  heard  produced  by  Music,  was  when  he  attended  the 
Annual  Meeting  of  our  Charity  Children  in  St.  Paul's,  when 
they  all  sung  in  Unisoru 

When  I  last  read  through  "  The  New  Testament,"  I 
^^'^  prompted  by  the  words  in  the  19th  Verse  of  Chapter  xiv. 
of  St,  Paul's  first  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians  t6  compose 


Th£  iEMiGXiisii:  Gbacx:. 


'*  I  had  rather  speak  Five  words  with  my  Upderstandiog,  that  1>7 
my  Voice  I  might  teach  others  also,  than  Ten  Thousand  words  iu  an 
Unlcnown  Tonffue."— Fcrw  19  of  Chap.  XIV,  of  8t.  Pmul't  Firti 
Epistle  to  the  CorifUhian*. 

*<  Sing  ye  Praises  with  Unicrstandiog."— P«a(fi»  XLVIl, 

The  Music  Composed  by  Wa^AM  Kitcbinbk,  M.D.,  Aathor  of  the 

tiH|^oIonging  Life,"   and  Editor  of  the 
airRmd/' 


Art  of  Invigorating  ai 
'*  National  Songs  of  Engl 


1/  &«.  &c.  &e<— 4;hristmas  1826» 


xa: 


m 


JfrecUs       CrOtU JPrauoGodi    JfrwUoGitdi   Jnm 


i 


r.    ■ 


"  *  * 


E 


m 


JfrauoGniU  JPnasoCrOdf   fivm 


~  el  -o  *   "  J  - 


JPrtcii9  CrOdi    fi»m 


^ 


■? 


3=C 


^rM£/     ^1 


Wkrm,jlM  SUs^OHft/UuK  JfrvU*   ■  &edi 


3SE 


B^ 


SL 


Wltfxr^  .AS^  MUis^iryt  fUw:  Jhxueo       G^fdi 


i 


SE 


— O — o        Q    » 

Mes..»bt^f  flfiw:  Praise 


aod,! 


j    ■  —SSL 


i^^ 


33:::- 


-©- 


«^ 


IVhont^  AU  JiUs^xnff  -fUun  ^Bruise        G-oUft 

Xntnved  on  Wood  by  J.  LIE)  7*  UnioiV'plac««  Glty>road. 


CARVING.  39 

MANN]fi«S  MAKfe  THE  MaN. 

Good  Manners  have  often  made  the  Fortune  of  taany, 
who  have  had  nothing  else  to  recommend  them : 

Ijl.1.  Manners  have  as  often  mafred  the  hopes  of  those  who 
have  had  every  thing  else  to  advance  thetn. 

These  regulation*  may  appear  a  little  rigorous  to  those 
phlegmatic  philosophers, 

**  \f  bo,  past  an  pleasures^  damn  the  joys  of  sense, 
"  With  rev'i«iid  dulneas,  and  g^aVe  impotence,'' 

and  are  incapable  of  comprehending  the  Importance  (espe- 
cially when  many  are  invited)  of  a  truly  hospitable  Entertain- 
ment :  but  Genuine  Connoisseurs  in  the  Science  of  Good 
Cheer  wiU  vote  uS^Thanjp  for  our  endeavours  to  initiate  well- 
disposed  Amateurs. 

^  !CARVING. 

Ceremony  j^oes  not  in  any  thine,  more  commoflly,  and 
completelf  triumph  oveilComforty  Uxan  in  the  administration 
of  "  t}^  Hcfnours  of  the  table.'' 

Tbose  who  serve  oij(  the  Loaves  and  Pishes  seldom  seem 
to  understand  that  jie  is  ftie  best  Carver  who  fills  the  plates 
of  the  greatest  number  of  Guests,  in  the  least  portion  of 
time.  • 

To  eifect  this,ySU  the  plates  and  send  them  round — instead 
of  asking  each  Individual  if  they  choose  Soup^  Fish,  &c.  or 
what  particular  part  diey  prefer,  for  as  they  cannot  all  be 
Choosers,  you  will  thus  escape  making  any  invidious  dis- 
tinctions. 

A  dexterous  Carver,*  (especially  if  he  be  possessed  with 
that  determined  enemy  to  Ceremony  and  Sauce,  a  keen  appe- 
tite,) will  help  half  a  dozen  people  in  half  the  time  one  of 
your  would-be-thought  polite  folks  wastes  in  making  t:;vil 
^ces,  &c.  to  a  single  Guest. 

It  would  save  a  great  deed  ofTime^  ^c.  if  Poultry,  espe?- 
cially  large  Turkeys  -and  Geese,  were  sent  to  table  ready  cut 

up.  (No.  530.)* 

■  ■  ■       ■ .    ,i    ..  ■  ...        II  .     ■  .  ■ 

*  lo  Days  of  Yore  *'  Le  Grand  Eeuffer  Tranchant^^oT  the  Mastbii 
Cak^er,  was.theneit  Officer  of  the  Mouth  iihrank  to  the  '<  Mattre  4' 


40  CARVLVG. 

Fish  that  is  fried  should  be  previously  divided  into  such 
portions  as  are  fit  to  help  at  table — see  (No.  145.) 

A  prudent  Carver  will  cut  fair  ;*  arid  observe  an  equitable 
distribution  of  the  Dainties  he  is  serving  out — and  regulate 
his  helps,  by  the  proportion  which  his  dish  bears  to  the  num- 
ber he  has  to  divide  it  amongst,  taking  into  this  reckoning 
Ihe  qtiantum  of  Appetite  the  several  guests  are  presumed  to 
possess. 


"  Study  their  Genius,  daprices,  GoUi'^ 

"  They,  in  return,  may  haply  stpdy  you  : 

**  Some  wish  a  Pinion,  some  prefer  a  Legf, 

**  Some  for  a  Meny-thon^ht,  or  Sidesbone  be^— 

**  The  wings  of  Fowls,  then  slices  of  the  round, 

«  The  trail  of  Woodcock,  of  Codfish  tl^e  sound. 

**  liCt  strict  impartiality  preside-*- 

"  Nor  freak,  norfa¥our,  nor  affeption  guj^eJ" 

FroiH^e  Banquet. 
. 

The  Guest  who  wishes  to  ensure  a  hearty  welconoe,  and 
frequent  invitation  to  the  board  of  iigspitalitv*  may  calculate 
that  the  **  easier  he  is  pleased  the  (fftener  he  ttrill  be  iovited ;" 
instead  of  unblushingly  demandino^of  the  fair  Hostess  that  the 
prime  "  tit-bit**  of  every  dish  be  jjut^onyour  plate,— receive 
(if  not  with  pleasure — or  even  content)  with  the  liveliest  ex- 
pressions of  thankfulness  whatever  is  presentecl  to  you — and 
forget  not  to  praise  the  Cook,  and*  the  same  shall  be  reckoned 
\into  you  even  as  the  praise  of  the  Mistress. 

The  Invalid  or  the  Epicure,  when  he  dines  out,  to  save 
li-ouble  to  his  friends,  may  carry  with  him  a  portable  Maga- 
zine OF  Taste.     (See  No.  463.) 


JJotetf**  and  the  technical  terms  of  bis  Art  were  as  singular  as  any  of 
those  which  ornament  "  Grose^s  Classiciil  Slang  Dictionary,'*  or  **  the 
Gipsies  Gibberish ;''  the  o)ily  one  of  these  old  phrases  now  in  common 
ijse  is,  **  cut  up  the  ToRKEt,"  —we  are  no  longer  desired  to  "  disfigure 
a  PEiicocK" — "  unbrace  a  Dock'' — "  unlace  a  Conev" — "  tame  k 
Crab".— ** tire  an  Egg"— and  "  spoil  the  Hen,''  <fec,— See  Instrut- 
4ion.sfoT  the  Officers  qf  the  Mouthy  by  Rose,  1682. 

*  Those  in  the  Parlour  should  recollect  the  importance  or  setting  a 
jrood  example  to  their  friends  at  the  second  table.  If  they  cut  Bread-^ 
Meat— Cheese f  <fec.  fairly,  it  will  go  twice  ns  far  as  if  they  hack  and 
mangle  it — as  if  they  had  not  half  so  much  consideration  for  thosii 
in  tiie  Kitchen  as  a  good  SpoFtsmaii  has  for  bis  Dogs.  ' 


.  CARVING.  41 

•*«  If  be  doies  not  like  his  fare,  he  may  console  himself 
with  the  reflection,  that  he  need  not  expose  his  Mouth  to 
the  like  morti6.cation  again  ; — Mercy  to  the  feelings  of  the 
l^tress  of  the  Mansion,  will  forbid  his  then  appearing 
otherwise  than  absolutely  delighted  with  it,  notwitl^tanding 
:  it  njay  be  his  extreme  antipathy.*' 

"  If  he  likes  it  ever  so  little,  he  will  find  occasi<;)n  to 
4 congratulate  himself  on  the  advantage  his  digestive  organs 
:  will  derive  from  his  making  a  moderate  dinner,  and  consola- 
>  tion  from  contemplating  the  double  relish  he  is  creating  for 
the  following  meal,  and  anticipating  the  (to  him)  rare  and 
delicious  zest  of  (that  best  sauce)  good  appetite,  and  an  un- 
restrained indulgence   of  his  gormandizing  fancies  at  the 
Chop-house  he  frequents." 

"  Never  intrust  a  Cook-Teaser  with  the  important  ofBce 
roi  Carver,  or  place  him  within,  reach  of  a  Sauce-boat* 
.These  Chop-house  Cormorants,  who 

**  Critique  your  wine,  and  analyze  your  meat, 
"  Yet  on  plain  pudding  deign  at  home  to  eat," 

are,  generally,  tremendously  officious  in  serving  out  the 
loaves  and  fishes  of  other  people,  for,  under  the  notion 
of  appearing  exquisitely  amiable,  and  kiliingly  agreeable 
to  the  Guesis,  they  are  ever  on  the  watch  to  distribute  them- 
selves the  dainties  which  it  is  the  peculiar  part  of  the  Master 
and  Mistress  to  serve  out,  and  is  to  them  the  most  pleasant 
part  of  the  business  of  the  Banquet,  the  pleasure  of  helping 
their  friends  is  the  gratification,  which  is  their  reward  for 
the  trouble  they  have  had  in  preparing  the  Feast :  such 
^  Gentry  are  tho  terror  of  all  good  Housewives ;  to  obtain 
their  favourite  Cut  they  will  so  unmercifully  mangle  your 
Joints,  that  a  dainty  dog  would  hardly  get  a  meal  from  them 
after,  which,  managed  by  the  considerative  hands  of  an  old 
Housekeeper,  would  furnish  a  decent  Dinner  for  a  large 
Family. — Vide  '*  Almanack  des  Gourmands.^* 

I  once  heard  aijentle  hint  on  this  subject,  given  to  a  Blue 
mould  Fancier,  who  by  looking  too  long  at  a  Stilton  cheese, 
^  at  last  completely  overcome,  by  his  Eye  exciting  his 
Appetite,  till  it  became  quite  ungovernable;  and  uncon- 
sc\0Ms  of  every  thing  but  the  mity  object  of  his  contempla- 


42  CARVING. 

tion,  he  begiein  to  pick  out  in  no  small  pcrtions,  th^  primest 
paints  -his  eye  could  select  from  the  centre  of  the  Gheete. 

The  good-natured  Founder  of  the  Feast,  highly  amused 
at  the  Ecstacies  each  morsel  created  in  its  passage  xjrver  llie 
palate  of  the  enraptured  Gourmand^  thus  encouraged  the 
perseverance  of  his  Guest — *'  Cut  away,  my  dear  sir,  cut 
awtiy,  use  no  Ceremony,  I  pray  : — I  hope  you  will  pick  out 
all  the  best  of  my  Cheese — dc/tiH  you  think  <hat  the  rind 
niid  the  rotpTEN  wiU  do  very  well  for  my  Wife  and 
Family  /  P*  There  is  another  set  of  terribly  'Free  Und  Eifsy 
folks,  who  are  "  fond  of  taking  possession  of  the  Throne  of 
Dortiestic  Comfort," — aftd  then,  with  all  the  impudence 
imaginable,  simper  out  to  the  ousted  Master  of  the  Failiily — 
"  Dear  me  I  am  afraid  I  have  taken  your  place !" 

Half  the  %rouhU  ofwAitiNG  at  table  may  he  saved  hy 
giving  «ach  guest,  two  plates,  two  knives  and  forks,  two 
pieces  of  bread,  a  spoon,  a  wine  glass,  and  a  tumbler,  and 
placing  the  Wines  and  Sauces,  and  the  Magazine  of 
Taste,  463,  &c.  as  a  Dormant^  in  the  centre  of  the  table ; 
one  neighbour  may  then  help  another. 

Dinner  tables  are  seldom  sufficiently  Lighted^  or  attended 
—an  active  Waiter  will  have  enough  to  ao,  to  attend  upon 
half  a  dozen  active  Eaters — ^there  should  be  about  half  as 
many  Candles  as  there  are  Guests — ^and  their  flame  be  about 
1 8  inches  above  the  table— our  foolish  modern  pompous 
Candelabras,  seem  intended  to  illuminate  the  Ceiling,  rather 
thaFf  to  give  light  on  the  Plates,  &c, 

tt^ax  Lights  at  Dinner — are  much  more  elegant — ^and  not 
so  troublesome,  and  so  uncertain  as  Lamps^  nor  so  expensive, 
for  to  purchase  a  handsome  Lamp  will  cost  you  iriote  than 
will  furnish  you  with  Wax  Candles  for  several  years. 


FRiENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS,* 

AND   OfHKR 

SERVANTS. 


On  your  first  comine  into  a  family,  lose  no  time  in  im- 
mediately getting  into  the  good  graces  of  your  fellow-servants, 
that  you  may  learn  from  them  the  customs  of  the  Kitchen, 
and  the  various  rules  and  orders  of  the  House. 

Take  care,  to  he  on  good  terms  with  the  servant  who 
waits  at  table ; — make  use  of  him  as  your  Sentinel  to  inform 
you  how  your  work  has  pleased  in  the  parlour^  by  his  report 
you  may  be  enabled  in  some  measure  to  rectify  any  mistake ; 
but  request  the  favour  of  an  early  interview  with  your 
Master  or  Mistress, — depend  as  little  as  possible  on  second^ 
hand  opinions.'^Tidige  of  your  Employers,  from  your  own 
observations,  and  their  behaviour  to  you, — not  from  any 
idle  reports  from  the  other  Servants,  who,  if  your  Master  or 
Mistress  inadvertently  drop  a  word  in  your  praise  will  im- 
mediately take  alarm,  and  fearing  your  being  more  in  favour 
than  themselves,  will  seldom  stick  at  trifles  to  prevent  it,  by 
pretending  to  take  a  prodigious  liking  to  you,  and  poisoning 
your  mind  in  such  a  manner  as  to  destroy  all  your  confi- 
dence, &c.  in  your  Employers,  and  if  they  do  not  immediately 
succeed  in  worrying  you  away — ^will  take  care  that  you  have 
no  comfort  while  you  stay : — ^Be  most  cautious,  of  those 


*  A  Chspter  of  Advice  to  Cooks,  will)  we  hope,  be  iTound  as  useful 
us  it  is  otri^cimil :  all  we  ba?e  on  ibis  sQbject  in  tihe  works  of  our  prtfle' 
cessors,  is  the  following:  *'  I  shall  strongly  recoWimend  to  all  Cooks 
of  either  sex,  to  keep  their  Stomacbs  free  frofti  strong  liquors  tUl  after 
Dinner,  and  their  Noses  from  snuflF/'—f'trfc  Clermont's  Pnifessed 
Cook,  p.  30,  Svo.  London,  1776. 


44  FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO   COOKS. 

who  profess  most :  not  only,  beware  of  believing  such  honey- 
tongued  folks,  but  beware  as  much,  of  betraying  your  suspi- 
cions of  them — for  that  will  set  fire  to  the  train  at  once,  and 
of  a  doubtful  Friend,  make  a  determined  Enemy. 

If  you  are  a  good  Cook,  r.nd  strictly  do  your  duty — you 
will  soon  become  a  favourite  domestic — but  never  boast  of 
the  approbation  of  your  Employers,  for  in  proportion  as  they 
think  you  rise  in  their  estimation — you  will  excite  all  the 
tricks,  that  Envy,  Hatred,  and  Malice,  and  all  Uncharitable- 
ness,  can  suggest  to  your  fellow-servants; — every  one  of 
whom,  if  less  sober,  honest,  or  industrious,  or  less  favoured 
than  yourself, — will  be  your  Enemy. 

While  we  warn  you  against  making  others  your  Enemy, 
take  care  that  you  do  not  Yourself  become  your  own  and 
greatest  Enemy. — **  Favourites  are  never  in  greater  danger 
of  falling^  than  when  in  the  greatest  favour^  ^ — which  often 
begets  a  careless  inattention  to  the  commands  of  their  em- 
ployers, and  insolent  overbearance  to  their  equals,  a  gradual 
neglect  of  duty,  and  a  corresponding  forfeiture  of  that  i?«- 
gard — which  can  only  be  preserved^  by  the  means  which 
created  it. 

**  Those  arts  by  which  at  first  you  gain  it, 
You  still  must  practice  to  maiotaiA  it." 

If  your  Employers  are  so  pleased  with  your  conduct  as 
to  treat  you  as  a  friend  rather  than  a  servant — do  not  let 
their  kindness  excite  your  self-conceit,  so  as  to  make  yoU 
for  a  moment  forget  you  are  one.  Condescension  even  to 
a  proverb  produces  Contempt  in  inconsiderate  minds,  and 
to  such,  the  very  means  which  Benevolence  takes  to  cherish 
attention  to  duty,  becomes  the  cause  of  the  evil  it  is  intended 
to  prevent. 

To  be  an  agreeable  Companion  in  the  Kitchen,  without 
compromising  your  duty  to  your  Patrons  in  the  Parlour, 
requires  no  smsdl  portion  of  good  sense  and  good  nature — 
in  a  word,  you  must  "  Do  as  you  would  be  done  by.'^ 

Act  for,  and  speak  of  every  body  as  if  they 
were  present. 

We  hope  the  Culinary  Student  who  peruses  these  pages 
■will  be  above  adopting,  the  common,  mean,  and  ever  un- 


1 


I^IBNDLY- ADVICE  TO  COOKS*'  45 

stitecessful  way' of  "holding  wHh  the  Hare,  and  running' 
with  the  Hounds," — of  ciirr3ring  favour  with  fellow-servants 
by  flattering  them,  and  ridiculing  the  Mistress  when  in  the 
Kitchen,  and  then — prancing  into  the  Parlour  and  purring 
about  herj  and  making  opportunities,  to  display  all  the  little  ' 
faults  you  can  find  [or  invent)  that  will  tell  well  against  those 
in  the  Kitchen — assuring  them,  on  your  returb, — that  .they 
were  praised^  for  whatever  yon  heard  them  blamed^ — and  so, 
excite  them  to  run  more  extremely  into  any  little  error 
which  you  think  will  be  most  displeasing  to  their  Em- 
ployers— ^watching  an  opportunity  to  pour  your  poisonous  lies  ' 
into  their  unsuspecting  ears,  when  there  is  no  third  person 
to  bear  witness  of  your  Iniquity — makinp:  your  Victims  be- 
lieve, it  is  all  out  of  your  sincere  regard  for  them — assuring  • 
them  (as  Betty  says  in  the  Man  of  the  World,)  "  That  in- 
deed you  are  no  busybody  that  loves  fending  nor  proving, 
but  hate  all  tittling  and  tattling,  aiid  gossiping  and  back- 
biting,'* &c.  &c. 

Depiend  upon  it,  if  you  hear  your  fellow-servants  speak 
disrespectfully  of  a  Master  or  a  Mistress  with  whom  they 
have  lived  some  time — it  is  a  sure  sign  that  they  have  some 
sinister  scheme  against  yourself — if  they  have  not  been  well 
treated,  why  have  they  stayed  ? 

"  There  is  nothing  more  detestable  than  defamation — I 
have  no  scruple  to  rank  a  Slanderer  with  a  Murderer  or  an 
Assassin. — Those  who  assault  the  reputation  of  their  Bene- 
fectors—  and  1  rob  you  of  that  which  nought  enriches  them' 
—•would  destroy  your  Life,  if  they  could  do  it  with  equal : 
impunity." 

"  If  you  hope  to  gain  the '  respect  and  esteem  of  others, 
and  the  approbation  of  your  own  Heart — ^be  respectful  and 
faithful  to  your  Superiors;  obliging  and  good-natured  to 
your  Fellow-servants — and  charitable  to  all."  You  cannot 
be  too  careful  to  cultivate  a  Meek  and  Gentle  Disposition  ;— 
you  will,  find  the  benefit  of  it  every  day  of  your  life — to  pro-  ^ 
mote  peace  and  harmony  around  you,  will .  not  only  render 
you  a.  general  Favourite  with  your^fellow-servants,-^-but  will 
make  you  happy  in  Yourself.  • 

'*Let  your   CAaroc^er  be .  remarkable  for  Industry,  and 
Moderation.     Your  Manners  and  Deportment,'  for  modesty  : 


4.6  FRIBNDLV  ADVIGB  TO  COOKS, 

and  humility^-Your  Dress  distinguished  for,  simpliijity,  fni- 
gality,  and  neatness.  A  dressy  servant  is  a  disgrace  to  a 
house — and  renders  her  employers  as  ridiculous  as  she  does 
herself.  If  you  outshine  your  companions  in  finery,  you 
will  inevitably,  excite  their  Envy,  and  make  them  your 
Enemies." 

"  Do  every  thing  at  the  proper  time." 
"  Keep  every  thinaj  in  its  proper  place,'* 
"  Use  every  thing  for  its  proper  purpose." 
.  The  importance  of  these  Three  Rules,  must  be  evident,  to 
all  who  will  consider  how  much  easier  it  is  to  return  any  thing 
when  done  with  to  its  proper  place,  than  it  is  to  find  it  when 
mislaid — ^and  it  is  as  easy  to  put  things  in  one  place,  as  in 
another. 

,  Keep  your  Kitchen  and  Furnitture  as  Clean  and  iN'eat  as 
possible — ^which  will  then  be  an  Ornament  to  it — a  Comfort 
to  your  fellow-servants,  and  a  Credit  to  yourself.  Moreover, 
good  Housewifery  is  the  best  recommendation  to  a  good  Hus- 
band»  and  engages  men  to  honourable  attachment  to  yon — 
she  wlio  is  a  tidy  Servant  gives  promise  of  being  a  careful 
Wife. 

Giving  away  VictVMls* 

Giving  away  any  thing  without  consent  or  privity  of  your 
Master  or  Mistress,  is  a  liberty  you  must  not  take  ;---4Ilharity 
and  compassion  for  the  wants  of  our  fellow-creatures  are  very 
amiable  virtues,  but  they  are  not  to  be  indulged  at  ibe  ex- 
pence  of  your  own  Honesty,  and  other  people's  property  • 

When  you  find  that  there  is  any  thing  to  spare,  and  that 
it  is  in  danger  of  being  spoiled  by  being  kept  too  loi^,' — >it 
is  very  commendable  in  you  to  ask  leave  to  dispose  of  it, 
while  it  is  fit  for  christians  to  eat :  If  such  permission  is 
refused)  the  sin  does  not  lie  at  your  door.  But  you  must- 
on  no  account  bestow  the  least  niorsel  in  contradiction'  to  the 
will  of  those  to  whom  it  belongs. 

**  Never  think  any  part  of  your  business  too  trifling  to  be 
well  done." 

"Eagerly  embrace  every  opportunity,  of  learning  any 
thing  which  may  be  useful,  to  yourself-ror  of  doing  any 


FRIENDLY  AOVICB  TO  COOKS.  47 

tliifig  which,  may  benefit  others." — Dallaway's  Servant's 
Monitor^  1815,  p.  165,  &c.  a  work  well  worth  the  perusal 
of  Young  Housekeepers  and  servants. 

Do  not  throw  yourself  out  of  a  good  place  for  a  slight 
affront.  "  Come  when  you  are  called,  and  do  what  you  are 
bid."  Place  yourself  in  your  Mistress's  situation, — and 
consider, — what  you  would  expect  from  her,  if  she  were  in 
yours,  and  serve,  reverence,  and  obey  her  accordingly. 

Although  there  may  be  **  more  places  than  parish 
churches,"— it  is  not  very  easy,  to  find  maiiy  more  Good 
ones.- 

**  A  Rolling  stone  never  gathers  Moss." 

"  Honesty  is  the  best  Pohcy." 

"  A  Still  tongue  makes  a  Wise  head." 

Saucy  Answers  are  highly  aggravating — and  answer  no 
good  purpose. 

Let  your  Master  or  Mistress  scold  ever  so  much,  or  be 
ever  so  unreasonable  ; — as  "  a  soft  answer  turneth  away 
wrath"—"  so  will  Silence — ^be  the  best  a  Servant  can 
make.'' 

One  Rude  Answer^ — extorted  perhaps  by  harsh  words, 
or  unmerited  censure,  has  cost  many  a  servant  the  loss  of  a 
good  place,  or  the  total  forfeiture  of  a  regard,  which  had  been 
growing  for  years. 

"  If  your  Employers  are  hasty,  and  have  scolded  without 
reason — bear  it  patiently — they  will  soon  see  their  error, 
^  not  be  happy  till  they  make  you  amends.  Muttering  on 
leaving  the  room,  or  slamming  the  Door  after  you,  is  as  bad 
^an  impertinent  reply — it  is,  in  fact,  showing  that  you 
would  be  impertinent  if  you  dared." 

A  faithful  Servant  9  wiU  not  only  never  speak  disrespect- 
fully to  her  Employers,  but  will  not  hear  disrespectful  words 
f^^  of  them." — ^Trusler's  Domestic  Ma^naqement^  p,  12, 
17,  &C. 

'^Pply  direct  to  your  Employers^  and  beg  of  them  to  explain 
^  you,  as  fully  as  possible,  how  they  like  their  Victuals 
oressed-rwhether  much-r-or  little  done.* 

^eat  that  is  not  to  be  cut  till  it  is  Cold,  must  be  tburougbly  dono 
specially  iBsumiiier. 


1 


4B  FililENDLY  ADVICfi   TO  COOKS* 


Of  what  co'mpl^ion  they  wish  the  Roasts,  of  a  gold  • 
colour,  or  well  browned,  and  if  they  like  them  frothed  ? 

Do  they  like  Soups  and  Sauces,  thick  or  fhin,  or  white 
or  brawn,  clean  or  full  in  the  mouth  ?  What  accompani- 
ments they  are  partial  to  ? 

What  Flavours  they  fancy?  especially  of  Spice  and 
Herbs. 


"  Namque  coquus  domini  debet  habere  gulam.^' — M^irtial* 

It  is  impossible  that  the  most  Accomplished  Cook  can 
please  their  palates,  till  she  has  learned  their  particular  taste 
— ^this,  it  will  hardly  be  expected,  she  can  hit  exactly  the 
first  time,  however,  the  hints  we  have  here  given,  and  in  the 
7th  and  8th  Chapter  of  tha  Rudiments  of  Cookery,  will  very 
much  facilitate  the  ascertainment  of  this  Main  Chance  of 
getting  into  their  favour. 

Be  extremely  cautious  of  Sectioning  High, — 'leave  it  to  the 
Eaters,  to  add  the  piquant e  condiments,  according  to  their 
own  palate  and  fancy :  for  this  purpose,  "The  Magazink 
OF  Taste,"  or  "  Sauce  box,^^  (No.  463.)  will  be  found 
an  invaluable  acquisition,  its  contents  will,  instantaneously, 
produce  any  flavour  that  may  be  desired. 


''  De  gustibus  non  est  disputandum. 


}> 


Tastes  are  as  different  as  faces,  and  wiihout  a  most  atten- 
tive observation  of  the  directions  given  by  her  Employers, 
the  most  experienced  Cook  will  never  be  esteemed  a  pro- 
found Palatician. 

It  will  not  go  far  to  pacify  the  rajre  of  a  ravenous  GmiV' 
inandf  who  likes  his  Chops  broiled  brown  (and  done 
enongh,  so  that  they  can  appear  at  table  decently,  and  not 
blush  when  they  are  cut,)  to  be  told  that  some  of  the  Cus^ 
tomers  at  Dolly's  Chop-house  choose  to  have  them  only 
half-dotie,  and  that  this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  themt. 

We  all  think  that  is  the  best  way,  which  We  relish  b^t,' 
and  which  agrees  best  with  our  Stomach; — ^in  this.  Reason 
and  Fashion,  all-powerful  as  they  are  on  most .  occasions, . 
yield,  to  the  imperative  caprice  of  the  Palate, 


FEUENDLY  A0VfCE  TO  COOKS.  49 


Chacun  d  son  Goilt. 


« 


'^  The  Irishman  loves  Usquebaugh,  the  Scot  loves  Ale  caU'd  Blue- 
Cap,— 

**  The  Wblchman,  he  loves  Toasted  Cheese^  and  makes  bis  liiouth 
like  a  Mouse-trap." 

Our  Italian  neighbours  regale  themselves  with  Macaroni 
and  Parmesany  and  eat  jsome  things,  which  we  call  Carrion, 
— V\de  Ray's  Travels,  p.  362  and  406. 

Whilst  the  Enqlishman  boasts  of  his  Roast  Beef,  Plum 
PvMinqand  Pprter — 

The  Faenchman  feeds  on  his  favourite  Frog  and  Sowpe- 

The  Tartar  feasts  on  HorsC'-Jlesh'-^ 

The  Chinaman  on  Dogs — 

The.  Greenlander  preys  on  Crarbage  and  Train  Oil, 
and  each  "  blesses  his  Stars  and  thinks  it  Luxury."— 
What  at  one  time  or  place,  is  considered  as  beautiful,  fra- 
grant, and  savoury,  at  another — ^is  regarded  as  deformed  and 
disgustful.* 

'*  Ask  a>  Toad  what  is  Beauty,  the  supremely  beautiful,  the 
TO  KALON !  He  will  tell  you  it  is  my  Wife, — with  two 
Urge  eyes  projecting  out  of  her  little  head,  a  broad  and  flat 
neck,  yellow  belly,  and  dark  brown  back. — ^With  a  Cruinea 
Negro,  it  is  a  greasy  black  skin,  hollow  eyes  and  a  flat  nose. 
—Put  the  question  to  the  bevil,  and  he  will  tell  you,  that 
Beauty  is  a  pair  of  Horns,  four  Claws,  and  a  Tail.*' — 
Voltaire's  PhUos.  Diet.  .8vo.  p.  32. 

Assafatida  was  called  by  the  Ancients,  "  Food  for  the 
Gods."  The  Persians,  Indians,  and  other  Eastern  people, 
now  eat  it  in  Sauces,  and  call  it  by  that  name  : — the  Ger- 
mans call  it  DeviVs  Dung,*^ — Fide  PoMET  on  Drugs. 

GarUck,  and  Clove,  or  Allspice,  combined  in  certain  pro- 
portions, produce  a  flavour  very  similar  to  Assafoetida. 

The  organ  of  Taste  is  more  rarely  found  in  perfection, 
and  is  sooner  spoiled  by  the  operations  of  Time,  excessive 
^  &c.  than  either  of  our  other  senses. 

•  See  Chapter  xv.  "  Chaque  Pays,  ebaque  CQutume,'^-  Comrs  Gas- 
twnomijiee,  8vo.  1800,  p.  16«. 

D 


50  FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS. 

There  are  as  vsgious  degrees  of  sensibility  of  Fklate,  as 
there  are  of  gradations  of  perfection  in  the  Eyes  and  Ears  of 
Painters  and  Musicians : — after  all  the  pains  which  the  Editor 
has  taken  to  explain  the  Harmonv  of  subtle  relishes,  without 
nature  has  given  the  Organ  of  laste  in  a  due  degree,  this 
book  will,  alas  1  no  more  make  an  Osborn* — ^than  it  can  a 
REYNOLDS^r  an  Arne,  or  a  Shield. 

Where  nature  has  been  most  bountiful  of  this  faculty,  its 
sensibility  is  so  easily  blunted,  by  a  variety  of  unavoidable 
circumstances,  that  the  Tongue  is  very  seldom,  in  the  highest 
condition  for  appreciating  delicate  flavours,  or  accurately 
estimating,  the  relative  force,  of  the  various  materials,  the 
Cook  employs  in  the  composition  of  an  harmonious  relish : 
— O>oks  express  this  refinement  of  Combination  by  sayings 
a  well  finished  Ragout  "  tastes  of  every  thing,  and  tastes  of 
nothing  f  (this  is  *^  kitchen  gibberish f**  for  a  ^auce  in  which 
the  component  parts  are  well  proportioned.) 

However  delicately  sensitive  nature  may  have  formed  the 
organs  of  Taste, — it  is  only  during  those  few  happy  mo- 
ments, that  they  are  perfectly  awake,  and  in  perfect  good 
humour — (alas !  how  very  seldom  th^y  are)  that  the  most 
accomplished  and  experienced  Cook,  has  a  chance,  of  work- 
ing with  any  degree  of  certainty,  without  the  auxiliary 
tests  of  the  balance  and  the  measure :  by  the  help  of  these, 
when  you  are  once  right,  it  is  your  own  fault  if  you  are  ever 
otherwise. 

The  sense  of  Taste,  depends  much  on  the  health  of  the 
Individual,  and  is  hardly  ever  for  a  single  hour,  in  the  same 
state,^ — such  is  the  extremely  intimate  sympathy,  between 
the  Stomach  and  the  Tongue,  that  in  proportion  as  the 
former  is  Empty ,f  the  latter  is  acute  and  sensitive :  this  is 

*  Cook  to  Sir  Joseph  Bakks,  Bart,  late  President  of  the  Royal 
Society. 

t  "  ^on  Diner  sera  toujours  une  piece  en  trpis  act^s,  o^  la  trradation 
de  saveurs  suivra  celle  qu'Aristote  present  pour  Pint^r^t  Tb6&tral. 

*'  II  faut  preparer  avec  art  les  jouissances  du  g^ourmand ;  Le  Premier 
sertice  doit  ^tre  deux  et  peuepiee;  cVst  I'acte  d^ezposition :  £m 
S^coim/— plus  int^ressaRt,plus  relev^ :  Le  Troisiemey  appeler  ensuite  k 
son  secours  le  sucre  et  I'ambrosie,  s'armer  des  briilans  aromates,  des 
spiritueuz  vola tiles,  et  temperer  de  temps  en  temps  leur  ^nergie  par  la 
fratcbeur  des  fruits  savoureui." — Court  Ga$tronomique,  p.  67  and  318. 


FRIENDLY  ADVICB  TO  COOE8.  51 

the  cause  that  **  good  Appetite  is  the  best  Sauce''— ^usd  that 
the  dish  we  find  savoury  at  Luncheoji^  is  insipid  at  Dinner^ 
and  at  Supper  quite  tasteless. 

To  taste  any  thing  in  perfection,  the  Tongue  must  be 
moistened,  or  the  substance  applied  to  it  contain  moisture-- 
the  nervous  papillae  which  constitute  this  sense  are  roused 
to  still  more  lively  sensibility  by  Salt — Sugar — ^Aromatics, 
&c. 

If  the  Palate  becomes  dull  by  repeated  tasting,  one  of  the 
best  ways  of  refreshing  it — ^is  to  masticate  an  Apple,  or  to 
wash  your  mouth  well  with  milk. 

The  incessant  Exercise  of  Tasting,  which  a  Cook  is 
obliged  to  submit  to  during  the  Education  of  her  Tongue,  fr^ 
quently  impairs  the  very  faculty  she  is  trying  to  improve. 
"  'Tis  trae — 'tis  pity — and  pity  'tis,"  (says  a  graitd  (rour- 
TMEod,]  *<  *tistnie, — her  too  anxious  perseverance  to  penetrate 
the  mysteries  of  Palatics,  may  diminish  the  tocf,  exhaust  the 
power,  and  destroy  the  Index,  without  which  all  her  labour  is 
in  vain." 

Therefore,  a  sagacious  Cook,  instead  of  idly  and  wantonly 
wasting  the  excitability  of  her  Palate— on  the  sensibility  of 
which,  her  reputation  and  fortune  depends,  when  she  has 
ascertained  the  relative  strength  of  the  flavour  of  the  various 
ingredients  she  employs,  will  call  in  the  Balance  and  the 
Measure,  to  do  the  ordinary  business,  and  endeavour  to  pre- 
serve her  Organ  of  Taste,  with  the  utmost  care,  that  it  may 
be  a  faithful  Oracle,  to  refer  to,  on  grand  occasions,  and  new 
Compositions,* — of  these  an  ingenious  Cook  may  form  as 


t 
*  **  The  diversities  of  Taste  are  so  many  and  so  coDsideraUe,  that  i 
seemeth  strange  to  see  the  matter  treated  of,  both  by  Philosophers  and 
Physicians  with  so  much  scantiness  and  defect:  for  the  subject  is  do 
banen^  batyieldetb  much  and  pleasant  Tariety,  and  doth  also  appear  tot 
be  of  great  importance.'*if-»From  Dr.  Grbw'b  Anatomy  of  Plants, 
fol.  1682,  p.  286.  The  Dr.  enumerates  sixteen  simple  tastes :  'however, 
it  is  difficult  to  define  more  than  six. — 1st.  Bitter  as  Wormwood.    2d, 
Sveet  as  Sugar.    3d.  Sour  as  Vinegar.    4th.  Salt  as  Brine.    5th. 
Cold  as  lee.   dth.  Hot  as  Brandy^     '*  Compound  tastes,  innumerable, 
may  be  formed  by  the  combination  of  these  simple  tastes—  as  words 
are  of  letters."    S^  also  Phil.  Trans.  Vol.  15,  p.  1025. 
*'  Si  rassoclatioQ  de  certaines  couleurs  plaisent  a  I'ceil,  tandis  que 

D  2 


52  FRIENDLY  ADVICB  TO  COOKS. 

endless  a  variety,  as  a  Musician  with  his  seven  notes,  or  a 
(Painter  with  his  colour : — read  chapters  7  and  8  of  the  Rudi- 
ments of  Cookery. 

Receive  as  the  highest  testimonies  of  your  £mployer*s 
•regard,  whatever  observations  they  may  make  on  your  work 
— such  admonitions  are  the  most  unequivocal  proof s  oi  their 
^desire  to  make  you  thoroughly  understand  their  taste,  and 
their  wish  to  retain  you  in  their  service— or  they  would  not 
take  the  trouble  to  teach  you. 

Enter  into  all  their  plans  of  Economy,*  and  endeavour  to 
make  the  most  of  every  thing,  as  well  for  your  own  honour 
as  your  master's  profit,-  and  you  will  find  that  whatever  care 
you  take  for  his  profit  will  be  for  your  own :  take  care  that  the 
•Meat  which  is  to  make  its  appearance  again  in  the  Parlour, 
is  handsomely  cut  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  put  on  a  clean 
dish—take  care  of  the  Gravy,  (see  No.  326.)  which  is  left, 
it  will  save  many  pounds  of  Meat  in  making  sauce  for,  Hashes, 
Poulirtf^  and  many  little  dishes. 

Many  things  may  be  re-dressed,  in  a  different 
form,  from  that  in  which  they  were  first  served,  and  improve 
the  appearance  of  the  table  without  increasing  the  expense 
of  it. 

Cold  Fish, — Soles — Cod — ^Whitings — Smelts,  &c.  may 
be  cot  into  bits,  and  put  into  Escallop  Shells-*-with  cold 


d'auueschoquentia  ?ue,  de  m^me  certaines  saveun  mari6es  ensemble 

flattent  le  gofit,  tandis  qua  d^autres  repugnent  au  palais :  ainsi  le  jaune 

et  le  violet,  le  vert  avec  le  rose  font  ud  effet  agr^able ;  le  bleu  perd  sa 

nuance  quand  11  est  mis  sur  du  vert :  ainsi  le  sucre  s'allie  tr^bien  avec 

les  alimens  doux,  addes  ou  amers ;  mais  il  ne  peut  s'associer  avec  les 

sidMtanoes  salves  :  on  doit  done  ^tudier  ces  convenances.    Je  vals  plus 

loin  ;  il  faut  savoir  que  dans  la  bouehe,  les  organes  du  goftt  distribu^s 

sur  differens  points,  ne  sont  pas  tous  a£kct^  par  les  m^mes  saveurs. 

Le  piment,  par  exemple,  pique  principalement  les  bords  lat^rauz  de  la 

.  langue;  la  canelle  sUmule  sp^cialement  le  boot  de  ce  mdme  niascle; 

,  le  poivre.fait  sentir  son  ardeursurle  milieu,  les  amers- dans  le  fond  de  la 

.  boucbe,  ies  spiritueux  au  palais,  et-  aur  les  joues ;  il  est  m^me  des  sub- 

.  stances  qui  ne  sont  sapides  que  dans  le  gosier,  et  d'autres  dans  Testo- 

mac.''^»Cotir«  Gastronomique,  p.  <J5.  ^ 

*  ''  I  am  persuaded  that  no  Servant  ever  saved  ber  Master  Sixpence, 
but  she  found  it  in  the  6nd  in  her  Pocket.''— Trcslbr's  Domestic 
Manusement,  p.  11. 


FRIBNDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKSv  53 

Oyster,  Lobster,  or  Shrimp  Sauce,  and  bread  dfumbled  arid 
put  into  a  Dutch  Oven,  and  browned  like  Scalloped  Oysters.  ' 
(No.  182.) 

The  best  way  To  warm  cold  Meat  is  to  sprinkle  the 
joint  over  with  a  little  salt,  put  in  a  Dutch  Oven,  at  some ' 
dislance  before  a  gentle  fire,  that  it  may  warm  gradnally, 
watch  it  carefully,  and  keep  turning  it  till  it  is  quite  hot  and 
brown :  it  will  take  from  twenty  minutes  to  three-quarters  of* 
an  hour,  according  to  its  thickness,  serve  it  up  with  Gravy ; 
— this  is  much  better  than  Hashing  it,  and  by  doing  it 
nicely,  a  Cook  will  get  great  credit.  Poultry,  (No.  530.*) ;' 
FniED  Fish,   (See  Nb.  145,),  &c.  may  be  re-dressed  in 
this  way.  # 

Take  care  of  the  Liquor  you  have  boiled  Poultry  or  Meat 
in;  ia  five  minutes  you  may  make  it  into  excellent 
Soup— see  06*.  to  (No.  555.)  and  229,  No.  5,  and  the  7th 
chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

No  good  Housewife  has  any  pretensions  to  Ratiojial 
Economy  who  boils  Animal  Food  without  converting  the 
Broth  into  some  sort  of  Soup. 

However  highly  the  uninitiated  in  the  Mysteiy  of  Soup-* 
making,  may  elevate  the  external  appendage  of  his  OlfdjO- 
tory  O^gan  at  the  mention  of  "  Pot  Liquor,"  if  he  tastes^ 
(No.  5,  or  218,  555,  &e.)  he  will  be  as  delighted  with  it,  as 
a  Frenchman  is  with  •*  Fotage  d  la  Camerani^^^  of  which  it 
is  said  ^'  a  single  spoonful  will  lap  the  Palate  in  Elysium, 
and  while  one  drop  of  it  remains  on  the  tongue,  eacn  other 
sense  is  eclipsed  by  the  voluptuous  thrilling  of  the  Lingual 
nerves!  !*' 

Broth  op  fragments. — ^When  you  dress  a  large  Kn- 
fier,  you  may  make  good  Broth^  or  Portable  Soup^  (No; 
252.)  at.  very  small  cost^  by  taking  care  of  all  the  trimmings 
and  parings  of  the  meat,  game,  and  poultry  you  are  going  to 
use;  wash  them  well,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  as 
much  cold  water  as  will  cover  them ;  set  your  stewpan  on  a 
hot  fire ;  when  it  boils,  take  off  all  the  scum,  and  set  it  on 
again  to  simmer  gently ;  put  in  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  a 
Ifuge  onion,  three  blades  of  pounded  mace  and  a  head  of 
celery;   some  mushroom  parings  wiH  be  a  great  addition^ 


54  VfUBNDLY  ADVICB  TO  COOKS. 

Let  it  continue  to  simmer  gently  four  or  five  hours,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  basin.  This  will  save  a  great 
deal  of  expense  in  buying  Gravy  Meat. 

Have  the  Dust,  &:c.  removed  regularly  once  in  a  fort- 
night, and  have  your  Kitchen  Chimney  swept  once  a 
month ; — ^many  good  Dinners  have  been  spoiled  and  many 
houses  burnt  down  by  the  soot  falling — the  best  security 
against  this,  is  for  the  Cook  to  have  a  long  birch  broom, 
and  every  morning  brush  down  all  the  soot  within  reach  of 
it-— Give  notice  to  your  employers  when  the  contents  of. 
your  Coal  cellar  are  diminished  to  a  chaldron. 

It  will  be  to  little  purpose  to  procure  good  Provisions, 
without  you  have  proper  utensils*  to  prepare  them  in :  the 
most  expert  artist  cannot  perform  his  work  in  a  perfect  man- 
ner wirtiout  proper  instruments ;— you  cannot  have  neat  work 
without  nice  tools,  nor  can  you  dress  Victuals  well  without 
an  apparatus  appropriate  to  the  work  required.  See  1st  page 
of  Chapter  VII.  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

In  those  houses  where  the  Cook  enjoys  the  confidence  of 
her  employer  so  much  as  to  be  intrusted  with  the  care  of  the 
8tore»room,  which  is  not  very  common,  she  will  keep  mi  exact 
account  of  every  thing  as  it  comes  m,  and  insist  upon  the 
toeight  and  price  beins^  fixed  to  every  article  she  purcnases— 
and  occasionally — ^will  (and  it  may  not  be  amiss,  to  jocosely 
drop  a  hint  to  those  who  supply  them  that  she  does)  re-weigh 
them,  for  her  own  satisfaction,  as  well  as  that  of  her  ein- 
ployer,  and  will  not  trust  the  key  of  this  room  to  any  one ; 
she  will  also  keep  an  account  of  every  thing  she  takes  from 
it,  and  manage  with  as  much  consideration  and  frugality  as 
if  it  was  her  own  property  she  was  using,  endeavouring  to 
disprove  the  adage,  that  "  plenty  makes  Waste^^*  and  re- 
membering that  "  wilful  waste  makes  woeful  want." 

The  honesty  of  a  Cook  must  be  above  all  suspicion :  she 
roust  obtain,  and,  f^in  spite  of  the  numberless  Temptations^ 
fee,  that  daily  offer  to  bend  her  from  it  J  preserve  a  character 


*  *'  A  Surgeon  may  as  well  attempt  to  make  an  incision  with  a  patir 
of  Sheers,  or  open  a  Tein  with  an  Oyster-Knife,  as  a  Cook  pretend  to 
dress  a  Dinner  without  proper  Tools.''-^VBRaALL'8  Cookery,  Svo. 
17^9,  p.  vi. 


FRIBNDLT  ABVICB  TO  COOKS.  55 

of  spotless  Int^rity  and  useful  Industry,*  remembering  that  it 
is  the  fair  price  of'  Indepbndbnce,  which  all  wish  for,  but 
none  without  it  can  hope  for ;  only  a  Fool  or  a  Madman  loiU 
be  so  silly  or  so  crazy y  as  to  expect  to  reap^  where  he  has  been 
too  idle  to  sow. 

Very  few  modem  built  Town  houses  have  a  proper 
place  to  preserve  provisions  in — the  best  substitute,  is  a 
Hanging-safe,  which  you  may  contrive  to  suspend  in  an 
airy  situation,  and  when  you  order  Meat,  Poultry,  or  Fish, 
teU  the  Tradesman  when  you  intend  to  dress  ity — ^he  will  then 
have  it  in  his  power  to  serve  you  with  provision  that  will 
do  him  credit,  which  the  finest  Meat,  &c.  in  the  world,  will 
never  do,  unless  it  has  been  kept  a  proper  time  to  be  ripe  and 
tender. 

If  you  have  a  well-ventilated  Larder,  in  a  shady,  dry,  situa^ 
tion,  you  may  make  still  surer,  by  ordering  in  your  Meat  and 
Poultry,  such  a  time  before  you  want  it  as  will  render  it  tender, 
which  the  finest  meat  cannot  be,  unless  hung  a  proper  time : 

See  2d  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery ;)  according  to 
e  season,  and  nature  of  the  meat,  &c.,  but  always  as  **  &f 
bons  hommes  de  bouche  de  France,^^  say,  till  it  if  **  assez 
mortifiSe.^* 


*  Many  Cooks  miss  exoellent  opportunities  of  makiofl^  themselves  in 
dependent, — by  their  idleness,— in  refusing  any  place,  however  profit 
ahle,  ^c.  if  there  is  not  a  Kitchen  Maid  kept  to  wait  upon  them. 

There  are  many  Invalids  who  require  a  good  Cook,  and  as  (after 
reading  this  Book  they  will  understand  how  much)  their  comfort  and 
efiective  existence  depends  on  their  food  being  properly  prepared,  will 
willUigly  pay  handsome  wages — (who  would  not  rather  pay  the  Cook 
than  the  Doctor  ?)— but  have  so  little  work  in  the  Kitchen  that  one  per- 
son may  do  it  all  with  the  utmost  ease,  without  injury  to  their  health, 
which  is  not  the  case  in  a  large  family,  where  the  poor  Cook  is  roasting 
and  stewing  all  day— and  is  often  deprived  of  her  rest  at  night.  No 
artists  have  greater  need  to  "  make  Hay  while  the  sun  shines,"  and 
timely  provide  for  the  infirmities  of  Age.  Who  will  hire  a  superannuated 
Servant  J  If  she  has  saved  nothing  to  support  hcwself,  she  must  crawl 
to  the  workhouse. 

It  is  melancholy  to  find,  that  according  to  the  authority  of  a  certain 
great  French  author— *' Cooks,  half  stewed,  and  half  roasted,  when  un- 
able to  work  any  longer,  generally  retire  to  some  unknown  corner  and 
die  in  forlornness  and  want"— Blackwooo*8  Bdinb.  Mag,  vol.  vii. 
p.  668. 


56  FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO   COOKS. 

I 

1 

Permitting  this  process  to  proceed  to  a  certain  degree,  ret»«- 
ders  M^t  much  more  <  easy  of  solution  in  the  Stomach,  aad 
for  those  whose  digestive  factdties  are  delicate^  it  is  of  the 
utmost  importance^  that  it  be  attended  to  with  the  greatest 
nicety y — ^for  the  most  consummate  skill  in  the  Culinary  pre^ 
paration  of  it,  will  not  compensate  for  the  want  of  attention 
to  this.  (R^  Obs*  to  No.  68.)  Meat  that  is  thorougMy 
Roastedy  or  Boiled^  eats  much  shorter  and  tenderer,  and  is  in 
proportion  more  digestible,  than  that  which  is  uTider  done. 

You  will  be  enabled  to  manage  much  better,  if  your  Em- 
ployers will  make  out  a  Bill  op  Fare  for  the  Week,  on 
the  Saturday  before—for  example  for  a  Family  of  half  a 
dozen — 

Sunday.  % . .  .Roast  Beef  (No.  19.)  and  My  Pudding  (No.  SS4.) 

Monday ...  .Vovrl  (Nos.  16,  58.)  what  vras  left  of  Do.,  fried  and, 
warmed  in  the  Dutch  oven. 

Tuesday Calf  Head  (No.  10.)  Apple  Pie. 

Wednesday.  .Leg  of  Mutton  (No.  I.)  or  (No.  23.) 

Thursday... Do.  broiled  or  hashed  (No. 487.)  or  (No.  484),  Pan 
Cakes 

FHday Fish  (No.  145.)  Padding  (No.  554.) 

Saturday*. .  .Fish,  or  Eggs  and  Bacon  (No.  545.) 

It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  have  certain  things  on  certain 
day^— When  your  Butcher  or  Poulterer  knows  what  you  will 
want,  he  has  a  better  chance  of  doing  his  best  for  you :  aad 
never  think  of  ordering  Beef  for  Roasting  except  for 
Sunday. 

When  the  Weather  or  Season*  is  very  unfavourable  for. 
keeping  Meat,  Sfc, — ^give  him  the  choice  of  sending  that  which 


*  "  The  Season  of  the  year  has  considerable  influence  on  the  quality 
of  Butcher  meat~*depending  upon  the  more  or  less  plentiful  supply  of 
Food,  upon  the  periodical  change  which  talces  place  in  the  body  of  the 
Animal,  and  upon  temperature.  The  flesh  of  most  full  grown  Quadru- 
peds is  in  highest  season  during  the  first  months  of  Winter,  after  having 
enjoyed  the  advantage  of  the  abundance  of  fresh  summer  food.  Its 
flavour  then  begins  to  be  injured  by  the  turnips,  (fee.  given  as  winter  food, 
and  in  Spring  it  gets  lean  from  deficiency  of  food.  Although  Beef  and 
Mutton  are  never  absolutely  out  of  season,  or  not  fit  for  the  table,  they 
are  best  in  November,  December,  and  January.  Pork  is  absolutely  bnd, 
except  during  the  Winter.*'— Swpp/ement  to  the  Edin,  Ency.  Brit. 
p.  3^8. 


mmSVLV  ADVICB  TO  COOKS.  57 

is  in  the  best  order  for  dressing — ue,  either  Ribs  or  Sir-Loia 
of  Beef— or  Leg,  Loin,  or  Neck  of  Mutton,  &c. 

Meat  in  which  you  can  detect  the  slightest  trace  of  putres- 
cency,  has  reached  its  highest  degi'ee  of  tenderness,  and 
should  be  dressed  without  delay:  but  before  this  period, 
which  in  some  kinds  of  meat  is  offensive,  the  due  degree  of 
inteneration  may  be  ascertained,  by  its  yielding  readily  to  the 
pressure  of  the  finger,  and  by  its  opposing  little  resistance  to 
an  attempt  to  bind  the  joint. 

Although  we  strongly  recommend  that  Animal  Food  should 
be  hung  up  in  the  open  air>  till  its  fibres  have  lost  some  de- 
gree of  their  toughness — yet,  let  us  be  clearly  understood, 
also  to  warn  you — ^that  if  kept  till  it  loses  its  natural  sweet- 
ness, it  is  as  detrimental  to  Health,  as  it  is  disagreeable  to  the 
Smell  and  Taste.  , 

In  very  cold  weather — ^bring  your  Meat,  Poultry,  &c 
into  the  kitchen,  early  in  the  morning — if  you  roast,  boil,  or 
stew  it  ever  so  gently  and  ever  so  long — if  it  be  yrozen^— it 
¥rill  continue  tough  and  unchewable. 

Without  very  watchful  attention  to  this,  the  most  skilful 
Cook  in  the  world  will  get  no  credit,  be  she  ever  so  careful  in 
the  management  of  her  Spit  or  her  Stewpan. 

The  time  Meat  should  hang  to  be  tender — depends  on  the 
heat  and  humidity  of  the  air :  if  it  is  not  kept  long  enough, 
it  is  hard  and  tough ; — if  too  long,  it  loses  its  flavour : — it 
should  be  hung  where  it  will  have  a  thorough  air,  and  be  dried 
with  a  cloth  night  and  morning,  to  keep  it  from  damp  ^nd 
mustiness. 

Before  you  dress  it,  wash  it  well, — if  it  is  roasting  Beef, 
pare  off  the  Outside, 

if  you  fear  Meat,*  &c.  will  not  keep  till  the  time  it  is 
wanted, — par-roast  or  par-hoW  it, — it  will  then  keep  a  couple 

*  ••  Larders,  Pantrikb,  and  Sapbs — must  be  sheltered  from  the 
Sim,  and  otherwise  removed  from  the  heat,  be  dry,  and  if  possible  have 
a  current  of  dr}-,  cool  air,  continually  passing  through  them. 

<<  The  freezing  temperature,  i.  e.  St  degrees  of  Fahrenheit,  is  a  per- 
fect preservative  from  putrefaction—  warm  moist  muggy  weutber  is  the 
worst  for  keeping  meat.  The  south  wind  is  especially  unfavourable, 
and  lightning  is  quickly  destructive ;  but  the  greatest  Enemy  you  have 
to  encounter,  is  the  Flesh-fly,  which  becomes  troublesome  about  the 
month  of  May,  and  continues  so  till  towards  Michaelmas.'^ — For  fur- 
Iber  Ohi,  on  this  subject,  See  *'  The  Eofptftienced  Butcher,''  p- 160, 

D  5 


58  FRIENDLY  ADVICB  TO  COOKS. 

of  days  longer,  when  it  may  be  dressed  in  the  usual  way,  only 
it  will  be  done  in  rather  less  time. 

"  In  Germany,  the  method  of  keeping  Flesh  in  Summer,  is 
to  steep  it  in  Rhenish  Wine  with  a  litde  Sea  salt ;  by  which 
means  it  maybe  preserved  a  whole  season.*'  Boerhaavb^s 
Academical  Lectures,  translated  by  J.  Nathen,  8vo.  1763, 
p.  241. 

The  Cook  and  the  Butcher  as  often  lose  their  credit,  by 
Meat  being  dressed  too  fresh,  as  the  Fishmonger  does  by  fish 
that  has  been  kept  too  long. 

Dr.  Franklin  in  his  philosophical  experiments  tells  us,  that 
if  Game  or  Poultry  be  killed  by  Electricity  it  will  become 
tender  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  and  if  it  be  dressed  imme- 
diately, will  be  delicately  tender. 

During  the  sultry  summer  months,  it  is  almost  impossi- 
ble to  procure  meat  that  is  not  either  tough— or  tainted — ^ihe 
former,  is  as  improper  as  the  latter  for  the  unbraced  stomachs 
of  relaxed  Valetudinarians,  for  whom,  at  this  season.  Poultry 
— Stews,  &c.,  and  Vegetable  Soups,  are  the  most  suitable 
food,  when  the  digestive  organs  are  debilitated  by  the  ex- 
treme heat,  and  profuse  perspiration  requires  an  increase  of 
liquid  to  restore  equilibrium  in  the  constitution. 

I  have  taken  much  more  pains  than  any  of  my  predecessors, 
to  teach  the  young  Cook  how  to  perform^  in  the  best  manner,  the 
commxm  business  of  her  profession;—Ax\vL%  well  grounded  in, 
the  RUDIMENTS  of  COOKERY,  she  willbe  able  to  executftj 
the  orders  that  are  given  her,  with  ease  to  herself,  and  sati 
^tion  to  her  employers,  and  send  up  a  delicious  dinner,  wit 
half  the  usual  Expense  and  Trouble. 

I  have  endeavoured  to  lessen  the  labour  of  those  who  wish 
to  be  thoroughly  acquainted  with  their  profession ;  and  an 
attentive  perusal  of  the  following  pages  will  save  them  much 
of  the  irksome  drudgery,  attending  an  apprenticeship  at  the 
Stove  :  an  ordeal  so  severe,  that  few  pass  it  without  irrepar- 
able injury  to  their  Health;*  and  many  lose  their  lives  before 
they  learn  their  business. 

•  ''  Buy  it  with  health,  streogfth,  and  resolution. 
And  pay  for  it,  a  robust  coustftutioo." 

Preface  to  tht  Cook*^  Cotihery,  1T58. 

See  the  preface  to  "  The  Coolcs  Cookery,"  page  9.  This  work,  which 


FRIENDLY  ADYIGB  TO  COOKS*  59 

To  encourage  the  best  performance  of  the  machinery  of 
Mastication,  the  Cook  must  take  care  that  her  Dinner  is  not 
only  well  cooked — but  that  each  dish  be  sent  to  table  with 
its  proper  accompaniments,  in  the  neatest  and  most  ei^ant 
manner. 

Remember,  to  excite  the  good  opinion  of  the  Eye,  is  the 
first  step  towards  awakening  the  Appetite, 

Decoration  is  much  more  rationally  employed,  in  render- 
ing a  wholesome  nutritious  dish  inviting,  than  in  the  elabo- 
rate embellishments  which  are  crowded  about  Trifles  and 
Custards. 

Endeavoiir  to  avoid  over-dressing  Roasts  and  Boils,  &c.  and 
over-seasoning  Soups  and  Sauces  with  Salt,  Pepper,  &c.-*it 
is  a  fault  which  cannot  be  mended. 

If  your  Roasts,  &c.  are  a  little  ufufer-done  ;  with  the  as- 
ttstanbe  of  the  Stewpan,  the  Gridiron,  or  the  Dutch  Oven» 
you  may  soon  rectify  the  mistake  made,  with  the  Spit  or  the 
Pot 

If  over-done,  the  best  juices  of  the  Meat  are  evaporated ; 
it  will  serve  merely  to  distend  the  Stomach,  and  if  the 
sensation  of  Hunger  be  reinoved,  it  is  at  the  price  of  an  In- 
digestion. 

The  chief  business  of  Cookery  is  to  render  food  easy  of 

Kestion,  and  to  facilitate  Nutrition.    This  is  most  com- 
ely accomplished  by  Plain  Cookery  in  perfection — ^i.  e. 
ber  weT  nor  under-done, 
^ith  all  your  care,  you  will  not  get  much  credit  by 
king  to  perfection,  if  more  than  One  Dish  goes  to  table 
time, 
'o  be  eatenln  perfection,  the  interval,  between  Meat  being 
n  out  of  the  Stewpan,  and  its  beii^  put  into  the  Mouth, 
must  be  as  short  as  possible ;  but  Ceremony,  that  most  for- 
midable enemy  to  good  Cheer,  too  often  decrees  it  otherwise, 
and  the  Guests  seldom  get  a  bit  of  an  *^  EntremeV*  till  it  is 
I      half  cold.    (See  No.  485.) 

is  very  scarce,  was,  we  believe,  written  to  deyelop  the  mistakes  in 
what  He  calls  «  tbe  Thousand  Errors,''  i.  e.  «  The  Lady*9  Cooktry,** 
I  e.  If rs.  Glttsse's,  i.  e.  Sir  John  Hill's. 


\ 


60  FRtBXDLY  ADYtCe  TO  COOKS.* 

So  much  time  is  often  lost  in  plactngevery  thing  in  Apple- 
pie  order,  that  long  before  Dinner  is  announced,  all  becomes 
lukewarm ;  and  to  complete  the  mortification  of  the  grand 
Gounnandy  his  meat  is  put  on  a  sheet  of  ice  in  the  shape  of 
a  Plate,  which  instantly  converts  the  Gravy  into  Jelly,  and 
the  Fat  into  a  something  which  puzzles  his  teeth  and  the  roof 
of  his  mouth  as  much  as  if  he  had  Birdlime  to  masticate  : — a 
complete  Meat  Skreen  will  answer  the  purpose  of  a  Hot 
closet^  plate  warmer^  Spc. — See  Index. 

It  will  save  you  infinite  trouble  and  anxiety,  if  you  can  pre- 
vail on  your  employers  to  use  the  "  sauce-box,"  No.  463, 
hereinafter  described  in  the  chapter  of  Sauces.  With  the 
help  of  this  "  Magazine  op  Taste,*'  every  one  in  com- 
pany may  flavour  their  Soup  and  Sauce,  and  adjust  the  vibra- 
tions of  their  Palate,  exactly  to  their  own  fancy :  but  if  the 
Cook  give  a  decidedly  predominant,  and  piquante  ga&t  to  a 
dish,  to  tickle  the  tongue  of  two  or  three  visitors,  whose  taste 
she  knows,  she  m^  Uiereby  make  the  Dinner  disgusting  to 
all  the  other  gUests. 

JVever  undertake  more  work  than  you  are  quite  certain  you 
can  do  well ;  if  you  are  ordered  to  prepare  a  larger  Dinner 
than  you  think  you  can  send  up  with  ease  and  neatness,  or 
to  dress  any  dish  that  you  are  not  acquainted  with,  rathisr 
than  run  any  risk  of  spoiling  any  thing — (by  one  fault,  you 
may  perhaps  lose  all  your  credit) — ^request  your  employers  to 
let  you  have  some  help.  They  may  acquit  you  for  pleading 
guilty  of  inability,  but  if  you  make  an  stttempt,  and  fail,  will 
vote  it  a  capital  offence. 

If  your  Mistress  professes  to  understand  Cookery^  your 
best  way  will  be  to  follow  her  directions:  If  you  wish  to 
please  her,  let  her  have  the  praise  of  all  that  is  right,  and 
cheerfully  bear  the  blame  of  any  thing  that  is  wrong,  only 
advise  that  all  New  Dishes  may  be  first  tried  when  the  Fa- 
mily dine  alone — when  there  is  Company,  never  attempt  to 
dress  any  thing  which  you  have  not  ascertained  that  you  can 
do  perfectly  well.        - 

Do  not  trust  any  part  of  your  work  to  others  rvithout  care» 
fully  overlooking  them ;  whatever  faults  they  commit  you  will 
be  censured  for — if  you  have  forgotten  any  article  which  is 


FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS.  61 

iadtspenfiablefor  the  day's  dinner,  request  your  employers  to 
sa^id  one  of  the  other  servants  for  it  The  Cook  must  never 
quit  her  Post,  till  her  work  is  entirely  finished. 

It  requires  the  utmost  skill  and  contrivance  to  have  all 
things  done  as  they  should  be, and  all  done  together— at  that 
critical  moment  when  the  Dinner  Bell  sounds — *^  to  the 
Banquet,^  ^ 

*'  A  feast  must  be  without  a  fault ; 
And  if  'tis  not  all  right,  'tis  naught.^ 

But 

"  Good  nature  will  some  failings  overlook, 
.    Fors^ive  mischance,  not  errors  of  the  Cook; 
As,  if  no  salt  is  thrown  about  the  dish, 
^Or  nice  crisp 'd  parsley  scattered  on  the  fish ; 
^huli  we  in  Passion  from  our  Dinner  fly, 
.  Andito^s  of  pardon  to  the  Cook  deny, 
For  thiflgps  which  Mrs.  Glassb  herself  might  oversee, 
Aifi  aU  mankind  commit  as  well  as  she?'' 

1      /  Vide  Kikg's  Art  qf  Cookery. 

Such  is  thfe  endless  variety  of  culinary  preparations,  it 
would  be  as  Viin  and,ffuitless  a  search  as  that  for  the  Philo- 
sopher's Stone;  to  txpect  to  find  a  Cook  who  is  quite  perfect 
in  all  Reoperations  of  the  Spit,  the  Stewpan,  and  the  Rolling 
Pin ;  you.  wfll  as  soon  find  a  Watchmaker  who  can  make, 
puttcgether,  and^egulateWery  part  of  a  Watch. 

"  The  Univers©^-:^aiMiot  produce  a  Cook  who  knows  how 
to  do  every  brandi^f^Cookery  well,  be  his  Genius  as  great 
as'-possihjf.*'^— Viddthe  Cook's  Cookery^  8vo.  page  40. 

THfi  JfEST  RUEE  1?OR  MARKETING,  is  tO  pay  READY  MO- 
NEY for  eV^  Jt^ii^i  ^^<^  'P  ^^^  ^^^  ^^  ""^st  respectable 
Tradesmenm  your  neighbourhood. 

If  ygu  leave  it  to  their  integrity  to  supply  you  with  a  good 
article,  dt  the  fair  market  price,  you  will  be  supplied  with 
better  Provisions,*  aud  at  as  reasonable  a  rate  as  those  Bar^atn- 
hunters  who  trot  **  arowM  around  around  abouV  a  market 
till  they  are  trapped  to  buy  some  iilkhewahh  old  Poultry— 
tough  Tup-Mutton — stringy  Cow  Beef — or  stale  Fish* — at  a 
very  little  less  than  the  price  of  prime  and  proper  food : — 


*  See  the  Markrtivg  Tabi<b8  at  the  end  of  the  Work. 


62  FRIENDLY  AOVICS  TO  COOKS. 

with  savings  like  these  they  toddle  home  in  triumph,  cack- 
ling all  the  way,  like  a  Goose  that  has  got  ankle-deep  into 
good-luck. 

All  the  skill  of  the  most  accomplished  Cook  will  avail  no- 
thing, unless  she  is  ^irnished  with  prime  proyisions.  The 
best  way  to  procure  these  is  to  deal  with  shops  of  established . 
character :  you  may  appear  to  pay,  perhaps.  Ten  per  cent, 
more  than  you  would  were  you  to  deal  with  those  who  pre- 
tend to  sell  cheap,  but  you  would  he  much  more  thaa  in  that 
proportion  better  served. 

Every  trade  has  its  tricks  and  deceptions — ^those  who  fol- 
low them  can  deceive  you  if  they  pi  ease,  and  they  are  too  apt 
to  do  so,  if  you  provoke  the  exercise  of  their  over-rtaching 
talent.* 

Challenge  them  to  a  game  at  *•  Catck  who  QinJ*  by  en- 
tirely relying  dn  your  own  judgment:  and  you  will  soon  find 
nothing  but  very  long  experience  can  make  you  equal  to  the 
combat  of  marketing  to  the  utmost  advantage;. 

Before  you  go  to  Market,  look  over  your  Larder,  and  con- 
sider well  what  things  are  wanting — especiallyyon  a  Saturday. 
No  well-regulated  family  can  suffer  a  msgrdeily  Caterer  to  be 
jumping  in  and  out  to  the  Chandler's  Shop  on  a  Sunday 
morning. 

Give  your  directions  to  your  assittantSf  and  begin  your 
Business  early  in  the  Morning,  or  it  will  be  impossible  to 
have  the  Dinner  ready  at  the  time  it  is  ordered. 

To  be  half  an  hour  after  the  time  is  such  a  frequent  fault, 
that  there  is  the  more  merit  in  being  ready  at  the  appointed 

•  <<  He  wbo  will  not  be  cheated  a  litiU,  must  be  conteot  to  be 
abused  a  great  deal ;  the  first  lesson  in  the  art  of  comfortable  Eeo' 
nomi^i  is  to  learn  to  submit  cheerfully  to  be  imposed  upon  in  due  pro- 
portion to  your  situation  and  circumstances ;  if  you  d6  ^ot,  you  will 
continually  be  in  hot  water. 

**  If  you  think  a  tradesman  has  imposed  upon  you,  never  use  a 
second  word,  if  the  first  iUll  not  do,  nor  drop  the  least  hint  of  an 
imposition;  the  only  fflethod  to  induce  him  to  make  an  abatement  is 
the  hope  of  future  favours— pay  the  demand,  and  deal  with  the  Gen- 
tleman no  more ;  but  do  not  let  him  see  that  you  are  displeased, 
or  as  soon  as  you  are  out  of  sight,  your  Reputation  will  suffer  as 
much  as  your  pocket  has.''-^'RiDSLER*a  Way  to  he  Rich,  8vo.  177Q, 
p.  85.  '  . 


FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS.  63 

hour.  This  is  a  difficult  task,  and  in  the  best  regulated 
family  you  Can  only  be  sure  of  your  time  by  proper  arrange** 
ments. 

'  With  all  our  love  of  punctuality,  we  must  not  forget  that 
the  first  consideraMon  must  still  be,  thut  the  Dinner  ''be  well 
done  wheq  'tis  done." 

If  any  Accident  occurs  to  any  part  of  the  Dinner— or  if 
you  are  likely  to  be  prevented  sending  the  Soup,  &c.  to  the 
table  at  the  moment  it  is  expected,  send  up  a  messa^re  to 
your  employers,  stating  the  circumstance,  and  bespeak  their 
patience  for  as  many  minutes  as  you  think  you  shall  want  to 
be  ready.  This  is  better  than  either  keeping  the  Company 
waiting  without  an  apology  ;  or  dishing  your  Dinner  before 
it  is  done  enough,  or  sending  any  thing  to  table  which  is 
disgusting  to  the  Stomachs  of  the  guests  at  the  first  appearr 
ance  of  it. 

Those  who  desire  regularity  in  the  service  of  their  table, 
should  have  a  DIAL  of  about  twelve  inches  diameter,  placed 
over  the  Kitchen  fire-place,  carefully  regulated,  to  keep  time 
exactly  with  the  clock  in  the  Hall  or  dining  Parlour ;  with  a 
frame  on  one  side,  containing  a  taste  table,  of  the  pecu- 
harities  of  the  master's  palate,  and  the  particular  rules  and 
orders  of  his  Kitchen ;  and  on  the  other  side,  of  the  re- 
wards given  to  those  who  attend  to  them,  and  for  long  and 
faithful  service. 

In  small  Families  where  a  Dinner  is  seldom  given — a  great 
deal  of  preparation  is  required,  and  the  preceding  day  must 
be  devoted  to  the  business  of  the  Kitchen. 

On  these  occasions  a  Charmwoman  is  often  employed  to  do 
the  dirty  work.  Ignorant  persons  often  hinder  you  more 
than  they  help  you :  we  advise  a  Cook  to  be  hired  to  assist 
to  dress  the  Dinner — this  would  be  very  little  more  expense, 
and  the  work  got  through  with  much  more  comfort  in  the 
Kitchen  and  credit  to  the  Parlour. 

When  you  have  A  very  large  entertainment  to  pre- 
pare, get  your  Soups  and  Sauces,  Forcemeats,  &c.  ready 
the  day  before,  and  read  the  7th  Chapter  of  our  Rudiments 
of  Cookery: — many  Made  Dishes  may  also  be  prepared 
the  day  before  they  are  to  go  to  table ;  but  do  not  do  them 


64  FRIENDLY  ADYXCB  TO  COOKS. 

quite efiough  the  first  day»  that  they  may  not  be  over-donehj 
warming  up  again. 

Prepare  every  thing  you  can  the  day  before  the  Dinnert 
and  order  every  thing  else  to  be  sent  in  early  in  the  Morning ; 
if  the  tradesmen  Ibiget  it,  it  will  allow  you  time  to  setid 
for  it. 

The  PASTRYy— Jellies,  &c.  you  may  prepare  while  the 
Broths  are  doing :  then  truss  your  Game  and  Poultry,-— and 
shape  your  CoUops,  Cutlets,  &c. — and  trim  them  neotfy— - 
cut  away  all  Flaps  and  Gristles^  Sfc,  Nothing  should  ap^ 
pear  on  table  but  what  has  indisputable  pretensions  to  be 
eaten  I 

Put  your  MADE  Dishes  in  plates,  and  arrange  them  upon 
the  dresser  in  regular  order :  next  see  that  your  Roasts  and 
Boils  are  all  nicdiy  trimmed,  trussed,  &c.  and  quite  ready 
for  the  Spit  or  the  Pot. 

Have  your  Vegetables  neatly  cut,  pared,  picked,  and 
clean  washed  in  the  cullender  : — ^provide  a  tin  dish,  with  par- 
titions, to  hold  your  fine  herbs  :  Onions  and  Shallots,  Pars- 
ley, Thyme,  Tarragon,  Chervil,  and  Burnet,  minced  very 
finey  and  Lemon-peel  grated,  or  cut  thin,  and  chopped  very 
small — ^Pepper  and  Salt  ready  mixed,  and  your  Spice-box 
and  Salt-cellar  always  ready  for  action, — ^that  every  thing 
you  may  want  may  be  at  hand  for  your  Stove-work,  and  not 
be  scampering  about  the  kitchen  in  a  whirlpool  of  confusion 
hunting  after  these  trifles  while  the  Dinner  is  waiting. 

In  one  drawer  under  your  Spice-box,  keep  ready  ground, 
in  well-stopped  Bottles,  the  several  spices  separate ;  and  also 
that  mixture  of  them  which  is  called  "  Ragout  Powder:^* 
(No.  467.),  or  (No.  460.) — in  another,  keep  your  dried  and 
powdered.  Sweet,  Savoury,  and  Soup  Herbs,  &c.  and  a  set 
of  weights  and  scales : — you  may  have  a  third  drawer,  con- 
taining Flavouring  Essences,  &c.  an  invaluable  auxiliary  in 
finishing  soups  and  sauces;  (see  the  account  of  the  **  Ma- 
gazine OF  Taste,"  or  **  Sauce-box,"  No.  463.) 
s  Have  also  ready,  some  thickening,  made  of  the  best 
white  flour  sifted,  mixed  with  soft  water  with  a  wooden  spoon 
til)  it  is  the  consistence  of  thick  batter, — ^a  bottle  of  plain 
Browning  (No.  322,)  some  strained  Lemon-juice,,  and  some 
good  Glaze,  or  Portable  Soup,  (No.  252.) 


FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS.  65 

''  Nothing  can  be  done  in  perfection  which  must  be  done  %». 
a  hurry  :*'* — ^therefore,  if  you  wish  the  dinner  to  be  seat  up; 
to  please  your  Master  and  Mistress,  and  do  credit  to  your- 
self, be  punctual ; — ^take  care  that  as  soon  as  the  Clock  Strihes 
the  Dinner  Bell  Rings : — ^this  shows  the  establishment  is 
orderly,  is  extremely  gratifying  to  the  Master  and  his  Guesjts, 
and  is  most  praiseworthy  in  the  Attendants. 

But,  remember,  you  cannot  obtain  this  desirable  reputa- 
tion, without  good  management  in  every  respect  ;t— if  you 
wish  to  ensure  Ease  and  Independence  in  the  latter  part  of 
youT  life,  you  must  not  be  unwilling  to  pay  the  price  fot 
which  only  they  can  be  obtained, — and  earn  them  by  a  dili^ 
gent  and  faithful  f  performance  of  the  duties  of  your  station, 
in  your  young  days,  which,  if  you  steadily  persevere  in,  you- 
may  depend  upon  ultimately  receiving  the  reward  your  ser- 
vices deserve. 

All  Duties  are  reciprocal ;  and  if  you  hope  to  receive  fe- 
vour, — endeavour  to  deserve  it  by  showing  yourself  fond  of 
obliging,  and  graceful  when  obliged — such  Behaviour  will 
win  regard  and  maintain  it,  enforce  what  is  right,  and  ex- 
cuse what  is  wrong. 

Quiet  steady  Perseverance^  is  the  only  spring  which  you 
can  safely  depend  upon  to  infallibly  promote  your  progress 
on  the  road  to  Independence. 

If  your  employers  do  not  immediately  appear  to  be  sen- 
sible of  your  endeavours  to  contribute  your  utmost  to  their 


*  Says  Tom  Thrifty,  "  exeq^t  catching  of  Fleas:'*  See  T.  T.'s 
Eimy  on  Early  Rising, 

t  N.  B.  '*  If  you  ^ill  take  half  the  pains  to  deserve  the  regard  of 
your  Master  and  Mistress  by  being  a  good  and  faithful  servant,  you 
take  to  be  coosidered  a  good  fellow-servant, — so  many  of  ypu  would 
rioi,  in  the  decline  of  life,  be  left  destitute  of  those  comforts  which  age 
requires,  nor  have  occasion  to  quote  the  saying  that,  ''  Service  is  no 
inheritance,"  unless  your  own  misconduct  makes  it  so. 

**  The  idea  of  being  called  a  Teli*^le,  has  occasioned  many  good 
servants  to  shut  their  Eyes  against  the  frauds  of  fellow-servants. 

**  In  the  eye  of  the  law,  persons  standing  by  and  seeing  a  felony 
committed,  which  they  could  have  prevented,  are  held  equally  guilty 
vith  those  ^committing  it." — Dr.  Trusler'8  Domestic  Management, 
p*  12,  and  Instructions  to  Servants. 


66  FRIENDLY  ADVICE  TO  COOKS. 

comfort  and  interest,  be  not  easily  discouraged ; — Persevere^ 
and  do  all  in  your  power  to  make  yourself  useful. 

Endeavotir  to  promote  the  Comfort  of  every  Individual  in 
the  Family — let  it  be  manifest  that  you  are  desirous  to 
do  rather  niore  than  is  required  of  you,  than  less  than 
your  duty — they  merit  little  who  perform  merely  what  would 
be  exacted — if  you  are  desired  to  help  in  any  business  which 
may  not  strictly  belong  to  your  department — undertake  it 
Cheerfully,  Patiently,  and  Conscientiously. 

The  foregoing  advice  has  been  written  with  an  honest  de- 
sire to  augment  the  comfort  of  those  in  the  Kitchen — who 
will  soon  find  that  the  ever-cheering  reflection  of  having 
done  their  Duly  to  the  utmost  of  their  ability — ^is  in  itself, 
with  a  Christian  spirit,  a  never- failing  source  of  comfort  in 
all  circumstances  and  situations,  and  that 

"  Virtue  is  its  own  Reward." 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


To  reduce  our  Culinary  Operations  to  as  exact  a  certainty 
as  the  nature  of  the  processes  would  admit  of; — we  have, 
-wherever  it  was  neeclluly  given  the  Quantities  of  each  article. 

The  Weights,  are  Avoirdupoise* 

The  Measure, — the  graduated  glass  of  theApothecariies; 
this  appeared  the  most  accurate  and  convenient ; — the  Pint 
being  divided  into  sixteen  ounces,  the  Ounce  into  eight 
drachms.  A  middlincr  sized  Tea-spoon  will  contain  ahout  a 
Drachm ; — four  such  Tea-spoons  are  equal  to  a  middling 
size  Table-^oonj  or  half  an  Ounce ; — ^four  Table-spoons  to 
a  common  sized  fFine-glass. 

The  specific  gravities  of  the  various  substances,  beinsr  so 
extremely  dilferent,  we  cannot  offer  any  auxiliary  standards* 
for  the  Weights,  which  we  earnestly  recommend  the  Cook 
to  employ,  if  she  wishes  to  gain  credit  for  accuracy  and  uni- 
formity in  her  business :  these  she  will  find  it  necessary  to 
have  as  small  as  the  quarter  of  a  drachm  Avoirdupois,  which 
is  equal  to  nearly  seven  grains  Troy. 

Glass  Measures,  (divided  into  Tea,  and  Table-spoons,) 
containing  from  Half  an  Ounce — ^to  Half  a  Pint, — may  be 
had  at  Hancock  and  Shepherd^s  Glass  Shop,  at  Charing- 
Cross,  and  at  Price's,  near  Exeter  'Change,  Strand ;  where 
also  maybe  had, — ^the  double  headed  pepper  and  spice 
BOXES,  with  caps  over  the  gratings.  The  superiority  of 
these,  by  preserving  the  contents  from  the  action  of  the  air, 
must  be  sufficiently  obvious  to  every  one :  the  fine  aromatic 
flavour  of  Pepper  is  soon  lost y  from  the  bottles  it  is  usually 
kept  in  not  being  well  stopped.  Peppers  are  seldom  ground 
or  poiinded  sufficiently  fine.     (See  N.  B.  to  369.) 

N.  B.  The  Trough  Nutmeg  Graters,  made  by  Brooks, 
Ironmonger  in  Piccadilly,  (near  Bond  Street),  are  by  far  the 
best  we  have  seen,  especially  for  those  who  wish  to  grate  fine, 
and  fast. 

Lloyd,  furnishing  Ironmonger,  Strand,  near  Norfolk 
Street,  sells  Springs  which  weigh  from  an  ounce  to  20 
pounds,  for£l  Is. 

Lloyd^s  Balance,  which  weighs  from  7  of  a  drachm  to 
20  pounds,  is  a  very  accurate  and  convenient  machine  for 
weighing. 

*  A  large  Table-spoonful  of  Floiir  weighs  about  half  an  Ounce. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  I. 

BOILING.* 

This  most  simple  of  Culinary  processes  is  not  often  per* 
formed  in  perfection.  It  does  not  require  quite  so  much 
nicety  and  attendance,  as  Roasting, — to  skim  your  pot  well, 
and  keep  it  really  boiling  (the  slower  the  better)  all  the  while, 
to  know  how  long  is  required  for  doing  the  joint,  &c.,  and 
to  take  it  up,  at  the  critical  moment  when  it  is  done  enoi^, 
comprehends  almost  the  whole  art  and  mystery.    This,how- 

*  '*  The  process  by  which  food  is  most  commouly  prepared  for  the 
table, — Boiling, — is  so  familiar  'to  every  one,  and  its  effects  are  so 
uniform,  and  apparently,  so  simple,  that  few,  I  believe,  have  taken  the 
trouble  to  inquire  how,  or  in  tohat  iMxaner,  those  effects  are  produced ; 
and  whether  any,  and  what,  ^improvements  in  that  branch  of  cookery 
are  possible.  So  little  has  this  matter  been  an  object  of  inquury,  that 
few,  very  few  indeed,  I  believe,  among  the  Millions  of  Persons  who 
for  so  many  a^es  have  been  daily  employed  in  this  process,  have  ever 
invon  tfaeniselTes  the  trouble  to  bestow  one  serioos  thought  on  the  sub- 
ject. 

^*  Boiling  cannot  be  carried  on  without  a  very  great  expense  of 
fuel ;  but  any  boiUng'hot  liquid  (by  using  proper  means  for  confinii^ 
the  heat)  may  be  kept  boiling-hot  for  any  length  of  time  almost  with- 
out any  expense  of  fuel  at  all. 

"  The  waste  qffuel  in  cuUnaiy  processes,  which  arises  from  makiag 
liquids  boil  unnecessarily,  or  when  nothing  more  would  be  necesaarv 
than  to  keep  them  boiling-hot,  is  enormous,  I  have  not  a  doubt  but  ihatl 
much  more  than  half  the  fuel  used  in  aU  the  kitchens,  public  and  pri* 
vate,  in  the  whole  world,  is  wasted  precisely  in  this  maimer. 

*^  But  the  evil  does  not  stop  here.  This  unscientific  and  slovenly 
matmer  of  cooking  renders  the  process  much  'more  laborious  and  trou- 
blesome than  otherwise  it  would  be ;  --and,  (what  by  many  will  be 
considered  of  more  importance  than  either  the  waste  of  fuel,  or  the 
increase  of  labour  to  the  cook)— the  food  is  rendered  less  savoury,  and 
very  probably  less  nourishing  and  less  wholesome. 

"  It  is  natural  to  suppose  that  maoy  of  the  finer  and  more  volatile 
parts  of  food  (those  which  are  best  calculated  to  act  on  the  organs  id 
taste)  must  be  carried  off  with  the  steam  when  the  boiling  is  violent."— 
Count  Romford's  lOtb  Essay,  p.  3,  and  6. 


BaiLtNG.  69 

ever,  deifiands  a  patient  alnl  perpetual  vigilance,  of  which  few 
persons  are  capable. 

The  Cook  must  take  especial  care  that  the  water  reali^  boUs 
aUthe  while  she  is  Cooking^  or  she  will  be  deceived  in  the  time; 
and  make  up  a  sufficient  fire  (a  frugal  Cook  will  manage  with 
much  less  fire  for  Boiling  than  she  uses  for  roasting)  at  first, 
to  last  all  the  time,  without  much  mending  or  stirring. 

When  the  Pot  is  coming  to  a  Boil,  there  will  alsvays,  from 
the  cleanest  Meat  and  clearest  Water,  rise  a  Scum  to  the  top 
of  it:  proceeding  partly  from  the  Water,— 4his  must  fa^ 
caTefuUv  taken  off  as  soon  as  it  rises* 

On  tnis  depends  the  good  appearance  of  aU  boiled  things. 

When  you  have  scummed  well,  put  in  some  cold  water, 
which  will  throw  up  the  rest  of  the  scum. 

The  oftener  it  is  scummed,  and  the  cleaner  the  top  of  the 
water  is  kept,  the  sweeter  and  the  cleaner  will  be  the  Meat. 

If  let  alone,  it  soon  boils  down  and  sticks  to  the  Meat;* 
which,  instead  of  looking  delicately  white  and  nice, — will 
have  that  coarse  and  filthy  appearance  we  have  too  often  to 
complain  of,  and  the  butcher  and  Poulterer  be  blamed  for 
the  carelessness  of  the  Cook  in  not  scumming  her  pot. 

Many  put  in  Milk,  to  make  what  they  boil  look  white ; 
bnt  this  does  more  harm  than  good ;— others  wrap  it  up  in  a 
cloth ; — ^but  these  are  needless  precautions,  if  the  scum  be 
attentively  removed.  Meat  will  have  a  much  more  delicate 
colour  and  finer  flavour  than  it  has  when  muffled  up.  This 
may  give  rather  more  trouble— but  Those  who  wish  to  excel 
tn  their  Art  must  onlij  consider  how  the  processes  of  it  can 
he  most  perfectly  performed ;  a  Cook  who  has  a  proper  pride 
and  pleasure  in  her  business,  will  make  this  her  maxim  on 
all  occasions. 

It  is  desirable  that  meat  for  boiling  be  of  an  equal  thick* 
ness,  or  before  thicker  parts  are  done  enough,  the  thinner 
will  be  done  too  much. 

Put  your  Meat  into  cold  f  water, — ^in  the  proportion  of 

*  If,  unfortunately,  this  should  happen,  the  Cook  must  carefully  take 
it  off  when  she  dishes  up,  either  with  a  clean  Sponge  or  a  Paste-brush. 

t  Cooks,  however,  as  well  as  Doctors,  disagree ;  for  some  say,  that 
'*  all  sorts  of  fresh  meat  should  be  put  in  when  the  water  boils.''  I  pre- 
fer the  above  method  for  the  reason  given — gentle  stewing  renders 
Meat,  dec.  tender,  and  still  leaves  It  sapid  and  nutritive. 


I 


70  BOILING. 

about  a  quart  of  Water  to  a  pound  of  Meat :  it  should  be 
eovered  with  water  during  the  whole  of  the  process  of  Boil- 
ing, but  not  drowned  in  it — ^the  less  water,  provided  the  meat 
be  covered  with  it,  the  more  Savoury  will  be  the  Meat,  and 
the  better  will  be  the  Broth. 

ITie  Water  should  be  heated  gradually^  according  to  the 
thickness,  &c.  of  the  article  boiled — ^for  instance,  a  Leg  of 
Mutton  of  10  pounds  weight,  (No.  1.)  should  be  placed  over 
a  moderate  fire,  which  will  gradually  mahe  the  water  hot^ 
without  causing  it  to  boil  for  about  forty  minutes — ^if  the 
water  boibmuch  sooner,  the  meat  will  be  hardened^  and 
shrink  up  as  if  it  was  scorched — ^by  keeping  the  water  a  cer- 
tain time  heating  without  boiling,  the  fibres  of  the  meat  are 
dilated,  and  it  yields  a  quantity  of  scum,  which  must  be  taken 
off  as  soon  as  it  rises. 

"  104.  If  a  vessel  containing  water  be  placed  over  a  steady 
Fire,  the  Water  will  grow  continually  hotter  till  it  reaches 
the  limit  of  boiling,  after  which  the  regular  accessions  of 
beat,  are  wholly  spent  in  converting  it  into  Steam. 

*^  Water  remains  at  the  same  pitch  of  temperature^  however 
fiercely  it  boils.  The  only  difference  is,  that  with  a  strong 
fire  it  sooner  comes  to  boil,  and  more  quickly  boils  away, 
and  is  converted  into  Steam." — Buchanan  on  the  Economy 
of  Fuel,  1810. 

The  Editor  placed  a  Thermometer  in  water  in  that  state 
which  Cooks  call  gentle  simmering^ — the  heat  was  212® — ^i«  e. 
the  same  degree  as  the  strongest  boiling. 

Two  Mutton  Chops  were  covered  with  cold  water,— 
and  one  boiled  a  gallop — and  the  other  simmered  very  gently 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour — the  Chop  which  was  slowly 
simmered  was  decidedly  superior  to  that  which  was  boiled,  it 
was  much  tenderer,  more  juicy,  and  much  higher  flavoured^ — 
the  Liquor  which  boiled  fast,  was  in  like  proportion  more 
savoury,  and,  when  cold,  had  much  more  fat  on  its  surface: 
—this  explains  why  quick  boiling  renders  Meat  hard,  &c.— 
because  its  juices  are  extra(!;ted  in  a  greater  degree. 

Reckon  the  time  from  its  first  comina  to  a  boil. 

The  old  rule  of  15  mmutes  to  a  pound  of  meat,  we  think 
rather  too  little; — the  slower  it  boils  the  tenderer)— -tbe 
plumper, — and  whiter  it  will  be. 


BOILING*  71 

For  those  who  choose  their  Food  thoroughly  cooked — ^which 
all  will  who  have  any  regard  for  their  Stomachs — Twenty 
MINUTES  TO  A  PouND  for  Fresh — and  rather  more  for 
Salted  Meat,  will  not  be  found  too  much  for  gentle  sim^ 
nering  by  the  side  of  the  fire ; — ^allowing  more  or  less  time, 
according  to  the  thickness  of  the  Joint,  and  the  coldness  of  the 
Weather, — ^to  know  the  state  of 'which,  let  a  Thermometer  he 
pboed  in  the  Pantry^  and  when  it  falls  below  40,  tell  your 
Cook  to  give  rather  more  time  in  both  Roasting  and  Boiling, 
always  remembering,  the  slower  it  boils  the  better. 

Without  some  practice  it  is  difficult  to  teach  any  art ;  and 
Cooks  seem  to  suppose,  they  must  be  right,  if  they  put  meat 
into  a  pot,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  a  certain  time — inaking 
no  allowance,  whether  it  simmers  without  a  bubble,  or  boils  a 
gallop. 

Fresh  killed  Meat  will  take  much  longer  time  boiling  than 
that  which  has  been  kept  till  it  is  what  the  butchers  call  rtpe, 
—and  longer  in  cold  than  in  warm  weather ; — if  it  he  frozen 
it  must  be  thawed  before  boiling  as  before  roasting : — if  it  be 
fresh  kUledy  it  will  be  toxLgh  and  hardy  if  you  stew  it  ever  so 
long,  and  ever  so  gently. — In  cold  weather,  the  night  before 
the  day  you  dress  it,  bring  it  into  a  place  of  which  the  tem 
perature  is  not  less  than  45  degrees  of  Fahrenheit*s  thermo;- 
meter. 

The  size  of  the  Boiling  Pots  should  be  adapted  to  what 
they  are  to  contain : — ^the  larger  the  saucepan  the  more  room 
it  takes  upon  the  fire,  and  a  larger  quantity  of  Water  requires 
a  proportionate  increase  of  Fire  to  boil  it. 

A  little  Pot 
Is  soon  hot. 

In  Small  Families,  we  recommend  BLOCK  TIN  saucepans, 
&c.  as  lightest  and  safest ; — if  proper  care  is  taken  of  them, 
and  they  are  well  dried  after  they  are  cleaned,  they  are  by 
far  the  cheapest ;  the  purchase  of  a  new  Tin  saucepan  being 
little  more  than  the  expence  of  tinning  a  Copper  one. 

Let  THE  Covers  of  your  boiling  pots  fit  close,  not 
only  to  prevent  unnecessary  evaporation  of  the  water,  but 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  nutritive  matter,  which  must  then 


72  BOILING. 

remain  eiiher  in  the  Meat  or  in  the  Broth-^and  the  smoke* 
is  prevented  from  insinuating  itself  under  the  edge  of  the  lid, 
and  so  srivinsc  the  meat  a  bad  taste.  See  Observations  on 
Saucepans,  in  the  2nd  page  of  chapter  7. 

If  you  let  meat  or  poultry  remain  in  the  water  after  it  is 
done  enough,  it  will  become  sodden,  and  lose  its  flavour. 
'  Bkef  and  Mutton  a  little  under  done  (especially  very 
large  joints,  which  will  make  the  better  Hash  or  Broil,)  is 
not  a  great  fault — ^by  some  people  it  is  preferred ; — ^bat 
Ijamhy — Porkj — and  Kea/,  are  uneatable  if  not  thoroughly 
boiled — but  do  not  over  do  them. 

A  Trivet,  or  Fish  drainer  put  on  the  bottom  of  the  boil- 
ing Pot,  raising  the  contents  about  an  inch  and  a  half  from 
the  bottom,  will  prevent  that  side  of  the  meat  which  comes 
next  the  bottom  from  being  done  too  much, — and  the  lower 
part  of  the  meat  will  be  as  delicately  done  as  the  other  part ; 
and  this  vnW  enable  you  to  take  out  the  contents  of  the  Pot, 
vrithout  sticking  a  fork,  &c.  into  it.  If  you  have  not  a  trivet, 
use  four  Skewers,  or  a  Soup-plate  laid  the  wrong  side 
upwards. 

Take  care  of  the  LiQUOR  you  have  boiled  Poultry  or  Meat 
in;  in  Five  Minutes  you  may  make  it  into  excellent 
Soup,  see  Obs.  to  (No.  555,)  and  (No.  229.) 

The  GOOD  Housewife  never  boils  a  Joint  vnthout  con- 
verting the  Broth  into  some  sort  of  Soup,  (Read  No.  5,  and 
chapter  7,  and  see  page  Q^). — If  the  Liquor  be  too  salt,  only 
use  half  the  quantity,  and  the  rest  water ;  v^ash  salted  Meat 
well  with  cold  water  before  you  put  it  into  the  boiler. 


An  Estimation  of  the  Loss  op  Weight  which  takes  place 
in  Cooking  Animal  Food. — From  Mr.  Tilloch's  Phi- 
losophical Magazine. 

"  It  is  well  known,  that,  in  whatever  way  the  flesh  of 
animals  is  prepared  for  food,  a  considerable  diminution 
takes  place  m  its  weight.  We  do  not  recollect,  however, 
to   have  seen  anywhere    a  statement  of  the  loss  which 


BOILING.  73 

meat  sustains  in  the  various  culinary  processes,  although  it  is 
pretty  obvious  that  a  series  of  experiments  on  this  subject 
would  not  be  without  their  use  in  aomestic  economy. 

"  We  shall  here  give  the  result  of  a  series  of  experiments 
which  were  actually  made  on  this  subject  in  a  public  esta- 
blishment; premising  that,  as  they  were  not  undertaken  from 
mere  Curiosity,  but,  on  the  contrary,  to  serve  a  purpose  of 
practical  utility,  absolute  accuracy  was  not  attended  to.  CJon- 
sidering,  however,  the  large  quantities  of  provisions  which 
were  actually  examined,  it  is  presumed  that  the  results  may 
oe  safely  depended  upon  for  any  practical  purpose.  It  would 
no  doubt  have  been  desirable  to  have  known  not  only  the 
whole  diminution  of  weight,  but  also  the  parts  which  were 
separated  from  the  meat  in  the  form  of  aqueous  vapour,  jelly, 
ki,  kc, ;  but  the  determination,  of  these  did  not  fall  within 
the  scope  of  the  inquiry.  .      ^ 

28  pieces  of  beef  weighing. . , 280    0 

Lost  in  boiling 73     14 

"  Hence  the  weight  lost  by  beef  in  boiling  was  in  this  case 
about  26|lbs.  in  100  lbs. 

IhS.    029, 

19  pieces  of  beef  weighing. .......  190    0 

Lost  in  roasting , ...  61     2 

**  The  weight  lost  by  beef  in  roasting  appears  to  be  32 
per  cent. 

lis,     0X8^ 

9  pieces  of  beef  weighing.  ••«•...  90    0 

Lost  in  baking  ..••..... • .  27    0 

**  Weight  lost  by  l^ef  in  baking,  30  per  cent. 

lis.     0Z8» 

27  legs  of  mutton  weighing 260    0 

in  boiling,  and  by  having  the?     ^^     , 
shaDkrhone  taken  off \     " 


74-  .  boiunjg. 

lia.     oza, 
**  The  shank-bones  were  estimated  at  4  > 
ounces  each;  therefore  the  loss  by  boiling f     55     8 
was J 

**  The  loss  of  weight  in  legs  of  mutton,  in  boiling,  is  21i 
per  cent. 

lbs,  ozt» 
35  shoulders  of  muttoa  weighing.  •  •  .350  0 
Lost  in  roasting 109  10 

*^  The  loss  of  weight  in  shoulders  of  mutton,  by  roasting* 
is  about  31 1  per  cent. 

lbs,  ozs* 

16  loins  of  mutton  weighing 141     0 

Lost  in  roasting. 49  14 

*^  Hence  loins  of  mutton  lose,  by  roasting,  about  351  per 
cent. 

Ihs,    ozs, 

10  necks  of  mutton  weighing. ...   •  •  •  100    0 
Lost  in  roasting  •  ^ « 32     6 

<<  The  loss  in  necks  of  mutton,  by  roastii^,  is  about  32| 
per  cent^ 

**We  shall  only  draw  two  practical  inferences  from  the 
foregoing  statement. — Ist.  In  respect  of  economy,  it  is  more 
profitable  to  boil  meat  than  to  roast  it.  2dly.  Whether  we 
roast  or  boil  meat,  it  loses,  by  being  cooked,  from  one^fifih 
to  one-third  of  its.  whole  weight." 

The  loss  of  Roasting  arises  from  the  melting  out  of  the 
Fat,  and  evaporating  the  water ;  but  the  nutritious  matters 
remain  condensed  in  the  cooked  solid. 

In  BoiLiNa,  the  loss  arises  partly  from  the  fat  melted  out, 
but  chiefly  from  Gelatine  and  Osmazome  being  extracted 
and  dissolved  by  the.  water  in  which  the  meat  is  boiled ; 
there  is,  theretore,  a  real  loss  of  nourishment,  unless  the 
Broth  be  used ; — ^when  this  mode  of  cooking  beconoes  the 
most  economical.* 

*  The  diminutioii  of  weijrht,  by  Boiling  and  Roasting,  is  not  all  lost 
—the  Fat  Skimmikos  and  the  Drippings,  nicely  clarified,  will  well 
supply  the  place  of  Lard  and  for  Fryio](.  Sea  (No.  83.)  and  the  Re- 
ceipt'for  Cbbap  Soop,  (No.  229.) 


BOILINO.  75 

The  Sauces  usvusUy  sent  to  Table  with  Boiled 

Meat,  Sfc 

These  are  to  be  sent  up  in  Boats,  and  never  poured  over 
the  Meat,  &c. 

Gravy  for  boiled  Meat (No.  327.) 

Parsley  aod  Batter (No.  261.) 

Mock  Ditto (No.  262.) 

Chervil (No.  264.) 

Caper (No.  274.) 

Oyster (No.  278.) 

Liver  and  Parsley (No.  287.) 

Celery (No.  289.) 

Onion  . . • (No.  296,  <fec.) 

Shallot ^ (No.  295.) 

Wow  Wow (No.  328.) 

Curry (No.  348.) 


b2 


^ 


7^  BAKIXG. 


BAKING. 


The  following  Observations  were  written  expressly  for  this 
^ork  by  Mr.  Turner,  English  and  French  Bread  and 
Biscuit  Baker,  the  Corner  of  London  Street  and  Fitzroy 
Square. 

*•*  Baking  is  one  of  the  cheapest,  and  most  convenient 
ways  of  dressing  a  Dinner  in  small  families ;  and  I  may  say 
that  the  Oven  is  often  the  ordx^  Kitchen  a  poor  man  Juu^  if 
he  wishes  to  enjoy  a  joint  of  Meat  at  home  with  his  family. 

"  I  don't  mean  to  deny  the  superior  excellence  of  Roasting 
to  Baking ;  but  some  joints,  when  Baked,  so  nearly  approach 
to  the  same  when  Roasted^  that  I  have  known  them  to  be 
carried  to  the  Table,  and  eaten  as  such  with  great  satisfac- 
tion. 

"  Legs,  and  Loins  of  Pork  ;  Legs  of  Mutton  ; — 
Fillets  of  Veal  ; — and  many  other  joints,  will  Bake  to 
great  advantage  if  the  meat  be  good ;  I  mean  well  fed, 
rather  inclined  to  be  fat ;  if  the  meat  be  poor,  no  Baker  can 
give  satisfaction. 

"  When  baking  a  poor  joint  of  meat,  before  it  has  been 
half  baked,  I  have  seen  it  start  from  the  bone,  and  shrivel 
up  scarcely  to  be  believed. 

**  Besides  those  Joints  above  mentioned,  I  shall  enumerate 
a  few  Baked  dishes,  which  I  can  particularly  recommend. 

"A  Pig,  when  sent  to  the  Baker  prepared  for  Baking, 
should  have  its  Ears  and  Tail  covered  with  buttered  paper 
properly  fastened  on,  and  a  bit  of  Butter  tied  up  in  a  piece 
of  linen  to  baste  the  back  with,  otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to 
blister :  with  a  proper  share  of  attention  from  the  Baker,  I 
consider  this  way  equal  to  a  roasted  one. 

'^  A  Goose  prepared  the  same  as  for  roasting,  taking  care 
to  have  it  on  a  stand,  and  when  half  done,  to  turn  the  other 
side  upwards.     A  Duck  the  same. 

•*  A  Buttock  of  Beef  the  following  way  is  particularly  fine. 
After  it  has  been  in  salt  about  a  week,  to  be  well  washed 
and  put  into  a  brown  earthen  pan,  with  a  pint  of  water ; 
cover  the  pan  tight  over  with  two  or  three  thicknesses  of 
cap  or  foolscap  Paper — never  cover  any  thing  that  is  to  be 


BAKING.  11 

baked  with  Brovm  paper,  the  pitch  and  tar  that  is  in  brown 
paper  will  give  the  meat  a  smoky  bad  taste — give  it  four  or 
iive  hours  in  a  moderate  heated  oven. 

'*  A  Ham  (if  not  too  old)  put  in  soak  for  an  hour,  taken  out 
and  wiped,  a  crust  made  sufficient  to  cover  it  all  over,  and 
baked  in  a  moderate  heated  oven ;  cuts  fuller  of  gravy,  and 
of  a  finer  flavour  thaii  a  boiled  one.  I  have  been  in  the 
babit  of  baking  small  Cod-fish,  —  Haddock,  —  and 
Mackarel,  with  a  dust  of  flour,  and  some  bits  of  butter  put 
OB  tbem.  Eels,  when  large  and  stuffed.  Herrings  and 
SvRATs,  in  a  brown  pan,  with  vinegar  and  a  little  spice, 
and  lied  over  with  paper.  A  Hare,  prepared  the  same  as 
for  Roastii^,  with  a  few  pieces  of  Butter,  and  a  little  drop 
of  Milk  put  into  the  dish,  and  Basted  several  times,  will  be 
found  nearly  equsd  to  roasting ;  or  cut  it  up,  season  it  pro- 
perly, put  it  into  ajar  or  pan,  and  cover  it  over  and  bake  it 
in  a  moderate  oven,  for  about  three  hours. — In  the  same 
manner,  I  have  been  in  the  habit  of  bakins;  Legs  and  Shins 
of  Beef, — Ox  Cheeks,  &c.  prepared  with  a  seasoning  of 
Onions,  Turnips,  &c. :  they  will  take  about  four  hours :  let 
them  stand  till  cold  to  skim  off  the  fat;  then  warm  it  up  all 
together,  o/t  part,  as  you  may  want  it. 

"All  these  1  have  been  in  the  habit  of  baking  for  the  first 
families.  •  ^ 

•*The  time  each  of  the  above  articles  should  take,  depends 
much  upon  the  state  of  the  Oven,  and  I  do  consider  the 
Baker  a  sufHcient  judge ;  if  they  are  sent,  to  him  in  time,  he 
must  be  very  neglectful,  if  they  are  not  ready  at  the  time 
they  are  ordered." 


For  Receipts  for  making 

Bread, 

French  Rolls, 

Muffins, 

Crumpets, 

Sally  Lunn,  &c. 

See  the  Appendix, 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  11. 

ROASTING. 

In  all  studies,  it  is  the  best  practice,  to  begin  with  the 
plainest  and  easiest  parts;  and  so  on,  by  degrees,  to  such  as 
are  more  diflacult :  we,  therefore,  treated  of  plain  Boiling, 
and  we  now  proceed  to  Roasting :  we  shall  then  gradually 
unravel,  to  our  Culinary  students,  the  Art,  (and  mystery^ 
until  developed  in  this  work)  of  making,  with  the  least 
trouble  and  expence,  the  most  highly  finished  Soups, 
Sauces,  and  Made-dishes. 

Let  the  young  Cook  never  foi^et,  that  Cleanliness  is 
the  chief  Cardinal  Virtue  of  the  Kitchen ; — ^the  first  prepara- 
tion for  Roasting  is  to  take  care  that  the  Spit  be  properly 
cleaned  with  sand  and  water;  nothing  else. — When  it  has 
been  well  scoured  with  this,  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth.  If 
Spits  are  wiped  cZean,  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  drawn  from 
them^  and  while  they  are  hot^  a  very  little  cleaning  will  he 
required.  The  less  the  Spit  is  passed  through  the  meat,  the 
better,*  and  before  you  spit  it,  joint  it  properly^  especially 
necks  and  loins — that  the  Carver  may  separate  them  easily 
and  neatly,  and  take  especial  care  it  be  evenly  balanced  on 


*  Small  families  have  not  always  the  convenience  of  roasting  with 
a  Spit, — a  remark  upon  roasting  by  a  striko  is  necesaiy. — ^Let 
the  Cook,  before  she  puts  her  meat  down  to  the  fire,  pass  a  strong 
skewer  through  each  end  of  the  joint :  by  this  means,  when  it  is  about 
half  done,  she  can  with  ease  turn  the  bottom  upwards ;  the  ^rayy  will 
then  flow  to  the  part  which  has  been  uppermost,  and  the  whole  joint 
be  deliciously  g^ravy-fuU. 

A  Bottle-Jack,  as  it  is  termed  by  the  furnishing  iromongers,  is  a 
valuable  instrument  for  roasting, 

A  Ddtch  Oven,  Is  aDother  very  convenient  utensil,  for  roasting 
light  joints,  or  warming  them  up. 


ROASTING*  79 

the  spit,  that  its  motion  toiay  te  ^gular,  and  the  fire  <)per^te 
eqiially  on  each  part  of  it ; — ^therefore,  be  provided  with 
Balancing  Skewers,  and  Cookholds^  and  see  it  is  properly 
Jointed. 

Roasting  should  be  done  by  thfe  radiant  heat,  of  a  clear 
Rowing  'iire,  otherwise  it  is  $n  fact  Baksd — the  Machines  the 
Economical  Grtite-tnakers  call  ROASTERS,  are  in  pMtk 
English,  Ovens. 

Count  Rumford  was  certainly  an  exact  i^nomist  of  Filelj 
trhen  he  contrived  these  things, — and  those  Philosophers  who 
try  all  questions  "  According  to  Cocker  "  may  vote  for  Baked 
Victuals ; — ^but  the  rational  Epicure,  who  has  been  accus- 
tomed to  enjoy  6E£F  well  RoA8'*r^i>,  will  soon  be  convinced, 
that  the  Poet  who  wrote  our  national  Ballad  at  the  end  of 
this  Chapter,  was  not  inspired  by  Sir  Benjamin  Thompson's 
Cookery. 

All  yoiu"  attention  in  roasting,  will  be  thrown  away,  if  yoti 
do  not  take  care  that  your  Meat,  especially  Beefy  (which  ctn 
sieldom  be  bought  ready  Jor  the  spit  except  &n  a  Saturday,) 
has  been  kept  l&ng  enough  to  be  Tender.  See  **  Advice  to 
Cooks,"— and  Obs.  to  (No  68.) 

Make  up  the  FifiB  in  time ;  let  tt  be  proportioned  to  the 
dinner  to  be  dressed,  and  about  three  or  four  inches  longer^ 
at  each  end,  than  the  thing  to  he  roasted— -or  the  ends  of  the 
joaeat  cannot  be  done  nice  and  brown. 

.^  Cook  must  be  as  particular  to  proportion  her  Fire"*  to 


*  "  Les  Tiandes  en  g^o^al  He  doivent  pas  ^tre  saisies  par  uh  feu  rif 
si  elles  ont  on  certain  foiufne,  parce  qne  Text^rieur  serait  rissol^  et 
br<il^  avant  que  Tint^rieur  f(it  cuit:  xl'un  autre  c6t^  il  ne  faMt  pas 
esposer  trop  loD^-temps  un  r6ti  a  une  cbaleur  moder^e,  parce  que  cette 
clialenr^  qui  suiBt  pour  fevaporer  tous  les  prfudpes  liquldes,  et  coaguler 
i'albuminee,  rapprocherait  les  fibres  musculaires  et  les  dessecberait :  il 
faut  obserrer  encore  qae  la  saveur  des  viandes  rdties  ou  grill^es  depend 
ou  du  gdut  propre  a  la  viande,  ou  d'une  decomposition  partielle  de  la 
peau,  des  muscles,  et  de  la  graisse.  II  se  forme  par  Paction  seule  du 
feu  (tes  substances  sapides,  qui  n'existaient  pas  dans  la  Tiande  crue. 

*'  Les  substances  sont  Vacide  pnusique,  Vacide  zoonique,  un  peu 

d'huile  empyreumatique ;    il  s'y  dt^veloppe  aussi  du  sel  marin,    Tous 

ces  corps  sont  stimulans,  l^gerement  ^cres ;    lis  irritent  les  houppes 

nerveuses  de  notre  palais,  appellent  ie  sue  salivaire,  et  r^veillent  notre 

,    app^^tif — CouRS  GASTBONOMiQDES.—Paris,  1819,p.  292. 


88  ROASTING. 

the  hunnea  she  has  to  do^  as  a  Chemist^^he  degree  of  Hea^ 
most  desirable  for  dressing  the  different  sorts  of  food  ought  to 
he  attended  to  with  the  utmost  precision. 

The  Fire  that  is  but  just  sufficient  to  receive  the  noble; 
Sirloin,  (No  19,)  will  parch  up  a  lighter  joint.  . 

From  half  an  Hour,  to  an  Hour,  before  you  begin  to  Hoast, 
prepare  the  Fire^  by  putting  a  few  coals  on,  which  will  be 
sufficiently  lighted  by  the  time  you  wish  to  make  use  of  your 
fire  ;^— between  the  oars,  and  on  the  top,  put  small  or  lai^ 
Coals,  according  to  the  bulk  of  the  Joint,  and  the  time  the 
fire  is  required  to  be  strong ; — after  which,  throw  the  Cinders 
(wetted)  at  the  back. 

Never  put  Meat  down  to  a  burnt  up  fire,  if  you  can  pos- 
sibly avoid  it ; — ^but  should  the  fire  become  fierce,  place  the 
Spit  at  a  considerable  distance,  and  allow  a  little  more  time. 

Preserve  the  fat,*  by  covering  it  with  paper,  for  this 
purpose  called  *'  Kitchen  Paper,"  and  tie  it  on  with  fiue 
twine ; — ^pins  and  skewers  can  by  no  means  be  allowed,  they 
lire  so  many  taps,  to  let  out  the  Gravy :  besides,  the  paper 
oi]ten  starts  from  them  and  catches  fire,  to  the  great  injury  of 
the  meat. 

if  the  thing  to  be'  roasted  be  thin  and  tender,  the  fire 
should  be  litile  and  brisk ; — ^when  you  have  a  large  joint  to 
roast,  make  up  a  sound,  strong  fire,  equally  good,  in  ever^ 
part  of  the  grate,  or  your  meat  cannot  be  eqmlly  roasted,  nor 
have  that  uniform  colour  which  constitutes  the  beauty,  of 
good  roasting. 

---Oive  the  Fire  a  good  stirring  before  you  lay  the  joint 
down  ;^-examine  it  from  time  to  time,  while  the  spit  is 
going  round;  keep  it  clear  at  the  bottom,  and  take  care  there 
are  no  smokv  coals  in  the  front,  which  will  spoil  the  look 
and  taste  of  the  meat,  and  hinder  it  fi'om  roasting  evenly. 

When  the  joint  to  be  roasted,  is  thicker  at  one  end  than 
the  other,  place  the  spit  slanting,  with  the  thickest  part 
nearest  the  fire. 

Do  not  put  Meat  too  near  the  fire  at  first ; — the  larger  the 


*  If  there  is  more  Fat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with  the  lean-^ 
trim  it  off,  it  will  make  an  exoellont  Puddivg.  (No.  SSI,  or  SS4,)  Or 
clarifjit.    (No.  83.) 


ROASTING.  81 

hint,  HU/artKer  it  fm»t  he  kept  Jrom  the  Krc:— if  once  it 
gets  scorched,  the  outside  will  mconae  hard,  and  acquire  a 
disagreeable  empyreumatic taste:  and  the  fire  being  prevented 
from  penetrating  into  it,  the  meat  will  appear  done,  before  it 
is  little  more  than  half  done,  besides  losing  the  pale  brown 
colour,  which  it  is  the  Beauty  of  Roasted  meat  to  nave. 

From  14  to  10  inches  is  the  usual  distance  at  which  meat 
is  put  from  the  grate,  when  first  put  down : — it  is  extremely 
difficult  to  offer  any  thing  like  an  accurate  general  rule  for 
this,  it  depends  ho  much  upon  the  size  of  the  fire,  and  of 
that  of  the  thing  to  be  roasted 

Till  some  Culinary  Philosopher  shall  invent  a  Tltermometer 
to  a^ertain  the  heat  of  the  Fire,  and  a  graduated  Spit^Rack 
to  regulate  the  distance  from  it,  the  process  of  Roasting  is 
attended  by  so  many  ever- varying  circumstances,  that  it  must 
remain  among  those  which  can  only  be  performed  well, — ^by 
frequent  practice  and  attentive  observation. 

**  Mr.  Watt,  for  his  Steam  Engines  where  Wood  fuel  is 
employed,  allows  three  times  the  weight  of  Woody  that  he 
does  of^Tewcaatle  CoaU — ^it  is  calculated  that  about  l41bs.  per 
hour  of  good  Newcastle  Coal  is  required  to  produce  a  one 
horse  power.  A  bushel  of  Newcastle  Coals,  wnich  weighs  J 
of  a  Cwi.  is  reckoned  to  produce  as  much  heat  as  a  Cwt.  of 
Scotdi  or  Stitffordshire  Coals.^* — ^Buchanan  on  Economy  of 
fW,  1610.  p.  82.  161 «  and  252.  Some  are  of  opinion,  that 
it  requires  about  double  the  quantity  of  Scotch  Coal  to  pro* 
docethesanie  heat  as  that  of  Newcastle.  <<  Dr.  Irvine  found  the 
Heot  of  a  Common  Coal  Fire  to  be  about  799®** — Buchanan 
on  Heat,  p.  152. 

If  you  wish  your  Jack  to  go  well,  keep  it  as  clean  as  pos- 
sible, oil  it,  and  then  wipe  it ;  if  the  oil  is  not  wiped  off 
^D,  it  will  gather  dust ;  to  prevent  this,  as  soon  as  you  have 
^one  roasting,  cover  it  up. — Never  leave  the  winders  on 
whilst  the  Jack  is  going  round,  unless  you  do  it,  as  Swift 
says,  "  that  it  may  fly  off,  and  knock  those  troublesome 
servants  on  the  head  who  will  be  crowding  round  your 
Kitchen  fire." 

.  Be  very  careful  to  p-ace  the  Dripping-pan  at  such  a 
distance  from  the  fire,  as  just  to  catch  the  drippings : — if  it  i« 

B  3 


82  ROASTING. 

too  near,  the  ashes  will  fall  into  it,  and  spoil  the  Drippings* 
(which  we  shall  hereafter  show,  will  occasionally  be  found  an 
excellent  substitute  for  Butter  or  Lard ;  to  clarify  Drippings^ 
see  No,  83,  and  Pease  and  Dripping  Soup^  (No.  229.) 
savoury  and  salubrious  for  only  a  Penny  per  Quart.)  If 
it  is  too  far  from  the  fire  to  catch  them,  you  will  not  only 
lose  your  drippings,  but  the  Meat  will  be  blackened,  and 
spoiled  by  the  foetid  smoke,  which  will  arise  when  the  fat 
falls  on  the  live  cinders. 

ji  large  Dripping  Pan  is  convenient  for  several  purposes 
—it  should  not  be  less  than  28  inches  long,  and  20  inches 
wide,  and  have  a  covered  well  on  the  side  from  the  Fire  to 
collect  the  Drippings — this  will  preserve  them  in  the  most 
delicate  state;  in  a  pan  of  ihe  above  size  you  may  set  fiied 
fish,  and  various  dishes  to  keep  hot. 

This  is  one  of  Painter's  and  Hawke's  contrivances,  near 
Norfolk-street,  Strand. 

The  time  Meat  will  take  Roasting,  will  vary  according  to 
the  time  it  has  been  kept,  and  the  temperature  of  the  weather : 
-• — ^the  same  weight*  will  be  twenty  minutes,  or  half  an  hour 
longer  in  Cold  JVeatheryf  than  it  will  be  in  warm,  and  if 
fresh  killed,  than  if  it  has  been  kept  till  it  is  tender, 

A  good  Meat  screen,  is  a  great  saver  of  Coals.  It 
should  be  on  wheels,  have  a  flattop,  and  not  be  less  than 
about  three  feet  and  a  half  wide,  and  with  shelves  in  it,  about 
one  foot  deep— it  will  then  answer  all  the  purposes  of  a  large 
Dutch  oven,  Plate  Warmer,  Hot  Hearth,  &c.  Soije  are  made 
wiih  a  Door  behind,  this  is  convenient,  but  the  great  heat 
they  are  exposed  to,   soon  shrinks  the  materials,  and  the 

*  This  the  Good  Housewife  will  take  up  occasionally,  and  pass 
through  a  sieve  into  a  stone  pan : — by  leaving  it  all  in  the  Dripping-pao, 
until  the  Meat  is  taken  up,  it  not  only  becomes  very  strong,  but,  when 
the  meat  is  rich,  and  yields  much  of  it,  it  is  apt  to  be  spilt  in  Bastiag^ — 
To  CLARIFY  Drippings,  see  No.  83. 

t  Insint  upon  the  Butcher  fixing  a  Ticket  qf  the  Weight  to  each 
Joint, 

\  If  the  Mba?  is  frozen,  the  usual  practice  is  to  put  it  into  Cold 
Water  till  it  is  thawed,  then  dry  and  roast  it  as  usual: — but  we  reoom- 
mend  you  to  bring  it  into  the  kitchen  the  night  before,  or  early  in  the 
morning  of  the  day  you  want  to  roast  it,  and  the  warm  air  will  thaw  it 
much  better. 


BOASTINO.  83 

currents  of  air  through  the  cracks  cannot  be  prevented,  so 
they  are  better  without  the  Door,  We  saw  one  at  Mr, 
Lloyd's,  famishii^  Irxmrnonger^  near  Norfolk  Street , 
Siremdj  which  had  on  the  top  of  it — a  very  convenient  Hot 
Closet — which  is  a  great  acquisition  in  Kitchens,  where  the 
Dinner  waits  after  it  is  dressed. 

Every  body  knows  the  advantage  of  Slow  Boiling — Slow 
Roasting  is  equally  important. ' 

It  is  difficult  to  give  any  specific  Rule  for  Time  ; — ^butif 
your  Fire  is  made  as  before  directed, — your  Meat  Skreen 
sufficiently  large  to  guard  what  you  are  dressing  from  currents 
of  Air,  and  the  meat  is  not  Frosted, — ^you  cannot  do  bett^^ 
than  follow  the  old  general  rule  of  allowing  rather  more  than 
a  Qiurrter  of  an  hour  to  the  Pound ; — a  little  more  or  less> 
according  to  the  temperature  of  the  weather,  in  propor- 
tion as  the  piece  is  thick  or  thin,  the  strength'of  the  Fire,  the 
nearness  of  the  Meat  to  it,  and  the  frequency  with  which  you 
haste  it :  the  more  it  is  basted,  the  less  time  it  will  take,  as 
it  keeps  the  Meat  soft  and  mellow  on  the  outside,  and  the 
Fire  acts  with  more  force  upon  it 

Reckon  the  Time,  not  to  the  hour  when  Dinner  is  ordered, 
but  to  the  moment  the  Roasts  will  be  wanted  : — supposing 
there  are  adozen  people  to  sip  Soup,  and  eat  Fish  first :  you  may 
allow  them  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  for  the  former,  and  about 
as  long  for  the  latter,  more  or  less,  according  to  the  tempta- 
tions the  "  Bon  Gout  "of  these  preceding  courses  has  to 
attract  their  attention. 

When  the  Joint  is  half  c?on6,*— remove  the  Spit  and 
Dripping  Pan  back,  and  stir  up  your  fire  thoroughly,  that 
it  may  burn  clear  and  bright  for  the  Browning :  when  the 
steam  from  the  Meat  draws  towards  the  fire,*  it  is  a  sign  of 
its  being  done  enough;  but  you  will  be  the  best  judge  of 
that,  from  the  time  it  has  been  down,  the  strength  of  the 
Fire  you  have  used,  and  the  distance  your  Spit  has  been 
from  it. 

Half  an  hour  before  your  meat  is  done^  make  some  Gravy, 


•  When  the  Steam  begins  to  arise,  it  is  a  proof  that  the  whole  joint  is 
thoTonghly  saturated  wiih  beat;  any  unnecessary  evaporation,  is  a 
'Wfisie  of  the  best  nourishment  of  the  meat. 


f^  n 


84  ROASTING/ 

v/5ee  Receipt^  No,  326,)  and  just  before  you  ^e  it  up,  put 
jt  nearer  the  fire  to  brown  it — If  you  wish  to  froth  iy 
baste  it,  and  dredge  it  with  flour  carefully ;  you  cannot  do  this 
delicately  nice  tvidiout  a  venj  good  light ; — the  common  fault 
«eem8  to  be  using  too  much  Flour  ;-^he  Meat  should  have 
a  fine  light  varnish  of  Froth,  not  the  appearance  of  being 
covered  with  a  paste  \-^those  who  are  particular  about  the 
Frothy  use  Butter  instead  of  Dripping ;  see  Receipt  to  Roast 
a  Turkey 9  No,  57 ; — 


"  ADd  send  up  what  you  Roast^  with  relish-giving  Protb,'' 

•says  Dr.  King,  and  present  such  tm  agreeable  appearance  ta 
the  Eye,  that  the  Palate  may  be  prepossessed  in  its  favour  at 
first  sight ;  therefore,  have  the  whole  course  dishedy — before 
Roasts  are  taken  from  the  fire. 

A  Good  Cook,  is  as  anxiously  attentive  to  the  appearance 
and  Colour  of  her  Roasts,  as  a  Court  Beauty  is  to  her  Com-, 
plexion  at  a  Birthday  Ball.  If  your  meat  does  not  brown  so 
much  or  so  evenly  as  you  wish,  take  two  ounces  of  Glaze, 
i.  e.  Portable  Soup,  put  four  table  spoonsful  of  water,  and  let 
it  warm  and  dissolve  gradually  by  the  side  of  the  fire. — This, 
will  be  done  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  put  it  on  the  Meat 
equally  all  over  with  a  paste  brush  the  last  thing  before  it  goes 
to  table. 

Though  roasting  is  one  of  the  most  common,  and  is  gene- 
rally considered  one  of  the  most  easy  and  simple  processes  of 
Cookery,  it  requires  more  unremitting  attention  to  perform 
it  perkily  well,  than  it  does  to  make  most  Made-dishes. 

That  Made-dishes  are  the  most  difhcult  preparations,  de- 
serve*  to  be  reckoned  among  the  Culinary  Vulgar  Errors  ;— 
in  Plain  Roasting  and  Boiling,  it  is  not  easy  to  repair  a  mis- 
take once  made ;  and  all  the  discretion  and  attention  of  a 
steady  careful  Cook,  must  be  unremittingly  upon  the  alert.* 


*  A  celebrated  French  writer  has  given  us  the  following  ohservatipns 
6n  Roasting : — 

_  '*  The  Art  of  Roasting  Tioiuuls  to  the  precise  degree,  is  one  of  the 
most  difficult  in  this  world,  and  you  mag  find  hcSf  a  thousand  good 
€ooks  sooner  than  one  perfect  Roaster ;   (See  "  Almanack  des  GoW". 


ROASTING.  85 

A  diligeiit  attention  to  time, — ^the  distance  of  the  Meat 
from, — and  judicious  management  of  the  Fire,  and  frequent 
Bastings,* — are  all  the  general  rules  we  can  prescribe, — we 


TMndtf"  vol.  i.  p.  3T.)  In  tbe  mansiods  of  the  opulent  they  have,  be- 
sides the  Master  Kitchener,— a  Ronster,  (perfectly  independent  of  the 
iopser))  who  is  exclusively  devoted  to  tbe  Spit. 

''  All  erudite  Govrmanda  know  that  these  two  important  functiond 
cannot  be  performed  by  one  artist;  it  is  quite  imiKtssible,  at  the  same 
time,  to  superintend  the  operations  of  the  Spit,  and  the  Stewpan."— 
Further  on,  the  same  author  observes:  "  No  certain  rules  can  lie  given 
forRotsting,  the .  perfection  ol  it  depending  on  many  circomstanoes 
vhich  are  continually  changing;  tbe  age,  and  size,  (especially  the 
thickness)  of  the  pieces,  the  quality  of  the  coals,  the  temjierature  of  the 
atmospliere,  the  currents  of  air  in  the  kitchen,  the  more  or  less  attention 
of  tlie  roaster;  and  lastly,  the  time  of  serving.— Supposing  the  Dinner 
onlered  to  be  on  table  at  a  certain  time,  if  tbe  Fish  and  Soup  are  much 
lil^,  and  detained  longer  tlian  tbe  roaster  has  calculated ;  or  on  the 
coBtrary,  if  they  are  despatched  sooner  than  is  expected,  the  roasts 
wiU  in  one  case  be  burnt  up,  in  the  other  not  done  enough— two  mis- 
fortunes equally  to  be  deplored.  The  first,  however,  is  without  a 
nnwdy ;  five  minutes  on  the  Spit,  more  or  less,  decides  the  goodness 
*]f  this  mode  of  Cookery ; — it  is  almost  impossible  to  seize  the  precise 
iDst&nt  when  it  ought  to  be  eaten ;  which  Epicures  in  roasts  express,  by 
spying:  **  It  is  done  to  a  turn.**  So  that  there  is  no  exaggeration  in 
*'^y|iig»the  perfect  Roaster,  is  even  more  rare,  than  the  professed 
Cook. 

"  In  small  families,  where  the  Cook — is  also  the  Roaster,— it  is 
aimost  impossible  the  roasts  should  be  well  done; — ^the  Spit  claims  ex- 
clusive attention,  and  is  an  imperious  Mistress,  who  demands  the  entire 
devotion  of  her  slave.  But  how  can  this  be  ?  When  the  Cook  is  ob- 
lige, at  the  same  time,  to  attend  her  Fish  and  Soup  kettles,  and  watch 
her  Stewpans  and  all  their  accompaniments ; — it  is  morally  and  phytic 
cally  impossible,  if  she  gives  that  delicate  and  constant  attention  to  the 
Roasts,  which  is  indispensably  requisite^  the  rest  of  tbe  Dinner  must 
often  be  spoilt ;  and  most  Cooks  would  rather  lose  their  character  as  a 
Roaster, than  neglect  the  made-dishes  and  'entremets,^  dsc,  where  they 
titiak  they  can  display  their  Culinary  Science, — than  sacrifice  these  to 
tile  Roasts,  tbe  perfection  of  whicli,  will  only  prove  their  steady  Vigi- 
lance and  Patience.'' 

*  Our  Ancestors  were  very  particular  In  their  Bastings  and 
I^kbooixos,  as  will  be  seen  by  the  following  quotation  firom  May's 
"  Accomplished  Cook;*  London,  1665,  p.  136.—**  Tbe  rarest  ways  of 
dressing  of  all  manner  of  roast  meats,  either  flesh  or  fowl,  by  sea  or  land, 
aod  divers  ways  of  breading  or  dredging  meats  to  prevent  the  gravy 
from  too  much  evaporating." 


86  ROASTING. 

shall  deliver  particular  rules  for  particular  things,  as  ihe 
several  articles  occur,  and  do  our  utmost  endeavours  to  in- 
struct our  reader  as  completely  as  words  can  describe  the 
process,  and  teach 

*'  The  management  of  common  things  so  well, 

''  Tbat  what  was  thought  the  meanest  shall  excel : 

*'  That  Cook's  to  British  plates  most  complete, 

"  Whose  sav'ry  skill  gives  zest  to  common  meat : 

"  For  what  are  soups, — your  ragouts,  —and  your  saaee,    . 

*'  Cumpared  to  the  fare  of  old  England, 

"  And  OLD  English  Roast  Beef!" 


V 


Take  Notice,  that  the  Time  aiven  in  the  following 

Receipts^  is  calculated  for  thosey  who  like  Meat  thoroughly 

Roasted*     (See  JV.  B.  preceding  Ab.  19.  J 

Some  good  Housewives  order  very  large  joints  to  be  rather 
under-done,  as  they  then  make  a  better  Hash  or  Broil. 

To  make  GRAVY  for  roast,  see  (No.  326.) 

N.B.  ROASTS,  must  not  be  put  on, — ^till  the  Soup  and 
Fish  are  taken  off  the  Table. 

Drbdgings. 

I.  Flour  mixed  with  grated  bread. 

8.  Sweet  herbs  dried  and  powdered,  and  mixed  with  grated  bread. 

3.  Lemon  peel  dried  and  pounded,  or  orange  peel  mixed  with  flrtur. 

4.  Sugar  finely  powdered,  and  mixed  with  pounded  cinnamon,  and 
flour  or  grated  bread  . 

5.  Feunel  seeds,  coriaoders,  cinnamon,  and  sugar,  finely  beaten,  and 
mixed  with  grated  bread  or  flour. 

6.  For  young  pi^s,  grated  bread  or  flour  mixed  with  beaten  du(- 
megf,  ginger,  pepper,  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs. 

7.  Sugar,  bread,  and  salt  mixed. 

Bastings. 

1.  Fresh  butter. 

2.  Clarified  suet. 

3.  Minced  sweet  herbs,  butter  and  claret,  especially  for  mtitton  and 
lamb. 

4.  Water  and  salt. 

5.  Cream  and  melted  butter,  a«pecially  for  a  flayed  pig. 

6.  Yolks  of  eggs,  grated  biscuit,  and  juice  of  oranges. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  III. 

FRYING. 

Frying  is  often  a  convenient  mode  of  Cookery — it  maybe 
performed  by  a  fire  which  will  not  do  for  Roasting  or  Boil- 
ing; and  by  the  introduction  of  the  Pan  between  the  Meat 
and  the  Fire,  things  get  more  equally  dressed. 

The  Dutch  Oven  or  Bonnet  is  another  very  conveni- 
ent utensil  for  small  things,  and  a  very  useful  substitute  for 
the  Jack,  the  Gridiron,. or  Fryingpan, 

AFryingpan  should  be  about  four  inches  deep,  with 
d  perfectly  Jlat  and  thick  bottom,  12  inches  long,  and  9 
broad,  with  perpendicular  sides,  and  must  be  half  filled  with 
Fat— Good  Frying,  is,  in  fact.  Boiling  in  Fat.  To  make 
sure  that  the  pan  is  quite  deany  rub  a  little  Fat  over  it,  and 
then  make  it  warm  and  wipe  it  out  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Be  very  particular  in  Frying,  never  to  use  any  Gil, — Butter, 
T-Lard, — or  Drippings, — but  what  is  quite  clean,  fresh,  and 
free  from  salt.  Any  thing  dirty  spoils  the  look ;  any  thing 
bad  tasted  or  stale  spoils  the  fiavour ;  and  salt  prevents  its 
Browning. 

Fine  Olive  Oil,  is  the  most  delicate  for  frying; — ^but  the 
best  oil  is  expensive,  and  bad  oil  spoils  every  thing  that  is 
dressed  with  it. 

For  general  purposes,  and  especially  for  Fish,  clean  fresh 
Lard  is  not  near  so  expensive  as  Oil  or  clarified  Butter,  and 
does  almost  as  well.  Butter  often  burns  before  vou  are 
aware  of  it,  and  what  you  fry  will  get  a  dark  and  dirty  ap- 
pearance. 

Cooks  in  large  kitchens,  where  there  is  a  great  deal  of 

ring,  commonly  use  Mutton  or  Beef  Suet,  clarified,  (see 

'    84)  :  if  froih  the  kidney,  all  the 'better. 


frying 
i(No/ 


88  FRYING. 

Drippingj  if  nicely  clean  and  fresh,  is  almost  as  good  as 
any  thing, — ^if  not  clean,  it  may  he  easily  clarified ;  see 
(No.  83).  Whatever  Fat  you  use — rafter  you  have  done 
frying,  let  it  remain  in  the  Pan  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then 
pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  basin,  ii  will  do  three  or 
jour  times  at  weU  as  it  did  at  first ^  i.  e,  if  it  has  not  burned 
— ^but  Mem. — the  Fat  you  have  fried  Fish  in  must  not  be 
used  for  any  other  purpose. 

To  know  when  the  Fat  is  of  a  proper  heat,  accordiag  to 
what  you  are  to  fry,  is  the  great  secret  in  frying. 

To  fry  Fish, — Parsley, — Potatoes,  or  any  thing  that 
is  watery,  your  Fire  must  be  very  dear^  and  the  Fat  quite  hot^ 
which  you  may  be  pretty  sure  of,  when  it  has  done  hissing, 
and  is  still. — We  cannot  insist  too  strongly  on  this  point: 
if  the  Fat  is  not  verjf  Ao^  you  cannot  fry  Fish  either  to  a  good 
colour^  or  firm  and  crisp. 

To  be  quite  certain,  throw  a  httle  bit  of  Bread  into  the 
pan ;  if  it  fries  crisp,  the  Fat  is  ready :  if  it  bums  the  bread, 
it  is  too  hot. 

The  fire  wider  the  pan  must  be  dear  and  sharp^  otherwise 
the  fat  is  so  long  before  it  becomes  ready,  and  demands  such 
attendance  to  prevent  the  accident  of  its  catching  fire,*  that 
the  patience  of  cooks  is  exhausted,  and  they  frequently,  from 
ignorance,  or  impatience,  throw  in  what  they  are  going  to 
fry,  before  the  fat  is  half  hot  enough. — Whatever  is  so  fried, 
will  be  pale  and  sodden,  and  offend  the  Palate  and  Stomach 
not  less  than  the  Eye. 

Have  a  good  light  to  fry  by,  that  you  may  see  when  you 
have  got  the  right  colour: — a  Lamp  fixed  on  a  stem  with  a 
loaded  foot,  which  has  an  arm  that  lengthens  out,  and  slides 
up  and  down  like  a  reading  candlestick,  is  a  most  useful  ap^ 
pendage  to  Kitchen  Fire-places^  which  are  very  seldom  light 
enough  for  the  nicer  operations  of  Cookery. 

After  all,  if  you  do  not  thoroughly  drain  the  fcU  from  what 


*  If  this  unfortanately  happens,  be  not  alarmed, — but  immediately 
wet  a  basket  of  Ashes  and  throw  them  down  the  Chimney,  and  wet  a. 
Blanket,  and  hold  it  close  all  round  the  Fire-place,— as  soon  as  the 
current  of  air  is  stopped,  the  Fire  will  be  extinguished  ;  with  a  char- 
coal sTovK  there  is  no  danger,  as  the  diameter  of  the  Pan  exceeds  that 
of  the  firs. 


FRYING.  89 

you.  have  fried,  especially  from  those  things  that  are  full 
dressed  in  Bread  Crumbs,*  or  Biscuit  Powder ^  Sfc,  your 
Cooking  will  do  you  no  credit. 

The  Dryitess  of  Fish  depends  much  upon  its  having  been 
fried  in  fat  of  a  due  degree  of  heat,  it  is  then  crisp  and  dry  in 
a  few  minutes  after  it  is  taken  out  of  the  Pan — when  it  is  not, 
lay  it  on  a  soft  cloth  before  the  fire,  turning  it  occasionally, 
till  it  is:  this  will  sometimes  take  15  minutes: — therefore 
always  fry  Fish  as  long  as  this  before  you  want  them,  for 
fear  you  may  find  this  necessary. 

To  FRY  Fish  see  Receipt  to  fry  SoleSy  (No.  145.)  which 
is  the  only  circumstantial  account  of  the  process  that  has  yet 
been  printed.  — If  the  Cook  will  study  it  with  a  little  attention, 
she  must  soon  become  an  accomplished  Frier. 

Frying,  thoiigh  one  of  the  most  common  of  culinary  ope- 
rations, is  one  that  is  least  commonly  performed  perfectly 
well. 


*  When  you  want  a  great  many  Bread  Crumbs,  divide  your  Loaf 
(which  should  be  two  days  old,)  into  three  equal  parts— take  the  middle 
or  crumb  piece,  the  top  and  bottom  will  do  for  table— m  the  usual 
way  of  cuttings  the  erust  is  wasteti. 

Oatmeal  is  a  very  satisf actor}*,  and  an  extremely  economical  Sub- 
stitute for  B read  Crum  6*,    See  (No .145.) 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY, 


CHAPTER  IV. 

BROILING. 


"  And  as  now  there  is  nought  on  the  fire  that  is  spoilini^y. 

We'll  give  you  just  two  or  three  hints  upon  broiling, 

How  oft  you  must  turn  a  Beefsteak,  and  how  seldom 

A  good  Mutton  chop,  for  to  have  'em  both  wf*!!  done, 

And  for  skill  in  such  cookery  your  credit  'twill  fetch  up. 

If  your  broils  are  well  seasonM  with  good  Mushroom  Ketchup.*' 

Cleanliness  is  extremely  essential  in  this  mode  of 
cookery. 

Keep  your  Gridiron  quite  clean  between  the  bars,  and 
bright  on  the  top  : — ^when  it  is  hot,  wipe  it  well  with  a  linen 
cloth  : — just  before  you  use  it,  rub  the  bars  with  clean  mut- 
ton suet,  to  prevent  the  Meat  from  being  marked  by  the 
gridiron. 

Take  care  to  prepare  your  Fire  in  time,  so  that  it  may 
burn  quite  clear :  a  brisk  and  clear  fire  is  indispensable  ;  or 
you  cannot  give  your  meat  that  browning  which  constitutes 
the  perfection  of  this  mode  of  cookery,  and  gives  a  relish  to 
food  it  cannot  receive  any  other  way. 

The  Chops  or  slices  should  be  from  half  to  three  quarters 
of  an  inch  in  thickness — if  thicker,  they  will  be  done  too 
much  on  the  outside  before  the  inside  is  done  enough. 

Be  diligently  attentive  to  watch  the  moment  that  any  thing 
is  done  ; — never  hasten  any  thing  that  is  broiling,  lest  you 
make  smoke  and  spoil  it. 

Let  the  bars  of  the  Gridiron  be  all  hot  through,  but  yet 
not  burning  hot  upon  the  surface :  this  is  the  perfect  and 
fine  condition  of  the  Gridiron. 

As  the  Bars  keep  away  as  much  heat  as  their  breadth 
covers,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  they  should  be  thoroughly 
hot  before  the  thing  to  be  cooked  be  laid  on  them. 


BROILING.  91 

The  Bars  of  Gridirons  should  be  made  concave,  and  ter- 
minate in  a  trough  to  catch  the  Gravy  and  keep  the  Fat  from 
dropping  into  the.  fire,  and  making  a  smoke,  which  will  spoil 
the  Broil . 

Upright  Gridirons  are  the  best,  as  they  can  be  used  at 
any  fire,  without  fear  of  smoke ;  aod  the  gravy  is  preserved 
in  the  trough  under  them. 

N.B.  Broils  must  be  brought  to  table  as  Ho^  as  possible: 
set  a  Dish  to  heat,  when  you  put  your  Chops  on  the  Grid- 
iron, from  whence  to  the  Mouth  their  progress  must  be.  as 
quick  as  possible. 

When  the  Fire  is  not  clear^  the  business  of  the  Gridiron 
may  be  done  by  the  Dutch  Oven  or  Bonnets 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  V. 

VEGETABLES. 

The  Marketing  Tables  at  the  end  of  this  work  show 
the  Seasons  of  VegetahleSy  and  point  out  the  time  when  they 
are  Best  and  Cheapest. 

There  is  nothing  in  which  the  difference  between  an  Elegant 
and  an  Ordinary  table  is  moreseen^  thaninthe  dressing  o/Ve^ 
getabUs,  more  especially  of  Greens  : — ^they  may  be  equally  as 
fine  at  first,  at  one  place  as  at  another ;  but  their  look  and 
taste  are  afterwards  very  different,  entirely  from  the  careless 
way  in  which  they  have  been  cooked. 

They  are  in  greatest  Perfection^  when  in  greatest  Plenty^ 
t.  e.  when  in  full  season. 

By  Season, — I  do  not  mean  those  early  days,  that  luxury 
in  the  buyers,  and  avarice  in  the  sellers  about  London,  force 
the  various  vegetables :  but  that  time  of  the  year  in  which  by 
nature  and  common  culture,  and  the  mere  operation  of  the 
Sun  and  Climate,  they  are  in  most  plenty  and  perfection. 

Potatoes  and  Peas  are  seldom  worth  eating  before  Mid- 
summer:— ^Unripe  Vegetables,  are  as  insipid  and  un^ 
wholesome  as  Unripe  Fruits. 

As  to  the  quality  of  Vegetables,  the  middle  size  are  pre- 
ferred to  the  largest,  or  the  smallest ;  they  are  more  tender, 
juicy,  and  full  of  flavour,  just  before  they  are  quite  full  grown : 
— ^Freshness  is  their  chief  value  and  excellence,  and  I  should 
as  soon  think  of  roasting  an  Animal  alive,  as  of  boiling  a 
Vegetable  after  it  is  dead. 

The  Eye  easily  discovers  if  they  have  been  kept  too  long : 
— they  soon  lose  their  Beauty  in  sJl  respects. 

Roots^  Greens,  Salads,  &c.,  and  the  various  productions 


VEGETABLES.  93 

of  the  Garden,  when  first  ^thered,  are  plump  and  firm,  and 
have  a  fragrant  freshness  no  art  can  |ive  them  again,  when 
tliey  have  lost  it  by  long  keeping;  though  it  will  refresh' 
them  a  little  to  put  them  into  cold  spring  water  for  some  time 
before  they  are  dressed. 

To  boil  them  in  soft  water  will  preserve  the  colour  best  of 
such  as  are  Green ;  if  you  have  only  hard  water,  put  to  it  a 
tej^poonful  of  Carbonate  of  Potash, 

Take  care  to  washartd  cleanse  them  thoroughly  from  dust, 
dirt,  and  insects  :  this  requires  great  attention :  pick  off  all 
the  outside  leaves,  tiim  them  nicely,  and  if  not  quite  fresh 
gathered  and  have  become  flaccid,  it  is  absolutely  necessary 
to  restore  their  crispness  before  cooking  them,  or  they  will 
be  tough  and  unpleasant :  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  clean  water, 
with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it,  for  an  hour  before  you  dress 
them. 

**  Most  vegetables  being  more  or  less  succulent,  their  fulF 
proportioa  of  fluids  is  necessary  for  their  retaining  that  state 
of  crispness  and  plumpness  which  they  have  when  growing*; 
On  being  cut  or  gathered,  the  exhalation  from  their  surface 
continues,  while,  from  the  open  vessels  of  the  cut  surface^ 
there  is  oflen  great  exudation  or  evaporation,  and  thus  their 
natural  moisture  is  diminished,  the  tender  leaves  become 
flaccid,  and  the  thicker  masses  or  roots  lose  their  plumpnes*.' 
—This  is  not  only. less  pleasant  to  the  Eye,  but  is  a  real  injury 
to  the  nutritious  powers  of  the  vegetable  :  for  in  this  flaccid- 
and  shrivelled  state  its  fibres  are  less  easily  divided  in  chew- 
ing,  and  the  water  which  exists  in  vegetable  substances,  in 
the  form  of  their  respective  natural  juices,  is  directly  nutri- 
tious. The  first  care  in  the  preservation  of  succulent  vege- 
tebles,  therefore,  is  to  prevent  them  from  losing  their  natural 
moisture.*' — Sup.  to  Edm,  Encyclop,  vol.  iv.  p.  335. 

They  should  always  be  boiled  in  a  saucepan  by  themselves, 
and  have  plenty  of  water  :  if  Meat  is  boiled  with  them  in 
the  same  pot,  ihey  will  spoil  the  look  and  taste  of  each 
other. 

If  you  wish  to  have  Vegetables  delicately  clean,^  put  on 
jour  Pot,  make  it  boil,  put  a  little  salt  in  it,  and  skim  it  per- 
fectly clean  before  you  put  in  the  Greens,  &c,  which  should 
not  be  put  in  till  the  water  boils  briskly :  tha  quicker  they. 


94  VEGETABLBS. 

boiU  the  greener  they  will  be  :-^wheii  the  Vegetables  sink, 
they  are  generally  done  enoi^h,  if  the  water  has  been  kept 
constantly  boiling.  Take  them  up  immediately^  or  they  unU 
lose  their  colour  and  goodness.  Drain  the  water  from  them 
thoroughly  before  you  send  them  to  table. 

This  branch  of  Cookery  requires  the  most  vigilant  attention. 

If  Vegetables  are  a  minute  or  two  too  long  over  the  Fire^ 
they  lose  all  their  beauty  and  flavour. 

If  not  thoroughly  boiled  tender^  they  are  tremendously 
Indigestible^  and  much  more  troublesome  during  their  resi^* 
dence  in  the  Stomach,  than  imder-done  Meats.* 

To  preserve,  or  give  Colour  in  Cookery,  many  good  dishes 
are  spoiled :  but  the  rational  Epicure,  who  makes  nourish* 
ment  the  main  end  of  Eating,  will  be  content  to  sacrifice  the 
Shadow,  to  enjoy  the  Substance.     Vide  Obs»  to  No.  322. 

Once  for  all,  take  care  your  v^tables  are  fresh ; — ^for  as 
the  Fishmonger  often  suifers  for  the  sins  of  the  Cook,  so  the 
Cook  often  gets  undeservedly  blamed  instead  of  the  Green- 
grocer. 

Vegetables,  in  this  metropolis,  are  often  kept  so  long,  that 
no  art  can  make  them  either  look  or  eat  well. 

Strong  scented  Vegetables  should  be  kept  apart :  Leeks, 
or  Celery,  laid  among  Cauliflowers,  &c.  will  quickly  spoil 
them. 

*^  Succulent  Vegetables  are  best  preserved  in  a  cool  shady 
and  damp  place. 

^  Potatoes,  Turnips,  Carrots,  and  similar  Roots,  intended  to 
be  stored  up,  should  never  be  cleaned  from  the  earth  adhcT'* 
ing  to  them,  till  they  are  to  be  dressed. 

^  They  must  be  protected  from  the  action  of  the  air,  and 
frost,  by  laying  them  in  heaps,  burying  them  in  sand  or 
earth,  &c.  or  covering  them  with  straw  or  mats. 


*  ''  Cadliflowrrs  and  other  Vegetables  are  often  boiled  only 
crisp  to  preserve  their  Beauty.  For  the  look  alonp  they  had  better  not 
be  boileid  at  all,  and  almost  as  well  for  the  use,  as  in  this  crude  statft 
they  are  scarcely  digestible  by  the  strongest  stomach.  On  the  other 
hand,  when  over  boiled,  they  become  vapid,  and  in  a  state  similar  to 
decay,  in  which  they  afford  no  sweet  purifying  Juices  to  the  body,  but 
load  it  with  a  mass  of  mere  feculent  matter.'' — Domestic  Management, 
lamo.  18J3,  p.  09. 


VEGETABLES.  95 

**  The  action  of  Frost  destroys  the  life  of  the  Vegetable, 
and  it  speedily  rots." — Supp.  to  Edinb,  Encyclopedia^  vol. 
iv.  p.  335. 

Mem.  When  Vegetables  are  quite  fresh  gathered,  they 
will  not  require  so  much  boiling,  by  at  least  a  third  of  the 
time  they  take,'  when  they  have  been  gathered  the  usual  time 
those  are  that  are  brought  to  Public  markets. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY 


CHAPTER  VT. 


FISH. 


The  Marketing  Tables  at  the  end  of  this  Work  show| 
when  each  kind  of  Fish  is  Best  and  Cheapest. 

This  department  of  the  business  of  the  Kitchen  requires! 
considerable  experience,  and  depends  more  upon  practice 
than  any  other ; — a  very  few  momenJ^  more  or  less,  will 
thoroughly  spoil  Fish  ;*  which,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection, 
must  never  be  put  on  the  Table,  till  the  Soup  is  taken  otf. 


*  When  the  Cook  has  large  dinn^r^  to  prepare,  acd  the  time  of  senrinefl 
uncertain,  she  will  get  more  credit  by  fribd^  (see  No.  145.)  or  stewed, 
(see  No.  164.)  than  by  boiled  Fish.    It  is  also  cheaper,  and  much 
sooner  carved,  (see  No.  145.) 

Mr.  Ude,  paire  238  of  his  Cookery— advises,  **  If  you  are  obliged  to 
wait  after  the  Fish  is  done,  do  not  let  it  remain  in  the  water,  bnt  keep 
the  water  boiling — and  put  the  fish  over  it,  and  cover  it  with  a  damp 
doth — when  the  dinner  is  called  for,  dip  the  fish  again  in  the  water— 
and  serve  it  up."  .  ,   , 

The  only  circumstantial  instructions  yet  printed  for  Frying  Fish, 
the  Reader  will  find  in  No.  145  :  if  this  be  carefully  and  nicely  attended 
to,  you  will  have  delicious  food,  and  let  the  Fish-Eater  remember  tb« 
Epitaph  of  the  Musician  at  Marseilles  — 


-Gh 


T± 


XX 


■O^ 


which  being  read  according  to  the  French  gamut  and  prODUOciation— i» 
La^Sole—La^Mis—La, 


FISH.  97, 

So  many  circumstances  operate  on  this  o<:;casion,  it  id 
almost  impossible  to  write  general  rules. 

There  are  decidedly  different  opinions,  whether  Fish  should 
be  put  into  cold,  tepid,  or  boiling  water. 

We  believe  for  some  of  the  fame  the  Dutch  Cooks  have 
acquired,  they  are  a  little  indebted  to  their  situation,  affording 
them  a  plentiful  supply  of  Fresh  Fish  for  little  more  than  the 
trouble  of  catching  it ; — and  that  the  superior  excellence  of 
the  fish  in  Holland,  is  bediuse  none  are  used,  unless  they  are 
brought  alive  into  the  Kitchen,  (Mackarel  excepted,  whicifi  die 
the  moment  they  are  taken  out  of  the  water) .  The  Dutch 
are  as  nice  about  this,  as  Seneca  says  the  Romans*  were ; 
who,  complaining  of  the  luxury  of  the  times,  says,  "  they^ 
are  come  to  that  daintiness,  that  they  will  not  eat  a  Fish, 
unless  upon  the  same  day  that  it  is  taken,  that  it  may  taste  of 
the  sea,  as  they  express  it.'' 

On  the  Dutch  flat  coast,  the  Fish  are  taken  with  nets  ;  on 
OUT  rocky  coast,  they  are .  mostly  caught  by  bait  and  hook, 
which  instantly  kills  them. — Fish  are  brought  alive  by  land, 
to  the  Dutch  markets,  in  water  casks  with  air-holes  in  the 
top. — Salmon,  and  other  fish,  are  thus  preserved  in  rivers,  in 
a  well-holC)  in  the  fishing-boat. 

All  kinds  of  Fish  are  best  some  time  before  they 
begin  to  spawn — and  are  unfit  for  food  for  some  time  after 
they  have  spawned. 

fish,  like  ^nimcdsy  are'  fittest  for  the  Table  when  they  are 

just  full  grown ;  and  what  has  been  said  in  the  sixth  sentence* 

of  the  first  page  of  Chapter  V.  respecting  Vegetables^  applies 

equally  well  to  Fish      , 

The  most  convenient  Utensil  to  boil  Fish  in,  is  a  Turbot- 


*They  bad  Salt  Water  preserves  for  feedins^  different  kind?  of  Sea 
fisb;  those  in  the  ponds  of  LucuUus,  at  his  death,  sold  for  ^5,000/. 
sterling.  The  prolific  power  of  Fish  is  wonderful :  the  following  cul- 
CBlatioos  are  from  Petit,  Blocb.  and  Leuwenhoeck  : — 

A  Salmon  of  20  pounds  weight  contained  ....      27,850 

A  middling-sized  Pike 148,000 

AMackerel 546,681 

ACod 9,344,000 

See  Cours  Gastronomiquesy  18mo.  1806,  p.  241. 
P 


98  FISH. 

Kettlb  :  this  should  be  24  inches  long,  22  wide,  and  nine 
deep.     It  is  an  excellent  vessel  to  boil  a  Ham  in,  &c.  &c. 

The  good  folks  of  this  Metropolis  are  so  often  disappointed 
by  having  Fish  which  have  been  kept  too  long, — ^that  Aey  are 
apt  to  run  into  the  other  extreme,  and  suppose  that  Fish  will 
not  dress  well,  unless  it  is  absolutely  alive.  This  is  true  of 
Lobsters,  &c.  (No.  176)  and  may  be  of  Fresh-water  Fish, 
but  certainly  not  of  some  Sea  Fish. 

Several  respectable  Fishmongers  and  experienced  Cooks 
have  assured  the  Editor,  that  they  are  often  in  danger  of  losing 
their  credit,  by  fish  too  fresh,  and  especially  Turbot  and  CW, 
which,  like  Meat,  require  a  certain  time  before  they  are  in 
the  best  condition  to  be  dressed : — ^they  recommend  them  to 
be  put  into  Cold  Water  j  Salted  in  proportion,  of  about  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Sea  Water  is 
best  to  boil  Sea  fish  in : — ^it  not  only  saves  the  Expense  of 
Salt,  but  the  flavour  is  better :  let  them  boil  slowly  till  done; 
the  sign  of  which  is,  that  the  skin  of  the  fi^sh  rises  up,  and 
the  Eyes  turn  white.  '    . 

It  is  the  business  of  the  Fishmonger  to  cle^n  them,  &c. 
but  the  eareful  Cook  will  always  wash  them  again. 

Garnish,  with  slices  of  Lemon — ^finely  scraped  Horse- 
radish— fried  Oysters^  (No.  1 83.)— 5mp/^5,  (No.  173.} — or 
Whitings,  (No.  153.)  or  Strips  of  Soles,  as  directed  in 
No.  145. 

The  Liver — Roe' — and  Chitterlings — should  be  placed  so 
that  the  Carver  may  observe  them,  and  invite 'the  Guests  to 
partake  of  them. 

N.B.  Fish,  like  Meat,  requires  more  cooking  in  cold  than 
in  warm  weather; — ^if  it  becomes  Frozen,*  it  must  be 
thawed  bv  the  means  we  have  directed  for  Meat,  in  the  5th 
page  of  the  2d  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery.  To 
go  to  Market  for  Fish,  see  Observations,  after  (No.  182.) 
and  the  Marketing  Tables,  at  the  end  of  this  Work. 


*  Fish  is  very  frequently  spnt  borne  frosen  by  tbe  FisbmoDfper,  to 
^bom  ah  lee-hmtrse  is  now  as  cecessary  an  appendagD  (topreierve  Fish) 
— -^  it  in  to  a  Confbctionei^. 


FISH.  99 


nSH  SAUCES. 


The  MELTED  Butter  (No.  256.)  for  Fish,  should  be 
thick  enough  to  adhere  to  the  Fish,  and^refore,  must  be  o  f 
the  thickness  of  light  Batter,  as  it  is  to  be  diluted  with — 
Essence  op  Anchovy,  (No.  433.) — Soy,  (No.  436.) — 
Mushroom  Catsup,  (No.  439.)  Cayenne,  (No.  404.)  or 
Chilli  Vinegar,  (No.  405.)  Lemons  of  Lemon  Juice, 
or  Artificial  Lfitnon  Juice,  see  (No.  407.*)  &c.  which  are 
expected  at  all  well-served  Tables. 

Cooks,  who  are  jealous  of  the  reputation  of  their  Taste, 
and  Housekeepers'  who  value  their  Health,  wUl  prepare 
these  articles  at  home ;— there  are  quite  as  many  reasons  why 
they  should,  as  there  are  for  the  preference  usually  given  to 
Home^baked  Bread  and  Home-Brewed  Beer,*  &c. 

N.  B.  The  Liver  of  the  Fish,  pounded  and  mixed  with 
Butter,  with  a  little  Lemon  Juice,  &c.  is  an  elegant  and  in^ 
offensive  relish  to  Fish,  See  {No.  288.)  Mushroom  Sauce 
Extempore,  (No.  307,)  the  Soop  of  Mock  Turde,  (No.  247,) 
will  make  art  excellent  Fish  Sauce. 

On  the  comparatively  nutritives  qualities  of  Fish,  see  N.  B; 
to  (No.  181.) 

•  See  *' Homb-Brewed  Ale,"  by  a  Housekeeper,  RobinsoD,  1804: 
in  page  18,  our  Housekeeper  tells  us,  that  "a  poor  widow,  in  his 
neighbourhood,  has  fitted  up  a  Brewery  for  the  sum  of  eighteen  pence 
tterling!  A  butter-tub  (price  nine-pence,)  is  her  mash-tub:  three 
balf  tubs  of  smaller  size,  (at  tkree-pence  each)  are  her  coolers — with 
these  she  brews  half  a  bushel  of  malt  at  a  time,  and  declares  that  she 
finds  her  Home- Brewed  Ale  "  very  con^fortable  indeed'* ! !  I^See  also 
AAiKrLiNgoK  ou  Brbwikg  Malt  Liquor  for  Domestic  me—printed 
for  Johnson,  %nd  Edition,  18«)7,  price  \s. 


V  2 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 


The  Cook  must  pay  continual  attention  to  the  condition  of- 
her  Stewpans*  and  Soup  kettles,  &c. — which  should  be  ex- 
amined every  time  they  are  used.  The  prudent  Housewife  will 
carefully  examine  the  condition  of  them  herself  at  least  once  a 
month.  Their  covers  also  must  be  kept  perfectly  clean  and 
well  tinned,  and  the  Stewpans  not  only  on  the  inside,  butabout 
a  couple  of  inches  on  the  outside : — many  mischiefs  arise  from 
their  getting  out  of  repair,  and  if  not  kept  7iicely  tinned^  aUyour 
good  work  will  he  in  vain;  the  Broths  and  Sopps  will  look 
green  and  dirty,  taste  bitter  and  poisonous,  and  will  be  spoiled 
both  for  the  Eye  and  Palate,  and  your  credit  will  be  lost. 

The-  Health,  and  even  Life  of  the  family  depends  upon 
this,  and  the  Cook  may  be  sure,  her  Employers  had  rather 
pay  the  Tinman's  bill  than  the  Doctor's ; — therefore,  atten- 
tion to  this  cannot  fail  to  engage  the  regard  of  the  Mistress, 
between  whom  and  the  Cook,  it  will  be  my  utmost  endea- 
vour to  promote  perfect  Harmony. 

If  a  servant  has  the  misfortune  to  scorch  or  blister  the 
tinning  of  her  Pan,f  which  will  happen  sometimes  to  the 
most  careful  Cook, — I  advise  her,  by  all  means,  immediately 
to  acquaint  her  employers,  who  will  thank  her  for  candidly 
mentioning  an  accident ;  and  censm'e  her  deservedly  if  she 
conceal  it. 

Take  care  to  be  properly  provided  with  Sieves  and 
Tammy  cloths, — Spoons  and   Ladles, — make  it  a    rule 

without  an  exception^  never^  to  use  them  till  they  are  well 

— — 

*  We  prefer  the  form  of  a  Stewpan,  <o  the  Soup-Pot, — the  former  is 
more  convenieut  to  skim  ;  the  most  useful  size  is  12  inches  diameter 
by  6  inches  deep  :  this  we  would  have  of  Silver,— or  Iron,— or  Cop- 
per lined  (not  plated>  with  Silver. 

f  This  may  be  altcays  avoided  by  Browning  your  meat  in  the  Fiy' 
ing  pan— it  is  the  browning  oi  the  meat  that  destroys  the  Stewpan. 


snOTHS  AND  SOUPS«  ID  I 

cleaned  and  thoroi]|h1y  dried, — ^nor  any  Stewpans,  &c.  with- 
out first  washing  them  out  with  boiling  water,  and  rubbing 
them  well  with  a » dry  cloth  and  a  little  bran,  to  clean  them 
from  grease,  ss^,  &c.  or  any  bad  smell  they  may  have  got 
since  they  were' last  used :  never  neglect  this. 

Though  we  do  not  suppose  our  Cook  to  be  such  a  naughty 
Slut,  as  to  wilftilly  neglect  her  Broth  Pots,  &c.  yet  we  niay 
tecommend  Iter  to  wash  them  immediately,  and  take  care  they 
are  thorou^jty  dried  before  the  fire,  before  they  are  put  by, 
and  to  keep  them  in  a  dry  place,  for  damp  will  rust  and  de- 
stroy them  very  soon :— -attend  to  this  the  first  moment  you 
can  spare  "after  the  dinner  is  sent  up. 

Never  put  by  any  Soup,  Gravy,  &c.,  in  a  metal  utensil; 
in  which,  never  keep  any  thing  longer  than  is  absolutely  ne- 
cessary for  the  purposes  of  Cookery, — ^the  acid,  vegetables, 
^nd  fat,  &c.  efnployed  in  making  them,  are  capable  of  dis- 
solving them ;  therefore,  stone  or  earthen  vessels  should  be 
used  for  this  purpose. 

Stewpans,  Soup-pots,  and  Preserving  Pans,  with  • 
thick  and  round  bottoms,  (such  as  saucepans  are  made  with) 
will  wear  twice  as  long,  and  are  cleaned  with  half  the  trou- 
ble, as  those  whose  sides  are  soldered  to  the  bottom,  of  which 
iSaitd  and  Grease  get  into  the  joined  party  and  Cookevs  say 
that  it  is  next  to  an  impossibility  to  dislodge  it,  even  if  their 
nails  are  as  long  as  r)ebuchadnezzar*s.  The  Editor  claims 
the  credit  of  having  first  suggested  the  importance  of  this 
construction  of  these  utensils. 

Take  care  that  the  Lids  fit  as  close  as  possible,  that  the  Broth, 
Soup,  and  Sauces,  &c.  may  not  waste  by  evaporation.*     They 

^  l^>—— ^      ■»!  I  II  MIWlWI  !■■—     ■!■■■■     ^^M^^l      l^^.l..        ■■■  ■■!  I^—— ■  ^         ■■»  — ^^^  I  -PI 

*  •'  Fit-OD  jamais  de  bon  bouillon — dans  une  marmlte  d^coaverte? 
Quelle  diff^^rence  de  goAt,  d*odeur,et  de  substance  entre  une  tranche 
deBoeuf  cuite  k  feu  lent,  dans  un  vaisseau  ferm6,ou  un  nniorcettude  Boeuf 
cult  k  gross  bouilioDs,  dans  uoe  marmite  entieremeBt  ouverte  I  L'avai^- 
tftge  en  est  si  consequent,  que  j'ai  souvent  reussi  afairede  meiUear 
bouillon,  en  quantity  ^gale,  avec  moiti^  moins  de  viande,  dans  une 
marmite  bien  fer  mee,  qu'avec  le  double  dans  un  vaisseau  ouvert.  D'ou 
provient  done  cette  difference  6tonnante?  C'est  que  dans  un  vaisseau 
decouvert,  la  plus  grande  partie  du  sue  des  viandes  et  du  bouillon  se 
dissipeot  en  vapeurs,  tandis  que  daus  un  vaisseau  ferm^,  ees  extiala- 
tions  putriiives^  toujours  condensees,  sont  dans  unn  distillation  per- 
p^tuelie,  qui,  retombant  dans  le  vase  comme  la  ros^,  conoentrel  a  totality 
de  lears  sues,  et  conserve  toutes  leurs  substances  nouricieres.'' 


102  BROTHS  AND  SOUPl^. 

are  gaod  for  nothing,  unless  they  fit  tight  enough  to  keep  the 
Steam  in  and  the  Smoke  out. 

Stewpans  and  Saucepans  should  he  always  Inright  on  the 
upper  rim,  where  the  fire  does  not  bum  them  :  but  toscower 
them  all  over,  is  not  only  giving  the  Cook  needless  trouble* 
but  wearing  out  the^vessels.  See  Observations  on  Sauce- 
pans in  the  4th  page  of  Chapter  I. 

Cultivate  habits  of  regularity  and  cleanliness,  &c.  in  all 
your  business,  which  you  will  then  get  through  easily  and 
comfortably.— I  do  not  mean  the  restless  spirit  of  Molidttsta, 
"*  the  Tidy  One,^*  who  is  anon,  anon.  Sir,  frisking  about, 
in  a  whirlpool  of  bustle  and  confusion ;  and  is  always  dirty, 
•rounder  pretence  of  being  always  cleaning. 

Lean  juicy  Beef,  Mutton,  or  Veal,  form  the  basis  of  Broth : 
-^procure  those  pieces  which  aiford  the  richest  {^ucculence* 
and  as  fresh  killed  as  possible.*  See  The  Marketing 
.Tables  at  the  end  of  ihis  work. 

Stale  Meat  will  make  broth  grouty  and  bad  tasted,  and  Fat 
meat  <  is  wasted.  This  only  applies  to  those  Broths  which 
are  reqmred  to  be  perfectly  clear :  we  shall  show  hereater, 
in  (No.  229.)  that  Fat  and  Clarified  Drippinas  may  be  so 
combined  with  Vegetable  Mucilage,  as  to  afibrd,  at  the  small 
cost  of  one  Penny  per  Quart,  a  noxirishing  and  paUir 
table  Soup,  fully  adequate  to  satisfy  Appetite  and  siq[^KHt 
strength : — this  will  open  a  new  source  to  those  benevoleiU 
'housekeepers,  who  are  disposed  to  relieve  the  Poor,  will 
show  the  industrious  classes  how  much  they  have  it  in  their 
pewer  to  assist  themselves,  and  rescue  them  from  being  ob- 
j.ect3  of  Charity  dependent  on  the  precarious  bounty  of  others, 
by  teaching  them  how  they  may  obtain  a  cheap,  abundant, 
'  salubrious,  and  agreeable  aliment  for  themselves  and  families. 

This  Soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  easily  and  very 
SQOD  made,  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm  a 
room — those  who  have  not  tasted  it,  cannot  imagine  what  a 

*  In  general,  it  li«s  been  considered  the  best  Ecokom v  to  qae  the 
:£faeapest  and  most  inferior  mPHts  lor  Suu)),  <lrc.  and  to  boil  it  down  till 

it  is  entirely  destroyed,  and  baldly  worth  p^ittin^  into  the  Uog^tub. 

This  is  a  false  Frugality  :  buy  good  pieces  of  Meat,  and  ffnlff  ttcip 
jthem  nil  they  are  done  enough  to  be  eaten* 


BROTHS  AND  80UF9.  103 

salubrious,  savory  and  satisfying  Meal  is  produced  by  the  ju^ 
dicious  combination  of  cheap  homely  ingredients. 

Scotch  Barley  Broth,  (No.  204)  will  furnish  a  Chod 
Dinner  of  Sdup  and  Meat  for  Five^pence  per  Head,  Pease 
Soup  (No.  221),  will  cost  only  Siimence  per  Quarts  Ox 
Tail  Soup  (No.  240)  or  the  same  Fortablb  Soup,  (No. 
252)  for  Five^pence  per  Quarts  and  (No.  224)  an  exceUeot 
Gravy  Soup  for  Four-pence  halfpenny  per  Quart,  Duck 
GiBLET  Soup,  (No.  244)  for  Three-'pence,  per  Quart,  and 
Fowls'  Head  Soup  in  the  same  manner  for  still  lessy  (No. 
239)  will  ^ive  you  A  good  and  plentiful  dinner  for 
Six  people  for  Tivo  Shillings  and  Tivo-pence  ^  See  also  Shin 
OF  Beef  stewed,  (No.  493)*  and  Alamod£  Beep  (No.  502.) 

BROTH   herbs,  SOUP  ROOTS,  AND  SEASONINGS. 


Scotch  barley,  (No.  204.) 

Pearl  barley. 

Flour, 

Oatmeal,  (No.  572.) 

BFead, 

Raspings, 

Peas,  (No.  218.) 

Beans, 

Rice,  (No.  321.*) 

Vermicelli, 

Maccaroni,  (No.  513.) 

Isinglass, 


Potatoe  mucilage,  (No.  448.) 

Mushrooms,*  (No.  439.) 

Champignons, 

Parwiips,  (No.  213.) 

Carrots,  (No.  212.) 

Beet  Roots, 

Turnips,  (No.  208.) 

Garlick, 

Shallots,  see  (No.  402.) 

OnionSjf 

Leeks, 

Cucumber,^ 


*  Mushroom  CATsrrp,  made  as  (No.  439,) or  (No.  440,)  will  answer 
aU  the  purpose  of  Mashrooms  in  soup  or  sauce,  and  no  sUSre-room 
should  be  without  a  stock  of  it. 

t^All  Cooks  agree  in  this  opinion, 
**JVb  savory  dtsh  without  an  Onion. 

Sliced  Onitms  fried,  see  (No.  299,)  and  note  under  (No.  51T,)  with 
some  butter  and  flour,  till  they  are  browned,  (and  rubbed  through  a 
ne?e,)  are  excellent  to  heighten  the  colour  and  flavour  of  brown  soups 
and  sauces,  and  form  the  basis  of  -  most  of  ttie  Relishes  furnished  by  tlie 
*'  Bestaurateurs*' — as  we  guess  from  the  odour  which  ascends  from  their 
Kitchens,  and  salutes  our  olfactory  nerves  "  en  passant,*' 

The  older  and  drier  the  ouioo,  the  strongier  its  flfivour,  and  the  Cook 
will  relate  tbe  quantity  she  uses  accordingly. 

I  Burnet  has  exactly  the  same  flavour  as  Cucumber, — see  Burnet 
"Vinegar,  (No.  399.) 


104 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 


Celery,  (No.  214.) 
Celery  seed,* 
Cress  seed,  see  (No.  397.f ) 
:Parsley,t    see  N.B.   to   (No. 

261.) 
Common  Thyme,f 
Lemon  Thyme,f 
Orange  Thy  me,  f 
Knotted  Marjorum,f  (No.  417.) 
Saffe  i* 

Mint',  (No.  398.) 
Winter  Savory ,f 
Sweet  Basil,t  (No.  397.) 
Bay  leaves, 


Tomatoe, 

tarragon,  (No.  396.) 

Chervil, 

Burnet,  (No.  399.) 

Allspice, J  (No.  412.) 

Cinnamon, J  (No.  416.*) 

Ginger,  J  (No.  411.) 

Nutmeg,J 

Clove,  (No.  414.) 

Mace, 

Black  pepper. 

Lemon-peel,    (No.  407    and 

408.) 
White  pepper. 


*  The  conceotrntion  of  flavoHr  in  Celbrt  and  Cress  Seed  is  sucb, 
that  half  a  drachm  of  it,  (finely  poutidedj  or  double  the  quantilj'  if  Dot 
ground  or  pounded,  costing  only  one-third  of  a  Farthing,  will  impr^- 
nate  half  a  gallon  of  soup  \yith  almost  as  much  relish  as  two  or  three 
heads  of  the  fresh  vegetable,  weighing  seven  ounces,  and  costing  Two- 
pence. This  valuable  acquisition  to  the  Soup-pot  deserves  to  be  univer- 
sally known.  See  also  (No.  409,)  Essence  of  Celerv.  This  is  the 
most  frugal  relish  we  have  lo  introduce  to  the  Economist— but  that  our 
judgment  in  Palates  may  not  be  called  in  question  by  our  fellow  mortals, 
who,  as  the  Craniologists  say,  happen  to  have  the  Organ  of  Taste 
stronger  than  the  Organ  of  Accumulativeness,  we  must  confess,  that, 
with  the  flavour  it  does  not  impart  the  delicate  sweetness,  <fec.  of  the 
fresh  Vegetable :  and  when  used,  a  bitof  Sujs^ar  should  accompany  iU 

t  See  (No  419)  and  (No.  420)  and  (No.  459.)  Fresh  green  Basil  is 
seldom  to  be  procured.  When  dried,  much  of  its  fine  flavour  is  lost, 
which  is  fully  extracted  by  pouring  wine  on  the  fresh  leaves,  (see  397.) 

To  procure  and  preseiTe  the  flavour  of  sweet  and  savory  herbs, 
Celery,  (fee.  these  must  be  dried,  <fec.  at  home,  (see  No.  417*  and  461.) 

t  See  (No.  421)  and  (No.  457.)  Sir  Hans  Sloane,  in  the  Phil.  Trans. 
Abr.  vol.  xi.  p.  667,  says,  *'  Pimento,  the  spice  of  Jamaica,  or  Allspice, 
so  called,  from  having  a  flavour  composed  as  it  were  of  Cloves,  Cinna- 
mon, Nutmegs,  and  Pepper,  may  deservedly  be  counted  the  best  and 
most  temperate,  mild,  and  innocent,  of  common  spices,  almost  all  of 
which  it  far  surpasses,  by  promoting  the  digestion  of  meat,  and  mode- 
rately heating  and  strengthening  the  stomach,  and  doing  those  friendly 
ofiices  to  the  bowels,  we  generally  expect  from  spices.*'  We  have 
always  been  of  the  same  opinion  as  Sir  Hans,  and  believe  the  only 
reason  why  it  is  the  least  esteemed  spioe  is — because  it  is  the  cheapest. 
**  What  folks  get  easy  they  never  enjoy." 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  105 

,Lemon-juice,*     •  Essence  of  Anchovy,  see  (No. 

Seville  orange  j  uice,f  4  33 . 

The  above  Materials — Wine  and  Mushroom  Catsup,  (No. 
439),  combined  in  various  proportions,  will  make  an  endless 
variety:^  of  excellent  Broths  and  Soups,  quite  as  pleasant  to 
the  Palate,  and  as  useful  and  agreeable  to  the  Stomach,  as 
ccHisuming  Pheasants  and  Partridges,  and  the  long  list  of 
inflammatory,  piquantey  and  rare  and  costly  articles,  recom- 
mended by  former  Ck)okery-book  makers,  whose  elaborately 
compounded  Soups,  are  like  their  Made  Dishes ;  in  which, 
though  variety  is  aimed  at,  every  thing  has  the  same  Taste,^^ 
and  nothing  its  own^ 


♦  If  yoa  have  not  fresh  Oranjire  or  Lbmon  Juicb,  or  Coxwell's  crys- 
tallized Lemon  Acid,  tlte  Artificial  Lemon  Juice  (No.  407)  is  a  good 
sabstitute  for  it. 

f  The  juice  of  the  Sevillb  Orakob  is  to  be  preferred  to  that  ofthe, 
Lbmpn.— the  Flavour  is  finer,  and  the  Acid  milder. 

X  The  erudite  cSditor  of  the  **  Almanack  dea  Gourmands,**  vol.  ii.  p. 
30.  tells  us,  that  ten  folio  volumes  would  Dot  contain  the  R^eipts  of  all 
the  Soups  that  have  been  invented  in  that  Grand  School  of  Good  Eat- 
ing,—the  Parisian  Kitchen. 

We  add  the  following  Directions  for  Soop-makino  from  the  cele- 
brated French  Chemist,  Pa  rm bn ti  e r  .'-^ 

Rigles  ginirales  pour  la  Preparation  dee  Bouillons  AUmewtaires,   . 

1 .  Viande  saine,  et  convenablement  saignee. 
'  2.  Vaisseaux  de  terre,  de  pr6fi§rence  a  ceux  de  m^tal,  parce  que  les 
premiers  sont  moins  conducteurs  de  la  cbaleur,  et  qa'une  iois  ^cfaauffes^ 
UD  pen  de  cendre  chaude  enlretient  I'^bullition  l^gere  que  Pon  desire.  ^ 

3.  Eau  en  quantity  double  du  poids  k  celle  de  la  viande  employ^. 

4.  Suffisante  quantity  de  sel  commun  pour  faciliter  la  separation  de 
Palbumine,  ainsi  que  sa  coagulation  sous  forme  d^6cHme. 

5.  Temperature  capable  de  porter  le  ro^Ianj^e  k  r^bullition  pendant 
tput  le  temps  que  P^cume  se  rassemblera  a  la  surface  du  liqnide^  et  qu'on 
aura  soin  d'en  s^parer  exactement. 

0.  Temperature  plus  basse  apres  Pop^ration  pT^eedente,  et  toujours 
eoDstante,  afin  que  le  liquide  ne  fasse  que  frimir  legerement,  pour 
donner  le  temps  aux  substances  nutritives,  colorantes  et  extractives, 
contenues  dans  la  viande,  de  s'unir  et  de  se  combiner  avec  Peau,  dans 
Pordre  qui  couvient  iH  leur  solubility.— Farm bntier,  Code  Phar» 
WMeeuUpte,  1811,  p.  444. 

F  5     • 


J  06  BR9Tlf0  APJP  SO«P$. 

The  general  fauh  of  our  English  Souba,  seems  to  he  the 
employment  of  an  excess  of  Spice,  and  too  small  a  portUm  of 
Roots  and  Herbs.* 

Besides  the  ingredients  I  have  enumerated,  many  Oulinanr 
serihes  indiscriminately  cram  into  almost  every  Dish  (in  such 
inordinate  Quantities — one  would  suppose  they  were  working 
for  the  Asbestos  palate  of  an  Indian  Fire-Eater)  Anchovies, — 
Garlic,t — ^Bay  leaves,  and  that  hot  fiery  spice  Cav«»««J  pep- 
per; this,  which  the  French  call  (not  undeservedly)  Piment 
enragi,  (No.  404,)  has  somehow  or  other,  unaccountably 
acquired  a  character  for  being  very  wholesome — whilst  the 
milder  Peppers  and  Spices,  are  cried  down,  as  destroying  the 
sensibility  of  the  Palate,  and  Stomach,  &c.,  and  being  the 
source  of  a  thousand  mischiefs. — We  should  just  as  soon  re- 
commend Alcohol  as  being  less  intoxicating  than  fVine. 

The  best  thing  that  has  been  said  in  praise  of  Peppers  is, 
"  thsM:  with  all  kinds  of  Vegetables,  as  also  with  Soups  (espe- 
•'  cially  vegetable  soups)  and  Fish,  either  Black  or  CoLyenns 

Pepper  may  be  taken  freely :  they  are  the  most  useful 

stimulants  to  Old  Stomachs,  and  often  supersede  the  crav- 


«c 


*  "  Point  de  Legumes^  point  de  Cuisini^ef"  U  a  favourite  culinary 
ndidfre  of  the  French  kitebeo  ;  and  deserves  to  be  so :  a  better  soup  may 
be  made  with  a  couple  of  pounds  of  Meat  and  plenty  of  Vegetables,  than 
our  common  Cooks  will  make  you  with  four  times  that  quantity  of  meat ; 
all  for  want  of  knowing  the  uses  of  Soup  pootaj,  and  ^^eet  and  8arory 
herbs. 

t  Many  a  i^^ood  dish  is  spoiled,  by  the  cook  not  knowing  the  pr<^r 
use  of  this,  which  is  to  give  a  flavour,  and  not  to  he  predominant  over 
the  other  ingredients :  a  morsel  mushed  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and 
stirred  in,  is  enough.    See  (No.  402.) 

I  Foreigners  have  strange  notions  of  English  Taste,  on  which  one  of 
their  Culinary  Professors  has  made  the  following  comment:  '*  The 
organ  of  Taste  in  these  Islanders  is  very  different  from  our  Delicate 
Palates — and  cuuce  that  would  excoriate  the  palate  of  a  Frepchman, 
would  be  hardly  piquante  enough  to  make  any  impression  on  that  of 
an  Englishman; — thus,  they  prefer  Port  to  Cliiret,*'  &c.  As  fay  as 
concerns  our  Drinking,  we  wish  there  was  not  quite  ao  much  truth  in 
Monsieur*8  remarks:  but  the  characteristic  of  the  French  and  Eqglis)i 
kitchen  is,  Sauce  without  Substance — and  Substance  without  Sauce, 

To  make  Ca t  en  nb  of  English  Chillies^  of  infinitely  finer  flavour 
than  the  Indian^  see  (No.  4Q1.) 


fiROTiiS  AND  SCrnPS.  107 

'^  ings  for  strong  drinks ;  or  dimiaish  the  quantity  otherwise 
*''  required."  ^  Sir  A.  CARiiiSL£  oit  Old  jige,  London^ 
1817.  A  certain  portion  of  Condiment  is  occasionally  servioe- 
ahle  to  excite  and  keep  up  the  languid  action  of  'feeble  and 
advanced  Life ;  we  must  increase  tbe  stimulus  of  our  aliment 
as  the  inirriiability  of  our  system  increases.— We  leave  thoie 
who  love  these  things^  to  use  tJiem  as  they  like ;  their  flavours 
caa  be  veiy  extemporaneously  produced  by  Chilly-juice,  or 
essence  of  Cayenne  (No.  405),  Eshallot  wine  (No.  402],  and 
Essence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433). 

There  is  no  French  Dinner  without  Soup,  which  is  re- 
garded as  an  indispensable  Overture ; — ^it  is  commonly  followed 
by  "  k  Coup  d'ApreSy^^  a  Glass  of  pure  Wine,  which  they 
coQsider  so  wholesome  after  Soup,  that  their  Proverb  says,  the 
Physician  thereby  loses  a  Fee : — whether  the  glass  of  Wine 
be  so  much  more  advantageous  for  the  Patient  than  it  is  for 
his  Doctor,  we  know  not,  but  believe  it  an  excellent  plan  to 
begin  the  Bainquet  with  a  basin  of  good  Soup,  which,  by 
ffloderating  the  Appetite  for  solid  Animal  foodi  is  certainly  a 
salutiferous  custom. — Between  the  Roasts  and  the  EntremSts 
they  introduce  ''  le  Cktup  dti  Milieu* *-^or  a  small  glass  of 
Jamaica  Rum^  or  Essence  of  Punchy  see  (No.  471);  or 
CuRAgAo  (No.474.) 

The  introduction  of  LiQuisuRS  is  hy  no  means  a  modern 
custom ;  our  ancestors  were  very  fond  of  a  highly  spiced 
stimulus  of  this  sort,  commonly  called  Ipocrasse^  which  gene- 
rally made  a  part  of  the  last  course,— or  was  taken  immediately 
after  dinner. 

The  Crafte  to  make  Ypocras. 

**  Take  a  quarte  of  red  wyne^  an  oimce  of  synamon,  and 
haife  an  ounce  of  gynger ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  greynes 
(probably  of  paradise)  and  long  pepper,  and  halfe  a  pounde 
of  sugar ;  and  brose  ( bruise)  all  this  fnot  too  small  J  ^  and 
then  put  them  in  a  bage  fbagj  of  wullen  clothe,  tnade  there- 
ibre,  with  the  Wyne ;  and  lete  it  hange  over  a  vessel,  till 
the  wynee  be  run  thorowe."-r—xln  extract  from  Arnold^ s 
Chronicle. 

It  is  a  Custom  which  almost  universally  prevails  in  the 
Northern  parts  of  Europe,  to  present  a  Dram  or  glass  of 


m 


BROTHS  AND  S0UPS. 


qigueur,  before  sittiiig  down  to  Dinner : — ^this  ans\lrers  the 
double  purpose  of  a  whet  to  the  Appetiie,  and  an  announce- 
metit  that  Dinner  is  on  the  point  of  being  served  up.  Along 
with  the  Dram,  is  presented  on  a  waiter,  little  square  pieces 
of  Cheese,  slices  of  cold  Tonj2:ue,  and  dried  Tongue,  and  dried 
Toast,  accompanied  with  fresh  Caviar, 

We  again  caution  the  Cook  to  avoid  Over-Seasoning^  espe- 
cially with  predominant  flavours,  which,  however  agreeable 
they  may  be  to  some,  are  most  extremely  disagreeable  to 
others,  see  page  48. 

Zest  (No.  :;i55).  Soy  (No.  436),— Cavice— Coratch— An- 
chovy  (No.  433),— Curry  powder  (No.  455),— Savoury 
Ragout  Powder  (No.  457),— Soup  Herb  Powder  (No.  459) 
—and  (460),— Browning  (No.  322),— Catsups  (No.  432),— 
Pickle  Liquor— Beer- Wine,  and  Sweet  Herbs,  and  Savoury 
Spice  (No.  460),  are  very  convenient  auxiliaries  to  finish 
Soups,  &c. 

The  proportion  of  Wine  (formerly  Sack, — ^then  Claret— 
now  Madeira  or  Port  (should  not  exceed  a  lai^e  Wiiie-glassfW 
to  a  Quart  of  Soup : — ^this  is  as  much  as  can  be  admitted, 
without  the  vinous  flavour  becoming  remarkably  predomi- 
nant ; — ^though  not  only  much  larger  quantities  of  Wine,  (of 
which  Claret  is  incomparably  the  best,  because  it  contains 
less  spirit  and  more  flavour,  and  English  palates  are  less 
acquainted  with  it) ;  but  evenvSritable  Eau  de  Ttels  ordered 
in  many  books,  and  used  by  many  (especially  Tavern  Cooks) 
—-so  much  are  their  Soups  overloaded  with  relish,  that  if  you 
will  eat  enough  of  them  they  will  certainly  make  you  Drunk, 
if  they  don't  make  you  Sick — all  this,  frequently  arises  from 
an  old  Cook  measuring  the  excitability  of  the  Eaters'  palates 
by  his  own, — which  may  be  so  blunted  by  incessant  Tasting, 
that  to  awaken  it,  requires  Wine  instead  of  Wuter,  and  Cay- 
enne and  Garlick,  for  Black  Pepper  and  Onion. 

Old  Cooks  are  as  fond  of  Spice,  as  Children  are  of  Sugary 
and  season  SOUP,  which  is  intended  to  constitute  a  principsd 
part  of  a  Meal,  as  highly  as  SAUCE,  of  which  only  a  spoon- 
ful  may  be  Relish  enough  for  a  plate 'of  insipid  Viands.  See 
OBS.to  (No.  355). — However,  we  fancy  these  lai^  quantities 
of  Wine,  &c.  are  oftener  ordered  in  Cookery  Books  than  used  in 
the  Kitchen :— practical  Cooks  have  the  Health  of  their  em- 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  109 

ployers  too  much  at  heart,  and  love  "  Sauce  d  la  Langue*^ 
too  well  to  overwine  their  Soup,  &c. 

Truffles  and  Morels*  are  also  set  down  as  a  part  of 
most  receipts. — These,  in  their  Green  state,  have  a  very  rich 
high  flavour,  and  are  delicious  additions  to  some  dishes,  or 
sent  up  as  a  stew  by  themselves,  when  they  are  fresh  and 
fine ;  but  in  this  state  they  are  not  served  up  half  a  dozen 
times  in  a  year,  at  the  first  tables  in  the  kingdom : — when 
dried,  they  become  mere  **  chips  in  pottage^'"*  and  serve  only 
to  soak  up  good  gravy, — from  which,  they  take  more  taste  than 
they  give. 

The  j^rt  of  composing  a  rich  Sonp,  is  so  to  proportion  the 
several  ingredients  one  to  another,  that  no  particular  Taste 
be  stronger  than  the  rest ; — ^but  to  produce  sucn  a  fine  harmo- 
nious relish,  that  the  whole  is  delightful ; — this  requires  that 
judicious  combination  of  the  matenals  which  constitutes  the 
**  chef-d'oeuvre^'*  of  Culinary  Science. 

In  the  first  place,  take  care  that  the  Roots  and  Herbs 
be  perfectly  well  cleaned; — proportion  the  Water  to  the 
quantity  of  Meat,  and  other  ingredients, — generally  a  pound 
of  meat  to  a  quart  of  water  for  Soups ;  and  double  that  quan- 
tity for  Gravies.  If  they  Stew  gentb/y  little  more  water  need 
be  put  in  at  first,  than  is  expected  at  the  end ; — ^for  when  the 
Pot  is  covered  quite  close,  and  the  fire  gentle,  very  little  is 
wasted. 

Gentle  Stewing  is  incomparably  the  best, — the  Meat  is 
more  tender,  and  the  Soup  better  flavoured. 

It  is  of  the  first  importance,  that  the  Cover  of  a  Soup  Kettk 
should  fit  very  close, — or  the  broth,  will  evaporate  before  you 
are  aware  of  it.  The  most  essential  parts  are  soon  evaporated 
by  Quick  Boiling — without  any  benefit,  except  to  fatten  the 
fortunate  Cook  who  inhales  them.  An  evident  proof  that 
these  Exhalations  f  possess  the  most  restorative  qualities,  is, 

^1 ■ —  ■    '  ' 

*  NYe  tried  to  makeCatsap  of  these,  by  treating  them  like  Mushrooms 
(No.  439),  but  did  not  succeed. 

f  *'  A  poor  man  being  very  hunjriy,  staid  so  long  in  a  Cook's  shop, 
wbo  \ras  dishing  up  meat,  that  bis  stomach  was  satisfied  with  otily  the 
smell  thereof.  The  Choleric  Cook  demanded  of  him  to  pay  for  his 
breakfast;  the  poor  man  denied  having  had  any,  and, the  controversy 
was  referred  to  the  deciding  (^  the  next  man  that  should  pass  by,  ^hb 


1]0  BROTHS  A^D  S(HJP3» 

that  thbCook— who  is  in  jg«neralthe  least  Eater,— is,  as  ^ne- 
rally,  the  Fattest  person  in  the  Family,  from  continually  bjgiixg 
surrounded  by  the  Quintessence  of  all  the  food  she  dresses,— 
whereof,  she  seods  to  her  Master  only  the  fibres  and  Cal- 
cinations,—  who  is  consequently  Thin — Crouty — and  the 
Victim  of  Diseases  arising  from  insufficient  nourishment. 

It  is  not  only  (he  fibres  of  the  meat  which  nourish  us,  but 
the  Juices  they  contain,  and  these  are  not  only  extracted  but 
exhaled,  if  it  be  boiled  fast  in  an  open  vessel — a  succulent 
soup  can  never  be  made  but  in  a  well  closed  vessel^  which 
preserves  the  nutritive  parts  by  preventing  their  dissipation. 
— This  is  a  fact  of  which  every  intelligent  person  will  soon 
perceive  the  importance. 

Place  your  Soup  pot  over  a  moderate  fire f  which  will  make 
the  water  hot^  without  causing  it  to  boil  for  at  least  half  on 
hour  ; — if  the  water  boils  immediately,  it  will  not  penetrate 
the  meat,  and  cleanse  it  from  the  clotted  blood,  and  other 
matters  which  ought  to  go  off  in  skum ;  the  meat  will  be 
hardened  aH'oyer  by  violent  Heat, — ^will  shrink  up  as  if  it  was 
scorched,  and  give  hardly  an^  Gravy ;— on  the  contrary, — ^by 
keeping  the  Water  a  certain  time  heating  without  boiling, — ^the 
Meats  swells — becomes  tender — its  fibres  are  dilated — and  it 
yields  a  quantity  of  Skum,  which  must  be  taken  off  as  soon 
as  it  appears. 

It  is  not  till  after  a  good  Half  Hour's  hot  infusion,  that  we 
may  mend  the  Fire,  and  make  the  Pot  boil— still  continue  to 
remove  the  Skum,  and  when  no  more  appears,  put  in  the 
Vegetables,  &c.  and  a  little  salt.  These  will  cause  more 
^kum  to  rise, — which  must  be  taken  off  immediately — then 
cover  the  pot  very  closely,  and  place  it  at  a  proper  distance 
from  the  fire,  where  it  will  boil  very  gently,  and  equally,  and 
by  no  means  fast. 

By  quick  and  strong  Boiling,  the  volatile  and  finest  parts 
le  ingredients  are  evaporated,  and  fly  off  with  the  steam. 


of  the 


chanced  to  be  the  most  notorious  Idiot  in  the  whole  city:  he,  on  the  rela* 
tion  of  the  matter,  determined  that  the  poor  man's  money  should  be  put 
betwixt  two  empty  dishes^  and  the  cook  should  be  recompensed  with 
the  jingling  of  the  poor  man's  money,  as  he  was  satisfiai  with  the  smell 
of  the  Cook's  meat."  This  is  affirmed  by  credible  writers  as  no  fable; 
but  an  undoubted  truth.-^FoLLER's  Hoi^  State,  lib.  iji.  c.  l^,  p.  20, 


JMtOTKS  ASO  fM}pP9»  HI 

md  the  eoan^r  parts  sire  reucl^red  soluble ;  im»  you  1q09  the 
good  and  get  the  bad. 
SouFS  will  geaerally  tfike  from  TTiree  to  Six  hours. 
Prepare  your  Broths  and  Soi^pb  th^  Evening  btfcre  you 
want  them*  This  will  give  you  more  time  to  attend  to  th^ 
lest  of  your  Dinner  the  next  day ; — and  when  the  Soup  is 
cpld,  the  Fat  may  he  much  more  easily  and  completely  re-r 
moved  from  the  surface  of  it ; — when  you  decant  it,  take  care 
uot  to  disturb  the  8ettlin°:s  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  which 
are  so  fine,  that  they  will  eticape  through  a  Sieve,  or  even 
tbrou^  a  Tammis,  which  is  the  best  strainer, —the  Soups 
appear  smoother  and  finer, — and  it  is  much  easier  cleaned  than 
any  sieve.  If  you  strain  it  while  it  is  Hot^  pass  it  through 
a  clean  Tammis  or  Napkin,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water ; 
the  coldness  of  this  will  coa^ate  the  Fat,  and  only  suffer  the 
pure  Broth  to  pass  through. 

The  full  flavour  of  the  In^r^dienti  can  only  be  extracted  by 
very  long  and  slow  simmenng; — during  which,  take  care  to 
prevent  Evaporation  by  covering  the  Pot  as  close  qs  possible ; 
-Hhe  best  Stewpot  is  a  Digester, 

Clear  Soups^  must  be  perfectly  transparent, — Thickened 
Soups,  about  the  consisteiiice  of  rich  Cream,  and — remember 
^i  Thickened  ^ups  require  nearly  double  the  quantity  of 
^eastming.  The  Piqtiance  of  Spice,  ^c.  is  as  much  blunted 
hj  the  Flour  and  Butter,  as  the  Spirit  of  Rum  is  by  the  addi- 
tioi)  of  Sugar  and  x\cid-<«^o  they  are  less  salubrious,  without 
beip^  more  savoury — ^from  the  additional  quantity  of  Spice,  &c. 
thn  IS  smuggled  into  the  Stomach. 

To  THICKEN  AND   Giy^  BoDY   TO  SoUPS  AND  SaITCES, 

the  following  materials  are  used^-^thisy  must  be  gradually 
mixed  with  the  Soup,  till  thoroughly  incorporated  with  it ; 
^i  it  should  have,  at  least,  half  an  hour's  gentle  simmering 
^ter :  if  it  is  at  all  lumpy,  pass  it  through  a  Tammis  or  a  fiQe 
Sieve. — Bread  rasping8,-p*-Bread, — Isinglass, — Potatoe  mucil- 
age, (Np,  448)  fat  skimmings  and  Flour  see  (No.  248)—K)r 
Flour  and  Butter— or  Flour;  Barley,  see  (No.  !204),  Rice,  or 
Oatmeal  and  Water  rubbed  well  together,  see  (No.  257),  in 
which  this  subject  is  fully  explained. 
To  give  that  Glviinous  quaUty  so  much  admired  in  Mock 


! 


1 12  BROTHS  AND  SOUP^. 

Turtle,  s?e  (No.  198),  and  note  under  (No..  247),  (No.  252^  i 
andN.B.  to  {No.481.) 

•  To  their  very  rich  Gravies,  &c.  the  French  add  the  white 
meat  of  Partridges,  Pigeons,  or  Fowls,  pounded  to  a  pulp,  and 
rubbed  through  a  sieve ; — a  piece  of  Beef,  which  has  been 
boiled  to  make  Broth,  pounded  in  the  like  manner,  with  a 
bit  of  butter  andflour,-— see  Obs.  to  (No.  485*)  and  (No.  503), 
— and  gradually  incorporated  with  the  Gravy  or  Soup,  will 
be  found  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  these  more  expensive 
articles. 

Meat  from  which  Broth  has  been  made,  (No.  1 85*)  and 
(No.  252),  and  all  its  juice  has  been  extracted,  is  then  excel- 
lently well  prepared  for  potting,  see  (No.  503), — and  is 
quite  as  good,  or  better  than  that  which  has  been  baked  till 
it  is  dry;*  indeed  if  it  be  pounded,  and  seasoned  in  the  usual 
manner,  it  will  be  an  elegant  and  savoury  LitncAecm,— or 
Supper, — ^and  costs  nothing  but  the  trouble  of  preparing  it, 
which  is  very  little,  and  a  Relish  is  procured,  for  Sandwiches, 
&c.  (No.  504) — of  what  heretofore  has  been,  by  the  poorest 
Housekeeper,  considered  the  perquisite  of  the  Cat. 

Keep  some  spare  Broth,  lest  your  Soup  liquor  waste  in  boil- 
ing, and  get  too  thick,  and  for  Gravy  for  your  Made  Dishes, 
— variDus  Sauces,  &c.  for  many  of  which  it  is  a  much  better 
basis  than  Melted  Butter. 

The  Soup  of  Mock  Turtle,  and  the  other  thickened 
Soups  (No.  247),  will  supply  you  with  a  thick  Gravy  Sauce 
for  Poultry — Fish — Ragouts,  &c. ;  and  by  a  little  manage- 
ment of  this  sort,  you  may  generally  contrive  to  have  plenty 
of  Good  Gravies  and  Good  Sauces  with  very  little  trouble  or 
expense.     Spe  also  Portable  Soup,  (No.  252.) 

If  Soup  is  loo  thin  or  too  weak, — take  off  the  cover  of  your 
fK>up-pot,  and  let  it  boil  till  some  of  the  watery  part  of  it  has 
evaporated, — or  else,  add  some  of  the  Thickening  materials 
we  have  before  mentioned ;  and  have  at  hand  some  plain 
Browning:  see  (No.  322),  and  the  Obs.  thereon.  This 
simple  preparation  is  much  better  than  any  of  the  compounds 


*  If  the  Gravy  be  not  completely  drained  from  it,  the  article  potted 
will  very  soon  turn  sour. 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  113 

bearing  that  name,  as  it  colours  Sauce  or  Soup,  without  much 
interfering  with  its  flavour,  and  is  a  much  better  way  of  Co- 
lourii^  them  than  burning  the  surface  of  the  Meat. 

When  Soups  and  Gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day,  in  Hot 
weather,  they  should  be  warmed  up  every  day,  and  put  into 
fresh  scalded  tureens,  or  pans,  and  placed  in  a  cool  cellar ; — 
in  Temperate  weather  every  other  day  may  be  enoughs 

We  hope  we  have  now  put  the  common  Cook  into  posses- 
sion of  the  whole  arcana  of  Soup-making, — without  much 
trouble  to  herself,  or  expense  to  her  employers  ; — ^it  need  not 
be  said,  in  future,  that  an  Englishman  only  knows  how  to 
make  Soup  in  his  Stomach,  by  swilling  down  a  large  quantity 
pf  Ale,  or  Porter,  to  quench  the  thirst  occasioned  by  the  meat 
he  eals: — ^John  Bull  may  now  make  his  Soup  "  secundum 
oriem^^^  and  save  his  principal  viscera  a  great  deal  of 
trouble. 

*»*  In  the  following  Receipts  we  have  directed  the  Spices* 
and  Flavouring  to  be  added  at  the  usual  time  ;-'^but  it  would 
greatly  diminish  the  expense^  and  improve  the  Soups,  if  the 
»^gfnts  employed  to  give  them  a  Zest,  were  not  put  in  above 
fifteen  minutes  before  the  finish, — and  half  the  quantity  of 
spice,  ^e.  would  do, — A  strcmg  Heat  soon  dissipates  the 
spirit  of  the  Wine,  and  evaporates  the  aroma  andjlavourof 
the  Spices  and  Herbs,  which  are  volatile  in  the  heat  of  Boil- 
ing water. 

In  ordering  the  proportions  of  meat, — butter, — ^wine, 
&c. — the  proper  quantity  is  set  down,  and  less  will  not  do : 
— we  have  carried  Economy  quite  as  for  as  possible  without 
^^  spoiling  the  Broth  for  a  halfpenny  worth  of  salt, ^* 

I  conclude  these  remarks,  with  observing,  that  some  per- 
sons imagine  that  Soup  tends  to  relax  the  Stomach — so  far 
from  being  prejudicial,  we  consider  the  moderate  use  of  such 
liquid  nourishment  to  be  highly  salutary. — Does  not  our  food 
and  drink,  even  though  cold,  become  in  a  few  minutes  a 
kind  of  warm  Soup  in  the  stomach  ? — and,  therefore.  Soup, 
if  not  eaten  too  hot,  or  in  too  great  a  quantity,  and  of  proper 
quality,  is  attended  with  great  advantages,  especially  to  those 
who  drink  but  little. 

*  These  Economists  recommend  to  be  pounded  ;  they  certainly  go 
fcrther,  as  they  call  it ;— but  we  think  they  go  too  far,  for  tb«y  go 
^biOQgfa  the  sieve,  and  make  the  soup  grouty. 


114  BRO'fHS  ANP  SOUPS. 

Warm  Fluids  in  the  form  of  Soup,  unite  widi  our  juiiees 

much  sooner,  and  better,  *tban  those  that  are  cc^dandraw; 

^on  this  account,  Rebtorativb  Soup  is  the  best  Food  for 

those  who  are  enfeebled  by  Disease  or  Dissipation,  and  for 

old  people,  whose  teeth  and  Digestive  organs  are  impaired. 

«  Half  subtiliz'd  to  Cbyle^tke  liquid  food 
Readied ob^ys  W  assimUatiiig  powers." 

After  catching  Cold, — ^in  Nervous  headaches,-— Cholics, 
Indigestions,  and  different  kinds  of  Cramp  and  Spasms  in 
the  Stomach, — warm  Broth  is  of  excellent  service. 

After  intemperate  feasting,  to  give  the  Stomach  a  holiday, 
for  a  day  or  two,  by  a  diet  on  Mutton  Broth,  (No.  564)  or 
{No.  672),  or  Vegetable  Soup  (No.  218),  &c  is  the  best 
way  to  restore  its  Tone.  See  6th  Edition  of  Hu  Art  of  In- 
vigorating  L\fe,  by  the  Author  of  this  work.  **  The  stretch- 
ing any  power  to  its  utmost  extent,  weakens  it.  If  the  Sto- 
mach be  every  day  obliged  to  do  as  much  as  it  can,  it  will 
every  day  be  able  to  do  hss.  A  wise  traveller  will  never 
force  his  horse  to  perform  as  much  as  he  can,  in  one  day, 
upon  a  long  journey.'' — Father  Fetjoo's  Rules,  p.  85. 

To  WARM  Soups,  &c.  (No.  485.) 

N.B.  With  the  portable  Soup,  (No.  252),  a  pint  of 
Broth  may  be  made  in  five  minutes,  for  Three  Pence. 


RUDIMENTS  OF  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  VIM. 

GRAVIES  AND  SAIXXS. 


'*  The  Spirit  of  each  dish,  and  Zbst  of  all. 
Is  what  inj^enious  Cooks  the  Relish  call ; 
For  though  the  market  sends  in  loads  of  food, 
They  ail  are  tasteless,  till  that  makes  them  icood/' 

KiMO's  Art  tf  Cookery* 


**  Ex  parvis^  componere  »a^fna." 

It  is  of  as  much  importance  that  the  Cook  should  know 
bow  to  make  a  boat  of  good  Giavy  for  her  Poultry^  &c.  aa 
that  it  should  be  sent  up  of  proper  complexion,  and  nicely 
frothed. 

In  this  Chapter  we  shall  endeavour  to  introduce  to  lier  all 
the  Materials  *  which  give  flavour  in  iS5arucc,  which  is  the 
Essence  ofSoup^  and  intended  to  contain  more  relish  in  a 
Tech-spoonful^  than  the  former  does  in  a  Tahk-spoonfuL 

We  hope  to  deserve  as  much  praise  from  the  Economist^ 
—as  we  do  from  the  Boii  Vivant ;  as  we  have  taken  great 
pains  to  introduce  to  him  the  methods,  of  making  Substitutes 
for  those  ingredients,  which  are  always  expensive,  and 
often  not  to  'be  had  at  all.  Many  of  these  cheap  articles 
ve  as  savoury  and  as  salutary  as  the  dearer  ones,  and  those 
who  have  large  feroilies,  and  limited  incomes,  will,  no 
doubt,  be  glad  to  avail  therjnselves  of  theqj. 

The  reader  may  rest  assured, — ^that  whether  he  consults 
this  Book  to  diminish  the  expense,  or  increase  the  pleasures 
of  Hospitality, — he  will  find  all  the  information  that  was  to 

*  See,  in  pages  103  bnd  104,  A  Cataloode  of  tub  Inorsdients 
now  used  in  Soups,  Sauces,  (fro. 


116  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES, 

be  obtained  up  to  1826  communicated  in  the  most  unreserved 
and  intelligible  manner. 

A  great  deal  pf  the  Elegance  of  Cookery,  depends  upon 
the  Accompaniments  to  each  dish  being  appropriate,  and 
well  adapted  to  it. 

We  can  assure  our  readers,  no  attention  has  been  wanting 
on  our  part  to  render  this  department  of  the  work  worthy 
their  perusal : — each  Receipt  is  the  faithful  narrative  of  ac- 
tual and  repeated  experiments,  and  has  received  the  most  de- 
liberate consideration  before  it  was  here  presented  to  them. 
It  is  given  in  the  most  circumstantial  manner,  and  not  in 
the  technical  and  mysterious  langue^e  former  writers  on 
these  subjects  seem  to  have  preferred ;  by  which  their  direc- 
tions are  useless  and  unintelligible  to  all  tvho  have  not  regu- 
larly served  an  apprenticeship  at  the  Stove.  I 

Thus,  instead  of  accurately  enumerating  the  Quantities, 
and  explaining  the  process  of  each  Composition,  tfiey  order 
a  ladleful  of  Stocky  a  pint  of  Consomme,  and  a  spoonful  of 
CuUisy—Bs  if  a  Private  Family  Cook  had  always  at  hand  a 
soup-ketlle  full  of  Stocky  a  store  of  Consomme,  and  the 
larder  oi  Albion  .Houses  and  the  Spoons  ond  Pennyworths 
were  the  same  in  all  ages. 

It  will  be  to  very  littie  purpose  I  have  taken  so  much  pains 
to  teach  how  to  manage  Koasts  and  Boils,  if  a  Cook  cannot 
or  will  not  make  the  several  Sauces  that  are  usually  sent  up 
with  them. 

/The  most  homely  fare  may  be   made   relishing,  and  the 
oiost  excellent  and  independent,  improved  by  a  well  made 
Sauce  ;* — as  the  most  perfect  Picture  may,  by  being  well  var-     ,' 
nished.  ^ 

We  have,  therefore,  endeavoured  to  give  the  plainest  di- 


*  "  It  is  the  duty  of  a  good  Suuce,"  says  the  editor  of  the  Almanadk 
des  GourtnandSt  (vol.  v.  page  6,)  **  to  insiDuate  itself  all  round  and 
about  the  maxillary  glands,  and  imperceptibly  a^valien  into  activity 
each  ramification  of  the  Organs  of  Taste:  if  not  sufficietiUy  savour} , 
it  cannot  produce  tbii  eflect,  and  if  too  piquante,  it  will  par'tlyse,  in- 
stead of  exciting,  those  delicious  titillations  of  tongue,  and  vibrations  of 
Palate,  that  onl^  the  most  accomplished  Pbilosqphers  of  the  Mouth  can 
produce  on  the  liighly  educated  palates  of  thrice  happy  Grands  Gout" 
mands*''* 


GR.VVIES  AND  SAUCES.  UT* 

rections,  how  to  produce,  with  the  least  trouble  and  expense* 
possible — all  the  various  compositions  the  English  kitchen 
affords  for  the  amusement  of  honest  John  Bull,— and  hope 
to  present  such  a  wholesome  and  palatable  variety  as  will 
suit  all  tastes  and  all  pockets,  so  that  a  Cook  may  give  satis- 
saction  in  all  families :  the  more  combinations  of  this  sort 
she  is  acquainted  with,  the  better  she  will  comprehend  the 
management  of  every  one  of  them. 

We  have  rejected  some  Outlandish  FarragoeSf  from  a  con- 
viction they  were  by  no  means  adapted  to  an  English  palate, 
if  they  have  been  received  into  some  English  books,  for  the 
sake  of  swelling  the  volume,f  we  believe  they  will  never  be 
received  by  an  Englishman's  stomach,  unless  for  the  reason 
they  were  admitted  into  the  Cookery  book ;  i.  e,  because  he 
has  nothing  else  to  put  into  it. 

However  "  les  pompeuses  Bagatelles  de  la  Cuisine  MaS" 
quSe^*  may  tickle  the  fancy  of  demi-connoisseurs^  who,  leav- 

*  To  save  Time  add  Trouble  is  the  mofd;  valuable  fruirality: — and  if 
the  mistress  of  a  i'amily  \7ill  condescend  to  devote  a  little  time  to  the 
profitable  and  pleasant  employment  of  preparinor  some  of  the  Store 
Saucbs,  especially  Nos.  322,  402,  404,  413,  429,  433,  439,  454  ;> 
these,  both  Epicures  and  EcoDoroL«ts,  will  avail  themselves  of  the  ad- 
vantage now  given  them,  of  preparing  at  home. 

By  the  help  of  these,  many  Dishes  may  be  dressed  in  half  the  usual 
Time, — and  with  half  the  Trouble  and  Expense,— «nd  flavoured  and 
finished  with  much  more  certainty,  than  by  the  common  methods. 

A  small  portion  of  the  Time  whicb  young  Ladies  sacrifice  to  tortur- 
ing the  strings  of  their  Piano  Forte,  employed  in  obtaining  Domestic 
Accomplishments — might  not  make  them  worse  wives,  or  less  agree- 
able Companions  to  their  Husbands.  This  was  the  opinion  200  yeais 
ago. 

«  To  speak  then  of  the  Knowledge  which  belong  unto  our  British 
Housewife — I  hold  the  most  principal,  to  be  a  perfect  skill  in  Cookery: 
Shee  that  is  utterly  ignorant  therein,  may  not,  by  the  Lawes  of  Mrict 
u-stice,  challenge  the  freedom  of  Marriage,  because  indeede  Shee  can 
perform  but  half  her  vow — Shee  may  love  and  obey,  but  she  cannot 
cherish  and  keepe  her  Husband.'*— G.  Ma  rkham's  English  Hottseunfey 
4to.  16d7,p.  62. 

We  hope  our  fair  Readers  will  forgive  us,  for  telliBo:  them,  that  Eco- 
nomy in  a  Wife,— is  the  most  certain  Charm  to  ensure  the  Affection  and 
Industry  of  a  Husband, 
t  Were  these  Books  reduced  to  their  Quintessence,  many  a  bulky 
,    author  would  make  his  appearance  in  a  Penny  Paper » — See  Speefa^ 
'    tor,  No.  124.   Obs.  on  the  Art  of  Book-making,  <fec. 


118  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

inor  the  substance  to  pursue  the  shadpwr,  prefer  wonderfol 
and  whimsical  metamorphoses,  and  things  extravagantly  ez* 
pensive,  to  tljose  which  are  intrinsically  excellent, — in  whose 
mouth  Mutton  can  hardly  hope  for  a  welcome,  unless  ac- 
companied by  Fenison  Sauce j  or  a  Rabbit  any  chance  for 
a  race  down  the  Red  Lane,  without  assuming  the  form  of  ^ 
Frog  or  a  ^ider ;— or  Pork,  without  being  either  *^  Goosi' 
fied'^  or  **  Lamhifiedy^  (see  No.  51),  and  Game  and  Poul- 
try in  the  shape  of  Crawfish  or  Hedgehogs. 

These  Travesties  rather  show  the  patience  than  the  science 
of  the  Cook, — ^and  the  bad  taste  of  those  who  prefer  such 
Baby-tricks  *  to  old  English  nourishing  and  substantial  plain 
Cookery. 

I  could  have  made  this  the  biggest  Bookf  with  half  the 
trouble  it  has  taken  me  to  make  it  the  best ;— -Concentratiofi 
and  Perspicuity  have  been  my  aim. 

As  much  pains  have  been  taken  in  describing,  in  the  most 
intelligible  manner,  how  to  make,  in  the  easiest,  most  agree- 
able, and  economical  way,  those  Common  SaiLces  that  daily 
contribttte  to  the  comfort  of  the  Middle  ranks  of  Society ;  as, 
in  directing  the  preparation  of  those  extravagant  and  elabo- 
rate double  relishes,  the  most  ingenious  and  accomplished 
"  Officers  of  the  Mouth  "  have  invented  for  the  amusement 
of  profound  Palaticians,  and  thorough-bred  Grands  (rottr- 
mands  of  the  first  magnitude : — ^these  we  have  so  reduced  the 
trouble  and  expense  of  making,  as  to  bring  them  within  the 
reach  of  moderate  fortunes ;  still  preserving  all  that  is  vain- 
able  of  their  taste  and  qualities ;  so  ordering  them,  that  they 
may  delight  the  Palate,  without  disordering  the  Stomach ;  by 
leaving  out  those  inflammatory  ingredients  which  are  only  fit 
for  an  *'  iron  throat,  and  adamantine  bowels,"  and  those 
costly  materiab,  which  no  rational  being  would  destroy,  for 
the  viranton  purpose  of  merely  giving  a  fine  name  to  the  com- 

*  **  More  for  Show  and  Sport  than  for  Belly  Timbsr,  and  about 
which  the  Good  Huswife  never  troables  her  head." — See  Joaw  Crom- 
wBifL's  Kitchen,  lOmo.  1664,  p.  32. 

t  I  in  tend  here  to  ofler  to  all  such  as  please  to  peruse  it,  "a  plait 
Boos,  vhich  is  all  and  every  part  of  it  Book,  aiid  nothing  Imt  solid 
Book  from  beginning  to  end.'' — Vide  Preface  to  Dr.  Fuller's  «/i«lr9- 
duciia  ad  Prudentiam,'*  London,  12ino.  1721. 


GRAVnS  AND  SAUCES.  119 

positiois  they  enter  into,  to  whose  excellence  they  contri- 
bate  nothing  else ; — for  instance,  consuming  Two  Partrids:es 
to  make  sauce  for  One  ;-^half  a  pint  of  Game  Gravy  (No. 
329,)  will  be  infinitely  more  acceptable  to  the  unsophisti- 
cated appetite  of  Englishmen,  for  whose  proper  and  rational 
recreation  we  sat  down  to  compose  these  Receijpts— whose 
approbation,  we  have  done  our  utmost  to  deserve,  by  devot<* 
idg  much  ^me  to  the  business  of  the  Kitchen ;  and  by  re- 
peating the  various  processes  that  we  thought  admitted  of  the 
smallest  im  provement. 

We  shall  be  fully  gratified :  if  our  Book  is  not  bought  up 
with  quite  so  much  avidity  by  those  high  bred  Epicures, 
who  are  unhappily  so  much  more  nice  than  wise,  that  they 
cannot  eat  any  thing  dressed  by  an  English  Cook,— and  vote 
it  barbarously  unrehned  and  intolerably  ungenteel,  to  endure 
the  sia;ht  of  the  best  bill  of  fare  that  can  be  contrived,  if 
written  in  the  vulgar  tongue  of  Qld  England.* 

Let  your  Sauces  each  display  a  decided  character ;  send 
up  your  PLAIN  Sauces  f  Oyster ^  Lobster,  Sfc.J  as  pure  as 
possible  ;~</i^  should  only  teisteofthe  materials  from  whidi 
tkeif  take  their  name. 

The  imagination  of  roost  Cooks,  is  so  incessantly  on  the 
hoat  for  a  Relish, — that  they  soem  to  think,  they  camnot 
make  sauce  sufficiently  savoury,  without  putting  into  it 
every  thing  that  ever  was  eaten ; — ^and  supposing  every 
addition  must  be  an  improvement,  they  frequently  over- 
po'wer  the  natural  flavour  of  their  plain  Sauces,  by  over- 
loading them-  with  salt  and  spices,  &c. : — but,  remember, 
these  will  be  deteriorated  by  any  addition,  save  only  just  salt 
enough  to  awaken  the  Palate — the  Lover  of  "  Fiquanee'^ 


*  Though  sdTrte  of  thft5!e  p'^ople  seem  at  last  to  have  found  out, — that 
,  an  EngUsbman's  liead  may  be  as  fall  of  gravy  as  a  Frenchman's,— >aDd 
willing  to  give  the  preference  to  native  talent,  retain  an  English  man 
or  woman  as  prime  minister  of  their  kitch^ ;  still  they  teem  ashamed 
toooofets  it,hnd  commonly  insist  as  a  "sine  quA  non"  that  their 
K|^fa  domestics-  should  understand  the  ^*  parlez-vout ;*'  and  not- 
wittstamiinr  they  are  perfectly  initiated  in  all  the  minutie  of  the  Phi- 
'^^y  of  ue  mouth,  consider  them  ineligible,  i/they  cannot  tcribblt 
«  ail  \»f  fate  in  pretty  $ood  bad  Frtnch, 


120  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

and  Compound  Flayours,  may  have  recourse  to  **  iAc  Maga* 
zine  of  Taste,''  (No.  463.) 

On  the  contrary,  of  Compound  Sauces: — the  ingre- 
dients should  be  so  nicely  proportioned,  that  no  one  be  pre-' 
dominant ;— so  that,  from  the  equal  union  of  the  combined 
flavours,  such  a  fine  mellow  mixture  is  produced, ,  whose 
very  novelty  cannot  fail  of  being  acceptable  to  the  persevering 
Gourmand,  if  it  has  not  pretensions  to  a  permanent  place  at 
his  table. 

An  ingenious  Cook  will  form  as  endless  a  variety  of  these 
compositions  as  a  Musician  with  his  seven*  notes,— or  a 
Painter  with  his  colours ; — ^no  part  of  her  business  offers  so 
fair  and  frequent  an  opportunity  to  display  her  abilities — 
Sp'icfs,  Herbs,  &c.  are  often  very  absurdly  and  injudi- 
ciously jumbled  together. 

Why  have  Clove  and  Allspice,— or  Mace  and  Nutmeg  in 
the  same  sauce, — or  Marjoram,  Thyme,  and  Savory:— or 
Onions,  Leeks,  Eshallots,  and  Garlick : — one  will  very  well 
supply  the  place  of  the  other,  and  the  frugal  Cook  may  save 
something  considerable  by  attending  to  this,  to  the  advantage 
of .  her  employers,  and  her  own  time  and  trouble. — ^You 
might  as  well,  to  make  Soup,  order  one  quart  of  water  from 
the  Thames,  another  from  the  JVcw  River,  a  third  from 
Hampslead,  and  a  fourth  from  Chelsea,  with  a  certain  por- 
tion of  Spring  and  Rain  Water-. 

In  many  of  our  Receipts,  we  have  fallefi  in  with  the 
fashion  of  ordering  a  mixture  of  Spices,  &c.,  which  the 
above  hint  will  enable  the  culinary  student  to  correct. 

"  Pharmacy  is  now  much  more  simple, — Cookery 
may  be  made  so  too.  A  Prescription  which  is  now  com- 
pouxfeded  with  five  ingredients,  had  formerly  fifty  in  it — 
people  begin  to  understand,  that  the  Materia  Medica  is  little 
more  than  a  collection  of  Evacuantsand  Stimuli.'' — BosweWs 
Life  of  Johnson, 


*  The  principal  Agents  now  employed  to  flavour  Soups  and  Saocef  9 
are  Mushrooms  (No.  439),  Onions  (No.  420),  Anchovy  (No.  433), 
Lemon  Joicb  and  Pbel,  or  Vinegar,  Wine,  (especially  good 
'CL4RBT),  SwBET  Herbs,  and  Savoury  Spices,— Nos.  420,  21,22, 
and  457,  69,  60. 


1 


<3RAVIBS  AND  SATiCBS.  121 

The  Ragouts  of  the  last  Century  had  infinitely  more 
ine^redients  than  we  use  now — ^the  praise  gWen  to  WiU. 
Rabisha  for  bis  Cookery,  12ino.  1673,  is 

."  To  fry  and  fricasee,  his  way's  most  neat, 
For  be  compouDds  a  thousand  sorts  of  meat.'* 

To  become  a  perfect  Mistress  of  the  art  of  cleverly  ex- 
tracting and  combining  Flavours,  *  besides  the  gift  of  a.  good 
Taste,  requires  all  the  experience  and  skill  of  the  most  ac- 
complished Professor,  and  especially, — an  intimate  acquaint- 
ance with  the  Palate  she  is  working  for.  .       . 
Send  your  Sauces  to  table  as  Hot  as  possible. 
Nothing  need  be  more  unsightly,  than  the  Surface  of  a 
Sauce  in  a  frozen  state,  or  garnished  with  grease  on  the 
top ; — the  best  way  to  get  rid  of  this,  is  to  pass  it  through 
a  Tammis  or  Napkin  previously  soaked  in  cold  water;  the 
coldness  of  the  napkin    will  coagulate  the  Fat,  and  only 
suffer  ihe  pure  gravy  to  pass  through; — if  any  paitioks 
of  Fat  remain^  take  them  off  by  applying  filtering  paper^  aft 
blotting  paper  is  applied  to  Writing. 

Let  your  Sauces  boil  up  after  you  put  in  Wine,  Anchovy, 
or  Thickening,  that  their  flavours  may  be  well  blended 
with  the  other  ingredients  f:  and  keep  in  mind,  that  the 
*<  chef-d'cBuvre**  of  Cookery, — is  to  entertain  the. Mouth 
without  offending  the  Stomach. 

N.  B.  Although  I  have  endeavoured  to  give  the  particular 
quantity  of  each  ingredient  used  in  the  following  Sauces, 
as  they  are  g^^nerally  made, — ^still  the  Cook's  judgment 
must  direct  her  to  lessen  or  increase  either  of  the  mgre- 
dients,  according  to  the  taste  of  those  she  works  for,  and 
will  always  be  on  the  alert  to  ascertain  what  are  the  fevourite 
Accompaniments  desired  with  each  dish.  See  Advice  to 
Cooks,  page  48. 

*  If  your  palate  becomes  dull  by  repeatedly  tasting,  the  best  way  to 
refresh  it,  is  to  wash  your  month  well  with  millc. 

t  Before  you  put  Kggs  or  Cream  into  a  Sauce,  have  all  your  other 
ii^redieuts  well  boiled,  and  the  sauce  or  soup  of  proper  tliickness,— 
because  neither  eji^gs  nor  cream  will  contribute  to  thiclcen  it.— After 
you  have  put  them  in,  do  not  set  the  stewpan  on  the  stove  again,-^ut 
kold  it  over  the  fire,  aa  1  shake  it  round  one  way  till  the  sauce  is  ready.  ^ 

G 


122  OBAVIBS  AND  SAUCES. 

When  yoa  open  a  bottle  of  Catsup^  (No.  43d)  Essence  qf 
Anchovy 9  (No!  433) »  &c  throw  away  the  old  cork,  and  atop 
it  closely  with  a  new  cork  that  will  fit  it  very  tight.    Use 
only  the  best  superfine  Velvet  taper  corks. 

Economy  in  Corks  is  extremely  unwise, — in  order  to  save 
a  mere  trifle,  in  the  price  of  the  cork,  you  run  the  risk  of 
losine  the  vsduable  article  it  is  intended  to  preserve. 

It  IS  a  Vulgcar  Error y  that  a  bottle  must  be  well  stopped, 
when  the  cork  is  forced  down  even  with  the  mouth  of  it,  it 
13  rather  a  sign  that  the  Cork  is  too  small,  and  it  should  be 
re-drawn  and  a  larger  one  put  in. 

TO   MAKE  BOTTLE  CEHSMT. 

Half  a  pound  of  black  resin,  same  quantity  of  red  seaKng 
wax,  quarter  oz.  bee's  wax,  melted  in  an  earthen  or  iron  pot; 
.wben  it  froths  up,  before  all  is  melted  and  likely  to  boti 
over,  stir  it  with  a  tallow  candle,  which  will  settle  the  froth 
till  all  is  melted  and  fit  for  use.  Red  wax,  lOd.  per  lb. 
may  be  bought  at  Mr.  Dew's,  Blackmore  Street,  Clare 
Market. 

N.  B.  This  cement  is  of  very  great  use  in  preserving 
things  that  you  wish  to  keep  a  long  time,  which  without 
its  help  would  soon  spoil,  from  the  clumsy  and  ineffectual 
manner  the  Bottles  are  corked. 


RUDIMENTS  OF   COOKERY. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

MADE  DISHES. 

Undee  this  general  head  we  range  our  Receipts  for 
Hashes, — Stews, — and  RAcotrs,*  &c.;  of  these  there 
ire  a  great  mnltitnde,  affording  the  ingenious  Cook  an  ia- 
exhaustible  store  of  variety:— in  the  French  kitchen  they, 
count  upwards  of  600,  and  are  daily  inventing  new  on^s. 

We  have  very  few  ^neral  observations  to  make,  s^ter 
whajt  we  haye  already  said  in  the  two  preceding  Chapters  on; 
— Sauces^ — SoupSt  ^c,  which  apply  to  the  present  chapter, 
as  they  form  the  principal  part  of  the  accompaniment  of 
most  of  these  dishes.  In  fact,  Made  Dishes  are  nothing 
more  than  Meat, — ^Poultry  (No.  530,)  or  Fish  (No.  14^ 
158,  or  164,)  stewed  very  gently  till  they  are  tender,  with  a 
thickened  Sauce  poured  over  them. 

Be  careful  to  trim  off  all  the  Skin^  Gristle,  Sfc.  that  will 
not  be  eateUyand  shape  nandsomely,  atidofeven  thickness,  the 
various  articles  which  compose  your  Made  Dishesy-^lAs  is 
sadly  neglected  by  common  Cooks, — only  Stew  them  tUl 
they  are  just  tender,  and  do  not  do  them  to  rags. — ^Therefore, 
tokat  you  prepare  the  Day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  do  not  do 
quite  enough  the  first  day. 

We  have  given  Receipts  for  the  most  easy  and  simple  way 
to  make  Hashes,  &c«  Those  who  are  well  skilled  m  Culi- 
nary arts,  can  dress  up  things  in  this  way,  so  as  to  be  as 

*  Sauce  for  Ragouts,  Ac,  should  be  thickened  till  it  i«  of  the  eoo- 
sisteoce  of  good  rich  Cream,  that  it  may  adhere  to  whatever  it  is  poured 
Offer.  When  you  have  a  large  dinner  to  dress,  keep  ready  mixed  some 
fine  sifted  Flour  and  water  well  nibbed  together  till  quite  smooth,  and 
about  as  thick  as  Butter.    See  (No.  2ST.) 

O  2 


124 


MADE  DISHES. 


agreeable  as  they  were  the  first  time  they  were  cooked ; — but 
Hashing  is  a  very  bad  mode  of  Cookery^  if  Meat  has  been 
done  enough  the  first  time  it  is  dressed, — a  second  dressing 
will  divest  it  of  all  its  nutritive  juices,  and  if  it  can  be  smug« 
gled  into  the  sipmach  by  bribing  the  Palate  with  piquanU 
Sauce,  it  is  at  the  hazard  of  an  Indigestion,  &c. 

I  promise  those  who  do  me  the  honour  to  put  my  Receipts 
into  practice,  that  they  will  find  that  the  most  nutritious  ^d 
truly  elegant  dishes,  are  neither  the  most  difficult  to  dress, 
the  most  expensive,  or  the  most  indigestible ; — ^in  those  com- 
positions. Experience  will  go  far  to  diminish  Expense; — 
Meat  that  is  too  old  or  too  tough  for  Roasting f  ^c,  may  by 
gentle  Stewing  be  rendered  savoury  and  tender'^i^  some  of 
our  Receipts  do  differ  a  little  from  those  in  former  Cookery 
Books,  let  it  be  remembered  we  have  advanced  nothing  in 
this  work  that  has  not  been  tried,  aiid  experience  has  proved 
correct. 

N.B.  See  (No.  483]  an  Ingenious  and  Economical  System 
of  French  Cookery,  written  at  the  recjuest  of  the  Editor 
by  ian  accomplished  English  Lady^  which  will  teach  you 
how  to  supply  your  table  with  elegant  little  Made  Dishes^ 
&c.  at  as  little  expeiux  as  Plain  Cookery. 


*  >  1 


i.    . 


THB 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 


X  B,  Read  th4  Markbtiko  Tablbs  4U  the  end  of  the  Volume, 


BOILING. 

c      •  * 

READ  THE    FIRST    CHAPTER    OF  THE    RUDIMENTS  OP 

COOKERV»  '*■ 

Leg  of  3lutton.— (No.  1.) 

Cut  off  the  SHank  Bone,  and  trim  the  Knuckle, — put  it 
into  lukewarm  water  for  ten  minutes,  wash  it  clean,  cover  it 
with  cold  water^  and  let  it  simmer  very  yentlyf  and  skim  it 
carefully. — ^A  Leg  of  nine  pounds  will  take  two  and  a  half  or 
three  hours,  if  you  like  it  thoroughly  <lone»  especially  in  fery 
Cold  weather. 

For  the  Accompaniments,  see  the  following  Receipt 

N.  B.  The  Tit~bits  with  an  Epicure j  are  the  "  Knuckle,^! 
the  kernel,  called  the  ^^Pope's^eye^^^  and  the,**  GentUmaiCs^^ 
or  "  Cramp  Bone,''*  or,  as  it  is  called  in  Kent,  the  "Camt 
Caw,"— four  of'  these,  and  a  Bounder,  furnish  the  little 
AS  asters  and  Mistresses  of  Kent  with  their  most  favourite  set 
of  playthings.  ... 

A  Leg  of  Mutton  stewed  very  slowly^  as  we  have  directed 
the  Beef  to  be  (No.  493),  will  be  as  agreeable  to  an  English 
appetite  as  the  &mous  **Gtgot*  de  sept  Aeure^*' of  the 
French  Kitchen  is  to  a  Parisian  ps^late.    . 

When  Mutton  is  very  Large,  you  may  divide  it,  and 
roast  the  FiUetf  i.  e.  the  large  «nd,  and  boil  the  Knuckle  end^ 
— you  may  also  cut  some  £ne  Outlets  off  the  thick  end  of  the 
Leg,— orwi  so  hdve  Two  or  Three  good  Hot  Dinners.     See 

.      ■      i    i         -•  '  ■       ^  ! — ■■    ■     I     '.     .    - 

*  The  Gigot  is  the  lej;  M^itb  part  of  the  loiiu 


136  BOILING. 

Mrs.  Makeitdo*s  I'eceipt  how  to  make  a  Leg  of  Mutton 
last  a  week,  in  *^  The  Housekeeper's  Ledger,*'  printed  for 
Wliittaker,  Ave-Maria  Lane. 

7%e  Liqrwr  the  Mutton  is  boiled  in  you  may  convert  into 
Good  Soup  in  Fine  r^iiMteSy  see  N.B.  (No.  218,)  and 
Scotch  Barley  Broth,  (No.  204.)-^Thiis  managed,  a  Leg  of 
Mutton  is  a  most  Economical  Joint. 

Neck  6f  Mutton. — (No.  2.) 

Put  four  or  five  pounds  of  the  best  end  of  a  Neck,  (that 
has  been  kept  a  few  days)  into  as  much  cold  soft  water  as 
will  cover  it,  and  about  two  inches  over,  let  it  simmer  very 
slowly  for  two  hours ; — it  will  look  most  delicate  if  jfOQ  do 
not  take  off  the  Skin  till  H  has  been  boiled. 

jPor  5auce,  that  elegant  and  innocent  relish.  Parsley  and 
Butter  (No.  261),  or  Eshallot  (No.  294  or  5),  or  Caper  sauce 
(No.  274),  Mock  Caper  sauce  (No.  275),  and  Onion  sa|ice 
(No.  296),  Turnips  (No.  130),  or  Spinage  (No.  121),  ar^ 
the  usual  Accompanrments  to  Boiled  Mutton. 

Lamb.»-(No.  3.) 

A  Leg  (^five  pounds  should  simmer  very  gently  ior  aBout 
Two  Ho^rs,  from  the  time  it  is  put  on,  in  cold  water. — ^After 
the  general  rules  for  boiling,  in  the  first  Chapter  of  the  Ru- 
diments of  Cookery,  we  have  nothing  to  add,  only  tQ 
send  up  with  it,  Spinage  (No.  122),  Brocoli  (No.  126), 
Cauliflower  (No.  125),  &c.,  and  for  Sauce  (No.  261). 

Veau— (No.  4.) 

This  is  expected  to  come  to  table  lookit^  delicately 
clean,  and  it  is  so  easily  discolouiied,  that  you  must  be 
carefbl  to  have  clean  wftt^r,  a  clean  vessel,  and  constantly 
catch  the  scum  as  soon  and  as  long  as  it  rises,  and  attend  to 
the  directicms  before  given  in  the  first  Ch^ter  of  the  Rudi- 
loiNrs  of  CoOJKEHV.  Send  tip  Bacon  (No.  13),  Fried  Sau- 
sages (No.  87),  or  Pfckled  Potk,  Greens,  (No.  118,  and  fol- 
lowing Nos.)  and  Parsley  and  Butter  (No.  261),  Onion 
Sauce  No.  298). 

N.  B.  For  Receipts  to  Cook  Veal,  see  from  (No. 
512)  to  (No.  521). 


Bfee/BoHiY/u— (No.  5.) 

la  plain  English,  is  understood  to  mean  Boiled  Beef;  but 
its  culinary  acceptation,  in  the  French  Kitchen,  is  fresh  beef 
dressed  without  boiling,  and  only  very  gently  simmered  by  H 
slow  fire. 

English  Cooks  have  seldom  any  notion,  that  good  Soup 
can  be  made  without  destroying  a  great  deal  of  MfiAT  ;* 
however,  by  a  judicious  regulation  of  the  Fire,  and  a  vigilant 
attendance  on  the  Soup  kettle,  this  may  be  accomplished — 
you  shall  have  a  tureen  of  such  Soup  as  will  satisfy  the  most 
fastidious  Palate,  and  the  Meat  make  its  appearance  at  table, 
at  the  same  time,  in  possession  of  a  full  portion  of  nutritious 
succulence. 

This  requires  nothing  more  than  to  Stew  the  meat  very 
thttJy^  fimtead  of  keeping  the  pot  boiling  a  gallops  as  oonu 
mon  Cooks  too  commonly  do  J — and  to  take  it  up  as  soon  as 
it  M  done  enough.  See  "  Soup  and  BouiU^^  (No.  238,) 
«  ^hin  of  Beef  Stewed^'  (No.  493,)  "  Scotch  Barley  Broth'* 
(No*  204).  . 

Meat  cooked  in  this  manr^r,  affords  much  more  nourish- 
inent  than  it  does  dressed  in  the  common  way,  is  easy  of 

digestion  in  proportion  as  it  is  tender,  and  an  invigorating 

■ 

*  *<  Ce  nVst  ]ias  la  quantity  de  viande  qui  fait  seule  le  bon  bouilloo, 
mais  la  manicre  doiit  le  pot-au-feu  est  conduit.  Qu*est-oe  que  le  bou- 
iDoD?  Une  d^ooetion  de  viande  co&tenaat  de  I'extractif  animal  qui  la 
colore,  (cat  eztractif,  nomin6  par  le  c^ldbre  Thenard  osmazome,  con- 
tieoi  aiiisi  (oute  la  panie  savoareuse  de  la  viaode),  du  sel,  maia  sonout 
ie  la  gelatine.  Pour  que  la  viande  cede  a  I'eau  cesprincipes  11  faut 
quecene.ci  la  p^n^tre  avec  une  temperature  gradu^,  dilate  les  fibres 
Bosculairea,  et  dissolve  la  gelatine  qui  y  est  interpose :  mais  dans  cea 
m^mes  muscles  11  y  a  aussi  de  rtdbumine  (matiere  analogue  au  blanc 
d'au^  et  qui  forme  Tecume  du  pot).  Cette  albumine  se  coagule,  et  se 
iiarcit  &  la  temperature  de  quatie-vingt  degr€s.  Si  done  vous  ponss  es 
rapidement  votre  pot-au-feu  au  point  de  la  faire  bouUliravantqaela 
mode soit dilutee  et  p^n^tr^e  par  I'eau,  qa'anrive-t-il  ?    L'albumine  se 

coagule  dans  la  viande  mime,  etempeche  la  jf^^a^in^d'ensortir; '■ 

TQusaTes  un  Bauilion  faible,  et  un  Bouilti  dur ;  mais,  au  cootraire,  si 
voos  arez  m^nag^  le  feu  de  mani^ie  que  la  viande  aiteu  le  temps  d'ltie 
p^nfetiee,  Valbumine  s'^leve  en  ^cume,  la  gSlatinex  dissout,  le  Bouillon 
e«t8aTOureux,nourissant,  et  le  Bouilti  tendre.  Voil&  toute  la  th^orie 
M  pot-au-feu.''— Cowr*  Gastrouomique,  1809, p.  29 1. 


1 


128  BOILING. 

substantial  diet,  especially  valnable  to  the  Poor,  whose  labori* 
Qus  employments  require  support.  ^  . 

If  they  could  get  good  Eating  put  i^ithin  their  reach,  they 
would  often  go  to  the  Butcher's  shop,  when  they  now  run  to 
the  Public-house. 
.   Among  the  variety  of  Schemes  that  have  been  suggest  for 

BETTERING   THE    CONDITION    OF  OUR  ENGLISH    PoOR,  a 

more  useful  or  extensive  Charity  cannot  be  devised,  than 
that  of  instructing  them  in  Economical  and  Comfortable 
Cookery,  except  providing  them  with  Spectacles.* 

"  The  Poor  in  Scotland,  and  on  the  Continent,  ma- 
nage much  better.  Oatmeal  Porridge  (No.  205  and  572) 
and  Milk  constitute  the  Breakfast  and  Suppef  of  those  pat- 
terns of  Industry,  Frugality,  and  Temperance,  the  Scottish 
Peasantry. 

,  "  When  they  can  afford  Meat,  they  form  with  it  a  largd 
quantity  of  Barley  Broth  (No.  204),  with  a  variety  of  Vege- 
tables, by  boiling  the  whole  a  long  time,  enough  to  serve  the 
Family  for  several  days. 

"  When  they  cannot  afford  Meat,  they  i;nake  Broth  of  Bar- 
ley and  other  Vegetables,  with  a  lump  of  Butter,  (see  No.  229,) 
all  of  which  they  boil  for  many  hours,  and  this  with  Oat 
Cakes  forms  their  dinner." — The  Hon.  John  Cochrane's 
S^aman^s  Guide,  p.  34. 

The  Cheapest  method  of  making  a  Nourishing  Soup — is 
least  known  to  those  who  have  most  need  of  it.  See  (No. 
229.) 

Our  neighbours  the  French  are  so  justly  famous  for  their 
skill  in  the  affairs  of  the  Kitchen,  that  the  adage  says,  *'  as 

*  *'  The  best  Glasses ^  set  in  singrle- jointed  steel  frames,  may  be  pnr- 
chaseil  wholpsalp,  at  the  rate  of  eighteen  shillings  per  dozen  pairs ;  thus, 
for  the  small  sum  oteiahteeu  peoce,  the  Benevolent  may  enjoy  thegra* 
tifyinar  reflection  of  giving  an  Industricus  workman  the  power  of  Ion? 
continuing  bis  labour  with  undiminished  ability,  and  of  earriins:  a  sub- 
sistence till  extreme  old  age.  In  no  way  can  so  much  good  be  donb 
Hcith  so  little  mouey?* 

''.Qui  Visum  Vitam  dat." 

See  xy^e  Economy  op  the  Eyfs,  by  thg  Author  of  this  work,  12fflO» 
J826,  p.  Il>  printed  for  Geo,  B.  Whittaker,  Ave-Maria  Lane. 


r 


feoiLiNe.  129 

tetay  FVencbtneft  ad  many  Cooks;"  surrounded  as  they  are 
hy  a  profusion  of  the  most  delicious  Wines  and  most  sedu(S 
ing  Liqueurs^  offering  every  temptation  and  facility  to  render 
drunkenness  delightful,  yet  a  tippling  Frenchman  is  a  **Rara 
Avis  ;"*— they  know  how  so  easily  and  completely  to  keep 
Life  in  repair  by  good  Eating,  that  they  require  little  or  no 
adjustment  froin  ^Drinking. 

This  accounts  for  that  *^  toujours  gaif"*  and  happy  equi- 
librium of  spirits,  which  they  enjoy  with  more  regularity 
than  any  people : — Their  Stomach  being  unimpaired  by  spi- 
-rituous  liquors,  embrace  and  digest  vigorously  the  food  they 
sagaciously  prepare  for  it,  and  render  easily  assimilable  by 
tjooking  it  sufficiently — wisely  contriving  to  gel  the  difficult 
•part  of  the  work  of  the  Stomach  done  by  Fire  and  Water. 

To  SALT  Mbat. — (No.  6.) 

In  the.  Summer  season,  especially.  Meat  is  frequently 
Spoiled  by  the  Cook  forgetting  to  take  out  the  Kernels  ;  one 
In  the  udder  of  a  round  of  Beef,  in  the  fat  in  the  middle  of 
the  Round,  those  about  the  thick  end  of  the  Flank,  &c.:  if 
these  are  not  taken  out,  all  the  Salt  in  the  world  will  not 
keep  the  Meat. 

The  Art  of  Salting, Meat,  is  to  rub  in  the  Salt  tho- 
toughly  and  evenly  into  every  part,  and  to  fill  all  the  holes 
full  of  Salt  where  the  kernels  were  taken  out,  and  where  tHe 
Butcher's  skewers  were.  , 

A  Round  of  Beef  of  25  pounds  will  take  a  pound  and 

'  a  half  of  Salt  to  be  rubbed  in  all  at  first,  and  requires  to  be 

turned  and  nibbed  every  day  with  the  Brine ;  it  will  be 

ready  for  dressing  in  four  or  five  days,*  if  you  do  not  wish 

it  very  salt. 

In  Summer,  the  sooner  Meat  is  salted  nfter  it  is  killed  the 
bietter,  and  care  must  be  taken  to  defend  it  from  the  flies^ 

In  Winter,  it  will  eat  the  shorter  and  tenderer,  if  kept  a 
few  days  (according  to  the  temperature  of  the  weather)  until 
its  fibre  has  become-  short  and  tender,  as  these  changes  do 
not  take  place  after  it  has  been  acted  upon  by  the  Salt^ 

*  ^not  to  he  cut  HU  Cold,  two  days  looker  suiting;  will  not  oioXy  tm- 
^rofe  itsflavoMO  but.  tbe  Mwt  will  keep  batter. 

a  5 


130  BOILIN0. 

In  Froil'ii  weather^  take  care  the  Meat  is  not  {ro^en^  and 
warm  the  Salt  in  a  Frying-pan.  The  extremes  of  Heat  *  and 
C^W  are  equally  tinlavourable  for  the  process  of  Salting— 4a 
the  former  the  meat  changes  before  the  Salt  ean  affect  it,-^ 
ill  the  latter  it  is  so  hardened,  and  its  juices  are  so  congealed* 
that  the  Salt  cannot  penetrate  it 

If  you  wish  it  Red,  rub  it  first  with  SaUpetre^  in  the  pro- 
poriion  of  half  an  ounce  and  the  like  quantfty  of  moist  su^r 
to  a  pound  of  common  Salt,  see  Satourt  Salt  Bv£t 
(No.  496.)     ^ 

You  may  impregnate  Meat  with  a  yery  agreeable  Vegeta* 
ble  Flavour,  bf  pounding  some  Sweet  Herbs  (No;  459)  and 
an  Onion  with  the  Sak ;  you  may  male  it  still  more  relishm 
ing  by  adding  a  rutle  Zest  (No.  255),  or  Savomy  Smcer 
(No.  457.) 

To  Pickle  Meat. 

"Six  pounds  of  Salt,  one  pound  of  Sugar,  and  four  ounces 
of  Saltpetre,  boiled  with  four  gallons  of  water,  skimmed, 
and  allowed  to  cool,  forms  a  very  slron?  pickle,  which 
will  preserve  any  Meat  completely  immersed  in  it.  To  ef- 
fect this,  which  is  essential,  either  a  heavy  board  or  a  flat 
stone  must  be  laiii  ^pon  the  meat  The  same  pickle  may  be 
used  repeatedly,  provided  it  be  boiled  up  occasionally  wiib 
additional  Salt  to  restore  its  strength,  diminished  by  the 
combination  of  part  of  the  Salt  with  the  meat,  and  by  the 
dilution  of  the  pickle  by  the  juices  of  the  meat  extracted. 
By  boiling,  the  Albumen,  which  would  cause  the  pickle  to 
spoil,  is  coagulated  and  rises  in  the  form  of  scum,  which 
must  be  carefully  removed," — See  Supplement  to  Encyclop^ 
Britan,  vol.  iv.  p.  340. 

Meat  kept  immersed  in  pickk  gains  weight.  In  one  ex- 
periment, by  Messrs.  Donkm  and  Gamble,  there  was  a  gain 
of  three  per  cent^  and  in  another  of  two  and  a  half;  but  in 
the  common  way  of  salting,  when  the  meat  is  not  immersed 
in  pickle  there  is  a  loss  of  about  one  pound,  or  one  and  a 
■•■    ' < 

*  In  tlie  West  Indies  they  can  scarcely  cure  Beef  with  pickle,  bnt 
easily  preserve  it  by  cutting  it  into  thin  slices  and  dippini;  them  n  Sen 
Water,  and  th^n  dryfnjE^  them  quickly  in  the  Sun;  to  which tfaeygtv* 
the  name  of  Jerked  i^tf^/*.— *BaowNRi««a«  Salt,.  8To.p«7ftl. 


loiufffi.  131 

half  in  sixteen*  See  Dr.  Wilkinson's  Account  x>f  the  pr^- 
ierving  power  of  Pyro- ligneous AciD,  &c.in  the  Philoso- 
phical Magazine  for  1821.    No.  273,  p.  12. 

An  H*bone  of  10  or  12  pounds  weight  will  require  about 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Salt  and  an  ounce  of  Moist 
Sugar  to  be  well  rubbed  into  it  ;-»it  will  be  ready  in  four  or 
five  days,  if  turned  and  rubbed  every  day. 

The  Time  Meat  requires  SaUingy  depends  upou^  the 
Weight  of  it,  and  how  much  Salt  is  used,  and  if  it  be  rubbed 
in  with  a  heavy  handy  it  will  be  ready  much  sooner  than  if 
only  lightly  rubbed. 

N.B.  Dry  the  Salt  and  rub  it  with  the  Sugar  in  a 
mortar. 

Pork  requires  a  longer  time  to  cure  (in  proportion  to  its 
weight)  than  Beef:  a  I^eg  of  Pork  should  be  in  Salt  eight  or 
ten  days ;  turn  it  and  rub  it  every  day. 

Salt.  Meat  should  be  well  wcLshed  before  it  is  Boiled,  espe- 
cially if  it  has  been  in  Salt  long,  that  the  Liquor  in  which 
the  meat  is  boiled,  may  not  be  too  Salt  to  make  Soup  of. 
(No.  218,  &c.)  and  (No.  555.) 

If  it  has  been  in  Salt  a  long  time,  and  you  fear  that  it  will 
be  too.  Salt,  wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  and  soak  it  in  luke- 
warm water  for  a  couple  of  hours ; — if  it  is  very  Salt,  lay  it 
in  water  the  night  before  you  intend  to  dress  it. 

A  Round  of  Salted  Beef.^  (No.  7.) 

As  this  is  too  large  for  a  moderate  family,  we  shall  write 
Erections  for  the  dressing  half  a  round :  get  the  Tongue  side* 

Skewer  it  up  tight  and  round,  and  tie  a  fillet  of  broad  tape 
wimd  it,  to  keep  the  skewere  in  their  places. 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  carefully  catch  the' 
wtrm  as  soon  as  it  rises; — let  it  boil  till  all  the  scum  is  re-' 
moTed,  and  then  put  the  boiler  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  to 
keep  simmering  slowly  till  it  is  done. 

Haifa  round  of  151bs.  will  take  about  three  hours — if  it 
^^igbs  more,  give  it  more  time. 

When  you  take  it  up,  if  any  stray  scum,  &c.  sticks  to  it,  that 
"^  escaped  the  vigilance  of  your  skimmer,  wash  it  off  with 
*  Paste  Brush— ^rnish*the  dishes  with  Carrots  and  Tur- 
^^pa:— send  up  Carrots  (No.  129,)  Turnips  (No.  130,)  and 


132  aoiuNG. 

Parsnips,  or  Greens  {No.  118,)  &c.  on  sepsu^te  disl^s* 
Pease  pudding  (No.  555,)  and  My  Pcdding,  (No.  551,)  are 
all  veiy  proper  Accompaniments.  - 

N.  fi.  The  Outside  Slices,  which  are  generally  too  mach 
salted  and  too  much  boiled,  will  make  a  very  good  reli«b 
as  PoUed  Beef  (No.  503.)  For  using  up  the  remains  of 
a  Joint  of  Boiled  Beef,  see  also  Mubbk  aiid  Squetik  (No. 
505.) 

H^Bone  of  Beef  (No.  B*) 

Is  to  be  managed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  the 
Round,  but  will  be  sooner  boiled,  as  it  is  not  so  solid:  an 
H-bone  of  201bs.  will  be  enough  in  about  four  hours, — of 
lOlbs.  in  three  hours,  more  or  less,  as  the  weather  is  hotter 
or  colder.  Be  sure  the  boiler  is  big  enough  to  i  3w  it 
plenty  of  water-room  ;  let  it  be  well  covered  with  water,  set 
the  pot' on,  one  side  of  the  fire  to  boil  p:ently ;  if  it  boils  quick 
at  first,  no  art  can  make  it  tender  after ;  the  slower  it  boils^ 
the  better  it  will  look^  atid  tJie  tenderer  it  will  be.  The  same 
accompanying  vegetables,  as  in  the  preceding  Receipt.  Dress 
plenty  of  Carrots,  as  cold  Carrots  are  a  general  favourite  with 
cold  Beef. 

Mem. — Epicures  say  that  the  soft  Fat-like  marrow,  which 
lies  on  the  back,  is  delicious  when  Hot,  and  the  hard  Fat 
about  the  upper  corner  is  best  when  Cold. 

To  make  perfectly  good  Pease  Soup  in  Ten  Minutes, 
of  the  Liquor  in  which  the  Beef  has  been  boiled,  see  N.  B. 
to  (No.  218,) 

Obs, — In  "  Mrs.  Mason's  Ladies'  Assistant"  this  joint  i^ 
called  Haunch-bone ;  in  "  Henderson's  Cookery,'*  Edge- 
bon'i ;  in  "  Domestic  Management,"  Aitch-bone  ;  in  "  Rey- 
nolds' Cookery,"  Ische-bone ;  in  "Mrs.  Lydia  Fisher's  Pru- 
dent Housewife,"  Ach-bone;  in  "  Mrs.  M'lver's  Cookery," 
Uook'bone.  We  have  also  seen  it  spelt  £ocA-bone,  and 
Ridge-hone,  and  we  have  also  heard  it  called  Natch^ 
Bonk. 

N.  B.  Read  the  note  imder  (No.  7,)  and  to  make  per- 
fectly good  Pease  Soup  of  the  Pot^Liquor,  in  tenMin^tes^ 
»ee  Obs.  to  (No.  218,)  (No*  229,)  and  (No.  555. J 


B0ILLV6,  )3d 

Rihs  of  Reef  salted  ajid  roM.— (No.  9.) 

iBriskets,  and  the  various  other  pieces,  are  dressed  in  thi 
teme  way.  *'  fVow  Wow'*  sauce  (No,  328,)  is  an  agreeable 
Companion. 

Half  a  Calfs  Ilead.—(^o.  10.) 

Cut  it  in  two,  and  take  out  the  Brains ; — ^wash  the  head 
well  in  several  waters,  and  soak  it  in  warm  water  for  a  quar« 
let  of  an  hour  before  you  dress  it.  Put  the  Head  into  a  Sauce- 
pan with  plenty  of  cold  water ;  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil, 
and  the  scum  rises,  carefully  remove  it. 

Half  a  Calf's  Head  fwitliout  the  akinj  will  take  from  an 
hour  .5ind  a  half  to  two  hours  and  a  quarter,  according  to  its 
size ;  ilftA  the  Skin  on  about  an  hour  longer : — it  must  be 
stewed  very  gently  till  it  is  tender  ;  it  is  then  extremely  nu- 
tritive, and  easy  of  digestion. 

Put  eight  or  ten  Sage  leaves  (some  Cooks  use  Parsley 
instead,  or  equal  parts  of  each,)  into  a  small  saucepan,-* 
boil  them  tender  (about  half  an  hour,)  then  chop  them  very 
fine,  and  set  them  ready  on  a  plate. 

Wash  the  Brains  well  in  two  waters,  put  them  into  a  large 
Basin  of  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  and  let  them  soak 
for  an  hour, — ^then  pour  away  the  cold,  and  cover  them  with 
hot  water,  and  when  you  have  cleaned  and  skinned  them, 
put  them  into  a  Stewpaig  with  plenty  of  cold  water, — when  it 
hoils,  take  the  scum  off  very  carefully,  and  boil  gently  for  10 
or  15  minutes, — now  chop  them,  (not  very  fine,)  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  Sage  leaves  and  a  couple  of  table- 
spoonsful  of  thin  melted  butter  and  a  little  salt,  (to  this  some 
CoDks  add  a  little  Lemon  juice,)  and  stir  ihem  well  together, 
arid  as  soon  as  they  are  well  wsirmed  (take  care  they  don't 
hura)  skin  the  IbngUe  * — ^trim  off  the  roots,  and  put  it  in 
the  middle  of  a  dish,  and  the  Brains  round  it.  Or  chop  the 
Biains  with  a  Shallot,  a  little  Parsley,  and  four  hard  boiled 
%§s,  and  put  them  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Bechamel,  or 


*  Tiiis^  Salted,  makes  a  very  pretty  Supper-disb< 


134  BOILING. 

White  Sauce  (No.  2  of  364.)  A  Calf  *s  Cheek  is  usually  at- 
tended by  a  Pig's  cheek,  a  knuckle  of  Ham  or  Bacon  (No. 
13,)  or  (No.  626,)  or  pickled  F«rk  (No.  lU)  and  Greens, 
Brocoli,  Caulifl9wers,  or  Peas,  and  always  by  Parsley  and 
Butter,  see  (No.  261,)  or  (No.  311,)  or  (No.  343.) 

If  you  like  it  full  dressed,  score  it  superficially, — beat 
up  the  yoke  of  an  Egg,  and  rub  .it  over  the  head  with  a  fisa- 
ther;  powder  it  with  a  seasoning  of  finely  minced  (or  dried 
and  powdered)  Winter  Savory  or  Lemon-thyme,  (or  Sa^,} 
Parsley,  Pepper,  and  Salt,  and  bread  crumbs,  and  give  it  a 
brown  with  a  salamander,  or  in  a  tin  Dutch  oven :  when  it 
begins  to  dry,  sprinkle  a  little  melted  butter  over  it  with  a 
paste  brush. 

You  may  Garnish  the  Dish  with  Broiled  Rashers  of  Bacon 
(No.  526,  or  527.) 

Obs.'^Calf's  head  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  and  favourite 
dishes  in  the  list  of  boiled  meats ; — but  nothing  is  more  in- 
sipid when  cold ;  and  nothing  makes  so  nice  a  Hash  ;  there^ 
fore,  don't  forget  to  save  a  quart  of  the  Liquor  it  was  boiled 
in,  to  make  Sauce,  &c.  for  the  Hash,,  see  also  (No.  520.) 
Cut  the  head  and  tongue  into  slices,  trim  them  neatly  and 
leave  out  the  grisles  and  fat,  and  slice  some  of  the  Ba- 
con, that  was  dressed  to  eat  vvith  the  head,  and  warm  them  in 
the  hash. 

Take  the  bones  and  the  trimmings  of  the  Head,  a  bundle 
of  Sweet  Herbs,  an  Onion,  a  roll  of  Lemon  Peel,  and  a  blade 
of  bruised  Mace :  put  these  into  a  saucepan,  with  the  quart 
of  liouor  ypu  have  saved,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  an  hour, 
pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin — wash  out  your  stew- 
pan — add  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  to  the  Brains,  and  Pars- 
ley and  Butter  you  have  left,  and  pour  it  to  the  gravy  yoi; 
have  made  with  the  bones  and  trimmings ;  let  it  boil  up  for 
ten  minutes,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve ;  season 
it  with  a  table-spoonful  of  white  Wine,  or  of  Catsup  (No. 
439,)  or  Sauce  Superlative  (No.  429:)  give  it  a  boil  up, 
skim  it,  and  tlien  put  in  the  Brains  and  the  slices  of  Head 
and  Bacon ;  as  soon  as  they  are  thoroughly  warm,  ^it  must 
net  hoily)  the  hash  is  ready.  Some  Cooks  £^-bread-crumb, 
ard  fry  the  finest  pieces  of  the  head,  and  lay  them  round  the 
hash. 


BOILINO.  *  135 

N,  B.  You  may  garnish  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  slices 
Of  Bacon  toasted  in  a  Dutch  oven,  (see  Nos.  526  and  527,) 
slices  of  Lemon  and  Fried  Bread. 

To  make  Ghavy  for  Hashes,  &c.  see  (No.  360.) 

PicA/eefPorA,— (No.  11,) 

Requires  more  time  than  any  meat»  If  you  buy  your  Port, 
ready  salted^^zsk  how  many  days  it  Ikis  been  in  salt, — if  many, 
— it  will  require  to  be  soaked  in  water  for  six  hours  before  you 
dress  it.  When  you  cook  it,  wash  and  scrape  it  as  clean 
as  possible;  when  delicately  dressed,  it  is  a  favourite  dish 
with  almost  every  body ;  take  care  it  does  not  Boil  fast ; 
if  it  does,  the  Knuckle  will  break  to  pieces,  before  tlie  thick 
part  of  the  meat  is  warm  throi^h ;  a  LEG  of  seven  pounds 
takes  three  hours  and  a  half  very  slow  simmering.  Skim 
your  pot  very  carefully,  and  when  you  take  the  meat  out  of 
the  Boiler,  scrape  it  clean. 

Some  sagacious  Cooks  (who  remember,  to  how  many 
more  nature  has  given  Eyes,  than  she  has  given  Tongues 
and'  Brains,)  when  Pork  is  boiled,  score  it  in  Diannioods, 
and  take  out  every  other  square — and  thus,  present  a  re^ 
tainer  to  the  Eye  to  plead  for  them  to  the  palate, — ^but,  thi$ 
is  pleasing  the  Eye  at  the  expense  of  the  Palate.  A  Legofnice 
Pork  nicely  salted,  and  nicely  boiled,  is  as  nice  a  cold  relish 
as  cold  Ham— especially  if,  instead  of  cutting  into  the  middle 
when  hot,  and  so  letting  out  its  juices,  you  cut  it  at  the 
Knuckle — slices  broiled,  as  (No.  487,)  are  a  good  Luncheon, 
or  Supper. — To  make  Pease  Pudding,  and  Peas  Soup  ex- 
tempore, see  N.  B.  to  (Nos.  218  and  555.) 

Mem. — Some  Persons  who  sell  Pork  ready  Salted  have  a 
silly  trick  of  cutting  the  Knuckle  in  two— we  suppose  that  this 
is  done  to  save  their  salt,  but  it  lets  all  the  Gravy  out  of  the 
Leg,  and  unless  you  1>oil  your  Pork  merely  for  the  sake  of 
the  Pot-Liquor,  which  in  this  case  receives  all  the  goodness 
and  strength  of  the  meat. — ^Friendly  Reader,  your  Oracle 
caudons  you  to  Buy  no  Leg  of  Pork  which  is  slit  at  the ' 
Knuckle. 

If  Pork  is  not  done  enough,  nothing  is  more  disagreeable ; 
— <if  too  much,  it  not  only  loses  its  colour  and  flavour,  but 
its  8ubi|tsiBce  becomes  soft,  like  a  jelly. 


136  BOILINO. 

It  must  n^v^  appear  at  table  without  a  good  Pease  Bid' 
ding,  (see  No,  555,)  and  if  you  please,  Parsnips  (No.  128,) 
they  are  an  excellent  Vesjetable  and  deserve  to  be  much 
more  popular,  or  Carrots  (No.  129,)  Turnips  and  Greens,  or 
Mashed  Potatoes,  &c.  (No.  106.) 

Obs. — Remember,  not  to  forget  the  Mcstard  Pot  (No. 
369,  No.  370,  and  No.  427.) 

Petit^Toes,  or  Sucking  Pig's  Fcef.— (No.  12.) 

Put  a  thin  slice  of  Bacoh  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan 
•with  some  broth,  a  blade  of  mace,'  a  few  peppercorns,  and 
a  bit  of  thyme  : — ^boil  the  feet  till  they  are  quite  tender; 
this  will  take  full  twenty  minutes  ;-r-but  the  heart,  liver, 
and  lights,  will  be  done  enough  in  ten,  when  they  are  to  be 
taken  out,  and  minced  fine. 

Put  them  all  together  into  a  Stewpan  with  some  Gravy, 
thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  it  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  to  simmer 
for  five  minutes,  frequently  shaking  them  about. 

While  this  is  doing,  have  a  thin  ^lice  of  Bread  toasted 
very  lightly,  divide  it  into  Sippets,  and  lay  them  round  the 
dish :  pour  the  mince  and  sauce  into  the  middle  of  it,  and 
split  the  feet,  and  lay  them  round  it. 

N.B.  Petitoes  are  sometimes  boiled  and  dipped  in  batter, 
and  fried  a  light  bro\vn. 

Obs. — If  you  have  no  Gravy— put  into  the  Water  you  stew 
the  petitoes  in,  an  Onion,  a  sprig  of  Lemon  thyme,  or  sweet 
Marjoram,  with  a  blade  of  bruised  Mace,  a  few  black 
Peppers,  and  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  Mushroom  catsup 
(No.  439),  and  you  will  have  a  very  tolerable  substitute  for 
Gravy.  A  bit  of  (No.  252)  will  be  a  very  great  improve- 
ment to  it. 

JBocon.— (No.  130 

Cover  a  pound  of  nice  streaked  Bacon  (as  the  Hampshire 
housewives  say — ^that  «*  has  been  starved  one  day  and  fed 
another,'')  with  cold  water, — let  it  boil  gently  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  take  it  up,  scrape  the  underside  well, 
and  cut  off  the  rind  :  grate  a  Crust  of  bread  not  only  on  the 
top,  but  all  over  it,  as  directed  for  the  Ham  in  the  follawiog 


r 


BOILING..  137 


Kceipt,  and  put  it  before  the  fire  for     few  minutes ;  it  must 
not  be  there  too  long,  or  it  will  dry  it  and  spoil  it. 

Two  pounds  will  require  about  an  hour  and  a  half;  ac- 
cordia^  to  its  thickness, — ^the  hock  or  gammon  being  very 
thick,  will  take  more. 

Obs,  2See  (Nos.  526  and  527) :  wheti  only  a  little  Bacon 
is  wanted^  these  are  the  best  ways  of  dressing  it. 
.  The  boilii^  of  Bacon,  is  a  very  simple  subject  to  comment 
upon, — but  our  main  object  is — to  teach  common  Cooks 
the  art  of  dressing  common  food  in  the  best  manner. 

Bacon  is  sometimes  as  salt  as  salt  can  make  it ;  therefore 
before  it  is  boiled,  it  must  be  soaked  in  warm  water  for  an 
hour  or  two,  changing  the  water  once  ;  then  pare  off  the 
nisty  and  smoked  part,  trim  it  nicely  on  the  imderside,  and 
scrape  the  rind  as  clean  as  possible. 

Mem.  Bacon  is  an  extravagant  article  in  Housekeeping'^^ 
there  is  often  twice  as  much  dressed  as  need  be, — when  it  is 
sent  to  table  as  an  accompaniment  to  boiled  Poultry  or  Veal, 
d  pound  and  a  half  is  plenty  for  a  dozen  people.  A  good 
German  Sausage  is  a  very  economical  substitute  for  Bacon— 
or  fried  Pork  Sausages,  (No.  87). 

Haniy  (No.  14.) 

Though  of  the  Bacon  kind,  has  been  so  altered  and 
hardened  in  the  curing,  that  it  requires  still  more  cai-e. 

Ham  is  generally  not  half  soaked, — as  salt  as  Brine  and 
hard  as  Flint ;  and  it  would  puzzle  the  Stomach  of  an  Ostrich 
to  digest  it. 

Mem. — The  Salt,  Seasoning,  and  Smoke,  which  preserve 
It  before  it  is  eaten,  prevent  its  solution  after,  and  unless  it 
^  very  long,  and  very  gently  stewed,  the  strongest  stomach 
viU  have  a  tough  Job  to  extract  any  nourishment  from  it. 
"  it  IS  a  very  dry  Westphalia  Ham,  it  must  be  soaked, 
according  to  its  age  and  thickness,  from  1 2  to  24  hours  ;— 
for  a  Green  Yorkshire  or  Westmoreland  Ham,  from  four  to 
fight  hours;  will  be  sufficient.  Lukewarm  water  will  soften 
It  much  sooner  than  cold — when  sufficiently  soaked,  trim  it 
nicely  on  the  underside — and  pare  off  all  the  rusty  and 
smoked  parts  till  it  looks  dehcately  clean. 


I3S  BOILIMO. 

lb.    oz. 
A  Ham  weighed  before  it  was  soaked     13 
After  •  -  -        12J 

Boiled  -  -  -        13      4 

Grimmed  for  Table        -  -        10     12 

Give  it  plenty  of  water  room,  and  put  it  in  while  -the 
walieriscold, — let  it  heat  Tery  gradually^  and  let  it  be  on  the  fire 
aa  hour  and  a  baif  before  it  comes  to  a  boil — ^let  it  be  w^ 
scummed,  and  keep  it  simmering  very  gently :  a  middling 
sized  hatn  of  fifteen  poimds  will  be  enough  in  about  four  or 
five  hours,  according  to  its  thickness. 

If  not  to  be  eat  till  Cold^  it  will  cut  the  shoiter  and  ten- 
derer for  being  boiled  about  half  an  hour  longer.  In  a  very 
small  Family,  where  a  Ham  will  last  a  week  or  ten  days,  it 
is  best  Economy  not  to  cut  it  till  it  is  cold-;— it  will  be  infi- 
nitely more  iuicy. 

Pull  off  the  Skin  carefully,  and  preserve  it  as  whole  as 
possible,  it  will  form  an  excellent  covering  to  keep  the  Ham 
moist : — when  you  have  removed  the  skin,  rub  some  Bread 
Raspings  through  a  Hair-sieve,  or  grate  a  crust  of  Bread,  put 
it  into  the  perforated  cover  of  the  Dredging  box,  and  shake 
it  over  it,  or  glaze  it ;  trim  the  Knuckle  with  a  fringe  of  cut 
writing  paper.  You  may  garnish  with  Spinage,  or  Turnips, 
&c 

Obs. — To  Pot  Ham  (No.  509),  is  a  much  more  useful 
and  economical  way  of  disposing  of  the  remains  of  the  joint, 
than  making  Essence  of  it  (No.  35^).  To  make  Soup  of  the 
Liquor  it  is  boiled  in,  see  N.B.  to  (No.  555). 

Tqngue. — (No.  15.) 

A  Tongue  is  so  hard,  whether  prepared  by  drjring  or 
pickling,  that  it  requires  much  more  cooking  than  a  Ham ; 
«*<^othing  of  its  weight,  takes  so  long  to  dress  it  properly. 

A  tongue  that  ha^een  salted  and  dried,  should  be  put  to 
soak,  (f^  it  is  Ol^and  very  hardy  24  hours  before  it  is 
wanted,)  in  plenty  of  water ; — a  Green  one  fresh  from  the 
pickle,  requires  soaking  only  a  few  hours ;— put  your  Tongue 
into  plenty  of  Cold  water,  let  it  be  an  hour  gradually  warm- 


BOHilNO.  139^ 

ing,  and  gm  it  iron  ^tre^  and  a  hitf»  to  four  hoars  very 
diw  simmering f  according  to  the  size,  kc4 

06«<^— When  yon  choose  a  Tongue,  endeayoor  to  leam 
how  long  it  has  been  dried  or  pidded,— pick  out  the 
plumpest,  and  that  which  has  the  smoothest  skid,  which, 
denotes  its  being  young  and  tender. 

The  Roots,  &e.  nmke  an  excellent  Relidi  rorrraD^  like 
(No.  509.)— or  Pease  Soup  (No.  218.) 

N.B.  Our  correspondent,  who  wished  us,  in  this  Edition, 
10  give  a  receipt  to  Koast  a  Tomgub,  will  find  an  awwer 
in  (No.  82.) 

J^rhgysy  Caponiy  Fawh,  Chi^imu,  ^. — (No.  16.) 

Arc  all  Boiled  exactly  in  the  same  manner,  only  allowing 
time,  according  to  their  size.  For  the  Stuffing,  &c.  (Nos. 
374,  375,  and  377,)  some  of  it  made  into  Balls,  and  boiled 
.or  fried,  make  a  nice  garnish,  and  are  handy  to  help— and 
you  can  then  reserve  some  of  the  inside  stuffing  to  eat  with 
the  Cold  fowl,  or  enrich  the  Hash  (Nos.  530  and  533.) 

A  Chicken  will  take  about , .  20  minutes. 

AFowl 40 

^    A  fine  Five-toed  Fowl  or  a  Capon  about  an  hour. 

A  small  Turkey,  an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  large  one,  two  hours  or  more.. 

Chickens  or  Fowls  should  be  killed  at  least  one  or  two 
days  before  they  are  to  be  dressed. 

Turkeys  (especially  large  ones)  should  not  be  dressed  till 
they  have  been  killed  three  or  four  days  at  least — in  Cold 
tfeqther  sit  or  eight, — or  they  will  neither  look  White  nor 

eat  Tender.* 

Turkeys,  and  large  Fowls,  should  have  the  strings  or 
sinews  of  the  thighs  drawn  out. 

Truss  them  with  the  Ugs  outwards,  they  are  much  easier 
carved*  \  ,  . 


•  Bakbr  in  bis  Chronicle  tells  us  the  Turkey  did  not  reach  Engltod 
till  A.D.  1524,  itbout  the  J 5th  of  Henry  the  8th :  he  says, 
**  T^kie8,c9it^s,  hoppes,  piccarell,  ailid  beere, 
Cattte  isto  England  all  in  one  year,^ 


140  BOILING. 

Fowls  for  BoUing  shouM  be  chosen  as  white  as  possible  !* 
if  their  complexion  is  not  so  hn  as  you  wish,  veil  them 
in  (No*  2  of  No.  361) ;  those  which  have  black  legs  should 
be  roasted.  The  best  use  of  the  Liver  is  to  make  Sauce 
(No.  287). 

Poultry  must  be  well  washed  in  warm  water — ff  verf 
dirty  from  the  singeing,  &c.  rub  them  with  a  little  white 
Soap, — ^but  thoroughly  rinse  itoflF — before  you  put  them  into 
thePoU 

Make  a  good  and  clear  fire :  set  on  a  clean  pot,  with  pure 
and  clean  water,  enough  to  well  cover  the  Turkey,  &c.; 
the  slower  it  boils,  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will  be. — 
When  there  rises  any  scum,  remove  it ;  the  common  method 
of  some  (who  are  more  nice  than  wise)  is  to  wrap  them  up 
in  a  cloth,  to  prevent  the  scum  attaching  to  them ;  which,  if 
it  does,  by  your  neglecting  to  skim  the  pot,  there  is  no  get- 
ting it  off  afterwards,  and  the  Poulterer  is  blamed  for  the 
fault  of  the  Cook. 

If  there  be  Water  enough,  and  it  is  attentively  scummed^ 
the  Fowl  will  both  look  and  eat  much  better  this  way,  than 
when  it  has  been  covered  up  in  the  cleanest  cloth ;  and  the 
colour  and  flavour  of  your  Poultry  will  be  preserved  in  the 
most  delicate  perfection. 

Obs.-^Turkey  deserves  to  be  accompanied  by  Tongue 
(No.  15),  or  Ham  (No.  14) :  if  these  are  not  come-at-able, 
don't  forget  Pickled  Pork  (No.  11),  or  Bacon  and  greens 
(Nos.  83,  526,  and  527),  or  Pork  Sausages  (No.  87),' 
Parsley  and  Biilter  (No.  261)  ;  don't  pour  it  over,  but  send 
it  up  in  a  boat ;  Liver  (No.  287),  Egg  (No.  267),  or  Oyster 
sauce  (No.  278.)  To  warm  cold  Turkey,  &c.  (No.  533), 
and  following. 

To  Chill  the  Gizard  and  Rumpy  see  (No.  538).  Save  a 
quart  of  the  liquor  the  Turkey  was  boiled  in — this,  with 
the  bones  and  trimmings,  &c.  will  make  good  gravy  for  a 
Hash,  &c.  ** 

i2a6to,— (No.  17.) 

Truss  your  Rabbits  short,  lay  them  in  a  Basin  of  watm 
water  for  ten  minutes, — then  put  them  into  plenty  of  water, 
and  boil  them  about  half  an  hour  j  if  Large  pnes,  three 


BOILlXOi  141 

» 

quarters :  tf  very  Old,  an  hour :  gmother  them  with  plenty 
t»f  White  Onion  s?wc!e,(No,  298),  mince  the  Liver,  and  Jay 
it  round  the  dish,  or  make  Liver  sauce  (No.  287),  and  send 
H  up  in.  a  boat.  • 

Ohs. — Ask  those  you  are  going  to  mak6  Liver  sauce  for, 
if  they  .like  plain  Liver  sauce,  or  Liver  and  Parsley,  or 
Liver  and  Lemon  sauce,  (see  Nos.  287  and  288.) 

N.B-  It  will  save  much  trouble  to  the  Carver,  if  the 
Rabbits  l)e  cut  up  in  the  Kitchen,  into  pieces  fit  to  help  at 
table,  and  the  Head  divided,  and  one-half  laid  at  each  end, 
and  slices  of  Lemon  and  the  Liver  chopped  very  finely,  laid 
on  the  sides  of  the  Dish. 

At  all  events,  cut  off  the  Head  before  you  send  it  to 
Table, — we  hardly  remember  that  the  thing  ever  lived,  if 
we  don't  see  the  Head,  while  it  may  excite  ugly  ideas  to  see 
it  cut  up  in  an  attitude  imitative  of  Life ;  besides,  for  the 
preservation  of  the  Head,  the  poor  animal  sometimes  suffer^i 
a  slower  Death. 

Trtpe.*—(No.  18.) 

Take  care  to  have  fresh  Tripe,  cleanse  it  well  from  the 
fat,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about  two  inches  broad  and  fouf 
long ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  cover  it  with  Milk  and 
water,  and  let  it  boil  sjently  till  it  is  tender. 

If  the  Tripe  has  been  prepared  as  it  usually  is  at  the 
Tripe  «hops,  it  will  be  enough  in  about  an  hour,  (this 
depends  upon  how  long  it  has  been  previously  boiled  at 
the  Tripe  shop)  ;  if  entirely  undressed^ — it  will  require  two 
or  three  hours — ^according  to  the  Age  and  Quality  of  it. 

Make  some  Onion  sauce  in  the  same  manner  as  you 
do  for  Rabbits  (No.  298),  or  boil  (slowly  by  themselves) 
some  Spanish,  or  the  whitest  common  Onions  you  can  get ; 
— peel  them  before  you  boil  them  ;  when  they  are  tender, 
which  a  middling-sized  Onion  will  be  in  about  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour,  drain  them  in  a  hair  sieve,  take  off  the 


•  *<  HoMBRR  nipporte,  que  dans  un  r^gal  magnifiqiie  prepare  pour 
Achille,  on  servit  des  tripes  de  boeuf,  et  que  cela  s'^tait  toujours  ob- 
serve auz  Repas  DEb  Hbros."— CottTJ  Gasironomifoe,  p.  \65, 


r 


142  BOiLnfG. 

top  skins  till  dwy  look  nioe  and  white*  and  put  them  urith 

the  Tripe  into  a  tureen  or  soup-dish)  and  take  off  th«  fat  if 

any  floals  qn  the  surface. 

O^f.^Rashers  of  Bacon  (Nos.  526  and  527),  or  Fried 

Sausages  (No.  87),  are  a  very  good  acconipaniiBent  to  boiled 

Tripe,  Cow-heels  (No«  198),  or  Calfs  Feel,  see  Mr.  Mich. 

Kelly's  Sauce  (No*  311*),  or  Parsley  and  Butter  (No. 
^  261],  or  Caper  Sauce  (No.  274),  with  a  little  Vinegar  and 
^  Mustard  added  to  them-^or  Salad  Mixture  (No.  972  or 

453.) 
Tbipb  holds  the  same  Rank  amone  Solids,  that  Watkr 

Gruel  does  among  Soups — and  the  former  is  desirable  at 

Dinner,  when  the  latter  is  welcome  at  Supper.    Read  (No. 

572.) 

Cow  lfee2,^(No.  18.*) 

f  In  the  hands  of  a  skilful  Cook  will  furnish  several  good 
Meals,  when  boiled  tender,  see  (No.  198),  cut  it  into  Imnd- 
some  pieces,  Egg  and  bread  crumb  them,  and  Fry  them  a 
light  brown  and  lay  them  round  a  dish,  and  put  in  the 
middle  of  it  sliced  Onions  fried,  or  the  accompaniments 
ordered  for  Tripe.  The  Liquor  they  were  boiled  in  wiH 
make  Soups  (No.  229),  No.  240*),  or  (No.  555.) 

N.B.  We  give  no  Receipts  to  boil  Venisoii,  Geese, 
Ducks,  Pheasants,  Woodcocks,  anp  Peacocks,  ice. 
— as  our  aim  has  been  to  make  a  useful  Book,  not  a  Kg 
one,  see  (No.  82.) 


THB 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 


ROASTING. 


N.  B.  y  the  time  we  have  allowed  fw  floating,  appean  raOer 
longer  than  what  U  stated  in  former  worht^  we  can  only  say,  we  have 
written  from  actual  Experiments,-^nd  that,  the  different  may  be 
^counted  fory  by  eomsmon  Coohs  generaJly  being  fond  of  too  tierce  a 
fire,  and  of  putting  things  too  near  to  it.  *w^erce  a 

ofFak^Mf^^  ***  «*de/or  a  Temperature  rf about  50  degrees 

Slow  Roasting  if  as  advantageous  to  the  tendemese  and  Ha- 
vour  of  Meat  as  Slow  Boiling,  ef  which  everg  hodg  understands  the 
impartamee.  See  the  aeeouni  of  Count  Rumford's  Shoulder  of 
Mutton,  •' 

The  Warmer  the  weather,  and  the  staler  htHed  the  Meat  is^the 
less  time  it  will  require  to  roast  it. 

Meat  that  is  very  Ferf— requires  more  time  tbao  we  have  stated. 

Beer  is  tn  proper  season  throughout  the  whole  year.  Mem  ^As 
Buiehere  genersMg  caleulate  upon  its  being  a  Snnday^s  Dinner,  you 
can  seldom  depend  upon  its  being  tender  oh  any  other  day. 


Str-Lm»<2fflce/.— (No.  19.) 
The  Noble  Str^Loin*  of  about  fifteen  pounds,  (if  muck 
thicker,  the  outside  will  be  done^too  much,  before  the  inside 


*  Xbis  Joint  is  said  to  oiwe  its  fwme  to  Kia%  Cbaiias.  tbe  Second,  who 
dining  npon  a  Loin  of  Beef,  and  being  particularly  pteased  wltb  it» 
asM  tlie  name  of  the  Joint ;  said  for  its  merit  tt  should  be  kmghttd, 
and  heocafortti  called  Sir-Loin. 

"  Our  secoad  Charles  of  fame  faonU, 

On  Loia  of  Beef  did  dint; 
He  held  his  sword,  pleas'4  <^ar  the  meat^ 
Arise  thou  fam'd  Sir-Loin,*' 

Bellad  qfthe  New  Sir  John  Borleyeom, 


144  ROASTING. 

is  enough,)  will  require  to  be  before  the  fire  about  three  aad 
a  half  or  four  hours:  take  care  to  spit  it  evenly,  that  it  may  not 
be  heavier  on  one  side  tha^  the  other ; — put  a  little  clean 
Dripping  into  the  dripping  pan,  (tie  a  sheet  of  paper  over  it 
to  preserve  the  jFa^,*)  baste  it  well  as  soon  as  it  is  put  down, 
and  every  quarter  of  an  hour  all  the  time  it  is  roasting,  till  the 
last  half  hour;  then  take  off  the  paper,  and  make  some 
Gravy  for  it  (No.  326),  stir  the  fire  and  make  it  clear;  to 
Brown  and  Froth  it,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it,  b^te  it  with 


The  bfOUtd  of"  The  Gates  of  Calais"  calls  it 

*'  Reoown'd  S/r-Loin,  oft  times  decreed 

The  theme  of  English  Ballad ; 
Od  thee  our  kio^s  oft  deign  to  feed, 
Unknown  to  Frenchman's  palate ; 
Then  how  muet)  doth  thy  taste  exceed 
Soup-meagre,  frogs,  and  salad !" 

*  "  lo  the  present /ffl«Aio»  of  fattbnino  Cattle,  it  is  more  desire- 
nble  to  roast  away  the  Fat,  than  to  preserve  it.  If  the  honourable 
Societies  of  Agriculturists,  ut  the  time  they  consulted  a  learned  Professor 
about  the  composition  of  Manures,  had  consulted  some  competent 
authority,  on  the  nature  of  Animal  substances,  the  Public  might  hate 
escaped  the  over-grown  corpulency  of  the  Animal  flesh,  which  eveiy 
where  fills  the  markets.'*— Dwicrt/c  Management,  12mo.  1813,  p.  182. 

"  Game,  and  other  wild  animals  proper  for  foort,  are  of  very  saperior 
qualities  to  the  tame— from  the  total  contrast  of  the  circamstancesattend- 
ioglhem.  They  have  a  free  range  of  exercise  in  the  open  air,  and  cbooee 
their  own  food,  the  good  eflfects  of  which  are  very  evident  m  a  short  delicate 
texture  of  flesh,  found  only  in  them.  Their  juices  and  flavour  are  more 
pure,  and  their  Fat,  when  it  is  in  any  degree,  as  in  Venison,  and  some 
other  instances,  differs  as  much  from  that  of  our /at^e^  Animals,  as 
Silver  and  Gold  from  the  grosser  metals.  The  superiority  of  Wblch 
MnttoN  and  Scotch  Bbepis  owing  to  a  similar  cause  '* — Ilnd,  p.  150. 

If  there  is  more  Fat  than  yoa  think  will  be  entien  with  the  Meat,  cut 
it  off,  it  will  make  an  excellent  Puddino  (No.  554);  or  clarify  it,  see 
(No.  84),  and  use  it  for  Frying:— for  those  who  like  their  meat  don* 
thoroughly,  and  use  a  moderate  fire  for  roasting,  the  Fat  need  not  be 
covered  with  paper. 

J(f  your  Bee/u  large,  and  your  family  small,— cut  off  the  thin  end  and 
salt  it, — and  cut  out  and  dress  the  fillet,  («.  e.  commonly  called  the 
inside)  nextdaj^  as  Mock  Habb  (No.  67»):  thus  you  get  T/iree  g06d 
hot  Dinners.  See  also  (No.  483),  on  Made  Dishes.  ForSAncB /or 
Cold  Beef,  see  (No.  359),  and  Cucumber  Vinegar  (No.  3^),  Uoisaradisli 
Vinegar  (Nos.  399*  and  458). 


.BOASTING.  145 

biAkieri  find  dredge  it  with  flour;  let  it  go  a  few  minutes 
longer,  till  the  froth  rises,  take  it  up,  put  it  on  the  dish, 
&c. 

Gamisk  it  with  Hillocks  of  horseradish  scraped  as  fine 
€ts  possible  with  a  very  sharp  hnife^  see  (Nos.  458  and  399^). 
A  Yorkshire  pudding,  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  (No. 
595),  or  (No.  554.) 

Obs, — The  Inside  of  the  Sir^Loin  roust  never  he  cut* 
Hot,  but  reserved  entire  for  the  Hash,  or  a  mock  harb, 
(No.  67*.)  fFor  various  ways  of  dressing  the  Inside  of 
THE  Sir-Loin  See  No.  483,)  fFor  the  Receipt  to  Hash  or 
Broil  Beef  J,  (No.  484),  and  (Nos.  486  and  487) ;  and  for 
other  ways  of  employing  the  remains  of  a  joint  of  cold  Beef, 
(Nos.  503,  4,  5,  6.) 


Bibs  of  Beef.^[^o.  20.) 

The  Three  first  Ribs,  of  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds,  will 
take  three  hours,  or  .three  and  a  half:  thr.  fourth  and 
'mFTH  Ribs  will  take  as  long,  managed  in  the  same  way  as 
the  Sir-Loin. — ^Paper  the  Fat,  and  the  thin  part,  or  it  will  be 
done  too  much,  before  the  thick  part  is  done  enough. 

N.B.  A  Pig-iron  placed  before  it  on  the  bars  of  the  grate 
answers  every  purpose  of  keeping  the  thin  part  from  being 
too  much  done. 

Obs. — ^Many  persons  prefer  the  Ribs  to  the  Sir- Loin, 

r 
I 

Ribs  of  Beef  boned  and  rolled. — (No.  Si.)    • 

When  you  have  kept  two  or  three  ribs  of  beef  till  quite 
tender,— "take  out  the  bones,  and  skewer  it  as  round  as  pos- 
sible (like  a  fillet  of  veal)  :«<*-before  they  roll  it;  some  Cooks 
Egg  it,  and  sprinkle  it  with  veal  stuffing  (No.  374.)  As  the 
meat  is  more  in  a  solid  mass,  it  will  require  more  time  at  the 
fire  than  in  the  preceding  receipt ;  a  piece  of  ten  or  twelve 


*  <'  This  joint  is  oftei  spoiU.  for  the  next  day's  use,  by  an  injudicious 
mode  of  Carving.  If  you  object  to  the  outside,  take  the  brown  off,  and 
belp  tbe  next — by  the  outting  it  only  on  one  side,  yOu  preserve  the 
Gravy  in  tbe  meat^.and  thegocKlly  appearance  also— by  cutting  it,  on  tbe 
ooDtrary,  down  the  middle  of  this  joint,  all  tlie  gravy  runs  out,  it  be- 
comes dry,  and  exhibits  a  most  unseemly  aspect  when  brought  to  table  a 
second  time.''— From  Uda's  Cjokenj^  8vo.  1818,  p.  109. 

H 


146  naianvm* 

.  pouods  wtigha^  iritt  not  be  weU  and  thoroi^ly  rtwrtcditflafc 

Ihan  lour  and  a  halif  or  fife  hbiire. 

For  the  first  half  hour,  it  should  hot  be  less  than  12 
inches  firom  the. fire»  that  it  may  c^  ^aduaDv  wana  to. 
.the  centre:— the  last  half  hour  before  it  will  be  fini^ed, 

sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it ;  and  if  you  wish  to  froth  it,  flour 

it,  &c. 

MUTTON*— [Vo,  23.) 

As  Beef  requires  a  large  sound  fire.  Mutton  must  have  a 
brisk  and  sharp  one  ; — If  you  wish  to  have  Mutton  tender^  it 
should  be  huns  almost  as  long  as  it  will  keep  :f  and  then 
gcod  eight-^tooth^  i.  e.  four  years  old  Mutton,  is  as  good  eating 
as  Venison,  if  it  is  accompanied  by  (Nos.  329  and  346.) 

The  Leg,  Haunch,  and  Saddle,  will  be  the  better  for  being 
bung  up  in  a  coal  airy  place  for  four  or  five  days  at  least; 
in  Temperate  weather,  a  vfeek^V^Sold  weadier  ftn 
nays*  ^^w 

If  you  think  your  Mutton  will  not  be  tender  enough  ia  da 

"'  '         '-  -    -        -      -  .u^. 

^  Dbak  Swivt's  Receipt  *0  Roast  Mutton, 
^o  irMiiNiANi's  beautiful  air—-'<  Gently,  touch  the  wmrhUn^  I'^rt*'^ 

"  Gently  stir  and  blow  tbe  fire. 
Lay  the  mutton  down  to  roast, 

BresB  it  quickly,  I  desire, 
In  the  drippjnpf  put  a  toast. 

That.  I  hunger  may  remore-^ 

Mutton  is  the  meat  I  lave. 

^<  On  tbe  dresser  see  HUe; 
Ob!  theebarvii|ig.«rhlte«itdre4f 

Fioermeat  ne^r^nel  the  eye, 
On  the  i^weetest  grass  it  fed : 

Let  the  jiickgo  swiftly  round, 

Let  Hie  have  it  nicely  brownM. 

^*  On  tbe  table  spread  tbe  cloth, 
Let  the  knives  be  sharp  and  ci^an. 

Pickles  get  and  salad  both, 
Let  them  each  be  fresh  and  grwo. 

With  small  b«er,  go^  vie,  and  wine. 

O  ye  gods !  how  I  shall  dine! '^ 

f  S^thech^er^of  A«>tKit  to  Goofti*. 


l^QABTINO.  147 

honour  to  the  Spit,  dress  it  as  a  **  Gi^  deiept  kewra^*  see 
N,  B.  to  (No.  1,)  and  (No.  493.) 

A  Leg,—(^o.  24.) 

Of  eight  pounds  will  take  ahout  two  hours : — ^let  it  be  well 
bested,  and  frothed  in  the  same  m^ner  as  directed  in 
[No.  19.)  To  HashMdtton  (No.  484.)  To  Broil  it 
[No.  487,)  &c. 

A  Chine  or  Saddle^'So,  26.] 

(t.  e.  the  two  Loins,)  of  ten  or  eleven  pounds,  two  hours 
and  a  half:  it  is  the  business  of  the'  Bi^ner  to  take  off  the 
skin  and  skewer  it  on  again  to  defend  the  meat  from  extreme 
heat,  and  preserve  its  succulence ;  if  this  is  neglected,  tie  a 
$heet  of  paper  over  it :  (baste  the  strings  you  tie  it  on  with 
directly,  or  thejhnll^um :)  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  be* 
lore  you  think  it  will  be  done,  take  off  the  skin  or  paper, 
that  it  may  get  t  paje"  brown  colour, .  then  baste  it  and  flour 
it  liorhtly  to  froth  it.    We  like  (No.  346)  for  sauce. 

N.B.  Desire  the  Butcher  to  Cut  off  the  Flaps  and  the  tail 
and  chump  end,  and  trim  away  every  part  that  has  not  indis" 
ptttable  pretensions  to  be  eaten.  This  will  reduce  a  Saddle 
of  eleven  pounds  weight  to  about  six  or  seven  pounds. 

A  S Aott/cfer,— (No.  27J 

Of  seven  pounds, — ^ap  hour  and  a  half;  put  the  spit  in 
close  to  the  shank  bone,  and  run  it  along  the  blade  bone. 

N.  B.  The  BLADE  BONE  is  a  favourite  Luncheon  or  Su^r 
relish,  scored,  peppered  and  salted,  and  broil^  Ar  dpne  ii^  a 
Datch  Oven. 

ALom*^(^,  28.) 

or  Mutton,  from  an  hour  and  a  half,  to  an  houPv  and  three 


*^  Common  Ccok%  verjf  seldom  brown  the  ends  of  Weeks  and  C^ot'tu  ; 
to  have  this  done  nicely,  let  the  fire  be  a  few  iDcfaet  lonffer  at  each  ead, 
tiiBn  the  joint  that  is  roastinic,  and  oocasioiialty  plaov  the  spit  slaatiaf  « 
so  that  eiieh  ead  may  get  suftdest  fire  ;-*otherwi8e,  after  tba  wtnt  is 
done,  joif  nust  tii)|eU  op, pad  put th^  ends befo|» theftcf. 

H   2 


148  ROASTlNe. 

•c[wartcrs.-— Tiy  most  elegant  way  of  carving  this^  is  to  cut  it 
lensjthwise,  as  you  do  a  Saddle,  read  (No.  26.)  • 

N.B.  Spit  it  on  a  skewer  or  lark  spit,  and  tie  that  on  the 
common  spit,  and  do  hot  spoil  the  meat  by  running  the  sjrit 
through  the  prime  part  of  it. 

A  Necky—{So.  9.9.) 

About  the  same  time  as  a  Loin.  It  must  be  carefully  jointe^ 
or  it  is  very  diffigult  to  carye^  The  Neck  and  Breast  are  in 
small  families  Commonly  roasted  together,  the  Cook  will  then 
crack  the  bones  across  the.  middle  before  they  are 'put  down 
to  roast,  if  this  is  not  done  carefully,  they  are  very  trouble- 
some to  carve,— tell  the  Cook  when  she  takes  it  from  the  Spit, 
to  separate  them  before  she  sends  them  to  table. 

Obs,-^\f  there  is  more  Fat  than  you  think  will  be  eaten 
with  the  lean,  cut  it  off,  and  it  will  inake  a^  excellent  Sukt 
Pudding  (No.  551,)  or  (No.  554.) 

N.B.  The  best  way  to  Spit  this,  is  to  run  iron  skewecs 
across  it,  and  put  the  spit  between  them* 

^  Breast, -^{No.  30.] 

An  hour  and  a  quarter. 

To  Gfill  a  breast  of  Mutton,  see  Obs.  to  (No.  38.) 

\i4  .HawncA,— (No.  31j) 

{%.  e.  the  kg  and  part  of  the  loin)  of  Mutton;  send  up  two 
sauce  boats  with  it ;  one  of  rich  Mutton  Gravy,  made  widi- 
out  Spice  or  Herbs  (No.  347,)  and  the  other  of  Sweet  Sauce 
(Noi  346.)  It  generally  weighs  about  15  pounds,  and  re- 
quires about  three  hours  and  a  half  to  roast  it. 

Muttony  Venison  fashion — '•  (No.  32 . ) 

Take  a  neck  of  good  four  or  five  years  ojd  southdown 
Aether  Mutton  cut  long  in  the  bones ;  let  it  hang  (in  tem- 
perate weather)  at  least  a  week :  two  days  before  you  dress 
it,  take  allspice  and  black  pepper  gtoUhd  and  pounded  fin^, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each,  rub  them  tozether,  and  then  rub 
your  mutton  well  with  this  mixture  twice  a  day : — ^when  you 
dress  it,  wash  off  the  spice  with  warm  watery  and  coast  it 


I 


aOA^TINQ.  H9 

in  paste^  as  we  have  ordered  tbe  Haunch  of  Venison  ;-r-. 
Qio.63.) 

Obs: — Persevering  and  Ingenious  Epicures,  have  invented 
siaiiy  methods  to  give  Mutton  the  flavour  of  Venison — some 
say  that  Mutton  prepared  as  above,  may  be  mistaken  for 
F^SRUon^-— others  that  it  is  full  as  eood ; — the  refined  pa!a^ 
oiti' Grand  Gowrmandy  (in  spite  of  the  Spice  and  Wine  the. 
meat  has  been  fuddled  and  rubbed  with)  will  perhaps  still 
protest  against  **•  Welsh  Venison*^ — and  indeed  we  do  not 
imderstaud  by  what  conjuration  Allspice  and  Claret  can 
oqmmunicate  the  flavour  of  Venison  to  Mutton — we  con«. 
fess  our  fears  that  the  flavour  of  Venison,  (especially  of  its 
Fat)  is  inimitable — 'but  believe,  you  may  procure  Pnme 
eight-tooth  Wether  Mutton,  keep  it  the  proper  time,  and 
s^id  it  to  table  with  the  accompaniments  (No.  -346  and  347, 
&C.J  usujally  given  to  Venison,  and  a  Rational  Epicure  will 
eat  it  with  as  much  satisfaction,  as  he  would  **  teed  on  the 
King's  Fallow  Deer/' 

-       r£^L.— (No.  33.) 

Vral  requires  particular  care  to  roast,  it  a  nice  Brown.. 
Let  the  fire  be  the  same  as  for  Beef;  a  sound  large  fire  for  a 
larg^  joint,  and  a  brisker  fbr  a  smaller ;-— «put  it  at  some  dis- 
tance from  the  fire  to  soak  thoroughly,  and  then  draw  it  near 
to  finish  it  brown. 

When  first  laid  down  it  is  to  be  basted; — ^baste  it  again 
occasionally.  When  the  Veal  is  on  the  dish  pour  over  it 
half  a  pint  of  melted  Butter,  .(No.  256 :)  if  you  have  a  little 
brown  Gravy  by  you,  add  that  to  the  Butter,  see  (No.  326.) 
Wtth  those  joints  which  are  not  Stuffed^  send  up  Forcemeat 
(No.  374,)  or  (No.  375,)  in  Balls,  or  rolled  into  Sausages  a^ 
garnish  to  the  dishy  or  fried  Pork  Sausages  (No.  87,)  Eacon 
(No.  1 3,  or  526,  or  527,)  arid  greens,  are  also  always  ex- 
pected with  Veal. 

•  '  Fe&«  o/r^d/,— (No.  34.)  ' 

Of  from  twelve  to  sixteen  pounds,  will  reqture  from  four 
^>  five  hours  at  a  good  fire ;  make  some  Stuffing  or  Force- 
meat (No.  374   or  5,)   and  put  it  in  under  the  flap».  th^t 


I 


i50  ItOASTlKd. 

« 

there  may  be  some  left  to  eat  cold,  or  to  season  li  Hasr  :*^ 
brown  it,  and  pour  good  melted  butter  (No.  266)  over'it»  asr 
directed  in  (No,  33.) 

Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon,  and  Cakes  or  Balls  of 
Sttuffingr,  or  (No.  374,)  or  (No.  375,)  or  Duck  stuffing  (No* 
61,)  or  Fried  Pork  Sausages,  see  (No.  87,)  Curry  sauce  (No» 
348,)  Bacon  (No.  13,)  and  Greens,  &e. 

N.B.  Potted  Veal  (No.  533.) 

06«.— ^  bit  of  the  Brown  outside  is  a  favourite  with  the 
Epicure  in  Roasts. — The  Kidney  cut  out — ^sliced  and  broiled, 
see  (No.  358,)  is  a  high  relish  which  some  Bons  Vivants  are 
fond  of. 

j1  Loin— (No.  35i) 

is  the  best  part  of  the  Calf,  and  will  take  about  three  hoimi 
roasting.  Paper  the  kidney  fat,  and  the  back :  some  Cooks 
send  it  up  on  a  Toast,  which  is  eaten  with  the  Kidney  and 
the  fat  of  this  part,  which  is  as  delicate  as  any  marrow.  If 
there  is  more  of  it  than  you  think  will  be  eaten  with  the  Veal, 
before  you  roast  it  cut  it  out,  it  will  make  an  excellent  suet 
pudding : — take  care  to  have  your  fire  long  enough  to  brown 
the  ends — same  accompaniments  as  (No.  34.) 

^  Shoulder,^  (No.  36.) 

From  three  hours  to  three  hours  and  a  half, — stuff  it  with 
the  forcemeat  ordered  for  the  fillet  of  veal,  in  the  underside, 
or  Balls  made  of  (No.  374.J 

Neck^  best  end, — (No.  37.) 

Will  take  two  hours  ;• — same  accompaniments  as  (No,  34.) 
The  Sctag  part  is  best  made  into  a  pie,  or  broth. 

Breast,— (^0.  38.) 

From  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Let  the  teiil  re* 
main  till  it  is  almost  done,  then  take  it  off,  to  brown  it ;  baste, 
fiour,  and  froth  it. 

*  To  Mince  or  Hash  Vbal,  (see  No.  5\l,  or5U*«)  and  to  make 
a  Raqout  of  cold  Veal  (No.  612.) 


RcWk&mtGi  151 

Ofo*— Thk  makes  a  savoury  relish  for  a  Lanchecm  or  Sap* 
per :— ory  instead  of  roasting,  boil  it  aiough,  pat  it  in  a  cloth 
between  two  pewter  dishes^  vrith  a  weight  on  the  upper  one^ 
dod  let  it  remain  so  till  cold,  then  pare  and  trim  e^  and 
crumb  it»jmd  broil,  or  warm  it  in  a  Dutch  ovea  ;  serve  with> 
it  Gap^R  (No;.  274,)  or  Wow  Wow  saiKe  (No.  328.)  BreaH 
«yf  Mutton  may  he  dressed  the  same  way. 

Veal  Sweetbread,— (^o.  39.) 

Trim  a  fine  Sweetbread,  (it  cannot  be  too  fresh,)  parboil 
itibr  five  minutes^  and  throw  it  into  a  bpsin  of  cold  water. 
Roast  it  plain — or 

Be^  lip  the  yolk  of  an  l^g,  and  prepare  some  fine  Bread 
crumbs.  When  the  Sweetbread  is  cold,  dry  it  thoroughly  in 
a  cloth,  run  a  lark  spit  or  a  skewer  through  it,  and  tie  it  on 
the  ordinary  spit :  egg  it  with  a  paste  brush,  powder  it  well 
with  bread  crumbs,— and  roast  it. 

For  Sauce,  fried  Bread  Crumbs  round  it,  and  melted  butter 
with  a  little  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  and  Lemon  Juice 
j[Nos«  307,  or  354,  or  356,)  or  serve  them  on  buttered  Toast 
furnished  with  Egg  Sauce  (No.  267,)  oj  with  Gravy  (Ndv 
329.)  - 

Obs, — ^Instead  of  spitting  them,  you  may  put  them  into  a 
tin  Dutch  Oven,  or  Fry  them,  (Nos.  88,  or  89,  or  513.) 

LAMB— (No.  40.) 

Is  a  delicate,  and  commonly  considered  Tender  meat — ^but 
those  who  talk  of  tender  Lamb — ^while  they  are  thinking  of 
the  Age  of  the  Animal,  forget,  that  even  a  Chicken  must  be 
kept  a  proper  time  aHer  it  has  been  killed,  or  it  will  be  tough 
picking. 

Wohil  experience  has  warned  us  to  beware  of  accepting  an 
invitation  to  Dinner  on  Easter  Sunday, — ^unless  commanded 
by  a  thorough  bred  (rounnand,  our  Incisores,  Molares, 
arid  Principal  Viscera,  have  protested  against  the  Impru- 
dence of  encountering  Youn^  tough  stringy  Mutton,  under  the 
mtsnomem  of  Grass  Lamb.  The  proper  name  for  *'*■  Easter 
Grass  Lamb'*'*  is  **  Hay  Mutton." 

To  the  usual  accompaniments  of  Roasted  M^t,  Green 


152  ROASTlNCf. 

Mint  Sauce  (No.  303,)  a  Salad  (Nos*  372  and  138,*)  is 
commonly  added ;  and  some  Cooks,  about  five  minutes  before: 
it  is  done,  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  fresh  e:athered  and  finely 
minced  Parsley,  or  (No*  318.)  Lamb,  and  all  Young  Meats,. 
ought  to  be  thoroughly  done ;  therefore  do  not  take  either 
Lamb. or. Veal  off  the  Spit  till  you  see  they  drop  white 
gravy. 

Grass  Lamb  is  in  season  from  Easter  to  Michaelmas, 

House  Lamb  from  Christmas  to  Lady-Day. 

SAam-Lamb,  see  Obs,  to  following  Receipt.  ' 

N.B,  When  green  mint  cannot  be  got,  Mint  Vinegar 
(No.  398),  is  an  acceptable  substitute  for  it  j  and  Crisp 
Parsley  (^o-  316),  on  a  Side  plate,  is  an  admirable  accom- 
paniment. 

Hmd-Quartery — (No.  41.) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  take  from  an  Hour  and  thred 
quarters  to  two  Hours : — ^baste  and  froth  it  in  the  same  way 
as  directed  in  (No.  19  ) 

Obs, — A  Quarter  of  a  PorkUng  is  Sometimes  skinned,  cut, 
^nd  dressed  Lamb -fashion,  and  sent  up  as  a  substitute  fof  it. 
The  Leg  and  the  Loin  of  Lamb,  when  little;  should  be 
roasted  together,— the  former  being  lean,  the  latter  fat, — and 
the  Gravy  is  better  preserved. 

Fore-Quarter, — (No.  4?.) 

Of  ten  pounds,  about  two  hours. 

N.B.  It  is  a  pretty  general  custom,  when  you  take  off  the 
Shoulder  from  the  Ribs,  to  squeeze  a  Seville  orange  over 
them,  and  sprinkle  them  with  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt. 

Obs, — This"  may  as  well  be  done  by  the  Cook  before  it 
comes  to  Table ;  some  people  are  not  remarkably  expert  at 
dividing  these  joints  nicely. 

l>5f,-.(No.  43.) 
Of  five  potmds,.-— from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Shoulder.^(^o.  U.) 

With  a  quick  fire,  an  hour.  > 

See  Obs.  to  (No.  27*)  -        . 


ROASTtNGI  153 

Rib»^[No.  45.)  . 

About  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  quarter— rjoint  it  nicely, 
crack  the  ribs  across,  and  divide  them  from  the  Brisket  after 
it  is  roasted*  ■ 

LoiTiy — (No.  46,) 

^    An  hour  and  a  quarter. 

JVecA,— (No.  47.) 
An  hour. 

BrctM<,-.(No.  48.) 
Three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

PO/^Jf.— (No.  49.) 

The  prime  Season  for  Pork,  is  from  Michaelmas  t6 
March. 

Take  particular  care  it  be  done  enough  :  other  meats 
underdone  are  unpleasant,  but  Pork  is  iibsolutely  uneatab^e^ 
—the  sight  of  it  is  enough  to  appal  the  sharpest  Appetite,  if 
its  Gravy  has  the  least  Tint  of  Redness. 

Be  careful  of  the  Crackling — if  this  be  not  crwp— or  if  h 
be  burned — you  will  be  scolded. 

For  Sauces,  (No.  300),  (No.  304),  and  (No.  342). 

Obs. — Pease  Pudding  (No.  555),  is  as  good  an  acl 
companiment  to  roasted,  as  it  is  to  boiled '  Pork ;  and 
ino6t  palates  are  pleased  with  the  Savoury  Powder  set 
down  in  (No.  51),  or  Bread  Crumbs  mixed  with  Sage 
and  Onion  minced  very  fine,  or  ZEST  (No.  255)  sprinkled 
over  it. 

N.B.  **  The  western  Pigs,  from  Berks,  Oxford,  and 
Bucks,  possess  a  decided  superiority  over  the  eastern,  ot 
Essex,  Sussex,  and  Norfolk;  not  to  forget  toother  qualifi- 
cation of  the  former,  at  which  some  readers  may  smiley  a 
thickness  of  the  skin,  whence  the  Crackling  of  the  roasted 
Pork  is  a  fine  gelatinous  substance,  which  may  be  easily 
irasticated,  whilst  the  Crackling  of  the  thin  skinned  breeds^ 
is  roasted  into  good  block  Tin,  the  reduction  of  which  would 
almc^l^  require  Teeth  of  Iron." — Moubray  oji  Poultry ^  1816, 
p.  242.  1         ..    .^      .  / 

H  5 


134  ROASTINO; 

A I^,— (No.  5a) 

Of  eight  pounds,  will  require  about  three  hours :  score  th? 
skin  across  in  narrow  stripes,  (some  score  it  in  diamonds) 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart ; — stuff  the  knuckle  with 
sage  and  onion  minced  fine,  and  a  little  grated  bread  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  Egg;  see  Duck 
Stuf^ng  (No.  61.) 

ly^s  not  put  it  too  near  the  Fire, — rub  a  little  sweet  Oil  on 
the  skin  with  a  paste  brush,  or  a  goose  feather :  -  this  makes 
the  Crackling  crisper  and  browner  than  basting  it  with 
dripping ;  and  it  will  be  a  better  colour  than  all  the  art  of 
Cookery  can  make  it  in  any  other  way.  And  this  is  the  best 
Siray  of  preventing  the  skin  from  blisterii^ — ^which  is  prin- 
ci|Kdly  occasioned  by  its  being  put  too  near  the  fire. 

Leg  of  Pork  roasted  iviihou*  the   ^in^  commonly  called 

Mock  Goose.  *-^(No.  51.) 

Parboil  it,  tiake  off  the  skin,  and  then  put  it  down  to  roast ; 
baste  it  with  butter,  and  make  a  Savoury  Powder  of  finely 
minced,  or  dried  and  powdered  Sage,  ground  bldck  pepper, 
salt,  and  some  bread  crumbs,  rubbed  together  through  a 
dillender :  you  may  add  to  this  a  little  very  finely  minced 
Onion ;  sprinkle  it  with  this  when  it  is  almost  roasted  ;  put 
half  a  pint  of  made  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  Goose  stuffing 
(No.  378)  under  the  knuckle  skin^  or  g;arnish  the  Dish  with 
Bali^  of  it  fried  or  boiled. 

The  ffrwAm,— (No.  52.) 

Of  9even  oi:  eight  pounds,  may  be  dressi^  in  the  satne 
inknner  ;-<-it  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half  roasting. 

A  Bacon  Spare'Rib^ — (No.  53.) 
TJsiially  weighs  about  eight  or  nine  pounds,  and  will  tike 


■»  r  '^- 


I 


*  Jprucilla  BaMlehmrst,  in  her  Houvkeeper's  ItMtruetor^  ftvo. 
IRieffield,  1816,  page  19,  gives  qs  a  receipt  '*  to  Goosify  a  slioulderof 
tamb**  <'  trn  gnmd l^uisinier,'* informed  me,  that  <*  to  Lambify''  tiie 
leg  of  a  Porkliog;  to  a  favourite  Metamorphosis  in  the  Freiidi  kiteteiii 
wbeo  Houie  Lamb  is  veiy  dear. 


MASTING.  /  155 

from  two  to  three  hours  to  roast  it  thoroughly,^»npt  exactly 
according  to  its  weight,  but  the  thickness  of  the  meat  upoa 
it,  which  varies  very  much : — lay  the  thick  end  nearest  to  the 
Fire. 

A  proper  bald  Spare^Rib  of  eight  pounds  weight,  (so 
called  because  almost  all  the  Meat  is  pared  off,)  with  a  steady 
fire,  will  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  quarter; — there  is  so 
little  meat  on  a  bald  Spare^Rib,  that  if  you  have  a  large 
fierce  fire,  it  will  be  burnt  before  it  is  warm  through ;  joint 
it  nicely,  and  crack  the  Ribs  across  as  you  do  Rtbs  of 
Lamb. 

When  you  put  it  down  to  roast,  dust  on  some  flour,  and 
baste  it  with  a  little  butter;  dry  a  dozen  Sa^  leaves,  and 
rob  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  them  mto  the  top  of 
a  peppej:  box,  and  al)out  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the 
meat  is  done,  baste  it  with  butter,  dust  the  pulverized  Sage, 
or  the  wvoury.  powder  in  (No.  51),  or  sprinkle  with  Duck 
Stuffing  (No.  61.) 

Obs. — Make  it  a  general  rule,  never  to  pour  grevy  over 
any  thing  that  is  roasted ;  by  so  doing,  the  dredging*  &c.  is 
washed  oS^  and  it  eats  insipid. 

Some  people  carvB  a  Spare-Rib  hf.  cutting  out  in  slices 
the  thick  part  at  the  bottom  of  the  bOoes :  when  this  meat  is 
cut  av^y,  the  bones  may  be  easily  separated,  and  are 
esteemed  very  sweet  picking. 

Applesauce  (No.  304),  Mashed  Potatoes  (No*  106),  and 
good  Mustard  (No.  370),  are  indispensable* 

Loin — (No.  54.) 

Of  five  pounds,  must  be  kept  at  a  good  distance  from  the 
fire  on  account  of  the  Crackling^  and  will  take  about  two 
hours — ^if  very  iat,  half  an  hour  longer. 

StuflP  it  with  Duck  Stuffing  (No.  378).  Score  the  skin  in 
stripes,  about  a  quarter  of  an  Inch  apart,  and  rub  it  with 
Salad  Oil,  as  directed  in  (No.  50).  You  may  sprinkle  over 
it,  some  of  the  Savoury  powder  recommended  for  the  Mock 
Gooee(No.51). 

A  Chine,— pHo.  55.) 

If  prted  down  the  back-^^bone,  so  as  to  have  bUt  one  si^e. 


156  ROASTmC. 


good  fire  will  roast  it  in  two  hours ;  if  not  parted,  three 
hours. 

N.B.  Chines  are  generally  salted  and  boiled. 

A  Sucking  Pig 9* — (No.  56.) 

Is  in  prime  order  for  the  spit,  when  about  three  weeks  old. 

It  loses  \.wrt  of  its  goodness  every  hour  after  it  is  killed;— 
if  not  quite  fresh,  no  art  can  make  the  CrackUng  crisp. 

To  be  in  perfection,  it  should  be  killed  in  tlie  morning,  to 
he  eaten  at  dinner; — it  requires  very  careful  roastinjj.  A 
sucking  Pig,  like  a  young  Child,  must  not  be  left  for  aa 
instant. 

The  ends,  must  have  much  more  fire  than  the  middle ; 
for  this  purpose,  is  contrived  an  Iron  to  hang  before  the 
middle  part,  called  a  Pig  iron.  If  you  have  not  this,  use  a 
common  flat  Iron,  or  keep  the  fire  fiercest  at  the  two  ends. 

For  the  Stuffing,  take  of  the  crumb  of  a  stale  loaf  about 
five  ounces ;  rub  it  through  a  cullender ;  mince  fine  a  hand* 
ful  of  sage,  {i.  e\  about  two  ounces,)  and  a  large  onion, 
(about  an  ounce  and  a  half  ;f )  mix  these  together  with  an 
egg,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as 
an  egg;  fill  the  belly  of  the  pig  with  this,  and  sew  it  up; 
lay  it  to  the  fire,  and  baste  it  with  Salad  Oil  till  it  is  quite 
done ; — do  not  leave  it  a  moment ;  it  requires  the  most  vigi- 
lant attendance. 

Roast  it  at  a^  clear  brisk  fire,  at  some  distance.  To  gain 
the  praise  of  Epicurean  Pig-Eaters,  the  Crackling  must 
be  nicely  crisped  and  delicately  lightly  browned,  without 
being  either  blistered  or  burnt, 

*  Mods.   Grimoo  desigDaies  this  **  Animal  modeste,  etmemi  dm 

faatBt  et  le  Roi  des  Animaux  immondes,*'    Mai  (land,  in  page  758 

of  vol.  2,  of  bis  History  of  London,  reckons  ttiut  ttie  number  of  Suekin0 

Pig9  consumed  in  ihe  City  of  London^  in  tbe  yvar  1725,  amounted  to 

t'>2,O0O. 

t  Somtsdelieately  sensitive  Palates  desire  tbe  Cook  to  parboil  the  sage 
and  Onions,  (before  they  are  cut,)  to  soften  and  takeoff  the  riiwopss  of  their 
flavour ;  tbe  older  nnd  drier  tbe  Onion,  the  stronger  will  be  its  flavour ; 
Had  the  learned  Evelvk  orders  these  to  be  edulcorated,  by  gentlema- 
ceration.  .1 


ROASTING.  1 57 

A  small  three«)veek8  old  Pig  will  be  enough^  in  about  an 
hour  and  a  half.  ' 

tJefore  you  take  it  from  the  Fire,  cut  ofFthe  head,  and  part 
that  and  the  body  down  the  middle ;  chop  the  Brains  very 
fine  with  some  boiled  Sage  leaves,  and  mix  them  with  good 
Veal  gravy,  made  as  directed  in  (No.  192,)  or  BeefGrav^ 
(No.  329,)  or  what  runs  from  the  Pig  when  you  cut  its  head 
off.  Send  up  a  tureenful  of  Gravy  (No.  329,)  besides. 
Corrant  Sauce  is  still  a  favourite  with  some  of  the  Old 
School. 

Lay  your  Pig  back  to  back  in  the  dish,  with  one  half  of 
the  head  on  each  side,  and  the  Ears,  one  at  each  end,  which 
you  miist  take  care  to  make  nice  and  crisps  or  you  will  get 
scolded,  and  deservedly,  as  the  silly  fellow  was,  who  bought 
his  wife  a  pig  with  only  one  ear. 

When  you  cut  off  the  Pettitoes,  leave  the  skin  Ions:  round 
the  ends  of  the  legs.  When  you  first  lay  the  Pig  before  the 
fire,  rub  it  all  over  with  Fi-esh  Butter  or  Salad  Oil,  ten 
minutes  after,  and  the  skin  looks  dry— dredge  it  well  with 
flour  all  over — let  it  remain  on  an  hour — ^then  rub  it  off  with 
a  soft  cluth. 

N.  B.  A  Pig  is  a  very  troublesome  subject  lo  Roast,  most 
persons  have  them  Baked ;  serid  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of    ' 
butter,  and  beg  the  baker  to  baste  it  well. 

Turkey^  Turkey  Poults,  and  other  Poultry,  (No.  57.) 

A  Fowl,  and  a  Turkey,  require  the  same  management  at 
the  fire,  only  the  latter  will  take  longer  time. 

Many  a  Christmas  dinner  has  been  spoiled,  by  the  Turkey 
having  been  hunsj  up  in  a  cold  larder,  becoming  thoroughly 
firozen  i^^ack  Frost  has  ruined  the  reputation  of  many  a 
Turkey-Roaster  : — therefore,  in  very  cold  fVeather^  remember 
the  JVbte  in  the  5th  page  of  the  2d  chapter  of  the  Rudimem  s 
op  Cookery. 

Let  them  be  carefully  picked,  &c.  and  break  the  breast- 
bone (to  make  them  look  plump,)  twist  up  a  sheet  of  cl^ah 

*  An  aucient  culinary  Sage  snys — **  When  you  see  a  Pig*«  Eye^  drop 
out,  you  may  be  satisfied — be  has  bad  enough  of  the  Fire!''  This  is 
no  criterion  that  "the  body  of  the  Pig  is  done  enbugh,  but  arises  merely 
from  the  briskness  of  the  Fire  before  the  bead  of  it. 


158  ROASTINO. 

writing  paper,  light  k,  and  thoroughly  singe  the  Turkey  all 
over,  turning  it  ahout  over  the  flame. 

TuRKiSYs,  Fowls,  and  Capons,  have  a  much  better  ap- 
pearance, if,  instead  of  trussing  them  with  the  Legs  close  to- 
gether, and  the  f(*et  cut  off,  the  Legs  are  extended  on  each  side 
of  the  bird,  and  the  toes  only  cut  off,  with  a  skewer  through 
each  foot,  to  keep  them  at  a  proper  distance. 

Be  careful,  when  you  draw  it,  to  preserve  the  Liver,  and 
not  to  break  the  ChdUhag^  as  no  washing  will  take  off  the 
bitter  taste  it  gives,  where  it  once  touches. 

Prepare  .a  nice  clear  brisk  fire  for  it. 

Make  Stuffing  according  to  (No.  374,  or  376,)— stuff  it 
under  the  breast,  where  the  craw  was  taken  out,  and  make 
some  into  Balls,  and  boil  or  fry  them,  and  lay  them  round 
the  dish  ; — they  are  handy  to  help,  and  you  can  then  reserve 
some  of  the  inside  stuffing  to  eat  with  the  cold  Turkey,  Or  to 
enrich  a  Hash  (No.  533.) 

Score  the  Gizzard^  dip  it  into  the  Yolk  of  an  Egs:  or  melted 
batter,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne, 
put  it  under  one  Pinion,  and  the  Liver  under  the  other,  cover 
the  Liver  with  buttered  Paper,  to  prevent  it  from  gettii^ 
hardened  or  burnt. 

When  you  first  put  a  Turkey  down  to  roast,  dredge  it  with 
Flour,  then  put  about  an  ounce  of  Butter  into  a  basting  ladle, 
and  as  it  melts,  baste  the  bird  therewith. 

Keep  it  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  for  the  first  half  hour, 
that  it  may  warm  gradually,  then  put  it  nearer,  and  when  it  is 
plumped  up,  and  the  steam  draws  in  toward  the  fire,  it46 
nearly  enough,  then  dredge  it  lit^htly  with  flour,  and  put  a 
bit  of  butter  into  your  basting  Is^le,  and  as  it  melts,  oaste 
the  turkey  with  it ;  this  will  raise  a  finer  Froth  than  can  be 
produced  by  using  the  fat  out  of  the  pan. 

A  very  large  Turkey ^  will  require  about  three  hours,  to  roast 

it  thoroughly ;  a  middling  sized  one^  of  eight  or  ten  pounds 

(which  is  rar  nicer  eating  than  the  very  large  one,)  about 

.two  hours ;  a  Small  one  may  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Ta&KEY  Poults  are  of  various  sizes,  and  will  take  about 
an  hour  and  a  half,  they  should  be  trussed  with  their  le^ 
twisted  under  like  a  Duck,  and  t^lHdunder  the  wing  like 
a  Pheasant.  ^^^^^ 


nOASTINO.  T5d 

Fried  Pork  SAasAOBS  (No.  87,)  are  a  very  savonry  and 
fiivourite  accompaniment  to  either  roasted,  or  boiled  Poultry. 
A  Turkey,  thus  garnished,  is  called  **  an  Aldbrman  in 
Chains^ 

Sausage  meat  is  sometimes  u?<ed  as  stuffing*  instead  of  the 
ordinary  Forcemeat  (No.  376,)  &c. 

Mem. — If  you  wish  a  Turkey ,  especially  a  very  large  one^  to 
he  tender 9  never  dress  it  till  at  least  four  or  five  days  (in  cold 
weather,  eight  or  ten)  after  it  has  been  killed.  **  No  man 
who  understands  good  living,  will  say,  on  such  a  day  I  will 
eat  that  Turkey — but  will  hang  it  up  by  four  of  the  large  tail 
feathers,  and  when,  on  paying  his  morninj^  visit  to  the  Larder, 
he  finds  it  lying  upon  a  cloth,  prepared  to  receive  it  when  it 
falls,  that  day  let  it  be  cooked." 

Hen  Turkeys,  are  preferable  to  Cocks  for  whiteness  and 
tendemessy  and  the  small  fleshy  ones  with  black  legs,  are  most 
esteemed. 

Send  up  with  them.  Oyster  (No.  278,)  Beg  (No.  267,) 
Bread  (No.  221,)  and  plenty  of  Gravy  Sauce  (No.  329.)   To 

HASH  TURKBY  (No.  533.) 

iUisiii.^~Sonie  Epicures  are  very  fond  of  the  Gizzard  and  Rump 
peppered  and  salted,  and  broiled — see  (No.  538,)  ^*  how  ta 
dress  a  DsviL  with  verite^le  Sauce  d'Enfer/I** 

Canons  or  Fowls — (No.  58.) 

HiBt  be  killed  a  couple  inf  days  in  moderate,  and  more  in 
^Id  weather,  before  they  ate  dressed,  or  they  will  eat  tough : 
—a  good  criterion  of  the  ripeness  of  Poultry  for  the  spit,  is 
the  ease  with  which  yon  can  then  pull  out  the  feathers;  when 
a  Fowl  is  pktcked,  leave  a  few  to  help  you  to  ascertain  this. 

They  ire  managed  exacriy  in  the  same  manner,  and  sent  up 
with  the  same  sauces  as  a  Turkey,  only  they  require  propor- 
tiouably  less  time  at  the  Are : — 

A.  full-grown  ^vis-toed  Fowl,  about  an  hour  and  a 


h  MODERATE  SIZED  one,  an  hour ; 
A  Chicken  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 
Here  also,  Park  Sausages  fixed  (No.  87^)  are  in  general 
>&TOurite  iGOompaniment,  or  Turkey  Stuffing;  see  Force* 


^ 


160  ROASTING. 

meats  (Nos.  374,  5,  6,  iand  7;  put  in  plenty  of  it,  so  ad  to 
plump  out  the  fowl,  which  must  be  tied  closely  (both  at  the 
neck  and  rump,)  to  keep  in  the  stuffing. 

Some  cooks  put  the  Liver  of  the  Fowl  into  this  forcemeat, 
and  others  mince  it  and  pound  it,  and  rub  it  up  with  flour  aod 
melted  butter,  see  (ISo.  287.) 

When  the  Bird  is  stuffed  and  trussed,  score  the  Gizzard 
nicely,  dip  it  into  melted  butter,  let  it  drain,  and  then  seascxi 
it  with  Cayenne  and  Salt,  put  it  under  one  pinion,  and  the 
UvcT  under  the  other — to  prevent  it  getting  hardened  ot 
scorched,  cover  them  with  double  paper  buttered. 

Take  care  that  your  Roasted  poultry  be  well  browned ;  it 
is  as  indispensable,  that  roasted  poultry  should  have  a  rich 
Brown  complexion,  as  boiled  poultry  should  have  a  delicate 
White  one. 

Obs.  "  The  Art  of  fattening  Poultry  for  the  London  Jfor- 
ket,  is  a  considerable  branch  of  rural  Economy  in  some  con- 
venient situations,  and  consists  in  supplying  them  with  plenty 
of  healthy  food,  and  confining  them ;  and  Ducks  and  Greese 
must  be  prevented  from  goin^into  water,  which  prevents  them 
from  becoming  fat,  and  they  also  thereby  acquire  a  rancid  fishy 
taste. — They  are  put  into  a  dark  place,  and  crammed  with  a 
paste  made  of  Barley  Meal,  mutton  suet,  and  some  treacle  or 
coarse  Sugar  mixed  with  milk,  and  are  found  toj.  be  completely 
ripe  in  a  fortnight.  If  kept  longer,  the  fever  that  is  induced 
by  this  continued  state  of  repletion,  renders  them  red  and 
unsaleable,  and  frequently  kills  them*" — ^But  Exercise  is  as 
indispensable  to  health  of  Poultry  as  other  creatures,— with- 
out it,  the  fat  will  be  all  accumulated  in  the  cellular  mem- 
brane, instead  of  being  dispersed  through  its  system. — See 
MouBRAY,  on  Breeding  and  Fattening  Domestic  Poultry, 
12mo.  1819. 

Fowls  which  are  fattened  artificially,  are  by  some  Epicures 
preferred  to.  those  called  Barn-Door  ;{owls,  whom  we  have 
heard  say,  that  they  should  as  soon  think  of  ordering  a 
Bam-Doorfor  Dinner,  as  a  Bam-Door  Fowl. 

The  Age  of  Poultry,  makes  all  the  difference : — nothing  is 
tenderer  than  *  a  young  Chicken ;  few  things  are  tourer 
than  an  old  ^  Cock  or  Hen,  which  is  only  fit  to  make  Broth. 


BOASTIKG^  161 

The  meiidiaa  of  perfection  of  Poiiitry)  is  just  before  they 
have  come  to  their  full  growth^  before  they  Lave  begua  to 
harden. 

For  Sauces  (No.  305),  or  Liver  and  Parsley  (No*  287), 
md  those  ordered  in  the  last  receipt.     To  hash  it  (No.  533.^) 

Goose^ — (No.  59.) 

When  a  Goose  is  well  picked,  sieged,  dnd  cleaned,  make 
the  Stuffing  with  about  two  ounces  of  OnioD,*  and  half 
as  much  Green  Sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  adding  four 
ounces,  t.  e.  about  a  large  breukfast  cupful  of  stale  Bread 
crumbs,  a  bit  of  butter  aliout  as  big  as  a  walnut,  and  a  very 
little.  Pepper  and  Salt,  (to  this  some  Cooks  add  half  the 
Liverf ,  parboiling  it  first,)  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  two,  aud 


•  If  yoo  think  the  flavour  of  raw  Onions  too  strong,  cut  them  in 
tUoes,  ttnd  lay  Ihem  in  cold  wuter  for  a  couple  of  hours,  or  udd  as 
much  Apple  or  Potatoe  ns  you  have  of  Onion. 

t  Althotfcth  the  whole  is  ratber  too  luscious  for  the  linjrual  nerves  of 
the  good  folks  of  Great  Brituiu,  the  Livers  of  Poultry  are  considered  a 
very  high  relish  by  our  Continental  neighbours ;  and  the  following 
directions  how  to  procure  them  in  perfeotioo,  we  copy  from  the  Recipe 
of  *•  un  Vieil  Amateur  de  Banne  Chtre** 

**  The  Liver  of  a  Duck,  or  a  Goose,  who  has  submitted  to  the  rules 
and  orders  that  men  of  taste  have  invented  for  the  amusement  of  his 
sebaceous  glands,  is  a  5Ui)erlative  exquisite  to  the  piilnte  of  a  Parisian 
Epicure—  but,  alus !  the  poor  goose,  to  produce  this  darling  dainty,  must 
endure  sad  torments.  He  must  be  crammed  with  meat,  deprived  of 
driiiky  find  kept  constantly  before  a  hot  firt?-— a  roiseruble  martyrdom 
iodeed — and  would  be  truly  intolerable  if  his  reflections  on  the  conse- 
quences of  his  sufferings,  did  not  afl'ord  him  some  consolation — but  the 
gIoriou<i  prospect  of  the  delightful  growth  of  his  liver,  gives  him  courage 
and  ffU|>port;  and  when  he  thinks,  how  speedily  it  will  become  ulmo&t 
as  bie  us  bis  Body— ^how  high  it  will  rank  on  the  list  of  double  relishes 
—and  with  what  ecslacies  ii  will  be  euten  by  the  fanciers  "^e*  Foies 
^rBW,"be  submits  to  his  destiny  without  a  sigh. — The  famous  Strasbourg 
Pie$  are  made  with  Liv^fs  thus  prepared,  aud  sell  for  an  enormous 
price  '* 

However  incredible  this  ordtmnance  for  the  obe^itation  of  a  Goose's 
Liver  may  appear  at  first  sight— will  it  not  seem  equally  so  to  nfter 
ages,  that  in  this  enlightened  countr}-,  in  18)21,  we  encouraged  a  Folly 
as  much  greater—as  its  operation  was  more  universal  r— Will  it  be  be* 
lieved,that  it  was  then  considered  the  acnii  of  perli^ction  in  Beef  and 
Mutton,  that  it  should  be  so  oc^er-fattened,  that  n  [:eor  muu,  to  obtain 


1 


162  boasting;^ 

incorporatihg;  the  whole  well  together,  stuff  the  Goofe ;  tSti 
not  quite  fill  it,  but  leave  a  little  room  for  the  stoffijQg  tt 
swell.  Spit  it,  tie  it  on  the  spit  at  both  ends,  to  prevent  its 
s^iringiiig  round,  and  to  keep  the  stuffing  from  coming  out 
From  an  hour  and  a  half  to  an  hour  and  three-quarters^  will 
roast  a  fine  full-grown  Goose.  Send  up  Gravy,  and  Apple 
sauce  with  it,  see  (Nos.  300,  304,  329,  and  341,)  To  hash 
it,  see  (No.  530.) 
For  another  Stuffing  for  Geese,  see  (No.  378.) 

Obs.  **  Goose-feeding  in  the  vicinity  of  the  metropolis  is 
so  large  a  concern,  that  one  person  annually  feeds  for  market 
upwards  of  5000."  **  A  Goose  on  a  farm  in  Scotland  two 
years  since,  of  the  clearly  ascertained  age  of  89  years,  healthy 
and  vigorous,  was  killed  by  a  Sow  while  sitting  over  her 
Egps;  it  was  supposed  she  might  have  lived  many  years, 
and  her  fecundity  appeared  to  be  permanent.  Other  Geese 
have  been  proved  to  reach  the  age  of  70  years." — ^MoubraV 
oti  Poultry^  p.  40. 

It  appears  in  Dr.  Stark's  Experiments  on  Diet^  p.  110, 
that  *'  when  he  fed  upon  Roasted  Goosb,  he  was  more 
vigorous  both  in  Body  and  Mind,  than  with  any  other  diet." 

The  Goose  at  MichaelmaSy  is  as  famous,  in  the  moutfai 
of  the  million,  as  the  Minced  Pie  at  Christmas;  but,  for 
those  who  eat  with  delicacy,  it  is  by  that  time  too  M 
grovm. 

The  true  period,  when  the  Goose  is  in  its  highest  perfection, 
is  when  it  has  just  acquired  its  full  growth,  and  not  begun 
to  harden.  If  the  March  goose  is  insipid,  the  Michaelmas 
goose  is  rank;  the  fine  time,  is  between  both;  from  the 
second  week  in  June,  to  the  first  in  September ;  the  Leg 
is  not  the  most  tender  part  of  a  Goose.  See  Mock  Goose 
(No.  51.) 


one  pound  of  Meat  that  be  ooald  eat,— mast  parchase  another  wbich 
he  could  not,  unless  converted  into  a  Suet  Puddingy — moreover,  that  the 
biggest  Premiums  were  annually  awarded  to  those  who  produced  Sheep 
and  Oxen  in  tbe  mcMt  extreme  state  of  morbid  Obesity  ! !  / 

** ^ expensive  plans 

For  delupng  of  Dripping  pans.** 


r 


Green  6ibofe.-— (Na  60.) 

Gieese  are  called  (Shreen^  till  they  are  about  four  monthsr 
«H. 

The  only  difference  between  roasting  these,  and  a  fttll' 
grown  Goose,  consists  in  seasoning  it  with  pepper  and  salt 
instead  of  sage  and  onion,  and  roasting  it  for  K)rty  or  £fty 
minutes  only. 

Obs.  This  is  one  of  the  least  desirable  of  those  insipid 
premature  productions,  which  are  esteemed  dainties.  ' 

Dttdfc.— (No.61.) 

Mind  your  Diick  is  weU  cleaned,  and  wiped  out  with  a 
clean  cloui ;  for  the  Stuffing  take  an  ounce  of  Onion,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  ^een  Sage,  chop  them  very  fine,  and  mix 
them  with  two  ounces,  i.  e,  about  a  breakfast-cupful  of 
Bread  crumbs,  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a  Walnut,  a  very 
little  black  pepper  and  salt,  (some  obtuse  palates  may  require 
warming  with  a  little  Cayenne,  No.  404),  and  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  to  bind  it ;  mix  these  thoroughly  together,  and  put  into 
the  Duck.  For  another  Stuffing,  see  (No.  378.)  From 
half  4o  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  will  be  enough  to  roast  it, 
according  to  the  size :  contrive  to  have  the  Feet  deikatefy 
critp^  as  some  people  are  very  fond  of  them :— to  do  this 
nicely  you  must  have  a  sharp  fire.  For  Sauce,  Green  Pease 
(No.  134),  Bonne  Bouche  (No.  341),  Gravy  Sauce  (No.  329), 
and  Sage  and  Onion  Sauce  (No.  300.) 

To  Hash  or  Stew  Ducks,  see  (No.  530). 

N£.  If  you  think  the  raw  Onion  will  make  too  strong 
an  impression  upon  the  Palate,  parboil  it.-— Read  Ohs^  to 
(No.  59.) 

To  ensure  Ducks  being  tender — ^in  moderate  weather^  kill 
them  a  few  days  before  you  dress  them. 

Haunah  of  Venison. — (No.  63.) 

To  preserve  the  Fat,  make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  as 
much  as  will  cover  the  haunch,  wipe  it  with  a  dry  cloth  in 
every  part,  rub  a  large  sheet  of  paper  all  over  with  butter, 
and  cover  the  Venison  with  it,  then  roll  out  the  paste  about 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick^  lay  this  all  over  the  faX  side; 


I6t  BOABTrKQ*. 

and  cover  it  well,  with  three  or  four  sheets  of  strong  white 
paper,  and  tie  it  securely  on  with  packthread;  haye  a  strong 
close  fire,  and  baste  your  venison  as  soon  as  you  lay  it  down, 
to  roost  (to  prevent  the  paper  and  string  from  burning) ;  it 
must  be  well  basted  all  the  time. 

A  Buck  Haunch  generally  weighs  from  20  to  25  pounds, 
will  take  about  four  hours  and  a  half  roasting,  in  warm,  and 
kaiger  in  Cold  weather,— *a  Haunch,  of  from  12  to  1 6  pounds' 
will  be  done  in  about  three  or  three  and  a  half. 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  the  string  must  he 
est,  and  the  paste  carefully  taken  off;  now  baste  it  with 
butter,  dredge  it  lightly  with  Hour,  and  when  the  froth  rises, 
and  it  has  got  a  very  light  brown  colour,  garnish  the  knuckle-^ 
bone,  with  a  ruffle  of  cut  writing  paper,  and  send  it  up,  with 
good  strong  (but  wiseasoned)  Gravy  (No.  347),  in  one  boat, 
and  Currant-Jelly  Sauce  in  the  other,  or  Currant-Jelly  in  a 
side  plate  (not  melted) :  see,  for  Sauces  (Ncs.  344,  5,  6, 
and  7.)  Mem.  "  The  AldermarCs  Walk''  is  the  favourite 
part. 

Obs.  Buck  Venison  is  in  greatest  perfection  from  Mid- 
summer to  Michaelmas;  and  Doe,  from  November  to 
January., 

JVecA  and  Shoulder  of  VenUon — (No.  64.) 

Are  to  be  managed  in  the  same  way  as  the  haunch ;  .<»ly 
they  do  npt  require  the  coat  or  paste,  and  will  not  require  so 
much  time.  ■      ' 

The  best  way  to  spit  a  neck,  is  to  put  three  skeweis 
through,  and  put  the  spit  between  the  skewers  and  the 
■bones. 

J  faum— (No.  65.) 

Lflce  a  sticking  Pig,  should  be  dressed,  almost  as  soon 
as  killed.  When  very  young,  is  trussed,  stuflfed,  and  spitted 
the  same  way  as  a  Hare.  But  ihey  ar#  better  eating  when 
of  the  size  of  a  House  Lamb;  and  are  then  roasted  in 
quarters ;  the  hind  quarter  is  most  esteemed. 

They  must  be  put  down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and  either 
"hasted  all  the  time  they  are  roasting,  or  be  covered  witK 
sheets  of  fat  bacon ;  when  done,  baste  it  with  butter,  and 


HOASTXNG.  36S 

dfedge'  it  with  a  little  salt  and  flour,  till  you  midce  a  nioe 
firoth  on  it. 

N.  B.  We  advise  our  friends  to  half  roast  a  Fawn  as 
toon  as  they  receive  it,  and  then  make  a  Hash  of  it  like 
(No.  628.)  ' 

Send  up  Venison  sauce  with  it.  .  See  the  preoediog 
Receipt,  or  (No.  344),  &c; 

A  /Cid— (No.  65*.) 

A  young  sucking  Kid  is  very  »ood  eating;  to  have  it 
in  prime  condition,  the  Dam  should  be  kept  up,  and  wel^ 
fed,  &c. 

Roadt  it  like  a  Fawn  or  Hare. 

Uare.— (No.  66.) 

**  Inter  guadmpedes  gloria  prima  lefUS^^'^-^MARTiAU 

The  first  points  of  considei^tioh  arc.  How  old  is  the  Har^T 
and  how  Ions:  has  it  been  killed  }  When  yiDung,  it  is  easy  of 
digestion,  and  very  nourishing; — when  oldj  the  contrary  iji 
every  respect. 

To  ascertain  the  age,  examine  the  first  joint  of  the  fbtt 
foot;  you  will  find  a  small  knob,  if  it  is  a  Leveret,  which 
disappears  as  it  grows  older ;  then  examine  the  ears ;  if  they 
.tear  easily,  it  will  eat  tender;  if  they  are  tous:h,  so  will  he 
the  Hare,  which  we  advise  you  to  make  into  Soup  (No.  341,) 
or  STEW ;  or  jug  it,  see  (No.  523.) 

When  newly  killed,  the  body  is  stiff;  as  it  grows  stak,  it 
becomes  limp.  •  .  * 

As  soon  as  you  receive  a  Hare,  take  out  the  Liver,  parboil 
it,  and  keep  it  for  the  stuffins:;  some  are  very  fond  of  it  :-^ 
do  not  use  it,  if  it  be  not  quite  fresh  and  good.  Some  mince 
it,  and  send  it  up  as  a  garnish  in  little  hillocks  round  the 
dish.  Wipe  the  hare  quite  dry,"  rub  the  inside  with  pepper, 
and  hang  it  up  in  a  dry  cool  place. 
Paunch  ana  skin*  your  Hare,  wash  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  large 


•  *  This,  in  culinary  technicals,  is  called  casing  it, — upon  the  same 
principle — ^tbat  '*  eating,  drinking,  and  sleeping,*'  are  termed  non'nor 
turalt. 


166  noAamifG. 

pan  of  cold  water  four  or  five  hours,  chai^ng  the  water 't«l 
or  three  tiroes;  lay  it  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  dry  it  wM» 
then  tniss  it. 

To  make  the  Stuffing,  see  (No.  379  :)  do  not  make  il 
too  thin ;  it  should  he  of  cohesive  consistence :  if  it  is.  not 
sufficiently  stiff,  it  is  good  for  nothing:  pot  this  into  the 
helly,  sew  it  up  tight. 

Cut  the  neck  skin  to  let  the  blood  out^  or  it  will  never 
appear  to  he  done  enough,  spit  it,  and  haste  it  with 
Drippings,*  (or  the  juices  of  the  Back  will  be  dried  up 
bftfore  the  upper  joints  of  the  Legs  are  half  done,)  till  voa 
think  it  is  nearly  done,  which  a  middling  sized  Hare 
will  be  in  aibout  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  When  it  is  al- 
most roasted  enous^h,  put  a  little  bit  of  butter  into  your 
basting-ladle,  and  baste  it  with  this,  and  flour  it,  and  iroth 
it  nicely. 

Serve  it  with  good  Gravy  (No.  329,)  or  (No.  347,)  and 
Currant-jelly.  For  another  Stuffing,  see  receipt , (No.  .379.) 
Some  Cooks  cut  off  the  head  and  divide  it,  and  lay  one  half 
on  each  side  the  Hare. 

Cold  Roast  Hare  will  malse  excellent  Soup  (No.  241,) 
tiiopped  to  pieces,  and  stewed  in  three  quarts  of  water  for  a 
couple  of  bout's :  the  Stuffing  will  be  a  very  agreeable  sub-* 
stitute  for  Sweet  herbs  and  seasoning.  See  receipt  for  Harb 
Soup  (No.  241 ,)  Hashed  Hare  (No.  529,)  and  Mock  Habe, 
liext  Receipt. 

JlfocA  flare— (No.  66.*) 

Cut  out  the  Fillet  (t.  e.  the  inside  le  an)  of  a  Sirloin  of  B^f ; 
leaving  the  Fat  to  roast  with  the  jobt  Prepare  some  nice 
Stuffing,  as  directed  for  a  hare,  in  (No.  66,  or  379 ;)  put  this 


M 


,  ♦-  Mrs*  Charlotto  Maam,  in  her  "  Coptp^*^  Sffstem  of  Cooktt^, 
page  283,  says  she  has  **  tried  i^U  the  different  tbiogs  recomraendtid  to 
baste  a  hare  with,  and  never  found  any  tbinp^  so  good  as  small  Uer  ;'* 
others  order  milk  ;  Dripping  we  belieye  is  better  than  any  tbing.  To 
roast  a  Hare  nicely,  so  as  to  preserve  the  meat  on  the  Back,  dke.  Juicy 
and  nutritiye,  requires  as  much  attention  as  a  Sucking  Fig. 

Instead  of  washing,  n  "  grand  CuiHn^er**  say»,  it  is  much  better  to 
Vtpe  a  9are  with  a  thin  dry  doth*  as  so  |iiuoh  washing,  or  indeed  wash- 
ing at  aU,  takes  away  t)i«  flaTonr. 


m  tbe  beef*  and  toU  it  up  with  tape,  pat  a  skewer  through 
k^  Ukd  tie  tWt  0n  a  spit 

.  06«.-^If  the  Beef  is  of  prime  quaUtT^-^has  been  kept  till 
tboiougbly  tBiider,^*-«and  yau  jerve  with  it  the  acoompani- 
ments  that  usually  aiteud  roast  hare  (No.  329 — 344,  &c.) 
or  Stsw  it,  aod-sefre  it  with  a  lich  thickened  Sauce  gtr- 
•ished  with  Forametst  Ballsj  see  (No.  379,)  the  most  fasti- 
dious paiale  will  have  no  reason  to  regret  that  the  Game 
Season  is  over. 
To  make  this  into  IL\re  Soup,  see  (No.  241 J 

Rabbit.— (IHq.  67 ) 

U  your  iire  is  clear  a^id  sharp,  thirty  minutes  will  roast  i 
young,  and  forty  a  fiill  grown  Rabbit. 

When  you  lay  it  down  baste  it  with  butter,  and  dredge  itUghtly 
and  carefully  with  dour,  that  you  may  have  it  frothy,  and  o£z 
fine  light  brown.  Wbilethe  rabbit  is  roasting,  boil  its  Liven* 
with  some-  Parsley ;  when  tender,  chop  them  together,  ^nd 
put.  half  the  mixture  intq  some  melted  butter,  reserving  the 
pdier  half  for  Garnish,  divided  into  little  hillocks.  Cut  off 
thahi^ad,  and  lay  half  on  each  side  of  the  dish. 

06 J.: — ^A  fine  well  grown,  (but  young)  Warren  Rf^bbit^liept 
some  time  after  it  has  been  killed,  and  roasted  with  a  stuifii^ 
inits  belly,  eats  very  like  a  Hare,  to  the  nature  of  which  itap«- 
preaches  ^ — it  is  nice  nourishing  food  when  young,  but  hard 
^d  unwholesome  whep  cdd.  For  Sauces  (Nos.  2331 2S7, 
and  329.) 

Pheasant— (Ho.  68.) 

Requires  a  smart  fire,  but  not  a  fierce  one.  Thirty  minutes 
wili-fe«8t-a  yoting  bird ;  and  forty  or  fifty  a  full  grown  Phea- 
jsant.  Pidc^and  dmw  U,  cut  a  slit  in  tbie  back  of  the  neck, 
wiitake  out  the  ciaw,  but  don*t  cut  the  head  off;  wipe  the 
inside  of  the  bird  with  a  clean  cloth,  twist  the  legs  close  to 
the  body,  leave  the  feet  on,  but  cut  the  toes  off,  don't  turn 
the  head  under  the  wii^»  hut  truss  it  like  a  fowl,— it  is  much 
easier  to  cAive :  baste  it,  butter  and  froth  it,  and  prepare  sauce 
for  it  (Nos.  321,  and  329 :)  see  the  instructions  in  receipts  to 
roast  fowls  ?^nd  turkeys  (No.  57  and  58.) 


*  Iiirer  ^aace.  No.  287  and  2S9.^ 


1 


1B8  .  HOASTIXC^. 

'  Ohs.-^We  believe  the  rarity  of  this  biril  is  its  Best  reborn^ 
mendation ;  and  the  character  given  it  by  an  ingenioni 
French  author,  is  just  as  good  as  it  {Reserves.  *^  Its  flesh  is 
naturally  tough,  and  owes  all  its  tenderness  and  succulence 
to  the  lon^  time  it  is  kept,  before  it  is  cooked  ;*'  until  it  is 
"  bden  morttfiiey^^  it  is  uneatable.*  Therefore,  instead  of  **sas 
per  col,''  suspend  it  by  one  of  the  long  tail-feathers,  and  the 
Fheasant^s  falling  from  it,  is  the  criterion  of  its  ripeness  and 
readiness  for  the  spit. 

Our  Prefsident  of  the  Committee  of  Taste,  (who  is  indefk- 
tigahle  in  his  endeavours  to  improve  the  Health,  as  well  ai 
promote  the  Etijoyment  of  his  fellow  Students  in  the  Scbod 
of  Good  Living,  and  to  whom  the  Epicure,  the  Economist, 
and.  the  Valetudinarian,  are  equally  indebted  for  his  careltl 
revision  of  this  work,  and  especially  for  introducine  that  sa- 
lutary maxim  in'o  the  Kitchen, — that  '*  the  Salubrious  is 
ever  a  superior  consideration  to  the  Savoury,' *  and  indeed, 
that  the  Rational  Epicure  only  relishes  the  latter,  when  en- 
tirely subordinate  to  the  former,)  has  su2:gested  to  us,  that 
the  detachment  of  the  Feather  cannot  take  place  until  the 
body  of  the  Bird  has  advanced  more  than  one  degree  beyond 
the  state  of  wholesome  haufgo'At^  and  become  •*  trap  morii' 
fiie  ;'•  and  that  to  enjoy  this  Game  in  perfection,  you  must 
have  a  brace  of  birds  killed  the  same  day;  these  are  to  be 
put  in  suspense,  as  above  directed, — and  when  one  of  them 
cfrop5,— the  hour  is  come  that  the  spit  should  be  introduced 
to  his  companion : — : 

**  JJltrd,  citrdqtie  nequit  consistere  rectum,^*  . 


*  ^*  They  arc  only  fit  to  be  eatRD  when  the  Blood  runs  from  the  Btt)| 
which  is  commoDly  about  6  or  7  days  after  tliey  have  been  killed ; 
otherwise  jt  will  have  no  more  savour  than  a  common  fowL^' —  tide's 
Cookery,  8vo.  J 8 19,  jwige  216. 

**  Gastronomers,  who  have  any  sort  of  aversion  to  a  peculiar  taste  io 
Game  properly  kept,  bad  better  abstain  from  this  bird ^sinoe  it  is  worse 
4han  a  common  fowl,  if  not  waited  lor  tiU  it  acqounes  ihe/ulnet  itoi^t 
to  have.  Whole  republics  of  Maggots  have  often  been  found  rioting 
under  the  win^rs  of  Pheajjants ;  but  being  radical^  dispersed,  and  the 
birds  properly  washed  with  Vinegar,  every  thing  went  right,  and  eveiy 
l^est,  unconscious  of  the  culinary  ablutions,  enjoyed  the  excellent  fla- 
vour of  the  Pbasian  birds."-*  Ta^e^a  Cibaria,  j^,  66, 


ROASTmo.  169 

N»B.  Sportsmen  will  find  the  following  rule  of  very  great 
advantage  to  themselves  and  their  Cooks, — ^to  order  their 
g^me-keepers  (and  dbstrvethe  same  themselves)  to  cut  off  a 
Claw  of  each  Bird  they  kill,  denoting 


the  day  of  the  week,   thus        ^M  }i}^     ^<^  t^'C 


Cook  should  be  particular  in  keeping  each  week's  killing  se- 
parate. The  claws  should  not  be  cut  off  when  the  Bird  is 
dressed  for  Table,  as  they  serve  to  show  the  Company  when 
it  was  killecl,  and  consequently  how  long  it  has  been  kept. 

.  Mock  Phe(utant—(No.  69.) . 

If  you  have  only  one  pheasant,  and  wish  for  a  companion 
for  it,  get  a  fine  young  fowl,  of  as  near  as  may  be  the  same 
size  as  the  bird  to  be  matched,  and  make  game  of  it  by  truss- 
ing it  like  the  pheasant,  and  dressing:  it  according  to  the 
above  directions.  Few  persons  will  discover  the  pheasant 
from  the  fowl,  especially  if  the  latter  has  been  kept  four  or 
five  days. 

The  peculiar  flavour  of  the  Pheasant  (like  that  of  other 
game)  is  principally  acquired  by  long  keeping. 

Guinea  and  Pea  Fowls* — (No.  69.*) 
Are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  Pheasants.  :  ^ 

Partridges. — (No.  70.) 

Are  cleaned  and  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as  a  phea- 
sant, (but  the  ridiculous  custom  of  tucking  the  legs  into  each 
other,  makes  them  very  troublesome  to  carve) ;  the  breast  is 
so  plump,  it  will  require  almost  as  much  roasting :  send  up 
witn  them  rice  sauce  (No.  321*),  0  bread  sauce  (No.  321), 
and  good  gravy  (No.  329.)  '^ 

*^*  If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  longer  than  you  think 
they  will  keep' good  undressed^  half  roast  thenif  they  will  keep 
tvDO  or  three  days  longer ,  or  make  a  Pie  of  them. 

I 


170  BOASTINO. 

Black  Cock  (No.  71),  Moor  Game  -(No.  72),   and   Gv^ 

(No.  73,) 
Are^U  to  be  dressed  like  partridges;  the  Black  Cock  will 
take  as  much  as  a  pheasant,  and  Moor  Qame  and  Grouse^las 
the  partridge.     Send  up  with  them  Currant-jelly  and  fri^ 
Bread  crumbs  (No.  320). 

wad  Duch.—[^o.  74.) 

For  roasting  a  Wild  Duck,  you  must  have  a  clear  brisk 
fire,  and  a  hot  spit ;  it  must  be  browned  upon  the  outside, 
without  being  sodden  within.  To  have  it  well  frothed,  and. 
full  of  giUvy,  is  the  nicety.  Prepare  the  fire,  by  stirring  and 
raking  it  just  before  the  bird  is  laid  down,  and  fifteen  or 
twenty,  minutes  will  do  it  in  the  fashionable  way ;  but  if  yon 
like  it  a  little  more  done,  allow  it  a  few  minutes  longer ;  if  it 
is  too  much  it  will  lose  its  flavour. 

For  the  sauce,  see  (No.  338)  and  (No.  62). 

Widgeons  anrfTca^ (No.  75.) 

Are  dressed  exactly  as  the  wild  duck ;  only  that  less  time 
is  requisite  for  a  Widgeon,  and  still  less  for  a  Teaf. 

^ToocfcocX:.— (No.  76.) 

Woodcocks  should  not  be  drawn,  as  the  trail  is  by  the 
Lovers  of  "  haut-goUt "  considered  a  **  Bonne  Bouche;^'  truss 
their  legs  close  to  the  Body,  and  run  an  Iron  skewer  throi]^ 
each  thigh  dose  to  the  Body,  and  tie  them  on  a  smalt  bird 
spit,  put  them  to  roast  at  a  clear  fire ;  cut  as  many  slices  of 
bread  as  you  have  birds,  toast  or  fry  them  a  delicate  brown, 
and  lay  them  in  the  dripping-pan  under  the  birds  to  catch 
the  Trail  ;*  baste-  them  with  butter,  and  froth  them  with 


-M- 


ft 


This  bird  has  so  insinuated  itself  into  the  favour  of  refined gvW' 
mands,  that  they  pay  it  the  same  honours  as  the  g^rand  Lama,  makiof 
a  Ragout  of  its  Excrements,  and  devouring  them  with  ecstasy ."-—ni^ 
Almanack  des  Gourmands,  vol.  i.  p.  56. 

Thirt  BsEercise  produces  strength  and  firmness  of  fibre,  is  fiaoelleBAy 
well  exemplified  in  the  Woodcock  and  the  Partridge.— The  former  fli» 
mos* — the  letter  walks-^the  wing  of  the  Woodcock  is  always  Teiy 
tough,— of  the  Partridge  very  tender :  hence  the  old  doggiel  distidi^— 
'*  If  the  Partridge  had  but  the  Woodcoek*»  thQ^h, 
"  He'd  be  the  best  Bud  that  e'er  doth  fly.'' 
The  Breast  of  all  Birds  is  the  mast  juipy  and  nutritions  part 


BOASTING.  171 

Qour ;  lay  the  toast  on  ahot  dish,  and  the  birds  on  the  toast 
pour  some  good  beef  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  send  some  up 
in  a  boat,  see  Obs.  to  (No.  329)  :  twenty  or  thirty  minutes 
win  roast  them.     Garnish  with«slices  of  lemon. 

Obs. — ^Some  Epicures  like  this  bird  very  much  under- 
done, and  direct  that — a  Woodcock  should  be  just  introduced 
to  the  Cook,  for  her  to  show  it  the  Fire,  and  then  send  it  up 
to  Table. 

Snipes,— (^o.  77.) 

mStt  little  from  Woodcocks,  unless  in  size ;  they  are  to 
be  dressed  in  the  same  way,  but  require  about  five  minutes 
less  time  to  roast  them. 

For  Sauce,  see  (No.  338). 

.   Pigeons. — (No.  78.) 

When  the  pigeons  are  ready  for  roasting,  if  you  are  de- 
sired to  stuff  them,  chop  some  green  parsley  very  fine,  the 
liver,  and  a  bit  of  butter  together,  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  or  with  the  stuffing  ordered  for  a  fillet  of  veal  (No.  374), 
or  (No.  375),  and  fill  the  belly  of  each  bird  with  it.  They 
will  be  enough  in  about  twenty  or ,  thirty  minutes :  send  up 
Parsley  and  Butter  (No.  261,)  in  the  dish  under  them,  and 
some  in  a  boat,  and  garnish  with  crisp  Parsley  (No.  318), 
or  Fried  Bread  Crumbs  (No.  320),  or  Bread  Sauce 
(No.  321),  or  Gravy  (No.  329). 

Ohs. — When  Pigeons  are  fresh,  they  have  their  full  relish ; 
but  it  goes  entirely  ofi*  with  a  very  little  keeping ;  nor  is  it 
any  way  ao  well  preserved,  as  by  Roasting  them, — when 
they  are  put  into  a  Pie,  they  are  generally  baked  to  rags,  and 
taste  more  of  pepper  and  salt  than  any  thing  else. 

A  little  melted  butter  may  be  put  into  the  dish  with  them, 
and  the  gravy  that  runs  from  them  will  mix  with  it  into  fine 
sauce.  Pigeons  are  in  the  greatest  perfection  from  Mid- 
summer  to  Michaelmas,  there  is  then  the  most  plentiful  and 
best  food  for  them;  and  their  finest  growth  is  just  when  they 
are  full  feathered.  When  they  are  in  the  pen-feathers,  they 
are  flabby;  when  they  are  full  grown,  and  have  flown  some 
time,  they  are  tough.  Cfame  and  Poultry  are  best  when  they 
have  just  done  growing^  t.  «•  as  soon  as  Nature  has  perfected 
her  work. 

i2 


172  ROASTING. 

This  was  the  secret  of  Solomon^  the  famous  Pigeon-feeder 
of  Turnham  Green,  who  is  celebrated  by  the  poet  Gay,  when 
he  says, 

"  That  Turnham  Green,  which  dainty  pigeons  fed. 
But  feeds  no  more,  for  SoUmon  is  dead." 

Larks,  and  other  smaU  Birds. — (No.  80.) 

These  delicate  little'birds  are  in  high  season  in  ^fovemher. 
When  they  are  picked,  gutted,  and  cleaned,  truss  them ; 
brush  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  roll  them  in 
bread  crumbs ;  spit  them  on  a  lark  spit,  and  tie  that  on  to  a 
larger  spit,  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  at  a  quick  fire  will  be  enough; 
baste  them  with  fresh  butter  while  they  are  roasting,  and 
sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs  till  they  are  well  covered 
with  them. 

•  For  the  Sauce,  fry  some  grated  bread  in  clarified  butter, 
see  (No.  259),  and  set  it  to  drain  before  the  fire,  that  it  may 
harden :  serve  the  crumbs  under  the  Larks  when  you  dish 
them,  and  garnish  them  with  slices  of  Lemon. 

Wheat^Ears.—(^o.  81.) 
Are  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  Larks. 

Lobster.— \^o.%2.) 

See  Receipt  for  boiling  (No.  176.) 
We  give  no  Receipt  for  roasting  Lobster,  Tongue,  &c. 
being  of  opinion  with  Dr.  King,  who  says, 

**  By  Roasting  that  which  our  forefathers  Boiled, 
And  boiling  what  they  roastedj  much  is  spoiled." 


COOK'S  ORACLE. 


FRYING. 


To  Clarify  Drippi7igs.—(^o.  83.) 

Put  your  dripping  into  a  dean  saucepan  over  a  stove  or 
-slow  fire  ;  when  it  is  just  going  to  boil,  skim  it  well,  let  it 
boil}  and  then  let  it  stand  till  it  is  a  little  cooled,  then  poisr 
'  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  pan. 

Obs. — ^Well  cleansed  Drippings^*  and  the    fat   iS^m- 

r -    — ' m- 

*  Mrs.  Mslrob,  io  her  Economical  Cookery,  page  7,  tells  us,  sbe 
-liasasoertnned  tiom  actual  experiments,  that  "  the  Drippings  of  Roast 
Meat,  oomhuiied  with  Wheat,  Flour,  Oatmeal,  Barley,  Pease,  or  Pota- 
;toeStar6h,  will  make  delicidus  Soup,  agieeabje  and  savoury  to  the  Pa- 
)ate»  and  nutritive  and  servioeahle  to  the  Stomach,  and  that  while  a  joint 
is  toasting,  good  Soup  may  be  made  from  the  drippings  of  the  Fat, 
which  is  the  Essence  JfMeat,  as  seeds  are  of  Vegetables,  and  impreg- 
nates Soop  with  the  identie4il  taats  o/ Meaty 
.    ^  Writer^  on  Cookery  give  strict  directions  to  carefully  skim  off" the 
Fat,  and  in  the  next  sentence  order  Butter  (a  much  more  expensive 
article)  to  be  added — instead  of  iliis,  wb^n  any  Fat  appears  at  the  top 
of  your  Soup  or  Stew,  do  not  skim  it  off,  but  unite  it  with  the  broth 
.by  means  of  the  vegetable  mucilages.  Flour,  Oatmeal,  Ground  Barley, 
or  Potatoe  Starch ;  when  suspended,  the  l^up  is  equally  agreeable  y> 
.  the  palate,  and  nutritive  to  the  Stomach,''  <bc. 

^  Cooks  bestow  a  great  deal  of  pains  to  make  Gravies ;  they  stew 
and  boil  lean  meat  for  hours,  and  after  all  their  Cookery,  tastes  more 
of  Pepper  and  Salt  than  any  thing  eise.^-If  they  would  add  the  bulk  of 
a  chesnut  of  solid  Fat  to  a  common-sized  sauoe-boaiful  of  Gravy,  It 
will  give  it  more  sapidity  than  twenty  hours  stewing  lean  meat  would, 
unless  a  larger  quantity  was  used  than  is  warranted  by  the  rules  of  fru* 
gality."    See  (Nos.  205  and  229). 

*'  The  experiments  of  Dr.  Stark  on  the  nourishing  powers  of  differ- 
ent substances,  go  very  far  to  prove  that  three  ounces  of  the  Fat  of 
Boiled  Beef  are  equal  to  a  pound  of  the  Lean.    Dr,  Pages,  the  travel* 


174  FRYING. 

mings*  of  the  Broth  pot,  when  fresh  and  sweet,  will  baste 
every  thing  as  well  as  Butter,  except  game  and  poultry,  and 
should  supply  the  place  of  Butter  for  common  fries,  &c.  for 
which  they  are  equal  to  lard,  especially  if  you  repeat  the  cla- 
rifyine  twice  over. 

N.  B«  If  you  keep  it  in  a  cool  place,  you  may  preverve  it 
a  fortnight  in  summer,  and  longer  in  winter.  When  you 
have  done  Frying,  let  the  dripping  stand  a  few  minutes  to 
settle,  and  then  pour  it  througti  a  sieve  into  a  clean  Basin  or 
stone  Pan :  and  it  will  do  a  second  and  a  third  time  as  well 
as  it  did  the  first,— only  the  Fat  you  have  fried  Fish  in  mask 
not  be  used  for  any  other  purpose. 

To  clarify  Suet  to  fry  with. — (No,  84^) 

Cut  Beef  or  Mutton  suet  into  thin  slices,  pick  oat  all  the 
veins  and  skins,  &c.  put  it  into  a  thick  and  well  tinned  sauce- 
pah,  and  set  it  over  a  very  slow  kove^  or  in  an  ov^,  till  it  is 
melted;  you  must  not  hurry  it, — ^if  not  done,  very  slowly  it 
will  acquire  a  burnt  taste,  which  you  cannot  get  rid  of  ;rr 
then  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean  brown  pan. 
When  quite  cold,  tie  a  paper  over  it  and  keep  it  for  usCi^ 
Hog's  lard  is  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Obs, — The  waste  occasioned  by  the  present  absurd  fashion 

'  of  over-feeding  Cattle  till  the  Fat  is  nearly  equal  to  tlie  lean, 

.may,  by  good  management,  be  in  some  measure  prevented, 

•^-by  cutting  off  the  superfluous  part,  and  preparing  it  as 

above,  or  by  making  it  into  Puddincp,  see  (Nos.  551  and 

554),  or  Soup  (No.  229). 

I    W ■■>        II  I  I  I       ■ ■     I        <■        »i      WiniH      II     kt^ [I  ^a^^— ^M*— ^^ 

ler^  confintts  this  opinion,  *  Being  obliged/  rays  be,  ■*  during  tbe  jour- 
ney from  North  to  South  America  by  land,  to  live  solely  on  Animal 
food,  I  experienced  the  truth  of  what  is  observed  by  Hunters,  who  lite 
solely  on  Animal  food^  viz.  that  besides  their  receiving  little  nourish- 
ment from  tbe  leaner  parts  of  it,  it  soon  becomes  offensive  to  the  Taste, 
wbereas  the  Fat  is  both  more  nutritive,  and  continues  to  be  agreeable 
to  the  Palate.  To  many  Stomachs  Fat  is  unpleasant  and  indigestible, 
especially  when  converted  into  oil  by  heat ;  this  may  be  easily  prc- 
irented  by  the  simple  process  of  combining  the  Fat  completely  yiifh 
yxviiett  by  the  intervention  of  vegetable  mucilage,  as  in  melting  Butter, 
by  means  of  flour,  the  Butter  and  water  are  united  into  a  homogenous 
fiatd." — Prom  Practical  Economy,  by  a  Phyaicktn,  Callow,  1801. 
•  See  Note  at  foot  of  (No.  201 .) 


FRYING.  175 

SfcaiU.— (No,  85.) 

Cut  the  steaks  rather  thinner  than  for  broiting.  Put  some 
Butter  ox  (No.  83)  into  an  iron  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is 
hot,  lay  in  the  steaks,  and  keep  turning  them  till  they  are 
done  enough.  For  Sauce,  see  (No.  356),  and  for  the  ac- 
C3inpaninQents  (No.  94). 

Ob*. — Unless  the  Fire  be  prepared  on  purpose,  we  like 
this  way  of  cooking  them ;  the  gravy  is  preserved ;  and  the 
meat  is  more  equally  dressed,  and  more  evenly  browned  : 
which  makes  it  more  relishing,  and  invites  the  eye  to  encou- 
rage the  Appetite. 

Beefsteaks  and  Ontoiw.— (No.  86.)     See  also  (No.  501.) 

Fry  the  Steaks  according  to  the  directions  given  in  the 
preceding  receipt ;  and  have  ready  for  them  some  Onions 
prepared  as  directed  in  (No.  299). 

For  Steioed  Rump  Steaks,  see  (Nos.  500  and  501). 

Sausages— (No.  87.^ 

Are  best  when  qmte  fr&h  made—Put  a  bit  of  Butter,  or 
Dripping  (No.  83),  into  a  clean  Frying-pan ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
melted  (before  it  gets  hot)  put  in  the  Sausages,  and  shake 
the  pan  for  a  minute,  and  keep  turning  them,  (be  careful  not 
to  break  or  prick  them  in  so  doing),  fry  them  over  a  very 
slow  fire,  till  they  are  nicely  browned  on  all  sides, — ^when 
they  are  done,  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve,  placed  before  the 
fire  for  a  couple  of  minutes  to  drain  the  fat  from  them.    The 

secret  of  frying  Sausages,  is,  to  let  them  get  hot  very  gradu^ 
ally,  they  then  will  not  burst,  if  they  are  not  stale. 

The  common  practice  to  prevent  them  bursting,  is  to  prick 

them  with  a  fork,,  but  this  lets  the  gravy  out. 

You  may  froth  them  by  rubbing  them  with  cold  fresh 

butter,  and  lightly  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  put  them  in 

a  cheese-toaster  or  Dutch-oven  for  a  minute. 

Some  over-economical  Cooks,  insist  that  no  butter  or  lard, 

&c.  is  required;  their  own  fat  being  sufficient  to  fry  them; 

^we  hav^  tried  it^-^the  Sausages  were  partially  scorched, 

and  had  that  pye-bald  appearance,  that  all  fried  things  have 

when  sufficient  fat  is  not  allowed 


176  FRYING, 

Obs. — ^Poached  Eggs  (No.  548),  Pease-pudding  (No.  555), 
and  mashed  Potatoes  (No.  106),  are  agreeable  aceompam- 
ments  to  Sav^sages,  and  Sausages  are  as  welcome  with  Boiled 
or  Roasted  Poultry  or  Veal  : — or  Boiled  Tripe  (No,  18); 
so  are  ready  dressed  German  Sausages,  see  Mem.  to  (No. 
13),  and  a  convenient,  easily  digestible,  and  invigorating 
food  for  the  aged,  and  those  whose  teeth  are  defective,  as  is 
also  (No.  503).  For  Sauce  (No;  356),  to  make  Mustard 
(Nos.  369  and  70.) 

N.B.  Sausages,  when  finely  chopped,  are  a  delicate 
*.'  Bonne  Bouche;^^  and  require  very  little  assistance  from  the 
Teeth,  to  render  them  quite  ready  for  the  Stomach. 

Sweetbreads  full  dressed. — (No.  88.) 

Parboil  them  and  let  them  get  cold,  then  cut  them  in 
pieces,  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick — dip  them  iq 
the  yolk  of  an  Egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  (some  add 
Spice,  Lemon-peel,  and  Sweet  herbs) ;  put  some  clean  drip-, 
ping  (No.  83),  into  a  frying-pan ;  when  it  boils,  put  in  the 
Sweetbreads,  and  fry  them  a  fine  brown.  For  Garnish,  criffl) 
Parsley;  and  for  Sauce,  Mushroom  catsup  and  melted  butter, 
or  Anchovy  sauce,  or  (No.  356),  (No.  343),  or  (No.  343*), 
or  3acon  or  Ham  as  (No.  526),  and  (No.  527). 

Sweetbreads  plain. — (No.  89.) 

Parboil  and  slice  them  as  before,  dry  them  on  a  clean 
cloth, — flour  them,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  browm ;  take  caie 
to  drain  the  fat  well  from  them,  and  garnish  them  with  slices 
of  lemon,  and  sprigs  of  Chervil  or  Parsley,  or  crisp  Parsley, 
(No.  31 J3);  For  sauce  (No.  356),  or  (No.  307),  and  Slices oC 
Ham  or  Bacon,  as  (No.  526)  or  (No.  527),  or  Forcemeat 
Balls  made  as  (No.  375  and  378). 

%♦  Take  care  to  have  a  fresh  Sweetbread  i-^^  spoils 
sooner  than  almost  any  thing^  therefore  should  be  parboiled 
as  soon  as  it  comes  in.  This  is  called  blanching^  tyr  settina 
it :  Mutton  Kidneys  (No.  95)  are  sometimes  broiled  and  sent 
u   with  Sweetbreads. 

Veal  Cutlets.— \^o.  90)  and  (No.  521 .) 
Let  your  cutlets  be  about  half  an  iadi  thick^  trim  them. 


FRYING*  177 

and  flatten  them  with  a  cleaver ;  you  may  fry  them  in  fresh 
butter,  or  good  drippings  (No.  83) ;  when  brown  on  one  side» 
turn  them  and  do  the  otner ;  if  the  fire  is  very  fierce,  they 
must  chang^  sides  oftener.     The  time  they  will  take,  depencb 
on  the  thickness  of  the  Cutlet  and  the  heat  of  the  fire ;  half 
an  inch  thick  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes.    Make  some 
Gravy,  by  putting  the  trimmings  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
soft  water,  an  onion,  a  roll  of  lemon  peel,  ablade  of  mace, 
^  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley,  and  abay  leaf ;  stew  over  a  slow 
fire  an  hour,  then  stoin  it ;  put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  ;  as  soon  as  it.  is  melted,  mix  with  it  as  much  floui^  as 
will  dry  it  up,  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
add  the  gravy  by  degrees  till  it  is  all  mixed,  boil  it  for  five 
minutes,  and  strain  it  through  a  tammis  sieve,  and  put  it  to 
the  cutlets  i  you  Ynaj^add  some  Browning  (No.  322),  Musfar 
room  (No.  439),  or  Walput  Catsup,  or  Lemon  Pickle,  &c. ; 
see  also  Sauces  {No.  343)^  and  (No.  348). 

Or, 

Cut  the  Veal  into  pieces  about  as  big  as  a  crown  piece, 
beat  them  with  a  cleaver,  dip  them  in  egg  beat  up  with  a 
little  salt,,  and.  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs ;  fry  them  a  light 
brown  in  boiling  lard ;  serve  under  them  some  good  Gravy 
or  Mushroom  Sauce  (No.  307),  which  may  be  made  in  five 
minutes.  Garnish  with JSlioes  of  Ham  or  Kashers  of  Bacon 
(Nos.  526  and  527),  or  Pork  Sausages  (No.  87.) 

Obs, — ^V;eal  forcemeat  oi*  stuffing  (Nos.  374,  375,  and 
'378),  Pork  Sausages  (No.  87),  Rashers  of  Bacon  (Nos.  526 
^d  527),  are  very  relishing  accompaniments,  fided  and 
sent  up  in  the  form  of  Balls,  or  Cakes,  and  laid  round  as  a 
Garnish. 

Lamby  or  Mutton  Chops — (No.  92.) 

Are  dressed  in  the  same  way,  and  garnished  with  crisp 
parsley  (No.  318),  and  slices  of  lemon. 

If  they  are  bread  crumbed  and  covered  with  buttered 
writing  paper,  and  then  broiled,  they  are  called  **  Maintenon 

i5 


178  FRYIIfG. 

Fork  CAop#.— (No.  93.) 

Cut  the  Ch^ps  aboirt  haOif  an  inch  thick ;  7Wm  them  neaily 
(few  Cooks  have  any  idea  how  much  credit  they  get  by 
this) ;  put  a  ffying«paQ  chi  the  fire,  with  a  bit  of  butter ;  as 
soon  as  it  is  h(^»  put  in  your  chops,  turning  them  often  till 
brown  all  over,  they  will  be  enough  in  about  fifteen  minutes; 
take  one  upon  at  plate  and  try  it ;  if  done,  season  it  with  a  little 
finely  minced!  onioo^  powdsred  Sage,  and  pepper  and  salt 
For  Qrofcy  and  Stmce^  see  (No.  300,  304»  341,  and  356.) 

06«.^-i  Httle  powdered  Sage,  &c.,  str«wed  ovear  them, 
will  give  idaem  a  luce  relish,  or  th^  Savoury  Powder  in 
(No.  61),  or  Forcemeat  Sausages  like  (No.  378.ji 

Do  not  have  them  cut  too  thick,  about  three  Chgps  to  ap 
inch  aiul  ai  iquarter, — ^trt^i  them  neatly,  beat  them  flat,  hav^ 
ready  .some  sweet  herbfi,  or  Sage  and  Oni^ii  chopped  fisfif 
put  them  in  a  Stewpan  withi  a  bit  of  BxnUgUi  alxHit  as  big  as  a 
walnut,  let  them  have  one  fry,  beat  two  eggs  on  a  plate  with 
a  little  salt,  add  to  them  the  herbs,  mix  it  all  well  together, 
dip  the  chops  in  one  at  a  time  all  ov^,  and  then  with  bread- 
crumbs, fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  they  are  a  Hght 
brown. 

06*.— Veal,  Lamb,  oi:  Mutton  Chops,  are  very  good 
dressed  in  like  manner. 

To  fiy  Fish,  see  (No.  145.) 

N.B.  To  Fry  Eggs  and  Omelettes,  and  oilier  things, 
s^e  (No.  545),  and  the  Index. 


THB 

COOK'S  ORACLE. 


BROILING.  ■ 

ChopsQrSteah*.^(So  9A.) 

To  Stbvt  them,  see  (No.  500),-— <lxtto  with  Otiion^ 
(No.  601.) 

Those  who  are  nice  ahoot  Steaks,  never  attempi  to  Jutve 
them^  tixcepl  m  weather  which  permits  the  meeUtohe  hung 
till  it  «<  teiufer^-and  give  the  Batcher  sooie  days'  nouce  of 
their  wish  lor  them. 

If»  firiendly  Reader,  you  wish  to  entertain  your  Month 
with  a  SHperUtive  B^f  Steaks  you  must  have  the  inside  of  the 
Sirloin  cut  into  Steaks.  The  next  hest  Steaks  are  those  ent 
ibam  U^  middle  of  a  Rinnp,  that  has  heen  killed  at  least  four 
days  in  moderate  weather, — ^much  longer  in  cold  weather- 
when  they  can  he  cut  about  six  inches  long,  four  inches 
wide,  and  half  an  inch  thick — do  not  bsat  them,  which  vul- 
gar trkk-^-hreaks  the  cdk  in  which  the  Gravy  of  the  meat 
is  ootttained,  and  it  becomes  dry  and  tasteless* 

N.  B.  If  your  Butcher  sends  Steaks  which  are  not  Tender^ 
we  do  not  insist  that  you  should  object  to  let  him  be  Beaten. 

•  The  season  for  these  is  from  the  29th  of  September  to  the  25th  of 
March  ;  to  enwire  their  being  tender  when  out  of  season,  stew  thbm 
as  in  Rect»ipt  (No.  500.) 

TO  WARM   UP  GOLD   BUMP  8TBAK». 

Lay  thera  in  a  stewpan,  with  one  large  Onion  cut  in  qoarten,  six 
berries  of  AlUpioe,  tiie  same  of  Blaclc  Pepper,  cover  the  Steate  with 
boiling  water,  let  them  stew  gentiy  one  hour,  thicken  the  liquor  with 
Fieur  und  Boiler  nMed  together  on  a  plate ;  if  a  pint  of  gravj,  about 
onBdUice  of  Flour  ^  the  Uke  weight  ai  Butler  wiU  do;  put  it  into 
the  Stewpan,  shake  it  well  over  the  fire  for  five  minute^,  and  it'  is 
ready ;  lay  the  Steaks  and  OoioDs  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  Qravy  through 
a  sieve  over  d)era« 


180  BROILING. 

Desire  the  Butcher  to  cuf  them  of  even  thickness'^'if  he 
does  not— divide  the  thicker  from  the  thinaer  pieces — and 
give  them  time  accordingly.    .  . 

Take  care  to  have  a  very  clear  brisk  fire,  throw  a  little 
salt  on  it,  make  the  Gridiron  hot,  and  set  it  slanting,  to 
prevent  the  fat  from  dropping  into  the  fire,  and  making  a 
smoke.  It  requires  more  practice  and  care  than  is  generally 
supposed  to  do  Steaks  to  a  nicety ;  and  for  want  of  these 
little  attentions,  this  very  common  dish,  which  every  body  is 
supposed  capable  of  dressing,  seldom  comes  to  table  in 
perfection. 

Ask  those  you  Cook  for,  if  they  like  it  under,  or 
thonyughly  done ;  and  what  accompaniments  they  like  best; 
—it  is  usual  to  put  a  table-spoonfiil  of  Catsup  (No.  439)— <ir 
a  little  minced  Shallot  or  (No.  4Q2)  into  a  dish  before  the  fire ; 
while  you  are  broiling — ^tum  the  Steak,  &c.  with  a  pair  of 
$teak  tongs — it  will  be  done  in  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes; 
rub  a  bit  of  butter  over  it,  and  send  it  up  garnished  with 
Pickles  and  finely  scraped  Horseradish  (Nos.  135,  278, 29.9, 
255,  402,  423,  439,  and  356,)  are  the  Sauces  usually  com- 
posed for  Chops  and  Steaks. 

N.B.  Macbeth' 8  Receipt  for  Beef  Steaks  is  the  best— 

— *'  tpAefi  *tis  done,  *twere  well 
"  J/  'twere  done  quickly,** 

Obs* — **Le  Veritable  Bifteck,  comme  U  se  faU  en 
Anghterre^^*  as  Mons.  Beauvilliers  calls  (in  his  VArt  du 
CuistnieTj  tom.  i.  8vo.  Paris,  1814,  page  122,)  what  Hb 
says, — ^We  call  **  Romestedky^ — is  as  highly  esteemed  l^ 
our  French  neighbours,  as  their  *^  RagoHUs**  are  by  our 
Countrymen,  who 

—  "  post  to  Paris  go, 
"  Merely  to  taste  their  Soups,  and  Mushrooms  know.*' 

KiNO*8  Art  qf  Cookery,  p.  79. 

These  lines  were  written,  before  the  establishment  of 
Albion  House,  Aldersgate  Street,  where  every  luxury 
vUiat  Nature  and  Art  produce,  is  served  of  the  primest 
quality,  and  in  the  most  scientific  manner — ^in  a  style  of 
princely  magnificence   and   perfect  comfo^-— the  Wines^ 


MOIUNQ.  .181 

Liqueurs,   &c..are  superlative,  and  every  department  ot 
'  the  business  of  the  Banquet  is  conducted  in  the  most  liberal 
manner. 

The  FVench  author  whom  we  have  before  so  often  quoted, 
assures  les  Amateurs  de  Bonne  Chke  on  the  other  side  of 
'  the  Water,  it  is  well  worth  their  while  to  cross  the  Channel 
'  to  taste  this  favourite  English  dish,  which  when  **  mortifi^ 
d  sbnpoinf*^  and  well  dressed,  he  saj^,  is  superior  to  most 
of  the  subtle  double  relishes  of  the  Parisian  kitchen*— 
Almanojch  des  Gourmands,  vol  i.  p.  27. 

Beef  is  justly  accounted  the  most  nutritious  Animal  Food, 
and  is  entitled  to  the  same  rank  among  solid,  that  Brandy  is 
among  liquid  Stimuli. 

The  celebrated  Trainer,  ,Sir  Thomas  Parkps,  of  Bunny 
PSirk,  Bart.,  in  his  Bodk  on  Wrestling,  4to.  3d  Edit.  1727. 
p.  10,  &c.  greatly  prefers  Beef- eaters  to  Sheep' Biters ^  as 
he  called  those  who  ate  Mutton. 

When  Humphries  the  pugilist  was  trained  by  Ripsham, 
the  keeper  of  Ipswich  Jail,  he  was  at  first  fed  on  Beef^hiA 
got  so  much  flesh,  it  was  changed  fur  Mutton,  roasted,  or 
broiledj — when  hroUed,  great  part  of  the  nutritive  juices  of 
the  meat  is  extracted. 

The  principles  upon  which  training*  is  conducted, 
resolve  themselves  into  Temperance  without  abstemiousne», 
.  and  Exercise  without /olt^t^. 

Kidneys.— (^o.  95.) 

Cut  them  through  the  Jong  way, — score  them,  sprinkle 
a  little  pepper  and  salt  on  them,  and  run  a  wire  skewer 
^through  them  to  keep  them  from  curling  on  the  Gridiron^  so 
tiiat  they  may  be  evenly  broiled.  ^ 

Broil  them  over  a  very  clear  fire,  turning  them  often  till 
they  are  done;  they  will  itake  about  ten  or  twelve  minutes, 
if  the  fire  is  brisk :  or  Fry  them  in  Butter,  'and  make  gravy 
for  them  in  the  pan  (after  you'  have  taken  out  the  kidneys). 


•  See  '*  Tub  Art  of  Imviooratino  and  PaoLOKorNG  Lifb,*' — 
bf  the  Editor  of  <<  Thb  Cook*s  Oracle,"  Published  by  0.  B. 
Whittaker,  No.  13,  Ave  Afarift  Lane,  v 


1B2  BROILING* 

by  putting  in  a  tea-spoonftil  of  flour ;  as  soon  as  it  looks  brown, 
put  if)  as  much  water  as  will  make  gravy ;  they  will  take 
five  minutes  more  to  fry  than  to  broil.  For  Sauce,  (Nos*  318, 
355,  and  356.) 

06*. — Some  Cooks  chop  a  few  Parsley  leaves  very  fine, 
and  mix  them  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  and  a  little  repper 
and  Sah,  and  put  a  little  of  this  miicture  on  each  Kidney. 

AFowlor  Rabbit,^.— {^0.97.) 

We  can  only  reoommend  this  method  of  dressing,  when 
the  Fire  is  not  good  enough  f<Mr  roasting. 

Pick  and  truss  it  the  same  as  for  boiling,  cut  it  open  down 
the  bade,  wipe  the  inside  clean  with  a  cloth,  season  it  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  have  a  clear  fire,  and  set  the  gridiron 
at  a  good  distance  over  it,  lay  the  chicken  on  with  the  inside 
towards  tlie  fire ;  (you  may  egg  it  and  strew  some  grated 
l^ead  pver  it)  and  broil  it  till  it  is  a  fine  brown — take  care 
die  fleshy  ade  is  not  burnt.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pickled 
Mushrooms,  or  Mushroom  Sauce  (No.  305),  thrown  over  it, 
or  Parsley  and  Butter  (No*  261)  or  melted  Butter  flavoured 
with  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  307.) 

Garnish  it  with  slices  of  Lemon,  and  the  Liver  and 
Gizzard,  slit  find  notched,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  broiled  nicely  brown,  and  some  sHces  <tf  lemon. 
For  Grill  sauce,  see  (No.  355.) 

N.B.  **  It  was  a  great  mode,  and  taken  up  by  the  court 
party  in  Oliver  CromwelPs  time,  to  roast  half  Capons- 
pretending  they  had  a  more  exquisite  taste  and  nutrimeat 
than  when  dressed  whole.''-<-iSc^  Joan  Cbomwsll's 
Kitchen,  London,  1664,  page  39, 

PtjcotM,— (No.  98») 

To  be  worth  the  trouble!  of  picking,  must  be  well  gvown, 
and  well  fed. 

Clean  them  well,  and  pepper  and  salt  them ;  broil  them 
over  a  clear  slow  fire ;  turn  them  often,  and  put  a  little  butter 
on  them :  when  they  are  done,  pour  over  them,  either 
stewed  (No.  305)  or  pickled  Mushrooms,  or  Catsup  and 
melted  Butter  (No.  307)— or  (Nos.  348  or  355.) 


BROlLtNO.  IS? 

Garnish  with  fried  bread  Crumbs  or  Sippets  (No.  319) :  or, 
when  the  Pigeons  are  trussed  as  for  boihrig,  flat  them  with  a 
cleaver,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin  of  the  backs  or 
breasts ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  lil;tl^  bit  of 
butter,  and  a  tea<>8poonful  of  water,  and  tie  them  dose  at  both 
ends ;  so  when  they  are  brought  to  Tabk,  they  bring  their 
Sauce  with  them.  Egg  and  dredge  them  well  with  grated 
bread  (mixed  with  Spice  and  Sweet  herbs,  if  you  please), 
.  then  lay  them  on  the  gridiron,  and  turn  them  frequently  :  if 
"your  fire  is  not  very  clear,  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  paper  well 
buttered,  to  keep  them  from  getting  smoked.  They  are 
much  better  broiled  whole. 

The  same  Sauce  as  in  the  preceding  receipt,  cht  (Nos.  343> 
or  348.) 

Veal  Cutlet*  (No.  521,  and  No*  91.) 

Pork  Chops  (No.  93.) 


'  ^' 


THE 

COOK^S  ORACLE. 


VEGETABLES. 

Sixteen  Ways  op  dressing  Potatoes.* 

(No.  102.) 

The  Vegetable  Kingdom  affords  no  Food  more  wholesome, 
more  easily  procured,  easily  prepared,  or  less  expensive  thaD 
the  Potatoe :  yet  although  this  most  useful  v^etable  is 
dressed  almost  every  day,  in  almost  every  family, — for  One 
plate  of  Potatoes  that  comes  to  table  as  it  should.  Ten  are 
spoiled. 

Be  careful  in  your  choice  of  Potatoes ;  no  v^etable  varies 
80  much  in  colour,  size,  shape,  consistence,  and  flavour. 

The  reddish  coloured  are  better  than  the  white,  but  the 
yellowish  looking  ones  are  the  best.  Choose  those  of  a 
moderate  size,  free  from  blemishes,  and  fresh,  and  buy  them 
in  the  mould;  they  must  not  be  wetted  till  they  are  cleaned  to 
be  cooked.  Protect  them  from  the  Air  and  Frost — ^by  laying 
them  in  heaps  in  a  cellar,  covering  them  with  mats,  or 
burying  them  in  sand  or  in  earth.  The  action  of  Frod 
is  most  destructive — if  it  be  considerable,  the  life  of  the 
vegetable  is  destroyed,  and  the  Polatoe  speedily  rots. 

Wash  them,  but  do  not  pare  or  cut  them,  unless  they  are 

very  large, — fill  a  saucepan  half  full  of  Potatoes  of  equal 

dze,f  (or  make  them  so  by  dividing  the  larger  ones),  put 
*■'      ■  *»i'  ■■■.■■■■       I,  i>  f 

*  *<  Next  to  Bread,  there  is  no  vegetable  article,  the  preparatioD  of 
which,  as  food,  deser?e8  to  be  more  attended  to,  than  the  Potatoe.''— 
Sir  John  Sinclair's  Code  of  Health,  vol.  i.  p.  354. 

^'  By  the  AnalgsU  of  Potatoe,  it  appears  that  16  ounces  oontaiiM^ 
ll|^  ounces  of  water— and  the  4}  ounces  of  solid  parts  remaining 
afforded  scarce  a  drachm  of  earth.**—  Parmentibb**  Ohs,  on  Nutritin 
Fe^etableSfSvo.  1783,  p.  112. 

t  Or  the  SMALL  onbs  will  be  done  to  pieces  befoce  the  lab«b 
0KB8  axe  boiled  enough. 


.  VEGETABLB6.  185 

to  them  as  much  cold  water  as  will  cover  them  ahout  an 
inch  :  they  are  sooner  hoiled,  and  more  savoury  than  when 
drowned  in  water — most  boiled  things  are  spoiled  by 
having  too  little  water,  but  Potatoes  are  often  spoiled  by  too 
inuch :  they  must  merely  be  covered,  and  a  little  allowed 
for  waste  in  boiling,  so  that  they  may  be  just  covered  at  the 
finish. 

Set  them  on  a  moderate  fire  till  they  boil,  then  take  them 
off,  and  set  them  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly 
till  they  are  soft  enough  to  admit  a  fork — (place  no  de- 
pendence on  the  usual  test  of  their  skin  cracking,  which,  if 
they  are  boiled  fast,  will  happen  to  some  Potatoes  when  they 
are  not  half  done,  and  the  inside  is  quite  hard,] — then  pour 
the  water  ofi^,  (if  you  let  the  Potatoes  remain  in  the  water  a 
moment  after  they  are  done  enough,  they  will  become  waxy 
and  watery,)  uncover  the  saucepan,  and  set  it  at  such  a  distance 
firom  the  fire  as  will  secure  it  from  burning ;  their  super- 
fluous moisture  will  evaporate,  and  the  Potatoes  will  be  per- 
fectly dry  and  mealy. 

You  may  afterwards  place  a  napkin,  folded  up  to  the  size 
of  the  saucepan's  diameter,  over  the  Potatoes,  to  keep  them 
hot  and  mesuy  till  wanted. 

Obs. — This  method  of  managing  Potatoes  is  in  every 
respect  equal  to  steaming  them ;  and  they  are  dressed  in  half 
the  time. 

There  is  such  an  infinite  variety  of  sorts  and  sizes  of 
Potatoes,  that  it  is  impossible  to  say  how  long  they  will 
take  doing ;  the  best  way  is  to  try  them  with  a  fork.  Mode- 
rate sized  Potatoes  will  generally  be  enough  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.    See  Obs,  to  (No.  1 06.) 

Ck>ld  Potatoes  Frteci— (No.  1 02.» ) 

Put  a  bit  of  clean  Dripping  into  a  frying-pan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  slice  in  your  Potatoes  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
pxitthem  on  the  fire,  keep  stirring  them;  when  they  are 
.quite  hot,  they  are  ready. 

Obs. — This  is  a  very  good  way  of  re-dressing  Potatoes—or 
gee  (No,  106,) 


1S6  VEGEtABL^S. 

Potatoes  boUed  and  6rot7ed.— (No.  103.) 

Dress  your  Potatoes  as  before  directed^  aod  put  them  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  very  clear  and  brisk  fire ;  turn  them  till  they 
are  brown  all  over,  and  send  them  up  diry,  with  melted  but- 
ter in  a  cup. 

Potatoes  fried  in  Slioes  or  Shavings. — (No.  104.) 

Peel  large  Potatoes,  slice  them  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  or  cut  them  in  shavings  round  and  round,  as  you 
would  peel  a  lemon ;  dry  them  well  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  fry 
them  in  lard  or  dripping.  Take  care  that  your  fat  and  fry- 
ing-pan are  quite  clean ;  put  it  on  a  quick  fire,  watch  it,  and 
as  soon  as  the  lard  boils,  and  is  still,  put  in  the  slices  of  po« 
tatoe,  and  keep  moving  them  till  they  are  crisp;  take  them 
up  and  lay  them  to  drain  on  a  sieve ;  send  them  up  with  a 
very  little  salt  sprinkled  over  them. 

Potatoes  fried  foholc^^i^o.  105.) 

When  nearly  boiled  enough,  as  directed  in  (No.  102),  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  or  some  nice  dean 
beef  drippings ;  shake  them  about  often  (for  fear  of  burn- 
ing them),  till  they  are  brown  and  crisp ;  drain  them  from 
the  fat. 

Obs, — It  will  be  an  elegant  improvement  to  the  three  last 
receipts,  previous  to  frying  or  broiling  the  Potatoes,  to  flour 
them  and  dip  them  in  tne  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  roll  them 
in  fine  sifted  bread  crumbs ;  they  will  then  deserve^to  be 
called  POTATOES  full  dressed. 

Potatoes  wia«AeJ.— (No.  106.)     See  also  (No.  112). 

When  your  Potatoes  are  thoroi^hly  boiled,  drain  them 
Quite  dry,  pick  out  every  speck,  &c.  and  while  hot,  rub 
tnem  through  a  cullender  into  a  clean  stewpan :  to  a  pound 
of  Potatoes  put  about  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  ot  milk:  do  not  make  them  too  moist;  mix  them 
well  together. 

06*.— J/fer  Lady^day^  when  the  Potatoes  are  getting  old 
and  specky,  and  in  Frosty  weather^  this  is  the  best  way  of 
dressing  them.    You  may  put  them  into  shapes  or  small  tea* 


VEGETABLES.  187 

cups,  egg  them  with  yolk  of  Egg,  and  brown  them  very 
slightlylS&forea  slowfire*    See  (No.  108). 

Poiatoes  mashed  with  OnioTis. — (No.  107.) 

Prepare  some  boiled  onions  by  putting  them  throi^h  a 
sieve,  and  mix  them  with  Potatoes.  In  proportioning  the 
Onions  to  the  Potatoes,  you  will  be  guided  by  your  wish  to 
have  more  or  less  of  their  flavour. 

Obs. — See  note  under  (No.  555). 

Potatoes  Escalloped, —  (No.  108.) 

Mash  Potatoes  as  directed  in  (No.  106) ;  then  butter  some 
nice  clean  scollop- shells,  patty-pans,  or  tea-cups  or  saucers, 
put  in  your  Potatoes,  make  them  smooth  at  the  top,  cross  a 
knife  over  them,  strew  a  few  iine  bread  crumbs  on  them, 
sprinkle  them  with  a  paste  brush  with  a  few  drops  of  melted 
butter,  and  then  set  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  ; — ^when  they  are 
browned  on  the  top,  take  them  carefully  out  of  the  shells, 
and  brown  the  other  side. 

Cb&awHon.— (No.  108*) 

Boil  Potatoes  and  Greens,  or  Spinage  separately — Mash 
the  Potatoes — squeeze  the  Greens  dry,  chop  them  quite  fine, 
and  mix  them  with  the  Potatoes  with  a  little  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt — put  it  into  a  mould,  buttermg  it  well  first ;  let  it 
stand  in  a  not  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Potatoes  Roasted, — (No.  109.) 

Wash  and  dry  your  Potatoes  (all  of  a  size)^  and  put  them 
in  a  tin  Dutch  oven,  or  cheese-toaster : — take  care  not  to  put 
them  too  near  the  fire,  or  they  will  get  burnt  on  the  outside 
before  they  are  warmed  through. 

Laige  Potatoes  will  require  two  hours  to  roast  them. 

N.  B.  To  save  time  and  trouble,  some  Cooks  half  boil 
them  first 

This  is  one  of  the  best  opportunities  the  Baker  has  to 
rival  the  Cook. 

Potatoes  Roasted  under  Area/.-*(No.  110.) 
Half  boil  large  Potatoes,— drain  the  water  from  them,  and 


1 


188  VEGETABLES. 

put  them  into  an  earthen  dish,  or  small  tin  pan,  under  Meat 
that  is  roasting,  and  baste  them  with  some  of  the  dripping; 
—when  they  are  browned  on  one  side,  turn  them  and  brown 
the  other,  send  them  up  round  the  meat,  or  in  a  sma\l  dish. 

Potatoe  Balls.— ^0.  111.) 

Mix  mashed  Potatoes  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  roll  tbem 
into  balls,  flour  them,  or  egg  and  bread  crumb  them,  and 
fry  them  in  clean  drippings, — or  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

Potatoe  Balls  ilagfoti/.— (No.  112.) 

,  Are  made  by  adding  to  a  pound  of  Potatoes  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  grated  ham,  or  some  sweet  herbs,  or  chopped  pars- 
ley, an  onion  or  shallot,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  littJ^  gjated 
nutmeg,  or  other  spice,  with  the  yolk  of  a  couple  of  eggs ; 
they  are  then  to  be  dressed  as  (No,  111). 

Ohs^ — An  agreeable  vegetable  relish,  and  a  good  supper 
dish. 

Pototoc  iS'now.—r (No.  114.) 

The  Potatoes  must  be  free  from  spots,  and  the  whitest  you 
can  pick  out ;  put  them  on  in  cold  water ;  when  they  b^n 
^o  crack,  strain  the  water  from  them,  and  put  them'  into  a 
clean  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  tney  are  quite  dry 
and  fall  to  pieces ;  rub  them  through  a  wire  sieve  on  the 
dish  they  are  to  be  sent  up  in,  and  do  not  disturb  them  after- 
wards, 

Potatoe  Pic— (No.  1 15.) 

Peel  and  slice  your  Potatoes  very  thin,  into  a  pie  dish ; 
between  each  layer  of  Potatoes  put  a  little  chopped  onion, 
(three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  onion  is  sufficient  for  a  pound 
of  Potatoes) ;  between  each  layer  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  put  in  a  little  water,  and  cut  about  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter  into  little  bits,  and  lay  them  on  the  top :  cover  it  close 
with  puff  paste.  It  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  to 
bake  it. 

N.B.  The  Yolks  of  four  E^gs  (boiled  hard)' may  be  added; 
and  when  bakc^d,  a  table-spoonful  of  good  Mushroom  Catsup 
poured  in  through  a  funnel. 


VEGETABLES..  1^9 

Obi. — Cauliflowers  divided  into  mouthsful,  and  Button 
Onions,  seasoned  with  Curry  Powder,  &c.^  make  a  favouiute 
Vegetable  Pie. 

New  Potatoes,  ^[^o.  l]6.) 

The  best  way  to  clean  New  Potatoes,  is  to  rub  them  with 
a  coarse  cloth  or  a  flannel,  or  scrubbing-brush ;  and  proceed 
as  in  (No.  192). 

N.  B.  New  Potatoes  are  poor,  watery,  and.  insipid,  till 
they  are  full  two  inches  in  diameter — ^they  aie  not  worth  the 
trouble  of  boiling  before  Midsummer  Day. 

Obs. — Some  Cooks  prepare  Sauces  to  pour  over  Potatoes, 
made  with  butter,  salt,  ana  pepper,  or  jnravy,  or  melted  but* 
ter  and  catsup,  or  stew  the  Potatoes  in  ale,  or  water  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  or  bake  them  with  herrings,  or  sprats, 
mixed  with  layers  of  potatoes,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
sweet  herbs,  vmegar,  and  water;  or  cut  mutton  or  beef  into 
slices,  and  lay  them  in  a  stew  pan,  and  on  them  potatoes  and 
spices,  then  another  layer  of  the  meat  alternately,  pouring 
in  a  little  water,  covering  it  up  very  close,  and  stewing  slowly. 

Potatoe  Muciiage  (a  good  substitute  for  Arrow  Root), 
(No.  448). 

Jerusalem  Ariichohes — (No.  117.) 

Are  boiled  and  dressed  in  the  various  ways  we  have  just 
before  directed  for  potatoes. 

N.  B.  They  should  be  covered  with  thick  melted  butter,  or 
a  bice  White  or  Brown  Sauce. 

Cabbage.— i;^o.  118.) 

Pick  Cabbages  very  clean,  and  wash  them  thoroughly, 
then  look  them  over  carefully  again  ;  quarter  them  if  they  are 
very  large.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  boiling 
water;  if  any  scum  rises,  take  it  off*,  put  a  large  spoonful  of 
salt  into  the  saucepan,  and  boil  them  till  ihe  stalks  feel  ten- 
der. A  Young  Cabbage  will  take  about  twenty  minutes,  or 
half  an  hour — when  FuU  Gi^own,  near  an  hour:  see  that  they 
are  well  covered  with  wafer  all  the  time,  and  that  no  smoke 
or  dirt  arises  frbrn  stirring  the  fire.     With  careful  manage- 


1 90  VEGETABLES. 

ment,  they  will  look  as  beautiful  when  dressed^  as  they  did  , 
when  growing. 

Obs, — Some  Cooks  Eay,  that  it  will  much  ameliorate  the 
flavour  of  strong  old  Cabhcufes  to  boil  them  in  two  waters; 
t.  e.  when  they  are  half  done,  to  take  them  out,  and  put  them 
directly  into  another  saucepan  of  boilins  water,  instead  of  ' 
continuing  them  in  the  water  into  which  they  were  first  put 

Boiled  Cabbage  f lied.— {l!io.  119.) 
See  Receipt  for  Bubble  and  Squeak, 

Saroy#— (No.  120.) 

Are  boiled  in  the  same  inanner ;  quarter  them  when  you 
send  them  to  table. 

Sprouts  and  Young  Cfreens. — (No.  121.) 

The  Receipt  we  have  written  for  Cabbages  will  answer 
as  well  for  Sprouts,  only  they  will  be  boiled  enough  in  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes. 

Spmage.—(^o.  122.) 

Spinage  should  be  picked  a  leaf  at  a  time,  and  washed  in 
three  or  four  waters ;  when  perfectly  clean,  lay  it  on  a  sieve, 
or  cullender,  to  drain  the  water  from  it. 

Put  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  three  parts  filled  with  water, 
and  large  enough  for  the  Spinage  to  float  in  it ;  put  a  small 
handful  of  salt  in  it,  let  it  boil,  skim  it,  and  then  put  in  the 
Spinage,  make  it  boil  as  quick  as  possible,  till  quite  tender, 
pressing  the  Spinage  down  frequently,  that  it  may  be  done 
equally ;  it  will  be  enough  in  about  ten  minutes,  if  boiled  in 
plenty  of  water ;  if  the  Spinage  is  a  little  old,  give  it  a  few 
minutes  longer.  When  done,  strain  it  on  the  back  of  a  sieve, 
squeeze  it  dry  with  a  plate,  or  between  two  trenchers,  chop 
it  fine,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a 
little  salt ;  a  little  cream  is  a  great  improvement,  or  instead 
of  either,  some  rich  Gravy.  Spread  it  in  a  dish,  and  score 
it  into  squares  of  proper  size  to  help  at  table. 

05«.-— Grated  nutmeg,  or  mace,  and  a  little  lemon  juice, 
is  a  favourite  addition  with  some  cooks,  and  is  added  when 


VEGETABLES.  191 

you  Stir  it  up  in  the  stewpan  with  the  butter  garnished. 
Spihage  is  frequently  served  with  Poached  Eggs  with  fried 
bread. 

•Asparagus. — (No.  123.) 

Set  a  stewpan  with  plenty  of  water  in  it  on  the  fire ; 
sprinkle  a  handful  of  salt  in  it,  let  it  boil,  and  skim  it ;  then 
put  in  your  Asparagus,  prepared  thus : — Scrape  all  the  stalks 
till  they  are  perfectly  clean,  throw  them  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water  as  you  scrape  them ;  when  they  are  aU  done,  tie  them 
up  in  little  bundles,  of  about  a  quarter  hundred  each,  with 
Imiss,  if  you  can  get  it,  or  tape ;  string  cuts  them  to  pieces : 
cut  off  the  stalks  at  the  bottom,  that  they  may  be  all  of  a 
length,,  leaving  only  just  enough  to  serve  as  a  handle  for  the 
ereen  part ;  when  they  are  tender  at  the  stalk,  which  will 
be  in  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  they  are  done  enough. 
Great  care  must  l>e  taken  to  watch  the  exaxi  time  of  their  6e- 
candng  tender;  take  them  up  just  at  that  instant,  and  they 
will  have  their  true  flavour  and  colour : — a  minute  or  two 
more  boiling  destroys  both. 

While  the  Asparagus  is  boiling,  toast  a  round  of  a  quar- 
tern loaf,  about  half  an  inch  thick,  brown  it  delicately  on 
both  sides,  dip  it  lightly  in  the  liquor  the  Asparagus  was. 
boiled  in,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish  :  melt  some  but- 
ter (No.  256),  then  lay  in  the  Asparagus  upon  the  Toasts 
which  must  project  beyond  the  Asparagus,  that  the  company 
inay  see  there  is  a  Toast. 

Pour  no  butter  over  them,  but  send  some  up  in  a  boat,  or 
White  Sauce  {No.  364,)  (No.  2.) 

Sea  Ifa/c— (No.  124.) 

Is  tied  up  in  bundles,  and  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  As- 
paragus. 

Cauliflower.— ij^o.  125.) 

Choose  those  that  are  close  and  white,  and  of  the  middle 
size,  trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  cut  the  stalk  off  flat  at  the 
bottom,  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  an  hour  before  you 
boil  them. 

Put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it. 


192 


VEGETABLES. 


skim  it  well,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done,  which  a  small 
one  will  be  in  fifteen,  a  large  one  in  about  twenty  minutes^ 
take  it  up  the  moment  it  is  enoughy  a  minute  or  two  longer 
boiling  will  spoil  it. 

N.  B.  Cola  Cauliflowers  and  French  Beans^  Carrots  and 
Turnips^  boiled  so  as  to  eat  rather  crisp,  are  sometimes  dressed 
as  a  Salad  (No.  372  or  453.) 

BroooK.— (No.  J  26.) 

Set  a  pan  of  clean  cold  water  on  the  table,  and  a  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire  with  plenty  of  water,  and  a  handful  of  salt 
In  it. 

Brocoli  is  prepared  by  stripping  off  all  the  side  shoots, 
leaving  the  top ;  peel  off  the  skin  of  the  stalk  with  ai  knife, 
cut  it  close  off  at  the  bottom,  and  put  it  into  the  pan  of  cold 
Water. 

When  the  water  in  the  stewpan  boils,  and  the  Brocoli  is 
ready,  put  it  in,  let  it  boil  briskly  till  the  stalks  feel  tender, 
from  ten  to  twenty  minutes ; — ^take  it  up  with  a  slice,  that 
you  may  not  break  it ;  let  it  drain,  and  serve  up. 

If  some  of  the  heads  of  Brocoli  are  much  higgler  than  tha 
others,  put  them  on  to  boil  first,  so  that  they  may  get  all  done 
together. 

Obs. — It  makes  a  nice  supper  dish  served  upon  a  toast, 
like  Asparagus.  It  is  a  very  delicate  vegetable,  and  you 
must  take  it  up  he  moment  it  is  done,  and  send  it  to  table 
hot. 

Red  Beet  Roots-^i^o.  127.) 

Are  not  so  much  used  as  they  deserve ;  they  are  dressed 
in  the  same  way  as  Parsnips,  only  neither  scraped  nor  cut 
tilt  after  they  are  boiled :  they  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half 
to  three  hours  in  boiling,  according  to  their  size. — to  be  sent 
to  table  with  Salt  Fish,  Boiled  Beef,  &c.  When  young, 
lar^e,  and  juicy,  it  is  a  very  good  variety, — ^an  excellent  gar- 
nish,—and  easily  converted  into  a  very  cheap  and  pleasant 
pickle. 

Parsnip*— (No.  128.) 
Are  to  be  cooked  just  in  the  same  manner  as  Carrots;  they 


YBGBTABLES.  193. 

require  more  or  less  time  according  to  their  size,  therefore 
match  them  in  size,  and  you  must  try  them,  hy  thrusting  a 
fork  into  them  as  they  are  in  the  water ;  when  that  goes, 
eaaly  trough,  they  are  done  enough;  boil  them  from  an. 
hour,  or  two  hours,  according  to  their  size  and  freshness. 

06i. — Parsnips  are  sometimes  sent  up  mashed  in  the  same 
way  as  Turnips,  and  some  Cooksi  quarter  them  before  they 
boil  them. 

GiTTofjr.— (No.  129.) 

liet  them  be  well  washed  and  brushed,  not  scraped :  an 
hour  is  enough  for  young  spring  carrots ;  grown  carrots  must 
be  cut  in  half,  and  will  take  fviMu  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hoars  and  a  half.  When  done,  rub  off  the  peels  with  a  clean . 
coarse  clotb,  and  slice  them  in  two  or  four,  according  to 
their  size.  The  best  way  to  try  if  they  are  done  enough,  is 
to  pierce  them  with  a  fork.  .   ^ 

Obs. — ^Many  people  are  fond  of  cold  Carrot  with  cold 
Beef,  ask  if  you  shall  cook  enough  for  some  to  be  left  to  send 
up  with  the  cold  meat. 

Tiimtp*.— (No.  130.) 

Peel  off  half  an  inch  of  the  stringy  outside ;  full-grown  tur- 
nips will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half  gentle  boiling ;  if 
ypu  ^ce  them,  which  most  people  do,  they  will  be  done 
sooner;  try  them  with  a  fork, — ^when  tender,  take  them 
up,  and  ky  them  on  a  sieve  till  the  water  is  thoroughly 
drained  from  them  :  send  them  up  whole ;  do  not  slice  them. 

N.B.  To  very  young  Turnips  leave  about  two  inches  of  the 
Green  Top.     See  (No.  132.) 

To  Mask  r«mp«.— (No.  131.) 

When  they  are  boiled  quite  tender,  squeeze  (kern  tis  dry  an 
|>0fA6/e' between  two  trenchers,  put  them  into  a  saucepan^ 
mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  rub  them  through  a 
cullender,  add  a  little  bit  of  butter,  keep  stirring  them  till  the 
butter  is  melted  and  well  mixed  with  them,  and  they  are 
ready  for  table. 

Turnip  Tojx,— (No.  132.) 
Are  the  shoots  which  grow  out  (in  the  spring)  of  the  old 

K 


194  V^]^tABI/SSi 

ttirnip  roots.  Put  them  into  cold  water  an  hour  before  they 
are  dressed  ;  the  more  water  they  are  boiled  in,  the  better 
they  will  look;  if  boiled  in  a  «mall  quantity  of  water,  they 
will  taste  bitter  ;  when  the  water  boils,  put  in  a  small  hand- 
ful of  salt^  and  then  your  vegetables ;  if  fresh  and  young, 
they  will  be  done  in  about  twenty  minutes;  drain  them  on 
the  back  of  a  sieve. 

French  B^n^.— (No.  133.) 

Cut  off  the  stalk  epd  first,  and  then  turn  to  the  point  and 
strip  off  the  strings  : — If  not  quite  fresK  have  a  bowl  of 
Sipring  water,  with  a  little  $alt  dissolved  in  it,  standing  bdbre 
I  you,  and  a^  the  beans  are  cleaned  and  stringed,  throw  them 
in: — ^when  all  arc  done,  put  them  on  the  fire,  in  boiling 
water,  with  some  salt  in  it;  when  they  have  boiled  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  take  one  out  and  taste  it;  as  soon  as  they 
are  tender,  take  them  up,  throw  them  into  a  cullender  or  sieve 
to  drain. 

To  send  up  the  beans  whole  is  much  the  best  method  when 
they  are  thus  young,  and  their  delicate  flavour  and  colour  are 
much  better  preserved.  When  a  little  more  grown,  they 
must  be  cut  across  in  two,  after  stringing ;  and  for  common 
tables  they  arft  fiplit,  and  divided  across ;  cut  them  all  ibe 
same  length  ^but  those,  who  are  nice,  never  haveth«mitC 
such  a  growth  as  to  require  splitting. 

When  they  are  very  large,  they  look  pretty  oat  into 
Lozenges. 

0^*.— See  N.BL  to  (No.  J  25.) 

Grccw  Fea*c.*— (No.  J  34.) 

Young  Green  Pease,  well  dressed,  are  one  of  the  most  deli- 
cious delicacies  of  the  vegetable  kingdom.  They  must  be 
young ;  it  is  equally  indispensable  that  they  be  fresh  gathered^ 


*  These  and  all  other  fraits^and  Tegetable$,  (fee.  by  Mr.  Appbrt^ 
plan,  it  is  said,  may  be  preserved  for  twelvemonths.— See  Appbrt'^ 
Book,  12mo.  1812.  We.  have, eaten  of  several  specimens  of  preserved 
Pease — which  looked  pretty  enough, — but  flavour  tl^ey  had  none  at 
all. 


VEGETABLES.  195 

and  cooked  as  $oon  as  they  are  shelled,  for  they  soon  lose  both 
their  colour  and  sweetness. 

If  you  wish  to  feast  upon  Pease  in  perfection,  you 
most  have  them  gathered  the  same  day  they  are  dressed, 
and  put  on  to  boil  within  half  an  hour  after  they  are  shelled. 
Pass  them  through  a  riddle^  u  e.  a  coarse  sieve,  which  is 
made  for  the  purpose  of  separating  them.  This  precaution 
is  necessary,  for  large  and  small  pease  cannot  be  boiled  to- 
gether, as  the  former  will  take  more  time  than  the  latter. 

For  a  peck  of  pease,  set  on  a  saucepan  with  a  gallon  of 
water  in  it ;  when  it  boils,  put  in  your  pease  with  a  table- 
spooi^  of  salt, — skim  it  well,  keep  them  boiling  quick 
from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  accoraing  to  their  aee  and 
size:  the  best  way  to  judge  of  their  being  done  enough,  and 
indeed  the  only  way  to  make  sure  of  co(^ing  them  to,  and 
not  beyond,  tne  point  of  perfection,  or,  as  Pea-eaters  say,  of 
'*  boUing  them  to  a  bubble^**  is  to  take  ihem  out  with  a  spoon 
and  taste  them. 

When  they  are  enough,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve,  tf 
you  like  them  buttered,  put  them  into  a  pie-dish,  divide  sotne 
butter  into  small  bits,  and  lay  them  on  the  pease :  put 
another  dish  over  them,  and  turn  them  over  and  over ;  tnis; 
will  melt  the  butter  through  them  ;  but  as  all  people  do  not 
like  buttered  pease,  you  had  better  send  thei%io  table  plain, 
as  they  come  out  of  the  saucepan,  with  melted  butter  (No. 
256,)  in  a  sauce  tureen.  It  is  usual  to  boil  some  Mint  with 
the  Pease ;  but  if  you  wish  to  garnish  the  Pease  with  Mint, 
boil  a  few  sprigs  in  a  saucepan  by  themselves.  See  Sage 
and  Onion  Sauce  (No.  300,)  and  Pea  Powder  (No.  458.) 
To  boil  Bacon  (No.  1 3,)  Slices  of  Ham  and  Bacon  (No. 
526,)  and  Relishing  Rashers  of  Bacmi  (No.  527.) 

N.B.  A  Peck  of  young  Pease  will  not  yield  more  than 
.enotgh  for  a  couple  of  hearty  Pea-eaters, — ^when  the  pods 
are  full,  it  may  serve  for  three. 

Mem. — ^Never  think  of  purchasing  Pease  ready^shelled,  for 
the  cogent  reasons  assigned  in  the  first  part  of  this  receipt. 

.    Cucumber  iSteioed.— (No.  135.) 

Peel  and  cut  cucumbers  in  quarters,  take  out  the  seeds, 

k2 


195  VEGETABLES. 

and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain  off  the  water  :  when  they 
are  dry,  flour  and  fry  them  in  fresh  butter  ;  let  the  butter 
be  quite  hot  before  you  put  in  the  cucumbers ;  fry  them  till 
they  are  brown,  then  take  them  out  with  an.  egg  slice,  and 
lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  the  fat  from  them  :  (some  Cooks 
fry  sliced  Onions,  or  some  small  Button  Onions,  with  them,  till 
they  are  a  delicate  light  brown  colour,  drain  them  from  the 
fat,  and  then  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  as  mucb  Gravy 
as  will  cover  them ;)  stew  slowly  till  tLey  are  tender ;  take 
out  the  cucumbers  with  a  slice,  thicken  the  Gravy  with  flour 
and  butter,  give  it  a  boil  up,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  put  in  the  Cucumbers ;  as  soon  as  they  are  warm,  they 
are  ready. 

The  above,  rubbed  through  a  Tammis  or  fine  sieve,  will 
be  entitled  to  be  called  "Cucumber  Sauce."  See  (No. 
399,)  Cucumber  Vinegar.  This  is  a  very  favourite  sauce 
with  lamb  or  mutton  cutlets,  stewed  rump  steaks,  &c.  &c. ; 
when  made  for  the  latter,  a  third  part  of  sliced  onion  is  some- 
times fried  with  the  cucumber. 

^r^c^oAc*.— (No.  136.) 

Soak  them  in  cold  water,  wash  them  well,  then  put  them 
into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  let 
them  boil  gently  till  they  are  tender,  which  will  take  an  hour 
and  a  half,  or  two  hours ;  the  surest  way  to  know^When  they 
are  done  enough,  is  to  draw  out  a  leaf;  trim  them  and  drain 
them  on  a  sieve ;  and  send  up  melted  butter  with  them,  which 
some  put  into  small  cups,  so  that  each  guest  may  have  one. 

Stewed  Oniovs. — (No.  137.) 

The  large  Portugal  Onions  are  the  best ;  take  off  the  top- 
coats of  half  at  dozen  of  these,  (taking  care  not  to  cut  off  the 
tops  or  tails  too  near,  or  the  onions  will  go  to  pieces;)  and 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  broad  enough  to  hold  them  without 
laying  them  atop  of  one  another,  and  just  cover  them  with 
good  broth. 

Put  them  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  about  two 
hours ;  when  you  dish  them,  turn  them  upside  down^  and 
pour  the  sauce  over. 

Young  Oniojis  Steuei,  see  (No.  296.) 


''     VEGETABLES.  197 

iSWoij.— (No.  138,*)  also  (No.  372.) 

Those  who  desire  to  see  thts^nbject  elaborately  illustrated, 
we  refer  to  "  Evylyn's  Acetaria^^^  a  discourse  of  Sallets,  a 
12mo.  of  240  pages.    London,  1699. 

Mr.  £.  gives  us  ^*  an  account  of  seve7Uy'4tffo  herbs  proper 
and  fit  to  make  Sallet  with/* — and  a  table  of  Thirtyjivey 
telling  their  seasons  and  proportions.  *<  In  the  composure  of 
a  Sallet,  every  plant  should  come  in  to  bear  its  part,  like  the 
Notes  in  Music :  thus  the  comical  Master  Cook  introduced 
by  Damoxenus^  when  asked,  *  what  Harmony  there  was  in 
Meats?* — *the  very  same,'  says  he,  *as  the  3d,  5th,  and  8th 
have  to  one  another  in  music — the  main  skill  lies  in  this, 
not  to  mingle  f^sapores  minimi  consentientes*  J^-^.Tzaltes  not 
well  joined — inelegant,'  as  our  Paradisian  Bard  directs  Eve 
when  dressing  a  sallet  for  her  Angelical  Guest. "^  "*-Milton*8 
Paradise  Lost. 

He  gives  the  following  Receipt  for  the  Oxoleon: 

"  Take  of  clear  and  perfectly  good  OyUOlive  three  part»— 
of  sharpest  Vinegar^  {sweetest  of  all  CondimentSy  for  it  incites 
appetite,  and  causes  Hunger,  which  is  the  best  sauce,)  Limon, 
or  juice  of  Orange^  one  part — and  therein  let  steep  some  slices 
of  Horseradish^  with  a  little  Salt :  some,  in  a  separate  Vine- 
gar, gently  bruise  a  pod  of  Ginny  Pepper,  and  strain  it  to  the 
other — then  add  as  much  Mustard  as  will  lie  upon  a  half- 
<:rown  piece.  Beat  and  mingle  these  well  together  with  the 
yolk  of  two  new-laid  Eggs  boiled  hard,  and  pour  it  oyer  your 
^let,  stirring  it  well  together.  The  ^uper-curious  insist  that 
the  knife  with  which  Sallet  herb  is  cut  must  be  of  Silveri-^ 
«ome  who  are  husbands  of  their  Oyl,  pour  at  first  the  Oyl  alone, 
as  more  apt  to  communicate  and  diffuse  its  slipperiness, 
than  when  it  is  mingled  and  beaten  with  the  Acids,  which 
they  pour  on  last  of  all ;  and  it  is  incredible  how  small  a  quan- 
tity of  Oyl  thus  applied  is  sufficient  to  imbue  a  very  plentiful 
aasembly  of  Sallet  Herbs." 

Obs. — Our  own  directions  to  prepare  and  dress  Salads  will 
be  found  under  (No.  372.) 


THE 

COOK'S  ORACLE, 

See  Obs.  on  Cod  Fish  after  (No.  149.) 

FISH. 

Turbot  to  Boti.— (No.  140.) 

This  excellent  Fish  is  in  $eason  the.  greatest  part  of  the 
Summer, — ^when  good  it  is  at  once  firm  and  tender,  and 
aboimds  with  rich  gelatinous  nuitriment. 

Being  drawn,  and  washed  clean,  if  it  be  quite  fresh,  by 
rubbing  it  lightly  with  salt,  and  keeping  it  in  a  cold  place,  yoa 
may  in  moderate  weather  preserve  it  for  a  couple  of  days.* 

An  Hour  or  two  before  you,  dress  t£,  soak  it  in  spring 
water  with  some  salt  in  it, — ^then  score  the  skin  across  iStxd 
thickest  part  of  the  back,  to  prevent  it  breaking  on  the 
Breast,  which  will  hapj^en  from  the  fish  swelling,  and  crack- 
-J,. .1 1  ^1    I.I  II  ii«    ■ 

*  « I  have  ascertained,  by  vaoy  yeais'  observation,  that  a  Tuibot 
kept  two  or  three  days  is  much  better  eating  than  a  veiy  finesh  one.''— 
Ude's  Cookery,  p.  23&. 

<<  ToRBOTS.  The  finest  brought  to  the  London  market,  are  eaof^ 
offtbe  Dutch  coast,  or  German  ocean,  and  are  brought  in  weU-bools 
jtUve.  The  oommencement  of  th^  season  is  generally  about  Maitch  and 
April,  and  continues  all  the  summer.  Turbots,  like  other  fish,  do  not 
spawn  all  at  the  same  time;  therefore  there  is  always  good  and  bad 
nearly  all  the  year  round.  For  this  year  or  two  past,  there  has  been  an 
■  immense  quantity  brought  to  London,  from  all  parts,  and  of  all  qua- 
lities: a  great  many  from  a  new  fishery  oflT  Hartlepool,  which  area 
vei^  haiidsome  looking  turbot,  but  by  no  means  equal  to  what  are 
caaght  off  the  Dutch  coast.  Many  excellent  Turbots  are  caught  off 
Dover  and  Dungeness ;  and  a  large  quantity  brought  from  Scotland, 
packed  in  ice,  which  are  of  a  very  inferior  quality,  and  are  generally  to 
be  bought  for  about  one-fourth  the  price  of  good  turbots. 

'' j9rt7/if  are  generally  caught  at  the  same  place  as  turbots,.  and  ar& 
generally  of  the  same  quality  as  the  turbot^  from  tbe  different  paits^^ 


ran.'  IS9 

Mig  the  skin,  if  this  precaution  be  not  used.  ^Futaikrge 
hwdful  of  salt  into  a  nsh  kettle  with  cokl  irater,  lay  your 
&b  on  a  fish  strainer,  put  it  in,  and  when  it  is  coming  to  a 
boil,  skim  it  well ;  then  set  the  kettle  on  the  side  of  the  fire, 
to  boil  as  gently  as  possible  for  about  fifteen  or  twenty 
Qiinutes;  (if  it  .boils  ftst,  the  fish  will  break  to  pieces) ; 
supposing  it  a  middhng  sized  Turbot,  and  to  weigh  eight  or 
oioe  pounds. 

Rub  a  little  of  the  inside  Red  Coral  spawn  of  the  Lobster 
through  a  hair  sieve,  without  butter ;  and  when  the  Turbot 
is  dished,  sprinkle  the  spawn  over  it  Gramish  the  dudi 
vith  sprigs  of  curled  Parsley,  sliced  Lemon,  and  finely 
scraped  Horseradish. 

,  If  you  like  to  send  it  to  table  in  Full  Dress,  surround  it 
with  nicely  Fried  SmeUa  (No.  173), — Gudgeons  are  often 
^ised  for  this  purpose,  and  may  be  bought  very  cheap  when 
Smelts  are  very  dear;  lay  the  largest  opposite  the  broadest 
part  of  the  Turbot,  so  that  they  may  form  i  -weU-propor- 
^ped  fringe  for  it,— or  Oysters  (No.  183*),  or  cut  a  Sole  in 
s^ps,.  crosswaya^  about  the  size  of  a  Smelt;  fry  them ^as 
Erected  in  (No.  145,)  and  lay  them  round.  Send  up  Lob- 
^teF  sance  (No.  284),  two  boatt  of  it,  if  it  is  for  a  lai^ 
pwty. 

.  N.B.  Cold  Turbot,  with  (No.  372)  for  Sauce— or  take  oflF 
tbe  Fillets  that  are  left  as  soon  as  the  Turbot  returns  from' 
7able,  and  they  will  make  a  side  dish*  for  your  next  diimer, 
warmed  in  (No.  364),  (No.  2.) 

06«. — The  thickest  part  is  the  favourite,  and  the  Carver 
of  this  Fish  must  remember  to  ask  his  friends  if  they  are 
^if^rFawsiers.  It  will  save  a  troublesome  Job  to  the  Carver, 
if  the  Cook,  when  the  Fish  is  boiled,  cuts  the  spine-*bone 
^oss  the  middle. 

A  Britt— (No.  143.) 

Is  dressed  the  same  way  as  a  Turbot. 

Soles  to  BoO,— (No.  144.) 

A'  fine  fresh  Thick  Sole,  is  almost  as  good  eating  as  a 
Tujrbot. 
Wash  and  dean  it  nicely;  put  it  into  a  fish-kettle  with  a 


too  FISS. 

handful  of  salt,'  and  as  vouch  cold  water  as  wjil  cover  it ;  set 
it  on  ihe  side  of  the  fire,  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  let 
it  boil  gently,  about  five  minutes  (according  to  its  si2e)^  wifl 
be  long  enough,  unless  it  be  very  large. '  Send  it  up  on  a 
fish-drainer  garnished  with  slices  of  Lemon  and  8{)rigs  ci 
cui'led  Parsley,  or  nicely  fried  Smelts  (No.  173),  or  Orsters 
(No.  183.) 

Obs, — Slions  of  Lemon  are  a  universally  acceptable  gar* 
nish,  with  either  fried  or  broiled  fish:— -a  few  Sprigs  of  crisp 
Parsley  may  be  added,  if  you  wish  to  make  it  look  very 
smart;  and  Parsley,  or  Fennel  and  Butter,  are  excellent 
sauces,  9ee  (No.  26i),  and  (Now  265),  or  Chervil  sauce 
(No.  264),  Anchovy  (No.  270.) 

N.  B.  Boiled  Soles  cere  very  good  warmed  up  likeEek^ 
Wiggy's  way  (No.  164),  or  covered  with  White  Sauce  (No. 
364),  (No.  2),  and  see  (No.  158). 

S0LES9  OR  OTHER  Fish,  to  Fry. — (No.  145.} 

Soles  are  generally  to  be  procured  good  from  some  part  of 
the  coast,  as  some  are  going  out  of  season,  and  some  coming 
in,  both  at  the  same  time ;  a  great  many  are  brouc;^ht  in  well- 
boats,  alive,  that  are  caught  off  Dover,  and  Folkstone,  and 
some  are  brought  from  the  same  places  by  land,  carriages 
The  finest  Soles  are  caught  off  Plymouth,  near  theEddistone, 
and  all  the  way  up  the  Channel,  and  to  Torbay ;  and  fr&> 
quently  weigh  eight  or  ten  pounds  per  pair:  they  are  generally 
brought  by  water  to  Portsmouth,  and  thence  by  land ;  but 
the  greatest  quantity  are  caught  off  Yarmouth  and  the  Knole, 
and  off  the  Forelands. 

Be  sure  they  are  quite  fresh^  or  the  cleverest  Cook  cannot 
make  them  either  look,  or  eat  well. 

An  Hour  before  you  intend  to  dress  theniy  wash  them 
thoroughly,  and  wrap  them  in  .a  clean  cloth,  to  make  them 
perfectly  dry,-H>r  the  Bread  crumbs  will  not  stick  to  them. 

Prepare  some  Bread  Crumbs j*  by  rubbing  some  stale 
bread  through  a  Cullender;  or,  if  you  wish  the  Fish  to 

*  A  laige  pair  of  Solei  will  take  the  focrth  part  of  a  quartern  Loaf» 
vbich  now  oasts  two-penoe  halfpenny.  OatmbaEi  is  a  good  substituta 
for  Biead  Cruitabs— and  oiwu  eoaparatiTely  nocbing  1 1 


FISHk  201 

appear  very  delicate  and  highly  finished,  throngb  a  Hair 
Sieve,  or  use  Biscuit  Powder. 

Beat  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  Egg  well  together^  on  a 
plate,  with  a  fork ;-— flour  your  fish  to  absorb  any  moisture 
that  may  remain,  and  wipe  it  off  with  a  clean  cloth  ^— dip 
them  in  the  egg  on  both  sides  all  over,  or,  what  is  better,  egg 
them  with  a  paste  brush;  put  the  E^  on  in  an  even' degree 
over  the  whole  Fish,  or  the  bread  ctumbs  will  not  stick  to  it 
even — and  the  uneven  part  will  bum  to  the  pan. — Strew  the 
Bread  Crumbs  all  over  the  Fish,  so  that  they  cover  every 
part,— take  up  the  Fish  by  the  head,  and  shake  off  the  loose 
trumbs.     The  Fish  is  now  ready  for  the  Fryingpan. 

Put  a  Quart  or  more  of  fresh  sweet  Olive  Oil,  or  Clarified 
Butter  (No.  259),  Dripping  (No.  83),  Lard,*  or  Clarified 
Drippings  (No.  83) ;  be  sure  they  are  quite  sweet  and  per- 
fectly clean;  f^the  Fat  ought  to  cover  the  Fish: J  what  we 
here  order,  is  for  Soles  about  ten  inches  long, — ^if  larger,  cut 
thim  into  pieces  the  proper  size  to  help  at  table;  this  will 
save  much  time  and  trouble  to  the  Carver,— when  you  send 
them  to  table,  lay  them  in  the  same  form  they  were  before 
they  were  cut,  and  you  may  strew  a  little  curled  Parsley 
over  them :  they  are  much  easier  managed  in  the  Fryingpan, 
and  require  less. Fat;  fry  the  Thick  part  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore" you  put  in  the  TTiin — you  can  by  this  means  only  fry 
the  Uiick  part  enough,  without  frying  the  fhin  too  much. 
Very  Large  Soles  should  be  boiled  (No.  144),  or  fried  in 
Filiets  (No.  147).  Soles  ciU  in  pieces,  crosswayi,  aboiUthe 
nzeofa  Smelty  make  a  very  pretty  gamishy  for  stewed  Fish, 
^d  boiled  Fish. 

Set  the  fryingpan  over  a  sharp  and  clear  fire ;  watch  it, 
^kiiii  it  with  an  Egg  slice,  and  when  it  boils,  f  u  e.  when  it 
has  done  bubbling,  and  the  smoke  just  begins  to  rise  from 
the  surface,  put  in  the  Fish:— -if  the  Fat  is  not  extremely  hot^ 
it  is  impossible  to  fry  Fish  of  a  good  colour,  or  to  keep  them 


.abm 


*  Thb  FA't  will  dn'Two  or  Three  U'meM,  if  Rtralo^d  through  a  hair 
<^e,  aad  put  hy ;  if  you  do  not  find  it  enougb,  put  a  little  fresh  to  it. 
&ead  (No.  83),  and  the  3d  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  Cookery. 

t  This  requires  a  heat  of  upwards  of  600  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's 
^rmometer— FRviNO  is,  in  fact,  Boiling  in  Fat. 

k5 


202  FISH, 

£rm  auQd  cri^pt  (read  the  3d  Chapter  of  the  Radiments  of 
Cookery.) 

TheheStvfzy  to. ascertain  the  Jieat  of  the  Fat,  ia  to  try  it 
with  a  bit  of  bread  as  big  as  a  nut ;  if  it  is  quite  hot  enough, 
the  bread  will  brown  immediately.  Put  in  the  Fish,  and  it  will 
be  crisp  and  brown  on  the  side  next  the  fire,  in  about  four 
or  five  minutes ;  to  turn  it,  stick  a  two-pronged  fork  near 
the  head,  and  support  the  tail  with  a  fish-slice,  and  fry  the 
other  side  nearly  the  same  length  of  time. 

Fry  One  Sole  at  a  time,  except  the  pan  is  very  large,  and 
you  have  plenty  of  fat. 

When  the  Fish  are  fried,  lay  them  on  a  soft  cloth  (M 
table  cloths  are  best),  near  enough  the  fire  to  keep  them 
warm ;  turn  them  every  two  or  three  minutes^  tUl.they  are 
quite  dry  on  both  sides — ^this,  common  Cooks  commonly 
neglect.  It  will  take. ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  *  if  the  Fat  you 
fried  them  in  was  not  hot  enough ;  when  it  is,  they  want 
very  little  drying.  When  Soles  arefried^  they  will  keep  very 
aood  in  a  dry  place  for  three  or  four  days;  warm  them^  ^ 
Jmnging  them  on  the  hooks  in  a  Dutch  oven,  letting  them  heat 
very  gradually,  by  putting  it  some  distance  from  the  fire  for 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  in  good  Gravy,  as  Eels,  Wiggv'S 
WAY,  (Nos.  164,  299,  337,  or  356.) 

Obs. — -There  are  several  general  rules  in  this  Receipt 
which  apply  to  all  Fried  Fish : — we  have  been  very  paid* 
Cular  and  minute  in  our  directions;  for,  although  a  Fried 
^le  is  so  frequent  and  favourite  a  dish,  it  is  very  seldom 
brtM^ht  to  table  in  perfection,  f 


*  If  you  are  in  haute,  lay  the  Sole  on  a  clean  soft  elotb,  cover  it  witk 

U%  and  gently  press  it  upon  the  fish  to  suck  up  the  fat  from  its  surface. 

t  The  very  indifferent  manner  in  which  the  operation  of  frying  fish 

fs  utually  performed,  we  suppose,  produced  the  {oUamngJemd'etprit, 

which  api  eared  in  The  Morning  Chrcnicle:— 

"  The  King's  Bench  Reports  have  cookM  up  an  odd  dti^ 
An  action  for  damages,  Fry  versus  Fish. 
But  surf , if  for  damages  action  could  lie. 
It  certainly  niust  have  been  Fi^h  against  FryJ^ 
The  author  of  the  Cook^s  Cookery,  8vo.  page  116^  does  not  leeai  t«> 
tlink  this  fish  can  be  too  fresh ;  for  he  commences  his  disectiMM  with,. 
«^  Jff  you  can,  g;et  a  Cod  hot  out  of  the  Sea/'  ^c*. 


SaU8toStew.—{l^o.Ue.) 

These  are  half  fried,  and  then  done  the  same  as  £els» 
Wifgy's  waif.    See  (No.  164.) 

Fillets  of  Solesy  Brown  or  ]^i(«.— (No.  147.) 

Take  off  4he  Fillets  very  nicely,  trim  them  neatly,  and 
press  them  dry  between  a  soft  cloth ;  Egg,  Crumb,  and  Fry 
them,  &e.  as  directed  in  (No.  145),  or  boil  them,  and  serve 
them  with  (No.  364),  (No.  2.) 

N.  B.  This  is  one  of  the  best  ways  of  dressing  very  large 
Soles.    See  also  (No.  164.) 

5Aate— (No.  148.) 

Is  very  good  when  in  good  season,  bat  no  fish  so  bad 
when  it  is  otherwise:  those  persons  that  like  it  firm  and 
dry,  should  have  it  crimped ;  but  those  ihil  like  it  tender, 
should  have  it  plain,  and  eat  it  not  earlitf  than  the  second 
day,  and  if  cold  weather,  three  or  four  days  old  it  is  better: 
it  cannot  be  kept  too  long,  if  perfectly  sweet  Young  Skate 
«ts  very  fine,  crimped  and  fried,  see  (No.  154.) 

Cod  Boilei— (No.  149.) 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish,  and  rub  a  little  salt  in  the  inside 
of  it:  (if  the  weather  is  very  cold,  a  large  cod  is  the  better 
for  being  kept  a  day) :  put  plenty  of  water  in  your  fish 
kettle,  so  that  the  fish  may  be  well  covered ;  put  in  a  large 
handful  of  salt:  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  in  your  fish; 
a  very  small  fish  will  require  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes, 
after  the  water  boils, — a  large  one  about  half  an  hour ;  drain 
it  on  the  fish  plate ;  dish  it  with  a  garnish  of  the  Roe,  Liver, 
Chitterlings,  &c.;  or  large  native  Oysters,  fried  a  light 
brown,  see  (iNo.  183*),  or  Smelts  (No.  173),  Whitiiigs 
(No.  153),  the  teal*  of  the  Cod  cut  in  slices  or  bits,  the  size 


^  The  TAiii  is  90  moch  thinner  thaii  Xhk  thick  part  of  the  body,  that,  if 
Med  together,  the  former  will  be  boiled  too  much— before  the  latter 
^  done  enottgh-!— therefore  it  should  be  dressed  separate,  and  the  best 
^&y  of  cooking  it  is  to  fiy  it  in  Slices  or  Fillets;  see  (No.  151.) 

*'  Cod  generally  comes  into  good  season  in  October,  when,  if  the 
weather  is  cold,  it  eats  as  fine  as  at  aay  time  in  the  year ;  towards  the 


204  FISB. 

and  shape  of  Oyster^ — or  split  it — and  fry  it.  Scalloped 
C^ers  (No.  182),  Oyster  Sauce  (No,  278).  Slices  of 
Cod  cut  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fried  as  Soles,  (No. 
145,)  are  very  nice.    . 

Mem. — Tfie  Sounds, — ^the  jelly  parts  about  the  Jo^,— 
the  Palate, — and  the  'longue,  are  esteemed  exquisites  by 
piscivorous  Epicures — whose  longing  Eyes  will  keep  a  sharp 
look-out  for  a  share  of  their  favourite  *^  Bonne  Bouche:^* — 
the  Carver's  reputation  depends  much  on  his  equitable  dis- 
tribution of  them. 

.       Salt  Fish  Boi/cd.— (No.  150.) 

Salted  Fish  requires  Soaking^  according  to  live  time  it  has 
been  in  Salt; — trust  not  to  those  you  buy  it  of,  but  taste  a 
bit  of  one  of  the  flakes ;  that  which  is  hard  and  dry^  re- 
Quires  two  nights  soaking,  changing  the  water  two  or  three 
times;  the  intermediate  day,  lay  it  on  a  stone  floor; — for 


latter  eiKTof  January,  and  February,  and  part  of  March,  they  are  mostly 
poor ;  but  tbe  latter  end  of  March,  April,  and  May,  tbey  are  generally 
particularly  fine, .having  shot  their  spawn,  they  come  in  fine  order,  lie 
Dogger-Bank  Cod  are  the  most  esteemed,  as  they  generally  cut  in 
lai^  fine  flakes ;  the  north  country  Cod,  which  are  caught  off  the  Ork- 
ney Isles,  are  generally  very  stringy,  or  what  is  commonly  called 
woolly ^  and  sell  at  a  very  inferior  price,  but  are  caught  in  much  greater 
abundance  than  the  Dogger  Cod.  The  Cod  are  all  caught  with  hook, 
and  brought  alive  in  well-boats  to  the  London  markets.  The  Cod 
cured  on  the  Dogger-Bank  is  remarkably  fine,  and  seldom  cured  above 
two  or  three  weeks  before  brought  to  market;  Xhe  Barrel  Cod  is  com- 
monly  cured  on  the  coast  of  Scotland  and  Yorkshire.  There  is  a  gieat 
deal  of  inferior  cured  salt  fish  brought  f.om  Newfoundland  and  Iceland. 

"  The  Skull  of  a  Dogger-Bank  Cod  is  one  of  those  concatenations 
of  f/f  biUf  which  some  epicures  are  fond  of  either  baked  or  boiled:  it 
is  composed  of  lots  of  pretty  playthings  or  such  finery,  but  will  not  do 
for  those  who  want  a  good  Aieal:  it  may  be  bought  for  about  Za.  — 
either  boil  it  whole,  or  cut  it  into  pieces— flour  and  dry  them,  and  then 
egg  and  crumb,  and  firy  them,  or  stew  it  (No.  158.) 

"  The  TAIL  of  a  Cod  cut  in  fillets,  or  slices,  and  fried,  mak^s  a  good 
dish,  and  generally  to  be  bought  at  a  very  reasonable  rate ;-  jf  boiled,  it 
is  soft  and  watery.  The  Skull  and  Tail  of  a  Cod  is  a  favourite  and  ei- 
cellent  Scotch  dish,  stewed,  and  served  up  with  Anchovy  or  Oyster 
Sauce,  with  tbe  liquor  it  is  boiled  in,  in  a  Tureen. 

*'  Ling  is  brought  to  the  London  market  in  the  same  manner  aa  Cod, 
but  is  very  inferior  to  it,  either  fresh  or  salt.*' 


FI8H.  205 

BarreUed  Cod^  less  time  will  do ;  and  foi*  the  best  Dogger 
Bonk  Split  Fish,  which  has  not  been  more  than  a  fortnight 
or  three  weeks  in  salt,  still  less  will  be  needful* 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gendy 
till  it  is  enough — if  the  water  boils,  the  Fish  will  be  tough 
and  thready.*  For  Egg  sauce,  see  (No.  267),  and  to  boil 
Red  Beetroot  (No.  127),  Parsnips  (No.  128),  Carrots  (No. 
129).  Garnish  Salt  Fish  with  the  yolks  of  Eggs,  cut  into 
quarters. 

Obs, — Our  favourite  vegetable  accompaniment  is  a  dKsh  of 
equal  parts  of  Red  Beetroot  and  Parsnips. 

N.  B.  Salted  Fish  differs  in  QucUity  quite  as  mnd^  <u 
it  does  in  Price, 

Slices  of  Cod  Boifcd— (No.  151.) 

Hcdf  an  Hour  before  you  dress  thenii  put  them  inlo  cold 
spring  water  with  some  salt  in  it. 

Lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  fish-kettle,  with  as  much  cold 
spring  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  some  salt ;  set  it  on 
a  quick  fire,  and  when  it  boih,  skim  it,  and  set  it  on  'one 
side  of  the  fire  to  boil  very  gently,  for  about  ten  minutes, 
according  to  its  size  and  thickness.  Garnish  with  scraped 
Horseradish,  slices  of  Lemon,  and  a  slice  of  the  Liver  on 
one  side,  and  Chitterling  on  the  other.  Oyster  Sauce  (No. 
278),  and  Plain  Butter. 

Obs. — Slices  op  Con  (especially  the  Tail,  split,)  are 
VBRY  GOOD,  FRIED  KAc  Soles  (No.  145),  or  stewed  ia  Gravy 
like  Eels  (No.  164),  or  (No.  364,  No.  2.) 

Fresh  Siwrjcon.— (No.  152.) 

The  best  mode  of  dressing  this,  is  to  have  it  cat  in  thin 

slices  like  Veal  Cutlets,  and  broiled,  and  rubbed  over  with 

-'  -  -  ■     _  -  ■  ,^ 

*  <*  In  the  sea-port  towns  of  tbe  New  England  States  in  North  Ame* 
lica,  it  bsi  been  a  cu^om,  time  immemorial,  among^  people  of  fashion, 
todinet>ne  day  in  the  week  (Saturday)  on  Salt  Fish, — and  a  ion|; 
babit  of  preparintc  the  same  dish  has,  as  might  have  been  OKpeoted,  led 
to  very  considerable  improvements  in  the  art  of  cooking  it.  I  bare 
eftren  heard  foreigners  declare^  thai  they  never  tasted  Salt  Fish  dressed 
in  such  perfection  ;  the  secret  vf  Cooking  it,  is  to  keep  it  for  several 
bonrs  in  water  that  is  Just  scalding  hot,  but  which  is  never  made  actuaUy 
to  boil.^^— Count  Rumpobd's  10th  Essa^^  p.  18. 


E06  visy. 

a  bit  of  Butter  and  a  little  Pepper,  and  served  very 
hot,  aod  eaten  with  a  squeeze  of  Lemon  Juice.  Great  care, 
however,  must  be  taken  to  cut  off  the  skin  before  it  is  broiled, 
as  the  oil  in  the  skin,  if  burnt,  in^parts  a  disgusting  flavour 
to  the  fish.  The  flesh  is  very  fine,  and  comes  nearer  to  Vea)^ 
perhaps,  than  even  Turtle. 

Sturgeon  is  frequently  plentiful  and  reasonable  in  the 
London  shops.  We  prefer  this  mode  of  dressing  it  to  the 
more  savoury  one  of  stewine  it  in  rich  gravy,  like  Carp,  &c. 
which  overpowers  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the  fish. 

Whitings  fWc(£.— (No.  153.) 

Skin* them,  preserve  the  Liver,  see  (No.  228), and  fasten 
their  Tails  to  their  Mouths;  dip  them  in  egg,  tnen  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard,  read  (No.  145) ; — or 
split  them,  and  fiy  thiem  like  fillets  of  Soles  (No.  147). 

A  three  quart  stewpan,  half  full  of  fat,  is  the  best  utensil 
to  fry  Whitings.  They  will  be  done  enough  in  about  five 
minutes — ^but  it  will  sometimes  require  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
to  drain  the  fat  from  them  and  dry  them  (if  the  fat  you  put 
them  into  was,  not  hot  enough),  turning  them  now  and  then 
with  a  Fish  Slice. 

Ohs, — When  Whitings  are  scarce,  the  Fishmongers  can 
njlcin'and  truss  young  Codlings^  so  that  you  can  hardly  tell 
4he  difference,  except  that  a  Codling  wears  a  Beard,  and  a 
Whiting  does  not  :^this  distinguishing  mark  is  sometimes 
cut  off ;  however,  if  you  turn  up  his  Jowl,  you  may  see  the 
mark  where  the  Beard  was,  and  thus  discover. whether  He 
be  a  Real  Whiting,—  or  a  Skaved  Codling. 

iSSiafc  Fried— (No.  154.) 

After  you  have  cleaned  the  fish,  divide  it  into  fillets,  dry 
them  on  a  clean  cloth;  beat  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egs^ 
thoroughly. together,  dip  the  fish  in  this,  and  then  in  fine 
bread  crumbs ;  fry  it  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  it  is  of*  a 
delicate  brown  colour;  lay  it  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain;  gar- 
nish with  Crisp  Parsley  (No.  318) — and  some  like  Caper 

Sauce,  with  an  Anchovy  in  it. 

■"■  ■   '-■         ,  ■■  ■     .         ■ .,  -  _ ■ .,  - ,       ■  ■     ...         ^'.        ^ 

*  The  French  do  not  flay  them— but  split  them— dip  them  iaflow^ 
fad- fiy  thein  in  hot  dripping. 


FI8H.  207 

Plaice  or  Flounders  Fried^  or  Bot7«/,— -(No,  155.) 

Ftoupders  are  perhaps  the  most  difScnlt  fish  to  fry  very 
Dicdy.  Clean  them  well,  flour  them,  and  wipe  them  with 
a  dry  doth  to  absorb  all  the  water  from  them ;  Hour  or  egg 
and  bread  crumb  them,  &c.  as  directed  in  (No.  145). 

To  Boil  Flounders. 

Wash  and  clean  them  well,  cut  the  black  sid^  of  them  the 
wme  as  you  do  Turbot,  then  put  them  into  a  fish-kettle,  with 
plenty  of  cold  water  and  a  handful  of  salt;  when  they  come 
to  a  boil,  scum  them  clean,  and  let  them  stand  by  the  side  of 
the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  ihey  are  ready. 

06^.— Eateti  with  plain  melted  butter  and  a  little  salt,  you 
have  the  sweet  delicate  flavour  of  the  Flounder^— which  is 
overpowered  by  any  sauce. 

Water  Souchij*—(^o.  156.) 

Is  made  with  Flounders,  Whitings,  Gudgeons,  or  Eels. 
These  must  be  quite  /resh^  and  very  nicely  cleaned;  fof 
what  they  are  boiled  in,  is  the  sauce  for  them. 

Wash,  gut,  and  trim  your  Fish,  cut  them  into  handsome 
pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  just  as  much  water 
as  will  cover  them,  with  some  parsley,  or  parsley  roots 
sliced,  an  onion  minced  fine,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt:  (to 
this  some  Cooks  add  some  scraped  Horseradish  and  a  Bay 
leaf;)  skim  it  carefully  when  it  boils ;  when  your  fish  is 
clone  enough  (which  it  will  be  m  a  few  minutes),  send  it  up 
i^  a  deep  dish,  lined  with  bread  sippets,  and  some  slices  of 
hfead  and  butter  on  a  plate. 

06*. — Some  Cooks  thicken  the  liquor  the  Fish  has  been 
stewing  in  with  flour  and  butter,  and  flavour  it  with  white 
wine,  Lemon  juice.  Essence  of  Anchovy,  and  Catsup— and 
Wl  down  two  or  three  Flounders,  &c.  to  make  a  fish  broth, 
to  boil  the  other  fish  in,  observing,  that  the  Broth  cannot  be 
good,  unless  the  Fish  are  boiled  too  much. 

•*•'  l*»  .-n.^.—  1^      ■        I  --il  ■  III         ■■        I    I  ■■         -in  III  ;.     ., 

*  One  of  my  CuliDary  Counsellors  says,  the  heading  Qf  this  Receipt 
should  be,  *'  How  to  dress  a  good  dish  of  Fish  while  the  Cloth  is  lafr 
^*''  If  the  articles  artr  ready,  twelve  minutes  witl  do  it,  with  very 
litde  trouble  or  expense.    For  richer  stewed  Fish,  see  (No.  Id4 .) 


208  FISH. 

Haddock  BoiW.— (No.  157.) 

Wash  it  well,  and  put  it  on  to  boil,  as  directed  in  (Np.l49); 
a  Haddock  of  Uiree  pounds  will  take  about  ten,  minutes  after 
the  kettle  boils. 

Haddocks  salted  a  day  or  two,  are  eaten  with  egg  sauce, 
or  cut  in  fillets,  and  fried.  Or,  if  small,  very  well  broiled,  or 
baked,  with  a  pudding  in  their  belly,  and  some  good  gravy. 

Obs, — A  Piscivorous  Epicure  protests  that  *^  Haddock  h 
the  poorest  fish  that  swims,  and  has  neither  the  delicacy  of 
the  Whiting,  nor  the  juiciness  of  the  Cod." 

Findkom  Haddoch.^^i^o.  157.*) 

Let  the  Fish  be  well  cleaned  and  laid  in  Salt  for  two  hours, 
let  tlie  water  drain  from  them,  and  then  wet  them  with  the 
Pyroligneous  ocu/,-*— they  may  be  split  or  not, — they  are 
then  to  be  hung  in  a  dry  situation  for  a  day  or  two^  or  a 
week  or  two,  if  you  please;  when  broiled,  they  have  all  the 
flavour  of  the  Findhorn  Haddock,  and  will  keep  sweet  for  a 
long  time. 

The  Pyroligneous  acid,  applied  in  the  same  way  to  Beef  or 
Mutton,  gives  the  fine  smoke  flavour,  and  may  be  kept  for  a 
considerable  length  of  time. 

Scotch  way  of  dressing  Haddocks, — A.  Haddock  is  quite 
like  a  different  fish  in  London  and  in  Edinburgh,  which 
arises  chiefly  from  the  manner  in  which  they  are  treated: 
a  Haddock  should  never  appear  at  table  with  its  head  and 
skin  on.  For  boiling,  they  are  all  the  better  for  lying  a 
iHght  in  salt;  of  course  they  do  not  take  so  long  to  boil  witL- 
out  the  skin,  and  require  to  be  well  skimmed  to  preserve  the 
colour.— After  lying  in  salt  for  a  night,  if  you  hang  them  up 
for  a  day  or  two,  they  are  very  good  broiled  and  served  with 
cold  butter.  For  frying^  they  should  be  split  and  boned 
very  carefully,  and  divided  into  convenient  pieces,  if  too 
large  to  halve  merely ;  egg  and  crumb  them,  and  fry  in  a 
good  deal  of  lard ;  they  resemble  soles  when  dressed  in  this 
mainner.  There  is  another  very  delicate  mode  of  dressing 
them ;  you  split  the  fish,  rub  it  well  with  butter,  and  do  it 
before  the  fire  in  the  Dutch-oven. 


FISH.  209 

To  stew  Cod's  Skully  SoIeSj  Carp,  Trottt^  Perchj  Ed, 
or  Flounder.— (J!lo.  15%.)— See  also  (No.  164.) 

When  the  Fi^  ha«  heen  properly  washed,  lay  it  in  a  stew-* 
pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  Claret  or  Port  wine,  and  a  quart  of 
c;ood  gravy  (No.  329 ;) — a  large  onion,  a  dozen  berries  of 
black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves,  or  a  bit 
of  mace ;  cover  the  fish-kettle  close,  and  let  it  stew  gently 
for  ten  or  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the 
fish :  take  the  fish  up,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  it  up,  and 
thicken  the  liquor  it  was  stewed  in  with  a  little  flour,  and  sea* 
son  it  with  Pepper,  Salt,  Essence  of  Anchovy,  Mushroom 
Catsup,  and  a  little  Chili  Vinegar ;  when  it  has  boiled  ten 
minutesy  strain  it  through  a  tammis,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish : 
if  there  is  more  sauce  than  the  dish  will  hold,  send  the  rest 
up  in  a  boat 

.  The  River  TrotU  comes  into  season  in  April,  and  continues 
till  July  ;  it  is  a  delicious  fish ;  those  caught  near  Uxbridge 
come  to  town  quite  alive. 
The  Eels  and  PercA,  from  the  same  water,  are  very  fine. 
Ofc#.<.— These  fish  are  very  nice  plain  boiled,  with  (No. 
261,)  or  (No.  264,)  for  sauce;  some  Cooks  dredge  them  with 
flour,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown  before  they  put  them  on  to 
stew, — and  stufi*  them  with  (No.  374,)  or  some  of  the  stuff- 
ings following. 

To  Dress  them  Maigre. 

Pot  the  Fish  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  large  Onion^  Ibur 
Cloves,  fifteen  berries  of  Allspice,  and  the  same  black  pep- 
per-*^ust  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  set  it  where 
they  will  simmer  gently  for  ten  or  twenty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  Fish ;  strain  off  the  Uquor  in  another 
stewpan,  leaving  the  Fish  to  keep  warm  till  the  Sauce  is 
ready. 

Rub  together  on  a  plate  as  much  flour  and  butter  as  will 
make  the  Sauce  as  thick  as  a  double  Cream.  Each  PUU  oj 
Sauce  season  with  a  glass  of  Wine,  half  as  much  Mushroom 
Catsup,  a  tea-spooniful  of  Essence  of  Anchovy,  and  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  put  the  Fish  on 


210  FISH. 

a  deep  dish,  strain  the  Gravy  over  it ;  garnish  it  with  Sippets 
of  Bread  toasted  or  fried  (No.  319.) 

N.B.  The  Editor  has  paid  particular  attention  to  the  above 
Receipt — and  also  to  {No.  224,)  which  Catholics^  and  thom 
whose  Religums  tenets  do  not  allow  them  to  eat  Meat  on  Maim 
Dayst  will  find  a  very  satisfectory  substitute  for  the  Meat 
Gravy  Soup  (No.  200.) 

,   Fpr  Saucb  for  Maigre  Dishes,  see  (Nos.  225^  305,  and 
364,  No.  2.) 

Obs. — Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  and  Onions  (No.  402^) 
supply  the  place  of  Meat  better  than  any  thing  ;  if  you  have 
pot  these,  Wine — Spice  (No.  457,) — Curry  Powder  (No. 
455,)  Aromatic  Roots  and  Herbs,— Anchovy  and  Soy,— or 
Oyster  Catsup  (No.  441,)  variously  combined,  and  thickened 
with  flour  and  butter,  are  convenient  substitutes* 

Maigre  Fish  Pies. 

Salt  Fish  Pie, — The  thickest  part  must  be  chosen,  and  put 
in  cold  water  to  soak  the  night  before  wanted ;  then  boil  it 
well,  take  it  up,  take  away  the  bones  and  skin,  and  if  it  is 
good  fish  it  will  be  in  fine  layers ;  set.  it  on  a  fishrdrainer  to 
get  cold:  in  the  mean  time  boil  four' e§^s  h^ird,.  peel  and 
slice  them  very  thin,  the  same  quantity  of  onion  sliced  thin, 
line  the  boUom  of  a  Pie  dish  with  Fish  forcemeat,  (Na ' 
383,)  or  a  layer  of  potatoes  sliced  thin, — ^then  a  layer  of 
onions,  then  of  fish,  and  of  eggs,  and  so  on  till  the  aish  is 
full ;  season  each  layer  with  a  little  pepper,  then  mix  a  tea-  ' 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  the  same  of  Essence  of  Anchovy, 
a  little  Mushroom  Catsup  in  a  gill  of  water,  put  it  inthe  dim, 
then  put  on  the  top  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter  broke  in  bits, 
cover  it  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  it  one  hour. 

Fresh  Cod  may  be  done  in  the  same  way,  by  adding  a  litde 
salt. 

AH  Fish  for  making  Pies,  whether  Soles,  Flounden, 
Herrings,  Salmon,- Lobster,  Eels,  Trout,  Tench,  &c.  should 
be  dressed  first ;  this  is  the  most  Economical  way  for  CathK^ 
&milies,  as  what  is  boiled  one  day,  will  make  excellent  Pies, 
or  Patties  the  next. 

If  you  intend  it  for  Pies,  take  the  skin  off,  and  the  bones 


FISH.  211 

out|  ]ay  ypuF  Salmon,  Soles,  Turbot,  or  Cod-fish  in  layers, 
and  season  each  layer  with  equal  quantities  of  pepper,  all- 
^ce,  mace,  and  salt,  till  the  dish  is  full, — save  a  little  of  the 
liquor  that  the  fish  was  boiled  in,  set  it  on  the  fire  with  the 
bones  and  skin  of  the  fish  ;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
strain  it  through  a  sieve,  let  it  settle,  and  pour  it  in  the  dish, 
coyer  it  with  puff  paste,  bake  it  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 
Shrimps,  prawns,  or  oysters  added,  will  improve  the  above ; 
if  for  Patties,  they  must  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  dressed 
in  a  Beshamell  sauce,  (No.  364.) 

Cod  Sounds  for  a  pie  should  be  soaked  at  least  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  well  washed,  and  put  on  a  cloth  to  dry,— 
put  in  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  with  four  ounces 
of  sliced  onions,  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown,  then  put  in  a 
small  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water ;  when  smooth,  put  in  about  ten  Cod-sounds,  and  sea- 
son them  with  a  little  pepper,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  tea- 
s(xx>nful  of  Essence  of  Anchovy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon; 
stir  it  well  together,  put  it  in  a  pie-dish,  cover  it  with  paste, 
and  bake  it  one  hour. 

Perck,  Roachy  Dace,  Gudgeons^  ^.  fhed.— (No.  159.) 

Wash  the  Fish  well,— wipe  them  on  a  dry  cloth, — ^flour 
them  lightly  all  over,  and  fry  them  ten  minutes,  see  (No. 
145,)  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  ;  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to 
drain ;  send  them  up  on  a  hot  dish,  garnished  with  spri^  of 
green  parsley.    Anchovy  sauce  (No.  270,)  and  (No.  433.) 

Perch  Boiled.— (^o.  160.) 

Clean  them  carefully,  and  put  (hem  in  a  fish-kettle,  with 
^  much  cold  spring  water  as  will  cover  them,  with  a  handful 
of  salt;  set  them  on  a  quick  fire  till  they  boil;  when  they 
Wl,  set  them  on  one  side  to  boil  gently  for  about  ten  minutes, 
according  to  their  size. 

Salmon,  Herrings,  Sprats,  Mackerel,  ^c.  Pickled. 

(No.  161.) 

Cot  the  Fish  into  proper  pieces,  do  not  take  off  the  scales 
—make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  E^,  in  which  boil 
the  Fish— it  must  be  boiled  in  only  just  liquor  enough  to 


212  FISH. 

cover  it — do  not  overboil  it.  When  the  fish  is  boiled,  by  it 
slantinely  to  drain  off  all  the  liquor — when  cold,  pack  itcloae 
in  the  kits,  and  fill  them  up  with  eqnal  parts  of  the  liqtiortbe 
Salmon  was  boiled  iu  (having  first  well  skimmed  it,)  and  best 
Vine^r  (No.  24) ;  let  them  rest  for  a  day,  fill  up  again,  strtk* 
ina;  the  sides  of  the  kit  with  a  Cooper's  Adze,  until  the  lot 
wiU  meeive  no  more — ^then  head  them  down  as  close  at 
possible. 

Obs, — This  is  in  the  finest  condition  vfhen  freih,  Salmon 
is  most  plentiful  about  Midsummer ;  the  season  for  it,  is  from 
February  to  September.  Some  sprigs  of  fresh  gathered  young 
Fennel-— are  the  accompaniments. 

N.B.  The  three  indispensable  marks  of  the  goodness  of 
Picked  Salmon,  are,  1st, — The  brightness  of  the  scales,  and 
their  sticking  fest  to  the  skin ;  2dly,  The  firmness  of  the  flesh; 
and  thirdly,  its  fine  pale  red  rose  colour : — ^without  these  it  is 
not  fit  to  eat,  and  was  either  stale  before  it  ivas  pickled,  or 
has  been  kept  too  long  after. 

The  above  was  given  us  as  the  actual  practice  of  those  who 
pickle  it  for  the  London  market. 

N.B.  Pickled  Fcdmon^  warmed  by  steam,  or  in  its  pickle 
liquor,  is  a  fevourite  dish  at  Newcastle. 

Salmon*  SotTcA— (No.  162.) 
Put  on  a  fish-kettle,  with  spring  water  enough  to  well  cover 


ri«A. 


*  Sal  MOV.  The  earliest  that  comes  in  seasoQ  to  the  London  mar- 
ket, is  brought  from  the  Severn,  and  begins  to  come  into  season  the  be- 
aming of  November,  but  very  few  so  early,  perhaps  not  above  one  ia 
iUtf ,  as  nany  of  them  will  not  shoot  their  spawn  till  Januaiy,  or  after, 
and  then  continue  in  season  till  October,  when  they  be^rin  to  g9t  veiy 
thin  aod  poor.  The  principal  supply  of  salmon  is  from  different  parts  of 
Socftland,  paclced  in  ice,  uad  brought  by  water :  if  the  vessels  have  a  fair 
wind,  they  will  be  in  London  in  three  days ;  bnt  it  frequently  happeiii 
that  they  are  at  sea  perhaps  a  fortnight,  when  the  greater  part  of  the 
fish  is  p«*rished,  and  has,  for  a  year  or  two  past,  sold  as  low  as  two- 
pence per  pound,  and  up  to  as  much  as  eighteen  pence  per  pound  at  the 
same  time,  owing  to  iu  different  degrees  of  goodness.  This  acoooats 
for  the  very  low  prices  at  which  the  itinerant  fishmongers  cry  their 
«*  delicate  Salmon,*'  "  dainty  fresh  Salmon,"  and  **  Live  Cod,**  "  Mfif 
Maekarei,**  ifec.  <fec 


FISH.  213 

the  Salmon  you  are  going  to  dress,  or  the  Salmon  will  neither 
kok  nor  taste  well :  (boil  the  Liver  in  a  separate  saucepan.) 
When  the  water  boils,  put  in  a  handful  of  salt,  take  on  the 
seam  as  soon  as  it  rises,  hare  the  €sh  well  washed,  put  it  in, 
and  if  it  is  thick,  let  it  boil  very  gently,  Salmon  requires  al- 
most as  much  boiling  as  Meat,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
a  pound  of  fish  ;  but  practice  only  can  perfect  the  Cook  in 
dressing  Salmon ; — a  quarter  of  a  Salmon  will  take  almost  as 
long  boiling  as  half  a  one :  you  must  consider  the  Thicknesi — 
not  th  Weight — ^ten  pounds  of  fine  full-grown  ^Salmon  will 
be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  quarter.     Lobster  Sauce  (No.  284.) 

Obs, — ^The  thinnest  part  of  the  Fish,  is.  the  fattest,  and  if 
you  have  a  **  Grand  Gourmand"  at  table,  ask  him  if  he  is  . 
for  thick  or  Thin. 

The  Thames  Salmon  is  preferred  in  the  London  Market, 
and  some  Epicures  pretend  to  be  able  to  distinguish  by  the . 
tiste,  in  which  reacn  of  the  River  it  was  caught ! ! ! 

N.B.  If  you  have  any  left^  put  it  into  a  pie-dish,  and  cover 
it  with  an  equal  portion  of  Vinegar  and  Pump- water,  and  a 
little  tali;  it  will  be  ready  in  three  days. 

Fresh  Salmon  Broiled.— (No.  163.) 

Clean  the  Salmon  well,  and  cut  it  into  slices  about  an  inch 
and  a  half  thick ;  dry  it  thoroushly  in  a  cleaif  cloih,  rub  it 
over  with  sweet  oil,  or  thick  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  it ;  put  your  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  at  some 
distance;  when  it  is  Iwt,  wipe  it  clean,  rub  it  with  sweet  oil 
or  lard ;  lay  the  salmon  on,  and  when  it  is  done  on  one  side, 
tuni  it  gently  and  broil  the  other.     Anchovy  sauce,  &c. 

Olu* — An  oven  does  them  best. 


*'  Salmon  Gtoilts,  or  Salmon  Peel,  are  the  small  salmon  which  come 
fltei  about  five  or  six  pounds  to  ten  pounds,  are  very  good  fish,  and 
make  handsome  dishes  offish,  sent  to  table  crooked  in  the  form  of  an  S/ 

^^  Berwick  Trout  are  a  distinct  fish  from  the  gwilt^,  and  are  caught 
in  tile  River  Tweed,  and  dre&sed  in  the  same  manner  as  the  g^wilt. 

"  Calvered  Salmon  is  the  salmon  caught  in  the  Thames,  and  cut  into 
>&ce)  alive ;  and  some  few  salmon  are  brought  from  Oxford  to  London 
aiire,  and  cut.  A  few  slices  make  a  handsome,  genteel  dish,  but  i« 
CeoeraUy  very  expensive ;  sometimes  l<5s.  per  pound." 


214  FISH. 

Sole$  or  EelSy*  Sfc.  ^c.  stewed  Wigoy's  way. 

(No.  1  (54.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  fine  silver  f  Eels ; — ^the  best  are  those 
that  are  rather  more  than  a  half-crown  piece  in  ciicmfr- 
ference,  quite  fresh,  full  of  life,  and  **  as  orisk  as  an  Ed;^ 
sucll  as  have  been  kept  out  of  water  till  they  can  scarce  stir, 
are  good  for  nothing.  Gut  them,  rub  them  with  salt  till  the 
slime  is  cleaned  from  them,  wash  them  in  several  difierenl 
waters,  and  divide  them  into  pieces  about  four  inches  long. 

Some  Cooks,  after  skinning  them,  dredge  them  with  a 
little  flour,  wipe  them  dry,  and  then  egg  and  crumb  them, 
and  fry  them  in  drippings  till  they  are  brown,  and  lay  them 
to  dry  on  a  hair  sieve. 

Have  ready  a  quart  of  good  Beef  Gravy  (No.  329) ;  it  mufit 
be  cold  when  you  put  the  Eels  into  it;  set  them  on  a  slow 
fire  to  simmer  very  gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  eels ; — watch  them  that  they  are 
not  done  too  much ; — take  them  carefully  out  of  the  stewpan 
with  a  fish  slice,  so  as  not  to  tear  their  coats,  and  lay  them 
on  a  dish  about  two  inches  deep. 

Or,  if /or  Maigre  Days,  when  you  have  skinned  your 
Eels,  throw  the  skins  into  salt  and  water,  wash  them  well, 
and  then  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  water,  two 
onions,  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  each,  and  one  blade  of 
mace:  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  strain  it  through  a 
sieve  in  a  basfn. 

Make  the  Sauce  about  as  thick  as  cream,  by  mixing  a  little 
flour  with  it ;  put  in  also  two  table-spoonsful  of  Port  wine, 
and  one  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  Cavice ;  stir  it  into  tbe 
sauce  by  degrees,  give  it  a  boil,  and  strain  it  to  the  fish 
through  a  sieve. 

N.B.  If  Mushroom  Sauce  (Nos.  225,  305,  or  333),  ot 


*  Small  Fisband  Fillets  of  Whiting,  Turbots,  Brills,  <&c.  and  slkei 
o^Cod,  or  tbe  head  or  tail  of  it,  are  excellent,  dressed  tbe  same  way. 

t  The  Yellow  Eels  taste  maddy :  the  fFhiteneas  of  the  belly  of  tbs 
fish,  is  not  tbe  only  mark  to  know  tbe  best ;  tbe  right  coloar  of  the  back 
is  a  very  bright  coppery  hue ;  the  Olive  coloured  are  inferior  ;  and  tbosv 
tending  to  a  green  are-worse. 


FnH^r  215 

White  Sauce  (No.  364,  No.  2),  be  used  instead  of  Beef 
Gravy,  this  will  be  one  of  the  most  relishing  Maigre  dishes 
we  know, 

Obs. — To  kill  Eek  instantly,  without  the  horrid  torture  of 
cofitiBg  and  skinning  them  alive,  pierce  the  spinal  marrow, 
cbse  to  the  back  part  of  the  skull,  with  a  sharp  pointed 
dc^er :  if  this  be  done  in  the  right  place,  all  motion  will 
idstaiitly  cease. — ^The  humane  Executioner  does  certain  cri- 
ibmals  the  favour  to  hang  them,  before  he  breaks  them  on 
the  wheel. 

To  fry  Eefo.— (No.  165.) 

Skin  and  gut  them,  and  wash  them  well  in  coM  water»s 
cut  them  in  pieces  four  inches  long,  season  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  beat  an  egg  well  on  a  plate,  dip  them  in  the 
egg,  and  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs ;  fry  them  in  fresh  clean 
hffd,  drain  them  well  from  the  fat ;  garnish  with  crisp  pars- 
ley;— for  Sattce,  plain  and  melted  butter,  sharpened  with 
lemon  juice,  or  Parsley  and  Butter. 

Spitchcocked  Eels, — (No.  166.) 

This  the  French  Cooks  call  the  English  way  of  dressing 
Eds. 

Take  two  middling-sized  silver  Eels,  leave  the  skin  on, 
scour' fliem  with  salt,  and  wash  them,  cut  off  the  heads,  slit 
them  on  the  belly  side,  and  take  out  the  bone  and  guts,  and 
wash  and  wipe  them  nicely,  then  cut  them  into  pieces  about 
three  inches  long,  and  wipe  them  quite  dry,  put  two  ounces 
of  butter  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  minced  parsley,  thyme, 
sage,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  very  little  chopped  shallot ;  set 
the  stewpan  over  the  fire ;  when  the  butter  is  melted,  stir 
the  ingredients  together,  and  take  it  off  the  fire,  mix  the, 
yolks  of  two  eggs  with  them,  and  dip  the  Eel  in,  a  piece  at 
a  time,  and  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  making  as  much 
stick  to  them  as  you  can ;  then  rub  a  gridiron  with  a  bit  of 
twi,  set  it  high  over  a  very  clear  fire,  and  broil  your  Eels  of 
a  fine  crisp  brown :  dish  them  with  crisp  parsley,  and  send 
up  with  plain  butter  in  a  boat,  and  anchovy  and  butter. 

Obs. — ^We  like  them  better  with  the  skin  off;  it  is  very 
apt  to  offend  delicate  stomachs. 


91Q  FISH. 

Mackarel  Boiled. — (No.    67.) 

This  Fish  loses  its  life  as  sood  as  it  leaves  the  Sea^  and 
the  fresher  it  is  the  better. 

Wash  and  dean  them  thoroughly^  (the  fishmongers  seldom 
do  this  sufficiently,)  put  them  into  cold  water  with  a  handfiil 
of  salt  in  it ;  let  them  rather  simmer,  than  boil ;  a  smali 
markarel  will  be  enough  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour: 
when  the  Eye  starts  and  the  Tail  splits, — ^they  are  done ;  do 
not  let  them  stand  in  the  water  a  moment  after ;  they  are  so 
delicate,  that  the  heat  of  the  water  will  break  them. 

This  fish,  in  London,  is  rarely  fresh  enough  to  appear  at 
table  in  perfection  ;  and  either  the  Macharel  is  boiled  too 
much,  or  the  Roe*  too  little.  The  best  way  is  to  open  a 
slit  opposite  the  middle  of  the  roe,  you  can  then  clean  it 
propeiiy ;  this  will  allow  the  water  access,  and  the  roe  will 
then  be  done  as  soon  as  the  fish,  which  it  seldom  is  other- 
wise ;  some  sagacious  gourmands  insist  upon  it  they  must  be 
taken  out  and  boiled  separately.  For  sauce,  see  (Nos.  263, 
265,  and  266),  and.  you  may  garnish  them  with  pats  of 
minced  Fennel. 

N.  B.  The  common  notion  is,  that  Mackarel  are  in  best 
condition  when  fullest  of  Roe  ;— however,  the  Fish  at  that 
time  is  only  valuable  for  its  Roe,-^the  Meat  of  it  has  scarcely 
any  flavour. 

Macharel  generally  make  their  appearance  oflf  the  Land^s 
End  about  the  beginning  of  April ;  and  as  the  weather  gets 
warm,  they  gradually  come  round  the  coast,  and  generally 
arrive  off  Brighton  about  May,  and  continue  for  some  months, 
until  they  begin  to  shoot  their  spawn. 

After  they  have  let  go  their  Roes,  they  are  called  shotteo 
mackarel,  and  are  not  worth  catching,  the  Roe,  which  was  all 
that  was  good  of  them,  being  gone. 

It  is  in  the  early  season^  when  they  have  least  Roe^  thai 
the  fiesh  of  this  Fish  is  in  highest  perfection.  There  is  also 
an  after-season,  when  s^  few  fine  large  Mackarel  are  takea 

^ , , ^ 

*  The  Rasof  the  Male  Fish  it  soft,  like  the  brains  of  a  Calf,— that 
of  the  Female  is  full  of  small  eggs,  ^nd  called  hard  Roe. 


FISH.  217 

(t.  €.  during  the  Herring'season,  about  October,)  which  some 
piscivorous  Epicures  are  very  partial  to, — ^these  fish  having 
'  had  time  to  fatten  and  recover  their  Health,  are  full  of  high 
flavour,  and  their  flesh  is  firm  and  juicy :  they  are  commonly 
called  Stiver  Mackarelt  from  their  beautiful  appearance,  their  ' 
colour  being  almost  as  bright  when  boiled,  .as  it  was  the  ^ 
moment  they  were  caught. 

Mackarel  Broiled, — (No.  16P.) 

Clean  a  fine  large  mackarel,  wipe  it  on  a  dry  cloth,  and  . 
cut  a  long  slit  down  the  back  j  lay  it  on  a  clean  gridiron, 
over  a  very  clear  slow  fire ;  when  it  is  done  on  one  sid^^ 
turn  it ;  be  careful  that  it  does  not  bum ;  send  it  up  with 
Fennel  sauce  (No.  265) ;  mix  well  together  a  little  finely 
minced  Fennel  and  Parsley,  seasoned  with  a  little  Pepper 
and  Salt,  a  bit  of  fresh  Butter,  and  when  the  Mackarel  are  . 
ready  for  the  table,  put  some  of  this  into  each  fish, 

Mackarel  Baked. — (No.  170.) 

Cut  off  their  heads,  open  them,  and  take  out  the  roes  and 
clean  them  thoroughly ;  rub  them  on  the  inside  with  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  put  the  roes  in  a^ain,  season  them  (with  a 
mixture  of  powdered  allspice,  black  pepper  and  salt,  well 
rubbed  together),  and  lay  them  close  in  a  baking  pan,  cover 
them  with  equal  quantities  of  cold  vinegar  and  water,  tie 
them  down  with  strong  white  paper  doubled,  and  bake  them  . 
for  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.     They  will  keep  for  a  fortpight. 

Pickled  McLckarely  Herrings,  or  Sprats. — (No.  171.) 

Procure  them  as  fresh  as  possible,  split  them,  take  off  the 
heads,  and  trim  off  the  thin  part  of  the  belly,  put  them  into 
salt  arid  water  for  one  hour,  drain  and  wipe  your  fish,  and 
put  them  into  jars  or  casks,  with  the  following  preparation,  . 
which  is  enough  for  three  dozen  Mackarel.  Take  salt  and 
bay  salt,  one  pound  each,  saltpetre  and  lump  sugar,  two 
ounces  each ;  grind  and  pound  the  salt,  &c.  well  together, 
put  the  fish  into  jars  or  casks,  with  a  layer  of  the  preparation 
at  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  mackarel  with  the  skin  side 
downwards,  so  continue  altemately  till  the  cask  or  jar  is  fu)!; 
press  it  down  and  cover  it  close.  In  about  three  months  they 
will  be  fit  for  use. 


218  FISH. 

.  Sprcds  Broiled.^(No.  170.*)— fnW,  see  (No.  173.) 

;  If  you  have  not  a  Sprat  Gridiron,  get  a  piece  of  pointed 
iron-wire  as  thick  as  packthread,  and  as  long  as  your  grid- 
iron is  broad ;:  run  this  through  the  heads  of  your  sprats^ 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  and  salt  over  them, — put  your  gridiroa 
over  a  clear  quick  fire,  turn  them  in  about  a  couple  of  mi- 
nutes ;  when  the  other  side  is  brown,  draw  out  the  wire>  and 
send  up  the  fish  with  melted  butter  in  a  cup. 

Obs.' — That  Sprats  are  young  Herrings,  is  evident  by  their 
anatomy,  in  which  there  is  no  perceptible  difference.  They 
appear  very  soon  after  the  Hernngs  are  gone,  and  seem  to  be 
the  spawn  just  vivified. 

Sprats  5<eu;crf.— (No.  1 70.  **) 

Wash  and  dry  your  Spn  ts,  and  lay  them  as  level  as  you 
can  in  a  stewpan,  and  between  every  layer  of  Sprats  pat 
three  peppercorns,  and  as  many  allspice,  with  a  few  grains 
of  salt ;  iMirely  cover  them  with  vinegar,  and  stew  them  one 
hour  over  a  slow  fire;  they  must  not  boil;  a  bay  leaf  is 
sometimes  added.  Herrings  or  Mackarel  may  be  stewed  the 
same  way. 

To  Fry  Sprats,  see  (No.  173.) 

Herrings  Broiled. — (No.  171  *.) 

Wash  them  well,  then  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  du§t  them 
with  flour,  and  broil  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  well 
done.    Send  up  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

065t-^For  a  particular  account  of  Herrings,  see  ^las 
DoDD's  JVafetraf /fwr.  ofHerrings,  in  178  pageaSvo.  1752. 

Red  Herrings,  and  other  Dried  Fish — (No.  172.) 

"  Should  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner  now  practised 
,by  the  Poor  in  Scotland.  They  soak  them  in  water  until 
they  become  pretty  firesh ;  they  are  then  hung  up  in  the  Sun 
arid  Wind,  on  a  stick  thrpugh  their  Eyes,  to  dry ;  and  then 
boiled  or  broiled.  In  this  way,  they  eat  almost  as  well  as  if 
they  were  n^w  caught.*' — See  the  Hon.  Jx>iin.  Cpchrajnjb's 
Seaman's  Guide,. Svo4  1797 1  p.  34m 

'  <*  Scotch  Haddocks. should  be  soaked  all  night*  You  may 
boil  or  broil  them ;  if  you  broil,  split  thein  in  two. 


' 


FISH/  219 

■  "  All  the  different  sorts  of  Dried  fishy  except  Stock  Fiah, 

—«re salted,  dried  in  the  Sun,  in  prepared  kilns,,  or  hy  the 

smoke  of   wood  fires;  and  require   to  be  softened^  and 

freshened,  in  proportion  to  their  bulk,  nature,  or  dryness ; 

tbe  very  dry  sort,  as  Cbd,  Whiting,  &c.  should  be  steeped  in 

lukewarm  water,  kept  as  near  as  possible  to  an  equal  degree 

of  heat  j     The  larger  Fish  should  be  steeped  twelve  hours: 

the  smaller  about  two ;  after  which  they  should  be  taken  out 

and  hung  up  by  the  tails  until  they  are  dressed.     The  reason 

for  baling  them  up  is  that  they  soflen  equally  as  in  the 

steeping,  without  extracting  too  much  of  the  relish,  which 

woold  render  them  insipid.     When  thus  prepared,  the  smaU 

Jahy  as  Whiting,  Tusks,  &c.  should  be  floured  and  laid  on 

the  gridiron ;  and  when  a  little  hardened  on  one  side,  must 

be  turned  and  basted  with  sweet  oil  upon  a  feather;  and 

when  basted  on  both  sides,  and  well  heated  through,  taken 

up.    A  clear  charcoal  fire  is  the  best  for  oooking  them,  and 

the  Fish  should  be  kept  at  a  good  distance  to  broil  gradually. 

When  they  are  enough  they  will  swell  a  little  in  the  basting, 

and  you'  must  not  let  them  fall  again.     If  boiled,  as. the 

larger  fish  generally  are,  they  should  be  kept  just  simmering 

over  an  equal  fire,  in  which  way  half  an  hour  will  do  the 

largest  fish,  and  five  minutes  the  smallest. 

^^  Dried  Salmon,  though  a  large  fish,  does  not  require 
more  steeping  than  a  Whiting ;  and  when  laid  on  the  grid- 
iron should  be  moderately  peppered.  To  Herring  and  to  all 
kinds  of  broiled  Salt  Fish,  sweet  oil  is  the  best  basting.'* 

The  above  is  from  Macdonald's  London  Family  Cook, 
8vo.  1808,  p.  139. 

Obs, — Dr.  Harte,  in  his  Essay  on  Diet,  1633,  folio,  p.  91, 
protests  "  a  Red  Herring  doth  nourish  little,,  and  is  hard  of 
concoction,  but  very  good  to  make  a  cup  of  good  drink  relish 
^U,  and  may  be  weU  called  *  The  Drunkard* s  Delight.' " 

SmeUs,  Crudgeons,  Sprats,  or  other  small  Fish  fried. 

(No.  173.) 

Clean  and  dry  them  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  fry  them  plain, 

^beat  &n  e^  on  a  plate,  dip  them  in  it,  and  then  in  very 

pe  bredd  criitobs  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve ; 

Smaller  the  Fish,  the  finer  should  be  the  bread  crumby—- 

L  2 


220.  FISH.: 

Biscuit  Powder  is  still  better ;  fry  them  in  plenty  of  clettn 
lard,  or  drippings ;  as  soon  as  the  lard  boils  and  is  still ,  put 
in  the  fish,  as  soon  as  they  are  delicately  browned,  they  arei 
done ;  this  will  hardly  take  two  minutes.  Drain  them  on  a 
hair  sieve,  placed  before  the  fire,  turning  them  till  quite  dry. 
065.— Read  (No.  145.) 

.  "  Smelts  are  allowed  to  be  caught  in  the  Thames,  on  the 
first  of  November,  and  continue  till  May.  The  Thames 
smelts  are  the  best  and  sweetest,  for  two  reasons ;  they  are- 
fresher  and  richer,  than  any  other  you  can  get :  they  catch 
them  much  more  plentiful  and  lai^er  in  Lancashire  and.  Nor- 
folk, but  not  so  good :  a  great  many  are  brought  to  town  from 
Norfolk,  but  barely  come  good,  as  they  are  a  fish  which  should 
always  be  eaten  fresh ;  indeed  all  river  Fish  should  be  eaten 
fresh,  except  Salmon,  which,  unless  crimped,  eats  better  the 
second  or  third  day :  but  all  Thames  fish,  particularly,  should- 
be  eaten  very  fresh ;  no  fish  eats  so  bad  kept." 

Potted  Prawns,  Shrimpsy  or  Cray-Jish. —  (No.  175.) 

Boil  them  in  water,  with  plenty  of  Salt  in  it.  When  you 
have  picked  them,  powder  them  with  a  little  beaten  mace, 
or  grated  nutmeg,  or  allspice,  and  pepper  and  salt;  add  a* 
little  cold  butterj  and  pound  all  well  together  in  a  marble 
mortar  till  of  the  consistence  of  paste.'  Put  it  into  pots 
covered  with  clarified  butter,  and  cover  them  over  with  wetted 
bladder. 

Lobster.--^  [No.  176.) 

'  Buy  these  Aliv€y — the  Lobster  Merchants  sometimes  k^ep 
them  till  they  are  starved,  before  they  boil  them ;  they  are 
then  watery,  and  have  not  half  their  flavour,  and  like  other 
Persons  that  die  of  a  Consumption- — have  lost  the  Calf  of 
their  Legs, 

Choose  those  that  (as  an  old  Cook  says,  are  "  Heavy  and 
Lively y^"^  and)  are  fiiU  of  motion,  which  is  the  Index  of  tbeir 
'  freshness. 

Those  of  the  middle  size  are  the  best.  Kever  take  them 
when  the  shell  is  incrusted,  which  is  a  sio^a  they  are  Old.  The 
Male  Lobster  is  preferred  to  Eat,  and  the  Female  (on  ac- 
count of  the  Hggs)  to  make  Sauce  of.     The  Hen  Lobster  \% 


tisB.  221 

clistinguished  by  having  a  broader  Tail  than  the  Male,  and 

less  Claws. 

Set  oa  ■  a  pot,  with  water  salted  in  the  proportion  of  a 
-  table-spoonful  of  salt'  to  a  quart  of  vrater :  when  the  water 

boils  put  it  in;  and  keep  it  boiling  briskly  ftom  half  an  hour 

to  an  hour,  according  to  its  size ;  wipe  all  the  scum  off  it, 
v.and  rub  the  shell  with  a  very  little  butter  or  sweet  oil ;  break 

off  the  great  claws,  crack  them  carefully  in  each  joint,  so 
•  that  they  may  not  be  shattered,  and  yet  come  to  pieces  easily, 
«cut  the  tail  down  the  middle,  and  send  up  the  body  whole. 

For  Sauce  (No.  285.)     To  pot  Lobster  (Wo.  178). 

♦»*  These  Fish  come  in  about  Aprils  and  continue  plenti" 
'fultill  the  Oyster  season  returns  ;  after  that  time  they  begin 

to  spawn,  and  seldom  open  solid. 

Cra6.— (No.  177.) 

The  above  observations  apply  to  Crabs,   which  should 
neither  be  too  small  nor  too  large.     The  best  size  are  those 
rwhich  measure  about  eight  inches  across  the  shoulders. 

*^*  Crabs  appear  and  disappear  about  the  same  time  as 
Lobsters^     The  Cromer  Crabs  are  most  esteemed^  but  num* 
•herS'OTe  brought  from  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

Potted  Lobster  or  Cro^.— (No.  178.) 

,  This  must  be  made  with  fine  Hen  Lobsters  when  fall  of 
spawn;  boil  them  thoroughly,  see  (No.  176) ;  when  cold, 
pick  out  all  the  solid  meat,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar ;  it  is 

.  usual  to  add,  by  degrees,  (a  very  little)  finely  pounded  mace, 
black  or  Cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and,  while  pounding,  a  little 
butter.     When  the  whole  is  well  mixed,  and  beat  to  the 

•  consistence  of  paste,  press  it  down  hard  in  a  preserving*- 

'  pot,  pour  clarified  butter  over  it,  and  cover  it  with  wetted 

.bladder. 

Obs. — Some  put  Lobster  without  pounding  it,  and  only 

-cut.  it  or  pull  it  into  such  pieces  as  if  it  was  prepared  for 
sauce,  and  mince  it  with  the  spawn  and  soft  parts  and  sea- 

.soning,  and  press  it  together  as  close  as  possible ;  in  packing 
it  place  the  coral  and  spawn,  &c.  in  layers,  so  that  it  may 
look  regular  and  handsome  when  cut  out.  If  you  intend  it 
as  store  (see  N.  B  to  (No.  284)  to  make  sauce  with),  this  is 


222  FISH. 

the  best  way  to  do  it — ^but  if  for  Sapdwichiesy  .&c«  the  first  is 
the  best,  and  will  keep  much  longer. 

Dressed  or  Buttered  Lobsters  and  Crabs,  are  fa- 
vourite ornamental  dishes  with  those  who  deck  their  ta[bk 
merely  to  please  the  Eye.  Our  apology  for  not  giving  snch 
receipts  will  be  found  in  Obs,  to  (No.  322). 

OYSTERS*— (^0.  181.) 

The  comipon  f  Colchester  and  Feversham  Oyslers  aie 
brought  to  market  on  thie  5th  of  August ; — ^the  Milt<Ni,  or  as 
they  are  commonly  called,  the  melting  ^atttes^X  do  not 
come  in  till  the  beginning  of  October,  continue  in  season  till 
the  12th  of  May,  and  approach  the  meridian  of  their  perfec- 
tion about  Christmas. 

Some  piscivorous  Gourmands  think  that  Oysters  are  not 
best  when  quite  fresh  from  their  beds,  and  that  their  flavour 
is  too  brackish  and  harsh,  and  is  much  ameliorated  by  giving 
them  a  feed,  ^ 

To  Peed§  Oysters. — Cover  them  with  clean  water,  with 
a  pint  of  salt  to  about  two  gallons  (nothing  else,  no  oatmeal, 
flour,  nor  any  other  trumpeiy) ;  this  will  cleanse  them  from 
the  mud  and  sand,  &c.  of  the  bed ;  after  they  have  lain  in  it 
twelve  hours,  change  it  for  fresh  salt  and  water,  and  ie 
twelve  hours  more  they  will  be  in  prime  order  for  the  Mouth, 
and  remain  so  two  or  three  days : — at  the  time  of  high  W^ter, 
you  may  see  them  open  their  shells,  in  expectation  of  receiv- 

*  Oyster  Sauce  (No.  278),  Preserved  Oysters  (No.  280). 

t  Those  are  callpd  Common  Oysters  which  are  picked  up  on  tlie 
French  coast^  and  laid  in  the  Colchester  beds. 

These  are  never  so  fine  and  fat  as  the  Natives^  and  seldom  lecover 
the  shock  their  feelings  receive^  from  being  tcansported  from  their  na- 
tive place; — delicate  little  Creatures,  they  are  as  exquisite  in  their  own 
taste,  as  they  are  to  the  taste  of  others .' 

I  Oysters  are  thus  called,  that  are  bom,  as  well  as  bred  and  fed  in 
this  country>  and  are  mostly  ,spit  in  the  Bumham  and  Mersey  nvers; 
they  do  not  come  to  their  finest  condition  till  they  are  near  four  yean 
old. 

§  Will  Rabisha,  in  his  Receipt  to  "hroil  oysters,'*  (see  his 
Cookery,  page  144),  directs,  that  while  they  are  undergoing  this  oper- 
ation, they  should  be  fed  with  white  wine  and  grated  bread. 

In  Boyle's  Works,  4to.  1772.  Vol.  2,  p.  450,  there  is  a  very  cu- 
rious Chapter  on  Eating  op  Otstbss, 


FISH.  223 

itag  their  usual  food.    This  process  of  feeding  oysters,  is  only 
employed  when  a  great  many  come  up  together. 

The  REAL  Colchester,  or  Pyfleet  Barrelled  Oysters^ 
that  are  packed  at  the  beds,  are  better  without  being  put  iti 
water ;  they  are  carefully  and  tightly  packed,  and  must  not 
be  disturbed  till  wanted  for  table:  these,  in  moderate 
weather,  will  keep  good  for  a  week  or  ten  days. 

If  an  Oyster  opens  his  mouth  in  the  barrel,  he  dies  imme- 
diately. 

To  preserve  the  lives  of  Barrelled  Oysters^  put  a  heavy 
weight  on  the  wooden  top  of  the  barrel,  which  is  to  be  placed 
on  the  surface  of  the  oysters.  This  is  to  be  effected  by  re- 
moving the  hrst  hoop,  the  staves  will  then  spread  and  stand 
erect,  making  a  wide  opening  for  the  head  of  the  barrel  to 
liadl  down  closely  on  the  remaining  fish,  keeping  them  close 
together. 

Mem. — ^The  Oysters  which  are  commonly  sold  as  Bani- 
relied  Oystersj  are  merely  the  smallest  natives,  selected  from 
the  stock,  and  put  into  the .  Tub  when  ordered ;  and,  in- 
stead of  being  of  superior  quality,  are  often  very  inferior. 
To  immature  Animals,  there  is  the  same  objection,  as  to  un- 
ripe vegetables. 

Obs. — Common  people  are  indifferent  about  the  manner 
of  opening  Oysters,  and  the  time  of  eating  them  after  they  are 
opened ;  nothing,  however,,  is  more  important  in  the  enlight- 
ened eyes  of  the  experienced  Oyster  eater. 

Those  who  wish  to  enjoy  this. delicious  restorative  in-ifs 
utmost  perfection,  must  eat  it  the  moment  it  is  opened^  with 
its  own  gravy  in  the  under  shell : — if  not  Eaten  while  Mso- 
ItUely  Alive,  its  flavour  and  spirit  are  lost. 

The  true  lover  of  an  Oyster,  will  have  some  regard  for  the 
feelings  of  his  little  favourite,  and  will  never  abandon  it  to 
the  mercy  of  a  bungling  operator, — ^but  will  open  it  himself, 
and  contrive  to  detach  the  Fish  from  the  shell  so  dexterously, 
that  the  Oyster  is  hardly  conscious  he  has  been  ejected  from 
his  Lodging,  till  he  feels  the  teeth  of  the  piscivorous  GouT" 
mand  tickling  him  to  death. 

•  N.  B.  Fish  is  less  nutritious  than  Flesh :  as  a  proof,  when 
the  trainer  of  Newmarket  wishes  to  waste  a  Jockey,  he  is  not 
allowed  Meat,  not  even  Pudding,  if  Fish  can  be  had.     The 


224  FISH. 

white  kinds  of  Fish,  Turbots,  Soles,  Whiting,  Cod,I&dd6cK 
Flounders,  Smelts,  &c.  are  less  nutritions  than  the  oily  £at 
Fish,  such  as  Eels,  Salmon,  Herrings,  Sprats,  &c. ;  the  lat- 
ter, however,  are  more  difficult  to  digest,  and  often  disturb 
weak  stomachs,  so  that  they  are  obliged  to  call  in  the  assist- 
.  ance  of  Cayenne^  CogntaCy  6cc. 

Shell  Fish  have  long  held  a  high  rank  in  the  catalc^ue 
.of  easily  digestible  and  speedily  restorative  foods;  of  these 
the  Oyster  certainly  deserves  the  best  character,— but,  wc 
think  it  has  acquired  not  a  little  more  reputation  for  these 
qualities  than  it  deserves;  a  well-dressed  Chop*  or  Steak, 
see  (No.  94),  will  invigorate  the  Heart  in  a  much  higher 
ratio  i-r^o  racruit  the  Mnimal  spirits^  and  support  strength, 
there  is  nothing  equal  to  Animal  food, — when  kept  till  pro- 
perly tender,  none  will  give  so  little  trouble  to  the  Digestive 
organs,  and  so  much  substantial  excitement  to  the  Constito- 
tion.    See  note  under  (No.  185*). 

See  Dr»  Wallis  and  Mr.  Tyson*s  Papers  on  men's  feed- 
ing on  flesh,  in  Phil.  Trans.  Vol.  22,  p.  769  to  774 ;  and 
.Porphyry  on  Abstinence  from  Animal  Food,  translated  by 
Thomas  Taylor,  8vo.  1823. 

We  could  easily  say  as  much  in  praise  of  Muttpn,  as  Mr. 
Ritson  has  against  it,  in  his  *'  Essay  on  Abstinence  from 
Animal  Food,  as  a  Moral  Duty ^^  8vo.  London,  ]802,  p. 
.  102 .  He. says,  "  The  Pagan  Priests  were  the  first  eaters  of 
Animal  Food ;  it  corrupted  their  taste,  and  so  excited  them 
to  Gluttony,  that  when  they  had  eaten  the  same  thing  re- 
peatedly, their  luxurious  jippefites  called  for  variety.  He 
.who  had  devoured  the  Sheep,  longed  to  masticate  the  Shep- 
herd/// 

"  Nature  seems  to  have  provided  other  Animals  for  the 
food  of  man,  from  the  astonishing  increase  of  those  which 
instinct  points  out  to  him  as  peculiarly  desirable  for  that  pur- 

■      t-— --^l^^^  11  l-■^  —  ■-■   ■■■nil  I  ,  _■^■^,—      ■■^■     I    ■■  ■     ■  ,         ■    ■^     .  ■  ■  .   ■■  —■^P^p^     ■»    ■ 

I 

*  *'  Animal  food,  bein^  composed  of  the  most  DHtritiouB  parts  of  the 
.food  on  which  the  Animal,  lived,  and  having  already,  been  dige&ted  by 
the  proper  orgaas  of  an  animal,  requires  only  solution  and  raixturPi 
whereas  Vegetable  food  must  be  converted  into  a  substance  of  an  ani- 
mal nature,  by  the  proper  action  of  our  own  Viscera,  and  consequently 
requires  more  labour  of  the  Stomach,  and  other  digestive  oi^gans.*'— 
BoRTO^  on  the  Non'tiaturah,  page  213. 


nsft.  .   2Qo 

{Ase.  For  instance ;  sd  quick  is  the  prodace  of  Pigeons, 
that  in  the  space  of  four  years,  14,760  may  come  ^om  a 
single  pair,  ami  in  the  like  period,  1 ,274,840  ^m  a  couple 
of  rabbits, — ^this  is  nothing  to  the  millions  of  Eggs  in  the  milt 
of  a  Cod-fish.'* 

^2^e£?  0^5^6rs.-— (No.  182.) — A  good  way  to  warm  up 

any  cold  Fish. 

•  Stew  the  Oysters  slowly  in  their  own  liquor  for'  two  or 
three  minutes, — ^take  them  out  with  a  spoon,  beard  them, 
and  skim  the  liquor, — put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  when 
it  is  melted,  add  as  much  fine  bread  crumbs  ais  will  dry  it 
ve^^  then  put  to  it  the  Oyster  liquor,  and  give  it  a  boil  up,-— 
put  the  Oysters  into  Scollop-shells  that  you  have  buttered, 
and  strewed  with  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  Oysters,  then 
of  bread  crumbs,  and  then  some  more  Oysters,  moist  ?n  it 
with  the  Oyster  liquor,  cover  them  with  bread  crumbs,  put 
about  half  a  dozen  little  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each, 
and  brown  them  in  a  Dutch-oven. 

Obi, — Essence  of  Anchovy,  Catsup,  Cayenne,  grated 
Lemon-peel,  Mace,  and  other  Spices,  &c.  are  added  by  those 
who  prefer  piqwxnce  to  the  genuine  flavour  of  the  Oyster. 

Cold  Fish  may  be  re-dressed  the  same  way. 

N.  B.  Small  Scollop-shells,  or  Saucers  that  hold  about  half 
a  dozen  Oysters,  are  the  most  convenient. 

Stewed  Oysters.— {No.  182*.) 

Large  Oysters  will  do  for  stewing,  and  by  some  are  pre- 
ferred ;  but  we  love  the  plump,  juicy  Natives.  Stew  a  cou- 
ple of  dozen  of  these  in  their  own  liquor ; — when  they  are 
coming  to  a  boil,  skim  well,  take  them  up  and  beard  them ; 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  tammis  sieve,  and  lay  the  oysters 
on  a  dish.  Put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  when  it 
is  melted,  put  to  it  as  much' flour  a?  will  dry  it  up,  the  li- 
quoj^  of  the  Oysters,  and  three  table-spoonsful  of  milk  or 
^eabi,  and  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  to  this  some 
CoDks  add  a  little  Catsup,  or  flnely  chopped  Parsley,  grated 
Lemon-peel,  and  juice  ^  let  it  boil  up  for  a  couple  of  minutes, 
till  it  is  smooth,  then  take  it  off*  the  fire,  put  in  the  Oysters, 
and  let  4hem  get  warm ;  (they  must  not  themselves  be  boiled, 

h  5 


226  FI8B. 

or  they  will  beoome  hard ;)  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  «i 
hash  dish  with  bread  sippets,  and  pour  your  oysters  and 
sauce  into  it    See  ObsAo  Receipt  (No.  278). 

Oysters  Fried.— (No.  183.) 

The  largest  and  finest  Oysters  are  to  be  chosen  for  this 
purpose ;  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor  for  a  couple  of 
minutes, — ^takethem  out  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain, — 
beard  them  and  then  flour  them,^-e2g  and  bread  crumb 
than, — ^put  them  into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  them  a  delicate 
brown. 

Ohs.~^^n  elegant  garnish  for  Made  Dishes, — Stewed 
Rump  Steaks, — boiled  or  fried  Fish,  Sfc.  but  they  are  toe 
hard  and  dry  to  be  eaten. 


THE 

COOK'S   ORACLE. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

V 

Beef  Broth*-^[m.  IS5,) 

Wash  a  Leg  or  a  Shin  of  Beef  very  clean,  crack  the  bone 
in  two  or  three  places,  (this  you  should  desire  the  Butcher 
to  do  for  you,)  add  thereto  any  trimmings  you  have  of  Meat, 
Game,  or  Poultiy,  (u  c.  heads,  necks,  gizzards,  feet,  &c.) 
and  cover  them  with  cold  water, — ^watch  and  stir  it  ikp  well 
from  the  bottom,  and  the  moment  it  begins  to  simmer^  skim 
it  carefully — ^your  Broth  must  be  perfectly  clear  and  limpid, 
on  this  depends  the  goodness  ef  the  SoupSy  Sauces^  and 
Gravies  J  of  which  it  is  the  basis : — then  add  some  cold  water 
to  make  the  remaining  scum  rise,  and  skim  it  again ;  wh^n 
the  scum  has  done  rising,  and  the  surface  of  the  Broth  is 
quite  clear,  put  in  one  moderate-sized  Carrot,  a  head  of  Ce- 
lery, two  Turnips,  and  two  Onions, — ^it  should  not  l^ave  any 
taste  of  sweet  herbs,  spice,  or  garlic,  &c.,  either  of  these 
flavours  can  easily  be  added  immediately  after,  if  desired,  by 
(Nos.  420,  421,  422,  &c.)— cover  it  close,  set  it  by  the  side 
of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  (so  as  not  to  waste 
the  Broth)  for  four  or  five  hours,  or  more,  according  to  the 
weischt  of  the  Meat : — strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean 
and  dry,  storie  pan,  and  set  it  in  the  coldest  place  you  have; 

Obs, — This  is  the  foundation  for  all  sorts  of  Soups  and 
Sauces,  brown  or  white. 

Stew  Tio  longer  than  the  Meat  is  thoroughly  done  to  eat^ 
and  you  will  obtain  excellent  Broth,  without  depriving  the 
Meat  of  its  nutritious  succulence : — to  boil  it  to  rags,  as  is 

-   *  In  culinary  technicals,  is  called  ^irst  stock,  or  iong  Broth-^tn 
^e  French  Kitcheo, "  Le  Grand  Bouillon,*^ 


228  BROTHIB^  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

the  common  practice,  will  not  enrich  your  Broths,  but  mSke 
them  thick  and  grouty. 

The  Meat,*  when  gently  stewed  for  only  four  or  five  hours 
till  it  is  just  tender,  remains  abundantly  sapid  and  nourishing, 
and  will  afford  a  relishing  and  wholesome  meal  for  balf  a 
dozen  people;— or  make  Potted  Beef  (No.  503) :  orwhea 
yon  have  strained  off  the  Broth, — cover  the  meat  again  with 
water,  and  let  it  go  on  boiling  for  four  hours  longer,  and  make 
what  some  Cooks  call  "  Second  Stock," — ^it  will  produce 
some  very  good  Glaze^  or  Portable  Soup  ;  see  (No.  252) 
and  the  Obs.  thereon* 

Beef  Gravy.'f—i^o.  186.) 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan,  that  is  well  tinned  and 
quite  clean,  with  a  slice  of  good  Ham,  or  lean  Bacon,  four- 
or  five  pounds  of  Gravy  Beef  cut  into  half-pound  pieces,  a 
Carrot,  an  Onion  witb  two  Cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  a  head  of 
Celery ;  put  a  pint  of  Broth  or  water  to  it,  coyer  it  close,  and 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  till  the  water  is  reduced  to  as  little 
as  will  just  save  the  ingredients  from  burning ;  then  tarn  it 
all  about,  and  let  it  brown  slightly  and  equally  all  over; — 
then  put  in  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  j  J  when  it  boib 
up,  skim  it  carefully,  and  wipe  off  with  a  clean  cloth,  what 

T '-" ' — ■ '      ■  ••    -  ■  -      -  »l.   I  II    '     

*  A  doir  was  fed  on  the  richest  Broth,  3'et  obald  not  be  kept  tilive } 
wbile  another,  which  had  only  the  Meat  toiled  to  a  Chip,  (and  water^) 
throve  very  well.  This  shows  the  folly  of  attempting  to  nourish  Men 
1^  concentrated  SoupF,  Jellies^dic. — Sikcl.air,  Code  of  Health,  pMS^ 

If  this  experiment  be  accurate,  what  becomes  of  the  theoretic  visions 
of  th&se  who  have  written  about  nourtsbiD^  Broths,  ^c.  ?-^  The  Wt 
test  of  the  restorative  quality  of  Food,  is  a  smhill  quantity  of  it  satIs' 
tying  hunger,  the  strength  of  the  pulse  after  it,  and  the*.laigth  of  timt 
which  elapses  before  appetite  returns  again.  According  to  this  mle^ 
we  give  our  verdict  in  favour  of  (No.  10  or  24).  See  N.  h,  to  (No.  181^ 

This  subject  is  fully  discussed  in  *'  Thb  Art  of  Invigoratiivq  avd' 
PhobONOiNO  Lif  B,  BT  DiBT,(feo.''  published  by  G,B.  Wbittaker,  13, 
ATe-Maria  Lane. 

t  Called  in  some  Cookerv' Books,  ''Secovd  Stock,''— in  the  Piench 
KHchen,  *' Jus  dis  BaB^fy 

':    t  ^  S>^^t  deal  of  care  is  to  be  taken  to  w&tcb  the  tkne  of  putting  in 
Ibe  ^Rspter,— rif  it  is  poured  in  too  soon,  the  Gravy  will  not  have  its  tru« 
flnvour  JEind  ooldur ;— and  if  it  be  let  alone  till  the  Meat  sticks  to  tte' 
pan,  it  w  ffl  get  a  burnt  taste. 


BROTHS,  QBAVIESy  ANJ>  80UP8/  239 

Sticks  round  the  edge  and  inside  of  the  stewpan,  that  your 
gf*a.vy  may  be  delicately  clean,  and  clear.  Set  it  by  the  side 
of  a  fir^,  where  it  will  stew  gently  (to  keep  it  clear,  and  that 
it  may  not  be  reduced  too  much)  for  about  four  hours : — if  k 
has  not  boiled  too  fast,  there  should  be  two  quarts  of  good 
grai^  ;  strain  through  a  silk  or  tammis  sieve ;  take  very  par- 
mcular  care  to  skim  it  well;  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place. 


Strong  Savoury  Oravif — (No;  188,) — alias  "  Brown  &ii<e," 

a/uM  «*  Grand  EsPAGNOL." 

Take  a  stewpan  that  will  hold  four  quarts,  lay  a  slice  or 
two  of  Ham  or  Bacon  (about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  at 
the  bottom  (undressed  is  the  best,)  and  two  pounds  of  Beef, 
or  Veal,  a  (Jarrot,  a  large  Onion,  with  four  Cloves  stuck  in. 
it,  one  head  of  Celery,  a  bundle  of  Parsley,  Lemon-thyme, 
and  Savory,  about  as  big  round  as  your  little  finger,  when 
tied  dose,  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  Basil,  (one  Bay-leaf,  and  a 
Shallot,  if  you  like  it,)  a  piece  of  Lemon-peel,  and  a  doaen 
corns  of  Allspice  ;*  pour  on  this  half  a  pint  of  water,  cover 
it  dose,  and  let  it  simmer  eently  on  a  slow  fire  for  half  an 
hour,  in  which  time  it  will  be  almost  dry ;  watch  it  very 
dftrefully,  and  let  it  catch  a  nice  brown  colour,— turn  the 
Meat,  &c*  let  it  brown  on  all  sides ;  add  three  pints  of  boil- 
ing water,f  and  boil  for  a  couple  of  hours.  It  is  now  rich 
Gravy,    To  convert  it  into 

Cullisy  or  lliickened  Gravy, — (No.  189.) 

To  a  quart  of  Gravy,  put  a  table-spoonful  of  TTiichening 
(No.  257.)  or  from  one  to  two  taUe-spoonsfiil  of  Flour,  ae^ 
cording  to  the  thickness  you  wish  the  Gravy  to  be,  into  a 
basin,  with  a  ladleful  of  the  Gravy ;  stir  it  quick ; — add  die 
i^est  by  degrees,  till  it  is  all  well  mixed ;  then  pour  it  back> 
into  a  stewpan,  and  leave  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer 
for  half  honour  longer,  that  the  Thickening  may  thoroughly 
incorporate  with  the  Gravy,  the  stewpan  being  only  half  go- 


m^mmia^ 


*  Tmlfles,  Morells  and  Masbrooms,  Catsups  and  Wines,  tfee.  mn 
added  by  tfaose  who  are  for  the  extreme  of  Haut  Go^t, 

t  The  general  rule  is  to  put  in  about  a  Pint  of  Water  te  t  poind  of 
BMat)  if  it  only  simmers  teiy  gently. 


230  BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

vered,  stirring  it  every  now  and  then ; — a  sort  of  scum  will 
gather  on  the  top,  which  it  is  best  not  to  take  off  till  you  are 
ready  to  strain  it  through  a  Tammis.* 

Take  care  it  is  neither  too  pale  nor  too  dark  a  colour  :  if 
it  is  not  Thick  enough^  let  it  stew  longer,  till  it  is  reduced  to 
the  desired  thickness ;  or  add  a  bit  of  glaze  or  Portable  Soup 
to  it,  see  (No.  252  :)  if  it  is  too  TTiick,  you  can  easily  thin  it 
with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  warm  broth,  or  water.  When  your 
sauce  is  done,  stir  it  in  the  basin  you  put  it  into  once  or  twice, 
while  it  is  cooling. 

FeaZ  BrotA.— (No,  191.) 

A  Knuckle  of  Veal  is  best ;  manage  it  as  directed  in  the 
receipt  for  Beef  Broth  (No.  185,*)  only  take  care  not  to  let 
it  catch  any  colour,  as  this  and  the  following  and  richer 
preparation  of  Veal,  is  chiefly  used  for  White  Soups, 
Sauces,  &c. 

To  make  White  Sauce,  see  (No.  364.)* 

Veal  GVary.— (No.  192.) 

About  three  pounds  of  the  nut  of  the  Leg  of  Veal,  cut  into 
half  pound  slices,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Ham  in  small 
dice  ;  proceed  as  directed  for  the  Beef  Gravy  (No.  186,)  but 
watch  the  time  of  putting  in  the  water  ;  if  this  is  poured  in 
too  soon,  the  gravy  will  not  have  its  true  flavour, — ^if  it  be  let 
alone  till  the  meat  sticks  too  much  to  the  pan,  it  will  catch 
too  brown  a  Colour. 

Knuckle  of  YBAhf  or  Shin  or  Leg  of  Beep,  Soup» 

(No.  193.) 

A  Knuckle  of  Veal,  of  six  pounds  weight,  will  make  a  large 
tureen  of  excellent  Soup,  and  is  thus  easily  prepared :— Cut 
half  a  pound  of  Bacon  into  slices  about  Imlf  an  inch  thick, 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup-kettle,  or  deep  stewpan,  and 
on  this  place  the  knuckle  of  veal,  having  first  chopped  the 


|<i.  * 


*  A  Tammis  is  a  worsted  cloth,  sold  at  the  oil  shops,  made  on  pur- 
pose for  straining  sauces:  the  best  way  of  using  it  is  for  two  people  to 
twist  it  contrary  ways :  this  is  a  better  way  of  straining  ^uce  than 
through  a  Sieve,  and  refines  it  much  more  completely. 


9ROTHSy  GRAVIBS,  AND  SOUPS.  231 

bone  in  two  or  three  places,— furnish  it  with  two  carrots, 
two  turnips,  a  head  of  celery,  two  large  onions,  with  two  or 
three  cloves  stuck  in  one  of  them,  a  dozen  corns  of  Black, 
and  the  same  of  Jamaica  pepper,  and  a  good  bundle  of  lemon 
thyme,  winter  savory,  and  parsley. — ^Just  cover  the  meat  with 
cold  water,  and  set  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  it  boils ;  having 
skimmed  it  well,  remove  your  soup-kettle  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  let  it  stew  very  gently  till  it  is  quite  tender,  t.  e.  about 
f<mt  hours  ;  then  tsuce  out  the  bacon  and  veal,  strain  the  soup, 
and  set  it  by  in  a  cool  place  till  you  want  it,  when  you  must 
take  off  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  your  liquor,  and  decant  it 
(keeping  back  the  settlings  at  the  bottom)  into  a  clean  pan. 

If  you-  like  a  Thickened  Soup,  put  three  table-spoonsful 
of  the  ^  you  have  taken  off  the  soup,  into  a  small  stewpan, 
and  mix  it  with  four  table-spoonsful  of  flour,  pour  a  ladleful 
of  soup  to  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  rest  by  degrees,  and  boil  it 
up  till  it  is  smooth. 

Cut  the  Meat  and  Gristle  of  the  Knuckle  and  the  Baoon 
mto  mouthsful,  and  put  them  into  the  Soup,  and  let  them  get 
warm. 

06*. — ^You  may  make  this  more  savoury  by  adding  Cat- 
sup (No.  439,)  &c.  Shin  op  Beef  may  be  dressed  in  the 
same  way ;  see  Knuckle  of  Veal  stewed  with  Rice  (No. 
523.) 

Mutton  firoi/i.— (No.  194.) 

Take  jtwo  pounds  of  Scrj^  of  Mutton ;  to  take  the  blood  out, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water ;  when, the 
water  becomes  milk->varm,  pour  it  off,  then  put  it  in  four  or 
five  pints  of  water,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of 
best  grits,  and  an  Onion  ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  when  you 
have  taken  all  the  scum  off,  put  in  two  or  three  turnips,  let 
it  simmer  very  slowly  for  two  hours,  and  strain  it  through  si 
<^ean  sieve. 

This  usual  method  of  making  Mutton  Broth  with  the  Scrarj^ 
IS  by  no  means  the  most  Economical  method  of  obtaining  it ; 
for  which  see  (No.  490  and  564.)    • 

06*.— You  may  thicken  Broth,  by  boiling  with  it  a  little 
P^tmeaU— Rice,-^Scotch,  or  Pearl  Barley ;  .wheayou  make 
It  for  a  Sick*  person,  read  the  06*.  on  Broths,  &:c.  mthe  last 


232  BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  A3? D  SOUPS. 

]^ge  of  the  7th  Chapter  of  the  Rudiments  of  CookeiL*y ;  and 
<No.  564.) 

Mock  Mutton,  Broth  f  without  Meaty  in  Five  Minutes, 

(No.  195.) 

Boil  a  few  leaves  of  Parsley  with  two  tea-spoonsful  of  Mush* 
room*  Catsup,  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  very  thin  Grod 
(No.  572,)     Season  with  a  little  salt 

Obs. — lliis  is  improved  hy  a  few  drops  of  Shallot  Wine 
^No.  402,)  and  the  same  of  Essence  of  Sweet  Herbs  (No.419.) 
See  also  Portable  Soup  (No.  252.) 

The  Queen^s  morning  "  Bouillon  de  SantiJ*^ — (No.  196.) 

Sir  Kenelm  Digby,  in  his  "  Closet  of  Cookery,*^  page  149, 
London,  1669,  informs  us,  was  made  with  **  a  brawny  Hen, 
or  young  Cock,  a  handful  of  parsley,  one  sprig  of  thyme, 
three  of  spearmint,  a  little  balm,  half  a  great  onion,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  clove,  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them ;  and  this  boiled  to  less  than  a  Pint,  for  one  good  por- 
rengerful." 

OjV'heel  JcZ/y.— (No.  198.) 

Slit  them  in  two,  and  take  away  the  fat  between  the  claws. 
The  proportion  of  water  to  each  Heel  is  about  a  quart ; — ^Ict 
it  simmer  gently  for  eight  hours,  (keeping  it  clean  skimmed;) 
it  will  make  a  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  Jelly,  which  is  fre- 
qaently  used  to  make  Calves*  feet  Jelly  (No.  481,)  or  to  add 
to  Mock  Turtle,  and  other  Soups.  See  (No.  240.*)  Thii 
Jelly  evaporated  as  directed  in  (No.  252,)  will  give  about 
three  ounces  and  a  half  of  strong  Glaze, — an  unboiled  Heel 
costs  one  shilGng  and  three-pence ;  so  this  glaze,  which  is 
veiy  inferior  in  flavour  to  (No.  252,)  is  quite  as  expensive  )m 
that  is. 

N.  B.  To  dress  the  Heels,  see  (No.  18.) 

.ki,»       ■     - .    I   ,1     ■  .  I        ..II 

*  By  this  method,  it  is  said,  an  iogenions  Coolc  lonfr  deceirnd  a  lai)St 
family,  who  were  all  fond  of  weak  mutton  broth. — Mushroom  Groejf, 
or  Cattvp  (No.  439,)  approaches  the  nature  and  flavour  of  Meat  Grary> 
more  tikftn  any  Vegetable  Juice,  and  is  the  best  substitute  for  it  in 
Meagre  Soups  and  esptempore.Sauees,  thai  Culinary  Chemistiy  has  yet 
produofxi.  • 


BROTHS^  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.         233 

Qfa>  -Get  a  Heel  that  has  only  been  scalded,  not  one  of 
those  usually  sold  at  the  Tripe  shops,  which  have  been  boiled 
till  almost  all  the  Grelatine  is  extracted. 

Clear  Grainy  Soups. — (No,  200.) 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  Ham*  into  slices,  and  lay  them  at  the 
bottom  of  a  large  stewpan,  or  stock  pot,  with  two  or  three 
pounds  of  lean  Beef,  and  as  much  Veal ; — ^break  the  bones 
and  lay  them  on  the  meat,  take  off  the  outer  skin  of  two 
large  onions,  and  two  Turnips;  wash,  clean,  and  cut  into 
pieces  a  couple  of  large  Carrots,  and  two  heads  of  Celery ; 
and  put  in  three  Cloves  and  a  large  blade  of  Mace  :^-cover 
the  stewpan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  smart  fire ; — when  the 
me^  begins  to  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  turn  it, 
and  when  there  is  a  nice  brown  glaze  at  the  bottom  of  the 
stewpan,  co^er  the  naeat  with  hot  water :  watch  it,  and  when 
it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  take  off 
the  scum,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  more  cold  water,  and  skim 
it  again,  and  continue  to  do  so  till  no  more  scum  rises. — Now 
set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  to  boil  gently  for  about  four 
hours,-— strain  it  through  a  clean  tammis,  or  napkin,  (do  not 
squeeze  it,  or  the  iSoup  will  be  thick,)  into  a  clean  St6ne  pan, 
let  it  remain  till  it  is  cold,  and  then  remove  all  the  Fat  ;— 
[  when  you  decant  it,  be  careful  not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at 
the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

The  Broth  should  be  of  a  fine  Amber  colour y  and  as  clear 
as  Rock  Water; — if  it  is  not  quite  so  bright  as  you  wish 
it,  put  it  into  a  stewpan, — ^break  two  whites  and  shells  of 
Eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  them  well  together,  put  them  into  the 
Soup,  set  it  on  a  quick  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a  whisk. till  it 
boilSy — then  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  to  settle  for  ten 
minutes,  run  it  through  a  fine  napkin  into  a  basin,  and  it  is 
ready. 

However,  if  your  Broth  is  carefully  skimmedy  &c.  accord- 
ing to  the  directions  above  given,  it  will  be  clear  enough 
without  clarifyingy  which  process  impairs  the  flavour  of  it, — 
in  a  higher  proportion  than  it  improves  its  appearance. 

06*.— This  is  the  Basis  of  almost  all  GraVy  Soups,  which 
are  called  by  the  name  of  the  vegetables  that  are  put  into 
them : 

Carrots,— Turnips, — Onions, — Celery,— and  a  few 


234  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

leaves  of  Chervil,  make  what  is  called  Spring  Soup,  or 
Soup  Sant6  ;  to  this  a  pint  of  Green  Pease,  or  Aspara- 
gus Pease,  or  French  Beans  cut  into  pieces,  or  a  cabbage 
lettuce,  are  an  improvement. 

With  Rice, — or  Scotch  Barley, — ^with  Magcaroni, 
—or  Vermicelli, — or  Celery,— Kjut  into  lengths ;  it  will 
be  the  Soup  usually  called  by  those  names. 

Or  Turnips  scooped  round,  or  yoimg  Onions,  will  give  you 
a  clear  Turnip,  or  Onion  Soup,  and  all  these  vi^tables 
mixed  together.  Soup  Gressi. 

The  Gravy  for  all  these  soups  may  be  produced  ex- 
tempore with  (No.  252.) 

The  Roots  and  Vegetables  you  use,  must  be  boiled  first, 
or  they  will  impregnate  the  Soup  with  too  strong  a  flavour. 

The  Seasoning  for  all  these  Soups  is  the  same,  viz.  Salt, 
and  a  very  little  Cayenne  pepper. 

N.  B.  To  make  excellent  Vegetable  Gravy  Soup  for  4ji 
a  quart,  see  (No.  224.) 

Scotch  Barley  Broth, — A  Good  and  SubstaniicU 
Dinner  for  Five-pence  per  Head, — (No.  204.) 

Wash  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Scotch  Barley  in  a  little 
cold  water,  put  it  in  a  soup  pot  with  a  Shin  or  Leg  of  Beef, 
of  about  ten  potmds  weight,  sawed  into  four  pieces,  (tell  the 
Butcher  to  do  this  for  you,)  cover  it  well  with  cold  water, 
set  it  on  the  fire ;  when  it  boils  skim  it  very  clean,  and  put 
in  two  Onions  of  about  three  ounces  weight  each,  set  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently  about  two  boors; 
then  skim  all  the  fat  clean  off,  and  put  in  two  heads  of  Celery, 
and  a  large  Turnip  cut  into  small  squares ;  season  it  with 
salt,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer,  and  it  is  ready: 
take  out  the  meat  (carefully  with  a  slice,  and  cover  it  up  and 
set  it  by  the  fire  to  keep  warm) :  and  scum  the  Broth  wdl 
before  you  put  it  in  the  Tureen. 

s,   d. 

ShiDofBeef  of  101b 2    0 

j  pound  of  Barley 0     4j- 

%  Onions  of  about  3  oz.  ^reigbt  eacb. . .  0    0^ 

Celery 0     ] 

Xarge  Turnip • 0    ) 

2     T 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  235 

Thus  you  getf(mr  quarts  of  Good  Soup^  at  Sd.  per  Quart, 
besides  another  quart  to  inake  sauce  for  the  Meat,  in  the 
following  manner : — 

Put  a  quart  of  the  Soup  into  a  :basin, — ^put  about  an  ounce 
of  Flour  into  a  stewpan,  and  pour  the  Broth  to  it  by  degrees, 
stirring  it  well  together,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it 
boils, — ^then  (some  put  in  a  glass  of  Port  Wine  or  Mushroom 
Catsup  (No.  439),  let  it  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready. 

Put  the  Meat  in  a  Ragout  dish,  and  strain  the  Sauce 
through  a  sieve,  over  the  Meat,  you  may  put  to  it  some 
Capers,  or  minced  Gherkins  or  Walnuts,  &c. 

If  the  Beef  has  been  stewed  with  proper  care  in  a  Vfiry 
jen^fe  manner^  and  be  taken  up  at  "  the  critical  moment 
when  it  is  just  tender,"  you  will  obtain — ^an  Excellent  and 
Savoury  Meal  for  Eight  People  for  Five-Pence,  i.  e.  for 
only  the  cost  of  the  glass  of  Port  wine. 

If  you  use  Veal,  cover  the  Meat  with  (No.  364,  No.  2.) 

Obs, — ^Tbis  is  a  most  Frugal, — Agreeable, — and  Nutritive 
Meal, — it  will  neither  lighten  the  Purse,  nor  lie  heavy  on  the 
Stomach,  and  will  furnish  a  plentiful  and  pleasant  Soup  and 
Meat  for  eight  persons.  So  You  may  give  a  good  Dinner  for 
^per  Head /  /  /    See  also  (No.  229),  and  (No.  239.) 

W.  B.  If  you  will  draw  your  Purse  stritigs  a  little  wider» 
and  allow  Irf.  per  Mouth  more, — prepare  a  pint  of  young 
Onions  as  directed  in  (No.  296),  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
them,  or  some  Carrots,  or  Turnips'  cut  into  squares, — and 
/or  6d,  per  Head  you  will  have  as  good  a  Ragout  as  "  fe 
Cuisinier  Imperial  de  France"*^  can  give  you  for  as  many 
sbillings.    Read  Obs.  to  (No.  493.) 

You  may  vary  the  Flavour,  by  adding  a  little  Curry  Powder 
(No.  455),  Ragout  (No.  457,  8fc.)  or  any  of  the  store  Sauces 
and  flavouring  Essences,  between  (Nos.  396  and  463) ;  you 
«iay  garnish  the  dish  with  split  pickled  Mangoes,  Walnuts, 
Gherkins,  Onions,  &c.     See  Wow  Wow  Sauce  (No.  328.) 

If  it  is  made  the  evening  before  the  Soup  is  wanted,  and 
stiiFered  to  stand  till  it  is  cold,  much  Fat  *  may  be  removed 

^^  •  See  *'  L'Jrt  Ae  Cummer  par  A.  Beauvillier,  Paris,  1814,  page  88, 
I  have  learned  by  experience,  that  of  all  (he  fats  that  are  used  for  frying, 
we  i*6<  Top  which  is  taken  from  the  surface  of  the  Broth  and  Stock- 
^•ot  is  by  far  the  best.*' 


^  236  .  BROTHS^   GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

.from  the  surface  of  the  Soup,  which  is,  when  clarified 
(No,  83),  useful  for  all  the  purposes  that  Drippings  are  ap- 
plied to. 

Scotch  Soups. — (No.  205.) 

The  three  following  Receipts  are  the  contribution  of  a 
friend  at  Edinburgh. 

Winter  Hatch  Potch, 

Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  Mutton,  cut  it  into 
neat  chops,  cut  four  carrots  and  as  many  turnips  into  slices, 
put  on  four  quarts  of  water,  with  half  the  carrots  and  turnips, 
and  a  whole  one  of  each,  with  a  pound  of  dried  green  peas, 
which  must  be  put  to  soak  the  night  before, — let  it  boil  two 
hours,  then  take  out  the  whole  carrot  and  turnip,  bruise  and 
return  them,  put  in  the  meat,  and  the  rest  of  the  carrot  and 
turnip,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  slowly  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  a  short  time  before  serving  add  an  onion  cut 
'  small,  and  a  head  of  celery. 

Cocky-Leeky  Soup, 

Take  a  scrag  of  Mutton,  or  shank  of  Veal,  three  quails 
of  water  (or  liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled),  and  a 
godd  sized  fowl,  with  two  or  three  leeks  cut  in  pieces  about 
an  inch  long,  pepper  and  salt,  boil  slowly  about  an  hour, 
then  put  in  as  many  more  leeks,  and  give  it  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  longer : — ^this  is  very  good,  made  of  good  beef  stock, 
and  leeks  put  in  at  twice. 

Lamb  Stove  or  Lamb  Stew, 

Take  a  Iambus  head  and  lights,  open  the  jaws  of  the  head, 
and  wash  them  thoroughly,  put  them  in  a  pot  with  some  beef 
stock,  made  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  two  pounds  of 
shin  of  beef,  strained,  boil  very  slowly  for  an  hour,  wash  and 
string  two  or  three  good  handsful  of  spinach  (or  Spina^), 
put  it  in  twenty  minutes  before  serving,  add  a  little  parsley, 
-and  one  or  two  onions  a  short  time  before  it  comes  off  the 
fire,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  all  together  in  a 
tureen. 

-ScoteA  J5ro5c.— (No.  205.*) 

*'  This  favourite  Scotch  dish  is  generally  made  with  the 
liquor  meat  has  been  boiled  in. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  '       237 

**  Put  half  a  pint  of  Oatmeal  into  a  porringer  witli  a  little 
salt,  if  there  be  not  enough  in  the  broth, — of  which,  add  as 
much  as  will  mix  it  to  the  consistence  of  hasty-pudding,  or 
a  little  thicker, — ^lastly,  take  a  little  of  the  fat  that  swims  on 
the  broth,  and  put  it  on  the  Crowdie,  and  eat  it  in  the  same 
way  as  hasty-pudding." 

06*.— This  Scotsman's  dish,  is  easily  prepared,  at  very 
little  expence,  and  is  pleasant  tasted  and  nutritious.  To 
dress  a  Haggies,  see  (No.  488*),  and  Minced  Collops 
following  it. 

N.B.  For  various  methods  of  making  and  flavouring 
Oatmeal  Gruel,  see  (No.  572.) 

Carrot  iSbttp.— (No.  212.) 

Scrape  and  wash  half  a  dozen  large  Carrots,  peel  off  the 
red  outside  (which  is  the  only  part  used  for  this  soup)  ;  put 
it  into  a  gallon  stewpan,  with  one  head  of  Celery,  and  an 
Onion,  cut  into  thin  pieces ;  take  two  quarts  of  Beef,  VeaJ, 
or  Mutton  Broth,  or  if  you  bave  any  cold  Roast  Beef  Bones 
(or  liquor,  in  which  Mutton  or  Beef  bas  been  boiled),  you 
may  naake  very  good  broth  for  this  soup  : — when  you  have 
put  the  brotb  to  the  roots,  cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  set 
it  on  a  slow  stove  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  when  tfie  Car- 
rots will  be  soft  enough  (some  Cooks  put  in  a  Tea-cupful  of 
Bread  crumbs),  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  rub  it  through 
atammis,  or  hair  sieve,  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  as 
much  broth  as  will  make  it  a  proper  thickness,  i.  e.  almost 
as  thick  as  pease  soup :  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  make  it 
hot,  season  it  with  a  little  salt,  and  send  it  up  with  some 
toasted  bread,  cut  into  pieces,  half  an  inch  square.  Some 
put  it  into  the  soup  ;  but  the  best  way  is  to  send  it  up  on  a 
plate,' as  a  side  dish. 

06*. — This  is  neither  expensive  nor  troublesome  to  pre- 
pare ; — in  the  Kitchens  of  some  opulent  Epicures,  to  make 
this  Soup  make  a  little  stronger  impression  on  the  gustatory 
Organs  of  "  Grands  Gourmandsy^  the  Celery  and  Onions 
are  sliced,  and  fried  in  butter  of  a  light  brown,  the  Soup  is 
poured  into  the  Stewpan  to  them,  and  all  is  boiled  up  toge- 
ther:— ^but  this  must  be  done  very  carefully  with  Butter  or 
▼ery  nicely  clarified  fat ;  and  \h^^^  Grand  Cuisinier''^  adds  ' 
ipices,  &c.  <«  ad  libitum.^' 


^ 


238  BROTHS,   GRAVISB9  AND  SOUPS. 


Turnip  and  Parsnip  ^Sbup^— (No.  213.) 

Are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Carrot  Soup  (No. 
212K 

Celery  Soup.— (No.  214.) 

Split  half  a  dozen  heads  of  Celery  into  slips  about  two 
inches  long,  wash  them  well,  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  tf) 
drain,  and  put  them  into  three  quarts  of  (No.  200)  in  a  gal- 
lon soup  pot ;  set  it  by  the  side-  of  the  fire,  to  stew  very 
gently  till  the  celery  is  tender ;  (this  will  take  about  an  hour). 
If  any  scum  rises,  take  it  off  ^  season  with  a  little  salt: 

Obs, — When  Celery  cannot  be  procured,  Half  a  Drachm 
of  the  Seedy  pounded  fine,  which  may  be  considered  as  the 
Essence  of  Celery,  (costs  only  one-third  of  a  farthing,  aad 
cAn  be  had  at  any  season,)  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  be- 
fore the  soup  is  done,  and  a  little  sugar  will  give  as  much 
flavour  to  half  a  gallon  of  Soup,  as  two  heads  of  Celery, 
weighing  seven  ounces  and  costing  2c?, ;  or  add  a  little  &- 
senc9  of  Celery  (No.  409) . 

Green  Pease  Soup, — (No.  216.) 

A  peck  of  Pease  will  make  you  a  good  tureen  of  Soup, — in 
shelling  them  put  the  old  ones  in  one  Basin,  and  the  young 
ones  in  another,  and  keep  out  a  pint  of  them,  and  boil  them 
separately  to  put  into  your  Soup  when  it  is  finished ;— put  a 
large  saucepan  on  the  fire  half  full  of  water,  when  it  boik, 
put  the  Pease  in,  with  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  thera  boil  till 
they  are  done  enough,  i,  e.  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes, 
according  to  their  age  and  size,  then  drain  them  in  a  ciiilen- 
der,  apd^put  them  into  a  clean  gallon  stewpan,  and  three 
quaro  of  plain  Veal  or  Mutton  Broth  (drawn  from  meat 
without  any  Spices  or-  Herbs,  &C;  which  would  overpower 
the  flavour  of  the  Soup),  cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  set  it 
over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  add  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  bread  crumbs,  and  then  rub  it  throu^  a  tammis  into 
another  stewpan,. stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  if  it  is  too 
thick,  add  a  little  more  broth ;  have  ready  boiled  aa  for  eat- 
ing,^  a  pint  of  young  pease j  and  put  them  into  the  soap; 
season  with  a  little  salt  and  sugar; 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  239 

N.  6.  Some  Cooks,  while  this  Soup  is  going  on,  slice  a 
couple  of  Cucumbers  (as  you  would  for  eating) ;  take  out  the 
sceds^  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain,  and  then  flour  tbem,  and 
fry  them  a  light  brown  in  a  little  butter ;  put  them  into  the 
soup  the  last  thing  before  it  goes  to  table. 

O65.— If  the  Soup  is  not  Gh-een  enough,  pound  a  handful 
of  Pea-hulls  or  Spinage,  and  squeeze  the  juice  through  a 
c)oth  into  the  soup ;  some  leaves  of  mint  may  be  added  if  ap- 
proved. 

Plain  Green  Pease  Soup  without  Meat. — (No.  217.) 

Take  a  quart  of  Green  Pease  (keep  out  half  a  pint  of  the 
youngest,  boil  them  separately,  and  put  them  in  the  Soap 
when  it  is  finished),  put  them  on  in  boiling  water,  boil  them 
tender,  and  then  pour  off  the  water  and  set  it  by  to  make  the  . 
soup  with ;  put  the  peas  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  them  to 
a  mash.  Then  put  them  into  two  quarts  of  the  water  you 
boiled  the  peas  in,  stir  all  well  together,  let  it  boil  up  for 
about  five  minute^,  and  then  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  or 
tammis.  If  the  peas  are  good,  it  will  be  as  thick  and  fine  a 
vegetable  soup  as  need  be  sent  to  table. 

Pease  Soup,— (No.  218.) 

The  common  way  of  making  Pease  Soup*  is, — to  a  Quart 
of  Split  Pease  put  three  quarts  of  cold  soft  water,  not  more, 
(or  it  will  be  what  "jack  ros-bif"  calls  "  Soup  Maigre^*^)  - 
notwithstanding  Mother  Glasse  orders  a  gallon  (and  her 
L^dyship^s  ■  directions  have  been  copied  by  almost  every 
Cookery  book-maker,  who  has.  strung  receipts  together  since), 
with  half  a  pouAd  of  Bacon*  (not  very  fat),  or  Roast  Beef 
bones,. or  four  Anchovies:  or,  instead  of  the  water,  three, 
quarts  of  the  Liquor, in  which  Beef,  Mutton,  Pork,  or  Poultry 
has  been  boiled,  tasting  it  first,  to  make  sure  it  is  not  too 
saltf. 

*  To  roak^  PsASB  Pottao b,  double  the  quantity.  Those  who  often 
make  Peose  Soup,  should  have  a  Mill,  and  grind  the  Pease,  just  before 
tliej  drei!8.t)ieai,'-aless  quantity  will  suffiue>  and  the  Soup  will  be  much 
<ooner  inacie. 

f  If  the  Liquor  is  very  9altf  the  Pease  will  .never  boil  tender.— 


240  BROTHS,  GRAVIES^  AND  SOUPS. 

Wash  two  heads  of  Celery,*  cut  it,  and  put  it  in,  wit 
two  Onions  peeled,  and  a  sprig  of  Savory,  or  sweet " 
joram,  or  Lemon-Thyme ;  set  it  on  the  trivet,  and  let  li 
simmer  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  it  every  qx 
df  an  hour  (to  keep  the  pease  from  sticking  to  and  burning 
the  bottom  of  the  Soup-pot)  till  the  Pease  are  tender,  whic) 
will  be  in  about  three  hours ;— some  Cooks  now  slice  a  he 
of  Celery,  and  half  an  ounce  of  Onions,  and  fry  them  in 
little  butter,  and  put  them  into  the  Soup,  till  they  are  lightl 
browned,  then  work  the  whole  through  a  coarse  hair  sievej 
and  then  through  a  fine  sieve,  or  (what  is  better)   through : 
tammis,  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon ; — ^put  it  into 
clean  stewpan,  with  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground  Black  Pej 
per,  -f  let  it  boil  again  for  ten  minutes,  and  if  any  fat  zxisesA 
skim  it  off. 

Send  up  on  a  plate,  Toasted  Bread  cut  into  little  pieces, 
quarter  of  an  inch  square,  or  cut  a  slice  of  bread  (that ' 
been  baked  two  days)  into  dice,  not  more  than  half  an  im 
square ;  put  half  a  pound  of  perfectly  clean  drippings  or 
into  an  iron  frying-pan ;  when  it  is  hot.  Fry  the  Breai 
take  care  and  turn  it  about  with  a  slice,  or  by  shaking  off 
pan  as  it  is  frying,  that  it  may  be  on  each  side  of  a  delicatt] 
light  brown,  see  (No.  319);  take  it  up  with  a  fish-slice,  aojl 
lay  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper  to  drain  the  fat :  be  carefiU  thm 
Ms  is  done  nicely :  send  these  up  in  one  side  dish,  and  dried 
and  powdered  Mint  or  Savory,  or  Sweet  Marjoram,  &c.  in 
another. 

Those  who  are  for  a  double  Relish,  and  are  true  lovers  of 
<<  Haul  G(y(Uf*^  may  have  some  Bacon  cut  into  small  squarei 
like  the  bread,  and  fried  till  it  is  crisp,  or  some  little  lumps 
of  boiled  pickled  Pork, — or  put  Cucumber  fried  into  thi« 
soup,  as  you  have  directions  in  (No.  21 6.) 

Therefore,  when  you  make  Pease  Soap  with  the  liquor  in  which  mited 
F«rk  or  Beef  has  been  boiled,  tie  up  the  Pease  in  a  cloth,  and  boillhco 
first  for  an  hour  in  soft  water. 

*  Ha^f  a  drachm  <nf  Celery  Seed,  pounded  fine,  and  put  into  flic 
Soup  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  finished,  will  flavour  three  qoartf . 

t  Some  put  in  dried  Mint  rubbed  to  fine  powder  ;  but  as  evpiy  body 
does  not  like  Mint,  it  is  best  to  send  it  up  on  a  plate,  see  Pba  Powdib 
(No.  458),  Bfsence  of  Celery  (No.  409),  and  (Nos.  457  and  459.) 


^ 


BROTHS,  dRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  241 

06«:— 7%e  most  Economical  method  of  making  Pease 
Soup,  is  to  save  the  hones  of  a  joint  of  Roast  Bieef,  and 
put  theiii  into  the  liquor  in  which  Mutton,  or  Beef,  or  Pork, 
or  Poultry,  has  heen  boiled,  and  proceed  as  in  the  above 
receipt.     A  hock,  or  shank  bone  of  Ham,  a  ham  bone,  the 
root  of  a  Tongue,  or  a  red  or  pickled  Herring,  are  £aivourite 
additions  virith  some  Cooks;  others  send  up  Rice,  or  Vermi- 
celli, with  Pease  Soup.  ♦ 
N;  B.  To  make  Pease  Soup  ExfEMPORE,  see  (No.  655). 
If  you  wish  TO  make  Soup  the  same  day  you  Boil 
Meat  or  Poultry,  prepare  the  Pease  the  same  as  for 
Petue  Pudding  (No.  555),  to  which  you  may  add  an  Onion 
and  a  head  of  Celery,  when  you  rub  the  pease  through  the 
sieve,— instead  of  putting  E|^  and  Butter,  add  some  of  the 
liquor  from  the  pot  to  make  it  a  proper  thickness, — put  it  on 
to  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  it  is  ready. 

Obs, — Tkis  latter  is  by  far  the  easiest ^  and  the  best  way  of 
making  Pease  Soup* 

Pease  Soup  may  be  made  savoiuy  zM  agreeable  to  the 
Ddate,  without  any  Meat,  by  incorporating  two  ounces  of 
fresh  and  nicely  clarified  Befef,  Mutton,  or  Pork  drippings, 
see  (No.  83),  with  two  ounces  of  Oatmeal,  and  mixmg  this 
well  into  the  gallon  of  Soup,  made  as  above  directed :  see 
also  (No.  229.) 

Pea^  Soup  and  Pickled  Porh—i^o.  220.) 

A  couple  of  pounds  of  the  belly  part  of  Pickled  Pork  will 
nake  very  good  broth  for  Pease  Soup»  if  the  pork  be  not  too 


•  My  witty  predecessor,  Dr.  Homtbsi  (see€ulina,  pag6  97,)  says 
"If  a  proper  quantity  of  Curiy-powder  (No.  453)  be  added  to  Peasa 
Soup,  a  good  soup  might  be  made,  uod^r  the  titlp  of  Curry  Peaite  Sotm, 
Heliogabalus  oflered  rewards  £dr  the  discovery  of  a  new  dish,  and  taa 
Kriti£  Parliament  have  giren  notoriety  to  iaventions  of  much  less  im- 
portance than  *  Curry  Pease  Soup.'  ^ 

N.  B.  Celery,  or  Carrots,--or  Turnips,— shredded  or  cut  in  squares, 
(or  Scotch  Barley,  in  the  latter  case  tbe  ;iO|ip  must  be  rather  thinner), 
or  cut  into  bits  about  an  inch  long,  and  boiled  separately,  and  thrown 
into  the  tureen  when  the  soup  is  going  to  table,  will  give  another  agree* 
Able  variety,  and  may  be  callied  Cjb^brt  aVd  P«A9B  $ocp.  Read 
Obs.  to  (No,  2  H). 

M 


lalt,^— 'iC  it  has  been  is  salt  more  than  two  days^  it  mufit^be 
laid  in  water  the  night  before  it  is  used. 

Put  on  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  (No.  218),  in  three 
quarts  of  water ;  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  put  in  the 
pork,  and  boil  very  gently  till  it  is  enough  to  eat,  this  wJl 
take  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  two  hours  longer,  accord- 
ing to  its  thickness : — when  done,  wash  the  pork  clean  in 
hot  water,  send  it  up  in  a  dish,  or  cut  itintomouthfuls,  and 
put  H  into  the  Soup  in  the  tureen,  with  the  accompaniments 
ordered  in  (No.  218.) 

.  Obs. — ^The  Meat  being  boiled  no  longer  than  to  be  dione 
enough  to  be  eaten,  you  get  Excellent  Soup,  without  any  Or 
pense  of  Meat  destroyed. 

.  **  In  Canada  the  inhabitants  live  three-fourths,  of  the  year 
on  Pease  Soup,  prepared  with  Salt  Pork,  which  is  boiled  till 
the  fat  is  entirely  dissolved  amongst  the  soup,  giving  it  a 
rich  flavour." — The  Hon*  J.  Cochrane's  Seaman'^s  Gutc2e, 
8vo.  1797,  p.  31. 

Plain  Pease  Soup. — (No.  221.) 

To  a  quart  of  split  Pease,  and  two  heads  of  Celery,  (and 
most  Cooks  would  put  a  large  Onion,)  put  three  quarts  of 
Broth  or  soft  water ;  let  them  simmer  gently  on  a  trivet  over 
a  slow  fire  for  three  hours,  stirring  up  every  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  prevent  the  pease  burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  soup- 
kettle, — if  the  water  boils  away  and  the  Soup  gets  too  thio^, 
add  sdme  boiling  water  to  it) ;— when  they  are  well  softened, 
work  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  then  through  a  fine 
sieve  or  a  tammis,  wash  out  your  siewpan,  and  then  retum 
the  Soup  into  it,  and  give  it  a  boil  up;  take  off  any  scum 
that  comes  up,  and  it  is  ready.  Prepare  fried  Breads  and 
dried  Mint,  as  directed  in  (No.  218),  and  send  them  up  with 
it  on  two  side  dishes. 

Obs, — This  is  an  excellent  Family  Soup,  produced  with 
very  little  trouble  or  expense ; — u  e, 

QuartofPease 0  & 

Two  Heads  ©f  Celery 0  2 

Pepper  and  Salt 0  1 

Dried  Mint. 0  1 

1    0 


BROTHS,  GRATIBS,  AlTO  SOUPS*  243 

ft 

So,  the  Two  Quarts  cost  One  Shilling  ;-^balf  a  drachm 
of  bruised  Celery  Seed^  which  costs  only  one-third  of  a  hr^ 
diingy  and  a  little  Sugar,  added  just  before  finishing  the 
Soupy— will  give  it  as  much  flavour  as  Two  Heads  ol  the 
fresh  Vegetable. 

Most  of  the  Receipts  for  Pease  Soup,  are  crowded  with 
ingredients  which  entirely  overpower  the  flavour  of  the  Pease. 
See  (No.  555). 

Asparagus  Soup, — (No.  222.) 

This  is  made  with  the  points  of  Asparagus,  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  Green  Pease  Soup  (No.  216  or  17)  is  with 
pease ;  let  half  the  Asparagus  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
and  the  other  cut  io  pieces  about  an  inch  long,  and  boiled 
till  done  enough,  and  sent  up  in  the  soup;  to  make  two 
quarts,  there  must  be  a  pint  of  heads  to  thicken  it,  and  half 
a  pint  cut  in, — ^take  care  to  preserve  these  green  and  a  little 
crisp.  This  soup  is  sometimes  made  by  adding  the  aspara^ 
gos  heads  to  common  Pease  soup. 

Obs. — Some  Cooks  fry  half  an  ounce  of  onion  in  a  little 
butter,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  with  the  other 
ingredients, — ^the  haul  goiU  of  the  Onion  will  entirely  over- 
come the  clelicate  flavour  of  the  Asparagus,  and  we  protest 
against  all  such  combinations. 

Maigre,  or  Vegetable  Gravy  Soup* — (No.  224.) 

Put  into  a  gallon  stewpan  three  ounces  of  butter;  set  it 
over  a  slow  fire ;  while  it  is  melting,  slice  four  ounces  of 
Onion;  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  Turnip,  one  Carrot,  and  a 
head  o<  Celery,  put  them  in  the  stewpan,  cover  it  close,  let 
It  fry  till  they  are  lightly  browned ;  this  will  take  about 
twetUy-five  mimUes ; — have  ready,  in  a  saucepan,  a  pint  of 


*  The  French  call  this  "  Soup  Maigre,"^ihe  English  acceptation  of 
J'ichiis  **poor  and  toatery,')  and  does  not  at  all  accord  with  the 
"reiich,  which  is  Soups,  &c.  made  without  meat — thus,  Turtle,  the 
"cbest  dish  that  comes  to  an  English  table  (if  dressed  without  Meat 
6«'y),  I*  a  Maigre  Dish. 

M   2 


244     '  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

Pease,  with  four  quarts  of  water ;  when  the  Roots  in  the 
stewpan  are  quite  brown,  and  the  pease  come  to  a  boiU  pat 
die  pease  and  water  to  them,  put  it  on  the  fire,  when  itboUs 
scum  it  clean,  and  put  in  a  crust  of  bread  about  as  big  as  the 
top  of  a  two-penny  loaf,  twenty-four  berries  of  AUspioe,  tlw 
same  of  Black  Pepper,  and  two  blades  of  Mace,  cover  it 
dose, — ^let  it  simmer  gently  for  one  Jiour  and  a  hcdf,  thsB 
set  it  from  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  it  off  very 
gently  (so  as  not  to  disturb  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the 
stewpan)  into  a  large  basin,  let  it  stand  (about  two  hown) 
till  it  is  quite  clear,— while  this  is  doing,  shred  one  laige 
Turnip,  the  red  part  of  a  large  Carrot,  three  ounoes  of 
Onion  minced,  and  one  lar^e  head  of  Celery  cut  into  small 
bits ;  put  the  Turnips  and  Carrots  on  the  fife  in  cold  water, 
let  them  boil  five  minutes,  then  drain  them  on  a  sieve,— 
then  pour  off  the  Soup  clear  into  a  stewpan,  put  in  the 
Roots,  put  the  Soup  on  the  fire,  let  it  simmer  gently  till  the 
herbs  are  tender,  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  season  it 
with  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne,  and  it  is  ready. 

You  may  add  a  table-spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup  (No. 
439.) 

Oft*.*— You  will  have  Three  Quarts  of  Soup^  as  well  co- 
loured, and  almost  as  well  flavoured,  as  i^  made  with  Gravy 
Meat,— for  Is.  Ud. 

s.  <f. 

Carrots -....O  1 

Turnips 0  1 

Celecy 0  2 

Pease 0  3 

Onions 0  0^ 

Butter 0  3 

^piee,  Salt,  (fee 0  3 

N.  B.  To  make  this  it  requires  nearly  Five  Hours,  To 
Fry  the  herbs  requires  twenty-five  minutes, — ^to  Boil  all  to- 
gether, one  hour  and  a  half, — to  settle^  at  the  least,  two 
hours, — when  clear,  and  put  on  the  fire  again,  half  an  hour 
more.  ^^ 


BBOTHSy  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  245 

Fish  Soups. — (No.  225.) 

Eel  Soup» 

To  make  a  tureeDful,  take  a   couple  of  middling-sized 

Onions,  cut  them  in  half,  and  cross  your  knife  over  them 

two  or  three  dmes ;  put  two  ounces  of  Butter  into  a  stew- 

jan;  when  it V  melted,  put  in  the  Onions,  stir  them  about 

till  they  are  lightly  browned,—- cut  into  pieces  three  pounds 

of  unskinned'Eels,  put  them  into  your  stewpan,  and  shake 

them  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  three  quarts  of 

boiling  water,  and  when  they  come  to  a  boil,  take  the  scum 

off  very  clean,  then  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  green 

leaves  (not  dried)  of  Winter  Savory,  the  same  of  Lemon 

Thyme,  and  twice  the  quantity  of  Parsley,  two  drachms  of 

Allspice,  the  same  of  Black  Pepper, — cover  it  close,  and  let 

it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  straiti  it  off,  and  skim  it 

very  dean.     To  Thicken  it,  put  three  ounces  of  Butter  into 

a  dean  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much  fiour  as 

will  make  it  of  a  stitf  paste,  then  add  the  liquor  by  degrees, 

let  it  fmimer  for  ten  minutes,  and  pass  it  through  a  sieve, 

then  pm  your  Soup  on  in  a  clean  stewpan,-^and  have  ready 

some  little  square  pieces  of  Fish  fried  of  a  nice  light  brown, 

either  Eels,  Soles,  Plaice,  or  Skate  will  do; — ^the  fried  Fish 

should  be  added  about  ten  minutes  before  the  Soup  is  served 

up.    Forcemeat  Balls  (Nos.  375,  378,  &c.)  are  sometimes 

added. 

Obt. — ^Excellent  Fish  Soups  may  be  made  with  a 
Cod's  Skull,— or  Skate,— or  Flounders,  &c.  boiled  in  no 
nM)re  water  than  will  just  cover  them,— and  the  liquor 
thickened  with  Oatmeal,  &c. 

Cheap  Soups.— (No.  229.) 

Among  the  variety  of  schemes  that  have  been  suggested 
for "  Bettering  the  condition  of  the  Poor^"**  a  more  useral  or 
extensive  Charity  cannot  be  dfevised,  than  that  of  instructing 
^m  in  Economical  Cookery: — ^it  is  one  of  the  most  import- 
ant objects  to  which  the  attention  of  any  real  well-wisher  to 
the  public  interest  can  possibly  be  directed. 

The  best  aTid  cheapest  method  of  making  a  nourishing 
Soupy  is  least  known  to  those  who  have  most  need  of  it ;-— it 


246  mOTRSy   GfiAVlBS,  AND  90V9Si 

will  enable  those  who  have  Baiall  inooines  and  large  fisunilies 
to  make  the  most  of  the  little  they  possess,  without  pindung 
their  'children  of  that  wholesome  nourishmeDt  which  is  ne- 
cessary, for  the  purpose  of  rearing  them  up  to  matori^  in 
Health  and  Strength. 

The  labouring  classes  seldom  purchase  what  are  called  the 
coarser  pieces  of  Meat,  because  they  do  not  know  how  to 
dress  them,  but  lay  out  their  money  in  pieces  .for  Roasting, 
&c.,  of  which  the  bones,  &c.  enhance  the  price  of  the  ac- 
tual meat  to  nearly  a  shilling  per  pound,  and  the  diminiUum 
of  weight  by  Roasting  amounts  to  32  per  cent.  This,  fw 
die  sake  of  saving  time,  trouble,  and  fire,  is  generally  sent 
to  an  oven  to  be  Baked,  the  nourishing  parts  are  evaporated 
and  dried  up,  its  weight  is  diminished  nearly  one^third^  and 
all  that  a  poor  man  can  afford  td  purchase  with  his  week's 
earnings,  perhaps  does  not  half  satisfy  the  a^ppetites  of  him- 
self and  family  for  a  couple  of  dajrs. 

If  a  hard-working  man  cannot  get  a  comfortable  meal  at 
home,  he  soon  finds  his  way  to  the  Public-house, — ^the  poor 
wife  contents  herself  with  Tea  and  Bread  aiid  Butter,  and 
the  children  are  half  starved. 

Dr.  Kitchiner^s  Receipt  to  make  a  cheap,  nutritive, 
and  palatable  Soup,  fully  adequate  to  satisfy  Appetite,  and 
support  strength,  will  open  a  new  source  to  those  benevolent 
Housekeepers,  who  are  disposed  to  relieve  the  poor, — ^will 
show  the  industrious  classes  how  much  they  have  it  in  their 
power  to  assist  themselves,  and  rescue  them  from  being  de- 
pendent on  the  precarious  bounty  of  others,  by  teaching  them 
now  they  may  obtain  an  abundant,  salubrious,  and  agreeable 
aliment  for  themselves  and  families,  for  One  Penny  per 
Quart.  See  page  235. 

For  various  Economical  Soups*  see  (Nos.  204,  239,  and 
240,  224,  221),  and  Obs.  to  (244),  (No.  252),  and  (Nos. 
493  and  502.) 

Obs^ — ^Dripping  intended  for  Soup,  should  be  taken  out 
9f  the  pan  almost  as  soon  as  it  has  dropped  from  the  meat; 
■—if  it  is  not  quite  clean,  clarify  it.    See  receipt  (No.  83.) 

Dripping  thus  prepared,  is  a  very  different  thing  fifom 
that  which  has  remained  in  the  Dripping-pan  all  the  time 


BtlbTH^,^  OUAri^,  AND  SOUPS.  247 

&e  i&eat  tias  been  roasting,  and  perhaps  live  eosQs  bave 
di^myed  into  it* 

Di8TRiBtnt*iHG  Soup,  does  not  answer  half  so  well  ns 
Caching  peopk  how  to  make  it^  and  improve  tkeir  comfort  at 
lfome,«-^tke  time  lost  in  watting  at  the  Soup  House  is  tsel-& 
dom  less  than  three  hours ;  in  which  time,  by  any  indus- 
trious occupation,  however  poorly  paid,  they  could  earn 
aore  money  than  the  quart  of  Soup  is  worth. 

Dr.  KiTCHiNER's  Recent  to  make  u  GcUlon  of  Barley 
Broth  far  a  Groat.    See  adso  (No..  204.) 

Put  four  ounces  of  Scotch  BarZcy  (previously  washed  iii 
cold  water),  and  four  ounces  of  sliced  Onions,  into  "five 
quarts  of  water; — ^boil  gently  for  one  hour,  and  pour  it  int6 
a  pan,  thto  put  into  the  saucepan  from  one  to  two  ounces  of 
dean  Beef  or  Mutton  Drippings,  or  melted  Suet;  (to  clarify 
these,  see  No.  83),  or  two  or  three  ounces  of  fat  Bacon 
faittced ;  when  melted,  stir  into  it  four  ounces  of  Oatmeal, 
tTib  these  together  till  you  make  a  paste,  (if  this  be  properly  ' 
managed,  the  whole  of  the  fat  will  combine  with  the  Barley 
Brolb,  and  not  a  particle  appear  on  the  surface  to  offend  the 
iaost  <klicate  stomach),  now  add  the  Barley  Broth,  at  first  a 
Spoonful  at  a  time,  then  the  rest  by  degrees,  stirring  it  well 
together  till  it  boils. — To  season  it,  put  a  drachm  of  finiely 
iP^fflded  Celery,  or  Cress  Seed,  (or  half  a  drachm  of  each,) 

*  We  copied  the  foUcmiDg  Receipt  from  The  Morning  Post,  Jan. 

Winter  iSoop.—  (No.  227.) 


210  lbs.  of  Beef,  fore  quarters. 
90  lbs.  of  Legs  of  Beef. 
3  Bushels  of  best  Split  Pease.- 
1  Busheft  6r  Floar. 


12  Bundles  of  Leeks. 
6  Bundles  of  Celery, 
12  lbs.  of  Salt. 
1 1  lbs.  of  Black  Pepper. 


These  good  imgrecfeDts  will  make  1000  quarts  of  oourishiog  and 
iigreeable  Soup,  at  an  expense  {Establishment  avoided)  of  little  less 
<^an2Jd.  per  quart. 

Of  this,  2(500  quarts  B  day  have  been  delivered  during  the  late  in- 
<^iDent  weather  and  the  cessation  of  ordinary  employment,  at  two 
(tt^UoBs  Id  the  parish  of  Bermondsey,  at  one  penny  per  quart,  by  which 
^0  families  have'  been  daily  assisted,  and  it  thankfully  reoelTed. 
Such  a  nourishment  and  comfort  could  not  have  been  provided  by  them- 
Klves  separately  for  four-pence  a  quart,  if  at  all,  and  reckoning  little 
«« then  ^e,  itothing  for  their  time. 


248  BROtaSy  ORAVIES^  AND  SOUfS*. 

and  a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  finely  pounded  Cayenne  {Nor< 
404),  or  a  drachm  and  a  half  of  ground  Black  Pepper,  or 
Allspice,  into  a  tea«cup,  and  mix  it  up  with  a  little  of  the 
soup,  aad  then  pour  it  into  the  rest,  stir  itthoroi^hly  together, 
let  it  simmer  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer^  season  it 
with  salt,  and  it^is  ready. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  by  doubling  the  portion  of 
Onions,  or  adding  a  clove  of  Garlic  or  Eshallot,  and  leaving 
out  the  Celery  Seed,  see  (No.  572),  or  put  in  shredded  Roots 
as  in  (No.  224) ;— or,  instead  of  Oatmeal,  thicken  it  with 
eround  Rice,  or  Peas,  &c.,  and  make  it  savoury  with  £ned 
Onions. 

This  preparation,  excellent  as  it  is,  wotdd,  widiQiit  varietyy 
soon  become  less  agreeable. 

Nothing  so  completely  disarms  Poverty  of  its  sting, — as 
the  means  of  renderii^  a  scanty  pittance  capable  of  yielding 
a  comfortable  variety. 

Change  of  Flavour  is  absolutely  necessary — ^not  n^erely  as 
a  matter  of  pleasure  and  comfort,  but  of  Health — Toujours 
Perdrix  is  a  true  proverb. 

This  Soup  will  be  m^ich  iinint)ved,  if,  instead  of  water,  it 
be  made  with  the  \iqmt  Meat  has  been  boiled  in ; — at  Tripe, 
Cow-heel,  and  Cook  shops,  this  may  be  had  for  little  or 
nothing. 

This  Soup  has  the  advantage  of  being  very  soon  and  easily 
made,  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  necessary  to  warm  a  room— 
those  who  have  not  tasted  it,  cannot  imagine  what  a  Savoury 
and  Satisfying  Meal  is  produced  by  the  combination  of  these 
cheap  and  homely  in^$dients. 

If  the  gen^ily  received  opinion  be  true,  that  Animal  and 
Vegetable  foods  afford  nourishment  in  proportion  to  the 
quantity  of  Oil,  Jelly,  and  Mucilage  that  can  be  extracted 
from  them, — this  Soup  has  strong  claims  to  the  attention  of 
Rational  Economists. 

Cray  Fish  Soup.— (So.  235.) 

This  Soup  is  sometimes  made  vnih  Beefy  or  Veal  Broth, 
or  with  Fish,  in  the  following  manner : 

Take  Flounders,  Eels,  Gudgeons,  &c.,  and  set  them  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water ;  when  it  is  pretty  nigh  boiling,  scum  it 


BROTHS,  GRAYIBS,  AND  SOUPS.  249 

well,  and  to  three  quarts  put  in  a  couple  of  Onions,  and  as 
many  Carrots  cut  to  pieces,  some  Parsley,  a  dozen  berries  of 
black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  and  about  half  a  hundred  Cray^ 
fish ;  take  off  the  small  claws,  and  shells  of  the  tails,  pound 
them  fine,  and  boil  them  with  the  broth  about  an  hour; 
strain  off,  and  break  in  some  crusts  of  bread  to  thicken  it, 
and  if  you  can  get  it,  the  spawn  of  a  lobster,  pound  it,  and 
pot  to  the  soup,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  a  couple  of 
minutes,  put  in  your  cray-fish  to  get  hot,  and  the  soup  is 
ready. 

Obs* — One  of  my  predecessors  recommends  Cray-fish 
POUNDED  ALIVE,  to  sfweeten  the  sharpness  of  the  BUxyd,"-^ 
Vide  Clermont's  Cookery^  p.  5,  London,  1776. 

**  Un  des  ^ands  Hommes  de  Bouche  de  France**  says  : — 
*'  Un  b(m  Coulis  d^Ecrevisses  est  le  Paradis  sur  la  terre^  et 
<%ne  de  la  table  des  Dieux;  and  of  all  the  tribe  of  Shell- 
fish, which  our  Industry  and  our  Sensuality  bring  from  the 
bottom  of  the  Sea,  the  River,  or  the  Pond,  the  Craw-fish  is 
incomparably  the  most  usefiil  and  the  most  delicious.*' 

Lobster  Soup.— (No.  237.) 

You  must  have  three  fine  lively*  Young  Hen  Lobsters, 
and  boil  them,  see  (No.  1 76) ;  when  cold,  split  the  tails, 
take  out  the  fish,  crack  the  claws,  and  cut  the  meat  into 
mouthfuls :  take  out  the  coral,  and  soft  part  of  the  body, 
braise  part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar,  pick  out  the  fish  from 
the  chines,  beat  part  of  it  with  the  coral,  and  with  this  make 
forcemeat  balls,  finely  flavoured  with  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  little 
grated  lemon-peel.  Anchovy  and  Cayenne ;  pound  these  with 
toe  yolk  of  an  Egg. 

nave  three  quarts  of  Veal  Broth ;  bruise  the  small  legs 
and  the  chine,  and  put  them  into  it,  to  boil  for  twenty 
xmnutes,  then  strain  it;  and  then  to  thicken  it,  take  the  live 
spawn  and  bruise  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  Butter  and 
Flour,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  the 
meat  of  the  lobsters,  and  the  remaining  coral ;  let  it  simmer 
▼eiy  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  its  fine  red 


■Ma** 


•  Read  (No.  176.) 
M  5 


250  mumBj  osii«tEs»  and  somm, 

tsolour  will  immediately  fede ;  turn  into  a  tareen,  add  tiic 
juice  of  a  good  lemon,  and  a  little  Essence  of  Anchovy. 

Soup  and  Bouilli. — (J^o.  238.) — See  also  (No.  5.) 

The  best  parts  for  this  purpose,  are  the  Leg  or  Shin,  or  a 
piece  of  the  middle  of  a  Brisket  of  Beef,  of  about  seven  or 
eight  pounds  weight ;  lay  it  on  a  fish  drainer,  or  when  yoo 
take  it  up,  put  a  slice  under  it,  which  will  enable  yon  to 
place  it  on  the  dish  entire ;  put  it  into  a  soup*pot  or  deep 
stewpan,  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  a  qtaort 
over,  set  it  on  a  quick  fire  to  get  the  scum  up,  which  resiDve 
as  it  rises ;  then  put  in  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  leebk 
or  two  large  onions,  two  heads  of  celery,  two  or  three  cloves, 
and  a  faggot  of  parsley  and  sweet  herbs ;  ^et  the  pot  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very  gently,  till  the  meat  is  Just 
tender  enough  to  eat;  this  will  require  about  four  or  five 
hours. 

Put  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  large  (Hiion,  and  a  head  or 
two  of  celery,  into  the  soup  whole, — ^take  them  out  as  soon 
as  they  are  done  enough,  lay  them  on  a  dish  till  they  are 
cold,  then  cut  them  into  small  squares: — when  the  Beef  is 
done,  take  it  out  carefully, — ^to  dish  it  up,  see  (No.  204,  or 
493),  strain  the  Soup  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan,  take  off  the  Fat,  and  put  the  Vegetables  that  are  cot 
into  the  Soup,  the  flavour  of  which  you  may  heighten,  li]f 
adding  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup. 

If  a  Thickened  Soup  is  preferred,  take  four  laxge  table- 
spoonsful  of  the  clear  Fat  from  the  top  of  the  pot,  and  four 
spoonsful  of  Flour ;  mix  it  smooth  together,  then  by  degrees 
stir  it  well  into  the  soup,  which  simmer  for  ten  minuleB 
longer  at  least,-*— skim  it  well,  and  pass  it  throi:^  a  tunmis, 
or  fine  sieve,  and  add  the  V^etabies  and  seasonii^  the  same 
as  directed  in  the  clear  soup. 

Keep  the  Beef  hot,  atid  send  it  up  £as  a  reuKwe  to  the 
Sovp)  with  finely  chopped  Parsley  sprinkled  o»  the  top,  and 
a  Sauce-boat  of  (No.  328.) 

(h^Head  Soup'—l^o.  329. J  .  •       . 

Should  be  prepared  (he  day  before  k  is  to  be  eaten,  as  yoa 


rttOfrHS,  OfKAyiBS,  A^D  sofvPs,  251 

eftii&ot  cot  th^  meat  off  the  head  into  neat  mouthfids  unless 

it  is  oold  :*-*therefore,  the  <]ay  before  you  want  this  Sonp,  * 

put  half  an  Ox  Cheek  into  a  tub  of  cold  water  to  soak  for  a 

ocnpte  of  hours,  then  brea&  the  bones  thatt  have  not  been 

broken  at  the  butcher's,  and  wash  it  very  well  in  warm 

water  ;  put  it  into  a  pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water;  when 

it  boils,  skim  it  very  clean,  and  then  put  in  one  head  of 

celery,  a  couple  of  carrots,  a  turnip,  two  large  onions,  two 

dozen  berries  of  black  pepper,  same  of  allspice,  and  a  bundle 

of  sweet  herbs,  such  as  maijoram,  lemon-thyme,  savory,  and 

a  hluddful  of  parsley ;  cover  the  soup-pot  close,  and  set  it  on 

a  slow  fire ;  take  off  the  scum,  wnich  will  rise  when  it  is 

coming  to  a  boil,  and  set  it  by  the  fire^side  to  stew  very  gently 

for  about  three  hours;  take  out  the  head,  lay  it  on  a  dish, 

pour  the  soup  through  a  fine  ^  sieve  into  a  stone- ware  pan, 

and  set  it  and  the  head  by  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day; — 

then,  cut  the  meat  into  neat  mouthluls,  skim  and  strain  off 

the  Broth, — put  two  quarts  of  it  and  the  Meat  into  a  clean 

stewpan,— let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  half  an  hour  longer, 

and  it  is  ready. — If  you  wish  it  thickened  (which  we  do 

not  recommend, — ^for  the  reasons  given  in  the  7th  Chapter 

of  liie  Rudiments  of  Cookery)  ,--*put  two  ounces  of  butter 

into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  throw  in  as  much  flour 

aswiB  dry  it  up;  when  they  are  all  well  mixed  togetherj, 

and  browned  by  degrees,  pour  to  this  your  soup,  and  stir  it 

well  together,  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer,  strain 

it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  dean  stewpan,  and  put  to  it 

the  neat  of  the  head, — let  it  stew  half  an  hour  longer, 

and  season  it  with  Cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  a  glass  of 

good  wine,  or  a  taWe-spbonful  of  brandy.     See  Ox-Cheek 

Stewed  (No.  507.) 

Ob$, — ^Those  who  wish  this  Soup  still  more  savoury,  &c 
for  the  Means  of  making  it  so  we  refer  to  (No.  247.) 
N.B»  This  is  an  Excellent  and  Economical  Soup, —         ? 

Half  an  Ox  Cheek  1  6     <- 

Celery 0  1 

Serbs.. >...*.   .......'...... O  18       

Carrots  and  Turnips 0  3  , 

;  :o»iaiM. «......- ......  rt   1 

Allspice,  and  Black  Pepper  and  Salt. .  &   I  -    "' 

%    2 


' 


252  BBOTHS,  ORAVIESy  AND  SOUFS^ 

and  costs  those  who  have  not  a  gardoi  of  their  own,  onfy 
2s.  2d. ;  and  is  a  good  and  plentiful  dinner  for  half  a  dozen 
people;  see  also  (No.  204),  and  (No.  229.) 

It  you  serve  it  as  Soup  for  a  dozen  people,  thidsea.  one 
Tureen,  and  send  up  the  Meat,  iii  that,-r4uKi  send  up  the 
other  as  a  clear  Gravy  Soup,  with  some  of  the  carrots  and 
turnips  shredded  or  cut  into  shapes. 

Ox  Tail  Soup.— (No.  240.) 

Three  Tails,  costing  ahout  7d.  each,  will  make  a  Tureen 
of  Soup ;  (desire  the  Butcher  to  divide  them  at  the  joints),, 
lay  them  to  soak  in  warm  water,  while  you  get  readjthe 
Vegetables. 

Put  into  a  gallon  stewpan,  eight  Cloves,  iyfro  or  .three 
Onions,  half  a  drachm  of  Allspice,  and  the  same  of  Black 
Pepper,  and  the  Tails  ;*  cover  them  with  cold  water,  skim 
it  carefully,  when  and  as  long  as  you  see  any  scum  rise  :— 
then  cover  the  pot.as  close  as  possible,  and  set  it  on  the  side 
of  the  fire  to  keep  gently  simmering  tiU  the  meat  becomes. 
tender^  and  will  leave  the  bones  easily,  because  it  is  to  be 
eaten  with  a  spoon,  without  the  assistance  of  a  knife  or 
fork ;  see  N.B.  to  (No.  244) ;  this  will  require  about  two 
hours ;  mind  it  is  not  done  too  muck :  when  perfectly  tender, 
take  out  the  meat  and  cut  it  off  the  bones,  in  neat  mouthfuls, 
skim  the  broth,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve : — ^if  yoo  prefer 
a  Thickened  Soup,  put  flour  and  butter,  as  directed  in  the 
preceding  Receipt,— or  put  two  table-spoonsful  of  the  Fatyou 
nave  taken  off  the  Broth  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  as  mudi. 
ilour  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste ;  set  this  over  the  fire,  and. 
stir  them  well  together,  then  pour  in  the  Broth  by  degrees^ 
stirring  it  and  mixing  it  with  the  thickening ; — let  it  simmer 
for  another  half  hour,  and  when  you  have  well  skimmed  it 
and  it  is  quite  smooth,  then  strain  it  through  a  tammis  into 
a  clean  stewpan,  put  in  the  Meat,  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439),  a  glass  of  Wine,  and  seas<Hi  it 
with  salt. 


*  Some  lovers  of  Baut'Go4tty  the  Tails  before  they  put 
iato  the  Soup«pot. 


KtOTHS^  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  253 

For  increasing  the  Ptanatuse  of  this  Soup,  read  (No.  247.) 
Obs.rSee  N.B.  to  (No.  244) ;  if  the  Meat  is  cot  off  the 
Bones,  you  must  have  three  Tails  for  a  Tureen,  see  N.B.  to 
(No.  244) ;  some  put  an  Ox  Cheek  or  Taik  in  an  earthen 
pan  with  all  the  ingredients  as  above,  and -send  them  to  a 
slow  oven  for  five  or  six  hours.  • 

N.B.  This  is  ahnost  as.  economical  as  the  preceding 
Soap: — 

s,  d. 

TbreeTails 1    9 

Onions  and  Spice , ••••..  0    2 

TaRK^  Q,v Ann  of  exceilmi  Soup  eoit  only    1  11 

To  Stew  Ox  Tails,  see  (No.  531.) 

Ox  Heel  iSotip.— (No.  240.)* 

Must  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  eaten.  Procure  an  Ox 
Heel  undressed,  or  only  scalded,  (not  one  that  has  been 
already  boiled,  as  they  are  at  the  Tripe  shops,  till  alhiost  all 
the  gelatinous  parts  are  extracted),  and  Two  that  have  been 
boiled  as  they  usually  are  at  the  Tripe  shops. 

Cut  the  meat  off  the  boiled  heels  into  neat  mouthfuk,  and 
set  it  by  on  a  plate  ;  put  the  trimmings  and  bones  into  a 
fltewpan,  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  the  unboiled  heel 
cut  into  quarters ; — furnish  a  stewpan .  with  two  onions  and 
two  turnips  pared  and  sliced,  pare  off  the  red  part  of  a 
couple  of  lai^  carrots,  add  a  couple  of  eshallots  cut  in  half, 
a  bunch  of  savory,  or  lemon-thvme,  and  double  the  quan- 
tity of  parsley ;  set  this  over  or  oy  the  side  of  a  slow  steady 
fire,  and  keep  it  closely  covered  and  simmering  very  gently 
(or  the  soup-liquor  will  evaporate),  for  at  least  seven  houn ; 
during  which,  take  care  to  remove  the  fat  and  scum  that  wiM 
nse  to  the  sur&ce  of  the  soup,  which  must  be  kept  as  ekan 
as  possible. 

Now  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  and  put  two  ounces 
cf  butter  into  a  clean  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  into 
It  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  add  to  it  by. 
<^rees  the  soup  liquor,  give  it  a  boil  up,  strain  it  throi^h 
a  sieve,  and  pint  in  the  peel  of  a  lemon  pared  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible^  and  a  couple  of  bay-leaveS|  and  the  meat  of  the  boiled 


254  »R0TBS9  6BATtlS»  ANO  fiOtTPfi. 

« 

heels,-*let  it  go  on  simmering  for  half  an  hcnfi'  longer^  t.  a. 
till  the  meat  is  tender.  Put  in  the  juice  of  a  Lemon,  a  glass 
of  Wine,  and  a  tablespoon-ful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  and  the 
soup  is  ready  for  the  tureen. 

06^.— Those  who  are  disposed  to  make  this  a  more  sub- 
stantial dish,  may  introduce  a  couple  of  sets  of  Goose  or 
Dndk  Gibblets,  or  Ox  tsdls^  or  a  pound  of  Veal  Cutlets,  cut 
into  mouthfuls. 

Hare^  Rabbity  or  Partridge  ^Sbtip.— (No.  241.) 

An  old  Hare,  of  Birds,  when  so  tough  as  to  defy  the 
teeth  in  any  other  form,  will  make  very  good  Soup. 

Cut  off  the  legs  and  shoulders,  divide  the  body  cross  ways, 
and  stew  them  very  gently  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  One 
carrot,  about  one  ounce  of  onion,  with  four  cloves,  two 
blades  of  pounded  mace,  twenty-four  black  peppers,  and  a 
boncUe  of  sweet  herbs,  till  the  Hare  is  tender,  (most  Cooks 
add  to  the  above  a  couple  of  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon,  and  a 
Bay  Leaf,  &c.  but  my  Palate  and  Purse  both  plead  against 
sudi  extravE^nce,  the  Hare  makes  sufficiently  savoury  Soup 
without  them) ;  the  time  this  will  take  depends  very  much 
upon  its  age,  and  how  long  it  has  been  kept  before  it  is 
dressed ;  as  a  general  rule  about  three  hours ;  in  the  mean- 
time, make  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  nice  forcemeat  balls  (as 
big  as  Nutmegs)  of  (No.  379)  ;  when  the  Hare  is  quite 
tender,  take  the  meat  off  the  Back,  and  the  upper  joint  of  the 
Legs,  cut  it  into  neat  mouthfuls,  and  lay  it  aside ;  cut  the 
rest  of  the  meat  oflf  the  legs,  shoulders,  &c.  mince  it,  and 
pound  it  in  a  mortar,  with  ai  ounce  of  butter,  and  two  or 
tliree  table-spoonsful  of  flour  moistened  with  a  little  Soup ; 
rub  this  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  it  into  the  Soup  to 
thicken  it ; — ^let  it  simmer  slowly  half  an  hour  longer, 
aikimming  it  well,; — put  it  through  the  Tammis,  into  the  pan 
again, — and  put;  in  the  meat  with  a  glasa  of  claret  or  Port 
wine,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  Currant  Jelly  to  each  quart  of 
Soup, — reason  it  with  salt,  put  in  the  forcemeat  bans,  and 
when  all  is  well  warmed,  the  Soup  is  ready. 

0&*.— Cold  Roast  Hare  will  make  excellent  soup. 
Chopi  it  in  pieces,  and  stew  it  in  water  (according  to  the 
quantity  of  Hare)  for  about  an  hour^  and  manage  it  as'  in  the 


1R0THS»  <IRAfTES,  AHD  80U98» 


255 


•bo?e  feoeipt ;  the  stufiing  of  ibe  hare  will  be  a  sobstitute 
for  sweet  herbs  and  seas^ming. 

N.6.  This  Soup  may  be  made  with  Mock  Harb,  see 
<No.  66.*) 

Game  5(wp.— (No.  242.) 

in  the  Game  Season,  it  is  easy  for  a  Cook  to  giie  heir 

roaster  a  very  good  Soup  at  a  very  little  expence,  l^  taking 

all  the  Meat  m  the  Breasts  of  any  cold  Birds  which  have 

been  left  the  prece<Ung  day,  and  pounding  it  in  a  mortar, 

uid  beating  to  pieces  the  legs  and  bones,  and  boiling  them 

ia  some  brotii  for  an  hour.    Boil  six  turnips,  mash  them, 

and  strain  them  through  a  tammis  cloth  with  the  meat  that 

•has  been  pounded  in  a  mortar,  strain  your  broth,  and  put  a 

Htde  of  it  at  a  time  into  the  tammis,  to  help  you  to  strain  all 

of  it  through.    Put  your  soup-kettle  near  the  fire,  but  dp  not 

let  it  boil ;  when  ready  to  dish  your  dinner,  have  six  yolks 

of  qgs  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  strain  through  a 

sieve,  put  your  soup  on  the  fire,  and  as  it  is  coming  to  a  boil, 

put  in  the  eggs,  and  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  do  not 

let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. 

Goose  or  Duck  Criblet  Soup.* — (No.  244.) 

Scald  and  pick  very  clean  a  couple  sets  of  Goose,— -or  four 
of  Dtic^  G^lets  (the  fresher  the  better,)  wash  them  weU  in 
^varm  water,  in  two  or  three  waters :  cut  off  the  Noses  and 
^lit  the  Heads,  divide  the  Gizzards  and  J^ecks  into  Mouth" 
pds^-^U  the  Gizzards  are  not  ctit  into  pieces, — ^before  they 
are  done  enough,  the  rest  of  the  Meat,  &c.  will  be  done  too 
i&iKh;*—- and  Knives  and  Forks  have  no  business  in  a  Soup 
plate.  Crack  the  bones  of  the  Legs,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan,— cover  them  with  cold  water :  when  they  boil,  take 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  put  in  a  bundle  of  herbs, 
sach  as  Lemon  Thyme,  Winter  Savory,  or  Marjoram,  about 
tliree  sprigs  of  each, — and  double  the  quantity  of  Parsley,  an 
Qmouy— twenty  berries  of ,  Allspice,  the  same  of  black  Pep** 
per,  tie  them  all  up  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  set  them,  to  stem 


^  Fowls*  or  Tdbkbvs'  Beads  make  good  and  cheap  Soup  io  the 
nmo  manner* 


256  BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  ANI>  SOUPS; 

verygently^  till  the  Gizzards  are  tender ;-— this  will  take  from 
an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  accoiding  to  the  size  and 
age  of  the  Giblets : — ^take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  or  a 
^poon  full  of  holes,  put  them  into  the  tureen,  and  coyer  down 
dose,  to  keep  warm  till  the  Soup  is  ready. 

To  Thicken  the  Soup. — Melt  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
butter  in  a  clean  stewpan,  stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  will  make 
it  into  a  paste ;  then  pour  to  it  by  d^rees  a  ladleful  of  the 
Giblet  liquor,  add  the  remainder  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  about 
half  an  hour,  stirring  it  all  the  whiles  for  fear  it  should  bora, 
— «kim  it  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  B^n,— 
wash  out  the  stewpan, — then  return  the  Soup  into  it,  and 
season  it  with  a  Glass  of  Wine^  a  table-spoonful  o£  Mush- 
room Catsup,  and  a  little  salt, — ^let  it  have  one  boil  up, — 
and  then  jput  the  Giblets  in  to  get  hot,  and  the  Soup  is  ready. 

0&f.«— Thus  managed,  one  set  of  Goose  or  two  of  Dwk 
Giblets  (which  latter  may  sometimes  be  had  for  3(2.,)  .wiH 
make  a  Quart  of  healthful,  nourishing  Soup  :  if  you  think 
the  Giblets  alone  will  not  make  the  Gravy  savoury  enough, 
add  a  pound  of  Beef,  or  Mutton,  or  bone  of  a  knuckle  of 
Veal,  and  heighten  its  *^  piquaivxi*^  by  adding  a  few  leaves 
of  sweet  Basil,  the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange  or  lemon, 
and  half  a  glass  of  Wme,  and  a  little  of  (No.  343*)  to  each 
quart  of  Soup. 

Those  who  are  fond  of  Forcemeat,  may  slip  the  akin  dR 
the  neck,  and  fill  it  with  (No;  378,)  tie  up  die  other  end 
tight,  put  it  into  the  soup  about  half  an  hour  before  you  take 
it  up,  or  make  some  nice  savoury  Balls  of  the  Diick  stiiffing 
(No.  61.) 

06<.^-Bespeak  the  Giblets  a  couple  of  days  before  you  de- 
sire to  have  them ;  this  is  a  favourite  Soup  when  the  Giblets 
are  done  till  nicely  tender,  but  yet  not  overboiled.  Giblets 
may  be  had  from  July  to  January, — the  fresher  they  are,  the 
better. 

N.  B.  This  is  rather  a  family  dish  than  a  company  one, — 
the  Bon^  cannot  be  well  picked,  without  the  help  of  Alive 
Pincers. 

Since  Tom  Coryat  introduced  Forks,  A.D.  1642,  it  has 
not  been  the  fashion  to  put  "pickers  and  stealers'*  iato 
Soup. 


BROTHS^  ORA.Vl£S»  AND  BQVfS.  257 


Hock  Mogr  Turtle, — (No.  245.) — as  made  by  Eliia- 
BBTH  LiST'BR  fkUe  Cook  to  Dr.  KitchinerjJ  Bread  and 
Bisant  Bahety  No,  6,  Salcombe  Place^  York  Terraoe^ 
RegenVs  Park. — €foes  oui  to  Dress  Dinners  on  reasonable 
terms*. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  that  will  hold  five  pints, 
with  an  ounce  of  nice  lean  Bacon,  or  Ham,  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  lean  gravy  Beef,  a  Cow  Heel,  the  inner  nnd  of  a  car- 
rot, a  sprig  of  lemon  thyme,  winter  savoury,  three  times  the 
quantity  of  parsley,  a  few  green  leaves  of  sweet  basil,*  and 
two  shallots ;  put  in  a  large  Onion,,  with  four  cloves  stuck  in 
it,  18  corns  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black  pepper ;  pour  on 
these  a  Quarter  of  a  piat  of  cold  water,  cover  the  stewpan, 
and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  to  boil  geiitly  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour;  then,  for  fear  the  meat  should  catch,  take  off  the  cover, 
and  watch  it ;  and  when  it  has  got  a  good  brown  colour,  fill 
up  the  stewpan  with  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
gently  for  two  hours  ;^f  you  wish  to  have  the  full  benefit 
of  the  meat,  only  stew  it  till  it  is  just  tender,  cut  it  into  mouth* 
iuls,  and  put  it  intgilfildK)up.    To  Thicken  it,  pour  to  two 
or^ree  table-spoonsfiTl'of  Flour,  a  ladleful  of  the  gravy,  and 
^r  it  quick  till  it  is  vrell  mixed  ;  pour  it  back  into  the  stew- 
pan where  the  gravy  is,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an 
hour  longer,  skim  it,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  tammis  into 
the  stewpan:  cut  tW  cow-heel  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
square,  squeeze  through  a  sieve  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  ground  black  pefjper,  as  mtich  grated  nut- 
meg as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  sherry 
vine ;  let  it  all  simmer  together  for  five  minute  longer. 


*  To  this  fine  aromatic  !lerb,  turtle  Soup  is  much  indebted  for  its 
spicy  flftTour,  and  the  big})  esteem  it  is  held  in  by  the  good  citizens  of 
liondon,  who^  I  believe,  are  pretty  generally  of  the  same  opinion  as 
Dfr.  Salmon.  See  his  "  Household  Dictionary  and  Estay  on  Cookery,** 
8to.  London,  1710,  page  34,  article  *  Basil.'  "  This  comforts  the 
^rt,  expels  melancholy,  and  cleanses  the  lungs/'  See  (No.  307.) 
"  This  plant  gave  the  peculiar  flavour  jo  The  original  Fitter  Lane 
^agea,*'    Gray's  Supplement  to  the  Pharmacopoeia,  8vo.  1 821 .  p.  Si. 


S58  ^OTHS,  ORATIES,  A^D   SOUPS. 

Forcemeat  or  £^  balls  may  be  added  if  yoa  pkase ;  70 
wilJ  find  a  receipt  for  these  (No.  380,  &c.) 

•,•  j1  pound  of  Veal  Cutlets,  or  the  belly  part  of  pidde 
Pork,  or  nice  doubie  Tripe  eat  into  pieces  about  an  inc 
square,  and  half  an  inch  thick,  and  rounded  and  trtnuiu 
•ueotiy  frora,  all  akin,  gristle,  ifc,  and  Hewed  till  they  art  ta 
der,  Kill  be  a  great  addiiioti, 

t.d. 
One  fimd  and  a  half  iif  Ortag  Be^   ..10 

Cow  Heel 0  1 

BoeUimdHeTbt,^c. 0  3 

Batter  and  Ftour 0  4 

Wine 0  fl 

Hal/ a  Lemon 0  I 

Baconi^.^re 0  4 

Taiaioarlteait  anlg.,..,.  3  1 

Mock  Turtle— (No.  247.) 

Is  the   "  Bonne  Bovche"  which  "  the  Officers  of  tb 

Mouth"  of  Old   Eiigiand*  prepare,  when  they  choose  t 

rJTal  "  les  Grands  Cuisiniers  de  France'"  m  a  RagoAt  aat 

PareH, 

■  The  foltawing  Receipt  is  an  attempt  (and  the  Commilte 
^  Taste  pronounced  it  a  successful  one,)  lo  imitate  the  ei 
cellent  and  generally  approved  Mock  Turtle  made  by  Messn 
Birch,  Combill. 

Endeavour  to  have  the  Head,  and  the  Broth  ready  for  li 
Souptf  the  day  before  it  is  to  he  eaten, 

■  It  will  take  Eight  Hours  to  prepare  it  properly, 

*  Tout  1e  monde  ssit  que  lous  lea  HageHts  qu)  )iarteat  le  nom  i 
ToRTDE,  soot  d'origiue  Anglaiae." — Manuei  des  Anphilriont,  So 

ISM,  p.  see. 

t  Tbose  who  do  not  like  the  trouh1e,^c  of  makinci  Mock  Tofll 
mny  be  supplied  with  il  rend;  made,  in  high  perfeclion,  at  Bihcb'. 
hi  Comhill.  2t  fs  noi  poisoned  with  Cayenne  Pepper,  which  the  Tm 
tie  and  Mock  Turtle  Soup  of  most  Pasliy  Cooks  and  Tavern  Cooks  i 
and  10  that  degree.  Ibatii  nets  like  a  BlUlerou  the  Coals  of  the  Stomu 
whif  h  prerenla  our  mentioniug  anji  oilier  maker  of  (his  Soup,  nbich 
aflea  made  with  Cuw  HmI,  or  the  mere  Scalp  of  the  Calf's  Bea 
iMtead  of  (be  Head  itself. 

The foUowiiig are  Mr.  Birch's  Direclions  fbr  warning ihbSoi^- 


VROTHSy   GRATTE8,  AND  SOITFS,  259 

hours, 

QeBoing  and  soaldag  the  head  1 

To  parboil  it  to  eut  up    ...1 

Cooling,  neady 1 

MaloDg  the  Broth  and  finishing  the  Soap \  S 

8  hHO's. 

tjret  a  Calf's  head  with  the  skin  on,  f  the  fresher  ike  better,/ 
take  out  the  brains,  wash  the  head  several  times  in  cold 
water,  let  it  soak  for  about  an  hour  in  spring  water,  then 
fay  it  in  a  stewpan;  and  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and 
half  a  gallon  over  ;  as  it  becomes  warm,  a  great  deal  of  scum 
will  rise,  which  must  be  immediately  removed, — let  it  boil 
gently  for  one  hour,  take  it  up,  and  when  almost  cold,  cut 
the  head  into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half  by  an  inch  and 
a  quarter,  and  the  tongue  into  mouthfuls,  or  rather  make  a 
side  dish  of  the  Tongue  and  Brains,  as  in  (No.  10.) 

When  the  Headis  taken  out,  put  in  the  Stock  Meat^*  about 
five  pounds  of  Knuckle  of  Veal,  and  as  much  Beef,  add  to 
the  stock  all  the  Trimmings  and  Bones  of  the  Head,  skim 
it  well,  and  then  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  boil  five  hours,  (re- 
serve a  couple  of  quarts  of  this  to  make  Gravy  Sauces,  &c. 
tee  (No.  307>)  then  strain  it  off,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next 
morning, — ^then  take  off , the  fat,  set  a  large  stewpan  on  the 
fire  with  half  a  pound  of  good  fresh  butter,  twelve  ounces  of 
Onions  sliced,  and  four  ounces  of  green  Sage,  chop  it  a  little^ 
let  these  fry  one  hour,"  then  rub  in  half  a  pound  of  flour,  and 
by  degrees  add  your  Broth,  till  it  is  the  thickness  of  Cream, 
season  it  with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground  Allspice  and 
half  an  ounce  of  Black  Pepper  ground  very  fine,  salt  to  your 

Empty  the  Turtle  into  a  broad  earthen  Vessel^  to  keep  Cool :  vhea 
w&Blbe^  for  Table,  to  two  quarts  of  Soup  add  one  gill  of  boiling  Water 
or  Veal  Broth,  put  it  over  a  good  clear  Fire,  keeping  it  ^ntly  stin^d^ 
(that  it  maj  not  burn,)  when  it  has  boiled  about  three  minutes^  skim  it, 
and  put  it  in  the  Tureen. 

N.  B. — The  Broth  or  Water,  and  the  Wine,  to  be  put  into  tbe  Stewpan 
More  you  put  in  the  Turtle. 

*  The  reader  may  have  remarked,  that  Mock  Tortlb  and  Potteb 
Bbsv  always  coaae  in  season  together. 

See  Obs.  to  (No.  503.*)  This  Gravt  Mbat  will  make  an  excellent 
flBMtfrf  Potted  Relish,  as  it  will  be  impregnated  with  the  flavour  of 
the  herbs  and  spice  that  are  boiled  with  H. 


260  BROTHS,  QRAVIfiS,  AN0  SOU^& 

tattte,  and  the  rind  of  one  Lemon  peeled  very  thin ;  let  it 
simmer  very  gently  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  strain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve, — do  not  rub  your  Soup  to  get  it  through 
the  sieve,  or  it  will  make  it  grouty;  if  it  does  not  run  through 
easily,— knock  your  wooden  spoon  against  the  side  of  your 
sieve, — ^put  it  in  a  clean  stewpan  with  the  Head,  and  season 
rr  by  adding  to  each  gallon  of  Soup  half  a  pint  of  Wine — 
this  should  be  Madeira,  or  if  you  wish  to  darken  the  colour 
of  your  Soup,  Claret,  and  two  table-spoonsful  of  Lemon  juice, 
see  (No.  407,)*  let  it  simmer  gently  till  the  Meat  is  tender; 
this  may  take  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour : — take  care  it  it 
not  Overdone  ; — stir  it  frequently  to  prevent  the  meat  sticking 
to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  and  wnen  the  meat  is  quite  ten- 
dee  the  soup  is  ready. 

A  Head  weighing  twenty  pounds,  and  ten  pounds  of  stock 
meat,  will  make  Ten  quarts  of  excellent  Soup, — ^besides  the 
two  quarts  of  stock  you  have  put  by  for  Made  Dishes,  &c. 

Obs, — If  there  is  more  meat  on  the  head  than  you  wish  to 
put  in  the  soup,  prepare  it  for  a  Pie,  and  with  the  addition 
tf  a  Calf's  foot,  boiled  tender,  it  will  make  an  excellent 
KAGotrr  Pifi ;  season  it  with  Zest,  and  a  little  minced  Onion, 
put  in  half  a  tea-cupful  of  stock,  cover  it  with  puff  paste, 
and  bake  it  oiie  hour :  when  the  soup  comes  from  table,  if 
there  is  a  deal  of  meat  and  no  soup,  put  it  into  a  pie-dish, 
season  it  a  little,  and  add  some  little  stock  to  it,  then  cover  it 
with  paste,  bake  it  one  hour,  and  you  have  a  good  Mock 
TwiTLK  Pie. 

This  Soup  was  eaten  by  the  Committee  of  Taste  with  una^ 
nimons  applause,  and  they  pronounced  it  a  very  satisfactory 
substitute*  for  "  the  far-fetcht  and  dear  bought"  Turtle; 
which  is  entirely  indebted  for  its  Title  of  "  Sovereign  ^0F 
Savouriness,"  to  the  Kich  Soup  with  which  it  is^  jur- 
Tounded. 


*  *'  Many  Gourmets  and  Gagtiologers  piefer  the  copy  to  the  (nigiiial 
—we  confess  that  when  done  as  it  ought  to  be,  the  Mock  Turtle  is  es- 
ceedin^y  interesting.'*— Ta^etf a  Cibaria,  182U,  p.  30. 

<'  Turtles  often  become  emaciated  and  sickly  before  they  reach  this 
country,  in  wfakh  case  the  Soup  would  be  incomparably  improved,  by 
leaving  out  the  Turtle,  and  substituting  a  good  Calfs  Head,** — Stigppk* 
ment  to  JSSncye.  Brit.  Edinburgh,  vol.  iv.  p.  331. 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS.  261 

Without  its  paraphernalia  of  subtle  Double  Relishes,  a 
'^STARVED  TURTLE!^  has  not  more  intrinsic  sapidity 

than  a  **  FATTED  CALF/'  —Friendly  Reader 
it  is  really  not  either  half  so  wholesome,  or  half  so  toothsome. 
See  Essence  of  Turtle,  (No.  343,*)  and  Obs.  to  (No.  493.) 
To  warm  this  Soup,  see  (No.  485.) 

To  Season  it,  to  each  Gallon  of  Soup  put  two  tabk- 
spoonsful  of  Lemon  Juice,  see  (No.  407*),  same  of  Mush- 
room Catsup  (No.  439),  and  ODe  of  Essence  of  Anchovy 
(No.  433),  half  a  pint  of  Wine,  (this  should  be  Madeira,  or 
if  you  wish  to  darken  the  colour  of  your  Soup,  Claret),  a 
tea-spoonful  of  Curry  Powder  (No.  455),  or  a  quarter  of  a 
drachm  of  Cayenne,  and  the  peel  of  a  Lemon  pared  as  thin 
98  possible ;  let  it  simmer  five  minutes  more,  take  out  the 
Lemon  Peel,  and  the  Soup  is  ready  for  the  Tureen. 

While  the  Soup  is  doing,  prepare  for  each  tureen^  a  do«« 

zen  and'  a  half  of '  Mock  Turtle  Forcemeat  Balls,  (to  make 

these,  see  (No.  375)  or   (No.  376),  (No.  390  to  No.  396), 

we  prefer  the  stuffing  ordered  in  (No.  61),  and  a  dozen  Egg 

balls;  and  put  them  into  the  tureen.    Brain  Balls,  or 

cdces,  are  a  very  elegant  addition,  and  are  made  by  boiUi^ 

the  brains  for  ten  minutes,  then  putting  them  in  cold  water, 

vA  cutting  them  into  pieces  about  as  big  as  a  large  nutmeg ; 

take  Savory,  or  Lemon-thyme  dried  and  finely  powdered, 

nutmeg  grated,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and  pound  them  all 

together ;  beat  up  an  e^,  dip  the  brains  in  it,  and  then  roll 

them  in  this  p)ixture,  and  make  as  much  of  it  as  possible 

fltick  tothem,  dip  them  in  the  egg  again,  and  then  in  finely 

grated  and  sifted  bread  crumbs,  fry  them  in  hot  lab,  and 

le&d  them  up  as  a  side  dish. 

A  VEAL  SWEETBREAD,  prepared  as  in  (No.  89),  not  too 
BMidi  done  or  it  will  break,  cut  into  pieces  the  same  size  as 
yoQcutthe  calfs  head,  and  put  in  the  soup,  just  to  get  warm 
before  it  goes  to  table,  is  a  superb  ''  Bonne  Bouche ;"  and 
Kckjed  Tongue,  stewed  till  very  tender,  and  cut  into  mouth* 
fuls,  is  a  fevourite  addition.  We  order  the  meat  to  be  cut 
into  Mouthfiils,  that  it  may  be  eaten  with  a  spoon :  theKnifli 
<>nd  Fojrk  have  no.husiTiess  in  a  Soup  plate. 

*«*  Some  of  our  culinary  ^nrntemporariesy  order  the  HanU-* 
9^  of  this  fat  above  directed,  sufficiently  relishing)  Soup 


y 


262  BAOTHSy  GRAVIBS^  Ayi>  SOUPS. 

to  be  (iombustibled  and  be^devilledy  tvith  a  copious  addUion 
of  AnchovieSy — Mushrooms^ — Truffles^ — Morells, — Cwrfy- 
powder, — Artichoke  bottoms,^-Salmon's  head  and  livers, — 
6r  the  soft  part  of  Oysters  or  Lobsters^ — Soles  cut  in  mouths 
fals, — a  bottle  of  Madeira, — a  pint  of  Brandy,  8fc.,  and  to 
complete  their  surfeiting  and  bum-gullet  Olio,  they  put  in, 
such  a  tremendous  quantity  of  Cayenne  pepper, — that  only  a 
fire^proof  palate^  lined  with  Asbestos,  or  indurated  by  Indian 
Diet,  can  endure  it.     See  JVbfe  under  (No.  493). 

N.  B.  In  helping  this  Soup,  the  distributor  of  it  shookt 
serve  out  the  Meat, — ^Forcemeat, — and  Gravy, — ^in  equal 
parts  ;  however  trifling  or  needless  this  remark  may  app>eary 
the  writer  has  often  suffered  from  the  want  of  such  a  hint 
being  given  to  tlie  Soup-servei',  who  has  sometimes  sent  a 
plate  of  mere  Gravy  without  Meat, — at  others,  of  Meal 
without  Gravy,  and  sometimes  scarcely  any  thing  but  Force- 
meat  Balls. 

Obs. — This  is  a  delicious  Soup,  within  the  reach  of  those 
who  **  eat  to  live  ;'*  but  if  it  had  been  composed  expressly 
for  those  who  only  *Mive  to  eat,"  I  do  not  know  now  it 
could  have  been  made  more  agreeable :  as  it  is,  the  lover  of 
good  eating  will  •'  wish  his  Throat  a  mile  long,  and  every 
mch  of  it  Palate." 

N.  B.  Cucumber  in  a  side  plate  is  a  laudable  Vegetable 
accompaniment. 

English  T«r«/e.— (No.  248.) 

See  (No.  502).    «*  Alamode  Bkef." 

Curry,  or  Mullaga-Tawny  *  Soup. — (No,  249.) 

Cut  41bs.   of  a   Breast  of  Veal  into  pieces,   about  two 

inches  by  one ;  put  the  trimmings  into  a  stewpan  with  two 

—  -" —  

*  Mullaga-  Tawny  signifies  Pepper  Water.  Tbe  progress  of  inez* 
perienced  peripatetic  Palatieians  has  lately  been  arresied  by  this  out- 
landish word  being  pasted  on  the  windo\('s  of  our  Coftee- Houses;  it 
has,  we  believe,  answered  the  ^^  Reatawateurs^**  ^ut^oad,  and  oAen 
excited  John  Bull  to  walk  in  and  taste — tbe  more  familiar  name  of 
Curry  £ia»j9-»would,  perhaps,  npt  have  had  sufficient  of  the  charms  of 
novelty  to  seduce  him  from  his  much-loved  Mock.  Turtle. 

It  is  a  fashionable  Soup,  and  a  great  favourite  with  our  East  ImiiaB 
ffftends,  and  we  give  the  best  receipt  we  could  procure  for  it. 


BROTHS,  GRAVXESy  AND  SOUPS*  263 

quarts  of  water^  with  twelve  corns  of  Black  Pepper,  and  the 
same  of  Allspice ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  clean,  and  let  it 
boil  ah  hour  and  a  half,  then  strain  it  off; — ^while  it  is  boil- 
j^  fry  of  a  nice  brown  in  butler  the  bits  of  Veal  and  four 
Onions ;  when  they  are  done»  put  the  Broth  to  them,  put  it 
on  the  fire ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  clean, — let  it  simmer  half 
an  hour,  then  mix  two  spoonsful  of  Curry  and  the  same  of 
Flour,  with  a  little  cold  water  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ; 
add  these  to  the  soup,  and  simmer  it  gently  till  the  Veal  is 
quite  tender,  and  it  is  ready ; — or  bone  a  couple  of  Fowls  or 
fiJibbits,  and  stew  them  in  the  manner  directed  above  for 
the  Veal, — and  you  may  put  in  a  bruised  Eshallot,  and 
some  Mace  and  Ginger,  instead  of  Black  Pepper  and  All- 
spice. 

06«.— Read  (No.  497). 

TuHle  *  iSowp.— (No.  250.) 

As  it  is  our  wish  that  this  work  should  be  given  to  the 
Public  at  the  lowest  possible  price,  the  Receipt  for  dressing 
a  Turtle  is  taken  out — as  a  professed  Cook  is  always  hired 
for  the  purpose  of  dressing  it.  The  space  this  long  receipt 
occupied  is  now  filled  with  directions  for  making  useful 
Kckles.    See  (No.  462.) 

*  "  The  usual  allawance  at  a  Tortlb  Feast,  is  Six  Poundji  live 
wnght  per  Head ;— at  the  Spanish  Dinner,  at  the  City  of  London 
Tavern,  in  August  1808,  400  guests  attended,  and  2500  pounds  of 
Turtle  were  consumed/'  See  Bell's  Weekly  Messenger  for  August  7th, 
1806. 

Bpieure  Qoin  used  to  say,  it  was  "  not  safe  to  sit  down  to  a  Turtle 
ffut  at  one  of  the  City  HaUs,  without  a  basket^hilted  Kai/e  and 
Rork:> 

We  recommend  our  friends,  before  encountering  such  a  temptation, 
to  reed  our  Peptic  Precepts.  Nothing  is  more  difficult  of  digestion, 
oc  oftener  requires  the  aid  of  Peristaltic  Persuaders,  than  the  glu- 
tinous Callipash  which  is  considered  the  **  bonne  bouche*'  of  this 
Soup. 

ToBTLB  is  generally  spoiled  by  being  over-dresaed.  If  the  Reader 
bu  any  curiosity  to  know  how  it  is  prepared  in  the  most  superlatiye 
«tyit,-~it  will  bo  gratified  in  the  highest  4vgree,  if  he  pays  a  visit  to 
AufoK  House,  ia  Aldersgate  Street. 


264 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 


Portable  ♦  Soup, — w  Glaze. — (No.  252.) 

Desire  the  Butcher  to  break  the  bones  of  a  Leg  or,  a  Shin 
of  Beef,  of  ten  pounds  weight  (the  fresher  killed  the  better), 
put  it  into  a  Soup-pot  (a  Digester  f  is  the  best  utensil  for 
this  purpose)  that  will  well  hold  it;  just  cover  it  with  cold 
water,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  heafgradually  till  it  nearly 
boils,  (this  should  be  at  least  an  hour) ; — skim  it  attentively 
while  any  scum  rises,-— pour  in  a  little  cold  water,  to  throw 
up  the  scum  that  may  remain, — let  it  come  to  a  boil  again, 
and  again  skim  it  carefully :  when  no  more  scum  rises,  and 
the  broth  appears  clear,  (put  in  neither  Roots  nor  Herbs  nor 
Salt,)  let  it  boil  for  eight  or  ten  houirs,  and  then  strain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  brown  stone  pan  ;  set  the  Broth 
where  it  will  cool  quickly  ;  put  the  meat  into  a  sieve,  let  it 
drain,  make  Potted  Beef  (No.  503),— or  it  will  be  very  ac- 
ceptable to  many  poor  families.  Next  day  remove  every 
particle*  of  Fat  from  the  top  of  it,  and  pour  it  ftrough  a 
tammis  or  fine  sieve  as  quietly  as  possible  into  a  Stewpan, 
taking  care  not  to  let  any  of  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the 
stone  pan  go  into  the  Stewpan,  which  should  be  of  thick 
Copper,  perfectly  well  tinned ;  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 

*  ''  A  pound  of  meat  contains  about  an  ounce  of  gelatinous  mattei ; 
it  tbeoce  follows,  that  1500  pounds  of  the  same  meat,  which  is  11m 
whole  weight  of  a  bullock,  would  give  only  94  pounds,  which  migftt 
be  easily  contained  in  an  earthen  Jar." — Dr.  Hdtton's  BationaiRi- 
creations,  vol.  iv.  p.  194. 

In  what  degree  Portable  or  other  Soup  be  nutritious,  we  know  not, 
b«t  refer  the  reader  to  onr  note  under  (No,  IS6.*) 

f  This  machine  was  invented  by  Dr.  Denys  P^io,  F.  R.  S.,  about 
the  year  1631,  as  appears  by  his  Essay  on  "^  Tke  Nm  Diffe»ier,§r 
Engine /or  Softening  Bones,"  '^by  the  help  of  which,  (he  says)  the 
oid^  and  hardest  Cow  Beef  may  be  made  as  tender  and  as  savoury  is 
young  and  choice  Meat.''  Cast  Iron  Digesters  are  made  at«AiciltsMi 
and  Moaer*s,  in  Frith-street,  Soho. 

Although  we  have  not  yet  found  that  they  do  what  Dr.  Papin  aiyi^ 
<'  make  old  and  tough  Meat — young  d  tender,'*  they  are,  however* 
eicellent  things  to  make  Broths  and  Soups  in.  Among  a  multitude  of 
other  admirable  excellencies  obtainable  by  his  Digester,  Da.  Pafiv 
in  page  54,  of  his  9th  Chapter,  on  the  Profit  that  a  good  Bngine  may 
come  to,  says,  *'  I  have  found  that  An  Qtd  Hat,  very  bad  and  loosely 
made,  having  imbibed  the  Jelly  of  Bones,  became  very  firm  and  stiff." 


BROTHS,  GRAVIES5  AND  SOUPS.  265 

whole  Black  Pepper  to  it,  let  it  boil  briskly,  with  the  stew- 
pan  uncovered,  on  a  quick  fire :  if  any  scum  rises,  take  it 
off  with  a  skimmer;  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  is  re- 
duced to  about  a  quart,  put  it  into  a  smaller  stewpan ;  set  it 
over  a  gentler  fire,  till  it  is  reduced  to  the  thickness  of  a 
very  thick  Syrup ;  take  care  that  it  does  not  bum, — a  mo^ 
fi^ient*s  inattention  now  will  lose  you  cUl  your  labour^  and  the 
soup  will  be  spoiled: — take  a  little  of  it  out  in  a  spoon  and 
kt  it  cool ;  if  it  sets  into  a  strong  Jelly,  it  is  done' enough ; — 
if  it  does  not,  boil  it  a  little  longer  till  it  does ; — have  ready 
some  little  pots,  such  as  are  used  for  Potted  Meats,  about  an 
inch  and  a  half  deep,  taking  care  that  they  are  quite  dry; — 
we  lecommend  it  to  be  kept  in  these  pots,  if  it  is  for  home 
consumption — [the  less  it  is  reduced  tlte  better  is  the  flavour 
of  the  Soup) — if  it  be  sufficiently  concentrated  to  keep  for 
six  months ; — if  you  wish  to  preserve  it  longer,  put  it  into 
such  bladders  as  are  used  for  German  Sausages,  or  if  you 
prefer  it  in  the  form  of  Cakes,  pour  it  into  a  dish  about  a 
quarter  of  an  Inch  deep ;  when  it  is  cold,  turn  it  out  and 
weigh  the  Cake,  and  divide  it  with  a  paste-cutter  into  pieces 
of  half  an  ounce  and  an  ounce  each ;  place  them  in  a  warm 
room,  and  turn  them  frequently  till  they  are  thoroughly 
dried ;— ^this  will  take  a  week  or  ten  days ;  turn  them  twice 
a  day ; — when  well  hardened,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place,  they 
may  be  preserved  for  several  years  in  any  climate. 

This  extract  of  Meat  makes  excellent  ^'  Tablettes  de  Bou- 
tOon,"  for  those  who  are  obliged  to  endure  long  fasting. 

If  the  surface  becomes  mouldy,  wipe  it  with  a  little  warm 
water,  the  mouldy  taste  does  not  penetrate  the  mass. 

If,  after  several  days*  drying,  it  does  not  become  so  hard 
as  you  wish,  put  it  into  a  Bainmarie  Stewpan,  or  Milk-boiler^ 
(these  are  made  by  Lloyd,  Tinman,  near  Norfolk-street, 
Strand),  till  it  is  evaporated  to  the  consistence  you  wish- 
er, set  the  Pots  in  a  cool  Oven,  or  in  a  Cheese-toasterj  at  a 
considerable  distance  from  the  fire ;  this  is  the  only  safe  way 
of  reducing  it  very  much  without  the  risk  of  its  burning,  and 
acquiring  an  extremely  disagreeable  acrid  flavour,  &c. 

Obs. — The  uses  of  this  concentrated  Essence  of  Meat  are 
numerous.  It  is  equally  economical  and  convenient  for 
making  extempore  Broths  enumerated  in  the  Obs.  to  (No.  200), 

N 


266  BROTHS,   GRAVIES,  AND  SOUPS. 

Sauces  and  Gravies  for  Hashed  or  Stewed  Meat,  Game,  or 
Poultry,  &c. 

You  may  thicken  it  and  flavour  it  as  directed  in  (No.  329); 
— to  make  Gravy^  Sauces,  &c.  take  double  the  quantity  or- 
dered for  Broth. 

If  you  have  time  and  opportunity,  ds  there  is  no  seasoning 
iti  the  Soup,  either  of  Roots,  Herbs,  or  Spice,  boil  an 
Onion  with  or  without  a  bit  of  Parsley  and  Sweet  Herbs, 
and  a  few  corns  of  Allspice,  or  other  Spice,  in  the  water  yon 
melt  the  Soup  in,  which  may  be  flavoured  with  Mushroom 
Catsup  (No.  439),— or  Eshallot  Wine  (No.  402),— Essence 
of  Sweet  Herbs  (No.  417),— Savoury  Spice  (No.  421,  or 
457),— Essence  of  Celery  (No.  409),  &c.  or  Zest  (No.  265) ; 
these  fhay  be  combined  in  the  proportions  most  agreeable  to 
the  palate  of  the  Eater — and  are  as  portable  as  Portable  Soup, 
for  a  verv  small  portion  will  flavour  a  Pint. 

The  fiditor  adds  nothing  to  the  solution  of  this  Soup,  but 
a  very  httle  ground  Black  Pepper  and  some  Salt. 

N.  B.  If  you  are  a  careful  manager,  you  need  not  always 
purchase  Meat  on  purpose  to  make  thrs,— 4/'Aen  you  dress  a 
large  Dinner ^  you  can  make  Glaze  at  very  small  cost,  by 
taking  care  of  the  trimmings  and  parings  of  the  meat,  game, 
and  poultry  you  use ;  wash  them  well,  put  them  into  a  Stew- 
pan,  cover  them  with  the  liquor  you  hare  boiled  Meat  in, 
and  proceed  as  in  the  above  Receipt;  and  fee  Obs.  on 
(No.  185). 

Mem.  This  Portable  Soup  is  a  most  convenient  article 
in  Cookery — especially  in  Small  Families^  where  it  will 
save  a  gVeat  deal  of  time  and  trouble.  It  is  also  Economieal^ 
for  no  more  will  be  melted  than  is  wanted — so  there  is  no 
waste. 

Xine  pounds  of  Keck  of  Beef  costing  2^.  7\d.  produced 
nine  ounces  of  very  nice  Soup,  the  Bones,  when  boiled, 
weighed  ten  ounces. 

Half  an  Ox  Clieeky  costing  1*.  9c?.  and  weighing  14 j 
pounds,  produced  thirteen  ounces — but  not  so  firm  or  ctear, 
and  far  inferior  in  flavour  to  that  obtained  from  a  Shin  of 
Beef. 

'  J  Sheep*s  Head,  costing  9cf.,  produced  three  ounces  and 
a  half. 


.  BROTHS,  ORAVlBSy  ANt)  SOUPS.  267 

Two  pounds  of  lean  Meat^  from  the  Blade  Bone  of  Beef, 
produced  hardly  an  ounce. 

The  addition  of  an  ounce  of  Crum  Arabic,  and  two  ounces 
oilsinglttsi,  to  four  ounces  of  the  extract  from  a  Leg  of  Beef, 
considerably  diminished  the  consistence  of  the  mass,  with- 
out  adding  to  its  bulk. 

It  has  been  thought  that  the  Portable  Soup  which  is  ma- 
nufactured for  sale — is  partly  made  with  Ox  Heels;  but  the 
experiment  (No.  19S),  proves  this  cannot  be,*  as  an  ounce  of 
the  Jelly  from  Ox  Heel  costs  bd.  For  the  cheapest  method 
of  procuring  a  hard  JeUy,  see  N.  B.  to  (No,  481) ; — nineteen 
Bones,  costing  \\d.  produced  three  ounces: — almost  as 
cheap  as  Salisbury  Glue. 

We  are  informed,  that  there  is  now  for  sale  at  Leipsig — 
som^  Tons  of  Portable  Soup — for  Two  shillings  per  pound. 
During  the  late  war,  there  was  a  great  deal  imported  into 
this  country  from  Russia. 

J  Knuckle  of  Veal,  weighing  4^  pounds,  and  costing 
2s,  Ad  produced  five  ounces.  , 

A  Shin  of  Beef,  weighing  nine  pounds,  and  costing 
1«.  \0\d,  produced  nine  ounces  of  concentrated  Soup,  suffi- 
ciently reduced  to  keepfpr  several  months.  After  the  boil- 
ing, the  bones  in  this  joint  weighed  two  pounds  and  a  quar- 
ter, and  the  Meat  two  pounds  and  a  quarter. 

The  result  of  these  experiments  is,  that  the  product  from 
Legs  and  Shins  of  Beef  was  almost  as  large  in  quantity, 
and  of  much  superior  quality  and  flavour  to  thaft  obtained 
from  any  of  the  other  materials ; — the  flavour  of  the  product 
from  Mutton,  Veal,  Ac.  is  comparatively  insipid. 

As  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  this  rea4y-niade  of  good  quality 
—and  we  could  not  find  any  proper  and  circumstantial  di- 
rections for  making  it,  which,  on  trial,  answered  |he  pur- 
pose,— and  it  is  really  a  great  acquisition  to  the  Army  and 
I»}avy — ^to  Travellers,  Invalids,  &c.— ^the  Editor,  has  bestow- 
ed some  time,  &c.  in  endeavouring  to  learn— and  to  teach 
how<^  it  may  be  prepared  in  the  easiest,  most  economical, 
and  perfect  mariner. 

The  ordinary  selling  price  is  from  \0s.  to  'i2s,  but  you 
may  make  it  according  to  tlie  above  Receipt  for  35.  Gd.  per 

N  2 


,268 


BROTHS,  GRAVI8S,  AND  SOUPS. 


Pound — i.  e.  for  2^d,  per  Ounce,  which  will  make  y6u  a 
•  Pint  of  Broth. 

Those  who  do  not  regard  the  expense,  and  like  the  flavour, 
may  add  the  lean  of  Ham,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  to 
eight  pounds  of  Leg  of  Beef. 

It  may  also  he  flavoured,  hy  adding  to  it,  at  the  time  yoa 
put  the  Broth  into  the  smaller  Stewpan,  Mushroom  Catsup, 
Eshallot  Wine,  Essences  of  Spice  or  Herhs,  &c. ; — we  pre- 
fer it  quite  plain— it  is  then  ready  to  he  converted,  in  an  in- 
stant, into  a  hasin  of  Beef  Tea  for  an  Invalid,  and  any  flavour 
may  be  immediately  communicated  to  it  by  the  Magazine  of 
Taste  (No.  463), 

To  Clarify  Broth  or  Gravy.— (No.  252.*) 

Put  on  the  Broth  in  a  clean  Stewpan,  break  the  white  and 
Shell  of  an  Egaj,  beat  them  together,  put  them  into  the 
Broth,  stir  it  with  a  whisk ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  mi- 
,nutes,  strain  it  through  a  Tammis  or  a  napkin. 

Obs, — A  careful  Cook  will  seldom  have  occasion  to  clarify 
her  Broths,  &c.  if  prepared  according  to  the  directions  given 
in  (No.  20.0.) 


THE 

COOK'S  ORACLE. 

GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

Melted  Butter 

is  so  simple  and  easy  to  prepare,  it  is  a  matter  of  general 
sarprise,  that  what  is  done  so  often  in  every  English  kitchen, 
is  so  seldom  done  right, — ^Foreigners  may  well  say,.  tha|^ 
although  we  have  only  One  Sauce  for  vegetables.  Fish, 
Flesh,  Fowl,  &c. — ^we  hardly  ever  make  that  good. 

It  is  spoiled  nine  times  out  of  ien^  more  from  Idleness^ 
than  from  Ignorance,  and  rather  because  the  Cook  won't 
than  because  she  can^'t  do  it,— which  can  only  be  the  cas« 
when  Housekeepers  will  not  allow  Butter  to  do  it  with.    . 

Good  melted  Butter  cannot  be  made  with  mere  flour 
and  water;  there  must  be  a  fuUand  proper  proportion  of 
BtUter.-^As  it  must  be  always  on  the  Table,  and  is 

The  foundation  of  almost  all  our  English 
SAUCES;  we  have 

Melted  Butter  and  Oysters,       , 

Parsley, 

— ^— — ^  Anchovies, 

• Eggs» 

——————  Shrimps, 

— ; Lobsters, 

Capers,  &c.  &c.  &c. 

I  have  tried  every  way  of  making  it ;  and  I  trust,  at  last, 
that  I  have  written  a  receipt,  which  if  the  Cook  will  care- 
fully observe,  she  will  constantly  succeed  in  giving  satisfiaction. 
In  the  qua,ntities  of  the  various  Sauces  I  have  ordered,  I 
have  had  in  view  the  providing  for  a  Family  of  half  a  dozen 
moderate  people. 


270 


GRAVIl^S  AND  SAUCES. 


Never  pour  Sauce  over  Meat,  or  even  put  it  into  the  dish ; 
—however  well  made,  some  of  the  Company  may  have  an 
antipathy  to  it ; — Tastes  are  as  different  as  Faces  ; — more- 
over, if  it  is  sent  up  separate  in  a  boat,  it  will  keep  hot 
longer,  and  what  is  left  may  be  put  by  for  another  time,  or 
used  for  another  purpose,  '' 

Lastly, — Observe,  that  in  ordering  the  proportions  of 
Meat,  Butter,  Wine,  Spice,  &c.  in  the  following  re- 
ceipts, the  proper  quantity  is  set  down,  and  that  a  less  quan^ 
tity  will  Twt  do; — and  in  some  instances,  those  Palates  which 
have  beien  used  to  the  extreme  of  Piquance,  will  require 
additional  excitement.  ♦ — If  we  have  erred,  it  has  been  on 
the  right  side,  from  an  anxious  wish  to  combine  Economy 
with  Elegance,  and  the  Wholesome  with  the  Toothsome. 
The  following  we  recommend  as  an  elegant  Relish  to  finish 
Soups  and  Sauces. 


ZEST, 

For  ChopSy  Sauces^ 

AKO 

Made  Dishes, 

(No,  255.) 

This  piptanie  quintessence  of  Rag-out  imparts  to  what- 
ever it  touches  a  most  delicioa%  Relifh  ;^it  aw»kens  tbe 
Palate  with  delight,— ^refreshes  Appetiie, — and  instantly 
excites  the  good  humour  of  (erery  man's  master)  tbe 
Stomach. 

Soon  made  Savoury  Sauce. 

Stir  two  drachms  of  ZEST,  into  a  half  pint  of  melted 
butter  (No.  256.)  Let  it  hoil  up  and  strain  it  tbroiigb  a 
sieve; — or  each  Guest  ma;  add  it  at  table  like  Salt,  and 
adjust  the  vibration  of  bis  Palate  to  his  own  Fancy.  • 

Sold  at  BuTLsn*s  Herb-shop;  opposite  Henrietta  Street. 
Covent  Garden. 

It  wilLkeep,  for  any  time,  in  any  Climate. 


*  This  may  be  easily  accomplished  by  the  aid  of  the  Whip  and  Spur, 
that  Students  of  long  stiuading  in  the  School  of  Good  Living  are  gene^ 
rally «o  fond  of  enlivening  their  palate  vriih,  i*  e,  Cayfinns  nod  GarHeh,- 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCBS.  271 

Melted  Butter.  . 

Keep  a  pint  stewpan  *  for  this  purpose  only. 

Cut  two  ounces  of  butter  into  little  bits,  that  it  may  melt 
more  easily,  and  mix  more  readily; — put  it  into  the  stew-- 
pan  with  a  large  tea-spoonful  (t.  e.  about  three  drachms)  of 
Flour,  (some  prefer  Arrow  Root  or  Potatoe  Starch    (No. 
448),  ^d  two  table-spoonsful  of  Milk. 

When  thoroughly  mixed,— add  six  table-spoonsful  of  water  ; 
bold  it  over  the  fire,  and  shake  it  round  every  minute,  (all 
the  while  the  same  way),  till  it  just  begins  to  simmer,  then 
let  it  stand  quietly  and  boil  up,  It  should  be  of  the  thickness 
of  good  cream. 

N»B.  Two  table-spoonsful  of  (No.  439)  instead  of  the 
milk,  will  make  as  good  MushrooiaSauce  as  need  be,  and 
is  a  Superlative  accompaniment  to  either  Fish, — Flesh, — or 
Fowl. 

06*. — This  is  the  best  way  of  preparing  melted  butter ; — 
Milk  mixes  with  the  butter  much  more  easily  and  more  inti- 
mately than  water  alone  can  be  made  to  do.     This  is  of 

>per  thickness   to  be  mixed  at  table  with   Flavouring 
ices.  Anchovy,  Mushroom,  or  Cavice,  &c.     If  made 
merely  to  pour  .over  vegetables,  add  a  little  more  milk  to  it. 

'%  B»  If  the  Butter  Oils,  pift  a  spoonful  of  cold  water 
to  it,  and  stir  it  with  a  spoon, — if  it  is  very  much  oiled,  it 
must  be  poured  backwards  and  forwards  from  the  Stewpan 
to  the  Sauceboat  till  it  is  right  s^in. 

Parslst  (No.261),Chbrvil(No,  264),Cbiert  (\o.289),  Cre^s 
(Ko.  397«),Tarraoon(No.390),  Burnett  (No.  399),  Basil  (No. 
397),  EflflALLOT  (Nos.29d  and  403),  Caper  (Nos.  274  and  295), 
Fehnel  (No.  263),  Liver  (Nos.  287  and  288),  Currt  (No8.348  and 
4i5),  Ego  (No.  267),  Mcsheoom  (No.  403),  Akcbovt  (Nos.  270  u|id 
4'i3),  Raooot  (Nos.  421  and  457),  Shrimp  (No.  ^83),  Bonne 
BoocuB  (No.  341),  Superlative  (No.  429),  and  Tarious  Flavouring 
Bttenoes.    See  from  (No.  396  to  463.) 

(Any  of  tbe  above  Vegetables,  drc.  may  be  minced  verjfjhiify,  and 
fi^Dtto  table  on  a  little  pLate,  and  those  who  like  their  flavour  may  mix 
tbem  with  Melted  Butte^,  <feo.  This  is  a  hint  for  Eeonomifts,  which 
wHlsave  them  many  pounds  of  Butter,  <&c.  See  Mkm.  to  (No.  256  ) 
,  *  A  Silver  Saucepan  \b  infinitely  the  best,— you  may  have  one  big 
CDOugh  to  melt  butter  for  a  moderate  family  for  four  or  five  pounds < 


272  CRAVIES  AND  gAtTC^. 

Mem.  Melted  Butter  made  to  be  mixed  with  ffavonring 
Essences,  Catsups,  &c.  should  be  of  4lie  thioknee  of  light 
Batter,  that  it  may  adhere  to  the  Fish,  &c. 

Thicketiing, — (No.  257.) 

Clarified  butter  is  best  for  this  purpose ;  but  if  yoii  have 
none  ready,  put  some  Fresh  Butter  into  a  stewpan  over  a 
slow  clear  fire ; — when  it  is  melted,  add  fine  Flour  sufficient 
to  make  it  the  thickness  of  paste ; — stir  it  well  together  with 
a  wooden  spoon  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  till  it  is  quite 
smooth,  and  the  colour  of  a  Guinea :  this  ouist  be  done  very 
gradually  and  patiently,  if  you  put  it  over  too  fierce  a  fire,  to 
hurry  it,  it  will  become  bitter  and  empyreumatic ;  poor  it 
into  an  earthen  pan,  and  keep  it  for  use.  It  will  keep  good 
a  fortnight  in  Summer,  and  longer  in  Winter. 

A  large  spoonful  will  generally  be  enough  to  thickea  a 
Quart  of  Gravy. 

Obs, — This,  in  the  French  kitchen,  is  called  Rowc.  Be 
particularly  attentive  in  making  of  it ;  if  it  gets  any  >iinit 
smell  or  taste,  it  will  spoil  every  thing  it  is  put  into,  see  Obt. 
to  (No,  322).  When  cold,  it  should  be  thick  enough  to  est 
out  with  a  knife,  like  a  solid  paste. 

It  is  a  very  essential  article  in  the  kitchen,  and  is  the 
basis  of  consistency  in  most  made  dishes,  soup£^  sauces,  and 
ragouts : — ^if  the  Gravies,  &c.  are  too  (hin,  add  this  Thick- 
ening, more  or  less,  according  to  the  consistence  you  would 
wish  them  to  have. 

Mem.  In  making  Thickening, — the  less  Butter,  and  the 
more  Flour  jrou  use  the  better ; — ^they  must  be  thorough)^ 
worked  together,  and  the  brotb,  or  soup,  &c.  you  put  them 
to,  added  by  degrees ; — take  especial  care  to  incorporate  them 
well  together,  or  your  sauces,  &c.  will  taste  floury,  and  have 
a  disgusting,  greasy  appearance ; — ^therefore  after  you  have 
thickened  your  sauce,  add  to  it  some  broth,  or  warm  water, 
in  the  proportion  of  two  table-spoonsful  to  a  pint,  and  set  it 
by  the  side  of  the  fire,'to  raise  any  fat,  &c.  that  is  not  thoroi^y 
incorporated  with  the  gravy,  which  you  must  carefully  remove 
as  it  comes  to  the  top.  This  is  called  cleansing,  or  finisbii^ 
the  sauce. 


ailAVIfiS  AND  SAUCES.  373- 

^  *i^*  Half  an  ounce  of  Butter^  and  a  table-spoonffii  of 
FtouVf  are  about  the  proportion  for  a  pint  of  Sauce,  to  fnak0 
ii  tx9  thick  as  Cream. 

TJ.  B.  The  jFa«  Skimmings  off  the  top  of  the  Broth  Pot, 
are  sometimes  substituted  for  Butter,  see  (No.  240),— spme 
Cooks  merely  thicken  th^ir  Soups  and  Sauces  with  Flour y9s 
we  have  directed  in  (No.  245),  or  Potatoe  Farina  {No.  448). 

Clarified  Butter.^(No.  259.) 

Put  the  Butter  in  a  nice  clean  stewpan,  over  a  very  clear 
sjow  fire,  watch  it,  and  when  it  is  melted  carefully,  skim  off  the 
buttermilk,  &c.  which  will  swim  on  the  top  ;•— let  il  stand  a 
minute  or  two,  for  the  impurities  to  sink  to  the  bottom,-— 
then  pour  the  clear  butter  through  a  sieve,  into  a  clean 
basin,  leaving  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan. 

Obs» — ^Butter  thus  purified,  will  be  as  sweet  as  Marrow, — 
a  very  useful  covering  for  Potted  Meats,  &c.  and  for  frying 
Fish,  equal  to  the  finest  Florence  oil,  for  which  purpose  it  is 
commonly  used  by  Catholics,  and  those  whose  religious  te- 
nets will  not  allow  them  to  eat  viands  fried  in  animal  oil. 

Burnt  Btrficr.— (No.  260.) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  into  a  small  fryingpan, 
when  it  becomes  a  dark  brown  colour,  add  to  it  a  table- 
spodnfiil  and  a  half  of  good  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt. 

06^.— TMs  is  used  as  sauce  for  boiled  Fish,  or  poached 
Eggs. 

Otferf  Bwttcr.— (No.  260*.) 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  Biitter  into  a  saucepan,  set  it  at  a 
(fistance  from  the  fire  so  that  it  may  melt  gradually,  till  it 
comes  to  an  Oil,-^and  pour  it  off  quietly  from  the  dregs. 

Obs. — ^This  will  supply  the  place  of  Olive  Oil,  and  by 
aOme»  is  preferred  to  it,  either  for  Salads,  or  Frying. 

Parsley  and  JButfcr.— (No.  261.) 

•  Wash  some  Parsley  very  clean,  and  pick  it  carefiilfy,  leaf 
bjrleaf ;  put  a  tea^poonful  of  salt  into  tsM  a  pint  of  Jboilioig. 

N  5 


274u  QRAVIS9  AND  SAUCXS^^ 

ivater»  boil  the  Parsley  about  ten  minuttSy  drain  it  od  a 
vieve,  mince  it  quite  fine,  and  then  bruise  it  to  a  pulp. 

The  delicacy  and  excellence  of  this  elegant  and  innocent 
Relish,  depends  upon  the  Parsley  being  mincad  very  fine ; 
put  it  into  a  sauce-boat,  and  mix  with  it,  by  degrees,  about 
half  a  pint  of  good  melted  butter  (No.  256),  only  do  not 
put  so  much  flour  to  it,  as  the  Parsley  will  add  to  its  thick- 
ness,— ^never  pour  Parsley  and  Butter  over  boiled  things,  but 
send  it  up  in  a  Boat. 

Obs. — In  French  Cookery  Books,  this  is  called  **  JMeUed 
JEtutteTy  English  Fashwiiy'*  and,  with  the  addition  of  a  slice 
of  lemour  cut  into  dice,  a  little  Allspice  and  Vinegar,  **  Z>u(c& 
Sauce:' 

N.  B.  To  PRESERVE  Parsley  through  the  winter, — ^in 
May,  June,  or  July,  take  fine  fresh  gathered  sprigs,  pick  and 
wash  them  clean,  set  on  a  stewpan  half  full  of  water,  put  a 
little  salt  in  it,,  boil  and  skim  it  clean,  and  then  put  in  the 
Parsley  and  let  it  boil  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  take  it 
out,  and  lay  it  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  that  it  n^ay  be  dried 
as  quick  as  possible, — ^put  it  by  in  a  Tin  Box,  and  keep  it  in 
a  dry  place, — when  you  want  it,  lay  it  in  a  Basin,  and  cover 
it  with  warm  water  a  few  minutes  before  you  use  it. 

Crooseherry  Sauce, — (No,  263.) 

Top  and  tail  them  close,  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  ^and  scakl 
half  a  pint  of  ^reen  Gooseberries,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve, 
tod  put  them  mto  half  a  pint  of  melted  Butter  (No.  256.) 

i^me  add  grated  Ginger  and  Lemon  Peel,  and  the 
French,  minced  Fennel,-:-others  send  up  the  Gooseberries 
whole  or  mashed,  without  any  Butter,  &c. 

Chervil, — ^Basil, — Tarragon, — Burnet, — Cress,— 

and  Butter. — (No.  264.) 

This  is  the  first  time  that  Chervil,  which  has  so  long  been 
a  favourite  with  the  sagacious  French  Cook,  has  been  intro- 
duced into  an  English  book. — Its  flavour  is  a  strong  concen- 
tration of  the  combined  taste  of  Parsley  and  Fennel,,  hMtm<)re 
airoinaiic .  and  agreeable  than  dther;  and  is  an  ej^cdlriA 


ORAVISS  ANQ  8AXJCE9.  275 

.sauce  with  boiled  Poultry  or  Fish.    Prepare  it,  &C.  as  we 
have  directed  for  Parsley  and  Butter  (No.  261 .) 

Fennel  and  Butter. for  Mackarely  dfc, — (No.  265.) 

Is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  just  described 
in  {No.  261.) 

Obs. — For  Mackarel  sauce,  or.  boiled  Soles,  &c. — some 
people  take  equal  parts  of  Fennel  and  Parsley  t — others  adct 
.  a  «prig  of  Mint,  or  a  couple  of  young  Onions  minced  very 
fine. 

Mackarel  Roe  5a«ce.— (No.  266.) 

Boil  the  Roes  of  Mackarel,  (soft  roes  are  best,)  bruise 
them  with  a  spoon  with  the  yolk  of  an  Egg,  beat  up  with  a 
very  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  Fennel  and  Parsley 
boiled  and  chopped  very  fine,  mixed  with  almost  half  a  pint 
of  thin  melted  butter,  see  (No.  256.) 

'Mushroom  catsup,  Walnut  pickle,  or  Soy,  maybe  added. . 

£ggSauce.-^(So.267.) 

This  agreeable  accompaniment  to  roasted  Poultry^  or 
salted  Fishy — is  made  by  putting  three  Eggs  into  boiling 
water,  and  boiling  them  for  about  twelve  minutes,  when 
they  will  be  hard,  put  them  into  cold  water  till  you  want 
them.-»— This  will  make  the  Yolks  firmer,  and  prevent  their 
surface  turning  blacky  and  you  can  cut  them  much  neater, — use 
only  two  of  the  Whitest  cut  the  Whites  into  small  dice, — 
the  Yolks,  into  bits  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square, — ^put 
'  them  into  a  Sauceboat,  pour  to  them  half  a  pint  of  melted 
.Butter,  and  stir  thejc  t<^ether. 

dbs, — ^The  Melted  Butter  for  Egg  Sauce  need  not  be  made 
quite  so  thick  as  (No.  256^)  If  you  are  for  Superlative  Egg 
SiMce,  pound  the  Yolks  of  a  Couple  of  Eggs,  and  rub  them 
with  the  melted  butter  to  thicken  it. 

N.  B.  Some  Cooks  garnish  Salt  Fish  with  hard  boiled 
e^  cat  in  half. 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce.— (So.  269.) 

A  glass  of  Sherry,  half  a  glass  x)f  Brandy,  (or  **  Cherry- 
BbipiGe/'}  of  Cura^oa  (No.  474),  or  Essence  ef  Punch 
(No.  471  and  479),  and  two^tea-spoousfol  of.ixMinded  lump 


276  QRAVI89  AND  SAtnSSd. 

•agar,  (a  very  little  grated  Lemon  Peel  is  sometimes  addedj* 
in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Thick  Melted  butter :  grate  Nutinejr 
on  the  top. 
See  Pudding  Oiiwp.— (No.  446.) 

Anchxmf  *Saucc.— (No.  270.) 

Pound  three  Anchovies  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  bit  of 
Butter,  rub  it  through  a  double  Hair  sieve,  with  the  beck  of 
a  wooden  spoon,  and  stir  it  into  almost  half  a  pint  of  Melted 
butter  (No.  256) ;  or  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  Essence  of 
Anchovy  (No.  433.) — To  the  above,  many  cooks  add  Leknon- 
juice  and  Cayenne. 

Ofi^.^Foreigners  make  this  sauce  with  good  Brown  SSauoe 
(No.  329),  or  White  Sauce  (No.  364),  instead  of  melted 
Butter, — ^add  to  it  Catsup, — Soy,^and  some  of  their  fla- 
voured Vinegars,  as  Elder  or  Tarragon. — ^Pepper  and  fine 
Spice, — sweet  herbs, — Capers, — Eshallots, — &c.  They 
serve  it  with  most  Roasted  Meats. 

N.  B.  Keep  your  Anchovies  well  covered,  first  tie  down 
your  Jar  with  Bladder  moistened  with  vinegar,  and  then 
wiped  dry,  tie  Leather  over  that:  when  you  open  a  Jar, 
moisten  the  bladder,  and  it  will  come  off  easily, — ^as  soon  as 
■you  have  taken  out  the  Fish,  replace  the  coverings,  the  air 
soon  rusts  and  spoils  Anchovies.    See  (No.  433,  &c.) 

Garlick  i&Mcc.— (No.  272.) 

Pound  two  cloves  of  Garlick  with  a  piece  of  fresh  Batter 
about  as  big  as  a  Nutmeg:  rub  it  through  a  double  bur 
isieve,  and  stir  it  into  half  a.  pint  of  melted  butter,  or  Beef 
Gravy;  or  make  it  with  Garlick  Vinegar  (No.  400),  (Nos. 
401  and  402.) 

Lemon  Sauce, — (No.  273.) 

Pare  a  Lemota,  and  cut  it  into  slices  twice  as  thidt  as  a 
half-crown  piece ;  divide  these  into  Dice,  and  put  tbem  hito 
:»  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Melted  Batter  (No.  256.) 

Obs, — Some  Cooks  mince  a  bit  of  the  Lemon  Peel  (pared 
very  thin)  veryfine^  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Cktper  Sauoe.—(^o.  274.)— See  also  (No.  295,) 

,     To  make  a  Quarter  Pint, — ^take  a  table-spoonful  of  Capei*, 
.  aad  two  tea^poonaM  of  Vinegarr 


The  pre$ent  fashion  of  cutting  Ofpers^'^s  to  mmoe  one 
third  of  them  very  fine,  and  divide  the  others  in  half;  ptrt 
them  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  Butter,  or  good 
thickened  Gravy  (No.  329),  stir  them  the  same  way  as  you 
did  the  melted  batter,  or  it  will  oil. 

.  0&^.— Some  boil,  and  mince  fine  a  few  leaves  of  Parsley, 
or  Chersil,  or  Tarragon,  and  add  these  to  the  saoce;— • 
ethers  the  juice  of  half  a  Seville  Orange,  or  Lemon. 

Mem, — ^Keep  the  Caper  bottle  very  closely  corked,  and  do 
not  ttee  any  of  the  Caper  liquor : — ^if  the  Capers  are  not  well 
covered  with  it,  they  will  immediately  spoil,  and  it  is  an  e%^ 
cellent  ingredient  in  Hashes,  &c.  The  Dutch  use  it  as  a  Fish 
Saoce,  mixing  it  with  melted  b;utter. 

Jfoc^  Caper  Sauce.— (No.  275  or  295.) 

Cut  some  pickled  Green  Pease,-^French  Beans, — Gher- 
kins,— or  Nasturtiums,  into  bits  the  size  of  Capers ;  put 
them  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  with  two  tea-spoonfttul. 
of  Lemon  juice,  or  nice  Vinegar. 

Oyster  Sawcc.— (No.  278.) 

Choose  Plump  and  Juicy  Natives  for  this  purpose  ;— 
DmH  take  them  out  of  their  Shell  till  you  put  them  into  the 
Steujpan,  see  06*.  to  (No.  181.) 

To  make  good  Oyster  Sauce  for  half  a  dozen  hearty  Fish^ 
EaterSi  you  cannot  have  less  than  three  or  four  dozen  Oysters* 
o^^Sare  their  liquor,  strain  it,  and  put  it  and  them  into  a  stew- 
pan;  as  soon  as  they  boil,  and  the  fish  plump,  tsdae  them  off 
the  Fire,  and  pour  the*  contents  of  the  stewpan^into  a  sieve 
over  a  clean  basin,  wash  the  stewpan  out  with  hot  water,  and 
pot  into  it  the 'Strained  liquor,  with  about  an  equal  quantity 
of  Milk,  and  about  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  Butter,  with 
nhich  ydu  have  wellxubbed  alafge.table»spoonful  of  Flour, 
"•-^ve  it  a  boil  up,  and  pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin, 
(tli^t  the  Sauce  may  be  quite  smooth,)  and  then  back'  9gam 
into  the  8aucepan,^*<now  shave  the  Oysters,  and  (if  you  have 
the  honour  of  making  sauce  for  "  a  Committee  of  Taste^^* 
lake  away  the  grisily  part  also,)  put  in  only  the  soft  part  of 
the  ^sterSy  if  they  are  very  large  cut  them  in  half,  «id  set 


S7S  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

them  by  thf  fire  to  keep  hot,  *<  if  Aey  boil  after,  they  will 
become  hard." 

If  you  have  not  Liquor  enough,  add  a  little  Melted  Butter, 
or  Cream,  see  (No.  388,)  or  Milk  beat  up  with  the  yolk  of 
an  Egor^  (this  must  not  be  put  in  till  the  sauce  is  done.)  Some 
barbarous  Cooks  add  Pepper, — or  Mace, — the  juice  or  peel 
of  a  Lemon, — Horseradish,-^£ssence  of  Anchovy, — Cayenne^ 
&c. ; — Plain  Saucts  are  only  to  taste  of  the  Ingredient  from 
which  they  derive  their  name, 

Obs, — It  will  very  much  heighten  the  flayour  of  this  Sauce, 
to  pound  the  soft  part  of  half  a  dozen  (unboiled)  Oysters, 
rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  sauce: 
— ^this  Essence  of  OystebI  (and  for  some  palates  a  few 
grains  of  Cayenne)  is  the  only  addition  we  recommend.  See 
(No.  441.) 

Preserved  Oysters.^i^o.  2S0.) 

Open  the  Oysters  carefully,  so  as  not  to  cut  them  except 
in  dividing  the  gristle  which  attaches  the  shells, — ^put  them 
into  a  Mortar,  and  when  you  have  got  as  many  as  you  can 
conveniently  pound  at  once,  add  about  two  drachms  of  Salt 
to  a  dozen  Oysters, — ^pound  them  and  rub  them  through  the 
back  of  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  them  into  a  mortar  s^ain,  with 
as  much  Flour  (which  has  been  previously  thorbtighly  dried) 
as  will  make  them  into  a  paste,  roll  it  out  several  tioies,  and 
lastly,  flour  it  and  roll  it  out  the  thickness  of  a  half  crown, 
and  divide  it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  lay  them  i&a 
Dutch  oven,  where  they  will  dry  so  gently  as  not  to  get  burned, 
r-tum  them  every  half  hour,  and  when  they  b^in  to  dry, 
crumble  them, — ^they  will  take  about  four  hours  to  dry,— - 
then  pound  them  fine,— -sift  them  and  put  them  into  bottki, 
and  seal  them  over. 

N.B.  Three  dozen  of  Natives  required  71  omieesof 
dried  Flour  to  make  them  into  a  paste,  which  then  weighed 
11  ounces, — when  dried  andpowaeredj  61  ounces. 
.  To  make  half  a  pint  of  Sauce,  put  one  ounce  of  Butter  into 
a  stewpan,  with  tnree  drachms  of  Oyster  powder,  and  sii 
iable-spoonsful  of  milk ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  ittill  it  bofls, 
and  season  it  with  salt  \     . 


QRAVISS  AND  SAUCES.  279 

This  Powder,  if  made  with  Plump  Juicy  Natives,  will 
abound  with  the  flavour  of  the  Fish,  and  if  closely  corked, 
and  kept  in  a  dry  place,  will  remain  good  for  some  time* 

Obs, — This  Extract,  is  a  welcome  succedaneum  while 
Oysters  are  out  of  season,  and  in  such  inland  parts  as  ^Idom 
have  any,  is  a  valuable  addition  to  the  list  of  Fish  sauces  :  it 
is  equally  good  with  boiled  Fowl,  or  Rump  Steak, — and- 
sprinkled  on  Bread  and  Butter  makes  a  very  good  Sandwich, 
and  is  especially  worthy  the  notice  of  Countiy  Housekeepers- 
— and  as  a  Store  Sauce  for  the  Army  and  Navy.^  See  An^ 
chovy  Powder  (No.  435.) 

Shrimp  iSfaitwJc.— (No.  283.) 

Shell  a  Pint  of  Shrimps,  pick  them  clean,  wash  them  and 
put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  good  Melted  Butter.     A  Pint  of 
unshelled  Shrimps  is  about  enough  for  Four  Persons.   <. 

Obs. — Some  stew  the  Heads  and  shells  of  the  Shrimps, 
(with  or.  without  a  blade  of  bruised  Mace,)  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  strain  off  the  liquor  to  melt  the  butter  with,  and 
add  a  little  Lemon  juice, — Cayenne, — and  Essence  of  An-. 
Qhovy,— or  Soy, — fcavice,  &c. ; — but  the  Flavour  of  the 
Shrimp  is  so  delicate^  it  will  be  overcome  by  any  of  such, 
additions. 

Mem. — If  your  Shrimps  are  not  quite  fresh  they  will  eat 
tough  and  thready  as  other  St{de  Fish  do.*— See  Obs*  to  (No. 
140.) 

Lobster  Sauce. — (No.  284.) 

Choose  a  fine  spawny  Hen  Lobster,*  be  sure  it  is  fresh, 
so  get  a  live  one  ii  you  can,  (one  of  my  culinary  predecessors 
says,  "  let  it  be  heavy  and  lively j^*)  and  boil  it  as  (No.  176,) 
pick  out  the  Spawn  and  the  Red  Coral  into  a  mortar,  addito 


-•4- 


*  You. must  have  a  Heo  Lobster>  on  account  of  the  Live  Sfptiven'.-r- 
soooe  FishaiODgers  have  a  cruel  custom  of  tearing  this  from  the  iPisfa, 
before  tliey  are  boiled ; — lift  up  the  tail  of  the  Lobster,  and  see  that  it 
Iui9  uo^bpea  robbed. of  hs  Eggs  \7-  the  goodnets  (^your  Saucg  de*- 
pends  Vfon  iU  having  a  full  share  iif  the  Spawn  in  it,  to  which  it  owefi> 
ijot  iqerely  its  brillaut  Red  Colour,  but  the  finest  part  of  its  Flavour. 


tSO  49lUVnB  AND  SAlfCCSl 

it  half  an  dance  of  Butter,  pound  it  quite  smootli,  and  rub  it 
tbroi^h  a  hair  sieve  with  the  back, of  a  wooden  spoon ;  att 
the  meat  of  the  Lobster  into  smaU  squares,  or  pull  it  to  pieots 
with  a  fork,  put  the  pounded  Spawn  into  as  much  melted 
Butter  J(No.  256)  as  you  think  will  do,  and  stir  it  together  tUl 
it  is  thoroughly  mixed, — ^now  put  to  it  the  tneat  of  the  Lob* 
8ter,  and  warm  it  on  the  fire,  take  care  it  does  not  boil,  which 
idiU  spoil  its  complexiony  and  its  briliiant  Red  colour  wiU  m- 
mediately  fade* 

'  The  above  is  a  very  easy  and  excellent  manner  of  makii^ 
this  Sauce. 

Some  use  strong  Beef  or  Veal  Gravy  instead  of  melted 
Butter,  adding  Anchovy,  Cayenne,  Catsup,  Cavice,  Lemon 
juice,  or  pickle,  or  Wine,  &c. 

Obs,-—Save  a  little  of  the  inside  Red  Cored  Spawns  and  rub 
it  through  a  sieve  (without  butter :) — it  is  a  very  ornamental 
garnish  to  sprinkle  over  Fish ;  and  if  the  skin  is  broken, 
(which  win  sometimes  happen  to  the  most  careful  Cook, 
when  there  is  a  large  dinner  to  dress,  and  many  other  thii^ 
to  attend  to,)  you  will  find  it  a  convenient  and  elegant  VeU, 
to  conceal  your  misfortune  from  the  prying  eyes  of  piscivor- 
ous Gourmands, 

N.  B.  Various  methods  have  been  tried  to  freserts  Lob- 
sters, see  (No.  178,)  and  Lobster  Spawn,  for  a  Store  Sanee. 
The.  Live  Spawn  may  be  kept  some  time  in  strong  Salt  and- 
Water — or  in  an  Ice-house. 

The  following  process  might,  perhaps,  preserve  it  longer : 
— rPut  it  into  a  Saucepan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  Salt  in  it,  and  let  it  boil  quick  for  five  minutes ;  then 
drain  it  on  a  hair  sieve,  spread  it  out  thin  on  a  plate,  and  set 
it  in  a  Dutch  Oven  till  it  is  thoroughly  dried, — grind  it  in  a 
dean  mill,  and  pack  it  Closely  in  well'Stopped  Bottles.  See 
alsd  Potted  Lobsters^  (No.  178.) 

Sauce  for  Lobster,  ^c— (No.  285.)— See  also  (Nos.  372.) 

Bruise  the  yolks  of  two  bard  boiled  £^  with  the  bac^  of 
a  wooden  spoon,  or  rather  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a 
tea-4poonful  of  water,  and  the  soft  inside  add  the  spawn  of 
the  lobster,  rub  them  quite  smooth,  with  a  tea-spoonfiil  of 


6RAVIB8  AND  SAtlCCS.  281 

made  Mustard,  twotable^spooiisful  of  Salad  Oil,  and  five  of 
Vinegar ;  season  it  with  a  very  little  Cayenne  pepper  and 
some  salt. 

Qbs.— To  this  Elder  or  Tarragon  Vinegar  (No.  396,)  or 
Anchovy  Essence  (No.  433,)  is  occasionally  added, 

Liv^  and  Parslfy  Sauce,— (No.  287.)— or  Liver  and 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Wash  the  Liver  (it  must  be  perfectly  fresh)  of  a  Fowl  or 
Habbit,  and  boil  it  five  minutes  in  five  table-spoonsful  of 
water  ;— chop  it  fine ;  or  pound  or  bruise  it  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve: 
'^-wash  about  one-third  the  bulk  of  Parsley  leaves,  put  them 
on  to  boil  in  a  little  boiling  water,  with  a  tea- spoonful  pf  salt 
in  it;  lay  it  on  a  hair  si^ve  to  drain,  and  mince  it  very  fine; 
mix  it  with  the  liver,  and  put  it  intq  a  quarter  pint  pf  meltei 
butter,  and  warm  it  up ;— ^do  not  let  it  boil. 

Or, 

To  make  Lemon  and  Liver  Sauce. 

Pare  ofi*  the  rind  of  a  Lemon,  or  of  a  Seville  Orange,  as 
thin  as  possible,  so  as  not  to  cut  off  any  of  the  White  with 
it ; — ^now  cut  off  aU  the  White,  and  cut  the  Lemon  into  slices, 
about  as  thick  as  a  couple  of  half-crowns ;  pick  out  the  pips* 
and  divide  the  slices  into  small  squares :  add  these,  and  a 
little  of  the  peel  minced  very  fine  to  the  Liver,  prepared  as 
directed  above,  and  put  them  into  the  melted  Butter,  ^d 
.warm  them  together, — ^but  do  not  let  them  boil. 

N.  B.  The  Poulterers  can  always  let  you  have  yrc*A  Livefs 
— if  that  of  the  Fowl  or  Rabbit  is  not  good,  or  not  large 
enough  to  make  as  much  Sauce  as  you  wish. 

Ohs. — Some  Cooks,  instead  of  pounding,-— mince  the  Liver 
very  fine  (with  half  as  much  Bacon,)'and  leave  out  the  Pars- 
ley,—others  add  the  juibe  of  half  a  Lemon,  and  some  of  the 
Peel  grated,— or  a  tea-spoonful  of  Tarragon  or  Chili  Vine- 
gar, a  table-spoonful  of  White  Wine,  or  a  little  beaten  Mace 
or  Nutmeg,  or  Allspice : — if  you  wish  it  a  little  more  lively 
on  the  palate,  pound  a  Shallot,  or  a  few  leaves  of  Tarragon 
or  Basil,  with  Anchovy  or  Catsup,  or  Cayenne. 


682  XSIUVJES  AND  OAUCES. 

Liver  Sauce  for  Fish.— (^0.  2lS:j 

Boil  the  Liver  of  the  Fish,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with 
a  little  flour,  stir  it  into  some  Broth,  or  some  of  the  liquor  the 
^sh  was  boiled  in^  or  melted  Butter,  Parsley,  and  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne, — ^a  little  l^ssence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433,)  or  Soy, 
or  Catsup  (No.  4^9 ;) — give  it  aboil  up,  and  rub  it  throi^  a 
sieve : — ^you  may  add  a  little  Lemon  jfuice— or  LenK)n  cut 
in  dice. 

Celery  Sauce,  FAtte.— (No.  289.) 

Pick  and  wash  two  heads  of  nice  White  Celery,  cut  it  into 
'pieces  about  an  inch  long ;  stew  it  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  till  the  Celefy  is  tender  ;•  roll  an  ounce 
of  butter  with  a  tablenspoonful  of  flour ;  add  this  to  half  t 
•pint  of  cream,  and  give  it  a  boil  up. 

N.  B.  See  (No.  409.) 

■ 

Celery  Sauce^  Pur6e,foT  boiled  Turkey,  Veal,  Fowls j  Spc. 

(No.  290.) 

Cut  small  half  a  dozen  heads  of  nice  White  Celery  that  is 

quite  dean,  and  two  Onions  sliced;  put  in  a  two-quart  Stew* 

'pan,  with  a  small  lump  of  Butter;  sweat  them  over  a  slow 

fire  till  quite  tender,  then  put  in  two  spoonsful  of  flour,  batf 

'  a  pint  of  water  (or  Beef  or  Veal  Broth,)  salt  and  pepper,  aiu 

'a  little  cream  or  milk  ;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  pass 

through  a  fine  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

If  you  wish  for  Celery  sauce,  when  Celery  is  not  in  sea- 
^Son,  a  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  Celery-seedy  or  a  little  Essence 
of  Celery  (No.  409,)  will  impregnate  half  a  pint  of  sauct 
'  witli  a  sufficient  portion  of  the  flavour  of  the  Vegetable. 
Bee  Obs.  to  (No.  214.) 

Green,  or  Sorrel  /Sbucc— (No.  291.) 

Wash  and  dean  a  large  Fonnet  of  Sorrel,  put  it  into  a 

'  iStewpan  that  will  just  hold  it,  with  a  bit  of  Butter  the  sixe  of 

an  Egg,  cover  it  close^  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of 

'■         IT-     ■■        .■■■■■  ..I  t^ 

V 

*  So  much  depends  upon  the  age  of  the  Celery,  we  caDDot  gixe  aij 
precise  time  for  this.  Young  fresh-gathered  Celery  will  be  enei^  in 
ibree  quarters  of  an  hour ;  old  wiU  sometimes  take  twice  as  long. 


GRAVIES  AND  SSAUCES*  283 

ad  hour,  pass  the  Sorrel  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon 
through  a  hair  sieve,  season  with  Pepper,  Salt,  and  a  small 
pbch  of  powdered  Sugar,  make  it  hot,  and  serve  up  under 
Lamb,  Veal,  Sweetbreads,  &c.  &c«-  Cayenne,  Nutmeg»  and 
Lemon  Juice,  are  sometimes  added. 

TwuUayor  Love-apple  Sauce.-'(^o.  292.)— Sec  afao  (No.  443.) 

Have  twelve  or  fifteen  Tomatas,  ripe  and  red ;  take  off  the 
stalk;  cut  them  in  half;  squeeze  them  just  enough  to  get  all 
the  water  and  seeds  out ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a, 
Caps'cum,  and  two  or  three  table-spoonsfiil  of  Beef  Gravy ; 
wtthem  on  a  slow  stove  for  an  hour,  or  till  properly  melted ; 
then  rub  them  through  atammis  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  a 
Uttle  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  simmer  together  a 
few  minutes. 

N.  B.  To  the  above  the  French  Cook  adds  an  Onion  or 
Esh^lot,  a  Clove  or  two,  or  a  little  Tarragon  Vinegar. 

Mock  Tcmata  Saitcc.— (No.  293.) 

The  only  difference  between  this,  and  genuine  Love-apple 
Sauce,  is  the  substituting  the  pulp  of  Apple  for  that  of  To- 
mata,  colouring  it  with  Turmeric,  and  communicating  an  aeid 
Savour  to  it  by  vinegar. 

ShaUot  Sauce— (No.  294.) 

Take  four  Shallots,  and  make  it  in  the  same  manner  as  Gar-« 
lick  Sauce  (No.  272.) 

Qry 

You  may  make  this  sauce  more  extemporaneously,  by 
patting  two  table-spoonsful  of  Shallot  Wine  (No.  403,)  and 
a  sprinkling  of  Pepper  and  Salt,  into  (almost)  half  a  pint  of 
thick  melted  Butter. 

06«. — ^This  is  an  excellent  Sauce  for  Chops,  or  Steaks, — » 
^ny  are  very  fond  of  it  with  roasted  or  Boiled  Meat,  Poul* 
^,&c. 

ShaUot  Sauce  for  Boiled  Mutton, — (No.  295.) 
This  is  a  very  frequent  and  satisfactory  substitute  for  "  Caper 


984  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCSS. 

Mince  four  Shallots  very  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  smaB 
saucepan,  with  almost  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  MuttoQ 
was  boiled  in  :  let  them  boil  up  for  five  minutes ; — ^then  ptt 
in  «  table^'spoonful  of  Vinegar,  a  quarter  tea-spoonful  of  Pep- 
per, a  little  Salt,  and  a  bit  of  Butter  (as  big  as  a  walnut) 
^Ued  in  flour ;  shake  together^  till  it  boils*  See  (No.  402,^ 
lEshaUot  Wine, 

Obs, — We  like  a  little  Lemon  PceZ  with  Shallot ; — the  Eaxt" 
Go-At  of  the  latter  is  much  ameliorated  by  the  delicate  Airom 
6f  the  farmer. 

Some  Cooks  add  a  little  finely  chopped  Parsley. 

Yotmy  Onion  jSJauce.— (No.  296.) 

•  Peel  a  pint  of  Button  Onions,  and  put  them  in  water  till 
you  want  to  put  them  on  to  boil ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water  ;  let  them  boil  till  tender ;  they  ' 
will  take  (according  to  their  size  and  age)  from  half  an  hour 
to  an  hour.  You  may  put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  (No.  307.) 
See  also  (No.  137.) 

Onion  Sauce. — (No.  297.) 

^ose  who  like  the  full  flavour  of  Onions^  only  cut  off  the 
strings  and  tops  (without  peeling  off  any  of  the  sktns^)  pot 
them  into  salt  and  ^ter,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour ;  then 
wash  them,  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  plenty  of  water,  and 
1)011  them  till  they  are  tender  :  now  skin  them,  pass  them 
through  a  cullender,  and  mix  a  little  melted  Butter  inth 
them. 

N.  B.  Some  mix  the  pulp  of  Apples,  or  Turnips,  with  the 
Onions^ — others  add  Mustard  to  them. 

White  Onion  Sauce.— {No.  298.) 

The  following  is  a  more  mild  and  delicate  ♦  preparation  :— 
Take  half  jt  dozen  of  the  largest  and  whitest  Onions,  (the 
Spani^  are  the  mildest,  but  these  can  only  be  had  from  Au- 
gust to  December,)  peel  them  and  cut  them  in  half,  and  lay 


*  If  you  wisb  to  have  tbem  verff.  mUd,  cut  them  in  quarteis,  boil  _ 
^orftve  minutes  io  plenty  of  water^  and  then  drain  them^  and  cook  then 
in  fresh  water. 


I 


GRAVISS  AND  «AUCES»  289 

them  in  a  pan  of  spring  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
then  boil  k>f  a  quarter  of  an  hour — and  then,  if  you  wish 
them  to  taste  very  mild — pour  off  that  water,  and  cover 
them  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  till  they 
are  tender,  which  will  sometimes  take  three  quarters  of  an 
liour  longer^-— drain  them  well  on  a  hair  sieve,  lay  them  on 
the  chopping-board  and  chop  and  bruise  them,  put  them 
into  a  clean  saucepan,  with  some  Butter  and  Flour,  half  a 
tea*spoonful  of  salt,  and  some  Cream,  or  good  milk  ;^  stir  it 
till  it  boils ;  then  rub  the  whole  through  a  tammy  or  sieve, 
adding  cream  or  milk,  to  make  it  the  consistence  you  wish. 
Obs, — ^This  is  the  usual  sauce  for  boiled  Rabbits,— 
Mutton, — or  Tripe. — ^There  must  be  plenty  of  it;  the 
i^ual  expression  signifies  as  much,  for  we  say,  smother 
them  with  it. 

Brown  Onioh  Sauces^  or  OnioH  Gravy, — (No.  299.) 

Peel  and  slice  the  Onions  (some  put  in  an  equal  quantity 
of  Cucumber  or  Celery)  into  a  quart  stewpan,  with  an 
ounce  of  Butter;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  turn  the  Onion 
about  till  it  is  very  lightly  browned ;  now  gradually  stir  in 
half  an  ounce  of  Hour ;  add  a  little  broth,  and  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes,  add  a  table-spoonful  of 
Claret,  or  Port  wine,  and  same  of  Mushroom  Catsup, — (yov 
may  sharpen  it  with  a  little  Lemon  Juice  or  Vinegar) — and 
rub  it  through  a  tammy  or  fine  sieve. 

Curry  Powder  (No.  348),  will  convert  this  into  ex- 
€eUent  Curry  Sauce. 

N.B.  If  this  Sauce  is  for  Steaks,  shred  an  ounce  olT 
Onions,  fry  them  a  nice  brown,  and  put  them  to  the  sauce 
you  have  rubbed  througl^  a  tammy ;— or  some  very  small 
round  young  silver  Button  Onions,  see  (No.  296),  peeled 
and  boiled  tender,  and  put  in  whole  when  your  sauce  if 
done,  will  be  an  acceptable  addition* 

Obs, — If  you  have  no  Broth,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  water, 
and  see  (No.  252) ;— just  before  you  give  it  the  last  boil  up, 
add  to  it  another  table-spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  ot 
the  same  quantity  of  Port  Wine  or  good  Ale. 

The  flavour  of  this  Sauce  may  be  varied  by  adding  Tar- 
ragon or  Burnet  Vinegar  (Nos.  396  and  399.) 


28S  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


Sage  and  Oniony  or  Groose'-siuffing  fifcwtcc.— (No.  300.) 

Chop  very  fine  an  ounce  of  Onion  and  half  an  ounce  of 
green  Sage  leaves,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  ibur 
spoonsful  of  water,  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  then  pat 
in  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  fine 
hread  crumbs ;  mix  well  together ; — ^then  pour  to  it  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  (Broth,  or  Gravy,  or)  Melted  Butter,  stir  well 
together,  and  simmer  it  a  few  minutes  longer, 

Obs* — ^This  is  a  very  relishing  Sauce  for  Roast  Port, 
Poultry,  Geese,  or  Ducks ;  or  Green  Pease  on  Maigre  Days» 

See  also  Bonne  Bouche  for  the  above  (No,  341.) 

Green  Mint  Sauce.— (No.  303.) 

Wash  half  a  handful  of  nice  young  fresh-gathered  Green 
Mint,  (to  this  some  add  one-third  the  quantity  of  Parsley,) 
pick  the  leaves  from  the  stalks,  mince  them  very  fine,  and 
put  them  into  a  sauce-b(5ar,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  Booist 
Sugar,  and  four  table-spoonsful  of  Vinegar. 

Obs. — This  is  the  usual  accompaniment  to  Hot  Lamb ; — 
and  an  equally  agreeable  relish  with  Cold  Lamb. 

If  Green  Mint  cannot  be  procured,  this  sauce  may  be 
made  with  Mint  Vinegar  (No.  398.) 

^pple  *SaMce.— (No.  304.) 

Pare  and  core  three  good  sized  baking  Apples,  put  tbem 
into  a  well-tinned  pint  saucepan,  with  two  table- spoonsful 
of  cold  water ;  cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  set  it  on  a  trivet 
over  a  slow  fire  a  couple  oi  hours  before  dinner, — some 
Apples  will  take  a  long  time  stewing, — others  will  be  ready 
in  a  quarter  of  an  hour: — when  the  Apples  are  done 
enough,  pour  off  the  water,  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  to 
get  dry ;  ihien  beat  them  up  with  a  Fork,  with  a  bit  of 
Butter  about  as  big  as  a  Nutmeg,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  Sugar. 

N.B.  Some  add  Lemcn  Peel,  grated,  or  minced  fine,— or 
boil  a  bit  with  the  Apples.  Some  are  fond  of  Apple  Sauce 
with  cold  Pork — ask  those  you  serve  if  they  desire  it. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES;  287 

Mushroom  Sauce, — (No.  305.) 

Pick  and  peel  half  a  pint  of  Mushrooms  (the  smaller  the 
befter],  wash  them  very  cJean,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan vith  half  a  pint  of  Veal  Gravy  or  Milk,  a  little  Pepper 
and  Salt,  and  an  ounce  of  Butter  ruhbed  with  a  table-spoon- 
ftil  of  Flour,  stir  them  together,  and  set  them  over  a  gentle 
fire,,  to  stew  slowly  till  tender ; — skim  and  strain  it. 

Obs. — ^It  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  this,  and  the  two 
following  Sauces,  to  add  to  them  the  juice  of  half  a  dcaen 
Mushrooms,  prepared  the  day  before,  by  sprinkling  them 
with  salt,  the  same  as  when  you  make  C  atsup ;  or  ad<f  a 
lai^  spoonful  of  good  Double  Mushroom  Catsup,  (No^439.) 

See  QuiNTESoENte  of  Mushrooms  (No.  440.) 

N.  B.  Much  as  we  love  the  flavour  of  Mushrooms, — ^we 
must  enter  our  protest  against  their  being  eaten  in  sub- 
stance,— ^when  the  morbid  effects  they  produce  too  often 
prove  them  worthy  of  the  appellations  Seneca  gave  them, 
*'  Voluptuous  Poison,"  **  lethal  luxury,*'  &c. ;  and  we  cau- 
tion those  who  cannot  refrain  from  indulging  their  palate 
with  the  seducii^  relish  of  this  deceitful  Fungus,  to  masti- 
cate it  diligently. 

We  do  not  believe  that  Mushrooms  are  nutritive,— every 
one  knows  they  are  often  dangerously  indigestible, — ^there- 
fore the  Rational  Epicure  will  be  content  with  extracting  the 
flavour  from  them — which  is  obtained  in  the  utmost  perfec- 
tion by  the  process  directed  in. (No.  439). 

Mushroom  Sauce^  .Bfown.— (No.  306.) 

Put  the  Mushrooms  in4o  half,  a  pint  of  Beef  Gravy  (No. 
186),  or   (No.  329);  thicken  with  Flour  and  Butter,  and> 
proceed  as  above. 

Mushroom  Sav^^  Extempore. — (No.  307.) 

Proceed  as  directed  in  (No*  256),  to  melt  Butter, — only, 
instead  of  two  table-spoonsful  of  Milk,  put  in  two  of  Mush- 
room Catsup  (No.  439  or  440); — or  add  it  to  thickened 
Broth,  Gravy,  or  Mock  Turtle.  JSoup,  &c. — or  put  in  (No. 
296.) 

Obs. — ^This  is  a  welcome  Relish  with  Fish,  Poultry,  or. 
Chops  and  Steaks,  &c.     A  couple  of  Quarts  of  good  Catsup 


288  ORAVIBS  AND  SAUCES; 

(No.  439),  will  make  more  good  Sauce  than  ten  times  its 

cost  of  Meat,  &c. 

.    Walnut  Catsup  will  give  you  another  variety ;  and  Ball's  | 

Cavice,  which  is  excellent,  and  sold  at  No.  81,  NewBood  ' 

Street. 

Poor  Man's  Sauce.— (No.  310.) 

Pick  a  handful  of  Parsley  leaves  from  the  stalks,  mince 
them  very  fine,  strew  over  a  little  salt ;  shred  fine  half  a 
dozen  young  green  Onions,  add  these  to  the  Parsley,  and 
put  them  into  a  sauceboat,  with  three  table-spoonsful  of  Oil, 
and  five  of  Vinegar ;  add  some  ground  Black  Pepper  and 
Salt ;  stir  together  and  send  it  up. 

Pickled  French  Beans  or  Gherkins,  cut  fine,  maybe 
added,  or  a  little  grated  Horseradish. 

Obs. — This  Sauce  is  in  much  esteem  in  France,  where 
people  of  taste,  weary  of  rich  dishes,  to  obtain  the  charm  ot' 
variety,  occasionally  order  the  fare  of  the  Peasant. 

«« the  Rich,  tir'd  with  continual  Feasts, 

For  rJiange  become  their  next  poor  Tenaot's  quests ; 
Drink  hearty  draHghts  of  Ale  from  plain  hrowo  bowls, 
And  snatch  the  homely  Rasher  from  the  Coals.*^ 

Drtden's  Prologue  to  **  All /or  Lowe," 

The  Spaniard's  Garlick  Gravy. — (No.  311.)     See  abo 

(No.  272.) 

Slice  a  pound  and  a  half  of  Veal,  or  Beef,  pepper  and 
salt  it,  lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  couple  of  Carrots  split,  and 
four  cloves  of  Garlick  sliced,  a  quarter  pound  of  sliced  tiam, 
and  a  large  spoonful  of  water ;  set  the  stewpan  over  a  gende 
fire,  and  watch  when  the  meat  begins  to  stick  to  the  pan ; 
when  it  does,  turn  it,  and  let  it  be  very  well  browned,  (but 
take  care  it  is  not  at-  all  burnt ;)  then  dredge  it  with  floor, 
and  pour  in  a  quart  of  broth,  a  bunch  of  sweet  Herbds  a 
couple  of  Cloves  bruised,  and  slice  in -a  Lemon;  set  it  on 
again,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half 
longer ;  then  take  off  jthe  fat,  and  strain  the  gravy  irom  the 
ingredients,  by  pouring  it  through  a  napkin,  straining,  and 
pressing  it  very  hard. 

Oi«.— This,  it  is  said,  was  the  secret  of  the  Old  Spaniard, 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES.  289 

vrho  kept  the  House  called  by  tbat  name  on  Hampstead 
Heath.  . 

'  Those  who  love  Garlick,  will  find  it  an  extremely  rich 
relish.  . 

Mr.  Michael  Kelly's*  Sauce  for  Boiled  Tripcy  Calf-. 
head,  or  Cour-Aee/.— (No.  311*.) 

Garlick  Vinegar,  a  table-spoonful, — of  Mustard,  Brown 
Sugar,  and  Black  Pepper,  a  tea-spoonful  each,  stirred  into 
half  a  pint  of  oiled  melted  butter. 

Mr.  Kelly*s  Sauce  Piquante. 

Pound  a  table-spoonful  of  Capers, — and  one  of  minced 
Parsley, — as  fine  as  possible ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three 
hard  Ews,  rub  them  well  together  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
Mustard. — ^bone  six  Anchovies,  and  pound  them,  rub  them 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  mix  with  two  table-spoonsful  of 
Oil,  one  of  Vinegar,  one  of  Shallot  ditto,  and  a  few  grains 
of  Cayenne  Pepper ;  rub  all  these  well  together  in  a  mortar, 
till  thoroughly  mcorporated,  then  stir  them  into  half  a  pint 
of  good  Gravy,  or  melted  Butter,  and  put  the  whole  through 
a  sieve. 

Fried  Parsley.— -(^o,  317.) 

Let  it  be  nicely  picked  and  washed,  then  put  into  a  cloth, 
and  swung  backwards  and  forwards  till  it  is  perfectly  dry^ — ; 
put  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  fry  it  quick,  and  have  a  slice 
ready  to  take  it  out  the  moment  it  is  crisp,  (in  another  mo- 
ment it  will  be  spoilt) ;  put  it  on  a  sieve,  or  coarse  cloth, 
before  the  fire  to  drain. 

Crisp  Par5%.— (No.  318  ) 

Pick  and  wash  young  Parsley,  shake  it  in  a  dry  cloth  to 
drain  the  water  from  it ;  spread  it  on  a  sheet  of  clean  paper, 
in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  and  turn  it  frequently  until 
it  is  quite  crisp. — This  is  a  much  more  easy  way  of  prepar- 
ing  it  than  Frying  it,  which  is  not  seldom  ill  done. 

Obs, — A  very  pretty  garnish  for  Lamb  Chops,  Fish,  &c. 

\ ■    '  ■        ' w»     

*  Composer  and  Director  of  the  Music  of  the  Theatre  Royal  Drory 
Lane,  and  ijiie  Italian  Opera. 

o 


990        «  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES* 

Fried  Bread  S^pets.^(^x}.  319.) 

Cut  a  slice  of  Bread  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
divide  it  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  two  inches  square; 
•—shape  these  into  Triangles  or  Crosses : — put  some  very 
dean  Fat  into  ftu  iron  Fryingpan ;  when  it  is  hot,  put  in  tbe 
sippets,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  light  hrovon  ;  take  them  up 
with  a  Fish  slice,  and  drain  them  well  from  Fat,  turning  them 
occasionally  : — ^this  will  take  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Keep  the 
paii  at  such  a  distance  from  the  fire,  that  the  &t  may  he  hot 
enough  to  brown  without  burning  the  bread  ;*— this  is  a  re- 
quisite precaution  in  frying  delicate  thin  things. 

O65.— These  we  a  pretty  garnish^  and  very  welcome  ac- 
companiment and  improvement  to  the  finest  made  Dishes: 
—they  may  also  be  sent  up  with  Pea^  and  other  Soups-; — 
but'  when  intended  for  Soups,  the  Bread  must  be  cut  into 
bits,  about  half  an  inch  square. 

N.  B.  i/*  these  are  not  done  very  delicately  dean  and  dry ^ 
they  are  uneatable. 

Fried  Bread  Crumbs. — {No.  320.) 

Itub  Bread  (which  has  been  baked  two  days)  through  a 
wire  sieve,  or  Cullender ; — or  you  may  rub  them  in  a  cloth 
till  they  are  as  fine  as  if  they  had  been  grated,  and  sifted; 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of  Batter, 
place  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  stir  them  aboiit  with  % 
wooden  spoon  till  they  are  the  colour  of  a  Guinea;  spread 
them  on  a  sieve,  and  let  them  stand  ten  minutes  to  drain, 
turning  them  frequently. 

Ohs, — FriedCrumhs  are  sent  up  with  roasted  Sweetbreads, 
— ^or  Larks, — Pheasants,— Partridges,  — Woodcocks, — and 
Grouse,— or  Moor  Game,— e^rpeciai/y  if  they  have  been  kept 
hug  enough. 

Bread  Sa%ee.-^(No.  321.) 

Put  a  small  tea-cupful  of  Bi^ad  Crumbs  into  a  steWpan, 
pour  on  it  as  much  milk  as  it  will  soak  up,  and  a  little  more; 
or,  instead  of  the  milk,  take  the  Giblfets,  head,  neck,  and 
legs,  &c.  of  the  Poultry,  &c.  and  stew  them,  and  moisten 
the  bre^  with  this  liquor ;  put  it  on  the  fire  with  a  middling 


OIUVIES  AND  SAUCES.  291 

med  Odioh,  and  a  doicfn  berries  of  Pepper  or  Allspice,  or 
a  little  Mace ;  let  it  boil,  then  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer 
till  it  is  quite  stiff,  and  then  put  to  it  about  two  table-spoons- 
ful of  Cream  or  melted  Butter,  or  a  little  good  Broth;  take 
oat  the  Onion  and  Pepper,  and  it  is  ready. 

Obs. — ^This  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  Game  antt 
Poultry,  &c.  and  a  good  vehicle  for  receiving  various  fla- 
vours from  THB  Magazine  of  Taste  (No.  463.) 

Rice  Sauce.— {So.  321».) 

Steep  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Rice  in  a  pint  of  milk,  with 
Onion,  Pepper,  &c.  as  in  the  last  receipt ;  when  the  rice  is 
quite  tender  (take  out  the  spice),  rub  it  through  a  sieve  mt6 
a  clean  stewpan :  if  too  thidc,  put  a  little  milk  or  cream  to 
it. 

Obs. — ^This  is  a  very  delicate  White  sauce ; — ^and  at  ek- 
gant  tables,  is  frequently  served  instead  of  Bread  Sauce. 

Browning— (No.  322.) 

*  Is  a  coiivenient  article  to  colour  those  Soups  or  Setucei^  of 
which  it  is  supposed  their  deep  brown  complexion  denotes 
^e  strength  and  savouriness  of  the  composition. 

Burnt  Sugar  is  also  a  favourite  ingredient  with  the  Brew- 
ers, who  use  it  under  the  name  of  **  Essentia  Bina  "  to  co- 
lour their  Beer; — it  is  also  employed  by  the  Brandy-makers, 
inconsiderable  quantity,  to  colour  Brandy ;  to  which,  be- 
sides enriching  its  complexion,  it  gives  that  sii^eetkh  taste, 
and  fulness  in  the  mouthy  which  custom  has  taught  Brandy 
drinkers  to  admire,  and  prefer  to  the  finest  Cognac  in  its 
genuine  state. 

When  employed  for  Culinaxy  Purposes,  this  is  sometimes 
made  with  strong  Gravy,  or  Walnut  Catsup.  Those  who 
like  a  g<y(U  of  Aci(i  may  add  a  little  Walnut  Pickle. 

ft  will  hardly  be  told  from  what  is  commonly  called 
*^j|fmtttne  Japanese  SoY,"*  (for  which  it  is  a  ver^  good 


■Mn^MWHMMMista 


*  **  By  the  best  accounts  I  can  find,  Sot  is  a  preparation  from  the 
seeds  of  a  species  of  the  DoUchwf,  prepared  by  a  fermeiitation  of  tbe 
fttfina  6f  tlda  seed  in  a  stroogp lixivium  of  common  sii\V^-^Quhh%v'* 
Jb^dfeil.voLi.p.4aO. 

o2 


292  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

substitute) .  Burnt  Treacle,  or  Sugar, — the  Peek  of  Wal- 
nut,— ^Cayenne  pepper,— or  Capsicums, — or  Chilies, — 
Vinegar, — ^Garlick, — and  pickled  Herrings,  (especially  the 
Dutch,)  Sardinias, — or  Sprats,— appear  to  be  the  bases  of 
almost  all  the  Sauces  which  now,  to  use  the  maker's  phrase, 
— ^tand  unrivalled. 

Although  indefatigable  research  and  experiment  has  put 
us  in  possession  of  these  compositions, — it  would  not  be  quite 
fair,  to  enrich  the  Cook,  at  the  expense  of  the  Oilman,  &c. 
— we  hope  we  have  said  enough  on  these  subjects,  to  satisfy 
**  the  Rational  Epicure." 

,  Put  half  a  pound  of  pounded  Lump  Sugar,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water,  into  a  clean  iron  saucepan,  set  it  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it 
becomes  a  bright  brown  colour,  and  begins  to  smoke  ;  then 
add  to  it  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  dilute  it  by  degrees  with 
water,  till  it  is  the  thickness  of  Soy ;  let  it  boil,  take  off  the 
scum,  aud  strain  the  liquor  into  bottles,  which  most  be  well 
stopped :  if  you  have  not  any  of  this  by  you,  and  you  wish 
to  darken  the  colour  of  your  sauces,  pound  a  tea-spoonful  of 
lump  sugar,  and  put  into  an  iron  spoon,  with  as  much  water 
as  will  dissolve  it;  hold  it  over  a  quick  fire  till  it  becomes 
of  a  very  dark  brown  colour ;  mix  it  with  the  soup,  &c. 
while  it  is  hot. 

065.-'-Mo5it  of  the  preparations  under  this  title  are  a  med- 
ley of  Burnt  Butter, — Spices, — Catsup, — ^Wine,  &c.  We 
recommend  the  Rational  Epicure  to  be  content  with  the  na- 
turcU  Colour  of  Soups  and  Saucesy  which,  to  a  well-edu- 
cated Palate,  are  much  more  agreeable,  without  any  of  these 
empyreumatic  additions;  however  they  may  please  the  Eye, 
they  plague  the  Stomach  most  grievously,  so  *'  open  your 
Mouth  and  shut  your  Eyes.'^ 

For  the  sake  of  producing  a  pretty  colour,  **  Cheese^^ 
'^^^  Cayenne,^*  (No.  404),— '*£^5e/ice  of  jinchovy^'*  (No. 
433),  &c.  are  frequently  adulterated  with  a  colouring  matter 
containing  Red  Lead/  / — See  AccuM  on  the  AduUeralion  of 
Food,  2nd  Edit.  12rao.  1820. 

A  scientific  "  homme  de  bouche  de  France "  observes — 
**Tbe  generality  of  Cooks  calcine  Bones,  till  they  are  as 
black  as  a  Coal,  and  throw  them  hissing  hot  into  the  stew- 


1 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCBS.  293 

^  V 

pan,  to  give  a  brown  colour  to  their  Broths.  These  insnre- 
dients,  under  the  appearance  of  a  nourishing  Gravy,  enye-^ 
lope  our  food  with  stimulating  aoid  and  corrosive  Poison, 

•'  Rou3^,  or  Thickening  (No.  257),  if  not  made  very  care- 
fully, produces  exactly  the  same  effect ;  and  the  juices  of 
Beef,  or  Veal,  burnt  over  a  hot  fire,  to  give  a  rich  colour  to 
Soup  or  Sai^es,  grievously  offend  the  Stomach,  and  create 
the  most  distressing  indigestions. 

**  The  judicious  Cook  will  refuse  the  help  of  these  in(!en- 
diary  articles  *  which  ignorance,  or  quackery,  only  employ, 

—not  only  at  the  expense  of  the  credit  of  tlie  Gook,  but  the 

health  of  her  employers." 
N.  B.  The  BEST  browning  is  good  Home-made  Glaze 

(No.  252),— Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439), — or  Claret,  or 

Port  Wine.     See  also  (No.  257) ; — or  cut  meat  into  slices, 

and  broil  them  brown,  and  then  ste^  them. 

Gravy  for  Roast  .¥c(rf.— (No.  326.) 

Host  joints  will  afford  sufficient  trimmings,  &c.  to  make 
half  a  pint  of  plain  pravy,  which  ,you  may  colour  with  a 
.  few  drops  of  (No.  322) ; — for  thosfe  that  do  not,  about  half 
^  hour  before  you  think  the  meat  will  be  done,  mix  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  Salt,  with  a  full  quarter  pint  of  boiling  Water; 
drop  this  by  degrees  on  the  brown  parts  of  the  joint ;  set  a 
dish  under  to  catch  it,  (the  meat  will  soon  brown  again) ; 
set  it  by, — ^as  it  cools,  the  Fat  will  float  on  the  surface ; 
when  the  meat  is  ready  carefully  remove  the  Fat,  and  warm 
up  the  Gfavy,  and  pour  it  into  the  Dish. 

The  Common  Method  is,  when  the  meat  is  in  the  dish 
you  intend  to  send  it  up  in,  to  mix  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
^t  in  a  quarter  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  to  drop  some  of 
this  over  the  comers  and  underside  of  the  meat,  and  to  pour 
the  rest  through  the  hole  the  spit  came  out  of, — and  some 
pierce  the  inferior  parts  of  the  joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

The  following  Receijpt  was  given  us  by  a  very  good  Cook: 
— ^You  may  ma&e  good  Browning  for  Roast  Meat  and  Poultry, 
^y  saving  the  Brown  Bits  of  Roast  Meat  or  Broiled;  cut 
^hem  small,  put  them  into  a  basin,  cover  them  with  boiling 
^^^r^  add  put  them  away  till  next  day ;  then  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  strain  it  through 


294  GRAVIES  AND  8A1TCS8. 

a  sieve  into  a  bastn^  and  put  it  away  for  use.  When  3foa 
want  Gravy  for  Roast  Meat,  put  two  table-spoonsful  into 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt ; — if  for  Roasted 
VecUj  put  three  tabie-spoonsful  into  half  a  pint  of  thin 
melted  Butter. 

N.  B.  The  Gravy  which  comes  down  in  the  dish,  the 
Cook  (if  she  is  a  good  housewife)  will  preserve  to  enrich 
Hashes  or  little  Made  Dishes,  &c. 

Obs. — Some  Culinary  professors,  who  think  nothing  can 
be  excellent,  that  is  not  extravagant,— call  this  '<  Scots 
Gravy  ;"  not,  I  believe,  intending  it,  as  it  certainly  is,  a 
compliment  to  the  laudable,  and  rational  frugality  of  that 
intelligent  and  sober-minded  People. 

N.  B.  This  gravy  should  be  brought  to  table  in  a  Sauce* 
boat ;  preserve  the  intrinsic  Gravy  which  flows  from  the 
meat,  in  the  Argyll. 

Gravy  for  Boiled  Meat^  (No.  327.) 

Maybe  made  with  Parings  and  Trimmings,— or  pour 
from  a  quarter  to  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  Meat 
was  boiled,  into  the  dish  with  it,  and  pierce  the  inferior  part 
of  the  joint  with  a  sharp  skewer. 

Wow  Wow  Sauce  for  Stewed  or  Bouilli  Beef — (No.  328.) 

Chop  some  Parsley  leaves  very  finely,  quarter  two  or  three 
ficVXed  Cticumbers,  or  Walnuts,  and  divide  them  into  small 
squares,  and  set  them  by  ready ; — put  into  a  saucepan  a  bit 
of  Butter  as  big  an  egg ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  to  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  fine  Flour,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  the  Broth  in 
which  the  Beef  was  boiled ;  add  a  table- spoonful  of  Vine- 
gar, the  like  quantity  of  Mushroom  Cat«up,  or  Port  Wine, 
or  both,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  Mustard;  let  it  simmer 
together  till  it  is  as  thick  as  you  wish  it,  put  in  the  Parsley 
and  Pickles  to  get  warm,  and  pour  it  over  the  Beef,— or  ra- 
ther send  it  up  in  a  Sauce-tureen, 

Obs. — If  you  think  the  above  not  sufficiently  piquante, 
add  to  it  some  Capers,  or  a  minced  Shallot,  or  one  or  two 
tea- spoonsful  of  Shallot  Wine  (No.  402), — or  Essence  of 
Apchovy,— or  Basil  (No.  397), — ^Elder,  or  Tarragon  (No. 
396,  or  Horseradish   (No.  399*),  or  Burnet  Vinegar;  or 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES.  295 

Strew  over  the  Meat,  Carrots  and  Turnips  cut  into  dice, — 
miDced  Capers, — Walnut^, — Red  Cab,l)age, — ^pickled  Cu- 
cumbers,—or  French  Beans,  &c. 

BesF  GraW  Sauce,— {No.  329) — or  Broum  Sauce  for 
RagoiUj  Game^  Poultry^  Fish^  ^c. 

If  you  want  Gravy  immediately,  see  (No.  307),  or  (No. 
252,)  if  you  have  time  enough. 

Furnish  a  thick  and  well-tinned  Stewp^n,  with  a  thin  slice 
of  fat  Ham  or  Bacon,  or  an  ounce  of  Butter,  and  a  middling 
sized  Onion ; — on  this,  lay  a  pound  of  nice  juicy  Gravy  Beet, 
(as  the  object  in  making  Gravy  is  to  extract  the  nutritious 
succuleiice  of  the  Meat,  it  must  be  beaten  to  comminute 
the  containing  vessels,  and  scored  to  augment  the  surface  to 
the  action  of  the  water,)  cover  the  Stewpan,  set  it  on  a  slow 
fire ;  when  the  meat  begins  to  brown,  turn  it  about,  and  let 
it  get  slightly  browned,  (but  take  care  it  is  not  at  all  burnt:) 
then  pour  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  set  the  pan 
on  the  fire; — when  it  boils,— carefully  catch  the  scum^— - 
and  then  put  in  a  crust  of  Bread  toasted  brown,  (don'^t  buim 
it) — a  spng  of  Winter  Savory,  or  Lemon  Thyme  and  Pars- 
ley— a  roll  of  thin  cut  Lemon  Peel,  a  dozen  berries  of  All- 
spice, and  a  dozen  of  Black  Pepper ;  cover  the  stewpan  close, 
let  it  stew  very  gently  for  about  two  hours,  tlien  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin. 

If  you  wish  to  thicken  it,  set  a  clean  stewpan  over  a  slow 
fire,  with  about  an  ounce  of  Butter  in  it ;  when  it  is  melted, 
dredge  to  it  (by  degrees)  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up, 
stirring  them  well  together ;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  pour 
in  a  litde  of  the  Gravy, — stir  it  well  together,  and  add  the 
remainder  by  degrees ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longer,  and  skim  off  the  fat,  &c. 
as  it  rises ;  when  it  is  about  as  thick  as  cream,  squeeze  it 
through  a  tammis,  or  fine  sieve,-^^ind  you  will  have  a  fine 
rich  Brown  Sauce,  at  a  very  moderate  Expense,  and  without 
much  trouble. 

Qbs. — If  you  wish  to  make  it  still  more  Relisking^ — if  it  is 
for  Poultry^  you  may  pound  the  Liver  with  a  bit  of  Butter, 
rub  it  througn  a  sfieve,  and  stir  it  into  the  Sauce  when  you 
put  in  the  thickening. 


296  OBAYIBS  AND  SAUCES. 

For  a  Ragout  or  Game,  add  at  the  same  time  a  table- 
spoonful  of  AJushroom  Catsup,  or  (No.  343,)*  or  (No.  429,) 
or  a  few  drops  of  (No.  422,]  the  juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  znd 
a  roll  of  the  rind  pared  thin,  a  table-spoonful  of  Port,  or 
other  wine,  (Claret  is  best,)  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne 
Pepper ;— or  use  double  the  quantity  of  Meat, — or  add  a  bit 
of  Glaze,  or  Portable  Soup  (No.  252,)  to  it. 

You  may  vary  (tie  flavour,  by  sometimes  adding  a  little 
Basil,  or  Burnet  Wine,  (No.  397,)  or  Tarragon  Vinegar  (No. 
396,)  or  a  wine-glass  of  Quintessence  of  Mushrooms  (No. 
450.) 

See  the  Magazine  of  Taste,  (No.  463.) 

N.B,  This  is  an  excellent  Gravy  ;  and  at  a  large  Dinner, 
a  pint  of  it  should  be  placed  at  each  end  of  the  Table — you 
may  make  it  equal  to  the  most  costly  Consommi  of  the  Pari- 
sian Kitchen.. 

Those  families  who  are  frequently  in  want  of  Gravy, 
Sauces,  &c.  (without  plenty  of  which,  no  Cook  can  support 
the  credit  of  ner  Kitchen,)  should  keep  a  stock  o/*  Portable 
Soup  or  Glaze,  see  (No.  252 :)  this  will  make  Gravy  imr 
diatefy^ 

Game  GVary.— (No.  337.  J 
See  Ohs.  to  (No.  329.) 

Orange  Gravy  Sauce,  for  Wild  Ducks,  Woodcocks,  SrapeSt 
Widgeon,  and  Teal,  ^c— (No.  338.) 

Set  on  a  Saucepan  with  half  a  pint  of  Veal  Gravy  (No. 
192,)  add  to  it  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  Basil,  a  small  Onioa 
and  a  roll  of  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel,  and  let  it  boil  up  £br  a 
few  minutes,  and  strain  it  off.    Put  to  the  clear  gravy  the  juice 

*  One  of  **le8  Bonnes  hommee  de  Bauche  de  France^  ordentk* 
foUowiDg  additiou  for  Game  Gravy: — "  For  a  plot,  par- roast  a  Pvt- 
ridge  or  a  Pigeon  ;  cut  off  the  meat  of  it,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,,  and  pot 
it  into  the  Stewpan  when  you  thicken  the  Sauce." — We  do  not  recm- 
7ttend  tither  Soup  or  Sauce  to  be  thickbnbd, — because  it  requires  (to 
give  ittbe  same  quickness  on  tke  Palate  it  had  tefore  it  was  tbicfcened) 
double  the  quantity-  of  Piquamte  materials, — which  are  thus  smuggled 
down  the  Red  Lane,  without  affording  any  amusement  to  the  Moutb, 
and  at  the  risk  of — highly  offending  the  Stomach. 


.6RAVISS  AND  SAUCES.  297 

of  a  Seville  Oranofe,  or  Lemon,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Salt, 
the  same  of  Pepper,  and  a  glass  of  Red  Wine ;  send  it  up  hot. 
Eshallot  and  Cayenne  may  be  added. 

Obs. — This  is  an  excellent  Sauce  for  all  kinds  of  Wild  water 
fowl. 

The  common  way  of  gashins:  the  breast,  and  squeezing  in 
an  Orange,  cools  and  hardens  the  flesh,  and  compels  every 
one  to  eat  Duck  that  way ; — some  people  like  Wild  fowl  very 
little  done,  and  without  any  Sauce. 

Gravies  should  always  be  sent  up  in  a  covered  boat ;  they 
keep  hot  longer ;  and  it  leaves  it  to  the  choice  of  the  Com- 
pany to  partake  it  or  not. 

Bonne  Bouche,  for  Goose,  Duck,  or  Roast  Pork. — 

(No.  341.) 

Mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  Mustard,  a  salt-spoonful  of 
Salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne,  in  a  large  wine-gla^ful 
of  Claret,  or  Port- wine  ;*  pour  it  into  the  Goose  by  a  slit  in 
the  apron,  just  before  serving  up  ;t  or,  as  all  the  Company 
may  not  like  it,  stir  it  into  a  quarts  of  a  pint  of  thick  melted 
BiUter^  or  thickened  Gravy ,  and  send  it  up  in  a  Boat,  See 
also  Sage  and  Onion  Sauce,  (No.  300.) 

Or, 

A  Favourite  Relish /or  Roast  Pork,  or  Geese,  8fc.  is, — 
two  ounces  of  leaves  of  Green  Sage,  an  ounce  of  fresh  Lemon  Peel 
pared  thin,  same  of  Salt,  minced  Shallot,  and  half  a  drachm 
of  Cayenne  Pepper,  ditto  of  Citric  Acid,  steeped  for  a  fort- 
night in  a  pint  of  Claret ;  shake  it  up  well  every  day ;  let  it 
stand  a  day  to  settle,  and  decant  the  clear  liquor, — bottle  it 
and  cork  it  close, — a  table-spoonful,  or  more,  in  a  quarter 
pint  of  Gravy,  or  melted  Butter. 

*  To  this  some  add  a  table-spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  430,) 
nnd  ia<:fead  of  the  sult-'spoonful  of  Salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  Essence 
of  Anchovy  (No.  433.)  If  the  above  articles  are  nibbed  together  in  a 
mortar,  and  put  into  a  close  stopped  bottle,  they  will^keep  for  some  time. 

t  Thus  far  the  above  is  from  Dr.  Hunter's  **  Cu/rna,*'^  who  says 
it  is  a  secret  worth  knowing : — we  agree  with  him,  and  so  tell  it  here  ; 
with  a  little  addition,  which  we  think  renders  ii  a  still  moie  gratif^tAg 
ccunmunication. 

o  5 


298  ORAVIBS  AND  SlAUC£S. 

Robert  Sauce  for  Roast  Pork,  or  6rcc5C,^c.— (No.  342.) 

Pat  an  ounce  of  Butter  into  a  Pint  Stewpan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  add  to  it  .half  an  ounce  of  Onion  minced  very  fine : 
turn  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  till  it  takes  a  light  brown  colour, 
then  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  Flour,  a  table-spoonful  of 
Mushroom  Catsup,  (with  or  without  the  like  quantity  of  Port 
wine,)  half  a  pint  of  Broth,  or  water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  tea* 
spoonful  of  Pepper,  the  same  of  Salt,  give  them  a  boil,  then 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  Mustard,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  Lemon, 
or  one  or  two  tea-spoonsful  of  Vinegar,  or  Basil,  (No.  397,) 
or  Tarragon  (No.  396,)  or  Bamet  Vinegar  (No.  399.) 

Obs. — The  French  call  this  "Sauce  Robert"  (from  the 
name  of  the  book  who  invented  it,)  and  are  very  fond  of  it 
with  many  things,  which  Maht  Smith,  in  the  "  Compkte 
Housekeeper^^^  8vo.  1772,  p.  105,  translates  Roe-Boat- 
Sauce.    See  Obs.  to  (No.  529.) 

Turtle  Sauce.— (No.  343.) 

Put  into  your  Stewpan  a  pint  of  Beef  Gravy  thickened  (No. 
329 ;)  add  to  this  some  of  the  following  Essence  of  Turtle 
(No.  343,*)  or  a  wine-glassful  of  Madeira,  the  juice  and  peel 
of  half  a  Lemon,  a  few  leaves  of  Basil,*  an  Eshallot  quartered, 
a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  pepper,  or  Curry  powder,  and  a 
little  Essence  of  Anchovy;  let  them  simmer  together  for 
five  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  tammis ; — ^you  may  in- 
troduce a  dozen  Turtle  Forcemeat  Balls ;  see  Receipt  (No* 
380,)  &c. 

Obs, — This  is  the  Sauce  for  boiled  or  hashed  Calf's  head, 
—Stewed  Veal, — or  any  dish  you  dress  Turtle  fashion. 

The  far-fetcht  knd  dear-bought  Turtle,  owes  its  high  rank 
(aa  the  list  of  savoury  Bonnes  Bouches  to  the  relislung  and 
piquante  sauce  that  is  made  fat  it ; — ^without,  it  would  be  as 
insipid  as  any  other  fish  is  without  Sauce.  See  Obs.  to  (No. 
493.) 

Essence  of  Turtle.— (So.  343*). 

Essence  of  Anchovy  (No.  433,)  one  wine-glassful. 
Shallot  Wine  (No.  402,)  one  and  a  half  ditto. 
Basil  Wine  (No.  397,)  four  ditto. 


Mia 


*  See  Basil  Wine,  (No.  39T.) 


OtUVlES  AND  SAUCES*  299 

Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  two  ditto. 

Concrete  Lemon  Acid,  one  drachm,  or  some  Artificial 
Lemon  Juice  (No.  407*.) 

Lemon  Peel,  very  thinly  pared,  three-q^uarters  of  ah 
ounce. 

Cuny  Powder  (No.  455,)  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 

Steep  for  a  week  to  get  the  flavour  of  the  Lemon 
Peel,  ^c. 

Obs, — ^This  is  very  convenient,  to  extemporaneously 
Turtlejy  Soup,  Sauce,  or  Potted  Meats,  Ragouts,  Savoury 
Patties,  Pies,  &c.  &c. 

Whie  Sauce,  for  Venison  or  Jfare*— (No.  344.) 

A  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Claret  or  Port  Wine,  the  same 
quantity  of  plain  unflavoured  Mutton  Gravy  (No.  347,)  and 
a  table-spoonful  of  Currant  Jelly ;  let  it  just  boil  up,  and 
send  it  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Sharp  Sauce  far  Vermon.i^o.  345.)  .^ 

Put  into  a  silver,  or  very  clean  and  well  tinned  sauce-pan^ 
half  a  pint  of  the  best  white- wine  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  pounded :  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently :  skim  it  carefully,  pour  it  through  a  tammit 
or  fine  sieve,  and  send  it  up  in  a  basin. 

065.— Some  people  like  this  better  than  the  Sweet  Wine 
satuxs* 

Sweet  Sauce  for  Venison  or  Hare. — (No.  346.) 

Put  some  Currant  Jelly  into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted, 
pour  it  into  a  sauce-boat. 

N.B.  Many  send  it  to  table  without  melting.  To  make 
Currant  Jelly,  see  (No.  479*.) 

This  is  a  more  salubrious  relish  than  either  Spice  or  Salt, 
and  when  the  Palate  protests  against  animal  f(>od  unless  its 
flaTOur  be  masked. — Currant  Jelly  is  a  good  accompaniment 
to  Roasted  or  Hashed  Meats^ 

Mutton  Gravy,  for  Venison  or  Hare. — (No.  347.) 

The  best  gravy  for  Venison  is  that  made  with  the  trim- 
miogs  of  the  Joint :  if  this  is  all  used,  and  you  have  no  rxA* 


300  qcBAYIBS  AMD  SAUCBS« 

drassed  Venison,  cut  a  8cng  of  mutton  in  pieces,  broil  k  a 
little  brown,  then  put  it  into  a^  clean  stewpan,  with  a  quart 
of  boiling  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  foe 
an  bour :  now  uncover  the  stewpaui  and  let  it^  reduce  to  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint,  pour  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  take  the  fat 
off,  and  send  it  up  in  a  boat.-^It  is  only  to  be  seasoned  mih 
a  little  salt,  that  it  may  not  overpower  the  natural  flavour  of 
the  meat.     You  may  colour  it  with  a  very  little  of  (No.  322.) 

N.B.  Some  prefer  the  unseasoned  Beef  Gravy,  (No.  186,) 
which  you  may  make  in  five  minutes  with  (No.  252.) 

The  Queen's  Gravy  op  Mutton,  as  made  by  her 
Majesty's  ^^Escuyer  de  Cuisiwi,^^  Monsieur  La  Montague. 
*'  Roast  a  juicy  leg  of  Mutton  three  quarters,  then  gash  it  in 
several  places,  and  press  out  the  jmice  by  a  screw  press.*' — 
From  Sir  Kenelm  Digby'b  Cookery^  18mp.  London,  1669. 

Curry  Sauce-^fNo.  348.) 

is  made  by'stirring  a  sufficient  quantity  of  Curry  stuff,  see 
(No.  455,)  into  gravy  or  melted  butter,  or  onion  sauce,  (Nos. 
297,  298,)  or  onion  gravy  (No.  299  or  339.) 

The  compositions  of  Curry  Powder  and  the  Palates  of  those 
who  eat  it  vary  so  much,  that  we  cannot  recommend  any  spe- 
.  cific  quantity.  The  Cook  must  add  it  by  degrees,  tsistmg  as 
she  proceeds,  and  take  care  not  to  put  in  too  much, 

Obs, — The  Curry  Powder  (No.  455^)  approxiinates  more 
nearly  to  the  best  Indian  Curry  stuff,  and  is  an  agreeable  and 
well  blenj^ed  mixture  of  this  class  of  aromatics. 

N,B.  To  dress  Curries,  see  (No.  497.) 

Essence  of  Ham. — (No.  351.)j 

Essence  of  Ham  and  of  Beef  may  be  purchased  at  the 
Eating-houses  which  cut  up  those  joints, — the  former  for 
half  a  crown  or  three  shillings  a  Quart :  it  is  therefore  a  most 
Economical  relish  for  Made  Dishes,  and  to  give  piquance  to 
Sauces,  &c. 

Griil  Sfaucc— (No.  355.) 

To  half  a  pint  of  Gravy  (No.  329,)  add  an  ounce  of  fresh 
Butter,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  Flour,  previously  well  rubbed 
together,  the  same  of  Mushroom,  or  Walnut  Catsup, — tiro 


GBATIES  AND  SAUCES«  301 

tea^spoonsful  of  Lemon  juice,  one  of  made  Mustard,  one  of 
minced  Capers,  half  a  one  of  black  Pepper,  a  quarter  of  a 
Tind  of  a  Lemon,  grated  very  thin,  a  tea-spoonful  of  Essence 
of  Anchovies,  and  a  little  Shallot  wine  (No.  402,)  or  a  very 
small  piece  of  minced  Shallot,  and  a  little  Chili  Vinegar 
(No.  405,)  or  a  few  grains  of  Cayfenne,  simmer  together  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  pour  a  little  of  it  over  the  Grill,  and 
send  up  the  rest  in  a  sauce  tureen.  For  Anchovy  toasts, 
(No.  573  or  538.) 

Sauce  d  la  Tartare. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  three  hard  yolks  of  Eggs,  put  them  into 
a  Basin,  and  add  half  a  table-spoonful  of  made  Mustard,  and 
a  little  Pepper  and  Salt,  pour  to  it  by  degrees,  stirring  it  fast 
all  the  white,  about  two  wine-glassesful  of  salad  oil, — stir  k 
together  till  it  comes  to  a  good  thickness. 

N.B.  A  little  Tarragon  or  Chervil  ibinced  very  finely,  and 
a  little  Vinegar,  may  be  added,  or  some  of  thei  ngredients 
enumerated  in  (No.  372.) 

Obs, — ^This  from  the  French  Artist  who  wrote  the  Receipt 
for  dressing  a  Turtle. 

06«. — These  are  piguante  relishes  for  Anchovy  toasts  (No. 
573,)  or  (No.  538 ;)  for  Broiled  Devils,  &c.,  "  Feritabk 
Sauce  d^EnfeTy^^  see  (No.  538,)  and  a  refreshing  excitement 
for  those  idle  palates,  who  are  as  incessantly  mumbling  out 
•*  ptquante^  piquante^^  as  Parrots  do  *'  Pretty  PolU  Pretty 
PolV 

'*  For  palates  grown  callous  almost  to  disease. 
Who  peppers  the  highest  is  surest  to- please.'* 

Goldsmith. 

Sauce  for  STeaks,  cyr  Chops,  Cutlets,  ^c 
(No.  356.)     See  also  (No.  331.) 

Take  your  Chops  out  of  the  Frying  Pan  ; — for  a  pound  qt 
meat,  keep  a  table-spoonful  of  the  Fat  in  the  Pan,  or  put  in 
about  an  ounce  of  Butter, — put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will 
make  it  a  paste,  rub  it  well  together  over  the  fire  till  they  are 
a  little  brown, — ^then  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  re- 
duce it  to  the  thickness  of  good  cream,  and  a  table-spoonful 


302  OIUVIB8  AND  SAIICBS« 

of  Mushroom,  or  Walnut  Catsup,  or  Pickle,  or  BrowBtog 
(Na  322,)  or.  (No.  449;)  let  it  boil  together  a  few  minutes, 
and  pour  it  through  a  sieve  to  the  Steaks,  &c. 

06f.— To  the  above  is  sometimes  added  a  sliced  OnioD, 
or  a  minced  Eshallot,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  Port  wine,  or 
a  little  Shallot  wine  (Nos.  402,  423,  or  135.)  Garnish  with 
finely  scraped  Horseradish  or  pickled  Walnuts,  Gherkins,  &c 
Some  Beejf  Eaters  like  chopped  Shallots  in  one  Saucer  and 
Horseradish  grated  in  Vinegar  in  another.  Broiled  Mosb* 
rooms  are  favourite  relishes  to  Beef  Steaks. 

Sauce  Piquavte  for  Cold  Meaty  Game^  Poultry ^  Fishy  &c., 
or  Salads.— (1^0.  359.)  See  also  (No.  372,)  aiid  C^ 
cfonber  Vinegar  (Nos.  399  and  453.) 

Pound  in  a  mortar  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  that  have  been 
boiled  hard  (No.  547,)  with  a  mustard-spoonful  of  made 
mustard,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  add  two  table-spoonsfol 
of  Salad  Oil,  mix  well,  and^then  add  three  table-spoonsful  of 
Vinegar,  rub  it  up  well  till  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  pass  it 
through  a  tammis  or  sieve. 

Obs, — ^To  the  above  some  add  an  Anchovy  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  or  Walnut  Pickle,  some  finely 
cnopped  Parsley, — grated  Horseradish,— or  young  Onions 
minced,  or  Burnet  (No.  399,)  Horseradish  (No.  399*  or 
402,) — or  Tarragon,  or  Elder  Vinegar  (No.  396,)  Sec.  and 
Cayenne  or  minced  Pickles,  Capers,  &c.  This  is  a  piquante 
relish  for  Lobsters,  Crabs,  Cold  fish,  &c. 

Saucb  for  Hashes  of  Mutton,  or  Beef. — (No.  360.) 
See  also  (Nos.  451,  485,)  and  to  make  Plain  Hash 
(No.  486.) 

Unless  you  are  quite  sure  you  perfectly  understand  the 
Palate  of  those  you  are  working  for, — show  those  who  are  to 
eat  the  Hash  this  Receipt y  and  beg  of  them  to  direct  ycu  how 
they  wish  it  seasoned. 

Half  the  number  of  the  ingredients  enumerated  will  be 
more  than  enough, — but  as  it  is  a  Receipt  so  often  wanted, 
we  have  given  variety.     See  also  (No.  486.) 

To  prepare  the  Meaty  see    (No.  484.) 

Chop  the  bones  and  fragments  of  the  joint,  &c.,  and  pit 


OltAVlES  AND  SAt}CESl«  303 

^in  into  k  stewpan,  letnd  cover  them  with  boiling  water» 
six  berries  of  Black  pepper,  the  same  of  Allspice,  a  small 
biindle  of  Parsley,  half  a  head  of  Celery  cut  in  pieces,  and 
a  small  sprig  of  Savory,  or  Lemon-thyme,  or  sweet  Marjo- 
ram ;  cover  up,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  honr. 

Slice  half  an  ounce  of  Onion,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  an  ounce  of  Butter,  fry  it  over  a  sharp  fire  for  about  a 
couple  of  minutes,  till  it  takes  a  little  colour  ;  then  stir  in 
as  much  Flour  as  will  make  it  a  stiff  paste,  and  by  degrees 
mix  with  it  the  gravy  you  have  made  from  the  bones,  &c. ; 
let  it  boil  very  gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  it 
is  the  consistence  of  cream,  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or 
sieve  into  a  basin ;  put  it  back  into  the  stewpan  ;  to  season 
IT,  or  cut  in  a  few  pickled  Onions, — or  Walnuts,— or  a 
couple  of  GherkinSj — and  a  table-spoonful  of  Mushroom 
Catsup,— or  Walnut  or  other  Pickle  Liquor, — or  some 
Capers,  and  Caper  Liquor, — or  a  table-spoonful  of  Ale,  — 
«r  a  little  Shallot,  or  Tarragon  Vinegar ;  cover  the  bottom 
cf  the  dish  with  Sippets  of  Bread,  (that  they  may  become 
savoury  reservoirs  of  Gravy),  which  some  toast  and  cut  into 
triangles. — ^You  may  garnish  it  with  fried  Bread  Sippets 
(No.  319.) 

N^,   To    HASH    MEAT    IN    PERFECTION, — ^it  should  be 

Isud  in  this  Gravy  only  jW6t  long  enough  to  get  properly 
warm  through* 

06*. — If  any  of  the  gravy  that  was  sent  up  with,  or  ran 
from  the  joint  when  it  was  roasted,  be  left,  it  will  be  a  great 
improvement  to  the  Hash. 

if  you  wish  to  make  Mock  Venison, — instead  of  the 
Onion,  put  in  two  or  three  Cloves,  a  table-spoonful  of 
Currant  Jelly,  and  the  same  quantity  of  Claret  or  Port  wine, 
instead  of  the  Catsup. 

Yon  may  make  a  Curry  Hash  by  adding  isome  of 
(No.  455.) 

N»B.  A  pint  of  (No.  329)  is  an  excellent  Gravy,  to 
warm  up  either  Meat  or  Poultry* 

Sauce  for  Hashed  or  Minced  VeaL — (No.  361.) 

See  (Wo.  511.) 

Take  the  bones  of  cold  roast  or  boiled  Veal,  dredge  them 
well  with  flour,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint 


304  ORAVIBS  AND  SA17CB& 

and  a  half  of  broth  or  water,  a  small  OnioDy  a  little  grated 
or  finely  minced  Lemon-peel,  or  the  peel  of  a  quarter  of  a 
small  Lemon,  pared  as  thin  as  possible,  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  blade  of  pounded  Mace ; — tp  Thicken  it,  rub  a 
table-spoonful  of  Flour  into  half  an  ounce  of  Butter  ;  stir  it 
into  the  broth,  and  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  very 
gently  for  about  half  an  hour,  strain  through  a  tammis  or 
sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  put  to  the  veal  to  warm  up,  which 
is  to  be  done  by  placing  the  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  ^n. 
Squeeze  in  half  a  lemon,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
with  toasted  bread  sippets  cut  into  triangles,  and  garnish 
the  dish  with  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon.  See  (Nos.  526  and 
527.) 

Bechamel,  by  English  Cooks  commonly  called  White 

Sauce.— (No.  364.) 

Cut  in  square  pieces  half  an  inch  thick,  two  pounds  of 
lean  Veal,  half  a  pound  of  lean  Ham,  melt  in  a  stewpas 
two  ounces  of  Butter;  when  melted  let  the  whole  simmer 
until  it  is  ready  to  catch  at  the  Bottom  (it  requires  great 
attention,  as  if  it  happen  to  catch  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew'- 
pan,  it  will  spoil  the  look  of  your  Sauce)  ^  then  add  to  it 
three  table-spoonsful  of  flour ;  when  well  mixed,  add  to  it 
three  pints  of  broth  or  water,  pour  a  little  at  a  time,  thait  the 
thickening  be  smooth,  stir  it  until  it  boil,  put  the  stewpan 
on  the  corner  of  the  stove  to  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  sea- 
son it  with  four  cloves,  one  onion,  twelve  pepper-corns,  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  a  fagot  made  of 
parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a  bay-leaf.  Let  the  Sance 
reduce  to  a  quart,  skim  the  fat  off,  and  strain  it  through  t 
tammis  cloth. 

To  make  a  Bechamel  Sauce,  add  to  a  quart  of  the 
above,  a  pint  of  good  cream,  stir  it  until  it  is  reduced  to  a 
good  thkkness ;  a  few  mushrooms  give  a  good  flavour  to 
that  Sauce ;  strain  it  through  a  tammis  cloth. 

Obs. — The  above  was  given  a  French  Artist. 

•/§  more  Economical  Method  of  making  a  PintofWan^ 

Sauce.— (No.  36^,  No.  2.) 

Put  equal  pans  of  broth  and  milk  into  a  stewpan  with  an 
onion  and  a  blade  of  mace,  set  on  the  fire  to  boil  ten 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES.  %5 

minutes,  have  ready  and  rub  together  on  a  plate  an  ounce 
of  Flour  and  Butter,  put  it .  into  the  stewpan,  stir  it  well  till 
it  boils  up,  then  stand  it  near  the  fire  or  stove,  stirring  it 
every  now  and  then  till  it  becomes  quite  smooth,  then 'strain 
it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  put  it  back  into  the  stewpan, 
season  it  with  salt  and  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  beat  up 
the  yolks  of  two  Eggs  well  with  about  three  table-spoonsful 
of  milk,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  your  Sauce,  stir  it 
well  and  keep  it  near  the  fire,  but  be  sure  and  do  not  let  it 
boil,  for  it  will  curdle. 

Obs. — A  convenient  veil  for  boiled  Fowls,  &c.  whose 
complexions  are  not  inviting. 

Mem, — ^With  the  assistance  of  the  Magazine  of  Taste 
(No.  463)  you  may  give  this  Sauce  a  variety  of  flavours. 

Obs. — Bechamkl  implies  a  thick  white  Sauce,  approach- 
ing to  .a  batter, — and  takes  its  name  from  a  wealthy  French 
Marquess,  maUre  d'hdtel  de  Loms  XIV, ^  and  famt)u$  for  his 
patronage  of"  Us  Offiders  de  Bouche,^^ — who  have  immor- 
talized him,  by  calling  by  his  name  this  delicate  composition. 

Most  of  the  French  Sauces  take  their  name  from  the  pei^ 
son  whose  palate  they  first  pleased,  as  "  d  /a  Maintenon  ;*' 
or  firom  some  &mous  Cook  who  invented  them,  as  *^  Sanee 
Robert;'*  '*  d  la  MotUizeur,'*  &c. 

We  have  in  the  English  kitchen,  our  "Argyll"  for 
Giavy,  and  the  little  "  Sandwich  "  monuments  **  «re 
pefisnntW," 

■"  And  thus  Moktbith 


**  Has,  by  one  vessel,  sav*d  his  Name  from  Death.'' 

Kino's  Art  of  Cookery. 

Poivrade  Scmce, —  (No.  365.) 

This,  as  its  title  tells  us,  is  a  Sauce  of  French  extraction. 
The  following  receipt  is  from  "  La  Cuisiniere  Bourgeoises* 
page  408. 

"  Put  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as:  an  egg  into  a  stewpan  with 
two  or  three  (bits  of)  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip,  cut  in  slices, 
two  shallots,  two  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme,  and  basil,  keep 
turning  them  in  the  pan  till  they  get  a  little  colour, — shake 
in  some  flour,  and  add  a  glass  of  red  Wine^  a  glass  of  M;at^» 


306  OBAVIBS  AMD  8AUCE8. 

and  a  spoonftd  of  Vinegar,  and  a  litde  Pepper  and  Salt,  bc»i 
half  an  hour,  skim  and  strain  it." 

Mustard  in  a  Minute.'^(So.  369.) 

Mix  very  gradually,  and  rub  together  in  a  mortar,  an 
ounce  of  flour  of  Mustard,  with  three  table-spoonsful  of' 
'Wk,  (cream  is  better),  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Sadt,  and  the 
same  of  sugar,  rub  them  well  together  till  quite  smooth. 

Obs, — Mustard  made  in  this  manner,  is  not  at  all  bitter, 
and  is  therefore  instantly  ready  for  the  table. 

N.B.  It  has  been  said  that  Flour  of  Mustard  is  sometimes 
adulterated  with  common  flour,  &c.  &c. 

llie  Mustard  sold  at  ApothegariesVHall,  is  excel- 
lent, where  may  also  be  had  all  sorts  of  Pspfers,  Spices, 
&c«  of  the  best  quality,  and  very  finely  powdered. 

Mustard. — (No.  370.) 

Mix  (by  degrees,  by  rubbing  together  in  a  mortar)  the 
best  Durham  flour  of  Mustard,  with  vinegar — ^white  wine— 
or  cold  water,  in  which  scraped  Horseradish  has  been  boiled, 
nib  it  weU  together  for  at  least  Ten  minutes,  till  it  if  per- 
fectly smooth ;  it  will  keep  in  a  stone  jar  closely  stopped,  for 
a  fortnight  ^--'Only  put  as  much  into  the  Mustard  pot  as  will 
be  used  in  a  day  or  two. 

The  Ready  made  Mustard,  prqiared  at  the  oil  shops, 
is  mixed  with  about  one-fourth  part  salt :  this  is  done  to 
preserve  it,  if  it  is  to  be  kept  long ;  otherwise,  by  all  means 
omit  it — The  best  way  of  eating  Salt,  is  in  substance. 
*»*  See  also  ReJpe  (No.  427.) 

Obs. — ^Mustard  is  the  best  of  all  the  stimulants  that  are 
employed  to  give  energy  to  the  Digestive  organs. — It  was 
in  high  favour  with  our  Forefethers  in  the  ^forthumberland 
Household  Book  for  1512,  p.  18,  is  an  order  for  an  annual 
supply  of  160  gallons  of  Mustard. 

Some  opulent  Epicures  mix  it  with  Sherry  or  Madeira 
wine,  or  distilled,  or  flavoured  Vinegar,  instead  of  Horse- 
radish water. 

The  French  flavour  their  Mustard  with  Champagne  and 
Other  Wines,— or  with  Vinegar  flavoured  with  Capers, — 
Anchovies,— Tarragon,— Elder,— Basil,— Burnet,— Garlick,— 


OBAVlEd  AND  SAUCBS^  307 

Shallot,-«.Qr  Celery^-— see  (Nos.  395  to  No.  402;)  wanning 
it  with  Cayenne,  or  the  vajrious  Spices ;— Sweet, — Savoury, 
— ^fine  Herbs,— Truffles, — Catsup, — &c.  &c.  and  seem  to  cont- 
stder  Mustard  merely  as  a  vehicle  of  flavours. 

N.  B.  In  Moxa.  Maille  et  Aclocque*s  catalogue  of 
Parisian  *^  Boi^  Boiuff^  there  is  a  list  of  28  differently  fla^ 
voured  Mustards, 

Salt.— (No.  371.) 

Is  (^^aliortim  condimentorum  Condimenium^^^  as  Plutarch 
calls  it))  Sauce  for  Sauce. 

Common  Salt^  is  more  relishing  than  Basket  Salt;— it 
should  be  prepared  for  the  Table,  by  drying  it  in  a  Ihiteh 
oven  before  the  fire :  then  put  it  on  a  clean  paper,  and  roH 
it  with  a  rolling-pin  ; — ^if  you  pound  it  in  a  Mortar  till  it  k 
quite  fine,  it  will  look  as  well  as  Basket  Salt.  Malden  Salt 
is  still  more  piquante. 

*»*  Select  for  tahk  use  the  Lumps  of  Salt. 

Ohs, — ^Your  Salt  Box  must  have  a  close  cover,  and  be  kept 
in  a  dry  place. 

SAUkSy  Mixture.— (No.  372.)    See  aUo  (No,  138*)  and 

(No.  453.) 

Endeavour  to  have  your  Slalad  Herbs  as  fresh  as  possible ; 
if  you  suspect  they  are  not  **  morning  gathered,''^  they  will 
be  much  refreshed  by  lying  an  hour  or  two  in  spring  water ; 
then  carefully  wash  and  pick  them,  and  trim  off  all  the  worm- 
eaten,  slimy,  cankered,  dry  leaves,  and  after  washing,  let 
theipci  remain  a  while  in  the  cullender  to  drain ;  lastly,  swing 
them  gently  in  a  clean  napkin ; — when  properly  picked  and 
cut,  arrange  them  in  the  Salad  Dish, — mix  the  Sauce  in  a 
Soup  plate,  and  put  it  into  an  Ingredient  Bottle,*  or  pour  it 
down  the  side  of  the  Salad  Dish, — and  don't  stir  it  up  tiil 
the  mouths  are  ready  for  it. 


*  These  are  sold  at  the  Glass-shops^  under  the  name  of  Incorpora- 
tors,—-we  recommend  the  sauce  to  be  mixed  in  these^  and  the  Com- 
pany can  then  take  it,  or  leave  it,  as  they  like. 


308  GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

If  the  Herbs  be  young, — fresh  gathered,— trimmed  neatly, 
and  drained  dry, — and  the  Sauce-maker  ponders  patiently 
over  the  following  directions, — ^he  cannot  fail  obtaining  the 
fieune  of  being  a  very  accomplished  Salad-dresser. 

Boil  a  couple  of  Eggs  for  twelve  minutes,  and  put  them  in 
a  basin  of  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes, — the  Yolks  mua  he 
quite  cold  and  hard^  cer  they  will  not  incorporate  with  the  t»- 
gredients.  Rub  them  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  mix  them  with  a  table-spoonful  of  Water,  or  fine  double 
Cream,  then  add  two  table-spoonsful  of  Oil  or  melted  Butter; 
when  these  are  well  mixed,  add  by  degrees,  a  tea-spoonfiil 
of  Salt,  or  powdered  lump  Sugar,  and  the  same  of  made 
Mustard  ;  when  these  are  smoothly  united,  add  very  gradually 
three  table-spoonsful  of  Vinegar,  rub  it  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients till  thoroughly  incorporated  with  them ;  cut  up  the 
white  of  the  egg,  and  garnish  the  top  of  the  salad  with  it. 
Let  the  Sauce  remain  at  the  bottom  of  the  Bowl,  and  do  not 
stir  up  the  Salad  till  it  is  to  be  eaten ; — ^we  recommend  the 
esters  to  be  mindful  of  the  duty  of  mastication, — without  the 
due  performance  of  which,  all  undressed  Vegetables  aretrour 
blesome  company  for  the  principal  viscera,  and  some  are  efen 
dangerously  indigestible. 

Boiled  Salad. 

This  is  best  compounded  of  boiled  or  baked  Onions,  (if 
Portugal  the  belter,)  some  baked  Beet-root,  Cauliflower  or 
Brocoli,  and  boiled  Celery  and  French  Beans,  or  any  of  these 
articles,  with  the  common  Salad  dressing ;  added  to  this,  to 
give  it  an  enticing  appearance,  and  to  give  some  of  the  crisp- 
ness  and  freshness  so  pleasant  in  salad,  a  small  quantity  of 
raw  Endive,  or  Lettuce  and  Chervil,  or  Burnet,  strewed  on 
the  top :  this  is  by  far  more  wholesome  than  the  Raw  Salad) 
and  is  much  eaten  when  put  on  the  table. 

N.  B.  The  above  Sauce  is  equally  good  with  cold  Meat,— 
cold  Fish— or  for  Cucumbers, — Celery, — Radishes,  &c.  (awi 
all  the  other  Vegetables  that  are  sent  to  table  undressed) ;  to 
the  above,  a  little  minced  Onion  is  gei^erally  an  acceptable 
addition. 

C^ — Salad  is  a  very  compound  dish  with  our  neighboan 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES.  309 

iht  French,  who  always  add  to  the  mixture  above,  Bfack  Pep- 
per, and  sometimes  Savoury.  Spice. 

The  Italians  mince  the  white  meat  of  Chickens  into  this 
sauce. 

The  Dutch,  cold  boiled  Turbot,  or  Lobster ;  or  add  to  it  a 
spoonful  of  grated  Parmesan  or  old  Cheshire  cheese,  or  mince 
very  fine  a  little  Tarragon, — or  Chervil, — Burnet,— -or  young 
Onion, — ^Celery, — or  pickled  Gherkins,  &c. 

Joan  Cromwell's  Grand  Salad  was  composed  of  equal 
parts  of  Almonds,  Raisins,  Capers,  Pickled  Cucumbers, 
Shrimps,  and  boiled  Turnips. 

This  mixture  is  sometimes  made  with  cream,  oiled  butter, 
see  (No.  260*),  or  some  good  Jelly  of  meat,   (which  many 

S refer  to  the  finest  Florence  oil,)  and  flavoured  with  Salad 
[ixture  (No.  453),  Basil  (No.  397),  or  Cress  or  Celery  Vine- 
gar (No.  397*),  Horseradish  Vinegar  (No.  399*),  Cucumber 
Vinegar  (No.  399),  andObs.  to  (No.  116)  of  the  Appendix, 
Tarragon,  or  Elder  Vinegar ;  essence  of  Celery  (No.  409), 
Walnut  or  Lemon  Pickle,  or  a  slice  of  Lemon  cut  into  dice, 
essence  of  Anchovy  (No,  433.) 

FORCEMEAT  STUFFINGS.— (No.  373.) 

Forcemeat  is  now  considered  an  indispensable  accompani- 
ment to  most  Made  Dishes,  and  when  composed  with  good 
taste,  gives  additional  spirit  and  relish  to  even  that  "  Sove- 
reign of  Savouriness,*'  Turtle  Soup. 

It  is  also  sent  up  in  Patties,  and  for  stuffing  of  Veal,  Game, 
Poultry,  &c. 

The  ingrelients  should  be  so  proportioned,  that  no  one 
flavour  predominates. 

To  give  the  same  stuffing  for  Veal — ^Hare,  &c.  argues  a 
poverty  of  Invention — with  a  little  contrivance,  you  may  make 
as  great  a  variety  as  you  have  Dishes. 

I  have  given  Receipts  for  some  of  the  most  favourite  com- 
positions, and  a  Table  of  Materials,  a  glance  at  which  will 
enable  the  ingenious  Cook  to  make  an  infinite  variety  of  com- 
binations :  the  First  column  containing  the  spirit,  the  Second 
the  substance  of  them. 

The  poignancy  of  Forcemeat  should  be  proportioned  to  the 
«avourines3  of  the  viands,  to  which  it  is  intended  to  give  an 


310  GRAVIB8  AND  SAUCES. 

additional  Zest  Some  dishes  require  a  very  delicately  fla- 
TOured  forcemeat, — for  others,  it  most  be  full  and  high  sea- 
soned. What  would  be  piqtiante  in  a  Turkey, — ^woukt  be 
imipid  with  Turtle. 

Tastes  are  so  different, — and  the  praise  the  Cook  receives 
will  depend  so  much  on  her  pleasing  the  palate  of  those  she 
woiiLS  tor,  that  all  her  sagacity  must  be  on  the  alert,  to  {nt>- 
duce  the  flavours  to  which  her  employers  are  partiaU  See 
pBSces  4^  and  46. 

Most  people  have  an  acquired,  and  peculiar  taste  in  stuff- 
ings, &c.,  and  what  exactly  pleases  one,  seldom  is  precisdy 
what  another  considers  the  most  agreeable :  and  after  all  the 
cotitrivance  of  a  pains-taking  palatician,  to  combine  her  **haiiis 
foto"  in  the  most  hamlonious  proportions, 

<<  The  very  dish  one  likes  the  best, 
Is  acid,  or 'insipid,  to  tiie  rest." 

Custom  is  all  in  all,  in  mattersof  Taste,—- it  is  not  that  one 
pecBon  is  naturally  fond  of  this  or  that,  and  another  natuia% 
averse  to  it, — ^but  that  one  is  used  to  it,  and  another  is  nol. 

The  consistency  of  Forcemeats  is  rather  a  difficult  thing 
to  manage ;  they  are  almost  always  either  too  light  or  too 
heavy. 

Take  care  to  pound  it  till  perfectly  smooth^  and  thai  dl 
lAe  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incorporated. 

Forcemeat  balls  must  not  be  larger  than  a  small  Nutmegs 
-^f  they  are  for  Brown  Sauce^  flour  them  and  fry  them  ;— 
if  for  JVhiie^  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for 
three  minutes ;  the  latter  are  by  fiair  the  most  delicate. 

N.  B.  If  not  of  sufficient  stiffness,  it  falls  to  pieces,  and 
■nikes  Soup,  &c.  grouty  and  very  unsightly. 

SwBETBREADS  and  Tongues  are  the  favourite  mattriab 
for  forcemeat 


STUFFINGS. 


311 


MA,TEltIALS  USED  FOR   FoRCEMEAT,    STUFFINGS,    &C. 


Spirit. 


e-: 


> 


I 


CbmiiMkii  Thyme.    \ 
I«emon  Thyme*  ^ 

Orange  Thyme. 
Street  Maijoram. 
Sammer  and 
Winter  Savory. 
8k^e. 
TarraftoD  (No.  396.) 

Chervil. 
BometCNo.  399.) 

Basil  (No.  397.) 

Bay-leaf. 

iVoflles  and  . 

Morells.  /     ^     ^ 

Musbroom  Powder  (No;  439.) 

Leeks. 

Onions. 

K8haIlot(No.402.) 

Gariick. 

Lemou  Peel,  see  (Nos.  407  and  408.) 

Shrimps  (No.  1/5.) 

Prawn-". 

Crabs. 

Lobsters  (Nos.  176  and  178.) 

Oysters. 

Anchovy  (No.  433.) 

I>ressea  Tomouk.    Se«  N.  B.  te  (No. 

373.) 
Ham. 
Baeoa. 

Black  or  White  Pepper. 
Allspice. 


SiTBSTAirCBS. 

Flour. 

Crumbs  of  Bread. 

Parsley.    See  N.  B.  to  (No.  261.^ 

Spinach. 

Boiled  Onion. 

Mashed  Potatoes  (No.  106.) 

Tolks  of  Hard  Eggs  (No.  574.) 

Mutton. 

Beef. 

Veal  Suet,*  or  Marrow. 

Calf  s  Udder,  or  Brains. 

Parboiled  SwBBTBaii^o. 

Veal  minced  and  pounded,  and 

Potted  Meats,  &c.  (No.  503.) 


Cinnamon. 

Ginger. 

NatnMgs. 

Cloves. 

Capers     and     Pickles,    (minced    or 

pounded.) 
Savoorv  Powder  (No.  465.) 
Soup  Herb  Powder  (No.  467.) 
Carry  Powder  (No.  455.) 
Cayenne  (No.  404.) 
Zeet'<No.256.> 

For  Liquids^  you  have  Meat  Gravy,  Lemon  Juice,  Sy^up 
of  Lemons  (Nos.  391  and  477),  Essence  of  Anchovy,  see 
(No.  433),  the  various  Vegetable  Essences,  see  (No.  407), 
and  Mushroom  Catsup  (No,  439),  and  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  Eggsr— Wines, — and  the  Essence  of  Spices. 

^  If  yoa  have  no  Suet, — the  best  substitute  for  it  is  about  one-third 
part  the  quantity  of  Butter, 


312  FORGEM15ATS. 

Stuffing  for  Veal,  Roast  Turkey,  Fowl,  ^c (No.  374.) 

Mince  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Beef  Suet,  (Beef  Marrow 
is  better),  the  same  weight  of  Bread  Crumbs,  two  drachms 
of  Parsley  leaves,  a  drathm  and  a  half  of  sweet  Marjoram 
(or  Lemon-thyme),  and  the  same  of  grated  Lemon-peel,  aod 
Onion  chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt: 
—pound  thoroughly  together  with  the  yolk  and  white  of  two 
Eggs,  and  secure  it  in  the  Veal  with  a  skewer,  or  sew  it  in 
with  a  oit  oif  thread. 

Make  some  of  it  into  Balls  or  Sausages,  flour  them,  dnd 
boil,  or  fry  them,  and  send  them  up  as  a  garnish,  or  in  a 
side  dish,  with  roast  Poultry,  Veal,  or  Cyitlets,  &c. 

N.  B.  This  is  about  the  quantity  for  a  Turkey  Poult; 
a  very  large  Turkey  will  take  nearly  twice  as  much.  To  the 
above  may  be  added  an  ounce  of  dressed  Ham,— or  use 
equal  parts  of  the  above  Stuffing,  and  Pork  Sausage  Meat 
(No.  87),  pounded  well  together. 

Obs, — Good  Stuffing  has  always  been  considered  a  chef' 
d'oBuvre  in  Cookery ;  it  has  given  immortality  to 

"  Poor  Roger  Fowler,  who'd  a  generous  miod, 
Nor  would  submit  to  have  his  hand  confined. 
But  aimed  at  all, — ^yet  never  could  excil 
In  any  thing  but  stuffing  of  his  Veal.'' 

Kuio's  Art  of  Cookery,  p.  113. 

Veal  Forcemeat. — (No.  375.) 

Of  undressed  lean  Veal,  (after  you  have  scraped  it  quite 
fine,  and  free  from  skin  and  sinews),  two  ounces,  the  same 
quantity  of  (Beef  or  Veal)  Suet,  and  the  same  of  Bread 
Crumbs,  chop  fine  two  drachms  of  Parsley,  one  of  Lemon- 
peel,  one  of  Sweet  Herbs,  one  of  Onion,  and  half  a  drachm 
of  Mace,  or  Allspice,  (beaten  to  fine  powder);  pound  all 
together  in  a  mortar,  break  into  it  the  yolk  and  white  of  an 
Eg» ; — rub  it  all  up  well  together,  and  season  it  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt. 

Ohs. — This  may  be  made  more  savoury,  by  the  addition 
of  cold  boiled  pickled  Tongue,  Anchovy,  Eshallot,  Cayenne, 
or  Curry  powder,  &c. 


STUFFINGS.  313  . 

Stuffing  for  Turkeys  or  Fowls,  8fc, — (No.  377.) 

Take  the  foregoing  composition  for  the  Roast  Turkey, — 
or  Stdd  the  soft  part  of  a  dozen  Oysters  to  it, — an  Anchovy, 
—or  a  little  grated  Ham,  or  Tongue,  if  you  like  it,  is  still 
more  relishing.  Fill  the  craw  of  the  Fowl,  &c.  but  do  not 
cram  it  so  as  to  disfigure  its  shape. 

.  Pork  Sausage  Meat  is  sometimes  used  to  stuff  Turkeys, 
and  Fowls, — or  fri^ed,  and  sent  up  as  a  Garnish. 

Goose'or  Duck  Stuffing. --^(So.  378.) 

Chop  very  fine  about  two  ounces  of  Onion,— of  green 
Sage  leaves  about  an  ounce,  (both  unboiled),  four  ounces  of 
Bread  Crumbs,  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a  walnut,  &c., 
the  yolk  and  white  of  an  Egg,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt; 
some  add  to  this  a  minced  Apple. 

For  another,  spe  Roasted  Goose  and  Duck  (Nos.  59  and 
61),  which  latter  we  like  as  Forcemeat  Balls  for  Mock  Turtle; 
then  add  a  little  Lemon-peel,  and  warm  it  with  Cayenne. 

Stuffing  for  Har€.-'{^o.  379.) 

Two  ounces  of  Beef  Suet  chopped  fine, — ^three  ounces  of 
fine  Bread  Crumbs, — Parsley,  a  drachm.  Shallot,  half  a 
drachm, — a  drachm  of  Marjoram,  Lemon-Thyme,  or  Winter 
Savory, — a  drachm  of  grated  Lemon-peel, — and  the  same  of 
Pepper  and  Salt ; — mix  these  with  the  white  and  yolk  of  an 
Egg, — do  not  make  it  thin, — it  must  be  of  cohesive  con - 
astence,— if  your  Stuflfing  is  not  stiff  enough,  it  will  be  good 
for  nothing,-:— put  it  in  the  hare,  and  sew  it  up. 

*4^*  If  the  Liver  is  quite  sound,  you  may  parboil  it,  and 
mince  it  very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Forcemeat  Balls  for  Turtle^  Mock  Turtle,  or  Made 
Dishes.— (^o.  380.)     See  also  (No.  375.) 

Pound  some  Veal  in  a  marble  mortar,  rub  it  through  a 
sieve  with  as  much  of  the  udder  as  you  have  Veal,  or  about 
a  third  the  quantity  of  Butter: — put  some  Bread- Crumbs 
into  a  stewpan,  moisten  them  with  milk,  add  a  little  chopped 
Parsley  and  ShaUot,  rub  them  well  tc^ether  in  a  mortar,  till 
they  form  a  smooth  paste ;  put  it  through  a  sieve,  and  when 


314  FORCEMEATS. 

cold,  pound,  and  mix  all  together,  with  the  yolks  of  three 
Eggs  hoiled  hard;  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  Curry 
powder,  or  Cayenne,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw  Eggs^ 
ruh  it  well  together,  and  make  small  balls :  ten  minutes  be- 
fore your  Soup  is  ready,  put  them  in. 

Egg  Ba//«.— (No.  381,) 

Boil  four  Eggs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  them  into  cokl 
water, — when  they  are  quite  cold,  put  the  yolks  into  a 
mortar  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  e^,  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour, 
same  of  chopped  parsley,  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  o^  a 
shilling,  and  a  little  black  pepper,  or  Cayenne,  rub  them 
well  together,  roll  them  into  small  Balls,  (as  they  swell  in 
boiHng), — boil  them  a  couple  of  minutes. 

Brain  Bails. 

See  (No.  247),  or  beat  up  the  brains  of  a  Calf  in  the  way 
we  have  above  directed  the  E^. 

Curry  Balls  for  Mock  Turtle,  Veal,  Poultry y  Made 
Dishes,  ^c— (.No.  3S2.)    . 

Are  made  with  Bread-crumbs,  the  yolk  of  an  Egg  boiled 
hard,  and  a  bit  of  fresh  Butter  about  half  as  big,  beaten 
together  in  a  mortar,  and  seasoned  with  Curry  powder,  see 
(No.  455)  ;  make  and  prepare  small  Balls,  as  directed  in 
(No.  381.) 

Fish  Forcemeat.— i^p.  383.) 

Take  two  ounces  of  either  Turbot,  Sole,  Lobster,  Shrimps, 
or  Oysters,  free  from  skin,  put  it  in  a  mortar,  with  two 
ounces  of  fresh  Butter,  one  ounce  of  Bread  crumbs,  the  yolk 
of  two  Eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  little  Eshall(»t,  grated  Lemon- 
peel,  and  Parsley,  minced  very  fine;  then  pound  it  well  till 
it  is  thoroughly  mixed  aiid  quite  smooth ;  season  it  with 
salt  and  Cayenne  to  your  taste,  break  in  the  yolk  and  white 
of  one  Egg,  rub  it  well  toi^ether,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Oysters  parboiled  and  minced  fine,  and  an  Anchovy^  may  be 
added. 

Zest  Balls.— (^o.  386.)— See  (No.  255.) 

Prepared  in  the  same  way  as  (No.  381.) 


I 


STORB  SAOCBS.  315 

\ 

Orange  or  Lemon  Peel,  to  mix  with  Stuffing, — (No.  387.) 

Peel  a  Seville  Orange,  or  Lemon,  very  thin,  taking  off 
only  the  fine  yellow  rind,  (without  any  of  the  whifej)  pound 
it  in  a  mortar  with  a  bit  of  lump  sugar,  rub  it  well  with  the 
peel, — ^by  degrees  add  a  little  of  the  forcemeat  it  is  to  be 
mixed  with ;  when  it  is  well  ground  and  blended  with  this, 
mix  it  with  the  wliole  :  there  is  no  other  way  of  incorpo- 
rating it  so  well. 

Forcemeats,  &c.  are  frequently  spoiled  by  the  insufficient 
mixing  of  the  ingredients. 

Clouted  or  Clotted  Cream.— (No.  388.) 

The  milk  which  is  put  into  the  pans  one  morning  stands 
till  the  next;  then  set  the  pan  on  a  hot  hearth,  (or  in  a 
Copper  Tray,  *  half  full  of  water, — put  this  over  a  stove) ; 
in  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  quantity  of 
the  milk  and  the  size  of  the  pan,  it  will  be  enough, — the 
sign  of  which  is,  that  bladders  rise  on  its  surface ;  this  de- 
notes that  it  is  near  boiling,  which  it  must  by  no  means  do ; 
and  it  must  be  instantly  removed  from  the  fire,  and  placed 
in  the  dairy  till  the  next  morning,  when  the  fine  cream  is 
thrown  up,  and  is  ready  for  the  table,  or  for  Butter,  into 
which  it  is  soon  converted  by  stirring  it  with  the  hand. 

N.  B.  This  Receipt  we  have  not  proved. 

Raspberry  Vinegar, — (No.  390.) 

The  best  way  to  make  this,  is  to  pour  three  pints  of  the 
best  white  wine  Vinegar  on  a  pint  and  a  half  of  fresh- 
gathered  Red  Raspberries  in  a  stone  Jar,  or  China  bowl, 
f  neither  glazed  earthenware^  nor  any  metallic  vessel,  must  be 
usfid;)  the  next  day  strain  the  liquor  over  a  like  quantity  of 
fresh  Raspberries ;  and  the  day  following  do  the  same.  Then 
drain  off  the  liquor  without  pressing,  and  pass  it  through  a 
Jelly  Bag  (previously  wetted  with  plain  Vinegar)  into  a  stone 
Jar,  with  a  pound  of  pounded  lump  Sugar  to  each*  pint. 
When  the  Sugar  is  dissolved,  stir  it  up,  cover  down  the  Jar, 
and  set  it  in  a  saucepan  of  w^ter,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  an 
hour,  taking  off  the  scum ;  add  to  each  pint  a  glass  of 


» <t 


*  A  Baine'^XMrie,    See  Note  to  (No.  485.) 

p2 


316  STORE  SAI7CE8. 

Braudy,  and  bottle  it :  mixed  in  about  eight  parts  of  water, 
it  is  a  very  refreshing  and  delightful  Suminer  drink.  An 
excellent  cooling  beverage  to  assuage  thirst  in  ardoit  fevers, 
colds,  and  inflammatory  complaints,  &Cm  and  is  agreeable  to 
most  palates. 

See  (No.  A79\) 

N.  B.  We  have  not  proved  this  receipt. 

Syrup  of  Lemons, — (No.  391.) 

The  best  Season  for  Lemons,  is  from  November  to  March* 
— Put  a  pint  of  fresh  Lemon  juice  to  a  poimd  and  three- 
quarters  of  Lump  Sugar;  dissolve  it  by  a  gentle  heat,  scum 
it  till  the  surface  is  quiie  clear, — add  an  ounce  of  thin  cut 
Lemon  Peel ;  let  them  simmer  fvery  gently  J  together  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  run  it  through  a  flannel.  When  cold, 
bottle  and  cork  it  closely,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Or, 

.  Dissolve  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  (AvoirdupoUJ  of  Citric, 
t.  €.  crystallized  Lemon-acid,  in  a  pint  of  Clarified  Syrup 
(No.  475),  flavour  it  with  the  Peel,  with  (No.  408),  or  dis- 
solve the  acid  in  equal  parts  of  Simple  Syrup  (No.  475),  and 
Syrup  of  Lemon  Peel,  made  as  (No.  393.) 

The  Justice's  Orange  Syrup,  for  Punch  or  Puddings, 

(No.  392.) 

Squeeze  the  Orancres,  and  strain  the  juice  from  the  pulp 
into  a  large  pot ;  boil  it  up  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine 
Sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice ;  skim  it  well,  let  it  stand  till 
*  cold,  and  then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well. 

Obs. — ^This  makes  a  fine,  soft,  mellow-flavoured  Punch; 
and,  added  to  melted  butter,  is  a  good  relish  to  Puddings.   ^ 

Syrup  of  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel. — (No.  393.) 

Of  fresh  outer  rind  of  Seville  orange  or  Lemon-peel,  three 
ounces,  apothecaries'  weight ;  boiling  water,  a  pint  and  a 
lialf ;  infuse  them  for  a  night  in  a  close  ve§sel;  then  strain 
the  liquor ;  let  jt  stand  to  setthe ;  and  having  poured  it  off 
clear  from  the  sediment,  dissolve  it  in  two  pounds  of  double 
refined  loaf  sugar,  and  make  it  into  a  syrup  with  a  gentk 
heat 


STORE  SAUC£S.  317 

0^5.— In  making  this  syrup,  if  the  sugar  be  dissolved  in 

.the  i  nfusion  with  as  gentle  a  heat  as  possible,  to  prevent  the 

exhalation  of  the  volatile  parts  of  the  Peel,  this  syrup  will 

possess  a  great  share  of  the  fine  favour  of  the  orange,  or 

leraon-peel. 

Vinegar  for  Salads. — (No.  395.) 

**  Take  of  Tarragon, — Savory, — Chives, — Eshallots,  three 
ounces  each, — ^a  handful  of  the  tops  of  Mint  and  Balni,^all 
dry  and  pounded ;  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  Bottle,  with  a 
gallon  of  best  Vinegar ;  cork  it  close,  set  it  in  the  Sun,  and 
in  a  fortnight  strain  off,  and  squeeze  the  herbs,  let  it  stand  a 
day  to  settle,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  filtering  Bag.*' — 
From  Parmentier's  t^^rt  de  Faire  les  Vinaigresl  8vo. 
1805,  p.  205. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. — (No.  396.) 

•  This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  Soups j  Salad  Sauce 
(No.  455,)  and  to  mix  Mustard  (No.  370.)  Fill  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle  with  fresh-gathered  Tarragon  leaves,  i.  e. 
between  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas,  (which  should  be 
gathered  on  a  dry  day,  just  before  it  flowers,)  and  pick  the 
leaves  off  the  stalks,  and  dry  them  a  little  before  the  fire ; 
cover  them  with  the  best  Vinegar,  let  them  steep  fourteen 
days,  then  strain  through  a  flannel  Jelly  Bag  till  it  is  fine, 
then  pour  it  into  half-pint  bottles ;  cork  them  carefully,  and 
keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

Obs. — ^You  may  prepare  E'der-flowers  and  Herl^s  in  the 
same  manner ;  Elder  and  Tarragon  are  those  in  most  general 
use  in  this  country. 

'  Our  neighbours,  the  French,  prepare  Vinegars  flavoured 
with  Celery, — Cucumbers,— Capsicums, — Garlick, — Eshal- 
lot, — Onion, — Capers, — Chervil, — Cress-seed, — Burner — 
Truffles, — Seville  Orange  Peel,— Ginger,  &c. ;  in  short,  they 
impregnate  them  with  almost  every  Herb,— Fruit, — ^Flower, 
—and  Spice  separately,  and  in  innumerable  combinations. 

Messrs.  Maille  et  Acloque,  Vinaigriers  a  Paris^  sell 
65  sorts  of  variously  flavoured  Vinegars,  and  28  different 
sorts  of  Mustard. 


318  STORE  SAUCES. 

Basil  Fmegar  &r  Jftnc.— (No.  397.) 

Sweet  Basil  is  in  full  perfection  about  the  middle  of 
August.  Fill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  the  fresk  green 
leaves  of  Basil,  (these'give  much  iiner  and  more  flavour  than 
the  dried,)  and  cover  them  with  Vinegar— or  Wine, — and  let 
them  steep  for  ten  days ;  if  you  ivish  a  very  strong  Essence, 
strain  the  liquor,  put  it  on  some  fresh  leaves,  and  let  them 
steep  fourteen  days  more. 

Obs, — ^This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  Sauces, — 
Soups, — and  to  the  mixture  usually  made  for  Salads,  see 
(No.  372,)  and  (No.  453.) 

It  is  a  secret  the  makers  of  Mock  Turtle  may  thank  us 
for  telling ;  a  table-spoonful  put  in  when  the  Soup  is  finished, 
will  impregnate  a  tureen  of  soup,  with  the  Basil,  and  Acid 
flavours,  at  very  small  costs,  when  fresh  Basil  and  Lemons 
are  extrayagantly  dear. 

The  flavour  of  the  other  Sweet  and  Savoury  Herbs, — 
Celery,  &c.  may  be  procured,  and  preserved  in  the  same 
manner.  See  (No.  409,)  or  (No.  417,)  by  infusing  them  in 
wine — or  vinegar. 

Cress  Ftn<?^ar.— (No.  397*.) 

Dry  and  pound  half  an  ounce  of  Cress  Seed,  (such  as  is 
sown  in  the  garden  with  Mustard,)  pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  the 
best  Vinegar,  let  it  steep  ten  days,  shaking  it  up  every  day. 

Ohs, — This  is  very  strongly  flavoured  with  Cress,-Umd 
for  Salads,  and  Cold  Meats,  kc.  it  is  a  great  favourite  with 
xnany ; — the  Quart  of  Sauce  costs  only  a  Ualf^penny  more 
than  the  Vinegar, 

Celery  Vinegar  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 

The  Crystal  Vinegar  (No.  407*,)  which  is,  we  believe,  the 
PyroUgneotLS  Acidy  is  the  best  for  receiving  flavours, — having 
scarcely  any  of  its  own. 

Green  Mint  Fin^jrar— <No.  398.) 

Is  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner,  and  with  the  same 
proportions,  as  in  (No.  397.) 

Obs. — In  the  early  season  of  Housed-Lamb,  Green  Mint 
is  sometimes  not  to  be  got ;  the  above  is  then  a  welcome 
substitnte. 


FLAVQirftl^O  ESSENCES.  319 

Burnei  or  Cucumber  Vinegar, — (No.  399.) 

This  TS  made  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  directed  in 
(No.  397.)  The  flavour  of  Burnet  resembles  Cucumber  so 
exactly,  that  when  infused  in  Vin^r,  the  nicest  palate  would 
pronounce  it  to  be  Cucumber. 

Obs. — ^This  is  a  very  favourite  relish  with  Cold  Meat, 
Salads,  &c. 

Burnet  is  in  hest  season  from  Midsummer  to  Michaelmas. 

Horseradish  Vinegar. — (No.  399*.) 

Horseradish  is  in  highest  perfection  ahout  November* 

Pour  a  quart  of  best  Vin^r  on  three  ounces  of  scraped 
Horseradish,  an  ounce  of  minced  Eshallot,  and  one  dracnm 
of  Cayenne ;  let  it  stand  a  week,  and  you  will  have  an  ex- 
cellent relish  for  Cold  Beef,  Salads,  &c.  costing  scarcely  any 
thing, 

N.  B.  A  portion  of  Black  Pepper  and  Mustard,  Celti^ry  or 
Cress-seed,  onay  be  added  to  the  above. 

06#.— Horseradish  Powder  (No.  458*.) 

Garlick  Vinegar. — (No.  400.) 

Garlick  is  ready  for  this  purpose  from  Midsummer  to 
Michaelmas. 

Peel  and  chop  two  ounces  of  Garlick,  pour  on  them  a 
quart  of  white-wine  Vinegar,  stop  the  jar  close,  and  let  it 
steep  ten  days,  shaking  it  well  every  day ;  •  then  pour  off  the 
clear  liquor  into  small  bottles. 

Obs. — The  Cook  must  be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  of 
this : — a  few  drops  of  it  will  give  a  pint  of  Gravy  a  sufficient 
smack  of  the  Garlick :  the  flavour  of  which,  when  slight, 
and  well  blended,  is  one  of  the  finest  we  have ; — ^when^used 
in  excess,  it  is  the  most  offensive. 

The  best  way  to  use  Garlick,  is  to  send  up  some  of  this 
Vinegar  in  a  Cruet,  and  let  the  company  flavour  their  own 
Sauce  as  they  like. 

N.  B.  The  most  elegant  preparation  of  the  Onion  Tribe, 
is  the  EsHALLOT  WiNB,  (No.  402.) 

EshaUa  Vinegar— Q^o.  401.) 
Is  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  Cook  should  never 


320  STORE  SAUCES. 

be  without  one  of  these  useful  auxiliaries ;  they  cost  scarcely 
any  thing  but  the  little  trouble  of  making, — and  will  save-a 
great  deal  of  trouble  in  flavouring  Soups  and  Sauces  with  a 
taste  of  Onion. 

N.  B.  Eshallots  are  in  high  perfection  during  July, 
August,  and  September. 

EsH ALLOT  Wine. — (No.  402.)    . 

Peel,  mince,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  three  ounces  of  Eshal- 
lots, and  infuse  them  in  a  pint  of  Sherry  for  ten  days, — ^then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor  on  three  ounces  more  Shallots,  and 
let  the  wine  stand  on  them  ten  days  longer. 

Obs. — This  is  rather  the  most  expensive,  but  infinitely 
the  most  elegant  preparation  q/*  Esha'llot,  and  imparts  the 
Onion  flavour  to  Soups  and  Sauces,  for  Chops,  Steaks,  or 
boiled  Meats,  Hashes,  &c.  more  agreeably  than  any :  it  does 
not  leave  any  unpleasant  taste  in  l£e  mouth, 'or  to  the  bieatfa, 
nor  repeat y  as  almost  all  other  preparations  of  Garlick, 
Onion,*  &c.  do. 

N.  B.  An  ounce  of  scraped  Horseradish  may  be  added  to 
the  above,  and  a  little  thin  cut  Lemon  Peel,  or  a  few  drops 
of  (No.  408.) 

Camp  Vinegar, — (No.  403.) 

Cayenne  Pepper,  one  drachm,  avoirdupois  weight. 
,  Soy,  two  table-spoonsful. 

Walnut  Catsup,  four  ditto. 

Six  Anchovies  chopped. 

A  small  clove  of  Garlick,  minced  fine. 

Steep  all  for  a  month  in  a  pint  of  the  best  Vinegar,  fre- 
quently shaking  the  bottle:  strain  through  a  tammis,  and 
keep  it  in  small  bottles,  corked  as  tightly  as  possible. 


*  "  If  Leekes  you  Kke,  but  do  their  smell  dis-leeke. 
Eat  Ooyons,  and  you  shall  not  smell  the  Leeke; 
If  you  of  OnyoDS  would  the  scent  expell, 
Eat  Garlicke,  that  shall  drowne  the  Onyons*  smell.'* 

See  page  59  of  the  Philosopher's  Banqtiel,  16mo.  Loudoii,  1633. 


CAYENNE  PEPPER.  321 

Cayenne  Pepper, — (No«  404.) 

Mr.  Accum  has  informed  the  Public,  (see  his  book  oh 
Adulterations^)  that  from  some  specimens  that  came  direct  tc^ 
hifls  from  India,  and  others  obtainedt  from  respectable  Oil 
Shops  in  London,  be  has  extracted  Lead! 

*'  Foreign  Cayenne  Pepper  is  an  indiscriminate  mixture  of 
the  powder  of  the  dried  pods  of  many  species  of  Capsicums, 
—especially  of  the  Bird  Peppery  which  is  the  hottest  of  all.  As 
it  comes  to  us  from  the  West  Indies,  it  changes  the  infusion  of 
Turnsole  to  a  beautiful  Green,  probably  owing  to  the  Salt, 
which  is  always  added  to  it,  and  the  Red  Oxide  of  Lead^ 
with  which  it  is  said  to  be  adulterated."  Duncan's  New 
Edinburgh  Dispensary y  1819,  Article  Capsicum^  p.  81.. 

The  Indian  Cayenne  is  prepared  in  a  very  careless  manner, 
and  often  looks  as  if  the  pods  had  lain  till  tbey  were  decayed, 
before  they  were  dried ; — this  accounts  for  the  dirty  brown 
appearance  it  commonly  has.  If  properly  dried  as  soon  as 
gathered,  it  will  be  of  a  cjear  red  colour :  to  give  it  the  com- 
plexion of  that  made  with  gocd  fresh  gathered  Capsicums  or 
Chilies,  some  Annatto,  or  other  Vegetable  Red  colouring 
matter,  is  pounded  with  it ;  this,  Mr.  A.  assures  us,  is  fre- 
quently ?idulterated  with  Indian  Red,  i,  e.  "  Red  LeadP^ 

When  Cayenne  is  pounded,  it  is  mixed  with  a  consider* 
able  portion  of  Salt,  to  prevent  its  flying  up  and  hurting  ihe 
Eyes :  this  might  be  avoided,  by  grinding  it  in  a  Mill,  which 
may  easily  be  made  close  enough,  especially  if » it  be  passed 
through  a  second  time,  and  then  sifted  through  a  fine  drum- 
headed  sieve,  to  produce  as  fine  a  powder  as  can  be  obtained 
by  pounding ;  however,  our  English  Chilies  may  be  pounded 
in  a  deep  mortar  without  any  danger. 

Capsicums  and  Chilies  are  ripe  and  red,  and  in  finest  con- 
dition during  September  and  October ;  they  may.be  purchased 
at  the  Herb  Shops  in  Covent-Ciarden,  the  former  for  about 
live,  the  latter  for  two  shilHngs  per  hundred. 

The  flavour  of  the  Chilies  is  very  superior  to  that  of  the 
Capsicums, — and  will  be  good  in  proportion  as  they  are  dried 
as  soon  as  possible,  taking  care  they  are  not  burnt. 

Take  away  the  stalks,  and  put  the  pods  into  a  Cullender; 

p  o 


322  STORE  SAUCES. 

set  it  before  the  Fire ;  they  1711)  take  fall  twelve  hours  to  dry ; 
tt^en  put  them  into  a  mortaf*  with  one-fbarth  their  weight  of 
salty  and  pound  them  and  rub  them  till  theyvrefoie  as  pom" 
bUg  and  put  them  mto  a  well-stopped  bottle. 

N.B.  We  advise  tho»e  who  are  fond  of  Cayenne  not  to 
think  it  too  much  trouble  to  make  it  of  £ng:lish  ChiUes, — 
there  is  no  other  way  of  being  sure  it  is  genuine* — and  they 
will  obtain  a  pepper  of  much  finer  flavour,  without  half  the 
heat  of  the  Foreign. 

A  hundred  large  Chilies,  costing  only  Two  Shillings,  will 
produce  you  about  two  ounces  of  Cayenne, — so  it  is  as  cheap 
as  the  commonest  Cayenne. 

Four  hundred  Chilies,  when  the  stems  were  taken  off,  weighed 
half  a  pound,  and  when  dried  produced  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  Cayenne  Pepper. 

Essence  of  Cayenne, — (No.  405.) 

Put  half  an  ounce  of  Cayenne  Pepper  {No.  404,)  into  half 
a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Wine ;  let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight,  and 
then  pour  off  the  clear  liquor. 

This  is  nearly  equal  to  fresh  Chili  juice,  ' 

Obs, — This  or  the  Chili  Vinegar  (No.  405*,)  is  extremely 
convenient  for  the  extempore  seasoning,  and  finishing,  of 
ISoups,  Sauces,  &c.,  its  favour  being  instantly y  and  equally 
diffused,  Cayenne  Pepper  varies  so  much  in  strength,  that 
it  IS  impossible  tp  season  Soup  any  other  way  to  the  precise 
point  ofpiquance. 

Chili  Finegar,—{No,U05*,) 

This  is  commonly  made  with  the  Foreign  Bird  Pepper^'- 

but  you  will  obtain  a  much  finer  fiavour  from  infusing  &fty 

fresh  Red  English  Chilies  (cut  in.  half,  or  poimded,)  in  a  pint 

of  the  best  Vinegar  for  a  fortnight,  or  a  quarter  ounce  of 

Cayenne  Pepper  (No.  404.) 

Obs, — Many  p^ple  cannot  eat  Fish  without  the  additioa 
of  an  Acid,  and  Cayenne  Pepper ;  to  such  Palates  this  will 
be  an  agreeable  relish. 

Chiliy  or  Cayenne  Wine, — (No.  405**). 

Pound  and  steep  fifty  fresh  Red  Chilies,  or  a  quarter  of  an 


LBMON  PEEL  AND  JUICE.  323 

ounce  of  Cayenne  Pepper,  in  half  a  pint  of  Brandy,  White 
Wine,  or  Claret,  for  fourteen  days. 

Obs. — This  is   a   ^*  Bonne   Bouche^^   for  the  lovers  of 
Cayenne,  of  which  it  takes  up  a  larger  proportion  of  its 
flavour,  than 'of  its  fire:  which  being   instantly  diffused, 
it  is  a  veiry  useful  auxiliary  to  warm  and   finish  Soups  and 
Sauces,  &c. 

Essence  of  Lemon  Peel. — (No.  407.) 

•  Wash  and  brush  clean  the  Lemons ; — let  them  get  per- 
fectly dry :— 4ake  a  lump  of  Loaf  Sugar,  and  rub  them  till  all 
the  yellow  rind  is  taken  up  by  the  si^r  ;-i-scrape  off  the 
surface,  of  the  sugar  into  a  preserving  pot,  and  press  it  hard 
down ;  cover  it  very  close,  and  it  will  keep  for  some  time. 

In  the  same  way  you  may  get  the  essence  of  Seville  Orange 
Peel. 

Obs. — ^This  method  of  procuring,  and  preserving  the  fla- 
vour of  Lemon  Peel,  by  making  an  OleO'Saccharum,  is  far 
superior  to  the  common  practice  of  paring  off  the  rind,  or 
grating  it,  and  pounding,  or  mixing  that  with  sugar : — ^by 
this  process,  you  obtain  the  whole  of  the  fine,  fragrant,  essen- 
tial Oil,  in  wnich  is  contained  the  flavour. 

Artificial  Lemon  Juice. — (No.  407*). 

If  you  add  a  drachm  of  Lump  Sugar,  pounded,  and  six 
drops  of  (No.  408,)  to  three  ounces  of  Chrystal  Vinegar, 
which  is  the  name  given  to  the  Pyroligneous  Vinegar,  you 
will  have  an  excellent  substitute  for  Lemon  Juice — for  Fish 
Sauces  and  Soups,  and  many  other  culinary  purposes.  The 
flavour  of  the  Lemon  may  also  be  compiunicated  to  the  Vine- 
gar— ^by  infusing  some  Lemon  Peel  in  it. 

N.  B..  The  Pyroligneous  Vinegar  is  perfectly  free  from  all 
flavour,  save  that  of  the  pure  Acid, — therefore,  it  is  a  very 
valuable  menstruum  for  receiving  impregnations  from  various 
flavouring  materials. 

The  Pyro-ligNeous  Acid  seems  likely  to  produce  quite 
a  revolution  in  the  process  of  curins:  Hams,  Herrings,  &c.  &c. 
— See  TihLOCH's  Philosophical  Magazine,  1821,  No.  173, 
p.  12. 


1 


324 


STORE  SAUCES. 


Quint-Essence  of  Lemon  Pec/.— (No.  408.) 

Best  oil  of  Lemon,  one  drachm. 

Strongest  rectified  spirit,  two  ounces, 
introduced  by  dej^ees,  till  the  spirit  kills,  and  completely 
mixes  with  the  oiL     This  elegant  preparation  possesses  all 
the  delightful  fragrance  and  flavour  of  the  fresnest  Lemoo 
Peel. 

06*. — A  few  drops  on  the  Sugar  you  make  Pwnch  with, 
will  instantly  impregnate  it  with  as  much  flavour  as  the  trou- 
blesome and  tedious  method  of  grating  the  rind,  or  rubbing 
the  Si^r  on  it         . 

It  will  be  found  a  superlative  substitute  for  fresh  Lemon 
Peely  for  every  purpose  that  it  is  used  for :  Blanc  Mange, 
— Jellies, — Custards,  —  Ice, — Negus,  —  Lemonade,  — ^and 
Pies,  and  Puddings, — Stuffings, — Soups, — Sauces,  Ragouts, 
&c. 

See  also  (No.  393.) 

Tincture  of  Lemon  Peel — (No.  408.*) 

k  very  easy,  and  economical  way  of  obtaining,  and  pre- 
serving the  flavour  of  Lemon  Peel,  is  to  fill  a  wide-mouthed 
pint  bottle  half  full  of  Brandy,  or  proof  spirit;  and  when 
you  use  a  Lemon,  pare  the  rind  off  very  thin,  and  put  it  into 
the  Brandy*  &c. ; — in  a  fortnight,  it  will  impregnate  the 
spirit  with  the  flavour  very  strongly. 

Essence  of  Celery^-^  (No.  409.) 

Brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  a  quarter  of  a  pint. 

Celery  seed  bruised,  half  an  ounce,  avoirdupois  weight. 

Let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight. 

Obs. — A  few  drops  will  immediately  flavour  a  pint  of 
y  Brothy  and  are  an  excellent  addition  to  Pease,  and  other 
Soups  and  the  salad  mixture  of  Oil,  Vinegar,  &c.  (No. 
392.) 

N.B.  To  make  Celery  Sauce,  see  (No.  289.). 


FLAVOUJIING   ESSENCES.  323 

Aromatk  Eissnce  of  Ginger. — (No.  411.) 

Three  ounces  of  fresh^grated*  Ginger,  and  two  ounces  of 
thin  cut  Lemon  Peel,  into  a  quart  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit, 
(apothecaries'  measure;)  let  it  stand  for  ten  days,  shaking 
it  up  each  day. 

Obs. — The  proper  titje  for  this  would  be  "  Tincture  of 
Ginger ;"  however,  as  it  has  obtained  the  name  of  "  Essence,** 
so  let  it  be  called. 

N.B.  If  Ginger  is  taken  to  produce  an  immediate  effect, 
— ^to  warm  the  Stomach,  or  dispel  flatulence, — this  is  the 
best  preparation.  « 

Essence  of  Allspice  for  Mulling  of  Wine. — (No.  412.) 

Oil  of  Pimento,  a  drachm,  apothecaries'  measure. 

Strong  Spirit  of  Wine,  two  ounces, 
mixed  by  degrees :  a  few  drops  will  give  the  flavour  of 
Allspice  to  a  pint  of  Gravy, — or  Mulled  Wine, — or  to  make 
a  Bishop.  Mulled  wine  made  with  Burgundy  is  called 
Bishop;  with  old  Rhenish  wine,  Cardinal;  and  with  Tokay, 
Pope, — RiTTER's  Weinkhres,  p.  200. 

Tincturef  of  Allspice, — (No.   413.) 

Of  Allspice  bruised,  three  ounces,  apothecaries'  weight. 

Brandy  a  quart. 

Let  it  steep  a  fortnight,  occasionally  shaking  it  up ;  then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor :  it  is  a  most  gratefiU  addition  in  all 
cases  where  Allspice  is  used,  for  making  a  Bishop,  or  to 
MoLLED  Wine  Extempoie,  or  in  Gravies,  &c.  or  to  flavour 
and  preserve  Potted  Meats,  (No.  503  )  See  Sir  Hans 
^x^oane's  Obs.  on  Allspice^  p.  96. 

Tincture  of  Nutmeg — (No.  413*.) 

Is  made  with  the  same  proportions  of  Nutmeg  and  Brandy 
as  ordered  for  Allspice.     See  Obs.  to  (No.  415.) 


*  Tbe  fragrant  aroma  of  Ginger  is  so  extremely  Tolatile,  that  it 
evaporates  almost  as  soon  as  it  is  powdered^  -and  the  fiu«  Esinoa- 
peel  goat — flies  off  presendy. 

-f-  Tinctures  are  much  finer  flaroured  than  Essences. 


326  STORB  SAUCES. 

Eisence  of  Chve  and  JIfaee.*— (No.  414«) 

Strongest  Spirit  of  Wine,   two    ounces,  apothecaiies* 

measure. 
Oil  of  Nutmeg  or  Clove  or  Mace,  a  drachm,  apothecaries' 

measure. 

Tincture  of  Ciove.—{So.  415.) 

Cloves  bruised,  three  ounces,  apothecaries'  weight. 
Brandy  one  quart. 

Let  it  steep  ten  days :  strain  it  through  a  flannel  sieve. 
06#.— Excellent  to  flavour   «  Bishop  "    or    «  MvUei 
Wine.'* 

Essence  of  Cinnamon. — (No.  416.) 

Strongest  rectified  Spirit  of  Wine,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  Cinnamon,  one  drachm,  apothecaries'  measure. 

Tincture  of  Ctnnamon.—- (No.  416.) 

This  exhilarating  Cordial  is  made  by  pouring  a  bottle  of 
p:enuine  Cognac  (No.  471),  on  three  ounces  of  bruised 
Cinnamon — (Cassia  will  not  do.) 

This  restorative  was  more  in  vogue  formerly,  than  it  is 
now ; — a  tea-spoonful  of  it,  and  a  lump  of  Sugar,  in  a  glass 
of  good  Sherry  or  Madeira,  with  the  yolk  of  an  Egg  beat  up 
in  it, — ^was  called  **  Bakamum  Vita.** 

*'  Cur  moriatur  homo,  qui  mmit  de  Cinamomo  f — CinnarooD  is 
verie  comfortable  to  the  Stomacke,  and  the  principall  partes  of  tfat 
bodie.'* 

"  VtnirietUumj  Jeeur,  Lienem,  Cerebrum,  nervoaque  juoat  tt 
roborafy — ''  I  reckon  it  a  great  treasure  for  a  student  to  bave  by  bim 
in  his  doset,  to  take  now  and  then  a  spoonful.^' — ^Cooak's  Haxem  ijf 
ffea/M,  4to,  I584.p.  111. 

Obs. — Two  tea-spoonsful  in  a  wine-glass  of  water — are  a 
present  and  pleasant  remedy  in  Nervous  Languors — and  in 
relaxations  of  the  Bowels ; — in  the  latter  case,  five  drops  of 
Laudanum  may  be  added  to  each  dose. 

Essence  of  Marjoram. — (No.  417.) 

Strongest  rectified  Spirit,  two  ounces. 

Oil  of  Origanum,  one  drachm,  apothecaries*'  measure* 


i 


FLAVOURING  BSSENCES.  327 

Vegetable  Essences. — (No.  417*.) 

The  flavour  of  the  various  sweet  and  savoury  Herbs 
may  be  obtained,  by  combining  their  Essential  Ot7«  with 
Rectified  Spirit  of  Wtne,  in  the  proportion  of  one  drachm 
of  the  former  to  two  ounces  of  the  latter,  or  by  picking  the 
leaves,  and  laying  them  for  a  couple  of  hours  in  a  warm 
place  to  dry,  and  then  filling  a  large-mouthed  bottle  with 
them,  and  pouring  on  them  Wine,  Brandy,  Proof  Spirit,  or 
Vinegar,  and  letting  them  steep  for  fourteen  days* 

Soup  Herb*  Spzrt/.— (No.  420.) 

Of  Lemon  Thyme, 

Winter  Savory, 

Sweet  Marjoram, 
-  Sweet  Basil, — half  an  ounce  of  each. 

Lemon  Peel  grated,  two  drachms. 

Eschallots,  the  same. 

Celery  Seed,  a  drachm  avoirdupois  weight. 

Prepare  them  as  directed  in  (No.  461) ;  and  infuse  them 
in  a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  for  ten  days ;  they 
may  also  be  infused  in  Wine^  or  Vinegar^  but  neither 
extract  the  flavour  of  the  ingredients  half  so  well  as  the 
spirit. 

Spirit  of  Savoury  Spice, — (No.  421.)  x 

Black    pepper,    an    ounce, — Allspice,    half  an   ounce, 

pounded  fine. 
Nutmeg  grated,    a  quarter  of    an   ounce,    avoirdupois 

weight. 
Infuse  in  a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  for  ten  days : 
—OR,  infuse  the  ingredients  enumerated  in  (No.  457,)  in 
a  quart  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  for  the  like  time. 

Soup'herb  and  Savoury  Spice  5jpin7.— (No.  422.) 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  Soup-herb  spirit  with  a  quarter  pint  of 
Spirit  of  Savoury  spice. 


*  For  the  seasoD,  (fee.  when  these  Herbs,  <fec  come  in  perftetioB, 
and  how  to  dry  them.  See  (No.  461.) 


328  .      BTOAB  SAUCES. 

Obs. — These  preparations  are  valuable  auxiliaries  to  tin- 
tnediately  heighten  the  flavour^  and  fiiiish  Soups,  SauoeSf 
RaaoHUs^  j^c. — wiU  save  much  time  cma  trouble  to  the  Cook, 
ana  keep  for  twenty  years. 

Relish  for  Chops,  ^c,-.(No,  423.) 

Pound  fine  an  ounce  of  Black  Pepper,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  Allspice,  with  an  ounce  of  Salt,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
scraped  Horseradish,  and  the  same  of  Eschallots  peeled  and 
quartered ;  put  these  ingredients  into  a  pint  of  Mushroom 
Catsup,  or  Walnut  Pickle,  and  let  them  steep  for  a  fort- 
night, and  then  strain  it. 

06*. — A  tea-spoonful  or  two    of  this  is  generally  an 
acceptable  addition,  mixed  with  the  Gravy  usually  sent  up 
for  Chops  and  Steaks ;  see  (No.  35(j),  or  added  to  thick 
•  melted  Butter. 

Fish  Sauce.— (^0.  425.) 

Two  wine-glasses  of  Port,  and  two  of  Walnut  Pickle; 
four  of  Mushroom  Catsup ;  half  a  dozen  Anchovies  pounded, 
the  like  number  of  Eshallots  sliced  and  pounded ;  a  tabk- 
apoonful  of  Soy,  and  half  a  drachm  oi  Cayenne  pepper :  let 
them  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  strain  it,  and  when 
cold,  put  it  into  bottles ;  well  corked  and  sealed  over,  it  will 
keep  for  a  considerable  time. 

Obs. — This  is  commonly  called  Quints  Sauce,  and  was 
given  to  me  by  a  very  sagacious  Saucemaker. 

Keeping  Musiard,'^(t!io.  427.) 

Dissolve  three  ounces  of  Salt  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
or  rather  Vinegar,  and  pour  it  hot  upon  two  ounces  of 
scraped  Horseradish  ;  clos?ly  cover  down  the  jar,  and  let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours  :-r-^train,  and  mix  it  by  degrees 
with  the  best  Durham  flour  of  mustard,  beat  well  .together 
ti]l<]uite  smooth  and  of  the  proper  thickness ;  put  into  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  stop  it  closely.  For  the  various 
ways  to  flavour  Mustard,  see  (Na.  370.) 


SAUCB  SUPERLATIVE.  329 

SAUCE  SUPERLATIVE.*-.(No.  429.) 

Claret,  or  Port  Wine,  and  Mushroom  Catsup,  see  (No. 
439),  a  pint  of  each. 

Half  a  pint  of  Walnut  or  other  Pickle  liquor. 

Pounded  Anchovies,  four  ounces. 

Fresh  Demon- peel  joarerf  very  thin^  an  ounce. 

Peeled  and  sliced  Eshallots,  the  same. 

Set-aped  Hovseradisb,  ditto. 

Allspice,  and 

BlacK  Pepper  powdered,  half  an  ounce  each. 

Cayenne,  one  drachm,  or  Curry  powder,  three  drachras. ' 

Celery-aeed  bruised,  a  drachm.  All  avoirdupois  weight. 
Put  these  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  stop  it  close,  shake  it 
up  ^ery  day  for  a  fortnight,  and  strain  it,  (when  some 
think  it  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  quarter  pint  of  Soy, 
or  thick  Browning,)    see  (No.  322),  and  you  will  have  a 

*•  DKLICIOUS  DOUBLE  RELISH." 

***  This  composition  is  one  of  the  «*  chef  d'oBUvres"  of 
many  experiments  I  have  made^  for  the  purpose  of  enabling 
the  good  Houseumes  of  Great  Britain  to  prepare  their  own 
Sattces :  it  is  eqtially  agreeable  with  fishy  game,  poultry ^  (jr 
ragouts  f  ^c,  and  as  a  fair  lady  may  make  it  herself,  its  re- 
lish  will  be  not  a  little  augmentedy — by  the  certainty  that  alt 
the  ingredients  are  good  and  wholesome. 

Obs. — Under  an  infinity  of  circumstances,  a  Cook  may 
be  in  want  of  the  substances  necessary  to  make  Sauce ;  the 
above  composition  of  the  several  articles  from  which  the  va- 
rious gravies  derive  their  flavour,  will  be  found  a  very  ad- 
mirable  extemporaneous  substitute.     By  mixing    a    large 

r 

>         ■    I  I  ■  '  I     a    I     ■■■  ■  III  ■  I  ■ 

•  Wtf  hope  this  title  will  not  offend  those  who  may  quote  against 
it  ihe  old  4dajrft,  <*  that  Good  Appetite  is  the  best  Snuee/' — Allowing 
this  to  be  generally  true,  (which  is  a  morn  candid  confession  than  coald 
be  expected  from  a  Cook),  we  dare  say,  the  majoiity  of  our  readers 
will   vote  with  us,  that  there  are  many  |rood  things  (Fish  especially) 
that  would  be  rather  iBsipid*— ^without  a  little  Sauce  of  another  kind. 
**  Wherefore  did  Nature  pour  her  bounlies  forth. 
With  such  a  full  and  unwilbdrawinjr  hand  ; 
Covering  the  earth  with  odours,  fruits,  and  floeks. 
Thronging  the  seas  with  spawn  innumerable ; 
But  all  to  please  and  satfe  the  curious  taste  !*' 

Milton. 


330  ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVY* 

table-spoonful  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  thickened  melted 
butter,  broth,  or  (No.  252),  five  minutes  will  finish  a  ho/al 
of  very  relishing  sauce,  nearly  equal  to  drawn  gravy,  and  as 
likely  to  put  your  Lingual  nerves  into  good  humour  as  any 
thing  I  know. 

To  make  a  boat  of  Sauce  for  Poultry,  &c.  put  a  piece  of 
butter  about  as  big  as  an  egg,  into  a  stewpan,  set  it  on  the 
fire ;  when  it  is  melted,  put  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of  flour ; 
stir  it  thoroughly  together,  and  add  to  it  two  table-spoonsful 
of  Sauce,  and  by  degrees,  about  half  a  pint  of  broth  or  boil- 
ing water,  let  it  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,  skim  it  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  rea<fy« 

QUINT-ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVY.*— (No.  433.J 

The  goodness  of  this  preparation  depends  almost  entirely 
on  having  fine  mellow  Fish,  that  have  been  in  pickle  long 
enough  [i,  e.  about  twelve  months)  to  dissolve  easily, — ^yet 
are  not  at  all  rusty. 

Choose  those  that  are  in  the  state  they  come  over  in,  not 
such  as  have  been  put  into  firesh  Pickle,  mixed  with  Red 
Pai)it,f  which  some  add.  to  improve  the  complexion  of  the 
Fish, — it  has  been  said,  that  otners  have  a  trick  of  puttii^ 
Anchovy  liquor  on  pickled  Sprats  :t  you  will  easily  discover 
this  by  washing  one  of  them,  and  tasting  the  flesh  of  it, 
which  in  the  fine  Anchovy,  is  meUow,  red,  and  high  fla- 
vourc^d,  and  the  bone  moist  and  oily.  Make  only  as  much 
as  will  soon  be  used,  the  fresher  it  is  the  better. 

*  The  invention  of  this  fdvourite  Fish  Sauce  is  claimed  by  Mr. 
Thos.  YooD(;,  see  <'  The  Epicure/'  Harding,  London,  iSlS,  page  12. 
He  sajs,  **  there  still  is  a  cabal  between  some  of  the  makers  of  tint 
sauce,  which  of  tbem  makes  h  best  Though  they  do  not  pretend  to 
the  inventioo,  all  of  tbem  denominate  themselves  the  best  makeis. 
One  is  **the  real  maker  ///'*  another  *•  t/ie  superior  Hi*',  another 
"  the  improved!!!*'  another  *•  the  original  superior!!!'^  with  cau- 
tions to  guard  against  the ''  spunoue  makers." 

t  *^  Several  samples  which  we  examined  of  this  Fish  Sauce,  ha«» 
been  found  contaminated  with  Lead.'*— See  Accdm  ok  Adultbba* 
TioN,  page  328. 

I  They  may  do  very  well  for  common  palates ;  but  to  imitate  the 
fine  flavour  of  the  Gorgona  fish,  so  us  to  impose  upon  a  well-educated 
Gourmand,  stiU  remains  in  the  catalogue  of  the  Sauoe-maker's  deside- 
rata. 


ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVV.  331 

Put  ten  or  twelve  Anchovies  into  a  mortar,  and  pound 
them  to  a  pulp ; — put  this  into  a  very  clean  iron  or  silver, 
or  very  well  tinned  ♦  saucepan,  then  put  a  large  table-spoon- 
ftd  of  cold  sprii^  water  (we  prefer  good  vinegar)  into  the 
mortar,  shake  it  round,  and  pour  it  to  the  pounded  Ancho- 
vies, set  them  by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire,  very  frequently 
stirring  them  together,  till  they  are  melted,  which  they  will 
be  in  the  course  of  five  minutes. — ^Now  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a 
drachm  of  good  Cayenne  pepper  (No.  404),  and  let  it  re- 
main by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then, 
while  it  is  warm,  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve,t  with  the 
back  of  a  wooden  spoon. 

The  Essence  of  Anchovy  which  is  prepared  for  the  Com- 
mittee OP  Taste,  is  made  with  double  the  above  quantity 
of  water — as  they  are  of  opinion  that  it  ought  to  be  so  thin 
that  it  does  not  hang  about  the  sides  of  the  Bottle — ^when  it 
does,  the  large  surface  of  it  is  soon  acted  upon  by  the  air, 
and  becomes  rancid  and  spoils  ail  the  rest  of  it. 

A  roll  of  thin  cut  Lemon-peel  infused  with  the  Anchovy, 
imparls  a  fine,  fresh,  delicate  aromatic  flavour,  which  is  very 
grateful ;  this  is  only  recommended  when  you  make  Sauce 
fc#  immediate  use, — it  will  keep  much  belter  without ;  if 
you  wish  to  acidulate  it,  instead  of  water  make  it  with  arti- 
ficial Lemon  juice  (No.  407*),  or  add  a  little  of  CoxweWs 
«)»CT«ee  acid  to  it. 

Obs, — The  above  is  the  proper  way  to  perfectly  dissolve 
Anchovy,J  and  incorporate  it  with  the  water;  which,  if 
completely  saturated,  will  continue  suspended. 

To  prevent  the  separ<Uion  of  Essence  of  Anchovy,  and  give 
it  the  appearance  of  being  fully  saturated  with  Fish, — va- 
rious other  expedients  have  been  tried,  such  as  dissolving 
the  fish  in  thin  Water  Gruel,  or  Barley  Water,  or  thicken- 


*  The  best  vessel  for  this  purpose  is  tbe  pint  Baintnarie,  sold  bj 
*^oyd,  Ironmonger,  near  NorfoUc  Street,  Strand. 

t  Tlie  Economist  may  take  the  thick  remains  that  won*t  pass 
J^Dgh  the  sieve,  and  pound  it  with  some  flour,  and  make  Akchovt 
*A»Ta,  or  PowDRR.    See  (Nos.  434  and  435.) 

t  Bpicure  Qttin  used  to  say,  '*  Of  al^the  Banns  of  Marriage  I  ever 
^id,  none  gave  me  half  such  pleasure  as  the  union  of  deUcate  Ann- 
caovT  with  good  John- dob  v.'' 


332  ESS£NCE  OP  ANCHOVY. 

ingit  with  Mucilage,  Flour,  &c., — when  any  of  these  things 
ave  added,  it  does  not  keep  half  so  well  as  it  does  without 
them,  and  to  preserve  it,  they  overload  it  with  Cayenne 
Pepper. 

Mem.  You  cannot  make  Essence  of  Anchovy  half  so  cheap 
as  you  can  buy  it, — Thirty  pHme  Fish,  weighing  a  pound 
and  a  quarter,  and  costing  49.  6d,  and  two  table*spoonsf  ul  of 
water,  made  me  only  half  a  Pint  of  Essence, — you  may 
commonly  buy  that  quantity  ready  made  for  25.,  and  we 
have  seen  an  Advertisement  offering  it  for  sale  as  low  as 
2s.  6d,  per  Quart, 

It  must  be  kept  very  closely  stopped^ — when  you  tap  a 
bottle  of  SaucCy  throw  away  the  old  perforated  Cork^  and 
put  in  a  new  taper  velvet  cork ; — if  the .  air  gets  to  it^  the 
Fish  takes  the  rust^*  and  it  is  spoiled  directly. 

Essence  of  Anchovy  is  sometimes  coloured  f  with  bole 
Armeniac,  Venice  red,  &c. ;  but  all  these  additions  dete- 
riorate the  flavour  of  the  sauce,  and  the  Palate  and  Stomach 
suffer  for  the  gra  ification  of  the  Eye,  which,  in  cuKnary 
concerns,  will  nev  r  be  indulged  by  the  sagacious  Gotir- 
mand  at  the  expense  of  these  two  primum  mobiles  of  bis 
pursuits,  ♦ 

*#*  Essence  of  Anchovy  is  sometimes  made  with  Sherry  or 
Madeira  wine,  or  good  Mushroom  catsup  (No.  439),  instead 
of  water.  If  you  like  the  a^id  flavour y  add  a  little  citric 
acidj  or  dissolve  them  in  good  Finegar. 
'  N.B.  This  is  infinitely  the  most  convenient  way  of  lisin^ 
Anchovy,  as  each  s;uest  may  mix  sauce  for  himself,  and 
make  it  strong  or  weak,  according  to  his  own  taste. 

It  is  also  much  more  Economical,  as  plain  melted  Butter 
(No.  256)  serves  for  other  purposes  at  table. 

Anchovy  Paste,  or  le  Beurre  d\4.nchois. — (No.  434.) 

Pound  them  in  a  mortar,  then   rub  it  through  a  fine 

.1 ,  .  I    I     .1.   I  .  ■  »      ,    . 

*  **  Rust  io  Anchovies,  if  Pm  not  mistaken,  . 
Is  as  bad  as  Rust  in  Steely  or  Rust  in  Bacon.'' 

YouNo'g  Epicure,  page  14. 
t  If  you  are  not  contented  with  the  natural  colouc,  break  aame 
Lobsters*  Eggs  into  it,  and  you  will  not  only  heighten  the  Complexioo 
of  your  Sauce,  but  improve  its  flavour.    This  is  the  only  Rouge  we  am 
recommend.    See  note  to  (No.  284.) 


J 


CATSUPS.  333 

sieve ;  pot  it ;  cover  it  with  clarified  butter,  and  keep  it  in  a 
cool  place. 

N.  B.  If  you  have  Essence  of  Anchovy ^  you  may  make 
Anchovy  Paste  Extempore,  by  rubbing  the  Essence  with  as 
much  Flour  as  will  make  a  paste.  Mem,  This  is  merely 
mentioned  as  the  means  of  making  it  immediately,— -it  will 
liot  keep. 

Obs, — This  is  sometimes  made  stiffer  and  hotter  by  the 
addition  of  a  little  Flour  of  Mustard, — a  pickled  Walnut, — 
Spice  (No.  460,) — Cupry  Powder  (No.  455,) — or  Cayenne, 
and  then  becomes  a  rival  to  "  la  veritable  Sauce  d'Enfer*^ 
(No.  538,)-r-or  Pdie  d.  la  Diable  for  Deviling  Biscuits  (No. 
574,) — Grills  (No.  538,)  &c.  It  is  an  excellent  ggtrnish  for 
Fish,  put  in  pats  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  or  will  make 
Anchovy  Toast  (No.  573,) — or  Devil  a  Biscuit  (No.  574,) 
&c.  in  high  style. 

Anchovy  Powder. — (No.  435.) 

Pound  the  fish  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
make  them  into  a  paste  with  dried  flour,  roll  it  into  thin 
cakes,  and  dry  them  in  a. Dutch  oven  before  a  slow  fire; 
pounded  to  a  fine  powder,  and  put  into  a  well-stopped  bottle, 
it  will  keep  for  years ;  it  is  a  very  savoury  relish,  sprinkled 
on  bread  and  butter  for  a  sandwich,  &c.  See  Oyster  powder 
(No.  280.)      ,  . 

Obs.- — To  this  may  be  added  a  small  portion  of  Cayenne 
Pepper,  grated  Lemon  Peel,  and  Citric  Acid, 

Walnut  Catsup.— (^o.  438.) 

Take  six  half  sieves  of  green  walnut  shells,  put  them  into 
a  tub,  mix  them  up  well  with  common  salt,  from  two  to 
three  pounds,  let  them  stand  for  six  days,  frequently  beating 
and  mashing  them ;  by  this  time  the  shells  become  soft  and 
pulpy,  then  by  banking  it  up  on  one  side  of  the  tub,  and  at 
the  same  time  by  raising  the  tub  on  that  side,  the  liquor  will 
drain  clear  off  to  the  other  ;  then  take  that  liquor  out :  the 
mashing  and  banking  up  may  be  repeated  as  often  as  liquor 
is  found.  The  quantity  will  be  about  six  quarts.  When 
done,  let  it  be  simmered  in  an  iron  boiler  as  long  as  any 
scum  arises ;  then  bruise  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger,  a 


334  CATSUPS. 

quarter  of  a  pound  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  long  pepper, 
two  ounces  of  cloves,  with  the  above  ingredients,  let  it  slowly 
boil  for  half  an  hour  :  when  bottled  let  an  equal  quantity  of 
the  spice  go  into  each  bottle ;  when  corked,  let  the  bottles 
be  filled  quite  up :  cork  them  tight,  seal  them  over,  and  put 
into  a  cool  and  dry  place  for  one  year  before  it  is  used^ 

N,  B.  For  the  above  we  are  indebted  to  a  respectable  CHI- 
man,  who  has  many  years  proved  the  Receipt. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP.— (No.  439.) 

If  you  love  Good  Catsup,  gentle  reader,  make  it  your- 
self,* afler  the  following  directions,  and  you  will  have  a  deli- 
cious Relish  for  Made  dishes,  Ragouts,  Soups,  Sauces,  or 
Hashes. 

Murhroom  gravy,  approaches  the  nature  and  flavour  of 
Meat  gravy,  more  than  any  vegetable  juice  ;  and  is  the  super- 
lative substitute  for  it,  in  Meagre  Soups,  and  Extempore 
Gravies,  the  Chemistry  of  the  Kitchen  has  yet  contrived  to 
agreeably  awaken  the  Palate,  and  encourage  the  Appetite. 
;  A  couple  of  Quarts  of  Double  Catsup,  made  according  to 
the  following  Receipt,  will  save  you  some  score  pounds  of 
Meat,  besides  a  vast  deal  of  time  and  trouble,  as  it  will  fiir- 
nish,  in  a  few  minutes,  as  good  Sauce  as  can  be  made  for 
either  Fish,  Flesh,  or  Fowl.     See  (No.  307.) 

I  believe  the  following  is  the  best  way  of  extracting  and 
preparing  the  Essence  of  Mushrooms,  so  as  to  procure,  and 
preserve  their  flavour  for  a  considerable  length  of  time. 

Look  out  for  Mushrooms  from  the  beginning  of  Sep- 
tember. 

Take  care  they  are  the  right  sort,  and  fresh  gathered. 
Full  grown  Flaps  are  to  be  preferred :  put  a  layer  of  these 
at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  sprinkle  them  with 
Salt,  then  another  layer  of  Musnrooms,  and  some  more  salt 
on  them,  and  so  on  alternately,  salt  and  mushrooms ; — ^let 

*    ■  —         ■  .       ■ 

*  **  The  Mushrooms  employed  for  preparinfr  ready  made  Catsup,  are 
generally  those  which  are  in  a  putrefactive  state.  In  a  few  days  after 
those  Fungi  have  been  gathered,  they  become  the  habitation  of  my- 
riads of  insects.''  . 

AccDM  on  CuHnary  Poitons,  ]2mo..  1890.  p.  3d9. 


CATSUPS.  335 

them  remain  two  or  three  hours,  by  which  time  the  salt  will 
liave  penetrated  the  mushrooms,  and  rendered  them  easy  to 
break  ; — ^then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  or  mash  them  well 
with  your  hands,  and  let  them  remain  for  a  couple  of  days, 
not  longer, .  sturing  them  up,  and  mashing  them  yrell  each 
day ; — ^then  pour  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  to  each  quart 
add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  whole  Black  Pepper,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  allspice ;  stop  the  jar  very  close,  and  set  it  in  a 
stewpan  of  boiling  water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  two  hours 
at  least. — Take  out  the  jar,  and  pour  the  juice  clear  from  the 
settlings  through  a  hair  sieve  (without  squeezing*  the.  mush- 
rooms) into  a  clean  stewpan ;  let  it  boil  very  gently  for  half 
an  hour ;  those  who  are  for  Superlative  Catsup,  will 
continue  the  boiling  till  the  Mushroom  juice  is  reduced  to 
half  the  quantity,  it  may  then  be  called  Double  Ca^-sup  or 
Do€j-sup.        •   ' 

There  are  sevelral  advantages  attending  this  concentration ; 
it  will  keep"  much  better,  and  only  half  the  quantity  be  re* 
quired ; — so  you  can  flavour  Sauce,  &c.  without  thinning  it : 
— ^neither  is  this  an  extravagant  way  of  making  it,  for  merely 
the  aqueous  part  is  evaporated ;  skim  it  well,  and  pour  it 
into  a  cleaii  dry  jar,  or  jug ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stand  in 
a  cool  place  till  next  day,  then  pour  it  off  as  gently  as  possi<* 
ble,  (so  as  not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the 
jug,)  through  a  tammis,  or  thick  flannel  bag,  till  it  is  per- 
fectly clear ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  good  Brandy  to  each 
pint  of  Catsup,  and  let  it  stand  as  before ; — a  fresh  sediment 
will  be  deposited,  from  which  the  Catsup  is  to  be  quietly 
poured  off,  and  bottled  in  pints  or  half  pints,  (which  have 
been  washed  with  Brandy  or  spirit ;)  it  is  best  to  keep  it  in 
such  quantities  as  are  soon  used. 

Take  especial  care  that  it  is  closely  corked,  and  sealed 
down,  or  dipped  in  Bottle  Cement. 

If  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  it  may  be  preserved  for  a  long 

*  The  Squeezinc^  are  the  perquisite  of  the  Cook,  to  make  Saiioe  for 
the  Second  Table ;  do  bot  deprive  her  of  it,  it  is  the  most  profitable 
taveall  you  can  give  her,  and  \7ill  enable  her  to  make  up  a  ^ood 
Family  Dinner,  with  what  would  otherwise  be  wasted.  After  the  Mu$h- 
rooms  have  been  squeezed,  dry  them  *n  the  putch  oven,  and  niak^ 
Mushroom  Powdkb. 


336  CATSUPS. 

time  ;  but  if  it  be  badly  corked,  and  kept  in  a  damp  place, 
it  will  soon  spoil. 

Examine  it  from  time  to  time,  by  placing  a  strong  light 
behind  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  and  if  any  pellicle  appears 
about  it,  boil  it  up  again  with  a  few  peppercorns-. 

We  have  ordered  no  more  Spice,  &c.  than  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  feed  the  Catsup,  and  keep  it  from  fermenting,  &c. 

The  compound,  commonly  called  Catsup,  is  generally  an 
injudicious  combination  of  so  many  different  tastes,  that  the 
flavour  of  the  Mushroom  is  overpowered  by  a  farrago  of  Gar- 
lick,  Shallot,  Anchovy,  Mustard,  Horseradish,  Lemon -peel, 
Beer,  Wine,  Spice,  &c. 

Obs, — A  table-spoonful  of  Double  Catsup  will  impreg- 
nate half  a  pint  of  Sauce  with  the  full  flavour  of  Mushroom, 
in  much  greater  perfection  than  either  pickled,  or  powder  of 
mushrooms* 

ffe  have  bought  good  Mushroom  Catsup  at  Butler's  herb 
and  seed  shop^  opposite  Henrietta  Street^  Covent  Garden. 

Quintessence  of  Mushrooms. — (No.  440.) 

This  delicate  Relish,  is  made  by  sprinkling  a  little  salt 
over  either  flap  or  button  Mushrooms ; — three  hours  after, 
mash  them, — ^next  day,  strain  off  the  liquor  that  will  flow 
from  them,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  and  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced 
to  half. 

It  will  not  keep  long,  but  is  preferable  to  any  of  the  Cat- 
,  sups,  which  in  order  to  preserve  them,  must  have  Spice,  &c. 
which  overpowers  the  flavour  of  the  Mushrooms. 

•^n  Artificial  Mushroom  Bed  will  supply  this  all  the  year 
round. 

To  make  Sauce  with  this,  see  (No.  307.) 

Oyster  Catsup, — (No.  441.) 

Take  fine  fresh  Milton  oysters ;  wash  them  in  their  own 
liquor,  skim  it,  pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  to  a  pint 
of  Oysters  add  a  pint  of  Sherry,  boil  them  up,  and  add  an 
ounce  of  salt,  two  drachms  of  pounded  mace,  and  one  of 
Cayenne, — let  it  just  boil  up  again,  skim  it,  and  rub  it  throii^h 
a  sieve,  and  when  cold,  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well^  and  s^ 
it  down. 


CATSUF^.  337 

Oft*.— See  also  (No.  280^>  and  Oba.  to  (No.  278.) 
N*  B.  it  is  the  beat  iivay  to  pound  the  Salt  and  Spices,  &c. 
with  the  Oysters, 

06*. — This  composition  very  agreeably  heightens  the 
flavour  of  white  sauces,  and  white  made  dishes ;  and  if  you 
add  a  glass  of  brandy  to  ky  it  will  keep  good  for  a  consider- 
able  time  longer  than  Oysters  are  out  of  season  in  England. 

Cockle  and  Musole,  Catsup-^(l^o^  442.) 

May  be  made  by  treating  them  in  the  same  way  as  the 
03rsters  in  the  preceding  Receipt. 

Pudding  Ca««ip.— (No.  446.) 

Half  a  pint  of  Brandy,  '*  Essence  of  Punch''  (No.  479), 
or  "  Curagoa'*  (No,  474),  or  **  Moifeccuy'*  a  pint  of 
Sherry, 

An  ounce  of  thin  pared  Lemon  peel. 

Half  an  ounce  of  Mace. 
.  Steep  them  for  fourteen  days,  then  strain  it,  and  add  a 
quarter  pint  of  Capillaire,  or  (No.  475.)  This  will  keep  for 
years,  and,  mixed  with  meked  butter,  is  a  delicious  relish  to 
Puddings  and  Sweet  dishes.  See  Podding  Sauce  (Na.  269,) 
and  the  Jastice's  Otange  Syrap  (No.  392.) 

Potatoe*  Starch.— {^o.  448.) 

Peel,  and  wash  a  pound  of  full-grown  Potatoes,  grate  them 
on  a  bread  grater  into  a  deep  dish,  containing  a  quart  of 
clear  water;  stir  it  well  up,  and  then  pour  it  through  a  hair 
tueve,  and  leave  it  ten  minutes  to  settle,  till  the  water  is 
quite  clear :  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  a  quart  of 
fresh  water  to  it,  stir  it  up,  let  it  settle,  and  repeat  this  till 
the  water  is  quite  clear;  you  will  at  last  find  a  fine  white 
powder  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.     (The  criterion  of  this 


*  '<  Potatoes,  in  wbntever  conidition,  whether  spoiled  by  Frost, 
GermioatioD,  dkc,  provided  they  are  raw,  constantly  afford  Starch,  dit- 
fering  only  in  qiaality,  the  round,  grey  ones  the  moat,  a  pound  producing 
about  two  ounces.^' 

Parmentibr  on  Nutritive  yegetables,  8vo.  p.  31. 
<«  1001b.  of  Potatoes  yield  lOlb.  of  Starch.'' 
S.  Gra  v'g  Supplement  to  the  Pharmacppceia,  8vo.  1821.  p.  198. 

Q 


338  POTATOE  FIOUR. 

process  being  completed,  is  the  pnrity  of  the  water  tliat 
comes  from  it  af\er  stirring  it  up.)  Lay  this  on  a  sheet  of 
paper  in  a  hair  sieve  to  dry,  either  in  the  syn,  or  before  the 
fire,  and  it  is  ready  lor  use,  a^d  im  a  weU  stopped  bottle  will 
keep  good  for  many  months. 

If  this  be  well  made,  half  an  ounce  (t.  «•  a  table-spoonfal) 
•of  it  mixed  with  two  table-spoonsful  qf  cold  water,  and 
stirred  into  a  Soup  or  Sauce,  just  before  you  take  it  up,  will 
thicken  a  pint  of  it  to  the  consistence  of  Cream. 

O^.-9-Thvs  preparation  much  resembles  the  **  Indian 
Airow  Rooty  ^  and  is  a  good  substitute  for  it;  it  gives  a  ful- 
ness on  the  palate  to  Gravies  and  Sauces  at  hardly  any  ex- 
pense, and  by  some  is  used  to  thicken  Melted  Butter  instead 
of  Flour. 

As  it  is  perfectly  tasteless^  it  will  tiot  alter  the  flavour  of 
the  most  delicate  Broth,  &c. 

Op  the  Flour  of  Potatobsl, 

**  A  patent  has  been  recently  obtained  at  Pans,  a  gold 
medal  bestowed,  and  other  honorary  distinctions  granted,  for 
the  discovery  and  practice,  on  a  large  scale^  of  preparing 
from  potatoes  a  fine  flour ;  a  sago,  a  flour  equal  to  ground 
rice,  and  a  semolina  or  paste,  of  which  lib.  is  equal  to  1  ^Ib. 
rice,  l|lb.  vermicelli,  or,  it  is  asserted,  81bs.  of  raw  potatoes. 

**  These  preparations  are  found  valuable  to  mix  with 
wheaten  flour  for  bread,  to  make  biscuits,'  pastry,  pie-crasts, 
and  for  all  soups,  gruels,  and  panada. 

'*  iiarge  engagements  have  been  made  for  these  prepanh 
tions  with  the  French  marine,  and  military  and  other  hospi-i 
tals,  with  the  approba^tion  of  the  faculty. 

**  An  excellent  bread,  it  is  said,  can  be  made  of  this  ftoar, 
at  half  the  cost  of  wheaten  bread. 

"  Heat  having  beep  applied  in  these  preparations,  the 
articles  will  keep  unchanged  for  years,  and  on  board  ship,  -to 
China  and  back;  rais,  mice,  worms,  and  insects  do  not  in- 
fect or  destroy  this  flour. 

*^  Simply  mixed  with  cold  water,  they  are  in  ten  minutes 
fit  for  food,  when  fire  and  all  other  resource  maybe  wanted; 
and  twelve  ounces  are  suflicient  for  a  daVs  sustenancei  in 
pass  pf  necessity. 


,  CURRY  POWDfiR.  839 

<^  The  Physicians  and  Surgeons  in  the  Hospitals,  in  case 
of  great  debility  of  the  stomach,  have  employed  these  prepa- 
rations with  advantaee. 

•*  The  point  of  this  discovery  is,  the  cheapness  of  prepa-^ 
ration,  and  the  conversion  of  a  surplus  growth  of  potatoes  into 
i|  keeping  stoick,  in  an  elegant,  portable  and  salubrious  form.'^ 

Salads  or  Piquartte  Say^efor  Cold  Meat^  Fisfiy  ^c.r-r 
(No.  4-530     See  ^Iso  (No.  372.) 

Ifound  together 

An  ounce  of  scraped  Horseradish, 

Half  an  ounce  of  Salt, 

A  table-spoonful  of  made  Mustard  (No.  370.) 

Four  drachms  of  minced  Eshallots,  see  (No.  409.) 

Half  a  drachm  of  Celery  Seed,  see  (No.  409.) 

And  half  ditto  of  Cayenne,  see  (No.  404.) 

Adding  gradually  .a  pint  of  Burnet,  see  (No.  399),  or, 
Tiurragon  Vinegar  (No.  396),  and  let  it  stand  ii^  a  Jar  ^  -;veek, 
and  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve. 

Cnrry  Powder. — (No.  455.) 

Put  the  following  ingredients  in  a  cool  oven  all  night— > 
mad  the  next  morning  pound  them  in  a  mfirble  mortar,  an4 
rnb  them  through  a  fine  jsieve, 

d. 

Coriander  Seed,  three  ounces  .,..., • , . .  3 

Turmeric,  threeounces. . . » 6 

Black  Pepper,  lUustard,  and  Ginger,  one  ounce 

of  each 8 

Allspice  and  Lesser  Cardamoms,  half  an  ounce  of 

each.,. ...,,.....« ,....,..,  5 

Cummin  Seed,  a  quarter  ounce  •  • . , t  •   1 

Thoroughly  pound  and  mix  together,  and  keep  them  in  a 
wdl-stopped  bottle. 

Those  who  are  fond  of  Curry  Sauces,  may  steep  three 
.ounces  of  the  powder  in  a  quart  of  Vinegar  or  White  Wine 
for  ten  days,  ^nd  will  get  a  liquor  impregnated  with  all  the 
flavour  of  the  Powder. 

Obs, — ^This  receipt  was  an  attempt  to  imitate  some  of  the 
Pest  India  Curry  PovofUtf  selected  for  me,  by  a  friend  ?iti 

Q2 


340  RAOOVT  POWDBR. 

•the  India  House :— 4be  flavour  approximates  to  the  Indiaii 
Powder  so  exactly,  the  most  profound  Pakticians  have  prc^ 
nounced  it  a  perfect  copy  of  the  original  Cl*wy  Stuff, 

The  folbwiug  reniark  was  sent  to  the  Editor  by  an  East 
Indian  friend. 

**  The  inefredients  which  you  have  selected  lo  form  die 
Curry  Powper,  are  the  same  as  are  used  in  ledta^  with 
this  difierence  only,  that  some  of  them  are  in  a  raw  green 
state  and  are  mashed  together,  and  afterwards  dried  and 
powdered  and  sifted." — ^For  Currof  Sauce^  see  (No.  348.) 

N.  B.  Chickens, — Rabbits,  —  Sweetbreads,  —  Breasts  of 
Veal, — Veal  Cutlets, — Mutton, — Lamb,— or  Fork  Chops,— 
Lobster, — ^TUrbot, — Soles,— Eels, — Oysters,  &c.  are  dressed 
Curry  fashion^  see  (No.  497),  or  Stew  them  in  (No.  329  or 
348),  and  flavouring  it  with  (No.  455.) 

N.  B.  The  common  feult  of  Curry  Powder  is  tlie  too  great 
proportion  of  Cayenne,  (to  the  milder  Aromatics  from  mich 
.its  agreeable  flavour  is  derived),  preventing  a  suffident 
quantity  of  the  Curry  Powder  being  used. 

Savoury  RagoU  Awdw.— (No.  457.) 

*     Salt,  an  ounce, 

Afustard,  half  an  ounce, 

♦  Allspice,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce. 
Black  Pepper  ground,  and  Lemon  peel  grated,  or  of  (No. 

40i7),  poundod  and  sifted  fine,  half  an  ounce  each. 

Ginger,  and 

Nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  an  cmnee  each, 

Cayenne  Pepper,  two  drachms^ 

Pound  them  patientfy,  and  pass  them  through  a  fine  hair 
sieve ;  bottle  them  for  wse.  The  above  articles  will  pound 
easier,  and  finer,  if  they  are  dried  first  in  a  Dutch  ovenf 

*  If  you  like  tbe  flavour,  and  do  Qot  djslikjB  tbe  expense,  instead  of 
Allspice  put  in  Mace  and  Cloves.  The  above  is  very  similar  to  tbe 
JPewder-fort  used  in  Kiof^  Rjcfaard  tbe  Scoond'K  Kttcfami,  A.  B.  £300. 
See  *^  Ptggfi  Forme  qf  Cwryy'  p.  xxx. 

t  Tbe  back  part  of  these  Ovens  is  so  mucli  botter  than  tbat  which  is 
next  the  fire,  tbat  to  dry  things  equally,  their  situation  must  be  fre- 
•quently  changed,  or  those  at  tbe  back  of  tbe  oven  will  be  done  too 
inucbf  before  tbo«^  lathe,  front  an  done  enough. 


PBA  POWDER*  341 


Wbre  a  very  gende  fire,  at  a  good  distance  from  it  i^ffmi 
^€  tkem  hmcc/a  heat^  the  fine  flavour  of  them  will  be  pro^ 
eerUly  evapotaUd^  and  they  will  soofi  get  a  sti^iig  rank  empy* 
reamatic  taste. 

N.  B.  Infused  in  a  quart  oF  Vinegar  or  Wine,  they  make 
^  savoary  telish  iot  Soi^ps^  Sauces,  kc. 

Obs  • — ^The  Spices  in  a  Rcufo^Uwce  indispemable  to  git«  it 
a  flavour,  but  net  a  predominant  one ; — their  pres^te  should 
be  rather  supposed  than  perceived ;— they  are  the  inviiible 
spirit  of  good  Cookerv:  indeed^  a  Cook  without  Spice, 
would  be  as  much  at  a  loss,  as  a  Confectioner  without  Sugar  : 
—a  happy  mixture  of  them,  and  proportion  to  each  other, 
atid  the  other  ingreftients,  is  the  **  cAc/^omtre*'  of  afirst-rSite 
Cook. 

Tlveart  of  combining  Sfnces^  <&c.,  which  may  be  termed 
tlie  **  Harmomf  of  Flwomrs^^*  no  one  hitherto  hasattempted 
to  teach :  and  '*  the  ruk  of  Thwnb,^*  is  the  only  Guide  that 
experienced  Cooks  have  heretofore  given  for  the  assistance  of 
tiie  Novice^*^in  the  (till  now,  in  tl^  P^g^  explained,  and 
veadered,  we  hope,  perfectly  intelligible  to  tne  humblest 
cipactty,)  Occult  Art  of  Cookbry.*— 7%m  is  the  flrst 
time  Keoeipts  in  Cookery  have  been  given  aocnmlely  by 
^  Weight  or  Measure!  !  1 

'     (See  Obs.  on  « the  Education  of  a  Codes  Tongue;*' 
pages  48  and  49.) 

PEA  POWDER.— (No.  458.) 

Pound  together  in  a  marble  mortar,  half  an  ounce  each  of 
<)ried  Mint  and  Sage« — a  drachm  of  Celery  Seedy — and  a 
quarter  drachm  of  Cayenne  Pepper ;  rub  them  through  a 
fine  sieve.  This  gives  a  very  savoury  relish  to  Pease  Soup, 
and  to  Watei^-^ruel,  which,  hy  its  help,  if  the  eat^  of  it  has 
i^ot  the  most  lively  imagination,  he  may  fancy  he  is  sipping 
good  Pease  Soup. 

0&«.— A  drachm  of  Allspice,  or  Black  Pepper,  may  be 
pounded  with  the  above,  as  an  addition,  or  instead  of  the 
Cayenne. 

Horseradish  Pow&r.— (No.  458*.) 

The  time  to  make  tUa^  is  during  November  and  Decaeiober ; 


^^2  lioRSEiiXbidil  MWbE^. 

^ice  it  the  thickness  of  a  shilling,  and  lay  it  tc  dry  veirjf* 
gradually  in  a  Dutch  oven,  (a  strong  heat  soon  evaporates^iti 
flavour),. when  dry  enough,  pound  it  and  bottle  it. 
06«.— See  Horseradish  Vinegar.  (No.  399*. ) 

iSoup-hert)  Powder^  or  Veg^abUs  Relish. — (No.  459.)' 

pried  Parsley, 

Winter  Savory, 
:    Sweet  Marjoram, 

Lemon-thyme,  of  each  two  ounces^ 
:    Lemon-peel,  cut  veiy  thin  and  dried,  and 
.   Sweet  Basil,  an  ounce  of  each. 

•.  *«*  Some  hdd  to  the  ahoide  Bay^kai^i  arid  Celery  Setdi 
b  drachm  each, 

'  Dry  them  in  a  warm,  but  not  too  hot  Dutch  oven :  when 
qaite  dried^  pound  them  in  a-roortar,  and  pass  them  throi^ 
a.doublie  hair  sieve :  plit  in  a  bottle  closely  stopped,  they 
will  retain  their  fragrance  and  flavotir  for  severed  months. 

N..B.  These  Herbs  are  in  full  perfection  in  July  and 
August,  see  (No.  461  *.)  An  infitsion  of  the  above  in  Vine- 
^r  or  Winev  mkkes  a  good  relisbir^  Sailce,  but  the  ilavour 
is  best  when  made  with  fresh  gathered  herbs,  as  directed  in 
(No.  397.) 

O65.— ^This  composition  of  the  fine  aromatic  herbs^  is  an 
invaluable  acquisition  to  the  Cook,  in  thos^  seasons  or  situa^ 
tions  when  fresh  herbs  cannot  be  had ;  and  we  prefer  it  to 
the, Ragout  powder  (No.  457) :  it  impregnates  sauce,  soup, 
ike.  with  as  much  relish,  aiid  rendera  it  aorreeable  to  the 
palate,  and  refreshes  the  gustatory  nerves,  without  so  modi' 
risk  of  offeiiding  the  Stomach,  ^c.  ,      '  '       ' 

Sovp^herb  and  Savoury  Powder^  or  Quintessence  of.  RatioHt^ 

(No.  460.)  . 

Take  three  parts  of  Soup-herb  powder  (No.  459),  to  one 
part  of  Savoury  powder  (No.  457). 

Obs. — This  agreeable  combination  of  the  aromatic  Spices 
and  Herbs  should  b^  kept  ready  prepared;  it  will  save ;( 
great  deal  of  time  in  cooking  Ragouts,  Stuffings,  Forcemeat- 
tails,   Soups,  Sauces,  &c. ;    kept  dry  and  tightly  worked 


bfty  sVirsfiT  iIerbs.  343 

^oilen,  its  fragrance  and  strerigth  may  be  preserved  undU 
minished  for  some  time. 

N.B.  Three  ounces  of  the  above  will  inlpregnate  a  quart 
of  Vinegar  or  Wine  with  a  very  agreeable  relish. 

To  Dry  Sweet,  and  Savoury  Herbs. — (Na.  461.) 

•  JPor  the- fdllowing  accurate  and  vahiahh  Information  tht 
Reader  is  indebted  to  Mr.  Butler,  Herbalist  and  Seedsman, 
fopposile  Henrietta  Street,)  Covent  Garden  Market,  of  whom 
the  several  articles  may  be  obtained  of  the  best  Quality,  at 
the  fair  Market 'Price. 

•*  It  is  very  important  to  those  who  are  not  in  the  constant 
hahit  of  attending  the  markets,  to  know  when  the  various 
seasons  commence  for. purchasing  sweet  h)e:rbs. 

**  All  Vegetables  are  ill  the  hiahest  state  of  perfectiofiy  and 
fiblltet  of  juice  and  flavour,  just  before  they  begin  to  flower : 
— the  first  and  last  crop  have  neither  the  fine  flavour  nor 
the  perfume  of  th6s(B  which  are  gathered  in  the  height  of  th« 
season ;  that  is,  when  the  greater  part  of  the  crop  of  each 
species  is  ripe. 

i^'^lPake  Care  they  are  gathetfed  on  a  dry  day,  by  which 
mecms  they  will  have  a  better xioloiir  when  dried.  Cleanst 
your  herbs  well  from  dirt  and  dust*  cut  off  the  roo'ts^  sepa* 
rate  the  bunches  into  smaller  ones,  and  dry  them  by  th» 
lieiit  of  a  stove,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  common  fir^,  in 
such  qti^tities  at  a  time,  that  the  process  may  be  speedily 
fimished,  t.  c.  •*  Kill  *m  gwtcA,"  ?ays  a  great  Botanist ; — by 
this  means,  their  flavour  will  be  best  preserved; — there  can 
be  no  doubt  of  the  .propriety  of  drying  herbsy  &c.  hastily,  by 
the  aid  of  artificial  heat  rather  than  by  the  heat  of  the  sun. 
In  the.  application  of  artificial  heat,  the  only  caution  requi-^ . 
site  is  to  avoid  burning ;  and  of  this,  a  sufficient  test  is  af- 
forded by  the  preservation  of  the  colour."— rThe  common 
custom  IS,  when  they  are  perfectly  dried,  to  put  them  in 
Bags,  and  lay  them  in  a  dry  place,  but  the  best  way  to  pre- 

*  Thtt  is  sadly  neglected  by  those  who  dry  herbs  for  sale.  If  70U 
buy  tfaem  ready  dried,  before  you  pound  them,  cleanse  ttiem  from  dirt 
afed  dnst,  by  stripping  the  leaves  from  the  stalks,  and  rub  them  between 
your  bands  over  a  hair  8ieve,-^pat  them  into  the  siev^,  and  shalu 
Uiem  well^  and  the  dust  Will  go 'through. 


344  FiCKLBs* 

serve  the  flavour  of  aromatic  plaatSy  is  to  pick  off  the  leaver 
as  soon  as  they  are  dried,  aoa  to  pouod  tb!ao  and  put  them 
throueb  ahair  sieve,  and  keep  them  in  well«-6tD{^ped  Bottles,* 
see  (No.  459). 

Basil  is  in  the  best  state  for  drying  from  the  middle  of 
AogiMtf  and  thrae  weeks  after,  see  (No.  397.) 

Knotted  Marjobam,  from  the  beginning  of  Jufy^  and 
during  the  same. 

Winter  Savory,  the  latter  end  of  My,  and  throughout 
August,  see  Obs.  to  (No.  397,) 

Summer  Savory,  the  latter  end  of  July,  and  throughout 
August. 

Thyme, 

Lemon-Thyme, 

Oranqb^Thyme,!  daring  June  and  July* 

Mint,  latter  end  of  June,  and  during  Jn^,  see  (No*398w) 

Sage,  August  and  September. 

Tarragon,  June,  July,  August,  see  (No.  396.) 

Chervil,  May,  June,  July,  see  (No.  264.) 

Burnet,  June,  July,  August,  see  (No.  399). 

Parsley,  May,  June,  and  Jdy,  see  N.  B*  t6  (No.  261.) 

Fennel,  May,  June,  July* 

Elder  Flowers,  May,  June,  July. 

Orange  Flowers,  Mav,  Jane,  July, 

N.B.  Herbs  nicely  driea^  are  a  very  acceptable  substitute 
when  fresh  ones  cannot  be  got, — ^but,  however  caref^y 
dried,  the  flavour  and  fragrance  of  the  fresh  herbs  is  incom- 
parably finer. 

PICKLES.^(No.  462.) 

Commencing  the  list  with  Walnuts,  I  must  take  this  op- 
portunity of  impressiug  the  necessity  of  being  strictly  par- 
ticular in  watchm?  the  due  season ;  for  of  all  the  variety  of 
articles  in  this  (kpartment,  to  furnish  the  well-regulated 
store-room,  nothing  is  so  precarious,-r-for  frequently  after 
the  first  week  that  Walnuts  come  in  season,  they  l)ecome 

*  The  common  custom  is/ to  put  tbem  into  paper  bags,  and  lay  Uiein 
OB  a  shelf  in  the  Kitchen,  exposed  to  all  the  fumes,  steara^  and  smolov 
&se. :  thus  they  soon  lose  their  flavour. 

t  A  delicious  herb,  that  deserves  to  be  better  ^owd* 


hard  and  shelled,  particularly  if  the  season  is  a  very  hot  oiie : 
therefyre  let  the  prudent  housekeeper  consider  it  indispens- 
ably necessary  they  should  be  purchased  as  soon  as  they  first 
appear  at  market  ;-^Hshou2d  they  cost  a  trifle  more,  that  is 
nothing  compared  to  the  disappointment  of  findii^six  months 
hence,  when  you  go  to  your  pickle  jar  expecting  a  fine  re<» 
lish  for  your  Chops,  &c.y  to  find  the  nuts  incased  in  a  shell, 
which  defies  both  teeth  andtteel:  I  therefore  recommend 
you  to  look  for  Walnuts  from  the  twelfth  qfJuJfg;  that 
beii:^  I  may  say,  the  earliest  possible  time* 

Nasturtiums  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July*^ 
GarucK,  from  Midsummer  to  Michaelmas. 

ESHALLOTSy  ditto* 

Onions,  the  various  kinds  for  pickHng,  are  to  be  had  by 

the  middle  of  July,  and  for  a  month  after* 
Gherkins  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for 

amonthafier. 
Cucumbers  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for 

a  month  after. 
Melons  and  Manooss  are  to  be  had  by  the  middle  of 
'  July,  and  for  a  month  after.  ^ 
Capsicums,  green,  red,  and  yellow,  the  end  of  July,  and 

following  month. 
Chilies,  the  end  of  July,  and  following  month.    See 
,     (Nos.  404  and  405*  and  No.  405**,) 
Love  Apples,  or  Tomatas,  end  of  July,  andthrough-^ 

out  August.     See  (No.  443.) 
Cauliplower,  for  pickling,  July  and  August. 
Artichokes,  for  pickling,  July  and  Augusts 
Jerusalem  Artichokes^  for  pickling,  July  and  August, 

and  for  three  months  after. 
Radish  Pods,  for  pickling,  July. 
French  Beans,  ibrpidding,  July. 
Mushrooms,  for  pickling  and  catsup,  September.    See 

(No.  439.) 
Red  Cabbage^  August* 
White  Cabbage,  September  and  October. 
Samphire,  August. 
Horseradish,  Norember  and  December. 

For  Receipts  for  Pickling,  see  the  Appendix. 

«5 


346 


MAGAZmS  OF  TASTE. 


THE  MAGAZINE  OF  TASTE.— (No.  463.)  ' 

This  U  a  convenient  auxiliary  to  the  Cook— It  maty  be  ar«» 
hmged  as  a  pyramidical  Epergne  for  a  Dormant  in  the  cen- 
tre of  the  table,  or  as  a  TVavetUng  Store  Chest. 
.  The  following  Sketch  will  enable  any  one  to  fit  up  an  as^ 
tookment  of  flavouring  materia!!  according  to  their  own  fiaacy 
aiid  palate,  and  we  presume,  will  furnish  sufficient  variety 
for  the  amusement  of  the  gustatory  nerves  of  a  thorough^ 
bred  Grand  Gourmand  of  the  first  magnitude,  (if  Cayemi 
and  Garlick — have  not  completely  consumed  the  sensibility 
of  his  Palate,)  and  consists  of  a  "Saucebox,*^  containing 
feikr  eight^ounce  bottles,*  sixteen  four-ounce^  and  eight 
two-ounce  bottles : 


i 

2 

a 

4 


Pickles. 
B  randy,  t 

Cura<?Qa(No.474.) 
Syrup  (No.  475.) 
Salad  Sauce    (Nos.  372   and 
453.) 

p  Pudding  Catsup  (No.  446.) 
^  ffauoe  Superlative,  or  doubfo 

reiisb  (No.  429.) 
B  Walnut  pickle. 
d  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439.) 
10.  Vinegar. 

11  Oil. 

12  Mustard,  see   (Nos.  370  and 

427.) 

13  Salt,  see  (Nog.  371.) 


14  Curry  Powder  (No.  455.) 

15  Soy  (No.  4J6.) 

16  Lenion  Juice. 

17  Essence  of  ADchoTy  (No.  433.) 

18  Pepper. 

19  Cayenne(No^.40^,  Qr40$**.) 

20  Soup-herb  Powder  (Ng.  45«.) 

21  nagoiit  Powder  ^No.  45^.) 

22  Pea  Powder  (No.  458.) 
28  Zest  (No  255.) 

24  Essence  oi' Celery  (No.  409.) 

25  Sweet  Herbs  (No.  419.) 

26  Lemon  Peel  (No.  408.) 

27  Eshallot  Wine  (No.  402.) 

28  Powdered  Mint). 


fn  a  drawer  ttmde^. 


Half  a  dozen  one  ounce  bottles. 

Weights  and  scales. 

A  graduated  glass  measure,  divided 

into  tea  and  table-spooos. 
t^orkscrew. 


Nutmeg  graterv 
Table  and  tea^pooni- 
Knife  and  fork. 
A  steel,  and  a 
Small  mortar. 


If  the  bottles  Are  square,  and  marked  to  quarter  ounces,  as  Ltnb's 
*  i  Sfu^**  measures  are,  it  will  save  trouble  in  compounding 

T  The  finest  Brasot  I  have  ever  tasted,  I  have  from  MrJff.  Kv4e, 
Wo.  6'^  Mark  Lane. 


HAGAZINfi  OF  TASTB. 


347 


.1 

6 

13 

■ii 

6 

14 

22 

2 

7 

15 

23 

8 

16 

24 

• 

3 

4 

17 

25 

10 

18 

28 
27 

.    4 

11 

19 

12 

20 

28 

N.B.  The  portable  Magazine  oF  Taste  alluded  to  in 
^age  3P,  may  be  furnished  'i^th — a  four-ouncie  bottle  for 
iJogniac  (No.  471), — ^a  ditto  for  Cumgoa  (No.  474),  an 
ounce  bottle  for.  Essence  of  Jlnchovy  (No.  433), — and  one  of 
like  size  for  Mushroom  Catsup.    ^ 

Toast  and  Water,— {No,  463*0 

Cut  a  Crust  of  Bread  bflf  a  stale  loaf,  about  twice  the . 
thickness  toast  is  tisually  cut,  to^st  it  carefully  until  it  be . 
completely  browned'  all  over,  but  not  at  all  blackened  or , 
burnt :  pour  as  much  boiling  water  as  you  wish  to  make 
into  drink,  into  the  Jt^,  put  the  Toast  into  it,  and  let  it 
stand  till  it  is  quite  cold :  the  fresher  it  is  the  better. 

Obs.: — A  roll  of  thin  fresh  cut  Lemon  or  dried  Orange  Pieel, 
or  some  Currant  Jelly  (No.  475*),  Apples  sliced  or  roasted,  , 
&c.  infused  with  the  bread,  are  grateful  additioiis.     N.B.  If 
the  boiling  water  be  poured  on  the  Bread  it  will  break  it, 
and  make  the  drink  grouty. 

N.Bl  This  is  a  refreshing  Summer  tyrink ;  and  whett  the 
proportion  of  the  fluids  is  destroyed  by  profuse  perspiration  * 
—may  be  drunk  plentifully.  Let  a  large  jug  be  made  early 
in  the  day — it  will  then  become  warmed  by  the  heat  of  the 
air,  and  may  be  drunk  without  danger— which  water,  Cold 
as  it  comes  from  the  well,  cannot  in  Hot  weather. 

Or, 

To  make  it  more  expeditiously,  put  the  bread  into  £i  mug, 


348  BEKR  COP« 

and  just  cover  it  with  boiUng  water :  let  it  stand  till  (Kik!# 
then  fill  it  up  with  cold  spring  water,  and  pour  it  through  a 
fine  sieve. 

Ohs. — ^The  above  is  a  pleasant  and  excellent  beverage, 
grateful  to  the  Stomach,  and  deserves  a  constant  place  by  the 
Bedside. 

Ck)ol  Tankard,  or  ^e<i|  C^p.— (No.  464.) 

A  quart  of  mild  Ale,  a  glass  of  white  Wiae,  one  of 
Brandy,  one  of  Capillaire,  the  juice  of  a  LeiQon,  a  roll  of 
the  Peel  pared  thin,  Nutm^  grated  at  the  top,  (a  sprig  oi 
Borrage^  or  Balm,)  and  a  bit  of  toasted  Bread. 

Cider  Cttp— (No.  465.) 
Is  the  same,— only  substituting  Cider  for  Beer, 

Ki^_(No.  466.) 

Keep  grated  Ginger  and  Nutmeg  with  a  little  fine  dried 
Lemon  Peel  rubbed  together  in  a  mortar. 

To  make  a  quart  of  Flip  ^^^^Hit  the  Ale  on  the  fire  to 
warm,-— and  beat  up  three  or  four  'E&^  with  four  ounces  of 
moist  Sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  grated  Nntmes  or  Ginger,  and 
a  quartern  of  good  old  Rum  or  Brandy.  When  the  Ale  is 
near  to  boil,  put  it  into  one  pitcher,  and  the  Knm  and  EggSr 
&c.  into  another ; — ^tum  it  from  one  pitcher  to  aoothec  till  it 
is  as  smooth  as  Cream. 

N.B.  This  quantity  I  styled  One  Yard  ofFUmneL 

Ohs. — The  above  is  giveo  in  the  words  of  the  Publican 
who  gave  us  the  Receipt, 

7Wa^di^2e.— (No.  467.) 
A  pint  of  Table  Beer,  (or  Ale,  if  you  intend  it  for  a  sup- 


'■      ••»•■»»•••■•■*•"•»— »l(»—^"."*W»WI—«»W»i^'^»»—*«Wi*»^" 


*  <<  BoRRAOE  is  oie  of  the  four  CordialHoimfn  f  it*Qo«foili  tfic 
heart,  cheers  melaiict]»iy,  and  revives  the  faintiag  spirits,  says  Sahooiiy 
in  ^e  45th  p%e  of  hb  <*  Household  Companian^  London,  1710. 
And  £vTi(VH,  in  pqge  la  ol  hi»  Aee$9ria,  says, "  the  sprfgs,  in  wine,  vn 
of  known  virtue  t»  revive  the.  HjpoiibonartBC,  tad  ofeaeer  th»  haid 
Student.*' -Combined  with  the  ingredients  in  the  above  Receipt,  we 
have  frequently  observed  it  producet  afi  the  Cardiac  aad  SxhilaratiDf; 
effects  ascribed  to  it. 


TO  40TTi.K  BEER.  349 

piement  to  your  ^  Night  Cap/')  a  taUe-spoonfid  of  Brandy, 
said  a  tea-spoonful  of  brown  Sugar*  or  clarified  Syrup 
(No.  475 ;) — a  little  grated  Nutmeg  or  Ginger,  may  be 
added,  and  a  roll  of  Ycry  thin  cut  Lemon  FeeL 

06^.-— Before  onr  readers  make  any  remarks  on  this  Com* 
position,  we  bep;  of  them  to  taste  it;  if  the  materials  are 
good,  and  their  palaite  vibrate  in  unison  with  our  own, 
they  will  find  it  one  of  the  pleasantest  beverages  they  ever 
put  to  their  lips,-^-and,  as  Lord  RiUkven  says,  **  this  is 
a  Right  Gossip's  Cup,  that  far  exceeds  aU  the  Ale  that  ever 
MoTHBR  Bunch  made  in  her  lifMime*"— Stee  hia  Lord- 
ship's Experiments  in  Cookery y  Sfc  ISmo.  London,  1654, 
pa^  215. 

Sir  FiiSETWoon  Shkphei&d's^  Sack  Possst. 

(No.  467*4 

*^  From  {^ta^i  Barbadoes  on  tbe  western  main 
Fetch  Sugar  ounces  four— -feich  Seek  fcom  Spnn^ 
A  pint,'*-^uad  from  the  Eastern  Indian  Coast 
Nutmeg,  tbe  glory  of  our  northern  toast  $ 
O'er  flaming  Coals  let  them  together  heat. 
Till  the  aU-oonquering- &LciE  di9solf«  the  Sweet ;        - 
O'er  such  another  fire,  put  Eggs  just  ten, 
>ew-born  from  tread  of  Cock  and  Rump  of  Hen : 
Stir  them  with  steady  hand  and  consctenoe  pricking 
To  see  the  untimely  end  of  ten  fine  Chicken ; 
From  shining  shelf  take  down  the  brazen  skillet,— 
A  quart  of  eSik  fl'ora  gentle  cow  will  ftU  it. 
Whenboird  and  caJd,  put  nilk  and  Sack  to  Bggs, 
Unite  tJtom  firmly  lik^  th»  triple  league, 
And  on  the  fire  let  them  together  dwell 
Till  Miss  sing  twice-^-you  must  not  Idss  and  tell— 
Each  lad  ana  lass  take  tip  a  silver  spoon, 
And  fiill  on  ileiodly  Kko  a  starved  Dragoon/' 

To  hoUle  Beer,— (No.  468.) 

Whoi  the  briflkaess  and  liveliness  of  ns^t  liqucn  in  the 
cask  fail,  and  they  become  dead  and^  yapid,  which  they 
gsnendly  do  soon  after  they  are  tilted^ — ^letthem  he  BottledL 

Be  careful  to  u«e  dean  aiod  carted  hcaHet;  leave  them  uii-^ 
shopped  for  twmre  hours^  and  then  cork  them  as  closely  as 
posahle  with  good  cout  souMd  new  Corks  ;  pot  a  bit  of  Ivaap 
sugar  as  big  as  a  nutmeg  into  each  bottk :  tbe  Beer  will  be 


350  •       LlQUStflUi. 

ripe,  K  e.  fine  and  tparkling,  ia  about  four  or  five  weeks; 
if  the  weather  £i  roM,  to  put  it  up,  the  day  before  it  is  drtrnkf 
place^it  in  A  room  where  there  is  a  Fire, 

Remember  tbere  is  a  sediment,  &c.  %Lt  the  bottom  of  the 
Botdes,  which  you  must  carefully  avoid  disturbing,— «o 
pom  it  off  at  once,  leaving  a  wine'-glassful  at  the  bottom. 

♦^*  If  Beer  becomes  Hard  or  Stale^  a  few  grains  of  Cbr- 
bonate  ofPotcuh,  added  to  it  at  the  time  it  is  drank^  wUl 
amrect  tt^  and  make  Draught  Beer  as  brisk  ca  BotUed  Ah* 

Rich  Raspberry  Wtne  or  Brandy, — (No.  469.) 

Bruise  the  finest  ripe  Raspberries  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
utrain  them  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  stone  jar,  allowing  a 
Povnd  of  fine  powdered  Loaf  Sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice ; 
i»tir  it  well  together,  and  cover  it  down ;  let  it  stand  for  three 
days,  stirring  it  up  each  day ;  pour  off  the  clear,  and  put 
two  quarts  of  Sherry,  or  one  of  Cogniac  Brandy,  to  each 
qtiart  of  juice ;  bottle  it  off:  it  will  be  fit  for  the  glass  in  a 
fortnight. 

N.B.  Or  make  it  with  the  Jelly  (No.  479.) 

LtQUEtJRSw — (No.  47 1.) 

We  have  .very  little  to  tell  from  our  own  experience,  and 
tefer  our  Reader  to  **  Nouvelle  Chimies  du  Gout  et  de 
l*Odorat,  ott  VArt  du  DistiUateur^  du  Omfiseurj  et  du 
Parfam^urf  mis  d  la  portee  de  tout  le  Mondcy^ — ^Paris, 
2tom.  8vo.  1819. 

Next  to  teaching  how  to  make  good  things  at  home,  is  the 
information  where  those  things  may  be  procured  ready  made 
of  the  best  quality. 

It  is  in  vain  to  attempt  to  imitate  the  best  Foreign 
Liqueurs,  unless  we  can  obtain  the  pure  vinous  spirit  with 
which  they  are  made. 

.  Johnson  and  Co.,  Foreign  Liqueur  and  Brandy  Met" 
ehants  to  his  Majesty  and  the  Royal  Family ^  No.  2,  Colon- 
nade, Pall  Mall,  are  justly  famous  for  importing  of  the  best . 
quality,  and  selling  in  a  genuine  state^  seventy-one  varieties 
Qf  FoBBiQN  Liqueurs,  &c. 


OLARIFIED  8YRUP.  35 1 

turagoa, — (No.  474.) 

Put  five  ounces  of  thin  cut  Seville  Orange  Peel,  that.hias 
been  dried  and  pounded,  or  which  is  still  better,  of  the  fresh 
Peel  of  afresh  Shaddicky  ^yhich  may  be  bought  at  the  Orange 
and  Lemon  Shops  in  the  beginning  of  March,  into  a  quart  of 
the  finest  uod  cleanest  Rectified  Spirit, — after  it  has  been  in- 
fiised  a  fortnight,  strain  it,  and,  add  a  quart  of  Syrup  (No. 
475,)  and  filter ;  see  the  following  Receipt :— ^     . 

To  make  a  Quart  of  Cwragoa. 

.  To  a  ^int  of  the  cleanest  and  strongest  Redtifki  Spirit^ 
add  two  drachtns  and  a  half  of  the  Su^t  Oil  of  Orange  Peels' 
shake  it  up,— <iissolve  a  pound  of  good  Lump  Sugar  in  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  make  this  into  a  Clarified  Sytup  (No.  475,) 
which  add  to  the  Spirit,  shake  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
following  day — then  line  a  funnel  with  a  piece  of  muslin,  and 
that  with  filtering  paper^  and  filter  it  two  or  three  times  till  it 
is  quite  bright.  This  Liqueur  is  an  admirable  cordial— and 
a  tea-spoonful  in  a  tumbler  of  water,  is  a  very  refreshing 
Summer  Drink,  and  a  great  improvement  to  Punch* 

Clarified  Syrap.^l^o.  47^.) 

Break  into  bits  two  Pounds  (avoirdupois)  of  dotible '  rei. , 
fined  Lump  Sugar,  and  pUt  it  into  a  clean  stewpan  (that  is 
well  tinned,)  with  a  pint  of  cold  spring  water ;  when  the 
Sugar  is  dissolved,  s^t  it  over  a  moderate  fire :  beat  about 
half  the  white  of  an  Egg,  put  it  to  the  Sugar  before  it  gets 
warm,  and,  stir  it  well  together.  Watch  it,  and  when  it  lK>ils 
take  off  th6  scum  ;  keep  it  boiling  till  no  scum  rises,  and  it 
is  perfectly  clear,  then  run  it  through  a  dean  napkin  •:  put  it 
into  a  close-stopped  bottle ;  it  will  keep  for  months,  and  is 
an  Elegant  Article  on  the  Sideboard  for  Sweetening. 

06*,^— The '  proportion  of  Sugar  ordered  in  the  above 
Syrup,  is  a  quarter  pound  more  than  that  directed  in  •  the 
Pharmacopoeia  of  the  London  College  of  Physicians.  The 
q[uantity  of  Sugar  must  be  as  much  as  the  liquor  is  capabfe 
«f  keeping  dissolved  when   cold,  or  it  will  ferment,  and 


352  PUNCH  DIBBGTLY« 

quickly  spoil ;  if  kept  in  a  temperate  degree  of  heat,  the 
above  proportion  of  Sugar  may  be  considered  the  basis  of 
all  Syrups. 

Cdpt/Zaim— (No.  476.) 

To  a  pint  of  Cfauiiied  Syrup  add  a  winegbuw  of  Cura9oa 
(No.  474,)— or  disiolye  a  drachm  of  Oil  (tf  Kercli  in  two 
ounces  of  Rectified  Spirit,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  it  to 
Clarified  Syrup. 

Lbmonadb  in  a  Jftnti/e.— (No.  477.) 

Pound  a  quarter  of  an  ounee  (avoirdupois)  of  Critie,  t.  «. 
crystallized  Lemoa  Acid,*  with  a  few  drops  of  quintessence 
of  Lemon  Peel  (No.  408,)  and  mix  it  by  degrees  with  a  pint 
of  Clarified  Syrup  (No.  47by)  or  Capillaire. 

For  Superlative  Syrup  of  Lemons^  see  (No.  391  •)- 

Obs. — The  proportion  of  Acid  to  the  Symp,  was  that  se- 
lected (from  several  specimens)  by  the  Committbe  op 
Taste.  We  advise  those  who  are  disposed  to  yerify  our 
Receipt,  to  mix  only  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  Syrcqp  first, 
and  add  the  other  quarter  if  they  find  it  too  Acid* 

If  you  have  none  of  (No.  408,)  flavour  your  Syrup  with 
thin  cut  Lemon  Peel,  or  use  Syrup  of  Lemon  Peel  (No.  393.) 

A  table-spoonful  of  this  in  a  pint  of  water  will  imme- 
diately produce  a  very  agreeable  Sherbet ;  the  addition  of 
Rum  and  Brandy  will  convert  this  into 

Punch  directly, — (No.  478.) 

Shrub,  or  Essence  of  Punch, — (No.  479*) 

Brandy  or  Rum,  flavoured  with  (No.  477,)  will  give  you 
vary  good  Extempore  "  Essence  op  Punch.'* 

Oij.—- The  addition  of  a  qusrt  of  Sherry  or  Madeira  makes 
"Punch  Royal;"  i^  instead  of  Wine,  the  above  quantity 

*  Tarkaie  is  only  half  tbe  price  of  Citric  Acid— but  it  is  very  iofe^ 
rior  iQ  fiftTour,  Ac. ;  and  tiose  wbo  prepare  this  Sytvsp  for  Home  Coo- 
sumption,  wiU  always  ust  tb^  Citric,. 


CURRANT  JEXXY.  3$3 

of  Wafer  be  added,  it  will  make  "  Punch  for  Chambermaids^^* 
according  to  Salmon's  Cookery^  8vo.  London,  1710 ;  see 
page  405 ;  and  (No.  268,)  in  Nott's  Cook's  Dictionary, 
8vo.  1724. 

White,  Red,  or  Bkckr^Ckrrant,'-^Ghnp€,'--^Raspherry,  ^. 

JeUy—(M.  479*.) 

Are  all  made  precisely  in  the  same  manner*  When  the 
fruit  is  full  ripe,  ^ther  it  on  a  dry  day; — ^as  soon  as  it  is 
atcely  picked,  put  it  into  a  Jar,  and  cover  it  down  very  close. 

Set  tne  Jar  in  a  Saacepan  about  three  parts  filled 'with  cold 
water ;  put  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  ibr  about 
half  an  hour.  Take  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  pour  the  con- 
tents of  the  Jar  into  a  Jelly-Bag :  pass  the  jmce  through  a 
second  time ; — (do  not  squeeze  £e  cag.) 

To  each  Pint  of  juice  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  very  good 
Ltunp  Sugar  pounded ;  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  it  into  a 
preserving  pan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  gently,  stining  and 
skimming  it  the  whole  time,  (about  thirty  or  forty  minutes,) 
».  e,  tiU  no  more  scum  rises, — and  it  is  perfectly  clear  and 
fine ;  pour  it  while  warm  into  pots, — and  when  cold,  cover 
them  with  paper  wetted  in  Branay. 

Half  a  pint  of  this  Jelly,  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  Brandy  ^ 
Vinegar,  will  give  you  excellent  Currant  or  Raspberry  Brandy 
or  Vinegar.    To  make  Sweet  Sauce,  (No.  346.) 

Obs. — ^Jellies  fr<mi  other  fruits  are  made  in  the  same 
loay,— 9nd  cannot  be  preserved  in  perfection  without  plenty 
of  good  Sugar. 

Those  who  wish  Jelly  to  turn  out  very  afi^,-— dissolve  Isin- 
glass in  a  litde  water,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  it  in 
the  proportion  of  half  an  ounce  to  a  pint  of  Juice,  and  put  it 
in  with  the  Sugar. 

The  best  way  is  the  cheapest, — Jellies  made  with  too 
small  a  proportion  of  Sugar — require  boiling  so  long— there 
ir  much  more  waste  of  juice  and  flavour  by  evaporation  than 
the  due  quantity  of  Sugar  costs ;  and  they  neither  look  nor 
taste  halt  so  delicate,  as  when  made  with  a  proper  propor** 
iton  of  Sugar,  and  moderate  boiling. 


S34  fcALVES*-FEEf  JlkLiV« 

Mock  Arrack.— (iHo.  480.) 

Dissolve  two  scruples  of  flowers  of  Benjamin  in  a  quart  ot 
good  Rum,  and  it  will  immediately  impart  to  it  the  inviting 
rragrance  of  "  Vauxhall  Nectar." 

CcUves'-feet  Jelly.— (^o:4Sl.) 

Take  four  Calves*  Feet,  (not  those  which  are  sold  at  Tripe^ 
shops,  which  have  been  boiled  till  almost  all  the  Gelatine  is 
extracted,— but  buy  them  at  tfie  Butcher's;)  slit  them  in 
two,  take  away  the  Fat  from  between  the  claws,  wash  them 
well  in  lukewarm  water,  then  put  them ,  in  a  lai^e  stein^pan, 
and  cover  them  with  water ;  when  the  liquor  boils,  skim  it 
well,  and  let  it  boil  gently  six  or  seven  hours,  that  it  may  he. 
reduced  to  about  two  quarts,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
and  skim  all  the  oily  substance  which  is  on  the  surface  of 
tlie  liquor. 

If  you  are  not  in  a  hurry,  it  is  better  to  Ixxl  the  Calves'  feet 
the  day  Wfore  you  .make  the  Jelly,  as  when  the  liquor  b 
cd^cl,  the  oily  part  being  at  the  top,  and  the  other  beiog 
firm,  with  pieces  of  kitchen  paper  applied  to  it,  you  may  re- 
move every  particle  of  the  oily  substance,  without  wasting 
any  of  the  Liquor. 

Put  the  L|quor  in  a  stewpaii  to  melt,  with  a  pound  of 
Lump^  Sugar,'  the  peel  of  two  Lemons,  the.juiceot  six,  six 
whites  of  Eggs  and  shells  beat  together,  and  a  bottle  of 
Sherry  or  Madeira;  whisk  the  whole  together  until  it  is  on 
the  boil,  then  put  it  hy  the  side  of  the  stove,*  and  let  it  siin- 
iner  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  strain  it  through  a  Jelly-bag ;  what 
is  strained  first  ipust  be  poured  into  the  hdag  again,  until  it  is 
as  l)right  and  as  clear  aS  rock  water ;  then  put  the  Jelly  in 
moulds^  to,  be  cold  and  firm ;  if  the  weather  is  too  warm,  it 
Requires  some  ice. 

Obs. — When  it  is  required  to  be  very  stiff,  half  an  ounce 
of  Isinglass  may  be  added  wh^n  the  Wine  is  put  in. 

It  may  ba  flavoured  by  the  juice  of  various  Fruits,  &c.  and 
Spices,  &c.'  and  coloured  with  Saffron, — Cochineal, — ^Red 
Beet  Juice,-^Spinage  Juic^, — Claret,  &c. — abd  it  is  som«* 


fcALVES'-iFfeET  jfeLLV.  355 

times  made  with  Cherry  Brandy,  or  Xoyeau  Rouge^'-^T 
Curapoa  (No.  474),  or  £ftence  of  Punch  (No.  479),  instead 
of  Wine. 

N.B.  Ten  Shank  Bonbs  of  Mutton,  which  maybe 
bought  for  2\d,y  will  give  as  much  Jelly  as  a  Calf's  foot, 
Which  costs  a  ShUlingi — See  nine  lines  fromjhe  top  of  page 
267  t>f  this  work; 


TH& 

COOK'S   ORACLE. 


MADE  DISHES,  <fec. 


Receipts  for  Economical  Made  Dishes,  written  for  the 
CooK*s  Oracle — by  an  accomplished  English  Lady. 
—{No.  483.) 

These  Experiments  have  arisen  from  my  aversion  to  Cold 
Meaif  and  my  preference  of  what  are  termed  French 
Dishes  ;  with  which  (by  a  certain  management)  T  think  I  can 
furnish  my  table  at  far  less  expense — ^than  is  generally  in- 
curred in  getting  up  a  Plain  Dinner. 

Gravy  or  Soup  Meats  I  never  buy, — and  yet  am  seldom 
without  a  good  provision  of  what  is  technically  denominated 
Stock. 

When,  as  it  frequently  happens,  we  have  Ham  dressed,  if 
the  Joint  be  above  the  weight  of  seven  pounds,  I  Ml^e  it  cat 
in  half,  and  prepared  in  the  following  manner: — First, 
ensure  that  it  has  been  properly  soaked,  scraped,  and  cleaned 
to  a  nicety, — then,  put  it  into  an  Earthen  Vessel  as  near  its 
own  size  as  possible,  with  just  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it, 
to  which  add  four  Onions,  a  clove  of  Garlick,  half  a  dozen 
Shallots,  a  Bay  leaf,  a  bunch  of  Sweet  herbs,  half  a  dozen 
Cloves,  a  few  Peppercorns  and  Allspice :  this  should  be  well 
closed,  and  kept  simmering  about  three  hours.  It  is  then 
served  with  Raspings  or  with  Glazing,  the  rind  having  first 
been  taken  off  neatly. — ^The  liquor  is  strained,  and  kept  till 
Poultry  of  any  sort,  or  Meat,  is  boiled,  when  the  liquor  in 
which  they  have  been  dressed  should  be  added  to  it,  and 
boiled  down  fast  till  reduced  to  about  three  pints :   when 


MADIS  DISHES,  kc.  267 

cold,  it  will  be  a  highly  flavoured,  well  coloured  Jelly,*  and 
ready  lor  Sauce  for  all  kinds  of  Rago-dts  and  Hashes,  &c.  && 

A  Fillet  op  Veal,  I  divide  into  Thru  Parts;  the 
Meat  before  it  is  skewered,  will  of  itself  indicate  where  the 
paititioii  is  natural,  and  will  puU  asunder  as  you  would 
quarter  an  Orange  i-^he  Largest  Piece  should  be  stuffed 
with  (No.  374,  or  375),  and  roHed  up,  compactly  skewered^ 
&c.  and  makes  a  iFery  pretty  small  FtUebr-^he  square  JUu 
Piece  will  either  cut  into  Cutlets  (No.  90,  or  521),  or  sikc 
for  a  Pie — and  the  T%ick  Piece  must  be  well  larded  and 
dressed  as  a  Prieandeau — ^which  I  do  in  the  following  man- 
ner : — Put  the  larded  Veal  into  a  stewpan  just  big  enough  to 
coiit»n  it,  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it ;  when  it  haB 
simmered  till  delicately  white,  and  so  tender  as  to  be  cut  with 
a  Spoon,  it  must  be  taken  out  of  the  water  and  set  apart,-— 
aad  it  will  be  ready  to  serve  up  either  with  Sorrel,  Tomata^ 
Mushrooms  (No.  305,  or  439),  or  some  of  the  above-men- 
tioned Stock— the  Fricanehati  being  previously  coloured  with 
Glazing — if  with  Muslffooms,  they  should  be  fwst  parboiled 
in  Salt  and  Vinegar,  and  water,  which  gives^  them  flavour, 
and  keeps  them  good  colour. 

The  Sirloin  of  vbbf  /  likewise  divide  ifito  Three 
Parts;  I  ferst  have  it  nicely  6oncrf. 

The  Under  party  or  Fillet^  as  the  French  call  it,  will  dress  ' 
(when  cut  into  slices)  excellently,  either  as  plain  Steaks  (r*cx 
94),  Curry  (No.  197) ;  or,  it  may  be  larded  whole,  and 
gently  stewed  in  two  quarts  of  water  (a  Bay  leaf,  two 
Onions,  their  skins  roasted  brown,  foar  Ctoves,  Allspce*, 
&c.  &c.)  till  tender,  when  it  should  be  taken  out,  drained 
quite  dry,  and  put  away — ^it  is  then  ready  to  be  used  at  any 
time  in  the  following  manner : — Season  and  dredge  it  well^ 
then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  in  which  a  piece  of  Butter  has 
been  previously  fried  to  a  fine  froth ;  when  the  Meat  is  siafr 
ficiently  brown,  take  it  out,  and  throw  into  the  pan  half  a 
dozen  middle-sized  Onions  to  do  a  fine  Gold  Colour ;  that 
accomplished,  (during  which  the  Dredger  should  be  in  coin 
utant  use,)  add  half  a  pint  of  Stock,  and  a  tea- spoonful  of  Tar* 

—  .    i^ — — _ — t^ ■■  ■ 

•  This  may  be  still  longer  pw^erved— by  toe  process  directed  iB 
(No.  ftS2.) 


958  ;ifADB  DISHES,  &e. 

ragon  Vinegar  (No.  396),.and  let  the  Onions  stew  gently  titt 
nearly  tender :  the  Beef  should  then  be  returned  to  the  stew- 
pan,  and  the  whole  suffered  to  simmer  till  the  meat  is  ^rarm 
through :  care  must  be  taken  that  the  Onions  do  not  bieak, 
and  they  should  be  served  round  the  Beef  with  as  much 
Sauce  as  will  look  graceful  in  the  dish.  The  Fillet  is  like- 
wise very  good  without  the  fried  Onions; — ^in  that,  case,  you 
should  chop  and  mix  up  together,  a  Shallot,  some  Parsley,  a 
few  Capers  and  the  Yolk  of  a  hard  £igg,  and  strew  them 
lightly  over  the  surface  of  the  Beef. 

.  The  Fat  End  of  the  Sirloin  and  Bones  should  be  put  to 
simmer  in  the  liquor,  in  which  the  Fillet  was  first  stewed, 
and  done  till  the  Beef  looks  loose ;  it  should  then  be  put 
away  into  a  deep  vessel,  and  the  Soup  strained  over  it, 
which  cooling  with  the  Fat  upon  the  top  (thereby  excluding 
the  air),  will  keep  as  long  as  may  be  required; — when  the 
Soup  is  to  be  used,  the  fat  must  be  cleared  frpm  it, — a  Carrot, 
Parsnip,  a  head  of  Celery,  a  Leek,  and  three  Turnips, 
cleaned  and  scalded^  shou3d  be  added  to  it,  and  the  wl|ole 
suffered  to  simmer  gently  till  the  vegetables  are  quite  done, 
when  they  must  be  strained  from  the  liquor,  and  the  So^p 
served  up  with  large  square  thick  pieces  of  toasted  bread. 

Those  who  like  a  Plain  BouWi  warm  the  Beef  in  the 
Soup,  and  serve  it  up  with  the  Turnips  and  Carrots  which 
had  been  strained  before  from  the  Soup.  A  White  Cabbe^ 
quartered,  is  no  bad  addition  to  the  Garnish  of  the  BouiUi, 
or  to  the  flavour  of  the  Soup.  If  it  is  a  Dressed  BouOli, 
sliced  Carrots  and  Button  Onions  should  be  stewed  in 
thickened  Stock,  and  poured  over  the  Meat 

AiN'eck  of  Mutton^  boned,  sprinl^ed  with,  dried  Sage, 
powdered  fine,  or  (No.  378)  seasoned  and  rolled  and 
roasted,  is  very  good.  T%e  Bones  and  Scrag  make  excels 
lent  Gravy  stewed  down,  and  if  done  very  ^ntly,  the  Meat  is 
•not  bad  eating.  The  same  herbs  should  be  put  to  it,  as  to 
other, Stocks,  with  the  addition  of  a  Carrot ;  this  will  make 
very  good  Muttoii  Broth,  In  short,  wherever  there  are 
Bones  or  Trimmings  to  be  got  out  of  any  Meat  that  is  dressed 
in  my  Kitchen,  they  are  made  to  contribute  towards  Soup  or 
Gravy,  or  (No.  252.) 

Instead  q^  roasting  ^Uaue  (which  at  best  is  but  dry  food), 


.  MADE  DISHES,  &€•  359 

^ew  it,  if  Young,  Plain,— if  an  Old  on^,  Lafd  it  The 
Shoulders  and  hegs  should  be  taken  off,  and  the  Back  cut 
into  three  pieces ;  these,  with  a  Bay  leaf,  half  a  dozen  Shal- 
lots, one  Onion  pierced  with  four  Cloves,  should  be  laid  with 
as  much  good  vinegar  as  will  cover  them,  for  twenty-four  hours 
in  a  deep  dish.  In  the  mean  time,  the  Head,  Neck,  Ribs, 
J>iver,  Heart,  &c.  &c.  should  be  browned  in  frotKed  Butter 
well  seasoned — add  half  a  pound  of  lean  Bacon  cut  into 
small  pieces,  a  large  bunch  of  Herbs,  a  Carrot,  and  a  few 
Allspice — simmer  these  in  a  quart  of  waiter  till  it  be  reduced 
to  about  half  the  quantity,  when  it  should  be  strained,  and 
those  parts  of  the  Hare  which  have  been  in^sed  in  the  viiie- 
^r,  should  (with  the  whole  contents  of  the  dish)  be  added  to 
it,  and  stewed  tiU  quite  done.  Those  who  like  Onions  may 
brown  half  a  dozen,  stew  them  iu  a  part  of  the  Gravy,  and 
dish  them  round  the  Hare. 

When  it  comes  from  the  table,  supposing  some  to  be  left, 
the  Meat  should  he  taken  from  the  Bones,  and  with  a  few 
Forcemeat  balls,  the  remains  of  the  Gravy,  and  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  Red  Wine,  and  a  proportionable  quantity 
of  water,  it  will  make  a  very  pretty  Soup— to  those  who 
have  no  objection  to  Catsup,  (No.  439),  a  spoonful  in  the 
original  Gravy  is  an  improvement,  as  indeed  it  is  in  every 
made  Dish  where  the  Mushroom  itself  is  not  at  command. 

Every  RagoilUy  in  my  opinion,  should  be  dressed  the  day 
before  it  is  wanted,  that  any  Fat  which  has  escaped  the  skim- 
ming spoon,  may  with  ease  be  taken  off  when  cold. 

Calf's  Head. — Take  the  half  of  one,  with  the  skin  on, 
— -^mt  it  into  a  large  stewpan  with  as  much  water  as  will 
eo^et  it,  a  knuckle  of  Ham,  and  the  usual  accompaniments 
of  Onions,  Herbs,  &c.  &c.  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  flesh 
may  be  separated  from  the  bone  with  a  spoon—- <lo  so,  and 
while  still  hot,  cut  it  into  as  large  a  sized  square  as  the  piece^ 
will  ladmit  of; — the  trimmings  and  half  the  liquor  put  by  in 
a  tureen ;  to  the  remaining  half  add  a  gill  of  White  Wine, 
and  reduce  the  whole  of  that  by  quick  boiling  till  it  is  again 
\talf  consumed,  when  it  should  be  poured  over  the  la^ 
1K{m}pe  piece  in  an  Earthen  Vessel  surrounded  with  Mush- 
rooms, white  Button  Onions,. small  pieces  of  Pickled  Pork 


360  MADE  BlSSfiS,  &C. 

M(  an  inch  in  breadth,  and  one  and  a  half  in  lengdi),  and 
the  tongue  in  slices,  wad  simraered  till  the  whole  is  fit  to 
serrenp;  some  browned  Forcemeat  balls  are  a  pretty  addtioD. 
After  this  comes  from  the  Table,  the  remains  slK>uld  be  cut 
into  small  pieees,  and  mixed  up  with  the  trimmings  and 
liquor,  which  (with  a  little  more  wine)  properly  thickened, 
will  make  a  very  good  Mock  Turtle  Sowp  for  a  futiire 
occasion. 


To  Hash  Mutton,  ^c^l^o.  484.) 

Cut  the  Meat  into  slices,  about  the  thickness  of  two  shil- 
lings, trim  oW  all  the  sinews,  skin  and  gristle,  &c. — fmt  t» 
nothing  hut  what  is  to  be  eaten^  lay  them  on  a  plate,  ready; 
prepare  your  Sauce  to  warm  it  in,  as  receipt  (No.  360),  or 
(No.  451),  or  (No.  486),  put  in  the  Meat,  and  let  it  shmner 
gently  till  it  is  thoroughty  warm : — do  not  let  it  BoiU  <u  that 
will  make  the  Meat  tough  and  hardy*  and  it  will  be,  as 
Joan  CnoBiWELLf  has  it,  a  Harsh, 

Obs. — Select  for  your  Hash  those  parts  of  the  joifU  that 
are  least  dofie. 

Mem.  Hashing  is  a  mode  of  Cookery  by  no  means  suited 
to  delicate  stomachs ;  unless  the  Meat,  &c.  be  conaideiably 
undier^done  the  first  time— «  second  dressing  ihust  spoil  i^ 
for  what  is  done  enough  the  First  time,  must  be  dme  too 
mueh  the  Second. 


*  Hashb<i  and  llleati  dressed  it  second  time;  should  onfy  simmer 
gewthf^  unjust  warm  tbtoagh :  H  is  supposed  they  have  beeo  done 
very  nearly,  ii'  not  quite  enough,  already :  select  those  parts  o(  the  joist 
that  have  been  least  done. 

In  making  a  Hash  from,  a  Leg  of  Mutton,  do  not  destroy  the  Har- 
row bone  to  help  Ifie  gravy  of  your  hash,  to  which  it  will  make  no  p«- 
ceptible  addition.;  hut  saw  it  in  two,  twist  writing  paper  lonodtfc 
ends,,  and  send  it  up  on  a  plate  as  a  side  dish,  jrarmshed  with  sprigs  t^ 
paisley: — (fit  is  a  Roast  leg,  preserve  the  &KD  bovs,  andsaidit 
up  between  the  marrow-hones.  This  is  a  very  pretty  Luncheon,  or 
Supper  dish. 

f  See  **  the  Csvtri  anA  Kiiehenof  l&hiEABnTH,  commonly eafled 
Joan  GroMweil.'^  l^mo.  London^  1064,  page  106. 


MADE  DfSHES,  &C.  361 

To  WARM  Hashes^* — Made  Dishes, — Stews,— 
Ragouts, — Soups,  &c, — (No.  485.) 

Put  what  you  have  left,  into  a  deep  hash  dish,  or  tureen ; 
when  you  want  it,  set  thi$  in  a  stewpan  of  boilingf  water : 
let  it  stand  till  the  contents  are  quite  warm. 

To  Hash  Beef,  ^-c— (No.  486.) 

Put  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Broth, — or  Water,  with  an  ounce 
of  (No.  252),  or  a  large  table-spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup, 
into  a  stewpan  with  the  Gravy  you  have  saved  that  was  left 
from  the  Beef,  and  put  in  a  quarter  ounce  of  onion  sliced 
very  fine,  and  boil  it  about  ten  minutes ;  put  a  lar^e  table- 
spoonful  of  Flour  into  a  basin,  just  wet  it  with  a  little  water, 
mix  it  well  together,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  broth,  and  give 
it  a  boil  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
it  is  ready  to  receive  tlie  Beef,  &c.,  let  it  stand  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  till  the  Meat  is  warm. 

N.  B.  A  tearspoonful  of  Parsley  chopped  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible, and  put  in  five  minutes  before  it  is  served  up,  is  a 
great  addition ; — others  like  haff  a  wineglass  of  Pert  wine, 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Currant  Jelly. 

See  also  (No.  360^,  which  will  show  you  every  variety  of 
manner  of  making  and  flavouring  the  most  highly  finished 
Hath  Sduee,  and  (Nos.  484,  485,  and  506.) 

*  The  **  Baine- Marie,*'  or  WATUii-BAtH,  see  note  to  (No.  529), 
if  the  best  utensil  to  wann  up  made  dishes,  and  things  that  have  been 
already  sufficiently  dressed,  as  it  neither  consumes  the  sauce,  nor 
hardens  the  meat:— if  you  have  not  a  Water-Bath,  a  Dutch  OvenmU 
sometimes  supply  the  place  of  it. 

"  Bain-Marie'^  is  a  flat  vessel  coo lainiDg  boiling  water ;  you  put  all 
your  stewpans  into  tbd  ^ater,  and  keep  that  vvater  always  very  hot,  but 
it  must  not  boil :  the  effect  of  this  Bain  Marie  is  to  Iceep  every  thioff 
warm  without  altering  either  the  quantity  or  the  quality,  particularly 
the  quality-.  When  I  had  the  honour  of  serving  a  Nobleman,  who  kept 
a  very  eitensive  hunting  establishment,  and  the  hour  of  dinner  wasoon- 
noaemly  uncertain,  I  was  in  the  habit  of  using  Bain  Marie,  as  a 
mktJm  means  of  preserving  the  flavour  of  all  my  dishes.  If  you  kec^ 
your  sauoe,  or  broth,  or  soup,  by  the  fireside,  the  soup  reduces,  and  be- 
comes too  strong,  and  the  sauce  thickens  as  well  as  reduces.  This  is 
the  best  way  of  warming  Turtle,  or  Mock  Turtle  Soup,— as  the  thick 
part  is  always  at  the  bottom,  and  this  method  prevents  it  from  burning, 
and  kseps it  always  good."— Udb's  Cookerf,  pag«  IS, 

R 


362  MADE  DISHES,  &C. 

Cold  Meat  Broiled^  wUh  Poached  Eggs,---  (No.  487.) 

Tlie  inside  of  a  Sirloin  of  Beef  is  best  for  this  dish,  or  a 
Leg  of  Mutton.  Cut  the  slices  of  even  and  equal  thickness, 
and  brdiland  brown  them  carefully  and  slightly  over  a  clear 
smart  fire,  or  in  a  Dutch  oven,  give  ihose  slices  most  fire 
that  are  least  done; — lay  them  in  a  dish  before  the  fire  to 
keep  hot,  while  you  poach  the  Eggs,  as  directed  in  (No. 
546),  and  mashed  Potatoes  (No.  106.) 

Ohs, — ^I'his  makes  a  savoury  Luncheon  or  Supper, — but 
is  more  relishing  than  nourishing,  unless  the  Meat  was 
under-done  the  first  time  it  was  dressed. 

No.  307  for  Sauce,  to  which  some  add  a  few  drops  of 
Shallot  wine  or  vinegar.  See  (No.  402),  or  (No.  439),  or 
(No.  359),. warmed,— or  Grill  Sauce  (No.  355.)   * 

Mrs.  Phillips's  Irish  Stew. — (No.  488.) 
Take  five  thick  Mutton  Chops,  or  two  pounds  off  the  neck 
Of  loin ;  two  pounds  of  Potatoes  *,  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
in  halves ;  six  Onions,  or  half  a  pound  of  onions,  peel  and 
slice  them  also ;- — first  put  a  layer  of  Potatoes  at  the  bottom 
of  your  stewpan,  then  a  couple  of  Chops  and  some  of  the 
Onions ;  then  again  potatoes,  and  so  on,  till  the  pan  is  quite 
full, — ^a  small  spoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  about  one  and 
a  half  of  salt,  and  three  gills  of  broth  or  gravy,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfiils  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  cover  all  very  close  in,  so  as 
to  prevent  the  steam  from  getting  out,  and  let  them  stew  for 
an  hour  and  a  half  on  a  very  slow  fire.  A  small  slice  of 
ham  is  a  great  addition  to  this  dish.  The  Cook  will  be  the 
best  judge  when  it  is  done,  as  a  great  deal  depends  on  the 
fine  you  have. 

N.  B.  Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  burn,  and 
that  it  does  not  do  too  fast. 

To  make  an  Irish  Stew,  or  Hunter's  Pie.    - 

Take  part  of  a  Neck  of  Mutton,  cut  it  into  chops,  season 
it  well,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  let  it  brase  for  half  an  hour^ 
take  two  dozen  of  potatoes,  boil  them,  mash  them,  and  sea- 
son them,  butter  your  mould,  and  line  it  with  the  potatoes, 
put  in  the  Mutton,  bake  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  it  will  be 
done^  cut  a  hole  in  the  top,  and  add  some  good  gravy  to  it. . 


MADE  DISHES,  &C.  363 

N.  B.  The  above  is  the  contribution  of  Mr.  Morrison  of 
the  Leinster  Hotel,  Dublin. 

A  good  Scotch  Haggles, — (No.  488  *.) 

Make  the  ha^es-bag  perfectly  clean ;  parboil  the  draught, 
boil  the  liver  very  well,  so  as  it  will  grate ;  dry  the  meal  be- 
fore the  fire;  mince  the  draught  and  a  pretty  large  piece  of 
beef  very  small ;  grate  about  half  of  the-  liver ;  mirice  plenty 
of  the  suet  and  some  onions  small ;  mix  all  these  materials 
▼ery  well  together,  with  a  handful  .or  two  of  the  dried  meal ; 
spread  them  on  the  table,  and  season  them  properly  with  salt 
and  mixed  spices ;  take  any  of  the  scraps  of  beef  that  is  left 
from  mincing,  and  some  of  the  water  that  boiled  the  draught, 
and  make  about  a  choppin  (i,  e.  a  quart)  of  good  stock  of  it ; 
then  put  all  the  baggies  meat  into  .the  bag,  and  that  broth  in 
it ;  then  sew  upthe  bag ;  but  be  sure  to  put  out  all  the  wind 
before  you  sew  it  quite  close.  If  you  think  the  bag  is  thin, 
you  may  put  it  in  a  cloth.  If  it  is  a  large  baggies,  it  will 
take  at  least  two  hours  boiling. 

N.  B.  The  above  we  copied  verbatim  from  Mrs.  Maciver, 
a  celebrated  Caledonian  Professor  of  the  Culinary  art,  mho 
taught  and  published  a  book  of  Cookery  at  Edinburgh^ 
A.  D.  1787. 

Minced  Collops. 

**  This  is  a  favourite  Scotch  dish,»— few  families  are  with- 
out it, — it  keeps  well,  and  is  always  ready  to  make  an  extra 
dish. 

"  Take  Beef,  and  chop  and  mince  it  very  small ;  to  which 
add  some  salt  and  pepper.  Put  this^  in  its  raw  state,  into 
small  jars,  and  pour  on  the  top  some  clarified  butter.  When 
intended  fbr  use,  put  the  clarified  butter  into  a  fryingpan, 
and  slice  some  onions  into  the  pan,  and  fry  them.  Add  a 
little  water  to  it,  and  then  put  in  the  minced  meat.  Stew  it 
well,  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  fit  to  serve  up." — The 
Hon.  John  Cochrane's  Seaman's  Guide,  8vo.  1797.  p.  42. 

Harrico*  Mutton, — (No.  489.) 
Cut  the  best  end  of  a  Neck  or  Loin  of  Mutton  that  has 

*  Piobably  a  cootmction  of  ^'Haut  Bagodt.'' 


364  JiCiU>E  D19B)CS,   &C 

be«Q  kept  till  tender  iota  Chppa  of  equal  thickness,  one  rib 
to  each ;  (**  les  bons  hommes  de  boucke  de  Paris''^  cat  two 
chops  to  one  bone,  but  it  is  more  convenient  to  help  when 
there  is  only  one,  two  at  a  time  is  too  large  a  dose  for  John 
Bui),)  trim  off  some  of  the  &I;  and  the  lower  end  of  the 
chine  bone,  and  scn^pe  it  clean,  and  lay  them,  ia  a.  StewpMb 
with  «n  ounce  of  Butter ;  set  it  over  a  ymarifir^  t  i£  your  fire 
is  not  $barp»  the.  Chops  will  be  doiiQ  befove  they  ace 
coloui:ed:  the  iptotioii  of  frying  them,  ia  merely  to  gu» 
fhem  a  vmt  li^  browning. 

While  the  Chop9  sure  browning,  peel  and  boil  a  cqu(^  of 
do^en  of  young  butttm  Onions  in  about  three  pints  of  water 
for  about  15  or  20  minu^»  set  them  by,->-<9nd  pour  off  the 
liquor  they  were  boiled  in  iato  the  stewpaot  with  the  Cb«ftt» 
if  that  is  not  sufficient  to  cover  them  add  a^  much  boibng 
iRater  a&  will ;  remove  the  seum  as  it  ri«e^  and  b^  oarefi 
they  are  not  stemed,  tooftut  or  too  mucA,--*90  tahje  out  one  of 
them  with  a  &h  slice^  and  try  it:  when  they  a^  tender, 
which  will  be  in  ahout  an  hour  and  a  half^  then  pass  tk 
l^vy  t^ugfa  a  sieve  into  a  basin«  set  it  in  tjie  open. air  tihat 
It  may  get  cold,  you  ms^  then  easily  and  completely  alum  off 
the  fat — in  the  mean  time  set  the  meat  and  vc^tables  by  the 
fire  to  keep  hot,  and  pour  some  boiling  water  ov^r  ^q  hQttw 
Onions  to  warm  them*  Ibve  about  six  ounces  of  Carrots, 
axui  eight  ounces  of  Turnips,  peeled  and.  cut  ipto  ^iees^  or 
shaped  into  Balk  about  a«  bi^  as  a  Nutmeg,  boil  the  Canots 
about  half  an  hour — the  turnips  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour* 
am4  put  them  an  a  sieve  to  drains  mi  tbeu  put  them  round 
d)Q  Dish,  the  last  thing* 

Thicken  thb  Gravy  by  putting  an  ounce  of  Butter  ix^ 
a  Stewpsin ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  wiU 
stiffen  it ;  pour  the  gravy  to  it  by  degrees,  stir  together  till  it 
boils ;  strain  it  throi^h  a  fine  sieve  or  tamrpia  intp  a  stewpan» 
pvt^in  the  Carrots  wid  Turnips  to  get  warm»  and  let  it  simr 
mer  gently  while  you  dish  up  the  Meat ;  lay  tbe^chopis  round 
a  dish,  put  the  Vegetables  in  the  middle,  and  pour  the 
thickened  gravy  over*  Some  put  i^  Capers^  &c.,  minced 
GberJkin^^c. 

Q&Sc-::HuHP  SXEAK^  VeAL  CUTL£TS»  and.B£fi£  TMi^ 

make  excellent  dishes,  dressed  in  the  like  maener^ 


MADE  DISIISS,  &C.  365 

Mutton  Chops  delicately  Stewed^  and  good  Mutton  Broth. 

(No.  490.) 

Put  the  Chops  into  t  stewpan  wkh  cold  water  enough  to 
coyer  diem,  and  an  Onion,— wh6n  it  is  ooilking  t6  a  boiU 
skim  it,  cover  the  pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  very  slot/b  Fim 
till  the  Chops  are  tend€r,<^f  they  have  been  kept  a  proper 
time,  they  will  take  about  three-quiurtfers  of  an  hour's  very 
genile  simmBrmg.  Send  up  Turnips  with  them,  (No.  130), 
they  may  be  boiled  with  the  chops,  skim  Well,  and  theft 
send  all  up  in  a  deep  dish,  with  the  Broth  they  were 
stewed  in.  .         « 

N.  B.  Tlie  Broth  will  make  an  Economist  eue,<'''«nd  tJu 
Meat  another  wholesome  and  colnfortable  meal. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  Gn&i— (No.  49L) 

Boil  it» — score  it  in  chequers  about  an  inch  square,  rub  it 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg^  pepper  and  salt  it,  strew  it  with 
bread-crumbs  and  dried  parsley,  or  sweet  Herbs,  or  (No.  457 
or  459),  and  Ckurbonado,  i.  e.  Grill,  i.  e.  Broil  it  over  a  clear 
fire,  or  put  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  till  it  is  a  nice  light  brown;, 
send  up  some  gravy  with  it,  or  make  a  sauce  f6rit  of  flour 
aad  water  well  mixed  together  with  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter, 
a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.     See  also  Grill  Sauce  (No.  355.) 

N.  B.  Breasts  of  Lamb  are  often  done  in  the  Same  way^ 
and  with  Mushroom  or  Mutton  sauce  (No.  307.) 

Lamb^s  P?y.— (No.  492.) 

Fry  it  plain,  or  dip  it  in  an  egg  well  beaten  on  a  plate, 
and  strew  some  fine  stale  bread-crumbs  over  it;  gatnish 
with  crisp  parsley  (No.  389<)  For  sauce  (No.  355),  or^ 
(No.  356.) 

Shin  op  Beef*  Stewed.— (No.  493.) 

Desire  the  butcher  to  saw  the  bone  into  three  or  four 

pieces,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  just  cover  it  with  cold 

t  ^-        ■  ■ .       — ^— ^^_-^.^— ^^ 

*  The  proverb  says,  **  Of  all  the  Fowls  of  the  Air,  commend  me  to 
the  Sbiv  op  Bbbp,— for  there's  Marrow  ibr  the  master^— Meat  for 
the  bristress.  Gristles  for  the  Serraots,  and  Bones  for  the  Dqgs.'' 


366  MADE  DISHES,  &C. 

water,— >when  it  simmers,  skim  it  clean, — ^then  put  in  a 
bundle  of  Sweet  Herbs,  a  large  Onion,  a  head  of  Celery,  a 
dozen  berries  of  Black  Pepper,  and  the  same  of  Allspice : 
— «tew  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  Meat  is  tender, — 
this  will  take  from  about  Three  hours  and  a  half,  to  foar  and 
a  half. 

Take  three  Carrots,  peel  and  cut  them  into  small  squares ; 
—peel  and  cut  ready  m  small  squares  a  couple  of  Turnips, 
with  a  couple  of  dozen  of  small  young  round  silver  Button 
Onions ;  boil  them  till  tender,  the^  Turnips  and  Onions  will 
be  enough  in  about  fifteen  minutes, — ^the  Carrots  will  require 
about  twice  as  long— drain  them  dry. 

When  the  Beef  is  quite  tender,  take  it  out  carefully  with  a 
slice,  and  put  it  on  a  dish  while  you  thicken  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  the  Gravy:  to  do  this,  mix  three  table-spoonsful  of 
flour  with  a  tea-cupful  of  the  beef  liquor ;  to  make  Soup  of 
the  rest  of  it,  see  (No.  238) ;  stir  this  thoroughly  together 
till  it  boils,  scum. off  the  Fat,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
put  your  vegetables  in  to  warm ; — Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  wineglass  of  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439),  or  Port 
wine,  or  both,  and  pour  it  over  the  Beef. 

Send  up  Wow  Wow  sauce  (No.  328),  in  a  boat. 
'  N.  B.  Or,  instead  of  sending  up  the  Beef  whole,  cut  the 
meat  into  handsome  pieces  fit  to  help  at  table,  and  lay  it  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish,  with  the  Vegetables  and  Sauce 
(which,  if  you  flavour  with  (No.  455),  you  may  call  **  Beef 
Curry,")  round  it.  A  Leg  of  Mutton  is  excellent 
,dressed  the  same  way, — equal  to  *'  le  Gigot  de  sept  heureSy^ 
so  famous  in  the  French  kitchen. 

Ohs. — ^This  Stew  has  every  claim  to  the  attention  of  the 
Rational  Epicure^  being  one  of  those  in  which  '*  Fruga- 
lity," "  Nourishment,"  •*  and  Palatablei«(ess,"  are 
most  happily  combined, — and  you  get  half  a  Grallon  of 
excellent  Broth  into  the  bargain. 

We  advise  the  Mistress  of  the  table,  to  call  it,  **  Ragout 
Beef  ;"  this  will  ensure  it  being  eaten  with  unanimous  ap- 
plause ; — the  homely  appellation  of  Shin  of  Beef  stewed^  is 
enough  to  give  your  Genteel  eater  a  locked  jaw. 

**  Remember,  wben  the  Judgment's  weak,  the  Prfjudic^  is  strgipg." 


MADE  DISHES,   &C  367 

.  '  Our  Modern  Epicures  resemble  the  Ancient,*  who  thought 
the  dearest  dish  must  be  the  most  delicious : 


'"  And  think  all  Wisdom  lies 


**  Id  being  impertinently  fiice.'' 

Thus,  they  reckon  Turtle  and  Punch,  to  be  **  sheventy  foive 
per  skent^*  more  inviting  than  Mock  Turtle  and  Good  Malt 
Liquor, — however  bad  the  former  may  be,  and  however 
good  the  latter ; — we  wish  these  folks  could  be  made  to  un- 
derstand, that  the  Soup  for  each,  and  all  the  accompani- 
meuf s,  are  precisely  the  same ; — there  is  this  only  ditfer- 
ence,  the  former  is  commonly  made  with  a  "  STARVED 
TURTLE,'  (see  Notes  at  the  foot  of  page  247,)  the  latter 

with  a  ''  FATTED  CALF.^'  See  (Nos.  247, 
343,  and  343  *.) 

The  scarcity  of  tolerably  good  cooks,  ceases  to  be  sur- 
prising, when  we  reflect  how  much  more  astonishing  is  the 
ignorance  of  most  of  those  who  assume  the  character  of  Sci- 
entific Gourmands  f ,  so  extremely  ignorant  of  **  the  affairs  • 
of  the  Mouth,"  —  they  seem  hardly  to  **  know  a  Sheep's 
head  from  a  Carrot,^'  and  their  real  pretensions  to  be  pro- 
found Palaticians,  are  as  moderate,  as  the  wine  merchant's 
customer,  whose  sagacity  in  the  selection  of  Liquors,  was 

r»   I  ■  I  .  HI  .111,-.,  ■  ■■ 

•  The  remotest  parts  of  the  world  were  visited,  and  Earth,  Air,  and 
Ocean'tausacked  to  furnish  th^  complicated  delicacies  of  a  Roman 
Supper. 

'<  Suidat  tells  us,  that  Fityllus,  who  bad  a  Hot  tongue  and  a  Cold 
stomacli,  in  order  to  gratify  ihe  latter  without  offeodiDg  tbe  former, — 
made  a  sheath  for  his  Tongue,  so  that  tie  could  sv^allow  his  pottage 
scalding  hot;  yea,  I  myself  have  known  a  Shropshire  'Gentieiftan  of 
ihe  like  quality  ! !"  —See  Dr.  Moffat  on  Food,  4to.  1655. 

*'  In  the  refined  extravagance  of  the  tal;>les  of  the  great,  where  tbe 
Culinary  arts  are  pushed  to  excess, — Luxury  becomes  false  to  itself,  and 
things  are  valued,  not  as  they  are  nutritious,  or  agreeable  to  the  ap- 
petite, but  in  proportion  as  they  are  rare,— out  o/  season,— or  costly.'^ 
— Gadooan  on4rout,  8vo.  1771,  page  48. 

f  "  Cookery  is  an  art,  appreciated  by  only  a  very  few  individuals, 
and  which  requires,  in  addition  to  a  most  studious  and  diligent  applica- 
tion^ no  small  share  of  intellect,  and  the  strictest  sobriety  and  punctu- 
ality."— Preface  to  Udk^s  Cookery,  page  6. 


368  MADE  DISHES,   &€. 

only  so  exquisite^  that — he  knew  that  Port  wine  was  black, 
and  that  if  he  drank  enoi^h  of  it,  it  would  make  Mm  jdrunk. 

Brisket  of  Beef  Stewed.— {^o.  494) 

This  is  prepared  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  **  Soup  and 
BouiUi:'    See  (Nos.  5,  238  or  493.) 

Hcmrkot  of  Beef^{^o.  495.) 

A  stewed  brisket  cut  in  slices,  and  sent  up  with  the  same 
Sauce  of  roots,  &c.,  as  we  have  directed  for  harricot  of  mot* 
ton  (No.  489),  is  a  most  excellent  dish,  of  very  moderate 
expense. 

Savoury  Salt  Beef  Bafted.— (No.  406,) 

The  Tongue  Side  of  a  ronnd  of  Beef  is  the  best  bit  for 
this  purpose  ;  if  it  weighs  fifteen  pounds  let  it  hang  two  or 
three  days ;  then  take  three  ounces  of  Saltpetre,  one  ounce 
of  coarse  Sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Black  pepper,  and 
same  of  Allspice,  (some  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  oif  Ginger, 
or  (No.  457),  and  some  minced  sweet  and  savoury  Herbs 
(No.  459),  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  common  S^lt; 
incorporate  these  ingredients  by  pounding  them  together  ia 
a  mortar ;  then  take  the  bone  out,  and  rub  the  Meat  well 
with  the  above  mixture,  tnrning  it  and  rubbing  it  every  c^y 
for  a  fortnight. 

When  you  dress  it,  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  quart  of 
water ;  cover  the  meat  with  about  three  pounds  of  muttoo 
suet  *  shredded  rather  thick,  and  an  onion  or  two  minced 
small ;  cover  the  whole  with  a  flour  crust  to  the  top  or  brim 
of  the  pan,  and  let  it  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  for  abont 
six  hours,  (or,  just  cover  it  with  water,  and  let  it  stew  very 
gently  for  about  five  hours,  and  when  you  send  it  to  table, 
cover  the  top  of  it  with  finely  cheeped  Parsley.)  If  the 
Beef  weighs  more,  put  a  proportional  addition  of  all  the  in- 
gredients. 


*  This  Suet  is  DOt  to  he  wasted, — when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  takr 
oat  the  Beef,  and  strain  the  contents  of  the  pan  through  a  sieve, — let  it 
fttand  till  k  is  oold,— then  darify  the  fat  as  directed  in  (Xo.  83),  toAk 
will  do  for  Prying,  <fec. 


ttAos  biSHfis,  kt.  369 

Otzfy  you  irtH  €iid  a  strong  Cbtwwmn^,  €t)tceirent  for 
Sauce  or  Soup, — or  making  Soy,  or  Browning,  see  (No.  322), 
^d  being  impregnated  with  ^t,  will  keep  several  days. 
'  This  Joint  should  not  be  cat  till  it  is"  Oold. — and  then, 
^th  a  sharp  knife  to  prevent  waste,  and  keep  it  eveti  Apd. 
•comely  to  the  eye. 

Oft^.-'^This  is  a  most  eitcellent  way  of  preparing  and 
dressing  Beef  {No.  303), — and  a  sav<Wry  dish,  fcfr  Scenic 
wicheSy  &c. — In  moderate  weather  it  wifl  keep  good  for  a 
fortnight  after  it  is  dressed :  it  is  one  of  the-  most  economical 
and  elegant  articles  of  ready-dressed  keeping  jfrovisions ; 
des^rfing  the'partictilar  attention  of  those  famihe^  who  fre- 
quently have  Accidental  Custotners  dropping  in  at  Luncheon 
or  Supper~^to  whom,  we  recommend  &foRAiSON^s  iProvi- 
sfons^  No.  3,  Charlotte  Row,  Mansion  House. 

CuRRiBs. — (NOb  497.)  see  aUo  (No.  249.) 
Cut  Fowls  or  Rabbits  into  joints,  atkd  wash  it  clean  ;-*- 
pat  two  ounces  of  Butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  it  is  melted, 
put  in  the  iheat,  and  two  middling  sized  Onions  sliceci,  let 
tbKn  be  over  a  smart  fire  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown,  then 
put  in  half  a  pint  of  Broth  ;  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes. 

Put  in  a  basin  one  or  two  table-spoonfuh  of  Curry  Pbw- 
der  (No.  455),  a  tea-spoonful  of  Flour,  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  Salt ;  mix  it  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  put  it  m  the 
stewpan,  and  shake  it  well  about  till  it  boils;  let  it  shnmer 
twenty  minutes  longer;  then  take  out  the  Meat— and  rub  the 
Btnce  throu^  a  tammis  or  sieve-^addtoit  two  table-spoons- 
ful of  cream-  or  milk,  give  it  a  boil  np-^then  pour  it  into  a 
dish,  lay  the  meat  over  it— -send  up  the  Rice  in  a  separate 
dish. 
:  06j».— -Cirsirr  ia  made  ako  witk  Sweetbreads — BrecLSt  of 
Veal^^Veal  Cutkts — Lamb^^Mutton  or  Pork  Chopsf^^Loh^  . 
ster — Turhol — Soles — Eels^^Oysters,  &c.  prepared  as  above, 
or  enveloped  in  (No.  348,) 

06*.— This  is  a  very  savoury  and  economical  dish,  and  a 
vaduable  variety  at  a  moderate  table.  See  Wovr  Wow  Sauce 
(No.  328.) 

Stewed  Rump  Steaks. — (No.  500.) 

The  Steaks  must  be  a  little  thicker  than  for  broiling,— 

r5 


3^70  MADE  DISHES,  &C.  r 

let  them  be  all  the  same  thickness,  or  some  will  be  doiietoa 
little,  and  otliers  too  much 

Put  an  ounce  of  Butter  intp.  a  stewpan,  with  two  Onions; 
when  the  Butter  is  melted,  lay  in  the  Rump  Steaks, 
let  them  stand  over  a  slow  fire  ior  five  minutes,  then  turn 
them,  and  let  the  other  side  of  tliem  fry  five  minutes  longer. 
Have  ready  boiled  a  pint  of  Button  Onions ;  they  will  take 
from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour ;.  put  the  Hc^^uor  they  were 
boiled  in  to  the  Steaks ;  if  there  is  not  enough  of  it  to  cover 
them,  add  broth  or  boiling  water,  to  make  up  enough  for  that 
purpose,  with  a  dozen  corns  of  Black  Pepper  and  a  little  Salt, 
and  let  them  simmer  very  gentiy  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
half,  and  then  strain  off  as  much  of  the  liquor  (about  a  pint 
and  a  half)  as  you. think  will  make  the  sauce. 

Put  two  ounces  of  Butter  into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  stir  in  as  much  Flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  stiff 
paste  ;  some  add  thereto  a  table-spoonful  of  Claret,  or  Port 
wine,  the  same  of  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439),  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  tea- spoonful  of  groimd 
Black  Pepper :  add  the  liquor  by  degrees,  let  it  boil  up  lor 
fifteen  mmutes;  skim  it,  and  strain  it;  serve  up  the  Steaks 
with  the  Onions  round  the  dish,  and  pour  the  Gravy  over. 

Veal  Cutlets  or  Mutton  Chops  may  be  done  the 
same  way,  or  as  Veal  Olives  (No.  518.) 

This  is  generally  a  second  course  dish,  and  is  usually 
made  too  rich, — and  only  fit  to  re-excite  an  Appetite 
already  satiated.  Our  endeavour  is  to  combine  agreeable 
savouriness  with  substantial  nourishment:  those. who  wish  to 
enrich  our  Receipt  may  easily  add  Mushrooms, — ^Wine, — 
Anchovy, — Cayenne, — Bay  leaves,  &c. 

Obs. — Rump  Steaks  are  in  best  condition  from  Michael- 
mas to  Lady-day.  To  ensure  their  being  tender,  give  the 
Butcher  three  or  four  dayis*  notice  of  your  wish  for  them. 

Broiled  Rump  Steak  with  Onion  Gravy y — (No.  501.) 

See  also  (No.  299.) 

Peel  and  slice  tWo  large  Onions ;  put  them  into  a  quart 
stewpan  with  two  table-spoonsful  of  water  :  cover  the  stew- 
pan  close,  and  set  it  pn  a  slow  fire  till  the  water  has  boiled 
away,  and  the  Onions  have  got  a  little  browned, — then,  add 


r 


MADB  DtBHES,  &C.  3^1 

half  a  pint  of  good  Broth,  *  and  boil  the  Onions  till  they  are 
tender;  strain  the  Broth  from  them,  and  chop  them  veiy 
fine ;  and  season  it  with  Mushroom  Catsup,  and  pepper  and 
salt ;  put  the  Onion  into  it,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  five 
ininures,  and  pour  it  into  the  Dish,  and  lay  over  it  a  Broiled 
Rump  Steak.  If,  instead  of  Broth,  you  use  good  Beef 
Gravy,  it  will  be  superlative. 

*»♦  Stewed  Cucumber  (No.  135),  is  another  agreeable 
(iccompaniment  to  Rump  Steaks. 

ALAMODE  BEEF,  or  VEAL.— (No.  502.) 

In  the  1 80  volumes  on  Cookery,  we  patiently  pioneered 
through,  before  we  encountered  the  tremendous  labour  and 
expense  of  proving  the  Receipts  of  our  predecessors, — and  set 
about  recording  these  results  of  our  own  Experiments, — we 
Gould  not  find  one  Receipt  that  approximated  to  any  thing 
like  an  accurate  description  of  the  way  in  which  this  excellent 
dish  is  actually  dressed  in  the  best  Alamode  Beef  Shops ; — 
from  whence,  of  course,  it  was  impossible  to  obtain  any 
information : — ^however,  after  all,  the  whole  of  the  secret 
seems  to  be  the  thickening  the  gravy  of  Beef  that  has  been 
very  slowly-f  stewed,  and  flavouring  it  with  Bay  leaves  and 
Allspice. 

Take  about  eleven  pounds  of  the  Mouse  Buttock,— or 
Clod  of  Beel',— or  a  Blade  Bone,— or  the  Sticking  piece,  or 
the  like  weight  of  the  Breast  of  Veal ;  cut  it  into  pieces  of 
three  or  four  ounces  each ;  put  three  or  four  ounces  of  Beef 
drippings,  and  mince  a  couple  of  large  Onions,  and  put 
them  into  a  large  deep  stewpan ;  as  soon  as  it  is  quite  hot, 
flour  the  Meat,  put  it  into  the  stewpan,  keep  stirring  it  with 
a  wooden  spoon ;  when  it  has  been  on  about  ten  minutes 


*  If  you  have  no  Brotb»— put  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  thicken  it  as  in 
the  above  receipt,  andl  just  before  you  give  it  the  last  boil  up,  add  to  it 
a  larire  spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  and,  if  you  like,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  Port  wine. 

f  '*  It  must  be  allowed  to  muse  gently  for  several  hours,  inaeces 
sible  to  the  ambient  air,  and  on  the  even  and  persevering  heat  of  char- 
coal in  the  fiimace  or  stove.    After  having  lulled  itself  in  its  own  esnido^ 
tions,  and  the  dissolution  uf  its  auxiliaries,  it  may  appear  at  table  with 
a  powerful  claim  to  approbation.'^ — Tabella  Cibaria,  p.  47. 


372  MADE  DI8HCS,  &C. 

dredge  it  with  floor,  and  keep  doing  so  till  you  have  fstirTed* 
in  as  much  as  you  think  will  thicken  it,  then  corer  it  with 
hoiling  water,  (it.  will  take  about  a  gallon,)  adding  it  by  de^ 
gpees  and  stirring  it  together;  skim  it  when  it  boib,  aad 
then  pitf  in  one  drachm  of  ground  Black  Pepper,  two  of  All- 
spice, and  two  Bay  leaves;  set  the  pan  by  the  side  of  the 
fire,  or  at  a  distance  over  it,  and  let  it  stew  very  slowly  for 
about  three  hours ;  when  you  find  the  meat  sufficiently  ten- 
der, put  it  into  a  tureen,  and  it  is  ready  for  table. 

It  is  customary  to  send  up  with  it  a  nice  Salad;  see 
(No.  372.) 

*^*  To  the  above  many  Cooks  add  Champignons  ;  hut 
as  these  are  almost  always  decayed^  and  often  qf  deleteriousr 
quality,  they  are  better  left  out,  —  a^i  indeed  the  BAY 
LEAVES  deserve  the  same  prohibition, 

Obs. — Here  is  a  savoury  and  substantial  meal,  .almost  as 
cheap  as  the  Ego-Broth  of  the  Miser, — ^who  fed  his  Valet 
with  the  water  in  which  his  Egg  was  boiled,^ — or  as  the 
**  Potage  d  la  Pierre,  a  la  Soldat,^'*  mentioned  by  Giles 
Rose  in  the  4th  page  of  his  dedication  of  the  •*  PBRFEcrr 

SCHOOL    OF    INSTRUCTION    FOR  THE  OFFICERS    OF   THE 

MOUTH,"  1 8mo.  London,  1682.  «  Two  Soldiers  were  minded 
to  have  a  Soup ;  the  first  of  them  coming  into  a  house,  and 
asking  for  all  things  necessary  for  the  making  of  one,  was  as 
soon  told  that  he  could  have  none  of  those  things  there^ 
whereupon  he  went  away; — the  other,  coming  in  wiih  a 
Stone  in  his  knapsack,  asked  only  for  a  pot  to  boil  his  stone 
in,  that  he  might  make  a  dish  of  broth  of  it  for  fts  Supper, 
which  was  quickly  granted  him ;  when  the  Stone  had  boiled 
a  little  while,  he  asked  for  a  "frmall  piece  of  Meat  or  Bacon, 


*  **  *  C^est  la  Soupe,*  says  one  of  the  best  of  proverbs,  '  ^at  fmt  le 
Soldat ;'  *  It  is  (be  Soup  that  makes  the  SoUier/  Exceiknt  as  aur 
troops  arcr  in  the  field,  there  cansot  be  a  more  sn^uestioDable  fact,  thav 
their  immense  inferiority  lo  the  French  in  the  bu.«diies6  of  Cookery.  Ttia 
English  soldier  lays  his  piece  of  ration  beef  at  once  on  the  coate,  \sf 
which  means,  the  one  and  the  better  half  is  lost, — and  the  c^er  burnt 
to  a  cinder.  Whereas  six  French  troopers  fling  their  messes  into  th« 
sanne  pot,  and  uxtraot  a  delicioua  Soup,  ten  times  more  Butritious  thav 
the  simple  BSti  could  ever  be.'^— BbACKWooo^s  Edinhur^  Mago' 
ztn£,  vpl.  vji.  p«6d$. 


MADE  DISHES,   kc.  373 

and  a  lew  Herbs  and  Roots,  &c.  just  merely  to  give  it  a  bit 
of  a  flavour ;  till,  by  little  and  Uttle,  he  ffot  all  things  reqni-^ 
site»  and  so  made  an  excellent  Pottage  of  his  Stone/*-— See 
Obs.  to  (No.  493.) 

OoioDS,  Pepper,  Allspice,  and  Bay  leares. . . «  0    3 
11  pounds  of  Beef 3    9 

Made  Eight  Quarts 3  11 

t.  c,  Six'pence  per  Quart. 

To  Pot  Beef, — Veal, — Game,  or  Poultry,  &c, 

(No.  503.) 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  Gravy  Beef,  rub  it  well  with  an 
ounce  of  Saltpetre,  and  then  a  hsmdful  of  common  Salt ;  let' 
it  lie  in  Salt  for  a  couple  of  days,  rubbing  it  well  each  day, 
then  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  or  stone  jar  that  will  just- 
hold  it,  cover  it  with  the  skin  and  fat  that  you  cut  off,  aad 
pour  in  half  a  pint  of  water ;  cover  it  close  with  paste,  and 
set  it  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  about  four  hours ; — or  prepare 
it  as  directed  in  (No.  496.) 

When  it  comes  from  the  Oven,  drain  the  gravy  from  it 
into  a  basin,  pick  out  the  gristles  and  the  skins,  mince  it 
fine,  moisten  it  with  a  little  of  the  Gravy  you  poured  from 
the  Meat,  which  is  a  very  strong  Consommi  (but  rather  salt,) 
and  it  will  make  excellent  Pease  Soup,  or  Browning,  (see 
No.  322,)  pound  the  Meat  patiently  and  thoroughly  in  a 
mortar  with  some  fresh  Butter,*  till  it  is  a  fine  paste,  (to 
make  Potted  Meat  smooth  there  is  nothing  equal  to  plenty 
of  Elbow-grease) — ^seasoning  it  (by  degrees  as  you  are  heal- 
ing it)  with  a  little  Black  Pepper  and  Allspice,— or  Cloves 
pounded,  or  Mace,  or  grated  Nutmeg. 

Put  it  in  pots^  press  it  down  as  close  as  possible,  and 
cover  it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  with  Clarified  Butter ;  to 
prepare  which,  see  receipt  (No.  259,)  and  if  you  wish  to 
preserve  it  a  long  time,  over  that  tie  a  Bladder.     Keep  it  in ' 

a  dry  pltee.  i 

■ I  ■ '      1 1 1  I 

*  The  less  Gravy  or  Batter,  and  the  more  beating  tht  better  will  be 
yoor  Potted  Beef,  if  you  wish  it  to  keep  ; — if  for  immediate'  eating, 
you  may  put  in  a  larger  proportion  t)f  gravy  or  butter,  as  the  meat  \vill 
pound  easier,  and  look  and  taste  nfore  maUovr. 


374  MADE  DISHBS,  &C. 

Obs. — ^You  may  mince  a  little  Ham  or  Bacon^—or  an 
Anchovy, — Sweet  or  .Savoury  Herbs,— or  a  Shallot,  and  a 
liule  Tarragon,  Chervil,  or  Burnet,  &c.,  and  pound  them 
with  the  Meat,  with  a  glass  of  Wine,  or  some  Mustard,  or 
Forcemeat  (No.  376,  or  378,  and  399*,  &c. ;)  if  you  wish 
to  have  it  Devilish  savoury,  add  RagoiU  Powder  (No.  467,) 
CSwrry  Powder  (No.  455,)  or  Zest  (No.  255,)  and  moisten  it 
with  Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  439,)  or  Esserice  of  Anchovy 
(No.  433,)  or  Tincture  of  Allspice  (No.  413,)  or.  Essence 
of  Turtle  (No.  343».) 

Or,— (No.  503».) 

•  It  is  a  very  agreeable  and  economical  way  of  using  the  re- 
mains of  Game,  or  Poultry,  or  a  large  joint  of  either  roasted 
or  boiled  Beef,  Veal,  Ham,  or  Tongue,  &c.  to  mince  it,  with 
some  of  the  Fat,  (or  moisten  it  with  a  little  Butter,  or  (No. 
439^)  &c.)  and  beat  it  in  a  morlar  with  the  seasoning,  &c., 
as  in  the  former  Receipt. 

When  either  the  Teeth  or  Stomach  are  extremely  feeble, 
especial  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  Meat  till  it  is  tender 
before  it  is  cooked— or  call  in  the  aid  of  those  excellent 
helps  to  bad  teeth  the  Pestle  and  Mortar.  ^ — And  see  (Nos. 
10,  18,  87,  89, 175.  178  ;  from  135  to  250,  502,  543— 
and  especially  503.)  Or  dress  in  the  usual  way  whatever 
is  b^st  liked — mince  it,  put  it  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  it 
with  a  little  Broth  or  melted  Butter, — ^Vegetable, — Herb,— 
Spice, — Zest  (No.  255,)  &c.,  according  to  the  taste,  &c  of 
the  Later.  The  business  of  the  Stomach  is  thus  very  mate- 
rially facilitated. 

"  Flesh  in  small  quantities,  bruised  to  a  pulp,  may  be  very 
advantageously  used  in  fevers  attended  with  debility."— 
Darwin's  Zoonomiaf  vol.  ii.  p.  400. 

"  Mincing  or  Pounding  Meat — saveth  the  grinding  of  the 
Teeth ;  and  therefore,  (no  doubt)  is  more  nourishii^,  espe- 
cially in  Agej-^-or  to  them  that  have  weak  teeth ;  but  butter 
is  not  proper  for  weak  bodies, — ^and  therefore,  moisten  it  ia 
pounding  with  a  little  Claret  wine,  and  a  very  little  Cinna- 
mon  or  Nutmeg." — Lord  Bacon  ;  statural  History ^  Cen- 
tury I.  54. 

Ohs. — Meat  that  has  been  boiled  down  for  Gravies,  &;:• 


^ADB.  DISHES^  &C.  375 

see  (No,  185^,>and  (No.  252,)  (which  has  heretofore  been 
considered  the  perquisite  of  the  Cat,)  and  is  completely 
drained  of  all-its  succulence,  beat  in  a  mortar  with  Salt,  and 
a  little  ground  Black  Pepper  and  Allspice,  as  directed  in  the 
foregoing  Receipt,  and  it  will  make  as  good  Potted  Beef,  as 
Meat  that  has  been  baked  till  its  moisture  is  entirely  extracted, 
which  it  must  be,  or  it  will  not  keep  two  days. 

Mem. — Meat  that  has  not  been  previously  salted,  will  not 
keep  so  l6ng  as  that  which  has.  ^ 

Sandwiches, — (No.  504.) 

Properly  prepared,  are  an  elegant  and  convenient  Luncheon 
or  Supper, — but  hare  got  out  of  Fashion— from  the  bad 
manner  in  which  they  are  commonly  made :  to  cut  the  Bread 
neatly  with  a  sharp  knife,'  seems  to  be  considered  the  only 
essential,  and  the  lining  is  composed  of  any  ofFal  odds  and 
ends — ^that  cannot  be  sent  to  table  in  aiiy  other  form. 

Whatever  i^  used  must  be  carefully  trimmed  from  every 
bit  of  Skin,  Gristle,  &c. — and  nothing  introduced  but  what 
you  are  absolutely  certain  will  be  acceptable  to  the  Mouth. 

Materials  for  making  Sandwiches. 


Cold  ^eat,  or  Poultry. 
Po^edditto(No.  503.) 
SaTOuiy  ditto  (No.  496.) 
Potted    Lobster    (No.    178,)    or 

Shrimp  (No.  175.) 
Potted  Ciieese  (No.  542.) 
Potted,  orgrnted  Ham  (No.  509.) 
Ditto,  or  grated  Tongue. 
Anchovy  (Nos.  434  and  435.) 
Crerman  Sausage. 


Cold  Pork^  ditto  (No.  87.) 

Hard  Eggs,  pouDded  with  a  little 

Butter  and  Cheese. 
Grated  Ham,  or  Beef. 
.Various    Forcemeats,   &c.    (No. 

373.)  <fec. 
Curry    Powder,    Zest,    Mustard, 

Pepper,  and    Salt,   are   added 

occasionally. 


Meat  CaAe»»— .(No.  504*.) 

If  you  have  any  cold  Meat,  Game,  or  Poultry,  (if  iinder-^ 
done  all  the  better,)  mince  it  fine,  with  a  little  fat  bacon  or 
ham,  or  an  anchovy ;  season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt ; 
mix  well,  and  make  it  into  small  cakes  three  inches  long, 
half, as  wide,  atid  half  an  inch  thick :  fry  these  a  light  browu, 
and  serve  them  with  good  gravy ;  or  put  it  into  a  mould  and 
boiltor  bake  it. 

N.  B.  Bread  crumbs,  hard  yolks  of  Eggs,  Onions,  Swee 


376 


MADB  DtSHES)   &C. 


herbs,  Savoury  Spices,  Zest,  or  Carry  Powder,  or  any  of  the 
Forcemeats,  see  (No.  373  to  382.) 

Fish  Cakes  for  Maigre  Days^  may  be  mftde  in  Hke 
manner. 

Bubbie  and  SqKeak^  or  fried  Beef  or  Mutton  and  Cabbage.'^ 

(No.  605.) 

'*  Wlim  'midst  the  ftymg  Pan,  in  aooents  tavage. 
The  Beef,  so  surlj-,  quarrels  wltk  tlie'Cabba^.** 

DK  Minor. 


!St\>  1  r  r  [  ir  Jl^ 


B       El       £      c-f 


C   ABB  AGE. 


CABBAGE,    BE      £      F. 


or  GS.  Major, 

" — «-* 


m 


t 


-V 


^ 


t 


i£^3 


..JL. 


For  this,  as  for  a  Hash,  select  those  parts  of  the  joi^it  that 
have  been  least  done ; — it  is  generally  made  with  slices  of 
cold  boiled  salted  Beef,  sprid^led  with  a  little  Pepper,  and 
just  lightly  browned  with  a  bit  of  Butter  in  a  frymgpan :  if 
it  is  fried  too  much  it  mil  be  hard. 

Boil  a  Cabbage,  squeeze  it  quite  dry,  and  chop  it  small; 
trite  the  Beef  out  of  the  frying-pan,  and  lay  the  Cabbage  in 
it ;  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  and  salt  over  it :  keep  the  pen 
moving  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  lay  the  Cabbage  in 
the  middle  of  a  dish,  and  the  Meat  round  it. 

For  Sauce,  see  (No.  356J  or  (No.  328.) 


MADE  DTSHfiS,  &C.  377 

Hcuked  Serf  and  Rooit  Beef  Bone$  Boiled.'^{So.  506.) 

To  hash  Beef,  see  Receipt  (Nos.  484,  5,  and  6,)  (Nos. 
360,  484,  and  486.) 

The  best  part  to  hash  is  the  Fillet  or  Inside  of  the  Sirloin^ 
^id  the  good  housewife  will  always  endeavour  to  preserve  it 
entire  for  this  purpose.  See  Ohs.  to  (No.  19,)  and  Mock 
Hare  (No.  67*.) 

Roast  Beef  Bones  furnish  a  very  relishing  Luncheon,  or 
Supper,  prepared  in  the  following  manner,  with  Poached 
Eggs  (No.  546,)  or  Fried  Eggs  (No,  545,)  or  Mashed  Pota* 
toes  (No  106,)  as  accompaniments. 

Divide  the  Bones,  leaving  good  pickings  of  meat  on 
each ; — score  them  in  squares,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  on 
them,  and  sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt :  put  them  in 
a  dish,  set  them  in  a  Dutch  Oven  for  half  or  three  quar- 
ters of  an  liour,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  meat, 
keep  turning  them  till  they  are  quite  hot,  and  brown,  or 
broil  them  on  the  gridiron.  Brown  them,  but  dorCt  butfi 
them  black.    For  Sauce,  (Nos.  355,  or  356.) 

Ox-Cheek  ^SVewcc?.— (No.  507.) 

Prepare  this  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  clean  it,  and 
pnt  it  into  soft  water  just  warm,  let  it  lie  three  or  four  hoars, 
then  put  it  into  cold  ^ater,  and  let  it  soak  all  night;— next 
day  wipe  it  clean,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  ttnd  just  cover  it 
with  water ; — skim  it  well  when  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  then 
put  two  whole  Onions,  stick  two  or  three  Cloves  into  each, 
tlH'ee  Turnips  quartered,  a  couple  of  Carrots  sliced,  t'lVo 
Bay  leaves,  and  twenty-four  corns  of  Allspice,  a  head  oC 
Celery,  and  a  bundle  of  Sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt ;  to 
these,  those  who  are  for  a  *'  Haut  OoUt^'*  may  add  Cayenne 
and  Garliek,  in  such  proportions  as  the  palate  that  requires 
them  may  desire. 

Let  it  stew  gently  till  perfectly  tender,  i.  e.  abont  thre^ 
hours;  then  take  out  the  Cheek,  divide  it  into  handsome 
pieces,  fit  to  help  at  table ;  skim  and  strain  the  gravy ;  melt 
an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  in  a  stewpap,  stir  into  it  as 
much  fkmr  as  it  will  take  up,  mix  with  it  by  degrees  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  the  gravy,  add  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of  Basil, 
Tairagon,  or  Elder  vine^r,  or  the  like  quantity  of  Mush- 


37S  MADE  DI8HES9  &e. 

room,  or  Walnut  catsup,  or  Cavice,  or  Port  wine,*  and  give 
it  a  boil. 

Serve  up  in  a  soup  or  ragout  dish,  or  make  it  into  Barley 
Broth  (No.  204.) 

Obs, — This  is  a  very  economical,  nourishing,  and  savoury 
meal.  See  Ox-Cheek  Soup  (No.  239),  and  Calf*S'heai 
Hashed  (No.  520.) 

Ox^Tails  Stewed.— (^o.  508.) 

Divide  them  into  joints,  wash  them,  parboil  them,  set 
them  on  to  stew  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them, — and 
dress  them  in  the  same  manner  as  we  have  directed  in 
(No.  531),  Stewed  Giblets,  for  which  they  are  an  excellent 
substitute. 

N.  B.  See  Ox-Tail  Soup  (No.  240.) 

Potted  Hdm^  or  Tongue, — (No.  509.) 
Cut  a  pound  of  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  Ham,  or  Tongue, 
and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a-ppund  of  the 
fat,  or  with  fresh  butter,  (in  the  proportion  of  about  two 
ounces  to  a  pouod),  till  it  is  a  fine  paste,  (some  season  it 
by  degrees  with  a  little  pounded  mace  or  allspice) ;  put  it 
close  down  in  pots  for  that  purpose,  and  cover  it  with 
Clarified  Butter  (No.  259),  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  let 
it  stand  one  night  in  a  cool  place.  Send  it  up  in  the  pot, 
or  cut  out  in  thm  slices.     See  Obs.  on  (No.  503.) 

Hashed  Veal^i^o.  5\h) 

Prepare  it  as  directed  in  (No.  484) ;  and  to  make  sauce 
to  warm  Veal,  see  (No.  361;) 

Hashed  or  Minced  VeaL — (No.  511*.) 

To  make  a  Hash,*  cut  the  Meat  into  slices ; — ^to  pre- 
pare Minced  Veal,  mince  it  as  fine  as  possible,  (do  not 
chop  it) ,  put  it  into  a  stewpau  with  a  few  spoonsful  of  Veal 
or  Mutton  Broth,  or  make  some  with  the  Bones  and  Trim- 
mings, as  ordered  for  Veal  Cutlets,  (see  No.  90),  or  (No.  361), 
a  little  Lemon-peel  minced  fine,  a  spoonful  of  milk,  or 
cream ;  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  season  it  with 
I «  I  ■  "  I  ■■  ■  ■  '  - '  ■  I ■         III  .11  I  — 

*  See  Receipt  to  Hash  Mutton  (Xos.  360  and  361,)  and  (No  4S4.) 


MADE  mSHES,   &C.  379 

It,  a  table-spoonful  of  Lemon  pickle,  or  Basil  wine  (No. 
397),  &c.  or  a  pinch  of  Curry  powder. 

*^*  If  you  have  no  Cream,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  a  couple 
<tf  Eggs  with  a  little  milk :  line  the  dish  with  sippets  of 
tightly  toasted  bread. 

Obs. — Minced  Veal .  makes  a  very  pretty  dish,  put  into 
scollop  shells  and  bread-crumbed  over,  and  sprinkled  with 
a  little  butter,  and  browned  in  a  Dutch  Oven,  or  a  cheese- 
toaster. 

To  make  an  excellent  RagoUt  of  Cold  Veal, — No.  512.) 

Either  a  Neck, — ^Loin, — or  Fillet  of  Veal,   will  fiimish 
this  excellent  Ragoat,  with  a  very  little  expense  or  trouble. 

Cut  the  Veal  into  handsome  cutlets;  put  a  piece  of  butter 
or  clean  dripping  into  a  fryingpan;  as  soon  as  it  is  hot, 
flour  and  fry  the  veal  of  a  light  brown :  take  it  put,  and  if 
you  have  no  gravy  ready,  make  some  as  directed  in  the  note 
to  (No.  517,  or  put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  frying- 
pan,  give  it  a  boil-up  for  a  minute,  and  strain  it  into  a  basin 
while  you  make  some  thickening  in  the  following  manner : 
—Put  about  an  ounce  of.  butter  into  a  stewpan;  as  soon  as 
it  melts,  mix  with  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  it  up ;  stir  it 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and  gradually  add  to  it  the 
gravy  you  made  in  the  fryingpan  ;  let  them  simmer  together 
for  ten  minutes  (till  thoroughly  incorporated) ;  season  it 
with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  and  a  wineglass  of  mush- 
room catsup,  or  wine ;  strain  it  through  a  tammis  to  the 
meat;  and  stew  venj  gently  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly 
warmed.  If  you  have  any  ready  boiled  Bacon,  cut  it  in 
slices,  and  put  it  in  to  warm  with  the  meat,  or  (Nos.  526, 
or  527.) 

Veal  Cutlets,  see  (No.  90),  &c. 

Breast  of  Veal  Stewed. — (No.  515.)  *. 

A  breast  of  Veal,  stewed  till  quite  tender,  and  smothered 
with  Onion  sauce,  is  an  excellent  dish,  or  in  the  gravy  or- 
dered in  the  Note  to  (No.  517.) 

Breast  of  Veal  RagoHt.— (No.  517.) 

Take  off  the  under  bone,  and  cut  the  breast  in  half, 
lengthways ;  divide  it  into  pieces,  about  four  inches  long,  by  , 


3S0  MADS  DiSHZS,   &a    ^ 

two  inches  wide,  u  e.  in  Itandsome  pieces,  BOt  too  luge  to 
help  at  once : — put  about  two  ouDces  of  Batter  into  a  fryu^ 
pan,  and  fry  the  Veal  till  it  is  a  light  brown,*  then  piftit 
Hrto  a  stewpan  with  veal  broth,*-<-or  as  mudi  boiling  watts 
as  will  cover  it,  a  bundle  of  sweet  marjorafti,  oommon  «l 
lemon  tliyine,  and  parsley,  with  four  clones,  or  a  tiovpleci 
blades  of  pounded  mace,  three  young  oniims,  or  one  oU  I 
aBfet  m  roll  of  lemon  peel,  a  dozen  corns  of  allspice  bnlisedy  I 
Sffid  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  all  siin* 
met  very  gently  till  the  veal  is  tender,  «•  e.  for  about  an  hour 
and  a  half, — if  it  is  very  thick,  two  hours;  then  strain  off 
as  much  (about  a  quart)  of  the  gravy,  as  you  think  you  will 
want,  into  a  basin ;  set  the  stewpan,  with  the  meat,  &c.  in 
it,  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot.  To  thicken  the  ijhravy  you  have 
taken  out,  put  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  into  a  clean 
stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  iii  as  much  flour  as  it  wiQ 
take,  add  the  gravy  by  degrees,  season  it  with  salt,  let  it 
boil  ten  minutes,  skim  it  well,  and  season  it  with  two  tabl6- 
spoonsful  of  white  wine,  one  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  sanie 
of  lemon  juice ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  it  is  ready :  now  ptit 
the  veal  into  a  ragout  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  throi^  a 
fine  sieve  to  it. 

Or, 

By  keeping  the  Meat  vohole^  you  will  better  preserve  the 
succulence  of  it. 

Put  the  Veal  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter 
and  two  whole  onions,  (such  as  weigh  about  two  ounces 
each),  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  fry  it  about  five  minutes,  then 
cover  it  with  boiling  water;  when  it  boils,  skim  it,  then 

I  •    »,m  ,  M  ,  I  .       I.    ■      »       M  I       ■         ■■  n  I  ■■    * 

*  Some  Cooks  make  the  Grtivy,  &c.  in  the  fbUoWing  Bnlmer:' 
Slice  a  large  Onion,  fry  it  brown,  drain  all  fat  from  it,  and  put  it  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  buncb  of  Sweet  Herbs,  a  coaple  of  dozen  beriiesof 
Alkpibe,  same  of  Black  Pepper^  three  blades  of  Mace,  and  a  piit 
and  a  half  of  water;  cover  down  close,  and  boil  gently  for  half  an 
hour ;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  over  the  Veal,  and  let  it  simfiwr 
gently  for  about  three  hours :  about  half  an  hour  before  it  is  doo^ 
mix  two  table-spoonsful  of  flour  in  a  tea-cupful  of  cold  water,  mix  some 
of  the  gravy  with  ft,  and  then  put  it  into  the  stewpan. 

N.  B.  Three  pints  of  full  gtown  green  pease  are  aoaietiines  added, 
when  the  Veal  is  put  in. 


yut  in  two  small  blades  of  inace,  a  doutu  blades  of  alUpice^ 

$km  same  of  black  peppec;  €over>k  close,  a9<i  let  it  simmer. 

^ntly  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  strain  as  much  of  the 

^ravy  as  yoa  think  you  will  wa^t  into  a  hasin,  put  the  stew- 

foa^  by  the  fire  to  keep  holu     To  thicken  it,  put  an  ounce 

and  a  half  of  better  intp  a  clean  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted, 

alir  in  as  n)uch  flour  as  it  will  take,  add  the  gravy  by  degrees, 

season  it  with  salt,  and  when  it  boils,  it  is  ready.     Put  the 

Veal  on  a  dish,  and  strain,  the  gravy  through  a  fine  sieve 

over  it. 

Obs. — ^Forcemeat  Balls,  see   (No.   375},   &c.    Truffles, 
Morells,  Mushroon^,  and  Curry  powder,  &c.  are  sometimes 
added,  and  Rashers  of  Bacon  or  Ham  (Nos.  526  and  C727,) 
on  Fried  Fork  Sausages  (No.  83.) 
'  N*R  These  »re  nice  dishes  in  the  Pease  seascua. 

Scotch  CoZfap*,— (No.  517*.) 

The  Veal  must  be  cut  the  same  as  for  Cutlets,  in  pieces 
about  as  big  as  a  crown-piece;  flour  them  well,  and  fry 
then  of  a  Hght  brown  in  fresh  butter ;  lay  them  in  a  stew-- 
■an,  dredge  them  over  with,  flour,  and  then  put  in  as  much 
boiling  water  as  will  well  cover  the  veal;  pour  this  in  by 
di^ees,  shaking  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the  flre ;  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  take  ofi"  the  scum,  put  in  one  onion,  a  blade 
of  mace,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  three  quartern  of 
.  an  hour;  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  through  a 
sieve  over  tiiem. 

N.B.  Lemon  Juice — and  Peel, — Wine, — Catsup,  &c-, 
aie  sometimes  added;  add  Cubry  Powi^r,  (No.  456), 
and  yo«  have  Cubby  Collops. 

FcaZO/tt?a*.— (No.  518.) 

Cut  half  a  dozen  slices  off  a  Fillet  of  Veal,  half  an  inch 
thids,  aqd  as  long  and  square  as  you  can ;  flat  them  with  a 
ehoj^pa,  and  rub  them  over  with  an  eg^  that  has  been  beat 
Qtt  a  plate ;  cut  some  fat  bacon  as  thin  as  possible,  the 
$ame  size  aa  the  veal,  lay  it  on  the  veal,  and  rub  it  with  a 
litde  of  the  egg;  make  a  little  veal  forcemeat,  see  receipt 
(No.  375),  and  spread  it  very  thin  over  the  bacon ;  roll  up 
ihe  ohstfS;  tight,,  rub  them  with  the  egg,  and  then  roll  them 


382  MADE  DISHES,    &C. 

in  fine  bread-crumbs;  put  them  on  a  lark  spit,  and 
them  at  a  brisk  fire;  they  will  take  three  quarters  of 
hour. 

Rump  Steaks  are  sometimes  dressed  this  way. 

Mushroom  Sauce,  brown,  (Nos.  305,  or  306,)  or  Beej 
Gravy,  (No.  329.)     Vide  Chapter  on  Sauces,  &c. 

Cold  Calf's  Head  Hiw^ci.— (No.  519.) 
See  Obs.  to  boiled  Calf's  head  (No.  10.) 

CalPs  Head  Hashed,  or  -RogfoiU.— (No,  520.) 

See  (No.  247.) 

Wash  a  Calf's  head,  which,  to  make  this  dish  in  the 
style,  should  have  the  Skin  on,  and  boil  it,  see  (No.  10) ) 
boil  one  half  all  but  enough,  so  that  it  may  be  soon  quite 
done  when  put  into  the  hash  to  warm, — ^the  other  quite 
tender :  from  this  half  take  out  the  bones :  score  it  super- 
ficially, beat  up  an  egg,  put  it  over  the  head-with  a  piuste- 
brush,  and  strew  over  it  a  little  grated  Bread  and  Lemoa 
Peel,  and  Thyme  and  Parsley,  chopped  very  fine,  or  in 
powder,  then  Bread-crumbs,  and  put  it  in  the  Dutch  oven  to 
brown. 

Cut  the  other  half-head  into  handsome  slices,  and  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  Gravy  (No.  329),  or  Turtle 
Sauce  (No.  343,  with  Forcemeat  balls  (Nos.  376,  380), 
Egg-balls,  a  wine-glass  of  white  Wine,  and  some  Catsup, 
&c. ;  put  in  the  meat,  let  it  warm  together,  and  skim  off* 
the  fat 

Peel  the  Tongue,  and  send  it  up  with  the  Brains  round 
it  as  a  side  dish,  as  directed  in  (No.  10,)  or  beat  them  up  in: 
a  basin  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  two  eggs,  some  grated 
lemon-peel,  thyme,  parsley,  and  a  few  leaves  of  very  finely 
minced  sa^e;  rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar,  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg :  fry  them  (in  little 
cakes)  a  very  light  brown ;  dish  up  the  hash  with  the  half- 
head  you  browned  in  the  middle,  and  garnish  with  crisp  or 
curled  rashers  of  Bacon,  fried  Bread  Sippets  (No,  319), 
(Nos.  526,  and  527),  and  the  Brain  Cakes. 

N,  B.  It  is  by  far  the  best  way  to  make  a  Side  Disk  of 
the  Tongue  and  Bi{AINS,  if  you  do  send  up  a  piece  of 


MADE  DISHES,   &C.  383 

Bacon  as  a  companion  for  it,  or  garnish  the  Tongue  and 
drains  with  the  rashers  of  Bacon  and  the  Forcemeat  balls, 
both  of  which  are  much  better  kept  dry  than  when  im- 
mersed in  the  gravy  of  the  Ragout. 

O65.— In  order  to  make  what  Common  Cooks,  who 
merely  cook  for  the  eye,  call  a  fine — large — handsome  Dish~ 
J\d^  they  put  in  not  only  the  eatable  parts,  but  all  the  knots 
of  gristle  and  lumps  of  fat,  offal,  &c.;  and  when  the  Grtmd 
Gourmand  fancies  he  is  helped  as  plentifully  as  he  could 
wish,  he  often  finds  one  solitary  morsel  of  meat,  among 
a  large  lot  of  lumps  of  gristle,  fat,  &c. 

We  have  seen  a  very  elegant  dish  of  the  Scalp  only  sent 
to  table  rolled  up — it  looks  like  a  sucking  Pig. 

Veal  Cutlets  Broiled  plain^  or  Fall'dressed,-—(^o,  521.) 

Divide  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  Veal  into  cutlets,  one 
rib  to  each, — ^broil  them  plain,  or  make  some  fine  bread- 
crumbs ; — mince  a  little  parsley,  and  a  very  little  shallot,  as 
small  as  possible,,  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  two 
ounces  of  butter,  and  fry  it  for  a  minute, — then  put  on  a 
plate  the  yolks  of  a  couple  of  Eggs,  mix  the  herbs,  &c.  with  * 
it,  and  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt :  dip  the  Cutlets  into 
this  mixture,  and  then  into  the  Bread; — ^lay  them  qj[i  a 
Gridiron  over  a  clear  slow  fire  till  they  are  nicely  browned 
on  both  sides, — ^they  will  take  about  an  hour :  send  up  with 
them  a  few  slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon  fried,  or  done  in  the 
Dutch  oven.  See  (Nos.  526  and  527),  and  half  a  pint  of 
(No.  343),  or  (No.  356.) 

Knuckle  of  Veal  to  RagoUt, — (No.  522.) 

Cut  a  knuckle  of  Veal  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick ; 
pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them ;  fry  them  a  light  brown ;  put 
the  trinlmings  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  bone  broke  in  seve- 
ral places;  an  onion  sliced,  a  head  of  celery,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  two  blades  of  bruised  Mace :  pour  in  warm 
>vater  enough  to  cover  them  about  an  inch :  cover  the  pot 
close,  and  let  it  stew  very  gently  for  a  couple  of  hours :  strain 
it,  and  then  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter ;  put  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  Catsup,  a  glass  of  wine,  and  juice  of  h^f  a  lemon ; 


o 


84  MADE  DISHES,   &C. 

ffive  it  a  boil  \xp,  and  strain  into  a  clean  stewpan :  put  m 
me  meat,  make  it  hot,  and  serve  up. 

06*. — If  Celery  is  not  to  be  had,  use  a  Carrot  instead,  oi 
flavour  it  with  Cekry  Seed,  or  (No.  409.) 

KiiMckle  of  Veal  stewed  with  Rice. — (No.  52^.) 

As  boiled  knuckle  of  Veal  cold  is  not  a  veiy  iaTotirite 
relish  with  the  generality,  cut  off  some  Steaks  from  it,  which 
you  may  dress  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  or  (No.  521), 
and  leave  the  Knuckle  no  lai^er  than  will  be  eaten  the  day 
it  is  dressed.  Break  the  shank  bone,  wash  it  clean,  and 
put  it  in  a  large  stewpan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  an  Ooioo, 
two  blades  of  Mace,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  Salt :  set  it  on  a 
quick  fire;  when  it  boils,  take  off  all  the  scum. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Rice,  put  it  into 
the  stewpan  with  the  Meat,  and  let  it  stew  very  gently  for 
about  two  hours :  put  the  Meat,  &c.  in  a  deep  dish,  smd  the 
Rice  round  it. 

Send  up  Bacon  with  it.  Parsnips,  or  Greens,  and  fineiy 
minced  Parsley  aad  Butter  (No.  261.) 

Mr.  Gay's  Receipt  to  Stew  a  Knuckle  of  Veal.     (No.  524.) 

Take  a  knuckle  of  Veal ; 
Tou  may  buy  it  or  steal: 
Id  a  few  pieces  cut  it, 
In  a  stewing^pan  put  it ; 
Sttltt  pepper,  and  mace, 

Must  season  this  kmickle ; 
Then,  what's  joined  to  a  place* 

With  other  herbs  muckle; 
That  which  kill'd  King^  Willf, 
And  what  never  stands  stilly ; 
Some  sprigs  of  that  hed|| 
Where  children  are  bred. 
Which  much  you  wiU  mend,  if 
.  Both  spinach  and  endive. 
And  lettuce  and  beet, 
^  With  marj'gold  meet. 

Put  no  water  at  all. 
For  it  maketh  things  small. 


*  Vulgo,  salavf,  f  Supposed  sorrell. 

I  This  is,  by  Dr.  Bentley,  thought  to  be  time,  ortfayme. 

[|    Parsl^,      Vide  ClIAMBERLAYME. 


MADE  DISHES,  &C.  385 

Which  lest  it  should  happen, 
A  close  cover  clap  on : 
Put  this  pot  of  Wood's  metal  • 
lo  a  boiling  hot  kettle  ; 
And  there  let  it  be, 

(Mark  the  doctrine  I  teach,) 
About,  let  me  see, 

Thrice  as  long  as  you  preacb.t    - 
So  skimming  the  fat  off. 
Say  grace  with  your  hat  off, 
O !  then  with  what  rapture 
WiU  it  fill  Dean  and  Chapter ! 

SUces  of  Ham  or  Bacon* — (No,  526.) 

Ham,  x>T  Bacon,  may  be  fried,  or  broiled  on  a  gridiron 
over  a  clear  "fire,  or  toasted  with  a  fork : — take  care  to 
slice  it  of  the  same  thickness  in  every  part. 

If  you  wish  it  curled,  cut  it  in  slices  about  two  inches 
long,  \\f  lonp;er,  the  outside  will  be  done  too  much,  before 
the  inside  is  done  enough;)  roll  it  up,  and  put  a  little 
wooden  skewer  through  it:  put  it  in  a  Cheese-toaster,  or 
Dutch  oven,  for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  turning  it  as  it  gets 
crisp. 

This  is  considered  the  handsomest  way  of  dressing  Bacon ; 
— ^but  we  like  it  best  uncurled,  because  it  is  crisper,  and 
more  equally  done. 

06«.r— Slices  of  Ham  or  Bacon  should  not  be  more  than 
half  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  will  eat  much  more  mel- 
low if  soaked  in  hot  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then 
dried  in  a  cloth  before  they  are  broiled,  &c. 

Relishing  Rashers  of  Bacon. —  (No.  527.) 

If  you  have  any  Cold  Bacon,  you  may  make  a  very  nice 
dish  of  it  by  cutting  it  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick ;  grate  some  crust  of  bread,  as  directed  for  Ham,  see 
^No.  14,)  and  powder  them  well  with  it  on  both  sides;  lay 
the  rashers  in  a  Cheese-toaster, — they  will  be  browned  on 
one  side  in 'about  three  minutes; — turn  them  and  do  the 
other. 


*  Of  this  com))osition,  isee  the  works  of  the  copper  fertbing  dean, 
t  Which  we  suppose  to  be  near  four  hours. 

S 


f 


#. 


386  JfADK  I»8HES>  &€• 

Obs. — ^These  are  a  delicious  aocompaniment  to  poached, 
or  fried  Eggs: — ^the  Bacon  having  been  boiled*  first,  is 
tender  and  mellow. — ^Th^y  are  an  excellent  garnish  round 
Veal  Cutlets,  or  Sweet-breads,  or  Cairs-head  Hash,  or 
Green  Pease,  or  Beans,  &c. 

Hashed  Venison. — (No.  528.) 

If  you  have  enough  of  its  own  Gravy  left,  it  is  preferable 
to  any  to  warm  it  up  in : — ^if  not,  talfe  some  of  the  Mutton 
Gravy  (No.  347,)  or  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  joint, 
(aQer  you  have  cut  off  all  the  handsome  slices  you  can,  to 
make  we  hash ;)  put  these  into  some  water,  and  stew  them 
gently  for  an  hour :  then  put  some  butter  into  a  stewpan ; 
when  melted,  put  to  it  as  much  flour  as  will  dry  up  the 
butter,, and  stir  it  well  together;  add  to  it,  by  degrees,  the 
Gravy  you  have  been  making  of  the  trimmings,  and  some 
Red  Currant  Jelly,  give  it  a  boil  up,  skim  it,  strain  it  tbroc^ 
a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  receive  the  Venison  ;  put  it  m, 
and  let  it  just  get  warm: — ify(M  let  U  boU^  ii  will  make 
the  Meat  hard. 

Hashed  Hare.'^(^o.  529.) 

Cut  up  the  Hare  into  pieces,  fit  to  help  at  table,  and 
divide  the  joints  of  the  leg^  and  shoulders,  and  set  them  by 
ready. 

Put  the  trimmings  and  gravy  ydu  have  left,  with  half  a 
pint  of  water,  (there  should  be  a  pint  of  liquor,)  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Currant  Jelly,  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  it  throiK;h  a 
sieve  into  a  basin,  and  pour  it  back  into  the  stewpan ;  now 
flour  the  Hare,  put  it  into  the  gravy,  and  let  it  simmer  veiy 
gently  till  the  Hare  is  warm  (about  twenty  minutes,)  cut  the 
Stuffing  into  slices,  and  put  it  into  the  hash  to  get  warm^ 
about  five  minutes  before  you  serve  it ;  divide  the  head,  and 
lay  one  half  on  each  side  the  dish. 

For  Hare  Soup,  see  (No.  241,)  Mock  Hare  (No.  66*.] 


To  boil  Bacon,  see  (No.  13.) 


M ABR  DISHBS,  &C.  387 


Jugged  Uarc— (No.  529*.) 

Wasli  it  very  nicely,  cut  it  up  into  pieces  proper  to  help 
at  table,  and  put  them  into  a  Jugging  Pot,  (these  are  made 
by  Lloyd,.  No.  178,  Strand,)  or  into  a  Stcme  Jar,*  just 
sufficiently  laree  to  well  hold  it ;  put  in  some  Sweet  Herbs, 
h  roll  or  two  of  rind  of  a  Lemon,  or  a  Seville  Orange,  and  a 
fine  large  Onion  with  five  cloves  stuck  in  it, — and  if  you  wish 
to  preserve  the  flavour  of  the  Hare^  a  quarter  pint  of  water ; 
if  you  are  for  a  Ragoiiti  a  quarter  pint  of  claret,  or  Port  wine, 
and  the  j  uice  of  a  Seville  Orange,  or  Lemon :  tie  the  jar 
down  closely  with  a  bladder,  so  that  no  steam  can  escape ; 
put  a  little  hay  in  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan,  in  which  place 
the  jar,  and  pour  in  water  till  it  reaches  within  four  inches  oi 
the  top  of  the  jar ;  let  the  water  boil  for  about  three  hours, 
according  to  the  age  and  size  of  the  hare,  (take  care  it  is  not 
over^dane^  which  is  the  general  fault  in  all  made  dishes, 
especially  this,)  keeping  it  boiling  all  the  time,  and  fill  up 
the  pot  as  it  boils  away.  When  quite  tender,  strain  off  the 
gravy  clear  from  fat,  thicken  it  with  Hour,  and  give  it  a  boil 
up : — ^lay  the  Hare  in  a  soup-dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  to  it. 

06«.— You  may  make  a  Puddii^,  the  same  as  for  Roast 
Ifere,  see  (No.  397,)  and  boil  it  in  a  doth ;  and  when  you 
dish  up  your  Hare,  cut  it  in  slices,  or  make  Forcemeat  l^ls 
of  it,  for  garnish. 

For  Sauce,  (No.  346.) 


*  Meat  dressed  by  the  heat  of  boiling  water,  without  being  imme- 
diately exposed  to  it,  is  a  mode  of  cookery  that  deienres  to  be  more 
gaiMrally  employed  :  it  becomes  delicately  tender,  without  being  over- 
done,  and  the  whole  oC  the  nonrishmeot  and  gcavy  is  preserved.  Thi«, 
in  chemical  technicals,  ia  called  Balneum  MariSf  a  Water  Bath  ;  in 
culinary,  Bain  Marir  ;  which  A.  Chappellb,  in  his  '*  ModemCook," 
8to.  page  26,  London,  1744,  translates  '« Mary's  Bath.'*  See  Note  to 
(No.  485.) 

Mary  Smith,  in  her  **  Complete  Howekeepefy"  1772,  8vo.  pages 
193  and  247,  translates^  *'  Sauce  Robert,*^  Rob-Boat  Sauce,— aQ 
*'  Omelette,**  a  RAMLET,*~and  gives  you  a  receipt  how  to  main 
'<  Soupe  a  la  Rain  !" 

^  S  2 


388  HAOB  DISHB8,  &C, 

Or, 

A  much  easier  and  quicker,  and  more  certain  way  of  pro^^ 
ceeding,  is  the  following : — 

Prepare  the  Hare  the  same  as  for  jugging,  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  few  Sweet  Herbs,  half  a  dozen  Cloves,  the 
same  of  Allspice  and  Black  pepper,  two  large  Onions,  and  a 
roll  of  Lemon  peel :  cover  it  with  water ;  when  it  boils,, 
scum  it  clean,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  tender  (about  two 
hours,)  then  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  set  it  by  the  fire  to  keep 
hot  while  you  thicken  the  gravy ;  take  three  ounces  of  butter, 
and  some  flour,  rub  together,  put  in  the  gravy,  stir  it  well, 
and  let  it  boil  about  ten  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  siieve, 
over  the  Hare,  and  it  is  ready. 

Dressed  Ducks,  or  Geese  Hashed, — (No.  530.) 

Cut  an  Onion  into  small  dice  ;  put.  it  into  a  stewpan,  with 
a  bit  of  Butter ;  fry  it,  but  do  not  let  it  get  any  colour :  put 
as  much  boiling  water  into  the  stewpan  as  will  make  sauce 
for  the  hash  ;  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  cut  up  the  duck, 
and  put  it  into  the  sauce  to  warm ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  season 
it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  catsup. 

N.  B.  The  Legs  of  Geese,  &c.  hroiled,  and  laid  on  abed 
of  Apple  Sauce,  are  sent  up  for  Luncheon  or  Supper. 

Or, 

Divide  the  Duck  into  joints ;  lay  it  by  ready :  put  the 
trimmings  and  stuffing  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  broth  or  water,  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  then  rub  it 
through  a  sieve ; — ^put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stewpan  } 
as  it  melts,  mix  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  with  it,  stir  it  over 
the  fire  a  few  minutes,  then  mix  the  gravy  with  it  by  de- 
gree?;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  take  off  the  scum,  and  strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  stewpan :  put  in  the  Duck,  and  let 
it  stew  very  gently  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  if  the  Duck  is 
rather  under-roasted :  if  there  is  any  fat,  skim  it  oiF :  line 
the  dish  you  serve  it  up  in  with  sippets  of  bread  eitlrer  fried' 
or  toasted. 


MADE  DISHES,  &C.  3B9 


Ragouts  of  Poultry,  Game,  Pigeons,  Rabbits,  &c. 

(No.  530*.) 

Half  roast  it,  then  stew  it  whole,  or  divide  it  into  joints 
and  pieces  proper  to  help  at  table,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan, 
with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  broth,— or  as  much  water, — with 
any  trimmings  or  parings  of  meat  you  have,  one  large  Onion 
with  cloves  stiick  m  it,  twelve  berries  of  Allspice,  the  same 
of  Black  Pepper,  and  a  roll  of  Lemon-peel ;  when  it  boils, 
scum  it  very  clean,  let  it  simmer  verjf  gently  for  about  an 
hour  and  a  quarter,  if  a  Duck  or  Fowl, — longer  if  a  larger 
Bird ;  then  stiain  off  the  liquor,  and  leave  the  Ducks  by  the 
fire  to  keep  hot,  scum  the  fat  off; — put  into  a  clean  stewpan 
two  ounces  of  Butter,  when  it  is  hot,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as 
will  make  it  of  a  stitf  paste,  add  the  liquor  by  degrees,  let  it 
boil  up,  put  in  a  glass  of  Port  wine  and  a  little  Lemon-juice, 
and  simmer  it  ten  minutes  ;  put  the  Ducks,  &c.  into  the  dish, 
and  strain  the  sauce  through  a  fine  sieve  over  them. 

Garnish  with  sippets  of  toasted,  or  fried  Bread,  (No.  319.) 
Ohs, — If  the  Poultry  is  only  half  roasted,  and  stewed  only 
till  just  nicely  tender,  this  will  be  an  acceptable  Bonne 
Bouche  to  those  who  are  fond  of  Made  Dishes.  The  flavour 
may  be  varied  by  adding  Catsup, — Curry  Powder,— or  any 
of  the  flavoured  Vinegars. 

This  is  an  easy  prepared  side  dish,  especially  when  you 
have  a  large  Dinner  to  dress;  and  coming. <o  table,  ready 
carved,  saves  a  deal  of  time  and  trouble ;  it  is,  therefore,  an 
excellerU  way  of  serving  Poultry y  8fc,  for  a  Large  Party, 

Or, 

Roast,  or  boil  the  Poultry,  in  the  usual  way ;  then  cut  it 
up,  'and  pour  over  it  a  sufficient  quantity  of  (No.  305,)  or 
<No.  329,)  or  (No.  364,  or  No.  2.) 

Stewed  Giblets.-~(M.  531.) 

,  Clean  two  sets  of  Giblets :  see  Receipt  for  Giblet  Soup 
{No.  244),  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  just  cover  thent  witn 
cold  water,  and  set  them  on  the  fire ;  when  they  boil,  take 
off  the  scum,  and  put  in  an  Onion,  three  Cloves,  or  two 


390  MADE  DiSHBSy  AsC 

blades  of  Mace,  a  few  berries  of  Black  Pepper,  the  same 
of  All^tce,  and  half  m  tea-spoonful  of  Stltt ;  cowr  the  ctew- 
pan  close,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently  till  the  Giblets  aie 
quite  tender; — ^this  wUl  take  from  one  how  and  a  half,  to 
two  and  a  half,  according  to  the  age  of  the  Giblets,— -the 
pinions  will  be  dooe  first,  and  must  then  be  taken  out,  and 
put  in  again  to  warm  when  the  Gizzards  are  done :  watch 
them  that  they  do  not  get  too  much  done: — take  them 
out  and  thicken  the  sauce  with  Flour  and  Butter  ^-^kt 
it  boil  half  an  hour,  or  till  there  is  just  enough  to  eat 
with  the  Giblets;  and  then  strain  it  through  a  tammis 
into  a  clean  stewpan ;— cut  the  Giblets  into  roouthfuls,  put 
them  into  the  Sauce,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  atable» 
spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup ; — pour  the  whole  into  a  soup 
dish,  with  sippets  of  Bread  at  the  bottom. 

Obs. — Ox-tails,  prepared  in  the  same  way  are  excellent 
eating. 

Hashed  PovUtnj,  Game  or  Rabbit.— {^o.  533.) 

Cut  them  into  joints,  put  the  trimmings  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  quart  of  the  Broth  they  were  boiled  in,  and 
a  large  Onion  cut  in  four;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour;  strain  it 
through  a  sieve :  then  put  two  table-spoonsful  of  Flour  in  a 
basin,  and  mix  it  well  by  degrees  with  the  hot  Broth ;  set  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil  up,  then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve : 
wash  out  the  stewpan,  lay  the  Poultry  in  it,  and  pour  the 
gravy  on  it  (through  a  sieve) ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
simmer  very  gently  (it  must  not  boilj  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
five  minutes  iJefore  you  serve  it  up,  cut  the  stuffing  in  slices, 
and  put  it  in  to  warm,  then  take  it  out,  and  lay  it  round  the 
edge  of  the  dish,  and  put  the  Poultry  in  the  middle ;  carefully 
skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  then  shake  it  roimd  well  in  the 
stewpan,  and  pour  it  to  the  Hash. 

N.  B.  You  may  garnish  the  dish  with  Bread  Sippets 
lightly  toasted. 

PuUed  Tarkey,  Fowl,  or  Chicken. — (No.  534.) 

Skin  a  cold  Chicken,  Fowl,  or  Turkey;  take  off  the 
fillets  from  the  breasts,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
the  rest  of  the  white  meat  and  wings,  side-bones,  and 
merry-thought,  with  a  pint  of  broth,  a  large  blade  of  mace 


MADB  DISHES,  kt.  391 

pounded,  a  shallot  minced  fine,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon> 
and  a  roll  of  the  peel,  some  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  Cay- 
enne ;  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  and  let  it  simmer 
for  two  or' three  minutes,  till  the  meat  is  warm.  In  the 
meantime  score  the  legs  and  rump,  powder  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  broil  them  nicely  brown,  and  lay  them  on,  or 
round  your  pulled  chicken. 

Obs. — Three  taUe-spoonsful  of  good  cream,  or  the  yolks  of 
as  many  Eggs,  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  it. 

To  dress  Dressed  Turkey,  Goose,  Fowl,  Duc^,  Pigeon, 

or  ila66i«.— (No.  535.) 

Cut  them  in  quarters,  beat  up  an  Eis^g  or  two,  (according 
to  the  quantity  you  dress)  with  a  little  grated  Nutmeg,  and 
Pepper  and  Salt,  some  Parsley  minced  fine,  and  a  few 
crumbs  of  Bread ;  mix  these  well  together,  and  cover  the 
Fowl,  &.C.  with  this  batter ;  broil  them,  or  put  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  or  have  ready  some  dripping  hot  in  a  pan,  in 
which  fry  them  a  light  brown  colour;  thicken  a  little  gravy 
with  some  flour,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  Catsup  to  it,  lay  the 
fry  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  round  it.  You  may 
garnish  with  slices  of  Lemon  and  toasted  Bread.  See  (No. 
355*) 

Dew/.— (No.  538.) 

The  Gizzard  and  Rump,  or  Legs,  &c.  of  a  dressed  Turkey, 
Capon,  or  Goose,  or  Mutton  or  Veal  Kidney,  scored, — 
Peppered, — Salted, — and  Broiled,  sent  up  fpr  a  relish,— 
heing  made  very  hot,  has  obtained  the  name  of  a  **  Devil.'* 

06*.— This  is  sometimes  surrounded  with  (No.  356),  or 
a  sauce  of  thick  melted  butter  or  gravy,  flavoured  with  Cat- 
sup (No.  439),  Essence  of  Anchovy,  or  (No.  434),  Shallot 
wine  (No.  402),  Curry  stuff,  (No.  455)  &c.  See  Turtle  Sauce 
(No.  343),  or  Grill  Sauce  (No.  355),  which  as  the  Palates 
of  the  present  day  are  adjusted,  will  perhaps  please  Grands 
Gourmands  as  well  as  "  veritable  Sauce  d*Lnfer.^* — Vide 
School  for  the  Officers  of  the  Mouth,  page  368,  18mo. 
London,  1682. 

**  Every  man  must  have  experienced  that— when  be  has  got  deep 
into  bis  third  bottle — his  palate  acquires  a  degree  of  torpidity,  and  bis 


392  MADE  DISHES^  &C; 

stomach  is  seiied  with  a  certain  craving;^  which  seem  to  demand  s 
stimulant  to  the  powers  of  both.  The  provocatives  used  on  such  occa- 
sions, an  ungrateful  world  has  combined  to  term  devils. 

*'  The  diahkt  aufeu  d*enfer,  or  dry  devifs,  are  usunUy  composed  of 
the  broiled  legs  and  gizzards  of  poultr}',  fisb-bones>  or  biscuit.*,  and,  if 
pungency  alone  can  justify  their  appeUntion,  never  was  title  better  de- 
served, for  they  are  usually  prepared  without  any  other  attention  than 
to  make  them  **  hot  as  their  native  element/^  and  any  one  who  can 
swallow  them  without  tears  in  his  eyes,  need  be  under  no  apprehension 
of  the  pains  of  futurity.  It  is  true,  they  answer  the  purpose  of  exciting 
thirst;  but  they  excoriate  the  palate,  vitiate  its  nicer  powers  of  discri- 
mination, and  pall  the  relish  for  the  high  flavour  of  good  wine :  in 
shorty  no  man  should  venture  upon  them  whose  throat  is  not  paved  with 
mosaic,  unless  they  be  seasoned  by  a  cook  who  can  poise  the  pepper- 
box with  as  even  a  hand  as  a  judge  should  the  scales  of  justice. 

*'  It  would  be  an  insult  to  tiie  understanding  of  our  readers,  to  sup- 
pose them  ignorant  of  the  usual  mode  of  treating  comnioa  devils ;  but 
we  shall  make  no  apology  for  giving  the  most  minute  instructions  f(V 
the  preparation  of  a  gentler  stimulant,  which,  besides,  possesses  this 
advantage— that  it  may  be  all  done  at  the  table,  either  by  yourself,  or  at 
least  under  your  own  immediate  inspection. 

**  Mix  equal  parts  of  fine  salt,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  curry  powder, 
with  double  t^e  quantity  of  powder  of  truffles:  dissect  secundum 
artem,.  a  brace  of  woodcocks  rather  under-roasted,  split  the  heads,  sub- 
divide the  wings,  <&c.  <&:c.  and  powder  the  whole  genily  over  with  the 
mixture ;  crush  the  trail  and  brains  along  with  the  yolk  of  a  hard- 
boiled  egg,  a  small  portion  of  pounded  mace,  the  grated  peel  of  half  s 
lemon,  and  half  a  spoonful  of  soy,  until  the  ingredients  be  brought  to  the 
consistence  of  a  fine  paste :  then  add  a  table>^poonful  of  catsup^  a  full 
wine-glass  of  Madeira,  and  the  juico  of  two  Seville  oranges :  throw  this 
sauce,  along  wkh  the  birds,  into  a  silver  stew-d^sh  to  be  lieated  with 
spirits  of  wine— -cove?  dose  up — light  the  lamp — and  keep  gently  sim- 
mering, and  occasionally  stirring,  until  the  flesh  has  imbibed' the  greater 
ji)art  of  the  liquid.  When  yoa  have  reason  to  suppose  it  is  completely 
saturated,  pour  in  a  small  quantity  of  salad  oil,  stir  all  onoe  more  well 
together,  **  put  out  the  light,  and  (hen ! "' — serve  it  round  instantly ;  for 
it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say,  that  a  devil  should  not  only  be  hotis' 
itself,  but  eaten  hot. 

*'  There  is,  however,  one  precaution  to  be  used  in  eating  it,  to  which 
we  most  earnestly  recommend  the  most  particular  attention,  and  for 
want  of  which,  more  than  one  accident  has  occurred.  It  is  not,  as 
some  people  might  suppose-— to  avoid  eating  too  much  of  it — for  that 
your  neighbours  will  take  good  care  to  prevent;  but  it  is  this:— in 
order  to  pick  the  bones,  you  must  necessarily  take  some  portion  of  it 
with  your  fingers;  and,  as  they  thereby  become  impregnated  with  it» 
flavour,  if  you  afterwards  chance  to  let  them  touch  your  toi^goe — ^yo» 
will  infallibly  lick  them  to  the  bone,  if  you  do  not  swaUow  them  entire.'* 
— 5<?e  page  1^4,(&c.  of  the  entertaining  <<  Essays  ok  Good  Li%iko/' 
just  published. 


CRUSTS  FOR  WINE.  393 

Crusts  of  Bread  for  Cheese^  &c. — (No.  538*.)   - 

It  is  not  uncommon  to  see  both  in  private  families  and  at 
Taverns  a  loaf  entirely  spoiled — by  furious  Epicures  paring 
off  the  cru§t  to  eat  with  cheese ; — ^to  supply  this — and  to  eat 
with  Soups,  &c. — ^puli  lightly  into  small  pieces,  the  crumb 
bf  a  new  lo^&f,  put  them  on  a  tin  plate  or  in  a  baking  dish, 
set  it  in  a  tolerably  brisk  oven  till  they  are  crisp  and  nicely 
browned — ^'or  do  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

Toast  and  Cheese. — (No.  539.) 

**  Happy  the  man  that  has  each  fortune  tried, 
To  whom  she  much  has  giv*n,  and  much  denied ; 
With  abstinence  all  delicates  he  sees, 
And  can  regale  himself  on  toast  and  cheese.'' 

Ki N  o*s  Jrt  of  Cookery. 

Cut  a  slice  of  Bread  about  half  an  inch  thick,  pare  off  the 
crust,  and  toast  it  very  slightly  on  one  side  so  as  just  to  brown 
ity  without  making  it  hard  or  burning  it. 

Cut  a  slice  of'  Cheese  (good  fat  mellow  Cheshire  cheese, 
or  double  Gloster,  is  better  than  poor,  thin  single  Gloster), 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  not  so  big  as  the  bread  by  half 
an  inch  on  each  s'de ; — pare  off  the  rind,— cut  out  all  the 
specks  and  rotten  parts,*  and  lay  it  on  the  toasted  Bread  in  a 
cheese-toaster ;— carefully  watch  it,  that  it  does  not  bum, 
and  stir  it  with  a  spoon,  to  prevent  a  pellicle  forming  on  the 
surface.  Have,  ready  good  Mustard,  Pepper  and  Salt. 
.  If  you  observe  the  directions  here  given,  the  Cheese  will 
eat  mellow,  and  will  be  uniformly  done,  and  the  Bread  crisp 
and  soft,  and  will  well  deserve  its  ancient  appellation  of  a 
**  Rare  Bit:' 

Ohs. — ^Qne  would  think  nothing  can  be  easier,  than  to 
prepare  a  Welsh  Rabbit  ;^^yetf  not  only  in  Private  families, 
but  at  Taverns,  it  is  very  seldom  sent  to  table  in  perfection. 
— We  have  attempted  to  account  for  this  in  the  last  para- 
graph of  06^.  to  (No.  493.) 


*  Rotten  Cheese  toasted,  is  the  ne  plus  ultra  of  Havt  GoUt, — and 
only  eatable  by  the  thorough-bied  Gourmand,  in  the  most  inirerted 
state  of  hit  jaded  Appetite. 

s5 


394  T0A8TBD  CHBESE. 

Toasted  Cheese^  No.  2.— (No.  540.) 

We  have  nothing  to  add  to  the  directions  given  for  toast- 
ing the  Cheese  in  the  last  receipt,  except  that  in  sending  it 
up, — it  will  save  mtmh  Time  in  portumi'ng  it  out  at  table,  if 
you  have  half  a  dozen  small  Silver  or  Tin  pans  to  fit  into 
the  Cheese  Toaster,  and  do  the  Cheese  in  these :  each  per- 
son may  then  be  helped  to  a  separate  pan,  and  it  will  keep 
the  Cheese  much  hotter  than  the  usual  way  of  eating  it  oa  a 
cold  plate. 

Mem. — Send  up  with  it  as  many  CobUrs*  as  you  hate 
Pans  of  Cheese. 

Obs. — Ceremony  seldom  triumphs  more  completely  over 
Comfort,  than  in  the  serving  out  of  this  dish ;  — ^which,  to  be 
presented  to  the  Palate  in  perfection,  it  is  imperatively  indis- 
pensable, that  it  be  introduced  to  the  Mouth  as  soon  as  it 
appears  on  the  Table. 

Buttered  Toast  and  Cheese, ^(l^o.  541.) 

Prepare  a  round  of  Toast; — ^butter  it ; — grate  over  it  good 
Cheshire  Cheese  about  half  the  thickness  of  the  toast,  and 
^ve  it  a  brown. 

Pounded  Cheese. ^(^o.  542.) 

Cut  a  pound  of  good  mellow  Chedder,  Cheshire  or  North 
Wiltshire  cheese  into  thin  bits,  add  to  it  two,  and  if  the 
Cheese  is  dry,  three  ounces  of  fresh  Butter,  pound  and  rub 
them  well  together  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  quite  smooth. 

06«.--*-When  Cheese  is  dry,  and  for  those  whose  digestion 
is  feeble,  this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  it,  and  spread  on 
Bread,  it  makes  an  excellent  Luncheon  or  Supper. 

N.  B.  The  piquance  of  this  is  sometimes  increased  by 
pounding  with  it  Curry  Powdei:,  (No.  455),  Grormid  Spice, 
Black  Pepper,  Cayenne,  and  a  little  made  Mustard ;  and 
some  moisten  it  with  a  glass  of  Sherry.  If  pressed  down 
hard  in  a  jar,  and  covered  with  clarified  Butter,  it  will  keep 
for  several  days  in  cool  weather. 

^^mafmrnm^m,^^     III  I  >  ■■ ■ii»iii 

*  The  Nursery  name  for  Bread  Toasted  on  one  side  only. 


MACCARONI.  395 

Maccaroni.-— (No.  543.)    See  Maeearom  PudiUng  for  the 

Boiling  it. 

The  usual  mode  of  dressing  it  in  this  country  is  by  adding  a 
white  sauce,  and  Parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese,  and  burn- 
ing it ;  but  this  makes  a  dish  which  is  proverbially  unwhole- 
some :  but  its  bad  qualities  arise  from  the  oiled  and  burnt 
cheese^  and  the  half-dressed  flour  and  butter  put  into  the 
white  sauce. 

Maccaroni  plain  boiled,  and  some  rich  stock  or  portable 
soup  added  to  it  quite  hot,  will  be  found  a  delicious  dish, 
and  very  wholesome.  Or  boil  Maccaroni  as  directed  in  the 
receipt  for  the  Pudding,  and  serve  it  quite  hot ,  in  a  deep 
tureen,  and  let  each  guest  add  grated  Parmesan  smd  cold 
.butter,  or  oiled  butter  served  hot,  and  it  is  excellent;  this  is 
the  most  common  Italian  mode  of  dressing  it.  Maccaroni, 
with  Cream,  Sugar,  and  Cinnamon,  or  a  little  Fance/lt  added 
to  the  Cream,  makes  a  very  nice  sweet  dish. 

English  way  of  dressing  MaosaronL 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Ribbon  Maccaroni  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  pint  of  boiling  Milk,  or  Broth,  or  Water ;  let  it 
boil  gently  till  it  is  tender,  this  will  take  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour — ^then  put  in  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sdt,  mix  it  well  together,  and  put  it  on  a  dish — 
and  strew  over  it  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  or  Cheshire 
Cheese^— and  give  it  a  light  brown  in.  a  Dutch  oven. — Or 
put  all  the  Cheese  into  the  Maccaroni,  and  put  Bread  crumbs 
over  the  top. 

Maccaroni  is  very  good  put  into  a  thick  Sauce  with  some 
shreds  of  dressed  Ham,  or  in  a  Curry  Sauce.  Riband  Mac- 
caroni is  best  for  these  dishes,  and  should  not  be  done  so 
much. 

Maccaroni  Pudding. 

One  of  the  most  elegant  preparations  of  Maccaroni  is  the 
Timhalle  de  Mac(?aronu  Simmer  half  a  pound  of  Maccaroni 
in  plenty  of  water,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  till  it  is 
tenriler ;  but  take  care  not  to  have  it  too  soft ;  though  tender 
it  should  be  firm,  and  the  form  entirely  preserved,  and  no 
part  beginning  to  melt,  (this  caution  will  serve  for  the  pre- 


396  OMELETTES. 

pa  ration  of  all  Maccaroni).  'Strain  the  water  from  it — beat 
op  five  yolks  of  the  white  of  two  eggs — take  half  a  pint  of 
the  best  cream,  and  the  breast  of  a  fowl,  and  some  thin 
slices  of  Ham.  Mince  the  breast  of  •  the' fowl  with  the 
Uam — add  them  with  from  two  to  three  table-spoonsful 
of  finely  grated  Parmesan  Cheese,  and  season  with  Pi^per 
and  Salt.  Mix  all  these  with  the  Maccaroni,  and  pot 
into  a  pudding  mould  well  buttered,  and  then  let  it  steam  in 
a  stewpan  of  boiling  water  for  about  an  hour,  and  serve  quite 
hot,  with  rich  gravy  (as  in  Omelette).     See  (No.  543*.) 

06f .— This,  we  have  been  informed,  is  considered  by  a 
Grand  Gourmand,  as  the  most  important  recipe  which  was 
added  to  the  collection  of  his  Cook  during  a  gastronomic  tour 
through  Europe :  it  is  not  an  uncommon  mode  of  preparii^ 
Maccaroni  on  the  continent. 

Omelettes,  and  various  ways  of  dressing  Eggs, — (No.  543*.) 

There  is  no  dish  which  in  this  countiy  may  be  con- 
sidered a3  coming  under  the  denomination  of  a  Made  Dish  of 
the  second  order,  which  is  so  generally  eaten,  if  good,  as  an 
Omelette ;  and  no  one  is  so  often  badly  dressed :  it  is  a  very 
faithful  assistant  in  the  construction  of  a  dinner. 

When  you  are  taken  by  surprise,  and  wish  to  make  an 
appearance  beyond  what  is  provided  for  the  every  day  dinner, 
a  little  portable  soup  melted  down,  and  some  Zest  (No.  255), 
and  a  few  Vegetables,  will  make  a  good  broth — a  pot  of  the 
stewed  veal  of  Morrison's,  warmed  up, — an  Omelette, — and 
some  Apple  or  Lemon  Fritters,  can  all  be  got  ready'  at  ten 
minutes  notice,  and  with  the  original  foundation  of  a  Leg  of 
Mutton,  or  a  piece  of  Beef,  will  make  up  a  very  good  dinner 
when  taken  by  surprise  in  the  country. 

The  great  merit  of  an  Omelette  is,  that  it  should  not  be 
greasy,  burnt,  nor  too  much  done:  if  too  much  of  the 
white  of  the  Eggs  are  left  in,  no  art  can  prevent  its  being 
hard,  if  it  is  done :  to  dress  the  Omelette,  the  fire  should  not 
be  too  hot,  as  it  is  an  object  to  have  the  whole  substance 
heated,  without  much  browning  the  outside. 

One  of  the  great  errors  in  the  cooking  an  Omelette- is  that 
it  is  too  thin,  consequently  instead  of  feeling  full  and  -moist 
in  the  mouth,  the  substance  presented  is  little  better  than  a 


OMELETTES*  397 

piece  of  fridd  leather:  to  get  the  Omelette  thick  is  erne  of 
the  great  objects.  With  respect  to  the  flavours  to  be  intro^ 
duced,  these  are  infinite :  that  which  is  most  common,  how- 
ever, is  the  best,  viz.  finely  chopped  Parsley,  and  Chives  or 
Onions,  or  EsballotS"- however,  one  made  of  a  mijttnre  of 
Tarragon,  Chervil,  and  Parsley,  is  a  very  delicate  variety; 
omitting  or  adding  the  Onion  or  Chives.  Of  the  A!leat 
flavours,  the  Veal  Kidney  is  the  most  delicate,  and  is  tlte 
most  admired  by  our  neighbours  the  French  :  this  should  be 
cut  in  dice,* and  should  be  dressed  (boiled)  before  it  is 
added;  in  the  same  manner  Ham  and  Anchovies,  shred 
small,  or  Tongue,  will  make  a  veiy  delicately  flavoured  dish. 

The  objection  to  an  Omelette  is  that  it  is  too  rich,  which 
makes  it  advisable  to  eat  but  a  small  quantity.  An  addition 
of  some  finely  mashed  Potatoes,  about  two  table-spoonsful 
to  an  Omelette  of  six  eggs,  will  much  lighten  it. 

Omelettes  are  often  served  with  rich  gravy,  but,  as  a 
general  principle,  no  substance  which  has  been  fried  should 
be  served  in  gravy,  but  accompanied  by  it : — or  what  ought 
to  eat  dry  and  crisp,  becomes  soddened  and  flat. 

In  the  compounding  the  gravy  great  care  should  be  taken 
that  the  flavour  does  not  overcome  that  of  the  Omelette,  a 
thing  too  little  attended  to ;  a  fine  gravy,  with  a  flavouring  of 
Sweet  Herbs  and  Onions^  we  think  the  best :  some  add  a  few 
drops  of  Tarragon  Vinegar ;  but  this  is  to  be  done  only  with 
great  care :  gravies  to  Omelettes  are  in  general  thickened : 
this  should  never  be  done  with  flour:  Potatoe  Starch,  or 
Arrow  Root,  is  the  best. 

Omelettes  should  be  fried  in  a  small  Fryingpan  made  for 
that  purpose,  with  a  small  quantity  of  Butter.  The  Ome- 
lette's great  merit  is  to  be  thick,  so  as  not  to  taste  of  the  out- 
side ;  therefore  use  only  half  the  number  of  whites  that  you 
do  yolks  of  Eggs :  every  care  mu§t  be  taken  in  frying,  even 
at  tne  risk  of  not  having  it  quite  set  in  the  middle :  an  Ome- 
lette, which  has  so  much  vogue  abroad,  here  is  in  general  a 
thin  doubled  up  piece  of  leather,  and  harder  than  soft  leather 
sometimes.  The  fact  is,  that  as  much  care  must  be  be- 
stowed on  the  frying,  as  should  be  taken  in  poaching  an 
Egg.  A  Salamander  is  necessary  to  those  who  will  have 
the  top  brown ;  but  the  kitchen  Shovel  may  be'  substituted 
for  it. 


996  oMKLvrrsB. 

7%«  JbttaUnng  Receq>t  is  the  hatU  of  oil  OwtdOtes,  of 
which  you  may  make  an  endless  varietv,  by  taking,  instead 
of  the  ntrsky  and  Shallot,  a  portion  of  Sweet  Her&,  or  any 
of  the  articles  enumerated  in  the  Table  of  Mitterials  used  for 
Baking  Forcemeats,  see  (No.  373) ;  or  nkv  of  the  Force* 
meatobetween  (Nos.  373 and  386.) 

Omelettes  are  called  by  the  name  of  wbat  is  added  to 
flavour  them ;— «  Ham  or  Ton^e  Omelette, — an  Anchovy, 
or  a  Veal  Kidney  Omelette,  &c« :  these  are  prepared  ei- 
actly  in  the  same  way  as  in  die  first  receipt,  l^Tinj^  out  the 
Parsley  and  Shallot,  and  mincing  the  Ham  or  Kidney  very 
.fine,  &c.  and  adding  that  in  tb^  place  of  them,  and  then 
pour  over  them  all  sorts  of  thickened  Graviev— Sauces,  ^c 

Receipt  for  the  common  Omblette. 

Five  or  six  £^  will  make  a  good  sized  Omelette :  break 
them  into  a  Basm,  and  beat  them  well  Mrith  a  iotk ;  and  add 
a  salt-spoonful  of  salt ;  have  ready  chopped  two  drachms  of 
Onion,  or  three  drachms  of  Parsley,  a  good  clove  of  Eshallot 
minced  very  fine ;  beat  it  well  up  with  the  !Eggs ;  then  take 
four  ounces  of  fresh  Butter,  and  break  half  of  it  into  little 
bits,  and  put  it  into  the  Omelette,  and  the  other  half  into  a 
very  clean  fryingpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  pour  in  the  Ome- 
lette, and  stir  it  with  a  spoon  till  it  b^ns  to  set,  then  torn  it 
up  all  round  the  edges,  and  when  it  is  of  a  nice  brown  it  is 
done : — the  safest  way  to  take  it  out,  is  to  put  a  plate  on  the 
Omelette,  and  turn  the  pan  upside  down  ;  serve  it  on.  a  hot 
dish ;  it  should  never  be  done  till  just  wanted.  If  Maigrt^ 
gratrf  Cheese,  Shrimps,  or  Oysters. — If  Oysters,  boil  them 
four  minutes,  and  take  away  the  beard  and  gristly  part :  they 
may  either  be  put  in  whole,  or  cut  in  bits. 

Or, 

Take  Eggs  ready  boiled  hard,  and  either  fry  them  whole, 
or  cut  them  in  half ;— when  they  are  boiled,  (they  will  take 
five  minutes),  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  till  you  want  to  use 
them;  then  roll  them  lightly  with  your  baud  on  a  table,  and 
they  will  peel  without  breaking;  put  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry, 
and  dredge  them  lightly  wiUi  Flour;  beat  two  Eggs  in  a 
basin,  dip  the  Eggs  in,  one  at  a  time,  and  then  roll  thmi  in 
fine  bread  crumbs,  or  in  Duck  (No.  378),  or  Veal  Stuffily 


SOGS.  399 

(No.  374)  ;  set  them  away  rsady  for  frying ;  fry  them  in  hot 
Oil  or  clarified  Butter,  serve  them  up  with  Mushroom  Sauce, 
or  any  other  thickened  Sauce  you  please :  crisp  Parsley  is  a 
pretty  garnish. 

Or, 

Do  not  boil  the  Eggs  till  wanted ;  boil  them  ten  minutes, 
peel  them  as  above^  cut  them  in  half,  put  them  on  a  dish, 
and  have  ready  a  Sauce  made  of  two  ounces  of  Butter  and 
Flour  well  rubbed  together  on  a  plate,  and  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  good  Milk ;  set  it  on 
the  fire,  and  stir  it^  till  it  boils ; — ^if  it  is  not  quite  smooth, 
strain  it  through  a  sieve,  chop  tome  Parsley  and  a  clove  of 
Eshallot  as  fine  as  possible,  and  put  in  your  Sauce:  season 
it  with  salt  to  your  taste :  a  little  Mace  and  Lemon  peel 
boiled  with  the  Sauce,  will  improve  it : — ^if  you  like  it  still 
richer,  you  may  add  a  little  Cream,  or  the  yolks  of  two  Eggs, 
beat  up  with  two  table-spoonsful  of  Milk,  and  stir  it  in  tbe 
last  thing :  do  not  let  it  boil  after  :  place  the  half  Eggs  on  a 
dish  with  the  yolks  upward,  and  pour  the  Sauce  over  them. 

N.  B.  Any  cold  fish  cut  in  pieces  may  be  warmed  in 
the  above  Sauce  for  a  sent  Dinner. 

Or, 

Slice  very  thin  two  Onions  weighing  about  two  ounces 
^ch,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  three  ounces  of  Butter, 
keep  them  covered  till  they  are  just  done,  stir  them  every 
now  and  then,  and  when  they  are  of  a  nice  Brown,  stir  in  as 
much  Flour  as  will  make  them  of  a  stiff  paste,  then  by  de- 
grees add  as  much  Water  or  Milk  as  will  make  it  the  thick- 
ness of  good  Cream  :  season  it  with  Pepper  and  Salt  to  your 
tarte  ;  have  ready  boiled  hard  four  or  five  Eggs, — ^you  may 
either  shred  them  or  cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters, — then 
put  them  in  the  Sauce :  when  they  are  hot  they  are  ready  : 
garnish  them  with  sippets  of  Bread. 

Or,  have  ready  a  plain  Omelette,  cut  into  bits,  and  put 
them  into  the  Sauce. 

Or,  cut  off  a  little  bit  of  one  end  of  the  Eg^gs,  so  that  they 
may  stand  up;  and  take  out  the  yolks  whole  of  some  of 
them,  and  cut  the  whites  in  half,  or  in  quarters. 


400  EGGS. 

Ohs. — ^This  is  called  in  the  Parisian  kitchen,  "  Eggs  d  la 
Trip;  tpitha  Roux,*^ 

Marrow  Bones — (No.  544.) 

Saw  the  Bones  even,  so  that  they  will  stand  steady ;  put 
a  piece  of  paste  into  the  ends  :  set  them  upright  in  a  Sauce- 
pan, and  boil  till  they  are  done  enough : — a  Beef  Marrow 
Bone  will  require  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours ; 
senre  fresh  toasted  Bread  with  them. 

Eggs  fried  with  Bacon, — (No.  645.) 

.  Lay  some  slices  of  fine  streaked  Bacon  (not  more  than  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick)  in  a  clean  dish,  and  toast  them  be- 
fore the  fire  in  a  Cheese«toaster,  turning  them  when  the 
upper  side  is  browned — first  ask  those  who  are  to  eat  the 
Biiaicon,  if  they  wish  it  much  or  little  done^  i.  e.  curled  and 
crisped,  see-  (No.  526), — or  mellow  and  soft  (No.  527) ; — 
if  the  latter,  parboil  it  first. 

Well  cleansedy  (see  No.  83),  Dripping^  or  Lard,  or  Fresh 
Butter  are  the  best  fats  for  frying  £^. 
.  Be  sure  the  fryingpan  is  quite  clean :  when  the  fiit  is 
hot,  break  two  or  three  E^  into  it ;  do  not  turn  them,  but, 
while  they  are  frying,  keep  pouring  some  of  the  fat  over 
them  witn  a  spoon : — when  the  Yolk  just  begins  to  look 
white,  which  it  will  in  about  a  couple  of  minutes,  they 
are  enough ; — the  white  must  n^t  lose  its  transparency ,  but 
the  Yolk  he  seen  blushing  through  it : — ^if  they  are  done 
nicely,  they  will  look  as  white  and  delicate  as  if  they  bad 
been  poached,  take  them  up  with  a  tin  slice,  di*ain  the  Fat 
from  them,  trim  them  neatly,  and  send  them  up  with  the 
Bacon  round  them. 

Ragodt  of  Eggs  and  Bacon, — (No.  545.*) 

.  Boil  half  a  dozen  Eggs  for  ten  minutes,  throw  them  into 
cold  water,  peel  them  and  cut  them  into  halves ;  pound  the 
yolks  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  about  an  equal  quantity  of 
the  white  meat  of  dressed  Fowl,  or  Veal,  a  little  chopped 
Parsley,  an  Anchovy,  an  Eshallot,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  Butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  a  little 
Cayenne,  some  Bread-crumbs,  and  a  very  little  beaten  Mace, 


EGGS.  401 

or  Allspice ;  incorporate  them  well  together,  and  fill  the 
halves  of  the  whites  with  this  mixture;  do  them  oveir  with 
the  yolk  of  an  Egg,  and  brown  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and 
serve  them  on  relishing  rashers  of  Bacon  or  Ham,  see 
(No.  527.) 

Fop  Sauce,  melted  Butter,  flavoured  to  the  fancy  of  the 
Eaters,  with  Mushroom  Caisup,  Anchovy,  Curry  Powder 
(No.  455,)  or  Zest  (No.  255.) 

To  Poach  Eggs.— (No.  546.) 

The  Cook  who  wishes  to  display  her  skill  in  Poaching, 
must  endeavour  to  procure  Eggs  that  have  been  laid  a  couple 
of  days,  those  that  are  quite  new  laid  are  so  milky  that,  take! 
all  the  care  you  can,  your  cooking  of  them  will  seldom  pro- 
cure you  the  praise  of  being  a  Prime  Poiacher ; — you  must 
have  fresh  Eggs,  or  it  is  equally  impossible. 

The  Beauty  of  a  Poached  Egg,  is  for  the  yolk  to  be  seen 
blushing  through  the  White, — which  should  only 'be  just 
sufficiently  hardened,  to  form  a  transparent  Veil  fof  the  Egg. 

Have  some  boiling  water,*  in  a  Tea  Kettle, — pass  as 
much  of  it  through  a  clean  cloth  as  will  half  till  astewpan, 
break  the  Egg  into  a  cup,  and  when  the  water  boils,  remove 
the  stewpan  i'rom  the  stove,  and  gently  slip  the  ^g  into  it ; 
it  must  stand  till  the  white  is  set ;  then  put  it  o?er  a  very 
moderate  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  boils,  the  "Egg  is 
ready;  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  and  neatly  round  on  the 
ragged  edges  of  the  white, — ^send  them  up  on  Bread  toasted 
on  one  Side  only^f  with  or  without  Butter ;  or  without  a  Toast 
garnished  with  streaked  Bacon  (Nos.  526  or  527),  nicely 
fried,  or  as  done  in  (No.  545),  or  slices  of  Broiled  Beef  or 
Mutton  (No.  487),  Anchovies  (Nos.  434  and  435),  Pork 
Sausages  (No.  87),  or  Spinage  (No.  122.) 

Obs. — The  Bread  should  be  a  little  larger  than  the  Egg, 


*  Straining  the  water  is  an  indispensable  precaution,  unless  you 
•use  Spring  water. 

t  "  A  coaple  of  poached  Eggs,  with  a  few  fine  diy  fried  ooUops  of 
pure  Bacoo,  are  not  bad  for  breakfast,  or  to  begiu  a  meal,"  says  Sir 
Kknblm  Diobt^  M.D.  in  bis  Closet  of  Cookery,  London,  1669, 
page  167. 


402  aoos. 

and  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick :  onlj  just  give  ita 
yellow  colour : — ^if  you  toast  it  brown,  it  will  get  a  bitter 
flavour  :*-or  moisten  it  by  pouring  a  little  hot  wato*  on  it; 
Bome  sprinkle  it  with  a  few  cbpops  oif  Vinegar,'*<-or  of  Esaoioe 
of  Anchovy  (No.  433). 

To  boil  Eggs  to  eat  in  the  Shell,  or  for  Salads, 

(No.  547.) 

The  fresher  laid  the  better,  put  them  into  boiling  water ; 
if  you  like  the  white  just  set,*  about  two  minutes  boiling  is 
enough,  a  new  laid  egg  will  take  a  little  more ;  if  you  wish 
the  yolk  to  be  set,  it  will  take  three, — and  to  boil  it  hard  for 
a  Salad,  ten  minutes.    See  (No.  372.)  . 

Obs, — A  new  laid  Egg  will  require  boiling  longer  than  a 
fltale  one,  by  half  a  minute. 

Tin  Machines  for  boiling  Eggs  on  the  Bredkfasl  Table,  are 
sold  by  the  Ironmongers,  which  perform  the  process  very 
regularly: — ^in  four  minutes  the  white  is  just  set. 
»  N.B.  **  Eggs  may  be  preserved  for  Twelve  Months,  in  a 
sweet  and  palatable  state  for  eating  in  the  shell,  or  using  for 
Salads,  by  boiling  them  for  one  minute ;  and  when  wanted 
for  use  l^t  tliem  be  boiled  in  the  usual  manner :  the  white 
may  be  a  little  tougher  than  a  new  laid  egg,  but  the  yolk  will 
ahow  no  difference.*'    See  Hunter's  C^ina,  page  257. 

Eggs  Poached  with  Sauce  of  minced  Ham. — (No,  548.) 

Poach  the  Eggs  as  before  directed,  and  take  two  or  three 
sliced  of  boiled  ham,  mince  it  fine  with  a  gherkin,  a  morsel 
of  onion;  a  little  parsley  and  pepper  and  salt;  stew  all 
together  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  serve  up  your  sauce  about 
half  boiling ;  put  the  eggs  in  a  dish,  squeeze  over  the  juice 
of  half  a  Seville  orange,  or  lemon,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them. 

Fried  Eggs  and  minced  Ham  or  Bacon* — (No.  549.) 
Choose  some  very  fine  bacon  streaked  with  a  good  deal  of 

,  *  **  The  lightest  mode  of  preparing  eggs  for  the  table,  is  to  boil  tfaem 
only  as  ioDg  as  is  necessary  to  coagulate  sligtitly  the  greater  part  of  the 
vrhite,  without  depriving  the  yolk  of  its  fluidity.**— Dr.  Pbarsos's 
Mat,  Alim,  8vo.  1808,  p.  36. 


SG€^8.  403 

lean  ;  cm  this  into  vety  thin  slices,  and  afterwards  into  small 
sqimre  pieces ;  throw  them  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire,  that  they  may  lose  some  of  their  fat.  When  as 
much  as  will  freely  come  is  thus  melted  from  them,  lay 
them  on  a  warm  dish.  Put  into  a  stewpan  a  ladleful  of 
melted  bacon  or  lard;  set  it  on  a  stove;  put  in  about  a 
dozen  of  the  small  pieces  of  bacon,  then  stoop  the  stewpan 
and  break  in  an  egg.  Manage  this  carefully,  and  the  egg 
will  presently  be  done :  it  will  be  very  round,  and  the  litde 
dice  of  bacon  will  stick  to  it  all  over,  so  that  it  will  make  a 
very  pretty  appearance.  Take  care  the  yolks  do  not  harden : 
when  the  egg  is  thus  done,  lay  it  carefully  in  a  warm  dish, 
and  do  the  others. 

*♦*  ^^^  rechm  685  ways  of  dressing  Eggs  tn  tke  French 
Kit^ien ; — we  hope  our  half  dozen  Receipts  give  sufficient 
variety  for  the  English  Kitchen, 

Tea*.— (No.  550.) 

«  The  Jesuk  that  came  from  China,  A.  D.  1664,  tolfl 
Mr.  Waller,  that  to  a  drachm  of  tea  they  put  a  pint  of  water. 


*  Vabiocs  Ways  of  Making  Tea. 

1. 
*'  The  Japanese  reduce  their  Tea  to  a  fine  powder  by  pounding  it,-^ 
tbe^  put  certain  portions  of  tliis  into  a  teacnp,  pour  boiling^  water  upon 
it,  aind  stir  it  up,  and  drink  it  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough.'' 

2. 

'' DiTBDiSBOK'a  Mavxkr  op  Making  Tea. 

*'  Put  the  Tea  into  a  kettle  with  cold  water,  — oover  it  dose,  set  ft 

on  the  fire,  and  make  it  all  but  boil,  when  you  see  a  sort  of  white  soum 

on  ibe  surface,  take  it  from  the  fire ;  when  the  leaves  sink  it  is  ready.*' 

3. 
*'  The  night  before  you  wish  to  have  Tea  ready  for  drinking, — ^ponr 
t>n  itBS  tmxth  cold  water  as  you  wish  to  make  Tea— next  morning  pour 
off  the  clear  liquor,  and  when  you  wish  to  drink  it,  make  it  wafm." 

The  above  are  from  '<  VArt  duLimonadier*'  de  Dubufsson,  Paris, 
p.  267  and  8.  Or, 

4thfy, 
*'  A  great  saving  may  be  made  by  making  a  Tincture  of  Tea^  thus, 
»-^our  boiling  water  upon  it,  and  let  it  stand  twenty  minutes,  puttiqg 
into  each  cup  no  more  than  is  necessary  to  fill  it  about  one-third  full 
— Fill  each  cup  up  with  hot  water  from  an  urn  or  kettle,  (bus  the  Tea 
will  be  always  hot  arid  equally  strong  to  the  end,<~and  one  tea-spoonfU 


404  COFFBB. 

and  frequently  take  the  yolks  of  two  new  laid  eggs,  and  beat 
them  up  with  as  much  fine  sugar  as  is  sufficient  for  the  tea, 
and  stir  all  well  together.  He  also  informed  him,  that  we  let 
the  hot  water  remain  too  long  soaking  upon  the  tea,  which 
makes  it  extract  into  itself  the  earthy  parts  of  the  herb ;  the 
water  must  remain  upon  it  no  longer  than  while  you  can  say 
the  *  Miserere^  psalm  very  leisurely ;  you  have  then  only  the 
spiritual  part  of  the  tea,  the  proportion  of  which  to  the  water 
must  be  about  a  drachm  to  a  pint."  Sir  Kenelm  Digbt's 
Cookery^  London,  i669,  p.  176. 

Ohi, — The  addition  of  an  Egg  makes  the  *^  Chinese 
Soup**  a  more  nutritious  and  substantial  meal  for  a  Tra- 
veller. 

a 

Coffee.* 

Coffee,  as  used  on  the  Continent,  serves  the  double  pur- 
pose of  an  agreeable  tonic,  and  an  exhilarating  bc^verage, 
without  the  unpleasant  effects  of  wine. 

Coffee,  as  drank  in  England,  debilitates  the  Stomach,  and 
produces  a  slig^ht  nausea.  In  France  and  in  Italy  it  is  made 
strong  from  the  best  Coffee,  and  is  poured  out  hot  and 
transparent. 

In  England  it  is  usually  made  from  bad  Coffee,  served 

out  tepid  and  muddy,  and  drowned  in  a  deluge  of  water, 

-and  sometimes  deserves  the  title  given  it  in  «'  the  Petition 

against  Coffee,"   4to,  1674,  p.  4,  "  a  base,  black,  thick^ 

nasty  bitter,  stinking  Puddle  Water." 

To  make  Coffee  fit  for  use,  you  must  employ  the  German 
filter, — pav  at  least  4*.  the  pound  for  it, — and  take  at  least 
an  ounce  for  two  breakfast  cups. 

No  Coffee  will  bear  drinking  with  what  is  called  milk  in 
London. 

London  people  should  either  take  their  Coffee  pure,  or 
put  a  couple  of  tea-spoonsful  of  cream  to  each  cup. 


wUl  be  found  enough  for  throe  cups  for  each  person :  according-  to  (be 
present  mode  of  making  it,  three  times  the  quantity  is  often  usfcd.''— See 
Dr.  Trdblbr's  way  to  be  Rich  and  Respectable,  8vo.  1796,  p.  ST. 

*  See  Dr.  Houghton  on  Coiiee,  in  vol.  21  of  the  Phil.  Tiuk. 
p.  311. 


N 


WDDINGS:  405 

.N.6.  The  above  is  a  contribution  ftom.  an  intelligent 
Traveller,  who  has  passed  some  years  on  the  Continent. 

Suet  Pudding y  Wiggy^s  way. -^  (No.  551.) 

Suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound ;  flour,  three  table-spoonsful ; 
eggs,  two ;  and  a  little  grated  ginger ;  milk,  half  a  pint. 
Mince  the  suet  as  fine  as  possiitle,  roll  it  with  the  rolling->pin 
so  as  to  mix  it  well  with  the  flour ;  beat  up  the  e^s*  mix 
them  with  the  milk,  and  then  mix  all  together ;  wet  your 
cloth  well  iu  boiling  water,  flour  it,  tie  it  loose,  put  into 
boiling  water,  and  boil  an  hour  aod  a  quarter* 

Mrv^  Glasse  has  ity  "  when  You  have  made  Your  toaier 
boilj  then  put  Your  pvdding  into  Your  jjot." 

Yorkshire  Pudding  under  Roast  Meat^  tlie  Gipsies*  way. 

(No.  552.) 

This  pudding  is  an  especially  excellent  accompaniment 
to  a  Sir-loin  of  Beef, — Loin  of  Veal, — or  any  fat  and  juicy 
joint.  .        . 

Six  table-spoonsful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  pint  of  milk :  so  as  to  make  a  middling  stiff  bat- 
ter, a  little  stiffer  than  you  would  for  pancakes ;  beat  it  up 
well,  and  take  care  it  is  not  lumpy;  put  a  dish  under  the 
meat,  and  let  the  drippings  drop  into  it  till  it  is  quite  hot 
and  well  greased;  then  pour  in  the  batter; — when  the 
upper  surface  is  brown  and  set,— turn  it,  that  both  sides  may 
be  brown  alike ;  if  you  wish  it  to  cut  firm,  and  the  pudding 
an  inch  thick,  it  will  take  two  hours  at  a  good  fire. 
:  N*B.  The  true  Yorkshire  Pudding  is  about  half  an  inch 
thick  when  done ;  but  it  is  the  fashion  in  London  to  make 
them  full  twice  that  thickness. 

Plum  Pudding. — (No.  553.) 

Suet  chopped  fine,  six  ounces. 

Malaga  raisins,  stoned,  six  ounces. 

Currants  nicely  washed  and  picked,  eight  ounces.    . 

Br^ad  crumbs,  three  ounces. 

Flour,'  three  ounces. 

Eggs,. three. 

Sixth  of  a  nutmeg. 


406  MY  PUDIHNQ. 

Small  blade  of  mace,  same  quaustity  of  ctnnamon,  pounded 
as  fine  as  possible. 

Half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Salt. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  rather  less. 

Sugar,  four  ounces :  to  which  may  be  added. 

Candied  lemon,  one  ounce. 

Citron,  half  an  ounce. 

Bei^  the  eggs  and  spice  well  together,  mix  the  milk  with 
tfaem  by  degrees,  then  the  rest  of  the  ingredients ;  dtp  a 
fine  close  linen  cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  put  it  in  a  hair 
sieve ;  flour  it  a  little  and  tie^it  up  close ;  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pftp  containing  six  quarts  of  boiling  water :  keep  a  ketde  of 
cx)iliog  water  alongside  of  it,  and, fill  up  your  pot  as  it 
wastes ;  be  sure  to  keep' it  boiling  six  hours  at  least. 

My  Pudding.— (No,  554.) 

Beat  up  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  Eggs,  strain  them 
throi^  a  sieve,  (fio  keep  out  the  treddles),  and  gradually 
add  to  them  about  a  quarter  pint  of  Milk, — stir  these  weU 
together, — rub  together  in  a  mortar  two  ounces  of  moist 
Su^,  and  as  much  grated  Nutm^as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence, 
-•-stir  these  into  tne  E^gs  and  Milk,— ^hen  put  in  four 
ounces  of  Flour,  and  beat  it  into  a  smooth  Batter, — >by  de- 
grees stir  into  it  seven  ounces  of  Suet  fminned  as  Jme  as 
poisiblejy  and  three  ounces  of  Bread-crumbs — mix  all 
thoroughly  together  at  least  half  an  hour  before  you  put  the 
padding  into  the  pot ;  put  it  into  an  earthenware  pudding 
inould,  that  you  have  well  buttered,  tie  a  pudding  cloth  over 
it  very  tight,  put  it  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  three 
hours. 

Put  One  Good  Plum  into  it,  and  Moost-Aye  says,  you 
may  then  tell  the  Economist  that  you  have  made  a  good 
Plum  Pudding— ^sYAoi^  Plums  :'^  this  would  be  what 
School  Boys  call  «  MUe  Stone  Pudding,'*  i.  c.  "  alfile 
between  one  Plum  and  another." 

N.B.  Half  a  pound  of  Muscatel  Kaisins  cut  in  half,  and 
added  to  the  above,  will  make  a  most  admirable  Plum 
Pudding  :  a  little  grated  Lemon  Peel  may  be  added* 

Obs* — If  the  water  ceases  to  hoily   the  Pudding  idU  be- 


pUDDiNes.  407 

come  heawj  and  be  8poikd;^f  properly  managed,  this  and 
the  following  will  be  as  fine  PndcUngii  of  the  kind  as  art  can 
produce. 

Puddings  are  best,  when  mixed  an  hour  or  two  before 
they  are  boiled, — ^the  ingredients  by  that  means  amalgamate^ 
and  the  whole  becomes  richer  and  fuller  of  flavour,  especi- 
ally if  the  various  articles  be  thoroughly  well  stirred 
together. 

A  table-spoonAil  of  Treacle  will  give  it  a  rich  brown 
colour.  See  Pudding  Sauce  (No.  269),  and  Pudding. Cateup 
(No.  446.)  : 

N.B.  This  pudding  may  be  baked  in  an  oven,  or  under 
Meat,  the  same  as  Yorkshire  Pudding  (No.  552),  make  it 
the  same,  only  add  half  a  pint  of  Milk  more,  it  should  be 
above  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in  thickness,  it  will  take  full 
two  hours, — ^it  requires  careful  watching,  for  if  the  top  gets 
burned,  an  empyreumatic  flavour  will  pervade  the  whole  of 
the  Pudding. — Or  butter  some  Tin  mince-pye  pat^-pans,  or 
Saucers,  and  fill  them  with  pudding,  and  set  them  in  a  Dutch 
Oven,  they  virill  take  about  an  hour. 

MAiGRE  Plum  Pudding, 

Simmer  half  a  pint  of  Milk  with  two  blades  of  Mace  and 
t  roll  of  Lemon  Peel  for  ten  minutes :  then  strain  it  into  a 
Basin,  set  it  away  to  get  cold— in  the  mean  time  beat  three 
£^  in  a  l^asin  with  three  ounces  of  Loaf  Sugar  and  the 
third  of  a  Nutmeg :  then  add  three  ounces  of  Flour:  beat 
it  well  together,  and  add  the  Milk  by  degrees :  then  put  in 
three  ounces  of  Fresh  Butter  broke  into  small  pieces,  and 
three  ounces  of  Bread  Crumbs,  three  ounces  of  Currants 
washed  and  picked  clean,  three  ounces  of  Raisins  stoned 
and  chopped**stir  it  all  well  together..  Butter  a  mould,  put 
it  in,  and  tie  a  cloth  tight  over  it.  Boil  it  two  hours  and  a 
half.  Serve  it  up  with  melted  Butter,  two  table-spoonsful 
of  Brandy,  and  a  little  Loaf  Sugar. 

A  Fat  Pudding. 

Break  five  Eggs  in  a  basin,  beat  them  up  with  a  tea-spoon* 
ful  of  Sugar  and  a  table-spoonful  of  Flour,  beat  it  quite 
smooth,  then  put  to  it  a  pound  of  Raisins,  and  a  pound  of 


' 


408  J>UDi)iNGS. 

$uet,  it  must  not  be  chopped  very  fine^  butter  a  mould  well^ 
put  in  the  pudding,  tie  a  cloth  over  it  tight,  and  boil  it  Five 
tiours. 
N.  B.  This  is  very  rich,  and  is  commonly  called  a  Marrow 

PCTDWNO» 

Pease  Pudding. — (No.  555.) 

Put  a  quart  of  split  pease  into  a  clean  cloth ;  do  not  tic 
them  up  too  cl6se,  but  leave  a  little  room  for  them  to  swell; 
put  them  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  slowly  till  they  are  tender : 
if  they  are  good  pease,  they  \j^ill  be  boiled  enough  in  about 
two  hours  and  a  half,  rub  them  through  a  sieve  into  a  deep 
dish,  adding*  to  them  an  egg  or  two,  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
some  pepper  and  salt ;  beat  them  well  together  for  about 
ten  minutes,  when  these  ingredients  are  well  incorporated 
together ;  then  flour  the  cloth  well,  put  the  pudding  in,  and 
tie  it  up  as  tight  as  possible,  and  boil  it  an  hour  longer.  It 
is  as  good  with  boiled  Beef  as  it  is  with  boiled  Pork ;  and 
why  not  mth  roasted  Fork  ? 

Obs. — This  is  a  very  good  accompaniment  to  cold  Pork  or 
cold  Beef* 

N.  B.  Stir  this  Pudding  into  two  quarts  of  the  liquor 
Meat  or  Poultry  has  been  boiled  in,  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  in 
five  minutes  it  will  make  excellent  Extempore  Pease  Soup, 
especially  if  the  pudding  has  been  boiled  in  the  same  pot  as 
the  Meat,  see  (No.  218,)  &c.  Season  it  with  Pea  Powder 
(No.  458.) 

Plain  Bread  Pudding. — (No.  556.) 

Make  five  ounces  of  Bread-crumbs,  put  them  in  a  basin, 
pour  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  them,  put  a 
plate  over  the  top  to  keep  in  the  steam,  let  it  stand  twenty 
minutes,  then  beat  it  up  quite  smooth  with  two  ounces  of 
sugar  and  a  salt-^spoonful  of  nutmeg.  Break  four  eggs  on  a 
plate,  leaving  out  one  white,  beat  them  well,  and  add  them  to 

*  To  increase  the  bulk  and  dimiDisb  the  expence  of  this  puddiDi:,  tfae 
economical  housekeeper  wbo  has  a  large  family  to  feed,  may  now  add 
two  pounds  of  potatoes  that  have  been  boiled  and  well  mashed.  Te 
many,  this  mixturd  is  more  agreeable  than  pease  pudding  alone.  See, 
also,  No.  !0T. 


mjDDniGS.  409 

2e  Pudding.    Stir  it  all  well  together,  and  put  it  in  a  mould 
hi  has  been  well  buttered  and  floured,  tie  a  cloth  over  it, 
and  boil  it  one  hour. 

Breid  and  Butter  Pudding. — (No.  557.) 

You  must  have  a  dish  that  .will  hold  aquart, — wash  and  pick 
two  ounces  of  currants,  strew  a  few  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
cut  about  four  layers  of  very  thin  Bread  and  Butter,  and  be- 
tween each  layer  of  Bread  and  Butter  strew  some  currants, 
then  break  four  6ggs  in  a  basin,  leaving  out  one  white,  beat 
them  well,  and  add  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  drachm  of 
nutmeg,  stir  it  well  tc^ther  with  a  pint  of  new  milk,  pour  it 
over  about  ten  minutes  before  you  put  it  in  the  oven, — ^itwill 
take  three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  bake. 

Pancakes  and^Fritters, — (No.  558.) 

Break  three  Eggs  in  a  Basin,  beat  them  up  with  a  little  nut- 
meg and  salt,  then  put  to  them  four  ounces  and  a  half  of  flour 
and  a  little  milk,  beat  it  of  a  smooth  batter,  then  add  by  de- 
grees as  much  milk  as- will  make  it  the  thickness  of  good 
cream, — the  fryingpan  roust  be  about  the  size  of  a  pudding 
plate,  and  very  clean,  or  they  will  stick,  make  it  hot,  and  to 
each  pancake  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  about  as  big  as  a  walnut ; 
when  it  is  melted,  pour  in  the  batter  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
the  pan,  make  them  the  thickness  of  half  a  crown,  fry  them 
of  a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 

The  above  will  do  for  Apple  Fritters,  by  adding  one 
spoonful  more  Flour ;  peel  your  Apples,  and  cut  them  in  thick 
slices  ;  take  out  the  core,  dip  them  in  the  batter  and  fry 
them  in  hot  lard, — ^put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  ,^-dish  them 
neatly,  and  grate  isome  loaf  sugar  over  them. 

(No.  560.) 

The  following  Receipts  are  from  Mr.  Henry  Osborne, 
Cook  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  the  late  President  of  the  Royal 
Society: — 

Soho  Square,  April  20,  1820. 

Sir— I  send  you  herewith  the  last  part  of  the  Cook's 
Oracle.  I  have  attentively  looked  over  each  receipt,  and  hope 

T 


410  PUDDXVG& 

they  are  now  correct,  and  easy  to  l)e  understood.  Kyoutbank 
any  need  further  exfilanatipn,  $ir  Joseph  has  desired  ipe 
to  wait  on  you  again.  I  also  send  the  Rec^pta  for  my 
ten  Puddings,  and  my  method  of  using  Spring  Fruit  and 
Gourds.' 

I  am,  SiBy 

Your  humble  Servant, 
Henry  OnaoRSfE^ 

Boston  Apple  Pudding. 

Peel  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  good  Apples,  take  out  the  cores, 
cut  them  small,  put  into  a  stewpan  that  will  just  hold  them, 
with  a  little  water,  a  little  cinnamon,  two  cloves,  and  tbe 
peel  of  a  lemon,  stew  over  a  slow  fire  till  quite  soft,  th^ 
sweeten  with  moist  sugar,  and  pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  add 
to  it  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  white,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  good  butter,  half  a  nutmeg,  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon ;  beat  all  well  together,  line  the 
inside  of  a  pie-dish  with  good  puff  paste,  put  in  tbe  pudding, 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Spring  Fruit  Pudding. 

Peel  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  rhubarb,  put  into 
a  stewpan  with  the  pudding,  alemOn,  a  little  cinnamon,  and 
as  much  moist  sugar  as  will  make  it  quite  sweet,  set  it  over  t 
fire,  and  reduce  it  to  a  marmalade,  pass  through  a  hair  sieve, 
and  proceed  as  directed  for  the  Boston  Pudding,  leaving  oot 
the  lemon  juice,  as  the  rhubarb  wiU  be  found  suffidestly 
acid  of  itself. 

Nottingham  Pudding* 

Peel  six  good  apples,  take  out  the  core  with  the  point  of  a 
small  knife,  or  an  apple  corer,  if  you  have  one,  but  be  sure 
to  leave  the  apples  whole,  fill  up  where  you  took  the  core  from 
with  sugar,  place  them  in  a  pie-dish,  and  pour  over  them  a 
nice  light  batter,  prepared  as  for  Batter  Pudding,  and.  bake  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Batter  Pudding. 
Take  six  ounces  of  fine  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  three  eggs, 


PUDDINGS.  411 

beat  up  well  with  a  little  milk,  added  by  degrees  till  the  batter 
is  quite  smooth,  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,  put  into  a 
biltlered  pie-dish,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  into 
a  buttered  and  floured  basin  tied  over  tight  with  a  cloth,  boU 
one  and  a  half  hour  or  two  hours. 

Newmarket  Puddhuj, 

Put  on  to  boil  a  pint  of  good  milk,  with  half  a  lemon  peel, 
a  little  cinnamon,  and  a  bay-leaf,  boil  gently  for  five  or  ten 
minutes,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  break  the  yolks  of  five  and 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  them  well,  and 
add  the  milk,  beat  all  well  together,  and  strain  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve,  or  tammis,  have  some  bread  and  bulter  cut  very 
thin,  lay  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pie-dish,  and  then  a  layer  of  cur- 
rants, and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  then  pour  the  cus- 
tard over  it,  ^d  bake  half  an  hour. 

Newcastle  or  Cabinet  Pudding. 

Butter  a  half  melon  mould,  or  quart  basin,  and  stick  all 
round  with  dried  cherries,  or  fine  misius,  and  fill  up  miix 
bread  and  butter,  &c.  as  in  the  i^bove,  and  steam  it  an  hour 
and  a  half. 

Vermicelli  Pudding,  • 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  with  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon,  sweeten 
with  loaf  sugar,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  vermicelli,  boil  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  yolks 
of  five  and  the  white  of  three  eggs,  mix  well  together,  and 
steam  it  one  hour  and  a  quarter  ;  the  same  maybe  baked  half 
an  hour. 

Bread  Pudding, 

Make  a  pint  of  Bread  crumbs,  put  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  as  much  milk  as  will  cover  them,  the  peel  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  nutmeg  grated,  a  small  piece  of  cinnamon ;  boil 
about  t^n  minutes ;  sweeten  with  powdered  loaf  sugar ;  take 
out  the  cinnamon,  and  put  in  four  eggs;  beat  all  well 
together,  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  boil  rather  more  than  an 
hour. 

T  2 


412  .PUDDINGS. 

Custard  Pudding, 

Boil  a  pint  of  Milk,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  Cream  ; 
thicken  with  flour  and  water,  made  perfectly  smooth,  till  it  is 
stiff  enough  to  bear  an  egg  on  it ;  break  in  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  sweeten  with  powdered  loaf  sugar,  grate  in  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  the  peel  of  a  lemon ;  add  half  a  glass  of  good  brandy, 
then  whip  the  whites  of  the  flye  eggs  till  quite  stiff,  and  mix 

fently  all  together ;  line  a  pie-dish  with  good  puff  paste,  and 
ake  half  an  hour, 
N.  B.  Ground  Rice,  Potatoe  Hour,  Panada,  and  all  Pud- 
dings made  from  Powders,  are,  or  may  be,  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

Boiled  Custards. 

Put  a. quart  of  new  milk  into  a  stewpan,  with  the  peel  of 
a  lemon  cut  very  thin,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  bay  or  laurd 
leaf,  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon ;  set  it  over  a  quick  Are,  but 
be  careful  it  does  not  boil  over ;  when  it  boils,,  set  it  beside 
the  fire,  and  simmer  ten  minutes  ;  break  the  yolks  of  eight, 
and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  them  well,  then 
pour  in  the  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  it  as  quick  as  pos- 
sible to  prevent  the  eggs  curdling ;  set  it  on  the  fire  again, 
and  stir  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  let  it  have  just  one 
boil ;  pass  it  through  a  tainmis,  or  fine  sieve  :  when  cold, 
add  a  little  brandy,  or  white  wine,  as  may  be  most  agreeable 
to  palate ; — serve  up  in  glasses,  or  cups. 

Custards  for  Baking  are  prepared  as  above, — passed 
through  a  fine  sieve,  put  them  into  Cups,  grate  a  little  nut- 
meg over  each, — ^bake  them  about  15  or  20  minutes. 

TO  DRESS  SPRING  FRUIT. 

Spring  Fruit  Soup. 

Peel  and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of  Rhubarb,  blanch 
it  in  water  three  or  four  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and  put 
it  into  a  stewpan  with  two  Onions  sliced,  a  Carrot,  an  ounce 
of  lean  Ham,  and  a  good  bit  of  Butter ;  let  it  stew  gently 
over  a  slow  fire  till  tender,  then  put  in  two  quarts  of  good 
Comommey  to  which  add  two  or  three  ounces  of  Bread- 


MISCELLANEOUS.'  4 1 3' 

orumbs,  boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  season- 
with  salt  and  Cayenne^  pepper,  pass  it  through  a  tammis,  and 
serve  up  with  fried  bread. 

Spring  Fruit  Pudding. 

Clean  as  above  three  or  four  dozen  sticks  of  Rhubarb,  put 
it  in  a  stewpan,  with  the  peel  of  a  Lemon,  a  bit  of  Cinna- 
mon, two  Cloves,  and  as  much  moist  sugar  as  will  sweeten 
it ;  set  it  over  a  fire,  and  reduce  it  to  a  marmalade,  p'lss  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  then  add  the  peel  of  a  Lemon,  and  half 
a  Nutmeg  grated,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  Butter  and 
the  yoli^  of  four  Eggs  and  one  White,  and  mix  all  well 
together ;  line  a  pie-dish  (that  will  just  contain  it)  with  good 
puff  paste,  put  the  mixture  in,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 

Spring  Fruit — ^a  Mock  Gooseberry  Sauce  for 

Mackarel,  &c. 

Make  a  Marmalade  of  three  dozen  sticks  of  Rhubarb,, 
sweetened  with  moist  Sugar,  pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
serve  up  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Spring  Fruit  Tart. 

-  Prepare  Rhubarb  as  above,  cut  it  into  small  pieces  into  a. 
Tart  dish,  sweeten  with  Loaf  Sugar  pounded,  cover  it  with  a 
good  short  crust  paste,  sift  a  little  Sugar  over  the  top,  and 
bake  half  an  hour  in  a  rather  hot  oven ;  serve  up  cold. 

Spring  Cream — or  Mock  Gooseberry  Fool. 

Prepare  a  Marmalade  as  directed  for  the  Pudding;  to 
which  add  a  pint  of  good  thick  Cream  ;  serve  up  in  glasses, 
or  in  a  deep  dish ; — if  wanted  in  a  shape,  dissolve  two 
ounces  of  Isinglass  in  a  little  water,  strain  it  through  a  tam- 
mis, and  when  nearly  cold  put  it  to  the  Cream,  pour  it  into 
a  Jelly  mould,  and  when  set,  turn  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve 
ap  plain. 

Spring  Fruit  Sherbet. 

Boil  six  or  eight  sticks  of  Rhubarb  (cjuite  clean)  ten 
minutes  in  a  quait  of  water,  strain  the  liquor  through  a 
tammis  into  a  jug,  with  the  peel  of  a  lemon  cut  very  thin. 


414  MI8CBLLANBOtT9. 

aDd  two  tablespoonsful  of  clarified  Soger;  let  it  stand  iffe 
(Mr  six  hours,  and  it  is  fit  to  drink. 

Gourds  (now  called  Vegetable  Marrow  J  Stewed. 

Take  off  all  the  skin  of  six  or  eight  Gourds,  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  water.  Salt,  Lemon  juice,  and  a  bk  of 
Butter,  or  ^t  Bacon,  and  let  them  stew  gently  till  quite  tender, 
and  serve  up  with  a  rich  Dutch  sauce,  or  any  other  sauce  yos 
please  that  is  piqwmte. 

Gourd' Soup 

Should  be  made  of  full  grown  Gourds,  but  not  those  that  have 
hard  skins ;  slice  three  or  four,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan, 
with  two  or  three  Onions  and  a  good  bit  of  Butter ;  set  them 
over  a  slow  fire  till  quite  tender,  (be  careiul  not  to  let  them 
burn,)  then  add  two  ounces  of  crust  of  Bread  and  two  qoarts 
of  good  CknuomnUf  season  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper, 
boil  ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  skim  off  all  the  fet, 
and  pass  it  through  a  tammis,  then  make  it  quite  hot,  and 
serve  up  with  fried  bread. 

Fried  Gourds. 

Cut  five  or  six  Gourds  in  quarters,  take  off  the  skin  and 
pulp,  stew  them  in  the  same  manner  as  for  table ;  when 
done,  drain  them  quite  dry,  beat  up  an  Egs:,  and  dip  .the 
Gourds  in  it,  and  cover  them  well  over  with  Bread-crumbs; 
make  some  Hog's-lard  hot,  and  fry  them  a  nice  light  colour, 
throw  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  serve  up  quite 
dry. 

Another  Way. 

Take  six  or  eight  small  Gourds  as  near  of  a  size  as  pos- 
sible, slice  them  with  a  Cucumber  slice,  dry  them  in  a  doth, 
and  then  fry  them  in  very  hot  lard ;  throw  over  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  serve  up  on  a  napkin.  Great  attention  i» 
requisite  to  do  these  well, — if  the  fat  is  quite  hot,  they  are 
done  in  a  minute,  and  will  soon  ^il, — if  not  hot  enoi^, 
diey  will  eat  greasy  and  tough. 

To  make  Beef,  Mutton,  or  Veal  T«a.— (No.  563.) 
Gut  >  pound  of  leaa  gravy  Meat  into  thin  slices,  pot  it 


MISCELLANEOUS.  415 

iitto^a  qtwft  and  bait  a  pint  of  cold  water,  set  it  oyer  a  very 
gentle  £re,  where  it  will  become  gradually  warm  ;  when  the 
scum  rises,  let  it ,  continue  simmering  gently  for  about  an 
boar,  then  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  or  a  napkin,  let  it 
stand  ten  minutes  to  settle,  and  then  pour  off  the  clear  Tea. 

N.  B.  An  Onion,  and  a  few  grains  of  Black  Pepper,  are 
sometimes  added. 

If  the  Meat  is  boiled  till  it  is  thoroughly  tender,  you  may 
miiMie.  it  and  pound  it  as  directed  in  (Nq<  503,)  and  make 
Potted  Beef. 

To  make  half  a  pint,  of  Beef  Tea  in  five  minutes  for  three 
halfpence,  see  (No.  252.) 

Mutton  Broth  for  the  Sick— (No.  564.) 

Have  a  pound  and  a  half  of  a  ^eck  or  Loin  of  Mutton, 
take  off  "^e  skin  and  the  fat,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  ; 
cover  it  with  cold  water,  (it  will  take  about  a  quart  to  a^ 
pound  of  meat,)  let  it  simmer  very  gently,  and  skim  it  wdll ; 
cover  it  up,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  where  it  may 
stand  gently  stewing  for  about  an  hour,  then  strain  it  off.  It. 
should  be  allowed  to  become  coH  when  all  the  greasy  pair- 
tides  vdll  float  on  the  surface,  and  becoming  hard,  can  be 
easily  taken  off,  and  the  settlings  will  remain  ait  the  bottom. 

See  also  (No.  490,)  and  (No.  252.) 

N.  B*  We  direct  the  Meat  to  be  done  no  more  than  just 
8iz£6eiently  to  be  eaten, — so  a  sick  man  may  have  plenty  of 
good  Broth  for  nothing,  as  by  this  manner  of  producing  it 
die  meat  furnishes  also  a  good  family  meal. 

Obs. — ^This  is  an  inoffensive  nourishment  for  sick  persons 
— «od  the  only  Mutton  Broth  that  should  be  given  to  con- 
valescents, whose  constitutions  require  replenishing  with  re- 
storative aliment  of  easy  digestion.  The  common  way  of 
making  it  with  Roots — Onions — Sweet  Herbs,  &c.  &c.  is  too 
strong  for  weak  Stomachs.  Plain  Broth  will  agree  with  a 
delicate  Stomach,  when  the  least  addition  of  other  ingredients 
would  immediately  offend  it. 

For  the  various  ways  of  flavouring  Broth,  see  (No.  527.) 

Few  know  how  much  good  may  be  done  by  such  Brodi, 
taken  in  sufficient  quantity  at  the  beginning  and  decline  of 
bowel  complaints  and  fevers,— -half  a  pint  taken  at  a  time. 


416  MISCBLLANfiOVS. ' 

See  the  two  last  pages  of  the  7th  Chapter  of  the  Radiments 
of  Cookery. 

Barley  JTcrfcr.— (No.  565.) 

Take  a  couple  of  oimces  of  Pearl  Barley,  ivask  it  clean 
with  cold  water,  put  it  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
let  it  boil  for  five  minutes ;  pour  off  this  water,  and  add  to  it 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water :  boil  it  to  two  pints,  and  strain  it 

The  above  is  simple  Barley  Water ; — to  a  quart  of  this  is 
frequently  added 

Two  ounces  of  Fi^,  sliced; 

The  same  of  Raisins,  stoned ; 

Half  an  ounce  of  Liquorice,  sliced  and  bruised  ; 

And  a  pint  of  water. 

Boil  til]  it  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  and  strain. 

Oks. — ^These  Drinks  are  intended  to  assuage  thirst  id 
ardent  Fevers,  and  inflammatory  disorders,  for  which  plenty 
of  mild  diluting  liquor  is  one  of  the  principal  remedies; — 
and  if  not  suggested  by  the  Medical  attendant,  is  frequently 
demanded  by  honest  Instinct,  in  terms  too  plain  to  be  mis* 
uilderstood  : — ^the  Stomach  sympathizes  wiUi  eveiv  fibre  of 
the  human  frame,  and  no  part  of  it  can  be  distressed,  without 
in  some  degree  offending  the  Stomach: — therefore  it  is  of 
the  utmost  importance  to  soothe  this  grand  Organ,  by  ren- 
dering every  thing  we  offer  to  it  as  el^nt  and  agreeable  as 
the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit  of: — the  Barley  drink  pre- 
pared according  to  the  second  receipt,  will  be  received  with 
pleasure  by  the  most  delicate  palate. 

Whey.— (No.  566.) 

Make  a  pint  of  Milk  boil, — ]^ut  to  it  a  glass  or  two  of 
white  Wine — ^put  it  on  the  fire  till  it  just  boils  again — then 
set  it  op  one  side  till  the  Curd  has  setUed — pour  off  the  clear 
Whey,  and  sweeten  it  as  you  like. 

Cyder  is  often  substituted  for  Wine,  or  half  the  quantity 
of  Vinegar  that  we  have  ordered  Wine. 

O^...When  there  is  no  fire  in  a  sick  room,  this  may  be 
put  hot  into  a  bottle — and  put  between  the  Bed  and  Mat«» 
tress— it  will  keep  warm  several  hours. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  417 

Toothachey  and  Anti-rheumatic  J&m6rofa^^W.— (No.  567.) 

In  no  branch  of  the  practice  of  Physic,  is  there  more 
Dangerous  Quackery y  than  in  the  dental  department. 

To  all  People,  the  Toothache  is  an  intolerable  Torment 
— not  even  a  Philosopher  can  endure  it  patiently — what  an 
overcoming  ^gony,  then,  must  it  be  to  a  Grand  Gourmand  ! 
— ^besides  the  mortification  of  being  deprived  of  the  means 
of  enjoying  that  consolation  which  he  looks  to  as  th^  grand 
solace  for  all  sublunary  cares. 

When  this  affliction  befalls,  him,  we  recommend  the  fol^ 
lowing  specific  for  it : — 

R.  Sal  volatile,  three  parts. 
Laudanum,  one  part. 

Mix,  and  rub  the  part  affected  frequently,  or  if  the  Tooth 
which  aches  be  hollow,  drop  some  of  this  on  a  bit  of  cotton, 
and  put  it  into  the  Tooth ; — for  a  general  Faceache,  or  sore 
Throat,  moisten  a  bit  of  flannel  with  it,  and  put  it  at  night 
to  the  part  affected. 

Stomachic  Tincture — (No.  569,) — ^is 

Peruvian  Bark,  bruised,  one  ounce  and  a  half. 

Orange  Peel,        do.      one  ounce. 

Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit,  one  pinti 

Let  these  ingredients  steep  for  ten  days,  shaking  the  bottle 
every  day— let  it  remain  quiet  two  days— and  then  decant 
the  clear  liquor. 

Dose — a  Tea-spoonful  in  a  wine-glass  of  water,  twice  a  day, 
when  you  feel  languid,  t.  e.  when  the  Stomach  is  empty, 
^bout  an  hour  before  Dinner,  and  in  the  Evenino^. 

This  agreeable  Aromatic  Tonic,  is  an  effective  help  to  Con* 
eoction,*^and  we  are  under  personal  obligations  to  it,  for  fre- 
quently restoring  our  Stomach  to  good  temper,  and  procur- 
ing us  good  Appetite  and  good  Digestion. 

in  low  nervous  affections  arising  from  a  languid  circulation 
.—and  when  the  Stomach  is  in  a  state  of  debility  from  s^e^- 
intemperance,  or  other  causes — ^this  is  a  most  acceptable  re« 
storative. 

,    N.  B.  Tea  made  with  dried  and  bruised  Seville  OranoB 
l^EEL^  in  the  same  way  as  common  Tea,  and  drank  witU 

T  5 


418  WATER  osoxi;. . 

Milk  and  Sugar,  has  been  taken  by  nervous  and  dyspeptk 
persons  with  great  benefit 

Sucking  a  bit  of  dried  Orange  Peel  about  an  hour  before 
dinner,  when  the  Stomach  is  empty,  is  very  grateful  9mA 
strengthening  to  it* 

Paregoric  Elixir. — (No.  570.) 

A  drachm  of  purified  Opium. 

Same  of  Flowers  of  Benjamin. 

Same  of  Oil  of  Aniseed. 

Camphor,  two  scruples^ 

Steep  all  in  a  pint  of  Brandy,  or  Proof  Spirit :  let  it  stand 
ten  days,  occsaionally  shaking  it  up.    Strain. 

A  tea-spoonful  in  half  a  pint  of  White  Wine  Whey  (No. 
562,)  or  Tewahdiddle  (No.  467,)  Gruel  (No.  572,)  taken  the 
last  thing  at  night,  is  an  agreeable  and  effectual  medicioe  for 
Coughs  and  Colds. 

It  is  also  excellent  for  Children  who  have  the  Hooping 
Cough,  in  doses  of  from  five  to  twenty  drops  in  a  little  water, 
or  on  a  little  bit  of  Sugar. 

Dr.  Kitchener's  Receipt  to  make  GrueL — (No.  572.) 

Ask  those  who  are  to  eat  it,  if  they  like  it  Thick  or  thin; 
if  the  latter,  mix  well  together  by  degrees,  in  a  pint  basin, 
one  table-spoonful  of  Oatmeal,  with  three  of  cold  water ; — ^if 
the  former,  use  two  spoonsful. 

Have  ready  in  a  Stewpan,  a  pint  of  boiling  water  or  mitk; 
— ^pour  this  by  degrees  to  the  Oatmeal  you  have  mixed,—* 
return  it  into  the  Stewpan, — set  it  on  the  fire, — and  let  it 
boil  for  five  minutes, — stirring  it  all  the  time  to  prevent  tb^ 
Oatmeal  from  burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  Stewpan, — skiiA 
and  strain  it  through  a  Hair  Sieve. 

2d  To  convert  this  into  Caudle, — add  a  little  Ale,-» 
Wine, — or  Brandy, — ^with  Surar, — and  if  the  Bowels  arc 
disordered,  a  little  Nutmeg  or  Gmger  grated. 

Obs, — Gruel  may  be  made  with  Broth  (No.  490,)  or  (No. 
252,)  or  (No.  564,)  instead  of  water, — (to  make  Crawdit^ 
see  (No.  205,*) — ^and  may  be  flavoured  with  Sweet  Herhis 
— Soup  Roots^  and  Savoury  Spices, — by  boiling  thm  fi)r  S 
few  minutes  in  the  water  you  are  going  to  make  the  Gruel 
wich,--«F  Zest  (No.  255,)— Pea  Powder   (No.  458,)— or 


WATER  grukl;  41  $ 


dried  lEn^— Mushroom  Catsup  (No.  409,)<— or  a  few  grains 
of  CJurry  Powder  (No.  455,)— or  Savoury  Ragout  Powder 
(No.  457^)  or  Cayenne  (No.  404,)-*or  Celery  Seed  braised, 
— Hnr  Soup  Herb  Powder  (No.  459,)  or  an  Onion  minced 
very  fine  andbruised  in  with  the  Oatmeal,— or  a  little  Escfaallot 
Wine  (No.  402),— or  Essence  of  Cekry  (No.  409),  or  (No. 
413^)— (No.  417,)— or  (No.  420,)  &c^ 

.  Plain  Gruel,  such  as  is  directed  in  the  first  part  of  thii 
Receipt,  is  one  of  the  best  Breakfasts  and  Suppers  that  we 
can  recommend  to  the  rational  Epicure— is  the  most  com- 
forting soother  of  an  irritable  Stomach  that  we  know — ^and 
psriscolarly  aoceptatte  to  it  after  a  hard  day's  work  of  In* 
tenqieiate  Feasting — when  the  addUion  of  luilf  an  ounce  of 
butter,  and  a  tea^-spoonful  of  Epsom  Salt,  will  give  it  an' 
aperient  equality,  which  will  assist  the  principal  Viscera  to  get 
nd  of  tbeir  burden. 

**  Water  Gruel'^  (says  Tryon  inbisObs.  on  Health,  16mo« 
1688,. p.  42,)  is  ''the  King  of  Spoon  Meats,''  and  **  the 
QuBSN  ofSoupgy''  and  gratifies  nature  beyond  all  others* 

In  the  «  Art  of  Thriving,"  1697,  p.  8,  are  direction 
for  preparing  Fourscore  Noble  and  wholesome  Dishes, 
upon  most  of  which  a  Man  may  live  excellent  welt  for  Tioo^ 
pence  a  day;  the  author's  Oos,  on  Water  Grud  is,  that 
«<  Essence  of  Oatmeal  "  makes  ''  a  nMe  and  exU/i- 
rating  mealf 

Dr.  Frankun*s  favourite  Breakfast  was  a  good  basin  of 
warm  Gruel,  in  which  there  was  a  small  slice  of  Butter  with 
Toasted  Bread  and  Nutmeg, — the  expense  of  this,  he 
reckoned  at  three  half-pence. 

Scotch  JBur^oo.— (No.  572*.) 

**  This  humble  dish  of  our  Northern  brethren  forms  no 
contemptible  article  of  food.  It  possesses  the  grand  qualities 
of  salubrity,  pleasantness,  and  cheapness.  It  is,  in  &ct,  a 
sort  of  Oatm^  Hasty  Pudding  without  milk,  much  used  by 
those  patterns  of  combined  industry,  frugality,  and  temper- 
ance, the  Scottish  peasantry,  manners,  £c.)  and  this,  among 
other  examples  of  the  economical  Scotch,  is  well  worthy  of 
being  occasionally  adopted  by  all  who  have  large  families 
and  small  incomes/ 


420  ANCHOVY  rOAfft. 

•  It  is  made  in  the  following  easy  and  expedition 
manner  :^* 

.  **  To  a  quart  of  Oatmeal,  add  gradually  two  quarts  of 
water,  so  that  the  whole  may  smoothly  mix :  then  stirring  it 
continually  over  the  fire,  boil  it  together  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour ;  after  which,  take  it  up,  and  stir  in  a  little  Salt  and 
Butter,  with  or  without  Pepper.  This  quantity  will  serve  a 
femily  of  five  or  six  persons  for  a  moderate  meaU*' — Oddt*s 
Famify  Receipi  Booky  p.  204. 

Anchovy  Tocwf.— (No.  573.) 

Bone  and  wash  the  anchovies,  pound  them  in  ^  mortar 
with  a  little  fresh  butter;  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
spread  them  on  a  toast,  see  (Nos.  434  and  435,)  and  (Na 
355.) 

Ohs. — ^You  may  add,  while  pounding  the  Anchovies,  a 
little  made  Mustard  and  Curry  rowder  (No.  455),  or  a  i^w 
grains  of  Cayenne,  or  a  little  Mace  or  other  spice.  It  may 
be  made  still  more  savoury,  by  frying  the  toast  in  clarifies 
butter. 

Deviled  BiscuU-^Hio.  574.) 

Is  the  above  composition,  spread  on  a  biscuit  warmed  be- 
fore the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
salt  and  savoury  Spice  (No.  457),  Zest  (No.  255],  Cony 
powder  (No.  455),  or  Cayenne  Pepper  sprinkled  over  it 

Obs. — ^This  ne  plus  ultra  of  high  spiced  relishes,  and 
(No.  538),  fi^uently  makes  its  appearance  at  a  tavern 
dinner,  when  the  votaries  of  Bacchus  are  determined  to  vie 
with  each  other  in  sacrificing  to  the  Jolly  God. 


APPENDIX: 

COMPRISING 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING 

PASTRY,   PRESERVES,   BREAD,  PUDDINGS^ 

PICKLES,  &c.  &c. 


Puff  Pflwte.— (No.  1.) 

To  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sifted  Flour  rab  gently  in 
with  the  hand  half  a  pound  of  Fresh  Butter ;  mix  up  with 
half  a  pint  of  Spring  water ;  knead  it  well,  and  set  it  by  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  roll  it  out  thin,  lay  on  it,  in  smalt 
pieces,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  more  of  Butter,  throw  on 
It  a  little  Flour,  double  it  up  in  folds,  and  roll  it  out  thii^ 
three  times,  and  set  it  by  for  about  an  hour  in  a  cold  place.  ' 

Paste  for  Meat  or  Savoury  Ptc«.-^(No.  2.) 

Sift  two  pounds  of  fine  Flour  to  one  and  a  half  of  good 
Salt  Butter,  break  it  into  small  pieces,  and  wash  it  well  ict 
cold  water;  rub  gently  together  the  Butter  and  Flour,  and 
mix  it  up  with  the  Yolk  of  three  Eggs,  beat  together  with  a 
Spoon,  and  nearly  a  pint  of  spring  water,  roll  it  out,  and 
double  it  in  folds  three  times,  and  it  is  ready. 

•Tart  Paste  for  Family  Pies. — (No.  3.) 

Rub  in  with  the  hand  half  a  pound  of  Butter  into  one 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  Flour,  mix  it  with  half  a  pint  of 
Water,  and  knead  it  well. 

Sweety  or  Short  and  Crisp  TaH  Paste, — (No.  4.) 

To  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  Flour,  add  ten  ounee? 
of  Fresh  Butter,  the  Yolks  of  two  £^  beat,  and  three  ounce» 


422  PASTRY,  &c.  [Jppendix. 

of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  mix  up  together  with  half  a  pint  of  New 
Milk,  and  knead  it  well.— See  (No.  30.) 
N.  B.  This  Crust  is  frequently  Iced. 

Raised  Pies. — (No.  5.) 

Put  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  Flour  on  the  Paste-board, — 
andput  on  the  fire,  in  a  saucepan,  three-quarters  of  a  pint 
oi  Water,  and  half  a  pound  of  good  Lard ; — ^when  the  water 
boils,  tmake  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  pour  in  the 
water  and  lard  by  degrees,  gently  mixing  the  flour  with  it 
with  a  Spoon,  and  when  it  is  well  mixed,  then  knead  it  with 
your  hands  till  it  becomes  stiff;  dredge  a  little  Flour  to  pre- 
vent its  sticking  to  the  board,  or  you  cannot  make  it  look 
smooth : — do  not  roll  it  with  the  Rolling-pin, — ^but  roU  it 
with  your  hands,  about  the  thickness  of  a  quart  pot;  cut  it 
into  six  pieces,  leaving  a  little  for  the  covers,— 'put  one  hand 
in'  ibe  middle,  and  keep  the  other  close  on  the  outside  till 
you  have  worked  it  either  in  an  oval  or  a  round  shape : — 
have  your  meat  ready  cut,  and  seasoned  with  Pepper  and 
Salt : — ^if  Pork,  cut  it  m  small  slices ;  the  Griskin  is  the  best 
for  pasties :— if  you  use  Mutton,  cut  it  in  very  neat  cutlets, 
and  put  them  in  the  Pies  as  you  make  them :  roll  out  the 
covers  with  the  Rolling-pin  just  the  size  of  the  pie,  wet  it 
round  the  edge,  put  it  on  the  pie,  and  press  it  together 
with  your  thumb  and  finger,  and  then  cut  it  all  round 
with  a  pair  of  scissors  quite  even,  and  pinch  them  inside 
and  oat,  and  bake  them  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Paste  for  Boiled  Puddings.-^{^o.  §,) 

Pick  and  chop  very  fine  half  a  pound  of  Beef  Suet,  add  to 
it  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  Flour,  did  a  little  Salt ;  mix 
it  with  half  a  pint  of  Milk  or  Water,  and  beat  it  well  with 
the  Rolling-pin  to  incorporate  the  suet  with  the  flour. 

Paste  for  stringing  TartletSy  ^c— ^(No.  7.) 

ttix  with  your  hands  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Flour,  atf 
ounce  of  fresh  Butter,  and  a  little  cold  Water;  it^  it  well 
between  the  board  and  your  hand  till  it  begins  to  string; 
cut  it  into  small  pieces,  roll  it  out  and  draw  it  into  fine 
string^,  lay  them  across  your  Tartlets  in  any  device  you 
please,  and  bake  them  immediately. 


Appendix,"]  PASTRY,  &sd. 

Paste  far  CroquanU  or  Cut  Pastry, — (No.  8.) 

To  half  a  pound  of  fine  Flour  put  a  quarter  of  a  poxmd  of 
isifted  Loaf  ougar,  mix  it  well  together  with  YoYks  of  Eggs 
till  of  a  good  stiffness. 

Venison  Pcwiy.— (No.  9.) 

Take  a  Neck,  Shoulder,  or  Breast  of  Veiiison  that  has 
.  not  hung  too  long,  hone  them,  and  trim  off  all  th^  ^in,  and 
cut  it  into  pieces  two  inches  square,  and  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  three  gills  of  Port  Wine,  two  Onions,  or  a  fe# 
Efichallots  sliced,  some  Pepper,  Salt,  three  hlades  of  Mace^ 
aboTit  a  dozen  Allspice,  and  enough  Veal  Broth  to  cover  it ; 
put  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  it  stew  till  three  parts  done : 
put  the  trimmings  into  another  saucepan,  coyer  it  with  water, 
and  set  it  on  a  fire.     Take  out  the  pieces  you  intend  &r  tbfe 
Pasty,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  little  of  their 
Liquor,  and  set  it  by  to  cool,  then  add  the  remainder  of  thb 
Liquor  to  the  Bones  'and  Trimmings,  and  boil  it  till  the 
Pasty  is  ready — then  cover  the  Pasty  with  paste  made  like 
(No.  5) :  ornament  the  top,  and  bake  it  for  two  hours  in  ^ 
slow  Oven ;  and  before  it  is  sent  to  table  pour  in  a  sauce 
made  with  the  gravy  the  venison  was  stewed  m,  strained  and 
skimmed  free  from  fat:  some  Pepper,  Salt,  half  a  ^11  of 
Port,  the  Juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  and  a  little  Flour  and  Butter 
to  thicken  it 

Mutton  or  Veal  Pie. — (No.  10.) 

Cut  into  chops,  and  trim  neatly,  and  cut  away  the  greatest 
part  of  the  fat  of  a  Loin  or  best  end  of  a  Neck  of  Mutton, 
(the  former  the  best),  season  them,  and  lay  them  in  a  pie- 
dish  with  a  little  Water  and  half  a  gill  of  Mushroom  Catsup, 
(chopped  Onion  and  Potatoes,  if  approved) ;  cover  it  with 
Paste  (No.  2),  bake  it  two  hours :  when  done  lift  up  the 
crust  from  the  dish  with  a  knife,  pour  out  all  the  gravy,  let 
it  stand,  and  skim  it  clean ;  add,  if  wanted,  some  more  sea^ 
soning ;  make  it  boil,  and  pour  it  into  the  Pie. 

Veal  Pie  may  be  made  of  the  brisket  part  of  the  bre^t ; 
but  must  be  parboiled  first. 


424  PASTKY,  &c«  iJppehdix^ 

HarePw.— (No.  11.) 

Take  the  Hare  skinned  and  washed,  cut  it  into  pieces,  aad 
parhoi]  it  for  two  minutes  to  cleanse  it,  wash  it  well,  and  put 
It  in  a  stewpot  with  six  Eschallots  chopped,  a  gill  of  Port 
Wine,  a  small  quantity  of  Thyme,  Savory,  sweet  Marjoram, 
and  Parsley,  tied  in  a  hunch,  four  Cloves,  and  half  a  dozen 
Allspice ;  cover  it  with  Veal  Broth,  and  stew  it  till  half  done ; 
pick  out  the  prime  pieces,  such  as  the  Back,  Legs,  &c.  (leav- 
ing the  remamder  to  stew  till  the  goodness  is  quite  extracted) ; 
take  the  parts  preserved  and  fill  them  into  a  dish  with  some 
water,  and  cover  it  with  Paste  as  (No.  2),  bake  it  an  hour, 
strain  the  gravy  from  the  trimmings,  thicken  it  a  little,  and 
throw  in  half  a  gill  of  Port,  the  Juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  and 
pour  it  into  the  Pie  boiling  hot : — line  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
with  Hare  Stuffing  (No,  379),  or  make  it  into  Forcemeat 
Balls. 

PiBs  *0F  Game  and  Wild  Fowl  are  made  in  like 
manner; — and  as  the  following  receipt  for  Pigeon  Pie. 

Savoury  Pies,  Pasties,  and  Patties. — (No.  12.) 

The  piquance  of  Pies  may  be  related  ad  libitum^  by 
sprinkling  the  articles  with  Zest  (No.  255),  Curry  Powder 
(No.  455),  and  see  (No.  457  and  459),  or  by  covering  the 
bottom  of  the  dish  with  any  of  the  Forcemeats  enumerated 
in  (Nos.  373  to  385),  and  making  it  into  Balls ;  lay  one  rins: 
of  uiese  and  another  of  hard  boiled  Eggs,  cut  in  halves,  round 
the  top  of  the  pie;  and  instead  of  putting  in  vrater,  put 
strong  gravy.  After  the  pies  are  baked,  pour  in  through  a 
funnd  any  of  the  various  Gravies,  Sauces,  &c. — ^IVuffles, 
Mushrooms,  Wine,  Spices,  Pickles,  &c.  are  also  added.  See 
also  (Nos.  396  to  402.) 

Mem. — ^These  are  dishes  contrived  rather  to  excite  Appe^ 
tite,'  than  to  satisfy  it.  Putting  Meat  or  Poultry  into  a  Pie  is 
certainly  the  very  worst  way  of  cooking  it : — ^it  is  often  baked 
to  rags : — and  very  rarely  indeed  does  a  Savoury  Pie  come  to 
table  that  deserves  to  be  introduced  to  the  Stomach* 

Pigeon  or  Lark  Pie. — (No.  13.) 
Truss  half  a  dozen  fine  large  Pigeons  as  for  stewing,  sea* 


son  them  with  Pepper  and  Salt :  lay  at  the  hottom  of  the  dish ' 
a.  Rump  Steak  of  aoout  a  pomid  weight,  cut  into  pieces  and 
tiimmed  neatly,  seasoned  and  beat  out  with  a  chopper ;  on 
it  lay  the  Pigeons,  the  Yolks  of  three  .Eggs  boiled  hard,  and 
a>  gill  of  Broth  or  Water,  and  over  these  a  layer  of  steaks, 
-wet  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  cover  it  over  with  Puff-paste, 
(No.  1,).  or  the  paste  as  directed  for  seasoned  Pies  (No.  2,) 
mrash  it  over  with  Yolk  of  Egg,  and  ornament  it  with  leave* 
of  paste,  and  the  feet  of  the  Pigeons ;  bake  it  an  hour  and  a 
lialf  in  a  moderate  heated  oven :  before  it  is  sent  to  table  make 
an  aperture  in  the  top,  and  pour  in  some  good  Gravy  quite 
hoc 

Gibkl  Pie.— (No.  14.) 

Clean  well,  and  half  itew  two  or  three  sets  of  Goose  Gilv 
lets ;  cut  the  Leg  in  two, — the  Wing  and  Neck  into  three,-* 
and  the  Gizzard  into  four  pieces ;  preserve  the  liquor,  and 
set  the  giblets  by  till  cold,  otherwise  the  heat  of  the  giblets 
will  spoil  the  paste  you  cover  the  pie  with: — then  sea* 
son  the  whole  with  black  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them. 
into  a  deep  dish ;  cover  it  with  paste  as  directed  (No.  2,)  rub 
it  over  with  yolk  of  Eg^,  ornament  and  bake  it  an  hour  and 
a  half  in  a  moderate  oven :  in  the  meantime  take  the  liquor 
the  giblets  were  stewed  in,  skim  it  free  from  fat,  put  it  over 
a  fire  in  a  clean  stewpan,  thicken  it  a  little  with  Flour  and 
Batter,  or  Flour  and  Water,  season  it  with  Pepper  and  Salt, 
and  the  Juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  add  a  few  drops  of  browning, 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  youtsdse  the  pie  firom 
the  oven,  poiv  some  of  tins  into  it  through  a  funnel.  Some 
lay  in  the  oottom  of  the  dish  a  moderately  thick  Rump  Steak : 
.-if  you  have  any  cold  Game  or  Poultry,  cut  it  in  pieces^ 
and  add  it  to  the  above. 

Rump  Steak  Pte.^(No.  15.) 

Cut  three  pounds  of  Rump  Steak  (that  has  been  kept  till  ten« 
der)  into  pieces  half  as  bi^  as  your  hand,  trim  off  all  the  skin, 
sinews,  and  every  part  which  has  not  indisputable  pretensions 
to  be  eaten,  and  beat  them  with  a  chopper.  Chop  very  fine 
half  a  dozeni  Escballots,  and  mix  them  with  half  an  ounce  of 
Pepper  and  Salt  mixed,  strew  some  of  the  mi^ure  at  the 


4B6'  PA&ttBY^  kc: 

bottom  of  tlie  dish,  then  a  layer  of  Steak,  then  some  more  of 
the  mixture,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  fall ;  add  half  a  gill'  of 
Mushroom  Catsup,  and  the  same  quantity  of  Gravy,  or  Ked 
Wine,  cover  it  as  in  the  preceding  receipt,  and  bake  it  two 
hours. 

N.B.  Large  Oysters,  parboiled,  bearded,  and  laid  alter- 
nately with  the  Steaks, — ^their  liquor  reduced  and  substituted 
iiotead  of  the  Catsup  and  Wine,  will  be  a  variety. 

Chicken  Pie.— (No.  16.) 

Parboil  and  then  cut  up  neatly  two  Young  Chickens— dry 
them — set  them  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes— have 
ready  some  Veal  Stuffing  or  Forcemeat  (No.  374  or  375,) 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  place  in  the  Cluckens 
upon  it,  and  with  it  some  pieces  of  dressed  Ham  ;-  cover  it 
with  Paste,  (No.  1.)  Bake  it  from  an  hoiir  and  a  half  to 
two  horns — when  sent  to  table  add  some  good  Gravy,  well 
seasoned,  and  not  too  thick. 

Duck  Pie  is  made  in  like  manner,  only  substituting  the 
Duck  stuffing  (No.  378,)  instead  of  the  Veal. 

N.  B.  The  above  may  be  put  into  a  raised  French  Crut 
(see  No.  18,)  and  Baked ;  when  done,  take  off  the  top,  and 
put  a  ragoClt  of  Sweetbread  to  the  Chicken. 

Rabbit  Pie.— (No.  17.) 

Made  in  the  same  way :  but  make  a  Forcemeat  to  oofer 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  by  pounding  a  quarter  pound  of 
boiled  Bacon  with  the  Livers  of  the  Rabbits ;  some  Pepper 
and  Salt,  some  pounded  Mace,  some  chopped  Parsley,  smd  a 
Shallot,  thoroughly  beaten  together ;  and  you  may  lay  some 
thin  slices  of  ready  dressed  Ham  or  Bacon  on  the  top  of  your 
Rabbits.  **  This  Pie  will  ask  Two  hours  baking,"  ssyu 
Mistress  Mary  Tillinghast,  in  page  29  of  her  12mo.  voL  of 
Rare  Receipts,  1678. 

Raised  French  Pic.— (No.  18.) 

Make  about  two  pounds  of  Flour  into  a  Paste,  as  directed 
(No.  5  ;)-^knead  it  well,  and  into  the  shape  of  a  Ball,— ' 
press  your  thumb  into  the  centre,  and  work  it  by  degrees  into 
wy  shape  (oval  or  round  is  the  most  general,)  till  ^boxA  five 


Appendix,^  pastrV,  &c.'  4if 

• 

inches  high, — ^put  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  fill  it  with 
coarse  Flour  or  Bran, — roll  out  a  covering  for  it  about  the 
same  thickness  as  the  sides,— cement  its  sides  with  the  Yolk 
of  Egg,— «ut  the  edges  quite  even,  and  pinch  it  round  with 
the  finger  and  thumb, — ^yolk  of  egg  it  over  with  a  Paste 
brush,  and  ornament  it  in  any  way  as  fancy  may  direct,  with' 
the  same  kind  of  paste.  Bake  it  of  a  fine  brpwn  colour,  ia 
a  slow  oven,  and  when  done,  cut  out  the  top,  remove  the 
Flour  or  Bran,  brush  it  quite  clean,  and  Bll  it  up  with  a 
Fricassee  of  Chicken,  Rabbit,  or  any  other  Enirh  most  con- 
venient.    Send  it  to  table  with  a  Napkin  under. 

Raised  Ham  Pie.— (No.  19.) 

Soak  four  or  five  hours  a  small  Ham — ^wash  and  scrape  it 
well — cut  off  the  Knuckle,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour — 
then  take  it  up  and  trim  it  very  neatly — ^take  off  the  rind  and 
put  it  into  an  oval  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  Madeira  or  Sherry, 
and  enough  Veal  stock  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stew  for  two  hours, 
or  till  three  parts  done — take  it  out  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place. 
— then  raise  a  Crust  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  large  enough 
to  receive  it — put  in  the  Ham — and  round  it  the  Veal  Force- 
mealr— K^over  and  ornament — it  will  take  about  an  hour  and 
a  half  to  hake  in  a  slow  oven  :  when  done,  take  off  the  cover 
— glaze  the  top,  and  pour  roimd  the  following  sauce,  viz.. 
Take  the  Liquor  the  Ham  was  stewed  in — skim  it  free  from 
Fat — thicken  with  a  little  Flour  and  Butter  mixed  together— 
a  few  drops  of  Browning,  and  some  Cayenne  Pepper. 

P.  S.  The  above  is,  I  think,  a  good  way  of  dressing  a 
small  Ham,  and  has  a  good  effect  cold  for  a  Supper. 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie.^  (No.  20. ) 

Take  two  pounds  of  Veal  Cutlet— cut  them  in  middling 
sized  pieces — season  with  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt ;  like-' 
wise  one  of  Raw  or  Dressed  Ham  cut  in  slices — lay  it  alter- 
nately in  the  dish,  and  put  some  Forced  or  Sausage  Meat' 
(No.  374  or  375)  at  the  top,  with  some  stewed  Button  Mush- 
rooms, and  the  yolk  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  gill  of 
water,  and  proceed  as  with  Rump  Steak  Pie. 

N.  B.  The  best  end  of  a  Neck,  is  a  fine  part  for  a  Pie,  cut 
into  chops,  smd  the  Chine  Bone  taken  away. 


42S  PASTRY,  &e«  [AppendaL 

Raised  Pork  Pic.— (No.  21 .) 

Make  a  raised  crust,  of  a  good  size,  with  paste,  as  di- 
rected (No.  5,)  about  four  inches  high, — take  the  rind  and 
Chioe  Bone  from  a  Loin  of  Pork,  cut  it  into  chops,  beat 
them  with  a  chopper,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fill  your  Pie ;  put  on  the  top  and  close  it,  and  pinch  it  round 
the  edge,  rub  it  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  it  two  hours 
with  a  paper  over  to  prevent  the  crust  from  burning.  When 
done,  pour  in  some  good  Gravy,  with  a  litde  ready  mixed 
Mustard  (if  approved.) 

N.  B.  As  the  above  is  generally  eaten  cold,  it  is  an  excel- 
lent repast  for  a  journey,  and  wiU  keep  for  several  days. 

Eel  Pie.— (No.  22.) 

Take  Eels  about  half  a  pound  each, — skin,  wash,  and 
trim  off  the  fin  with  a  pair  of  scissors,^-cut  them  into  pieces 
three  inches  long,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill 
your  dish,  leaving  out  the  Heads  and  Tails.  Add  a  gill  of 
water  or  Veal  Broth,  cover  it  with  Paste  (No.  2,)  rub  it  over 
with  a  Pftste  Brush  dipped  in  yolk  of  egg,  ornament  it  with 
some  of  the  same  paste,  bake  it  an  hour,  and  when  done, 
make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  the  following  sauce 
through  a  funnel : — ^The  trimmings  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of 
Teal  Stock,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  table-spoonful 
of  Lemon  Juice,  and  thickened  with  flour  and  wat^r,  strained 
through  a  fine  sieve — add  it  boiling  hot. 

Raised  Lamb  Ptc*.— (No.  23.) 

Bone  a  Loin  of  Lamb,  cut  into  cutlets,  trim  them  very 
nicely,  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew  or  frying  pan, 
with  an  ounce  of  Butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  Lemon  Juice, 
and  some  pepper  and  salt :  put  them  over  a  fire,  and  turn 
them  and  put  them  to  cool ;  then  raise  four  or  five  small 
Pies  with  rSiste,  as  (No.  6,)  about  the  size  of  a  Tea-cup, 
put  some  Veal  Forcemeat  at  the  bottom,  and  the  Cutlets 
upon  it ;  roll  out  the  top  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  close 
and  pinch  the  edges,  bake  them  half  an  hour,  and  when  done, 
take  off  the  top,  and  pour  in  some  Good  Brown  Sauoe. 


Appendix.]  PASTRY,  &c.  429 

Beef  ^eak  PtaH%.— .(No.  24.) 

Get  Rump  Steaks,  not  too  thick,  beat  them  with  a  chopper, 
cut  them  into  pieces  about  half  the  size  of  your  hand,  and 
trim  off  all  the  skin,  sinews,  &c. ;  have  ready  an  Onion 
peeled  and  chopped  fine,  likewise  some  Potatoes  peeled  and  cut 
into  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  rub  the  inside  of  a 
Basin  or  an  oval  plain  mould  with  Butter,  sheet  it  with  past6 
as  directed  for  Boiled  Puddings  (No.  7) ;  season  the  Steaks 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  Nutmeg ;  put  in  a  layer 
of  St^Lk,  then  another  of  Potatoes,  and  so  on  till  it  is  full, 
occasionally  throwing  in  part  of  the  chopped  Onion  ; — add 
to  it  half  a  gill  of  Mushroom  Catsup,  a  table-spoonful  of 
Lemon  Pickle,  and  half  a  gill  of  Water  or  Veal  Broth ;  roll 
out  a  top,  and  close  it  well  to  prevent  the  water  getting  in  ; 
rinse  a  clean  cloth  in  hot  water,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it, 
and  tie  up  the  Pudding,  have  ready  a  large  pot  of  water 
boiling,  put  it  in,  and  boil  it  two  hours  and  a  half,  take  it  up, 
remove  the  cloth,  turn  it  downwards  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
when  wanted  take  away  the  basin  or  mould. 

Folau  Fent.— (No.  25.) 

Roll  off  Tart  Paste  (No.  3),  till  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick :  then  with  a  Tin  Cutter  made  for  that  purpose  (about 
the  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  dish  you  intend  sending  to  table,) 
.  cut  out  the  shape,  and  lay  it  on  a  baking  plate  with  paper, 
rub  it  over  with  yolk  of  egg ;  roll  out  good  Puff  Paste  (No.  1 ) , 
an  inch  thick,  stamp  it  with  the  same  Cutter,  and  lay  it  on 
the  Tart  Paste,  then  take  a  Cutter  two  sizes  smaller,  and 
press  it  in  the  centre  nearly  through  the  Puff  Paste ; — ^rub 
the  top  with  yolk  of  Egg,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  about 
twenty  minutes,  of  a  light  brown  colour :  when  done,  take 
out  the  paste  inside  the  centre  mark,  preserving  the  top,  put 
it  on  a  dish  in  a  warm  place,  and  when  wanted,  fill  it  with  a 
White  Fricassee  of  Chicken,'  Rabbit,  Ragoiit  of  Sweetbread, 
or  any  other  Entrie  you  wish.  • 

Oyster  Patties.'— (No.  26.) 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into 
squares  with  a  knife,  sheet  eight  or  ten  Patty  Pans,  put  upon 


430  PASTRY,  &9.  [JpffiftHs. 

each  a  bit  of  bread  the  size  of  half  a  walnut ;  roll  out  another 
layer  of  paste  of  the  same  thickness,  cut  it  as  abore,  wet  the 
e<^e  of  the  bottom  paste,  and  put  on  the  top,  pare  them 
round  to  the  pan,  and  notch  them  aboirt  a  dozen  times  witk 
the  back  of  the  knife,  rub  them  lightly  with  yolk  of  egg, 
bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour :    when 
done,  take  a  thin  slice  off  the  top,  then  with  a  small  knife  or 
spoon  take  out  the  bread  and  the  inside  paste,  leaving  the 
outside  quite  entire ;  then  parboil  two  dozen  of  Large  Oys- 
ters, strain  them  from  their  liquor,  wash,  beard,  and  cot 
them  into  four,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  an  ounce  of 
Butter  rolled  in  Flour,  half  a  gill  of  good  Cream,  a  little 
grated  Lemon  Peel,  the  Oyster  Liquor,  free  from  sedimenf, 
reduced  by  boiling  to  one  half,  some  Cayenne  Pepper,  Salt, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  Lemon  Juice ;  stir  it  over  a  fire  five 
minutes,  and  fill  the  Patties. 

Lobster  Patties.— {^o.  27.) 

Prepare  the  Patties  as  in  the  last  receipt  Take  a  Hen 
Lobster  already  boiled — ^pick  the  meat  from  the  Tail  aiiid 
Claws,  and  chop  it  fine ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little 
ol'  the  inside  spawn  pounded  in  a  mortar  till  quite  smooth, 
with  an  ounce  of  fresh  Butter,  half  a  gill  of  Cream,  and  half 
a  gill  of  Veal  Consomme,  Cayenne  Pepper,  and  Salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Essence  of  Anchovy,  the  same  of  Lemon  Juice, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  Flour  and  water,  and  stew  it  five 
minutes. 

VecU  and  Ham  Patties.— {^o.  28.) 

Chop  about  six  ounces  of  ready  dressed  lean  Veal,  aad 
three  ounces  of  Ham  very  small, — ^put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
an  ounce  of  Butter  rolled  in  fiour,  half  a  gill  of  Cream,  half 
a  gill  of  Veal  Stock,  a  little  grated  Nutm^  and  Lemon  Peel, 
some  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Salt,  a  spoonful  of  Essence  of 
Ham  and  Lemon  Juice,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  some  time, 
taking  care  it  does  not  bum.  ' 

Chicken  and  Ham  Patties. — (No.  29.) 

Use  the  White  Meat  from  the  Breast  of  Chickens  or  Fowls, 
and  proceed  as  in  the  last  Receipt. 


Appendix.']  PASTRYy  &c.  431 

Ripe  Fruit  Tarfe.— (No.  30.) 

GooseberrieSy  Damsonsy  Mgrrello  Cherries,  Cmrrants, 
inixed  with  Raspberries,  Plums,  Green  Gages,  White  Plunks, 
&c.  should  be  quite  fresh,  picked,  and  washed.  Lay  them 
in  the  dish  with  the  centre  highest,  and  about  a  quarter  of- a 
poimd  of  Moist  or  Loaf  Sugar  pounded  to  a  quart  of  fruit 
(but  if  quite  ripe  they  will  not  require  so  much) ;  add  a 
little  water — ^rub  the  edges  of  the  disn  with  yolk  of  Egg — 
cover  it  with  Tart  Paste  (No.  4),  about  half  an  inch  thickT- 
press  your  thumb  round  the  rim,  and  close  it  well ; — ^pare  it 
round  with  a  knife,  make  a  hole  in  the  sides  below  the  rim, 
-^ake  it  in  a  moderate  heated  oven;  and  ten  minutes 
before  it  is  done,  take  it  out  and  ice  it,  and  return  it  to  the 
oven  to  dry. 

Icing  for  Fruit  Tarts^  Puffs,  or  Pastry. — (No,  31.) 

Beat  up  in  a  half  pint  mug  the  White  of  two  Eggs  to  a 
solid  froth ; — lay  some  on  the  middle  of  the  Pie  with  a 
paste  brush,— "sift  over  plenty  of  pounded  Sugar,  and  press  it 
down  with  the  hand, — wash  out  the  brush,  and  splash  by 
degrees  with  water  till  the  Sugar  is  dissolved, — and  put  it  in 
tbe  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  it  up  cold. 

j^pple  Pic.-^(No.  32.) 

Take  eight  Russetings,  or  Lemon  Pippin  App}es^ — ^pare, 
core,  and  cut  not  smaller  than  quarters ;  place  them  as  close 
as  possible  together  into  a  pie^dish,  with  four  Cloves ;  rub  to- 
gether in  a  mortar  some  Lemon  Peel,  with  four  ounces  of  good 
Moist  Sugar,  and,  if  agreeeable,  add  some  Quince  Jam,T— 
cover  it  with  Puff  Paste-— :bake  it  dn  hour  and  a  quarter. 
(Generally  eaten  warm.) 

Apple  Tart  CreamecZ.— (No.  33.) 

Use  green  Codlings  in  preference  to  any  other  Apple,  and 
proceect  as  in  the  last  Receipt.  When  the  pie  is  done,  cut 
out  the  whole  of  the  centre,  leaving  the  edges ;  when  cold, 
pour  on  the  Apple  some  rich  boiled  Custard,  and  place  round 
It  some  small  leaves  of  puff  paste  of  a  light  colour. 


432  .iPASTRY,  te«  ^  [Appendix* 

TairtleUy  swih  as  are  made  ai  the  Pastry  Cooks. — (No.  34.) 

Roll  out  PuffPaste  (No.  1).  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
cut  it  into  piec^9  and  sheet  pans  about  the  size  of  a  Crom 
piece^  pare  them  round  with  a  knife,  and  put  a  small  quac- 
tity  of  Apricot,  —  Damson, — Raspberry,  —  Strawbeny,— 
Apple, — ^Marmalade, — or  auy  other  kind  of  Jam  (No.  92),  in 
the  centre ;  take  Paste  (No.  7),  and  string  them  crossways, 
bake  them  from  six  to  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven :  tliey 
should  be  of  a  very  light  brown  colour^ 

French  Tart  of  Preserved  frutl.— (No.  35.) 

Ck)ver  a  Flat  Dish  or  Tourte  Pan  with  Tart  Paste  (No,  4), 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  roll  out  puff  paste  (No.  Ij, 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  out  in  strips  an  inch  wide,  wet  the 
Tart  Paste,  and  lay  it  neatly  round  the  pan  by  way  of  a  rim; 
fill  the  centre  with  Jam  or  Marmalade  of  any  kind,  ornament 
it  with  small  leaves  of  Puff  Paste,  bake  it  half  an  hour,  and 
send  it  to  table  cold. 

N.B.  The  above  may  be  filled  before  the  PuffP^eis 
laid  on,  neatly  strung  with  Paste  as  (No.  7),  and  the  rim  put 
oyer  after. 

Obs. — The  most  general  way  of  sending  Tourtes  to  table, 
is  with  a  Croquante  of  Paste  (No.  86),  or  a  Caramel  of 
spun  Sugar  (No.  85),  put  over  after  it  is  baked. 

Smcdl  Puffs  of  Preserved  Fm(.— (No.  36.) 

Roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  good  puff  Paste  (No.  1), 
and  cut  it  into  pieces  four  inches  square,  lay  a  small  quantitjf 
of  any  kind  ot  Jam  on  each — double  them  over,  and  c«t 
them  into  square,  triangle,  or  with  a  tin  cutter,  half  moons- 
lay  them  with  paper  on  a  baking  plate -^ice  them  as  at  (Na 
31) — ^bake  them  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  not  to 
colour  the  icing. 

Cranberry  Tart.— (No.  37.) 

Take  Swedish,  American,  or  Russian  Cranberries,  pick 
and  wash  them  in  several  waters,  put  them  into  a  dish,  with 
the  juice  of  half  a  Lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Moi^  or 


^ppendw.}  FASTRT,  &c.  433 

pounded  Loaf  Sugar,  to  a  quart  of  Cranberries.  Cover  it 
with  Puff  (No.  1)  or  Tart  Paste  (No.  4),  and  bake  it  three 
quarters  of  an  hour ;  if  Tart  Paste  is  used,  draw  it  from  the 
oyen  five  minutes  before  it  is  done»  and  ice  it  as  (No.  31), 
return  it  to  the  oven,  and  send  it  to  table  cc4d. 

Mince  Pte*.— (No.  38.) 

Sheet  with  Tart  Paste  (No.  4,)  half  a  dozen  of  tin  pans  of 
any  size  you  please — ^fill  them  with  Mince  Meat  (No.  39) » 
and  cover  witn  Puff  Paste,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,— tritn 
round  the  edges  with  a  knife,  make  an  aperture  at  the  top 
with  a  fork,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  heated  oven,  and  send 
them  to  table  hot,  first  removing  the  tin.  ' 

N.  B.  Some  throw  a  little  sifted  Loaf  Sugar  over* 

Mince  Mcaf.— (No.  39.) 

Two  pounds  of  Beef  Suet,  picked  and  chopped  fine ;  two 
i)ounds  of  Apple,  pared,  cored,  and  ditto ;  three  pounds  of 
Currants,  washed  and  picked ;  one  pound  of  Raisins  stoned 
and  chopped  fine ;  one  pound  of  good  Moist  Sugar  ;  half  a 
pound  of  Citron,  cut  into  thin  slices ;  one  pound  of  Candied 
Lemon  and  Orange  Peel,  cut  as  ditto ;  two  pounds  of  ready 
dressed  Roast  Beef,  free  from  skin  and  gristle,  and  chopped 
fine;  two  Nutmegs,  grated;  one  ounce  of  Salt;  one  of 
ground  Ginger ;  Imlf  an  ounce  of  Coriander  Seeds ;  half  an 
ounce  of  Allspice ;  half  an  ounce  of  Cloves ;  all  ground  fine : 
the  juice  of  six  Lemons,  and  their  rinds  grated :  half  a  pint 
of  Brandy,  and  a  piht  of  sweet  Wine.  Mix  the  Suet,  Apple, 
Currants,  Meat,  Plums,  and  Sweetmeats  well  together  in  a 
laige  pan,  and  strew  in  the  Spice  by  deffrees :  mix  the  Sugar, 
Lemon  Juicef  Wine,  and  Brandy,  and  pour  it  to  the  other 
ingredients,  and  stir  it  well  together — ^set  it  by  in  close 
covered  pans  in  li  cold  place :  when  wanted,  stir  it  up  from 
the  bottom,  and  add  half  a  glass  of  Brandy  to  the  quantity 
you  want. 

N.B.  The  same  weight  of  Tripe  is  frequently  substituted 
for  the  Meat,  and  sometimes  the  yolks  of  Eggs  boiled  hard. 

Obs. — The  lean  side  of  a  Buttock,  thoroughly  roasted,  is 
generally  chosen  fcR*  Mince  Meat. 

u 


434  PASTBV,  &c.  [Jppendix. 

Cheesecakes, — (No.  40.) 

Put  two  quarts  of  New  Milk  into  a  stewpan,  set  it  near  tbe 
fire,  and  stir  in  two  table-spoonsful  of  rennet :  let  it  stand  till 
it  is  set.  This  will  take  about  an  hour ;  break  it  well  with 
your  hand,  and  let  it  remain  half  an  hour  longer,  then  pour 
off  the  whey,  and  put  the  curd  into  a  cullender  to  drain ; 
when  quite  dry — put  it  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  it  quite 
gmooth,  then  add  four  ounces  of  Sugar,  pounded  and  sifted ; 
and  three  ounces  of  fresh  Butter,  oil  it  first  by  putting  it  in  a 
little  potting  pot,  and  setting  it  near  the  fire  ;  stir  it  all  well 
together  :  beat  the  yolks  of  four  E^gs  in  a  basin,  with  a  little 
Nutmeg  grated,  Lemon  Peel,  and  a  glass  of  Brandy :  add 
this  to  the  curd,  with  two  ounces  of  Currants,  washed  and 
picked — stir  it  all  well  together — have  your  tins  ready  lined 
with  Puff  Paste  (No.  1),  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
notch  them  all  round  the  edge,  and  fill  each  with  the  curd. 
Bake  them  twenty  minutes. 

When  you  have  company,  and  want  a  variety,  you  caa. 
make  a  Mould  of  Curd  and  Cream,  by  putting  the  curd  in 
a  Mould  full  of  holes,  instead  of  the  cullender ;  let  it  stand 
for  six  hours,  then  turn  it  out  very  carefully  on  a  dish,  and 
pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  good  Cream  sweetened  with  Loaf 
Sugar — and  a  little  Nutmeg.  What  there  is  left,  if  set  in  a 
cool  place,  will  make  excellent  cheesecakes  the  next  day. 

Lemon  Cheesecakes. — (No.  41.) 

Grate  the  rind  of  three,  and  take  the  juice  of  two  Lemons, 
and  mix  them  with  three  Sponge  Biscuits,  six  ounces  of 
Fresh  Butter,  four  ounces  of  sifted  Suojar,  a  little  grated  Nut- 
meg, and  pounded  Cinnamon,  half  a  gill  of  Cream,  and  three 
Eggs  well  beaten,  work  them  with  the  hand,^and  fill  the  pans, 
which  must  be  sheeted  as  in  the  last  receipt  with  Puff  Paste, 
and  lay  two  or  three  slices  of  Candied  Lemon  Peel,  cut  tlun, 
upon  the  top. 

Orange  Cheesecakes, — (No.  42.)   . 

To  be  made  in  the  same  way,  omitting  the  Lemons,  and 
lifting  Oranges  instead. 


JippendixJ]  pastry,  &c.  435 

Almond  Cheesecakes,^(^o,  43.) 

Blanch  six  ounces  of  Sweet  and  half  an  ounce  of  Bitter 
Almonds ;  let  them  lie  half  an  hour  in  a  drying  stove,  or 
before  the  fire ;  pound  them  very  finie  in  a  mortar,  with  two 
table-spoonsful  of  Rose  or  Orange  Flower  Water,  to  prevent 
them  from  oiling ;  put  into  a  stewpan  half  a  pound  of  Fresh 
Butter,  put  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  cream  it  very  smooth 
with  the  hand,  and  add  it  to  the  Almonds,  with  six  ounces, 
of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  a  little  grated  Lemon  Peel,  some  good 
Cream,  ibur  Eggs,  rub  all  well  together  with  the  pestle ; 
cover  a  patty  pan  with  Puff  Paste,  fill  in  the  mixture,  orna- 
ment it  with  slices  of  Candied  Lemon  Peel  and  Almonds  split, 
and  bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Mille  FeiiilkSf  or  a  Pyramid  of  Paste. — (No.  44.) 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  (No.  1),  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  out 
with  a  cutter  made  for  the  purpose,  in  the.  shape  of  an  oval, 
octagon,  square,  diamond,  or  any  other  form,  (and  to  be  got 
of  most  tinmen),  observing  to  let  the  first  piece  be  as  large 
as  the  bottom  of  the  dish  you  intend  sending  it  to  table  on ; 
the  second  piece  a  size  smaller,  and  so  on  in  proportion,  till 
the  last  is  about  the  size  of  a  shilling ;  lay  them  with  paper 
on  a  baking  plate,  yolk  of  e^  the  top,  and  bake  them  of  a. 
light  brown  colour ;  take  them  from  the  paper,  and  when 
cold,  put  the  largest  size  in  the  dish,  then  a  layer  of  Apricot 
Jam ;  then  the  next  size,  a  layer  of  Raspberry  Jam,  and  so 
on,  varying  the  Jam  between  each  layer  of  Paste  to  the  top, 
on  which  place  a  bunch  of  dried  fruit,  and  spin  a  Caramel 
(No.  85)  of  Sugar  over  it. 

Brunswick  Tourte, — (No.  45.), 

Make  a  crust  as  for  Vol  au  Vent  (No.  25),  pare  and  core 
with  a  scoop,  eight  or  ten  Golden  Pippins,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  with  a  gill  of  Sweet  Wine,  and  four  ounces  of 
sifted  Loaf  Su^ar,  a  bit  of  Lemon  Peel,  a  small  stick  of  Cin- 
Bamon,  and  ^  blade  of  Mace,  stew  them  over  a  slow  fire  till 
the  Apples  are  tender ;  set  them  by ;  when  cold,  place  them 
in  the  Paste,  and  pour  round  them  some  good  Custard 
(No.  53.) 

u  2 


436  ?A9TBY,  &c.  [Appmdix. 

Blancmange. — (No.  46.) 

Boil  a  few  minutes  a  pint  and  a  half  of  New  Milk,  with  an 
ounce  of  picked  Isinglass  (if  in  summer  one  ounce  and  a 

Quarter),  the  rind  of  ^f  a  Lemon  peeled  very  thin,  a  little 
linnamon,  and  a  blade  of  Mace,  and  two  and  a  half  ounces 
of  Lump  Sugar ;  blanch  and  pound  eisht  or  ten  Bitter  and 
"Half  an  ounce  of  Sweet  Almonds  very  fine,  with  a  spoonful 
of  Rose  Water,  and  mix  them  with  the  Milk,  strain  it 
thi^ugh  a  lawn  sieve  or  napkin  into  a  basin,  -with  half  a  pint 
of  good  Cream.  Let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  pour  it  into 
another  basin,  leaving  the  sediment  at  the  bottom,  abd  when 
nearly  cold  fill  it  into  moulds :  when  wanted,  put  your  finger 
round  the  mould,  puU  out  the  blancmange,  set  it  in  the  centre 
of  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  Orange. 

N.  B.  About  half  a  gill  of  Noyeau  may  be  substituted  for 
the  Almonds. 

Orange  Jelly. — (No.  47.) 

Boil  ia  a  pint  of  Water  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  picked 
Isinglass,  the  rind  of  an  Orange  cut  thin,  a  stick  of  Cinna- 
mon, a  few  Corianders,  and  three  ounces  of  Loaf  Sugar,  till 
the  Isinglass  is  dissolved,  then  squeeze  two  Seville  Oranges 
or  Lemons,  and  enough  China  Oranges  to  make  a  pint  of 
juice :  mix  all  together,  and  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or 
lawn  sieve  into  a  basin ;  set  it  in  a  cold  place  for  half  an 
hour,  pour  it  into  another  basin  free  from  sediment— and 
when  it  begins  to  congeal,  fiU  your  mould ;  when  wanted, 
dip  the  mould  into  Idcewarm  water,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish, 
and  garnish  with  Orange  or  Lemon  cut  in  slices,  and  [daoed 
round. 

N.  B.  A  few  grains  of  Saffron  put  in  the  water  will  add 
much  to  its  appearance. 

Italian  Cream. — (No.  48.) 

Rub  on  a  lump  of  Sugar  the  rind  of  a  Lemon,  and  scrape 
it  off  with  a  knife  into  a  deep  dish,  or  china  bowl,  aiid  add 
half  a  gill  of  Brandy,  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  sifted  Sugar, 
the  juice  of  a  Lemon,  and  a  pint  of  Double  Cream,  and  beat 
it  up  well  with  a  clean  whisk^^in  the  meantime,  boil  an 
ounce  of  Isinglass  in  a  gill  of  Water  till  quite  dissolved. 


Appeiidk.}  PAfeTftV,  &c«  437 

Marain  it  lb  the  e^r  ingriBdi^ntk,  bedt  it  some  time,  and  fill 
your  mould^  and  when  cold  lind  set  well,  dish  it  as  in  the 
foregoing  receipt 

N.  B.  The  above  may  be  flavoured  with  any  kind  of 
fiqueur,  Raspberry,  Strawberry,  or  other  fruits,  coloured 
widi  prepared  Cochineal,  and  named  to  correspond  with  the 
&iVont  given* 

Tri^e.— (No.  49.) 

Mix  in  a  lafg«  bowl  ^  quarter  of  h  potand  Of  ^fted  St^ar, 
the  jtiace  of  a  LemoD,  some  of  the  peel  grated  fine,  half  a 
gill  of  ftrandy,  and  <titto  of  Lisbon  or  Sweet  Wine,  ahd  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  good  Cream;  whisk  the  whde  wdl,  and 
take  off  the  froth  as  it  rises  with  a  skimtni^,  and  put  it  on  a 
sieve,  continue  to  whisk  it  till  you  have  enough  of  the  whip, 
set  it  in  a  cold  place  to  drain  three  or  four  hours;  then  lay 
in  a  deep  dish  six  or  eight  Sponge  Biscuits,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  Ratafia,  two  ounces  of  Jordan  Almonds,  blanched 
Imd  split,  some  grated  Nutmeg  and  Lemon  Peel,  Currant 
Jelly  and  Raspberry  Jam,  half  a  pint  of  Sweet  Wine,  and  a 
little  Brandy;  when  the  cakes  have  absorbed  the  liquor^ 
ponr  over  about  a  pint  of  Custard,  made  rather  thicker  than 
lor  Apple  Ke — ana,  when  wanted,  lay  on  lightly  plenty  of 
the  wnip,  and  throw  over  a  few  Nonpareil  Comfits. 

Whip  SyZ/a6tt6.— (No.  50.). 

Make  a  whip  as  in  the  last  receipt;  mix  with  a  pint  of 
Cream  half  a  pint  of  Sweet  Wine«  a  glass  of  Brandvy  the 
juice  of  a  Lemon,  grated  Nutme^^  six  ounces  of  sifted  Loaf 
Sagar;  nearly  fill  tne  custard  gmases  with  the  mixture,  and 
lay  on  with  a  spoon  some  of  the  whip. 

Chaniiaff  fiGtfJfcer.->-*(No.  51.) 

Dip  into  Sugar  boiled  to  a  caramel  (see  No.  85),  small 
Ratafias,  stick  them  on  a  dish  in  what  form  you  jplease,  then 
take  Ratafias  one  size  larger,  and  having  •dipped  them  into 
the  Sugar,  build  liiem  together  till  about  four  or  five  inches 
high ;  majce  a  rim  of  York  Drops  or  Drageas  of  Gum  Paste, 
likewise  a  handle  of  Sugar  or  Ratafia,  and  set  it  over  the 
basket;  line  the  inside  with  wtifer  paper^,  tmd  a  short  time 


438  PASTRY,  &c.  lAppindk, 

before  it  is  wanted,  fill  it  with  a  mixture  the  same  as  lor 
Trifle,  and  upon  that  pknty  of  good  Whip. 

Baked  CiMtarA— (No.  52.) 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  Milk  a  few  Coriander  Seeds,  a  littk 
Cinnamon,  and  Lemon  Peel,  sweeten  with  four  ounces  of 
Loaf  Sugar,  and  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  cold  Milk,  beat  well 
eight  £^  for  ten  minutes,  and  add  the  other  ingredients, 
pour  it  from  one  pan  into  another  six  or  eight  times,  strain 
It  through  a  sieve,  let  it  stand  some  time,  skim  off  the  froth 
from  the  top,  fill  it  in  earthen  cups,  and  bake  them  imme- 
diately in  a  hot  oven  to  give  them  a  good  colour ;  about  ten 
minutes  will  do  them. 

Boiled  Ci«tor(f.— (No.  53.) 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  Milk,  five  minutes.  Lemon  Peel,  Corian- 
ders,  and  Cinnamon,  a  small  quantity  of  each,  half  a  dozen 
of  Bitter  Almonds,  blanched  and  pounded ;  and  four  ounces 
of  Loaf  Sugar:  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  Cream,  the  yolks  of  ten 
Eggs,  and  the  whites  of  six,  well  beaten,  pass  it  through  a 
hair  sieve,  stir  it  with  a  whisk  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  begins 
to  thicken,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  continue  to  stir  it 
till  nearly  cold,  add  two  table-spoonsful  of  Brandy,  fill  the 
cups  or  glasses,  and  grate  Nutmeg  over. 

Almond  Custards. — (No.  54.) 

Blanch  and  pound  fine,  with  half  a  gill  of  Rose  Water, 
six  ounces  of  Sweet  and  half  an  ounce  of  Bitter  Almonds, 
boil  a  pint  of  Milk  as  (No.  52),  sweeten  it  with  two  ounces 
and  a  half  of  Sugar,  rub  the  Almonds  through  a  fine  sieve, 
with  a  pint  of  Cream,  strain  the  Milk  to  the  yolks  of  eight 
Eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three  well  beaten, — stir  it  over  a  fire 
till  it  is  of  a  good  thickness,  take  it  o6f  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till 
nearly  cold,  to  prevent  it  curdling. 

N.  B.  The  above  may  be  baked  in  cups,  or  in  a  didi, 
with  a  rim  of  puff  paste  put  round. 

Twelfth  CbAc.— (No.  55.) 

Two  pounds  of  sifted  Flour,  two  pounds  of  sifled  Loaf 
Sugar,  two  pounds  of  Butter,  eighteen  Eggs,  four  pounds  of 
Currants,  one  half  pound  of  Almonds,  blanched  and  chopped. 


r 


Jppendvc.'\  pastry,  &c.  439 

one  half  pound  Citron,  one  pound  of  Candied  Orange  and 
I^mon  Peel,  cut  into  thin  slices,  a  large  Nutmeg  grated, 
half  an  ounce  ground  Allspice:  ground  Cijinamon,  Mace, 
Ginger,"  and  Corianders,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each,  and 
a  gUr  of  Brandy. 

Put  the  Butter  into  a  stewpan,  in  a  warm  place,  and  work 
it  into  a  smooth  cream  with  the  hand,  and  mix  it  with,tbe 
Sugar  and  Spice  in  a  pan  (or  on  your  paste' hoard)  for  some 
time ;  then  hreak  in  tlie  Eg^  hy  degrees,  and  heat  it  at  least 
twenty  minutes ; — stir  in  the  Brandy,  and  then  the  Flour, 
and  work  it  a  little — add  the  Fruit,  Sweetmeats,  and  Al- 
monds, and  mix  all  together  lightly, — have  ready  a  hoop 
cased  with  paper,  on  a  haking  plate, — ^put  in  the  mixture, 
smooth  it  on  the  top  with  your  hand— dipped  milk — put 
the  plate  on  another,  with  sawdust  between,  to  prevent  the 
bottom  from  colouring  too  much, — ^bake  it  in  a  slow  oven* 
four  hours  or  more,  and  when  nearly  cold,  ice  it  with 
(No.  84.) 


^  *  The  goodness  of  a  Cake  or  Biscuit  depends  much  on  its  being  well 
^aked ;  great  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  different  degrees  of  beat 
of  the  oven — be  sure  to  have  it  of  a  good  sound  heat  at  first,  when,  after 
its  being  well  cleaned  out,  may  be  baked  such  articles  as  require  a  hot 
oven,  after  which  such  as  are  directed  to  be  baked  in  a  well -heated  or 
moderate  oven,  and  lastly,  those  in  a  slow  soaking  or  cool  one.  With 
a  little  care  the  above  degrees  may  soon  be  known. 

In  making  Butter  Cakes,  such  as  (Nos.  55,  57,  or  0],)  too  much  at- 
'tentioD  cannot  be  paid  to  have  the  Butter  well  creamed,  for  should  it 
be  made  too  warm,  it  would  cause  the  mixture  to  be  the  same,  and 
when  put  to  bake,  the  Fruit,  Sweetmeats,  <fec.,  would  in  that  event  fall 
to  the  bottom. 

Yeast  Cakes  should  be  well  proved  before  put  into  the  oven,  as  they  will 
prove  but  little  afterwards. 

In  making  Biscuits  and  Cakes  where  Butter  is  not  used,  tbedilTerent 
utensils  should  be  kept  free  from  all  kinds  of  Grease,  or  it  is  next  to  im-* 
jNjssible  to  have  good  ones. 

In  buttering  the  insides  of  Cake  moulds,  the  butter  should  be  nicely 
clarified,  and  when  nearly  cold,  laid  on  quite  smooth,  with  a  small 
brush  kept  for  that  purpose. 

Sugar  and  Floar  Should  be  quite  drv»  and  a  drum  sieve  is  recommended 
ifor  the  Sugar.  The  old  way  of  beating  the  yolks  and  whites  of  Eggs 
separate  (except  in  very  few  cases,)  is  not  only  useless,  but  a  waste  of 
tiine.  They  should  be  well  incorporated  with  the  other  ingredients,  and 
in  some  instances  they  cannot  be  beat  too  much. 


440  PASTRY,  &C.  lAppenikf 

This  mixture  would  make  a  haodsome  eaice,  full  twelve 
or»fourteen  inches  over. 

Obs. — ^If  made  in  cold  weather,  the  ^gs  should  be  broke 
into  a  pan,  and  set  into  another  filled  with  hot  water;  like* 
wise  the  fruit,  sweetmeats,  Almonds,  laid  in  a  warm  place, 
otherwise  it  may  chill  the  butter,  and  cause  the  cake  to  be 
heavy. 

Bride  or  Weddtjig  CaAc— (No,  56.) 

The  only  difference  usually  made  in  these  Cakes  is,  the 
addition  of  one  pound  of  Raisms,  stoned  and  mixed  with  the 
other  fruit. 

Plain  Pound  Cake. — (No.  57.) 

Cream  as  in  (No.  55,)  one  pound  of  Butter,  and  wcffk  it 
well  together  with  one  pound  of  sifted  Sugar,  till  quite  smooth ; 
beat  up  nine  £g^,  and  put  them  by  degrees  to  the  butter, 
and  beat  them  for  twenty  minutes; — mix  in  lightly  one 
pound  of  Flour — ^put  the  whole  into  a  hoop,  cased  with  paper, 
on  a  baking  plate,  and  bake  it  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

An  ounce  of  Carraway  seeds  added  to  the  above,  will  make 
what  is  termed  a  Rich  Seed  Cake. 

Plum  Pound  CoAe.— (No.  58.) 

Make  a  Cake  as  (No.  57,)  and  when  you  have  beat  it,  mix 
in  lightly  half  a  pound  of  Currants,  two  ounces  of  Orangey 
and  two  ounces  of  candied  Lemon  Peel  cut  small,  aod^half  a 
Nutmeg  grated. 

Common  Seed  Cake. — (No.  59.) 

Sift  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  Flour,  with  half  a  pound  of 
good  Lisbon  or  Loaf  Sugar,  pounded  into  a  pan  or  bowl,— *• 
make  a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  luke* 
warm  milk,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  thick  yeast, — mix  the 
milk  and  yeast  with  enough  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream 
(this  is  called  setting  a  sponge,)  set  it  by  in  a  warm  place  for 
one  hour — ^in  the  meantime,  melt  to  an  oil  half  a  pound 
of  fresh  Butter,  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  one 
ounce  of  Carraway  Seeds,  and  enough  of  milk  to  make  it  ojf 


Appendix.}  pittTRTi  te.  441 

a  ttiiddling  fitiffiieid$--^lilie  a  hoop  with  paper,  well  tabbed 
over  wkh  bMttar— -put  in  themixture-^w^Mt  it  some  time  to 
prove  in  a  stove,  or  before  the  fire,  and  bake  it  on  it  plate 
about  an  hour,  in  rather  a  hot  oven,— -when  done,  rub  the 
top  over  with  a  paste  brush  dipped  in  milk. 

tUch  Yeoit  OtAe.— (Nd.  60.) 

Set  a  sponge  as  in  the  foregoing  Receipt,  with  the  same 
proportions  of  Flour,  Sugar,  Milk,  and  Yeast,- ^when  it  has 
lain  some  time,  mix  it  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
Butter  oiled,  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  Currants,  half  f^ 
pound  of  Candied  Lemon  and  Orange  Peel  cut  fine,  grated 
Kutmeg,  ground  Allspice  and  Cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  each— case  a  hoop  as  stated  (No.  59,)  bake  it  in  a 
good  h^ted  6ven  one  hour  and  a  half. 

N.  B.  It  may  be  ICed  with  (No.  84,)  And  ornamented  as  a 
Twelfth  Cake. 

4 

QtfMn  or  Heart  CaiU».-^(No.  61.) 

One  pound  of  sifted  Sugat,  one  pound  of  Butter,  ight 
Eggs,  one  pound  and  a  quartei*  of  Flour,  two  ounces  of  Cur- 
rants, and  naif  a  Nutm^  grated. 

Cream  the  butter  as  at  (No.  §5,)  and  mix  it  well  with  the 
si^ar  and  spice,  then  put.  in  half  the  eggd,  ^nd  beat  it  ten 
mmutes — add  the  remainder  of  the  eees,  dnd  work  it  ten 
minutes  longer,-stir  in  the  flour  ll^L  and  the  currants 
afterwards,— 4hen  take  small  tin  pans  of  any  shape  (hearts 
the  most  usual,)  rub  the  inside  of  each  with  butter,  fill  and 
bake  them  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  on  a  sheet  of  matted 
wire,  or  on  a  baking  plate* — when  done,  remove  them  as 
early  aji  possible  from  the  pans. 


QueenU  Dr(^s*^(J!io^  62.) 

Leave  cmt  four  odnces  of  Flour  from  the  last  Receipt,  and 
add  two  ounces  more  of  Currants,  and  two  ounces  of  candied 
Peel  cut  small—- work  it  the  same  as  in  the  last  receipt,  and 
when  ready  put  the  mixture  into  a  Biscuit  funnel,*  and  lay 

I  ■^#W«—  i«  111.  Ill  I    ■       I         I  M II  ■  I. 

*  Take  fine  Brown  Holland,  and  make  a  hug  \n  the  form  of  a  cone, 
about  five  incbes  over  at  the.  top.  Gut  a  small  bole  at  the  bottomland  tie 

U  5 


442  .WASTRY,  ke.  [Jppendia% 

them  out  in  drops  about  the  size  of  half  a  crown,  on  white 
paper,— -bake  th«n  in  z  hot  oven,  and  when  nearly  cbldy  take 
them  from  the  paper.  • 

Skrewtlnm/  CaAe^.— (No.  63.) 

Rub  well  together  one  pound  of  pounded  Sv^ar,  one  pound 
of  fresh  Butter,  and  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sifted  Flour,— 
mix  it  into  a  paste,  with  half  a  gill  of  milk  or  cream,  and 
one  egg, — ^let  it  lie  half  an  hour,  roll  it  out  thin,  cut  it  out 
into  small  cakes  with  a  tin  cutter,  about  three  inches  over, 
and  bake  them  on  a  clean  baking  plate,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Banbury  CaAe««— (No.  64.) 

Set  a  sponge  with  two  table-spoonsful  of  thick  Yeast,  a 
gill  of  warm  Milk^.and  a  pound  of  Flour, — when  it  has 
worked  a  little,  mix  with  it  half  a  pound  of  Currants,  washed 
and  picked,  Italf  a  povnd  <if  da^died  Orange  and  Lemon  Peel 
cut  small,  odfe  ouace-  df  Spice,  such  as  ground  Cinnamon, 
Allspice,  Ginger,  and  grated  Nutmeg:  mix  the  whole  together 
with  half  a  pound  of  Jloftey,  roll  out  Puff  Paste  (No.  1,)  a 
quarter  of  an^incfa  thick,  cut  it  into  rounds  with  a  cutter, 
a«K>ut  four  inches  over,  lay 'on  each  with  a  spoon  a  small 
quantity  of  the  mixtnr^ — close  it  round  with  the  fingers  in 
the  form  of  aji-oval — ^place  the  join  underneath — press  it  flat 
with  the  hand — sift  sugar  over,  Imcl  bake  them  on  a  plate  a 
quarter  of  an  hpur^  m  a  moderate  oven,  and  of  a  light  colour. 

*Bath  Buns.— (So.  65.) 

Rub  together  with  the  hand  one  pound  of  fine  Flour,  and 
half  a  pound  of  Butter — ^beat  six  Eggs,  and  add  them  to  the 
Hour,  kc.  with  a  table-spoonful  of  good  Yeast — ^mix  them 
all  together,  with'  about  half  a  tea-cupful  of  milk — set 'it  in  a 
warm  place  for  an  hour,  then  mix  in  six  ounces  of  sifted 


in  a  small  pipe  of  a  tapering  form,  abotit  two  inches  long ;  -and  the  boie 
nanst  be  large  or  small,  according  to  the  size  of  the  Biscuits  or  Cal» 
to  be  made.    When  the  various  mixtures  are  put  in,  lay  the  pipe  6loM 
to  the  paper»  and  press  it  out  in  rows. 
Some  use  a  Bnlloclc's  Bladder  for  the  purpose. 


\^ppendix,2  PASTRY,  &c.  443 

Sugtoy  and  a  few  Carraway  Seeds— mould  them  into  Buns 
witha'^ble-spooQ,  on  a  'Clean  baking  plate — throw  six  or 
eight  Carraway  Comfits  on  each,  and  bake  them  in  a  hot 
oven  about  ten  minutes.  This  quantity  should  make  about 
eighteen. 

Sponge  Biscuits, — (No.  66,) 

Break  into  a  round-bottomed  Preserving  Pan,*  nine  good- 
sized  Eggs,  with  one  pound  of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  and  some 
grated  Lemon  Peel; — set  the  pan  over  a  very  slow ii re,  and 
whisk  it  till  quite  warm  (but  not  too  hot  to  set  the  E^,) 
remove  the  pan  from  the  hre,  and  whisk  it  till  cold,  which 
may  be  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  stir  in  the  flour  lightly 
with  a  spattle,  previous  to  which,  prepare  the  sponge  frame 
as  follows  : — Wipe  them  well  out  with  a  clean  cloth — rnb 
the  insides  with  a  brush  dipped  in  butter,  which  has  been 
clarified,  and  sift  loaf  sugar  over  ; — fill  the  frames  with  the 
mixture,  throw  pounded  sugar  over,  bake  them  five  minutes 
in  a  brisk  oven ;  when  done,  take  them  from  the  frames,  and 
lay  them  on  a  sieve. 

Savoy  Cake^  or  Sponge  Cake  in  a  Mould, — (No.  67.) 

Take  nine  Eggs,  their  weight  of  Sugar, 'apd  six  of  Flour, 
some  grated  Lemon,  -or  a  few  drops  of  Essence  of  Lemon, 
and  half  a  gill  of  Orange-flower -Water,— Mrbrk  them  as  in 
the  last  receipt ; — put  in  the  orange-flower  water  when  you 
take  it  from  the  fire ; — ^be  very  earfeful  the  mould  is  quite 
dfy; — ^rub  it  all  over  the  inside  with  Butter, — put  some 
pounded  Sugar  round  the  mould  upon  the  butter,  and  shake 
it  well  to  get  it  out  of  the  crevices: — ^tie  a  slip  of  paper 
round  the  mould,  fill  it  three  parts  full  with  the  mixture,  and 
bake  it  one  hour  in  a  slack  oven ; — when  done,  let  it  stand 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  take  it  from  the  mould,  which  may 
be  done  by  shaking  it-a  little.  -  • 

Biscuit  Drops, — (No.  68.) 

Beat  well  together  in  a  pan  one  pound  of  sifted  Sugar 

■    ■         -  -  ~ 

'  •  A  Tgvide-mouthed  Earthen  Pan,  made  quite  hot  in  the  oven,  or  on 
a  fire,  will  be  a  good  substitute. 


444  PASTRY,  &c.  [Aj^pendk, 

with  eight  £^  for  twenty  minutes ;  then  add  a  qtiaiter^ 
an  ounce  of  Carraway  Seeds,  and  one  pound  and  a  quarter  oC 
Floor ;"— lay  wafer  paper  on  a  bakii^  plate, — put  the  mix- 
ture intaa  biscuit  funnel,  and  drop  it  out  on  the  paper  about 
the  size  of  half  a  crown,  sift  Si^r  over,  and  bake  them  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Savoy  Bi»(saits.—{^o.  69.) 

To  be  made  as  Drop  Biscuits,  omitting  the  carrawavs  and 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  :«»put  it  into  the  biscuit  nmnel, 
and  lay  it  out  about  the  length  and  size  of  your  finger,  on 
common  shop  paper  ;— <6trew  Sugar  over,  and  bake  tbera  in 
a  hot  oven  ;^when  cold,  wet  the  backs  of  the  paper  with  i 
paste-brush  and  water:  when  laid  some  time,  take  them 
carefully  off,  and  place  them  back  to  back. 

Italian  Macarqont. — {No.  70.) 

Take  one  pound  of  Valentia,  or  Jordan  Almonds,  blanched, 
—pound  them  quite  fine  with  the  whites  of  foiur  Eggs,  add 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  and  rub  them 
well  together  with  the  pestle, — ^put  in  by  decrees  about  ten 
or  eleven  more  whites,  working  them  well  as  you  put  them 
in  ;»-but  the  best  criterion  to  go  by  in  trying  their  lightness, 
is  to  bake  one  or  two,  and  if  you  find  them  heavy,  put  one 
or  two  more  whites  ; — ^put  the  mixture  into  a  biscuit  funnel, 
and  lay  them  out  on  wafer  paper,  in  pieces  about  the  size  of 
a  small  walnut,  having  ready  about  two  ounces  of  blanched 
and  dry  Almonds  cut  mto  slips, — put  three  or  four  pieces  on 
each,  and  bake  them  on  wires,  or  a  Baking  Plate,  in  a  sk)w 
oven, 

Obs. — Almonds  should  be  blanched  and  (b-ied  gradually 
two  or  three  days  before  they  are  used,  by  which  means 
they  will  work  much  better,-^and  where  ]ai^  quantities  are 
used,  it  is  advised  to  grind  $fem  in  a  mill  provided  for  that 
purpose. 

Ratafia  Cakes (No.  71.) 

To  half  a  pound  of  blanched  Bitter,  and  half  a  pound  of 
Sweet  Almonds,  put  the  Whites  of  four  E^, — beat  them 
quite  fine  in  a  mortar,  and  stir  in  two  ppimds  and  a  quaiter 
ci  Loaf  Sugar^  pounded  and  sifted,-— nu>  tbem  well  together. 


jlppendix.]  PASTRY^  kCp  445 

with  the  whites*  (hy  degrees)  of  nine  Eggs ;  (try  their  light- 
ness as  in  the  last  receipt ;)  lay  them  out  from  the  biscuit 
funnel  on  caitridge  paper^  in  drops  about  the  size  of  a  shiU 
lingy  and  bake  them  in  a  middling  heated  oven,  of  a  light 
brown  colour,  and  take  them  from  the  papers  as  soon  as  cold. 
N.6.  A  smaller  pipe  must  be  used  in  the  funnel  than  for 
other  articles* 

Almond  Sponge  Cake. — (No,  72.) 

Pound  in  a  mortar  one  pound  of  blanched  Almonds  quite 
fine,  with  the  Whites  of  three  Eggs, — then  put  in  one  pound 
of  sifted  Loaf  Sugar,  some  grated  Lemon-peel,  and  the  Yolks 
of  fifteen  Eggs, — ^work  them  well  togetfaM^r ;-— beat  up  to  a 
solid  froth  the  Whites  of  twelve  Eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the 
other  Ingredients  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  dry 
Flour : — ^prepare  a  mould  as  at  (No«  67 ;)  put  in  the  mix* 
ture,  and  bake  it  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven  :-^-take  it  carefully 
from  the  mould,  and  set  it  on  a  sieve. 

Ratafia  CaJte.— (No.  73.) 

To  be  made  as  above,  omitting  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet,  and  substituting  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Bitter 
Almonds. 

Diet  Bread  Cafc?.— (No.  74.) 

Boil,  in  half  a  pint  of  Water,  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
Lump  Sugar, — ^have  ready  one  pint  of  Eggs,  three  parts 
Yolks,  in  a  pan, — pour  m  the  Si^ar,  ana  whisk  it  quick 
till  cold,  or  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour, — then  stir  in  two 
pounds  of  sifted  Flour,  case  the  insides  of  square  tins  with 
white  paper,  fill  them  three  parts  full,  sift  a  little  Sugar  over^ 
and  bake  it  in  a  warm  oven,  and  while  hot  remove  them  from 
the  moulds. 

Orange  Crtnjerfcncod.— (No.  75,) 

Sifl  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  fine  Flour,  and  add  to 
it  a  pound  and  three  quarters  of  Treacle,  six  ounces  of  Can^t 
died  Orange-peel  cut  small,  three  quarters  of  a  poi^nd  of 
Moist  Sugar,  one  ounce  of  ground  Ginger,  and  one  ounce  of 
Allspice : — meh  to  an  Oil  Uuree  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Blit- 


446  PABTlty;  &c.  [Appendk. 

ter» — ^mix  the  whole  well  tojgether,  and  lay  it  by  for  twelve 
hours, — ^roU  it  out  with  as  little  ^Flour  as  possible  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  pieces  three  inches  long  and  two 
wide,— mark  them  in  the  form  of  chequers  with  the  back  of 
a  knife,  put  them  on  a  baking  plate  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  apart, — ^rub  them  over  with  a  finish  dipped  into  the 
Yolk  of  an  Egg  beat  up  with  a  tea-cupful  of  Milk,  bake  it  ia 
i(  cool  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;-^when  done,  wash 
them  slightly  over  again,-^ivide  the  pieces  with  a  knife,  (as 
in  baking  they  will  run  together.) 

Gingerbread  JVW*.— (No.  76.) 

To  two  pounds  of  sifted  Flour,  put  two  pounds  of  Treacle, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Moist  Sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
Candied  Orange-peel  cut  small,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of 
ground  Ginger,  one  ounce  of  ground  Carraways,  and  three 
quarterf*  of  a  pound  of  Butter  oiled  : — mix  all  well  together, 
and  set  it  by  some  time, — ^then  roll  it  out  in  pieces  about  the 
size  of  a  small  walnut, — ^lay  them  in  rows  on  a  baking  plate, 
press  them  flat  with  the  hand,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  o?en 
aboat  ten  minutes. 

Plain  Bun*.— (No.  77.) 

To  four  pounds  of  sifted  Hour,  put  one  pound  of  good 
Moist  Sugar, — make  a  cavity  in  the  centre,  and  stir  in  a  gill 
of  good  Yeast,  a  pint  of  lukewarm  Milk,  with  enough  of  the 
Flour  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,— cover  it  over,  and 
let  it  lie  two  hours, — ^th^n  melt  to  an  oil  (but  not  hot)  one 
pound  of  Butter, — stir  it  into  the  other  Ingredients,  with 
enough  warm  Milk  to  make  it  a  soft  paste  ; — throw  a  little 
Flour  over,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour, — have  ready  a  baking 
platter  rubbed  over  with  Butter, — mould  with  the  hand  the 
dough  into  buns  about  the  size  of  a  large  egg, — ^lay  them  in 
rows  full  three  inches  apart,  set  them  in  a  warm  place  for 
half  an  hour,  or  till  they  have  risen  to  double  their  size,— 
bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  of  a  good  colour,  and  wash  them 
over  with  a  brush  dipped  into  Milk  when  drawn  from  the  oven. 

Cross  Buns.— {^o  78.) 
To  the  above  mixture  put  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 


Appendix.^  pastry,  &c.  447 

Allspice^  Cinnamon,  and  Mace,  mixed,— and  when  half 
proved  press  the  form  of  a  cross  with  a  tin  mould  (made  for 
the  purpose)  in  the  centre,  and  proceed  as  above. 

Seed  BttiM.— (No.  79.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  plain  Bun  Dough  (No.  77),  and  mix 
in  one  ounce  of  Carraway  Seeds, — butter  the  insides  of 
small  tart-pans, — ^mould  the  dough  into  buns,  and  put  one 
in  each  pan, — set  them  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and  when 
sufficiently  proved,  ice  them  with  the  White  of  an  Egg  beat 
to  a  froth,  aod  laid  on  with  a  paste-brush,  some  pounded 
Sugar  upon  that,  and  dissolve  it  with  water  splashed  from 
the  brush : — bake  them  in  a  warm  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Plum  fiwjw.— (No.  80.) 

To  two  pounds  of  (No.  77)  mixture,  put  half  a  pound  of 
Currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Candied  Orange-peel  cut 
into  small  pieces,  half  a  Nutmeg  erated,  half  an  ounce  of 
mixed  Spice,  such  as  Allspice,  Cmnamon.  &c. : — ^mould 
them  into  Buns,  jag  them  round  the  edge  with  a  knife^  and 
proceed  as  with  Plain  Buns  (No.  77.) 

Or^ea^— (No.  81.) 

Pound  very  fine  one  pound  of  Jordan  and  one  ounce  of 
Bitter  Almonds  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  half  a  gill  of 
Orange-flower  water  to  keep  them  from  oiling, — ^then  mix 
with  them  one  pint  of  Rose  and  one  pint  of  Spring  water,— 
rub  it  through  a  tammis  cloth,  or  lawn  sieve,  till  the  Almonds 
are  quite  dry,  which  will  reduce  the  quantity  to  about  a 
-quart : — have  ready  three  pints  of  Clarified  Sugar,  or  Water, 
and  boil  it  to  a  crack,  (which  may  be  known  by  dippin? 
your  fingers  into  the  sugar,  and  then  into  cold  water,  and  if 
you  find  the  sugar  to  crack  in  moving  your  finger,  it  has 
boiled  enough) ;  put  in  the  Almonds,  boil  it  one  minute,  and 
when  cold  put  it  into  small  bottles  close  corked,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  which  will  be  sufficient  for  a  tumbler  of  water : — 
snake  the  bottle  before  using. 

Obs. — If  the  Orgeat  is  for  present  use,  the  Almonds  may 
be  pounded  as  above,  and  mixed  with  one  quart  of  Water, 
one  quart  of  Milk,  a  pint  of  Capillaire  or  Clarified  Sugar, 


448  9ASTUY,  kc.  lAj^pendix. 

rubbed  through  a  tammis  or  fine  8ievtt>  and  put  into  decanlcfs 
for  use. 

Baked  Peurf •— (No.  82.) 

Take  twelve  large  baking  Pears,-«Hpard  and  cut  them  into 
halves,  leaving  on  the  stem  about  halt  an  inch  long;  takeout 
the  core  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  and  plape  them  dose  to^ 

f  ether  in  a  block-tin  saucepan,  the  inside  of  which  is  quite 
ri^ht,  with  the  cover  to  ht  quite  closei — ^put  to  them  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  cut  thin,  with  half  its  juice,  a  small  stick  of 
Cinnamon,  and  twenty  grains  of  Allspice ;  cover  them  with 
spring  water,  and  allow  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  a  pint  an^ 
a  hau  of  water ;— -cover  them  up  close,  ana  bake  tnem  % 
six  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven : — ^they  will  be  quite  tender, 
and  of  a  bright  colour. 

06<.— Prepared  Cochineal  is  generally  used  for  colouring 
the  Pears ;  but  if  the  above  is  strictly  attended  to,  it  will  be 
found  to  answer  best. 

To  Dry  Apples.— (^o.  83.) 

Take  Bif&ns,  or  Orange  or  Lemon  Pippins,^— the  former 
are  the  best;  choose  the  clearest  rinds,  and  without  any 
blemishes ;  lay  them  on  clean  straw  on  a  baking  wire, — 
cpver  them  well  with  more  straw,  set  them  into  a  slow 
oven,— let  them  remain  for  four  or  five  hours,— <lraw  them 
out,  and  rub  them  in  your  hand,  and  press  them  very  gendy, 
otherwise  you  will  burst  the  skins  ;-^retum  them  into  the 
oven  for  about  an  hour,  press  them  again,— when  cold,  if  they 
look  dry,  rub  them  over  with  a  little  clarified  Sugar. 

Obs. — ^By  being  put  into  the  oven  four  or  five  times,  press* 
ing  them  between  each  time,  they  may  be  brought  as  fla^an^ 
eat  as  well  as  the  dried  Biffins  from  Norfolk. 

leingyfor  Twelfth  or  Bride  Cafe.— (No.  84.) 

Take  one  pound  of  double  refined  Si^au:,  pounded  and 
Sifted  through  a  lawn  sieve ; — put  into  a  pan  quite  free  from 
grease, — ^break  in  the  whites  ot  six  eggs,  and  as  much  powder 
Bkue  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence  ;-*-beat  it  well  with  a  spatde 
for  ten  minutes,  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  Lemon,  and 
beat  it  till  it  becomes  thick  and  transparent     Set  the  cak^ 


jfypendixJ]  pastry,  8ec,  449 

you  intend  to  Ice,  in  an  oven  or  warm  plaoe,  five  minutefii— 
then  spread  over  the  top  and  sides  with  the  mixture  9s 
smooth  as  possible ; — ^if  for  a  Wedding  Cake  only,  plain  ioe 
it ;  if  for  a  Twelfth  Cake,  ornament  it  with  Gum  Pasted  pr 
fancy  articles  of  any  description* 

Obs. — ^A  good  Twelfth  Cake,  not  baked  too  mucl^  aa|i 
kept  in  a  cool  dry  place,  will  retain  its  moisture  and  eat  well, 
if  Twelve  months  old« 

To  Boil  Sugar  to  CSamw</.— {No.  85.) 

Break  into  a  small  copper  or  brass  pan,  one  poimd  of 
refined  Sugar,  put  in  a  gill  of  spring  water ; — set  it  on  a  fire, 
when  it  boils,  skim  it  quite  clean,  and  let  it  boil  quick,  till  it 
comes  to  the  degree  called  Crack,  which  may  be  known  by 
dipping  a  tea-spoon  or  skewer  into  the  sugar,  and  let  it  drop 
to  tne  bottom  of  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  and  if  it  remains  hard, 
it  has  attained  that  degree; — squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  let  it  remain  one  minute  longer  on  the  fire,  thep 
set  the  pan  into  another  of  cold  water : — ^have  ready  moulds  of 
any  shape, — ^rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil,  dip  a  spoon  or 
fork  into  the  sugar,  and  throw  it  over  the  mould  in  finiB 
threads,  till  it  is  quite  covered: — make  a  sms^  handle  of 
Caramel,  or  stick  on  two  or  three  small  Gum  Paste  rings,  by 
way  of  ornament,  and  place  it  over  small  pastry  of  any  de- 
flcripticm. 

ji  Croquante  of  Paste. — (No.  ^6.) 

KoU  out  Paste,  as  (No.  8),  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick,— rub  over  a  plain  moiild  with  a  little  fresh  butter :— r 
lay  on  the  Paste  very  even,  and  equally  thin  on  both  sides  ;-^ 
pare  it  round  the  rim ;  then  with  a  small  penknife,  cut 
out  small  pieces  as  fancy  may  direct ;— such  as  diamonds, 
stars,  circles,  sprigs,  &c., — or  use  a  small  tin  cutter  of  iiny 
shape;  let  it  lie  to  dry  some  t^me,  apd  bake  it  a  few 
minutes  in  a  slack  oven  of  a  light  colour ; — ^remove  it  from 
the  mould,  and  place  it  over  a  Tart,  or  any  other  dish  of 
small  Pastry.  « 

Derby  or  Short  CaJie*.— (No.  87.) 
Rub  in  with  the  hand  one  pound  of  Butter  into  two 


450  PASTRY,  &c.  [Jppendix. 

pounds  of  sifted  Flour ;— put  one  pound  of  Currants,  one 
pound  of  good  moist  sugar,  and  one  egg;  mix  all  together 
with  half  a  pint  of  milk,— roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  them  into 
round  Cakes  with  a  Cutter ; — lay  them  on  a  clean  Baking 
Plate,  and  put  them  into  a  middling  heated  oven  for  about 
five  minutes. 

Egg  and  Ham  Patties. — (No.  88.) 

Cut  a  slice  of  Bread  two  inches  thick,  from  the  most 
solid  part  of  a  stale  quartern  loaf:  — have  ready  a  tin  round 
Cutter,  two  inches  diameter, — cut  out  four  or  five  pieces, 
then  take  a  cutter  two  sizes  smaller,  press  it  nearly  through 
the  larger  pieces,  then  remove  with  a  small  knife,  the  hread 
from  the  inner  circle ; — have  ready  a  large  stewpan  full  of 
boiling  Lard ; — fry  them  of  a  light  brown  colour,  drain  them 
dry,  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  set  them  by  till  wanted ;  then 
take  half  a  pound  of  lean  Ham,  mince  it  small,  add  to  it  a 
gill  of  good  brown  Sauce; — stir  it  over  the  fire  a  few 
minutes,  and  put  a  small  quantity  of  Cayenne  Pepper  and 
Lemon  Juice ; — fill  the  shapes  with  the  mixture,  and  lay  a 
poached  Egg,  see  (No.  546)  upon  each. 

DaTMOTiy  or  other  Plum  Cheese, — (No.  89.) 

Take  Damsons  that  have  been  preserved  without  sugar, — 
pass  them  through  a  sieve,  to  take  out  the  skins  and  stones. 
—To  every  pound  of  Pulp  of  Fruit,  put  half  a  pound  of 
Loaf  Sugar,  broke  small ; — boil  them  together  till  it  becomes 
quite  stiff;  pour  it  into  four  common  sized  dinner  plates, 
rubbed  with  a  little  sweet  oil, — put  it  into  a  warm  place  to 
dry,  and  when  quite  firm,  take  it  firom  the  plate,  and  cut  it 
into  any  shape  you  choose. 

N.  B.  Damson  Cheese  is  generally  used  in  Desserts. 

Barley  Stigar. — ^(No.  90.) 

Clarify  as  (No.  475),  three  pounds  of  refined  Sugar, — 
boil  it  to  the  degree  of  cracked^  (which  may  be  ascertained 
by  dipping  a  spoon  into  the  Sugar,  and  then  instantly  into 
cold  water,  and  if  it  appears  brittle,  it  is  boiled  enough) ; 
squeeze  in  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  the  Juice,  and  four  drops 
of  Essence  of  Lemon,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and 


Appendix.']  PASTRY,  &c.  451 

set  it  by  a  few  minutes :— have  ready  a  marble  slab,  or 
smooth  stone,  nibbed  over  with  Sweet  Oil, — pour  over  the 
Sugar,  cut  it  into  long  stripes,  with  a  large  n^r  of  scissors, 
— twist  it  a  little,  and  when*cold,  keep  it  from  the  air  in  tin 
boxes  or  canisters. 

N.  B.  A  few  drops  of  Essence  of  Ginger,  instead  of 
Lemon,  will  make  what  is  called  Ginger  Barley  Sugar. 

Barley  Sugar  Drops, — (No.  91.) 

To  be  made  as  the  last  Receipt.  Have  ready,  by  the 
time  the  Sugar  is  boiled  sufficiently,  a  large  sheet  of  Paper, 
with  a'  smooth  layer  of  sifted  loaf  sugar  on  it ; — ^put  the 
boiled  Sugar  into  a  ladle  that  has  a  fine  lip : — pour  it  out,  in 
•drops  not  larger  than  a  shilling,  on  to  the  sifted  sugar ;  when 
cold,  fold  them  up  separately  in  white  paper. 

N.  B.  Some  use  an  oiled  marble  slab  instead  of  the  sifted 
Sugar. 

Raspberry  Jam. — (No.  92.) 

Rub  fresh  gathered  Raspberries,  taken  on  a  dry  day* 
through  a  wicker  sieve, — to  one  pint  of  the  pulp,  put  one 
pound  of  Loaf  Sugar,  broke  small ; — put  it  into  a  preserving 
pan  over  a  brisk  fire, — when  it  begins  to  boil,  skim  it  well, 
and  stir  it  twenty  minutes ; — put  into  small  pots, — cut  white 
paper  to  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  pot, — dip  them  in  Brandy, 
.and  put  them  over  the  jam  when  cold,  with  a  double  paper 
tied  over  the  pot. 

Strawberry  Jam  is  made  the  same  way,  and  the  Scar- 
lets are  most  proper  for  that  purpose. 

.Apricot,  or  any  P/um  Jam.— r (No.  93.) 

After  taking  away  the  stones  from  the  Apricots,  and  cut- 
ting out  any  blemishes  they  may  have, — ^put  them  over  a 
islow  fire,  in  a  clean  stewpan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water;— 
when  sodded,  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve : — ^to  every 
pound  of  pulp,  put  one  pound  of  sifted  loaf  sugar, — put  it 
into  a  preserving  pan  over  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  it  boils, 
skim  it  well,  and  throw  in  the  kernels  of  the  Apricots,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  hitter  Almonds,  blanched ; — ^boil  it  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  fast,  and  stirring  it  all  the  time ; — remove  it  from 
the  fire,  and  fill  it  into  Pots,  and  cover  them  as  at  (No.  92.) 


452  PASTRY,  te«  [Jppendir,' 

N.  B.  Green  Gages  or  Plutos  may  be  done  in  tile  eaiae 
way,  omitting  the  Kernels  or  Almooiis. 

Lemon  Odpt. — (No.  94) 

Take  large  smooth-rinded  Malaga  Lemons ; — ^race  or  cut 
dff  their  peel  into  Chips  with  a  small  knife ;  (this  witt 
require  some  practice  to  do  it  properly),  throw  them  into 
salt  and  water  till  next  day,<^have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  throw  them  in  and  boil  them  tender.  Drain  tfaem 
well: — after  haviDg  lain  some  time  in  water  to  cool,  pol 
them  in  an  earthen  pan,  pour  over  enough  boiling  clarined 
Sugar  to  cover  them,  and  tnen  let  them  lie  two  days  ;^thea 
strain  the  Syrup,  ^ut  more  Sugar,  and  reduce  it  by  b(»lii^ 
till  the  Syrup  is  quite  thick,— put  in  the  Chips,  and  simmer 
them  a  few  minutes,  and  set  them  by  for  two  daysi^-repeat 
it  once  more,  let  them  be  two  days  longer,  and  they  wiU  be 
fit  to  candy,  which  must  be  done  as  follows: — ^take  four 
pints  of  clarified  Sugar,  which  will  be  sufficient  for  six 
pounds  of  Chips, — boil  it  to  the  degree  of  hloumy  (which 
may  be  known  oy  dipping  the  skimmer  into  the  Sugar,  and 
blowing  strongly  through  the  holes  of  it;  if  little  bladders  ap- 
pe^,  it  has  attamed  that  degree) ;  and  when  the  Chips  att 
thoroughly  drained  and  wiped  on  a  clean  cloth,  pot  them 
into  tl^  Syrup,  stirring  them  about  with  the  skimmer  dll 
you  see  the  Sugar  become  white  ;^»then  take  them  out  with 
two  forks,  shake  them  lightly  into  a  wire  sieve,  and  set  them 
into  a  stove,  or  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 

N.  6.  Orange  Chips  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

Dried  Cherries. — (No.  95.) 

Take  large  Kentish  Cherries,  not  too  ripe,*— pick  off  the 
stalks^  and  take  out  the  stones  with  a  quill,  cut  nearly  as  foe 
a  pen : — ^to  three  pounds  of  which,  take  three  pounds  of 
pints  of  clarified  Sugar,-^(See  No.  475),  boil  it  to  the  de« 
gree  of  blown;  (for  which  see  last  receipt),  put  in  the 
Uherries, — give  them  a  boil,  and  set  them  by  in  an  earthen 
pan  till  the  next  day,  when  strain  the  Syrup, — add  more 
Sugar,  and  boil  it  of  a  good  consistence ; — put  the  Cherries 
in,  and  boil  them  five  minutes,  and  set  them  oy  another  day ; 


AppmdixJ]  pastry;  &c.  453 

^.-repeat  the  boiling  two  more  days»  and  when  wanted, 
drain  them  some  time,  and  lay  them  cm  wire  sieves  to  dry  in 
^  &tove»  or  nearly  eoldoyen. 

Green  Gages  Preserved  in  Syrup*— (No.  96.) 

•  Take  the  Gages  when  nearly  rtpe,  cut  the  stalks  about  half 
an  inch  from,  the  fruity-^put  diem  into  cold  wat^,  with  a 
lump  of  alum  about  the  size  of  a  walnut ; — set  them  on  a 
slow  fire  till  they  come  to  simmer. — Take  them  from  the 
fire,  and  put  them  into  ookl  water  ;--<irain,  and  pack  them 
c^kMie  into  a  preserving  pan,  pour  over  them  enough  chrified 
Si^r  to  cover  them>— simmer  them  two  or  three  minutes; 
^— set  them  by  in  an  earthen  pan  till  next  day,  when  drain 
the  Ga^es,  and  boil  the  Syrup  with  more  Sugar  till  quite 
tbftck,--^put  in  the  Gages  and  simmer  them  three  minutes 
niore,  and  repeat  it  for  two  days, — ^when  boil  clarified 
Sugar  to  a  btow^  as  at  (No.  94),  place  the  Gages  intoglasses, 
and  pour  the  Syrup  over,  and  when  cold,  tie  over  a  bladder* 
and  upon  thai  a  leather :  and  should  you  want  any  for  dry- 
ing, drain  and  dry  th^n  on  a  wire  sieve  in  a  stove  or  sloW 
oven. 

Apricots  or  Egg  Plums  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

To  Preserve  Gewf«r.— (No.  97.} 

Take  green  Ginger,  pare  it  neatly  with  a  i^arp  knife,— 
throw  it  into  a  pan  of  c(Ad  water  as  it  is  pared,  to  keep  it 
white, — ^when  you  have  sufficient,  boil  it  till  tender,  chang- 
ing the  water  three  times ;  each  time  put  it  into  cold  water 
to  take  out  the  heat  or  spirit  of  the  Ginger, — when  tender, 
ibrow  it  into  cold  water  ;•— lor  seven  pounds  of  Ginger,  cla- 
rify eight  pounds  of  Refined  Su^r,  see  (No.  475),  when 
cold,  drain  the  Ginger,  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  pan,  with 
encHigh  of  the  Sugar,  oold,  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  two 
days, — ^then  pour  the  Syrup  from  the  Ginger  to  the  remainder 
o^  the  Sugar,  boil  it  some  time,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  on 
the  Ginger  again,  and  set  it  by  three  days  at  least  Then 
lake  the  Syrup  from,  the  Ginger  ;-«-boil  it,  and  put  it  hot 
over  the  Ginger  :<-^proceed  in  this  way  till  you  find  the 
Sugar  has  entered  the  Ginger,  boiling  the  Syrup,  and  skim* 


454  PASTRY,  &c.  [Appendtj^,- 

miiig  off  the  scum  that  rises  each  time,  until  the  Syrup  be- 
comes rich  as  well  as  the.  Gii^er. 

Obs. — If  you  put  the  Syrup  on  hot  at  first,  or  if  too  rich, 
the  Ginger  will  shrink,  an^  not  take  the  Sugar. 

N.  B.  When  green  Ginger  is  not  to  be  procured,  take 
large  races  of  Jamaica  Ginger  boiled  several  times  in  water 
till  tender,— pared  neatly,  and  proceed  as  above. 

To  Preserve  Cucumbers. — (No.  98.) 

Take  large  and  fresh*gathered  Cucumbers, — split  them 
down  and  take  out  all  the  Seeds,  lay  them  in  salt  and  water 
that  will  bear  an  £^  three  days :  set  them  on  a  fire  with 
cold  water,  and  a  small  lump  of  Alum,  and  boil  them  a  few 
minutes,  or  till  tender ; — drain  them,  and  pour  on  them  a 
thin  Syrup ; — let  them  lie  two  days,  boil  the  Syrup  again, 
and  put  it  over  the  Cucumbers,  repeat  it  twice  more,  then 
have  ready  some  fresh  clarified  Sugar,  boiled  to  a  hhw; 
(see  No.  94),  put  in  the  Cucumbers,  and  simmer  it  five 
minutes; — set  it  by  till  next  day; — ^boil  the  Syrup  and 
Cucumbers  again,  and  set  them  in  glasses  for  use. 

Preserved  Fruity  without  Sugar, — (No.  99.) 

Take  Damsons  when  not  too  ripe ; — pick  off  the  stalks, 
and  put  them  into  wide-mouthed  glass  bottles,  taking  care 
not  to  put  in  any  but  what  are  whole  and  without  blemish ; 
— ^shake  them  well  down,  (otherwise,  the  bottles  will  not  be 
half  full  when  done) ; — stop  the  bottles  with  new  soft  corks, 
not  too  tight ;  set  them  into  a  very  slow  oven  (nearly  cold), 
four  or  five  hours  ;— the  slower  they  are  done  the  better  ;-»^ 
when  they  begin  to  shrink  in  the  bottles,  it  is  a  sure  s^ 
that  the  Fruit  is  thoroughly  warm : — ^take  them  out,  and  be- 
fore they  are  cold,  drive  in  the  corks  quite  tight ; — set  them 
in  a  bottle  rack  or  basket  with  the  mouth  downwards,  and 
they  will  keep  good  several  years. 

Green  Gooseberries,  Morrello  Cherries,  Currants,  Gree» 
Gages,  or  Bullace,  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

Obs. — If  the  Corks  are  good,  and  fit  well,  there  will  be 
no  occasion  for  cementing  diem  ;  but  should  bungs  be  used,* 
it  will  be  necessary. 


Appendix,}  bread.  ^  455 


BREAD.— (No.  100.) 

Put  a  quartern  of  Flour  into  a  large  Basin  with  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  Salt, — make  a  hole  in  the  middle, — then  put  in 
a  Basin  four  table-spoonsful  of  good  Yeast,  stir  in  a  pint  of 
Milk  lukewarm,  put  it  in  the  hole  of  the  Flour,  stir  it  just  to 
make  it  of  a  thin  Batter,  then  strew  a  little  Flour  over  the 
top, — then  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  and  cover  it  over ; 
let  it  stand  till  the  next  morning:, — then  make  it  into  dough ; 
— add  half  a  pint  more  of  warm  Milk ;  knead  it  for  ten  minutes, 
and  then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  by  the  fire  for  one  hour  and 
a  half,— then  knead  it  again,  and  it  is  ready  either  for  Loaves 
or  Bricks : — >bake  them  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours,  according  to  the  size. 

French  Bread  and  Rolls. — (No.  100.) 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Milk,  make  it  quite  warm,  half 
a  pint  of  Small  Beer  Yeast,  add  sufficient  Flour  to  make  it  as 
thick  as  Batter,  put  it  into  a  pan,  cover  it  over,  and  keep  it 
warm  ;  when  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  add  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  warm  Water,  and  half  an  ounce  of  Sah, — mix  them 
well  together, — rub  into  a  Tittle  Flour  two  ounces  of  Butter, 
then  make  your  Dough,  not  quite  so  stiff  as  for  your  Bread, 
let  it  stand  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  ready 
to  make  into  Rolls,  &c.  : — let  them  stand  till  they  have 
risen,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sally  LuNN. — Tea  Cakes, — (No.  101.) 

Take  one  pint  of  Milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
thick  Small  Beer  Yeast,  put  them  into  a  pan  with  Flour 
sufficient  to  make  it  as  thick  as  Batter, — cover  it  over,  and  let 
it  stand  till  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it  will,  t.  e,  about  two 
hours,  add  two  ounces  of  Lump  Sugar,  dissolved  in  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  warm  Milk,  *  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Butter  rubbed 
into  your  Flour  very  fine, — ^then  make  your  Dough  the  same 

I  ■'^u.    -  ■    ■  _    ■    __L  I  i-i  ,    _   I  I    n  I       -II  i_  ,   1    _  .^^_^_^^^^ 

*  If  you  do  not  mind,  the  expense,  the  Cake  will  be  mach  lighter,  if 
initead  of  the  Milk  you  put  four  Eggs. 


456  BUEAD*  [Appendk, 

as  for  French  Rolls,^  &c. ; — ^let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  then 
make  up  your  Cakes,  and  put  them  on  tins : — when  they 
have  stood  to  rise,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Care  should  be  taken  never  to  put  your  Yeast  to  Water  or 
Milk  too  hot  or  too  cokU  as  either  extreme  will  destroy  the 
fermentation.  In  Summer  it  should  be  lukewarm, — in 
Winter  a  little  wanner, — and  in  very  cold  weather,  warmer 
stilL  When  it  has  first  risen,  if  you  are  not  prepared,  it 
will  not  hurt  to  stand  an  hour. 

Muffins.— [Ufa.  102.) 

Take  one  pint  of  Milk  quite  warm,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  thick  Small  Beer  Yeast, — strain  them  into  a  pan,  and  add 
sufficient  Flour  to  make  it  like  a  Batter, — cover  it  over,  and 
let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  has  risen, — then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  warm  Milk,  and  one  ounce  of  Butter 
rubbed  in  some  Flour  quite  fine, — ^mix  them  well  together, 
then  add  sufficient  Flour  to  make  it  into  Dough,— cover  it 
Qver»  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  then  work  it  up  again, 
and  break  it  into  small  pieces,  roll  them  up'quite  round,  and 
cover  them  over  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; — then  bake  them. 

Crumpets. — (No.  103.) 

The  same :  instead  of  making  the  mixture  into  Dough, 
add  only  sufficient  Flour  to  make  a  thick  Batter,  and  when 
it  has  stood  a  quarter  of  an  hour  it  will  be  ready  to  bake. 

Muffins  and  Crumpets  bake  best  on  a  Stove  with  an  Iron 
Plate  fixed  on  the  top :  but  they  will  also  bake  in  a  Frying- 
pan»  taking  care  the  fire  is  not  too  fierce,  and  turning  thm 
when  lightly  browned: 

-  Yorkshire  Cakes.— (fHo.  104.)  ' 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  thick  Small  Beer  Yeast,  mix  them  well  together  in  a 
pan  with  sufficient  Flour  to  make  a  thick  Batter, — ^let  it  stand 
in  a  warm  place  covered  over  until  it  has  risen  as  high  as  it 
will, — ^rub  six  ounces  of  Butter  into  some  Floitf  till  it  is 
quite  fine, — then  break  three  Eggs  into  your  pan  with  the 
Flour  and  Butter,  mix  them  well  together, — ^then  add  suffi- 


Appendix,']  bread.  457 

cient  Flour  to  make  it  into  a  Dough,  and  let  it  stand  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  then  work  it  up  ag^in,  and  break  it  into 
pieces  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  or  larger,  as  you  may  fancy, 
— ^roll  them  round  and  smooth  with  your  hand,  and  put  them 
on  tins,  and  let  them  stand  covered  over  with  a  light  piece  of 
Dannel. 


-»  ♦ 


The  six  last  Receipts  were  written  by  Mr.  Turner, 
Bread  and  Biscuit  Baker y  corner  of  London  and  Pitzroyi 
Street^  Fitzroy  Square. 


458  [Jpptndix, 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES. 

The  quality  of  the  various  Articles  employed  in  the  com- 
position of  Puddings  and  Pies  varies  so  much,  that  two  pud- 
dings, made  exactly  according  to  the  same  receipt,  will  he  so 
different*  one  would  hardly  suppose  they  were  made  hy  the 
same  person, — and  certainly  not  with  precisely  the  same 
quantities  of  the  (apparently)  same  Ingredients.  Flour 
fresh  ground — pure  New  Milk— Fresh-laid  E^gs — Fresh 
Butter — Fresh  Suet,  &c.  will  make  a  very  different  composi- 
tion, than  when  kept  till  each  article  is  half  spoiled. 

Plum  Puddings^  when  hoiled,  if  hung  up  in  a  cool  place 
in  the  cloth  they  are  boiled  in,  ivill  keep  good  some  months  : 
when  wanted,  take  them  out  of  the  cloth,  and  put  fbem 
mto  a  clean  cloth,  and  as  soon  as  warmed  througli — they 
are  ready. 

Mem. — ^In  composing  these  Receipts,  the  quantities  of 
Egos,  Butter,  &c.  are  considerably  less  than  is  ordered 
in  other  Cookery  Books ;  but  quite  sufficient  for  the  purpose 
of  making  the  puddings  light  and  wholesome, — we  have 
diminished  the  Expense,  without  impoverishing  the  prepa- 
rations, and  the  Rational  Epicure,  will  be  as  well  pleseed 
with  them — as  the  Rational  Economist. 

Milk,  in  its  genuine  state,  varies  considerably  in  the 
quantity  of  Cream  it  will  throw  up,— depending  on  the 
material  with  which  the  Cow  is  fed.  The  Cow  that  gives 
the  most  Milk  does  not  always  produce  the  most  Cream, 
which  varies  fifteen  or  twenty  per  cent. ;  this  may  be  imme- 
mediately  and  accurately  ascertained  by  the  Lactometer^  sold 
by  Jones,  Mathematical  Instrument  Maker,  Charing  Cross, 
pcice  2s.  6d. 

In  London,  the  Milk  is  not  only  subject  to  these  varia- 

mmt,    I  .  .  II.      I,.,     .         ■        —I ■ II  111  ■■  I  I    111    I  ■ 

*  An  old  Gentlewomao,  who  IWed  almost  entirely  on  Puddings,  told 
us  it  was  a  long  time  before  she  could  get  tlieni  made  uniformlygood— 
till  she  made  the  following  Rule — '<  if  the  Pudding  was  good;  she  let  the 
Cook  have  the  remainder  of  it — if  it  was  not,  she  gave  it  to  her  Lap 
Bog  ;*'  but  as  soon  as  this  resolution  was  Icnovin,  poor  little  Bow  Wov 
seldom  got  the  sweet  treat  after. 


AppendigJ]  puddings  and  pies.  459 

tions ;  but  is  generally  not  only  skimmed^ — ^but  thinned  with 
Sky-blue  (water)  from  the  iTon-tailed  Cow,  (the  pump.) 

London  Creamy  we  are  told,  is  sometimes  adulterated  with 
Milk,  thickened  with  Fotatoe-starch,.  and  tinged  with  Tur- 
meric : — ^this  accounts  for  the  Cockneys,  on  making  an  expe- 
dition into  the  country,  being  so  extremely  surprised  to  find 
the  thickest  part  of  the  Cream — at  the  Top/ 

Eggs  vary  considerably  in  size;  in  the  following  Re- 
ceipts we  mean  the  f ulLsized  Hen's  Egg ;  —  if  you  have 
tmly  Pullet's  Eggs,  use  two  for  one.  Break  Eggs  one  by 
one  into  a  Basin,  and  not  all  into  the  bowl  together,  because 
then,  if  you  meet  with  a  bad  one,  that  will  spoil  all  the 
rest : — strain  them  through  a  sieve  to  take  out  the  treddles. 

N.  B.  To  preserve  Eggs  for  twelve  months,  see  N.  B.  to 
(No.  547).  Snow — and  Small  Bbbr — ^have  been  re- 
commended by  some  Economists  as  admfrable  substitutes  for 
E^ss : — they  will  no  more  answer  this  purpose  than  as  sub- 
stitutes for  Sugar  or  Brandy, 

Flour,  according  to  that  champion  i^inst  adulteration, 
Mr.  Accum,  varies  m  quality  as  much  as  any  thin^. 

Butter  also  varies  much  in  quality.  SaU  Butter  may 
be  washed  firom  the  Salt,  and  then  it  will  make  very  good 
F^ry. 

Labd  varies  extremely  from  the  time  it  is  kept,  &c. 
When  you  purchase  it,  have  the  bladder  cut,  and  ascertain 
that  it  be  sweet  and  good. 

Suet.  Beef  is  the  best — ^then  Mutton  and  Veal  .-—when 
this  is  used  in  very  hot  weather,  while  you  chop  it,  dredge  it 
lightly  with  a  little  Flour. 

Bbef- Marrow  is  exceDent  for  most  of  the  purposes  for 
which  Suet  is  employed. 

Drippings,  especially  from  Beef,  when  very  clean  and 
nice,  are  frequency  used  for  Kitchen  Crusts  and  Pies,  and 
for  such  purposes  are  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  Butter^ 
Lard,  &c.    To  clean  and  preserve  Drippings,  see  (No.  83.) 

Currants,  previous  to  putting  them  into  the  Pudding, 
should  be  plumped ;  this  is  done  by  pourii^  some  boiling 
water  upon  them  :— wash  them  well,  and  then  lay  them  on  a 
sieve  or  doth  before  the  fire, — ^pick  them  clean  ficom  the 

x2 


460  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES.  [Jppen^. 

stones ; — ^this  not  only  makes  them  look  better,  but  cleanses 
them  from  all  dirt 

Raisixs,  Figs,  Dried  Cherries,  Candied  Orange 
AND  Lemon  Feel,  Citron,  and  Preserves  of  all  kinds, 
Fresh  Fruits,  Gooseberries,  Currants,  Plums,  Damsons, 
&c,  are  added  to  Batter  and  Suet  Paddings,  or  enclosed  in 
the  Crust  ordered  for  Apple  Dumplings,  and  make  all  the 
various  Puddings  called  by  those  names. 

Batter  Puddings  must  be  quite  smooth  and  free  from 
lumps ;  to  insure  this,  first  mix  the  Flour  with  a  litde 
Milk — add  the  remainder  by  degrees — and  then  the  other 
ingredients. 

If  it  is  a  plain  Pudding,  put  it  through  a  hair  sieve— this 
will  take  out  all  lumps  effectually. 

Batter  Puddings  should  be  tied  up  tight :  if  boiled  ii 
a  mould,  butter  it  first — if  baked,  also  butter  the  P^. 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  before  you  put  in  the  Pudding. 
' — set  your  stewpan  6n  a  trivet  over  the  fire,  and  keep  it 
Steadily  boilipg  al)  the  time — if  set  upon  the  fire  the  Pudding 
often  bums. 

Be  scrupulously  careful  that  your  Pudding  Cloth  is  per- 
fectly sweet  and  clean,  wash  it  without  any  Soap — ^unless 
very  greasy — ^then  rince  it  thoroughly  in  clean  water  afto*. 
Immediately  before  you  use  it  dip  it  in  Boiling- Water, 
squeeze  it  dry,  and  dredge  it  with  Flour. 

If  your  fire  is  very  fierce,  mind  and  stir  the  Puddings 
ever}-  now  and  then,  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  saucepan ;  if  in  a  Mould  this  care  is  not  so  much 
required,  but  keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  saucepan. 

When  Puddings  are  boiled  in  a  doth,  it  should  be  just 
dipped  in  a  Basin  of  cold  water,  before  you  untie  the 
Pudding  Cloth,  as  that  will  prevent  it  from  sticking;  but 
when  boiled  in  a  Mould,  if  it  is  well  buttered,  they  will  turn 
out  without.  Custard  or  Bread  Puddings  require  to  stand  fifc 
minutes  before  they  are  turned  out.  They  should  always  be 
boiled  in  a  Mould  or  Cups. 

Keep  your  Paste-board,  Rolling-pin,  Cutters,  and  Tins 
very  cleans— the  least  dust  on  the  Tins  and  Cutters,  or  the  least 
hard  Paste  on  the  Rolling-pin,  will  spoil  the  whole  of  you? 
Jabovur, 


j^jppefldix.']  PUDDINGS  AND  PIES.  461 

Things  used  fot  Pastry  or  Cakes  should  not  be  used  foi* 
any  other  purpose  :  be  very  careful  that  your  Flour  is  dried 
before  the  fire,  before  you  use  it,  for  Puff  Paste  or  Cakes ;  if 
damp,  it  will  make  it  heavy. 

In  using  Butter  for  Piiff'  Paste,  you  should  take  the 
greatest  care  to  previously  work  it  well  on  the  Paeteboard  or 
Slals  to  get  out  all  the  water  and  butter-milk,  which  very 
often  remains  in ; — when  you  have  worked  it  well  with  ^ 
dean  knife,  dab  it  over  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  it  is  then  ready 
to  lay  on  your  Paste :  do  not  make  your  Paste  over  stiff  be- 
fore you  put  in  your  Butter. 

For  those  who  do  not  understand  making  Puff  Paste,  it 
is  by  far  the  best  way  to  work  the  Butter  in  at  two  separate 
times-^divide  it  in  half — and  break  the  half  in  little  bits^ 
and  cover  your  Paste  all  over,  dredge  it  lightly  with  Flour 
— ^then  fold  it  over  each  side  and  ends,  roll  it  out  quite  thin, 
and  then  put  in  the  rest  of  the  Butter — fold  it,  and  roll  it 
again.  Remember  always  to  roll  Puff  Paste  from  you.  The 
best  made  Paste,  if  not  properly  baked,  will  not  do  the  Cook 
any  credit. 

Those  who  use  Iron  "Overu  do  not  always  succeed  in 
baking  Puff  Paste,  Fruit  Pies,  &c. — ^Puff  Paste  is  often 
spoiled  by  baking  it  after  Fruit  Pies,  in  an  iron  oven.  This 
may  be  easily  avoided  by  putting  two  or  three  bricks  that 
are  quite  even  into  the  oven  before  it  is  first  set  to  get  hot. 
This  will  not  only  prevent  the  syrup  from  boiling  out  of  the 
Pies — ^but  also  prevent  a  very  disagreeable  smell  in  the 
kitchen  and  house — and  almost  answer  the  same  purpose  as 
a  brick  oven. 

College  PiLddings.—(^o.  105.) 

Beat  four  Eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  in  a  a  quart 
basin,  with  two  ounces  of  Flour,  half  a  Nutmeg,  a  little 
Ginger,  and  three  ounces  of  Sugar — pounded  Loaf  Sugar 
is  best.  Beat  it  into  a  smooth  batter ;  then  add  six  ounces 
of  Suet  chopped  fine,  six  of  Currants  well  washed  and 
picked;  mix  it  all  well  together — a  glass  of  Brandy  or 
While  Wine  will  improve  it.  These  Puddings  are  generally 
fried  in  Butter  or  Lard  ;  but  they  are  much  nicer  baked  in 
an  oven  in  patty  pans :  twenty  minutes  will  bake  them — 
if  fried,  fiy  them  till  they  are'  of  a  nice  light  brown,  and 


462  pmiDlNGS  AKO  PiBS.  [Jppendk. 

when  fried,  roll  them  in  a  little  Flour.  You  may  add  one 
ounce  of  Orange  or  Citron  minced  very  fine ;  when  yon 
bake  them»  add  one  more  E^,  or  two  spoonsful  of  Milk. 
Serve  them  up  with  White  Wme  Sauce. 

JRtc6  Puddings  Bahed-^^  Boiled.— (So.  106.) 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  pick  very  clean  six  ounces  of  Rice^ 
put  it  in  a  quart  stewpan  three  parts  filled  with  cold  water, 
set  it  on  the  fire,  let  it  boil  five  minnte&^pour  away  the 
water,  and  put  in  one  quart  of  Milk,  a  roll  of  Lemon  Peel, 
and  a  bit  of  Cinnamon ;  let  it  boil  gently  till  the  Rice  is 
quite  tender,  it  will  take  at  least  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  be 
careful  to  stir  it  every  five  minutes,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and 
stir  in  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  Fresh  Butter,  and  beat  up  three 
Eg^s  on  a  plate,  a  salt-spooofu!  of  Nutmeg,  two  ounces  of 
Susar^  put  it  into  the  Pudding,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  quite  smooth 
•—Tine  a  pie-dish  bis(  enough  to  hold  it  with  Puff  Paste,  notcfk 
it  round  the«dge,  put  in  your  Pudding,  and  bake  it  three  qwh 
ten  of  an  hour :  this  will  be  a  nice  firm  Pudding* 

If  you  like  it  to  eat  more  like  Custard,  add  one  more  Eg^, 
and  a  half  pint  more  milk ;  it  will  be  better  a  little  thinner 
when  boiled ;  one  hour  will  boil  it.  If  you  like  it  in  fittle 
Puddings,  butter  small  tea-K^ups,  and  either  bake  or  boil 
them,  half  an  hour  will  do  either;  you  may  vary  the  Pad- 
ding by  putting  in  Candied  Lemon  or  Orange  Peel,  minced 
very  fine— or  dried  Cherritw,— K)r  three  ounces  of  CurrcaUSi 
««-or  fiatniM,—- <Hr  Apples  minced  fine. 

If  the  Puddings  are  baked  or  boiled,  serve  them  w'.th  White 
Wine  Sauce,  or  Butter  and  Sugar. 

Ground  Rice  Pudding, — (No.  107.) 

Put  four  ounces  of  ground  Rice  into  a  stewpan,  and  by  de- 
grees stir  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Milk,  set  it  on  the  fire,  with 
a  roll  of  Lemon  and  a  bit  of  Cinnamon,  keep  stirring  it  till 
it  boils— beat  it  to  a  smooth  Baiter — ^then  set  it  on  the  trivet, 
where  it  will  simmer  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; — then 
"beat  three  Esrgs  on  a  plate,  stir  them  into  the  Pudding  with 
two  ounces  of  Sugar,  and  two  drams  of  Nutmeg — take  out 
the  Lemon  Peel  and  Cinnamon — stir  it  all  well  together,  line 
a  pie  dish  with  thin  Puff  paste,  (No.  1  of  Receipts  for  Pas- 
try,) big  enough  to  hold  it,  or  Butter  the  Dish  well,  and  bake 


appendix,]  promNas  and  pibs.  463 

it  half  an  hoar — ^if  hoiled,  it  wiH  take  one  hour  m  a  mould 
well  buttered — ^three  ounces  of  Currants  may  be  added. 

Rice  Snow  BaZ&.— (No.  108.) 

Wash  and  pick  half  a  ponnd  of  Rice  very  clean,  put  it  on 
in  fl  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water ;  wh«i  it  boils  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve  till  it  is  quite  dry,  and  then 
-pare  six  apples,  weighing  two  ovoicesandahalf  each.  Divide 
the  Rice  into  six  parcels,  in  separate  cloth»— put  one  apple 
in  each — ^tie  it  loose,  and  boil  it  one  hour-^-^erve  it  with 
Sugar  and  Butter,  or  wine  sauce. 

Rioe  B/oncmanpe.— *(No.  109.) 

Pot  a  tea-copful  of  whole  Rice,  into  the  least  water  pos- 
sible, till  it  almost  bursts:  then  add  half  a- pint  of  good  Milk 
or  thin  Cream,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  quite  a  mash,  stirring  it 
the  whole  time  it  is  on  the  fire,  that  it  may  not  bum :  dip  a 
shape  in  cold  water,  aud  do  not  dr^  it,  put  in  the  rice,  and 
let  It  stand  until  quite  cold,  when  it  will  come  easily  out  of 
the  shape.  This  dish  is  much  approved  of;  it  is  eaten  with 
cr^am  or  custard,  and  preserved  fruits^^raspberries  are  best. 
It  should  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  that  it  may  get 
firm. 

This  Blancmange  will  eat  much  nicer,  flavoured  with  Spices^ 
Lemon  t^eel,  &c.  and  sweetened  with  a  little  Loaf  Sugar,  add 
it  with  the  BAilk,  and  take  out  the  Lemon  Peel  before  you  put 
in  the  mould. 

5are-a2/ PiM2tffR9;-^(No.  110.) 

Put  any  scraps  of  Bread  into  a  clean  saucepan, — ^to  about 
a  pound,  put  a  pint  of  Milk ;  set  it  on  the  trivet  till  it  boils, 
beat  it  up  quite  smooth,  then  break  in  three  Eggs,  three 
oxmces  of  Sugar,  with  a  little  Nutmeg,  Ginger,  or  Allspice, 
and  stir  it  all  well  together.  Butter  a  Dish  big  enough  to  holdf 
it,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  have  ready  two  oimces  of  suet 
chopped  very  fine,  strew  it  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and 
bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour :  four  ounces  of  Currants 
wift  make  it  much  better. 

BaUer  Pudding^  Baked  or  Boiled, — (No.  111.) 

Break  three  Eggs  in  a  basin  with  as  much  salt  as  will  lie 


464  PIJDDINQS  AND  piBK  [Appendix. 

ob  a  sixpence,  beat  them  well  together,  and  then  add  four 
ounces  of  Flour — ^beat  it  into  a  smooth  Batter,  and  by  degrees 
add  half  a  pint  of  Milk :  have  your  saucepan  ready  boiling, 
and  butter  an  earthen  mould  well,  put  the  pudding  in,  and 
tie  it  tight  over  with  a  pudding  cloth,  and  ooil  it  one  hour 
and  a  quarter.  Or  put  it  in  a  dish  that  you  have  well  but- 
tered, and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hotir. 

Currants  wtished  and  picked  clean,  or  Raisins  stoned,  are 
good  in  this  pudding,  and  it  is  then  called  a  Bladt  Cap :  or, 
add  Loaf  Sugar,  and  a  little  Nutmeg  and  Gin^r  without  the 
fruit,  it  is  very  good  that  way, — serve  it  with  Wine  sauce. 

Jpple  Piuddng  Bot/ed— (No.  112.) 

Chop  four  ounces  of  Beef  Suet  very  fin^,  or  two  ounces  of 
Butter,  Lard,  or  Dripping — but  the  suet  makes  the  best  and 
lightest  crust ;  put  it  on  the  paste  board,  with  eight  ounces 
of  flour,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt^  mix  it  well  together  with 
your  hands,  and  then  put  it  aH  of  a  heap,  and  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle ;  break  one  egg  in  it,  stir  it  well  together  with 
your  finger,  and  by  de^grees  infuse  as  much  water  as  will 
make  it  of  a  sti£f  pate :— roll  it  out  two  or  three  times  with 
the  rolling-pin,  and  then  roll  it  large  enough  to  receive  thir- 
teen ounces  of  Apples.  It  will  look  neater  if  boiled  in  a  basin, 
well  buttered,  tnan  when  boiled  in  a  pudding  cloth  well 
floured:  boil  it  an  hour  and  three  quartersj'^but  the  surest 
way  is  to  stew  the  apples  first  in  a  stewpan^  with  a  wine- 
glassful  of  water,  and  then  one  hour  will  boil  it.  Some  people 
ike  it  flavoured  with  Cloves  and  Lemon  Peel,  and  sweeten  it 
with  two  ounces  of  Sugar. 

Gooseberries,  Currants,  and  Raspberries,  CHKit- 
RiEs,  Damsons,  and  various  Plums  and  Fruits,  are 
made  into  Puddings  with  the  same  Crust  directed  for  Apple 
Puddings. 

Apple  Dumplings.'^-^ (No.  113.) 

Make  Paste  the  same  as  ifor  Apple  Pudding,  divide  it  into 
as  many  pieces  as  you  want  Dumplings,  peel  the  apples  and 
core  them,  then  roll  out  your  paste  large  enough,  and  put  in 
the  apples ;  close  it  al)  round,  and  tie  them  in  pudding  cloths 


Appendix.]  puddings  and  pies.  465 

very  tight,— one  hour  will  boil  them — and  when  you  take 
them  up.  Just  dip  them  in  cold  water,  and  put  them  in  a  cup 
the  size  of  the  dumpling  while  you  untie  them,  and  they  will 
turn  out  without  breaking. 

StLct  Pudding  or  Dumplings. — (No.  1 14.) 

Chop  six  ounces  of  Suet  very  fine»<^put  it  in  a  basin  with 
six  ounces  of  Flour,  two  ounces  of  Bread  crumbs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Salt — stir  it  all  well  together ; — ^beat  two  eggs  on 
a  plate,  add  to  them  six  table*spoonsful  of  milk,  put  it  by 
degrees  into  the  basin,  and  stir  it  all  well  together ;  divide 
it  into  six  dumplings,  and  tie  them  separate,  previously 
dredging  the  cloth  lightly  with  flour. 

Boil  them  one  hour. 

This  is  very  good  the  next  day  fried  in  a  little  butter.  The 
above  will  make  a  good  puddings  boiled  in  ^n  earthenware 
mould,  with  the  addition  of  one  Haore  e^,  a  httlemore  milk, 
and  two  ounces  of  suet^  '- 

Boil  it  two  hours. 

N  6.  The  most  EconomiccU  way  of  making  Suet  Dump^ 
UngSf  is  to  boil  them  without  a  cloth  in  a  pot  with  Beef— or 
Mutton — no  Eggs  are  then  wanted^  and  the  dumplings  are 

Suite  as  lieht  without :  Roll  them  in  flour  before  you  put 
lem  into  uie  pot ;  add  six  ounces  of  Currants,  washed  and 
picked^  and  you  have  Currant  Pudding— ox  divided  into  six 
parts,  Cwrrant  Dumplings^ — a  little  sugar  will  improve 
them. 

Cottage  Potatoe  Pudding  or  Cake, — (No.  115.) 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash,  a  coupk  of  pomids  of  Potatoes ;  beat 
them  up  into  a  smooth  batter,  ^ith  about  three  quarters  of  a 
pint  of  Milk,  two  ounces  of  moist  Sugar,  and  two  or  three 
oeaten  Eggs. 

Bake  it  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Threetmnces  of  Currants  or  Raisins  may  be  added. 

Leave  out  the  Milk,  and  add  three  ounces  of  Butter,  it 
will  make  a  very  nice  Cake* 


!x& 


466  {Jpj>en£x, 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  WCKLES. 

Wk  are  not  fond  of  Pickles, — these  Sponges  of  Vinegar 
are  often  very  Indigestible,  especially  in  the  crisp  state  in 
which  they  are  most  admired.  The  Indian  Fashion  of 
pounding  Pickles  is  an  excellent  one, — We  recommend  those 
who  have  any  regard  for  tlieir  Stomach,  yet  still  wish  to  in- 
dulge their  Ton^rue,'— instead  of  eating  Pickles,  which  are 
leaUy  merely  vehicles  for  taking  a  certain  portion  of  Vinegar 
and  Spice,  &c«,  to  use  the  Flavoured  Vinegars^  su(^  as  Buu 
net  (No,  399,)  Horseradish  (No.  399*),  Tarfagon  (No.  396,) 
Mint  (No.  397,)  Cress  (Nos.  397*,  401,  403,  405*,  453, 
457,)  &c. ;  by  combinations  of  these,  a  relish  may  easily  be 
composed,  exactly  in  harmo^  with  the  palate  of  the  eater. 

The  Hchie  made  to  preserve  Cucwnoers,  ^c.  is  generally 
so  strongly  impregnated  with  Garlick,  Mustard  and  Spice, 
&c.  that  the  original  flavour  of  the  V^etables  is  quite  over- 
powered ;  and  if  the  eater  shuts  his  Eves,  his  Lingnal  nerves 
will  be  puzaded  to  inform  him  whether  he  is  munching  an 
Onion  or  a  Cocumber,  &c»,  and  nothing  can  be  more 
absurd,  than  to  pickle  I^ums,  Peaches,  Apricots,  Currants, 
Grapes,  &c.  \ 

.The  Stroiigest  Vinegar  must  he  used  for  Pidding>^it 
must  not  be  boiled,  (or  the  strength  of  the  Vinegar  and 
Spices  will  be  evaporated.) — ^By  parboiling  the  Pickles  in 
brine,  they  will  be  ready  in  much  less  time  than  they  are 
when  done  in  the  usual  u.anner,  of  soaking  them  in  ooldsak 
and  water  for  six  or  eight  days. — When  taken  out  of  the  bot 
brine«  let  them  get  cold,  and  quite  dry  before  you  put  them 
into  the  Pickle. 

To  assist  the  preservation  of  Pickles,  a  portion  of  Salt  is 
added,  and  for  the  same  purpose,  and  to  give  flavour, — 
Long  Pepper, — Black  Pepper,— AlWpice,—Gingeir, — Cloves, 
Mace, — ^Garlick, — Shallots,  •^Mustiurd,  —Horseradish, — and 
Capsicum. 

The  following  is  the  best  method  of  preparihg  the  Kckle, 
-—as  cheap  as  any,— and  requires  less  care  than  any  other 
way. 

Bruise  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  the  above  Spices; — ^put 


them  inte  a  stone  jar  wilb  a  quart  of  the  strongest  Vinegar, 
stop  the  jar  closely  with  a  bung,— cover  that  with  a  Wackier 
soaked  with  Pickle,  set  it  on-  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire 
for  three  daysy  well  shaking  it  up  at  least  thsee  times  in  the 
day,  the  pickle  should  be  at  least  three  inches  aoove  the 
Pickles* — Tlie  Jar  being  well  doaedi  and  the  infusion  being 
made  with  a  mild  heat^  there  is  no  hss  by  evaporation* 

To  enable  the  articles  yielded  to  more  easily  and  speedily 
isabibe  the  flavour  of  the  Pickle  they  are  immersed  in,  pre- 
i^iousiy  to  pouring  it  on  them — run  a  larding,  pin  through 
them  in  several  places. 

The  Spices^  &c.  commonly  used,  are  those  mentioned  in 
the  Receipt  Jbr  nickUjig  Walnuts^  which  is  also  an  excellent 
JSiakvomry  8auce  tor  cold  meats. 

The  flavour  may  be  varied  ad  infinitum^  by  adding  Celery^ 
Creas  Seed,  or  Curry  Powder,.  (No.  455,)  or  by  taking  for 
the  Liquor  any  of  the  flavoured  Vinegars,  &c.  we  have 
enumerated  above,  and  see  the  receipts  between  (Nos.  395 
and  421.) 

Pidtles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  unglazed  Earthen- 
ivace,  or  GUiss  Jars^  which  are  prefersSble,  as  you  caff^ 
without  opening  them»  observe  whether  they  want  filling  up: 
they  must  be  very  carefully  stopped  with  well  fitting  Bungs, 
and  tied  over  as  closely  a»  possible  with  a  bladder  wetted  with 
the  Piokle ;  and  if  to  be  preserved  a  long  time,  after  that  it 
iryi  itmnsA  be  dipped  in*  Bottle  Cement,  see  page  122* 

When  the  Picldee-  are  all  used,  boil  up  the  tiquor  with  a 
litde  fresh  spi€e« 

To  W(aln»i4  Liquor  may  be:  added  a  few  Anchovies  and 
Ethallots:  let  it  stand  till  it  is  q^ite  clear.,  and  bottle  it: 
thus*  3rou  may  furnish  your  table  with  aa  excellent  savoury^ 
keeping  sauee  for  Hashes,  Made  Dishes^  Fish,  &c»  at  veiy 
small  cost,  see  (No.  439.) 

Jars  should  not  be>  move  thod  three  parta  filled,  with  the 
aKtides  pickled,  which  sfaoidd  bfrcovered  w^th  Pickle  at  least 
two  inciies  above  their  sui^e; — ^the  liquor  wastes,  and  all 
of  the  articles  pickled,  that  are  not  covered,  are  soon  spoiled. 

When  they  have  been  ^one  about  a' week,  open  the  Jars, 
and  fiH^em  up  with  Pickk. 


>Sf 


468  PICKLES.  [Appendix 

•  Tie  a  wooden  spoon,  full  of  holes^  round  each  jar  to  ts^ 
them  out  with. 

If  you  wish  to  have  Ghevinns^  &b.  very  Cfreen^  this  may 
be  easily  accomplished  by  keeping  them  in  Vihiegar,  suffi- 
ciently hot,  till  they  become  so. 

If  you  wish  Catdiflovoert,  Ontoiu,  &c.  to  be  JFhiiey  use 
distilled  Vinegar  for  thekik. 

To  entirely  prevent  the  mischief  arising  from  the  action 
of  the  Acid  upon  the  metallic  utensils  usually  employed  to 
prepare  Pickle,  the  whole  of  the  process  is  directed  to  be 
performed  in  unglazed  Stone  Jars. 

N.  B.  The  maxim  of  "  Open  your  Mouthy  and  shut  your 
EyeSy^  cannot  be  better  Applied  than  to  Pickles  ;  and  the 
only  direction  we  have  to  record  for  the  improvement  of  their 
complexion,  is  the  joke  of  Dr.  Goldsmith, — *•  If  their  colour 
does  not  please  you,  send 'em  to  HamrMTsmthy — tteit's 
the  way  to  Turnkam  Green.^* 

Gherkins. — (No.  1 1 6.) 

Get  those  of  about  four  inches  long  and  an  inch  diameter, 
the  crude  half  grown  little  Gherkins  usually  pickled  are  good 
for  nothing. — Put  them  into  (unglazed)  Stone  pans,  cover 
them  with  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  made  with  a  quarter  of 
A  pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water,  cover  them  down^  set 
Aem  on  the  hearth  be  lore  the  fire  for  two  or  three  days  tiD 
they  begin  to  turn  yellow ;  then  put  away  the  water,  and 
cover  them  with  hot  Vinegar,  set  them  again  before  the  fire, 
keep  them  hot  till  they  become  Green,  (this  will  take  eight 
6r  ten  days,)  then  pour  Off  the  Vinegar, — having  ready  to 
cover  them  a  Pickle  of  fresh  Vinegar,  &c.  the  same  as  di- 
rected in  the  following  receipt  fot*  Walnuts  (leaving  out  the 
Shallots,)  cover  them  with  a  bung^  bladder,  and  leather. 
Kead  the  Observations  on  Pickles,  p^  466. 

Obs. — The  Vinegar  the  Gherkins  Were  greened  in  will 
make  excellent  Sa^^ad  SAUCE^-or  for  Cold  Meats*.— ^It  tSj  in 
fact,  superlative  Cucumber  Vinegar. 

Walnuts.— (No.  117.) 
Make  a  brine  of  Salt  and  Water,  in  the  proportion  of  a 


AppeTidix.l  PICKLES.  469 

quarter  of  a  pound  of  Salt  to  a  qtiart  of  Water — put  the  Wal- 
nuts into  this  to  soak  for  a  week-^r  if  you  wish  to  soften 
them  so  that  they  may  he  soon  ready  for  eaJting — ^run  a  lard- 
ing Pin  through  th^m  in  half  a  doizen  places — ^this  will  allow 
the  Pickle  to  penetrate,  and  they  will  be  much  softer,  and  of 
better  flavour,  land  ready  much  sooner  'than  if  not  perforated ; 
—put  them  into  a  stewpin  with  such  brine,  and  give  them  a 
gentle  simmer — put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain — ^then  lay 
them  on  a  fish  plate,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  air  till  they 
turn  black — ^this  may  take  a  coUple  of  days — put  them  into 
Glass,  Or  tnglaz6d  Stone  Jars — ^fili  these  about  three  part^ 
with  the  Walnuts,  and  fill  them .  up  with  the  following 
Pickle. 

To  each  quart  of  the  strongest  Vinegar  put  two  ounces  of 
Black  Pepper,  one  of  Ginger,  same  of  Shallots,  same  of  Salt, 
half  an  oimce  of  Allspice,  and  half  a  drachm  of  Cayenne. 
Put  these  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  it  with  a  bladder,  wetted 
with  the  pickle — tie  over  that  some  leather,  and  set  the  Jar 
on  a  trivet,  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  lor  three  days,  shaking  it 
up  three  times  a  day,  and  then  pour  it  while  hot  to  the  Wal- 
nuts, and  cover  them  down  with  Bladder,  wetted  with  the 
Piclde,  leather,  &c. 

FRENCH  Beans — Nasturtiums,  &c. — (No.  118^ 


When  young,— -and  most  other  small  green  Vegetables, 
may  be  pickled  the  same  way  as  Gherkins. 

Beef  Roots* — (No.  119.) 

Boil  gently  till  they  are  full  three  parts  done  (this  will  tdke 
from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  and  a  half,)  then  take  them 
out,  and  when  a  little  cooled,  peel  them^  and  cut  them  in 
slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  a  pickle  for  it; 
m^de  by  adding  to  each  quart  of  Vinegar,  an  ounce  of  ground 
Black  Pepper,  half -an  ounce  of  Gmger  pounded,  same  of  Salt, 
and  of  Horseradish  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  you  may  warm  it> 
if  you  like,  with  a  few  Capsicums,  or  a  littkfl^enne; — 
put  these  ingredients  into  a  Jar,  stop  it  close,  afla  let  them 
steep  thre6  de^ys  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire — then, 


470  pteKLss.  [Jppeadix. 

when  cokl»  pour  the  de«r  liquor  on  the  Beet  Root,  whkh 
have  previously  arranged  m  a  jar. 

Red  Cabbaob.— (No.  120.) 

Get  a  fine  purple  Cabbage — ^take  off  the  outside  leaves- 
quarter  it — ^take  out  the  stalk — shred  the  leaves  into  a  cul- 
lender— sprinkle  them  with  salt — let  them  remain  till  the 
morrow — drain  them  dry — put  them  into  a  Jar,  and  cover 
ihem  with  the  pickle  ordered  for  Befit  Roots. 

Onions.- (Na  121.) 

The  small  round  silver  button  Onions,  about  as  big  as"  a 
Nutmeg,  make  a  very  nice  Pickle.— Take  off  their  top  coats, 
•^ave  ready  a  stewpan,  three  parts  filled  with  boiHng  water, 
into  which  put  as  many  Onions  as  will  cover  the  top;  aa 
Boon  as  they  look  clear,  immediately  take  them  up  witb  a 
spoon  full  of  holes,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  three  times 
folded,  and  cover  them  with  another  tiM  you  have  readv  as 
many  as  you  wish :  when  they  are  quite  dry,  put  them  mto 
jars,  and  cover  them  with  hot  Pickle,  made  by  infusing  an 
ounce  of  Horseradish,  same  of  Allspice,  and  same  of  Black 
Pepper,  and  same  of  Salt,  in  a  quart  of  best  White  Wine 
Vinegar,  in  a  stone  jar,  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for 
three  days,  keeping  it  well  closed  ; — ^when  cjld,  bung  them 
down  tight,  and  cover  th\?m  with  bladder  wetted  with  the 
pickle,  and  leather. 

Cauliflowers  OR  6rocou.-^(No.  122.) 

Choose  those  that  are  hard,  yet  sufficiently  ripe— -cot  away 
the  leaves  and  stalks* 

Set  on  a  stewpan  half  full  of  water,  salted  in  proportion  of 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Salt  to  a  quart  of  water«*-4hrow  in 
the  cauhflower^let  it  heat  gradually,  when  it  boils  take  it  op 
widi  a  spoon  fiili  of  holes,  and  spread  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry 
before  the  fire,  for  twenty<-fouf  hours  at  least— ^nrhen  quite 
dry,  put  ttttn,  piece  by  piece,  into  jars  or^  glass  tie-over»-* 
ami  cover  them  with  the  pickie  we  have  mrected  for  But 
B9Cit»^-^'Gf  aoke  a  piekle  by  infiising  three  ounoes  of  the 


AppendixJ]  fitCltlEB.  47l 

Ctirry  Powder  (No*  465)  fet  three  dajs  in  a  qci^rt  of  Vinegar, 
by  the  side  of  the  fire. 

Nasturtiums  are  excellent  prepared  a^  abiove. 

li^DiAN  OR  Mixed  Pickle — Mango  or  Piccalflli. — 

(No.  123.) 

The  flavouring  ingredients  of  Indian  Pickles  are  a  com- 
pound of  Curry  Powder^  with  a  large  proportion  of  Mustard 
and  Gurlick. 

The  following  will  he  found  something  like  the  real  Mango 
Pickle,  especially  if  the  Garlick  be  used  plentifully.  To  each 
gallon  of  the  strongest  Vinegar  put  four  ounces  of  Curry 
Powder  (No.  455,)  same  of  Flour  of  Mustard,  (some  rub 
these  together,  with  half  a  pint  of  Salad  Oil,)  three  of  Ginger 
bruised — and  two  of  Turmeric,  half  a  pound  (when  skinned) 
of  Shallots,  (slightly  baked  in  a  Dutch  oven,)  two  ounces  of 
Garlick,  prepared  in  like  manner,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Salt,  and  two  drachms  of  Cayenne  Pepper. 

Put  these  ingredients  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  it  with  a 
bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle,  and  set  it  on  a  trivet  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  during  three  days,  shaking  it  up  three  times  a 
day — it  will  then  be  ready  to  receive  Gherkins — sliced  Cu- 
cumbers— sliced  Onions — ^Button  Onions — Cauliflowers — 
Celery — Brocoli — French  Beans — ^Nasturtiums — Capsicums, 
and  small  green  Melons.  The  latter  must  be  slit  in  the 
middle  sufficiently  to  admit  a  marrow  spoon,  with  which 
take  out  all  the  seeds — then  parboil  the  melons  in  a  brine 
that  will  bear  an  e^,  dry  them,  and  fill  them  with  Mustard 
Seed. and  two  Cloves  of  Garlick,  and  bind  the  Melon  roimd 
with  packthread. 

Large  Cucumbers  may  be  prepared  in  like  manner. 

Green  Peaches  make  the  best  imitation  of  the  Indian 
Manpo. 

The  other  articles  are  to  be  separately  parboiled  (ex* 
€epting  the  Capsicums)  in  a  brine  of  Salt  and  Water-  strong 
enough  to  bear  an  egg—  taken  out  and  drained — and  spread 
out  and  thoroughly  dried  in  the  ^xm—omgk  stove — or 
before  a  fire,  for  a  couple  of  day8>  and  then  put  into  the 
Pickle. 


472  PICKLES.  [Appendk. 

Any  thing  may  be  put  into  this  Pickle,  except  Red  Cab- 
bafi«  and  Wahiuts. 

It  will  keep  several  years. 

Obs. — ^To  THE  Indian  Mango  Pickle  is  added  a  con- 
siderable qtiantity  of  Mustard  Seed  OU — wbich  would  also 
be  an  excellent  warm  ingredient  in  our  Salad  Sauces. 


INDEX 


The  figure*  under  No.  refer  to  the  Receipte,  and  thoee  under  the  word  Pag^, 
where  the  Receipte  are  to  be  found— thoee  inarked  Ap.  refer  tit  the  Receipt* 
in  the  Appendix. 


Page 
Acid  of  Lemon,  Artificial, 

No.  407*    323 

Aocum     on     Adulterations, 

quoted, Note  to,  433  ....  330 
An  Aldernaan  in  Chains,  57  169 
Alanoode  Beef,  or  Veal,  or 

English  Turtle,  502  ....  371 
Allspice^  Essence  of,  412  ;.  325 

,  Tincture  of,  413  . .  325 

— -,  Sir  H.  Sloane  on,      104 

Albion    House,    Aldersgate- 

Street ;..  263 

Almond  Custards  (Ap.  No. 

54.)  v.. ...*  438 

Anchovy  Sauce,  270   276 

Essence,  433    330 

Toast,  573   420 

=:?Lt' !«*•••»»* 

Powder,  435 333 

i—  to  keep  them  well, 

Obs.to,  270 276 

Apicius,  his  Sauoe  for  boiled 

Chicken    ••••••     28 

Appetite,  good,  why  the  best 

Sauce   •••   • SI 

■  to  refresh    . . .  i .  •.     32 

— > — •  II  y  a  trois  sortes, 

Note  to  p.  30. 
Appert,  his  Art  of  Preserving 

Vegetables 194 

Apple  Pie  (Ap.  No.  32.)  .. .  431 

Pudding,  boiled   458 

Dumplings  do. 

Tart,    creamed,    (Ap. 

No.33.)     431 

Apples,  to  dry  (Ap.  No.  83.)  448 
'A^ple  Sauces  304 •  •  •  286 


.  P«g* 

Apothecaries*  Hall,  N.  B.  to, 

No.  369    30d 

Apricot  Jam  (Ap.  No.  93.)    '451 

Artichokes,  136 196 

Jenisaleiiii  ^^"^   1^ 

Asparagus,  123 .;  191 

i-  Soup,  222  ...;..  243 

Arrack,  to  imitate,  480  .  . ; .  354 
Arbutbnot,  Dr.  quoted,  Pref ;  f%  ix. 
Abemetby,  Mr.  quoted  • .  •  •       7 

Bacon,  13    ...>•..  136 

Slices  of,  526    385 

Relishing  Rashers  of, 

527  ..; ;;., ib. 

-7— ',  Sparerib,  to  Roast,  53  154 
Bain- Marie*  Note  to  485  (fe 

529.; 361,386 

Baking ...w 76- 

Baked  Custard  (Ap.  Na.  52.)  438 

Pears  (Ap.  No.  82.)..  448 

Barley-water, 565  ...  ••••  416 

Broth,  204 834 

,  to  mak&a  gal- 
lon for  a  Groat  ••  247 

Sugar  (Ap.  No.  90.)    450 

Drops  (Ap.  No.  91.)  451 

Basil  Vinegar,  or  Wine,  397  318 

Sauce,  264 274 

Batter  Pudding 458 

BeiBs,  French,  133 194- 

Beauty   ;..• 49 

Bechamel,  364 304. 

Beef  BouUli,  5,  238,   493, 

127-250 

—  how  nutritive  and  eco- 
nomical, 5 127 

to  Salt,  6 129 

Savouiy,  496 ....,,. .  368 


474 


INDBX. 


Pag6 
Beef,  a  Round  of,  Salted,  to 

boil,No.7 131 

wbat  the  outside  SUcet. 

aiegoodfor»N3.to,7..  132 
■'  " '  H-Boiie| 8  •.•■••••••    ib« 

Ribf,aiidioUed,9....  133 

BaroDof 27 

Sirloin  Roasted,  19  ..  143 

-^—  proper  way  to  carve,  Id 

Note  to,  19 145 

— r.  as  Mock  Hare,  63*  .. .  163 

Ribs  Roasted.  W  ....  146 

Do.  boned  and  rolled,  1 1    lb. 

Steaks  to  Fry,  35  ....  175 

Steak  Poddlag  ( Ap.  No. 

«4.) 429 

-"-*-  ScnisoB  ibr,  see  Note  to, 

94 179 

-— with  Onions,  86 175 

-— toBroU,  94  179 

The  SuperlattTO   Beef 

Steak    179 

Macbeth*s  Receipt,  and 

Le  Veritable  Bif-teck  de 
BettQTilliera,  N.B.  to,  94. .  180 

to  Stew,  509 309 

with  Onipn  Gravy;  501  370 

Beef  Broth,  185 227 

-— -  Broth    for   Glane,   or 
Portable  Sbiip  or  Saate, 

252 264 

Gravy,  180   ttn 

Strong  Gravy,  188  ...  229 

Cullis,  189  ib. 

for  Poultry,  Ac,  329. .  295 

Shin  of  Beef  Soup,  193  230 

— »Tea,563 414 

to  Hash,  486 301 

Shin  Stewed,  493 305 

Brisket  ditto,  404  ... .  368 

Harrioot  j  495    tb. 

Hunter's  Savoury,  Bak- 
ed, or  Stewed,  496 fb. 

Alamode,    or   English 

Turtte,502 371 

—  to  Pot,  503 373 

-^-^  Bubble   and    Squeaky 

and  the  Tune  of,  505. ...  370 


Page 
Beef,  Hashed,    and    Bones 

Broiled,  No.  506 377 

CoM,  Bioitedy  <fec.,  487  362 

Beer,  to  recover  when  hard, 

406   349 

to  Bottle,  468 349 

Cup,  464 348 

Beet  Roots,  127  192 

to  pickle  (Ap.  No. 

119.)    469 

Biscuit  Drops  (Ap.  No.  68.)  443 
Bishop, Essence  of,  413  ...  325 
Birch,  his   excellent    Mock 

Turtle,  Note  under  247  ..  258 

Blackcock,  71 179 

Blancmange,  (Ap.  No.  46.)    436 

HOlliINO   .......     ....••..      OH 

Boiled  Custard  (Ap.  No.  53.)  438 
Bouillon  de  Sant^,  196  ....  232 
Bonne    Bouch^   for   Geese, 

Pork,Ac.,  341 •..  2t9 

Brandy,  how  todbtain  geoolue 

Cogniac   .  .- 339 

Bread,  to  make  (Ap.  No. 

100.)    455 

Bread  Sauce,  321   290 

-^ Sippets  Fried,  319.,     ib. 

Crumbs  ditto,  320  ..     ib. 

Pudding,  550 408 

Rrocoli,  126     ...  192 

Pickled  (Ap.  No.  111.)  463 

Bride,  or  Wedding  Cake,  (A p. 

Mo.  do.)     ..........••••    x4v 

Brill,  143 199 

Brains,  are  sadly  dependent 

on  Bowels 7 

Dr.  Cadogan's  Obs. 

(hereon ••      9 

Brain  Balls 314 

Broilino,  ^e  (he  4th  Chap. 

of  Radiment.<  of  Cookery      90 

Brose,  Scotch,  20S* 236 

Brunswick  Tourte  (Ap.  So, 

45.)    435 

Broth,  see  the  7tb  Chap,  of 

Budinoents    of    Cookery, 

490  W 

Broth,  Black   28 


lifDEX. 


475 


Piig© 

Brotb,  of  Fragments 6d 

,  Beef,  No.  185 «27 

. ,  to  Clari/y,  258*  ... .  268 

,  MuttcHi,  194   231 

.,  Mock  ditto,  105  ... .  f 38 

,  with  Ctttlets,  490....  365 

.»  Scotch  Barley,  804  • .  234 


-,  for  sick,  564  415 

Browning,  to  colour  Soap  and 

Sauce,  d^c,  322 291 

Bill  of  Fare  for  a  Week ....    52 
Buns,  Plain  (Ap.  No.  77.)  . .  446 

,  Cross  C Ap.  No.  78.) . .     ib. 

» Seeil  (Ap.  No.  79.)  ..  447 

,  Plum  (A p.  No.  80.)  . .    ib. 

,  Bath  (Ap.  No.  65.)  ..  442 

Buroet  Vinegar,  has  the  laine 
taste  as  Cucumber,  399  . .  819 

-Do. Sauce, 264  ....  274 

Burgoo,  Scotch,  572* 419 

BoTLsn^s  DircNstions  for  dry- 
ing Herbs,  461    343 

Do.    do.     Pickles^ 

462 344 

¥'*         to  market  for  Vege- 
tables   418 

Bniier,Obs.  on  the  business 
of  a.  Note  to 33 

BoTTKR,    begt    manner  of 
melting,  ^S6  271 

-  ■    '    to  recover  when  oiled, 
256 ib. 

Clarified,  259 273 

Burttt,260 ib. 

. Oiled,  260* ib. 

Catholic  Familibs,  Cook- 
ery for,  224    210^243 

Cabbage,  118 189 

■  Boiled  and  Fried,  or 

Bubble  and  Squeak,  505, 376 

119,190 
Do.  do.  Tunt  of,  d05, 376 


Cakes,  Common  Seed  (A p. 

No.59.)   440 

,  Rich  Yeast  Do.  (Ap. 

No.  60.)   ••••..•••  441 

,  Queen  or  Heart  Do. 

(Ap.NaOl.) ib. 


ib. 
440 
45« 


Page 
Cakes,  Shrewsbury  Do.  (A  p. 

No.  63.)  442 

— ,  Banbury  Do.  (Ap.  No. 

64.) ib. 

- — ,  Savoy  or  Sponge  (Ap. 

No.  67.)  ••.....■•....,  443 

,  RatafiaDo.(Ap.No.71.)  444 

,  Almond    Sponge   Do. 

(Ap.  No.  72.) 445 

— — ,  Diet  Bread  Do.  (Ap. 

Mo.  t't»)    ..•..»....•..• 

,  Derby  or  Short  (Ap. 

fflQ*   \ii*/      .....a.  ......a 

• ,  Yorkshire    (Ap.    No. 

104.)    

Calf,  a  fatted,    preferred  to 
a  Starved  Turtle,  247  .  a  258 

Head  to  Boil,  10  ..«.  133 

Do.  Hash,  10 ib. 

Do.  Ragout,  580    ....  382 

Calf*»Head,MockTurUe,247  258 

Calf  Feet  Jelly,  481 354 

Camp  Vinegar,  403 320 

Carp  Stewed,  158 200 

Carrots,  129    198 

Soup,  212 237 

Carving,  best  rule -fbf...  ..    39 

Ancient  terms  of  . .    40 

■  Dr.  Trusler's  Book, 

teaching  the  art  of  ..... .     19 

Catsup  of  Mushrooms,  439  . .  834 

Dvoble  do.,  or  Dogsup  323 

of  Walnuts,  438    ....  333 

of  Oysters,  441 336 

of  Cockles,  442 337 

of  Cucumbers,  399  ..319 

Pudding,  446 337 

Caper  Stiuce,  274    276 

— — —  Mock,  275 ... .  277 

Capon  to  Roast,  58 150 

Capillaire,  476 352 

Caramel,  to  boil  Sugar  to, 

(Ap.  No.  85.) 440 

Cauliflower,  125 :. 191 

,  pickled  (Ap.No. 

122.)   470 

Caudle,572 418 

Cautions  to  Carvers 38 


476 


INDEX. 


Page 
Cayeone,  how  to  make,  No. 
404 321 

Bnenoe  of,  40$  . .  322 

Celery  Soiip,  214    238 

Sauce, 282, 200    ...  280 

— —  Seed,    8ul»titute  for 

Celery,  note   104 

Easeooe,  400    324 

Cbantilly  Basket,  (Ap.  No^ 

510---.* 437 

Cheap  Soup,  220 245 

Cheese  and  Toast,  538*,  530  303 

— • Toasted,  540 304 

r-  Buttered  ditto,  54 1       ib. 

■■■  ■        Pounded  or   Potted> 

542  ...4 ib. 

Cheesecakes  (Ap.  No.  40.)  434 
■        —  Lemoo      ditto 

(Ap.  No.  41.) ib. 

— ^ Orange      ditto 

(Ap.No.42.) ib. 

■  Almond     ditto 

(Ap.No  .43.) ^ 435 

Cherries,  Dried  (Ap.  Ko.05.)  452 

Chervil  Sauce,  264 274 

Chili  Vinegar,  405*   322 

^ Wne,405** ib. 

Chicken.    See  Fowl. 

Pie  (Ap.  No.  16.)..  426 

'  and    Ham    Patties 

(Ap.  No.  20.) 430 

Chops,  Mutton,  Pork,  Beef, 

toBroi),  02<fe03  ..  177,178 

toFry,85 i75 

toStew,400 365 

Heljsh  for,  423 328 

^,  Sauce  for>  356 i.  30 1 

Cionamon^  Essence  of,  416. .  826 

^  Tincture  of,  416*     ib. 

Claret,  best  Wine  for  Sauces, 

<&c 108 

ClariQed  Syrup,  475 351 

Clarify  Broth,  252* 268 

Clove  and  Mace,  Essence  of, 

414  , 326 

— — —  Tincture  of,  415    ib. 

Cockle  Catsup,  442 3.37 

Cod,  boiled,  140  .........  203 


Page 
Cod,  tbe  Tail  filleted,  Note 

under  No.  140     203 

Slices  boiled,  151  ....  205 

Skull  stewed,  158  ....  209 

— —  Shaved   and    sold   for 

Whitings,  Obs;  to,  153  ..  206 
Cold .  Meat,  to    broil    with 

Poached  EggS)  487 362 

—  Doi  to  warm  the  best 
way 53 

— -  Fish,  dittok 

Sauce  for,  453  ... .  338 

and  350i . . .  330, 307,  and  302 
--A—  Veal,  an  excellent  Dish 

of,  512... 4. .i 379 

Fowl,  ditto,  533     390 

Colouring    for     Soup     and 

Sauce»322  201 

— = a  frequent  Cause 

of  Adulteration,  322    ....    ib. 

Committee  of  Taste 3 

Consomme,  252 264 

Coffee)  to  make  -, 404 

Cooks,  friendly  advice  to    . .    43 

Hintsto  k 52 

-i-j DOk  when  they  have 

a  ver>'  large  Dinner    ....    60 
■'  Cause,  of  the  Scarcity     - 

of  good  ones    355 

■  deserve  good  Wages     1 1 

■  A  Manor  given  to  one 

by  William  the  Conqueror     10 

Obs.  concerning  their 

Health,  Note  to }5 

Cook^Teaser,  where  not  to 
put  him     b .. . . .    41 

Cooking  Animals,  dine  only 
once  a  month 4 

Cookery,  Descartes'  Obser- 
vations on    6 

Dr.  Johnson's  ditto      7 

,  Theory  of I 

—  Importance  of  ... .      0 

— Dr.  Stark   viil. 

-^— -  The  Analeptic   part 

of  Physic 5 

Dr.  Mandeville  ....    ixi 

^^ Arbuthnot  .  k . .  ^  ^ . .    ib, 


INDEX. 


477 


Page 

Cookery,  PufineDtier zii. 

1       I     Sylvester's  Obs.  on, 


Note  to 

best  Books  QD,  Note 


tu 


TbeoFy  of  the  Pro- 
cesses of,. from  the  Encyn 
clopiBd.  Brit. — Note  to  . . 
— r-^  List  of  200  Books  of 
Opinion  of  a  Cook  on 


8 


ib. 
19 


them., i..,.  ..,    23 

Coquus  JifagQus,  or  Master 

Kitcfainer ,     10 

Coulis,  or  Thickened  Gravy 

189 ,...  229 

Couptfapres ,  )07 

Crab,  to  boil,  177  ...,.,..  221 
Cray  Fish  Soup,  235     ..,..  218 

Ditto, .  pounded    alive, 

recommended    by   Mons. 

Clermont,  235 248 

Coals,  what  kind  produce  the 

greatest  Heat  .^ 75 

Cream,  clouted,  388  ....  .  315 
Cranberry  Tart  (Ap.  No.  37.)  432 
Croquante  of  Paste  (Ap.  No. 

86.) 449 

Cottage    Potatoe     Pudding 

(Ap.  No.  115.) 405 

Crisp  Parsley,  31 8 289 

Currant  Jelly,  470*    ,,  353 

Curry  Powder,  455 , .  •  339 

^^  Soup,  249  262 

Sayce,348 300 

B»Jh»,  382 314 

.r to  dress,  497 309 

Cura^oa,  how  to  make,  474    351 

Custard  Pudding , .  ^.  •  399 

CyderCup,465 348 

Culinary  Curiosities    24 

Crane  26 

Curlews  ^ ib. 

Cat-in-gely 27 

, Corks 122 

Cement  for  Sealing  Bottles  ib. 
Caw-Caw  Bones,  N.B.  to,  1  125 
CowpUeel,  to  dress,  18*  ..  142 
CresfSauce,  264    .,.,..,.  %H 


Pag9 
Cress  Viaegar,'No.  997»  . .  31$ 
Cucumber  Stewed,  135  ....  195 

Vinegar,  399,  462 

319,  344 
to  preserve   (Ap. 

No.98,)    4^4 

Carp,  to  Stew,  158 2()|9 

Charity,  the  greatest 14 

Crumpets  (Ap.  No.  103.)  . .  450 

Devil,  538 , 391. 

— —  his  Venison    . , 24 

-^— Sauoefor 301 

Biscuit,  574    4^0 

DuUaway's  Servant's  Moni- 
tor quoted    , 47 

Damson  Cheese  (Apf  No. 89.)  450 
Digestion,  bow  important . .  6 
Digester 264 

75 
173 


Dripping  Pan 

Dripping,  to  clarify,  83  ...  * 

Mrs.  Melroe    and 

Dr.  Stark's  Obs.  on,  83  .. 

Soup,  239 

Duck,  to  Roast,  61 


ib. 
250 
16^ 
297 


Bonne- Boucbe  for,  341 

to  Hash,  530  ., 3fi!8 

-P  Cold,  to  Warm,  535.. .  391 

^— Wild,  to  Roast,  74  ..170 
Dutch  Salad,  Obs.  to,  372  ..  307 
Dinner,  seven  chances  against 

its  beinfi;  properly  dressed       11 
— — —  Hints  for  preparing  a 
large,  p.  59,  60, — a  good 

one  for  5d.  204    934 

Invitation  to 29 

Importance  of  punc- 


tuality, the  only  act  which 
cannot  be  postponed  .... 
-,     Arrangement     of 


30 


Guests  at 34 

Rules  for  Behaviour 


at,  from  the  Accomplished 

Ladies' Delight 20 

Hints  for  providing       31 

Obs.     on     Second 


Courses,  c&c ib« 

Punishment  for   not 

being  punctual  at  . , . . ,  •    35 


» •  • » ? 


». 


1 


478 


IKOJUC. 


Page 
Dinner,  Boileau^s  Obi  .^  No.  3d 

—  Hintt  to  those  who 
dioe  out 40 

Bdsre-Bone    of    Beef,    see 
H-Bone,  8   132 

—  wayiof  Apelling^  8. .  ib. 
Education  of  a  Coolc  's  Tongue  6 1 
Eels  Stewed  Wiggy*s  way, 

164 214 

Pickled,  161 811 

-—Fried,  165 21S 

——  Pie  (Ap.  No.  22.)  ....  428 
Spitchcocked,  166  ...  215 

—  Soup,  226 245 

£ggSi  to  preserve  for  twelve 

Months,  see  N.B.  to,  547    402 

Sauce,  267  275 

—*— fried  wilh  Bacon,  545    400 

Ragout,  545» ib. 

— — ^  with  minced  Bacon,  549  402 

Poached,  546  ....... .  401 

^— ■  Do.  with  minced  Ham, 

548 402 

boiled  in  the  Shell,  547    ib. 

— —  Do.  for  a  Salad,  372. .  307 

Various  ways  of  dressing  383 

Egg  and  Ham  Patties  (Ap. 

No.  88.)  •...•.•.•..,..  450 
Epictetus,  a  Relish  for,  27  . .  147 

EshaUot  Sauce,  294 283 

. Vinegar,  401  ••..  319 

Wine.  402    320 

Essence  of  TurUe,  343 298 

of  Ham,  351 300 

^—  where  to  buy  it,  351    ib. 

^—  of  Mushrooms,  440  336 

of  Oysters,  44 1  ... .    ib. 

;  of  Anchovy,  433  ....  330 

■■  of  Cayenne,  405  •  • .     322 

Lemon  Peel,  407  . .  323 

^DJtto,  408 324 

of  Celeiy,  409   ... .     ib. 

— ^Ginger,  411    325 

Allspice,  412 ib. 

—  CIove,414 326 

~  Mace,  414. ib. 

—  Cinnamon,  416,...     ib. 

—  Marjoram,  417....     ib. 


Page 
Essence  Sweet  Herbs,  41 7*..  327 
Essence  Soup  Herbs,  No.  420    ib. 

Eshallot,402 320 

Soup  Herbs  and  Sa- 
voury Spice,  42a 327 

Punch,  471     350 

Epicure,  the  Editor^s  D^ni- 

tion  of.   Note,  4 

-  the  temperate  man 
the  greatest .,    ...        6 

Economy,  the  first  role  of 

comfortable,  Note 62 

Fawn,  65; 164 

Fenwd  and  Butter  for  Mack* 

arel,265 275 

Fish,  see  the  6th  Chapter  of 
Rudiments  of  Cookery  . .    96 

cold,  to  redress  ......    58 

— ^  fecundity  of 97 

how  to  market  for    ..411 

to  Stew,  158 209 

Do.  Ma  igre  Soup,  225..  245 

Do.do.Foroenieat,383  314 

Sauce,  425    328 

to  pickle,  161 211 

Foroemeat,  to  make,  373  . .  309 

,  Materials  used  ibr  ..  311 

for  Veal,  375 •^.  318 

for  Turkey,  377 313 

forGoose,378 ib. 

for  Hare,  379   ib. 

Balls,  for  Mock  Turtle 

and  Made  Dishes,  380  . .    ib. 

Eggdo.,381 314 

Curry  do.,  382  ... .'. .    ib. 

Zest,  <fec.,  386   ib. 

of    Fish    for   Maign 

Dishes,  383 4    ib. 

To  mix   Orange    and 

Lemon  Peel,  387   315 

Flip,  466 348 

Flounders;  155   ..* 207 

Fowls,  to  boil  one  half  and 

roast  the  other  at  the  same 

time 25 

to  Boil,  16 139 

:  to  Roast,  58  159 

^^toBroil,  97   ., 182 


INOiSX. 


479 


Page 
Fowls,  Hashed,  No.  633    . .  300 

:  Pulled,  434  ib. 

r  to  dress  Cold,  635  ...  •  391 

——-  Apiclus's  Saace  for,  .  •     28 

French  Beans,  133 194 

Pickled,  (Ap.  No.  U8.) 

469 
FrencbTart  ofPreseffed  Fruit 

(Ap.  No.d6.) 432 

rfiredd.and  Rolls,  (Ap. 

No.  100.)    4AS 

Froth  Roa,st  Jtfeat,  to,   ....     84 

Frogges  Fried 27 

Fare, Billof,fora  Week  ....  50 

Frying 8T 

Flavour,  agents  employed  to 
Soups  and  Sauces*   Note 

under • IfiO 

FlounderF,  Fried  or  Boiled, 

155 207 

Fdtteis,  558 409 

Fruit,  to  preserve,  without 

Sugar,  (Ap.  No. 99.)  ....  454 
Game,  to  render  immediately 

Bjpe  for  Roasting 58 

rSoup,  242.... 255 

Garlick  Vinegar,  409.  ••..  319 
■  ■    ..  .Sauce,  272.  >...>..  270 

— • — Gravy,3Il 288 

Giblets  Stewn(l,531    389 

Soup,  244 255 

: — Pie  (Ap.  No.  14.)  ..  425 

Gherkins,   (Ap.   No.  110.) 

468 
Gigotde  Sept  Heuis,  N.  B. 

to,  1 125 

Ginger,  Essence  of,  41 1  •  •  •  •  325 
-^'^^pre8erved(Ap.  No.97.)  453. 
GiDgeibreadNuts(Ap.No.76.) 

446 
Goose,  Dr.  Stork  says  c  is  the 
most  nutritive  food  ..•.«•  162 

»  to  Roast,  59  161 

Do.  Alive. .4 96 

-— —  to    persuade    one  to 

Roaithimself ! !    25 

—  how  the  Liver  is  fat- 
tened for  the  Strasbourg 
Pies.    In  Note  te,  59  ...  .161 


Pa/re 
Goose,  to  Hash,  No.  530  . .  388 

Green,  60 168 

Mock, 51 154 

Bonne  Bouche  for,  341  297 

—  Relish  for,34l    297 

Gourds,    various    ways    of 

dcessini^ ,..  414 

Gourmand    defined.   Note 

under .- 4 

Gourmandise,  to  guard  against    1 1 
Gooseberry  Sauce,  263  ....  274 
Gravy,  read  the  8th  Chap- 
ter of  the  Rudiments  of 
Cookery 

for  Poultry,   Ragouts 

<fi:c.,329    295 

Onion,290 285 

Gariick,  311 288 

Game,  337 296 

for  Wild  Duck,  338  ..  296 

Roasted  Meat,  326  . .   293 

Boiled,  327 294 

Wow  Wow  for  Salted 

or  Stewed  Beef,  328 ib. 

for  grills  and   Broils, 

<&c,355 300 

for Chops<fe  Steaks,  356  301 

"  Relish  for  Chops  and 

Steaks,  423 328 

—^  for  Cold  Meat  or  Poul- 
try, <&€.,  359 302 

Hashes  of  Mutton,  ^., 

360 ib. 

Do.  Veal,  361  303 

rfor  Venison,  of  Wine, 

*l4v  .......... .  a^i.  ....  899 

". —  Vinegar,  345 ib. 

for  Venison,  of  Currant 

Jelly,  246 ib. 

of  Mutton,  347 ib. 

brown  colourlngfor,  322  201 

PorUble,252 264 

.-Soup,  200 233 

Vegetable  do.,  224  ..  243 

Green  Pease,  134 194 

Soup,  216 938 

Maigredo.,  217 239 

Green  Ck^^,    preserved   in 

Syrup  <^  No.  96^ 46% 


480 


INDBX. 


Grill  Sauce,  No.  355      ....  300 

Gn>ose,73 170 

Grae],  Water,  variaus  ways 
of  making  and  flarouring, 

Guinea  Fowl,  60 ^ .  •  1 60 

Glassp,  Mrs.  her  Coolceiy  . .      7 

Gridiron 90 

Haddock,  157  ..•• 208 

FindliorD  do.,  157*  ...     ib. 

Haggies,  a  good  Scotch,  488*  363 

Ham,  to  Boil,  14    137 

— rtoPot,509 378 

.Slices  of  Broiled,  526      385 

— ^  EssPDce  of,  351     300 

■         where    to    buy    ditto, 

351.. ib. 

Hare»  Roast,  66 165 

Jugged,  529* 3W 

rSoup,  241 254 

Mock,  66*.... ,.   166 

Hasbed,529 386 

Pie,  (Ap.  No.  11.)...  424 

flarricot,  of  Mutton,  Lamb/ 
Veal, or  Beef, 480  ......  363 

i of  Beef,  495  .......  368 

Hashes,  MattoD^  484 360 

—  —to warm  up, 485    . - •  •  361 

Beef,  486 ib. 

Hashes^  Veal,  511  378 

. Venison,  528 386 

Cold  Calf's  head,    519  382 

r  Ditto,  10 134 

Calf's  -  head,    or    Ra- 
gout, 520 382 

Hare,  629 386 

. Duck  or  Goose,  530..  388 

Poultry,  Game,  or  Rab- 
bit, 533    390 

— :  Sauce  for,  ,360  302 

Haunch  ^See  H-)  Bone  of 

Beef, .8 132 

Herbs,  when  and  how  to  dry^ 

461 343 

Herrings,  pickled,  171  217 

— y-bjoiled,J7l* 218 

— -  Jled  ditto,  172 ib. 

Horseradish  Powder,  458*..  341 
- — Vinegar, 399*...,.....  319 


Housekeeping,  plan  of 
Book , 


.    16 
.    ib. 


II 


«T 


431 


Horse  powdered 27 

Hill,   Dr.    Author   of   Mrs. 

Glasse's  Cookery  .......      7 

Hanger,    Col.    quoted,    bis 

Hints  for  guarding  against 

"  la  Gourmandise,"  Note 
Hudson,  the  Dwarf,    served 

up  in  a  Pie •• 

Icing  for  Fruit  t'arts,  (fee. 

(Ap.  No. 31.) 

for  Twelfth  Cake  (Ap. 

No.  84.) 448 

Indigestion 32 

Remedy  for   ....    33 

Lozenges  for    ...    ib. 

Invitations,  bow  to  send ....    35 

"  to  answer ib. 

Indian,  or  Mixed  Piokle,  (Ap. 

No.123.) 471 

Independence,  the  Road  fo  65 
Joclcey,  bow  to  waste  ■  . . .  St23 
Italian  Salad,  ^ee  Obs.  to, 

372 307 

Cieam  (Ap.  No.  48.). .  439 

r  Macaroons    (Ap.    No. 

70.)... 444 

Irish  Stew,  Mrs.  Phillips's, 

488 362 

Do.  Mr.  Morrison's,  4^8    ib. 

Jack,  to  diess,  158 209 

JeUy, Oz-heel,  198 232 

Jacks,Obs.  on 7^ 

JeUy,  Calf  VFeet,  481 354 

-^ —  of  Currants  and   othw 

Fruits,  479* 363 

Jerusalem  A  rtichQke<r,  117..  189 
JoHN80M*9  Braudy  and  Li- 
queues,  471  350 

JoH  vso V,  Dr.  quoted 7 

Kay,  Mr.  of  Albion-House 

Wines,  <&c.  Qbs.  to,  94  . .  ISO 
Turtle,    &c.  Note  at 

foot  of 263 

Kelly's  Sauce  for  Calf-head 

or  Cow-heel,  31  !•    9M 

Do.  for  Sauce  /»- 

^uan^f, 311*  ....^.t.r*«*  ^^ 


IND£X. 


481 


Page 
Kid  4o  RoHSt,  No. 65*    ....  166 

Kidneys  to  Broil,  96  .......  181 

Kitctien-Muid^  business  of  a    15 
Kitchen-Fire-place,  best  Or- 

nainents-  for ...•..•««..      68 
— Chitnney  should  be 

swept  often    <54 

Utensils 100 

Kitchiner,  Dr.  quoted,  572, 

and  Note,  under   21 

LiPfi,  THB  Art  of  Invioo- 

RATiNO  and  Prolonging,  by 

the  Autbur  of  this  Work, 

published   by   Hurst  and 

Robinson,  90,  Cheapside    Till 

Lamb,  to  Broil,  a    126 

to  Roast,  40 151 

Sham  Lamb  do.,  40  . .  152 

Hind  Quarter,  41....    ib. 

Fore  Quarter,  42   ... .     ib. 

*-Leg,43..-. ib. 

Shoulder,  44 ib. 

to  Goosefy   do.   Note 

to,5I .' 154 

Ribs,  45 153 

—  Loin,  46 ib. 

• Neck,  47 ib. 

Breast,  48 ib. 

Chops.  92 177 

Shoulder  grilled,  491..  3«5 

r  Lamb's  Fry,  49^   ..•.     ib. 

Larders,  proper    55 

Larks,  80   172 

Lister,    Airs.,   Leg  of  Beef 

Soup.    See  Shin  of  Beef 

Soup 
Lemon  Chips  (Ap.  No.  94.)  452 

. Syrup,  391  316 

Sauce,  273  ,* 276 

Jiace,artificinl,407»  323 

Lemon  and  Liver  Sauce,  287  281 

Peel  Essence,  407  . .  323 

Quintessence  do.  408  324 

Tipcture  do.  408*  . .     ib. 

Lemonade  in  .a  minute,  477  352 

Liqueurs,  47 1    . .  ^ , 99, 350 

Liver  of  a  Goose.    See  Note 

under  59   161 


Page 
Liver <fePaisleySauce,No.287  281 

Do.  for  Fish,  288  ... .  282 

Lobster,  to  Roast,  82 172 

toBoil,l76    -. 220 

r- Sauce,  284 279 

Sauce  for  Lobster, 285  280 

Soup,  237   249 

Potted,  178   221 

Patties  (Ap.  No.  27.)  430 

Salad,  372 307 

Spawn    to  preserve, 

N.B.to,  284    280 

Liquamen  of  the  Romans  . .     28 
Lacedsmon,  Bkck  Broth  of  .  ib. 

— ; Do.  Sauce  ....     ib. 

Maccaroni,  543    395 

Soup,  see  Obs.  to,  200    233 

Mackarel,  Boiled,  167   216 

Broiled,  169 217 

Baked,  170   ....     ib. 

■  Pickled,  171 ib. 

Roe  Sauce,  266     275 

Made  Dishes,  Obs.  on,  see 

9th  Ch^lp.  of  Rudiments  of 
Cookery 

Economical  do.,  483      356 

Magazine  of  Taste 63 

Maiors     Cookrrt.       See 

Preface  to  the  Fifth  Edition  xviii 
Maigre  Forcemeat,  383  ...  314 

Plum  Pudding,  554  ..  406 

Mandoviile,  Dr.  quoted,  Pre- 
face       ix 

Manners,  the  importance  of 

good 37 

Marjoram,  Essence  of,  417      326 

Marrow  Bones,  544    400 

Meat,  Soup  from  any  boiled     72 
Melroe,  Mrs.,  her  Economi- 
cal Cookery,  quoted,  83. .  173 
Melted  Batter,  256,  27 1    . .  269 

Minced  Collops 363 

Mince  Pies  (Ap.  No.  38.)  . .  433 

Meat  (Ap.  No.  39.)  . .     ib. 

Mint  Sauce,  303  286 

Vinegar,  398 dl8 

Mock  Turtle  Soup,  247  . .   .  258 
do.  do.  by  £.  Lister,  245  257 


482 


IKDSX* 


Page 
Mille  Feailles  (Ap.  No.  44.)    435 

IfoorGame,  72 ITO 

Morels,  Obs.  on 109 

Mulled  Wine,  Aromatic,  Es- 
sence for,  413   325 

Mustard,  to  make,  370  ....  306 
—  where  to  buy,  N.B.  to, 

369 306 

— —  Do.  in  a  minute.  369      ib. 

Do.  to  keep,  427 388 

Seed  Oil   466 

Manners,  barbarous,  of  the 

16thCentur>' 20 

«— good    ellects  of  good 

19,20,39 

bad  effects  of  bod  ....     39 

Measures,  Glass  ones 22 

Meat,  how  long  it  must  hang 

to  be  tender   67 

if  frozen ib. 

killing  it  by  Electricity 

makes  it  tender  immediately    58 

Marketing  61 

Best  Rule  for ib. 

Ditto 54 

Markbtino    T.ablbs,    for 

Meat 408 

Poultry 410 

Fish ^...  411 


'  Vegetables 412 

Meat  Skreen 82 

Meat  Cakes.  504* 375 

Musician,  Epitaph  on  a  ... .     96 
Mutton,  to  Boil  a  Leg,  1    . .  125 

Neck, 2 126 

Mutton,  23 146 

Roast  a  Leg,  24 147 

_!_.  Do.  Saddle,  26 ib. 

Shoulder,  27 ib. 

Loin,  28 ib. 

Neck,  29 148 

Breast,  30 ib. 

—  —Haunch,  31 ib. 

Do.  Venison  feshion,  32    ib. 

—  orVealPie(Ap.No.lO.)  423 

Chops,  92 177 

Do.  Stewed,  No.  490. .  365 

^—  Bfotb,No.294, 564,23 1 ,  415 


Pace 
Mutton  Mock,  No.  195  ....  232 
Mutton,  to  Hashp  484    ....  360 

-^— >  Harrico, 480 

—  MuUagatawny    Soap, 

262 
287 
ib. 
ib. 
334 
336 


249 
Mushroom  Sauce,  305    .... 

. Do.  Brown,  306. . 

»■               Extempore,  307. . 
■                 Catsup,  439  .... 
■     ..Quintessence,  440 
Marrow  Bones,  544    400 

-  I      Vegetable    .......  401 

Muffins  (Ap.  No.  102.)  ....  456 

Musical  Epitaph     96 

Music  of  Bubble  and  Squeak  505 
Nutmeg,  Tincture  of,  413*  325 
..  ■         Grater,  the  best ....    67 

Omeletts,543* ,..396 

Onion,  Obs.  on    103 

Pickled  (Ap.  No.  121.)  470 

Stewed,  137   196 

Young    Onion  Sauce, 

296 284 

—  Saooe,297 284 

Whitedo.,  298 ib. 

Omelettes  Brown,  299  28.5 

Sage  and  Onion,  300     286 

Orange  Jelly  (Ap.  No.  47.)     436 

— —  Gingerbread  (Ap.  No. 

75.) ^  445 

Orgeat  ( Ap.  No.  8 1 .) 447 

Ox-oheek  Stewed,  507 377 

Portable  Soup  of,  252. .  284 

Ox-Tails  Stewed,  508 378 

Ox-Head  Soup,  239   258 

Ox-Tail  Soup,  240 25i 

Ox-Heel  Jelly,  198 232 

Do.  Soup,  240* 253 

Oysters,  how  to  feed  and  to 
preserve  their  lives,  and 
how    to   tickle    them  to 

death,  181      222 

<— —  certainly  not  so  nutri- 
trive   as   supposed,   N3.   • 

to,181 225 

Natives,  those  that  are 

bom  and  bred  in  the  Bum- 
ham  Rivers,  Note  to,  181     224 


INDXX. 


483 


Page 
Oysters,  Essence  of.  No.  441  396 

Scalloped  ,182   226 

Stewed,  182*    ib. 

Fried,  183 226 

Sauce,278 27T 

— ^  preserved  in    Powder^ 

280  ••••   •• 278 

Patties  (Ap.No.'260'*  429 

Osborne,  H.  Cook  to  Sir  J. 

Banks xiv^  47 

Do.  his   Receipts  for 

Puddings,  <&c.,  560 409 

Oatmeal,  a   Substitute  for 

Bread-Crumbs 32 

Pancakes,  558 409 

Paregoric  Elixir,  570 418 

Pharmacopoeia,  Appendix  to    zii 
Parmentier,  quoted,  Preface    zii 
Parsley  and  Butter*  261 ... .  273 
to  preserve,  N.B.  to, 

261 274 

Fried,  317 289 

Crisp,  318 ib. 

Partridges,  70 169 

Soup,24l    254 

Paste  for  Croquants,  or  Cut 

Paistry  (Ap.  No.  8.)    ....  423 
Paste  for  Meat,  or  Savoury 

Pies  (Ap.  No.  2.)   421 

Paste  for  Boiled   Puddings, 

(Ap.No.  6.) 422 

for  stringing  Tartlets, 

<fec.  (Ap.  No.  7.) 422 

Pease,  to  Boil,  134 194 

Pudding,  555 408 

—  how  to  make  for  half 

*the  usual  expense,  Note  to 

,'i6S ib. 

Soups,  218, 220 . .  239,  241 

Do.  in  five  minutes,  555  408 

Curry  Pease  Soup,  Note 

241 

Celery  do.  do.  218  ...  240 

Plain  Pease  Soup,  221    242 

Parsnips,  128   ..» 192 

Peristaltic  Persuaders 32 

Peptic  Precepts  quoted    ....    ib. 


to,  218. 


Page 

Pea  Powder,  No.  458 341 

Perch,  Fried,  159 211 

Boiled,  160     211 

Stewed,158    209 

Pheasant,  68    167 

Mock  do.,  69     169 

— ^Criterion  of  its  being 

'* assez  mortifiek,'' m    ..168 

Pickles 466 

— -Obs.on,462 344 

Pounded 460 

wholesome     substitute 

for 460 

Pigeons,  Roast,  78 171 

toBroil,98    182 

or  Lark  Pie,  (Ap.  No. 

13.)  .^ 424 

Pig,  Sucking,  6Q  6 

Petit-toes,  or  Sucking  Pig's 

Feet,  12 136 

Piquante  Vinegar,  453  ....  339 

Plaice,  Fried,  155 207 

Plain  Pound  Cake,  (Ap.  No. 

57.)  ..   440 

Plum  Pudding,  553 405 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce,  269  . .  275 
Pound  Cake,  Up.  No,  58.)    440 

Poached  Eggs,  546 401 

Poor  Man's  Sauce,  310 288 

Poor,  Soup  for,  229, 245    ..128 
Papin,  Dr.,  his  Digester. . . .  264 

Preserving  Pans    ......     93 

Pork,  the  Season  for  it,  and 

the  Accompaniments,  (fee.        , 

49    153 

to  Roast  a  Leg,  50   . .  154 

to  Boil  do.,  U    135 

to  Roast  without  the 

Skinon,51 154 

Mock  Goose,  51    f...    ib. 

to  Lambify  the  Leg  of  a 

Pork  ling,  see  Note  to  5  i        ib. 

•- Griskin,  52 ib. 

Sparerib,  53   ib. 

Loin,54 155 

Chine,  55 iV 

to  Salt  Pork,  6  ....^^  .^9 


t  2 


484 


INDBX. 


Pasre 
Pork,  to  boil  Pickled,  No.  1 1  1 35 

how  to  score  tifter  you 

have  boiled  it,  11    


Pork  Chops  to  Fry,  ^3 
SausajreSi  8T  . . . 


..  135 
..  178 
..   175 

Poivrade  Sauctt,  365   305 

Portable  Soup,  252     264 

Pot-top  best  Fat  for  frying, 

Obs.to  83    173 

Liquor     50 

to  convert  into  Pease 

Soup  in  five  minutes,  555    408 
Potatoes,  1 6  ways  of  dressing, 

102    184 

to  re-dress  Cold  Pota- 
toes, 102*    185 

- —  Boiled  and  Broiled,  103  1 86 

Fried  in  Slices,  104   ..    ib. 

— —  Fried  whole,  105   ....    ib. 

Mashed,  106 ib. 

Do.  with  Onion,  107. .  187 

Scalloped,  108   ib. 

— ^Roasted,  109 ib. 

tinder  Meat,  110   ....    ib. 

Balls,  111    188 

Savoury,  112 ib. 

. Snow,  114 ib. 

Gipsey  Pie,  115 ib. 

New,  116 189 

Mucillage,   or  Starch, 

448 337 

Flour 338 

ColcannoB,  108»    ....  187 

Potted   Beef,  Veal,  Game, 

<fec.,  503 873 

■  Veal,  Game, 

&c.  why  in  season  at  the 
same  time  as  Mock  Turtle, 

Note  under,  247 285 

Potted  Ham,  <fec.,  509    ....  378 

Prawns,  175    220 

Poultry,  to  render  immedi- 
ately ripe  for  Roasting  .  •     58 

Marketing   Tables  for  410 

Puddine,  My,  554 406 

Pium,553 405 

Do.  do.  Sauce  for,  289    275 

-^ —  Suet  551 405 


Page 
Pudding,  Yorkshire,  No.  552  405 

—  Pease,  665 408 

Maocaroni,  54i 395 

Batter 410 

■        Bread  and  B  utter,  boiled 

and  baked,  557    409 

Boston  Apple 410 

Spring  Fruit ib. 

Nottingham   lb. 

Newmarket, 41 1 

Newcastle  or  Cabinet    ib. 

Vermicelli  ......  ...    ib. 

Bread ib. 

Custard   j.. 4U 

Boiltidditto    ib. 

College,  (Ap.No.  105.)  461 

— —  Rice,  Baked  or  Bouea,  456 

Ground    456 

Save-all  Pudding,  (Ap.  No. 

110.) 465 

Puddings  and  Pies,  Obs.  on     452 

Pudding  Catsup,  446 33T 

Puff  Paste,  (Ap.  No.  1 .)    ...  421 
Pulled  Turkey,  Cbicken,  <fec. 


534 


390 


Punch  directly,  478 352 

- — Essence  of,  471   350 

Do.  to  make,  479  ....  352 

Purger  souvent  les  Cuisiniers 

(de  la  necessity) 16 

Pig's  Pettitoes.  12 136 

Politeness,  anoeint  rules  for. 

Note    20 

Porpus 2j 

Pie,  Jeffpry  Hudson,  served 

up  in  one 2T 

Provisions,   how  to  procure 

thebest    62,  409 

Pepper,  Obs.  on 106 

Double-headed  Boxes       67 

Queen's  Drops  (Ap.  No.  62.)  441 

Qnin's  Sauce,  425 328 

Ditto,   Obs.    on  Ann- 

Chovy's  Marriage,  in  Note 

to  433 331 

Rabbit,  Roast,  67    16T 

^Boiled,  17  146 


ItfDEX, 


485 


Rabbit,  Broiled,  No.97  ...•  182 

Soap,  241     264 

. Pie(Ap,  No.  IT.)  ....  486 

aWelcb,539 393 

Ragout  Beef,  see  Obs.  to  493  366 

Sauce,  329 295 

^ —  Savoury  Powder,  467     340 

1  Quiotessenceof  do.,460  342 

of  Poultry,    to  dress, 

530» 889 

Breast  of  Veal,  517  ..  3^9 

Raised  Pies  (Ap.  No.  5.)  422 

■       French  Pies   (Ap.  No. 

18.) 426 

Ham  Pie  (Ap.  No.  19.)  427 

Pork  Pie  (Ap.  No.  21.)  428 

—  Lamb  Pie  (Ap.  No.  23.)     ib. 
Raspberry  Vinee^ar,  390  . . .  315 

Wine  or  Braody,  469. .  350 

Jam  (Ap.  No.  92.)....  451 

Red  Cabbage  pickled,  (Ap. 

No.120.) 470 

Rhubarb,  various    ways    of 

dressing   399 

Rice  Blancmange  463 

Pudding 462 

GroHHd  ditto ib. 

Sauce,  321*    291 

Snowballs 463 

Ripe  Fruit  Tarts  fAp.  No. 

30.) 431 

Roasting.  See  the  2d  Chap- 
ter of  tbe  Rudinients  of 

Cookery   ......;.. 78 

Robert  Sauce  for  Pork  and 

Geese,  342   298 

Ro^-Boat  do.,  see  Obs.  to  do. 
Rouge,  see  Obs^  to  433  ....  330 
Roux,  see  Obs.  to  257    ....  272 
Rump  Steak  Broiled, 94. . . .  179 
Stewed,500 369 

—  Do.  with  Onion  Gravy, 
501  370 

Do.  Pie  (Ap.  No.  15.)  425 

Romans  ate  five  Meals  a  day    27 

—  their  favourite  Disb^s    ib. 

—  Liquamen  and  Ganini    28 


Page 
Sack  PaSSetf   Sir  P.  Sbefp- 

herd's,  No.  467* 349 

Sage  and  Ortion  Sauce,  300  286 
Sally  Lunn  Tea  Cakes  (Ap. 

No.  101.) 455 

Salt,  to  prepare  for  table^  37 1  307 

Salt  Fish,  150 204 

Salting  Meat,  6 129 

to  make  it  Red,  6  . . . .     ib. 

to  make  it  Savoury,  6    ib. 

to  Pickle  Meat 130 

Sandwiches,  504 375 

Save-all  Pudding,   (Ap.  No. 

Scotch  Haggles,  488* 363 

Collops,5l7* 381 

do.  Minced 35 1 

Gravy,  see  Obs.  to  326    293 

Brose,  205»    236 

Barley  Brolh,  204    ...  234 

■         Jseei     ..........     o.   1"^ 

Soups,  205    236 

Winter   Hotch  Potch, 

205  ib. 

Leek  Soup,  or  Cocky 

Leeky,  205    ib. 

Lamb  Stew,  295    ....     ib. 

Salads^  Evelyn's  Directions 

about,  138  &  372. .  197  &  307 
Dutch,  Italian,  French, 

drc.  Obs.  to,  372 307 

Sauce,    372    <k    453; 

307  &  339 

Salmon  Pickled,  161   211 

BoiIed,162 212 

Broiled,  163 ?13 

Saocb,  before    you    make, 

read  the  8th  Chapter  of 

Rudiments  of  Cookery    . .  115 
Savcb  Anchovy,  270  ......  276 

Apple, 304.. 236 

Basil  Vinegar  or  Wine 

397    -,* 318 

Do.  when  to  dry,  461 . .  343 

Balls  fGt  Mock  Turtle, 

380 313 

Bechamel,  364   304 


Y3 


486 


INDEX. 


Page 
Sauce,  Bottled  Oyster  Sauce, 

N0.27S    277 

Beef  Gravy  for  Poultry, 

329   ^296 

•— —  Bonne    Bouche   for   a 

Goose«341    297 

Bread,  321 290 

Browning,  322 291 

Butter,  melted,  256  . .  271 

Burnt,  ditto,  260   ...,  273 

Clarified,  ditto,  259    . .     ib. 

Oiled,  ditto,  260*  ....     ib. 

to  Recover,  256 271 

Catsup  of  Mushrooms, 

439   334 

ofWalDuts,  438....  333 

Oj-sters,44l    336 

'    '  Cockles,  cfec 337 

for  Puddings,  446  . .     ib. 

Camp  Vinegar,  403  . .  320 

Caper,2r4 276 

Catsup,  Cockle,  442  . .  337 

Celery,289 282 

Do.  Brown,  290    282 

Chervil,  264   274 

Chili  Vinegar,  405 322 

Crisp  Parsley,  318 280 

Cucumber,  135 195 

Curry,  348 ,.  300 

Egg  Snuce,  267 275 

Essence  of  Turtle,  348    298 

of  Ham,  351    300 

of  Mushrooms,  440      336 

— of  Oysters,  44 1  ... .     ib. 

Cayenne, 405... f...  922 

Ancbov7,433 330 

Lemon  Pee),  407    ..  323 

Quintessence  do,  408  324 

Celery,  409    ib. 

Ginger,  411    325 

Allspice,  412 ib. 

Clove,  414 326 

• Mace,   ib ib. 

Essence  of  Cinnamon, 

ib. 

of  Soup  Herbs,  420      327 

Sauce,   of  Soup  Herb,   and. 

Savour^'  Spice,  422 325 


416 


Sauce,  of  Shallot,  No.  402 
of  Punch,  479 


Pag» 
200 
352 

,  283 
319 


—  Eshallot  Sauce,  294  .. 

—  Do.  Vinegar,  401  .... 
—>  Fennel  and  Butter  for 
Mackarel,  &c.  ,265 275 

—  Pish  Sauce,  425 425 

—  Forcemeat,   to   make, 
306 


373 


Ballsfor  Mock  Turtle, 


3S0   313 

Egg  Balls,  381   ....  614 

— »        Curry  do,  382    ....  ib. 

Fish  Forcemeat,  383  ib. 

Zest  do.,  286 ib. 

for  Veal,  375     312 

to  mix  Orange  or  Le- 


mon Peel,387    315 

—  Gravy,  for  Poultry,  Ra- 
gouts, &c.,  329   295 


for  Came,  337 
Grayy  for  Wild  Duok, 


338 


ofQniop,299  .... 
of  Garlick,311  .... 
for    Roasted    Meat, 


326 


296 

ib. 
285 
289 

329 
294 


—for  Boiled,  327   

■ Wow  Wow  for  Boiled 

Beef,328 ib. 

— Wine,  see  Venison, 


344 


345 


Vinegar  for  Venison, 


299 


ib. 


356 


Mutton   ....   .....    ib. 

forGrUls,  355     ....  300 

Chops    and    Steaks, 

301 

Cold  Meat  or  Poul- 
try, 359    302 

— -  Hashes  of  Mutton,  &c., 

360,451  1 302 

of  Veal,  361 303 

—  Relish  for  Chops,  423    328 


Gooseberry  Sauce,  32«  274 

Garlick  do,  272 276 

Do.  Gravy,  311,     ....  283 

— —  Do.  Vinegar,  400  ....  319 


INDEX. 


487 


•  Sauce,  Kelly,  M.  for  Calf's 
head    or    Cow-heel,    No. 

311*     

. Do.   Sauce    piguante, 

811*....   

— —  Lemon,  Syrup  of,  391, 

Lemonade  in  a  minute. 

4T7    

Lemon  Sauce,  273    . . . 

Ditto,    and    Liver,    or 

Parsley  and  Liver  Sauce, 

287 

Liver  Sauce  for  Fish, 

288   

.    Lobster  Sauce,  284    .  • 

Sauce  for  Lobster,  285 

Maciiarel-roe    Sauce, 


Page  1 


289 

ib. 
316 

356 
272 


281 

282 
279 
280 


266 275 

Mintdo.,303 286 

Do.  Vinegar,  398 318 

Mushroom  Sauce,  305   287 

Do.  Brown,  306    .... 

Do. in  five  minutes,  307 

Mustard  to  make,  370 


ib. 

ib. 
306 

ib. 
328 


Do.  in  a  ftiinute,  369. . 

—  Do.  to  keep,  427   .... 

Oysiei  Sauce, 278. .•  •  277 

Bottled  do.,  280    ....  278 

Onion  Sauce,  297  ....  284 

Do.  TKTbite,  for  Rabbits, 

<fec.,298 ib. 

Young  Onions,  296   . .     ib. 

Fried  or  Brown  Onion 

Sauce,    299 285 

Sage  and  do.,  309 286 

Ox-heel  Jelly,  198. .. .  232 

Parsley  and  Butter,  261  273 

Do.  Fried,  317 289 

Do.  crisp,  318    ib. 

Pea  Powder,  458 341 

Pickles,  462   ,.  344 

Piquante  Vinegar,  458    339 

Plum-pudding    Sauce, 

269   275 

Poivrade  Sauce,  365  . .  305 

Poor  Man\Sauce,  310  288 

^.Potatoe  Macilage,  448   337 

Ragout  Sauce,  329    . .  205 


Page 
Sauce,  Ragout  Powder,  No. 

457  340 

— —  Quintessence    of    Ra- 
gout Powder,  460    342 

Rice  Sauce,  329     290 

Sage  and  Onion  Sauce, 

300 286 

Salad  Mixture,  372   ..  307 

Salad  Sauce,  453   * . . .  339 

—  Sauce  Superlative,  429  329 

Sauce-Box,  463 60,  34« 

Savoy  Biscuits  ( Ap.  No.  69.)  444 

Savoys,  120 190 

Savoury  Salt  Beef,  496 368 

Pies,  Pasties,  <fec.  (Ap. 

Soup  herb  Powder,  or  Vege- 
table Relish,  459 362 

Shallot  Sauce,  294,  295 283 

Wine,  402 320 

Shrimps,  Potted,  175 220 

Shrimp  Sauce,  283 279 

Shrub,  479 352 

Small  Puffs  of  Preserved  Fruit 

(Ap.No.36.) 432 

Snipes,  77 J71 

Soda  Water,  Obs.  on,  S&ie  to     3 1 

Sorrel  Sauce,  291 282 

Sponge  Biscuits  (Ap.  No.  66.)  443 

Sprouts,  121  190 

Sparerib  of  Baepn,  to  Roast^ 

53    154» 

Spices,  Obs.  on, 329 

Soup-berh  and  Savoury  Pow* 

der,460 342 

Spirit,  420,421,422..  327 

Spinage,  122 190 

Soup -herb,      or     Vegetable 

Relish,  459 342 

Stock,  tirst,  Note  to,  185  . ..  227 

second,  Note  to,  185  ..  22i 

Stuifing,  373 309 

for  Hare,  379 313 

Goose,  37B ib. 

-. Turkey,377 ib. 

for  Veal,  374 313 

Suet  Pudding,  551 30il 

Syrup,  Clarified,  475 351 


483 


INDEX. 


Page 
8yrap  of  Lenon  Peel,  No. 

303 316 

of  Lenon,  391    • ib. 

Orange,  392 ib. 

SUunacb,  an  Bnglishman's 
Cooldng  Kettle,  Dr.  Han- 
ter'8  0bs.0D,  Waterhonse 

do.  Note 1 

Stomach  the  Machinery  of 

Life 4 

Dr.  Cbeyne'f  Obs.  on, 

Abernethy,  do T 

Stomachic  Tinctuie,  369 ....  417 
Spectacles  for  Gknirmands  . .  10 
Spring  Fhiit,  various  ways  of 

dressing   412 

Sprats,  to  Broil,  170* 218 

to  Pickle,  171    217 

toJStew,  170** 218 

to  Fry,  173    219 

Store  Sauces xv. 

Servants,.  Maid,  Expenses  of     12 
The  Rev.  Wm.  Wat- 
kins'  excellent  Institution 
for  the  Encouragement  of      14 

Friendly  Advice  to  ...     43 

Dalhiway^s  Monitor  • .     47 

— —  Maxims  for ib. 

Swan 26 

Seals    ib. 

Skate,  148 203 

Soups,  under  the  name  of  the 
article  they  are  made  of. 

Soup,  Obs.on 100 

. Cheap 103 

and  Bouilli,  238 260 

Steaks,  85,  04 175,179 

Stewpan 92 

Suet,  to  clarify  for  frying, 

&C.84 174 

-<.^  Puddings    459 

Smith,  his  Lozenges 32 

Sausages,  to  fry,  87    175 

Sweetbread,  to  fry,  8S   ....   176 

Do.  plain,  89 ib. 

Sweet,  or  Short  and  Crisp 

Tart  Paste  (Ap.  No.  4.)  421 
Sea  Kale,.  No.  124  . « 191 


4  Pafna 

Soles,  to  boil,  144  199 

•    — lofry,  145 200 

•-^-  to  stew,  146, 158, 164; 

203,299,214 

filleted,I47 203 

Skate,  fried,  154 206 

Sturgeon,  152 205 

Tart  Paste  (Ap.  No.  3.). . . .  421 

Tartlets  (Ap.  No.  34.) 432 

Taste,    the   Committee    of, 

Preface   x 

TiiSTE,   the    Magazine   of, 

463 64,3« 

Taste,  varieties  of  ...  48,  &c. 
Tastes,  six  simples,  Note  ..  51 
Tammis,  Note  to,  189    ....  230 

Tankard,  cool,  464 348 

Tarragon  Sauce,  264  . ... . .  274 

Viuegar,  396 317 

Tea,  to  make,  550 403 

Tender,  to  make  Meat    ....    57 

Tewahdiddle,  467 348 

Thickening,  or /loirx,  257..  272 

Do Ill 

Toast  and  Water,  463*  ....  347 
Toast  and  Cheese,  539  . .   .393 

Toasted  Cheese,  540 394 

Tomata  Sauce,  292 283 

—  Mock  do.  293    ib. 

Tongue,  to  boil,  15    J3S 

r-^  what  the  Routs  arc 

good  for,  see  Obs.  to,  15      139 
Tooth-aeb,  Cure  for,  567   ..417 

Tripe,  18..... 141 

Trifle  (Ap.  No.  49.)    437 

Trusler,  Domestic  Manage- 
ment      47 

Truffles,  Obs.  on 109 

Turbot,toboil,  140 198 

Turkey  to  boil,  16 139 

to  fatten  and  whiten, 

16 139 

Roast,57   157 

r-  Hasb,  <fec.  533    ....  390 

Pulled,534    it. 

Turnips,  130   193 

'  to  mash,  131 ib. 

Turnip- tops,  1 32 ib. 


INDEX. 


489 


Page 
Turnip  Soup,  No.  213    ••••  2d3 

TurUe,  to  dress,  250 263 

~  at  Albion  Housb, 


Aldersgate-Street,  Note  to, 
Z60 

.  Mock  do,  247,  &c..  - 

Birch's  do.,  excellent. 


363 

258 


note  under,  347 ib. 

Mock  mock  do.  245    257 

Englisli,  248     262 

Sauce,  343.": 298 

Essence,  343* 298 

i  Hints  to  Turtle  Eaters, 

Obs.tD,493 366 

2500  pounds  of,  eaten 


at  one  Dinner,  250 263 

Twelfth  Cake  (Ap.  No.  5S)    438 
Vauxhall  Neotar,  to  imitate,  . 

480    354 

Veal,  to  broU,  4 126 

to  roast,  33 149 

Fillet,  34    ib. 

Loin,  35     150 

.  Shoulder,  36 ib. 

Neck,  best  end,  37 ...  •    ib. 

bieast,38    ib. 

Sweetbread^  30 151 

.Cuaet,90    176 

—i-  Do.  Sauce  for,  00  ....  177 

Do.  full  dressed,  521  . .  383 

Broth,  191 230 

Gravy,  192 ib. 

Knuckle  Soup,  103    .  •     ib. 

Stuffing,  Roger  Fow- 

tor's,  374 312 

Forcemeat,  375 ib. 

Breast  Stewed,  515    ..  379 

—^  Minced,  511    378 

— -Hashed,  511* 378 

Sauce  for,  361   303 

eicellent  Hot  Ragout 

of  Cold  Veal,  512   379 

Potted,  503 373 

Breast  Ragout,  517  . .  379 

Do.  with  Pease,  Note 

to,517 

Veal  Olives,  518   .... 

Cutlets,  broiled,  521.. . 


380 
381 
383 


Pa«e 
Veal,   Knuckle  to   Ragout, 

No.522     383 

Do.  with  Rice,  523  ..  3S4 

Gay's  Receipt  do.,  524     ib. 

and  Ham  Patties  ( Ap. 

No.  28.) 430 

'■ Pie  ( Ap.  No.  20.)     427 

Vegetables,  Obs.  on.      See 

the  5ib  Chapter  of  the  Ru* ' 

dinients  of  Cookery    ....     92 
Vegetable  Essences,  to  ex- 
tract, 417*  327 

Marrow 401 

Marketing  Tables 

for  .i 412 

VenisoD,  to  Roasta  Hauoch, 

63 163 

Neck  or  Shoulder,  64..   164 

toHash,528 388 

— —  to    Vensonify   Mutton, 

32 148 

theDeviPs 24 

Wine  Sauce  for,  344  . .  290 

Sharp  do.  for,  345....    ib. 

Sweet  do.,  346 ib. 

—  Mutton  Gravy,  347   • .     ib. 

. Pasty  (Ap.  No.  9.). . .  •  423 

Vinegar,  Sauce  for  Venison, 

345 290 

Burnet   or    Cucumber, 

302 310 

Basil,  397    318 

Cress,397*    ib. 

Eshallot,  401,  402    ..  310, 

320 

Garllck,  400 310 

Horseradish,  399* ....     ib. 

——Camp,  403 320 

Piquante,  453    339 

for  Salads,  305 317 

Tarragon,  396    ib. 

Raspberry,  390 315 

Sweet     and     Savoury 

Herbs,  Spices,  &c.  Obs. 

to,  396 317 

Green  Mint,  398 318 

Pyroligneous,  Obs.  on, 

397* ib. 


490 


INDBX. 


4M 
333 

lb. 


Pagw 
Vol  an  Vent  (Ap.  No.  25.)  420 
WalDutsj  to  pickle  (Ap.  No. 

Walnut  Catnup,  438    

Water  -  gruel    immediatply, 

i72 

—  Tarious    Relishes   for, 

572 

Watkios,  the   Rev.   G.  his 

Mints  to  Heads  of  Families    1 4 

Water  Souchy,  IS6 207 

Welsh  Rabbit,  639 393 

Wheat-ears,  81    1T2 

White  Sauce,  364,  365 304 

White  Wine  Whey,  566 416 

Whitings,  fri#»d,  1 53    208 

WhipSyllftbub,(Ap.No.50.)  437 


Psfl^e 
Widji^eofi  and  Teal,  No.  T5    170 

Wild  Ducks,  74 ib. 

Wine  Sauce  for  Venison,  &c., 

344 299 

Woodcock,  76 170 

has  the  same  honours 

paid    to  it  as  the  Grand 

Lama,  Note  to  76 ib. 

Wow  Wow  Sauce  fix  Boiled 

Beef,328 294 

Weights  and    Measures    for 

Cookery,  Table  of 67 

Weisrbt,  the  Diminution  that 

takes  place  in  Cooking  . .  72 
Yorkshire  Pudding,  552. ...  465 
Zest,  255 270 


491 


FAREWELL  TO  THE  READER. 


^K  now  have  made,  in  one  design, 
Ik  Utile  and  Dulee  join, 
ftd  taaght  the  poor,  and  men  of  wealth, 
0  reconcile  their  tastes  to  Health, 
estrain  each  forward  appetite, 
0  dine  with  prudence  and  delight, 
nd  earefol  all  onr  rales  to  follow, 
9  masticate  before  they  swallow. 
is  thus  Htobia  guides  oar  pen, 
»  warn  the  greedy  sons  of  men, 
» moderate  their  wine  and  meat. 
Id  **  eat  to  live,  not  live  to  eat." 
NT  the  rash  Palate  oft  bestows 
tfaritic  Lteetures  on  the  Toes ! !  f 
»e  Siomaeh^Yoid  of  wind  and  bile, 
All  praise  our  monitory  style, 
Id  as  he  cannot  speak,  enlist 
Biself  as  your  ventriloquist — 
ie  Head,  now  clear  from  pain  and  vapour, 
lall  order  out  his  ink  and  paper ; 
id  dictate  praises  on  the»e  rules, 
•  govern  gormandising  fools. 
e  Legg,  now  fearless  of  the  gout, 
ready  messengers  turn  eat. 


To  spread  our  volume  far  and  near. 
Active  in  gratitude  sincere. 
While  thus  the  Bodjf,  strong  and  sound. 
Our  constant  advocate  is  found, 
And  pointing  to  receipts  delicious, 
Bxclaims  ••  who  reads  our  new  Apkcivs, 
If  he  has  brains  may  keep  them  cool, 
If  a  sound  stomach  and  no  fool. 
May  keep  it  so,  uoclogged  by  food. 
Indigestion's  sickly  brood. 
His  Hunger,  though  oppressive,  ease, 
His  Palate,  though  capricious,  pleawe. 

And  if  with  care  he  reads  our  Booh, 

In  theory  may  be  a  Cook; 

Learn  the  delights  good  rules  proease  us 

When  appetite  by  reason's  aw'd, 

(Zbno  alike  and  Epicuacs 

Pleasures  combin'd  with  health  applaudj 

He  who  is  Stomach's  master,  be 

The  noblest  Empire  then  may  boast. 

And  at  whatever  Feast  he  be. 

That  man  alone  '  shall  rule  the  Roast.' " 


FINIS. 


I 


PRIMT3BD   BT  SSAOKBLL   AlfB  00.,  JeRNBONVcOVBV,  FliBBT-S^RBCT. 


THE  FOLLOWING  WORKS 

ABB   NOW  OM  BALB 

BY  CADELL  &  CO.  EDINBURGH 


The  WOLFE  of  BADENOCK:  a  Hlstoriwil  of  the  Fourteenth 
Ontury.  Hv  the  Author  of  I^chanftii,  3  vols.  ]2ino.  11.  4s. 

Thr  novels,  tales,  and  ROMANCES  of  the  AUTHOR  of 
WAVEIILEV,  (from  "  Waverlev"  to  *»  Qucntin  Durward,"  inclu- 
sive,) TwcntV'five  Vt^luint-s  8vo.  handsomely  printed  by  Ballantyne, 
with  Viguet't'  Title-I'age:'.    121.  in  JNMirdB. 

Anotuer  Edition  if  the  same  bh;RfES  of  NOVELS,  in  Thirty-three 
Volume**  Ftwlscap  8vo.  with  Vignette  Title- Pages.    101  in  boards. 

*«*  Sets  ot  IxHli  series  of  the  last  named  celebrate<l  Works  are 
alvrays  on  hanti,  in  gifai  variety  of  bindingB. 

A  levr  ciipii^s  of  me  separate  editions  in  12mo.  and  post  8vo.  are  still 
to  he  had  in  complete  setf*. 

The  POETK  AL  WORKS  of  SIR  WALTER  SCOTT,  Bart. 
containing  the  Minstaelsey  and  SibTaistrem.  Ten  Volumes  8vo« 
Pricf  61.  in  boards. 

THE  EXCYCLOPiEDIA  BRITANNirA,  Sixth  EditiimrTxrtMr 
Vohui\("^  4tu,  with  nearly  QUO  Engravings.  241.  in  boards. 

SUPPLEMENT  to  the  same,  edited  by  M.  Napier,  Esq.  in  Six 
Volninr-  4t<  ,  with  140  Engravings.  121. 

*^*  This  popular  Work  ccmtains  contrtbutiens  by  Stewart,  Pi^t- 
PAia,  Leslid,  Ivory,  Biot,  Ara(K),  Dr.  Roget,  Sir  J^imbs  E.  Smith, 
Dr.  Thomas  Young,  Dr.  Thomas  Thomcon,  Professor  Jameson,  Sir 
VValtlr  J>coTT,  Mr.  Jeffuly,  .1.  R.  M'Culloch,  Dr.  M'Cullocb, 
Mr.  Jacob,  Mr.  Ricahdo,  Mr.  Tredgold,  Mr.  Malthus,  Mr.  Mus- 
OAETT,  Mr.  James  Mill,  Mr.  John  Allen,  and  other  well-known 
writers 

The  EDINBURGH  MEDICAL  and  SURGICAL  JOURNAL, 
fri)m  18tJ5  to  April  lb26,  with  General  Index.  Twenty-five  Volumes 
8vo.  101.  in  ha-irds. 

The  FARMER'S  MAGAZINE,  1800  to  1825,  forming  the  most 
cownlete  body  of  Agriculture  extant,  with  General  Index.  Twenty- 
six  Volumes  8vo.   61.  in  boards. 

The  EDINBURGH  PHILOSOPHICAL  JOURNAL,  conducted 
by  Dr.  Brewster  and  Prc>fe88or  Jameson,  from  June  1819  to  April  1826. 
Funrteeo  Vrilumes  8vo.  71'  in  boards. 

Tde  EDINBURGH  ANNUAL  REGISTER,  1808 to  1824,  which 
liaa  been  edited  successively  by  Mr.  Southey,  Sir  VV'alcer  Scott,  and 
other  di^nnguislird  writers.   Twenty- two  Volumes  8vo.  61.  in  boards. 

MEMOIRS  of  the  CALEDONIAN  HORTICULTURAL  SO- 
CIETY, No.  1.  to  Xlf.    11. 163.  in  boards. 


iiEii  I ,  i>u.  J.  ui  .^j  1.    Ji.  ioa.  in  iiuarus.  a 

The  SCOT'S  MAGAZINE,  fmm  its  commencement  inH739  to 
1826,  complete  is  Ninety->even  Volumes.    Half-bound,  421. 

***  Complete  sets  of  tiiis  Work  are  iretting  scarce. 

InR^EDlNBURGH  MAGAZINE,  fi-om  1817 to  1826.    Eighteta 
Volumes.    Boards.  71. 

Odd  Numbers,  or  Volumes,  of  all  the  above  Periodical  PublicatioBi^ 
rno  be  imd  to  complete  8<^tB. 

TRANSACnONS  of  the  HIGHLAND    SOCIETY  of  SCOT- 
LAND.   Six  Volumes  8vo.    41.4s.  boards. 

*,♦  Very  tew  sets  of  this  valuable  Work  remain.    Odd  Volomea  i 
be  liad  to  complete  sets. 


