TX  715         Sci  RR 

07599  Desk 
1911 

Copy  1 


;. 


COOK  BOOK 

CONSISTING  OF  4*0  RECIPES 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  or  art ; 

We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart; 

We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  books, 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 

He  may  live  without  hope — what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 

He  may  live  without  love — what  is  passion  but  pining? 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining? 

— Owen  Meredith 


COMPILED  BY 

THE  WOMAN'S  ASSOCIATION  OF  THE  CHURCH 
OF  THE  EVANGEL,  CONGREGATIONAL 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
1911 


M.  B.  BROWN  PRINTING  &  BINDING  CO., 
49-57  Park  Place.  New  York. 


Library  of  Congress 


2010  474650 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


4  teaspoonfuls  equals  1  tablespoonful. 

4  tablespoonfuls   "  y2  gill  or  1  wine  glass. 

1  tablespoonful   "  y2  ounce. 

1  pint  of  liquid   "  1  pound. 

2  gills   "  1  cup  or  y2  pint. 

1  kitchen  cup   "  y2  pint. 

1  heaping  quart  of  sifted  flour .  "  1  pound. 

4  cups  of  flour   "  1  quart  or  1  pound. 

1  rounded  tablespoon  of  flour.  "  y2  ounce. 

3  cups  of  corn  meal   "  1  pound. 

Y2.  pints  of  corn  meal   "  1  pound. 

1  cup  of  butter   "  y2  pound. 

1  pint  of  butter   "  y2  pound. 

1  tablespoonful  butter   "  1  ounce. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg   "  2  ounces. 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut   "  1  ounce. 

1  solid  pint  of  chopped  meat..  "  1  pound. 
10  eggs   "  1  pound. 

A  dash  of  pepper   "  %  teaspoonful. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar.  . .  "  1  pound. 
1  pint  of  granulated  sugar. ...  "  1  pound. 

1  pint  of  brown  sugar   "  13  ounces. 

2y2  cups  powdered  sugar....  "  1  pound. 


BREADS  AND  MUFFINS. 


"  The  very  staff  of  life.    The  comfort  of  the  husband — and  the 
pride  of  the  wife." 

White  Bread. — Dissolve  2y2  ounces  yeast  cakes  or  equal 
quantity  of  liquid  yeast,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of 
sugar  in  1  quart  of  lukewarm  milk  and  water  or  water  alone ; 

3  quarts  of  sifted  flour  or  as  much  as  is  necessary  to  make 
dough  enough  to  knead,  2  tablespoons  of  lard.  Knead  well, 
put  in  greased  bowl,  cover  with  towel  and  set  in  warm  place 
for  two  hours.  Knead  well  again  and  return  to  bowl  for 
another  hour's  rising.  Form  gently  into  loaves,  only  half  fill 
pans,  let  stand  \y2  hours  and  bake  from  40  to  50  minutes  in 
moderate  oven.  — Mrs.  Odell. 

Simple  Good  Bread. — To  quarts  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of 
lard,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  scalded 
milk,  3  cups  of  water,  two-thirds  yeast  cake.  Mix  well  so  it 
does  not  stick,  but  is  light.  Let  raise  over  night  and  knead  in 
the  morning.  When  raised  the  second  time  bake  in  moderate 
oven.    Makes  two  loaves.  — Mrs.  Walter  McDougall. 

Rye  Bread. — To  ^4  of  a  pint,  half  water  and  half  milk,  add 
one-third  of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water,  2 
tablespoons  of  molasses,  1  tablespoon  of  lard  and  as  much  rye 
flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  an  iron  spoon.  Let  raise  until 
light  in  the  pan  in  which  it  is  mixed.  Knead,  put  in  baking 
pans,  allow  to  raise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

—Mrs.  McDougall. 

Graham  Bread. — Two  cups  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  J/2 
cup  of  sugar,  ^4  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  shorten- 
ing, 1  cup  of  white  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  and  Graham 
flour  enough  to  thicken  about  as  stiff  as  cup  cake.  Put  in 
well  greased  pans  and  steam  for  2  hours,  then  bake  until  a 
crust  forms.  — Mrs.  Odell. 

Nut  Bread. — One  egg,  Y\  cup  of  sugar,  \y>  cups  of  milk, 

4  cups  of  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  small 
teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  (about  T/2  pound). 
Mix  in  order  given,  let  stand  20  or  30  minutes  in  a  warm 
place.  Bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  two 
small  loaves.  — Mrs.  Andrews. 

Brown  Bread. — One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
molasses  made  from  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  (level),  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
2  cups  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  2y2  cups 


6 


of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisens.  Put  in  1-pound 
cans  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  \y2  hours. 

— Airs.  C.  S.  Warner. 
Boston  Brown  Bread. — Three  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups 
rye  or  wheat  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk.  J/2  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  melted  lard, 
iy2  teaspoonfuls  baking  soda.  Stir  the  baking  soda  in  the 
boiling  water  until  it  foams,  mix  all  together  and  if  not  stiff 
enough,  add  white  flour  to  finish.  Put  in  covered  mold  and 
steam  two  hours.  — Mrs.  McBride. 

Muffins. — Generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  about  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  cream  and  add  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour, 
scant,  into  which  has  been  sifted  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
Add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Salt.  Bake  in  hot 
oven.  — Airs.  T.  C.  Alacoy. 

Griddle  Cakes. — Three  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  well,  add  1  egg  well  beaten, 
and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  at  once 
on  a  well-greased  griddle.  — Airs.  Horn. 

Sour  Cream  Muffins. — One  and  one-half  cups  sour  cream, 
\y2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  soda,  1  egg,  2  cups  flour,  salt, 
and  a  scant  half  cup  sugar.  Put  sour  cream  and  soda  to- 
gether first,  add  egg,  sugar  and  salt,  then  the  flour.  Bake  in 
muffin  pans.  — Miss  N.  R.  Bentley. 

Raised  Biscuit. — One  quart  flour,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  of 
potato  yeast,  l/2  cup  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  raise  over  night;  in  the  morning 
when  light  mold  into  biscuits ;  let  raise  until  twice  the  size 
and  bake  20  minutes.  — Airs.  Fish. 

Tea  Biscuits. — One  quart  of  milk,  y  pound  of  butter,  3 
pounds  flour,  baking  powder.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit — To  every  cup  of  flour  add  1  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  lard,  and  T/2  tea- 
spoonful of  butter;  mix  well  with  spoon,  add  pinch  of  salt, 
and  milk  to  make  soft  dough  not  too  moist.  Roll  out,  cut 
with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  hot  oven.         — Airs.  E.  Fish. 

Muffins. — Two  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
pinch  of  salt,  small  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk. 
Put  in  muffin  rings  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  — Mrs.  Fish. 

Corn  Bread. — Two  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  ^ 
cup  molasses,  %  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  shortening, 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  J/2  teaspoonful  salt  and  2T/2  cups  of  cold 
water.  — Mrs.  Foland. 

Corn  Cakes. — One-half  pint  of  corn  meal,  slightly  scalded, 
J/2  teaspoonful  salt,  3  eggs,  1  pint  milk  or  part  water.  1  cup 


7 


flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  \y2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast 
powder.  — Mrs.  I.  E.  Spencer. 

Johnny  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  1%  cups  granulated  Indian  meal,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  a  little  salt.    Bake  in  shallow  pan. 

— Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 
Johnny  Cake. — One  and  one-quarter  cups  of  flour,  %  cup 
corn  meal,  little  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  1  egg  and  %  cup  of  milk.    Bake  ]A  hour  in  quick  oven. 

—Mrs.  McDougall. 

Indian  Bread. — One  cup  of  flour,  2  cups  of  Indian  meal,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sour  milk,  y2  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  — Miss  Slatcher. 

Cheese  Straws. — Mix  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  1  cup 
of  pastry  flour,  add  salt,  spoonful  of  paprika  and  1  cup  of 
grated  cheese.  Wet  with  very  cold  water,  roll  out  very  thin 
and  cut  into  strips  6  inches  long  and  2y2  inches  wide.  Lay 
on  a  wet  pan,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

— Olive  A.  McAdams. 

Cheese  Straws. — Three  cups  of  grated  cheese,  1  cup  of 
flour,  little  mustard,  salt  and  red  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder ;  mix  with  cold  water,  same  as  pie  crust,  roll  thin, 
and  cut  in  strips.    Bake  quickly  a  light  brown. 

— Mrs.  Luther  Foster. 

Corn  Fritters. — One  can  of  corn,  y2  cup  of  milk,  y>  cup  of 
flour,  small  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  salt.  Fry 
on  griddle.  — Mrs.  Little. 

Rusks. — One  pint  of  raised  dough,  2  cups  of  milk,  y2  cup 
of  sugar,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  butter.  Beat  eggs,  butter  and 
sugar  together,  add  milk  and  dough  ;  when  thoroughly  mixed 
add  flour  enough  to  knead  and  when  kneaded,  form  into 
rolls ;  set  to  raise.    Bake  20  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

—Mrs.  McBride. 

Flannel  Cakes. — Three  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  little  more 
than  y2  pint  of  flour,  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  yeast  powder.      — Mrs.  L  E.  Spencer. 

Potato  Rolls. — Three  eggs,  4  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  cup  of 
mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  of  yeast,  y2  pound  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed.  Let  raise  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  or  make  in  rolls. 
To  make  rusks  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  — Mrs.  Hartfield. 

Sally  Newports. — Two  cups  of  flour,  one-third  cup  of 
sugar,  \y2  cups  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2 
eggs,  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  a  little  salt.    Make  12  gems. 

—Mrs.  Little. 


8 


Wheat  Muffins. — One  quart  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  rubbed  into  flour,  3  eggs,  mixed  with  1  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  —Mrs.  Fiero. 

Nonpareil  Corn  Bread. — Three  heaping  cups  Indian  meal, 
1  cup  of  flour,  3  eggs,  2y2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful 
lard,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt.  — Mrs.  William  Spencer. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake. — One  tablespoonful  butter,  J/2  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  1  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  separate!)^  l/2 
cup  milk,  1  cup  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Grated  rind  of  y2  lemon.  Stir  sugar,  butter,  yolk  of  egg,  and 
little  salt  together,  add  a  little  flour  and  a  little  milk  until  all 
is  mixed.  Beaten  white  of  egg  and  lemon  last.  Bake  in  pie 
tin  and  cover  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  chopped  almonds. 

— Mrs.  Quimby. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — One  pint  of  milk,  ]/\  yeast  cake,  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  lard 
(luke  warm),  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  cups  of  flour.  Make  a 
sponge  and  let  rise ;  when  light,  make  a  stiff  dough  with  flour. 
Knead  smooth  and  let  rise  again  and  knead.  Roll  out  the 
dough  y2  inch  thick,  lift  from  the  board  and  allow  to  shrink. 
Cut  with  a  round  cutter,  place  a  piece  of  butter  in  centre  of 
each,  fold  and  press  the  edges  together.  Place  in  buttered 
pan  and  when  light,  bake  in  hot  oven.  ■ — Miss  A.  Best. 

Graham  Rolls. — One  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
1  tablespoon  of  molasses,  small  T/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  graham 
flour  sufficient  for  thin  batter.    Bake  in  hot  gem  pans. 

—Hatfield. 

English  Christmas  Bun  Loaf. — One  and  one-half  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  blended,  4  eggs,  Zy2  cups  of 
flour,  y2  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  little  salt  and  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  Mix  all  together,  adding  enough  milk  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  then  put  in  y2  pound  of  raisins,  piece  of 
citron  cut  fine  and  some  caraway  seeds.    Bake  slowly. 

— Miss  Cain. 

Shortcake  Biscuit. — One  pint  of  sifted  flour,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  1  teacup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Mix 
lightly  with  spoon  and  handle  as  little  as  possible  in  rolling. 

Popovers. — One  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  ]/$  cup  of 
milk  and  1  egg.  Sift  flour  and  salt  together,  add  milk  and 
beat  until  smooth  with  an  egg  beater.  Add  well  beaten  egg 
and  continue  beating  for  two  minutes.  Half  fill  deep,  hot 
gem  pans  (well  greased),  and  bake  40  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.    This  makes  six.  '  —Mrs.  Macoy. 


9 


Educator  Muffins. — One  quart  of  bran  meal,  1  pint  of 
whole  wheat  flour,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  even  teaspoon  of  soda 
in  one-third  cup  of  hot  water,  2  cups  of  milk.  Use  Dr.  John- 
son's Educator  Bran  Meal. — For  Constipation. 

French  Toast. — One  pint  of  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Soak  the  bread  a  little  and  fry  in 
hot  butter. 

Dumplings  for  Stews. — One  pint  of  flour,  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sift  all  together  four 
times.  Mix  1  cup  of  rich  milk  with  flour  and  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls into  the  boiling  stew.  Cover  tight  and  do  not  open  for 
ten  minutes,  when  they  should  be  done.  — Mrs.  Crosby. 

Apple  Fritters. — Break  1  egg  into  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tender 
apples  peeled  and  sliced  thin,  a  little  nutmeg,  salt  and  baking 
powder ;  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  in  deep 
hot  fat.  —Hatfield. 

WafHes. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  2  heaping  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  as  thick  as  griddle 
cakes ;  then  add  3  eggs  well  beaten,  and  butter  size  of  an  egg 
melted.    Fry  in  waffle  irons.  — D.  H. 

Shreaded  Wheat  Biscuit. — Warm  the  biscuit  in  the  oven 
to  restore  crispness,  pour  hot  milk  over  it,  dipping  the  milk 
over  it  until  the  shreds  are  swollen  ;  then  pour  a  little  cream 
over  the  biscuit. 


10 


11 


EGGS. 

<k  The  Most  Polite  Is  That  Which  Bears  the  Praise  of  Nations 
for  Dressing  Eggs  Two  Hundred  Different  Fashions." 

The  Best  Way  to  Boil  Eggs. — Put  eggs  into  a  dish  and 
cover  with  boiling  water;  let  stand  10  minutes.  Skim  out  the 
eggs  and  cover  again  with  boiling  w;ater;  then  allow  to  stand 
10  minutes  longer. 

Omelet. — One  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  small  teaspoonful  corn- 
starch, salt  and  pepper.  The  more  the  eggs  are  beaten  the 
lighter  the  omelet.  Mix  ingredient's.  Butter  the  frying  pan 
and  heat  thoroughly  before  pouring  in  the  mixture.  After  it 
has  browned  on  under  side  then  turn.    Serve  at  once. 

Baked  Eggs. — Have  large  baking  shells ;  drop  yolk  of  1 
egg  in  each ;  beat  whites  to  very  stiff  froth ;  put  a  spoonful  on 
top  of  each  egg,  also  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  and  little  piece 
of  butter ;  put  shells  in  pan  of  hot  water  in  oven ;  let  whites 
just  begin  to  brown.    Serve  at  once  in  shells. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Baked  Omelet. — Five  eggs  and  y2  cup  of  milk ;  Yi  teaspoon 
cornstarch;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  whites  and  yolks 
separately  and  stir  lightly  together,  adding  milk  and  corn- 
starch, salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  buttered  pudding  dish  10 
minutes  or  until  firm.  Serve  immediately.       — Mrs.  Andrews. 

Tomato  Omelet. — Three  or  4  tomatoes  or  34  can  of 
tomatoes ;  simmer  with  a  little  chopped  onion  and  parsley. 
Beat  4  eggs  until  very  light;  add  tomatoes  to  this  and  fry  on 
very  hot  pan.    Serve  at  once.  — Mrs.  Andrews. 

Baked  Omelet. — Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately, 1  cup  milk;  boil  and  stir  in  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch. 
Pour  milk  over  beaten  eggs,  put  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake 
10  minutes  in  quick  oven.  Season  with  pinch  of  salt  and 
generous  piece  of  butter.  — Mrs.  Hartfield. 

Cheese  Omelet. — Line  small  pudding  dish  with  buttered 
bread  squares  cut  in  about  2-inch  pieces ;  cover  with  grated 
cheese.  Repeat  until  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  a  cup  or  more 
of  milk  with  1  egg  beaten  in,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  quick 
oven  and  brown  on  top.  — Mrs.  McDougall. 

Deviled  Eggs. — Boil  eggs  20  minutes  or  until  hard ;  remove 
the  shells;  then  halve  the  eggs,  removing  the  yolks  carefully. 
Smooth  yolks  with  silver  fork,  adding  salt,  pepper,  a  little 
mustard,  melted  butter  or  salad  oil,  vinegar  and  celery  seed 
to  taste.  Put  paste  back  in  shells  carefully.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  or  alone.  — Airs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 


12 


Eggs  Au  Gratin. — Place  layers  of  toasted  bread  squares  in 
baking  dish ;  cover  with  white  sauce  and  grated  cheese.  Fill 
dish  with  layers  and  on  top  layer  break  several  raw  eggs 
whole;  cover  with  cheese  and  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  until  eggs  are  set.    Serve  at  once.  — E.  B.  D. 

Scalloped  Eggs. — Five  hard-boiled  eggs,  y2  cup  of  white 
sauce  or  gravy,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  ^  cup  of  minced  ham 
or  any  cold  meat.  Butter  a  shallow  baking  dish  and  cover 
with  a  layer  of  the  meat;  over  this  spread  the  eggs  sliced  thin 
and  then  the  gravy;  sprinkle  the  bread  crumbs  over  all ;  pepper 
and  salt  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  covered  in  a  moderate  oven 
10  minutes  and  then  brown. 

Egg  Hash. — Boil  4  eggs  hard;  when  cold  take  out  the 
3Tolks ;  cut  the  whites  into  small  pieces ;  add  2  teaspoonfuls 
flour,  little  salt  and  pepper,  heat  4  tablespoons  of  milk,  stir 
in  the  whites  and  keep  hot  over  boiling  tea  kettle.  Prepare 
some  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast,  cut  into  inch  squares,  lay 
on  the  bottom  of  a  dish  and  moisten  with  hot  milk.  Pour  on 
whites  and  grate  volks  over  all.    Good  luncheon  dish. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

English  Scrambled  Eggs. — For  a  large  dish ;  8  eggs,  1  large 
cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Put  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper  in  steam  boiler;  when  hot  add 
the  eggs  without  beating;  stir  until  thick.    Serve  on  toast. 

Rice  Omelet. — Warm  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  in  1  cup  of 
milk  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  ;  stir  and  beat  until  well 
blended ;  add  3  well-beaten  eggs  and  salt  as  needed ;  melt 
another  tablespoon  of  butter  in  frying  pan  and  when  hot  add 
egg  mixture.    Cook  quickly  and  put  in  hot  oven  to  set. 

— Mrs.  Washburn. 

Spanish  Omelet. — Take  3  slices  of  lean  bacon  and  cut  in 
3^2-inch  squares;  fry  gently  until  crisp,  but  not  too  brown,  and 
add  1  small  onion,  a  medium-sized  tomato  and  five  mush- 
rooms, all  chopped  rather  fine.  Rub  a  freshly-cut  clove  of 
garlic  on  the  spoon  used  to  stir,  while  cooking  15  minutes. 
Meanwhile  break  6  eggs  in  a  bowl,  season  with  1  saltspoon  of 
salt,  yk  saltspoon  of  white  pepper.  Beat  very  light  and  turn 
into  a  perfectly  smooth  frying  pan  in  which  a  teaspoon  of 
butter  has  been  melted  and  spread  over  the  bottom  and  sides. 
Shake  as  usual,  until  nearly  set.  Spread  the  bacon  and  vege- 
tables quickly  over,  fold  and  set  in  oven  for  1  minute.  Serve 
at  once.  — Mrs.  Crosby. 

Cheese  Souffle. — Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  tablespoons 
flour,  V2  cup  of  scalded  milk,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  CUP  of 
grated  cheese,  yolks  and  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  separately. 
Place  butter  and  flour  in  pan  and  smooth  while  heating,  add- 


13 


ing  milk,  salt,  cheese  and  yolks  of  eggs,  stirring  until  thick. 
When  cool  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  20  minutes 
and  serve  at  once.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Grape  Fruit  Omelet. — One  grape  fruit.  Scoop  out  pulp 
with  spoon,  put  into  a  cup,  add  the  juice  and  cover  all  with 
1  tablespoon  sugar.  Allow  1  egg  to  each  person.  Beat  yolks, 
add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  then  the  juice  from  the  fruit. 
Have  pan  hot  and  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  a  few  minutes  (not  real  stiff),  add  the  yolks, 
stir  a  little  and  turn  into  hot  pan.  Allow  it  to  stand  on  top  of 
stove  for  a  few  minutes  until  it  has  risen,  then  place  on  the 
top  part  of  a  hot  oven  until  it  browns  on  top ;  turn  out  on 
platter.   Place  pulp  on  one  side  of  omelet  and  fold.  Serve. 

—Miss  Mulford. 

Cream  Omelet  with  Green  Peas. — To  \y2  level  tablespoons 
Duryeas'  cornstarch  add  y2  cup  rich  milk  and  1  level  table- 
spoon butter.  Bring  to  boil  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Beat  yolks  4  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  sauce,  with  y2  cup 
green,  peas  already  cooked.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth 
and  turn  into  mixture.  When  brown  and  firm,  roll  and  turn 
out  on  a  hot  platter.    Garnish  with  cup  hot  peas. 

Ham  Omelet. — Into  \y2  tablespoons  Duryeas'  cornstarch, 
beat  a  little  at  a  time,  y2  pint  milk.  When  well  blended  add 
3  well-beaten  eggs  and  beat  again.  Turn  in  1  good  half  cup  of 
shredded  or  grated  ham,  and  stir  well.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Turn 
with  cake  turner  and  lay  one  half  over  the  other.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Omelet  Au  Gratin. — Dissolve  1  teaspoon  Duryeas'  corn- 
starch in  y2  cup  milk.  Beat  together  4  eggs  and  y2  cup  grated 
cheese.  Mix  all  well  together.  Turn  into  well-buttered,  hot 
pan.    Brown,  but  do  not  scorch. 

Apple  Omelet. — To  2  cups  cold  apple  sauce,  add  one-third 
cup  sugar,  3  well-beaten  eggs  and  y2  tablespoon  Duryeas' 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  milk.  Flavor  with 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Beat  well.  Bake  slowly  20  minutes. 
Serve  warm. 


14 


'  15 


SOUPS. 

"  Hail,  Soup !    Thou  Harbinger  of  Full  Orbed  Dinner." 

Soup  Stock. — Three  pounds  soup  meat;  gash  meat  well 
and  put  to  it  3  quarts  cold  water,  3  teaspoonfuls  salt,  y2  tea- 
spoon pepper,  1  small  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  large  onion;  each 
should  weigh  3  ounces  after  peeling;  stick  1  clove  in  the  onion. 
Cut  the  vegetables,  and  when  the  meat  has  cooked  for  2 
hours,  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  vegetables,  and  cook  3  hours 
more.  Skim  just  as  the  meat  comes  to  a  boil,  then  throw  in 
y2  cup  of  cold  water;  take  off  the  scum  that  will  rise  now 
rapidly ;  repeat  the  process  again  when  it  begins  to  boil 
(putting  in  cold  water  and  skimming).  After  the  vegetables 
are  in  skim  again.  When  done  strain  through  a  flannel  cloth 
all  but  the  sediment.  Cook  slowly,  not  boiling  too  hard. 
When  cold  take  off  the  fat. 

Split  Pea  Soup  (or  Bean). — Three  pints  cold  water,  1  pint 
peas  (split),  piece  of  bacon,  salt  pork  or  ham  bone,  small 
onion  and  little  celery.  Cook  together  until  tender,  then 
strain  ;  if  too  thick,  more  water  can  be  used ;  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Water  in  which  ham  has  been  boiled  can  be  used 
in  place  of  the  bacon,  salt  pork  or  ham  bone. 

Tomato  Soup. — One  quart  of  canned  tomatoes ;  season  to 
taste  with  paprika,  salt,  pepper,  bay  leaf  and  small  onion;  1 
quart  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  wet  in  milk;  mix  while 
cold  and  allow  to  boil  quickly;  remove  from  fire,  strain  and 
serve  immediately.  — Benjamin. 

Tomato  Bisque. — One-half  can  of  tomatoes ;  bring  to  a  boil 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  and  strain.  Heat  2  cups 
of  milk  in  double  boiler  very  hot,  but  do  not  boil.  Add  to 
this  2  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch,  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Mix  all  together  5  minutes  before  serving,  stirring 
briskly.  —Mrs.  Fish. 

Cream  Asparagus  Soup. — One  quart  milk,  1  pint  water,  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  salt  to  taste,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour  dis- 
solved in  cold  water,  1  can  of  asparagus  tips.  Bring  milk  and 
water  to  a  boil,  adding  butter  and  flour.  Boil  8  minutes,  then 
put  in  asparagus  tips  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again  and  serve 
hot.   This  quantity  will  be  enough  for  6  persons. 

—Mrs.  McBride. 

Cream  Celery  Soup. — One  quart  of  cold  water,  6  white 
stems  of  celery ;  cut  fine  and  cook  until  tender.  Cook  in  an- 
other pan  y2  cup  of  rice  with  1  pint  of  water  and  1  pint  of 


16 


milk,  1  hour  slowly.  Strain  celery  and  pour  the  celery  water 
into  the  rice;  strain  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  table - 
spoonful  of  butter. 

Cream  Corn  Summer  Soup. — Remove  corn  from  1  can ; 
cover  with  3  cups  of  water,  simmer  1  hour,  strain  through 
colander.  Scald  3  cups  milk  and  add  corn.  2  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  1  tablespoon  flour;  mix  smooth;  add  to  liquid  also 
beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.  If  desired  extra  nice,  add  T/2  cup  of 
cream. 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup. — Pick  over  and  wash  1  pound  of 
spinach,  or  use  the  canned  goods,  which  will  save  extra  work 
and  is  just  as  nice  for  soup.  Heat  in  a  sauce  pan  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Mix  an  ounce  of  butter  with  an  ounce  of 
flour  in  a.  sauce  pan,  add  the  spinach,  salt  and  pepper,  1  quart 
of  well-flavored  soup  stock,  and  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  thick 
rich  cream.  Let  the  soup  come  nearly  to  a  boil,  then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  up  with  1 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  with  croutons.         — E.  M. 

Clam  Chowder. — Chop  25  clams  very  fine,  2  onions,  4 
potatoes,  Yi  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  herbs  to  taste  (sage  and 
thyme),  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  the  potatoes  size  of  walnuts  and 
cook  all  ingredient's  until  tender.  This  receipt  can  be  made 
in  45  minutes.  — Mrs.  Hartfield. 

Connecticut  Clam  Chowder. — Twenty  hard-shell  clams,  6 
potatoes  chopped,  2  large  onions  chopped,  4  small  pieces  of 
salt  pork,  fried  brown  and  chopped,  saving  fat  to  be  added 
last.  Cook  clams  in  liquor,  then  chop,  returning  to  liquor, 
with  potatoes,  pork,  salt,  pepper,  paprika  and  a  little  curry 
powder  if  desired,  and  onions.  Cover  with  water  and  cook 
slowly  3  hours.    When  ready  to  serve  add  a  little  hot  milk. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Potato  Soup. — One  quart  of  milk,  6  large  potatoes,  1  stalk 
of  celery,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  large  onion.  Boil  milk  in 
double  with  celery  and  onion;  pare  and  boil  potatoes  30 
minutes,  turn  off  water  and  mash  fine ;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter;  add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Strain  and  serve  imme- 
diately. A  cup  of  whipped  cream  added  after  the  soup  is 
strained  improves  it.  — Hatfield. 

Chicken  Soup. — Cook  3  or  4  pounds  of  fowl  in  water  to 
cover,  until  well  done.  Strain  off  liquor,  add  1  quart  of  cold 
water,  salt,  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  celery,  2  table- 
spoons of  chopped  onion,  1  large  tablespoon  of  cornstarch 
(Duryea's),  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  all  together  for 
hour,  then  strain  and  remove  grease.  When  ready  to  serve, 
add  j4  pint  of  cream  and  1  cup  of  finely-minced  chicken. 

— Delia  Haran. 


17 


Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Boil  1  pound  of  calf's  liver  and  2 
pounds  of  veal  2  hours,  skimming  well ;  then  strain,  chop  the 
meat  fine  and  add  to  it  a  small  onion,  chopped.  Salt,  pepper 
and  ground  cloves  to  taste,  thickening  all  with  1  tablespoon 
browned  flour  and  boiling  all  together.  Have  4  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  I  lemon  sliced  in  bottom  of  tureen  when  ready  to 
serve.  — Hatfield. 

Beef  Bouillon. — Take  4  pounds  of  beef  and  cook  in  4  quarts 
of  water  for  2  hours,  with  salt  and  pepper ;  then  add  celery, 
carrots,  onions,  green  pepper,  4  whole  cloves  and  a  small 
pinch  of  curry.  Cover  close  and  cook  for  1  hour  slowly.  Re- 
move all  fat  and  strain  through  a  cheese  cloth,  and  add  1 
teaspoon  of  kitchen  bouquet  if  a  darker  color  is  desired.  1 
cup  of  broiled  rice  can  be  added  last.  — E.  B.  D. 


18 


19 


FISH,  OYSTERS  AND  CLAMS. 
"  There's  As  Good  A  Fish  in  the  Sea  As  Ever  Was  Caught." 

Creamed  Codfish. — Pick  up  fish  very  fine,  freshen,  thicken 
with  milk  or  cream,  dessertful  of  cornstarch,  3  eggs  and  a  little 
butter.   Serve  on  toast. 

Pigs  in  Blankets. — Roll  oysters  in  cracker  crumbs,  then 
roll  them  up  in  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  fastened  each  with  a 
toothpick.    Fry  or  bake  until  the  bacon  is  crisp.      — E.  B.  D. 

Fried  Oysters. — Lay  on  cloth  to  absorb  all  the  liquor ;  then 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot 
butter  or  deep  fat  until  a  light  brown.  Cook  quickly  or  they 
will  absorb  too  much  fat. 

Creamed  Oysters. — One  pint  of  rich  milk,  1  quart  of 
oysters,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
milk  come  to  a  boil,  and  mix  flour  in  a  little  cold  water  and 
stir  in  boiling  milk.  Let  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in  their  own 
liquor,  skim  carefully,  drain  off  all  liquor  and  add  to  milk. 

—X.  Y.  Z. 

Celery  Oysters  (chafing  dish). — Take  as  many  oysters  as 
needed  for  number  of  people  to  be  served,  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  a  dash  of  red 
pepper,  1  cup  of  chopped  celery ;  cook  all  together  and  serve 
on  toast.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Place  in  a  shallow  baking  dish  a  layer 
of  oysters,  over  this  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter;  alternate  the  layers  until 
dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Pour  over  the  whole 
enough  oyster  juice  to  moisten  it.  Bake  in  hot  oven  20 
minutes,  and  serve  in  same  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

—Mrs.  W.  Horn. 

Blue  Fish  A  La  Creole. — To  2  pounds  of  fish  prepare  a 
dressing  of  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  finely-chopped  onions, 
a  little  thyme,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  moisten  with  butter 
(use  no  water)  and  arrange  alternately  sliced  tomatoes  and 
onions  (to  taste)  ;  6  whole  cloves,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over 
the  top  and  inside  of  fish.  Bake  40  minutes,  basting  frequently 
with  melted  butter.  — Mrs.  Macoy. 

Deviled  Crabs. — One  pound  of  crab  meat.  Pick  it  over  to 
remove  little  pieces  of  shells.  Make  :a  roux  of  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  level  teaspoonful  of 
mustard;  mix  all  together  in  a  sauce  pan,  and  when  thor- 
oughly blended  add  1  cup  of  very  rich  milk  or  half  cream 
scalding  hot.  Boil  3  minutes.  When  thick,  pour  over  crab  meat 


20 


and  add  salt,  cayenne  and  juice  of  ^  of  a  lemon.  Bake  in 
shells  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  specks  of  butter  in 
very  hot  oven.    Takes  about  15  to  20  minutes  to  brown. 

— Mrs.  Macoy. 

Salmon  A  La  Mold. — One  can  of  salmon,  4  eggs  beaten 
light,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  melted,  y2  cup  of  bread 
crumbs.  Pick  the  fish  very  fine,  rub  in  the  butter  until  smooth. 
Beat  crumbs  with  eggs  and  season,  before  working  together, 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Place  in  buttered  mold  and  stand  1 
hour. 

Sauce. — One  cup  of  boiling  water  thickened  with  I  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  all  liquor  from  salmon,  1  large  spoon- 
ful of  butter,  1  raw  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  catsup,  pinch  of  salt 
and  red  pepper.  Put  eggs  in  last  very  carefully  and  boil  1 
minute.    Pour  over  salmon  mold.  — Mrs.  Prutting. 

Salmon  Croquettes. — Make  a  white  sauce  of  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  tablespoon 
of  flour.  Pick  over  1  can  of  salmon,  add  sauce  and  y2  cup  of 
cracker  crumbs ;  form  into  shape,  roll  first  in  flour,  then  in 
beaten  egg  (to  which  has  been  added  1  tablespoon  of  cold 
water),  and  lastly  in  cracker  crumbs.   Fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Salmon  Souffle. — Remove  salmon  from  can,  rinse  in  hot 
water  and  separate  into  flakes ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and 
lemon  juice  and  let  stand  for  20  minutes.  Cook  y2  cup  of  soft 
bread  crumbs  in  y2  cup  of  milk  10  minutes ;  add  salmon  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  (beaten  until  dry  and  stiff).  Turn  into  buttered 
mold  and  bake  until  firm.    Serve  with  Spanish  sauce. 

Spanish  Sauce. — Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter ;  add  3  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Then  pour  on 
gradually,  stirring  constantly,  1  cup  of  milk  and  y2  cup  of 
cream.  Bring  to  a  boiling  point  in  double  boiler  and  season 
with  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  little  paprika  and  pepper.  A  few 
canned  pimentoes  can  be  added  if  desired. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Shrimp  Wiggle. — Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  Zy2  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ;  then  pour  on 
gradually,  stirring  constantly,  \y>  cups  of  milk.  Bring  to  a 
boiling  point  and  add  1  cup  of  shrimps  broken  into  pieces ;  also 
1  cup  of  French  peas  well  drained  and  rinsed.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  serve  on  hot  platter  on  pieces  of  toast,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.  — Mrs.  Stewart  LaMont. 

Baked  Shad. — Prepare  shad  for  baking  and  fill  with  dress- 
ing of  bread  crumbs ;  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  paprika,  a 
little  chopped  onion  and  chopped  green  pepper,  with  1  table- 


21 


spoon  of  melted  butter.  Sew  up  the  fish,  cut  gashes  in  top 
and  lay  on  pieces  of  salt  pork.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  50 
minutes.  — Mrs.  G.  W.  Peterson. 

Shell  Fish  Combination. — Take  equal  quantities  of  scallops, 
fresh  cooked  lobster,  oysters  and  little  neck  clams,  all  raw. 
Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  butter  with  1  small  table- 
spoon of  flour.  When  smooth,  add  gradually,  1  cup  of  milk 
and  cream  mixed ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Dry 
fish  on  towel,  add  to  sauce  and  cook  until  all  are  done.  A 
little  chopped  green  pepper  can  be  added.    Serve  on  toast. 

— Delia  Haran. 

Lobster  Newburg. — Cut  the  meat  of  2  small  cooked 
lobsters  into  small  pieces  and  cook  slowly  for  5  minutes  in 
4  tablespoons  of  butter.  Then  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  a  speck  of  cayenne,  a  dash  of  mace,  and 
simmer  5  minutes  longer.  Beat  well  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and 
mix  with  them  1  cup  of  cream  and  1  teaspoon  of  flour.  Pour 
over  the  cooking  mixture,  stirring  constantly,  for  \y2  minutes. 
Serve  at  once  on  squares  of  fresh  toast  with  any  seasoning 
desired.  — Mrs.  Washburn. 

Deviled  Clams. — Chop  hard-shell  clams  very  fine,  add  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  clam  shells  and  cover  with 
cracker  crumbs,  a  little  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Bake 
in  quick  oven.  — Easthampton. 

Codfish  Balls. — Flake  very  fine  1  cup  of  codfish  and  freshen 
with  boiling  water ;  mix  with  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes.  Add 
1  egg,  well  beaten,  4  tablespoons  of  milk  or  cream,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat.  — Easthampton. 


22 


*> 


23 


MEATS   AND  GAME. 

"  A  man  is,  in  general,  better  pleased  when  he  has  a  good 
dinner  than  when  his  wife  speaks  Greek." 

Beef  Loaf. — Two  pounds  of  beef,  1  pound  of  fresh  pork,  % 
pound  of  salt  pork  all  chopped  fine,  10  rolled  crackers,  ]/2  cup 
of  cold  milk,  5  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  in 
loaf  \y2  or  2  hours.  —Mrs.  Little. 

Veal  Loaf. — Chop  fine  2>y2  pounds  of  veal,  1  thick  slice  of 
salt  pork,  6  crackers  rolled,  2  eggs,  pepper,  salt  and  sage. 
Mix  all  together,  cover  with  bits  of  butter,  dredge  with  flour 
and  bake  2  hours  slowly.  —Mrs.  Little. 

Scalloped  Meat. — Chop  cold  meat,  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste ;  have  ready  some  boiled  macaroni  and  stewed  tomatoes. 
Put  a  layer  of  meat  in  baking  pan,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni, 
then  tomatoes,  then  bread  crumbs.  Repeat  until  dish  is  full ; 
dot  top  layer  of  crumbs  with  butter.  Bake  30  minutes  in  hot 
oven.  —Mrs.  Odell. 

Lamb  Pie. — Cook  slowly  2  hours,  2  pounds  of  lamb  in  3 
pints  of  water,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  done, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  mixed  in  water,  and  stir  until  quite 
thick.  Place  in  baking  dish,  and  make  rich  crust  of  2y2  cups 
of  flour  and  1  cup  of  lard  chopped  into  it,  y2  cup  of  water, 
little  salt;  put  over  meat  and  bake  l/2  hour  in  quick  oven. 
Make  air  holes  in  crust  to  allow  steam  to  escape  or  make  a 
rich  biscuit  dough.  — Miss  Slatcher. 

Turkey  Croquettes. — Cold  roast  turkey  can  be  utilized  in 
a  tasty  dish  by  boiling  the  carcas  in  sufficient  water  to  cover 
it  for  three  hours  without  renewing  the  water.  When  cooked 
drain  off  all  the  liquor,  and  when  cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  3  eggs  to  every  y2  pint,  then  add  the  turkey  meat  chopped 
coarsely  and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  3  eggs.  Make 
into  croquettes  and  cook  in  deep  hot  fat,  or  place  in  baking 
dish  and  bake  for  15  minutes.  — E.  M. 

Left  Overs. — The  left  overs  of  any  meat  may  be  utilized  in 
breakfast  balls.  Crush  three  boiled  potatoes  through  a  sieve, 
moisten  with  sweet  cream  and  add  ^  of  a  cup  of  finely 
minced  meat,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  or  any 
seasoning  desired.  Stir  in  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  form  into  balls ;  fry  in  hot  fat  and  cover  with  sauce,  if 
desired.  — E.  M. 

Rolled  Steak. — Take  round  steak,  about  1  inch  thick. 
Spread  thickly  with  a  forcemeat  made  of  crumbs  and  chopped 
salt  pork,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  finely  minced 


24 


onion,  parsley  and  sweet  green  pepper.  Roll  up  steak  and 
bind  firmly  into  shape  with  stout  string.  Lay  in  baking  pan 
and  half  fill  with  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  and  cook  2 
hours,  turning  2  or  3  times.  Allow  to  brown  slightly  and 
make  gravy.  — E.  B.  D. 

Veal  Pot  Pie. — Cook  until  tender  3  pounds  of  veal,  then 
drop  in  potatoes.  Make  dumplings  of  1  quart  of  flour,  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  \y2  pints 
of  water.  Rub  1  small  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter  into  flour. 
Drop  dumplings  on  meat  and  cover  tightly,  cooking  25 
minutes.  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Dressed  Chicken. — Cook  one  large  chicken  until  it  falls 
apart,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  small  onion,  and  1  bay 
leaf.  When  done,  shred  the  chicken ;  place  fancy-shaped  pieces 
of  boiled  egg  on  bottom  of  mold.  Cook  the  liquor  of  the 
chicken  until  it  will  jell  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  gelatine  soaked 
in  cold  water.  Stir  chicken  in  liquor  and  pour  over  eggs.  Put 
in  cool  place  and  allow  to  set  very  firm ;  when  cold,  cut  in 
slices. 

Roast  Turkey.— Clean  the  turkey,  dredge  the  inside  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  stuff  with  the  dressing  made  as  follows: 
Take  a  loaf  of  bread,  break  up  in  fine  crumbs,  add  1  table- 
spoon of  salt,  a  scant  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  y2.  teaspoon  of  powdered  sage,  l  teaspoon  of 
thyme,  I  scant  y2  cup  of  butter  melted,  little  chopped  onion. 
Mix  well  together  and  after  filling  turkey  sew  up  well.  Place 
small  pieces  of  salt  pork  over  turkey  and  allow  about  Y\  hour 
to  each -pound  in  baking. 

To  Make  the  Gravy.— Boil  the  heart,  liver,  gizzard  and 
neck  until  tender,  then  remove  from  the  liquor  and  chop  fine. 
Put  back  in  gravy  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour  wet 
in  cold,  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  when  turkey 
is  done,  remove  from  pan  .and  pour  the  gravy  into  pan ;  cook 
five  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  brown.  Skim  off  all 
fat.  - 

Oyster  Dressing. — Take  one  loaf  of  bread,  cut  off  crusts 
and  crumble -fine;  add.  y2  pound  of  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  salt  and  pepper.  Bring  one  quart  of  oysters  to  a  boil 
in  their  liquor,  skim,  add  oysters  to  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten 
with  milk  or  oyster  liquor,  if  desired.  Mix  lightly  and  pack 
turkey  loosely. 

v  Chestnut  Dressing. — Peel  large  English  chestnuts,  blanch, 
and  cook  in  water  until  tender  enough  to  mash.  Take  equal 
parts  bread  crumbs  and  mashed  chestnuts,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  y2  cup  of  melted  butter.  Use  meat  stock  or  hot. 
milk  to  moisten.    Pack  loosely  in  turkeys.      — Mrs.  DuBois. 


25 


Roast  Duck. — Wash  duck  thoroughly,  dry  and  dredge  in- 
side with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs 
and  chopped  apples,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  y2  cup  of 
melted  butter.  Mix  very  lightly  and  moisten  with  milk  or 
water,  if  needed.  Stuff  duck  lightly  and  put  in  steamer  and 
steam  until  nearly  done.  Have  oven  very  hot  and  put  small 
pieces  of  salt  pork  over  duck  and  brown  in  oven.  Make 
gravy  the  same  as  turkey,  but  use  kitchen  bouquet,  if  needed, 
to  give  good  color.  — Mrs.  Tuttle. 

Roast  Veal. — Cut  gashes  all  over  the  meat,  and  fill  them 
with  dressing;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  over  the 
surface.    Baste  frequently.  — Hatfield. 

Baked  Chicken  Fricassee. — Have  fowl  cut  up  thoroughly 
and  wash  in  strong  soda  water.  Place  in  baking  pan  each 
piece  separate,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  1  chopped  onion,  1 
chopped  sweet  pepper,  1  bay  leaf,  and  3  small  pieces  of  fried 
salt  pork  or  bacon.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  in  hot 
oven  until  chicken  is  done  (about  2  hours).  Allow  water  to 
cook  out  and  chicken  to  brown  gradually.  When  done,  re- 
move chicken  from  pan  and  place  on  pieces  of  toast.  Make 
brown  gravy  and  pour  over  all.  — Delia  Haran. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — Two  cups  of  finely  chopped  chicken, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  large  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  cup  of 
chicken  stock  and  ^>  cup  of  cream  or  rick  milk.  Melt  butter 
and  flour  together,  then  add  milk  and  stock ;  cook  until  the 
consistency  of  drawn  butter.  Add  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  chicken  and  cook  a  few 
minutes.  When  done,  allow  to  cool  before  forming  into 
balls ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  hot  fat.  — Hatfield. 

Shredded  Wheat  Meat  Patties. — Cut  oblong  cavity  in  top 
of  biscuit,  remove  top  carefully,  and  all  inside  shreds,  form- 
ing a  shell.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  small  pieces 
of  butter  in  bottom,  and  fill  the  shell  with  creamed  meat  or 
oysters.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  replace  top  of  bis- 
cuit and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Pour  oyster  liquor  or 
creamed  sauce  over  it  when,  serving  it. 

Ham  a  La  Hemande. — Take  a  large  slice  of  ham,  cut  off  in 
small  pieces  some  of  the  fat,  and  place  them  on  top  of  the  ham, 
together  with  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion  and  parsley. 
Baste  the  ham  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Sauce. — Add  one 
tablespoon  of  flour  to  the  fat  in  the  pan,  and  one  cup  of  milk, 
keep  stirring  until  it  boils,  then  add  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  green  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  ham. 

—Mrs.  W.  G.  VanDeusen. 


26 


Chicken  a  La  Baltimore. — Prepare  a  chicken  as  for  roast- 
ing, and  cut  into  8  pieces ;  dip  each  piece  in  eggs  and  cracker 
dust  or  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  buttered  roasting  pan  and 
roast  35  minutes.  Baste  with  melted  butter,  if  dry.  Sauce 
for  Chicken. — Place  the  giblets  and  the  feet  in  one  quart  of 
cold  water,  one  onion,  a  little  parsley,  celery,  one  bay  leaf  in  a 
pan  to  boil.  When  the  chicken  is  done,  make  sauce  of  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  to  two  tablespoon  of  flour  added  to  the 
broth.    Pour  over  chicken.  — Mrs.  Knight. 

Beef  Loaf. — Two  pounds  beef,  1  pound  fresh  pork, 
pound  salt  pork,  ground  fine,  10  crackers  rolled,  y2  cup  cold 
milk,  salt,  pepper,  5  eggs.    Bake  in  loaf  about  2  hours. 

—Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 


27 


28 


VEGETABLES. 

"  The  onion  strong,  the  parsnip  sweet,  the  twining  bean,  the 
ruddy  beet;  yea,  all  the  garden  brings  to  light,  speaks 
of  a  landscape  of  delight." 

Time  for  Cooking  Summer  Vegetables. — 

Dandelions   boiled  ll/2  hours. 

Spinach   •     "      1  hour. 

String  beans   "     2  hours. 

Green  peas   "     l/2  hour. 

Beets    "      1  hour. 

Turnips    "      1  hour. 

Squash    "      1  hour. 

Potatoes   "     y2  hour. 

Corn    "     20  minutes. 

Asparagus    "     20  minutes. 

Time  for  Cooking  Winter  Vegetables. — 

White  potatoes  boiled  l/2  hour. 

White  potatoes  baked  1  hour. 

Sweet  potatoes   boiled  24  hour. 

Sweet  potatoes   baked  1  hour. 

Squash   boiled  1  hour. 

Turnips    "  2  hours. 

Beets    "  3y2  hours. 

Parsnips   "  1  hour. 

Carrots   "  \J/2  hours. 

Cabbage   "  3  hours. 

Curried  Vegetables. — Dice  one  cup  each  of  yellow  turnips, 
carrots,  and  potatoes ;  put  turnips  to  cook  in  boiling  salt  water, 
when  about  half  done  add  carrots,  then  at  last  potatoes  and 
cook  until  all  are  done.  Make  a  milk  sauce  of  2  cups  of  milk, 
butter  size  of  an  egg  and  thicken  with  flour.  Heat  J/2  can  of 
peas,  pouring  off  liquor,  and  add  to  vegetables.  Pour  milk 
sauce  over  vegetables,  adding  teaspoon  of  curry  powder, 
and  season.  — O.  A.  McAdams. 

Oyster  Plant. — Scrape  and  cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil 
until  tender.  Drain  off  the  water  and  mash  while  hot,  adding 
two  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  one  egg. 
Make  in  small  cakes  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat.    Serve  hot. 

—Mrs.  K.  C.  H. 

Corn  Oysters. — One-half  dozen  ears  of  corn  scraped  from 
the  cob,  salt  and  pepper,  two  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  ]/2  cup  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Fry  like  fritters  in  very  hot 
fat. 


29 


Green  Corn  Pudding. — One  can  of  corn  or  1  full  pint  of 
corn  cut  from  the  cob,  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  2  table- 
spoons of  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  2  cups 
milk,  salt,  spoon  of  salaratus,  small  pinch  baking  soda.  Drain 
all  liquor  from  corn  and  chop  fine ;  add  to  this  the  eggs,  sugar, 
butter,  salt  and  milk  into  which  you  have  stirred  the  soda. 
Turn  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  and  bake  for  y2  hour,  then 
uncover  and  brown.  — Mrs.  K.  C.  H. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. — Break  12  sticks  of  macaroni  into 
inch  lengths,  and  cook  in  3  pints  of  boiling  water  salted  for 
20  minutes ;  turn  in  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over  it  and 
drain.  Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  and  \y2  cups  of  milk,  a  little  salt ;  cook  until  thick.  Put 
a  layer  of  cheese  in  bottom  of  baking  dish,  then  one  of 
macaroni,  then  1  of  sauce  and  so  on  until  dish  is  filled.  Cover 
top  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  well 
done.  —Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Select  ripe,  firm  tomatoes,  cut  a  piece 
off  the  top  of  each  and  remove  pulp.  Chop  pulp,  celery,  a 
little  sweet  pepper,  fried  bacon,  corn  or  any  vegetable.  Mix 
these  with  a  small  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugar 
and  a  bit  of  chopped  onion  and  enough  bread  crumbs  to 
thicken.  Refill  tomato  shells  with  mixture,  place  in  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  y2  hour.      — Mrs.  C.  S.  Warner. 

Potatoes  Au  Gratin. — Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Make  a 
cream  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour,  1  level 
teaspoon  of  salt,  y%  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  butter  in  sauce 
pan,  add  flour  and  seasoning.  When  hot,  add  milk  gradually 
and  cook  smoothly.  Use  milk  enough  to  make  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream.  Add  potatoes  and  put  in  baking 
dish  a  layer  at  a  time  of  potatoes  and  finely  chopped  cheese, 
until  dish  is  filled.    Bake  about  10  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

—Mrs.  C.  S.  Warner. 

Potato  Puff. — Three  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  iy2  cups  milk,  1  egg  well  beaten,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Mix  all  together  and  put  in  baking  dish;  dab  small 
pieces  of  butter  over  top  of  puff  and  bake  20  minutes  to  y2 
hour  in  hot  oven.  —Mrs.  McBride. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. — Cut  potatoes  thin  and  put  in  layers  in 
baking  dish  well  buttered ;  season  with  a  little  onion,  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt,  pieces  of  butter.  Cover,  With  m)ilk  and 
cracker  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  1  hour  or  more  in  good  oven, 
covered  for  yA  of  an  hour.  —Mrs.  Andrews. 

French  Fried  Potatoes.— Cut  raw  potatoes  into  lengthwise 
strips  and  soak  in  cold  water  y2  hour,  drying  well  on  a  towel. 
Have  frying  pan  or  kettle  y2  full  of  lard  or  drippings  so  hot 


30 


you  can  see  it  smoke.  Place  potatoes  in  frying  basket  and 
cook  in  fat  15  or  20  minutes.  When  done,  drain  on  brown 
paper  and  serve  at  once.  — D.  H. 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes. — Boil,  peel  and  slice  sweet 
potatoes.  Arrange  them  in  layers  in  a  baking  dish,  strewing 
each  layer  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  little  granulated  sugar 
and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  covered  for  20  minutes,  then  un- 
cover and  brown.  When  ready  to  serve  add  1  wine  glass  of 
sherry  wine,  ignite  and  carry  to  table  burning.      — K.  C.  H. 

Creamed  Mushrooms. — Melt  2  large  tablespoons  of  butter, 
but  do  not  boil ;  then  stir  in  gradually  the  same  quantity  of 
flour  until  it  froths  well.  Stir  constantly  and  add  slowly  1^2 
pints  of  milk,  taking  care  that  it  is  smooth.  When  it  has 
boiled  add  1  cup  of  beaten  cream  and  beat  lightly  with  spoon. 
Add  two  cans  of  mushrooms  and  let  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Serve  on  toast.  — K.  C.  H. 

Corn  and  Tomatoes. — Skin  and  cook  ripe  tomatoes  as  for 
stewed  tomatoes.  When  about  half  cooked,  add  sweet  corn 
which  has  been  scored  and  scraped  from  the  ear,  so  as  to  get 
as  little  as  possible  of  the  fibre  of  the  grains.  Stir  frequently 
after  adding  the  corn.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and 
butter  to  taste.  — Mrs.  Washburn. 

Fried  Cucumbers. — Take  large  green  cucumbers,  peel, 
slice  and  soak  in  salt  water  about  \y2  hours.  Then  drain, 
dip  in  a  well  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  or  flour  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.    Just  as  good  as  egg  plant.  — E.  B.  D. 

Fried  Bananas. — Select  firm  fruit,  peel,  slice  lengthwise 
and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  on  each  slice.  Roll  in 
egg  and  flour  or  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

German  Fried  Potatoes. — Fry  a  tablespoonful  of  minced 
onion  and  a  little  parsley  in  pork,  fat,  or  butter.  Add  2  cups 
of  sliced  potatoes  raw,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  Yx  teaspoon  of 
pepper  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Beat  1  egg  light,  pour  over 
the  potato  and  take  up  at  once  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

— Delia  Haran. 

Cauliflower  Au  Gratin. — Boil  a  cauliflower  very  tender, 
but  keep  it  whole.  Place  in  baking  dish  and  cover  with  pieces 
of  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Make  a  rich  cream  sauce,  pour 
over  and  bake  in  oven  until  a  nice  brown. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Bake  large  potatoes  and  remove  potato 
from  shells,  taking  care  not  to  break  shells.  Mash  potatoes 
with  plenty  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  parsley,  adding 
a  little  rich  cream.  Put  potatoes  back  in  shells  very  lightly, 
spread  with  white  of  an  egg  beaten.  Set  in  hot  oven  and 
brown  quickly.  — E.  B.  D. 


31 


Corn  Ragout. — Cut  scraps  of  ham  or  bacon  in  small 
squares,  fry  brown,  add  6  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  and 
the  grains  from  6  ears  of  corn ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  sea- 
son with  red  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  slowly  hour.  Serve 
hot  on  hot  toast  or  fried  bread.  — Mrs.  Crosby. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Take  large  ripe  tomatoes,  do  not  peel, 
but  scoop  out  the  soft  part  and  add  bread  crumbs,  a  little 
chopped  onions,  sweet  pepper  and  parsley  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Moisten  with  melted  butter  or  meat  gravy  and  fill 
tomato  shells  lightly.  Place  in  baking  pan  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  about  ^  hour,  or  until  a  light  brown. 

— Mrs.  Washburn. 

Baked  Beans. — One  quart  of  small  white  beans,  y2  pound 
all  fat  salt  pork,  one-third  cup  of  molasses.  Soak  beans  over 
night,  boil  very  soft  in  water,  then  add  molasses,  salt  to  taste, 
and  pork  after  cutting  off  rind  and  scoring.  Bake  for  six 
hours  or  more,  in  slow  oven.  Add  more  water,  if  necessary, 
and  cover  tight,  if  likely  to  burn.  — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Cold  Slaw. — Slice  or  chop  x/2  small  head  of  cabbage  To 
Yt  cup  of  vinegar  add  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  at  the  last  1  cup  of 
cream.  Beat  well  and  add  to  cabbage  and  serve  at  once. 
Salt  to  taste.  — Mrs.  Gould. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — One  pound  of  soft  American  cheese  cut  in 
small  dice,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  Y\  tea- 
spoon of  mustard,  %  CUP  °f  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce.  Put  cheese  and  butter  in  pan  and  cook  until 
cheese  is  melted,  add  salt,  mustard  and  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  stir  constantly.  Add  milk  slowly  and  when  smooth  and 
creamy  serve  on  toasted  bread  squares.  — Easthampton. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. — Peel  and  slice  egg  plant  in  1-inch  thick 
slices  ;  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  or  flour  and  fry  in  deep, 
hot  fat.  When  done,  absorb  fat  by  placing  on  brown  paper  in 
oven.  — Delia  Haran. 

Tomato  Fritters. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  stewed 
tomatoes,  1%  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
salt. 


32 


33 


MEAT  AND  VEGETABLE  SAUCES. 

Brown  Flour. — Sift  1  cup  of  flour  into  a  pie  tin  and  set  it 
on  the  top  of  the  stove.  Watch  closely,  stirring-  frequently  to 
see  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  taking  care  to  prevent  it  stick- 
ing to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Remove  when  brown.  Can 
be  kept  in  glass  for  a  long  time. 

Drawn  Butter. — Rub  together  until  smooth  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  in  sauce  pan  over  fire ; 
when  smooth,  but  not  brown,  add  about  2  cups  of  warm  milk, 
stirring  continually  until  smooth.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  add  cream,  if  desired. 

Tartare  Sauce. — Mix  well  together  y2  teaspoon  of  mustard, 
1  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar,  y>  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little 
paprika.  Beat  yolk  of  1  egg  well,  adding  gradually  y2  cup 
of  olive  oil  (scant),  and  \y2  teaspoons  of  vinegar;  add  first 
mixture  to  egg  and  when  well  beaten,  add  a  little  onion  juice 
and  2  chopped  olives  and  parsley.         — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. — Put  yolks  of  5  eggs  into  a  small  sauce 
pan  and  beat  until  smooth ;  place  on  warm  stove  and  gradually 
pour  y>  cup  of  melted  butter  into  it,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  the  mixture  thickens,  but  do  not  boil.  Add  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  a  little  cayenne.  A  little  cornstarch  can  be  used 
to  thicken,  if  necessary.  — Delia  Haran. 

Mock  Hollandaise  Sauce. — Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  J/2  cup  of  milk. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  stir  in 
yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  lightly,  and  one-third  cup  of  butter, 
bit  by  bit.  Remove  from  stove  when  thick,  add  1  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  — E.  B.  D. 

Celery  Sauce. — Scrape  the  outside  stalks  of  celery  and 
cut  in  pieces  1  inch  long;  let  stand  in  cold  water  y2  hour, 
then  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender ;  drain 
off  the  water  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  milk  or  cream ; 
thicken  with  a  little  flour.  '  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Mint  Sauce. — One-half  cup  of  vinegar,  y2  cup  of  water,  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  scald  together ;  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  dozen 
leaves  of  fresh  mint,  chopped  fine,  thrown  in  while  scalding, 
and  lastly,  a  little  salt.  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Two  large  tomatoes  or  1  cup  of  canned 
tomatoes,  y2  of  a  sweet  green  pepper  and  1  onion,  chopped,  1 
bay  leaf ;  cover  with  1  large  cup  of  water  and  cook  for  y2 


34 


hour.  Strain  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  a  little 
butter,  pinch  of  sugar  and  thicken  with  cornstarch,  while  hot. 

— Mrs.  Shelton. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Allow  1  large  cup  of  water  to  1  cup  of 
cranberries,  and  boil  until  tender.  Strain  through  jelly  cloth 
and  bring  to  boil  before  adding  1  small  cup  of  sugar  to  each 
cup  of  juice.  Allow  to  come  to  a  boil,  pour  in  mold  and  let 
stand  24  hours.  — E.  B.  D. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Chop  1  tablespoon  of  onion  and  fry  in 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  a  nice  brown;  add  3  tablespoons  of 
stewed  tomatoes,  y2  cup  of  mushrooms,  cut  fine,  1  pint  of 
soup  stock  and  1  tablespoon  of  sherry  wine ;  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  teaspoon  of  dried 
parsley.    Thicken  with  a  little  flour.  — D.  H. 

Supreme  Sauce  for  Fried  Chicken. — One  tablespoon  each 
of  butter,  thick  cream  and  chopped  parsley,  y2  pint  of  chicken 
stock,  1  tablespoon  flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Melt  the  butter,  but  do  not  brown ;  add  flour,  mix 
until  smooth  and  then  add  stock.  Stir  continually  until  it 
boils,  then  add  cream.  Take  from  stove,  add  beaten  eggs, 
parsley  and  seasoning.    Pour  over  fried  chicken. 


35 


36 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS. 

Salad  Dressing. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  y2  teaspoon  of 
salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  mustard,  l/[  teaspoon  of  pepper,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  y2  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  together  and  place 
in  a  bowl ;  put  bowl  in  boiling  water,  stirring  the  mixture  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  — Mrs.  Prutting. 

Mayonnaise. — Beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  very  light,  adding  1 
teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  also  a  pinch  of 
sugar;  then  add  a  few  drops  of  salad  oil,  stirring  constantly, 
then  a  little  vinegar,  then  oil,  then  vinegar,  and  so  on,  until 
the  mixture  is  of  the  proper  consistency.  Half  lemon  juice 
and  half  vinegar  can  be  used,  if  desired.        — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. — Mix  well  together  1  small  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Place  in  double  boiler  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  and  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add 
the  above  mixture  to  this  and  when  butter  is  melted,  add  one- 
third  cup  vinegar  hot.  Cook  until  thick,  about  two  minutes, 
then  take  from  stove  and  beat  for  several  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Simonson. 

French  Dressing. — Mix  1  tablespoon  of  salad  oil  with  1 
salt  spoon  of  salt  and  1  pepper  spoon  of  pepper ;  when  mixed, 
add  2  more  tablespoons  of  oil  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 
beating  well  before  throwing  over  salad.  — E.  B.  D. 

Chicken  Salad. — Cut  cold  roasted  or  boiled  chicken  into 
dice  and  mix  with  French  dressing,  set  away  to  chill.  When 
ready  to  serve,  add  celery  cut  very  fine,  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with 
sliced  boiled  eggs  and  olives.  — Mrs.  Washburn. 

Salmon  Salad  and  Dressing. — Beat  2  eggs,  add  6  table- 
spoons of  cream  well  beaten,  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  two-thirds  teaspoon  of  pepper,  \y2  table- 
spoons mustard,  wet,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
of  vinegar.  Boil  vinegar  and  sugar  together  first,  then  add 
the  rest  and  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  set  away  to 
cool.  Chop  the  contents  of  1  can  of  salmon  and  twice  the 
quantity  of  celery;  when  ready  to  serve  add  dressing  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  — Mrs.  Prutting. 

Waldorf  Salad. — One  cup  of  apples  cut  fine,  1  cup  malaga 
grapes,  cut  in  halves  and  seeded,  2  cups  of  celery,  1  cup  of 
English  walnuts.  Make  dressing  of  yolk  of  1  egg,  3  table- 
spoons sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  l/2 
teaspoon  of  mustard,  pinch  of  cayenne,  l/2  cup  of  vinegar,  but- 
ter size  of  a  walnut.    Cream  egg  and  sugar,  add  flour,  salt, 


37 


pepper  and  mustard,  creaming  all  well.  Boil  vinegar  and 
butter,  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  the  other  mixture ;  beat 
until  smooth.  Then  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
This  makes  ^  pint.  Whip  ^  pint  of  cream  and  add  to 
dressing  a  little  at  a  time.  — Mrs.  C.  S.  Warner 

Fruit  Salad  and  Dressing. — Mix  salad  of  chopped  apples, 
celery,  seeded  white  grapes  and  English  walnuts.  Mix  well 
with  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  grape  fruit 
cups.  Make  dressing  of  2  small  teaspoons  of  mustard  made 
to  a  paste  with  cold  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  small  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  a  scant  ^4  cup  of  vinegar,  ]/2  cup  of  cream,  2 
eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch.  Mix  vinegar, 
salt  and  sugar  with  the  mustard  paste ;  add  eggs,  then  cream. 
Heat  slowly  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thick; 
add  small  piece  of  butter  and  take  from  fire.  When  ready  to 
serve,  add  1  cup  of  whipoed  cream  and  a  few  drops  of  salad 
oil.  —Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Bean  Salad. — Take  can  of  beans  or  cold  string  beans. 
Make  dressing  of  24  CUP  °f  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1 
teaspoon  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  egg  well  beaten, 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  when 
cold  pour  over  the  beans  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

— K.  C.  W. 

Cold  Slaw. — Shave  cabbage  fine.  Make  dressing  of 
1  coffee  cup  of  vinegar  and  water,  equal  parts,  1  tablespoon 
of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  egg, 
pepper  and  salt.  Stir  all  together  free  from  lumps,  put  in 
saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  immediately  over  cab- 
bage and  serve  hot  or  cold.  — K.  C.  H. 

Potato  Salad.— Either  cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  dice  or 
slices,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  in  a  little  finely- 
minced  onion.  Make  mayonnaise  dressing,  adding  a  little 
more  vinegar  than  you  would  for  a  meat  salad.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves  with  sliced  boiled  eggs  on  top.     — Delia  Haran. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad. — Use  large,  firm  tomatoes  and  cut 
off  the  stem  ends,  removing  the  pulp  with  a  spoon.  Chop 
very  fine  celery  stalks,  a  little  onion,  sweet  green  pepper, 
adding  the  tomato  pulp.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and 
place  in  tomato  cups  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Cheese 
balls  are  a  great  addition  to  this  dish.  Mix  a  little  finely- 
chopped  pepper  into  cream  cheese,  and  form  into  small  balls. 
Place  on  the  lettuce  leaves  around  the  tomatoes. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Shrimp  Salad. — One  can  of  shrimp  and  two  dozen  of 
stuffed  or  plain  olives  chopped  fine.  Mix  with  a  little  salad 
dressing.  When  ready  to  serve,  roll  in  balls,  place  on 
lettuce  leaves  and  pour  more  salad  dressing  on  top. 

— Mrs.  C.  B.  Valentine. 


38 


39 


CAKES. 

With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true, 
Oven  of  even  heat, 
Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 
Success  will  be  complete. 

One-Egg  Layer  Cake. — One  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  ^4  CUP  milk  or  cream,  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  flavoring.      — Mrs.  Norton. 

Light  Cake. — Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  34  cup  of  butter, 
y2  cup  sweet  milk,  \y2  cups  flour,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  E.  D.  F.  vanilla  extract,  and  a 
little  salt.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  beat  thoroughly.  Then  add  milk,  beat  whites  of  eggs 
to  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  above  mixture.  Mix  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar  in  flour  and  sift  twice  to  get  thoroughly  mixed. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  y2  hour. 

—Mrs.  L.  W.  Renfrew. 

Addie  Cake. — Three  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter, 
scant,  1  cup  of  water,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3  cups  of 
flour  and  flavoring.    Makes  3  layers  and  1  small  cake. 

—Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 

Sponge  Cake. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of 
hot  milk  last.    Get  everything  all  measured  before  beginning. 

—Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Sponge  Layer  Cake. — Four  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  heaping, 
1  heaping  cup  of  flour,  3  tablespoons  of  milk,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  very  quick 
oven.  — Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 

Sponge  Loaf  Cake. — Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  add  \y2  cups  of  sugar  to  whites,  then  add  yolks,  2 
cups  flour,  and  to  the  last  cupful  add  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  and  two-thirds  cup  of  boiling  water,  little  at  a  time. 
Flavor.  —Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 

Delicate  Cake. — Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  \y2 
cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  butter,  2y2  cups  of 
flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  salt  and  flavor  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  Geo.  Conover. 

Lincoln  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder,  flavor  to  taste.  — Mrs.  Isabelle  Spencer. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2 
cups  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of 


40 


baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  shallow  pan 
and  frost  with  3  heaping  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  yolks 
of  3  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.    Beat  well. 

—-Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Snowflake  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  %  pound  of  but- 
ter, 3  cups  of  flour,  6  eggs,  1  cup  of  water.  Frost  with  whites 
of  4  eggs,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cocoanut,  and  juice 
of  1  lemon.  —Mrs.  Isabelle  Spencer. 

Queen's  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2y> 
cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  raisins,  3  small  eggs,  1J4 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  nutmeg  and  brandy,  if  desired. 
Makes  two  loaves.  — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Silver  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup 
of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda, 
whites  of  4  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour,  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla. 

Ribbon  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  milk,  4  scant  cups  of  flour,  4  even  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  and  4  eggs.  To  one-third  of  this  mixture  add  4  tea- 
spoons of  cinnamon,  y2  teacup  of  raisins  and  y2  teacup  of 
currants,  %  cup  of  citron.  Bake  in  3  shallow  pans  and  put 
layers  together  with  a  little  jelly.  — Mrs.  Courter. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  pound 
of  butter,  %  of  pound  of  flour,  5  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking- 
powder,  1  cocoanut  grated,  y2  cup  of  milk. 

— Mrs.  I.  E.  Spencer. 

Lemon  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sugar, 
creamed,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  rind  and  juice 
of  y2  lemon,  2  scant  cups  of  pastry  flour,  sifted,  with  y2  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  y2  cup  of  milk.  Add  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten 
stiff.    Bake  in  moderate  oven.  — M.  I.  S. 

Lemon  Loaf  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  V2  cup  of 
melted  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoo'ns  of 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  E.  D.  F.  lemon  extract.  Beat 
sugar  and  eggs  well,  add  melted  butter,  milk  and  flavoring, 
then  flour  with  baking  powder.  Bake  in  long,  shallow  pan,  in 
moderate  oven. 

Frosting. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar, 
teaspoon  E.  D.  F.  lemon  extract,  scant  y  cup  of  boiling  milk. 
Stir  well  and  spread  on  cake  after  cake  is  cold. 

— Mrs.  A.  W.  Warner. 

Orange  Cake. — Four  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2y2  cups  of 
flour,  2  oranges,  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  level  spoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Beat  yolks  and  whites  separate,  then  to- 
gether. Beat  sugar  in  gradually,  then  juice  of  \y2  oranges, 
adding  water  to  make  a  cupful.    Fold  flour  in. 


41 


Frosting. — Butter  size  of  an  egg,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
^2  orange,  then  confectioner's  sugar.      — Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 

Maple  Sugar  Cake. — Beat  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  with 
2  ounces  of  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  to  2  scant  cups  of  sifted  flour,  y> 
cup  of  milk,  and  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Bake  in  2  layers 
and  put  together  with  the  following  frosting :  Boil  a  cup 
of  maple  syrup  until  it  spins  a  thread,  and  pour  gradually 
while  hot  into  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  continue  to  beat 
until  thick  enough  to  spread.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Nut  Cake. — Six  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  \]/2  cups  of  butter, 
and  6  cups  of  flour,  \y2  cups  of  milk,  1  quart  of  walnuts, 
after  shelled,  1  pint  of  raisins,  then  yeast  powder.  Bake 
slowly  iy2  to  2  hours.  — Mrs.  I.  E.  Spencer. 

Nut  Cake. — Two  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  nut  meats,  1  teaspoon  of  E. 
D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and 
2  eggs.  Then  cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  yolks,  add  flavor- 
ing; add  alternately  milk  and  flour  and  lastty  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  very  stiff.  —Mrs.  Macoy. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  salt  spoon  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  cloves,  and  1  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  1  pinch  of  nutmeg,  1  cup  of  unsweetened  apple 
sauce,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  water,  1^4  cups  of  flour, 

1  cup  of  raisins.  — Mrs.  G.  G.  Andrews. 

Pork  Cake. — One  pound  of  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  2  tea- 
spoons of  boiling  water  on  the  pork,  2  teaspoons  of  molasses, 

2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  spices 
and  soda,  1  pound  of  chopped  raisins.  Add  flour,  but  do  not 
make  batter  too  stiff.  — Mrs.  A.  M.  Howe. 

Sweet  Potato  Cake. — Three  heaping  cups  of  sweet  potato 
ground  very  fine,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  each  of  currants  and 
raisins,  Y\  pound  of  citron,  1  tablespoon  of  spices,  y2  teaspoon 
of  salt,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon.    Bake  1  hour  in  slow  oven. 

— Mrs.  G.  G.  Andrews. 

Spice  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  y>  cup 
of  butter,  y2  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, sifted  with  the  flour,  and  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  milk,  y2  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  \l/2  teaspoons  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger.         — Mrs.  W.  G.  Van  Deusen. 

Spice  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk  or 
strong  coffee,  3  tablespoons  of  shortening,  1  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  y2  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  a  little  salt,  L)4 
cups  of  flour.  — Mrs.  Wm.  Schell. 


42 


Chocolate  Cake. — Cream  y2  cup  of  butter  and  2  cups 
granulated  sugar,  add  1  cup  of  water  and  3  cups  of  flour. 
Flavor  to  taste  and  next  fold  in  the  whites  of  5  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth,  last  stir  in  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Icing. — Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  boil  2  small  cups  of 
granulated  sugar  in  1  cup  of  water  until  it  spins  a  thread. 
Grate  a  square  of  bitter  chocolate  over  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  same  very  slowly  and  beat  to  a  cream. 

—Mrs.  C.  S.  Warner. 

Black  Chocolate  Cake. — One  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
1/2  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  milk,  1  pint  of  flour,  3  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Take  3  squares  of  Baker's  choco- 
late, 3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water  and  boil 
2  or  3  minutes.  When  cold,  thin  with  one-third  cup  of  milk, 
and  add  to  cake.    Bake  in  2  layers. 

Milk  Icing. — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and  y2  cup  of 
milk ;  stir  until  it  boils,  then  stop  stirring  and  .boil  5  minutes. 
Beat  fast  until  thick,  and  flavor  with  E.  D.  F.  extract  of 
vanilla.    If  too  hard,  soften  with  a  little  cold  milk. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Chocolate  Fudge  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  but- 
ter, 2  eggs,  Yi  cup  of  milk,  \y>  cups  of  flour,  \y2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  y2 
teaspoon  of  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla.    Bake  in  2  layers. 

Filling. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk 
and  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Make  like  fudge  and  spread  be- 
tween layers,  but  do  not  ice  top.  — Mrs.  Geo.  Conover. 

Sour  Milk  Chocolate  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  2  eg-gs,  3  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  dissolved  in  V2 
cup  of  boiling  water,  y2  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  large  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter.   Bake  in  layers.  — Mrs.  Fiero. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Melt  \y2  squares  of  chocolate  over  hot 
water ;  beat  yolk  of  1  egg  with  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  add 
to  melted  chocolate.  Cook  until  thick,  being  careful  not  to 
burn.  Cream  1  tablespoon  of  butter  with  1  cup  of  sugar, 
add  chocolate  mixture,  y2  cup  of  milk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  1 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  E. 
D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla.    Bake  in  either  loaf  or  layers. 

— Mrs.  L.  W.  Renfrew. 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake.— One  cup  of  sugar  and  2  eggs,  ^4 
cup  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  E.  D.  F.  ex- 
tract of  vanilla,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Beat  sugar  and  eggs  well,  then  add  butter,  vanilla,  milk,  flour 
and  bakino-  powder.    Bake  in  3  lavers  in  quick  oven. 

—Mrs.  A.  W.  Warner. 


43 


Mocha  Layer  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter, 
3  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  and  y2  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Filling. — One  cup  of  confectioner's  sugar,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  2  teaspoons  of  E.  D.  F.  extract  of 
vanilla,  2  tablespoons  of  cold  soffee,  cream  together  and  put 
between  layers.    Do  not  cook.  — Mrs.  Geo.  Conover. 

Mocha  Tart. — One  cup  of  sugar,  small  teaspoon  butter,  2 
eggs>  CUP  of  milk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,.  1  tablespoon  of  coffee  essence,  y2  pint  of  cream 
whipped  until  stiff,  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  coffee  essence,  or 
if  vanilla  layer  is  desired,  use  same  amount  of  vanilla  extract. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  2  eggs ;  after  they  are 
well  beaten  add  milk  and  1  cup  of  sifted  flour  with  1  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder;  after  you  have  stirred  same  thor- 
oughly, add  the  other  y2  cup  of  flour  and  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.    Then  add  essence.    Bake  about  15  minutes. 

—Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Hermits. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  but- 
ter, 3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  y2  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup 
of  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon  of  alspice,  1  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, y2  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  dough 
of  medium  stiffness.  Drop  a  little  thicker  than  cookies  in 
pans,  bake  in  moderate  oven,  mark  off  and  cut  into  squares 
while  hot.  —Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Hermits. — Two  scant  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately, 2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves,  1  cup 
chopped  raisins,  y2  cup  of  currants,  and  1  cup  of  chopped 
English  walnut  meats;  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk,  to  the  milk  add  y>  teaspoon 
of  baking  soda,  add  other  ingredients,  and  lastly  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Drop  from  teaspoon  onto  greased 
pan  and  bake  in  medium  oven.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Cinnamon  Lunch  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar  and  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  While  cake  is  hot,  spread  melted  butter  and 
cinnamon  on  top,  and  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

—Mrs.  W.  P.  Courter. 

Molasses  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  molasses,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon and  mace  mixed,  2  eggs,  2y2  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of 
milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk.  Warm  together 
slightly,  butter,  molasses,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  mace  ;  beat 
eggs  light  and  add  to  above  mixture ;  then  the  flour,  milk  and 
soda.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  — Miss  H.  Cain. 


44 


Molasses  Cake. — One  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  lard,  lit- 
tle salt,  Yi  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  y2  cup  of  water,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  2  teaspoons  of  ginger,  lJ/2  cups 
of  flour.  Do  not  make  too  stiff;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  eat 
warm. 

Frosting. — One  cup  of  sugar  and  one-third  cup  of  water. 
Boil  until  it  strings,  then  pour  on  to  1  egg  to  a  froth,  and  2 
squares  of  chocolate  grated.    Beat  until  thick. 

—Mrs.  Walter  McDougalL 

Molasses  Drop  Cakes. — One  egg,  1  cup  of  lard  and  butter 
mixed,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  ^4  CUP  °f  h°t  water, 
and  2  teaspoons  of  salaratus,  1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger  and 
cinnamon  and  salt,  4  cups  of  flour.  Mix  and  drop  in  pans, 
with  raisin  on  top  of  each,  and  sprinkle  sugar  on  top. 

— Mrs.  E.  Fish. 

Ginger  Cakes. — One  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1 
tablespoon  of  soda,  1  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  tablespoon 
of  ginger,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon.    Flour  enough  to  roll. 

— Mrs.  I.  E.  Spencer. 

Ginger  Bread. — One  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Pour  together  and  stir  up  quickly,  y2  cup  of  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  egg  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon  or 
ginger.  — Mrs.  Fiero. 

Molasses  Cookies. — One  teaspoon  ginger.  1  teaspoon  soda, 
3  tablespoons  of  boiling  water,  4  tablespoons  melted  lard. 
Put  all  in  a  cup  and  fill  with  molasses,  add  salt  and  flour  to 
stiffen.  — Mrs.  Barringer. 

Sugar  Cookies. — One  cup  of  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  Ay2 
cups  of  flour,  2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  y2  tea- 
spoon soda.  2  full  tablespoons  of  milk,  salt  and  caraway  seeds. 
Roll  very  thin  and  bake".  — 3.1.  I.  S.,  Boston. 

Nut  Cookies. — Eight  tablespoons  of  sugar,  6  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  4  tablespoons  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  of  nuts ;  flour  to  make  thick  batter. 

— Mrs.  K.  C.  Hartfield. 
Jackson's  Snaps. — Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard, 

2  cups  of  molasses,  2  teaspoons  of  soda,  salt  and  spice,  flour 
enough  to  roll  out.  —  Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 

Walnut  Wafers. — One-third  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  1 
cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  egg  well  beaten  and  about  %  cup  of 
flour,  1  cup  of  walnut  meats  chopped  fine.  Drop  on  buttered 
pans  in  pieces  about  as  large  as  a  walnut.  Bake  and  let  stand 
until  cool  before  taking  from  pans.  — Mrs.  Prutting. 

Crullers. — One  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  2  eggs,  1  scant  pint  of  milk,  2  large  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder ;  flavor  with  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll.  —Mrs.  I.  Spencer. 


45 


Crullers. — Three  eggs,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of  butter, 
3  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  milk, 
y2  nutmeg.    Roll,  cut  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Sugar  Cakes. — -One  pound  of  butter  and  2  pounds  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  10  eggs,  flour  enough  to  roll,  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  rose  water. 

Doughnuts. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  1  large  cup  of  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  small  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  flour  and 
salt.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract  and  nutmeg.  Stir  all  to- 
gether, then  add  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Cut  and  let 
stand  \y2  hours,  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat. 

— M.  I.  S„  Boston. 
Bangor  Brownies. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  E.  D.  F.  ex- 
tract of  vanilla,  2  squares  of  melted  chocolate,  y2  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts.  Mix  well,  spread  in  buttered  pan  and 
bake  10  or  15  minutes.  — Mrs.  G.  G.  Andrews. 

Egg  Puffs, — Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  2  cups 
confectioner's  sugar  with  3  tablespoons  cornstarch  mixed  in 
with  sugar,  flavor  with  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla.  Beat  all 
together ;  drop  into  buttered  gem  pans  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

—Miss  O.  A.  McAdams. 

"Wine  Drops. — Two  heaping  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  dark 
brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  currants,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  of 
soda,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  y2  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoon nutmegs,  ^4  cup  of  melted  lard,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  y, 
cup  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  well,  and  drop  from  large  spoon  in 
pan  and  bake.  — Mrs.  Horn. 

Scotch  Macaroons. — Cream  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  y2 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  When  thor- 
oughly mixed,  add  y2  cup  more  of  sugar,  2y>  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  2y2  cups  of  rolled  oats. 
Mix  well  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  \y2  tea- 
spoons of  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla ;  form  in  little  cakes  and 
bake  in  slow  oven.  — Miss  O.  A.  McAdams. 

Coffee  Cake. — Two  eggs,  y>  cup  of  butter,  y>  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, 24  CUP  °f  sugar,  y2  cup  of  cold  coffee,  2  cups  of  flour, 
y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour,  y2  cup  of  chopped  raisins. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  — Mrs.  W.  G.  Van  Deusen. 

Raisin  Cake. — One  pint  of  sour  milk,  3  cups  of  brown 
sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  quart  of  flour,  1  dessert  spoon  of 


46 


soda  dissolved  in  milk,  1  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon 
of  mixed  spices,  1  tablespoon  of  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Raisin  Puffs. — Two  eggs,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk, 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  2  cups  of  flour,  1 
cup  of  raisins ;  steam  one-half  hour  in  cups. 

Polka  Cake. — Four  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar, 

2  cups  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  strong  coffee,  4 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  1  pound  each  of  currants  and  raisins,  %  pound  of 
citron.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour.  Makes  two 
large  loaves.  — Mrs.  C.  R.  Page. 

Angel  Cake. — Whites  of  10  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  1  cup 
of  flour  sifted  4  times,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  \y2 
cups  of  sugar,  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  45  minutes,  but  do 
not  grease  pan.  — Miss  Slatcher. 

Angel  Food. — One  cup  of  eggs  with  whites  unbeaten 
(about  6  or  7  eggs),  1%  cups  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup 
of  sifted  bread  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  cream. of  tartar,  1  teaspoon 
of  almond  flavoring.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  until  frothy ;  put  in  cream  of  tartar  and  finish 
beating;  then  beat  in  the  sugar,  adding  the  flavoring  and 
folding  in  the  flour  lightly.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  y2  hour.  Sift  the  sugar  once,  the  flour  5 
times,  and  have  eggs  very  cold.  — Mrs.  M.  G.  Norton. 

White  Pound  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  \y2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Cream  1  cup  of  confectioner's 
sugar  with  y2  cup  of  butter.  Add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  then  y2  cup  of  milk,  and  last  add  the  flour.  A 
little  almond  extract  gives  a  nice  flavor. 

— Mrs.  Van  Deusen. 

Pound  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs 
beaten  very  light,  soda  size  of  a  pea  in  3  teaspoons  of  water  or 
milk,  1  cup  of  flour,  flavor  if  you  wish.       — M.  I.  S,,  Boston. 

Boston  Pound  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of 
white  sugar,  ^  of  a  pound  of  butter,  6  eggs,  1  cup  of  rich 
milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  juice  of  two  lemons  or 
2  teaspoons  of  almond  flavoring.  — Mrs.  C.  R.  Page. 

Eggless  Fruit  Cake. — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2  cups  of 
raisins,  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  shortening,  all  kinds  of 
spices,  4  cups  of  flour,  1  dessert  spoon  of  soda  in  milk. 

— Mrs.  Fiero. 

Fruit  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  mo- 
lasses, y2  cup  milk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  \y2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  (or  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with 


47 


the  flour,  and  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk),  y2 
nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  ginger,  1  teaspoon 
allspice.  — Mrs.  Van  Deusen. 

Wedding  Fruit  Cake. — Four  pounds  of  raisins,  1  pound  of 
prunes,  1  pound  of  citron,  2  pounds  of  currants,  1  pound  of 
butter,  1  pound  of  flour,  2  pounds  of  black  sugar,  1  pint  of 
molasses,  10  eggs,  3  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  \y2  teaspoons  of 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  allspice,  y2  orange  peel. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Good  Plain  Fruit  Cake. — One-half  pound  of  butter,  2  cups 
of  sugar,  5  eggs,  y2  cup  of  milk,  y2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  milk,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants,  y±.  pound  of 
peel  sliced  very  thin ;  stir  in  flour  until  quite  stiff.  Spice  to 
taste.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  5  hours. 

— Mrs.  G.  G.  Andrews. 

Raised  Cake. — Two  cups  of  dough,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  1  egg,  iy>  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
24  cup  of  raisins,  nutmeg.    Mix  well  with  the  hand. 

—Mrs.  S.  J.  Little. 

Sponge  Cake — Two  eggs  well  beaten  together,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  little 
salt.    Add  last,  y2  cup  of  hot  milk.  — Mrs.  S.  J.  Little. 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1^4  teaspoons 
soda,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  y2  cup  of  shortening,  melted,  2  tea- 
spoons of  ginger,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  soda  to  molasses 
and  beat  thoroughly;  add  milk,  shortening,  ginger,  salt  and 
enough  flour  to  make  mixture  stiff  enough  to  drop  easily 
from  spoon.  Let  stand  several  hours  in  a  cold  place.  Take 
y2  of  the  mixture  at  a  time,  roll  lightly  %  inch  thick,  and  cut 
with  biscuit  cutter.  — Mrs.  W.  P.  Courter. 

Fruit  Jumbles. — One  cup  butter,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
3  eggs,  y2  cup  milk,  Zy2  cups  flour,  y2  nutmeg,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  cup  of  raisins.  Bake  in  broad,  shallow  tin 
and  cut  in  squares  while  warm.  — Mrs.  S.  J.  Little. 


I 


48 


49 


FILLINGS  FOR  CAKES. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  water.  Let  boil 
until  it  spins  a  thread  from  a  spoon,  then  pour  gradually  into 
the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Spread  on 
cake  when  cool  enough  to  spread. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling. — One  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1 
square  Baker's  chocolate,  1  dessert  spoon  of  flour,  1  cup 
powdered  sugar.  Put  chocolate  in  double  boiler  until  melted, 
add  cream  and  scald.  Mix  dry  sugar  and  flour  and  stir  into 
scalded  cream ;  cook  for  y2  hour,  stirring  occasionally.  When 
cool  add  E.  D.  F.  extract  of  vanilla  and  spread. 

—Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Chocolate  Icing. — Beat  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  sugar 
into  the  unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Scrape  2  squares  of 
chocolate  and  put  in  pan  with  one-third  cup  of  sugar  and  4 
tablespoons  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  hot  fire  until  smooth 
and  glossy  and  then  into  the  whites  and  sugar.  This  quantity 
will  ice  two  cake  layers.  — Mrs.  McBride. 

Mocha  Frosting. — One  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  full 
cup  of  confectioner's  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  coffee,  2  table- 
spoons of  cocoa,  y2  teaspoon  of  E.  D.  F.  extract  vanilla. 

— Mrs.  Norton. 

Orange  Filling  for  Cake. — Juice  of  2  oranges,  1  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  1  egg.  Mix  yolk,  sugar  and  juice,  beat  white 
to  stiff  froth,  stir  together  and  spread.       — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Apple  Filling. — One  egg  well  beaten,  ^4  CUP  °f  sugar,  1 
grated  apple,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon.   Cook  10  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Van  Deusen. 

Uncooked  Filling. — Two  cups  of  confectioner's  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  of  butter.  Mix  smooth  with  hot  milk,  flavor  with 
E.  D.  F.  extract  vanilla.  For  chocolate  filling  add  2  table- 
spoons of  cocoa. 

Filling  for  Cake. — One  tablespoon  of  soft  butter,  1  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice,  3  tablespoons  of  orange  juice;  add 
grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to 
thicken.  — Mrs.  William  Schell. 

Filling  for  Minnehaha  Cake. — One-half  pound  of  figs,  y2 
pound  of  raisins,  y2  pound  of  walnuts.  Chop  and  put  on  stove 
with  a  little  water,  cooking  about  10  minutes.  Ice  top  of  cake 
and  put  on  walnut  meats.  — Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Cocoanut  Filling. — Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  until  stiff ;  add 
enough  powdered  sugar  to  spread  between  layers  and  on  top; 


50 


flavor  cake  with  a  little  lemon.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  cocoa- 
nut.  — Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Coffee  Caramel  Filling. — Two  cups  of  confectioner's  sugar, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  scant  tablespoonful  of  dry  cocoa,  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  coffee,  y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix 
well.  — Mrs.  William  G.  Van  Deusen. 

Caramel  Frosting. — Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  a  little  grated 
chocolate.  Boil  till  waxy  when  dropped  in  water.  This  is 
enough  for  2  cakes.  — Mrs.  A.  M.  Howe. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Filling. — Use  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  1  orange,  T/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water.  Boil, 
and  while  boiling  add  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  that  has 
been  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  boil  until  thick. 

— Mrs.  William  G.  Van  Deusen. 

Tutti  Frutti  Filling. — One  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  of 
chopped  raisins,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  juice  of 
y2  lemon,  powdered  sugar  to  stiffen. 

— Mrs.  William  G.  Van  Deusen. 

Mapleine  Cake  Filling. — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  ^4 
of  a  cup  of  milk,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  1 
teaspoonful  Mapleine.  Mix  the  sugar,  milk  and  butter  to- 
gether, boil  for  5  minutes,  take  from  fire,  stir  until  thick ;  then 
add  the  Mapleine,  stirring  it  in  slowly. 

— Mrs.  C.  B.  Valentine. 


51 


52 


PUDDINGS. 
"  The  Proof  of  the  Pudding  Lies  in  the  Eating." 

Queen  Bread  Pudding. — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart 
of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  grated  rind  of 
1  lemon,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  until  done.  Whip  whites 
of  the  eggs  stiff,  then  beat  in  1  cup  of  sugar  in  which  has  been 
stirred  the  juice  of  the  lemon;  spread  on  the  pudding  a  layer 
of  jelly,  pour  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  this  and  replace  in 
oven  until  brown.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Orient  Pudding. — One-quarter  pound  of  suet,  y2  pound  of 
flour,  2  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  y2  pound  sultanas,  y2  pint  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  suet  well  chopped  with  flour 
and  bread  crumbs ;  add  baking  powder  and  salt ;  mix  raisins 
in  well ;  beat  up  egg  in  milk  flavored  with  lemon  or  vanilla 
to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  adding  sugar.  Grease  dish  and 
bake  \y2  hours,  until  nicely  browned.  — Mrs.  McBride. 

Snow  Pudding. — One  box  of  Cooper's  gelatine,  3  pints  of 
boiling  water,  juice  of  3  lemons,  2  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  4 
eggs.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  for  30  minutes ; 
add  boiling  water  and  stir  until  dissolved;  add  lemon  juice  and 
sugar.  Set  to  congeal,  and  when  half  congealed  beat  with  egg 
beater.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  beat  into  the  jelly 
and  set  in  moulds  to  harden.    Serve  with  soft  custard. 

—Mrs.  McBride. 

Tapioca  Caramel. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  tapioca ; 
soak  over  night,  drain  off  the  water  and  add  1  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  quart  of  water,  salt 
to  taste  and  vanilla.  Bake  about  2  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  — O.  A.  McAdams. 

Rahm  Rice. — Boil  1  cup  of  rice  with  1  quart  of  milk  in  a 
double  boiler,  a  little  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  a  little 
salt.  Cook  very  slowly.  Soak  34  box  Knox  gelatine  in  a  little 
cold  water  a  minute,  then  add  to  rice,  and  when  it  begins  to 
thicken  add  y2  pint  of  cream  well  beaten. 

— Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  of  flour,  y>  cup  of  sugar,  y> 
cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  \y2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder.  Sauce. — One-half  cup  of  con- 
fectioner's sugar  mixed  with  butter  size  of  an  egg;  beat  the 
yolk  of  1  egg  into  this  and  ^4  cup  of  boiling  water.  Beat  all 
well  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Just  before  serving  beat  up  the 
white  of  an  egg  and  fold  in.         — Mrs.  W m.  G.  Van  Deusen. 


53 


Kitchen  Mystery. — One  cup  of  Minute  sago,  2  cups  of  dark 
brown  sugar,  3  cups  of  boiling  water.  Soak  the  sago  in  cold 
water  to  cover  1  hour,  then  add  boiling  water  and  dark  brown 
sugar.  Boil  20  minutes  or  until  clear.  Serve  with  heavy 
cream.  — Mrs.  McBride. 

Rice  Pudding. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  1  quart  of  milk, 
y2  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Bake  slowly  2  or  3 
hours.  — Mrs.  Foland. 

John's  Delight. — Two  cups  of  chopped  bread,  a  scant  Y2 
cup  of  molasses,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  stoned  raisins,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk  in  which  Y  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved;  Y± 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  little  salt. 
Boil  2  hours  in  a  closely-covered  mould.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce  or  whipped  cream.  — E.  M. 

Apple  Whip. — Put  the  unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs  into  a 
bowl  and  beat  just  enough  to  foam  lightly;  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  granulated  sugar  and  beat  a  minute.  Peel,  core  and 
grate  2  tart  apples  and  beat  in  as  fast  as  grated.  Beat  until 
the  mixture  has  become  very  stiff.  Add  a  drop  or  two  of 
vanilla  and  heap  upon  the  pudding  and  chill  thoroughly  before 
serving.  — E.  M. 

Rebecca  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  scalded  milk,  *4  CUP  of 
cornstarch,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  J/%  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
34  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  2  squares 
of  unsweetened  chocolate.  Mix  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt 
together  and  dilute  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  add  to  scalded  milk, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens  and  cook  15  minutes  ;  add 
vanilla  and  whites  of  eggs.  Mould,  chill  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  Macoy. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  stale  cake  crumbs,  4 
cups  of  scalded  milk,  2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  cup  of 
sugar,  2  eggs,  Y\  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Soak  cake  in  milk  30  minutes ;  melt  chocolate ;  add  half  of 
sugar  and  enough  milk  taken  from  the  cake  to  make  of  the 
consistency  to  pour.  Add  to  the  mixture  the  eggs  slightly 
beaten.  Turn  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  ; 
serve  with  hard  sauce,  sweetened  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

—Nellie  R.  Bentley. 

Delicate  Pudding. — One  cup  of  water,  1  cup  of  fruit  juice, 
1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  Y$  teaspoonful  of  salt,  3  eggs 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Boil  water  and  fruit  juice ;  wet  cornstarch 
with  a  little  Avater.  stir  into  boiling  fruit  and  cook  10  minutes  ; 
add  salt  and  sugar.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  foamy  and  stir 
into  starch.  Turn  at  once  into  a  mould  and  serve  with  a  boiled 
custard  made  from  yolks  of  eggs.  — Mrs.  S.  B.  Rigby. 


54 


Marshmellow  Pudding. — Beat  whites  of  3  eggs  with  %  cup 
of  granulated  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth ;  then  add  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  gelatine  previously  soaked  in  warm  water;  flavor 
with  orange  and  pour  immediately  into  individual  moulds ;  set 
on  ice  to  cool.  Beat  3  yolks  into  a  scant  pint  of  milk  to  which 
has  been  added  about  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Set  on  stove 
and  boil  until  thick,  flavor  with  rose.  Pour  custard  into  a  dish 
and  put  marshmellows  on  top.  — Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Peach  Puff. — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y  cup  of  sugar, 
cup  of  milk,  1  scant  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Pour  over  sliced  or  halved  peaches  in  pudding  dish 
and  bake  slowly.  Serve  hot,  enough  for  four  or  five  persons. 
Sauce. — Boil  together  1  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water, 
y-2.  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  5  whole  cloves.  Boil  until  like 
syrup.  — Mrs.  Walter  McDougall. 

Indian  Pudding. — Cream  together  y2  cup  of  sugar,  butter 
size  of  an  egg;  add  2  eggs,  beaten,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup 
of  cold  water,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal,  y*.  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  y>.  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1  quart  of  boiling  water 
added  last.  Bake  2  hours,  stirring  from  time  to  time.  Serve 
with  cream  or  hard  sauce.  — Meta  E.  Bentley. 

Maple  Bavarian  Cream. — Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  very 
light;  then  add  slowly  while  beating  constantly  1  cup  of  thick 
hot  maple  syrup ;  turn  mixture  into  double  boiler,  stir  and 
cook  until  thick  enough  to  coat  the  blade  of  a  silver  knife. 
Have  %  box  of  gelatine  softened  in  cold  water ;  dissolve  it 
over  boiling  water  and  add  to  custard.  When  thoroughly  dis- 
solved turn  into  mould,  set  over  ice  and  stir  occasionally  until 
it  begins  to  congeal;  then  fold  in  lightly  the  beaten  yolks  of 
4  eggs.    Serve  with  plain  cream.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup 
of  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  currants,  baking 
powder  and  flour  to  make  rather  stiff  batter.  Steam  3  hours 
and  serve  with  hard  sauce.  — E.  B.  C. 

Cup  Pudding. — One  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt  and  thin  out  with  milk  like  cake  batter. 
Butter  baking  cups,  put  1  tablespoon  of  preserves  in  and  fill 
up  with  batter.  Steam  y2  hour  and  serve  with  any  sauce 
desired.  — Mrs.  Horn. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. — One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  lard  the  size  of 
an  egg.  Use  enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  add  1  quart 
of  berries  and  steam  2  hours. 

Cherry  or  Fruit  Pudding. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour, 
3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  little  salt,  milk  enough 


55 


to  make  it  a  little  stiffer  than  for  griddle  cakes.  1  pint  or  more 
of  fruit  and  steam  \x/2  hours.  — D.  H. 

Baked  Fruit  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
cup  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins, 
6  sour  apples,  chopped,  salt.  Bake  \y2  hours  in  moderate  oven 
and  serve  hot  with  boiled  sauce.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Prune  Pudding. — Thirty  large  prunes  cooked  until  soft 
with  1  cup  of  sugar;  when  cold  remove  pits  and  chop  prunes, 
add  the  whites  of  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  bake  20  minutes. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  use  yolks  of  eggs  for  a  soft 
custard.  — Mrs.  William  Sch.ell. 

Norwegian  Prune  Pudding. — One-half  pound  of  large 
prunes,  2  cups  of  cold  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  piece  of  stick 
cinnamon,  one  and  one-third  cups  of  boiling  water,  one-third 
cup  of  Duryea's  cornstarch.  Soak  prunes  in  the  cold  water 
for  1  hour,  and  put  on  to  boil  until  soft  in  same  water.  Re- 
move pits  from  prunes,  return  to  juice  and  add  sugar,  cinanmon 
and  boiling  water  with  cornstarch.  Cook  10  minutes,  then  add 
juice  of  1  small  lemon  and  1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts ;  place  in 
individual  or  one  large  mould  and  allow  to  set.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  A.  F.  Brand. 

Whipped  Prune  Pudding. — One  pound  of  prunes,  pitted 
and  chopped  fine,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  and  1  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  added  gradually,  beating  all  the  time.  Mix 
in  the  chopped  prunes  thoroughly  and  bake  20  minutes.  Serve 
cold  with  whipped  vanilla  flavored.  — K.  C.  H. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Three  heaping  teaspoons  of  tapioca, 
soaked  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Beat  2  eggs,  1  cup 
of  sugar  and  add  to  tapioca  with  1  pint  of  milk,  J/2  nutmeg,  1 
tablespoon  butter  and  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven.  — K.  C.  H. 

Marlborough  Fluff. — One  cup  of  peach  pulp,  canned  or 
fresh,  mixed  with  2  egg  yolks  beaten  very  light  with  ]/2  cup 
of  sugar  and  6  stale  macaroons  crushed  very  fine.  Beat  all 
very  light,  then  add  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
y2  cup  of  milk.  Set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes  or  until  the  custard  is  firm ; 
then  chill  on  ice  and  serve  plain  or  with  cream. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup 
of  chopped  suet,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  currants,  flour 
enough  to  make  rather  a  stiff  batter,  about  3  cups,  1  teaspoon 
of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  1  egg.  Steam 
3  hours  and  serve  with  boiled  sauce  and  hard  sauce. 

—Mrs.  Shelton. 


56 


Small  Plum  Pudding. — Three  ounces  of  stale  bread  crumbs 
grated  fine  and  soaked  in  y2  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Mix  with  6 
ounces  of  suet  minced  very  fine,  1  ounce  of  dry  bread  crumbs, 
10  ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  little  salt, 
3  eggs,  leaving  out  1  white.  Boil  pudding  2  hours  and  serve 
with  very  sweet  sauce.  — Mrs.  A.  M.  Howe. 

Farina  Jelly. — One  level  dessert  spoon  of  gelatine,  1  cup 
of  milk,  %  CUP  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  of 
whipped  cream,  2  level  dessert  spoons  of  farina,  vanilla.  Soak 
the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water,  and  add  milk  and  sugar;  when 
hot  add  farina  mixed  with  a  little  milk;  cook  10  minutes  and 
add  gelatine ;  when  partially  cool  add  flavoring  and  fold  in  the 
whipped  cream.   Pour  into  moulds.  — Mrs.  M.  S.  Myer. 

Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  with  Strawberries. — Prepare 
berries  as  for  ordinary  serving.  Warm  biscuit  in  oven  before 
using.  Cut  or  crush  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit  to  form 
basket.  Fill  the  cavity  with  berries  and  serve  with  cream  or 
milk.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Peaches,  blackberries,  raspberries, 
blueberries,  pineapples,  bananas  and  other  fruit,  fresh  or  pre- 
served, can  be  served  with  shredded  wheat  biscuit  in  t*he 
same  way. 

Chocolate  Cream  Pudding. — Two  ounces  of  chocolate,  1 
pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Put  choco- 
late in  double  boiler,  and  when  melted  add  hot  milk  and  sugar, 
stirring  until  all  are  blended.  Add  the  cornstarch  which  has 
been  wet  in  cold  milk  and  cook  until  thick.  Then  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  vanilla ;  pour  into  serving  dish, 
use  beaten  whites  and  powdered  sugar  for  meringue,  and  set 
in  oven  until  a  light  brown.  — Mrs.  Knight. 

Banana  Float. — One  pint  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2  eggs,  2 
bananas.  Beat  the  egg  yolks,  milk,  sugar,  cornstarch  together 
and  place  in  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  near  boil- 
ing. Add  vanilla  and  let  cool.  Cut  bananas  in  slices,  pour 
over  custard  and  beat  the  egg  whites  very  stiff ;  add  a  little 
sugar  and  place  over  custard  like  snow  balls. 

— Mrs.  Knight. 

Bread  Pudding. — Butter  mold,  decorate  sides  and  bottom 
with  raisins  or  candied  cherries.  Fill  mold  two-thirds  full  with 
stale  bread  crumbs.  Beat  1  egg,  add  1  round  tablespoon  sugar 
and  y2  cup  milk.  Pour  over  bread ;  let  stand  5  minutes.  Put 
mold  in  pan  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in  quick  oven  about  20 
minutes. 


57 


58 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Sauce  for  Cherry  Pudding. — One  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  1 
tablespoonfu!  of  butter,  1  small  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  or 
flour.  Mix  well,  place  on  stove  and  stir  in  boiling  water  until 
thick  as  cream. 

Hard  Sauce. — Rub  to  a  cream  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
T/2  cup  of  butter;  flavor  with  a  tablespoonful  of  wine.  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar  and  y2  cup  of  butter,  rub  to  a  cream,  soften  a 
little  with  sweet  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Cream  Sauce  for  Cottage  Pudding. — Two-third  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  nutmeg, 
pour  on  boiling  water  and  stir  until  thick. 

Sauce  for  Suet  Pudding. — One  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
wet  in  cold  water,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  1 
pint  of  boiling  water.   Have  all  ready  and  pour  in  water. 

Strawberry  Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter.  1 
cup  of  strawberries,  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Beat  sugar  and 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  white  of  an  egg  and  strawberries 
thoroughly  mashed.    Excellent  for  baked  puddings. 

Orange  Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  pint  of  water,  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  large  orange.  Boil  5  minutes,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter. 

Lemon  Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  juice  and  rind  of 
1  lemon,  beat  all  together.  Just  before  serving  add  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  set  on  stove,  and  when  at  boiling  point  serve. 
Never  boil  sauce  after  adding  lemon,  as  it  makes  it  bitter. 

French  Sauce. — Cream  y2  pound  of  butter,  stir  in  y2  pound 
of  sugar,  then  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  gill  of  milk.  Put  on  the  fire  and 
stir  until  it  simmers.    Flavor  with  nutmeg. 


59 


60 


PIES. 

What  moistens  the  lip  and  what  brightens  the  eye, 
What  calls  back  the  past  like  the  rich  pumpkin  pie? 

— Whittier. 

Best  Pie  Crust. — For  1  crust  use  4  large  tablespoons  of 
flour,  4  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  2  tablespoons  of  cold 
water,  pinch  of  salt.    Stir  in  bowl  with  spoon. 

— Mrs.  A.  W.  Warner. 

Apple  Pie. — Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  1  cup  of  lard 
chopped  into  flour  and  very  cold  water  enough  to  make  stiff 
paste,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Put  on  ice  for  several  hours,  roll  out 
and  spread  with  tiny  pieces  of  butter  and  roll  again.  This 
quantity  will  make  2  pies;  14  nice  greening  apples,  \y2  cups 
sugar,  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and  little  water,  if  apples 
are  dry.    Bake  in  quick  oven  ]/2  hour.  — Miss  Slatcher. 

Orange  Pie. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  1  scant 
cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  flour,  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  white  of 
one,  1  pint  of  cold  milk,  little  salt  and  small  piece  of  butter. 
Bake  with  one  crust,  then  frost  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  powdered  sugar.    Brown  in  oven. 

—Mrs.  L.  W.  Renfrew. 

Lemon  Pie. — Make  a  rich  crust  of  1  cup  of  flour  and  one- 
third  cup  of  shortening,  lard  and  butter  mixed,  little  salt. 
Roll  and  cover  bottom  of  pie  dish  and  bake  quickly.  Make 
filling  of  3  lemons,  juice  of  3  and  grated  rind  of  one,  3  eggs,  2 
cups  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water,  \y>  tablespoons  Duryea's 
cornstarch.  Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  fill  crust  and 
cover  with  meringue  made  of  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
powdered  sugar.  Set  in  hot  oven  and  allow  to  brown.  This 
makes  two  pies.  — Delia  Haran. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 
\y2  cups  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  4  tablespoons  flour, 
yolks  of  4  eggs  ;  stir  all  together  and  pour  1  pint  boiling  water 
over  the  mixture ;  when  cool,  add  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  like  custard  pie.  —Mrs.  E.  B.  Courter. 

Lemon  Sponge  Pie.— One  cup  of  sugar  and  Ya  cup  of 
butter  creamed ;  then  add  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
a  pinch  of  salt,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2  well  beaten 
egg  yolks,  \y2  cups  milk.  At  the  last  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  bake  with  one  crust  only. 

— Mrs.    L.   W.  Renfrew. 

Cream  Pie.— Three  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  iy2  cups  flour, 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  two 
layers. 


61 


Filling. — Two  eggs,  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  flour,  salt; 
beat  together  and  stir  into  1  pint  of  boiling  milk.  When  cool 
spread  over  layers. 

Sour  Cream  Pie. — One  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  finely  chopped  raisins,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  1  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  Adnegar.  Beat  all 
together  well  and  bake  under  crust.  When  done,  cover  with 
meringue  of  beaten  whites  and  powdered  sugar  and  all  to 
brown  quickly.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Blackberry  Cream  Pie. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  1  cup  of  blackberries,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  a 
little  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and  bake  with  one  crust 
with  meringue  on  top.  — Mrs.  Fiero. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie. — One  cup  of  cranberries,  y2  cup  of 
seeded  raisins  (chopped  together),  1  cup  of  sugar,  ^4  CUP  of 
boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  little  salt.    Bake  with 

2  crusts.  — Mrs.  William  Schell. 

Chocolate  Pie. — One  cup  of  milk,  Y\  cup  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons of  grated  chocolate,  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Heat  chocolate 
and  milk  together,  add  sugar  and  eggs  well  beaten,  flavor  with 
vanilla.    Bake  with  under  crust  and  cover  with  meringue. 

— Mrs.  George  Conover. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  boiling 
water,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  eggs. 
Mix  flour  with  sugar,  butter,  yolks  of  eggs  and  water;  cook 
until  it  thickens.  Pour  mixture  into  baked  crust  and  cover 
with  meringue  made  of  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff 
and  1  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar.    Brown  slightly. 

— Mrs.  C.  S.  Warner. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Wash  the  stalks  and  cut  into  inch  strips 
without  peeling,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  10 
minutes,  drain  and  dredge  with  flour  lightly;  allow  1  heaping 
cup  of  sugar  for  a  10-inch  plate,  dot  with  'pieces  of  butter ; 
bake  between  two  crusts  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  the  first  10 
minutes  and  then  slower  until  done,  about  30  minutes  in  all. 

— -Mrs.  Washburn. 

Squash  Pie. — One  medium-sized  squash  cooked  and  put 
through  sieve  to  remove  lumps,  1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  y2  nutmeg  (grated)  y2  tea- 
spoon of  ginger,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  a  little  salt.  If  too 
thick,  add  more  milk.  — Mrs.  Van  Deusen. 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Pie. — Three  cups  of  cooked  squash  or 
pumpkin,  5  eggs,  3  cups  (small),  of  granulated  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons of  Duryea's  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  pinch 
of  nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste,  \l/2  quarts  of  milk.  Mix  eggs  and 
all  seasoning  with  squash  before  adding  milk  and  cornstarch. 


62 


Have  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  slow  oven  until  centre  will 
not  stick  to  silver  knife,  about  1  hour. 

—Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Peach  Kucken. — Cover  a  pan,  sides  and  hollow  with  pie 
crust.  Wipe  the  down  from  the  peaches,  but  do  not  pare 
them ;  cut  in  halves,  removing  the  stones  and  lay  them  on  the 
crust  skin  side  down;  fill  the  cavities  with  granulated  sugar. 
Cover  this  with  1  cup  of  English  walnut  meats.  Take  \y2 
cups  of  soft  bread  crumbs  and  mix  with  \y2  cups  of  brown 
sugar  and  spread  over  the  nuts,  putting  small  pieces  of  but- 
ter on  top.    Bake  until  peaches  are  soft.     — Mrs.  C.  R.  Page. 

Mince  Pie. — One  cup  of  chopped  meat,  V/2  cups  of  raisins, 
V/2  cups  currants,  \y2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  3  cups  of  chopped  apples,  1  cup  of  meat  liquor, 
2  teaspoons  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  J/>  teaspoon  of 
powdered  cloves,  1  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice,  1  cup  of 
boiled  cider  or  sweet  pickle  juice.  Mix  in  the  order  given 
and  cook  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until  the  apples  are  done. 
Make  good  rich  crust  and  bake  with  two  crusts.     — Hatfield. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — One  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  V/2  cups  of 
sugar,  \y2  cups  of  molasses,  2  cups  of  water,  y2  cup  of  vine- 
gar, 8  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  cup  but- 
ter a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.    Makes  four  pies.      — Hatfield. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — Three  eggs,  \y2  cups  of  shredded  cocoa- 
nut  (soaked  in  1  pint  of  milk),  1  cup  of  sugar,  small  piece  of 
butter;  bake  with  one  crust.  — Hatfield. 


63 


64 


FROZEN  DESSERTS. 
"  The  Smile  of  the  Hostess  is  the  Cream  of  the  Feast." 

Ice  Cream. — One  quart  milk,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon of  flour,  3  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler;  when  cold, 
add  y2  pint  of  cream  whipped  and  vanilla.  Freeze. 

— Mrs.  W.  Courter. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. — One  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  of  milk,  2 
eggs>  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  1  small  vanilla  bean  or 
two  tablespoons  of  vanilla  extract.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar 
until  very  light,  add  to  milk  and  put  on  stove,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  you  can  feel  it  getting  heavy;  remove  from  fire 
and  when  cold,  add  cream  and  flavoring  and  freeze.  A  good 
foundation  for  all  creams.  — Miss  H.  Cain. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream. — One  pint  whipped  cream,  y2  pint  of 
milk,  juice  of  one  quart  of  crushed  fruit.  Chill  cream,  milk, 
sugar  and  vanilla  thoroughly  in  freezer,  then  add  fruit  and 
freeze.  — Mrs.  G.  G.  Andrews. 

Peach  Mousse. — One  pint  cream,  1  cup  of  canned  peaches 
(drained),  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  enough  powdered  sugar  to 
stiffen.  Beat  cream  stiff,  add  crushed  fruit,  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours.    This  serves  six  persons. 

—Mrs.  Norton. 

Coffee  "Whip. — Soften  1  large  teaspoon  of  gelatine  in  cold 
water  to  cover,  and  dissolve  in  a  cup  of  strong  coffee ;  add  ^4 
cup  of  sugar.  When  cold,  stir  in  1  pint  of  cream  whipped 
very  stiff  and  dry,  few  drops  vanilla,  and  y2  pound  of  maca- 
roons.   Turn  into  mold  and  pack  in  ice  for  4  hours. 

m  —Mrs.  J.  Hartfield. 

Biscuit  Tortoni. — One  pint  of  cream  whipped,  4  eggs 
beaten  separately,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  added  to  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  10  cents'  worth  of  stale  macaroons  crushed. 
Mix  all  together  and  pack  in  ice  for  5  or  6  hours. 

— Mrs.  G.  G.  Andrews. 

Bisque  Tortoni. — Three-quarters  cup  of  water,  ^4  cup  of 
sugar,  let  stand  on  stove  until  it  threads.  Beat  3  eggs  until 
very  light  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture  until  cold;  then  add 
1  pint  of  whipped  cream,  2  teaspoons  of  vanilla.  Take  12 
macaroons  and  brown  in  oven;  roll  fine  and  sprinkle  top  and 
bottom  of  mold.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  freeze  3  or  4  hours. 

—Mrs.  Hartfield. 

Charlotte  Russe. — One-half  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff. 
Soak  1  small  teaspoon  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  then 
dissolve  it  with  y2  cup  of  hot  milk.    To  this  add  1  heaping 


tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar,  and  ^2  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
and  strain  into  it  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  very  stiff. 
When  it  thickens,  not  too  thick,  add  it  to  the  whipped  cream 
and  pour  into  a  dish  lined  with  sponge  cake.  Can  be  chilled 
in  ice,  if  desired.  — Mrs.  Walter  McDougalh 

Milk  Sherbet. — Mix  juice  of  4  lemons  with  1  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  add  to  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine,  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  cold  water.  When  ready  to  freeze,  add 
1  quart  of  milk.  — K.  C.  H. 

Peach  Sherbet. — Two  cups  of  water,  1  cup  of  fruit  juice, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  y2  lemon.  When  peach  marmalade  is 
used,  add  sugar  to  taste.  Place  in  mold  and  pack  in  ice  for 
several  hours.    This  serves  4  persons.  — Mrs.  Norton. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. — One  pint  each  of  water,  sugar  and 
pineapple  chopped,  and  juice  of  y2  lemon.  Boil  sugar  and 
water  for  25  minutes,  then  pour  over  pineapple  and  lemon 
juice  and  cool.    Pack  in  4  parts  ice  and  1  part  salt. 

—Mrs.  Norton. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — Four  large  juicy  lemons,  1  quart  of  milk, 
134  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  milk  and  sugar  to  boil,  chip  rind 
from  three  of  the  lemons,  add  to  syrup,  boil  five  minutes  and 
stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  juice  of  lemons  and 
strain  through  a  cloth.  Freeze  and  before  taking  out  beat  in 
the  white  of  an  egg  that  has  been  beaten  very  stiff.  Serve 
in  sherbet  cups  with  a  sprig  of  fresh  mint.      — Miss  H.  Cain. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream. — One  cup  of  strong  coffee,  1  large  cup 
of  sugar  boiled  together  until  it  is  a  syrup.  While  hot  add 
a  cup  of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten.  Return  to 
fire  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  taking  great  care  that 
it  does  not  curdle.    Add  1  pint  of  cream  and  freeze. 

—Hatfield. 

Cafe  Mousse. — One  cup  strong  coffee,  y  CUP  sugar.  Let 
these  come  to  a  boil.  Stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg,  cool,  stir- 
ring occasionally.  Whip  one  pint  cream  and  mix  slowly. 
Pack  and  let  freeze  5  or  6  hours.  — Miss  Mulford. 

Maple  Mousse. — One  pint  cream,  one  cup  maple  syrup, 
four  eggs.  Beat  all  separately.  Put  syrup  into  cream  and 
beat,  add  yolks  well  beaten,  then  whites  beaten  dry.  Beat 
again  thoroughly  and  freeze  with  one  stirring  about  4  hours. 

— Miss  Mulford. 

Strawberry  Mousse. — One  box  strawberries,  y2  pint  thick 
cream,  \y2  cups  sugar.  Whip  cream.  Add  sugar  and  ber- 
ries, pour  into  mold  and  pack  in  freezer.    Let  stand  4  hours. 

—Miss  Mulford. 

Mock  Maple  Parfait. — Stir  together  one  cup  Karo  syrup 
and  one  quart  rich  cream.    Whip  until  stiff  and  place  in 


66 


mold,  being  careful  that  no  salt  water  can  get  into  mold. 
Bury  for  three  hours  in  fine  ice  and  salt.  Serve  in  tall  glasses 
or  in  whole  mold. 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. — One-half  cup  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  y2  cup  of  milk,  2  squares  of  Baker's 
chocolate.  Boil  milk,  water  and  sugar  until  sugar  is  melted  ; 
then  add  melted  chocolate.  Boil  until  thick.  Use  double 
boiler.  —Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Maple  Nut  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. — Take  1  cup  of  maple 
syrup  and  1  cup  of  chopped  English  walnut  meat.  Mix  well 
and  pour  over  vanilla  ice  cream  when  serving. 


67 


68 


PICKLES,  PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

"  Turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts,  I  find, 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind." 

Pears. — Pare  the  fruit  and  cut  in  halves.  Throw  into  cold 
water,  or  they  will  be  discolored.    Allow  1  pound  of  sugar  for 

0  of  fruit,  and  1  quart  of  water  for  3  pounds  of  sugar.  When 
the  syrup  is  boiling,  take  the  pears  from  the  water,  and  drop 
into  syrup.  Cook  until  they  can  be  pierced  easily  with  a 
silver  fork.  Fill  the  jars  with  fruit  and  syrup.  Or  allow  y 
cup  of  sugar  to  a  can  of  fruit  and  cook  15  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Shelton. 

Peaches. — Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Fill  a 
wire  basket  with  peaches  and  plunge  into  the  boiling  water. 
In  2  minutes  take  them  out,  and  the  skins  will  come  off  easily. 
Drop  the  fruit  into  cold  water  to  keep  the  color.  Allow  1 
pound  of  sugar  to  3  pounds  of  fruit,  1  pint  of  water  for  3 
pounds  of  sugar.  When  the  syrup  is  boiling  hot,  drop  the 
fruit  into  it.  Put  but  a  few  in  at  a  time,  as  they  cook  very 
quickly.  Take  them  from  the  syrup  with  a  silver  fork,  fill  the 
jar  with  fruit  and  syrup;  or  allow  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar 
to  one  can  of  fruit  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.     — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Plums. — Allow  Yi  a  pound  of  sugar  for  1  pound  of  plums, 
and  ^2  a  pint  of  water  for  3  pounds  of  sugar.  When  the  syrup 
is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  fruit  and  cook  three  minutes.  Fill 
the  jar  with  fruit  and  syrup;  or  allow        cups  of  sugar  to 

1  can  of  fruit  and  cook  10  minutes.  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Strawberries. — To  each  pound  of  berries  allow  y2  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Put  the  berries  in  a  kettle,  add  a  very  little  water. 
Stir  them  to  prevent  scorching.  Cook  15  minutes;  then  add 
the  sugar  and  let  them  boil  hard  1  minute.  Put  them  in  heated 
jars.  More  or  less  sugar  may  be  used,  as  one  prefers.  If 
the  berries  are  cooked  in  glass  jars,  add  1  cup  of  sugar;  screw 
the  lids  on  tight  without  rubbers,  place  in  cold  water  to  nearly 
cover  the  fruit,  boil  15  minutes,  take  out  and  have  ready  a  tea 
kettle  of  boiling  water;  remove  the  lids,  or  if  preferred,  fill 
the  can  with  a  boiling  syrup,  made  of  sugar  and  water ;  screw 
the  lids  on  tight  immediately.  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Pineapple. — Pare  the  fruit  and  be  sure  to  take  out  all  the 
eyes  and  discolored  parts.  Cut  in  slices,  and  cut  the  slices  up 
like  dice,  taking  out  the  core.  WTeigh  the  fruit,  put  in  a  pan 
with  half  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  fruit.  Let  it  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  put  it  over  the  fire  and  let  it 
boil  rapidly  for  a  minute  only,  as  cooking  discolors  it.  Put 


69 


in  heated  jars.  Or  use  nearly  1  cup  of  sugar  to  a  can  of  fruit 
and  cook  15  minutes.  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Cherries. — Allow  one-third  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound 
of  cherries.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  kettle  with  ^  a  pint  of  water 
to  3  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved.  When  boiling, 
add  the  cherries  and  cook  3  minutes,  and  then  put  in  jars ; 
or  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar  to  1  can  of  cherries. 

—Mrs.  Shelton. 

Tomatoes. — One  dessert  spoon  of  salt  to  1  quart  can  of 
tomatoes.  Cut  large  tomatoes  in  halves ;  do  not  cut  small  one  ; 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  fruit  so  the  skin  will  come  off 
easily;  pare,  add  salt  and  cook  steady  T/2  an  hour.  Put  the 
cans  in  a  dry,  dark  place.  — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Quinces. — Pare  and  quarter  the  fruit,  take  out  all  the  cores 
and  the  hard  part  around  them.  Boil  the  fruit  in  clear  water 
until  tender ;  then  spread  on  towels  to  dry.  Allow  ^2  a  pound 
of  sugar  for  1  pound  of  fruit,  and  1  pint  of  water  for  3  pounds 
of  sugar.  When  the  syrup  is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  fruit 
and  let  it  cook  very  slowly,  as  the  longer  it  cooks  the  brighter 
red  color  it  will  be,  but  do  not  let  it  cook  to  pieces.  Put 
fruit  in  a  jar  and  strain  the  syrup  over  it.         — Mrs.  Shelton. 

Sweet  Pickle  Watermelon  Rind. — Cut  melon  rind  in  slices 

3  inches  long,  removing  green  and  red.  Put  in  kettle,  cover, 
with  water  and  boil  until  tender  and  clear.  Strain  off  water. 
To  each  quart  of  vinegar  dissolve  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Add  to  the  rind  and  let  boil.  Then  put  over 
the  fire,  add  stick  cinnamon,  whole  mace  and  whole  cloves. 
Tie  spices  in  a  bag  and  remove  from  the  vinegar  before  melon 
goes  in,  as  it  discolors  it.  Let  melon  and  spiced  vinegar  boil 
until  the  latter  is  like  syrup.    Put  away  in  airtight  crocks. 

—Mrs.  K.  C.  Hartfield. 

Pickled  Peaches. — Seven  pounds  peaches,  3  pounds  of 
sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  ounce  each  ground  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  mace  tied  in  bags.  When  vinegar,  spices  and  sugar  are 
boiling,  put  in  some  peaches  and  boil  till  tender  ;  remove  to 
stone  jar  and  put  in  more  until  all  are  done.  Lay  spice  bags 
on  top  and  pour  syrup  over.  Ready  to  use  in  a  few  days. 
After  a  week  or  so  remove  bags.  — Mrs.  W.  McDougall. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. — One  gallon  green  tomatoes,  1 
quart  of  onions,  chopped  fine.  Salt  and  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  drain  and  squeeze,  add  4  green  peppers  chopped 

4  teaspoons  mustard  seed,  4  teaspoons  celery  seed,  4  teaspoons 
pepper,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  2  teaspoons  allspice,  2  cups  sugar, 
3  pints  of  vinegar.    Boil  y2  an  hour  or  more.    Put  in  jars. 

—Mrs.  W.  McDougall. 


I 

I 


70 


Green  Tomato  Pickles. — Slice  1  peck  green  tomatoes,  add 
1  cup  of  salt,  let  stand  over  night;  drain  well,  add  1  gallon 
of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  ground  allspice,  1  tablespoon  ground 
cinnamon.  1  teaspoon  cloves,  %  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  4 
cups  sugar,  1  cup  grated  horseradish.    Simmer  for  about'  a 

— Mrs.  Courter. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. — Seven  pounds  sliced  tomatoes,  3 
pounds  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar,  1  ounce  cinnamon,  1  ounce 
cloves.   Scald  and  seal.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Indian  Relish. — One  quart  fine  cabbage,  2  quarts  fine  toma- 
toes, 6  large  green  peppers,  no  seeds,  3  large  white  onions. 
Chop  very  fine,  sprinkle  with  2  heaping  tablespoons  salt,  let 
stand  over  night  and  drain.  Take  3  pints  of  vinegar,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  extract  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2 
tablespoons  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  celery  seed ;  tied  in 
a  cloth.  Boil  slowly  25  minutes,  when  cold  pour  over  vege- 
tables and  put  in  glass  jars,  add  cold  vinegar  if  needed. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Pour  boiling  water  over  cucumbers 
and  let  stand  over  night.  To  1  gallon  vinegar  add  1  cup 
salt,  1  tablespoon  pulverized  alum,  sugar  to  taste.  Mix  spices 
also  to  taste,  little  white  mustard  seed;  heat  vinegar,  sugar, 
salt,  alum.  Pour  over  pickles.  Wipe  cucumbers  off  before 
putting  into  jars  or  pouring  vinegar  over  them. 

—Mrs.  S.  B.  Rigby. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Soak  100  small  cucumbers  in  salt  and 
Avater  over  night,  drain  and  scald  very  slightly  in  2  quarts  of 
vinegar,  2  cups  sugar,  1  ounce  mixed  spices.  Put  only  enough 
cucumbers  in  at  one  time  to  cover  pan,  then  pack  tightly  in 
glass  jars  and  cover  with  hot  vinegar.  — Mrs.  Gould. 

Pickled  Onions. — Use  small  white  onions,  pour  boiling 
water  on  them  to  remove  skins.  Cover  with  strong  brine. 
Let  stand  24  hours,  replace  old  brine  with  new,  let  stand  for 
24  hours,  and  repeat  with  fresh  brine  the  third  morning.  On 
fourth  morning  put  onions  in  clear  water  and  heat  to  scalding 
point.  (A  pint  of  milk  added  will  help  whiten  the  onions.) 
Drain  well,  put  in  jar  and  cover  with  boiling  white  vinegar. 
Add  slice  red  pepper  or  a  few  small  dry  peppers. 

— Mrs.  Courter. 

Corn  Pickle. — Ten  cups  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  10  cups 
of  chopped  cabbage,  6  large  red  peppers,  y2  gallon  of  vinegar, 
3  cups  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  Y\  pound  of  ground 
mustard;  mix  together  and  pour  on  vegetables,  let  stand  on 
back  of  stove  and  cook  slowly  until  corn  is  tender,  seal  in 
glass  jars.  — Mrs.  William  SchelK 


71 


Mustard  Pickles — Two  quarts  of  cucumbers,  2  large  green 
peppers,  2  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  2  large  cauliflowers,  a 
few  lima  beans.  Chop  vegetables  rather  coarse  and  cook  in 
a  weak  brine.  One  gallon  of  vinegar,  1  large  cup  of  flour, 
1  ounce  of  mustard,  \y>  pounds  of  sugar,  l/2  ounce  of  tumeric. 
Stir  the  paste  until  it  boils  and  pour  over  vegetables. 

—Mrs.  S.  B.  Rigby. 
Chow  Chow. — One  quart  of  large  cucumbers  cut  in  chunks, 
1  quart  of  small  onions,  1  quart  of  green  tomatoes,  cut  in 
quarters,  1  quart  of  small  cucumbers,  1  head  of  cauliflower. 
Put  in  salt  and  water  over  night,  then  scald  in  the  same  water 
till  tender.  Paste. — Two  quarts  of  vinegar,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
J/2  pound  of  mustard,  £4  cup  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
tumeric  powder.  Boil  and  stir  constantly  until  thick,  then 
pour  over  pickles,  put  in  jars  and  seal.  — Mrs.  Gould. 

Mustard  Chow  Chow. — Two  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  2 
quarts  of  white  onions,  8  red  peppers,  2  small  heads  of  cabbage, 
10  cucumbers.  Chop  all  and  add  2  cups  of  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Drain  in  morning.  Dressing. — One  gallon  of 
vinegar,  y^  pound  of  mustard,  T/2  ounce  of  tumeric  powder, 
y2  ounce  of  celery  seed,  1  cup  of  flour,  2  cups  of  sugar.  Cook 
dressing  6  minutes,  put  over  pickle  and  let  boil  up  once 
thoroughly.  After  taking  from  stove  add  2  bunches  of 
chopped  celery.  — Mrs.  E.  W .  DuBois. 

Chow  Chow. — Three  heads  of  cabbage,  y2  peck  of  green 
tomatoes,  12  red  peppers,  1  quart  of  red  onions.  Chop  fine, 
mix  well,  adding  1  pint  of  salt,  let  drain  over  night  in  jelly 
bag.  In  morning  put  in  stone  crock  and  pour  over  it,  while 
vinegar  is  hot,  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  in  which  a  bag  of  ground 
spices  and  1  cup  of  sugar  has  been  boiled.         — Mrs.  Courter. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. — Take  large  green,  sweet  peppers, 
cut  off  top  for  lid,  clean  out  all  seeds  and  pulp,  lay  in  a  bowl 
and  cover  with  strong  salt  water  for  24  hours.  Drain  dry. 
Chop  cabbage,  onions,  celery  and  green  tomatoes  in  equal 
quantities,  add  nasturtium  seed,  mustard  seed,  celery  seed, 
pepper  corns  and  allspice.  Fill  peppers,  sew  on  tops  and  put 
in  crock,  covering  with  good  cider  vinegar,  scalding  hot;  add 
strip  of  horseradish  to  prevent  moulding.        — Easthampton. 

Pepper  Pot. — Chop  6  red  cabbages,  10  green  peppers  very 
fine.  Put  in  crock,  layer  of  cabbage,  over  which  sprinkle  a 
little  salt,  green  peppers,  horseradish  and  yellow  mustard  seed 
until  your  crock  is  full.  Then  pour  over  little  vinegar,  to 
every  quart  of  which  has  been  dissolved  3  ounces  of  sugar. 
Tie  up  air  tight.  — Mrs.  K.  C.  Hartfield. 

Pears  Preserved  with  Lemon. — Three-quarter  pounds  of 
sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit.    Almost  cover  fruit  with  water,  let 


72 


simmer  in  syrup;  when  nearly  done  add  lemon  to  taste,  cut 
in  slices.  — Mrs.  George  Conover. 

Orange  Marmalade. — One  orange,  1  grape  fruit,  1  lemon. 
Put  through  grinder ;  measure  and  add  3  times  the  amount  of 
water.  Put  away.  Second  day  boil  10  minutes.  Put  away 
again  and  the  third  day  measure  and  add  equal  amount  of 
sugar.    Boil  until  it  jellies.  —Mrs.  L.  W.  Renfrew. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Three  oranges,  sliced  very  thin, 
weigh  them.  To  1  pound  of  fruit  add  3  pints  of  cold  water, 
and  let  stand  24  hours,  then  cook  about  10  minutes  until 
tender.  Weigh.  To  1  pound  of  the  above  add  1%  pounds 
of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  jellies,  about  an  hour;  add  juice  of 
3  lemons  and  boil  a  few  minutes  until  it  jellies.  Put  in  glasses 
and  when  thoroughly  cold  cover  with  parafine. 

—Mrs.  William  Schell. 

Currant  Conserve. — Three  pints  of  currant  juice,  (as  for 
jelly)  3  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  chopped 
coarsely.  Cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken  (15  or  20  minutes). 
Then  add  2  oranges  and  cook  10  minutes.  Chop  pulp  of 
both  and  the  rind  of  one  fine,  before  adding.  Four  quarts  of 
currants  on  stems  makes  about  10  glasses. 

—Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Cherry  Conserve. — Three  pints  of  cherries  stoned,  1  cup 
of  cold  water,  1  pound  of  figs  ground,  ^  cup  of  walnut  meats 
ground,  8  cups  of  sugar.  Cook  like  jam  about  half  an  hour. 
Seal  in  jelly  glasses.  — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Grape  Conserve. — Five  pounds  of  Concord  grapes,  3 
pounds  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  1  pound  chopped 
English  walnuts.  Rind  of  1  orange  and  pulp  of  2.  Pulp 
grapes  and  boil  to  remove  seeds.  Strain.  Add  juice  to  skins, 
and  boil  together  until  thick,  about  20  minutes.  When  done 
add  walnut  meats  and  can.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Spiced  Grapes. — Pulp  4  quarts  of  grapes  and  put  on  in 
preserving  kettle,  boiling  until  seeds  fall  out.  Add  skins  to 
this  juice,  after  straining,  and  put  into  it  3j4  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  ground  allspice, 
1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  1  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves.    Cook  all  together  until  it  thickens. 

—Mrs.  T.  C.  Hartfield. 

Ginger  Pear. — Cut  hard  pears  in  thin  slices  after  peeling 
and  coring.  To  8  pounds  of  fruit  add  8  pounds  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  4  lemons,  1  pint  of  water  and  %  pound  of  ginger 
root  sliced  thin.  Cut  lemon  rinds  into  long,  thin  strips.  Boil 
all  together  slowly  about  an  hour.  — Mrs.  Walter  McDougall. 

Chili  Sauce. — Thirty  large  ripe  tomatoes,  6  green  peppers, 
8  cups  of  vinegar,  8  onions,  5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  table- 


73 


spoonfuls  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  1  tablespoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper.  Boil 
4  hours,  bottle  when  cold.  — Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Catsup. — One  gallon  tomato  pulp,  strained,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  salt,  1  tablespoonful  black  pepper,  y2  tablespoonful  red 
pepper,  1  tablespoonful  mustard,  2>y2  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
Put  in  bag  1  teaspoonful  whole  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  allspice, 
y2  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon,  1  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil 
slowly  for  two  hours,  let  stand  over  night,  then  boil  again 
until  quite  thick.    Bottle  when  cold.  — Mrs.  Courter. 

Grape  Catsup. — Five  pounds  of  grapes,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful. 
of  cloves,  1  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  y2  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
V2  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Boil  grapes  in  water  enough  to 
prevent  burning,  strain  through  colander;  add  above  in- 
gredients and  boil  till  thick.    Bottle  and  seal. 

— Mrs.  Gould. 

Grape  Juice. — Heat  white  grapes  over  slow  fire  until  juice 
flows  readily.  Crush,  squeeze  and  strain.  To  each  quart  of 
juice  add  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then 
take  from  fire,  bottle  and  seal.  Keep  cool ;  will  keep  for 
years.  — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Cranberry  Jelly. — One  quart  of  cranberries,  1  cup  of  water, 

2  cups  of  sugar.    Cook  altogether  and  strain  if  desired. 

— Mrs.  Renfrew. 

Yellow  Tomato  Preserves. — One  gallon  of  tomatoes,  do 
not  peel,  but  put  over  Avhole  in  1  pint  of  water,  4  pounds  of 
sugar,  1  lemon,  sliced  and  seeded.  Cook  to  a  jelly  and  add 
V2  cup  of  Canton  preserved  ginger,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Can 
be  put  in  jars  or  crock.  — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Piccalilli. — One-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped ; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night,  drain  and  add  1 
large  cabbage,  4  onions,  6  green  peppers,  2  red  sweet  peppers,( 
all  chopped  fine ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  alspice,  mustard  seed  and  sugar.  Put  in  jar  and 
cover  with  1  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  boiling  hot. 

Crabapple  Jelly.— Wash  fruit  clean,  put  in  kettle  and  cover 
with  water,  boil  until  very  soft.  Strain  through  cloth,  but 
do  not  press  it.  Allow  1  pound  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice. 
Boil  from  20  to  30  minutes.  — Shelton. 

Quince  Jelly. — Prepared  the  same  as  crabapple. 

Currant  Jelly— Wash  currants,  put  in  kettle,  mash,  and 
boil  until  thoroughly  cooked,  about  20  minutes.  Strain.  Put 
juice  over  stove  again,  let  boil  five  minutes,  then  add  1  pound 
•of  sugar  for  every  pint  of  juice.    Let  boil  rapidly  one  minute. 


74 


Skim  and  put  in  jelly  tumblers.  Add  red  raspberries,  if  de- 
sired. — Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Strawberry  Jam. — Wash  fruit,  put  in  preserving  kettle 
and  boil  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring  frequently  and  removing 
skim.  Add  1  coffee  cup  sugar  to  1  pint  mashed  fruit ;  boil  30 
minutes  longer,  stirring  constantly.    Put  in  glasses  or  jars. 

Quince  Honey. — Grind  12  large  quinces  and  cook  with  5 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  water  until  thick  and  like  jam. 

— Mrs.  E.  W.  DuBois. 

Currant  Conserve. — Three  pints  of  currant  juice,  3  pounds 
of  sug_ar,  1  pound  seeded  chopped  raisins.  Cook  until  it 
thickens.  Then  add  2  oranges  and  cook  10  minutes.  Chop 
oranges  fine.  — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

Wild  Cherry  Cordial. — Dissolve  one  package  of  Wild 
Cherry  Tryphosa  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Serve  with 
crushed  ice.    Delicious.  — Mrs.  C.  B.  Valentine. 


75 


76 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  SANDWICHES. 
"  Variety  is  the  spice  of  life  which  gives  ail  its  flavor." 

Remove  seeds  and  chop  pepper  fine,  simmer  for  10  min- 
utes in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  salt  and  cool. 

Chopped  dates  seasoned  with  lemon  peel  and  clove  or  cin- 
namon. 

Corned  beef  cut  thin  and  spread  with  mustard. 

Tongue  cut  in  slices  and  spread  with  mustard. 

Grated  horseradish  spread  on  buttered  bread. 

Cream  cheese  made  into  a  paste  with  cream. 

Cream  cheese,  cream  and  chopped  nuts. 

Prunes  chopped  with  half  the  quantity  of  English  wal- 
nuts; season  with  lemon  juice  and  powdered  sugar. 

Minced  tongue,  hard-boiled  egg  and  mustard. 

Sardines  made  into  paste  with  lemon  juice. 

Shrimps,  picked  fine,  seasoned  with  lemon  juice. 

Minced  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  sardine  to  every  three,  sea- 
soned with  lemon. 

Watercress  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper. 

Minced  hard-boiled  eggs  mixed  with  grated  cheese,  sea- 
soned with  mustard. 

Finely  cut  celery  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

Cream  cheese  mixed  with  chopped  olives. 

Equal  parts  minced  ham  and  celery  mixed  with  mayon- 
naise. 

Ham,  mixed  with  chopped  pickles  and  celery. 
Equal  parts  of  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  chopped  English 
walnuts,  with  mayonnaise. 

Olives  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

Peanuts  mashed  to  a  paste  with  mayonnaise. 

Lobster  meat  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

Canned  salmon  mixed  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 

Figs  and  nuts  chopped  fine. 

Cold  chicken  and  cold  cooked  oysters  chopped  fine. 

Cold  chicken  and  one-fourth  the  quantity  of  blanched 
almonds  chopped  fine,  and  mixed  to  a  paste  with  cream. 

Cream  cheese,  lettuce  leaves  and  French  dressing. 

Hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  and  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  chopped  parsley. 

Cold  roast  chicken  and  finely-cut  celery  mixed  with 
mayonnaise. 

"Cream  cheese,  mixed  with  mayonnaise,  seasoned  with 
fnustard  and  chopped  olives. 

Raisins  and  candied  lemon  peel  chopped  and  made  into  a 
paste  with  lemon  juice. 


77 


Pickled  lamb's  tongue,  chopped  very  fine  with  capers. 

Sour  apples  and  celery  minced  very  fine  and  mixed  with 
mayonnaise. 

Peanuts  and  figs  chopped  with  lemon  juice. 

Chopped  English  walnuts  mixed  with  quince  jelly  and 
cream  cheese. 

Cold  chicken  and  mushrooms,  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

Spanish  Sandwich. — Spread  buttered  slices  of  graham 
bread  with  mustard,  then  with  layers  of  grated  cheese  and 
chopped  olives  mixed  with  salad  dressing. 

Brown  bread  with  cream  cheese  and  chopped  olives. 

Educator  crackers  filled  with  layer  of  cream  cheese,  and 
thin  layer  jelly,  quince  preferred. 

White  bread  with  mixed  pickles  chopped  fine. 

—Miss  Mulford. 


78 


79 


CANDIES. 
"  Sweets  to  the  sweet." 

Molasses  Taffy. — Two  cups  molasses,  1  tablespoon  vine- 
gar, 1  tablespoon  butter,  1  level  teaspoon  soda.  Boil  20  min- 
utes, stirring  all  the  time.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Walnut  Pinouchie. — Five  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  2>y2 
cups  of  milk,  part  Van  Camp's  evaporated  milk  improves  it; 
3  tablespoons  of  butter.  Boil  from  20  to  30  minutes  until  it 
spins  a  thread.  Take  from  fire  and  beat  until  nearly  ready  to 
pour  into  buttered  pan.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  Mapleine,  3  cups 
of  chopped  nuts,  and  finish  beating. 

—Mrs.  L.  W.  Renfrew, 

Salted  Almonds. — Shell  1  pound  nuts,  pour  on  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  until  red  skins  will  slip  off  easily.  Put 
nuts  in  shallow  pan  in  hot  oven,  with  1  teaspoon  of  butter 
and  1  teaspoon  of  olive  oil.  Allow  to  brown  and  dredge  with 
salt.  —Hatfield. 

Fudge. — Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  squares  chocolate, 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  all  together  until  it  hairs  from 
the  spoon.  Remove  from  stove  and  beat  until  it  grains. 
Pour  in  buttered  tins. 

Walnut  Cream.- — Two  cups  coffee,  A  sugar,  1  cup  cream,  1 
quart  hickory  nuts  or  1  pound  of  English  walnuts.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  cream  until  it  becomes  brittle  when  put  in  cold 
water.  Put  in  the  meats,  stirring  well,  and  set  away  on  but- 
tered pan  to  harden. 

Salted  Peanuts. — Buy  raw  peanuts  and  shell  and  skin. 
Melt  a  little  butter  in  pan,  put  in  peanuts  and  place  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  as  brown  as  desired.  — Hatfield. 

Glace  Nuts. — Two  cups  sugar,  just  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve the  sugar.  Boil  to  the  "  crackle  "  and  drop  in  English 
walnut  meat,  Brazil  nuts,  bits  of  orange  or  any  nuts  and 
fruit  you  wish.  Remove  at  once,  and  place  on  buttered  plates 
to  cool. 

Karo  Cream  Drops. — To  1  quart  Karo  Syrup  which  has 
been  boiled  for  30  minutes,  add  J/2  teaspoon  bicarbonate  soda 
which  has  been  rubbed  absolutely  smooth.  Allow  to  boil, 
stirring  constantly  or  it  may  burn,  until  brittle  when  tested  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  1  tablespoon  lemon 
juice.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  until  a  light,  bright 
yellow ;  roll  out  into  two  half-inch  sheets.  Lay  these  together 
with  a  layer  of  Karo  fondant  between.  Cut  into  squares  or 
other  shapes. 


80 


Walnut  Caramels. — Turn  into  a  saucepan  2  pounds  brown 
sugar,  1  cup  Karo  Syrup,  1  cup  milk,  4  level  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 6  squares  unsweetened  chocolate.  Bring  to  a  boil  slowly 
and  continue  to  increase  the  heat  until  240  degrees  F.  have 
been  reached  on  sugar  thermometer.  At  this  point  stir  in  ]/2 
pound  walnut  meats  and  turn  out  into  buttered  tins.  When 
cool,  mark  in  squares. 

Karo  Kokoanut  Kandy. — Shave  a  half  cocoanut  fine  and 
spread  on  tin  dishes  in  a  warm  place  to  make  soft  and  pliable. 
Then  make  a  syrup  as  follows :  Boil  together  but  do  not 
stir,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  Karo  Syrup,  1  teaspoon  vine- 
gar, tablespoon  butter.  When  this  is  sufficiently  cooked  to 
become  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  stir  lightly  into  it 
the  warm  cocoanut.  Pour  the  whole  upon  buttered  tins,  and 
when  almost  cold  mark  into  bars. 

French  Fondant. — Use  equal  quantities  of  unbeaten  egg 
whites  and  cold  water,  add  confectioner's  sugar  enough  to 
mold  into  shapes.    Add  flavoring. 

Maple  Fudge. — One  pound  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream 
or  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  English  walnut.  Put  sugar 
and  cream  in  the  pan,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  boil 
until  a  soft  ball  can  be  made  of  a  little  that  has  been  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Extinguish  flame,  add  butter  and  vanilla 
and  beat  vigorously  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  candy 
cracks  as  you  beat  it.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  or  tin  and 
cut  into  squares  as  soon  as  possible.  — Mrs.  E.  Norton. 

Candied  Orange  Peel. — Dip  oranges  in  hot  water,  wipe  in 
soft  cloth,  then  rub  with  lump  sugar  to  extract  oil.  Roll 
sugar  fine  and  set  aside,  peel  oranges,  throw  skins  into  boiling- 
water,  and  cook  until  tender,  changing  water  twice;  drain 
well;  cut  into  strips  and  weigh,  allowing  1  pound  sugar  and 
y2  cup  of  water  to  every  pound  of  peel.  Boil  sugar  and  water 
together  a  minute ;  add  peel ;  simmer  until  transparent ;  drain 
and  roll  each  piece  in  the  sugar.    Put  in  warm  oven  to  dry. 

— Mrs.  Washburn- 

Caramels. — One  large  cup  of  molasses,  1  tea  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  milk,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  %  pound  un- 
sweetened chocolate,  cut  or  scraped  fine,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil 
all  together  about  30  minutes  or  until  it  hardens  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Pour  on  buttered  pans;  when  cool  cut  into 
squares.  —Mrs.  T.  C.  Macoy. 

Turkish  Delight. — One-half  pound  of  French  gelatine  (or 
half  a  box  of  ordinary  gelatine),  2  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  pint 
of  boiling  water  on  stove  with  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  put  in  gelatine  and  sugar,  boil  five  minutes- 
hard;  fill  4  soup  plates  with  cold  water  until  ready;  turn  out 


81 


and  fill  with  the  mixture,  color  and  flavor  each  separately. 
Let  stand  24  hours,  cut  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Use  Bur- 
nett's color  paste  for  coloring.  — Miss  H.  Cain. 

Pinouchie. — Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1 
cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  lump  butter.  Boil  sugar  and 
milk,  add  butter  until  will  form  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water. 
Take  off  stove  and  beat  until  quite  thick  and  lighter  in  color, 
stir  in  nuts  and  pour  into  buttered  pans.  — E.  M. 

Divinity  Fudge. — One  pound  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  water. 
Boil  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  worked  in  cold  water.  Have 
white  of  1  egg  stiffly  beaten,  and  beat  the  mixture  into  it 
slowly.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Fudge. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  cocoa,  1  cup  milk,  1  lump  butter.  Cook  stirring 
as  little  as  possible  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  on  cold  water ; 
take  from  fire  and  add  y2  tablespoon  vanilla.  Beat  until 
thick  and  creamy,  pour  into  buttered  pans.     — Mrs.  Quimby. 


82 


S3 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Balm  for  Chapped  Hands. — One  ounce  of  quince  seed  put 
in  a  cup  of  warm  water;  let  it  stand  until  the  jelly  is  all  out 
of  the  seed,  then  strain  and  add  2  ounces  of  glycerine,  4 
ounces  of  alcohol,  6  ounces  of  witch  hazel.  Use  more  quince 
seed  if  you  wish  it  thicker.  — Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 

To  set  the  Color  in  Cotton  Goods  Before  Washing.— Wet 
in  cold  water,  then  dip  in  cold  water  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar 
of  lead  in  it,  and  dry. 

To  Remove  Paint  or  Grease  Spots. — Take  4  tablespoons  of 
alcohol  and  1  of  salt.  Shake  well  together  and  apply  with  a 
sponge  or  brush. 

To  Remove  Mildew. — Dip  the  mildewed  portion  in  butter- 
milk and  lay  the  article  in  the  sun. 

Hot  Alum  Water  is  the  best  insect  destroyer  known. 

Beef  Tea. — One  and  one-half  pounds  of  round  steak  cut 
up  in  very  small  pieces,  put  in  a  glass  jar  and  set  in  cold 
water;  let  it  gradually  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  three  hours. 
Dilute  with  a  scant  j£  cup  of  water,  and  add  a  small  pinch  of 
salt. 

Barley  Water. — Wash  1  tablespoon  of  pearl  barley  in 
cold  water,  pour  off  the  water,  add  2  or  3  lumps  of  sugar,  the 
rind  of  1  lemon  and  the  juke  of  y2  a  lemon.  Pour  on  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  2  or  3 
hours.    Strain  the  mixture  and  let  cool. 

Rice  Water. — Wash  an  ounce  of  rice  in  cold  water,  then 
steam  for  3  hours  in  a  quart  of  water  kept  simmering,  and 
slowly  raise  to  boiling  point.  Strain  and  cool  the  liquid 
before  using. 

Milk  Gruel. — One  pint  of  scalded  milk.  Take  2  even 
tablespoons  of  flour,  and  stir  with  a  little  milk  until  entirely 
free  from  lumps,  salt,  stir  into  the  scalding  milk,  and  cook 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  1  hour;  do  not  burn. 

Rice  Gruel. — Wash  1  level  tablespoon  rice  in  cold  water 
and  let  stand  2  hours;  drain,  add  1  cup  of  milk;  cook  \l/2 
hours  in  double  boiler.  Strain  twice  through  fine  strainer. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel. — Mix  1  level  tablespoon  Indian  meal, 
Yz  level  tablespoon  flour,  *4  teaspoon  salt,  add  gradually  3 
tablespoons  cold  water,  then  stir  gradually  into  2  cups  boiling 
water ;  boil  1  hour  over  hot  water ;  add  milk  or  cream  as 
needed. 


84 


Cracker  Gruel. — Pour  y2  cup  boiling  water  on  2  round 
tablespoons  cracker  crumbs ;  add  y2  cup  of  milk  and  ^  tea- 
:  spoon  salt.    Stir  until  the  mixture  boils. 

Flaxseed  Tea.— Put  2  tablespoons  whole  flaxseed  and  1 
pint  of  cold  water  over  the  fire;  cook  slowly  y2  hour,  add 
juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  round  teaspoon  sugar.  Strain  through 
fine  strainer. 

Albumen  Water. — Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  slightly  and  add 
equal  quantity  of  ice  water.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth, 
add  juice  of  lemon  and  sugar  or  saccharine. 

Health  Gems  (For  Constipation). — One  quart  unsifted 
wheat  bran,  1  pint  entire  wheat  flour,  1  pint  milk,  6  table- 
spoons molasses,  2  teaspoons  soda,  salt.  Makes  two  dozen 
gems.  —Mrs.  E.  H.  Little. 

Soap  Bark  Mixture  for  Cleaning  Clothing. — One  ounce 
soap  bark  boiled  and  strained.  When  cold,  add  two  ounces 
alcohol,  and  water  to  make  a  pint  in  all.  Will  keep  for  years 
in  bottle,  and  after  sponging  cloth,  will  not  leave  a  stain. 

—Mrs.  H.  L.  Little. 
-  Cough  Mixture.— Two  drams  muriate  of  ammonia,  1  dram 
fluid  extract  cubebs,  16  drams  Brown's  Mixture,  13  drams 
syrup  of  wild  cherrv.    Teaspoonful  every  3  hours. 

—Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Rheumatic  "Lotion  for  External  Use  Only.  One-half 
ounce  organum, -y2  ounce  spike,  y2  ounce  hemlock,  y2  ounce 
amber,  y2  ounce  castile  soap,  y2  ounce  Venice  turpentine,  y2 
ounce  gum  camphor,  y2  pint  alcohol.  Shake  thoroughly  be- 
fore using.  —Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Cold  in  Head. — Ten  grains  menthol,  10  grains  eucalytol, 
20  drops  oil  of  cubebs,  4  ounces  bensoinol.  Use  with  nasal 
atomizer  every  1  or  2  hours.  — Mrs.  H.  H.  Gould. 

Bay  Rum. — One  ounce  Parke,  Davis  &  Co.'s  Extract  Bay 
Laurel  Concentrated,  1.  quart  alcohol,  1  quart  water.  Put 
the  extract  in.  one-half  the  alcohol.  Put  the  other  half  of  the 
alcohol  in  the  water,  then  add  all  together. 

Heliotrope  Powder. — One-half  pound  powdered  orris  root, 
}4 /pound  ground  rose  leaves,  %  pound  tonquin  bean 
powdered,  one-sixteenth  pound  vanilla  beans,  2  drops  attar 
of  almonds. 

.  To  Remove  Yellow  from  Piano.  Keys. — One  ounce  nitric, 
acid;  10  ounces  soft  water.  Apply  with  brush  and  wash  off 
with-  flannel  cloth.    ".     .  ' 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Woolen. — One  .  quart  .  boiling 
water,  1  ounce  pulverized  borax,  y2  ounce  gum  camphor. 
Shake  well  and  bottle. 


85 


* 

85 


87 


CONTENTS. 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures   3 

Bread — Muffins — Rolls    5 

Eggs    11 

Soups    15 

Fish — Oysters — Clams    19 

Meats  and  Game   23 

Vegetables    28 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Sauces   33 

Salads  and  Dressings   36 

Cakes    39 

Cake  Fillings    49 

Puddings    52 

Pudding  Sauces   58 

Pies    60 

Frozen  Desserts    64 

Pickles,  Preserves  and  Jellies   68 

Suggestions  for  Sandwiches   76 

Candies    79 

Miscellaneous    83 


88 

j 


89 

WHEN  THE  RECIPE 
CALLS    FOR  SALT 

WORCESTER  SALT 

Is  indicated.  Its  purity,  strength 
and  flavor  give  just  the  exact 
degree    of    seasoning  required. 


For  BEST  RESULTS  always  use 

WORCESTER  SALT 

Because 

It  Takes  the )  DFCT 
To  Make  the  f  OJCiC3 1 


Your  grocer  will  give  you 
WORCESTER  if  you  ask  for  it. 


WORCESTER  SALT  COMPANY 

168  DUANE  STREET  -  NEW  YORK 


BRANCH   OFFICES  IN 

BOSTON,  PHILADELPHIA,  CHICAGO,  COLUMBUS,  SAN  FRANCISCO 


90 


SHREDDED   WHEAT  DISHES 

A  dainty,  wholesome,  appetizing  meal  can  be  prepared  -with  Shredded  Wheat  Bis- 
cuit "in  a  jiffy."  It  is  ready-cooked  and  ready-to-serve.  You  can  do  things  with  it 
that  are  not  possible  with  any  other  "breakfast  food."  It  is  the  only  cereal  food 
made  in  Biscuit  form.  Combined  with  fresh  or  preserved  fruit,  or  with  creamed 
meats  or  creamed  vegetables,  or  simply  eaten  as  a  breakfast  food  with  milk  or  cream, 
it  is  delicious,  nourishing  and  satisfying. 

Made  by  THE  SHREDDED  WHEAT  COMPANY,  Niagara  Falls,  N.  Y. 


HALF-A-CENTURY 

BROWNE'S  BROOKLYN  BUSINESS  COLLEGE 

DAY  AND   NIGHT  SESSIONS 

A  Twentieth  Century,  reputable  and  up-to-date  school  for  training 
young  men  and  women  in  the  shortest  possible  time  for  well-paying 
business  positions. 

36   FLATBUSH    AVENUE   at   FULTON  STREET 

Graduates  Placed  in  Permanent  Positions  "Write,  Telephone  or  Call 

INDIVIDUAL  INSTRUCTION  BEGIN  ANY  TIME 


QUIMBY'S  FLATBUSH  EXPRESS 

117  JOHN  STREET,  NEW  YORK. 

Telephone,  844  JOHN.  Residence  Telephone,  1868  FLATBUSH 


SPECIAL  ATTENTION  PAID  TO  BAGGAGE 


Goods  Shipped  to  All  Points  by  Freight  or  Express 


91 


Hot  Griddle  Cakes  with  Karo 

— Try  it  for  breakfast 
—the  most  delicious 
syrup  you  ever  tasted 

is  fine  on  hot  biscuit. 

The  children  like  plain  bread 
and  Karo  better  than  a  richer 
dessert — and  Karo  is  nourish- 
ing and  digestible — a  real  food. 
Use  it  in  cooking.  Make  Karo 
Candies. 

Karo  Cook  Book— fifty  pages,  including  thirty  perfect  recipes  for 
home  candy  making— free.    Send  your  name  on  a  post  card,  today. 

Corn  Products  Refining  Company  new  york 


P.  O.  Box  161 


Those  dainty  "old  home"  cus- 
tards and  puddings  are  so 
good  when  you  make  them  with 

Duryeas'  Corn  Starch 


you  risk  failure  with  ordinary  corn 
starches?    The  cook  who  knows 
uses  Duryeas' — that's  the  reason  she 
gets  results  that  so  many  cooks  miss. 
Insist  on   getting  Duryeas' — 
your  grocer  has  it. 

Send  a  post  card  today  for  Duryeas'  COOK 
BOOK— recipes  for  168  of  the  best  dishes  you 
ever  ate. 

GLEN  COVE  MFG.  CO. 
Oswego,  N.  Y. 

National  Starch  Co.,  Successors 


92 


Telephone,  6239  FLATBUSH 

JAMES  J.  LUPTON 

PLUMBING  AND  HEATING 

1418  NOSTRAND  AVE.,  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

BRANCH  :  301    EAST  35™  STREET 


Contracts  taken  for  Steam  Heating,  Hot  Water  Heating,  Plumbing 
and  Gas  Fitting*    General  Contracting 


BAKERIES 

206   DEKALB   AVENUE  821    FLATBUSH  AVENUE 

Telephone,  2654  Prospect  Telephone,  6290  Flatbush 

DELICATESSEN,  278  ADELPHI  STREET 

(QUALITY   NOT  QUANTITY) 


93 

F.  C.  SAUTE  R 

FIFTH    AVENUE,  CORNER  NINTH  STREET 

BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

REAL  ESTATE 

IN    ALL.    ITS  BRANCHES 


Telephone,   357  SOUTH 


PIERCE  BROTHERS 

HARDWARE  AND  HOUSE  FURNISHINGS 

523  ROGERS  AVENUE,  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Cor.  RUTLAND  ROAD  TELEPHONE,  2421-J  FLATBUSH 


Romafin  Cooking  Utensils,  Fruit  Jars  and  Rings,  Glass  Mantles,  Globes  and 
Burners,  Paints,  Oils  and  Varnishes,  Curtain  Poles  and  Fixtures,  Sash  Rods, 
Locks  and  Keys,  Garden  Tools  and  Window  Screens. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF  A  FRIEND 


94 

Established  1883  Telephone,  3880  FLATBUSH 

ST  EM  MANN  &  LUDEMANN 

Groceries,   Cigars,   Fruits,  Vegetables 

453  ROGERS  AVENUE,  Cor.  LINCOLN  ROAD 

BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

TELEPHONE  •)  j-  FLATBUSH 

ZEE.  IE±J. 

SELECT  SEA  FOOD  MARKET 

Blue  Point  Oysters  and  Little  Neck  Clams  on  Half  Shell  a  Specialty 

1006  FLATBUSH  ATENUE,  BROOKLYN.  N.  Y. 

ORDERS  CALLED  FOR  AND  DELIVERED 
Telephone,  118  FLATBUSH 

HENRY  STRUHS 

Stapleand  Fancy  Groceries 

TEAS,  COFFEES,  SUGARS,  SPICES,  Etc. 

Cor.  Nostrand  Avenue  and  Fenimore  St.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

Telephone,  FLATBUSH  4445 

"FENIMORE" 

FRANK  MULDOWNEY 

Ice  Cream  and  Confectionery 

545  ROGERS  AVENUE,  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Churches,  Weddings  and  Parties  Supplied 
Telephone  429  FLATBUSH 

J.  HENRY  WOLTMANN 

FINE  GROCERIES 

995-997  FLATBUSH  AVENUE,  near  TILDEN  AVENUE 


95 

Fine  Assortment  of 

Bon  Boris,  Chocolates 

GONZALEZ 

Ice  Cream  and  Fruit  Ices 
756-58  Flatbush  Ave.  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Near  Woodruff  Ave.  Tel.  161  J  Flatlush 

Ice  Cream  delivered  to  residences  at  short  notice 

Telephone  378  South 

J.  DOYLE 

PLUMBING,    ROOFING  AND  HEATING 

RANGES    AND    HEATERS  JOBBING    A  SPECIALTY 

317   Eleventh  Street 

NEAR  FIFTH  AVENUE 

W.  H.  CURTIS  &  CO. 

FANCY  GROCERIES 

FRUITS   AND  VEGETABLES 

659    FLATBUSH    AVE.  1747    FLATBUSH  AVE. 

Telephone  605  Flatbush  Telephone  1429-J  Flatbubh 

BROOKLYN,  NEW  YORK 
ESTABLISHED  1891 

L.  C.  RANDALL 

752  FLATBUSH  AVE.,  Near  Woodruff  Ave. 

Dry  Goods,  Notions  and  Furnishings — Onyx  Hosiery  for  Men,  Women  and 
Children — Also  Ladies'  All-Silk  Hose  at  50c,  75c,  $1,00  and  1.50 — 
Flatbush  Agency  for  Butterick  Patterns 
Telephone,  2342  W  Flatbush 

GEORGE  E.  KERN 

LINDEN  MARKET 

CHOICE   MEATS,    POULTRY  AND  PROVISIONS 

735   ROGERS  AVENUE 
Telephone  3728  Flatbush  Near  Lenox  Road 

BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


96 


Tel.  161-W  Flatbush 

I.  C.  DEELWATER 

Delicatessen  &  Groceries 

760  FLATBUSH  AVENUE 

Near  Woodruff  Ave.  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Phone  39  Flatbush  '_  Phone  729  Flatbush 

RESD  &  SNYDER 

Modern  Druggists 

Flatbush  &  Woodruff  Aves. 
BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


Joseph  H.  Esquirol 


Adrian  M.  Williamson 


J.  H.  Esquirol  Co. 

REAL  ESTATE 

831    Flatbush  Avenue 

Cor.  Linden  Avenue 
Phone,  Flatbush'5834       BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Telephone  512  Flatbush 

GEO.  BEYER'S 

Meat  and  Poultry  Market 

Beef,   Mutton,    Pork,  Lamb    and  Veal 

Philadelphia  Poultry  A  Specialty 

769    Flatbush  Avenue 

Bet.  Lenox  Road  and  Clarkson  Street 


J.  MOLINARO 

THE 

Model  Shoe  Shop 

Fine  Repairing 
798  Flatbush  Ave  ,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Telephone  1464  Flatbush 

A.  Horowitz 

Ladies'  &  Gentlemen's  Tailor 
Suits  Made  to  Order 
748  FLATBUSH  AVENUE 

Near  Woodruff  Ave.  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Cleaning,  Dyeing,  Pressing  and  Repairing 

Fredrick  Luppens 

REAL  ESTATE 
INSURANCE  AND  LOANS 
1368  Flatbush  Avenue 

Cor.  East  26th  Street,  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Telephone  418  Flatbush 

Compliments 
of 

The  Iceman 

Telephone  3914  Flatbush 

FRANK  J.  CDRRAN 

SEA  FOOD 

755   FLATBUSH  AVENUE 

Near  Lenox  Road 

LADIES 

You  will  find  500  elegant  trimmed 
hats  to  select  from  at 

NEWMAN'S 

880  Flatbush  Avenue 

Near  Church  Ave. 


97 

Telephone,  3776  Flatbush 

THEO.  HAASE 

Fine  Bakery 
467  ROGERS  AVENUE 

Bet.  Lincoln  Road 

and  Maple  St.         BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Orders  Promptly  Attended  To. 
Telephone,  3360-W  Flatbush 

E.  GOLDBERG 

MERCHANT  TAILOR 

521  Rogers  Ave.  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Near  Rutland  Road 

Suits  made  to  order  at  reasonable  prices . 
Special  attention  given  to  cleaning  and 
repairing  ladies'  and  gents'  garments. 

The  Flatbush  Ice  and  Coal  Supply 

JAMES  LAING 
Best  Quality  Coal  and  Wood 

Coal  Delivered  at  Residences  by  the  Ton  or  Cwt. 
FAMILY  ICE  TRADE  A  SPECIALTY 

430-432  Fenimore  Street 

Near  New  York  Avenue 
Phone  654-L  Flatbush,  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Store  closes  at  7  p.  m.  Evenings,  including 
Saturday  Evening 

AMPHION  HAND 
LAUNDRY 

117  RutledgeSt.,       Brooklyn,  N-.  Y. 
Goods  Called  for  and  Delivered.  Terms  CO  D. 
Lace  Curtains  acd  Family  Work  a  Specialty 
TELEPHONE,  90  WILLIAMSBURG 


The  Housekeeper's  Luxury 

A  little  implement  that  takes  right  hold 
of  the  Mop,  and  wrings  it  out  good  and 
DRY  without  wetting  or  soiling  the  hands. 

WRITE  FOR  BOOKLET 

WHITE  MOP  WRINGER  CO. 

Fnltonville,  N.  Y. 


People's  Market 

FIRST  CLASS 
MEATS    AND  PROVISIONS 
Orders  Called  for  and  Delivered 

J282  NOSTRAND  AVE. 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y.  Phone  1783-L  Flatbush 

JOS.  FAVALORO 

Fancy  Fruits,  Vegetables 
and  Groceries 

Importer  of 
Italian   Macaroni   and    Olive  Oil 

-  Distributor  of  the 
Famous  Flag  lirand  Canned  Goods 

786a  Flatbush  Ave. 

Phone  5344  Flatbush 

Eugene  Walter 

PRIME  MEATS 

POULTRY  AND  GAME  IN  SEASON 
54 1  Rogers  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Bet.  Rutland  Rd.  and  Fenimore  St, 

When  you  want  good  meat  we  always 
have  it. 

STAHL  BROS, 

High  Grade 

Meat  Market 
Poultry  and  Sea  Food 
II 69  Nostrand  Ave* 

Near  Fenimore  St. 

Telephone  2316  Flatbush. 

Robert  J.MacGormack 

CARPENTER  AND  BUILDER 
AND  GENERAL  CONTRACTOR 

1514  FLATBUSH  AVE.    -  BROOKLYN 
Remodelling  and  Jobbing  a  Specialty 


LOOK  WHO'S  HERE ! 

MRS.  II.  II.  GOULD 

AGENT  FOR  THE 

Exclusive  Dress  Fabrics 

OF 

Buckley  Brothers  Co. 


Compliments  of 


A  FRIEND 


99 


O'COIVlVOXi'S 

Star  Cigar  and  Stationery  Store 

Newspapers  Delivered 

539  Rogers  Avenue 

Between  Paitland  Road  and  Fenimore  St. 

Brooklyn,  IV.  Y. 

Telephone  234  J  Flat  bush 

WgKkSb  carriages 

H§fFNw  "AMIES 

hJgFi^  WAGONS 
ifihS-R£MSON^i- 

A,  TKl€AMO 

223  Macon  St.,  near  Rogers  Avenue 
BROOKLYN 

SHOE  REPAIRING 

Shoes  finished  by  machinery  and  sewed 
by  hand.    Shoes  made  like  new.  Boot 
Black  Parlor. 

Telephone,  3816  FLATBUSH 

The  LINCOLN  MARKET 

FRED.  H.  TIETJEN,  Manager 

Prime  Meats,  Sea  Food, 
Poultry  and  Game 

455  ROGERS  AYE.,  near  LINCOLN  ROAD 
BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

100 


Jflattmsif)  Crust  Company 

MAIN  OFFICE,  FLATBUSH  AND  LINDEN  AVENUES. 
New  Utrecht  Office,  New  Utrecht  Ave.  and  54th  St. 

25oatts  of  2Director^ 


George  M.  Boardman,  Paterson,  Boardman  &  Co. 
F.  A.  M.  Bnrrell 

Vice-Pres.  Charles  A.  Schieren  Company. 
Isaac  E.  Chapman 

Vice-Pres.  Merritt  &  Chapman  Wrecking  Co. 
James  Cochran  Lalance  &  Grosjean  Mfg.  Co. 

Harrison  S.  Collmrn  Vice-President 
Warren'  Crnikshank,  Pres.  Cruikshank  Company 
Henry  B.  Davenport  -  Attorney 
John  H.  Ditmas  Retired 
Walter  M.  Gladding 

Vice-Pres.  Borden  Cond.  Milk  Co. 
William  Halls,  Jr. 

former  "Vice-President  Hanover  National  Bank 
George  M.  Henderson  Real  Estate 


National  Park  Bank 
President 


William  O.  Jones 

Assist.  Cash. 

John  Z.  Lott 
Edwin  P.  Maynard 

Comptroller  Brooklyn  Savings  Bank 
G.  W.  Maynard,  Treas.  Home  Title  Insurance  Co. 
George  A.  IVeedham. 

Vice-Pres.  Remington  &  Sherman  Co. 
Frank  W.  Nix  Treas.  John  Nix  &  Co. 

Lewis  E.  Pierson 

Pres.  Irving  National  Exchange  Bank 
A.  W.  Schmidt 

Treas.  Germania  Real  Estate  Improvement  Co. 
Alexander  C.  Snyder  Ross  &  Snyder,  Lumber 
Frederick  Van  Wyck  Attorney 


.   y  NEW  UTRECHT  OFFICE 

Hon.  Chas.  E.  Teale  Public  Administrator 

Thomas  E.  Clark  .  . 

Pres.  .Brooklyn  City  Safe  Deposit  Co. 
Andrew  F.  Van  Than,  Jr.  Attorney 


Harrison  S.  Colbnrn 
William  G.  Morrisey 
Alexander  C.  Snyder 


;    .0  Vice-President 
•  '  ■  '    •    Real  Estate 
Chairman,  Ross  &  Snyder 


TOTAL  ASSETS    .    .    . ,  $5,000,000.00 

'PHONE  5292  FLATBUSH 

DREW  ELECTRIC  COMPANY 

ELECTRICAL 

Engineers  andContractors 


Finished  House  Work  a  Specialty 

DEALERS  IN 

ELECTRICAL  AND  GAS  SUPPLIES 

867  FLATBUSH  AVE.  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


i 

I 


LC  ACQUISITIONS  ^ 

iiniiiiiiiiir 

0  030  518  699  5 


APRIL2Q13  j 

^  <  ° 

*A        ^  O 


o 


en 


o  S 

^  a 

I 


(j)  o 
O  0 


1 

© 


o  2 
O  O 

P  LP 

r 


CO 

% 

CD 
C/5 


o 

9 


CD 
CO 


mnnhiiiii, 


til!ll!!!!!l!i 


