Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


/ 


/■ 


-/ 


/ 


t 


/ 


(f 


■    y 


nt  n-n  rmj 

frauc  LIBRARY- 1 


THE 


COOK'S    GUIDE, 

•USEKEEPER'S  &  BUTLER'S  ASSISTANT; 

t 

PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  ENGLISH  ANB  FOREIGN 
COOKERY  IN  ALL  ITS  BRANCHES ; 

ooMTAxmnro 

^[N  INSTRUCTIONS  FOB  PICKLING  AND  PRESERVING  VEGETABLES^ 

FRUITS^  GAME,  &o.i 

S)e  Cturiim  at  %amtf  siOr  Mutant 

IHB  ART  OF  CONFECTIONARY  AND  ICE-MAKING,  AND  THI& 
ARRANGEMENT  OF  DES3ERT& 

H  VALUABLE  DIRECTIONS  FOR   THE  PREPARATION  OF  PROPER  OIET 

FOR  INVALIDS; 

ALSO  FOR  A  VARIETT  OF  WINE-CUPS  AND  EPICUREAN  SALADS; 
AMERICAN  DRINKS,  AND  SUMMER  BEVERAGES, 

BY 

CHAELES  ELME  FEANCATELLI, 

L  OV  THB  CKI^BRATBD  OAR&MB,  SEVEN  TEARS  CHEF  DB  GUISIKE  TO  THE   BRVOSM 
CLUB,  AM)  IJLTE  MAITBB-d'hOTEL  AND  CHIEF  COOK    TO 

^  HER   MAJtSTY  THE  QUEEN. 

AUTHOR  OF  "  THE  MODERN  COOK." 

WITH  UPWAIEBBS  OF  FOBTT  IIXTUSTTBATTION? 

TWENTY-SECOND  THOUSAND. 

LONDON: 
HAED  BBNTLEY,  NEW  BUBLINGTON  STREET. 

1.557.'    '       -   '       /      ^ 


't> 


TA2.  i:ew  yo^'.k 
FU-'I-:  I/BRARY 

692506  A 

A^TO^,  LEN-r.x  and 

TIJLDLN  FOUNDATIONS 


U)NI>ON 


AKD  CHARD5G  CROSS. 


.     •      •  • 

•  • : 


V    •    V 


k.      to  *> 


P  E  E  F  A  C  E. 


h  writing  the  present  Work,  I  have  been  actuated 
principally  by  a  desire  to  comply  with  numerous  appli- 
cations from  ladies  and  gentlemen  with  whom  I  have 
the  honour  of  being  acquainted, — to  the  effect  that  1 
should  write  another  Book  on  Cookery  of  a  less  com- 
phcated  chai*actor,  and  consequently  upon  a  more  econo- 
mical system,  than  my  **  Modern  Cook." 

Encouraged  by  their  assurances  of  success,  I  have 
bronght  all  my  experience  and  energy  to  bear  on  the 
tmdertaking,  and  trust  that  my  endeavours  will  meet 
with  a  renewal  of  the  favour  so  readily  and  constantly 
awarded  to  my  first  Work,  to  which  I  beg  lespectfully 
to  refer  all  my  Eeaders  who  may  feel  desirous  of  be- 
coming more  intimately  acquainted  with  the  study  of 
Clasgical  Cookejy. 

It  is  generally  believed,  that  in  order  to  write 
efficiently  upon  any  given  subject,  a  thorough  know- 
ledge of  that  subject  is  essGntial — and  no  doubt  this 
idea  is  conscientiously  acted  upon  in  most  cases ;  but 
tbere  is  little  need  of  argument  on  my  part  to  show 


beyond  a  doubt  that  too  many  who  have  presumed  to 
write  upon  the  Art  and  Science  of  Cookery  are  very 
far  from  possessing  any  real  and  adequate  knowledge 
of  the  art  and  science  they  so  recklessly  attempt  to 
teach.  There  does  not,  in  fact,  exist  a  sound  practical 
work  on  Cookery  adapted  to  the  general  requirements 
of  the  Middle  Classes  whose  incomes  range  between  a 
few  hundreds  and  thousands  per  annum ;  and  in  proof  of 
this  assertion,  I  need  quote  only  a  few  instances  out  of 
very  many  of  the  ignorance  and  incapacity  manifested 
in  Treatises  on  the  subject  which  have  had  a  large 
share  of  public  patronage.  Thus,  in  the  **  The  Modem 
Housewife,"  at  page  122,  you  are  instructed  to  make 
green-pea  soup  with  milk!  In  a  book  professing  to 
teach  how  to  cook  rabbits,  you  are  taught  the  indis- 
criminate use  of  wine,  lemon,  vinegar,  butter,  garlic, 
spices,  and  cayeune  pepper  in  sufficient  quantities  to 
produce  considerable  evil  to  the  digestive  organs; 
while  in  another  work  you  are  directed  how  to  cook 
oysters  in  a  variety  of  ways  capable  only  of  rendering 
that  delicious  article  of  food  perfectly  unpalatable  as 
well  as  indigestible.  At  page  72  of  **  Modem  Domestic 
Cookery,"  we  are  told  that  gravy  soup  is  to  be  flavoured 
with  walnut  catsup! — at  page  74,  ox-cheek  soup  is 
directed  to  be  rendered  delectable  with  walnut  catsup, 
Chili  vinegar,  and  brandy! — at  page  90,  we  are  told 
that  in  order  to  procure  turtle  soup  in  greatest  per- 
fection,  it  must  be  seasoned  with  curry  powder! — 
^t  page  95,  we  are  informed  tliat  bottgI  must  be  used  in 


PUEFAOE.  T 

making  green-pea  soup  I  The  use  of  KoiTel  in  this  case 
would  tend  to  produce  pea  soup  both  yellow  and  sour, 
but  certainly  neither  green  nor  sweet,  two  character- 
istics indispensable  to  the  production  of  good  green-pea 
soup;  but  let  these  specimens  of  the  style  of  cookery 
contained  in  this  book  suffice  to  show  that  the  profes- 
sional gentleman,  who  we  are  assured  in  the  Preface 
presided  over  the  last  revision  of  '*  Modem  Domestic 
Cookery"  has  not  succeeded  in  establishing  his  claimn 
to  he  considered  a  professed  cook. 

Such  luminous  information  as  this  is  to  be  met  with 
throughout  the  pages  of  all  similar  works  on  Cookeiy, 
which  have  evidently  not  been  written  by  cooks,  or  by 
persons  in  any  degree  qualified  to  write  on  the  subject. 
In  the  composition  of  this  Work,  I  have  been  con- 
stantly stimulated  by  a  desire  to  produce  an  accurate 
Guide   to   the   Study  of  Cookery  in   all  its  branches, 
embracing  correct  and  practical  methods  for  preserving 
Meats,  Vegetables,  Fruits,  &c. — the  curing  of  Hams  and 
Bacon — and   the   preparation  of  good   and  wholesome 
Pickles.     This   Work   contains   also   the   Art  of  Con- 
fectionaiy  in  all  its  particulars;  the  most  recent  im- 
provements  in   the  pieparation   of  Jams   and   Jellies, 
Compotes,    Dussert  (!'akes   and   Bon-bons,   Water    and 
Cream  Ices,  Summer  Drinks,  &c.     It  contains  also  co- 
pious l^ecipes  for  making  Wine  and  other  kinds  of  Cups ; 
a  variety  of  Salads  and  Appetisers,  American  Drinks 
and  Granitos,  which  will  be  found  of  material  use  to 
Butlers,  by  enabling  them  to  poiibrm  certain  portions 


«i  HIIEFACK. 

of  their  duties  with  greater  satisfaction  to  their  oin- 
ployers. 

And  with  a  view  to  the  comforts  of  Invalids  and 
Children,  herein  will  bo  found  ample  instructions  for 
the  judicious  preparation  of  light,  wholesome,  and 
nutritious  food ;  also  a  variety  of  Medicinal  Drinks, 
the  composition  of  which  has  been  approved  of  by  a 
cele!'.xated  chemist,  Mr.  Savory,  of  New  Bond  Street. 

To  render  the  Work  as  complete  as  possible,  I  have 
added  a  series  of  Bills  of  Fare  for  every  Month  of  the 
Year,  in  English  and  French — and  a  most  copious 
Index. 

a  E.  FRANCATELLI. 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


TO 


FKANOATELLI'S  COOK'S  GUIDE. 


No.  of  Radpe.    Pag* 
Putnut  of  the  Author — Phmtispi^et, 

Turbot            •••        ,.•        •••        •••         .«•        •••  191  66 

StinKMi            •••        ...        ft*        •••        •••        •••  200  69 

iltMl*   •••            •••            •••            •#•           •••            •••            •••  Mx9  i4 

Polled  BroMl              332  114 

I' I'&W  us       •••     •••     •••     •••     •••     •••  iMrcf  ^"^ 

Grilled  Kippered  Salmon        339  — 

v/ysters            ■••         •••         •••         •••         •••         •••  w4f  *^ 

Pickled  Salmon            ...         ...         ...         • 345  — 

^^ftTulDGS         ese       •••       eee       eee       •••       eee  UY*  ^** 

Pat3  of  Butter            689  130 

Redish^          ...         *••         .«.         ...         *••         •..  367  *— 

UUTeB                    ...             ...             ...             •••             ...             ...  OOv  "^ 

Oherkins         ••'•         ...         ...         ...         ...         ...  966  — 

1  uimy              ...         ...         ...         ...         ••*         ...  o%x  "*" 

AodioTies        ...         ...         ...         ..*         •••         ...         343  -^ 

Leg  of  Mutton 411  145 

Haanch  of  ditto           ... 424  151 

Sitddle  of  ditto            425  152 

Ham  glazed  with  Spinach       450  164 

Koast  Turkey              •        464  173 

Capon  k  la  R^gence     .*•        471  176 


TUl  HiLUSTRATIOKS. 

Chickais  and  Tongue  i  la  Macedoine 

Vol-aa-vent  k  la  Financi^re 

P&t^-Chaad  of  Pigeons  i  la  Financi^ 

Timbale  of  Macanmi  

Border  of  Rice  2k  la  Bdne        

Magarine  of  Salmon     •••        •••        •••         ••• 

Chartreuse  of  Partridges         

Croustade  of  Laxks      •••         •••         •••        ••• 

Tonrte  of  Godiveau 

Lamb  Cntiets  i  la  Duchesse 

Snprftme  of  Fowls  i  la  Royale  ...        ••. 

Fricasseie  of  ChM^ens  2k  la  Havelock   ... 
CSroustade  of  Quenelles 
Nougats  of  Almonds    ... 

Corauoopia      

Meringues  i  la  Crftme 

Apple  Meringues  2k  la  Portugaise        

Apple  Charlotte  ...        •••        •••        •••        ... 

Maoddoine  of  Whole  Fruits  in  Jelly ,., 

Ham  with  Aqpic  JeUy    •••        •••    mc        •••        ••• 


No.ofBedpe.     Piigo 


479 

198 

518 

197 

519 

199 

520 

200 

521 

201 

522 

202 

523 

203 

524 

204 

525 

205 

612 

239 

615 

240 

620 

242 

627 

246 

754 

313 

754a 

315 

766 

322 

797a 

342 

797B 

343 

SkAUk 

367 

930 

39T 

CONTENTS. 


P441 

CHAPTER  I. 
STOCKS  AND  SAUCES. 

litEodii^Btion.— The  Stook-pot 1 

Btoek— White  Veal — Brown  Gravy — Game  Stock — Economical  Stock 
—How  to  clarify  Stocks  or  Broths— Aspic  Jelly—- Economical  Aspic 
Jelly — Brown  Thickening  for  Sauces — White  Thickehing  for  Sauces 
—Extract  of  Game  for  Gravy — Brown  Sauce — White  Sauce — Eco- 
nomy of  Second  Stocks  or  Broths.     Sauces — White  Bechamel- 
Cream  Bechamel  —  AUemande—  Economical  White —  Poiviade — 
Genoese — Toraata — Piquante — Italian — Financi^re — Brown    Caper 
—White  Caper — Sharp-^Refonn — Chevreuil — Brown,  Cold — Ger- 
man, for  Boai-*s  Head — Maitre  d'H6tel  — Economical  Maitie  d'Ho- 
tel  —  Ravigote  —  Robert —  Poulette  — Mayonaise^Tartai^ — Melted 
Butter  or  Butter — Lobster — Shrimp— Muscle — White  Oyster — 
Brown  Oyster — Egg — Port-Wine,  for  Wild  Fowl — Venison — Pars- 
ley—  Anchovy — Apple  —  Green   Goosebeiry — Fennel — Mustard — 
Brown  Butter — Onion — Bretonne  —  Green  Ravigote  —  Soubise  — 
Neapolitan — Bourguignotte— Poor-man's  —  Cardinal — Richelieu — 
Shalot — ^Truffle  — Mushroom — P^rigueux  —  Salmis — Proven9ale — 
Bmd — Fried  Bread-crumbs — Spinach  Greening — Indian   Sauce — 
fine-herbs  Sauce — D'Uxelles  Sauce — Brown  Colouring — Chateau- 
Maud — Hoi-seradish — Dutch — Clear  Tarragon — Prince  of  Wales* 
.jLi.Catanova — Devil's — Ham  —  Cuiry  —  Brown  Matelote — White 
Milelote — Aurora  —  Stragotto  —  Lyonnaise —  Celery  —  Russian 
■**Afanond  Cream —  Plum — Cheiry  —  Raspberry  —  Arrowroot  — 

finr  Pudding — Whip— Oi-ange 1 


X  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  II. 
UABNISHES  FOB  ENTBKES  OB  OTHEB  MADE  DISHES. 

PAOB 

Maeedoiae  of  Vej^tables  —  Jardiniere — Reform  Chips  —  Glazed 
Onions — Glazed  Can*ots — Cucumber  Garnish  —  Green  Peas  for 
Garnish — Asparagus  Peas,  &c.  Puree  of  Green  Peas  for  Garnish 
—of  Spinach— of  Sprue  Asparagus—  of  Potatoes— of  Chestnuts-^ 
of  Can-ots — of  Articholtes— of  Turnips — of  Celery^-of  Sorrel— 
of  Poultry— of  Game — Patty  Meats — Chipolata — ttagont — Finan- 
ci6re — Toulouse  —  Milanese  —  Maitre-d' Hotel  Butter^  Anchory 
Butter — Lobster  Butter — Kpicui-ean  Butter— Devil  Mixture    .  31 

CHAPTER  HI. 

SOUPS  IN  GENEBAL. 

Soups  —  Julienne  —  Jardiniere  —  Biilnoise  — Spring — Chiffooad^— 
Celery  and  Button-Onion — D'Esdignac — Consomm^  with  Quenelles 
— Soups,  Carlton-House — Mock-Turtle,  clear — Mock-Turtle — Gib- 
let,  clear — Giblet,  thick — Ox-Tail — Ox-Cheek — Mulligatawney — 
Duchess— Calfs  Tail— Calf s  Feet— Grouse— Hare— Peas— Green 
Prtfls — Asparagus — Cai-iot,  i  la  Cressy-  Potato— Mutton  Broth — 
Scotch  Broth — Hodge-Podge— Knuckle  of  Veal  and  Rice  Seup— 
Cocky-Leeky — Onion  Pomdge — Bonne  Femme — Palestine — White 
Celery — ^Tomip— Macait)ni — Vermicelli — Italian  Paste —  Raviolis 
— Lord  Marcus  Hill's — Lobster — Crab— Crayfish — Prawn — Vio 
toria — White,  i  la  Reine — Spring  Herbs  —  Russian,  or  Tschi — 
Spanish — Proven^ale,  or  Bouillabaisse — Vegetable  Marrow— ChesU 
nut— German — Italian — Oyster 40 

CHAPTER  IV. 

BBEAD  PANADA,  &c. ;  AND  DBESSED  FISH  IN 

GENEBAL. 

Bread  Panada— Quenelle  Forcemeat  of  Veal — Of  Whitings— Lobster 
Quenelles— Foixemeat  of  Liver  and  Ham,  for  Baised  Pies — For 
Preserving  Game — Godiveau.  Tnrbot*  plain  Boiled — i  la  Pari- 
sienne — Grilled  i  la  Vatel — k  la  Normande^With  Cream  au  Qratin 
— k  la  Bechamel — Fillets  of  Turbot — Brill—  John  Dory.  WAlmrni^ 
Plain — Grilled — i  la  Tartare — a  la  R^nce — Matelotte  of  Salmon 
— Fillets  of  Salmon  k  Tlndienne — a  la  Marechale — k  la  Tartare — 
a  la  Ravigote — Salmon  Boiled  af\er  the  Scotch  Fashion.  Troatf 
plain  Boiled— Grilled,  with  Epicurean  :^auce — With  Genoese  Sauce 
— kPAurore — Fillets  of  Trout  Sturgeon  a  la  Cardinal  —  k  la 
Bourguignotte — i  la  Royale — Grilled,  Piquante  Sauce.  Cod-fiah, 
Jiaked  and  Staffed— Crimped-Cod,  Oyster  Sauce— Cod  i  la  Diippoee 


CONTENTS.  XI 

PA«R 


—Fried,  k  la  Portngaise—  Grilled,  k  la  Colbert— 4  la  Rtligieuie— k 
!;«  Cr€me — Kice,  Plain,  Boiled  tor  Curries — Baked  Ccxi's  head. 
Haddock,  Egg  Sauce— Baked  —  Grilled  —  Fillet»  of  Haddock. 
Soles,  Boiled — Fried — Ala  Colbert — auGratin — with  Fine-heibs — 
a  I'Aurore — Normande  —  k  la  Cardinal — Fillets  of  J:>ole — k  la 
Taitire— A  la  Houennaise— Fried — Fillets  of  Fish,  Fried  in  Batter. 
Chunet,  Boiled— Baked— Fillets  of  Gurnet.  Mackerel,  Boiled  k 
la  Maitre  d'Hotel — Grilled,  with  Brown  Butter  JSauce — Fillets  of 
Mackerel  k  la  Maitie  d'Hotel.  Bed  MoUets,  Grilled— with  Fine- 
herbs — In  Papers — k  la  Chesterfield.  Whitings,  Boiled — Fried 
— Broiled — Au  Gratin — k  la  Fran9ai8e— Fillets  of  Whiting  k  la 
Horly.  Char,  Grilled — Water  Souchet  of.  Lampreys,  Stewed — 
Smelts,  Fried— Baked.  Eels,  Spitchcocked— Stewed— 4  la  Tar- 
tare — White.  Carp,  Fried— Stewed^-^tutled  and  Baked.  Tench, 
Stewed — Barbel,  Hoach,  and  Dace— Pike,  Baked — Perch* — Skate 
Crimped,  with  Brown  Butter.  White-bait— Devilled.  Oysters, 
Scolloped  —  Muscles,  Scolloped  — -  Lobster,  Scolloped  —  CoUops, 
Scolloped — Cockles,  Scolloped B3 

CHAPTER  V. 
FRYING  BATTERS.— STUFFINGS  AND  SEASONINGS. 

Frying^  Batter — German — Italian — Yorkshii-e  Pudding — Suet  Pud- 
ding— Veal  Stuffing — Bread  Crumbs— Fiied — Sage-and-onion  Stuf- 
Hng — Stuffing  for  Hares — Cold  Marinade  Pickle.  Mirepoiz,  or 
Foundation  for  tiavouring  Sauces  or  Game  Soups  ...  98 

CHAPTER  VI. 

APPETISERS  FOR  BREAKFAST  OR  LIGHT  SUPPERS.- 

8ALADS. 

Eice  Cnrried— Turkish  Fashion  —  Polish  Fashion — Pietlmontese 
Fashion — Milanese  Fashion — Florentine  Fashion — Spanish  Fashion 
—a  la  Sceur  Nightingale.  Raviolis  h,  la  Napolitaine  —  Ivonian 
Gniocchi — Oysters  Fried — Scollops  of  Meat  or  of  Fish — Uizzolietti. 
Bissoles — Croquets  of  Meat,  or  Fish — Fried  Salmon  Roe — Lobster 
<- roquets — Oyster  Croquets.  Marrow  Toast  a  la  Victoria — 
Manow-Bor.es — Patties.  Cronstades — PuW'-Paste  Patties — Mutton 
Pies  k  la  Windsor — v^avoury  T)  ifles — Turkish  Pilau — Indinn  Pilau 
— Pooloot — Yai-mouth  Bloaters — Grilled  Kippered  Salmon — Dried 
Haddocks — Pulled  Crisp  Bread — Toasted  Cheese — Cheese  Canupees 
—Anchovy  Canapees — Prince  of  Wales*  Cauapees— Devilled  Biscuits 
—Anchovy  Toast — Devilled  Salmon— Devilled  Gam  —  Tunny  — 
Saidines — Anchovies — Pickled  Fish — Salmon — Soused  Mackerel — 
Ovsters,  Devilled — Prawns — Olives — Kussian  Kromeskys — Dutcn 


til  CONTENTS. 

Herrings  —  Croquets  of  Macaroni  —  Italian  Polpetti  -»  Geiman 
Schpeiscblitz — German  Quenelles.  Boxmes-Boncheft— Sandwiches 
—Adelaide — Victoiia — Bretby — Irish — Fish — Prince's — For  Ball- 
Snppers-'Oi'dinary.  Salads  in  General— English — Cucumber — 
French — ^Beetroot  and  Spanish  Onion— Italian— -Spanish — Russian 
—  Flemish  —  German  —  Cazanova— li,  la  Rachel  —  Y^tabte — 
Hamboi-o* i02 

CHAPFER  VII. 

REMOVES  IN  GENEBAL. 

Beet,  Roast  Sirloin  of — Roast  Ribs  of — ^Boiled  Round  of— Aitchbone 
of— Rolled  Thin  Flank  of— Braized  Roll  of,  i  la  Beamaise— Stewed 
Rump  of — Ribs  ft  la  Mode — Fillets  Larded — 4  la  Napolitaine — k 
la  Richelieu  —  Braized,  k  la  Milton — Pressed.  Ox-tongues — 
Braized— Hunting  Beef.  Veal,  Roast  Fillet  of— Roast  Neck  of— 
Braized  Neck  of — Neck  of  Larded — Noix  or  Cushion  of  Veal — i  la 
St.  George — k  la  St.  Cloud — Roast  Loins  of— Braized — k  la  Crdme 

.  — Roast  Breast  of — Rolled  a  la  Printaui^re — a  la  Chipolata. 
Muttont  Boiled  Leg  of — Braized — k  la  Napolitaine — a  la  ProVen- 
9ale — k  la  Bretonne — k  la  Soubise — Neck  of,  Boiled — a  Tlrlandaise 
—Roebuck  Fashion — k  la  Soubise — k  PAllemande — with  Pui'^e  of 
SorreL  Sheep's-head  Gallimaufried — Mutton,  Haunch  of.  Roast — 
Saddle  of,  Roast — k  la  Polonaise — Shoulder  of.  Boiled — Stufied — 
Loins  of.  Lambf  Roast  Fore-quarter  of — Ribs  or  Target  of-^Leg 
of.  Boiled — Shoulder  of,  Grilled — k  la  Montmorency — Lamb's 
Head— Saddle  of.  Braized— H  la  Villeroi.  Scotch  Haggis.  Pork, 
Boiled  Leg  of — German  Fashion — Roast  Leg  of — Roast  Sparerib  of 
—How  to  Pickle — Roast  Sucking  Pig — Roast  Pig  k  la  Perigueux — 
&UChipolat»— Bath  Chaps— Chine  of  Pork  •        .        •         131 

CHAPTER  Vni. 

DIFFERENT  METHODS  OF  DRESSINQ  HAMS. 

How  to  select  a  Ham— To  Boil  a. York  Ham— Glazed  with  Spinach 
— ^How  to  dress  a  Westphalia  Ham — A  Spanish  Ham — To  Roast 
Hams — Baked  Hams   ..•••...        163 

CHAPTER  IX. 

REMOVES  OF  VENISON,  RED  DEER,  AND  ROEBUCK. 

Veniso&i  Roast  Haunch  of — Roast  Shoulder  of — Roast  Neck  of. 
Venison  Fry — Chops.  Sed  Beer,  Haunch  of  Roebuck — Haricot 
of— Cutlets •        •         168 


00NTENT8.  1111 


CHAPTER  X. 
REMOVES  OF  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Torke V,  Roast — k  la  Chipolata — k  la  Proven^ale — Boiled — k  la  Tork- 
shire.  CSapon  k  la  Perigueuz — k  la  Pi^montaise — k  la  K^gence— 
Boiled — Chicken  and  Bacon  Boiled.  Oroiue  k  la  Kinoaird. 
Black  Game  k  la  Roytile  —  Chicken  and  Rice.  Chicken  k  la 
Romaine — k  la  Milanaise — Chickens  and  Tongue  k  la  Mac^doine. 
Pheasant  k  la^Portugaise— k  la  Gitana — k  la  Flamande — Boiled, 
k  la  Soubise  —  Roast  Pheasant,  Liver  Stuffing.  Partridges, 
Braized  with  Cabbages — k  la  Victoria — k  la  Prince  of  Wales — 
With  Sage  and  Onion.  Ooose»  Roast,  with  Sage  and  Onion- 
Braized  k  la  Jardiniere — k  TArlesienne.  Dnoks  Stewed  k  TEspag- 
Bole — ^With  Peas — Braized  with  Turn  ps  .        .        .         173 

CHAPTER  XI. 
MEAT  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

Chicken  and  Ham  Pie — Pigeon  Pie  k  I'Anglaise.  Oronse  Pie  k 
l'£cossaise — Partridge  Pie  k  la  Chasseur — Giblet  Pie — Beefsteak 
and  Oyster  Pie — Veal  and  Ham  Pie — Mutton  Pie  k  Tlrlandaise— 
Potted  Snipes,  Irish  Fashion— Pie  of  Small  Birds.  Lark  Pie  a  la 
Melton  Mowbray — Beefsteak  and  Oyster  Pudding — Mutton  Pud- 
ding— Kidney  Pudding — Pudding  k  la  Chipolata — Snipe  Pudding  k 
I'Epicurienne — Sausage  Pudding  Yorkshire  Veal  Cake — Hare  Cake 
—Fish  Pie  k  la  Ste.  Terese— k  la  Ste.  Ursula^Potato  Pie— Leek 
Flammish 185 

CHAPTER  XII. 

r 

ENTREES ;  OR  FIRST-COURSE  SIDE  DISHES  OF 

PASTRY,  &o. 

Vol-an-Vent  a  la  Financiere — P&te-Chaud  of  Pigeons— Timbale  of 
Macaroni — Border  of  Rice  a  la  Reine.  Mazarine  of  Salmon — 
Chartreuse  of  Partridges — Croustade  of  Larks— Tourte  of  Oodi- 
veau 197 

CHAPTER  XIIL 

PLAIN  ENTREES;   OR  SIDE  DISHES  FOR  EVERY-DAY 

FARE. 

Hashed  Beef— with  Pickled  Walnuts— Minced  Beef— Grilled  Bones 
— Devilled  Bones — Bubble-and-Squeak — Rumpsteak,  Plain.  Ox- 
kidney  Grilled— Stewed— Beef  Collops— Boiled— Beef  au  Gratin— 


XllF  OOMTENTS. 

tXQM 

Mironton  of  Beef— Toad-in-the-Hole— Vinegaret  of  Beef— Tripe 
Boiled— Fried— Stewed— Baked— Pork  Chops— Cutlete— Pig's  F17 
— Curried  Pork.  Hashed  Mntton,  plain — Mutton  Hashed  Veni- 
son Fashion — h  Tlndieiine — Minced  Mutton — Mutton  Chops — Cut^ 
lets,  Plain — Biead-crumbed— Sheep's  Kidneys  Stewed — h.  TEpicu- 
rienne — With  Fine-herbs — Sheep's  Trotters— Calfs  Liver  and  Bacon 
— Calfs  Liver  a  la  Mode — Scotch  Col  lops — Veal  Cutlets  with 
Moshi'Doms — Mince  Veal  with  Poached  Eggs — Calfs  Brains  a  la 
Ravigote — With  Nut-brown  Butter— Fried — In  Cases  an  Gratin — 
Calfs  Feet  k  la  Bourgeoise — k  la  Poulette — Fried.  Lamb's  Head 
Gallimaufried — Iamb's  Fry — Lamb's  Feet  k  la  Poulette — Lamb 
Chops  Breaded  —  Lamb  Cutlets  with  Cucumber  —  k  la  Robert. 
Sweetbread  Roasted— Sweetbread  Cutlets — Beefsteaks  k  la  Fran- 
9ai86 — k  la  Chateaubriand  —with  Anchovy  Butter — Epicurean- 
Fillets  of  Beef  a  la  Soubise.  Calfs  Head  and  Bacon— Calf 's  Head 
Hashed — Broiled — k  la  Financidre — Turtle  Fashion — Ox-tail,  Hari- 
cot of — with  Stewed  Peas — Breaded  and  Grilled— Breast  of  Mutton 
Graied— Irish  Stew 207 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

ENTREfiS  OF  SUPEBIOR  CLASS. 

Oz-Palates  a  la  Florentine— Carried.  Mutton  Outlets  k  la  Sou- 
bise— a  la  V^icomtesse— k  la  Reforrae — k  la  Proven 9ale— Fillets  of 
Mutton,  Roebuck  Fashion — ^k  la  Jardiniere — Escalopes  of  Mutton 
with  Fine-herbs.  Veal  Cutlets  k  la  Financi^re — k  la  Maintenon — 
k  la  Russe.  Sweetbread  k  la  Toulouse — k  la  Villeroi — Tendons 
of  Veal  with  Spinach — Curried.  Lamb  Cutlets  k  la  Princesse — 
kla  Duchesse- Lamb's  Sweetbread,  Larded— Scolloped.  Supreme  of 
Fowl  k  la  Royale — Fillets  of  Fowls  with  Asparagus  Peas — Esca- 
lopes of  Fowl  and  Cucumber — Chicken  Cutlets  k  la  Dauphine— 
Legs  of  Fowls  k  la  Wellington.  Fricassee  of  Chickens  k  la 
Havelock— Chickens  a  I'lnkermann— k  la  Tartare— Grilled  Fowls 
with  Puree  of  Mushrooms — Boiled  Fowls  k  la  Cardinal— Chickens 
or  Fowls  a  la  Homaine.  Boudins  of  Pheasant  k  la  Richelieu^-of 
Fowls  k  la  Lucullus — Croustade  of  Quenelles — Boudins  of  Grouse 
k  la  Stanley.  Quenelles  of  Fowl  k  la  Supreme — Pheasant  k  la 
St.  George,  a  la  Gudewife — Salmis  of-^Partridges  k  la  Beamaise, 
Stewed,  with  Celery  Sauce.  Grouse  Cutlets  k  la  Glengarry — 
Fillets  of  Partridges  k  la  Thackeray.  Babbitt  Fricass^  of — k  la 
Tartare — Boiled,  with  Bacon — with  Fine-herbs— Fried  in  Batter — 
Curried,  anl  Rice.  Woodcocks  k  la  Chasseur.  Snipes  i  la  Bonue- 
Bouche.  Wild  Fowl  a  la  Chasseur — American  Fashion — Civet  of 
Leveret — Jugged  Hare.  Baron  of  Bee^  German  Fashion — Wild 
Fowl  k  la  Bigarrade — Capilotada  of  Fowl       .         •        .         ,         231 


OONTBNTS.  X^ 

CHAPTER  XV. 
SECOND  COURSE— ROAST. 

PAGI 

Hare,  Boait.  Rabbit.  Roast.  Pheasant,  Roast.  Partridgea, 
Koast.  Qnails,  Roast — Ruffs  and  Rees.  XArks,  Roast— Wood- 
codes  and  Snipes.  Capons,  Roast.  Careen  Gtoose — Pigeons,  Roast 
—Black  Game  and  Grouse,  Roast— Pea-hens— Guinea-fowl      .         257 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

HOW  TO  DRESS  VEGETABLES. 

Braiaed  Oelery  with  Brown  Sauce— Celery  2k  la  Villeroi.  Salsifis  )i 
la  Cr€me — Salsifis  fried  in  Batter.  Spinach  with  Butter— Spinach 
with  Cream.  Endive  with  Cream.  Cauliflowers  with  White 
Saaoe — Cauliflowers  with  Parmesan  Cheese.  Tomatas  k  la  Pro- 
Yen^e.  Mndirooms  au  Gratin — Large  Truffles  k  la  Serviette — 
Trumes  i  la  Pi^ontaise  —  Portugal  Onions  k  TEspagnole. 
Artichokes  with  Butter  Sauce — Artichokes  k  la  Barigoule—r Arti- 
chokes k  la  Lyonnaise — Artichokes  k  Tltdienne.  Asparagus  with 
White  Sauce— Asparagus  Peas  k  la  Crime.  Frendi  Beans  k  la 
Mattre  d*H6tel— French  Beans  with  Fine-herbs — Broad  Beans  k  la 
Crime — Green  Peas  plain — Stewed  Peas — Peas  k  la  Fran9aise. 
Turnips  Glacis  with  Sugar  —  Young  Carrots  k  TAlIeniande. 
Vegetable-marrow.  Cucumbers  k  la  Poulette  —  Cucumbers  k 
TEspagnole.  Jerusalem  Artichokes  —  Jerusalem  Artichokes  k 
ritalienne.  White  Haricot  Beans  k  la  Maltre  d'Hotel— White 
Haricot  Beans  k  la  Bretonne — American  Yams.  Potatoes  k  la 
Maltre  d'H6tel — New,  k  la  Crime — au  Gratin — k  la  Lyonnaise — 
k  la  Proven9ale— Croquet  s  la  Duchesse — Baked — k  I'ltalienne — 
Potato  Salad  —  Mashed  Potatoes — Fried.  Sea-kale  k  la  Sauce. 
Brusels  Sprouts    .       .        .•••..         263 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

DIFFERENT  METHOD  OF  DRESSING  EGGS. 

^gi  a  la  Tripe — Eggs  au  Gratin — Eggs  with  Truffles.  Omelet 
with  Fine-herbs — with  Shalots— with  Parmesan  Cheese — with 
Kidneys — with  Oysters.  Poached  Eggs  with  Anchovy  Toast — 
with  Ham — Eggs  k  la  Dauphine — k  lAurore — with  Nut-brown 
Batter— k  la  Suisse.  Macaroni  k  I'ltalienne^with  Cream — au 
Gratin — ^Timbale  of  Macaroni  k  la  Florentine.  Nouilles  k  la 
Paleraio— Timbale  of  Nouilles  k  la  Vanille  .         ,        ,  28  T 


!▼!  OONTENTB. 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 
RAISED  PIES  AND  TIMBALES. 

TAGM 

Chnitmas  Pie.  Piei —  Yorkshi  re — Devonshire  —  Leioestenhire — 
Bichmond  Eel  Pie — ^French  Timbale — ^How  to  core  Hams  and 
Bacon— Welsh  Hanw 289 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

CAKES  IN  GENERAL. 

Brioche  Paste — Cakes — ^Baba,  or  Polish  —  Compile — Parisum — 
Victoria — 5avarin — Savoy — Plom — Plain  Seed — Pound — Genoese 
—  With  Almonds  —  Queen's  —  Almond  —  Ginger.  German 
Koo^ufle  —  Scotch  BrefuL  Ganffires  —  Flemish  —  Frendi  — 
Almond.  Hougata — Almond — Parisian — ^Small  a  la  Chantillv— 
Comaoopia — Madeleines — Spanish  Cakes,  or  Petits-Choox.  Pvtlte- 
Clumx  with  Caramel.  Loavei — Duchess  —  Mecca  —  Parinan — 
ProHtrolles.  ICeringnet  2k  la  Crdme.  Biieniti  —  Finger,  or 
Naples — Brussels,  or  Rusks — Italian — Venetian — Brown  Bread — 
Champagne  —  Orange  —  Peach  —  Apricot  —  Sidlian  —  BossiaD— 
Albert— Victoria.   Swedea— Choeolate  Olaoe— Snisw  Leerdets      294 

CHAPTER  XX. 

SMALL  PASTBY. 

CheesecaJces — IGrlitona — IVArtois  Cake — German  Toorte  of 
ootS"- Parisian  Turnover  of  Apples.  Dtriole^-^Cond^ 
lyArtois  of  Apricot — Pastrj  Custard,  or  Cream. 
Walnuts — Bread-and-Butter  Pastry — Rings,  or  Wreaths — Polish 
Cakes  —  Plaits.  Apple  a  la  PortngaiM—  Apple  Chariotta — 
Tartlets,  Apple — Cherry—Puff-Paste— Mosaic.  Pazifliaa  Loavea 
— Apple  Tart  with  Quince — Pear  Tart—Fruit  Tarts  in  Geoenl        383 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

FBITTEBS. 

Fritters,  Apple— Pine-Apple — Orange — Peadk — Qntra— Costaxd — 
Portuguese — Pudding— German — Spanish  Pnfis      •        •        .        341 

CHAPTER  XXn. 

SOUFFLES  AND  OMELET& 

Sonfflei,  Potato  Floor  —  Rice — Coffee— Fruit  —  Omelette  Sooffl^— 
Plain  Paneakea  SM 


coKTSNTs.  xyii 

CHAPTER  xxm.    , 

DIFFEBENT  KINDS  OF  PUDDINGS.  paoi 

Puddings,  Brown  Bread — Semotina — Victoria — ^German — Cabinet — 
Chestnat — Ginger — ^Pine-apple — Lemon — Orange — Plain  Bread — 
Rusk— Apple — Plum — ^Tapioca — Raspberry-Roll — MuflSn  •        ,     355 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

TELLIES  IN  GENERAL. 

Jellies,  Calfs-Feet — Gelatine — Orange — Lemon — Pine-apple — Cur- 
rant and  Raspberry-^Strawberrj — Maittschino— Noyeau — RussiaQ 
—  Punch.  Panachee— How  to  Clarify  Syrup— To  Clarify  Isin- 
glass. Macedoine  of  Whole  Fruits  ui  Jdly^Fruit  Jellies  Iced 
— Oranges  Filled  with  Jelly — Lemons  Filled  with  Jelly  or  Cream     862 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

DIFFEBENT  KINDS  OF  OBEAM. 

Blano-Manger — Creams,  Bavarian — Strawberry — Apricot — Co£Rm— 
Chocolate — Italian — Caramel — Celestine — Currant  and  Raspberry 
Cheese — Apricot  Cheese — Russian  Charlotte  ....        370 

CHAFFER  XXVI. 

CONFECTIONARY  AND  PRESERVING. 

How  to  Bottle  Gooseberries  —Currants — Raspberries— Strawberries 
— Cherries  —  Apricots  —  Peaches — Greengages — Orleans  Plums- 
Damsons — Pine-appleb — ^To  Preserve  Angelica  Green— To  Glac^ 
PiDe-apple  —  Dri«l  Pears— Apricots  —  Greengages  —  Chestnuts — 
Melons — Cucumbers  —  Oranges  in  Syrup  —  Preserved  Lemons — 
IMed  Cherries — Dried  Raspberries  .        .  .         ,        374 


CHAITEK  XXVn. 
COMPOTES  OF  FRUITS  FOR  DESSERTS 

Compotes  of  Apples — Pears — Oranges — Peaches — Apricots — Green- 
p^ — Cherries  — Pine-apples — Strawberries— Chestnuts — Imita- 
tion of  Ginger   38 

h 


XViis  aOSTMHTB. 


CHAPTER  XXVUI. 
DESSEBT  OAKEa  tm 


loed  SpongW— Dry  Satojb — Cracklings — ^Datch  Drops— Patii 
BLmoUi — Cimianion — Cx«am  —  lEagentai  —  Locknows — Tnriii 
Oakw— Transmits— Lore's  Wells 3^ 

CHAPTER  XXDL 

DIFFEBENT  KINDS  OF  IGE. 

Water  Imi,  Orange— Lemon — Pine-flpple  —  Pomegranate — Bleloo 
—Peach— Apricot -^  Strawbeny— Sonant  and  Raspberrj— 
Cheny— Boman  Qraaito — ked  Pondi  Gnnito  —  Iced  Roman 
Ponch 3S 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

GOLD  ENTBBEa  OB  CHICKEN,   LOBSTEB.  AND  FISI 

SALADS,  OB  MATONAISEa 

ChiekailS  a  la  Belle  Yue— Ham  with  Aspic  Jelly—Tongae  with  Aspic 
Jell  J — Galantine  of  Poolarde — ^ICayoiiaisef  of  Fowl— of  I  obster — 
of  Fillets  of  Sole— of  Sahnon— Oroaee  Salad— Fricass^  Chaad- 
firoidr— Salmis  Chaudfroid  of  Partridges— Potted  Fowl  and  Ham 
— ^Tongue — Pheasant — ^Hare — ^Beei — Lobster — Shrimps  — Bloaten 
—Smoked  Salmon — Aromatic  Herbaceous  Seasoning      .        •  3S 

CHAPTER  XXXL 

DIFFEBENT  KINDS  OF  PASTK 

Hot-water  Faite —for  Raised  Pies— Cold-water  Paste  for  Raided 
Pisa— Paste,  Short— light— Tart— Nouilles—Ahnood—Croquante  4'^ 


CHAPTER  XXXU. 
VABIOUS  KINDS  OF  PBESEBVED  YEaETABLES. 

Pieeerved  Peai — ^French  Beans  —  Windsor  Beans  — -  Cucumber — 
Toong  Carrots — ^Artidiokes — ^Moshrooms— Truffles — Dried  Herbs  40 

CHAPTER  XXXIH. 
DIFFEBENT  KINDS  OF  FICKLEa 


PleUed  CHieiUna— Onions— Red  Cabbage— Mixed  Pickles— Pkcal- 
Hlla    Rtmonlade 4l 


OUNTRNTS.  TIX 

CHAPTER  XXXIV. 
COOKEBY  FOR  INVALIDS  AND  INFANTS.       no* 

Beef  Tea — Veal  Tea.  Brothi  Hutton— Chicken— Pectorul—ftlud- 
lagiuoufl — In  vigomting — Restorative —  Panada,  Chicken — G  ame — 
Dr.  WretislaDirs  Str^igthening  Extract  of  Beef—- Almond  Milk 
Beven^^e — Isinglass  JeUj.  aIoo- water  —  Barley-water  —  Toast 
and  Water — Eau  Sucr^ — Arrowroot  —  Sago — Tapioca — Oruel — 
Brown  and  Poison's  Soutile  Pudding — Light  Pudding  tor  Invalids — 
Infiint^  Food — Savoury  Custard — Savoy  Sponge— ^Jooliug  Posset 
for  a  Cold.    KthL-Priei  or  German  thick  wSk  .       .       .       41 

CHAPTER  XXXV. 

JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

Jelliei,  Bed  Currant  —  Black  Currant —  Raspberry  —  Currant  and 
Haspberry — White  Currant  —  Apple.  Jam,  OooBeberry—  iiasp- 
berry — Damson — Apricot — ^Karmalade — Apple — Orange.         .      422 

CHAPTER  XXXVI. 

BON-BONS. 

Sunt  Almondi — Burnt  Pistachio  Pr&lines.  Drops,  Bose— Straw- 
berry—Punch. Bon-Bono — Chocolate — Coffee — Lemon  Cara^ 
mel — Cherry  Rings — Barley  Sugar 421 

CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

AMERICAN  DBINES. 

(Un-Sling.  Brandy-Smash  —  Cock-tail  —  Sherry  Cobler  —  Julep. 
Mint —  Pine-apple —  Egg  Nogg  —  Sleeper  —  Institution  Cup  — 
Locomotive — Poney  Punch — N  ightcap  —  Knickerbockei' — Si  iter — 
Ploster— Ching^hijig— St.  Charles 4^^ 

CHAPTER  XXXVIII. 
ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  SUMMER  DRINKS. 

Onageade—Lemonade.  Water.  Cherry — Currant — Strawberry— 
Pinie.«pple  —  Pomegranate  —  Orgeate,  or  Almond  Milk.  Claret 
Ganita^-Sherry  Grauito.    Gin  Pnnoh— Milk  Punch   .  AAb 


ooirrxNTs. 

CHAPTER  XXXIX. 

CBEAM  ICES.  fsii 

Cream  Ieet«  Ginger — ^Brown  Bread — Apricot — Pine-«pple — Straw- 
berry— Currant  and  Rasspberry— Coffee — Cho<»late---Goo8cberry 
Fuol — Iced  :>ouffltf — Iced  Biacuita — Iced  Bombe — LoTe*8  Cartndgea 
--Tattifrattir---Flonilner6S  Ices-Iced  Padding  i  la  Nesselrode       4^ 

CHAPTER  XL. 

HEDIOINAL  DBINES,  &c 

Teas,  Hop — Linaeed — Lime-flower — ^Violet — Camomile  —  Hyssop  — 
Saf^xm — Orange-flower — Dandelion — Marsb-mal low  Water —  1  nfa- 
sion  of  Roses — Iceland  Moss  Jelly — Mulberry  Water — Gargle  for 
Sore  Throat— Refreshing  Drink  for  a  Sore  Throat—A  Wash  to 
Prerent  the  Hair  from  foiling  off* — Corel  for  a  Cold  in  the  Head — 
For  Bams,  or  Scalds — For  Sprains — For  Chilblains — ^For  Cracked 
Lipe — For  Warts — ^For  Stings  from  a  Wasp  or  Bee — For  Tooth- 
ache— For  Chapped  Hand8---ContiDental  Drink  in  Treatment  of 
Typhas  Fever— Cold  Cream— How  to  Hake  Tea  and  Coflba— 
How  to  Extract  Coloar  from  Cochineal         ....  44 


Bills  of  Fare  for  every  Montn  m  the  Tear,  in  English  and  Frp^ch  4,' 

Glossary 4{ 

Index 4i 

Miscellaneons  Recipes 4! 

Instmctions  for  tlie  Service  otWinet         •        •        •        •  4! 

Instmetions  for  making  Drinldng-Cnpi     •        .        •        .  4< 


THE  COOFS  GUIDE, 


AKD 


HOUSEKEEPER'S  AKD  BUTLEffS  ASSISTANT. 


CHAPTEE  L 


INTRODUCTION. 


It  ought  never  to  be  lost  sight  of,  that  good  stocks, 
broths,  gravies,  and  essences  of  meats,  &c,,  aro  essen- 
tial to  the  basis  of  all  culinary  compositions,  ospeci- 
illy  when  it  is  desirable  to  attain  any  degree  of  per- 
fection in  the  various  preparations  required  for  the 
production  of  a  recherche  dinner.  On  ordinary  occasions, 
md  when  dining  en  famille^  these  may  be  in  a  great 
measure  dispensed  with ;  yet,  even  then,  a  little  j2;ood 
stock  ready  to  hand  will  ever  prove  a  great  elemont 
towards  success.  And  it  is  therefore  that  I  consider  it 
■lost  useful  to  commence  by  giving  easy  instructions 
for  what  I  may  term  *'  The  very  soul  of  all  Cookery,*' 
namely — 

No.  1.— THE  BTOCK-POT. 

Place  in  a  well-tinned  stock-pot,  capable  of  contain- 
ing about  eight  gallons,  about  ten  pounds  of  leg  or  shin 
of  beef,  and  an  equal  weight  of  knuckles  of  veal,  cut 
nito  pieces  ;  to  these  add  the  carcass  of  an  old  hen  and 
•  knuckle  of  ham ;  moisten  with  two  quarts  of  bioth 
W  water ;  set  the  stock-pot  on  the  fire  to  boil  down 
•fctiply  mitil  the  liquid  has  become  reduced  to  a  glaze 

It 


2  THE   COOE'8   6T7IDB,   AHD 

llie  heat  must  then  be  slackened  by  placing  asbea 
upon  the  fire  in  order  to  abate  its  fierceness,  so  as  to 
allow  the  glaze  to  attain  a  light-brown  colour,  Mrith- 
out  its  being  burnt  and  carbonized:  if  this  latter 
accident  happen,  it  tends  considerably  to  diminish  the 
stomachic  qualities  and  flavour  of  the  stock  or  consomm^. 
As  soon  as  the  consolidation  of  the  glaze  is  effected, 
make  up  the  fire,  fill  up  the  stock-pot,  and  when  it  boils, 
skim  it  thoroughly ;  after  which  garnish  with  six  car- 
rots, four  onions,  three  turnips,  four  leeks,  two  heads  of 
celery,  and  an  onion  in  which  twelve  cloves  have  been 
stuck ;  season  with  three  ounces  of  salt,  and  having 
allowed  the  stock  to  continue  gently  boiling  for  about 
five  hours,  remove  the  grease  from  its  surface ;  and 
then  proceed  to  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  clean  pans 
for  use,  as  will  be  directed  hereafter. 

No.  2.— WHITE  VEAL  STOCK. 

Break  up  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  place  it  in  a  five- 
gallon  stewpan,  with  any  trimmings  of  meat  jou  may 
have,  a  couple  of  rabbits  from  which  you  have  removed 
the  fillets  for  an  entree,  and  also  an  old  hen — the  fillets  of 
which  may  serve  for  force-meat ;  to  these  add  about  a 
potmd  of  lean  bacon  or  ham  ;  fill  up  with  water,  boil  and 
skim  the  stock  well,  garnish  with  four  carrots,  two  tumipe, 
two  heads  of  celery,  and  a  handful  of  parsley  tied  up  with 
a  bay-leaf  and  a  good  sprig  of  thyme,  a  handful  of  mush- 
rooms, a  blade  of  mace,  six  cloves,  twelve  peppercorns, 
and  two  ounces  of  salt :  allow  your  stock  to  boil  very 
gently  by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire  for  about  four  hours^ 
skimming  it  occasionally;  and  then  strain  it  off  into 
clean  pans  for  use  as  occasion  requires. 

No.  3.- BROWN  GRAVY. 

First,  place  some  flattened  pieces  of  beef-suet  at  tho 
bottom  of  a  stewpan  capable  of  holding  the  intended 
Quantity  of  gravy  to  be  produced  (calculating  at  tho 


H0n8EEE2PEB*S   AND   BUTLSB'S  ASSIST^m.  % 

rate  of  one  and  a  half  pound  of  meat  to  a  quart  of  water), 
cover  the  snet  with  thick  slices  of  onions,  and  oTer  all 
put  thick  slices  of  heef,  or  any  trimmings  of  meat  or 
tones  yon  may  happen  to  have  by  you ;  moisten  with 
stock  or  water  in  sufficient  quantity  barely  to  cover  ^e 
snifece  of  the  meat,  and  next  set  the  stewpan  thus  ^e- 
pared  on  a  brisk  fire,  to  boil  sharply  until  the  Uquor  is 
reduced  to  a  glaze  ;  when,  after  slackening  the  heat  of 
the  fire,  it  must  be  further  allowed  to  consolidate  by 
reduction,  in  order  that  it  may  become  of  a  very  brown 
colour  without  burning.  The  stewpan  must  now  be 
filled  up  with  cold  water,  allowed  to  boil,  be  well 
skimmed,  garnished  with  three  carrots,  two  heads  of 
celery,  a  blade  of  mace,  eight  cloves  stuck  in  an  onion, 
twelve  peppercorns,  and  two  ounces  of  salt.  The 
qnantities  of  garnish  an.d  seasoning  here  named  are 
intended  for  a  three  or  four  gallon  sized  stewpan. 
^hen  the  gravy  has  boiled  gently  for  three  or  four 
flours,  strain  it  off  carefully  for  use. 


No.  4.-GAME  STOCK. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  of  suitable  size  with 
slices  of  raw  ham  or  lean  bacon  ;  place  thereon  car- 
casses of  any  kind  of  game  you  may  happen  to  have  ; — 
I  say  carcasses  because  it  will  readily  be  understood 
that  to  use  any  kind  of  game  for  this  purpose  without 
leaving  previously  extracted  the  fillets  fur  entrees,  &c., 
^onld  bo  extravagant  indeed :  the  remains  of  roasted 
game  would  serve  in  this  case  equally  well.  Thus, 
having  placed  the  game  in  the  stewpan,  moisten  with 
a  quart  of  stock,  boil  it  down  sharply  over  a  good  fii-e 
Mil  reduced  to  glaze ;  fill  up  with  stuck  or  water ; 
gf^mish  with  carrots,  onions,  celery,  six  cloves  and  a 
little  salt ;  and,  after  being  well  skimmed,  and  allowed 
[o  boil  gently  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done,  strain 
^t  off  for  ase. 


B 


THB   cook's   QCTIDB,    AMD 


No.  5.— ECONOMICAL  STOCK. 

Garuish  the  bottom  of  a  large  stewpan  as  directed  i: 
No.  3,  and  then,  having  broken  np  any  bones  from  col< 
joints  or  otherwise,  place  them  in  the  stewpan  als€ 
and  proceed  in  all  other  respects  according  to  instruc 
tions  for  the  preparation  of  brown  gravy.  This  econo 
mical  stock  may  be  further  improved  by  clarifying  i 
with  one  pound  of  fresh  lean  beef  chopped  fine,  poiinde< 
and  mixed  with  a  quart  of  cold  water,  and  two  white 
of  eggs;  the  whole  to  be  stirred  into  the  broth,' car( 
being  taken  first  to  free  it  from  every  particle  of  grease 
and  after  allowing  this  stock  to  boil  for  half  an  hour  be 
side  the  fire,  it  may  be  strained  through  a  cloth  or  nap 
kin  for  use. 

No.  6.— HOW  TO  CLARIFY  STOCKS  OB  BROTHS. 

When  from  some  cause  or  other  your  stocks  ar< 
not  bright  and  clear,  as  they  should  be  if  properlj 
attended  to  in  boiling  down  to  a  glaze,  or  elw 
through  insufficient  skimming,  the  evil  so  produced  maj 
be  remedied  thus  : — Chop  a  pound  of  lean  beef  or  veal 
and  then  pound  it  to  a  very  fine  smooth  pulp  with  three 
whites  of  eggs  in  a  mortar ;  to  this  add  a  quart  of  cold 
water:  mix  the  whole  in  the  stewpan  of  broth  to  be 
clarified,  due  care  having  been  previously  taken  to  re- 
move every  particle  of  grease  :  let  the  mixture  now  be 
stirred  over  a  brisk  fire  until  it  boils,  then  to  be  remove^] 
to  the  side,  there  to  continue  gently  boiling  for  half  an 
hour;  when,  if  perfectly  bright,  it  must  be  strained 
through  a  cloth  or  napkin  into  an  earthen  pan. 

It  happens  sometimes,  that  from  either  the  stock 
l>eing  very  thick  and  dull,  or  more  frequently  through 
want  of  proper  attention  to  the  foregoing  intjtructions, 
the  first  clarification  proves  insufficient  to  clear  the  stock 
in  a  satisfactory  manner.  This  fiiult  will  be  rectified 
1»V  the  addition  of  two  more  whit.es  of  eggs  well  whipped 


housbkbkpxb's  and  butlbb's  assistant.  5 

in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  which  being  well  mixed  in  the 
stock,  axtd  allowed  to  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer, 
will  then  become  bright  enough. 

No.  7.— ASPIC  JELLY. 

Break  up  about  ten  pounds  of  knuckles  of  veal,  and 
place  them  in  a  slock-pot  together  with  four  calfs  feet, 
and  an  old  hen ;  fill  up  with  about  four  gallons  of  water, 
and  having  set  it  to  boil  on  the  fire,  let  it  be  thoroughly 
skimmed,  and  then  garnished  with  four  carrots,  two 
heads  of  celery,  four  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley  tied  up 
with  two  bay-leaves,  some  thyme  and  a  little  marjoram ; 
season  with  two  ounces  of  salt,  eight  cloves,  and  twenty  . 
peppercorns ;  and,  after  the  stock  has  boiled  very  gently 
[orahont  five  hours,  without  having  sensibly  diminished 
in  quantity,  proceed  to  strain  it  off  into  pans  to  cool  in 
the  larder  for  the  next  day's  process ;  viz.  that  of  clari- 
fication. 

In  order  to  accomplish  this  very  essential  operation 
with  any  chance  of  success,  it  is  of  the  last  importance 
to  pay  strict  attention  to  the  removal  of  every  particle 
of  grease  from  the  surface  of  the  pans  containing  tho 
sspic  stock.  This  is  to  be  done  by  first  scraping  off  all 
tjie  fatty  substance  with  a  spoon,  and  then  pouring  a 
little  hot  water  over  the  stock,  which  should  bo  iuime- 
,  diately  drained  off,  and  the  surface  dabbed  over  with  a 
clean  napkin,  so  as  to  absorb  any  remaining  grease. 
This  done,  the  aspic  stock  should  bo  placed  in  a 
proper-sized  stewpan,  and  set  on  the  fire  to  dissolve ; 
^lien,  after  having  lightly  drawn  some  pieces  of  paper 
over  its  surface  in  order  to  remove  any  remaining  stray 
grease,  you  must  now  mix  in  six  whole  eggs,  previously 
'^liipped  together  with  a  pint  of  water,  half  a  pint  of 
common  French  white  wine,  and  a  wineglassful  of 
tarragon  vinegar ;  this  done,  place  the  stock  upon  the 
fire,  and  continue  whipping  it  with  a  wire  whisk  until 
it  begins  to  boil ;  remove  it  to  the  side  of  the  tire,  there 
fo  continue  gently  simmering  with  the  stewpan  lid  on^ 


{f  THE  cook's   GUTDR,   AKI> 

for  about  lialf  an  hour :  it  must  then  be  passed  through 
a  jelly-bs^ ;  or,  if  very  clear  and  bright,  it  may  be  passed 
through  a  napkin,  and  poured  into  deep  sautapans  placed 
upon  ice,  ready  for  use,  as  will  be  directed  hereafter. 

No.  8.— ECONOMICAL  ASPIC  JELLY. 

Put  a  quart  of  good  stock  broth  in  a  stewpan ;  add 
six  shalots,  two  bay -leaves,  a  good  sprig  of  thjTne,  six 
cloves,  a  bit  of  mace,  and  four  ounces  of  gelatine  :  place 
this  upon  the  fire,  and  continue  stirring  it  until  the 
gelatine  becomes  thoroughly  dissolved  :  it  muht  then  be 
removed  from  the  fire  to  cool.  Next,  whip  three  whites 
of  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  tarragon  vinegar,  and  having  well  mixed  this  in 
the  aspic,  stir  it  over  the  fire  imtil  it  boils ;  and  then, 
after  allowing  it  to  boil  for  ten  minutes  longer,  pass  it 
either  through  a  jelly-bag  or  a  napkin  :  it  will  then  be 
lit  for  use. 

No.  D.-BROWX  TIIICIvENING  FOE  SAUCES. 

Put  a  pound  of  butter  iuto  a  stewpan  upon  a  slow 
fire  to  dissolve  and  throw  up  the  milk  it  contains  in 
the  form  of  skum ;  remove  this  with  a  spoon,  and  then 
pour  off  the  pure  oiled  butter  into  another  clean  stew- 
pan ;  add  to  this  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  and,  after  having 
well  mixed  both  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  continue 
stirring  the  thickening  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  an 
hour,  for  the  purpo.se  of  baking  it  of  a  very  light  brown 
or  fawn  colour ;  it  must  then  be  poured  into  an  earthem 
pan  to  be  kept  ready  for  use. 

No.  lO.-AVIIITE  THICKENING  FOR  SAUOEa 

For  this  preparation  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  fol- 
low the  directions  set  forth  in  No.  9,  with  this  excep- 
tion, that  the  thickening  must  not  be  allowed  to  become 
at  all  coloured  ;  and  in  order  to  prevent  this  accident,  it 
will  be  essential  to  remember  that  it  must  be  baked  over 
fi  very  slow  fire. 


HOUSEKEEFEB's  and   BUTLEfiS  ABSISTAinr. 


No.  11.— EXTEACT  OF  GAME  FOR  GRAVY. 

Chop  up  any  remains  of  game  or  bones  thereof,  and 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  bntter,  four  shalots 
chopped,  a  bay-leaf  and  a  sprig  of  thyme,  three  cloves,  and 
a  few  peppercorns ;  fry  these  over  the  fire  until  they 
become  browned ;  then  add  a  pint  of  stock  or  water ; 
boil  this  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  strain  it  through 
a  sieve  for  use,  as  occasion  requires. 

No.  12.--BR0WN  SAUCE. 

Put  about  a  gallon  of  stock,  No.  1 ,  or  brown  gravy, 
No.  3,  into  a  stewpan  on  the  fire ;  and  when  it  is  warm, 
stir  into  this  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  thicken- 
ing, No.  9.  Continue  stirring  the  sauce  on  the  fire  until  it 
begins  to  boil,  and  then  remove  it  to  the  side,  there  to  re- 
main very  gently  simmering  for  an  hour,  with  the  lid  on 
the  stewpan  ;  by  that  time  all  the  butter  of  which  the 
thickening  is  composed  will  have  risen  to  the  surface  ; 
this,  together  with  the  skum,  must  be  removed ;  and 
after  allowing  the  sauce  to  boil  very  gently  by  the  side 
of  the  stove  for  another  quarter  of  an  hour,  continuously 
removing  the  skum  as  it  rises,  strain  the  sauce  into  a 
basin  for  use,  as  will  be  hereafter  directed. 

No.  13.— WHITE  SAUCE. 

This  sauce  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  brown 
i^auce,  No.  12,  excepting  that,  white  veal  stock.  No.  2, 
and  white  thickening.  No.  10,  must  be  used  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

No.  14.— ECONOMY  OF  SECOND  STOCKS  OR  BROTHS. 

^Vhenever  any  kind  of  soup  or  sauce-stock  has  been 
strained  off,  it  is  an  important  part  of  good  management 
that  the  stock-pot  or  stewpan  should  be  filled  up  a  second 
time,  with  the  addition  of  half  the  original  quantity  of 
vegetables  and  seasoning ;  and  allowed  to  boil  very  gently 
for  about  six  hours,  and  then  strained  off;  and,  after  being 
freed  from  grease,  boiled  down  to  glaze  over  a  brisk  fire. 


8  Tsm  cook's  quwe,  ahd 

The  proper  manner  for  finishing  the  latter  part  of  this 
operation  is  ix)  remove  the  glaze  from  the  large  stew- 
pan  when  the  broth  is  reduced  to  a  sixth  jpart  of  its 
original  quantity,  and  then  to  be  farther  rednoed  by 
gently  boiling  on  the  comer  of  the  stove  until  it  pre- 
sents the  appearance  of  thin  treacle  ;  during  the  opera- 
tion of  boiling  down,  the  stock  must  be  frequently 
skimmed  to  remove  all  impurities  as  they  naturally  rise 
to  the  surface.  \\  hen  the  glaze  has  attained  its  proper 
consistency,  let  it  be  strained  into  a  pan  and  kept  in  a 
cool  place  for  use,  as  will  be  hereafter  indicated. 

Note, — Glaze  is  also  made  with  beef,  veal,  old  hens, 
or  any  kinds  of  game-stocks  prepared  for  that  purpose ; 
and  it  is  easily  understood  that  the  cost  would  be  com- 
pensated by  the  greater  degree  of  perfection ;  yet  as  ex- 
rnse  is  to  be  avoided-7-on  ordinary  occasions  at  least — 
have  preferred  giving  the  details  for  the  preparation 
of  the  most  economical  sort  of  glaze. 

No.  15-— WHITE  BECHAMEL  KAUOE. 

Put  four  ounces  of  flour  into  a  stewpan  with  two 
ounces  of  fresh  butter ;  knead  these  together  smoothly  by 
working  them  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  next  add.  an  onion^ 
a  small  carrot,  half  a  head  of  celery,  some  parsley,  a  bay- 
leaf,  and  thyme  (the  vegetables  cut  thin),  a  little  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt;  moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
milk,  stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire  wlule  it  boils  sharply 
for  twenty  minutes;  then  strain  it  through  a  tanmiy 
cloth  or  pointed  strainer  into  a  basin — ^afterwards 
to  be  immediately  removed  into  a  convenient  sized 
covered  stewpan  or  bainmarie,  for  use. 

Note. — Allow  me  here  to  impress  upon  your  minds 
how  all-important  it  is  that  whenever  you  are  stirring 
a  sauce  upon  the  fire,  you  must  bear  with  some 
strength  and  a  little  tact  on  the  edge  of  the  bowl 
of  the  wooden  spoon,  so  as  to  prevent  the  sauce  from 
burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan  while  it  is  being 
reduced ;  for  rest  assured  that  whenever  through  x^gli* 


houbkksbpkb's  and  butlsb's  assistant.  9 

gence  this  oconrs,  the  sauce  is  spoilt.  These  remarks 
apply  more  especially  to  such  sauces  as  contain  milk  or 
cream. 

No.  16.— CREAM  BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Put  a  pint  of  white  sauce,  Ko.  13,  into  a  stewpan, 
with  a  few  sliced  mushrooms  or  some  mushroom  juice, 
reduce  this  by  stirring  it  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes, 
tlien  add  half  a  pint  of  cream ;  and,  as  soon  as  the  sauce 
oomes  to  a  boil,  strain  it  into  a  basin  or  stewpan  for  uf;e. 

No.  17.— ALLEltfANDB  SAUCE. 

Proceed  as  directed  in  No.  16,  and  when  the  sauce  is 
reduced,  remove  it  from  the  fijre  for  a  few  minutes  in 
wider  to  lessen  the  heat,  and  then  stir  into  it  aleason*  of 
four  yolks  of  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  pounded  sugar,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  now  stir  the  sauce  quickly 
oyer  the  fire  again  for  five  minutes,  in  order  to  set  the 
leason,  and  then  strain  it  off  for  use. 

No.  18.— ECONOMICAL 'WHITE  SAUCE. 

Mix  well  in  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  floar,  one 
omice  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  to 
these  add  a  pint  of  milk  ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  ten 
Diiuutes,  and  sti-ain  off  for  use. 

No.  19.— POIVRADE  SAUCE. 

Cut  up  into  Tery  small  square  pieces  an  ounce  of  lean 
ham  or  bacon,  the  same  quantities  of  carrot,  celery,  and 
onion,  a  bay-leaf  and  thyme,  twenty  peppercorns,  and  a 
bit  of  mace  ;  fry  these  ingredients  iu  a  small  stewpan, 
^th  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  until  the 
whole  becomes  well  browned ;  add  a  wineglass  of 
vinegar  and  half  that  quantity  of  mushroom  catsup,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy;    and  when  this   has  boiled 

*  From  the  French  liaison,  used  here  to  mean  a  thickening  or 
binding. 


10  THX  cook's  guids,  vsd 

down  to  half  its  original  quantity,  then  add  aboi 

a  pint  of  brown  sance,  a  few  spoonfnls  of  good 

and  a  wineglassf ul  of  sherry ;  let  the  sance  boil 

by  the  bide  of  the  fire,  to  throw  np  the  greas 

which  having  been  removed,  strain  through  a  si 

sti^iiner  into  a  small  slewpan  for  use. 

Note, — It  frequently  happens  in  small  househoh 

ready-made   brown  sauce   is  not  to  be  had:  ii 

cases,  and  in  order  to  save  time  and  expense,  a 

thickening  can  be  easily  made  by  using  for  tha 

pose  equal    proportions   of  butter  and   flour   ki 

together,  and  stirred  quickly  over  a  slow  fire  foi 

minutes,  and  moistened  with  good  stock,  or  any  1 

broth. 

No.  20.— GENOESE  SAUCE 

Is  made  by  adding  to  a  pint  of  brown  sance  i 
of  red  wine,  a  table»poonful  of  mushroom  catsup, 
spoonful  of  anchovy,  a  lump  of  sugar,  a  little  n 
and  some  chopped  parsley ;  boil  well  together  i 
minutes,  and  then  work  in  a  pat  of  butter. 

Note. — This  sauce  is  used  for  dressed  fish. 

No.  21.— TOMATA  SAUCE. 

Beady  preserved  pulp  of  this  powerfully  anti-sec 
vegetable  is  always  to  be  had  at  Crosse  and  Blacl 
warehouse,  Soho-square.  Put  into  a  small  stewj 
sliced  shalots,  a  bay -leaf  and  thyme,  and  a  wineg 
innegar;  boil  these  gently  for  five  minutes,  th( 
about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tomata  pulp,  an  ou 
glaze,  No.  14,  a  tea.spoonful  of  anchovy,  and  a  lu 
sugar ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  whole  has  boi 
^ve  minutes,  then  pass  it  with  pressure  thrc 
I)ointed  tin  strainer  into  a  small  stewpan  for  use. 

No.  22.-PIQUANT  SAUCE. 

First  prepare  of  gherkins,  capers,  and  shah 
chopped  as  fine  as  dust,  a  tablespoonful  of  each ; 
these  in  a  small  stewpan  with  a  little   pepper 


housekeeper's  ani>  butler's  assistant.  11 

A'ineglassful  of  vinegar  ;  set  t^is  to  boil  for  about  four 
minutes,  then  add  mther  better  than  half  a  pint  of  good 
stock,  an  ounce  of  brown  thickening.  No.  9,  a  small  bit 
of  glaze  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  ;  boil,  skim,  and 
pour  into  a  small  stewpan  for  use. 

No.  23.- ITALIAN  SAUCE. 

Place  in  a  small  stewpan  a  dessert-spoonful  of  veiy 

finely  chopped  shalots,  an  equal  quantity  of  salad-oil,  a 

bay-leaf  and  thyme ;  and  stir  this  over  the  fire  in  order 

to  fry  the  shalot  without  allowing  it  to  acquire  any 

colour  whatever,  as,  in  that  case,  the  shalot  would  become 

bitter  and  spoil  the  sauce.     V\  hen  the  shalot  is  fried  in 

a  satisfactory  manner,  add  thereto  a  good  tablespoonful 

of  chopped  mushrooms,  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  glass   of 

mushroom  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy,  half  a  pint 

of  stock,  and  an  ounce  of  thickening,  No.  9  ;  stir  over  the 

fire  until  the  sauce  boils,  and  then  allow  it  to  throw  up 

by  the  side  for  ten  minutes ;  skim  it,  and  pour  it  into  a 

stewpan  for  use. 

No.  24.—FINANCIERE  SAUCE. 

Pnt  a  pint  of  good  stock  into  a  stewpan  with  an 
ounco  and  a  half  of  thickening,  No.  9  ;  stir  over  the  fire 
wntil  it  boils,  and  then  add  a  glass  of  madeira  or  sherry, 
a  glass  of  mushroum  catsup,  and  a  small  pinch  of 
cayenne ;  allow  the  sauce  to  remain  gently  boiling  by 
^e  side  of  the  fire  to  clear  itself,  for  about  a  qnai-ter  of 
^^  hour ;  remove  the  skum,  boil  it  down  for  five 
^mutes  longer,  and  then  add  a  small  piece  of  glaze,  and 
^'hen  this  is  dissulved,  strain  the  sauce  into  a  small 
"tewpaii  for  use. 

No.  25.— BllOWN  CAPER  SAUCE. 

l^it  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan  with  one 
^unce  of  flour,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  knead 
^'iese  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  rather 
^^  than  half  a  pint  of  slock,  or  water,  a  teaspoonful  of 


12  THE  OOOS'8  aUIDB,   AND 

anchovy,  a  tablespoonful  of  Harvey,  a  little  browning, 
and  a  good  tablespoonful  of  capers ;  stir  the  sauce  over 
the  fire  until  it  begins  to  boil,  then  add  about  one 
ounce  of  butter,  mix  well  to  ms^e  it  smooth,  and  the 
sauce  will  be  ready  to  serve  with  fried  or  broiled  fish. 

No.  26.— WHITE  OAJ?EB  SAUCE. 

Four  ounces  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  flour ; 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  well  kneaded  together  in  a 
small  stewpan;  then  add  a  small  piece  of  glaze  and 
nearly  half  a  pint  of  water ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the 
sauce  begins  to  boil,  then  mix  in  a  bit  more  fresh  butter 
to  smooth  it;  add  the  capers,  and  serve  with  boiled 
mutton. 

No.  27.— SHAEP  SAUCR 

Four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of 
flour ;  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  eight  gherkins  and  a  few 
capers  chopped  fine,  a  little  browning  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Harvey;  knead  well  together  in  a  small 
stewpan,  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  sauce  begins  to  boil,  and  then,  after  mixing  in 
a  bit  of  glaze  the  size  of  a  walnut,  serve  with  boileJ 
beef,  or  boiled  mutton. 

No.  28.— REFORM  SAUCE. 

Prepare  some  poivrade  sauce,  No.  19 ;  to  this  add  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  half  that  quantity  of  Hai-vey,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  anchovy,  and  two  good  tablespoonfuls  of  red 
currant  jelly ;  boil  together  for  five  minutes,  and  pour 
into  a  clean  small  stewpan  for  use. 

No.  29.— CHEVREUIL  SAUCE. 

The  same  as  the  foregoing,  excepting  that  French 
red  wine  should  be  used'  instead  of  port,  and  also  that 
eight  small  gherkins,  sliced  as  thin  as  wafers,  be  added 
to  the  sauce. 


HOVSEKEBPXB'B  and  BtrrUEB'S  ASSISTAKT.  18 

No.  30.~BBAWN  SAUCE.  COLD. 

Mix  in  a  basin  a  gill  of  salad-oil,  half  a  gill  of  vinegar, 
two  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  an 
orange  shred  very  fine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mustard. 

No.  31.— GERMAN  SAUCE  FOB  BOAB'S  HEAD. 

Mix  in  a  basin  a  gill  of  salad-oil,  a  wineglassful  of 
vinegar,  half  a  pound  of  bruised  red  currant  jelly,  two 
ounces  of  pounded  white  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  oranges, 
and  the  rind  of  one  shred  very  fine,  a  large  stick  of 
horse-radish  grated,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  French 
mustard.  This  sauce  must  be  served  cold ;  it  is  equally 
good  with  brawn. 

No.  32.~BIAITEB  D'HOTEL  SAUCR 

Take  about  a  gill  of  bechamel  sauce,  No.  16,  in  a 
small  stewpan,  make  it  hot,  stir  in  two  ounces  of  fresh 
batter,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  blanched  parsley,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

No.  33.— ECONOMICAL  MAITRE  D'HOTEL  SAUCE. 

Knead  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  with  one  ounce  of 
flour;  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  chopped  parsley,  and 
half  a  lemon  juice  ;  place  this  mixture  in  a  smjill  stew- 
pan,  with  either  a  gill  of  milk  or  cream ;  stir  over  the  firo 
until  it  is  near  coming  to  a  boil ;  add  a  bit  more  butter 
to  smooth  it,  and  serve. 

No.  34.— RAVIGOTTE  SAUCE. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  first  instance  exactly  in  the 
^:lme  manner  as  the  two  foregoing  maitre  d'hotol  sauces ; 
the  diiference  being  that  a  tablespoonful  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  ditto  of  chili  vinegar,  ditto  of  Harvey,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  anchovy  (being  first  boiled  in  a  separate 
small  stewpan  for  five  minutes)  must  be  stirred  into 


14  THB  OOOlCfl  GUIDB,   AND 

No.  35.— ROBERT  SAUCE. 

Chop  two  onions  very  fine,  and  fiy  them  with  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  lai^e  walnut,  in  a  small  stewpao, 
until  they  assume  a  light-brown  colour;  then  add  a 
wineglassful  of  vinegar  and  a  good  pinch  of  pepper,  and 
boil  these  together  for  four  minutes ;  next  add  a  good 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  or  an  ounce  of  thickening.  No.  9, 
and  half  a  pint  of  stock  or  water,  and  a  bit  of  glaze ;  stir 
the  sauce  over  the  fire  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  French  mustard,  one  of  Harvey,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  anchovy ;  mix  well  together  over  the  fire, 
and  sei-ve  quite  hot. 

No.  36.— POULETTE  SAUCE. 

Put  a  gill  of  white  sauce,  No.  13,  into  a  stewpan ;  add 
thereto  a  leason  of  three  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  little  cream, 
pepper  and  salt,  half  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  the  leason  is  set;  then  add  some 
chopped  pai-sley  and  a  few  turned  mushrooms,  and  serve 
as  directed. 

No.  37.~MAYONAISE  SAUCE. 

Take  a  roimd -bottomed  basiu,  place  therein  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  with  a 
wooden  spoon  proceed  to  work  therein  by  turning  the 
spoon  round  quickly,  about  half  a  pint  of  salad-oil  and 
half  a  gill  of  tarragon  vinegar;  these  must  be  incor- 
pbmted  by  degrees ;  and  in  order  to  produce  the  sauce 
in  perfection,  it  must  present  the  appearance  of  a  firm 
creamy  substance.  This  cold  sauce  is  especially  adapted 
for  chicken  and  lobster  salads. 

No.  38.— TARTAR  SAUCE. 

Prepare  some  mayonaise,  No.  37,  and  mix  therewith  a 
tablespoonful  of  French  mustard,  a  little  chopped  spring- 
onions,  and  some  chopped  taiTagon  and  chei*vil ;  and  a 
t^jaspoonful  of  anchovy. 


HOITSEEEEPBB'S  and    BUTLSB'B  ABSlBTAJSrr.  15 


No.  39.-MELTED  BUTTER,  OB  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Knead  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  with  one  ounco  ol 
fioir  in  a  small  stewpan ;  add  a  gill  of  water ;  season 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
tie  sauce  thickens,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil ;  finish  by 
working  into  it  a  bit  more  butter,  and  serve. 

No.  40.— LOBSTER  SAUtJE. 

Split  a  lobster,  remove  the  pith,  coral,  and  spawn  tf 
be  ponnded  with  an  equal  proportion  of  butter  in  a 
mortar,  and  afterwards  rubbed  through  a  hair-sieve  on 
a  plate ;  break  the  shell,  and  having  removed  all  the 
meat,  cut  it  info  large  or  small  square  pieces,  according 
to  fency.  Next,  prepare  some  melted  butter.  No.  39,  to 
this  add  the  spawn  and  the  lobster,  season  with  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,,  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  41.— SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

Prepare  butter  sauce,  No.  39  ;  to  this  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  anchovy,  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  little  lemon 
juice,  and  a  bit  of  lobster  butter  to  colour  and  flavour 
it ;  lastly,  throw  in  the  picked  bhrimps,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  42.— MUSCLE  SAUCE. 

Put  a  quart  of  washed  muscles  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
gill  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  over  all  spread  a 
wet  cloth  or  napkin,  and  having  placed  the  lid  on,  set 
the  muscles  upon  a  brisk  fire  to  scald ;  this  will  be  efiected 
in  a  few  minutes,  and  may  be  ascertained  by  the  sepa- 
ration of  the  shells — showing  the  plump  white  muscles  ; 
these  should  be  instantly  taken  off  the  fire,  their  liquor 
strained  into  a  basin,  and  the  muscles  removed  from 
their  shells  upon  a  plate.  Next,  put  some  allemande. 
No.  17,  into  a  stewpan  ;  add  a  little   anchovy,  lemon 


16  TBX  cook's  GUWm,  AKB 

joice,  cavenne,  and  the  liquor  boiled  down  to  the  Talne 
of  a  tablespoonfnl :  throw  in  the  muscles,  stir  gentlj 
together,  and  serve  hot. 

Note, — ^When  inconvenient  to  prepare  alleiiiande^ 
melted  butter  may  be  Bnbstitnted ;  in  this  case,  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  little  cream,  and  nutmeg,  should  be 
added. 

No.  4a— WHITE  0T5TEB  SAUCE. 

First,  scald  %nd  beard  the  oysters,  and  save  thnr 
liquor;  next>  knead  two  oxmces  of  hotter  with  one 
ounce  of  flour  in  a  stewpan ;  add  die  liquor,  a  gill  of 
cream  or  milk,  a  little  nutmeg,  cayenne,  anchory,  mod 
lemon  juice ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sauce  boils, 
then  add  the  oysters,  and  serve  hot. 

Xo.  44.--BBOWX  OTSTEB  SAUCK 

Prepare  the  oysters  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  boil 
down  their  liquor,  add  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce. 
Xo.  12 ;  season  with  a  little  anchovy,  cayenne,  and  lenH»- 
juice ,  add  the  oysters ;  boil  together  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve  hot. 

3o6f. — ^Vhen  no  brown  sauce  is  readv,  use  melted 
butter  instead,  adding  a  little  browning,  No,  76. 

No.  45l— EGG  SAUCE. 

Boil  two  or  more  eggs  hard,  which  will  require  six 
minutes:  remove  the  shells,  cut  each  egg  into  ei^t 
pieces,  and  put  these  into  some  well-made  melted  butter, 
No.  3i\ 

Xa.46.— POET-WINE  SAUCE  FOR  WILD  FOWL. 

To  a  glass  of  port  wine  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
three  shalots  sliced,  a  p'nch  of  cayenne,  a  tablespoonfnl 
of  Harvey ;  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  strain  into  a 
boat 


uousskbirbr's  amp  butlxb'ii  assistant.  17 


No.  47.— VENISON  SAUOE. 

Two  tablespoonfnls  of  port  wine,  a  small  stick  of 
chmaTnon  bruised,  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  half  a  ponnl 
of  red-cnrrant  jelly ;  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  strain 
into  a  sauceboat. 

No.  48.— PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

Chop  fine  and  parboil  for  three  minutes  a  handful  of 
parsley,  drain  free  from  water,  and  add  this  to  some 
melted  butter  or  any  other  white  sauce :  work  in  a  pat 
of  butter  to  smooth  the  sauce,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  49.— ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

To  some  melted  butter  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
anchovy,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  lemon-juice. 

No.  50.— APPLE  SAUCE. 

Peal,  core,  and  slice  up  six  apples,  and  put  them  into 
a  small  stewpan  with  one  ounce  of  sugar  and  the  rind 
of  half  a  lemon ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  gill  of 
water  ;  stew  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  apples  are  dis- 
solved, then  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  51.— GREEN  GOOSEBERRY  SAUCE. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  green  goosebendes,  drain  off  the 
water ;  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve ;  put  this  pulp  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  wineglassful  of  green  raw  sorrel  or 
apinach  juice ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  pinch  of 
sugar,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt ;  make  hot,  and  serve 
with  boiled  or  grilled  mackerel. 

No.  52.— FENNEL  SAUCC. 

This  is  prepared  in  same  manner  as  parsley  sauce,  by 
»*ang  fennel  instead  of  parsley,  see  No.  48. 

0 


18  TUK  cook's  quidb,  ami> 

Ko.  53.— MUSTABD  SAUCK 

Add  to  some  melted  butter  a  teaspoonfol  of  Frescli 
or  English  mustard,  a  dessert-spoonfal  of  chilli  vinegar, 
and  a  little  anchovy ;  make  hot,  and  serve  with  broiled 
or  fried  herrings.    The  so£b  roes  may  be  added. 

No.  54.— BEOWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Put  fonr  onnces  of  fresh  bntter  into  a  stewpan  on  the 
fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  nntil  it  becomes  browned  by 
frying;  then  add  a  small  wineglassfril  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  ditto  of  Harvey,  a  tablespoonfril  of  chopped 
capers,  a  lit^e  anchovy,  and  either  a  gill  of  brown  sauce 
or  gravy ;  boil  this  together  for  five  minntes,  and  serve 
over  boiled  skate  or  grilled  macKcrel. 

No.  55.— ONION  SAUCE. 

Feel,  slice,  and  boil  six  large  onions  for  ten  minutes ; 
drain  them  free  from  water,  and  pnt  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  two  onnces  of  flonr  and  two  oiuices  of  bntter; 
mix  these  well,  and  then  add  a  pint  of  milk ;  season 
with  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  tan 
minutes ;  add  a  Httle  cream,  and  serve  hot  over  boiled 
rabbits,  or  with  roast  mutton,  &c. 

No.  56.— BEETONNE  SAUCE. 

Chop  fine  two  large  onions,  fry  them  in  a  stewpui 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  of  a  lightrbrown  colour ;  then  add 
one  ounce  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of  stock,  or  water,  a  spoon- 
ful of  brown  colouring,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  over  the 
fire  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  hot,  as  will  be  hereaftei 
indicated. 

No.  57.— GBEEN  RAVIGOTTE  SAUCE. 

Procure  green  tarragon,  chervil,  chives,  and  pareley, 
in  equal  quantities  ;  parboil  these  in  water  with  a  little 
salt  until  tender ;  then  drain  off  all  the  water,  squeeae 
them  in  a  cloth,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  w^th  two 


HOUSEKBEPEB'8  AND   BUTLSB'S  ASSISTANT.  10 

ounoes  of  fresh  butter ;  and  having  rubbed  this  through 
a  hair  sieve,  proceed  to  incorporate  it  into  some  well- 
made  Bechamel  sauce,  No.  16,  or  some  melted  butter : 
just  before  using  this  sauce,  add  a  very  little  tarragon 
vinegar  and  anchovy. 

• 

No.  58.— SOUBISE  SAUOE. 

Feel  and  slice  thin  eight  large  onions ;  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  place  the  lid  on,  and  set  this  to  stew 
very  slowly  over  a  slack  fire,  tmtil  the  onions  are  nearly 
dissolved:  they  must  not  be  allowed  to  acquire  any 
colour.  Next,  add  four  ounces  of  flour,  two  fresh-boiled 
mealy  potatoes,  and  a  pint  of  milk,  or  good  stock  (in  the 
latter  case  haK-a-pint  of  cream  must  be  added);  stir 
over  the  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  rub 
through  a  tammy  or  hair  sieve ;  keep  hot  in  a  covero*' 
stewpan  until  used  according  to  directions. 

No.  59.— NEAPOLITAN  SAUCE. 

Put  the  following  ingredients  into  a  small  stewpan, 
viz.,— a  grated  stick  of  horse-i'adish,  four  shalots,  a  bay- 
leaf  and  thyme,  three  cloves,  a  bit  of  mace,  twenty 
peppercorns,  one  ounce  of  lean  ham  shaved  thin,  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  ditto  of  Harvey,  four  ounces  of  red- 
c^urant  jelly,  a  little  stock,  and  half  a  pint  of  brown 
sauce ;  boil  these  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  add 
a  bit  of  glaze,  strain  into  a  small  stew-pan,  and  serve 
the  sauce  according  to  directions. 

No.  60.— BOUEGUIGNOTTE  SAUCE. 

l^ut  into  a  small  stewpan  twenty-four  fried  button 
onions,  twelve  mushrooms,  twelve  small  truffles  ;  add  a 
S^  of  red  vnne  and  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  ;  boil 
together  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  according  to  direo 
tions. 

0  2 


20  THS  OOOK'8  QUIDS.   AHS> 


No.  61.— POOB-MAN'S  SAUCE. 

Chop  an  onion  fine,  and  fry  it  with  a  bit  of  butter  o; 
dripping,  in  a  small  stewpan ;  then  add  a  wineglassful 
of  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little  stock  or  water ; 
boil  these  together  for  five  minutes.  The  addition  of 
mushroom  catsup  or  Harvey  would  be  an  improvement 


No.  62.— CABDINAL  SAUCK 

Put  a  gill  of  any  good  white  sauce  into  a  smaU  stew- 
pan,  add  a  lump  of  lobster-spawn  butter,  Ko.  35,  a  little 
anchovy,  and  chilli  vinegar. 

No.  63.— BICHELIEU  SAUCE. 

Peel,  slice,  and  fry  four  onions,  add  a  few  roast  game 
bones  chopped  fine,  and  an  ounce  of  fiour ;  mix  well  to- 
gether, moisten  with  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  half  a  pint  of 
good  stock,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  glaze  ; 
stir  over  the  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  rub 
through  a  tammy  or  hair  sieve,  and  keep  hot  in  a 
small  stewpan  for  use. 

No.  64.— SHALOT  GRAVY. 

Peel  and  slice  six  shalots,  and  put  them  in  a  small 
stewpan  with  a  wineglassful  of  vinegar,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  boil  this  for  six  minutes ;  then  add  a  gill  of 
brown  gravy,  and  boil  again  for  other  six  minutes; 
strain  through  a  sieve,  and  use  this  gravy  for  broiled 
outlets  and  other  broiled  meats. 


No.  65.— TRUFFLE  SAUCE. 

Slice  four  truffles  and  put  them  into  a  small  stewpan 
with  a  glass  of  sherry  and  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauoe, 
No.  12,  and  then  boil  the  sauce  for  ten  minutes. 


oousjeeekpbb's  and  bdtlbu's  assistant.  2) 


No.  66.— MUSHROOM  SAUCK 

Put  a  dozsen  button  mushrooms  into  a  small  stewpan 
with  a  glass  of  mushroom  catsup  and  half-a-pint  of 
brown  sauce,  No  12;  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

l^o.  67.— PERIGUEUX  SAUCE. 

Chop  four  truffles  very  fine,  put  them  into  a  small 
stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce,  a  glass  of 
madeira,  and  as  much  garlic  as  will  rest  on  the  point 
of  a  knife ;  boil  for  ten  minutes ;  add  a  piece  of  glaze 
and  a  pat  of  anchovy  butter,  or  a  little  essence. 

No.  68.— SALMIS  SAUCE. 

Chop  up  small  some  trimmings  of   the  roast  game 

intended  for  the  salmis,  and  put  these  into  a  small 

stewpan  with  a  bay-leaf  and  thyme,  and  a  tablespoon- 

M  of  salad-oil ;  fry  the  whole  of  a  light-brown  colour, 

and  then  add  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  half  a  pint  of 

brown  sauce  ;  boil  gently  on  the  comer  of  the  stove  for 

ten  minutes ;  remove  the  grease  and  scum,  and  strain 

into  a  small  stewpan  for  use. 

No.  69.— PEOVENOALE  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  small  stew-pan  the  following  ingredients  : 
^z.,— a  spoonful  of  chopped  capers,  ditto  of  chopped 
i^w  mnshrooms,  ditto  of  chopped  shalots,  ditto  of  salad- 
oil,  a  clove  of  garlic,  three  cloves,  a  bit  of,  mace,  a  bay- 
leaf  and  thyme,  and  twenty  peppercorns ;  fry  this  over 
tie  fire  for  five  minutes,  stirring  it  the  whok  time ;  then 
add  four  ripe  tomatas,  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  a  piece  of 
glaze  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  stir  again  on  the  fire  until 
tlie  tomatas  are  quite  dissolved,  and  after  having  rubbed 
tlie  sauce  through  a  tammy  or  sieve,  pour  it  into  a  stew- 
pan to  be  made  hot  for  use.    Add  a  piece  of  glaze. 


22  THE  oook'b  aums,  aud 


No.  70.— BREAD  SAUC3E. 

Make  about  two  ounces  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  piit 
them  into  a  small  stewpan  with  a  shalot,  pepper,  and 
salt,  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  small  pat  of 
butter ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  to  boil  for  five  minntes ; 
remove  the  shalot,  and  serve  hot  in  a  sauceboat 

No.  71.— FREED  BREAD  CRUMBS. 

Put — say  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  into  a  santapan 
or  a  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  and  stir 
them  over  ihe  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  they 
assume  a  light-brown  colour;  then  throw  them  on  a 
sheet  of  paper  to  absorb  the  grease,  and  keep  them  in 
reserve  to  be  served  as  directed. 

No.  72.— SPINACH  GREENING. 

Wash  thoroughly  half  a  peck  of  spinach,  and  put  it 
dripping  wet  into  a  mortar ;  pound  it  into  a  pulp,  and 
then  place  the  pulp  and  juice  in  a  strong  cloth ;  twist 
the  sides  thereof  tightly  over,  and  then  let  two  persons 
take  a  hold  of  each  end  and  wring  the  juice  out  from  the 
pulp  in  the  same  manner  as  you  would  wring  out  a 
sheet  or  any  large  cloth  after  washing  it :  a  dish  must 
be  placed  under  the  cloth  to  receive  the  juice  as  it  is 
wrung  out.  Next,  pour  the  extract  or  spinach-jnioe 
into  a  small  stewpan  and  set  it  over  the  fire ;  and,  as 
soon  as  it  curdles,  scrape  it  out  with  a  spoon  upon  a 
sieve  in  order  to  separate  the  water  from  the  finished 
pulp;  and  a  few  minutes  after  it  has  drained,  place  it 
in  a  covered  basin  in  a  very  cool  place,  to  be  used  ai 
hereafter  indicated. 

No.  73.— INDIAN  SAUCE. 

For  half  a  pint  of  Tomata  sauce,  No  21,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  diluted  and  strained  curry-paste,  a  bit  of 
glaze,  and  a  little  anchovy ;  boil  together,  and  serve. 


housxkxspjbb's  and  butlibb's  assistant.  23 

No.  74.— FINE-HEBBS  SAUCE. 

First  chop  very  fine  the  following  ingredients :  viz. 
~a  dozen  mnshrooms,  four  shalots,  and  a  little  parsley ; 
put  these  into  a  small  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter, 
stir  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  add  a  gill  of 
brown  sauce,  No.  12  (or  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  a  gill  of 
gravy),  the*  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar ;  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve  as  directed. 

No.  75.— D'UXELLES  SAUCE. 

Chop  fine  the  following  ingredients  in  equal  propor- 
tions, according  to  the  quantity  of  sauce  required  for 
present  use  :  viz., — ^mushrootns,  truffles,  ham,  parsley, 
snd  shalots ;  put  these  into  a  small  stewpan  with  an 
ounce  of  scraped  fat  bacon,  and  stir  the  whole  over  the 
fire  for  six  minutes ;  then  add  about  half  a  pint  of  sauce, 
^e  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  a 
good  pinch  of  sugar,  and  four  yolks  of  eggs ;  stir  again 
over  the  fire  to  set  the  eggs,  and  use  the  D'Qxelles  as 
herein  directed. 

No.  76.— BROWN  COLOURING. 

Put  two  ounces  of  common  sngar  in  a  stewpan  with 
4  spoonful  of  water,  and  set  it  to  boil  on  the  fire ;  as  soon 
8s  the  sngar  begins  to  gain  any  colour,  slacken  the  heat, 
and  continue  stirring  with  a  Vooden  spoon  so  that  it 
Diay  bake  slowly,  and  become  nearly  black  by  degrees 
^thont  being  calcined  or  burnt;  when  sufficiently 
•^ed,  add  a  pint  of  water,  boil  and  skim  it  for  five 
^utes,  and  when  cold,  bottle  it  off  for  use  as  occasion 
Inquires. 

No.  77.— CHATEAUBRIAND  SAUCE. 

Half  a  pint  of  poivrade,  No.  19,  four  truffles  ohopped 
fiiie,  two  ounces  of  red-currant  jelly,  and  a  glass  of  red 
^^e :  boil  together  for  five  minutes. 


24  THE  cook's  gttidb,  Am> 

No.  78.— HOKSERADISH  SJiVCE. 

Scrape  clean  and  grate  a  stickof  horse-radish,  and  put 
it  into  a  basin ;  add  thereto  a  gill  of  cream,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  made  mustard,  the  same  of  pounded  sugar, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  rather  better 
than  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar ;  mix  well  together  and 
serve  in  a  cold  sauceboat,  with  roaat  beefl 

No.  79.— DUTCH  SAUCE. 

Four  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter, 
half  a  gill  of  cream,  a  very  small  quantity  of  nutm^, 
peoper,  and  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  elder  vinegar  :— 
having  put  the  foregoing  ingredients  into  a  small  stew 
pan,  place  it  within  another  stewpan  of  rather  larger 
size,  containing  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  then,  auer 
placing  the  sauce  in  its  bath  over  the  fire,  proceed  to 
work  it  swiftly,  eitJier  with  a  wire  whisk  or  small 
wooden  spoon,  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  present  a 
rich,  smooth,  creamy  appearance.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  to  prevent  this  sauce  from  curdling  and  becoming 
decomposed,  which  may  be  prevented  by  not  stiiring  it 
over  too  fierce  a  fire.  H,  however,  this  accident  should 
occur,  by  adding  either  two  more  yolks,  or  a  spoonful 
of  whitb  sauce,  it  will  be  remedied. 

Note, — Dutch  sauce  may  also  be  flavoured  with  either 
of  thei  following  vinegars  : — tarragon,  chilli,  shalot,  ra- 
vigotte,  anchovy,  or  fine^erbs.  These  vinegars  are  to  be 
obtained  in  perfection  only  at  Crosse  and  Blacki^  ell's, 
SohoHsquare. 

No.  80.— CLEAR  TARRAGON  SAUCK 

To  a  pint  of  good  stock  made  from  veal  and  poultry, 
add  a  small  bunch  of  tarragon,  the  white  of  an  egg 
whipped  with  a  very  little  water,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
tarragon  vinegar ;  continue  whisking  this  over  the  fire 
until  it  boils,  and  then  remove  it  to  the  side,  there  to 
remain  boiling  until  the  egg  is  thoroughly  set  hard,  and 


HOUSSKXSPJBB  S  AND    BUTLSB'S  ASSISTANT.  25 

tbe  aspic  is  perfectly  bright ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
napkin  into  a  stewpan,  and  boil  it  down  to  the  consist- 
ency of  half  glaze.  This  sauce  or  essence  is  used  for 
quenelles,  and  boiled  fowls  or  chickens. 

No.  81.— THE  PRINCE  OF  WALES'  SAUCE. 

First,  prepare  the  following  ingredients,  viz. :  four 
hard  yolks  of  eggs,  four  anchovies  washed  and  wiped, 
a  handful  of  tarragon,  chervil,  bumet,  chives ;    those 
to  be  well  parboiled,  and  afterwards  pressed  in  a  cloth 
to  extract  all  the  water ;  a  tablespoonful  of  capers,  the 
same  of  French  mustard,  and  three  raw  yolks  of  eggs; 
place  all  these  in  a  mortar,  bruise  them  together  with  a 
pestle,  and  then  proceed  to  work  in  nearly  half  a  pint 
of  salad-oil,  and  half  a  gill  of  tarragon   vinegar  by 
degrees.    When  this  is  done,  rub  the  sauce  thus  pro- 
duced through  a  hair  sieve  or  tammy. 

Note.— 'This  sauce  is  used  for  broiled  fish  or  meats 
0  la  Tartare ;  also  for  all  kinds  of  salads  of  fish, 
poultry,  or  game. 

No.  82.— OAZANOVA  SAUCE. 

Take  mayonaise  sauce,  No.  37,  add  fjiir  large  truflles 
shred  fine,  and  as  much  garlic  or  shalot  as  will  rest  on 
the  point  of  a  knife,  the  whites  of  three  hard  eggs  shred 
^,  and  three  yolks  of  hard  eggs  rubbed  through  a 
wire  sieve  ;  mix,  and  serve  this  with  any  kind  of  salad. 


',  No.  83.— DEVIL'S  SAUCE. 


To  a  tablcKpoonful  of  Oude  sauce,  add  a  glassful  ot 
Harvey,  six  slialots  sliced,  a  gill  of  brown  gravy,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar ;  boil  together  for  five  minutes, 
^^  strain  it  into  a  small  stewpan. 


No.  84.— HAM  SAUCE. 


Shred  fine  two  ounces  of  lean  boiled  ham,  and  put 
ihis  into  a  small  stewpan  with  three  shalots  chopped. 


26  THE  cook's  6UID1.  AND 

or  a  like  quantity  of  chopped  chives  when  in  season, 
and  a  bit  of  bntter ;  fry  these  over  the  fire  withont 
braising  the  ham  for  four  minntes ;  then  add  a  gill  of 
brown  sauce,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  little  pepper, 
and  some  chopped  parsley;  boil  the  sauce  for  ^^e 
minutes,  and  serve  it  with  veal  cutlets  or  any  broiled 
meats. 

No.  85.— CUBBY  SAUCE. 

Peel  and  slice  six  large  onions,  put  them  into  a 
covered  stewpan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  over  a 
slow  fire  to  stew,  without  acquiring  any  colour ;  then 
add  three  apples  sliced,  without  peeling  them;  and 
having  replaced  the  whole  on  the  fire  again,  as  soon  as 
these  are  also  dissolved,  add  a  good  tablespoonfal  of 
Captain  White's  curry  paste ;  moisten  with  a  pint  oi 
good  gravy,  and  having  stirred  the  saue«  over  the  fiire 
for  twenty  minutes,  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  or 
tammy,  and  put  it  into  a  small  stewpan,  to  be  used  as 
will  be  here^^ter  indicated. 

No.  86.— BBOWN  MATELOTTE  SAUCE. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce,  No.  12,  into  a  small 
stewpan,  add  a  gill  of  French  red  wine,  eighteen 
button  mushrooms,  and  the  same  number  of  fned 
button  onions;  boil  together  for  ten  minutes,  seasor 
with  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar 
work  in  a  pat  of  butter,  a  little  anchovy,  and  serv< 
according  to  directions. 

No.  87.— WHITE  MATEIX)TTE  SAUCE. 

Scald,  beard,  and  drain  two  dozen  oysters,  and  put 
their  liquor  in  a  stewpan  with  a  glassful  of  French 
white  wine,  some  mushroom  juice,  and  half  a  pint  of 
white  sauce  of  any  kind;  stir  this  over  the  fire  to 
reduce  by  boiling  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  add 
three  yolks  and  half  a  giU  of  cream,  a  little  anchovy, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  stix 


HOnCOBEXEPEB's  AKD   BUTLXb'S  A8SI8TAKT.  27 

again  over  the  fire  to  set  the  leason,  and  strain  the 
fiance  into  a  small  stewpan  containing  the  oysters,  and 
a  like  nnmber  of  button  mushrooms.  This  sauce  is 
mtended  specially  for  what  is  termed  Matelotte  Nor- 
mande;  but  it  is  also  well  adapted  for  many  other 
kinds  of  dressed  fish. 

No.  88.--AXJBORA  SAUCE. 

Fttt  into  a  small  stewpan  half  a  pint  of  Allemande, 
No.  17,  half  a  gill  of  Tomata,  No.  21,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  chilli  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  Harvey,  a  tea- 
Bpoonfal  of  anchovy,  and  a  good  pat  of  butter;  stir 
over  the  fire  until  hot,  and  serve  with  fillets  of  fish  of 

aU  kinds. 

No.  89.— STRAGOTTO  SAUCE. 

Take  an  ounce  of  each  of  the  following  ingredients, 
viz. :  raw  ham,  red  part  of  a  carrot,  celery-root,  parsley- 
^ts,  shalots,  of  raw  game  four  ounces,  one  clove  of 
gwUc,  twenty  peppercorns,  four  cloves,  a  bit  of  mace ; — 
^0  ham,  &c.,  must  be  cut  up  into  very  small  pieces ; — 
piitthe  whole  of  the  before-named  ingredients  into  a 
stewpan  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  salad-oil,  a  bay-leaf, 
andsome  thyme,  and  fry  them  brown  ;  then  add  a  gill  of 
^deira  or  sherry,  half  a  pint  of  Tomata  pulp,  half  a 
pmt  of  good  stock,  and  four  ounces  of  glaze ;  stir  the 
Stiagotto  over  the  £b:e  for  twenty  minutes,  rub  it  through 
*  sieve  or  tammy,  and  keep  it  in  gallipots  covered  over 
^thlard  in  a  cool  place,  to  be  used  as  occasion  requires, 
^Of  Italian  dishes  only. 

No.  90.— LYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

Peel  and  cut  into  thick  shreds  two  Portugal  onions, 
*^d  fry  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  spoonful  of  oil, 
pepper,  and  salt,  of  a  light-brown  colour ;  they  must  be 
occasionally  stirred  with  a  fork  in  order  not  to  bruise 
them,  and  when  fried,  add  a  gill  of  Tomata,  No.  21,  a 
piece  of  glaze,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  boil  gently 
for  five  minutes. 


28  THS  oooK*s  oums,  ahd 

No.  91 — CELEBT  SAUCE. 

ThoTonghly  cleanse  four  heads  of  white  oeleiy  and 
slice  them  very  thin ;  put  this  into  a  stewpan  witn  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  salt,  and  fonr  ounces  of  butter  and  an 
onion  sliced;  put  the  lid  on  the  stewpan  and  set  il 
over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  very  gently  until  the  celery  i£ 
dissolved,  without  acquiring  any  colour.  Then  add 
four  ounces  of  flour  and  a  pint  of  milk ;  stir  again  ovei 
the  fire  until  the  sauce  has  boiled  twenty  minutes,  and 
then,  having  rubbed  it  through  a  sieve  or  tammy,  put  it 
into  a  small  stewpan ;  to  be  used  for  boiled  ponltiy  oi 
game. 

No.  92.— RUSSIAN  SAUCE. 

Put  the  following  ingredients  into  a  small  stewpan, 
viz. :  a  stick  of  horseradish  scraped,  four  sliced  shalots, 
a  bay-leaf  and  thyme,  a  little  raw  ham  chopped,  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  salt,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  small 
glass  of  vinegar,  a  like  quantity  of  wine,  and  an  ounce 
of  butter ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  set  this  to  simmer  over  a 
very  slow  heat  for  about  twenty  minutes,  in  ordei 
thoroughly  to  extract  the  flavour.  Next,  add  rathei 
better  than  a  gill  of  white  sauce,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
a  gill  of  cream ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  U 
boil,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  tammy  into  a  stewpar 
for  use. 

No.  93.— ALMOND  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Scald  one  ounce  of  Jordan  almonds  and  six  bittei 
almonds ;  and,  having  freed  them  from  their  hulls  oi 
skins,  put  them  in  a  mortar  with  four  ounces  of  sugai 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water :  bruise  then 
into  a  pulp,  and  then  remove  this  into  a  Rmall  stew- 
pan ;  add  a  gill  of  cream  and  two  yolks  of  raw  eggs^ 
and  with  a  wire  whisk  whip  the  sauce  over  a  very  slow 
heat  tmtil  it  becomes  a  substantial  smooth  froth.  Thi« 
sauce  is  for  puddings. 


housikxspxk's  AMD  butlbb'b  AJSSISTAMT.  29 

'       No.  94.— PLUM  SAUCE. 

Bemove  the  stones  from  a  pint  of  Orleans  pliuns,  and 
put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  a  gill  of  water,  and  four 
ounces  of  sugar ;  stir  them  over  a  sharp  fire  nntil  ihe 
plums  are  dissolved,  and  then  rub  the  sauce  through  a 
sieve  or  tammy,  to  be  afterwards  used  to  pour  over 
Bteamed  sweet  puddings. 

^(rfe.— Similar  kinds  of  pudding  sauce  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  manner,  by  using  for  such  purposes  either 
peaches,  or  nectarines,  apricots,  damsons,  <&c. 

No.  95.-CHEBBY  SAUCE. 

Pick  the  stalks  from  a  pound  of  Kentish  cherries,  and 
hruise  them  in  a  mortar  so  as  to  crack  the  stones ;  re- 
move this  pulp  into  a  sugar-boiler;  add  a  handful  of 
picked  red  currants,  and  six  ounces  of  sugar  ;  boil  the 
'^hole  over  the  fire  for  about  ten  minutes  (stirring  with 
a  wooden  spoon),  and  then  rub  the  sauce  through  a 
^iove ;  afterwards  to  be  used  for  puddings. 

No.  96.— RASPBERRY  SAUCE. 

This  is  prepared  by  placing  raspberries  and  red 
-urrants— say  four  ounces  of  each — in  a  sugar-boiler 
^th  a  wineglassful  of  water  and  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
aud  then  proceed  as  indicated  for  cherry  sauce. 

No.  97.— ABROWROOT  SAUCE. 

To  a  tablespoonful  of  an-owroot  add  twice  that  quan- 
tity of  sugar,  a  glass  of  wine,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  nearly  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  water ;  stir  this  quickly 
over  the  fire  until  it  boils. 

Note. — This  sauce  may  also  be  prepared  in  an  almost 
infinite  variety  of  ways,  by  using  instead  of  wine,  milk 
or  Water  as  a  liquid  to  mix  with  the  arrowroot,  the 
juices  extracted  from  almost  all  kinds  of  fruits  as  well 
^  all  kinds  of  liqueurs ;  and  they  may  also  be  flavoured 
'^ith  vanilla,  lemon,  orange,  &c. 


30  THB   OOOK'8  guide,   AND 

No.  98.— WINE  SAUCE  FOB  PUDDINGS. 

To  a  gill  of  melted  batter  add  a  glass  of  wine,  mm, 
or  brandy,  a  little  grated  lemon  or  orange-peel,  and  a 
spoonful  of  sugar. 

No.  99. -WHIP  SAUCE. 

Put  four  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  small  deep  stewpan ;  add 
two  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  Httle  lemon- 
juice  and  grated  peel,  and  a  grain  of  salt ;  whisk  the 
sauce  over  a  moderate  heat,  taking  care  to  set  the  stew- 
pan  which  contains  the  whip  sauce  in  another  of  some- 
what larger  size  already  containing  a  little  hot  water, — 
say  an  inch — and  as  soon  as  it  presents  the  appearance 
of  a  well-set  creamy  froth,  pour  it  over  a  plum  pudding, 
or  any  other  kind  of  steamed  pudding,  such  as  cabinet, 
souffl^,  semolina,  &c. 

Nbte» — This  sauce  may  also  be  flavoured  with  all 
kinds  of  liqueurs,  essences,  and  syrups  of  various  kindfi 
of  fruits.  When  an  essence,  or  merely  orange  or  lemon 
sugar,  is  used  for  the  purpose  of  flavouring,  instead  ol 
wine  or  any  other  liquid,  a  glass  of  milk  must  be  added, 
to  compensate  for  its  absence. 

No.  lOO.-OBANGE  SAUCE. 

Bub  the  rind  of  two  oranges  all  over  several  lumps  oi 
sugar,  and  then  scrape  it  off  and  put  it  into  a  small  stew- 
pan  with  the  juice  and  pulp  of  four  oranges — previously 
rubbed  through  a  very  clean  sieve;  to  this  add  a 
spoonful  of  arrowroot  or  potalo  flour,  two  ounces  ol 
sugar,  and  a  liqueur-glassful  of  cura9oa ;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  sauce  thickens,  and  then  pour  it  over  the 
pudding. 


EOUSXKEIPJBB'S  and  BUTLEllS  ASSISTAKT.  81 


CHAPTER  II. 
GARNISHES  FOR  EKTB^ES  OB  OTHER  MADE  DISHES. 


No.  101.— MAOEDOINE  OP  VEGETABLES. 

Scrape  two  or  more  carrots  clean  and  smooth,  and 
peel  a  like  number  of  sound  turnips  perfectly  smooth ; 
Md  then  with  French  vegetable  scoops  (easily  obtained 
at  Adams'  warehouse,  Haymarket,)  proceed  to  shape  the 
carrots  and  turnips  into  the  form  of  olives,  filberts, 
peas,  dec,  and  having  boiled  these  in  a  little  broth,  or 
water  with  a  bit  of  butter,  sugar,  and  salt,  when  done, 
drain  them  dry  and  place  Uiem  in  a  small  sautapan  with 
ft  like  quantity  of  green  peas,  asparagus  peas,  nibs  of 
cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts,  and  French  beans  cut  in 
^e  shape  of  diamonds :  all  these  vegetables  must  have 
heen  previously  cooked,  and  well  drained — free  from 
ft^y  moisture.  Next,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good 
^ck  white  sauce,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tea- 
Bpoonfol  of  sugar ;  toss  the  macddoine  lightly  together 
over  the  fire,  and  serve  as  hereafter  indicated. 

No.  102.— JARDINIERE. 

This  is  prepared  with  vegetables  as  in  the  foregoing 
^cipe,  excepting  that  instead  of  white  sauce  a  piece  of 
%ht-coloured  glaze  should  bo  substituted. 

No.  103.~-REFORM  CHIPS. 

These  are  composed  of  the  following  ingredients, 
^. :  boiled  red  part  of  carrots,  black  tnififles,  lean  part 
^f  boiled  ham  or  baoon,  hard-boiled  whites  of  eggs,  and 


82  rHE  COOK'S  cnTiDi,  Ain> 

the  outer  part  only  of  Indian  mountain  green  gherkins. 
These  must  be  very  neatly  shred  into  strippets,  measur- 
ing about  half  an  inch  in  length  by  the  twelfth  of  an 
inch  square  or  thick,  lliese  chips  should  be  made  hot 
in  a  basin  in  the  screen,  tossed  lightly  to  mix  them, 
and  piled  up  in  the  centre  of  cutlets  a  la  R^forme. 

No.  104.— GLAZED  ONIONS. 

Peel  any  given  number  of  onions  of  the  most  con- 
venient size  for  the  required  purpose,  and  having  placed 
these  in  a  proper-sized  sautapan  or  stewpan,  add  a 
bit  of  butter,  four  lumps  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  jnsi 
as  much  good  stock  as  will  cover  the  surfguse  of  the 
onions.  Next,  set  the  stewpan  containing  the  onions 
over  a  moderate  fire  to  boil  very  gently  until  they  are 
done ;  and  then,  after  running  down  their  stock  to  a 
glaze,  roll  the  onions  gently  in  this,  and  serve  as  di- 
rected. 

No.  105.— GLAZED  CAEEOTS. 

First  cleanse,  and  tlien  cut  or  scoop  these  into  any 
shape  or  size  or  form,  according  to  taste  or  fancy ;  and 
having  cooked  them  in  the  manner  directed  for  glazed 
onions,  proceed  to  finish  them  in  the  same  way. 

No.  106.-CUCUMBEB  GAKNISH. 

First,  peel  or  cut  up  one  or  more  cucumbeis  int^ 
pieces  about  an  inch  in  length,  and  according  to  the  w^ 
of  the  cucumber  ;  divide  these  by  splitting  them  dowia 
wards  into  as  many  pieces  as  will  leave  each  the  size  c: 
a  florin ;  remove  the  seeds,  and  then  put  them  into 
small  stewpan  with  a  pat  of  butter,  a  dessert-spoonful  c 
sugar,  a  wineglassful  of  vinegar,  nutmeg,  pepper,  an 
salt ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  set  them  to  simmer  very  gentl. 
over  a  very  slow  fire  until  they  are  done  through.  Nexl 
when  finishing  them  for  use,  boil  them  down  until  al 
the  moisture  becomes  absorbed  by  the  cucumbers,  ponJ 
Away  the  butter  that  remains,  add  a  little  thick  whit^ 
Rauce,  toss  lightly  together,  and  serve  with  cutlets,  &o 


HOUBKKIOIPSB'S  ASD   BDTUCB'S  A»BI8TANT.  88 

No.  107.— GBEEN  PEAS  FOR  GARNISH. 

Boil  with  due  C5are  a  pint  of  young  green  peas,  and 
aaving  drained  them  free  from  all  moisture,  add  a 
spoonful  of  white  sauce,  a  pat  of  butter,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar ;  toss  liglitly  over  the 
fire,  and  use  them  to  garnish  cutlets,  &c. 

No.  108.— ASPARAGUS,  PEAS,  &c. 

These,  as  well  as  French  beans,  haricot  beans,  very 
small  new  potatoes,  broccoUi,  cauliflowers,  or  Brussels 
spronts,  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  indicated 
for  green  peas,  and  used  for  the  same  purposes. 

Na  109-111.— PUR^E  OP  GREEN  PEAS  FOR  GARNISH. 

Boil  a  pint  of  green  peas  with  some  mint  and  a  few 
spring  onions ;  and  when  they  are  done,  drain  oflf  the 
^ater;  bruise  them  in  a  moiiar,  rub  them  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  having  placed  this  pulp  in  a  small  stewpan, 
^th  a  pat  of  butter,  a  bit  of  glaze,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar ;  stir  altogether  over  the  fire 
^Qtil  quite  hot,  and  pile  up  the  pur^e  in  the  centre  of 
cntlete,  &c. 

No.  112.— PUREE  OP  SPINACH. 

^Vash  clean  and  boil  half  a  peck  of  spinach,  and  when 
*sll  drained,  pound  this  in  a  mortar,  rub  it  through  a 
^e  sieve,  and  having  placed  the  pulp  in  a  small  stew- 
P*^  finish  it  in  the  same  manner  as  indicated  for  puree 

of  peas. 

No.  113.— PUREE  OF  SPRUE  ASPARAGUS. 

Break  off  all  the  tender  part  of  a  bundle  of  green 
^rue  asparagus,  and,  having  washed  it  clean,  put  it  on 
to  boil  in  water  with  a  handful  of  spring  onions,  and  a 
^tinble  handful  of  parsley,  with  a  little  salt ;  and  as  soon 
^  it  is  done,  drain  off  the  water ;  bruise  it  in  a  mortar, 
^bthe  whole  through  a  hair  sieve ;  and,  having  i^laoed 


34  THX  oook'«i  guidx,  akd 

the  pulp  in  a  small  stewpan,  add  a  pat  of  batter,  a  Hpoon- 
ful  of  flonr,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  bit  of  glaze,  and  a 
little  sugar ;  make  it  hot  by  stirring  the  pur^e  over  tlie 
fire  for  five  minutes,  and  seme  it  with  cutlets,  &o. 

No.  114.— PURKE  OF  POTATOES. 

Bake,  steam,  or  boil  six  potatoes ;  and  when  done,  mb 
them  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  place  the  result  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  pat  of  butter,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  a  bit 
of  glaze,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  quite  hot,  and  serve  with  cutlets,  Ac. 

No.  116.— PUREE  OF  CHESTNTJTa 

First  remove  the  outer  skin  from  fifty  large  chestnuts, 
and  then  after  having  scalded  them,  scrape  oif  all  the 
inner  brown  skin ;  having  done  this,  place  the  chest- 
nuts in  a  small  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  milk,  and. 
boil  them  gently  over  the  fire;  and  when  done  soft* 
drain  away  the  milk,  and  rub  them,  while  hot,  throvgli 
a  wire  sieve  : — having  placed  this  pulp  in  a  small  stew- 
pan, add  a  pat  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  bit 
of  glaze,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  the 
puree  of  chestnuts  over  the  fire  until  quite  hot,  and 
«rve  with  cutlets,  &c. 

No.  ll&^PUBEE  OF  CABROTS. 

Scrape  six  carrots  clean,  and  then  shave  off  all  the 
red  part,  which  having  parboiled  for  a  few  minutes, 
drain  dry  and  put  into  a  small  stewpan  with  a  pat  oi 
butter,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  one  small  onion,  and  a 
gill  of  stock ;  allow  this  to  simmer  gently  on  the  firo 
until  the  carrots  become  quite  soft  to  fiie  touch,  and  the 
liquor  is  absorbed  by  boiling  down;  pound  this  in  • 
mortar,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  remove  it  into  a  small 
stewpan,  season  with  a  bit  of  glaze,  a  pat  of  butteTt 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  make  the  pur^  hot,  and 
pile  it  in  the  centre  of  cutlets,  &o^  and  serve. 


ROUSEKKJCPBIl*S  AND   BDTLEfi'S  ASSISTANT.  85 

No,  117.-PUREE  OF  ARTICHOKES. 

Boil  four  fresh  artichokes  in  plenty  of  water  and  a 
little  salt,  and  when  thoroughly  done,  which  is  ascer- 
tained by  the  leaves  coming  out  Teadily  when  slightly 
pulled,  they  must  then  be  drained  and  cooled ;  and  after 
having  removed  all  the  soft  pulpy  part  by  scraping  it  ol! 
with  a  spoon  from  the  hard  leaves,  and  removing  also 
the  floss  adhering  to  the  artichoke,  place  the  pulp  in  a 
fflnall  stewpan  with  a  pat  of  butter,  a  teaspoon ful  of 
flour,  ditto  of  sugar,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little 
Biilk,  or  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  bit  of  glaze  ;  stir  this  over 
the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  cutlets,  frican- 
deanx,  sweetbreads,  &c. 

No.  118.— PUREE  OP  TURNIPS. 

Peel,  slice  up,  and  then  boil  six  sound  turnips ;  and 
^ving  drained  them  free  from  water,  rub  them  through 
ft  veiy  clean  wire  sieve,  and  place  the  pulp  in  a  small 
stewpan  with  a  little  flour,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  a 
pat  of  butter,  a  bit  of  light-coloured  glaze,  and  a  gill 
of  cream ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  ten  minures,  and  serve 
^th  any  dish  or  entree  made  of  mutton. 

No.  119.— PUREE  OF  CELERY. 

This  is  prepared  nearly  in  the  same  manner  as  celery 
^^ce,  No.  91,  the  only  difference  being  that,  for  cutlets, 
Of  any  other  entree,  less  flour  and  liquid,  and  more 
f*|ery  must  be  used ;  also  that  the  puree  must  be 
^'iicker,  in  order  the  better  to  pile  it  up  in  the  centre 
^'fanentr^. 

No.  119a. -PUREE  OF  SORREL. 

^t  a  peck  of  sorrel  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  ol 
^ater,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon 
•^til  dissolved,  and  then  pour  it  into  a  hair  sieve,  and 
'^^  it  to  drain  otf  all  the  water.     Next,  fry  four  slicf>d 


86  THB  cook's  guide,  and 

onions  in  two  ounces  of  butter  until  lightly  browned, 
add  two  ounces  of  flour,  one  ounce  of  sugar,  nutm^, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  moisten  witli  a  pint  of  good  grav)' ;  stir 
the  pur^e  over  the  fire  for  full  twenty  minutes,  and  then 
rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve. 

No.  120— PUREE  OF  POULTBY. 

Take  the  remains  of  roast  or  boiled  poultry  from  a 
previous  day's  dinner,  and  having  removed  all  the  meat . 
from  skin  and  bones,  put  these  into  a  small  stewpan 
wifh  a  shalot,  a  bit  of  celery,  a  small  sprig  of  thyme, 
and  a  gill  of  stock  or  water ;  and  while  this  is  gently 
boiling  over  the  fire,  chop  fine,  and  pound  the  meat  from 
the  poultry,  in  a  mortar  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  stock  from  the  bones ;  and  when  thoroughly  re- 
duced to  a  pulp,  rub  this  through  a  hair  sieve  ;  put  it  in 
a  stewpan  with  the  stock  from  the  bones,  which  must 
be  previously  boiled  down  to  less  than  half  a  gill ;  tc 
this  add  a  gill  of  cream,  a  very  little  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  a  small  spoonful  of  flour ;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  quite  hot,  and  serve. 

Note, — This,  as  well  as  all  other  pur^s  made  from 
any  kinds  of  meats,  may  be  used  for  garnishing  patties, 
croustades,  borders  of  rice  or  potatoes,  and  may  be  also 
neatly  dished  up  'with  potato  croquettes.  Poached  ^gs 
and  strippets  of  fried  bacon  are  also  admissible  as  a 
garnish,  and  form  a  very  pretty,  economical,  and  deli- 
cate entree.  If  you  have  any  good  white  sauce  at  hand, 
use  this  in  preference  to  the  flour. 

No.  121.— PUREE  OP  GAME. 

Proceed  as  directed  for  the  preparation  of  pur^  of 
fowl.  No.  1 20. 

No.  122.— PATTY  MEATS. 

For  this  purpose  use  any  kinds  of  remains  of  poultry 
or  game,  cut  into  small  neat  mince,  to  which  add  either 
H  small  proportion  of  cooked  lean  of  ham  or  tongue ; 


HOUSSEERFifiR'S   AND   BUTLEB's  ASSISTANT.  37 

moisten  with  a  little  white  sauce,  season  lightly,  and 
with  this  mince  fill  all  kinds  of  patties. 

Note. — The  remains  of  turbot,  brill,  salmon,  soles,  &c., 
i>r  any  kind  of  shell-fish,  serve  for  this  purpose  as  a 
rariety. 

No.  123.— CHIPOLATA  EAGOUT. 

Place  the  following  ingredients,  ready  cooked,  in  a 
stewpan :  viz.,— small  round  sausages,  teaspoon-shaped 
quenelles,  bits  of  bacon,  the  size  and  shape  of  a  small 
walnat,  button  mushrooms,  truffles,  the  red  part  of  a 
carrot  scooped  in  round  shapes,  and  roasted  and  peeled 
chestnuts ;  all  these  in  equal  proportions  and  in  such 
quantities  as  may  be  required  for  the  garnish  of  a  large 
or  small  dish ;  truffles,  being  always  an  expensive  article, 
may  be  omitted  without  much  deterioration,  llien  add 
some  brown  sauce  and  a  glass  of  madeira. 

Note. — ^This  i*agout  is  used  for  a  vaiiety  of  purposes  : 
viz. — ^for  garnishing  roast  or'  boiled  poultry,  or  game  ; 
also  for  garnishing  cutlets  and  other  dishes. 

No.  124.— FINANCIEEE  BAGOUT. 

Place  in  a  stewpan  the  following  articles  ready 
cooked:  viz., — a  few  cockscombs,  button  mushrooms, 
truffles,  quenelles,  and  scollops  of  sweetbreads;  to 
these  add  half  a  pint  of  good  brown  sauce,  flavoured, 
if  possible,  with  game,  a  glass  of  sherry  or  madwa,  and 
a  small  pinch  of  cayenne;  boil  together  for  three  mi- 
nutes, and  serve  for  garnishes  of  vol -au- vents,  patties 
(cut  smaller),  and  a  great  number  of  dishes  for  which  this 
ragout  is  specially  adapted,  as  will  be  herein  shown. 

No.  125.— TOULOUSE  RAGOUT. 

This  is  prepared  with  the  same  ingredients  as  named 
for  Financiere,  No.  124,  using  Allemande,  No,  17,  or 
Bechamel,  No.  16,  instead  of  brown  sauce.  This  ragout 
is  also  adapted  for  similar  purposes  to  those  indicated 
is  the  use  of  Financiere. 


38  THX  OOO&'S  OUIDE,   AKB 

No.  126.— MILANESE  RAGOUT. 

Cut  into  inch  lengths  by  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square 
the  following  ingredients,  ready  cooked  :  viz.,  isLcaroniy 
ham  or  tongue,  truffles,  mushrooms,  and  chicken  or 
game ;  prepare  these  in  equal  proportions  and  in  such 
quantity  as  required,  and  put  them  into  a  small  stew- 
pan  with  a  little  good  white  sauce,  about  an  ounce  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  very  little  nutmeg,  and 
pepper ;  toss  the  ragout  lightly  over  the  fire  until  qnite 
hot,  and  serve  for  similar  purposes  as  those  indicated 
for  Financiere,  &c. 

No.  127.~MAITBE-DHOTEL  BUTTEB. 

Put  the  following  ingredients  into  a  small  basin :  viz., 
four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  some  finely-chopped  parsley, 
and  a  small  proportion  of  green  onions ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  mix  well  to- 
gether with  a  spoon,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  until 
required  for  use. 

No.  128.— ANCHO\Tr  BUTTER. 

Cleanse  well  six  anchovies,  and  pound  them  in  a  mor- 
tar with  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy ;  ru\> 
this  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  use  as  directed. 

.  No.  129.— LOBSTER  BUTTER. 

Take  the  spawn  or  coral  of  the  lobster,  or  both ;  and, 
having  first  pounded  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  piece  ol 
fresh  butter,  rub  the  whole  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
use  it  for  flavouring  and  colouring  sauces,  &c. 

No.  130.-EPICUREAN  BUTTER. 

This  is  composed  of  the  following  ingredients  :  viz.,  a 
large  handful  of  tarragon,  chervil,  parslev,  bumet,  and 
chives,  in  equal  proportions,  parboiled,  and  squeezed  dry 


HOnSEKBKPSB*S   AND   BUTLIB  8  ABSISTANT.  39 

in  a  cloth;  six  anchovies  cleansed,  a  tablespoonfal  of 
capers,  ditto  of  Onde  sauce,  and  four  ounces  of  fresh 
butter ;  pound  all  these  thoroughly,  and  having  rubbed 
the  composition  through  a  hair  sieve,  keep  it  to  be  used 
as  directed  hereafter. 

Hio.  131.— DEVIL  MIXTUEE. 

When  about  to  devil  legd  of  poultry  or  game,  beef,  or 
other  bones,  or  any  kind  of  wild  fowl,  or  any  kind  of 
fish,  or  fish  bones,  first  prepare  the  following  mixture, 
with  which,  after  having  scored  the  meats,  <&c.,  with  deep 
incisions,  let  them  be  well  covered,  and  grilled  brown ; 
mix  well  upon  a  plate  the  following  articles :  viz.,  a 
spoonfdl  of  mustard  (either  French  or  English),  the 
same  quantity  of  Ou4e  sauce,  or  chutnee,  and  of  anchovy, 
twice  as  much  salad-oil,  and  a  little  cayenne  peppei* 

J^ote, — All  these  seasoned  butters  are  well  adapted  for 
b^ng  served  under  meat  steaks,  or  fish  steaks ;  and  also 
for  seasoning  plain  butter  sauce  for  boiled  or  fried  fish, 


40  THS  COOK'S   GUIDE.    AHD 


(CHAPTER  III. 
SOUPS  IN  GENEBAL. 


No.  1S2.-JXJLIKNNE  SOUP. 

Take  three  red  carrots,  as  many  turnips,  and  the  white 
parts  of  the  same  number  of  heads  of  celery,  leeks,  and 
onions;  cut  all  these  into  thin  shreds  about  an  inch 
long,  and  pat  them  into  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of 
butter,  a  little  salt  and  sugar ;  and  stirring  lightly  over 
a  slow  fire,  fry  them  of  a  very  light  colour ;  then  pour 
them  into  a  convenient-sized  soup-pot,  add  sufficient 
clear  stock  for  the  quantity  of  soup  required;  set  it  to 
boil,  and  then  remove  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  to  throw 
up  the  scum  and  grease ;  remove  these  as  they  rise  to 
the  surface ;  add  two  cabbage-lettuces,  a  few  leaves  ot 
sorrel,  some  tarragon  and  chervil,  all  shred  fine,  and 
four  lumps  of  sugar ;  and,  after  allowing  the  julienne  to 
simmer  until  the  vegetables  are  done,  ascertain  that  the 
seasoning  is  palatable,  and  serve. 

No.  133.— JAEDINIERE  SOUP. 

Scrape,  peel,  and  clean  three  carrots,  and  a  like 
number  of  turnips;  and  with  small-sized  vegetable 
scoops,  proceed  to  scoop  them  out  into  the  form  of  peas, 
olives,  &c.,  according  to  fancy  or  convenience.  AVhen 
this  is  done,  place  the  said  vegetables,  with  equal 
quantities  of  very  small  button  onions,  celery,  cut  the 
size  of  the  carrots,  &c,y  some  pulled  leaves  of  lettuce, 
tarragon,  and  chervil,  in  a  Poup-pot ;  fill  up  with  clew 


houskrekpsb's  and  butlxb's  assistant.  11 

stock ;  add  a  bit  of  sugar :  boil  gently  until  the  vege- 
tables are  done ;  taste  to  ascertain  that  the  flavour  ia 
good,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  134.— BRUNOISE  SOUP. 

Clean,  and  cut  up  into  very  minute  square  pieces  the 
following  vegetables  :  viz.,  three  carrots,  and  a  like 
number  of  turnips,  heads  of  celery,  leeks,  and  onions  ; 
fry  these  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  sugar,  and 
proceed  in  every  particular  in  the  same  mimner  as  in- 
dicated for  julienne  soup ;  and  when  ready  to  send  to 
table,  add  a  few  boiled  Brussels  sprouts  when  in  sea- 
son, and  some  very  small  round  crusts  from  a  French 
rolL 

No,  134A.-SPRING  SOUP. 

This  soup  is  prepared  very  much  in  the  same  manner 
as  jardiniere  soup,  excepting  that,  as  indeed  its  very 
name  sufficiently  implies,  it  must  be  made  with  early 
summer  vegetables  only ;  and  when  about  to  be  sent  to 
table,  some  ready-boiled  asparagus-peas .  and  green  peas 
should  be  added.  ^ 

No.  135.— CHIFFONADE  SOUP. 

With  a  round  tin  cutter  about  the  size  of  a  florin, 
stamp  out  about  four  good-sized  lettuces ;  and  having 
put  these  into  a  soup-pot  with  the  heads  of  a  few 
spring-onions,  a  few  leaves  of  tarragon,  and  some 
chervil,  four  leaves  of  green  mint,  and  a  pint  of  young 
green  peas,  fill  up  with  clear  consomme,  season  with 
a  small  pinch  of  mignionette  pepper,  and  a  good  lump 
of  sugar;  boil  gently  until  the  peas,  &c.,  are  done,  and 
ierve. 

No.  136.— CELERY  AND  BUTTON-ONIONS  SOUP. 

Having  cleansed  three  heads  of  celery,  cut  them  into 
inch  lengths ;  boil  them  in  water  for  five  minutes,  and 
when  drained,  place  them  in  a  soup-pot  with  half  a  pint 


42  THE   OOOE'S   GmDE,   AND 

of  button  onions,  a  little  tarragon  and  chervil,  a  pieoe  of 
sugar,  and  a  pincli  of  mignionette  pepper ;  fill  up  with 
game  stock ;  boil  gently  until  the  celery  is  thorou^ily 
done,  and  serve. 

No.  137.-D'ESCLIGNAC  SOUP. 

Break  six  fresh  whole  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  thereto 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  gill  of  strong  stock  (game  or 
poultry  if  possible),  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt; 
beat  this  up  with  a  fork  until  well  mixed,  and  strain  the 
mixture  into  a  plain  mould  which  has  been  previously 
lightly  buttered  round  the  sides  and  bottom  to  prevent 
this  savory  custard  from  sticking  to  the  mould,  while  it 
is  being  gently  steamed  over  a  slow  fire,  in  a  covered 
stewpan  containing  a  little  hot  water;  and,  when  the 
custard  has  become  firm  to  the  touch — which  will  take 
about  half  an  hour,  allow  it  to  become  cold ;  and  after 
having  turned  it  out  upon  a  plate,  cut  it  into  neat  square 
pieces  the  size  of  a  filbert ;  place  these  gently  in  a  soup 
tureen;  add  some  clear  bright  game  or  chicken  oon- 
somm^,  and  serve.  A  few  asparagus-peas,  green  peas,  or 
French  beans  cut  small,  may  be  added  when  m  season. 

No.  138.-CONSOMME  WITH  QUENELLES. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  the  foregoing* 
by  substituting  small  teaspoon  quenelles  for  the  pieces 
of  custai'd. 

No.  139.-OAELTON-HOUSE  SOUP. 

To  some  bright  consomm^  add  a  dozen  small  tea- 
spoon quenelles,  half  the  usual  quantity  of  custard  for 
D*Esclignac,  No.  1 37,  and  some  very  small  rolls  the  size 
of  cobnuts,  made  of  Spanish  puff-paste,  and  previously 
baked  in  an  oven.  ^\  hen  about  to  serve  this  kind  of 
sonp,  the  quenelles  and  pieces  of  custard  must  be  placed 
in  the  soup-tureen,  the  consomm^  poured  gently  over 
them,  and  the  rolls  above  alluded  to,  placed  the  last 
rhing  on  the  surface  of  the  soup. 


houskeebfbb'b  Aia>  Bunjoi's  assistant.  43 

No.  140.— MOCK-TUKTLB  SOUP,  CLEAR. 

First  bone,  and  then  parboil  the  calf  s  bead  in  plenty 

of  "\vater,  and  a  small  handful  of  salt,  for  abont  twenty  mi- 

nntes ;  and  when  the  calf  s  head  has  become  sufficiently 

cold,  by  steeping  in  cold  water,  proceed  to  trim  away 

the    rough    partis,   particularly  the   cuticle    about  Ihe 

mouth.    Having  done  this,  next  place  the  head  in  a  large 

Htewpan,  with  a  good-sized  knuckle  of  veal,  about  a 

pound  of  raw  ham,  two  carrots,  two  onions — one  stuck 

with  twelve  cloves — a  head  of  celery,a  bunch  of  basil, 

marjoram,  lemon  thyme,  a  sprig  of  common  thvme,  some 

parsley,  winter  savory,  and  spring  onions,  and  two  blades 

of  mace ;  add  a  quart  of  good  stock,  set  the  stewpan  over 

the  fire  to  boil  hharply  Tintil  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  a 

glaze— due  care  being  given  to  this  part  of  the  process 

to  prevent  the  soup  becoming  burnt.     Next,  fill  up  the 

stewpsoi  either  with  stock  or  water ;  and  when  it  boils 

again,  skim  it  carefully,  keeping  it  gently  boiling  by  the 

side  of  the  fire,  until  the  calf  s  head  is  nearly  done.     The 

head  must  now  be  carefully  lifted  out  of  the  stock  with 

a  skimmer,  and  after  being  washed  in  a  large  pan  of 

cold  water,  and  well   drained  upon  a  sieve  or  cloth, 

placed  in  press,  between  two  large  dishes,  in  the  larder  to 

become  cold.   The  calf  s-head  stock  must  now  be  strained 

through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  stewpan ;  the  grease  entirely 

removed  from  its  suiface,  and  then  clarified  by  mixing 

into  it  three  whites  of  eggs  previously  whipped  with  a 

pint  of  (jold  water;  set  the  stock  on  the  lire,  and  wliisk 

it  until  it  boils,  and  then  lift  it  to  the  side  of  the  stove^ 

there  to  boil  gently  imtil  it  has  become  bright :    this 

will  take  about  twenty  minutes.     The  stock  must  now 

be  strained  through  a  napkin  into  a  soup-pot ;  the  calf's 

Head  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  square,  and  being  placed 

in  the  mock-turtle  stock,  add  half  a  pint  of  madeira, 

a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  allow  the  soup  to  boil  gently 

by  the  side  of  the  fire  until  the  pieces   of  meat  are 

thoroughly  done.     When  about  to  send  to  table,  add  some 

^ery  small  forcemeat  quenelles,  and  a  little  lemon-juice. 


44  TfiS  cook's  6UIDX,   Aia> 

Note. — Forcemeat,  for  the  quenelles  iiere  uUnded  to^ 
is  prepared  as  follows :  viz., — to  half  a  pound  of  lean 
veal,  pounded  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  add  two 
ounces  of  panada.  No.  184,  six  hard  yolks  of  e^^  as 
ounce  of  butter,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  three  or 
four  yolks  of  raw  eggs ;  pound  all  this  in  a  mortar,  rub  it 
through  a  wire  sieve,  and  then,  having  rolled  this  pre- 
paration out  (with  some  flour  shaken  over  the  table)  into 
the  form  of  toy-marbles,  throw  these  into  some  water 
kept  ready  boifing  in  a  stewpan  for  the  purpose ;  they 
will  be  done  in  six  minutes ;  after  being  drained,  piit 
them  into  the  mock -turtle. 

No.  140a.— MOCK-TUBTLB. 

Prepare  this  in  the  first  instance  in  the  same  manner 
as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe  for  mock-tortle 
dear ;  and,  when  the  head  is  done,  and  placed  in  press, 
and  the  stock  has  been  passed  or  strained  into  another 
stewpan,  add  about  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  thickening 
No.  9,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  the  sauce  boils ;  re- 
move it  to  the  side  to  remain  gently  simmering,  in  order 
to  enable  it  to  throw  up  all  grease,  Ac.,  which  remove, 
and  then  add  half  a  pint  of  madeira  or  sherry,  the  jnioe 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  put  the  pieces 
of  calf  8  head  (cut  into  small  squares)  into  a  sonp-pot^ 
strain  the  sauce  to  these,  and  having  allowed  the  soup 
to  boil  gently  until  the  meat  is  done,  skim  it,  and  then 
add  the  small  quenelles,  as  in  the  former  case. 

No.  141.— GIBLET  SOUP,  CLEAR. 

Take  two  sets  of  geese  giblets  thoroughly  cleansed, 
and  parboiled  in  hot  water  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes; 
drain,  and  immerse  them  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes ; 
and  then  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  bunch  of 
basil,  marjoram,  lemon  thyme,  winter  savory,  and  pars- 
ley, tied  neatly  together;  carrot,  celery,  two  onions 
stuck  with  a  dozen  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  six 
shalots  ;  fill  up  with  about  a  gallon  of  good  stock,  or 
water  (in  the  latter  case,  add  four  pounds  of  knuckle  of 


houssksepeb's  and  butlsbs  assistant.  4kt 

Teal) ;  set  the  giblets  thus  far  prepared  to  boil  over  the 
fire ;  skim  them  well,  and  allow  them  to  boil  very  gently 
by  the  side  of  the  fire,  until  they  are  nearly  done  ;  then 
strain  off  the  stock,  wash  the  giblets  in  cold  water,  drain 
and  cut  them  np, — the  wings  and  feet  into  inch  and 
half  lengths,  and  the  livers,  &c.,  into  smaller  pieces. 
Next,  after  the  giblet  stock  has  been  strained  into 
another  stewpan,  and  freed  from  all  grease,  proceed  to 
clarify  it  as  directed  for  clear  mock-turtle ;  and  finish 
this  soup  in  the  S€une  manner. 

No.  141a.— GIBLET  SOUP.  THICK. 

Prepare  this  as  in  the  foregoing  number,  and  then 
finish  it  as  directed  for  thick  mock-turtle.  No.  140  a. 

No.  142.— OX-TAIL  SOUP. 

Cut  up  an  ox-tail  through  the  joints ;  boil  the  pieces 

for  ten  pdnutes  in  water — drain  and  cool  them;   and 

then  with  a  meat  saw  divide  the  larger  pieces  into  four 

— ^by  holding  the  saw  between  the  chest  and  the  edge  of 

the  table  firmly,  so  as  that,  b}^  pressing  the  pieces  of 

tail  upon  the  edge  of  the  saw,  and  then  drawing  them 

sharply  to  and  fro,  they  will  be  easily  divided.     Next, 

place  the  pieces  of  ox-tail  in  a  stewpan  with  carrot, 

onion,  celery,  garnished  bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme,  six 

cloves,  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  dozen  peppercorns;  fill 

up  with  a  gallon  of  good  stock,  or  water  (if  the  latter, 

three  pounds  of  gravy  beef  must  be  added) ;  set  them 

on  the  fire  to  boil,  skim  well,  and  then  set  the  stewpan 

to  boil  gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  until  the  pieces  ol 

tail  are  done :  this  will  take  about  two  hours.     As  soon 

as  done,  the  stock  must  be  strained  from  the  tails,  cleared 

from  all  grease,  and  after  being  clarified  (see  No.  6),  must 

he  strained  into  a  soup-pot  containing  scooped  carrots  and 

turnips,  button  onions,  and  celery  cut  in  the  same  manner 

M  for  jardiniere  soup,  No.  133,  and  being  finished  in 

exactly  the  same  way,  pour  it  into  the  soup-tureen  already 

contaiiiing  the  pieces  of  ox-tail,  previously  made  hot. 


46  --HX  OCK>KII   GUIDS.    A5D 


yo.  U3.— OX-CHEEK  SOUP. 

ITioronghly  wash  the  cheek  in  tepid  water,  and  thai 
parb.il.  «:r  seal*!  it  over  the  fire  with  a  handful  of  salt 
in  the  water ;  and  having  again  washed  the  cheek,  place 
it  in  a  stewpan  irith  carrots,  t'lmips,  celery,  four  onions 
—one  sni?k  with  twelve  cloves  — a  blade  of  mace,  twenty 
peppercoTL-s,  anl  a  garnished  banch  of  parslev,  bay-leai^ 
an  1  th\Tne :  fill  np  with  st»ock  or  water ;  boil  and  skim 
well,  and  then  set  it  to  bjil  gentlj  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  f  jr  iwb^u:  four  hours,  when  the  cheek  will  be  done 
STifficier^rly  tender  to  enable  yon  easily  to  rem»ve  the 
meat  fr>ni  the  jaw-bone :  an-l,  having  set  the  pieces  in 
press  berw-^en  two  dishes  to  beccme  cold,  proceed  to 
clarify  th^  svck  as  directed  in  No.  »?,  and  having,  with 
the  clarified  stiDck  frjm  the  ox-cheek  prepared  a  jaidi- 
niere  soujy.  No.  13  ^  cat  the  cheek  into  inch-^nare 
pieces :  put  these  in  with  the  sonp ;  boil  together  for  a 
few  minntes,  and  serve- 

Xo.  1«— MXXLIGATAWXEY  SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  np  a  dozen  onicnsi,  and  pnt  the>e  into  ft 
stewfian  with  lonr  ounces  of  butter,  and  fry  them  witli- 
out  colour  over  a  slow  fire ;  when  this  is  done,  add  six 
nnpeelird  apples  cut  in  Mioes :  and  as  soon  a«  these  have 
been  diss-  Ivel  oxer  the  nre.  mix  in  six  oonces  of  flour, 
two  la-.lesp-  cnfuls  of  curry  paste  'Crosse  and  Black- 
well's  is  best ..  ar*i  a  jroc-l  sppor-f-il  of  cnrry  powder; 
moisten  with  three  quarts  of  zo-rd  st-  ck ;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  s-.up  boils,  anl  then  set  it  U,  oontinoe 
gently  sirr.merir.^  by  the  side,  to  allow  all  crrea5e,  &c^ 
to  rl>e  to  tl:e  surface :  remove  this,  rub  the  soup  smoi>thly 
tliro'jsrli  a  sieve  or  tammy :  and  having  p-i'ured  it  into  a 
s».»uT>-r:\  add  p:ulrry.  same.  veaL  or  pork,  or  any  kind 
of  fish.  rreviou>ly  ccoked,  and  cut  into  neat  square 
pieces ;  l^i'il  totif-ther  for  a  few  mir.ures,  and  serve  with 
plain  b:/ilo«i  rice  in  a  separate  di-h. 

XjC-z. — When  pieces  of  ox-taiU '■x-^-heek,  fendons  of 


HOUSEKSEPKlw'8  AND    BDTLBB's   ASSISTAlTr.  47 

veal,  calTs  brains,  tails  or  feet,  rabbit,  &c.,  garnish  the 
soup,  it  is  then  designated  ox-tail,  &c.,  k  Tlndienne, 
or  ox-tail  sonp  in  the  Indian  fashion. 

No.  145~DUCHESS  SOUP. 

Mix  two  ounces  of  Bermuda  arrowroot  with  half  a 

tumbler  of  cold  water,  and  pour  this  into  a  stewpan 

containing  a  quart  of  good  consomm^,  No  4;  stir  this 

over  the  fire  until  it  has  boiled  gently  for  about  ten 

minutes,  and  then  pour  it  into  a  soup-tureen  containing 

small  neatly -cut  inch  lengths  of  roasted  or  boiled  poultry 

or  game. 

No.  146.-€ALF'8  TAILS  SOUP. 

Cut  up  two  calves'  tails  into  pieces  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  long ;  place  these  in  a  stewpan  with  a  carrot,  an 
onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  celery,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
half  a  bay-leaf  and  thyme,  a  small  bit  of  mace  and  four 
shalots  ;  fill  up  with  two  quarts  of  stock ;  and  boil  vejy 
gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
half,  when  the  pieces  of  tail  will  be  done.     They  must 
then  be  strained  from  the  stock,  washed  in  cold  water, 
drained,  and  set  aside  ;  while  their  stock  must  bo  placed 
in  a  stewpan  with  six  ounces  of  white  thickening,  No. 
10,  stirred  over  the  fire,  until  it  boils,  allowed  to  throw 
up  slowly  by  the  side  of  the  stove,  to  remove  all  grease, 
&c.;  skimmed,  and  strained  into  a  soup-pot  containing 
the  pieces  of  calfs  tails  and  a  few  small  forcemeat  que- 
nelles.   Five  minutes  before  dinner-time,  having  first 
made  the  soup  hot,  stir  gently  into  it  a  leason  of  four 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  gill  of  cream,  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  very 
little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  an  ounce  of  grated 
Pannesan  cheese ;  and  when  the  soup  has  been  stirred 
over  the  fire  for  three  minutes  longer,  serve. 

No.  147.— CALF'S  FEET  SOUP. 

This  Boup  is  made  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  the 
preceding,  the  only  difference  being  that  calfs  f«^ei 
DiQsthe  substituted  for  calf's  tails. 


18  TUX  0O0K*8   6UIDX,    AHO 

No.  148.--GKOUSE  SOUP. 

Eoast  off  two  grouse  or  black  game,  and  while  tLej 
are  roasting,  cnt  np  small  two  carrots,  a  head  of  celery, 
two  onions,  two  ounces  of  raw  ham,  a  bay-leaf^  thyme, 
and  parsley,  six  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  four  shalots; 
and  fry  these  ingredients  with  a  piece  of  butter,  of  a 
brown  colour,  in  a  stewpan.  By  this  time,  the  gionae 
will  be  done ;  cut  out  the  fillets  and  put  them  away  in  a 
plate ;  pound  the  carcases  thoroughly  in  a  mortar,  and  add 
them  to  the  fried  vegetables,  and  half  a  pound  of  brown 
thickening,  No.  9 ;  moisten  with  two  quarts  of  good 
stock ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  soup  boils ;  allow  it  to 
clear  off  the  grease  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  twen^ 
minutes ;  remove  this,  and  then  rub  the  soup  through  a 
tammy  in  the  usual  way  on  a  dish.  The  soup  being 
passed  and  poured  into  a  soup-pot,  add  the  fillets  of  the 
grouse  cut  into  thick  shreds,  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  small 
pinch  of  cayenne ;  make  it  hot  by  stirring  it  over  the 
fire ;  skim  it,  and  serve. 

Note, — Pheasants,  partridges,  larks,  woodcocks,  snipes, 
rabbits,  &c.,  prepared  in  the  manner  indicated  for  TnA.lnwg 
grouse  soup,  will  prove  equally  delicious. 

No.  149.-HAEE  SOUP. 

For  the  preparation  of  this  most  excellent  soup, 
proceed  as  directed  in  No.  148,  using  for  the  purpose 
hare  instead  of  grouse;  and,  indeed,  where  excessive 
economy  is  required,  water  may  be  used  instead  of  stock,  * 
on  account  of  the  greater  quantity  of  meat  contained 
in  a  hare.  Bed  wine  is  best  adapted  for  finishing  hare 
soup. 

No.  150.— PEA  SOUP. 

Soak  a  quart  of  split-peas  over  night,  and  next  day 
wash  them  in  two  waters,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  carrot,  celery,  onions,  half  a  pound  of  raw  ham  or 
lean  baccn ;   moisten  with  three  quarts  of  broth,  boii. 


HOUSEESHPXBS  AND   fiUTLEB  8  ASSISTANT.  49 

skim,  and  set  tHe  peas  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  con- 
tinne  gently  simmering  for  about  two  hours  and  a  half, 
«rhen  the  peas  will  probably  be  dissolved  to  a  pulp  ; 
rub  this  through  a  tammy ;  pour  the  pur^e  into  a  soup- 
l)ot ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  boils ;  remove  it  to  the 
side  to  throw  up  the  skum ;  remove  this  as  it  rises ; 
season  with  a  little  pepper,  and  salt  if  necessary ;  stir  in 
a  pat  of  butter,  and  send  1o  table  with  fried  crusts,  or 
toasted  bread  cut  into  small  squares,  and  bruised  dry 
mint  separately. 

NcU. — Peas  soup  may  be  prepared  more  economically 
by  putting  a  piece  of  ssdt-pork  about  two  pounds  weight 
in  with  the  peas  and  vegetables,  and  following  in  all 
other  respects  the  process  indicated  above ;  the  pork, 
when  done,  may  be  served  as  part  of  the  dinner. 

No.  151.— GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Prepare  a  quart  of  large  peas,  a  good  handful  of 

paisley,  the  same  of  green  onions,  and  two  haudfuls  of 

green  mint ;  boil  these  in  three  pints  of  water  with  a 

bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  and  as  soon  as  the  peas 

are  done,  drain  their  liquor  into  a  pan  and  resei-ve  it ; 

pomid  the  peas  in  a  mortar ;  mix  them  with  the  liquor 

tbepeas  were  boiled  in ;  rub  through  the  tammy  or  sieve, 

and  pour  the  pur^e  into  a  soup-pot.     ^Vhen  about  to  send 

to  table,  make  the  soup  hot  by  stirring  it  over  the  fiie 

without  allowing  it  to  boil ;  add  a  pat  of  butter,  a  little 

pepper  and  salt,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  about 

two  ounces  of  glaze ;  serve  hot,  with  fried  crusts  on  a 

plate,  separately. 

A'ofe. — ^The  fried  crusts  are  prepared  as  follows :  viz., 
-"take  a  piece  of  the  crumb  of  a  stale  half-quartern 
loaf,  Bay  a  fourth  part,  and  cut  this  into  slices  less  than 
»  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  again  cut  up  these  slices 
into  very  even  small  squares ;  these  must  be  fried  in  a 
*tewpaa,with  about  an  ounce  of  butter,  over  the  fire — 
care  being  taken  to  toss  them  lightly  and  almost  con- 
tinuously  while  they  are  being  fried ;  and  when  they 

E 


50  THX  oook's  guidx,  ahb 

asinine  a  light  golden-brown  shade,  drain  o£f  the  lmttor« 
and  place  them  upon  clean  paper  to  absorb  the  greaaa 

No.  152.— ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Break  off  all  that  is  tender  from  a  bundle  of  grem 
sprue  asparagus,  and  put  this  in  a  large  pan  with  half 
a  peck  of  fresh-gathered  spinach,  a  large  handful  of 
parsley,  the  same  of  spring  onions,  and  having  washed 
these  in  two  waters,  and  dbrained  them  in  a  sieye,  pro- 
ceed to  boil  them  in  nearly  two  quarts  of  water,  witii  a 
bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt;  and,  as  soon  as  the 
asparagus  are  done,  strain  off  the  liquor,  to  be  kept  in 
reserve ;  bruise  the  asparagus,  &c.,  in  a  mortar ;  add 
this  to  the  liquor,  and  having  rubbed  the  pur^  through 
a  tammy,  pour  it  into  a  soup-pot ;  and  when  about  to 
send  it  to  table,  add  three  ounces  of  glaze,  two  ounoea 
of  flour  kneaded  with  the  same  quantity  of  butter,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  white  sugar ; 
stir  the  soup  over  the  fire  until  hot,  without  allowing 
it  to  boil;  and  serve  with  fried  crusts,  No.  151,  sepa> 
rately. 

No.  153.-<5ABBOT  SOUP  A  LA  CBESSY. 

Shave  off  the  red  part  of  twelve  large  carrots,  and  put 
it  in  a  stewpan  with  four  onions,  two  heads  of  celerjr, 
four  ounces  of  raw  ham,  and  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  few 
peppercorns,  and  a  quart  of  water ;  put  the  lid  on  dose, 
and  net  this  to  simmer  gently  for  two  hours  over  a  alow 
fire.  At  the  end  of  this  time  the  carrots  will  be  done 
quite  soft ;  the  stock  must  be  drained  from  them,  and 
kept  in  re8er\"e,  while  the  carrots,  &c.,  are  first  broiaed 
in  a  mortar,  and  being  added  to  their  liquor  and  a  quart 
of  stock,  must  be  rubbed  through  a  tammy,  poured  into 
a  soup-pot,  stirred  over  the  fire  to  boil,  and  placed  by 
the  side  to  clear  itself  of  all  grease,  <&o.,  which  must  be 
removed  with  a  spoon  as  it  rises  to  the  surface ;  and 
when  the  pur^e  has  gently  boiled  in  this  way  for  a 
q nailer  of  an  hour,  add  a  bit  of  glaze,  a  dessert-spoonfii] 


flOUSEEEXFflB's  AJXD  BTTTLBB's  ASSISTANT.  51 

of  sugar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  if  necessary,  and 
serve  with  fried  orusts,  m  a  plate. 

Note, — In  nearly  ali  (^ases  where  glaze  is  recommended 
to  he  added  when  finishing  a  soup  or  a  sauce,  its  use 
may  he  dispensed  with  when  extreme  economy  is  the 
order  of  the  day;  yet  it  must  he  admitted,  that  this 
omission  will  not  tend  to  improve  the  soup,  <&c.,  imless 
indeed  the  stock  is  very  good. 

No.  154.-POTATO  SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  up  a  dozen  good  potatoes  and  six 
onions,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  four  ounces 
of  batter,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  add  two 
quarts  of  white  stock,  or  water,  and  allow  the  whole  to 
b<»l  gently  over  a  slow  fire,  until  the  potatoes  are  done ; 
then  rub  them  through  a  tammy,  pour  the  soup  into  a 
soup-pot,  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  quite  hot ;  add  half  a 
pint  of  oream,  and  serve  with  fried  crusts,  separately. 

No.  155.— MUTTON  BROTH. 

Take  three  pounds  of  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  of 
mutton,  and  chop  it  into  eight  pieces ;  put  these  in  a 
stewpan  with  three  turnips,  two  leeks,  one  head  of 
celery,  a  handful  of  parsley  and  a  sprig  of  thyme  tied 
neatly  together ;  fill  up  with  a  gallon  of  water;  boil, 
skim  well,  set  tbe  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
boil  gently  for  three  hours ; — and  then  having  strained 
it  through  a  sieve,  pour  it  into  a  soup-pot  containing 
four  omices  of  parboiled  pearl  barley,  and  throe  sound 
turnips  cut  into  very  sm^l  dice ;  set  the  broth  to  boil 
again  very  gently  by  tho  side  of  the  fire  for  about  an 
hour;  remove  all  the  grease;  add  some  of  the  best  pieces 
of  the  mutton,  kept  in  reserve  for  that  purpose ;  abcertain 
that  the  seasoning  is  delicate,  and  servo. 

No.  156.— SCOTCH  BROTH. 

Prepare  some  mutton  broth  as  indicated  in  No.  155, 
but  let  it  be  made  with  rather  more  meat,  and  while 
the  broth  is  in  course  of  preparation,  cut  into  very  small 

£  2 


62  Tins  COOK'S  cnriDE,  asd 

square  dice-like  forms  the  following  vegetables :  tul, — 
two  carrots,  four  turnips,  four  leeks,  two  heads  of  celerjr, 
and  two  onions ;  and  having  placed  these  in  a  soup-pot 
with  either  six  ounces  of  parboiled  Scotch  barley  or 
rice,  add  thereto  the  strained  mutton  broth;  boil  the 
whole  together  gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  about 
an  hour ;  skim  off  the  grease,  &c.;  ascertain  that  the  sea- 
soning is  palatable,  and  serve. 

No.  157.— HODGE-PODGE. 

Prepare  the  mutton  broth  as  directed  in  the  preced- 
ing recipes,  and  in  addition  to  its  contents,  add  a  pint 
of  green  peas.  Allow  the  soup  to  boil  gently  until  the 
ingredients  are  thoroughly  done,  then  mix  in  with  them 
a  pint  of  pur^e  of  spinach  and  parsley ;  taste  to  ascertain 
that  the  seasoning  be  correct,  and  sei-ve  quite  hot. 

No.  158.-KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL  AND  BICE  SOUP. 

Take  a  good-sized  knuckle  of  veal,  cut  it  into  six 
pieces,  sawing  the  bones  through  neatly.  Place  the 
pieces  in  a  small  stock-pot ;  fill  up  with  common  broth 
or  water ;  boil  and  skim  well ;  add  carrot,  onion,  turnip, 
and  celery,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  salt ;  and  having 
allowed  this  to  boil  very  gently  for  about  three  boon, 
remove  the  best  pieces  of  the  veal  upon  a  plate  to  be 
kept  in  reserve ;  strain  the  broth  into  a  smaller  sonp- 

Eot,  already  containing  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  par- 
oiled  rice ;  boil  together  for  half  an  hour ;  add  the 
pieces  of  veal  kept  in  reserve ;  skim  off  all  grease  from. 
the  soup,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  159.— COCKY-LEEKY. 

Truss  and  boil  a  fowl  in  three  pints  of  light-coloured 
stock,  and  when  done,  cut  the  fowl  up  into  neat  pieces 
and  let  these  bo  kept  in  reserve  between  two  plates'  to 
prevent  them  from  becoming  dried  up.  Next  add  '* 
broth  which  the  fowl  has  been  boiled  in,  to  a 


i 

t 

I 

\ 


HOUSEKSXPlBffl  AND  BUTLIb'b  ASSISTANT.  68 

white  leeks  out  into  inoli  lengths,  and  half  a  pound  oi 
parlK)iled  rice ;  season  with  a  little  mignionette  pepper, 
and  salt  if  necessary,  boil  together  for  half  an  hour  and 
serve  hot,  with  the  pieces  of  fowl  in  the  cocky-leeky. 

Note. — ^This  soup  is  an  exceUent  stomachic,  and  is 
capable  of  curing  a  severe  cold. 

No.  IGO.— ONION  POBBIDGE. 

Take  a  Spanish  onion  as  big  as  you  can  procure, 
peel  and  split  it  into  quarters,  and  put  these  into  a 
small  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  water,  a  pat  of  butter,  and 
a  litte  salt ;  boil  genuy  for  half  an  hour ;  add  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  and  eat  the  porridge  just  before  retiring  to 
bed.  rhis  is  also  an  excellent  remedy  for  colds,  and 
was  imparted  to  me  by  a  jolly,  warm-hearted  Yorkshire 
farmer. 

No.  161.— BONNE  FEMME  SOUP. 

Shred  fine  the  following  ingredients :  viz., — a  cu- 
cumber, four  lettuces,  one  onion,  and  a  handful  of 
chervil ;  place  these  in  a  small  soup-pot  with  two  pats 
of  batter,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  over 
a  slow  fire  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  a  good  spoon- 
M  of  flour ;  moisten  with  throe  pints  of  good  white  veal 
stock,  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  soup  boils,  and  then  set 
it  by  the  side  to  boil  very  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
^^Tien  about  to  send  the  soup  to  table,  make  it  hot,  and 
8tir  into  it  a  leason  of  six  yolks  of  eggs,  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar. 

No.  162.— PALESTINE  SOUP. 

First  peel  and  then  slice  up  a  peck  of  Jerusalem  arti- 
chokes, four  onions,  one  head  of  celery;  and  having 
placed  these  in  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter 
and  three  pints  of  wbite  veal  stock,  season  with  nutmeg, 
ppper,  salt,  and  one  ounce  of  sugar ;  boil  gently  for  an 
flour,  rub  through  the  tammy  or  a  sieve ;  remove  the 


54  THE  OOOK'8  guide,  ASD 

pnrde  into  a  stewpan;  stir  it  over  tlie  fire  to  ma 
not ;  add  a  pint  of  cream,  and  serve  with  £'ied  a 
separately. 

No.  163.— WHITE  CELEEY  SOUP. 

Slice  np  fine  six  heads  of  celery,  fonr  onions, 
fonr  ounces  of  raw  ham ;  put  these  into  a  stewpan 
four  ounces  of  butter  and  a  pmt  of  white  stoc] 
water ;  simmer  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  nntiJ 
celery  becomes  quite  soft ;  then  add  half  a  ponn 
flour,  nux  together,  moisten  with  a  quart  of  good 
stock,  stir  the  soup  over  the  fire  for  twenty  mini 
mb  the  pur^e  through  a  tammy  into  a  dish,  and  hs 
poured  it  into  a  soup-pot,  make  it  hot ;  add  half  a 
of  cream,  and  serve  with  fried  crusts,  separately. 

No.  164.— TUENIP  SOUP. 

The  process  is  the  same  as  for  making  celeiy  i 
No.  163,  merely  substituting  turnips  for  celery. 

No.— 165.  MACAKONI  SOUP.   . 

Cut  some  boiled  macaroni  into  inch  lengths,  anc 
these  into  a  soup-pot  containing  one  or  more  quai 
good  clear  consomme ;  boil  gently  for  five  minutes, 
serve  hot,  with  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cl 
separately  on  a  plate. 

No.  166.— VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Set  a  quart,  or  more,  of  good  clear  stock  to  boil, 
then  stir  in,  as  it  continues  to  boil  gently  by  the  si( 
the  stove,  about  six  ounces  of  vermicelli,  lightly  hn 
in  order  to  prevent  too  long  filaments  hanging  ove] 
sides  of  the  spoon  as  it  is  carried  to  the  mouth,  whi) 
as  unpleasant  to  the  consumer  as  it  is  doubtless  to 
beholder.  When  the  soup  has  boiled  for  ten  mini 
kerve  hot,  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 


HOUSSfCBBPEB'S  iLND  BUTLEb's  ASSISTAlTr.  66 

No.  167.— ITALIAN  PASTE  SOUP. 

Prepare  this  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  using  for  this 
purpose  any  kind  of  Italian  pastes,  which  are  to  be  pro- 
cured in  greatest  perfection  at  Crosse  and  Blackwell's 
warehouse,  Soho-square. 

Note. — When  it  happens  that  any  portion  of  either  of 
the  foregoing  soups,  made  of  any  kind  of  Italian  pastes, 
—sack  as  macaroni,  vermicelli,  lasagnes,  <&c.,  are  left 
from  a  previous  day's  dinner,  such  may  be  easily  con- 
verted into  a  white  soup,  by  merely  adding  a  leason  of 
four  yolks  of  eggs  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a 
spoonfol  of  grated  cheese. 

No.  167a.— RAVIOLIS  SOUP. 

First,  prepare  the  raviolis  in  manner  following :  viz., 
—mix  half  a  pound  of  flour  with  two  raw  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  and  a  small  pat  of  butter,  and  this  done,  roll  out 
the  paste  as  thin  as  a  sheet  of  paper ;  and  while  the 
paste  is  being  prepared,  get  ready  the  following  mix- 
ture:— two  ounces  of  roasted  poultry  or  game,  one 
ounce  of  ham,  four  cleaned  anchovies,  one  ounce  of 
cooked  spinach,  one  shalot,  three  hard  yolks  of  eggs, 
two  raw  yolks,  four  ounces  of  hard  curd ;  season  highly 
with  nutmeg  and  pepper,  and  one  ounce  of  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese, — no  salt.  Next,  with  a  paste-brush  slightly 
moisten  the  rolled-out  paste  before  you,  and  having 
placed  small  round  portions  of  the  raviolis  mixture  at  an 
inch  and  a  half  distance  from  each  other,  lift  the  edge 
of  the  paste  left  sufficiently  wide  for  that  purpose,  upon 
these;  fasten  each  round  the  edge  by  pressing  tightly 
with  the  edge  of  the  thumb,  and  stamp  the  raviolis  out 
^th  a  small  fluted  tin  cutter,  and  place  them  on  a 
floured  baking-sheet  to  dry.  Having  used  up  the  paste 
and  mixture  in  this  manner,  and  when  the  raviolis 
liave  become  dry  over  their  surface,  throw  or  drop 
them  into  boiling  water,  in  order  to  parboil  them  for 
ahout  six  minutes ;    and  having  drained  them  upon  a 


66  THB  cook's  GX7IDB,  ASD 

hair  sieve,  add  to  them  some  good  strong  game  stock; 
season  with  a  glass  of  madeira  and  a  pinch  of  mignio- 
nette  pepper,  and  serve  hot :  this  is  one  of  the  verj 
best  soups  it  is  possible  to  send  to  a  good  table. 

No.  168.— LORD  MAECU8  HILL'S  SOUP. 

Grease  the  bottom  of  a  four-quart  sized  stewpan  with 
an  ounce  of  butter,  and  place  therein  five  pounds  of 
knuckle  of  veal  and  half  a  pound  of  raw  ham ;  to  these 
add  two  carrots,  two  onions,  and  one  head  of  celery ; 
moisten  with  a  quart  of  broth,  and  set  the  whole  to  boil 
down  sharply  until  reduced  to  a  glaze ;  then  fill  up  with 
light  broth  or  water ;  boil  and  skim, — and  when  the  stock 
has  boiled  for  about  two  hours,  strain  it  off.  While 
this  is  going  on,  shred  four  large  lettuces,  a  handful  of 
spring  onions,  two  cucimibers  peeled,  and  a  handful  of 
chervil ;  and  having  put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  two 
ounces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  over  the  fire  for 
ten  miQutes ;  add  half  a  pound  of  flour,  mix  together, 
moisten  with  the  stock,  boil  gently  on  the  comer  of  the 
fire  for  half  an  hour,  remove  the  scum,  add  half  an 
ounce  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  boiled  green  peas,  and  serve. 

No.  1C9.-L0BSTEE  SOUP. 

First,  cut  up  very  small  the  following  ingredients : 
viz., — a  carrot,  onion,  celery,  four  shalots,  bay-leaf,  and 
thyme,  and  some  parsley  ;  fry  these  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  piece  of  butter  until  they  are  lightly  browned ;  then 
add  six  ounces  of  flour,  mix  well ;  moisten  with  three 
pints  of  good  stock  (or  water  if  for  meagre  soup)  ;  stir 
over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  set  it  by  the  side  to 
simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour :  while  this  part  of  the 
preparations  is  going  on,  break  up  a  fresh  cooked  hen 
lobster ;  remove  the  meat  from  the  tail  and  claws,  and 
out  this  into  neat  square  pieces,  to  be  kept  in  reserve ; 
all  the  remainder  of  the  lobster  and  shell,  together  with 
a  little  spawn,  must  be  well  bruised  in  a  mortar,  and 
stirred  into  the  soup  as  it  boils ;  and  five  minutes  after 


housskekpsb'b  akd  butleb's  AssifiTAirr.  67 

lot  the  whole  be  rubbed  through  a  tammy,  poured  into 
a  soup-pot,  made  hot,  and  skimmed ;  seasoned  with  a 
glass  of  sherry,  a  little  Hai-vey,  lemon-juice,  anchovy, 
and  cayenne ;  and  poured  into  the  soup-tureen  already 
containing  the  cnt-up  lobster,  and  some  small  quenelles. 

No.  170.-CBAB  SOUP. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  white  stock, 
water,  or  milk,  with  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  an  ounce  of  butter ;  and,  while  the  nco  is  being 
very  slowly  simmered,  break  up  a  fresh-boiled  crab, 
separating  carefully  all  the  white  meat  from  the  claws, 
&c.,  which  must  be  kept  in  reserv-e ;  pound  all  the 
yellow  pith  from  the  body-shell  with  the  boiled  rice, 
and  having  mixed  the  whole  with  a  quart  of  hot  stock, 
rub  it  through  a  tammy ;  pour  it  into  a  soup-pot,  add 
the  white  meat  from  the  claws,  season  with  a  small 
pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  little  anchovy,  and  a  pint  oi 
cream;  stir  over  the  fire  tnitil  quite  hot,  without 
allowing  it  to  boil,  and  servo. 

No.  171.— CRAYFISH  SOUP. 

Prepare  the  sauce  for  this  soup  in  the  same  manner 

as  for  lobster  soup.  No.  169.      Boil  three  dozen  crayfish 

with  a  glass  of  sherry  and  a  little  stock  ;  and  when  done, 

strain  their  liquor  to  the  sauce  ;  pick  the  tails  fiom  the 

shells,  and  keep  them  in  reserve ;  clear  all  the  pith  from 

the  body-shells  without  breaking  them,  and  keep  these 

also  in  reserve  ;  pound  the  shells,  pith  and  claws,  add 

this  to  the  sauce,  and,  having  rubbed  it   through  the 

tammy,  pour  the  soup  into  o  small  soup  pot.     Fill  the 

body-shells   with    a    little    forcemeat    .seasoned    with 

chopped  parsley  and  sbalot,  and  a  little  anchovy,  and 

bake  them  on  a  baking-sheet  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes. 

All  this  being  ready,  make  the  soup  hot  by  stirring  it 

over  the  fire;    skim  it;    season   with   lobster  butter, 

^0- 129,  a  little  cayenne,  lemon-juice,  anchovy,  and  a 

glass  of  sherry,  and  pour  it  into  the  tureen  containing 

the  tails  and  bodies  of  the  crayfish,  and  sei-ve  hot. 


58  THE  cook's  9CWm,  AMD 

Na  172.— PRAWX  BOUF, 

TliiB  15  made  in  Ike  sune  maimer  as  crajfiah  soap, 
Xo.  171,  using  fifty  prawns  for  the  porpoee  instead  d 
crayfisiL 

Xo.  173.— VICTOBIA  SOUP. 

Wash  and  scald  half  a  pound  of  Frankfort  peari 
barley,  and  put  this  into  a  stewpan  -with  three  pints  of 
good  white  veal  stock,  and  simmer  it  Tery  genuy  over 
a  slow  fire  for  an  hoar  and  a  half ;  by  which  time  the 
barlev  will  be  nearlv  dissolTed ;  remove  a  third  of  it 
into  a  small  soup-pot:  rub  the  remainder  through  a 
tammy  or  sieve,  ponr  it  to  tbe  whole  barley ;  add  half  a 
pint  of  cream ;  season  with  a  little  salt ;  stir  it  over  the 
fire  until  hot,  and  serve. 

This  soup  may  be  prepared  also  with  rice ;  they  are, 
or  at  least  were^  the  only  soups  eaten  by  the  Queen 
wben  I  had  the  honour  of  waiting  on  Her  Majesty. 

No.  174-— WHITE  SOUP  A  LA  BEINE. 

Truss  a  fowl ;  put  it  on  the  spit,  and  set  it  down  before 
the  fire  to  roa£t ;  and  while  the  fowl  is  roasting,  wash 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  rice,  and  boil  it  very  gently 
in  three  pints  of  white  read  stock  fur  about  an  hour. 
Eemove  all  the  meat  from  the  fowl ;  chop  and  pound 
this  in  a  mortar,  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a  gill  of 
broth ;  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  reduced  to  a  smooth 
pulp,  add  the  rice  ;  pound  all  together ;  take  this  up  into 
a  stewpan,  moisten  with  a  quart  of  broth  (made  with 
the  bones  of  the  fowl  and  a  pound  of  veal,  i^dth  carrot, 
celer}%  and  onion)  ;  rub  the  puree  through  a  tammy,  and 
when  this  is  done,  pour  the  soup  into  a  small  soup-pot ; 
stir  it  over  the  fire  until  hot,  season  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  mix  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  serve  with 
fried  crusts  on  the  surfietce  of  the  soup. 

No.  175.— SPRING  HERBS  SOUP. 

Take  two  lettuces,  a  little  sorrel,  a  handful  of  pun- 
lain,  dandelion,  and  chervil ;  shred  all  these ;  wash  them 


housxkxbpkb'8  and  butlbb's  assistant.  59 

clean,  ard  having  placed  them  in  a  stewpan  with  an 
ounce  of  bntter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  stew  the  herbs 
over  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  add  a  tahlespoonful  of 
flour,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  light  veal  stock ;  stir  over 
the  fire  to  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  and 
then  mix  in  a  leason  of  four  yolks  of  eggs,  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

Note. — This  medicinal  soup  possesses  great  efficacy  in 
cooling  a  heated  state  of  the  blood. 

No.  176.— BUSSIAN  SOUP.  OR  TSCHI 

First,  cut  two  large  onions  into  small  dice,  and  shred 
a  small  cabbage  finely,  and  chop  these  shreds  across  to 
shorten  the  filaments  ;  fry  all  this  in  a  stewpan  with 
two  ounces  of  bntter,  until  it  assumes  a  light  colour ;  then 
mix  in  two  ounces  of  flour ;  moisten  with  three  pints  of 
good  brown  stock ;  season  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  having  stirred  the  soup  over  the  fire  till  it  boils, 
set  it  by  the  side  to  boil  gently  for  about  half  an  hour ; 
then  add  a  glass  of  French  white  wine,  some  ronghly- 
chopped  tarragon  and  chervil,  and  pour  it  into  a  soup- 
tureen  containing  about  two  ounces  of  lean  ham  cut  into 
small  shreds,  and  two  dozen  small  sausages,  made  as 
follows :  viz.,  to  six  ounces  of  lean  beef  add  four 
ounces  of  suet,  and  having  chopped  and  pounded  these 
together,  season  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  chopped 
parsley," and  thyme;  add  one  whole  egg;  mix  well 
together  by  pounding  ;  roll  out  the  sausage-meat  into  the 
form  of  small  round  balls,  and  fry  these  in  a  sautapan 
with  a  little  butter 

No.  177— SPANISH  SOUP. 

Spread  a  little  butter  over  the  bottom  of  a  four-quart- 
fiized  stewpan ;  upon  this  lay  four  onions  cut  into  slices, 
and  then  four  pounds  of  gravy -beef  cut  in  thick  slices, 
half  a  pound  of  raw  ham  or  lean  bacon,  an  old  partridge 
or  pheasant ;  add  two  carrots,  celery,  and  parsley  roots, 
a  Day-leaf,  thyme,  and  a  small  clove  of  garlic,  tied  up 


60  THS  CX>0S'8  GUIDB,  ABTD 

tightly,  six  cloves  and  a  bit  of  niaoe;  moisten 
a  qnart  of  stock,  or  water,  boil  down  to  a  glaze  over  a 
brisk  fire ;  fill  up  with  stock,  or  water ;  boil,  skim  well, 
and  when  the  stock  has  simmered  gently  by  the  side  of 
the  fire  for  two  hours,  strain  it  off.  After  removing 
all  the  grease,  let  it  be  poured  into  a  soup-pot  containr 
ing  carrots  and  turnips,  scooped  in  the  form  of  olives, 
some  celery  and  leeks  shred  thickly,  a  pint  of  garban9as 
(Spanish  peas)  previously  soaked  and  boiled,  and  a  de»- 
6ort-s]>oonful  of  Spanish  sweet  red  pepper ;  boil  gently 
iintil  the  vegetables  are  done ;  then  add  the  partridge  or 
pheasant,  cut  into  neat  ]neces,  also  the  ham,  and  some 
small  pork  sausages  which  have  been  boiled  in  the  stock. 
yofc. — This  substantial  soup,  which  in  Spain  is  called 
**  011a  Podrida,"  forms  of  itself  an  excellent  dinner. 

No.  178.— PROVENCAL  SOUP,  OR  BOUILLABAISSE. 

Divide  two  Portugjil  onions  into  quarters,  and  having 
shred  these,  fry  them  in  a  stewj^an  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  salad-oil  until  the  onions  acquii'e  a  light  colour ; 
then  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Spanish  sweet  red  pepper, 
a  little  salt,  and  a  quart  of  good  stock,  or  water :  boil  to- 
gether for  three  minutes,  and  then  add  some  small  slioea 
of  fillets  of  any  kind  of  fish  most  agreeable  or  oon- 
vcniout ;  boil  these  for  a  few  minutes,  and  seive  the 
bouillalmisso  with  the  crusts  cut  from  a  French  roll 
fried  in  a  little  oil  or  butter. 

Kote, — For  economy  sake,  or  to  suit  the  taste  of  those 
who  prefer  eating  the  fish  separately  from  the  soup,  slices 
of  any  fivsh  of  Lirger  size  may  be  cooked  in  the  soup,  and 
served  in  a  dish,  with  one  of  the  numerous  >'arieties  of 
sauces  contained  in  this  work. 

No.  179— \^GETABLE  MARROW  60LT. 

Split,  peel  and  remove  the  seedy  core  from  six  vege- 
table-marrows, place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces 
of  butter,  nutmeg,  ]>epper  and  salt,  and  four  lumps  oi 
sugar;  moisten  with  a  pint  of  white  stock,  or  water; 


HOUSBRBEFEB'S  Aim  BTTTLBB'S  A8ST8TA1TT.  61 

boil  gently  for  half  an  hour,  rub  the  puree  through  a  hair 
sieve  or  tammy,  pour  it  into  a  soup-pot,  add  a  pint  of  good 
stock,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  stir  it  over  the  fii'e  until 
quite  hot,  and  serve  with  fried  crusts. 

No.  180.~CHESTNUT  SOU% 

Scald,  peel,  and  scrape  fifty  large  chestnuts ;  put  these, 
into  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  an  onion,  four 
lumps  of  sugar,  and  a  little  popper  and  salt ;  and  simmer 
the  whole  over  a  slow  fire  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour;  then  bruise  the  chestnuts  in  a  mortar  ;  remove  tho 
pulp  into  a  stewpan ;  add  a  quart  of  good  brown  gravy, 
and  having  rubbed  the  purde  through  a  tammy,  pour  it 
into  a  stewpan ;  make  it  hot,  and  serve  with  fiied  crusts. 

No.  181.— GERMAN  SOUP. 

Take  one  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  head  of  celery,  parsnip, 

an  onion,  or  tbe  white  parts  of  spring  onions,  and  either 

out  or  scoop  all  these  into  very  small  squares  or  olive 

shapes ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter, 

a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  i'ry 

them  lightly  over  a  slow  fire  ;  then  add  two  lettuc^CH  and 

a  little  tarragon  and  chervil  shred  coarsely ;  stir  these 

again  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and  mix  in  two 

ounces  of  flour  ;  moisten  with  three  pints  of  good  white 

stock,  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour,  incorporate  a  leason 

of  four  yolks,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  without  boiling ; 

ascertain  that  the  seasoning  is  correct,  and  serve. 

•  No.  182.— ITALIAN  SOUP. 

Half  roast  either  a  fowl,  pheasant,  duck,  partridge,  or 
a  rabbit ;  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  four  ounces  of 
Wfr  bam,  two  onions,  six  ripe  red  tomatas,  a  head  of 
celer}',  a  carrot  sliced  up,  four  shalots,  a  bay-leaf  and 
tbyme,  four  cloves,  a  small  bit  of  mace,  and  twelve 
peppercorns ;  moisten  with  a  pint  of  stock  and  a  glass 
of  wine ;  hoi]  down  to  a  glaze ;  fill  up  with  two  quarts  of 


G2 

^tock,  or  wmtssr ;  IkoI  ^faaOr  on  the  oomefr  of  the  lire  fa 

ua.  bour;  skim^  and  strain  the  stock  into  a  pan ;  Teetearwe 
the  fowl,  or  whaitieveT  Ias  been  used  to  make  the  eonp, 

on  a  plate ;  pound  all  the  Tegetablee  in  a  m(»tar ;  remove 
this  pnlp  into  a  stewpan ;  moisten  with  the  stock ;  mb 
it  throngb  a  tOHmT ;  pour  the  puree  into  a  sonp-pot ;  stir 
it  over  the  £re  until  it  boils ;  let  it  throw  np  bj  the  side 
for  ten  minntes;  skim  it  welL  and  then  stir  into  the 
soup  a  paste  made  cf  three  anchoYieE,  a  few  oaperB,  and  a 
pinch  a£  oarenne  pounded  and  rubbed  throng  a  sieve ; 
and  pour  the  soup  into  the  tureen  alreadj  i^Ttti^iffiiiig 
the  fowl  cut  into  small  neat  pieoes. 

Xo.  ISS.— OYSTER  SOCP. 

Soald.  drain,  wash,  and  beard  four  dozen  oystezs ,  re* 
serving  their  liquor  in  a  pan.  Pnt  four  onnoes  of  batter 
into  a  stewpan  to  bapelx  dissolve  over  the  £ie ;  mix  in 
fonr  oimcos  of  idonr ;  moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
good  white  stock  or  miLk ;  season  with  nutmeg  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenoe^  and  a  teaspoonfiil  oi  anchovy;  add 
half  a  pint  of  cream :  siir  over  tihe  £re  for  a  quarter  of  aa 
hour's  gtXLile  boiling :  and  then,  having  cut  the  ojsteai 
eadti  into  halves,  pour  the  hot  soup  over  them  in  die 
tureen. 

Xatc^ — This  &votmte  soup  may  also  be  prepared  in 
like  mianner,  and  with  equal  chanoe  of  snoooBs^  by  ung 
oockles^  musdes.  whelks,  ^vr  oollops  for  the  pmpon; 
but  it  mu^^t  not  Ite  forgotten  that  great  care  and  nJnan 
liness  mn>t  he  observed  in  well  washing  them, 
e£Fectaal]y  to  remove  all  sand  or  gtxL 


KOUttJUUMBPBB'a   USfD  BUTLTO'S  ABSIBTAlfT.  68 


CHAPTER  IV. 

No.  184.— BREAD  PANADA. 

Steep  one  ponnd  of  tlie  crumb  of  a  new  loaf  in  tepid 
water,  and  wring  it  in  a  cloth  to  extract  the  moisture  ; 
place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a 
little  salt,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
until  it  ceases  to  adhere  to  the  stewpan,  and  forms  a 
compact  smooth  paste ;  then  place  the  panada  between 
two  plates  in  the  cool,  to  be  used  as  hereinafter  directed. 

No.  185.— QUENELLE  FOECEMEAT  OF  VEAL. 

Take  one  pound  of  lean  white  veal  cut  from  the  leg, 
or  chump  end ;  scrape  it  with  a  knife ;  pound  and  rub  it 
through  a  wire  sieve  on  to  a  plate.  Next,  place  in  a  mor- 
tar, twelve  ounces  of  the  veal  prepared  as  indicated  above, 
six  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and  eight  ounces  of  panada, 
No.  184;  pound  these  well  together ;  mix  in  gradually 
three  whole  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  white  sauce, 
and  the  yolks  of  two  others ;  season  with  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt ;  and  when  the  forcemeat  has  been  thoroughly 
mixed  by  pound  ing  it  into  a  smooth  compact  body,  take 
it  out  of  the  mortar  into  a  basin,  and  keep  it  on  the 
ice,  or  in  a  cool  place  until  required  for  use  as  herein- 
after directed. 

^^ote, — All  kinds  of  quenelle  forcemeats  are  to  bo 
prepared  accord iug  to  the  foregoing  instructions,  using 
for  the  different  varieties  the  fillets  of  fowls,  pheasants, 


6i  THB  OOOK'S  GUIDB,  AITD 

groose,  partridges,  hares,  rabbits,  &c.:  all,  or  any  of  these 
are  of  course  first  to  undergo  the  same  process  as  indi- 
cated for  the  preparation  of  veal,  and  to  be  used  in  the 
same  proportions. 


No.  186.    ^piNELLE  FOEOEMEAT  OF  WHTTINGS. 

Skin  two  largo  whitings,  scrape  off  the  flesh  with  a 
spoon,  and  force  it  through  a  wire  sieve  with  the  back 
part  of  the  bowl  of  a  wooden  spoon,  on  to  a  plate.  Next, 
to  twelve  ounces  of  the  prepared  fish,  add  eight  ounces 
of  the  panada,  No.  184,  and  six  ounces  of  fresh  butter ; 
pound  these  in  a  mortar,  adding  gradually  three  whole 
eggs  and  the  yolks  of  two  others ;  season  with  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  after  being  thoroughly  mixed  by 
further  pounding,  remove  it  into  a  basin  to  be  kept  upon 
ice  till  required  for  use. 

Note, — All  kinds  of  fish  quenelle  forcemeat  must  be 
prepared  as  indicated  for  the  composition  of  whiting 
forcement,  using  for  those  purposes  any  given  quantity 
of  salmon,  trout,  gurnet,  haddock,  or  codfish;  bearing 
in  mind  that  previously  to  mixing  the  fish  with  the 
other  ingredients,  it  must  be  forced  through  a  wire  sieve. 
The  proportions  of  panada  and  butter  are  the  same. 

No.  187.— LOBSTEB  QUENELLEa 

Take  a  fresh-boiled  hen  lobster ;  break  the  shell,  and 
remove  the  meat,  pith,  and  coral  and  spawn ;  cut  up  tho 
tail  into  neat  scollops  and  place  these  in  reserve 
in  a  small  stewpan,  with  a  little  of  the  lobster  butter. 
Next,  place  all  the  remainder  of  the  meat  and  pith  of 
the  lobster  in  a  mortar  with  the  flesh  of  a  large  whit- 
ing, four  ounces  of  butter,  and  six  ounces  of  panada. 
No.  184 ;  add  two  whole  eggs  and  two  yolks,  season  wiih 
nutmeg,  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy; 
pound  the  forcemeat  thoroughly,  and  when  well  mixed, 
remove  it  into  a  basin  to  be  used  as  hereinafter  directed* 


BOUSEKSBPKBB  AND    BUTLEr'b  ASfilBTAK'r  65 


No.  18f.— FORCEMEAT  OF  LIVER  AND  HAM.  FOR 

RAISED  PIES,  &c. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  calf  s  liver  and  fat  bacon, 
and  cut  these  in  square  pieces  tlie  size  of  a  walnut. 
First,  fry  the  pieces  of  bacon  in  a  largAtewpan,  ana 
when  about  half  done,  add  the  pieces^w  liver,  Beasuu 
with  prepared  herbaceous  seasoning.  No.  948,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  and  a  little  salt;  and  as  soon  as  the  liver  is  about 
half  done,  first  chop  fine,  and  then  pound  the  whole  in  a 
moi-tar  until  reduced  to  a  smooth  substance,  and  force 
this  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  put  it  in  a  basin  for  use. 

No.  189.--FORCEMEAT  FOR  PRESERVING  GAME. 

For  this  purpose,  bone  a  iresh-killed  hare,  and  cut 
it  into  pieces,  and  fry  these  with  equal  quantities  of 
calf  s  liver  and  fat  bacon ;  season  as  in  the  preceding 
ca8e,  and  finish  the  forcemeat  in  the  same  manner,  to  be 
used  as  will  be  herein  shown. 


No.  190.— GODTVKAU,  AN  ECONOMICAL  KIND 

OK  FORCEMEAT. 

To  half  a  pound'  of  veal — free  from  skin,  sinew,  and 
fat— add  half  a  pound  of  beef-suet ;  chop  these  very  fine  ; 
put  them  in  a  mortar ;  season  with  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  a  few  chopped  chives  and  parsley ;  pound 
all  together  thoroughly  until  mixed  into  a  smooth  com- 
pact body,  and  then  take  it  up  on  a  plate,  and  set  it  upon 
the  ice  to  rest  for  an  hour;  after  which  time,  put  it 
into  the  mortar,  and  pound  it  again  with  six  ounces  of 
clean  ice,  until  both  are  so  thoroughly  mixed  as  to  pre- 
sent a  soft,  smooth,  creamy  appearance ;  roll  this  on  the 
table  with  flour,  and,  having  divided  it  into  small  pieces, 
form  these  into  round  balls;  place  them  on  a  baking- 
iheet,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  (slack  heat)  for  five 
aiinutes ;  and  when  done,  use  them  as  herein  directed. 

F 


luii  cuoira  setidk,  urn 


DB£SSEI>  FI8H   lH    GEIsEitAL. 
Ko.  1»I.— TUBHOT,  PLAIN  B01LU>. 


'»\abh  the  turbot,  wi])e  it  tli^-,  rub  it  over  with  lh« 
jnice  of  a  lemon,  atjil  a  little  salt,  and  jiiit  it  into  a  fith- 
kettle  with  water  KufEL'icnt  to  cover  it;  aild  a  handful  of 
Kalt,  set  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  as  eoon  an  it  beginx 
to  boil,  lift  it  down  by  the  side  of  the  file,  to  cbDtinm; 
l^ntly  simmering  for  about  half  an  hour— more  or  leai, 
according  to  the  size  and  weight  of  the  fitth ;  when  done. 
>kim  the  water,  lift  the  turbot  out  carefully  npon  it> 
drainer,  slide  it  gently  off  on  to  the  dish  (.Dvered  with  c 
folded  napkin,  gainish  it  round  neatly  with  picked  par 
Kiev,  and  nend  to  table  with  cither  loWcr  uuce.  Ko.  40. 
vT  "Dutch  Rauce.  Xo.  7U. 

Vo.  I92-— TIJRIWT  A  LA  PAIIIBIKNSE. 

Uemove  tlie  backlNtne  from  a  email  turbot,  and  stiifTit 

with  forcemeat  of  whiting,  N'o.  18G  ;  then  place  it  en  a 

•untapan   or  bakin^-^hect  previouitiy   spread  with  an 


BorTMKKVBPEB'S   AND    BUTLBB'S   ASSISTANT.  G7 

ODQoe  of  butter ;  moisten  with  mushroom  juice,  a  couple 
of  glasses  of  whit«  wine,  and  some  oyster  liquor,  if 
handy ;  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  put  an  ounce 
of  butter  in  bits  all  over  the  fish,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to 
bake,  basting  it  frequently  with  its  own  liquor ;  and  when 
done  through,  remove  the  turbot  on  to  itai|lish  carefully 
with  a  iishnslice,  and  keep  it  hot  while  you  prepare  the 
following  sauce :  viz., — first,  dissolve  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire ;  add  two  ounces  of  flour, 
mix  together,  moisten  with  the  liquor  from  the  turbot, 
season  with  nutmeg,  cayenne,  lemon-juice,  a  little  an- 
chovy and  a  glass  of  sherry ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  ten 
minutes ;  then  mix  in  a  leason  of  four  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
a  gill  of  oream,  some  picked  prawns,  button  mushrooms, 
and  scalded  and  bearded  oysters,  and  a  piece  of  lobster- 
butter,  make  the  sauce  hot  without  boiling ;  pour  it  over 

the  turbot,  and  serve. 
Note, — When  you  happen  to  have  some  good  white 

sauce  ready,  it  will  be  necessary  only  to  boil  down  the 

liquor  from  the  fish,  and  add  it  to  the  sauce  with  the 

garnish. 

No.  193. -GRILLED  TURBOT  A  LA  VATEL. 

Place  the  turbot  on  a  dish ;  season  it  with  pepper  and 
salt,  lemon-juice,  and  a  little  salad-oil.  Half  an  hour 
before  dinner-time,  place  the  turbot  on  the  gridiron,  over 
a  slow  clear  fire,  to  gril  (a  double  gridiron  is  necessary 
for  this  purpose)  ;  turn  it  every  five  minutes,  and  bast  it 
by  dipping  a  paste-brush  in  the  seasoning  left  in  the 
^sh,  and  when  the  fish  is  done  through,  remove  it 
on  to  its  dish ;  and  pour  over  it  the  following  sauce : 
^, — prepare  some  muscle  sauce.  No.  42,  with  a  glass 
of  wine  and  a  leason  of  four  yolks,  and  a  gill  of  cream, 
^  garnish  the  turbot  round  with  a  border  of  boiled 
crayfish. 

No.  194.— TURBOT  A  LA  NORMANDE. 

prepare  a  turbot  as  directed  in   No.  102,  and  when 
ii«hed  up,  put  the  liquor  it  has  been  baked  in  into  a 

p  9 


08  THE   cook's   GUIDK,   AHD 

Blowpan ;  boil  it  down  to  a  fourth  part  of  its  original 
qiiautity,  and  add  it  to  some  white  matelotte  sance.  No.  87; 
\K)UT  this  over  the  turbot;  garnish  ronnd  with  heart- 
shaped  or  oval  fried  croutons  of  bread,  and  serve. 

No.  195.— TUBBOT  WITH  CREAM  AU  GBATIN. 

This  diHh  is  prepared  from  any  turbot  which  happens 
to  be  left  from  a  previous  day*8  dinner.  Kemove  the 
fish  from  tlie  bones ;  pare  off  the  black  skin,  and  cut  up 
the  pieces  into  scollops  ;  to  these  add  some  cream  becha- 
mel  sauce,  No.  1 6 ;  make  the  fish  hot  without  bruising  the 
pieces ;  pile  it  up  neatly  in  a  dish ;  shake  over  the  surface 
some  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  upon  this  pour,  say 
half  a  gill  of  good  thick  cream ;  use  the  red-hot  sala- 
niatidcr  ("see  Adams'  Illustrations)  to  colour  the  eaAee 
of  this  dibh  of  a  light-golden  brown,  and  serve  quite 
hot. 

No.  196.-TUKBOT  A  LA  BECHAMEL. 

The  remains  of  turbot  are  prepared  as  in  the  foregoiiig 
case,  with  the  addition  of  a  few  oysters  when  in  season, 
utid  aiKO  a  little  cream ;  it  is  dished  up  with  a  border  of 
jHituto  croquettes. 

X(/fe, — Scollops  of  turbot,  or  of  almost  any  other  kind 
of  fish,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  and  used  alsc 
1\>r  garnishing  vol-au-vents,  borders  of  potato,  &c. 

No.  197.— FILLETS  OF  TURBOT. 

A  small  turbot  may  be  purchased  for  this  puipoae; 
and  after  cutting  out  the  flesh}'  parts  from  the  four 
divisions  intervening  between  the  fins  and  the  back* 
bone,  divide  these  into  square  oblong  pieces,  and  place 
thorn  neatly  in  a  sautipan  with  two  ounces  of  dissolved 
butter,  popper,  salt,  and  lomon-juice;  set  them  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  over  the  fire ;  in  the 
latter  case,  the  fillets  must  be  turned  over  to  admit  of 
their  l)eing  done  on  both  sides.  The  fillets,  after  being 
drained  on  a  napkin,  must  be  dished  up  similarly  to 
cutlets,  and  sauced  over  with  either  of  the  followina 


ID     BTTTLXu'B    ABB18TAMT.  GO 

DM :  viz., — maltre-d'hdtel,  Dutch  sauoe.  ftkvigolte, 
ian,  Indian,  lobster,  Rbrimp,  oyster,  muscle,  &c,; 
ti  kind  of  sanoe  affording  a  variety,  as  well  as  being 
Able  to  conTenience. 

Nu.  198.— BBILL.  , 

.Ilia  fiah  very  mucli  lesemblee  tnrbot,  and  may  tlioiB- 
)  be  treated  in  the  same  way,  tliQ  directions  for  drosu- 
whioh  may  be  followed  in  all  particulars. 

No.  199.— JOHN  DOEY. 
Took  tbe  fish  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  be  care- 
that  it  is  not  allowed  to  boil;  as  this  fish,  which  is 
from  presenting  an  ornamental  or  pleasing  aspect,  is 
litivel^  hideous  to  behold  when  further  disfigured 
its  being  allowed  to  boil  fast  while  it  is  being  cooked. 
len  the  dory  is  done,  dish  it  up  with  care,  in  order 
i  to  break  it;  and  send  it  ti>  table  with  lobster, 
imp,  auehovy,  or  Dutch  sauce. 

ffbte. — Dories  may  also  be  stufTod,  and  baked  or 
Ued,  and  served  with  brown  caper  suiico,  or  ]iiquaiito 
loe. 

No.  200,-aALMON.  PLAIN. 


Pot  the  salmon,  whether  whole,  in  parts,  or  in  slices, 
I  boil  in  water  with  salt;  but  remember  never  to 
se  vinegar  when    dressing  salmon  or  trout,  as    th.it 


70  THE  OOOK'8  OUIDK,   A5I> 

dcbtroys  both  colour  and  flavour.  As  soon  as  the  Mi 
is  done,  lift  it  out  of  tlie  water  to  drain  for  a  niurate ; 
disb  it  np  on  a  folded  napkin ;  gamish  round  with  picked 
parsley,  and  serve  with  either  of  the  following  saiices. 
viz., — lobster,  shrimp,  anchovy,  Dutch,  or  green  parsley 
sance. 

"So.  201.— GRILLED  SALMON. 

Procure  one  or  more  slices  of  salmon  about  an  inch 
thick,  rub  them  over  with  salad-oil,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  and  having  placed  them  on  a  gridiron 
over  a  clear  fire  to  broil,  carefully  turn  the  slices  of 
salmon  over  every  five  minutes,  basting  occasionallj 
either  with  a  little  butter  or  oil,  according  to  taste ;  and 
when  the  salmon  is  done  through,  which  will  be  aooom 
plished  in  about  half  an  hour,  and  may  be  ascertained 
by  finding  that  on  a  little  pressure  the  bone  easflj 
sepirates  from  the  fish,  it  is  to  be  placed  on  its  dish, 
and  either  of  the  following  sauces  poured  over  it  and 
served  :  brown  capers,  Proven9ale,  bourguignotte,  brown 
butter  sauce,  or  Italian  sauce. 

No.  202.^  SALMON  A  LA  TABTABE. 

The  slices  of  salmon  are  to  be  grilled  as  in  the  fon 
>;oing  case ;   and  when  done,  placed  on  a  dish  neat^ 
overlapping  each  other.    Some  Tartar  sauce.  No.  38, 
Pi-ince  of  \\  ales'  sauce.  No.  81,  must  be  previously  pom 
into  the  dish,  and  elegantly  garnished  round  with  Ind' 
pickles,  anchovies,  olives,  capers,  and  gherkins. 

No.  203.-MATELOTTE  OF  SALMON. 

The  inferior  parts  of  the  fish  suit  this  purpose : 
them  be  cut  into  slices,  and  after  being  boiled  ii 
usual  way,  dished  up  ;  pour  some  matelotte  sauce,  N 
over  the  salmon;  gamish  with  mushrooms,  qucr 
crayfish,  and  fried  crdutons  of  bread,  and  send  to 
rrpon  ordinary  occasions  those  expensive  adjunct 
of  course  be  dispensed  with. 


HOirHKKREi'KU'8   AND    BUTLEK'S    ASSJS'iANT.  ll 

No.  204. -SALMON  A  LA  REGP:NCF.. 

For  this  purpose  procure  a  small  salmon-peel  weighing 
aboat  six  pounds ;  truss  it  in  the  form  of  an  S,  boil  it  off 
some  hours  before  dinner-time,  and  having  removed  the 
fish  from  the  water,  and  allowed  it  to  become  cold,  with 
a  knife  carefully  peel  off*  the  skin,  and  then  mask  over 
the  fish  entirely  with  a  coating  offish  forcemeat,  No.  ISO 
(in  which  there  has  been  mixed  a  good  quantity  of 
lobster  spawn  to  colour  it  red),  and  after  smoothing  the 
surface  over  by  means  of  a  knife  dipped  in  hot  water 
and  lightly  drawn  over  the  forcemeat,  insert  thereupon 
some  pieces  of  truffles  to  form  a  decoration  represent- 
ing sprigs  of  laurels,  &c. ;  cover  the  salmon  over  with 
paper  previously  well  greased  with  butter,  place  it  in 
the  oven  for  about  half  an  hour  before  dinner-time,  and 
when  the  forcemeat  has  become  finn,  yet  somewhat 
elastic  to  the  touch,  dish  up  the  salmon,  garnish  it  with 
p^rigueux  sauce,  No.  67,  some  decorated  quenelles  of 

lobster,  No.  187,  large  crayfish,  and  button  mushrooms. 
Note, — As  this  is  evidently  a  very  extravagant  dish,  it 

may  be  indulged  in  only  upon  extraordinary  occasions ; 

and  even  then  the  most   expensive   articles  may  he 

dispensed  with,  without  deterioration  to  the  superiority 

'^f  the  dish  itself.  n 

Xo.  205.— FILLETS  OF  SALMON  A  L'INDIENNE. 

Procure  a  pound  and  a  half  of  salmon  from  the  tail 
^nd  (that  part  being  cheapest)  ;  divide  the  fish  from  the 
backbone  by  running  or  slipping  the  edge  of  the  knifo 
^ongthe  side  of  the  spine ;  and  when  this  is  effected, 
remove  the  skin  in  like  manner ;  cut  the  fish  into  neat 
sqnares  or  heart-shaped  pieces,  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick ;  dip  these  fillets  in  some  beaten  egg ;  drain 
<^ud  roll  them  in  some  fine  bread-cm  mbs ;  fry  them  of  a 
light-fewn  colour  in  some  lard  previously  made  very 
bot  for  the  purpose  ;  and  when  done,  dish  them  up  neatly 
wd  ponr  over  them  some  Indian  sauce.  No.  73,  and 


I  TflS  OOOK'B  GUIDE,    AND 

prinkle  over  the  fillets  some  finely  shred  peel  of  tlie 
rreen  mountain  gherkins,  to  be  had  of  Crosse  and  Black- 
well,  Soho-square. 

No.  206.— FILLETS  OF  SALMON  A  LA  MABE8GHALE. 

Let  these  be  prepared  and  bread-cmmbed  as  directed 
in  the  foregoing  case  ;  and  instead  of  frying  them  in  lard, 
two  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  in  a  santapan,  must  be 
used  for  that  purpose  ;  and  when  the  fillets  of  salmon  are 
done,  and  dished  up,  garnish  the  centre  of  the  entree  with 
either  muscles,  oysters,  prawns,  or  shrimps  (these  must 
of  course  have  been  previously  scalded  or  picked) ;  poor 
over  the  garnish  and  round  the  fillets  some  ravigotte 
sauce.  No.  34,  or  aurora  sauce.  No.  88,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  207.-FILLETS  OF  SALMON  A  LA  TABTABB. 

Trim,  crumb,  and  fry  the  fillets  of  salmon  as  in  tiie 
foregoing  case,  and  dish  them  up  on  some  Tartar  sauce. 
No.  38,  previously  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  dish. 

No.  208.— FILLETS  OF  SALMON  A  LA  RAVIGOTTK. 

Trim  the  fillets  of  salmon  in  the  form  of  squares  a 
ovals,  place  them  neatly  in  a  santapan  with  a  little  clar 
fied  butter,  popper,  and  salt,  chopped  parsley,  and  tl 
juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  and  set  them  in  the  oven  or  upf 
a  slow  fire  until  done  on  one  side,  and  then  turn  thi 
over ;  and  when  done  through,  drain  and  dish  them  up 
a  ring;  sauce  over  with  ravigotte  sauce.  No.  34  or  No.  / 

No.  209.-BOILED  SAL^ION  AFTEB  THE  SCOTCH 

FASHION. 

To  dress  salmon  or  trout  in  perfection  in  this  sty 7 
b»  quite  necessary  that  the  fish  be  dressed  a  short 
after  being  caught  Sportsmen  well  know  that  it  is 
while  this  kind  of  fish  is  vet  almost  alive  that  it  r* 
that  white  creamy  substance  which  appears  betwe< 
flakes  of  the  boiled  fish,  and  which  makes  it  so 
delicious :  this  is  little  known  to  London  epicui-v 


HOUBEKKKPEU'S   AND    BUTLEB'S  A881l)TAf<T.  78 

it  be  praotioable  to  procure  what  is  termed  a  live  oalmon^ 
take  out  the  gills,  draw  out  the  guts,  (fee,  wash  the  fish 
and  crimp  it  on  either  side,  by  making  deep  incisions 
with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  then  throw  it  into  a  large 
tub  containing  cieeui,  cold,  spring-water,  fresh  from  the 
pump  ;   the  water  to  be  changed  every  half-hour,  and 
the  salmon  to  remain  in  it  for  about  two  hours.     In 
crimping  any  sort  of  fish,  the  colder  the  water  is  the 
better ;  the  coldness  of  the  water  petrifying  the  fish  to  a 
certain  degree,  gives  it  the  firmness  so  much  desired. 
Put  the  crimped  salmon  on  to  boil  in  hot  water,  with  a 
good  handful  of  salt ;  allow  it  to  boil  gently  on  the  side 
of  the  stove,  remembering  that  all  crimped  fish  require 
considerably  less  time  to  boil  than  plain  fish.     As  soon 
as  the  fish  is  done,  it  should  be  immediately  drained 
from  the  water,  dished  up,  and  served  with  lobster  and 
Dutch  sauces,  or  else  with  the  following  sauce ;  viz., — 
put  half  a  pound  of  fresh  churned  butter  into  a  cleau 
stfiwpan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  nut- 
.        meg,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  lemon-juice ;  work  this  with 
I        a  spoon  (the  stewpan  containing  these  ingredients  im- 
mersed in  hot  water)  until  dissolved  and  mixed,  and 
\        serve  with  crimped  fish,  in  a  sauceboat. 
\  Note, — The  foregoing  instructions  for  crimped  salmon 

{        and  trout  are  placed  here  solely  for  the  benefit  of  such 
t        of  my  readers   as    may  be  fortunate    enough  to  live 
wifficiently  near  salmon  fisheries  to  enjov  an  occasional 
%'8  sport,  to  enable  them,  when  they  have  been  sucv 
ce^sfol,  to  cook  their  prize  in  greatest  perfection. 

i 


THJi  OMOKtl  SUIPB,  AMI 

No.  aiO.-TEOUT.  PLAIS  BOILED. 


IVjil  the  tnmt  in  water  with  xalt;  and  wheii  dii 
throngh.  dish  it  up  on  a  napkin  in  a  dish ;  gamiiih 
round  with  picked  parsW,  and  serve  separately  in 
Bfttioo-Vuit  any  of  the  following  sauces:  viz., — Dot 
Nance,  parsley,  bnttSr,  Hhrimp,  anchovy,  Tavigotte, 
Scotch  sance  an  indicated  in  the  preot'ding  article. 

No.  211.-0Iiri,LED  TBOTJT,  EPICTJBEAN  SAUCE. 
Split  a  tront  down  the  back  with  a  knife,  and  spre 
it  open  without  bruising  it ;  lay  the  fish  npon  a  die 
searon  it  with  a  little  oil,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  sqnee 
of  lemon-juice ;  place  it  between  tlie  bars  of  a  doni 
gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire  to  broil ;  turning  it,  and  bw 
mg  it  occasionally  with  a  little  oil  or  a  bit  of  biitte 
iind  when  done,  which  will  take  aboat  half  an  hoi 
place  it  on  its  dish,  pour  some  piqnante  sauce.  No.  2 
in  which  there  has  been  mixed  a  good  pat  of  epicurei 
liuMcr,  No.  130,  and  serve. 

No.  ai2.-TB0UT  WITH  GENOESE  8AD0E. 

Roil  a  trout,  remove  the  akin,  dish  it  up,  and  sauce 
over  with  Gonooso  sauce.  No.  20,  and  serve. 

Note. — Uoilod  trout  may  also  be  served  with  tl 
folli)wing  sauces  :  viz.. — Dutch,  green  ravigotte,  care 
nal,  bourguignotte,  white  or  brown  matelotte,  Stc. 


ll<n7»KKK£PSB  8   AND    BUrLSB'S   ASSISTANT.  76 

^o.  218.--TKOUT  A  L'AURORE. 

Boil  a  trout,  remove  the  skin,  and  cover  the  fish  oiei 

with  the  following  preparation :  viz., — To  three   raw 

yolks  of  eggs  add  half  a  gill  of  white  sauce,  an  ounce 

of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a 

teaspoonfol  of  anchovy,  a  little  nutmeg  and  pepper ;  stit 

this  over  the  fire  in  a  stewpan    until   it   begins  to 

thicken,  and  then,  having  masked  the  trout  with   it, 

shake  over  the   surface  the  whites  of  two  hard  eggR 

shred  fine,  which  have  been  mixed  with  the  hard  yolks 

rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  also  a  little  grated 

Parmesan  cheese.     Twenty  minutes  before  dinner-time, 

put  the  trout  in  the  oven  to  make  it  hot ;  colour  it  with 

the  salamander  of  a  light-golden  brown ;  pour  either 

some  tomata,  prawns,  or  shrimp  sauce  round  the  fish, 

Mid  serve. 

No.  214.— FILLETS  OF  TROUT. 

These  are  prepared  and  finished  in  the  same  manner 
as  fillets  of  salmon. 

No.  215.— STURGEON  A  LA  CARDINAL. 

Procure  about  two  pounds  of  sturgeon,  remove  the 

skin  with  a  sharp  knife,  tie  the  piece  of  fish   round 

neatly  into  shape  with  string,  and  place  it  in  a  stew- 

pwi  with  sliced  carrot  and  onion,  bay-leaf,  thyme,  and 

pwBley,  a  glass  of  vinegar,  four  cloves,  salt,  and  a  bit 

of  mace,  and  water  enough  to  cover  the  fish ;  set  this  to 

^il  gently  tmtil  the  sturgeon  is  done,  which  will  take 

■lore  or  less  time  according  to  the  size  and  age  of  the 

sturgeon  from  which  the  piece  has  been  cut.     W  ben 

^one,  dish  up  the  sturgeon,  garnish  with  a  border  of 

^loenelles  of  whiting,  and  crayfish,  placed  alterntitoly 

found  it;  sauce  it  over  with  cardinal  sauce.  No.  02,  and 
serve. 

Aofe.— To  save  expense,  the  garnish  may  be  dispenscxl 
^^\  and  the  sauce  only  used. 


76  THE  iJOOZ^S  OUIDJS.   ANl^ 


No.  216.— STUBGEON  A  LA  BOUEGUIGNOTTE. 

Boil  a  piece  of  stiurgeon,  large  or  small,  according  tc 
directions  in  No.  215,  and  having  dished  it  np,  pour* 
over  it  some  bonrgoignotte  sauce,  No.  60. 

No.  217.— STUBGEON  A  LA  BOTALE. 

For  this  purpose  it  will  be  necessary  to  procure  « 
larger  piece  of  sturgeon  than  in  the  preceding  caHea^ 
say  four  pounds  to  six  pounds ;  and  this  should  be  of 
oblong  shape.  Eemove  the  skin,  roll  up  the  fifih,  and 
tie  it  neatly  and  close  round  with  string  so  as  to  give  it 
the  form  of  a  bolster,  boil  it  gently  with  carrot,  onion, 
bay-leaf,  thyme,  and  parsley,  a  litde  salt,  vinegar,  and 
water ;  and  when  the  stuigeon  is  done,  drain  it  on  a 
dish,  and  set  it  to  cool.  When  cold,  mask  the  whole  of 
the  surfiEuse  of  the  piece  of  sturgeon  with  some  forcemeat 
of  whiting ;  smooth  this  orer  with  a  knife  dipped  fre- 
quently in  hot  water,  and  ornament  or  decorate  it  with 
truffle,  tongae,  and  the  peel  of  green  Indian  gherkins; 
and  this  done,  cover  it  over  with  buttered  paper ;  moisten 
the  bottom  part  of  the  fish  only,  by  pouring  about  a 
pint  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  or  a  little  broth,  into 
the  baking-dish  it  is  placed  upon,  and  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  before  dinner-time,  put  it  in  the 
oven  to  bake  rather  slowly,  basting  it  occasionally  with 
its  own  liquor,  and  when  done,  place  it  carefully  on  its 
dish,  garnish  round  the  base  with  groups  of  tra£9e8y 
mushrooms,  picked  prawns,  and  small  quenelles  of 
whiting,  the  forcemeat  of  which  has  had  a  green 
colour  imparted  to  it  by  the  addition  of  chopped  boiled. 
parsley ;  pour  some  well-made  ravigotte  sauce.  No,  34, 
or  some  iiilomande.  No.  17,  round  an^i  over  the  fish,  anA 
serve. 

Note. — This  is   rather  an  expensive    afiair,  and  te 
therefore  to  be  indulged  in  upon  gala  days  only. 


housekexpxb's  and  butlxb's  assistant.  77 


No.  218.— STUBGEON  GBILLED,  PIQUANTB  SAUCE. 

Procure  a  slice  of  tender  sturgeon  about  an  inch 
thick,  rub  it  over  with  a  little  salad-oil,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  broil  it  over  a  clear  fire  until 
done  on  both  sides  ;  place  it  on  its  dish,  and  pour  over 
it  some  piquante  sauce,  No.  22,  in  which  there  has 
been  incorporated  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter  and  a  little 
anchovy. 

^Qte, — Grilled  or  boiled  sturgeon  may  also  bo  served 
in  every  variety  and  fashion  of  dressing  indicated  for 
the  preparation  of  salmon. 

No.  219.— BAKED  CODFISH.  STUFFED. 

Procure  a  perfectly  fresh  middle-'Sizcd  fish,  wipe  it 

thoroughly  clean,  fill  the  inside  with  veal  stuffing,  No. 

294,  sew  up  the  fiaps,  and  having  trussed  the  cod  in 

the  form  of  the  letter  S,  with  a  sharp  knife  make  deep 

incisions  on  both  sides  of  the  fish,  and  place  it  upon  a 

baking-dish ;   moisten  the   cod  all  over   with  half  a 

ponnd  of  dissolved  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 

and  some  oyster  liquor,  and  set  it  to  bake  in  the  oven ; 

basting  it  frequently  with  its  own  liquor ;    about  an 

bonr  and  a  half  s  baking  will  suffice  to  do  it  thoroughly. 

When  about  half  done,  with  a  dredger  containing  brown 

raspings  of  rolls,  shake  a  coating  all  over  the  fish ;  this 

must  be  repeated  several  times ;  whereby  not  only  the 

appearance  of  the  fish  will  be  enhanced,  but  the  flavour 

]^  also  be  considerably  improved.     The  cod  done,  lift 

it  carefully  by  means  of  two  fish-slices,  cleverly  handled, 

on  to  its  diah ;  strain  the  liquor  intx)  a  stewpan,  add 

'hereto  six  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces  of  fiour,  a  glass 

of  Harvey,  a  glass  of  wine,  a  little  anchovy,  cayenne, 

nutmeg,  a  few  chopped  capers,  lemon-juice,  and   four 

*iozen  of  scalded  oysters ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it 

*)ilB ;  poiir  it  over  and  round  the  fish,  and  se^^e. 


7^  TBX  eomt%  scnin;  avi> 

Have  akome  clean  wskter  nadj  boHing  on  the  fire; 
place  the  slice  or  iliceis  of  crimped  cod  in  it ;  add  salt  io 
^ofSoient  qnanticj  to  fttrcsigly  flavoiir  the  water,  and 
baring  allowed  the  fish  to  hoil  very  gentlj  for  about 
twenty  mintttefl,  the  slices  moat  be  immediately  dished 
up  as  soon  as  they  are  done;  inasmuch  as  to  allow 
any  fish  to  remain  in  water  afi:er  it  is  done,  spoils  it : 
but  this  is  mi  jre  particularly  the  case  with  all  crinuied 
fii>h.  Gami^  the  slices  of  crimped  cod  with  pii^ed 
parsley,  and  some  pieces  of  the  liVer  which  have  been 
boiled  n»:*parately,  and  serve  oyster  sance,  No.  43,  in  a 
sauceboat. 

X-jU. — C<>i's  liver,  when  boiled  with  the  fish,  throng 
the  decomposition  of  its  oil,  imports  an  unpleasantly 
strong  flavour. 

Xo.  221  —COD  A  LA  DIEPPOISE. 

Procure  slices  of  cod  about  half  an  inch  thick,  dip 
them  in  a  little  milk  on  a  plate,  flour  them  over  tho- 
roughly,  and  fry  them  in  plenty  of  very  hot  lard  or 
clean  fat;  it  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  to  cook 
them  through  ;  the  slices  of  cod  must  then  be  drained 
on  a  cloth  tj  absorb  all  grease,  and  placed  neatly  on  m. 
dish  in  which  there  has  been  previously  poured  som^ 
white  matelotte  sauce.  No.  >i7,  or  else,  if  more  convfr- 
nieut,  muscle  sauce.  No.  42. 

No.  222.-COD  FEIIO),  A  LA  PORTUGUAISE. 

Fry  the  slices  of  codfish  as  directed  in  the  preceding 
case :  and  when  done,  dish  them  up,  and  pour  roaEid 
them   the   following  sauce :   viz.. — to    half  a    pint   d 
tomata  sauce,  No.  21,  add  the  reduced  or  concentrated 
liqucr  of  a  pint  of  muscles,  a  glass  of  wine,  a  little 
flaney,  anchovy,  nutmeg,  and  an  ounce  of  batter:  stir 
over  the  firo  until  quite  hot. 


fI0nbKKE£I*MK'6   AND   0UTLKlt*8    ASSISTANT.  7^ 

No.  223.-  COD  GRILLED  A  LA  COLBERT. 

Slices  of  cod  half  an  inch  thick,  dipped  iu  oil  oi 
dissolved  butter,  and  afterwards  well  floured  over,  must 
bo  carefully  broiled  upon  a  clean  gridiron,  over  a  clear 
fire ;  and  when  done  on  both  sides,  dished  up  with 
mattre-d'hotel  butter.  No.  127,  under  the  fish,  and  some 
maitre-dTi6tel  sauce,  No.  32,  poured  all  round  its  base ; 
Hud  serve  before  the  butter  has  melted. 

No.  224.— CODFISH  A  LA  RELIGIEUSE. 

Boil  one  pound  or  more  codfish,  drain  it  free  from 
water,  break  it  up  gently  into  flakes,  and  put  these  into 
a  Btewpan  with  eitiber  bechamol  sauce.  No.  15,  oyster 
sance,  No.  43,  or  egg  sauce,  No.  46 ;  toss  lightly  over 
^  fire  until  quite  not,  pile  up  in  a  dish,  garnish  round 
^th  neatly-s^ped  forms  of  boiled  parsnips,  and  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  placed  alternately,  and  servo. 

No.  225.— CODFISH  A  LA  CREME. 
■^elHirbot,  No.  195. 

No.  226.— COD  A  L'INDIENNE. 

%  or  grill  the  slices  of  cod  as  in  No.  221  ;  and 
'vnen  done,  dish  them  up,  and  pour  over  them  some 
curry  sauce,  No.  85,  in  which  there  have  been  mixed  a 
tittle  anchovy  and  about  two  ounces  of  butter.  Serve 
Rin  boiled  rice  separately. 

No.  227— PLAIN  BOILED  RICE  FOR  CURRIES. 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  and  put, 
^/  a  pound,  to  boil  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water, 
^th  a  little  salt ;  allow  it  to  boil  gently  until  in  each 
P^m  of  rice  may  be  seen  the  division  which  is  effected 
^  the  course  of  boiling,  and  which  gives  to  the  grains  of 
'Jce  when  done  the  form  of  the  letter  x :  the  rice  must 
^oen  bo  drained  upon  a  sieve,  covered  with  a  nny»kin, 


I 


80  THE  oook's  ouioe,  joid 

and  placed  in  the  screen  to  dry,  care  being  taken  ti)  move 
it  lightly  with  two  clean  forks,  in  order  to  prevent  the 
grains  from  sticking  together,  and  becoming  clammy. 
Well-cooked  rice  for  curries,  mnst  be  thoroughly  done, 
and  present  a  perfectly  white  and  light  appearance. 

No.  228.— BAKED  COD'S  HEAD. 
See  Baked  Cod  stuffed,  No.  219. 

No.  229.— HADDOCK  EGG  SAUCE. 

Fill  the  inside  of  the  fisKwith  veal  stuffing.  No.  294, 
sew  it  up  securely  with  trussing  needle  and  twine,  irum 
the  haddock  in  the  form  of  the  letter  S,.boil  it  in  water 
with  a  little  salt,  and  when  done,  dish  it  up,  garnish  it 
with  picked  parsley,  and  serve  with  egg  sauce.  No.  45, 
in  a  sauce-boat. 

No.  230.-BAKED  HADDOCK, 

Stuff  and  bako  the  haddock  as  directed  for  baked  cod- 
fish ;  and  when  dished  up,  sauce  it  over  with  piqoanto 
sauce,  No.  22,  finished  with  a  pat  of  butter  and  a  Iittl» 
anchovy. 

No.  231.— GRILLED  HADDOCK. 

Wipe  the  haddock  thoroughly  dry,  rub  it  over  witlB 
oil,  and  tlien  flour  it  over  dry ;  broil  it  upon  a  gridiron « 
over  a  clear  fire,  and  when  done  on  both  sides,  dish  It 
up  on  a  napkin ;  and  serve  separately  in  a  sauce-boat 
either  Dutch  sauce,  maitre-d'hotel,  shrimp  sauce,  or 
anchovy  butter  sauce. 

No.  232.— FILLETS  OF  HADDOCKS. 

These  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  fiUets  *^ 
Vilmon,  for  which  see  No.  207. 


nOUSSEKXPKB'fl  AND    BUTLEB  S  ASSISTANT.  81 

No.  233.— SOLES  BOILED. 

Cnt  off  the  rough  edge  of  the  fins,  wash  clean,  and 
boil  in  water  with  a  little  salt ;  and  when  done  through, 
dish  up  the  sole  on  a  folded  napkin  with  the  white  side 
uppermost;  garnish  round  with  picked  parsley,  and 
serve  either  of  the  following  sauces  in  a  sauce-boat - 
'*^., — anchovy,  Dutch,  or  shrimp  sauce. 

No.  234.— SOLES  FEIED. 

Trim  away  the  fins  of  the  sole,  wipe  it  dry,  run  the 

point  of  a  knife  straight  along  the  back  part  of  the 

spinal  bone,  rub  the  sole  over  with  flour,  and  then  with 

a  paste  brush  dipped  in  beaten  egg,  moisten  it  all  over 

OB  both  sides,  and  cover  it  well  with  fine  bread-crumbs ; 

fty  it  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  very  hot  lard  or  frying 

iat  to  swim  it,  and  when  done  through,  drain  the  fish 

on  a  cloth  to  absorb  all  grease ;  dish  it  upon  a  napkin 

with  some  fried  parsley;  serve  either  lobster,  Dutch, 

Bbrimp,  or  anchovy  sauce. 

No.  235.— SOLE  A  LA  COLBERT. 

Fry  a  large  sole  as  directed  above,  and  when  done 
cleverly  remove  the  backbone  without  deforming  the 
fisti;  and  in  the  cavity  place  about  two  ounces  of 
ni^tre-d'hStel  butter,  No.  127,  and  a  small  bit  of 
glaze;  pour  some  maitre-d'h6tel  sauce,  No.  32,  round 
),  and  serve  before  the  butter  is  melted. 


No.  236.— SOLE  AU  GRATIN. 

Cleanse  and  trim  a  sole;  place  it  in  a  baking-dish 
previously  spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkled  over  with 
*  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  raspings  of  bread ; 
?ioisten  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  little  mushroom 
J^ce  or  catsup,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy ;  season 
^th  finely-chopped  parsley,  mushrooms,  and  one  shalot ; 
•trew  some  raspings  over  the  surface  of  the  sole,  and  sot 

a 


82  THE  oooe's  oxjide.  Aim 

it  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  about  half  an  lionr ;.  and  \i 
done,  remove  the  sole  on  to  its  disli  with  a  fish-sl 
add  half  a  glass  of  wine  to  the  sauce,  stir  toget 
pour  it  over  the  sole  ;  apply  the  red-hot  salamandei 
five  minutes,  and  serve. 

No.  237.— SOLE  WITH  FINE  HERBS. 

Prepare  a  sole  as  in  the  foregoing  Article ;  but,  ins 

of  raspings,  use  some  white  sauce  ;  and  when  the  so! 

baked,  place  it  on  its  dish ;  add  a  pat  of  butter  and 

half  of  a  lemon  to  the  sauce ;  pour  it  over  the  fish, 

serve. 

No.  238.— SOLE  A  L'AURORE. 

Bone  and  stuff  a  sole  with  fine  herbs  (chopped  pars 
mushrooms,  and  shalot  fried  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt),  and  bake  it  on  a  sautapan  with  a  litde  bntte 
glass  of  wine,  and  a  little  mushroom-juice  or  broth ; 
when  done,  place  it  on  its  dish,  and  finish  as  indioi 
for  trout  a  Taurore,  No.  213. 

No.  239.— SOLE  NORMANDE. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  first  instance  as  in  the  f< 
going  case  ;  and  when  dished  up,  boil  down  the  liq 
and  add  it  to  some  white  matelotte  sauce,  No.  87 ; 
it  over  the  sole,  garnish  round  with  crayfish,  and 
crdutons  of  bread. 

No.  240.— SOLE  A  LA  CARDINAL. 

Bone,  stuff,  and  bake  a  large  Torbay  sole  ;  and  w! 
done,  dish  it  up  ;  reduce  the  liquor  and  add  it  to  6( 
cardinal  sauce,  No.  62  ;  pour  this  over  the  sole ;  gan 
it  round  with  a  border  of  quenelles  of  whiting  decora 
with  truffle,  and  serve. 

No.  241.— FILLETS  OF  SOLES. 

First,  skin  the  sole,  and  then  lay  it  flat  on  the  ta 
and  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife  make  a  deep  incit 
right  along  the  backbone,  and  then  inserting  the  k 


B0U8EKBBPSB  8  AND  BUTLEB  8  ASSISTANT.  8S 

close  to  the  head  between  the  £llet  and  the  fin  bones, 
and  by  dexterously  slipping  the  edge  of  the  knife  tinder 
tiie  fillet  up  to  the  fins — from  head  to  tail,  the  fillet  will 
be  easily  removed  entire  and  free  from  jags ;  and  thus, 
having  filleted  as  many  soles  as  may  be  required  for  your 
intended  purpose,  divide  each  fillet  across  the  centre ; 
trim  the  ends  neatly  and  place  them  symmetrically  in  a 
sautapan  containing  about  two  ounces  of  clarified  butter ; 
season  with  lemon-juice  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  set 
tbe  sautapan  on  the  fire,  or  in  the  oven  to  cook  the 
fillets,  and  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  if  thoroughly  done, 
drain  them  upon  a  cloth  to  absorb  the  grease ;  dish  tbem 
^p  in  a  circular  form,  each  fillet  overlying  the  other ; 
pour  over  them  either  of  the  following  sauces,  and 
serve: — ^maitre-d'h6tel,  ravigotte,  Dutch,  cardinal,  white 
matelotte,  shrimp,  Indian,  Italian,  muscle,  or  green 
ravigotte. 

No.  242.— FILLETS  OF  SOLE  FRIED. 

When  the  fillets  of  soles  are  trimmed,  flour  them  over, 
then  dip  each  piece  separately  in  some  beaten  egg ; 
roll  them  in  some  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  place  them  in 
awirefiying  basket  (see  Adams*  Illustrations  at  the  end 
of  the  book).  And  having  some  hot  clean  frying  fat, 
"nmerse  the  fillets  in  the  basket  in  it ;  allow  them  to 
fiy  for  about  ten  minutes,  by  which  time  they  will  have 
ftwjuired  a  light-golden  brown  colour ;  they  must  then 
he  withdrawn  from  the  fat,  drained  on  a  cloth,  dished  up 
neatly,  similarly  to  cutlets  ;  and,  having  poured  either 
of  the  sauces  nameji  in  the  preceding  Article  round 
^em,  send  to  table. 

No.  243.— FILLETS  OF  FISH,  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Having  trimmed  the  fillets  of  any  kind  of  fish  in  a 
siniilar  manner  to  fillets  of  soles,  place  them  in  a  pan 
^th  a  Httle  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt,  a  little  picked 
pwsley,  and  a  sliced  onion ;  mix  altogether  in  order  that 
the  fillets  may  be  well  impregnated  with  the  seasoning ; 

q2 


84  THUS  cook's  guide,  ahb 

and  when  about  to  cook  them,  let  them  be  dramed  on  a 
cloth,  and  afterwards  dip  each  fillet  separately  in  some 
light  frying  batter.  No.  288 ;  and  taking  care  that  they 
are  not  overladen  with  the  batter,  drop  them  qnickhr 
into  the  hot  frying  fat,  and  turn  them  about  lighuy  wiu 
a  fork  so  as  to  admit  of  their  being  caught  equally  all 
over  by  the  heat  of  the  fat,  which  will  cause  them  to  be 
evenly  coloured.  The  fillets  will  take  about  a  qnartei 
of  an  hour  to  fry  them  thoroughly ;  and  when  done,  are 
to  be  dished  up,  and  served  with  either  of  the  sauoee 
named  in  the  foregoing  Articles.  It  is  advisable  to 
serve  the  sauce  separately,  as  the  steam  arising  theie' 
&om  destroys  the  crispness  of  the  batter. 

No.  244.— FILLETS  OF  SOLE  A  LA  TABTABE. 

Bread-crumb  the  fillets  of  sole  in  the  usual  manner ; 
fry  them  in  two  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  in  a  sautapan, 
over  a  sharp  fire,  and  when  done  of  a  golden  brown, 
drain  them  on  a  cloth,  and  dish  them  upon  some  Tartai 
sauce.  No.  38. 

No.  245.— FILLETS  OF  SOLES  A  LA  E0UENNAI8E. 

For  this  purpose  the  thin  pellicle  or  under-skin  muft' 
be  removed  from  the  fillets  by  pressing  gently,  yd 
firmly,  with  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand,  while  witl 
the  right  hand  the  fiiife  must  be  run  through  betwefe' 
the  thin  skin  and  the  fillet  of  the  fish,  so  as  to  remow 
the  skin  without  cutting  the  fillet  through,  or  in  at* 
way  injuring  it ;  and  when  this  is  accomplished,  spree 
the  fillets  out  to  their  full  length,  and  cover  thei 
thinly  with  a  coating  of  forcemeat  whiting,  in  whic 
there  has  been  mixed  some  lobster-spawn  to  give  it 
red  colour ;  and  then,  folding  the  fillets  together,  plac 
them  symmetrically  with  the  pointed  ends  all  converi 
ing  to  the  centre  of  the  sautapan  containing  soix 
clarified  butter ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  sprinls^ 
lightly  some  chopped  parsley  over  the  fillets ;  place 


housbkeefeb's  and  butleb's  assistant.  85 

small  stewpan  lid  in  the  centre  of  the  santapan  to  press 
the  ends  of  the  fillets,  in  order  to  prevent  them  from 
fipreading  open  while  they  are  being  cooked  in  the  oven ; 
diismll  take  about  twenty  minutes,  and  when  done,  dish 
up  the  fillets  like  cutlets,  pour  in  the  centre  and  round 
their  base  some  white  matelotte  sauce,  No.  87,  and  serve. 
This  is  a  very  handsome  dressed  fish. 

No.  246.— BOILED  GURNET. 

Pill  the  inside  of  the  gurnet  with  some  veal  stuflfing  ; 
sew  up  the  flaps ;  boil  it  in  water  with  a  little  salt ;  and 
when  done,  dish  it  up  on  a  folded  napkin ;  garnish  it 
round  with  picked  parsley,  and  serve  with  white  or 
brown  caper  sauce,  Nos.  26  and  26,  or  with  anchovy, 
shrimp,  Dutch,  lobster,  or  piquante  sauce. 

No.  247.— BAKED  GURNET. 

&e  Baked  Codfish,  No.  219,  and  pour  round  the  gur 
net  some  Proven9al  sauce.  No.  69. 

No.  248.— FILLETS  OF  GURNET. 

These  may  be  prepared  in  every  variety  of  form  pre- 
*nbed  for  dressing  fillets  of  soles. 

No.  249.— BOILED  MACKEREL. 

,^il  the  mackerel  in  salt  and  water,  and  send  to  table 
^4  either  fennel,  parsley,  or  gooseberry  sauce. 

^*o.  250.-BOILED  MACKEREL  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL. 

Split  the  mackerel  down  the  back,  season  with  pepper 
^^dsalt^  oil  it  over,  place  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  moderate 
fiye;  and  when  done  on  both  sides,  take  it  up  on  a  hot 
^  and  fill  the  inside  with  cold  maitre-d'hotel  butter, 
^0. 127 ;  pour  some  maitre-d*h6tel  sauce  round  the  base, 
*^d  serve. 


86  THB  cook's  guidei,  asd 


No.  251.-GEILLED  MACKEREL  WITH  BBOWK  BUTTEB 

SAUCE. 

Grill  the  mackerel  as  directed  in  the  preceding  case ; 
serve  it  up  on  a  hot  •  dish  with  fried  parsley  placed  at 
each  ond,  pour  some  brown  butter  sauce,  No.  54,  over  it» 

and  servo. 

No.  252.— FILLETS  OF  MACKEEEL  A  LA  HAITBE 

D'HOTEL. 

To  fillet  the  mackerel,  place  the  fish  on  the  table  with 
the  head  to  your  right  and  its  back  towards  you ;  then 
run  the  knife  in,  just  below  the  gills ;  turn  the  edge  of 
the  blade  under;  press  with  the  fingers  full  on  the 
upper  end  of  the  fillet,  and  bearing  with  the  blade  of  the 
knife  gently  down  to  the  tail,  the  first  fillet  will  thtiB  be 
removed ;  repeat  this  action  on  the  side  of  the  backbone, 
and  then,  dividing  the  fillets  into  halves  crosswise,  trim 
off  the  black  inside  skin  and  bones ;  cut  off  the  comen, 
and  arrange  the  fillets  in  symmetrical  order  in  a  sauta- 
pan  containing  two  ounces  of  dissolved  butter ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  chopped  parsley ; 
set  them  over  the  fire,  or  in  the  oven  for  twelve  minutes, 
and  when  done  through,  drain  and  dish  them  up  in 
circular  form ;  place  the  roes  (previously  parboiled  in 
water  with  a  little  vinegar  and  salt)  in  the  centre ;  pour 
some  maitre-d'hdtel  sauce.  No.  32,  over  all,  and  serve. 

Note, — Fillets  of  mackerel  prepared  as  prescribed  in  the 
first  part  of  the  foregoing  directions  may  also  be  served 
with  any  of  the  following  sauces,  viz. : — ravigotte, 
Dutch,  brown  butter,  piquante,  matelotte,  or  Genoese. 

No.  253.— BED  MULLETS  GBILLED. 

Season  the  mullet  with  pepper  and  salt;  mb  it 
with  oil ;  place  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  moderate  fire, 
having  grilled  it  on  both  sides,  dish  it  up,  and  serve 
either  maitre-d*h6tel,    Proven^ale,   piquante,  Gen 
tomata,  ravigotte,  or  Italian  sauce. 


housxesepsb's  and  butleb*s  assistant.         87 

No.  254.— BED  MULLETS  WITH  FINE  HERBS. 

Place  ihe  mullets  in  a  sautapan  with  an  ounce  of  but* 
ter,  a  little  Harvey,  anchovy,  and  a  glass  of  wine ;  bake 
them  in  the  oven,  or  else  covered  up  over  a  slow  fire ; 
and  when  done,  remove  the  fish  on  to  their  dish ;  add  to 
their  liquor  some  finely  chopped  truflBe,  mushrooms, 
parsley,  a  little  shalot,  nutmeg,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  a  little  flour ;  stir  these  together  over  the  fire 
for  a  few  minutes ;  pour  the  sauce  over  the  mullets,  and 
serve  quite  hot. 

No.  255.— RED  MULLETS  IN  PAPERS. 

These  are  to  be  prepared  as  in  the  foregoine  case,  and 
a  leason  of  three  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  spoonful  of  cream 
to  he  added  when   finishing  the  sauce.     The  mullets 
must  be  placed  in  oiled  papers,  an  equal  proportion  of 
the  sance  spread  over  each,  and  then  fastened  down  in 
these  oiled  papers,  by  means  of  twisting  the  edges  of  the 
papers  in  a  somewhat  similar  manner  to  that  used  for 
twisting  the  hem  of  a  muslin  frill  when  about  to  pre- 
pare its  edge  for  what  sempstresses  term  whipjmg.     This 
papering  process  being  satisfactorily  accomplished,  broil 
the  mnUets  over  a  slow  fire  to  warm  them  through,  and 
also  to  colour  them  on  both  sides  without  at  all  burning 
the  paper,  and  this  done,  serve  them  on  a  napkin. 

Xo.  256.— RED  MULLETS  A  LA  CHESTERFIELD. 

The  mullets  should  be  seasoned  and  baked  as  pre- 
scribed in  the  foregoing  cases,  and  when  done,  and 
^ed  np,  must  be  sauced  over  with  some  crayfish  sauce, 
^or  making  which  proceed  as  indicated  for  the  prepara- 
tion of  lobster  sauce,  observing  that  the  liquor  from 
the  mnllets  must  be  incorporated  with  the  sauce.  Gar- 
^hthe  mullets  round  with  small  truffles  and  crayfish, 
wid  serve. 


88  THB   OOOK'S   GUIDE,    AND 

No.  257.— WHITINGS  BOILED. 

Boil  the  whiting  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  when 
done,  serve  with  either  Dutch,  plain  melted  bntter, 
anchovy,  or  merely  a  little  cold  butter  lightly  mixed 
with  the  flakes  of  the  fish.  Plain  boiled  whitings  con- 
stitute but  insipid  eating,  and  are  seldom  eaten  ex- 
cept by  invalids;  for  whom  they  are  considered  light 
food. 

No.  258.--FRIED  WHITINGS. 

First,  skin  the  whiting,  and  then  turn  the  tail  round, 
and  fasten  it  between  the  jaws  by  means  of  a  small 
pointed  twig ;  this  done,  flour  it  over,  having  dipped  it 
in  beaten  egg,  roll  it  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  it  is 
plenty  of  hot  frying  fat ;  and  when  done  through,  dish 
it  up  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with  anchovy  or 
shrimp  sauce,  separately. 

No.  259.— WHITINGS  BROILED. 

First,  rub  the  whiting  over  with  oil,  and  then  having 
rolled  it  in  flour,  broil  it  over  a  clear  fire ;  and  when 
done,  serve  with  the  following  sauce :  viz., — two  ounces 
of  butter,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt, 
chopped  parsley  and  a  few  drops  of  elder-vinegar ;  stir 
brisHy  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  and  as  soon 
as  the  sauce  slightly  thickens,  pour  it  into  a  sauce-boat, 
and  serve. 

No.  260.— WHITINGS  AU  GEATIN. 
See  Soles  au  Gratin,  No.  236. 

No.  261.— FILLETS  OP  WHITINGS  A  LA  HOELY. 

Fillet  the  whitings  with  the  skin  left  on  in  the 
same  manner  as  indicated  for  filleting  mackerel ;  divide 
them  crosswise,  and  having  trimmed  the  fillets,  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  sprinkle  of  oil  and 
vinegar ;  dip  them  in  a  little  beaten  white  of  egg ;  flour 


HOUSBKXEPEB*S  AND   BUTLBfilB  ASSISTANT.  89 

them  well,  and  fry  them  crisp ;  and  when  done,  dish 
them  up  on  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve 
tomata,  ravigotte,  or  piqnante  sauce,  separately. 

No.  262.— PRIED  WHITINGS  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

Merely  wipe  the  whiting  without  skinning  it ;  score 
it  along  both  sides,  by  making  deep  incisions  with  a 
sharp  knife ;  dip  the  fish  in  a  little  milk  on  a  plate,  and 
having  well  floured  it  over,  fry  it  in  plenty  of  hot  fat, 
of  a  light  colour,  and  perfectly  crisp,  and  serve  with 
anchovy,  shrimp,  ravigotte,  or  maitre-d'h&tel  sauce. 

Note. — This  mode  of  frying  fish  is  much  more  simple, 
as  well  as  more  economical,  than  the  process  of  bread- 
crombing,  and  is  unquestionably  more  palatable. 

No.  263.— GRILLED  CHAR. 

Char  is  a  very  scarce  fish;  it  is  considered  a  great 
delicacy,  and  is  seldom  seen  in  the  London  markets; 
it  is  caught  only  in  the  lakes  of  Cumberland,  and  its 
flesh  is  of  a  pinky  hue,  resembling  in  colour  and  flavour 
that  of  the  fresh-water  trout.  Broil  the  char  in  the 
same  manner  as  herrings,  and  serve  it  with  either 
piquante,  Proven9ale,  ravigotte,  or  mustard  sauce. 

No.  264.— WATER  SOUOHET  OF  CHAR. 

Fillet  the  char,  pare  off  the  skin,  put  the  fillets  to 
boil  for  five  minutes  in  a  stewpan  with  some  shred 
parsley -roots  and  parsley-leaves,  and  some  weak  bright 
stock,  with  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt ;  and  sei-ve  alto- 
gether with  thin  slices  of  brown  bread  and  butter  on  a 
plate,  separately. 

No.  265.— STEWED  LAMPREYS. 

Lampreys  should  be  rubbed  over  with  a  little  salt, 
drawn,  and  washed  clean ;  and  after  being  wiped  dry, 
are  to  be  out  up  in  lengths  of  about  three  inches;  and 


90  THB  cook's  guide,  AND 

being  placed  in  a  stewpan  with  some  bTitton-mTi8hiooiu& 
chopped  parsley,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  a  pint  of 
wine,  and  a  few  button-onions,  are  to  be  stewed  gentlj 
over  the  fire  until  nearly  done ;  then  add  two  ounces  of 
butter,  with  two  ounces  of  flour,  kneaded  together  very 
smoothly ;  stir  this  in  very  gently  over  the  fire  to  boU 
for  five  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Lampreys  may  also  be  stewed  with  cyder  instead  of 
wine  ;  or  merely  with  stock  or  water ;  in  the  latter  case 
^dd  a  bit  of  glaze  and  a  little  anchovy. 

No.  266.— FBIED  SMELTS. 

Wipe  the  smelts,  cut  off  the  fins,  roll  them  in  flour, 
dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  them  in 
plenty  of  hot  frying  fat ;  and  when  done,  dish  them  up 
with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with  shrimp  or  anchovy 

sauce. 

No.  267.— BAKED  SMELTS. 

Spread  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  butter,  sprinkle 
thereon  some  raspings  of  bread,  season  with  enopped 
parsley  and  shalots,  pepper,  and  salt;  then  place  the 
smelts  in  a  row;  pour  over  them  a  little  Harvey,  anchovy, 
and  a  glass  of  wine ;  repeat  the  butter,  seasoning,  and 
the  raspings,  and  having  placed  them  in  the  oven  for 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  when  thoroughly  done,  serve 
quite  hot. 

No.  268.— EELS  SPITCHCOCKED. 

First  skin  and  draw  the  eels  by  splitting  down  the 
vent ;  then  cut  them  into  pieces  of  about  three  inches 
long,  and  remove  the  backbone  by  loosening  it  on  both 
sides  with  a  knife,  and  cut  it  out  with  scissors.  This 
done,  season  the  pieces  of  eel  with  chopped  parsley  anJ 
shalot,  pepper,  and  salt,  a  very  little  oil,  and  a  few  dropA 
of  vinegar  or  lemon-juice ;  dip  each  piece  in  beaten  e^ 
and  bread-crumb  them  without  disturbing  any  portion 
of  the  seasoning.  When  about  to  send  to  table,  fry  the 
pieces  of  eel  in  hot  frying  fat,  dish  them  in  a  circular 
row,  pour  some  pic^uante  sauce  in  the  centre,  and  serve. 


HOUSSESSPEB'S  and   BUTLSB'S  A88ISTAMT.  91 

No.  269.— STEWED  EELS. 
See  Stewed  Lampreys,  No.  265. 

No.  270.— EELS  A  LA  TARTARE. 

Skin,  draw,  and  cut  the  eels  into  pieces  an  inch  long ; 
half  cook  them  by  gently  and  partially  boiling  them  in 
water  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar ;  and  when  drained 
and  cold,  bread-crumb  and  fry  them  ;  dish  up  the  pieces 
of  eel  upon  some  Tartar  sauce,  No.  38,  already  poured  in 
the  centre  of  the  dish  for  that  purpose. 

No.  271.— STEWED  EELS.  WHITE. 

Cut  up  the  eels  as  in  the  foregoing  cases,  and  stew 
them  with  the  same  seasoning  and  a  little  French  white 
wine ;  stir  in  the  kneaded  butter,  and  finish  by  adding 
a  little  chopped  parsley  and  a  leason  of  three  yolks  of 
eggs  and  half  a  gill  of  cream. 

No.  272.-CARP  FRIED. 

To  fry  carp,  the  fish  must  be  scaled  and  drawn,  split 
down  the  back,  and  laid  open ;  a  small  angular  stone 
which  lies  deeply  set  at  the  base  of  the  skull,  and  which 
is  called  the  gall-stone,  must  be  taken  out,  for  if  allowed 
to  remain,  it  is  liable  to  impart  a  bitter  taste  to  the  fish. 
Season  the  carp  with  pepper  and  salt,  flour  it  over,  and 
fry  it  in  hot  fat ;  and  when  done,  dish  it  up  with  fried 
parsley,  and  serve  either  Italian,  ravigotte,  or  piquante 
sauce,  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Carp  may  also  be  bread-crumbed  in  the  usual  way,  if 
preferred. 

No.  273.— STEWED  CARP. 

These  may  be  stewed  whole  or  cut  in  pieces ;  the  pre- 
paration is  the  same  as  for  stewed  eels  or  lampreys, 
No.  265. 

Large-sized  carp  should  be  stuffed  either  with  veal 
stuffing,  or  with  forcemeat  of  any  kind  of   fish;   and 


93  THB  OOOX'8  GUIDE,   AHD 

stewod  in  a  little  stock  with  a  small  quantify  of  canot; 
onion,  ^c,  and  a  glass  of  red  wine;  and  when  done, 
dish  up  the  carp ;  strain  the  liquor  into  a  stewpan,  to 
be  boiled  down  and  incorporated  with  either  matelotte 
sauce.  Xo.  86  or  Xo.  20;  garnish  with  crayfish  and 
quenelles,  and  serve. 

No.  274.-CARP,  STUFFED  AND  BAKED. 
S»  Codfish,  No.  219. 

Xo.  275.— STEWED  TENCH. 

Place  the  tench  in  a  stewpan  with  a  eanall  bnnch 
of  parsley,  green  onions,  thvme,  and  bay-leaf,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  just  enough  common  French  wine 
or  cyder  to  cover  it ;  stew  the  tench  gently  over  a  slow 
fire  till  it  is  done ;  then  dish  it  up ;  strain  the  liquor 
into  a  small  stewpan ;  thicken  with  an  ounce  of  batter, 
kneaded  with  an  ounce  of  fiour :  add  a  little  mnshroom- 
catsup,  anchovy,  nutmeg,  chopped  parsley,  and  some 
prepared  mushrooms ;  stir  the  sauce  over  the  stove  for 
five  minutes ;  pour  it  oTer  the  tench,  and  send  to  table. 

Xc4^. — Tench  bearing  so  great  an  affinity  to  carp,  may 
also  be  dressed  in  every  variety  pre^rribed  for  that  fish. 

No.  276.— BABBLE.  EOACH,  AND  DACE. 

Barbie  is  but  an  indifferent  kind  of  fish,  and  is  hardly 
worth  dressing  for  table :  yet,  as  we  all  have  a  tendency 
to  be  fondest  of  anything  procured  through  our  own 
exertions,  sportsmen  at  least  will  find  some  gratifica- 
tion in  knowing  that  even  barbie,  when  properly  treated, 
is  susceptible  of  yielding  a  fair  share  of  enjoyment  to 
the  gastronomist,  who,  armed  with  some  little  modicum 
of  culinarv  knowledge,  is  enabled  to  turn  the  raost  indif  - 
ferent  kinds  of  food  into  a  comparative  delicacy.  Bar- 
bie maT  be  cooked  in  the  different  fashions  indicated  for 
carp  or  tench.  Eoach  and  dace  are  scarcely  worth  any 
other  mode  of  dressing  than  &ying. 


HOUSEKXKPXB's  and  BUTUBB'S  A8SISTAKT.  98 

No.  277.— BAKED  PIKE. 

The  easiest  and  at  the  same  time  the  safest  manner  for 
removing  the  scales  from  any  kind  of  fresh-water  fish 
ifl  to  lay  it  in  the  sink,  to  pour  boiling  water  from  the 
spout  of  a  kettle  over  both  sides  of  the  fish,  and  then  as 
soon  as — through  the  action  of  the  scalding-hot  water — 
the  brightness  of  the  scales  of  the  fish  has  become  dulled, 
immerse  the  fish  in  cold  water,  and  you  will  then  find 
it  an  easy  matter  to  remove  the  scales  with  a  blunt  knife, 
or  even  with  the    fingers :   and  thus  the  pike    being 
scaled,  drawn,  and  washed  clean,  fill  the  inside  with 
veal  stuffing ;  truss  it  in  the  form  of  an  S ;  put  it  in  t, 
baking-dish  with  a  pint  of  common  wine,  or  cyder,  or  a 
little  stock ;  half  a  pound  of  butter,  a  glass  of  catsup, 
a  little  anchovy,  and  some  chopped  parsley  and  slialot ; 
set  the  pike  in  the  oven  to  bake  until  it  is  done,  re- 
membering that  it  must  be  frequently  basted  with  its 
own  liquor,  and  that  the  heat  of  the  oven  must  not 
be  fierce,  as  in  that  case  it  would  bum  up  the  moisture 
and  spoil  the  fish. 

When  thoroughly  done  through,  lift  the  pike  carefully 
on  to  the  dish,  with  two  *fish-slices ;  strain  the  liquor  it 
has  been  baked  with  into  a  stowpan ;  thicken  it  with  two 
ounces  of  butter  kneaded  with  two  ounces  of  flour ;  add 
a  spoonful  of  Oude  sauce  (to  be  had  in  greatest  perfec- 
tion at  Crosse  and  BlackwelPs  warehouse,  Soho-square), 
a  few  sliced  gherkins,  and  a  glass  of  sherry ;  stir  the 
Bauce  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  pour  it  over  the  fiyh, 
and  send  to  table. 

Small  pike  may  also  be  cut  up  and  stewed  in  similar 
manner  to  eels,  carp,  <fec. ;  larger  fish  of  this  kind  may 
be  cut  in  thin  slices,  which,  being  placed  in  very  cold 
pump  water,  will  by  that  means  become  crimped,  pro- 
viding that  the  fish  be  nearly  alive.  When  treated  in 
this  manner,  crimped  slices  of  pike  form  a  great  luxury ; 
and  may  be  served  when  boiled,  or  fried,  as  prescribed 
for  dressing  crimped  cod,  with  every  variety  of  sauce 
directed  to  be  served  with  cod-fish  or  salmon. 


94  THE  COOK  8  6UIDB,   ASD 

No.  278.— PERCH. 

Perch,  when  caught  in  limpid  waters,  oonstituteB  Terj 
sweet  delicate  eating :  this  fish  mav  be  snocessfiillj 
dressed  in  every  mode  already  described  for  the  pre- 
paration of  carp^  trout,  eels,  d:c. ;  in  addition  to  which 
it  is  peculiarly  well  adapted  for  making  water  sonchet ; 
for  which  see  No.  264. 

No.  279.— SKATK 

This  fish  is  generally  sold  cut  in  strips  and  cniied 
round  -with  a  piece  of  the  liver  in  the  centre ;  it  is  then 
called  crimped  skate ;  and  is  considered  by  many  deli- 
cious eating.  The  general  fashion  for  dressing  this  fish 
is  to  lx>il  it  in  salt  and  water,  and  serve  it  with  white 
or  bn>wn  caper  sauce,  or  with  shrimp  or  anchovj 
sauce. 

Skate  is  also  excellent  when  bread-cnunbed  and 
fried,  and  served  with  either  of  the  sauces  above  named, 
^uid  also  widi  tomata.  Indian,  or  piquante  sance. 

No.  2S0.— CEniPED  SKATE  WTTH  BROWN  BriTER. 

Boil  the  skate  in  water  with  salt  and  a  little  vin^ir : 
and  when  done,  disii  it  up  with  some  of  the  liver  and 
fried  parsley ;  pour  seme  carefully-prepared  brown 
butter  sauoe.  No.  o4.  over  it,  and  serve. 

This  mode  of  dressing  ska:e«  onoe  tried,  will  ever  afkez 
continue  a  favourite  wi'ii  true  epicures^ 

No.  SSL— WHTTE-BAIT. 

^^^lite-bait  is  a  great  favourite  with  all  who  visit 
London  durina:  t^e  months  of  Ma  v.  June«  and  Jnlr, 
this  delicacy  :.<  in  greatest  perfection.  They  are  a 
small,  siIver^--Ix'kirLg  fish;  and  their  claim  te  notice  » 
their  sweet  savour.  It  was  formerly  believed  that  li> 
cbtviin  wh::e-biit  in  perfection  it  was  necesisary  to  tnvd. 
to  Blackwall :  this  fjkble  h:sis  long  since  become  obsolelt  5 


HOUBEEXEPKB^S  AND  BUTLEB's  ASSISTAKT.  95 

and  certainly,  with  the  assistance  of  the  following  in- 
structions, my  readers  may  henceforth  indulge  in  the 
luxury  of  white-bait  without  its  becoming  a  matter  of 
necessity  to  go  to  Blackwall  for  that  purpose. 

To  fry  white-bait,  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and  then  sprinkle 
it  out  of  your  hand  lightly  upon  plenty  of  flour  strewn 
thickly  over  a  cloth ;  and,  with  the  fingers  of  both  hands 
spread  apart,  quickly  and  lightly  handle  the  white-bait ; 
and  as  in  a  few  seconds  it  will  by  these  means  have  be- 
come well  covered  with  flour,  having  put  it  by  handfuls 
into  a  wire  frying  basket  (see  Adams*  Illustrations), 
shake  away  all  the  superfluous  flour,  and  dip  the  basket 
containing  the  prepared  white-bait  into  some  ver}'^  hot 
clean  lard.  A  few  minutes  will  suffice  to  fry  the  white- 
bait of  a  silvery  tinge,  yet  perfectly  crisp ;  pile  it  up  on 
a  napkin,  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  it  quite 
hot  and  crisp,  with  cayenne,  quarters  of  lemons,  and 
brown  bread  and  butter,  separately. 

No.  282.— DEVILLED  WHITE-BAIT. 

To  devil  white-bait,  it  must  bo  fried  a  first  time  in 
the  usual  way ;  and  then  after  being  sprinkled  over  with 
ground  black  pepper  and  salt,  is  to  be  fried  a  second 
time  in  very  hot  frying  fat :  this  being  done,  season  it 
again  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  and  Koi*ve  quite  hot. 

No.  283.— SCOLLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Scale  and  beard — that  is,  remove  the  beards  from 
some  dozens  of  oysters  ;  strain  the  liquor  into  a  stowpan, 
add  thereto  two  ounces  of  butter,  mixed  or  kneaded  with 
two  ounces  ?f  flour,  a  little  cream,  anchovy,  nulnicg,  and 
cayemie ;  stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire  to  boil  and  reduce 
for  ten  minutes ;  then  add  a  couple  of  yolks  of  eggs  and 
a  little  lemon-juice,  and  some  chopped  parsley  ;  add  the 
oysters  cut  each  into  halves,  stir  altogether  over  the 
fire  for  a  few  minuses,  and  fill  some  scollop-shells  with 
^  preparation ;  cover  them  over  with  a  thick  coating 


96  THE  cook's  guide,  and 

of  fried  bread-crumbs ;  place  them  on  a  baking-sheet  in 
the  oven  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  them  quite  hot. 

Note.  — If  you  have  no  scoUop-shells,  the  deep  shell  of 
the  oyster,  well  scoured,  will  serve  the  purpose. 

No.  284.— SCOLLOPED  MUSCLES. 

These  are  prepared  similarly  to  oysters,  and  placed  in 
Bcollop-shells  likewise. 

Both  oysters  and  muscles,  being  first  prepared  as  de* 
scribed  in  No.  283,  may  also  be  served  upon  neatly- 
shaped  pieces  of  dry  toast :  this  constitutes  oyster  toaBt. 
or  muscle  toast. 

No.  285.— SCOLLOPED  LOBSTEB. 

Split  a  fresh-boiled  lobster  into  halves,  by  catting  it 
through  with  a  strong  knife  from  head  to  taol ;  take  out 
all  the  meat  without  damaging  the  shell ;  trim  away  the 
ragged  edges  from  the  two  halves  of  the  body-shell,  and 
likewise  from  the  tail  and  claw-pieces ;  let  all  the  meat 
be  cut  into  small  scollops  or  squares,  and  reserved  in  a 
plate.  Pound  the  pith,  coral,  and  spawn  of  the  lobster 
in  a  mortar  witli  a  small  bit  of  butter ;  rub  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  put  this  into  a  ste>vpan  with  a  little  white 
sauce  of  any  kind,  a  little  anchovj-,  nutmeg,  cayenne, 
and  lemon-juice,  and  ha^'ing  stirred  the  sauce  over  the 
fire  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  add  the  lobster  and  the 
yolks  of  two  raw  eggs ;  stir  again  over  the  fire  to 
make  it  hot ;  fill  the  prepared  lobster-shells  with  this ; 
cover  them  over  with  fried  bread-cgumbs ;  salamander 
them,  and  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin,  with  fried  parsley. 

No.  286.— SCOLLOPED  COLLOPS. 

These  are  a  species  of  shell-fish  but  seldom  exhibited 
for  sale  in  London ;  they  are  more  plentiful  at  Brighton, 
where  they  are  much  esteemed  as  a  great  relish,  when 
properly  cooked  and  well  seasoned;  indeed  this  last 
qualification  is  of  great  importance,  inasmuch  aa 
coUops  being  of  difficult  digestion,  it  is  essential  tba* 


uousxkkbpke's  and  butlkb's  absibtant.  97 

in  order  to  render  them  comparatively  harmless  to  per- 
sons of  somewhat  delicate  digestive  organs,  they  should 
be  thoroughly  oooked,  and  plentifully  seasoned  with 
cayenne  pepper.  First,  it  is  necessaiy,  as  soon  as  the 
collops  are  removed  without  tearing  them  from  the  shells, 
that  they  should  be  soaked  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  fre- 
quently handling  them,  and  changing  the  water,  in  order 
to  free  them  from  the  sand  and  grit  which,  if  allowed 
to  remain  after  all  the  trouble  of  cooking,  render  them 
uneatable.  And  thus  the  collops  having  been  thoroughly 
cleansed,  let  them  be  parboiled  for  five  minutes  in  Qieir 
own  liquor,  and  when  drained,  set  aside  on  a  plate. 
Next,  put  the  liquor  frt>m  the  collops  into  a  small  stew- 
pan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  spoonful  of  four,  nutmeg, 
cayenne  pepper,  a  little  anchovy,  lemon-juice,  and 
eream;  but  xina  sauce  over  the  fire  to  boil  for  ten 
miniites,  and  place  the  collops  each  back  in  its  re- 
spective deep  shell ;  cover  them  individually  with  a 
good  spoonftu  of  the  sauce ;  finish  with  a  thick  layer 
of  fried  bread-crumbs;  make  them  thoroughly  hot  in 
the  oven,  and  dress  them  on  a  folded  napkin. 

No.  287.— SCOLLOPED  COCKLES. 

These  are  to  be  prepared  with  all  care  as  to  cleanli- 
ness, as  they  contain  much  grit,  &c. ;  and  in  all  respects 
proceed  as  recommended  for  dressing  collops ;  and  when 
the  preparation  is  ready,  as  their  own  shells  are  too  small, 
ase  scollop-fibells,  or  pieces  of  dry  toast,  in  their  st^ad. 


9H  THS  OOOK'8    GUIDl,  AMU 


CHAPTER  V- 

No.  288.-FBYING  BATTBB. 

To  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  add  two  omuMt 
of  dissolved  butter,  a  teaspoimful  of  salt,  and  two  yoXku 
of  eggs ;  mix  this  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  poaxhiff 
in  at  intervals  rather  better  than  half  a  pint  of  i^m 
water ;  let  this  batter  be  well  worked  with  the  spoon 
until  it  presents  a  perfectly  smooth  creamy  appeannoe  : 
it  must  then  be  set  aside  for  an  hour  or  so,  and  ^lO^jaa 
about  to  use  it  for  the  various  purposes  described  in 
this  work,  add  lightly  three  whites  of  eggs  previonsly 
whisked  into  a  firm  froth. 

No.  289.— GEBMAN  FBYING  BATTEB. 

Prepare  the  batter  as  in  the  foregoing  number,  using 
for  the  pui'pose  beer  instead  of  water. 

No.  290.-NOVEL  KINDS  OP  FBYING  BATTEB. 

Most  novel  kinds  of  frying  batters,  never  before 
thought  of,  may  be  easily  prepared  by  observing  die  . 
instinictions  set  forth  in  Ko.  288,  using,  instead  of  watar, 
any  kind  of  white  wine,  or  any  sort  of  liqueur :  such  ii 
noyean,  maraschino,  kiimel,  cum^oa,  brandy,  <fec. ;  only, 
in  order  t^o  prevent  extravagance,  bear  in  mind  tfaii 
one  wincglassful  of  any  kind  of  liqueur  is  sufficienk 
making  up  the  deficiency  of  moistening  with  nearly  htlff 
a  pint  of  tepid  water. 

No.  291.— ITALIAN  FBYING  BATTEB. 

To  three-quai-ters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  add  two  gjUoA 
t;iblcspoonfuls  of  salad -oil,  a  tcaspoonlbl  of  salt,  a  Uttb 


HOUSEKSBPSB'S  and  BUTLBB8  ASSISTANT.  99 

range-flower  water,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  and  about  half  a 
int  of  French  white  wine,  or  cyder ;  mix  vigorously, 
lid  finish  as  in  No.  288. 

No.  292.-YOBKSHIBE  PUDDING. 

To  one  pound  of  sifted  flour  placed  in  a  large  basin 
id  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg; 
loisten  the  salt  with  a  little  milk,  then  add  the  three 
rhole  eggs ;  mix  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  adding 
t  intervals  rather  better  than  a  quart  of  milk ;  work 
lie  batter  vigorously  for  ten  minutes  to  make  it  light, 
nd  pour  it  instantly  into  a  sautapan  or  baking-tin,  pre- 
iouaLy  made  very  hot,  with  about  two  ounces  of  good 
jipping  in  it ;  set  the  pudding  to  bake  under  the  meat 
lefore  the  Are  about  half  an  hour  before  it  is  taken  up. 
)o  not  foiget  that  it  is  necessary  to  turn  the  Yorkshire 
mdding  out  of  the  dish  on  to  another  baking-sheet,  for 
he  purpose  of  baking  it  on  the  under  side  also.  When 
lone,  cut  the  pudding  into  squares,  or  diamonds,  and 
tend  to  table  on  a  dish,  separate  from  the  beef. 

No.  293.— SUET  PUDDING. 

To  one  pound  of  flour  add  six  ounces  of  chopped  suet, 

two  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg ;  mix  briskly  with  a 

wooden  spoon,  adding  gradually  a  quart  of  milk ;  and, 

as  soon  as  thoroughly  worked  together,  pour  the  mixture 

into  a  cloth  greased  with  butter,  and  floured,  previously 

arranged  in  a  round  basin  ready  to  receive  the  pudding ; 

tie  np  with  string  and  boil  sharply  in  plenty  of  water 

for  an  hour  and  a  half.     When  about  to  dish  up  the 

pudding,  dip  it  in  cold  water,  and  turn  it  out  on  to  its 

disli. 

No.  294.— VEAL  STUFFING,  OR  SEASONING. 

lo  half  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs  add  four  ounces  of 
chopped  suet,  and  two  whole  eggs  ;  season  with  chopped 
pai-sley,  thyme,  marjoram  and  shalot  (the  last  three  in 
Very  small  quantities),  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  mix 
Well  together,  and  use  this  stuffing  as  herein  directed. 

H  2 


692506  Ik 


100  THE  OOOK'B  OUIDI,   AVb 

No.  295.~BB£AD-CBI71fBS. 

Take  any  quantity  of  stale  bread-cmmb ;  break  it  up 
into  pieces;  place  these  in  a  clean  clotb  or  napkin; 
gather  up  the  four  comoiB  tightly  in  yonr  left  iiand« 
while  with  the  right  hand  take  a  comparatiTely  loose 
hold  of  that  part  containing  the  bread,  and  braise  it 
thoroughly  into  crumbs,  by  rubbing  the  contents  of  the 
napkin  to  and  fro  upon  the  table ;  and  having  accom- 
plished this  part  of  ^e  process,  sift  the  crnmbe  throvgii 
a  wire  sieve,  upon  a  sheet  of  paper  or  dish,  for  nee. 

Note, — A  cheaper  kind  of  bread-crumbs  which  answer* 
well  for  crumbing  fish,  may  be  prepared  in  manner 
following :  viz., — bake  or  dry  any  pieces  of  bread  (lefk 
from  table  or  otherwise)  imtil  peii'ectly  hard  without 
colour ;  pound  or  bruise  them  in  a  mortar,  and  sift  them 
through  a  wire  sieve.  This  kind  of  crnmbs,  when  the 
bread  has  been  dried  of  a  golden  brown,  answers  well 
instead  of  raspings. 

No.  296.—FEIED  BBEADCBUMBS. 

To  four  ounces  of  bread-crumbs  add  rather  better  than 
an  ounce  of  butter ;  stir  lightly  and  continuously  in  a 
sautapan,  with  a  wooden  spoon  over  a  clear  fire,  until 
the  bread-crumbs  assume  a  verj'  light-brown  colour,  and 
then  turn  them  out  immediately  upon  clean  paper  to  free 
them  from  grease,  and  use  them  for  required  pnrpotes. 

No.  297.— SAGE-AND-ONION  STUFFING. 

Chop  four  large  onions,  and  a  dozen  sage-leaves,  f^eps- 
rately  ;  parboil  these  together  for  two  minutes ;  dnuD 
them  upon  a  sieve,  and  afterwards  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  about  six  ounces  of  bread-crumb**,  two  ounce<« 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  the  stuffing  to  simmer 
very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  twenty  minutefl^ 
stirring  it  occasionally;  and  when  the  onions  stt 
nearly  done,  use  this  seasoning  for  stuffing  geese,  diieb, 
ur  pork. 


noUSXKXKFBE'B  AVI>  BUTLSb's  A88ISTAKT.  101 

yote, — The  foregoing  stuffing  may  also  be  easily  con- 
verted into  sage-and-onion  gravy,  by  adding  to  it  a  little 
orovni  gravy,  or  water ;  in  the  latter  case,  a  little  Harvey 
or  Oude  sauce  would  be  an  improvement. 

No.  298.— STUFFING  FOB  HABE8.        * 

Cut  up  the  liver,  hearty  and  lights  of  a  hare,  and  fry 
them  with  an  equal  quantity  of  ham  or  bacon,  seasoned 
with  mushrooms,  shalot,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  and 
when  slightly  browned,  pound  altogether  with  about  two 
oonoes  of  crumb  of  bread  and  one  whole  egg  in  a  mor- 
tar, until  well  pulverized  into  a  smooth  paste  ;  and  use 
this  seasoning  for  stuffing  hares  or  rabbits. 

No.  299.— OOLD  MARINADE  PIOKLE. 

To  a  quart  of  water  add  a  pint  of  vinegar,  cloves, 
mace,  peppercorns,  and  a  little  salt,  thinly  sliced  onion, 
carrot,  celery,  parsley,  bay-leaves  and  thyme,  and  use 
this  marinade  for  pickling  roebuck,  or  mutton,  or  beef, 
roebuck  fashion. 

No.  300.— MIREPOIX,  OR  FOUNDATION  FOR  FLAVOUR- 
ING SAUCES.  OR  GAME  SOUPS. 

Take  red  carrots,  onions,  celery,  parsley-roots,  shallots, 
Taw  ham  or  bacon,  cloves,  mace,  and  peppercorns ;  of 
eacli  relative  proportions — according  to  the  quantity 
required  for  any  given  purpose :  fry  altogether  with 
some  butter  in  a  stewpan,  stirring  occasionally  until  the 
uigpedients  attain  a  brownish  hue ;  then  add  a  little  wine 
and  stock;  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  us« 
^  preparation,  as  herein  directed,  for  game  sou"^"  &c. 


102  TEE  0OOK8  GUIDK.   AMD 


CHAPTER  VL 

APPETISERS  FOR  BREAKFAST.  OR  LIGHT  SDPPERP,  J 

On  the  continent  of  Europe  these  are  generally  den 
minated  *'  hors-d'oeuvres, "  and  are  mostly  eaten  befo 
dinner  or  breakfast,  to  stimulate  the  appetite ;  hence 
is  that  I  have  here  applied  to  them  the  term  **'  appetiser 

No.  301.-  CURRIED  RICB. 

Boil  a  pound  of  rice  as  indicated  in  No.  227 ;  fry  it  i 
a  stewpan  or  saiitapan,  with  a  little  fresh  butter  and 
spoonful  of  Captain  White's  excellent  curry  paste ;  fit 
lightly  together,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  302.— RICE,  TURKISH  FASHION. 

Fry  the  boiled  rice  with  a  little  butter,  cayenne,  aD 
saffron  powder ;  season  with  a  little  salt,  and  throw  i 
a  handful  of  cleaned  Smyrna  raisins ;  serve  quite  hut 

No.  303.— RICE.  POLISH  FASHION. 

Cut  an  onion  into  very  thin  slices,  and  fr}'  them  in  i 
sautapan  with  a  pat  of  butter ;  then  add  about  two  ounca 
of  cooked  ham  cut  into  shreds,  and  also  the  boiled  rioo 
season  with  a  pinch  of  ca3'enne  pepper,  and  a  spooniiDi 
of  grated  cheese  j  stir  altogether  lightly  over  the  firt 
and  serve  hot. 


HOUSEKBKPBB'S  AND   BTTTIiEB'S  ASSISTANT.  103 

No.  304.— RICE,  PIEDMONTESE  FASHION. 

Cliop  a  small  onion  very  fine,  and  fry  it  in  a  sautapan 
with  an  ounce  of  butter ;  then  add  half  a  pound  of  boiled 
rice  dry,  and  the  pulp  of  three  baked  potatoes  ;  season 
with  an  ounce  of  gmted  Parmesan  cheese,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  and  salt;  pile  up  the  rice  in  a  hot  dish; 
Btrew  over  the  surface  some  cleansed  fillets  of  anchovies 
or  sardines,  and  send  to  table  quite  hot. 

No.  305.— RICE,  MILANESE  FASHION. 

Fry  the  boiled  rice  in  a  sautapan  with  a  piece  of 
butter ;  season  with  grated  Parmesan  or  other  cheese ; 
add  any  remains  of  dressed  fowl,  game,  tongue,  ham,  or 
truffle,  prawns,  lobster,  or  any  kind  of  meat  or  fish  most 
convenient ;  any  or  several  of  these  may  be  used  to- 
gether, and  should  be  cut  for  the  purpose  into  shreds  or 
Bqaares ;  season  with  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt : 
serve  hot. 

No.  306.— RICE.  FLORENTINE  FASHION. 

Chop  and  fry  an  onion  with  a  spoonful  of  salad-oil  or  a 
pat  of  butter ;  to  this  add  half  a  pint  of  picked  shrimps, 
c''*yfisli,  or  prawns ;  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  curry 
paste  or  powder ;  fry  altogether  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
*dd  the  boiled  rice  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  Par- 
Diesan  cheese ;  serve  quite  hot. 

No.  307.— RICE,  SPANISH  FASHION. 

Fry  the  boiled  rice  in  a  sautapan,  witli  a  spoonful  of 
^lad-oil  or  an  ounce  of  butter,  until  it  assumes  a  very 
%bt  golden  colour;  then  add  either  a  large  table- 
fpoonful  of  Crosse  and  Blackweli's  toinata  sauce,  or,  if 
in  season,  a  couple  of  ripe  tomatas  (previously  squeezed 
to  free  them  from  seeds  and  watery  juice) ;  season  with 
Spanish  sweet  pepper  and  a  little  grated  cheese  ;  pile 
np  lightly  in  a  hot  dish  ;  garnish  it  round  with  grilled 
Spanish  ckarisos^  or,  if  unable  to  procure  these,  use  in 


104  TBJB  COOK'S  GUIDH,   ASD 

their  stead  thiii  slices  of  bam,  'bacon,  Bologna,  German, 
or  any  kind  of  sausage;  or  tbin  strippets  of  smokcnl 
salmon,  or  Finnon  baddies,  or  berrings,  or  pilcbards,  &c. 

No.  308.— RAVIOLIS  A  LA  NAPOLITAINB. 

First  prepare  the  raviolis  as  sbown  in  No.  167 ;  and 
wben  drained,  place  tbem  neatly  arranged  in  a  dish, 
with  alternate  layei's  of  Parmesan  cheese;  sprinkle  a 
little  dissolved  fresh  butter  over  the  surface;  set  the 
dish  in  the  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  pour  about  a 
gill  of  rich  brown  game  sauce  or  gravy  to  the  raviolis, 
and  serve  quite  hot. 

No.  309.— ROMAN  GNIOCCHL 

To  half  a  pint  of  water  add  three  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  set  this  to  boll 
in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  ebullitioii 
rises,  mix  into  it  six  ounces  of  flour;  stir  this  paste 
briskly  over  the  fire  until  it  ceases  to  adhere  to  the 
sides  of  the  stewpan ;  then  mix  in  two  whole  egg?  and 
the  yolks  of  two  others,  and  also  two  ounces  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Having  vigorously  woi  ked  this  paste, 
proceed  to  roll  it  out  in  the  shape  of  very  small  oorks. 
with  flour  strewn  upon  the  table ;  parboil  these  for  ten. 
minutes,  and  having  drained  them  upon  a  sieve,  finisli. 
the  gniocchi  as  directed  for  raviolis,  No.  308. 

No.  310.— RICE  A  LA  SCEUR  NIGHTINGALE. 

Fry  the  boiled  dry  rice  with  a  little  fresh  butter, 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  and  when  quite  hot,  add  the 
whites  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  shred   fine,  and  the 
white  parts  of  a  dried  haddock ;  pile  all  this  up  lightJy 
in  a  hot  dish ;  strew  over  the  ct>Tie  the  yolks  of  me  hard- 
boiled  ^gs  previously  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve,  and 
mixed  \^4th  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese;   ganuflh 
the  rice  roimd  the  base  with  fried  cr6utons  of  bread 
push  in  the   oven   for  five  minutes — just  to  slightly 
colour  the  surface  of  a  golden  hue,  and  serve  imiDO- 
d  lately. 


HOUBXKXXraR'S  AND  BUTLSB'S  ASSISTANT.  105 

No.  811.— FBIED  OYSTEBS. 

Parboil  and  beard  two  dossen  oysters;  dip  each  se- 
parately in  batter,  No.  288;  drop  them  into  some  hot 
frying  fat,and  when  done  crisp,  and  drained  upon  a  cloth, 
dish  them  np  with  fried  parsley  on  a  folded  napkin,  and 
serve  hot.    Fried  muscles  ai*e  served  in  the  same  way. 

No.  312.— SCOLLOPS  OF  MEAT,  OB  OP  FISH. 

Trim  neatly  into  round  or  oval  scollops  any  kind  of 
cooked  poultry,  game,  meat  or  fish ;  dip  these  in  good 
Allemande  sauce.  No.  17 ;  place  them  on  a  dish  over  the 
ice,  and  when  set  cold  and  firm,  dip  each  piece  in 
beaten  egg ;  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  them  in 
lK)t  frying  &t ;  dish  them  up  on  a  folded  napkin,  garnish 
with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  3ia-BIZZ0LLETTL 

To  half  a  pound  of  boiled  rice  add  two  spoonfuls  of 
good  white  sauce,  three  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  nutmeg,  pep- 
per and  salt ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes  to 
\  set  the  eggs,  then  put  it  to  cool ;  and  when  cold,  take  a 
tablespoonful  of  the  preparation,  spread  it  out  hollow 
^th  a  teaspoon,  and  insert  in  the  hollow  a  teaspoonful 
ofany  kind  of  croquet  meat;  envelop  it  in  the  rice ;  egg 
and  bread-crumb  me  rizzolletti ;  fry  them  in  hot  frying 
H  of  a  light  colour ;  dish  them  up  neatly  with  fried 
pwsley,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  314.— BISSOLES. 

Take  about  half  a  pound  of  trimmings  of  puff  paste ; 
P^e  it  three  turns  or  folds ;  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of 
a  new  penny  piece ;  place  small  balls  of  croquet  meat  at 
dii>'t}iflce8  of  about  two  inches  from  each  other ;  nioiston 
^  paste  round  these  with  a  brush  dipped  in  water ;  fold 
tte  flap  of  the  front  part  of  the  paste  over  the  balls ; 
prws  all  round  them  with  the  edge  of  the  thumb ;  cut 
them  out  with  a  fluted  round  tin  cutter,  and,  as  3'ou  do 


I 


106  THS  OOOK'8  6UIDX,   AVE 

80,  place  the  rissoles  upon  a  floured  dish :  thus  Laviiig 
cut  out  a  sufficient  number  for  your  purpose,  fry  them 
in  hot  fieit ;  dish  them  up  with  fried  paralej,  on  a  napkin, 
and  serve  hot 

No   315.— CROQUETS  OF  MEAT,  OB  FISH. 

Either  chop  neatly,  or  else  cut  up  into  veiy  small 
squiires,  poultry,  game,  beef,  mutton,  lamb,  veal,  or  any 
kmd  of  firm  fish  left  from  a  previous  day*s  dinner.  If 
the  croquets  are  to  be  made  of  any  kind  of  meat,  tongue, 
ham,  mushrooms,  or  truffles  may  be  added ;  put  what- 
ever is  intended  to  be  used  for  the  rissoles  into  a 
sautapan  with  a  small  proportion  of  white  sauce,  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
chopped  chives  or  shalot ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes  to  set  the  eggs  in  the  croquet  meat :  and  then 
spread  it  out  an  inch  thick  upon  a  plate,  and  set  it  to  get 
cold  and  firm  in  a  cool  place ;  it  must  next  be  divided 
into  parts  resembling  large  walnuts,  rolled  in  bread- 
crumbs to  enable  you  to  shape  it  in  the  form  of  corkst 
pears,  or  balls;  again  dipped  in  beaten  egg;  rolled 
smooth  in  bread-crumbs ;  placed  in  a  wire  frying  basket, 
and  fried  in  hot  frying  fat  of  a  light  colour,  and  dished 
on  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley. 

No.  316.— FBIED  SALMON  BOE. 

Boil  the  hard  roe  of  a  salmon  or  of  any  other  fish — 
such  as  cod,  pike,  Ac.,  and  when  done,  di-ain  and  set 
it  to  become  cold.  It  must  then  be  cut  in  slices  vrith 
U  sharp  knife,  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  fried  in  butter 
in  a  sautapan,  and  dished  up  with  fried  parsley,  and 
eaten  with  Tartar  sauce.  No.  38. 

No.  317.— LOBSTEB  CBOQUKTS. 

Break  up  a  fresh  lobster,  take  all  the  meat  carefblhr 
uut  of  the  shells,  and  mince  it  small ;  then  put  the 
bruised  coral  and  spawn  into  a  sautapan  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  white  sauce  and  three  yolks  of  eggs,  a  little 


H0U8SRE1PSB*S   AND   BUTLKit'S   AS8I8TANT.  107 

nutmeg,  cayenne,  and  anchovy;  stir  all  this  ever  the 
fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  set  the  egg  firm  in  the 
mixture,  and  when  this  is  accomplished,  turn  the  croquet 
meat  ont  on  a  plate  and  set  it  to  cool,  and  finish  as  di- 
rected in  Ko.  315. 

No.  318.— OYSTER  CROQUETS. 

Scald  and  beard  two  dozen  oysters,  cut  each  oyster 
into  about  four  or  six  pieces,  and  set  these  aside  on  a 
plate.     Next,  with  their  liquor  make  some  oyster  kruco 
as  in  No.  43  ;  reduce  the  sauce  by  boiling  down  over 
the  fire — stirring  it  the  while  to  give  it  consistency ; 
add  a  bit  of  glaze  and  three  yolks  of  eggs,  a  little  cay- 
enne, lemon-juice,  and  anchovy;   and  having  stirred 
the  sauce  again  over  the  fire  to  set  the  eggs,  add  the 
out-up  oysters ;  stir  these  in  to  mix  them  with  the 
sauce,  and  make  the  oysters  hot  through,  for  unless 
this  precaution  is  duly  attended  to,  the   composition 
is  likely  to  decompose,   which   circumstance  renders 
\i  difficult  to  handle  while  moulding  the  croquets  ;  for 
finishing  these,  see  No.  315. 

Note, — Croquets  may  also  be  prepared  with  shrimps, 
prawns,  sweetbreads,  ox-palates,  fat  livers,  &c. 

No.  319.-MARROW  TOAST  A  LA  VICTORIA. 

Procure  a  marrow-bone,  or  get  the  butcher  to  break 
the  bone  for  you — as  this  is  rather  an  awkward  afiair  for 
ladies;  cut  the  marrow  into  small  pieces  the  size  of  a 
filbert,  and  just  parboil  them  in  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt  for  one  minute;  it  must  then  be  instantly 
drained  upon  a  sieve,  seasoned  with  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  a  mere  sus- 
picion of  shalot ;  toss  lightly  altogether,  spread  it  out 
^pon  squares  of  hot  crisp  dry  toast,  and  sei*ve  imme- 
diately. 

Note. — Marrow  toast  used  to  be  eaten  every  day  at 
dinner  by  the  Queen  at  the  time  when  I  had  tbe  honour 
of  waiting  on  Her  Majesty. 


108  THE  COOlTS  aUWKf  AMD 

No.  320.-MABBOW.BONE& 

Ibrrow-bonert  worth  dreflnng  in  this  manner  are 
those  only  which  come  out  of  the  centre  of  a  round  of 
hioef,  or  from  any  part  of  the  legs  or  shins :  they  shoold 
be  sawed  into  halves  crosswise,  the  thick  ends  chopped 
into  shape,  so  as  to  make  them  stand  straight,  the  open 
end  of  each  bone  covered  with  flonr-and-water  paste: 
the  hones,  placed  upright  in  a  deep  stewpan  containing 
hot  water  reaching  half  way  np  the  hemes,  are  to  he 
boiled  covered  with  the  stewpan  lid  for  ahont  half  an 
honr;  when  done,  remove  the  paste,  envelop  each  bone 
with  a  napkin  or  cut  paper,  and  send  to  table  accom- 
panied by  hot  crisp  dry  toast. 

No.  321.— MABBOW  PATTIES. 

Prepare  the  marrow  as  shown  in  No.  319,  fill  the 
patties  with  this,  having  first  added  thereto  some  re- 
duced fine  herbs  sauce,  >io.  74. 

No.  322.— MARROW  CR0n6TAD£& 

Take  a  square-shaped  crummy  stale  half-qnartem  loaf ; 
pare  away  all  the  crust ;  cut  the  crumb  into  slices  an  inch 
and  a  half  in  thickness,  and  with  a  plain  round  tin  cntter 
an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  cut  ont  a  dozen  drcnlai 
pieces ;  these  must  be  cut  all  round  one  end  by  making  an 
incisifin  with  the  pc^int  of  a  root  knifp  in  a  ring  up  to  within 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the  edge  ;  these  prepared  pieces 
Off  bread  must  be  fried  in  hot  frying  fat,  of  a  light  colonT« 
and  when  done,  the  incised  disk  will  be  easily  removedy 
as  also  the  crumb  from  the  interior.  The  crouatades 
are  to  be  filled  with  the  man-ow  as  prepared  in  No.  321* 

No.  323.— PUFF-PASTE  PATTIEA 

Ingredients : — One  pound  of  fiour.  one  pound  of  bntter, 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  water. 

Process : — Place  the  fiour  on  the  pastry  slab,  spread 


HOU8EKEBFBB8  AND  BXTTLXB'B  ASSISTANT.  lOH 

it  out  in  the  centre  so  as  to  form  a  well,  in  which  place 
the  salt,  a  small  bit  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  egg,  the  lemon- 
jnioe,  and  two-thirds  of  the  water  required  to  ibix  the 
paste ;  you  now  spread  out  the  fingers  of  the  right  hand 
and  mix  the  ingredients  together  gradually  with  the 
tips  of  the  fingers,  adding  a  little  more  water,  if  neces> 
sary;  when  the  whole  is  thoroughly  incorporated 
together,  sprinkle  a  few  drops  of  water  on  it,  and  work 
the  sponge  to  and  fro  on  the  slab  for  two  minutes,  after 
which  the  paste  should  be  elastic — soft  and  smooth  as 
satin — to  the  touch. 

The  paste  thus  far  prepared  must  now  be  spread  out 
with  the  bent  knuckles  of  the  right  hand  on  the  slab ; 
and  having  pressed  the  butter  in  a  cloth  to  extract  any 
milk  it  may  contain,  place  it  in  the  centre  of  the  paste, 
and  partially  spread  it  by  pressing  on  it  with  a  cloth ; 
the  four  sides  should  then  be  folded  over  so  as  entirely 
to  cover  the  butter ;  shake  a  little  flour  over  and  under 
it ;  shape  the  paste  in  a  square  form  measuring  about  ten 
inches  each  way ;  place  this  on  a  baking-sheet  on  the 
ice,  and  a  sautapan  filled  with  rough  ice  set  upon  the 
paste  to  keep  it  cool  and  firm.  About  ten  miniites  after 
the  paste  has  been  thus  far  prepared,  roll  it  out  on  the 
slab  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  shaking  some  flour  lightly 
and  sparingly  over  and  under  the  paste  to  prevent  it 
from  sticking  either  to  the  rolling-pin  or  slab,  and 
having  rolled  the  paste  out  to  exactly  thirty  inches  in 
length,  fold  it  in  three  equal  folds ;  press  these  together 
by  running  the  rolling-pin  over  the  paste ;  turn  it  round 
and  roll  it  out  again  the  reverse  way,  in  the  same  manner 
and  length  as  before;  fold  it  in  three  equally;  fasten 
these  folds  by  running  the  rolling-pin  over  them  with 
pressure,  and  set  the  paste  back  on  the  ice  to  rest  for 
eight  or  ten  minutes ;  at  the  end  of  this  tijne  give  two 
other  turns  as  just  described,  and  having  again  rested 
for  other  ten  minutes,  it  must  receive  two  or  three  more 
turns  previously  to  its  being  cut  out  for  baking. 

The  next  thing  to  be  done  is,  when  after  the  latst  tui  n 


110  THB  OOOK'S  GUIDXy  AMD 

has  been  given  to  the  paste,  and  it  has  been  icHed 
to  the  thickness  of  the  sixth  of  an  inch,  and  has  1 
allowed  to  rest  upon  the  ice  for  about  three  mini 
with  a  plain  or  fluted  round  tin  patiy  cutter,  just  dip 
in  hot  water,  stamp  out  as  manj  patties  as  jou  lequ 
place  these  on  a  baking-sheet  previously  moistened  < 
with  a  brush  dipped  in  water ;  press  each  down  in 
place  with  the  fingers,  egg  over  their  surfaces,  and  ^ 
another  plain  tin  round  cutter  less  in  diameter  than 
one  with  which  the  patties  have  been  stamped  01 
this  also  dipped  in  very  hot  water, — ^make  a  circ 
incision  in  the  centre  of  the  patty ;  push  the  sheet  j 
rather  brisk  oven,  and  bake  them  for  about  tw( 
minutes ;  and  when  done,  it  will  be  an  easy  matte 
remove  the  tops  and  the  crumb  from  the  interior  n 
a  small-pointed  root  knife. 

Note. — The  use  of  rough  ice  in  making  puff  pasti 
absolutely  necessary  during  the  summer  months  01 
during  cold  weather  it  may  be  dispensed  with. 

The  patties  being  made  according  to  the  foregc 
directions,  are  to  be  filled  just  before  going  to  table  t 
any  of  the  different  kinds  of  minces  of  poultry,  game 
other  meats,  as  also  with  all  sorts  of  shell  and  0I 
fish,  prepared  as  in  Nos.  315,  317,  318,  and  321. 

No.  324.-MUTTON  PIES  A  LA  WINDSOR. 

Cut  the  lean  part  of  a  pound  of  loin  of  mutton  i 
very  small  squares,  season  this  with  chopped  mi 
rooms,  parsley,  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  li 
blown  sauce  or  gravy,  of  any  kind  most  convenie 
mix  altogether  in  a  basin.  Next,  line  some  tartlel 
patty-pans  witii  short  paste  made  without  sugar; 
these  with  some  of  the  prepared  mince  ;  cover  them  c 
with  a  top,  press  and  pinch  them  round  the  edge  ; 
them  over  ;  place  a  stamped  ornament  on  the  top  of 
patties ;  make  a  very  small  hole  in  the  centre  for  ve 
lation,  to  prevent  their  bursting  while  baking ;  p 
them  in  the  oven  on  a  baking- sheet  for  about  twc 


HOCSBKKSPSK  8   AND   BUTLSB*&  A88ISTAKT.  Ill 

minutes ;  and  when  done,  dish  them  on  a  napkin  anil 
sond  to  table. 

Note, — Small  patties  made  as  directed  above,  eithe? 
with  chicken  or  veal  and  ham,  any  kind  of  game  oi 
meat;  or  filled  with  any  of  the  great  variety  of  prepara- 
tions for  making  croquets,  they  form  an  agreeable  change 
for  the  dinner-table,  and  are  also  calculated  to  become 
favourite  aocessories  to  pic-nics  or  raoe-course  luncheonis, 
as  well  as  welcome  additions  to  the  sportsman's  basket 
of  prog. 

No.  325.— SAVOURY  TRIFLES. 

It  is  necessary  for  the  preparation  of  these  delicious 
morsels  to  practise  making  small,  plaited,  or  square 
paper  cases,  about  the  size  of  a  crown-piece ;  these  are 
easily  enough  made  by  paying  attention  to  the  following 
iustniotions  :  viz., — cut  pieces  of  note-paper  into  squares 
measuring  three  inches  on  all  four  sides;  double  tliis 
ill  two,  equally,  and  fold  each  side  into  three  reversed 
plaits;  then  turn  back  the  outer  leaves;  turn  back  the 
comers  equally  and  correctly ;  fold  the  ends  ;  pass  the 
thumb  with  pressure  on  the  edges;  open  the  centre; 
pinch  the  comers,  and  the  case  will  then  stand  up  erect. 
The  round  plaited  cases  are  made  with  circular  pieces 
of  paper  of  about  the  same  dimensions  as  the  former; 
and  after  being  plaited  all  round  to  the  depth  of  an  inch 
and  a  half,  are  pushed  into  a  round  wooden  box,  and 
heing  forced  into  it  by  means  of  a  circular  wedge  of 
wood  made  to  fit  the  hollow  tightly,  and  tlio  edge  of  the 
paper  being  twisted  under  with  the  back  part  of  the 
blade  of  a  small  knife,  the  case  will  have  received  its 
liccomplished  form.  The  cases  must  bo  slightly  oiled 
inside  and  out,  and  filled  with  any  kinds  of  moat,  shell- 
fish, or  other  fish,  minced  or  scolloped,  and  finiished 
with  sauce,  &c.,  as  directed  for  the  preparation  of 
croquet  meats ;  covered  over  with  fried  bread-crumlKs, 
uwde  hot  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  dished  up  on 
Siil^kins,  and  sent  to  table  quite  hot. 


112  fHi  oook's  otidx.  Am 

N^}te. — These  trifles  form  a  very  fimhionable  additkn 

to  the  first  course  of  a  dinner. 

No.  326.~TUBKISH  PILAU. 

Boast  off  a  chicken,  and  when  done,  remove  all  the 
meat  from  the  bones  in  large  neatlj-cnt  slieefly  and  set 
these  aside  on  a  plate  with  the  chicken  bones,  a  bit  of 
ham,  thyme,  shalot,  two  cloves,  a  glass  of  sheny,  and  a 
pint  of  stock  or  water,  boiled  gentlj  for  half  an  hour; 
make  an  essence,  which  after  being  strained  must  be 
further  boiled  down  to  the  value  of  a  gill,  and  kept  in 
reserve.  While  the  fore  part  of  the  preparation  is  going 
on,  wash  and  parboil  for  five  minutes  a  pound  of  xice, 
drain  it  free  friom  water,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
four  ounces  of  butter,  and  stir  this  over  a  brisk  fiie 
until  the  rice  acquires  equally  in  every  grain  a  ligbt- 
feiwn  colour ;  then  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  stock  or 
water,  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  juice  extracted  from 
three  pennyworth  of  saffron,  by  boiling  it  with  a  little 
water ;  put  the  lid  on  the  stewpan,  and  set  the  rice  to 
boil,  or  rather  simmer,  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  by  the  end  of  this 
time  the  rice  being  done,  stir  it  lightly  with  a  foik,  to 
detach  the  grains  from  each  other,  addmg  a  little  cnny 
powder ;  pile  the  rice  up  in  a  dish ;  place  the  pieces  o^ 
fowl  kept  in  reserve,  and  which  have  been  warmed  in 
the  essence — also  reserved  for  that  purpose ;  crown  the 
whole  with  a  group  of  stewed  Sultana  raisins,  and  serve 
hot. 

No.  327.-INDIAN  PILAU. 

Peel  and  chop  six  large  onions,  and  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  four  ounces  of  butter  and  two  Indian 
mangoes  cut  into  shreds ;  on  the  top  of  these  ingredients 
place  the  cut  members  or  joints  of  a  chicken  previously 
fried  in  butter  for  the  purpose,  and  set  the  whole  to 
stew  very  leisurely  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  When  done,  arrange  the  pieces 
of  chicken  on  some  rice  (as  in  No.  326)  lightly  piled 


HOUSICKERFIB'a  AKD   BUTLBB's  ASSISTANT.  113 

in  a  dish,  stir  the  sauce  to  mix  it,  and  pour  it  over  tho 
pilau,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  328.— INDIAN  POOLOOT. 

Wash  a  pound  of  rice  and  parboil  it ;  then  place  tli6 
rice  in  a  stewpan  with  a  fowl  trussed ;  moisten  with  u 
quart  of  water  or  stock,  and  the  juice  of  six  onions 
extracted  by  pounding  in  a  mortar,  and  then  wringing 
the  juice  with  great  pressure  through  a  napkin ;  season 
with  a  little  scat  and  the  juice  of  green  ginger ;  in  the 
ahsence  of  this,  boil  a  tablespoonM  of  ground  ginger 
in  a  gill  of  water  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  strain 
it  through  muslin  to  the  fowl.     While  the  fowl  is  boil- 
ing, cut  four  onions  in  slices  and  fry  them  of  a  light 
co^ur,   and  keep  them  warm  on  a  plate ;  fiy  also  a 
dozen  small  rashers  of  streaky  bacon,  curled  round  into 
balls,  and  fastened  in  shape  with  tiny  wooden  pegs. 
By  this  time  the  fowl  will  be  done ;  remove  it  from  the 
stewpan,  and  set  the  rice  to  dry  in  its  stewpan  in  tlie 
screen.      Cut  up  the  fowl  into  members  or  joints,  fry 
these  in  the  butter  the  onions  were  fried  in,  and  ther 
dish  up  the  pooloot  in  manner  following :  viz., — first,  pile 
up  the  rice  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  then  the  joints  of 
fowl,  next  strew  the  fried  onions  over  the  top,  strew 
also  some  stewed  cardamums  and  peppercorns  over  this  ; 
garnish  the  dish  round  its  base  alternately  with  slices  of 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  the  rolls  of  fried  bacon,  and  serve 
hot 

No.  829.— YARMOUTH  BLOATERS. 

Cut  off  the  head  and  tail,  split  the  bloater  down  the 
back,  spread  it  out  flat,  and  broil  it  on  both  sides  over  a 
clear  sharp  fire ;  send  to  table  with  a  pat  of  fresh  butter 
»Dd  a  thick  captain's  biscuit  made  hot  in  the  oven  or 
before  the  fire. 

j  No.  330.— GRILLED  KIPPERED  SALMON. 

I  Broil  the  piece  of  dried  salmon ;  rub  it  over  with  a 
$  pat  of  fresh  butter  and  a  little  cayenne  and  lemon-juice. 
f    ^  serve  hot 


114  THB  OOOK'B  OVtDE,   AMD 

No.  331.— DRIED  HADDOCKS. 

Dip  these  in  s^icalding  water  to  enable  you  to  remova 
the  skin ;  then  broil  them  over  a  brisk  fire,  rub  than 
over  with  fresh  butter  or  a  little  rich  cream,  lemon -jviod 
and  cayenne,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  332.— PULLED  CiOSP  BBEAD. 

Take  a  hot  loaf,  pull  out  the  crumb,  and  divide  it 
into  rocky-looking  pieces  by  pulling  it  to  pieces  lightly 
and  quickly  with  the  fingers  of  both  hands ;  place  the 
pieces  of  bread  on  a  baking-sheet  lined  with  paper,  and 
bake  them  over  again  of  a  very  light  brown  or  &wn 
colour.  To  be  perfect,  the  pulled  bread  must  be  qmta 
cnsp ;  it  is  eaten  chiefiy  with  butter  and  cheese. 

No.  333.— TOASTED  CHEESE. 

Chedder  is  allowed  to  be  the  richest  cheese,  and  ii 
therefore  the  best  adapted  for  toasting,  from  the  fteft 
that  it  is  not  so  liable  as  other  cheeses  to  become  toudl 
and  uneatable  before  it  is  cold.  Cut  the  cheese  n 
flakes ;  put  it  in  a  small  sHver  or  tin  dish,  made  for  fhe 
purpose,  and  which  may  be  procured  at  Adams*  Iron- 
mongery showrooms,  Haymarket ;  set  the  cheese  either 
in  the  oven  or  before  the  fire  to  toast  or  melt,  and  as 
soon  as  it  becomes  thoroughly  dissolved,  stir  it  together 
with  a  pat  of  butter,  mignionette  pepper,  and  a  little 
made  mubtard ;  and  let  it  be  eaten  instantly  with  dry 
toast,  or  pulled  bread. 

No.  334.— CHEESE  CANAPEER 

Cut  some  slices  of  stale  bread  about  the  twelfth 
of  an  inch  in  thickness,  stamp  the.se  out  ^dth  a  plain  titf 
cutter  of  round,  oval,  or  heart  shaj>e,  and,  having  fiki 
these  croutons  in  a  little  clarified  butter,  of  a  light 
colour,  dispose  some  pieces  of  cheese  upon  each,  with  a 
little  mustard  spread  under  the  cheese,  and  seasoMll 
with  pepper ;   push  the   canapees  in  a  brisk  oven  <v 


flOUSKKXXPfllB's  Aim   BtTTUBB's  ASSISTANT.  115 

before  a  clear  fixe,  and  as  soon  as  the  cbeese  is  melted, 
serre  quite  hot. 

Note. — Toasted  cheese  served  in  this  fashion  is  pre- 
fei-able  to  any  other  mode,  owing  to  the  fact  that  no 
time  is  lost  in  seasoning  and  conveying  it  to  the  toast. 

No.  885.— ANCHOVY  OANAPEES. 

Procure  a  number  of  farthing  rolls  (any  baker  will 
make  them  to  order).  Cut  these  rolls  into  equal  halves, 
scoope  out  all  the  crumb,  and  place  the  crusts  to  dry  in 
the  screen.  Meanwhile  chop  nnej — hard-boiled  eggs  in 
quantity  sufficient  for  the  number  of  canapees  to  be 
filled;  chop  also  some  tarrj^on,  chervil,  and  chives; 
and  prepare  some  fillets  or  strippets  of  cleaned  an- 
chovies. Put  the  chopped  eggs  and  herbs  into  a  basin, 
season  with  salad-oil  and  tarragon  vinegar,  pepper  and 
salt;  mix  together,  and  with  this  fill  up  the  prepared 
crusts;  ornament  them  by  placing  the  fillets  of  an- 
chovies over  their  surface  in  the  fashion  of  lattice-work ; 
dish  up  the  canapees  on  a  napkin. 

No.  336.— THE  PEINCE  OF  WALES'  CANAPEES. 

Procure  the  picked  tails  of  fifty  fine  prawns,  the 
fillets  of  a  dozen  anchovies,  two  mountain  gherkins, 
a  cleaned  head  of  white  celery,  and  two  good  truffles  : 
let  all  these  be  cut  in  small  neat  squares,  put  into  a 
basin  with  enough  Prince  of  Wales'  sauce,  No.  81,  to 
season  the  ingredients ;  mix  together,  and  fill  a  number 
of  crusts  of  rolls  as  shown  in  No.  335,  with  this  pre- 
paration ;  cover  their  surface  with  a  thin  circular  piece 
of  bright  aspic  jelly,  and  dish  them  up  on  a  napkin. 

Note. — It  has  just  struck  me  that  these  delicious 
canapees  which  I  consider  so  worthy  of  the  epicure's 
notice,  under  the  patronage  of  the  illustrious  individual 
whose  name  I  have  ventured  to  borrow  for  their  desig- 
nation, may  be  advantageously  varied  by  using  in  their 
confection,  instead  of  prawns, — lobster,  crab,  shrimps, 
oysters,  poultry,  game,  ton§:ue,  bam,  turbot,  sole,  sal 

I  2 


116  THE  OOOK'is  quids.  AMD 

inon,  Sec  And  instead  ot,  or  in  addition  to  celeiy.  Tarn 
any  other  kind  of  salad :  and  further,  instead  of  a  corer* 
ing  of  aspic  jelly,  the  canapees  might  be  smoothly 
masked  over  with  white  mayonaise,  No.  37,  and  a  deoo* 
ration  formed  either  with  tmffle,  lobster  coral,  beetroot, 
or  the  leaves  of  tarragon  or  chervil  traced  thereon,  which 
would  tend  materially  to  enhance  their  appetising  ap- 
pearance. These  canapees  are  admirably  adapted  for 
ball-suppers,  &c. 

No.  337.  DEVILLED  BISCUITS. 

Any  kind  of  thin  biscuit  is  best  suited  for  the 
purpose ;  soak  it  in  pure  Lucca-oil,  strew  cayenne  or 
black  pepper  and  salt  over  both  sides,  and  toast  the 
biscuits  over  the  fire  on  a  gridiron. 

No.  338.-ANCHOVY  TOAST. 

Prepare  some  very  thin  dry  toast,  which  must  be  cut 
into  oblong  or  square  pieces  about  two  inches  in  length 
before  the  toast  becomes  brittle,  and  again  placed  in  the 
oven  to  be  baked  thoroughly  crisp :  spread  these  over 
with  anchovy  butter,  No.  128,  and  upon  this  place  the 
fillets  of  anchovies  in  the  form  of  lattice- work,  and  serve 
on  a  napkin. 

No.  339.— DEVILLED  SALMON,  Ac. 

Prepare  some  biscuits  as  in  No.  337,  and  upon  these 
place  very  thin  slices  of  kippered  salmon  previously 
rubbed  over  with  some  devil  mixture.  No.  131 ;  sala- 
mander or  place  them  either  in  the  oven  or  before  the 
fire,  and  serve  quite  hot. 

Note, — These  devils  may  be  greatly  varied  by  nsuuL 
instead  of  salmon  ~  anchovies,  sardines,  bloaters,  had- 
docks, or  tunny. 

No.  340,— DEVILLED  GAME,  Ic 

Any  kind  of  meat  intended  to  be  devilled  for  a  relish 
or  appetiser,  or  for  the  purpose  of  increasing  the  enjoy- 
ment  of  an  extra  glass  of  wine,  should  first  be  scored  all 


HOUSXEEBPKS'S  AlTD  BUTLBB'B  AtfSIBTANT.  117 

t 

over  by  making  deep  incisions  across  the  pieces  of 
game,  <fec.,  and  rubbing  over  these  some  devil's  mixture, 
Na  131,  until  well  saturated ;  the  meat,  &c.,  must  then 
be  broiled  crisp  without  being  burnt. 

No.  341.— TUNNY. 

This  is  a  fish  caught  only  in  the  Mediterranean,  and 
comes  to  this  country  preserved  in  oil ;  its  f  esh  some- 
what resembles  veal,  and  possesses  a  full  sweet  savour 
— something  between  the  flavour  of  game  and  salmon. 
Tunny  is  served  cut  in  thin  slices  and  dished  up  in 
rows,  surrounded  with  chopped  parsley  and  capers,  and 
a  little  salad-oil. 

No.  842.— SABDINES. 
These  are  a  small  fish  resembling  pilchards,  and  are 
caught  in  large  shoals  off  the  western  coast  of  France ; 
the  lai^ost  quantities .  are  preserved  with  oil  in  small 
sq[aare  tin  boxes  at  a  place  called  Nantes — a  very  largo 
town  near  the  coast — whence  sardines  are  imported  to 
fiiis  oountry.  When  the  box  containing  the  sardines 
has  been  opened  with  a  knife — sold  for  that  purpose  by 
Adams  of  the  Haymarket,  St.  James's — remove  them 
carefully,  and  arrange  them  neatly  on  a  plate ;  garnish 
round  with  capers  or  chopped  parsley ;  pour  a  little 
fresh  salad-oil  over  them,  and  serve  with  thin  bread  and 
butter. 

No.  343.— ANCHOVIES. 

These  are  also  Mediterranean  fish :  they  are  preserved 
in  salt  brine,  and  are  much  esteemed  for  their  delicious 
and  relishing  qualities.  They  must  be  washed,  wiped 
with  a  cloth,  the  fillets  divided  dexterously  by  splitting 
them  down  the  back  with  the  fingers  and  thumbs  ol 
both  hands ;  the  fillets  must  then  be  placed  in  neatly- 
arranged  rows  on  a  plate,  garnished  round  with  chopped 
hard-boiled  egg,  and  salad-oil  poured  over  them.  An- 
chovies served  in  this  manner  are  ever  appreciated  at 
the  breakfast-table,  or  luncheon  time  ;  and  are  considered 
rather  agreeable  accessories  at  the  tea-table. 


118  THE  OOO&'fl   OtrtDK.   AKU 

No.  314.— PICKLtED  FISH. 

Any  kind  of  fisli  left  from  a  previoas  day's  dinner. 
may  bo  pickled  for  breakfisist,  &c.,  by  placing  the  best 
pieces  in  a  deep  dish  with  a  little  of  the  water  in  which 
the  fish  has  been  boiled,  and  adding  thereto  an  eqcal 
quantity  of  vinegar,  a  sliced  onion,  some  green  fennel, 
pepper  and  salt;  the  fish  should  bo  turned  over  fte- 
quently  in  the  pickle,  in  order  thoroughly  to  satorate  it 
with  the  seasoning. 

No.  345.— PICKLED  SAI3I0N. 

Split  the  salmon  down  the  backbone,  and  divide  the 
halves  into  pieces  about  two  hands  in  width;  place 
these  in  an  earthen  pan,  sprinkle  each  piece  with  salt, 
and  black  peppercorns;  pour  in  vinegar  snflScient  to 
cover  them ;  put  the  lid  on  and  set  the  pan  in  the  oven 
to  bake  the  salmon ;  and  when  done,  place  a  piece  of 
board  or  a  dish  on  the  pieces  of  salmon  with  a  weight 
to  press  them  down  in  their  liquor  until  cold.  When 
required  for  use,  dish  up  a  piece  of  salmon  with  some  of 
the  liquor ;  garnish  round  with  fennel  and  serve  it  for 
dinner,  luncheon,  or  supper. 

No.  346.— SOUSED  AIACREBEL. 

These  are  pickled  whole :  they  should  bo  drawn  and 
wiped,  and  treated  in  all  other  respects  as  recoounended 
for  salmon. 

Henings,  pilchards,  or  sprats  are  prepared  in  the 
same  manner. 

No.  347.— OYSTERS. 

Oysters  should  be  served  in  their  deep  shells  with 
^heir  own  liquor,  and  eaten  with  a  fork ;  cayenne  pepper, 
quarters  of  lemon,  brown  bread  aud  butter,  form  tosir 
most  proper  accompaniments. 


boubeksipxb's  and  btttliu'b  assistant.         Ilil 

No.  348.— DEVILLED  OYSTERS. 

Open  the  oysters  in  their  deep  shell,  Beasun  them 
Mrith  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  little  cayenne,  salt,  and 
lemon-juice ;  place  them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  brit^k  fire, 
and  broil  them  for  aljout  three  minntos.  Soi-vo  with 
bread  and  butter. 

No.  349.-PIIAWNS. 

Cut  one  end  of  a  lemon  so  as  to  enable  it  to  stand 
firmly  on  its  base  upon  a  folded  napkin ;  then  stick  the 
proboscis  or  bom  of  the  prawns  into  the  lemon — in 
circular  rows — commencing  at  the  base  of  the  lemon ; 
and  between  each  row  of  prawns  fill  in  the  vacuum 
with  picked  fresh  parsley.  Prawns  dished  up  in  this 
manner  form  a  very  prett}'  dish,  suitable  either  for 
second  course,  breakfast,  or  supper. 

No.  350.— OLIVES. 

Olives  are  imported  to  this  country  firom  Spain,  Poi-tu- 
gal,  Italy,  and  France ;  those  grown  in  the  Lucca  country 
are  esteemed  the  most  palatable  :  being  perfectly  sweet, 
and  free  from  any  strong  flavour,  they  are  served  for 
dessert  in  glasses,  with  a  little  of  their  own  liquor  in 
wliich  they  are  preserved.  Olives  being  first  peeled 
carefully  from  the  stone,  are  filled  in  with  pounded 
anchovy,  and  served  with  a  little  oil  as  an  appetiser  at 
the  commencement  of  dinner,  or  handed  lound  after 
cheese,  the  better  to  relish  a  glass  of  old  port. 

No.  351.— RUSSIAN  KROMESKYS. 

Parboil  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  for  twenty  minutes, 
and  when  quite  cold,  cut  it  into  very  thin  sliavings  an  inch 
and  a  half  square,  and  use  these  to  envelop  as  many 
ordinary-sized  cork-shaped  croquets,  No.  315,  as  may  be 
required  for  the  occasion ;  and  set  them  on  a  dish  in  a 
cold  place  until  it  is  time  to  sei-ve  them :  the  kromeskys 
are  then  to  be  separately  di])ped  in  Imtter,  Ko.  288,  and 


120  TBS  OO/lK*  OUCDl,   ABB 

Cried  in  clean  hot  lard ;  and  when  done  oxisp,  are  to  Kt 
drained  on  a  wire  sieve  covered  with  paper,  diahed  up 
with  fried  parsley,  and  served  immediatelj. 

^0^.— Kromeskys  are  made  with  all  kinds  of  oroqnet 
pi'eparations,  whether  of  meat,  fish,  or  shell-fish. 


No.  352.- DUTCH  HERBINGS. 

These  are  imported  from  Holland,  and  are  salted  in 
small  flat  tubs.  On  the  tab  being  first  opened,  the 
herrings  are  apt  to  emit  a  rather  unpleasant  odour,  but 
this  does  not  aifect  the  flavour  of  the  fish ;  and  when 
tbey  have  been  washed  and  soaked  in  milk  for  a  oouple 
of  houi-s,  all  unpleasantness  is  removed.  Cut  ofif  the 
heads  and  tails  of  the  herrings,  and  divide  each  into 
slices  about  half  an  inch  thick — cut  slantwise;  place 
these  in  a  small  dish,  in  their  natural  position ;  garnish 
round  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eg^ ;  pour  some  vine- 
garet  sauce  over  them,  and  serve  with  the  cheese.  The 
vinegaret  here  alluded  to  is  prepared  as  follows :  Tis.,— 
to  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad-oil  add  one  of  tamgoD 
vinegar,  chopped  parsley  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt , 
and  mix. 

No.  353.-  CROQUETS  OP  MACARONL 

Stir  half  a  pint  of  any  kind  of  good  sauce  over  the 
iire  until  reduced  to  half  its  original  quantity ;  then  add 
three  yolks  of  egp??,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of 
chopped  shalot,  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemuu ;  stir  this  again  over  the  fire  to  set  the  eggs  is 
the  sauce,  and  then  udd  the  following  ingredients  minced 
Hmall  and  neatly :  viz., — a  handful  of  l)oiled  Genoa  maca 
roni,  two  ounces  of  roast  game,  one  ounce  of  lean  ham 
truffles,  mushrooms ;  incorporate  these  with  the  saucf 
and  when  set  cold  and  firm,  divide  the  preparation  int 
equal  small  portions ;  mould  these  in  the  form  of  egp 
3gg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  them  in  hot  laid;  ai 
t)oing  dished  up  with  fried  pai-sley,  serve  hot. 


houskkxbpbb's  ija>  butlbr'b  assibtant.         12X 

No.  854.— ITALIAN  POLPETTI. 

Chop  any  kind  of  meat,  whether  roast  or  boiled,  in 
sufficient  quantity  to  serve  your  purpose — in  ordinaiy 
cases   half  a  pound  would  be  enough;    to  this  add 
truffle,  or  mushrooms,  tongue,  or  ham,  and  two  ounces 
of  grated  Parmesan  or  other  cheese  ;  season  with  shalot, 
nutmeg,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Crosse  and   flack- 
well's  Oude  sauciB.     While  the  above  is  in  course  of 
preparation,  have  ready  the  same  sauce  as  indicated  for 
No.    363 ;    incorporate    the    before-named    ingredients 
therewith;  make  it  all  hot  together  over  the  fire,  and 
spread  it  out  on  a  dish  evenly  and  square,  to  the  thick- 
ness of  a  quarter  of  an  inch ;  and  as  soon  as  cold  and 
firm,  cut  it  out  with  a  plain  tin  round  cutter  an  inch 
and  a  half  in  diameter;  push  the  trimmings  together 
to  form  other  Polpetti;  and  having  egged  and  bread- 
crumbed  them,  fry  them  in  hot  lard,  and  dish  them  up 
roond  some  mac-aroni  prepared  with  cheese  and  a  little 
cream. 

No.  855.— GEEMAN  SCHPEISCHLITZ. 

Put  about  three  gills  of  milk  to  boil  with  four  ounces 
of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  as  the  milk  rises,  stir 
quickly  into  it  six  ounces  of  maize-flour ;  continue  stii- 
ring  the  paste  over  the  ^e  until  it  ceases  to  adhere  to 
tke  sides  of  the  stewpan ;  it  must  then  be  removed 
from  the  fire,  and  three  whole  eggs,  grated  nutmeg, 
pepper  and  salt,  a  little  sugar,  and  some  choj>ped  par- 
sley are  to  be  vigorously  worked  in  with  the  paste. 
^<^xt,  poach  the  schpeischlitz  in  boiling  milk  with  a 
little  salt,  in  the  form  of  teaspoon  quenelles ;  they  will 
^  done  in  about  ten  minutes ;  they  must  be  drained 
^^Mnediately,  and  tossed  lightly  in  some  fried  bread- 
''^^bs,  fried  for  the  purpose  of  a  light  colour,  and 
^rved  quite  hot,  with  either  grated  Gruyere  cheese,  or 
®«e  cinnamon-sugar,  separately,  to  giatify  different 
^''stes.  Different  sorts  of  preserves  are  also  fit  accom- 
pMiiments  to  this  dish,  which  may  thus  be    served 


122  TfUE   COOK'S  GUIDA,    AND 

either  as  a  sweet  in  the  second  course,  or  as  a  savonrr 
to  bo  Landed  round  between  the  courses  of  fish  and 
entrees. 

No.  85G.— GERMAN  QUENELLES. 

Prepare  the  maize-flour  batter  as  in  tbe  foregoing 
case,  adding  thereto  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  leaving  out  the  parsley ;  form  the  qnenelles 
in  tablespoons,  introducing  small  bulls  of  any  kind  of 
croquet-meat  in  their  centre,  which  must  be  covered  in 
with  some  of  the  batter,  and  neatly  and  securely 
fastened  down,  by  smoothing  over  the  surface  with  a 
small  knife  frequently  dipped  in  hot  water :  the  milk  oi 
water  in  which  the  quenelles  are  poached  must  not  be 
allowed  to  boil  at  all,  as  that  would  cause  the  quenelles 
to  burst;  they  must  merely  simmer  gently  for  about  ten 
minutes ;  and  having  asceitained  that  they  are  done, 
drain  and  set  them  to  cool  upon  a  dish  ;  and  wlien  cold, 
dip  each  quenelle  separately  in  some  reduced  Alle 
mande  sauce  ;  replace  them  in  order  on  a  dish  to  be  left 
on  the  ice  until  they  are  become  Arm  on  the  surfiice; 
they  are  then  to  be  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  fried  in 
hot  lard,  dished  on  a  folded  napkin  with  fried  parsley, 
and  served  hot. 

No.  357.-BONNES.BOUCHES. 

Take  about  half  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  game— 8iy 
the  flesh  of  a  groiLse,  partridj:^e,  mbbit,  woodcock,  or 
snipes,  larks,  <fcc. ;  cut  this  up  in  small  squares,  and  fir 
it  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  ham,  chopped  tmflfc. 
mushrooms,  parsley,  and  shalot;  season  with  nntmegi 
|>epper  and  salt;  and  when  done  bi-own,  pound  tho- 
roughly in  the  mortar  with  a  good  spoonful  of  sauce; 
rub  it  thiough  a  wire  sieve,  and  place  the  game  purfc 
thus  produced  in  a  small  stewpan ;  add  the  yolks  ol 
four  eggs,  and  the  four  whites  whisked  into  a  substan- 
tial froth :  mix  lightly,  and  with  this  preparation  fill  t 
dozen  or  more  paper  case8,  see  No.  325;  e^  over  tbi 
to])s  with  a  i)a8te-brush  dipped  in  beaten  white  of  tg^ 


HUUSEEKXPEK-B   AND   BUTLSB'S   ASSIST  ANT.  133 

push  tbem  in  a  moderately-heatod  ovon  to  bako  for 
about  twelve  minutes,  aud  as  soon  as  done,  dish  up  the 
bonnes-bouches  on  a  napkin,  and  serve  immediately,  for 
this  delicate  preparation  is  materially  detenorated  in  it} 
lightness  by  being  kept  waiting  any  length  of  time 
before  it  is  eaten. 

No.  858.—ADBLAIDB  SAND^nCHES. 

Cut  up  chicken   and   cooked  ham,   in  the   form   ol 

small  squares  or  dice,  in  the  proportion  of  two-thirds 

of  chicken  or  fowl  to  one-third  of  liam.     Next,  stir  two 

good  tablespoonfuls  of  sauce  with  one  sijoonful  of  Crosse 

and  Blackwell's  currj"  paste  in  a  stewpan,  and  w^lien  it 

boils,  add  the  chicken  and  ham;  mix,  and  with  this 

lireparation  make  the  sandwiches  in  manner  following  : 

viz., — cut  some  thin  slices  of  stale  crumb  of  bread, 

Rtamp  out  these  with  a  plain  round  tin  cutter  the  size 

of  a  crown-piece,  and  fry  them  in  clarified  butter  of  a 

ligbt-golden   colour;    between  two   of  these   croutons 

place  a  thick  layer  of  the  preparation ;  and  as  this  is 

Jone,  place  them  in  order  on  a  baking-sheet ;  then  put 

npon  tne  tops  a  round  ball — the  size  of  a  small  walnut 

-composed  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and    butter  in 

equal  pai-ts,   and   kneaded    into  a  paste;  push  in  the 

oven  (brisk  heat)  for  five  minutes,  dish  up  on  a  napkin, 

*Dd  serve  as  a  second-course  savoury  dish. 

Aofe. — These  veiy  delicious  appetisers  may  be  also 
prepared  with  equal  success  by  using  any  kind  ol 
cooked  fish  or  shell-fish,  instead  of  game,  &c. 

No.  359.— VICTORIA  SANDWICH  KS. 

Cut  thin  brown  bread  and  butter,  and  bctT\'con  two 
•lices  place  alternate  layers  of  tliinly-sliced  hard-boiled 
^gs,  small  salad  ^r  American  cross,  and  cleansed 
fillets  of  anchovies;  divide  these  slices  into  small 
quares  or  oblongs,  and  serv^e  them  on  a  napkin,  either 
>r  breakfast,  luncheon,  or  supper. 


124  THB  COOK'S  GUIDK,   AMD 

No.  860.— BBETBY  BAKDT¥IGflE8. 

Cut  slices  of  white  bread  and  butter  from  Frencb  toDt, 
and  between  two  slices  place  alternate  layers  of  rerj 
thin  slices  of  roast  fowl,  shred  lettace-leavea,  and  filleti 
of  anchovies ;  dish  np  on  a  napkin,  and  serve. 

No.  361.— IRISH  SANDWICHES. 

Between  slices  of  very  thin  crisp  toast  place  alternate 
layers  of  very  thin  slices  of  roast  game,  shred  celeiy, 
and  Tartar  sauce ;  dish  up  on  a  napkin. 

No.  362.-FISH  SANDWICHES. 

Between  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread  and  batter 
place  thin  scollops  of  cooked  fish  of  any  kind  you  may 
happen  to  have  most  handy ;  spread  a  little  Tartar 
sauce  over  the  pieces  of  fish,  and  strew  some  shred 
lettuce-leaves  over  all ;  press  the  other  slice  of  bread 
and  butter  upon  this ;  cut  up  the  sandwiches  in  squares ; 
lish  up,  and  serve. 

^ote, — Thin  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  or  sliced  Indian 
or  common  gherkins  may  also  be  added  to  the  other  in- 
gredients. 

No.  363.— THE  PRINCE'S  SANDWICH. 

Roast  a  pheasant,  partridge,  or  grouse,  and  when  cold. 
out  all  the  meat  oif,  and  mince  it  into  very  small  and 
neatly-cut  squares ;  to  this  add  a  third  proportion  (A 
truffle  and  tongue  cut  in  the  same  manner,  and  mix  both 
in  some  salmis  sauce  in  which  there  has  been  incoi^ 
porated  a  piece  of  good  glaze ;  set  this  preparation  t(» 
become  cold  and  firm  upon  ice,  and  then  let  it  be  cut 
out  in  shapes  to  suit  the  slices  of  bread  and  butter  cu't 
from  small  milk  rolls. 

No.  364.— SANDWICHES  FOB  BALL-SUPPEBS. 

Cut  a  number  of  thin  scollops  of  either  roast  fowl, 
game,  or  of  any  kind  of  cooked  fish,  or  of  toBJoy* 
lobster,  or  the  tails  of  picked  prawns,  or  cnyfiab* 


FOUSKKSIPIB'B  AMD  BUTLXB*6  A6SISTANT.  12{! 

let  the  scollops  of  fowl  be  masked  over  with  white  may- 

onaise  sauce,  those  of  giime  masked  with  salmis  sauce 

in  which  has  been  mixed  soqie  aspic  jelly ;  the  scollops 

of  fish  masked  over  with  may  onaise  sauce  coloured 

with  chopped  tarragon,  chervil,  and  chives;  and  the 

scollops  of  lobster  or  prawns  or  crayfish-tails  masked 

with  mayonaise  sauce  coloured  with  pounded  lobster 

coral.     Let  the  scollops  so  far  prepared  be  adjusted 

upon  thin  ordutons  of  fried  bread  of  corrospondine  size 

and  shape ;  decorate  their  surface  Avith  trunle,  white  of 

hard  egg,  Indian  pickle,  or  the  loaves  of  tarragon  or 

chervil :  the  details  of  this  sort  of  decoration  are  to  be 

stamped  out  with  fancy  tin  cutters  (to  be  obtained  only 

at  Adams'  kitchen  utensil  warerooms  in  the  Hay  market, 

St.  James's).    These  sandwiches  must  then  bo  dished 

up  in  circular  rows;  some  Italian  salad,  Ko.  372,  to  be 

ptaoed  in  the  centre,  ornamented  round  the  base  with  aspic 

jelly.    They  are  then  to  be  served  to  the  ladies  as  a 

dainty  worUiy  of  their  appreciation. 

No.  365.— ORDINABY  SANDWICHES. 

Between  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  cut — either 
fifwn  half-quartern  brown  or  French  loaves  or  from  rolls, 
place  thin  slices  of  beef,  veal  and  ham,  or  bacon,  mutton » 
poultry,  or  game;  in  any  case,  tlio  meat  sliould  be 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  English  or  French 
mujrtard ;  sliced  pickles  are  sometimes  added.  When  tho 
ttndwiches  have  been  pressed  with  tho  hand,  to  make 
•U  ingredients  adhere  together,  cut  them  in  squares, 
wah  np  on  a  napkin,  and  servo. 


SALADS   IN  GENEKAL. 

No.  366.— ENGLISH  SALAD. 

™^  and  immediately  wipe  with  a  soft  cloth  tho  leaves 

J  *  ripe  ooss-lettuce ;  split  them  down  the  stalk,  and 

\:>l    *^de  each  half  leaf  into  four  pieces ;  place  these  in 


.  1 


126  THE  OOOCB   OUIDXy   AXD 

a  salad-bowl  with  a  few  fresh-gathered  leaves  of  groea 
mint ;  season  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salad-oil,  two  of 
vinegar,  a  dessort-spoonful  of  moist  sugar,  pepper  and 
salt ;  mix  and  serve. 

No.  367.— AXOTHEB  ENGLISH  SALAD. 
Take  equal  parts  of  lettuce,  shred  celery,  water-cress, 
small  salad,  beetroot,  and  spring  radishes;  thoroughly 
wash  them  for  a  few  minutes,  and  when  drained  m  a 
oloth,  gather  up  the  four  comers  into  the  right  hand, 
and  shako  out  all  the  water.  Next,  put  the  salad  in  a 
bowl ;  season  with  equal  proportions  of  oil  and  vinegar, 
two  or  three  chopped  green  unions,  pepper  and  «ut; 
mix  and  serve. 

No.  368.— ANOTHER  ENGLISH  SALAD. 
Prepare  a  salad  composed  as  follows :  viz., — a  cab- 
bage lettuce,  a  head  of  endive,  shred  celery,  and  slices  of 
beetroot ;  season  with  a  salad  mixture  composed  as  fol- 
lows :  viz., — place  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  in 
a  basin  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  ditto  of  made  mustard 
and  a  little  pepper  ;  with  the  back  part  of  the  bowl  of 
a  wooden  spoon,  bruirse  the  yolks  and  mix  in  gradually 
witb  them  a  good  tablespoonful  of  double  cream ;  ntter 
which  further  incorporate  therewith  half  a  gill  of  salad- 
oil  and  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  vinegar;  the  sanoe 
finished,  use  it  as  directed  above. 

No.  369.— OUCUMBER  SALAD. 
First  peel  and  then  cut  the  cucumber  in  thin  slices; 
season  with  equal  parts  of  salad-oil  and  vinegar,  and 
also  equal  parts  of  pepper  and  salt.  The  addition  of  « 
few  very  thin  slices  of  raw  onion  renders  raw  cncum- 
ber  less  indigestible. 

No.  370.— A  FfiENCH  SALAD. 

It  is  not  customary  in  France  to  mix  different  kind* 

of  salads  in  the  same  bowl.   ^Vbile  I  am  bound  to  adn^| 

that  this  difference  in  custom  is  mainly  the  resnlt  <h 

taste;   I   humbly  submit  that,   inasmuch  as  the  s^ 


HOUSEKKJIPXB'S   AKD   BUTLBB's  ASSISTANT.  127 

^  of  small  salad,  or  endive,  or  American  cress,  with 
kinds. of  lettuce — independently  of  the  fact  that 
9  kills  the  flavour  of  the  other— destroys  the  cha- 
of  a  French  ^salad;  it  also  interferes  with  the 
r  of  salads. 

longh  a  French  salad  should  consist  of  one  kind 
t  must  also  be  rigorously  borne  in  mind  that  the 
must  never  be  allowed  to  soak  in  water,  but 
r  to  be  rinsed,  and  gently  wiped  or  shaken  in  a 
^in  France  they  use  very  light  wicker-baskets  for 
urpose).  The  lettuce  should  be  split  down  the 
each  piece  divided  in  three  or  four,  at  most ;  and 
lad  being  completed,  is  to  be  seasoned  in  manner 
ing :  viz., — to  half  a  gill  of  salad-oil  add  a  table- 
Enl  of  tarragon  vinegar,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt 
,  little  pepper,  some  coarsely-chopped  tarragon, 
I,  and  chives,  or  spring-onions.  The  seasoning 
i  be  mixed  in  a  separate  basin,  poured  to  the 
first  before  using  it,  and  lightly  yet  thoroughly 

e. — In  order  to  relieve  the  apparent  monotony  of 
h  salads,  it  may  be  well  to  observe,  that  monk's- 
,  or  dandelion,  or  endives,  or  escarolles,  are  usually 
I  with  beetroot,  also  with  corn-salad  when  in  season. 

371.— BEETROOT  AND  SPANISH  ONION  SAIAD. 

ke  or  boil  a  Spanish  onion  whole,  and  when  cold, 
i  in  slices,  and  dish  them  alternately  with  slices  of 
i  or  baked  beetroot ;  pour  over  the  salad  a  season- 
jomposed  of  two  spoonfuls  of  oil.  one  of  vinegar, 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 
ie. — This  kind  of  salad  is  specially  adapted  to  be 
I  with  roast  or  braized  meats. 

No.  372.— ITALIAN  SALAD, 

alian  salads  are  composed  of  every  variety  of  raw 
is,  added  to  all  kinds-  of  meat  or  fish,  and  cooked 
'tables ;  and  also  of  tunny,  anchovies,  oli  ves  capers, 
pickies. 


128  THK  cook's  criJiDK.  abb" 

Cut  two  cold  potatoes  and  half  a  beetroot  in  i 
balf  an  inch  thick,  punch  these  ont  with  a  long 
vegetable  cntter,  and  put  them  into  a  basin  wiih  c 
quantities  of  green  peas,  heads  of  asparagus,  bui 
cauliflower  or  brocoli,  small  Windsor  beans^  cut  Ff 
beans,  boiled  celery,  seakale,  Bmssels  sprouts,  ooi 
haricot  beans  or  lentils.  Let  it  be  clearly  unden 
that,  although  every  kind  of  v^etable  named  a 
form  component  parts  of  an  Italian  salad,  yet  it  U 
intended  that  they  should  all  be  used  for  that  pui 
at  one  and  the  same  time :  due  regard  must  be  ha 
what  is  in  season,  without  losing  sight  of  the 
that,  in  all  cases,  it  is  essential  to  study  economy 
convenience: — ^thus,  for  instance,  beetroot  and  ] 
toes  being  at  all  times  easily  obtained,  let  these 
some  kind  of  salad  in  season  bo  mixed  in  equal  pru 
tions ;  to  these  add  any  three  or  four  soils  of  coc 
vegetables  you  may  happen  to  have,  a  little  shred  I 
fowl  or  game,  tunny,  anchovies,  pickles,  or  olr 
season  with  vinegar  or  Tartar  sauce,  mix  lightly  tc^et 
and  serve  in  a  salad-bowl. 

Note. — These  salads  are  also  used  for  garnishing  a 
borders,  and  cold  entries  of  fish. 

No.  373.-.SPANISH  SALAD. 

Cut  two  or  three  ripe  tomatas  in  slices,  and  dish  tl 
up  in  a  circular  row  in  a  salad-bowl  or  dish ;  fill 
centre  with  either  small  Windsor  beans,  French  be 
garban^as  or  Spanish  peas,  pickled  button-onions,  li 
green  peas,  or  haricot  beans :  all,  or  any  of  these 
suit  convenience  and  taste,  should  be  gently  mi 
with  some  mayonaise  sauce:  the  salad  when  finis 
is  to  be  sauced  over  with  vinegaret, — the  ordin 
seasoning  for  French  salads. 

No.  874.— RUSSIAN  SALAD. 

This  is  composed  of  cooked  carrots,  beetroot,  j 
snips,  either  punched  or  scooped  in  shapes,  or  mei 
out  !n  neatly-formed  squares  or  oblongs ;  to  these  a 


3-«| 


houbxkxbpkb's  and  butlsb's  assistant.         129 

oomiaon  gherkins  also  cut,  a  few  capers,  some  soruped 
horseradish,  lobster  or  prawns,  or  ham,  or  any  kind  of 
meat  out  up  in  small  squares ;  season  with  mayonaise, 
vinegaret,  or  Tartar  sauce  ;  and  when  dished  up  either 
in  a  Dowl,  or  in  an  aspio,  or  cold  Tcgotable  border,  gar- 
nish the  BurfsM3e  of  the  salad  with  very  small  round 
balls  of  Russian  caviare,  to  be  obtained  at  Crosse  and 
Blaokwell'fi,  Soho-square. 

No.  875.— FLEMISH  SALAD. 

Prepare  two  Dutch  herrings  as  indicated  in  No.  352 ; 
and  to  these  pieces  of  herrings  add  two  apples  peeled 
and  shred,  some  beetroot  and  potatoes  cut  in  squares,  a 
few  Brussels  sprouts,  a  few  green  onions,  and  picked 
fihrimps,  and  some  curled  celery;  season  with  oil, 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  The  vegetables  must  be 
cooked. 

Note, — Any  kind  of  dried  or  pickled  fish  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  herrings,  if  preferred. 

No.  876.— GEBMAN  SALAD. 

Cnt  cold  potatoes,  Brussels  sprouts,  scakale,  cauli- 
flower, or  brocoli,  or  any  kind  of  boiled  cabbage,  in 
slices;  season  with  oil  and  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt, 
Mid  chopped  parsley.  Beetroot  and  shred  raw  apples 
loay  also  be  added. 

No.  877.— CAZANOVA  SALAD. 

Shred  the  white  stalks  of  two  heads  of  celery  in  inch 
lengths,  and  put  these  in  a  salad-bowl  with  the  -whites 
cf  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  shred;  season  with 
^hite  mayonaise  sauce,  and  a  little  shalot ;  strew  over 
^c  surface  of  the  salad  the  yolks  of  hard  eggs  pre- 
viously rubbed  through  a  \vire  sieve  for  the  purpose. 

No.  378.— SALAD  A  LA  RACnEL. 

^pare  the  shred  celery  and  eggs  as  in  the  foregoing 
^;  season  them  with  Prince  of  Wales'  sauce,  Ko.  81, 
pile  up  Hghtly  in  the  salad-bowl,  garnish  round  the 

K 


130  THB  cook's  guidi,  asd 

base  of  the  salad  with  thin  slices  of  German 

ham;   sprinkle   over  the  earSauoe^  first,  the 

yolks  of  eggs,  and  next,  some  black  trnffles  shred  fine. 

This  has  a  very  charming  effect,  and  is  conaidexed  a 

wonderfid  stimulant. 

No.  379.— VEGETABLE  SALADS. 

Any  kind  of  cooked  cold  vegetables  serves  the  pur- 
pose ;  either  sort  may  be  mixed  together  in  the  same 
salad,  and  for  variety  sake,  or  according  to  taste,  any 
kind  of  salad,  or  meat,  or  fish,  may  be  added;  season 
with  oil,  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt,  with  or  without 
onion  or  shaJot,  to  suit  your  feincy. 

No.  380.— HAMBOBO'  SALAD. 

Prepare  a  salad  composed  of  any  kind  of  lettuce, 
endive,  celery,  &c. ;  to  this  add  a  few  slices  of  yomig 
potatoes,  apple,  smoked  salmon,  and  anchovies ;  season 
with  oil,  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt;  and  strew  lightly 
over  the  surface  some  grated  Hamboro'  beef;  gamisH 
round  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


EODBKBJEKPKB  a  AUD  BUTLSB  8  ASSISTANT.  181 


OHAPTER  Vli. 

BEMOVES  IN  GENEBAL. 

"Es  are  large  dishes  placed  at  the  top  or  bottom 
f  a  dinner-table,  or  served  &om  the  side-table : 
nostly  consist  of  roast,  boiled,  braized,  or  other- 
ligbly-dressed  meats,  &o. 

No.  381.— BOAST  SIBLOIN  OP  BEEF. 

liece  of  sirloin  of  beef,  in  order  to  have  any  chance 
rfection  when  cooked,  should  not  weigh  less  than 
n  pounds ;  it  will  take  about  two  hours  and  a  haK 
ist  it,  before  a  good  fire:  it  must  be  kept  at  a 
ce  of  eighteen  inches  from  the  ^ate.  Baste 
jntly,  with  the  fat  placed  in  the  dripping-pan ;  and 
rter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  shake  a  little  salt 
)me  flour  all  over  it ;  and  when  it  is  removed  from 
)it,  and  placed  upon  its  dish,  pour  over  some  good 
',  or  hot  water  and  a  little  brown  colouring ;  serve 
itely,  some  scraped  horseradish,  or  else  some  horse- 
1  sauce,  No.  78 ;  and  in  a  separate  dish,  a  piece  of 
shire  pudding.  No.  298. 

No.  882.— BOAST  BIBS  OF  BEEF. 

piece  of  ribs  of  beef  intended  for  roasting  should 
st  of  not  less  than  three  or  four  ribs ;  the  chine- 
and  also  the  upper  part  of  the  rib-bones  should  be 
'^ed  by  sawing  them  off;    the  flap-ends  fastened 

E  2 


132  THE  cook's  guide,  ahd 

under  neatly  witli  wooden  skewers,  and  equally  bt- 
lanced  on  the  spit  The  ribs  of  beef  should  then  be 
toasted  in  much  the  same  manner  as  indicated  for  the 
treatment  of  sirloin  of  beef. 

No.  383.--BOILED  BOUND  OF  BEEF. 

A  ronnd  of  beef  being  a  large  joint,  it  necessarily 
follows  that  it  is  seldom  dressed  in  small  ^milies,  where 
it  would  be  considered  an  extravagance ;  althot^h,  when 
due  regard  is  had  to  practical  economy,  by  usiDg 
thriftiness  and  care  in  turning  to  account  the  remains  d 
this  or  any  other  large  joint,  by  referring  to  the  almost 
innumerable  forms  of  made-dishes  contained  in  this 
work,  the  amount  of  extravagance  incurred  becomfi' 
very  sensibly  diminished ;  and,  as  moreover  it  is  a  hci, 
that  a  small  round  cut  from  a  well-fed  Soot,  or  • 
Durham  ox  is,  occasionally,  a  most  desirable  thinf^ 
it  is  essential  that  it  should  be  well  dressed:  pny 
remember,  that  this  requires  great  care.  Procure  • 
round  of  beef  well  furnished  with  rich  delicate-lookiiig 
fat;  take  out  the  kernels,  and  salt  it  in  the  nam 
manner :  that  is,  with  clean,  cold  hands  rub  in  and  all 
over  it  about  four  pounds  of  salt,  turning  it  over  in  the 
brine,  and  rubbing  it  well  with  tiie  salt  every  morning 
for  about  ten  days :  by  this  time,  the  round  of  beef  will 
oe  ready  for  use.  Next,  after  removing  the  round  from 
the  brine,  fold  it  into  shape  by  pulling  the  flap-pieoe 
close  to  the  buttock ;  well  fststen  it  with  skewers,  and  in 
order  to  maintain  it  in  proper  shape  while  it  is  boiling 
bind  it  neatly  and  tighdy  all  round  with  a  piece  of  ta^ 
called  webbing ;  put  it  on  in  a  sufficiently  large  pot  in 
cold  water,  bearing  in  mind  that  it  must  never  be 
allowed  to  boil  fast,  as  that  always  spoils  the  best  mli 
meat,  by  rendering  it  hard  and  stringy:  when  the 
round  has  boiled  very  gently  for  about  five  hours  (to- 
cording  to  the  weight),  take  it  up,  trim  away  the  aoued 
parts  of  the  fat,  stick  in  four  silver  skewers  to  keep  it  ii 
shape,  cut  off  the  first  slice,  garnish  it  round  tlie  hisi 


HOUSXKEEPBB*S  AND  BUTLEB's  ASSISTANT.  188 

with  well-shaped  boiled  carrots  and  parsnips;  pour 
some  of  its  liquor  coloured  with  a  litde  browning  over 
it,  and  serve  a  suet  pudding,  No.  299,  or  dumpling  and 
summer  cabbages  in  separate  dishes.  A  sauce-boat  filled 
^th  sauce  piquante  would  prove  rather  a  pleasant 
accompaniment  to  this  brave  old  English  solidity. 

No.  884.— BOILED  AITCH-BONE  OP  BEEP. 

Salt  the  aitch-bone,  and  boil  it  with  care  as  directed 
for  the  round ;  and  garnish  it  in  the  same  manner.  All 
other  joints  of  salt  beef  are  to  be  treated  similarly. 

No.  385.— EOLLED  THIN  FLANK  OF  BEEP. 

Take  a  piece  of  thin  flank,  weighing  about  eight 
pounds, — it  should  be  cut  as  nearly  square  as  possible ; 
let  it  be  cured  in  the  same  manner  as  pressed  beef, 
No.  393,  for  three  days  only  ;  it  is  then  to  be  removed 
baa  the  brine,  washed  and  wiped  dry,  and  spread  but 
sqoare  and  flat  by  striking  it  all  over  with  a  cutlet-bat, 
(see  Adams*  Illustrations).  Next,  place  a  pudding  of 
WghljHseasoned  veal  stufifing.  No.  294,  or  Godiveau, 
^0.  190,  in  the  centre,  and  roll  it  up  tightly  in  the 
W;  sew  up  the  side  and  ends  with  trussing-needle 
and  string,  to  keep  it  in  a  bolster-like  form,  while  braiz- 
ing. Place  the  roll  in  a  braizing-pan  (see  Adams'  Illus- 
trations), with  carrot,  onions,  celery,  a  bunch  made  with 
parsley,  thyme,  and  bay-leaf,  six  cloves,  a  bit  of  mace, 
and  stock,  or  water  sufficient  to  cover  the  beef ;  simmer 
gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  four  hours ;  and  when 
done  tender,  take  it  up  without  undoing  the  string,  and 
pnt  the  roll  of  beef  in  press  between  two  dishes,  with  a 
fourteen-pound  weight  on  the  top.  When  the  beef  is 
nearly  cold,  remove  the  string,  trim  it  free  from  any 
rough  or  discoloured  parts,  and  set  it  to  warm  in  a 
balaiig-dish  with  a  litt^a  of  its  own  stock,  the  greater 
part  of  which,  after  being  freed  from  all  grease,  and 
thickened  with  either  a  large  spoonful  of  flour  or  some 


134  THS  oook's  ottide,  akd 

brown  thickening,  No.  9,  worked  smooth,  boiled,  skim- 
med, and  finished  by  adding  a  glass  of  wine  and  a 
small  pinch  of  cayenne,  will  serve  to  pour  over  the 
roll  of  beef,  garnished,  when  sent  to  table,  ronnd  the  base 
with  glazed  carrots  and  onions, — see  Nos.  107  and  108. 

No.  386.— BRAIZED  ROLL  OF  BEEP  A  LA  BEAKNAISE. 

Prepare  the  roll  of  beef  as  indicated  in  the  for^^ing 
number,  and  when  dished  np,  garnish  round  the  base 
with  tomatas  au  gratin  (see  dressed  vegetables) ;  pour 
some  tomata  sauce,  or  else  its  own  gravy — clarified  and 
boiled  down  to  the  consistency  of  half  glaze, — ^roimd, 
glaze  the  beef,  and  send  to  table. 

No.  387.— STEWED  RUMP  OF  BEEF. 

This  piece  of  beef  is  considered  the  best  for  stewing, 
or  braizing,  and  should  be  chosen  of  fine  quality  for  tfa^ 
purpose,  of  a  deep  bright-red  colour,  rich  grained,  and  well 
covered  with  a  thick  coating  of  delicate  fat  Bone  the 
beef,  and  after  having  trinmied  it,  secure  its  shape  with 
string,  and  braize  or  stew  it  as  directed  for  rolls  of 
beef;  when  done  and  trimmed,  garnish  it  witb  a  Jar- 
diniere, or  with  dressed  macaroni,  or  raviolis,  or  dressed 
Brussels  sprouts,  or  glazed  onions  and  carrots ;  pour 
either  piquante  sauce,  poivrade,  or  tomata,  round  its 
base ;  glaze  the  beef,  and  serve. 

No.  888.— RIBS  OF  BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Trim  and  prepare  three  short  ribs  of  beef,  by  inserting 
in  the  round  fleshy  part,  long  square  strippets  of  bacon 
seasoned  with  spice  and  herbs ;  and  braize  them  with 
their  trimmings,  and  carrot,  celery,  garnished  bonqnet 
of  parsley,  thyme  and  bay-leaf,  salt,  an  onion  stuck  with 
a  dozen  cloves,  and  enough  stock  or  water  to  cover  the 
beef.  Set  the  beef  to  boil  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire,  with 
live  embers  on  the  lid  of  the  braizing-pan ;  and  when  it 
has  stewed  in  this  manner  for  about  four  hours,  take  it  up 


HOCSSESEPSE's  and  liUTLBE's  ASSISTANT.  IC^ 

L  trim  it  neatly  without  waste,  and  place  it  on  its  dish 
the  hot  closet.  Next,  free  the  stock  from  all  grease, 
tin  and  clarify  it,  and  having  boiled  it  down  to  the 
sistency  of  half*glaJ!^,  use  this,  after  garnishing  the 
ip  as  indicated  in  No.  385,  to  pour  over  it : — it  may 
>  be  sauced  with  poivrade,  tomata,  or  piquante  sauce. 

No.  389.— FILLET  OF  BEEF  LARDED. 

Vocnre  a  piece  of  fillet  of  beef,  such  as  might  be  re- 
red  for  the  puiposo  from  a  piece  of  sirloin  which 
lid  serve  very  well  the  next  day  for  roasting,  and 
h  a  sharp  knife  pare  off  the  sinewy  covering  of  the 
jt,  and  lard  the  smooth  suiface  with  small  shreds  of 
bacon  an  inch  and  a  quarter  long,  and  about  the  six- 
ith  part  of  an  inch  square ;  these  are  to  be  inserted 
straight  rows,  across  the  fillet,  and  arranged  so  that 
ii  row  dovetails  into  the  other,  thus  forming  a  cor- 
;  series  of  rows  representing  raised  basket-work. 
)  fillet  should  now  be  placed  in  the  braizing-pan  upon 
irainer,  garnished  with  the  trimmings,  carrot,  celery^ 
iLshed  ioouquet,  two  onions  with  three  cloves  in  each, 
ade  of  mace,  and  a  good  spoonful  of  salt,  moistened 
li  suflScient  stock  or  water  to  just  barely  reach  up 
he  commencement  of  the  larding,  and  set  to  braize, 
er  in  a  brisk  oven  or  over  a  slow  fire  with  live 
)er8  on  the  lid  of  the  pan  ;  it  will  take  about  two 
rs'  very  gentle  stewing  to  cook  it  quite  mellow  and 
ier.  When  the  fillet  is  done,  remove  it  on  to  a  dish, 
set  it  in  the  oven  to  dry  the  larding ;  glaze  it  over 
dish  it  up.  Strain  the  liquor,  free  it  from  grease, 
ify  and  reduce  it  to  half-glaze,  to  be  served  as  a 
)e ;  or  else  incorporate  it  with  any  sauce  fitted  for 
ized  meats ;  garnish  the  fillet  round  the  base  with 
itoes  cut  in  the  form  of  walnuts  or  large  olives,  and 
i  in  butter,  altei^nately  placed  with  groups  of  green 
i,  cauliflower,  French  Iboans,  or  else  with  a  Jardiniere, 
iac^doine  of  vegetables ;  pour  the  sauce  round,  and 
'e. 


136  THB  cook's  guide,   A5D 

No.  390.— FILLET  OP  BEEP  A  LA  NAFOLITAINBL 

Prepare  tbe  fillet  as  in  the  forgoing  BumbeT,  and 
when  dished  np,  garnish  if  at  each  end  with  gronpe  of 
raviolis  No.  167;  in  each  fiank  or  side  of  the  dish 
place  a  vase  or  cnp.  formed  of  turnip,  and  jnst  scalded 
in  salt  and  water  coloured  with  a  few  drops  of  cochineal; 
these  are  to  be  filled  with  white,  fresh^craped  bane- 
radish  ;  pour  some  Neapolitan  soaoe,  Na  59,  over  th» 
fillet,  and  serve. 

No.  391.— FILLET  OP  BEEF  A  LA  RICHEIJEU. 

Trim  the  fillet  as  for  larding,  bnt  instead  of  lazdiug 
the  smooth  snrface  as  in  the  former  case,  it  is  to  be 
neatly  covered  with  a  thin  layer  of  beef-snet,  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  fastened  on  with  string  tied  all 
along  the  fillet  at  distances  of  an  inch  from  each 
other.  The  fillet  is  to  be  braized  in  all  respects  as  in 
the  foregoing  cases,  excepting  that  a  glass  of  wine  or 
brandy  should  be  added.  ^^  hen  done,  clarify,  reduce, 
and  incorporate  the  stock  with  some  fiicheliea  aance 
No.  63 ;  garnish  round  the  base  with  qnenelles,  tndfiet, 
mushrooms ;  pour  the  sance  over  all,  and  serve  qnite  hoc 

No.  392.— BRAIZED  FILLET  OF  BEEF  A  LA  HILTON. 

Braize  either  a  fillet  or  a  rolled  piece  of  thin  end  of 
sirloin  of  beef  (previonsly  boned)  in  the  nsnal  manner, 
and  when  done,  mask  the  whole  of  the  upper  part  with 
a  thin  coating  of  very  finely-chopped  green  gherkins 
which  have  been  mixed  into  the  consistency  of  a  paste 
by  the  addition  of  a  piece  of  good  glaze  and  four  raw 
yolks  of  eggs :  this  most  be  stirred  over  the  fire  for  a 
few  minutes  to  partially  set  the  ^gs  withont  cnrdlii^ 
them,  as  that  wonld  make  the  preparation  crumble, 
and  thus  prevent  it  from  adhering  to  the  meat.  The 
surface  being  smoothed  over  with  a  knife  dipi^ed  in  hot 
water,  place  on  it  a  neatly-composed  design,  repreaentiDg 


HOUSXKEXPEB'S  and   BUTLKB*S   A8SI8TAKT.  187 

a  large  star,  a  basket  of  fruits,  &o.,  consisting  of  carrots, 
turnips,  French  beans,  peas,  heads  of  asparagus,  <&c.,  pre- 
vioTudy  shaped  and  boiled  for  the  purpose ;  garnish  the 
beef  round  the  base  with  a  varied  Jardiniere,  and  a 
border  of  dessert-spoon  quenelles  decorated  with  truffle 
and  tongue ;  serve  poivrade  sauce  separately  in  a  sauce- 
boat. 

Note. — ^Rumps,  rolls,  and  fillets  of  beef  may  also  be 
finished,  and  served  in  a  greater  variety  of  ways,  by  sub- 
stituting any  other  appropriate  garnish  or  sauce  instead 
of  those  herein  indicated.  If  preferred,  the  fillets  may 
be  roasted  and  served  with  the  same  garnishes  and 
sauces. 

No.  393.— PRESSED  BEEP. 

Pressed  beef  may  be  prepared  with  either  briskets,  or 

thick  or  thin  flank  of  beef :  the  beef  must  first  undergo 

curing  in  manner  following:  viz., — to  six  pounds  of 

common  salt,  add  six  ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  a  pound 

of  moist  sugar,  some  bruised  bay-leaves,  thyme,  basil, 

marjoram,  winter  savory,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  ditto 

of  mace  and  of  peppercorns,  and  three  cloves  of  garlic ; 

mix  this  well  together  by  pounding  it  in  a  mortar,  and 

rub  it  well  into  the  piece  of  beef  intended  to  be  cured 

or  pickled :  the  beef  must  remain  in  the  brine  or  pickle 

for  about  twelve  days,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

AVhen  about  to  cook  the  beef,  lot  it  be  rolled  up  and 
fastened  in  a  cloth  by  sewing  up  the  opening  and  other- 
wise cording  it  with  twine,  in  the  form  of  a  bolster ; 
put  it  in  a  large  pot  with  cold  water  to  boil  very  gently 
for  about  four  or  five  hours — according  to  weight  and 
tliickness ;  and  when  the  beef  is  done,  let  it  be  put  in 
press  between  two  dishes  with  heavy  weights  on  the 
top.    W  hen  the  beef  has  become  perfectly  cold,  take  it 
out  of  tiie  cloth,  trim  and  glaze  it  over,  garnish  with 
aspic  jelly,  or  mei'ely  with  picked  parsley ;  and  serve 
either  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  dinner,  or  supper. 


138  THE  COOKS   GUIDS,   ASD 

No.  394.— OX-TONGUE, 

Oz-tongnes  being  sold  ready  pickled  or  emoked,  it 
becomes  almost  needless  to  give  instmctions  for  'diat 
part  of  their  preparation ;  it  will  suffice  to  say,  that 
to  effect  the  cnring  of  tongues,  it  will  be  only  neoeawy 
to  refei;  to  the  instmctions  for  pickling  pressed  beel 

ITie  tongue  should  be  boiled  very  slowly  for  about  two 
hours  and  a  half;  and  when  done,  plunged  into  cold 
water  to  enable  you  to  remove  the  furred  coating  or  skm ; 
it  should  then  be  placed  with  the  root  end  up  against  a 
piece  of  board  set  close  to  the  wall  by  the  draser ;  and 
by  sticking  a  strong  fork  in  the  top  of  the  tongue,  it  will 
by  this  means  be  curbed  and  held  in  an  erect  and  ele- 
gant  form,  until  set  quite  cold.  ITie  tongue  must  then 
be  trimmed  and  glazed,  if  intended  to  be  eaten  cold ; 
and  if  it  is  to  be  served  hot,  should  be  wrapped  up  in  a 
sheet  of  greased  paper  and  warmed  in  hot  water  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  previously  to  its  being  garnished, 
either  with  dressed  spinach,  sprouts,  cauliflowerB, 
brocoli.  Jardiniere,  Macldoine,  &c. ;  and  served  either 
as  a  small  remove,  or  flank  dish,  or  even  as  an  entrfe ; 
in  which  case  it  may  also  be  garnished  with  macanmi, 
braized  cabbage,  sauce  tomata,  piquante,  poivrade,  dw. 

No.  395.— BRAIZED  OX-CHEEK, 

Braize  and  press  an  ox-cheek  as  directed  in  Na  14^3 ; 
then  cut  it  into  oblong  pieces  measuring  about  two  and 
half  inches  lone;  bv  one  inch  and  a  half  wide,  trim  awav 
the  comers  and  asperities  so  as  to  shape  them  neatly, 
and  place  them  in  order  in  a  sautapan,  with  some  of  the 
stock  they  have  been  braized  in,  and  which  has  been 
clarified,  and  boiled  down  to  the  consistancv  of  half- 
glaze ;  use  the  remainder  of  this  half-glaze  either  as  a 
sauce  for  the  entree,  or  else  let  it  be  incorporated  with 
the  sauce  intended  for  the  dish,  such  as  piquante,  poiv- 
rade,  tomata,  Financiere,  <tc.  The  pieces  of  ox-cheek, 
when  hot,  are  to  be  dished  up  similarly  to  cntlets,  the 
centre  garnished  with   one   of  the  variety  of  dressed 


HOUSKKSXPEB'S  AMI)   BUTLEB'S   ABSISTAin*.  189 

vegetables  reoommended  to  be  servod  with  ox-tongues ; 
the  sattoe  poured  over  and  round  the  scollops,  and  served 
either  as  a  remove  dish  or  an  entree,  as  may  best  sui^ 
conyenience. 

Ko.  896.— HUNTING  BEEF. 

A  round  of  beef  is  mostly  used  for  this  purpose,  and 
flhoTild  be  cured  according  to  the  directions  given  for 
euiing  pressed  beef,  No  393  :  the  round  should  remain 
in  the  pickle  for  a  fortnight,  in  order  that  it  may  become 
thoroughly  flavoured  with  the  spices,  <fec.  AVhen  the 
round  of  beef  is  sufficiently  saturated,  tie  it  up  to 
secure  its  shape,  in  the  manner  directed  in  Ko.  383,  and 
boil  it  either  in  small  beer  or  ale ;  or,  if  this  is  con- 
sidered too  extravagant,  in  water,  remembering  that  it 
must  boil  slowly.  It  will  take  about  five  hours'  cooking ; 
but  the  length  of  time  necessarily  vary  much  depends 
on  its  sizo  and  weight.  ^Vhon  done,  dish  up  the  round 
with  alternate  groups  of  boiled  carrots,  parsnips,  greens, 
and  small  dumplings. 

Note. — ^Eoimas,  or  any  other  joint  of  beef,  prepared 
in  the  foregoing  manner,  are  more  frequently  sent  to 
table  cold,  for  breakfast  or  luncheon,  especially  at 
Christmas  time,  when  they  are  considered  a  desirable 
feature  on  the  side-board. 

No.  397.--ROAST  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

Veal,  to  be  in  perfection,  should  if  possible  be  pro- 
cured fresh  killed,  as  it  does  not  improve  by  being  kept. 
Take  out  the  bone  from  a  good  fat  fillet  of  veal,  and 
with  the  bat  flatten  the  udder ;  make  a  deep  incision 
between  the  udder  and  the  fillet  with  a  knife,  and  fill  it 
with  veal-stuffing.  No.  294;  sew  it  u\)  with  small 
twine,  wrap  the  udder  tightly  round  the  fillet,  and 
secure  its  shape  with  skewers  and  twine  :  spit  the  fillet 
in  the  usual  manner,  cover  it  with  buttered  paper,  roast 
it  for  about  two  hours  and  a  half :  just  before  it  is  done, 
take  off  the  paper,  and  after  shaking  some  flour  over 
it  from  a  dredger,  baste  the  fillet  with  a  little  fi^sh 


140  THE  GOOK'r  GUTUE,  AND 

butter,  and  froth  it,  then  dish  it  up,  pour  round  it  some 
melted  butter  coloured  with  a  little  browning  and  lemon- 
juice  ;  garnish  round  with  potato  croquets,  and  serve 
some  boiled  bacon  with  greens,  separately. 

Note. — Fillets  of  veal  roasted,  as  shown  in  the  fore- 
going instructions,  and  dished  up,  may  also  be  gaxnished 
with  Jardinieres  or  Mac^oines,  or  a  Financi^re  or  Tou- 
louse ragout  Fillets  of  veal  may  also  be  braized  after 
the  manner  indicated  for  braizing  necks  or  breasts  of 
veal,  and  garnished  similarly. 

Jfo.  398.--BOAST  NECK  OP  VEAL. 

Saw  off  the  scrag  end  and  spine-bone  from  a  neck  of 
veal,  shorten  the  ribs  to  four  inches  in  length,  run  a 
stout  iron  skewer  through  the  neck  of  veal  lengthwise, 
and  secure  it  on  the  spit  by  tying  it  with  string  at  each 
end ;  roast  it  before  a  clear  fire  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
quarter,  basting  it  frequently  with  dripping  from  the 
pan ;  and  when  nearly  done,  froth  it  over  by  fthAlring 
some  flour  upon  it,  and  then  baste  it  with  a  little  batter 
dissolved  for  the  purpose  in  a  spoon;  in  about  ten 
minutes  it  must  be  removed  from  the  fire  and  dished 
up ;  pour  some  white  sauce  round  it  and  serve. 

Note, — Eoast  neck  of  veal  may  also  be  served  in  all 
respects  as  directed  for  fillet  of  veaL 

No.  399.--BRAIZED  NECK  OF  VEAL. 

Trim  a  neck  of  veal  as  in  the  preceding  number,  place 
it  in  a  braizing-pan  on  a  bed  of  sliced  carrot,  onions, 
celery,  and  a  garnished  bouquet ;  moisten  with  enough 
stock  or  water,  just  barely  to  cover  the  veal,  and  set 
it  to  stew  or  braize  over  a  slow  ^le  for  about  an  hour 
and  three-quarters ;  then  remove  the  neck  of  veal  on 
to  a  dish;  strain  and  free  its  stock  from  all  grease, 
boil  it  down  to  balf-glaze,  and  use  this  to  baste  the  veal 
in  the  oven  until  it  assumes  a  bright  glossy  surface. 
The  neck  of  veal  must  now  be  dished  up  and  garnished 
with  stewed  peas,  or  with  glazed  onions  and  carrots,- 


HOUBXKBKPXa'S  AND  BUTLSB'S  A8SI6TAKT.  141 

and  the  lemamder  of  its  glaze  must  be  mixed  with  some 
brown  sauoe,  and  poured  neatly  round  the  base. 

Note. — A  braized  neck  of  veal  may  also  be  garnished 
with  cauliflowers  or  brocoli,  or  with  asparagus,  peas, 
with  Jardiniere  or  Mac^doine,  and  sauced  round  with 
B^ohamel ;  it  may  be  garnished  with  plain  boiled  rice, 
and  some  ourry  sauce  poured  over  it. 

No.  400.— NECK  OF  VEAL  LARDED. 

Trim  a  neck  of  veal  after  the  manner  indicated  in  the 
forgoing  articles;  then  with  a  sharp  knife  pare  ofl 
the-  skin  and  sinew  which  cover  the  fillet  part  of  the 
neck,  leaving  the  ribs  well  and  straightly  covered  with 
their  fat ;  the  bared  fillet  must  then  be  closely  larded, 
and  braized  according  to  the  precepts  for  the  treatment 
of  a  fricandeau ;  when  done,  remove  the  neck  of  veal 
from  the  braizing-pan  on  a  baking-dish  or  sautapan, 
and  after  having  first  strained  its  liquor  or  stock,  freed 
it  from  grease,  and  boiled  it  down  to  half -glaze,  pour  it 
over  the  veal,  and  use  it  to  baste  it  frequently  in  the 
oven,  in  order  to  give  the  larding  a  bright  golden 
aspect,  and  also  to  cause  it  to  absorb  the  whole  of  the 
stock,  which  will  tend  to  give  it  savour  and  mellow- 
ness: it  must  now  be  dished  up,  and  garnished  with 
any  of  the  dressed  vegetables  or  ragouts  recommended 
in  the  preceding  case. 

No.  401.-NOIX  OR  OUSfflON  OP  VEAL. 

The  noix  or  cushion  of  veal  is  that  part  of  the  leg  to 
which  the  udder  adheres.  In  order  to  separate  it  from 
tbe  round  or  fillet,  the  leg  should  be  placed  on  tlie  table 
with  the  knuckle  from  you,  then  with  the  left  hand 
take  hold  of  the  upper  part  of  the  fillet  of  veal,  while 
with  the  right  hand  insert  the  point  of  a  knifo  into  the 
separation  which  divides  the  noix  or  cushion  fi  om  the 
under  pai-t  of  the  fillet ;  cut  the  noix  away,  following 
the  separation  right  through  round  to  the  knuckle, 
terminating  at  the  left  under  the  udder,  whix)h  must  be 


142  THE   CXKiKB  GUfDX.   AHB 

allowed  to  remain  in  its  close  adherence  to  the  cosh  ion. 
Pare  ofT  the  sinewy  |)art8  from  that  of  the  ciuJiiaii 
which  is  covered  with  skin,  leaving  the  udder  whole; 
and  when  the  tloshy  part  is  laid  hare,  in  a  semicircnlar 
form,  lard  this  part  neatly  and  closely  with  fat  haeon  in 
the  usual  way ;  and  hi'aize  the  cushion  in  exactly  the 
same  manner  as  described  for  fricandeau.  AVhen  donev 
dish  it  up  with  any  of  the  garnishes  prescribed  in  the 
preceding  caHCs. 

Na  402.— CUSmOX  OF  VEAL  A  LA  ST.  QEOBOEL 

Prepare  a  noix  or  cushion  of  veal  as  directed  in  the 
foref:;oing  number,  and  when  done,  and  brightly  glased 
in  the  oven,  lot  it  be  dished  up,  and  garnished  with 
alternate  groups  of  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  small  que- 
nelles made  from  the  trimmings  of  the  veal ;  poor  some 
Financiere  sauce  over  and  round,  and  Kcrve  hot. 

No.  4()3.-CUSraON  OF  VEAL  A  LA  ST.  CLOUD. 

Trim  a  cushion  of  veal,  and  instead  of  larding  it,  aa 
recommended  in  the  foregoing  numbers,  make  inden- 
tures with  a  w(XHlcn  skewer  over  the  trimmed  surface 
of  tho  cushion,  and  into  these  holes  insert  holmail- 
likcshnped  ])icces  of  black  truffle,  or  red  tongue,— «r  of 
l)«»tli  alternated ;  cover  the  cushion  with  very  thin 
layers  of  fat  bacon,  and  having  placed  it  in  a  Mean- 
dcau-p;in  upon  a  In-d  of  sliced  carrot,  onions,  celery, 
and  garnihhed  lx)iicinct  or  faggot  of  herbs,  moisten  with 
white  stock  or  water,  and  braize  it  gently  for  about 
three  hours;  when  done,  remove  the  thin  layers  of 
fat  bacon,  dish  it  up.  garnish  with  decorated  quenelles, 
and  while  c(x:ks'  combs ;  pour  some  Allemande  sauce 
ovei*  and  njiind  the  Ijase,  and  serve. 

Xo.  401.     UOAST  LOIN  OF  VEAL. 

Order  a  best  end  loin  of  veal,  weighing  about  eight 
pounds,  with  a  fair  proportion  of  the  skirt  on ;  trim  it 
square,  and  [)lacing  some  veal-stufflng  in  an  incifioo 
inade   for  that  purpose  in  the  flap  or  skirt,   wrap  it 


"  0***'^>  ^*  «%^»-*W  •«««/>t.N/M  K^MVVWA  WMMWW  W«WM«%/«* 

a  few  spoonfals  of  mushroom  catsup  over  it,  and 
I  separately — either  a  ham,  or  tongue,  Bath  chap, 
me  Dacon  garnished  with  some  sort  of  vegetable. 

No.  405.— LOIN  OP  VEAL  BRAIZED. 

im,  stuff,  and  truss  a  loin'  of  veal  as  described  in  the 
loing  case ;  place  it  on  a  bed  of  sliced  vegetables  in 
uzing-pan,  cover  it  with  a  fitting  piece  of  thick 
9  paper — previously  rubbed  over  with  butter ; 
ben  with  sufi&cient  stock  or  water  to  just  reach  the 

of  the  surface  of  the  veal,  and  set  it  to  braize  in 
oven,  or  else  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  with 
embers  on  the  lid  of  the  pan,  taking  duo  care  to 
I  it  frequently  with  its  own  liquor  during  the  time 

being  braized,  in  order  that  the  meat,  by  con- 
maly  absorbing  the  stock  impregnated  with  the 
ur  of  the  vegetables  and  herbs,  may  thus  become 
)f  savour  and  mellow.     When  the  loin  of  veal  has 

stewed  or  braized  for  about  three  hours,  let  it  be 
led  and  placed  on  a  baking-dish,  and  after  strain- 
ind  boiling  down  its  own  liquor  to  the  consistency 
alf-glaze,  add  this  to  it,  and  set  it  in  the  oven, — 
innously  basting  it  with  its  glaze  until  it  presents 
i^ht,  light  glossy  aspect :  the  loin  of  veal  must  then 


144  THIS  cook's  ouidk,  ahb 

No.  406.— LOm  OF  VEAL  A  TJL  CREME. 

Prepare  and  roast  a  loin  of  veal  as  directed  in  Ka 
404 ;  and,  about  twenty  minutes  before  it  is  done,  pot  a 
clean  dish  under  it,  and  baste  it  all  over  continnoaaljr 
with  a  pint  of  cream :  this,  as  the  veal  continnes  to 
turn  round  before  the  fire,  will  cause  it  to  assume  a 
bright,  light-brownish  crust  of  a  very  delicate  acnd 
delicious  aspect ;  and  which,  while  removing  the  veal 
from  its  spit  on  to  its  dish,  must  be  carefully  handled  so 
as  not  to  be  knocked  off ;  let  the  brown  deposit  which 
has  &llen  from  the  veal  during  the  time  it  has  been 
basted  with  cream  be  detached  from  the  dish  which  has 
duly  received  it,  with  some  white  mushroom  juice,  or 
water ;  add  this  to  some  white  sauce  and  a  little  cream, 
and  pour  it  round  the  veal. 

Note, — It  is  hardly  necessary  to  say  that  all  veal  joints 
may  be  advantageously  dressed  in  this  fashion. 

No.  407.— BOAST  BBEAST  Of  VEAL. 

Take  a  breast,  or  part  of  a  breast  of  veal,  and  remove 
the  tendons  without  cutting  through  the  veal ;  and,  in 
their  room,  place  a  rolled  pudding  composed  of  veal 
stuffing,  which  must  be  secured  by  being  sewn  np  with 
string,  or  merely  fastened  in  with  skewers.  Spit  the 
breast  of  veal,  and  roast  it,  if  weighing  eight  pounds, 
about  an  hour  and  three-quarters  ;  and  when  done,  dish 
it  up,  pour  over  it  some  butter  sauce  mixed  with  either 
a  little  catsup  or  browning,  and  serve. 

No.  408.— BOLLED  BBEAST  OF  VEAL. 

Square  the  breast  of  veal  by  cutting  off  the  rougli. 
ends  in  a  straight  line,  and  remove  all  the  bones  and 
tendons.  Next,  place  a  long  rolled  pudding  of  vecQ 
stuffing  in  the  centre  of  the  veal ;  roll  it  up  in  the  forKu 
of  a  bol>ter ;  secure  its  shape  by  cording  it  neatly  rowwi 
with  stiing,  and  set  it  to  braize  in  the  usual  way  in  * 
braizing-pan ;   this  will  take  about  three  hours;  an^ 


houbi&lvib'b  uid  sutlxb'b  AsaiBTANT.  lis 

wbua  dooe,  lake  it  up,  and  Iiaving  finished  glazing  it, 
u  directed  in  the  foreguing  ctutes,  plaoe  it  on  its  diah, 
ganuBh  it  with  any  of  the  ragouU  mentioned  aa  fit 
Mxxunpaniments  fur  nooks  or  loins  of  Teal,  and  send  to 
table. 

No.  409.— BEEA8T  OF  VEAL  A  LA  PKIKTAN1V:EE. 

Let  the  breast  of  veal  be  prepared  and  braized  as 
described  in  the  foregoing  number ;  and  when  done 
and  dished  np,  gantish  it  ronnd  with  alternate  groups  of 
glased  j'oang  carrobi,  turnips,  qdious  ,  young  potatooti, 
and  green  peae ;  sauce  it  loimd  with  its  own  glaze,  and 
serve. 

No.  41(1.— BREAST  OF  VEAL  A  LA  CHIPOLATA. 
Drefls  and  dish  up  a  breast  of  voal  as  in  the  preceding 
number;  glaze  and  gamicih  it  with  a  ragout  k  la  Cbipo- 
lata.  No.  123,  and  serve. 

Nate. — As  Chipolata  ragout  is  rather  complicated  and 
■omewhat  exponsiTe,  it  is  as  well  to  remark  that  what 
iato  be  used,  and  what  to  be  omitted,  becomes  purely 
a  matter  of  convenieuce. 

Va.  ill.- BOILBD  LEG  OF  MCTi'TON. 


I'iHe  a  trimmed  leg  of  mutt«n  in  a  pot  of  suffictent 
*!*oty  to  bold  about  sii  gallons ;  add  enough  cold 
**tw  to  let  it  swim,  and  set  it  to  boU ;  after  skimming 


146  THB  OOQK^S  CHIID^   AMD 

it  well,  adil  a  handfdl  of  salt,  a  few  carrots.  tnmipBy  and 
a  couple  of  parsnips ;  and  wlien  the  leg  of  muttem  hm 
boiled  about  two  hours  and  a  half,  it  wiU  be  dome.  It 
should  then  be  dished  up  with  a  cut  paper  nsffle  on  tkii 
tshank-bone,  garnished  with  mashed  turnips  mixed  with 
a  spoonful  of  flour,  a  pat  of  butter,  a  gill  of  cream, 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  mould  the  mashed  turnips  in 
the  shape  of  lai^  eggs  with  two  tablespoons — and 
place  them  in  a  circular  row  round  the  dish,  introducing 
in  between  each  spoonful  of  turnip  a  well-turned  piece 
of  boiled  carrot:  pour  some  gravy  under,  and  serre 
caper  sauce,  separately. 

ya  412.— BRAIZED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Trim  a  leg  of  mutton,  interlard  it  with  strippett  of 
ham,  or  bacon,  cut  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square,  and 
about  six  inches  long — seasoned  with  aromatic  herbs. 
pepper  and  salt ;  pare  off  any  ends  of  bacon  which  mav 
happen  to  protrude,  and  place  the  leg  of  mutton  in  a 
braizing-pan     with    carrots,    turnips,    celery,   onioiw» 
garnished   faggot  of  parsley,  cloves,  mace,  said  a  few 
peppercorns  :    moisten  with  sufficient  stock  t-r  water  to 
cover  the  mutton,  and  set   it  to  simmer  ver^*  gentlj 
ov4r  a  slow  fire,  or  in  the  uven  for  about  three  boon, 
taking  care  to  baste  it  frequently  with  its  own  liquor. 
When  done,  drained,  and  placed  in  a  baking-di^lu  ^ 
the  stock  bailed  down,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  be  glaz^ 
— ^by  basting  it  often  vdth   its  own   essence ;  and  stf 
soon  as  it  presents  a  bright,  glossy  aspect,  didi  it  np 
with  glazed  carrots  and  <.>nions,  or  a  richly-^amisH*M 
Jardiniere :  sauce  over  iii~ith  the  remainder  of  its  suie 
added  to  some  brown  sauce,  and  serve. 

Xa  413.— LEG  OF  MXTTTOX  A  LA  XAPOI.ITAIXE. 

Braize  a  leg  of  mutton  as  in  the  foregoing  nnmber  « 
and,  instead  of  garnishing  it  with   vegetables, 
either  raviolis  No.  167,  or  weU-dreswd  macaioai 


housxkebpsb's  akd  butucb'b  assistant.  147 

lat  purpose ;  pour  over  the  leg  of  mutton  and  round 
le  \kse  of  the  macaroni  some  Neapolitan  sauce,  No.  59, 
dd  serve  soraped  horseradish,  separately. 


1^0.  414.— LEG  OF  MUTTON  A  LA  PROVENCALE. 

Remove  the  thighbone  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  com- 

lencing  at  the  thick  end.  leaving  the  leg-end  bono  in 

ss  place;   fill  the  cavity  thus  left  with  a  preparation 

onsisting  of — chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  shalot.  ham, 

clove  of  garlic,  nutmeg,  pepper,  grated  lemon -peel, 

nd  salt ;   stew  these  with  a  pat  of  butter  for  a  few 

oinutes  over  the  fire,  and  then  pound  them  with  two 

lunces  of  bread-crumb,   four  ounces  of  chopped  lean 

aw  meat;   add   four  raw  yolks   of    eggs — pound   all 

horoughly :    fasten  the  stuffing  in  by  sewing  up  the 

opening  of  the  leg,  and  then  place  it  in  a  braizing- pan 

writh  a  gill  of  oil,  two  bay-leaves,  thyme,  marjoram,  and 

two  cloves  of  garlic ;  fry  the  mutton  on  all  sides  over 

the  fire  until  it  assumes  a  uniform  brown  colour ;   then 

moisten   with   stock   or   water  sufficient   to   cover  the 

mutton,  and   set  it  to  braize  gently  for  three  hours, 

Wsting    it  often  with  its  own    liquor.      When    done, 

remove  the  leg  of  mutton  on  to  a  baking-dish ;  strain, 

remove  all  grease  and  boil  down  its  stock,  pour  it  to  the 

mutton,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  finish  glazing  by  fre- 

<iueutly  basting  it  with  the  glaze;    and  when  this  is 

accomplished,  dish  up  the  leg  of  mutton,  pour  some 

PToven^ale  ^auce.  No.  69,  mixed  with  the  remainder  of 

tie  glaze  over  the  mutton;  gamibh  with  mushrooms  an 

patin,  and  serve. 


No.  415.— LEG  OF  MUTTON  A  LA  BRRTONNE. 

Braize  and  dish  up  a  leg  of  mutton,  as  directed  in  the 
'oyegoing  case,  and  garnish  with  haricot  beans  dressed 
"^  Br^tonne  sauce,  No.  66 ;  pour  the  remainder  of  the 
8«ae  orer  the  mutton,  and  serve. 

L  2 


148  THX  OOOK'8   aOlDCy   MMtM 

No.  416.-LE6  OF  HUTTOK  A  LA  80UBI8E. 

I'rc'pare  a  leg  of  mutton  as  shown  in  No.  412,  poor 
some  Soubiue  sance,  No.  58,  on  the  centre  of  the  dish, 
place  the  leg  of  mutton  thereon,  garnish  it  round  with 
potato  croquets,  pour  the  remainder  of  the  glaze  on  the 
inntton,  and  serve. 

No.  417.— BOILED  NECK  OF  MUTTON. 

»Saw  off  the  scrag-end  and  chine-bone  of  a  neck  of  mv^ 
t'jn,  and  shorten  the  ribs  to  about  four  inches  in  lesigth; 
next,  pare  off  the  excess  of  fat  to  about  half  an  indi  in 
thickness,  and  boil  the  neck  in  plenty  of  water  and  a 
littlo  Halt,  with  three  carrots  and  as  many  tomips;  and 
when  done,  dish  it  up,  surrounded  with  spoonfols  of 
mashed  turnips,  and  the  boiled  carrots  cut  in  neat 
shapeH  and  placed  between  the  mashed  turnips;  poor 
Homo  gravy  over  the  mutton,  and  serve  caper  sauce, 
neparately. 

No.  418. -NECK  OF  MUTTON  A  LIBLANDAISE. 

Trim  a  neck  of  mutton  as  in  the  preceding  nnmh» 
and  put  it  to  braize  in  a  stewpan  with  carrot,  oniov 
celery,  and  a  gamiHhed  bouquet  of  parsley;  moists 
with  stock  or  water,  and  set  this  to  simmer  verj*  slow! 
over  a  moderate  fire  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half;  ai 
while  the  mutton  is  braizing,  put  a  dozen  peeled  po' 
toes  and  six  onions  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  jiat  of  but 
and  sc^me  })opper  and  salt;   moisten  with  a  quart 
stock  or  water,  and  set  these  to  boil  sharply  over 
fire,  laking  care  that  the  potatoes  are  kept  as  whol 
possible.     When  the  neck  of  mutton  is  done  quite 
dor,  dish  it  up;  place  the  potatoes  and  onions  n* 
round  it;  sauce  it  over  with  the  reduced  stock  in  a 
mutton,  and  servo. 

No.  419.— NECK  OF  MUTTON  ROEBUCK  FASHI 

Trim  a  nec^  of  mutt^/U  as  for  braizing,  and  afte 
with  a  sharp  knife  lay  the  fillet  or  fleshy  part 


EOU8EKXKFBB*8  AND  VXJVLKB,*B  ASBISTANT.  149 

bore  by  removing  it«  covering  of  fat  and  sinew;  the 
bare  pai*t  must  then  be  closely  larded  with  bacon,  and 
piokled  in  marinade  for  at  least  two  days  (see  Ko.  299). 
When  sufficiently  saturated  with  the  marinade,  it  must 
be  braized  as  directed  for  legs  of  mutton;  and  when 
done,  glazed  and  dished  up,  it  is  to  be  garnished  with 
potatoes  turned  in  the  form  of  large  olives  and  fried 
in  butter,  of  a  light  colour  ;  pour  some  ch^vreuil  sauce, 
No.  29,  over  the  neck  of  mutton,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  420.--NECK  OF  MOTTON  A  LA  SOUBISE. 

Braize  a  larded  neck  of  mutton  (without  having 
pickled  it)  as  in  the  preceding  case,  and  when  done, 
dish  it  up  on  some  thick  Soubise  sauce,  No.  58 ;  garnish 
it  round  with  either  fried  potatoes,  or  potato  croquets ; 
pour  its  own  glaze  over  the  neck  of  mutton,  and  serve. 

No.  421.— NECK  OF  MUTTON  A  L'ALLEMANDE. 

Prepare  and  braize  a  neck  of  mutton  as  described  in 
No.  419,  and  when  done  and  glazed,  dish  it  up ;  garnish 
it  round  with  German  quenelles.  No.  356,  and  stewed 
pnmes;  pour  some  cblvreuil  sauce.  No.  29,  over  the 
mutton,  and  serve. 

N).  422. -NECK  OF  MUTTON  WITH  PUKEE  OF  SORKEL. 

Trim  a  neck  of  mutton  and  lard  it,  or  not— for  this  pur- 
pose ;  if  the  neck  of  mutton  is  intended  to  be  dressed 
plain,  let  it  be  neatly  trimmed  as  for  boiling,  braized 
as  recommended  in  No.  418,  and  when  dished  up,  on  a 
pur^e  of  sorrel.  No.  119  a.,  previously  placed  in  the 
centre  of  the  dish,  garnish  it  roimd  with  a  border  of 
grazed  spring-carrots;  pour  its  reduced  stock  over  the 
^eck  of  mutton,  and  serve. 

■Voie.-- Braized  necks  of  mutton,  whether  larded  or 
plain,  may  also  be  served,  either  with  any  kind  of 
pnr^  of  vegetables,  or,  any  vegetable  garnish,  such  as 
giawid  onions,  turnips,  Jardiniere,  &c.,  dressed  tomatas^ 


150  THB  000K*8  GUIDB,   AND 

No.  423.— SHEEP'S  HEADS  GALLIKAUFBIED. 

Procure  the  head  and  pluck  of  a  fresh-killed  &heep ; 
split  the  head  into  halves,   remove  the  brains;  steep 
the  whole  in  water,  and  wasli  them  thoroughly.     Next, 
place  the  head,  lights,  heart,  and  liver  in  a  stewpan 
with  carrot,  onion,  celery,  garnished  faggot  of  parsley. 
six  cloves,  mace,  a  few  Jamaica  peppercorns,  and  a  small 
handful  of  salt ;  moisten  with  sufScient  common  broth  or 
water  to  make  the  contents  of  the  stewpan  swim,  and 
then  set  the  whole  to  braize  slowly  over  the  fire  for 
about  an  hour  and  a  half.     AVhen  the  head,  &c.,  are 
done,  take  them  up  carefully  on  a  di>h.  strain  the  broth, 
and  after  having  removed  all  grease,  boil  down  one-half 
to  thin  glaze,  and  with  the  remainder  make  some  brown 
sauce.     The  halves  of  the  head  should  be  trimmed. 
seasoned  with  chopped  parsley  and  shalot,  pepper  and 
halt,    egged  over  and  bread -crumbed,  and   then,  after 
having  sprinkled  some  clarified  butter  over  the  snifai^e 
of  the  cheek  only,  should  be  again  bread-crumbed  and 
placed  on  a  buttered  sautapan  for  the  purpose  of  being 
baked  of  a  golden -brown  colour.     The  liver,  lights. 
and   heart    must  be  chopped  up  into  fine  minoe,  and 
when  the  sauce  has  been  boiled  down  to  its  proper  con- 
sistency, add  the  mince,  some  chopped  parsley,  mush- 
rooms,  and  shalots,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  Crosse  and  Blackweil  s  Oude  sauce : 
stir  well  together  over  the  fire  until  quite  hot,  and  iheu 
pile  up  the  mince  in  the  centre  of  the  di>h;  place  the 
pieces  of  head  upon  this,  garnish  the  babe  with  thin 
strippets  of  frizzled  bacon,  and  serve. 

Note, — The  brains — after  being  cleaned — bhould  be 
boiled  in  vinegar  and  water,  with  a  little  salt,  for  a  fe'^r 
minutes,  cut  in  slices,  and  placed  between  the  halve* 
of  the  head. 

No.  424.— BOAST  HAUXCH  OF  MTTTOX. 

Procure,  if  possible,  a  haunch  of  four-year-old  Sout^ 
do^-n  or  Scotch  mutton.     Weather  permitting,  it  ahool^ 


nOUSEKEKPIu'S   AND   BUTLBB«   AtfSIBTANT. 


101 


have  huBg  in  a  oool  lardor  for  about  ten  days :  let  it 
l>c  ti'immed  by  removing  the  epidermis  or  transparent 
skin  which  covers  the  fat;  saw  off  the  shank-bone. 


HAUKcu  or  iicrroK. 


cover  it  with  two  large  hhuets  of  well-greased  paper, 

place  it  in  a  cradle-spit,  and  roast  it  before  a  good  nre  for 

about  two  hours  and  a  quarter  :  the  joint  must  be  kept 

at  a  distance  of  about  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire ;  it 

must  be  basted  with  dripping  every  five  minutes ;  and 

about  ten  minutes  before  being  taken  up,  first  remove 

the  paper  which  covers  it,  dredge  it  all  over  with  flour, 

shake  a  little  salt  over  the  surface,  and  with  a  large 

spoon  pierced  with  holes,  drop  some  dissolved  butter 

yver  it,  in  order  to  give  it  that  deliciously  brown  frothy 

wpect  so  well   appreciated  by   all   lovers  of  a   woll- 

««teted  English  joint. 

Note. — Irish,  Welsh,  and  Devonshire  mutton  also 
possess  great  claims  to  the  notice  of  epicures  ;  and  when 
obtained  in  perfection,  are  worthy  of  a  wide-spread  re- 
putation. 

No.  4^5.— ROAST  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON. 

^  In  the  selection  of  a  saddle  or,  indeed,  of  any  other 
joint  of  mutton,  follow  the  instructions  given  in  the  pre- 
ceding article ;  and,  as  regards  the  roasting,  take  the 
*^nie  precautions,  bearing  in  mind,  tbat  about  an  hour 
*^^  a  half  will  suffice  to  roast  a  saddle  weighing  about 
ten  pounds. 
«ote.— Great  diversity  of  opinion  exists  as  to  which  i^ 


Till  OOOK'I  SDIDI,  AMD 


positively  the  beat  metliod  of  i»n-iiig  a  toMUle  of  matb 
and  BO  determiufttely  convini;ed  an  botb  udvocateH 
thin  knotty  qiieation,  that  witli  all  my  experience 


these  iiiatt«ra,  I  am  lodi  to  prononnce  a  yerdiot ; — 
from  any  fear  of  finding  myself  in  a  minority  on  eit 
side,  for  I  belieTe  that  in  this  case,  at  least,  nnmben 
eqnaUy  balanced;  bat  for  this  reason — that  I  « 
know  that  nobody  is  ever  convinced  by  oootjOTenj 
Notwithstanding  all  that  precedes,  I  must  jnat  vent 
most  humbly  to  explain  m^  I  advocate  the  traaava 
— instead  of  the  long—  or  parallel  cut.  Everybody  B 
easily  acquaint  himself  with  the  &ct  that  the  filune 
or  fibres  of  the  grain  of  the  meat  mn  parallel  « 
the  spine-bone  of  a  saddle  of  mntton ;  and,  consequent 
that  with  the  elongated  slice  so  cat, — when  divided 
the  plate  into  morsels  for  mastication, — the  toeth  m' 
necessarily  meet  with  a  greater  amount  of  resistai 
when  they  have  to  cat  throogh  a  mass  of  close  fibi 
which  in  this  form  are  presented  for  their  incisi' 
than  wonld  be  the  case  if  each  side  of  the  saildle  wi 
to  be  cnt  out  in  slanting  slices — cutlet- wise,  by  maki 
an  incision  along  the  spine-bone,  and  then  cutting  1 
slices  from  that  line — crosswise,  through  the  sid 
By  this  means  you  obtain  a  slice  of  mutton  with  its  f 
accompaniment  of  delicate  skirt  fat ;  and  from  the  vf 
fact  that  ihe  fibres  are  being  severed  croii4wii>e.  the  to 
have  only  to  press  lightly  in  order  to  devide  the  mon 
and  are  consequently  relieved  from  much  labour.  WI 
is  infinitely  of  more  couscquenne,  the  meat  by  t 
simple  and  much  more  economical  mode  of  carving,  I 


HOUSEEXEPSB'S  AMD   BUTLBB*B  ASBIBTANT.  158 

a  better  chance  of  eating  tender ;  and  besides  that,  every 
guest  18  served  with  fairness. 


No.  426.-BOILED  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 

Salt  a  shoidder  of  mutton,  and  turn  it  over  in  its 
brine  every  morning  for  about  six  days ;  at  the  expira- 
tion of  this  time,  it  will  be  fit  to  dress :  it  must  be  put 
on  to  boil  in  a  pot  with  cold  water,  a  can-ot,  onion,  celery, 
and  a  garnished  bouquet  of  parsley,  and  boiled  very 
gently  for  about  an  hour  and  three-quarters,  and  when 
done,  dished  up  with  a  border  of  boiled  carrots  and 
parsnips,  and  smothered  with  onion  sauce,  No.  65. 

No.  427.— STUFFED  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 

Saw  oflF  the  stump  shank  from  a  shoulder  of  mutton  ; 
remove  the  blade-bone  with  care — so  as  not  to  disturb 
the  outer  shape  of  the  shoulder  by  making  a  hole 
through  it.  Fill  the  cavity  occasioned  by  the  removal 
of  the  blade-bone  with  veal  stuffing  No.  294 ;  sew  up  the 
opening  by  gathering  up  the  sides  of  the  meat  with 
trassing-needle  and  string,  drawing  them  up — something 
jike  a  purse — and  fastening  the  ends  so  as  to  secure  it 
ill  a  plump  shape  or  form.  Kext,  let  the  shoulder  of 
mutton  be  either  nicely  roasted  or  braized ;  and  when 
^lished  up,  pour  over  it  some  piquante  sauce,  No.  22,  and 
serve  hot. 

^ote. — Shoulders  of  mutton  prepared  after  this  fa&hion 
^J  also  be  served  as  directed  in  the  variety  of  forms 
for  diessing  legs  of  mutton. 

No.  428.— LOINS  OF  MUTTON. 

Loins  of  mutton  subjected  to  the  same  treatment  of 
•dressing  as  those  indicated  for  necks  of  mutton  may  be 
served  according  to  similar  fashions,  and  also  garnished 
^nth  the  same  sauces  and  accompaniments  as  are  recoia- 
wended  in  all  those  cases. 


154  THE  cook's  omDE,  Ain> 

N'j.  429.— SADDLE  OF  ^lUTTOX  A  LA  POLONAISE. 

This  is  generally  prepared  from  the  remains  of  a 
saddle  of  mutton,  left  from  the  joint  which  has  heen 
dressed  for  a  previous  day's  dinner,  and  l>ecome8  there- 
fore a  most  economical  dish,  a  circumstance  which  by  no 
means  detracts  from  its  recommendation  to  the  notice  d 
every  epicure.  Cut  all  the  meat  from  the  saddle  of  mut- 
ton, and  mince  it  fine;  put  thi.s  into  a  stewpan  witt 
enough  brown  sauce  to  moisten  it ;  season  with  chopped 
parsley  and  shalot,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  spoon 
ful  of  Oude  sauce ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  about  ffm  minutei 
imtil  quite  hot ;  and  while  this  is  going  on,  prepare  thi 
pulp  of  a  dozen  baked  potatoes  mixed  with  two  ouncei 
of  butter,  four  yolks  of  e^s,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt 
stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it  ceases  to  adhere  to  the  stew 
pan,  and  thus  becomes  a  rather  firm  kind  of  paste ;  rol 
it  with  flour  on  the  table,  and  with  it  form  an  oraa 
mental  sort  of  wall  on  the  dish  round  the  saddle-of-mnttoi 
bone — so  as  to  give  it  the  appearance  of  its  origina 
shape  ;  place  the  mince  in  the  centre  ;  strew  some  rasp 
ings,  or  fried  bread-crumbs  all  over  the  top  ;  egpj  over  the 
potato  wall,  and  put  it  in  a  sharp  oven  to  bake  it  of  a 
light-brown  colour ;  when  done,  place  six  or  eight  deli- 
cately-poached eggs  on  the  surface ;  pour  some  gravy  or 
poivrade  sauce  round  the  base,  and  serve. 

Note. — Legs,  loins,  or  shoulders  of  mutton  may  be 
turned  to  the  same  account,  giving  each  its  origiiwl 
shape  by  using  the  potato-paste  for  that  purpose. 

No.  430.— ROAST  FORE-QUARTER  OF  LAMB. 

Saw  off  the  shank-bone,  and  also  the  chine-bone— 
along  the  fillet  part  of  the  neck ;  and  with  a  saw  par- 
tially sever  the  rib-bones,  midway  between  the  edge  ol 
the  breast  and  the  spine-bone.  Cover  the  fore-quartci 
iA'  lamb  with  buttered  paper,  and  secure  it  in  an  even 
position  on  the  spit ;  roast  it  before  a  brisk  fire  for  abont 
an  hour  and  a  half,  and  about  ten  minutes  before  taking 


housekxxpbk's  avd  bvtlicb's  amistant.         155 

it  up,  dredge  it  witli  flom  aud  a  little  salt,  and  baste  it 
over  with  a  little  dissolved  butter,  to  froth  and  brown  it 
of  an  appetising  colour.  It  must  then  be  dished  up 
with  a  cut-paper  niffle  on  the  shank-bone,  gravy  must  be 
poured  under  it,  and  mint  sauce  served  separately. 

Not€, — Chop  a  double  handful  of  clean  mint-leaves, 
and  mix  them  in  a  sauce-boat,  with  half  a  gill  of  vinegar 
and  an  ounce  of  moist  sugar. 

No.  431.-BIBS  OR  TARGET  OP  LAMB. 

Hibs,  or  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  target  of  lamb, 
consists  of  the  breast  and  neck  joints  left  adhering 
together  in  tbeir  natural  position.  The  chine -bone 
should  be  sawed  off,  and  the  flat  bones  removed  from 
the  meaty  part  of  the  neck ;  the  ribs  are  to  be  partially 
sawed  through,  so  that  when  the  lamb  is  cooked,  it 
hecomes  an  easy  matter  to  separate  the  breast  from  the 
neck  or  superior  rib-bones.  Cover  the  ribs  of  lamb 
with  buttered  paper ;  run  two  iron  skewers  through  it 
crosswise,  and  having  secured  it  in  an  even  position  on 
the  spit,  roast  it  before  a  brisk  fire  for  about  an  hour, 
according  to  the  instructions  contained  in  the  foregoing 
number. 

Note. — When  roast  lamb  is  intended  to  be  eaten  cold, 
the  addition  of  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  popper  and 
«alt  sprinkled  over  it  after  it  is  removed  from  the  fire, 
gives  it  a  more  inviting  aspect. 

No.  432.— BOILED  LEG  OF  LAMB. 

Select  a  leg  of  a  fresh-killed  lamb,  well  furnished  wiih 
white  fat,  boil  it  in  water  with  a  tablespoon fiil  of  salt, 
carrot,  celery,  onion  and  turnip  ;  it  will  be  done  in  about 
an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  should  be  dished  up  sur- 
rounded either  with  dressed  spinach,  and  the  addition 
of  spring  carrots  and  turnips,  or  else  with  the  latter 
only,  or  with  cauliflowers;  a  little  white  sauce,  or 
Qttt^e-d'hdtel  sauce,  should  be  poured  over  the  lamb, 
and  a  cut-paper  ruffle  placed  on  the  shank-bone. 


156  THIS  CMXXK'h  aVWJL,   AMD 

Note. —  [^egs  of  lamb  may  also  be  dreBoeA  in  ewerf 
▼ariety  of  form  recctmmendod  for  tbe  treatment  of  kgi 
of  mutton. 

No.  433.--SHOULDEB  OF  LAMB  GRILLED. 

When  it  happens  that  j'ou  have  a  cold  bhoulder, or 
part  of  a  shoulder  of  lamb,  left  from  a  previous  day's 
dinner,  take  a  knife  and  score  it  twice  crosswise,  by  cat- 
ting incisions  down  to  the  bone ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  grill  it  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  it  frequently  for 
about  twenty  minutes,  and  when  done,  dish  it  up  widi 
piquante  «auce. 

No.  4i54.— LAMB'S  HEAD. 
See  Sheep's  Head,  No.  423. 

No.  435.-8HOULDEB  OF  LAMB  A  LA  MONTMOBENCY. 

Saw  off  the  nob,  or  knuckle-bone,  from  the  shank  of 
a  shoulder  of  lamb ;  remove  the  blade-bones  without  cat- 
ting through  the  meat  or  skin  which  covers  it ;  fill  the 
cavity  thus  occasioned  with  well-seasoned  forcemeat: 
gather  up  the  edges  of  the  shoulder  by  means  ofa 
rrussing-needle  and  small  twine,  by  drawing  them  np 
in  purse -like  fashion,  so  as  to  securely  hold  the  force- 
meat within  the  cavity  of  the  shoulder.  Next,  with  the 
point  of  a  small  knife  make  a  circular  incision  all  ronnd 
the  inner  part  of  tbephimp  cushion,  to  the  depth  of  the 
eighth  of  an  inch,  and  then  dexterously  shave  off  the 
superficial  skin  which  covers  the  inner  part  of  the  circle 
thus  traced  out ;  this  bared  pai-t  of  the  shoulder  is  to  he 
closely  and.  neatly  larded  in  the  usual  way,  and  braised 
as  directed  for  necks  of  mutton  larded ;  it  is  also  to  be 
finished  in  the  same  manner,  and  when  dished  opt 
should  be  garnished  with  a  Toulouse  ragout,  No.  105. 

Note, — Shoulders  of  lamb,  either  larded  or  not,  pre- 
pared  as  above,  may  also  be  garnished  ais  indicated  fot 
Idij:^  and  necks  of  mutton. 


HOUSIKJEXPBB'S   and   BliTTilR^e  ASSISTANT.  157 

No.  i3&^SADDLE  OF  LAMB  BRAIZED. 

r  this  purpose  it  is  necessary  to  bone,  that  is  to 

0  remove  all  the  bones  ft-om  the  saddle  of  lamb ; 
vhen  this  haa  been  effected  without  injury  to  the 
'  part  of  the  skin  of  the  saddle,  let  it  be  filled  in 
forcemeat,  or  Godiveau,  No.  190:  this  is  to  be 
sly  fastened  in,  by  neatly  and  carefully  rolling  up 
irced  saddle  of  lamb  in  a  napkin  spread  with  butter, 
hen  again,  by  tightly  securing  the  ends  with  tied 
;.  The  saddle  thus  far  prepared,  must  be  braized 
tiite  stock,  with  the  usual  complement  of  stock 
ables,  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half;  and  when 
and  taken  out  of  the  braize,  must  be  left  in  the 
n,  and  pressed  between  two  dishes  with  a  fourteen- 

1  weight  on  the  top  dish  :  the  saddle  must  be 
ed  to  remain  in  the  cold  until  set  quite  firm;  it 
hen  be  removed  from  the  napkin,  slightly  trimmed, 

hot  in  a  little  of  the  stock  without  boiling  (as 
might  deform  it),  placed  on  its  dish,  garnished 
[  with  four  lamb's-breads  larded,  and  four  decomtod 
>lle8,  placed  alternately,  some  tniftles,  cock's 
J,  and  button  mushrooms ;  glaze  the  saddle,  pour 
Allomande  sauce  round  the  base,  and  serve. 
«, — Saddles  of  lamb  prepared  in  this  fashion  may 
►e  g.imishod  with  any  kind  of  dressed  vegetables. 

^o,  437.— SADPLE  OF  LAMB  A  LA  VILLEROI. 

rpare  a  saddle  of  lamb  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
and  when  pressed,  cold,  and  trimmed,  place  it  on 
ered  baking-sheet,  mask  it  over  with  a  coating  of 
Vllemando  sauce,  and,  as  soon  as  this  is  sot  per- 
cold  and  firm,  egg  it  over  with  a  brnsh  dipped  in 
1  egg;  cmmb  over  the  surface  with  some  fried 
-crumbs  of  a  very  light  colour,  mixed  with  u 
fnl  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  :  and  about  half  an 
>eforo  dinner-time,  set  the  saddle  in  a  rather  slow 
:o  get  warm,  taking  care  to  pT*evont  it  from  gaininjy 


158  THX  OOOK  8  GUIPB,   AND 

a  dark   colour.     When  done,    gamisli  it  on  its  difah. 

with  any  of  the  ragouts  recommended  in  the  preceding 

number. 

No.  438.— SCOTCH  HAGGIS. 

Procure  a  lamb*s  paunch  well  cleansed,  uid  per- 
fectly white — any  butcher  will  oblige  you  with  it.  ^ext, 
parboil  a  lamb's  pluck  in  water  with  salt  and  pepper, 
until  done,  and  chop  it  fine,  l^lace  a  dozen  chomwd 
onions  with  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  fry 
these  over  a  blow  fire  of  a  very  light  colour ;  to  these 
add  the  chopped  liver,  lights,  &c.,  one  pound  of  oatmeal. 
one  pound  of  chopped  beef-suet,  some  chopped  thirme 
and  parsley,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  altogether, 
and  with  this  fill  up  the  lamb*8  paunch,  which  mutt 
have  been  previously  pressed  in  a  cloth  to  absorb  all 
watery  moisture.  Carefully  fasten  any  holes  that  may 
exist  in  the  paunch,  by  tying  them  up  with  string,  and 
then  tie  up  the  Haggis  in  a  cloth  much  in  the  same 
manner  as  you  would  a  pudding,  and  boil  it  in  a  laige 
stewpan  with  enough  stock  or  water  to  cover  it;  the 
haggis  will  require  about  three  hours  very  gentle 
boiling  to  cook  it ;  when  done,  take  it  carefully  out  of 
the  p(4,  and  gently  remove  it  from  the  napkin  on  to  iXf 
dish,  and  serve  it  while  it  is  hot,  and  in  perfection. 

No.  439.— BOILED  LEG  OF  PORK. 

Saw  off  the  shank-bone  from  a  pickled  kg  of  daiir- 
fed  pork,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  with  the 
carrots,  turnips,  and  parsnips  intended  to  be  serred 
with  it,  and  also  a  quart  of  si>lit  peas  previously 
washed  and  soaked  over  night  for  the  purpose ;  let  tfc 
peas  be  lied  up  loosely  in  a  napkin,  and  put  in  the  pot 
lo  boil  with  the  pork.  A  leg  of  pork  weighing  about 
six  pounds  would  requiie  about  two  hours'  gentle  boil 
ing.  W  hen  the  ])ork  is  done,  take  it  up  on  to  its  dij^L 
gurnish  it  round  with  the  carrots,  turnips,  and  panoiipK 
cut  into  neat  shapes ;  pour  some  gravy  over  the  poifc 
and  serve  the  peas-pudding  on  a  separate  dish. 


HOUSXKKBPSB'S  AND  BT7TLER*B  ASSISTANT.  159 

Npte, — ^If  the  peas  for  the  pudding  axe  put  on  to  boil 
at  the  same  time  as  the  pork,  they  will  be  done  in  about 
an  hour  and  a  half.  They  are  then  to  be  taken  out  of  the 
napkin,  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve  or  colander,  mixed 
with  a  pat  of  butter,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  tied  up  as  any  other  pudding,  in  a 
napkin  previously  well  buttered  and  floured ;  and  again 
placed  in  the  pot  with  the  pork,  to  continue  boiling 
until  the  pork  is  done. 

No.  440.— LEG  OF  PORK  GERMAN  FASHION. 

Piokle  a  leg  of  pork  with  four  ounces  of  saltpetre, 
ditto  of  moist  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  cloves,  mace, 
sweet  basil,  and  marjoram,  thyme  and  bay-leaves,  and 
the  usual  quantity  of  common  salt,  and  allow  it  to 
remain  in  this  pickle  for  about  ten  days :  boil  the  leg 
of  pork  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  article,  •  and  when 
done,  dish  it  up  with  dressed  sauerkraut,  or  stewed  red 
cabbage;  surround  it  with  a  border  of  glazed  carrots 
and  onions,  pour  some  poiviade  sauce  over  and  round 
the  pork,  and  serve. 

No.  441.— ROAST  LEG  OF  PORK. 

Make  a  wide  incision  just  below  the  knuckle  of  a  leg 
of  pork — between  the  skin  and  flesh — and  fill  this  with 
Bage-and-onion  stuffing,  No.  297 ;  sew  up  the  opening 
with  twine  ;  score  the  pork  all  over  by  cutting  the  rind 
through  in  narrow  bands  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  spit 
the  joint,  and  roast  it  for  about  two  hours,  basting  it 
frequently;  and  when  done,  dish  it  up  with  brown 
gravy,  and  serve  sage-and-onion  gravy  in  one  sauce-boat, 
uid  apple  sauce  in  another. 

No.  442.— ROAST  SPARERIB. 

This  should  be  lightly  sprinkled  with  salt  the  day 
before  it  is  to  be  dressed  for  table  ;  it  must  then  have 
» long  iron  skewer  thrust  through  it  lengthwise,  and 
&stened  at  each  end  on  the  spit,  and  be  roasted  for  a>)out 


160  THI   cook's  6UIDB,   AXD 

an  honr   and  a  half  before  a  brisk  fire ;    when  cbm^ 
dish  up  with   bro^^'u  gravy,  and   garnish  with  browi 
potatoes — baked  with  a  little   dripping  in  the  oven 
serve  apple  sauce,  and  sage-and-onion  in  separate  saaoe* 
boats. 

Eoast  necks  and  loins  of  pork  are  to  be  dressed 
according  to  the  foregoing  directions. 

No.  443. -HOW  TO  PICKLE  PORK, 

Pork  should  be  pickled  while  perfectly  fresh  :  it  is  a 
very  simple  process,  for  it  requires  only  to  be  rubbed 
every  day  with  plenty  of  common  salt,  for  four  or  five 
mornings;  but,  in  order  to  prevent  the  possibility  of 
failure,  be  it  remembered  that  strict  cleanliness  is 
indispensable  to  success;  and  do  not  forget  that  each 
morning  previously  to  your  going  to  the  pickling  tub,  it 
is  essential  that  you  should  wash  your  hands  in  cold 
water.  About  ten  days'  salting  suffices  to  pickle  pork, 
and  it  must  be  turned  over  in  the  brine  every  morning, 
so  that  it  may  become  equally  saturated. 

No.  444.— BOAST  SUCKING  PIG. 

Fill  the  paunch  of  the  sucking  pig  with  stuffing 
prepared  as  follows  :  viz., — chop  fine  four  onions  and  a 
dozen  sage-leaves;  fry  these  with  two  ounces  of  butter 
over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  half  t 
pound  of  bread-crumbs,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper  and 
salt.  And  thus,  the  pig  being  stuffed,  and  the  paunch 
sewn  up  securely,  roast  it  before  a  brisk  fire  for  about 
two  hours ;  basting  it  frequently — by  means  of  a  paste- 
bnish  dipped  in  salad-oil.  When  the  pig  is  done,  and 
before  removing  it  from  the  spit,  cut  off  the  head,  and 
divide  the  pig  into  halves,  by  sawing  it  straight  down 
the  spine.  Dish  up  the  pig  with  brown  gravy  ;  to  some 
of  the  stufi^ng  add  the  brains  and  a  few  spoonfiiU  oi 
incited  butter  and  serve  this  sauce  separately. 


HOUSXKXBPlB'g  Ain>  BUTLEB'S  ASSISTANT.  161 


Ko.  415w— BOAST  PIG  A  LA  PJBBIQUEUX. 

In  this  case  the  pig  must  be  stufifed  with  tmfiSes 
prepared  as  follows:  viz., — thoroughly  clean  and  peel 
one  pound  of  English  truffles,  the  cost  of  which  would 
.,  be  about  three  shillings;  cut  each  truffle  into  four 
pieces,  and  place  these  in  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pound 
of  chopped  and  pounded  fat  bacon,  chopped  thyme  and 
bay-leaf,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  small  clove 
of  garlic;  simmer  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire  for  ten 
minutes,  and  with  these  truffles,  &c.,  fill  the  paunch  of 
the  sucking-pig.  Haying  securely  sewn  up  the  opening, 
roast  it  as  directed  in  the  preceding  case,  and  when 
done,  and  dished  up,  pour  over  it  some  p^rigueux  sauce, 
No.  67,  and  serve. 

No.  446.— BOAST  PIG  A  LA  OHIPOLATA. 

Prepare  chestnut  stuffing  as  follows :  viz., — scald, 
peel,  and  scrape  fifty  chestnuts,  boil  them  for  about 
twenty  minutes  in  a  pint  of  milk,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a 
little  salt ;  and  when  nearly  done,  drain  the  chestnuts 
dry,  and  mix  them  with  one  pound  of  highly- seasoned 
sausage-meat.  Having  filled  the  paunch  of  the  sucking- 
pig  with  this  stuffing,  roast  it  as  in  the  foregoing  cases. 
When  done,  dish  it  up  with  a  Chipolata  ragodt  round  it. 

Note, — Eoast  suckiig-pig  may  also  be  served  with 
piquante,  tomata,  Proven5ale,  poivrade,  Italian,  or  ham 
bauce. 

No.  447.— BATH  CHAPS. 

Bath  chaps — or  pig's  faces  cured  as  bacon — are  much 
esteemed  by  some  epicures,  and  are  very  good  sub- 
stitutes for  ham  with  roast  turkey,  &c.,  especially  in  an 
economical  point  of  view.  When  about  to  dress  a  bath 
chap,  it  should  be  first  soaked  in  cold  water  for  three 
or  four  hours  previously  to  its  being  boiled  for  about 
an  hour  and  a  half  in  water ;  when  done,  pull  off  the 


162  THS  OOOK'g  QUIDS,  AWD 

rind,  sliake  some  brown  raspings  of  bread  all  over  fiie 
cheek,  dish  it  up  -with  some  kind  of  green  TegetaUe 
round  it,  and  serre. 

No.  US. -CHINE  OF  POBK. 

A  chine  of  pork  is  that  part  which  is  cat  from  a 
bacon-hog  (from  the  iqpper  part  of  the  spine),  between 
the  shonlders ;  it  consists  of  more  fat  than  lean,  and  is 
merely  salted  for  abont  ten  days  in  common  brine  ;  it 
is  to  be  cooked  by  boiling  it  in  plenty  of  water  similaiiy 
to  bacon,  and  serred  np  garnished  with  greens,  as  an  ao- 
campaniment  to  roast  turkey,  &c. 


nOVSSKaSl'BU'B  and   BUTLSBS  AS6I8TANT.  169 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

)IFFEBENT  METHODS  OF  DRESSING  HAMS. 


No.  449.-HOW  TO  SELECT  A  HAM. 

hams  are  justly  considered  the  choicest  among 
sh  hams;  indeed,  I  am  inclined  to  say  that, 
bing  peculiarity  of  taste,  no  kind  of  hams  is 
or  to  a  thorough  good  York  ham :  and,  in  order 
jtter  to  assist  you  in  the  selection  of  good  hams, 
me  to  call  your  attention  to  the  following  par- 
rs: viz., — while  it  is  an  established  fact  that  the 
•reed  of  pigs  is  thin  skinned  and  small  boned,  it 
not  necessarily  follow  that  those  of  thicker  rind 
)  be  treated  with  contempt;  so  far  from  this 
the  case,  I  will  venture  to  assert  that  the  supe- 
T  and  general  qualifications  which  go  to  establish 
laims  of  hams  for  special  selection,  depend  quite 
icli  on  their  mode  of  curing  as  upon  any  other 
leration.  The  determining  points  are  these:  a 
jured  ham,  to  be  in  good  condition  for  dressing, 
i  be  from  six.  months  to  a  year  old,  and  smooth 
ed ;  it  should  feel  springy  to  the  touch,  and  on  being 
d  down  the  knuckle,  and  about  the  thigh-bone 
1  smell  sweet  and  savoury,  and  not  at  all  rancid 
ong.  Depend  upon  it  that  whenever  you  have 
a  hams  possessing  the  before-mentioned  qualities, 
ave  been  fortunate  in  selecting  a  delicacy  worthy 
king  its  appearance  at  the  table  of  an  epicure. 

M  2 


(Ja.  450.— TO  BOIL  A  YOEK  HAM. 


If  this  ham  be  only  three  or  four  months  old,  tha 
will  he  no  occEtaion  to  soak  it  for  any  length  of  tim 
previoufily  to  its  being  cooked;  bat  if,  on  the  ooDtnr 
the  ham  happens  to  be  of  older  standitig.  Bay  npwui 
of  a  year  old,  it  miiHt  be  soaked,  for  twenty-fonr  hom 
at  least,  in  cold  water,  before  it  will  be  really  fit  ft 
cooking.  When  the  ham  has  been  enffioiently  soakH 
take  it  ont  of  the  water,  scrape  off  the  slime  and  din 
Haw  off  the  knuokle,  pare  away  all  the  ron^  exterio 
from  the  under  part ;  and,  having  first  sawed  or  meral; 
chopped  (he  pallet  or  broad  part  of  the  thigh-bcme- 
just  above  the  Bucket,  remore  this  entirely.  This  opei» 
tion  requires  some  care  and  dexterity ;  and,  if  the  open 
lion  has  to  be  performed  by  a  woman,  it  had  perh^ 
bettor  he  left  undone,  as,  to  ray  knowledge,  ladies  u 
.  general  are  nervous  when  handling  a  sharp  knife  undo 
difficulties ;  besides,  it  is  proper  to  state  that,  firom  tbi 
hordness  of  the  ham,  and  the  slipperiness  of  the  boiwi 
the  operation  is  attended  with  danger,  llierefon 
ladies,  I  would  recommend  that  you  should  moid] 
gCTHpo  and  trim  the  ham,  and  put  it  in  a  large  pu  <* 


H0U8XKB£PSJl*8  AND   BUTLSU's  ASSISTANT.  165 

pot  witli  enough  cold  water  to  make  it  swim.     Add  a 

oouple  of  carrots,  onions,  oelory,  a  dozen  cloves,  mace, 

thyme  and  bay-leaves,  and  )x)il  the  ham  very  slowly 

indeed  for  about  four  or  live  hours,  according  to  size 

and  weight:    and  when  the  ham  is  done,  allow  it   to 

become  cold  in  its  own  liquor.     When  cold,  remove  the 

rind  by  gently  slipping  the  ends  of  the  iingors  of  both 

bands  under  tiie  rind  of  the  round  thick  end  of  the  ham, 

and  by  this  means  detach  it  gnidually  without  removing 

any  of  the  fat.     Trim  the  surface  of  tho  fat  Bmoothly 

with  a  knife,  place  it  on  a  baking-sheet  in  the  oven  fur 

ten  minutes,  take  it  out,  dab  it  over  with  a  clean  cloth 

to  absorb  all  grease,  and  with  a  pasto-brush  dipped  in 

liquid  glaze,  paint  it  all  over  to  give  it  a  uniform  bright 

aspect.    When  thoroughly  cold,  gamLsh  with  aspic  jelly 

or  picked  parsley. 

Ao^e. — A  more  economical  way  of  fmiisliing  a  cold 

I       ham  is  to  shake  some  raspings  all  over  tho  fat,  instead 

of  glazing  it,  and  to  decorate  it  all  round  the  edge  of 

tbe  fat  with  a  broad  streak  or  band  of  chopi)ed  parsley, 

pressed  on  with  the  fingers  and  thumb. 

I  need  hardly  add  that,  when  a  liam  is  reciuired  to  bo 
eaten  hot,  after  being  trimmed,  it  must  be  i)laced  in  a 
l^ing-dish  covered  over  with  its  rind,  or  greased 
paper:  add  just  enough  of  its  own  li(j[uor  to  reach  up  to 
the  edge  of  the  fat,  made  hot  in  tho  oven  for  about  half 
an  hour,  and  glazed,  and  garnished  with  iJardiniere, 
Mac^iloino,  spinach,  broad  beans,  green  j)eas,  French 
beans,  Brussels  sprouts,  &c. 

No.  451.— TO  DRESS  A  WKSTPIIALIA  IIAM. 

These  hams  should  be  soaked  for  fortv  ln)urs  at  least, 
and  the  water  changed  once  in  twenty-tour  hours, 
especially  in  summer  time ;  when  soaked,  cleansed,  and 
tnmmed,  they  must  be  put  on  in  cold  water,  and  merely 
mmmered  for  an  hour,  and  then  taken  out  of  this  water, 
and  being  placed  in  a  braizing-pan,  moistened  with 
niflicient  stock  to  cover  them,  garnished  with  caiTots, 


166  THE  cook's  guide,  akd 

onioDs,  celery,  a  clove  of  garlic,  twelve  cloves,  maoe, 
Jamaica  pepper,  marjoram,  thyme,  and  four  bay-leaves. 
Boil,  or  rather  let  the  ham  simmer,  very  gently  foot 
a1)out.fiye  hours,  and  when  done  and  cold,  trim,  glaze, 
and  finish  it  as  directed  in  the  preceding  article. 

Note, — Bear  in  mind  that  it  is  most  essential,  in  order 
to  give  hams  a  fair  chance  of  perfection,  that  they  must 
allowed  to  remain  in  their  own  liqnor  nntQ  cold,  as  by 
that  means  they  retain  all  their  juices. 

No.  452— TO  DBESS  A  SPANISH  HAM. 

Spanish  hams  are  known  under  three  different  deno- 
minations: viz., — Grenada,  Montanches,  and  Bayonne 
hams.  All  these  hams  require  at  least  forty-ei^t 
hours'  soaking,  and  must  be  cooked  with  great  care 
and  attention,  otherwise  they  are  spoilt,  and  are  conse- 
quently not  woi-th  eating.  AVhen  about  to  dress  one  of 
these  hams,  first  soak  it  well,  thoroughly  scrape  and 
cleanse  it,  and  gently  boil  it  in  cold  water  for  an  hour; 
next,  put  it  in  a  braizing-pan  with  a  niirepoix,  No.  300; 
moisten  with  a  pint  of  wine,  and  enough  stock  tx)  cover 
it,  and  simmer  gently  for  about  four  hours ;  allow  the 
ham  to  become  cold  in  its  own  liquor,  and  finish  it  as 
directed  in  No.  450. 

No.  453.— HOW  TO  ROAST  HAlklS. 

Trim,  soak,  cleanse,  and  parboil  a  ham  for  one  hour 
in  water ;  and  then  set  it  to  soak  for  about  a  dav  in  a 
rairepoix.  No.  300,  which  has  been  moistened  with  a 
bottle  of  port  or  madeira.  When  about  to  roast  the 
ham,  take  it  out  of  the  mirepoix,  wrap  it  up  in  two 
large  sheets  of  oiled  paper,  with  all  the  ingredients 
drained  from  the  moisture  or  liquor  of  the  mireptiix, 
and  put  them  round  the  ham  inside  the  paper ;  cover 
the  whole  over  with  water-paste  similarly  to  a  haunch 
of  venison ;  secure  this  with  sheets  of  greased  paper 
fastened  on  with  string ;  then  place  the  ham  thus  pro- 
pared  in  a  cradle-spit,  and  roast  it  befoi-e  a  moderate 


HOUSEKKBPXft's  AMD  BUTLBa'S  ASSISTANT.  167 

fire  for  about  three  hours,  basting  it  frequently.  At 
the  end  of  this  time  take  the  ham  out  of  the  paste  it 
has  been  roasting  in,  being  careful  to  make  a  hole  in 
the  paste,  so  as  to  enable  you  to  pour  out  the  essence  or 
gravy  which  surrounds  it,  and  use  this  gravy  and  the 
fore-mentioned  mirepoix  liqnor  to  add  to  some  tomata 
sauce,  to  be  boiled  together  for  the  purpose  of  saucing 
the  ham  with  when  it  has  been  glazed  and  dished  up. 
These  hams  may  be  garnished  similarly  to  any  of  the 
preceding. 

No.  454.--BAEED  HAM& 

Trim,  soak,  cleanse,  and  bone  the  ham,  and  having 
parboiled  it  for  one  hour  in  water,  place  it  in  a  deep 
baking-dish ;  add  a  wine  mirepoix.  No.  300 ;  cover  it 
first  with  oiled  paper,  and  then  with  water  and  flour 
crust,  just  as  you  would  a  meat  pie;  put  it  in  a 
moderate  oven  to  bake  for  about  three  hours,  taking 
ears  to  replenish  the  moisture  with  stock,  so  as  not  to 
leave  the  ham  dry  in  its  baking-dish.  When  done, 
-  finish  and  dish  up  as  in  the  preceding  case. 

Note, — Baked  hams  are  nearly  as  delicious  as  roasted, 
iOid  give  infinitely  less  trouble  in  their  preparation. 


IG8  THS  OOOK^  GUIDK,   A«]> 


CHAPTER  IX. 
REMOVES  OF  VENISON.  RED  DEEB,  AND  ROKBUOK. 


No.  455.— ROAST  HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 

Saw  oflf  the  shank-bone,  remove  the  sinew,  pare  away 
the  dark  dry  skin  &om  the  skirt,  and  also  the  dried 
snrfJEu^e  of  the  nnder  part  Then  coyer  the  hannoh  with 
a  large  sheet  of  well-greased  paper,  and  over  that  place 
a  covering  of  flour-and-water  paste,  abont  half  an  inch 
in  thickness ;  envelop  the  whole  with  two  large  sheeti 
of  greased  paper  secnrely  tied  on  with  string ;  place  the 
venison  in  a  cradle-spit,  and  set  it  down  before  the  fire, 
to  roast  for  about  four  hours,  more  or  less,  the  exact 
space  of  time  depending  upon  the  size  and  weight  of 
the  haunch.  When  about  to  take  it  up  from  the  fire, 
the  paste  and  paper  should  be  removed ;  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over  it,  and  after  dredging  the  surface  with  flour, 
oaste  it  with  dissolved  butter  poured  through  a  straining- 
spoon,  and  froth  it  by  moans  of  the  red-hot  salamander. 
Dish  up  with  brown  gravy,  and  sei've  currant  jelly,  and 
French  beans,  separately. 

Note. — The  following  sauce  is  appropriate  for  roost 
venison,  or  roast  mutton :  viz., — to  one  pound  of  cur- 
rant jelly  add  a  gill  of  port  wine,  the  thin  rind  of 
a  lemon,  and  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon  bruised ;  stir 
the  whole  over  the  fire  imtil  dissolved,  without  boiling 
strain  through  a  coarse  tin  strainer,  and  serve  in  a 
sauce-boat 


HOOSEKKEnBfi  S  AND   BUTLEB  8   ABBISTAKT.  169 

No.  45t.— BOAST  SHOULDER  OF  VENISON. 

A  shoulder  of  venison  to  be  fit  for  roasting  should  be 
very  ripe ;  that  is,  it  must  have  hung  for  something 
like  a  fortnight,  in  order  to  admit  of  the  sinews  and 
fibres  of  the  meat  becoming  well  mortified  by  keeping 
it  hung  in  a  well-ventilated  cool  s^tmosphere.  When 
about  to  roast  a  shoulder  of  venison,  let  it  be  enveloped 
in  greased  paper,  and  paste,  similarly  to  the  haunch ;  it 
will  take  about  one  hour  and  three-quarters  roasting. 
and  must  be  frothed  and  served  as  recommended  for  the 
haunch. 

I^ote. — It  is  essential  to  cover  a  shoulder  of  venison 
with  mutton  fat,  previously  to  roasting  it,  as  it  has  none 
of  its  own. 

No.  457.— ROAST  NECK  OF  VENISON. 

Saw  off  the  spine-bone,  and  remove  the  small  flat 
bones  which  cover  the  fillet  part  of  the  neck ;  shorten 
the  ribs  by  sawing  them  across  without  cutting  through 
the  fat,  which,  after  the  upper  bones  are  removed,  must 
be  rolled  over  the  ribs ;  wi  ap  the  neck  thus  trimmed  in 
greased  paper,  then  in  a  crust  of  flour-and-water  paste ; 
and  finally  envelop  it  in  greased  paper  securely  tied 
on  with  string,  and  roast  it  in  a  cradle-spit  before  a 
moderate  fire  for  about  an  hour  and  three-quarters; 
when  done,  serv,e  as  indicated  for  a  haunch. 

No.  458.-HATJNCH  OF  RED  DEER. 

The  red  deer  is  a  noble  animal,  and  affords  good 
sport  to  the  experienced  marksman ;  its  flesh  is,  1  be- 
lieve, much  esteemed  in  Scotland,  and  more  especially 
by  sportsmen,  who  insist  that  its  flavour  ranks  high 
with  aU  connoisseurs.  I  cannot  agree  with  their  verdict ; 
for  I  have  the  bad  taste,  perhaps,  to  consider  red  deer 
venison  both  coarse  and  strong,  and  admitting  of  no 
oomparison  with  our  well-fed  buck  venison  :  doe  venison 
»8  unworthy  the  epicure's  notice. 


170  THS  cook's  GUIDS,  AMD 

Allow  me,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  whenever  yon  ba^ 
occasion  to  purchase  venison,  to  advise  yon  to  go  strai^ 
to  Thomas  Grove,  of  Charing  Cross;  and  pray  don 
take  the  tronble  to  select  for  yourself,  but  leave  a 
responsibility  to  Mr.  (xrove,  and  then  I  will  nndertal 
to  promise  you  that  you  will  be  satisfied. 

When  about  to  dress  red-deer  venison,  bear  in  nun 
that  it  must  have  hung  three  weeks — if  possible,  tlu 
is,  weather  permitting :  whichever  the  joint,  it  must  I 
well  covered  with  thick  layers  of  mutton  £ftt ;  and  mm 
be  papered  and  pasted  over  in  the  uSual  way.  An  ord 
nary-sized  haunch  of  red  deer  will  take  about  five  honn 
roasting:  follow  in  all  particulars  the  instructions  fo 
cooking  a  haunch  of  venison. 

No.  459.— VENISON  FBY. 

AVhat  is  termed  a  venison  fry  consists  of  the  muzzli 
the  heart,  liver,  skirts,  melt,  and — what  I  must  her 
designate  the  delicacies;  it  forms  altc^tker  a  disi 
which  I,  for  one,  should  never  have  a  desire  to  partab 
of;  but  as  most  people's  taste  in  this  case  seems  to 
diflfer  from  mine,  I  must  give  rules  how  to  cook  it 
When  it  falls  to  your  lot  to  have  to  dress  a  venison  fijt 
cut  the  heart,  melt,  liver,  kidneys,  muzzle,  and  the 
etceteras  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  seaMHi 
with  pepper  and  salt,  flour  them  over,  and  fry  them  of  • 
brown  colour  over  a  brisk  fire  ;  and  when  done,  dish  up 
with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  separately,  in  a  sauce-boat, 
some  thick  highly-seasoned  brown  gravy,  or  poivrade 
sauce.     Currant  jelly  may  be  served  separately. 

No.  460.— VENISON  CHOPS. 

Venison  chops  are  justly  considered  a  great  de- 
licacy ;  and  when  cut  from  quite  ripe,  well-fed  veniacm 
well-cooked,  full  of  their  own  inimitable  gravy,  an€ 
served  with  some  plain  stewed  mushrooms,  they  cer 
tainly  are  worthy  of  their  claims  to  the  notice  of  epi 
cores. 


HOUSICKEEPER'S  AND   BUTLSB's   ASSISTANT.  171 

liOt  these  chops  be  cut  an  inch  thick,  neither  Leaten 
Bor  tiimmed  of  their  fat,  peppered  and  salted,  and  placed 
on  a  bright  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  be  careful  to  turn 
thorn  over  every  two  minntes ;  about  twenty  to  five  and 
twenty  minutes  will  suffice  to  cook  them:  dish  them 
on  a  hot  dish,  with  a  small  pat  of  fresh  butter  under 
«w;h  chop,  and  serve  immediately  with  an  Irish  mealy 
potato. 

Don't  forget  the  plain  stewed  mushrooms.  These  ai'O 
prepared  with  a  bit  of  butter,  salt,  and  gravy. 

No.  461.-BOEBUOK. 
Plainly  dressed  i-oebuck  is  a  very  sorry  kind  of  food ; 
it  is  really  good  only  when  it  is  larded,  and  pickled 
in  a  marinade,  and  served  vrith  a  good  sauce,  or  else 
loade  into  a  haricot,  or  jugged  in  the  same  way  as  it  is 
customary  to  jug  hares.  At  present  I  will  instruct  you 
W  to  dress  a  haunch  of  roebuck : — 
First,  saw  off  the  shank-bone,  and  also  the  spine- 
me ;  and  then,  having  pared  away  the  superficial  skin 
fc)ni  the  outer  part  of  the  leg,  and  also  along  the  loin, 
jet  these  bare  places  be  closely  larded ;  and  when  this 
^  completed,  set  the  roebuck  to  steep  in  sufficient 
liaarinade.  No.  299,  to  cover  its  surface ;  and  allow  it 
to  remain  in  this  pickle  for  a  week ;  it  will  then  be  fit 
to  dress ;  and  when  about  to  cook  the  roebuck,  spit  it, 
8nd  roast  it  before  a  clear  fire  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
^alf,  bafiting  it  very  frequently,  as  otherwise  it  would 
certainly  eat  dry ;  and  when  it  is  done,  glaze  it,  dish  it 
np  with  fancy-shaped  fried  potatoes,  or  German  quenelles, 
^0-  3o*i,  and  groups  of  stewed  prunes,  sauce  over  with 
poi\Tade,  and  serve  hot. 

A'o^e, — Larded  roebuck  may  also  be  braized  and  gar- 
jiished  with  the  same  ragouts,  &c.,  as  recommended  for 
larded  joints  of  mutton. 

No.  462.— HARICOT  OF  ROEBUCK. 
w  this  purpose  take  a  shoulder  or  a  neck  of  roe 
"^ck,  or  both ;  and  cut  the  meat  off  the  shoulder  in 


172  THS  COOKS  GI7IDE.  AXD 

pieces  about  two  inches  square,  and  the  neck  in  H 
cutlets — say  two  bones  to  each ;  fry  these  pieces  i 
two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan  over  a  hiitk 
until  they  are  browned ;  then  pour  off  all  grease,  si 
in  a  good  handful  of  flour,  stir  together,  moisten  i 
sufficient  stock  or  water  to  cover  the  meat ;  season  ^ 
pepper  and  salt,  and  v^etables,  and  stir  it  over  the 
until  it  boils ;  remove  it  to  the  comer  of  the  stovi 
allow  it  to  throw  up  the  scum,  which  remove  wil 
spoon.  When  the  meat  is  done,  strain  the  sauce  f 
it  into  a  stewpan  to  be  further  reduced  with  a  g 
of  port  wine,  and  two  ounces  of  currant  jeUy;  1 
the  pieces  of  meat,  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
carrots,  turnips,  and  onions ;  add  the  sauce,  and  n 
the  whole  hot  before  dishing  up  the  haricot. 

Do  not  forget  that  the  vegetables  used  for  the  bar 
must  be  neatly  shaped  in  pieces  or  forms  not  exceed 
an  inch  in  size. 

No.  463.— CUTLETS  OF  ROEBUCK. 

Saw  off  the  upper  bones  of  the  ribs  of  a  neck  of  i 
buck,  leaving  the  cutlet-bones  barely  three  inches 
length ;  saw  off  the  spine-bone :  remove  the  fiat  be 
which  cover  the  meaty  part  of  the  neck,  and  then  ^ 
a  sharp  knife  separate  the  bones— cutting  slantwise 
tween  each  rib-bone;  thus,  the  cutlets  being  so 
shaped,  scrape  away  all  meat  from  the  small  or  up 
end  of  the  bone,  to  the  extent  of  half  an  inch  :  flatten 
cutlet  slightly  with  a  cutlet-bat  (see  Adams'  lllxKl 
tions,  &C.J  ;  trim  the  meaty  part  neatly  round:  sea 
with  peppec  and  salt ;  dip  each  cutlet  separately  in  cl; 
fled  butter ;  bread-crumb  and  broil  them ;  dish  up,  i 
serve  piquante  sauce  roimd  the  base  of  the  entree. 


aotrBBKUU-KB  B  AHD  DUTLBBI  ABSIBTAHF. 


CHAPTEEX. 
BEMOVES  OF  POULTBT  AND  GAME. 

No.  464.-BOA8T  TURKEY. 


"wiv  the  turkey  by  making  an  incision  at  the  back 
If  the  neck,  and  cutting  away  the  vent  to  the  extent  of 
•n  inch  in  circumference ;  and,  thrusting  tho  middle 
^KK  of  both  hands  simultaneously  through  these 
''peoings,  draw  out  the  whole  of  the  inside,  reserving 
uie  liTer  and  gizzard,  which  after  being  freed  from  gall 
wd  digester  (the  pouch  of  the  gizzard  containing 
'lOMa.Ac,),  are  to  be  reserved  for  the  purpose  of  tucking 
^i  respectively  through  a  slit  made  in  the  wings.  Cut 
"ff  the  bead  and  neck,  scald  tho  feet,  and  pull  off  the 
™lgh  dirty  skin ;  "jutaway  the  claws  ;  fill  the  inside  and 
pouch  of  the  turkey  with  sausage-meat,  or  \eal-stuffing ; 
•"*  when  trussed  with  Bkewei*a  or  string,  roast  it  before 


174  THB   C0OK*8   OVIDB,   AND 

a  good  fire,  basting  it  frequently  to  keep  its  graTy  in  ii 
and  by  this  means  prevent  it  from  eating  dry,  which  i 
a  very  general  complaint  with  roast  turkeys, — ^not  fincM 
any  want  of  moisture  in  the  fiesh  of  the  bird,  but  froi 
neglecting  to  baste  it  well  while  it  is  being  roastec 
And  when  the  tuikey  is  done,  dish  it  up  with  frie 
sausages  round  it ;  pour  some  good  brown  gravy  ove: 
and  serve  bread  sauce,  No.  70,  separately. 

No.  465.-TURKEY  A  LA  OHIPOLATA. 

Stuff  and  roast  a  turkey  as  directed  in.  the  for^inj 
number ;  dish  it  up  with  a  Chipolata  ragout.  No.  123 
garnish  also  with  a  border  of  decorated  quenelles,  wbei 
the  dish  is  intended  for  a  grand  display  of  taste,  Ac 

No.  466.— TUBKEY  A  LA  PROVENCALE. 

Prepare  the  following  kind  of  stuffing :  viz., — dtfp 
and  parboil  for  a  few  minutes* only,  six  large  onions; 
drain  them  in  a  sieve,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  yn^ 
four  ounces  of  butter,  the  crumb  of  two  Frendi  roll* 
previously  soaked  in  milk,  chopped  parslej,  nninic^ 
pepper  and  salt,  six  yolks  of  e^s,  a  few  truffles  cot  in 
slices ;  stir  the  whole  over  the  fire  until  set  in  a  com- 
paratively firm  paste,  and  use  this  stuffing  to  fill  the 
turkey  with ;  truss  and  roast  it  in  the  usual  way,  tn^ 
when  done,  and  dished  up,  pour  some  p^rigueux  or 
truffle,  or  tomata  sauce,  over  it^  and  serve.  This,  "wben 
properly  cooked,  is  decidedly  one  of  the  best  things  it  is 
Dossible  to  place  on  a  dinner-table. 

No.  4G7.— BOILED  TUBKEY. 

Truss  the  turkey  for  boiling,  place  it  in  a  large  stew* 
pan,  with  carrot,  onion  stuck  with  six  cloves,  cekiyi 
garnished  faggot  of  parsley,  a  few  peppercorns,  aivl  * 
small  handfal  of  salt;  moisten  with  white  stock  oi 
water,  just  enough  to  cover  the  turkey;  boil  gently 
until  done  tender;  drain  thoroughly,  dish  up.  potf 
either  parsley  sauce  or  celery,  or  oyster  sauce,  over  tin 


HOnSSKEEPEBS  AND  BUTLBB's  ASSISTANT.  170 

tnrkoj ;  garnish  it  round  with  alternate  slices  of  tongue 
or  fried  hacon,  and  veal  stuffing  previously  boiled  in  a 
cloth,  rolled  up  in  the  form  of  a  short  rolling-pin,  and 
afterwards  cut  up  in  slices. 

^0.  46ar-BOILED  TUBKEY  A  LA  T0BK6HIBE. 

Gut  off  the  legs  of  a  turkey  ;  scald,  trim,  and  set  them 
aside :  bone  the  turkey  without  removing  the  wings ; 
nearly  fill  the  inside  with  veal  forcemeat,  No.  185  ; 
thrust  a  trimmed  boiled  red  tongue  down  the  middle 
of  the  forcemeat ;  close  the  pouch  of  the  turkey  by  sewing 
it  up  securely,  and  truss  the  turkey  for  boiling,  inserting 
the  feet  in  their  natural  position,  and  give  it  as  nearly 
as  possible  its  original  form.     The  turkey  thus  far  pre- 

Kred,  must  be  sown  up  in  a  buttered  napkin,  and 
iled  very  gently  indeed  in  order  not  to  burst  it. 
When  done,  dish  up  the  turkey ;  garnish  round  with  a 
hold  Jardiniere  of  vegetables,  sauce  with  Bechamel  or 
any  kind  of  white  sauce,  and  serve. 

SgU.-^  Bear  in  mind  that,  when  carving  a  turkey  a 
la  Yorkshire,  the  slices  must  be  cut  from  across  the 
l^reast,  so  as  to  give  to  each  guest  a  slice  composed  of 
^nal  parts  of  tongue,  turkey,  and  forcemeat  holding 
together.  Turkeys  dressed  in  this  fashion,  masked  with 
oream  Bechamel  sauce,  decorated  with  tiiifflo,  tongue,  <fec, 
*nd  garnished  round  with  aspic  jelly,  form  an  elegant 
dish  for  ball-suppers. 

No.  469.--^APON  A  LA  PEMGUEUX. 

Stuff  a  capon  with  truffles  as  directed  for  sucking-pig, 
No.  445  ;  truss  it  in  the  usual  way  ;  roast  and  di«h  it  up ; 
gwnish  with  quenelles ;  sauce  with  p^riguoux  sauce, 
No.  67,  and  serve. 

No.  470.— CAPON  A  LA  PIEMONTAISE. 

Stuff  a  capon  with  truffles  as  in  the  preceding  num- 
^r;  roast  and  dish  it  up  ;  garnish  with  raviolis,  No 
^67,  pour  some  tomata  sauce,  No.  21,  over  it,  and  serve. 


No.ft7L— GAFON  A  lA  BKGElfCB. 


TnuB,  lard,  and  brusn  a  capon  as  directed  for 
inga  neckof  mntton.  No.  419,  without  picUing  it 
when  glazed  and  dished  up,  garnish  with  a  Toi 
ragout,  No.  105,  and  seire. 

No  472.— BOILED  CAPON. 
Tmas  a  capon,  and  wrap  it  np  in  a  sheet  uf  bol 
paper,  tied  on  securely  with  string :  put  it  on  tt 
with  carrot,  onion,  and  garnished  bouquet,  moia 
with  stock  or  vrater  enough  to  cover  it,  and  a  little 
and  when  done,  dish  it  up  'with  cauliflowers,  or  br 
pour  some  B^hamel,  or  any  other  white  sauce  ov 

ybtc. — Boiled  ca]KinK,  fowls,  or  chickens  may  al 
sers-ed  with  any  kind  of  vegetable  gamieb,  sni 
Jardiniere,  Mac^oine,  &c.,  or  'n'itb  Toulouse,  F 
ci^re,  Uilanese,  mnshroom,  and  tmfiBe  r^oat 

No.  473.-BOILED  CHICKEK  AND  BACOS. 
Truss  and  boil  a  chicken  as  in  the  foregoing  nun 
strain  and  boil  down  the  broth  from  the  chickei 
use  it  to  make  some  pan-ley  sauce,  ^~o.  48,  and 
the  chicken  is  dished  op,  jxiur  the  green  partJey 
over  it,  and  serve  boiled  streaky  bacon  on  a  sej 
dish ;  garnish  with  any  EaTourite  vegetable  in  seaa 


uoubekbjepbb's  and  bvtlkb's  assistant.         177 

No.  474.— GROUSE  A  LA  KINNAIRD. 

tuff  the  grouse  or  black  game  with  forcemeat,  No. 
.  or  merely  with  fowls  or  game  livers,  pounded  with 
it  of  butter,  shalot,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  truss 
roast  thein ;  and  when  done,  dish  up  with  a  Finan- 
B  ragout,  No.  104. 

No.  475.— BLACK  GABIE  A  LA  EOYALE. 

ross  and  lard  closely  a  black  cock  or  gray  hen ; 
t  or  braize  it,  and  when  done,  and  dished  up,  gar- 
with  a  white  ragout  and  a  border  of  rissolettes  made 
igame. 

No.  476.-CniCKEN  AND  RICE. 

russ  a  chicken  for  boiling,  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
I  half  a  pound  of  parboiled  rice  and  an  ounce  of 
er,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  little  salt ;  moisten  with 
te  stock,  or  water  enough  to  well  cover  the  fowl  and 
;  place  a  round  of  buttered  paper  on  the  top,  put  the 
m,  and  set  the  whole  to  simmer  ver}-  gently  indeed 

a  slow  fire  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  and 
n  the  chicken  is  done,  remove  it  from  the  rice,  and 
e  it  on  its  dish ;  add  two  yolks  of  eggs,  half  a  gill  of 
m,  a  very  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  the  rice  ; 

over  the  fire  until  quite  hot,  and  with  a  spoon 
dsh  ueatly  round  the  chicken,  and  serve. 
'ote. — If  the  chicken  is  intended  for  a  child,  or  an 
ilid,  leave  out  iJie  butter,  cream,  spice,  and  eggs. 

No.  477.— CHICKEN  A  LA  ROMAINE. 

rnss  and  boil  a  chicken  or  fowl,  and  when  dished  up, 
lish  with  tagliarini  (a  species  of  Italian  paste 
mbling  ribands),  cooked  and  dressed  with  cheese 
ilarly  to  macaroni ;  surround  this  with  Italian 
)etti,  No.  354,  pour  some  tomata  sauce.  No.  21,  over 
chicken  and  outside  the  polpetti,  and  serve. 


178  TUK    cook's    ODIDK,    AHD 

Ko.  478.— CHICKEN  A  LA  UILANAI8B. 
Stuff  a  cMckeo  or  fowl  with  &t  UveTs,  aa  in  No.  i 
tru£s  it  for  boiling,  aud  having  roasted  and  disha 
ap,  Borround  it  with  Uilanwe  ragout,  Ho.  126 ;  gui 
with  a  border  of  ris«olettes,  and  serve. 

No.  479.-CH1CKENS  AND'TONGU*. 


Boil  two  spring  chickens,  and  when  done,  place  it 
in  a  dish,  with  a  triiumed  tungae  well  glazed  in 
eentre  :  garnish  with  cauliflowera,  or  brocoli,  sauce 
chickens  and  vegetables  with  white  sauce,  and  tterve 

if oZ-r.— Chickens  or  fowls  served  with  tongiie, 
above,  may  also  be  garnished  with  Maccdoiue,  or  J 
dinicre,  or  any  other  dressed  vegetable. 

So,  480.-PHEASAXT  A  LA  POBTUGUAISE, 
Braize  a  pheasant  with  some  wine  mirepoii.  No.  i 
auJ  when  done,  dish  it  up,  gamidh  with  qnenellef 
polenta.  No.  356 ;  eauce  with  tomata  sauce  made  v 
the  braize  from  the  pheasant,  and  serve. 

The  polenta  quenelles  are  made  as  follows :  vi: 
put  three  gills  of  milk,  and  four  ounces  of  butter 
stewpau  on  the  fire  ;  and,  as  soon  as  the  milk  rises, 
in   six  ounces  of  Indian   corn-flour  nr  polent*: 


em  in  boiling  water.  Kemember  that  if  these 
8  are  allowed  to  boil  fast,  they  will  be  spoilt. 

No.  481,— PHEASANT  A  LA  GITANA. 

a  pheasant  as  for  boiling,  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
fa  pound  of  streaky  bacon  cut  in  squares  of  about 
add  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a  clove  of  garlic  ;  fry 
fier  over  the  fire,  until  the  pheasant  has  become 
)rowned  all  over ;  then  pour  off  all  grease,  add 
Qgal  onions,  and  four  ripe  tomatas,  sliced  thin, 

glasses  of  sherry ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  set  the 
to  stew  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  threo- 
of  an  hour,  gently  shaking  the  pheasant  round 
illy ;  just  bewre  dishing  up,  add  a  teaspoonful 
red  Spanish  pepper. 
-All  kinds  of  game  and  poultiy,  or  indeed  all 

meat,  or  firm-fleshed  fish,  are  most  excellent 
)ssed  k  la  Gitana,  or  gipsy  fashion. 

To.  482.— PHEASANTS  A  LA  FLAMANDE. 

two  pheasants  as  for  boiling,  and  put  them  in  a 
with  two  good-sized  cabbages  (previously  half- 
lalf  a  pound  of  streaky  bacon,  aponnd  of  German 
and  also  a  poimd  of  pork  sausages,  carrot,  onion 


180  THB  OOOE'8   GUI1>«,   AXD 

turnips  (boiled  in  nulk  and  water  to  keep  tl 
with  which  to  dish  up  the  pheasants ;  poor  son 
or  salmis  sauce  orer  the  pheasants  only,  and 

No.  483.— BOILED  PHEASANT  A  LA  SOI 

Truss  a  pheasant  to  boil,  and  when  done, 
and  pour  over  it  some  Soubise  sauce.  No.  5 
has  been  mixed  a  gill  of  cream;  garnish  y 
croquets  and  serve. 

If  Soubise  sauce  is  considered  either  too  e: 
too  much  trouble,  use  plain  onion  sauce.  No. 

Nate. — Boiled  pheasants  may  also  be  si 
celery  sauce,  or  with  oyster  sauce. 

No.  484.— BOAST  PHEASANT,  LIVEB  STl 

Procure  half  a  pound  of  fat  livers,  fry  thei 
ounces  of  fat  ham.  two  shalots,  a  truffle,  a  Ij 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  and  when  nearly  d 
aU  well  together  in  a  mortar,  and  use  this 
fill  the  inside  of  a  pheasant ;  truss  and  roast 
it  frequently,  and  when  done,  serve  it  witl 
sauce,  or — merely  for  economy's  sake— with  b 

Note. — All  kinds  of  game  may  be  dresse 
with  equal  advantage. 

No.  485.-BBAIZED  PABTBIDGES  WITH  CI 
See  Pheasants,  No.  482. 

No.  486  -PABTBIDGES  A  LA  VICTOl 

A  remove  dish  will  require  three  or  four 
partridges  must  be  partially  boned,  by  rei 
whole  of  the  breast-bone  from  the  interior, 
any  degree  deforming  the  breast  ITie  bii 
reasonably  filled  with  game  forcemeat  in  t 
have  been  mixed  a  few  truffles  cut  in  small  d 
to  be  trussed  up  round  and  plump,  and  be 
and  neatly  larded,  sLould  be  braized  in  win 


and  a  tiny  pmcn  ot  cayenne ;  ana  use  tnis  sauce 
:  over  the  partridges  when  dished  up;  garnish 
?7ith  mushrooms  au  gratin,  and  serve. 

487.— PAETRIDGE8  A  LA  PRINCE  OF  WALES. 

yve  the  fillets  from  three  or  four  partridges ;  truss 
•casses  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  though  they 
t  been  deprived  of  their  fillets;  braize  them, 
ly  avoiding  to  break  or  disturb  the  natural  posi- 
their.legs  ;  and  when  done,  set  them  to  become 
1  their  own  stock.  Meanwhile,  prepare  some 
.6  forcemeat,  No.  185,  using  the  fillets  of  par- 
for  the  purpose ;  and  when  finished,  use  this  to 
the  vacuity  occasioned  by  the  removal  of  the 
so  as  to  admit  of  the  partridges  resuming  their 
.  -shape :  their  surface  must  be  smoothed  over 
knife  dipped  in  hot  water ;  and,  after  being 
mtly  painted  all  over  with  slightly-beaten  white 
,  the  forcemeat  breasts  are  to  be  decorated  ^\  ith 
ruffle,  or  red  tongue  cut  in  thin  slices  and  stamped 
bh  tin  cutters,  in  the  shape  of  leaves,  lozenges, 
ngs,  &c.,  and  placed  and  arranged  in  the  form  of 
8,  sprigs  of  plants,  mosaics,  or  any  other  fanciful 
I.     And  when  this  has  been  accomplished,  place 

•tridorp,R  in  a.  dftpn  fi'iPATid pan  "naTi-  with  instpnoncrh 


182  THK  cook's  QUIDI^  AH]> 

wit};  cocks'  combs,  button  mushrooms,  traffles,  and  sm 
quenelles ;  and  some  Allemande  sauce,  No.  17,  finisl 
or  made  with  the  stock  the  carcasses  were  braized 
is  to  be  poured  round,  without  masking  the  decoratiGa 
Note. — All  kinds  of  game  maj  be  prepared  as  aboTC 

No.  488.— PHEASANT  WITH  SAGE  AND  ONION. 

Stuff  the  pheasant  with  sage  and  onion.  No.  297,  tn 
and  roast  it  in  the  usual  way,  and  when  dished  up,  a 
sei-ved  with  rich  brown  gravy,  you  will  taste  an  ordina 
dish,  it  is  true,  but  at  the  same  time  a  good  thing  wki 
you  will  certainly  desire  to  see  repeated. 

No.  489.— BOAST  GOOSE  WITH  SAGE  AND  ONION. 

Stuff  the  goose  with  sage  and  onions.  No.  297,  tr 
and  roast  it  before  a  brisk  fire,  for  about  an  hour  aiM 
half,  basting  it  frequently ;  and  when  done,  dish  it 
with  good  brown  gravy,  and  serve  apple  sauce,  No. 
separately. 

No.  490.— BBAIZED  GOOSE  A  LA  JARDINIERE. 

Truss  a  goose  for  boiling,  and  place  it  in  a  brairi] 
pan  with  the  usual  complement  of  stock  vegetables, 
cloves,  mace,  peppercorns,  and  garnished  bouqu 
moisten  with  just  enough  stock  or  water  to  cover 
goose,  and  set  it  to  braize  slowly  for  about  two  hoo 
remembering  that  the  lid  of  the  pan  should  be  cove 
with  live  embers,  and  that  the  goose  must  be  j&^queii 
basted  with  its  o\^ti  liquor.  AVhen  the  goose  is  dc 
drained,  and  dished  up,  garnish  it  round  with  spr 
Jardiniere,  No.  102,  saiice  it  over  with  brown  sauce 
which  there  has  been  incorporated  the  stock  from 
goose,  previously  freed  from  grease,  and  boiled  dowi 
half-glaze. 

No-  491.— GOOSE  A  LARLE8IENNE. 

Trepare  some   Provengale   stuffing,  as   indicated 
No.  4(>0,  to  which  add  thirty  deanod  roasted  chestn 


housekeepbb's  and  butlbus  assistant.  I8i$ 

ind  use  it  to  fill  the  inside  of  a  goose  ;  braize  it  in 
ittirepoix,  No.  300,  and  when  done,  drain  it,  strain  its 
liquor,  remove  the  grease,  and  having  boiled  the  liquor 
down  to  half-glaze,  add  it  to  some  tomata  sauce  or  pulp, 
and  pour  it  over  the  goose  when  dished  up,  and  gar- 
nished with  a  border  of  tomatas  au  gratin. 

No.  492.-STEWED  DUCKS  A  KESPAGNOLE. 

Truss  a  duck  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  put  it  in  a 
stewpan  with  parsley,  bay-leaf,  and  thyme,  tied  to- 
gether ;  some  pieces  of  carrot  and  celeiy,  a  small  clove 
of  garlic,  and  an  onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  a  little 
«alt,  and  half  a  gill  of  salad  oil ;  fry  the  duck  in  this, 
of  a  light-brown  colour  all  over,  on  a  stove  fire ; 
moisten  with  stock  or  water,  and  set  the  duck  to 
tauze  very  gently  for  about  an  hour.  AVhen  done, 
take  it  up,  stmin  the  liquor,  remove  the  gi'ease,  boil 
the  liquor  down  to  half-glaze,  add  a  little  brown  sauce, 
and  thiee  dozen  turned  olives  ;  allow  this  to  stew  with 
the  duck  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  servo. 

No.  493.— STEWED  DUCK  WITH  PEAS. 

Truss  a  duck  and  braize  it  in  the  usual  way;  and 
while  this  is  going  on,  shred  a  lettuce  fine,  and  put  it  in  a 
Btewpan  with  a  quart  of  peas,  a  faggot  of  green  onions  and 
parsley,  an  ounce  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  gill  of 
water ;  put  the  lid  on  the  stewpan,  and  set  the  ))eas  to 
stew  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  twenty-five 
minutes,  tossing  them  up  occasionall}^  to  admit  of  their 
being  done  equally;  and,  when  the  peas  aio  boconKj 
soft,  and  are  done,  should  thoro  happen  to  bo  too  mwvh 
moisture,  boil  down  on  the  fire  until  reduced ;  add  a 
dessert-siwonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a  good  pat  of  butter 
kneaded  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  ilour ;  work  this  ii. 
with  the  peas  to  bind  them,  and  use  them  to  garnish 
the  duck  when  dished  up  :  sauce  over  all,  with  thj 
8*ock  from  the  duck,  previously  boiled  down  to  a  glaze 


184  THE   COOK*S   GUIDE,   AND 

No.  494.— BRAIZED  DUCK  WITH  TUBNIPS. 

Truss  a  duck  and  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with 
ounces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  garni 
bouquet,  and  set  this  to  fry  gently  over  a  slow 
until  the  duck  is  equally  browned  all  over ;  then  s! 
in  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  together  i 
the  flour  and  butter  are  smoothly  mixed,  and 
moisten  with  stock  or  water  enough  to  cover  the  d 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  boils;  remove  it  to 
side  to  continue  gently  simmering  for  about  t 
quarters  of  an  hour,  in  order  to  cook  it,  and  at 
same  time  to  allow  it  to  throw  up  all  impurities,  w 
should  be  removed  every  now  and  then.  Simult 
ously  with  the  duck,  and  in  the  same  stewpan,  t 
should  be  stewed  some  turnips  cut  or  turned  in  any  £ei 
shape — the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg ;  these  turnips  i 
be  fried  in  a  little  butter  over  the  fire,  of  a  light  06. 
previously  to  their  being  added  to  the  duck.  \^ 
the  duck  is  done,  skim  away  all  giease,  first  take 
the  duck  and  place  it  on  its  dish,  then  carefully  d 
the  turnips,  and  place  them  round  it :  and  if  the  s 
happens  to  be  too  thin,  boil  it  down  by  stirring  it 
the  fire;  ascertain  that  the  seasoning  is  satisfaci 
strain  and  pour  it  over  the  duck,  &c.,  and  serve. 

Note. — Observe  that  ducks,  or  indeed   any  kin( 
poultry  or  game,  may  be  cooked  according  to  the 
going  simple  method ;  and,  for  variety  sake,  peai 
any  other  vegetable — such  as  onions,  carrots,  celer 
mushrooms,  &c. — may  be  substituted  for  turnips. 

Note. — For  removes  of  beef  or  mutton,  &c.,  or  poultry  or  ; 
&e..  of  a  richer  or  more  varied  style,  aee  my  **  Modem  C 
Thirteenth  Edition,  1861. 


HOUSXKUSPXB'b  and   BUTLSB'B   A881BTAKT.  185 


CHAPTEE  XI 
MEAT  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 


No.  495.— CHICKEN  AND  HAM  PIE. 

Cot  a  chicken  into  small  members ;  cover  the  bottom 
^  a  pie-dish  with  small  thin  collops  of  veal  and  ham, 
placed  alternately ;  season  with  chopped  mushrooms,  sha- 
«rt,  and  pai'sley,  pepper  and  salt ;  tiien  add  a  little  white 
?*^ce,  stock,  or  water ;  next  place  the  pieces  of  chicken 
^  neat  order,  add  a  little  more  of  the  seasoning,  and 
^e  yolks  of  four  or  six  hard-boiled  eggs ;  mask  all  over 
^th  a  little  more  sauce,  cover  with  puff-paste,  egg  over, 
^^  ornament  the  top,  and  bake  the  pie  for  about  an 
"OUT  and  a  quarter. 

No.  496.— PIGEON  PIE  A  L'ANGLAISE. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish  with  small  collops  of 
rump-steak  previously  fried  brown  ,-  upon  this 
place  the  halves  of  four  pigeons,  also  fried;  season 
^th  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  shalot,  pepper 
and  salt ;  pour  half  a  pint  of  sauce,  or  gravy,  or  water, 
and  a  little  catsup  into  the  pan  the  meat  has  been  fried 
in,  to  detach  the  glaze,  and  pour  this  over  the  pigeons, 
&c.,  in  the  dish;  add  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs, 
or  some  plovers*  eggs  when  in  season  ;  cover  with  puff- 
paste  in  the  nsutd  way;  bake  the  pie  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  an  hour  and  a  quaiter. 


THB  OOOK^S  OCIDZ.    itS1> 


Xo.  497.— GBOUSE  FEB  A  L'EOOSfiASE. 

I^ck  "ind  draw  two  or  three  Tonng  grofoae;  col 
S  the  wisgs  and  legs ;  tncrk  the  drnmsticks  in  thrnfog^  a 
lit  made  under  the  thigh ;  singe  the  birds  over  a  ^bar- 
xtal  flame:  spHt  them  in  halves;  season  and  fiy  them 
with  a  hit  of  haner  until  half  done ;  and,  sinralta- 
neonsly  with  this  part  of  the  operati^'n.  prepare  also 
some  (^jl!ops  of  beef;  season,  ^.  and  place  them  at  tlia 
b>*tom  of  a  pie-dish ;  add  chopped  mnshrooms,  panleT 
and  ^halo:s,  and  a  tablespoonfiol  of  Crosse  and  Black- 
well's  <  Jade  sance :  place  the  fried  halves  of  gronse  in  neat 
'I'fder  on  this :  add  a  little  more  reasoning,  and  some 
hapi-l>./iled  rolks  of  eggs ;  moisten  with  suflBcient 
sauce,  gravy,  or  water,  and  a  little  salt,  to  reach  up  to 
the  fddes  of  the  pie-di:>h :  cover  with  puff-paate»  and 
bake  for  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Xo.  49a— PABTBIDGE  PIE  A  LA  CHASSEUB. 

Truss  loose,  singe,  and  divide  into  halves  three  joung 
partridges,  season  and  ^  them  wi:h  a  bit  of  butter; 
line  the  pie-di»h  with  thin  oollop^  of  veal,  and  half 
boiled   Vjacon ;   season  with  chopped  musdirooms,  m 
parsley,  pepper  and  sal' ;  pour  a  gill   of  onion  saw 
over  the  v^,  &c. :   then  place  neatly  the  halves 
partridges,  repeat  the  seasoning,  and  the  onion  sauc 
aid  S'jme  hani-l-jiled  yolks  of  eggs ;  ODver  with  pas 
bake  for  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  potir  i 
little  good  gravy  just  before  sending  to  table. 

Xo.  499.— GIBLET  PEE. 

Procure  two  .<^t«  of  goose  giblets  Tready  clear 
pr'S'jible  • ;  parboil  them  in  water  with  a  little  sa 
about  six  minutes,  and  then  wash  and  drain  th 
cool  on  a  sieve.     Xext,  place  the  giblets  in  a  s:< 
with  carroTs,  celery,  onion  stuck  with  six  cl  v* 
nished  bmquet  of  parsley,  th\Tne,  marjoram,  be 
spring-onions,  and   a   few  peppercorns  :    moi^t' 


iches,  livers  and  gizzards  smaller ;  place  these  in 
-dish  already  lined  with  seasoned  beef-coll  ops ; 
he  stock  from  the  giblets  make  some  sauce,  well 
and  freed  from  all  grease  and  impurities,  and 
down  to  a  proper  consistency ;  pour  it  to  the  pie ; 
ird  yolks  of  eggs ;  cover  with  paste  ;  bake  for  one 
md  a  quarter,  and  serve. 

No.  500.— BEEFSTEAK  AND  OYSTER  PIE. 

up  about  two  pounds  of  rum[psteak  in  coUops  the 
f  a  teacup ;  trim  away  unnecessary  fat  and  sinew 
at  waste ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  fry  them 
I  on  both  sides  with  a  little  better  than  an  ounce 
i;er ;  shake  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  add  two 

fresh-opened  oysters  and  their  liquor,  a  littlo 
3y,  and  chopped  onion ;  shake  round  gently  over 
re,  allowing  sAl  to  simmer  together  for  five  minutes ; 
5e  the  collo]ps  of  beef,  <fec.,  neatly  in  the  pie-dish; 
he  sauce  and  a  few  cooked  new  potatoes;  cover 
paste ;  bake  for  one  hour,  and  serve. 

No.  501.— VEAL  AND  HAM  PIE. 

t  up  a  pound  and  a  half  of  veal-cutlet  into  coUopN 
the  size  of  a  crown-piece;  and  prepare  also  in  the 


188  THv  COOK'S  arms,  ahd 

layers  in  the  pie-dish ;  place  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eg 
on  the  surface,  cover  with  puff-paste,  hake  for  an  ho 
and  a  quarter,  and  when  the  pie  is  done,  pour  in  a  litl 
gravy,  and  serve. 

No.  502.— MUTTON  PIE  A  L'IBLANDAIBE. 

Tiim  a  neck  of  mutton  as  if  it  was  intended  for  cutlet 
remove  the  superfluous  fat ;  separate  the  neck  part  in 
thick  cutlets  without  trimming  them  wastefhlly ;  divi 
the  short  ribs  and  scrag-end  into  equal-sized  pieces 
about  two  inches  square;  highly  season  these  wi 
pepper  and  salt,  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  enou| 
water  to  cover  the  meat,  and  set  it  to  stew  for  half  i 
hour  over  a  rather  slow  fire :  the  gravy  must  now 
strained  from  the  meat,  freed  from  grease,  poured  aga 
to  the  meat ;  add  thereto  six  onions  and  eight  potato^ 
put  the  lid  on  the  stewpan,  and  set  the  whole  to  stc 
gently  for  another  half  hour ;  at  the  expiration  of  H 
time,  arrange  the  cutlets,  &c.,  neatly  round  the  pie-disi 
lift  the  potatoes  and  onions  into  the  centre  witho 
smashing  them  ;  boil  down  the  gravy  to  the  quatity  i 
quired  to  fill  up  the  pie ;  sprinkle  a  couple  of  dozen 
oysters  over  the  surface ;  cover  the  pie  with  potato-past 
egg  it  over,  bake  it  for  an  hour,  and  serve  a  sauce-bo 
of  gravy  separately. 

Note. — The  potato-paste  here  alluded  to  is  made 
follows : — bake  a  dozen  large  potatoes,  and  when  don 
and  just  out  of  the  oven,  immediately  rub  their  pu 
through  a  clean  wire  sieve ;  put  this  into  a  stewpan  wi 
two  ounces  of  butter,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  nutmeg,  pepp 
and  salt ;  stir  the  paste  over  the  fire  until  it  ceases 
adhere  to  the  sides  of  the  stewpan,  and  then  roll  it  € 
on  the  slab  with  flour ; — and  remember  that :  inasmu 
as  this  kind  of  paste  possesses  but  little  elasticit 
it  must  be  handled  with  care,  and  when  rolled  o 
to  the  size  and  in  the  form  of  the  dish  which  has  to  1 
covered  with  it,  the  cover  should  be  divided  into  two  i 
four  parts  (according  to  the  size  of  the  pie^:  by  th 


housekeeper's  ai«d  butlsbs  assistant.         189 

contrivance,  it  will  be  more  easily  adjusted  on  the  top, 
by  eently  pressing  the  joints  together  with  the  flat  part 
of  the  thumb ;  parts  of  the  paste  should  be  used  to  de 
oorate  the  surface  of  the  pie  in  the  usual  way. 

Note. — This  paste  serves  also  for  potato  croquets. 

No.  508.— POTTED  SNIPES.  IRISH  FASfflON. 

The  snipes  shot  in  Ireland  are  the  finest  flavoured 
known,  and  are  or  were  prepared  in  a  very  simple 
yet  excellent  fashion,  whicn  renders  them  a  great  de- 
licacy for  the  breakfast-table.  In  order  to  enable  you  to 
indulge  in  this  delectable  bonne-bouche,  I  will  at  once 
furnish  you  with  the  necessary  instructions  to  solve  the 
mysteiy  and  gratify  your  longing. 

The  snipes  intended  to  be  used  for  this  purpose  must 
he  perfectly  fresh.  After  being  plucked,  their  legs  and 
wings  are  to  be  cut  off;  merely  remove  the  gizzaid 
with  the  point  of  a  knife,  leaving  all  the  inside  or  trail 
widisturbed;  the  snipes  should  be  split  in  halves,  and 
placed  on  a  dish.  Next,  take  what  is  called  an  earthen- 
ware oval  pie-pan,  suc}i  as  is  commonly  used  for  potting 
bleats,  (^c. ;  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  this  with  very 
^hin  layers  of  fat  bacon ;  arrange  therein  the  prejiared 
^iiipes  in  neat  rows;  season  between  each  row  with 
poarsely  ground  black  pepper  and  salt ;  and  when  the  pan 
IS  nearly  filled,  pour  in  sufficient  clarified  fresh  butter 
to  cover  the  surface  of  the  snipes  ;  put  the  lid  of  the  pan 
*^^;  lute  all  round  the  edge  of  the  pan  with  slack  flour- 
^nd-water  paste  to  confine  the  steam  which  arises  from 
the  bnipes,  &c.,  while  baking,  and  which,  by  being  thus 
prevented  from  escap  ng  entirely,  not  only  improves  the 
flavour  of  the  pie  by  condensation,  but  also  tends  to 
'lissolve  the  bones  sufficiently  to  render  them  edible : 
"iere  being  a  hole  on  the  top  of  the  lid,  it  acts  as  a 
safety-valve.  These  pies  must  be  baked  in  an  oven  of 
•Moderate  heat,  and  are  intended  to  be  eaten  when  quire 
coW  only. 


190  THE  COOK'S  GUIDE,  AND 

Note, — Woodcocks,  fioldfareH,  plovers,  yonng  pheu>iantB, 
partridges,  or  grouse,  larks,  wneatears,  and  especiallj 
ortolans  and  beoaficos,  are  most  excellent  when  dressed 
as  indicated  in  this  number. 

No.  504.— PIE  OF  SMALL  BIBDS. 

The  birds  best  calculated  to  suit  this  purpose  consist 
of  fieldfares,  blackbirds,  and  larks :  these  birds  are  only 
fit  for  table  during  the  months  of  November,  December, 
and  January  ;  and  are  in  the  greatest  perfection  daring 
frosty  weather.     The  birds  intended  for  this  pie  shonld 
be  stuffed  with  the  following  preparation:  vis.^— soak 
the  crumb  of  a  French   roll  in  a  little  milk ;  put  it 
in  a  stewpan  \vith  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  grated 
lemon-peol,    shalot,   chopped  parsley,  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt,  a  pinch  of  aromatic  herbs,  and  three  yolks 
of   eggs;    stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it   becomes  s 
compact  paste ;   and  use  it  to  fill  the  insides  of  the 
birds  intended  for  the  pie.     You  then  line  the  bottom 
of  a   pie-dish   with  fried  coUops  of  beef,  and  place 
thereon  the  birds  in  neat  order;  pour  some  fine-nerbe 
sauce  over  these;  add  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs;  cover 
with  puff-paste ;  bake  the  pie  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter 
and  serve. 

No.  505.-LAEK  PIE  A  LA  MELTON  MOWBRAY. 

Cut  about  one  pound  of  veal  into  small  col  lops,  and 
fry  them  with  an  equal  proportion  of  coll  ops  of  liam  or 
bacon,  and  place  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish :  then 
fry  two  dozen  larks  from  which  the  gizzard  only  has 
boon  removed,  by  picking  it  out  from  under  the  thigh 
with  the  point  of  a  knife ;  season  with  chopped 
parHley,  truillo,  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt,  some  monh- 
room  catsup,  button  mushrooms,  and  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour ;  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy  or  water, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  and  then  add  the  wbolA 
to  the  collops  of  veal,  he.,  contained  in  the  pie-diflh  : 
cover  with  puff-paste,  \  ike  for  an  hour  and  a  qoaiter- 
wid  servo. 


housekeeper's  and  butler's  assistant.         191 

No.  506.— BEEFSTEAK  AND  OYSTER  PUDDING. 

Line  the  pudding-basin  with  suet-paste,  which  has 
en  previously  rolled  out  to  the  thickness  of  about 
quarter  of  an  inch,  and  fill  the  pudding  with  beef 
llops  prepared  as  indicated  in  No.  600;  wet  round 
e  edge  of  the  paste  with  water ;  fasten  a  cover  of  the 
rae  paste  all  round,  by  pressing  equally  on  the  edges 
ith  the  forefinger  and  thumb ;  twist  the  edge  in  with  a 
«irl ;  make  a  small  hole  in  the  centre ;  steam  or  boil 
le  pudding  for  two  hours  and  a  half;  turn  it  out  of  the 
isin  with  care,  and  serve. 

No.  507.— MUTTON  PUDDING. 

Whether  collops  or  cutlets  of  mutton  are  used  fur 
bis  pui-pose,  they  must  be  fried  in  a  sautapan  with  an 
lunce  of  butter,  seasoned  with  chopped  mushrooms, 
»rsley,  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt ;  and  when  browned 
m  both  sides  without  being  done  through,  must  be 
sprinkled  over  with  a  large  spoonful  of  flour,  moistened 
with  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  or  water  with  mushroom 
catsup,  and  after  being  allowed  to  simmer  over  the  fire 
for  three  minutes,  are  to  be  placed  in  neat  order  in  the 
pudding-basin  already  lined  with  a  suet-crust ;  and  some 
thick  slices  of  potatoes  which  have  been  scarcely  half 
done,  are  to  be  placed  in  between  the  collops  of 
Dititton;  pour  the  sauce  over  all,  cover  in  with  suet- 
paste  as  in  No.  506,  steam  or  boil  for  two  hours  and  a 
half,  and  serve. 

No.  508.— KIDNEY  PUDDING. 

Cut  about  a  pound  and  a  half  of  ox-veal,  sheep,  or 
lamb  kidneys,  into  rather  thin  collops,  and  put  them  in 
*  hasin:  season  with  fineherbs  sauce,  No.  74,  and  a 
tteagert-spoonful  of  Crosse  and  Blackwell's  Oude  sauce ; 
Dan  together ; — and,  having  lined  a  pndding-basin  with 
JJiet-paste  in  the  usual  manner,  fill  it  with  the  prepared 
boneys,  cover  the  pudding  with  a  circular  piece  of 
P*8*e  fastened  all  round,  steam  or  boil  it  for  an  hour 
•nd  a  halt  and  serve. 


192  THE   cook's   OXnDB,   AND 


No.  509.— PUDDING  A  LA  CHIPOLATA. 

Either  fieldfares,  jacksnipes,  larks,  or  wheatears  may  I 
ased  for  this  purpose : — take  about  a  pound  of  any  oi 
kind  of  the  above-named  birds,  picked,  singed,  and  tl 
gizzards  removed,  and  fry  them  with  an  ounce  of  bntte 

Eepper  and  salt— merely  to  brown — without  scaroel 
alf -cooking  them ;  add  a  ready  prepared  chipolal 
ragout.  No.  123;  simmer  together  for  three  minutes,  an 
when  cold,  use  this  to  fill  a  ready-lined  basin ;  finish  i 
the  usual  way,  and  steam  the  pudding  for  an  hour  ut 
a  half. 

No.  510.— SNIPE  PUDDING  A  L'KPICUBIEN. 

Pluck,  singe,  and  divide  six  fresh  snipes  in  halves 
remove  the  gizzards,  and  reserve  the  trail  for  use  hen 
after  ;  season  the  snipes  with  cayenne  and  lemon-jnioc 
and  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  set  them  aside  until  wantec 
Next,  slice  up  a  Portugal  onion,  and  fry  it  with  a  bit  ( 
butter  of  a  light  colour ;  throw  in  a  good  tablespoonfi 
of  flour,  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  a  suspicion  ( 
garlic  on  the  point  of  a  knife,  grated  nutmeg,  and 
pincfi  of  aromatic  herbs.  No.  671 ;  moisten  with  half 
pint  of  wine ;  stir  the  whole  over  the  fire  to  boil  fc 
about  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  trail,  and  rub  th: 
through  a  tammy ;  meanwhile,  a  pudding-basin  shool 
be  lined  with  a  thin  crust  of  suet-paste,  3ie  snipes  as 
sauce,  and  also  some  scollops  of  truffles  arranged  neat] 
therein ;  cover  in  with  paste ;  steam  for  an  hour  and 
half;  turn  it  out  with  care,  and  serve. 

No.  511.— SAUSAGE  PUDDING. 

Procure  a  pound  of  Cambridge  sausages,  and  twi 
each  into  three  balls;  put  these  into  boiling  water 
merely  to  scald  them  sufficiently  so  as  to  remove  £ 
skin.  Line  a  pudding-basin  with  suet-paste,  fill  it  wi 
the  sausages,  and  pour  the  following  preparation  o^ 
them:  via., — chop  an  onion  and  two  sage-leaves,  t 


HomsxKsnaR's  amd  butlib'b  assistaht.        198 

Ty  them  wiih  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  add  a 
lessert^poonfdl  of  flour  and  an  equal  proportion  of 
/TOflse  and  Blackwell's  Oude  sauce,  and  a  little  salt, 
tir  it  over  the  Are  until  it  boils ;  and  having  poured  it 
utile 'sausages,  cover  the  pudding  with  paste  in  the 
ml  way ;  steam  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve. 


No.  512.— YORKSHIBB  VEAL  CAKK 

Prepare  the  following  ingredients:  viz., — about  a 
mud  and  a  half  of  veal  coUops,  three-quarters  of  a 
)imd  of  thin  slices  of  ham,  or  of  streaky  bacon  (pre- 
oosly  parboiled  for  ten  minutes  to  remove  its  saltness), 
or  ^gs  boiled  hard.  Some  aspic  jelly.  No.  7,  must 
lYe  been  prepared  with  a  pound  of  knuckle  of  veal,  the 
immings  from  the  collops,  and  a  calf's  foot  or  cow- 
id;  or,  failing  these,  four  ounces  of  gelatine  may  be 
led  instead.     Next  take  an  earthen  pie-pan — such  as 

commonly  used  for  potting  meats,  &c. ;  spread  or 
m  a  layer  of  the  aspic  jelly  at  the  bottom,  of  about 
e  sixteenth   of  an  inch  deep,  and  upon  this  place 

neat  circles  a  layer  of  veal  collops;  season  with 
ipper  and  salt,  chopped  parsley  and  shalot,  then  put  a 
jer  of  ham,  and  upon  this  a  layer  of  hard  eggs  cut  in 
at  slices;  repeat  the  seasoning  and  aspic  jelly,  and 

on,  until  the  whole  of  the  ingredients  are  used  up. 
)ver  the  pie-pan  or  basin  with  stiff  flour-and-water 
ste ;  bake  it  on  a  baking-sheet  containing  a  little  water 
prevent  the  possibility  of  the  aspic  jelly  contained  iu 
B  cake  from  being  dried  up  (an  accident  which 
ght  occur  if  the  oven  happen  to  be  too  hot).  Bake 
)  pie  or  cake  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter  in  moderate 
it,  and  when  done,  set  it  in  a  cold  place  until  the  next 
7;  it  may  then  be  turned  out  whole  on  a  dish,  gar- 
bed with  fresh  parsley,  and  served  for  breakfa&t  or 
cheon. 


194  THIS    OOOK*8   6UIDK,   AND 

No.  513.— TOBESHIBE  HABE  CAKK. 

Bemove  all  the  flesh  from  a  hare  in  as  large 
as  possible, — that  is,  take  out  the  fillets,  remc 
shoulders  and  hind  quarters,  and  bone  them;  cut 
meat  into  collops  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thi( 
set  them  aside  on  a  plate :  with  the  carcass  and 
mings,  and  a  cow-heel  or  calfs-foot,  make  some 
seasoned  aspic  jelly,  Na  7;  prepare  also  som 
slices  of  ham  and  hard  eggs,  seasoning,  <fec.,  as  inc 
for  veal  cake,  using  for  game  cakes  the  addition  ( 
matic  seasoning,  'So.  671.  In  all  respects  prepa 
finish  the  hare  cake  as  directed  in  No.  512. 

Note. — ^These  cakes  are  excellent,  and  inexp 
in  their  preparation,  and  may  be  varied  by  usmg 
beef,  mutton,  venison,  poultry,  or  any  kind  of  ga 
their  composition,  instead  of  veal  or  hare. 

No.  514— FISH  PIE  A  LA  STE.  TEBESA. 

For  this  purpose  it  is  necessary  to  prepare  some 
meat  of  whiting  or  haddock,  No.  186.  Line  a 
oblong  tin  mould  with  short-paste,  No.  756 ;  spi 
layer  of  force  meat  at  the  bottom,  about  an  inch  1 
cover  this  with  a  slice  of  salmon  and  fillets  of  anch* 
season  with  chopped  parsley  and  spring-onions, 
little  pepper  and  salt ;  repeat  the  forcemeat,  salmo 
seasoning  until  the  pie  is  filled ;  it  must  then  be  C€ 
with  paste,  ornamented,  egged  over,  and  baked  for 
an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  acco 
to  its  size  and  contents.  Any  of  the  following  i 
may  be  served  separately  in  a  sauce-boat: — ie 
dlidtel,  Italian,  ravigotte,  B6chamel,  Allemande,  oi 
mande. 

No.  515.— FISH  PIE  A  LA  STE.  UBSULA. 

Salmon,  trout,  codfish,  turbot,  brill,  haddocks,  i 
erel,  &c., — and  indeed  any  kind  of  fish  tolc 
fiee  from  small  bones,  are  adapted  to  this   pni 


B0U8SKIKP1BK  8   AMD   BUTLEB'S  ASSISTANT.  196 

Whichever  fiuh  is  intended  for  the  pie  should  be  freed 
from  skin  and  bone,  and  cut  into  large  scollops.  A 
moald  should  be  lined  with  Brioche  paste,  No.  737,  a  thin 
layer  of  Bechamel  sauce,  No.  16,  spread  over  the  bottom, 
^  over  this  place  a  close  layer  of  scollops  of  fish ;  sea- 
son with  chopped  mushrooms^  parsley  ana  shalot,  fillets 
of  anchovies,  capers,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs;  repeat  the  sauce,  fish,  &c.,  until  the 
pie  is  filled  up ;  cover  it  in  the  usual  manner ;  bake  it  for 
about  an  hour  and  a  ha^,  and  serve.  From  two  to  three 
potmds  of  fish  is  the  quantity  supposed  to  be  used  in 
reference  to  the  foregoing  instructions. 

No.  51 6. -POTATO  PIE. 

Slice  up  three  onions  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
four  ounces  of  butter,  and  a  dozen  potatoes ;  add  a  quart 
of  water,  pepper  and  salt ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  sot  the 
whole  to  stew  on  a  rather  orisk  fire  for  about  half  an 
hoTir;  by  this  time  the  potatoes  will  be  done,  and  the 
water  sufficiently  reduced  to  furnish  only  enough  for  the 
pie;  this  stew  must  be  piled  up  in  an  earthen  pio-dish, 
oovered  with  a  potato  crust  as  directed  in  No.  502,  baked 
for  about  half  an  hour,  and  served. 

Note. — Any  kind  of  fish,  or  shell-fish,  may  be  added  : 
but  when  fish  is  used  for  a  potato  pie,  it  should  bo  freed 
from  bone  and  skin,  and  simmered  with  a  little  butter, 
popper  and  salt,  and  when  done,  placed  in  neat  rows  od 
the  top  of  the  potato  stew  previously  to  the  pie  being 
coTered  in.  In  this  case  the  pie  will  require  an  extra 
^luarter  of  an  hour's  baking. 

No.  617— LEEK  FLAMm&II. 

Cut  up  a  dozen  leeks  (previously  washed  clean  and 
free  from  grit)  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long ;  place  these 
J"^  a  basin  with  half  a  pint  of  good  thick  cream,  season 
J^  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  all  well  together, 
"^parea  pound  of  short  paste*  No.  756 ;  divide  it  into 

o  2 


196  THE  cook's  GOIDK.  Am 

foor  equal  partB,  mould  »e  into  Inlls,  n^diem 
the  size  and  shape  of  pm  ing-platea,  andjplaoe  th 
a  haking-dish  or  tin ;  wi  a  paste-faroah  dmped  in 
wet  all  round  the  edg  of  tiie  paste,  fill  the  oei 
each  flat  with  enon^  oi  the  prepared  leeks  to  i 
flammish — when,  hy  gathering  np  the  sides  of  the 
each  flat  assomes  the  form  of  a  puckered  pane 
most  be  secored  by  &stening  the  phdts  togiraier 
wetted  small  circnlar  piece  of  paste  gentlj  prosiac 
their  centre.    £ake  for  half  an  hour. 


lODSBEnPIU'll  ASP  suiubb'b  ahbibtaxt.  197 


CHAPTER  XII. 


Ifo.  Sia— VOIrAU-VENT  \  LA  BTNANCaERE. 


For  this  pnrpoHs  one  ponnd  of  pnEF-pBBte  will  be  re- 
luired;  ana,  when  mining  it,  the  juice  of  a  whole  lemon 
""Mt  be  added.  The  paste,  see  No.  323,  must  be  kept 
perfectly  gqnare  at  tie  ends,  and  folded  with  great 
^^tneae,  in  order  to  inaure  the  Tol-au-vent  rieing 
•Wjjht  Bnd  eveid;  all  lonnd,  which  cannot  he  oxpeoted 


198  THK  OOOKS  GUIDE,  AMP 

if  the  puff-paste  is  rolled  nneveiilj;  five  tn 
half  most  be  given  to  the  paste,  allowing  fiv< 
to  intervene  between  each  turn— observing 
vionsly  to  folding  np  the  last  torn  Mid  a  half; 
mnst  be  brnshed  over  with  lemon-jnice.  Atten 
be  paid  while  giving  the  last  torn  and  a  hal 
the  form  of  it  to  the  size  of  the  intended  to 
in  order  to  give  it  all  the  thickness  it  reqnirei 
two  ounces  of  common  paste,  after  being  roll 
the  size  of  a  plate,  should  be  stuck  on  the  npp 
of  the  paste,  turned  upside  down  on  a  wette 
sheet,  and  set  on  the  ice  for  five  minutes ;  a 
expiration  of  this  time,  for  the  purpose  of  gn 
hsuid,  a  stewpan  lid,  or  any  other  circular  fii 
be  placed  on  the  paste,  and  then  with  a  shai 
knife  proceed  to  cut  all  round  the  extreme  e^ 
lid  of  the  stewpan,  causing  the  point  of  the 
bear  under  the  Hd  to  the  extent  of  the  sixtee 
inch.  AVhen  the  vol-au-vent  is  cut  out,  eg| 
without  touching  the  sides,  and  wiih  the  p 
knife,  the  point  held  on  a  slant  inwardly  tov 
centre,  make  a  slanting  circular  incision  withi 
of  the  edge,  and  with  the  point  of  a  knife  press 
diisk  away  from  the  incision  to  prevent  them  fro 
up  again.  The  vol-au-vent  should  now  be  p 
oven  (not  too  hot,  as  excess  of  heat,  by  too  pre 
colouring  the  edges,  prevents  it  from  rising) ;  j 
it  begins  to  rise,  let  a  trivet  be  quickly  slipped 
and  the  oven  be  closed.  When  the  vol-au- 
risen  about  two  inches,  and  before  it  has  acq 
colour,  protect  it  from  too  much  heat,  by  pL 
hoop  of  an  old  sieve  round  it,  and  a  piece  of  p 
it ;  and  allow  it  to  remain  in  the  oven  until  d 
will  take  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  it  i 
be  removed,  and  the  greasy  centre  carefully  t 
without  damaging  the  case. 

AVhen  about  to  send  to  table,  make  the  case  I 
it  on  its  dish ;  garnish  with  a  Financiere  ragout 


♦ 


kktbekimfxb'i  Aim  BtrrtKit'e  iaemuFi.        199 

top  may  be  finialied  by  plaoing  a  larded  eweetbrea<l 
nnded  by  decorated  quenelles,  or  truffles  and  oray- 
u  represented  in  the  woodcut ;  or  the  Tol-au-vent 
be  MTved  in  a  plainer  style. 

Ha  519,— PATE  CHAUD  OF  PIOBONS. 


:e  one  and  a  half  pound  of  pacte,  No.  766;  take 
irds  of  this ;  moald  it  into  a  ball ;  roll  it  out  to 
»  and  form  of  a  dinner-plate ;  and  with  the  bent 
les  of  the  right  hand,  indent  the  centre  part  to 
tent  of  four  inches  in  diameter,  and  with  the 
I  of  both  hands  raise  the  sides  of  the  paste  up  in 
e-like  form,  giving  the  wall  consiatenoy  by  press- 
e  sides  of  the  paste  together  compncuy,  and  by 
3g  the  paste  in  this  manner,  raise  the  wall  to  the 
.  of  about  eight  inches ;  place  this  shell  on  a 
ed  baking-sheet  upon  buttered  paper  ;  with  the 
'  press  out  the  base  slantingly ;  fill  the  inside  with 
it  bran ;  wet  round  the  inner  edge  ;  fasten  on 
nlar  piece  of  the  same  paste,  press  it  all  round 
ly,  out  the  edge  evenly,  pinch  it  deooratively 
nstry-pinoen  (see  Adams'  Illustrations);   egg  it 


900 


ra*  onoKH  sins^  amd 


oner ;  deoonte  it  as  shoim  in  tbe  woodcut ;  bake 
about  duee-qnarterB  of  an  hoDTiOf  ali^it  oolmr. 
loos,  make  aa  incisioa  all  romd  tbe  inner  e 
the  npper  part,  remote  the  lid  and  the  bran; 
the  i^de  clean,  and  reserve  the  pie-shell  fo 
When  about  to  send  the  J&ti  cbaud  to  table,  ni 
hot ;  garnish  with  very  yotmg  pigeons  which  hav 
preTioosly  boned,  foiMd,  and  bnized  for  the  pn 
add  tmSes,  button  mnshnximB,  and  oocks'comba  an 
la  represented  in  the  woodant;  poar  some  pc 
aance.  No.  19,  cror  all,  and  wem. 

NoL  520.— TDCBALE  OF  MACABONL 


A  timbale  ease  or  shell  is  thus  made :  via., — t 
pound  of  short-paste,  No.756,ai)dtwoonncea  of  n 
paste.  No.  759.  Bntter  slightly  and  smootti 
inside  of  a  plain  round  or  oval  moidd;  roll  oi 
nonilles  paste  as  thin  as  paper,  and  with  &n 
cntten  Btamp  ont  leaves,  lozengee,  crescents.  rin( 
with  which  to  form  ornamental  designs,  which 
be  arranged  and  etnok  on  the  bottom  and  sides 
interior  of  the  mould,  as  shown  in  the  woodcnt 
len  to  be  carefully  moistened  hf  ap 


BomiKXKPXB'a  ADD   SUTLER'S  ABB1STAS1.  201 

Ik  tip  of  ft  brush  dipped  in  water  to  it,  and  is  after- 
wudg  to  be  lined  tIm>nghout  with  some  of  the  short- 
puts  loDed  ont  for  the  purpose,  leaving  the  paste  riGiog 
u  inch  above  the  edge  of  the  monld.  Fill  the  inoido 
*itli  bran,  or  with  flour  mixed  with  two  ounces  of 
chopped  eaet;  wet  tbs  edge,  place  a  circular  piece  of 
mUea-ont' paste  on  the  timbale;  press  both  edges  to- 
gsttisr  with  Gnger  and  thumb ;  twiet  the  upper  ridge  of 
pule  inwardly  with  a  twirl  of  the  fingers  ajid  thumb ; 
loiie  a  small  holo  in  the  centre  for  ventilation ;  bake 
ihe  timbale  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and 
•hen  done,  empty  it  with  care ;  brush  it  ont  clean,  and 
£11  it  with  a  Mi^ese  ragout,  No.  1 26 ;  turn  it  out  on 
ittdiah,  glaze  it  over  with  thin  light  coloured  glaze; 
p>iirs(Hne  whit«  sance  i^und  the  base,  and  iterve. 

Ko.  521.— BOEDER  OF  BICE  A  LA  liVlKE. 


^ash  thorou^y  and  drain  a  pound  of  Carolina  rice, 
•ri  pnt  it  in  a  stewpan  with  nearly  three*pints  of  water, 
**<>  onnces  of  bntter,  and  a  little  salt ;  put  the  lid  on, 
Wa  Get  the  rice  to  einimer  very  slowly  on  a  smothered 
'^  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half;  by  which  time,  if 
t^rly  attended  to,  the  rice  will  have  absorbed  the 


202  THK  OOOBB  OVIDK,  AMD 

whole  of  the  moisture,  and  will  have  become  p 
Eoft  when  a  grain  is  pressed  between  the  fioi 
thnmb :  the  nee  must  now  be  handled  with  t] 
part  of  the  bowl  of  a  large  wooden  spoon,  and 
means  worked  into  a  smooth  compact  paste  ;  a 
dipping  jonr  washed  hands  in  cold  water,  it  i 
tolled  in  a  ball,  gently  pressed  on  a  buttered  bakin 
and  finally  shaped,  bj  nsing  a  thick  chisel-shape 
or  tool  (made  with  raw  carrot),  often  dipped  i 
to  prevent  its  sticking  in  the  rice;  the  bordt 
finished,  should  resemble  the  woodcnt.  About 
before  dinner-time  the  border  of  rice  ehoold  b 
in  a  brisk  oven,  of  a  light-golden  cotonr.  AVht 
and  when  the  rice  from  its  centre  is  removed  ne 
smoothly,  it  may  be  filled  eitheywith  pnr^  or  i 
fowl  or  of  game,  and  finished  by  placing  a  b 
soft-boiled  e^s,  or  plovers'  e^s,  round  the  edg 
small  decorated  fillet  in  between  each  ^^,  as  rep 
in  the  woodcut.  Four  a  little  white  sauce  c 
puree,  and  round  the  base,  and  aerre. 

No.  522.— MAZABIN'E  OF  SALMON. 


JIuke  about  a  pound  and  a  half  of  salmon  in 
meat.  Jio.  186,  using  le^  panada,  and  making 


BOUSEEEBFKBB  AND  BUTLKTl  S  ASBISTAKT.  208 

DDV  witL  a  gill  of  stiff  Allem&ude  eauoe.  No.  IT. 
ly  iratter  the  inside  of  a  very  clean  qiutrt«ize  jelly 
,  and  fill  it  carefully  'with  tlie  ealmon  forcemeat ; 
1  the  top  over  with  a  knife  dipped  in  hot  water, 
lont  an  noar  and  a  half  before  dinner-time,  set  thu 
me  to  steam  as  you  would  a  pudding ;  and  when 
torn  it  out  on  its  dish;  garnish  with  picked 
a,  decorated  quenelles,  button  mushrooms,  &c.,  or, 
MUjmy  sake,  when  turned  ont,  it  may  bo  sauced 
^srdiuat  ragout  only.  No.  62. 

No.  52!t.— CHABT&EIffiB  OF  P^BTBIDOES. 


four  i-ed  carrots,  as  many  turnips,  these  notover- 
and  have  also  ready  some  plain-boiled  passed" 
ry-pressed  spinach :    line  a  plain  round,  or  oval 

with  buttered  paper ;  cut  out  the  carrots,  tur- 
and  the  pressed  spinach  in  appropriate  fancy 
ental  shapes,  calouUted  when  put  together  to 
he  intended  design  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the 
I  aa  represented  in  the  woodcut.     Fit  in  a  wall 


ic  biXyZi 


Take  a  ft|aar«-«h*ped  sale  qoarteiu-loaf.  and  w*  a 
tfaarp  knile  to  c»m  it  in  the  shape  of  the  craiaJn  n- 
piveeiagti  in  the  annexed  wtiodcnt ;  and  wken  fii]iihti4 
stick  a  folk  in  the  centre  of  it,  and  plnn^  it  gMt^T 
andtntireiyiii  sotoe  verrbot  laid,and  fry  it  of  ahn^ 
fown  colour :  slick  it  on  ibe  c«nti«  of  ita  di^  witfe  ■ 
little  iriiite  of  &^  and  Soar  mixed  into  a  paste,  and  ^ 
it  aside  until  diiii>er-tint&  Bone  ei^itcen  laika.  mi 
Muff  each  with  a  little  forcemeat  and  a  ^nall  uaffla.  n* 
oS  the  legs,  and  give  them  the  farm  of  roand-balk: 
jlace  them  in  rom  with  clariGad  bstter  ii 


HODSKKEKPIB  B  ABD  BOTLSB  B  ABBISTANt.  2tiS 

■^■■oii  vitli  pepper  and  salt,  cover  them  with  a  oiroatur 
piNeirfbiitterea  paper,  and  pnsli  them  in  a  rather  hot 
ona  for  a  qoartor  of  an  hour,  which  will  suffice  to  cook 
''■Bm.  Vaeat  aboat  to  send  to  table,  moke  the  cr6ustade 
faot  b^  placing  it  for  five  minnteB  in  the  oreu,  drain  the 
pt'Bpa^  larks,  and  pile  them  neatly  in  the  emptied 
<ir6iutade;  garnish  with  button  muahrooma  and  cray- 
fi^;  pour  Bome  p^rigueus  sauce  over  and  round  it,  and 
serre. 

Nm. — Any  smaU  birds  prepared  as  indicated  above 
Mf  be  nsed  for  the  purpose,  and  the  garnish  may  be 
TOried  with  quenelles,  cooks'  combs,  olives,  Ac. 

Na  625.— TOUBTE  OF  GODIVEAU. 


Make  a  tourte  shell  or  crust  in  manner  following. 
'11.,— first,  make  half  a  pound  of  puff-paste,  and  give  it 
I  lour  turns  in  the  usual  manner ;  make  also  half  a  pound 
Mshort-paate  ;  take  half  of  this;  knead  it  into  a  round 
•"ll ;  roU  it  to  the  siae  of  a  dinner-plate ;  put  it  on  a 
™Jiiid  baking-sheet,  and  place  a  tampion  of  soft  paper 
relied  in  the  form  of  a  bnn  in  the  centre.  The  puH- 
pwte  must  then  be  rolled  out  to  the  length  of  twenty 
jnches,  lightly  wetted  over  with  a  paste-brush  clipped 
in  water,  and  folded  lengthwise  in  three;  thia  must  be 
fiJIed  again  in  its  width,  just  sufficient  to  make  it  about 
loat  indies  wide ;  the  paste  being  again  wetted,  must 
DOW  ha  again  folded  in  three  as  before  ;  by  this  time,  it 


806  THx  oook's  emokf  An> 

flhonld  ti»im  a  band  measiirii^  twenty  inches  long*  m 
two  inches  wide,  and  half  an  inch  thick.  The  edg^ 
the  band  of  paste  mast  now  be  pared  away,  witha  snia 
sharp  knife  held  perpendicularly  in  the  ri^t  bac 
whilst  the  paste  must  be  slightly  pressed  on  the  si 
with  the  fore  part  of  the  fingers.  Next,  add  the  tra 
mings  of  the  puff-paste  to  the  remaining  half  of  thesha 
paste ;  knead  both  together;  roll  this  ont  to  the  size  c 
dinner-plate,  and,  after  having  first  wetted  round  i 
edge  of  the  foundation,  place  it  over  the  tampion  a 
press  it  down  all  round  with  the  thumb ;  wet  the  ed 
of  the  tourte  round  again,  and  apply  the  band  in  t 
following  manner :  viz., — ^take  hold  of  the  band  at  bo 
ends,  and  begin  by  festening  that  held  in  the  right  hu 
round  the  tourte,  and  continue  fixing  the  band  all  rom 
the  edge  as  fast  as  it  is  dropped  in  its  place  fixm  tl 
left  hand ;  press  the  first  end  down  so  as  to  thin  it ;  w< 
this  part  with  the  brush,  and  after  paring  away  a  litd 
from  the  other  end,  so  as  to  thin  that  also,  fasbea  bot 
together  so  as  to  join  them.  Press  the  band  down  a 
round  with  the  thumb,  and  flute  it  round  the  edge  l 
ja^ng  it  slightly  with  the  back  of  a  knife. 

Ihe  tourte  must  now  be  egged  over  with  a  past 
brush,  so  as  to  carefully  avoid  smearing  the  edges 
the  band.  Place  it  in  a  moderately-heated  oven^ai 
bake  it  of  a  light  colour;  and  when  done,  withdraw  i 
make  an  incision  all  round  the  inside  of  the  band ;  1 
off  the  cover ;  vemove  the  tampion  of  paper ;  place  t 
tourte  on  its  dish ;  garnish  with  a  ragoiit  composed 
brains,  sweetbread,  quenelles  of  godiveau,  mushrocti 
and  truffles,  and  crayfish  on  the  top ;  sauce  with  poiv:  u 
or  Finauciere,  and  serve. 


aoUSSKSEPSB'S  AND   BUTLEK'S   ASSISTANT.  20? 


CHAPTER  XI II. 

PLAIN  ENTBEE8  OB  SIDE  DISHES  FOE  EVEEY-DAY 

FARE. 


No.  526,— HASHED  BEEF. 

CpT,  slice,  or  shave  the  beef  in  small  thin  collops  or 
sKoes,  and  put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  a  dessert- 
^poonftil  of  flour,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  shake  all 
together;  add  a  small  wineglassful  of  mushroom  catsup 
8ad  half  a  gill  of  gravy  or  water ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  a 
kw  minutes  until  quite  hot,  and  dish  up  with  sippets  of 
A7  toast  round  the  hash. 

No.  527.-HASHED  BEEP  ANOTHER  WAY. 

Chop  an  onion  fine,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
ineglassful  of  vinegar  and  an  equal  quantity  of  catsup ; 
?t  this  on  the  fire  to  boil  down  to  half  the  original 
lantity ;  then  add  a  gill  of  good  stock,  aiid  the  prepared 
jef,  floured  and  seasoned  as  in  the  preceding  case ;  boil 
gether  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

[o.  528.-HASHED  BEEF  WITH  PICKLED  WALNUTS. 

Prepare  the  hashed  beef  as  demonstrated  in  either  of 
9  preceding  cases,  and  when  dished  up,  garnish  it  with 
ew  whole  pickled  walnuts,  carefully  warmed  without 
aising  them,  in  some  of  their  own  catsup.  A  little 
tde  sauce  imparts  an  appetising  relish  to  all  kinds  of 
i^ea 


208  THB  GOOK*S  GUXDB,  AJW 

No.  629— MINOED  BEEF. 

Cut  the  beef  from  the  bones ;  break  them 
cleaver  (see  Adams'  Ulustrations)  ;  put  them 
pan  with  onion,  carrot,  thyme,  and  two  cloves 
with  a  quart  of  water,  and  boil  gently'  mitil  ] 
less  than  half ;  and  when  done,  strain,  remove  : 
and  make  this  into  rather  less  than  half  a  pi 
sauce.  Chop  the  beef  fine ;  put  it  with  the  s 
stewpan,  add  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  a  '^ 
nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Harvey ;  stir 
fire  until  quite  hot,  and  serve  with  poached  ej 
round  the  mince. 

No.  530.— GRILLED  BONES. 

Blade-bones  from  shoulders  of  mutton  or 
generally  preferred  as  a  relish  of  this  kin( 
course,  any  other  bones  with  some  meat  on 
serve  the  purpose  in  a  case  of  emergency, 
meat  on  the  bones  twice  crosswise ;  season  ] 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  grill  them  crisp  withov 
them,  and  serve  with  hot  mushroom  or  walnul 

Note. — Grilled  bones  are  sometimes  served 
companiment  with  hashed  beef  or  mutton. 

No.  531.— DEVILLED  BONES. 

Score  the  bones,  saturate  them  with  Devil' 
No.  1 28,  grill  them  crisp,  and  serve  dry. 

No.  532.— BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. 

This  is  a  favourite  dish  with  some  peop 
available  when  it  happens  that  you  have  had  I 
the  day  before;   it  is   certainly  .preferable 
dinner. 

Cut  the  beef  and  its  fat  in  slices  about  the  s 
inch  in  thickness,  and  fry  them  quickly  ovc 
fire,  just  enough  to  warm  the  meat  througl 
drying  it,  and  dish  it  up  round  some  choppei 


BOUDEliKJ&i'fin  S   AMD   BUTLSB's   ASSISTANT.  209 

c^^}  J^i^essed  cabbage,   carrots,  and  parsnips,   seasoned 
Nviw  pepper  and  salt,  and  fried  with  butter.    No  sauce. 
^^« — It  is  usual  when  people  are  fond  of  bubble-and- 

*«\^^k  to  boil  sufficient  vegetables  with  the  beef  for 

a  aiah  of  hubble-and-squeak  the  next  day. 


No.  533.— RUMP-STEAK,  PLAIN.  &c. 

A.  rump-steak,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection,  should  be  cut 
froni  rich-grained  well-kept  beef — that  is,  having  been 
ffled  some  ten  days,  weather  permitting ;  the  steak 
sJiould  be  an  inch  thick :  it  must  not  be  flattened  nor 
i^ten.  This  custom,  too  common  with  cooks  and 
butchers,  is  a  vain  attempt  to  make  tough  meat  tender 
V  hmising  the  fibres  of  the  flesh.  Prepare  ready 
fissures  for  all  the  juices  of  the  meat  to  run  out,  either 
before  or  while  it  is  being  cooked. 

A  steak  should  not  be  cut  from  the  rump  any  length 
of  time  before  it  is  required  to  be  cooked,  as  in  dry 
Weather  the  current  of  air  absorbs  its  moisture,  while 
the  effect  of  a  milder  atmosphere  occasions  all  the  gravy 
to  exude. 

Thus,  under  the  supposition  that  you  are  fortunate 
enough  to  command  a  tender  steak,  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  broil  it  on  a  clean  gridiron  over  a 
clear  fire,  carefully  turning  it  every  two  minutes  until 
it  is  done,  —that  is,  well  done  or  underdone,  according 
to  taste.  Put  it  on  its  dish,  upon  a  pat  of  fresh  butter, 
place  another  pat  upon  it;  and  the  addition  of  half  a 
^emon  squeezed  over  it,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  Hearvey, 
^ill  compel  you  to  admit,  that  even  at  that  celebrated 
elub  to  which,  under  the  infliction  of  bad  cookery  at 
home,  you  are  so  very  often  driven  to  resort  for  better 
fere,  you  could  not  have  hoped  for  anything  mort) 
perfect. 

Note, — Steaks  may  be  varied  by  serving,  as  a  garnish 
Or  accompaniment,  fried  onions,  fried  potatoes,  onion,  or 
Mushroom,  or  oyster  sauce,  separately. 


iSlO  THIl  OOO&S   OCriDE,   Alio 

No.  534.— OX-KIDNEY  GRILLED. 

Cut  the  kidney  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  t' 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  on  both  sides ;  place 
on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and  broil  them 
done  on  both  sides  :  they  must  then  be  dished  up 
hot  dish,  with  maitre-d'hotel  butter,  No.  127,  i 
I  hem,  and  served  immediately. 

No.  535.— STEWED  OX-KIDNEY. 

Cut  the  kidney  in  thin  slices,  and  fry  them 
butter  in  a  sautapan  over  a  quick  fire,   season 
chopped  mushrocjms,   parsley  and  shalot,   pepper 
salt;  shake  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  add  a 
Harvey  isauce,  lemon-juice,  and  a  gill  of  stock  or  w 
stir  over  the  fire  imtil  the  whole  has  simmered  tog 
for  five  minutes,  and  dish  up  with  sippets  of  dry 
all  round  the  dish. 

No.  536.— BEEF  COLLOPS. 

Cut  a  steak  or  some  fillet  of  beef  into  thin  i 
measuring  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  fry 
with  butter  in  a  sautapan  until  done  on  both  s 
shake  in  a  little  flour,  add  a  dozen  oysters  and  a 
Harvey  sauce,  lemon-juice,  pepper,  and  a  teaspoon 
anchovy;  simmer  over  the  fiie  until  the  oyster 
done,  and  then  dish  up. 

Note. — Mushrooms,  truffles,  olives,  or  gherkins 
be  used  instead  of  oysters  ;  a  little  sherry  may  be  « 
in  any  of  these  cases. 

No.  537.— ROLLED  BEEF  COLLOPS. 

Chop  some  mushrooms,  parsley  and  shalots ;  fry 
with  an  ounce  of  butter ;  season  with  nutmeg,  p< 
and  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  add  two  yolks  of  eggs 
over  the  fire  until  the  fine-herbs  are  thickened,  and 
divide  this  composition  among  the  prepared  thin  cc 
of  beef,  and  roll  them  up  in  the  form  of  small  boL 


H0U6SKSEPEB*S   AND   BUTLKB's   AS8ISTAMT.  211 

ethem  in  a  sautapan  in  some  clan  fied  butter  j  set 
1  b  the  oven  for  ten  minute« ;  and  when  done,  drain 
dish  them  np  neatly ;   pour  some  brown  oyster 
e,  No.  44,  over  them,  and  serve. 

No.  538.— BEEF  AU  GRATIN. 

lis  dish  is  most  appropriately  served  as  part  of  a 
ious  system  of  economy,  when  it  bappens  that  some 
ins  of  a  joint  of  braized  or  roast-beef  are  left  from 
vious  day's  dinner ;  in  which  case,  the  beef  should 
t  into  thin  neat  slices,  and  immediately  dished  up 
fc-wise,  one  overlapping  the  other  (the  same  dish  in 
1  they  are  intended  to  be  sent  to  tabJe  should  be 
for  the  purpose) ;  season  with  chopped  parsley  and 
t,  pepper  and  salt;  moisten  all  over  with  a  gill  of 
gravy,  or  water  mixed  with  Harvey  or  catsup; 
some  brown  raspings  over  the  surface  of  the  beef  ; 
kle  a  little  dissolved  butter  over  this ;  push  in  the 
ven  for  ten  minutes,  and  when  the  whole  has  be- 
quite  hot,  send  to  table. 

No.  539.— MIRONTON  OF  BEEF. 

mains  of  beef  from  a  previous  day's  dinner  are  also 
►priate  for  the  economical  preparation  of  this  must 
lent  thou«;h  unpretending  dish.  Cut  six  onions  in 
slices,  and  fry  them  in  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces 
itter,  over  a  slow  fire  until  browned ;  then  add  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  moisten  with  nearly  a  pint  of 
gravy,  or  water  and  catsup,  season  with  pepper 
lalt,  stir  over  the  fire  to  boil  for  ten  minutes,  and 
pour  this  over  the  slices  of  beef  already  dished  up 
dish  that  will  bear  the  heat  of  the  oven  without 
ing ;  strew  some  raspings  of  bread  over  the  surface, 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve  while  hot. 
spofmful  of  Crosse  and  Blackwell's  Oude  sauce 
I  be  an  improvement  in  the  composition  of  this 
isintc  entree. 


2VZ  THE  COOK'h   GUIPE.  .AHD 

No.  540.— TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

Thim  veiy  objectionable  title  enables  me  to  nsh 
to  your  special  notice  a  di^h  possessing  some  claii 
consideration,  when  prepared  with  care  as  follows : 
— cut  up  about  two  pounds  of  tender  steak  or  ox-kic 
or  half  of  each,  into  rather  thick  collopg  about  i 
inches  in  diameter ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
them  over  a  shai-p  fire,  merely  to  brown  them  wil 
their  being  done  through  ;  place  the  collops  in  neat  ( 
in  a  buttered  pie-dish ;  detach  the  brown  glaze  fron 
bottom  of  the  pan  in  which  you  have  fried  the  beef^ 
gravy  or  water,  and  a  little  catsup,  and  pour  the  re« 
to  the  collops  in  the  dish;  then  add  a  well-prej 
batter  for  Yorkshire  pudding.  No.  292,  gently  po 
upon  the  meat,  bake  for  a])out  an  hour,  and  serve  v 
quite  hot.  This  excellent  old  English  dish  Mdll  i 
sionally  prove  a  welcome  addition  to  the  dinner-tal 
paterfamilias. 

No.  541.— VINEGARET  OF  BEEF. 

Cut  small  and  very  thin  slices  of  cold -braized  or  i 
boiled  beef,  and  put  tliem  in  a  salad-bowl  with  si 
beetroot,  quarters  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  a  few  sJ 
cold  kidney  potatoes ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  t 
tablespoonfuls  of  salad-oil,  and  two  of  Crosse  and  B! 
well's  fine-herbs  vinegar,  chopped  parsley  and  sh< 
mix  well,  and  serve  either  for  luncheon  or  as  pait 
make-up  dinner. 

No.  512.— BOILED  TRIPE. 

Procure  any  given  quantity,  say  two  pounds,  of  cl 
dressed  fat  tripe ;  cut  it  in  j)ieces  of  about  three  in 
squaie,  and  boil  these  in  a  stewpan  with  eight  on: 
three  pints  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  twt 
four  pep]>eicorn8 ;  the  tripe,  &c.,  must  boil  gently  ft 
hour,  and  whoa  about  to  send  to  table,  remove  all  gi 
from  the  siu'fiice,  and  sei^e  altogether  in  a  soup-tu 
or  (i(M  p  dish,  with  onion  sauce,  scpaiately. 


BousicKEfiPBu's  AXD  butlbb's  ABSLSTAKT.  213 

No.  548.— FlilED  TEIPE. 

For  this  purpose  the  tripe  should  be  previously  boilod 
in  milk  or  stock  for  half  an  hour,  and  when  cold,  each 
piece  dip|Ded  sepai*ately  in  some  frying  batter,  Ko.  288, 
and  fried  crisp  in  some  hot  frying  fat  or  lai  d ;  when 
^one,  dish  up  with  fried  pai-sley  on  a  napkin,  and  some 
^omata,  piquanto,  poor-man's,  Proven^ale,  or  Lyonnaiso 
**auce,  served  separately  in  a  sauce-boat. 

No.  644.— STEWED  TRIVK. 

Slice  up'  six  onions ;  fry  them  with  two  ounces  of 
hjttor  until  browned ;  then  add  two  ounces  of  flour,  a 
tablespoonful  of  Captain  White's  (Crosse  and  Black- 
well's)  curry-paste  ;  moisten  with  a  pint  of  stock,  or 
^vate^ ;  stir  over  the  fire  imtil  the  sauce  boils ;  then  add 
the  pieces  of  tripe  and  a  little  more  stock  ;  stew  all 
together  gently  for  an  hour;  and  when  done,  remove  all 
grease,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  545.— BAKED  TRIPE. 

Fiy  six  sliced  onions  brown  with  some  butter,  and 
place  this  with  tlie  pieces  of  tnpe  in  an  earthen  pot  or 
\mx  (having  a  lid) ;  shake  a  good  tables] )oonfnl  of  flour 
oveV  the  tripe  ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Indian  Cliutneo,  a 
pint  of  cyder,  and  salt  to  season  ;  place  the  lid  on  the 
l)an,  and  set  it  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  to  bake  for 
about  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  when  done,  remove 
the  grease  from  the  surface.  Servo  the  tiipe  in  the 
pan  it  has  been  baked  in,  with  a  clean  napkin  pmned 
found  it. 

No.  540.— PORK  CHOPS. 

The  best  pork  chops  are  those  cut  from  the  kidney 
end  of  the  loin,  having  paii  of  the  kidney  left  adhering 
to  the  chop ;  they  should  be  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt,  broiled  carefully  of  a  light-brown  colour  on  both 
sides ;    and  when   done,   served   with   sage-and  onion 


214  THE  C00K8  6UIDK,   AMD 

gravy,  No  297,  and  apple  sance,  No.  50:  tomafl 
piqnante,  Eobert,  and  Proven^ale  sauces,  form  appK- 
priate  relishes  with  pork  chops. 

No.  W7.— PORK  CUTLETS. 

The  neck  part  of  small  dairj-fed  pork,  and  not  otb 
fat,  is  most  appropriate  for  cutlets.  In  trimmbig  them 
the  8kin  shonld  be  left  on,  and  scored  or  slit  at  inter- 
vals ;  the  cntlets  shonld  be  broiled  with  care,  allowmg 
them  to  become  very  lightly  colonred  on  both  sides ;  and 
when  done,  and  dished  up,  shonld  be  glazed  over,  and 
one  of  the  following  sauces  poured  round  the  base :  Tiz.. 
— piqnante,  tomata,  Proven9ale,  poor-man's,  shalotgraiyt 
Robert,  or  Lyonnaise. 

No.  W8.— PIGS  FRY. 

A  pig's  fry  consists  of  the  liver,  heart,  lights,  melt, 
and  the  chitterlings :  these  are  severally  cut  into  slices, 
and  after  being  floured  over,  should  be  fried  with  bntttf 
in  a  pan  over  a  brisk  fire,  very  quickly  until  browned 
all  over.  When  done,  they  should  be  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  dished  up  with  fried  parsley,  and 
served  with  sage-and  onion  gravj'.  No.  297. 

No.  549.— CURRIED  PORK. 

Take — say  two  pounds  of  pork  cut  from  any  part  of 
the  pig,  provided  that  it  be  not  too  fat ;  separate  this 
into  square  pieces  about  the  size  of  an  egg ;  fry  them 
brown  with  some  butter  in  a  stewpan;  then  add  six 
chopped  onions  previously  fried,  a  tablespoonfnl  of 
Crosse  and  Blackwell'a  curry  powder,  and  an  equal  qnan- 
tity  of  curr}'  paste,  a  little  salt,  and  nearly  a  pint  pf  stock 
or  water ;  stir  the  whole  ovor  the  fire  until  it  boils,  and 
then  set  it  to  simmer  slowly  for  about  three- quartcn 
of  an  hour.  When  done,  di.sh  up  the  pieces  of  pork 
neatly ;  reduce  the  sauce ;  pour  it  over  the  curry,  and 
^nd  to  table  with  plain  boiled  rice  in  a  separate  dish. 


nOCJSB&XSPEB'g   AND    BUTLEB'S   ASSISTANT.  215 

No.  550.— HASHBD  MUTTON  PLAIN. 

yotxip  the  mutton  intended  to  be  haslied  into  very 
"^  small  slices ;  shake  a  little  flonr,  pepper,  and  salt 
over  them,  and  throw  them  into  a  stewpan  wherein  has 
^^  boiling  some  finely-chopped  onion  with  a  little 
broth  or  water;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
Me  Harvey ;  boil  together  for  three  minutes,  and  seive 
^4  sippets  of  dry  toast  round  the  dish.  The  bones, 
8^ed,  may  be  added. 

No.  551.— linJTTON  HASHED  VENISON  FASHION. 

For  this  purpose  the  roast  mutton  should  be  cut  in 
rather  larger  and  thicker  slices ;  flour  and  season  them 
over  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  them  aside  on  a 
plate;  next,  put  some  chopped  shalot  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  Oude  sauce,  a  piece  of  glaze  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  two  glasses  of  port  wine,  a  little  Harvey, 
and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly  ;  add  the  pre- 
pared mutton ;  boil  together  for  five  minutes,  and  serve 
kt,  with  French  beans  in  a  separate  dish,  when  in 
season.  When  hashed  mutton  prepared  as  herein  indi- 
cated is  made  with  four-year-old  mutton,  it  is  equal  to 
venison. 

No.  552.-HASHED  MUTTON  A  LINDIKNXE. 

Boil  a  chopped  onion  in  half  a  pint  of  bi  oth  for  ten 
minutes,  then  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Captain  W  bite's 
curry  paste,  and  the  sliced  mutton  floured  and  seasoned  ; 
simmer  together  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and 
s^rve  in  a  border  of  plain-boiled  rice. 

Note. — In  addition  to  the  foregoing  methods  for 
kashing  mutton,  it  may  also  be  prepared  as  directed  for 
beef. 

No.  553.— MINCED  MUTTON. 

Chop  the  mutton  fine,  or  else  cut  it  up  into  very 
Small  thin  shreds ;  and  set  this  aside  on  a  plate ;  put 
%u  ounc^  of  butter,  ditto  of  flour,  and  a  little  chopped 


31$  Tax  cook'^  cnsi^  jj9 

fiui2':»T  in  a  Re-ajmia^  u&d  ssir  iiiais  cnrer  a  Tenr  slow  fire 

wTtib  «  srlfefiF  ic^  TpyrL  ^'ntio  <c€  Hatrr^T.  gmed  nntmeg  and 

«aT  itH  lioc-f^-cber  •crr-er  ifee  fce  vnlil  qiaate  hio^  sod  fterre 
wDiL  p:*c2?*id  ■egE*  -cisa  liae  lioi^,  ax>d  a  Irnss^erof  pD4a2D  civ- 

JT.Tftf ^ — Cnminl  J»fci3  J  Taay  be  «i3jte3,  if  sailed  to  tsiae. 

Xi  SM.— MXTTOX  CHOPS. 

j^jT^T  'Ex^  saUt:  feoH  cnr-er  a  cleir  fire;  mm  ihtiM 
ir&qmxi'Lhr  s&  dud  l^j  miT  reiiin  ili^  otvn  ^iatx.  mmA 
^tTTii  •eftcji  -di:!^  «ra  ai  £ie3»;i«i£;  itol  plute.  The  ftddilam 
'id  -k  Hiruie  ca:>c:f^i«id  sSsiLl-va*  ajod  a  '^  of  fnedi  rvtMT 
^IftciOii  ux^ss:  •efttb  €^k^  is  xm3  bad  thing;  br  vat  <f  a 

Xa  =S5l— UTTTOK  CTTLKTS  PLUX. 

Sbit  z^  i!be  Ti^^^er  rib-bcvites  ircmi  a  zttik.  cf  KunteBL 

le&Tiiig  -(be  Ik'I^*.  -wLicii  .sLpe  i£»  fonm  tbe  arJete,  abccai 
tSircir  ir»:-iift5  ^M:^:  TemcTe  ibe  fi5>3aihfr-bcaie  iriLh  k  SD^ili 
siiv;  T'fi^t*  a'waT  iLe  fiiT  bc'jies  irid.ci  *dii4ire  i*  ui* 
mifabrr  £jl€^  cf  iLr  Tj^^ci.  «>d  lien  sejiara:i«-  iLe  bciotf 
iin»:'  riTLle'Si  It  c-TiTriiii:  ^iainTrise  t.o  ibe  Jen :  ttiil  'iat 
rcijrTs  ii-sKt3v  rnitij-'TTT  ^wiLj.tie:  "seafcai  wiili  jiepper  icia 
finii :  brc'il  ibfcm  and  -disi  liiem  Tap  wrtb  plarn  ^mv  :  •drtr 
xu V  jjso  lie  difabfd  up  tciudS  3nuk6b£id  pcA;fi]i.oe&,  aad  sbiJvC 

Xa  ,^i55  — MUrrCiX  CUTLETS  BBEJkUCBrVBED. 

Trim  i]>e  cntleiS!  as  cir&rted  in  ihe  fcregrcing  Tmnber; 
season  wiiIl  jiepper  ai>d  salt:  pat  clcise^T  Mune  brie*i» 
ciTcnti?  en  fAcL  oaiJeT-  kztd  iben  liiTJng  difjjicd  tbcci 
?«cpiLrji*«:lT  in  ficnoe  -clkrifi^d  bntcer.  bPEjad-^rramt*  iiitai 
K^k.^ ;  broil  ibe  CutJ-eTs-  im  boii  sidei  ot^t  a  cJ««fl"  &t, 
dl«22  'ibem  irp.  And  sterre  viih  plu&  gjm^%  acder  «bc9i 

3Tx£. — Ci3i]ei£  p:*eparii^  as  abore  suj  also  b&  atrv^ 


flOnSXKEBPJEU'S  AND   HCTLBR*8   AB8I8TANT.  2lT 

with  ihiok  purees  of  pons,  aApfira^iR,  tumip»«  chesiniitti 
carrots,  ouions,  pottttous,  JuiiiKulem  articliokeH,  with 
Jardini^ren,  Mucedoines,  all  kinds  rf  drossed  vcjj^o- 
tableStBud  altio  with  tho  follo^viiijr  HaiicHiM,  viz. : — ])iquaiite 
tomata,  Italian,  poor-mtui's,  Kobort,  Lyounai^c,  &u. 

No.  657.— STEWED  SHEEP  6  KIDNEYa 

Split  six  kidneys  inliarlvcs :  rom(»vo  tho  hkin  ;  Klioo  up 
each  half  very  thinly;  fiy  tin's  with  an  (nnico  df  butter 
in  a  Bautapan,  until  browned;  then  shako  in  a  littlo 
flour,  chopi)ed  niutdirooms,  pai*sloy  and  shalot ;  soason 
with  pep{)or,  salt,  and  Icmon-juioo ;  add  a  glass  of  sherry ; 
ttir  over  tho  tire  for  live  niinntoK,  and  servo  hot :  mush 
room  or  trulHos  may  bo  added. 

No.  658.-SIlEEP'S  KIDNEYS  A  LEriCUllIKUNE. 

Draw  a  knifo  nearly  throujj;]i  each  kidnoy  from  tho 
outer  or  rounded  part  of  tho  kidney,  without  dividing; 
it;  roniove  tho  skins;  aesuion  with  popper  and  salt,  dip 
the  kidneys  in  clarified  butter  and  ornmb  them ;  run 
them  on  skewers,  and  having  broiled  tlioni  over  a  clear 
fire,  let  them  bo  dished  up,  ])resenting  tho  hollow  part 
up|)ermost;  fill  this  well  with  Tartar  sancio.  >!o.  ;i8; 
\Kmr  some  Devil's  sauce,  "So,  8M,  round  tho  base,  and 
lerve. 

No.  .n^i).— SHEKPS  KIDNEYS  WITH  FrXE-HERl^S. 

Prepare  and  broil  tho  kidneys  as  inilicate*!  in  tho  ]>re- 

>ding  case,  and  when  done  and  dished  up,  iill  the  well 

each  kidney  with  a  lump  of  niattre-triiotel  butler, 

>.  127  ;   pour  a  very  littlo  glaze  giavy  under  them,  and 

'vo  hot. 

No.  5G0.-S1IEKP*S  TKOTTERS. 

?hese  are  easily  obtained  n^ady  cleaned  and  parboiled, 
a    all    tri|.M)-shop8   throughout   tho   country :    they 
lid  be  put  on  to  IkhI  in  water  with  carrot,  onion, 
ry,  garnished  bouquet,  salt,  lemon,  or  a  littlo  vino- 
six  cloves,  and  a  few  peppercorns.     They  req>iin 


218  THB  OOOK'S   GUIBK,   AVB 

about  two  hours'  very  gentle  boiling  to  oook  the 
thoroughly;  and  when  done,  shoidd  be  split,  frei 
from  all  unnecessary  bones,  and  especially  of  the  hoc 
and  a  dingy-looking  curled  substance  of  a  very  offensti 
character,  which  is  found  situated  between  the  sepamtio 
of  the  hoof:  dish  up  the  feet  neatly,  and  pour  som 
Pouletto  sauce.  No.  36*  over  them,  and  serve. 

No.  561.-CALF8  LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Cut  the  liver  in  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  tnc 
thi'^k,  and  cut  also  some  streaky  bacon  into  small  thi 
slices,  or,  as  they  are  familiarly  termed,  rashers;  fr 
the  bacon  first,  and  drain  it  on  a  plate;  next,  afb 
having  floured  the  pieces  of  liver,  fry  these  also  in  tli 
fat  from  the  bacon,  and  when  browned  on  both  side 
dish  up  the  liver  and  bacon  in  a  circular  row,  placing 
piece  of  each  alternately  :  drain  otf  the  fat  from  the  pa 
in  which  the  liver  has  been  fried ;  shake  in  a  little  ficni 
add  a  wineglassful  of  catsup,  a  little  pepper  and  sal 
and  half  a  gill  of  stock  or  water  ;  stir  sdtogether  ot< 
the  fire,  until  the  sauce  boils,  and  pour  it  over  the  dished 
up  liver  and  bacon. 

Note, — A  few  sliced  gherkins,  mushrooms,  pickle 
walnuts,  or  even  mixed  pickles,  may  be  added  to  th 
sauce 

No.  562.— CALFS  LIVER  A  LA  BIODE. 

Cut  up  about  six  ounces  of  bacon  into  long  sqnar 
strippets  or  lardoons,  and  insert  these  at  equal  distance 
in  the  interior  part  of  the  liver;  fry  it  whole  in 
stewpan  with  two  oimces  of  butter,  a  clove  of  garlic 
thyme,  bay-leaf  and  parsley — tied  together,  an  onioi 
stuck  with  eight  cloves,  and  a  bit  of  mace ;  and  whei 
the  liver  is  equally  browned  all  over,  add  carroti 
turnips,  and  onions,  neatly  turned  of  equal  size,  a  gltf 
of  brandy,  and  stock  or  water,  barely  enough  to  cove 
the  whole;  allow  this  to  simmer  very  gently  for  aboa 
two  hours,  taking  care  to  baste  the  liver  frequently  witl 
it«  own  liquor.     When  done,  x^lace  the  liver  op  its  Hipl 


HOUaVESiTER'S  AND   BUTLSB'S   ASSISTANT.  219 

garnished  round  with  the  vegetables ;  strain  the  stock, 
remove  the  grease,  add  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  little 
HaiTBj,  boU  it  doyrn  to  the  quantity  needed  to  sauce 
^h  liver,  pour  it  over,  and  serve. 

No.  563.— SCOTCH  OOLLOPS. 

Oiit  about  a  pound  of  veal  cutlet  into  thin  collops  or 
slices,  about  two  inches  in  diameter ;  season  them  with 
chopped  parsley  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt ;  dip  each 
piece  in  beaten  egg,  crumb  them  over  with  bread- 
crumbs, and  fry  them  with  a'  little  clarified  butter  in  a 
sautapan,  of  a  very  light-brown  colour ;  dish  them  up, 
placing  alternately  a  veal  collop  and  a  small  thin  piece 
of  fried  bacon  ;  pour  some  piquante  sauce  over  them, 
and  serve. 

Note, — If  more  convenient,  the  same  sauce  as  indicated 
in  Kg.  561,  may  be  used. 

No.  564.— VEAL  CUTLETS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Cut  up  a  pound  or  more  of  veal  cutlets  into  oval, 
oblong,  or  heart-shaped  cutlets,  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  fry  them  brown 
on  both  sides,  and  dish  them  up — alternately  with  small 
thin  slices  of  fried  ham,  or  bacon ;  drain  off  half  tho 
hutter  from  the  pan,  shake  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
some  mushroom  catsup,  and  a  handful  of  mushrooms; 
nu)isten  with  a  gill  of  stock  or  water ;  boil  all  together 
for  five  minutes ;  pour  the  sauce  over  the  cutlets,  and 
serve. 

No.  565.— MINCE  VEAL  WITH  POACHED  EGGS. 

Minced  veal  is  most  appropriately  served  when  it 
pappeiis  that  some  portion  of  a  previously-dressed  joint 
^8  left;  in  which  case  all  the  meat  should  be  cut  from 
"10  bones,  minced  into  very  small  thin  shreds,  and  set 
apait  in  a  stewpan ;  the  bones  are  to  be  broken  up,  and 
P^*  in  a  stewpan  with  an  onion,  carrot,  celery,  half  a 
"(yleaf,  thyme,  parsley,  two  cloves,  a  few  peppercorns, 
*  little  salt,  and  about  a  quart  of  water;  set  this  to  boil 


220  THB   COOK  8   QVWm^   AXD 

gently  for  an  lionr,  and  when  done,  strain  it,  and  bar 
removed  all  grease,  make  it  into  white  sance, — see  . 
15;  and  having  stinted  the  sance  over  the  fire  m 
rednced  to  the  quantity  required  for  your  purpose,  str 
one  half  into  a  small  stewpan,  and  add  the  remainder 
the  minced  veal ;  seojson  with  nutmeg,  grated  lemc 
peel,  pepper  and  salt;  make  it  hot;  pile  it  up  in  t 
centre  of  the  dLsh  ;  garnish  it  round  with  poached  CQ 
and  very  small  pieces  of  rolled  thin  bacon  fried ;  po 
the  other  half  of  the  sauce  over  the  minced  veal  ai 
round  the  baise  of  the  entree,  and  serve. 

No.  56G.— CALFS  BRAINS  A  LA  RAMGOTTE. 

The  two  lobes  of  the  brains  should  be  separated  wi 
a  knite,  and  after  being  soaked  in  cold  water  for  a  whi 
the  caul  or  skin  which  envelops  t];^em  must  be  geni 
removed  with  the  fingers ;  and,  after  remaining  in  fre 
water  a  little  longer,  the^?  should  be  slowly  boiled  in  h 
pint  of  water  seasoned  with  a  spoonful  of  vin^ar, 
little  sliced  onion,  can*ot,  bay-leaf,  th^Tne,  pepper  ai 
salt :  when  the  brains  are  done,  they  tdiould  be  draiitf 
cut  in  thick  collops,  and  dished  up  like  cutlets,  saoc 
over  with  ravigotte.  No.  34,  and  garnished  round  wi 
potato  croquets. 

No.  567.— CALF'S  BRAINS  WITH  NLT-BROWN  BUTTH 

Prepare  and  dish  up  the  brains  as  indicated  in  the  pi 
ceding  case ;  pour  some  nut-brown  butter.  No.  54,  ov 
them ;  garnish  the  centre  with  firied  parsley,  and  serve 

No.  568.— CALFS  BRAINS  FRIED. 

The  brains  are  to  be  prepared  in  the  first  instani 
as  shown  in  No.  566,  and  when  cold,  are  to  be  cut  in 
slices— lengthwise— of  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  i 
thickness ;  these  must  be  dipped  in  frying  batter  K< 
288,  fried  in  suflScient  very  hot  lard,  or  other  frying  fi 
— to  make  them  swim ;  turn  them  lightly  over  the  whol 


HOUSXKSSPEB's   AMD   BUTL£B*S   ASSISTANT.  221 

me  they  are  being  fried,  in  order  that  they  ma}'  be 
lually  browned  all  over ;  and  when  done,  and  crisp, 
"ain  and  dibh  them  up  on  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley, 
id  serve  one  of  the  following  sauces  separately  in  a 
uce-boat:  viz, — tomata,  piquante,  poor-man's,  ravi- 
'tte,  Eobei-t,  &c. 

Ko.  569.-OALF'S  BRAINS  IN  CASES.  AU  GRATIN. 

The  bi-ains,  after  being  cleansed,  boiled,  and  cut  into 
all  collops,  must  be  added  to  some  well-seasoned 
lemande,  Bechamel,  ravigotte,  or  maitre-d'hotel  sauce 
previously  made  hot ;  mix  them  gently  in  this,  and 
:h  the  preparation  fill  some  paper  cases,  Ko.  325  ; 
3w  fried  bread-crumbs  upon  the  tops;  push  in  the 
m  for  a  few  minutes  ;  dish  up  the  causes  on  a  napkin 
ih  fried  parsley,  and  servo  hot. 

Vofe. — Ham,  tongue,  truffle,  mushrooms,  or  any  kind 
pickles  may  be  added  in  small  quantities. 

No.  570.— CALF'S  FEET  A  LA  BOURGEOISE. 

Split  and  bone  a  couple  of  calf  s  feet,  and  parboil  them 
water  for  ten  minutes ;  they  are  then  to  be  placed  in 
tewpan  with  half  a  pound  of  raw  ham  or  gammon  of 
con,  and  a  pound  of  knuckle  of  veal,  two  carrots  cut 
equal  shapes  and  sizes,  six  or  eight  onions,  four 
)ves,  a  garnished  faggot  of  parsley,  a  wineglass  of 
ashroom  catsup,  pepper  and  salt;  moisten  with  a 
lart  of  broth  or  water ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  set  the  feet, 
i.,  to  stew  very  slowly  indeed  by  the  side  of  the  fire 
r  about  two  hours  and  a  half,  taking  care  to  tuni  the 
eat,  (fcc,  over  occasionally,  in  order  that  the  whole  may 
ecorne  gradually  glazed  all  over  alike :  care  must  be 
iken  while  the  feet,  &c.,  are  stewing,  that  by  the  time 
iiey  are  done,  the  stock  or  liquor  should  be  allowed 
P^dually  to  boil  down  to  the  quantity  required  for 
iancing  the  dish ;  and  when  all  is  done  quite  soft  and 
»nder,  dish  up  the  whole  of  the  meats  with  the  vege- 
Tound  them ;  pour  the  gravy  over  all,  and  K^erve. 


232  THE  OOOK'8  GUIDE,  ASD 

No.  57l.-€ALF6  FEET  A  LA  POULETTE. 

As  a  general  rule,  calfs  feet  are  fir»t  boiled  in  v 
without  any  addition,  for  the  purpose  of  extrac 
their  gelatine  for  making  jellie8 ;  but  even  then, 
vided  the  feet  are  not  too  much  done,  so  as  to  bcc 
worthlefis,  they  should  be  drained  on  a  dish,  seaa 
vrith  a  little  vin^ar,  chopped  parsley  and  shalot.  pe| 
and  salt,  and  after  being  allowed  time  to  become 
impregnated  \%dth  this  seasoning,  should  be  made 
with  a  grKni  bit  of  glaze  and  a  couple  of  Indian  gl 
kins  sliced  up. 

Xute. — Cairs  feet  prepared  as  above  may  also 
warmed  in  some  Poulette,  fine-herbs,  tomata,  piqna 
or  ravigotte  sauce. 

No.  572.-CALFS  FEET  FRIED. 

When  the  feet  have  been  boiled,  sc^asoned  as  in  No.  I 
and  are  cold,  cut  them  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  si 
cutlet :  dip  each  piece  in  batter,  No.  288  ;  frj'  them  in 
fat,  and  wlien  become  crisp,  let  them  be  drained  o 
cloth,  dished  up  on  a  napkin  i^dth  or  without  fj 
parbley,  and  some  tomata,  piquante,  or  ravigotte  eat 
served  separately. 

No.  573.— LAMBS  HEAD  OAlXniAUFUIED. 
See  Sheep  s  Head,  No.  423. 

No.  574.— LAMB'S  FBY. 

Lamb's  fry  consists  of  the  heart,  liver,  melt,  bra 
kidneys,  the  frill,  breads,  and  other  delicacies;  tL 
should  be  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  & 
floured  over,  and  fried  crisp;  and  when  browned 
both  sides,  should  be  dished  up  with  fried  parsley, : 
served  with  good  gravy,  or  any  sharp  sauce. 


OOtJgSKEKPBR'S   AND   BUTLEB'B   A88IBTAKT.  228 

No.  575.— LAMB'S  FEET  A  lA  POULETTE. 

jamVs  feet  are  always  easily  obtained  ready  scalded 
I  boned  from  the  butcher  or  the  tripe-shop.  They 
old  be  put  in  a  stewpan  with  an  onion  stuck  with 
r  cloves,  a  sliced  carroty  garaished  faggot  of  parsley, 
•percoins,  enough  salt  to  season,  the  pulp  of  a  lemon, 
f  (mnces  of  chopped  suet,  and  sufficient  water  to  let 
m  Bwim ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  boil  them  very  gently 
il  done — this  will  take  about  an  hour.  When  about 
liflh  up,  the  feet  must  be  drained  on  a  cloth,  all  the 
;e  bones  removed,  and  a  black  curled  noisome  tsub- 
ice  taken  out  from  between  the  hoofs;  this  done, 
»  the  feet  neatly  piled  in  their  dish ;  pour  some 
dette  sauce  with  mushrooms,  No.  36,  over  them; 
oish  with  potato  croquets,  and  sei-ve. 

No.  676.— LAMB  CHOPS  BREADED. 

-amb  chops  are  best  when  cut  with  a  slice  of  the 
ttey  and  its  fat  left  adhering  to  the  chop;  they 
^Id  be  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  dipped  in 
rified  butter,  well  crumbed  over  with  fresh  bread- 
Qibs,  and  carefully  broiled  of  a  light-golden  brown 
Wh  sides,  and  served  with  fried  parsley  and  tomata 
ce. 

No.  577.— LAMB  CUTLETS  WLTH  CUCUIVIBERS. 

I^riin  a  neck  of  lamb  as  demonstrated  in  No.  555, 
I  prepare  the  cutlets  in  exactly  the  same  manner. 
i^n  done,  glaze  them  over,  and  having  dished  them 
'p  a  circular  row,  fill  the  centie  with  cucumber 
^i-sh,  No.  109,  pour  soiue  of  the  sauce  round  the  base 
"■^e  cutlets,'  and  serve. 

No.  578.— LAMB  CUTLETS  A  LA  ROBERT. 

"nm  the  cutlets,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip 
^  in  beaten  egg  and  crumb  tliem  over,  and  pat  the 
•Tibs  on  closely;  dip  each  cutlet  in  some  clarified 
ter,  ornmb  them  again,  and  pat  them  into  shape  with 


224  Tns  oook's  crtids,  asb 

the  blade  of  a  knife ;  broil  the  cutletB  over  a  deur  fi 
of  a  light  colour,  and  when  done,  and  ^azed  OTer 
dished  up,  and  sauced  round  with  some  Eoberi  sum 
So,  35,  send  to  table. 

No.  579.— ROiSTED  SWEETBBEAD& 

Soak  the  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  a  oonple 
hours  to  draw  all  the  blood  out,  and  hv  this  mMi 
render  them  more  delicate  and  white ;  parboil  then  i 
water  for  five  minutes,  immerse  them  in  cold  water  t 
cool  them,  and  trim  away  all  extraneous  parts  in  A 
form  of  sinew  and  skin :  next,  dip  a  paste-bnuk  i 
two  raw  yolks  of  e^s,  and  having  rubbed  the  iswi^ 
breads  all  over  with  the  e^,  and  roUed  them  in  iip 
bread-crumbs,  you  then  sprinkle  them  OTer  with  dir 
fied  butter,  and  bread-crumb  them  again,  imd  pls^ 
them  in  a  sautapan  containing  about  two  ounces  c 
dis&iolved  butter,  and  set  them  in  a  sharp  oven  lo  l)*^ 
fi^r  about  half  an  hour,  basting  them  frequently  witi 
the  butter  from  the  pan.  When  they  are  done  of 
light-golden  brown,  dish  them  up  widi  plain  gra^y  (' 
for  a  delicate,  or  convalescent  person),  or  else  ganus 
I  hem  with  any  kind  of  dres^sed  vegetables;  and  tk^ 
may  ba  sauced  with  any  kind  of  white  sauce. 

Xo.  5S0.— SWEETBREAD  CCTLETS. 

First  soak  and  parboil  the  sweetbreads  as  directed  i 
the  foregoing  case,  and  when  cold,  cut  them  in  thi 
slices  lengthwise :  trim  them  neatly  into  shape  witbtM 
waste;  sciison  the  cutlets  thus  produced  with  pepp 
and  salt;  brush  them  over  with  raw  yolks  of  eij 
bread-crumb  them,  and  after  dipping  each  in  clan& 
butter,  enimb  them  over  again ;  pat  them  into  shape :  t 
them  on  both  sides  with  clarified  butter  in  a  sautapi 
and  when  dune,  glazed,  and  dished  up,  garnish  ti 
centre  with  any  kind  of  dressed  vegetable ;  pc>ur  sot 
Allemande,  Bechamel,  or  grav^-  round  the  base,  « 
ijorve. 


BOUBBKBEPEB'b  and  BUTLKfi-S  ASSISTANT.  225 

Ko.  581.— BEEFSTEAKS  A  LA  FRAXCAIBE. 

These  are  cut  from  that  part  of  a  rump  or  sirloin  of 
beef  whioh  is  called  the  fillet — better  ^own  to  most 
English  people  by  the  apellation  of  **the  under-cut 
from  a  sinoin:" — for  this  purpose  procure  about  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  fillet  of  beef;  pare  on  all  sinew  and  excess 
of  fat ;  cat  the  fillet  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  season  them  on  a  plate,  with  a  little  oil,  pepper  and 
8alt;  broil  on  both  sides — a  little  under-done ;  dish  them 
ttpwithmattre-d'h6tel  butter, No.  127,  under  them;  gar- 
lush  round  with  Med  potatoes ;  ^laze  the  beefsteaks,  and 
serve  before  the  butter  is  melted. 

No.  682^BEEFSTEAK  A  LA  CHATEAUBRLiND. 

In  this  case  the  fillet,  when  trimmed,  should  be  cut  in 
slices  an  inch  thick,  seasoned  with  oil,  pepper  and  salt, 
grilled  with  their  gravy  pouring  from  them  when  dished 
%  garnished  with  mushrooms  au  gratin,  No.  676,  and 
P^rigneux  sauce  poured  over  them. 

No.  583.— BEEFSTEAKS  WITH  ANCHOVY  BUTTER. 

Prepare  the  fillet  steaks— and  broil  them  as  directed 
i^No.  681,  and  when  dished  up,  place  anchovy  butter, 
^0. 128,  under  them ;  fried  potatoes  in  the  centre ;  glaze 
tlie  steaks,  and  serve. 

No.  584.— EPICUREAN  BEEFSTEAK. 

Prepare  the  fillet  steaks  as  shown  in  No.  582 ;  dish 
ttem  up  with  epicurean  butter.  No.  130,  under  them ; 
pour  tniffle  sauce,  No.  65,  over  them ;  garnish  round 
with  oval  slices  of  potatoes  fried,  and  serve. 

No.  585.— FILLETS  OF  BEEP  A  LA  SOUBISE. 

These  are  prepared  as  in  No.  581 ;  and  previously  to 
dishing  them  up,  some  Soubise  sauce,  No.  58,  should  be 
piled  in  the  centre  of  the  dish ;  and  the  grilled  fillets  of 

Q 


i26  TBM  oooif  8  aawm,  axd 

beef  being  neatly  placed  Tonnd  this,  pour  a  little  k^ 
glaze  round  the  dikh,  and  senre. 

XoU, — Fillets  of  beel^  or  steak-fiQeiB,  prepared 
directed  in  No.  581,  may  alao  be  served  widi  all  krxa 
of  dressed  vegetables  as  a  garnish ;  or  with  anj  d  tl 
under-named  sauces ;  viz.,  tomata,  piquante,  PrafTengaJb 
oyster,  Lyonnaise,  mushroom,  Ac 

No.  58&— CAUre  HEAD  AND  BACON. 

The  half  of  a  calTs  head  is  generally  coDsiderrf 
enough  for  any  ordinary  purpose :  this  should  be  M 
well  soaked  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  so,  parboilod  ia 
water  with  salt  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  placed  ia 
a  stewpan  with  an  onion  stuck  with  six  doves,  cifflA 
celery,  garnished  £si^ot  of  parsley,  a  bit  of  mace,  lai  • 
good  tablespoonfol  of  salt,  a  little  chopped  suet  aoid  the 
pulp  of  a  lemon ;  moisten  with  enough  water  to  let  the 
calfs  head  swim,  and  set  the  whole  to  boil  gendy  fv 
about  an  hour  and  a  half;  and  when  done,  place  the 
head  on  its  dish,  cut  the  tongue  in  oollops,  and  place 
these  at  one  end,  the  brains  (having  been  prepared  ai  ib 
No.  566)  at  the  other  end,  and  some  snudl  rashen  of 
fried  bacon  in  the  flanks  of  the  dish ;  pour  some  pankj 
sauce,  No.  48,  over  the  calfs  head,  and  serve. 

No.  587.— CALFS  HEAD  HASHED. 

The  calTs  head  for  hashing  must  be  prepared  in  tk 
first  instance  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  case ;  or,  ti 
it  may  happen,  the  remains  of  a  calTs  head  dressed  for 
a  previous  day's  dinner,  will  do  equally  as  well  fx 
bashing.  In  either  case,  the  head  must  be  cut  in  neafij- 
trimmed  pieces,  about  the  size  and  form  of  a  five-shUliog 
piece,  and  placed  in  a  stewpan.  Next,  chop  six  ahakti 
and  put  this  in  a  stewpan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  Crofle 
and  BlackwelFs  Indium  Chutnee,  and  a  wineglassfiil  d 
vinegar;  boil  this  down  to  half  its  original  quantity; 
then  add  a  pint  of  the  stock  in  which  the  oiif  s  hii 


HOUBXKXSPEB'S  AND  BUTLIEB  B  ASSISTANT.  227 

I  been  boiled,  two  ounces  of  glaze,  and  an  ounoe  oi 
tter  kneaded  with  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  flour;  stir 
JB  sanoe  over  the  fire  to  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
d  then  strain  it  to  the  pieces  of  calfs  head ;  add  a 
tie  browning  to  give  it  a  rich  colour;  simmer  all 
Sether  for  ten  minutes ;  pile  up  the  pieces  of  calf *h 
>ad  in  the  centre  of  the  dish ;  garnish  round  with  fried 
Igs  and  Indian  gherkins;  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
hole,  and  serve. 


No.  688.— CALF'S  HEAD  BROILED. 

Boil  half  a  calfs  head  as  shown  in  No.  586;  and 
hen  done,  take  it  out  of  its  stock,  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
laoe  to  become  half  cold.  Next,  place  the  head  on  a 
reaaed  baking-dish ;  rub  two  yolks  of  raw  eggs  all  over 
le  surface;  sprinkle  thickly  some  fried  bread-crumbs, 
0. 296 ;  upon  this  pour  a  little  of  the  stock  on  the  dish 
*keep  the  head  moist;  sprinkle  an  ounce  of  dissolved 
itter  over  the  crumbing ;  push  the  disb  containing  the 
»d  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  about  twenty  minutes,  and 
hen  quite  hot,  place  it  on  its  dish ;  garnish  it  with  tlie 
Dgue,  brains,  and  small  slices  of  fiied  bacon ;  sauce 
und  with  piquante  sauce.  No.  22,  and  soi-vo. 


No.  589.— CALF'S  HEAD  A  LA  FINANCIERE. 

Bone  the  calfs  head,  and  after  it  has  been  parboiled 
water  with  salt  for  twenty  minutes,  and  has  cooled, 
t  it  up  into  pieces  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  oi 
nare ;  trim  these  neatly,  and  boil  them  with  the  same 
getables,  &c.,  as  recommended  in  No.  686  ;  and  when 
ne,  dish  up  the  head  as  follows :  viz., — skin,  trim, 
d  split  the  tongue,  and  lay  it  flat  in  tlio  centre  of  the 
h:  at  each  end  of  this  place  tlie  ears  (previously 
aped  and  curled) ;  set  the  brains  on  the  tongue,  and 
ifls  the  pieces  of  head  in  close  rows  all  round ;  pour  a 
aanoiere  ragout,  No.  104,  over  the  dish,  and  serve. 

q2 


228  THE  OOOlfg  OUIDK.  AMD 


No.  590.— GALFS  HEAD,  TUBTLE  FASHION. 

Let  the  calf  s  head  be  prepared  as  in  the  for^oiDS 
case,  with  this  difference,  that  a  bnnch  of  turtle  heibt, 
consisting  of  basil,  maijoram,  lemon-thyme,  and  a  little 
pennyroyal,  together  with  six  shalots,  diould  be  added. 
The  stock  may  be  used,  with  the  addition  of  some  gbae 
and  madeira  to  make  the  sance,  as  directed  in  No.  12| 
and  when  finished,  should  be  strained  into  a  bainmane 
stewpan  (see  Adams'  Illustrations). 

When  about  to  send  to  table,  dish  up  the  calf  s  bead, 
as  shown  in  the  preceding  number,  garnish  with  deco 
rated  quenelles,  mushrooms,  and  crayfish;  pour  the 
sauce  over  all,  and  serve. 

No.  591.— HARIOOT  OF  OX-TAIL. 

Divide  the  ox-tail  at  the  joints,  which  are  indicated 
by  a  semi-transparent  spot  on  the  sinews  which  oonnw^ 
the  joints ;  parboil  them  in  water  for  ten  minutes,  and 
trim  away  all  asperitiuh,  so  as  to  give  the  pieoea  a 
smooth,  roxmded  appearance ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  witii 
carrot,  celery,  fa^ot  of  parsley,  an  onion  stuck  with 
six  cloves,  a  bit  of  mace,  a  dozen  peppercorns,  a  spoonfid 
of  salt,  and  two  quarts  of  water ;  boil  very  gently  for  two 
hours,  and  when  the  pieces  are  become  quite  tender, 
take  them  up  on  a  dish,  and  set  them  aside.  Strain 
the  stock  into  a  stewpan,  remove  all  grease  from  itB 
surface,  stir  in  four  ounces  of  brown  thickening,  Xa  9; 
add  about  half  a  pound  of  shaped  carrots,  the  same  o' 
turnips,  and  eight  middle-sized  omons ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  allow  the  whole  to  boil  veiy  gently 
until  the  vegetables  are  done,  and  then  remove  thett 
carefully  into  a  stewpan  already  containing  the  pieoea 
of  ox-tail ;  skim  the  sauce ;  boil  it  down  if  too  thin ;  M 
a  lump  of  sugar ;  strain  it  to  the  ox-tail,  &c. ;  allow  the 
haricot  to  simmer  for  ten  minutes  over  the  fire,  asd 
oerve  neatly  in  its  dish. 


houcobkekpkb'b  and  butudl's  assistamt.         229 

No.  592.— OX-TAIL  WITH  BTEWED  PEAS. 

Stew  tlie  ox-tail  as  directed  in  No.  591,  and  when 
lone,  remove  tlie  pieces  into  a  clean  stewpan;  strain 
iheir  stock,  free  it  from  greane,  and  boil  it  down  to  thin 
^aze :  add  this  to  the  pieces  of  tail. 

When  about  to  send  to  table,  warm  the  ox-tail  in  its 
;1aze ;'  arrange  the  pieces  in  a  circle  on  the  dish ;  garnish 
the  centre  with  stewed  peas,  No.  690 ;  pour  the  glaze 
round  the  base  of  the  ox-tail,  and  serve. 

NoU, — Ox-tails  prepared  as  above  may  also  be  served 
with  dressed  spinach.  Jardiniere,  Mao^doine,  or  any 
)ther  kind  of  dressed  vegetable. 

No.  593.— OX-TAIL  BREADED  AND  GRILLED. 

First  braize  the  ox-tail ;  and  when  done,  and  cold, 
Wm  the  pieces  neatly;  season  them  with  chopped 
parsley  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt;  egg  and  bread- 
BTumb  them,  and  after  having  sprinkled  each  piece 
with  clarified  butter,  bread-crumb  them  again  ;  place 
the  pieces  of  ox-tail  on  a  sautapan  containing  an  ounce 
of  butter ;  push  in  the  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes  to 
bake  them  of  a  light-golden  brown,  and  when  done,  dish 
them  up  with  shalot  gravy,  No.  64. 

Note* — Ox-tails,  prepared  as  above,  may  also  be  served 
^ith  Tartar  sauce,  No.  38. 

No.  594.— BREAST  OF  MUTTON  GRILLED. 

Abreast  of  mutton  intended  for  braizing  should  be 
Si8t  neatly  and  securely  tied  with  string,  like  a  large 
paper  parcel  when  it  is  corded  several  times  across: 
jhi8  operation  is  needed  to  prevent  the  breast  from 
ailing  to  pieces  when  done,  and  while  it  is  being  taken 
ip,  which,  from  the  necessity  of  its  over-braizing,  in 
irderto  render  it  mellow,  would  be  the  case.  The  breast 
i  mutton  being  thus  corded,  let  it  be  braized  in  some 
took  garnished  with  a  small  complement  of  vegetables, 
5c.;   and  when  done  quite  tender,  take  it  up  by  the 


930  THB  COOK'S  GTUmX.  Aln> 

striug  carefully  on  to  a  dish ;  pull  out  all  the 
place  another  dish  on  the  breast  to  press  it 
without  smashing  it;  aod  as  soon  as  cold,  cut 
oblong,  square,  or  heart-shaped  cutlets :  all  exoee 
should  be  pared  away ;  the  cutlets  should  be  very 
scored  in  diamond  tracing,  seasoned  with  pep] 
salt,  dipped  in  dissolved  butter,  and  well  crumbe 
the  crumbing  being  closely  patted  on  each  breas 
with  a  knife.  When  about  to  send  to  table,  g 
cutlets  on  both  sides  of  a  light  colour;  dish  i 
sauce  round  with  piquante,  tomata,  Italian,  or  ai 
kind  of  sauce  best  suited  to  your  taste  or  oonven 


No.  594a.— IBISH  STEW. 

Cut  up  about  four  pounds  of  either  neck  or  loin  of  mn 
eight  or  ten  neatly  trimmed  chops,  paring  away  all  exc 
and  rough  bone ;  season  plentifully  with  pepper,  and  wn 
with  salt ;  place  the  chops  in  a  deep  stewpan  or  sauce] 
sufficient  water  to  cover  in  their  surface,  add  eight  gi 
onions,  put  the  lid  on  and  set  the  whole  on  the  fire  to  ste 
for  half  an  hour ;  the  stew  must  then  he  removed  fion 
the  liquor  poured  into  a  basin,  and  after  being  freed 
grease,  is  to  he  poured  back  to  the  chops  ;  add  a  doze 
potatoes,  and  a  pint  of  good  stock  or  gravy,  if  handy, 
that,  (in  case  that  the  moisture  has  been  reduced  to  hal 
ginal  quantity)  a  like  quantity  of  water  will  da  The 
then  to  he  placed  on  the  fire  to  boil  gently  for  about  thrw 
of  an  hour,  due  care  being  taken  that  the  moisture  doe 
come  wholly  ahsorhed  by  the  stew,  or  burnt  at  the  bottt 
stewpan,  as  this  latter  accident  would  entirely  spoil 
As  soon  as  the  Irish  stew  is  done,  let  it  he  dished  up  a 
viz. :  first  remove  the  potatoes  carefully  on  to  a  plate, 
use  a  fork  and  spoon  to  place  the  cutlets  or  chops  neat 
the  dish,  add  the  potatoes  in  their  centre,  and  pour  the  § 
onions,  &c.,  over  the  whole,  and  serve  hot. 

Note. — A  less  expensive  method  of  making  Irish  s 
use  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  or  indeed  an 
pieces  of  meat  most  convenient,  as  well  as  the  rem 
cooked  joint  of  hecf.  mutton,  or  veal. 


B0U8IKUPXE*8  AMD  BUTLSE'B    ▲B8I8XAliT.  231 


CHAPTER  XIV. 
ENTBSBS  OF  8UPEBI0B  OLASa 


No.  595.— OX-PALATES  A  LA  FLOBENTINB. 

[£  ox-palates  must  be  soaked  in  water  with  a  good 
ndful  of  salt  for  'several  hours,  being  frequently 
ndled  to  extract  the  mucus ;  they  must  next  be  par- 
Hed  in  water  with  salt  xmtil  the  homy  cuticle  or  skin 
lioh  covers  the  roof  part  is  easily  scraped  off.  When 
Drot^hly  cleansed,  they  are  to  be  put  in  a  stewpan 
th  carrot,  onion,  celery,  feggot  of  parsley,  six  cloves, 
we  and  peppercorns,  a  clove  of  garlic,  an  ounce  of 
it,  and  tlieo  quarts  of  water  or  stock,  and  boiled  very 
ntly  for  about  four  hours :  when  done  quite  tender, 
By.are  to  be  put  in  press  between  two  dishes  until 
li  The  best  part  of  the  palates  should  then  be 
UQped  out  with  a  circular  tin  cutter  the  size  of  a 
Dwn-pieoe,  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with  some  of  their 
)ck  previously  boiled  down  to  glaze  :  the  trimmings, 
jether  with  ham,  and  the  addition  of  any  other  meat 
tet  convenient,  are  to  be  made  into  Polpetti,  No.  354, 
ambed,  and  fried,  and  dished  up  alternately  with  the 
lates;  place  some  macaroni  k  la  Milanaise,  No.  126, 
the  centre ;  pour  Italian,  or  any  other  brown  sauce, 
md  the  base  of  the  entree,  and  serve. 

No.  596.~OX-PALATES  CURRIED. 

[Cleanse  and  braize  the  palates,  as  in  the  preceding 
e,  and  when  done,  pressed   and  cold,  cut  each  iii 


883  THS  OOOK-B  GUn>S|  AND 

equare  or  oblong  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  stewp^q 
with  sufficient  cuny  sance,  No,  85,  for  the  pnipi^i^ 
make  it  hot,  and  serve  the  curried  ox-palates  in  a  borv^ 
of  plain  rice. 

No.  597.— MUTTON  CITTLETS  A  LA  80X7BISE. 

Trim  a  neck  of  mutton,  and  divide  it  into  ciitlcii^ 
according  to  directions  given  in  Ko.  555;   place    the 
cutlets  in  neat  order  in  a  sautapan  with  an  ounoe  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt :  fr}"*  them  brown  on  both  sideB 
alike ;  shake  an  ounce  of  flour  over  and  about  the  cutleti; 
moisten  with  a  wineglassful  of  catsup  and  half  a  pint  dF 
stock  or  water ;  stir  or  rather  move  the  whole  over  the 
fire  until  it  boils,  and  allow  it  to  stew  gently  for  about 
twenty  minutes ;  the  cutlets  should  then  be  disbed  up 
in  a  circle,  some  thick  onion  or  Soubise  sauce.  No.  58, 
piled  up  in  the  centre,  and  after  all  grease  and  sciini 
have  been  removed  from  the  sauce,  and  it  has  been  boiled 
down  to  a  proper  consistency,  pour  it  round  the  cntletB, 
and  serve. 

No.  598.— MUTTON  CUTLETS  A  LA  VICOMTESSR 

Trim,  season,  and  fry  the  cutlets  as  in  the  preceding 
number;  and  when  done  on  both  sides,  add  chopped 
mushrooms,  a  little  cooked  ham,  or  lean  of  bacofi- 
parsley  and  shalots  ;  season  with  nutmeg,  pepper  and 
salt,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  good  pinch  of  sugar; 
add  a  good  tablespoonful  of  flour,  moisten  with  bsdf  * 
pint  of  stock,  and  an  ounce  of  glaze ;  stir  the  sauce  on 
the  fire  until  it  has  boiled  for  twenty  minutes,  and  hw 
become  leduced  to  a  satisftictory  consistency  or  thick- 
ness. About  four  raw  yolks  of  eggs  must  then  be  added, 
and  quickly  stirred  in  with  the  sauce  over  the  fire  to 
bind  it ;  the  cutlets  and  sauce  should  now  be  allowed  to 
cool  partially,  and  then  each  cutlet  must  be  covered  and 
smoothed  over  with  some  of  the  sauce,  and  placed  fit* 
on  a  dish  to  become  cold  and  set  firm,  so  as  to  enaUe 
ycm  to  egg  and  bread-crumb  them ;  place  the  ciitkti 


BOUSIKKIPSB'S  Am)  BUTLEBB  ABSISTAIfT.  288 

J  in  order  in  a  fiyine-ba^ket  (see  Adams'  Illustra- 
i) ;  immerse  them  in  not  lard,  and  having  fried  them 
light-brown  colour,  dish  them  up  with  a  small 
ir  mil  on  the  bone  of  each  outlet ;  garnish  the  centre 
.  any  kind  of  dressed  vegetable ;  pour  some  sauce 
d  the  base,  and  serve. 

No.  699.— MUTTON  CUTLETS  A  LA  REFOEMB. 

avin^  trimmed  the  cutlets,  let  them  be  bread 
ibed  oy  first  dipping  them  in  beaten  eggs,  and  then 
d-crumbing  them  with  equal  parts  of  dried  bread- 
lbs  and  finely-chopped  lean  of  cooked  ham  mixed 
ther :  the  cutlets  must  then  be  fried  on  both  sides, 
when  thoroughly  done,  are  to  be  dished  up  in  a 
e,  the  centre  garnished  with  reform  chips,  No.  103  ; 
:  some  reform  sauce.  No.  28,  over  the  cutlets,  and 
e. 

Jo.  600.— MUTTON  CUTLETS  A  LA  PROVENCALE. 

irst,  chop  about  six  large  onions  fine  and  put  them 
a  stewpan  vnth  a  small  piece  of  garlic,  two  ounces 
utter,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a 
m ;  put  the  lid  on  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  to  simmer 
'  gently  over  a  very  slow  firo,  until  the  onions  are 
e  done,  without  being  fried  brown :  four  yolks  of 
J  must  then  be  added  to  bind  the  onions  into  a  thick 
I  of  paste.  Meanwhile  your  cutlets  having  been  sea- 
jd  and  fried,  or  rather  sauteed,  as  it  would  be  most 
3erly  termed,  cover  the  one  side  of  each  cutlet  about 
'  an  inch  thick  with  the  preparation  of  onions,  &c. ; 
oth  the  surface  with  a  knife ;  egg  it  over  with  a 
ih;  sprinkle  fried  bread-crumbs  and  grated  Par- 
an  cheese,  mixed  in  equal  proportions  all  over  the 
ets ;  place  them  in  neat  order  on  a  buttered  sauta- 
;  add  a  spoonful  of  gravj'  by  way  of  moisture  under 
cutlets ;  push  them  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and 
in  hot,  dish  them  up  in  a  circle ;  garnish  their  centre 
1  potatoes  scooped  out  in  the  shape  of  small  balls  and 
1 ;  pour  some  good  gravy  round  the  base,  and  serve. 


THE  OOOK'B  OUIDS,   AMD 


;o.  601.— FILLETS  OF  HUTTON,  BOEBUGK  FASmOl 

Bemove  the  fillet  or  meaty  part  wholly  from  the  spa 
anes  of  a  loin  of  mutton;  and  then,  having  pa: 
way  all  the  fiEkt  and  sinew,  divide  it  across  in  two  eq 
>arts ;  again  sabdivide  these  lengthwise  each  into  1 
fillets ;  if  properly  cnt,  they  .will  not  reqniro  trinmd 
The  fillets  must  be  closely  larded,  and  pickled  for  em 
honrs  in  a  marinade,  No.  299 ;  and  afterwards  draii 
and  placed  in  rows  on  butter  in  a  santapan,  with  a 
of  their  clear  pickle,  and  set  in  a  sharp  oven  to  hake 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  when  done,  they  must 
salamandered  over,  (the  larding  quickly  run  down  oi 
the  firo  to  cause  the  fillets  to  absorb  all  their  cav] 
glazed,  and  dished  up  in  a  cirole,  garnished  with  Fren 
beans,  green  peas,  or  fried  potatoes,  sauced  with  chdrrei 
sauce,  No.  29,  and  served. 

No.  602.— FILLETS  OF  MUTTON  A  LA  JABDINIEBE 

These  are  prepared   as  indicated   in  the  preced 
number,  and  when  dished  up,  should  be  garnished  wi 
Jardiniere  in  the  centre,  and  some  brown  sauce  inc( 
rated  with  the  gravy  in  which  the  fillets  have 
braized  (and  freed  from  grease)  should  be  poured 
the  fillets. 

No.  603.— ESCALOPES  OF  MUTTON  WITH  FINE-F 

The  chump-end  of  a  loin  of  mutton  may  be  ti 
account  for  this  purpose,  by  first  cutting  off"  all  ^ 
in   thin   slices,  and   then  dividing  these   intc 
trimmed  collops,  and  placing  tliom  in  rows  in  a 
containing  an  ounce  of  dissolved  butter ;    se 
pepper  and  salt,  fry  them  quickly  over  a  brisl 
browned   on  both  sides,  then  add  a  tables^ 
flour,  Komo   chopped   mushrooms,  parsley  f 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  spoonful  of  catsuj 
of  stock  or  water;  stir  altogether  over  the 


HOn8CKnPSB*8  AKD  BUTLIE's  A88I8TAKT.  235 

minutes;  pile  up  the  escalopes  in  the  centre  of  the  dish ; 
ganush  Tonnd  with  potato  croquets  or  sippets  of  toasted 
bread,  and  serve. 

Na  6(H.— VEAL  OUTLETS  A  LA  FIKANOIERE. 

About  six  bones  of  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  will 

be  lequired  for  this  purpose ;  the  chine-boDC  must  first 

be  removed  with  a  smidl  saw,  and  also  the  upper  part 

of  the  cutlet  or  rib-bones,  leaving  the  bones  intended 

to  form  the  outlets  only  about  three  inches  long :  the 

cotletB  must   then   be  divided,  trimmed,  and   closely 

Uided.    Next,  garnish  the  bottom  of  a  l¥icandeau-pan 

(see  Adams'  Illustrations)  with  sliced  carrot,   onion, 

oelery,  a  garnished  &^ot  of  parsley,   and  an  onion 

stock  with  six  cloves ;  place  the  larded  cutlets  on  this 

W  of  v^etables,  with  their  bones  all  pointing  to  the 

oentre  of  the  pan;  moisten  with  stock  or  water,  just 

enough  to  reacn  up  to  the  edge  of  the  larding ;  cover 

with  a  buttered  round  of  paper;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire 

to  boil,  and  then  push  it  m  the  oven  to  braize  for  about 

an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  the  cutlets  frequently  with 

their  own  liquor ;  and  when  they  are  nearly  done,  sala- 

numder  (see  Adams'  Illustrations)  the  larding,  glaze  it, 

•nd  dish  up  the  cutlets  in  the  reversed  position — that  is, 

^th  the  bones  under,   thus  showing  the  larded  part 

^permost:  use  the  strained  stock  from  the  cutlets  to 

nike  the  sauce  for  the  Financi^re,  Ko.  10-i;   garnish 

and  sauce  the  entr^. 

No.  605.— VEAL  CUTLETS  A  LA  MAINTENON. 

These  may  be  cut  either  from  the  neck,  or  from  a 
pound  or  more  of  what  is  termed  veal  cutlet;  the  cutlets 
most  be  seasoned  and  fried  brown  on  both  sides,  and 
finished  with  fine-herbs,  &c.,  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  cutlets  k  la  Vicomtesse,  No.  598,  with  this  exception, 
that  instead  of  bread-crumbing  them,  they  are  to  be  en- 
cased in  papers,  as  follows :  viz., — take  as  many  sheets 
(tf  writing-paper  as  you  have  prepared  cutlets,  and  by  cut- 


236  THs  cook's  quids,  asd 

ting  off  the  outer  angles  with  scissoi'S,  give  them 
thing  of  a  heart-shape,  rememhering  that  they  mnsfcr  | 
sufficiently  large  to  enfold  the  outlets ;  oil  these  pa^Mr 
on  both  sides ;  place  a  cutlet  masked  with  a  sufficiozic^ 
of  its  sauce  so  as  entirely  to  cover  it  all  over  insido   ibe 
paper,  overlapping  it  with  the  upper  half,  and  "tiien 
neatly  and  tightly  fold  or  rather  twist  in  the  edges  of  Ibe 
paper  in  order  effectually  to  prevent  the  sauce  from 
escaping  while  the  cutlet  is  being  broiled.     About  i 
quarter  of  an  hour  before  sending  to  table,  place  ihe 
cutlets  on  a  baking-sheet  slightly  oUed,  push  &em  in  • 
rather  sharp  oven  to  remain  there  until  their  enveloptf 
become  lightly  browned,  and  the  cutlets  are  thoronj^ 
warmed ;  dish  them  up  with  fried  parsley  in  the  centre} 
and  serve.     These  cutlets  may  also  be  grilled. 

No.  606.— VEAL  CUTLETS  A  LA  RUSSE. 

These  cutlets  must  first  be  fried  on  both  sides,  efA 
cutlet  is  to  be  covered  on  one  side  only  with  a  pi** 
paration  made  with  horseradish,  &o.,  see  No.  92,  mwe 
with  three  sticks  of  horseradish  instead  of  one  as  therein 
stated,  the  preparation  to  be  laid  on  half  an  inch  thick, 
egged  over  and  crumbed  with  a  mixture  of  grated  cheese 
and  fried  bread-crumbs :  the  cutlets  are  to  be  placed  in 
a  circular  row  on  a  buttered  sautapan,  with  a  couple  of 
spoonfuls  of  gravy  under  them,  pushed  in  a  sharp  oven 
for  ten  minutes  to  make  them  perfectly  hot ;  dish  thea 
up,  garnish  the  centre  with  any  kind  of  dressed  vege- 
table ;  pour  some  thin  tomata  sauce  round  the  base  o^ 
the  entr^,  and  serve. 

No.  607.— SWEETBREADS  A  LA  TOULOUSE. 

Soak  the  sweetbreads  in  water  for  a  couple  of  houn  to 
extract  all  the  blood ;  parboil  them  for  ^ve  minutes  jnst 
to  set  them  firm,  and  after  being  cooled  in  water,  tzin 
and  lard  them  closely ;  place  them  in  a  deep  sautapin 
on  a  thin  bed  of  sliced  can-ot,  onion,  celery ;  moisten 
with  just  enough  stock  to  reach  up  to  the  conmienoO' 


HOUaMREBP«B*B  A]Bn>   BUTI.EB*8  ABSIBTAltT.  237 

t  of  iiie  larding,  push  them  in  a  rather  sharp  oven 
traiie  for  about  twenty-minntes,  basting  them  fre- 
ntlj  with  their  own  liqnor ;  and  when  done,  sala- 
dored,  and  glazed,  dish  them  up  against  a  pile  of 
quenelles,  placed  in  an  angular  form  by  forming 
angle  with  three,  and  placing  the  fourth  in  their 
tre;  garnish  round  the  sweetbreads  with  Toulouse 
mt,  No.  125,  and  serve. 

No.  608.— SWEETBREADS  A  LA  YILLEBOL 

'arboil  tlie  sweetbreads  for  ten  minutes,  with  a  little 
in  the  water,  and  when  done  and  cooled,  out  them 
dices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  trim  these  neatly 
bout  waste ;  dip  each  with  a  fork  in  some  stiffly-re- 
od  AUemande  sauce.  No.  17,  and  place  them  in  rows 
a  baking-sheet  upon  rough  ice  to  become  firmly  set ; 
y  must  now  be  egged,  crumbed,  placed  in  order  in  a 
ug-basket,  fried  in  hot  lard,  of  a  light-brown  colour, 
led  up  in  a  circular  row,  the  centre  garnished  with 
'  kind  of  dressed  vegetable,  some  thin  sauce  poured 
nd  the  base ;  then  send  to  table. 

No.  609.— TENDONS  OF  VEAL  AND  SPINACH. 

rhat  part  of  the  calf  which  is  called  tendons,  consists, 
point  of  &ct,  of  the  gristly  portion  of  the  breast-bone 
ich  has  not  yet  become  hardened  into  bone ;  this  is 
lated  towards  the  thick  edge  of  the  breast  of  veal. 
»r  having  first  removed  the  meat  from  the  tendons, 
them  straight  along  the  end  of  the  rib-bones, 
ving  the  flap  of  meat  on  to  the  ribs  :  next,  slice  off 
ih  portion  of  the  breast-bone  as  may  have  become 
med  into  bone,  divide  the  tendon  or  gristle  part  into 
lare  pieces  the  size  of  a  cutlet ;  place  these  in  a  stew- 
1  on  a  bed  of  carrots,  onions,  turnips,  celery,  garnished 
got  of  parsley,  six  cloves,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a 
le  salt ;  moisten  with  sufi&cient  stock  or  water  to  let 
m  swim ;  put  th*  lid  on,  and  set  them  to  bi-aize  very 
itly  on  a  Blow  fire  for  about  four  hours.    When  tho 


288  THB  oook's  auiDi^  ahd 

tendons  are  done  throngli,  which  will  be  peroepti 
by  ascertaining  that  their  gristle  has  become  lumi 
transparent  and  comparatively  soft  to  the  probe  of 
fork,  they  must  be  carefully  removed  wilJi  a  sntf 
skimmer,  one  by  one,  and  being  placed  between  tv 
earthen  dishes,  set  in  the  larder  to  become  partially  col 
in  order  that  they  may  be  neatly  trimmed,  placed  in 
sautapan  with  their  own  liquor  (previously  ireed  fro 
grease,  and  boiled  down  to  glaze).  Make  them  hot,  ic 
them  in  their  glaze ;  dish  them  up  in  a  circular  roi< 
garnish  the  centre  with  dressed  spinach ;  pour  the  r 
mainder  of  their  glaze  round  the  base,  and  serve. 

Note. — Tendons  of  veal  may  also  be  served  wi' 
stewed  peas,  or  any  other  vegetable  garnish. 

No.  610.— OUERIED  TENDONS  OP  VEAL. 

Braize  the  tendons  as  directed  in  the  preceding  cm 
and  use  their  stock  to  make  some  curry  sauce.  No.  8^ 
put  the  tendons  in  this  to  simmer  for  awhile ;  dish  tbfii 
up  with  fried  bacon  in  between  each  tendon ;  pour  tl 
sauce  over  the  entree,  and  serve  plain  boiled  rice  in 
dish  separately. 

No.  611.— LAMB  CUTLETS  A  LA  PRINCESSB. 

Trim  and  fry  the  cutlets  in  the  usual  manner;  ai 
when  become  partially  cold,  dip  each  cutlet  up  to  th 
bone,  in  some  stiffly-reduced  Allemande  sauce  strongl 
flavoured  with  mushrooms ;  each  cutlet  as  it  is  dippe 
to  be  afterwards  placed  flat  on  a  baking-sheet  upo 
rough  ice  to  set  the  sauce  quite  firm  on  the  cutlets ;  the 
are  then  to  be  egged,  crumbed,  fried  in  hot  lard,  an 
being  dished  up,  are  to  be  garnished  with  a  pur6e  ( 
green  asparagus,  or  asparagus  peas,  and  some  supr^n: 
or  any  other  white  sauce  poured  round  the  base. 


rowwmpKB'e  ash  sctlzb's  abbuiaiit. 
Ko.  SUL—LAUB  CUTLETS  A  LA  DUOHEBSK 


These  kre  prepared  in  the  first  instance  as  in  the  pre- 
iding  case,  and  are  to  be  dipped  in  D'nxelles  sauce, 
0. 75,  and  when  this  has  become  firmly  set  upon  them, 
tthem  be  egged,  crumbed,  Med,  and  dished  up  on  a 
^table  border  as  represented  in  the  woodcut;  the 
Dtre  to  he  garnished  with  a  pur^e  of  green  peas,  or  u 
idini4re,  and  some  supreme  sauce  poured  round  tho 
K. 

So.  613.-LAMB'B  BTTEETBBEADS  LABDED. 
These  are  prepared  and  served  in  the  manner  de- 
ribed  in  No.  607,  bearing  in  mind  that  being  smaUer, 
1  minutes'  braizing  will  suf&ce  to  do  them. 

No.  614.— LAMB'S  SWEETBREADS  SCOLLOPED. 
First  blanch — that  is,  parboil  the  lamb's  breads  for 
e  minutes  to  set  them  firm ;  drain  and  put  tbem  on  a 
ite  until  cold,  slice  them  in  small  ecollops,  fry  them 
Ih  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sautapan,  season  with 
bneg,  pepper  and  salt,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ; 
ik»  in  a  tahlespoonful  of  flour,  and  some  sliced  buttoo 


Sio 


TSB  ODOx's  attwa,  amd 


.  with  a  gill  of  omm,  mo 
whole  eentlj  over  the  fire  to  simmer  for  a  few  in 
then  add  two  raw  jolkB  of  e^s;  mix  well  and  ; 
and  OBO  this  to  fill  a  vol-an-vmt,  rice  horder, 
■ome  small  scollop-shells  or  paper  cases ;  the  lat 
to  be  covered  over  with  Med  breadrcromba,  an 
being  made  hot  in  the  oven,  are  to  be  ^f^l""*" 
unless  already  sufficiently  coloured. 

Ko.  6U.-SUFBKME  OF-  FOWL  A  LA.  BOTAU 


Trim  the  fillets  of  two  fowls — ^whioh,  by  maUi 
of  the  reversed  sldna  of  the  large  fiUels  to  envelo 
minion  or  smaller  ones,  will  prodoce  eight  fillets; 
are  to  be  placed  in  a  santapan  in  clarified  I 
seasoned  with  a  little  salt,  and  covered  with  a  rot 
buttered  paper;  and  about  ten  minutes  before  d 
time,  are  to  be  placed  on  the  fire  just  the  time  Te< 
to  set  them, — tlut  is,  as  soon  as  the  nnder  part 
Wets  begins  to  whit«n,  they  must  be  removed  fri 
fire,  and  being  tamed,  and  replaced  on  the  fire 
most — as  soon  as  thej'  are  ako  whitened  on  tha 
be  drained,  trimmed  and  dished  up  on  a  bon 
vegetables.  No.  523  (already  turned  oat  on  its  d 
ring  of  truffle  or   tongue    placed  on   each  fills 


ROCrSJUUBlPMB's  AKD  BUTLVB's  A8SI8TANT.  241 

oentze  of  the  entr^  filled  with  a  Mao^doine  of  veee- 
tables,  No.  101,  and  some  supreme  poured  round  die 


Ko.  6ie.-FILLETS  OF  FOWLS  WITH  ASPARAGUS  PEAS. 

Trim  the  fillets  of  fowls,  and  finish  them  as  in  the 
prBoeding  ease;  and  when  done,  roll  them  in  a  little 
Boprdme  sauoe;  dish  them  np  alternately  with  similar 
pieces  of  red  tongue ;  fill  the  centre  of  ^e  entree  with 
ii^Bsed  asparagus  peas ;  pour  some  of  the  sauce  round 
^  base,  and  serve. 

No.  617.— BSOALOPES  OF  FOWL  AND  OUOUMBEB. 

Bemove  the  fillets  from  two  fowls,  simmer  them  in  a 
little  clarified  butter  and  salt,  until  they  become  white 
and  are  done  through ;  they  must  then  be  drained,  cut 
iiito  collops,  put  into  some  ready-prepared  cucumber 
^goiit,  No.  109,  made  hot,  and  piled  up  in  the  centre  of 
^e  dish,  garnished  roimd  with  fieurons  or  potato  oro- 
quets,  and  served. 

No.  618.— CHIOKBN  OUTLETS  A  LA  DAUPHINB. 

These  are  made  with  the  legs  of  fowls — the  fillets  of 
^hich  have  been  used  for  preparing  a  supreme;  and 
thus,  that  entree  becomes  less  expensive.  The  legs 
being  cut  from  the  carcasses  of  the  fowls,  must  be  freed 
fe)m  the  thigh-bone,  leaving  the  leg — or  what  is  termed 
the  drumstiok-bone — in  its  place;  these  legs  of  fowls 
must  next  be  gently  braized  in  some  seasoned  stock 
^tQ  quite  tender,  and  then  taken  up,  placed  in  probs 
between  two  dishes,  and  when  quite  cold,  trimmed  in 
the  form  of  cutlets,  dipped  in  some  reduced  AUemande 
■vice,  and  placed  on  a  baking-sheet  upon  rough  ice  to 
heoome  set  firm;  they  must  then  be  egged,  crumbed, 
Ued  in  hot  lard,  and  when  drained  and  dibhed  up, 
SEiniished  with  any  description  of  dressed  vegetable* 
Siloed  round  witib  Bechamel,  and  served. 


Ka.ea.—iM3B  or  voms  a  la  wsLUKonm. 

In  this  tatse  also  the  legs  of  fowls  iriioee  fflleta  hnt 
klrotdj  been  nsad  will  serre  the  ptupoee :  &ta  lio, 
wingB,  and  bftck-bones  shonld  be  eepmted  aad  jti^ij 
trimmed,  placed  in  a  deep  aantapui  widi  two  tUile- 
moonfiile  f^  salad-oil,  a  eprig  of  flijme.  one  hsj^Mt^  ■ 
doTB  of  garlic,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  Vrj  the  Mi» 
bera  of  fowls  over  a  ahatp  fire  until  ihej  an  dme  tf  > 
light-brown  coloor,  and  thai,  after  Tmumiw  the  h^ 
iMf  and  tbrme,  ahi^e  in  two  taUeBpocnfals  of  fioor.iM 
one  of  Crose  and  Blackwell's  Indjan  drntnee ;  gtir  d 
together,  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  good  gmrj. 
timmer  the  whcde  wrcr  &e  fira  for  tm  minntBa,  iM 
serre. 
Ho.  62IL-eiUCAS8£B  OP  OffiOKEHB  A  lA  HATELOO. 


A  oonple  of  chickens  are  required  for  this  d —  ■  -,  j 
the;  have  been  drawn  and  singed,  remove  the  legs  0 
wings,  and  then,  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  slit  t^  iki> 
of  the  breast,  spread  it  off  the  fillets,  and  remore  th* 
with  the  pinioD-boae  left  on  them.  £ach  fillet  nmtls 
trinuned.  then  closely  larded,  and  placed  in  a  ImI  | 


HovBEKKVBB'a  HID  butubb's  absistakt.         248 

II  spread  witli  butter,  and  moifitened  with  a  little 
Dok;  the  fi>ur  minion  fillete  should  be  decorated 
agae«  tamed  round  in  a  ring,  and  set  in  clari- 
ter  in  another  small  8auti^>an : — ^the  legs,  wings, 
four  halves  of  the  back-bones  must  be  put  in  a 
i  with  sliced  onion,  canot,  celery,  a  garnished 
>f  parsley,  a  bit  of  mace,  peppercorns  and  salt. 
I  with  a  quart  of  good  stock;  boil  gently  for 
minutes ;  strain  this  stock  into  a  sfcewpan  con- 
two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  same  of  flour  well 
I  together,  and  a  handful  of  peelings  of  clean 
oms;  stir  this  sauce  over  the  fire  to  boil  for 
mixmtes ;  then  add  a  leason  of  four  yolks  of  eggs 
f  a  gill  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg  and  lemon- 
ad  a  good  pinch  of  sugar ;  stir  the  sauce  again 
b  fire  merely  to  set  the  leason,  without  allowing 
»il ;  and  strain  it  through  a  pointed  tin  strainer 
ams'  Illustrations),  on  to  the  trimmed  legs,  dec, 
chickens,  already  contained  in  a  small  stewpan ; 
)w  button  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  cocks'  combs, 
twenty  minutes  before  dinner-time,  warm  the 
e  without  boiling ;  neatly  arrange  the  members 
le  on  the  dish;  dispose  the  larded  fillets  and 
)  small  decorated  fillets  (previously  braized  and 
in  symmetrical  order  on  the  top  of  the  entree, 
with  groups  of  the  truffles,  mushrooms,  and 
3ombs,  as  exemplified  in  the  annexed  woodcut, 
ve. 

Na  621.— CHICKEa^S  A  LA  INKERMANN. 

ap  two  chickens  into  members  or  joints, — that 
le  the  legs,  wings,  and  fillets  with  the  pinion-bones 
the  breasts  and  back-bones  having  been  divided 
L  two  pieces ;  let  these  be  trimmed,  removing  the 
ones  from  the  legs ;  fry  the  whole  in  a  deep  sauta- 
h  half  a  gill  of  oil,  a  bay-leaf  and  thyme,  a  clove 
LC,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt ;  and  when  done 
ht-brown  oolour,  remove  the  bay -leaf  and  thyme, 

B  2 


244  THX  CX>0K'8  SmBK,  AMD 

pour  off  the  oil,  add  four  ounces  d  Crosse  asid  Bh 
well's  conserve  of  tomatas,  an  ounce  of  glace,  a  spoos 
of  Captain  Wliite's  curry  paste,  and  two  glasses  of  w: 
wine ;  simmer  all  together  over  the  fire  for  ten  minn 
dish  up  in  a  pile,  garnish  with  fried  ^gs  and  si 
pieces  of  ham;  pour  the  sauce  over  tiie  entrfe, 
serve. 

No.  622.— CHICKENS  A  LA  TAKTABK. 

Draw,  singe,  trim,  and  split  the  diickens  into  hal^ 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them  in  a  saotK 
with  butter  until  done  on  both  sides;  they  most  ti 
be  put  in  press  between  two  dishes  until  half  odd 
when  they  are  to  be  e^ed  and  crumbed  all  oi 
sprinkled  with  clarified  butter,  and  crumbed  over  agi 
About  twenty  minutes  before  dinner-time,  broil 
halves  of  chicken  over  a  clear  fire,  of  a  light-gok 
brown,  place  them  on  a  dish  containing  cold  Tu 
sauce,  No.  38 ;  garnish  round  with  pickles,  and  serve 

Note. — All  kinds  of  meats  or  fish  prepared  as  ab 
are  excellent  when  served  as  herein  indicated. 

No.  623.— GBILLED  FOWL  WITH  PDBSE  0? 

MUSHBOOMa 

fiemove  the  legs,  or  rather  the  feet,  from  a  fowl;  lb 
the  drumsticks  inside,  and  split  it  down  the  bai 
spread  it  open ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  it  i 
covered  pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  set  it  to 
slowly  over  a  moderate  heat ;  and  when  done  thron 
and  of  a  light-brown  colour,  let  it  be  glazed  and  pla 
on  some  pur^e  of  mushrooms,  and  served. 

The  pur^  of  mushrooms  is  prepared  as  foUcr 
viz.,^-cnop  fine  a  good  handful  of  dean  mushroo 
and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  hnl 
pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  stir 
over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  then  add  the  on 
of  a  French  roll  soaked  in  milk  and  a  gill  of  crei 
iixs  all  together  over  the  fire  to  boil  for  ten  mini] 


UBKKEIVBB'S  Ain>  BUTLVRS  A88I8TANT.  246 

ab  the  pur^e  through  a  tammy  or  neve,  and 
small  stewpan  for  use. 

.24.— BOILED  FOWLS  A  LA  CARDINAL. 

all  the  breast-bone  from  two  chickens ;  stnfi 
chicken  or  veal  forcemeat,  No.  185 ;  truss 
*  boiling ;  envelope  them  in  buttered  papers 
ith  string ;  boil  ttiem  for  about  twenty-five 
lore  or  less,  according  to  their  size ;  and 
),  remove  the  strings,  dish  them  up,  garnish 
ated  quenelles  and  truffles,  pour  some  cardinal 
62,  over  the  chickens,  and  serve. 

— OmOKENS  OB  FOWLS  A  LA  BOMAINE. 

ro  small  chickens  as  for  boiling,  and  put  them 
m  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  bay-leaf  and  thyme, 
)f  salad-oil,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt;  cover 
an,  and  set  it  over  a  sloMr  fire  to  simmer 
ing  care  to  turn  the  chickens  over  frequently, 
)lour  them  equally  of  a  light-brown  all  over 
.  when  done,  remove  the  bay-leaf  and  thyme ; 
le  oil ;  add  some  conserve  of  tomatas,  a  piece 
,  glass  of  madeira,  some  truffles  and  the  juice 
q;  simmer  altogether  over  the  fire  for  ten 
iish  up  the  chickens  with  the  truffles  and 
serve  dressed  macaroni  separately. 

BOUDINS  OF  PHEASANT  A  LA  RICHELIEU. 

'  all  the  flesh  from  a  pheasant,  and  use  it  to 
•me  forcemeat  as  described  in  No.  185,  and 
»y  incorporating  therewith  about  two  table- 
)f  brown  pur^e  of  onions ;  use  the  carcass  of 
nt  to  prepare  some  Eichelieu  sauce  as  shown 
.  Roll  out  the  forcemeat  with  flour  on  the 
le  form  of  oval  cutlets,  measuring  about  two 
f  inches  long  by  one  and  a  half  wide  and  a 
r  an  inch  thick;  and  as  you  shape  these 
rop  them  carefully  into  some  nearly  boiling 


¥ 


3U  THM  cook's  aUIDM,  AKD 

wfttor-with  aalt, — remembering  that  th^  iinntBotliidl, 
u  tliat  would  spoil  them  in  a  measore; — vfaeo  doBSi 
drain  the  boudins  on  a  cloth  until  cold,  and  then  ifin 
egging  them  over,  bread-ommb  and  fry  tiiem  in  olui&d 
butter  in  a  aantapan ;  and  nhen  done,  and  dished  api 
sauoe  them  with  the  Biohelieu  soiiioo  prepared  w  isdf 
oated  above. 

No.  627.— BOUDINS  OF  FOWL  A  LA  LTJCDLLDS. 


Witli  all  the  meaty  part  of  a  fowl,  nrepare  aon* 
forcemeat  be  directed  in  No.  185 ;  and  when  finialwi 
incorporate  therewith,  two  spoonfuls  of  piir£e  of  mo^- 
rooms,  and  use  this  to  fonu  some  qneueUes  with  tabl^ 
spoons,  filling  the  centre  of  each  quenelle  with  sow' 
pellets  of  pnr£e  of  trufQes ;  the  quenelles  are  to  ^ 
poached  in  the  asnal  way  in  boiling  water,  and  wli* 
done,  are  to  be  drained,  and  dished  np  in  a  or&ostadetf 
represented  in  the  annexed  woodcut ;  some  Allsuun* 
saaoe  is  to  be  poured  over  the  qaenellee,  and  «  had^ 
of  tmfBea  placed  round  the  base. 

No.  628.— BOTmiNS  OF  OBOUSE  A  LA  STANLIT. 
Kepaie  aome  fbroemeat  irith  a  couple  of  grooH  " 


■OUSXKUPIB'b  AMD  JTOTLIB'S  ABSZeTAKT.  S47 

lireotel  in  No.  185,  reserving  the  carcasses  to  make 
KHM  salmis  sauce,  No.  68.  Finish  the  foroemeat  by 
iioarparBting  therewith  two  spoonfuls  of  stiffly-reduced 
nlsus  sauoe ;  form  the  boudins  with  two  tablespoons — 
Atroduoing  small  pellets  of  croquet  preparation,  No.  31 5, 
imposed  of  truffle,  tongue,  and  mushrooms,  seasoned 
^th  chopped  chives;  and  when  the  boudins  have 
won  poacned,  drained,  and  become  cold,  they  are  to  be 
Basked  over  with  some  reduced  salmis  sauce  finished 
nrith  three  yolks  of  eggs,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in 
iiot  lard ;  they  are  then  to  be  dished  up  with  a  ragofit 
composed  of  artichoke  bottoms,  and  the  remainder  of 
iB  salmis  sauce  is  to  be  poured  round  the  base. 

No.  629.— QUENELLES  OF  FOWL  A  LA  SUPREME. 

^  Prepare  some  chicken  forcemeat  with  the  fiesh  of  a 
Wl,  as  indicated  in*  No.  185,  and  finish  it  by  incor 
^orating  therewith  two  spoonfuls  of  good  Allcmande 
Mce,  No.  17  :  with  two  tablespoons  form  this  forcemeat 
uto  quenelles,  and  poach  them  in  the  ordinary  way ; 
^hen  done,  dish  them  up  in  a  circle ;  pour  some  su- 
)reme  sauce,  No.  15,  over  and  round  them,  and  garnish 
iie  centre  with  green  peas,  or  asparagus  peas,  MacMoino, 
fuffles,  mushrooms,  <fec. 

No.  630.— PHEASANT  A  LA  ST.  GEORGE. 

Divide  a  pheasant  into  members  or  joints,  making 
wo  fillets  with  the  pinion-bone  loft  on ;  the  legs  to  be 
iivided,  making  drumstick  and  thigh-joints ;  the  back 
>nd  breast  to  be  cut  each  in  two  pieces.  Fry  these  in  a 
tewpan  with  a  little  oil,  garlic,  thyme,  bay -leaf,  chopped 
aoshrooms,  truffles,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  over  a 
barp  fire  until  half  done ;  then  add  half  a  gill  of  any 
^d  of  thick  sauce,  and  the  jiiico  of  half  a  lemon 
K)il  the  whole  quickly  over  the  firo  for  five  minutes  to 
ednoe  the  sauce,  tossing  or  moving  the  pan  the  whole 
^  to  prevent  the  pheasant  from  attaching  and  bum- 
%    You  then  remove  the  thyme  and  bay-leaf;  take 


248  THE  OOOX'tB  CFUIDI.  AHD 

tip  the  joints  of  pheasant  on  to  a  flat  disli ;  add  tbret 
yolks  of  eggs  to  the  sauce ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  qudoUj 
so  as  to  set  the  sauce  smoothly,  and  use  it  to  mask  the 
joints  evenly  with  a  covering  of  it  about  the  thidoMM 
of  a  penny-piece,  and  set  them  to  become  cold.  A 
quarter  of  an  hour  before  dinner-time,  dip  each  joint  d 
pheasant  separately  in  some  frying  batter,  No.  290,  and 
fry  them  in  very  hot  lard,  of  a  light  colour,  and  JW- 
fectly  crisp  ;  dish  them  up ;  garnish  with  tomatas  an  gi** 
tin ;  pour  some  truffle  sauce  round  the  base,  and  seivOt 

No.  631.-PHEASANT  A  LA  GUDEWIFB. 

Truss  a  pheasant  as  for  boiling,  and  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  half  a  pound  of  ham  cut  in  square  pieces;  fiy 
together  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  the  pheaBant  is 
browned  all  over,  add  four  sliced  Spanish  onions,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  Chutnee ;  put  the  lid  on,  aod 
set  the  whole  to  simmer  gently  for  about  three-qnarton 
of  an  hour,  by  which  time  the  pheasant  will  he  doaw 
and  the  onions  reduced  to  a  pulp ;  place  the  pheasant 
on  its  dish ;  stir  the  onions  on  the  fire  to  give  tiie  sauce 
some  consistency  by  further  reduction  if  needed,  and 
then  pour  it  over  the  pheasant,  and  serve. 

No.  632.— SALMIS  OF  PHEASANT. 

Eoast  off  a  pheasant,  and  when  done,  set  it  to  become 
partially  cold ;  it  must  then  be  cut  up  in  members  or 
joints,  and  divested  of  its  skin,  neatly  trimmed,  and 
dished  up;  having  used  the  trimmings  to  make  some 
salmis  sauce,  No.  68,  add  either  mushrooms  or  tnifflcSi 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  joints  of  pheasants. 

Note, — Salmis  of  all  kinds  of  game  are  prepared  alike, 
the  trimmings  being  used  for  making  the  sauce. 

No.  633.— PARTRroGES  A  LA  BEARNAISB. 

Truss  the  partridges  as  for  boiling;  fry  them  in  • 
stewpan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  a  clove  of  garte 
and  a  little  salt ;  and  when  browned,  add  enough  oo» 


HOUtaKEIPmt'H  AMD  B0TIiIB*8  ASSIBTAKT.  24il 

irve  of  tomatas  (Crosse  and  Blackwell's)  to  famish 
offioient  sauoe  for  the  dish,  an  ounce  of  glaze,  two 
iJasBes  of  white  wine,  and  a  good  tectspoonful  of  sweet 
Bd  %Mmish  pepper ;  simmer  the  whole  together  for  ten 
uniites,  and  serve.  Olives  may  he  added. 
N&te, — ^All  kinds  of  game  are  excellent  when  dressed 
I  above. 

Ho.  634.— STEWED  PARTRIDGES,  CELERY  SAUCE. 

Trass  and  boil  the  partridges  in  some  stock  or  water, 
3a8oned  with  the  usual  complement  of  carrot,  onion,  &c,, 

little  pepper  and  salt;  use  their  liquor  to  prepare 
}m6  celery  sauce.  No.  119;  and  when  about  to  send 
)  table,  make  the  partridges  hot  in  a  little  of  their 
^Tior  reserved  for  the  purpose ;  dish  them  up  with  the 
nr^  of  celery  poured  over  them,  and  garnished  roand 
ith  potato  croquets. 

Noie. — Stewed  pheasants,  grouse,  or  rabbits  may  also 
6  served  as  indicated  above ;  and  Soubise  or  onion 
iTioe  would  be  equally  suitable  for  the  purpose. 

No.  635.— GROUSE  CUTLETS  A  LA  GLENGARRY. 

Young  birds  only  are  fit  for  this  purpose ;  they  must 
e  drawn,  the  legs  cut  off,  the  drumsticks  tucked  inside, 
^nged,  and  split  in  halves :  they  must  then  be  seasoned 
'ith  pepper  and  salt,  and  fried  in  a  sautapan  with  a 
iece  of  butter  until  Ibrowned  on  both  sides ;  shake  in 

little  flour,  add  a  piece  of  glaze,  and  a  spoonful  of 
^de  sauce ;  simmer  together  over  the  fire  for  ten 
iinutes,  and  serve. 

Note. — All  kinds  of  young  game  form  a  most  delicious 
ish  when  cooked  in  this  unpretending  way. 

fo.  636.~FILLETS  OF  PARTRIDGES  A  LA  THACKERAY 

Take  out  the  fillets  of  two  partridges ;  and,  having 
amoved  the  thin  skin  which  covers  them,  let  them  be 
Uttmered  in  a  sautapan  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
^t,  until  they  are  become  set  firm  without  bemg  quite 


S50  TBM  €»ot^n  eunm,  jam 

dime  thoron^ ;  ihej  are  iheta  to  be  nmsked  all  < 
both  flidea  with  D^UxeUes  sauce,  Ko  75,  and  aa  i 
the  saace  has  beoome  set  quite  fijm  on  tiie  fillet 
ahonld  be  egged  and  cnnnbed,  and  placed  carala 
wire  frying'basket,  to  be  fried  in  hot  laid ;  as  i 
ihey  have  acqniied  a  light-brown  colour,  di^  t 
in  a  circle ;  garnish  with  small  qnenelles  made  n 
meat  from  the  legs  of  the  partridges,  No.  185,  ai 
ronnd  the  base  of  the  entr^  some  salmis  saace, 
made  from  the  carcasses. 

Note. — The  fillets  of  chickens,  pigeons,  or  any 
game  maj  be  advantageonsly  dressed  in  the  sami 

No.  637.— FBICAS8EE  OF  BABBIT. 

Skin,  draw,  wash  and  wipe  thoronghl  j  clean  i 
rabbit  in  good  condition ;  and,  having  cnt  it  intc 
place  these  in  a  stewpan  with  two  onnces  of 
pepper  and  salt;  set  this  on  the  fire  to  simmer, 
it  frequently  to  prevent  the  rabbit  from  aoqnirj 
colonr ;  and  as  soon  as  the  pieces  are  become  » 
shake  in  two  onnces  of  flonr,  two  dozen  peeled 
onions,  and  as  many  mnshrooms;  toss  all  to, 
moisten  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  go 
pint  of  sfock  or  water ;  stir  the  fricassee  over  1 
till  it  boils,  and  set  it  by  the  side  to  oontinne 
simmering  for  abont  half  an  hour ;  and  then,  a 
moving  the  skin  and  grease,  boil  down  the  t 
necessary  to  give  it  consi8ten<y ;  mix  in  a  le 
three  yolks  of  eggs  and  half  a  gul  of  cream ;  seas 
a  little  nntmeg,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  c 
and  the  jnice  of  half  a  lemon ;  be  careful  while 
the  leason  in  the  sance  over  the  fire  that  it  d 
ooil,  for  that  would  cause  it  to  curdle  and  deo 
and  thus  in  a  great  measure  spoil  the  dish. 

No.  638.— BABBIT  A  LA  TABTABE. 

Having  cleansed  the  rabbit,  split  the  under  pa3 
▼ent,  run  the  knife  through  the  sinews  under  the 


HOUSXKSBFXB'S  AKD  BUTUBB'S  ASSI8TA1?T.  251 

open  the  breast  so  as  to  laj  the  rabbit  out  flat,  and  ufie 
two  email  wooden  skewers  to  secure  its  shape ;  it  must 
then  be  lightly  fried  in  a  santapan  with  butter,  pepper 
and  Bait,  until  three  parts  done  ;  and  as  soon  as  become 
partially  cold,  it  is  to  be  egged  and  crumbed,  sprinkled 
over  with  clarified  butter,  and  crumbed  again.  Twenty 
minntes  before  sending  to  table  push  the  rabbit  in  a 
ahaip  oven  to  colour  it  of  a  golden  brown,  and  when 
done  through,  dish  it  up  on  some  Tartare  sauce,  No.  38 ; 
garnish  round  with  Piccallila,  and  serve. 

No.  639.— BOILED  BABBIT  AND  BACON. 

When  rabbits  are  intended  to  be  boiled,  they  should 
be  first  well  washed,  and  then  soaked  in  milk  and  water 
for  a  couple  of  hours ;  indeed,  hares,  leverets,  and  rabbits 
when  treated  in  this  way  for  roasting  are  considerablj- 
unproved  by  being  thus  rendered  more  juicy  and  tender. 
Triss  the  rabbit  with  two  wooden  skewers  and  string, 
80  as  to  secure  it  in  shape,  boil  it  in  just  water  enough 
tooover  it;  season  with  carrot,  onion,  garnished  faggot 
of  parsley,  a  bit  of  mace,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  little 
Bait:  about  three-quarters  to  an  hour  will  suffice  to  cook 
an  ordinary-sized  rabbit ;  and  when  done  and  dished 
np,  pour  either  onion  sauce  or  celery  sauce,  No.  119, 
over  it;  garnish  it  round  with  small  strippets  of  fried 
W)n,  and  serve. 

No.  640.— RABBITS  WITH  FINE-HERBS. 

Cnt  up  the  rabbit  into  joints  by  cutting  off"  the  legs  and 
slioulderB ;  divide  the  back  into  four  or  five  equal  parts, 
and  split  the  head  into  halves ;  fry  all  these  in  a  santapan 
^th  butter  until  they  are  browned  all  over ;  shake  in  a 
good  tablespoonful  of  flour,  some  chopped  mushrooms, 
parsley,  and  shalots ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  the 
jnice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  glass  of  sherry  and  a  gill  of 
good  gravy :  toss  the  whole  together  over  the  fire  to 
^iQer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 


252  THV  OOQXfs  QUIDS.  AMD 

No.  641.— RABBIT  FBIED  IN  BATTER. 

Cnt  up  a  rabbit  into  joints,  and  put  them  in  a  hasan 
with  a  sliced  onion,  some  sprigs  of  parsley,  thyme  and 
bay-leaf,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonM  of  oil, 
and  a  tablespoonfiil  of  Crosse  and  Blackwell's  lavigotta 
vinegar ;  allow  the  pieces  of  rabbit  to  remain  in  tiiis 
seasoning  for  three  hours,  tossing  it  over  occasionally  M 
as  to  admit  of  its  becoming  thoroughly  impregnated  widi 
its  aroma.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  dinner-time,  dip 
each  piece  of  rabbit  in  some  frying  batter.  No.  290,  and 
drop  each  successively  into  some  veiy  hot  lard,  io  be 
fried  of  a  light  colour ;  and  when  the  pieces  are  become 
crisp,  drain  and  dish  them  up  with  fried  parsley,  and 
serve  maitre-d^hotel  sauce,  No.  32,  separatel3\ 

No.  642.— CURRIED  RABBIT  AND  RICR 

Cttt  a  rabbit  into  joints,  and  fry  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  half  a  pound  of  streaky  bacon  cut  in  sqnare 
pieces ;  the  bacon  should  be  fned  first,  then  add  tb^ 
rabbit,  and  when  all  is  browned,  add  six  onions  sliced 
very  thin,  and  two  sour  apples  peeled  and  sliced;  sea- 
son with  a  clove  of  garlic  and  salt,  and  a  large  tabl^ 
spoonful  of  Captain  W  hite's  curry  paste ;  put  the  lid 
on  and  set  the  whole  to  stew  very  gently  over  a  slo^ 
fire  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour :  when  the 
rabbit  is  done  quite  tender,  remove  the  pieces  into 
another  stewpan ;  shake  in  a  little  flour,  add  a  piece  w 
glaze  and  a  gill  of  stock  or  water  to  the  onions,  Ac., 
and  stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  rab  it 
through  a  tammy  or  hair  sieve ;  pour  it  to  the  pieces 
of  rabbits,  warm  altogether ;  dish  up  neatly,  and  aerve 
plain  rice  separately. 

No.  643.— WOODCOCKS  A  LA  CHASSEUR. 

Truss  and  roast  the  woodcocks  before  a  brisk  &* 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  and  then  take  them  up  on  tba 
dish :  cut  up  the  birds  in  the  usual  manner,  by  making 


houseksspeb's  Jdun  butlbs's  assistant.         25d 

illets  with  the  pinions  left  on,  two  legs,  the  breast, 
lie  back;  the  skin  must  be  left  on,  and  the  mem- 
should  be  but  slightly  trimmed.  Eemove  the 
ids  from  the  trail  (which  consists  of  the  whole  of 
iside  of  the  woodcocks),  and  put  it  in  a  mortar  with 
all  pat  of  butter,  a  small  piece  c  f  shalot,  pepper 
3alt;  pound  altogether;  rub  it  thiough  a  sieve  on 
plate,  and  use  this  to  spread  on  the  upper  side 
of  some  heart-shaped  cr6utons  or  pieces  of  fried 
I,  and  set  them  aside  for  use.  Put  the  trimmings 
stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  wine,  four  chopped 
»ts,  a  small  sprig  of  thj^me,  an  ounce  of  glaze,  a 
glassful  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  the  juice  of  half 
Qon ;  boil  this  for  ten  minutes ;  strain  it  on  to  the 
«  of  woodcocks ;  warm  them  without  boiling ;  dish 
place  the  crdutons  round  the  entree ;  pour  the  sauce 
it,  and  serve.  The  croutons  should  of  course 
lade  hot,  by  pushing  them  in  the  oven  for  three 
ites. 
te. — Snipes  are  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

No.  644.-SNIPES  A  LA  BONNE-BOUCHE. 

►ast  off  four  snipes  under-done,  and  set  them  aside 
k  dish.  Prepare  a  small  quantity  of  forcemeat, 
188,  using  about  six  ounces  of  fowls'  livers  for  the 
ose  ;  and  when  ready,  roll  out  one-half  of  the 
meat  with  flour  on  the  table  in  the  form  of  a  thick 
,  and  twirl  this  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish  in  a 
)lete  circle ;  flatten  it  all  rouud  slightly  with  the 
lb  to  give  it  a  level  surface  ;  and  then,  after  split- 
the  snipes,  and  covering  the  inside  part  of  each 
a  coating  of  the  forcemeat  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
:,  dish  them  up  in  a  row  on  the  circular  border 
rcemeat ;  cover  the  whole  surface  with  a  thin  coat- 
f  the  forcemeat ;  smooth  it  over  with  a  knife  dipped 
3t  water ;  place  a  round  of  buttered  paper  on  the 
push  the  entree  in  a  brisk  oven  for  about  twenty- 
minutes  to  bake  it^  and  when  done  thrcugh,  absoi*b 


254  TBM  0008!%  ODIDS,  ABB 


muy  gresse  wiiic^  may  have  oosed  out  with  a 
pour  flcxme  pdzigneiix  or  trofBe  sanoe  over  tb 


No.  645.— WILD  FOWL  A  Ul  GHAfiSEUI 

This  dish  is  eaten  in  greatest  perfection,  n 
pared — or  n£her  finished — on  the  dinner-tal) 
liie  wild  fowl — of  whichever  kind  it  may  co 
imsted  rather  nnder-done  before  a  brisk  c 
be  freqnently  basted  with  butter  while  roasti 
as  soon  as  done,  let  it  be  sent  to  table  with  ri( 
gravy :  on  the  dinner-table — close  to  the  carver 
be  placed  a  deep  silver  dish  on  a  spirit-of-win 
containing  two  glasses  of  port  wine,  one  of  cavi 
the  jnice  of  a  lemon,  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  a 
cayenne ;  cnt  np  the  wild  fowl,  place  the  si 
joints  in  this ;  add  the  gravy,  stir  altogether,  i 
round  for  the  guests  to  help  themselves. 

No.  646 -WILD  FOWL,  AMERICAN  PASffl 

These  are  prepared  and  finished  as  directe 
foregoing  case,  with  the  addition  of  some  blacl 
jelly. 

No.  647,— CIVET  OF  LEVERET. 

Cut  up  a  leveret  into  joints,  and  put  them  on 
divide  half  a  pound  of  streaky  bacon  (pi 
trimmed  and  soaked  in  water)  into  inohnsquar 
and  having  fried  these  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  ] 
leveret  and  fry  them  brown;  shake  in  four  o 
flour ;  moisten  with  a  bottle  of  French  red  win" 
per  dozen ;  add  half  a  pint  of  button  onions, 
equal  quantity  of  mushrooms,  a  garnished  i 
parsley,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  the  civet  on  the 
it  boils,  and  set  it  by  the  side  to  continue  gei 
mering  until  the  pieces  of  leveret  are  tender; 
the  scum ;  dish  up  the  civet ;  reduce  the  sauce 
■ary ;  pour  it  over  the  entree,  and  serve. 


BOUflULXJEPU'S  AMD  BUTUK'S  AflSISTAKT.  266 


Ko.  648.~JTIGG£D  HABE. 

Parboil  a  pound  of  streaky  bacon  for  twenty  minutes 
to  extract  the  ealt ;  cut  it  into  inch  squares ;  fry  these 
hi  a  stewpan,  then  add  a  hare  out  into  joints ;  fry  these 
brown,  shake  in  six  ounces  of  flour,  moisten  with  a 
^wt  of  stock  or  water,  two  glasses  of  port  wine,  and 
%Hko  quantity  of  catsup ;  add  eight  rather  small  onions, 
E^  poond  of  the  red  pe^  of  carrots  cut  into  pieces  of 
ikioQt  an  inch  square  and  neatly  shaped,  half  a  pound 
of  mushrooms,  a  garnished  faggot  of  parsley,  pepper 
^d  salt;  stir  altc^gether  over  the  fire  till  it  boils,  and 
then  set  it  by  the  side  to  simmer  until  the  pieces  of 
^te  are  tender ;  remove  the  scum,  pour  off  the  sauce 
iato  another  stewpan  to  be  further  reduced  by  boiling  if 
li^ed,  to  give  it  sufi^ient  consistency,  and  strain  it 
Dwk  to  the  jugged  hare.  Just  before  sending  to  table, 
^d  a  glass  of  port  wine  and  four  ounces  of  currant 
Wj'f  make  hot,  and  serve. 


No.  649.— BAKON  OF  HABE,  GEBMAN  FASHION. 

A  baron  of  hare  consists  of  .the  hind-quarters  and 
wins,  cut  across  just  close  to  the  shoulder-blades. 
^^  after  removing  the  thin  pellide  or  skin  which 
<5over8  the  loins  and  the  upper  part  of  the  thighs, 
8kuld  be  closely  larded,  and  placed  in  a  deep  sauta- 
I*n  with  a  pint  of  sour  cream  and  a  glass  of  vinegar, 
J^d  seasoned  with  a  little  salt;  it  should  then  be  put 
111  the  oven  to  bake  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  houi, 
Wong  care  to  baste  it  frequently  with  the  cream,  &c. ; 
Mid  when  done  tender,  pass  the  red-hot  salamander  over 
the  larding  to  render  it  crisp.  Having  dished  up  the 
fcaron  of  hare,  pour  two  glasses  of  red  French  wine  into 
the  pan ;  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  red-currant  jelly ; 
Btir  all  together  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes ;  strain  it 
^erthe  hare,  and  serve. 


256  THE  cook's  oim>K,  Am 

No.  650.— WILD  FOWL  A  LA  BIGABBADS 

Peel  two  oranges  with  a  sharp  knife,  so  as  to 
the  thin  peel  without  any  pith ;  shred  this  ver 
and  parboil  it  in  a  little  water  for  two  minntei 
it  dry  and  put  it  in  a  small  bainmarie  stewpan 
strained  juice  of  the  two  oranges,  an  ounce 
glaze,  or  the  equivalent  in  good  brown  grain 
pinch  of  cayenne ;  boil  t(^ether  for  two  mini 
serve  this  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat  with  roast  wild 
ducklings :  a  glass  of  port  wine  may  be  added 
fowl. 

No.  651.— OAPILOTADA  OF  FOWL,  &c. 

Any  remains  of  dressed  poultry,  game,  or  t« 
serve  for  this  purpose.     They  should  he  cut  u 
in  members    or  joints  without  waste,   season 
pepper  and  salt,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  si 
over  them,  and  put  aside  on  a  plate ;  chop  fii 
two  tablespoonfuls    of  Piccalilla  ^Crosse  anc 
well's)  and  four  shalots,  and  put  tkese  in  a 
with  a  glass  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  an  equal 
of   the  liquor  from  the  Piccalilla;    boil   doif« 
reduced  to  half  the   original  quantity,  then 
pieces  of  fowl,  or  whatever  the  meat  may  cc 
a  glass  of  sherry,  and  a  gill  of  gravy ;  boil  g 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve.    Olives,  buttc 
rooms,  or  truffles,  may  be  added. 


HOUSBKBIPBB'S  AND  BUTUCB'S  ASSISTANT.  257 


CHAPTER  XV. 
SECOND  COURSE— BOASTS. 


No.  652.— ROAST  HARE. 

and  draw  tlie  hare,  leaving  on  the  ears,  which 
be  scalded,  and  the  hairs  scraped  off;  pick  out  the 

and  cut  off  the  feet  or  pads  just  above  the  first 
;  wipe  the  hare  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  cut  the 
7s  at  the  back  of  the  hind-quarters  and  below  the 
legs.  Prepare  some  veal  or  hare  stuffing,  and  fill 
)axinch  with  it ;  sew-  this  up  with  string,  or  fasten 
th  a  wooden  skewer ;  then  draw  the  legs  under,  as  if 
are  were  in  a  sitting  posture  ;  set  the  head  between 
boulders,  and  stick  a  small  skewer  through  them, 
mg  also  through  the  neck  to  secure  its  position  ; 
mother  skewer  through  the  fore-legs  gathered  up 
r  the  paunch ;  then  take  a  yard  of  string,  double  it 
'0,  placing  the  centre  of  it  on  the  breast  of  the  hare, 
Dring  both  ends  over  the  skewer ;  cross  the  string 
both  sides  of  the  other  skewer,  and  fasten  it  over  the 
.  Spit  the  hare,  and  roast  it  before  a  brisk  fire  for 
;  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  frequently  basting  it 
butter  or  dripping.  Five  minutes  before  taking 
are  up,  throw  on  a  little  salt,  shake  some  flour  over 
:h  a  dredger,  and  baste  it  with  some  fresh  butter ; 

this  froths  up  and  the  hare  has  acquired  a  rich- 
Q  crust,  take  it  off  the  spit,  dish  it  up  with  water- 
)s  round  it,  pour  some  brown  gravy  under,  and 
some  currant  jelly  in  a  boat,  to  be  handed  round. 

6 


268  THIS  G00%6  GDIDB,   AKD 

No.  653.— BOAST  BABBITS. 

Truss  these  in  the  same  manner  as  hares,  £ 
and  roast  them  before  a  rather  brisk  fire,  fr( 
basting  them ;  ten  minutes  before  taking  them  1 
the  rabbits  with  the  following  preparation : — ^bd 
of  cream  with  a  tablespoonfol  of  flour,  some 
parsley,  two  yolks  of  egg,  pepper,  salt,  and  i 
mask  the  rabbits  entirely  with  this,  and  as  so 
has  dried  on  them,  baste  them  with  some  fresl 
This  not  only  adds  to  the  attractive  appearanc 
rabbits,  bnt  it  concentrates  their  gravy,  and  ] 
them  from  becoming  dry,  which  generally  occn 
roasted  according  to  the  common  practice.  Wh 
take  the  rabbits  up  with  care,  to  avoid  breakin 
light-brown  crust  formed  upon  them ;  dish  tl 
pour  some  sauce — prepared  as  follows — under  tl 
serve.  Boil  the  Hvers,  chop  them  fine,  and  j 
into  a  small  stewpan  with  chopped  parsley, 
piece  of  glaze,  a  pat  of  butter,  a  spoonftil  of  sax 
per  and  salt,  grated  lemon -peel,  nutmeg  and  a 
of  gravy ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  imtil  it  boils,  ai 
as  directed  above. 

No.  654.— BOAST  PHEASANT. 

Draw  the  pheasant  by  making  a  small  openii 
vent ;  make  an  incision  along  the  back  part  of  t 
loosen  the  pouch,  &c.,  with  the  fingers,  and  ther 
it ;  singe  the  body  of  the  pheasant  and  its  legs 
flames  of  a  charcoal  fire,  or  with  a  piece  of  light e 
rub  the  scaly  cuticle  oflf  the  legs  with  a  cloth ;  ti 
the  claws  and  spurs ;  cut  off  the  neck  close  u 
back,  leaving  the  skin  of  the  breast  entire ;  i 
pheasant  clean,  and  then  truss  it  in  the  followi 
ner :  viz., — ^place  the  ]»heasant  npon  its  breas 
trussing-needle  and  string  through  the  left  pir 
wings  being  removed)  ;  then  turn  the  bird  ov( 
back,  and  place  the  thumb  and  forefinger  of 


houbkkcepxb's  and  butleb's  assistant.         259 

hand  across  the  breast,  holding  the  legs  erect;  thrust 
the  needle  throngh  the  middle  joint  of  both  thighs,  draw 
it  out,  and  then  pass  it  through  the  other  pinion,  and 
fasten  the  strings  at  the  back;  next,  pass  the  needle 
through  the  hollow  of  the  back,  just  below  the  thighs, 
thrust  it  again  through  the  legs  and  body,  and  tie  tbt* 
strings  tightly;  this  will  give  it  an  appearance  of 
plumpness.  Spit  and  roast  the  pheasant  before  a  brisk 
fire  for  about  half  an  hour,  frequently  basting  it ;  when 
done,  send  to  table  with  brown  gravy  under  it,  and 
bread  sauce  separately  in  a  boat. 

No.  655.— ROAST  PARTRIDGES. 

These  should  be  trussed,  roasted,  and  served  in  the 
same  manner  as  pheasants.  Sometimes,  for  the  sake  of 
variety,  both  pheasants  and  partridges  are  larded  in  the 
same  way  as  sweetbreads,  but  the  practice  is  not  gene- 
rally liked. 

No.  656.— ROAST  QUAILS. 

Draw  and  truss  these  in  the  manner  directed  for 
pheasants;  cut  some  thin  square  layers  of  fat  bacon, 
just  large  enough  to  cover  a  quail,  spread  a  vine-leaf 
over  each  of  these,  cut  it  to  their  size,  and  then  tie  them 
neatly  on  the  breasts  of  the  quails.  Eun  an  iron  skewer 
tlirough  the  quails,  fasten  this  on  to  a  spit,  and  roast 
them  before  a  brisk  fire  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
tben  dish  them  up  with  watercresses  round  them ;  glazy 
the  layers  of  bacon ;  pour  some  gravy  under  the  quailss, 
and  serve. 

No.  657.— RUFFS  AND  REEVES. 

These  birds  must  not  be  drawn,  neither  do  they  ic- 
quire  much  trussing,  being  veiy  plump  ;  a  small  wooden 
skewer  should  be  run  through  tiie  thighs  and  pinions, 
^th  a  string  passed  round  it,  and  fastened ;  cover  these 
'^with  a  layer  of  bacon  and  a  vine-leaf;  run  them 
^n  a  larkspit,  and  roast  them  before  a  brisk  fire  for 
wont  twenty  minutes,  frequently  basting  them  with 

a  2 


280  THE  cook's  oumx,  and 

butter,  and  set  some  toasted  bread  nnder  them  to  reoeiTe 
their  droppings.  When  done,  dish  them  np  on  square 
pieces  of  the  toast ;  garnish  with  watereresses ;  poor  some 
gravy  \mder  them,  and  serve  the  following  sance  sepa- 
rately in  a  boat : — a  large  spoonfdl  of  good  butter-sance, 
a  piece  of  glaze,  cayenne  pepper,  and  lemon-jnice. 

Ortolans  and  wheatears  are  served  in  tiie  same  man- 
ner as  the  foregoing. 

No.  658.— BOAST  LABKS. 

Cat  off  the  heads  and  legs,  and  pick  out  the  gizzaids 
at  the  sides  with  the  point  of  a  small  knife;  season 
with  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  rub 
the  larks  over  with  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  bread-crmnb 
them,  sprinkle  them  with  clarified  butter,  and  roll  them  in 
bread-crumbs  a  second  time ;  then  run  them  on  a  lark- 
spit,  fasten  this  on  a  common  spit,  and  roast  them  before 
a  very  brisk  fire  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  basting 
them  with  fresh  butter  melted  in  a  spoon  before  the  fire. 
When  done,  dish  them  up  in  rows,  or  in  a  circle ;  fill  the 
centre  with  bread-crumbs  firied  of  a  light-brown  cokur, 
in  a  sautapau  with  butter,  and  serve  them  with  the  sauoe 
recommended  for  ruflfs  and  rees. 

No.  659.— WOODCOCKS  AND  SNIPEa 

These  are  both  trussed  and  roasted  in  the  same  man- 
ner. First  pick  them  entirely,  neck  and  head;  then 
twist  the  legs  at  the  joints,  so  as  to  bring  the  feet  down 
upon  the  thighs  ;  run  their  bill  throngb  the  thighs  and 
body,  and  fasten  a  noose  with  string  round  the  bend  of 
the  joints,  across  the  lower  part  of  the  breast ;  bring 
both  ends  round  the  head  and  tip  of  the  bill,  and  fitften 
it  on  the  back ;  cover  the  woodcocks  with  layers  rf 
bacon,  and  tie  these  round  with  string;  roast  then 
before  the  fire  for  about  five-and-twenty  minutes,  fi** 
quently  basting  them  with  butter  or  dripping,  rfso^ 
some  toasted  bread  under  the  birds  to  receive  the  drop- 
pings from  the  trail ;  and  when  they  are  done,  dish  theii 


housskbkpkr's  and  butlkb's  assistant.         261 

dp  with  a  piece  of  the  toast  tinder  each,  and  wateroresses 
round  them.  Serve  some  plain  hatter  sauoe  separately 
in  a  hoat. 

No.  660.— BOAST  CAPONS. 

Draw  and  truss  these  as  directed  for  trussing  phea- 
sants ;  place  them  upon  a  spit,  fsisten  the  feet  to  it  with 
string,  to  prevent  the  capons  from  twisting  round  while 
roasting ;  ahout  three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  sufiBce  to 
roast  them.  When  done,  dish  them  up  with  water- 
cresses  ;  pour  some  bright  gravy  under  them,  and  serve 
with  breadnsauce  in  a  boat. 

Poulards,  fowls,  chickens,  and  turkey-poults  are  treated 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  foregoing. 

No.  661.— GREEN  GK)OSE. 

Draw  the  goose,  pick  off  all  the  stubble-feathers; 
scald  the  legs,  and  rub  off  the  skin  with  a  cloth ;  cut 
the  tips  of  the  feet,  and  twist  the  legs  round,  so  as  to 
let  the  web  of  the  feet  rest  flat  upon  the  thighs  ;  then 
truss  the  goose  in  the  ordinary  way  as  directed  for 
pheasants :  place  it  on  a  spit,  and  roast  it  before  a 
brisk  fire  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  when 
done,  dish  it  up  with  wateroresses  round  it ;  pour  some 
gravy  under,  and  serve. 

Ducklings  are  roasted  and  served  in  the  same  way  as 
the  above. 

No.  662.— ROAST  PIGEONS. 

Truss  these  with  thin  layers  of  fat  bacon  and  a  vine- 
leaf  over  the  breasts;  roast  them  for  about  twenty 
niinutes,  and  when  done,  dish  them  up  with  a  sauce 
ffiade  with  the  livers  in  the  manner  directed  for  making 
liver-sauce  for  rabbits. 

No.  663.— ROAST  BLACK  GAME  AND  GROUSE. 

Beth  these  should  be  trussed  in  the  same  manner  as 
pbeasants,  then  roasted  before  a  brisk  fire,  and  five 
namutes  before  taking  them  up,  should  be  frothed  witb 


262  THB  cook's  6UIDX,   AHP 

flour  and  batter ;  wben  done,  dish  them  m  with  gimTj 
under  them,  and  send  to  table  with  Med  Dread-cnnnbt 
and  bread-sauce,  in  separate  sauce-boats. 

No.  664.— PEAHENa 

Truss  these  in  the  same  way  as  pheasants,  except  that 
the  head  must  be  left  adhering  to  the  skin  c^  the  breast, 
and  fastened  at  the  side  of  the  thigh ;  let  the  peahen  he 
closely  larded  all  over  the  breast,  and  roasted  before  a 
moderate  fire  for  about  an  hour;  and,  when  nearly  done, 
glaze  the  larding,  and,  on  removing  the  fowl  tram  the 
fire,  dish  up  with  watercresses ;  pour  some  gravy  under, 
and  serve  with  breadnsauce  separately  in  a  sauce-boat 

Ko.  665.— OUmEA.FOWL. 

When  two  of  these  are  served  for  a  dish,  one  should 
be  larded  and  the  other  covered  with  a  layer  of  fiit 
bacon;  roast  them  before  a  brisk  fire  for  about  twenty 
minutes;  glaze  and  dish  them  up  with  wateicreons; 
pour  some  gravy  under,  and  serve  bread- sauce  separately 
m  a  boat. 


bouskkekpkb's  and  butlxb's  assistant. 


CHAPTER  XVL 

HOW  TO  DEESS  VEGETABLES. 


No.  666.— BEAIZED  CELERY  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Clean  six  heads  of  celery ;  cut  them  about  six  icches 
in  length,  and  trim  the  roots  neatly ;  parboil  them  in 
water  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  immerse  them  in  cold 
water;  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  afterwards  place  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  some  stock,  and  braize  them  gently 
over  a  slow  fire  for  about  an  hour ;  when  done,  drain 
them  upon  a  napkin ;  trim  and  dish  them  up  in  the  fol- 
lowing order : — first  cut  each  head  of  celery  into  three 
equal  lengths,  then  dish  them  up  in  the  same  manner  as 
cutlets ;  garnish  round  with  some  small  circular  crous- 
tades  of  fried  bread,  about  an  inch  in  diameter,  and  filled 
yith  beef-marrow  previously  boiled  for  three  minutes 
in  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  afterwards  tossed  in  a 
stewpan,  with  a  little  liquid  glaze,  lemon-juice,  pepper 
Mid  salt ;  pour  some  brown  sauce  (incorporated  with  a 
pat  of  butter  and  a  little  lemon-juice)  over  the  celery, 
vnd  serve. 

No.  667.— CELERY  A  LA  VILLEROI. 

Braize  four  heads  of  celery  in  the  manner  described 
the  foregoing  article ;  and  when  done,  drain  them 
H)ii  a  napkin  to  absorb  all  the  moisture ;  split  each 
^  into  halves ;  mask  tliem  with  some  reduced  AUe- 
ttdfi  sauce,  and  place  them  upon  ap  Earthen  dish  to 
ome  cold.   They  must  then  be  rolled  in  bread-crumbs, 


264  THK  cook's  GUID&   AHD 

afterwards  dipped  in  beaten  eggs,  and  bread-cmmbed  OTer 
again.  Just  before  sending  to  table,  place  the  pieces  ci 
celery  carefully  on  the  wire  frying-basket ;  immerse  them 
in  plenty  of  clean  hog*s-lard  heated  for  the  purpose,  and 
fry  them  of  a  bright-yellow  colour ;  drain  Uiem  upon  a 
cloth ;  dish  them  up  on  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley,  and 
serve. 

No.  eeS.— SALSIFIS  A  LA  GBEME. 

Scrape  off  the  outside  part  until  the  salsifis  become 
white,  and  throw  them  into  a  pan  containing  cold  water 
mixed  with  a  twentieth  part  of  vinegar  or  lemon-juice, 
to  prevent  them  from  losing  their  whiteness ;  then  boil 
them  in  hot  water,  with  a  little  butter,  mignionette- 
pepper,  salt,  lemon-juice,  or  vinegar ;  when  done,  drain 
them  on  a  sieve ;  cut  them  up  into  inch  lengths,  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  spoonful  of  white  sauce,  a 
pat  of  butter,  a  little  mignionette-pepper,  and  lemon- 
juice  ;  toss  them  over  the  fire,  and  dish  them  up  in  the 
form  of  a  dome ;  place  some  croutons  of  fried  bread  or 
fleurons  round  the  dish,  and  serve. 

No.  669.— SALSIFIS  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Prepare  the  salsifis  as  above,  and  when  done,  diain 
and  cut  them  into  pieces  about  three  inches  long :  pat 
these  into  a  basin  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of 
French  vinegar,  some  mignionette-pepper  and  salt; 
allow  them  to  be  steeped  in  this  until  within  about  ten 
minutes  before  sending  to  table ;  they  must  then  be 
drained  upon  a  napkin,  dipped  in  some  frying  batter, 
and  fried  in  lard  made  hot  for  the  purpose ;  when  done 
crisp,  drain  them  on  a  cloth,  dish  them  up  on  a  napkin 
with  fried  parsley,  and  serve. 

No.  670  —SPINACH  WITH  BUTTER. 

Pick  all  the  stalks  from  the  spinach ;  wash  it  in 
several  waters,  and  drain  it  upon  a  sieve  ;  throw  it  into 
a  stewpan  of  hot  water  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  keep 


housskskpib's  AMD  butlxb's  absistamt.         266 

it  boiling  until  it  becomes  thoroughly  tender ;  then  dmin 
it  in  a  oolander,  and  squeeze  all  tbe  water  from  it.  The 
spinach  must  next  be  carefully  turned  over  with  the 
point  of  a  knife,  to  remove  any  straws  or  stalks  that 
may  have  been  overlooked;  it  should  then  be  rubbed 
through  a  coarse  wire  sieve,  and  placed  in  a  stewpan 
with  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  grated 
nutm^;  stir  the  spinach  over  the  fire  with  a  spoon 
until  it  becomes  quite  warm;  then  add  a  spoonful  of 
sauce,  a  smaii  piece  of  glaze,  and  about  four  ounces  of 
&esh  butter ;  work  the  whole  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  well  mixed,  then  pile  the  spinach  up  in  the 
centre  of  the  dish,  garnish  it  round  with  crdutons,  and 
serve. 

No.  671.-SPINACH  WITH  CREAM, 

Prepare  the  spinach  as  above,  season  with  a  little 
nutmeg,  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  quite  warm ;  then  add  a  gill  of  cream, 
two  pats  of  butter,  and  a  good  dessert-spoonful  of 
pounded  sugar ;  work  the  whole  well  together  over  the 
fire,  and  dish  up  the  spinach  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
article. 

No.  672.— ENDIVE  WITH  CREAM. 

Pick  off  all  the  outer  leaves,  leaving  only  the  white ; 
trim  the  roots,  and  wash  the  endive  in  several  watens, 
carefully  removing  any  insects  that  may  be  concealed  in 
the  inner  folds  of  the  leaves.  Put  a  large  stewpan  half 
fiJled  with  water  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  throw 
in  the  endives  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  allow  them 
to  continue  boiling  fiEist  imtil  they  become  quite  tender ; 
drain  them  in  a  colander,  and  squeeze  all  the  moisture 
from  them  ;  next,  take  each  head  of  endive  separately ; 
out  off  the  root  and  again  look  over  the  leaves,  spreading 
them  on  the  table  with  the  point  of  a  knife ;  when  this 
is  completed,  chop  them  very  fine,  and  pass  them 
through  a  coarse  wire  sieve;  then  place  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  little  grated 


266  THX  cook's  guidx,  ahd 

nutmeg  and  salt ;  stir  this  oyer  tlie  fire  for  ten  minutes; 
add  half  a  gill  of  cream,  a  spoonfol  of  white  sance, 
and  a  dessert-spoonfol  of  ponnded  sugar.  Keep  the 
endives  boiling  on  a  stove  fire  until  sufficiently  reduced 
60  as  to  be  able  to  pile  them  on  a  dish ;  when  sending 
to  table,  garnish  round  with  crdutons  and  serve. 


No.  673.-CAULIFLOWEBS  WITH  WHITB  SAUCE. 

Remove  the  green  stalks,  divide  them,  if  laige,  into 
quarters ;  and  with  the  point  of  a  small  knife  pick  out  all 
the  small  leaves ;  wash  the  caaiifiowers  and  boil  them 
in  hot  water  with  a  little  mignionette-piepper,  a  pat  of 
butter  and  some  salt ;  wnen  done,  drain  them  upon  a 
sieve ;  next,  take  a  round- bottomed  quart  basin,  and  fill 
it  with  the  cauliflowers,  placing  the  flowerets  next  the 
sides,  that  the  white  only  may  be  seen  when  dished  up ; 
pour  some  white  sauce  over  them ;  garnish  with  flenrons, 
and  serve. 


No.  674.— CAUUFLOWEBS  WITH  PABMESAN  CHEES& 

Prepare  and  dish  up  the  cauliflowers   as  directed 
above;    put  a  large   spoonful  of  white  sauce  into  a 
stewpan,  with  four  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  the  yolks  of  four  egg^  a. 
small  piece  of  glaze,  some  lemon-juice,  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt ;  stir  this  preparation  over  the  fire  until  well 
mixed,  without  boUmg ;  pour  it  on  the  cauliflowers,  bo 
as  to  mask  them  entirely  with  it.     Smooth  the  dome 
over  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  and  cover  the  top  with 
bread-crumbs  and  Parmesan  cheese ;  place  them  in  the 
oven  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  when  they  b»^ 
acquired  a  bright-yellow  colour,  put  a  border  of  croawM 
of  fried  bread  round  the  base,  and  serve.     The  crdntoai 
may  be  stuck  round  the  bottom  of  the  dish  to  fonn  a 
coronet  previously  to  dishing  up  the  cauliflowerB,  so  tf 
to  prevent  them  from  spreading. 


HOUSEEEEPEB'b  AND   BUTLEB'S   ASSISTANT.  267 


No.  675.— TOMATAS  A  LA  PEOVENCALE. 

Slice  off  that  part  of  the  tomata  that  adheres  to  the 

stalk ;  scoop  out  the  seeds  without  breaking  the  sides 

of  the  fruit,   and  place  them  in  circular  order  in   a 

sautapan  containing  about  a  gill  of  salad-oil ;  next,  chop 

up  half  a  pottle  of  mushrooms,  a  handful  of  parsley,  and 

four  shalots ;  put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces 

of  scraped  fat  bacon  or  ham ;  season  with  pepper  and 

salt,  and  a  little  chopped  thyme;  fry  these  for  about 

five  minutes,  then  mix  in  three  yolks  of  eggs ;  fill  the 

tomatas  with  this  preparation ;  shake  some  light-coloured 

raspings  of  bread  over  them,  and  place  them  over  a 

brisk  fire,  holding  a  red-hot  salamander  over  them  for 

about  ten  minutes,  by  which  time  they  will  be  done ; 

dish  them  up ;  pour  some  brown  sauce  round  the  base, 

and  serve. 

No.  676.— MUSHROOMS  AU  GRATIN. 

Punnet  or  large  mushrooms  must  be  used  for  this 
purpose ;  cut  the  stalks,  trim  the  edges,  and  remove  the 
skin ;  then  fill  each  mushroom  with  a  similar  prepara- 
tion to  that  directed  to  be  used  for  tomatas  k  la  Proven- 
^ale;  shake  some  raspings  of  bread  over  them,  and 
place  them  in  a  sautapan  spread  with  butter,  put  them 
in  the  oven  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  bake,  and 
tlien  dish  them  up  in  a  pyramidal  form;  pour  some 
brown  sauce  round  them,  and  serve. 

No.  677.— LARGE  TRUFFLES  A  LA  SERVIETTE. 

When  the  truffles  have  been  thoroughly  cleansed  by 
tnwliing  the  mould  off  in  water,  drain  and  place  them 
in  a  stewpan;  pour  some  mirepoix,  Ko.  300,  on  them; 
place  some  layers  of  bacon  on  the  top,  and  set  them  to 
Doil  on  a  slow  fire ;  allow  them  to  simmer  gently  over 
*  slow  fire,  or  in  the  oven,  for  about  three- quarter 
^f  an  hour ;  then  dish  them  in  a  folded  napkin,  and 


268  THX  cook's  Qjsnym,  asd 

Bend  the  following  sance  separately  in  a  sanoe-boat : — 
mix  a  gill  of  the  fiiiest  salad-oil  with  a  tablespoonfdl  of 
chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  some  mignionette 
pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  half-gUuee, 
made  by  boiling  down  about  a  gill  of  the  miiepoix  in 
which  the  truffles  have  been  boiled* 


No.  678.— TRUFFLES  A  LA  PIEMONTAISE. 

Out  half  a  pound  of  fresh  truffles  into  collope ;  place 
them  in  a  sautapan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Luoca 
oil,  one  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  chopped  thyme,  a 
clove  of  garlic,  some  mignionette-pepper  and  salt;  fiy 
them  over  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes ;  remove  the 
garlic;  then  add  a  gravy-spoonful  of  Italian  sauce,  a 
small  piece  of  glaze,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  ton 
the  whole  together  over  the  fire,  and  pour  it  over  the 
hollow  crusts  of  two  French  rolls  from  which  the  top 
crust  part  has  been  removed,  then  thickly  spread  witb 
butter,  and  afterwards  placed  in  the  oven  for  ten  minntee 
to  become  crisp. 


No.  679.— POBTUGAL  ONIONS  A  L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Peel  the  onions  and  stamp  out  the  cores  with  a  long 
vegetable  cutter  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  diameter; 
parboil  them  in  water  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  drain 
them  on  a  cloth.  Spread  the  bottom  of  a  deep  sautapan 
with  butter ;  place  the  onions  in  it ;  moisten  with  broth 
pufficient  to  just  cover  them,  and  set  them  to  boil  over  a 
slow  fire,  occasionally  turning  them  in  their  liqnor; 
when  they  are  nearly  done,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
pounded  sugar ;  boil  them  down  quickly  to  a  glaze ;  add 
a  little  tomata ;  roll  the  onions  in  it,  and  dish  them  op 
in  a  close  circle. 

Kcte. — lliese  onions  are  better  adapted  for  gamiahing 
removes  of  braized  beef,  &c.,  than  for  being  served » 
a  second-course  dish. 


houbkkskpbr's  and  BUTLBB'8  assistaht.  2269 

No.  680.— ARTICHOKES  WITH  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Trim  the  bottoms  of  the  artichokes ;  cut  off  the  tips  of 
the  leaves,  and  boil  thom  in  water  with  a  little  salt  for 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  when  done,  drain  them 
upon  a  sieve  for  five  minutes,  loosen  the  fibrous  sub- 
stance in  the  inside  with  the  handle  of  a  tablespoon,  and 
after  this  has  been  all  removed  from  the  artichokes,  dish 
them  up  on  a  napkin ;  pour  a  little  butter  sauce  inside 
each,  and  send  up  some  of  the  sauce  in  a  boat. 

No.  681.— ARTICHOKES  A  LA  BAUIGOULE. 

Trim  some  small  artich(;kes,  and  with  the  handle  of  an 

iron  tablespoon  scoop  out  all  the  fibrous  part  inside. 

Put  about  a  pound  of  clean  hog*s-lard  into  a  frying-j)an 

on  the  fire,  and  when  quite  hot,  fry  the  bottoui  of  the 

artichokes  in  it  foral>out  three  minutes;  then  turn  them 

upside  down,  and  fry  the  tips  of  the  leaves  also ;  drain 

them  upon  a  cloth,  to  absorb  all  the  ^ease,  and  fill  them 

with  a  similar  preparation  to  that  directed  for  toniatas 

a  la  Provengale ;  tie  them  up  with  string,  and  place  them 

in  a  large  stewpan  or  fricandeau-pan ;   moisten  with  a 

little  good  stock ;  put  the  lid  on ;  place  them  in  the  oven 

to  simmer  for  about  an  hour;  when  done,  drain  them 

npon  a  cloth  ;  remove  the  strings  ;  fill  the  centre  of  each 

artichoke  with  some  Italian  sauce;  diwh  them  up  with 

wme  of  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

No.  682.— ARTICHOKES  A  LA  LYONNAISE. 

Pnll  off  the  lower  leaves  without  damaging  the  bottoms 
of  tbo  artichokes,  which  must  be  turned  smooth  with 
a  sharp  knife  ;  cut  the  artichokes  into  quart <ir.s,  remove 
the  fibrous  parts,  trim  them  neatly,  and  pjirboil  them  in 
^ter  witli  a  little  salt  for  about  five  minutes ;  then 
drain  them  in  a  colander,  and  arrange  th(im  in  circular 
order  in  a  sautiipan  thickly  spread  with  about  two 
onnces  of  fresh  butter ;  strew  about  a  diisscrt-spoonful 
of  ponnded  sugar  over  this  ;  season  with  mignionette- 
pepper  and  salt ;  moisten  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and 


270  THE  cook's  guidx,  ahd 

a  gill  of  good  stock,  and  place  tliem  on  a  Aovt 
simmer  very  gently  for  about  three-quarters  of  ai 
taking  care  that  thej  do  not  bnm;  when  don 
should  be  of  a  deep-yellow  colour,  and  nicely 
Dish  them  up  in  the  fonn  of  a  dome,  showing  the 
of  the  artichokes  only;  remove  any  leaves  th^ 
have  broken  off  in  the  sautapan ;  add  a  spoonful  of 
gravy  or  sauce,  two  pats  of  butter  and  some 
juice ;  simmer  this  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  mea 
with  a  spoon ;  and  when  the  butter  has  been  mi 
with  the  sauce,  pour  it  over  the  artichokes,  and  s 

No.  683.— ARTICHOKES  A  LITAUENNE. 

These  are  prepared  in  the  manner  described 
foregoing  article,  except  that,  when  about  to  finisl 
brown  Italian  sauce  must  be  substituted  for  plan 
or  gravy. 

No.  684.— ASPAEAGUS  WITH  WHITE  SAUCI 

Pick  the  loose  leaves  from  the  heads,  and  sera 
stalks  clean ;  wash  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  ti 
up  in  bundles  of  about  twenty  in  each,  keeping 
heads  turned  the  same  way ;  cut  the  stalks  even,  1 
them  about  eight  inches  long ;  put  the  asparagus 
water  with  a  small  handful  of  salt  to  boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  when  done,  drain  them  ca 
upon  a  napkin  to  avoid  breaking  off  the  heads 
them  up  on  a  square  thick  piece  of  toasted  bread  < 
in  the  water  they  have  been  boiled  in,  and  send  t 
with  some  white  sauce  separately  in  a  sauce-boat 

No.  685.— ASPARAGUS  PEAS  A  LA  CREME. 

Boil  a  quart  of  asparagus  peas  in  plenty"  of  wate 
handful  of  salt ;  the  water  must  boil  before  the  p 
put  in ;  when  they  are  done,  drain  them  in  a  col 
immerse  them  in  cold  water  for  three  minutes,  ao 
drain  them  on  a  sieve.  Next  place  the  asparagn 
in  a  stewpan  with  a  small  faggot  of  green  onioi 


HOUSBKXKPXBS  AJfl)   BUTLSB  S  ASSIBTAKT.  271 

paiidey,  two  otmces  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  pounded 
sugar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  salt ;  put  the  lid  on  and 
set  them  to  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fiie  for  five  minutes. 
Then  remove  the  faggot  of  parsley ;  and  if  there  be  any 
liquor  in  the  peas,  boil  it  down  quickly,  and  incorporate 
with  them  two  small  pats  of  fredi  butter  and  a  leason  of 
two  yolks  of  eggs,  mixed  with  half  a  gill  of  cream ;  toss 
the  peas  over  a  stove-fire,  to  set  the  leason  in  them,  and 
dish  them  up  in  the  form  of  a  dome,  with  a  border  of 
fleurons  round  them,  and  serve. 

No.  686.— FRENCH  BEANS  A  LA  MAITBE  D'HOTEL. 

Pick  and  string  the  beans ;  cut  them  up  and  shred 

each  bean  into  three  or  four  strips ;  wash  them  in  plenty 

of  water ;  drain  them  in  a  colander,  and  throw  them  into 

a  stewpan  containing  boiling  water  and  a  handful  of 

salt,  and  boil  them  briskly  until  they  become  tender ; 

they  must  be  drained  in  a  colander ;  next,  put  a  spoonful 

of  white  sauce  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  ounces  of  fresh 

butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parboiled  parsley,  a 

very  little  nutmeg,  mignionette-pepper,  salt,  and  the 

juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  stir  these  well  together  over  the 

fire,  and  when  perfectly  mixed,  throw  in  the  beans,  and 

toss  the  whole  together  over  the  fire  until  quite  hot, 

then  dish  them  up  with  a  border  of  cr6utons  round  them, 

Mid  serve. 

No.  687.— FKENCH  BEANS  WITH  FINE-HERBS. 
Boil  the  beans  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  case ;  put  two 
pats  of  fresh  butter  into  a  stewpan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  and  parboiled  parsley,  and  two  shalots  also 
chopped,  a  little  nutmeg,  mignionette-pepper  and  salt, 
and  the  juice  of  a  leinon ;  simmer  this  over  the  fire  until 
Bttdted,  and  then  throw  the  beans  in ;  toss  the  whole 
^i;ether,  and  dish  them  up  with  croutons  round  them. 

No.  688.— BROAD  BEANS  A  LA  CRfiME. 
For  this  purpose  the  beans  must  bo  young ;  boil  them 
^  water  with  a.  faggot  of  parsley  and  some  salt ;  when 
done,  drain  them  in  a  colander ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan 


272  Tm  COOK'S  aun>i,  ajw 

witli  two  otmces  of  fresh  butter,  some  chopped  p 
acd  as  much  winter-sayonry  as  will  cover  the  ti 
spoon,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  toss  the  beans  01 
fire  for  five  minutes,  and  then  incorporate  with  1 
leason  of  four  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  juice  of 
lemon ;  when  the  leason  has  become  set  in  the 
dish  them  up  with  fleurons  round  them,  and  serv< 

No.  689.— GREEN  PEAS,  PLAIN. 

Put  the  peas  into  boiling  water,  with  some  salt 
bunch  of  green  mint;  keep  them  boiling  brisli 
about  twenty  minutes;  when  done,  drain  then 
colander,  dish  them  up  with  chopped  boiled  mint 
top,  and  send  some  small  pats  of  veiy  firesh 
separately  on  a  plate. 

No.  690.— STEWED  PEAS. 

Put  a  quart  of  young  peas  into  a  pan,  with  an 
of  butter,  and  plenty  of  cold  water ;  rub  the  pe) 
butter  together  with  the  fingers  until  well  mixed 
pour  off  the  water,  and  put  the  peas  into  a  bU 
with  a  couple  of  cabbage  lettuces,  shred  small,  a 
of  green  onions  and  parsley,  a  dessert-spoon 
pounded  sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  put  the  lid  01 
set  the  peas  to  stew  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for 
half  an  hour ;  when  done,  if  there  appears  to  be 
liquor,  boil  it  down  quickly  over  the  fire ;  ne 
about  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  on  a  plate  ^ 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and  knead  them  togethe: 
this  into  the  peas,  and  toss  the  whole  over  the  fir 
well  mixed ;  dish  the  peas  up ;  garnish  round 
fleurons,  and  serve. 

No.  691.— PEAS  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

These  must  be  prepared  as  above,  omitting  the  k 
stew  them  in  the  same  manner,  and  when  done, 
little  light-coloured  glaze,  and  finish  with  two  ooi 
kneaded  butter  and  flour,  with  a  little  more  suga 
in  the  foregoing  case. 


'soubxkbkpxb's  amb  butlsb's  assistant.         278 

No.  692.— TUBNIPS  GLAOES  WITH  SUGAR. 

-n  about  two  dozen  pieces  of  turnips  into  the  form 
gs  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  or  else  in  the 
of  small  pears ;  put  them  into  a  deep  sautapan, 
I  with  fresh  butter,  and  strewn  with  about  two 
3  of  pounded  sugar ;  moisten  with  about  half  a  pint 
d  stock,  and  set  the  turnips  to  simmer  very  gently 
I  moderate  fire  for  about  twenty  minutes :  when 
re  nearly  done,  remove  the  lid,  and  place  them  over 
k  fire,  to  boil  the  moisture  down  to  glaze,  gently 
5  the  turnips  in  this  with  great  care,  to  avoid 
ing  them ;  they  must  then  be  dished  up  in  neat 
and  the  glaze  poured  over  them. 

STo.  69a— YOUNG  CARROTS  A  L'ALLEMANDB. 

m  one  bunch  of  spring-carrots,  keeping  them  in 
Driginal  shape  but  making  them  equal  in  size ;  par- 
lem  in  water  with  a  little  salt  for  about  ten  minutes, 
irain  them  in  a  colander ;  place  them  in  a  deep 
pan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  an  equal  pro- 
)n  of  loaf-sugar,  and  about  a  pint  of  stock ;  put  the 
a,  and  set  the  carrots  to  boil  very  gently  over  a 
rate  fire  for  about  half  an  hour ;  then  set  them  to 
Driskly  until  their  liquor  is  reduced  to  a  glaze, 
they  must  be  gently  rolled  in  this,  and  dished  up 
ound-bottomed  quart  basin,  so  as  to  form  a  dome 
turned  out  upon  the  dish  ;  pour  round  some  Alle- 
e  sauce,  mixed  with  some  chopped  and  parboiled 
y ,  also  the  remainder  of  their  glaze  over  the  carrots, 
erve. 

No.  694.— VEGETABLE-MARROW. 

t  the  vegetable-marrow,  according  to  size,  into 
six,  or  eight  pieces — just  as  oranges  are  divided ; 
md  trim  them  neatly ;  place  them  in  a  deep  sautapan 
d  with  butter,  and  season  with  a  very  little  nut- 
mignionette-pepper,  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
led  sugar ;  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  white  broth. 


274  THE  cook's  ouidx.  ahb 

and  set  them  to  boil  gently  over  a  stove-fire  for  aboi 
ten  minntes  ;  then  boil  them  down  in  their  glaze ;  mixi 
a  pat  of  butter  and  the  jnice  of  half  a  lemon;  pour  th 
over  the  vegetable-marrow,  and  serve. 

No.  695.— ANOTHEB  METHOD. 

Trim  the  vegetable-marrows  as  above ;  boil  them  gentl 
in  water,  with  a  pat  of  bntter,  and  a  little  salt ;  drai 
and  dish  them  up ;  pour  some  white  sauce  over  then 
and  serve. 

No.  696.— CUCUMBERS  A  LA  POULETTB. 

Cut  the  cucumbers  into  collops  about  an  inch  a 
diameter ;  put  them  into  a  basin  with  a  tablespoonfo]  oi 
salt  and  twice  that  proportion  of  vinegar ;  allow  them 
to  steep  in  this  for  several  hours.  Then  pour  off  all  the 
moisture  from  the  cucumbers,  and  put  them  into  a  stev- 
pan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  very  little  grated 
nutmeg,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  pounded  sugar,  and 
set  them  to  simmer  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  until 
they  become  quite  tender  :  this  will  require  about  half 
an  hour.  The  butter  must  then  be  poured  off,  and  » 
spoonful  of  white  sauce  added ;  simmer  the  cucumhcrs 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  finish  by  incorporating 
with  them  a  leason  of  four  yolks  of  eggs  mixed  with  half 
a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  spooi^l  of  chopped  and  parboUed 
parsley,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  dish  them  np 
with  a  border  of  fleurons,  and  serve. 

No.  697.-CUCUMBERS  A  LESPAGNOLE. 

Cut  the  cucumbers  into  lengths  of  about  two  inches ; 
scoop  out  all  the  seeds ;  pare  off  the  skins,  and  trijD 
them  round  and  smooth  at  the  ends ;  parboil  them  id 
water  and  salt  for  five  minutes,  and  then  drain  them 
upon  a  napkin :  fill  each  piece  of  cucumber  with  fiOiD^ 
quenelle  forcemeat ;  place  them  in  neat  order  in  a  deep 
sautapan ,  moisten  with  stock,  and  set  them  to  simiD^' 


housbkbepxb'b  and  butlbb's  assistant.         276 

very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  half  an  hour; 
when  they  are  become  quite  tender,  drain  them  upon  a 
cloth;  dish  them  up  in  a  pyramidal  form;  pour  some 
brown  sauce  over  them,  and  serve. 

No.  698.— JBBUSALEM  AETICHOKES. 

Wash  them  thoroughly  in  plenty  of  water ;  peel,  or 
tttm  them  in  the  form  of  large  olives  or  small  pears ; 
boil  them  in  water  with  a  pat  of  butter  and  a  little  salt 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  when  done,  drain  them 
^pon  a  cloth ;  dish  them  up  neatly ;  pour  some  butter 
sauce  over  them,  and  serve. 

No.  699.— JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  A  LITALIENNE. 

Turn  the  artichokes  into  any  fancy  shape ;  place  them 
m  circular  order  in  a  deep-sautapan  spread  with  butter; 
^^nwithmignionette-pepper,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  lemon- 
juice;  moisten  with  a  little  stock  or  water ;  put  the  lid 
ou;  set  them  to  simmer  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for 
about  half  an  hour,  during  which  time  they  will,  if 
properly  attended  to,  acquire  a  deep-yellow  colour, 
^ilthem  down  in  their  glaze ;  dish  them  up ;  pour  some 
l^lian  sauce  round  them,  and  serve. 

No.  700.— WHITE  HARICOT  BEANS  A  LA  MAITRE 

D'HOTEL. 

These  are  seldom  to  be  met  with  in  England,  except 
jiiadried  state;  when  procurable  they  should  be  treated 
in  the  following  manner : — put  a  large  stewpan,  half  filled 
^th  water,  on  the  fire  to  boil ;  then  throw  in  the  beans, 
^th  a  pat  of  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  allow  them  to 
boil  until  they  are  become  quite  tender ;  drain  them  in 
*  colander ;  then  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  about 
two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  some 
chopped  parsley,  and  lemon-juice ;  toss  the  whole  well 
^gelher  over  the  fire  until  well-mixed ;  then  dish  them 
^  with  crdutons  round  them,  and  serve. 

Sole. — ^When  the  haricot  beans  are  in  a  dried  state 

T  2 


276  THs  cook's  Guipa»  and 

they  should  be  steeped  in  oold  water  for  six  honn 
least  previously  to  their  being  dressed  for  the  iaX 
and  must  be  boiled  in  cold  water ;  in  all  other  lespe 

finish  them  in  the  above  manner. 

No.  701.— WHITE  HARICOT  BEANS  A  LA  BEETOKNl 

Boil  the  haricot  beans  as  directed  above,  and  wl 
done,  drain  them  in  a  colander ;  put  them  into  a  stew] 
with  some  13rdtonne  sauce,  and  set  them  to  simmer  o^ 
the  fire  for  five  minutes ;  toss  them  together,  and  d 
them  up,  as  the  above. 

No.  702.— AMERICAN  YAMS  A  LA  FRANOAISE. 

Cut  the  yams  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thic 
trim  them  into  large  oval-shaped  scollops;  and  thr 
them  into  a  pan  full  of  water;  wash  and  drain  th( 
upon  a  cloth ;  then  place  them  in  circular  order,  ii 
deep  sautapan  spread  with  four  ounces  of  fresh  butt 
and  season  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  salt;  moist 
with  a  pint  of  water ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  set  them 
simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  three-quarte 
of  an  hour,  taking  care  to  turn  them  over,  in  order  th 
they  may  acquire  a  bright  yellow-glazed  colour  on  bo 
sides :  dish  them  up  in  close  circular  order,  piled  up : 
rows ;  pour  the  following  sauce  under  them,  and  serv( 
— knead  two  pats  of  fresh  butter  with  a  dessertrspoonfi 
of  flour ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  gill  of  cream, 
spoonful  of  pounded  sugar,  a  very  little  salt,  and  a  te 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water;  stir  this  over  tl 
fire  until  it  thickens,  and  then  use  it  as  directed. 

No.  703.— POTATOES  A  LA  MAITBE-DTEOTEL. 

The  small  French  kidney  or  Yitelotte-potatoes  « 
best  adapted  for  this  purpose :  boil  or  steam  them  in  tl 
ordinary  way,  and  when  done,  cut  them  into  slices  aba 
the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick ;  put  them  into  a  stewp 
with  a  spoonful  of  white  sauce  or  broth,  four  ounoea 


HOVBIKIIPaB  8  AND  BUTLXB'S  ASSISTANT.  277 

bttttor,  some  pepper  and  salt,  chopped  parsley  and  lemon- 
juioe;  toss  tnem  over  the  fire  until  the  butter,  <&o.,  is 
mixed  in  with  the  potatoes ;  then  dish  them  up  with 
crdutons  round  them,  and  serve. 

Na  704.— NEW  POTATOES  A  LA  CREME. 

Cut  some  reoently-boiled  new  potatoes  into  slices; 
pat  them  into  a  stewpan  with  half  a  gill  of  cream,  two 
onnoes  of  fresh  butter,  a  very  little  nutmeg,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  set  them  on  the  fire ; 
t068  them  well  together,  and  dish  them  up  with  crdutons. 

No.  705.— POTATOES  A  LA  CREME  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  some  boiled  potatoes  into  slices,  about  an  inch  in 
diameter ;  prepare  the  same  kind  of  mixture  as  directed 
for  cauliflowers  au  gratin;  stick  some  neatly-cut 
crdutons  of  fried  bread  round  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
ifl  the  form  of  a  coronet ;  place  a  close  circular  row  of 
the  slices  of  potatoes  within  this  border  of  cr6utons; 
^read  a  layer  of  the  mixture  over  them ;  then  repeat 
the  row  of  potatoes  and  the  mixture  until  the  disn  is 
complete :  smooth  the  top  over  with  some  of  the  sauce ; 
^hake  some  fried  bread-crumbs  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  surface,  so  as  entirely  to  cover  it ;  put 

he  potatoes  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes  to  be 

^armed  through,  and  serve. 

No.  705a.— POTATOES  A  LA  LYONNAISE. 

Cut  up  six  boiled  potatoes  in  rounds  about  a  quarter 

an  inch  thick,  and  fry  them  of  a  light-brown  colour 

h  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  frj'ing-pan ;  season  with 

pped  parsley  and  shalot,  pepper  and  salt,  and  half  a 

m-juice,  and,  if  possible,  a  small  piece  of  glaze. 

No.  705b.— POTATOES  A  LA  PROVENCALE. 

ese  are  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the  foregoing, 
ting  that  the  potatoes  should  bo  fried  crisp  in  hot 
'  fat,  and  that  one  ounce  of  salad-oil  be  used  in- 
)f  butter. 


280  THE  OOOK'8   6UI1>K,   ASP 

No.  707.— BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Boil  the  spronts  green ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
two  onnces  of  fres^  butter,  some  mignionette-pepper, 
nutmeg,  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  and  a  spoonful  of  white 
sauce;  toss  the  whole  well  together  over  the  fire  until 
the  butter  is  incorporated  with  them  ;  dish  them  up  with 
a  border  of  sippets,  and  serve. 

No.  707a.— IRISH  STEW. 

Cut  up  about  four  pounds  of  either  neck,  or  loin  of 
mutton,  into  eight  or  ten  neatly  trimmed  chops,  paring 
away  all  excess  of  fat  and  rough  bone ;  season  plentifoUj 
with  pepper,  and  moderately  with  salt ;  place  the  chops  in 
a  deep  stewpan  or  saucepan,  with  sufficient  water  to  ooter 
in  their  suijiace,  add  eight  good  sized  onions,  put  the  lid 
on  and  set  the  whole  on  the  fire  to  stew  gently  for  half  an 
hour ;  the  stew  must  then  be  removed  from  the  fiie,  the 
liquor  poured  into  a  basin,  and  afker  being  freed  from  all 
grease,  is  to  be  poured  back  to  the  chops ;  add  a  doiea 
peeled  potatoes,  and  a  pint  of  good  stock  or  gravy,  if 
handy,  or  failing  that,  (in  case  that  the   moisture  haa 
been  reduced  to  half  its  original  quantity)  a  like  quantity 
of  water  will  do.     The  whole  is  then  to  be  placed  m 
the  fire  to  boil  gently  for  about  three   quarters  of  an 
hour,   due   care    being  taken  that    the    moisture   doea 
not  become  wholly  absorbed    by    the    stew,   or  bnrnt 
at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan,  as  this  latter  accident 
would  entirely  spoil  the  dish.     As  soon  as  the  Irish  stew 
is  done,  let  it  be  dished  up  as  follows,  viz. :  first  remofe 
the  potatoes  carefully  on  to  a  plate,  and  then  use  a  fox)( 
and  spoon  to  place  the  cutlets  or  chops  neatly  round  the 
dish,  add  the  potatoes  in  their  centre,  and  pour  the  gnfj 
and  onions,  &c^  over  the  whole,  and  serve  hot. 

Note. — A  less  expensive  method  of  making  Irish  stew  is  to  use  tk« 
rcrag  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  or  indeed  any  inferior  pieces  -»f  meat  mart 
ooBvtnieBt,  as  well  as  the  remains  of  a  cookeii  joint  of  beef,  citron,  or  resi 


aOU8S&ElPBB*8  AUD  BUTLKB'B  ASttlBTAMT..  281 


CHAPTEE  XVII. 

BIFFEBENT  METHODS  OF  DBESSING  EQQ8. 


No.  708.— EGGS  A  LA  TRIPE. 

OIL  six  eggs  hard ;  immerse  them  in  cold  water  for 
iree  minntes ;  take  off  the  shells ;  cut  them  in  rather 
lick  slices,  and  put  these  into  a  stewpan.  Next,  cut 
iree  small  onions  in  slices,  separating  the  folds  in 
ings ;  these  must  be  first  parboiled  in  water,  and  then 
fter  being  boiled  in  a  little  milk,  should  be  drained 
pou  a  sieve,  and  placed  with  the  eggs.  Add  two  spoon- 
als  of  good  Bechamel  sauce,  a  scrape  of  garlic,  a  pinch 
f  mignionette-pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  juice  of 
lemon ;  toss  the  whole  well  together  over  the  fire,  and 
'^hen  the  eggs  are  quite  hot,  dish  them  up;  gamihih 
onnd  with  sippets,  and  serve. 

No.  709.— EGGS  AU  GRATIN. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  and  when  done,  take  off  the 
hells,  cut  them  in  slices,  and  set  them  aside  on  a  plate, 
•eit,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  white  sauce  into  a  stew- 
ftn ;  add  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  small 
it  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  mignionotto-popper,  the 
Dlks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  stir 
lis  quickly  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and 
len  withdraw  it  from  the  fire,  l^lace  the  eggs  in  close 
rcular  rows  in  the  dish ;  spread  some  of  the  prepa- 
tion  in  between  each  layer,  observing  that  the  whole 


282  THE  cook's  ouidx,  aho 

must  be  dished  up  in  the  form  of  a  dome ;  smooth  thfl 
surface  over  with  the  remainder  of  the  sauce;  stiew 
some  fried  bread-crumbs  mixed  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  top ;  put  some  fried  sippets  of  bread 
round  the  base,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to  bake  or 
gratinate  for  about  ten  minutes ;  then  send  to  table. 

No.  710.— BUTTERED  EGGS  WITH  TBUFFLBS. 

Break  six  new-laid  eggs  into  a  stewpan;  to  these  add 
two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  one  ounce  of  truffles  (cut  up 
in  very  small  dice,  and  simmered  in  a  little  butter); 
half  a  gill  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg,  mignionette-pepper 
and  salt ;  stir  this  quickly  with  a  wooden  spoon  over  the 
stove-fire  until  the  eggs,  &c.,  begin  to  thicken;  then 
the  stewpan  must  be  withdrawn :  continue  to  work  the 
eggs  with  a  spoon,  observing  that,  although  they  must 
not  be  allowed  to  become  hard  (as  in  fliat  case  the 
preparation  would  be  curdled  and  rendered  unsightly), 
yet,  they  must  be  sufficiently  set  so  as  to  be  fit  to  be 
dished  up.  To  effect  this,  it  is  necessary  to  stick  the 
croutons  or  sippets  round  the  inner  circle  of  the  dish, 
with  a  little  flour  and  white-of-egg  paste ;  dish  up  the 
eggs  in  the  centre  of  these,  and  serve. 

No.  711.— OMELET  WITH  FINE-HEKBS. 

Break  three  eggs  in  a  basin;  to  these  add  a  spooniul 
of  cream,  a  small  pat  of  butter  broken  in  small  pieces,  a 
little   chopped  parsley  and  shalot,  some   pepper  and 
salt ;  then  put  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  in  an  omele^ 
pan  (see  Adams'  Illustrations)  on  the  stove-fire.   ^Vllile 
the  butter  is  melting,  whip  the  eggs,  &c.,  well  together 
iintil  they  become  frothy ;  as  soon  as  the  butter  begiu* 
to  fritter,  pour  the  eggs  into  the  pan,   and  stir  the 
omelet ;  as  the  eggs  appear  to  set,  and  become  firm,  roll 
the  omelet  into  the  form  of  an  oval  cush'on ;  allow  it  to 
acquire  a  golden  colour  on  one  side  over  the  fire,  and 
then  turn  it  out  on  its  dish ;  pour  a  little  thin  sauce,  oi 
gravy  or  half-glaze,  under  it,  and  serve. 


H0USXKIIPIB*8  AND  BUTLSB'S  A8BIBTANT.  288 


No.  712.— OMELET  WITH  SHALOTa 

Prepare  and  finisli  this  omelet  in  all  respects  like  the 
regoing,  except  that  some  chopped  shalots  must  be 
.ded 

No.  713.— OMELET  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE. 

Break  four  eggs  into  a  basin ;  then  add  two  ounces  of 
ated  Parmesan  cheese,  some  mignionette-pepper  and 
little  salt ;  beat  the  whole  well  together,  and  finish 
e  omelet  as  previously  directed. 


No.  714.— OMELET  WITH  KIDNEYS. 

First,  prepare  the  kidneys  with  fine-herbs ;  then  make 
)  omelet  as  directed  for  '  Omelet  with  Fine-herbs ;'  and 
hen  it  is  fried,  before  folding  it  up,  place  the  prepared 
idneys  in  it ;  roll  it  up  into  shape ;  dish  it  up  with  a 
tUe  half-glaze  round  the  base,  and  serve. 

No.  715— OMELET  WITH  OYSTERS. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  foregoing, 
lerely  substituting  some  oysters  prepared  as  for 
Jollops. 

No.  716.— POACHED  EGGS  WXTH  ANCHOVY  TOAST. 

First,  break  some  new-laid  eggs  into  separate  small 
ips ;  then  drop  them  one  after  the  other  into  a  stewpan 
mtaining  boiling  water  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
hite  vinegar  and  a  little  salt ;  keep  this  boiling  while 
le  eggs  are  being  dropped  in  at  the  side  of  the  stew- 
m ;  and  when  they  have  boiled  for  two  minutes,  drain 
lem  on  a  napkin  ;  trim  them,  and  place  each  egg  upon 
square  or  oval  piece  of  dry  toast  spread  with  anchovy 
itter,  over  which  have  been  laid  some  thin  fillets  of 
chovies ;  dish  these  up  in  a  close  circle ;  pour  a  little 
If-glaze  under  them;  place  a  pinch  of  mignionette- 
pper  in  the  centre  of  each  egg,  and  serve. 


sn^  THX  cook's  ouidx,  axd 

No.  717.— POACHED  EGGS  WITH  HAH. 

Poach  the  eggs  as  in  the  foregoing  case,  and 
done,  dish  them  up  on  thin  oval  collops  of  fried 
pour  some  thin  poivrade  sauce  under  them,  and  se: 

No.  718.--EGGS  A  LA  DAUPHINE. 

Boil  six  eggB  hard,  take  off  the  shells,  and  cm 
egg  into  halves  lengthwise;  scoop  out  the  jolkc 
put  them  into  the  mortar,  and  place  the  whites 
dish ;  add  two  ounces  of  butter  to  the  jolks  of 
also  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll  soaked  in  cream, 
chopped  parsley,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt 
two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  pound  the ' 
well  together,  and  then  add  one  whole  egg  and  the 
of  two  others ;  mix  these  well  together  by  pom 
and  use  this  preparation  for  filling  the  whites  of 
kept  in  reserve  on  purpose  :  smooth  them  over  wit 
blade  of  a  small  knife  dipped  in  water,  and  as  the 
filled,  place  them  in  a  dish;  next,  \^nth  some  c 
remaining  part  of  the  preparation,  spread  a  thin  fo 
tion  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  proceed  to  rai* 
eggs  up,  in  three  or  four  tiers,  to  a  pyramidal  fc 
single  egg  crowning  the  whole ;  four  hard-boiled 
of  eggs  must  then  be  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve 
the  dish,  for  them  to  fall  upon — in  shreds  like  t 
celli ;  place  a  border  of  fried  croutons  of  broad  : 
the  base,  and  set  the  eggs  in  the  oven  for  about  t^ 
minutes,  that  thoy  may  be  baked  of  a  bright-y 
colour ;  when  done,  withdraw  them ;  pour  some 
Bechamel  round  the  dish,  and  serve. 

No.  719.— EGGS  A  L'AURORE. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  and  remove  the  shells;  cul 
egg  into  halves,  lengthwise ;  take  the  yolks  out 
place  them  on  a  dish;  shred  the  whites  up  is 
strips,  and  put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  some  a 
Buuce ;  toss  them  over  the  fire  until  quite  hot ;  the: 


HOUfiOEKXXPSB's  AND  BUTLSB's   ASSISTANT.  285 

lem  up  in  the  centre  of  a  border  of  croutons  previously 
aok  round  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  First  place  a  layer 
'  the  whites,  then  shake  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
wese,  after  which  rub  some  of  the  yolks  through  a 
ire  sieye  upon  this,  and  so  on,  repeating  the  same 
itil  the  whole  is  used  up ;  finishing  with  the  yolks  of 
;g8  lesembling  vermicelli :  put  the  dish  in  the  oven, 
ike  of  a  bright-yellow  colour,  and  then  serve. 

No.  720. -EGGS  WITH  NUT-BROWN  BUTTER. 

Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  an  omelet  pan  over  the 
e :  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  fritter,  break  the  eggs  into 
without  disturbing  the  yolks;  season  with  pepper 
d  salt;  fry  the  eggs  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes, 
d  then  remove  them  gently  on  their  dish.    Next,  put 

0  ounces  more  butter  into  the  pan ;  fry  it  of  a  brown 
lour,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  French  vinegar ; 
il  the  whole  together  for  two  minutes ;  pour  it  over 
)  eggs,  and  serve. 

No.  721.-EGGS  A  LA  SUISSE. 

Spread  the  bottom  of  a  silver  dish  with  two  ounces  of 
sh  butter ;  cover  this  with  rather  thin  slices  of  fresh 
uyere  or  any  other  cheese ;  break  eight  whole  eggs 
3n  the  cheese  without  disturbing  the  yolks ;  season 
th  grated  nutmeg,  mignionette-pepper,  and  salt ;  pour 
jill  of  double  cream  on  the  surface ;  strew  the  top 
'h  about  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  and  set  the 
js  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  about  ten  minutes ;  pass 

1  hot  salamander  over  the  top,  and  serve  with  strips 
very  thin  dry  toast  separately  on  a  plate. 

No.  722.— MACARONI  A  LTTAUENNE. 

)reak  up  the  macaroni  in  three-inch  lengths;  and 
;  it  on  to  boil  in  hot  water,  with  a  pat  of  butter,  a 
le  mignionette-pepper  and  salt ;  when  done,  drain  it 
a  napkin,  and  as  soon  as  the  moisture  is  absorbed, 
fci  it  up  in  the  following  manner: — ^first,  put  two 


286  THE  oook'8  ouids,  and 

large  spoonfals  of  good  tomata  sauce  into  a  ste^pan, 

and  boil  it  over  the  stove-fire ;  then  add  two  pats  oi 

fresh  butter  with  as  much  glaze,  and  work  the  whole 

well  together ;  next,  strew  a  layer  of  the  macaroni  on 

the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  pour  some  of  the  sauce 

over  it,  and  strew  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over 

this,  and  so  on — repeating  the  sauce  until  the  dish  u 

fall  enough ;   strew  some  grated  cheese  over  the  top ; 

put  the  macaroni  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  and  thra 

serve 

No.  723.— MACABONI  WITH  CREAM. 

Boil  one  pound  of  macaroni,  and  when  done,  cut  it 
up  in  thriee-inch  lengths,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  four  ounces  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  half  a  gill  of  good  cream ;  season 
with  mignionette-pepper  and  salt,  and  toss  the  whole 
well  together  over  the  stove-fire  until  well  mixed  and 
quite  hot ;  then  shake  it  up  for  a  few  minutes  to  make 
the  cheese  spin,  so  as  to  give  it  a  fibrous  appearance 
when  drawn  up  with  a  fork.  The  macaroni,  when 
dished  up,  must  be  garnished  round  the  base  with 
sippets  of  bread,  and  then  served. 

No.  724.— MACARONI  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  the  macaroni  up  as  above  ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese  (Par- 
mesan and  Gruyere  in  equal  quantities),  four  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  good  Bechamel ;  season 
with  mignionette-pepper  and  salt ;  toss  the  whole  well 
together  over  the  stove-fire  until  well  mixed,  then  pile  it 
up  in  the  centre  of  a  border  of  fried  croutons  of  bread 
(previously  stuck  round  the  bottom  of  the  dish)  ;  strew 
the  surface  with  fine  bread-crumbs  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  in  equal  proportions ;  run  a  little  melted  butter 
through  the  holes  of  a  spoon,  over  the  top  of  the 
macaroni,  and  then  put  it  in  the  oven  to  be  baked  of  t 
bright-yellow  colour :  it  should  then  be  served  quite 
hot. 


housekeepsb's  and  butleb's  assistant.         287 

725.— TIMBALE  OF  MACARONI  A  LA  FLOBBNTINE. 

decorate  a  plain  mould  with  some  nouilles-paste 
ed  with  a  little  sugar ;  then  line  the  mould  with 
.e  thin  strips  of  fine  short-paste,  which  must  be 
)ed  exactly  in  the  same  manner  as  when  lining  a 
rlotte-moidd  with  bread ;  fill  the  timbale  with  flour ; 
3r  it  in  with  some  of  the  paste,  and  bake  it  for  about 

hour ;  it  must  then  be  again  emptied ;  and  all  the 
r  brushed  out  with  a  paste-brush,  put  back  into  the 
dd,  and  kept  in  the  screen  until  wanted.     AVhile 

timbale  is  being  made,  parboil  half  a  pound  of 
)les  macaroni  in  water  for  about  a  quarter  of  an 
r,  then  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and  afterwards  put  it 
•  a  stewpan  with  a  pat  of  butter,  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
same  quantity  of  cream,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  stick 
ranilla,  and  very  little  salt;  then  set  the  macaroni 
K)il  very  gently  over  a  slow  ^e  until  it  is  thoroughly 
e,  by  which  time  the  macaroni  will  have  entirely 
)rbed  the  milk,  &c. ;  then  add  about  one  ounce  of 
ted  Parmesan  cheese;  toss  the  whole  well  together 
r  the  fire;  remove  the  stick  of  vanilla,  and  fill  the 
bale  with  the  macaroni;  then  turn  it  out  of  the 
lid  on  to  its  dish ;  shake  over  it  some  finely-pounded 
IT ;  glaze  it  with  the  hot  salamander,  and  send  to 
e. 

No.  726.— NOUILLES  A  LA  PALERMO. 

[ake  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  nouilles ;  parboil 
n  in  water  with  a  pat  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  for 
it  ten  minutes;  then  di'ain  them  on  a  sieve,  and 
rwards  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
at  of  butter,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  mignionette- 
per  and  salt;  place  a  circular  piece  of  buttered 
3r  on  the  top ;  put  the  lid  on,  and  then  sot  the 
illes  over  a  slow  fire  to  boil  very  gently  until  the 
•le  of  the  milk  has  been  absorbed ;  next,  add  a  gill  of 
m,  four  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  two  pats 
mtter,  and  a  small  piece  of  glaze ;  toss  the  whole 


288  THB  cook's  GDIDJi,  ASD 

well  together  over  the  fire,  and  then  pile  them  np  in  the 
centre  of  a  border  of  croutons  previouisly  stack  ronnd  the 
bottom  of  the  dish;  shake  some  vermicellied  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  sm-- 
face ;  put  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  be  baked  of  a  fine 
bright-yellow  colour,  and  send  to  table. 

No.  727.— TDfBALE  OP  NOUILLBS  A  LA  VANILLE. 

Parboil  the  nonilles  in  water  for  ten  minutes ;  then 
drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  afterwards  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  cream,  a  tablespoonfol  of  ponnded 
vanilla  sugar,  a  pat  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  and  a 
little  salt ;  cover  them  with  a  circular  piece  of  buttered 
paper ;  put  on  the  lid ;  then  set  them  on  a  slow  fire  to 
boil  gently  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  by 
which  time  the  cream  will  be  absorbed  by  the  nouilles ; 
add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  mix  the  whole  well 
together.     Next,  spread  a  plain  round  or  oval  mould 
with  butter;  roll  some  nouilles-paste  out  on  the  slab 
with  the  fingers,  and  use  this  for  the  purpose  of  lining 
the  mould  with — coiled  round  as  closely  as  possible, 
thus  forming  a  kind  of  timbale ;  fill  this  with  the  pre- 
pared nouilles;  place  it  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  put  it 
in  the  oven  to  be  baked,  of  a  fine  light  colour ;  when  it 
is  done,  turn  the  timbale  out  of  the  mould  on  its  dish ; 
shake  some  fine  sifted  sugar  over  it ;  glaase  it  witb  the 
red-hot  salamander,  and  serve. 


boubmkmspwbl'b  and  butlsb'b  abbibtant.         289 


CHAPTEE  XVIII. 
BAISED  PIES  AND  TIMBALES. 


i  No.  728.— CHRISTMAS  PIE. 

i  PiBST,  bone  a  fowl,  a  wild  duck,  a  pheasant,  and  two 
woodoooks,  &o. ;  haying  spread  them  open  on  the  table, 
season  them  with  aromatic  herbs,  No.  07 1 ;  pepper  and 
salt;  garnish  each  with  some  forcemeat,  No.  188;  sew 
them  ap  with  small  twine ;  place  them  on  a  sautapan 
with  a  little  clarified  butter,  and  set  them  to  bake  in  a  mo- 
derate heat,  until  they  are  done  through ;  when  they  must 
be  withdrawn  from  the  oven,  and  put  in  the  cool.  Mean 
while,  place  the  carcasses  in  a  stewpan,  with  two  calfs 
feet,  carrot,  celery,  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two  bay- 
leaves,  thyme,  cloves,  mace,  and  a  little  salt;  fill  up 
with  four  quarts  of  water ;  boil,  kkim,  and  then  set  this 
by  the  side  to  continue  gently  boiling  for  three  hours, 
when  it  must  be  strained,  freed  from  grease,  and  boiled 
down  to  thin  glaze,  and  kept  in  reserve. 

Make  four  pounds  of  hot-water  paste.  No.  949,  and 
use  this  to  line  a  raised  pie-mould  (see  Adams'  Illustra- 
tions) ;  line  the  inside  of  the  pie  with  some  of  the  force- 
meat; arrange  the  baked  fowl,  duck,  &c.,  in  the  centre, 
placing  at  the  same  time  layers  of  forcemeat  and  season- 
mg,  until  all  the  preparation  is  u«ed  up ;  put  a  cover  of 
paste  on  the  top ;  weld  it  all  round  ;  cut  the  edge  even ; 
pinch  it  with  pastry-pincers  (see  Adams'  Illustrations) ; 
ornament  the  top  with  leaves  of  paste ;  egg  it  over,  and 


290  THB  OOOK^B  OUIDm,  AMP 

bake  the  pie  for  about  two  hours  and  a  half;  and  wii 
it  comes  out  of  the  oven,  pour  in  the  game-glaze  thronj 
a  funnel;  put  it  in  the  larder  to  get  cold;  and  previous 
to  sending  it  to  table,  remove  the  lid,  garnish  the  t( 
with  aspic  jelly ;  place  the  pie  on  a  napkin,  in  its  di& 
and  ornament  the  base  with  a  border  of  fresh-picb 
parsley. 

Note, — The  addition  of  truffles  would  be  an  improv 

ment. 

No.  729.— YORKSHIRE  Pffi. 

Bone  a  goose,  a  hare,  two  grouse,  and  four  snipe 
spread  these  out  on  the  table;  season  with  aroma 
spices,  No.  948  ;  pepper  and  salt ;  fill  them  with  poi 
sausage-meat  prepared  for  the  purpose ;  sew  them  up  w: 
string ;  bake  them  until  done,  and  use  them  to  finisl 
pie,  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  indicated  in  the  p 
ceding  number,  the  only  difference  being,  that  you  m 
add  some  thick  slices  of  cooked  ham,  and  use  sausage-m 
instead  of  the  forcemeat  therein  recommended.  ^V1 
the  pie  is  baked,  pour  in  the  reduced  stock  from 
bones ;  and  when  cold  the  next  day,  garnish  the  top  ir 
aspic  jelly. 

No.  730.- DEVONSHIRE  PIE. 

Make  t^'^o  pounds  of  short-paste.  No.  951,  and  v 
this  line  a  buttered  oblong  tin  mould ;  fill  the  pie  v 
alternate  slices  of  griskin  of  pork,  of  bacon,  and  app 
season  between  each  layer  with  chopped  onion,  pep 
and  salt,  and  chopped  sage-leaves ;  pour  in  a  little  g 
gravy ;  cover  over  the  top  with  paste ;  weld  it  round 
edge;  cut  it  even ;  pinch  it  round ;  egg  it  over,  . 
bake  it  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

No.  731.— LEICESTERSHIRE  PIE. 

Cut  up  the  pork  in  square  pieces — fat  and  lear 

equal  proportions ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  an 

small  quantity  of  chopped  sage-leaf,  and  set  this  at 

on  a  plate  :   next,  make  two  pounds  of  hot-water  pa 

using  fresh  hog's-lard  \iiB\e^d  o^XmXXet  iot  'Osx^  v^"^ 


housikeipxb's  and  butlib's  assibtant.         291 

nd  witli  this  paste  lino  a  tin  pie  mould — previousl)' 
greased  inside  with  butter ;  fill  up  the  pie  with  tlie  sea- 
oned  xx)rk ;  ^ut  the  lid  on ;  weld  it  round ;  cut  the  edge 
tven ;  pindi  it,  egg  it  over  the  top,  and  bake  it  for  about 
n  hour  and  three-quarters.  The  pie  in  supposed  to  con- 
ain  about  three  pounds  of  meat. 

No.  732.-FRBNCH  TIMBALE. 
Daub  or  interlard — that  is,  run  long  square  pieces 
>f  seasoned  bacon  by  means  of  a  largo  daubing,  or  lard- 
ng-pin  (see  Adams*  Illustrations),  through  about  throe 
x>unds  of  white  veal  cut  from  the  leg  ;  cut  this  in  thick 
lices  across  the  grain  of  the  moat,  and  put  them  aside 
m  a  plate.   Next  prepare  some  forcemeat,  No.  188  ;  and 
nake  two  pounds  of  short-paste,  No.  952,  and  use  two- 
thirds  of  this  to  line  a  plaon  round  or  oval  mould  pre- 
rioQsly  greased  with  butter :  line  the  pie  with  a  thin  coat- 
ii^of  the  forcemeat,  and  fill  it  witli  alternate  layers  of  the 
dioofl  of  veal,  cooked  ham,  and  forcemeat,  taking  care 
3  season  with  aromatic  spices,  No.  671,  and  popper  and 
dt  in  between  each  layer ;  cover  in  the  timbale  with  a 
lled-out  piece  of  the  paste ;  weld  the  edge ;  cut  it  even, 
d  pinch  it  round  with  paatry-pincers  (see  Adams'  II- 
rtrations) ;  ornament  the  surface  with  leaves  cut  out 
the  iMuste ;  egg  it  over,  and  bake  it  for  about  two  hours 
I  a  half;  and  about  half  an  hour  after  it  is  removed 
Q  the  oven,  make  a  hole  at  the  top,  to  pour  in  the 
glaze  made  from  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the 
and  a  calfs  foot,  &c. 

No.  783.— BIOHMOND  EEL-PIE. 

in,  draw,  and  cleanse  two  good-sized  Thames  eels ; 

)tr  the  fins,  and  cut  thorn  up  in  pieces  about  three 

\  long,  and  put  these  in  a  stewpan  with  two  oimces 

ler,  some  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  a  very 

dialot,  nutmeg,  popper  and  salt,  two  glasses  of 

one  of  Harvey  sauce,  and  barely  enough  water 

)r  the  surface  of  the  eels ;  sot  them  on  the  fire, 

soon   as  they   come   to   a  boil,  let  them   be 

u  2 


292  THJE  COOK'S  CnilDS,   ASD 

removed,  and  the  pieces  of  eels  placed  carefdlljin 
disji ;  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  kneaded  with  two  * 
of  flour,  to  the  sauce ;  and  having  stirred  it  an  t 
to  thicken,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  ponr  it  o^ 
pieces  of  eels  in  the  pie-dish ;  place  some  hard  y 
Qgg^  on  the  top ;  cover  with  puff-paste ;  omame 
top ;  egg  it  over,  bake  for  about  an  hour,  and  serve, 
hot  or  cold- 
No.  734.— TO  CUBE  HAMS. 

Prepare  the  following  ingredients  in  the  pi 
trough :  viz., — ^to  six  pounds  of  common  salt  ad 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  sal-prunella, 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  twenty  bay-] 
thyme,  marjoram,  and  winter-savoury  in  proportioi 
ounce  of  bruised  cloves  and  mace,  and  an  ounce 
maii;a  peppercorns,  and  four  cloves  of  garlic.  Witl 
cold  hands  rub  this  mixture  thoroughly  all  over  the 
for  five  successive  mornings ;  and  then  add  som< 
lees :  the  hams  should  remain  in  this  pickle  fortei 
longer,  being  turned  over  every  morning  in  ord< 
they  may  become  well  impregnated  with  the  flavc 

At  the  end  of  a  fortnight,  the  hams  being  suffic 
pickled  and  salted,  they  must  be  put  in  press  be 
boards,  with  heavy  weights  to  press  them  flat ; 
the  end  of  twenty-four  hours  they  must  be  rubbe( 
with  pea-meal  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  litth 
they  are  then  to  be  smoked,  for  which  purpose 
should  be  arranged  upon  racks  in  a  square  shed  sc 
that  none  of  the  smoke  can  issue  except  throng 
hole  left  purposely  at  the  top  for  a  chimney :  the 
must  be  placed  at  about  five  feet  from  the  fire,  wl 
to  be  managed  as  follows :  viz., — first,  place  small 
of  dry  red  sawdust  mixed  with  a  small  propoit 
juniper  berries,  or  branches,  at  about  a  foot  dii 
from  each  other  ;  and  as  soon  as  the  heaps  of  sawdt 
well  lighted,  lay  some  branches  of  wood  containii 
across  them ;  this  not  only  increases  the  amoi 
smoke,  but  it  also  gives  flavour  to  the  hams :  the  sm 


HOUSEEXXPBR's  and   BUTLSB  8  A8SISTAKT.  293 

must  last  about  five  days.  The  hams,  when  removed  from 
the  smokmg-kiln,  are  to  be  placed  in  a  cool,  dry  atmo- 
sphere, and  will  be  fittest  for  dressing  in  about  six  months 
after  curing. 

Let  it  be  understood  that  the  quantity  of  ingredients 
named  in  the  first  part  of  these  directions  would  serve 
for  a  couple  of  hams  only ;  but,  when  curing  large  quan- 
tities of  hams,  it  is  most  proper  to  calculate  the  different 
proportions  of  the  ingredients,  by  allowing  four  ounces 
of  salt  to  the  poimd  of  meat. 

No.  735.— TO  CUKE  BACON. 

Bear  in  mind  that  cleanliness  is  an  important  con- 
sideration in  the  operation  of  salting;  it  is  necessary 
therefore  to  pay  strict  attention  to  the  scalding  out  the 
bacon  troughs  before  using  them,   and  also  to  wash 
your  hands  in  cold  water  with  soap  previously  to  your 
tnmine  the  bacon  over  in  the  troughs,  and  rubbing  it 
with  siut,  <&o.   The  process  is  to  be  managed  as  follows : — 
to  every  pound  of  meat  allow  four  ounces  of  salt ;  and 
to  every  ten  pounds  of  salt,  six  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two 
>imces  of  sal-prunella,  and  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar ; 
nb  the  salt,  &c.,  well  into  the  bacon  every  morning  for 
bout  twelve  successive  days,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time 
t  the  sides  of  bacon  be  pressed  between  boards  to  keep 
em  flat,  for  twenty-four  hours  ;  after  which,  rub  them 
^11  over  with  peameal  mixed  with  salt,  and  smoke  them 
the  kiln  in  the  same  manner  as  recommended  for 

OS. 

No.  786.— WELSH  HAMS. 

.  Welsh  ham  consists  of  a  fat  leg  of  mutton,  cured 

smoked  like  hams;  for  the  preparation  of  which 

w  the  directions  contained  in  ]So.  734;  and  when 

t  to  dress  Welsh  hams  for  the  table,  remember  that 

ce  of  fat  bacon  should  be  cooked  in  the  same  pot, 

urish  them  and  prevent  them  from  being  dry,  and 

•y  be  cut  in  slices  and  sei*ved  with  these  hams,  as 

lave  little  or  no  fat  of  their  own. 


^94  THX  'JOOK'B  aUIDB.   AXV 


CHAPTEB  XTX, 

OAKES  IN  GENEBAL. 


No.  7S7.— BRIOCHE-PASTE. 

Ingredients. — One  pound  of  flour,  ten  ounces  of  butter, 
half  an  ounce  of  German-yeast,  a  teaspoonful  each  oi 
salt  and  sugar,  and  about  seven  e^s. 

Put  one-fourth  part  of  the  flour  upon  the  slab ;  spread 
it  out  to  form  a  well,  then  place  the  yeast  in  the  centre, 
and  proceed  to  dissolve  it  in  a  little  tepid  water ;  when 
this  is  effected,  add  sufficient  water  to  mix  the  whole 
into  a  rather  smooth  paste,  knead  this  into  the  form  of 
.1  round  ball,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  capable  of  containing 
three  times  its  quantity,  score  it  round  the  sides  with  a 
knife,  put  the  lid  on,  and  ^et  it  to  rise  in  a  rather  warm 
placie :  in  winter  it  may  be  put  into  the  iscreen,  but  in 
hot  weather  the  fermentation  will  proceed  more  satis- 
factorily if  it  is  merely  placed  on  the  kitchen-table,  or 
some  such  place  of  moderate  warmth.  This  part  of  the 
operation  is  called  setting  the  sponge.  Next  put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour  on  the  slab,  and  spread  it  out  in 
the  centre  to  form  the  well;  then  place  the  salt  and 
sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  water  to  dissolve  these,  after 
which  the  butter  must  be  added ;  break  in  six  eggs,  and 
work  the  whole  together  with  the  hands  until  well 
mixed ;  first,  working  it  between  the  hands,  and  then 
ruhhing  it  with  both  ^&t^  h^ld  ^?k.t  oiv  the  slab,  and 
moving  them  to  and  ixo,  bo  as  \^  ^Xiotwv^K^"^  ^^^s»«ifc  ^^xw^ 


HOUSSKSSPSB'S  AND   BUTLEB'S   ASSIBTAl^T.  295 

remaining  lumps  in  tlio  paste.  By  the  time  the  paste 
is  mixed,  the  sponge  will  probably  have  risen  suffi- 
ciently :  to  be  perfect,  it  must  rise  to  three  times  its 
original  size ;  when  spread  out  on  the  paste  prepared  to 
receive  it,  it  should  present  the  appearance  of  a  sponge, 
from  which  it  takes  its  name.  Both  the  above  should 
be  then  immediately  gently,  but  thoroughly  mixed.  A. 
napkin  must  be  spread  in  a  wooden  bowl  or  basin,  some 
flour  shaken  over  it,  and  the  brioche-paste  lifted  into  it ; 
then  {shake  a  little  flour  over  the  paste,  and  after  throw- 
ing the  ends  of  the  napkin  over  all,  set  the  bowl  con- 
taining the  paste  in  a  cool  place,  free  from  any  current 
of  air.  It  is  usual  to  make  this  kind  of  paste  lale  in  the 
evening,  previously  to  the  day  on  which  it  is  requiied 
for  Use.  The  first  thing  on  the  following  morning  the 
brioche-paste  must  be  turned  off  the  napkin  on  to  the 
slab;  then  shake  some  flour  under  and  over  it,  and  fold 
tbe  paste  over  half  a  dozen  times,  pressing  it  down  with 
tbe  knuckles  each  time  ;  put  the  paste  back  again  into 
tbe  bowl,  in  the  same  way  as  before  ;  and  about  three 
bours  afterwards,  knead  it  again  in  a  similar  manner 
previously  to  its  being  baked.  If  the  paste,  when 
finished,  appears  to  be  full  of  small  globules  of  air,  and 
imperfectly  elastic  to  the  touch,  it  is  certain  to  be  well 
niade,  and  when  baked,  will  be  both  light  and  of  a 
bright,  clear  colour. 

If  the  paste  is  intended  to  be  made  into  one  brioche 
only,  take  five-sixths  of  it ;  mould  this  into  the  form  of  a 
round  ball  or  cushion,  and  place  it  in  a  plain  mould  or 
paper  case,  described  page  296  (previously  spread  with 
butter),  with  the  smooth  surface  uppermost;  press  it 
down  in  the  case  with  the  knuckles,  and,  after  moulding 
the  remaining  piece  of  paste  in  a  similar  manner,  first 
^etthe  surface  of  the  other  part  over  with  the  paste-brush 
^ipi>ed  in  water,  and  then,  after  inserting  the  pointed  end 
of  this  into  the  centre  of  that  portion  of  the  briociie  which 
^  been  already  placed  in  the  case,  press  the  head  down 
^nit  with  the  back  of  the  hand ;  egg  the  brioche  over 


396  THB  CXXIK'B  GUmS,  AHD 

wiUi  a  paste-brash ;  score  the  sides  slightly,  in  a  slanting 
direction ;  place  it  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  put  it  in  the 
OTcn  (at  moderate  heat).  As  soon  as  the  brioche  begins 
to  rise,  and  has  acquired  a  slight  degree  of  colour,  let  it 
be  covered  over  with  a  sheet  of  paper :  about  one  Hour 
will  suffice  to  bake  a  laige  brioche  of  the  quantity  of 
paste  described  in  this  article. 

NoU, — Brioches  may  be  varied  in  their  form,  when 
intended  to  be  served  as  feuicy-bread  for  breakfistft,  Ac ; 
in  which  case,  they  should  be  moulded  in  the  shape  of 
twists,  fingers,  rings,  &c.  When  served  on  the  refresh- 
ment-table, at  routs,  public  break£Eists,  balls,  JK^  dried 
cherries,  citron,  candied-orange,  or  lemon-peel,  pine- 
apple, or  angelica,  steeped  in  some  kind  of  liqueur,  may  be 
introduced ;  in  either  of  these  cases,  previously  to  mix- 
ing in  the  fiiiit,  part  of  the  paste  must  be  reserved, 
which,  after  being  rolled  out,  must  be  used  to  enclo^ 
the  other  part  of  the  brioche.  This  precaution  is 
necessary  to  prevent  the  fruit  from  protruding  throng 
the  paste,  as  it  becomes  calcined  by  the  heat  of  the 
oven,  and  gives  an  unsightly  appearance  to  the  cake. 
^Vhen  fruit  has  been  mixed  in  a  brioche,  it  should  he 
(when  baked)  glazed  with  fine  sugar  by  the  salamander. 
Gruyere,  and  Parmesan  cheese,  in  equal  proportions,  are 
sometimes  introduced  in  a  brioche,  for  a  second-couise 
remove :  the  first  should  be  cut  up  in  dice,  the  latter 
grated.  As  in  the  above  cases,  this  kind  of  brioche 
must  be  enclosed  in  a  portion  of  the  paste  reserved  fof 
that  purpose. 

Note, — The  case  alluded  to,  page  295,  is  thus  made:— 
for  a  large  brioche  intended  to  be  served  as  a  second-coni* 
remove,  take  a  large  sheet  of  Bristol  board,  and  cut  a 
band  from  this,  measuring  about  two  feet  long  by  eight 
inches  broad;  the  two  ends  should  be  sewn  together 
with  strong  thread,  and  some  small  bands  of  papc'i 
smeared  over  with  flour-and-water  paste,  should  h® 
stuck  over  the  sewing  to  make  it  more  secure.  This 
hoop  should  then  be  placed  upon  a  circular  piece  of  th^ 


houseksepkb'b  and  butlxb's  assistant.         297 

steboard,  out  to  fit  its  circumference,  and  buth  tbese 
ist  be  securely  fastened  together  by  placing  small 
ips  of  paper  pasted  over  all  round  the  angle  of  the 
ttom  of  the  case ;  these  must  be  placed  close  together, 
d  crosswise,  with  one  end  fastened  under  the  case, 
lile  the  other  is  lapped  round  the  angle,  and  fastened 
the  side. 

These  stiips  of  paper,  after  becoming  very  dry, 
onld  receive  another  row  over  them,  to  make  the  cause 
ronger. 

No.  738.— BABA,  OE  POLISH  CAKE. 

Ingredients: — Two   pounds   of   flour,   twenty  ounces 

butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  muscatel 
isins,  four  ounces  of  currants,  two  ounces  of  candied- 
tron,  a  good  pinch  of  sa£Eron,  two  wineglasses  of 
^dy,  and  the  same  quantity  of  rum,  half  an  ounce 

salt,  about  fifteen  eggs,  and  one  ounce  and  a  half 

German-yeast. 

First,  set  the  sponge  with  one-fourth  part  of  the  flour 
id  the  yeast,  in  the  same  way  as  directed  for  prepar- 
g  brioche.    Then  spread  out  the  remainder  of  the  flour 

as  to  form  a  hollow  in  the  centre ;  place  in  this  the 
itter  and  salt,  previously  dissolved  with  a  spoonful 

water,  four  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  and  break  in 
^een  eggs :  mix  the  whole  thoroughly,  working  the 
«te  with  the  hands  on  the  slab.  When  this  is  efifected, 
ither  the  paste  up  closely,  and  take  up  portions  of  it 
ith  the  hands,  and  jerk  or  throw  these  down  again 
I  the  other  part  of  the  paste;  continue  working  it  in 
lis  fashion  for  five  minutes,  then,  if  the  sponge  is 
efficiently  risen,  spread  it  out  over  the  paste,  and  mix 
>th  together  lightly.  A  large  mould  should  now  be 
•read  with  butter,  and  lined  with  a  thin  coating  of 
le  paste,  and  as  soon  as  this  has  been  efifected,  all 
'6  fruit,  the  rum,  the  brandy,  and  an  infusion  of  the 
kffi'on  must  be  added,  the  whole  of  which  must  be 
istantly  well  mixed,  and  lifted  into  the  mould. 


298  TUB  OOOK'8  OUIDV,  AND 

The  baba  should  next  be  Bct  to  rise  gradually,  in  0 
place  where  the  temperature  is  moderate,  and  free  from 
any  current  of  air ;  and  as  soon  as  it  has  risen  in  a 
Katisfactory  manner,  which  may  easily  be  known  by 
its  increasing  sufficiently  in  quantity  (through  fermen- 
tation) lo  nearly  fill  the  mould — although  at  first  only 
half  filled — the  baba  should  be  immediately  placed  in 
the  oven  on  a  thick  baking-sheet,  with  a  thick  roll  ot 
paper  round  the  bottom  of  the  mould  to  protect  the 
baba  from  receiving  too  much  heat  at  first.  From  one 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  will  suffice  to  bake  it. 
Particular  care  should  be  taken  in  baking  the  baba 
to  prevent  its  acquiring  a  deep  colour :  to  obviate  thi«, 
it  must  be  baked  in  an  oven  of  moderate  heat. 


No.  739.— COMPIEGNE  CAKE. 

Ingredients : — Two  pounds  of  flour,  twenty-two  ounces 
jf  butter,  half  a  pint  of  double  cream,  six  ouncea  of 
pounded  sugar,  two  wineglasses  of  maraschino,  one 
junce  and  a  half  of  German-yeast,  fifteen  eggs,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  salt. 

Set  the  sponge  with  one-fourth  part  of  the  flour  and 
the  yeast  in  the  usual  way,  see  Brioche,  Ko.  737,  and 
while  it  is  rising,  prepare  the  paste  as  follows :— place 
the  remainder  of  the  flour  on  the  marble  slab ;  spread  it 
it  out  in  the  centre  to  form  the  well ;  place  in  this  the 
salt  and  sugar  (with  a  very  little  water  to  dissolve 
the  salt),  the  butter  and  eggs,  and  proceed  to  niix 
these  thoroughly  in  the  same  way  as  brioche;  ju«*t 
before  adding  the  sponge,  mix  in  the  maraschino  and 
the  whipped  cream.  The  paste  must  be  instantly 
lifted  into  an  appropriate-sized  mould  previously  spread 
with  butter,  and  deposited  in  a  comparatively  cool  plw-* 
to  rise,  or  ferment  in  the  usual  manner ;  as  soon  as  it 
has  nearly  reached  the  surface  of  the  mould,  stick  * 
band  of  paper  round  the  ed^^e,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  t« 
^ake  at  a  very  moderate  heat,  remembering  that  •^ 


UUV6KK£liF£B'8   AND   BUTLEK  S   ASSISTANT.  2U9 

ial  oharaoteristio  of  this  kind  of  cake  is  a  light 

• 

is  customary  to  eat  the  Compi^gne  cake  hot ;  and 

erved  in  various  ways. 

en  turned  out  of  the  mould,  u  8mall  piece  should 

cen  out  of  the  centre  of  the  top,  and  a  class  of 

ohino  poured  in  through  the  opening  ;  or  the  cake 

te  cut  up  in  horizontal  Blices,  half  an  inch  thick, 

ireviously  to  putting  them  together  again,  some 

it  marmalade  may  be  placed  between  each. 

ed  cherries  and   angelica   may  bo  introduced   in 

opposition  of   these   cakes,   previously   to  their 

baked. 

No.  740.— GEliMAN  KOUGLAUFFE. 

redients : — Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  and  a 
3r  of  butter,  eight  whole  eggs,  and  eight  yolks  ; 
od  a  half  ounce  of  German-yeast,  four  ounces  of 
,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon-powder,  and  grated 
ipeel,  or  the  rind  of  lenum-peel  rubbed  on  lump- 
aiid  afterwards  scraped  off;  half  an  ounce  of  salt, 
I  pint  of  double  creiim,  and  six  ounces  of  Jordan 
ids. 

St,  place  the  butter  in  a  convenient-sized  white 
3n-pan,  and  work  it  with  a  clean  wooden  spoon 
lOut  ten  minutes,  by  which  time  the  butter  should 
it  the  appearance  of  a  thick  cream ;  the  cinnamon, 
I  and  sugar,  the  pounded  sugar,  about  one -fourth 
)f  the  flour,  and  three  eggs,  should  then  bo  added, 
;he  whole  quickly  worked  together  for  a  few 
es ;  then  add  the  remainder  of  tlie  flour  and  eggs 
ally,  still  continuing  to  work  the  paste  with  a 
m  spoon.  When  the  whole  has  been  used  up, 
i  the  paste  out  in  the  centre,  and  add  the  yeast 
iously  dissolved  with  the  salt  in  the  cream  made 

for  the  purpose) ;  work  the  whole  thoroughly, 
pour  this  batter  into  a  large  mould,  previously 
I  with  butter ;  split  the  almonds  and  place  them 

the  inside  of  the  mould  in  close  order.    Bake 


302  THB  COOK'S  OUIDS.   AKD 

perature,  to  admit  of  its  rising  gradually  and  satis- 
factorily, place  the  remainder  of  the  fionr  in  a  large 
white  pan  or  basin ;  hollow  out  the  centre,  and  haTing 
first  placed  therein  the  salt  moistened  with  a  teaspoonfa) 
of  water,  the  butter,  sugar,  and  ten  whole  eggs  broken, 
proceed  to  manipulate  the  whole  with  the  right  hand, 
beating  up  the  paste  until  it  easily  leaves  the  sides  of 
the  pan ;  you  then  break  in  the  remainder  of  the  eggs, 
— two  at  a  time,   until   the  paste  has  absorbed  the 
whole;   and,  after  having   continued  to  work  it  five 
minutes    longer,   proceed  to  fill  an  appropriate-dzed 
mould   with  it,  in  the  following  manner : — ^first,  let 
the  inside  of  the  mould  be  well  buttered,  after  which 
strew  the  shred    almonds  equally  over  and  about  the 
surface  of  the  interior  ;  next,  work  the  paste  up  again 
for  a  minute  or  two,  and  put  a  sufficient  quantitj  into 
the  mould  to  rather  more  than  half  fill  it. 

You  now  place  the  savarin  in  a  moderate  tempera- 
ture to  rise  until  it  has  nearly  filled  the  mould ;  when, 
after  first  sticking  a  broad  band  of  thick  paper  ronnd 
the  upper  part  of  the  mould,  so  afc  effectually  to  prevent 
the  batter  from  running  over  the  sides  of  the  mould 
while  it  is  being  baked,  put  it  in  an  oven  of  moderate 
heat,  and  bake  it  for  about  two  hours.  When  done, 
turn  the  savarin  out  of  the  mould,  and  after  mnning 
a  knife  into  several  parts  of  the  surface,  pour  geo^J 
a  rather  thick  orange-syrup  containing  a  glassful  of 
cura9oa  over  and  into  ihe  savarin,  and  send  to  table 
quite  warm. 

This  kind  of  cake  is  sometimes,  in  order  to  vary  its 
appearance,  after  being  first  well  soaked  with  a  warn) 
rich  syrup,  rolled  all  over  in  orange  or  lemon  sugar. 

No.  744.— SAVOY  CAKE. 

Ingredients : — One  pound  of  the  finest  quality  of  sugar 
(pounded),  fourteen  eggs,  four  ounces  and  a  half  of  tfij 
finest  flour,  and  four  ounces  and  a  half  of  Brown  ^ 
Poison's  patent  corn-flour. 


dousekskpjeb's  and  butleb's  assistant.         808 

(t,  separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  eggs, 
;  care  not  to  drop  the  least  portion  of  the  yolks 
he  whites,  as  any  mixture  of  these  renders  it 
dble  to  whisk  the  whites  firm.  The  yolks  must 
t  into  a  kitchen-basin,  and  the  whites  into  an 
>wl,  to  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  until  used;  add 
igar  to  the  yolks ;  throw  in  as  much  salt  as  will 
on  a  sixpence,  and  either  some  vanilla,  lemon,  or 
3-sugar,  or  else,  a  few  drops  of  any  kind  of 
le,  such  as  orange,  lemon,  orange-flowers,  vanilla, 
ter-almonds.  Work  these  togetiber  with  a  wooden 
,  until  the  whole  presents  the  appearance  of  a 
creamy  batter.  The  whites  must  now  be  whisked 
.  firm  substantial  snowy  froth;  and  while  this  is 

on,  let  both  the  flours  be  well  mixed  in  with 
atter.  As  soon  as  the  whites  are  satisfactorily 
ed,  proceed  to  mix  them  in  with  the  batter :  they 
be  added  in  small  quantities  at  first,  imtil  it  has 
le  smoothly  diluted ;  the  whole  of  what  remains 
i  then  be  added,  and  gently,  yet  thoroughly, 
[.  The  batter  thus  prepared  must  now  be  gently 
i  into  a  mould  previously  got  ready  for  the  pur- 
in  the  following  manner : — about  one  pound  of 
or  veal-suet  should  be  first  chopped  very  fine, 
melted  down  in  a  stewpan ;  after  it  has  been 
ed  through  a  napkin,  pour  this  into  the  mould, 
it  round  in  all  directions,  so   that  the   fat  may 

all  the  angles  and  recesses ;  it  must  then  be 
d  out,  and  the  mould  should  be  turned  upside- 
on  a  plate,  and  allowed  to  stand  in  a  warm  place 
few  minutes  that  the  fat  may  be  entirely  drained 
About  one  pound  of  the  finest-sifted  sugar  should 
be   immediately  put  in  the   mould,  and   shaken 

in  it,  in  order  that  it  may  effectually  cover  the 
)  of  the  inside  of  the  mould  with  a  perfectly 
h  white  surface  or  coating.  Care  must  be  taken 
3id  leaving  a  greater  quantity  of  fat  adhering- to 
ides  of  the  mould  than  is  positively  necessary; 


B04  THX  COOKS  GUIDE,   AKD 

for,  if  there  be  too  thick  a  coating  of  sugar  in  tbe 
mould,  the  Savoy  cake  will  be  more  difficult  to  bik0 
of  a  light  colour ;  the  heat  of  the  oven  being  liable  to 
partially  calcine  the  sugar,  and  thus  darken  its  hoe, 
and  spoil  its  beauty. 

When  the  Savoy  cake  is  ready  to  be  baked,  tie  a 
broad  band  of  paper  (folded  in  three)  round  the  bue, 
and  put  a  few  wood-ashes  on  the  baking-sheet,  pre- 
viously to  placing  the  cake  on  it  before  putting  it  in 
the  oven,  which  must  be  of  very  moderate  heat;  par- 
ticular care  must  be  taken  to  keep  it  closed  as  mncn  as 
possible  while  tlio  cake  is  baking,  and  also  not  to 
increase  itw  temperatuio  afterwards :  this  mav  be  eaAj 
avoided  if  the  oven  be  substantially  built;  by  iti 
being  properly  heated  at  first,  it  will  then  retain  for 
some  time  an  even  temperature. 

It  is  impossible  to  determine  the  exact  length  of 
time  that  this,  or  indeed  any  other  cake  should  remaiu 
in  the  oven  before  it  is  done ;  this  will  mainly  depend 
upon  the  construction  of  the  oven,  and  partly  on  the 
necessity  there  may  be  for  occasionally  opening  it 
during  the  process  of  baking  the  cake.  The  best  way 
to  ascertain  whether  the  cake  is  done,  is  to  run  a 
wooden  skewer  d(nvn  the  centre,  and  if,  when  with- 
drawn, the  skewer  is  drj-,  and  free  from  any  portion  ol 
the  cake  in  an  unbaked  state,  it  will  be  safe  to  tnm  it 
out  of  the  mould :  it  should  then  be  of  a  light  colour 
and  smooth  surface. 

Note, — Savoy  cakes  may  also  bo  made  by  using  twelve, 
sixteen,  or  even  twenty  eggs  to  one  pound  of  sugar; 
but  when  a  cake  of  large  size  is  required,  the  propor- 
tions must  bo  at  the  rate  of  twelve,  fourteen,  or  at  the 
utmost  sixteen  eggs  to  one  pound  of  sugar :  even  in  the 
latter  case,  such  batter  would  not  prove  successful 
whore  f(;ur  pounds  are  required  to  fill  one  mould. 
Savoy-cake  batter,  made  in  the  proportion  of  sixtefl» 
or  twenty  eggs  to  one  i)ounfl  of  sugar,  is  best  adapUd 
for  small  sponge-cakes,  finger-biscuits,  drops,  &c. 


HOUBKKMPMB'B  AND  BUTLEB'S  ASSISTANT.  S05 

6  whites  must  be  whisked  slowly  at  first,  increasing 
notion  of  the  hand  gradually  until  it  reaches  the 
est  possible  speed  ;  the  motion  of  the  whisk  mnst 
ept  up  at  this  rate  until  the  whites  are  become 
iently  firm,  when  they  must  be  instantly  mixed 
the  batter,  otherwise  they  are  liable,  by  partial 
nposition,  to  lose  their  consistency. 


No.  745.— FINGER,  OR  NAPLES  BISCUITS. 

epare  the  batter  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  case  ; 
nil  a  biscuit-forcer  (see  Adams'  Illustrations)  with 
I  of  it,  and  after  securely  folding  down  the  open  end, 
9ed  to  use  the  batter  in  the  following  manner : — cut 
)et  of  foolscap  paper  in  two ;  fold  these  lengthwise, 
rder  to  mark  a  straight  line  along  the  centre  of  the 
sheets ;  the  forcer  must  then  be  held  in  the  right 
I,  pressing  the  batter  out  by  working  the  thumb 
\  it,  while  the  pointed  end  must  be  guided  with  the 
band.  In  this  manner  the  biscuits  must  be  spread, 
ither  dropped,  in  straight  lines,  resembling  fingers, 
it  three  inches  long  by  half  an  inch  wide ;  they 
lid  form  two  rows,  being  divided  by  the  line  in  the 
re  of  the  paper.  When  the  sheet  is  full,  place  it 
1  a  large  sheet  of  kitchen-paper,  containing  about 
pound  of  the  finest-sifted  sugar,  placed  in  the  form 

ridge  along  the  upper  part  of  the  paper  as  it  lies 
the  table  before  you;  the  sheet  containing  the 
tiits  being  ])laced  just  below  the  sugar,  it  will  only 
accessary  to  lift  up  the  other  paper  at  each  comer 
1  the  hands,  and  by  giving  it  a  slight  jerk,  the  sugar 
i  be  thrown  on  to  the  biscuits  ;  then,  by  taking  hold 
be  paper — holding  the  biscuits  at  each  upper  comer, 

gently  shaking  it,  as  it  is  held  up  in  a  perpendicular 
ition — the   sugar  will  be  made  to   slide  over  the 
^le  at  once.     By  this  means  the  biscuits  are  effeo- 
Hy  glazed  without  waste, 
l^c  finger-biscuits  must  be  immediately  placed  on  a 


306  THB  COOK'S  6UIDK.   AMD 

baking-sheet,  and  put  in  the  oven  (at  very  modeiitfe 
heat) ;  about  a  qnarter  of  an  honr  will  suffice  to  bib 
them.  Wlien  done,  they  should  be  of  a  veiy  h^^ 
yellow  colour. 

Xote. — With  the  same  kind  of  batter,  and  by  using  a 
biBcait-forcer,  the  shape  of  these  small  biscuits  may  be 
easily  varied  according  to  taste  or  £uicy.  The^  bimiit' 
forcerh  are  also  made  of  tin,  resembling  the  point  of  a 
fdnnel  in  shape :  they  have  a  bag  of  wat»h4eather,  or 
sanvas  cloth,  affixed  ronnd  the  npper  part,  with  t 
string  mnning  through  the  top,  which,  when  the  btg 
is  filled  with  batter,  is  drawn  tight ;  thns  effectual^ 
preventing  it  from  escaping  at  the  npper  end  while  H 
is  forced  out  at  the  point  below.  The  use  of  tbif 
utensil,  however,  is  objectionable,  from  the  leather  or 
canvas  contracting  a  nauseous  odour.  In  other  n* 
spects,  it  answers  the  purpose  well  enough  (see  Adanv 
Illastrations). 

No.  746.-PLXJ1I-CAKE. 

Ingredients  required : — One  pound  and  a  half  of  flow, 
one  ponnd  and  a  half  of  butter,  one  pound  of  fine  sngtf. 
one  poimd  of  dried  cherries  (slightly  chopped),  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  currants,  one  pound  and  a  half 
of  candied-orange,  lemon,  and  citron  peel — in  eqnal 
quantities ;  all  these  must  be  cut  in  small  shreds :  ei^t 
ounces  of  ground  or  pounded  almonds,  eight  whole  eggi* 
the  rest  or  rind  of  four  oranges  (rubbed  on  a  piece  « 
sugar  and  afterwards  scraped  off),  half  an  ounce  of  grow 
spices,  consisting  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  nvtn^ 
mixed  in  equal  proportions,  half  a  pint  of  Cognac  brandj, 
and  a  teaspoonfol  of  salt. 

Place  the  butter  in  a  laige  white  earthen  pan,  ai» 
work  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  pret^nts  the  iP- 
pearance  of  a  creamy  substance;  next  add  gradnauf 
the  flour,  sugar,  and  the  eggs,  still  continuing  to  woA 
the  butter  the  whole  time;  when  these  have  becft 
thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  cherries,  currants,  candirf- 


houbskxipxb'b  and  sutler's  assistant.         307 

)el,  gpx)Qiid  almondH ;  brandy,  spioes,  and  salt  must  also 
>  added  gradually.     As  soon  as  these  ingredients  are 
icorporated  with  the  butter,  let  the  preparation  be 
)iurea  into  a  convenient-sized  tin  (previously  liLied 
ith  doubled  bands  of  buttered  paper),  and  placed  on  a 
out-made   copper  buking-Khcot,   with  two  sheets   of 
attered  paper  under  the  cake,  to  prevent  the  composi- 
on  from  becoming  calcined  by  the  heat  of  the  oven, 
moderate  heat  will  be  sufficient  to  bake  the   cake, 
id  care  must  be  taken  not  to  put  any  fire  under  the  oven, 
»  as  to  increase  the  heat.     These  cakes,  when  baked, 
lould  be  iced  over  with  sugar  in  the  following  manner : — 
First,  mix  eight  otmces  of  very  fine  pounded  almonds, 
ith  double  that  quantity  of  fine-sifted  sugar,  a  little 
tmge-water,  and  sufficient  white  of  eggs,  to  form  the 
hole  into  a  soft  paste ;  spread  a  coating  of  this  all  over 
le  surface  of  the  cake  (after  it  has  become  cold),  and 
hen  it  is  hardened  by  drj'ing,  let  the  whole  be  iced 
w  with  the  following  preparation : — 
Place  about  six  whites  of  eggs  in  a  convenient-sized 
fiin ;  add  about  one  pound  and  a  hjilf  of  the  finest-sifted 
af-sugar,  and  work  those  well  together  with  a  clean 
)oden  spoon,  adding  occasionally  a  little  lemon-juice, 
itil  the  whole  presents  the  appearance,  of  a  very  thick 
it  comparatively  liquid  shiny  substance  of  a  pure  white, 
se  this  icing  to  mask  the  entire  surface  of  the  cake 
ith  a  coating  of  about  a   quarter  of  an  inch  thick ; 
low  this  to  become  finnly  sot,  by  drying,  for  which 
irpose  the   cake   should  bo  placed   in  a  warm  tem- 
rature,  and  kept  covered  with  a  large  sheet  of  paper 
preserve  it  from  dust,  &c.     When  the  icing  has  bc- 
me  perfectly  hard,  decorate  the  top  and  sides  of  the 
ke  with  raised  ornaments  of  gum-jiasto  (stamped  out 
►m  boards  cut  for  the  purpose),  and  arranged  with 
te,  either  in  the  form  of  garlands,  wreaths,  scrolls, 
. ;   or  else  the  cake  may  be  decorated  with  piping, 
Lg  for  that  purpose  some  of  the  icing  worked  some* 
At  thicker,  by  adding  to  it  moi*e  sugar. 

X  2 


808  THS  coos  If   QUIDS,   AHD  ' 

When  intended  for  a  wedding-oake,  the  omameiti 
mnst  be  all  white,  and  some  blossoms  and  cpriga,  or 
even  wreaths  of  orange-flowers  should  also  be  mtro- 
duoed. 

No.  747.- SCOTCH  BBEAD. 

Ingredients ;-— One  ponnd  of  flonr,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
one  pound  of  butter,  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  candied- 
lemon,  orange,  and  citron  peel — in  equal  proportions;  t 
gill  of  Cognac  brandy,  a  very  little  salt,  and  four  oimoes 
of  white  comfits. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  basin;  work  it  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  it  presents  the  appearance  of  thick  cream; 
then  add  the  flour,  sugar,  eggs,  and  salt  gradually, 
throwing  in  a  handful  of  each,  and  two  ^gs  at  a  time; 
when  the  whole  is  thoroughly  mixed,  the  candied-peel 
(cut  in  shreds),  also  the  brandy  and  the  rind  of  two 
oranges  or  lemons  (rubbed  on  sugar)  must  next  be 
added.  This  paste  should  now  be  poured  into  tins  of 
an  oblong  shape,  about  two  inches  deep,  spread  with 
butter ;  and  after  the  comfits  have  been  strewn  over  the 
surface,  a  little  fine  sugar  should  be  shaken  over  the 
top  previously  to  placing  them  in  the  oven  on  baJdng- 
sheets :  they  must  be  baked  of  a  very  light  colour. 

Note, — This  kind  of  cake  is  a  general  favourite  in 
Scotland,  being  served  on  most  occasions  at  broak&st 
luncheon,  or  for  casual  lefreshment,  and  also  with 
dessert. 

No.  748.— PLAIN  SEED  CAKE. 

Ingredients  : — One  quartern  of  dough,  six  eggs,  eij^t 
ounces  of  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  butter,  half  an  ounce  d 
carraway-seeds,  and  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt. 

Spread  the  dough  out  on  the  pastry-slab,  tlien  add 
the  whole  of  the  above-named  ingredients ;  work  tkem 
well  together  with  the  hands,  so  as  thoroughly  to  in* 
corporate  them  with  the  dough :  the  eggs  shonld  he 
guided  two  at  a  time. 

U  hen  the  paste,  is  ready,  put  it  into  a  plain  aoM 


H0USEKEXPBR*8   AND   BUTIiXH''B   ASSISTANT.  309 

viously  spread  with  butter),  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a 
Q  plaoe.  As  soon  as  the  fermentation  has  taken 
3  in  a  satisfactory  manner,  the  cake  should  be 
ediately  put  into  the  oven,  and  baked  of  a  light 
ir.  When  done,  serve  it  cold,  for  luncheon  or 
rwise. 

us  kind  of  cake  may  be  varied  by  introducing  raisins, 
smts,  or  candied  orange  or  lemon  peel. 


No.  749.— BRUSSELS  BISCUTrS  OE  RUSKS. 

gredients  required: — One  pound  of  floxir,  ten  ounces 
utter,  half  an  ounce  of  German-yeast,  four  ounces 

r,  four  whole  eggs,  and  four  yolks,  a  teaspoonful 
and  a  gill  of  cream.  Mix  the  paste  in  the 
ner  described  for  the  preparation  of  the  Compiegne 
I,  excepting  that  this  must  be  beaten  with  the  hand 
be  slab  until  it  presents  an  appearance  of  elasticity ; 
sponge  shoidd  then  be  added,  and  after  the  whole 
been  well  worked  once  more,  the  paste  must  be 
ed  in  long  narrow  tins,  about  two  inches  deep,  and 
.bout  the  same  width,  preparatory  to  placing  the 
B  in  the  moulds :  these  should  be  first  well  butteied 
floured  inside  (to  pit3vent  the  paste  from  sticking), 
I  the  paste  rolled  out  to  their  own  lengths,  and 
it  one  inch  and  a  half  tbick,  dropped  into  them, 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 

lien  the  paste  has  sufficiently  risen,  it  must  be 
ly  turned  out  on  a  baking-sheet,  previously  spread 
I  butter,  then  egged  all  over  with  a  soft  paste-brush, 
baked  of  a  bright,  deep-yellow  colour.  nN' hen  done, 
it  up  in  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ; 
e  them  flat  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  put  them  again 
he  oven  to  acquire  a  light-yellow  colour  on  both 
s. 

bese  form  a  superior  kind  of  rusks,  and  are  well 
•ted  for  the  refreshment-table  at  evening  parties,  or 
he  breakfast-table. 


810  THB  0OOK*S  CFUmS,   AKD 

NaU, — Busks  may  also  be  made  with  brioclie-pait0» 
pound-cake,  or  Savoy-cake ;  in  the  latter  case,  a  few 
carraway-seeds  are  sometimes  added 

No.  750.— POUND-CAKB. 

Ingredients  required : — One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  eight  eggs,  a  wineg^ 
of  brandy,  a  little  salt,  and  the  rind  of  two  oranges  or 
lemons  rubbed  on  sugar. 

Place  the  butter  in  a  basin,  and  work  it  with  s 
wooden  spoon,  until  it  assumes  the  appearance  of  thick 
cream ;  then  add  the  flour,  sugar,  and  the  eggs  gradually; 
when  the  whole  is  thoroughly  incorporated,  add  tbe 
brandy,  sugar,  and  salt;  mix  well  together,  and  bake 
the  caJkes  in  any  kind  of  mould  (previously  spread  with 
butter),  or  in  a  tin  hoop  lined  with  buttered  pi^* 
Plums,  currants,  almonds,  pistachio-kernels,  oandied-pedf 
or  dried  cherries  may  be  added. 

No.  751.-FLEmSH  OAUFFBSa 

Ingredients  required : — Twelve  ounces  of  flour,  six  onnoes 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  one  ounce  of  yeast,  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream  (whipped),  the  rind  of  two 
oranges  rubbed  on  sugar,  or  a  stick  of  vanilla ;  ponnded 
with  half  an  ounce  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  the 
flour  into  a  gallon-sized  basin;  spread  it  out  in  the  centre; 
then  add  the  milk  (with  the  yeast  dissolved  in  it  over 
the  fire  until  the  whole  becomes  tepid);  mix  these 
gradually  and  thoroughly ;  then  take  the  spoon  oot* 
scrape  the  sides  of  the  basin  with  a  knife,  cover  it  with 
paper,  and  set  the  batter  to  rise  in  the  screen.  WTien  the 
sponge  has  increased  to  twice  its  original  quantity,  the 
butter  should  be  first  merely  melted  by  the  fire,  «nd 
then  added  with  the  salt,  orange  sugar,  and  two  whole 
eggs.  Mix  these  in  well  with  the  sponge ;  then  add  the 
whipped  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  and  lastly, 
having  whipped  the  four  whites  into  a  suhstantiil 
froth,    mix    them    lightly    in  with    the    batter,  tsd 


housxkjsxpxb'8  and  butleb*8  assistant.         811 

set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  either  on  the  top 
\i  screen,  or  on  the  kitchen-table,  that  it  may  rise 
ice  its  original   quantity.      While   the   batter  is 

prepared,  let  the  gaoffre-irons  be  heated  over  the 

of  a  charcoal-fire;  and  when  sufficiently  hot  to 
.  of  their  baking  the  gauffres,  run  a  little  clarified 
r  through  them  with  a  paste-brush ;  then  fill  one 
)f  the  irons  with  some  of  the  batter,  handling  it 
Y  with  a  spoon ;    close  the  irons,  and  then  turn 

upside  down  (that  the  batter  may  run  into  the 
iite  side)  and  set  them  over  the  flame  of  the  char- 
ire  ;  and  when  done  of  a  bright-yellow  colour  on  one 
turn  the  irons  over,  that  the  gauffres  may  be  baked 
m  the  other  side.  They  must  then  be  turned  out 
e  irons,  and  after  the  edges  have  been  trimmed 
a  pair  of  scissors,  set  them  in  the  oven  or  before  a 
n  a  baking-sheet  covered  with  paper.     Repeat  this 

the  whole  of  the  batter  is  used  up ;  then  shake 

orange,  lemon,  or  vanilla  sugar  over  them ;   pile 

up  neatly  on  a  napkin,  and  serve, 
lese  gauffres  are  generally  served  as  a  remove  in  the 
id  course. 

No.  752.— FRENCH  GAUFFRES. 

gredients  required : — Eight  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces 
ounded  sugar,  one  pint  of  whipped  cream,  eight 
,  one  stick  of  vanilla,  a  little  salt,  and  a  glass  oi 
(oa. 

ace  the  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  basin ;  then  add 
folks  of  eggs,  the  pounded  vanilla,  and  the  cura9oa, 
mix  these  well  together,  gradually  adding  the 
)ped  cream  just  before  using  the  batter ;  add  the 
Dped  whites  of  eggs,  and  mix  them  in  lightly  so  as 
loroughly  incorporate  them  with  it. 
ike  these  gauffres  in  the  same  way  as  the  foregoing, 
rving,  however,  that  the  iron  be  very  carefully 
ed,  and  the  superfluous  heal  allowed  to  go  off  pre- 
isly  to  filling  them  witli  the  batter,  for  owing  to  the 


314  TEUB  COOK*8  QUIDS,   AKD 

tbe  almonds  (which  by  this  time  should  be  ready  and 
quite  hot)  must  be  instantly  thrown  in,  and  very  gentlj 
mixed  with  the  sngar,  care  being  taken  not  to  break  or 
braise  them.      The  vessel  containing  the  nongat  should 
be    kept  at   the  entrance  of  the    oven^  or   near  the 
stove-&*e,  so  as  to  prevent  its  becoming  cold  before 
it    is    used    up.     The    mould    intended    to    be   tised 
must    then    be   first    carefully    oiled    inside   with  t 
paste-brush,  and  set  to  drain  on  a  plate  that  the  super- 
fluous oil  may  run  off.     Some  of  the  nougat  should  now 
be  dropped  on  a  slightly-oiled  bakingnsheet,  and  spread 
out  with  a  lemon  to  the  thickness  of  about  the  eighth  of 
an  inch,  and  as  these  pieces  are  pressed  or  spr^  out 
they  must  be   immediately  placed  in  the  mould  and 
pressed  into  its  form  with  the  assistance  of  the  fingers 
and  a  lemon,  and  made  to  adhere  effectually  to  eadi 
other :  great  celerity  must  be  used  in  this  part  of  the 
operation,  as  in  the  event  of  the  nougat  being  allowed 
to  become  brittle  by  cooling,  it  would  be  found  impos- 
sible to  build  it  up  unless  by  melting,  which  is  seldom 
found  to  succeed.    W  hen  the  nougat  has  become  set  by 
cooling,  turn  it  out  of  the  mould,  and  serve  it  on  a  napkin* 
or  upoD  an  ornamental  stand. 

The  foregoing  proportions,  as  well  as  the  direction 
for  splitting  the  almonds,  refer  only  to  large  nougats; 
when  it  is  intended  to  make  a  smaller  one,  the  almonds 
should  be  shred.  In  all  cases,  the  proportion  of 
almonds  and  sugar  should  be  two  of  the  former  and 
one  of  the  latter.  For  the  purpose  of  varying  their 
appearance,  as  soon  as  the  nougat  is  turned  out  of 
the  mould,  some  shred  pistachios,  kernels,  and  rough 
granite-sugar*  should  be  strewed  over  its  surface. 

*  Graiute-sngar  is  generally  prepared  by  breakiiig  np  aome  kal 
tn^^  of  tlie  finest  quality  into  very  small  pieces  with  the  eod  of  • 
n)llina:-pin  ;  after  sifting  away  all  the  fine  sugar,  the  pieces  arc  dis 
piisded  thrcxcgh  a  colander  with  large  holes :  all  that  punnrn  throng 
thhi  may  be  used  for  the  above  purpose.  But  when  the  granite  i> 
rnqnired  finer,  it  most  be  riddled  thronich  a  wire  neve 


aonSlKKEPIK'B  AND  BUTLKB'B  AaslSTAKT.  8Ift 

Ho.  THi^-OOBNUOOPlA. 


repar«  Bonie  nougat  as  in  Ko.  754 ;  nae  a  mould  is 
fonn  of  a  coi-nucopia  to  shape  it ;  adjust  this  on  a 
tl  stand  made  of  the  same  mateiml,  ueing  for  that 
x>se  a  little  sugar  boiled  to  the  snap ;  ornament  it 
1  icing  piped  iin  in  some  such  design  as  represented 
.he  woodcut,  and  fill  the  hollow  of  the  cornucopia 
1  a  graceful!)' -arranged  group  of  cither  real  fruits 
melled,  or  else  of  imitations  of  fruits  made  of  sugar, 
ch  are  easily  obtained  of  all  confectioners. 

No.  755.— PAKISAN  NOUGATS. 
igredients  required: — Eight  onnces  of  pistaohio-ker- 
,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  one  stick  of  vanilla, 
d  the  pistachios ;  remove  the  skins ;  absorb  all  the 
jtnre  by  gently  rubbing  them  in  a  napkin ;  thee 
t  eaeh  kernel  into  halves,  and  put  them  to  drj-  on  a 
ng-sheet  in  the  screen  ;  pound  the  vanilla  with  one 
ze  of  sugar  ;  sift  it,  and  then  put  this  and  the  four 
les  of  pounded  sugar  into  a  small  suirar-boiler, 
ther  wiUi  a  teaspooniiil  of  the  prepared  extract  of 
.ineah    Stir  these  over  the  stove-fire  with  a  wooden 


316  THE  COOK'S   GUIDS,   ANB 

spoon  until  tlie  sugar  is  entirely  melted,  and  as  soon 
it  begins  to  purl  on  the  surface,  immediately  add 
pistachios,  and  gently  mix  the  whole  together,  taki 
care  not  to  bruise  the  pistachios.    The  nougat  must  n 
be  spiead  out  in  the  form* of  a  square,  on  a  baking-sh^^c 
or  marble  slab  (previously  oiled),  to  the  thickness     c 
about  the  eighth  part  of  an  inch  ;  some  roughly-brok^i 
granite  sugar  should  be  strewed  over  the  sur&ce,  and 
before  it  becomes  cold,  the  square  must  be  divided  into 
two  bands,  and  then  again  each  of  these  cut  into  about 
a  dozen  small  oblong  nougats :  when  about  to  send  to 
table,  pile  them  up  in  close  circular  rows  on  a  napkin, 
and  serve. 


No.  756.— S»IAXi.  NOUGATS  A  LA  CHANTILLY. 

Ingredients  required : — Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  rip© 
filberts  and  six  ounces  of  pounded  sugar. 

Scald  the  nuts ;  remove  the  skin ;  then  split  each 
kernel  in  four — lengthwise,  and  put  them  to  dry  on* 
baking-sheet  in  the  oven ;  meanwhile  .stir  the  sugar  in 
the  boiler  over  the  fire  in  the  usual  manner ;  and  as 
soon  as  it  is  ready,  mix  in  the  above ;  have  half  a  dozen 
small  dariole-moulds  ready  oiled  inside ;  put  some  of 
the  nougat  into  each  of  the  moulds,  and  use  a  sniAll 
stick  made  of  hard  wood,  half  an  inch  in  diameter,  to 
work  the  nougat  up  the  sides  or  into  the  flutes  of  the 
moulds ;  pare  away  all  that  may  rise  above  the  edge  of 
the  moulds,  and  then  turn  them  out  on  to  a  baking- 
sheet;  about' eighteen  will  sufiice  for  a  dish.  Several 
persons  should  assist  in  moulding  these  nougats,  in 
order  to  insure  their  all  being  of  one  colour ;  otherwise, 
from  being  frequently  obliged  to  warm  the  nougat,  it 
is  liable  to  become  dark.  When  about  to  send  the«e 
nougats  to  table,  each  should  be  filled  with  some  whipped 
cream  flavoured  with  vanilla  or  maraschino,  and  a  le^ 
strawberries  (when  in  season)  placed  on  the  top;  disk 
them  up  neatly  in  pyramidal  form  on  a  napkin. 


housxkekphb's  and  butlbb's  assistant.         817 

No.  757.— GENOESE  CAKE. 

Ingredients  required: — Half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
and  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  o 
lall  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  little  salt. 
Mix  the  fiour,  sugar,  eggs,  brandy,  and  salt  well 
gether  in  a  basin  with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  then  add  the 
liter  (merely  melted  by  the  side  of  the  fire),  and  when 
is  is  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  batter,  pour  it 
to  an  appropriate-sized  baking-sheet  (previously  spread 
ith  butter),  to  the  thickness  of  about  a  quarter  of  an 
ich,  and  bake  this  in  an  oven  moderately  heated. 
\Vhen  the  Genoese  paste  is  done,  it  should  be  turned 
at  upon  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  cut  or  stamped  out, 
ither  in  circular,  oblong,  oval,  angular,  leaf-like,  or 
ny  other  fenoy  shape  that  taste  may  suggest,  lliese 
ttay  then  be  decorated  with  white  of  egg  and  sugar 
>repared  as  for  meringues  ("No.  766),  or  with  icing 
prepared  as  directed  for  wedding-cakes  (No.  746),  and 
ornamented  with  pistachio-kernels,  currants,  &c.  Those 
cut  in  the  fonn  of  leaves,  rings,  oblongs,  &c.,  may  be 
ornamented  by  forming  a  design  composed  of  leaves 
and  pearls  (using  for  that  purpose  some  meringue-paste 
^  a  paper  comet,  or  small  biscuit  forcer).  V\  hen  the 
Genoese  cakes  are  ornamented  in  this  manner,  shake 
some  fine  sugar  over  them  with  a  dredger,  and  dry  them 
either  in  the  screen  or  at  the  entrance  of  the  oven ; 
^*ien,  finish  decorating  them  by  placing  some  neat  stripes 
0^  dots  of  any  kind  of  bright  preserve,  such  as  red- 
^urrant  jelly,  apple  jolly,  apricot  jam,  greengage  jam, 
^c.,  between  the  leaves  or  pearls  of  the  white-of-egg 
decoration.  By  these  means  a  very  pretty  effect  is 
produced ;  and  as  no  artificial  or  imwholesome  substance 
^"^  used  in  its  composition,  it  may  be  partaken  of  with 
safety. 

No.  758.— GENOESE  CAKES  WITH  ALMONDS. 

Prepare  these  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  case,  and 
"'hen  they  are  nearly  done,  mask  the  surface  with  the 


918  THs  COOK'S  aomrn^  asd 

wlihe  of  sn  egg  beaten  up  with  an  <ranoe  of  sifted  soj 
then  strew  fi>ar  ounces  of  ahopped  ahnanda  mixed ' 
two  ounces  of  sugar,  snd  a  few  drops  of  orange-flc 
water,  all  orer  the  coating  of  ^g ;  shake  a  little  si 
oxer  the  top  of  this,  and  pat  the  Genoese  cakes  1 
agun  in  tiie  OTen  to  finish  baking. 

Wh^i  done,  the  coating  of  almonds  shonld  be  • 
li^t-£ftwn  colonr :  they  must  then  be  carefdlljremc 
from  die  baking-sheet,  cut  or  stamped  ont  in  shi 
aooording  to  &n€j,  and  dished  np  on  a  napkin,  i 
pyramidal  fonn. 

Na  759.— MADELEINES. 

These  are  made  with  the  same  kind  of  batter 
Genoese  cakes,  to  whjph  cnrrants,  dried  cherries,  candi 
peel  or  angelica  may  be  added. 

When  the  batter  is  ready,  let  it  be  poured  int^ 
sofficient  nnmber  of  small  Anted  or  plain  dariole 
madeleine  moulds  (previously  battered  inside) ;  tb 
most  be  placed  on  a  baking-sheet  spread  with  so 
charcoal-ashes  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch,  and  tli 
baked  in  an  oven  of  moderate  heat.  ^Vhen  they  are  doi 
torn  them  oat  of  the  moulds,  and  dish  them  up  is 
pyramidal  form:  these  cakes  may  also  be  {Kuli^ 
emptied,  then  filled  np  with  some  kind  of  preserve,  a 
the  small  circular  piece,  removed  previously  to  uki 
out  the  cramb,  should  be  replaced. 

No.  760.— SPANISH  CAKES.    PETITS<^OUX. 

IngrediaUs  reqwed : — Half  a  pint  of  milk  or  wat 
four  ounces  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  five  oubc 
of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  orange 
very  little  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  chopped  almonds. 

Put  the  water,  butter,  sugar,  and  the  salt  into 
stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  these  begin  to  be 
withdraw  the  stewpan  from  the  fire  and  add  the  fioQ 
stir  the  whole  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  oi 

t  stove-fire  for  about  three  minutes ;  by  which  tii 


hovsxkkbpeb'b  and  butlbb's  absistakt.         819 

tlie  ingredients  should  present  the  appearance  of  a  soft 

oompact  paste.     The  essence  of  orange  (or  any  other 

kind  of  flavonr)  should  now  he  added,  and  also  one  egg. 

Incorporate  those  with  ihe  paste ;  then  mix  in  the  other 

trwo  eggs;  and  if  the  paste  should  he  stiff,  another  egg, 

or  a  yolk  only,  may  he  added.     This  paste  should  now 

be  laid  out  on  a  haking-sheet  in  small  round  halls  the 

size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  egged  over  with  a  paste-hnisli, 

Boino   chopj»ed    almonds    (mixed   with   a    spoonful    of 

pounded  sugar,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  white  of 

egg)  strewn  upon  them,  with  some  sifted  sugar  shaken 

over,  and  then  haked  of  a  very  light  colour.   These  cakes 

^iMiy  be  served  plain,  or  gai-nished  inside  with  cream  or 

Bonie  kind  of  prcsci've. 

No.  761.— DUCHESS  I^AVES. 

Those  are  made  of  the  same  kind  of  paste  as  the 
foregoiog :  this  must  be  laid  out  on  the  pastry-slah,  in 
8inaU  pieces,  ahout  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg;  then 
rolled  out  with  a  little  flour,  in  the  form  of  a  finger,  and 
placed  in  order  upon  a  baking-sheet  spread  with  butter  ; 
they  should  now  be  egged  over,  and  baked  of  a  bright- 
light  colour :  just  before  they  are  quite  done,  shake  some 
fijiely-sifted  sugar  over  them,  set  them  back  again  in 
tlie  oven  until  the  sugar  is  nearly  melted,  and  then  pass 
the  red-hot  salamander  over  them,  to  give  them  a  bright 
glossy  appearance.  The  loaves  must  now  be  immediateln 
^thdrawn  from  the  oven  and  allowed  to  cool ;  just 
Wore  sending  this  kind  of  pastry  to  talAe,  make  an 
^cision  down  the  sides,  and  fill  the  small  loaves  with 
*pricot  jam ;  then  dish  them  up  in  a  pyramidal  form  on  a 
^pkin,  and  serve. 

No.  76lA.— PETITB-CHOUX  Wn^H  CARAMEL. 

Prepare  these  as  the  above,  except  that  they  must  be 
^lled  and  baked  in  the  form  of  round  balls,  which, 
^'hen  done,  should  be  about  the  size  of  an  egg.     About 


8^  THE  OOOK'S  <}Un>S,   AVD 

two  ounces  of  roughly-chopped  pistachios,  a  few  cleaned 
currants,  and  an  equal  proportion  of  loaf-sugar  cihqpped 
small  should  he  mixed  together  on  a  plate ;  then  boil 
about  four  ounces  of  sugar  to  the  snap,  first  dipping  each 
petit-choux  slightly  in  it,  then  gently  roll  it  in  the 
prepared  pistachios,  &c.,  so  as  to  mask  its  sur&ce  with 
them ;  when  the  whole  have  been  thus  passed  in  the 
sugar  caramel,  allow  them  to  cool  previously  to  dishing 
them  up. 

No.  762.~PEOFITBOLLBS. 

Prepare  two  dozen  petits-choux,  as  directed  in  the 
fii*st  pai-t  of  the  foregoing  article ;  when  they  are  bakvd, 
and  have  become  cold,  cut  a  circular  piece  from  the  top 
of  each  about  the  size  of  a  shilling ;  then  fill  them  with 
some  custard  prepared  as  follows : — put  the  yoIk»  of 
four  eggs  into  a  small  stewpan,  with  two  ounces  d 
poimded  sugar,  a  good  tablespuonful  of  flour,  two  oimceB 
of  grated  chocolate,  and  a  very  little  salt ;  mix  theae 
well  together  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  add  a  small  pat 
of  butter ;  then  stir  the  whole  over  the  stove-fire,  and 
allow  it  to  boil  for  about  ten  minutes.  This  custard 
should  now  be  passed  through  a  tammy  (with  pressure) 
into  a  basin,  and  when  it  has  become  cold,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  should  be  added;  then 
serve.  The  custard  may  also  bo  flavoured  with  either 
lemon,  orange,  vanilla,  orange-flower,  or  any  kind  of 
4iqueur,  in  which  case  chocolate  must  be  omitted. 

No.  763.— MECCA  LOAVES. 

The  paste  of  these  is  prepared  as  in  the  foregoing 
cases,  with  tlie  addition,  however,  of  a  few  spoonftds  of 
whipped  cream,  which  must  only  be  incorporated  just 
previously  to  the  loaves  being  laid  out  on  the  baking- 
sheet,  in  the  following  manner : — take  a  tablespoon, 
and  fill  it  half  full  from  the  stewpan  containing  the 
paste ;  then  dip  the  point  of  a  knife  in  some  beaten  eggi 
and  use  it  to  force  tho  paste  from  the  spoon  gently 


houseksxpkb's  and  butlsb's  assistant.         B21 

pping  it  on  the  baking-sheet,  in  the  form  of  gher« 
s,  pointed  at  the  ends  and  elevated  at  the  centre ; 
the  bakingHsheet  with  these,  placing  them  about  two 
bes  distant  from  each  other,  egg  them  over,  shake 
le  fine-chopped  loaf-sugar  (about  the  size  of  small 
Instones)  over  them,  then  shake  some  sifted  sugar 
or  them,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  (at  very  moderate^ 
ii)  to  bake  of  a  bright-yellow  colour. 
iVhen  the  Mecca  loaves  are  done,  allow  them  to 
K>me  cold ;  then  after  they  have  been  dished  up  in 
ible  circular  rows,  fill  the  well  or  centre  with  some 
ipped  cream,  seasoned  with  a  little  sugar,  and  a  small 
«8  of  liqueur,  and  serve. 

No.  764^QXJEEN'S  OAKEa 

First,  prepare  eight  yolks  of  eggs  of  nouiUes-paste 
0.  954),  roll  this  out  as  thin  as  paper;  cut  it  into 
nds,  and  shred  these  extremely  fine ;  after  the  nouilles 
76  been  allowed  to  dry  upon  a  sieve  for  a  short  time, 
it  them  into  a  convenient-sized  etewpan,  with  a  pint 
boiling  cream,  two  pats  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
d  a  glass  of  brandy ;  set  them  to  boil  very  gently, 
er  a  slow  stove-fire  (covered  with  the  lid),  and  when 
e  cream  has  been  absorbed  by  the  nouilles,  withdraw 
em ;  add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  stir  the  whole  well 
gether ;  then  place  this  preparation  upon  two  baking- 
eets  (spread  with  butter),  in  layers  about  the  eighth 
irt  of  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  them  of  a  deep-yellow 
lour.  When  done,  spread  one  of  them  with  apricot 
m ;  cover  this  over  with  the  other,  and  then  stamp  the 
kes  out  with  a  circular  tin  cutter  in  the  form  of  half- 
oons ;  dish  these  up  in  circular  rows,  so  as  to  form  a 
ne,  and  serve. 

These  cakes  may  also  be  garnished  with  any  other 
Qd  of  preserve,  or  even  with  pastry-custard  (No.  790) ; 
ey  may  be  cut  out  in  either  oblong,  circular,  oval, 
if-like,  or  diamond  shapes.  In  order  to  vary  their 
pearance,  their  surface  should  be  first  lighty  spread 


822  THs  cook:  8  guids,  abb 

witli  a  little  meringae-paste  (No.  766),  and  then  i 
with  chopped  or  shred  pistacmos,  granite  sugar,  oi 
pink,  or  white  comfits. 

No.  765.— ALMOND  CAKES. 

Ingredients : — Six  ounces  of  flonr,  eight  onnces  of 
two  ounces  of  ground  or  finely-pounded  almonds 
a  few  bitter-almonds),  six  yolks  of  eggs,  two  whole 
four  whites  whipped,  a  glass  of  brandy,  a  little  sail 
ounces  of  chopped  almonds  mixed  with  two  oun 
sugar,  and  half  the  white  of  an  egg. 

First,  work  the  butter  in  a  basin  "with  a  spoon, 
it  presents  a  creamy  appearance ;  next  add  the 
sugar,  almonds,  brandy,  eggs,  and  salt,  gradually; 
mix  in  the  whipped  white  of  eggs,  lightly :  pou 
]>aste  on  a  baking-sheet,  about  an  inch  and  a  nail 
(previously  buttered),  and  bake  it  of  a  light  c 
\\Tien  the  cake  is  nearly  done,  spread  the  pre 
chopped  almonds  over  the  top,  and  then  put  it 
again  into  the  oven  to  finish  baking;  when  don< 
almonds  should  be  of  a  light-fawn  colour.  Tnr 
cake  out  carefully ;  and  when  cold,  cut  it  up  into 
of  about  an  inch  and  a  half  wide ;  then  again  ( 
these  into  diamond-shaped  cakes,  and  dish  the; 
pyramidically. 

Some  whipped  cream  may  be  placed  in  the  cer 
the  dish,  and  the  cakes  neatly  dished  up  roimd  it. 

Dried  cherries,  sultana-raisins,  currants,  any  ki 
candied-peel,  pistachios,  or  Spanish  nuts,  may  be  a 
The  cakes  may  also  be  flavoured  with  any  kind  of  et 
or  liqueur. 

No.  766.— MERINGUES. 

Ingredients  required: — One  poimd  of  sifted  snga 
twelve  whites  of  eggs. 

Whisk  the  whites  in  an  egg-bowl,  until  they  pi 
the  appearance  of  a  perfectly  white  smooth  subst 
froth  resembling  snow  ;  then  substitute  a  spoon  fc 


RCl.'SEKUEPKIt  B  AHO  BIITLBBS  ASSIHXAHT.  338 

whisk,  and  pi'ooood  to  mix  in  the  whole  of  the  sugai 
lightly ;  oarefuUy  avoid  working  the  batter  too  much, 
for  feat  of  rendering  it  eoft,  as  in  that  case  it  beconiUN 
•Moult  to  mould  tbo  moringuea  :  they  can  nevor  bu  ao 


giucofully  tiliapod  aa  when  it  iu  kopt  firm.  Next,  cut 
>ume  atiS  foolscap  paper  into  bauds,  about  two  inolios 
"ide;  then  take  a  tablespoon,  and  gatber  it  nearly  full 
of  Qie  batter  by  working  it  up  at  the  side  of  the  bowl  in 
^  form  of  an  egg,  and  diop  tliis  alopingly  upon  one 
ol  the  bands  of  paper,  ut  tlie  same  time  drawing  the 
^ge  of  the  spoon  sbai-pty  round  the  outer  base  of  the 
xuringue,  so  as  to  givo  to  it  a  smooth  and  TDuiidc-d 
appearance,  in  order  that  it  may  exactly  rosotublo  im 

I'rooeed  in  this  manner  until  tbo  band  is  full,  keeping 
Ui6  meringues  about  two  inches  and  a  half  apart  from 
*^  other  on  the  paper,  As  each  band  is  hllod,  place 
'hem  close  beside  each  other  on  the  slab  or  table, 
"Ml  when  all  the  batter  is  used  up,  sliaka  some  rather 
'osrae-eifted  sugar  all  over  them,  and  allow  it  to  remain 
^f  about  three  minutes ;  then  take  bold  of  one  of  the 
'*nd9  at  each  end,  shako  off  Iho  loose  sugar,  and  place 
^  band  of  meringues  on'  the  board,"  and  so  on  with  the 

'  Tbeio  boorda  mnit  be  mndo  of  soasonod  wood,  and  alionld  he 
«Wt  ta  inch  thick:  tlioir  blzi;  most  of  courae  dcpund  upori  the 
^eoAiOM  of  the  otbd,  idlowi^ig  aulSoiont  room  fur  Uietn  to  be 
tanud  KnmJ  in  R 


821  THX  OOOK's  GUIDJBy   ABD 

Other  bands,  which  when  placed  carefhllj  on  the  hoanb 
closely  side  by  side,  must  be  put  in  the  oyen  (at  veiy 
modei-ate  heat),  and  baked  of  a  li^t-fawn  colour. 
\Vheu  done,  each  piece  of  meringue  must  be  carafidfy 
removed  of!'  the  paper,  the  white  part  of  the  ioah 
scooped  oat  with  a  dessert-spoon,  and  then  nicely 
smoothed  over ;  after  this  they  must  be  placed  in  neat 
order  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  put  back  again  in  the  OTen 
to  dry,  taking  particular  care  that  they  do  not  aogniie 
any  more  colour. 

When  about  to  send  the  meringues  to  table,  whip 
some  double  cream;  season  it  witid  a  little  ponnded 
sugar,  and  either  a  glass  of  any  kind  of  liqueur,  a  few 
drops  of  orange-flower  water,  or  some  pounded  vanilla: 
garnish  each  piece  with  a  spoonful  of  this  cream ;  join 
two  together;  dish  them  up  in  a  pyramidal  fonn  on  a 
napkin,  and  serve. 

Note. — Meringues  may  be  made  of  all  sizes,  and  may 
also  be  shaped  in  the  form  of  small  bunches  of  grap^' 
for  this  purpose  it  is  necessary  to  use  a  *'  comet  or 
biscuit-forcer,  of  paper,  to  mould  the  berries.  In  order 
to  vary  their  appearance  previously  to  shaking  the  sugar 
over  them,  some  linely-shred  pistachios  or  almonds, 
lough  granite-sugar,  and  small  currants,  may  be  strewn 
over  them.  The}''  may  also  be  garnished  with  preserve, 
or  any  kind  of  iced-creams. 

No.  767.-ITALIAN  BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Six  eggs,  eight  ounces  of  pounded  sngar, 
five  ounces  of  flour,  some  orange  or  lemon-sugar  for 
flavouring,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  six  ounces  of  chopped 
almonds. 

First,  divide  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  the  six 
eggs,  placing  the  white  in  an  egg-bowl  and  the  yolb 
in  a  basin ;  add  the  sugar,  the  flavouring,  and  the  salt  <» 
the  yolks,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon  continue  working 
them  until  they  present  the  appearance  of  a  rather  stit 
creamy  batter.    Then  add  half  the  flour,  and  when  i^ 


■ 


H0U8£KEIPSB'8   AND  BUTLEB's  ASSIBTAMT.  S25 

I  been  well  mixed  in,  let  the  six  whites,  preTionslv 
ipped  firm,  be  also  lightly  mixed  in,  together  witn 
)  remainder  of  the  flonr,  taking  care  to  keep  the  batter 
firm  and  as  light  as  |X)S8ible. 

Ton  now  fill  a  biscuit-forcer  with  some  of  the  batter, 
d  then  proceed  to  gently  force  ont  the  batter  on  to 
king-sheets  (previously  buttered  and  fioured  for  the 
xpose),  in  round  or  oval  shapes,  twice  the  size  of  a 
^eshilling-piece ;  and  when  the  whole  of  the  batter  is 
ed  up  in  this  manner,  let  the  chopped  almonds  be 
[tuJly  strewn  over  the  biscuits,  and  after  some  sugar 
ts  heen  shaken  over  their  surface  with  a  dredger-box, 
ey  must  be  baked  of  a  very  light  colour  in  a  rather 
ftok'oven.  These  cakes  are  most  appropriate  for  des- 
rt;  but  when  made  of  the  size  of  a  fiveshilling-piece, 
f  first  spreading  any  kind  of  fruit  or  jam  on  the  under 
fft,  aud  sticking  two  of  them  together,  they  may  be 
»tly  served  up  for  a  second-course  dish,  with  some 
hi]^)ed  cream  in  the  centre. 

No.  768.— VENETIAN  BISCUITS. 

Rrst,  prepare  some  Genoese,  as  directed  at  No.  757, 
hich,  when  cold,  must  be  carefully  split  in  convenient- 
zed  pieces,  and  after  spreading  the  insides  with  apricot 
m,let  them  be  pressed  together  again;  you  next  spread 
tbin  coating  of  white  icing  on  one  square  of  Genoese, 
td  then  spread  a  similar  coating  of  pink  icing  on  the 
•ter  square ;  after  which  each  square  must  be  cut  into 
'Udl  oblong  shapes  of  equal  sizes ;  and  the  icing  having 
H5ome  dry,  may  be  dished  up,  either  for  a  second-course 
^  or  for  dessert. 

No.  769.— SWEDES. 

ingredients : — One  pound  of  poimded  sugar,  twelve 
Dices  of  finely-shred  almonds,  four  ounces  of  flour,  a 
ick  of  vanilla  (powdered  and  sifted),  and  one  whole 
g,  and  the  white  of  another.  Let  the  whole  of  the  fore- 
med  ingredients  be  well  mixed  together  in  a  basin, 


326  TEE  GOOB  6   nUIDS,    AN1> 

and  then  with  a  tablespoon  proceed  to  mould  the  piepk 
ration  into  round  balls  the  size  of  a  large  walnut,  wmfk 
are  to  be  placed  on  pieces  of  sheet-wafer  previoiulj  cot 
to  the  size  of  haKcrown-pieces ;  these  must  now  be 
placed  on  baking-sheets,  and  after  slightly  shakiiig  some 
^ne  sugar  over  mom,  are  to  be  baked  of  a  light  oulonr, 
in  a  slack  oven. 

These  cakes  may  also  be  finished  in  manner  foUow- 
ing  : — the  preparation  should  be  spread,  about  half  tu 
inch  thick,  upon  sheet- wafer ;  and  after  being  baked  of 
a  light  colour,  and  immediately  on  being  taken  from 
the  oven,  should  be  cut  into  leaf-like  shapes,  and  bent 
over  a  rolling-pin,  till  the  pieces  become  cold  and  cruf>' 
These  cakes  may  be  served  either  for  dessert  or  a 
second-course  dish  ;  in  the  latter  case,  some  whippod 
cream  must  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  dish. 

No.  770.— BKOWN-BKEAD  BISCUITa 

Ingredients : — One  pound  of  pounded  sugar,  eight  onncei 
of  brown  flour,  six  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds,  gronod 
or  pulverized,  without  being  blanched  or  divested  of 
their  brown  pellicule,  six  drops  of  the  essence  of  bitlcr- 
almonds,  and  one  dozen  eggs. 

Break  the  eggs,  placing  the  yolks  in  a  badn  and  tbe 
whites  in  an  egg-bowl :  add  the  sugar,  flour,  almonds 
and  the  flavouring  to  the  yolks,  and  work  these  ^J^ 
togetlier  for  twenty  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon;  then 
mix  in  the  whites  previously  whisked  firm  for  tbe  p^' 
pose,  and  with  this  batter  proceed  to  fill  as  masj  ob^ 
oblong  or  square  paper-cases  as  you  may  require  fortb* 
purpose,  which  after  they  have  been  sugared  o^^* 
should  be  baked  in  a  very  moderate  oven, 

lliese  biscuits  are  adapted  for  dessert  only. 

No.  771.— GINGER  CAKES. 

Ingredients : — One  pound  of  flour,  twelve  onncei  « 
fresh  butter,  twelve  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  two  oofl** 
of  ground  Jamaica-ginger,  eight  yolks  of  eggs. 


nOUSEESXPEIl  S  AND   BUTLEB  S  ASSISTANT.  327 

Woikthe  whole  of  the  above-named  ingredients  to- 
other on  a  pastry-board,  or  slab,  and  after  having 
a^ered  the  paste  up  into  a  compact  mass,  separate  it 
ito  four  parts ;  roll  these  out  to  the  thickness  of  the 
ixth  of  an  inch,  one  after  the  other,  and  with  a 
in  cutter,  either  oval,  round,  &c.,  cut  out  as  many 
ftkes  as  the  paste  will  produce,  and  place  them  on  a 
lightly-buttered  bakingnsheet ;  pass  a  paste -brush  over 
lem;  when  they  are  about  half  done,  shake  some  sugar 
^er  them,  and  set  them  back  in  the  oven  to  finish 
aking,  of  a  very  light  colour. 

No.  772.-CHAMPAGNE  BISCUITS. 

Ingredients: — Eight  ounces  of  flour,  eight  ounces  of 
ounded  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  eight  eggs, 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  carraway-seeds,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Place  the  butter  in  a  basin,  and  work  it  with  a 
'ooden  spoon  until  it  presents  the  appearance  of  thick 
feam;  then  add  the  sugar,  flour,  yolks  of  eggs,  the 
UTaway-seeds  and  salt,  gradually ;  after  which  mix  in 
le  eight  whites  of  eggs,  previously  whisked  firm  for  the 
irpose;  you  now  procure  a  sheet  of  stout  cartridge- 
aper,  which  must  be  folded  in  reverse  plaits,  so  that, 
hen  the  paper  is  opened,  it  may  present  the  appearance 
f  the  plaits  of  a  fan,  thus  forming  angular  trenches 
lH)ut  an  inch  deep.  Next,  fill  a  biscuit-forcer  with 
)me  of  the  batter,  and  proceed  to  force  out  some  finger- 
ke  biscuits  into  the  aforesaid  paper  trenches  of  about 
^e  inches  long ;  shake  some  sifted  sugar  over  these, 
id  bake  them  of  a  light  colour  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 
These  cakes  are  fit  only  for  dessert. 

No.  773.-OEANGE  BISCUTrS. 

These  are  made  with  the  same  kind  of  batter  as  de- 
Hbed  in  the  foregoing  article,  omitting  in  this  case 
'©  carraway-seeds,  and  substituting  in  their  place 
Uie  orange-sugar  and  candied  orange-peel  cut  int*) 


328  THX  OOOK'S  OCIDB,  AND 

small  shreds :  some  very  small  moulds  must  be  slightlj 
buttered,  filled  with  some  of  the  batter,  some  sngtf 
sifted  over  them,  and  then  baked  of  a  veiy  light  oolonr 
in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

No.  774.— PEACH  BISCUITS. 

Prepare  some  batter  as  dii*ected  for  Fingers  (No.  745), 
and  with  this  proceed  to  form  some  round  bisouits  (nnog 
a  biscuit-forcer  for  that  purpose),  on  a  bakingHsni96t or 
sheet  of  paper ;  if  the  former,  it  must  be  previously  bat* 
tered  and  floured.  Shake  some  sugar  over  the  bisoniiSi, 
and  bake  them  of  a  very  light  colour;  and  when  they 
are  done,  and  removed  from  the  baking-sheet  or  paper, 
spread  the  under  parts  with  some  kind  of  preserved  frnit 
(peach  marmalade  being  most  appropriate) ;  stick  two  of 
these  together,  thus  forming,  as  nearly  as  possible,  the 
shape  and  size  of  a  peach;  these  must  now  be  very 
thinly  covered  all  over  with  some  white  icing,  which, 
when  dry,  must  be  veiy  slightly  brushed  over  with  • 
soft  pencil-brush,  dipped  in  a  very  small  quantity  of 
carmine,  thereby  giving  to  the  cake  merely  a  tinge  of 
colour  similar  to  that  displayed  by  the  ripe  peaA 
These  cakes  may  be  served  up  with  whipped  cream  i» 
the  centre  of  the  dish. 

No.  775.— APETCOT  BKCUITa 

These  are  prepared  in  all  respects  according  to  di- 
rections given  in  the  preceding  article,  excepting  that 
they  should  be  made  smaller,  so  that  they  may  form  • 
near  resemblance  to  apricots  in  size  and  form,  apricot 
jam  being  used  to  stick  them  together ;  and  when  * 
far  prepared,  are  to  be  dipped  in  the  following  prep*" 
ration : — 

To  one  pound  of  fine  loaf-sugar  placed  in  a  sngtf' 
boiler,  add  half  a  pint  of  spring-water ;  boil  these  over 
a  brisk  stove-fire  until  the  sugar,  while  boiling,  throw* 
np  pearl-like  bubbles,  the  degree  of  boiling  required  i^ 


HOUSXKEIPBr'b  and   BUTLBB'S  AB8I8TANT.  829 

;lasing  being  ascertained  by  taking  a  small  quantity 
f  the  bc^Uing  sugar  between  the  forefinger  and  thumb 
preTiously  dipped  in  cold  wator^  :  if  the  sugar  when 
tressed  with  the  fingers  presents  the  appearance  of 
trong  glue,  it  should  then  be  removed  from  the  fire ; 
nd  ten  minutes  afterwards,  whatever  fiavouiing  is 
atended  to  be  used,  such  as  liqueurs,  strong  vanilla, 
lange  or  lemon  syrups,  or  infusions,  must  be  in  a 
iqpd  state,  and  must  be  gradually  mixed  in  with  the 
*oiled  sugar,  quickly  stiiTing  and  working  the  sugar  in 
be  pan  the  while ;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  the  cakes 
homd  be  dipped  in,  and  being  afterwards  placed  on  a 
iie-drainer,  put  in  the  hot  closet  for  a  few  minutes  to 
Bt  The  yellow  tinge  required  for  the  glacis  in  this 
Me,  may  be  given  by  using  either  some  orange-sugar 
r  a  small  decoction  of  saffron :  the  latter  is  objection 
Ue,  on  account  of  its  flavour. 

No.  776.— CHOCOLATE  GLAOK. 

The  foundation  of  these  may  be  made  either  of  pound- 
ike,  Genoese,  or  Savoy  cako;  the  batter  for  making 
ither  of  the  foregoing  may  be  first  baked  in  a  baking- 
^eet,  and  afterwards  cut  out  in  shapes  and  sizes  to  suit 
^  or  convenience ;  or  otherwise  may  be  baked  in  ap- 
^priate  moulds  or  cases  for  the  purpose;  they  must 
len  be  dipped  in  the  following  preparation : — first  boil 
le  sugar  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  article,  and  when 
'  has  reached  its  proper  degree,  add  six  ounces  of 
'iocolate  dissolved  with  a  wineglassful  of  water ;  work 
16  whole  well  together,  and  use  it  while  hot ;  biit  if  it 
\ould  become  cold,  and  set  before  the  operation  is  ter- 
^^ted,  the  preparation  may  be  easily  liquified  by  stir- 
^^  it  over  the  fire. 

Cakes,  both  large  and  small,  may  be  glacis  or  glazed 
^  this  manner  in  almost  infinite  variety,  by  using  any 
^d  of  liqueur,  or  a  very  strong  infusion  of  tea  or  coffee, 
^tead  of  the  chocolate  here  recommended. 


330  Tnx  cook's  guidk,  and 

No.  777.— SUISSE  LECBELETS. 

Ingredients: — Eight  ounces  of  honey,  fonr  oiuioes   d 
Kweet-almoncU  blanched   and  shred,  half  an  ounce  d 
cinnamon-powder,  a  quarter  of  an  ounoe  of  ground  doves, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  six  ounces  of  ponnded  sugar,  hilf 
an  ounce  of  carbonate  of  potash,  six  ounces  of  candied- 
orange,  lemon,  and  citron,  a  wineglassful  of  KirBchen* 
wasser,  ditto  of  orange-flower  water,  the  grated  rind 
of  two  lemons,  and  one  pound  of  flour,  including  the 
quantity  required  to  manipulate  the  paste  on  the  bUI). 

Put  the  h(jney  in  a  copper  egg-bowl  on  the  stove-ftt, 
and  when  it  is  melted,  skim  off  the  froth,  and  imme- 
diately add  the  shred  almonds,  the  ground  spices,  and 
the  grated  lemon-peel ;   mix  these  well  together  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  and  then  add  the  sugar,  the  Eincben- 
wasser,  the  orange-flower  water,  and  the  candied-peeU 
ready  shred  ftjr  the  purpose ;  and  after  having  mixed 
in  these,  then  add  the  carbonate  of  potash  dii«olTed  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  also  fourteen  ouncee  of 
flour,  leaving  the  remainder  for  manipulating  the  paste 
on  the  slab.    This  paste  must  now  be  gently  stirred  over 
the. fire  for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  then  placed  in  a 
covored  pan  in  a  cool  place  for  three  days  previonsly  to 
its  being  used.     The  further  process  is  as  follows  i—Cut 
the  :Lecrelet-paste  into  fonr  equal  parts ;  and  after  bsTiog 
first  strewn  the  slab  with  some  of  the  flour  reserved  for 
the  purpose,  roll  out  each  of  the  four  pieces  to  about 
the  eighth  part  of  an  inch  thick,     lliese  squares  mnrt 
each  be  placed  on  baking-sheets  previously  buttered  and 
floured  for  the  purpose,  and  after  being  deeply  marked 
out,  or  cut  into  small  oblong  squai^s,  must  be  rubbed 
over  with  a  paste-brush  dipped  in  water  to  remove  the 
flour  from  the  surface.     Next,  bake  the  Lecrelets  in  a 
rather  slack  oven,  of  a  light  colour;   and  when  they 
are  about   three  parts  done,  let  them   be  nearly  cut 
tlirough  into  shape;  and  immediately  they  have  been 
brushed  over  with  some  thin  white  icing,  replace  them 
in  the  oven  to  finish  being  baked,     ^^'hen  the  Lecrelets 


uoubkkeepkb's  and  butlek's  assistant.         831 

been  withdrawn  from  the  oven  a  snflGcient  time  to 
become  cold,  break  them  up,  as  marked  out,  and 
iiem  away  in  a  tin  box  in  a  dr}'  place,  lliese 
(  are  well  adapted  for  dessert  or  luncheon,  and  aie 
asant  adjunct  for  the  supper-tray. 

No.  778.— SICILIAN  BISCUITS. 

jredients: — Four  eggs,  twelve  ounces  of  pounded 
r,  ten  ounces  of  flour,  a  stick  of  vanilla— pounded. 
bisk  the  eggs,  the  sugar,  and  the  vanilla  together 
copper  egg-bowl,  over  a  very  slow  stove-fire,  until 
atter  begins  to  feel  warm  ;  it  must  then  be  removed 
\ie  fire,  and  whisked  briskly  until  the  batter  be- 
8  cold;  the  fiour  must  now  be  lightly  added  in, 
^hen  thoroughly  mixed,  must  be  shaped  upon  pre- 
l  baking-sheets  with  the  aid  of  a  biscuit-forcer  in 
rs,  ovals,  or  rounds,  sugared  over  similarly  to 
38  biscuits,  and  baked  in  a  slack  oven. 

No.  779.— RUSSIAN  BISCUITS. 

fredients ; — Eight  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  ten  eggs, 
moes  of  fiour,  four  ounces  of  almonds  pounded  ind 

over  the  fire  in  a  sugar-boiler,  a  quarter  of  an 
)  of  aniseed  : — 

t  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  be  whisked 
her  in  an  egg-bowl  over  a  slow  fire  until  they  pre- 
the  appearance  of  a  thick  batter ;  the  whites  pre- 
ly  whisked  firm,  must  now  be  lightly  added,  as 
be  fiour,  pounded  almonds,  and  aniseed, 
e  batter  thus  produced  may  either  be  baked  in 
.  moulds,  or,  as  is  most  appropriate  for  these  bis 

they  should  be  baked  in  long  tin  moulds,  or,  fail- 
kiese,  in  stout  paper-cases,  ten  inches  long  by  thitse 
8  deep,  and  two  and  a  half  inches  wide, 
len  the  last-named  are  baked,  and  have  been  allowed 
icome  thoroughly  cold,  cut  them  into  rather  thin 
,  which  being  placed  on  baking-sheets,  should  be 

baked  of  a  very  light  colour  on  both  sides. 


S32  THX  cook's  guide,  and 

No.  780.— ALBEET  BISCUITS. 

Ingredients : — Ten  otinces  of  pounded  sugar,  eight  ounces 
of  finely-chopped  abnonds,  six  ounces  of  flour,  tweWe 
yolks  and  fouiieen  whites  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  candied 
orange-peel  Bhred  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon-powder, 
half  that  quantity  of  ground  cloTes,  and  a  little  grated 
lemon-rind. 

Work  the  sugar  and  the  almonds  with  the  yolks  and 
two  whites  of  eggs  for  twenty  minutes,  then  incorporate 
the  remaining  twelve  whites,  firmly  whisked  together, 
with  the  flour,  candied-peel,  and  spices ;  next,  pour  the 
hatter  into  a  convenient-sized  paper-case,  and  hake  it  in 
a  moderate  oven ;  and  when  done  and  sufficiently  cold, 
let  it  he  cut  up  into  thin  slices  for  dishing  up. 

This  preparation  may  also  he  haked  in  small  moulds, 
or  forced  out  upon  paper  or  haking-sheets,  previously 
buttered  and  floured  for  the  purpose. 

No.  781.— VIOTOBIA  BISCUITS. 

Ingredients: — One  pound  of  pounded  sugar,  twelve 
ounces  of  dried  flour,  six  ounces  of  pounded  or  groand 
bitter-almonds,  six  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  wineglassfbl 
of  Kirschen-wasser,  and  the  rind  of  two  lemons  grated. 

First,  let  the  butter  be  worked  up  in  a  basin  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  it  assumes  a  creamy  appearance; 
then  add  the  remainder  of  the  ingredients,  finishing  with 
the  Kirschen-wasser ;  and  when  the  batter  is  ready,  poor 
it  into  small  moulds  ready  buttered,  and  intenoriy 
coated  with  potato-flour.  When  these  cakes  or  bisciiits 
are  baked  of  a  very  light  colour,  first  spread  the  surfiMJe 
with  orange-marmalade,  and  over  this  glaze  them  ac- 
cording to  directions  given  for  finishing  Apricot  Biscuitii 


aOUSKKBSPES'B  AND   BITTLXS  8  ASSISTANT.  883 


CHAPTEE  XX. 

No.  782.— CHEESECAKEa 

Ingredients  required: — ^Eight  otmces'of  pressed  curd,  two 
onnces  of  ratanas,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  some  grated  nutmeg,  a  little 
salt,  the  rind  of  two  oranges  or  lemons,  rubbed  on  sugar 
afterwards  scraped  off. 

Press  the  curd  in  a  napkin  to  absorb  the  superfluous 
moisture,  then  pound  it  thoroughly  in  a  mortar,  and  mix 
in  the  above-named  ingredients ;  when  the  whole  is  in- 
corporated together  into  a  kind  of  soft  paste,  take  this 
up  in  a  basin ;  next,  line  two  dozen  or  more  tartlet-pans 
with  some  well-worked  trimmings  of  puff-paste ;  garnish 
these  with  the  cheese-custard ;  place  a  strip  of  candied- 
peel  on  the  top  of  each ;  put  them  on  a  baking-sheet,  and 
then  set  them  in  the  oven  (at  moderate  heat),  to  be  baked 
of  a  very  light-brown  colour ;  when  done,  shake  a  very 
little  sifted  sugar  over  them,  and  serve  them  quite  hot. 

Currants,  dried  cherries,  sultanas,  or  citron  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  candied-peel. 

No.  783.-MIKLITONS. 

Ingredients  required: — Puff-paste  trimmings,  three  whole 
e^s,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  ratafias,  half 
an  ounce  of  candied  orange-flowers,  one  ounce  of  butter 
and  a  little  salt. 

Put  the  above  into  a  basin  having  a  spout.  The  rata- 
fias and  orange-flowers  must  be  bruised,  and  the  butter 


HM  thb^oook's  ouids,  and 

merely  melted.  Work  the  whole  well  together  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  the  batter  presents  the  appearance 
of  a  rich  creamy-looking  substance;  it  must  then  be 
instantly  poured  into  two  dozen  small  deep  tartlets  lined 
with  puif-paste  trimmings ;  shake  a  rather  thick  ooating 
of  sifted  sugar  over  the  mirlitons,  and  when  it  has  nearly 
melted  on  their  surface,  put  them  in  the  oven  (at  veiy 
moderate  heat),  and  bake  them  of  a  light-fawn  oolour. 
When  the  mirlitons  are  done,  the  centre  should  rise  out 
from  the  tartlet  to  the  height  of  about  half  an  inch,  re- 
sembling the  crown  of  a  boy's  cap. 

These  cakes  may  also  be  flavoured  with  chocolate 
grated  previously  to  its  being  added  to  the  preparation, 
or  with  pistachios  or  almonds;  both  of  these  must  be 
pounded  first.  They  may  also  be  flavoured  with  different 
essences.  Previously  to  pouring  the  batter  into  the 
tartlets,  a  spoonful  of  apricot  or  pine-apple  jam  may  be 
placed  in  them. 

No.  784.— D'ABTOIS  CAKE. 

Puff-paste  or  large  D'Artois  cakes,  prepared  as  directed ' 
in  the  foregoing  cases,  may  be  gamii^ed  either  with 
apple  marmalade,  mince-meat,  or  any  kind  of  preserve. 
In  this  case,  however,  when  the  cake  has  been  covered  in 
with  the  puff-paste,  previously  to  marking  out  the  design 
on  its  surface,  it  must  be  egged  over  with  a  paste-brush; 
when  it  has  been  baked  of  a  biight-yellow  colour,  shake 
some  finely-sifted  sugar  over  it ;  after  which  put  it  back 
again  in  the  oven  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  then  pass  the 
red-hot  salamander  over  it  to  give  it  a  bright  glossy 
appearance.  The  same  direction  applies  to  the  smaller 
D'Artois  cakes. 

No.  785.— GERMAN  TOUETE  OF  APRICOTS. 

Cut  a  dozen  ripe  apricots  into  quai*ters,  and  put  thee 
into  a  small  sugar-boiler  or  stewpan,  with  the  kemcU 
extracted  from  the  sfones,  four  ounces  of  pounded  sugar. 


houseeeepeb's  and  butleu's  assistant.         885 

and  a  spoonful  of  water;  stir  this  over  the  stove-firo 
until  the  fruit  has  dissolved  into  a  jam,  and  then  with- 
draw the  stewpan  from  the  fire. 

Boll  out  some  trimmings  of  puff-paste,  or  else  ahout 
half  a  pound  of  short-paste,  to  the  diameter  of  about 
eight  inches ;  place  this  on  a  circular  baking-sheet,  and 
with  the  forefmger  and  thumb  of  the  right  hand,  twist 
the  paste  round  the  edges,  so  as  to  raise  it  in  imitation 
of  cording;  then  cut  up  a  dozen  ripe  apricots  into 
quarters,  and  place  these  in  close  circular  rows  on  the 
paste,  shake  some  sifted  sugar  (mixed  with  some  rind  of 
lemon)  over  the  apricots,  and  then  bake  the  tourte  (at 
moderate  heat).  When  it  is  done,  pour  the  marmalade 
of  apricots  over  the  others ;  shake  some  sifted  sugar  mixed 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon-powder  over  the  surface ; 
dish  the  tourte  on  a  napkin,  and  serve  it  either  hot  or 
cold.  This  kind  of  tourte  may  be  made  of  every  kind 
of  fruit,  following  in  each  case  the  directions  for  the 
preparation  of  Gennan  tourte  of  apricots,  not  forgetting 
the  cinnamon-sugar. 

No.  786.~PARISIAN  TURNOVER  OF  APPLES. 

Peel  about  a  dozen  apples ;  cut  them  in  quarters,  and 
take  out  the  cores ;  after  which,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter, 
the  rind  of  a  lemon  rubbed  on  a  piece  of  sugar,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water;  toss  the  apples  over  a  slow  fire 
until  they  are  about  half  done,  and  then  remove  them 
from  the  fire.  While  the  apples  are  being  prepared,  roll 
out  a  piece  of  short-paste,  in  a  circular  form,  the  eighth 
part  of  an  inch  thick,  and  about  the  size  of  a  dinner* 
plate ;  wet  this  round  the  edge ;  then  fasten  a  rolled  cord 
of  paste,  the  thickness  of  a  small  finger,  within  an  inch 
of  the  edge,  and  pile  the  prepared  apples  up  in  the  centre 
in  the  form  of  a  dome.  Kext  spread  some  apricot-mar- 
malade over  the  surface,  and  cover  the  whole  in  with  a 
cironlar  piece  of  puff-paste ;  press  them  together  round 
the  edge?,  wet  the  extremities,  then  with  the  forefingoY 


836  THE  oo6k*8  ouidsl  An> 

and  thtimb  of  the  right  hand,  twist  or  &ld  the  edgef 
over  in  the  form  of  a  cord.  Let  the  tamover  now  be 
egged  all  over  with  a  soft  paste-bmsh  dipped  in  some 
beaten  white  of  egg ;  then  strew  some  rough  granite-sugar 
over  the  entire  snr£Eu;e,  and  bake  it  of  a  light  colour. 
These  turnovers  may  also  be  made  c^  all  kinds  d 

Elums,  the  only  difference  in  their  mode  of  preparation 
eing  that  they  need  not  undergo  any  di-essing  previously 
to  placing  them  in  the  paste,  except  that  the  sttmes 
should  be  removed.  The  plums,  peaches,  or  apriooti, 
must  be  piled  up  in  several  rows  forming  a  dome,  with 
some  pounded-sugar  between  each  layer ;  and  some  of  the 
same  kind  of  fruit  the  turnover  is  made  of  should  be 
first  boiled  down  to  a  jam,  for  the  purpose  of  Tnasking 
the  fruit  with,  preparatory  to  its  being  covered  in. 

No.  787*— DAKIOLE& 

Ingredients: — One  ounce  of  flour,  two  ounces  of 
pounded-Bugar,  one  ounce  of  ratafias,  three  gills  of  cream, 
one  whole  egg,  and  six  yolks,  one  ounce  of  candied 
orange-flowers,  a  small  pat  of  butter,  and  a  very  little 
salt,  half  a  pound  of  trimmings  of  puff-paste.  Place  the 
sugar,  the  flour,  the  bruised  ratafias,  and  the  eggs  in  a 
spouted  basin ;  work  the  whole  well  together,  and  then 
add  the  cream,  a  very  little  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
oiunge-flower  water,  and  mix  these  in  with  the  batter. 
Line  a  dozen  dariole-moulds  with  some  trimmings  of 
puff-paste;  place  these  on  a  baking-sheet;  put  a  very 
small  piece  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  each  dariole,  ai^ 
then  after  stirring  the  batter  well  together,  pour  it  into 
the  moulds;  strew  the  candied-flowers  on  the  top  of 
each,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  (at  moderate  heat)  to 
bake.  When  done,  the  darioles  should  be  sli^tly  raised 
in  the  centre  and  of  a  light  colour ;  take  them  out  of  the 
moulds,  without  breaking  them ;  shake  some  finely-siited 
sugar  over  them,  and  serve  them  hot. 

Darioles  may  also  be  flavoured  with  vanilla,  lemasi 
orange,  coffee,  or  chocolate. 


nOUSEKKEPBll'e  AND    BUTLXB'S   ASSISTANT.  887 

No.  788.— OONDE  CAKES 

Chop  six  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds  as  fine  as  possible ; 
mix  them  with  four  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  some  grated 
rind  of  lemon,  and  the  white  of  an  egg:  the  whole 
should  present  the  appearance  of  a  rather  firm  paste. 
Next,  make  half  a  pound  of  puflf-paste,  to  which  give 
eight  turns  or  foldings,  and  roll  this  out  to  the  thickness 
of  the  eighth  part  of  an  inch ;  then  with  a  tin  cutter,  of 
an  oval,  circular,  crescent,  diamond,  or  any  other  fancy 
shape,  stamp  out  about  eighteen  Condes,  and  place  them 
on  a  baking-sheet,  previously  wetted  over  with  a  paste- 
brush  to  receive  them.  Spread  a  coating  of  the  prepared 
ohopped  almonds  on  the  surface  of  each;  shake  some 
fine  sugar  over  them  with  the  dredger,  and  bake  them  of 
a  very  light-fawn  colour. 

No.  789.— D'ARTOIS  OF  APRICOT. 

Make  one  pound  of  puff-paste,  and  give  it  seven  turns 
or  foldings;  then,  take  one-third  of  it,  and  after  knead- 
ing this  well  together,  roll  it  out  to  the  size  of  a  square 
baking-sheet  measuring  about  fourteen  inches  by  twelve, 
and  lay  the  paste  upon  it;  next  spread  a  rather  thick 
layer  of  apricot  jam  over  the  paste  to  within  about  an 
inch  of  the  edges ;  then,  roll  out  the  remainder  of  the 
puff-paste  to  the  size  of  the  baking-sheet,  and  place  it 
neatly  over  the  surface  of  the  apricot ;  fasten  it  round  by 
pressing  upon  the  edges  with  the  thumb,  and  trim  the 
edges  by  cutting  away  the  superfluous  paste  from  the 
sides  vrith  a  knife. 

llie  D'Artois  must  now  be  marked  out  in  small  oblong 
shapes  with  the  back  part  of  a  knife ;  and  after  the  whole 
sur&ce  has  been  egged  over,  score  them  very  neatly, 
forming  a  kind  of  feather-pattern  on  each  cake.  Bake 
them  of  a  bright,  light-brown  colour ;  and  when  they  aro 
done,  shake  some  finely-sifted  sugar  over  tliem  out  of  the 
dredger;  put  them  back  again  in  the  oven  for  a  minute 
or  tiro,  to  melt  the  sugar,  and  then  pass  the  red-hot 


838  THE  COOK'S  GUIDE,  AND 

salamander  over  them  to  give  to  the  pastiy  a  biighi 
glossy  appearance.  When  the  D'Artois  have  become 
sufficiently  cold,  cut  them  up,  and  serve  them,  dished  up 
in  several  circular  rows  piled  on  a  napkin. 

Note. — This  kind  of  pastry  may  also  be  garnished  with 
Pethiviers  cream,  pastry  custard,  apple  marmalade,  or 
any  other  kind  of  preserve. 

No.  790.— PASTBY  CUSTABD  OB  OBEAM. 

Ingredients: — Four  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of 
sugar,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  pint 
of  cream  or  milk,  one  ounce  of  ratafias,  a  spoonful  of 
orange-flower  water,  and  a  veiy  little  salt. 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  and  salt,  with  two  whole  ^gs,  in 
a  stewpan  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  then  add  the  cream 
and  the  butter,  and  stir  the  whole  over  the  stove-fire 
until  it  boils :  it  must  then  be  well  worked  together,  so 
as  to  make  it  smooth.  Withdraw  the  spoon,  and  after 
putting  the  lid  on  the  stewpan,  place  the  oream  in  the 
oven,  or  on  a  slow  stove-fire  partially  smothered  in  ashes, 
that  it  may  continue  to  simmer  gently  for  about  twenty 
minutes ;  the  cream  must  then  be  put  out  into  a  basin, 
and  the  bruised  ratafias,  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the 
orange-flower  water  must  be  added;  after  this  pnt 
four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  small  stewpan  on  the  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  fritter,  and  has  acquired  a 
light-brown  colour  (which  gives  to  it  the  sweet  flavour 
of  nuts),  add  it  also  to  the  cream  and  let  the  whole  be 
well  mixed.  Use  this  cream  to  garnish  various  kinds  of 
pastry  according  to  directions  given  in  the  several  arti- 
cles for  which  it  is  intended. 

No.  781.— TALM0USE8. 

Ingredients  required : — Half  a  pint  of  milk,  four  onnoes 
of  flour,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  rix 
ounces  of  cream-curd,  the  rind  of  an  orange  rubbed  on 
sugar,  a  very  little  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of  puff-pesta 


HOU8KKEBPBB*8  AND  BUTLEB'S  ASSISTANT.  889 

it  iihe  milk,  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  into  a  stewpan  on 
•toTe-fire,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  simmer,  fill  in 
5  flour  by  stirring  the  whole  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
o  or  three  minutes  over  the  fire ;  then  add  me  curd 
om  which  all  the  superfluous  moisture  must  be  ez- 
x)ted,  by  pressing  it  with  a  napkin^,  and  work  in  the 
gs  one  an;er  the  other,  remembering  tliat  this  paste 
ist  be  kept  to  about  the  same  substance  as  for  Petits- 
oux. 

Make  half  a  pound  of  pufif-paste,  and  give  it  nine 
ms ;  roll  this  out  to  the  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness ; 
imp  out  about  two  dozen  circular  pieces  with  a  tin 
tter  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  place  them  in 
at  order  on  a  baking-sheet,  about  an  incn  apart  from 
oh  other ;  then  place  a  good  teaspoonful  of  the  prepa- 
tion  described  above,  in  the  centre  of  each ;  wet  them 
and  the  edges,  and  then  turn  up  the  sides  so  as  to  form 
oh  of  them  in  the  shape  of  a  thiee-cornered  hat ;  egg 
em  over  with  a  paste-bmsh ;  bake  them  of  a  light-brown 
lour;  and  when  they  are  withdrawn  from  the  oven, 
ake  some  fine  sugar  over  them.  These  cakes  may  be 
rved  either  hot  or  cold. 


No.  792.— WALNUTS. 

Give  seven  turns  to  half  a  pound  of  pufi'-paste,  and 
11  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  the  sixth  of  an  inch ;  then 
imp  out  twenty  circular  pieces  with  a  fluted  cutter, 
out  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and  after  wetting 
ch  of  them  with  a  paste-brush  dipped  in  water,  fold 
em  up,  at  the  same  time  pressing  tne  two  parts  of  the 
ate  slightly,  so  as  to  cause  them  to  adhere  closely  to- 
ther.  They  must  then  be  placed  on  a  baking-sheet  in 
ws,  eeged  over,  and  baked  of  a  bright-light  colour; 
st  be^re  they  are  done,  some  fine  sugar  should  be 
aken  over  with  a  dredger,  and  they  must  then  be  put 
ck  again  in  the  oven  for  a  little  while  to  melt  the 
gar ;  pass  the  red-hot  salamander  over,  and  withdraw 

z  2 


840  THB  cook's  ouidi,  amb 

them.  Previously  to  serving  this  kind  of  pastiy,  a  broad 
strip  of  red-currant,  or  apple  jellj,  shoiild  be  placed 
across  the  centre. 

No.  793.— BREAD-ANDBUTTBR  PASTBY. 

Give  six  turns  to  half  a  pound  of  puff-paste,  and  roll 
it  out  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch ;  cut  this 
into  bands  about  three  inches  wide ;  then  cut  these  again 
into  strips  rather  better  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide, 
and  place  them  (on  the  cut  side)  on  a  baking-sheet  in 
rows  about  two  inches  apart,  so  as  to  allow  them  suffi- 
cient room  to  spread  out.  Bake  these  strips  of  paste  in 
a  rather  sharp  oven ;  and  just  before  they  are  done,  glaze 
them — that  is,  shake  some  fine  sugar  over,  and  then 
salamander  them.  About  two  dozen  of  these  are  required 
for  a  dish ;  they  must  be  spread  with  some  kind  of  pre- 
serve, and  stuck  together  in  pairs,  to  imitate  bread-and- 
butter.  Dish  them  up  on  a  napkin,  piled  up  in  sevend 
circular  rows,  in  a  pyramid. 

This  kind  of  pastry  may  also  be  dished  up  with  some 
stiffly-whipped  cream,  seasoned  with  a  glass  of  liqueur 
in  the  centre. 

No.  794.— RINGS  OR  WREATHS. 

Give  eight  turns  to  half  a  pound  of  puff-paste,  and  roll 
^Ida  out  to  the  sixth  part  of  an  inch  in  thickness ;  then 
stamp  out  twenty  circular  pieces  with  a  fluted  tin  cutter, 
about  one  inch  and  three-quaiiers  in  diameter,  and  stamp 
out  the  centre  of  these  with  a  plain  circular  cutter, 
about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  diameter;  next  place 
the  rings  on  a  wet  baking-sheet ;  shake  some  fine  sugar 
over  them,  and  bake  them  of  a  very  light  colour  (at  very 
moderate  heat).  When  they  are  done,  decorate  them 
with  some  whipped  white  of  egg  and  sugar,  over  which 
strew  some  coarse  sugar ;  put  them  to  dry  in  a  screen ; 
and  then  finish  decorating  them,  by  placing  or  inserting 
some  strips  of  currant  or  apple  -jelly  between  the  folds  or 
dots  of  the  decoration. 


HOnSXKSKPKUS  AMD   BUTLXK  M  ASSISTANT.  341 

NcU. — Puff-paste  turned  or  folded  eight  times,  then 
rolled  out  to  the  thickness  of  the  sixth  part  of  an  inch, 
Euad  stamped  out  with  appropriate  fancy-shaped  tin 
cutters — either  in  the  form  of  crescents,  leaves,  trefoil, 
or  shamrock,  stars,  &c.,  and  after  heing  baked  as  directed 
in  the  forgoing  case,  may  also  be  decorated  in  the 
same  manner :  a  comet  of  paper  should  be  used  for  this 
purpose. 

No.  795.— POLISH  CAKES. 

Give  seven  turns  to  half  a  pound  of  puflf- paste,  roll  it 
out  as  in  the  foregoing  cases,  and  then  cut  it  up  into 
square  pieces  measuring  rather  better  than  two  inches 
each  way ;  wet  these  in  the  centre,  and  then  fold  down 
the  comers,  so  as  to  make  them  all  meet  in  the  middle 
of  the  piece  of  paste ;  place  a  dot  of  paste  in  the  centre  of 
each,  pressing  it  down  with  the  end  of  the  finger ;  egg 
them  over,  and  bake  them  in  a  rather  sharp  oven,  of  a 
fine,  bright,  light  colour ;  and  just  before  they  are  done, 
shake  some  finely-sifted  sugar  over  them ;  put  them  back 
again  in  the  oven  to  melt  the  sugar,  and  then  pass  the 
red-hot  salamander  over  them  to  give  them  a  glossy  ap- 
pearance. Decorate  this  kind  of  pastry  with  red-currant 
or  apple  jelly. 

No.  796.— PLAITS. 

Give  nine  turns  to  half  a  pound  of  puti-paste,  roll  it 
out  to  the  thickness  of  the  eighth  of  an  inch,  and  then 
cut  this  into  bands  about  five  inches  in  width,  and 
divide  these  into  narrow  strips  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
wide.  Take  four  of  these  strips,  and  after  fastening 
them  together  at  one  end,  with  a  little  egg  or  water, 
plait  them  neatly  but  rather  loosely  together,  and  when 
finished,  fasten  the  ends.  As  each  plait  is  completed, 
place  it  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  when  they  are  cdl  ready, 
egg  them  over  and  bake  them  of  a  light  colour ;  and 
when  done,  let  them  be  glazed  as  usual;  just  before 
Bending  these  cakes  to  table,  decorate  them  by  placing 
in  the  small  cavities  some  dots  of  bright  currant  oi 
upple  jelly,  and  some  greengage  jam. 


8i2  rmi  oook'b  ouidb,  tixo 

No.  797.— APPLE  TAETLETS. 
Make  half  a  pound  of  tart-paste  (Na  953),  rollitont 
rather  thin,  then  stamp  ont  twenty  circular  flats,  withi 
finted  cotter  suited  to  the  size  of  the  tartlets,  and  ue 
them  to  line  the  moulds ;  All  each  tartlet  with  a  epom- 
ftil  of  apple  marmalade ;  cover  them  in  with  a  mosaic* 
of  paste,  e^  them  over,  place  them  on  a  haldng-aheet, 
and  bake  them  of  a  light  colour ;  when  done,  ebske 
some  fine  sugar  over  them,  and  use  the  rod-hot  nla- 
mander  to  give  them  a  glos^  appearance. 

No.  797i — APPLES  A  I,A  POETDGUAISK 


Prepare  some  apple  marmalade  witk  abont  a  dam> 
apples.  Split  also  a  dozen  apples  into  halves;  peeltbeni, 
and  remove  the  cores ;  and  then  place  them  in  a  de«p 
saiitapan  thickly  spread  with  butter ;  shake  some  ei^ 

*  HosuJo-boarda  for  tartlets  may  te  bad,  of  all  axa  and  pattern 
at  nay  tumei's  Bbop,  To  cut  ont  impreBsioiui  troia  tfaoe  it  ■ 
QcceBBOiy  to  nee  Bmall  circular  flats  of  raiaed  pie-paste,  which  nat 
be  placed  Oo  the  board,  and  preHtied  into  the  design,  b;  rolling  it 
with  a  paste-pin  ;  tbe  Buperflnons  paste  must  then  be  cot  ot  ibsrri 
away,  uul  the  mosaic  of  paste  that  remains  in  tbe  deaign  shstaa 
ont  of  the  board. 


HOUSSKiaBPBB'S  ANB  BUTLSB's  ASSISTANT.  348 

and  grated  lemon-peel  over  them,  and  bake  them  in  the 
oven.  Prepare  next  a  small  quantity  of  pastry-custard 
(No.  790),  also  an  ornamented  case  (No.  519),  which 
should  be  partially  baked.  \Vheu  the  foregoing  articles 
are  ready,  nearly  fill  the  case  with  the  marmalade  of 
apples,  leaving  an  opening  or  well  in  the  centre ;  then 
pde  the  pieces  of  apples  upon  the  maimalade  in  the 
form  of  a  dome,  leaving  the  centre  hollow ;  fill  this 
with  the  pastry-custard,  and  cover  the  whole  with  some 
orange-marmalade.  Next,  whip  four  whites  of  eggs 
quite  firm ;  mix  in  four  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  and  use 
this  meringue-paste  to  finish  the  apples,  according  to 
the  design  placed  at  the  head  of  this  article:  this  is 
done  by  first  masking  over  the  entire  surface  of  the 
dome  formed  by  the  apples  with  a  smooth  coating  of 
the  prepared  whites  of  eggs,  and  then  with  a  paper- 
comet,  filled  with  some  of  the  same,  marking  out  the 
design.  When  this  has  been  effected,  shake  some  sifted 
sugar  upon  it,  and  bake  the  meringue  of  a  ve!y  light- 
fawn  colour.  Just  before  sending  this  entrem^t  to  table, 
finish  ornamenting  it  by  filling  up  the  inner  part  of  the 
cross  with  alternate  stripes  or  layers  of  red  currant  and 
apple  jellies,  and  also  with  greengage  or  apricot  jam : 
these  must  be  arranged  so  as  to  show  their  colours 
distinctly,  which  will  produce  a  very  pretty  effect. 
This  entremit  should  be  served  hot. 

No.  797b.— APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

First,  line  the  bottom  of  a  plain  round  Charlotte 
mould  (see  Adams*  Illustrations)  with  small  thin  circu- 
lar shapes  of  bread  stamped  out  with  a  tin  cutter  the 
size  of  a  halfcrown-piece ;  dip  these  in  clarified  butter, 
and  let  them  be  placed  in  circular  order — overlaying 
each  other  until  the  bottom  is  covered, — at  the  same 
time  placing  one  of  these  pieces  in  the  centre  to  com- 
pletely cover  the  bottom  of  the  mould.  Next,  line  the 
sides  of  the  mould  with  thin  oblong  pieces  of  bread  cut 
an  inch  wide,  the  sixteenth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  of 


M4  TRB  OOOK'B  aUIDI,  AMD 

Buffloient  length  for  ^e  depth  of  the  mould ;  tbeae  mot 
also  be  dipped  in.  the.  butter  before  they  are  placed  in 
the  moold  in  the  maimer  repreeented  in  the  annexed 


iroodcnt.  The  Charlotte  ia  now  to  be  filled  with  well- 
reduced  apple  marmalade  made  as  foUowe:  viz., — peel. 
oore  and  slice  up  eighteen  apples ;  pat  them  inaatewpu 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  two  ounces  of  bntter  ana  ■ 
piece  of  citiniiiDon  and  lemon-peel  tied  together;  m< 
the  lid  on,  and  place  the  etewpan  to  boil  over  a  brid 
fire  until  the  apples  are  disHoNed ;  then  add  tweln 
ounces  of  sngar,  and  stir  the  marmalade  on  the  fin 
until  reduced  to  a  thick  substance,  bearing  in  mind  that 
it  must  be  stirred  constantly  while  on  the  fire  to  prereDi 
its  becoming  burnt.  Then,  the  Charlotte  beinr  filled 
with  the  marmalade,  cover  in  the  top  with  a  thin  ronpd 
piece  of  bread  made  to  fit  the  inner  circle  of  the  fingen 
of  bread :  place  it  on  a  baking-ubeet.  and  set  it  in  ■ 
rather  brisk  oven  to  be  baked  of  a  light  oolonr;  uJ 
when  turned  out  on  its  diah,  pour  some  diluted  tpricol 
jam  round  the  base,  and  serve, 

S.K  71>S.— APPLE  TABTLET8,— ANOTHEE  METHOD. 

Line  the  tartlet-pans  as  above  :  then  garnish  tbffl 

arith  halves  of  small  apples,  previously  turned  ui 


H0USBKBKP£B'R  ANXi    BUTLSB's   ASSISTANT.  845 

divested  of  the  cores,  and  afterwards  parboiled  in  a 
little  syrup  in  which  the  piece  of  a  lemon  has  been 
squeezed.  Bake  the  tartlets,  and  when  they  are  done, 
diLnte  some  apricot  jam  with  a  little  of  the  syiiip ;  use 
this  to  mask  Uie  apples  in  the  tartlets  ;  and  then  place 
a  preserved  cherry  on  the  centre  of  each. 

No.  799.-OHERRY  TARTLETS. 

Stone  two  pounds  of  Kentish  cherries  ;  put  them  into 
a  small  sugar-boiler  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
pounded  sugar ;  toss  them  in  this,  then  set  them  on  the 
stove-fire,  and  allow  them  to  boil  about  five  minutes : 
the  cherries  must  then  be  strained  on  a  sieve,  and  the 
syrup  reduced  to  about  one-third  part  of  its  quantity, 
Ihen  added  to  the  chenies,  and  kept  in  a  small  basin. 
Line  two  dozen  small  tartlet  pans  with  shoit-paste  or 
tart-paste  (the  flats  being  stamped  out  with  a  fluted 
cutter)  ;  knead  as  many  small  pieces  of  paste  as  there 
are  tartlets,  and  after  dipping  them  in  flour,  press  one 
of  them  into  each  of  the  tartlets;  place  them  on  a 
baking-sheet,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  (moderately 
heated)  to  be  baked  of  a  light  colour.  When  they  are 
aearly  done,  withdraw  them,  and  take  out  the  pieces  of 
paste ;  shake  some  fine  sugar  over  them,  and  then  glaze 
them  with  the  red-hot  salamander.  Just  before  serving 
the  tartlets,  fill  them  with  the  cherries. 

Note, — Raspberries,  currants,  gooseberries,  and  all 
kinds  of  plums  may  be  prepared  for  tartlets  by  gently 
boiling  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  about  a  pint  of  syrup ; 
the  fruit  should  then  be  drained  on  a  sieve,  and  the 
syrup  reduced  to  one-third  of  its  original  quantity,  and 
kept  with  the  fruit  in  a  small  basin  to  fill  the  tartlets 
with,  as  in  the  foregoing  case. 

No.  800.— TARTLETS  OF  PUFF-PASTE. 

Give  eight  turns  to  half  a  pound  of  puff-paste  (No. 
323) ;  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  the  sixth  part  of  an 
inoh,  and  then  with  a  circular  tin  cutter  about  one  inch 


346  THB  COOK'S  OUmS,   AMB 

and  three-qtiartors  in  diameter,  stamp  out  twenty  flats; 
i^in  use  a  small  cntter  measuring  one  inch  in  dia- 
meter, to  stamp  out  the  centre  of  these ;  next  gather  up 
the  trimmings,  knead  them  together  and  roll  them  out 
to  the  eighth  part  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  stamp 
out  as  many  flats  as  there  are  rings ;  place  them  on  a 
wetted  bakmg-sheet,  moisten  the  edges  with  a  soft  hmsh 
dipped  in  water ;  stick  the  rings  of  paste  on  these ;  shake 
some  sugar  over  them  with  the  dredger,  and  hake  them 
of  a  very  light  colour  (at  very  moderate  heat.)  When 
the  tartlets  are  done,  mask  the  hands  or  rings  with  a 
little  meringue-paste  ;  dip  them  either  in  some  chopped 
or  very  finely-shred  pistachios  or  almonds,  and  place 
them  in  the  screen  to  dry :  previously  to  serving  these 
tartlets,  they  may  he  filled  either  with  cherries,  cnrrantBi 
plums,  (&c.,  prepared  as  directed  ahove,  or  else  with  snj 
kind  of  preserve. 

No.  801.— MOSAIC  TABTLETa 

Prepare  two  dozen  puff-paste  tartlets  as  directed 
ahove,  and  fill  each  of  them  with  a  spoonful  of  apricot 
or  greengage  jam;  wet  round  the  edges,  and  place  t 
mosaic  of  paste  on  the  top  of  each ;  egg  these  oter 
slightly,  and  bake  them  of  a  light  colour;  when  they 
are  done,  shake  some  fine  sugar  over  them,  and  glaie 
them  with  the  red-hot  salamander. 

No.  802.— PARISIAN  LOAVES. 

Prepare  some  small  slender  finger-biscuits ;  spread 
them  with  apricot  or  greengage  jam,  and  stick  two  of 
them  together ;  then  hold  one  at  a  time  on  a  fork ;  mask 
them  over  slightly  with  some  meringue-paste,  and  with 
a  paper-comet  filled  with  some  of  the  same,  draw 
parallel  lines  across  the  cakes  in  a  slanting  direction ; 
when  they  are  all  completed,  shake  some  sugar  over 
them,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  be  baked,  or  rather 
dried  of  a  very  light-fawu  colour.  When  done,  insert 
some  very  narrow  strips  of  currant  jelly,  greengage  jam, 
and  apple  jelly,  between  the  bars  of  the  decoration. 


H0USEKBKP£B*8  AND   BXTTLEk's   ASSISTANT.  S47 

No.  803.— APPLE  TART  WITH  QUINCE. 

el  the  apples,  remove  the  cores,  cut  them  in  slices 
larters,  and  arrange  them  neatly  in  the  pie-dish ; 

add  the  quince,  which  must  be  sliced  thin  and 
3d  with  a  little  water,  sugar,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  in 
aJI  stewpan  over  a  slow  fire ;  add  sugar  enough  to 
ten  the  quantity  of  apples  required  for  the  tart, 
some  grated  lemon-peel ;  cover  the  tart  with  puff- 
,  first  placing  a  band  of  paste  upon  the  wetted 
of  the  dish,  and  then,  after  wetting  the  band,  place 
over  upon  its  place,  and  having  pressed  it  down  all 
1,  cut  the  edge  evenly  all  round,  scollop  it  with 
Jack  of  a  knife ;  decorate  the  top  with  leaves  of 

;  egg  it  over  and  bake  it ;  and  when  done,  dredge 
3r  with  sugar,  and  salamander  it. 

No.  804.— PEAR  TART. 

mellow  pears  be  used  for  the  purpose,  the  fore- 
5  instructions  may  be  followed;  but  if  stewing 
»  are  made  use  of,  they  must  first  be  stewed  with  a 

water,  sugar,  and  a  few  cloves  and  lemon-peel. 
a  the  pears  are  cold,  put  them  in  the  dish  ;  use  tart- 

to  cover  it,  and  half  bake  it ;  sprinkle  it  over  with 
r  and  white  of  egg  whisked  together ;  shake  sifted 
:  over  the  surface,  and  put  it  back  in  the  oven  to 
I  baking  of  a  light  colour. 

No.  805.— FRUIT  TARTS  IN  GENERAL. 

ben  the  larger  kinds  of  stone  fruits  are  used  for 
ng  tarts,  such  as  peaches,  apricots,  &c.,  the  stones 
be  taken  out  and  cracked,  and  the  kernels  placed 
the  top  of  the  fruit  in  the  dish.  Add  a  spoonful  of 
r,  and  sugar  enough  to  sweeten ;  cover  with  tart- 
,  and  finish  as  in  the  preceding  case, 
r  making  cherry  or  damson  tarts,  follow  the  same 
tions,  except  that  the  stones  should  not  be  re- 
d. 

oseberries,  currants,  raspberries,  and  mulberrieSi 
be  treated  in  the  same  way. 


M8  THS  CX>0K'8   eUIDlL   AXD 


CHAPTER  XXL 
FEITTEHS. 


No.  806.— APPLE  FRITTEB8. 

(Jut  the  apples  in  thick  slices ;  scoop  out  the  cores  widi 
a  tin  cutter ;  then  pare  off  the  rind,  and  place  the  pieoei 
of  apple  in  a  basin ;  add  a  liquenr  glass  of  hrandy,  a 
spoonfal  of  sugar,  and  grated  lemon-peel ;  and  let  tfaem 
steep  in  this  for  an  hour ;  next,  dip  each  piece  of  appl« 
in  some  light  frying  batter  (No.  288),  and  drop  them 
gently  into  some  hot  frying  fat ;  turn  them  oTcr  in 
this  lightly  with  a  fork,  and  when  fried  crisp,  and  of  » 
light  colour,  drain  and  dish  them  up  on  a  napkin ;  dredge 
some  sifted  sugar  over  them,  and  serve. 
Pear  fritters  are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

No.  807.— PIXE-APPLE  FBITTEBS. 

Peel  the  pine  apple;  cut  it  in  thick  slices;  divide 
these  into  fingers ;  steep  them  with  a  little  maraschmo 
for  an  hour ;  and  use  frying  batter  (No.  289).  FiniA 
fritters  as  in  No.  806. 

No.  808.— ORANGE  FRTTTBRS. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  halves ;  use  a  sharp  knife  to  re- 
move the  peel  and  the  pith,  and  pick  out  the  pips* 
steep  the  pieces  of  oranges  in  a  liqueur  glass  of  brasdv 
and  a  spoonful  of  sugar  for  an  hour ;  and  when  about  to 


H0l7SfiESEPEB*S   AND   BUTLEB  S   ASSISTANT.  349 

Y  them,  let  them  first  be  drained  on  a  sieve,  dipped  sepa- 
toly  in  the  batter  (No.  288),  and  fried  in  the  usual  way. 

No.  809.— PEACH  FRITTERS. 

Cut  the  peaches  in  quarters ;  remove  the  skins ;  steep 
e  pieces  in  a  glass  of  noyeau  and  a  little  sugar  for 
I  hour;  then  drain  them;  dip  each  piece  in  German 
jdng  batter,  No  289 ;  fry  the  fritters  of  a  light  colour, 
id  crisp ;  and  having  drained  them,  let  them  be  placed 
order  on  a  baking-sheet,  dredged  over  with  sifted 
gar,  salamandered  and  dished  up  without  a  napkin,  and 
ith  some  custard- whip,  No.  99,  poured  round  them.  All 
nds  of  stone  fruit  are  to  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

No.  810.— CINTRA  FRITTERS. 

These  are  prepared  from  remains  of  Brioche,  Baba. 
Dmpi^gne,  or  any  other  cake ;  whichever  is  used  foi 
16  purpose  should  be  first  cut  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an 
ich  thick,  and  stamped  out  with  a  round  tin  cutter  the 
ze  of  a  crown-piece,  placed  flat  in  a  dish,  and  soaked 
ith  the  following  mixture :  a  gill  of  cream,  an  ounce 
'  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  flower-water.  Pre- 
ously  to  frying  these  fritters,  let  them  be  dredged 
^er  with  flour,  when  fried  of  a  light  colour ;  dish  them 
3  without  a  napkin,  and  pour  some  diluted  preserve  of 
ly  kind  most  convenient  round  the  base. 

No.  811.— SPANISH  PUFFS. 

Make  some  paste  as  shown  in  No.  761,  and  with  the 
igers  or  with  a  teaspoon  lay  this  out  in  the  form  of 
und  balls,  the  size  of  small  walnuts,  on  sheets  of 
ittered  paper;  these  being  held  at  one  end,  must  be 
unersed  in  hot  frying  fat  to  be  gently  shaken  off* 
5  they  are  frying,  they  are  to  be  carefully  moved  about 
ith  a  draining  spoon,  until  they  are  done  of  a  light 
lour,  and  have  increased  four  times  their  original  size ; 
ey  must  then  be  drained  on  a  wire  sieve,  dished  up  on 
napkin,  some  sugar  dredged  over  them,  and  served 
imediately. 


860  THS  00OK8  OUID^   AJtU 


Na  812.— OUSTABD  FBTTTEJia 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  cimuonon  and  lemon,  add 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  one  onnce  of  flour,  a  grain  of  aah, 
and  six  ^gs ;  beat  all  together,  and  st^mi  this  costaid 
in  a  plain  mould  previously  spread  inside  with  butler; 
and  when  done  firm,  and  quite  cold,  let  it  be  carefonj 
cut  into  square  pieces,  dipped  in  frying  batter  in  wbich 
there  has  been  mixed  a  little  cream,  and  dropped  se- 
parately in  hot  fiying  fa,t ;  when  they  haire  attained  a 
light  colour  all  over,  drain  and  dish  them  np  with  some 
kind  of  preserve  round  the  base. 

No.  813.— POBTUGUESE  FBITTEBS. 

Put  six  ounces  of  rice  into  a  pint  of  milk,  four  ooncei 
of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  cinnamon,  and  lemon-peel; 
boil  this  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  by  which  time  the  rice  will  hate 
entirely  absorbed  all  moisture.  Mix  in  three  yolks  of 
^gs,  and  then  make  up  this  preparation  of  rice  into 
balls  the  size  of  large  walnuts — introducing  in  the 
centre  of  each  a  teaspoonful  of  orange-marmalade ;  egg 
and  crumb  them  over  carefully,  and  as  you  do  so,  pl^ce 
them  in  a  wire  frying  basket,  and  immerse  them  in  hot 
frying  fat.  As  soon  as  they  have  attained  a  light  colour- 
drain  and  dish  them  up  on  a  napkin ;  sugar  them  oTer. 
and  serve. 


No.  814.— PUDDING  FBITTERS. 

These  are  prepared  with  remains  of  any  kind  of  custord 
puddings — such  as  cabinet,  ground  rice,  arrowroot,  dsc- 
or  even  plum  pudding.  The  pudding  intended  to  be 
used  for  the  purpose  should  be  cut  in  neat  squai* 
egged  over  and  bread-crumbed,  and  being  fried  w  * 
light  colour,  may  be  dished  either  with  or  wiihoot 
preserve. 


HOUSEKEJfil'EU'S  ASl)   BUTLKB'b  ABSISTANT.  351 

No.  815.— GERMAN  FRITTERS. 

)  a  matter  of  economy  and  convenience,  it  is  cufi- 
jy  to  serve  these  fritters  only  when  you  have  had 
don  to  prepare  brioche-paste  for  other  pni'poses ;  in 
th  case,  about  twelve  ounces  of  the  paste  should  be 
in  reserve,  and  used  as  follows ; — ^EoU  out  the 
3  to  the  thickness  of  a  penny-piece ;  moisten  this 
itly  with  a  paste-brush  dipped  in  water;  place 
1  balls  of  preserve  upon  this,  at  distances  of  two 
es  from  each  other;  cover  over  with  some  of  the 
)  paste  rolled  out  thin,  similarly  to  the  first  piece ; 
I  the  edge  of  the  thumb  press  down  all  round  each 
p  of  preserve ;  stamp  these  out  with  a  round  tin 
Br,  and  as  you  do  so,  place  them  in  rows  on  sheets 
uttered  paper  upon  a  baking-sheet,  and  fry  them  in 
Crying  fet,  of  a  light  colour  ;  when  done,  dish  them 
napkin ;  dredge  them  over  with  cinnamon  pounded 
I  sugar,  and  serve. 


3fi2  TH&  OOOK*B  aUIBK.   ASD 


CHAPTER  XXn. 
SOUFFLES  AND  OMELETS. 


No.  816.-POTATO  FLOUR  SOUFFLE. 

Put  six  ounces  of  potato-fionr  into  a  stewpan  witk 
ten  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter,  • 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  or  an  oraDge 
rubbed  on  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  milk  or  oream;  miXi 
and  stir  this  over  the  £re  until  it  boils,  taking  care  to 
stir  it  briskly  i^o  as  to  keep  the  butter  smooth:  then 
add  six  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  eight  or  ten 
whisked  into  a  firm  substantial  froth.  Mix  lightly 
together,  and  with  this  fill  a  souffle-dish  lining,  round 
wh  oh  has  been  secured  a  high  band  of  buttered  paper, 
to  T  -event  the  batter  from  falling  over  the  sides  as  it 
rises  in  the  oven ;  place  the  souffle  on  a  baking-sheet  in 
an  oven  of  moderate  heat,  taking  care  to  move  it  round 
occasionally  so  that  it  may  receive  the  heat  equaDy  on 
all  sides.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  will  suffice  to 
bake  a  souffle  of  this  size ;  and  if  these  directions  are 
attended  to,  it  should  make  its  appearance  on  the  dinner- 
table  as  high  again  as  the  souffle-dish.  For  a  pattern  of 
this  dish,  see  Angell's  Illustrations. 

Note. — Souffles  of  arrowroot,  tapioca,  sago,  ground 
rice,  and  all  other  kinds  of  farinaceous  substances,  are 
also  capable  of  being  made  into  souffles,  by  following 
the  foregoing  instructions. 


housveekpeb's  and  butt.vr's  ASSisTAinr.         858 


No.  817.— SOUFFLE  OF  RICE. 

sh  four  ounces  of  rice,  and  boil  it  in  water  for  five 
tes ;  then  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
ances  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  salt, 
any  kind  of  flavouring,  such  as  lemon,  orange, 
la,  sherry,  or  any  kind  of  liqueur  or  orange-flower 
'.  A  very  small  quantity  of  any  one  of  these  will 
3  for  the  purpose.  Put  the  lid  on  the  stewpan, 
e  rice  to  simmer  very  slowly  over  a  slackened  fire 
it  has  boiled,  and  in  about  an  hour's  time,  it  will 
absorbed  all  the  milk,  and  have  become  quite  soft, 
oiks,  and  nine  whites  of  eggs  whipped  firm,  must 
be  lightly  mixed  in  with  the  rice,  and  baked  in  a 
6-dish,  as  directed  in  the  preceding  case.  Failing 
ouffl^-dish,  a  thin  eai-thenware  basin,  or  deep  pie- 
may  be  substituted  for  baking  the  souffle  in. 

No.  818.— COFFEE  SOUFFLE. 

six  ounces  of  flour  add  ten  ounces   of  sugar,  a 

salt,  two  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  strong 

I,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream ;   stir  together  biiskl^^ 

the  fire  until  it  boils ;   and  then  work  in  six  yolks 

gs,  and  mix  in  lightly  the  whisked  whites  of  nine 

bake  the  souffle  as  directed  in  Ko.  816.  /i 

'e. — Chocolate  souffles  are  made  as  above,  ub- 
ing  four  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  for  the  half 
)f  coffee,  and  adding  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

No.  819. -FRUIT  SOUFFLE. 

novo  the  stones  from  a  dozen  ripe  apricots,  and  put 
Dricots  in  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and 
,  pint  of  water  ;  boil  this  over  the  fire — stirring  the 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  fruit  is  dissolved, 
ihen  nib  it  through  a  tammy  or  sieve :  use  this 
ix  with  four  ounces  of  flour  and  two  ounces  of 
r,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  having  stirred  the 

2  A 


854  THB  oook's  quids,  ahd 

mixture  over  the  fire  as  in  the  foregoing  case,  finish  the 
souffle  in  the  same  manner. 

Note. — Souffles  may  be  made  with  all  kinds  of  fraii* 
prepared  in  the  same  way. 

No.  820.— OMELETTE  SOUFFLE. 

Put  six  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  basin  with  six  ounces  of 
pounded  sugar,  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  floor, 
and  any  of  the  following  flavourings:  orange-flower 
water,  grated  lemon-peel,  orauge-peel,  vanQla,  or  cin- 
namon :  work  these  ingredients  with  a  wooden  spoon 
into  a  creamy  batter,  and  then  mix  in  lightly  nine 
whisked  whites  of  eggs ;  pile  this  on  an  earthen  dish, 
or  a  silver  dish,  bake  it  in  the  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  sprinkle  sugar  over  it,  and  serve. 

Na  821.-PLAIN  PANOAKEa 

Mix  in  a  basin  with  a  spoon  four  ounces  of  floor, 
four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  few  ratifias,  some  grated  lemoD- 
peel,  and  pint  of  milk  or  cream ;  and  fry  spoonftilB  d 
this  batter  with  a  little  butter  in  small  frying-pans 
over  a  clear  fire ;  the  pancakes  must  be  fried  on  both 
sides,  and  when  done,  folded  up  with  sugar  inside,  and 
dished  up  on  a  pancake-drainer  on  its  dish,  to  allow  of 
all  grease  to  run  off  from  them. 

Note, — For  a  pattern  of  the  pancake-drainer,  see 
Angell's  Illustrations. 

French  pancakes  are  made  by  introducing  some  pi^ 
sei've  in  the  ordinary  pancakes. 


housxkxxpeb's  and  sutler's  assistant.         855 


CHAPTER  XXIIL 
DIFFEEENT  KINDS  OF  PUDDINGH. 


No.  822.— BROWN-BREAD  PUDDING. 

Sw  ready  the  following  ingredients :  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  dry  brown  bread-crumbs,  six  ounces  of  pounded 
^iigar,  half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  some  giuted  lemon- 
peel,  pounded  cinnamon,  one  pound  of  morel  cherries, 
•Dd  eight  eggs.  Mix  these  ingredients  together  in  a 
oaan;  remembering  that  the  whites  of  eggs  must  be 
''^Upped  firm.  Next,  grease  smoothly  the  inside  of  a 
plain  round  mould,  strew  some  brown  bread-crumbs 
-herein,  fill  the  mould  with  alternate  layers  of  the  pre- 
paration and  morel  cherries,  bake  the  pudding  on  a 
taking-sheet,  in  a  moderate  heat,  and  when  done,  turn  it 
>Bt  on  its  dish,  shake  some  cinnamon-sugar  over  it,  pour 
lome  cherry-sauce  round  it,  and  serve. 
Note, — This  kind  of  pudding  furnishes  an  excellent 
old  sweet. 

No.  823.-SEMOLINA  PUDDING. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  semolina  in  a  stewpan  with  six 
imces  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter,  a  grain  of  salt,  a 
int  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water, 
id  a  few  ratifias ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it 
dckens,  and  keep  stirring  on  the  fire  until  it  ceases 

adhere  to  the  sides  of  the  stewpan ;  it  must  then  be 
moved  from  the  fire,  and  after  having  vigorously 
3iked  in  six  whole  eggs,  spread  the  inside  of  a  plain 

2  A  2 


856  THs  cook's  oums.  amd 

mould  with  butter ;  fill  the  motild  with  the  prepaTa^oo, 
and  steam  the  pudding  in  the  usual  way,  hj  placiog  it 
upon  a  plate  turned  upside-down  in  a  stewpan,  and 
surrounded  with  about  three  inches  of  boiling  water; 
the  lid  must  bo  put  close  and  the  water  kept  on  tbe 
gentle  boil,  so  as  to  produce  a  continuous  supply  of 
steam  with  which  to  cook  the  pudding  through;  this 
will  require  about  an  hour;  and  when  done,  turn  ^e 
pudding  out  on  its  dish;  pour  some  custard-whip, 
No.  93,  or  some  fruit-sauce,  No.  96,  over  it,  and  serve. 

Ncfte. — All  kinds  of  farinaceous  substances  treated  in 
this  manner  make  excellent  puddings. 

No.  824.— VICTORIA  PUDDING. 

Put  the  following  ingredients  into  a  basin:— ei^t 
ounces  of  roughly-chopped  marrow,  six  ounces  of  fltmr, 
four  ounces  of  apricot  jam,  four  ounces  of  chopped  apples, 
four  oimces  of  bread-crumbs,  and  of  dried  cherrie.s  and 
shred  candied-peel, — weighing  altogether  Fix  ooncea; 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  tea.spooiiful  of  powdered  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  and  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  five  whole  eggs :  mix  well 
together ;  fill  a  buttered  mould  with  this,  tie  it  up  in  t 
cloth  in  the  usual  way,  and  boil  the  pudding  for  an  how 
and  a  half;  when  done,  turn  it,  dish,  and  serve  with 
whip  sauce,  No.  98. 

No.  824.— GERMAN  PUDDING. 

Prepare  twelve  ounces  of  brioche  cut  up  in  small  dice, 
or  the  equivalent  of  cnimb  of  bread  or  any  other  cake 
cut  in  the  same  way ;  add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
two  ounces  of  sweet- almonds,  and  eight  bitter-almondi 
pounded,  six  ounces  of  sultana  raisins,  a  burnt-sugar  cna* 
tard  ill  which  there  have  afterwards  been  mixed  six  eggl. 
whipped  raw,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  and  a  glass  of  madeixa. 
Mix  altogether,  and  with  this  preparation  fill  a  buttered 
mould ;  steam  the  pudding  in  the  usual  way,  and  i^fli 
turned  out  on  its  dish,  seive  with  whip  No.  93. 


houszkkepek's  and  butlers  assistant.         857 

No.  825.— CABINET  PUDDING. 

read  tlie  inside  of  a  mould  with  butter,  and  oma- 
:  the  bottom  and  the  sides  with  dried  cherries,  or 
IS  and  candied-peel ;  fill  the  mould  with  alternate 
i  of  sponge-cakes,  and  ratifias,  or  macaroons ;  then 
p  the  mould  with  a  cold  custard  made  with  seven 
and  a  pint  of  milk  boiled  with  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
88  of  brandy,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon ;  all 
mixed  together;  steam  the  pudding  for  an  hour 
i  quarter,  and  when  done,  serve  with  arrowroot  or 
sauce. 

No.  826— CHESTNUT  PUDDING. 

it  twelve  ounces  of  chestnut  farina  (Crosse  and 
cwell's)  into  a  stewpan,  add  six  ounces  of  pounded 
',  a  spoonful  of  vanilla  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  four 
58  of  Dutter,  and  a  pint  of  milk ;  stir  this  over  the 
mtil  it  thickens,  and  then  quicken  the  motion  of 
poon  until  the  paste  leaves  the  sides  of  the  stewpan ; 
st  then  be  removed  from  the  fire,  and  the  yolks  of 
rgs  incoi'porated  therewith ;  then  mix  in  gently  the 
hites  whipped  firm,  and  use  this  preparation  to  fill 
in  mould  spread  inside  with  butter;  place  it  on  a 
g- sheet,  and  bake  it  in  an  oven  of  moderate  heat 
30ut  an  hour;  when  done,  turn  it  out  on  its  dish, 
some  diluted  apricot  jam  romid  it,  and  serve. 

No.  827.— GINGER  PUDDING. 

t  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  stewpan  with  six  ounces  of 
and  six  ounces  of  butter,  and  sot  this  on  the  fire 
1 ;  as  soon  as  the  milk  rises,  withdraw  it,  and  throw 
[f  a  pound  of  flour,  stir  this  quickly  with  a  wooden 
to  mix  it  well,  and  then  stir  the  paste  over  the 
)r  a  few  minutes,  until  it  ceases  to  adhere  to  the 
of  the  stewpan ;  it  must  then  be  withdrawn  from 
re,  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  four  ounces  of 
ed  preserved  ginger  well  mixed  in  with  it ;  after 


858  TiiK  oook's  guidb.  and 

wliich  gently  incorporate  the  six  whites  whipped  finni 
fill  a  mould  spread  with  butter  with  this ;  steam  the  pud- 
ding in  the  usual  way  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter,. and 
serve  with  whip  sauce,  No.  99,  in  which  there  has  been 
mixed  the  syrup  from  the  ginger. 

No.  828.— PINE-APPLE  PUDDING. 

To  prepare  this  pudding,  it  is  necessary  to  follow  the 
directions  given  in  the  preceding  number,  snbstitating 
pine  apple  for  ginger. 

No.  829.— LEMON  PUDDING. 

Put  the  strained  juice  of  six  lemons,  and  the  rind  of 
three  rubbed  on  lumps  of  sugar,  into  a  basin  with  six 
ounces  of  bruised  ratifias,  and  six  ounces  of  sugar,  a  pint 
of  cream,  ten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  six  whites  whipped ;  add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  work  these 
ingredients  together  for  five  minutes  with  i^  whisk, 
and  then  pour  the  mixture  into  a  pie^dish  already  fm- 
nished  with  a  thin  border  of  puff-paste  round  the  rim  rf 
the  dish,  and  reaching  half  way  down  to  the  hottouL 
Shake  some  bniised  ratifias  over  the  surface;  set  the 
pudding  on  a  baking-tin,  and  push  it  in  the  oven  to  bake 
for  about  half  an  hour,  of  a  very  light-fawn  colour. 

No.  8S0.— ORANGE  PUDDING. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  foregoing ;  ten 
oranges  may  be  used  for  the  purpose,  and  the  rind  af 
three  to  flavour  the  pudding. 

No.  831.— PLAIN  BREAD-PUDDING. 

Put  twelve  ounces  of  bread-crumbs  into  a  basin  with 
six  ounces  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon ;  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  upon  this,  cotct 
it  with  a  plate,  and  allow  it  to  soak  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour;  next,  add  four  whole  eggs;  mix  well  together, 


housekbepkb's  and  butlsb's  assistant.         359 

ttd  1180  this  preparation  to  fill  a  buttered  mould  or 
basin,  and  steam  the  pudding  as  usual ;  when  done, 
serve  with  arrowroot  sauce,  No.  97. 

No.  832.-RU8K  PUDDING. 

This  is  prepared  as  in  the  previous  number,  substi- 
tuting eight  ounces  of  rusks  for  the  bread-orumbs. 

No.  833.— APPLE  PUDDING. 

Peel  a  dozen  good  apples,  cut  them  in  small  quarters, 
remove  the  cores,  toss  them  in  a  sautapan  over  a  slow 
fire,  with  a  pat  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  grated  lemon- 
peel,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar ;  and  as  soon  as  the  apples 
become  slightly  softened,  set  them  aside  to  cool ;  next, 
line  a  pudding-basin  with  suet-paste ;  fill  it  with  the 
apples,  cover  it  in  with  paste,  tie  the  pudding  up  in  a 
ckyth,  and  boil  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 

No.  834.— PLUM  PUDDING. 

Put  the  following  ingredients  in  a  basin: — three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  a  like  quantity  of  currants, 
six  ounces  of  candied  mixed-peol,  one  pound  of  chopped 
beef-suet,  four  ounces  of  chopped  apples,  one  pound  of 
flour,  six  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  half  a  pound  of  moist 
sugar,  five  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  a  glass  of  brandy, 
half  an  ounce  of  pounded  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  and  a  few  coriander-seeds,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  some  grated  lemon-peel ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  boil 
the  pudding  either  in  a  cloth  or  in  a  basin,  or  a  plain 
mould,  for  four  hours  and  a  half ;  and  when  don«»  serve 
with  whip  sauce,  No.  93. 

No.  835.— TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Put  ten  ounces  of  tapioca  into  a  stewpan  vntn  a  quart 
of  milk,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  some  grated  lemon-peel ;  stir  this  over 
the  fire  imtil  it  boils,  then  withdraw  it ;  add  four  eggs ' 
nix  well,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  pie-dish. 


860  THV  oook'b  ottidv.  asd 

^ote. — If  the  whites  are  whipped  sepamtely,  and 
gently  mixed  in  with  the  preparation,  the  pudding  will 
be  much  lighter.  All  kinds  of  &iinaoeoiis  sabBtonces 
may  be  prepared  as  above. 

No.  836.— RAfiPBEBBY-BOLL  PUDDING. 

First,  make  a  pound  of  suet-paste  in  the  followiog 
manner  : — mix  one  pound  of  flour  with  half  a  ponnd  of 
chopped  suet,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  and  nearly 
half  a  pint  of  milk ;  roll  the  paste  up  into  a  ball,  and 
then  roll  it  out  with  a  rolling-pin  in  the  same  manner  as 
you  would  puff-paste,  and  give  it  four  turns ;  this  accom- 
plished, roll  the  paste  out  square,  to  the  thickness  of 
rather  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch ;  spread  some  rasp- 
berry', or  any  other  kind  of  jam,  all  over  this  without 
allowing  it  to  reach  the  edges  of  the  paste  ;  and  then 
proceed  to  roll  it  up,  so  as  to  fold  the  jam  inside; 
wet  the  ends  of  the  pudding,  press  them  securely 
together,  spread  out  a  cloth  on  the  table,  grease  it  with 
butter,  strew  some  flour  over  this,  place  the  pudding 
at  the  edge  of  the  cloth  fronting  you,  and  roll  the  pud- 
ding up  tight  in  it ;  tie  the  ends  with  string,  put  it  in 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  for  an  hour  and  a 
half ;  when  turned  out  of  the  cloth,  cut  it  up  in  slices, 
dredge  them  over  with  cinnamon-sugar,  dish  up  neatly 
in  a  pile,  and  serve  with  cold  cinnamon  and  lemon- 
custard. 

No.  837.— MUFFIN  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  or  cream  with  a  pinch 
of  salt,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  six  bruised  bitter-almonds, 
and  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  lemon-peel ;  and  when  thib 
has  become  partially  cold,  mix  in  six  whole  eggs,  and 
strain  this  cold  custard  into  a  basin ;  next,  cut  either 
four  muffins  or  crumpets  into  fingers,  and  lay  them  m 
rows  on  a  dish,  and  with  a  spoon  pour  enough  of  the 
custard  over  the  pieces  of  muffin  to  thoroughly  soak 
them  through.     You  then  spread  the  inside  of  a  plaia 


houseeespeb'b  and  bi7tleb*8  assistant.         861 

»Tild  with  butter,  and  decorate  the  sides  and  bottom 
th  candied-peel;  place  a  close  layer  of  the  steeped 
gers  of  muffin  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould ;  spread  a 
n  layer  of  orange-marmalade  upon  this,  then  another 
^er  of  muffin,  and  so  on,  until  the  mould  is  filled ;  after 
s  you  add  a  small  glass  of  brandy  to  the  remainder 
the  custard,  and  pour  it  very  gently  into  the  pudding- 
luld;  steam  the  pudding  ^owly  for  an  hour  and  a 
arter,  and  when  on  its  dish,  serve  with  almond  whip, 
u93. 


86S  THV  OOOK'B  OUIDI.   kMD 


CHAPTEE  XXIV. 

JELLIES  IN  GENERAL. 


No.  838.— CALF  8-FEET  JELLY. 

Split  four  calfs  feet,  and  put  them  on  to  boil  in  a  gal- 
lon of  water ;  skim  them  well,  and  set  them  to  continiie 
gently  boiling  for  about  four  hours,  by  which  time  the 
water  will  be  reduced  to  half  its  first  quantity;  then 
strain  the  stock  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  and  when 
it  has  become  cold,  and  set  in  a  firm  jelly,  scrape  off  the 
grease,  wash  the  surface  of  the  calfs  feet  stock  with  a 
little  scalding  water,  and  after  throwing  this  away,  dab 
it  over  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  put  the  stock  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  two  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  twelve  lemons, 
the  rind  of  six,  a  bruiKed  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  twenty 
coriander-seeds ;  set  this  on  the  fire  to  dissolve,  and  then 
add  six  whites  of  eggs  well  whisked  with  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  continue  whisking  the  jelly  on  the  fire  until 
it  begins  to  boil ;  yon  then  add  a  pint  of  sherry,  put  the 
lid  on  with  some  live  embers  of  charcoal  upon  it,  and 
allow  it  to  simmer  slowly  by  the  side  of  the  stove  for 
twenty  minutes  longer,  and  then  pour  it  into  a  jelly-beg 
(see  Adams'  Illustrations),  with  a  basin  placed  under  it 
to  receive  the  jelly  as  it  passes  through  it,  and  keep 
putting  it  bick  through  the  bag  until  it  passes  quite 
bright  and  clear ;  when  all  the  jelly  has  passed  through, 
put  it  away  in  basins  to  be  used  according  to  directioitf 
or  convenience. 


nOUSXKEBPSB's  AXD    BUTLEB'S  ASSISTANT.  863 

No.  839.- GELATINE  JELLY. 

To  four  ounces  of  gelatine  (to  be  had  of  all  grocers), 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pouna  of  sugar,  three  pints  ol 
water,  the  juice  of  six  lemons,  and  the  peel  of  two,  a  bit 
of  cinnamon,  and  a  few  coriander-seeds;  stir  this  on 
the  fire  nntil  the  gelatine  is  dissolved ;  then  add  three 
whites  of  e^s  whipped  with  a  gill  of  water,  and  con- 
tinue stirring  the  jelly  on  the  fire  until  it  boils,  and 
then  lift  it  off  to  the  side,  cover  it  over,  and  allow  it  to 
continue  gently  boiling  for  about  five  minutes  :  it  must 
then  be  run  tiirough  a  jelly-^ag  as  in  the  preceding 
Cuse,  and  either  put  in  a  mould  to  be  set  in  rough  ice, 
or  else  kept  for  other  uses,  as  will  be  hereafter  indi- 
cated 

No.  840.— ORANGE  JELLY. 

Rub  the  rind  of  six  oranges  upon  lumps  of  loaf-sugar, 
and  put  these  in  a  basin  with  the  juice  of  twelve ;  add 
a  pint  of  clarified  syrup.  No.  842,  and  two  ounces  of 
ckuified  isinglass,  or  gelatine ;  mix,  and  set  the  jelly  in 
a  mould  in  rough  ice.  When  about  to  send  to  table, 
dip  the  mould  in  hot  water,  turn  it  upside-down  on  its 
dish ;  lift  off  the  mould,  and  serve. 

No.  841.— LEMON  JELLY. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  the  fore- 
going ;  but  there  is  also  another  way  of  making  lemon 
jelly  bright : — put  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  the  peel 
of  three  in  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  gelatine, 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  water ;  dissolve  this 
by  stirring  it  on  the  fire,  and  then  add  three  whites  of 
eggs  whipped  with  a  gill  of  water  ;  whisk  the  jelly  on 
the  fire  until  it  boils  for  three  minutes,  and  then  run 
it  several  times  through  the  bag;  and  when  it  runs 
bright,  put  it  in  its  mould,  and  set  it  in  rough  ice. 

No.  842.— TO  CLAEIFY  SYRUP. 

To  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  add  a  quart  of  watei, 
and  half  a  white  of  egg ;  whisk  all  together  in  a  stew* 


864  THi  cook's  guids,  abb 

pan  or  sugar-boiler,  and  set  it  to  boil  gently  for  five 
minutes,  adding  occasionally  a  little  cold  water;  and 
then  strain  it  through  a  napkin  into  a  basin. 

Sugar  so  clarified  will  prove  on  trial,  with  a  symp- 
gauge,  to  be  of  twenly-eight  degrees'  strength. 

No.  843.— TO  CLARIFY  ISINGLASS. 

The  best  isinglass  comes  from  Hussia — the  finest  from 
Archangel ;  there  are  many  spurious  imitations  manii- 
fuctured  in  England — all  more  or  less  impossible  to 
clarify :  these  kinds  of  isinglass  are  all  more  or  less 
wortliless,  and  are  easily  detected  from  their  extreme 
whiteness,  and  fine,  paper-like,  shi*ed  appearance ; 
while  genuine  isinglass,  whether  in  sheets  or  shred, 
presents  all  the  appearance  of  a  dull,  dingy,  semi-opaque 
looking  hard  skin.  The  spurious  isinglass  is  almost 
instantly  dissolved  by  merely  stirring  it  in  boiling 
water,  while  genuine  isinglass  requires  half  an  hour's 
gentle  boiling  to  dissolve  it. 

When  about  to  clarify  isinglass,  it  is  necessary — first, 
to  cut  it  in  shreds,  and  put  it  in  a  very  clean  stewpan, 
in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  to  half  a  pint 
of  cold  water ;  stir  this  on  the  fire  until  it  boils,  and 
then  set  it  down  by  the  side  to  boil  gently  for  half  an 
hour ;  a  few  minutes  before  it  is  removed,  add  a  lump 
of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  wood- vinegar,  and  a  little 
cold  water;    stir  all  together,  and  remove  the  scum 
a>  it  rises  to  the  surface ;  and,  at  the  end  of  the  time, 
strain  through  a  sieve,  or  napkin,  for  use. 

No.  844.— PINE-APPLE  JELLY. 

Peel  a  pine  apple  of  about  a  pound  weight ;  pick  ont 
the  specks,  cut  it  up  in  slices,  and  put  these  in  a  basin. 
Clarify  twelve  ounces  of  sugar  with  a  pint  of  water,  the 
juice  of  two  lemons,  and  half  a  white  of  egg ;  strain  the 
syrup  upon  the  pine-apple,  and  boil  both  together  foi 


houseksepbb's  and  butleb's  assistant.         865 

ten  minutes.  Next,  strain  the  pine-apple  syrup  through 
a  napkin  into  a  basin ;  add  two  ounces  of  clarified  isin- 
glass, No.  843,  or  a  like  quantity  of  gelatine,  No.  839  ; 
set  a  mould  in  rough  ice,  pour  three  spoonfuls  of  the 
jelly  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould,  and  when  this  has 
become  set  firm,  place  thereon  a  neatly-arranged  row  of 
slices  of  the  pine-apple  ;  then  add  more  jelly,  and  when 
this  has  also  become  set  firm,  repeat  the  pine  apple  and 
the  jelly  until  the  mould  is  filled  up ;  and  when  set 
quite  firm  all  through,  and  about  to  be  sent  to  table,  dip 
it  in  hot  water,  and  turn  the  jelly  oul:  upon  its  dish. 


No.  845.-CURRANT  AND  RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Pick  the  stalks  from  a  quart  of  red  currants  and  a 
pottle  of  raspberries;  put  both  fruits  in  a  basin  with 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  and  half  a  pint 
of  spring-water ;  bruise  all  well  together,  and  then  pour 
the  whole  into  a  suspended  jelly-bag,  in  order  that 
the  juice  may  filter  through  perfectly  bright ;  to  attain 
this  result  it  is  necessary  that  the  juice  should  be  passed 
Several  times  through  the  bag ;  and,  when  all  the  juice 
|ias  passed,  add  thereto  either  two  ounces  of  clarified 
isinglass.  No.  843,  or  the  same  quantity  of  gelatine, 
^0.  839  ;  mix,  and  having  set  the  mould  in  ice,  when 
^uite  firm,  serve. 


No.  846.— STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

First,  bruise  half  a  pound  of  red  currants  in  a  basin 
'^ith  a  gill  of  spring- water ;  add  two  pottles  of  scarlet 
BtrawbeiTies ;  pour  a  pint  of  hot  syrup,  No.  842,  to  these ; 
Oover  the  basin  with  a  plate,  and  allow  the  infusion  to 
Btand  in  a  cool  place  for  a  couple  of  hours,  and  then 
Btrain  it  through  a  jelly-bag  into  a  basin;  add  two 
Ounces  of  isinglass,  or  gelatine,  and  finish  this  jelly  by 
garnishing  the  mould  with  large  strawberries  in  the 
Uianner  indicated  for  pine-apple  jelly. 


366  THX  cook's  OTJIDJ^  Alfb 

Note. — Strawberry  jelly,  as  well  as  cnnant  jelly,  aie 
used  as  an  excellent  foundation  for  makiTig  peach,  neo- 
Urine,  and  all  kinds  of  fruit  jellies.  Jellies  prepared 
<vith  fruit  juices  are  cooling,  as  well  as  refreshing,— 
and  will  prove  more  agreeable  to  ladies  in  summer 
than  when  prepared  with  wine  or  liqueurs. 

No.  847.-MAOEDOINE  OF  FBUITS. 

Any  kind  of  bright  jolly,  flavoured  with  maraschino, 
noyeau,  or  kirsoh,  serves  for  this  purpose ;  it  is  neces- 
sary, first,  to  set  a  mould  in  ice,  and  to  fill  it  with 
alternate  groups  of  different  kinds  of  fruit  and  layers  of 
jelly, — the  larger  fruit  used  for  Macedoines  sbotdd  be 
cut  in  pieces. 

No.  84&— FRUIT  JELUES  ICED. 

These  constitute  a  species  of  jellies  never  before  intro- 
duced to  general  notice  :  they  are  prepared  in  the  first 
instance  nearly  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  for 
making  all  the  preceding  fruit  jellies,  with  this  differ- 
ence, that  when  fruit  or  liqueur  jellies  are  intended 
to  be  partially  frozen,  two-thirds  only  of  the  nsnal 
quantity  of  isinglass  must  be  used ;  while  it  is  neces- 
sary to  add  one-third  more  of  sugar,  to  compensate  for 
the  action  of  refrigeration,  which  tends  to  lessen  the 
sweetness. 

As  an  example  for  the  preparation  of  frozen  jellies,— 
let  it  suffice  to  say,  that  the  mould  must  be  set  in  plen^ 
of  rough  ice  mixed  with  salt ;  and,  soon  as  the  jellj  i* 
poured  into  the  mould,  a  stewpan  lid  is  to  be  placed 
upon  it,  and  the  whole  is  to  be  covered  in  with  more 
ice  and  salt.  The  jelly  must  be  frozen  in  this  manner 
for  an  hour  only ;  in  order  that  when  turned  out  an^ 
sent  to  table,  the  interior  may  yet  remain  soft.  Cold, 
or  scarcely  tepid,  water,  must  be  used  to  dip  the  mooU 
in,  when  about  to  turn  these  jellies  out  on  tbnir  diib' 


B  AMD  BUTIiXB  B  ASBIBTAHT. 


L  849.— WHOLE  FETUTS  IN  JBLLX. 


;ht  jelly  only  ehowld  be  used  for  this  pur- 
V  plain  mould,  without  a  pipe  or  cylinder, 
iilated  to  show  the  fruits ;  these  should  he 
1  the  mould,  aa  when  the  jelly  is  turned  out 
th,  to  resemble  the  woodcut.  This  ia  to  be 
st,  by  placing  the  mould  in  ice  in  the  usual 
len,  after  having  prepared  a  layer  of  jelly 
m  of  the  mould — nearly  an  inch  thick,  and 
i  become  set  firm,  putting  in  the  fruit  in- 
urmouQt  the  group,  and  then,  as  the  jelly 
pport  this  in  its  desired  position  becomes 
ing  to  place  the  other  fruits  until  the  group 
1 :  fill  up  the  mould  with  jelly,  and  when 
a  it  out  on  its  dish. 

No.  850.-MARA.SCHINO  JELLY, 
lint  of  clarified  syrup,  add   two  ounces  of 
iglass,  ths  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  wineglaa* 


ttl* 


ooo 


d^ 


(SC^^ 


A^ 


tt&a 


tffO 


>^ 


»»«*" 


^U^*^ 


of  ^^ 


vo^ 


?»-    •««-  ''^ 


990 


♦YtVix^ 


863.- 


tD» 


Ate 


^^^.fl'T-i^^ 


^^^^^«-'°" 

^^^^-'-""...^c^^^ 


•<rv 


act 


on 


a&4 


4  tv'o 


caJV 
be* 


rut  to«\,.V^t%TeV^^\  XU^: 


.\jfit 


it  *":;\^^^^ 


AV>* 


H0USEKEBP£U'S  AND   BUTLSJEt's   ASSISTANT.  877 

No.  877.— TO  bottle'  ORLEANS  PLUMS. 

ese  are  treated  in  all  particulars  in  the  manner 
ted  for  preserving  greengages. 

No.  878.— TO  BOTTLE  DAIilSONS. 

ik  and  bottle  the  fniit,  fill  up  with  syrup,  No.  842, 
a  quarter  of  an  hour's  ebullition,  and  when  cold, 
7axed  over,  bin  up  the  bottles  in  a  cold  place. 

No.  879.— TO  BOTTLE  PINE-APPLEa 

dl  the  pine-apples  without  waste ;  cut  them  up  in 
;  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  again  cut  these  in 
«,  or  .thick  fingers,  and  put  them  into  dry,  clean 
3S ;  fill  up  with  syi-up.  No.  842 ;  cork  and  tie  down ; 
them  twenty  minutes'  ebullition ;  and  when  cold, 
over  the  nozzles  of  the  bottles,  and  bin  them  up  in 
ellar. 

No.  880.— TO  PRESERVE  ANGELICA  GREEN. 

t  the  tubes  or  stalks  of  angelica  into  six -inch 
hs ;  wash  them,  and  then  put  them  into  a  copper 
irving-pan  with  hot  syrup,  fso.  842 ;  cover  the  sur- 
mih  vine-leaves,  and  set  the  whole  to  stand  in  the 
r  till  the  next  day.  The  angelica  must  then  be 
led  on  a  sieve,  the  vine-leaves  thrown  away,  half  a 
of  water  added  to  the  syrup,  in  which,  after  it  has 
boiled,  skimmed,  and  strained  into  another  pan, 
the  copper-pan  has  been  scoured  clean,  both  the 
lica  and  the  boiling  syrup  are  to  be  replaced  and 
surface  covered  with  fresh  viife-leaves,  and  again 
to  stand  in  this  state  until  the  next  day :  this 
)ss  must  be  repeated  three  or  four  days  running ; 
le  end  of  which  time  the  angelica  will  be  suffi- 
ly  green  and  done  through,  and  should  be  put  in 
without  breaking  the  tubes.  After  the  synip  has 
boiled  and  skimmed,  fill  up  the  jars ;  and  when 
&re  become  cold,  cover  them  over  with  bladder 


878  THH  cook's  ouidb,  and 

and  paper,  aud  let  them  be  kept  in  a  very  cool  tem- 
perature. 

Note, — Green  peaches  and  apricots,  preserved  before 
the  stone  has  at  all  hardened,  green  grapes,  greengages, 
cucumbers,  &c.,  may  be  prepared  for  desserts,  by  pro- 
ceeding according  to  the  foregoing  directions. 

No.  881.— TO  GLACE  PINE-APPLK 

Peel  and  pick  out  the  specks  or  eyes  from  the  pine- 
sipple  ;  cut  it  up  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  tliick,  and 
simmer  these  in  syrup,  of  about  22  degrees  (the  strengtli 
of  the  syinp  is  to  be  ascertained  by  using  Adams'  syrup 
gauge,  see  Adams*  Illustrations)  for  about  five  minutes ; 
allow  the  pine-apple  to  remain  in  the  syrup  until  cold; 
it  must  then  be  drained  upon  a  wire  fruit-di-ainer  (see 
Adams'  Illustrations),  and  placed  in  the  screen  to  dry 
for  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  each  piece  of  pine- 
apple should  be  entirely  dipped  in  some  prepared  buga^ 
which  has  been  boiled  for  the  purpose  to  the  third  degree 
(and  which  must  be  slightly  worked  with  a  spoon  at  the 
side,  in  order  to  dull  it),  and  placed  upon  a  wire  fruit- 
drainer,  resting  on  a  baking-slieet ;  at  the  end  of  about 
ten  minutes,  if  the  sugar  has  been  properly  boiled,  the 
fruit  may  bo  detached  without  disturbing  the  sugar,  by 
pressing  with  the  fingeis  from  underneath. 

Note, — This  and  the  following  fruits  are  used  to  dress 
dessert-dishes  or  dress-plates. 

No.  882.— DRIED  PEARS  GLACES. 

There  is  a  small  pear  called  the  poplar,  which  serve:? 
this  purpose  admiraJ^ly.  The  pears  should  be  turned  (that 
is,  smoothly  peeled  as  though  they  had  been  turned  in 
tbeir  own  shape  with  a  lathe)  and  put  out  of  hand  in  22 
degrees'  syrup  containing  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  and  whin 
the  whole  are  turned,  simmer  them  over  a  slow  fire  until 
nearly  done,  and  then  put  them  away  in  a  covered  basin; 
after  boiling  up  the  syrup  and  pouring  it  again  to  the 
pears,  for  two  successive  days,  on  the  third  day  thcT 


fiOU8EK£KPBR'S  JLSD   BtJTLBK's   ABSISTANT.  371! 

may  be  drained,  and  placed  on  wire  trays  to  dry  in  tb.* 
screen. 

A  few  drops  of  cocbinoal  will  servo  to  impart  an 
agreeable  pinkness  to  tbe  fruit. 

Pears  of  diiferent  kinds,  and  of  larger  size,  may  also 
be  used  for  this  purpose,  in  which  case  they  must  be 
divided  in  halves  or  quarters. 

AVhen  the  pears  are  intended  to  be  glaces,  dry  them 
for  half  an  hour  only,  and  proceed  as  for  pine-apple. 

No.  883.— DRIED  APRICOTS. 

Split  and  peel  the  apricots,  and  as  you  do  so,  throw 
them  into  some  boiling  syrup  of  28  degrees'  stiength; 
Set  them  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  merely  to 
«^arm  them  through,  taking  great  care  to  avoid  their 
doming  to  a  boil.  The  apricots  are  then  to  be  put  care- 
fully into  a  basin,  and  the  syrup  is  to  be  boiled  up  three 
sticcessive  times,  and  poured  back  to  the  fruit;  after 
l^his  the  apricots  should  be  drained  one  by  one,  free 
horn,  syrup,  and  placed  in  rows  on  wire-drainers  resting 
>n  dishes,  and  put  in  the  screen  to  dry  ;  and  as  soon  as 
they  cease  to  stick  to  the  fingers  when  touched,  let 
them  be  put  away  in  boxes,  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper 
between  each  layer. 

Note. — If  the  apricots  are  intended  to  be  glaces,  pro- 
ceed according  to  directions  for  pine-apple,  &c. 

No.  884.— GREENGAGES  GLACES. 

The  greengages  must  not  be  over-ripe ;  leave  the 
stalks  on,  and  prick  each  plum  all  over  with  pins  ;  this 
done,  put  them  into  a  copper  preserving-pan,  containing 
boiling  syrup,  of  24  degrees'  stiength,  just  off  the  fire ; 
cover  the  suiiace  with  vine-leaves,  and  set  them  aside 
till  next  day,  when  the  syrup  is  to  be  boiled  up  sepa- 
rately from  the  gages,  poured  back  to  them,  and  again 
covered  with  fresh  vine -leaves  :  this  is  to  be  repented 
three  successive  days ;  after  this,  proceed  for  finishing 
these,  as  indicated  for  apricotSs 


880  TKS  OOOK*B  GUIPI,  AMO^ 


No.  885.— 0BAK6ES  DT  8TBUP 

Score  the  oranges  all  over  in  imitation  of  some  orna- 
mental design  representing  basket-work,  or  trellice- 
work,  &o. ;  and  simmer  them  very  gently  in  water,  nnti] 
nearly  done  through.  They  mnst  then  be  thrown  into 
cold  water,  to  soak  for  twenty-fonr  hours,  changing 
their  water  every  three  hours ;  at  the  end  of  this  time 
they  should  be  allowed  to  drain  on  a  sieve  for  several 
hours,  aud  then  being  placed  in  an  earthem  pan  with 
sufficient  syrup  of  28  oegrees'  strength  poured  gently 
upon  them.  For  three  successive  days,  let  the  syrup  be 
boiled  up  and  skimmed,  and  when  nearly  cold,  poured 
back  to  the  oranges ;  after  this  the  oranges  may  be  put 
away  in  jars. 

No.  886.— PBESEBYED  LEMONS. 

Select  well-shaped,  smoothednskinned,  pale-^^oloured 
lemons,  and  peel,  or  rather  turn  off  the  very  outer  zest 
or  rind  as  thin  as  paper ;  perforate  the  stalk-end  with  a 
tin  cutter,  and  empty  them  in  the  manner  described  for 
oranges  filled  with  jelly.  In  all  other  particulars,  pro- 
ceed as  for  oranges,  as  indicated  in  the  preceding 
number. 

iVpte. — Oranges  preserved  as  herein  indicated  for 
lemons,  are  less  liable  to  ferment,  and  consequently  this 
method  is  so  far  preferable. 

No.  887.— DEIED  CHERRIES. 

Kentish  cherries  are  fittest  for  this  purpose;  they 
should  be  ripe,  and  gathered  in  dry  weather ;  the  stones 
carefully  picked  out  without  bruising  the  fruit,  with 
8mall-pointed  wooden  skewers  or  pegs  allbut  six  inches 
long.  As  the  cherries  are  picked,  let  them  be  thrown 
into  a  white  pan  containing  syrup  of  28  degrees ;  and  as 
soon  as  this  is  finished,  pour  off  the  syrup  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan; boil  it  up;  and  when  the  first  heat  has  gone 
offy  pour  it  to  the  chern^a.    ^Y\i\^\ft<iWi!e&\K»&t\^  ijer- 


H0U8EK£EP£B*S  AND   BUTLBB'S   ASSISTANT  881 

i  for  three  successive  days ;  and  on  the  fourth  day 
lerries  are  to  be  thoroughly  drained  from  their 
,  strewn  apart  from  each  other  upon  clean  wire 
(see  Adams'  Illustrations),  and  put  in  the  soreen 
'.  Care  must  be  taken  to  see  that  they  are  turned 
in  order  that  they  may  receive  the  heat  equally, 
Iso  to  ascertain  that  it  is  never  intense,  for  that 
I  increase  their  colour  to  a  dark  shade,  which  is  to 
)ided  with  all  fruits. 

No.  888.— DRIED  BARBERRIES. 

berries,  for  this  purpose,  must  be  perfectly  red  and 
they  must  be  gathered  in  bunches,  washed, 
3d,  and  put  in  a  pan  with  28  degrees'  syrup,  par- 
cold,  and  the  syrup  boiled  up  and  poured  again  to 
for  three  successive  days ;  on  the  fourth  day,  pro- 
is  for  cherries. 

e, — Barberries  may  also  be  preserved  in  the  same 
js  currants. 

No.  889.— CHESTNUTS  GLAOBS. 

3ns  or  Spanish  chestnuts  are  best  for  this  and  all 
purposes.  A  slight  incision  should  be  made  across 
in  of  each,  and  the  chestnuts  put  on  at  in,  or  baking- 
in  the  oven  to  roast.  When  done,  and  freed  fi  om 
e  husks,  while  yet  quite  hot,  let  each  be  pressed 
ith  the  hand,  and  two  stuck  together  with  apricot 
)etween.  Next,  boil  12  ounces  of  sugar  perfectly 
I — to  the  snap,  and  with  a  silver  fork  to  hold  the 
red  chestnuts  upon,  dip  each  separately  in  the 
After  allowing  all  excess  to  drop  off  into  the 
rest  the  chestnuts  on  oiled  wire  trays,  and  when 
agar  has  become  set  firm  and  cold,  dish  up  these 
luts  upon  lace  papers,  in  a  compote  glass,  or  dish. 

No.  890.— MELON  GLACE. 

:  the  melon  in  slices,  or  ribs ;  remove  the  seeds 
le  peel,  and  pare  away  all  asnerities.     As  yon  turn 


382  THS  OOOlfS  OTODl^  Am 

the  quarters  of  melon  out  of  hand,  tmt  them  into  & 

white  earthen  pan  containing  28  de^reer  symp,  flaToured 

with  an  essence  of  vanilla  or  cinnamon;  the  symp 

should  be  hot,  but  not  boiling.    Boil  up  the  83niip  for 

three  suocesflive  days,  and,  on  the  fourth  day  proceed  as 

directed  for  apricots,  angelica,  &c. 

Note, — Slices  of  melon  preserved  in  syrup,  with  once 

boiling  the  syrup,  form  a  very  handsome  dessert  oom- 

pote. 

No.  SOL—GUCUMBEBS  GLAO£S. 

Procure  cucumbers  that  are  fresh  gathered  and  without 
seeds ;  split  and  divide  them  into  pieces  measuring  about 
three  inches ;  parboil  them  with  water  and  a  little  salt  in 
a  copper  pan  K)r  three  minutes,  and  then  put  the  pieces 
of  cucumber  into  a  copper  preserving-pan  with  28 
degrees'  B^rup,  flavoured  with  cinnamon,  or  lemon.  Boil 
up  the  synip  three  successive  days,  allowing  the 
cucumber  to  remain  in  the  pan  the  whole  time,  in  order 
to  green  it.  It  is  to  be  distinctly  .understood  that 
cucumbers  preserved  green  in  copper  vessels  contain  a 
certain  amount  of  acetate  of  copper,  which  is  in  itself  a 
corrosive  poison  ;  and  it  results  from  this  fSact,  that  all 
fruits  coloured  green  by  this  means  are  necessarily 
unfit  for  food  ;  but,  inasmuch  as  that  they  are  used  only 
as  component  parts  for  ornament,  and  decoration,  tho}* 
become  in  point  of  fact  perfectly  harmless. 


uuusekexpbb's  ahd  bctleb's  assistant.  383 


CHAPTER  XXVIL 
COMPOTES  OF  FRUITS  FOR  DESSERTS 


No.  892.— COMPOTE  OF  APPLES. 

{  kind  of  applo  will  answer  the  purpose — more  oi 

;   but   firm  sweet  apples,  such  as  the  russet,  the 

ien  pippin,  &c.,  are  best  suited  for  compotes,  from 

fact  that  they  bear  the  action  of  gentle  boiling 
bout  breaking.  Cut  the  apples  in  halves,  remove 
cores  with  an  iron  scoop,  pare,  or  turn  them  smooth, 

simmer  them  very  gently  in  thin  syrup  with  lemon- 
$6  until  nearly  done  through ;  the  pieces  of  apple 
old  then  bo  carefully  removed  into  a  basin, — and 
r  the  syrup  has  been  reduced  to  half  its  original 
ntity,  it  is  to  bo  poured  on  the  compote. 
Vhen  about  to  dish  up  the  compote,  place  one 
56  in  the  centre,  and  surround  it  with  other  pieces ; 
Drate  their  surface  with  light  designs  cut  out  from 
elica,  preserved  cucumber,  any  kind  of  red  jelly, 
.ow  pine,  chinois,  orange,  &c.,  and  just  before  sending 
•able,  pour  the  syrup  lightly  over.  It  is  also  cus- 
ary  to  cover  compotes  with  circular  sheets  or  nappes 
tpple  jelly,  cast  in  plates,  and  removed  by  the  aid  of 
fingers.     6ee  Apple  Jelly,  Ko  99B 


88d  THs  CKMKB  aun>i»  axd 

No.  g8d.-<K)MP0TE  OV  PEAB& 
When  ripe  mellow  ^earg  are  luaed  for  makipg  com- 
potes, follow  in  all  parfcicnlars  the  directions  for  making 
oompotfts  of  apples;  bnt  when  these  are  no  longer 
in  season,  and  the  hard-baking  pears  onlj  are  to  be 
obtained,  they  mnst  be  treated  as  follows : — split  the 
pears  in  halyes,  or  qnarters,  according  to  size ;.  remove 
the  cores,  pare  them  smoothly,  pnt  them  on  to  simmer 
Tenr  genlly  with  a  qni^rt  of  water,  ten  ounces  of  sugar, 
a  few  doves,  and  lemon-peel :  these  should  be  stowed 
in  a  tinned  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  pewter,  in  order 
to  turn  them  of  a  bright  crimson.  When  the  pears  are 
done,  drain  them  into  a  white  basin,  reduce  the  syrup, 
and  pour  it  on  them. 

No.  894.-COMPOTE  OF  0BAN6ES 

First,  pare  off  the  rind  of  three  oranges  very  thinly, 
and  reserve  it  on  a  plate ;  then  divide  them  into  halves 
with  a  very  sharp  Knife ;  remove  the  white  pilhy  cord 
which  runs  down  the  centre  of  the  fruit,  and  cut  off  the 
nnd  and  pith  in  strips  down  to  the  quick — thus  leaving 
the  halves  of  oranges  transparently  bare ;  dish  up  these 
rather  high  in  the  compote  glass,  throw  the  rind  kept  in 
reserve  into  four  ounces  of  sugar  boiled  with  a  gul  of 
water  for  five  minutes ;  strain  this  syrup  into  a  basin, 
add  a  small  glass  of  rum,  or  brandy,  pour  over  the 
'wmpote,  and  serve. 

No.  895.— COMPOTE  OF  PEACHES. 
Divide  the  peaches  in  halves ;  gently  simmer  them 
with  syrup  in  a  sugar-boiler  for  five  minutes;  drain 
them;  remove  their  skins;  dish  them  up  in  a  compotier; 
reduce  the  syrup  with  a  wineglassfol  of  red-currant 
juice,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

No.  896.— COMPOTE  OF  APBICOTS. 
Split  and  peel  the  apricots ;  put  them  into  a  sugar^ 
boiler  with  syrup,  and  mei^'v  «.m£cv«t  ^<»^  ioc  threa 


housekbspxb'b  and  butlxb'b  assistant.         885 

minutes  over  the  fire ;  then  drain  each  piece  separately 
widi  a  spoon  into  a  basin ;  boil  down  the  syrup  to  half 
its  quantity,  and  add  it  to  ihe  apricots. 

No.  897.— COMPOTE  OF  GREENGAGES. 

These  are  used  whole,  with  the  stalks  left  on : — for 
iheir  preparation,  see  the  first  part  of  Greengages  Glacis, 
No.  884. 

No.  898.— COMPOTE  OP  CHERRIES. 

Fine  large  cherries  of  light  colour,  and  perfectly  ripe, 
are  fittest  for  this  purpose  :  the  stalks  should  be  out  off 
half  way,  and  all  of  the  same  length;  the  cherries 
should  be  simmered  in  syrup  for  three  minutes,  and 
dished  with  their  stalks  upright :  a  spoonful  of  noyeau 
may  be  added  to  the  syrup. 

No.  899.— COMPOTE  OP  PINE-APPLE. 

For  this  compote,  follow  the  first  part  of  the  direc- 
tions for  the  preparation  of  pine-apple  glac^.  No.  881. 

No.  900.-COMPOTE  OF  STRAWBERRIES. 

Pick  the  strawberries  into  a  basin ;  pour  a  pint  of 
syrup  of  28  degrees  to  them ;  cover  them  over  with 
%  plate,  and  when  this  has  stood  for  an  hour,  pour  off 
be  syrup  into  a  sugar-boiler ;  add  a  wineglassful  of  red- 
arrant  juice ;  boil  down  to  half  the  quantity ;  strain 

irough  a  sieve  to  the  strawberries ;  add  a  small  glass  of 

araschino : — dish  up  in  a  pile  in  the  compotier,  and 

d  the  syrup. 

No.  901.— IMITATION  OF  GINGER. 

Nimpkin,  cucumber,  and  salsifis  may  be  used  advan- 

>oudy  for  the  purpose.     When  pumpkins  or  cncum- 

are  used,  they  should  be  peeled,  and  cut  into 

es  in  imitation  of  preserved  green  ginger,  and  very 

ly  simmered  for  a  few  minutes  only  in  syrup  pre- 

l  as  follows: — To  a  pound   of  loaf-sugar  add  a 

2  0 


886  THB  OOOK'b  GUIDl,   AMD 

tablespoonfol  of  Savory  and  Moore's  essence  of  ginger, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  half  a  pint  of  water;  boil 
three  minutes.  The  syrup  should  be  boiled  up  twice, 
adding  each  time  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  ginger. 

When  salsifis  are  used  for  imitating  ginger,  they 
should  be  cut  in  different  lengths,  peeled  roimd  the 
stalk  instead  of  being  scraped,  parboiled  in  water  with 
some  lemon-juice ;  when  half  done,  drain  and  put 
them  into  a  sugar-boiler  with  a  pint  of  syrup  of  28 
degrees,  two  spoonfuls  of  essence  of  Jamaica  ginger, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  simmer  yery  gently  for  eight 
minutes,  and  put  away  in  a  cool  place. 

No.  902.— COMPOTE  OP  CHESTNUTS. 

Eemove  the  outer  husk  from  fifty  chestnuts,  and  put 
them  to  simmer  gently  in  a  quart  of  milk  and  water, 
until  done  to  the  degree  of  a  floury  potato ;  they  must 
then  be  drained  on  a  sieve,  and  bruised  in  a  sugar- 
boiler  containing  12  ounces  of  sugar  boiled  till  it  pearls 
on  the  surface ;  flavour  with  pounded  vanilla,  and  after 
working  all  together  vigorously,  rub  through  a  coarse 
wire  sieve  on  to  a  dish. 

To  dish  up  this  compote,  first, — pile  up  half  a  pint  of 
firmly  whipped  cream  in  the  centre  of  the  compotier, 
with  the  fingers ;  gently  strew  the  vermicellied  chest- 
nuts upon  this  in  a  conical  form ;  garnish  round  the  base 
with  a  compote  of  oranges  with  maraschino,  and  serve 
one  of  the  most  delicious  things  ever  imagined. 


7I0178E1UEBPSB'8   AND   BUTLXB'S   ASSISTANT.  387 


CHAPTER  XXVIIl. 
DESSEET  CAKES. 


No:  903.— ICED  SPONGES. 

Put  four  ounces  of  sifted  sugar  into  a  large  basin  with 

eight  yolks  of  eggs,  three  ounces  of  flour,  and  a  few 

drops  of  essence  of  orange  or  lemon ;  work  all  together 

v^ronaly  with  a  spattle  (bee  Adams'  Illustrations)  for 

ten  minutes,  and  then  add  six  whites  whipped  nrm ; 

mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  this  batter  (moderate  heat)  in 

a  paper-case  of  such  dimensions  as  will  admit  of  the  cake 

being  an  inch  thick.    When  the  sponge  is  withdrawn 

fiom  the  oven  and  has  become  cold,  remove  the  paper, 

out  the  cake  into  squares,  fingers,  rounds,  lozenges,  or 

any  other  form^   place  these  on  a  baking-sheet,  and 

^r  spreading  some  preserve  on  their  surface,  ice  them 

>ver  with  royal  icing,  No.  746 ;  dry  them  in  the  open 

creen,  and  use  them  for  dessert. 

No.  904.— DRY  SAVOYS. 

Whip  firm  1 5  whites  of  eggs,  and  incorporate  there- 

th,  very  lightly,  one   pound  of  sifted  sugar,  half  a 

md  of  flour,  and  a  few  drops  of  flavouring ;  bake  in  a 

er-case  two  inches  deep ;  and  when  done,  and  cold, 

a  sharp  knife  to  cut  the  biscuit  in  thin  slices ;  place 

9  upon  paper  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  dry  them  in  a 

^rate  heat,  of  a  light  colour. 

L»  c  2 


888  THE  cook's  guide,  and 

No.  905. -CRACKLINGS. 

Whip  ten  whites  of  eggs  quite  firm,  and  inoo 
therewith  eight  ounces  of  dried  flour,  twelve  on 
sifted  sugar,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  few  d 
essence  of  yanilla ;  mix  lightly,  and  lay  the  bisci 
on  bands  of  paper  in  small  oval  shapes  with  a 
bag  (see  Adams'  Illustrations) ;  dredge  them  ovi 
sugar,  and  when  melted,  bake  them  of  a  light  cc 
moderate  heat;  when  they  are  done,  turn  the 
upside  down,  pass  a  wet  brush  over  the  paper,  c 
cakes  will  easily  drop  off:  they  must  then  be  ^ 
a  wire  sieve  in  the  screen. 

No.  906.— DUTCH  DEOPS. 

Six  yolks  of  eggs,  worked  in  a  basin  with 
ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  six  ounces  of  dried  fioi 
ounces  of  dissolved  butter,  one  ounce  of  pounded 
almonds,  the  rind  of  two  lemons  rubbed  on  sugar, 
coriandernseeds  bruised,  and  a  teaspoonfiil  of  < 
or  powdered  cinnamon;  work  all  vigorously  tc 
and  then  mix  in  lightly  twelve  whites  of  eggs  "w 
quite  firm.  Lay  the  drops  out  the  size  of  a  wal 
clean  baking-sheets  previously  rubbed  over  witl 
wax;  strew  white  sugar  broken  in  very  sma 
mixed  with  chopped  pistachios  over  the  droj 
bake  them  in  moderate  heat,  of  a  light  colour 
done,  the  drops  may  be  easily  detached  from  th( 
by  passing  a  knife  under  them. 

No.  907.— PATIENCK 

Twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  ten  ounces  of  flour,  sii 
and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  cedrati ;  mix  then 
and  whisk  the  whole  in  a  copper  egg  bowl  (see  u 
Illustrations)  over  a  smothered  charcoal  fire,  ui 
batter  presents  a  white  smooth  creamy  apnea 
then  incorporate  thoroughly  and  lightly  six 
whipped  quite  firm;  lay  the  small  drops  out  ' 


HOUSEKEXPXB*S  AND   BUTLSB's  ASSISTAin?.  889 

l>i80tiit-forcer  (see  Adams'  Illustrations),  on  waxed  ba- 
king-sheets, and  dry  them,  of  a  very  light  colour,  in  a 
sladzoven. 

No.  908.— CINNAMON  BISCUITS. 

Mix  a  pound  of  sugar  with  twelve  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  cinnamon ;  work  the  batter 
vigorously  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  then  mix  in  the  twelve  whites  whipped  firm, 
four  ounces  of  potato  flour,  and  four  ounces  of  best 
flour ;  fill  small  paper-oases  with  this,  sugar  them  over, 
and  when  the  sugar  is  melted,  bake  them  in  an  oven  of 
moderate  heat,  of  a  light  colour. 

No.  909.— MAGENTAS. 

Put  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  into  a  large  basin  with 
twelve  yolks  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  ground  bitter- 
almonds,  and  one  ounce  of  dried  orange  flowers,  bruised  : 
work  all  together  vigorously  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  mix  in  six  ounces  of  dis- 
solved butter,  eight  whipped  whites  of  eggs,  and  twelve 
ounces  of  flour ;  fill  small  tin  pans  previously  buttered, 
sngared  over  with  fine  sugar,  and  some  shred  almonds 
sprinkled  on  the  bottom ;  strew  shred  almonds  on  their 
surface;  dredge  them  over  with  sugar,  and  bake   in 
moderate  heat :   when  these  biscuits  are  turned  out  ot 
their  moulds,  serve  either  side  uppermost. 

No.  910.-LUCKNOWS. 

Boil  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  degree  beyond  its  form 
ing  large  pearls  or  bubbles  on  the  surface,  and  when 
the  first  heat  has  subsided,  whip  it  into  five  whipped 
whites  of  eggs ;  flavour  with  zest  of  orange-peel ;  fill  a 
Waouit-forcer,  and  lay  out  the  biscuits  in  small  oval 
fcrms  upon  buttered  and  floured  baking-sheets ;  dredge 
^em  over  with  sugar  and  chopped  pistachios,  and  bake 
*^  with  moderate  heat. 


S90  THE  €K>OK*8   OUIDE,   AND 


No.  911.— TUBIN  OASES. 

Pat  ten  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  large  basin  "with  fuUT 
ounces  of  ground  almonds  (previonsly  ponnded  with  tbo 
white  of  an  egg  and  a  spoonful  of  orange-flower  water) 
and  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar ;  work  all  together  Tigoroiuly 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  add 
the  ten  whipped  whites,  three  ounces  of  flour,  and  the 
same  quantity  of  dried  and  sifted  potato  flour;  mis 
lightly,  and  bake  the  biscuits  in  small  buttered  and 
sugared  tartlet-pans — moderate  heat. 

>Vhen  the  biscuits  are  baked  and  cold,  mask  them 
over  with  white  icing  flavoured  with  rum. 

No.  912.-CREAM  BISCUITS. 

Work  six  yolks  of  eggs  with  six  ounces  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  a  tablespoon^  of  vanilla  sugar  for  twenty 
minutes;  then  add  the  six  whites  whipped  firm,  and 
three  ounces  of  flour ;  and  lastly,  mix  in,  very  lightly,  a 
gill  and  a  half  of  double  cream  whipped;  fill  smidl 
paper-cases  with  this;  sugar  them  over,  and  bake  in 
very  moderate  heat. 

No.  913.-TEANSPAEENTa 

Almost  any  kind  of  cake  cut  up,  or  previously  nuu 
in  any  fancy  shapes,  may  be  used  for  this  purpose, 
all  cases  the  cakes  intended  to  be  glac^  should 
slightly  hollowed  out  on  the  surface  for  the  purpo« 
retaining  the  preserve  with  which  they  are  to  be  cove 
previously  to  their  being  glaces.     These  very  delic' 
and    beautiful    dessert-cs^es   produce    almc^  infi 
varieties,   and  at  small    cost,   inasmuch  as  the  f 
batter  in  different  forms, — or  even  larger  cakes,  OJ 
remains  of  these  cut  up,  as  I  have  stated  aho 
answer  just  as  well.   The  principal  part  of  the  opei 
consists  in  the  preparation  of  the  sugar  for  w^ 


roubekespbb's  and  butleb's  assistant.         891 

termed  transparent  icing;  and  which  is  accomplished 
as  follows :  viz., — put  half  a  pound  of' the  best  loaf-sugai 
into  a  copper  sugar-boiler  -with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and 
after  skimming  off  the  surface  as  it  begins  to  boil,  allow 
it  to  boil  down  to  forty  degrees — or  what  is  termed  to 
the  blow  point, — that  is,  when  a  perforated  spoon  has 
been  lightly  dipped  in  the  sugar  by  blowing  through 
the  holes, — ^the  sugar  distends  in  comparatively  large 
babbles  or  globes ;  it  must  then  be  removed  from  the 
fire  and  the  bottom  of  the  pan  placed  in  a  basin  con- 
tainingxoold  water.     As  soon  as  the  sugar  begins  to 
set — ^to  thicken,  work  it  from  the  liquid  centre  against 
the  Bide  of  the  sugar-boiler  in  order  to  give  it  a  slightly 
dimmed  or  opalized  appearance,  adding  gradually,  by 
teaspoonfuls,  half  a  gill  of  noyeau,  or  any  other  liqueur, 
and  also  a  little  clarified  syrup ;  and  use  this  to  mask 
over  the  upper  part  of  the  cakes  previously  covered 
with  any  of  the  following  preserves : — apricot,  damson, 
onrrant  jelly,  &c.    As  they  are  turned  out  of  hand, 
put  them  in  rows  upon  a  wire-drainer  on  a  dish,  after- 
wards to  be  placed  m  the  open  screen  to  dry  for  five 
minutes. 

No.  914.— LOVE'S  WELLS. 

Prepare  half  a  pound  of  Genoese  or  pound-cake, 
which  must  be  baked  about  an  inch  thick.  When  cold, 
it  is  to  be  cut  out  with  round,  oval,  crescent,  or  leaf- 
shaped  cutters,  and  these  must  be  again  stamped  on  the 
^pper  surface  with  a  smaller  cutter,  so  as  to  make  an 
incision  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep ;  this  inner 
piece  must  be  removed  and  the  cake  hollowed  out,  and 
nearly  filled  with  whipped  cream  flavoured  with  vanilla, 
orange,  &o,,  and  the  top  covered  in  by  spreading  some 
^d  of  preserve  lightly  over  the  cream,  by  means  of  a 
pomet,  or  biscuit-forcer ;  this  completed,  let  the  cakes  be 
iced  over  entirely — with  any  kind  of  transparent  icing 
^dicated  in  the  preceding  case,  or,  merely  with  ordi- 
^*^  icing  made  with  white  of  egg,  and  fine  icing  sugar. 


392  THB  oooKB  oumi,  Ain> 

No.  915.— ICED  PRXJITS  FOB  COMPOTEa 

Any  fruits — such  as  small  bunches  of  grapes,  red, 
white,  or  black  currants,  gooseberries,  cherries,  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  or  mulberries,  have  a  veiy  pretty 
eifect  when  iced  over  with  sifted  sugar,  accordmg  to 
the  following  directions  :  viz., — ^remember  that  for  this 
purpose  none  but  perfect  fruit  should  be  selected; 
next,  whip  the  white  of  an  egg  and  a  wineglass  of  water 
on  a  plate  with  the  blade  of  a  clean  knife,  until  both 
are  well  frothed  and  mixed ;  then  add  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  icing  sugar ;  and  when  all  is  thoroughly  incorporated, 
strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  another  plate.  The  fruit 
must  be  dipped  separately  in  this  egg-water,  well  shaken 
to  remove  any  excess  of  moisture,  and  carefully  rolled 
in  hot  sifted  white  sugar,  and  then  placed  in  rows  on  a 
wire  sieve  to  dry  in  the  open  screen.  These  fruits 
dished  up  on  green  leaves  in  a  compotier,  or  arranged 
in  varieties  on  dress  plates,  present  a  cool,  charming 
appearance  on  the  de&»erttable. 


\ 


BOUSSKESFSU'S   AND   BUTLBB'B  ASSISTANT.  898 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 
DIFFERENT  KINDS  OF  ICES. 


No.  916.— ORANGE-WATER  ICE. 

juice  of  twelve  oranges  and  two  lemons,  the  rind 
ur  oranges  rubbed  on  sugar  and  scraped  off,  to  be 
ed  in  a  little  warm  syrup,  a  pint  of  syrup  28 
ses'  strength ;  the  whole,  when  mixed  in  a  basin, 
;  prove  24  degrees  by  the  syrup  gauge  (see  Adams' 
ligations):  put  the  freezing  pot  in  ite  pail  well 
)unded  with  rough  ice  mixed  with  salt  and  a  little 
etre ;  work  the  freezer  round  with  the  hand  for  ten 
ites,  and  then  detach  the  set  ice  from  the  sides  of 
freezer  with  the  ice  spattle,  and  continue  freezing 
working  the  ice  with  the  spattle  to  give  smoothness 
body  to  the  ice  until  it  forms  a  stiff,  smooth  com- 
body ;  it  may  then  be  put  into  the  mould  destined 
jceive  it,  and  imbedded  in  ice  mixed  with  salt  and 
etre  until  it  is  time  to  dish  it  up ;  to  effect  this  in 
isfactory  manner,  first  wipe  off  all  salt,  &c.,  with  a 
L,  dip  the  mould  in  cold  water  for  a  minute  or  so, 

it  dry,  lift  off  the  ends  of  the  mould,  and  then  with 
lugers  push  the  ice  out  upon  the  lace  paper  on  its 

or  ice-pail,  ready  to  receive  it. 

No.  917.— LEMON-WATER  ICE. 

le  juice  of  eight  lemons,  the  rubbed  rind  of  two,  a 
of  syrup,  and  a  gill  of  water;  the  ice,  when  mixed, 


894  THE  oook'b  ouidb,  ajxd 

to  give  24  degrees  with  the  syrup  gauge;  freeze  and 
mould,  as  in  the  preceding  case. 

No.  918.— PINE-APPLE-WATEB  ICE. 

One  pound  of  pine-apple,  peeled  and  boiled  in  a  pint 
of  syrup,  and  afterwards  pulped  by  pounding  in  a 
mortar,  and  rubbing  the  fruit  through  a  sieve ;  add  the 
pulp  to  the  syrup  and  a  little  water  so  as  to  give  24 
degrees  with  the  syrup-gauge ;  set  np  and  freeze  in  the 
usual  way. 

No.  919.— POlklME-GEENADE-WATER  ICE. 

Break  carefully  four  ripe  grenades,  or,  as  they  are 
generally  called,  pomegranates ;  put  the  pips  of  the  fruit 
in  a  plate,  and  when  the  whole  is  freed  from  their  husks, 
bruise  them  with  a  wooden  spoon  in  small  quantities  at 
a  time,   on  a  hair  sieve  to  extract  their  juice,  which 
must  run  through  the  sieve  into  a  basin ;  to  a  pint  of 
the  juice,  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  pint  of  veiy 
strong  syrup,  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  the 
nibbed  rind  of  an  orange,  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal ; 
mix,  and  freeze  as  usual. 

No.  920.-MELON-WATER  ICE. 

The  pure  fruit  from  a  ripe  melon,  bruised  into  a  pulp 
by  rubbing  it  through  a  clean  coarse  hair  sieve,  mixea 
in  a  basin  with  a  pint  of  syrup,  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
and  a  few  drops  of  orange-flower  water ;  freeze,  and  set 
up  the  ice,  as  directed  in  No.  916. 

No.  921.— EOMAN  GRANTTO. 

Mix  a  pint  of  strong  bright  cofiee  with  a  pint  of  syrnp 
of  18  degrees;  put  this  into  glass  water-decanteri 'wll 
imbedded  in  ice  mixed  with  salt  and  saltpetre.  The 
bottles  must  be  corked,  and  worked  round  with  the 
hand ;  and,  as  the  coffee  becomes  frozen  on  the  sides  w 
*^lie  bottles,  the  granito  must  be  detached  with  a  thifi 


H01T8EKS£PSB'8   AND   BUTLEB's   A8SISTAKT.  895 

wooden  gpattle  introduced  down  the  necks  of  the 
bottles.  This  agreeable  kind  of  liquid  ice,  or  sorbet,  is 
served  in  coffee  cups  or  glasses,  at  evening  parties. 

If  preferred,  the  granito  may  be  frozen  in  an  ordinary 
freezing-pot  in  the  usual  way,  and  served  up  ready  to  be 
poured  out  in  glass  jugs. 

No.  922.— PEACH-WATER  ICE. 

Six  npe  peaches  cut  in  quarters,  and  boiled  in  a 
sugar-boiler  with  half  a  pint  of  syrup  for  ten  minutes, 
and  rubbed  through  a  very  clean  hair  sieve  into  a  basin. 
Add  half  a  pint  of  currant  juice,  a  few  drops  of  essence 
of  bitter-almonds,  and  a  pint  of  syrup ;  freeze,  and  set 
up  in  the  usual  way.  When  currants  are  not  procurable, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons  may  be  used  instead,  in  which 
case  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  must  be  added  to  give  the 
necessary  pink  tinge. 

No.  923— APRICOT-WATEE  ICE. 

One  pound  of  ripe  apricots  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of 
syrup  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  rubbed  through  a  hair 
sieve  into  a  basin.  Add  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  bitter- 
almonds,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  not  quite  a  pint  of 
syrup;  freeze,  and  set  up. 

^ote» — ^Bear  in  mind  that  while  ices  are  being  frozen, 
"ley  must  be  frequently  well  worked  with  the  spattle, 
^  render  them  smooth  and  give  them  body. 

No.  924.— STRAWBERRY-WATER  ICE. 
Pick  a  pound  of  strawberries,  and  bruise  them  with 
fonr  ounces  of  red  currants,  and  a  gill  of  syrup  in  a 
^iii  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  rub  this  through  a 
*^  sieve  into  a  basin ;  add  a  pint  of  syrup,  freeze,  and 
setup. 

Ko.  925.— CURRANT  AND  RASPBERRY  WATER  ICE. 

rut  one  pound  of  red  currants,  and  a  pottle  of  rasp- 
berries in  a  sugar-boiler,  with  a  gill  of  water  and  foui 


896  THB  COOK'S   QUIDS,  AHD 

ounces  of  sifted  sugar ;  bruise  all  together,  and  stir  o 
the  fire  until  it  boils,  and  then  rub  this  through  a  si 
into  a  basin  ;  add  a  pint  of  syrup,  set  up  in  the  freezi 
pot,  and  finish  the  ice  in  the  usual  way. 

No,  926.— CHERBY-WATEB  ICE. 

Pick  a  pound  and  a  half  of  red  cherries,  and  pot 
them  in  a  mortar  to  crack  their  kernels,  and  put  th 
into  a  sugar-boiler  with  four  ounces  of  sugar ;  boil 
four  minutes,  and  rub  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin ;  i 
a  pint  of  syrup,  freeze,  and  mould  the  ice. 

No.  927.— ICED  PUNCH  GEANITO. 

Half  a  pint  of  syrup,  half  a  pint  of  pino-apple  syri 
the  rubbed  peel  of  an  orange,  tiie  juice  of  three  lemo 
a  teacupful  of  strong  green  tea,  a  gill  of  brandy,  a  g 
of  rum,  a  pint  of  champagne,  and  a  gill  of  maraschii 
Mix  and  freeze  as  in  No.  916,  and  serve  this  punch 
glass  jugs,  to  be  handed  round  in  wineglasses. 

No.  928.— ICED  ROMAN  PUNCH. 

A  pint  of  syrup,  a  pint  of  pine-apple  syrup,  half 
pint  of  green  tea,  the  rind  of  two  oranges  rubbed  ( 
sugar  and  scraped  off,  a  teaspoonfal  of  essence  of  cii 
namon,  and  a  bottle  of  champagne.  Freeze  the  punch 
the  same  manner  as  you  would  any  other  ice,  takii 
care  to  work  it  well  with  the  spattle  while  it  is  beii 
frozen ;  and  when  quite  fiim,  add  by  degrees,  and 
small  quantities  at  a  time,  three  whites  of  eggs  of  Italic 
meringue-paste ;  working  the  whole  vigorously  with  tl 
spattle;  and,  ten  minutes  before  serving  the  punc 
add  by  degrees  half  a  pint  of  old  white  Jamaica  mi 
The  Roman  punch  is  to  be  served  in  high  glasses  betw« 
the  first  and  second  courses ;  it  should  be  of  a  thic 
creamy  liquid ;  but  if  it  happen  to  be  too  thick  to  adm 
of  its  being  poured  into  the  glasses,  it  may  be  slightl 
thinned  by  the  addition  of  a  little  more  champagne. 


HOUSES  BEPEB  B   AUD  BUTLZB  B  ABBIBTAKT. 


CHAPTER  yXX, 


No.  929.— CHICKENS  A  LA  BELLE-VHE. 
Truss  and  boil  off  two  apring-chickeiiB,  and  when  cold, 
mask  them  all  over  with  whit«  Bechamel  sauce  pro- 
vioMsly  mixed  on  the  ice,  with  a.  third  proportion  of 
stiff  aspic  jelly;  place  them  on  their  dish;  ornament 
tbeir  m«aBls  with  designs  stamped  out  with  tin  cutters 
from  diin  alicee  of  black  truffle,  or  red  tongue,  or  with 
spread  leaves  of  tarragon  and  chervil;  garaiEh  round 
the  base  with  some  chopped  aspic  jelly,  and  a  border 
of  bold  croutons  of  the  same. 

Nolt. — Small  turkeys,  large  fowls,  pheasants,  or  par- 
tridges may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner,  for  ball 
nippers,  Sec. 

No.  fian  —HAM  WITH  ASHO  JELLY. 


398  THE  G00K*8  CRTIDB,   AHD 

Prepare  the  ham  as  directed  in  No.  450,  and  whei 
quite  cold,  and  trimmed  as  represented  in  the  woodcut 
let  it  be  garnished  with  aspic  jelly. 

No.  931.— TONGUE  WITH  ASPIC  JELLY. 

Prepare  a  tongue  as  directed  in  No.  394,  and  when 
quite  cold  and  glazed,  place  it  on  its  dish,  and  ornament 
it  with  aspic  jelly. 

No.  932.— GALANTINE  OP  POULABDE. 

Bone  a  poularde,  or  turkey,  or  a  large  fowl ;  draw  the 
skin  of  the  legs  and  wings  inside ;  spread  out  the  boned 
fowl  flat  upon  the  table ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  a  little  aromatic  spices  ;  spread  a  layer  of  sausage- 
meat  an  inch  thick  upon  this ;  add  some  long  squares  of 
red  tongue  or  ham,  and  some  small  black  truffles,  and  a 
few  pistachio-kernels;    repeat  the    sausage-meat,  the 
seasoning,  and  the  tongue,  &q.  ;  and  having  sufficiently 
filled  up  the  galantine,  sew  it  up  with  twine,  roll  it  in 
a  buttered  napkin,  feisten  the  ends  with  string,  and  set 
it  to  braize  in  some  well-seasoned  veal  and  calfs  feet 
stock  for  about   an   hour  and  half.     When  done,  the 
galantine  must  be  allowed  to  become  partially  cold  in 
its  own  stock,  in  order  that  it  may  thus  preserve  it* 
mellowness  and  savour.     The  galantine  must  be  put  in 
press  between  dishes,  with  a  fourteen-pound  weight  on 
the  top,  and  when  quite  cold,  removed  from  the  napkin ; 
the  string  must  be  taken  out,  and  the  galantine  having 
been  glazed  and  placed  on  its  dish,  ornament  it  with 
aspic  jelly. 

No.  933.— MAYONAISE  OP  FOWL. 

Cut  up  a  cold  fowl  into  small  joints ;  steep  them  in  » 
basin  with  a  little  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt ;  dmn 
them  on  a  cloth ;  dish  them  up  in  a  pyramidal  form. 
on  a  thick  bed  of  seasoned  shred-lettuces;  mask  them 
all  over  smoothly  with  some  white  mayonaise  sance. 
No.  37  ;  garnish  round  the  base  with  a  border  of  neatlv- 
cut  quarters  of  haril-boiled  eggs,  the  hearts  of  lettnoe*, 


housskbkpsb's  and  butlsb's  assistant.         899 

,  fillets  of  anchovies,  or  cr6utons  of  aspic  jelly ; 
lent  the  top  with  a  few  sprigs  of  tarragon  or 
il,  or  with  aspic  jelly. 

No.  934.— MAYONAISE  OF  LOBSTER 

is  is  prepared  nearly  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
)ing,  using  the  meat  of  the  lobster  cnt  into  coUops 
hie  purpose ;  colonr  the  Tartare  sance,  No.  38, 
lobster  spawn  or  coral,  pounded  and  mixed  with 
of  the  sance,  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve  to  smooth 
r  when  the  lobster-salad  has  been  sauced  over 
either  mayonaise  or  Tartare  sauce,  some  pow- 
and  sifted  lobster  coral  may  be  sprinkled  over  the 
;e ;  garnish  as  indicated  for  mayonaise  of  fowl. 

!Jo.  935.— MAYONAISE  OF  FILLETS  OF  SOLES. 

uner  the  fillets  of  two  soles  in  a  sautapan  with  a 

butter,  lemon-juice,  pepper  and  salt;    and  when 

put  them  in  press  between  two  dishes;    when 

divide   each   fillet  into   collops  two  and  a  half 

s  long ;  trim  them  neatly ;  season  them  with  oil, 

ar,  pepper  and  salt ;  and  dish  them  in  pyramidal 

on  a  bed  of  shred  lettuce  or  any  other  salad ;  mask 

mayonaise   sauce,   No.  37,    coloured   with   some 

ch  greening,  or  merely  with  plenty  of  very  finely- 

►ed  taiTagon  and  chervil;  garnish  round  the  base 

t  salad  with  a  border  of  hard  eggs,  &c.,  and  serve. 

No.  936.— MAYONAISE  OF  SALMON. 

il  a  pound  of  salmon,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  up  into 
J  about  two  inches  long,  by  one  inch  wide,  and 
in  inch  thick ;  and  use  them  to  prepare  and  finish 
;ronaise  in  the  manner  indicated  in  the  foregoing 

e, — ^The  remains  of  salmon,  turbot,  brill,  or  soles, 
be  used,  as  a  matter  of  economy,  for  any  of  the 
)ing  purposes. 


400  THE  cook's  OUIDl.  AHD 


No.  937.— OBOUSE  SALAD. 

Boast  off  a  grouse,  and  with  tHe  trimmings  prepare 
a  salmis  sauce  as  directed  in  No.  68 ;  reduce  this  stiffly ; 
and  having  mixed  in  a  third  proportion  of  ai^io  jelly, 
use  it  to  mask  the  joints  of  grouse  with  a  rather  thick 
coating  of  the  sauce,  and  set  tiiem  on  a  dish  upon  rough 
ice  to  become  set  firm.  Place  a  thick  bed  of  seasoned 
shred  lettuce  on  the  centre  of  the  dish ;  and  upon  this 
foundation  build  up  the  joints  of  grouse;  garnish  round 
the  base  with  a  border  of  curled  celery,  and  an  outer 
border  of  quarters  of  hard  eggs ;  pour  some  white  may- 
onaise  sauce,  No.  37,  round,  between  the  bottom  part 
of  the  joints  of  ^ouse  and  the  celery ;  place  an  orna- 
ment of  aspic  jelly  on  the  top,  and  serve. 

No.  938.— FRICASSBE  CHAUDFBOID. 

Boil  a  chicken  in  some  white  veal  stock,  and  use  the 
stock  to  make  some  highly-seasoned  and  stiffly-reduced 
Allemande  sauce.  No.  17;  cut  up  the  chicken  into 
small  neat  joints  ;  mask  them  all  over  with  the  sauce, 
and  place  them  on  a  dish  to  become  cold,  and  set  firm ; 
dish  them  up  in  a  pyramidal  pile ;  garnish  and  orna- 
ment with  aspic  jelly. 

No.  939.— SALmS  CHAUDFROID  OF  PARTEIDGES. 

Cut  up  two  roast  partridges  into  small  joints,  and  use 
their  trimmings  to  prepare  a  stiffly-reduced  salmis 
sauce,  No.  68 ;  add  thereto  one-third  proportion  of  aspic 
jelly ;  mix  together,  and  use  the  sauce  to  mask  the  joints 
of  partridges,  which,  after  the  sauce  has  become  set  firm 
upon  them,  are  to  be  dished  up  in  a  pyramidal  form, 
garnished  with  aspic  jelly  and  a  few  truffles,  or  pre- 
pared white  cocks'  combs. 

Note, — This  dish  may  be  prepared  also  with  phea- 
sants, plovers,  woodcocks,  quails,  &c.,  for  ball-suppers. 


nOTJSSESXPEB  8  AND   BOTLBB^S  ASSISTANT.  401 

No.  940.— POTTED  FOWL  AND  HAM. 

Koast  off  a  chicken,  and  while  hot,  remove  all  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  and  with  these  make  a  little 
broth,  well  seasoned  with  herbs  and  spice,  and  boil  it 
down  to  a  glaze ;  chop  the  meat  wifii  six  ounces  of 
cooked  ham,  and  pound  both  together  in  a  mortar  into 
a  Bmooth  pulp ;  add  the  glaze,  and  four  ounces  of  clari- 
fied butter;  pound  well  together,  and  put  closely  in 
small  flat  earthen  pie-pots ;  cover  these  in  with  claiified 
butter,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place  for  use. 

No.  941.— POTTED  TONGUE. 

Any  tongue  left  'from  a  previous  day's  dinner  should 
be  divested  of  all  hard  parts,  and  pounded  with  a  fourth 
propoiiion  of  clarified  butter,  seasoned  with  cayenne, 
put  into  pots,  and  covered  in  with  clarified  butter. 

No.  942.~POTTED  PHEASANT. 

Boast  off  a  pheasant,  remove  all  the  meat  from  the 
hopes,  and  put  them  into  a  small  stewpan  with  a  glass 
of  sherry,  ditto  of  mushroom-catsup,  four  shalots,  a  bay- 
leaf,  and  thyme,  a  bit  of  ham,  and  a  quart  of  good 
gravy;  boil  this  down  to  a  glaze,  and  strain  it  into  a 
basin.  First  chop,  and  then  pound  all  the  meat  in  a 
mortar  into  a  smooth  pulp ;  add  the  glaze,  six  ounces  of 
clarified  butter,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper;  pound  all 
together,  and  fill  small  pots  with  this ;  cover  in  with 
clarified  butter. 

No.  943.— POTTED  HARE. 

Cut  np  the  hare  into  joints  or  pieces,  and  set  them 
aside  on  a  plate ;  next,  cut  up  two  pounds  of  streaky  bacon 
into  square  pieces  the  size  of  walnuts,  and  fi  y  these  in  a 
stewpan ;  then  add  the  pieces  of  hare,  and  fry  those  also 
with  the  bacon ;  add  a  handful  of  mushrooms,  two  bay- 
leaves,  some  thyme,  basil  and  winter  savory,  two  cloves 
of  garlic,  twenty  cloves,  three  blades  of  mace,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  black  peppercorns,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  pint 

2  D 


402  THB  0OOK*8   GUIDB,   AVD 

of  madeira,  and  a  pinck  of  cayenne ;  pnt  the  lid  on,  and 
ftet  all  this  to  simmer  very  gently  in  the  oven  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  The  hare  rnnst  then  be  strained  from 
its  liquor;  all  the  meat  is  to  be  removed  from  the 
bones,  chopped,  ponnded;  all  the  grease  and  bacon 
added  and  pounded  again  into  a  smooth  pnlp,  and  then 
rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve  on  to  a  dish,  and  after- 
wards put  into  a  large  kitchen-pan,  to  be  mixed  up  with 
the  liquor  from  the  hare.  If  the  liquor  or  stock  from  the 
hare  measures  more  than  a  pint,  it  should  be  boiled  down 
to  that  quantity,  and  about  four  ounces  of  good  glaze 
should  be  added.  Fill  some  ordinary  preserving  pie- 
pans  with  the  preparation,  cover  them  over  with  com- 
mon flour-and-water  paste,  set  the  pans  thus  far  pre- 
pared in  deep  sautapans,  or  baking-sheets  with  a  little 
water  at  the  bottom ;  and  put  them  to  bake  in  an  oven 
of  moderate  heat  for  about  one  hour ;  they  must  then  be 
taken  out,  the  meat  pressed  down  level  with  a  spoon ; 
some  clarified  butt^  or  lard  poured  over  the  top  in 
sufficient  quantity  to  cover  in  the  meat ;  and  as  soon  as 
they  are  become  cold,  let  the  pans  be  covered  over  with 
strong  white  papers  moistened  on  one  side  with  whites 
of  egg ;  and  when  perfectly  dry,  oil  the  surface  of  the 
paper  over  with  a  brush,  and  put  the  potted  hare  in 
a  very  cool  place,  to  be  kept  for  use,  as  occasion 
lj*g[uire8. 

*'Note, — Any  kind  of  game  or  other  meats,  treated  in 
this  manner,  will  keep  good  for  months. 

No.  944.— POTTED  BEEF,  SPICED. 

Cure  a  piece  of  gravy-beef,  weighing  about  three 
pounds,  as  directed  for  curing  pressed  beef,  No.  393, 
using  the  same  ingredients  in  proportion  to  the  present 
quantity  of  meat;  and,  at  the  end  of  ten  days,  cut  up 
the  beef  into  four-ounce  pieces,  and  put  these  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  two 
bay -leaves,  thyme,  basil,  winter  savory  and  marjoram,  in 
«aall  quantities ;  a  dozen c\oN^,^\AaAa  of  mace^  twentj' 


housekjeepeb's  akd  butleb's  assistant.         403 

black  peppercorns,  and  a  small  spoonful  of  celery-seeds ; 
put  the  lid  on,  and  set  the  whole  to  stew  very  gently 
over  a  slow  fire  for  two  hours.  Strain  the  liquor  int*. 
a  basin,  and  first  chop  and  then  pound  the  beef  in  a 
mortar,  until  reduced  to  a  smooth  pulp ;  add  the  liquor 
(previously  boiled  down  with  four  ounces  of  good  glaze 
to  the  value  of  half  a  pint) ;  pound  all  together  again 
with  balf  a  pound  of  clarified  butter  added,  and  use 
this  to  fill  up  small  pots,  which  are  to  be  covered  in  with 
clarified  butter. 

No.  945.— POTTED  LOBSTEB. 

Remove  all  the  meat,  pith,  and  coral,  from  a  fresn- 
boiled  lobster,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  until  reduced 
to  a  smooth  pulp ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  a  little  powdered  mace,  and  four  ounces 
of  clarified  butter ;  pound  all  together  thoroughly ;  put 
it  into  pots ;  smooth  over  the  surface ;  cover  in  with  cla- 
rified butter,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Note. — Another  way — ^which  some  may  prefer — is  to 
pound  only  one-half  of  the  lobster,  while  the  remainder 
IS  cut  up  into  small  squares,  and  mixed  in  Avith  the 
preparation.  The  only  objection  to  this  method  is, — 
that  people  are  apt  to  be  tempted  to  swallow  the 
relish  without  sufficient  mastication  to  render  it  di- 
gestible. 

No.  946.— POTTED  SHRIMPS. 

Pick  all  the  tails  free  from  shells  from  a  quart  of 
fresh-boiled  shrimps ;  pound  the  shells  in  a  mortar  with 
four  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  a  small  blade  of  mace,  a 
teaspoonful  of  anchovy,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne;  put 
this  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  bruised  lobster  spawn, 
and  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  six  or  eight  minutes ;  rub  it 
through  a  coase  hair  sieve ;  add  the  tails  to  this  prepara- 
tion ;  make  all  hot  together,  and  use  it  to  fill  tsmall  pots 
with  ;  cover  in  with  clarified  butter,  and  keep  them  in 
i  cool  place  for  use. 

Note, — ^Prawns  are  excellent,  treated  in  the  same  way 

2  TV  <^ 


cayenne;  Eimmer  &\l  together  over  a  slow  i 
minutes ;   pound   in  a  mortar,  mb  throngj 
hair  Steve,  and  nee  this  preparation  to  fill  i 
which  muflt  ho  covered  in  with  clarified  1 
kept  in  a  cool  plaee  for  use. 

Note. — Smoked  salmon  or  dried  haddocks,  I 
the  Bame  manner  aa  bloaters,  will  furnish  othl 
relishes  for  the  breakfast  and  tea  table. 


No.  MB.— ABOMATIC 
Take  of  nutmegs  and 


lOEOUS  seasJ 


and  peppercorns  two  onncea  of  each,  oi 
baj-leaves,  three  ounces  of  basil,  the  Si 
two  ounces  of  winter  savory,  and  three  ounce 
half  an  ounce  of  cajenne-pepper,  the  s 
lemon-peel,  aud  Lwo  clovee  of  garlic 
dients  must  be  well  pulverized  in  a 
through  a  fine  wire  siere,  and  put  away  in  I 
bottles  for  use. 

No.  »8a^H0W  to  FBT  Pi 

Let  the  parsley  be  picked  free  froii|.a 


i04  THX  OOOK'8  ouidb,  abd 

No.  947^POTTED  BLOATEBS 

Cat  off  the  heads  and  tails  from  six  freeh-cnred 
Yarmouth-bloaters;  immerse  them  in  scalding  water, 
to  remove  the  skins ;  take  ont  the  backbones,  and  put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  six  ounces  of  clarified  butter, 
a  bit  of  mace,  a  teaspoonfiil  of  anchovy,  and  a  pinch  oi 
cayenne ;  simmer  all  together  over  a  slow  fire  for  ten 
minutes;  potmd  in  a  mortar,  rub  through  a  coarse 
hair  sieve,  and  use  this  preparation  to  fill  small  pots, 
which  must  be  covered  in  with  clarified  butter,  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place  for  use. 

Note. — Smoked  salmon  or  dried  haddocks,  treated  in 
the  same  manner  as  bloaters,  will  famish  other  delicate 
relishes  for  the  breakfast  and  tea  table. 

No.  948.— ABOMATIG  HEBBACEOUS  SEASONING. 

Take  of  nutmegs  and  mace  one  ounce  each,  of  cloves 
and  peppercorns  two  ounces  of  each,  one  ounce  of  dried 
bay-leaves,  three  ounces  of  basil,  the  same  of  marjoram, 
two  ounces  of  winter  savory,  and  three  ounces  of  ^yme, 
half  an  ounce  of  cayenue-pepper,  the  same  of  grated 
lemon-peel,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic;  all  these  ingre- 
dients must  be  well  pulverized  in  a  mortar,  and  s^ed 
through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  put  away  in  dry  corked 
bottles  for  use. 

No.  948a*— HOW  TO  FBY  PABSLEY. 

Let  the  parsley  be  picked  free  from  stalks,  washed 
and  trimmed,  placed  in  a  wire  basket,  and  dipped  in 
plenty  of  hot  frying  fat;  and  afterwards  drained  and 
dried  before  the  fire. 


yOUfiKKEETERS  AND   BUTLSE  S  ASeiSTANT.  100 


CHAPTEE  XXXI. 

DIFFERENT  KINDS  OF  PASTE. 


No.  949.--HOT-WATER-PASTE  FOR  RAISED  PIES. 

Put  a  pound  of  flour  on  the  table,  spread  it  out  with 
the  back  of  the  hand  so  as  to  form  a  hollow  in  the 
centre,  put  in  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  half  a  pint  of  hot 
water  with  four  ounces  of  dissolved  butter ;  mix  all  to- 
gether with  the  hand  into  a  Arm  paste ;  work  it  com- 
pactly with  both  hands,  roll  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  put  it 
in  a  warm  stewpan  for  use. 

No.  950.-COLD-WATER-PASTE  FOR  RAISED  PIES. 

Prepare  a  pound  of  flour  with  a  hollow  in  the  centre, 
add  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  four  ounces  of  butter,  and 
half  a  pint  of  water ;  mix  the  whole  into  a  firm  compact 
paste. 

No.  951.-SHORT-PASTE. 

To  a  pound  of  flour  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  a  gill  and  a 
naif  of  water ;  mix  all  together  into  a  firm  smooth  paste. 

No.  952.— LIGHT-PASTE. 

Spread  a  pound  of  flour  on  the  table  with  a  hollow  in 
the  centre,  add  one  egg,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  twelve 
ounces  of  butter,  and  a  gill  and  a  half  of  water ;  mix 
together  lightly  without  working  the  butter  into  the 
paste ;  it  must  then  be  rolled  out  two  feet  in  length  by 


i06  THx  cook's  guidb,  and 

ten  inches  wide,  folded  in  three  equal  lengths,  and 
then,  after  rolling  the  paste  ont  in  this  way  three  times 
more,  it  will  be  ready  for  use ;  it  will  thus  have  received 
what  is  termed  four  turns.  This  kind  of  paste  is  well 
adapted  for  covering  meat-pies,  and  frait-tsjts.  * 

No.  953.--TABT-PASTR 

Spread  a  pound  of  flour  on  the  table  with  a  hollow  in 
the  centre ;  add  half  a  pound  of  buttet,  three  ounces  of 
sugar,  one  egg,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  a  gill  of  water  ; 
mix  and  work  the  paste  into  a  smooth  compact  body. 

No.  954w~NOUILLES-PASTE. 

To  one  pound  of  flour  add  four  ^^s,  an  ounce  of 
butter,  half  an  ounce  of  salt^  and  a  dessert-spoonfdl  of 
water ;  mix  all  together  into  a  very  firm  compact  smooth 
paste. 

No.  955.-ALMOND-PASTE. 

Scald  eight  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds,  and  remove 
their  hulls;  wash  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and  then 
pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water ;  rub  this  through 
a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  having  put  the  paste  into  a  copper 
sugar-boiler  (see  Adams'  Illustrations),  with  a  wooden 
spoon  stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it  ceases  to  adhere  to 
the  sides  of  the  pan,  and  then  place  it  on  a  slab ;  add  the 
white  of  an  egg,  an  ounce  of  flour,  and  six  ounces  of 
finely-sifted  sugar ;  mix  all  this  into  a  fiim  paste,  and 
use  it  for  the  purpose  of  lining  what  are  termed  bon- 
bon tartlets. 

No.  956.— CBOQUANTE-PASTR 

To  half  a  pound  of  the  foregoing  paste  add  half  » 
pound  of  flour,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  four  ounces  of  but- 
ter, and  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water.  IJse 
this  paste  for  making  thin  biscuits,  to  be  cut  out  with 
fancy  cutters ;  and  after  being  baked  in  a  slack  oven« 
upon  greased  baking-sheets,  they  may  be  served  plM»i 
or  iced  over  with  sugar. 


\ 


QOUBSKSEPEB'S  and   BUTL£B'8  ASSISTAlfT.  107 


CHAPTER  XXXIT. 
VAMOUS  KINDS  OF  PRESEEVED  VEGETABLES. 


No.  957.— PRESERVED  PEAS,  PLAIN. 

First,  procure  a  pint-size  French  preserve  tin  box,  such 
as  are  sold  at  all  Italian  warehouses  ;  and  get  any  tin- 
man to  make  you  the  required  number  of  them,  with 
round  flat  tops  to  fit  on  them;  next,  All  them  with 
fresh-gathered  young  peas;  add  a  good  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  half  a  gill  of  water;  get  the  tops  soldered 
down,  put  the  boxes  of  peas  in  a  stock-pot,  fill  up  with 
boiling-water,  and  boil  them  fast  for  half  an  hour,  and 
withdraw  them  from  the  fire.  When  the  boxes  are 
cold,  ascertain  whether  any  of  them  leak  ;  and  set  them 
aside  to  be  soldered  over  afresh  on  the  leaky  part ;  the 
peas  are  to  be  kept  in  a  very  cool  place  :  a  cellar  is 
oest  adapted  for  this  purpose. 

No.  958.— PRESERVED  FRENCH  BEANS. 

Pick  and  string  any  given  quantity  of  small  fresh- 
gathered  French  beans,  and  throw  them  into  a  large 
untinned  copper  preserving-pan  containing  boiling- 
water  with  salt;  cover  them  over  with  fresh  vine- 
leaves,  and  set  them  aside  for  twenty-four  hours ;  they 
must  then  be  drained  upon  a  sieve,  gathered  up  in 
neatly-arranged  bunches,  and  packed  closely  in  tin 
boxes  similar  to  those  named  in  No.  957,  filled  up  with 
fresh-made  salt-water,  slightly  impregnated  with  salt 
soldered  down,  and  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  peas 


40^  THE  cook's  GUIDS,   ASI> 

No.  959.— PBESEEVFD  WINDSOR  BEANS. 

These  must  be  gathered  when  scarcely  half  grown, 
and  treated  in  the  same  way  as  peas.  A  sprig  of  green 
winter  savory  should  be  added  to  each  box  of  beans. 

No   960.— CUCITMBEBS  FOR  8AUCR 

Split,  peel,  remove  the  seeds,  and  cut  the  cucumbers 
in  inch  pieces,  and  when  all  are  finished,  throw  in  some 
salt — at  the  rate  of  two  ounces  to  the  pound  of  cucum- 
bers ;  move  them  together  for  a  few  minutes,  and  allow 
them  to  steep  in  the  salt  for  four  hours,  to  extract  the 
water :  they  must  then  be  drained,  and  HUed  into  the 
tin  boxes ;  fill  up  with  boiled  water,  solder  them  down, 
and  boil  them  in  the  usual  way  for  half  an  hour. 

No.  961.— PRESERVED  YOUNG  CARROT& 

Turn  the  carrots  in  their  own  shape,  and  as  you  do 
so,  throw  them  into  hot  water ;  when  all  are  ready,  put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to  cover  them ; 
add  fresh  butter  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  to  the 
pound  of  carrots,  and  salt  to  season ;  boil  the  carrots  in 
this  till  half  done,  and  then  arrange  them  neatly  in  tin 
boxes ;  fill  up  with  their  own  liquor,  snider  down,  boil 
for  half  an  hour,  and  put  them  away  in  the  cool. 

No.  962.— PRESERVED  MUSHROOMS. 

Choose  firm  button-mushrooms  for  this  purpose ;  wash 
them  well,  and  put  them  into  the  boxes,  and  immediately 
fill  them  up  witli  the  following  liquid  : — to  every  quart 
of  water  add  four  ounces  of  butter,  an  ounce  of  salt, 
and  the  juice  of  three  lemons;  boil  for  two  minutets 
and  finish  as  directed  above.  The  boxes  are  to  be 
soldered  down,  and  boiled  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

No.  963.— PRESERVED  TRUFFLEa 

During  the  months  of  December  and  January,  English 
truffles  are  at  their  best ;  and  as  they  may  be  bought  at 


UOUBSK£SPBB*S   AND   BUTLSR's   ABSISTAlTr.  lOll 

about  one-fifth  of  the  cost  of  French  trufiSes,  it  will  bo 
eyident  that  economy  will  readily  suggest  the  propriety 
of  preserving  a  few  for  gala  days.  The  best  means  to 
attain  that  end  is  to  attend  to  the  following  directions  : 
— thoroughly  wash  so  as  to  entirely  remove  all  dirt  and 
grit  from  the  truffles,  and  then  peel  them  very  thinly ; 
put  them  into  dry  bottles  with  large  necks ;  add  a  table- 
spoon£al  of  water,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  good 
sprig  of  thyme  to  each  bottle ;  cork  tigbt,  and  tie  down 
securely  with  wire  or  string ;  boil  for  half  an  hour,  and 
when  the  bottles  are  cold,  wax  over  the  corks. 

No.  964.-DBIED  HERBS. 

All  herbs  used  for  culinary  purposes,  intended  to  be 
diied  for  winter  use,  should  be  tied  up  in  handful 
branches,  and  laid  upon  sheets  of  paper  to  dry  in  the 
sun,  and  when  perfectly  dry,  should  be  tied  up  in  paper 
bags,  and  kept  for  use  in  a  dry  place. 

No.  965.— PBESEBYED  ABTIGHOKES. 

Young  quick-grown  artichokes  only,  are  fit  for  pre- 
serving; their  leaves  should  bo  pulled  oflf  without 
tearing  or  in  any  way  injuring  the  pithy  part,  or,  as  it 
is  ffi^miliarly  termed,  the  bottom ;  these  must  then  be 
peeled  or  turned  so  as  to  remove  all  the  rough  green 
which  covers  them,  and  then  thrown  into  a  pan  contain- 
ing water  with  some  vinegar ;  and  when  all  are  finished, 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to  make 
them  swim ;  two  ounces  of  butter  to  a  quart  of  water,  and 
salt  to  season  ;  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  boil 
gently  till  the  artichokes  are  three-parts  done ;  they 
are  then  to  be  put  into  their  tin  boxes,  filled  up  with 
their  own  liquor,  soldered  down,  and  after  being  boiled 
for  twenty  minutes,  are  to  be  put  away  in  a  cool  place. 


410  7IU  COOKS  GUIDE,  AKD 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

DIFFEBENT  KINDS  OF  PICKLES. 


No.  966.— TO  PICKLE  GHERKINa 

Gherkins  are  a  very  small  prickly  kind  of  cucumber ; 
they  are  fit  for  preserving  about  the  beginning  of 
September,  and  should  be  put  into  a  coarse  cloth,  with 
a  double  handful  of  dry,  rough  salt,  and  shaken  about  to 
free  them  from  their  outer  skin ;  they  must  then  be 
picked  from  the  salt,  and  put  into  a  pan. 

Next  boil  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  the  gherkins  in  a 
copper  pan  with  some  cloves,  Jamaica  peppercorns,  and 
mace,  and  pour  it  upon  the  gherkins :  the  vinegar 
must  be  again  boiled  up  twice,  and  when  the  first  heat 
has  subsided,  pour  it  again  to  the  gherkins,  and  when 
thoroughly  cold,  put  them  in  jars ;  cover  down  with 
bladders,  and  keep  them  in  a  cold  place. 

No.  1)67.— TO  PICKLE  ONIONS. 

Peel  fresh-gathered  button-onions,  and  as  they  are 
peeled,  throw  them  into  a  pan  containing  white  vinegar; 
and  when  finished,  pour  oflf  the  vinegar  into  a  fresh- 
tinned  ;  stewpan  add  peppercorns  and  whole  ginger, 
and  salt  to  season  ;  boil  all  together  for  five  minutes,  and 
as  soon  as  the  first  heat  has  subsided,  pour  it  upon  the 
onions  :  the  vinegar  must  be  again  boiled  up  twice. 
TVhen  the  onions  are  quite  cold,  i^ut  them  away  in  jars. 


BOUSSKSEPKB*S   AND   BUTUSB's   ASBiSTAKT.  4.11 

Ko.  968.— TO  PICKLE  BED  CABBAGE. 

These  cabbages  are  fittest  for  pickling  about  the 
middle  of  October ;  they  should  be  cut  in  quarters,  the 
centre  stalk  cut  out,  and.  then  shred  in  strips  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  put  into  an  earthen  pan 
having  a  lid;  some  vinegar,  with  cloves,  mace,  and 
peppercorns,  and  salt  to  season,  must  be  boiled  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  poured  upon  the  cabbage,  the 
lid  put  on  the  pan,  and  set  aside  till  the  next  day,  when 
the  boiling  is  to  be  repeated,  and  also  on  the  day  fol- 
lowing; each  time  pour  again  to  the  cabbage:  when 
cold,  put  the  pickled  cabbage  away  in  jars. 

No.  969.— MIXED  PICKLES. 

Procure  equal  quantities  of  jte  following  vegetables : 
—cauliflowers,  cucumbers,  button-onions,  small  gher- 
kins, French  beans,  small  chillies — green,  yellow,  and 
red;  cut  up  the  larger  sorts,  and  when  all  are  ready, 
ihrow  them  into  a  preserving-pan  containing  boiling 
water  rather  strongly  seasoned  with  salt,  and  allow  the 
vegetables  to  remain  in  this  (off  the  fire)  until  the 
water  is  nearly  cold;  the  vegetables  must  then  be 
drained  free  from  any  water,  and  strewn  out  upon  sieves 
to  dry  in  the  sun  for  three  hours,  afterwards  to  be  put 
in  a  large  earthen  pan.  Next,  put  sufficient  vinegar  in 
a  tinned  stewpan  with  cloves,  mace,  and  about  four 
ounces  of  whole  mustard-seed,  and  boil  these  for  five 
minutes;  after  which  pour  the  whole  to  the  prepared 
vegetables,  and  set  them  aside  till  the  next  day;  and 
repeat  the  boiling  twice  over,  remembering  that  the 
firet  heat  of  the  vinegar  must  be  allowed  to  subside 
previously  to  pouring  it  to  the  pickles;  when  cold, 
put  them  away  in  jars. 

No.  970.— PICCATJ.niTiA. 

This  is  prepared  with  the  same  kinds  of  vegetables  as 
the  foregoing,  to  which  may  be  added  nasturtiums  and 


412  TBI  oook'b  ouidx,  anb 

capsicums ;  the  same  spices,  &c.,  are  to  be  added  to  the 
vinegar,  and  also  Durham  mustard,  and  turmeric  or 
curry  powder,  in  the  relative  proportions  of  one  ounce 
of  mustard  and  one  ounce  of  curry  powder  to  each  quart 
of  vinegar.  In  all  other  particulius,  follow  the  direo- 
tir)ns  for  mixed  pickles. 

No.  971.— REMOULADE  OF  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  split  them  in  four,  remove  the 
seeds,  and  divide  tho  strips  into  two-inch  lengths ;  put 
these  in  a  pan  with  salt  at  the  rate  of  one  ounce  to  a 
pound  of  cucumbers,  and  allow  them  to  steep  for  four 
tiours,  stirring  them  occasionally;  they  must  then  be 
drained  on  sieves  to  get  rid  of  all  moisture,  and  put  in 
the  sun  to  dry  for  an  hour  ;  after  which  they  are  to  be 
mixed  in  sufficient  Prince  of  Wales's  sauce.  No.  81,  to 
bind  them  together,  and  put  away  in  small  jars  well 
covered  over  with  bladders,  and  kept  in  a  very  cold 
place. 

Note. — This  is  'without  exception  the  most  delicate 
kind  of  pickle  it  is  possible  to  make. 

LADIES'  DELIGHT. 

Put  eight  ounces  of  chopped  apples,  eight  ounces  of 
chopped  onions,  and  two  ounces  of  chopped  chillies  into 
a  jar ;  boil  one  pint  of  white-wine  vinegar  with  a  des- 
sert-spoonful of  salt ;  pour  it  to  these  ingredients  ;  mix, 
and  when  cold,  use  the  pickle  to  be  eaten  with  cold 
meats,  &c. 

No.  972.— MINCEMEAT. 

First,  prepare  your  spices  in  manner  and  proportions 
as  follows :  viz., — to  four  ounces  of  cinnamon  add  two 
ounces  of  nutmegs,  four  ounces  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of 
ground  ginger,  one  ounce  of  coriander- seeds,  the  rind  of 
twelve  oranges  and  of  twelve  lemons  rubbed  on  sugar, 
and  scraped  off.  Pound  and  sift  the  spices,  mix  these 
with  the  orange  and  lemon  sugars,  and  keep  this  well 
corked  in  dry  bottles.    Tha  n^xt  thin^  is  to  procure  four 


nOUSEKBSPEB^S   AND   BUTL£lt*S  ASSISTANT.  413 

pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  four  pounds  of  cleaned  currants, 
two  pounds  of  Eleme  figs,  two  pounds  of  preserved  gin- 
ger, four  pounds  of  mixed  candied-peel,  six  pounds  of 
coarse  chopped  beef-suet,  four  pounds  of  tripe,  and  four 
pounds  of  boiled  salt^beef  chopped  fine  together,  and  six 
pounds  of  peeled  apples,  to  be  chopped  with  the  i-aisins 
and  currants ;  the  candied-peel  is  to  be  shred  small :  mix 
all  together  on  a  clean  table,  adding  six  pounds  of  moist 
sugar  and  the  spices ;  and  when  thoroughly  mixed,  put 
the  mincemeat  mto  stone  jars ;  and  two  days  after,  pour 
into  each  its  fair  proportion  of  two  bottles  of  brandy 
and  two  bottles  of  port.  The  addition  of  four  ounces  of 
pounded  bitter-almonds  would  be  an  improvement. 

Note, — To  those  who  consider  this  a  too  large  quantity 
of  mincemeat  for  the  economy  of  their  family,  I  would 
su^^est  that,  by  taking  one-half  or  a  fourth  part  of  the 
relative  proportions  of  the  foregoing  ingredients,  they 
may  produce  a  more  satisfactory  result,  without  dete- 
rioration to  the  excellence  of  the  mincemeat. 


ill  THB  0OOK.*B  QVIDM,   ABD 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

COOKERY  FOB  INVALIDS  AND  INFANTS. 


No.  973.— BEEF  TEA. 

Procure  a  pound  of  fresh-killed  lean  beef,  cut  either 
from  the  rump  or  gravy-piece ;  cut  this  in  slices,  pare 
away  every  particle  of  fit,  and  cut  the  slices  of  beef  into 
very  small  squares  or  mince ;  put  this  in  a  clean  stewpan 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil ; 
remembering  that,  as  soon  as  the  scum  rises  to  the  sur- 
face, it  should  be  removed  with  a  spoon,  and  a  very 
small  quantity  of  salt  and  cold  water  should  be  poured 
in  at  the  edge  of  the  stewpan,  in  order  to  facilitate  the 
rising  of  the  albumen  in  the  form  of  scum.  Unless 
due  precaution  be  taken  to  effect  the  skimming  satis- 
factorily, the  broth,  instead  of  being  clear  and  bright, 
becomes  thick  and  turgid ;  and  consequently  presents 
an  unappetising  aspect  to  the  eye  of  the  patient,  whose 
debilitated  state  requires  perhaps  something  which  has 
at  least  an  inviting  appearance  to  tempt  him  to  partake 
of  any  food  whatever. 

When  the  beef  tea  has  boiled  gently  for  about  half  an 
hour,  and  has  become  reduced  to  about  half  its  original 
quantity,  let  it  be  strained  through  a  clean  sieve  or  nap- 
Icin  into  a  basin,  and  serve  some  of  it  in  a  cup,  with  dry 
toast,  and  salt,  on  a  tray. 

Note, — The  foregoing  is  intended  for  patients  whose 
case  may  require  com^aiv«Ai\feVj  ^^^  food;  in  closes 


BOUSSKEBPSB'S  and  BUTLEB's  A8818TAirr.  415 

whore  food  of  a  more  stimulating  character  is  needed 
m  the  form  of  extract  of  beef,  it  will  be  necessary  Uy 
double  the  quantity  of  meat ;  and  when  it  happens  that 
beef  tea  is  required  in  a  hurry,  the  meat  should  be 
chopped  as  fine  as  sausage-meat,  put  in  a  stewpan  with 
boiling  water,  stirred  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  and 
then  strained  through  a  napkin,  for  use.  A  small  glass 
of  old  Madeira,  or  of  Amontillado,  added  to  beef  tea, 
proves  an  excellent  restorative. 

No.  974.— MUTTON  BROTH. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  scrag  of  mutton,  chop  it 
into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  rather 
better  than  a  quart  of  water ;  set  it  to  boil,  skim  it  well ; 
add  a  little  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  washed  pearl  barley ; 
boil  gently  for  an  hour ;  strain  off  the  broth  through  a 
sieve  into  a  basin,  and  serve  a  teacupM  with  dry  toast 
out  in  fingers. 

A  turnip,  and  half  a  head  of  celery  may  be  added  to 
give  flavour,  where  vegetables  are  not  objectionable. 

No.  975.— VEAL  TEA 

Take  a  pound  of  fresh  veal  cutlet,  pare  away  all  fat, 
out  the  veal  in  small  mince,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  a 
Very  clean  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  verj^ 
Sttiall  quantity  of  salt ;  allow  the  tea  to  boil  gently  for 
ftiee-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  then  strain  it  ^ough  a 
^eve  into  a  basin. 

This  broth  is  excellent  for  infants;  a  spoonful  of 
*iTowroot,  sago,  or  tapioca  added,  and  boiled  gently  for 
^  minutes,  renders  this  food  more  substantial. 

Veal  tea  and  new  milk,  or  asses'  milk,  in  equal  parts, 
gloves  beneficial  to  infants  brought  up  by  hand. 

No.  976.— CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Draw  the  chicken,  scald  the  legs,  and  remove  the 
^tide  which  covers  them;  cut  up  the  chicken  in 
^tiesnbers  or  joints,  leaving  the  breast  whole ;  put  the 


416  TUK  000K*8  OUn)]S,  AVD 

pieces  of  chicken  in  a  very  clean  stewpau,  with  a  quart 
of  water,  a  little  salt  and  two  ounces  of  washed  rice,  to 
hoil  very  gently  for  an  hour ;  and  when  done,  serve  the 
broth  with  or  Mrithoat  rice,  as  may  be  deemed  most 
proper  or  agreeable. 

No.  977.— CHICKEN  PANADA. 

The  white  meat  from  the  breast  of*  the  chicken  which 
nas  already  served  for  making  the  broth  may  be  used 
fur  this  purpose;  yet  it  is  true  that,  when  prepared 
with  the  breast  of  a  fresh-roasted  chicken,  the  panada  is 
not  only  more  savoury  to  the  palate,  but  it  is  also  more 
nutritious.  Soak  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll,  or  a  few 
rusks,  in  hot  milk,  and  put  this  in  a  clean  stewpan  with 
the  meat  from  the  chicken  previously  reduced  to  a  smooth 
pulp  by  chopping  and  pounding  it  in  a  mortar;  add 
a  little  chicken  broth,  and  stir  the  panada  over  the  fire 
for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  some  warm  chicken 
broth  separately,  in  order  to  give  the  iniknt  alternate 
spoonfuls  of  each. 

No.  978.— GAME  PANADA. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  the  fore- 
going;, substituting  game — such  as  young  pheasant,  or 
partridge,  or  rabbit— for  chicken. 

j^o.  979—PECTORAL  BROTH. 

Put  a  cut-up  chicken  into  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of 
water,  a  cabbage-lettuce,  a  small  bunch  of  balm  and 
bunage,  a  small  handful  of  chei-vil,  three  ounces  of 
prepared  Iceland  moss,  half  an  ounce  of  picked  gum- 
arabic,  and  a  little  salt ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  boils, 
and  then  remove  it  to  the  side  to  continue  gently 
boiling  for  an  hour.  It  must  then  be  strained  into  a 
basin  for  use. 

l^his  broth,  when  cold,  becomes  gelatinized ;  it  maj 
bo  given  warm,  or  eaten  as  a  jelly. 

I'ho  balm,  burragci,  axii^  e^«tN\V  ^\fe  «^eet  herbs,  and 


HOU8EKSEPEB*8   AND   BUTLEB'B  ASSISTANT.  417 

r  be  obtained  at  Covent  Garden,  or  in  any  gentle- 

I's  garden. 

lie  prepared  moss  is  to  be  had  only  at  Savory  and 

)re*s,  Bond  Street. 

Tote. — The  use  of  this  pectoral  is  efficacious  in  pul- 

lary  diseases. 

No.  980.— MUCILAGINOUS  BROTH. 

'nt  a  cut-up  chicken  and  a  pound  of  veal  cutlet  and 
ilf 8  foot  into  a  stewpan  with  three  pints  of  waterj 
I  and  skim ;  then  add  a  dozen  crayfish,  and  a  pint  of 
den  snails — both  bruised  raw  in  a  mortar ;  add  also 
landfill  of  balm,  burrage,  and  chervil,  and  three 
ces  of  prepared  Iceland  mosb,  and  a  small  quantity 
alt.     The  broth  must  boil  -very  gently  by  the  side  of 

fire  for  about  two  hou^^  without  much  reduction ; 

when  done,  is  to  be  strained  into  a  basin  for  use. 
^ofe. — This  is  a  powerful  demulcent,  and  is  much  in 

in  France,  in  cases  of  phthisis,  catarrh,  bronchitis, 

No.  980a.— DR.  WRATISLAWS  STRENGTHENING 
EXTRACT  OF  BEE1?\ 

Take  one  pound  of  lean  beef  and  cut  the  same  into 
lU  pieces,  say  half  an  inch  square ;  place  them  in  a 
with  a  gill  of  water,  and  then  put  it  in  the  oven  for 
f  an  hour,  after  which  time  take  it  out  and  add  one 
i  of  water,  re})lacing  it  in  the  oven  for  an  hour  and  a 
f ;  when,  after  freeing  it  from  its  grease,  and  strain- 
;  it  through  a  muslin,  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

No.  981.— INVIGORATING  BROTH. 

^ut  up  a  partridge  into  joints,  and  a  pound  of  beef- 
ak  in  small  collops,  and  fry  all  brown  with  a  little 
ter  in  a  sautapan ;  cut  up  a  red  carrot,  and  two  heads 
celery  in  very  small  dice,  and  fry  these  with  two 
ices  of  raw  ham,  and  a  little  butter,  in  a  stewpan ; 
i  thereto  the  partridge  and  the  beef,  a  sprig  of 
'me,  and  a  little  u;ilt;   fill  up  with  three  pints  of 

2  I 


418  THB  0OOK8  OniDl,  AR> 

water,  and  set  the  broth  to  boil ;  skim  it  well — adding 
occasionally  a  little  cold  water  at  the  side  of  the  stew- 
pan,  and  allow  it  to  boil  very  gently  for  an  hour  and  a 
half: — it  mnst  then  be  strained  into  a  basin  ;  and  when 
it  is  given  to  the  patient  requiring  such  a  stimulant, 
add  a  small  glass  of  old  Madeira  to  each  cupfdl. 

No.  982.— RBSTOBATIVB  BROTH. 

Break  np  two  ponnds  of  fresh  knuckle  of  veal,  and 
pnt  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an  old  hen,  an  onion  stuck 
with  four  cloves,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  pint  of  water, 
and  set  the  whole  on  a  brisk  fire  to  boil  down  to  a  glaze 
— without  allowing  it  to  become  at  all  calcined  or 
burnt;  then  add  a  carrot  and  two  heads  of  celery;  fill 
up  with  three  quarts  of  water;  boil,  skim,  and  set  the 
stewpan  down  by  the  side  of  tibe  fire  to  simmer  gently 
for  two  hours,  by  which  time  it  should  be  reduced  to 
half  its  original  quantity.  It  must  then  be  strained 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin  for  use.  Previously  to 
serving  any  kind  of  broth  to  a  sick  person,  all  grease 
should  be  removed  by  passing  small  sheets  of  paper 
over  the  surface. 

No.  983.— ALMOND  MILK  BEVEEAGE. 

Scald  two  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds,  and  six  bitter 
almonds ;  remove  their  hulls,  and  after  washing  them  in 
cold  water,  pound  them  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
orange-flower  water,  and  two  ounces  of  loaf-sugar  in  a 
mortar,  until  they  are  reduced  to  a  smooth  creamy 
pulp :  a  few  drops  of  water  must  be  occasionally  added 
while  pounding;  and  when  finished,  take  it  up  in  a 
white  basin;  add  a  pint  of  cold  water,  stir  together, 
cover  over  with  a  plate,  and  allow  the  whole  to  stand 
in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour,  to  extract  the  flavour  of  the 
almonds :— the  milk  may  then  be  strained  through  a 
clean  napkin,  and  put  into  a  very  clean  decanter,  to  be 
kept  on  ice,  if  possible,  to  prevent  it  from  turning 
-x)ur  before  it  is  all  \xaeA.. 


HODSIKSIPXB'S  AND   BUTLEB'S  ASSISTANT.  419 

NoU, — ^Milk  of  almonds  mixed  with  water  is  ^isefal  m 
allaying  fever,  <&o. 

No.  984.— ISINGLASS  JELLY. 

Fat  one  onnce  of  isinglass  into  a  clean  stewpan  with 
two  ounoes  of  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water;  stir  tliiu 
on  the  fire  till  it  boils,  and  set  it  by  the  side  to  oontinue 
boiling  very  gently  for  twenty  minutes,  adding  occa- 
sionally a  very  little  cold  water  to  facilitate  the  throw- 
ing np  impurities  in  the  form  of  scum ;  this  must  bo 
removed,  and  the  jelly  strained  through  a  napkin  into  a 
basin ;  add  a  little  white-wine,  or  the  juice  of  an  orange, 
and  pour  the  jelly  into  glasses,  and  set  them  in  ice,  or 
in  a  oold  place,  until  the  jelly  has  become  firm ;  and 
then  it  will  be  an  agreeable  ofiering  to  the  sick  patient 
needing  delicate  food. 

No.  985.— EIOE- WATER. 

Wash  three  ounces  of  rice  in  several  waters,  and  then 
put  it  into  a  very  clean  stowpan  with  a  quart  of  water 
and  one  ounce  of  raisins ;  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour, 
strain  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  into  a  jug,  and  when 
cold,  drink  plentifully. 

The  comforting  powers  of  rice  water,  when  properly 
prepared,  are  too  generally  known  and  appreciated  to 
render  it  necessary  for  me  to  point  out  when  it  is  most 
proper  to  administer  this  simple  remedy. 

No.  986.— BARLI<:Y- WATER. 

Two  ounoes  of  pearl  barley  boiled  in  a  quart  of  water 
for  twenty  minutes,  and  afterwards  allowed  to  stand 
tmtil  it  becomes  cold ;  it  must  then  be  strained  through 
a  sieve  into  a  jug,  and  a  small  piece  of  lemon-peel 
added. 

No.  987.— TOAST  AND  WATER. 

Boil  a  quart  of  water,  and  pour  it  upon  a  good-sized 
piece  of  ommb  of  bread  which  has  been  well  toasted 

2  E  2 


420  THE  GOOK*S  GUIDX,   AKD 

before  a  clear  fire  until  it  becomes  very  crisp,  and  of  a 
dark-brown  colour ;  allow  this  to  steep  for  half  an  hour, 
and  then  decant  it  into  a  water-bottle. 

No.  988.— EAU  SUCREE. 

To  a  pint  of  cold  spring- water  add  an  onnce  of  lump- 
sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water ;  mix. 
This  is  a  very  refreshing  drink  in  summer,  and  is,  be- 
sides, perfectly  harmless. 

No.  989.— ARBOWBOOT. 

To  half  a  pint  of  boiled  water,  add  rather  better  than 
half  an  ounce  of  Bermuda  arrowroot,  previously  mixed 
in  a  teacup  with  a  wineglassful  of  cola  water ;  stir  thii^ 
on  the  fire  until  it  boils  for  a  few  minutes,  pour  it  into  a 
basin,  flavour  with  a  little  sugar  and  a  small  spoonful  of 
brandy,  or  a  little  red  or  white  wine,  or  else  with  a 
little  orange-flower  water ;  or,  if  more  agreeable,  a  ven* 
small  piece  of  orange  or  lemon  peel  may  be  boiled 
with  the  arrowroot. 

No.  990.— TO  PREPARE  SAGO. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  pearl  sago  in  a  pint  of  water  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  flavour  it  as  directed  for  arrowroot. 
Sago  may  also  be  boiled  in  either  mutton,  chicken,  or 
veal  broth,  or  in  beef  tea. 

No.  991.— TAPIOCA. 
This  is  prepared  similarly  to  sago. 

No.  992.— TO  MAKE  GRUEL. 

Take  of  Robinson's  Patent  Groats  one  tablespoonfnl 
mixed  in  a  wineglassful  of  cold  water,  and  haviDg 
poured  this  into  a  stewpan  containing  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  stir  the  gruel  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  ten  minutes . 
pour  it  into  a  basin,  add  salt  and  butter,  or  if  m^'re 
agi'eeable,  rum,  brandy,  or  wine,  and  sugar. 


bouskksepeh's  and  buti.kr's  assistant.         421 

o.  992a.— BROWN  AND  POLSON'S  SOUFFLE  PUDDING. 

Put  six  ounces  of  Brown  and  Poison's  patent  corn-flour 
to  a  stewpan  with  eight  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  and 
ix  these  smoothly  together  with  a  quart  of  milk ;  add 
or  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  few 
ops  of  essence  of  vanilla ;  stir  briskly  on  the  fire 
ltd  it  boils;  and  then  work  in  vigorously  six  yolks 
eggs,  and  the  six  whites  whisked  into  a  firm  froth  are 
be  lightly  incorporated  with  the  batter,  which  must 
len  be  poured  into  a  slightly-buttered  pie-dish,  and 
iked  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  for  about  half  an 
)ur,  sugared  over  the  surface,  and  sent  to  table  imrae- 
ately. 

No.  992b.— A  LIGHT  PUDDING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

To  two  oimces  of  Brown  and  Poison,  add  two  ounces 
'  pounded  sugar,  three  gills  of  milk,  one  ounce  of  but- 
r,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  orange-flower 
ater ;  stir  briskly  on  the  fire  until  it  boils  ;  then  work 
I  three  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  three  whites  whisked 
rm;  pour  this  into  a  buttered  mould  or  pudding-basin, 
id  steam  it  in  the  usual  way. 

No.  992c.— INFANTS*  FOOD. 

To  one  dessert-spoonful  of  Brown  and  Poison,  mixed 
ith  a  wineglassful  of  cold  water,  add  half  a  pint  of 
filing  water;  stir  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes; 
veeten  lightly,  and  feed  the  baby ;  but  if  the  infant  is 
3ing  brought  up  by  hand,  this  food  should  then  be 
ixed  with  milk, — ^not  otherwise,  as  the  use  of  two 
ifferent  milks  would  be  injurious. 

No.  992D.— SAVOURY  CUSTARD. 

To  one  dessert-spoonful  of  Brown  and  Poison,  add 
ither  better  than  half  a  pint  of  good  beef-tea ;  mix  and 
ir  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  and  then  administer 

light  yet  invigorating  kind  of  food  to  the  debilitated 


424  THE  COOK*g  OUIDS,   A9D 

No.  994.— BLACK-CUBBANT  JELLY. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  red-cnrrani  jelly, 
with  the  exception  that  in  the  present  case  it  is  neces 
sary  to  put  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  hlack- 
currant  juice. 

No.  995.— BASPBERBY  JELLY. 

To  twelve  pounds  of  raspberries  add  four  pounds  of 
white  currants ;  bruise  and  boil  the  whole  in  the  usaal 
way;  press  the  juice  out,  and  to  every  pound  of  juice 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  as  directed 
for  red-currant  jelly,  and  finish  in  the  same  manner. 

No.  996.-CUBRANT  AND  BA8PBEBBY  JELLY. 

Six  pounds  of  red  currants,  three  of  white,  three  d 
raspberries ;  proceed  as  for  red-currant  jelly. 

No.  997.-WHITE.CUBBANT  JELLY. 

To  twelve  pounds  of  ripe  white  currants  add  a  quart 
of  water ;  bruise  and  scald  the  fruit  in  the  preserving- 
pan  ;  press  out  the  juice,  and  to  every  pound  add  one 
pound  of  fine  loaf-sugar;  boil  over  a  sharp  fire,  with 
the  pan  scarcely  half  full  in  order  that  J^e  jelly  may  not 
be  on  long  enough  to  gain  colour.  This  jelly  is  never 
very  bright. 

No.  998.— APPLE  JELLY. 

Slice  up  twelve  pounds  of  grey  russets  into  a  pre- 
servincj-pan  containing  five  quarts  of  boiling  water  and 
the  juice  of  two  lemons ;  boil  this  on  a  sharp  fire,  Stir- 
ling occasionally  until  reduced  to  a  pulp ;  it  must  then 
be  thrown  into  jelly-bags  to  filter  bright ;  pouring  back 
the  three  first  passings.  When  all  the  juice  has  passed 
through  the  bag,  weigh  it,  and  to  every  twenty  ounces 
of  apple-juice  add  one  pound  of  the  finest  loaf-sngar; 
boil,  skim,  and  as  soon  as  yon  find  that  the  jelly  hangs 
in  webs  on  the  edge  ol  the  skimmer  as  it  is  held  up  out 


HOUSXKEEPEB'b  AKD   BUTLBB'B  A88IBTAMT.  425 

>f  the  boiling  jelly,  it  will  be  done,  and  must  be  re- 
noved  from  the  fire,  poured  into  pots,  and  set  aside  to 
)eoom6  oold :  finish  in  the  ordinary  way. 

Note. — Apple  jelly  prepared  in  a  small  quantity,  and 
poured  into  dinner-plates,  about  the  sixth  of  an  inch 
iiick,  when  set  firm  and  cold,  serves  to  cover  all  sorts 
)f  compotes  of  fi-uits  for  dessert ;  and  adds  very  consider- 
ibly  to  their  brilliancy. 

No.  999.— GOOSEBERRY  JAM. 

Put  the  gooseberries  on  to  boil  in  a  preserving-pan 
^th  about  a  quart  of  water,  stimng  them  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  dissolved,  rub 
hem  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  upon  a  large  dish, 
iBing  a  eaUipot  for  the  purpose  of  working  the  pulp 
ihrough  uie  sieve. 

For  every  pound  of  pulp  calculate  twelve  ounces  of 
rugar.  Put  the  sugar  in  a  preserving-pan  with  water 
mong^  to  cover  it ;  and  boil  it  to  the  pearling  degree ; 
lieii  add  the  gooseberry  pulp,  and  stir  the  jam  till  it  is 
lone;  this  will  be  ascertained  when  it  begins  to  hane  to 
(he  edge  of  the  spoon,  as  it  is  lifted  out ;  it  must  then 
be  xemoyed  from  the  fire,  and  put  into  pots  imine* 

[r^-.   ;  No.  999a.— RASPBERRY  JAM.* 

pound  of  pickled  raspberries,  calculate  twelve 

Igar ;  this  must  be  boiled  as  in  the  preceding 

jflie  fruit  being  added,  must  be  stirred  on  the 

)berries  are  entirely  dissolved  ;  by  that 

be  sufficiently  boiled ;  it  must  then 

gallipots  or  jars. 


i  Ko.  1000.— DAMSON  JAM. 

of  damsons  on  to  boil  in  a  pre- 

•  quart  of  water,   stirring  with  a 
they  are  dissolved ;  they  must  then 

•  sievi    on  a  dish.     To  every  pound 

in  the  same  manner  as  raspbeny. 


^6  THB  oooK  8  aun>m,  amd 

of  pulp  allow  a  pound  of  sngar ;  the  sugar  must  first  be 
boiled  to  the  pearling  degree,  and  then,  after  adding  the 
pulp,  stir  the  jam  until  sufficiently  reduced  aooording 
to  me  usual  test,  and  put  away  in  gallipots. 

No.  lOOl.-APBIOOT  JAM. 

Split  and  slice  up  twelve  pounds  of  ripe  apricots; 
break  the  stones,  extract  the  kernels,  scald  and  add 
them  to  the  fruit.  Boil  twelve  pounds  of  sugar  to  the 
pearling  degree ;  throw  in  the  fruit,  stir  until  entirely 
dissolved,  and  when  tested  satisfactorily  with  the  skim- 
mer, remove  the  jam  from  the  fire,  and  put  it  away  in 
pots. 

Peaches,  greengages,  magnum-bonum  plums,  and  all 
other  plums  are  to  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 

No.  1002.— APPLE  MABMALADE.      - 
See  Apple  Charlotte. 

No.  1003.— ORANGE  MABMALADE. 

Split  the  oranges  in  quarters,  use  a  sharp  knife  to  cut 
out  the  fruity  pulp  from  each  quarter  without  any  of 
the  white  pith  left  on  it;  and,  as  this  is  effected,  pick 
out  all  the  pips,  put  the  fruit  into  a  basin,  and  the 
quarters  of  peel  into  a  largo  pan  containing  water ;  and 
when  this  is  completed,  boil  the  quarters  of  peel  in 
water  until  they  are  nearly  soft  to  the  touch;  they 
must  then  be  drained,  and  put  to  soak  in  cold  water  for 
at  least  twelve  hours,  and  are  then  to  be  drained  upon 
sieves  for  two  hours  at  least  to  rid  them  from  all  un- 
necessary moisture ;  after  which  they  must  be  cut  up  in 
shreds.  Next,  weigh  the  shred  peel  and  the  interior 
fruit  kept  in  reserve,  and  for  every  pound  of  these  allow 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  the  sugar  to 
the  pearling  degree,  then  add  the  fruit  sliced  very  thin, 
and  the  shred  peel ;  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
the  whole  time. 


HOUSnCSlPUi's  AND   BUTLSIlB  ABSIBTANT.  427 


CHAPTER  XXXVl. 
BON-BONS. 


No.  1004.- BURNT  ALMONDS. 

Alfa  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  in  a  cloth  to  rid 
from  from  dust,  &c.,  and  put  them  to  get  warm  in 
3reen.  Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
r  to  the  snap ;  add  a  spoonful  of  vcmilla  sugar,  and 
drops  of  prepared  cochineal ;  withdraw  the  suear 
the  fire,  throw  in  the  almonds,  stir  altogether  with 
den  spoon,  detaching  the  sugar  from  the  bottom 
tides  of  the  sugar-boiler ;  and  as  soon  as  the 
ids  become  covered  with  the  sugar,  turn  all  out 
a  wire  sieve,  and  cover  over  with  paper  for  five 
es ;  at  the  end  of  this  time,  pick  out  the  charged 
ids  from  the  sugar ;  put  this  back  into  the  sugar- 
•  with  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it,  and  having 
I  it  Ax>  the  snap,  again  throw  in  the  almonds,  and 
liem  an  »ther  charge,  by  stirring  them  carefully,  so 
dlow  them  to  take  as  much  sugar  as  possible,  keep- 
lem  separate  ;  and  when  this  is  accomplished,  turn 
out  upon  the  wire  sieve ;  again  pick  the  almonds 
the  sugar,  and  put  this  into  the  boiler  with  a  little 
,  and  a  few  more  drops  of  cochineal,  and  having 
I  it  nearly  to  the  snap,  stir  the  almonds  in  it  to 
them  another  charge  of  sugar,  and  turn  them 
pon  the  sieve  to  cool ;  the  burnt-almonds  bj'  this 
having  received  three  charges,  should  be  double 


428  THE  OOOK'S  GUTDM,   A2fD 

their  original  size  :  they  may  be  served  in  their  natara] 
state,  or  else  wrapped  in  cossack  papers. 

No.  1005.— BUKNT  PISTACHIO  PBAUNES. 

Fresh-imported  pistachio-kernels  should  be  selected 
for  this  purpose,  as  they  then  still  retain  their  beautiful 
pinky-purple  bloom,  while  the  interior  of  the  kernel  is 
of  a  bright,  delicate  green. 

For  the  preparation  of  these,  proceed  as  directed  for 
burnt-almonds. 

No.  1006.— ROSE  DROPS. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  coarse-sifted  sugar  into  a  sugar- 
boiler,  with  one  ounce  of  water,  a  few  drops  of  cochi- 
neal, and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  roses ;  stir  this  with 
a  small  wooden  spoon  on  the  fire  until  the  composition 
has  become  liquified,  and  is  on  the  point  of  simmering ; 
the  sugar  must  then  be  stirred  a  few  minutes  off  the  fire, 
and  dropped  from  the  beak  or  spout  of  the  pan,  cutting 
off  the  small  drops  the  size  of  a  threepenny-piece  upon 
very  slightly-oiled  baking-sheets ;  and  when  cold,  will 
be  easily  removed  with  a  thin  knife. 

White  drops,  or  pastilles,  are  made  In  the  same  man- 
ner, suppressing  the  cochineal,  and  adding  a  few  drops 
of  peppermint,  instead  of  rose-essence ;  they  may  alio 
be  varied  by  using  different  essences  and  harmless 
colours,  such  as  orange-zest,  coffee,  or  half  an  ounce  of 
grated  chocolate. 

No.  1007.-STRAWBERBY  DROPS. 

To  eight  ounces  of  coarse-sifted  sugar  add  two  ounces 
of  scarlet  strawberries ;  stir  this  on  the  fire  until  the 
composition  becomes  heated  almost  to  the  simmering 
point,  and  then  proceed  to  lay  out  the  drops  as  directed 
in  the  preceding  number. 

Note, — Fruit  pastilles,  or  drops,  may  be  prepared  in 
great  variety,  by  using  two  ounces  of  the  thick  juice 
of  any  kind  of  fruit  added  to  the  eight  ounces  oi 
Bup^ar. 


boubeesbpeb's  and  butleb's  assistant.         429 


No.  1008.— PUNCH  DROPS. 

eight  ounces  of  coarse-sifted  sugar  add  some 
;e-zest,  and  a  small  wineglassful  of  rum;  proceed 
3  usual  way. 

No.  1009.-CHOCOLATE  BON-BONS. 

half  a  pound  of  course-sifted  sugar  add  two  ounces 
e  finest  French  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  wineglass- 
:"  water  in  a  separate  boiler  or  stewpan,  and  after 
ig  this  with  the  sugar  in  its  boiler,  stir  on  the  fiie 
it  arrives  at  almost  simmering  heat ;  and  lay  out 
rops  of  the  size  of  a  sixpenny-piece. 

No.  1010.— COFFEE  BON-BONS. 

•  half  a  pound  of  sugar  add  a  small  cup  of  very 
g  coflfee  ;  boil  to  the  snap,  and  then  stir  in  a  very 
more  coflfee,  and  continue  working  the  composition 
e  side  of  the  pan  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  about 
ainutes,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  pour  it 
ipon  an  oiled  baking-sheet,  and  allow  it  to  be  about 
ixth  of  an  inch  thick ;  and  when  it  becomes  set — 
before  it  cools,  with  the  back  of  the  blade  of  a 
I,  mark  it  out  in  oblong  squares,  measuring  one 
by  half  an  inch  ;  when  the  bon-bons  are  quite  cold, 
will  easily  be  snapped  apart. 

No.  1011.— LEMON  CARAMEL. 

il  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  snap,  and  then  continue 
ng  it  over  a  very  slow  fire  until  it  gradually  as- 
8  a  very  light-brown  tint ;  then  add  by  degrees  a 
L  quantity  of  any  kind  of  liqueur  or  essence,  or  fruit 
,  or  coflfee,  &c. ;  work  together,  and  pour  out  the  com 
ion  on  a  slightly-oiled  baking-sheet ;  mark,  or  stamj» 
lie  caramel  with  a  knife  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
ber,  and  when  cold,  separate  them.  It  is  most 
dr  to  use  oil  of  almonds  for  this  purpose 


130  THi  COOK'S  aun>a,  amd 

No.  1012— CHEBRY  RINGS. 

Put  a  pound  of  the  finest  loafHsngar  into  a  boiler  with 
just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it,  and  while  it  is  boiling, 
be  careful  to  skim  it  thoroughly ;  add  a  teaspoonfbl  of 
wood- vinegar,  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal ;  boil  to  the 
snap,  and  then,  after  the  first  heat  has  subsided,  pour 
the  sugar  out  upon  a  clean  marble  slab  previously  veiy 
slightly  oiled  with  oil  of  almonds,  and  continue  work- 
ing the  sugar  with  two  dinner-knives,  one  in  each  hand, 
so  as  to  bring  the  bulk  constantly  together  in  a  piled-up 
form;  and  when  the  sugar  has  thrown  off  its  heat 
sufficiently  to  enable  you  to  handle  it  without  burning 
yourself^  very  slightly  oil  your  fingers,  gather  up  the 
sugar  in  your  hands,  and  pull  it  out  to  half  a  yard's 
length ;  join  the  end^  together,  and  keep  on  stretching 
out  the  sugar  in  this  manner  until  it  assumes  a  bright, 
glassy,  delicate-pink  surface,  and  then,  as  it  is  poUad 
out  in  narrow  strips,  cut  these  about  three  inches  long  ; 
twist  and  join  the  ends  together,  so  as  to  form  them  into 
rings. 

Note, — In  order  to  be  successfiil  in  this  operation,  it 
is  essential  to  be  perfectly  collected,  and  veiy  active. 

No.  1013.— BARLEY-SUGAR 

Boil  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  snap ;  add  a  few  drope  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid ;  work 
the  sugar  on  the  slab  with  two  knives,  by  merely  lift- 
ing it  tc^ther  in  a  heap  ;  and  when  sufficiently  cooled 
to  admit  of  its  being  handled,  pull  it  out  in  six-iiKi 
lengths ;  twist  these  to  resemble  cord,  and  place  then 
Dut  of  hand  to  cool. 


houbbkbbpbb's  and  botlxb's  assistant.         48] 


CHAPTER  XXXVII. 

AMERICAN  DRINKS. 


No.  1014.-GIN-SLING. 

Put  two  slices  of  lemon,  and  three  lumps  of  loaf-sugar 
into  a  tumbler,  fill  up  to  the  brim  with  shaves  of  Wen- 
ham  Lake  ice ;  add  a  wineglassful  of  old  gin ;  stir,  and 
suck  through  a  straw. 

Note. — 1  am  afraid  that  veiy  genteel  persons  will  be 
exceedingly  shocked  at  the  words  "suck  through  a 
straw;'*  but  when  I  tell  them  that  the  very  act  of 
imbibition  through  a  straw  prevents  the  gluttonous 
absorption  of  large  and  baneful  quantities  of  drink,  they 
will,  1  make  no  doubt,  accept  the  vulgar  precept  for  the 
sake  of  its  protection  against  sudden  inebriety. 

No.  1015.— BRANDY-SMASH. 

Pat  three  slices  of  lemon  in  a  tumbler  with  a  few 
tdioes  of  pine-apple,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sifted 
sugar ;  fill  up  with  shaved  Wenham  Lake  ice,  or  with 
any  other  clean  ice ;  add  a  wineglass  of  brandy ;  mix, 
and  drink  devoutly. 

No.  1016.-COCK.TAIL. 

Put  three  lumps  of  sugar  into  a  tumbler  with  a  dessert- 
aooonful  of  Savory  and  Moore's  essence  of  Jamaica- 
gmger,  and  a  wineglassful  of  brandy ;  fill  up  with  hot 
wat«T. 


182  THS  O0OK*8  QUIDI^  ABB 

No.  1017.— SHERRY  GOBLER. 

Three  slices  of  orange,  a  spoonful  of  coarse-siftod 
sugar,  fill  up  the  tumhler  with  shaved  ioe;  add  two 
glasses  of  sherry. 

No.  1018.— MINT  JULEP. 

The  thin  rind  of  half  an  orange,  the  whole  juice  free 
from  pips,  and  a  sprig  of  green  mint,  a  spoonful  of 
sugar;  fill  up  the  tumbler  with  shaves  of  ice;  add  a 
glass  of  gin  and  a  glass  of  sherry. 

No.  1019.— EGG  NOGG. 
Put  two  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  goblet  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  a  good  spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a 
teaspoonfnl  of  grated  ginger;  make  hot  a  pint  of  ale 
with  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  a  glass  of  rum ;  pour  gradu- 
ally to  the  yolks  of  eggs,  <fec.,  whisking  the  while  with 
a  wire  whisk ;  serve  hot,  and  frothing. 

No.  1020.— SLEEPER. 
To  a  gill  of  old  mm  add  one  ounce  of  sugar,  two 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  boil  half 
a  pint  of  water  with  six  cloves,  six  coriander-seeds, 
and  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  whisk  all  together,  and  strain 
them  into  a  tumhler. 

No.  1021.— INSTITUTION  CUP. 
A  pint  of  champagne,  a  gill  of  pine-apple  syrup,  a 
gill  of  strawberry  syrup,  an  orange  cut  in  slices,  a  glass 
of  brand3%  and  a  tumbler  of  shaved  ice  ;  shake  together, 
and  strain  short  into  tumblers. 

No.  1022.— PINE-APPLE  JULEP. 

Peel,  slice,  and  cut  up  a  ripe  pine-apple  into  a  glass 
bowl,  add  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  a  gQl  of  raspberry- 
s>rup,  a  gill  of  maraschino,  a  gill  of  old  gin,  a  bottle  of 
£>parkling  moselle,  and  about  a  pound  of  Wenham  Lake 
ice  iu  J. haves ;  mix,  and  serve  in  flat  glasses. 


H0USSKXBP9B*8  AND  BUTLBB'B  ASSISTAirr.  483 

No.  1023.— LOOOMOTIVB. 

it  two  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  goblet,  with  an  ounce  of 
y,  a  little  essence  of  cloves,  and  a  liqiienr-glass  of 
^a ;  add  a  pint  of  high  Burgundy  made  hot,  whisk 
together,  and  serve  hot  in  glasses. 

No.  1024.— PONEY  PUNCH. 

gill  of  rum,  a  gill  of  brandy,  a  small  glass  of  rack, 
tcupful  of  strong-made  gunpowder  tea,  the  juice  of 
3  lemons,  the  rind  of  one,  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of 
amon,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  bottle  of  chablis  made 
and  half  a  pint  of  syrup;  mix,  strain,  and  hand 
d  in  small  glasses. 

^e, — This  may  be  served  hot,  or  liquid,  frozen 
Larly  to  granito ;  in  the  latter  case,  the  dose  of  syrup 
t  be  doubled. 

No.  1025.— NIGHTCAP. 

alf  a  pint  of  strong  ale,  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  a 
drops  of  essence  of  cloves,  four  lumps  of  sugar; 
e  hot,  drink  slowly — and  make  haste  into  bed. 

No.  1026.— KNICKERBOCKER. 

ix  a  shilling's  worth  of  lemon  ice  from  the  confec- 
er's  with  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  and  a  pint  of  iced 
5er-water. 

No.  1027.— SIFTER. 

[alf  a  gill  of  whisky,  a  table  spoonful  of  honey,  half 
11  of  strawberry-  syrup  (or  twenty  of  the  fruit),  the 
e  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  tumbler  of  shaved  ice; 
.  If  strawberry  fruit  is  used,  it  must  be  bruised 
1  the  honey,  and  the  whole  strained. 

No.  1028  — FLOSTER. 

.  gill  of  pale  sherry,  half  a  gill  of  noyeau,  six  p^acli 
68,  three  slices  of  a  lemon,  an  ounce  of  sugar,  a  bottle 
:;ed  soda-water,  and  a  piece  of  ice. 

2   F 


434  THi  00OK8  wjnm,  amd 

Na  1029.-CHING-GHIHG. 

A  gill  of  old  mm,  a  slioed  oian^,  a  few  drops  o( 
eMe&oe  of  cloves,  ditto  oi  peppenmnti  four  Inmpfi  of 
sugar,  a  tumblerfdl  of  BbaTed  ice ;  mix. 


No.  1080.— 8T.  GHA&LEa 

A  shilling's  worth  of  cherry-water  ioe  from  the  con- 
fectioner's, mixed  with  a  small  ^aas  of  kirsdi,  and  « 
bottle  of  iced  soda-water. 


HoasmiPaB'g  and  butlhb'b  assistant.         135 


OHAPTER  XXX  Vm. 
HNGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  SUIOIEB  DRINKS. 


No.  1031.— ORANGEADE. 

Steicp  the  thin  rind  of  three  oroDges  in  a  pint  of 
symp  (made  with  twelve  oiinoes  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of 
water) ;  squeeze  the  juice  of  twelve  oranges  through  a 
oLean  hair  sieve  into  a  jug;  add  the  syrup  and  three 
i^tB  of  spring-water ;  mix,  and  cool  in  ice  for  an  hour. 
When  about  to  use  ihe  orangeade,  decant  it  in  cut- 
glass  bottles,  or  jugs,  and  hand  rotund  in  large  claret 
glasses. 

No.  1032.— LEMONADE. 

The  juice  of  six  lemons,  the  thin  rind^of  two,  a  pint 
and  a  quarter  of  syrup  of  32  degrees'  strength,  by 
Adams'  syrup-gauge  (see  Illustrations),  and  three  pints 
of  spring- water ;  mix  in  a  pitcher  imbedded  in  ice,  and 
after  it  has  stood  for  a  couple  of  hours,  strain  through  a 
silk  sieve,  and  serve  as  above. 

Note. — A  cheaper  kind  of  lemonade  is  obtained  by 
sUcing  two  lemons  into  a  jug,  adding  four  ounces  of 
sagar,  and  pouring  a  quart  of  boiling  water  on  them. 

No.  1033.— CHERRY  WATER. 

Pick  two  pounds  of  ripe  red  cherries,  bruise  them 
through  a  coarse  hair  sieve  into  a  lai^  basin,  or  upon  a 
dish;  pound  the  stones  in  a  mortar,  add  this  to  the 
jvice,  throw  half  a  pint  of  spring-water  on  the  sieve  in 

2  F  2 


486  THB  cook's  oun>a,  ahd 

order  to  avoid  wasting  the  juice ;  add  a  pint  of  syrop, 
mix,  and  when  the  whole  has  steeped  for  a  couple  oi 
hours,  filter  through  a  hair  sieve  resting  upon  two  stids 
placed  across  a  hasin,  putting  back  through  the  sieve 
that  which  passes  first  until  it  runs  bright ;  and  when  all 
has  drained  through,  add  half  a  pint  of  spring-water  in 
order  to  wash  the  dregs ;  and  as  soon  as  this  also  has 
passed,  mix  all  together ;  add  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  if 
needed,  and  a  quart  of  spring-water.  Cool  in  ice  for 
an  hour  and  an  half. 

No.  1034.-CURRANT  WATEB. 

Pick  a  pound  of  red  currants,  and  a  punnet  of  rasp- 
berries, into  a  basin ;  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  bruise  all 
together  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  put  this  into  a  small  pre- 
serving-pan with  half  a  pound  of  bruised  loaf-sugar ;  stir 
this  on  me  fire  till  it  begins  to  simmer,  and  then  pour  it 
into  a  hair  sieve  as  in  the  preceding  case ;  and  when 
filtered,  add  three  gills  of  syrup  and  tluee  pints  of  water; 
mix ;  £reeze  or  cool,  and  decant  for  service. 

No.  1035.-8TRAWBERRY  WATER. 

Braise  a  pound  of  red  strawberries  with  half  a  pound 
of  finely-siflted  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  spring- water ; 
filter  tlus  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin ;  add  a  quart  of 
spring-water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  cool  in  the  usual 
way. 

No.  1036.— ORGEATE,  OR  ALMOND  MILE. 

Two  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds,  half  an  ounce  of 
bitter,  scalded,  freed  from  their  hulls,  washed,  and 
pounded  with  a  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water, 
and  two  ounces  of  loaf-sugar;  a  few  drops  of  water 
should  be  added  at  intervals  while  pounding,  to  prevent 
the  almonds  from  becoming  oily, — an  accident  to  be 
avoided,  as  it  would  grease  the  milk ;  when  the  almonds 
are  pulverised  into  a  smooth  creamy  pulp,  take  this  up 
silver  clean  basin,  add  a  pint  of  spring-water,  stir  with 
A  silver  spoon,  cover  over  with  a  plate,  and  allow  the 


HOUSEEnPBB'S  AND  BTTTLBB'S  A8SI8TAHT.  437 

whole  to  steep  for  a  couple  of  hours ;  the  milk  may  then 
be  strained  otiT,  and,  if  possible,  kept  in  ice ;  it  must  cer- 
tainly be  kept  in  a  very  cool  place,  for 'otherwise  it  is 
liable  to  turn  sour. 

Note, — When  about  to  serve  the  orgeate,  it  should  be 
mixed  with  equal  proportions  of  water. 

No.  1037.— PmE-APPLE  WATER. 

Peel,  slice,  and  pound  an  eighteenpenny  foreign  pine, 
until  well  pulped ;  take  this  up  into  a  basin,  pour  in  a 
pint  of  boiling  syrup ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stir  to- 
gether, cover  over  with  a  plate,  and  wnen  the  whole  has 
steeped  for  a  couple  of  hours,  filter  through  a  silk  sieve, 
or  beaver  jelly-bs^;  add  a  quart  of  spring-water. 

No.  1038.— CLARET  GRANTTO. 

Prepare  half  the  quantity  of  orangeade  named  in 
No.  1031 ;  add  a  bottle  of  French  claret;  freeze  as  re- 
commended for  granite. 

No.  1039.— SHERRY  GRANITO. 

This  is  prepared  similarly  to  the  preceding,  merely 
substituting  lemon-ice  for  orange,  and  sherry  for  claret. 

No.  1040.- POMEGRANATE  WATER.     . 

Procure  six  pomegranates,  and  carefiilly  remove  the 
ruby  pips  from  the  hull  of  the  fruit  into  a  basin ;  and 
when  this  is  effected,  add  twelve  ounces  of  roughly- 
pounded  sugar;  thoroughly  bruise  all  together;  add  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  water,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  a 
few  drops  of  cochineal ;  mix,  and  filter  through  a  silk 
sieve,  or  beaver  jelly- bag.  The  addition  of  a  few  drops 
of  essence  of  elder-flowers  is  an  improvement. 

No.  1041.— GIN  PUNCH. 

Half  a  pint  of  old  gin,  a  gill  of  maraschino,  the  juice 

of  two  lemons,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  four  ounces  of 

[       "yrup,  a  quart  bottle  of  German  seltzer-water ;  ice  well. 


48H  THE  cook's  6UIDX,  AlO) 

No.  1042.— MILK  PUKCH. 

Put  the  followiBg  ingredients  into  a  very  clean  pi^ 
Cher :  viz., — the  juice  of  six  lemons,  the  rind  of  two,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  an  eighteenpenny  pine-apple — ^peeled, 
sliced,  and  poimded ;  six  cloves,  twenty  coriander-seeds, 
a  snudl  stick  of  cinnamon,  one  pint  of  brandy,  ditto  of 
nun,  a  gill  of  rack,  a  breakfast-cup  of  strong-made  green 
tea,  and  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  the  boiling  water  to 
be  added  last;  cork  this  down  to  prevent  evaporation, 
and  allow  these  ingredients  to  steep  for  at  least  six  houni ; 
then  add  a  quart  of  hot  milk,  and  the  juice  of  liwo 
lemons ;  mix,  and  filter  through  a  clean  beaver  jelly-bag; 
and  when  the  punch  has  passed  bright,  put  it  away  in 
clean  tight-corked  bottles.     This  punch  is  intended  to 
be  iced  for  drinking ;  either  after  turtle  soup  or  othe^ 
wise.    I  confess  that,  in  my  opinion,  a  glass  of  genuine  old 
madeira  is  far  preferable  after  turtle  to  any  doyiog 
beverage— such  as  Boman  punch  for  instance;  but^  eaat 
of  Temple  Bar,  epicures  seem  to  be  of  an  opposite  my 
of  thinking  in  the  matter 


HOUtUUUUtfMt'B  AND   BITTLIB'S  A88I8TAMT.  4M 


CHAPTEB  XXXT7C. 

GBEAM  ICES. 


No.  1048.— GINGER  OBEAM  lOE. 

NT  of  milk  boiled,  added  to  six  yolks  of  eggs,  eight 
)eB  of  sugar,  four  ounoes  of  preserved  ginger  out 
I,  its  sjrap,  and  a  teaspoonfid  of  essence,  or  ground 
)er ;  stir  this  on  the  fire  until  it  slightly  thickens ;  it 
b  i^k&n  be  removed,  and  stirred  for  a  few  minutes 
er ;  and  when  cold,  frozen  in  the  usual  manner. 

No.  1044.— BBOWN  BREAD  IGR 

i-epare  eight  ounces  of  brown  bread-orumbs,  and  dry 
I  in  the  screen ;  whip  a  pint  of  double  cream ;  add 
)unces  of  sifted  sugar,  a  wineglassful  of  any  kind  of 
eur,  or  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  orange,  &c. ;  mix, 
freeze. 

No.  1045.— APRICOT  CREAM  ICE. 

oil  ten  ripe  apricots  with  six  ounoes  of  sugar  and  a 
of  water ;  and  when  dissolved,  rub  through  a  hair 
e ;  add  the  pulp  to  a  plain  custard  made  with  half  a 
of  milk,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  and  two  ounoes  of  sugar ; 
ze  as  usual. 

eaches  or  any  kind  of  plums  are  treated  in  the  samf 
iner. 


440  THB  cook's  quid*,  abb 


No.  1046.— PINE-APPLE  CBEAM  ICE. 

Peel,  slice  up,  and  boil  abont  twelve  ounces  of  pine 
in  a  gill  of  water,  with  eight  ounces  of  sugar ;  pound 
the  pieces  of  pine,  mix  them  to  their  syrup,  and  mb 
this  through  a  hair  sieve ;  mix  the  pulp  with  a  custard, 
as  directed  in  the  preceding  case. 

No.  1047.— STBAWBEBBT  CBEAM  ICE. 

Bruise  a  pound  of  picked  strawberries  with  ei^t 
ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  and  rub  this  through  a  hair 
sieve ;  add  the  pulp  to  a  pint  of  cream,  and,  if  needed,  t 
few  drops  of  cochineal ;  freeze,  and  mould. 

No.  1048.— CUBRANT  AND  RASPBEBBY  CBEAM  ICK. 

Pick  and  bruise  a  pound  of  red  currants  and  half  t 
pound  of  raspberries,  with  ten  ounces  of  loaf-sugar;  stir 
this  in  a  sugar-boiler  on  the  fire  until  it  b^ins  to  biid- 
mer,  and  then  rub  the  whole  through  a  hair  sieve ;  mix 
the  pulp  with  a  pint  of  drouble  cream ;  freeze  and  mould 
the  ice. 

No.  1049.— GOOSEBEBBY  FOOL. 

Pick  and  boil  a  pound  of  green  gooseberries  in  half  i 
pint  of  water  with  ten  ounces  of  sugar ;  rub  this  through 
a  hair  sieve,  colour  the  pulp  with  a  spoonful  of  spinach 
greening,  No.  72 ;  add  a  pint  of  double  cream,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel ;  mix,  freeze,  and  ihoTild. 
Gooseberry  fool  is  generally  served  in  a  glass  bowl,  or 
in  custard  cups  or  glasses. 

No.  1050.— COFFEE  CBEAM  ICK 

To  eight  yolks  of  eggs  add  a  large  cup  of  strong- 
made  coffee,  a  pint  of  boiled  milk,  and  eight  ounces  of 
sugar ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  are  set  io 


H0U8BKBBPBB*B  AND   BUTLEb'b  ASSISTANT.  441 

Team,  and  then  strain  the  custard  throngh  a  haii 
;  add  half  a  pint  of  double  cream ;  freeze  and  mould 
se. 

No.  1051.— CHOCOLATE  CREAM  ICE. 

is  is  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the  preceding, 
>ting  that  six  ounces  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  a 
of  hot  water  must  be  substituted  for  the  cup  of 


No.  1352.— ICED  SOUFFLE. 

spare  fourteen  yolks  of  eggs,  three  gills  of  strong 
>  32  degrees  strength,  and  a  gill  of  maraschino ; 
some  hot  water  into  a  copper  egg-bowl  to  warm  it, 
having  throvm  it  out,  wipe  the  bowl  dry;  then 
in  the  syrup  and  liqueur,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
r  the  yolks ;  whisk  the  composition  over  a  low  fire 
"ed  with  ashes,  until  it  presents  the  appearance  of 
f  cake  batter ;  it  must  then  be  removed  from  the 
md  continuously  whisked  until  nearly  cold, 
lile  the  foregoing  part  of  the  operation  is  going  on, 
•eady  a  souflfl^-dish  (see  Angell's  Illustrations),  or 
a  paper-case  of  similar  dimensions,  closely  sur- 
ied  with  a  band  of  paper  rising  two  inches  above 
ining  of  the  souffle-dish  or  paper-case,  and  fastened 
gum  or  pins ;  pour  the  ready-prepared  scuma  or 
16  composition  into  this,  to  the  extent  of  two  inches 
e  the  edge  of  the  dish  itself:  the  souffle-dish  must 
ady  set  in  one  of  Adams*  Freezing  Caves  (see  Adams' 
trations),  and  as  soon  as  it  is  filled,  and  the  cave 
red  over,  bury  the  whole  in  ice  mixed  with  salt 
saltpetre ;  about  two  hours'  freezing  will  be  suffl- 
t.  When  about  to  send  to  table,  strew  some  light- 
Ti  bii^uit  powder  on  the  surface  of  the  souffle, 
)ve  the  band  of  paper  which  mns  round  it,  and  dish 
n  a  napkin.  ' 

liese  souffles  may  be  flavoured  with  all  kinds  of 
durs,  and  also  with  coffee,  chocolate,  orange-flower 
ir,  vanilla,  &c. 


442  THl  €K>0K*8  CnnDI,  AKD 

No.  1053.~IGED  BISCUITS. 
The  preparation  for  these  is  the  same  as  for  8oii£B^ 
and  is  to  be  poured  into  small  paper-cases,  which  are  tc 
be  iced  in  the  cave  imbedded  in  roogh  ioe. 

No.  1054.— ICED  BOKBE. 

For  this  purpose  it  is  necessary  to  prooure  »  bombe- 
mould  (see  Adams'  Illnstrations),  that  is,  a  ronnd  monld 
formed  of  two  half  globes  which  fit  into  each  other;  or, 
failing  this,  any  iced  pndding-monld  will  snit  as  welL 
While  the  composition,  the  same  as  for  sonffl^  is  in 
course  of  preparation,  the  mould  must  be  placed  retdy 
in  the  ice,  in  order  that  when  the  cream  is  poured  into 
it,  it  may  be  instantly  acted  upon  by  the  refrigeimtiiig 
power  of  the  ice;  it  must  then  be  imbedded  sad 
thoroughly  covered  in  with  more  ioe  mixed  with  saU 
and  saltpetre.  When  about  to  serve,  dip  the  mould  in 
cold  water,  wipe  it,  and  turn  the  bombe  out  upon  a 
napkin. 

No.  1055.— L0VE*8  CABTBIDGEa 

Procure  eighteen  ice-moulds,  the  interior  of  which  is 
made  to  represent  the  form  of  a  cartridge,  measuring 
two  and  a  half  inches  in  length  by  one  inch  in  dia- 
meter ;  whip  a  pint  and  a  half  of  double  cream  quite 
firm;   flavour  uiis  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Strang 
vanilla  sugar,  and  use  it  to  fill  the  cartzidge-nionlds ; 
put  on  the  lids,  and  immerse  them  in  ice  lor  an  hour; 
at  the  expiration  of  this  time,  remove  them,  one  ti,  t 
time,  from  the  ice ;  dip  one  end  in  cold  water  to  take  of 
the  lid ;  run  a  round  wooden  stick  half  an  inch  in  dia- 
meter down  the  centre  of  the  iced-cream,  and  fill  op 
this  hollow  with  grated  chocolate ;  put  the  lid  on  aguo, 
and  as  the  remainder  are  treated  in  the  same  way,  mi 
them  in  a  fresh  tub  of  prepared  ice,  which  most  be 
ready  to  receive  them.     When  about  to  serve,  turn  <* 
the  cartridges  from  their  moulds  with  cold  water,  and 
dish  them  up  in  a  conical  form,  upon  a  laoe-papff  cat 
oapkin. 


flOUSBKlBXPBfi  8  AMD  BUTLBB'S  A88I8TAMT.  448 

No.  1066.— TUTTIFBUTTL 

Prepare  the  following  ingredients :  viz.» — one  ounoe 
cf  slured  pistachios,  ditto  of  dried  cherries,  ditto  of 
dtron,  ditto  of  candied  orange-peel,  ditto  of  chocolate 
drops,  all  these  fruits  are  to  be  cut  in  very  small  dice  : 
prepare  also  two  whites  of  eggs  of  meringue-paste,  and 
hall  a  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Make  a  liquid  custard 
wiUi  ten  yolks  of  eggs,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  and  when  the  custard  has  been  set  oi\ 
the  fire,  and  has  become  cold,  proceed  to  freeze  it  firm, 
working  it  with  the  spatula  occasionally ;  then  add  the 
meringue-paste,  and  a  gill  of  maraschino,  and  a  few 
drops  of  essence  of  cinnamon ;  work  these  in,  twirling 
the  freezer  round  the  while ;  and  as  the  ice  sets  again, 
add  the  fruit,  and  lastly  the  whipped  cream;  mould  the 
ice  in  the  usual  way. 

No.  1057.— PLOMBIEBES  lOK 

Make  a  liquid  custard  with  the  following  igredients : 
viz., — a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiled  milk,  six  ounces  of 
Jordan,  and  one  ounce  of  bitter-almonds,  well  pulped  in 
a  mortar;  six  ounces  of  apricot  jam,  and  ten  yolks  of 
eggB ;  stir  the  custard  on  the  fire  to  set  the  yolks,  and 
rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  on  a  dish ;  and  when  cold, 
freeze  the  plombi^res,  and  mould  it  with  some  apricot 
jam  in  the  centre. 

No.  1058.— lOED  PUDDING  A  LA  NESSELRODE. 

Prepare  the  following  ingredients:  viz., — pick  two 
ounces  of  sxQtana  raisins,  ditto  of  mixed  candied-peel 
shred  fine,  one  ounce  of  cleaned  currants,  four  ounces 
of  pine  apple,  and  one  ounce  of  angelica;  put  these 
ingredients  in  a  basin  with  a  gill  of  maraschino,  and  set 
them  aside.  Prepare  a  liquid  custard  with  a  pint  of 
hoiled  milk,  the  syrup  from  the  pine,  a  bruised  stick  of 
vanilla,  twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  four  oimces  of  chestnut 
brina  (Crosse  and  Blackwell's),  and  ten  yolks  of  eggs ; 


444  THE  cook's  guide,  and 

set  the  custard  over  the  fire,  and  nib  it  throui 
sieve.  Freeze  the  custard  in  the  usual  way, 
set  firm,  add  the  fruit ;  freeze  again,  working 
ding  virith  the  spatula ;  and  lastly,  add  half 
whipped  cream :  mould  the  pudding  in  an  ice( 
mould  (see  Adams'  Illustrations),  and  imbed  it 
a  couple  of  hours.  When  about  to  send  to  t 
the  pudding  out  on  its  dish,  and  serve  separai 
of  whipped  cream  mixed  with  half  a  gill  of  ma 


AOUfOnEUPXB  6  AND    BUTLIBlB  ASSISTANT. 


CHAPTER  XL. 

MEDICINAL  DBIKES.  &o. 

Ladies  need  feel  no  appreLension  in  the  use  of  these 
medicinal  drinks,  inasmuoh  as  I  have  availed  myself 
^f  the  aid  and  advice  of  a  celebrated  chemist  TMr. 
Savory  of  Bond  Street,  London)  to  assist  me  in  tneir 
oomposition. 

No.  1059.— HOP-TEA. 

^  Put  half  an  ounce  of  hops  into  a  covered  jug ;  pour  a 

^ijit  of  boiling  water  to  this ;  put  the  lid  on  and  allow  the 

Infusion  to  stand  until  quite  cold  ;  the  tea  must  then  be 

^Cantered  off  into  a  water-bottle,  and  should  be  drunk 

-sting. 

The  dose  should  not  exceed  a  gill,  which  will  have 
e  effect  of  creating  a  natural  appetite,  and  will  also 
id  to  improve  and  strengthen  the  digestive  organs. 

No.  1060.— LINSEED  TEA. 

^o  half  an  ounce  of  linseed  put  into  a  jug,  pour  a 

*.  of  boiling  water,  allow  the  infusion  to  stand  for 

an  hour,  and  then  decanter  off  the  tea  into  another 

sweeten  with  honey,  and  flavour  with  a  few  drops 

ange-flower  water ;  but  it  must  he  understood  that 

general  way  it  is  best  to  drink  this  tea  in  its  natural 

mucilaginous,  emollient,  soothing,  aperitive,  and 


446  THK  OOOK'8  OUIDl^  AMD 

diuretic  qualities  of  linseed^  when  adminlBtered  as  • 
drink,  whether  fasting  or  otherwise,  render  its  nse  IkA 
safe  and  efficacions  in  all  cases  when  the  object  is  to 
afford  alleviation  to  the  sufferings  of  the  gunly,  asUmuk 
tical,  &c. 

No.  1061.— LIME-FLOWEB  TEA. 

To  half  an  ounce  of  lime-flowers  pour  one  pint  of  boil 
ing  water ;  allow  the  tea  to  stand  for  about  t^  minutes, 
pour  it  into  a  cup,  sweeten  with  honey,  and  drink  it 
perfectly  hot. 

This  tea,  from  its  antispasmodic  qualities,  is  a  safe 
remedy  in  cases  of  indigestion,  and  is  also  beneficiAl 
when  administered  for  hysteria. 

No.  1062.— MABSH-MALLOW  WATER. 

Soak  one  ounce  of  marshmallow  roots  in  a  little  cold 
water  for  half  an  hour ;  peel  off  the  bark,  or  skin ;  cut  up 
the  roots  into  small  shavings,  and  put  them  into  a  jug; 
pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  allow  the  infnision 
to  stand  for  a  couple  of  hours ;  the  decoction  must  be 
drunk  tepid,  and  may  be  sweetened  with  honey  or 
sugar-candy,  and  flavoured  with  orange-flower  water,  or 
with  orange-juice. 

Marshmallow  water  may  be  used  with  good  effect  in 
all  cases  of  inveterate  coughs,  catarrhs,  &c. 

No.  1063.— VIOLET  TEA. 

One  teaspoonfol  of  dried  violets  to  half  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water — five  minutes'  infusion ;  sweeten  with  honey. 

Violet-tea  assuages  pain,  and  tends  to  soothe  the 
system  when  suffering  under  attacks  of  bronchitis, 
eruptive  fevers,  chronical  catarrhs,  ifec. 

No.  1064.— INFUSION  OF  ROSES. 

Infuse  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  red  rose-leaves  in  hall 
a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes ;  decant,  sweeten 
with  honey,  and  drink  cold — fasting.  This  drink  recom- 
mends itself  by  its  efiScacy  in  diminishing — if  not  en* 


HOUSXKEXPBB  8  AND  BUTLIB  8  ASSISTANT.  447 

rely  Temovisg— certain  cases  of  debility  common  to 
tmales.  The  conserve  of  roses  is  much  used  on  the 
ontinent,  in  the  snccessful  treatment  of  pnhnonary 
iseases. 

No.  1065.— CAMOMILE  TEA. 

Two  dozen  flowers  infused  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
»r  half  an  hour;  decant,  sweeten  with  honey,  and 
rink  half  a  gill — fasting. 

Camomile-tea,  when  not  taken  in  too  strong  doses, 
om  its  tonic  and  antispasmodic  qualities,  strengthens 
le  digestive  organs,  and  tends  actively  to  dispel 
^Bpepsia. 

Ko.  1066.— ICELAND  MOSS  JELLY. 

Wash  four  ounces  of  Iceland  moss  in  some  warm 
ater,  strain  off  the  water,  and  put  the  moss  on  to  boil 
.  a  quart  of  water,  stirring  it  on  the  Are  until  it  boils ; 
must  then  be  removed  to  the  side,  covered  over, 
id  allowed  to  simmer  gently  for  an  hour;  then  add 
ur  oxmces  of  sugar,  a  gill  of  sherry,  the  juice  of  two 
mons,  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  white  of  egg 
hisked  with  half  a  gill  of  cold  water ;  stir  the  jelly 
L  the  Are  until  it  boils,  and  pour  it  into  a  fltmnel 
Uybag;  when  passed  tolerably  clear,  it  may  be  taken 
arm,  in  which  state  it  is  most  beneficial,  or  it  may  be 
Aen  cold  like  any  other  jelly. 

It  is  necessary  to  add,  that  washing  the  moss  deprives 
of  its  tonic  powers ;  and  it  is  therefore  recommended 
•  put  up  with  the  bitter  taste  for  the  sake  of  its  benefit. 
»land  moss  is  very  generally  used  on  the  Continent 
L  the  treatment  of  consumption ;  it  is  most  active  in 
\e  cure  of  severe  coughs,  and  all  phlegmatic  diseases 
'  the  chest. 

No.  1067.— HYSSOP  TEA. 

Infuse  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  dried  hj'^ssop  flowers 
I  a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes;  sweeten 
ith  honey,  and  take  a  wineglassful  three  times  a  day, 
ir  debility  of  the  chest  It  is  also  considered  a  power- 
d  vermifuge. 


448  noi  oooK*B  avwM,  akd 

No.  10C8.— SAFFBOir  TEA. 

A  pinch  of  saffron  infnsed  in  a  gill  of  hoi  water  fa 

ten  minutes,  and  strained  to  a  small  glass  of  qiiriti 

sweetened  with  sugar,  is  a  powerful  yet  hanuleas  snti- 

spasmodic.  

No.  10G9.— ORANGE-FLOWER  TEA. 

Two  pinches  of  orange  flowers  infosed  in  half  a  piit 
of  hoiling  water  for  five  minutes ;  strain  throngh  mnub 
sweeten  with  honey,  and  take  three  or  four  small  tea- 
cups full  in  the  course  of  the  day.  Either  the  flowen 
or  the  leaTes  of  the  orange-tree  used  for  malring  as 
infusion  as  above  are  antispasmodic,  stomachic,  tonic, 
a  febrifuge,  vermifuge,  and  sudorific. 

No.  1070.— MULBERRY  WATER. 

Bruise  a  pound  of  mulberries  with  six  ounces  of  rou^ 
sugar ;  add  a  pint  of  water,  mix,  and  filter  through  a 
silk  sieve. 

This  most  refreshing  drink,  which  contains  veiy  little 

acidity,  is  an  excellent  febrifuge,  and  is  also  good  for 

sore  throats. 

No.  107L— DANDELION  TEA. 

Infuse  one  ounce  of  dandelion  in  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  for  ten  minutes ;  decant,  sweeten  with  honer, 
und  drink  several  glasses  in  the  course  of  the  day. 

llie  use  of  this  tea  is  efficacious  in  bilious  affec- 
tions, and  is  also  much  approved  of  in  the  treatment  of 
droTwy. 

No.  1072.— A  GARGLE  FOR  SORE  THROAT. 

A  small  glass  of  port  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  Chili 
vinegar,  six  nage-leaves,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  honey ; 
himmer  together  on  the  fiiro  for  five  minutes. 

No.  1073.— A  WASH  TO  PREVENT  THE  WATlt  FROM 

FALLING  OFF. 

A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  unprepared  tobacco  leaves, 
two  ounce*  of   ro.vemary.  two  ounces  of  box  leaves^ 


HUXTSIKWEPKB's   and    BUTLBB'B  AS8I8TANT.  449 

tN>iled  in  a  quart  of  water  in  an  earthen  pipkin  with  a 
lid,  for  twenty  minutes ;  strain  and  use  this  wash  cold, 
by  applying  it  to  the  roots  of  the  hair  with  a  hair-brush 
oooaaioiiLally  during  the  summer  months. 

Ko.  1074.— BEPRESHING  DRINK  FOR  SORE  THROAT. 

Two  ounces  of  barberries,  half  an  ounce  of  violets, 
infused  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour; 
sweeten  with. honey;  decant,  and  drink  several  glasses 
during  the  day ;  strawberries  may  be  added  when  in 
season. 

No.  1075.— A  CURE  FOR  COLD  IN  THE  HEAD. 

Take  thirty  drops  of  sal  volatile  (camphorated  sal- 
volatile  preferred)  in  a  small  wineglassful  of  warm 
water  five  or  six  times  a  day. 

No.  1076.— A  CURE  FOR  BURNS  OR  SCALDS. 

Bruise  an.  onion  and  a  potato  in  a  mortar;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  salad-oil,  and  apply  this  pulp  to  the 
naked  bum  or  scald ;  secure  it  with  a  bandage. 

No.  1077.— A  CURE  FOR  SPRAINS. 

Bruise  a  handful  of  sage-leaves  and  boil  them  in  a 
gill  of  vinegar  for  five  minutes  ;  apply  this  in  a  folded 
napkin  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne  to  me  part  affected.* 

Nos.  1078-1079.— A  CURE  FOR  CHILBLAINS. 

The  pulp  of  a  baked  turnip  mixed  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  salad-oil,  ditto  of  mustard,  ditto  of  grated  horse- 
radish. 

No.  1080.— A  CURE  FOR  CRACKED  UPS  IN  WINTER. 

Any  chemist  will  prepare  for  you  a  salve  made  o^ 
equal  parts  of  tincture  of  red  roses,  the  mucilage  of 

2  o 


450  THX  COOK'S  GUIDB,  AMD 

qninoe-seeds,  and  Tirgin  wax ;  indeed,  yon  may  easily 
prepare  this  salve  for  yourself,  by  placing  the  above 
ingredients  in  a  clean  gallipot  coverod  with  a  lid  and 
placed  in  a  small  stewpan  contaiuing  hot  water  nearly 
reaching  half  way  up  the  side  of  the  gallipot,  and  allowed 
to  simmer  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  by 
which  time  the  wax  being  dissolved,  the  whole  should 
be  well  stirred  together,  and  when  cold,  applied  to  the 
lips  with  the  tip  of  the  finger. 

No.  1081.— A  CUBE  FOB  WABTS. 
The  bruised  leaves  of  the  calendula  officinalis  mixed 
with  a  few  drops  of  reduced  vinegar. 

No.  1082.— A  CUBE  FOB  THE  STING  OF  WASPS  OB 

BEES. 

A  bruised  leaf  of  the  poppy,  applied  to  the  part  af- 
fected, will  give  immediate  relief. 

No.  1083.— TO  STOP  BLEEDING  OF  THE  NOSE,  &c. 

A  handful  of  fresh-gathered  stinging-nettles  bruised 
in  a  mortar  with  as  much  water  as  will  hang  to  them 
when  dipped  in  water ;  when  thoroughly  reduced  to  a 
pulp,  extract  the  juice  by  wringing  it  out  through  a 
cloth,  and  apply  it  to  the  nose  by  injection. 

No.  1084.— A  DRINK  IHUCH  IN  USE  ON  THE  CONTINENT 
IN  THE  TBEATMENT  OF  TYPHUS  FEVER. 

Pbur  a  quart  of  boiling  water  upon  six  ounces  of  the 
root  of  angelica  cut  up  in  thin  slices,  four  ounces  of 
honey,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  half  a  gill  of  brandy ; 
half  an  hour's  infusion. 

No.  1085.— A  CURE  FOR  TOOTHACHE. 
A  small  piece  of  cotton-wadding  rolled  into  a  ball  of 
the  proper  size  to  fill  up  the  decayed  tooth,  and  merely 
dipped  sufficiently  to  saturate  it  in  a  small  quantity  of 
camphorated  chloroform ;  use  this  to  plug  the  hollow 
pail  of  the  acbln^s  tooth. 


housxksepbb's  and  btttlbb's  assistant.         451 

No.  1086.— A  CURE  FOR  CHAPPED  HANDa 

One  ounce  and  a  half  of  olive-oil,  one  ounce  of  sper- 
maceti, one  ounce  of  virgin  wax,  one  ounce  of  campnor, 
two  ounces  of  honey  ;  the  whole  of  these  ingredients  to 
be  placed  in  a  covered  basin,  which  is  to  be  placed  in  a 
Htewpan  containing  a  little  hot  water,  and  set  either  by 
the  ure  or  in  an  open  oven,  to  remain  there  until  dis- 
solved; the  whole  must  then  be  well  stirred  together 
until  quite  cold. 

No.  1087.— COLD  CREAM. 

Dissolve  four  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet-almonds  with 
four  ounces  of  spermaceti ;  pour  these  into  a  basin  con- 
taining four  ounces  of  rose-water,  and  use  a  very  clean 
whisk,  or  a  silver  fork,  to  beat  up  the  whole  into  a 
smooth  creamy  substance. 

No.  1088.— HOW  TO  MAKE  TEA 

First,  scald  the  inside  of  the  tea-pot  with  about  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  at  the  end  of  two  minutes, 
pour  this  out,  and  immediately  put  the  tea  in,  and  close 
the  lid,  in  order  that  the  steam  may  penetrate  through 
the  curled-up  leaves ;  at  the  end  of  two^  minutes,  add 
about  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  and  *when  the  tea 
has,  as  it  is  familiarly  termed,  stood  for  about  three 
minutes,  fill  up  the  tea-pot,  and  pour  out  a  well-made 
cup  of  tea. 

No.  1089.— HOW  TO  MAKE  COFFEE. 

The  simplest,  the  easiest,  and  most  effoctual  means 
whereby  to  produce  well-made  coifeo,  is  to  procure  one 
of  Adams*  Coffee  Percolators  (No.  67,  Hay  market, 
London) ;  put  the  coffee  in  the  well,  place  the  perforated 
pressor  upon  it,  and  then  pour  in  the  boiling  water 
gently  and  gradually,  until  the  quantity  required  is 
oompleted ;  put  the  lid  on  the  percolator,  and  set  it  by 
the  fire  to  run  through.     By  stnct  attention  to  the  fore* 

2  Q  2 


458  THB  oook's  quids,  and 

going  instructions  excellent  coffee  will  be  produoed  in  a 
few  minutes, — the  proportions  of  coffee  and  water  being, 
one  ounce  of  coffee  to  a  large  breakfast-cup  of  water. 

No.  1090— HOW  TO  EXTRACT  THE  OOLOUB  FBOH 

OOOmNEAL. 

Ingredients: — One  ounce  of  cochineal,  one  ounce  d 
salts  of  wormwood,  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  and 
one  ounce  of  Roche  alimi. 

First,  put  a  quart  of  spring-water  into  an  untinned 
copper  egg-bowl ;  add  eight  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  and  set 
this  on  ^e  fire  to  boil ;  then  add  the  cochineal  and  salts 
of  wormwood  (previously  well  pulverized  in  a  mortar), 
and  when  this  has  boiled  up,  add  the  cream  of  tartar ; 
stir  together  with  a  clean  wooden  spoon;  and  lasUy, 
throw  in  the  powdered  Boche  alum;  mix,  and  pass 
through  a  jelly-bag;  when  cold,  bottle  off,  oork  ti^t, 
and  keep  the  colouring  in  a  cold  place. 

Note, — The  ingredients  required  for  the  preparation  of 
cochineal  colouring  may  be  purchased  for  one  sliilling 
and  ninepence  at  any  chemist's ;  and  by  following  the 
foregoing  instructions,  as  much  colouring  will  be  pro- 
duced as  would  cost  two  guineas  if  bought  ready  pre- 
pared in  small  phials  from  grocers. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES, 


No.  l.-flOW  TO  PREPABK  CAUDLE. 

Mix  four  ounces  of  Robinson's  Patent  Groats  with 
half  a  pint  of  cold  ale,  pour  this  into  a  stewpan  contain- 
ing a  quart  of  hot  ale,  add  a  small  piece  of  braised 
ginger,  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  six  cloves,  stir 
the  caudle  over  the  fire  while  gently  boiling  for  ten 
minutes,  and  then  strain  it  off  free  from  the  spices,  into 
a  jug ;  add  sugar,  and  rum  or  brandy  to  taste. 


HOUSXKSXPEB  8  AND  BUTLXE8  ASSISTANT.  458 

Na  2.— BOYAL  POSSET  FOB  A  COLD. 

a  table-spoonful  of  Robinson's  Patent  Groats  with 
a  wine-glassfol  of  cold  water,  pour  this  into  a  stewpan 
containing  nearly  half  a  pint  of  ordinary  French  white 
wine,  sweeten  with  honey,  flaTour  with  a  few  drops  of 
essence  of  cloves,  or  failing  this,  a  few  cloves  will  do ;  stir 
the  posset  over  the  fire  while  boiling  for  six  minntes, 
and  drink  it  quite  hot  just  before  going  to  bed. 

Ko.  8.— HOW  TO  MAKE  GRUEL. 

Take  of  Bobinson's  Patent  Groats,  one  table-spoonM 
mixed  with  a  vmie-glassful  of  cold  water,  pour  this  into 
a  stewpan  containing  nearly  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
stir  the  gruel  on  the  nre  while  it  boils  for  ten  minutes ; 
poor  it  into  a  basin,  add  a  small  pat  of  butter,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  or  if  more  agreeable,  some  sugar,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  spirits  may  bo  added  instead  of  the 
batter  and  salt 

Note, — When  gruel  is  made  for  an  invalid,  and  if  the 
oonstitution  be  delicate,  the  butter  must  be  omitted. 

No.  4.— A  PUDDING  FOB  INFANTS. 

To  two  ounces  of  Robinson's  Patent  Barley  add  one 
ounce  of  sifted  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  nearly  a  pint  of  milk ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  stir 
it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils ;  then  add  two  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  bake  the  pudding  in  a  buttered  pie-dish. 

No.  5.— INFANTS'  FOOD. 

To  a  good  table-spoonful  of  Eobinson's  Patent  .Barley 
mixed  with  a  wine-glassful  of  cold  water,  add  one  and  a 
half  gills  of  boiling  water ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  while 
boiling  for  six  minutes,  and  then  feed  the  infant.  The 
same  proportion  of  milk  may  be  tused  instead  of  water, 
when  the  baby  is  weanud. 


454  rnXSKEMMTtK*  ASD  BCTUB*! 


I^  «ix  cTZLosA  cf  £cbis;soiL*s  Patent  Bukj  add  nx 
qtzzaXA  :( «if:e«i  «T:::«r.  ttj-x  brth  togedier  with  one  qvait 
cf  ziilkiz.  2»tevTaz.ihe=.addf3<iroiiiiceaof  finahbiittff, 
ft  pir*:^  •:;  sklt.  ibe  rizid  cf  a  lemon  mbbed  on  sngBvaDd 
\  wirrrcLi^ril  It  vri^kx.  Stir  the  whole  on  the  fire 
iziTil  h  CiiiLi.  Azi  ti-cTi  w:rk  the  batter  perfectly  smooth ; 
L>ext.  w:rk  izi  six  y  :l£«  'if  e^gs,  and  then  li^tlj  mix  in 
six  wLi:e:K  cf  €g;r^  wbi^k^ed  into  a  firm  froth ;  poor  the 
c^iritrr  in:o  a  >li^*i':lj  b^ittencd  pie-di^h,  and  bake  the 
^-■r  yr-y  in  LiL^i^r*Cc  heat. 


y.-.  7.— HOW  TO  MAKE  BAKLCT-WATEB. 

Take  of  Bobinson's  Parent  Barley  one  ounce  mixed 
with  a  win<--zLshai&f=l  cf  oold  water,  pour  this  into  a 
siewpan  coniAining  neariy  one  quart  of  boiling  water, 
stir  tills  over  the  nre  wiiile  boiling  for  fire  minnteB ; 
then  dAToar  wiUi  a  smaJl  bit  of  lemun-peel  or  cJTinamfln, 
ai.d  sweeten  according  to  taate. 

y-x-c. — When  the  above  Parent  Barley  is  used  to  make 
ft  sT::ar.-.er  bevera^,  only  hilt  an  omice  mn^x  be  nsed. 

Xa  s.— HOW  TO  PBEPARF.  A  SAVOURY  CC5TABD. 

T:*  cue  lable-spoonfal  cf  Eobin*.:Ti*5  Patent  Barley 
idi  rather  mi/re  than  half  a  pint  of  g:od  beef  tea ;  mix 
and  stir  over  the  fire  for  nve  minuit*,  and  yon  have  a 
lizht  vet  inviiroratinz  kind  of  f  _od  for  the  debilitated 
etomaoh.  wnich  in  its  results  will  prove  far  more  satis- 
£«ctcrv  than  anv  preparation  known. 

y^, — This  delicate  custard  may  also  be  advantage- 
ously prepared  with  brotiis  made  &om  mutton,  game,  or 
poaltzy. 


455 


FRANCATELLrS 

INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  THE  SERVICE  OF  WINES, 
DENorma  the  order  in  which  they  should  be 

DRUNK  AT  THE  DINNER-TABLE. 


The  judicious  service  of  wines  at  the  dinner-table  is 
essential  to  the  complete  success  of  a  well-ordered  and 
recherchS  dinner ;  for  on  the  manner  and  order  in  which 
this  service  is  conducted  will  chiefly  depend  the  more 
or  less  favourable  judgment  awarded  (independently  of 
their  real  claims  to  superiority)  to  the  wines  put  before 
the  guests. 

First,  let  it  be  remembered  that  all  possible  care 
should  be  taken  in  removing  the  bottles  from  their  bins, 
and  afterwards  also,  in  handling  them  for  the  purpose  of 
drawing  the  corks,  and  decanting  the  wines,  not  to  dis- 
turb any  deposit  that  may  exist  in  the  bottles,  for  that 
deposit,  if  shaken,  destroys  not  only  the  brilliancy  of  the 
wine,  but  also  impairs  its  flavour  and  bouquet. 

The  different  Hnds  of  Sherries,  Ports,  Madeira,  and 
all  Spanish  and  Portuguese  wines  in  general,  are  the 
better  for  having  been  decanted  seveiul  hours  before 
being  drunk.  During  winter  their  aroma  is  improved 
by  the  temperature  of  the  dining-room  acting  upon  their 
volatile  properties  for  an  hour  or  so  before  dinner-time. 
By  paying  due  attention  to  this  part  of  the  process,  all 
the  mellowness  which  good  wines  acquire  by  age,  pre- 
dominates to  the  delight  of  the  epicure's  grateful  palate. 
The  lighter  wines,  such  as  Bordeaux,  Burgundy,  and 
most  of  the  wines  of  Italy,  should  be  most  carefully 
handled,  and   decanted  an  hour  only  before  dinner- 


466  FBAK0ATELLI*8  IN8TBU0TI0H8  VOB 

time.  In  winter,  the  decanters  should  be  either  dipped 
in  warm  water  or  else  placed  near  the  fire,  to  warm 
them,  for  about  ten  minutes  previouslj  to  their  being 
usedi  In  summer,  use  the  decanters  without  wanning 
them,  as  the  genial  warmth  of  the  atmosphere  will  be 
all-sufficient,  not  only  to  prevent  chilling  the  wines,  but 
to  develop  llieir  fragrant  bouquet.  Moreover,  let  these, 
and  all  delicate  wines,  be  brought  into  the  dining-room 
as  late  as  may  be  consistent  with  convenience. 

And  now,  as  regards  the  order  in  which  wines  should 
be  served  during  dinner : — I  would  recommend  all  bon 
vivants  desirous  of  testing  and  thoroughly  enjoying  a 
variety  of  wines,  to  bear  in  mind  that  they  should  be 
drunk  in  the  following  order :  viz. — 

When  it  happens  that  oysters  prefEU^e  the  dinner, 
a  glass  of  Chablis  or  Sauteme  is  their  most  proper 
accompaniment:  genuine  old  Madeira,  or  East  India 
Sherry,  or  Amontillado,  proves  a  welcome  stomachic  after 
soup  of  any  kind, — ^not  excepting  turtle, — after  eating 
which,  as  you  value  your  health,  avoid  all  kinds  of 
punch — especially  Eoman  punch.  During  the  service 
of  fish,  cause  any  of  the  following  to  be  handed  cound 
to  your  guests : — Amontillado,  Hock,  Tisane  Cham- 
pagne, Pouilly,  Meursault,  Sauteme,  Arbois,  vin  de 
Grave,  Montrachet,  Ch&teau-Grill^,  Barsao,  and  gene- 
rally all  kinds  of  dry  white  wines. 

With  the  entries,  any  of  the  following  wines  may  be 
introduced:  viz. — 


BOBDEAUX. 

Saint  Jalien. 

Leoville. 

Laroze. 

Haut-Brion. 

ChAteau-LaHtte. 

Ch&teau-Margaux. 

MoatoD-Lafitto. 

Latour. 

M^oc. 

Saint  Emilion. 

Saint  Est^phe. 


BURGUNDY,  fto. 

Maoon. 

Moulin4-vent. 

Thorins. 

Beaune. 

Chassagne. 

Pale  and  brown  Sh«rriM. 

Amontillado. 

Booellaa. 

MaDdniUo. 


THB  SXBYIOB   OF  WINB8. 


457 


aBGOND-COXTBBE  WINES. 
BED  WINES. 


Pommard. 

Rhenish  wines  (red^ . 

Volnay, 

£rmikage. 

NuitB. 

Hermitage. 

.  Ridiebourg. 

Tavel. 

Clos-Vougeot. 

Roossillon. 

Boman^ContL 

Ch&teau  neuf  du  Pa(X 

Chambertin. 

Cdte-r6tie. 

Saint  Georges. 

Jnran9on. 

PoaiUy. 

Mont^Fiasoone. 

Meanault. 

Mont^-Poldano. 

Saint  Perray. 

Vino  di  Pasta. 

WHITE 

WINES. 

Vin  de  Graye. 

A!  p^tillant. 

Santenie. 

CarboDnieuz. 

Barsao, 

Champagnes. 

Lanson. 

BED  OHAl 

iPAGNER. 

Boozy, 

Champagne. 

Versy. 

Sillery. 

Vohuty  monssenx. 

Sparkling  Moselle. 

Veore  Cliqaot. 

DES8EHT 

WIJNES. 

Muscat-Frontignan. 

Madeira. 

Mnacat-Lunel. 

Malmsey  Madeira. 

MoBcat-Rivesalte. 

Syracuse. 

Grenache. 

Tokay. 

Vin  de  paille. 

Constance. 

Malaga. 

Carcavalios. 

Rota. 

PicoU. 

Alicante. 

Schiras. 

A  qaestion  of  tho  highest  importance,  but  into  which 
may  but  briefly  enter,  is  to  determine  to  which  of 
U  these  wines  a  decided  preference  should  be  given, 
oth  with  regard  to  taste,  and  also  in  respect  to  their 
iflnence  on  the  health  of  different  temperaments.  It  is 
Eusier  to  settle  the  latter  part  of  the  question  than  the 
>niier,  inasmuch  as  it  is  difficult,  not  to  say  imposM* 


:-^  zc  Ifcj  ii-vn  n^  f:r  :»  guidbaoe  of  the  pakftek 
T-^  i2ier«  A^^  it:  =rr  ^hi.  drlizi:Li  in  tlie  perfnmed  yvt 
^-L»T-=r«r  :'.'ys~u£T  .:  r-.Ti-r^-zx.  v£iLe  otfaeri  prefer  thed»- 
lio*:?  fnzr&r  ^fr  cf  •.  Li=.riiL£:i^ :  aozie  give  the  pefan  to 
iirr  rr— -er.  ~^  AZ:!  i=.in^-iz:»pjriz:^  poveiB  <^  Sufgiuicj^; 
wuJ.^  'Jzr:  z^m.z.  ir»ri-  'iu*:  Mjidein  (whiai  gennina), 
1  .rL  &=.i  ^jifrrrx.  fr.c  vL&:  are  lermed  their  graennu 
x^nr?*-  ijTi.rir^  ibr  rl-rr-dfol  ftdmixtiire  of  sloohol,' 
AT*  Tlr  ;=J^T  wiires  w^nhv  of  notice.  All  these  tutfiB 
^7^  =.:•  'i:'^c<  wrll  v^j-iz^  f:Tci<ded  on  good  and  snffi- 
citi::  rr^adCfii.  azd  nviT  prcve  safe  indicators  for  the 
I r«s*crr*Ti:a  cf  bsAl'i . — f.r  instance,  a  person  of  san- 
z^iizie  lezipsraz.tr.:  fe^elf  a  neceasiiT  for  a  light  sapid 
vine.  Fz:}^  as  p^-.Mi  j£  LlukZir^^es  and  Bhenish  widsb; 
wiile  tb»  rLlegzLadc  se^k  ih^iTse  of  a  moze  spiritaons, 
^zL^T'.'is  E-knre — Eargnndv.  Port,  Madeira,  or  Shenj. 
Th  use  whc  are  a  prev  to  sp-I^en — lowneas  of  spirits-- 
=2rl^nch:l7 — are  rrwce  to  «eleci«  as  a  sure  and  pleasant 
resardv  for  their  friziitfal  ailnien"^,  the  wines  of  Italy, 
^p^'n.  PomzaL  Bouagill  jn.  and  Bargrmdj.  The  bilioiis, 
^ho  zenerallj  are  llesseed  wiih  a  g*:^  appetite,  pro- 
vii^i  ilwivs  iLi:  u:ev  do  n::  a2i:krr.  re-^nire  a  generous 
wine,  wLicL,  while  CTapa:  le  . :  a-^ting  K'th  as  an  astrin- 
i?riiT  and  a  dii.&.:Ivent  of  the  bile,  is  of  ficile  diges- 
ri  :n  :  snch  are  the  properties  of  all  first-class  Bordeaux 
wines.  Bjr»ieaTix  is  said  to  be  a  cold  wine  ;  this  &lse 
nitija  arises  out  of  mere  preju-lice — nothing  can  be 
more  contrarv  to  tratL:  this  health-restoring  wine,  as 
I  have  alrea*iv  stated,  is  of  easy  digestion,  and  possesses, 
more-i'ver,  the  advantage  of  being  verv  considerably 
less  inebriating  than  any  other  first-class  wine.  In 
bhort,  Bnrgondy  is  exciting.  Champagne  is  captions, 
Konssillon  restorative,  and  Bordeaux  stomachic. 

It  now  remains  to  show  the  order  in  which  the  se- 
veral sorts  of  wines,  enumerated  above,  should  be  served 
at  table.  Custom  and  feishion  have  ever  had  more  to  do 
with  this  practice  than  any  real  consideration  for  health 
or  taste. 


THE  SEBVIOB  OF  WINES.     •  459 

It  is  genorally  admitted  by  red  gourmets^  that  red 
wines  should  precede  the  introduotion  of  white  wines, 
—  those  reoommended  as  proper  acoompanimonts  to 
oysters  and  fish  excepted.  The  custom  most  in  vogue 
at  the  best  tables  in  London  and  Paris  is,  to  commence 
by  introducing,  simultaneously  with  the  entrees,  any 
of  the  following  Burgundy  wines : — Avallon,  Coulanges, 
Tonnerre,  Vermanton,  Iranoy,  Mercurey,  Chassagne, 
and,  generally,  all  those  wines  known  under  the  spe- 
oifio  names  of  Macon  and  Auxerre  :  these  maybe  variod 
or  replaced  by  other  wines,  denominated  Saint  Denis, 
Saint  Ay,  and  Beaugency :  these  again  lead  to  the  fur- 
ther libations  of  Beaune,  Pommard,  Yolnay  Kichebourg, 
Chambertin,  Saint  Georges,  Boman^e.  With  the  second 
oourse,  roasts  and  dressed  vegetables,  and  savoury 
entremets,  honour  your  guests  by  graciously  ushering 
to  their  notice  sparkling  Champagne  and  Moselle,  the 
delioioushr  perfumed  Cumi^res,  the  brilliant  Sillery,  the 
glorious  Hermitage,  Cdte-rdtie,  and  Ch&teau-Grill6. 

With  the  service  of  the  entremets  de  douceur — or,  as  we 
have  it,  the  sweets — let  ioed-creaming,  sparkling  Cham- 
pagne or  Moselle  be  handed  round ;  but  far  superior  to 
them,  I  would  recommend  a  trial  of  Ai  pStUlanty  Arbois, 
Condrieux,  Eivesaltes,  Malaga,  Frontignan,  Grenache, 
Malmsey  Madeira,  and  East  India  Sherry. 

So  little  wine  is  drunk  at  dessert  in  this  country,  that 
it  would  be  superfluous  to  enter  into  particulars  about 
the  service  further  than  to  refer  the  reader  to  the  list  of 
wines  appropriated  to  this  part  of  a  dinner.     And  what 
siiall  be  <»ttid  with  respect  to  the  class  of  wines  best 
adapted  to  make  their  appearance  on  the  table  after 
dinner  ?     Why  simply  this ;   if  you  have  done  reason- 
able honour  to  some  of  the  good  things  which  I  will 
Suppose  your  table  to  have  been  supplied  with,  pray  let 
the  wine  alone  for  the  present,  and  order  up  the  coffee — 
Ao^,  strong,  and  bright  I    Let  it  be  made  with  pure—  picked 
overland  Mocha, — fresh  roasted  pale — coai*sely  ground, — 
%nd  pray  do  forbid  your  housekeeper  to  clartfy  it  with 


""^^onom,  ,0,  ram 
ys:  bot  tell  her  t^  ""^^  **  *n*i 

r7°®^of  ifiin^]^^     ™V  Italian  watyxiT  ^^  «f  «ho 

^oyn.  Terras    ^  ""'  ^  ^^'<^^TELL1 


461 


DEINKING-CUP8. 


1.-CLABET  CUP. 

dients : — One  bottle  of  Claret,  one  pint  bottle  of 
Seltzer- water,  a  small  bunch  of  balm,  ditto  of 
,  one  orange  cut  in  slices,  half  a  cucumber  sliced 
liqueur- glass  of  Cognac,  ^nd  one  ounce  of  bruised 
mdy. 

iss : — Place  these  ingredients  in  a  covered  jug 
imersed  in  rough  ice,  stir  all  together  with  a 
poon,  and  when  the  cup  has  been  iced  for  about 
,  strain  or  decanter  it  off  free  from  the  herbs,  &c. 

2.-^BADMINT0N  CUP. 

idients  : — One  bottle  of  red  Burgundy,  one  quart 
aan  Seltzer-water,  the  rind  of  one  orange,  the 
two,  a  wine-glass  of  Cura9ao,  a  bunch  of  balm, 
buiTage,  a  sprig  of  verbina,  one  ounce  of  bruised 
indy,  a  few  slices  of  cucumber. 
)88 : — Place  these  ingredients  in  a  covered  jug 
3d  in  rough  ice  for  about  an  hour  previously  to 
g  required  for  use,  aud  afterwards  decanter  the 
}  from  the  herbs,  &c. 

3.— CHAMPAGNE  CUP. 

>dients : — One  bottle  of  Champagne,  one  quart 

)f  German  Seltzer-water,  two  oranges  sliced,  a 

of  balm,  ditto  of  burrage,  one  ounce  of  bruised 

may. 

388 : — ^Place  these  ingredients  in  a  covered  jug 


ioBLQeiiLicii  ia.  nixxtL  ioe  for  am  boor  and  a  quarter 
▼biottLT  tu  ca  beu^  r«i|ii£rcd  lor  nae,  and  then  dean 

ic  free  cxiin.  doe  ba&rbas.  ioc 


CCP. 

lBg3r««iLec;a : — *>n«&  boole  of  Santeme,  one 
Ybihy-Wsiair.  zwj}  onkogea  aliccd,  a  bunch  of  bahn,  dh 
cf  barra«r^.  cii«e  «:  tznce  of  brrxfiicd  si^ur-candj. 

P^uc«s!d  1 — PIdce  thaeae  iB^redieuta  in  a  coveted  ji 
(HnJbedd^  ui  !&:«  for  aa  boor  and  a  qoarter  preTioodji 
tfajd  csp  bems  reipired  iar  laat^  and  then  decanter  it 

IX  CXF. 


In^rediexLts : — Oc«  hoctle  of  spttrUii^  lfo6ene,(l» 
€fskn  of  GenxukZL  Selcnr >w;^cr,  a  bvnch  of  bafan,  ditto  d 
bccmg^  two  orangefi  isliced,  oxiie  oxaice  of  banised  sogv- 

CaDaiT. 

Pr<:ce» : — ^Flace-  tbcK^  in^rediaita  in  a  corered  jog, 
imhedded  ia  roo^  ice  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter  joe- 
TtjoalT  to  the  cnp  hein^  reqnired  for  use,  and  then 
derantrr  ii  free  from  tiEie  Lerbs^  «2fcc 

tL-PDTE-JLPPLE  CTP. 

Ingredients : — Eiglit  orniotss  of  pine-apple  sliced  Tcry 
j:Iiin.  one  bo;n:Ie  of  Ai  wine,  a  sprig  of  Terbina,  a  wine- 
gLass  foil  of  31araBchino.  one  quart  bottle  of  double  soda- 
water,  one  oonoe  of  brnised  sngar-candy. 

Process  : — ^Thoronghlj  embed  the  wine  and  the  soda- 
water  in  r^ngb  ice  for  an  hour  previonslj  to  its  being 
reqnire<i  f  .r  use ;  and  tben,  first  place  the  slices  of  pine- 
^ple,  the  Terbina,  the  Ifaraachino,  and  the  sugar-candj 
in  a  glass  ju^^  and  afterwards  add  thereto  the  iced  winv 
and  soda-water. 

7v— CHABLIS  CUP. 

Ti^redients : — One  bottle  of  Chablis,  one  pint  oi 
German  Seltzer-water,  one   bunch  of  bahn,  ditto  of 


INBTBUOnONS   FOB  MAKING  DBINEING-CUP8.  463 

Imrrage,  one  orange  sliced,  one  ounce  of  bruised  sugar- 
candy.       I 

Process: — Place  these  ingredients  in  a  covered  jug 
embedded  in  rough  ice  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter  pre- 
viously to  its  being  required  for  xise,  and  then  decanter 
tlie  oup  free  from  the  herbs,  &c. 

8.— BEER  CUP. 

Ingredients: — One  quart  of  stout  or  porter,  half  an 
ounce  of  moist  sugar,  a  small  slice  of  bread  toasted 
brown,  and  a  smsdl  quantity  of  grated  nutmeg  and 
ginger.  Mix  these  ingredients  in  a  jug,  and  allow  the 
cup  to  steep  for  half  an  hour  previoutjly  to  its  being 
drank. 

Note. — ^Ale  cup  is  made  in  a  similar  manner. 

These  cups  are  more  particularly  adapted  for  being 
handed  round  with  cheese. 

9.— CYDER  CUP. 

Ingredients  : — One  quart  of  Cyder,  one  pint  of  German 
Seltzer- water,  a  small  glass  of  Cognac,  a  bunch  of  balm, 
ditto  of  burrago,  a  sliced  orange,  one  ounce  of  bruised 
sugar-candy. 

Process: — Place  the  ingredients  in  a  covered  jug 
embedded  in  ice  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  then 
decanter  the  cup  free  from  herbs,  &c. 

Note, — Any  other  aerated  water  may  be  substituted 
for  Seltzer,  or  the  cup  may  be  prepared  without  the 
addition  of  any  water. 

10.— PERRY  CUP. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  Cyder  cupi 
substituting,  of  course,  Perry  for  Cyder. 


465 


BILLS  OF  FAEE  FOB  EVEET  MONTH 

m  THE  YEAK, 


m  £NGUSH  AND  FBENOH. 


^H 


466 


BILLS   or   TABS 


DiNMKB   FOB   6   OB   8   PSBSOMB.      JojiUatp. 

J  ulienne  soup. 
Soles  au  gratin. 


I  Remove, 
Braised  1^  of  mutton  a  la  Proven9ale. 


2  Entrees, 

Salmis  of  partridges  with  mushrooms. 
Boudins  of  fowl  a  la  Pompadour. 


Sboond  i;ounei. 


Koast  wild  duck.  t>ottfile  pudaibg. 

Dressed  spinach.  AppU  Charlotte. 


DiNNEB  FOB  6  OB  8  PxBSONB.     Januani 

cressy  soup. 

Boiled  Dublin  Bay  haddock,  ^g  sauce. 


1  Remote. 
Boiled  capon  with  broccoli  and  white  sauce 


2  Entrees. 

Mutton  cutlets  a  la  Reforme. 
Sweetbreads  larded  a  la  jardiniere. 


Second  Course. 


Roast  pheasant.  Punch  jelly. 

Iffacaroni  au  gratin  Pear  tartlets 


FOB  JANUAUT.  467 


DiNBB  DB  6  A  8  CouvBBTS.     Janvier, 

Le  potage  a  la  Julienne. 
Les  soles  au  gratin. 


1  Releve, 
Le  gigot  de  mouton  a  la  Provcn9ale. 


2  Entrees, 

Le  salmis  de  perdreaux  aux  champignons. 
Les  boudins  de  volailie  a  la  Pompadour. 


Second  Service. 


Le  canard  sauvage  roti.  Le  pudding  souffle. 

Les  epinards  au  jus.  La  Charlotte  de  pommcs. 


DfNER  DE  6  A  8  CouvBBTS.     Janvier. 

Le  potage  a  la  Cressy. 

La  merluchc,  sauce  aux  oeufs. 


1  Jieleve, 
Le  chapon  bouilli  aux  brocolis. 


2  Entrees. 

Les  cotelettes  de  mouton  k  la  Reform e. 
Les  ris  de  veau  piques  a  la  jardiniere. 


Second  Service. 

Le  faisan  rdti.  La  gelee  de  punch. 

Le  macaroni  au  gratin.  Les  tartelettes  de  poires. 

2h2 


408  BILLS   OF   FA&B 


Dinner  fob  10  ob  12  Psbsohs.  January. 

Consomme  soup  with  quenellefl. 
Turbot  with  Dutch  tauce. 


2  Removei. 

Braized  fillet  of  beef  larded  )k  la  Chateaabriand. 
Roast  turkey  with  puree  of  mushrooms. 


4  Entreet, 

Oyster  KrOmeskys  )k  la  Russe. 
Pork  cutlets,  sauce  Robert. 
Partridges  k  la  Prince  of  Wales. 
Supreme  of  fowls  with  Macedoine. 


Second  Coubsb. 

Pintail.  [2  Roasts.']  Snipes. 


1  Remove, 
Fondu  of  Parmesan  cheese. 


4  EntremeU. 

Salad  a  la  Rachel.  Vol-au-vent  of  greengages  (preserved). 

Plombieres  cream  iced.  Braized  celery,  with  brown  sauce. 


FOB   JANUABY.  469 


DiNEB  DB  10  1  12  CouvBBTB.     Jauvier 

Le  potage  consomme  aux  quenelles. 
Le  turbot  k  la  sauce  Uollandaise. 


2  Releveim 

Le  filet  de  boeuf  pique  a  la  Chateaubriand. 
La  dinde  rotie  k  la  puree  de  champignons. 


4  Entrees. 

Les  KrSmeskys  d'hmtres  h  la  Russe. 
Les  cotelettes  de  pore  it  la  sauce  Robert. 
Les  perdjreaux  a  la  Prince  de  Gal  les. 
Le  supreme  de  volaille  it  la  Macedoine. 


Second  Service. 
Les  ponies  d*eau.  [2  Bott."]  hes  becassines. 


1  jReleve. 
Le  fondu  au  Parmesan. 


4  Entremets. 

La  salade  it  la  Rachel.  Le  vol  au-vent  de  rdne- 

claudes. 
La  cr^me  Plombi^res  glacee.  Les  celeris  braises  au  jus. 


170 


BILLS  or  WAmm 


Dix^EB  FOB  12  OB  14  PiBflovB.     FAmonf. 

MnUlgatawnej  Mop. 
Cieftr  Iralian  paste  aoiipu 


Crimpt  cod,  f>jster  tuic«. 
Filleu  of  garnets  k  Is  cardinal. 


2B€ 

Roast  saddle  of  mutton. 

Boiled  fowlii  and  tongue  a  la  Maeedoiae. 


4  Emtrea, 

Sweetbread  cutlets  a  la  Yillerni. 
Salmis  of  woodcoeks  a  la  chasseur. 
Fillets  of  rabbits  larded  a  la  Touloa^. 
Bomlins  of  pheasant  a  la  Richdiea. 


Second  Cocbise. 
Black  game.  [2  RonMUJ] 


Partridges. 


Ginger  pudding.         [2  Remotes.']  Apple  fritters. 


6  Entremets. 


Seakaie  with  white  sauce. 
Cana(>ces  a  la  Prince  of  Wales. 
Coffee  cream. 


Apricots  and  rice. 

Compote  of  chestnuts  vermicelli i-.l 

Savarin  cake  with  maraschino. 


FOE   FEBRUABT.  471 


DtNER  DB  12  k  14  GouYXBTS.     Fiwier, 

Le  potage  ii  la  Mulligatawney. 
Le  consomme  aux  pates  d'ltaUe 


2  Foissons, 

Le  cabillaud  recrepi,  sauce  aux  hiiitres. 
Les  filets  de  grondins  a  la  cardinal. 


2  Beleveif. 

La  selle  de  mouton  rotie. 

Let  poulets  et  langue  a  la  Macedoine. 


4  Entree*, 

Les  cdtelettes  de  ris  de  veau  a  la  VilleoL 
Le  salmis  de  b^casses  a  la  chasseur. 
Les  filets  de  lapereux  piques  k  la  Toulouse 
Les  boudins  de  faisan  a  la  Richelieu. 


Second  Service. 
Les  coqs  noirs.        [2  BoU."^  Les  perdreaux. 


2  Releve's, 
Le  pudding  au  gingembre.  Les  beignets  de  pommes 


6  JSntremets, 

Les  choux  de  mer  ii  la  sauce.  Les  abricots  au  nz. 

Les  canapes  it  la  Prince  de  La  compote  de  marrons  en 

Galfes.  vermicelle. 

La  cr§mc  au  cafe.  savarin  au  marasquin. 


478  BOJM  OV  WAMB 


DiHViB  FOB  16  om  20  Fnion.    FfLrmtry, 

IffodlL  turtle  foop. 
CarltoB  HooM  KNipt. 


Ttsrhni  with  lobttor  MMoe. 
Filleti  of  loles  ii  to  Banimiiaiie. 


2  ItttDonctt 

Glased  bam  with  spinach. 

Gapoiif  with  tnifflef  k  la  PMgueux. 


6  JSalm*. 

Ghartrema  of  partridget. 
Crouatada  with  qoeiiallaa  k  la  LoeaUoa. 
HnttoQ  eotleta  lardad,  ehevrenil  laaee. 
Sateia  of  anlpei  )k  la  honne-boaehe. 
Fricawae  of  chlekena  with  mashrooms. 
Si^f^me  of  phaaiant,  por^  of  chettnats. 


SKOdrD  COUBSE. 

Hare.  [2  Booute.]  Widgeon 


2  Remova. 
load  biscuits  with  yanilla.  Souffle  of  ground  rice. 


6  EntremeU, 

Broccoli  with  Parmeaan  cheese.  ChocoKitc  cream. 
Aspic  border  with  Italian  salad.  Fear.^  a  la  Conde. 
Orange  jelly.  Genocij  giaceswith  noyei 


FOB   FSBBUAUT.  473 


DInxb  db  16  k  20  OouYEBTS.     Fevrier. 

Le  potage  k  la  fausse  tortue. 
Le  potage  it  la  Carlton  HouBe. 


2  Poiuons. 

Le  tnrbot  ^  la  sauce  homard. 
Lee  filets  de  soles  it  la  Rouennaise. 


2  Releves. 

Le  jambon  glace  aux  epinards. 
Les  chapons  truffes  ii  la  Perigueux. 


6  Entrees, 

La  chartreuse  de  perdreaux. 

La  croustade  de  quenelles  k  la  liucullus. 

Les  odtelettes  de  moutou  piquees  en  chevreuil. 

Le  salmis  de  becassines  a  la  bonnc-bouche. 

La  fricassee  de  poulets  aux  champignons. 

Le  supreme  de  faisan,  puree  de  marrons. 


Second  Service. 
Le  lievre.  \2  RotB."]  Les.macreuscs. 


2  Releves. 

Les  petits  biscuits  glaces  a  la  vanillc. 
Le  soaf9e  de  farine  de  riz. 


6  Kntremets, 

Les  brocolis  au  Parmesan.  La  creme  au  chocolat. 

L*aspic  garni  d'une  salade  Les  poires  a  la  Conde. 

Italienne. 

La  gelee  d'oranges.  Les  Genoises  <;lacecs  au  noyef  u. 


174  BniLR  OF   VABE 


DiNNEB  FOB  8  OB  10  Pebsons.     Mcrck. 


Ox-tail  soup  a  la  jardiniere. 
Baked  gurnets,  piquante  sauce. 


2  Removes. 

Roast  saddle  of  Welsh  mutton. 
Boiled  capon  with  celery  sauce. 


3  Entrees, 

Lobster  patties. 

Fricandeau  with  peas  (preserved). 

Fillets  of  pigeons  a  la  de  Luynes. 


Second  Course. 

Russian  salad.        [2  Roasts.']  Teal. 


Apple  tart.  [2  Removes.']        Cabinet  pudding. 


•4  Eintremets. 

Dressed  Brussels  sprouts.  Pine-apple  jelly. 

>^colloped  oyster!!.  Meringues  a  la  vanille. 


FOB   MABOII.  175 


DiNSB  DB  8  1  10  CouYEBTS.     Mara, 

Le  potage  de*queue  de  boeuf  a  la  jardiniere. 
Les  grondins  au  four,  sauce  piquante. 


2  Relevea, 

La  selle  de  mouton  gallois  rdtie. 
Le  chapon  bouilli,  puree  de  celeris. 


3  JSntrcts. 

Les  petits  pates  de  homard. 

Le  fricandeau  aux  petits  pois. 

Les  filets  de  pigeons  h,  la  de  Luynes. 


Second  Service. 
La  salade  russe.  [2  Jiots.']  Les  sarcellcs. 


La  tarte  de  pommes.        [^2  Heleves,')        Le  pudding  de  cabinet 


4  EntremeU, 

Les  choux  de  Bruxelles  sanies.         La  gelee  d'ananas. 

Lcb  huitres  au  gratin.  Les  meringues  it  la  vanille. 


476  BILLS   OF   FAKE 


DiNNEB    FOR   6    OB   8   PSBSONS.       Aj/Ttl. 

Crayfish  soup. 

Spey  trout,  parsley  sauce. 


2  Removes. 

Boiled  fowls,  oyster  sauce.^ 
Glazed  tongue  a  la  jardiniere. 


2  Entrees. 

Lamb  cutlets,  asparagus  peas. 
Boudins  of  rabbits  a  la  Reine. 


Second  Course. 
Lobster  salad.  [2  RoastsJ]         Green  goose. 


4  Entremets. 

Orange  fritters.  Tapioca  pudding. 

Wine  jelly.  Potatoes  a  la  Lyonnahr 


DiNNEB  FOB  6  OB  8  Pebsons.     April 

Spring  soup. 

Brill  with  lobster  sauce. 


1  Remove. 
Braized  beef  k  la  Napolitaine. 


2  Entrees. 

Frioot  of  fowl,  poivrade  sauce. 
Mutton  cutlets  a  la  Soubise. 


Second  Course. 
Roast  Guinea  fowl. 


4  Entremets. 

Spinach  with  cream.  I.omon  jelly  in  quarter. 

Cheesecakes.  1 )' A rtois  pastry. 


FOR   APRIL.  477 


DtNER   DB   6   X    8   COUYERTS.      AwTtl, 


Le  potsge  k  la  bis(^ue  d'eorevisses. 
La  tniite  de  la  Spaie,  sauce  au  persil. 


2  Releves, 

Lea  poulets  bouillis,  sauce  aux  huitre^ 
La  langue  glacee  a  la  jardiniere. 


2  Entrees, 

Les  cdtelettes  d'agneau  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 
Les  boudins  de  lapereau  k  la  reine. 


Second  Service. 
La  salade  de  homnrd.         [2  Rots.']  L'oisillon. 


4  Entremets. 

Les  beignets  d'orange.  Le  pudding  de  tapioca. 

La  gelee  au  Mad^re.  Les  pommes  de  terre  a  la 

Lyonnaise. 


DtNER   DB   6   i    8   COUVBRTS.      Avril. 

Le  potage  ^rintanier. 

La  barbue  a  la  sauce  homard. 


1  Releve. 
La  piboe  de  boeuf  braisee  a  la  Napolitaine. 


2  Entrees, 

Le  fricot  de  poulet,  sauce  poivrade. 
Les  cdtelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Soubisa. 


Second  Service. 
La  pintade  rotie. 


4  Entremets. 

Les  ^pinards  k  la  creme.  Les  quartiers  de  citrons  4  la 

gelde 
Les  tartelettes  au  fromage  k         Les  petits  D*Artois  a  Tabricot 
ia  creme. 


^78  BILLS   or   FARE 


DI^^ER  FOR  14  or  16  Persons.    May. 

Green  puree. of  asparagus  soup. 
( '/ODSomme  k  la  D^sclignac. 


2  Fishes 


.Jolin  Dory,  Dutch  sauce. 
H^d  mullets  with  fine-herbs. 


2  Removes, 

Cairs  head  a  la  tortue. 

Spring  chickeus  and  tongue  k  la  printaniere. 


4  Entrees. 

Kromeskys  of  sweetbread  k  la  Russe. 
Lamb  cuilets  a  la  Duchesse. 
Salmis  of  quails  with  truffles. 
Fillets  of  lowls  a  la  Regence. 


Second  Course. 
Turkey  poults.  [2  Jtoasts,"]         Ducklings. 


2  Bemoves. 
iced  pudding  a  la  ^csbclrode.  Small  ramequins  in  cases. 


6  Entremets. 

Aspic  of  plovers*  eggs.  Yanilla  cream. 

Asjiaragus.  Gooseberr}  tartlets. 

Strawberry  jelly.  Nougat  of  almonds  a  la  Chanti!'; 


FOE   MAY.  479 


DIneb  ds  14  a  16  CouYEBTS.     Mai. 


Le  potage  k  la  puree  d'asperges. 
Le  consomme  a  la  D'  Esclignao. 


2  Poissom. 

Le  St.  Pierre  a  la  HoUandaise. 

Les  rougets  en  caisses  aux  fines  herbes. 


2  Releves. 

La  tete  de  veau  a  la  tortue. 

Les  petits  poulets  et  langue  a  la  printani^re. 


4  Entrees. 

Les  KrOmeskys  de  ris  de  veau  a  la  Kusse. 
Les  c6telettes  d'agneau  k  la  Duohesse. 
Le  salmis  de  call  les  aux  trufies. 
Les  filets  de  volaille  k  la  Regence. 


Second  Seratice. 
Les  dindonneaux.  [2  Rois.']  Les  canetons. 


2  Beleves. 
Le  pudding  glace  a  la  Nesselrode.      Les  petits  ramequins  en  caisse; 


6  Entremets. 

L'aspic  garni  d'ceufs  do  La  oreme  a  la  vanille. 

pluviers. 
Les  asperges  k  la  sauce.  Les  tartelettes  de  groseilles  a 

maquereaux. 
La  gelee  de  firaises.  ^        Le  nougat  k  la  Chantilly. 


480 


BILL0  OF  FABl 


DncNSB  FOB  12  P1B8ON8.    June 
Pur^  of  green  peM  wmp. 


2FiMfie$. 


Stewed  sturgeon,  matelote  itace. 
FilleU  of  mackerel  k  la  mutreHi'hdtei. 


2  Removes, 

Roast  forequarter  of  lamb. 
Spring  chickens  k  la  Montmorency. 


4  Entries. 

Fillets  of  ducklings  with  ffreen  peas 
Mntton  cutlets  k  la  WyncSiam. 
Blanquette  of  fowl  with  cucumbers. 
Timbale  of  macaroni  k  la  Milanaise. 


Second  Course. 
Pigeons.  [2  Roasts  A  Leveret. 


Flemish  gauffres.         [2  Remooeu ) 


Iced  souffle. 


6  EntremeU, 
French  beans  dressed.  Fesch  jelly  with  noyeau. 


Mayonaise  of  fowl. 
Peas  a  la  Fran9aise. 


Love's  Wells  glaces  with  chocolate 
Flauc  of  apricots  and  rice. 


FOB  JUNE.  481 

D^NMB  DM   12   ^    14   COUVSBTS.      Juin 
!«•  potage  •  la  puree  de  pois  verts. 


2  PoUsoM, 

L  etturgeon  en  matelote. 

Lef  filets  de  maqoereaux  k  la  maitre-d'hdtel 


9  Releves, 

Le  quartier  d'agneau  roti. 

Les  poulets  prlntaniers  k  la  Montmoroncjr. 


4  Entr&u. 

Les  filets  de  canetons  aux  petits  pols. 
Les  cdtelettes  de  mouton  k  la  Wyndham. 
La  blanquette  de  volaiiio  aux  concombre^. 
La  timbale  de  macaroni  k  la  Milanaise. 


Second  Seuvick. 
Les  pigeons.  [2  Hots,']  Lc  levraut 


2  Relevea, 
Les  gauffires  k  la.  Flamandc.  Lc  souffle  giace 


6  Entremets. 

Les  haricots  verts  sautes.  IjA  gelee  do  peches  au  noycau 

La  mayonaise  de  volidlle.  Les  puits-d*amour  glaces  au 

ohocolat 
Lei  petits  pois  it  la  Fran^su.        Le  flano  d'abricou  au  vit. 


2i 


482  BILLB  or  FABX 

Dinn  roE  20  TO  S4  Pbmhs.    J^f. 

(Sared^kRoHe.) 


S/UUik 


Tvboc,  lobster  Maee.  Oia^  nfanoo,  0ateh  Mote. 

Whttebut. 


3 

Bout  hMinch  of  TeniMm. 
Boiled  empont  a  la  Tonloaae. 

ham  with  WindiM'  beans. 


S  Ew/tnet* 

i.  Lamb  cutlets  i^  la  Princesse. 

2.  Bowdins  of  fowl  a  la  Lacollns. 

S.  Fillets  of  ducklings  with  green  peaa 


Second  Cocrse. 
Qoails.  LeTerets.  Spring  chickens. 


Pate  ae  tules  gras^  [3  Remota.]        Iced  Plombieres  cream. 

Baba  with  ^ine  whip. 


S  Drtt»ea  Veaelabia, 
Ajtoaraf^is-  French  beans.  Stewea  peas. 

3  £nirewteU, 

X  Maeedoines  of  Fmit  Iced.  2.  Strawberry  tartlets. 

2.  Russian  Charlottes  k  la  ranille. 


Foa  JULY.  483 

DInkk  ds  20  k  24  Coutxhtb.     JuiUet 

(Servi  )i  la  Bu8se.) 

A  la  tortuo.  [2  Pot.i^fes,']  Printanier. 


3  Poissona. 

Turbot,  sauce  homard.  Saumon,  sauce  hollaudaise 

Les  ablettes  fiites. 


3  Belevet, 

La  hanche  de  yenaison  rdtie. 

Les  chapons  k  la  Toulouse. 

Le  jambon  glace  auz  f^ves  de  marais 


3  Entrees. 

2.  Les  coteleties  d'agneau  a  la  Princesse. 
2.  Les  boudins  de  volaille  a  la  LucuUus. 
2.  Les  filets  de  canetons  auz  pois  verts. 


&B00NO  Service. 
3  Roit. 
Cailles.  Levrauts.  Poulets  printaniers. 


3  Relevea. 

Le  pate  de  foies  gras.  La  Plombieres  glacee. 

Le  baba  au  Sabayon. 


3  Lejpime*. 

Les  asperges  a  la  sauce.  Les  haricots  verts  a  la  poulettc. 

Les  petits  pois  li  la  Fran9aise. 


3  JSntremeU. 

2.  Les  Macedoiaes  de  fruits  2.  Les  tartelettes  de  fraises 

glacees.  k  la  Celestine. 

2.  Les  Charlottes  Busses  k  la  vanille. 

2i2 


484  BILLg  OF   FAEK 


Dinner  fob  8  ob  10  PsBfiONS.     Augtul. 

Clear  vennicelli  9oup. 
S&lmon  grilled  a  la  Tartare. 


iioast  leg  of  lamb.  [2  Removes.']       Fowl  a  la  financiere. 


3  Entrea, 

Croqiiettes  of  fowL  Fillets  of  beef  saates  a  la  ChateaabrUnd 

Compote  of  pigeons  with  peas,  &c. 


Secovd  Coubse. 
Boast  grouse.  German  salad. 


4  JSntrewtetM, 

Compiegne  cake  with  apricot.  Pine-apple  jellj. 

PeacoeB  and  rice.  Artichokes  a  la  LyonnaiM 


DiNNEB  FOB  8  OB  10  Pebsons.     Augusl. 

Le  potage  a  la  Marcus  Hill. 
Les  truites  ^  la  Proven9ale. 


2  Removes. 
Boast  neck  of  venison.  Grouse  pie  a  T  Anglaise. 


3  Entree*. 

Mutton  catlets  with  cauliflowers.        Fowls  saates  a  la  Marengo 
Tendons  of  veal  with  stewed  peas. 


Secosd  Cocbse. 
Boast  capon.  Aspic  of  prawns. 


4  EmtrewutM. 

Apricot  fritters.  Filbert  tariiets. 

Italian  cream.  French  bv^ta  .ircsacd. 


roB  AUGUST.  485 


DhrxB  DB  8  A  10  Couyebts.    AotiL 


Le  potage  au  Termicelle  clair. 
Le  saumon  grille  k  la  Tartare. 


2  Releves, 
Le  gigot  d'agneau  rdti.  Le  poulet  a  la  financi^re. 

3  Entree», 

Les  croquettes  de  volaille. 

Les  filets  de  boeuf  sautes  a  la  Chateaubriand. 

La  compote  de  pigeons  aux  pois,  &c. 


Second  Service. 
Les  grouses  roties.  La  salade  a  TAllemande. 

4  Entremets. 

Le  gateau  de  Compiegne  k  La  gelee  d'ananas. 

Tabricot. 
Les  peches  au  riz  a  la  Conde.      Les  artichauts  a  la  Lyonnaise. 


DtNEB  DB  8  A  10  Couyebts.    Aoui, 

Le  potage  a  la  Marcus-Hill. 

Les  truites  grillees  a  la  Proven9aIe. 


2  Releves. 

Le  carre  de  venaison  roti. 

Le  pate  de  grouse  a  I'Anglaisc. 


3  Entrees. 

Les  cotelettes  de  mouton  aux  choux-fleurs 
Les  poulets  sautes  a  la  Marengo. 
Les  tendons  de  veau  aux  pois  verts. 


Second  Service. 
Le  cbapon  roti.  L'aspic  de  prawns. 

4  Entremets. 

Les  beignets  d'abricots.  Les  tarttslettes  aux  avclinea 

La  creme  a  Tltalienne.  Les  haricots  verts  sautes. 


486  BILLS  OF   FABB 


DiNNBE  FOB  12  pBBSOire.    September. 

Grouse  soap. 
Salmon  sonehet. 


Chioken  pie  k  1' Anglaiae.        [2  JZsmomi .]  RoMt  sirloin  of  beef 

4  EnirAt. 

Ve«l  eatlets  larded  k  la  B^noe. 
Braised  partridges  with  cabbage,  &e. 
Quenelles  of  fowl  k  TEstragon. 
Civet  of  leveret  k  la  Bordelaise. 


Sboond  Course. 
Capon.  [2  RoasU."]  '   Grouse. 


1  Remove, 
Coffee  souffle. 


4  Entremets. 

Artichokes  k  la  Barigoule.  Vol-au-vent  of  greengages. 

Damson  cheese  k  la  Chantilly.  Profitrolles  with  chocolate. 


DmNEB  FOB  6  Pebsons.     September, 

Soup  Ik  la  bonne  femme. 
Fillets  of  soles  k  la  ravigote. 


1  Remove, 
Roast  saddle  of  mutton. 


2  Entrees, 
Salmis  of  grouse.  Sweetbreads  larded,  with  spinach. 


Second  Coitbse. 
Roast  hare.  Italian  salad. 


4  Entremets. 
Tomatas  au  gratin.  Punch  jelly. 

Flano  of  pears  and  rice.  Damson  tart 


FOB   SEPTEMBXB.  487 


DtNEB  DB  12  CouYEBTs.     SeptemJtrre, 

Le  potage  a  la  puree  de  grouses. 
Le  souchet  de  saumon. 


Le  pate  de  poulets.        [2  RelevesJ]        Le  roast  beef. 


4  JEtUreea, 

Les  cotelettes  de  veau  piquees  a  la  Regence. 
Le»  perdrix  braisees  aux  choux,  &c. 
Les  quenelles  de  volaille  a  I'Estragon. 
Le  civet  de  levraut  a  la  Bordelaise. 


Second  Service. 
Le  chapon.  [2  Rots.']  Les  grouses. 


1  Releve, 
Le  souffle  au  cafe. 


4  Entremeta. 

}8  artichauts  a  la  Barigoule.  Le  vol-au-vent  de  reine'Claudes. 

}  pain  de  prunes  transparent.         Les  profitroUes  au  chocolat. 


D!nbb  DB  6  CouvBRTS.     Septefmbre, 

Le  potage  a  la  bonne  femme. 
Les  filets  de  soles  a  la  ravigote. 


1  Releve, 
La  selle  de  mouton  rotie. 


2  Entrees, 
Le  salmis  de  grouses.  Les  ris  de  veau  aux  dpinards. 


Second  Service. 
Le  lievre  roti.  La  salade  Italienne. 


4  Entremets. 
Les  tomates  au  gratin.  La  gelee  de  punch. 

Le  flanc  de  poires  au  riz.  La  tarte  de  prunes. 


ItBBO^  »&  r  fPwMiiw      •Ooldbar. 


f 'o7»   mlifiia.  usmoM.  MUXrtr 


irsuxr..  kl 


-  u-iiii:  crliifc^  iirrvT:  cau»cr  saure 


1  Jl<?n/,n»r_ 


4  £mireM.err 
Cimn  fritUTs.  3ileon  i^av 


V0&  OOTOBBE.  489 


DiNlB  DB  8   OOUYBBTS.      Octobti;. 

Le  potage  k  la  Julienne. 

L»  merluohe  au  four  k  Tltalienne. 


2  Relevea, 

Le  carre  de  mouton  pique  en  obevreuil. 
Le  faisan  roti  a  la  Chipolata. 


2  Entrv'es. 

Les  cotelettes  de  poro,  sauce  tomates. 
Les  lapereaux  en  Karic  a  Tlndicnne. 


Second  Service. 
Let  coqs  noirs  rotis.  L'omelette  aux  huitrcs. 


4  Entremets. 

Les  pommes  de  terre  a  la  Les  tartelettes  de  pommes. 

Duchesse. 
Le  blano-manger.  Le  pudding  de  semoule. 


DtNBR  DE  6  CouvBRTS.     Octobre, 

Le  potage  aux  abattis  d'oies. 

Le  turbot  grille,  sauce  aux  capres. 


1  Releve', 
Le  gigot  de  mouton  a  la  Proven9ale. 


2  Entrees. 

Les  palais  de  boeuf  k  la  Florentine. 
Les  poulets  k  la  Tartarc. 


Second  Service. 
Les  perdreaux  rotid.  Les  brooolia  &  la  sauce 


4  Entremets, 

Les  beignets  k  la  Cintra  Les  pains  dc  la  Mecquc; 

La  gelde  au  noyeau.  Le  pudding  k  ^'ananas. 


iM 


1* 


»k 


•  k 


SfiOU9I>  C< 

ro.  [SJSoato.]  WOddKks. 


leed  hme9 


vbip. 


6  £winwtetMm 


cclci  9.  bffown 
MajoiHUfe  of  loiwter. 
Brmi  bread  padding. 


I^eapoCtm  cake. 

■««•        *    _     •  •  9     aa 


SopfcoM  of  frvilB. 


FOB  NOYIESIBSIU  491 


DtuBB  DB  18  CouYEBTS.     Novemhre. 


Lft  puree  de  carottes  k  la  Cressy. 

Le  consomme  de  faisans  aux  quenelles. 


2  Poissons. 

Le  cabillaud  recrepi  aux  huitres. 
Le  turbot  a  la  cardinal. 


2  Relevet, 

Le  rond  de  veau  roti  a  la  jardiniere. 
Le  jambon  aux  epinards. 


6  Entrees. 

Ls  bordure  de  riz  a  la  reine. 
Le  jmte-chaud  a  la  financiere. 
Let  ootelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Russe. 
Le  salmis  de  grouses  a  la  Richelieu. 
Les  filets  de  Uevre,  sauce  poivrade. 
Le  supreme  a  la  Victoria. 


Second  Service. 
Les  mauTiettes.  [2  RotaJ]  Les  canards  sauvages 


2  Seleves, 

Les  cartouches  de  Monsieur  de  Le  Kouglauffe  au  Sabayon. 

Cupidon 


6  Entremets. 

Les  celeris  braises  au  jus.  Le  gateau  k  la  Napolitaine. 

La  mayonaise  de  homard.  La  gelee  au  maraschino. 

Le  pudding  de  pain  bis.  Le  supreme  dc  fruits. 


492  BILLS  or  FABS 

DiNNEB  roB  14  Febsoks.     December. 

Brdnoise  [2  S<mps.'\  Parse  of  groosc 


2  Fishes. 


Baked  pike,  with  piquante  sauce 
Whitings  a  la  maitre-d'hotel. 


2  Removes. 

Capon  a  la  Perigueux. 
Roasted  ham,  Madeira  sauce. 


4  Entrees. 

Cutlets  of  partridges  a  la  Marechale. 
Escalopes  of  fat  livers  with  fiae-herbt. 
Boudins  of  fowl  a  la  LucuUus. 
Sweetbreads  larded,  with  endives. 


Second  Course. 
Pheasants.  [2  Boaats.']  Widgeon. 


2  Removes. 
leroish  gauffres.  Vol-au-vcnt  of  fruit,  with  iced  cream 


6  Entremets. 

Potatoe   a  la  Duchesse.  Timbalc  of  nouillcs  8  la  ranil* 

Brussels  sprouts  au  gratin.  Calf's  jelly  with  grapes. 

Ba\arian  raspberry  cream.  Florentines  with  jireen'insejai!- 


FOB  DXOEMBEB.  493 


DtNiB  DB  14  CouvBBTs.     BScembre. 

2  Potages. 
A  U  Brunoise.  A  la  puree  de  grouses. 


2  Poiasons. 

Le  brochet  farci  au  four,  sauce  piquante. 
Les  merlans  grilles  k  la  maitre-d'hotel. 


2  Releves. 


Le  chapou  truffe  "b.  la  Periguenx. 

Le  jambon  %  la  broche,  sauce  Madere. 


4  Entreea. 

Les  cdtelettes  de  perdreaux  k  la  Marechale. 
Les  escalopes  de  foies  gras  aux  fines  herbes. 
Lea  boudins  de  volaille  a  la  Lucullus. 
Les  ris  de  veau  piques  k  la  chicoree. 


Second  Service. 
faisans.  [2  Rots."]  Les  macreuses. 


2  Relevea. 


Les  gauffres  it  la  Flamande. 

Le  vol-au-vent  dc  fruit  a  la  creme  ^lacee. 


6  Entremets* 

Les  pommes  de  terre  a  la  Duchesse. 
Les  choux  de  Bruxelles  au  gratin. 
La  creme  Bavaroise  a  la  framboise. 
La  timbale  de  nouilles  a  la  vanille. 
La  gelee  de  pieds  de  veau  aux  raisins 
I<es  Florentines  a  la  reine-claude. 


i94  BILLS   OF  FARB 


DiNNEB  FOB  14  PEB80NB.    December. 

2  8oup». 
Macaroni  k  la  royale.  Tendons  of  veal  a  la  jardiniere. 


2  Fishes, 

Torhay  soles  in  matelote  Normande. 
Grilled  turbot,  brown  caper  sauce. 


2  Removes. 

Mutton  pie  It  I'lrlandaise. 

Boast  pheasants  larded  k  la  financi.^. 


4  Entrees. 

Supreme  of  fowls  k  Tecarlate. 
Saunis  of  wild  fowl  k  la  Proven^ale. 
Fillets  of  beef  sautes  k  I'EspagnoIe. 
Bissolettes  of  game  k  I'ltalienne. 


Second  Codbse. 
Woodcocks.  [2  Roasts."]  Larks. 


2  Removes, 
Vanilla  souffle.  Iced  biscuits,  with  marasebiniK 


6  Entremets. 

Seakale  with  bechamel  sauce.  Apples  k  la  PortngaiM. 

Italian  salad  in  an  aspic  border.  Ginger  pudding. 

Orange  jelly  in  quarters.  Nougat  of  almonds  k  U 

Chantilly. 


FOfi  DSOlEMBflB.  495 


DtMiBK  DB  14  CouYEBTs.     DSccmbre, 


2  Fotoffes. 

Le  macaroni  a  la  royale. 

Les  tendons  de  veau  k  la  jardiniere. 


2  PoisMona, 

Les  filets  de  soles  k  la  Normande. 
Le  turbot,  sauce  aux  capres. 


2  Releves, 

Le  pat^  de  mouton  a  I'lrlandaise. 
Les  faisans  piques  rotis  k  la  finanoi^re. 


4  Entrees. 

Le  supreme  de  volaille  a  I'ecarlate. 
Le  salmis  de  canards  sauvages  k  la  Proyen9alo. 
Les  filets  de  bcBuf  sautes  k  r  Espagnole. 
Les  lis&olettes  de  gibier  k  Tltalienne. 


Second  Service. 
Let  b^casses.  [2  RoU^  Les  mauviettes. 


Releves. 
ouffle  a  la  vanille.  Les  petits  biscuits  glaoes  au  marasquin. 


6  Entremets, 

choux  de  mer  k  la  bechamel.  Les  pommes  k  la  Portugaita 

alade  Italicnne  en  bordure.  Le  pudding  de  gingembre. 

relee  d'oranges  en  quartiers.  Le  nougat  d'amanaes  a  la 

Chantilly. 


196  BILLS  or   FAUE. 

ChSISTMAS   DlKlfSB. 

Turtle  soup. 


2  Fishet. 
'lurbot  a  la  Vatel.  Fillets  of  soles  a  la  Tartar  a. 


3  Hemoves. 

lioast  turkey  Perigueuz  sauce.  Braized  ham  a  la  jardiniere. 

Spiced  round  of  beef. 


4  Entrees. 

Marrow  patties.  Sweetbreads  a  la  St.  Cloud. 

Salmis  of  pheasants  a  la  financiere.       Mutton  cutlets  a  la  YicomteiKf. 


Second  Course. 
Woodcocks.  [2  Roasts.']  Grouse. 


Mince  pies.  [2  Removes.]  Plum  pudding. 


6  JEntremets. 

Broccoli  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Italian  cream. 

Salad  h  la  Rachel.  Croutes  a  Tananas. 

Punch  jelly.  Meringue  a  la  Paridennc 


497 


GLOSSARY. 


AUemaade^Redaoed  or  concentrated  white  veloattf  sauce,  thickeiied 
with  cream  and  yolks  of  egg,  and  seasoned  with  natmeg  and  leinon*jnioe» 

Angelica — is  a  plant,  the  tender  tubular  branches  of  which,  aftei 
being  preserved  in  syrup,  are  used  for  the  purpose  of  decorating  entre- 
mets, &c. 

Baba — ^A  kind  of  very  light  plum-cake. 

Bechamel — is  velout^  sauce,  boiled  down  with  cream  in  equal  parts. 
This  sauce  takes  its  name  from  a  celebrated  cook. 

Bisqne — A  soup  generally  made  with  shell-fish. 

"WftTiftii — To  parboil :  to  scald  vegetables,  &c.,  in  order  to  remove  their 
hulls  or  skins,  such  as  almonds,  &c. 

Bondin — A  delicate  kind  of  entr^,  prepared  with  quenelle  foixxmeat, 
or  mince. 

Bonqnet — Garnished,  or  &ggot,  consists  of  a  handful  of  parsley,  six 
gi-een  onions,  a  small  bay-lea^  tCtid  a  sprig  of  thyme,  neatly  tied  together 
with  twine. 

Braize,  Mirepoiz,  Marinade,  Poele,  Blanc,  are  various  l^ds  of  compounds, 
used  for  imparting  flavour  to  braized  meats,  and  also  for  keeping  calf  s-heads, 
poultry,  &c.  white,  while  they  are  being  braized. 

Braizing — signifies  a  slow  process  of  simmering,  or  stewing,  over  a 
smothered  charcoal  fire. 

Brioche — A  species  of  light,  spongy  cake^  resembling  Bath  buns. 

Caramel — Burnt  sugar,  occasionally  used  as  a  makeshift  for  colouring. 

Charlotte — Consists  generally  of  thin  slices  of  bread,  steeped  in  clarified 
butter,  and  placed  in  symmetrical  order  in  a  plain  mould  garnished  with 
finit  or  preserve. 

Chartrense  of  YegetaUee — a  mixed  preparation  of  yegctables  sym- 
metrically and  tastefully  arranged  in  a  plain  mould,  the  interior  of  which 
is  garnished  with  game,  quails,  pigeons,  larks,  fillets,  scollopsy  or  ieodaDM^ 

2k 


498  GLOSSABT. 

Chartxeme  a  la  Pariaiaiiiie,  ftc. — An  ornamental  entr^  or  ride-dkhf 
composed  chiefly  of  quenelle  forcemeat ;  the  interior  being  garnished  with 
ragodts,  scollops,  &c. 

Gompote — generally  means  confectioned  froits,  preserved  in  symp,  or 
apple  and  any  other  kind  of  fruit  jelly ;  this  word  is  also  used  to  designate 
certain  savoury  dishes,  prepared  with  pigeons,  quaila,  or  lario — miied  with 
peas,  or  mushrooms,  &c. 

Oonioaiilia — Clear,  strong  broth,  much  used  in  the  preparation  of  soups, 
sauces,  &c. 

Gcmtife — ^When  small  scollops  of  trufiles,  red  tongue,  kc^  are  inbid, 
as  ornaments,  by  incision,  in  fillets  of  any  kind,  they  are  said  to  be  oootisdi. 

Croqnettef  and  Biiaolei — A  preparation  of  mince,  with  a  hmA- 
crumbed  coating.    These  words  both  signify  something  crisp. 

CroqaantOf — A  bright  mixture  of  froit  and  boiled  sugar. 

Croustadei,  PHt^is-chauds,  Tourtes,  Tiinbale,  Casseroles  of  rice.  Varioas 
ornamental  pie-cases,  made  either  of  paste  or  prepared  rice. 

Croutona — Sippets  of  bread  of  various  sizes  and  shapes,  fried  in 
clarified  butter,  and  used  to  garnish  salmis,  fricass^ies,  dressed  regetabks, 
&c. ;  they  are  also  served  with  certain  soups,  chiefly  with  purees. 

Ck>ld  Entreei — ^These  consist  of  fricassees,  salmis,  cutlets,  ham, 
tongue,  fillets  of  game,  poultry,  and  fish,  aspics,  salads  of  poultry,  fish  or 
shell-fish,  boars'-heads,  potted  meats,  &c.  They  are  appropriate  for  ball- 
suppers,  public  breakfasts,  and  upon  all  occasions  where  a  cold  collation  is 
served. 

Entreei — A  conventional  term  for  side-dishes,  comprising  cutlets, 
fricassees,  fricandeaux,  fillets,  scollops,  salmis,  boudins,  sweetbreads,  p&tes- 
chauds,  chartreuses/  &c. 

Entremets — or  second-course  side-dishes,  consist  of  four  distinct  sorts, 
namely  : — cold  entrees,  dressed  vegetables,  scolloped  shell-fish  and  dreand 
oggs;  and  lastly,  of  the  infinitely-varied  class  of  sweets,  consisting  of  pud- 
dings, gateaux,  timbales,  sweet  croquettes,  charlottes,  croquanies,  pastries, 
jellies,  creams,  fritters,  &c. 

Espagnole  and  Velonte— The  two  main  sauces  from  which  all  othcn 
are  marie  :  the  first  is  brown  and  the  other  white. 

Fanchonnette  and  Florentines— Varieties  of  small  pastry  meringued 
over. 

Farce — 1»  a  coarse  kind  of  forcemeat  used  for  raised  pies  aad 
orratitis. 

Flans,  Barioles,  and  Mirlitons— Varieties  of  French  cheese-cakes. 

Fricandeaux  and  Orenadins — Consist  of  the  primest  parts  of  real  or 


GLOSSABT.  499 

fillets  of  poultiy,   &c.,  smoothly  trimmed,  larded,  and  brightly  glazed 
with  a  concentration  of  their  own  liquor :  they  are  served  as  sidenlishes. 

Frioassee-Hwnsists  of  chickens  cut  in  pieces  and  prepared  in  a  white 
sauce,  with  truffles,  mushrooms,  cocks'-combs,  &c.,  as  accessories. 

Gavffires — A  light  spongy  sort  of  biscuit. 

Olace — Anything  iced ;  this  word  is  also  sometimes  used  figuratively  by 
French  cooks  to  signify  a  smooth  glossy  surface. 

Gratixu — A  term  applied  to  consolidated  soups  and  sauces;  also  to 
certain  dishes  of  high  character,  consisting  of  game,  poultry,  fish,  v^e- 
tables,  or  macaroni,  &c.,  improved  by  great  care  and  finish,  through  the 
use  of  concentrated  sauces  or  gravies. 

Hors-d'OBUVree  (hot), — A  species  of  very  light  entr^s,  such  as  pattief 
of  all  kinds,  rissoles,  croquettes,  scolloped  fish,  shell-fish,  macaroni,  poultry, 
game,  sweetbreads,  brains,  ox-piths,  fiorlys  of  fish,  poultry,  or  game,  &c. 

Hors-d'oBUTres  {cold).  These  should  be  eaten  immediately  after  the 
soup  and  fish ;  they  are  considered  as  appetisers,  or  whets  to  the  appetite, 
and  consist  of  sardines,  anchovies,  tunny,  Dutch-herrings,  savoury  butters, 
oysters,  oiled  salads. 

Jardiniere  ^A  mixed  preparation  of  vegetables  stewed  down  in  their  own 
sauce. 

Luting-— A  paste  made  of  fiour  and  water,  and  used  for  fastening  the 
lids  on  to  pie-pans  when  preserving  game,  &c.,  in  order  to  prevent 
evaporation. 

Haoedoine — of  vegetables  is  a  Jardiniere,  with  the  addition  of  some 
kind  of  white  sauce. 

Macedoine  of  Fruit — A  kind  of  jelly. 

Madeleine — Resembling  queen-cake. 

Uatelote — ^A  dish  of  mixed  firesh-water  fish,  sometimes  of  one  kind 
only,  as  eels. 

Ueringnes — A  kind  of  light  trific. 

Kignionette  Pepper — A  preparation  from  either  white  or  black  pepper, 
uoras,  which,  afler  being  broken,  chopped,  or  ground  coarse,  so  as  to  re- 
semble mignionette-seed,  should  be  sifled  in  order  to  remove  the  dust. 

Kongat — A  mixture  of  almonds  and  sugar. 

Konilles — ^A  kind  of  vermicelli. 

Faner — to  bread-crumb. 

Fannre— Cutlets,  scollops,  croquettes,  or  any  other  entr^  that  is 
bread-crumbed. 

PipJTig — A  kind  of  decoration  made  of  icing,  used  for  ornamenting 
cakes,  pastry-stands,    small  pastry,  &c.    It  is    thus    efiected:   take    3 

2k2 


500  GL088ARY. 

short  fiumd  or  conicallf-flhaped  iostmraent  of  tiii,  and  insert  the 
within  a  lai^o^eized  and  similarly  shaped  pi^per  ftinnel  or  comet,  the 
pointed  end  of  which  must  be  cut  ofl^  so  as  to  allow  the  tin  inttrameiit  to 
protrule ;  plaoe  the  idng  or  glanng  (a  miitore  of  finelj-powdered  sogar 
and  miite  of  egg  worked  into  a  smooth  and  firm  paste)  in  the  osnet  or 
forcer,  the  upper  part  of  which  mnst  be  oompletelj  closed ;  the  glasing  is 
then  forced  out  at  the  point  by  pressure  of  the  thuiid>  on  the  upper  pan 
of  the  comet. 

Plnohe,  or  Flvdit— the  leaves  of  parsley,  diervil,  tarragon,  iettnee, 
or  sorrel,  snipped  or  cut  small ;  these  are  used  mixed  or  s^paratdy, 
according  to  directions. 

FrofltroUef — A  light  kind  of  pastry,  creamed  inside. 

Puree — A  kind  of  pulpy  maceration  of  roasted  meats,  and  of  T^e- 
tables,  or  fruits  finished  by  being  passed  through  a  tammy  or  siere. 

Qnenelle — ^A  delicate  kind  of  forcemeat,  used  in  tha  prepaiatiaB  of 
entr^,  &c, 

Bagont — A  ridli  compound,  consisting  of  quendles,  mnshroomi, 
truffles,  fat  livers,  Ac,  mixed  in  a  rich  sauce,  and  uaed  for  g^rniAing 
highly-finished  removes  and  entr^. 

Xcdeves  or  Bemoves — ^The  top  and  bottom  dishes  (as  they  are  desig- 
nated in  England),  served  to  replace  the  soup  and  fish  on  ordinary  tables. 
These  usually  consist  of  roast  joints,  turkeys,  capcms,  highly  or  plainly 
dressed  fillets,  or  rolls,  &c.  of  beef,  cairs-heads,  &c. 

Bonz — A  mixture  of  fi^sh  butter  and  flour,  which,  after  beii^  baked, 
is  used  for  thickening  sauces. 

Salmis — A  highly-fiuibhed  hash,  made  with  game  or  wild4bwl,  cut  up 
and  prepared  in  either  a  rich  gravy,  or  sauce. 

Sante — Cutlets,  scollops  of  game,  poultry,  or  fish,  ftc,  lightly  filed  ia 
butter. 

Souffles — ^The  word  souffle  means  strictly  something  pfuffed  up^  and 
is  generally  applied  to  a  light  kind  of  pudding,  served  as  a  remove  to 
second-course  roasts  ;  it  is  made  with  any  kind  of  fannaoeous  substaooes, 
and  may  be  iiavoured  with  either  fruits,  liqueurs,  or  essences. 

Trifle — A  second-course  dish,  composed  of  sponge-cake,  flMcaroeai, 
firuit-jaros,  custai-d,  whipped  cream,  brandy  and  other  liqueurs. 

Turbans  and  Mazarines — Ornamental  entr^  made  of  forcaniatii 
and  fillets  of  either  game,  poultry,  or  fish. 

Vol-^u-vent— A  figurative  expression  applied  to  poff-paste  of  Ik 
lightest  kind. 


—  mvtotAt  Reo^  Bed  (to  Pagt. 


milk,  or  orgata 

AocboTiti  ...  . 
AndiDFj  butl«r  , 
eanopae* 

kNUt    ...     . 

An|[dica,  to  pnurre  gnai  , 


Apple  chnjlotte     .. 
. 'firittara...    '.'. 


■ — --  poddiog       

ttrt  wllh  qnJDoa  ...  . 

toilleta       

Apriootn,  to  botUa  ...  , 
Aprkot  biBulti  .„  ...  , 
,  oompolc  of  .„    ,.,  , 


— ,  ITArtois  of 

—.dried 

— ,  Qanuui  tonrM  of 


rtichokei  ii  U  Buigook     ... 


jelly,  hun  with    .„ 

jelly,  toogue  willk 


Bacon  and  chicken,  i 

Bakudcid'iliMd  ".'.". 
cod-Geh,  AaSti 

huddock"     ".'. 


502 


INDSX. 


No. 

Batter,  Italian  firyiDg    291 

novel  kinds  of  frying   ..,     290 

Beans,  broad,  k  la  Cr6me     ...     688 

French,  k  la  maitre  d'hdtel  686 

— ,  French,  preserved       ...     958 

,  French,  with  fine-herbs       687 

,  white  haricot,  k  la  Brfi- 


tonne ...     ...     ...     •••     ... 

-,  white  haricot,  k  la  maltre- 


d'hdtel 
-,  Windsor,  preserved 


Bechamel  cream  sauce  ... 
sauce,  white         ... 

'  turbot,  k  la 

Beef,  aitch-bone  of,  boiled 
,  au  gratin     

-,  ooUops, 


— ,  collops,  boiled     ...     ... 

— ,  fillet  of,   braized  k  la 

Milton       

— ,  fillet  of,  larded    

fillets  of,  k  la  Napo- 


litaine  ... 

,  fillet  of,  k  la  Richelien 

,  fillet  of,  k  la  Soubise  ... 

-,  thin  Hank  of,  rolled     ... 


701 

700 
959 
16 
15 
196 
384 
538 
536 
537 

392 
389 

390 
391 
585 
385 


-,  hashod,         526-527 

hashed,    with     pickled 


walnuts 

— ,  hunting       

— ,  minced         

— ,  mironton  of         

— ~^,  presscu        ...     ...     ... 

— ,  ribs  of,  k-la-mode 

— ,  roast  ribs  of        

braized    roll    of,  k   la 


B^maise 
— ,  boiled,  round  of  ... 
— ,  roast  sirloin  of  ... 
— ,  rump  of,  stewed ... 
— ,  spiced  potted 
— f  vinegaret  of  ... 
■^"^  tea        •.•     ...     ... 


Bee&teak  with  anchovy  butter 

k  la  Chateaubriand 

klaFran9aise       

— ,  epicurean    

and  oyster  pic     


525 
396 
529 
539 
393 
388 
382 

386 
383 
381 
387 
944 
541 
973 
583 
582 
581 
584 
500  I 


Beefsteak  ana  ulster  pudding 
Beetroot    and    Spanish    onion 

Saiafl  (*«       ma.        •••       •••       ••! 

Beverage,  almond  milk 

Bills  of  Fare  for  every  Month 
iu  the  Year       ...     ...  page 

Biscuits,  Albert     

,  apricot         

,  brown  bread        

,  Brussels,  or  m^ks 

,  champagne  

,  cinnamon     

}  cream ...     ...     ...     ... 

,  devilled       

,  finger,  or  Naples         ... 

I  w^eci     ...     ...     ...     ... 

f  Italian ...     ...     ...     ... 

,  orange 

",  peacn  ...      ...      ...      ... 


-,  Russian 
-,  Sicilian 
-,  Victoria 
-,  Venetian 


Black-currant  jelly        

Black  game  k  la  royale 

"""-^  )  roasi  ...     ,,,     ... 

Blanc-manger        

Bleeding  of  the  nose,  to  stop... 

Bloaters,  potted    

,  Yai-mouth 

Boar's  head,  German  sauce  for 
Boiled  aitch-bone  of  beef       ... 

,  roimdofbeef      

,  capon  ...     ...     ...     ... 

cod  a  la  religieuse 

,  fowls  k  la  cai-dinal 

,  gurnet         

,  haddock,  egg-sauce     ... 

,  mackerel      

,  mackerel   k   la   maitre 

d'hotel       

,  leg  of  mutton      

,  rabbit  and  bacon 

,  salmon,  plain      

,  salmon,  Scotch  fashion 

^~"~^j   SOlcS      •••        •••         •••        ••• 

,  sturgeon  k  la  Bourgnig- 

UOltc  ••■    •••    •••    •••    ••• 


Ik> 

506 

371 
983 

454 
780 
775 
770 
749 
772 
903 
912 
337 
745 

1053 
767 
773 
774 
779 
778 
781 
768 
994 
475 
663 
857 

1083 
947 
329 
31 
384 
383 
472 
224 
624 
246 
229 
249 

250 
411 
639 
200 
209 
233 

211 


INDKX. 


No. 
BoOed  sturgeon  Ilia cAniinal...     215 

^,  sturgeon  k  la  rojmle    ...     217 

^,  trout,  plain 210 

^— ,  trout  k  TAurore 213 

f  trout,  with  Genoese  sauce  212 

,  turbot,  plain       191 

— ,  turkey 467 

turkey  a  la  Yorkshii-e  ...     468 

Bombe,  iced ... 


Bon-bons 

— —  chocolate      ...     •. 

~^^~^  coitee    •.«     •.•     •• 

Bones,  devilled       

,  grilled 

Bonnes-bouches     

Bonne  femme  soup  .. 
Border  of  rice  k  la  Reine 
Bottle,  to,  apricots 

,  cherries        

— — ,  currants       ...     .. 

— — ,  damsons 

,  goosebeiTies 

,  greengages, 

,  Orleans  plums     ,. 

^""■~^,  peacnes        ...     . . 

,  pine-apples 

— — ,  raspberries 

-,  strawberries 


Boudins  of  fowl  k  la  Lucullus 

of  grouse  k  la  Stanley  ... 

—  of  pheasant  k  la  Richelieu 
Bouillabaisse  or  Proven9al  soup 

Bourguignotte  sauce      

Braized  celery  with  brown  sauce  666 

fillet  of  beef  k  la  M  ilton       392 

roU  of  beef  k  la  Bearnaise    386 


1054 
1004 
1009 
1010 
531 
530 
357 
161 
521 
874 
873 
870 
878 
869 
876 
877 
875 
879 
871 
872 
627 
628 
626 
178 
60 


leg  of  mutton 
ox-cheek       ... 
loin  of  veal  ... 
neck  of  veal ... 


Brandy-smash       

Brawn  sauce,  cold 

Bread-and-butter  pastry 
Bread-crumbs       ...  -  ... 
— ^^""""j  ineQ    ...     ...     ... 

Bread  panada        ...     ... 

pudding,  plain     ... 

— ,  pulled  crisp        ••• 


412 
395 
405 
399 
1015 
30 
793 
...  295 
71-296 
...  184 
...  831 
•••  332 


... 

... 
... 


••• 

•  a. 

•  «. 


Bread  sauce  •••    «.. 

Breast  of  mutton  grilled       ... 

of  veal  k  la  Chipolata  „. 

—  of  veal  k  la  Printanitee 

Bretby  sandwiches        

Bretonne  sance 

Brill      , 

Brioche-paste 

Broad  beans  k  la  Crdme 

Broths  and    stocks,    how    to 
cJaniy       •«.     ...     ...     ... 

Broths  and  stocks,  second,  eco- 
nomy of 

Broth,  chicken       

,  invigorating        

,  mucilaginous       

,  mutton 

,  pectoral 

,  restorative 

,  Scotch... 


503 

No. 

70 

594 

410 

409 
360 
56 
198 
737 
688 

6 

14 
...  976 
...  781 
...  980 
155,  974 
...  979 

...   "o^ 

...  156 


Brown  and  Poison  souffle  pud- 
Q^i^g  •..     ...     ...     ...     ... 

Brown  bread  biscuits    

bread  ice      

bread  pudding      

butter  sauce         

caper  sauce 

colouring      

^^""^  g^  y  •••    •••    •••    •»• 

—— Matelote  sauce      , 

oyster  sauce 

^~— ^  sauce    ...     ...     ,,,     ,,, 

thickening  for  sauces   ... 

Bilhioise  soup       

Brusi>els  biscuits  or  rusks 

sprouts         

Batter  for  frying 

Bubble  and-squeak        

Bums  or  scalds,  cure  for      •.. 
Burnt  almonds      ...     ...     •.. 

pistachio  pr&lines. 

Butter,  anchovy    

,  epicurean    ...     ,. 


... 
••• 


... 


992a 

770 

1044^ 

822 

54 

25 

76 

3 

86 

44 

12 

9 

134 

749 

707 

288 

532 

1076 

1004 

1005 

128 

130 

129 

127 


-,  lobster... 

-,  mattre  d'h6tel 

-,  melted,  or  butter  saace  15, 39 

•,  salsifis  fried  in    669 

-  sauce*  brown        ••«    •«•      54 


=:ar;:: 

D'Artok      ... 


.gfng" 

.Fariibii      ...    . 

,pl"" 

.PolUi 

',  Qii«a'(      ...    , 

—',StTOJ 

.Md     

,  Spukh,  PetiU-d 

,  Turin 


,  VMorw       ' 

Ctlft  bimiu  fHed 

,  Id  cum  ma  giMa 

litinvigoUc     ... 

,  Willi    nnli-brown 

butUr       : 

Calfi  fnt,  fried     I 

k  U  boargeoiu   ... 

klapODlBttc       ...     . 

—  —  jdir  I 


— ,  aafVUM'... 


Carllnn-hoiHe  Mup 
Cup,M(d    

,  itcnd         ...     . 

J  (tufinl  ud  hikti 
CwTDti,  glati      ...     ,. 

uop  It  b  Ciwj  . 


with  vhlte  HUKt... 


C«lei7kUViU«roi 


Chipi,  BsUi ... 
Ctai,  grilM ... 


ChBriotl«,  apple     

,  BuMian       

CWtreait  of  partiidgw 

Chaud  frsid,  frlcUNte  ... 

CbMsetvkel  

CbNM,  canopeei 


CWriM,  dried      

8B7 

CUrifr,  itocks  nnd  broth*      .. 

Ct.rrjringfc 

1012 

— .  "r"P 

BOM      

95 

CI«.rgiblet>oup 

witer 

1033 

mterioe     

926 

Cochioeal,  how  to  eilnct  the 

Chmtsuts,  oompoU  of  ...     , 

902 

coloara™        

gi«ei 

podding       

S2S 

Cock-t«l       

— .I-uA«f      

115 

c«*y-i«kr 

soup    , 

180 

Cod,  crimped,  OJfterMOCO   ... 

fried  4  k  Poitugaise    ... 

CUcIkd  md  bacon,  boiltd    . 

473 

griUed  k  la  Colbert      ... 

ud  bun  pie         ...     . 

495 

Muffed,  baked       

«Hiri«        

ftUCrtme 

utdtongne 

479 

ilaDiippobe      

ud  »np«  )t  U  MacA 

41-lndienne 

doine...     „.     

479 

bluKligiause       

broth    

B7S 

hfadhtiked 

ChlckenaiilabelkTne...     . 

929 

Cuffee,  how  to  make      

621 

bon-booa       

blsMiluudx       ...     . 

bbRomaioe      ...    4 

7.625 

cream  iM      '.'.'.     '.'.'.     '.'.'. 

kUTsrl.™ 

622 

aouffld 

cutlets  k  la  Daaphine  . 

61B 

Cold  brown  eauco 

friaa^ot,  k  li  HbtcIocI 

t     620 

panada 

B77 

eiitre-Hi.  or  chicken,  lob- 

 «lBd,ormayoiuu»      . 

929 

ster,  and  iieh  lalads  or  mar- 

ChiSbnnite  loup     

135 

1079 

marinnie  pickle    

Cbine  of  poik    

448 

ColdJ,  coaling  poEset  for       ... 

1029 

■■  in  the  head,  cure  for    .,. 

C9i)polBta  ragout  ...    ...    . 

123 

C°ld-waler  paste  for  raiwd  nea 

Ch(p8.EefQrm        

103 

Co!lop8,b«F 

Chocolate  boa-boiu       „,     . 

1009 

,  Kolloped      

.     862 

.Scotefi         

. cream  ic«     

1051 

Colouring,  brown 

gl"d     

.     776 

Compifegns  take    

Cbopa,  lamb 

Compote  of  Applei         

.     654 

cfSriM         '.'.'.     '.'.'.     '.'.'. 

■—.pork    

546 

460 

chestiiDd      

ChrWmupie       '.".    '.'.'.    '. 

728 

fruits  for  desserta 

Cinnunonbiscnit.        ...    . 

90S 

CTutra  fritters        

810 

orangea        

CiTctofkreret     

S47 

P«che. 

Claret  mnitD      

103S 

pears    

Ckrifj,  how  to,  ialDglBis     . 

S43 

506 


Compote  of  itrawieiTiefl       ... 

iced  finite  for      

Coad^  cakes  «•     •••     • 

Confectiooarj  and  presenring 
Consomm^  with  quenelles    ... 
Cookery  for  invalids  and  in&nts 

Cornucopia 

Course,  second,  roasts 

Crab  sonp      •     

Cradced  b'ps,  cure  for    

Cracklings     •••     •••     

Crayfish  soap        

Cream,  almond,  sauce 

•^^  B&bamel  sauce • 

■  different  kinds  of 

^^^^■"  ices       •••     •••     •••     •«• 

— —  apricot ., 

— ^  Bavarian      

"^"^^■*    DlSCUllBasa         asc         «««  »s« 

— ^  caramel        

celestine       

^-^  chocolate      ...     , 

""^^^  conee    •••     •••     ■••     #•• 

—  currant  and  raspberry  ... 

—— ice,  apricot   •••     

^-^  ice,  chocolate        

~""^~^  Ice,  conee     •••     •••     ... 


138 

973 

754a 

,..     652 

...     170 

,..  1080 

,..     905 

...     171 

>..       vo 

...       16 

...     857 

...  1043 

860-868 

>..     8oo 

...     912 

,..     865 

...     866 

...     862 

...     861 

867 

1045 

1051 

1050 


No.  I  Be 

900  I  Cucumber  salad    • 36S 

915  k  la  Espagnole     697 

788  klapoulette         696 

869 ;  Cure  bacon,  how  to       %35 

hams,  how  to       ...     ...     734 

for  bums  or  scalds       ...  1076 

chapped  hands      1086 

chilblains      1079 

colds  in  the  head 1075 

cracked  lips  in  winter         1080 
sprains  1077 


-  ice,  currant  and  raspberry  1048 

-ice,  ginger    

.  ice,  pine-apple      ...     , 
.  ice,  strawberry     ...     , 
■  JuUian,*..     ...     ...     < 

-,  pastry,  or  custard 

-,  strawberry 

-.  lemons  filled  with       , 


Crimped  cod,  oy»rter  sauce 

Croquante-paste     

Croquets  of  lobster 
■         macaroni       ...     ... 

.     meat  or  fish 


oyKters 


Croustade  of  larks ... 

marrow 

of  quenelles  .,, 

Cucumber  for  sauce 

gamihh 

glac^ 

,  remoulade  of 


••• 


1043 
1046 
1047 
804 
790 
859 
856 
220 
956 
317 
353 
315 
318 
524 
322 
627 
960 
106 
891 
971 


the  sting  of  a  wasp  or  bee  1082 


tooth-ache 

^^"•"^  ^r ai  IS      ...       ... 

Currant,  black,  jelly 

,  red,  jelly      ... 

,  white,  jelly  ... 

-^""^^  water   ...     ... 

— — .  to  bottle 


1085 
1081 
994 
993 
997 
1034 
870 


and  raspberry  jelly      845,  996 


and  raspberry  cream 

and  raspberry  cream  ice 

■        and  raspberry  water  ice 
Curried  rabbit  and  rice , 

^^^^^"  ZTC6  •••        •••        •••        ••< 

Curries,  plain  boiled  rice  for 

Curry  sauce , 

Cushion  of  veal     , 

k  la  St.  Cloud      

a  la  St,  George     

Custard  fritters     

,  pastry,  or  cream 

Savoy..! 


867 

1048 

925 

643 

301 

227 

85 

401 

403 

402 

813 

790 

992D 

Cutlets,  chicken,  k  la  Datiphine    618 

,  gi'ouse,  a  la  Glengarry         635 

,  Jamb     ...  577,  578,  611,  612 

,  mutton        597-600 

,  mutton,  plain      555 

,  mutton,  bread-crumbed      55^ 

f  pork    ...     ...     ...     ...    *>4i 

of  roebuck    „,     ...     ...    463 

,  sweetbread 5W 

,  veal,    604-606 

,  veal,  with  mushrooms       564 


Dace,  barbel,  and  roach 

Damsons,  to  bottle 
jam 


••* 


276 

878 

1000 


Drtnla,  Am«riciui 

.  Contliwnl*!.   in   t 

mtai  vf  typhiia  fevor 


Dry  y«Tors  


Duck.  wild.    .<«  Wild  Fowl  h 
In  ChAW*iir,  64S  -,  AiuBnoia 
fiuhion,  (>4l> ;  i.  la  fiigarnidt     i 
Durka  bmlinl  with  tumin  .,.     ■ 

itewfd  b  I'EspBgnoli 

«tewpd  with  peai 

Daloh  dmia ', 


Dutch  harrlogi     ...    .«    ...  S; 

D*Uielln  ■tnra    *.*'    .'."    '.'.'.  ', 

BanBngne d( 

I'" mrr...,hu.p[(ijnllj 

iTmUiv-a'hBWmuca     „.  ! 

Btock    

ucond  itocki  or  bioOu  I 

whltauuoe 1 

K.I.,'.  I.iin.-.it'l.ivl',   .SVflAitch-boM 

K.I-,.io,  liiJiuinnrl TS 

i.-'Ib,  »piii:htod<o] at 

'.NteivHi 2i 

,  ttswed,  wliitu     21 

-; illnTarUre         25 

I'' ft» ,  ditre  nu  tiQKlliodiiof  dnu* 


with  trufflM 

&  la  Aiinr*  ... 

k  I*  Duupiiliie 

klnTrip*    ... 

kUSuiu*  ... 

E(trn<W      


mijoDalsM... 
f.pry-dny  liiro 


EitncloTgUDafor  gnvj   , 


508 


Ho, 
FlZ6|     bills    Of^    fiV     9WWJ 

numtli  iA  the  year   (page)  454 

Fennel  sauce 52 

Flammish  leek       517 : 

Florentine  &8hlon  for  rioe     •••  306  ' 

Floster t 1028 

Fillet  of  beef,  Uided      389 

— ^—  k  U  Napolitaine 390 

— -"  k  la  Richelieu       391 

—  k  la  Soubise 585 

of  Bsh  fried  in  batter   ...  243 

of  fowl  with  aspangtu 

peas   ...     •.•     ...     .••     ..•  Oxo 

— ^  of  gurnet     ^ ••  248 

of  haddock    232 

——^  of  mackerel  k  la  maltre- 

d'botel        252 

of  mutton    601,602 

of  partridges  k  la  Thackeray  636 

of  salmon  k  Tlndienne ...  205 

k  la  Mar&hale    .. 

k  la  Rayigotte     .., 

— ilaTartare 


^^■""^  01  sole  •••     ...     •••     ••• 

^— —  of  sole,  fried         

— ^  of  sole,  i  la  Rouennaise 
^—  of  sole,  k  la  Tartare 

—  of  sole,  mayonaise  of    ... 

of  trout        

of  turbot       ...     

of  whiting  k  la  Horly  ... 

Financi^re  ragout ... 

"~~^^~  sauce     ...     ...     ...     ... 

Fine-herbs  sauce    

Finger,  or  Naples  biscuits     ... 

Fish,  croquets  of 

pickled ... 

salad  or  mayonaise       ... 

'         sandwiches    

,  scollops  of 

*— —  pie  k  ia  Ste.  Teresa 

—  pie  k  la  Ste.  Ursula 

Flemish  gauffres     

^^■""^  saiau     ...     ...     ...     ... 

Food,  infants'         

Forcemeat,  economical,  or  Godi- 

vcau  ...     ...     ...     ...     ... 

«— -  for  preserving  game      ... 


206 
208 
207 
241 
242 
245 
244 
935 
214 
197 
261 
124 
24 
74 
745 
315 
344 
929 
362 
312 
514 
515 
751 
375 
992c 

190 
189 


Forcemeat  of  liver  and  ham  ftr 

raised  pies...     ...     •«•     ••«  Jioo 

of  veal,  quenelle 185 

—  of  whitings,  qnaielle    •••  186 

Fore-quarter  of  lamb,  roast  •••  430 

Fowls,  boiled,  k  la  cardinal    ...  634 

,  bonding  of,  k  la  Laculliis  627 

,  capilotada  of       651 

,   escalopes    of,    and   cu- 
cumber     ...     •••     •••     .••  617 

,  fillets  of^  with  a^afagus 

pess   ...     •••     •••    ...     •••  oxo 

,  grilled,  with  pur^  of 

mushroOTDs        •..     ...     ...  623 

,  legs  of,  i  la  WdliDgton  619 

,  mayonaise  of,      ^3 

,  quenelles  o^  a  la  so- 

pr^ne        •••    ...  692 

,  supreme  of,  Ik  la  royale  615 

,  k  U  Romanie      625 

Fowl  and  ham,  potted 940 

645,  646,  650 


k   la   mattre- 


,  wild 
French    beans, 

d'h6tel       •••     •••  686 

< ,  beans,  with  fine-herfas...  687 

,  beans  preserved 958 

French  gauffires      75'i 

— —  salad     ...     • 370 

timbale .■    ...  732 

Fricass^  chaudfroid      938 

Fricass^  of  chickens  k  la  Have- 

lOCK      ...       ...       •••       ...        ...      \}£v 

of  rabbit       •••     ...     ...    637 

71,296 

..    221 

..    222 

243 

24S 

311 

706a 

316 


Fried  bread-crumbs 
Fried  cod  k  la  IMeppoise 

k  la  Portugaise     

fillets  of  fish  in  batter ... 

fillets  of  sole         

■~--~^  oy siers ...     •.•     ...     ... 

— ^—  potatoes        ...     ...     ... 

— —  salmon  roe 

— ~"^~  soies     ...     ...     ...     ... 

Fritters,  apple       ... 

■        ,  ciuira  ...     ...     ...     ... 

,  custard        

— — ,  German       

,  orange 

,  peacn  •••     •••     ...     ... 


234 

806 
810 
81S 
815 
806 
809 


IHDEX. 


509 


FMtten,  pine-appl*       •< 
— ,  Portuguese  •••    .. 

,  pudding       •••     •< 

Fruit  jellies,  iced  •••     ., 

■    ■      soulH^ •, 

tarts  Id  genei*al    ., 

Fruits,  Mac^oine  of     • 

whole,  in  jelly 

Frying  batter        •••     • 
Fry,  venison  •••     •••     • 

,  Parsley,  how  to  , 

Galantine  of  Fonlarde 


••• 
••• 
••• 


••• 

••• 


No. 
807 
813 
814 
848 
819 
805 
847 
849 
288 
459 
948a 
932 

Gallimaufried  sheep's  heads  ..•     423 
Game,  black,  k  la  royale      •••     475 

,  devilled       ••     340 

,  forcemeat  for  preserving     189 

■  for  gravy,  ezti'act  of    ...       11 

—  Panada         •     978 

— ,  pur^  of      121 

,  removes  of  ...     ...     ...     464 

^^■^^*  SbOCK      •••      •••      •••      •••  4 

Gargle,  a,  for  sore  throat     ...  1072 
Garnish,  aspan^us  peas,  French 
beans,  small  new  potatoes, 
brocoli,  cauliflowers,  Brus- 
sels sprouts        ...     •  108 

— ,  cucumber    106 

,  green  peas  for     107 

,  pure'e  of  green  peas  for  111 

Gauffi-es,  almond 753 

,  Flemish 751 

,  French        752 

Gelatine  jelly        ..«  839 

Genoese  cake 757 

^-—  with  almonds      ...  758 

sauce    ...     ...  20 

German  fritters     815 

frying  batter        289 

•  kouglauffe    740 

—  pudding       ...     824a 

quenelles      •  356 

— ""—  salaci     ...     ...     ...     ..«  o7o 

■  sauce  for  boar's  head  ...  31 
schpeischlitz 355 

■  ■  ■  soup     •     ...     181 

Gherkins,  pickled 966 

Giblet  pie     •    •••    ••• 

—  soup,  dear •    ••• 


••• 
••• 
... 


••• 
••• 


Giblet  soup,  thick. •• 
Ginger  cakes...     ... 

cream  ice     ••• 

,  imitation  of... 

—  pudding  ... 
Gin  punch    «..    ... 

sling     

Glac^  chestnuts    ... 

,  chocolate     ... 

,  cucumbers  ... 

,  dried  pears  ... 

,  diied  fruit  ... 

— — ,  greengages  . . , 

,  melon...     ... 

,  to,  pine-apples 

Glazed  carrots  ... 
Glazed  onions  ... 
Gniocchi,  Roman  ... 
Godiveau,  an  economical  kind 

of  forcemeat      ... 

,  tourte  of     .., 

Goose  k  I'Arlesienne 

■■    ,  braized,  k  la  Jardini^e 
,  green 


...  14lA 


... 
... 
... 


••• 

... 
... 


771 
1043 
901 
827 
1041 
1014 
889 
776 
891 
882 
881 
884 
890 
881 
105 
104 
309 

190 
525 
491 
490 
661 


roast,  with  sage  and  onion  489 


GoosebeiTy  fool 

""^^""^    J»lu         •••        •••        ••• 

sauce,  green 

Gooseberries,  to  bottle  ... 

Granito  claret        

■'  punch,  iced 

,  Roman 

"^■^■"~,  snerry ...     ...     ... 

Gravy  brown         

,  extract  of  game  for 

,  shalot  ... 

Greengages,  compote  of 

glacds   .. 

,  to  bottle 


.*• 


... 


... 
•*• 
.*• 

... 


••• 

... 


... 


1049 

999 

51 

869 

1038 

927 

921 

1039 

3 

11 

64 

897 

884 

876 

661 

51 

107 

689 


Green  goose 

—  gooseberry  sauce 

peas  for  garnish 

—-  peas,  plain  „, 

—  peas,  pur^  of,  for  gamisk  111 

pea  soup       151 

ravigote  sauce      57 

499  I  Greening  spinach 72 

141  I  Grilled  bpnee        ^30 


510 


XNDZX. 


No. 

Giilled  cod  2k  la  Colbert         ...  223 

^-^  cod  k  la  Indienne 226 

fowl,  with  par^  of  mush- 
rooms       •••     623 

•^^—  haddock        •     •••  231 

mackerel,    with     brown 

batter  sauce      ...     251 

red  mullets           253 

salmon 201 

-— -  kippered  salmon 330 

— — -  sturgeon,  piquante  sauce  216 

>—  trout,  epicurean  sauce  ...  211 

turbot  h  la  Vatel 193 

Grouse  a  la  Kinnaird     474 

boudins  of,  k  la  Stanley  628 

cutlets  k  la  Glengarry  .,,  635 

•~— pie  k  la  Ecossaise 497 

— —  roast     663 

— — ^  salad     •••     «««     •••     •••  voi 

soup     148 

—  gruel,  to  prepare 992 

Guinea  fowl 665 

Gurnet,  baked        247 

,  boiled 246 

,  fillets  of      ...     248 

Haddock,  baked 230 

•         f  clri6Ci    •••     ••«     •••     •••  dol 

egg  sauce      229 

^-^-^  iiiiets    ••«     •••     •«•     •••  aoa 

,. grilled 1231 

Haggis,  Scotch       438 

Hair,  a  wash  to  prevent  falling 

on      •(•     •«.     •••     •••     •••  xUfi) 

Hamboro'  salad     380 

Ham,  baked 454 

■  different  methods  of  dress- 

ing           •••      •••          •••     •«•  44  •/ 

»  ^g8,  poached  with      ...  717 

t  glazed  with  spmach     ,,,  450 

,  how  to  cure        734 

,  how  to  roast        453 

,  how  to  select       449 

'        t  sauce   ••.     ••.     ••.     •••  o* 

,  Spanish,  how  to  dress...  452, 

>  York,  how  to  boil       ...  450 
,  Welsh 736 

■  ■    ■,  Westphalia,  how  to  dress  451 


9^ 
Ham,  with  aspic  jell  J 93C 

and  fowl  potted 940 

Hare,  baron  of,  German  fiishion  64d 

cake,  Torkshire    513 

jugged,         648 

'       ,  potted .«.     •••     a, a     ••«  v^a 

,  roast    ...     ...     ...     ...  6b'i 

t  soup      ...       ...      ...      ...      147 

,  stuflSng  for 298 

Haricot  beans,  white  k  la  Bre- 

tonne         701 

k  la  maltre  dlidtel       ...     700 

Haricot  of  ox-tail 591 

of  roebuck    462 

Hashed  beef 526-527 

with  pickled  walnuts  ...     528 

mutton,  plain       550 

EUmnch  of  mutton,  roast       ...    424 

of  red  deer 458 

of  venison,  roast 455 

Head,  cure  for  cold  in  the     ...  1075 
Herbaceous  seasoning,  aranatk    948 

Herbs,  dried 964 

Herrings,  Dutch    352 

Hodge-podge 157 

Hop  tea         1059 

Hors-d*(Buvres       301 

Horseradish  sauce 78 

Hot-water  paste  for  raised  pies    949 

Hunting  beef        39*5 

Hyssop  tea    1067 

Iced  biBenits       1053 

bombe 1054 

,  brown  bread        1(44 

,  cream 1043 

,  apricot. 1045 

,  chocolate     1051 

,  coffee 1050 

,  currant  and  raspberry       1C48 

,  ginger         104o 

,  pine-apple lOW 

,  strawberry ,.  1047 

^-^  fruits  for  compotes      ...    915 

fruit  jellies 848 

Plombi6res 1057 

— —  pudding  k  la  Nesselrode     104 
punch,  granito     W7 


l<>(dUMuiu,itoi>Hii    

938 

Jelli«,upic          

Muffle- 

I0S2 

—,»^  ham  with... 

>IIO0£M            

fl03 

,  tongua  with        ... 

I<:eI>ndmo»i  jelly         

loee 

b«,  water.  diflereDtkritdg  of 

816 

,  blML-^unant       ... 

Icowiitsr,  Buciuit     

.olfifert    

.«h."T        

.  currant  and  raspben 

.currant and  rojpberry.. 

825 

.fruit,  iced 

.lemon 

817 

,  gelatine       

.melon         

820 

.oranp        

916 

lisingiaa        ...     '.'.'. 

,  p«ch 

921i 

918 

'.  kmon/fillai  with" 

.mirijchino 

921 

ImiliUlon  nl  i;ingr!r        

90* 

IndiMi  pooloot       

328 

;  orangf.  tilled  with 

—  F^^j;     

327 

.m^" 

73 

,  pine-apple 

Infimt.' food  "!    '.'.'.    '.'.'._  '.'. 

992c 

.punch 

InfuBionor roses    '  .. 

:™pter,7    

InMtitutioD  (>Ui>      

1021 

,  red  currant 

Invalid,  nnd  infauM,  MJokery  for    97 J 

,  RuBian        

,  light  ptiddingftr        .. 

892b 

InTigontiog  broth       

981 

;  white  currant    ... 

361 

,  whole  fruit*  in    ... 

594A 

Jerusalem  artiohokea     ... 

l3inglns.]inwtnclsrifr 

843 

&  nialienne 

jdiy    

984 

JohnDorj     

llalian  biscuits      

767 

Jugged  hate 

864 

jiep,  mint 

frjiDg  batter        

291 

=i^.^r ;:;  :;:  :: 

167 

jLlk.„,..>oi,p       

«lad    

373 

Sidney  podding 

23 

"""P     

182 

Kipf'ertd  ialmnn  pilled 
KiiiokeTl>i'i"Jii.T       ... 

TuuBndjelllu 

993 

Knockleofveal  and  rices 

1001 

Kouslaufle,  German     ... 

Kiomenkjs,  Ruisian      ... 

igoosebeny 

999 

,«.pUrrr    

Ladiea' dBllglit   

J«rfiiii*re      

102 

I.Limb  chops,  brenJ.id    ... 

toup     

133 

culleti.  with  cucum 

Jellinudjami     

993 

iiladucheiM       ... 

)«Uiaiiig«iHnl   

it  )a  princesse       ... 

— .-.'^nr 

998 

iU  Robert 

irlnigetof... 


oXt 


— ,  Hi^dieof.LlEiVilleroi  ' 
— ,  ■hDulder  of,  grilled  ...  ' 
— ,  ■taoulder  sf,  \  la  Hont- 


-  bcttl    

head  gallimaufrled 

aweeibnud,  krded 

iweetbreflJ  scolloped   ,„ 

LnmpreJ'E,  etfwnl 

Lwk,  crousUule  of. 

pe  h  la  UeltOD  and  Mow- 

LmekU,  Suiue    ...     ...     ... 

I-eril,  Klamraiah    

L^  of  fonli  li  U  Wcllingloa 
of  lamb,  boiled    

&  la  l'roT™9al 

blaSoDblHi 

pork,  boiled 


,    Ijird  Marcus  Hill's  I 
-well!    


'    Hacanmi  Willi  Bi 

-  Bu  gratin       , 

-  b  ritaliuui* , 

-  croqneti 


tiintuili.'r>l',klaPkinotUH 
i    MBcedoineeffrailj.        

of  whole  froita  Id  jalljr... 
I    ' of  vegetable         .,.     ... 


pudding  Tor  InTSlidi 


k  la  Bultre  d'btUi 


'    Moltre  d'hfitel  batter     . 


.tuffingforr, 

LoaTca,  duclrna 


—  toaat  b  li  ViotOTU 


INDSL 


618 


No. 
694,  695 
...  1062 
...  706 
..,  203 
...  86 
...      87 


Marrow,  vegetable...  ••• 
Manhmallow  water  ... 
Mashed  potatoes  ...  ,.. 
Matelote  of  salmon 

—  sauce,  brown        ,,. 

sauce,  white ...    ... 

Mayonaises,    chicken,    lobbter 

and  fish     929 

of  fillets  of  sole    359 

of  fowl 933 

of  lobster     934 

of  salmon     936 

~^~~*  sauce    ••«     ...     ...     ...  Of 

Mazarine  of  salmon       522 

Meat^  croquets  of 315 

— — ,  mince 972 

— ,  patty 122 

—  pies  and  puddings...     ...  495 

,  scollops  of 312 

Mecca  loaves 763 

Medidual  drinks    •     ...  1059 

Mehl-prie,  or    German    thick 

paste ...    ...     •••    *•«.     ...  uoZQ 

Melon  glactf  ...    890 

water  ice      920 

Melted  butter,  or  butter  sauce  39 

Melton  Mowbray  lark  pie     ...  505 

Meringues     766 

klaCrdme 766 

Milanese  ragoiit    126 

—— fashions  for  rice 305 

Milk,  almond,  beverage 983 

punch 1042 

Minced  beef 529 

"        meats  ...     ...     ■••     ...  ui^ 

— —  mutton 563 

■  ■■      veal,  with  poached  ^gs  565 

Mint  julep     1018 

Mirepoix,  or  foundation  for  fla- 
vouring sauces  or  game  soups  300 

Mirlitons       .,  783 

^~"~^  Oi  Deet ...     ...     ...     ...  oo9 

Mixed  pickles        ...  969 

Mixture,  devil      131 

Mock-turtle  soup 140a 

,  clear           140 

Mosaic  turtle.. ...  801 

Mucilaginous  broth      984 


••• 


••* 


... 
... 

... 


Muffin  pudding     ., 
Mulberry  water    ...    ... 

Mulligatawney  soup 

Muscle  sauce         

scolloped      

Mushrooms,  preserved  ... 

'        au  gratin     

Mushroom  sauce   

Mustard  sauce       

Mutton,  breast  of,  grilled, 

•         broth    

chops   

-^"^^  cutlets ...     ...     ... 

— -  — —  k  la  Proven9ale  ... 

•  k  la  R^orme 

k  la  Soubise... 

—~ k  la  Vicomtesse 

,  escalopes  of,  with  fine- 

neros  ...     «,.     «,.     ... 

— ,  fillets  of,  k  la  Jardiniere 

f  fillets  of,  roebuck  fashion 

■■       hashed , 

fillets,  a  rindienne       ... 

■         fillets,  venison  fashion  ... 

haunch  of,  roast 

leg  of,  boiled       

1^  of,  braized    ...     ... 

leg  of,  k  la  Bretonne  ... 

1^  of,  k  la  Napolitaine 

1^  of,  k  la  Proven9ale 

leg  of,  k  la  Soubise    ... 

loins  of       • 

minced        

neck  of,  boiled    

neck  of;  roebuck  fashion 

neck  of,  k  TAllemande 

neck  of,  k  I'lilandaise ... 

neck  of,  k  la  Soubise  ... 

neck  of,  with  pur^e  of 
sorrel         ...     ...     ...     ... 

—  pie  k  I'Irlandaise 

—  pie  k  la  Windsor 

^  pudding 

— ,  saddle  of,  roast 

— ,  shoulder  o^  k  la  Polo- 
naise  ...    ...    ...    ...    ... 

— ,  shoulder  of,  boiled 
— ,  shoulder  of,  stuffed 


No 
837 
...  1070 
...  144 
...  42 
...  284 
...  962 
...  676 
...  66 
...  5u 
...  594 
155,  974 

...   u34 

555,  556 
660 


599 
597 
598 

603 
602 
601 
650-552 
552 
551 
424 
411 
412 
415 
413 
414 
416 
428 
553 
417 
419 
421 
418 
423 

422 
502 
324 
507 
425 

429 
...  426 

427 


•  •• 


•  •• 


•  •• 


•  •• 


614 

VaplM  or  flngw  Uieoits 
Kapolitaine,  k  la,  Raviolis 

Neapolitan  sauce 

Neck  of  nintton,  boiled ... 

,  with  par^  of  sorrel 

•— —  of  matton,  roebuck  feshion 
— ,  k  rAllemande     ... 
,  k  rirlandaise       ••• 
,  k  la  Soubise        ••• 
^-^  of  yeal,  larded 

,  yenisoD,  roast 

Nightrcap      

Nightin^e,  Soeor,  rice  k  la 
Noik,  or  cushion  of  veal 
Konnande,  turbot  k  la  ... 
Nose,  to  stop  the  bleeding  of 
tne     •••    ••• 

Nougat  • 

——  of  almonds 

Parisian 

small  k  la  Chantilly 

Nouilles  k  la  Palermo  ... 
"~"^^  poSie     ...     ...     ••• 

Novel  kinds  of  fiying  batter 
Noyeau  jelly  ,„    

Omelet  with  kidneys     ... 
— ^  with  oysters 

with  fine-herbs     ... 

with  Parmesan  cheese 

with  shalots 

souffl^e 

and  souffle 

Onions,  glazed       

^^^^~  picKieQ ...     ...     ... 

■        porridge       

Portugal  k  I'Espagnole 

-^~~~  sauce    ...     *••     ... 

Orangeade     

Orange  biscuits      ... 

compotes  of ... 

filled  with  jelly 

flower  tea    ... 

■  fritters 

in  syrup 

• jelly     

• marmalade 


INDKX. 


••• 


Na 

745 
308 
59 
417 
422 
419 
421 
418 
420 
400 
457 
1025 
310 
401 
194 

1083 
754 
754 
755 
756 
726 
954 
290 
851 

350 
714 
715 
711 
713 
712 
820 
816 
104 
967 
160 
679 
55 

1031 
773 
894 
855 

1069 
808 
885 
840 

1003  1 


•••  ••• 

•••  •«.  ••• 

...  •.. 

•  •a 


Orange  padding 
— ^  sauce 

water  ice 

Ordinary  sandwiches 
Orgeaie,  or  almond  milk 
Orleans  plums,  to  bottle 

Ox-cheek,  braized 

^-^  soup 
Ox-kidney  grilled  ... 

Ktewed  ... 

Ox-palates  a  la  Florentine 
curried... 


...     ••.     •*. 


•*.     ... 


...     •*. 


•••     •■•     ... 


Ox-tail,  breaded  and  grilled 

^^  haricot  of     

'■^"'~"  soup      ...      ...      ... 

with  stewed  peas ... 

Ox-tongue 

Oysters 

croquets 

,  devilled 

,  firied     ...    . 

— -  sauce,  brown 
—  sauce,  white 
— —  scolloped 
soup     ... 

Palestine  soup 

Panachee  jelly 
Panada,  bread 
chicken 


game 


Pancakes,  plain 
Parisian  cake 
loaves  ,,, 

nougats 

turnover  of  apples 

Parisienne,  turbot  k  la 

Parsley  sauce         

Partridges  braized,  with   cab- 

"agrS  ...        ...        .a.        ,,,        ... 

chartreuse  of        

"■~^^~  roaht     ...     ...     ...     ... 

salmis,  chaudfroid  of  ... 

stewed,  celery  sauce     ... 

with  sage  and  onion     ... 

■         k  la  Beiamaise 

k  la  Prince  of  Wal 

— ^  k  la  Victoria 


•.* 


••• 


830 
100 
916 
365 
1036 
877 
395 
143 
534 
535 
595 
596 
593 
591 
142 
592 
394 
347 
318 

311 
44 

43 
283 
183 

163 

8M 

977 
978 
821 
741 

19-2 
4d 

523 
656 
939 
634 
488 
633 
487 
tfil 


PirtrUga,    fill«u    of   b    U 
Thackenr 

pie  b  U  ChuHur        .,.  ■ 

Pirtc,  Hlramid        ', 

< .brioche        ' 

' .caidtrntei.fornlBedpiH  t 

diflsruit  kfadi  of : 

Gsnnui  Uuck,  or  inelii- 


Pwtry,  breul  and  butU 

ViU  cbMid  of  pigeoiM 

PMlaua         

PoUiM,  Blur  row    .„ 
-— ,puffpa>te   ...    . 

nttf  mmta 

PoHdi  biwuib 
^^—  compote  of  .,. 


Pru  &  U  FraD9Biae        

— . —  giwn,  for  garnish 

t  plain,  preKrT«d  ...     ... 

^'■'V         

,  gwfn,  «!,]> 

Peotorel  broth       

Ptroh    

Pt^neui  inuce    

PatiU  i^Dui,  or  Spaai^h  cakes 

choui  wilhcanimel     ...  1 

HquooI  boilnlu  la  SoubiK  ... 

rout,  liver  rtulfing      ... 


hUOudtwift       ... 

k  U  Portugradi*  ... 

bliSLQwrgB     ... 


U  Ricfaelkii      62S 


PickU,  dificffnt  bioda  of 

mid  marinada 

gherkim      


Pie,  b*eftleak  and  ojratar 


— ,  DoTomhire 7 

—,  m1,  Richmond      7 

-  fidi  k  la  Sta.  Teresa     ...  S 

,kU81<.  Ursula...  S 

-giblet    * 

-  gntnse  b  I'Ecoasww      ...  4 

-  Iwk,  li  U  HdtoD  Mowbray  5 

-  Lda-slorshiro  ...  T 


i;.  ^ul^t,  k  ta  Perigrwui 
—  Towt,k1aChipal*b>    . 


Ktriolu  b  U  H^litun* 


Ked  at.l«pi,  pkkled     

9SS 

currLtjdIr         

pighUPer^nwa 

d«r.hauDchof    

458 

pig.™        

455 

pJtridg»    ...    . 

■  mulkUk  I»  CbetWrteid 

2M 

q»«il.. 

inQllrt.griUed      

253 

rabbit. 

rnullfta  in  p»p«n 

251 

tarker 

iDulleU  wiU,  fiw-hwb. 

254 

breartofyral 

BtMandruffl        

657 

filUtofTnl... 

RafonuGUpi 

103 

foil  of  vol  ... 

28 

JuckofTeal... 

Kefrahicg  drink  foiwretbroat 

1074 

Koebuck 

Ti,^p««,aJm<mila 

204 

.cutlrtiof    ... 

n<^)0^lIlde  ofcucuraben       ., 

971 

,h»ri™iof    ... 

liMnoFM  in  efieral        

381 

of  poultry  saJ  game    ... 

464 

RoUrt»i«« 

Rolled  breut  of  Te*l 

buck 

455 

tlun  flank  li  beef 

Bwtoratire  broUi 

983 

KiU,  or  target  of  Lunb..,     .„ 

431 

paiiito 

ofbwf,  il1»mi>iie        .. 

388 

puncbioed    ... 

ofl-^r,  roB.1        

382 

Rpwi^p.  

kiceilliioanr  Ni^tiogals  .. 

310 

,  infurion  of  ... 

,  plain  bMid,  fbr  turriss 

227 

Round  of  beef,  boiled 

,  bolder  of,  il  la  Rana   .„ 

521 

RnffBiDd  m*       ... 

,  curried        

301 

r.un,j«teak.  plain  ... 

,  Floriolinefaahinn       ... 

306 

Rnbka,  BruHll     ... 

,  Milaniselkinion 

pudding        ... 

,  Piedmonlwe  fajliion    ., 

304 

Riudin  biKuit*    ... 

.  Polid.  fuhion      

303 

Cbarlotte      ... 

.KHiffliof     

817 

jellT      

,  SnuLdi  fiubion 

307 

kremokva   ... 

,  TnrkiJi  faihioB 

303 

— «jad  .:.  ... 

water 

985 

audchitken 

I^  ^  OT'tMhT 

llichelieulauc*      

63 

Jfidimond  eel-pie 

.!?? 

BBdd]*OflBIIlb,bnlM 

d 

Riuolletti      

Koacil,  Inrbe),  and  daca 
Bout  black  game  and  gmuM 


INDKX. 


C19 


Salads  in  general 
a  la  Kachel 

,  beet-root  and    Spanish 

onion 

,  Cazanora 

—  — ,  chicken,  lobster  and  fish 
— — ,  cucumber 

,  English 

— — ,  Flemish 

,  French 

,  German 

,  grouse 

— ,  Hamboro* 

,  Italian 

— ,  potato... 

,  Russian 
— — ,  Spanish 

-,  vegetable 


No. 
366 
378 

371 
377 
929 
369 
366,  367,  368 
375 
370 
376 
937 
380 
372 
705o 
374 
373 
379 


Salmis,  chaudh*oid  of  paitridges    939 


of  pheasant  ... 
^^~~^  sauce    ...     ...     *••     *• 

Salmon,  boiled  Scotch  fashion 

,  devilled       •• 

,  grilled         

,  gri  lied,  kippered 

,  picKieo.        *■«     •••     •• 
•  '     ,  piain    *..     ...     .»*     .■ 

a  la  Rcfjgence        

■ a  la  Tartare         

fillets  k  rindienne 

fillets  k  la  Marechale   .. 

fillets  h  la  Ravigote     .. 

fillets  k  la  Tartare       ,. 

,  Matelote  of 

,  Mayonaise  of 

,  Mazarine  of 

,  roe  fried      ... 

Salsifis  h  la  Crdme 

fried  in  batter 

Sandwiches,  Adelaide 

,  for  bBLll-suppei-s 

,  Bi^tby 

^^■~"^,  nsn      ...     ..( 
— — ,  Irish    

,  ordinaiy 
— ,  Prmce's 

,  Victoria 
Sardines        ...    ... 


632 
68 
209 
339 
201 
330 
345 
200 
204 
J02 
205 
206 
208 
207 
203 
936 
522 
316 
668 
669 
358 
364 
360 
362 
361 
365 
363 
359 
342 


••• 
••• 


Sauce,  Allemande ... 
anchovj      ... 

apple 

arrowroot    

Aurora        

Bourguiguotte     ... 

bread  ...     

brown...     

brawn,  cold 

brown  thickening  for 

Bretonne     

brown  butter 
brown  caper        ... 
brown  Matelote 
brown  oyster 
butter,  or  melted  butter 

cai'dinal       

Cazanova     

celery   ...      ...      ... 

Chateaubriand     ... 
coerry  ...     ...     ... 

chevreuil     

clear  tarragon      ... 
cream  almond     ... 
cream  B^amel  ... 
cucumber  for 
curry  ...     ...     ... 

devil's ...     ...     ... 

Dutch 

rrUxeUes    

^ss     •••    •••    ••• 

economical  maltre  d'hdtel 

economical  white ... 

fennel 

financi^re    

fine-herbs    • 

Genoese       ...     ... 

German,    for      boar 

neao  ...     ...     ...     ... 

green  gooseben-y ... 

green  ravigote     ... 

nam     ...     ...     ... 

horseradish  ... 

Indian...     , 

Italian         

lobster 

Lyonnaise 

maStre  d'hfttel     ... 


No. 

17 
49 
50 
97 
88 
60 
70 
12 
30 
9 
56 
54 
25 
86 
44 
39 
62 
82 
91 
77 
95 
29 
80 
93 
16 
960 
85 
83 
79 
75 
45 
33 
18 
52 
24 
74 
20 

31 
51 
57 
84 
78 
73 
23 
40 
90 
32 


■'Sdindaitt, 
^nfloprf  cod 


,  wins,  for  puddinga 


"'^'■f 

'  .btttr 

>ukI«         

yt^       

fisUofii  of  EMt  or  tub 
Scotch  bread ...     ...     ... 

broth 

haggu 

fiea-kili  k  !■  Mare 

Seuouip;,  uDmatlc,  btrbaosmif 

SMcIli  or  biiitlu,  wudflinj 
SwI-uikif,  plun    

pudding...     ... 

"T 

Sltwp'i  brodi  nllimuifiied 

kidiKjt  &  I'qncureaii  _. 

kiduefi  with  GD»-berb( 


Shenj-cot 

Brail 

»hon-.«.t 
SbouUer 


nb,  grilled  ... 
itton,  bailed... 
iitton,  ituHbd 


-,  crimped,    will)     brown 
otter       

Smsll  putry 

Smelta,  buked 


INDEX. 


521 


Snipes,  k  la  bonne-bouche     ...  644 

— ,  potted,  Irish  fashion   ...  503 

pudding  k  Tepicurean  ...  510 

Soles,  boiled ...  233 

f  ineu    ...     ...     •••     ••(  46o4 

k  TAurore    238 

—  k  la  Cardinal        240 

k  la  Colbert 235 

—  augratin      236 

— ; —  with  fine-herbs    237 

1  Noimande 239 

,  fillets  of      241 

,  f  Uets  of,  k  la  Taitare ...  244 

,  fillets  of,  k  la  Rouennaise  245 

,  fillets  <f,  fried     242 

,  fillets  of,  mayonaise  of...  935 

Sore  throat,  gargle  for 1072 

— ,  refreshing  drink  for     ...  1074 

Sorrel,  puree  of     119a 

Soubise  sauce        58 

Souffl^  coffee...     818 

^"^^^1  truit    «••     ...     ...     ...  oiy 

^"^^~i  iced     ...     .•*     ...     ...  ikjom 

,  omelette      820 

,  potato  flour 816 

pudding.  Brown  &  Poison  922a 

■         of  rice  ...     ...     • 817 

Souffles  and  omelets      816 

Soup,  asparagus     152 

,  bonne  femme      161 

,  brunoise      134 

,  call's  feet 147 

,  calPs  tail     146 

,  Carlton  House     139 

,  carrot  k  la  Cressy       ...  153 

,  celery  and  butter  onions  136 

,  chestnut      280 

,  chiffonade    135 

——,  cocky-leeky 159 

,  craD    ...     ...     ...     ...  iiv/ 

,  crayfish       ...     171 

,  D'Esclignac 137 

• ,  duchess       145 

,  German       ...     • 181 

— ,  giblet,  dear        ,  141 

—,  giblet,  thick        141a 

,  gi-een  pea     151 

■      ,  grouse 148 


Soup,  hare    ...     ...     ,..     .., 

— ,  hodge-podge 

— ^^"~,  iiauan...     ...     ...     ..i 

,  Italian  paste        , 

,  Jardini^   ...     ...     ,,, 

,  Julienne 

,  knuckle  of  veal  and  rice 

""^~~"j  lODBlCr. ..      ...      ...      .. 

,  Lord  Marcus  Hill's     .. 

,  macaroni     ,     .. 

,  mock-turtle. ... 

,  mock-turtle,  clear 

— ,  muUigatawney 
,  ox-cheek      ... 

»  ox-tail 

"^^~~",  oy sicr  ...     ...     ...     ... 

,  Palestine     

f  pe»      ...     ...     ...     ... 

"^^"^"j  pOifliO  ...      ...      ...      ... 

,  prawn ... 

,  Provencal,   or  Bouilla- 


... 
... 


No. 

149 
157 
182 
167 
133 
132 
158 
169 
168 
165 
140A 
140 
144 
143 
142 
183 
102 
150 
154 
172 


baisse... 

,  raviolis        

,  Kusbian,  or  Tschi 

,  Spanish       

,  spring ... 

,  spring  herbs        ... 

,  turnip 

,  vegetable  marrow 

,  vermicelli 

,  Victoria       

,  white,  k  la  Reine... 

,  white  celei"3^ 

Soused  mackerel    

Spanish  cakes,  petits-choux 

,  fashion  for  rice    ... 

,  ham,  how  to  dress 

— —  puffs     

^~""~  salad    ...     •••     ... 


soup 


Sparerib  of  pork,  roast... 

Spiuach  greening 

—  with  butter 

,  pur^e  of     

with  cream 

Sponge,  iced 

— ~"^^,  oa voy  ...     ...     ... 

I  Sprains,  cure  for 


178 

...  167a 

...  176 

...  177 

...  134a 

...  175 

...  164 

...  179 

...  166 

...  173 

...  174 

...  163 

...  346 

...  760 

...  307 

...  452 

...  81 

...  373 

...  177 

...  442 

...  72 

...  670 

...  112 

...  671 

...  903 

...  992k 

...  1077 


623 


IlfDKX. 


^pnng 


•ovpw, 


••• 


SprvQtiy 

St.  Ouaim    1030 

Stowed  |Murtndsf»,cei«rT  Moot    634 

^■■^"  P*^        •••     •••     •••     •••  ®*'^ 

— —  remp  of  Kfrf 387 

StiBf  ofawMporW,  cnrefbr  1082 

•  •  •••  V 

>•  •  •  ••  • 

••  •••  w 

>%•  •••  m 


Slock,  crooomiad  ... 

^"^^^  u^*"*^    •••     •••     •••     •.• 

— ^— whit*  ▼«•!    •••     •••     ... 

^"^^^""po*»  *Jx        •••     •.•     •■• 

Stocks    and    brotbt,    how    to 
dftrtty       •••     •••     •••     ••• 

or  broths,  woood,  econo- 

BBJ  of  •••      •••      •••      ... 

Stragotto  HUMt     

Strmwh«rrj,  compote  of. 

^■■■"^  CTMOl    •••  •••  ••.  ••• 

— ^"^  CTMUn  Mt  •••  •••  ••• 

^^^^"  urOpB     ••«  «««  «..  «a« 

*^'~~"  J^^J       •••  •••  •••  ••• 

"^^^■"  WmlcT     •••  •••  ...  •*• 

— ^-^  watflr  lot     

Strawberries,  to  bottle 

Strengthening  extract.  Dr.  Wra- 

tiftUw's  

Stuffing  for  hareei  ...     ... 

•——,  sage  and  onion     

^■^^^^ «     »  v*%J  «•■  «••  «••  ••• 


No.  I 
175 
134a  !  Tapioca  pudding   ... 
707    ^— ,  how  to  prpi)are   .., 
TamgoQ  sanoe,  clear    ... 
Tartare,  nlmon  k  la     ..< 
^"~^~  sauce    ...     ...     ..I 

Tarts,  apple,  with  quince 

,  firuit,  in  general  .. 

^"^^"f  pasie  ...     ...     ..I 

~"^^^^  pear     ...     ...     ..i 

Tartlets,  af^le      

>  cherry         

.mosaic        

•^— of  puff-paste 
Tea,  how  to  make 
^^"^",  Deer     ...     ...     .. 

^—,  camomile     ...     .. 

•^— ,  dandelion    

« nop     ...     ...     ,, 

— — ,  hyssop         

f  lime-flower 

,  linseed         

,  orange  flower      ,. 

,  saffron         

■^^■^^j  V eai     ...     ...     .. 

"^~"^,  Tioiei  •••     ...     .« 

Tench,  stewed        ...     .. 

Taidons  of  veal,  curried 
of  veil!  and  spinach 


6 

14 
89 

900 

859 

1047 

1007 

846 

1035 

9t4 

872 


980a 
298 
297 
294 


Sturgeon  grilled,  piquante  sauce    2 1 8 


k  la  lk>urguignotte       ...  216 

klaCardina(»       215 

k  U  Royale 217 

Suckinj^-pip,  roast 444 

Suet  pudding         293 

Sugar,  barley        1013 

Suisse  Lecielets     777 

Swnmer  drinks,    English  and 

foreign      1031 

Saprdme  of  fowl  k  la  royale  615 

oweues  ...     ...     ...     «..     ...  /o*/ 

Sweetbread,  roasted      579 

—  k  la  Toulouse       607 

-JklaVilleroi 608 

'^Qtlets 580 

how  to  cUrify    842  . 

i  in  •••     •••    %•%    VS%«>  > 


Thickening,  brown,  for  sauces 

,  while,  for  sauces 

Thick  giblet  soup      ' 

Timbale  of  macaroni      

k  la  Florentine     

'  of  Nouilles  a  la  Vanille 

,  French         

Timbales  and  pies,  raised 
Throat,  sore,  gargle  for 

,  refreshing  drink  for     .. 


Toad-in-the-hole 

Toast,  anchovy      

,  marrow,  k  la  Victoria  ... 

Toast  and  water    

Toasted  cheese       

Tomata  sauce        

k  la  Proven9ale    

Tongue  with  aspic  jelly 


...    791 
...    835 
...    991 
...      80 
...    202 
...      So 
...    803 
...    805 
...     953 
...    864 
797,  798 
...     799 
...    801 
...     800 
...  1088 
...     973 
...  1065 
...  1071 
...  1059 
...  1067 
...  1061 
...  1060 
...  1069 
...  1068 
...     975 
...  1063 
...     275 
...     610 
...     609 
9 
10 

UlA 

520 

725 

727 

732 

728 

1072 

1074 

540 

338 

319 

987 

333 

21 

675 

931 

»^< 


INDEX. 


523 


No. 

Tongue,  potted ...  941 

Tooth-ache,  cure  for     1085 

Toulouse  ngott    125 

Tourte,  GermaD ,  of  apricots ...  785 

—  ofGodiveau 523 

Transparents 913 

Trifles,  savoury     325 

Tripe,  baked 545 

— ,  boiled 542 

"""""",  ineci    ...     ...     ...     ...  o^o 

■^^■"""j  siewcci         ...     ...     ...  oiti 

Trout  k  I'Aurore 213 

,  grilled.  Epicurean  sauce  211 

—  plain  boiled 210 

with  Genoese  sauce      ...  212 

Trout  fillets 214 

Truffles  k  la  Pi^montaise       ...  678 

1  cgg^  with    710 

,  large,  k  la  Serviette    ...  677 

,  preserved    963 

•^■~~~  sauce    ...     ...     ...     ...  Do 

Tschi,  or  Russian  soup 176 

Tunny 341 

Turbot,  plain  boiled,     191 

,  griUed  k  la  Vatel       ...  193 

k  la  B^amel     196 

k  la  Normande     194 

k  la  Parisienne    192 

with  cream  au  gratin  ...  195 

fillets 197 

Turin  cakes 911 

Turkey,  boiled       467 

,  boiled  k  la  Yorkshire  ...  468 

,  roast  ...    464 

a  la  Chipolata      '. 465 

a  la  Proven9ale    466 

Turkish  fashions  for  rice       ...  302 

Pilau    326 

Turnips,  glaces  with  sugar  ...  692 
,  puree  ot      118 

^~"*~~,   sou p      ...        a..        ...        ...  1 D^ 

Tutti-frutti 1056 

Typhus  fever,  Continental  drink 

in  treatment  of 1084 

Varions  kinds  of  preserved 

vegetables       957 

Vatel,  grUied  turbot  k  la      ...  193 


Na 

Veal,  breast  of,  roast    407 

,  breast  of,  rolled 408 

,  breast  of,  k  la  Chipolata     410 

,  breast  of,  k  la  Printani^re    409 

cake,  Yorkshire    512 

,  noix  or  cushion  of      ...    401 

,  cushion  of,  k  la  St.  Cloud    403 

— — ,  cushion  of,  k  la  St.  George  402 
—'  cutlets  k  la  Financiers...  604 
—  cutlets  k  la  Maintenon ... 
— -  cutlets  k  la  Kusse 

cutlets  with  mushroom 

,  fillet  of,  roast      

,  forcemeat  of,  quenelle 

,  loin  of,  braized   

,  loin  of,  roast       

— ,  loin  of,  k  la  CrSme     ... 
— ,  mince,  with  poached  eggs 

,  neck  of,  braized 

,  neck  of,  larded    

,  neck  of,  roast      

stock,  white         

stuffing  or  seasoning    ... 

~"^"~  lea       ...     ...     ...     ... 

,  tendons  of,  and  spinach 

,  tendons  of,  curried 


605 
606 
564 
397 
185 
405 
404 
406 
565 
399 
400 
398 
2 
294 
978 
609 
610 
501. 
158 
666 


Veal  and  ham  pie 

Veal  and  rice  soup 
Vegetables,  how  to  dress 

,  various  kinds  of,  preserved   957 

,  Macedoine  of      101 

Vegetable  salads    

■         -marrow      

— —  soup      

Venetian  biscuits 

Venison  chops       

*^""^"^  ** j^  •••         •••         ••• 

,  haunch  of,  roast ... 

,  neck  of,  roast 

,  removes  of 

^"— "■— •  sauce    ...     ...     ... 

-,  shoulder  of^  roast 


Vermicelli  soup 
V^ictoria  biscuits 
—  cake 

pudding 

sandwiches 

soup  ... 


...  379 
694,  695 

..  179 

...  768 

...  460 

...  459 

...  455 

...  457 

...  455 

...  47 

...  456 

...  166 

...  781 

...  742 

...  824 

...  <'3«7 

...  173 


521 


IKDEX. 


\  iQCCvn  of  beef  •••     •••     ••• 

*  iol6t  ten      •••     •••     •••     ••• 

VoI-au-Tcnt  k  la  finand^re  ... 

Walet,PxiaMoi;nii0t     ... 

Walnuts        • 

WarU,  cure  for     

Wash,  a,  to  prerent  the  hair 
fruin  &lling  off...     ... '  ... 

Water,  barlej        

•~^^^^,    CflCJ  I  T..«         •••         ...         ••• 

— — ,  currant       ...     ...     «.. 

,  marshmallow      ...     ... 

,  mulberry     

,  pine-apple 

,  pom^ranate        

,  ncB      . *«     •••     ■••     ••• 

,  souchet  of  char 

,  strawberry 

ices,  different  kinds  of  ..• 

— — —  — — » apricot       

— ^  ,  cherry        • 

-,  currant  and  rasp- 


bejTy 


>,  lemon.. •     ... 

-,  melon 

-,  oraiige 

-,  peach 

-,  pine-apple ... 
-,  pommegrenade 
-,  strawbeiTy... 


Wells,  Love*8        

Welsh  hams 

Westphalia  hams,  how  to  dress 

Whip  sauce 

White  Bechamel  sauce  ...     ^^^ 

caper  sauce 

celery  soup 

" currant  jelly 

haricot  beans  a.  \a  Bretonne 

,  a  la  nialtre  d'hotel 


Ho. 

541 

1063 

518 

81 

792 

1081 

1073 

986 

1033 

1034 

1062 

1070 

1037 

1040 

985 

264 

1035 

916 

923 

926 

925 
917 

920 
916 
922 
918 
919 
924 
914 
736 
451 
99 
15 
26 
163 
997 
701 
700 


••• 

••• 


... 
... 
... 


White  Matdotte  nnce  ... 
-^  oyiter  aaooe         ... 

■"-^^^  BBuOe      ...       •*.       ... 

I  ■         p  eooDomical  ••• 

—  soup  Ik  la  Reine    ... 
— ^- tkidDeniiig  for  nuoeB 

Teal  itock 

Whitebait      

-——  devilled        ...     ••• 
Whitingi  au  gratio       ... 

boiled  •••     •••     ... 

— —  broiled  •••     • 

•"~^"."  irieci     •••     ...     ••• 

—  fried  k  la  Frao^^aise 
— ,  fillets  of,  k  la  Horly   ... 

,  quenelle,  forcemeat  of 

Wild  duck.    See  Wild  fowl  k 

la  Chasseur,  645 ;  Amoican 

fashion,  646 ;  a  la  Bigamde 

Wild  fowl  a  la  Biganade      ... 

k  la  Chasseur     ... 

,  American  fiishion 

port-wine  sauce  for 

Windsor  beans,  preserred      ... 
Windsor,  mutton  pies,  k  la   ... 
Wine  sauce  for  puddings 
Woodcocks  k  la  Chasseur 

Woodcocks  and  snipes 

Wratislaw's  Dr.,  strengthening 
ex  traci       •••     ...     ...     ... 

Wreaths  or  rings 


Ko. 

87 

43 

13 

18 

174 

10 

2 

281 

282 

260 

257 

259 

258 

262 

261 

186 


650 
650 
645 
646 

46 
959 
324 

98 
643 
659 

980a 
794 


Tains,  Amerioaa,  a  la  Pran- 

CcUov  . . .        ...       ...        ...        ...  (v.* 

Yarmouth  bloaters        329 

York  ham,  how  to  boil 450 

Yorkshire  hare-cake      513 

^^~'^~'  pie         ...     ...      ...      ...  1^9 

pudding        292 

veal  cake      512 

Young  carrots  k  la  Allemande  693 


THE  END. 


LOKUON  :  vRivraD  «t  "^ .  c\iav;i&  kk\>  ao^ft,  stkUTOKo  stsLEirr. 


ancatelli'B  Cook's  Guide  Advertiser. 


[LLIAM  8.  ADAMS  AND   SOiV, 

IRONMONGERS 


GINEERS  AND  MANUFACTURERS, 


PATENTEES  OF 

ELECTRIC  BELLS  FOR  DOMESTIC  USE 

i^Brfguei'a  Indicator  System), 

HATMARKET,  ahd  14  NOBBIS  STREET,  S.W. 

MAELBOROUGH  ROW.  MAESUALL  STREET,  W. 

Lrated  Catalogues,  with  Fiices  for  the  several  Department* 
ot  Bnsinesa,  forwarded  on  A^j^UftalVotk. 


2 


FRANGATELLI'S  COOK'S  GO  IDE  ADYE£TII^1L 


^raUam  S.  Adams  tad  Son,  ffT  Haymazlut,  tad  14  Honis  Stiwt,  S.W. 


ESTIMATES  FOE  THE  OUTFIT  OP  KITCHEN8L 


ADAMS    AND    SON, 

In  presenting  the  following  Specifications,  beg  to  mention  they  bare  been 
carefully  prepared  under  the  immediate  supervision  of  Mb.  FaAKCAnLU, 
with  a  view  of  enabling  persons  fumisning  their  houses  to  choose  at  cnoe  a 
proper  selection  of  Ironmongery  for  either  laige  or  small  kitchens. 

Each  Specification  is  complete  in  itsclt 

Any  of  the  Articles  may  be  ha^  singly  at  the  same  Prices. 

Terms — Current  Accounts  prop^ly  opened  are  due  Qoarterly,  and  are  nti. 

For  Ready  Money  Payments  above  51,  a  Discount  <tf  2|  per  cent  ii 
allowed. 

Post  OfiQce  Orders  may  be  made  payable  at  Charing  Crosa. 

All  Orders  from  the  Country  must  be  accompanied  by  a  remittance^  or  a 
reference  in  London. 


No.  I.  SPECIFICATION. 


12  Copper  Stewpans^  iu  sizes; 
1  pint  to  9  quarts 
1  5-Galloii  Copper  Stock  Pot, 
with  Saute  Pan  Cover ... 

1  Copper    Bainmarie,    com- 

plete; with  9  Stewpans, 
1  Soap  Pot,  and  1 
Glaize  Pot    ...     ...     ... 

2  Copper  Saut^  Pans,  in  sizes 
1  Copper  Braizing  Pan,  with 

Drainer  and  Charcoal  Fire 


10 


7 
1 


8,  d, 
7  6 
5     0 


10    0 
6    0 


Cover    ... 


•••     •* • 


18  0 
18  0 
16     6 


1  Copper  Egg  Bowl    0 

1  Copper  Sogar  Boiler        ...  0 

1  Copper  Presenring  Pan   ...  1     5     0 

2  Copper  Jelly  Moulds  ...  1  5  0 
1  Copper  Charlotte  Mould  ...  0  6  6 
1  Copper  Baba  Mould  ...  1  5  0 
1  Copper  Fricandeau  Pan  ...  2  5  0 
1  Wrought-iron  Omelette  Pan  0  6  6 
1  Wrought-u'on  Fat  Pan  with 

Drainer,  for  frying  fish,  &c.  0  17     6 
1  Tinned  Wrought-iron  Drip- 
ping Pan,  with  Well,  and 

on  Iron  legs ,     «, 


Carried  up 


••• 


2     6    0 


,.•  ^1  VI     ^  \ 


Amount  brought  up 

1  Basting  Ladle 

1  Large  Wooden  Meat  Screen, 
with  Hot  Closet 

1  Polished  Iron  Cradle  Spit 

2  Polished  Iron  Meat  ^ts, 

at  12/6  and  16/6 

2  Holdfasts  for  Joints,  at  3/6 

1  Cutlet  Bat       

1  ^leacoaw...     ...     ■•»     ... 

1  Cutlet  Saw      

1  Meat  Cleaver 

1  Set  Poultry  Skewers       ... 

1  Set  Meat  Skewers    

1  Box  French  Larding  Needles 

1  Dobing  Needle         

1  Pair  French  Mincing  Knives 

3  Cooks*  Knives,  io  sizes    ... 

1  Root  Knife       

2  Dishing-up  Forks  ...  ,,, 
1  Salamander,  on  Stand  ... 
1  Pair  Steak  Tongs     ,,,     ^, 

1  Toasting  Fork 

1  Fluted  Bar  Gridiron 
1  Frying  Pan      , 


••• 


£    Ll 

37  17  « 

0    5  f 

8  15  0 

1  10  0 

1    9  0 

0    7  ♦ 

0    5  1 

0   4  « 

0   4  • 

0   1  1 

0  0  i 

0  t  i 

0  7  1 

0  t  1 

0  1*  • 

Oli  < 

0  I* 

0  T« 

014  < 

0  !• 

0  i< 

0  «• 

0  H 

Carried  op 


••• 


55  St 


William  8b  ^AaxDi  aA%Btt^  WU«.Ta«'«^V^»^^v^«ft^'*5»^;^ 


FRANOATELLI'a  COOK'S  GUIDE  ADVERTISER. 


■^  ^ 

v^^v 

r«A  M 

*0 

HmUam  S.  Adams  tad  Son,  57  Haymarkttt,  and  14  Honii  Strett,  1 

S.^ 

r 

• 

No.  1.  SPECIFICATION— c<m*thM«/. 

£ 

8. 

d. 

£ 

8, 

d. 

Amonnt  brought  up 

55 

2 

9 

Amount  bi-ought  up 

65 

6 

6 

6  Iron  Saucepans,  in  sizes  ,.^ 

0 

14 

6 

1  Dozen  Tartlette  Pans      ... 

0 

1 

0 

2     Iron      Saucepans     with 

i  Dozen  Mince  Pie  Pans    ... 

0 

1 

0 

Steamers ;  1  each  6  quarts 

1  Fish  Slice 

0 

1 

6 

and  8  quarts..*    • 

0 

17 

6 

1  Bread  Rasp     *.., 

0 

2 

0 

1  Iron  Tea  Kettle      

0 

6 

0 

1  Palette  Knife 

0 

2 

6 

2  Wire  Frying  Baskets,   at 

1  Egg  Whisk      , 

0 

2 

0 

3/6  and  4/6 

0 

8 

0 

1  Egg  Slice 

1    Pewter  Freezing   Pot,   3 

0 

1 

0 

1  Block  Tin  Colander 

0 

4 

6 

2  Best  Tin  Fish  Kettles,  in 

quarts,    with    stops    to 

sizes,  at  7/0  and  10/6 ... 

0 

17 

6 

cover     ...     ...     ...     ..a 

1 

4 

0 

3  Baking  Sheets,  in  sizes    ... 

0 

12 

6 

1  Spatula  for  Pewter  Freezing 

1  Box  Plain  Round  Cutters 

0 

4 

0 

Pa* 

A  Qb             ...        ...        ...        ... 

0 

5 

0 

1  Box  Fluted  Round  Cutters 

0 

5 

6 

1  Neapolitan  Ice  Spoon      ... 

0 

6 

6 

1  Box  Fancy  Cutters 

0 

4 

6 

1  Wooden  Freezing  Pail     ... 

0 

7 

6 

1  Paste  Jagger   ...     

0 

1 

6 

1  Ice  Pudding  Mould         ... 

1 

8 

0 

1  Pair  Paste  Nippers 

0 

1 

0 

1  Marble  Mortar        

1 

15 

0 

1  Box  Vegetable  Cutters    ... 

0 

7 

6 

1  Hardwood  Pestle  for  Marble 

1  Wire  Basket  for  Salad     ... 

0 

.4 

6 

Mortar 

0 

5 

6 

1  Spice  Box        

0 

17 

6 

1  Weighing  Machine  and  Set 

.  1  Seasoning  Box 

0 

6 

6 

of  Weights,  to  weigh  28  lbs. 

1 

7 

0 

1  Herb  Tray       • 

0 

5 

0 

1  Jelly  Bt^  and  Stand 

0 

9 

6 

1  Bread  Grater 

0 

1 

6 

4  Hair  Sieves,  in  sizes 

0 

5 

6 

1  Spoon  Drip     

0 

18 

6 

1  Brass  Wire  Sieve    

0 

4 

6 

3  Copper  Dishing-up  Spoons 

0 

12 

6 

2  Tammy  Cloths        

0 

4 

6 

12    Tinned    Iron    Dishing-up 

1  Flour  Tub 

0 

4 

6 

Spoons,  in  sizes    

0 

6 

0 

1  Pu)lling  Pin     

0 

1 

3 

2  Block  Tin  Stock  Ladles  ... 

0 

5 

0 

1  Water  Can      

0 

7 

6 

3  French  Vegetable  Scoops,  at 

6  Tinned  Meat  Hooks        ... 

0 

1 

6 

^/'f       •••     •••     ■••     ••• 

0 

5 

3 

1  Corkscrew       

0 

1 

6 

IFlourDr^ger 

0 

1 

6 

1  Sheet  French  Roll  Tins  ... 

0 

2 

6 

1  Sugar  Dredger 

0 

2 

0 

1  Knife  for  opening  Preserves 

0 

2 

0 

1  Tin  Funnel      ...     ...     ... 

0 

0 

9 

1  Pair  highly-finished  Wafer 

S  Block  Tin  Gravy  Strainers, 

Irons    ,, 

1 

5 

0 

•          • 

111  S12CS  •••       •••       •••       ••• 

0 

5 

3 

1  Pair  Gauflfre  Irons , 

0 

7 

6 

1    Block    Tin    Raised    Pie 

1  Coal  Scuttle    

0 

6 

(j 

Moold  •«.    •••    ...    ••■ 

0 

7 

6 

1  Kitchen  Fender       ...     ,„ 

1 

2 

0 

• 

1   Spf  Kirp  TmnR 

0 

1 

14 

1 

6 
6 

Gamed  up 

65    6     6 
mustroHons, 

X    kj>d«    A' lie    XlVUo...         ...         ••• 

1  Best  Town  made  Coffee  Mill 

£ 

» 9$e  pages  8-12 

79 

15 

~9 

Ibrj 

-Wflliam  &  Adaaw  and  Son,  67 

Haj 

mazki^  VDfii  W^tastelBQMi^^^i^ 

» 

\? 

e«.  ^v€.iX.  "fi^K 

FBAircATKLUi  ooon  ounn  adtkbtisb^ 


ll^t  Vt|Kld4tS..flia.    lindl.TtpUM 

luril-OnTTStnlaen.   I. 

IMfc> 

KnlM    I.  IMiuii-iT  Folk.    i.  l^nUi* 

..  lte.TNlpp» 

Ho.  IL  BFBCIFICATXON. 

£    .. 

if. 

£fci 

10  CopT"  Smpani,  in  ilia ; 

AmonDf  bnmeht  up 

36    3    fi 

lipinrioSqi'iiitt       ...     8    S 

0 

2  Holdfiuti  for  JoiuU,  lit  3/b 

0    T    * 

aCopinrSiutcl'iuisat  10  6 

1  Cutlet  B.t       

0    6    1 

».il2  6       1     3 

IMortSmw        

0    4    « 

1  Copper  Sugmr  Boiltr        ...     0  16 

ICuTlMS.-      

0    i    0 

1  Collar  Kfg  BoTi 0  18 

IM«.tChr.H«r 

0    4    6 

1  Copptr  I'liMnii^  i'ta    ...     I     3 

1  Sft  I'oulUy  SkfWe« 

1  Copptr  Jelk  HdkIJi       ...     1     1 

I  SM  Mwt  ytow»™    

0    2    0 

1  Copper  Chulottf  Mould...     0     5 

1  CiiH  Kirnrh  Urdine%'«ed1a 

0    7    « 

1  Com-' 1^1"  !>!<>"''' 1    ^ 

1  Dobinl  Swdio         

3C«.k»'^Kniv»,in^«.    ... 

0    2    0 

1  BlDuk  Tin  KtiiHd  IV  Mould    0     6 

0  le  g 

1  Hoot  hml<       

0    2    6 

1  Wroupht-imn  ¥H  Pm  >»l 

3  Di-hinE.u|.  Fork.     

0    T   0 

Dr*i,«.ftrfrTmgfi.h.**.0  IS 

1  SalanuuHlfT,  on  Stud      ... 

0  1!    « 

1  Pair  Steak  Tone*    

0  a  6 

withn-flUMidoDlraakn  1  18 

1  TomtiOK  KiTk :.. 

0    1    0 

1  Basting  L*Jlc 0    4 

1  Hilled  Kar  Gridiron        ... 

0  4  e 

1  WDodfn  llfsit  Scrnii,  eir- 

IKrvinjPan      

0    3    0 

culariviTiwi,  with  Hot  Clortt     5     0 

6  Iron  .Saucepan.,  in  sii«... 

0  13   0 

1  PollshB)  irai  Cr«dl.  Sjiil        1  10 

S  Poli<h«l  ln»  Mot  Spite, 

>iIliSl«ameni       

0  17  e 

It  ia/6  ad  16/6. 1    9 

0 

1  Iron  T«  Kettle       

0    6    6 

FaANCATELLI'S  COOK'S  GUIDK  ADVERTIBSB. 


muim  8.  AdttH  u<  Bon,  >T  E^iwhrt,  aid  U  SotU  ttTMt, 

B.1I 

Ni  n.  spEancATioN-c«.e«u«f. 

£ 

d. 

£ 

Amount  brought  np 

32 

7 

9 

Amonnt  brought  up 

38 

I  Wh,  Fryliip;  B«krt:„    ;.. 

4 

6 

3  Block  Tj"  Gisvy  Staincrs 

0 

I  Block  Tin  Colinder 

0 

4 

1  Duttn  Tartktte  PS.UI       ... 

a  Bat  Tin  Fish  KetUtt,  »t 

}  Dozen  Mmce  l-ie  l'no>     ... 

7/0  8iidll>/6       ...     ... 

0  17 

6 

1  Bread  Knap      

0 

3  Block  Tin  Baking  Sbieta 

0 

lEgE  Whisk       

1  fioi  Plain  Roultil  Cuttcra 

0 

e 

1  Pewter  freezing  Pot 

0 

1  Boi  FInUd  C<itt«n 

6 

I  Spntula    

0 

1  Bol  Fwcf  Cutten 

0 

6 

1  Wooden  Freezing  Pail     ... 

0 

IPuteJn^r 

0 

1  Marble  Mortar        

1  P»ir  PuUNippen 

0 

0 

1  HaHwood  Peatlc     

0 

ISpicBoi        

1  Weighing  Machine  and  Set 

ISeanningBM 

dC  Weights  to  vagh  14 

IBerbTmjr       ...     

0 

lbs.        

1  Brad  Grater 

3 

4HairSioTe3     

1  Spoon  Drip     

e 

6 

1  Bra«  Wir«  SicTO    

0 

19  Iron  Spoon.,  in  nis        „ 
2  Block  Tin  Stock  Ladleo,  at 

0 

1  Water  Can       

0 

6  Meat  Hooks     

0 

2/0aiid3/fl         

0 

6 

ITaramyCloth 

0 

1  Boi  Vi«ct>ble  Cntten    .. 

1  Jelly  B^  and  Stand       .. 

0 

IFWi  Slice. 

0 

e 

1  Cuikserew        

0 

lEggSli™ 

0 

0 

1  Sheet  Roll  Tins        

0 

»  Vtgetsblc  Scoops,  at  l/S 

0 

1  WsOihaDd  Bool       

1  Fl?ur  Dredger .. 

0 

1  ander  Shovel 

0 

3    0 

1  Sugir  Dredger.. 

0 

2 

0 

1  Best    Town-made   Coffee 

lTinFimn»l 

0 

0 

_t 

Mill       

Q 

IT    a 

Curled  up    

^ 

3 

3 

•A5 

14    0 

e;;; 

Trn 

^" 

^m 

^^_— g_ 

■nd  Ivn,  ST  HaynaAA,  «iA\VRorfi»*'w»fu*j^ 


FRAKOATELU'8  COOK'S  GUIDE  ADVEETISER. 


William  &  Adams  and  8oSt  ^  Haymaikat,  and  14  Hoiria  Straet,  S.W. 


ZTo,  m.  8FECIFIGATION. 


6  Copper  Stewpans,  in  sizes ; 

1^  pint  to  5  qWis 
t  Iron  Stewpans,  in  sizes ;  2j^ 

pints  to  5  quarts 

1  Iron  Digester  Pot,  3  gallons 

2  Copper  Saut^  Pans,  at  9/6 

and  10/6      ..•     

1  Copper  Sugar  Boiler 

1  Copper  Pr^rving  Pan    ... 

2  Bluck  Tin  Jelly  Moulds  ... 
1  Block  Tin  Cake  Mould  ... 
1  Block  Tin  Raised  Pie  Mould 
1  Wrought-iron  Omelette  Pan 
1  Best  Tin  Dripping  Pan  ... 
1  Iron  Stand  for  Dn  "^ing  Pan 

1  Basting  Ladle 

1  Oral  Iron  Boiling  Pot  ... 
1  Wooden  Meat  Sciaen,  lined 

with  Tin 

1  Best  Brass  Bottle  Jack   ... 
1  Cutlet  Bat      ...    ...    ... 

1  Meat  Saw       ...     ...     ... 

1  Meat  Chopper ... 

1  Set  Poultiy  Skewers       ... 

1  Set  Meat  Skewers 

2  Cooks'  Knives,  in  sizes    ... 

1  Root  Knife       

1  Dishing-up  Fork     

1  Toasting  Fork 

1  Fluted  Bar  Gridiron 

2  Frying  Pans,  in  sizes,  at 

1/6  and  3/  ...     ...     ... 

6  Iron  Saucepans,  in  sizes  ... 
1  Large  Iron  Saucepan,  with 

Steamer        ...     ...     ... 

1  Box  Vegetable  Cutters  . . 
1  Fish  SUce... 


•.* 


••• 


£  8.  4. 

4  16  0 

0  18  0 

0    8  0 


1  0 
0  17 
0  19 
0     6 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


3  5 
0  15 
0    5 


0 
0 
0 
0 


4 
3 
0 
2 


0  9 

0  2 

0  3 

0  1 

0  4 


Carried  up  ... 


0 
6 
6 
0 
6 
6 


5 
5 

6  6 

7  6 

4  6 

0    2  0 

0     9  6 


0 
0 
6 
6 
6 
6 
0 
6 
0 
6 
0 
6 


0  4  6 
0  13    0 

0  8  6 
0  5  6 
0     13 

18   15    3 


Amoont  brought  up 

1  Egg  Slice. ,     ,,, 

1  Iron  Tea  Kettle  •..  ».« 
1  Wire  Frying  Basket 

1  Tin  Colander 

2  Best  Tin  Fish  Kettles,  in 

sizes,  at  5/6  and  8/6  ••• 

2  Best  Tin  Baking  Sheets,  at 

2/6  and  3/0.;.     

1  Pair  Pa8t6  Nippers 

1  Box  Plain  Round  Cutters 

1  Box  Fluted  Cutters 

1  Bread  Grater ,„ 

1  Paste  Jagger 

1  Spice  Box  ...  \.:  ,., 
6  Iron  Spoons     ...     

3  Gravy  Spoons,  at  9d.  and 

^/v  ..•  ...  ...  ... 

2  V^table  Scoops     

1  Flour  Dredger,  1/0 ;  1  Tin 

Funnel,  6d, ... 

2  Block  Tin  Gravy  Stramers 
1  Dozen  Tartlette  Pans  ... 
i  Dozen  Mince  Pie  Pans     ... 

1  Egg  Whisk      , 

1  Marble  Mortar ... 

1  Hardwood  Pestle     

1  Weighing  Machine  and  Set 

of  Weights  to  weigh  14  lbs, 

3  Hair  Sieves      

6  Tinned  Meat  Hooks         ,., 

1  Tammy  Cloth 

1  Corkscrew        ,„ 

1  Jelly  Bag  and  Stand       ... 

1  Washhand  Bowl      

1  Cinder  Shovel ...  ,.,  ,„ 
1  Box  Coffee  Mill 


••• 


£ 

t. 

d. 

18 

15 

3 

0 

0 

9 

0 

5 

6 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

6 

0  14 

0 

0 

5 

6 

0 

1 

0 

0 

3 

« 

0 

4 

6 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

6 

0 

3 

6 

0 

2 

0 

0 

1 

9 

0 

3 

6 

0 

1 

6 

0 

3 

6 

0 

1 

6 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

5 

0 

0 

5 

0 

18 

0 

0 

3 

9 

0 

1 

6 

0 

2 

3 

0 

1 

0 

0 

9 

6 

0 

1 

9 

0 

3 

1 

0    5  9 


£25  IS  I 


2. 


WUliaai  8.  i^^*^»  aad  Boil,  W  -aK^wa^V  w^\^^^scA^\»asifc^V^ 


PBANCATELLI'8  OOOK'S  GUIDE  ADVERTISEE. 


VnUam  &  Adaai  Md  Son,  57  Haymarktt,  and  14  Vorrii  Stmt.  8.W. 


1.  Copper  Slice.    2.  Sauce  Lad]«.    3.  Sjpoon  with  Fork.    4.  Spoon  with  Slioe. 
6.  Double  Spoou.    6.  Pierced  Spoon.    7.  Stodc  Ladle. 


1 
1 
1 

2 

1 
8 


No.  IV. 

6  Iron  Stewpaiis,  in  sizes ;  2^   £ 

pints  to  5  quarts 

6  Iron  Saucepans,  in  sizes  ... 

1  Large  Iron  Saucepan,  with 

Steamer        ... 

Iron  Boiling  Pot     

Iron  Tea  Kettle       ...     ... 

Digester  Pot,  2  gallons   ... 
Flying   Pans,  in   sizes,  at 

1/3  and  2/6 

Bright  Iron  Omelette  Pan 
Block  Tin  Sau(«paii8,  at 

2/6  and  3/0 

2  Block  Tin  Jelly  Moulds  ... 
1  Block  Tin  Cake  Mould  ... 
1  Best  Tin  Dripping  Pan  ... 
1  Iron  Stand  for  Diipping  Pan 

1  Basting  Lndle 

1  Brass  Bottle  Jack    

1  Block  Tin  Meat  Sci-ecn  ... 

1  Meat  Chopper 

1  Meat  Saw        

1  Set  Poultry  Skewere       ... 

1  Set  Meat  Skewers    

2  Cooks'  Knives,  in  sizes    ••. 

1  Koot  Knife      

1  Fish  Slice,  1/3 ;  1  Egg  do.  9d.  0 
1  Diddog.up  Fork     .. 
1  Toasting  Fork 

Carried  up £8 


BPECIFICATIOir. 


.*• 


£ 

s. 

d. 

0 

18 

0 

0 

13 

0 

0 

6 

6 

0 

8 

6 

0 

5 

6 

0 

6 

6 

0 

3 

9 

0 

• 

6 

6 

0 

5 

6 

0 

5 

6 

0 

5 

6 

0 

G 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

1 

6 

0 

12 

6 

1 

5 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

0 

€ 

0 

2 

0 

0 

9 

6 

0 

2 

0 

'.0 

2 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

1 

0 

... 


... 


... 


Amount  brought  up 

I  Gridiron 

1  Wire  Flying  Basket. 

1  Tin  Colaoder  ... 
1  Tin  Fish  Kettle 
1  Baking  Sheet  ... 
1  Box  Fluted  Cutters... 

1  Paste  Jagger 

1  Spice  Box        

1  Bread  Grater 

6  Iron  Spoons     

2  Gravy  Spoons 

1  Vegetable  Scoop      

1  Flour  Dredger 

1  Tin  Funnel     

1  Block  Tin  Gravy  Strainer 

1  Dozen  Tartlette  Pans      ... 
1  Egg  Whisk      

1  Weighing  Madiiue  and  Set 

of  Weights    ... 

2  Hair  Sieves 
6  Meat  Hooks     ... 
1  Corkscrew 
1  Marble  Mortar 
1  Hardwood  Pestle 
1  Washhand  Bowl 
1  Cinder  Shovel ... 
1  Box  Coffee  Mill 


... 


... 


... 


••• 


... 


••• 


... 


•.• 


1     '6 


£      8, 

d. 

8     1 

3 

0    4 

0 

0    3 

e 

0     1 

6 

0     7 

0 

0     2 

6 

0    4 

6 

0     1 

6 

0    3 

6 

0     1 

0 

0    2 

0 

0     1 

6 

0     1 

9 

0     1 

0 

0    0 

6 

0    2 

0 

0     1 

6 

0     1 

0 

0  18 

0 

0    2 

9 

0     1 

0 

0     1 

0 

0  17 

6 

0    5 

0 

0     1 

9 

0    2 

0 

0    4 

6 

^V^\S: 

»    ^ 

<Ar  IthutmHom,  am  i«0M  ^^^ 


WiJUkm  8.Adi 


I 


57 


ttSkA.  'WW 


^  V* 


8  fBlH CATXtXTS  000^8  01IZD1  'IMMBSUUtL 


fd^Stm 


riTstTin;  hn  «id  Simon.  Brad 


WUIiunS.  Aduaa  tnO.  Bw,  VI  'Ha^i.A*  .< 


PEASCATELLI'8  COOK'S  GTHDE  ADVEETISEB.  0 


UnUamfl.  jLdi^udBoii,5TE*jmMkrt,  and  14  Kocdi  Btretti  S.W. 


^daau  aWl  8<n,  67  HkyaudA^  wAVWIw***  'fS^irt 


S  PKANCATELLI'8  COOK'S  OTJIDB  ADTEETIBBB. 


^niUam  8.  Adtmt  and  Boa,  ST  Hi^nukat,  aad  14  ITorIs  Stnat,  &W. 


PEANCATELLI'8  COOK'S  GTHDE  ADVEKTIBEE.  9 


and  Sen,  >7  Eaymukat,  and  14  Koirii  Btrtet,  S.T. 


^#i^ 


KbcBowI.  beisDulng 


Pie  Uunlil,  ei.  ed.  in.  tklgnivn  lol  LIuiiiK.aoi.     II.  Ve|!eliible  Mould,  » 


Sob,  W  Baymailut,  •ai.vV1K«*»  *^*uJ^i 


10  FBAXCATELLrs  COOK'S  GUIDE  ADTEBTISES. 


WlUaa  ■.  AiMM  u«  IM,  fT  ^TButat,  t^  14  X«ik  fttn^  Li: 


|lertB[tt*Wb  »*»*•*- 


raANCATELLra  COOK'S  GUIDE  ADVERTISER.  11 


WDliam  I.  AUm»  tnd  Bon,  ST  Ehynurkat,  tud  14  Vorrii  BtiMt,  8.W. 


U.«il.U)l«(.iiL 


ADAHS  AN1>  SON  beioK  io  correspondence  vith  the  prindp 
Haiiuraciurtrs  in  Paris,  have  always  on  hand  a  large  Assortment 
Upecialilei  lor  the  Cuuine,  aod  to  which,  novelties  are  oonetautlj  added. 

The  artidft  emnaemUd  in  Ihii  Catalogue  are  exiiu^tidf  of  On  beet  Materia 
and  Wi/rkmanihip.  Goodt  of  on  inferior  qtuditg  eon  be  mmlied  at  lof 
prieet,  but,  oi  they  eannol  be  reeommeiuUd,  they  are  not  ipeeified  here. 

fe  and  in  good  eondilion. 


B  Mil  a«»,  H  ^^t™*^**^ 


FEANOATELLIS  COOK'S  GUIDE  ADVEETI8EB.  13 


Elitract  from  ihe  Lancet,  Febmarj  4th,  1854,  aud  from  Dr.  Hassall's  recent 
•rk  on  '  Food  and  its  Adulterations  * — 

'  The  Samples  of  MesBrs.  CBOS8E  and  BIiACKWEIjIi  were 
itirely  free  from  Copper.' 


iROSSE  and  BLACK  WELL,  Purveyors  in  Ordinary  to  Her 

'  Majesty,  in  soliciting  attention  to  the  above  extract,  beg  to  state  that  the  utmost 
*e  is  taken  to  insure  purity  and  wholesomeness  in  their  various  productions.  Their 
t<bli>hmeut  has  been  inspected  by  Dr.  Hassall  and  many  leading  Members  of  the 
Klical  ProfesNion,  who  have  been  pleased  to  expi-ess  their  high  approval  of  the 
ler.U  manufacturing  arrangements.  Every  article  pi-epared  by  C.  and  B.  is  of  the 
:heftt  quality  that  can  be  produced.  Their  PiCKLES,  Tarts,  Fruits,  and  Pre- 
RVES  are  pei*fectly  natural  in  colour,  no  mineral  or  other  deleterious  ingredient 
ng  employed  to  give  them  an  undue  brilliancy. 

C.  and  B.  respectfully  invite  att^itiwi  to  the  follawing,  all  of  which  are  partico- 
ly  recommended : — 

flCKLES  of  varlons  ktnds ;  prepared  In  pure  malt  Tinegar. 

30TTLED  FRUITS.  FX)R  TARTS  AND  PUDDINGS;  preserved  in  their  natural  state. 

FELLIES  of  unequalled  brilliancy  and  purity;  consisting  of  Calfs  Foot,  Orange,  Lemoc, 
yeau,  l\mcb,  Madeira,  &c    In  pint  and  quart  bottles,  for  tbe  convenieDce  of  fiunilies. 

ilOYAL  TABLE  SAUCE;  of  a  warm  and  delicious  flavour,  peculiarly  adapted  for  cold  meats, 
1  greatly  improving  ha^es,  stews,  and  made  dlsbes. 

ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVIES;  produced  solely  from  tbe  REAL  GOBGONA  ANCHOVIES. 
1  superior  to  all  other  preparations  sold  under  the  same  name. 

ilSSENCE  OF  SHRIMPS;  manufactured  on  the  sea  ooast  where  the  shrimps  are  canght. 
is  Sauce,  being  milder  in  flavour  than  tbe  Essence  of  Andiovies,  is  |H«ferred  hj  many  epicures. 

THE  CEI.EBRATEn  SOHO  SAUCE;  for  Game.  Venison,^. 

PURE  MUSHROOM  CATSUP ;  made  from  tbe  finest  Mushrooms  obtained  on  the  &med 
icestersbire  Downs. 

UR  ROBERT  PEEL'S  SAUCE;  for  general  purposes,  manufactu^vd  by  J.  Cabstaibs,  Edin- 
rgh.    Each  bottle  bears  a  fao-slmile  of  the  late  Kight  Honourable  Baronet's  letter  of  approvaL 

INCHOVY  PASTE.  BLOATER  PASTE,  STRASBOURG  and  other  POTTED  MEATS;  for 
I  Breakrast  and  Luncheon  Table. 

)RANGE  MARMALADE,  JAMS,  AND  JELLIES;  perfecUy  pure,  and  prepared  byapro- 
s  which  effectually  retains  the  fine  aroma  of  the  Fruit. 

!)f  MARMALADE,  the  Lancet  of  22nd  January,  1853,  remarks  'Sixth  Sample  purchased  of 
OSSE  and  BLACKWELL,  21  Soho  Square.    Ash.  of  a  yellow  colour,  does  not  contain  Copper.' 

:;.and  B.  are  also  \Vhole8ale  Agents  for  M.  SOYER'S  SAUCES.  RKLISH,  and  AROMATIC 
TSTARD.  all  of  which  the  Lancet  declares  to  be  pure;  for  BARRIE  and  Co.'s  CURRY  and 
JIXIGATAWNY  PASTE  and CHATTNY'S,  which  are  shipped  direct  from  Madras;  alse 
PAYNES  ROYAL  OSBORNE  SAUCE;  and  for  LEA  AND  PERRIN'S  WURCESTER. 
IRE  SAUCE.  

The  above,  together  with  all  their  other  Condiments  and  Delicacies,  may  be  obtaiD«>d 
most  respectable  2<auce  Vendors  in  the  Utiited  Kingdom,  at  the  principal  Stores  ia 
lla,  America,  and  the  Colonies ;  and  wholesale  of 

CROSSE  AND  BLACKWELL, 

tY  SPECIAL  APPOINTMENT  PURVEYORS  T:0  TWS.  QfJ.''ESSs, 

21  SOHO   SQUAB.'^,  "UO-^-O^^^^ 


THE 

BEST  MODEBN  COOKERY  BOO 


TO  BE  OBTAINED  OF  AXY   BOOKSELLER 

IN  TOWN  AND  COUNTET. 


X.ADY  LLANOVEB'S  GOOD  COOKERY  FBOM  THE  BJSCn 

the  Hermit  of  St.  Cover.     By  the  Right  Hon.  Lady  Llakover.    Crow 

MBS.  TOOGOOD'S    TBEASUBY  OF  FBENCH  COOKERY     i 

lection  of  the  best  French  recipes,  arranged  and  adapted  for  English  hoi 
By  MiTB.  ToOGOOD.    In  ci*own  8vo.    5s. 

FBANCATELLTS  MODEBN    COOK:    A   FBACTICAL  GUC 

the  Culinaiy  Art  in  all  its  Branches.  Comprising,  in  addition  to  English 
the  most   approved    and  recherche  Systems  of  French,  Italian,  and 
Cookery.     Adapted  as  well  for  the  largest  Establishments  as  for  the 
Private  Families.     Sixteenth  Edition.     8vo.    With  60  Illustrations  u 
Becipes.     12s. 

THE  BBEAKFAST  BOOK :  A  COOKEBY  BOOK  FOB  THE  MCI 

Meal  or  Breakfast  Table.     Comprising  Bills  of  Fare,  Pasties,  and  Dishes 
for  all  Occasions.     Fcap.  8vo.     2s.  6d. 

WHAT  TO   DO  WITH  THE  COLD  MUTTON;  A  BOOK  0! 

chaufife.     Tos:ether  with  many  other  Approved  Receipts  for  the  Kite! 
Gentleman  of  Moderate  Income.     Fourth  Thousand.     Fcap.  8vo.    2s.  t 

EVERYBODY'S   PUDDING  BOOK;  OB,  PUDDINGS,  TABT 

in  their  proper  Season  for  all  the  Year  Round.     Foui  th  Thousand.     Fc 
2s.  6d. 

THE  LADY'S  DESSEBT  BOOK :  A  CALENDAB  FOB  THE  U 

Hosts  and  Housekeepers  ;  containing  Recipes,  Bills  of  Fare,  and  r)essert ; 

ments  for  the  Whole  Year.     By  the  Author  of  *  Everybody's  Pud.iing 

Fcap.  8vo.     2s.  6d, 

'  Full  of  the  most  tempting  things,  with  ample  directions  for  their  preparation  in 
expensive  way.    Every  lady  should  be  provided  with  the  book  at  once.' — IhMin  Etenv 


RICHARD  BENTLEY,  NEW  BURLINGTON  STREET, 
^uU^jtx  ixv  ©ttimarp,  to  Ser  ffllajestg. 


THE 


INGOLDSBY    LEGENDS; 

OR,  MIRTH  AND   MARVELS. 


88rd  THOUSAND. 


I.  THE  ILLUSTRATED  EDITION,  in  crown  4to.  cloth,  containing  all 
the  Prose  and  Poetical  Writings,  with  63  Illnstrations  by  Leech 
Gruikshank,  and  Tenniel,  21«. ;  in  morocco,  368. ;  or  in  morocco  extra 

by  Kivi^e,  52a.  6d. 

From  the  *TiMBA.' 

'  I'here  could  not  be  found  a  more  pleasant  book  than  *  The  Ingoldaby  Legends.'    Illustrated 
by  three  such  men  as  Leech,  Gruikshank,  and  TennieU  what  can  be  more  tempting  ?* 

H.  THE  LIBRAS  Y  EDITION,  in  2  vols.  8vo.  Containing  the  Life  of 
Ingoldsby,  and  all  his  Writings,  Prose  and  Poetical,  with  the 
Original  Eng^vings  by  Omikshank  and  Leech.    2 1  f . 

UL  THE  CARMINE  EDITION  An  Edition  in  smaU  8vo.,  with  Colour,  d 
Border  and  Six  niostrations  by  George  Craikshank.    10$,  6d, 

CV.     THE  POPULAR  EDITION,  Fcap.  8vo.    5#. 


RICHARD  BENTLEY,  NEW  BURLINGTON  STREET. 
Publtsf^  in  ^ttimatg  to  fj^rr  fSajestg. 


AGOBEOATB  SALE,  55.000. 

BENTLEY'S  FAVODRITE  NOVELS. 

In  crown  8vo^  each  vdnme  with  2  lUustnitioiii^  6c. 

THE  HOUSE  BY  THE  CHUECHYAED.    By  J.  Sheridu 

Le  Fanu,  Anthor  of  'Uncle  Silas,'  and  '607  DtereieU.' 

EAST  LYNNE.    By  Mrs,  Wood. 

GUY  DEVERELL.    By  J.  Sheridan  Lb  Fahu. 

TOO  STRANGE  NOT  TO  BE  TRUE.     By  Lady  Gbohguxj 

FULLKRTON. 

UNCLE  SILAS.    By  J.  Sheridan  Le  Panu. 

(iUITS.    By  the  Author  of '  The  Initials '  and  « At  Odds.' 

THE  CHANNINGS.    By  the  Author  of  *  East  Lynne.' 

NED  LOCKSLEY;  the  ETONIAN. 

THE  INITIALS.    By  the  Author  of  *  At  Odds '  and  '  Quits.' 

THE  LAST  OF  THE  CAVALIERS. 

IIRS.    HALLIBURTON'S    TROUBLES.      By  the  Author  c 

*  East  Lynne/ 

THE  SHADOW  OF  ASHLYDYAT.    By  the  Author  of  *  Ew 

Ljmne.' 

LADYBIRD.    By  Lady  Gborgiana  Fullerton. 
ANTHONY  I'BOLLOPE'S  THREE  CLERKS. 


BENTLEY'S  GLOBE  NOVELS. 

In  neat  volumes,  coloured  covers,  25.  each. 

THE  SEMI-ATTACHED  COUPLE. 

SAM  SLICK'S  SEASON  TICKET. 

THE  SEMI-DETACHED  HOUSE. 

LORD  LYNN'S  WIFE. 

LADY  FLAVIA.    By  the  Author  of '  Lord  Lynn's  Wife.' 

RlCHAllD  B^^TLEY,  NEW  BURLINGTON  STREE'J , 


