■  ■         ■  .   . 


i     £# 


IflTri 

*4M 


Myers  Park  PtBSB^mAN  Church 


^       -,        Jv"  is-*-  •  ■■"■ 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

ENDOWED  BY 

JOHN  SPRUNT  HILL 

CLASS  OF  1889 


C641.5 
M996c 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


Form  No.  A-368,  Rev.  8/95 


Count 


Icssings 


75  (l/cjuft  ofRexIpcd  cinXydctrwrUd 


Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church 

1926-2001 


Copyright  ©  2001 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church 


All  rights  reserved.  No  part  of  this  book  may  be  reproduced  or  copied, 
except  for  brief  excerpts,  without  written  permission  of  the  publisher. 


Library  of  Congress  Catalog  Card  Number  Applied  For 


First  Printing:  November  200 1 


Printed  in  the  USA 

by 

Jostens,  Charlotte,  NC 


Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church 

2501  Oxford  Place 

Charlotte,  North  Carolina  28207 

704-376-3695 


Tab 


Contents 


History 

4 

Appetizers  and  Beverages 

9 

Breads  and  Breakfast 

49 

Soups  and  Sandwiches 

87 

Salads  and  Dressings 

115 

Vegetables  and  Fruits 

147 

Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 

181 

Meats  and  Poultry 

205 

Seafood 

273 

Desserts 

299 

Pastors 

387 

Index 

388 

Committee 

399 

Count  our  Blessings 


Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church 

1926-2001 

We  celebrate  the  church's  75th  anniversary  with  gratitude  to  God  and 
to  each  other,  remembering  with  love  the  members,  past  and  present,  of 
our  family  of  faith.  This  book  of  recipes  and  memories  from  the 
congregation  marks  the  anniversary,  reflecting  our  heritage  of  breaking 
bread  together  and  telling  of  people,  places  and  events  in  the  life  of  the 
church. 

In  1 926  twenty-nine  men,  many  of  them  members  of  the  First  or  the 
Second  Presbyterian  Church,  met  at  the  Charlotte  Chamber  of  Commerce 
to  discuss  starting  a  Presbyterian  church  in  the  suburbs.  On  November  7, 
1926,  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church  (MPPC)  with  239  charter 
members  held  an  organizational  meeting  at  Queens  College,  which 
continued  to  host  the  church  until  it  had  a  pastor  and  adequate  building 
facilities.  The  Pulpit  Committee,  which  met  regularly  in  the  dining  room 
at  Ivey's  Department  Store,  approached  Dr.  Edgar  G.  Gammon  with  no 
property,  little  money  and  few  members.  He  liked  their  spirit  but  thought 
they  should  double  their  commitment  of  $125,000  for  an  education 
building  and  build  instead  a  sanctuary  for  corporate  worship  that  would 
seat  700  people.  Dr.  Gammon  came  in  June  1927  as  the  first  pastor  of 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church.  Having  broken  ground  in  January 
1928,  the  congregation  walked  from  Queens  College  to  Oxford  Place  to 
lay  the  cornerstone  that  Easter  Sunday  and  held  the  first  worship  service 
in  the  new  sanctuary  on  April  7,  1929.  A  colonial  style  manse  was  built 
on  Providence  Road  in  1931.  Growth  required  new  classes  and  places  to 


put  them,  and  Dr.  Gammon  said  of  the  young  church  family,  "I  don't 
bury  many,  and  I  don't  marry  many,  but  I  sure  do  baptize!" 

In  March  1939  Dr.  Gammon  accepted  the  presidency  of  his  alma 
mater,  Hampden-Sydney  College,  and  in  August  1939  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church  called  James  A.  Jones  as  its  second  pastor.   Dr. 
Gammon  said  to  James  Jones  (what  Dr.  Jones  would  repeat  to  Jim 
Fogartie  some  15  years  later),  "These  people  are  like  a  pack  of  horses; 
you  try  to  guide  them,  but  every  now  and  then  you  just  have  to  get  out  of 
their  way." 

With  over  1,000  members  in  1940,  the  congregation  added  an 
education  wing  with  classrooms,  offices  and  a  chapel  on  the  main  floor 
and  a  panel  room,  recreational  space  and  a  kitchen  below.  A  month 
before  the  church  occupied  the  new  rooms  in  November  1941,  it  also 
invested  $3,150  in  a  lot  adjacent  to  the  manse  (where  Providence  Hall  is 
now).  In  December  the  Japanese  attacked  Pearl  Harbor,  and  within  a  year 
nineteen  Myers  Park  Presbyterians  were  in  the  military  service.  Before 
the  war  ended,  it  had  taken  the  lives  of  five  of  our  members. 

Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church  was  a  forerunner  in  the  weekday 
school  program  and  a  leader  also  in  colonizing  other  Presbyterian 
churches,  Selwyn  Avenue  in  1942  and  Trinity  in  1949.  Dr.  Jones  had  a 
deep  interest  in  foreign  missions,  and  while  he  spent  time  in  the  Congo  in 
1948,  MPPC  was  served  by  its  first  associate  pastor.  In  1951  a  Children's 
Building  commemorated  the  25th  anniversary  of  the  church,  which  had 
more  than  1,800  members  in  the  1950s.  Dr.  Jones  received  a  call  in  1955 
to  the  presidency  of  Union  Theological  Seminary  and  "could  not,  in  good 


conscience,  refuse  this  particular  ministry." 

James  E.  Fogartie  was  installed  as  our  third  pastor  in  February  1956. 
Two  years  later,  the  congregation  approved  plans  to  expand  the  sanctuary 
and  add  an  education-fellowship  building.  In  October  1959  ground  was 
broken  again,  and  on  March  11,  1962,  a  Service  of  Dedication  for  the 
renovated  sanctuary  was  attended  by  both  Dr.  Gammon  and  Dr.  Jones.  In 
1970  MPPC  elected  its  first  women  officers,  and  in  1974  Dr.  Fogartie  left 
us  to  become  minister  of  First  Presbyterian  Church  in  Spartanburg.  The 
congregation  had  grown  to  3,000  members  during  his  nineteen-year 
tenure. 

Dr.  John  Randolph  Taylor  was  called  in  November  1975  as  the  fourth 
pastor  of  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church.  It  was  an  active  time  of  social 
concerns,  and  our  church  provided  the  first  Moderator  of  the  reunited 
Presbyterian  Church  (USA).  The  Session  resolved  that  "WHEREAS,  we 
are  convinced  that  in  the  providence  of  God  our  pastor  is  the  person 
called  to  perform  this  important  task  at  this  important  time  in  the  history 
of  American  Presbyterianism,  the  congregation  is  willing  to  make  the 
sacrifice."  While  Randy  was  moderator,  preachers  from  around  the 
country  filled  our  pulpit.  Then  in  1985,  the  Providence  Road  manse 
came  down,  the  carillon  went  up,  and  Dr.  Taylor  headed  west  to  become 
President  of  the  San  Francisco  Theological  Seminary. 

Timothy  Lent  Croft  became  the  fifth  pastor  of  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church  in  July  1987.  "New  Horizons  for  our  Ministry"  was 
a  successful  major  campaign  in  two  phases:  stewardship  directed  to  the 
physical  needs  of  our  growing  congregation  and  also  to  others,  locally 


and  globally.  In  Phase  I  we  replaced  the  roof,  giving  members  a  piece  of 
the  original  slate  as  a  symbol  of  our  history  from  1926  to  1990;  and  we 
built  the  Christian  Life  Center.  In  Phase  II  we  committed  personal  time 
as  well  as  money  to  "Linking  God's  People:  A  Focus  on  Children," 
developing  ongoing  relationships  as  disciples.  The  International  Minister 
Program  was  begun,  and  with  an  active  Intern  Program  we  became 
known  as  a  teaching  church.  After  eight  years  at  Myers  Park  and  with 
3,700  members  and  a  full  staff  of  associate  pastors,  Tim  Croft  resigned  in 
1995  to  minister  outside  the  church. 

Terry  V  Swicegood  served  as  the  sixth  pastor  from  1996  to  1999. 
During  that  period,  a  monthly  contemporary  worship  service  was  started 
and  the  Vision  2000  process  was  initiated  to  help  the  church  focus  on 
future  goals. 

A  notable  strength  of  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church  through  the 
years  has  been  its  music  program,  which  was  led  by  Bob  and  Ann  Stigall 
from  1963  to  2001.  The  Stigalls'  ministry  was  exceeded  in  length  only 
by  that  of  Eleanor  Belk,  who  was  a  dedicated  staff  member  for  more  than 
fifty  years. 

In  the  year  2001,  trusting  in  God's  continuing  love  and  providence, 
we  count  our  blessings  and  anticipate  the  call  of  the  seventh  pastor  of 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church. 

Rebecca  Schenck 


LJr.  Edgar  Gammon  did  not  equivocate  about  his  feelings  or  hesitate 
to  express  himself.  He  could  lecture  the  congregation  in  a  rather  fiery 
way  at  times.  Mr.  Elliot  Newcombe  said  to  my  mother  once  as  we  were 
leaving  church,  "Rogers,  did  he  mention  my  name?  "  He  collared  my 
friend  Burt  Vickery  and  me  about  reading  the  funny  papers  in  church, 
and  he  called  on  members  unannounced  to  discuss  absenteeism.  Dr. 
Gammon  s  regular  Sunday  attire  was  a  cutaway  coat  with  tails, 
striped,  pleated  trousers,  a  gray  vest  and  bat-winged  collar  with 
cravat.  He  made  the  rounds  of  Sunday  school  classes  to  see  how 
things  were  going.  As  a  child,  I  admired  him  tremendously.  Looking 
back  on  those  early  days  of  our  church,  I  feel  that  we  were  blessed 
with  a  very  devout  and  strong  leader.  I  believe  he  was  just  what  we 
needed  to  get  off  to  a  good  start. 

John  Pender 


1 


Lord 's  Supper 


The  Edgar  B.  Gammon  Family 


Dr.  Gammon  let  the  grammar 
grade  boys  play  football  on  the 
wide  church  lawn.  In  time,  the 
grass  was  scuffed,  and  hard, 
red  soil  replaced  green  tufts. 
Naturally,  adult  members 
complained.   They  thought  the 
boys  could  find  a  broom-straw 
field  to  play  in,  but  Dr. 
Gammon  said  what  better  place 
for  boys  to  play  than  next  to 
God's  house  and  on  God's  sod. 
Of  course,  football  is  a  collision 
sport  that  sometimes  causes  the 
colliders  to  yell  bad  words  at 
each  other.  Dr.  Gammon 
appeared  then,  looking  grim 
and  cheerless  and  righteous. 
He  scared  the  bad  words  out  of 
us,  and  we  continued  playing 
football,  using  more  prudent 
vocabulary.  Next  to  God 's 
house.  On  God 's  sod. 

Crawford  Ferguson 


Artichoke  Appetizer 


1  (8-oz)  can  artichoke  hearts, 

drained  and  squeezed 
8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
1  to  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise 


2  tablespoons  sour  cream 
Vi  cup  finely  chopped  onion 
1  (2-oz)  jar  black  caviar,  drained 
on  paper  towel 


Cut  artichokes  into  small  pieces.  Drain  again.  Mound  artichokes  in  center 
of  serving  platter.  Combine  cream  cheese,  mayonnaise,  sour  cream  and 
onion.  Beat  until  smooth.  "Ice"  artichokes  with  cream  cheese  mixture. 
Sprinkle  caviar  on  top  when  ready  to  serve.  Garnish  with  fresh  parsley. 
Serve  with  plain  crackers. 

Dot  Scott 

Asparagus  Foldovers 


Yields  2  Dozen  Appetizers 


1  can  asparagus  spears 
1  loaf  thin  white  bread 
Parmesan  cheese 


Hollandaise  sauce 

(from  packaged  mix) 
Melted  butter 


Trim  crusts  off  bread  and  roll  slices  flat.  Spread  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 
Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Fold  each  slice  of  bread  over  an  asparagus 
spear  (or  two  if  they  are  thin).  Insert  a  toothpick  to  hold  together.  Cut  in 
two  for  bite  size  servings.  Brush  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  a 
little  more  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  12  minutes.  Can  be 
made  ahead,  but  do  not  bake.  Place  foldovers  on  baking  sheet  and  cover 
with  slightly  moist  towel.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  bake. 

Betsy  Deupree 


1 0  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Dill 
Vegetable  Dip 

Yields  4</2  Cups 

2  cups  mayonnaise 

2  cups  sour  cream 

3  tablespoons  minced  fresh 

parsley  or  1  tablespoon 
dried  parsley 

2  to  3  tablespoons  grated 

onion 

3  tablespoons  dill  weed 

\lA  tablespoons  seasoned  salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  together. 
Chill  several  hours.  Serve 
with  raw  vegetables. 

Wench'  Kennev 


Asparagus  Roll-Ups 


3  ounces  blue  cheese,  crumbled 
8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
1  egg,  beaten 


1  (24-oz)  loaf  white  bread 

2  (15-oz)  cans  asparagus  spears 
1  cup  butter,  melted 


To  make  filling,  combine  cheeses  and  egg.  Remove  crusts  from  bread  and 
roll  each  slice  thin  with  rolling  pin.  Spread  filling  on  bread.  Lay  asparagus 
spear  on  each  slice  and  roll  jellyroll  style.  Dip  in  melted  butter,  place  on 
baking  sheet  and  freeze.  When  frozen,  slice  each  spear  into  3  bite-sized 
sections  and  refreeze  until  ready  to  use.  Bake  on  baking  sheet  at  425 
degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Robert  Westbrook 

Carolina  Caviar 


3  cans  blackeyed  peas,  washed 

and  drained 
2  jalapeno  peppers,  diced 
1  medium  onion,  finely  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  diced 


1  jar  ('/4  cup)  pimentos,  washed 

and  drained 
1  large  clove  garlic,  diced 
1  cup  Wishbone  Italian  dressing 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Cover  and  refrigerate  at  least  5 
hours.  Use  Fritos  or  your  favorite  corn  chip  to  dip. 

This  looks  a  little  different,  but  tastes  delicious.   Guaranteed! 


Lisa  Garrett 


Appetizers  and  Beverages   1 1 


/  took  this  hummus  for  an 
appetizer  when  the  MPPC 
group  that  went  to  Hungary  got 
together  at  Christmas.  I  spread 
it  lightly  on  a  red  tortilla  and 
put  a  washed  and  towel-dried 
piece  of  leaf  lettuce  on  the 
hummus,  rolled  up  the  tortilla 
and  sliced  it  into  rounds.    Wliile 
I  made  it  thinking  of  the 
Christmas  colors,  the  result  was 
also  much  like  the  red,  white 
and  green  Hungarian  flag. 

Katherine  Forney 


Hummus 


1  (15-oz)  can  chickpeas,  drained 

2  to  3  cloves  garlic 

2/4  tablespoons  olive  oil 
2!/2  tablespoons  warm  water 


Juice  from  1  lemon 

%  cup  plus  1  tablespoon  tahini 

(sesame  paste) 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Use  food  processor  to  mince  garlic  with  chickpeas.  Add  other  ingredients. 
Blend  until  mostly  smooth.  It's  easy  to  make  this  hummus  red  by  adding 
dried  tomatoes,  or  green  by  adding  basil  or  parsley. 

Hummus  is  great  on  a  sandwich,  or  with  wedges  of  pita  bread 
or  tortilla  chips. 

Katherine  Forney 

Parmesan  Walnut  Spread 
in  Endive 

Yields  40  Appetizers 


1  small  garlic  clove,  minced 
and  mashed  to  paste  with 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

'/z  cup  finely  chopped  celery 


V»  pound  fresh  Parmesan  cheese, 

finely  diced 
1  cup  finely  chopped  walnuts, 

lightly  toasted 
%  cup  finely  chopped  flat  leaf 

parsley 
4  heads  of  Belgian  endive 


In  bowl,  whisk  together  garlic  paste,  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil; 
stir  in  Parmesan  cheese  and  celery.  Stir  in  walnuts  and  parsley.  Trim 
endive  and  separate  leaves,  keeping  each  leaf  whole.  Spoon  mixture  into  fat 
end  of  prepared  endive  leaves. 

Elizabeth  Pitts 


1 2  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Before  the  advent  of  gyms  and 
family  life  centers,  the  side  yard 
along  Providence  was  a  favorite 
neighborhood  football  venue. 
Many  of  our  members  and  a  lot 
of  Methodists,  Baptists  and 
Episcopalians  cut  their  football 
teeth  there.   One  of  the  more 
outstanding  athletes  and  punters 
was  Blair  Cochran  Gammon, 
the  third  child  of  then  minister 
Edgar  Gammon,  who  left  to 
become  president  of  Hampden- 
Sydney  College. 

J.  Alex  McMillan.  Ill 


Mushroom  Croustades 


Yields  24  Croustades 


Croustades: 

24  slices  Pepperidge  Farm 

thin-sliced  white  bread 
4  tablespoons  butter,  melted 
Mushroom  Filling: 
4  tablespoons  butter 
3  tablespoons  chopped  spring 

onion 
'A  pound  mushrooms,  finely 

chopped 


2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  evaporated  milk 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

'A  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

V/i  tablespoons  chopped  chives 

Vz  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Vi  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 


Croustades:  Cut  24  circles  of  bread  with  coffee  can  or  cereal  bowl.  Brush 
bread  with  melted  butter.  Gently  push  each  circle  of  bread  into  a  section  of 
a  mini  muffin  tin. 

Mushroom  Filling:  Melt  butter  in  a  heavy  saucepan.  Add  onions  and  cook 
slowly  for  about  4  minutes.  Stir  constantly  to  prevent  browning.  Add 
mushrooms  and  stir  until  they  are  well  coated  with  butter  and  onions. 
Continue  cooking,  stirring  occasionally,  for  15  minutes.  Remove  from  heat 
and  add  flour.  Stir  well.  Return  to  heat,  add  milk,  and  cook  3  more 
minutes.  Add  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  parsley,  chives  and  lemon  juice  and 
mix  well.  Cool  completely  and  spoon  into  prepared  muffin  tins. 
Croustades  may  be  frozen  at  this  point.  When  ready  to  serve,  sprinkle 
croustades  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  400  degrees 
about  5  to  8  minutes  or  until  heated  through. 

Clair  Campbell 

tX*  *J*  ►J*"  ►+*  >r* 


Appetizers  and  Beverages   1 3 


Baked  Vidalia 
Onion  Spread 

2  cups  Vidalia  onions, 
chopped 

2  cups  grated  Swiss  cheese 
1/4  cups  Hellmann's 

mayonnaise 

3  ounces  Parmesan  cheese, 

divided 

Mix  together  onions,  Swiss 
cheese,  mayonnaise,  and  half 
the  Parmesan  cheese.  Spread 
into  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
with  remaining  Pannesan 
cheese.  Bake  at  325  degrees 
for  45  minutes. 

Luci  Heesemcm 


Mushroom  Roll-Ups 


1  pound  fresh  mushrooms, 

finely  chopped 
Vi  cup  margarine  or  butter 
6  tablespoons  flour 
1  Vi  teaspoons  salt 
'A  teaspoon  Accent 


2  cups  half-and-half 

1%  tablespoons  chopped  chives 

2  loaves  white  bread,  crusts 

trimmed  off,  and  rolled  thin 

with  rolling  pin 


Saute  mushrooms  in  margarine  for  5  minutes.  Blend  in  flour,  salt  and 
Accent.  Stir  in  half-and-half  and  simmer  until  thick.  Add  chives.  Spread 
on  bread  and  roll  like  a  jellyroll.  Cut  into  2  pieces.  Freeze  if  desired. 
Defrost  and  bake  at  400  degrees  for  20  minutes.  May  substitute  onions  for 
chives. 

Laura  Greer 

PORTABELLA  PlZZETTAS 

Seizes  Twelve 
Vi  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped         1  teaspoon  crushed,  dried  basil 


spinach 
1  Vi  cups  shredded  mozzarella 

cheese 
Vi  cup  coarsely  chopped  turkey 

pepperoni 


'/>  teaspoon  coarsely  ground  pepper 
12  Portabella  mushrooms, 
3  to  4  inches  in  diameter 
2  tablespoons  margarine,  melted 


Thaw  spinach  and  drain.  Press  out  liquid,  then  finely  chop.  Mix  spinach, 
cheese,  pepperoni,  basil  and  pepper.  Clean  mushrooms,  removing  stems. 
Place  on  baking  sheet,  open  side  up.  Spoon  topping  of  spinach  mixture  on 
each  mushroom.  Brush  with  melted  margarine.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  12 
minutes  or  broil  (4  inches  from  heat)  for  3  to  4  minutes. 

Cherie  Higsins 


14  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Spinach  Dip 

Yields  4  Caps 

1  package  dry  vegetable 
soup  mix 

2  cups  sour  cream 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  (10-oz)  package  frozen 
chopped  spinach, 
thawed  and  well  drained 

3  green  onions, 
finely  chopped 

Stir  soup  mix,  sour  cream  and 
mayonnaise  together  to  blend 
well.  Mix  in  spinach  and 
onions.  Cover  and  chill  2 
hours.  Stir  before  serving. 

Elizabeth  Craig 


Baked  Spinach  Spread 


1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped 
spinach,  thawed  and  drained 

1  (12-oz)  jar  marinated  artichoke 
hearts,  drained  and  chopped 

3  garlic  cloves 


Vi  cup  mayonnaise 
8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
1  cup  Parmesan  cheese 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Spread  into  8-inch  square  or  round  baking 
dish.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Serve  warm  with  crackers  or 
bread. 

Rita  Vandiver 

Quick  Spinach  Dip 

1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped         1  (0.4-oz)  package  Ranch  Style 


spinach,  thawed  and  drained 
1  cup  sour  cream 
1  tablespoon  mayonnaise 
1  tablespoon  minced  onion 
Juice  of  Vi  lemon 


buttermilk  dressing  mix 
1  teaspoon  parsley 
1  teaspoon  dill  weed 
1  teaspoon  herb  seasoning 
Celery  salt,  garlic  salt  (optional) 


Squeeze  spinach  with  hand  to  remove  excess  water.  Mix  all  ingredients, 
except  spinach,  blending  well.  Add  spinach  and  chill.  Serve  with  crackers. 

Harriet  Pharr 


Appetizers  and  Beverages   1 5 


Sun  Dried 
Tomato  Dip 

Yields  l'/i  Cups 

8  ounces  sour  cream 

Vi  cup  finely  chopped  sun 

dried  tomatoes 
1  tablespoon  snipped  chives 
1  teaspoon  red  pepper  sauce 

Mix  all  ingredients  together 
well  and  refrigerate  until 
needed. 

Lynda  Shu  let;  staff 


Spinach  Spread 


1  package  frozen  chopped  spinach 
Vi  cup  chopped  parsley 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion 
1  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  pepper 
Hellmann's  mayonnaise  -  enough 
so  mixture  can  be  spread 


Thaw  spinach  and  squeeze  out  water.  Add  parsley,  onion,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  well.  Add  mayonnaise  in  desired  amount.  The  secret  is  in  the  pepper  - 
-  don't  vary  the  amount.  Serve  with  crackers. 

Joan  Heimlich 

Stuffed  Cherry  Tomatoes 


36  cherry  tomatoes 
1/4  pounds  bacon,  crisply  fried 
(or  1  jar  crumbled  Real  Bacon) 


8  green  onions,  finely  chopped 
lA  cup  mayonnaise 


Hollow  out  tomatoes  and  turn  upside  down  to  drain  on  paper  towels.  Mix 
crumbled  bacon,  chopped  onion,  and  mayonnaise.  Stuff  into  tomato  shells. 
Serve  as  an  hors  d'oeuvre. 

Kathy  Southerland 

Spicy  Water  Chestnut  Dip 


3  ounces  cream  cheese 
VA  cups  sour  cream 
Vi  cup  coarsely  chopped  water 
chestnuts 


%  cup  pimento  stuffed  olives, 

sliced 
1  envelope  Italian  salad  dressing 

mix 


Blend  cheese  and  sour  cream  until  smooth.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and 
chill.  If  in  a  rush,  put  everything  in  food  processor,  but  add  water  chestnuts 
last  so  they  don't  get  too  fine.  Serve  with  Fritos. 

Doris  Petersen 


1 6  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


In  1929  when  I  was  a  12-year- 
old  member  of  a  Sunday  school 
class  at  First  Presbyterian 
Church  in  Charlotte,  the  newly 
formed  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church  was 
meeting  at  Queens  College.  At 
some  point  1  realized  that  all  the 
members  of  my  class  except  for 
one  other  fellow  and  me  had 
moved  to  the  Myers  Park 
church.  Consequently,  I  asked 
my  mother  if  I  could  join  Myers 
Park,  and  she  consented.  1 
would  walk  from  my  home  on 
East  Morehead  Street  to 
Dilworth  Road  West  and  catch  a 
streetcar  that  went  through 
Myers  Park,  ending  near  the 
Myers  Park  Country  Club. 
When  it  passed  the  corner 
where  Myers  Park  Baptist 
Church  is  located,  I  would  get 
out  and  go  to  church  at  Queens 
College.  1  have  been  a  member 
for  71  years,  and  I  believe  I  am 
one  of  the  few  persons  who 
joined  MPPC  because  his 
Sunday  school  class  deserted 
him.  Anyway,  I  don  't  regret  my 
experience  or  the  transfer  to 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church. 

Alex  R.  Josephs 


Best  Ever  Cheese  Ring 


1  pound  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 
1  cup  pecans,  chopped 
/■i  cup  mayonnaise 


1  medium  onion,  grated 
Dash  of  garlic  salt 
'A  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 
1  cup  strawberry  preserves 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  preserves  and  mix  well.  Chill.  Put  into  3  'A 
cup  ring  mold.  At  serving  time,  unmold  and  fill  center  with  strawberry 
preserves.  You  can  put  preserves  into  a  custard  cup  in  center,  if  desired. 
Serve  with  crackers.  Can  be  prepared  a  day  before  serving. 


Jocelyn  Rose 


Cheese  Rectangles 


Yields  200  Squares 


214  to  3  loaves  Pepperidge  Farm 

sandwich  bread 
4  jars  Old  English  cheese  spread 
1  pound  margarine,  softened 


1  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 
V/i  teaspoons  dill 
Dash  of  red  pepper 


Remove  crust  from  bread.  Using  two  slices  at  a  time,  cut  into  four  strips, 
then  cut  across  (you  will  have  8  little  rectangular  sandwiches).  Mix 
remaining  ingredients.  For  each  sandwich,  spread  cheese  mixture  between 
two  bread  slices,  "ice"  all  sides  and  top  of  sandwich,  and  place  on  baking 
sheet.  Freeze  sandwiches  on  baking  sheets.  When  frozen,  place  in  a  bag 
and  store  in  freezer  until  ready  for  use.  Bake  frozen  rectangles  on  greased 
baking  sheet  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Keep  these  on  hand  in  the  freezer  for  unexpected  company. 

Chris  Kirkland 


Appetizers  and  Beverages   1 7 


The  Covenant  Church  School 
Class  had  a  wonderful  social  at 
Mary  and  Jim  Covington  's  Lake 
Wylie  house  on  a  warm  Sunday 
afternoon  and  evening. 
Everyone  brought  his  specialty 
food  to  accompany  the  grilled 
barbecue  chicken.    We  enjoyed 
every  rich  calorie  we  consumed. 
We  sat  on  the  screened  porch 
and  had  lots  of  laughter  along 
with  meaningful  conversations. 
It  was  not  easy  to  depart  from 
this  special  and  memorable 
event. 

Dot  Elmore 


Cheese  Log 


Yields  15  Slices 


8  ounces  Velveeta  cheese 
6  ounces  cream  cheese 


1  small  can  green  chilies,  chopped 
Crackers  for  serving 


Soften  Velveeta  and  cream  cheese.  Drain  chilies.  Place  Velveeta  cheese 
between  pieces  of  wax  paper,  and  roll  thin  with  rolling  pin  to  size  about 
12x7  inches.  Spread  softened  cream  cheese  over  Velveeta.  Spread  chilies 
on  top.  Roll  up  as  a  log.  Cut  into  2  short  logs.  Wrap  logs  in  clean  wax 
paper  and  refrigerate  until  firm.  Put  on  tray  to  serve  and  cut  with  knife  to 
place  on  crackers  as  needed. 

Dot  Elmore 

Cheese  Puff  Wreath 

Yields  20  Appetizer  Servings 


VA  cups  water 
Pinch  of  salt 
10  tablespoons  butter 
2  cups  flour 


5  eggs 

12  ounces  Swiss  cheese,  grated, 
divided 


Heat  water,  salt  and  butter  in  large  pot  to  boiling.  Remove  from  heat.  Add 
flour  all  at  once.  Stir  mixture  until  a  firm  dough  forms.  Place  back  on  heat 
and  carefully  stir  until  dough  loosens  from  bottom  of  pot.  Remove  from 
heat  and  add  eggs  one  at  a  time  until  fully  incorporated  into  dough.  This  is 
the  hard  part  -just  keep  stirring!  Add  grated  cheese,  reserving  about  Vi  cup 
to  sprinkle  on  top.  Stir  until  cheese  is  evenly  distributed  into  dough.  Form 
dough  into  wreath  shape  on  greased  baking  sheet.  Sprinkle  remaining 
cheese  on  top  of  wreath.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  50  minutes. 

This  is  a  popular  item  at  the  choir  brunches  held  between  church  services 

when  both  choirs  sing  at  both  services  at  Christmas  and  Easter.  It  is  also 

an  elegant  appetizer  served  with  red  or  white  wine. 

Jannica  Greife 


1 8  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Chutney  Cheese  Ball 

11  ounces  cream  cheese  lA  jar  Real  Bacon  Bits 

3  tablespoons  sour  cream  Vi  cup  green  onions,  chopped 
1  snack-size  box  raisins  Vi  jar  Raffetto  Chut  Nuts 

1  tablespoon  curry  powder  or  chutney 

1  cup  salted  peanuts 

With  electric  mixer,  blend  cream  cheese  and  sour  cream.  Stir  in  remaining 
ingredients.  Spread  into  mold  or  1 -quart  bowl,  and  chill  until  firm.  May 
also  be  stored  in  covered  container  and  used  as  a  spread.  Keeps  2  weeks  in 
refrigerator.  Serve  with  crackers. 

The  curry  gives  this  cheese  ball  a  golden  color,  and  the  nuts,  raisins,  and 
green  onions  compliment  that  shade.  It  is  a  very  attractive  appetizer. 

Beverly  Darlington 

Pesto  Pimento  Cheese 

2  cups  finely  shredded  sharp  1  teaspoon  olive  oil 

Cheddar  cheese  1  clove  garlic 

%  cup  shredded  Parmesan  cheese  1  to  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise 

1  (4-oz)  jar  pimentos,  with  juice  Ground  pepper  to  taste 

4  to  5  basil  leaves 

In  a  medium  bowl,  toss  together  with  a  fork  the  Cheddar  cheese,  Parmesan 
cheese  and  pimentos.  To  make  pesto,  combine  in  small  food  processor  (or 
finely  chop)  the  basil,  garlic  and  olive  oil.  Add  pesto  to  cheese  mixture  and 
blend  with  a  fork.  Add  mayonnaise  and  fresh  pepper  to  taste. 

This  spread  is  a  tasty  variation  of  an  old  favorite. 
Serve  on  crackers  as  an  appetizer. 

Sally  Helweg 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  1 9 


Gateau  de  Fromage 


24  ounces  cream  cheese,  divided 
4  ounces  Camembert  cheese 
4  ounces  Gruyere  cheese 


4  ounces  blue  cheese 
Vi  cup  chopped  pecans 
2  tablespoons  sour  cream 


Using  a  mixer  or  food  processor,  mix  8  ounces  cream  cheese  with  the  sour 
cream.  Spread  into  8-inch  circle  on  a  serving  plate  (line  with  aluminum  foil 
if  planning  to  freeze).  Sprinkle  pecans  on  top  of  cream  cheese  and  sour 
cream  mixture.  Blend  remaining  16  ounces  cream  cheese  with  Camembert, 
Gruyere,  and  blue  cheese  and  spread  on  top  of  sour  cream  and  cream  cheese 
base.  To  serve,  garnish  with  sliced  apples,  parsley,  and  crackers.  If  frozen, 
peel  off  aluminum  foil  and  place  on  serving  plate;  garnish  after  defrosted. 

An  8-inch  round  cake  pan  is  a  nice  size  to  use  for  freezing  this.  Line  with 

aluminum  foil  before  putting  layers  in  -  then  you  can  lift  out  the 

gateau  once  it  is  frozen. 

Nola  Linker 

Laura's  Cheese  Biscuits 


1  pound  extra  sharp  Cracker 

Barrel  cheese,  grated 

2  cups  flour 
Vi  cup  butter 


3/i  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
Vi  cup  ground  nuts 
Salt  to  taste 


Mix  together  all  ingredients  except  salt.  May  add  several  drops  of  water  if 
needed.  Divide  dough  into  8  equal  parts.  Pat  and  shape  each  part  into  a  log 
shape  about  the  size  of  a  quarter.  Wrap  each  log  in  wax  paper  and 
refrigerate  overnight.  May  freeze,  if  desired.  When  ready  to  bake,  slice 
thin  (about  Vs-inch  to  Vi-inch)  and  place  on  lightly  greased  baking  sheet. 
Sprinkle  with  salt.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  8  to  10  minutes  or  more  until 
biscuits  are  lightly  browned  on  the  bottom.  Remove  from  baking  sheet 
immediately  and  cool  on  wire  rack. 

Wendv  Kennev 


20  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


/  cannot  remember  exactly 
which  Christmas  it  was  when 
Mrs.  Akers  first  brought  our 
family  her  fantastic  "cheese 
biscuits  ",  but  I  do  know  that 
they  instantly  became  my 
favorite  treat  at  Christmas  time. 
Over  the  years,  because  I 
hoarded  all  of  the  family 's 
biscuits,  she  decided  to  bring 
me  my  own  container.  This 
tradition  continued  for  many 
years  until,  at  my  request,  my 
mother  asked  Mrs.  Akers  for  the 
recipe.  For  those  of  you  who 
were  fortunate  to  know  this 
loving  lady,  you  know  she  was 
kind  enough  to  pass  it  on.   Thus 
now  I  continue  her  tradition  in 
her  memory  with  a  lot  of  love. 

John  Broadway 


Cheese  Biscuits  with  Dates 
or  Pecans 


Yields  3  to  4  Dozen 


Vi  pound  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 
IV2  cups  all-purpose  flour 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 
'/4  teaspoon  red  pepper 
Pecan  halves  or  whole  pitted 
dates,  cut  in  half 


Cream  cheese  and  butter  by  hand.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix  well. 
Chill  for  2  hours.  When  ready  to  bake,  roll  small  amount  of  cheese  mixture 
between  sheets  of  wax  paper.  Cut  with  small  round  cutter.  Place  a  pecan  or 
date  half  on  each  round  and  fold.  Spray  baking  sheet  lightly  with  cooking 
spray.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes  or  until  slightly  browned. 

<•"  Quick  method:  Pulse  all  ingredients  in  food  processor  until  mixture 
becomes  a  ball.  Do  not  overprocess.  Turn  out  onto  wax  paper  and  roll  into 
a  round  log  shape.  Chill.  When  ready  to  bake,  cut  log  into  thin  slices. 
Wrap  pecan  or  date  halves  in  cheese  round.  Bake  as  directed  above. 


Kathy  Howe 


+      * 


Mrs.  Akers'  Cheese  Biscuits 

Yields  4  to  5  Dozen 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  pound  NY  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  V*  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

grated  Pecans 
1V4  sticks  butter 

Blend  all  ingredients,  except  pecans,  by  hand.  Be  patient  because  this  takes 
a  little  time.  After  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed,  roll  into  3  8-inch  to 
10-inch  long  rolls.  Wrap  in  wax  paper  and  store  in  refrigerator  for  2  to  3 
days.  When  ready  to  bake,  cut  into  '/s-inch  slices.  Place  on  ungreased 
cookie  sheet  and  top  with  pecan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  minutes. 

John  Broadway 
Appetizers  and  Beverages  2 1 


Cheese  Straws 


1  cup  butter,  softened 

Vz  pound  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 
Vi  pound  extra  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese,  grated 


2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

2  cups  Rice  Krispies 


Cream  butter  and  cheese.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Pinch  off  dough  in 
little  marble  size  balls.  Flatten  on  baking  sheet.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  8 
to  10  minutes.  Watch  carefully.  Bake  until  lightly  browned  around  edges. 


Betsy  Freeman 


Baked  Brie 

Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 


1  small  round  of  Brie 
1  refrigerated  pie  crust 
Preserves  (raspberry,  blueberry  or 
blackberry) 


Toasted  pecans  or  walnuts, 

chopped 
Apples,  grapes  or  crackers 


Let  refrigerated  pie  crust  come  to  room  temperature.  Place  on  greased 
cookie  sheet  and  gently  smooth  out  fold  marks  with  fingers.  Place  Brie  in 
center  of  pie  crust.  Cover  top  of  Brie  with  layer  of  preserves.  Toast  and 
chop  nuts  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  preserves.  Enclose  Brie  with  pie  crust. 
Carefully  pat  pie  crust  to  seal  as  much  as  possible.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for 
20  minutes  until  pie  crust  is  brown.  Serve  with  apple  slices  (alternate  red 
and  green  slices  around  Brie)  or  crackers  and  grapes. 

Easy,  quick  appetizer.   Can  also  use  large  round  of  Brie  and 
two  refrigerated  pie  crusts. 

Marsha  Stiegel 


22  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Speaking  of  a  loaf  of  bread,  we 
had  just  moved  to  Charlotte  in 
1984  and  were  new  members  at 
MPPC.  During  second  service, 
Communion  Sunday,  my 
youngest,  four-year-old 
Kensley,  whispered  to  me,  "I'm 
starving! "  /  smiled  and  looked 
to  my  left.  Here  came  a  huge 
loaf  of  bread  down  the  row  to 
reach  my  hungry  child  before  I 
could  say  anything.  I  could  just 
see  her  breaking  off  half  the 
loaf,  but  she  just  took  a  pinch 
and  bowed  her  head  to  pray. 
Whew!! 

Anita  Zeigler 


Melted  Brie  in 
hollowed-out  loaf 

Yields  Ten  to  Twelve  Appetizer  Servings 


1  round  or  oval  loaf  French  bread 
'A  cup  olive  oil  or  melted  butter 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 


1  to  lVz  pounds  Brie,  Camembert 
or  St.  Andre  cheese 


With  a  serrated  knife,  cut  down  through  top  of  bread  to  leave  a  shell  about 
'/•>  inch  thick  on  sides.  Do  not  cut  through  bottom  of  loaf.  Pull  center  of 
loaf  free  in  a  single  piece,  leaving  about  a  '/2-inch  thick  base  at  the  bottom 
of  the  bread  shell.  Around  the  rim  of  the  bread  shell,  make  cuts  1  Vi  inches 
apart  and  1 XA  inches  deep.  Cut  center  portion  of  bread  into  slices. 

Mix  olive  oil  and  garlic.  Brush  inside  of  bread  shell  with  about  3 
tablespoons  oil.  Brush  bread  slices  with  remaining  oil.  Place  cheese  with 
rind  (or  trim  rind  off,  if  desired)  in  bread  shell,  cutting  as  needed  to  fit. 
Place  filled  bread  shell  and  bread  slices  in  a  single  layer  on  a  10x1 5-inch 
baking  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Remove  bread  slices  to 
rack  to  cool.  Continue  baking  cheese-filled  bread  until  cut  edge  of  bread 
shell  is  golden  and  cheese  melts,  about  10  minutes  longer. 

Place  bread  bowl  on  serving  board  and  surround  with  toasted  bread  slices, 
crisp  green  grapes  and  sliced  apples  and  pears.  Be  sure  to  break  up  the 
bread  bowl  for  dipping  as  you  eat. 

For  two  servings,  follow  the  preceding  directions  using  1  small  loaf  of 
bread,  Vi  pound  Brie  or  other  cheese,  3  tablespoons  olive  oil  and  1  clove 
minced  garlic. 

For  an  easy  dinner  for  two,  try  the  smaller  version  with  a  green  salad. 

Anita  Zeigler 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  23 


Cranberry 
Delight 

2  cups  fresh  or  frozen 

cranberries 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  yellow  raisins 
1  teaspoon  minced  onion 

Combine  all  ingredients  in 
pot  and  place  over  medium 
heat.  Stir  until  mixture  is 
thick  and  some  of  cranberries 
pop.  Spread  over  block  of 
cream  cheese  and  serve  warm 
with  crackers.  May  also  add 
a  little  orange  zest  and 
chopped  nuts. 

A  crowd  favorite.  Not  just 
a  holiday  dish  -  great 
throughout  the  year. 

Kim  LeNeave 


Warmed  Cranberry  Brie 

Serves  Twelve 

'A  cup  canned  crushed  cranberry  'A  teaspoon  rum  extract  or  orange 

sauce  extract 

2  tablespoons  packed  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  chopped  pecans 

%  teaspoon  ground  nutmeg  1  (8-oz)  round  Brie  cheese 

Combine  cranberry  sauce,  brown  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  extract.  Peel  off  top 
rind  of  Brie,  leaving  a  '/4-inch  rim.  Top  with  cranberry  mixture  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  pecans.  Bake  at  500  degrees  for  5  minutes.  Serve  with 
crackers. 


Great  holiday  appetizer  -  pretty  on  the  table. 


Curried  Sherry  Pate 

Serves  Eight 


Sandy  Dupuy 


6  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
lA  teaspoon  garlic  powder 
Vi  teaspoon  curry  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 


4  teaspoons  sherry 
1  (9-oz)  jar  chutney 
'A  bunch  green  onions  (tops  only), 
finely  chopped 


Soften  cheeses,  then  blend  with  seasonings  and  sherry.  Spread  mixture  in 
small  shallow  dish.  Spread  chutney  over  top.  Refrigerate  for  2  days  before 
serving.  When  ready  to  use,  remove  from  refrigerator  2  hours  before 
serving.  Sprinkle  chopped  onions  over  all.  Serve  with  sesame  Melba  toast 
or  other  crackers. 

Lib  Chapman 


24  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Mexican  Dip 

1  pound  ground  beef 

1  onion,  chopped 

1  package  taco  seasoning  mix 

1  can  refried  beans 

1  pound  sour  cream 

2  cups  shredded  Cheddar 

cheese 

Brown  ground  beef  and 
onion;  drain.  Add  taco 
seasoning  mix  and  refried 
beans.  Mix  together  and  put 
in  1 0-inch  quiche  pan.  Let 
mixture  cool,  then  spread 
sour  cream  over  meat  mixture 
and  top  with  shredded 
Cheddar  cheese.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  30  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  tortilla  chips. 

Brynne  Miles 


Artichoke  Dip  —  Mexican  Style 


1  can  artichokes,  drained 

Vi  cup  Parmesan  cheese 

8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 


1  (16-0/,)  jar  salsa 
1  cup  mayonnaise 
Vz  to  3/4  cup  chopped  cilantro 


Chop  artichokes  and  mix  with  other  ingredients.  Pour  mixture  into  baking 
dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  hot  and  bubbly.  Serve 
with  tortilla  chips. 


This  will  be  the  hit  of  the  party! 

Burrito  Dip 


Luci  Heeseman 


8  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  small  onion,  chopped 
5  canned  jalapenos,  or  more 
to  taste 


1  can  Hormel  No-Bean  chili 
8  ounces  shredded  sharp  Cheddar 
cheese 


Cut  block  of  cream  cheese  in  half  lengthwise.  Put  it  in  shallow, 
microwavable  baking  dish  and  press  it  firmly  until  it  covers  the  entire 
bottom  of  dish.  Sprinkle  chopped  onions  over  cream  cheese.  Spread  chili 
over  cream  cheese  and  onions.  Cut  canned  jalapenos  into  little  pieces  and 
sprinkle  over  chili.  Sprinkle  top  with  sharp  Cheddar  cheese.  Cook  in 
microwave  oven  on  high  about  8  minutes,  until  cheese  is  melted.  Serve 
immediately  with  tortilla  chips.  May  also  be  baked  in  conventional  oven  at 
350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Can  be  made  a  day  ahead  and  kept  tightly 
covered  in  refrigerator.  Heat  before  serving. 

Big  hit  and  easy!  I  usually  double  recipe  for  a  party  of  eight  or  more. 
I  prefer  the  conventional  oven  method. 

Betty  Heeseman 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  25 


Seven  Layer 
Mexican  Dip 

2  cans  bean  dip 

3  avocados,  mashed 

1  cup  sour  cream 

4  green  onions,  chopped 

2  to  4  tomatoes,  chopped 

1  cup  chopped  black  olives 
1  cup  extra  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese,  grated 
1  medium  jar  hot  salsa 

Layer  ingredients  on  serving 
platter.  Serve  with  tostitos. 

Sherri  Davies 


Black  Bean  Salsa 

Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


2  (15-oz)  cans  black  beans, 

rinsed  and  drained 
2  cups  frozen  corn 
2  large  summer  tomatoes,  chopped 
Vi  cup  Vidalia  onion,  chopped 
14  cup  chopped  fresh  cilantro 


3  to  4  tablespoons  fresh  lime  juice 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  red  wine  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  freshly  ground  pepper 

Avocado  (optional) 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Add  chopped  avocado  if  desired.  Cover  and 
chill  until  serving  time. 

Punkin  Brookshire 

Mango  Salsa 


Yields  PA  cups 


\l/i  cups  chopped  mango 
1  small  clove  garlic,  crushed 
Vi  small  jalapeno  pepper,  seeded 

and  minced 
Wi  teaspoons  chopped  fresh 

parsley  or  cilantro 


1 4  cup  sugar 

XA  cup  sliced  green  onions 
Vi  cup  white  vinegar 
2  tablespoons  lime  juice 


Combine  first  4  ingredients  in  a  medium  bowl;  set  aside.  Combine  sugar 
and  remaining  ingredients  in  a  saucepan;  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  until  sugar 
dissolves.  Pour  hot  mixture  over  mango  mixture,  stirring  gently.  Cover  and 
chill.  Serve  as  an  appetizer  with  chips,  or  with  cooked  ham  or  pork. 

•"  Quick  method:  This  can  be  made  in  5  minutes  by  putting  everything  into 
a  food  processor.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  lime  juice  in  microwave  to 
dissolve  sugar  before  combining  with  other  ingredients.  Mango  can  be 
added  last  and  processed  only  briefly  to  maintain  "chunkiness". 

Add  more  jalapeno  to  spice  it  up  if  you  like.   You  can  also  add  red,  yellow, 
and/or  green  pepper  diced  for  a  chunkier  salsa. 

Man,'  Catherine  Chesnev 


26  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Siesta 
Appetizer  Pie 

3  ripe  avocados,  mashed 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
8  ounces  sour  cream 

2  green  onions,  chopped 
1  (8-oz)  jar  picante  sauce 

1  cup  grated  Monterey  Jack 
cheese 

Mix  avocados  and  lemon 
juice.  In  serving  dish,  layer 
avocado,  sour  cream,  onions, 
picante  sauce  and  cheese. 
Chill  and  serve  with  tortilla 
chips. 

Wendy  Kenney 


Mexican  Dip 


2  (9-oz)  packages  Stouffer's 
creamed  spinach,  thawed 

1  (15-oz)  jar  marinated  artichoke 
hearts 

6  ounces  pepper  jack  cheese, 
cut  in  pieces 


'/j  teaspoon  minced  garlic 
'A  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 
%  cup  Parmesan  cheese 
'■'>  cup  chunky  salsa 
Sour  cream 


Drain  creamed  spinach  and  artichoke  hearts.  Mix  spinach,  artichoke  hearts, 
pepper  jack  cheese,  garlic,  Tabasco  sauce,  and  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  in  pie 
plate.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  12  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Spread  salsa  on 
top  and  put  sour  cream  in  center.  Serve  with  tortilla  chips. 


Jeannie  Fuller 


Monterey  Quesadillas 

Yields  30  Wedges 


10  (7  to  8-inch)  flour  tortillas 
2/4  cups  grated  Monterey  Jack 
cheese 


1  (4-0/.)  can  chopped  green  chilies 
1  (2!-.i-oz)  can  chopped  ripe 
olives 


Brush  both  sides  of  5  tortillas  with  water  and  place  on  ungreased  baking 
sheet.  Sprinkle  lA  cup  cheese  on  each  tortilla.  Sprinkle  chopped  green 
chilies  and  chopped  ripe  olives  on  top  of  cheese.  Top  each  with  another 
tortilla.    Brush  tortilla  with  water,  and  then  cover  baking  sheet  with 
aluminum  foil.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  about  10  minutes,  or  until  cheese  is 
melted.  Remove  from  oven  and  cut  each  tortilla  into  6  wedges.  Serve  hot. 

Donna  Witman 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  27 


BLT  Dip 

Serves  Eight 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  tomato,  chopped 

1  pound  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
Freshly  ground  pepper  to  taste 

Stir  together  sour  cream  and 
mayonnaise.  Just  before 
serving,  mix  in  tomato,  bacon 
and  pepper.  Serve  with  toast 
points  or  chips. 

Fair  Whitley 


Ham  Rolls 


1  cup  butter,  softened 

2  to  3  teaspoons  horseradish 

mustard 
2  tablespoons  poppy  seeds 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 


1  medium  onion,  minced 

3  dozen  Pepperidge  Farm  party  rolls 
16  ounces  cooked  ham,  thinly  sliced 

2  cups  Swiss  cheese,  grated 


Mix  butter,  mustard,  poppy  seeds,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  onion.  Split 
package  of  rolls  horizontally  through  center.  Spread  butter  mixture  on  one 
side  of  rolls.  Layer  with  ham.  Sprinkle  cheese  on  top  of  ham.  Replace 
tops.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes.  These  freeze  well.  Cut 
into  individual  rolls  before  freezing  so  that  a  few  may  be  used  at  a  time. 


Jan  Stedman 


Liver  Pate 


Vz  cup  butter 

1  pound  chicken  livers, 

rinsed  and  drained 
1  medium  onion,  coarsely  chopped 
Thyme  to  taste 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Sherry  to  taste 
Half-and-half  (optional) 
Pistachios  (optional) 


Saute  livers  and  onions  in  butter  until  livers  are  cooked.  Cool  and  puree  in 
blender  or  food  processor.  Season  with  thyme,  salt,  pepper  and  sherry 
(about  1  tablespoon).  You  may  add  a  little  half-and-half  for  smoothness. 
Chill  until  ready  to  serve.  Top  with  pistachios,  if  desired,  and  serve  with 
sliced  baguette  or  Bremner  crackers. 

Can  be  made  several  days  in  advance.    Will  firm  up  in  refrigerator. 

Kim  Harrison 


28  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Cranberry  Meatballs 


1  pound  ground  beef  V*  to  'A  teaspoon  Tabasco 
lA  cup  breadcrumbs  sauce 

1  egg,  beaten  Salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  1  can  whole  cranberry  sauce 

sauce  1  cranberry  can  of  ketchup 

Make  meatballs  of  beef,  breadcrumbs,  egg  and  seasonings.  Put  in  casserole 
dish.  Pour  cranberries  and  ketchup  over  meatballs.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
45  minutes. 

Tina  Todd 

Stuffed  Grape  Leaves 

Yields  35  to  40  Leaves 

1  small  jar  grape  leaves  1  pound  lean  ground  beef 

1  package  wild  rice  mix  with  VA  tablespoons  Cavender's  All- 

seasonings  Purpose  Greek  Seasoning 

Remove  grape  leaves  from  jar  and  soak  to  rinse  off  vinegar  residue  and 
prevent  bitter  taste.  Cook  wild  rice  according  to  package  directions.  Brown 
ground  beef.  Stir  together  rice,  ground  beef  and  seasoning.  Drain  grape 
leaves.  Put  them  on  a  dry  flat  surface.  Break  off  stem  on  leaves.  Start  at 
stem  end  and  spoon  about  1  Vi  tablespoons  of  beef  and  rice  mixture  onto 
each  leaf  at  the  base.  Bring  up  sides  of  leaf,  fold  over  on  top  of  mix  and  roll 
up.  Continue  this  until  you  have  stuffed  as  many  grape  leaves  as  you  need. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  15  to  20  minutes  until  leaves  are  crispy.  Cool 
before  serving.  Can  be  served  without  cooking.  Refrigerate  unused  leaves. 
Extra  mix  can  be  frozen  for  another  time. 

Kimberlee  Garrison,  WDS  staff 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  29 


Hot  Sausage  Dip 


1  pound  regular  or  hot  sausage 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 


1  can  Rotel  tomatoes  and  green 
chili  peppers,  drained  well 


Cook  sausage  and  drain  well.  Add  cream  cheese  and  Rotel  tomatoes.  Bake 
at  325  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Serve  with  Fritos  or  tortilla  chips.  Can  vary 
"hotness"  depending  on  preference. 


There  will  not  be  any  left  over! 

Lila's  Sausage  Toast 


Alice  Carr 


Yields  75  Slices 


1  pound  hot  sausage 

1  pound  lean  ground  beef 

1  pound  Velveeta  cheese 

1  medium  onion,  finely  chopped 


Vi  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tablespoon  oregano 

Vi  teaspoon  garlic  powder 

2  loaves  Party  Rye  bread 


Cook  sausage,  ground  beef  and  onion  in  large  pan  until  brown,  adding 
Worcestershire  sauce,  oregano  and  garlic  powder.  Reduce  heat  and  blend  in 
cheese.  Mix  thoroughly.  Spread  on  slices  of  rye  bread.  Place  on  baking 
sheet  with  wax  paper  between  layers  and  freeze.  When  frozen,  put  in  zip- 
lock  bags  and  store  in  freezer  until  ready  to  use.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  15 
to  20  minutes. 

Wynne  McLean 


30  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Party  Sausage  Swirls 

Yields  80  Swirls 

2  (8-oz)  cans  crescent  dinner  rolls         1  pound  Jimmy  Dean  hot  pork 

2  tablespoons  hot  mustard  sausage 

Separate  rolls  into  4  rectangles  and  spread  with  mustard.  Spread  with  thin 
layer  of  sausage.  Roll  and  chill  until  ready  to  serve.  Thinly  slice  each  roll 
(10  swirls  to  a  roll)  and  place  on  lightly  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  400 
degrees  for  1 8  to  20  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

Always  a  favorite  and  never  any  leftovers. 

Gloria  Dowd  Keith 

Sausage  Cheese  Balls 

Yields  100  Balls 

1  pound  hot  sausage  1  pound  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

3  cups  Bisquick  grated 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  thoroughly.  Shape  into  small  balls,  using 
approximately  1  tablespoon  mixture  per  ball.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  15  to 
20  minutes. 

This  is  a  favorite  at  the  ARK  Sunday  School  Class 
Super  Bowl  party. 

Vicki  Garrett 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  3 1 


Belle 

Fontaine  Crab 

Dip 

1  pound  crab  meat 
6  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  small  onion,  finely  grated 
Few  dashes  Worcestershire 

sauce 
1  to  2  dashes  Louisiana  hot 

sauce 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
4  tablespoons  mayonnaise 

Mix  cream  cheese  and 
seasonings.  Add  crab  meat. 
Serve  as  hors  d'oeuvre  or  in 
stuffed  tomato. 

Anne  Wright 


Clam  Puffs 

Yields  40  Puffs 


Puffs: 


'A  cup  clam  juice 

(drained  from  clams  used; 

add  water  if  necessary) 
V*  cup  butter  or  margarine 
'A  cup  unsifted  all-purpose  flour 
2  eggs 


Clam  Filling: 

1  (8-oz  or  10/4-oz)  can  minced 

clams,  drained  well 
6  ounces  cream  cheese 

with  chives,  softened 
'A  teaspoon  salt 

2  dashes  hot  pepper  sauce 
Pinch  garlic  powder 


Puffs:  In  a  small  saucepan,  heat  clam  juice  and  butter  or  margarine  over 
medium  heat  until  juice  is  boiling  and  butter  or  margarine  has  melted. 
Remove  from  heat.  Immediately  add  flour  all  at  once.  Stir  briskly  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  mixture  forms  a  ball  and  leaves  side  of  pan.  With 
wooden  spoon,  beat  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  until  well  mixed.  Drop  dough  by 
teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  baking  sheet,  about  2  inches  apart.  Bake  at  375 
degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes  until  puffs  are  golden  brown.  Cool  on  wire 
rack.  When  cool,  cut  puffs  in  half. 

Filling:  In  a  small  bowl,  combine  all  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended. 
Spoon  small  amount  of  filling  into  each  puff.  Heat  in  oven  for  5  minutes. 
Serve  immediately. 

To  freeze:  After  filling  puffs,  do  not  heat,  but  transfer  to  freezer  containers, 
cover  and  freeze.  Can  freeze  up  to  four  months.  To  serve,  unwrap  and 
place  on  baking  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes. 

Eddie  Lynn  Finch 


32  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Crab  Grass 

8  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Vi  cup  chopped  onion 
1  (10-oz)  package  frozen 

chopped  spinach 
Vi  pound  frozen  or 

1  (7-oz)  can  crab  meat 
Vt  cup  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 

In  skillet,  melt  butter  and 
saute  onions  for  4  to  5 
minutes.  In  a  saucepan,  bring 
spinach  to  a  boil  according  to 
package  directions.  Cook  1 
minute,  drain  well  and  add  to 
onion  mixture.  Stir  in  crab 
and  cheese.  Serve  warm  in 
chafing  dish  with  crackers. 

Cherie  Higgins 


Clam  and  Spinach  Dip 


4  small  cans  minced  clams 

2  (10-oz)  packages  frozen  spinach 

12  ounces  cream  cheese 

Salt  to  taste 

Lemon  juice  to  taste 


1  tablespoon  butter 

1  small  onion,  minced 

2  tablespoons  flour 
1  cup  clam  juice 


Thaw  spinach  completely  on  paper  towels.  Drain  juice  from  cans  of  minced 
clams,  reserving  1  cup  of  clam  juice.  Saute  onion  in  butter.  Add  flour  and 
clam  juice,  stirring  until  thick.  In  double  boiler,  combine  cream  cheese, 
spinach  and  onion  mixture.  Add  drained  minced  clams.  May  be  made 
ahead  of  time,  refrigerated  and  then  microwaved  to  serving  temperature. 
Serve  warm. 

Great  hors  d'oenvre  -  ser\>e  in  chafing  dish  with  dip  size  Fritos. 

Elsie  Bamhardt 

Little  Crabbies 


Vi  cup  butter 

1  jar  Kraft  Old  English  cheese 

spread 
Va  teaspoon  garlic  powder 


%  teaspoon  seasoned  salt 

1  (6-oz)  can  crab  meat  (or  fresh), 

drained 
6  English  muffins,  split 


Mix  first  5  ingredients  and  spread  on  muffin  halves.  Cut  each  half  into  6 
triangles  and  place  on  a  baking  sheet.  Broil  for  4  to  6  minutes  until  golden 
and  bubbly.  Serve  hot.  May  be  frozen  on  baking  sheet  before  broiling. 
When  frozen,  place  in  bag  and  store  in  freezer. 

Castelloe  Denton  Dowling 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  33 


Crab  Puffs 


Yields  4  to  5  Dozen 


1  (6-oz)  can  crab  meat,  drained 

and  flaked 
Vi  cup  shredded  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese 
3  green  onions,  chopped 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 


1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  cup  water 

lA  cup  butter 

1  cup  self-rising  flour 

4  eggs 


sauce 


Combine  crab,  cheese,  onions,  dry  mustard  and  Worcestershire.  Stir  well 
and  set  aside.  Combine  water  and  butter  in  medium  saucepan.  Bring 
mixture  to  boil.  Reduce  heat  to  low.  Add  flour  and  stir  vigorously  until 
mixture  leaves  sides  of  pan  and  forms  a  smooth  ball.  Remove  from  heat 
and  allow  to  cool  slightly.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  with  a  wooden 
spoon  after  each  addition.  Beat  until  batter  is  smooth.  Add  crab  mixture. 
Stir  well.  Drop  batter  by  heaping  teaspoon  onto  ungreased  baking  sheet. 
Bake  at  400  degrees  for  15  minutes;  reduce  heat  to  350  degrees  and  bake 
another  10  minutes.  Serve  warm. 

To  freeze  before  baking:  Cover  baking  sheet  with  foil  and  place  unbaked 
puffs  in  freezer  until  hard.  Remove  puffs  from  baking  sheet  and  store  in 
airtight  container.  Remove  from  freezer  and  bake  unthawed  at  375  degrees 
for  35  minutes. 

To  freeze  after  baking:  Place  crab  puffs  in  airtight  container.  Freeze.  To 
serve,  remove  from  freezer  and  let  thaw  completely.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  8  to  10  minutes. 

Cherie  Higgins 


*      * 


*      * 


34  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Mock  Crab 
Meat 

1  (14-oz)  can  artichoke  hearts, 

drained  and  chopped 
3/4  cup  Hellman's  mayonnaise 

2  teaspoons  Good  Seasons 

packaged  Italian  dressing 
mix 
%  teaspoon  liquid  crab  boil 

Combine  all  ingredients. 
Chill  overnight.  Serve  with 
crackers. 

Betsy  Freeman 


Crab  Meat  Spread 


8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
2  tablespoons  milk 
2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Seafood  cocktail  sauce 


1  (7-oz)  can  crab  meat, 

or  fresh  equivalent 
Lemon  juice 
Fresh  parsley,  minced 


Blend  milk,  onion  and  Worcestershire  sauce  into  softened  cream  cheese  and 
spread  in  a  layer  in  a  shallow  serving  dish.  Spread  cocktail  sauce  over 
cream  cheese.  Wash  and  drain  crab  meat  and  spread  over  top  of  other 
layers.  Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  top  with  minced  parsley.  Serve  with 
crackers. 

Susan  Rankin 

Trawler  Crab  Dip 


2  cups  mayonnaise 

4  ounces  grated  American  cheese 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 


%  cup  French  dressing 
1  tablespoon  horseradish 
3  cups  crab  meat 


Mix  ingredients  together  in  order  listed.  Chill  until  firm.  Serve  with  club 
crackers. 

This  is  the  complimentary  dip  that  was  served  at  The  Trawler  restaurant  in 

Mt.  Pleasant,  SC  during  the  late  1960  's  and  early  1970  's.    We  served  it 

at  our  wedding  reception,  made  with  the  meat  of  crabs  we  caught  in  the 

marsh  across  from  my  parents '  home. 

Barbara  Atkins 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  35 


Salmon 
Spread 

1  (16-oz)  can  red  salmon, 
skin  off,  bones  out,  flaked 

8  ounces  cream  cheese, 
softened 

2  teaspoons  grated  onion 
1  teaspoon  horseradish 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  teaspoons  Liquid  Smoke, 

or  more  to  taste 
2  olives 

Pecans,  chopped 
Fresh  Parsley 

Mix  first  6  ingredients. 
Shape  into  fish  with  olives 
for  eyes  and  chopped  pecans 
on  top.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
Serve  with  crackers. 

Cornelia  Harbison 


Salmon  Mold 


1  can  red  salmon 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
16  ounces  cream  cheese 

1  teaspoon  paprika 


1  tablespoon  mayonnaise 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  small  onion,  grated 


Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature.  Remove  bones  from  salmon. 
Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  mixture  into  greased  mold.  Refrigerate 
overnight.  When  ready  to  serve,  unmold  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve 
with  crackers  or  bread. 


Pretty  for  cocktail  party  -  nice  do-ahead  dish. 


Rooney  Robison 


Boyd's  Smoked  Salmon 


Pre-sliced  smoked  salmon 

Capers 

Red  or  sweet  onions,  chopped 

Smoked  Salmon  Spread: 

8  ounces  reduced  fat  cream 
cheese 

Vi  cup  sour  cream 

!/j  cup  Boar  and  Castle  sauce 

lA  cup  minced  green  onion 


1  tablespoon  chopped  drained 

capers 
Juice  of  lA  lemon 
Vi  cup  minced  fresh  chives 
5  sprigs  fresh  dill,  chopped, 

or  dried  dill  to  taste 

2  teaspoons  cognac  or  brandy 

1  teaspoon  minced  garlic  (optional) 


To  make  spread,  blend  together  cream  cheese  and  sour  cream,  add 
remaining  spread  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve. 
Cut  salmon  into  small  squares  and  place  on  serving  platter.  Place  salmon 
spread,  capers,  and  chopped  onions  in  side  dishes.  Serve  with  wheat 
crackers  or  toasted  French  bread  rounds. 

Fair  Whitley 


36  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


/  will  never  forget  the  first  time 
Tyler  took  communion.  As  luck 
would  have  it,  Don  was  an  elder 
serving  that  day  and  I  was 
sitting  with  three  young,  restless 
children.  I  was  relieved  that 
there  were  no  accidents  among 
us  as  the  elements  were  served. 
Then  I  noticed  that  Tyler  was 
still  sticking  his  tongue  in  and 
out  of  the  juice— very  slowly. 
A  bit  annoyed,  I  told  him  to  quit 
playing  with  it,  finish  the  juice 
and  put  the  glass  in  the  holder. 
In  a  loud  and  clear  voice  that  I 
think  everyone  in  the  back  half 
of  the  sanctuary  heard,  he  said, 
"Mom,  you  cannot  expect  me  to 
drink  blood  fast! " 

Kathv  Gatelv 


Dilled  Artichoke  and  Shrimp  Dip 


Serves  Twenty-jive 


1  (9-oz)  package  frozen  artichoke 

hearts 
Vi  pound  fresh  shrimp,  cooked 

and  peeled 
Vt  cup  chopped  onion 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 
1  tablespoon  butter  or  margarine 


8  ounces  cream  cheese, 

cut  in  cubes 
2  tablespoons  milk 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
2  teaspoons  dried  dill  weed 


Cook  artichoke  hearts  according  to  package  directions.  Drain  well.  Chop 
artichokes  and  shrimp.  Combine  and  set  aside.  Cook  onion  and  garlic  in 
butter  in  a  large  saucepan  about  3  to  4  minutes  until  onion  is  tender.  Add 
cream  cheese  and  milk.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  until  smooth.  Stir  in 
lemon  juice,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  dill  weed.  Fold  in  chopped 
artichokes  and  shrimp.  Heat  thoroughly.  Serve  warm  with  assorted  breads 
or  crackers. 

Frances  Query 

Jean  Adams'  Pickled  Shrimp 


1  can  tomato  soup 
V*  cup  corn  oil 
Vt  cup  vinegar 

Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste 
Garlic  salt  to  taste 


1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Vi  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
Salt  to  taste 

Boiled  shrimp,  sliced  onions, 
sliced  lemons,  bav  leaves 


Heat  first  8  ingredients  to  blend.  Pour  over  boiled  shrimp  layered  with 
sliced  onions,  sliced  lemons  and  bay  leaves.  Refrigerate. 

We  start  all  family  gatherings  with  a  big  bowl  of  these  -  -fabulous! 

Kathy  Gatelv 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  3  7 


Fantastic  Shrimp  Mold 


1  envelope  Knox  gelatin 
2'/2  cups  shrimp, 

cooked  and  coarsely  chopped 
1 '/;  cups  mayonnaise 
Juice  of  2  lemons 


Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste 
Tabasco  sauce  to  taste 

1  large  onion,  grated 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  grated 
V*  cup  cold  water 


Stir  Knox  gelatin  in  water.  Let  sit.  Mix  together  shrimp,  mayonnaise, 
lemon  juice,  Worcestershire,  Tabasco,  onion  and  eggs.  Taste  to  correct 
seasonings.  Melt  gelatin  over  low  heat  or  low  power  on  microwave.  Do 
not  overheat  gelatin.  When  melted  it  should  feel  warm  to  the  touch.  Stir 
gelatin  into  shrimp  mixture  and  pour  into  mold  (a  fish  mold  looks  pretty). 
Refrigerate  until  set.  To  unmold,  dip  bottom  of  mold  into  warm  water  for 
10  seconds.  Gently  shake.  If  loose,  place  serving  tray  on  top  and  flip  it 
over.  Serve  with  Bremner  wafers  or  other  crackers. 


Kathy  Southerland 


Marinated  Shrimp 


3  pounds  large  shrimp,  cooked 

and  peeled 
3  medium  onions,  sliced  in  rings 
2  large  jars  B  &  B  whole 

mushrooms 
20  bay  leaves 


V/i  cups  vegetable  oil 
2  cups  vinegar 
4  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  pepper 

2  teaspoons  Tabasco  sauce 


In  large  bowl  with  tightly  fitting  lid,  layer  shrimp,  onion  rings,  mushrooms 
and  bay  leaves.  Repeat  layers  as  necessary.  Combine  remaining 
ingredients  and  pour  over  shrimp  mixture.  Chill  48  hours,  stirring 
occasionally. 

Lisa  Did  a 


38  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Kathy's  Shrimp  Dip 

8  ounces  cream  cheese  8  ounces  sour  cream 

1  packet  regular  Good  Seasons  10  ounces  pre-cooked  frozen  salad 

Italian  dressing  mix  shrimp,  thawed  and  drained 

Mix  cream  cheese,  dressing  mix,  and  sour  cream  with  mixer.  Fold  in 
drained  shrimp.  Serve  with  club  crackers.  This  recipe  doubles  easily  and  is 
great  made  with  boiled  fresh  shrimp. 

Barbara  Atkins 


Spicy  Texas  Shrimp 
With  Avocado  Sauce 

Serves  Eight 

1  pound  shrimp,  peeled 

and  deveined  Avocado  Sauce: 

Marinade:  2  small  avocados,  peeled  and 

Vi  cup  olive  oil  mashed 

lA  cup  grapefruit  juice  1  small  tomato,  chopped 

lA  cup  tequila  V*  cup  minced  onion 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced  %  cup  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  ground  cumin  2  tablespoons  chopped  fresh 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  cilantro 

Vt  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper  'A  teaspoon  salt 

or  Vi  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce  1  teaspoon  fresh  lemon  juice 

Peel  and  devein  1  pound  of  shrimp.  Combine  ingredients  for  marinade  in  a 
zip-loc  bag.  Add  shrimp  and  marinate  for  at  least  2  hours.  Combine 
ingredients  for  avocado  sauce  until  well  blended.  Refrigerate  sauce  until 
ready  to  serve.  Grill  or  broil  shrimp  4  inches  from  heat  source  for  4  to  5 
minutes,  turning  once  and  brushing  frequently  with  marinade. 

This  makes  a  wonderful  appetizer  -  your  guests  will  love  it. 

Julie  Richards 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  39 


Shrimp  Remoulade 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

3  teaspoons  prepared  tarragon 

(or  horseradish)  mustard 
1  tablespoon  of  each: 

gherkins,  capers,  parsley, 

chervil  and  tarragon  leaves, 

all  finch  chopped 
Vi  teaspoon  anchovy  paste  (optional) 
V*  cup  minced  green  onions  and  tops 


Va  cup  minced  celery 

1/4  teaspoons  paprika 

V*  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

Salt  to  taste 

Freshly  ground  pepper 

2  cups  shrimp,  cooked  and 

peeled 
Lettuce  or  toast  rounds 


Mix  the  mayonnaise  and  mustard  with  gherkins,  capers,  parsley,  chervil  and 
tarragon  leaves.  Beat  the  mixture  well  for  at  least  two  minutes  until  it  is 
thoroughly  blended,  and  add  anchovy  paste,  if  desired.  Add  salt  (be  careful 
not  to  oversalt  the  sauce),  freshly  ground  pepper,  onions,  celery,  paprika 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  this  sauce  with  the  shrimp  and  serve  on  a  bed  of 
crisp,  shredded  lettuce  -  -  or  serve  on  toast  rounds. 

When  we  moved  into  our  neighborhood,  Margaret  Gill  across  the  street 
invited  us  to  a  party  and  served  this  Shrimp  Remoulade.  I  asked  her  for 

the  recipe  and  prepared  it  first  in  our  new  house  for  a  sorority  wine 

tasting  on  a  cold,  rainy  night  when  guests  literally  had  to  walk  the  plank. 

Shrimp  Remoulade  sei~ved  on  toast  rounds  is  an  hors  d  'oeuvre 

that  usually  wins  praise. 

Rebecca  Schenck 


40  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Super  Good  and  Easy  Shrimp  Dip 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


3  pounds  raw  shrimp, 
cooked  and  chopped 
16  ounces  cream  cheese 

1  cup  sour  cream 
¥i  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  chopped  celery 


2  tablespoons  chopped  green 

pepper 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Tabasco  sauce  to  taste 
Juice  of  2  lemons 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  chill.  Serve  with  good  bread  or  crackers. 


Peggy  Young 


CEVICHE 

Sei-ves  Six 

1  pound  fresh  bay  or  sea  scallops,         1  avocado,  chopped 


or  boneless  white  fish  fillets, 

cut  into  small  pieces 
lA  cup  fresh  lime  juice 
2  jalapeno  peppers,  seeded  and 

chopped 
2  medium  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled 

and  chopped 


6  scallions,  chopped 

4  tablespoons  fresh  cilantro  leaves, 

chopped 
lA  cup  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  white  wine  vinegar 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


The  day  before  serving,  wash  seafood,  place  in  bowl  and  cover  with  lime 
juice.  Tightly  cover  container  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Next  day,  remove 
seafood  with  slotted  spoon  and  set  aside.  Stir  avocado  in  lime  juice; 
remove  and  add  to  seafood.  Reserve  1  or  2  tablespoons  lime  juice.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  to  seafood/avocado  mixture.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  reserved  lime  juice,  if  needed.  Cover  and  chill  until  serving 
time.  Serve  with  tortilla  chips.  May  also  be  served  as  a  salad. 

Use  only  fresh  seafood.   The  acidity  in  the  lime  juice 
"cooks  "  the  fish  overnight. 

Bunny  Church 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  41 


Salted  Bits 


1  box  oyster  crackers 

'A  cup  and  2  tablespoons  oil 

1  teaspoon  garlic  powder 


1/4  teaspoons  dill  weed 
1  package  Hidden  Valley 
ranch  dressing 


Mix  together  oil,  garlic  powder,  dill  weed  and  dressing.  Pour  over  crackers 
and  mix  carefully.  May  use  3A  package  of  dressing  mix,  if  desired. 


Wilma  Wisecarver 


Scratch 


4  cups  pecans 
3  cups  Wheat  Chex 
3  cups  Rice  Chex 
1/4  cups  Cheerios 
3  cups  stick  pretzels 


Vt  cup  butter 

3  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  rounded  teaspoon  garlic  salt 
1  teaspoon  Lawry's  seasoned  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 


Bake  nuts  for  one  hour  at  250  degrees.  Add  cereals  and  pretzels  and  cook 
15  minutes  more.  Melt  butter  and  add  seasonings.  Drizzle  part  of  butter 
mixture  over  cereal  and  nuts.  Stir,  being  sure  to  turn  completely  to  coat 
everything  well.  Reserve  some  butter  mixture  to  add  later.  Bake  15 
minutes.  Add  more  seasoning  mixture  and  stir  well.  Bake  for  15  to  20 
minutes  more.    Stir,  add  remaining  seasoning  mixture,  and  bake  for  15  to 
20  minutes.  Stir  and  continue  baking  until  total  cooking  time  is  1  lA  to  2 
hours,  not  including  time  spent  cooking  pecans.  Do  not  substitute  for  butter 
or  pecans. 

Millie  Brooks 


42  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Spiced  Nuts 

2  cups  confectioners  sugar  Vi  teaspoon  ginger 

Wi  cups  cornstarch  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  egg  whites,  unbeaten 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon  1  pound  shelled  walnuts 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Mix  first  7  ingredients  in  large  bowl.  In  another  large  bowl,  place  unbeaten 
egg  whites;  add  walnuts,  mixing  well.  Transfer  to  confectioners  sugar 
mixture  and  mix  well.  Place  nuts  in  large  oblong  baking  pan  and  bake  in 
slow  (250-degree)  oven  about  one  hour  until  a  crust  forms  on  nuts.  Stir  and 
turn  the  nuts  3  or  4  times  during  baking. 

A  delicious  addition  to  a  special  reception  table. 

Dorrie  Fretwell 

Monster  Munch 

Yields  7  Cups 

2  cups  Spider  Webs  (Crispix  cereal) 

1  cup  Bats'  Teeth  (chocolate  chips) 

1  cup  Witches'  Eyes  (raisins) 

1  cup  Monster  Toes  (dry-roasted  peanuts) 

1  cup  Ghost  Toes  (marshmallows) 

1  cup  Witches'  Hair  (thin  pretzel  sticks) 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  Mix,  munch  and  enjoy!  Store  in 
airtight  container. 

A  fun  Halloween  snack  for  kids  of  all  ages.  Easy  for  children 
to  make  and  fun  for  them  to  eat. 

Mary  Catherine  Chesney 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  43 


Annie  Collins 
Punch 

1  large  package  lemon 

Kool-Aid 
1  small  can  frozen  limeade 
1  large  can  frozen  lemonade 
1  large  can  pineapple  juice 
3  quarts  Sprite 
12  cups  water 
1  ice  ring  made  in  ring 

mold  with  sliced  lemons 

and  limes 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  large 
punch  bowl.  Chill  with  ice 
ring  and  serve. 

Beck\>  Johnson 


Easy  Spiced  Drink 

Yields  18  Cups 


2  quarts  apple  juice 

1  Vi  quarts  cranberry  juice 

3  cinnamon  sticks 


2  teaspoons  whole  cloves 
Vi  cup  brown  sugar 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  large  saucepan.  Bring  to  boil.  Turn  heat  down  and 
simmer  15  to  20  minutes.  Strain  off  spices.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


This  is  nice  to  serve  instead  of  coffee  with  sandwiches 
or  other  finger  foods. 


Ann  Wilson 


Party  Punch 


Yields  I  Gallon 


1  (46-oz)  can  unsweetened 

pineapple  juice 
1  small  box  Jello  -  cherry  or 

flavor  of  your  choice 
1  cup  sugar 


Water 

Vi  cup  ReaLemon  juice 
Equal,  if  additional  sweetness  is 
desired 


Pour  pineapple  juice  into  1 -gallon  plastic  jar  (or  other  1 -gallon  freezer-safe 
container).  In  a  small  saucepan,  combine  Jello,  sugar  and  enough  water  to 
dissolve  the  gelatin.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  the  Jello  mixture  into  pineapple 
juice.  Add  lemon  juice  and  fill  the  jar  with  water.  Add  Equal  to  desired 
sweetness,  if  necessary.  Cap  the  jar  and  freeze  for  6  to  8  hours,  or  until 
slushy. 

This  punch  is  a  favorite  with  both  children  and  adults  at  all 

of  our  family  birthday  parlies.   You  may  need  at  least 

two  gallons  for  a  child's  birthday  part}: 

Louise  "Beezv" Somerville 


44  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Mint  Tea 

Yields  4  Quarts 

16  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  lemon  juice 

6  to  8  sprigs  fresh  mint 

3  family-size  tea  bags 

Put  8  cups  water,  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  mint  in  a  pot. 
Bring  to  boil,  add  tea  bags 
and  turn  off  heat.  Let  steep  at 
least  20  minutes.  Remove 
mint  leaves  and  add  8  more 
cups  water.  Chill  and  serve 
over  ice. 

Fay  GrasH' 


Raspberry  Punch 

Yields  I 'A  Gallons 


2  (12-oz)  cans  frozen  pink 

lemonade  concentrate 
Vi  gallon  raspberry  sherbet 


2  (2-liter)  bottles  ginger  ale  or 
raspberry  ginger  ale,  chilled 


Combine  frozen  lemonade  and  sherbet  in  large  punchbowl.  Stir  in  ginger 
ale.  Break  up  sherbet.  Serve  immediately. 

A  delicious  punch  for  a  ladies  'party. 

Margaret  Akers  Hardage 

Almond  Tea 


Yields  2'A  Quarts 


4  regular  or  2  family-size  teabags 
2  cups  boiling  water 
'A  cup  lemon  juice  (ReaLemon 
from  freezer  section  works  well) 


1/4  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

2  quarts  water 


Place  teabags  in  pitcher.  Pour  2  cups  boiling  water  over  teabags,  cover  and 
steep  for  5  minutes.  Remove  teabags.  Add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  extract. 
Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  2  quarts  water  to  tea  mixture  and  stir  well. 
Chill  before  serving. 

Elizabeth  Pitts 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  45 


Russian  Tea 
Mix 

2  cups  Tang  instant  drink  mix 
1  cup  sugar  (or  4  teaspoons 

Sweet  'n  Low) 
%  cup  instant  tea  with  lemon 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Vi  teaspoon  cloves 
1  ■•'2  teaspoon  allspice 

Combine  all  ingredients. 
Mix  well.  Seal  in  a  tight  jar. 
Use  2  to  3  teaspoons  per  cup 
of  hot  water. 

Great  served  with  Moravian 
ginger  cookies. 

Margaret  Akers  Hardage 


Big  Lil's  Tea 


Yields  3A  to  1  Gallon 


2  handfuls  fresh  mint  leaves 

IVi  to  2  heaping  tablespoons  Tang 

Water 


%  cup  lemon-flavored  diet  Lipton 
instant  tea  (blue  top) 


Crush  mint  leaves  with  wooden  spoon  in  bottom  of  gallon-size  pitcher. 
Add  tea,  Tang  and  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve.  Fill  pitcher  with  water. 
Stir  until  well  mixed.  You  may  add  less  water,  depending  upon  taste. 
Serve  cold. 


You  '11  never  believe  this  was  made  with  instant  tea. 

Mom's  Special  Iced  Tea 

Yields  1  Gallon 


Pam  Stowe 


8  cups  water 

8  regular  tea  bags 

IV2  to  2  cups  sugar 


1  (6-oz)  can  frozen  orange  juice 

2  (6-oz)  cans  pineapple  juice 


Boil  water.  Remove  pot  from  heat  and  steep  tea  bags  in  hot  water  for  5 
minutes.  Remove  bags  and  add  sugar.  Stir  until  all  sugar  dissolves.  Pour 
tea  mixture  into  1 -gallon  pitcher  and  add  ice  cubes  to  cool.  When  cool,  add 
thawed  orange  juice,  pineapple  juice  and  enough  water  to  make  1  gallon. 


Delicious! 


Blair  Rohrer 


46  Appetizers  and  Beverages 


Wassail 

lA  to  Vi  can  frozen  orange 

juice  (undiluted) 
lA  to  Vi  cup  mixed  brown 

and  white  sugar 
1  large  jar  apple  juice 
Cloves 
5  cinnamon  sticks 

Bring  to  a  boil  and  simmer  30 
minutes. 

/  make  this  every  year  for  my 

annual  Christmas  tea  and 

thought  I  would  share  it  -  it's 

perfect  for  warming  up  at 

holiday  gatherings! 

You  may  serve  it  with  rum  if 

you  are  in  the  mood  to  be 

extra  festive! 

Joanna  Ashworth 


Sweet  Mint  Tea 

Yields  2'A  Quarts 


3A  to  1  cup  sugar 
V/i  cups  boiling  water 
8  tea  bags 
8  cups  water 


4  springs  fresh  mint 

VA  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Mint  sprigs  for  garnish 


Put  sugar  in  large  pitcher.  Pour  boiling  water  over  sugar  and  stir  to 
dissolve.  Add  tea  bags  and  sprigs  of  mint.  Cover  and  let  stand  for  30 
minutes.  Remove  tea  bags  and  mint  and  discard.  Add  lemon  juice.  Fill  the 
pitcher  with  water  (about  8  cups).  Stir  and  serve  over  ice.  Can  garnish  with 
sprigs  of  fresh  mint  when  serving. 


Tea  will  not  "cloud' 
refrigerating. 


if  kept  at  room  temperature  for  a  few  hours  before 


Bev  MacBain 


Russian  Tea  Mix 


VA  cups  instant  tea  mix 

2  cups  Tang  instant  drink  mix 

1%  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 


2V4  teaspoons  cinnamon 
2  packages  Kool-Aid  lemonade 
1  teaspoon  dried  orange  rind 
1  teaspoon  dried  lemon  rind 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Store  in  airtight  container.  To  serve,  mix  2 
teaspoons  mix  with  1  cup  hot  water. 

This  is  an  adaptation  of  Kizzie  Bangle's  recipe.  She  was  a  charter  member 

ofMPPC  and  my  grandmother.   We  serve  this  tea  every  Sunday 

in  the  Fellowship  Class.   Come  join  us  and  try  some! 

Muffin  Campbell 


Appetizers  and  Beverages  47 


lVly  first  memory  ofMPPC  is  of  going  to  Sunday  school  and  church  at 
Queens  College  when  I  was  a  child  of  8  or  9.  I  remember  being  in  a 
Sunday  school  class  in  the  library,  and  then  we  went  to  the  auditorium  for 
church.  Dr.  Frazier,  President  of  Queens,  frequently  preached.  We  enjoyed 
going  by  the  new  property  on  Oxford  Place  on  the  way  home  from  church 
each  Sunday  and  watching  the  church  being  built.  We  all  liked  our  first 
minister,  Dr.  Edgar  Gammon,  his  wife  and  two  older  children,  Graham 
and  Elizabeth.  I  went  with  my  father  to  the  Wednesday  night  prayer 
meeting  attended  by  perhaps  40  or  50  people  in  the  men  s  log  cabin. 

John  Ranson 
I  remember  the  three  huts,  two  log  structures  and  one  paneled,  located  in 
a  row  between  MPPC  and  the  Methodist  Church.  They  were  referred  to  as 
the  Men  s  Hut,  the  Boy  Scout  Hut,  and  the  Queens  Hut.  They  were  heated 
separately  from  the  main  plant,  mainly  by  fireplace.  And  between  MPPC 
and  MPMC  on  Providence  Road  there  were  three  residences:  MPPC 's 
manse.  Dr.  Orin  Moore's  and  Wilbert  Wood's. 

R.  Query  Ranson 


r. 


Breads  and  Breakfast 


Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church  under  construction  in  1928 


Banana  Icing 


1  banana 

1  box  confectioners  sugar 
3  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 

Put  whole  banana  in  mixer 
bowl.  Add  sugar  and  mix 
until  blended.  Add  lemon 
juice.  Add  nuts.  Spread 
icing  on  cake  and  refrigerate. 

/  use  this  icing  on  banana  nut 
bread  or  cake.  Often  I  make 
2  loaves  and  freeze  before 
icing  to  have  on  hand  for 
breakfast  for  weekend  guests 
or  to  give  as  gifts  at  holidays. 

Erwin  Williams 


'*•  Bananas  freeze  well  in 
their  skins.  This  is  a 
great  way  to  save  ripe 
bananas  until  you  are 
ready  to  make  bread.  It 
also  makes  the  bananas 
more  flavorful  for  breads. 

Tar  a  Myers 


Almond  Bread 


2'/2  cups  sugar 

VA  cups  oil 

3  eggs 

VA  teaspoons  almond  flavoring 

VA  teaspoons  butter  flavoring 

VA  teaspoons  salt 


VA  teaspoons  baking  powder 

VA  cups  milk 

VA  teaspoons  vanilla 

3  cups  flour 

VA  teaspoons  poppy  seeds 


Cream  sugar,  oil,  eggs,  flavorings,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  with 
milk.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  greased  loaf 
pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  50  minutes.  Makes  2  large  or  4  small  loaves. 

Melinda  Finch  Adkins 

Banana  Chocolate  Chip  Bread 


'/>  cup  Canola  oil 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

3  very  ripe  bananas,  preferably 
previously  frozen 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 
2  cups  sifted  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
'A  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
3  tablespoons  milk 
Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 
6  ounces  chocolate  chips 


Mash  bananas  and  set  aside.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients  and  set  aside.  In 
large  mixing  bowl,  mix  oil  with  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  mashed  bananas.  Stir 
in  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  and  vanilla.  Beat  well  and  add  nuts  and 
chocolate  chips.  Spray  1  large  loaf  pan  (or  2  small  pans)  with  cooking  oil. 
Pour  batter  in  until  half  full.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Finish 
baking  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes,  depending  on  size  of  pans  used. 
Center  of  bread  should  be  springy  to  touch.  Cool  bread  5  minutes  in  pan. 
Turn  bread  onto  rack  for  cooling. 

Tar  a  Mxers 


50  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Tom  Belk's 
Aunt  Eloise's 
Banana  Bread 

Yields  1  Loaf 

'A  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1  cup  creamed  bananas 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

%  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar, 
beaten  eggs  and  bananas. 
Mix  together  sifted  flour, 
soda,  salt  and  nuts.  Add  to 
banana  mixture.  Pour  into 
greased  loaf  pan  and  bake  at 
350  degrees  for  50  to  60 
minutes. 

Kat  Belk 


Banana  Nut  Bread  or  Cake 


%  cup  butter 

1  'A  cups  sugar 

VA  cups  bananas  (about  4) 

2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
'A  cup  milk 


1  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Va  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  chopped  black  walnuts 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  bananas,  eggs  and  vanilla.  Sour  milk  by 
adding  vinegar.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  sour  milk. 
Add  nuts.  Bake  in  greased  loaf  or  tube  pan  at  325  degrees  for  1  Vi  hours. 

This  recipe  has  been  served  at  White  House  teas.  My  grandmother 
copied  it  from  the  Baltimore  Sun  newspaper. 

Nancy  Blaine 

Banana  Nut  Bread 

Yields  1  Loaf 


2  scant  cups  sifted  flour 
'A  teaspoon  baking  powder 
IVi  teaspoons  vanilla 
1  cup  pecans,  finely  chopped 


lA  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

3  medium-size  overripe  bananas 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  In  separate  bowl,  mash 
bananas  through  sieve  and  mix  with  baking  soda.  Set  aside.  Sift  flour 
before  measuring.  Sift  again  with  baking  powder.  Add  flour  mixture  to 
butter  mixture.  Add  vanilla.  Add  chopped  pecans.  Lastly  add  banana  and 
baking  soda  mixture.  Grease  and  line  loaf  pan  with  wax  paper.  Pour  bread 
mixture  into  prepared  pan  and  bake  at  325  to  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  Check 
after  45  minutes  and  test  with  toothpick. 


This  is  a  wonderful  bread  for  luncheons. 


Mary  May  Gillespie 


Breads  and  Breakfast  5 1 


To  sour  milk,  add  2 
tablespoons  vinegar  to 
1  cup  milk. 


This  bread  has  always  been  well 
received  when  I  have  taken  it  to 
a  Sunday  School  class.  I  was 
flattered  when  Clarence 
Gallagher  raved  about  it  one 
morning  and  Lib  followed  up 
the  next  week  asking  for  the 
recipe.  It  was  the  first  treat  I 
had  brought  to  MPPC  and  their 
enthusiasm  meant  a  lot  to  me. 

Kay  Et bridge 


Irish  Soda  Bread 

Yields  1  Loaf 


3  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter 


1  tablespoon  lard 

1  tablespoon  caraway  seed  (optional) 

Vi  cup  seedless  raisins  (optional) 

1  to  114  cups  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  butter 


Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda,  cream  of  tartar,  salt  and  sugar.  Cut  in 
butter  and  lard  and  mix  with  fingers  until  shortening  is  used  up.  Add 
caraway  seeds  and  raisins,  if  desired.  Mix  until  raisins  are  well  coated  with 
flour.  Stir  in  buttermilk  or  sour  milk.  Make  a  soft,  biscuit-like  dough. 
Turn  out  onto  floured  board  and  knead  only  enough  to  hold  together  in  a 
round  mass.  Melt  butter  and  pour  over  sides  and  bottom  of  loaf  pan.  Fill 
with  rounded  douah  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 


Ellie  Crowe 


Lemon  Bread 


1  cup  sugar 

6  tablespoons  margarine 

2  eggs 

Vi  cup  milk 

l'/scups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


Pinch  salt 

Vi  cup  chopped  walnuts 

1  lemon  rind,  grated 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

Vi  cup  sugar 


In  a  large  bowl,  cream  sugar  and  margarine.  Beat  eggs  and  add  with  milk  to 
sugar  and  margarine.  Set  aside.  In  another  bowl,  sift  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  together.  Add  dry  ingredients  to  sugar  mixture  a  little  at  a  time, 
beating  in  between  each  addition.  Stir  in  lemon  rind  and  nuts.  Pour  into 
greased  and  floured  loaf  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  50  to  55  minutes. 
Mix  together  lemon  juice  and  sugar  and  spoon  over  warm  loaf.  Let  cool. 

Kay  Eth  ridge 


52  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Wlien  Margaret  Peeiy  was  our 
associate  pastor,  she  asked 
several  of  us  to  bake  loaves  of 
bread  to  be  used  at  the 
Women  's  Christmas 
Communion  Sen'ice.  Imagine 
Maggie 's  surprise  when  one  of 
the  loaves  was  pumpkin  bread! 

Bev  MacBain 


Pumpkin  Bread 


1  cup  oil 

3  cups  sugar 

1  (15-oz)  can  pumpkin 

3  eggs 


1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
3  cups  self-rising  flour 


Combine  sugar  and  oil.  Mix  well.  Add  pumpkin  and  eggs.  In  a  separate 
bowl,  mix  flour  and  spices.  Add  to  pumpkin  mixture.  Pour  into  greased 
loaf  pans  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  approximately  1  hour  and  15  minutes. 
If  using  dark  loaf  pans,  bake  at  325  degrees.  Makes  2  large  loaves,  3 
medium  loaves  or  5  mini  loaves. 

Great  with  hot  tea  or  hot  cider  and  cinnamon  in  the  afternoon  or  warmed 
with  a  scoop  of  ice  cream  and  caramel  sauce  on  top  for  dessert. 

Dana  Marshall 

Pumpkin  Cranberry  Bread 

Yields  2  Loaves 


2'/i  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  pumpkin  pie  spice 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
54  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs 


2  cups  sugar 

1  (15-oz)  can  pumpkin 

54  cup  vegetable  oil 

1  cup  fresh  cranberries 

54  to  %  cup  chopped  pecans 


Combine  dry  ingredients  in  large  bowl.  Combine  eggs,  sugar,  pumpkin  and 
oil  in  small  mixer  bowl.  Beat  until  blended.  Add  pumpkin  mixture  to  flour 
mixture.  Stir  until  moistened.  Fold  in  cranberries  and  nuts.  Spoon  batter 
into  2  greased  and  floured  8I/2x4'/2-inch  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
55  to  60  minutes  or  until  wooden  pick  comes  out  clean.  Cool  in  pans  10 
minutes.  Remove  to  wire  racks  to  cool  completely. 


A  festive  breakfast  bread  for  the  holidays. 


Pat  Blount 


Breads  and  Breakfast  53 


Blueberry  Buckle  has  been  a 
favorite  at  the  choir  breakfasts 
that  are  held  between  services 
when  the  Sanctuary  and 
Chancel  Choirs  join  to  sing  two 
services.   This  occurs  several 
times  a  year,  most  notably  at  the 
Christmas  music  service  and  at 
Easter.   Our  breakfasts  are 
lavish  with  plenty  of  really  good 
food.    Visiting  musicians  such 
as  orchestra  or  brass  players 
and  soloists  are  always  invited. 
Many  of  the  "regulars  "  look 
forward  to  playing  at  our 
church  because  of  the  wonderful 
breakfast  they  enjoy  between 
performances. 

Beryl  lerardi 


Strawberry  Nut  Bread 


Yields  2  Loaves 


4  eggs 

1  cup  oil 

2  cups  sugar 

2  (10-oz)  packages  frozen  sliced 
strawberries,  thawed 


3  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1%  cups  nuts,  chopped 


Beat  eggs  until  fluffy.  Add  oil,  sugar  and  strawberries  and  blend.  In  a 
separate  large  bowl,  sift  together  flour,  cinnamon,  soda  and  salt.  Add 
strawberry  mixture  and  mix  until  well  blended.  Stir  in  nuts.  Pour  into  two 
greased  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour  and  10  minutes  or  until 
done.  Cover  loosely  with  foil  if  bread  begins  to  brown  too  much.  Cool 
bread  in  pans  for  10  minutes,  then  turn  out  of  pans  and  cool  on  racks. 

Delicious  chilled.   Or  sen'e  warm  with  butter  or  cream  cheese. 


Stacey  Chapman 


Blueberry  Buckle 


2  cups  flour 

Vt  cup  sugar 

2'/2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

V*  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  shortening 

Vt  cup  milk 

legg 

2  cups  blueberries,  well-drained 


Topping: 
'/i  cup  sugar 
Vi  cup  flour 
Vi  teaspoon  cinnamon 
%  cup  soft  margarine 


Mix  together  first  7  ingredients.  Stir  in  blueberries.  Pour  batter  into 
greased  9-inch  square  pan.  Mix  topping  ingredients  together,  cutting  in 
margarine  until  crumbly.  Spread  over  top  of  batter.  Bake  at  375  degrees 
for  45  to  50  minutes. 

Beryl  lerardi 


54  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Caramel  Pecan  Sour  Cream 
Coffee  Cake 

Batter:  Filling: 
1  Vi  cups  sugar  1  !/2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  butter,  softened  V3  cup  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  cup  pecans,  finely  chopped 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Caramel  Topping: 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour  lA  cup  butter 

Vz  teaspoon  baking  soda  6  tablespoons  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  3A  cup  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  cup  pecans,  finely  chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  in  large  bowl.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Combine 
flour,  baking  soda  and  baking  powder  in  separate  bowl.  Alternately  add 
flour  mixture  and  sour  cream  to  batter  mixture.  Beat  until  fluffy.  Combine 
cinnamon,  brown  sugar  and  pecans  in  small  bowl.  Grease  and  flour  9x  13- 
inch  baking  dish.  Pour  half  the  batter  into  pan  and  spread  evenly.  Sprinkle 
half  the  filling  over  batter.  Pour  and  spread  remaining  batter  and  sprinkle 
with  remaining  filling.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes. 

While  cake  is  baking,  prepare  topping.  Melt  butter  in  medium  saucepan 
over  moderate  heat.  Add  milk,  brown  sugar  and  pecans  and  stir  3  to  4 
minutes.  When  cake  is  done,  remove  from  oven  and  pour  caramel  topping 
over  top,  spreading  evenly.  Broil  cake,  watching  carefully,  until  caramel 
topping  begins  to  bubble,  about  3  minutes.  Let  cake  cool  completely  before 
serving. 

Isabel  Owen 


Breads  and  Breakfast  55 


Cheese  Braid  Bread 

Yields  4  Wreaths 


1  cup  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  butter 

2  packages  dry  yeast 
Vi  cup  warm  water 
'A  teaspoon  sugar 

2  eggs,  beaten 

4  cups  unsifted  flour 


Filling: 

16  ounces  cream  cheese 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Vt  cup  sugar 

Vs  teaspoon  salt 
Glaze: 

2  cups  confectioners  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

4  tablespoons  milk 


Scald  sour  cream  and  add  salt  and  sugar.  Add  unmelted  butter.  In  medium 
bowl,  sprinkle  yeast  over  warm  water  and  add  Vz  teaspoon  sugar  to  proof. 
Combine  proofed  yeast  with  warm  sour  cream  mixture.  Add  eggs.  Add 
flour,  mixing  well.  Cover  and  refrigerate  overnight. 

Divide  dough  into  four  balls.  Roll  each  ball  of  dough  into  8x1 2-inch 
rectangle.  Mix  together  filling  ingredients.  Spread  Vi  of  filling  generously 
over  each  dough  rectangle.  Roll  like  jellyroll.  Bring  ends  together  to  form 
a  wreath  and  seal  seam,  using  a  little  water  if  necessary.  Place  with  seam 
side  down  on  greased  aluminum  foil  on  baking  sheet.  With  kitchen  shears, 
cut  V*  of  way  through  to  look  like  braid.  Let  rise  until  dough  doubles  in 
size.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  12  to  15  minutes.  Mix  together  ingredients 
for  glaze  and  drizzle  over  hot  braid.  Also  good  with  cinnamon,  pecan  and 
butter  filling.  Can  be  frozen. 

This  recipe  was  ser\>ed  at  the  Women  of  the  Church 
Christinas  Communion  in  the  198Q's. 


Louise  Smith 


56  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Honey  Almond  Coffee  Cake 

Vi  cup  Ricotta  cheese  Topping: 

4  tablespoons  milk  5  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  vegetable  oil  lA  cup  sugar 

14  cup  sugar  V3  cup  honey 

Dash  of  salt  1  cup  sliced  almonds 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V/i  cups  flour 

Grease  sides  and  bottom  of  9-inch  springform  pan.  Set  aside.  Combine 
cheese,  milk,  oil,  sugar  and  salt.  Sift  baking  powder  with  flour  and  add  to 
cheese  mixture.  Stir  well  and  gently  knead  for  about  5  minutes  to  form  a 
smooth  ball.  Set  aside  for  10  minutes  while  you  prepare  the  topping.  For 
topping,  melt  butter  in  a  heavy  saucepan.  Add  sugar  and  honey  and  stir 
constantly  over  medium  heat  until  mixture  is  thick  and  coats  a  wooden 
spoon.  Add  almonds.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  vanilla.  Place  dough  in 
prepared  springform  pan  and  press  to  fill  bottom  of  pan.  Spread  topping 
over  evenly.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes,  being  careful  to  not  over- 
brown  the  topping.  Cool  5  minutes,  then  remove  sides  of  pan.  Serve  warm. 

This  recipe  is  from  the  hosts  of  Angler's  Landing,  a  beloved 
bed  and  breakfast  in  Sitka,  Alaska.  It's  totally  yummy! 

Betsy  and  John  Johnson 


Breads  and  Breakfast  57 


Sock  It  To  Me 
Coffee  Cake 

Batter: 

1  box  yellow  cake  mix 

1  cup  sour  cream 

Vz  cup  sugar 

%  cup  oil 

4  eggs 
Filling: 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Mix  batter  ingredients.  Beat 
2  minutes  with  electric  mixer. 
Combine  filling  ingredients. 
Place  half  of  batter  in  greased 
and  floured  tube  pan.  Place 
3/4  of  filling  ingredients  on  top 
of  batter  in  pan.  Top  with 
remaining  batter.  Sprinkle 
remaining  filling  on  top  of 
cake.  Bake  at  325  degrees 
for  55  minutes.  Let  stand  for 
at  least  1 5  minutes  before 
removing  from  pan. 

Great  while  still  warm. 

Ginger  Downing 


Raspberry  Cream  Cheese 
Coffee  Cake 


Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 


2%  cups  all-purpose  flour 

1  cup  sugar,  divided 
Vi  cup  butter,  softened 
%  cup  sour  cream 

2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract 


54  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 
54  cup  raspberry  preserves 
54  cup  sliced  almonds 


Grease  and  flour  bottom  and  sides  of  10-inch  springform  pan.  In  large 
bowl,  combine  flour  and  3A  cup  sugar.  Cut  in  butter  until  mixture  resembles 
coarse  crumbs.  Reserve  1  cup  for  topping.  Combine  remaining  crumb 
mixture  with  sour  cream,  1  egg,  almond  extract,  baking  soda,  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Spread  dough  over  bottom  and  2  inches  up  the  sides  of 
pan.  Beat  cream  cheese,  lA  cup  sugar  and  1  egg  until  blended.  Spread  over 
dough.  Spoon  preserves  evenly  over  cheese  filling.  Combine  the  reserved 
crumb  mixture  and  almonds,  and  sprinkle  over  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
45  to  55  minutes,  until  cheese  filling  is  set  and  crust  is  golden  brown.  Cool 
15  minutes  and  remove  sides  of  pan. 

Our  family  loves  coffee  cake  for  breakfast  on  weekends, 
and  this  is  one  of  our  favorites. 

Kathy  Gately 


58   Breads  and  Breakfast 


Almost  fifteen  years  ago  a  good 
friend  and  Presbyterian  shared 
one  of  her  mother 's  Christmas 
traditions  with  me  in  the  form  of 
this  Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake. 
Since  then,  I  also  bake  them  at 
Christmas  to  share  with  family 
and  friends,  saving  one  to  serve 
our  family  on  Christmas 
morning. 

Vicki  Smith 


This  is  a  favorite  of  all  the 
Taylors  and  was  sen'ed  at  lots 
of  Circle  meetings  at  our  house. 
I  also  served  it  many  times  at 
the  Friday  morning  breakfast 
Bible  Study  at  our  house.  It  is 
our  traditional  Christmas 
morning  breakfast. 

Arline  Tavlor 


Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake 


1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

1  cup  sour  cream 
Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  sifted  Swan's  Down  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
VA  teaspoons  salt 
Topping: 
%  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 


Cream  butter,  sugar  and  eggs.  Fold  in  sour  cream  and  add  vanilla.  Fold  in 
dry  ingredients  that  have  been  sifted  together.  Mix  topping  ingredients 
together  in  another  bowl.  Spoon  Vi  batter  into  a  greased  bundt  pan. 
Sprinkle  with  Vi  topping.  Spoon  the  remaining  batter  on  top  and  sprinkle 
with  remaining  topping.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  You  may  also  use 
2  disposable,  foil  pans;  decrease  baking  time  to  45  minutes.  Recipe  is  easy 
to  double  or  triple.  Freezes  well. 

Vicki  Smith 

Taylor  Coffee  Cake 


1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  nuts  (optional) 


2Vi  cups  flour 

%  cup  sugar 

%  cup  brown  sugar 

%  cup  oil 

legg 

1  cup  buttermilk 

Mix  first  four  ingredients  together  with  a  fork.  Take  1  cup  of  mixture  out 
and  set  aside  in  small  bowl.  Add  to  rest  of  mixture  the  egg,  buttermilk, 
baking  soda,  baking  powder  and  vanilla  and  beat  together  for  2  minutes.  To 
the  one  cup  of  mixture  set  aside,  add  cinnamon  and  nuts.  Spread  mixture  in 
greased  9x13  baking  dish  and  top  with  crumb  mixture.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  35  to  40  minutes.  This  freezes  well  and  is  best  served  warm. 

Arline  Taylor 


Breads  and  Breakfast  59 


Sweet  Rolls 


Vi  cup  water 

2  packages  active  dry  yeast 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

I !  .•  cups  scalded  milk 
Vi  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  salt 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
Vi  cup  shortening 
7  cups  flour,  sifted 


Filling: 

Butter  to  brush  dough,  melted 

V/i  cups  dark  brown  sugar, 
firmly  packed 

6  teaspoons  cinnamon,  divided 
Icing: 

Confectioners  sugar 

Milk 


Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  water.  Scald  milk.  Add  shortening  to  milk  and 
let  cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  eggs  to  milk  and  shortening.  Stir 
in  yeast  mixture.  Add  flour  and  blend  well.  Put  dough  in  greased  bowl  and 
allow  to  rise  until  double  in  size. 

Divide  dough  into  three  equal  parts.  Roll  each  part  out  to  12x16  inches. 
Brush  each  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  'A  cup  packed  dark  brown 
sugar  and  2  teaspoons  cinnamon.  Then  roll  each  like  a  jelly  roll  and  cut 
into  2-inch  sections. 

Put  on  greased  pan  or  use  parchment  paper.  Let  rolls  rise  about  1  hour. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  about  30  to  35  minutes  or  until  rolls  are  done.  Make 
thin  icing  by  stirring  milk  into  confectioners  sugar.  Remove  rolls  from 
oven  and  drizzle  with  icing. 

Maria  Gaal 
Debrecen,  Hungary 


Maria  Gaal  and  her  husband  Bolund  are  members  of  the  Great  Church  in 

Debrecen,  Hungary.  Maria  is  a  pediatric  dentist  and  heads  a  dental  clinic 

in  Debrecen.   They  both  visited  MPPC  several  years  ago  when  Botund,  a 

retired  president  of  the  Reformed  Seminary,  was  teaching  at  Princeton. 

Maria  returned  with  the  twinning  group  in  March  2001.  Maria  entertained 

the  MPPC  youth  delegation  for  breakfast  eveiy  morning  during 

the  July  2001  youth  visit  to  Debrecen. 


60   Breads  and  Breakfast 


Mrs.  Ragan's 
Gaston  County  Stickies 

2  cups  flour  2  rounded  teaspoons  Crisco 

Vi  cup  buttermilk  1  cup  butter  or  margarine 

'A  teaspoon  baking  soda  Sugar 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Mix  the  first  5  ingredients  to  form  dough.  Divide  dough  into  3  sections. 
Roll  each  section  thin  and  cut  into  four  4  to  4'/2-inch  squares.  Divide  butter 
into  twelve  pieces.  Place  1  piece  of  butter  on  each  square,  or  stickie, 
crosswise.  Add  three  rounded  teaspoons  sugar  to  each  stickie.  Fold  dough 
over  from  sides  to  middle  and  pinch  edges  together.  Place  12  stickies  in 
greased  1 1  V2X.lV2xlV2-m.ch  pan.  Press  down  on  top  of  each  stickie  until  they 
are  close  together  and  none  of  the  pan  shows.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  30 
minutes.  Remove  from  pan  while  hot.  Cool  on  brown  paper. 

Stickies  are  heavenly  at  room  temperature,  but  even  better  slightly  warmed. 
They  have  been  a  Ragan  family  tradition  for  over  100  years. 

Robert  Ragan 

Scones 

1V4  cups  all-purpose  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

1/4  tablespoons  sugar  4  tablespoons  unsalted  butter 

V*  teaspoon  baking  powder  7  to  8  tablespoons  milk 
%  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  butter.  Add  milk.  Knead  lightly.  Pat  out 
dough  and  cut  in  circles.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  14  minutes.  Recipe  may 
be  doubled. 

/  made  these  often  for  Averill  's  dad.   They  were  one  of  his  favorites. 
We  still  love  them  at  family  gatherings. 

Johanna  Harkey 
Breads  and  Breakfast  6 1 


Best  Ever  Bran  Muffins 


Yields  3  Dozen 


1  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  Nabisco  100%  Bran 
1/4  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  margarine 

2  eggs 


1  pint  buttermilk 
IVi  cups  flour 

2Vi  teaspoons  baking  soda 
54  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  Kellogg's  All  Bran 


Mix  boiling  water  and  Nabisco  100%  Bran  in  a  large  bowl.  Soak  and  cool 
after  mixing.  With  electric  mixer,  combine  sugar,  margarine,  eggs  and 
buttermilk.  Add  to  bran  mixture.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt. 
Fold  in  Kellogg's  All  Bran.  Add  all  dry  ingredients  to  sugar  and  egg 
mixture.  Spoon  into  muffin  tins  and  bake  at  400  degrees  for  1 5  to  17 
minutes.  Batter  keeps  in  refrigerator  for  1  month.  May  add  nuts,  raisins  or 
dates  at  time  of  baking,  if  desired. 

Margaret  Emery 

Crunchy  Apple  Muffins 


Yields  I  Dozen 


1  cup  all-purpose  flour 
Vt  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

2  cups  peeled,  diced  apples 
legg 


'A  cup  vegetable  oil 

'A  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  coarsely  chopped  nuts 

Vi  cup  shredded  coconut 


Mix  flour,  salt  and  baking  soda  together.  In  a  separate  bowl,  add  remaining 
ingredients  and  mix  well.  Add  flour  and  blend  until  just  moistened.  Spoon 
the  batter  into  greased  muffin  tins  {%  full)  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to 
30  minutes.  Let  rest  in  pan  several  minutes  before  turning  out.  Dust  with 
confectioners  sugar  if  desired. 

Donna  Wit/nan 


62   Breads  and  Breakfast 


Hearty  Banana  Muffins 

l'/i  cups  all-purpose  flour  3A  cup  mashed  ripe  bananas 

(half  whole-wheat,  optional)  (about  2) 

'/z  cup  wheat  germ  %  cup  skim  milk 

'A  cup  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed  3  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

2Vi  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1V4  teaspoons  pumpkin  pie  spice  lA  cup  chopped  pecans  (optional) 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  wheat  germ,  baking  powder  and  pumpkin  pie  spice 
and  mix  well.  In  blender  mix  bananas,  milk,  egg  and  butter.  Add  to  dry 
ingredients  and  stir  until  moistened.  Fill  muffin  cups  to  almost  full.  Bake 
at  400  degrees  for  25  minutes. 

Yummy  and  reasonably  healthy. 

Nancy  Elberson 

Maple  Nut  Muffins 

Yields  1  Dozen 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour  !4  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  !4  cup  pure  maple  syrup 

'A  teaspoon  salt  'A  cup  melted  shortening 

1  large  egg  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  in  mixing  bowl.  In  another 
bowl,  combine  egg,  milk,  syrup,  and  melted  shortening.  Stir  into  flour 
mixture  and  mix  until  flour  is  moistened.  Stir  in  nuts.  Fill  12  greased 
muffin  tins  2A  full  and  bake  at  400  degrees  for  1 8  to  20  minutes.  One-half 
cup  of  Cary's  No-Sugar  Syrup  and  2  teaspoons  maple  extract  may  be 
substituted  for  the  Vz  cup  pure  maple  syrup. 

Lynn  Mclver 


Breads  and  Breakfast  63 


Mom's  Sweet 

cornbread 

Muffins 

Yields  10  to  12  Muffins 

VA  cups  buttermilk 
(or  skim  milk  with 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice) 

VA  cups  self-rising  corn  meal 

Vi  cup  flour 

Vi  cup  vegetable  oil 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  egg  (or  2  egg  whites) 

Mix  together  all  ingredients. 
Pour  into  lightly  greased 
muffin  tins.  Bake  at  475 
degrees  for  1 5  minutes.  Let 
cool  for  5  minutes  before 
serving. 

A  very  simple  recipe  with  a 
BIG  taste. 

Kathlvn  Caldwell 


Pecan  Muffins 


Yields  1  Dozen 


54  cup  shortening 
1  V*  cups  brown  sugar 

1  cup  buttermilk,  divided 

2  eggs,  beaten 
VA  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
'A  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
lA  cup  chopped  pecans 


Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Reserve  1  tablespoon  buttermilk.  Combine 
eggs  with  remaining  buttermilk.  Add  egg  mixture  and  flour  alternately  to 
shortening  and  sugar.  Add  salt.  Mix  reserved  buttermilk  and  baking  soda 
and  add  to  batter.  Add  vanilla.  Stir  in  nuts.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  at 
350  degrees  for  25  minutes.  Makes  1  dozen  regular  sized  muffins  or  2 
dozen  mini  muffins. 

Tina  Todd 

Phenomenal  Muffins 


5  tablespoons  butter 

Vi  cup  sugar 

legg 

VA  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

V*  teaspoon  salt 


%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
'A  cup  milk 
Topping: 

6  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

Vz  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  and  mix  well.  Combine  dry  ingredients. 
Add  dry  ingredients  and  milk  alternately  to  butter  and  sugar  mixture. 
Grease  muffin  tins  and  fill  each  cup  2A  full  with  batter.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  20  to  25  minutes.  When  they  are  done,  remove  immediately  from 
muffin  tins.  Brush  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon-sugar 
mixture.  Makes  12  regular  sized  muffins  or  24  mini  muffins.  Recipe  is 
easily  doubled. 

Jane  Arthurs  Radisill 


64  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Pinto  Bean  Muffins 

1  cup  sugar  Vi  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
lA  cup  low-fat  margarine  Vi  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  egg  whites  (or  Egg  Beaters)  lA  teaspoon  allspice 
2  cups  pinto  beans,  mashed  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

(about  IV2  cans)*  2  cups  diced,  peeled  apples 

1  cup  flour  (about  2  to  3  apples) 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  cup  raisins 

V2  teaspoon  salt  '/» cup  chopped  walnuts 

Cream  sugar  and  margarine.  Add  beaten  egg  whites  and  mashed  beans. 
Mix  well  in  mixer.  Sift  all  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  sugar  mixture.  Add 
apples,  raisins,  walnuts  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  at  375 
degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes,  checking  with  a  toothpick  after  15  minutes. 

*Using  2  full  cans  (15  or  16-oz)  of  beans  will  make  the  muffins  too  heavy 
and  they  will  not  cook  properly.  Measure  2  cups  of  beans  before  mashing. 

Don 't  let  the  name  fool  you!  These  should  be  called  apple -raisin-walnut 

spice  muffins.   You  can 't  taste  the  beans,  but  they  are  loaded  with  protein 

and  are  delicious. 

Gina  Folk 


Hush  Puppies 

Yields  2  Dozen 

34  cup  all-purpose  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  plain  white  corn  meal  1  cup  milk 

IV2  teaspoons  baking  soda  Shortening  for  frying 

Combine  first  5  ingredients.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  milk.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls  into  hot  shortening  and  cook  until  golden  brown.  When  done, 
drain  and  let  cool  on  paper  towels. 

Louise  "Beezy  "  Somerville 


Breads  and  Breakfast  65 


CORNBREAD 

Serves  Eight 


Vs  cup  vegetable  oil 

2  eggs,  lightly  beaten 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  (16-oz)  can  creamed  corn 

1  medium  onion,  grated 


V/i  cups  yellow  corn  meal 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  grated  sharp  Cheddar 
cheese,  divided 


Mix  oil,  eggs,  sour  cream  and  creamed  corn.  Stir  in  grated  onion.  Mix 
together  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  corn  mixture.  Batter  will  be  lumpy. 
Pour  half  the  batter  into  greased,  9-inch  iron  skillet.  Sprinkle  %  cup  cheese 
over  top.  Carefully  pour  remaining  batter  over  cheese.  Top  with  remaining 
cheese.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Melinda  Finch  Adkins 

Hot  Water  Cornbread 

Serves  Four 


2  cups  white  cornmeal 

Vt  teaspoon  baking  powder 

V/i  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

%  cup  half-and-half 


1  tablespoon  vegetable  oil 
1  to  2  cups  boiling  water 
Vegetable  oil 
Softened  butter 


Combine  first  4  ingredients  in  a  bowl.  Stir  in  half-and-half  and  1 
tablespoon  oil.  Gradually  add  boiling  water,  stirring  until  batter  is  the 
consistency  of  grits.  Pour  oil  to  a  depth  of  Vi  inch  into  a  large  heavy  skillet; 
place  over  medium  heat.  Drop  by  lA  cupfuls  into  hot  oil  and  fry  in  batches. 
3  minutes  on  each  side  or  until  golden.  Drain  on  paper  towels.  Serve  with 
softened  butter.  Makes  about  1  dozen. 

Man'  War 


66  Breads  and  Breakfast 


At  the  Christmas  Eve  service  at 
MPPC  around  1966.  adults  who 
enacted  the  nativity  scene  stood 
behind  a  screen.  As  a  child,  I 
was  touched  to  watch  my  father 
play  Joseph. 

Missv  Plvler 


Gourmet  Cornbread 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


3  eggs 

1  cup  sour  cream 

Vz  cup  salad  oil 

1  (8V2-OZ)  can  creamed  corn 


1  (9-oz)  box  Jiffy  or  Flako  corn 

muffin  mix 
1  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  eggs  well.  Add  sour  cream,  oil  and  corn  and  mix  by  hand  with  whisk. 
In  another  bowl,  mix  salt  and  muffin  mix.  Add  to  corn  mixture,  stirring 
until  well  mixed.  For  thick  pieces  of  cornbread,  pour  batter  into  greased 
8x8-inch  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes.  For  thinner  pieces, 
use  a  2-quart  oblong  baking  dish.  Cornbread  will  be  browned  when  done. 
Cornbread  has  moist  consistency  like  spoon  bread,  but  can  be  cut  into 
squares.  Serve  hot  with  real  butter. 

A  family  favorite  all  year  'round.    Wlien  I  serve  this  it  is  always  eaten  at  one 
sitting  because  it  is  so  delicious. 


Gloria  Dowd  Keith 


Grandmother's  Dressing 

Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


5  medium  potatoes 
1  pound  sausage 

1  small  onion,  diced 

2  to  3  stalks  of  celery,  diced 


legg 

2  cups  Pepperidge  Farm  stuffing 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  to  2  cups  turkey  broth 


Cook  potatoes;  peel  and  mash  in  a  large  bowl.  Cook  sausage  in  a  frying 
pan  and  drain  grease.  Return  sausage  to  stove  and  add  onion  and  celery. 
Cook  until  golden,  but  still  crunchy.  Remove  from  stove,  pour  in  strainer 
and  let  cool.  Combine  sausage  mixture,  potatoes,  egg  and  stuffing.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  stir  well.  Pour  broth  into  mixture  to  make  very  moist, 
but  not  soggy.  Place  in  casserole  dish.  Add  more  broth  if  desired.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  for  about  40  minutes,  until  dressing  is  hot  and  lightly  browned. 


A  favorite  at  Thanksgiving  for  years  -  great  left  over. 


Missy  Ply  let- 


Breads  and  Breakfast  67 


/  remember  Hugh  McManaway 
playing  hymns  on  his  musical 
saw!  It  was  a  large  handsaw 
that  he  bent  to  produce  quite  a 
unique  musical  sound.  I  have 
not  heard  one  played  again 
since  Miss  Belk  asked  him  to 
play  for  the  youth  at  church  in 
the  1950s. 

Nancy  Goolsby 


Our  Family's 
cornbread  dressing 

Yields  Enough  Dressing  for  a  10-pound  Turkey 


Sweet  Milk  Cornbread: 
3  cups  white  corn  meal 

2  teaspoons  salt 

3  teaspoon  baking  powder 
2  cups  milk 

2  eggs 

lA  cup  melted  Crisco 


Dressing: 

2  onions,  finely  diced 

3  stalks  celery,  finely  diced 
2/4  tablespoons  poultry 

seasoning 
1  teaspoon  salt 
%  cup  warm  water 


Sift  corn  meal  with  salt  and  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs.  Add  milk  and  mix 
well.  Add  to  corn  meal  mixture  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Add  hot  melted 
shortening.  Turn  mixture  into  well  greased  pan  in  which  shortening  has 
been  melted.  Bake  at  475  degrees  for  about  17  minutes.  Can  also  use  self- 
rising  corn  meal  and  omit  salt  and  baking  powder. 

Dressing:  Crumble  corn  bread  thoroughly.  Add  dressing  ingredients  and 
toss  lightly.  Stuff  the  turkey  craw  first,  then  the  main  cavity. 

This  recipe  is  from  my  great-grandmother,  Julia  Anna  Swinton  Dove  of 

Charleston,  South  Carolina.  She  was  born  around  1845.  It  has  been  a 

favorite  family  tradition  for  generations. 

Nancy  Goolsby 


68  Breads  and  Breakfast 


MlMP'S  CORNBREAD  DRESSING 

Yields  5  Quarts 

2  pounds  unsalted  white  cornmeal        2  teaspoons  pepper 

(whole  grain,  stone  ground)  3  teaspoons  celery  seed 

3  to  4  packages  Marshall's  8  ounces  Pepperidge  Farm  Herb 

Biscuits,  large  size  Dressing  mix 

2  cups  chopped  celery  6  eggs,  beaten 

154  cups  chopped  onion  3  (1454-oz)  cans  chicken  broth 

154  cups  butter,  divided  6  to  8  cups  hot  water 

3  teaspoons  salt 

Mix  commeal  with  enough  hot  water  to  make  slightly  runny.  Put  in  greased 
cast  iron  skillet  and  bake  at  350  degrees  about  30  to  45  minutes  until  brown. 
Cool  and  crumble  in  food  processor  with  metal  blade.  This  should  make 
about  12  cups. 

Thaw  and  bake  3  to  4  packages  Marshall's  biscuits  at  400  degrees  for  12  to 
14  minutes,  until  brown.  Cool  and  crumble  with  metal  blade  in  food 
processor.  This  should  make  about  8  cups. 

Saute  celery  and  onion  in  54  cup  butter.  Mix  all  of  the  above  ingredients  in 
large  bowl,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  celery  seed  and  Pepperidge  Farm  dressing 
mix.  Mix  well  and  then  add  beaten  eggs,  chicken  broth  and  1  cup  melted 
butter.  Mix  well,  and  add  6  to  8  cups  hot  water  to  make  a  mushy 
consistency.  Put  in  greased  baking  dishes.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  about 
30  minutes.  Serve  with  or  without  gravy. 


Old-fashioned  enjoyment! 


Wynne  McGarry 
Wynne  McLean 


Breads  and  Breakfast  69 


Linda  Hinson's 

Sour  Cream 

Biscuits 

Yields  12  Regular  Biscuits 

1  cup  butter,  melted 

1  cup  sour  cream 

2  cups  self-rising  flour 
2  teaspoons  sugar 

Mix  all  ingredients  together. 
Spoon  into  lined  muffin  cups 
in  regular  or  miniature  muffin 
pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
25  minutes.  Makes  12 
biscuits  in  regular  muffin 
pan.  Recipe  may  also  be 
halved.  These  freeze  well. 

This  is  one  of  my  mother-in- 
law  Lib  Harkey  's  favorite 
biscuits. 

Johanna  Harkey 


Maw-Maw's  Biscuits 

Yields  1  Dozen 


1  cup  self-rising  flour 
%  teaspoon  baking  soda 


2  heaping  tablespoons  shortening 
Scant  Vi  cup  buttermilk 


Sift  flour  and  baking  soda  into  mixing  bowl.  Cut  shortening  into  flour  with 
a  fork  or  pastry  blender.  Add  milk,  stirring  gently.  Knead  on  a  lightly 
floured  board  until  smooth  (about  20  times).  Roll  dough  until  1  inch  thick. 
Cut  with  floured  biscuit  cutter.  Place  on  baking  sheet.  Bake  at  425  degrees 
for  1 2  to  1 5  minutes  or  until  golden  brown. 

/  have  fond  memories  of  helping  my  grandmother,  Annette  Peery, 
make  these  biscuits  for  our  family  dinners. 

Day  Peety 


Orange  Cranberry  Marmalade 


Yields  8  to  9  Half  Pints 


5  cups  prepared  fruit 
(2  oranges,  1  lemon,  and 
1  pound  ripe  cranberries) 

1  'A  cups  water 


Vs  teaspoon  soda 
6/4  cups  sugar 

lA  bottle  (or  1  package)  Certo 
fruit  pectin 


Cut  oranges  and  lemon  into  quarters.  Remove  seeds.  Grind  fruit  or  chop 
fine  or  slice  wafer  thin.  Add  water  and  soda.  Simmer,  covered,  for  20 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  cranberries  and  simmer,  covered,  for  10 
minutes.  Measure  5  cups  fruit  mixture  into  very  large  saucepan.  Add  sugar 
and  mix  well.  Bring  to  a  full  rolling  boil  over  high  heat.  Boil  hard  1 
minute,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat  and  immediately  stir  in 
Certo.  Skim  off  foam  and  stir  about  7  minutes  to  cool.  Ladle  into  8  or  9 
'/2-pint  fruit  glasses.  Cover  at  once  to  seal  or  top  with  paraffin. 

I've  been  making  this  for  almost  50 years  to  give  away  at  Christmas. 
Don 't  try  to  double  the  recipe;  it  won 't  jell  properly  if  you  do. 

Ann  Wilson 


70  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Apricot  Jam 

1  pound  dried  apricots 
1  (15%-oz)  can  crushed 

pineapple,  drained 
5  cups  sugar 

Soak  apricots  in  water 
overnight  in  a  large  pan. 
Drain  water  off  and  add  more 
water  to  barely  cover 
apricots.  Cook  in  covered 
pan  until  apricots  are  soft 
enough  to  mash  with  potato 
masher.  After  mashing,  add 
pineapple  and  sugar  and  cook 
over  low  heat  until  mixture  is 
consistency  of  jam.  Keep  in 
refrigerator. 

Double  or  triple  recipe  to 
divide  into  containers  to  give 

as  Christmas  gifts.   This 

makes  a  delectable  garnish 

on  cooked  chicken  or  pork  or 

can  be  used  as  a  glaze.  Bob 

and  Ann  Stigall  love  this  jam! 

Glenda  Pettigrew 


Ice  Box  Rolls 


Yields  Five  to  Six  Dozen 


2  packages  yeast 
1  cup  cool  water 
1  cup  shortening 
3A  cup  sugar 


1  cup  boiling  water 

2  eggs,  beaten 

6  cups  plain  flour 
2  teaspoons  salt 


Dissolve  yeast  in  cool  water.  Mix  shortening  and  sugar  and  add  boiling 
water.  Add  beaten  eggs  to  shortening  mixture.  Stir  in  yeast  mixture.  Sift 
flour  with  salt  6  times,  and  then  add  slowly  to  shortening  mixture.  Place  in 
large  container,  cover,  and  store  in  refrigerator  overnight  or  up  to  2  weeks. 
Before  baking,  make  out  rolls  in  desired  shape,  place  on  baking  sheet  and 
let  rise  2  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Bake  at  400  degrees  until  golden  brown. 

These  are  also  called  "Busy  Lady  Rolls  "  because  they  do  not 
require  kneading. 

Louise  "Beezy"  Somerville 

Perfect  yeast  Rolls 

Yields  2  to  4  Dozen 


2  packages  dry  rapid-rise  yeast 
Vt  cup  butter-flavored  Crisco 
%  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  salt 


1  cup  real  mashed  potatoes 

2  beaten  eggs 

7  to  8  cups  bread  flour 
(can  use  all-purpose) 


Soften  yeast  in  2  cups  warm  water.  Blend  Crisco  into  yeast  mixture.  Add 
sugar,  salt,  flour,  mashed  potatoes  and  beaten  eggs.  Mix  well.  Cover  bowl 
with  damp  towel  (I  use  linen)  and  let  dough  rise  until  doubled  in  bulk. 
Shape  rolls  and  let  rise  again  for  1  to  2  hours.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  15  to 
20  minutes. 

Children  love  these  rolls.  Little  ones  will  eat  them  when  they 
won 't  eat  anything  else! 

Peggy  Young 


Breads  and  Breakfast  1 1 


Bread 

2  cans  Pillsbury  Hungry 

Jack  Biscuits  (20  biscuits) 
Vi  cup  margarine 

Melt  margarine  in  Bundt  cake 
pan  in  400-degree  oven. 
Open  biscuits  and  put  each 
one  "standing  up  on  edge"  in 
Bundt  pan.  Bake  8  to  10 
minutes.  Drizzle  a  little 
margarine  on  top  when  done. 

Quick  -  Easy  -  Good! 

Sarah  Page 


Pearlie's  Prayer  Rolls 


Yields  3  to  4  Dozen 


1  cup  milk  (skim  or  whole) 
3  tablespoons  sugar 

'/■i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  margarine 


1  egg,  well  beaten 

1  package  yeast,  dissolved  in 

%  cup  water 
3  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour 


Scald  milk  and  cool  to  lukewarm.  Pour  milk  over  sugar,  salt  and  margarine 
in  a  large  bowl.  Add  beaten  egg  and  dissolved  yeast.  Add  sifted  flour  and 
stir.  Mixture  will  be  soupy.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  doubled.  Spray  pastry 
board  or  other  work  surface  and  rolling  pin  with  nonstick  spray.  Sprinkle 
about  1  cup  of  flour  over  surface  and  rolling  pin.  Turn  dough  out  onto  work 
surface.  Knead  lightly  until  dough  holds  together  and  is  smooth,  about  15 
times.  Roll  dough  out  to  about  lA  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  3-inch  biscuit 
cutter.  Dip  one  end  of  each  roll  in  additional  melted  margarine,  fold  over  in 
half,  and  place  in  pie  pans  with  rolls  slightly  touching.  Cover  and  let  rolls 
rise  again  until  doubled.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until  barely  brown,  about  10 
minutes.  Turn  out  rolls  onto  rack  or  kitchen  towel  to  cool  and  keep  from 
sweating.  Place  back  in  pans  to  freeze,  if  desired  -  or  cook  a  little  longer  to 
eat  right  away.  To  serve  later,  thaw  and  bake. 

This  recipe  came  from  a  Charlotte  Observer  article  about  Pearl  ie  Allison, 

a  beloved  local  housekeeper  whose  rolls  delighted  everyone.   The  key  is 

that  you  say  a  prayer  as  you  make  each  roll!  No  wonder  they  are  so 

good  and  worth  the  trouble.  I  usually  double  the  recipe,  freezing 

the  rolls  ahead  for  family  holiday  meals. 

Kathy  McCollum 


72  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Rich  Yeast  Rolls 

Yields  About  20  Rolls 

Vi  cup  lukewarm  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  yeast  1  egg 

Pinch  of  sugar  4  cups  bread  or  all-purpose  flour  - 

Vi  cup  lukewarm  milk  just  enough  to  make  soft  dough 

Vi  cup  oil  V/i  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

Combine  first  three  ingredients.  Set  aside  to  proof  yeast.  Combine  next 
four  ingredients  in  electric  mixer  bowl.  Add  proofed  yeast.  Gradually  add 
flour;  mix  at  medium  high  speed  for  1  minute.  Turn  out  into  greased  bowl, 
turning  dough  once.  Cover  and  place  in  warm,  draft-free  place  until 
doubled  in  bulk.  Punch  down.  Let  rest  3  to  5  minutes.  Roll  out  on  floured 
board,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  dip  half  of  roll  in  melted  butter  and  fold  in 
half.  Place  buttered  side  up  in  sheet  cake  pan  that  has  been  sprayed  with 
vegetable  cooking  spray.  Do  not  cover.  Again,  place  in  warm,  draft  free 
place  until  doubled  in  size.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  12  to  15  minutes 
(covering  with  foil  if  tops  begin  to  over  cook)  or  until  golden  brown. 
Remove  from  oven  and  place  on  cooling  rack  for  3  to  5  minutes.  Carefully 
invert  pan,  cooling  rolls  slightly  on  rack.  Serve  piping  hot. 

«•*  A  closed  oven  with  2  cups  hot  water  makes  a  perfect  place  for  rolls 
to  rise. 

These  rolls  have  been  served  frequently  over  the  years 
at  the  John  Calvin  class  covered  dish  suppers. 

Ellen  Witherspoon 

^      *|*      ►j*      ^*      ^ 


Breads  and  Breakfast  73 


As  a  preschool  teacher  of  two- 
year-olds  at  MPPC's  Weekday 
School,  I  hear  a  lot  of  cute 
things.   One  morning  an  excited 
little  girl  was  talking  about  her 
parents  '  ski  trip  to  Tahoe. 
Wanting  to  be  a  part  of  the 
conversation,  a  young  friend 
standing  nearby  said 
enthusiastically,  "I've  been 
to  Tahoe  Bell!" 

Harriett  Pharr 


Apple-Egg  Casserole 

Serves  Ten 


4  cooking  apples,  peeled  and 

sliced 
2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  pound  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 


2  cups  shredded  cheddar  cheese 
1  Vi  cups  milk 

VA  cups  Bisquick 

3  eggs,  beaten 


Combine  apples  and  sugar.  Mix  well.  Spread  evenly  in  greased  9x1 3-inch 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  bacon  and  cheese  on  top.    Combine  remaining 
ingredients  and  beat  at  medium  speed  for  30  seconds.  Pour  over  bacon  and 
cheese.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Serve  warm. 


Great  at  holiday  time. 

Swiss  Baked  Eggs 


Anne  Plonk 


4  slices  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
4  tablespoons  shredded  Swiss 

cheese 


4  tablespoons  half-and-half 
4  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
2  teaspoons  chives 


In  each  of  4  ramekins,  place  %  of  the  crumbled  bacon,  1  tablespoon  cheese, 
and  1  tablespoon  half-and-half.  Break  1  egg  into  each  ramekin  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Set  cups  in  shallow  baking  pan  and  pour  about  1  inch 
water  into  the  pan.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Sprinkle  lA 
teaspoon  chives  on  top  of  each  egg  and  serve  hot. 

We  call  these  Christmas  Eggs  because  we  traditionally 
have  them  on  Christmas  mornings. 

Harriet  Pharr 


74  Breads  and  Breakfast 


The  Best  Breakfast  Casserole 

Serves  Six  to  Ten 

8  slices  white  bread  4  eggs 

3/i  teaspoon  dry  mustard  2lA  cups  milk,  divided 

3  cups  grated  sharp  cheese  1  package  Brown  and  Serve 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup,  regular  link  sausage  (found 

divided  in  the  frozen  food  section) 

Cook  sausage  according  to  directions  and  cut  into  bite-size  pieces.  Trim 
crusts  from  bread  slices  and  cut  into  cubes.  Layer  both  in  baking  dish.  Mix 
remaining  ingredients,  reserving  'A  can  soup  and  Vi  cup  milk.  Pour  egg 
mixture  over  bread  and  sausage,  cover  and  refrigerate  overnight.  When 
ready  to  serve,  mix  remaining  milk  and  soup  and  pour  on  top  of  casserole. 
Bake  at  300  degrees  for  1  'A  hours. 

This  is  a  fabulous  breakfast  dish  for  anything  from  family  get-togethers 

during  the  holidays  to  brunches.  Men  love  this  recipe.  It  can  be 

made  without  the  sausage  for  our  vegetarian  friends. 

Betsy  Capps 

Mushroom  Omelet 

V/i  cups  margarine  VA  cups  milk 

12  slices  white  bread  Dash  of  pepper 

8  ounces  sharp  cheddar  cheese,  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

grated  diluted  with  'A  soup  can  milk 

5  eggs  1  large  can  mushrooms,  drained 

Melt  margarine  in  baking  dish.  Trim  crusts  from  bread  and  cut  into  cubes; 
place  in  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  bread  cubes.  Combine 
eggs,  milk  and  pepper.  Pour  over  bread  and  cheese.  Cover  with  plastic 
wrap  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Before  baking,  combine  soup,  milk  and 
mushrooms  and  pour  over  all.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Marge  McCarty 
Breads  and  Breakfast  75 


Our  family  has  given  flowers  in 
the  sanctuary  in  memoty  of 
deceased  family  members  since 
1947  on  the  first  Sunday  in  the 
New  Year.   On  December  2, 
1 960,  George  and  I  were 
married  at  Christ  Church 
because  our  sanctuary  was 
under  construction.  Precious 
Eleanor  Belk  directed  our 
wedding,  and  Jim  Fogartie 
performed  the  ceremony.   These 
are  blessed  memories  for  us. 

Jane  Arthurs  Rudisill 


Egg  and  Mushroom  Casserole 

Serves  Eight 


8  hard-boiled  eggs 

Mayonnaise 

Curry  powder 

2  pounds  fresh  mushrooms, 
chopped 

1  small  onion,  chopped 

Cream  Sauce: 

2  tablespoons  flour 
2  tablespoons  butter 


1  cup  whole  milk 
1  cup  half-and-half 
'A  teaspoon  salt 
'A  teaspoon  pepper 
%  cup  sherry 
1  cup  grated  cheese 
Topping: 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 
Paprika 


Devil  eggs  with  mayonnaise  and  curry  powder  to  taste.  Set  aside.  Saute 
mushrooms  and  onion  in  small  amount  of  butter;  drain  well.  Place 
mushroom-onion  mixture  in  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Place  deviled  eggs  on 
top.  Make  cream  sauce  with  flour,  butter,  milk,  half-and-half,  salt,  pepper 
and  sherry.  After  sauce  thickens,  add  cheese  and  stir  until  smooth.  Pour 
over  eggs  in  casserole.  Top  with  breadcrumbs  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. 
Bake  at  300  degrees  until  casserole  bubbles.  May  be  made  one  day  ahead 
of  serving.    One  pound  of  cooked  and  peeled  shrimp  or  1  to  2  cups  cooked 
chicken  breast  may  be  added  to  casserole  before  cream  sauce  is  added. 

This  is  a  marvelous  casserole  for  brunch,  lunch  or  supper. 
Men  enjoy  it  -  my  husband  loves  it! 

Jane  Arthurs  Rudisill 


76  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Sausage  and  Egg  Casserole 

Serves  Six 

1  pound  sausage  5  eggs 

6  slices  white  bread  2  cups  half-and-half 

I '  \  cups  shredded  sharp  Cheddar  1  teaspoon  salt 

cheese  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Brown  sausage  and  drain.  Spread  bread  with  margarine  and  trim  off  crust. 
Cube  and  put  into  bottom  of  9x1 3-inch  glass  pan.  Spread  sausage  over 
bread  cubes.  Sprinkle  with  cheese.  Beat  eggs  with  half-and-half,  salt,  and 
dry  mustard.  Pour  over  bread,  sausage  and  cheese  mixture.  Chill  overnight 
for  best  taste.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  50  minutes. 

This  recipe  has  become  our  family 's  traditional  Christmas  brunch. 

Lynne  Shillinglaw 

Holiday  Sausage  and  Egg  Casserole 


6  slices  or  more  Pepperidge  Farm  8  eggs 

white  bread  2  cups  milk  with  a  dash  of  salt, 

1  pound  Neese's  sausage  pepper,  and  dry  mustard 

3  tablespoons  chopped  onions  1  pound  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Remove  crusts  from  bread  and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Put  in  greased 
casserole  dish.  Brown  sausage  and  onions.  Sprinkle  sausage  over  bread. 
Beat  eggs  and  mix  with  milk,  dry  mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  bread 
and  sausage.  Sprinkle  cheese  over  top.  Add  paprika  for  color.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  1 5  minutes.  Cool,  cover  with  foil  and  place  in  freezer.  When 
ready  to  serve,  remove  foil  to  finish  baking  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  40 
minutes. 

Elizabeth  Craig 


Breads  and  Breakfast  77 


Cheese  Grits 

Serves  Six 

4  cups  boiling  water 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  grits 

Vi  cup  butter 

8  ounces  grated  cheese 

2  eggs 

Cook  grits  in  boiling  water 
and  salt.  Add  butter  and 
cheese.  Add  beaten  eggs. 
Pour  into  greased  casserole. 
Bake  at  300  degrees  for  one 
hour. 

Johanna  Harkev 


Sausage  and  Grits  Casserole 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


2  cups  water 

l/i  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  quick  grits 

4  cups  shredded  cheddar  cheese 

4  eggs,  beaten 


1  cup  milk 

54  teaspoon  dried  whole  thyme 
'/'» teaspoon  garlic  salt 

2  pounds  cooked  mild  sausage 


Bring  water  and  salt  to  boil.  Stir  in  grits.  Return  to  boil  and  reduce  heat. 
Cook  4  minutes.  Combine  cheese  and  grits  in  large  mixing  bowl.  Stir  until 
cheese  is  melted.  Combine  eggs,  milk,  thyme  and  garlic  salt;  mix  well. 
Add  small  amount  of  grits  mixture  to  egg  mixture  and  stir  well.  Stir  egg 
mixture  into  grits  mixture,  add  sausage  and  stir.  Put  in  9x1 3-inch  baking 
dish.  Cover  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Remove  from  refrigerator  and  let 
stand  15  minutes  before  baking.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  50  to  55  minutes. 


This  always  gets  compliments. 

Bacon  Egg  Puff  Pie 


Virginia  Davis 


Serves  Six 


1  pound  bacon, 

1  (8-oz)  can  Crescent  dinner  rolls 

1  tomato,  thinly  sliced 

4  ounces  mozzarella  cheese,  sliced 

3  eggs,  separated 


1  cup  sour  cream 
Vi  cup  flour 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  pepper 


Cut  bacon  into  1-inch  pieces  and  cook  until  crisp.  Drain.  Separate  rolls 
into  8  triangles.  Fit  into  ungreased  9-inch  pie  pan,  pressing  edges  together 
to  form  crust.  Layer  bacon  pieces,  tomato  slices  and  cheese  on  top  of  crust. 
Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff;  set  aside.  In  large  mixing  bowl,  combine  egg 
yolks,  sour  cream,  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  well.  Fold  in  egg  whites 
and  pour  over  ingredients  in  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes. 

Jetta  Gill 


78  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Crustless  Bacon  and  Egg  Pie 

Serves  Eight 


Butter  for  pie  plate 

Vi  pound  bacon 

%  pound  small  mushrooms, 

quartered 
1  red,  yellow,  or  orange  bell 

pepper,  diced 
3  ounces  soft  goat  cheese 


Vi  cup  freshly  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 
1  tablespoon  fresh  thyme  leaves 
5  large  eggs 

1/4  cups  whipping  cream 
Salt 
Freshly  ground  pepper 


Butter  10-inch  pie  plate.  Cook  bacon  until  crisp.  Drain  on  paper  towels. 
Pour  off  all  but  2  tablespoons  fat  from  skillet.  Return  skillet  to  heat  and 
saute  mushrooms  for  4  minutes.  Remove  mushrooms  and  spread  in  pie 
plate.  Crumble  bacon  and  arrange  over  mushrooms,  along  with  pepper, 
cheeses  and  thyme.  Beat  eggs  and  cream  in  large  bowl  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Pour  egg  mixture  over  bacon  and  vegetable  mixture.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  until  eggs  are  set  and  top  is  golden  brown,  about  1  hour. 
Remove  from  oven  and  let  cool  slightly  (about  10  minutes)  before  serving. 
Slice  into  wedges  and  serve  warm. 


Delicious  brunch  dish.   Can  assemble  a  day  ahead. 


Pam  St  owe 


*%+  ►£«  ►!■«  ►£«  ►■+-« 


Breads  and  Breakfast  79 


Savory  Summer  Pie 

Serves  Eight 


Vi  (15-oz)  package  refrigerated 
piecrusts 

1  small  red  bell  pepper,  chopped 
'A.  purple  onion,  chopped 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  tablespoons  chopped  fresh  basil 
4  eggs 


1  cup  half-and-half 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vz  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cups  shredded  Monterey  Jack 
cheese 

V3  cup  shredded  Parmesan  cheese 

3  plum  tomatoes,  cut  into  '  4-inch 

thick  slices 


Fit  piecrust  into  a  9-inch  deep-dish  tart  pan;  prick  bottom  and  sides  of 
piecrust  with  fork.  Bake  piecrust  at  425  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven  and  set  aside.  Saute  bell  pepper,  onion  and  garlic  in  hot  oil  for  5 
minutes  or  until  tender.  Stir  in  basil.  Whisk  together  eggs  and  next  3 
ingredients.  Stir  in  sauteed  vegetables  and  cheeses.  Pour  mixture  into  crust 
and  top  with  sliced  tomato.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  45  to  50  minutes  or 
until  set,  shielding  edges  of  crust  with  strips  of  aluminum  foil  after  30 
minutes  to  prevent  excessive  browning.  Let  stand  5  minutes  before  serving. 

Jane  Swnmey  Mullennix,  Associate  Pastor 


80  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Spinach  Quiche 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


1  (10-oz)  package  spinach, 
cooked  and  drained 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1  cup  whipping  cream,  whipped 
1%  cups  Parmesan  cheese 


1  cup  sliced  Spanish  olives 

Vi  cup  onions,  sliced  and  sauteed 

Vi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  unbaked  (9-inch)  pie  shell 


Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  pie  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes  or  until  set.  To  freeze,  bake  for  20  minutes,  then  cool  and  freeze. 
To  serve,  thaw  and  bake  about  1 5  minutes. 

This  is  a  favorite  in  our  family  -  it  does  not  taste  like  spinach.  It  also  works 
well  for  individual  quiches. 

Teh  Deal 

*T*        "t*       *t*       *i*        *i* 

Quiche  Lorraine 

Sei-ves  Six 


1  deep  dish  piecrust 

18  strips  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
4  eggs 

2  cups  heavy  cream 
1  pinch  nutmeg 


1  pinch  sugar 

Vt  teaspoon  salt 

1  pinch  cayenne  pepper 

Freshly  ground  black  pepper 

Softened  butter 

4  ounces  grated  Swiss  cheese 


Combine  eggs,  cream,  nutmeg,  sugar,  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper.  Beat 
with  rotary  beater  just  long  enough  to  mix  thoroughly.  Rub  soft  butter  over 
the  surface  of  the  pie  crust  and  sprinkle  crumbled  bacon  over  the  bottom.* 
Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  bacon  and  pour  egg  mixture  over  all.  Bake  at 
450  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  325  degrees  and  continue 
baking  for  25  to  35  minutes  until  quiche  is  a  light  golden  brown. 
*You  can  reserve  Va  bacon  to  sprinkle  on  top  of  quiche  during  last  5  minute 
of  baking.  I  prefer  to  bake  the  piecrust  a  few  minutes  before  filling  it  with 
the  quiche  ingredients. 

Marge  Rowe 


Breads  and  Breakfast  8 1 


Springtime  Quiche 


Serves  Six 


1  Pillsbury  refrigerated  pie  crust 

2  tablespoons  chopped  fresh  chives 
2  cups  shredded  sharp  cheddar 

cheese 
1  cup  shredded  cooked  chicken 
V*  pound  fresh  asparagus 


6  slices  crispy  cooked  bacon,  cut 

into  1-inch  pieces 
1/4  cups  half-and-half  or  milk 
4  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
%  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  pepper 


Fit  crust  into  10-inch  quiche  dish,  pressing  firmly  against  bottom  and  sides. 
Sprinkle  chives  over  crust  and  gently  press  into  pastry.  Spread  cheese  over 
bottom  of  crust.  Top  with  chicken.  Sprinkle  bacon  over  chicken.  Place 
asparagus  spears  in  spoke  pattern  on  top  of  bacon.  In  small  bowl,  stir 
together  all  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  over  chicken  mixture.  Bake  for  40 
to  45  minutes  at  400  degrees  until  golden  and  set  in  center.  Let  stand  10 
minutes  before  serving. 

A  tasty  brunch  or  luncheon  dish,  or  delicious  as  a  light  summer  supper. 
Good  served  with  fresh  fruit. 


Pat  Blount 


French  Toast  Casserole 


2  tablespoons  light  corn  syrup 

Vt  cup  butter 

%  cup  brown  sugar 

Challah 


1/4  cups  whole  milk 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
5  eggs,  beaten 
V*  teaspoon  salt 


Heat  together  syrup,  butter  and  brown  sugar,  stirring  until  syrupy.  Pour 
mixture  into  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Slice  thick  pieces  of  challah  and  lay  on 
syrup.  Combine  milk,  vanilla,  eggs  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  pour  over 
challah.  Cover  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Bake  uncovered  at  350  degrees 
for  45  minutes. 

Gail  Brinn  Hi /kins 


82   Breads  and  Breakfast 


Best  Ever 

Crispy 
Waffles 

Yields  8  Small  Squares 

legg 

lA  cup  corn  or  canola  oil 
VA  cups  club  soda 
2  cups  Bisquick 

Preheat  waffle  iron. 
Combine  egg,  oil  and  soda 
water.  Mix  well.  Stir  in 
Bisquick.  Pour  batter  into 
heated  waffle  iron  and  cook 
according  to  appliance 
directions. 

Easy  and  delicious! 

Blair  Rohrer 


The  Best  Easy  French  Toast 


Serves  Six 


1  cup  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed 
Vi  cup  butter 

2  tablespoons  light  corn  syrup 
12  slices  sandwich  bread 


6  eggs,  beaten 
l'/z  cups  milk 
1  tablespoon  vanilla 
%  teaspoon  salt 


Combine  sugar,  butter  and  com  syrup  in  small  saucepan.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  syrup  into  9x1 3-inch 
baking  dish.  Place  6  slices  bread  on  top  of  syrup  mixture.  Top  with 
remaining  6  slices  of  bread.  Combine  eggs,  milk,  vanilla  and  salt,  stirring 
until  blended.  Pour  egg  mixture  evenly  over  bread  slices.  Cover  and  chill  8 
hours.  Bake  uncovered  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes. 


Sandy  DitPuy 


Blintz  Souffle 

Serves  Eight 


2  boxes  frozen  blintzes  - 
6  per  box,  any  variety 
4  eggs 

V/i  cups  sour  cream 
Vi  cup  butter 


%  cup  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  orange  juice 


Melt  butter  in  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Arrange  blintzes  in  pan.  Mix  together  all 
other  ingredients  and  pour  over  blintzes.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45-60 
minutes.  Can  be  made  ahead  and  refrigerated  before  baking.  Recipe  can  be 
halved. 

Delicious! 

Gail  Brinn  Wilkins 


Breads  and  Breakfast  83 


Blue  Barn 

Buttermilk 

Pancakes 

Senses  Four 

legg 

1  cup  buttermilk 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  cup  flour 

Mix  all  ingredients  together 
gently.  Let  sit  for  10  minutes 
while  batter  rises  (this  is  a 
must).  Lightly  oil  medium 
grill  or  griddle.  Spoon  'A  cup 
batter  onto  griddle  and  cook 
until  done.  Serve  with  warm 
maple  syrup  or  homemade 
jam. 

Kathy  Howe 


U.P.  Pancakes 

Yields  10  to  12  Pancakes  per  Batch 
One  Batch  U.P.  Pancake  Mix: 


1  cup  flour,  sifted 
%  teaspoon  salt 


1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 


Sift  flour  with  other  dry  ingredients  for  as  many  batches  as  you  like.  Store 
in  sealed  container. 


One  Batch  Pancakes: 

1  batch  (1  cup  2  tablespoons) 

U.P.  Pancake  mix 
legg 
1  cup  milk 


2  rounded  tablespoons  sour  cream 
2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 
Fresh  or  frozen  blueberries 
(optional) 


Beat  together  egg,  milk,  and  sour  cream.  Stir  into  flour  mixture.  Add 
melted  butter  and  beat  gently  with  a  slotted  spoon  or  whisk  until  smooth. 
Drop  a  small  spoonful  on  a  hot  griddle.  If  too  thick,  add  more  milk  a 
tablespoon  at  a  time.  Cook  on  hot  griddle,  adding  blueberries  before 
turning.  Two  or  three  batches  of  batter  may  be  prepared  at  a  time. 

We  like  to  take  several  batches  of  the  dry  mix  with  us  on  vacations  to  the 

Upper  Peninsula  (U.P.)  of  Michigan  or  to  the  beach  for  family  breakfasts. 

The  pancakes  are  wonderful  with  fresh  blueberries  (especially  if  the  family 

picks  them  the  day  before!). 

Barbara  Atkins 


84  Breads  and  Breakfast 


Tom's 

Homemade 

Buttermilk 

Waffles 

VA  cups  self-rising  flour 

2  large  eggs 

VA  cups  buttermilk 

3  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

Mix  all  ingredients  until 
smooth,  but  do  not  overmix. 
Preheat  waffle  iron  and  spray 
with  vegetable  spray.  Pour 
batter  into  waffle  iron  and 
cook  about  4  minutes.  Serve 
with  melted  butter  and  hot 
syrup. 

Tom  Dougherty 


Perfect  Waffles 

Yields  4  Belgian  Waffles 


VA  cups  flour 

'A  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 


2  eggs 

VA  cups  milk 

'A  cup  vegetable  oil 


Use  3  Bowl  Method  to  mix: 

Bowl  1 :  In  large  bowl,  combine  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder. 

Bowl  2:  Whisk  egg  yolks,  milk  and  oil. 

Bowl  3:  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff. 

Fold  Bowl  2  into  Bowl  1  and  Bowl  3  into  other  2  bowls. 

Heat  waffle  iron  and  get  syrup  ready.  Freezes  well. 

These  are  the  fluffiest  waffles  you  '11  ever  eat. 


Nancy  Little 


Sunday  Waffles 


2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  cup  vegetable  oil 


2  cups  milk 

8  or  9  rounded  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 


Beat  eggs  and  add  other  ingredients  in  order  listed.  Cook  in  waffle  iron. 

My  mother,  Marie  Patten,  who  joined  MP  PC  in  1946,  would  often  fix 

these  waffles  on  Sunday  mornings  before  church  and  sometimes 

for  Sunday  supper. 

Nancy  Goolsbv 


Breads  and  Breakfast  85 


S; 


hortly  after  moving  to  Charlotte,  we  visited  Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church.  The  first  Sunday  we  attended  the  Young  Marrieds  Class,  it  met  in  the 
Scout  Hut.  Dr.  John  Woltz  was  scheduled  to  teach,  but  by  class  time  he  had 
received  an  emergency  call  to  deliver  a  baby  No  teacher.  My  wife  said  loudly 
to  me,  "Why  don 't  you  teach?  "  I  said  it  was  our  first  Sunday  and  I  didn  't 
know  what  the  subject  was  and  hadn  't  made  any  preparation.  By  that  time  I 
was  being  urged  by  the  entire  class  to  teach.  I  finally  said  to  give  me  a  book 
(a  copy  of  the  International  Lesson)  and  sing  another  verse  of  the  last  hymn, 
and  then  I  taught  for  thirty  minutes.  My  wife  has  often  said  it  was  one  of  the 
best  lessons  I  have  ever  taught.  Well,  so  much  for  preparation.  After  I  was 
drafted  by  my  wife,  47  years  of  teaching  was  underway.  During  this  time  I 
have  had  the  opportunity  to  be  involved  in  many  church  activities  from  officer 
to  publishing  and  the  General  Assembly  level.  It  has  been  a  rich  and 
rewarding  experience  for  my  family  and  me.  Maybe  it's  better  to  be  drafted 
without  prior  notice  to  sen>e  the  church. 

RavA.  Killian,  Sr. 


The  Providence  Bible  Class  in  the  Qu 


Broccoli  Soup 


6V2  cups  water,  divided 

1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped 

broccoli 
%  cup  chopped  onion 
1  pound  Velveeta  cheese 
1  teaspoon  garlic  powder 


2  teaspoons  salt 
Vz  teaspoon  pepper 
'A  cup  butter 
'A  cup  flour 
1  cup  half-and-half 
1  cup  milk 


Boil  6  cups  water.  Add  broccoli  and  onion.  Cook  for  10  minutes.  Add 
cheese,  garlic  powder,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Mix  flour  in  Vi  cup  cold 
water  and  add  mixture  to  soup.  Add  half-and-half  and  milk.  Cook  over  low 
heat,  stirring  until  consistency  of  thick  cream. 


DeeDee  Warren 


Broccoli  Cheese  Soup 


Sen'es  Twelve 


1  tablespoon  butter 
3A  cup  chopped  onion 
6  cups  chicken  broth 
8  ounces  fine  egg  noodles 
1  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  garlic  powder 


2  (10-oz)  packages  frozen  chopped 

broccoli 
6  cups  milk 
1  pound  pasteurized  American 

cheese  slices 
Pepper  to  taste 


Saute  onions  in  butter.  Add  broth.  Boil  and  gradually  add  noodles  and  salt. 
Cook  uncovered  for  3  minutes.  Stir  in  broccoli  and  garlic  powder.  Cook 
for  3  more  minutes.  Add  milk,  cheese  and  pepper.  Stir  continually  until 
cheese  melts.  Freezes  well. 

This  soup  has  been  sen'ed  to  the  "Take  My  Hands  "  Circle. 
It  was  well  received. 

Emily  Booth 


Soups  and  Sandwiches 


One  of  my  earliest  memories  of 
MPPC  is  of  "wailing  on  tables  " 
at  the  Men  's  Club  dinners  held 
in  the  Scout  Hut,  the  location 
for  many  such  occasions.  Since 
my  father  attended  the  Monday 
night  meetings  and  my  mother 
and  a  lot  of  her  friends  (Man- 
Jones,  Lida  Wilson,  Janet 
McDonald)  all  assisted  in  the 
serving,  there  was  no  dinner  at 
our  homes;  and  Ri/ma  Wilson 
and  I  volunteered  to  serve  also— 
not  entirely  altruistically,  I 
admit,  as  we  soon  discovered 
there  were  a  lot  of  single  men  in 
the  "club."  We  had  a  good 
time!    The  china  was  white  with 
a  green  and  gold  border  and  a 
gold  "MPP"  on  each  piece. 
Wlien  that  pattern  was 
discontinued,  the  remaining 
pieces  were  sold  to  the  church 
membership  as  souvenirs.  I  still 
have  a  saucer  in  my  china 
cabinet.  Later  I  was  an 
assistant  Girl  Scout  leader  for  a 
troop  that  met  in  the  Hut  and  a 
Cub  Scout  den  mother  for  my 
older  son  and  his  friends.  After 
these  two  experiences,  I  decided 
I  was  a  better  "Home  "  mother 
than  a  "Hut "  mother;  and  I  let 
someone  else  cope  with  the 
younger  McPhails! 

Elizabeth  Lee  McPhail 


Easy  Bean  Soup 


2  cups  fat-free  chicken  broth 
1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  cup  chopped  celery 
1  teaspoon  minced  garlic 
1  can  black  beans 


1  can  mixed  beans 
1  can  refried  beans 
1  can  diced  tomatoes  with  chopped 

green  chilies 
1  cup  diced  ham  or  bacon  bits 


Saute  onion,  celery  and  garlic  in  a  little  of  the  chicken  broth.  Add  other 
ingredients.  Simmer  until  heated  through. 

Anne  McCoy 

Black  Bean  Soup 


1  onion,  chopped 

Celery  or  green  pepper,  chopped 

%  cup  olive  oil 

1  to  2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

1  ( 1 4-<>/)  can  tomatoes,  undrained 

1  (4-oz)  can  diced  green  chilies 


1  teaspoon  dried  thyme 
Salt  to  taste 

Lemon  juice 

4  (16-oz)  cans  black  beans, 
undrained 

2  cups  chicken  broth 


In  large  pot,  saute  onion  and  celery  (or  green  pepper)  in  olive  oil  for  5 
minutes.  Add  garlic  and  saute.  Add  tomatoes.  Stir  in  chilies,  thyme,  salt 
and  lemon  juice.  Simmer  10  minutes.  Add  black  beans  and  chicken  broth 
and  simmer  for  20  to  30  minutes. 

Peggy  Pierce 


Soups  and  Sandwiches  89 


"Wltat  is  the  name  of  this 
delicious  soup?  "  we  Senior 
Adults  asked  each  other  as  we 
had  lunch  at  the  Etowah  Inn 
near  Linville  on  a  beautiful  fall 
day  in  1999.   The  soup  was 
thick,  orange-  colored,  and  had 
a  swirl  of  cream  and  cinnamon 
on  top.   The  waiter  told  us  it 
was  Butternut  Squash  Soup. 
Emily  Booth  asked  for  the 
recipe.  Later,  during  the  MPPC 
Montreal  Weekend,  Rebecca 
and  Gordon  Schenck  serx'ed 
Carrot  Ginger  Soup  to  a  group 
of  us  who  stayed  at  our  house. 
It  was  similar  to  the  soup  we 
had  at  the  Etowah  Inn  and  very 
delicious.   This  is  the  Schencks ' 
recipe.  I  have  substituted  3  to  4 
cups  of  mashed  butternut 
squash  for  the  carrots  to  make  a 
soup  like  the  one  served  by  the 
Etowah  Inn.    The  squash  comes 
from  our  garden. 

Lois  Alexander 


Carrot  Ginger  or 
Butternut  Squash  Soup 


Senses  Six  to  Eight 


7  tablespoons  butter,  divided 

%  cup  minced  onion 

V*  cup  minced  gingerroot 

6  cups  chicken  broth 

10  to  12  medium  carrots,  sliced 


1  teaspoon  sugar 

V/i  cups  half-and-half 

Vt  cup  flour 

'/:  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


In  Dutch  oven,  melt  4  tablespoons  butter.  Saute  onion  and  gingerroot  5  to  7 
minutes  or  until  onion  is  softened.  Add  broth,  carrots  and  sugar.  Cover  and 
simmer  35  minutes.  Puree  mixture  in  blender.  Return  to  Dutch  oven  and 
stir  in  half-and-half.  Cook  over  low  heat  4  minutes. 

In  large  saucepan,  melt  3  tablespoons  butter  and  stir  in  flour.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  until  bubbly.  Slowly  add  carrot  mixture  back  into  main  soup. 
Season  to  taste  with  cinnamon,  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with  carrot  slices, 
if  desired,  and  serve. 

Note:  Three  or  four  cups  of  mashed  butternut  squash  may  be  substituted  for 
the  carrots.  If  using  squash,  do  not  garnish  soup  with  carrots.  Instead,  swirl 
cinnamon  and  a  little  cream  on  top. 

Lois  Alexander 


90  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Carrot  and 
Ginger  Soup 

Serves  Two 

3  carrots,  peeled  and  cooked 
1  (14'/2-oz)  can  chicken  broth 
Vi  teaspoon  fresh  ginger, 

grated 
'A  cup  cream 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  cooked  carrots,  chicken 
broth  and  ginger  in  blender. 
Transfer  mixture  to  pot  and 
boil  for  5  to  10  minutes. 
Remove  from  heat  and  add 
cream  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  immediately. 

The  chef  on  the  MS  Polaris 
ship  gave  this  recipe  to  me 

when  we  were  in  the 

Galapagos  Islands.  Doug 

and  I  like  it. 

Emilv  Booth 


Amish  Cheese  Soup 


Sen'es  Eight  to  Ten 


1  cup  chopped  celery 

V/i  cups  sliced  carrots 

VA  cups  cubed  potatoes 

1  large  onion,  chopped 

4  cups  low-fat  chicken  broth 

'A  bunch  broccoli,  cut  into  florets 


'A  head  cauliflower,  cut  into  florets 
2  cans  low-fat  cream  of 

chicken  or  mushroom  soup 
'A  cup  water 
1  pound  low-fat  Velveeta,  diced 


Combine  celery,  carrots,  potatoes,  onion  and  broth  in  a  large  pot.  Bring  to  a 
boil,  reduce  heat,  and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Add  broccoli  and  cauliflower 
and  cook  until  tender.  Stir  in  soup  and  water.  Add  the  cheese  30  minutes 
before  serving.  Stir  over  low  heat  until  cheese  is  melted  and  soup  is  hot. 
Note:  Use  more  broccoli  and  cauliflower  if  desired. 

Serve  this  hearty  soup  with  French  rolls  and  fruit  for  a  meal. 

Barbara  Atkins 

Cheddar  Chicken  Chowder 


1  cup  chopped  sweet  onion 

1  cup  chopped  red  bell  pepper 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 
4'A  cups  chicken  broth 

VA  cups  diced  red  potatoes 
2%  cups  frozen  whole  kernel  corn 
Vi  cup  flour 
2  cups  milk 


1  pound  chicken  breast,  cooked 

and  chopped 
1  cup  shredded  Monterey  Jack  or 

Cheddar  cheese 
Vz  teaspoon  salt 
V*  teaspoon  pepper 
Dash  of  Montreal  Seasoning 


Saute  onion,  pepper  and  garlic  in  butter.  Add  broth  and  potatoes.  Boil  15 
to  20  minutes  or  until  potatoes  are  done.  Add  corn.  Whisk  flour  and  milk 
in  bowl  and  add  to  soup.  Cook  over  medium  heat  10  to  15  minutes  until 
thick.  Add  chicken,  stir  in  cheese  and  add  seasonings.  Serve  with  crispy 
bread. 

This  recipe  is  easy  and  filling,  and  even  kids  like  it. 

Adrienne  Davis 


Soups  and  Sandwiches  9 1 


"The  Scout  Hut"  provides  many 
memories  and  not  just  for  Boy 
and  Girl  Scouts  who  met  there. 
I  kept  the  Nursery  in  the  Hut  for 
children  whose  parents  attended 
church,  and  the  Weekday  School 
used  the  Hut  to  play  in  on  rainy 
days.  I  started  teaching  a 
Sunday  school  class  for  5-year- 
olds  in  1946,  and  my  class  was 
moved  to  the  Hut  so  we  could 
have  more  space.   Our  church 
grew  rapidly  and  we  needed 
more  room  for  all  the  Sunday 
school  classes;  thus,  the  Hut 
had  to  he  moved  out  of  the  way 
for  the  wonderful  Children  's 
Building.   Then  the  children 
remained  in  their  classrooms 
during  the  church  hour,  and  we 
called  it  "The  Extended 
Session.  "  Sewing  as  a  teacher, 
a  helper  in  the  Extended  Session 
and  Sunday  school  classes,  and 
superintendent  of  the  Sunday 
School  Kindergarten 
Department  until  I  retired  in 
1972  gave  me  precious 
memories  of  those  years. 

Mildred  Edwards 


Cheese  Soup 


Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 


Vi  cup  butter 

4  green  onions,  chopped 

Vi  cup  finely  chopped  carrots 

V*  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

2  cups  chicken  broth 

2  teaspoons  poultry  seasoning 

1  teaspoon  salt 


V»  cup  flour 

2'/2  cups  whole  milk,  divided 

Fresh  ground  pepper  to  taste 

'A  cup  sherry  (optional) 

4  cups  white  American  cheese, 

grated 
Chopped  parsley  for  garnish 


Melt  butter  in  large  pot  and  saute  onion  until  tender.  Stir  in  carrots  and 
celery.  Add  broth,  poultry  seasoning  and  salt.  Cook  over  medium  heat 
until  vegetables  are  tender.  Make  a  paste  of  flour  and  Wi  cups  milk.  Add 
to  mixture  and  stir  until  blended.  Add  remaining  cup  of  milk  while  stirring. 
Add  grated  cheese.  Cook  over  low  heat  until  melted.  Just  before  serving, 
add  sherry.  Pour  into  soup  bowls  and  garnish  with  chopped  parsley. 


Serve  with  spinach  salad  and  bread. 


Jan  Stubblefield 


92  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Hamburger  Soup 


1  pound  ground  beef 
1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  turnip,  peeled  and  cubed 
1  cup  diced  carrots 
Vi  cup  chopped  celery 
1  cup  shredded  cabbage 
1  (28-oz)  can  tomatoes 
'/» cup  rice 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  bay  leaf 

Vi  teaspoon  thyme 

V-i  teaspoon  basil 

5  teaspoons  salt 

'4  teaspoon  pepper 

1  quart  water 

1  can  beef  consomme 


Brown  beef  and  onions  in  soup  pot.  Add  turnips  and  continue  to  brown  for 
a  few  minutes.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  simmer  covered  for  about  1 
hour. 

Linda  Johnson 

Hot  Chili  Con  Carne 

Seizes  Four  to  Six 


VA  pounds  ground  beef 
1  medium  onion,  chopped 
1  small  green  pepper,  chopped 
1  (15-oz)  can  red  kidney  beans, 

undrained 
1  (16-oz)  can  whole  peeled 

tomatoes,  undrained 
3  ounces  Heinz  Chili  Sauce 


1  package  McCormick  chili 
seasoning  mix 

1  Vt  teaspoons  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  ground  cumin 

2  teaspoons  chili  powder 

5  to  10  pickled  jalapeno  slices, 
medium  or  hot  (optional) 


Brown  meat  with  onion  and  green  pepper.  Drain.  Mix  in  all  other 
ingredients;  cover  and  simmer  for  1  to  IV2  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 

This  is  my  version  of  chili  con  carne.  I  like  it  a  little  spicy, 
and  it  is  great  on  a  cold  day. 

Rachel  MacBain 


Soups  and  Sandwiches  93 


Trappers  Chili 


Senses  Six 


1/4  pounds  ground  beef 
1  cup  chopped  onion 

1  large  can  tomato  juice 

2  cans  kidney  beans 

6  to  8  potatoes,  cubed  and  cooked 
1  teaspoon  chili  powder 
Vi  teaspoon  chili  pepper 


Vi  teaspoon  garlic  salt 
1  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
Vi  pound  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled  (optional) 
Cheddar  cheese 


Saute  ground  beef  and  onion  until  beef  is  brown.  Pour  tomato  juice 
into  large  saucepan  and  add  ground  beef  and  onion.  Add  kidney  beans, 
potatoes,  spices  and  bacon.  Simmer  over  medium  heat  for  1  '/•>  hours. 
Serve  with  cheddar  cheese  and  corn  bread. 


Perfect  meal  for  cold  winter  nights! 

White  Chili 

Seizes  Eieht  to  Ten 


Laura  Kabrich 


1  pound  dried  large  white  beans 
6  cups  chicken  broth 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

2  medium  onions,  chopped,  divided 

1  tablespoon  oil 

2  (4-o/.)  cans  diced  mild  chilies 
2  teaspoons  ground  cumin 


l'/z  teaspoons  dried  oregano 

Vt  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

lA  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

4  cups  diced  cooked  chicken  breast 

3  cups  shredded  Monterey  Jack 

cheese 
Salsa 


Combine  beans,  broth,  garlic  and  half  the  onions  in  large  soup  pot.  Bring  to 
a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  until  beans  are  soft,  adding  more  broth  if 
necessary.    In  a  skillet,  saute  remaining  onions  in  oil  until  tender.  Add 
chilies  and  seasoning  and  mix  well.  Add  to  bean  mixture.  Add  chicken  and 
simmer  one  hour.  Serve  hot,  topped  with  grated  cheese  and  salsa. 

Frances  Marion  Scholtz 


94  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


White  Bean 
Chili 


Se 


Ten 


4  chicken  breasts  (2  pounds), 

cooked  and  cup  up 
4  cans  Great  Northern  beans 

2  onions,  chopped 

'A  cup  chunky  medium  salsa 
VA  teaspoons  oregano 
Vt  teaspoon  cloves 
Minced  garlic  to  taste 
6  cups  chicken  broth 

3  cups  grated  Monterey  Jack 

cheese 

Combine  chicken,  beans, 
onion,  salsa  and  seasonings. 
Simmer  1  hour.  Stir  in  2 
cups  of  cheese.  When 
serving,  sprinkle  some  of  the 
remaining  cheese  on  top  of 
each  bowl.  Can  place 
ingredients  in  crock  pot  and 
simmer  until  ready  to  serve. 
Freezes  well. 

Ann  Edgerton 


White  Chili 

Senses  Six 


1  cup  dried  Navy  beans 

3  (10/4-oz)  cans  chicken  broth 

1  cup  water 

VA  cups  chopped  onion 

1  clove  garlic,  minced 
V*  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  chopped  chicken  breasts, 

cooked 


1  (4-oz)  can  diced  chilies 
1  teaspoon  ground  cumin 
%  teaspoon  dried  whole  oregano 
V*  teaspoon  ground  red  pepper 
%  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
%  cup  shredded  Monterey  Jack 
cheese 


Sort  and  wash  beans  and  place  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Cover  with  water  2  inches 
above  beans;  let  soak  over  night  or  8  hours.  Drain  beans  and  return  to 
Dutch  oven.  Add  broth  and  next  4  ingredients.  Bring  to  boil.  Cover, 
reduce  heat,  and  simmer  2  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  chicken  and 
next  5  ingredients.  Cover  and  cook  30  minutes.  Spoon  into  serving  bowls. 
Top  each  serving  with  cheese. 

Claudia  Sturges 

Smokey  Sausage  Chili 

Sen'es  Six 


1  pound  ground  beef 

1  large  onion,  coarsely  chopped 

2  teaspoons  chili  powder 

2  teaspoons  ground  cumin 
Vi  pound  smoked  sausage 

or  Kielbasa,  sliced  %  inch 

thick  and  halved 


1  (16-oz)  can  red  kidney  beans, 

drained 
1  cup  picante  sauce 
1  cup  vegetable  juice  cocktail 
1  (8-oz)  can  tomato  sauce 
Toppings:  Sour  cream,  shredded 

cheddar  cheese,  diced  avocado 


Brown  ground  beef  with  onion  in  large  saucepan  or  Dutch  oven;  drain. 
Sprinkle  chili  powder  and  cumin  over  meat.  Stir  and  cook  1  minute.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer, 
uncovered,  for  20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Ladle  into  bowls  and  add 
toppings  as  desired. 

Jeanne  Smith,  staff' 


Soups  and  Sandwiches  95 


Crab  Soup 

1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom 

soup 
1  can  cream  of  tomato  soup 
1  cup  whole  milk 
1  (8-oz)  can  crab  meat, 

drained 
V*  cup  sherry 

Mix  together  all  ingredients, 
except  sherry,  and  heat 
through.  Add  sherry  just 
before  serving. 

Louise  Hull 


Crab  Gumbo 


3  leeks  or  1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  celery  heart,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  pound  crab  meat 

2  small  cans  okra,  drained 


1  (20-oz)  can  tomatoes 
1  tablespoon  MSG 
Vi  teaspoon  cracker  crumbs, 
or  bread  crumbs 


Saute  onion  and  celery  until  soft.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  simmer 
for  30  minutes. 

Cordy  Chapman 

Crab  Soup  from  Pawley's  Island 


1  tablespoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  mashed 
1  grated  lemon  peel 
1  quart  half-and-half 


VA  pounds  crab  meat 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Vi  cup  sherry 


Blend  butter  and  flour  in  double  boiler.  Stir  in  eggs  and  lemon  peel. 
Add  half-and-half  and  stir  until  thickened.  Add  crab  meat  and  simmer  5 
minutes.  Add  seasonings  and  stir  in  sherry. 


Great  with  a  spinach  salad  and  corn  bread. 


Roonev  Rohison 


96  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Christmas 

Night  Oyster 

Stew 

Serves  Twenty 

1  gallon  whole  milk 
1  quart  half-and-half 

1  gallon  oysters,  slightly 
drained 

4  tablespoons  butter 
3  cups  diced  celery 

2  cups  diced  onion 

Few  dashes  Worcestershire 

sauce 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Paprika 
Oyster  crackers 

Saute  celery  and  onion  in 
butter  until  transparent.  Heat 
milk  and  half-and-half  in 
large  soup  pot.  Do  not  boil. 
Add  celery,  onions  and 
oysters.  Cook  until  oysters 
curl  on  edges.  Season  to 
taste.  Serve  with  dash  of 
paprika  on  top  and  oyster 
crackers  on  the  side. 

Elizabeth  Pitts 


Chilled  Cucumber  and  Yogurt  Soup 

Serves  Four 


2  cups  plain  yogurt 

vi  cup  canned  chicken  broth 

%  cup  cucumber,  peeled  and 

seeded 
V*  cup  half-and-half 
Salt  to  taste 


White  pepper  to  taste 

1  teaspoon  chopped  green  onion, 

including  tender  green  top 
l/i  teaspoon  fresh  dill,  chopped 

or  %  teaspoon  dried  dill 
1  teaspoon  fresh  lemon  juice 


Add  yogurt  to  chicken  broth  and  mix  well.  Grate  cucumber  and  add  to 
broth  mixture.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  stir  well  until  blended. 
Adjust  seasonings  to  taste.  Chill  at  least  4  hours.  Garnish  each  serving 
with  a  pinch  of  fresh  or  dried  dill  weed. 

Sylvia  Dal  ton 

Chilled  Cucumber  Mint  Summer  Soup 

Serves  Four 


4  cucumbers,  peeled  and  seeded 
1  small  clove  garlic,  minced 

1  cup  plain  yogurt 

2  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice, 

or  more  to  taste 


%  cup  water 

4  scullions,  white  and  green  parts, 

cut  into  1-inch  pieces 
3A  cup  mint  leaves,  loosely  packed 
Salt  and  freshly  ground  pepper 


Cut  one  cucumber  into  thinly  diced  pieces  and  set  aside  for  garnish.  Cut 
other  cucumbers  into  large  chunks.  Combine  cucumbers,  garlic,  yogurt, 
lemon  juice  and  water  in  blender  and  puree  until  smooth.  Add  scallions  and 
mint  leaves,  reserving  some  of  the  mint  for  garnish.  Puree  briefly.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  more  lemon  juice  if  desired.  Chill  until  ready  to 
serve.  Stir  well  before  serving.  Ladle  soup  into  mugs  or  bowls,  garnishing 
each  with  a  big  spoonful  of  diced  cucumber  and  a  sprig  of  mint. 

A  simple  and  refreshing  summer  starter.  Quick  and  easy  to  prepare. 

Susanne  McGuire 


Soups  and  Sandwiches  97 


White 
Gazpacho 

Serves  Six 

3  medium  cucumbers,  peeled 
and  cut  into  1-inch  chunks 
3  cups  chicken  broth 
3  cups  sour  cream  or  yogurt 
3  tablespoons  white  vinegar 
2  teaspoons  garlic  salt 
2  tomatoes,  peeled  and 

chopped 
%  cup  almonds,  toasted 
Vi  cup  sliced  green  onion 
Vi  cup  chopped  parsley 

Whirl  cucumber  chunks  in 
blender  a  very  short  time 
with  a  little  chicken  broth. 
Combine  with  remaining 
chicken  broth,  sour  cream, 
vinegar  and  garlic  salt.  Stir 
to  mix.  Chill.  Sprinkle 
tomatoes,  almonds,  onion  and 
parsley  on  top  when  serving. 

Melissa  Stroup 


Quick  and  Easy  Gazpacho 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


3  cups  chicken  broth 

3  cups  cucumbers,  diced 

3  cups  sour  cream 

3  tablespoons  apple  cider  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  garlic  salt 


Topping: 

2  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped 
Vi  cup  almonds,  toasted,  chopped 
Vi  cup  spring  onions,  thinly  sliced 
Vi  cup  chopped  parsley 


Blend  together  first  5  ingredients  and  chill.  Mix  topping  ingredients 
together  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  soup  before  serving. 

This  is  refreshing  for  lunch  with  a  tossed  green  salad  on  a  hot  summer  day. 

Mc Daniel  (Mac)  Jackson 

Spicy  Gazpacho  with  Shrimp  and  Crab 


Sen'es  Six 


3  cups  peeled,  seeded  and 
chopped  fresh  tomatoes 
Vt  cup  chopped  red  onion 
'A  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

1  cup  chopped  sweet  red  pepper 

2  teaspoons  chopped  hot  pepper, 

or  to  taste 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  garlic 
1  tablespoon  dried  coriander 

leaves,  crumbled 


Vi  cup  chopped  fresh  cilantro 

1  cup  tomato  juice 

4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  tablespoons  fresh  lime  juice 

3  tablespoons  red  wine  vinegar 
Salt,  freshly  ground  pepper 

1  pound  shrimp,  cooked  and 

peeled 
1  pound  lump  crab  meat,  cleaned 
Garlic  croutons 


Combine  all  ingredients,  except  seafood  and  croutons,  in  a  mixing  bowl. 
Cover  with  plastic  and  refrigerate  until  chilled.  Stir  in  crab  meat  and 
shrimp  just  before  serving.  Serve  in  chilled  bowls  and  top  with  croutons. 

Bunny  Church 


98  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Chilled  Potato  Leek  Soup 


Serves  Ten 


1%  quarts  chicken  broth 
1 '  .1  quarts  diced  potatoes 
1  white  leek  split,  cleaned,  and 

diced 
1  celery  stalk,  diced 
%  head  celeriac,  diced  large 
%  onion,  diced 
1  sprig  fresh  thyme 


1  bay  leaf 

1%  teaspoons  cracked  peppercorns 

1%  cups  heavy  cream 

6  ounces  whole  butter 

Vz  cup  cider  vinegar 

1  cup  sour  cream 

Salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste 


Saute  the  vegetables  in  the  whole  butter  until  translucent.  Add  chicken 
stock,  herbs  and  spices  and  simmer  for  1  hour.  Add  cream  and  continue  to 
reduce  for  Vi  hour.  Blend  soup  until  smooth  and  strain  through  a  fine  whole 
strainer.  Finish  with  cider  vinegar,  sour  cream  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Susan  "Woozie"  Dell 

Peggy's  French  Onion  Soup 

Serves  Three 


1  can  beef  broth 

1  soup  can  water 

2  small  onions,  sliced  and  sau teed 
in  1  tablespoon  butter 

7  large  mushrooms,  sliced 
1  tablespoon  butter 


Lemon  juice  to  taste 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste 
Garlic  salt  to  taste 
3  slices  French  bread 
Parmesan  cheese 
Mozzarella  cheese 


Simmer  beef  broth,  water  and  onions  for  15  minutes.  While  mixture  is 
simmering,  saute  mushrooms  in  butter.  Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice, 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  garlic  salt.  Toast  bread  and  put  a  slice  in  each  of 
3  ovenproof  soup  bowls.  Arrange  lA  of  mushrooms  on  each  slice  of  bread. 
Pour  soup  over  bread  and  mushrooms.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese  and 
cover  with  Mozzarella  cheese.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes. 

Peggy  Young 


Soups  and  Sandwiches  99 


Cold  Peach 
Soup 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 

5  large  ripe  peaches, 

peeled  and  quartered 
%  cup  sugar 

1  cup  sour  cream 

2  tablespoons  fresh  lemon 
juice 

%  cup  sweet  sherry 

3  tablespoons  orange  juice 

concentrate 
Half-and-half  (optional) 

Puree  all  ingredients  and 
chill.  May  need  to  thin  soup 
with  half-and-half. 

Harriet  Pharr 


Pumpkin  Soup 


Senses  Four 


2  (14/4-oz)  cans  chicken  broth 
1  cup  whipping  cream 

1  (15-oz)  can  pure  pumpkin 

3  tablespoons  dark  brown  sugar 


1  teaspoon  curry  powder,  or  to  taste 
V*  cup  Bloody  Mary  mix,  or  to  taste 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  cup  grated  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 


Bring  broth  and  cream  to  a  boil.  Whisk  in  pumpkin,  brown  sugar,  curry 
powder  and  Bloody  Mary  mix.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  a  few  minutes. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Ladle  into  soup  bowls  and  garnish  each 
serving  with  cheddar  cheese. 


/  even  like  this  soup  cold. 


Emily  Booth 


Old  Salem's  Pumpkin  Soup 


Ser\>es  Four  to  Six 


2  tablespoons  butter 

1  green  onion  including  top, 

chopped 
1  large  sprig  parsley, 

or  'A  teaspoon  dried  parsley 
1  large  sprig  thyme, 

or  54  teaspoon  dried  thyme 
1  bay  leaf 


2  cans  chicken  broth 
1  can  pumpkin 
1  tablespoon  flour 
'A  cup  milk 
Vi  teaspoon  nutmeg 
'A  teaspoon  sugar 
Salt  to  taste 


Melt  butter  in  large  pan.  Add  onion,  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf.  Simmer 
5  minutes.  Add  chicken  broth  and  pumpkin.    Simmer  30  minutes.  Blend 
flour  with  milk  and  stir  into  soup.  Season  with  nutmeg,  sugar  and  salt. 
Simmer  3  minutes. 

The  best!  I  got  this  recipe  from  a  friend  who  was  a  waitress  at 
Old  Salem  Tavern. 

Anita  Zeigler 


1 00  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Sunday  school  for  both  boys  and 
girls  met  in  an  assembly,  then 
recessed  for  the  lesson:  the  boys 
with  their  teacher  going  to  one 
of  the  rooms  off  the  main  floor 
of  the  Log  Hut  and  the  girls 
likewise  to  their  room.  Mrs. 
Query  was  my  teacher,  and  Mr. 
R.  M.  Mauldin  was 
superintendent  of  the  Sunday 
school.   The  Director  of 
Religious  Education  was 
Margaret  Van  Devanter,  whom 
eveiybody  liked.   We  had  what 
was  known  as  League  on 
Sunday  evenings.  Mrs.  Hunter 
Marshall  and  Mrs.  Tom 
Glasgow  made  sandwiches  for 
us,  and  Frank  Peagram  and 
Louise  Morris  led  the  service. 
The  Hut  was  also  used  by  the 
Scouts.  I  was  a  member  of 
Troop  55  when  John  B.  London 
was  scoutmaster  and  Llewellyn 
H.  Griffith  was  assistant.  I  also 
was  a  camper  in  summertime  at 
Camp  Steere,  the  Boy  Scout 
camp  on  the  Catawba  River, 
named  for  Scout  executive 
James  E.  Steere.  I  enjoyed  very 
much  being  out  there  and 
earned  1 7  merit  badges.    When  I 
was  employed  as  a  soda 
fountain  attendant  at  Park 
Place  Pharmacy,  Rev.  James  A. 
Jones,  our  second  minister, 
visited  there  from  time  to  time, 
getting  to  know  the  voting 
people  of  the  church,  on  whom 
he  had  a  great  influence. 

Thomas  G.  Lane,  Jr. 


Elizabeth's  Christmas  Eve  Soup 


Serves  Six 


2  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  minced  onion 
Vt  cup  flour 

4  cups  chicken  broth 

2  cups  cooked  wild  rice 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  half-and-half 

2  tablespoons  dry  sherry 
Minced  parsley  and  chives 


Make  a  roux  of  butter,  minced  onion,  flour  and  chicken  broth.  Stir  in 
cooked  wild  rice.  Bring  to  a  boil,  remove  from  heat,  and  stir  in  salt,  half- 
and-half,  sherry,  minced  parsley  and  chives.  Serve  immediately.  If  you 
can't  serve  immediately,  keep  soup  warm  and  stir  periodically  to  keep  it 
smooth.  If  soup  thickens,  add  more  chicken  broth,  or  sherry. 

A  full,  delicious  soup.   Great  with  ham  biscuits  and  a  fresh  fruit  salad. 


Betsv  Wliite 


Wild  Rice  Soup 


Sei-ves  Four 


Vt  cup  wild  rice 
1  can  chicken  broth 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  carrots,  finely  grated 


1  small  onion,  grated 
Small  amount  shredded  chicken 
or  turkey 


Soak  rice  overnight.  Cook  rice  until  well  done,  about  45  minutes.  In 
another  pot,  mix  chicken  broth,  mushroom  soup,  carrots  and  onion.  Cook 
until  vegetables  are  tender.    Add  cooked  rice  and  chicken  to  soup  mixture 
and  simmer  about  45  minutes.  Recipe  is  easily  doubled  or  tripled. 

This  soup  is  soul  food  for  the  sick  -  it  almost  makes  you  well. 

Sloan  Wliite 


Soups  and  Sandwiches   101 


Taco  Soup 

2  pounds  ground  beef, 

browned 
1  large  onion,  chopped 
1  large  can  tomatoes 
1  can  black  beans 
1  can  pinto  beans 
1  can  whole  kernel  corn 
1  (20-oz)  jar  mild  salsa 
1  envelope  mild  taco 

seasoning 
Saltines  or  tortilla  chips 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  heat 
45  minutes  to  1  hour.  Top 
with  cream  cheese  or  sour 
cream.  Serve  with  saltines  or 
tortilla  chips. 

Lib  McPhail 


Santa  Fe  Soup 


2  pounds  ground  beef,  browned 
2  (28-oz)  cans  Hunt's  Special 

Select  diced  tomatoes, 

undrained 
2  cans  white  shoepeg  corn, 

undrained 
2  cans  black  beans,  undrained 
2  packages  Ranch  dressing  mix 


2  packages  taco  seasoning 

2  cups  water 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  onion,  chopped  and  sauteed 

Optional  Toppings: 

Grated  cheese 

Sour  cream 

Fresh  parsley 


Combine  all  ingredients.  Simmer  about  30  minutes.  Serve  topped  with 
grated  cheese,  sour  cream  and  diced  fresh  parsley,  if  desired. 


Kathv  Southerland 


Seafood  Chowder 

Yields  12  Cups 


4  medium  onions,  chopped 

1  large  green  pepper,  chopped 
'A  cup  oil 

2  tablespoons  flour 

3  (14-oz)  cans  stewed  tomatoes, 

undrained 
1  tablespoon  celery  salt 
1  teaspoon  garlic  powder 


1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  hot  sauce 
Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

2  pounds  shrimp,  peeled 
Vt  pound  crab  meat 

'A  pint  oysters 

1  large  fish  fillet,  cut  in  bite-size 
pieces 


In  a  large  saucepan,  saute  onion  and  pepper  in  oil.  Add  flour,  stirring  until 
smooth.  Cook  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Stir  in  next  6  ingredients  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  Cover,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Add  shrimp, 
crab,  oysters  and  fish.  Cover  and  simmer  an  additional  15  minutes. 

Judy  Ranson 


I  02  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Roasting  fresh  Poblano 
chili  peppers: 

Place  peppers  on  a  baking 
sheet  and  set  under  pre- 
heated broiler  4  to  6 
inches  from  heat  source. 
Chilies  are  roasted  when 
the  skins  are  blistered  and 
charred,  even  blackened 
in  some  places.  Take 
care,  however,  not  to 
deeply  burn  the  skin  or 
you  may  damage  the  flesh 
and  make  the  chili  bitter. 
Watch  closely  and  turn 
until  all  sides  are  roasted. 

Immediately  place  roasted 
chilies  in  plastic  bags.  Set 
in  the  freezer  for  about  10 
minutes  to  stop  the 
cooking  process  and 
"steam"  off  the  skins. 
Remove  from  freezer,  peel 
off  skins,  and  remove 
stems  and  seeds. 

Susan  Pollan 


Tortilla  Soup 
Sopa  de  Tortilla 


Serves  Six 


1  tablespoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  oil 

1  large  yellow  onion,  chopped 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

4  fresh  Poblano  chili  peppers, 

roasted  and  peeled 
1  ( 14'  >(>/)  can  Italian  plum 

tomatoes 
1  cup  tomato  sauce 


4  to  5  cups  chicken  broth 

1  teaspoon  ground  chili  powder 

lA  teaspoon  leaf  oregano 

1  teaspoon  ground  cumin 

1  teaspoon  salt  or  to  taste 

Vi  cup  fresh  cilantro,  minced 

12  ounces  Monterey  Jack  cheese 

6  corn  tortillas 

Oil  for  frying  tortillas 


Heat  butter  and  oil  in  large  soup  pot  and  lightly  saute  onions  and  garlic. 
Remove  seeds  and  stems  from  chilies  and  slice  into  narrow  strips.  Add 
chilies,  tomatoes,  tomato  sauce,  chicken  broth,  chili  powder,  oregano, 
cumin  and  salt  to  pot.  Stir  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  15 
to  20  minutes.  Stir  minced  cilantro  into  soup.  Grate  cheese  and  set  aside. 

Cut  tortillas  into  '/2-inch  by  2-inch  strips  and  separate  into  5  or  6  batches. 
Fry  each  batch  until  crisp  in  2  inches  of  oil  heated  to  375  degrees.  Drain  on 
paper  towels. 

The  soup  may  be  prepared  early  in  the  day  to  this  point.  To  assemble  at 
serving  time,  bring  the  soup  to  a  boil.  Place  a  handful  of  crisp  tortilla  strips 
into  each  of  6  ovenproof  serving  bowls  or  a  single  large  bowl.  Pour  the 
soup  into  the  bowls  and  top  with  a  generous  amount  of  grated  cheese.  Place 
the  bowls  on  a  large  baking  sheet  and  immediately  place  under  a  preheated 
broiler  about  4  inches  from  the  heat  source  to  melt  and  lightly  brown  the 
cheese.  Serve  immediately. 

/  typically  add  chicken  to  this  soup  to  make  it  a  complete  meal.  Serve  with 
a  green  salad.   This  soup  is  delicious 

Susan  Pollan 


Soups  and  Sandwiches   103 


Spinach  Soup 


1  package  frozen  chopped  spinach 
3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  teaspoons  chopped  onion 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

V/i  tablespoons  chicken  stock 
1  cup  boiling  water 


1  cup  milk 

1  cup  cream 

Pepper 

%  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Parmesan  cheese,  grated 


Cook  spinach  according  to  directions.  Drain  thoroughly.  In  blender,  put 
spinach,  butter,  onion,  lemon  juice,  chicken  stock  and  boiling  water  and 
blend  thoroughly.  Add  milk,  cream,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Heat  all 
ingredients  on  low  heat,  stirring  frequently.  Serve  hot,  topped  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

Jan  Stedman 

Curried  Squash  Soup 

Yields  4  Caps 


2  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  to  2  teaspoons  curry  powder, 

to  taste 
1 '  •  pounds  butternut  squash, 

peeled,  seeded  and  diced 


1  large  tart  apple,  peeled,  cored 

and  chopped 
3  cups  chicken  broth 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Seasoned  croutons  for  garnish 


Melt  butter  in  large  pot.  Add  onion  and  curry,  blending  well.  Saute  until 
onion  is  tender,  about  5  minutes.  Stir  in  squash,  apples  and  broth.  Cover 
pot,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  25  minutes,  or  until  squash  is  tender,  stirring 
occasionally.  Process  soup  in  a  blender  or  food  processor  to  puree.  Return 
to  pot,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  heat  through.  Garnish  with 
croutons  when  serving.  Refrigerate  or  freeze  unused  portion  up  to  1  month. 

Emily  Booth 


1 04  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


4  tablespoons  unsalted  butter 
2  onions,  thinly  sliced 

1  carrot,  chopped 

5  cloves  garlic,  minced 

2  (35-oz)  cans  plum  tomatoes, 
with  juice 


8  large  fresh  basil  leaves,  slivered 

Pinch  of  sugar 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

4  cups  canned  chicken  broth 

V*  teaspoon  allspice 

2  cups  heavy  or  whipping  cream 


Melt  butter  in  a  large  soup  pot.  Add  onions,  carrot  and  garlic.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  about  10  minutes  until  vegetables  are  wilted.  Add  tomatoes 
and  their  juice,  basil,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  for  5  minutes.  Add 
chicken  broth  and  allspice.  Slowly  bring  soup  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat, 
partially  cover  and  simmer  for  50  minutes.  Puree  the  soup  in  batches  in  a 
food  processor  or  blender.  Return  to  pot.  Add  cream,  adjust  the  seasonings 
and  heat  through. 

Coco  Killian 

Tortellini  Soup 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


4  (141/z-oz)  cans  chicken  broth 
1  (14/4-oz)  can  diced  tomatoes, 
undrained 

1  bunch  green  onions,  chopped 

2  teaspoons  minced  fresh  basil 

or  1  teaspoon  dried  basil 


2  garlic  cloves,  minced 
2  (9-oz)  packages  or  1  family 
size  package  refrigerated 
cheese-filled  tortellini 
Parmesan  cheese,  grated 


Bring  broth  to  a  boil  in  a  large  saucepan  over  medium-high  heat.  Add 
tomatoes,  onions,  basil  and  garlic  and  simmer  for  10  minutes.  Bring  to  a 
second  boil  and  add  tortellini.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  10  minutes.  To 
serve,  garnish  with  Parmesan  cheese.  May  substitute  garlic  chicken  broth 
and  omit  garlic  cloves. 

Cambey  Gallagher 


Soups  and  Sandwiches   105 


My  grandparents  were  founding 
members  ofMPPC,  and  my 
family  has  always  felt  a  special 
attachment  to  this  church. 
When  I  was  growing  up,  the 
church  offered  a  Christmas 
dinner  and  craft  workshop. 
After  dinner  in  the  Fellowship 
Hall,  craft  stations  were  set  up 
in  the  hall  and  classrooms. 
That  evening  was  always  one  of 
my  favorite  family  Christmas 
activities.   One  year  on  the  way 
into  the  church,  I  saw  white 
lights  flying  across  the  sky  with 
a  red  light  in  the  lead.  I  felt  a 
tingle  of  excitement  pulse 
through  me;  I  knew  it  was  Santa 
Claus,  and  1  still  wonder  if  it 
might  have  been.   That  evening  I 
made  a  felt-backed  ornament 
with  a  picture  of  Mary  and  the 
baby  Jesus  on  the  front  and  a 
painted  blue  and  yellow  angel 
ornament.   These  ornaments 
hang  on  my  parents '  tree  to  this 
day,  always  reminding  me  of  the 
magic  surrounding  the  holiday 
and  the  real  meaning  of  the 
celebration. 

Mary  Fin  ley  Whittaker 


Turkey  Chowder 


1  turkey  carcass 
4  quarts  water 
1  cup  butter 

1  cup  flour 

3  onions,  diced 

2  large  carrots,  diced 


2  stalks  celery,  diced 

1  cup  long-grain  rice,  uncooked 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper 
2  cups  half-and-half 


Simmer  turkey  carcass  in  water  for  1  hour.  Remove  meat  from  the  bones 
and  set  aside.  Measure  3  quarts  of  the  broth  and  set  aside.  Melt  butter  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  add  flour  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  for  5  minutes.  Stir  in 
onions,  carrots  and  celery.  Cook  over  medium  heat  for  1 0  minutes.  Add 
turkey,  reserved  broth,  rice,  salt  and  pepper  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Cover, 
reduce  heat  and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Add  half-and-half  and  cook  until 
heated. 

This  is  a  great  way  to  use  left  over  turkey. 

Cindy  Augustine,  staff 


Just  Vegetable  Soup 

Yields  16  Cups 


2  (28-o/)  cans  diced  tomatoes 
2  cans  tomato  soup 
2  soup  cans  water 
1  (16-oz)  package  frozen  corn 
1  (16-oz)  package  frozen  lima 
beans 


1  (16-oz)  package  frozen  green 
beans 

2  teaspoons  salt,  or  to  taste 

%  teaspoon  pepper,  or  to  taste 
1  teaspoon  marjoram 
1  teaspoon  basil 


Bring  diced  tomatoes,  soup  and  water  to  a  boil  in  a  large  stockpot.  Add 
frozen  vegetables.  Return  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  for  30 
minutes.  Add  spices.  Simmer  20  minutes  more. 


Sometimes  I  add  leftover  chopped  roast  beef. 


Lou  Self 


1 06  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Mom's  Vegetable  Soup 

Yields  5  Quarts 

Stew  beef  3  to  4  potatoes,  peeled  and 

2  onions,  chopped,  divided  chopped 

3  cans  tomatoes  3  cubes  beef  bouillon 

1  can  tomato  soup  Thyme,  oregano,  marjoram,  bay 

l'/4  cups  sliced  carrots  leaves  to  taste 

1  small  can  corn  2  tablespoons  salt 

1  can  green  beans  Pepper  to  taste 
1/4  cups  chopped  celery 

Place  stew  beef  in  Dutch  oven.  Cover  with  water.  Bring  to  boil,  then 
reduce  heat.  Add  1  small  chopped  onion.  Simmer  about  1  hour  until  beef 
is  tender.  Add  remaining  onion  and  next  8  ingredients.  Cook  30  minutes. 
Add  seasonings  and  cook  slowly  for  2  hours  or  more.  This  soup  is  even 
better  the  second  day. 

This  is  my  grandmother  and  mother 's  recipe.   My  mother  made  this 

soup  often  when  we  were  growing  up.  It  tasted  especially  good 

when  we  were  sick  and  seemed  to  insure  a  hasty  recovery. 

Marcy  Choate 

VlCHYSSOISE 

3  to  4  cups  peeled,  sliced  potatoes         1  tablespoon  dried  chicken  bouillon 

3  cups  sliced  yellow  onions  1  tablespoon  sea  salt 

4  cups  water  1  cup  half-and-half  or  milk 

Simmer  potatoes,  onions,  water,  bouillon  and  salt.  Strain  and  puree 
vegetables  in  blender.  Save  liquid.  Add  2  cups  or  less  liquid  to  vegetables. 
Add  cream  and  more  salt.  Chill.  To  serve,  garnish  with  fresh  chives. 

This  recipe  was  my  mom  's  and  a  summer  did  not  go  by  without  her  making 
it  often  to  get  us  through  the  long  hot  days  of  summertime! 

Kelly  Brannon 
Soups  and  Sandwiches   107 


Aunt  Bernice's  Chunky  Sandwich 
Spread 


3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 
1  cup  pecans  or  walnuts, 

finely  chopped 
%  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  pepper 


8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
'A  cup  chopped  onion 
'A  cup  chopped  green  pepper 
3  teaspoons  chopped  pimiento, 

drained 
3  teaspoons  ketchup 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  listed. 


This  is  a  wonderful  and  mysterious  spread  and  makes  a  beautiful  tea 
sandwich.  It  'sfun  to  listen  to  people  trying  to  guess  what  is  in  it. 

Donna  Smart 

Minted  Cucumber  Tea  Sandwiches 

Yields  32  Sandwiches 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

Vi  teaspoon  Dijon  mustard 

2  tablespoon  fresh  lemon  juice 
3A  cup  fresh  mint  leaves, 

loosely  packed 


1  large  or  2  small  cucumbers, 
peeled  and  thinly  sliced 

16  slices  thin  white  bread, 
crusts  trimmed 


In  a  blender  or  food  processor,  combine  mayonnaise,  mustard,  lemon  juice 
and  mint.  Spread  each  slice  of  bread  with  mayonnaise  mixture.  Arrange  an 
even  layer  of  cucumber  slices  on  8  bread  slices.  Top  each  with  remaining 
bread  slices.  Cut  each  sandwich  into  quarters. 

These  sandwiches  were  a  favorite  of  Peter  Hemy  's  and  were  made  for  his 
wedding  reception. 

Helen  PeeiT 


1 08  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Pimento 
Cheese 

1  pound  New  York  sharp 

cheese 
1  (4-o/)  jar  pimentos 
1  (8-oz)  jar  sweet  pickles 
1  medium  onion 
3  hard-boiled  eggs 
Vi  to  1  cup  mayonnaise 
Salt  to  taste 

Put  first  5  ingredients  in  food 
processor.  Add  mayonnaise 
and  salt  to  taste.  Allow 
flavors  to  blend  before 

serving. 

Delightfully  different 

sandwich  spread.  Also  good 

as  a  snack  on  crackers. 

Kathy  Gate/y 


Pimento  Cheese 

Yields  2  Cups 


Vi  pound  extra  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese,  grated 
1 ' •;  small  jars  chopped  pimento 

with  juice 
Dash  of  red  and  black  pepper 
2  tablespoons  grated  onion 


1  Vi  teaspoons  fresh  parsley 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Dash  of  Cavender's  Greek 

seasoning  or  Tony  Chachera 

hot  sauce 
Hellmann's  mayonnaise 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  very  well.  Add  mayonnaise  to  taste  and  for 
spreading  consistency. 

Bev  MacBain 

Ham  and  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Serves  Two 


4  slices  white  bread 

2  slices  baked  ham 

4  slices  Muenster  cheese 

legg 

'A  cup  milk 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  margarine 

1  tablespoon  oil 


Sauce: 

2  tablespoons  margarine 
2  tablespoons  flour 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 
Vi  cup  milk 
'A  cup  white  wine 


Make  sandwiches  using  2  slices  bread,  1  slice  ham  and  2  slices  cheese  per 
sandwich.  Mix  together  egg,  'A  cup  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  sandwiches 
in  egg  mixture.    Brown  sandwiches  in  1  tablespoon  margarine  and  1 
tablespoon  oil.  Remove  from  pan  and  place  in  baking  dish.    Mix  sauce 
ingredients  together,  adding  wine  after  mixture  thickens.  Pour  sauce  over 
sandwiches  and  broil  until  bubbly. 

Louise  Hull 


Soups  and  Sandwiches   109 


Champagne 
Mustard 

2/4  ounces  dry  mustard 

(2  small  containers) 
1  cup  tarragon  vinegar 
3  eggs,  beaten 
}A  cup  sugar 

Mix  mustard  and  vinegar. 
Let  stand  overnight.  Mix 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar  and 
add  to  mustard  and  vinegar 
mixture.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  at  medium  heat  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Refrigerate. 

Chris  Kirkland 


Grilled  Portabella  Mushrooms 

Serves  Four 


1  package  sliced  Portabella 
mushrooms 

Marinade: 
3  ounces  extra  virgin  olive  oil 
2  ounces  balsamic  vinegar 


1  small  onion,  chopped 

1  clove  garlic,  chopped 

1  teaspoon  fresh  basil,  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Mix  marinade  ingredients  together.  Place  mushrooms  in  a  zip-lock  bag,  add 
marinade,  and  let  sit  for  at  least  1  hour.  Grill  10  to  15  minutes  until  tender 
or  broil  in  oven.  Wonderful  as  a  side  dish  with  steak  or  in  a  sandwich. 

This  makes  a  great  sandwich  with  marinated  mushrooms,  onion  slice,  Swiss 
cheese,  lettuce,  tomato,  and  mayo.   Use  a  toasted  hamburger  roll. 

Beth  Neale 

Portabella  Fajitas 


Serves  Four 


2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  package  sliced  Portabella 

mushrooms 
1  green  pepper,  sliced 
1  medium  onion,  sliced 
Soft  flour  tortillas 


Shredded  lettuce 
Chopped  tomatoes 
Shredded  Cheddar  cheese 
Sour  Cream 
Salsa 


In  large  skillet,  saute  mushrooms,  green  pepper  and  onion  in  oil  until  soft, 
about  5  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Wrap  in  warm  tortilla  with 
shredded  lettuce,  chopped  tomatoes,  shredded  cheese,  sour  cream  and  salsa. 


Easy  for  lunch! 


Cathy  Bradford 


1 0  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Mom's  Mayo 

Yields  About  1  Cup 

legg 

2  tablespoons  fresh  lemon 

juice 
Vi  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Vt  to  1  cup  vegetable  or 

safflower  oil,  divided 

Put  egg,  lemon  juice, 
mustard,  salt,  and  Va  cup  oil 
into  blender.  Blend  briefly. 
Continue  to  add  oil  by  thin 
stream  or  small  amounts  to 
mixture  until  thick.  For 
variety  add  fresh  or  dried  dill 
or  dried  basil. 

Easy  and  so  simple. 

Fabulous  with  fresh  turkey 

sandwiches. 

Kathy  Howe 


Apricot  Nut  Turkey  Salad 
Sandwiches 


Serves  Four 


1  Vi  cups  shredded  turkey  or 

chicken 
%  cup  thinly  sliced  celery 
%  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  chopped  unsalted 

cashews 
2  tablespoons  chopped  dried 
apricots 


2  tablespoons  green  onions 

2  tablespoons  raisins 

2  tablespoons  plain  low-fat  yogurt 

%  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Lettuce  leaves 

8  slices  pumpernickel  bread 


Combine  ingredients,  except  lettuce  and  bread,  in  bowl.  Mix  well.  Place  a 
lettuce  leaf  on  each  of  4  bread  slices.  Spread  lA  cup  turkey  salad  over 
lettuce.  Top  with  remaining  bread  slices. 

Lvnn  Banks 


* 


* 


The  "Day-Way" 

Serves  Two 


4  slices  homemade-style  white 

bread 
2  slices  Swiss  cheese 
8  thin  slivers  red  pepper 
2  thin  slices  onion 


Thinly  sliced  turkey 
Hot  mustard  (preferably 

Mr.Mustard) 
Lettuce 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cover  2  slices  of  bread  with  Swiss  cheese  and  lightly  toast  in  toaster  oven. 
Spread  remaining  2  slices  of  bread  with  a  thin  coat  of  mustard.  Assemble 
sandwiches  with  remaining  ingredients. 


This  sandwich  is  a  weekend  favorite  of  my  family. 


Day  Peery 


Soups  and  Sandwiches   1 1 1 


Mrs.  Pressly's  Cream 
Cheese  Vegetable  Sandwiches 


Yields  3  Dozen  Parh>  Sandwiches 


8  ounces  cream  cheese 

Vi  cup  finely  chopped  cucumber 

(drain  off  juice) 
%  cup  finely  chopped  celery 
Vi  medium  onion,  grated 


%  cup  finely  chopped  green 

pepper 
1  cup  grated  carrots 
1  to  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
Salt  to  taste 


Mix  together  cream  cheese,  cucumber,  celery,  onion,  green  pepper,  carrots 
and  mayonnaise.  Spread  on  white  or  wheat  sandwich  bread  or  a 
combination  of  the  two.  Cut  off  crusts  and  cut  into  desired  shapes. 

These  sandwiches  are  the  ultimate  summer  treat.   The  Youth  Ministry 

Committee  and  other  volunteers  made  hundreds  for  Peter  and  Shawn 

Henry 's  wedding  reception. 

Helen  Peery 

Crab  meat  Melt-a-Way 


Ser\>es  Six 


1  pound  crabmeat 

1  jar  Old  English  Cheddar  cheese 

%  cup  butter 


1  to  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
6  English  Muffins,  split 


Pick  through  crabmeat  to  clean.  Mix  cheese,  butter  and  mayonnaise  until 
smooth.  Mix  with  crabmeat.  Spread  on  Vi  English  Muffin.  Broil  for  20 
minutes  until  bubbly  and  brown.  May  be  made  ahead  and  frozen  if  desired. 

Gail  Brinn  Wilkins 


112  Soups  and  Sandwiches 


Grilled  Salmon  Sandwich 

Serves  Four 

2  tablespoons  dry  mustard  4  (6-ounce)  salmon  fillets 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  Salt  and  freshly  ground  pepper 
1V4  tablespoons  water  Vi  bunch  arugula 

Vi  teaspoon  soy  sauce  4  slices  sour  dough  bread, 

3  teaspoons  olive  oil,  divided  crusts  trimmed 

To  prepare  mustard  sauce,  combine  mustard  and  sugar  in  a  small  bowl.  Stir 
in  water.  Add  soy  sauce  and  1  teaspoon  olive  oil.  Set  aside.  Heat  grill 
until  very  hot.  Brush  salmon  with  remaining  oil  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Grill  salmon  for  5  minutes  or  until  browned.  Turn  and  cook  for  an 
additional  5  minutes,  or  to  desired  doneness.  Heat  small  skillet  over 
medium  heat  and  add  arugula.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover. 
Cook  until  wilted,  tossing  leaves  occasionally,  about  1  Vi  to  2  minutes. 
Toast  bread  and  place  on  plates.  Top  each  with  wilted  arugula  and  a  salmon 
fillet.  Drizzle  mustard  sauce  over  top  of  salmon.  Serve  immediately. 

Flat,  wide  fillets  cut  from  the  tail  of  the  salmon  are  good  selections  for  this 
open  face  sandwich.   Goes  well  with  cole  slaw  for  a  light  summer  meal. 

Susanne  McGuire 

Shrimp  Spread  for  Sandwiches 

Yields  I V:  Cups 

4  ounces  fresh  or  canned  shrimp,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  finely  chopped 
finely  chopped                                     1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Vi  cup  finely  chopped  celery  Dash  of  lemon  pepper  seasoning 

1  bunch  green  onions  with  tops,  V*  cup  plus  1  tablespoon 

finely  chopped  mayonnaise 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Serve  on  pumpernickel  bread. 

Sloan  White 


Soups  and  Sandwiches   1 1 3 


Lor  $25,000  MPPC  bought  three  acres  on  Burnham  Place,  between 
Providence  and  Queens  Roads,  and  renamed  it  Oxford.  When  the  new  pastor, 
Dr.  Edgar  Gammon,  first  saw  it,  he  said,  "It  is  afield  suitable  only  for 
growing  broom  straw."  (We  wish  he  could  see  it  now!)  MPPC "s  first  elders 
were  Tom  Glasgow  and  Hunter  Marshall;  the  first  deacons  were  Eddie  Jones 
and  John  Tate.  Living  on  Shemvod,  Queens  and  Hopedale,  they  all  could  walk 
to  church,  and  they  had  frequent  meetings.  Tom  Glasgow  taught  the  Men 's 
Bible  Class  for  15  years,  meeting  in  the  Log  Hut  which  had  a  large  fireplace. 
As  he  paced  back  and  forth,  he  tossed  a  page  of  his  lesson  into  the  fire  when 
he  finished  it.  One  Sunday,  "Mr.  Tom  "pitched  his  whole  notebook  into  the  fire 
and  said,  "Gentlemen,  I  won 't  be  teaching  you  next  Sunday.  I  have  taught  you 
all  I  know."  It  was  a  sad  time  at  MPPC  when  sons  of  three  church  officers 
were  killed  during  the  first  year  of  World  War  II:  Hunter  Marshall,  Jr..  Han'ey 
W  Moore,  Jr.,  and  A.  Carl  Lee,  Jr. 

Harriet  Glasgow  White 


Children  s  Choir 


Salads  and  Dressings 


The  Wedding  of  Harriet  Glasgow  and  Hugh  Edward  White  in  1949 


Soon  after  our  family  moved  to 
Charlotte  in  1940,  my  father, 
Clarence  Mc Arthur,  served  as 
Superintendent  of  the  Senior 
High  Sunday  School 
Department.   One  of  his  best 
teachers  was  Maiy  Jones,  wife 
of  our  greatly  respected 
minister,  Jas.  A.  Jones.  Mrs. 
Jones  was  almost  always  late 
for  Sunday  school;  so  one  day 
my  father  detained  her  after 
class.    "Maty,"  he  said,  "1 
blow  that  with  five  children  you 
are  veiy  busy  on  Sunday 
mornings,  but  could  you 
possibly  try  to  get  to  Sunday 
school  on  time?  "  In  her  always 
gracious  manner,  she  answered, 
"Mac,  if  I  don  't  appear  dressed 
within  an  inch  of  my  life,  these 
young  people  just  won 't  listen  to 
me.  "  She  did  try  to  be  on  time 
more  faithfully  after  that,  and  I 
can  still  picture  her  perched  on 
the  teacher 's  desk,  with  legs 
crossed,  looking  always  so 
beautiful,  and  teaching  some  of 
the  most  fascinating,  memorable 
Sunday  school  lessons  of  my 
youth! 

Cassie  Broadwav 


Apple  Cheese  Salad 


Serves  Nine 


1  cup  hot  water 

%  cup  (6-oz)  small  red  cinnamon 

candies 
1  small  package  lemon  Jello 


8  ounces  cream  cheese 
Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 
54  cup  finely  chopped  celery 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 


1/4  cups  unsweetened  applesauce  Lettuce  leaves 

Pour  hot  water  over  candies.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Add  Jello  and  stir  until  it 
completely  dissolves.  Add  applesauce.  Pour  half  the  mixture  into  an  8-inch 
square  pan.  Chill  until  firm.  Blend  cream  cheese,  nuts  and  celery.  Add 
mayonnaise.  Spread  over  firm  apple  mixture.  Add  remaining  apple 
mixture.  Chill  until  firm.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

A  nice  accompaniment  with  Turkey-Ham  Casserole  Supreme. 

Billie  Frazier 

Black  Bing  Cherry  Salad 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  (15-oz)  can  black  Bing  or  dark 

cherries 
'A  cup  sherry 
Water 


1  small  package  cherry  Jello 
Vi  cup  broken  or  chopped  black 
walnuts  or  pecans 


Drain  cherries  and  save  juice.  Add  juice  to  sherry.  Add  water  if  necessary 
to  make  1  cup  cold  liquid.  Stir  1  cup  boiling  water  into  gelatin  until  it  is 
completely  dissolved.  Add  the  combined  juice  and  sherry  and  stir  to  mix. 
Allow  this  to  thicken  in  the  refrigerator.  Combine  cherries  and  nuts.  When 
gelatin  is  partly  thickened,  stir  in  cherries  and  nuts.  Refrigerate  until  firm. 
Use  a  favorite  mold  if  you  wish. 

Ruby  Paul 


1 1 6  Salads  and  Dressings 


Frozen 

Cranberry 

Salad 

Sen>es  Eight 

1  (16-oz)  can  cranberry  sauce 
1  cup  nonfat  plain  yogurt 
1  (8V2-OZ)  can  crushed 
pineapple,  drained 
Vi  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Blend  cranberry  sauce  with 
yogurt.  Fold  in  pineapple 
and  walnuts.  Spoon  into  one 
large  mold,  individual  molds 
or  paper  lined  muffin  tins. 
Cover  with  plastic  wrap  and 
freeze. 

Very  light  and  easy. 

Carol  Crawford 


Polly's  Carrot  Salad 


2  small  packages  lemon  .kilo 

2  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  cold  water 

4  large  carrots,  grated 


1  medium  can  crushed  pineapple, 

undrained 
Vi  cup  finely  chopped  nuts 


Dissolve  Jello  in  boiling  water.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  stir  well. 
Pour  into  individual  molds  and  refrigerate  until  set. 


Harriet  Pharr 


Cranberry  Salad 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


1  pound  fresh  cranberries 

1  large  package  strawberry  Jello 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water 


1  (8-oz)  can  crushed  pineapple, 

undrained 
Juice  of  1  orange 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 


Carefully  sort  and  wash  cranberries.  Grind  finely  and  set  aside.  Dissolve 
Jello  and  sugar  in  water.  Add  cranberries  and  remaining  ingredients.  Stir 
well.  Chill,  stirring  occasionally  until  mixture  is  consistency  of  unbeaten 
egg  white.  Spoon  mixture  into  5-cup  mold.  Chill  until  firm. 

This  recipe  came  from  a  great  little  cookbook,  'Tis  the  Season  to  be 

Cookins.  I  have  taken  this  salad  to  a  couple  of  our  Fellowship  Class 

Christmas  parties  and  have  always  been  asked  to  share  the  recipe. 

Erwin  Mercer 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 1 7 


Cranberry  Salad 


2  small  packages  or  1  large  package 

cherry  or  cranberry  Jello 
1  cup  hot  water 
1  cup  sugar 
1  pound  raw  cranberries 


1  or  2  whole  apples 

1  whole  orange,  peeled 

'A  cup  finely  chopped  pecans 

1  or  2  stalks  celery,  finely  chopped 

'A  cup  crushed  pineapple,  undrained 


Dissolve  Jello  in  hot  water  and  add  sugar.  Grind  cranberries,  apples  and 
orange.  Add  pecans,  celery  and  pineapple.  Mix  together  well  and  chill. 
May  be  served  on  lettuce.  Variations:  Double  amount  of  pecans,  use  two 
oranges,  or  adjust  amount  of  sugar  ('/>  cup  -  more  tart,  2  cups  -  more  sweet). 

Von  Clemans,  Associate  Pastor 

Mandarin  Orange  Rum  Mold 

Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


2  (11-oz)  cans  Mandarin  oranges 
V/i  tablespoons  unflavored  gelatin 
1  small  package  vanilla  pudding 
mix  -  regular  not  instant 


2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  rum  flavoring 
Vi  cup  finely  chopped  nuts 
1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 


Drain  orange  segments  and  reserve  Vi  cup  juice.  In  a  saucepan,  soak  gelatin 
in  orange  juice  for  5  minutes.  Stir  in  pudding  mix  and  milk.  Cook,  stirring 
until  thickened.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  1  cup  orange  segments,  reserving 
rest  for  garnish.  Add  mm  flavoring  and  nuts.  Fold  in  whipped  cream  and 
blend  carefully.  Turn  into  mold  and  chill  until  firm.  Unmold  on  serving 
plate  and  arrange  remaining  orange  segments  on  top  and  around  base. 

/  have  served  this  salad  for  bridge  club.  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas. 
This  is  one  of  the  few  gelatin  salads  that  men  like. 

Mildred  Hoke  Pittman 


1 8  Salads  and  Dressings 


Orange 
Bavarois 

Serves  Six 

Juice  of  3  oranges 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  envelope  plain  gelatin 

1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Mix  juices  (2  cups),  sugar, 
and  gelatin  in  saucepan. 
Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring 
until  gelatin  dissolves.  Cool 
until  thick.  Blend  whipped 
cream  into  mixture.  Spoon 
into  serving  dishes. 
Refrigerate  until  firm. 

Ann  Thomas 


Mandarin  Orange  Salad 


Senses  Six 


1  large  package  orange  Jello 
8  ounces  light  sour  cream 
lA  cup  chopped  pecans 


1  (8-oz)  can  crushed  pineapple 
1  (8-oz)  can  mandarin  oranges 
Water  or  orange  juice 


Drain  fruit,  reserving  juice.  Add  water  or  orange  juice  to  reserved  fruit 
juices  to  make  1  lA  cups  liquid.  Bring  liquid  to  a  boil.  Add  Jello  to  liquid 
and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  sour  cream  and  continue  stirring  until  it 
thickens.  Then  add  pecans,  pineapple  and  mandarin  oranges.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  pour  into  mold.  Refrigerate  overnight. 

Lina  was  an  active  member  of  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church.  Her 

family  submitted  this  recipe  that  Lina  had  selected  for  the  cookbook  before 

her  death  in  July  2000. 

Lina  Hendley  Fair  McGwier 

Strawberry  Pretzel  Salad 


Topping: 

1  large  package  strawberry  Jello 

2  cups  boiling  water 

2  (10-oz)  packages  frozen 
strawberries,  thawed 


Crust: 

2  cups  crushed  pretzels 

Va  cup  melted  margarine 

4  tablespoons  sugar 
Middle  layer: 

8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  Cool  Whip 


Mix  crust  ingredients  and  press  into  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Bake  at  400  degrees 
for  8  minutes.  Mix  cream  cheese  and  sugar.  Fold  in  Cool  Whip.  Spread  on 
cooled  crust.  Mix  Jello  with  boiling  water  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Stir  in 
strawberries.  Chill  until  syrupy.  Pour  over  middle  layer  and  chill  until  set. 

This  has  become  a  "must" for  traditional  holiday  dinners. 

Charlene  Smith 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 1 9 


Mother's  aspic  was  a  special 
part  of  holidays  and  company 
dinners.  She  always  took  it 
to  covered  dish  dinners  at 
their  Carlton  condo  parties, 
and  Dad  continued  to  take  it 
after  her  death.  He  had  me 
make  it  several  times  for  him 
and  then,  much  to  everyone 's 
surprise,  he  learned  to  make 
it  himself  and  was  so  proud! 

Bettv  Dale  Presslv  Archer 


Barbecue  Salad 

Serves  Eight  to  Twelve 


2  small  packages  lemon  or 

orange  Jello 
2Vi  cups  hot  water 

2  (8-oz)  cans  tomato  sauce 

3  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 


1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  horseradish 
Dash  pepper 

Celery  seeds 
Parsley  flakes 


Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  hot  water.  Add  tomato  sauce  and  other  ingredients. 
Blend.  Pour  into  molds  or  a  9x9-inch  baking  dish,  and  chill  until  firm. 
Place  on  crisp  salad  greens  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

This  is  a  tried  and  true  recipe  from  Betty  Feezor.  popular  hostess  of  a 

WBTV  show  for  24  years.  I  have  added  things  that  she  said  would  make  it 

spicier,  and  I  have  doubled  the  amount  to  yield  8  to  12  servings.  Betty 

called  this  a  very  economical  salad;  I  call  it  a  shocking  tomato  aspic. 

Rebecca  Schenck 

MeMe's  Tomato  Aspic 

Yields  One  (9-inch)  Ring  Mold 


1  large  can  tomato  juice 
1  large  onion,  quartered 
3  stalks  celery,  with  leaf  tips 

1  teaspoon  whole  cloves 

2  teaspoons  vinegar 


Juice  of  Vi  lemon 

■4  cup  water 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

lA  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

3  small  packages  lemon  Jello 


In  a  large  saucepan,  combine  tomato  juice,  onion  quarters,  cloves,  vinegar, 
lemon  juice  and  water.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Bring 
to  a  boil,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Strain  mixture  through  fine 
sieve,  removing  cloves  and  vegetables.  Add  hot  water  to  mixture  if 
necessary  to  make  5Vi  cups,  and  then  add  Jello.  Stir  thoroughly  until  Jello 
is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Pour  into  ring  mold  or  individual  molds. 

Bettv  Dale  Presslv  Archer 


1 20  Salads  and  Dressings 


Tomato  Aspic 

1  (46-oz)  can  V-8  juice  2  or  3  bay  leaves 

V/i  tablespoons  chopped  onion  3  envelopes  Knox  gelatin 

%  teaspoon  celery  seed  Water 

Ground  cloves  (equivalent  Vegetables: 

of  about  5  whole  cloves)  %  cup  chopped  celery 

2'/2  teaspoons  salt  %  cup  chopped  bell  pepper 

VA  teaspoons  sugar  %  cup  chopped  green  onions, 

Healthy  dash  of  Tabasco  sauce  tops  and  bottoms 

Freshly  ground  black  pepper  Vi  cup  chopped  cucumber 

Celery  tops  with  leaves  54  cup  thinly  sliced  green  olives 

In  a  saucepan,  combine  first  10  ingredients  and  bring  to  boil.  Reduce  heat 
and  simmer  10  to  15  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  remove  celery  tops 
and  bay  leaves.  While  juice  mixture  is  heating,  put  gelatin  in  small  bowl 
and  pour  Vt  cup  of  cold  water  over  it.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes;  pour  3A  cup 
boiling  water  over  moistened  gelatin.  Stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved. 
Combine  gelatin  and  juice  mixture  and  stir  well.  Pour  mixture  into  a  9x1 1- 
inch  glass  baking  dish  and  refrigerate.  Check  mixture  occasionally  and, 
when  it  begins  to  thicken,  stir  in  at  least  3  cups  of  the  finely  chopped  or 
sliced  vegetables.  Refrigerate  until  firm.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut  into 
squares  and  top  with  a  small  dollop  of  mayonnaise  and  a  slice  of  olive. 
Cover  dish  with  plastic  wrap  and  it  will  keep  in  the  refrigerator  for  3  or  4 
days  without  drying  out. 

This  salad  is  a  winner.  It  is  well  worth  the  time  required  to  make  it. 
Without  the  Tabasco  and  black  pepper,  the  taste  will  be  flat. 

McDaniel  (Mac)  Jackson 

*i*      *i*      *i*      *i*      t 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 2 1 


Marinated 
asparagus 

Serves  Four  to  Eight 

Vi  cup  granulated  sugar 
'A  cup  apple  cider  vinegar 
lA  cup  vegetable  oil 
2  cans  whole  asparagus 
spears,  drained 

In  a  1 -quart  saucepan,  heat 
vegetable  oil  and  vinegar. 
When  warm,  add  sugar, 
stirring  until  dissolved. 
Remove  from  heat  and  pour 
over  asparagus.  Store  in 
refrigerator  at  least  1  hour  or 
up  to  3  days. 

Dormie  Dougherty 


Broccoli  Salad 


Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 


2  bunches  broccoli  (8  cups  florets) 
10  slices  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
1  large  red  onion 
Vi  cup  dark  raisins 


1  cup  mayonnaise 
%  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  cider  vinegar 

Vi  cup  sunflower  seeds,  toasted 


Cut  broccoli  florets  into  bite-size  pieces.  Slice  onion  lengthwise  and  then 
into  julienne  strips.  Combine  broccoli,  onion  strips,  raisins  and  crumbled 
bacon.  Whisk  together  mayonnaise,  sugar  and  vinegar.  Combine  dressing 
with  broccoli  mixture.  Fold  in  sunflower  seeds.  Refrigerate  at  least  2  hours 
before  serving. 

This  is  a  family  favorite.  Everyone  always  wants  this  recipe. 

Jean  Muhleman 

Broccoli  and  Cauliflower  Salad 


Serves  Eight 


1  package  Ranch  dressing 
1  bunch  fresh  broccoli,  cut  in 

florets 
1  head  fresh  cauliflower,  cut  in 

sections 


1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 
4  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 
1  pound  bacon,  cooked  and 
crumbled 


Mix  Ranch  dressing  according  to  package  directions.  Be  sure  to  let 
dressing  "set  up"  before  you  stir  into  other  ingredients.  Mix  together 
broccoli,  cauliflower  and  water  chestnuts.  Add  dressing.  Just  before 
serving,  add  crumbled  bacon  and  eggs. 

Melinda  Finch  Adkins 


1 22  Salads  and  Dressings 


Marinated 
Broccoli 

3  bunches  broccoli 
1  cup  cider  vinegar 
1  tablespoon  sugar 
1  tablespoon  dill 
VA  teaspoons  salt 
1  teaspoon  pepper 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 
V/i  cups  vegetable  oil 

Cut  broccoli  into  bite-size 
pieces.  Mix  remaining 
ingredients  well  and  pour 
over  broccoli.  Cover  and 
refrigerate  for  24  hours, 
basting  occasionally.  Drain 
and  serve. 

Doris  Petersen 


Fresh  Corn  Salad 


3  cups  cooked  corn  (6  ears) 

1  large  onion,  chopped 

2  medium  zucchini,  cubed 

1  bunch  green  onions,  sliced 
1  red  pepper,  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  chopped 
Vt  cup  minced  fresh  parsley 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 


'A  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  pepper 
2  teaspoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  ground  cumin 

2  teaspoons  Dijon  mustard 
Vi  teaspoon  hot  sauce 

Vi  cup  vegetable  oil 
%  cup  white  vinegar 


Cook  corn  and  remove  from  cob.  Combine  corn  and  next  6  ingredients. 
Set  aside.  Combine  garlic  and  remaining  ingredients  to  make  marinade. 
Toss  with  corn  mixture.  Chill  until  ready  to  serve. 


//  is  better  to  make  this  a  day  ahead. 

CORNBREAD  SALAD 


Kim  LeNeave 


1  box  Jiffy  cornbread  mix, 
cooked,  cooled  and  crumbled 

1  bell  pepper,  chopped 

1  onion,  chopped 

1  can  pinto  beans,  rinsed  and 
drained 

Vi  cup  bacon  bits 


3A  cup  sweet  pickles,  drained, 

reserving  juice 
1  small  can  whole  kernel  corn 
Vi  cup  grated  cheese 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  tomato,  chopped 


Combine  first  8  ingredients.  Mix  together  mayonnaise,  lA  cup  pickle  juice 
and  sugar.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  dressing  over  all.  Garnish  with 
chopped  tomato. 

Porter  Hayes,  staff 


Salads  and  Dressings    1 23 


Festive  Cornbread  Salad 


Sen'es  Eight  to  Ten 


2  boxes  Jiffy  cornbread  mix 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  (11-oz)  can  Green  Giant 

Mexicorn 
%  cup  chopped  pecans 
3A  cup  chopped  green  onions 


2  celery  stalks,  chopped 
1  large  red  pepper,  chopped 

1  (4-oz)  jar  chopped  pimentos 

2  large  tomatoes,  diced 

Wi  cups  mayonnaise  (more  or 
less  to  taste) 


Prepare  cornbread  mix  according  to  package  directions.  Add  sugar  and 
corn.  Spoon  into  muffin  tin.  Bake  as  directed  and  cool.  Crumble 
cornbread  in  bowl.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  stir  well.  Chill  about  2 
to  3  hours  before  serving. 

/  keep  2  muffins  aside  and  crumble  into  salad  just  before  serving. 

Janet  Allen 

Baked  Goat  Cheese  Salad 


Serves  Four 


4  slices  fresh  goat  cheese,  Vi  inch 

thick 
Vz  cup  olive  oil 
Sprig  of  fresh  thyme 


%  cup  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs 
1  teaspoon  dried  thyme 
Lettuce  leaves 
Vinaigrette  dressing 


Marinate  goat  cheese  in  olive  oil  with  thyme  sprig  overnight.  Mix  bread 
crumbs  with  dried  thyme.  Dredge  cheese  slices  in  breadcrumbs,  covering 
well.  Place  on  baking  sheet  and  bake  at  400  degrees  for  5  minutes  until 
cheese  starts  to  bubble.  Toss  lettuce  with  vinaigrette  dressing  of  your 
choice  and  place  on  salad  plates.  Lay  goat  cheese  slices  on  top.  Serve 
immediately. 

Puukin  Brookshire 


1 24  Salads  and  Dressings 


Caesar  Salad 

1  head  Romaine  lettuce 
Large  seasoned  Caesar 

croutons 
Parmesan  cheese,  freshly 

grated 
Dressing: 

2  or  3  cloves  garlic,  minced 

'A  cup  olive  oil 

'/>  cup  red  wine  vinegar 

1  heaping  teaspoon  grainy 
brown  mustard 

Juice  of  Vi  lemon 

Wash  lettuce  and  set  aside. 
Rub  minced  garlic  around 
salad  bowl.  Combine  olive 
oil,  vinegar,  mustard  and 
lemon  juice  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Combine  lettuce 
and  croutons  in  bowl  with 
garlic.  Add  dressing,  toss 
well  and  sprinkle  with 
Parmesan  to  taste. 

Stacey  Chapman 


Bok  Choy  Salad 


1  stalk  Bok  Choy  or  Napa 

cabbage,  chopped 
1  bunch  scallions,  chopped 

1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts, 

drained 

2  packages  Ramen  noodles 

(discard  spice  packet) 


Vi  cup  raw  sunflower  seeds 
Vi  cup  slivered  almonds 
Dressing: 

'A  cup  Canola  oil 

'A  cup  cider  vinegar 

'A  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lite  soy  sauce 


Combine  cabbage,  scallions  and  water  chestnuts  in  salad  bowl.  Roast 
noodles,  sunflower  seeds  and  slivered  almonds  on  baking  sheet  sprayed 
with  Pam.  Mix  dressing  ingredients  and  pour  over  salad  mixture.  Marinate 
for  1  hour.  Add  roasted  ingredients  just  before  serving. 

Easy!  I  make  this  salad  for  nearly  every  get-together  and  always 

have  requests  for  the  recipe.   You  can  roast  the  noodle  mixture 

and  make  the  dressing  in  advance. 


Cindy  Vaughn 


Crunchy  Cabbage  Salad 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


Vi  head  cabbage,  shredded 
4  green  onions,  sliced 

1  package  chicken-flavored 

Ramen  noodles,  crushed 
Vi  cup  slivered  almonds,  toasted 

2  tablespoons  sesame  seeds, 

toasted 


Dressing: 
Vi  package  chicken  seasoning 

from  noodles 
lA  cup  vinegar 
2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Vz  cup  oil 
Vi  teaspoon  pepper 


Mix  cabbage  and  onions  together.  Thoroughly  blend  dressing  ingredients. 
Toss  dressing  with  cabbage  and  refrigerate.  Before  serving,  add  noodles, 
almonds  and  sesame  seeds  and  toss  together. 

Man'  Kellv 


Salads  and  Dressings   125 


My  memories  of  1941  include 
getting  in  a  mudball  fight  at  age 
11  with  the  likes  of  Martin 
Waters,  John  Wilson  and 
Freeman  Jones,  all  age  14,  at 
the  site  of  the  first  MP  PC 
addition  (Education  Building), 
and  a  resulting  injured  eye  with 
a  stay  in  Charlotte  Eye,  Ear, 
Nose  &  Throat  Hospital  for  a 
few  days.   We  Pioneer  "men  " 
(grades  7-9)  discovered  that  by 
sliding  our  leather-soled  shoes 
on  the  tightly  woven  synthetic 
carpet  in  the  hall  of  the  new 
building,  we  could  become 
"electrified"  and  release  a 
spark  by  touching  the  ear  lobe 
of  a  friend  or  unsuspecting 
female.   We  learned  of  an  attack 
on  our  country  on  December  7, 
1941,  and  later  I  learned  that 
the  baptism  of  Martha 
McDonald  after  church  that 
same  Sunday  was  attended  by 
one  Lillian  ( "Dee  Dee") 
Lineberger.   Too  bad  I  didn  't 
know  her  ear  was  available. 
Prior  to  1942:  Wednesday  night 
prayer  meetings  in  the  Hut  - 
zzzzzz!  Reciting  the  Shorter 
Catechism  to  Mr.  Tom  Glasgow 
was  scary!  And  I  remember  Mr. 
Charlie  Ross  counting  the  roll 
and  the  money  from  Sunday 
school  in  the  open  office  behind 
the  sanctuaiy. 

H.  W.  ("Peter")  McKay,  Jr. 


Caesar  Salad 


Serves  Six 


2  large  heads  Romaine  lettuce 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

4  anchovy  fillets,  drained  and 

chopped  finely 
lA  teaspoon  oil  from  anchovy  can 
1  large  pasteurized  egg  at  room 

temperature 
4  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice 


lA  cup  olive  oil 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  teaspoons  prepared  mustard 

(optional) 
1  cup  freshly  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 
Freshly  ground  pepper  to  taste 
3A  cup  croutons 


Wash  and  drain  lettuce  and  tear  into  bite-size  pieces.  In  large  salad  bowl, 
mix  the  garlic  with  anchovies  until  it  makes  a  paste.  Add  anchovy  oil.  In 
small  bowl,  beat  egg  and  add  lemon  juice.  Worcestershire  sauce,  olive  oil 
and  mustard.  Mix  well  and  add  to  anchovy  mixture  in  salad  bowl.  Cover 
bowl  and  let  dressing  stand  at  room  temperature.  To  serve,  add  lettuce  to 
salad  bowl  and  toss  with  dressing.  Add  cheese,  pepper  and  croutons  and 
toss  thoroughly. 

This  salad  is  the  one  our  kids  all  love  to  have  Tim  make 
whenever  they  come  home. 

Margaret  and  Tim  Croft,  Former  Pastor 


126  Salads  and  Dressings 


My  cousin,  Letty  McDonald 
Stoneman,  and  1  were  baptized 
at  Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church  after  the  worship 
sen'ice  on  December  7,  1941, 
about  the  same  time  that  Pearl 
Harbor  was  being  bombed.   Of 
course,  we  don't  "remember" 
much  about  it,  but  we  have  been 
told  that  people  were  hurrying 
out  of  the  church  to  listen  to  the 
news  on  their  car  radios! 

Martha  McDonald  Robinson 


Green  Pea  Salad 


1  head  lettuce,  torn  into  pieces 
V>  cup  sugar  or  5  packages  of 

Sweet  'n  Low 
6  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 
1  cup  frozen  green  peas,  thawed 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  cups  grated  Swiss  cheese 


1  pound  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
1  ounce  blue  cheese,  crumbled 
Salt  and  pepper 
Paprika 
Sliced  purple  onion  (optional) 


Place  lettuce  in  glass  salad  bowl  or  large  glass  shallow  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  or  Sweet  'n  Low.  Top  with  sliced  eggs  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  green  peas  and  cover  all  with  half  of  the 
mayonnaise.  Top  with  Swiss  cheese,  crumbled  bacon,  and  blue  cheese. 
Spread  remaining  mayonnaise  over  all,  covering  top  to  edges.  Sprinkle 
with  paprika  and  decorate  with  slices  of  purple  onion,  if  desired.  Cover 
with  plastic  wrap  and  refrigerate  overnight  or  until  chilled. 

Becky  Mauney 

Salad  with  Apple  and  Blue  Cheese 

Sen'es  Six 


Lettuce  -  use  a  variety  -  the 
equivalent  of  1  large  head 

4  ounces  blue  cheese,  crumbled 

2  large  Granny  Smith  apples, 
thinly  sliced 

8  spring  onions,  thinly  sliced 


'A  cup  pine  nuts,  toasted 

Dressing: 

%  cup  raspberry  vinegar 
2  tablespoons  maple  syrup 
Vi  cup  oil 


Mix  salad  ingredients  in  large  salad  bowl.  Combine  dressing  ingredients  in 
blender.  Pour  dressing  over  salad  and  toss  gently  when  ready  to  serve. 

Betty  Cowden 


Salads  and  Dressings   127 


Red  Leaf  and  Pear  Salad 


Serves  Six 


1  head  red  leaf  lettuce,  torn 

1  to  1  'A  ripe  red  pears 

'/2  cup  pine  nuts,  toasted 

Vi  cup  Feta  cheese,  crumbled 

Vi  cup  broccoli,  cut  in  small  pieces 

Croutons 


Dressing: 

Yz  cup  raspberry  vinegar 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  vegetable  oil 

1  tablespoon  Dijon  mustard 

1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

1  teaspoon  salt 


Combine  dressing  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Store  in  jar  in  refrigerator 
(keeps  1  to  2  weeks).  Tear  lettuce  into  bite-size  pieces  and  put  in  large 
salad  bowl.  Add  broccoli  pieces,  chopped  pears,  and  other  salad 
ingredients.  Add  dressing  to  taste.  Toss  and  serve. 


Favorite  salad  ever! 

Seven  Layer  Salad 


Jeanie  Fox 


Serves  Six  or  More 


Vi  to  1  head  of  lettuce,  cut  up 

Vt  cup  sliced  celery 

1  package  frozen  garden  peas, 

thawed  on  paper  towels 
6  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 


8  slices  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
Purple  onion,  sliced 
Hellmann's  mayonnaise 
Swiss  cheese,  grated 


Layer  first  5  ingredients  in  large  glass  salad  bowl.  End  with  another  layer 
of  lettuce.  Top  with  sliced  onion.  Spread  mayonnaise  to  completely  cover 
top.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  top.  Refrigerate  overnight  for  seasoning. 


Great  for  luncheons,  parties  or  family  picnics. 


Bee  Hubbard 


1 28  Salads  and  Dressings 


Spinach  Salad 

Serves  Ten 

Vz  cup  sour  cream 

%  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  horseradish 

Vi  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

'A  teaspoon  salt 

1  (10-oz)  package  fresh 

spinach,  washed  and 

drained 
12  ounces  small  curd 

cottage  cheese 
'A.  cup  chopped  pecans 

Blend  sour  cream,  sugar, 
vinegar,  horseradish,  dry 
mustard  and  salt  with  mixer. 
Fold  spinach,  cottage  cheese 
and  chopped  pecans  into 
dressing. 

Nancy  Ellis 


Spinach  Salad 

Serves  Eight 


2  bunches  spinach 

Vi  pound  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
Vi  cup  water  chestnuts 
2  tablespoons  sugar 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 


Vi  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
1/4  teaspoons  onion  juice 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

3  tablespoon  cider  vinegar 
'A.  cup  salad  oil 


Wash  spinach,  trim  and  break  into  pieces.  Wrap  in  dishtowel  and  crisp 
overnight  in  refrigerator.  Make  dressing  by  combining  sugar,  salt,  dry 
mustard,  onion  juice,  lemon  juice,  vinegar  and  salad  oil.  Mix  well.  Add 
water  chestnuts  and  let  marinate  until  ready  to  serve.  When  ready  to  serve, 
sprinkle  bacon  over  spinach  and  toss  lightly  with  dressing. 


Joyce  Mclntyre 


Spinach  Salad  and  Dressing 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


2  tablespoons  white  wine  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  vermouth 

2  teaspoons  Dijon  mustard 
1  teaspoon  soy  sauce 

54  teaspoon  curry  powder 

Vi  teaspoon  sugar 

V'j  teaspoon  salt 

'A  teaspoon  freshly  ground  pepper 

Vi  cup  salad  oil 


1  (o  1  "j  pounds  spinach 
Optional: 

1  green  apple,  diced 

'A  cup  dry  roasted  Spanish 

peanuts 
Vi  cup  golden  raisins 
1  bunch  scullions,  chopped 
1  tablespoon  sesame  seeds, 
toasted 


Combine  first  ten  ingredients  in  ajar  and  shake  well  to  form  dressing.  Toss 
with  spinach  and  any  or  all  of  the  optional  ingredients. 


Veiy  different  and  delicious. 


Kathv  Southerland 


Salads  and  Dressings   129 


One  Sunday  several  years 
ago,  we  had  already  placed  the 
sacraments  on  the  cloth-covered 
table  when  I  noticed  several  big 
wrinkles  on  the  front  of  the 
cloth.  I  did  some  last  minute 
touch-up  with  an  iron,  then 
unplugged  it,  but  in  my  haste 
forgot  to  take  it  away. 
Hopefully,  very  few  people  in 
the  congregation  noticed  it,  but 
during  the  service  I  could  see 
the  iron  standing  near  the 
lectern. 

Bev  MacBain 


Deviled  Eggs 


Yields  12  Egg  Halves 


6  hard-boiled  eggs 

Vt  cup  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 

1  to  lVz  teaspoons  prepared 

mustard  or  Durkee's  Sauce 
Vz  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  pepper 


1  teaspoon  cider  vinegar  (optional) 
Vi  teaspoon  sweet  pickle  juice 

(optional) 
54  dash  cayenne  pepper  (optional) 
Olives  or  paprika  for  garnish 


Cut  cooked  eggs  in  half.  Remove  yolks  and  mash  well.  Mix  with 
mayonnaise,  mustard,  salt,  pepper.  Add  cayenne  pepper,  vinegar  and  pickle 
juice,  if  desired.  Put  yolk  mixture  in  egg  whites.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to 
serve.  Garnish  with  olives  or  paprika. 

Bev  MacBain 

Church  Picnic  Potato  Salad 

Sen>es  Sixteen  to  Twenty 


6  to  8  large  red  potatoes,  cooked, 

peeled,  and  cubed 
5  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 
5  green  onions,  finely  chopped 
2  tablespoons  parsley,  finely 

chopped 

2  stalks  celery,  finely  chopped 

3  tablespoons  sweet  pickle  relish 


5  strips  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
2  tablespoons  prepared  mustard 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  mayonnaise 


Boil  potatoes  in  skins  until  tender.  Cool  in  refrigerator  several  hours  and 
then  peel  and  cut  in  cubes.  Mix  potatoes  with  remaining  ingredients  in  a 
large  bowl  and  refrigerate. 

My  sister  and  I  love  to  make  this  recipe  for  church  picnics  and 
family  get-togethers.  It 's  the  best! 

Linda  Wallace 


1 30  Salads  and  Dressings 


Mama's  Potato  Salad 

Serves  Eight 


6  large  potatoes,  peeled  and  diced 

2  cups  finely  chopped  celery 

1  large  onion,  diced 

Salt  to  taste 

Oil  and  vinegar  dressing 


1  to  l'/i  cups  I  lellniann's  Light 

mayonnaise 
3  teaspoons  celery  seed 
Parsley  for  garnish 


Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  well  and  put  in  large  bowl. 
Add  celery,  onion,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well.  Toss  with  just  enough  oil 
and  vinegar  dressing  to  moisten.  Cover  and  refrigerate  overnight.  When 
ready  to  serve,  stir  in  mayonnaise  and  celery  seed.  Garnish  with  parsley. 


All  time  favorite! 


Bev  MacBain 


Basil  Pasta  Salad 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


8  ounces  cheese  tortellini,  green 
8  ounces  cheese  tortellini,  white 
1  dozen  cherry  tomatoes,  halved 
1  (16-0/.)  can  sliced  black  olives 

1  cup  pine  nuts,  toasted 

2  cups  fresh  broccoli  florets 

1  cup  mozzarella,  finely  cubed 


Marinade: 

Vi  cup  vegetable  or  Canola  oil 
Vi  cup  red  wine  vinegar 
Vi  cup  Parmesan  cheese 
Vi  cup  fresh  or  3  tablespoons 

dried  basil 
1  dash  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  dash  garlic  powder 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cook  pasta  according  to  package  directions.  While  pasta  cooks,  make 
marinade  in  blender.  Pour  over  pasta  while  warm.  Cool  before  adding 
other  ingredients,  especially  cheese  and  broccoli.  Can  serve  warm,  but  best 
when  cold. 

/  like  dried  tortellini  (boxed)  better  than  frozen. 

Julie  Tucker 
Salads  and  Dressings   1 3 1 


My  first  memories  ofMPPC  are 
of  the  Married  Couples  Forum. 
Those  great  monthly  gatherings 
provided  a  wonderful  way  to 
make  friends.   The  food  was 
delicious,  and  the  programs 
were  stimulating.   The  ones  I 
liked  best  were  when  Jas.  A. 
Jones  (MPPC),  Charles  E.  S. 
Kraemer  (First  Presbyterian) 
and  Warner  Hall  (Covenant) 
got  together  to  teach  but  mostly 
entertained  us.  Eleanor  Belk 
would  go  around  the  tables  and 
call  everyone  by  name,  even  if 
she  had  met  them  for  the  first 
time  that  night.  I  was  on  my 
way  to  one  of  those  dinners 
when  I  had  to  go  to  the  hospital 
instead  to  have  my  first  child. 
Bill. 

Marilvn  Ranson 


Linguini  Salad 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  pound  linguini  pasta,  cooked 

and  drained 
1  medium  onion,  chopped 
1  medium  cucumber,  chopped 
1  pint  grape  tomatoes 


2  (4-oz)  cans  sliced  black  olives, 

drained 
4  ounces  Feta  cheese,  crumbled 
Vi  bottle  Salad  Supreme  seasoning 
14  ounces  Italian  salad  dressing 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  large  bowl.  Cover  and  chill  until  serving  time. 

Pat  Blount 

Marcia's  Rice 

Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


8  cups  (2  pounds)  orzo,  cooked 

according  to  package  directions 
Frozen  green  peas,  thawed 
1  small  can  sliced  black  olives 
lA  cup  fresh  parsley,  chopped 
Vt  cup  fresh  dill,  chopped 


Green  onions,  red  pepper,  and 

green  pepper,  diced 
'A  cup  currants 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Vinaigrette  Dressing  (below) 


Mix  hot  orzo  with  vinaigrette  dressing  of  your  choice.  Add  all  other 
ingredients  and  chill. 


Vinaigrette  Dressing 


Balsamic  vinegar 

Olive  oil 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


%  teaspoon  spicy  brown  mustard 

Paprika  to  taste 

Dash  of  sugar  (optional) 


Mix  together  equal  parts  balsamic  vinegar  and  olive  oil.  Add  salt,  pepper, 
mustard  and  paprika  to  taste.  Add  sugar  if  desired.  Mix  well. 

Wendy  Kennev 


132  Salads  and  Dressings 


A  fond  memory  I  have  of  the 
1950s  in  our  church  is  the 
monthly  "Young  Married 
Couples  Forum  "  arid  dinner. 
We  met  in  the  Panel  Room  on 
the  lower  level  of  the  main 
church  building  with  usually 
about  125  members  present. 
We  had  excellent  speakers, 
great  fellowship  and  wonderful 
food— Magnolia 's  hot  rolls  were 
outstanding.   The  highlight  of 
the  evening  may  have  been 
when  Eleanor  Belk  stood  up  and 
introduced  everyone,  never 
missing  a  single  name.  Miss 
Eleanor  had  a  special  talent  for 
this  and  was  a  truly  special 
lady. 

Stewart  Peery,  Sr. 


Curried  Rice  Salad 


1  package  chicken-flavored  rice 
1  (12-oz)  jar  marinated  artichoke 

hearts,  chopped 
4  green  spring  onions,  chopped 
12  pimento  olives,  thinly  sliced 


1  small  can  mushrooms,  drained 
%  teaspoon  curry  powder 
'A  cup  mayonnaise 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cook  rice,  omitting  butter.  Cool  rice.  Drain  artichoke  hearts,  reserving 
marinade.  Add  mayonnaise  and  curry  powder  to  marinade.  Add  onions, 
olives,  mushrooms  and  chopped  artichoke  hearts  to  rice.  Add  marinade  to 
rice  mixture  and  refrigerate  overnight. 

Great  with  ham  or  fried  chicken. 
Wonderful  for  picnics  or  covered  dish  dinners. 


Elsie  Barnhardt 


Lynn's  Rice  Salad 


Serves  Six 


1  cup  cooked  rice,  chilled 

2  tomatoes,  peeled 

1  Yi  cups  green  peas,  cooked 
1  can  artichoke  hearts,  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  chopped 


V*  cup  green  onions,  chopped 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 
1  tablespoon  dried  basil 
1  tablespoon  dried  mint 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Squeeze  tomatoes,  reserving  liquid.  Cut  tomatoes  in  cubes.  Combine 
chilled  rice,  cubed  tomatoes,  peas,  chopped  artichoke  hearts,  green  pepper 
and  onions.  Stir  together  tomato  juice  and  mayonnaise.  Stir  into  rice 
mixture  and  add  spices.  Serve  chilled. 

Jan  Swetenburg 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 33 


As  a  young  girl  sitting  with  my 
family  in  church  one  Sunday,  I 
became  attached  to  a  deacon. 
Wlten  Mr.  Everett  Bierman 
leaned  over  me  to  pass  the 
collection  plate,  a  button  on  his 
coat  got  caught  in  my  long,  red 
hair.  Receiving  the  offering  was 
held  up  while  we  all  worked  on 
the  disentanglement. 

Shirley  White 


Broccoli  Slaw 


2  cups  grated  broccoli 

1  carrot,  grated 

Purple  cabbage,  grated 

'A  cup  raisins 

Lemon  juice,  small  amount 

'A  cup  mayonnaise 


1 54  tablespoons  milk 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
'A  teaspoon  sugar 
54  teaspoon  celery  salt 
1  teaspoon  dried  parsley 
54  teaspoon  dried  tarragon 


Combine  grated  broccoli  and  carrot.  Add  small  amount  of  grated  purple 
cabbage  for  color.  Soak  raisins  in  hot  water  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Combine  remaining  ingredients  to  make  dressing.  Mix  well  with  whisk  or 
beater.  Add  dressing  to  broccoli  mixture.  Refrigerate  3  hours  or  more. 


Louise  Smith 


Cole  Slaw 


Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 


1  large  head  white  cabbage 

1  large  onion 

1  large  green  pepper 

1  cup  sugar 

1  .i  cup  salad  oil 


1  cup  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed 
1  tablespoon  salt 


Shred  or  thinly  slice  cabbage  in  large  non-metal  bowl.  Shred  or  thinly  slice 
onion  and  pepper.  Put  on  top  of  cabbage.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  all  to  cover 
entire  top.  Do  not  stir.  Put  salad  oil,  vinegar  and  dry  seasonings  in  small 
saucepan  and  bring  to  boil.  Pour  heated  mixture  over  cabbage,  onion,  green 
pepper  and  sugar.  Do  not  stir.  Cover  and  refrigerate  at  least  4  hours, 
preferably  overnight.  Keeps  for  2  weeks  in  refrigerator.  Delicious! 

For  years  I  've  taken  my  slaw  to  many  covered  dish  picnics  or  dinners  at 
church.  I  always  take  home  an  empty  bowl! 

Bev  MacBa'm 


1 34  Salads  and  Dressings 


Oriental  Broccoli  Slaw 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 

1  (16-oz)  package  broccoli  slaw  !/2  cup  vegetable  oil 

4  green  onions,  sliced  3  tablespoons  sugar 

'A  cup  slivered  almonds,  toasted  3  tablespoons  white  wine  vinegar 

1  package  Oriental  Ramen  noodle  1  cup  broccoli  florets,  chopped 
soup 

Mix  together  broccoli  slaw,  green  onions,  almonds,  crushed  noodles  and 
broccoli  florets.  Use  seasoning  packet  from  noodle  soup  and  mix  with  oil, 
sugar  and  vinegar.  Pour  over  vegetable  mix  and  toss  well.  Keeps  well  in 
refrigerator  for  several  days. 

Rita  Vandiver 

Lucy's  Vinegar  Cole  Slaw 

Small  head  of  cabbage  (3  pounds)  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  '  >  cup  chopped  onion 

1  cup  vinegar  %  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1  teaspoon  celery  seed  'A  cup  chopped  red  pepper 

1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 

Shred  cabbage.  Set  aside.  Heat  sugar  and  vinegar  over  low  heat,  stirring 
until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Let  cool.  When  cool,  add  all  remaining  ingredients 
and  mix  well.  Pour  over  cabbage  and  mix  again.  Put  in  container,  cover  and 
store  in  refrigerator.  Let  stand  a  few  hours  before  serving.  Improves  in 
flavor  and  crispness  after  a  few  days. 

When  we  visited  Lucy,  my  husband's  grandmother,  in  Albemarle,  NC, 

we  always  took  her  to  get  barbeque,  but  we  never  bought  slaw. 

Hers  was  the  best! 

Betsy  Gantt 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 35 


Eleanor  Belk  planned  so  many 
activities  for  the  youth  in  the 
1940s,  thinking  that  keeping  us 
busy  would  keep  us  out  of 
trouble.  During  the  summer 
months,  we  were  constantly  at 
the  church  playing  sports,  going 
on  hayrides,  swimming,  etc.   We 
even  put  on  Gilbert  and  Sullivan 
Operettas  under  the  direction  of 
Jim  Sutcliffe.   The  performances 
were  outstanding,  we  thought, 
and  were  well  attended  by 
church  members.  Miss  Belk 
was  also  in  charge  of  the  young 
adults,  and  MPPC  was  the 
place  to  be  on  Sunday  evenings. 
There  would  be  as  many  as  90 
in  attendance,  and  Miss  Belk 
could  go  around  the  room  and 
call  all  their  names.  She  saw  to 
it  that  we  had  interesting 
speakers  and  events.  MPPC 
was  also  the  place  to  be  on 
Wednesday  nights  for  family 
dinners  in  the  fellowship  hall, 
now  classrooms  under  the 
Chapel.    I  helped  my  mother, 
Louise  Hill,  set  the  tables  with 
fresh  white  cloths  and  napkins. 
Mother  and  her  dear  friend, 
Beth  Cobb  Hough,  served  as 
Pastor's  Aids  for  Dr.  James  A. 
Jones.  For  over  ten  years,  they 
called  on  every  new  member  of 
the  church  (when  membership 
was  under  1 ,000).  MPPC  has 
been  an  extended  family  for  us 
and  a  constant  source  of 
strength. 

Mary  Lou  Lindsev 


Del's  Marinated  Vegetable  Salad 

Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


1  (15-oz)  can  small  early  green 
peas,  drained 

1  (15-oz)  can  small  lima  beans, 
drained 

2  (15-oz)  cans  French  cut  green 

beans,  drained 
2  (15-oz)  cans  shoe  peg  corn, 
drained 


1  (8-oz)  can  slice  water  chestnuts, 
drained 

2  cups  sliced  celery 

1  medium  jar  pimento,  drained 
Marinade: 

%  cup  vegetable  oil 

%  cup  white  vinegar 

Vi  cup  sugar 


Mix  marinade  ingredients  until  well  blended.  Layer,  in  order,  vegetables  in 
glass  bowl  starting  with  peas  and  ending  with  pimento.  Pour  marinade 
evenly  over  vegetables.  Marinate  24  hours  in  refrigerator. 

Easy  and  delicious.   Great  for  buffets  and  potluck  dinners.  Keeps  well  in 
refrigerator  for  several  days. 

Thelma  Wilson 

Scandinavian  Salad 


1  cup  white  vinegar 
%  cup  sugar 
Vi  cup  salad  oil 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  (14V2  -oz)  can  French  style 
green  beans 


1  (15-oz)  can  tiny  green  peas 
14  ounces  pimento 
1  stalk  celery,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  medium  onions,  chopped 
Vi  head  cauliflower,  chopped 


Mix  vinegar,  sugar,  salad  oil,  salt  and  pepper  to  make  marinade.  Stir  well. 
Drain  green  beans,  peas  and  pimento  and  add  to  marinade.  Add  celery, 
pepper,  onion  and  cauliflower.  Stir  well    Marinate  overnight. 


/  sometimes  omit  the  green  pepper  and  pimento. 


Mae  Leitch 


1 36  Salads  and  Dressings 


House  Party  Bean  Salad 

Serves  Twelve 


1  (16-oz)  can  black  beans 
1  (16-oz)  can  white  beans 
1  (16-oz)  can  red  beans 
1  (16-oz)  can  lima  beans 

1  cup  fresh  chopped  tomato 
Vi  cup  finely  chopped  parsley 
'A.  cup  thinly  sliced  stallions 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 


1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  fresh 
thyme,  or  1  teaspoon  dried 

Vinaigrette  Dressing: 

%  cup  olive  or  vegetable  oil 
%  cup  white  wine  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  teaspoon  Dijon  mustard 


Place  beans  in  colander  and  rinse  under  cold  water.  Drain  well.  Add  all 
remaining  ingredients,  including  vinaigrette  dressing,  and  toss  well.  Cover 
and  refrigerate.  Vinaigrette  Dressing:  Mix  all  ingredients  until  well 
blended.  Use  right  away  or  refrigerate  in  a  tightly  covered  jar. 

Can  be  made  2  days  ahead  and  refrigerated,  but  is  best  served 
at  room  temperature. 

Cornelia  Harbison 

Tarragon  Tomatoes 


6  tomatoes,  sliced 

%  cup  oil 

%  cup  tarragon  vinegar 

Thyme,  dried  or  fresh,  to  taste 


1  teaspoon  salt 

14  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cucumbers,  sliced  (optional) 

1  medium  onion,  sliced  (optional) 


Place  tomatoes  in  a  dish.  Mix  dressing  ingredients  and  pour  over  tomatoes. 
Add  cucumbers  and  onions  if  desired.  Refrigerate.  May  be  marinated 
overnight.  Remove  from  liquid  and  serve  as  a  side  dish  or  on  a  salad. 

This  is  a  dish  my  mother-in-law,  Lib  Harkey,  always  serves  at  family  get- 
togethers.    We  love  the  taste  of  tomatoes,  cucumbers  and  onions  combined. 

Johanna  Harkey 


Salads  and  Dressings   137 


A  postcard  in  my  scrapbook  is 
signed  by  Eleanor  Belk  and 
addressed  by  hand  to  "Miss 
Rebecca  Scholl,  739  Providence 
Rd.,  City.  "  A  box  beside  the 
1944  postmark  reads  "Buy  War 
Savings  Bonds  and  Stamps.  " 
Postage  was  one  cent,  and  mail 
was  delivered  twice  a  day  then. 
The  card's  message  is:  "There 
is  a  DA  TE:  Friday,  September 
22nd  7:00;  There  is  a  PLACE: 
Myers  Park  Presbvterian 
Church;  There  is  a  GOOD 
TIME  to  be  had  by  all;  There  is 
a  HAY  RIDE  if  the  sun  shines; 
There  is  fun  in  the 
RECREA  TION  ROOM  if  it 
rains;  There  is  SOMETHING  to 
bring--.  50  (for  the  hayride). 
Please  call  #38851  between 
4:00-6:00  Thursday  if  you  can 
come.  "  I  remember  the  hayride. 

Rebecca  Schenck 


Chicken  and  Pasta  Salad 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


4  to  6  chicken  breasts 
2  chicken  bouillon  cubes 
2  to  2Y2  cups  water 
lA  cup  chopped  onion 
6  ounces  vermicelli  pasta 
1  (14-oz)  can  plain  artichoke 

hearts,  halved 
1  pint  cherry  tomatoes,  halved 


Dressing: 

V/i  tablespoons  grated  onion 

Vi  cup  oil 

3  tablespoons  red  wine  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

V/i  tablespoons  sugar 

IV2  teaspoons  seasoned  salt 

1/4  teaspoons  dried  basil 


Dissolve  bouillon  cubes  in  water.  Simmer  chicken  and  onion  in  bouillon 
until  done,  about  45  minutes.  Strain  and  reserve  broth.  Remove  chicken. 
Cool  and  chop.  Break  vermicelli  into  2-inch  pieces  and  cook  in  broth 
according  to  package  instructions.  To  make  dressing,  combine  all 
ingredients  and  mix  well.  When  pasta  is  done,  drain  and  mix  with  chicken 
and  dressing.  Add  artichoke  hearts  and  toss.  Refrigerate  at  least  2  hours 
prior  to  serving.  To  serve,  add  cherry  tomatoes  and  toss. 


Jeannie  Fuller 


1 38  Salads  and  Dressings 


Sometime  around  1944,  the 
small  senior  high  group  had  a 
real  hayride  (wagons,  horses 
and  lanterns)  arranged  by  Miss 
Eleanor  Belt   We  left  Oxford 
Place  and  went  out  Selwyn 
Avenue  to  what  is  now  Park 
Road,  then  to  Woodlawn,  a 
gravel  two  lane  road,  and 
Scaleybark,  also  gravel,  to  a 
farm,  where  we  had  a  cookout. 
As  usual,  we  had  fun  with  Miss 
Eleanor.   We  were  due  back  at 
10:30 p.m.  but  didn  't  arrive  until 
after  12:00.   When  the  wagon 
turned  up  Oxford  Place,  lots  of 
cars  and  upset  people  were 
waiting,  including  Dr.  Jas.  A. 
He  asked  Eleanor  what  was  the 
meaning  of  this,  and  she  said, 
"James,  we  were  having  such  a 
good  time  that  time  just  slipped 
away. " 

Robert  H.  Westbrook 


Chicken  'n'  Rice  Salad 

Serves  Five 


1  (4.3-oz)  package  Rice-a-Roni 
Long  Grain  and  Wild  Rice 

1  tablespoon  oil 

2  cups  chopped  cooked  chicken 
2  carrots,  chopped 

6  to  8  green  onions,  chopped 


1  cucumber,  seeded  and  chopped 
Vi  cup  red  or  green  pepper, 

chopped 
V*  cup  slivered  almonds 
'  •:  cup  Italian  dressing 
Lettuce  leaves 


Prepare  Rice-a-Roni  as  directed,  substituting  oil  for  butter.  Cool  10 
minutes.  Combine  all  ingredients  in  large  bowl.  Chill  4  hours  or  overnight. 
Stir  before  serving  on  lettuce. 


Good  served  with  corn  muffins. 


Meal  Pasta  Salad 

Ser\>es  Eight 


Audrey  Dougherty 


lA  cup  sesame  seeds 

Vi  cup  vegetable  oil,  divided 

Vi  cup  soy  sauce 

V»  cup  red  wine  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

'/:  teaspoon  salt 

lA  teaspoon  pepper 


8  ounces  rotini  pasta,  cooked 

and  drained 
3  cups  chicken  breast,  cooked 

and  shredded 
Vi  cup  chopped  parsley 
%  cup  sliced  green  onions 
8  cups  fresh  spinach,  torn 


Combine  sesame  seeds  and  V*  cup  vegetable  oil  in  small  skillet.  Cook  over 
medium-low  heat,  stirring  until  seeds  are  coated.  Combine  sesame  seed 
mixture,  remaining  V*  cup  oil,  soy  sauce,  vinegar,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  in 
small  bowl.  Cool.  Pour  over  cooked  pasta.  Add  chicken  and  toss  gently. 
Cover  and  chill  at  least  6  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  parsley,  green 
onions  and  spinach  and  toss. 

Claudia  Belk 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 39 


Granny  Watson's  Chicken  Salad 

Yields  10  to  12  Cups 


1  (3  to  4-pound)  fryer 

2  cups  diced  celery 
1  cup  pecans,  diced 

1  small  can  water  chestnuts, 

diced 
8  olives,  diced 


2  cups  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 
1  teaspoon  Lawry's  seasoned  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  onion  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  garlic  salt 
6  hard-boiled  eggs,  diced 


Boil  chicken  in  salted  water  until  well  done.  Remove  chicken  from  water 
and  cool.  Remove  skin,  remove  meat  from  bones,  and  dice  meat.  With 
fork  or  large  spoon,  blend  chicken,  celery,  pecans,  water  chestnuts,  and 
olives  into  the  mayonnaise.  Blend  in  spices.  Fold  in  diced  eggs  with  a  fork. 
Chill  and  keep  refrigerated  until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  John  Watson,  of  Staunton,  VA,  relished  the  name  "Granny,  "  and  was 

a  delightful  neighbor  of  my  parents-in-law  -  some  of  whose  grandchildren 

asked  for  the  recipe.  This  is  an  example  of  the  great  food  she  would  bring 

over  when  we  visited. 

Julius  Melton,  Parish  Associate 


1 40  Salads  and  Dressings 


Kay's  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad 

Serves  Eight 


12  ounces  vermicelli  pasta 
1  tablespoon  Accent  seasoning 
V*  cup  fresh  lemon  juice 
V*  cup  vegetable  oil 
1  tablespoon  seasoned  salt 
%  pound  shrimp,  cooked 
and  peeled 


1  (4-oz)  jar  pimento 

1  large  green  bell  pepper,  chopped 

V*  cup  chopped  celery 

Vi  cup  sweet  onion,  chopped 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

Vi  cup  sliced  ripe  olives 


One  day  before  serving  cook  vermicelli  according  to  package  directions. 
In  large  bowl,  mix  pasta.  Accent,  lemon  juice,  oil  and  seasoned  salt. 
Refrigerate  and  marinate  overnight.  On  the  day  of  serving,  fold  the  shrimp 
and  remaining  ingredients  into  the  pasta.  Cover  and  refrigerate  for  at  least 
2  hours  before  serving. 


Great  as  a  summertime  side. 


Kathlvn  Caldwell 


VEGETABLE  AND  SHRIMP  PASTA  SALAD 


Serves  Six 


1  pound  asparagus 

1  pound  broccoli 

'A  pound  mushrooms,  sliced 

1  small  can  sliced  black  olives 

1  red  pepper,  chopped 

1  cup  shrimp,  cooked  and  peeled 

Vi  cup  olive  oil 


1  teaspoon  crushed  red  chili 

peppers 
1  pound  penne  pasta,  cooked  and 

drained 
3  cloves  garlic,  minced 
Grated  Parmesan  cheese 
lA  cup  chopped  Italian  parsley 


Steam  asparagus  and  broccoli  until  just  tender.  Rinse  in  cold  water.  Chop 
into  bite  sized  pieces.  Mix  next  8  ingredients.  Top  with  Parmesan  cheese 
and  parsley.  Chill  until  ready  to  serve. 


Easy! 


Bunny  Church 


Salads  and  Dressings   1 4 1 


Favorite 

Salad 
Dressing 

1  cup  oil 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  vinegar 

'A  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  dried  mustard 

1  teaspoon  paprika 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a 
jar  and  shake  well. 

Great  with  a  salad  of  green 
leaf  lettuce,  blue  cheese,  red 

onion  rings  and  Granny 

Smith  apple  wedges.   Goes 

well  with  Italian  foods. 

Donna  Witman 


Gourmet  Tuna  Salad 

Serves  Eight 


1  (6-oz)  box  Uncle  Ben's  Wild 

Rice  mix 
1  cup  mayonnaise 
Vi  cup  sour  cream 

1  cup  chopped  celery 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 


1  cup  chopped  pecans 

'/» teaspoon  salt 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper 

1  (14-oz)  can  water-packed  tuna, 

drained 
Paprika 


Cook  rice  according  to  package  directions.  Flake  tuna  with  a  fork.  Mix 
together  mayonnaise,  sour  cream,  celery,  onions,  pecans  and  tuna. 
Combine  with  rice.  Refrigerate  a  few  hours  to  allow  flavors  to  blend. 
Serve  in  a  bowl  lined  with  red  leaf  lettuce.  Top  with  grape  tomatoes  and 
sprinkle  with  paprika. 

This  is  a  wonderful  dish  to  take  to  a  covered  dish  supper  as  a  side  dish. 

It  can  be  the  main  entree  for  lunch  or  a  simple  dinner, 

served  with  sliced  tomatoes  and  cheese  toast. 


Genevieve  Cummings 


French  Dressing 


1%  cups  salad  oil 

Vt  cup  vinegar 

Vt  cup  sugar 

1  can  tomato  soup 

1  tablespoon  Finely  chopped  onion 


1  tablespoon  paprika 

1  tablespoon  salt  (or  less  to  taste) 

1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  clove  garlic 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a  blender  and  refrigerate.  Keeps  well  in 
refrigerator. 

For  an  elegant  touch,  add  chunks  of  blue  cheese  to  this 
dressing  before  serving. 

Rachel  Emery 


1 42  Salads  and  Dressings 


French 
Dressing 

Vi  cup  sugar 

V*  cup  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  small  onion,  grated 

1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped 

2  tablespoons  ketchup 
Vi  cup  oil 

1  teaspoon  paprika 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  together. 
Chill  before  serving. 

/  use  this  dressing  on  a  salad 

of  lettuce,  sliced  Vidalia 

onions,  orange  slices, 

quartered  strawberries  and 

chopped  pecans. 

Erwin  Williams 


Honey  Dressing  for  Fruit  Salad 


Yields  1  Pint 


ZA  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

%  teaspoon  paprika 

%  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  celery  seed 


Vi  teaspoon  strained  honey 
5  tablespoons  white  vinegar 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  teaspoon  grated  onion 
1  cup  Mazola  oil 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  well  beating  constantly  with  electric 
mixer.  Do  not  refrigerate.  Will  keep  several  weeks. 


DeeDee  McKay 


Poppy  Seed  Dressing 


Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  dry  mustard 

1  tablespoon  paprika 


1  teaspoon  poppy  seeds 
4  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  grated  onion 
1  cup  salad  oil 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  salad  oil.  Mix  with  electric  mixer.  Add 
salad  oil  in  thirds,  beating  after  each  addition.  This  dressing  will  keep  for 
several  weeks  in  refrigerator.  Delicious  on  fresh  fruits. 


Anne  Wright 


Poppy  Seed  Dressing 


Vz  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

2  teaspoons  salt 
54  cup  vinegar 


%  cup  honey 

1  %  cups  salad  oil 

3  teaspoons  poppy  seeds 


Mix  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  vinegar  and  honey  and  mix  well.  Add  oil 
and  poppy  seeds  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  fresh  fruit. 

Harriet  Pharr 
Salads  and  Dressings   143 


Summer  Salad 
Dressing 

Yields  1  Pint 

lA  cup  sugar 

'A  cup  vegetable  oil 

V*  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1  clove  garlic,  crushed 

'A  cup  vinegar 

Vi  cup  chili  sauce 

1  tablespoon  chopped  chives 

Dash  of  salt  and  pepper 

Combine  all  ingredients  in 
glass  jar.  Shake  well. 
Refrigerate.  Will  keep 
several  weeks  in  refrigerator. 

Great  on  sliced  tomatoes! 

Jan  Swetenburg 


Mummy's  Salad  Dressing 


1  cup  oil 

Vi  cup  vinegar 

54  cup  Heinz  chili  sauce 

'A  cup  ketchup 

Horseradish  to  taste 


Keen's  dry  mustard  to  taste 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste 
Salt,  pepper,  and  garlic  powder 
to  taste 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  bottle  and  shake  well. 


Microwave  Bread 
and  Butter  Pickles 


Sue  Zielinski 


1  medium  cucumber,  thinly  sliced 

2  small  Vidalia  onions,  thinly 

sliced 
3A  cup  sugar 


Vi  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  celery  seed 

'A  teaspoon  mustard  seed 


In  a  large  microwave-safe  bowl,  combine  all  ingredients.  Microwave 
uncovered  on  high  for  4  minutes  and  stir.  Cook  3  to  4  minutes  longer  or 
until  mixture  is  bubbly  and  cucumbers  are  crisp-tender.  Cover  and 
refrigerate  for  at  least  4  hours.  Ingredients  may  be  doubled,  but  it  is  not 
necessary  to  increase  cooking  time. 

Pun  kin  Brooks  hi  re 


1 44  Salads  and  Dressings 


Roquefort 
Dressing 

1  quart  Hellmann's 

mayonnaise 
8  ounces  Roquefort  cheese, 

crumbled 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

sauce 
5  ounces  tomato  juice  or  to 

taste 
Vi  teaspoon  brown  sugar 
Dash  of  vinegar  (optional) 

Mix  together  all  ingredients 
and  refrigerate.  Best  if  made 
ahead.  Vinegar  will  cut  the 
mayonnaise  taste. 

Ann  Patterson 


Roquefort  Sour  Cream  Dressing 

Serves  Eight 


16  ounces  sour  cream 
Vi  teaspoon  pepper 
' :  teaspoon  garlic  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  celery  salt 
Paprika  to  taste 


2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Vi  cup  mayonnaise  or  Miracle  Whip 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  pound  blue  cheese,  crumbled 


Mix  all  ingredients,  except  cheese.  Carefully  fold  in  cheese.  Serve  over 
crisp  lettuce  or  green  salads.  Keeps  well  in  refrigerator. 

/  like  to  use  Clemson  University  Blue  Cheese.  It's  very  good.  It  can  be 
ordered  at  1-800-599-0181. 


Elizabeth  Thompson 


Tyler  Downing's  Favorite 
Squash  Pickle 

Yields  11  to  15  pints 


16  cups  sliced  yellow  and 

zucchini  squash 
8  to  10  medium  yellow  onions, 

thinly  sliced 
Vi  cup  salt 
Red  bell  pepper  to  taste  (optional) 


Syrup: 

5  cups  white  sugar 

5  cups  vinegar 

IVi  tablespoons  celery  seed 

IVi  tablespoons  turmeric 


Soak  sliced  onions  and  squash  for  3  hours  in  1  gallon  ice  water  in  which  salt 
has  been  dissolved.  Drain  but  do  not  rinse.  Mix  syrup  ingredients  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  Add  squash  and  onions  and  bring  to  a  boil  again.  Pack  into 
hot  Vi  pint  or  pint  jars  and  seal.  Yield  varies  depending  on  size  of  veggies. 
Hint:  Add  a  few  slivers  of  red  bell  pepper  for  color  and  taste  (but  not  too 
much!). 

Makes  great  holiday  gifts! 

Tyler  Downing,  Former  Associate  Pastor 
Salads  and  Dressings   145 


In  the  earliest  years  ofMPPC,  music  for  the  worship  services  was  provided 
by  Mrs.  Elsie  Moseley,  organist  and  director,  and  a  paid  quartet  of  singers. 
With  the  arrival  of  James  Christian  Pfohl  as  organist  and  director,  great 
changes  were  made  with  a  large  choir  and  special  music  programs  often  with 
orchestral  accompaniment.  Pfohl  had  easy  access  to  both  singers  and  players 
as  he  was  head  of  the  Music  Department  at  both  Queens  and  Davidson 
Colleges,  as  well  as  director  of  the  Charlotte  Symphony.  In  the  late  forties,  Dr. 
Pfohl  decided  to  bring  some  high  school  singers  into  the  adult  choir  -  an 
exciting  event  in  my  life!  I  eagerly  told  my  parents  that  I  was  to  be  a  member 
of  the  adult  choir  (and  a  paid  member  at  that)!  My  father  thought  this  was  a 
wonderful  opportunity  for  me,  but  he  was  quite  definite  that  I  was  not  to 
receive  money  for  singing  in  the  church  choir.  With  fear  and  trembling,  I 
approached  Dr.  Pfohl  with  the  news,  and  his  firm  reply  was  that  everyone  in 
his  choir  was  paid  with  no  exceptions  but  I  would  be  free  to  do  with  the  money 
as  I  liked,  including  giving  it  back  to  the  church.  That  resolved  the  matter,  and 
as  I  recall,  the  high  school  singers  were  paid  50  cents  a  Sunday. 

Em  Ranson  Baesel 


Bob  and  Ann  Stigall,  Directors  of  Music 
and  Organists  from  1963  to  2001 


?hoir  and  pulpit  in  the  original  sanctuary 


Going  to  church  early  to  help 
Daddy  ring  the  bell  and  being 
lifted  off  my  feet  when  I  pulled 
the  rope. 

Daddy  as  the  first  Scout  leader 
and  getting  the  charter  for 
Troop  55;  Scouts  camping  in  the 
backyard  away  from  our  house 
with  three  little  girls. 

Helping  Mother  arrange  flowers 
for  Sunday  morning  church 
when  it  was  her  circle 's  month. 
My  job  was  to  stand  in  the  back 
of  the  church  to  see  if  the 
arrangements  looked  alike. 

Freezing  at  Sunday  school  in 
the  log  hut  and  sitting  on  my 
feet  to  thaw  out  in  church. 

Mother  cooking  whole  apples 
spiced  with  "red  hots  "  to  make 
them  pink.  She  was  always 
asked  to  fix  them  for  the  men 's 
dinner  served  in  the  log  hut  with 
no  real  kitchen  facilities. 

Mules  pulling  the  wagon  for 
hayrides;  Hugh  McManaway 
taking  his  saw  along  and 
playing  tunes  while  we  sang. 

Fish  fries  Daddy  had  in  our 
backyard  for  officers  of  the 
church. 

Harriet  Earnhardt 


Asparagus  and  Proscuitto 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


Olive  oil 

1  bunch  of  asparagus 


'A  pound  proscuitto,  sliced 

54  cup  Feta,  goat  or  blue  cheese 


Coat  a  baking  sheet  with  olive  oil.  Prepare  asparagus  for  cooking  by 
snapping  off  the  tough  ends.  Take  asparagus  and  roll  !/•>  a  slice  of  proscuitto 
around  it.  As  you  are  rolling  the  asparagus,  sprinkle  cheese  of  your  choice 
on  the  proscuitto.  Sprinkle  more  olive  oil  on  the  top  of  the  asparagus  and 
then  place  on  a  hot  grill.  Grill  for  about  ten  minutes  and  then  serve. 

This  is  an  excellent  side  dish  or  can  be  served  as  an  appetizer. 

Mary  Jo  Ashcraft 

Asparagus  Souffle 

Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


1  (l6-o/)  can  cut  asparagus, 

drained 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
4  eggs 


V*  cup  mayonnaise 
1  cup  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 
grated  (reserve  'A  cup  for  top) 


Put  all  ingredients  (except  reserved  cheese)  in  blender.  Put  into  greased 
1  '/i-quart  casserole.  Sprinkle  reserved  cheese  on  top.  Set  casserole  dish  in 
a  pan  with  about  1  inch  of  water.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Our  grandchildren  all  love  this  -  even  the  ones  who 
never  liked  asparagus  before. 

Harriet  Barnhardt 


1 48    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Baked  Fresh 
Asparagus 


2  pounds  asparagus 

3  tablespoons  minced  fresh 

parsley 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Salt  and  pepper 

Wash,  peel,  and  break  off 
ends  of  asparagus.  Arrange 
in  a  single  layer  in  an  oblong 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 
Drizzle  olive  oil  and  butter 
over  asparagus.  Cover 
tightly  with  aluminum  foil 
and  bake  at  400  degrees  for 
20  to  25  minutes. 

No  I  a  Linker 


Rich  Asparagus  Casserole 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


2  cups  canned  asparagus  tips 
2  tablespoons  butter 
2  tablespoons  flour 
Vi  cup  asparagus  liquid 


Vi  cup  half-and-half 

54  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Ritz  Crackers 

Butter 


Drain  canned  asparagus  and  reserve  liquid.  Melt  butter  and  add  flour, 
stirring  for  1  minute.  Add  asparagus  liquid  and  cream,  stirring  until  it 
thickens  to  form  a  white  sauce.  Add  cheese.  In  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
place  a  layer  of  asparagus  and  top  with  a  layer  of  sauce.  Repeat  the  layers. 
Top  with  crumbled  Ritz  crackers  and  drizzle  with  melted  butter.    Bake 
uncovered  at  325  for  30  minutes.  Casserole  can  be  frozen. 


Kathv  Southerland 


Barbara's  Green  Beans 


Serves  Eight 


2  (14.5-oz)  cans  French  cut  green 

beans,  drained 
2  medium  onions,  chopped 
Vz  cup  Wesson  oil 
Vi  cup  water 


Vi  cup  vinegar 
Vi  cup  sugar 

1  (8-oz)  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 
4  or  5  strips  bacon,  cooked  and 
crumbled 


Combine  and  marinate  first  six  ingredients  overnight  or  for  several  hours. 
Drain.  Add  water  chestnuts  and  bacon.  Place  all  ingredients  in  greased 
casserole  dish.  Bake  uncovered  at  325  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Beth'  Austin 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   149 


Baked  Mixed  Beans 


Serves  Twelve 


8  pieces  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  pound  cut  green  beans,  drained 
1  pound  kidney  beans,  drained 
1  pound  pork  and  beans,  not 

drained 


V*  cup  brown  sugar 

Vi  cup  cider  vinegar 

Vi  teaspoon  garlic 

Vi  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Lawry's  Seasoned  Salt  to  taste 

Worcestershire  to  taste 


Saute  onion  in  bacon  grease.  Add  other  ingredients  and  cook  in  a  large 
saucepan  for  about  45  minutes  to  1  hour  or  until  beans  are  tender  and 
flavorful. 

Great  the  next  day. 

Sunny  Lambeth  Allen 

Sharon's  Baked  Beans 


1  (15  or  16-oz)  can  each: 

navy  beans 

kidney  beans 

pinto  beans 

black  beans 

large  lima  beans 
3  medium  onions,  chopped 
'A  cup  vinegar 


Vi  cup  brown  sugar 
1  tablespoon  mustard 
Vi  cup  ketchup 
1  'A  teaspoons  garlic  salt 
4  cloves  garlic,  minced 
4  tablespoons  oil 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Tabasco  to  taste 


Drain  and  rinse  all  beans.  Place  in  large  bowl.  Mix  onions  and  all  other 
ingredients  in  medium  bowl.  Add  onion  mixture  to  beans,  stir  to  mix.  and 
pour  into  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees,  covered  for  25 
minutes  and  then  uncovered  for  20  minutes,  for  a  total  of  45  minutes. 

Great  baked  beans! 
Not  traditional  or  boring  and  people  always  love  them. 

Gina  Folk 


150    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Mexican  Black  Bean  Pie 

Se>-ves  Six  to  Eight 

1  package  Pillsbury  pie  crusts  Vi  to  V*  cup  salsa 

3  tablespoons  oil  Vi  teaspoon  chili  powder 

1  cup  chopped  onion  8  ounces  Colby  and  Monterey 

Vi  cup  chopped  green  and  red  Jack  cheese,  shredded 

peppers  Flour  tortillas 

1  (15-oz)  can  black  beans  Sour  cream  for  garnish 

Prepare  pie  crusts  according  to  instructions.  Line  pie  plate  with  one  crust. 
Heat  oil.  Add  onion  and  peppers  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  beans,  salsa 
and  chili  powder  and  cook  approximately  ten  minutes.  Spoon  Vi  of  bean 
mixture  into  pie  crust  and  sprinkle  with  4  ounces  of  cheese.  Top  with 
tortillas.  Repeat  with  remaining  bean  mixture.  Top  with  remaining  cheese. 
Cover  with  second  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  50  minutes.  Let 
stand  for  10  minutes  before  cutting.  Garnish  with  sour  cream.  Serve  with  a 
green  salad. 

Jeaimie  Fuller 

Beets  Burgundy 

Serves  Four 

1  (20-oz)  can  julienne  beets  Salt 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Vi  cup  burgundy  wine 

Vi  cup  sugar  Vt  cup  wine  vinegar 

1/8  teaspoon  powdered  cloves  2  tablespoons  butter 

Drain  beets,  reserving  lA  cup  juice.  Mix  cornstarch,  sugar,  cloves  and  salt. 
Gradually  add  wine,  vinegar  and  beet  juice.  Stir  over  medium  heat  until 
mixture  thickens.  Add  butter  and  beets.  Cover  and  let  stand  for  30  minutes. 

Blvthe  McCradie  Link 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 5 1 


hollandaise 
Sauce 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 
4  egg  yolks,  beaten 
4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Pinch  of  salt 

Melt  butter  in  double  boiler. 
Remove  from  burner,  add  egg 
yolks,  and  blend  well.  Add 
lemon  juice  and  salt.  Return 
to  burner  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  thickens. 

•*  The  secret  is  keep  the 
water  in  the  double  boiler 
hot,  but  not  to  let  it  boil. 

This  recipe  was  my  mother- 
in-law,  Sara  Goolsby's.  She 
was  a  very  active  member 
with  the  women  of  the  church 
from  1952  to  1962. 

Nancy  Goolsby 


Broccoli  Casserole 


Serves  Twelve 


2  packages  frozen  chopped 

broccoli 
1  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
1  cup  mayonnaise 


1  cup  mushroom  soup 
1  scant  teaspoon  salt 
4  whole  eggs,  beaten 


Partially  cook  broccoli.  Combine  with  other  ingredients.  Place  in 
ungreased  casserole  dish.  Put  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  uncovered  at  350 
degrees  for  45  to  60  minutes. 

Babbie  Boyd 

Broccoli  Casserole 


Sen>es  Six  to  Eight 


2  packages  frozen  chopped 

broccoli 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 


1  cup  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 

legg 

VA  cups  grated  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

Plain  breadcrumbs 


Lightly  spray  a  2-quart  casserole  dish  with  cooking  spray.  Cook  broccoli  in 
microwave  for  10  minutes  (do  not  add  water  to  broccoli).  Blot  cooked 
broccoli  with  paper  towel  to  remove  excess  water.  Add  soups,  mayonnaise, 
egg,  and  cheese  to  broccoli.  Mix  well,  and  then  sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  45  minutes. 

This  recipe  is  so  easy  and  wonderful.  It  is  great  for  holiday  company. 

Susan  "Woozie"  Dell 


1 52    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Sweet  Songhae  was  my 
friend  and  an  extraordinary 
peacemaker,  as  well  as  a 
wonderful  homemaker,  cook, 
and  Mom.   This  is  her 
delicious  dish  from  a  middle 
school  home  economics 
cookbook.  I  never  eat 
broccoli  without  thinking  of 
Songhae 's  grace  and  beauty. 

Lyn  Sutterlin 


Broccoli  with 
Sour  Cream  Pecan  Sauce 


Serves  Four  to  Five 


1  head  broccoli 

2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  minced  onion 
2  teaspoons  sugar 
VA  cups  sour  cream 


2  teaspoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  poppy  seed 

'A  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

lA  cup  chopped  pecans,  toasted 


Peel  broccoli  stems.  Slice  diagonally  into  VS-inch  pieces.  Separate  broccoli 
top  into  florets.  Steam  until  just  tender.  Saute  onion  in  butter.  Stir  in  next 
six  ingredients  for  sauce.  Pour  over  steamed  broccoli.  Sprinkle  with 
pecans. 

Blythe  McCradie  Link 

Broccoli  Supreme 

Seizes  Five  to  Six 


1  (8-oz)  package  frozen  broccoli 
1  egg,  beaten 

Vi  medium  onion,  chopped  fine 
'A.  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 


%  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
4  ounces  herb  seasoned  stuffing 

mix 
%  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 


Cook  broccoli  according  to  package  directions.  Combine  egg,  onion,  soup, 
and  mayonnaise  in  a  small  bowl.  Place  layer  of  broccoli  in  a  1 -quart 
casserole.  Add  layer  of  cheese.  Pour  a  small  amount  of  sauce  over  this. 
Repeat  layers  until  all  ingredients  are  used.  Top  with  stuffing  mix.  Drizzle 
butter  on  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  minutes. 


This  recipe  is  in  memory  of  Songhae  Kim. 


Lyn  Sutterlin 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   153 


Swiss  Broccoli  Zucchini  Bake 


Serves  Four 


Vi  cup  butter  or  oil 

V/i  cups  cut  fresh  broccoli  or 
1  (10-oz)  package  frozen 
broccoli,  thawed  and  cut 

VA  cups  sliced  zucchini 

1  egg 


Vi  cup  shredded  Swiss  cheese 

V*  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

V*  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Dash  cayenne  pepper 

'A  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Melt  butter  or  oil  in  large  skillet.  Add  vegetables  and  cook  until  tender. 
Beat  egg  slightly,  and  stir  in  Swiss  cheese,  milk,  salt,  mustard  and  pepper. 
Place  vegetables  in  1 -quart  baking  dish.  Pour  egg  mixture  over  vegetables 
and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  15  to  20  minutes. 

Sue  McCoy 

Brussels  Sprout  and  Artichoke 
Casserole 

Serves  Four 


1  package  frozen  baby  brussels 

sprouts 
1  large  can  artichokes,  drained 
Vi  cup  water 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 
V*  cup  Parmesan  cheese 


'A  teaspoon  celery  seed, 

or  celery  salt 
Vi  cup  melted  margarine 
2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
Vi  cup  slivered  almonds  (optional) 


Cook  brussels  sprouts  in  water.  Drain.  Cut  artichokes  into  quarters  and 
mix  with  brussels  sprouts.  Combine  mayonnaise,  cheese,  celery  seed. 
margarine  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  evenly  over  vegetables.  Top  with 
almonds  if  desired.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Judy  Ramon 


1 54   Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Carrots  Vichy 

Senses  Four 

1/4  pounds  carrots 
4  ounces  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  sugar 
54  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  sprigs  parsley,  chopped 

Cut  carrots  in  thin  julienne 
strips  or  thin  rounds.  Put 
carrots  in  pot  with  just 
enough  water  to  cover.  Add 
butter,  salt,  sugar,  and 
nutmeg.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
continue  cooking  until  water 
is  evaporated.  Check  carrots 
carefully  while  cooking  to 
prevent  burning.  Carrots  are 
done  when  water  is 
completely  evaporated. 
Sprinkle  with  parsley  and 
serve. 

Martha  Jean  Marshall 


Mom's  Sweet  and  Sour  Red  Cabbage 


Senses  Ten  to  Twelve 


1  head  red  cabbage  (2  pounds) 
54  cup  butter 

54  cup  chopped  onions 
54  cup  wine  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 


1  tablespoon  salt 

54  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  water 

2'A  cups  sliced,  tart  apples 

54  teaspoon  ginger  (optional) 


Slice  cabbage.  Melt  butter  in  a  large,  heavy  saucepan.  Add  onions  and 
saute  until  lightly  browned.  Add  cabbage  and  remaining  ingredients  and 
mix  lightly.  Cover  and  simmer  for  about  1  lA  hours. 

This  is  one  of  my  favorite  recipes  from  Lib  Harkey. 

Catherine  Harkey 

Creamed  Celery 

Serves  Six  to  Ei°ht 


4  cups  celery,  cut  in  chunks 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

3  tablespoons  all-purpose  flour 
2  cups  milk 


1  teaspoon  salt 
54  teaspoon  paprika 
3/4  cup  breadcrumbs 
3A  cup  pecans 


Cook  celery  in  small  amount  of  boiling  salted  water  6  to  8  minutes  until  just 
tender.  Drain.  Melt  butter  in  a  heavy  saucepan  over  low  heat.  Add  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Cook  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Gradually  add 
milk.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  thickened  and 
bubbly.  Add  salt,  paprika  and  celery  to  white  sauce.  Spoon  into  greased 
1  'A-quart  casserole.  Top  with  pecans  and  breadcrumbs,  and  bake  at  400 
degrees  for  1 5  minutes. 

My  mother  made  this  every  Christmas  and  Thanksgiving,  and  we  all  looked 
forward  to  the  creamed  celeiy  as  much  as  we  did  the  turkey! 

Sue  Zielinski 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   155 


Curious 
Carrots 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 

1  pound  baby  carrots 
3  tablespoons  butter  or 

margarine 
Vi  cup  green  olives  with 

pimento,  sliced 

Steam  and  drain  carrots. 
Warm  butter  and  olives  in 
microwave  or  on  top  of  stove. 
Combine  with  carrots  and 
serve. 

Betsy  Deupree 


Horseradish  Carrots 


Sen'es  Four  to  Six 


4Vi  cups  sliced  fresh  carrots 
■4  cup  onion,  coarsely  chopped 
2  tablespoons  horseradish 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
V*  cup  saltines,  crumbled 
V*  cup  butter,  melted 


In  a  large  saucepan,  boil  carrots  until  tender  and  drain.  Saute  onion  until 
soft.  Combine  onion,  carrots,  mayonnaise,  horseradish,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Turn  mixture  into  buttered  IVi-quart  casserole  dish.  Top  with 
crumbled  saltine  crackers  and  drizzle  with  melted  butter.  Bake  uncovered 
at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Stephany  Templeton 

Hot  Fruit  and  Carrot  Casserole 


Serves  Eight 


2  tablespoons  margarine  or  butter 
2V%  tablespoons  flour 
1  can  pineapple  chunks,  drained, 
reserving  juice 


Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  pound  prunes,  stewed  and  pitted 

1  pound  cooked,  sliced  carrots 


Melt  butter  and  slowly  add  flour  until  thick.  Add  pineapple  juice  and  sugar. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  mixed  pineapple,  prunes  and  carrots.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  20  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Can  be  frozen. 

A  colorful,  great  tasting  side  dish  for  chicken  or  pork.   This  recipe  was 
given  to  me  by  my  mother-in-law. 

Sallie  Lowrance 


1 56    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Carrot-Onion 
Stir  Fry 

Serves  Six 

6  tablespoons  butter 

1  medium  onion,  thinly  sliced 

6  medium  carrots,  cut  julienne 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

1 ' :  teaspoons  dried  tarragon, 

crumbled 
Salt  to  taste 
Freshly  ground  pepper 

Melt  butter  in  wok  or  heavy 
large  skillet  over  medium 
heat.  Add  onion  and  stir  until 
softened  (about  3  minutes). 
Increase  heat  to  medium- 
high.  Add  carrots  and  stir 
until  just  tender  (about  5 
minutes).  Stir  in  sugar  and 
tarragon  and  cook  2  minutes 
more.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Erwin  Williams 


Collard  Greens  with 
Red  Onions  and  Bacon 

Serves  Eight 


4  pounds  collard  greens 
Vi  pound  sliced  bacon, 

cut  crosswise  into  fourths 
3  medium  red  onions,  chopped 

coarsely  (about  3  cups) 


V*  cup  cider  vinegar 

VA  cups  chicken  broth 

2  tablespoons  firmly  packed  dark 

brown  sugar 
Vi  teaspoon  dried  hot  pepper  flakes 


Remove  small  leaves,  coarse  stems  and  ribs  from  collards  and  discard. 
Wash  remaining  leaves  and  stems  well.  Drain,  chop  coarsely,  and  set  aside. 
In  a  deep  heavy  kettle,  cook  bacon  in  2  batches  over  moderate  heat  until 
crisp.  Transfer  to  paper  towels  to  drain.  Pour  off  all  but  about  3 
tablespoons  of  drippings.  Cook  onions  in  remaining  drippings,  stirring 
occasionally,  until  slightly  browned  and  softened.  Transfer  onions  to  a 
bowl  with  a  slotted  spoon.  Add  broth,  vinegar,  brown  sugar,  red  pepper 
flakes  and  about  half  the  bacon  to  the  kettle,  stirring  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Add  about  half  the  collards,  tossing  until  wilted  slightly.  Add  remaining 
collards,  tossing  until  combined.  Simmer  greens  30  minutes.  Stir  in  onions 
and  simmer  covered  for  30  more  minutes  or  until  greens  are  very  tender. 
Top  with  bacon  when  serving. 

/  make  this  for  New  Year's  Day.  Even  my  kids  will  eat  these  because  they 
have  a  sweet  and  sour  taste. 

Beth  Neale 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   157 


Mother's 
Corn  Pudding 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 
2  eggs,  beaten 
1  cup  sour  cream 
1  can  whole  kernel  corn 
1  can  cream  style  corn 
1  package  Jiffy  corn 
bread  mix 

Mix  together  butter,  eggs  and 
sour  cream.  Add  whole 
kernel  corn,  cream  style  corn 
and  corn  bread  mix.  Pour 
into  9x1 3-inch  glass  baking 
pan  sprayed  with  cooking  oil. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes. 

Dixie  Denney 


Chile  Cheese  Corn  Pudding 


1  can  peeled  and  diced  green  chilies 
4  cups  corn  kernels  (about  8  ears), 

divided 
Vi  cup  half-and-half  or  milk 
Va  cup  whipping  cream 


5  large  eggs 

1%  cups  shredded  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese,  divided 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Va  teaspoon  white  pepper 


Place  3  cups  of  corn  in  a  food  processor  fitted  with  a  steel  blade.  Add  half- 
and-half  or  milk  and  process  until  smooth.  Pour  into  a  medium  mixing 
bowl  and  whisk  in  cream  and  eggs.  Add  remaining  cup  of  corn,  chilies,  Wi 
cups  of  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Whisk  until  well  combined.  Pour  mixture 
into  a  buttered  2-quart  souffle  dish.  Sprinkle  remaining  cheese  on  top. 
Place  the  souffle  dish  in  a  large  ovenproof  dish  with  enough  hot  water  to 
reach  halfway  up  the  sides.  Bake  50  to  60  minutes  until  top  is  golden 
brown  and  appears  firm.  Remove  from  oven  and  let  rest  10  to  15  minutes 
before  serving.  It  will  become  firmer  as  it  cools. 

John  and  Betsy  Johnson 

Christine's  Corn  Pudding 


1  cup  fresh  uncooked  corn, 

removed  from  cob 
1  cup  whipping  cream 
3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 


Vi  teaspoon  flour 
2  tablespoons  sugar  or  to  taste 
1  teaspoon  salt  or  to  taste 
1  pinch  baking  powder 


Using  a  sharp  knife,  slice  tips  of  corn  kernels  off  the  cob.  Slit  between  the 
rows  and  gently  scrape  remainder  of  kernels  off  the  cob.  Beat  eggs  slightly 
with  a  spoon.  Add  cream.  Add  sugar  mixed  with  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder.  Mix  well  and  add  corn.  Bake  in  a  1 -quart  casserole  at  350  degrees 
for  35  to  45  minutes. 

Using  fresh  corn  scraped  from  the  corncob  is  one  of  the  secrets  of  good 

corn  pudding.  For  a  quicker  version,  I  use  a  drained  can  of  white 

slioe  peg  corn. 

Cornelia  Harbison 


158    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Eggplant  Casserole 


1  to  2  eggplants,  sliced  %  to 

Vi-inch  thick 
Breadcrumbs 
Olive  oil 
Garlic 
1  green  pepper,  cut  into  chunks 


1  large  onion,  cut  into  chunks 
1  to  2  packages  Stouffers  creamed 

spinach,  thawed 
1  large  jar  Ragu  spaghetti  sauce 

(onion  and  garlic  flavored) 
1  cup  grated  cheese 


Soak  eggplant  slices  in  cold,  salted  water  for  15  minutes.  Remove  and  dip 
in  breadcrumbs.  Saute  breaded  eggplant  in  olive  oil  and  garlic  until 
browned.  Drain  and  remove  from  pan.  Saute  green  pepper  and  onion  in 
same  pan.  Layer  half  of  eggplant,  spinach,  green  pepper  and  onion,  and 
spaghetti  sauce  in  casserole  dish.  Repeat  layers.  Sprinkle  top  with  cheese. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  until  hot  and  bubbly,  about  30  minutes.  If  desired,  wait 
until  the  end  of  baking  time  to  add  cheese  so  that  it  doesn't  get  too  brown. 


Sallv  Porter 


Spanish  Eggplant 


Sen>es  Six 


4  slices  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled  (reserve  drippings) 
1  medium  onion,  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  eggplant,  pared  and  cubed 

2  teaspoons  salt 


%  teaspoon  pepper 

1  (10-oz)  can  tomato  puree 

1  cup  water 

Vi  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

%  cup  butter 

1  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese 


Saute  onion  and  green  pepper  in  bacon  drippings  until  golden.  Add 
eggplant,  salt,  pepper,  tomato  puree,  and  water.  Cook,  covered,  5  to  10 
minutes  until  almost  tender.  Pour  into  greased  2-quart  baking  dish.  Heat 
breadcrumbs  in  butter  until  golden  brown.  Top  eggplant  mixture  with 
cheese,  crumb  mixture,  and  crumbled  bacon.  Bake  uncovered  at  350 
degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes  until  tender. 

Beck\-  Johnson 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 59 


Lavinia  Crosland  and  the  baby 
nursery!  Our  Special  Eleanor 
Belk  with  her  wonderful  smile, 
beautiful  spirit— and  very  wild 
and  wonderful  Christmas 
pageants  with  singed  hair,  wise 
men  and  babies  galore!  Every 
Sunday  school  class  Bill  White 
has  taught  me! 
These  =  Love,  Love,  Love. 

Roonev  Robison 


Mushroom  Casserole 


Serves  Four 


1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

2  stalks  celery  minced 
%  teaspoon  salt 

12  ounces  sliced  mushrooms 
Fresh  ground  pepper  to  taste 
4  slices  toasted  whole  wheat  bread, 
crusts  removed  and  cubed 


2  tablespoons  flour 

Vt  teaspoon  thyme 

V*  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Vi  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese, 

packed 
4  large  eggs 
1  cup  milk 
Paprika 


Melt  butter.  Add  onions,  celery  and  salt  and  saute  for  5  to  8  minutes.  Add 
mushrooms  and  pepper  and  saute  for  5  more  minutes.  Combine  flour  with 
thyme  and  dry  mustard.  Sprinkle  seasoned  flour  into  vegetables,  mixing 
thoroughly.  Cook  for  5  minutes  over  low  heat.  Spread  in  well-buttered 
casserole  and  top  with  toast  cubes  and  grated  cheese.  Beat  eggs  and  milk 
together  and  pour  over  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  paprika.  May  be 
refrigerated  overnight.  Bring  to  room  temperature  and  bake  at  350  degrees 
for  45  minutes. 

Blythe  McCradie  Link 

Gourmet  Onions 

Serves  Eight 


6  Vidalia  or  sweet  onions 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  black  pepper 
Vi  teaspoon  MSG 


4  tablespoons  butter 

Vi.  cup  cooking  sherry 

Vi  cup  fresh  Parmesan  cheese 


Cut  onions  into  rings  and  separate  rings.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
MSG.  Saute  onions  in  butter  about  8  minutes  or  just  until  tender  (not 
brown).  Use  wooden  spoon  to  toss  onions.  Add  sherry,  cover  and  boil  2 
minutes.  Sprinkle  with  cheese.  Serve  in  sauce  dish. 


Good  with  pork  tenderloin. 


Roonev  Robison 


1 60    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Marilyn's  Onion  Casserole 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


V/i  pounds  (3  large)  Vidalia  or 

sweet  onions,  sliced  into  rings 
1  cup  whipping  cream 
1  large  egg 


'  i  teaspoon  salt 

'A  teaspoon  pepper 

Vi  cup  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 

lA  teaspoon  paprika 


Cover  onions  with  boiling  water  and  cook  for  1  minute.  Drain.  Place  in 
slightly  greased  8-inch  square  baking  dish.  Whisk  together  whipping 
cream,  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  onions.  Sprinkle  with  cheese  and 
paprika.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  minutes. 


Ruby  Paul 


Onion  Pie 

Yields  1  Large  Pie 


2  cups  Vidalia  onions,  sliced 
4  tablespoons  butter 

3  large  eggs,  beaten 

'A  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Vi  cup  evaporated  milk 

1  deep  dish  pie  crust,  unbaked 

4  slices  bacon,  cooked  and 

crumbled 
Vi  to  V*  teaspoon  sugar  (optional) 


Cook  onions  and  butter  in  covered  saucepan  over  low  heat  for  about  30 
minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  cool  slightly.  Stir  in  beaten  eggs,  cheese, 
salt,  pepper,  and  evaporated  milk.  If  not  using  Vidalia  onions,  add  sugar. 
Pour  into  pie  crust  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes.  Sprinkle 
crumbled  bacon  on  top.  Cool  10  minutes  before  slicing. 


May  be  served  hot  or  cold  -freezes  well 


Sloan  White 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 6 1 


In  the  early  '50s,  Eleanor  Belli 
started  a  Young  Adult  group 
which  met  for  Sunday  school 
and  Sunday  evening  vespers  and 
attracted  young  people  working 
in  Charlotte.  Many  of  us 
became  engaged,  and  the 
wonderful  matchmaker  Eleanor 
was  on  hand  to  help  with  our 
weddings.  In  1955  so  many  had 
married  that  it  was  time  to  start 
another  Sunday  school  class. 
Patsy  and  Doug  Marshall  were 
presidents,  and  members  voted 
to  be  called  the  John  Calvin 
Class.  Since  the  church  would 
not  allow  a  nursery  unless  a 
Registered  Nurse  was  available, 
Carolyn  Westbrook  and  Betty 
Fesperman  took  that  challenge. 
Cribs  and  toys  were  collected, 
and  the  baby  nursery  was  born. 
Many  of  us  (Kenneth  and  1 
joined  after  we  married  in  I960) 
were  stay  at  home  moms  with 
little  help  and  modest  means,  so 
to  go  out  to  dinner  was  special. 
John  Calvin  had  a  monthly 
covered  dish  dinner  and 
produced  a  cookbook  of  favorite 
recipes,  dedicated  to  Eleanor 
Belk,  who  always  attended  our 
gatherings.  John  Calvin 
disbanded  on  Sunday  mornings 
as  members  assumed  other 
church  duties,  but  we  still  have 
covered  dish  dinners,  support 
each  other  and  serve  the 
church,  just  as  Eleanor  Belk 
nurtured  us  to  do. 

Betty  Bridges 


Dorothy's  Spinach  Casserole 

Serves  Eight 


2  packages  frozen  chopped  spinach 
8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
'A  cup  butter,  softened  or  melted 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


1  onion,  chopped 
Vi  teaspoon  sage 
Breadcrumbs 


Cook  and  drain  spinach.  Combine  all  ingredients,  except  sage  and 
breadcrumbs,  in  a  greased  casserole.  Top  spinach  with  breadcrumbs  mixed 
with  sage.  Dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes. 


Mary  Martin 


Spinach  Casserole 

Serves  Four  to  Six 
1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped         VA  cups  grated  sharp  cheese 


spinach 
Vi  cup  salted  water 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  beaten  egg 


2  slices  bread,  cubed 

3  tablespoons  butter  or 

margarine,  melted 
1  dash  garlic  salt  (optional) 


Cook  spinach  in  water  and  sugar.  Drain  water,  squeezing  out  all  liquid  with 
back  of  large  spoon.  Combine  spinach  with  soup,  egg  and  cheese,  and  put 
in  greased  1  'A-quart  casserole.  Add  cubed  bread  and  garlic  salt  to  melted 
butter  and  toss  lightly.  Top  spinach  mixture  with  bread  cubes  and  bake  at 
350  degrees  for  1  hour.  May  be  prepared  ahead  of  time  and  refrigerated 
until  baking  time.  To  double  recipe,  use  9x1 3-inch  glass  baking  pan  and 
bake  1  hour  and  15  minutes. 

Margaret  Stakes 


1 62    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Spinach  Madeleine 

4  boxes  frozen  chopped  spinach  Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

Salt  and  pepper  1  pound  hot  or  mild  jalapeno 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste  pepper  cheese,  cut  in  chunks 

Lemon  juice  to  taste  Buttered  breadcrumbs 

Cook  spinach  according  to  directions  and  drain  well.  While  spinach  is  hot, 
add  all  other  ingredients  except  breadcrumbs.  Mix  well.  Top  with  buttered 
breadcrumbs.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  warm 
throughout.  Freezes  well. 

This  is  a  great  company  casserole.  People  always  love  it.  I  freeze  small 

mounds  of  leftovers  and  make  Flounder  Madeleine  later  by  putting  them 

on  top  of  the  fish  for  the  last  half  of  the  cooking  time. 

Cornelia  Harbison 

Tofu  Spinach  Pie 

Serves  Four  to  Six 

10  to  12  ounces  fresh  spinach  V%  teaspoon  garlic  powder 

12  to  16  ounces  tofu  1  teaspoon  seasoned  salt 

2  eggs,  lightly  beaten  Double  10  inch  pie  crust  (optional) 

2  cups  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Steam  spinach  until  barely  done.  Add  tofu  (mashed  well  with  fork),  eggs, 
cheese,  and  seasonings.  Mix,  then  turn  into  either  the  prepared  crust  or  a 
10-inch  oiled  pie  plate.  If  a  crust  is  used,  top  with  upper  crust,  flute  the 
edges  and  prick  with  a  fork.  Bake  at  450  degrees  for  10  minutes;  reduce 
heat  to  350  degrees  and  bake  an  additional  45  to  50  minutes.  If  a  crust  is 
not  used,  bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes. 

Even  the  tofu-terrified  like  this. 

Sue  McCoy 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   163 


When  I  was  dating  Rebecca  in 
the  early  '50s,  she  took  me  to  a 
Young  Adult  program  at  MPPC 
one  Sunday  night  when  Jas.  A. 
Jones  spoke  to  the  group.   We 
sat  in  a  circle  in  the  Panel 
Room,  and  Dr.  Jones  not  only 
spoke;  he  also  smoked.  I  was 
surprised,  and  after  the  meeting 
I  said  to  Rebecca,  "I  grew  up  in 
the  Lutheran  Church,  where  I 
never  saw  a  minister  smoke.  " 

Gordon  Schenck 


Belk's  Squash  Casserole 


2  pounds  squash 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 
8  ounces  shredded  cheese 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  pepper 

Vt  cup  butter,  divided 

'A  cup  flour 

1  pint  milk 

Ritz  crackers,  crushed 


Cook  squash  and  onion  until  tender;  drain  and  mash.  Stir  in  cheese,  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper  and  mix  until  cheese  melts.  Mix  in  lA  cup  butter  and  flour. 
Blend  in  milk.  Pour  into  greased  baking  dish.  Melt  remaining  butter  and 
stir  in  crushed  Ritz  crackers.  Spread  over  top  of  squash  mixture.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  40  minutes. 

This  casserole  was  standard  fare  at  Barclay 's  Cafeteria  in  Belk  's  at 
Southpark  and  was  a  favorite  of  many  MPPC  members. 

Betty  Killian 

Country  Club  Squash 


Serves  Six 


2  pounds  yellow  squash,  sliced 

Vi  cup  chopped  onions 

lA  cup  water 

1  cup  sour  cream 

!4  teaspoon  salt 

'A  teaspoon  pepper 

V*  teaspoon  whole  basil 


1  cup  soft  breadcrumbs 
'A  cup  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
Vi  teaspoon  paprika 
8  slices  bacon,  cooked  and 
crumbled 


Cook  squash  and  onion  in  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  mash.  Stir  in  sour 
cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  basil.  Pour  into  a  greased  2-quart  casserole  dish. 
Combine  breadcrumbs,  cheese,  butter,  and  paprika  and  sprinkle  over  squash 
mixture.  Top  with  bacon.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

For  a  little  sweeter  taste,  1  substitute  4  ounces  of  margarine  for  4  ounces  of 
the  sour  cream.  I  also  use  Parmesan  flavored  breadcrumbs. 

Vickie  Jamison,  staff 


1 64   Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Maggie  Peery's  Squash 

Serves  Eight  to  Twelve 

3  yellow  squash,  grated  1  box  Jiffy  cornbread  mix 

4  eggs,  beaten  'A  cup  margarine 

12  ounces  cottage  cheese  Grated  onion  to  taste 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  a  greased  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  35  minutes  until  firm  in  the  middle. 

This  recipe  came  from  Maggie  Peery,  a  former  associate  pastor.  Adding 
sour  cream  can  vary  this  recipe.   The  size  of  the  squash  determines  the 
amount  of  the  casserole.  I  use  5  small  squash  about  5  inches  in  length. 

Carrol  Davis 

Squash  Casserole 

Serves  Six 

5  to  6  summer  squash  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

1  (28-o/)  can  tomatoes,  drained  Shredded  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

or  several  fresh  tomatoes,  sliced  (can  use  part  Mozzarella) 

1  large  green  pepper,  sliced  Pepperidge  Farm  breadcrumbs 
1  large  onion,  sliced 

Put  butter  in  2-quart  casserole.  Layer  half  of  squash,  tomatoes,  pepper  and 
onions  in  casserole.  Top  with  cheese  and  breadcrumbs.  Repeat  layers. 
Bake  covered  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  Uncover  and  bake  30  minutes 
more. 

If  using  foil  to  cover  casserole,  spray  foil  with  cooking  spray.   To  make 
3-quart  casserole,  add  more  vegetables  and  cheese. 

Cathy  Bradford 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 65 


Having  taught  in  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Weekday  School 
for  26  years,  I  hear  many  cute 
comments  from  children.  I 
especially  like  this  one.    We 
were  singing  Christmas  songs 
and  began  "Maty  had  a  baby  " 
when  a  little  boy  cried  out,  "No, 
no,  Miss  Mae,  Maty  not  had 
baby,  Mary  had  lambie.  " 

Mae  Leitch 


Squash  Casserole 

Serves  Twelve  to  Fifteen 


3  pounds  summer  squash 
2  medium  onions,  chopped 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  eggs,  beaten 

2  cups  breadcrumbs 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Dash  Tabasco 

Vz  pound  grated  cheese 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

Several  strips  bacon  (optional) 


Cut  squash  into  2-inch  slices  and  cook  in  1  cup  water  until  tender.  Drain 
and  mash.  Add  remaining  ingredients  except  bacon.  Stir  well.  Pour  into 
greased  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Sprinkle  additional  breadcrumbs  on  top,  if  desired. 
Cut  bacon  into  1-inch  pieces  and  arrange  on  top,  if  desired.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  bacon  has  cooked  and  crumbs  have 
browned.  Recipe  may  be  cut  in  half. 

Mae  Leitch 

Zucchini  Crescent  Pie 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


4  cups  thinly  sliced  zucchini 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

Yi  cup  butter 

Vi  cup  chopped  parsley  or 

2  tablespoons  flakes 
'A  teaspoon  salt 
lA  teaspoon  pepper 


%  teaspoon  garlic  powder 

Vt  teaspoon  basil 

Vt  teaspoon  oregano 

2  eggs,  beaten 

8  ounces  grated  Mozzarella  cheese 

1  (8-oz)  can  crescent  rolls 

2  tablespoons  mustard 


Saute  zucchini  and  onion  in  butter  for  10  minutes.  Stir  in  parsley,  salt, 
pepper,  garlic  powder,  basil,  and  oregano.  Combine  eggs  and  cheese.  Stir 
into  zucchini  and  set  aside.  Separate  rolls  in  triangles  and  arrange  on 
ungreased  pie  pan  to  form  a  crust.  Spread  crust  with  prepared  mustard. 
Pour  vegetable  mixture  into  crust.  Bake  for  1 8  to  20  minutes  until  set. 
Cover  crust  with  foil  for  the  last  10  minutes.  Let  stand  for  10  minutes 
before  serving. 

Debbie  Darden 


1 66    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Zucchini  Pepper  Pie 

Serves  Six 


1  9-inch  pie  crust 

3  medium  zucchini,  thinly  sliced 

2  green  onions  with  tops,  chopped 
1  large  clove  garlic,  minced 

1  medium  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  oil 
'  i  teaspoon  salt 
Vz  teaspoon  basil 


1  medium  tomato,  peeled  and 
chopped,  or  1  (14-oz)  can 
chopped  tomatoes 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

3  eggs 

Vi  cup  heavy  cream  or  milk 

%  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Prick  bottom  of  pie  crust  and  bake  at  450  degrees  for  8  minutes,  or  until 
lightly  browned.  Cool.  Saute  zucchini,  onion,  garlic,  and  green  pepper  in 
oil  about  5  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Stir  in  tomato,  salt,  basil,  and 
pepper.  Cook  about  10  minutes  over  low  heat,  stirring  occasionally,  until 
vegetables  are  tender  and  liquid  has  evaporated.    Spread  vegetables  evenly 
in  pie  crust.  Beat  eggs  and  cream  or  milk  until  mixed.  Pour  over 
vegetables.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  at  350  oven  for  30 
minutes  or  until  set. 

Sue  McCoy 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   167 


/  have  special  memories  of 
serving  for  twenty  years  as 
sanctuary  flower  coordinator. 
Some  of  the  most  enjoyable 
times  were  Saturdays  when  I 
arranged  flowers  while  Ann  and 
Bob  Stigall  rehearsed  their 
Sunday  organ  music.    What 
inspiration  to  have  in  the  church 
as  I  worked  in  that  beautiful 
setting. 

Tina  Todd 


Grilled  Green  Tomatoes 


Serves  Four 


2  large  green  tomatoes 

Salt 

Pinch  of  sugar 


2  tablespoons  melted  bacon 

drippings  or  olive  oil 
Ground  cayenne 
Freshly  ground  black  pepper 


Wash  tomatoes  and  split  them  in  half  crosswise.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt 
and  a  tiny  pinch  of  sugar.  Invert  them  in  a  colander  and  let  stand  for  30 
minutes  in  the  sink.  Prepare  the  grill  or  preheat  the  broiler.  When  the  fire 
is  ready,  wipe  tomatoes  well  with  a  paper  towel  and  brush  them  with  the 
drippings  or  oil.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  more  salt,  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne, 
and  a  few  grindings  of  black  pepper.  Grill  cut-side  down  (or  broil  cut-side 
up)  about  4  inches  from  the  heat  source  until  they  begin  to  brown,  about  5 
to  8  minutes.  Turn  and  brush  with  more  drippings  or  oil.  (If  you  are  using 
the  broiler,  do  not  turn  them,  but  watch  to  make  sure  they  do  not  get  too 
brown).  Grill  until  tender,  another  8  to  12  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Great  accompaniment  for  grilled  chicken.  A  nice  variation  on 
an  old  favorite. 

Sandy  Dupuy 

Stewed  Tomato  Casserole 


'A  cup  finely  diced  onion 
3  tablespoons  butter 
2  (16-oz)  cans  stewed  tomatoes 
1  tablespoon  sugar 


%  teaspoon  basil 

1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cups  toasted  bread  cubes 


Saute  onion  in  butter.  Add  remaining  ingredients  except  the  bread  cubes 
and  continue  simmering  until  bubbly.  Add  bread  cubes  and  toss  until  moist. 
Serve  immediately. 

Linda  Ream,  WDS  staff 


1 68    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Italian  Tomato  Pie 

Yields  24  Individual  Tarts  or  2  Large  Pies 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  1  teaspoon  basil 

3A  cup  mayonnaise  1  teaspoon  thyme 

1  egg  and  2  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  pepper 

3  to  4  large  tomatoes,  peeled  and  4  to  5  dashes  Tabasco 

chopped  2  cloves  garlic 
10  ounces  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

8  ounces  Monterey  Jack  cheese  Topping: 
1  teaspoon  Lawry's  seasoned  salt  Breadcrumbs 

24  individual  pie  crusts  or  Parmesan  cheese 

2  (9-inch)  pie  crusts  Butter 

Saute  onions  in  butter.  Beat  mayonnaise  and  eggs.  Add  tomatoes,  cheeses, 
seasoning,  and  onions  to  mayonnaise  mix.  Spoon  into  tarts  or  large  pie 
shells.  Top  with  breadcrumbs  mixed  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  butter. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  to  45  minutes  or  until  done.  Let  sit  before 
serving.  Freezes  well  unbaked. 

Pull  out  of  freezer  at  a  moment's  notice  to  use  as  an  impressive  side  dish. 
Always  a  hit! 

Catherine  Wilson 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

6  firm  tomatoes  Minced  onions 

1  cup  Hellmann's  mayonnaise  Breadcrumbs 

Parmesan  cheese 

Peel  tomatoes,  scoop  out  centers,  and  drain  on  paper  towels.  Mix 
mayonnaise  with  desired  amounts  of  Parmesan  cheese,  onion,  and 
breadcrumbs.  Fill  tomatoes  with  mixture.  Place  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake 
at  400  degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes. 

Nola  Linker 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 69 


/  remember  one  particularly 
embarrassing  moment  years  ago 
when  I  rang  handbells  with  the 
MPPC  handbell  choir.   The  bell 
tables  were  set  up  directly  in 
front  of  the  pulpit,  and  we  were 
playing  a  piece  that  called  for 
an  unusually  fast  bell  change 
for  my  part.  Instead  of 
releasing  the  bell  as  I  brought  it 
down  to  the  table,  I  let  go  of  it 
as  I  lifted  my  arm  upward.   The 
bell  was  released  into  the  air 
and  began  to  turn  360s  over  the 
heads  of  my  fellow  ringers.  As  I 
continued  playing,  I  wondered 
whose  head  was  to  be  hit  by  the 
out  of  control  bell  or  how  loud 
the  clang  was  going  to  be  when 
the  bell  hit  the  slate  floor 
(thereby  cracking  the  bell!).  I 
am  sure  God  intervened,  as  the 
bell  landed  safely  in  front  of  a 
ringer  two  positions  up  from 
where  I  was  playing,  without 
hitting  any  bells  on  the  table. 
She  calmly  picked  up  the  bell, 
passed  it  to  the  player  on  her 
left,  who  passed  it  to  me  in  time 
to  play  the  bell  on  time.  Not  a 
note  was  missed.  I  was  so 
relieved,  but  wondered  then  if 
anyone  had  noticed  my  blunder. 
I  glanced  at  the  congregation 
and  saw  that  the  first  three  rows 
were  laughing  hysterically.  So 
much  for  our  bell  choir 's 
offering  a  meaningful  worship 
moment! 

Catherine  Harkev 


Easy  Tomato  Pie 


Ser\>es  Four  to  Six 


1  Pillsbury  refrigerated  pie  crust 

2  to  4  tomatoes,  depending  on  size 
Italian  seasoning 


1V4  cups  shredded  Mozzarella  cheese 
V*  to  '/3  cup  shredded  or  grated 
Parmesan  cheese 


Bake  pie  crust  according  to  package  directions.  While  crust  is  baking,  cut 
tomatoes  into  '/4-inch  slices  and  drain  on  paper  towels.  Dab  the  tops  dry 
also.  Put  1  layer  of  tomatoes  in  baked  pie  crust.  Do  not  overlap  -  this  is  a 
thin  pie.  Fill  in  large  gaps  with  smaller  pieces  of  tomato.  Sprinkle  Italian 
seasoning  on  tomato  layer.  Cover  with  Mozzarella  and  then  Parmesan 
cheese.  Bake  on  middle  rack  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes  until 
cheeses  are  bubbling  and  turning  brown  on  top. 

Goes  well  with  chicken,  pork,  or  beef  along  with  another  vegetable  like 
broccoli,  zucchini,  or  snow  peas.   The  whole  family  will  love  it. 

LeAnne  Laughlin 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Spinach 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


4  large  or  6  medium  ripe  tomatoes 
Salt  or  salt  substitute 
1  package  frozen  chopped  spinach 
Vi  to  %  cup  Pepperidge  Farms 
regular  stuffing 


1  cup  sour  cream 
Nutmeg  to  taste 
Dash  of  garlic  powder 
Dash  of  pepper 


Wash  tomatoes  thoroughly.  Cut  a  1  'A-inch  circle  around  the  stem  and 
scoop  out  insides.  Sprinkle  insides  with  salt  or  salt  substitute  and  turn 
upside  down  on  a  paper  towel  to  drain  for  1  hour.  Cook  spinach  and  drain 
thoroughly.  Mix  sour  cream,  stuffing,  nutmeg,  garlic  powder,  and  pepper. 
Add  spinach  to  mixture.  Stuff  tomatoes  with  mixture  and  bake  at  350 
degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Catherine  Harkev 


1 70    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Elegant  Vegetable  Dish 


Serves  Twelve 


3  to  4  small  potatoes 

1  pound  broccoli 
54  cup  butter 

2  medium  onions 

Vt  pound  mushrooms 

2  tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Vt  teaspoon  thyme 


1  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese, 

divided 
Vi  cup  cream 

1  cup  sour  cream 

2  ounces  chopped  walnuts 
'A  teaspoon  salt 

Vt  teaspoon  pepper 


Boil  potatoes  without  peeling.  Drain,  cool,  and  slice  lengthwise  into  Vi-inch 
slices.  Cook  and  drain  broccoli.  In  a  medium  saucepan,  saute  mushrooms 
and  onions  in  butter.  Remove  from  heat  and  blend  in  flour.  Add  lemon 
juice,  thyme,  half  the  grated  cheese,  cream,  sour  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Return  to  heat  and  simmer  until  it  starts  to  thicken.  Line  a 
greased  baking  dish  with  potatoes  and  cover  with  broccoli.  Pour  mushroom 
mixture  over  potatoes  and  broccoli.  Top  with  remaining  cheese  and 
walnuts.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Place  under  broiler  to  brown, 
if  desired. 

Sherri  Davies 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   171 


Peel  garlic  by  placing  the 
broad  side  of  a  chef's 
knife  or  other  flat  object 
over  each  clove  and 
striking  it  firmly  with 
your  hand. 

Sylvia  Dalton 


Herb  Roasted  Vegetables 


Senes  Nine 


2'/2  cups  zucchini,  sliced  Vi  inch 

thick 
IV2  cups  yellow  squash,  sliced 

'.-  2  inch  thick 
IV2  cups  red  bell  pepper,  cut  in 

1  inch  squares 
2  medium  onions,  peeled  and 

quartered 
1  cup  green  beans,  cut  1  inch  long 


1  cup  carrots,  sliced  ' :  inch  thick 

4  cloves  garlic,  minced 

3  tablespoons  balsamic  vinegar 

IV2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  2  teaspoon  each  dried  basil, 

oregano,  tarragon,  thyme, 

parsley,  rosemary 
V*  teaspoon  salt 
Va  teaspoon  pepper 


Toss  all  ingredients  and  place  in  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Cover  and  bake  at 
425  degrees  for  40  minutes.  Serve  as  a  side  dish  or  over  rice. 


Anne  McCoy 


Winter  Roasted  Carrots 

Yields  4</i  Cups 


Cooking  spray 

2  pounds  ready-to-eat  baby  carrots 

4  small  onions,  peeled 

6  cloves  garlic,  peeled 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 


1  teaspoon  dried  thyme 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  black  pepper 

2  teaspoons  balsamic  vinegar 


Spray  1  lxl3-inch  roasting  pan  with  cooking  oil  spray.  Place  carrots  in  pan. 
Cut  onions  in  quarters  and  then  cut  quarters  in  half  again.  Add  onion  pieces 
and  garlic  to  pan  with  carrots.  Drizzle  olive  oil  over  vegetables;  then 
sprinkle  thyme,  salt  and  pepper  over  them.  Stir  and  toss  until  vegetables  are 
coated  with  oil.  Bake  uncovered  at  475  degrees  for  12  minutes.  Remove 
pan  from  oven  and  stir.  Return  pan  to  oven  and  bake  12  more  minutes, 
stirring  every  4  minutes  until  carrots  begin  to  brown  and  are  tender. 
Remove  pan  from  oven  and  drizzle  vinegar  over  vegetables.  Toss  and  stir. 
Keeps  up  to  4  days  in  refrigerator. 

Sylvia  Dalton 


1 72    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


When  we  were  new  members  in 
1957,  one  of  the  most  important 
people  we  met  was  Miss 
Eleanor  Belk.  She  never  failed 
to  amaze  ns  with  her  ability  to 
introduce  by  name  every  person 
at  the  family  night  dinners,  time 
after  time.    What  a  memory  she 
had!  I  especially  remember  her 
unfailing  helpfulness  to  the 
Women  of  the  Church  (now 
Presbyterian  Women)  and  her 
ability  to  secure  such 
outstanding  speakers,  due  to  her 
many  friendships  throughout  the 
denomination.   Whether  she  was 
being  diplomatic  in  directing  a 
wedding  or  warm  and 
sympathetic  in  times  of  sorrow, 
Eleanor  always  knew  what  to 
say  and  said  it  beautifully  and 
with  loving  feelings  toward 


Kathyn  Preyer 


Roasted  Vegetables 

Serves  Ten 


VA  pounds  unpeeled  red  potatoes, 

cut  into  2-inch  pieces 
1  medium  red  onion,  cut  in  wedges 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  divided 
'A  teaspoon  plus  1  tablespoon  salt, 

divided 
1  pound  baby  carrots 
Vi  pound  baby  pattypan  or  yellow 

straight  neck  squash,  sliced 

or  cut  into  bite-sized  pieces 
Salt  to  taste 


lA  pound  green  beans,  stems 

trimmed 
2  large  red  peppers, 

cut  into  2-inch  pieces 
2  large  yellow  peppers, 

cut  into  2-inch  pieces 
1/4  to  2  tablespoons  fresh  minced 

thyme,  divided 
'/z  teaspoon  coarsely  ground  black 

pepper 
1  large  lemon,  thinly  sliced 


In  a  large  roasting  pan,  toss  potatoes  and  onion  with  1  tablespoon  oil  and  lA 
teaspoon  salt.  Sprinkle  'A  tablespoon  thyme  over  these  vegetables.  Roast 
1 5  minutes.  Combine  remaining  vegetables  in  a  bowl  with  2  tablespoons 
oil,  salt  to  taste,  pepper,  remaining  thyme,  and  half  the  lemon  slices.  Add  to 
vegetables  in  oven.  Roast  35  to  45  minutes  until  vegetables  are  golden  and 
tender,  stirring  twice  with  spatula.  Arrange  on  a  platter,  garnished  with 
remaining  lemon  slices. 

Note:  Feel  free  to  substitute  other  vegetables  you  may  have  on  hand.  Also, 
rosemary  can  be  substituted  for  thyme.  The  lemon  is  optional  for  taste  but 
improves  the  presentation. 

/  make  this  recipe  when  we  have  friends  over.  It  is  the  only  vegetable 
needed  and  it  requires  minimal  attention  while  it  cooks. 


Allison  Callicott  Or t lip 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 73 


Lib's  Vegetable  Casserole 

Serves  Eight 


1  can  shoepeg  corn 

1  can  French  cut  green  beans 

Vz  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1  medium  onion,  finely  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

'A  cup  sour  cream 


1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 
54  cup  grated  sharp  cheese 
Topping: 

Ritz  crackers  (6  or  8) 

%  cup  melted  butter 

1  package  slivered  almonds 


Drain  corn  and  green  beans.  Mix  first  8  ingredients  and  pour  into  a 
casserole  dish.  Refrigerate  for  two  or  more  hours.  Before  serving,  crumble 
Ritz  crackers  and  mix  with  melted  butter  and  almonds.  Sprinkle  on  top  of 
casserole.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

This  was  my  mother 's  recipe  and  I  've  served  it  to  my  family  every 

Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  for  35  years.  Periodically.  I've  suggested 

varying  the  menu  and  have  unanimously  been  chastened  and  chastised... 

so,  there  you  go. 

Sue  Dunaway 

Mixed  vegetable  Casserole 


2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  cup  chopped  celery 
32  ounces  mixed  vegetables, 
frozen  or  canned 


1  (7-oz)  can  water  chestnuts 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  cup  mayonnaise 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs 


Saute  onions  and  celery  in  butter  until  tender.  Combine  vegetables,  water 
chestnuts,  soup  and  mayonnaise.  Fold  in  onions  and  celery  and  pour 
mixture  into  a  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  the  top  is  brown  and  bubbly. 

Ruth  Morris 


1 74    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Baked  Apples 

8  golden  delicious  apples 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

or  more  if  desired 
Vi  cup  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  margarine  or  butter 
Vi  to  lA  cup  water 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Peel  apples  and  cut  into 
eighths.  Layer  in  a  baking 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  brown 
sugar  and  cinnamon  sugar. 
Cut  margarine  into  pieces  and 
place  on  top.  Combine  water 
and  lemon  juice  and  pour 
over  all.  Bake,  covered,  at 
400  degrees  for  30  minutes 
(do  not  preheat  oven). 
Uncover  and  bake  15  minutes 
longer. 

Ann  Stigall, 
Former  Associate 
Director  of  Music 


Apple  Cranberry  Casserole 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


3  cups  unpeeled  apples,  sliced 

2  cups  fresh  cranberries 

3A  cup  sugar 

Ys  to  Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 


1  to  IVi  cups  oatmeal 

Vj  cup  flour 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar 

Vi  to  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 


Place  apples  and  cranberries  in  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them. 
Melt  butter  or  margarine  and  mix  with  oatmeal,  flour,  brown  sugar,  and 
pecans.  Spread  topping  on  apples  and  cranberries.  Bake  uncovered  at  350 
degrees  for  45  to  60  minutes. 

Can  be  used  as  a  side  dish  or  dessert.  For  dessert,  add  whipped  cream. 
Additional  topping  may  be  needed  to  completely  cover  top  of  fruit  mixture. 

Shirley  White 
Betty  Cowden 

Christmas  Cran-Apple  Delight 


Serves  Eight  to  Twelve 


10  to  12  large  red  apples 
2  cups  fresh  cranberries 
VA  to  IVi  cups  sugar 
1  to  IVi  cups  oatmeal 


W  to  Vi  cup  flour 
Vi  cup  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  chopped  pecans 
Vi  cup  butter 


Cut  unpeeled  apples  into  bite-sized  pieces  (should  yield  about  3  cups). 
Mix  apples,  cranberries,  and  sugar.  Pour  into  2-quart  greased  baking  dish. 
Mix  oatmeal,  flour,  brown  sugar  and  nuts.  Sprinkle  over  fruit  mixture.  Dot 
with  butter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour. 

Great  with  turkey  -  you  think  you  are  eating  a  cherry  pie. 

Susan  Edahl 
Sally  Broadway 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 75 


Cranberry  Casserole 


3  cups  fresh  cranberries 

2  cups  unpeeled  apples,  diced 

VA  cups  sugar 

Vi  cup  water 

54  cup  oatmeal 


lA  cup  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  flour 
Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 
Vi  cup  margarine 


Mix  first  5  ingredients  and  put  into  2'/2-quart  round  casserole  dish. 
Combine  brown  sugar,  flour  and  nuts  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  fruit  mixture. 
Dot  with  margarine.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Brynne  Miles 

Festive  Curried  Fruit 

Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


1  (29-oz)  can  pear  halves 

1  (29-oz)  can  peach  halves 

1  (17-oz)  can  pitted  Royal  Anne 

cherries 
1  (20-oz)  can  pineapple  chunks 
1  (1 1-oz)  can  mandarin  oranges 
1  (17-oz)  can  apricots 


Vz  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  flour 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

1  teaspoon  curry  powder 

Vi  cup  white  wine 


Drain  all  fruit,  reserving  juice.  Measure  Va  cup  juice  and  set  aside. 
Combine  sugar,  flour  and  salt  in  medium  saucepan.  Add  reserved  %  cup 
juice  and  butter.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture 
boils.  Boil  for  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat,  and  stir  in 
wine  and  curry  powder.  Gently  stir  sauce  into  fruit  and  spoon  into  9x  13- 
inch  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

A  good  side  dish  with  ham  or  for  a  brunch.  May  assemble  ahead  of  time 
and  refrigerate.  Let  sit  at  room  temperature  30  minutes  before  baking. 

Pat  Blount 


1 76   Vegetables  and  Fruits 


When  Joe  and  I  came  to  MPPC 
in  1958,  Geri  Grady  (now  wife 
of  Dr.  D.  D.  Phillips)  was 
Director  of  Christian  Education 
for  high  school  students.   Geri 
had  come  herefrom  First 
Presbyterian  in  Winston-Salem, 
where  we  were  members,  and 
she  had  introduced  Joe  and  me 
at  a  Montreal  Conference  for 
Young  Adults.    We  visited  other 
Presbyterian  churches,  but  with 
Dr.  Fogartie,  Eleanor  Belli, 
Geri  and  MPPC 's  friendly 
congregation,  we  knew  we  would 
be  happy  here.   I  felt  honored 
that  Bess  Wliite,  president  of  the 
Women  of  the  Church,  invited 
me,  the  newest  member,  to  sit  at 
the  head  table  with  her  for  the 
fall  luncheon  meeting.  In  less 
than  a  year  we  were 
transferred,  but  we  returned  in 
1968  to  find  our  church  as 
dedicated  as  ever  and  even 
more  so  in  the  community. 
Much  to  my  delight  I  found  the 
same  wonderful  Bess  Wliite. 
One  day  after  a  meeting,  many 
of  us  were  trying  to  cross 
Providence  Road  to  get  to  the 
parking  lot,  but  cars  wouldn  7 
slow  for  us  without  a  traffic 
light.  Bess  put  up  her  white- 
gloved  hand  in  front  of  the 
approaching  cars  and  started 
crossing  the  street  with  the  rest 
of  us  gladly  following  her  lead. 
She  was  a  wonderful  friend  with 
a  great  sense  of  humor.  I  miss 
that  grand  lady. 

Rubv  Paul 


Hot  Fruit  Casserole 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  (15-oz)  can  sliced  pineapple 
1  (15-oz)  can  peach  halves 
1  (14-oz)  jar  spiced  apple  rings 
1  (15-oz)  can  pear  halves 
1  (15-oz)  can  apricot  halves 


2  tablespoons  flour 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

'A  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  sherry 


Drain  all  fruit.  Cut  pineapple  and  peach  halves.  Arrange  fruit  in  alternate 
layers.  In  top  of  double  boiler,  combine  sugar,  butter,  flour  and  sherry. 
Cook,  stirring,  until  thickened.  Pour  over  fruit  and  refrigerate  overnight. 
Before  serving,  bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  30  minutes  or  until  hot  and 
bubbly.  Keeps  well  for  several  days  or  freezes  well. 

Vicki  Smith 

Fresh  Pineapple  in  Madeira  Wine 

Sen'es  Four  to  Six 


1  large  fresh  pineapple 
1  cup  Madeira  wine 


1  cup  sugar 


Remove  rind  from  pineapple.  Take  out  the  eyes  and  discard.  Dice  the  pulp. 
Put  a  layer  of  pineapple  in  a  bowl  and  cover  with  sugar.  Alternate  the  two 
ingredients  in  the  bowl,  ending  with  sugar.  Pour  Madeira  wine  over  the 
pineapple  and  sugar.  Chill  for  several  hours  before  serving. 

Rubv Paul 


Vegetables  and  Fruits   1 77 


This  delicious  pineapple  dish 
has  welcomed  many  a  new 
member  to  our  family.    When 
Cooley,  now  12,  was  baptized,  I 
prepared  it  for  that  special  day. 
It  was  such  a  hit  with  young  and 
old  alike  that  I  fixed  it  for  the 
birth  and  baptism  of  each  of  my 
sister  Jamil's  five  children  as 
well  as  for  our  other  two 
children  's  baptisms  and 
Cooley 's  party  for  graduation 
from  5th  grade!  Now,  our  big 
family  gatherings  always 
include  the  pineapple  casserole 
with  the  request,  "Please, 
please  make  it  for  us! " 

Elaine  Walters 


Hot  Fruit  Casserole  -  Savannah 
Style 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


16  ounces  whole  cranberries 
6  ounces  pitted  cherries 

3  cups  chopped  red  apple 
6  ounces  pineapple  tidbits 

4  ounces  apricots,  chopped 
1  to  lVi  cups  sugar 


1/4  cups  oats 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar 

Vi  cup  flour 

Vi  cup  pecans,  chopped 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 


Wash  and  drain  cranberries.  Toss  fruits  with  sugar  in  mixing  bowl  and  pour 
into  buttered  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Combine  oats,  brown  sugar,  flour  and 
nuts.  Mix  until  crumbly.  Sprinkle  over  fruit  mixture.  Pour  melted  butter 
over  all  ingredients.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  approximately  1  hour. 

This  recipe  belonged  to  my  grandmother.  Myrtle  Browning  Weaver. 

Paillette  Weaver  Purgason 

Hot  Pineapple  Casserole 


Sen'es  Eight 


2  ( 20-0/ )  cans  pineapple  chunks 
6  tablespoons  pineapple  juice 
1  cup  sugar 
6  tablespoons  all-purpose  flour 


2  cups  grated  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 
1  cup  Ritz  or  Town  House  cracker 

crumbs 
'A  cup  butter,  melted 


Drain  pineapple,  setting  aside  the  juice.  Combine  flour,  sugar  and  juice. 
Add  cheese  and  pineapple  chunks  to  mixture,  stir  well,  and  spoon  into  a 
lightly  greased  casserole  dish.  In  a  separate  bowl,  mix  cracker  crumbs  with 
butter.  Sprinkle  over  top  of  casserole.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes. 


Delicious  and  easy.  A  crowd pleaser! 


Elaine  Waltc 


1 78    Vegetables  and  Fruits 


Doug  Marshall,  U.S.  Army,  one  of  many  church  members  who  served  in 
the  U.S.  Military 


179 


Vf  hen  the  sanctuary  was  first  built,  there  was  no  air  conditioning,  and  the 
hanging  lights  were  relatively  dim.  Since  the  trees  were  small  and  the  new 
sidewalks  were  bright  white  in  the  sunlight,  it  was  glaring  to  walk  outside 
from  the  11:00  worship  service.  Therefore,  the  Boy  Scouts  of  Troop  55  painted 
the  walks  green. 

John  Alexander 

My  friends,  Mom  and  Dad's  friends,  Aunt  Pauline's  friends,  Grandmother 
Grade's  friends  -  we  were  all  family  as  1  grew  up  in  this  congregation, 
knowing  almost  all  of  its  members.  As  a  young  girl,  I  looked  out  the  windows 
of  the  smaller  sanctuary  (two  short  aisles  at  that  time)  watching  the  trees  and 
feeling  such  peace.  Of  course,  Jas.  A.  would  at  times  disrupt  this  tranquility, 
but  since  I  hadn  't  the  foggiest  idea  usually  what  he  was  talking  about  (those 
intellectual  words),  1  could  "escape  "  outside  again.  Jas.  A.'s  daughter  Mary 
("Curly")  and  I  were  in  a  Sunday  school  class  that  always  ended  with 
sentence  prayers,  and  Mary's  were  so  beautiful  that  I  froze  trying  to  think  up  a 
few  words.  Curly  Jones  was  my  soul  mate,  and  we  had  crazy  times  in  the 
manse  next  door. 

Bettv  Dale  Presslv  Archer 


v    1  ~l  O     ~ 


l£B,    LvLCE    A_K_I2    L-AJST7- 


ii  it  it  ii  ii  it  ii  it  ii  ii  ii  ii  ii  mi  ii  iljlil 


One  Sunday  before  we  had  the 
new  sanctuaiy,  a  family  of  five 
was  ushered  down  the  side 
aisle.  Mr.  D.  D.  Phillips  was 
sitting  at  the  end  of  the  pew 
near  the  front,  and  he  got  up 
and  bowed  from  the  waist  to 
greet  them.  Mr.  Phillips  waited 
in  the  aisle  for  the  family  to  be 
seated;  then  there  was  no  room 
left  for  him.   Gracious  as 
always,  he  had  to  find  another 
seat  in  an  already  crowded 
church. 

Castelloe  Dowling 


Aunt  Jannie's  Company  Potatoes 


Seizes  Twelve 


8  medium  baking  potatoes 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

8  ounces  cream  cheese 

Milk 

2  eggs,  lightly  beaten 


2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

2  tablespoons  snipped  chives 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  (2.8-oz)  can  Durkee  onions 


Peel,  boil  and  mash  potatoes.  Add  butter  and  cream  cheese.  Whip  until 
smooth,  adding  milk  as  necessary.  Add  eggs,  flour  and  seasonings.  Place 
in  buttered  2  to  3-quart  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  to  30 
minutes  or  until  heated  through. 

Sunny  Lambeth  Allen 

Italian  Potato  Souffle 

Senses  Nine  to  Ten 


3  tablespoons  Parmesan  cheese 

3  eggs,  beaten 

9  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed 

Milk 

Butter 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
8  ounces  Mozzarella  cheese,  grated 
Pepperidge  Farm  Dressing  Mix 
or  breadcrumbs 


Combine  Parmesan  cheese,  beaten  eggs  and  mashed  potatoes  with  milk, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Layer,  in  buttered  casserole  dish,  Vi  potato  mixture, 
Mozzarella  cheese  and  remaining  potato  mixture.  Top  with  buttered 
Pepperidge  Farm  Dressing  mix  or  breadcrumbs.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45 
minutes.  May  be  made  a  day  ahead  and  refrigerated,  or  made  ahead  and 
frozen;  bring  casserole  to  room  temperature  before  baking. 


Double  this  recipe  to  easily  feed  twenty. 


Margaret  Parish 


1 82   Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


Party 
Potatoes 

Serves  Eight 

5  to  6  white  potatoes 
'A  cup  butter,  softened 
12  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  cup  sour  cream 
1  bunch  spring  onions, 

thinly  sliced 
Garlic  salt  to  taste 
Salt  to  taste 

Boil  potatoes.  Peel  off  skins 
and  mash  potatoes.  Add 
other  ingredients  and  mix 
well.  Put  in  casserole  dish 
and  bake  at  350  degrees  for 
30  to  45  minutes  until 
bubbly.  May  be  kept  in 
refrigerator  until  ready  for 
baking. 

Courtney  Scott 


Crispy  Parmesan  Potatoes 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


4  large  baking  potatoes 

Vi  cup  unsalted  butter,  melted 


Vi  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cut  potatoes  into  1/8-inch  thick  slices.  Do  not  peel.  Layer  potatoes  in 
9x1 3-inch  casserole  dish  and  drizzle  with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  with  foil  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 
Remove  foil  and  sprinkle  Parmesan  cheese  on  top.  Bake  uncovered  for  30 
minutes  more. 


These  potatoes  are  my  daughter's  favorite. 


Jan  Swetenbun 


Nana's  German  Potato  Filling 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


6  medium  potatoes 
2  large  onions,  diced 
2  celery  stalks,  diced 
Butter 


Salt 

legg 

Milk 

4  slices  bread,  toasted  and  cubed 


Boil  potatoes.  While  potatoes  are  boiling,  saute  onion  and  celery  in  butter 
until  lightly  browned.  Mash  cooked  potatoes  and  add  salt  to  taste.  Add 
egg,  butter  and  milk  to  potatoes,  beating  together  until  mixed  well.  Stir  in 
toast  cubes,  onion  and  celery.  Add  enough  milk  to  moisten.  Put  potato 
mixture  into  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Place  dabs  of  butter  on  top.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  potato  peaks  are  lightly  browned. 

This  can  be  ser\>ed  with  chicken  or  turkey  instead  of  stuffing. 

Peg  McCarty 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta   1 83 


Potatoes  Boulangere 


Va  pound  Swiss  cheese,  finely 

sliced 
Va  pound  onions,  finely  sliced 
1  pound  potatoes,  finely  sliced 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
VA  tablespoons  Dijon  mustard 


VA  cups  beef  or  chicken  broth 
Grated  Parmesan  cheese 
Breadcrumbs 
4  tablespoons  butter 
Chopped  parsley  and  paprika  for 
garnish 


Place  a  layer  of  Swiss  cheese,  a  layer  of  onions  and  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  with  a  little 
mustard.  Repeat  layers,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  potatoes.  Press  down 
firmly  and  pour  stock  over  all.  Cover  very  generously  with  Parmesan 
cheese  mixed  with  breadcrumbs.  Dot  with  butter.  Bake  uncovered  at  350 
degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Garnish  with  chopped  parsley  and  paprika. 


No! a  Linker 


*      * 


Potato  Casserole 


Serves  Eight 


1  (32-oz)  package  frozen, 

shredded  hash  brown  potatoes 
Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

1  (14.5-oz)  can  cream  of  chicken 

soup 

2  cups  sour  cream 


8  ounces  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 
1  medium  onion,  diced 
Topping: 

2  cups  corn  flakes 

V*  cup  melted  butter 


Mix  first  6  ingredients  together  in  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Top  with  corn 
flakes.  Pour  melted  butter  over  corn  flakes  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  1 
hour. 

Rich  and  hearty. 

Laura  Corsii 


1 84  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


/  remember  Hugh  McMcmaway 
standing  outside  the  Fellowship 
Hall  as  we  walked  into  7th 
grade  Sunday  school.  Every 
Sunday  he  would  say  the  same 
thing,  "Girls,  you  don  V  need 
lipstick  or  makeup  to  make  you 
pretty! "  I  also  remember  my 
Junior  and  Senior  High  Sunday 
school  teachers:  Ross  Smythe, 
Marshall  Gilchrist,  Bill  States 
Lee,  Bill  Cowden,  Richard 
Vinroot  and  Bill  White.  My 
friends  and  I  never  missed 
Sunday  school  or  vespers  on 
Sunday  night! 

Betsy  Freeman 


Roasted  Garlic  Potatoes 

Serves  Eight 


3  pounds  small  red  new  potatoes 

10  cloves  garlic 

5  fresh  oregano  sprigs  or 

2  teaspoons  dried,  crumbled 

oregano 


2  bay  leaves 

V*  cup  olive  oil 

Salt 

Freshly  ground  pepper 


Combine  potatoes,  garlic  and  herbs  in  shallow  roasting  pan.  (Be  sure  to  use 
a  roasting  pan  large  enough  to  hold  the  potatoes  in  a  single  layer).  Pour 
olive  oil  over  potatoes  and  toss  to  coat.  Season  generously  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Roast  at  450  degrees  for  about  45  minutes  or  until  potatoes  are 
tender  and  browned,  stirring  occasionally.  Transfer  potatoes  to  serving 
dish.  Discard  oregano  sprigs  and  bay  leaves.  Remove  roasted  garlic  from 
pan.  Chop  and  toss  with  potatoes.  Pour  oil  from  pan  over  potatoes.  Toss 
gently  and  serve. 

Betsy  Freeman 

Potato  and  Spinach  Casserole 

Sen'es  Eis,ht 


1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped 

spinach 
8  medium  potatoes,  peeled  and 

quartered 
'A  cup  margarine 


1  cup  sour  cream 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  teaspoon  dried  dill  weed 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
lA  cup  Parmesan  cheese 


Cook  spinach  according  to  package  directions.  Drain  and  squeeze  dry. 
Boil  and  drain  potatoes.  In  large  bowl,  combine  potatoes,  margarine,  sour 
cream,  cream  cheese,  dill,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  spinach.  Pour  into 
greased  2-quart  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  uncovered 
at  325  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Jocelvn  Hill 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta    185 


Cut  raw  sweet  potatoes  in 
half  and  boil  with  skins 
on.  When  fork  tender, 
drain  and  cool  to  touch. 
Skins  will  slide  off  easily. 

Adrienne  Davis 


Cindy's  Sweet  Potato  Casserole 


Serves  Twelve 


3  cups  cooked,  mashed  sweet 
potatoes 

1  cup  sugar 

lA  cup  margarine,  melted 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Vi  cup  milk 


1  teaspoon  salt 

Topping: 
Vi  cup  flour 
1  cup  coconut 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 
Vs  cup  margarine,  melted 
1  cup  brown  sugar 


Mix  first  7  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  9x1 3-inch  greased  baking 
dish.  Mix  together  topping  ingredients  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  of  potato 
mixture.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

This  is  always  a  hit  at  any  family  gathering.  It's  good  enough  to  eat 
for  dessert. 

Adrienne  Davis 

Crusty  Sweet  Potato  Casserole 


3  cups  sweet  potatoes 

1  cup  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

2%  tablespoons  margarine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vi  cup  milk 


2  eggs 

Topping: 

1  cup  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  self-rising  flour 
2%  tablespoons  margarine 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 


Peel,  slice  and  cook  potatoes.  Drain  well  and  add  sugar,  salt,  margarine, 
vanilla,  milk  and  eggs.  Blend  with  electric  mixer  or  whip  by  hand.  Pour 
potato  mixture  into  baking  dish.  Mix  together  topping  ingredients  and 
spread  over  potatoes.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes  until  brown 
and  crunchy  on  top. 

Dottie  Harloe 


Potatoes.  Rice  and  Pasta 


Sweet 

Potatoes  on 

Pineapple 

Rings 

2  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

%  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Pineapple  rings 

Mix  all  ingredients  together. 
Place  mixture  on  pineapple 
rings  using  ice  cream  scoop. 
Top  each  scoop  with  a  pecan, 
marshmallow  or  cherry. 
Bake  at  400  degrees  for  1 0 
minutes. 

Blanche  Frampton  Pepi 


Hannah's  Sweet  Potatoes 


Sei-ves  Eight 


3  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

(3  average-size  or  1  large  can) 
1  cup  sugar 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  cup  butter 
1  small  can  evaporated  milk 


1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  rum 
Topping: 

1  cup  dark  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  flour 
1  cup  pecan  pieces 
Vi  cup  butter,  melted 


Mix  first  6  ingredients  together  and  place  in  buttered  casserole  dish.  Mix 
topping  ingredients  and  sprinkle  over  potatoes.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35 
minutes.  Casserole  is  done  when  it  is  not  soupy  in  the  middle. 

These  sweet  potatoes  are  a  family  tradition.   They  're  delicious 
and  easy  to  double. 

Susie  Culp 

Orange  Sweet  Potatoes 


Sen>es  Eight 


1  large  can  sweet  potatoes,  drained 

1  teaspoon  syrup 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Vi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Vz  teaspoon  ground  cloves 


1  tablespoon  orange  juice 

8  halves  orange  shells,  cleaned  by 

orange  juice  squeezer 
Vi  bag  miniature  marshmallow s 


Mix  sweet  potatoes  with  syrup,  spices  and  juice.  Taste  and  adjust  spiciness 
and  sweetness  according  to  taste.  Place  cleaned  orange  shells  atop  standard 
muffin  tins,  using  every  other  hole.  Do  not  push  them  down  into  the  hole. 
Spoon  sweet  potato  mixture  into  each  shell,  mounding  it  so  that  it  looks  like 
a  ball.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Add  miniature  marshmallows 
over  top  of  each  potato-filled  orange  shell.  Brown  briefly  under  broiler. 
Serve  immediately. 

Margaret  Bigger 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta   1 87 


Sweet  Potato 
Pudding 

Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 

3  medium  sweet  potatoes, 
cooked  and  grated  or 
pureed 

VA  cups  sugar 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

3  eggs,  beaten 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  sweet  potatoes  and 
peel.  Grate  potatoes  on  small 
side  of  grater  or  puree  in 
blender.  Add  sugar,  butter, 
eggs  and  vanilla.  Put  in 
9x1 3-inch  casserole  dish  and 
bake  at  275  degrees  for  2  to  3 
hours.  Add  a  little  water  to 
potato  mixture  as  it  bakes  if  it 
gets  too  dry.  Pudding  should 
look  slightly  brown  on  top 
when  done. 

Anne  Patterson 


Mary  Campbell's  Sweet  Potato 
Casserole 


Senses  Ten  to  Twelve 


6  medium  sweet  potatoes 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Juice  and  some  rind  from  1  orange 
Juice  and  some  rind  from  1  lemon 

2  eggs 

lA  cup  butter 

'A  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Dash  of  nutmeg 


3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

Vi  to  Vi  cup  sherry 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple, 

drained 
Topping: 

lA  cup  chopped  pecans 

Marshmallows 


Boil  potatoes  in  skins  until  tender.  Peel  and  put  in  large  mixing  bowl.  Stir 
until  smooth,  add  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Place  in  9x1 3-inch 
greased  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Add  pecans 
and  marshmallows  to  top  and  bake  10  minutes  more.  You  can  make  this  a 
day  or  two  ahead,  but  you  will  need  to  increase  the  baking  time. 

My  mother-in-law.  Maty  Campbell,  got  this  recipe  from  her  mother  who 
was  a  caterer.  It  is  wonderful! 

Muffin  Campbell 

Sweet  Potatoes  with  Pecan  Topping 


3  cups  cooked,  mashed  sweet 
potatoes 

1  teaspoon  salt 

lA  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs,  beaten 

22/j  tablespoons  unsalted  butter 
1  cup  milk 


Dash  vanilla 

Topping: 

1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 
2%  tablespoons  butter 
XA  cup  self-rising  flour 


Mix  first  7  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  greased  9x1 3-inch  baking 
dish.  Mix  together  topping  ingredients  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  sweet  potato 
mixture.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes. 

Coco  Killian 


188  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


Brown  Rice 

Sen'es  Four 

6  tablespoons  margarine 
1  cup  raw  long  grain  white 

rice 
1  (IOV2-OZ)  can  beef  broth 

Melt  margarine  in  1 -quart 
casserole  dish.  Add  rice  and 
broth.  Mix  well.  Cover  and 
bake  at  325  degrees  for  1 
hour.  Easy  to  double. 

This  recipe  was  given  to  me 
by  my  mother-in-law.  Nita 
Lindsey,  and  has  been  shared 
at  many  MPPC  gatherings 
over  the  years.  It  is  one  of 
our  family 's  favorites. 

Vicki  Smith 


Baked  Brown  Rice 


Vi  cup  butter 
1  cup  brown  rice 
1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts, 
diced,  reserving  liquid 


1  (4-oz)  can  mushrooms, 

reserving  liquid 
1  can  onion  soup 


Drain  mushrooms  and  water  chestnuts,  reserving  liquid.  Add  water  to  make 
1  cup.  Melt  butter  in  large  saucepan.  Add  other  ingredients,  including 
vegetable  liquid  mixture,  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  shallow  baking  dish. 
Bake,  covered,  at  350  degrees  for  45  to  50  minutes. 

This  is  one  of  our  family 's  favorite  dishes.  It  is  versatile  and  can  be  used 
for  cookouts  or  holidays. 


Mary  Kelly 


Christmas  Rice 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


1  cup  regular  rice,  uncooked 

2  cans  chicken  with  rice  soup 
1  small  jar  mushrooms 

1  small  jar  chopped  pimentos 


1  green  pepper,  chopped 
1  medium  onion,  chopped 
Vi  cup  margarine 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  except  margarine  and  pour  into  baking  dish. 
Dot  with  margarine.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  to  60  minutes. 

Mom  always  sen>ed  this  rice  with  our  Christmas  meal  when 
I  was  growing  up. 

Regina  Thomasson,  staff 


Potatoes.  Rice  and  Pasta    1 J 


Company 
Baked  Rice 

Senses  Ten  to  Twelve 

1  Vi  cups  rice 

2  cans  cream  of  mushroom 

soup 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 
8  ounces  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Cook  rice  according  to 
package  directions.  Mix 
soup,  butter  and  cheese  with 
hot  rice.  Put  in  9x1 3-inch 
casserole  and  top  with 
pecans.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  30  minutes. 

This  dish  is  great  for 
company  or  holiday  dinners. 

It  was  a  hit  at  a  MPPC 

Sunday  School  covered  dish 

luncheon. 

Ann  Edgerton 


Holiday  Rice 


2  (14-oz)  cans  beef  broth 

2  cups  converted  white  rice 
1/4  tablespoons  butter 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

3  cloves  garlic,  minced 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 


1  red  pepper,  chopped 

1  yellow  pepper,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  Herbes  de  Provence 
lA  cup  heavy  cream 

2  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Bring  beef  broth  to  boil  and  add  rice.  Simmer  rice  for  20  minutes  or  until 
moisture  is  absorbed.  Saute  onion  and  garlic  in  butter  for  5  minutes.  Add 
green,  red  and  yellow  peppers.  Saute  until  the  peppers  are  soft, 
approximately  10  minutes.  Place  the  rice  in  a  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Mix 
in  peppers  and  onions.  Pour  cream  over  rice  mixture.  Add  Herbes  de 
Provence  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  5  minutes. 
Beat  eggs  and  add  to  rice.  Bake  for  an  additional  15  minutes.  Serve 
immediately. 

Anne  McPhail 

Lemon  Parsley  Rice 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


4  tablespoons  butter 
1/4  cups  rice 

1  cup  vermouth 

2  cups  homemade  chicken  broth 


1  teaspoon  salt 
Pepper  to  taste 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
Vi  cup  minced  fresh  parsley 


Melt  butter  in  skillet,  add  rice  and  saute  a  few  minutes.  Add  vermouth, 
broth,  salt  and  pepper  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  lemon  rind  and  parsley. 
Pour  into  baking  dish  and  bake  at  350  degrees  about  45  minutes  to  1  hour, 
or  until  all  liquid  is  absorbed. 

Nola  Linker 


1 90  Potatoes.  Rice  and  Pasta 


Garlic  Rice 

1  can  beef  broth 

1  soup  can  water 

1  cup  white  rice 

3  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt 

V-i  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cloves  garlic,  optional 

Combine  all  ingredients  and 
bring  to  boil  on  stovetop.  Put 
in  casserole  dish  and  bake  at 
350  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

The  garlic  is  optional. 
Children  really  like  this 
without  the  garlic  flavor. 

Louise  "Beezv"  Somerville 


Miss  Loma  Squires' 
Seaview  Inn  Herb  Rice 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  long  grain  rice 

2  cups  water 

3  chicken  bouillon  cubes 

1  cup  onion,  finely  chopped 


1  cup  celery,  chopped 
Vz  teaspoon  marjoram 
Vi  teaspoon  savory 
1  teaspoon  rosemary 


Saute  rice  in  butter  until  browned.  Set  aside.  Combine  next  seven 
ingredients  and  heat  until  bouillon  cubes  are  dissolved.  Bring  to  boil  and 
add  rice.  Cook  over  low  heat,  with  saucepan  uncovered,  for  14  minutes. 
Stir  occasionally.  Remove  from  heat  and  cover  for  10  minutes.  May  be 
made  ahead  and  reheated. 

Miss  Loma  Squires  was  a  dietician  at  Queens  College.  She  joined  Miss 

Thelma  Albright,  who  was  the  dean  at  Queens,  when  she  bought  the 

Seaview  Inn  at  Pawley's  Island.  It  was  known  for  delicious  food. 

DeeDee  McKay 

Rice  Pilaf 

Sen'es  Four  to  Six 


1  onion,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  long  grain  rice 

2  cups  chicken  broth 


1  cup  coarsely  chopped  pecans 
1  cup  cooked  peas  (optional) 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Saute  onion  in  butter  until  limp  and  translucent.  Add  rice  and  toss  in  pan 
until  lightly  browned.  Pour  in  broth  and  bring  liquid  to  boil.  Reduce  heat, 
cover  and  simmer  until  liquid  has  been  absorbed  into  rice,  about  18 
minutes.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  in  nuts  and  peas. 

Donna  Witman 


Potatoes.  Rice  and  Pasta   1 9 1 


Mary 

Claudia's 

Baked 

Steamed  Rice 

Semes  Si.\ 

Vi  cup  margarine 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

2  cans  beef  consomme 
V/i  to  2  cups  rice 

1  teaspoon  garlic  salt 
1  jar  mushrooms 

Saute  chopped  onion  in 
margarine  until  tender. 
Combine  remaining 
ingredients  and  pour  into 
baking  dish.  Cover  and  bake 
at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Claudia  Belk 


Ruth  O.'s  Rice  Pilaf 


Senses  Ten  to  Twelve 


Vz  cup  butter 

1  cup  fine  egg  noodles,  broken 
into  small  pieces 


2  cups  long  grain  rice 

4V2  cups  boiling  chicken  broth 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Melt  butter  in  a  large  pot  and  slowly  brown  noodles  until  golden.  Stir  often 
and  watch  carefully,  as  they  suddenly  brown  in  a  hurry.  Slowly  add  boiling 
broth.  Bring  to  a  good  quick  boil.  Stir  in  rice  and  turn  heat  very  low.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  about  25  minutes. 

Man'  Martin 


Microwave  Risotto 

Selves  Six  to  Eight 


2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  cup  uncooked  Arborio  rice 
Vi  cup  onion,  chopped 

3  cups  chicken  broth 


8  ounces  sliced  mushrooms 

1  cup  frozen  English  peas 

Vi  cup  freshly  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 
Vi  teaspoon  ground  pepper 


Microwave  butter  and  oil  at  high  for  2  minutes.  Stir  in  rice  and  onion. 
Microwave  at  high  4  minutes,  stirring  after  3  minutes.  Stir  in  broth. 
Microwave  at  high  for  10  minutes,  stirring  at  3-minute  intervals.  Stir  in 
mushrooms  and  microwave  at  high  for  8  minutes,  stirring  at  3-minute 
intervals.  Stir  in  peas.  Microwave  at  high  2  minutes.  Cover  and  let  stand  5 
minutes.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  pepper.  Serve  immediately. 

Pimkin  Brooks/lire 


1 92   Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


Noodles  and 
Rice 

3  tablespoons  butter 
Vi  cup  chopped  celery 
Vi  cup  chopped  onion 
1  cup  regular  long  grain 

white  rice 
VA  cups  water  or  chicken 

broth 
1  package  Lipton  Chicken 

Noodle  Soup  mix 

In  large  skillet,  saute  onions, 
celery  and  rice  in  butter  until 
slightly  brown.  Add  broth 
and  Lipton  soup  mix.  Mix 
well  and  bring  to  boil. 
Cover,  reduce  heat  and 
simmer  for  25  minutes  until 
liquid  is  absorbed. 

Barbara  Harris,  staff 


Wild  Rice  Casserole 


1  package  Uncle  Ben's  Wild  Rice 
1  pound  Neese's  Sausage 
Vi  pound  mushrooms 
Vt  cup  butter 


%  cup  flour 
2  cups  milk 
Vi  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 


Cook  rice  according  to  package  directions.  Cook  sausage.  Drain  fat.  Saute 
mushrooms  in  butter.  Add  flour  and  heated  milk.  Cook  until  thick  and 
smooth.  Add  Worcestershire  sauce,  sausage  and  rice.  Pour  into  greased 
casserole  and  bake  at  375  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

This  recipe  was  my  grandmother 's  recipe.  My  family  enjoyed  it 
at  holiday  gatherings. 

Noelle  Vandiver 

Barley  Casserole 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


Vi  pound  mushrooms 
4  to  5  tablespoons  butter 
1  large  onion,  finely  chopped 


1  cup  pearl  barley 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  to  3  cups  beef  or  chicken  broth 


Slice  mushroom  caps  and  stems.  Heat  butter  in  skillet.  Add  chopped 
onions  and  cook  3  to  4  minutes.  Add  mushrooms.  Cook  another  4  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Add  barley.  Brown  lightly,  mixing  well  with  onions 
and  mushrooms.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  buttered 
casserole.  Add  enough  boiling  broth  to  cover  and  come  Vi  inch  above 
mixture.  Cover  tightly  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  25  minutes,  until 
liquid  is  evaporated  and  barley  is  tender  (can  add  more  liquid  if  necessary). 
Serve  as  you  would  wild  rice.  May  be  made  ahead  and  reheated. 

Nancv  Elberson 


Potatoes.  Rice  and  Pasta    1 93 


Noodles  Romanoff 

Serves  Eight 


1  (8-oz)  package  noodles 

2  cups  chicken  broth 
1  dash  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  tablespoon  Grey  Poupon 
mustard 


1  small  clove  garlic,  minced 
1  cup  low  fat  cottage  cheese 
8  ounces  low  fat  sour  cream 

1  onion,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  minced  parsley 
Vi  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Cook  noodles  in  chicken  broth  with  nutmeg.  Drain.  Combine  noodles, 
broth  and  remaining  ingredients,  except  Parmesan  cheese.  Turn  into 
buttered  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Blythe  McCradie  Link 

Fettuccini  and  Spinach 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


1  (8-oz)  package  fettuccini  or 
rotini  noodles,  cooked  and  drained 

1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped 
spinach,  thawed  and  drained 

1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped 

'A  cup  vegetable  oil 


'A  cup  boiling  water 

Vi  of  a  vegetable  bouillon  cube 

'A  teaspoon  dried  basil  leaves 

1  cup  cottage  cheese 

Vz  teaspoon  salt 

Vt  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


In  large  skillet,  cook  spinach  and  garlic  in  oil  for  5  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  Dissolve  bouillon  in  water.  Add  bouillon  mixture,  basil, 
cottage  cheese  and  salt  to  spinach.  Stir  over  low  heat  until  blended.  Toss 
spinach  mixture,  grated  cheese  and  noodles.  Serve  in  heated  dish. 

Sue  McCoy 


1 94  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


Garden  Sauce  with  Fettuccini 

Semes  Six 


Vi  cup  olive  oil 

4  cloves  garlic,  chopped 

1  small  red  onion,  chopped 

1  carrot,  chopped 

1  small  zucchini,  cut  in 

%-inch  slices 
1  small  yellow  squash,  cut  in 

%-inch  slices 


'A  cup  chopped  parsley 

I  (28-oz)  can  diced  tomatoes 

1  (28-oz)  can  Furmano's  crushed 

tomatoes 
%  cup  chopped  fresh  basil 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Vz  small  bunch  broccoli  florets 
1  pound  spinach  fettuccini 


To  prepare  sauce,  heat  oil  in  large  pot  over  low  heat.  Add  garlic,  onion, 
carrot,  zucchini  and  squash.  Cook  15  minutes,  stirring  until  softened.  Add 
parsley,  tomatoes,  basil,  salt  and  pepper.  Raise  heat  to  medium  and  simmer 
25  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Add  broccoli  and  continue  cooking  for  10 
minutes  until  florets  are  tender.  Taste  and  adjust  seasoning.  Cook  pasta 
according  to  package  directions.  Drain  well  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Don 't  be  afraid  to  try  the  spinach  pasta.  It  doesn  't  taste  like  spinach. 

This  recipe  came  from  a  vegetarian  cookbook  where  the  chef-owner  says, 

"the  clients  sop  up  the  sauce  with  bread  they  love  it  so  much.  " 

I  feel  the  same  way! 


Audrey  Dougherty 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta   1 95 


Cheesy  Spinach  Lasagna 


Serves  Eight 


3  cups  tomato  sauce 

1  cup  water 

'A  cup  diced  onion 

Vi  cup  diced  celery 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  Italian  seasonings 

1  tablespoon  garlic  salt 

8  ounces  Mozzarella  cheese,  sliced 


9  whole  wheat  lasagna  noodles, 

uncooked 
3  cups  low-fat  cottage  cheese 

1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped 

spinach,  thawed  and  drained 
lA  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 

2  eggs,  beaten 


Mix  together  tomato  sauce,  onion,  celery,  olive  oil,  Italian  seasonings  and 
garlic  salt.  Simmer  15  minutes.  Add  1  cup  water  to  cooked  sauce.  Put  1 
cup  of  sauce  in  bottom  of  9x1 1 -inch  casserole  dish.  Layer  3  uncooked 
lasagna  noodles,  followed  by  1  cup  sauce  and  4  ounces  mozzarella  cheese. 
Add  another  layer  of  uncooked  noodles.  Mix  together  cottage  cheese, 
drained  spinach,  Parmesan  cheese  and  eggs.  Spread  spinach  mixture  over 
noodles  in  a  week's.  Add  another  layer  of  uncooked  noodles  and  rest  of 
tomato  sauce.  Top  with  remaining  mozzarella  cheese.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  50  to  60  minutes.  Let  set  for  15  minutes  to  cool  before  serving. 

Sandy  DuPiiy 


1 96  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


When  our  son.  She/ton,  was  five 
years  old,  he  asked  to  be 
baptized.  Since  we  were  not 
officially  church  members,  we 
said,  "OK,  for  your  birthday 
we  11  do  that.  "  We  took  the 
class  to  become  members;  and 
although  we  missed  his  6th 
birthday  in  February,  he  was 
baptized  shortly  thereafter.  He 
walked  down  the  center  aisle 
with  us  on  that  Sunday,  and  he 
is  still  very  active  as  a  high 
school  freshman  with  the  church 
youth  group  and  council. 

Pam  Metcalf 


LASAGNA  WITH  B  ESC  I  AM  ELLA  SAUCE 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  cup  chopped  onions 

%  cup  chopped  carrots 

%  cup  chopped  celery 

1  to  2  pounds  meat  (ground  beef, 

Italian  sausage,  or  chopped  ham) 
Vi  cup  dry  white  wine 
1  to  2  tablespoons  beef  bouillon 

crystals 
Salt,  pepper,  oregano,  basil  to  taste 
1  box  lasagna  noodles 
8  ounces  sliced  Mozzarella  cheese 


1  pound  10-oz  jar  prepared 

spaghetti  sauce 
1  to  VA  cups  grated  Mozzarella 

cheese 
Grated  Parmesan  cheese  to  taste 
Besciamella  Sauce: 

6  tablespoons  butter 

6  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  milk 

1  cup  heavy  cream 


Lightly  saute  onions,  carrots  and  celery  in  small  amount  of  butter.  In  a 
separate  pan,  cook  meat.  Drain.  Combine  meat,  vegetables  and  remaining 
ingredients.  Simmer  10  minutes.  Cook  1  box  lasagna  noodles  according  to 
package  directions.  Drain.  Spread  layer  of  spaghetti  sauce  (about  lA  inch) 
on  bottom  of  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Add  "spotty"  layer  of  Besciamella 
sauce.  Add  layer  of  noodles.  Add  layer  of  sliced  Mozzarella  cheese. 
Repeat  layers,  except  Mozzarella,  to  include  3  layers  of  noodles.  Top  with 
heavy  layer  of  Besciamella  sauce  and  cover  with  grated  Mozzarella  cheese. 
Sprinkle  with  heavy  layer  of  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes. 

Besciamella  Sauce 

Melt  butter  and  stir  in  flour.  Add  milk  and  cream,  beating  with  wire  whisk. 
Return  to  high  heat  and  cook,  stirring  constantly.  When  sauce  comes  to  boil 
and  thickens  to  a  smooth  cream,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  2-3  minutes. 
Remove  from  heat  for  use  with  lasagna. 

Pam  Metcalf 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta    197 


Spinach  Lasagna 

Serves  Eight 


1  (8-oz)  box  lasagna  noodles, 

cooked  and  drained 
1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  chopped 

spinach,  thawed  and  drained 
32  to  36  ounces  prepared 

spaghetti  sauce 


2  cups  Mozzarella  cheese,  grated 
Vi  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 

1  egg 

15  ounces  Ricotta  cheese 

2  cups  Monterey  Jack  cheese,  grated 


Cook  and  drain  lasagna  noodles.  Put  about  V*  spaghetti  sauce  in  bottom  of 
9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Add  layer  of  3  lasagna  noodles.  Cover  with  lA  of 
remaining  spaghetti  sauce.  Layer  1  cup  Mozzarella  cheese.  Layer  3 
lasagna  noodles.  Combine  Parmesan  cheese,  egg,  Ricotta  cheese,  1  cup 
Monterey  Jack  cheese  and  spinach.  Spread  on  top  of  lasagna  noodles. 
Layer  3  lasagna  noodles.  Layer  remaining  spaghetti  sauce.  Cover  and  bake 
at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Uncover  and  top  with  remaining  Mozzarella 
and  Monterey  Jack  cheese.  Bake,  uncovered,  for  an  additional  15  minutes. 


Pat  Blount 


Bistro  Chicken  with  Penne  and  Feta 

Semes  Six 


1  box  penne  pasta,  cooked  and 

drained 

2  cups  Roma  quartered  tomatoes 
1  package  Feta  cheese  with  basil 

and  tomato,  crumbled 
'A  to  %  cup  Caesar  salad  dressing 
'A  cup  red  onion,  chopped 


Vi  cup  fresh  basil  leaves, 

cut  in  strips 
V*  cup  sun-dried  tomatoes, 

drained  and  chopped 
2  or  3  pounds  boneless  chicken 

breasts  or  1  package  shortcuts 

chicken 


Grill  or  broil  chicken  and  cut  into  slices.  Mix  all  ingredients  together. 
Serve  warm  or  chilled. 

This  is  a  wonderful,  delicious  summer  pasta  dish. 

Luci  Heeseman 


1 98  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


Parmesan  Zing 
Pasta 

Serves  One 

1  can  chicken  broth 
'  .1  pound  vermicelli 
Juice  of  Vi  lime 
Parmesan  cheese  to  taste 
Salt  to  taste 

Bring  broth  to  a  boil.  Add 
pasta  and  salt.  Squeeze  half 
of  the  lime  juice  into  broth. 
Cook  for  10  minutes  or  until 
pasta  is  done.  Sprinkle 
bottom  of  bowl  or  plate  with 
remaining  lime  juice.  Add 
pasta  and  half  of  the  broth. 
Sprinkle  generously  with 
cheese. 

When  finished  with  pasta, 

drink  remaining  broth.    You 

may  slurp  it  but  don  't  tell 

your  mom! 

Meredith  Ashcraft 


Pasta  Passionata 


Serves  Four 


8  ounces  bow  tie  pasta 

%  cup  virgin  olive  oil 

2  cloves  garlic 

Yt  pound  chicken  breast,  boned 

and  skinned,  cubed 
3A  cup  sun-dried  tomatoes  in  oil, 

chopped 


1  54  cups  broccoli  florets 

1  teaspoon  basil 

1  pinch  red  pepper  flakes 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  white  wine 

'A  cup  chicken  broth 

1  tablespoon  butter 


Cook  pasta  according  to  package  directions.  Saute  garlic  in  oil.  Add 
chicken  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  broccoli  and  sun-dried  tomatoes.  Cook  a 
few  minutes.  Add  basil,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Add  wine,  broth  and  butter. 
Cook  5  minutes  and  toss  with  warm  pasta. 

Bindy  Woerner 

Pasta  with  White  Clam  Sauce 

Serves  Four 


2  cans  Progresso  white  clam  sauce 
1  can  Italian  stewed  tomatoes 
Vi  cup  vermouth  or  white  wine 
Dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce 
%  teaspoon  Italian  seasoning 


Vi  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  can  whole  baby  clams,  drained 
'A  cup  fresh  parsley 
Vermicelli,  cooked  al  dente 
Fresh  Parmesan  cheese 


Combine  first  6  ingredients.  Simmer  uncovered  for  40  minutes.  Add  clams 
and  parsley.  Cook  for  3  to  4  more  minutes.  Place  vermicelli  on  a  platter. 
Pour  clam  sauce  over  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese. 

Genevieve  Cummings 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta    1 99 


Pasta  Primavera  -  Alfredo 


Serves  Eight 


8  ounces  light  cream  cheese,  cubed 

1  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

Vi  cup  milk 

V*  cup  chopped  onion 


1  orange  sweet  pepper 
5  small  zucchini,  thinly  sliced 
1  (16-oz)  package  fettuccine, 
fusilli  or  rotini 


In  a  large  saucepan,  on  low  heat,  stir  together  cream  cheese,  Parmesan 
cheese,  butter  and  milk  until  smooth.  Add  chopped  onion  and  chopped 
orange  sweet  pepper.  Keep  sauce  warm  until  ready  to  serve.  Put  pasta  in 
boiling  water  and  add  zucchini.  Cook  until  done.  Drain  pasta  and  zucchini. 
Place  in  serving  bowl  and  add  sauce.  Serve  on  dinner  plates.  Sprinkle  with 
additional  Parmesan  cheese. 

Delicious  and  easy. 


Rachel  Emeiy 


Easy  Ravioli  Casserole 


Sen'es  Eight  to  Ten 


1  pound  ground  beef  (optional) 

1  (25-oz)  jar  spaghetti  sauce 

2  (16-oz)  packages  frozen  cheese 

ravioli 


2  cups  Mozzarella  cheese,  grated 
%  cup  Parmesan  cheese 


Brown  ground  beef  and  drain  thoroughly.  Add  spaghetti  sauce  to  meat  and 
simmer  15  minutes.  Cook  ravioli  according  to  package  directions  but 
remove  from  heat  5  minutes  before  end  of  cooking  time.  Drain  thoroughly. 
Cover  bottom  of  9x1 3-inch  casserole  dish  with  thin  layer  of  spaghetti  sauce. 
Layer  ravioli  in  single  layer  on  bottom  of  dish.  Cover  with  14  sauce,  14 
Mozzarella  and  14  Parmesan  cheese.  Repeat  layers.  Cover  and  bake  at  350 
degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes  until  hot  and  bubbly.  Can  be  frozen  or 
partially  baked  and  refrigerated  for  several  days. 

Marsha  Stiegel 


200  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


Aunt  Martha's  Baked  Spaghe- 


Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 


1  (20-oz)  can  tomatoes 
Vi  teaspoon  sugar 

Va  teaspoon  baking  soda 

2  teaspoons  salt 

5  tablespoons  margarine 
1  large  onion,  diced 

1  green  pepper,  diced 

2  pounds  ground  beef 


2  teaspoons  chili  powder 

1  (12-oz)  package  spaghetti,  cooked 

1  (4-oz)  can  mushrooms 

1  small  can  ripe  olives 

1  cup  whipping  cream 

Vi  cup  milk 

Va  pound  grated  American  cheese 


Cook  tomatoes,  sugar,  soda  and  salt  until  reduced  in  half.  Set  aside.  Saute 
onions  and  green  peppers  in  margarine.  Add  beef  and  brown.  Pour  tomato 
mixture  over  beef  and  add  the  chili  powder.  Continue  cooking  for  20 
minutes.  Add  the  cooked  spaghetti  and  put  all  in  a  deep  3-quart  casserole 
dish.  Top  with  ripe  olives  and  mushrooms.  Pour  milk  and  cream  over  all 
and  bake  at  300  degrees  for  1  hour.  Remove  from  oven,  top  with  grated 
cheese  and  serve. 

My  aunt  gave  this  recipe  to  my  parents  when  they  were  first  married,  and  it 

was  always  a  family  favorite.  My  mother  submitted  it  for  inclusion  in  First 

Presbyterian  Church  of  Gastonia' s  cookbook. 


Kathy  Gatelv 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta  20 1 


Light  and  Tasty  Spinach  Spaghetti 


Serves  Three  to  Four 


8  ounces  spaghetti  noodles, 

cooked  and  drained 
2  boxes  frozen  chopped  spinach, 

thawed  and  drained 
2  eggs  (can  use  Egg  Beaters) 
1  cup  reduced-fat  sour  cream 
Vi  cup  milk  (1%,  2%  or  skim) 


Vz  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  divided 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 

2  cups  2%  milkfat  Monterey  Jack 
cheese,  shredded 


Whisk  together  eggs,  sour  cream,  milk,  %  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  salt,  pepper 
and  onion.  Add  Monterey  Jack  cheese.  Add  spinach  and  cooked  spaghetti. 
Stir  well.  Pour  into  1  'A  or  2-quart  casserole  dish  sprayed  with  cooking 
spray.  Sprinkle  %  cup  Parmesan  cheese  on  top.  Bake  covered  at  350 
degrees  for  15  minutes.  Uncover  and  continue  baking  for  15  to  20  minutes. 

This  lighter  version  of  the  original  recipe  uses  half  the  cheese  and 
low  fat  sour  cream,  yet  still  tastes  good. 


Elizabeth  Chaplin 


202  Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta 


In  the  '50s  when  my  brothers, 
Tom  and  Harvey  Grasty,  and  I 
grew  up  on  Queens  Road  West, 
the  development  was  new,  with 
little  trees.   One  early  morning 
my  excited  mother  woke  me  and 
said,  "Quick,  look  outside; 
there 's  a  house  going  down  the 
street.  "  The  Junior  League  Hut 
was  being  moved  to  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian.   The  square, 
clapboard  house  was  to  be  used 
at  the  church  for  children  of 
elementary  school  age,  and  I 
have  fond  memories  of  playing 
house  there  with  fascinating  art 
projects  and  thrilling  Bible 
stories.    When  I  "graduated"  to 
the  older  folks  '  class,  our  room 
was  where  Gateway  is  now. 
Stella  Alexander  came  to 
Sunday  school  one  day  in  a 
wheel  chair  with  a  cast  on  her 
leg— an  instant  celebrity  in  first 
grade.   When  we  got  to  high 
school,  we  counted  on  eating 
Sunday  suppers  at  the  church 
and  hoped  that  spaghetti, 
everyone 's  favorite,  would  be 
served.  At  that  time,  the  kitchen 
and  great  hall  were  in  the 
basement  of  the  main  church 
building,  space  that  was  later 
divided  into  rooms  for  offices 
and,  after  the  CLC  was  built,  for 
adult  classes. 

Lucy  Grasty 


Spaghetti  Casserole 


2  tablespoons  butter 

1  clove  garlic 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Pepper  to  taste 

154  pounds  ground  beef 


2  (8-oz)  cans  tomato  sauce 
1  (8-oz)  package  spaghetti 

3  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
154  cups  sour  cream 

6  green  onions,  chopped 

54  pound  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 


Put  butter  in  cold  skillet.  Add  garlic  and  mash  with  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  until  butter  is  melted,  then  add  meat  and  brown.  Add  tomato  sauce 
and  simmer  uncovered  for  20  minutes.  Cook  spaghetti  according  to 
package  directions.  Combine  cream  cheese,  sour  cream  and  green  onions. 
Place  spaghetti  in  greased  9x1 3-inch  casserole.  Top  with  cream  cheese 
mixture  and  then  meat  mixture.  Sprinkle  Cheddar  cheese  on  top.  Bake 
uncovered  until  hot  and  bubbly,  about  30  minutes.  This  recipe  freezes  well. 
If  you  double  the  recipe,  you  can  make  three  8x8-inch  casseroles. 


Cambey  Gallagher 


Spaghetti  Casserole 


Semes  Six 


1  pound  spaghetti 
1  small  carton  cottage  cheese 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  cup  sour  cream 


54  cup  grated  onion 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
24  ounces  spaghetti  sauce 


Cook  spaghetti  according  to  package  directions.  Drain.  Combine  cottage 
cheese,  cream  cheese,  sour  cream  and  onion  and  set  aside.  Put  half  of 
spaghetti  into  2-quart  casserole.  Cover  with  cheese  mixture,  then  with  rest 
of  spaghetti.  Pour  on  melted  butter  and  top  with  your  favorite  spaghetti 
sauce.  Chill  in  refrigerator.  Take  out  30  minutes  before  baking.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  45  minutes.  This  freezes  well.  Reduced  fat  cream  cheese 
and  sour  cream  may  be  used  if  desired. 

Lucy  Grasty 


Potatoes,  Rice  and  Pasta  203 





While  in  grades  4-6  at  Eastover  School  (1941-44),  1  was  a  member  of  the 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church  Girl  Scout  Troop,  which  met  in  the  Scout  Hut 
one  afternoon  a  week  during  the  school  year.  We  proudly  wore  our  uniforms  to 
school  and  then  after  school  walked  up  to  the  church.  Our  leader  was  Mrs. 
Caldwell  Johnston  (Dickie),  a  wonderful  friend  and  teacher.  Our  most 
adventurous  outing  was  a  picnic  on  McAlpine  Creek  near  where  the  Olde 
Providence  Club  is  now.  We  rode  our  gearless  bicycles  out  Providence  Road 
with  no  concern  for  traffic.  There  weren  't  many  cars  past  Sharon  Lane  as  the 
city  limit  was  at  Briar  Creek,  and  also  gas  was  rationed.  Mrs.  Johnston  was  a 
member  of  Second  Presbyterian  Church  but  lived  near  MPPC  on  Providence 
Road.  Her  two  daughters  were  members  of  the  troop.  I  was  a  member  of 
Myers  Park  Baptist  Church,  but  the  only  Girl  Scout  troop  in  the  neighborhood 
was  at  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church. 

Jo  Claire  Dulin 


~ — 


>-* 


*+  jr* 


Girl  Scout  Troop  112  in  1953 


IT1  C  A\  1  *3     jf^. 


LT 


**:    "f< 


«§&    #' 


■  ]•■•■• 


Boy  Scout  Troop  55  in  1966 


Dr.  James  Fogartie  had  recently 
been  called  to  First 
Presbyterian  Church  in 
Spartanburg,  SC,  when  Osce 
and  I  married  there  in  April 
1975.   We  were  among  the  first 
couples  he  counseled  for 
marriage  in  my  home  church. 
Naturally  he  spoke  highly  of 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church  when  he  learned  we 
would  be  living  in  Charlotte. 
Although  we  visited  other 
churches,  we  were  most  warmly 
welcomed  at  MPPC.  I  felt  at 
home  here  as  the  Gothic  style 
resembled  the  church  where  I 
had  been  ve?y  active  as  a 
youth.  Also,  Dr.  Fogartie  must 
have  put  in  a  "good  word"  on 
our  behalf.  It  has  been  a 
wonderful  25  years  of 
membership.  Incidentally,  when 
we  joined  MPPC,  the  church 
was  planning  its  50th 
anniversary  celebration,  and  we 
were  put  into  action  right  away! 

Lou  Self 


Beef  Tenderloin 


Serves  Sixteen 


'A  cup  soy  sauce 

3  tablespoons  grated  peeled  ginger 

root 
V/i  teaspoons  fennel  seeds 
Vi  teaspoon  crushed  red  pepper 


'A  teaspoon  cracked  black  pepper 

'A  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  (5-pound)  whole  beef  tenderloin, 

trimmed  and  tied 
1  tablespoon  salad  oil 


In  a  large  plastic  bag,  mix  all  ingredients  except  oil.  Place  tenderloin  in  bag 
and  turn  to  coat  with  marinade.  Close  bag  and  place  in  a  large  baking  dish 
or  roasting  pan.  Refrigerate  6  to  8  hours  until  ready  to  roast,  turning  bag 
occasionally.  About  1  %  hours  before  serving,  place  tenderloin  on  rack  in 
large  roasting  pan.  Discard  marinade  and  bag.  Brush  tenderloin  with  salad 
oil.  Insert  meat  thermometer  into  thickest  part.  Roast  at  425  degrees  for  45 
minutes  to  1  hour  until  temperature  reaches  140  degrees  (rare). 

This  recipe  has  been  used  each  year  for  the  past  ten  years  at  our  "Easy 

Readers  "  Book  Club  annual  dinner.   The  fennel  seeds  and  ginger  root  add 

a  different  flavor. 

Linda  Wallace 

Joy's  Christmas  Tenderloin 


1  (4  to  4/4-pound)  beef  tenderloin 
Vi  cup  oil 

lA  cup  burgundy  wine 

2  tablespoons  grated  onion 


1  clove  garlic,  minced 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

5  drops  Tabasco  sauce  (optional) 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  allow  beef  to  marinate  in  refrigerator  at  least  2 
hours.  Remove  from  sauce.  Place  meat  in  a  shallow  pan  and  brush  with 
marinade.  Bake  for  15  minutes  at  450  degrees.  Reduce  temperature  to  350 
degrees.  Baste  with  marinade  occasionally  and  continue  baking  for  35 
minutes  for  medium  rare,  or  less  time  for  rare.  Serve  garnished  with 
sauteed  mushroom  caps  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Betsy  Freeman 


206  Meats  and  Poultry 


Lucy's  Chateaubriand 

Beef  tenderloin,  defatted,  tenderized 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper 

Cook  beef  in  middle  of  oven  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  45  minutes.  This  can 
be  done  ahead  of  time.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  under  the  broiler  for  10 
minutes  on  each  side.  Serve  immediately  with  mushroom  sauce. 

Mushroom  Sauce 

1  jar  mushroom  pieces  in  butter  2  teaspoons  flour 

1  can  beef  broth 

Saute  mushroom  pieces  in  butter.  Add  most  of  the  can  of  beef  broth  to 
mushrooms  and  continue  heating.  Slowly  mix  remaining  cold  broth  with  2 
teaspoons  of  flour  to  make  a  paste.  Add  a  little  hot  broth  from  mushroom 
pan  to  the  paste  and  mix.  Add  the  flour  paste  to  the  hot  broth  and 
mushrooms  in  pan  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  hot  water  or  flour  to  sauce 
until  thickness  is  right. 

Sue  Zielinski 

Filet  with  Cream  Sauce 

Seizes  Four 

4  filet  steaks  %  cup  whipping  cream 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  anchovy  paste 

In  a  frying  pan  on  high  heat,  cook  steaks  in  butter  to  desired  doneness. 
Remove  from  heat  and  keep  in  a  warm  oven.  In  the  same  frying  pan,  mix  2 
tablespoons  of  anchovy  paste  with  the  cream.  Simmer  on  low  heat,  adding 
pepper  and  very  little  salt  to  taste.  Serve  steaks  hot  covered  with  the  sauce. 

This  is  good  seized  with  rice  and  fresh  green  beans. 

Coco  Killian 

Meats  and  Poultiy  207 


Third  Grade  Sunday  School 
represents  an  important 
milestone  for  children.  In 
addition  to  receiving  our  own 
Bibles,  we  all  learned  the  23rd 
Psalm  under  the  direction  of  our 
teachers.  Bill  and  Sue 
McClelland. 

Steve  Stroup 


SUKIYAKI 

Serves  Six 


6  ounces  shirataki  (clear  noodles) 
3  pounds  beef  tenderloin  (or  eye  of 

round),  sliced  paper  thin 

against  grain 
Suet  or  oil  for  pan 
16  leeks  or  scullions,  cut  in  2-inch 

lengths 
3  cups  Chinese  cabbage,  cut  thin 
16  large  mushrooms,  thinly  sliced 


1  pound  fresh  spinach,  cut  in 

1-inch  lengths 
12  (1-inch)  cubes  tofu 
1  cup  soy  sauce 
Vi  cup  sake  or  white  wine 
%  cup  sugar 
1  to  2  cups  Dashi  (fish  broth  in  a 

tea  bag)  or  beef  bouillon 


Prepare  shirataki  ahead  by  soaking  1  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  cut. 
Arrange  meat  and  vegetables  attractively  on  large  platter(s).  Fill  container 
with  soy  sauce,  sake,  sugar,  and  dashi  mixture.  Preheat  electric  fry  pan. 
Prepare  with  suet  or  oil.  Divide  into  3  batches  and  cook  at  the  table  as 
follows:  Cook  'A  of  meat  for  1  to  2  minutes,  turning  over  and  over.  Add  lA 
of  liquid,  push  meat  to  side,  add  Vi  of  leeks  or  scallions,  mushrooms,  and 
Chinese  cabbage,  and  toss  for  one  minute.  Add  spinach,  tofu,  and  shirataki. 
Cook  and  toss  until  heated  through.  Pour  into  bowl  and  serve  while  you 
cook  batches  2  and  3.  Do  not  overcook.  Serve  with  white  rice  and  dessert. 

A  relaxing  meal  with  family  or  friends. 

All  the  cooking  is  done  at  the  table.  Everything  can  be  prepared  in 

advance.  Leftover  sukiyaki  is  prized  at  our  house! 

Jackie  Hada,  Children 's  Ministry  Director 


208   Meats  and  Poultry 


London  Broil 

1/4  to  2  pounds  London 

broil 
2  cups  Lawry's  teriyaki  sauce 

(with  pineapple  juice) 
1  tablespoon  minced  garlic 
1  tablespoon  dried  rosemary 

Score  London  broil,  making 
shallow  cuts  1  inch  apart 
across  both  sides  of  meat. 
Place  meat  in  marinade  bag. 
Mix  teriyaki  sauce,  garlic  and 
dried  rosemary  and  add  to 
bag.  Marinate  overnight  in 
refrigerator,  turning  bag 
once.  Put  on  grill  and  cook 
to  desired  doneness.  Eat  and 
enjoy. 

Bill  Peterson 


Marinated  Flank  Steak  for  Fajitas 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


VA  pounds  flank  steak  (can  also 

use  boneless  chicken  breast) 
3  cloves  garlic,  minced 
2  tablespoons  oil 


'A  cup  tomato  juice 
Vi  cup  lime  juice 
'/z  cup  soy  sauce 
Vi  cup  brown  sugar 


Score  each  side  of  steak  in  diamond  pattern.  Place  in  shallow  glass  dish. 
Combine  remaining  ingredients  and  pour  over  steak.  Marinate  overnight. 
(If  using  chicken,  marinate  only  2  hours).  Before  cooking,  drain  meat  and 
reserve  marinade.  Boil  marinade  in  small  saucepan.  Grill  steak  4  to  5 
minutes  each  side  (or  until  desired  doneness),  brushing  frequently  with 
marinade.  Slice  thinly  on  diagonal.  Serve  in  warm  tortillas  with  salsa,  sour 
cream,  grated  cheese,  lettuce,  avocado  (or  guacamole)  and  tomatoes 
drizzled  with  lime  juice. 

The  marinade  really  makes  the  difference  for  these  fajitas. 

Bunny  Church 

Tangy  Flank  Steak 


1  Vi  pounds  flank  steak 
Vi  cup  oil 

3  tablespoons  vinegar 
3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
2  tablespoons  soy  sauce 


2  tablespoons  dry  mustard 
1/4  tablespoons  parsley  flakes 
1/4  teaspoons  sugar 
1/4  teaspoons  salt  (optional) 
1  teaspoon  black  pepper 
Vi  teaspoon  garlic  powder 


Place  flank  steak  in  shallow  container.  Combine  other  ingredients;  pour 
over  steak.  Cover  and  chill  at  least  2  hours,  turning  several  times.  Grill 
over  hot  coals  6  to  8  minutes  per  side  or  until  desired  doneness.  Slice  thinly 
across  grain. 

Daphne  Little 


Meats  and  Poultry  209 


Mother's 

Barbecue 

Sauce 

Yields  About  2  Cups 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 
2  medium  onions,  chopped 
1  clove  garlic,  crushed 

(optional) 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  cup  vinegar 
1  cup  ketchup 
Vi  cup  soy  sauce 
1  lemon,  sliced 

Melt  butter  in  medium 
saucepan.  Saute  onions  until 
tender.  Add  remaining 
ingredients.  Simmer  for  30 
minutes.  Refrigerate  unused 
portion. 

When  I  asked  my  family 

which  family  recipe  they 

thought  of  first,  this  one  of 

my  mother,  Mimi  Houston 's, 

won  hands  down!  It 's  great 

on  any  kind  of  meat. 

Punkin  Brookshire 


Lean  Cranberry  Pot  roast 


Senses  Six 


Wi  pounds  London  broil  steak, 

trimmed  of  all  visible  fat 
Vi  cup  ruby  port  wine 
2  cups  canned  beef  broth 
1  cup  chopped  onion 


1  cup  whole  berry  cranberry  sauce 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  mixed 

with  3  tablespoons  water 
4V2  cups  hot,  cooked  extra  wide 
noodles 


Heat  a  large  nonstick  skillet  over  medium  heat.  Add  London  broil  and  sear 
for  5  to  6  minutes  per  side,  until  both  sides  are  very  brown.  Lightly  coat  a 
large  baking  dish  with  cooking  spray.  Transfer  meat  to  baking  dish. 

Reduce  heat  to  low  and  pour  port  wine  into  skillet,  using  a  wooden  or 
plastic  spoon  to  scrape  up  any  brown  bits  from  skillet.  Bring  wine  to  a  boil. 
Add  beef  broth  and  onion  and  simmer  3  to  4  minutes  or  until  onion  is  soft. 
Stir  in  cranberry  sauce,  breaking  it  into  small  lumps.  Pour  broth  mixture 
over  meat.  Seal  completely  with  several  layers  of  aluminum  foil  so  that 
cooking  broth  doesn't  evaporate. 

Bake  30  minutes  at  375  degrees.  Reduce  heat  to  325  degrees.  Bake  Wi 
hours  longer.  Drain  meat  and  pour  cooking  broth  into  a  saucepan.  Bring 
the  broth  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  cornstarch.  Cook  30  seconds  or  until  broth 
thickens  to  consistency  of  gravy.  Serve  meat  with  sauce  and  noodles. 

Nancy  Ellis 


2 1 0  Meats  and  Poultry 


Beef  Stew 

Serves  Six 

2  pounds  stew  beef 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  can  mushroom  soup, 

undiluted  (use  more  if 

needed) 
1  package  Lipton  onion 

soup  mix 
lA  cup  burgundy  wine 
Carrots 
Onions 
Potatoes 

Mix  beef  with  other 
ingredients.  Bake,  covered, 
at  350  degrees  for  VA  to  4 
hours  until  meat  is  tender. 
Add  more  liquid  if  needed. 

Peggy  Pierce 


Mary  Akers'  Lazy  Day  Stew 

Serves  Six 


2  pounds  stew  beef  cubes 

5  carrots,  peeled  and  cut  in  pieces 

5  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  pieces 

2  onions 

1  teaspoon  sugar 


Salt  and  pepper 

1  (8-o/)  can  tomato  sauce 

1  can  water 

2  teaspoons  quick-cooking  tapioca 


Arrange  beef  cubes  in  a  single  layer  in  flat  baking  dish  or  13x9-inch  pan. 
Top  with  chunks  of  carrots,  potatoes  and  onions.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper.  Pour  tomato  sauce  and  water  over  everything.  Top  with 
tapioca.  Seal  with  foil.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  2V£  to  3  hours  or  at  200 
degrees  all  day. 

Serve  with  salad  and  fruit  for  a  delicious  dinner. 

Margaret  Akers  Hardage 

Never  Fail  Beef  Stew  with  Red  Wine 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


VA  to  2  pounds  lean  stew  beef, 

cubed 
Flour  for  dredging 
1  medium  onion,  minced 

1  clove  garlic,  minced 

2  tablespoons  oil 

7  to  8  mushrooms,  sliced 


2  (8-oz)  cans  tomato  sauce 
2  cups  red  wine 
'A  teaspoon  oregano 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  pound  carrots,  sliced  julienne 
style 


Coat  meat  with  flour.  In  a  Dutch  oven,  saute  meat,  onion  and  garlic  in  oil 
until  browned.  Meanwhile,  saute  mushrooms  separately.  Add  tomato  sauce 
and  wine  to  Dutch  oven  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  remaining  ingredients, 
except  carrots,  to  Dutch  oven.  Cover  and  simmer  for  1  lA  to  2  hours.  Add 
carrots  for  the  last  V%  hour  of  cooking. 

Kate  Reilly 


Meats  and  Poultry  211 


beef 
Reschauffe 

Serves  Four 

2  pounds  dried  round  steak 
1  clove  garlic,  chopped 
1  onion 
1  (4-oz)  can  mushrooms, 

with  liquid 
1  (8-oz)  can  tomato  sauce 
1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

sauce 
1  teaspoons  salt 
1  cup  sour  cream 
Vi  cup  sherry 

Place  steak,  garlic  and  onion 
in  roasting  pan.  Combine 
mushroom  liquid,  tomato 
sauce,  Worcestershire  and 
salt  and  pour  over  meat. 
Cook  until  meat  is  tender, 
about  Wi  hours.  Add  sour 
cream  and  sherry  the  last  few 
minutes. 

Use  8  pounds  of  beef  for  16 
people.  This  was  one  of  my 
mother's  favorite  recipes  for 
large  groups,  book  club,  or 
church  circle.  Can  be 
prepared  in  advance. 

Rodney  Pitts 


Old-Fashioned  Beef  Stew 


'/j  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

V*  teaspoon  ground  pepper 

2  pounds  stew  beef 

4  tablespoons  shortening 
4  cups  boiling  water 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 


1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  large  onion 

2  bay  leaves 

lA  teaspoon  allspice 
12  small  carrots 
12  small  white  onions 
8  small  new  potatoes 


Mix  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  beef  cubes  in  mixture.  Melt  shortening 
over  high  heat  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Add  beef  5  or  6  pieces  at  a  time  -  do  not 
crowd.  Brown  all  sides  and  remove.  When  last  batch  of  meat  is  a  rich  dark 
color,  return  all  to  pot.  Add  boiling  water  and  stir.  Add  lemon  juice, 
Worcestershire,  onion,  bay  leaves,  and  allspice.  Reduce  heat,  cover,  and 
simmer  IV2  to  2  hours.  Add  carrots,  onions  and  potatoes.  Cook  another  30 
minutes. 

Sherri  Davies 

Beef  Stroganoff 


4  tablespoons  margarine 

IV2  pounds  top  round,  cut  in  cubes 

2  medium  onions,  diced 

2  beef  bouillon  cubes 

1  cup  hot  water 
Vi  cup  red  wine 

2  tablespoons  flour 


1  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  ketchup 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

1  cup  sliced  mushrooms,  sauteed 

in  butter  and  garlic  salt 
1  cup  sour  cream 


Melt  shortening.  Brown  beef  and  onions.  Dissolve  bouillon  cubes  in  hot 
water  and  add  red  wine.  Pour  over  beef.  Sprinkle  with  flour,  salt,  ketchup 
and  Worcestershire.  Stir  until  thickened  and  continue  to  cook  on  low  heat 
until  beef  is  tender.  Add  sour  cream  and  mushrooms  just  before  serving. 
Serve  over  noodles. 

This  is  my  mother  Sarah  Blythe  Williamson 's  recipe  and  is 
a  family  favorite. 

Sally  Porter 


2 1 2  Meats  and  Poultn' 


Barbecued 
Beef  Brisket 

Serves  Four 

1  beef  brisket 

1  medium  bottle  ketchup 

1  medium  onion 

1  bay  leaf 

3  tablespoons  oil 

Put  oil  in  electric  fry  pan. 
Brown  beef  on  both  sides. 
Add  whole  bottle  of  ketchup. 
Slice  onion  and  add  to  skillet. 
Add  bay  leaf.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  4  hours.  Add 
water  as  it  cooks  down. 

Stephany  Templeton 


BEEF  STROGANOFF 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  can  mushrooms 

2  pounds  sirloin  steak  or  tips, 

cut  into  pieces 
Flour 
4  tablespoons  margarine 


1  can  beef  broth 
1  pinch  dried  onion  flakes 
1  pinch  garlic  powder 
8  ounces  sour  cream 


Saute  mushrooms  until  their  juice  is  gone.  Remove  from  pan.  Dredge  meat 
in  flour  and  brown  in  melted  margarine.  Add  broth,  onion  flakes  and  garlic 
powder.  Simmer  meat  about  30  minutes  until  tender.  Add  sour  cream  and 
mushrooms  and  heat  until  thick.  Serve  over  rice. 

Every  year,  we  get  to  ask  my  mom  for  a  special  birthday  meal.  And  every 

year,  for  almost  31  years,  I  have  asked  Mom  to  make  beef  stroganoff  My 

friends  now  ask  for  it  too.   Too  bad  Shawn  is  a  vegetarian. 

Peter  Henry,  Former  Associate  Pastor 

Barbecued  Meat  Loaf 

Serves  Six 


VA  pounds  lean  ground  beef 
2  slices  bread,  broken  into  small 

pieces,  or  54  cup  breadcrumbs 
Vz  small  onion,  finely  chopped 
'A  can  Italian  stewed  tomatoes, 

pureed  in  blender 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  pepper 
1  egg,  beaten 


Sauce: 
2  tablespoons  mustard 
2  tablespoons  cider  vinegar 
'A  cup  ketchup 
%  cup  brown  sugar 
Vi  teaspoon  Worcestershire 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  sauce.  Shape  into  a  loaf.  Place  in  a  baking 
dish  and  bake  uncovered  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  Drain  fat.  Mix  sauce 
ingredients  and  pour  over  meat  loaf.  Bake  an  additional  1 5  minutes. 

Cheiyl  Steele 
Meats  and  Poultry  2 1 3 


It  seems  like  yesterday  but  it 
was  1950  when  we  moved  to 
Charlotte  with  two  small 
children.  Art  had  retired  from 
the  Army:  D-Day  on  the  beach 
at  Omaha,  through  France  to 
Germany,  and  then  home  to 
work  for  Southern  Bell 
Telephone  Co.  On  our  first 
Sunday,  we  attended  Myers 
Park  Presbyterian 's  Sunday 
school.  Art  joined  the  Men 's 
Bible  Class,  and  I  joined  the 
Lockhart-Gammon  Class— the 
only  two  adult  classes  for  years 
and  where  our  fondest 
memories  were  made.  So  many 
dear  ladies  were  important  in 
my  life  and  the  church 's  life.  I 
wish  I  could  honor  them  all  by 
naming  them,  many  "pillars  "  of 
the  church,  as  well  as  the  dear 
young  men  who  taught  our  class 
and  still  do  good  works  for  the 
church.  Art  and  1  moved  to 
Asheville  for  a  few  years,  and 
when  we  returned,  I  went 
immediately  back  to  Lockhart- 
Gammon  on  Sunday  carrying  a 
wee  baby  girl  in  my  arms. 
"What  a  beautiful  grandchild,  " 
they  exclaimed.    "No,  no,  "  I 
said,  "I  did  it  myself.  "  Our 
oldest  daughter  was  13  and  our 
son  9  at  the  time.  Both 
daughters  many  years  later 
were  married  in  our  magnificent 
sanctuary. 

Betty  Jolley 


MONTREAT  BEEF  BARBECUE 


Senes  Twelve  or  More 


6  pounds  very  lean  stew  beef 
Sauce: 

1  cup  ketchup 

3  teaspoons  regular  mustard 


3  tablespoons  vinegar 

4  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  onion,  diced 

'/s  cup  sugar 


Put  stew  beef  in  large  pot.  Fill  with  cold  water,  cover  and  bring  to  slow 
boil.  Cook  slowly  until  meat  is  very  tender  and  flakes  with  a  fork.  Pour  off 
water  and  wipe  out  the  heavy  film  that  is  in  the  pot  with  a  paper  towel. 
Flake  beef  into  strips. 

Mix  sauce  ingredients  in  a  saucepan.  Cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes  until 
onions  are  tender.  Pour  sauce  over  the  beef.  Reheat  beef  and  sauce,  stirring 
often  to  avoid  burning.  Serve  on  onion  rolls  or  similar  buns. 

Holds  in  refrigerator  a  long  time  like  any  barbecue  and  freezes  nicely. 
Double  it  and  feed  a  crowd. 

I  named  this  recipe  for  Montreal  years  ago  because  we  have  gone  there 

every  July  for  many  years.  My  grandchildren  always  have  me  invite  their 

club  groups  with  their  counselors  for  supper.   There  are  hundreds  of  junior 

high  and  senior  high  young  people  and  staff  who  have  loved  this.  I'll  do  it 

again  three  tunes  this  July  -  for  junior  high,  for  senior  high,  and  now  one  is 

a  counselor,  so  I'll  have  all  the  counselors  separately  one  night.   What 

makes  this  easier  for  me  is  that  I  always  have  this  crowd  on  a  Friday  night 

so  that  they  eat  and  all  run  to  the  Square  Dance. 

Betty  Jolley 


214  Meats  and  Poultry 


Meat  Loaf 

Serves  Five  to  Six 


154  pounds  ground  chuck 

'A  teaspoon  salt 

Pepper  to  taste 

legg 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vt  cup  onion,  chopped 

54  cup  oats 


54  cup  milk 

Topping: 

1  cup  ketchup 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
2  teaspoons  white  vinegar 


Combine  and  mix  meat  loaf  ingredients.  Form  into  loaf.  Bake  for  15 
minutes  at  350  degrees.  Mix  topping  ingredients.  Spread  on  top  of  meat 
loaf  and  continue  to  bake  for  45  to  55  minutes. 


Easy  and  good! 


Stella  Ledford,  staff 


J.T.  Little's  Sweet  and  Sour 
Meat  Loaf 


Sauce: 

1  (8-o/.)  can  tomato  sauce 
V*  cup  packed  brown  sugar 
V*  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  mustard 
Meat  Loaf: 

2  pounds  ground  beef  or 

1  pound  beef  and  1  pound  pork 


1  medium  onion,  chopped 

1  clove  garlic,  minced 

Vi  cup  crushed  saltines  (12  crackers) 

1  egg,  slightly  beaten 

154  teaspoons  salt 

%  teaspoon  ground  pepper 

1  dash  Worcestershire  sauce 


Mix  sauce  ingredients  and  set  aside.  Combine  meat  loaf  ingredients  and 
mix  in  ONLY  54  cup  of  prepared  sauce.  Place  in  loaf  pan  and  pour 
remaining  sauce  over  top.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  45  minutes,  basting  once 
during  cooking. 

This  is  a  family  favorite...  yummy  with  fluffy  mashed  potatoes. 

Nancy  Little 
Meats  and  Poultry  2 1 5 


My  dad,  Charles  Akers,  came 
downstairs  one  snowy  morning 
and  asked  four  excited  kids  who 
wanted  to  go  to  church  with 
him.    "Not  me! "  we  all  said. 
We  didn  V  have  many  chances  to 
play  in  the  snow,  but  his  quiet 
acceptance  made  me  change  my 
mind.  He  and  I  bundled  up  and 
walked  hand  in  hand  to  church, 
where  he  shook  hands  with 
greeters  and  was  energized.  He 
loved  the  church  environment 
and  being  around  people  of  the 
community,  and  I  was  happy  to 
be  by  his  side.   We  settled  in  the 
first  pew  of  the  balcony  under 
the  comfort  of  the  great  wooden 
beams  and  colorful  stained 
glass  windows.  I  unpacked  my 
pocketbook  and  set  up  my  art 
shop.  1  sketched,  colored  and 
imagined  as  the  grand  organ 
played,  the  lessons  were  read 
and  the  sermon  was  preached. 
I  didn  't  understand  all  of  the 
minister 's  complicated  words, 
but  I  knew  my  dad  was  listening 
intently  and  enjoying  the  service 
with  his  arm  around  my 
shoulder.   That  Sunday  morning 
shared  with  Dad  was  rare  in  a 
family  of  four  children  and  a 
traveling  father.   The  magical 
qualities  of  nature,  architecture, 
music,  art,  religion  and 
community  came  together  to 
create  a  lifetime  memory  for  me. 

Mary  Catherine  (M.  C)  Hawes 


Heirloom  Meat  Loaf 


Serves  Six 


1  pound  ground  chuck 

Vz  pound  lean  ground  pork 

3A  cup  saltine  crackers,  crushed  fine 

Vi  medium  onion,  grated 

1  teaspoon  salt 

V*  teaspoon  black  pepper 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

%  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Bacon  strips  (enough  to  cover) 


Tomato  Sauce: 

1  (4-oz)  can  tomato  sauce 
1  tablespoon  prepared  mustard 
1  tablespoon  brown  sugar 
1  tablespoon  fresh  lemon  juice 
1  tablespoon  white  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Vz  cup  water 


Mix  all  meat  loaf  ingredients  except  bacon  in  a  large  bowl.  Place  in  greased 
loaf  pan  and  cover  with  bacon  strips.  In  a  smaller  bowl,  mix  together  sauce 
ingredients.  Bake  loaf  at  350  degrees  for  IV2  hours,  basting  with  tomato 
sauce  after  first  15  minutes  of  baking.  Continue  basting  every  30  minutes 
until  all  sauce  is  used. 

This  is  a  family  treasure  and  goes  back  3  generations.  For  an  extra  fine 

texture  meat  loaf,  I  always  have  the  butcher  triple  grind  the  chuck  and  pork 

together.   This  is  what  makes  it  a  "signature  "  meat  loaf. 

Gloria  Dowd  Keith 


2 1 6  Meats  and  Poultry 


On  Wednesday  nights  when  Jim 
Fogartie  and  Eugene  Daniel 
were  our  ministers,  we  had 
family  night  suppers  with  great 
participation.   We  'd  see  all  our 
friends  there.  Ann  Killian, 
Janie  Ranson,  Katie  Lane, 
Jimmy  Fogartie  and  Glenn 
Boone  were  fun  classmates  of 
mine.   We  went  to  the  same 
schools,  church  retreats  and 
Sunday  night  vespers  held  at  the 
old  manse,  where  the  children 's 
playground  is  now.   Montreat  is 
a  special  place  to  my  family  and 
sons  Jonathan  and  Scott.  It 's  a 
place  to  rock  hop,  hike, 
paddleboat  or  just  sit  inside  the 
Inn  and  get  to  know  someone 
new  while  working  on  a  jigsaw 
puzzle.  My  parents,  Mary  and 
Charlie  Akers,  went  every  year 
and  stayed  with  friends;  so  we 
all  got  to  enjoy  Montreat 
together.  Mother  played  the 
piano  every  year  for  the  Friday 
night  hymn  sing,  and  fiends 
came  together  at  that  time  to 
sing  favorite  church  songs.  She 
loved  to  share  her  music  talent 
when  needed.  My  father 
remembered  summers  spent  in 
Montreat  as  a  young  boy  when 
his  Presbyterian  minister  father, 
William  Wirt  Akers,  went  there 
for  conferences  and  study. 
Daddy  told  us  about  the  days 
when  swimming  was  allowed  in 
Lake  Susan. 

Margaret  Akers  Hardage 


Cheese  Meat  Loaf 


Serves  Four  to  Five 


legg 

1  pound  ground  chuck 

1  cup  crushed  Waverly  wafers 

V*  cup  chopped  green  peppers 

V*  cup  chopped  onion 

l'/j  teaspoons  salt 


%  teaspoon  pepper 

Vi  cup  grated  cheese 

IV*  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  small  can  V-8  juice 

1  pinch  basil  leaves  (optional) 


Beat  egg.  Add  other  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Put  in  greased  loaf  pan  and 
bake  uncovered  for  45  to  50  minutes  at  about  350  degrees. 


This  is  a  very  moist  meat  loaf. 


>b     "b     "b     >b 


Lillian  Ha r ley 


Ground  Beef  Casserole 

Yields  1  Large  or  2  Small  Casseroles 


2  pounds  ground  round  steak 
1  pound  macaroni  or  other  pasta 
1  onion,  chopped 
1  pound  mushrooms,  sliced 
1  package  onion  soup  mix 


2  cans  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  green  pepper,  seeded  and  chopped 
1  pound  Cheddar  cheese,  shredded 
Pepper  to  taste 


Brown  ground  beef  and  drain  off  all  grease.  Cook  macaroni  according  to 
package  directions,  drain  well  and  put  in  a  very  large  bowl.  Saute  onion 
and  mushrooms  until  soft.  Add  to  macaroni  along  with  ground  beef. 
Sprinkle  with  onion  soup  mix.  Add  cream  of  mushroom  soup  and  green 
pepper.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper.  Pour  into  1  or  2  baking  dishes  and 
sprinkle  cheese  over  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Some  people  like  to  saute  the  green  pepper  before  adding  it  to  the 
casserole.   Uncooked,  it  adds  a  bit  of  crunch. 

Gail  Murchison 


Meats  and  Poultry  2 1 7 


Cheesy  Shepherd's  Pie 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


2  pounds  hamburger 
1  onion,  diced 

1  box  4-Cheese  Mashed  Potatoes 
(Betty  Crocker  brand) 


1  pound  white  American  cheese, 

sliced 

2  cans  corn 


Brown  hamburger  with  onion.  Prepare  both  packets  of  mashed  potatoes. 
Layer  hamburger  and  onion  in  bottom  of  large  casserole  dish.  Top 
hamburger  with  9  slices  of  cheese,  completely  covering  hamburger.  Layer 
corn  on  top  of  cheese.  Layer  mashed  potatoes  on  top  of  corn.  Cover 
casserole  with  lid  or  aluminum  foil.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  20  minutes. 
Remove  cover  and  bake  an  additional  1 0  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn 
potatoes. 

Kristina  Piper-Osorio,  staff 

Hamburger  Stroganoff 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


Vt  cup  butter 

'A  cup  green  onions 

1  clove  garlic,  minced 

Vi  pound  sliced  mushrooms 

1  pound  ground  chuck 

lA  can  beer 


3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  (10-oz)  can  beef  consomme 

1  teaspoon  pepper 

54  teaspoon  salt 

%  pound  medium  noodles 

1  cup  sour  cream 


Saute  onion,  garlic  and  mushrooms  in  butter.  Add  meat;  brown  and  drain. 
Add  liquids,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  15  minutes.  Add  noodles,  cover,  and 
cook  for  7  minutes.  Stir  in  sour  cream. 


My  family  loves  this  easy  dish. 


Beverly  Darlington 


2 1 8  Meats  and  Poultry 


Isabel  and  Nena's  Chiles  Rellenos 

Serves  Eight 

4  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

8  chiles  poblanos  4  eggs,  separated 

1  pound  ground  beef  'A  cup  all-purpose  flour 

1  medium  onion,  diced  1  cup  vegetable  oil 

3  cloves  garlic,  minced  and  divided  8  ounces  sour  cream 

1  medium  potato,  peeled  and  diced  1  bay  leaf 
1  teaspoon  cumin 

Put  whole  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan.  Cover  with  water.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Take 
off  heat  but  leave  tomatoes  in  hot  water  while  continuing.  Wash  peppers 
and  leave  stem  on  throughout.  Put  peppers  in  a  medium-hot  dry  skillet. 
Move  and  turn  peppers  until  all  sides  are  seared,  about  10  minutes.  Take 
out  peppers  and  wrap  with  a  damp  clean  dishtowel.  Put  wrapped  peppers  in 
a  plastic  grocery  bag  to  retain  heat  and  moisture. 

Brown  beef  in  skillet  and  drain.  Return  beef  to  skillet.  Add  onion,  2  cloves 
minced  garlic,  potato,  cumin,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  simmer  15  minutes  to 
soften  potato.  Peel  outer  skin  off  peppers.  Make  a  small  slit  in  side  and 
pull  out  all  seeds.  Stuff  with  beef  mixture,  but  not  so  full  that  slit  bulges 
open. 

Whisk  egg  whites  until  frothy.  Add  yolks  and  whip  again  until  firm. 
Sprinkle  flour  on  peppers  to  coat.  Heat  oil  in  skillet.  Dip  one  pepper  in  egg 
bath.  Place  in  hot  oil.  Spoon  hot  oil  over  egg  coating  to  cook.  Place 
pepper  on  paper  towel  and  pat  to  drain  and  collect  excess  oil.  Put  pepper  in 
casserole  dish.  Repeat  with  remaining  peppers. 

Peel  skin  off  tomatoes.  Take  out  core.  Put  in  blender  or  food  processor. 
Add  1  clove  minced  garlic  and  sour  cream.  Blend  into  a  sauce  with  few 
remaining  chunks  of  tomato.  Pour  into  a  clean  skillet.  Add  bay  leaf.  Bring 
to  a  simmer.  Pour  over  peppers  and  serve.  If  made  ahead  and  chilled,  heat 
in  a  300-degree  oven  for  30  minutes. 

I  grew  up  in  Mexico  City.   This  is  the  equal  to  our  old  Southern  style 

cooking.  It  is  truly  authentic,  so  do  not  substitute  green  bell  peppers  for  the 

chiles  poblanos.    We  serve  it  with  black  beans  and  salsa. 

Dee-Dee  Harris 
Meats  and  Poultry  2 1 9 


Spinach  Fandango 

Serves  Eight 


2  pounds  ground  beef 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

1  (4-oz)  can  mushroom  pieces, 

drained 
1  teaspoon  oregano 


2  (10-oz)  packages  frozen 

chopped  spinach 
1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 
8  ounces  sour  cream 
8  ounces  shredded  or  sliced 

Mozzareila  cheese 


Brown  beef  in  large  skillet  over  medium-high  heat,  stirring  to  crumble. 
Add  onions,  drained  mushrooms  and  oregano  and  cook  another  5  to  1 0 
minutes  until  onions  are  soft.  Lay  spinach  on  top  of  ground  beef  mixture 
(may  be  thawed  ahead  of  time,  but  not  necessary).  Cover  with  lid.  Let 
steam  until  spinach  is  thawed  and  mixes  easily  with  the  ground  beef 
mixture.  Drain  as  much  liquid  from  the  mixture  as  possible.  Stir  in  soup 
and  sour  cream.  Spoon  mixture  into  8x1 2-inch  baking  dish  and  put  cheese 
on  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until  cheese  is  bubbly  and  beginning  to  brown. 
Serve  over  wide  egg  noodles  with  crusty  French  bread. 

My  mother-in-law,  Nita  Lindsey,  gave  me  this  recipe  when  Greg  and  I  were 

married  25  years  ago.  It  has  become  a  family  favorite  and  is  what  my 

daughter  Helen  always  asks  me  to  prepare  for  her  birthday. 

Vicki  Smith 


220  Meats  and  Poultrv 


When  our  daughter  Eleanor  was 
married  in  1967,  Eleanor  Belk 
was  on  vacation  and  we  had  a 
substitute  director.  Not  being 
as  experienced  as  Miss  Belk, 
she  waited  until  the  wedding 
party  was  ready  to  go  down  the 
aisle  before  handing  out 
bouquets  and  found  we  were 
one  short!  She  telephoned  the 
florist,  who  said  because  of  so 
many  weddings  that  day,  their 
flower  supply  was  depleted  but 
they  would  see  what  could  be 
done.   The  director  whispered  to 
the  organist  to  continue  playing 
appropriate  selections,  and  we 
have  often  wondered  what  the 
guests  must  have  thought  while 
sitting  through  that  hour-long 
recital.  Had  the  wedding  been 
canceled?  Had  the  groom 
failed  to  show  or  had  the  bride 
fainted?  Finally  a  taxi  arrived 
with  flowers.   Tears  were  dried, 
and  a  smiling  wedding  party 
was  ready  to  proceed.  Our 
daughter  Kathi,  the  maid  of 
honor,  marched  down  the  aisle 
holding  an  armful  of  long- 
stemmed  yellow  roses  tied  with 
a  yellow  ribbon.  During  the 
reception  in  the  Panel  Room, 
several  guests  remarked  how 
unusual  and  beautiful  it  was  to 
have  the  maid  of  honor  carry  a 
contrasting  bouquet. 

Blanche  and  Michael  Pepi 


Burgundy  Meat  Balls 


1  pound  ground  chuck 

Vt  cup  fine,  dried  bread  crumbs 

'A  cup  minced  onion 

1  teaspoon  corn  starch 

Few  grains  of  allspice  or  nutmeg 

1  large  egg,  slightly  beaten 

%  cup  milk 


1  teaspoon  salt,  divided 
'/,  cup  salad  oil 

3  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  water 

1  cup  Burgundy  wine  (optional*) 

2  beef  bouillon  cubes 
Dash  of  pepper 


Combine  the  first  seven  ingredients  and  lA  teaspoon  of  the  salt.  Shape  into 
30  to  32  small  balls,  using  a  rounded  teaspoon  of  mixture  for  each.  Brown 
the  meatballs,  not  too  many  at  a  time,  in  the  heated  oil;  transfer  to  a  plate  to 
keep  warm  as  they  are  browned. 

Blend  flour  with  fat  remaining  in  skillet.  Stir  in  water,  Burgundy,  bouillon 
cubes,  remaining  Vi  teaspoon  salt,  and  pepper.  Cook  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Arrange  meatballs  in  sauce;  cover  and  simmer  30  minutes.  Serve  with  rice 
or  fine  noodles.  *  If  wine  is  not  used,  substitute  1  cup  water  and  an  extra 
bouillon  cube. 

This  has  been  a  favorite  with  our  family  for  over  forty  years. 

Blanche  Frampton  Pepi 


Meats  and  Poultry  22 1 


Porcupine 
Meatballs 

Selves  Four 

1  pound  ground  beef 
Vi  cup  uncooked  rice 
1  tablespoon  minced  onion 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  shortening 
2  (8-o/)  cans  tomato  sauce 
1  cup  water 

Mix  beef,  rice,  onion,  salt  and 
pepper.  Form  into  small 
balls.  Melt  shortening  and 
fry  meatballs  until  light 
brown  (not  crusty)  on  all 
sides.  Add  tomato  sauce  and 
water  and  mix  well.  Cover 
and  simmer  about  45 
minutes. 

Wes  Kennev 


Swedish  Meat  Balls 


Serves  Six 


1  pound  beef 
1  pound  lean  fresh  pork 
1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs 
1  medium  onion,  minced 

legg 

%  teaspoon  marjoram 
%  teaspoon  basil 
l'/z  teaspoons  salt 


1  Vi  teaspoons  black  pepper 
lA  cup  thin  cream 

3  tablespoons  butter 
VA  cups  hot  water 

2  bouillon  cubes 
Vt  cup  sour  cream 

3  tablespoons  flour 


Have  butcher  grind  beef  and  pork  together  twice.  Combine  meat,  crumbs, 
egg,  herbs,  salt,  pepper  and  then  cream.  Mix  thoroughly  and  shape  into 
balls  about  the  size  of  walnuts.  Brown  on  all  sides  in  butter  and  place  balls 
in  casserole  dish  as  they  brown.  After  all  are  in  casserole,  add  flour  to 
butter  in  pan.  Stir  well  and  add  bouillon  cubes  that  have  been  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Mix  and  boil  3  minutes.  Stir  in  sour  cream.  Pour  over  meatballs 
and  reheat  in  oven. 

Nancy  Josephs 

Katharine's  Chili  Sauce 

Yields  About  6  Quarts 


1  peck  firm  ripe  tomatoes 

2  pounds  white  onions 

2  stalks  celery 

3  or  more  hot  peppers 

3  tablespoons  Coleman's  mustard 
1  box  pickling  spices,  tied  in  bag 


3  cups  white  sugar 

1  pound  green  and  red  peppers 
3'/i  cups  vinegar 

Va  cup  salt 

2  tablespoons  black  pepper 


Chop  tomatoes,  onion,  celery,  peppers  and  hot  peppers  into  small  pieces. 
Mix  all  ingredients  in  large  heavy  pot  and  cook  until  thick.  Pour  into  quart 
jars  and  seal. 

This  was  Ed  Weisiger  's  mother 's  recipe.   Great  on  meats,  potatoes  and  just 
about  anything.  I  made  some  this  summer.  It 's  wonderful! 

Agnes  Weisiger 


222  Meats  and  Poultry 


Kitty's 

Oriental  Pork 

Tenderloins 

.Serves  Six  to  Eight 

2  whole  pork  tenderloins 

Marinade: 
Vz  cup  ketchup 
2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
2  tablespoons  soy  sauce 
Vi  teaspoon  ground  ginger 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 

Combine  marinade 
ingredients.  Pour  over 
tenderloins  and  marinate  8 
hours.  Spray  roasting  pan 
with  cooking  spray.  Bake  45 
minutes  at  400  degrees  or 
until  internal  meat 
temperature  reaches  1 60 
degrees,  basting  frequently. 
Let  meat  stand  10  minutes 
before  slicing.  Slice  meat 
diagonally. 

Jan  Swetenburg 


Easy  Pork  Tenderloin 


1  pound  pork  tenderloin 
Vi  cup  soy  sauce 

2  tablespoons  apple  cider  vinegar 
1  tablespoon  whole  grain  mustard 


1  tablespoon  brown  sugar 

2  cloves  garlic,  chopped 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  large  zip-lock  bag.  Marinate  in  refrigerator  for 
1  to  2  hours,  turning  once.  Place  tenderloin  and  marinade  in  roasting  pan. 
Bake  covered  at  325  degrees  for  45  minutes,  removing  cover  halfway 
through  cooking  time.  Baste  at  least  once. 

This  recipe  uses  ingredients  that  are  usually  on  hand  in  the  kitchen,  making 

it  easy  to  put  together.  Boil  the  remaining  marinade  to  use  as  a  tasty  sauce 

or  base  for  gravy  for  potatoes  or  other  side  dishes. 


Sally  Helweg 


Pork  Tenderloin  with 
White  Wine  Sauce 


Sewes  Two  to  Four 


1  (10  to  12-oz)  pork  tenderloin, 

cut  in  1-inch  thick  rounds 

2  tablespoons  flour 
Salt  and  pepper 

V*  cup  butter 

1  large  shallot,  chopped 


1  (2'/2-oz)  can  sliced  mushrooms, 

drained 
%  teaspoon  dried  rosemary, 

crumbled 
V*  cup  dry  white  wine 
%  cup  canned  chicken  broth 


Pat  pork  dry.  Place  flour  in  plastic  bag.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place 
pork  in  bag;  close  tightly  and  shake.  Melt  butter  over  medium  heat  in  large 
heavy  skillet.  Add  pork  and  shallot  and  cook  4  minutes.  Turn  pork  over. 
Add  mushrooms  and  rosemary  and  cook  until  mushrooms  are  just  soft, 
about  1  minute.  Mix  in  wine  and  broth  and  simmer  until  pork  is  cooked 
through,  about  3  minutes. 

Erwin  Williams 


Meats  and  Poultry  223 


/  watched  the  Fogartie  family, 
who  always  sat  on  the  front  pew 
in  the  sanctuaiy,  gazing  upward 
attentively  as  their  dad  gave  the 
sermon.  I  also  enjoyed  the 
freedom,  as  a  teenager,  of  being 
allowed  to  sit  with  my  friends  in 
the  balcony  during  worship. 
Mrs.  Stigall  was  very  good 
about  getting  us  to  "enunciate  " 
our  words  at  youth  choir 
practice! 

Janet  Prever  Nelson 


Marinated  Pork  Tenderloin 
with  Peach  Chutney 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


1  or  more  pork  tenderloins 
%  cup  orange  juice 
Vi  jar  hoisin  sauce 

1  tablespoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  vermouth 


1  tablespoon  honey 
1  tablespoon  chopped  garlic 
Handful  of  fresh  rosemary 
Black  pepper 


Combine  sauce  ingredients.  Pour  over  pork  and  marinate  overnight.  Grill 
over  low  heat  for  about  5  to  7  minutes  each  side  or  bake  in  oven  until  done 
according  to  meat  thermometer.  Serve  with  Peach  Chutney. 

Peach  Chutney 


2  large  dried  yellow  onions 

1  to  2  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

2  (8-0/.)  cans  sliced  peaches 
4  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
4  tablespoons  white  sugar 

1  tablespoon  molasses 


V*  cup  raisins 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper 
'  .i  teaspoon  allspice 
54  cup  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 


Chop  onions  and  saute  in  oil.  Add  peaches  and  cook  4  minutes.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  except  lemon  juice.  Simmer  uncovered  over  low  heat 
1  hour.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  lemon  juice. 


Mary  Lou  Lindsey 


224  Meats  and  Poultry 


Growing  up  in  Charlotte  has 
been  wonderful!  My  family 
(parents,  sister  and  I)  moved 
here  and  joined  MPPC  in  1968, 
and  my  childhood  memories  of 
Sunday  include  Dr.  Fogartie  as 
minister,  sitting  in  the  balcony 
with  my  best  friend,  Lee 
Stallworth  Moore,  and  Mom 's 
southern  lunch.  Now  my 
parents  have  died,  my  best 
friend  has  moved  to  Sullivan  's 
Island  and  I  no  longer  live  in 
the  house  where  I  grew  up;  but  I 
still  have  this  precious  church 
and  church  family.  As  I  sit  with 
my  husband  and  son  at  MPPC, 
passing  on  the  tradition  my 
family  started  for  me,  I  count  my 
many  blessings. 

Susan  ("Woozie ")  Dell 


Pork  Tenderloin  with  Cinnamon 


2  pounds  pork  tenderloin 
4  tablespoons  sugar 
%  teaspoon  salt 
4  tablespoons  soy  sauce 
1  '/•  teaspoons  cinnamon 


2  tablespoons  sherry 

1  teaspoon  powdered  ginger 

2  teaspoons  dry  mustard 
2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 


Place  pork  in  roasting  pan.  Combine  all  remaining  ingredients  and  pour 
over  pork.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour,  basting  frequently  with  sauce, 


Carol  Crawford 


Pork  Roast  and  Herbs 

Serves  Eight  to  Twelve 


1  (4  to  6  pound)  pork  roast, 

boned  and  rolled 
1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  natural  stone  ground  mustard 

2  tablespoons  sage 


2  tablespoons  rosemary 
1  tablespoon  garlic  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 
'/>  teaspoon  pepper 


In  medium  bowl,  mix  brown  sugar,  mustard  and  all  herbs,  salt  and  pepper. 
Unroll  pork  roast  and  spread  half  of  the  sauce  inside.  Re-wrap  and  spread 
other  half  of  sauce  over  top  and  around  roast.  Bake  roast  uncovered  at  350 
degrees  for  approximately  3  hours  (allowing  45  minutes  per  pound)  until 
internal  temperature  reaches  185  degrees.  Sauce  may  be  spread  on  roast 
several  hours  ahead  of  time.  Wrap  and  refrigerate  until  ready  to  cook. 

A  friend  who  is  one  of  the  best  cooks  J  know  gave  me  this  recipe.  I  have 

served  it  at  "Supper  Club  ",  to  which  we  (and  the  Mills  and  the  Selfs)  have 

belonged  for  almost  20  years. 

Vicki  Smith 


Meats  and  Poultry  225 


Pork  Loin  a  la  Debrecen 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  (2V2-pound)  boneless  pork  loin 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  piece  of  spicy  smoked  sausage 
3  large  onions,  quartered 


6  cloves  garlic 

1  teaspoon  caraway  seed 

4  tablespoons  oil 

1  cup  dry  white  wine 


Rinse  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  for  lA  hour.  With  a  long, 
narrow  knife  blade,  make  a  cut  into  the  center  of  the  loin  and  insert  the 
sausage.  Brush  with  oil,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  caraway  seeds,  and  place 
in  a  heavy  pan.  Put  onion  quarters  and  garlic  cloves  in  pan  around  pork. 
Add  wine,  cover  pan,  and  braise  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  After  1  hour, 
remove  cover  and  bake  at  425  degrees,  basting  with  its  own  gravy,  for  25 
to  30  minutes  or  until  brown.  Remove  meat  from  pan  and  let  stand  for  10 
minutes.  Cut  into  medium  slices.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  gravy. 

Also  delicious  as  a  cold  dish,  and  decorative  on  a  buffet  table.  In  this  case, 

we  cut  it  into  thin  slices  and  cover  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  aspic  jelly  to  keep 

it  from  getting  too  dry. 

Isabella  Gaal 

Isabella  Gaal  is  a  member  of  the  Great  Church  in  Debrecen,  Hungary,  and 

is  a  teacher  in  the  middle  school  of  the  Reformed  Church.  She  served  this 

pork  loin  to  several  members  of  the  MPPC  delegation  when  they  visited 

Debrecen  in  October  2000.  Her  son  Peter  served  as  a  translator  for  the 

visit  ofKarloy  Sepsy,  organist  of  the  Great  Church,  who  came  to  Charlotte 

for  the  MPPC  Arts  Festival  in  early  2001. 


226  Meats  and  Poult n' 


Citrus  Marinated  Pork  Chops 

Serves  Four 

Juice  of  2  limes  lA  teaspoon  salt 

Juice  of  2  oranges  Vi  teaspoon  cracked  black  pepper 

V/i  tablespoons  balsamic  vinegar  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  Dijon  mustard  1  teaspoon  olive  oil 

2  cloves  garlic,  peeled  (optional)  4  (1-in  thick)  center-cut  pork  chops 
2  to  3  sprigs  fresh  thyme  or  1  tablespoon  unsalted  butter 

Vi  teaspoon  dried  thyme 

In  a  large  non-reactive  bowl,  combine  all  ingredients  except  the  teaspoon  of 
olive  oil,  pork  chops  and  butter.  Add  pork  chops  and  spoon  marinade  over 
chops.  Marinate  at  least  30  minutes.  Heat  heavy  skillet  over  medium  heat 
for  2  minutes.  Remove  chops  from  marinade,  reserving  marinade.  Brush 
pan  with  the  teaspoon  of  olive  oil.  Cook  chops  for  5  minutes  on  each  side. 
Add  marinade,  reduce  heat,  cover  and  cook  for  7  minutes.  Turn  chops 
once.  Remove  chops  from  pan  and  set  aside.  Turn  up  heat  to  medium-high 
and  reduce  liquid  until  thick.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  butter.  Pour 
sauce  over  chops  and  serve  immediately. 

A  great  new  taste  for  chops.  A  family  favorite! 

Susanne  McGuire 


Meats  and  Poultry  227 


The  Communicants  Class  that 
I  was  in  was  conducted  by  our 
senior  pastor,  Dr.  James 
Fogartie,  who  held  some  of  the 
classes  at  his  house.  He  and  his 
wife,  Ruth  Ann,  had  a  wonderful 
way  of  bringing  humor  and 
songs  to  everything.  Dr. 
Fogartie  had  a  gift  for  teaching 
that  class  (among  other  gifts) 
and  I  still  remember  phrases  he 
used  and  comments  made  in 
1960. 

Erwin  Heeseman  Williams 


Erma's  Pork  Chops 


Serves  Four 


1  cup  rice 

1  envelope  onion  soup  mix 
V4  cup  catsup 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 


2  tablespoons  chopped  bell  pepper 
2  cups  boiling  water 
4  pork  chops 


Mix  ingredients  and  put  in  casserole  dish.  Top  with  pork  chops.  Bake 
covered  at  350  degrees  for  one  hour. 


No  need  to  brown  chops. 


Stuffed  Pork  Chops 


Anne  McCoy 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


6  to  8  thick  pork  chops  with  cut 

pockets 
2  cups  bread  stuffing  crumbs 
W  teaspoon  salt 
'A  teaspoon  pepper 
XA  cup  chopped  onion 
'/:  cup  chopped  celery 


1  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1  cup  chopped  apple 
1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  cup  stock  or  water 


Mix  stuffing  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Saute"  onion  and  celery  in  butter. 
Add  to  crumb  mixture  with  beaten  eggs,  chopped  apple  and  garlic.  Stuff 
pockets  in  pork  chops,  seal  with  toothpicks,  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  a 
heavy  skillet.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  Pour  one  cup  of  stock  or  water 
into  pan.  Cover  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  Vi  hours  or  until  tender.  Add 
more  liquid  if  necessary. 


Greed  for  Christinas  Eve  or  family  dinners. 


Bee  Hubbard 


228  Meats  and  Poultry 


When  I  was  ten  years  old  and 
sitting  in  church  with  my  three 
brothers  and  parents,  1  began  to 
play  with  the  communion  glass 
holder.  As  Dr.  Fogartie 
preached,  I  stuck  my  finger  in 
the  rubber  holder  attached  to 
the  pew  in  front  of  me.  All  of  a 
sudden,  I  tried  to  pull  my  finger 
out  and  it  would  not  budge.  I 
panicked.   The  harder  I  pulled, 
the  more  my  finger  began  to 
swell.  Everyone  sitting  around 
my  family  noticed  my 
precarious  predicament  and 
began  to  chuckle.  All  I  could  do 
was  wait  and  hope  my  finger 
would  quit  swelling.  Finally, 
when  the  sermon  was  over,  I 
was  able  to  get  my  finger  out. 

Steve  Stroup 


Hearty  Stuffed  pork  Chops 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


1  small  onion,  peeled  and  chopped 

3  tablespoons  vegetable  oil,  divided 

1  cup  cooked  white  rice 

'/i  cup  chicken  broth,  divided 

%  cup  shredded  Mozzarella  cheese 


'/■  cup  Ricotta  cheese 

2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 
1  teaspoon  dried  thyme 
4  to  6  boneless  center  cut  pork  chops 


In  a  large  non-stick  skillet,  heat  1  tablespoon  oil  over  medium  heat.  Add 
onion  and  cook,  stirring,  for  about  5  minutes  until  softened.  Remove  skillet 
from  heat  and  stir  in  cooked  rice,  Va  cup  broth,  cheeses,  and  thyme.  Mix 
well.  Using  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  deep  horizontal  pocket  into  each  chop. 
Spoon  rice  mixture  into  pockets,  dividing  evenly.  Secure  openings  with 
toothpicks.  Clean  skillet.  Heat  remaining  oil  in  skillet  over  medium  heat 
until  hot  but  not  smoking.  Add  chops  and  cook  for  about  5  minutes  until 
browned,  turning  once.  Pour  remaining  broth  into  skillet.  Cover  and  cook 
over  medium  heat  for  12  to  15  minutes  until  chops  are  cooked  through.  To 
serve,  remove  toothpicks  and  enjoy  with  sautded  vegetables  of  your  choice. 

Look  for  chops  that  are  about  I  'A  to  2  inches  thick.  They  will  he  easier  to 
cut  the  pockets  in  for  stuffing. 


Christine  Bauer,  staff 


*$*     *!*     *$*     *$*    *£* 


Meats  and  Poultry  229 


Sue's 
Spareribs 

Spareribs,  1  pound  per 

person 
Water 

Apple  cider  vinegar 
Ketchup 
Light  brown  sugar 

Boil  spareribs  in  pot  of  water 
for  45  minutes  to  1  hour. 
Marinate  ribs  in  one  part 
water,  one  part  vinegar  and 
one  part  ketchup  for  4  to  6 
hours.  Make  a  paste  of 
brown  sugar  and  vinegar. 
Spoon  paste  on  ribs  while 
cooking  on  grill  over  medium 
heat.  Cook  for  15  to  20 
minutes. 

Blair  Rohrer 


Barbecued  Pork  Roast 

Serves  Eight  Generously 


4  to  5-pound  pork  roast  or 

fresh  pork  ham 
1/4  cups  water 
1  cup  cider  vinegar 
Vi  cup  ketchup 
'A  cup  Worchestershire  sauce 


1  large  onion,  chopped 
3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
3  tablespoons  dry  mustard 
%  teaspoon  black  pepper 
%  teaspoon  red  pepper 
1  tablespoon  salt 


Wash  pork  roast  and  place  in  Dutch  oven,  fat  side  up.  Mix  remaining 
ingredients  and  pour  over  meat.  Cover  and  bake  at  325  degrees  for  3  to  5 
hours  until  very  tender.  Remove  roast  from  sauce.  Remove  fat  from  roast 
and  pull  meat  apart  while  warm.  Cool  sauce  in  refrigerator;  skim  off  fat. 
Combine  sauce  and  meat  and  reheat  before  serving. 


May  be  served  on  buns. 


►£•     ►£•      •i'     *fc 


Baby  Back  Ribs 


Becky  Mauney 
Margaret  Stukes 


1  or  2  racks  baby  back  ribs 

1  jar  Maui  Sweet  and  Sour  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice 


2  tablespoons  soy  sauce 
1  (18-oz)  jar  Kraft  Original 
Barbecue  Sauce 


Spray  rectangular  foil  pan  with  cooking  spray.  Put  whole  rack  of  ribs  in 
pan  meat  side  up.  Layer  sauce  ingredients  over  ribs  in  order  listed.  Bake 
uncovered  at  250  degrees  for  3  to  4  hours,  basting  several  times  with  sauce. 

This  makes  enough  sauce  to  cook  two  racks  of  ribs  together. 

Louise  Hull 


230  Meats  and  Poultry 


Mustard 
Sauce 

1  s  teaspoon  salt 
'A  cup  sugar 

Vi  tablespoon  Coleman's 
dry  mustard 

2  whole  eggs,  beaten 
V2  cup  white  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  butter 

Be  very  careful  to  combine 
the  ingredients  in  the  order 
given.  Cook  until  thick.  Add 
1  teaspoon  butter.  Double 
the  recipe  if  you  need  a  larger 
amount.  Serve  with  ham  or 
ham  loaf. 

This  is  a  prized  recipe  from 

the  Colonnade  Cafeteria  in 

Pittsburgh,  PA.   The  cafeteria 

no  longer  exists,  but  the 

recipe  lives  on. 

Margaret  Emery 


Ham  Loaf  with  Apricot  Topping 


Serves  Ten 


2  eggs,  beaten 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

2A  cup  milk 

%  cup  chopped  onion 

4  tablespoons  Dijon  mustard 


7  cups  (2  pounds)  cooked  ground 

ham 
Vi  cup  apricot  preserves 
1  (9V4-oz)  package  corn  muffin  mix 


Combine  eggs,  crumbs,  milk,  onion,  and  mustard.  Add  ham  and  mix.  Put 
in  large  casserole.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Remove  from  oven 
and  drain  off  any  fat.  Increase  oven  temperature  to  450  degrees.  Spread 
preserves  on  top  and  sprinkle  corn  muffin  mix  over  preserves.  Bake  20  to 
25  minutes  until  corn  layer  is  golden  brown. 

Willie  Carr 

Melange  Au  Jambon  (Ham  Loaf) 

Serves  Eight 


1%  pounds  ground  pork 

IVi  pounds  ground  ham 

2  eggs 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

3A  cup  milk 

Whole  cloves 


Topping: 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  tablespoon  dry  mustard 

Vi  cup  vinegar 

Vz  cup  water 


Mix  first  five  ingredients  together  and  pack  into  a  large  loaf  pan.  Dot  with 
whole  cloves.  Combine  brown  sugar,  mustard,  vinegar,  and  water  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Pour  over  loaf  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  V%  hours. 

This  is  excellent.    You  can  also  make  it  into  ham  balls. 

Suzanne  Naas 


Meats  and  Poultry  23 1 


When  I  was  in  the  7th  grade, 
almost  everyone  in  Youth  Group 
also  attended  A  G  Junior  High. 
The  old  church  manse  was  the 
huh  of  youth  activities,  and  our 
Youth  Group  Advisors  Randy 
and  Margaret  Bigger  stuck  with 
us  for  three  wonderful  years.  In 
Senior  High,  Harry  and  Babbie 
Boyd  became  the  leaders.   We 
affectionately  called  her  "Mama 
B. "  They  were  always  ready  to 
chaperone  weekend  youth  trips 
to  Mondamin  Camp  and  "In 
The  Oaks. "  During  the 
summer,  over  30  youth  from  our 
church  would  go  to  Montreal 
for  the  World  Mission 
Conference.  All  of  us  stayed  in 
one  large  house  with  Harry  and 
"Mama  B.  "  We  hiked  on  trails 
and  played  cards  and  group 
games.  One  that  stands  out  in 
my  mind  involves  everyone 's 
sitting  in  a  circle  and  trying  to 
wink  at  someone  without  the 
others  noticing.   Youth  Group 
was  an  important  part  of  my 
junior  and  senior  high  school 
days,  and  friends  and  advisors 
helped  to  create  such  fond 
memories. 

Steve  Stroup 


Ham  Potato  Casserole 


Serves  Two  to  Three 


Cooked  ham  (equivalent  of  2  large 

slices),  cut  Into  small  pieces 
2  large  baking  potatoes,  peeled 
1  large  onion,  sliced 
1  green  pepper,  sliced 


Butter 

'A  cup  water 

Grated  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

Chicken  stock  (optional) 


Grease  small  casserole  dish  with  butter.  Gently  boil  potatoes  in  small 
amount  of  water  for  20  minutes.  Slice  and  layer  potatoes,  ham,  onion  slices 
and  pepper  slices  in  casserole.  Place  small  pats  of  butter  between  layers  if 
desired.  Add  water  to  casserole.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top.  Cover  with 
foil.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Uncover  and  bake  10  minutes 
longer.  Add  more  liquid  if  it  gets  too  dry.  Use  chicken  stock  instead  of 
water  if  you  have  it  on  hand. 

This  is  a  great  way  to  use  leftover  ham  and  makes  an  easy  dinner  for 

Sunday  night.  Kids  love  it  but  some  may  want  to 

remove  the  "green  things". 

Betty  Dale  Archer 

Mary  Power  Lambeth's  Lamb 


Salt  and  pepper 

Leg  of  lamb 

1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  dry  mustard 

3  tablespoons  cider  vinegar 


I  tablespoon  ketchup 
Onion  and  garlic  salt  to  taste 
l'/i  teaspoons  Worcestershire 
1  teaspoon  horseradish 
Vi  cup  water 


Salt  and  pepper  lamb.  Broil  to  brown  quickly  in  oven.  Mix  other 
ingredients  together.  Reduce  oven  to  350  degrees  and  baste  with  mixture 
often.  Cook  until  desired  doneness.  Reserve  drippings  when  done. 
Deglaze  pan  to  make  excellent  gravy! 

Sunnv  Lambeth  Allen 


232  Meats  and  Poultry 


Every  summer  when  World 
Mission  lime  came  in  Montreal, 
the  Senior  Highs  ofMPPC 
would  go  for  a  week.   We  stayed 
at  first  in  one  cottage  (actually 
one  home  with  one  young 
person  plus  me!)  and  then  a 
larger  house,  etc.  One  year  we 
had  two  adjoining  houses  on 
Texas  Road  opposite  the  tennis 
courts,  with  the  boys  in  one 
house  and  the  girls  next  door. 
All  meals  were  in  the  girls ' 
house  because  it  was  larger. 
Parents  very  kindly  sent  us  off 
with  vegetables  from  their 
gardens,  cakes,  cookies,  etc. 
There  was  a  screened-in 
backporch,  but  over  the  years  a 
few  broken  pieces  of  screening 
appeared.  One  day  when  we  all 
came  roaring  down  from  classes 
at  lunchtime.  we  discovered  two 
large,  tall  dogs  reaching  into 
the  porch  screen  "holes  "  and 
devouring  two  large  pecan  pies. 
The  boys  chased  the  dogs  away 
(the  pies  were  gone)  and  later 
we  found  out  that  those  dogs 
belonged  to  Billy  Graham. 
They  roamed  all  over  Montreal 
most  of  the  time,  and  we  weren  'I 
the  first  group  that  had  lost 
some  food.  A  lot  of  record 
playing,  porch  swinging,  rock 
hopping,  tennis  games,  Lake 
Susan  escapades  and  mountain 
climbing  gave  me  happy 
memories  with  some  great  folks! 

Babbie  Boyd 


OSSO  BUCO 


Serves  Six 


6  sections  veal  shanks 
(12-14  pounds) 

1  cup  all  purpose  flour 
'/:  cup  olive  oil 

4  ounces  sweet  butter 

2  onions,  chopped 
Garlic  cloves 


'/}  teaspoon  basil 
'A  teaspoon  oregano 

1  (28-oz)  can  tomatoes,  drained 

2  cups  white  wine 
2  cups  beef  broth 
Vi  cup  parsley 

2  lemons 


Shake  veal  in  flour  and  brown  in  oil.  Transfer  to  plate  and  drain  on  paper 
towel.  Add  butter  and  saute'  onions  and  garlic.  Add  seasonings,  tomatoes, 
wine  and  broth.  Cook  10  minutes,  skimming  fat.  Place  veal  in  Dutch  oven 
and  cover  with  broth  mixture.  Cover  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  Vi  hours. 
Add  parsley  and  juice  of  two  lemons. 

Pttnkin  Brookshire 

Brunswick  Stew 


3  pounds  lean  pork 
5  pounds  chicken 
1  quart  tiny  lima  beans 
1  quart  cream  style  corn 
1  quart  tomatoes 
Onions 


2  cans  cream  of  tomato  soup 

lA  bottle  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  stick  butter 

4  potatoes 

Salt,  pepper,  and  red  pepper 


Cook  meats  until  tender.  Debone  and  put  in  large  soup  pot.  Add  beans, 
corn,  tomatoes,  chopped  onion  to  taste,  tomato  soup,  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  butter.  Simmer  several  hours,  stirring  frequently.  Cook  and  mash 
potatoes  and  add  to  stew  to  thicken  it.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  red 
pepper  to  taste.  This  recipe  makes  a  lot  and  freezes  nicely. 

This  recipe  originally  belonged  to  Mary  Lou  Can,  Babbie  Boyd 's  mother. 

Mary  Boyd 


Meats  and  Poultry  233 


Brunswick  Stew  a  la  Crock  Pot 


Semes  Twenty 


2  cans  Castleberry  BBQ  Pork  * 
1  can  Castleberry  BBQ  Beef 
1  can  Swanson  Chunk  Chicken 
1  (15-oz)  can  stewed  tomatoes 
1  (15-oz)  can  chopped  tomatoes 


1  can  creamed  corn 
1  can  whole  kernel  corn 
1  can  lima  beans 
1  large  onion,  chopped 
Salt  and  pepper 


Open  cans  and  pour  ingredients  into  a  "iVi  to  4-quart  crock  pot  without 
draining.  Add  chopped  onion.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  on  high 
setting  30  minutes  to  an  hour  or  on  low  setting  all  day. 

*Castleberry  and  Swanson  meats  only  come  in  one  size.  The  only  difficult 
part  of  this  recipe  is  finding  the  specific  ingredients.  I  usually  buy  enough 
for  another  time. 

Great  for  a  crowd  in  the  mountains  or  at  the  beach.  Put  it  on  in  the 

morning,  play  all  day,  and  serve  it  with  a  green  salad  and  crackers  or 

French  bread.  Easy  and  delicious! 

Miriam  Jackson 


234  Meats  and  Poultry 


Brunswick  Stew 


Serves  Twelve  or  More 


1  large  hen  or  2  fryers 
Good  sized  pork  roast 
Cubed  beef  (optional) 

1  large  can  tomatoes 

2  cans  corn  kernels 

1  (16-oz)  package  frozen  cut  okra 

2  cans  creamed  corn 
2  to  3  potatoes,  diced 

2  to  3  onions,  chopped 
Vt  cup  catsup 

3  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 


1  to  3  tablespoons  Tabasco  sauce 
3  tablespoons  parsley 

2  to  3  tablespoons  celery  seed 
1  teaspoon  chili  powder 

1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 
or  dry  mustard 

1  teaspoon  thyme 

2  to  3  bay  leaves 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
2  cans  butter  beans 


Cook  meats  until  tender,  saving  the  stock.  Shred  meats.  Mix  all  vegetables 
except  butter  beans,  and  some  of  the  stock  and  seasonings  in  a  large  pot. 
Simmer  for  6  to  8  hours.  Add  butter  beans  during  the  last  hour.  Stir 
frequently.  If  more  liquid  is  needed,  add  more  stock. 

Judy  Ranson 

Dinner  in  a  Hurry,  Curry 

Sen>es  Four  to  Six 


2  onions,  chopped 
2  cloves  garlic,  chopped 
1  tablespoon  oil 
1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tomato,  chopped 

2  teaspoons  curry  powder 
2  cups  bouillon 


Vi  can  tomato  paste 

Lemon  juice  to  taste 

Leftover  meat  (chicken,  beef,  or 

pork),  chopped 
Golden  raisins  (optional) 
Mushrooms  (optional) 


Saute  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  soft.  Add  flour,  tomato  and  curry  and 
saute  all  together.  Add  bouillon,  tomato  paste  and  lemon  juice,  and  mix. 
Stir  in  chopped  leftover  meat.  Stir  in  raisins  and  mushrooms  if  desired. 
Heat  through.  Serve  over  rice. 

Jetta  Gill 


Meats  and  Poultry  235 


Eleanor  Belk  walking  into 
church  exactly  30  seconds 
before  the  1 1:00  service 
(through  the  front  left  door), 
wearing  a  beautiful,  fresh 
corsage  on  her  shoulder. 

Eleanor  Belk  standing  near  the 
side  exit  after  church,  with  a 
warm  smile,  speaking  to  all  and 
calling  each  and  every  person 
by  name, 

David  Barnhardt 


Barbecued  Chicken 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


Vt  cup  vinegar 

Vi  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  prepared  mustard 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt 


Vt  teaspoon  red  pepper 
Thick  lemon  slice 

1  medium  onion,  sliced 
Vi  cup  ketchup 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
Whole  chicken,  cut  up 


Simmer  first  nine  ingredients  in  a  saucepan  for  10  minutes.  Remove  lemon 
slice,  and  add  ketchup  and  Worcestershire.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Remove  from 
heat.  Pour  over  chicken  pieces  arranged  in  a  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  l'/i  to  2  hours. 

Debbie  Darden 

4"     >i>     ►£     4<     4" 

Basil  Grilled  Chicken 

Serves  Four 


-%  teaspoon  coarsely  ground  pepper 
4  chicken  breast  halves,  skinned 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
V*  cup  chopped  fresh  basil 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine,  softened 
2  tablespoons  minced  fresh  basil 


1  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
V*  teaspoon  garlic  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 
'/h  teaspoon  pepper 
Fresh  sprigs  of  basil 


Press  ground  pepper  into  meaty  sides  of  chicken  breast  halves.  Combine 
melted  butter  and  chopped  basil  and  stir  well.  Brush  chicken  lightly  with 
melted  butter  mixture.  Combine  softened  butter,  minced  basil.  Parmesan 
cheese,  garlic  powder,  salt  and  pepper  in  a  small  bowl.  Beat  at  low  speed 
with  an  electric  mixer  until  mixture  is  well  blended  and  smooth.  Transfer  to 
a  small  serving  bowl  and  set  aside.  Grill  chicken  over  medium  coals  for  8 
to  10  minutes  on  each  side,  basting  frequently  with  remaining  melted  butter 
mixture.  Serve  grilled  chicken  with  basil-butler  mixture  (a  small  scoop  on 
each  piece).  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  basil. 

Susan  Rankin 


236  Meals  and  Poultry 


Bar-B-Q  Sauce 

■Vi  cup  chopped  onion 

'A  cup  salad  oil 

'A  cup  ketchup 

•Vi  cup  water 

'/i  nip  lemon  juice 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire 

sauce 
2  tablespoons  prepared 

mustard 
2  teaspoons  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

In  saucepan,  saute"  onions  in 
oil  until  translucent.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  and 
simmer  20  to  30  minutes. 
Marinate  chicken,  beef  or 
pork  in  sauce.  Baste  with 
sauce  while  grilling. 

Dee-Dee  McKay 


A.J.'s  Secret  Southern  Barbecue 
Chicken  Sauce  For  the  Grill 


'/:  cup  butter 

V*  cup  lemon  juice 

Vi  cup  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vt  cup  liquid  smoke 

1  cup  water 


1  tablespoons  Texas  Pete, 

or  to  taste 
'/•  cup  self  rising  flour  or  enough 

to  thicken  to  a  liquid  paste 


In  a  small  pot,  combine  ingredients.  Heat  and  stir  until  butter  is  melted  and 
sauce  is  hot.  Paste  onto  chicken  at  beginning  of  cooking  time  and  again 
every  time  chicken  is  turned. 

This  sauce  is  wonderful.  J  usually  use  two  whole  chickens  cut  in  half. 

Susan  "  Woozie  "  Dell 

Chicken  Breasts  Deluxe 


4  or  5  chicken  breasts,  split, 

skinned  and  boned 
I  (lQVi-oz)  can  condensed  cream 

of  chicken  soup 
1  (10Vi-oz)  can  condensed  cream 

of  celery  soup 


Vi  cup  sherry 

•Vi  cup  shredded  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese 
1  (4-oz)  can  mushroom  pieces, 

drained 
3  green  onion  tops,  finely  chopped 


Arrange  chicken  breasts  in  2-quart  buttered  baking  dish.  In  separate  bowl, 
combine  soups,  sherry,  cheese,  mushrooms  and  green  onion  tops.  Stir 
thoroughly.  Pour  soup  mixture  over  chicken.  Bake,  covered,  at  325 
degrees  for  1  hour.  Uncover  and  continue  baking  1  more  hour. 

This  is  an  easy,  delicious  recipe  for  family  or  dinner  parties  and  goes 
well  with  wild  rice  and  a  salad. 

Carev  Ellen  Heherton 


Meats  and  Poultry  237 


Chicken  Paprikas  ("Pop-ree-kosh") 


3  to  4  tablespoons  oil 

1  tablespoon  hot  Hungarian 

paprika 
3  yellow  onions,  peeled  and 

chopped 
8  serving  pieces  of  chicken 
1  cup  chicken  stock 
1  medium  tomato 


2  red  and/or  green  peppers, 
seeded  and  chopped 

1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cloves  garlic,  peeled  and 
crushed 

Vi  cup  sour  cream 

2  tablespoons  all  purpose  flour 


Heat  heavy  6-quart  pot.  Add  oil  and  paprika.  Saute  paprika  for  1  minute. 
Add  onions  and  saute  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  remaining  ingredients  except 
sour  cream  and  flour.  Bring  to  a  simmer  and  cook  covered  45  minutes  to  1 
hour,  until  all  is  tender.  Remove  chicken.  Mix  sour  cream  and  flour  with  a 
wire  whisk.  Add  1  cup  of  gravy  from  the  pot  and  stir  well  to  avoid  lumps. 
Add  this  back  to  the  pot  and  heat  and  stir  while  it  thickens.  Return  chicken 
to  pot.  Restore  heat.  Serve  over  Hungarian  Dumplings. 

This  is  also  good  with  veal.  My  Irish  mother  made  this  every  year 
for  me  on  my  birthday.  It  has  always  been  my  favorite! 


Tom  Zielinski 


Cranberry  Chicken 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  can  whole  berry  cranberry  sauce 
1  envelope  Lipton  onion  soup  mix 
1  small  bottle  French  salad  dressing 


6  to  8  boneless  chicken  breasts 
Cooked  rice  (6  to  8  servings) 


Mix  cranberry  sauce,  soup  mix  and  French  dressing  in  medium  bowl.  Place 
chicken  breasts  in  a  large  casserole  dish.  Pour  cranberry  mixture  over 
chicken.  Cover  with  lid  or  foil.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  Serve  over 
rice. 

Easy,  delicious,  and  festive  for  holidays. 

Gina  Folk 


238  Meats  and  Poultry 


Some  years  ago,  after  our 
ministers  baptized  children,  they 
walked  them  down  the  aisle  to 
show  them  off  to  their  new 
church  family— all  the  while 
talking  to  the  child  and  the 
congregation  about  the 
significance  of  baptism. 
Associate  Pastor  Pete  Peety 
baptized  our  son  Adams  in  a 
wonderful  service  that  went 
without  a  hitch  until  Pete,  who 
had  a  full,  bushy  beard,  was  on 
his  way  back  to  the  chancel  with 
Adams  in  his  arms,  talking  to 
him  for  all  the  congregation  to 
hear.   Then  the  lavalier 
microphone  he  was  wearing 
cracked  loudly,  scaring  Adams, 
whose  response  was  not  to 
scream,  but  rather  to  grab  hold 
of  Pete 's  beard  with  both  hands 
and  hang  on  for  dear  life.   To 
Pete 's  credit,  he  never  missed  a 
beat  with  his  soliloquy  even 
though  he  was  wincing  in  pain 
all  the  way  back  down  the  aisle. 

Don  Gately 


Chicken  Picatta 


Serves  Four 


4  chicken  breast  halves 

Salt  and  freshly  ground  pepper 

Flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  and  olive  oil 

Vi  pound  sliced  mushrooms 

1  tablespoon  butter  and  olive  oil 

Vi  cup  chicken  broth 


1  cup  dry  white  wine 

%  to  lA  cup  fresh  lemon  juice  to  taste 

Artichokes  to  taste 

Capers  to  taste 

Thinly  sliced  lemon 

Chopped  fresh  parsley 

Parmigiano  Reggiano  cheese,  grated 


Pound  breasts  between  plastic  wrap.  Breasts  can  be  cut  into  smaller  pieces. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Saute  chicken  in  butter  and  oil  in  a 
single  layer  for  1  minute  on  each  side.  Remove.  In  same  pan,  saute 
mushrooms  in  butter  and  oil.  Remove  with  slotted  spoon.  Deglaze  pan 
with  broth,  wine  and  lemon  juice.  Simmer  1  to  2  minutes.  Return  chicken 
and  mushrooms  to  skillet  and  simmer  for  3  minutes;  turn  and  simmer  2 
minutes  more.  Add  artichokes,  capers  and  lemon  slices  during  last  2 
minutes  of  simmering.  Serve  chicken  topped  with  lemon  slice,  parsley  and 
a  sprinkle  of  cheese. 

Nice  served  over  rice  pilaf  laced  with  slivered  almonds  or  pine  nuts.  This 

can  be  put  together  just  before  guests  arrive  to  the  point  of  simmering  the 

chicken.  At  serving  time,  simmer  until  very  hot.  Delicious  left  over. 


Ellen  Witherspoon 


Meats  and  Poultiy  239 


Chicken  Waikiki 


Serves  Four 


2  whole  chicken  legs 

2  whole  chicken  breasts 

'A  cup  flour 

'A  cup  salad  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt 

V*  teaspoon  pepper 

1  large  green  pepper,  sliced 

1  (20-oz)  can  sliced  pineapple 


Sauce: 
Pineapple  juice  from  can 
Water 

1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 
V*  cup  cider  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  soy  sauce 

'/<  teaspoon  ginger 

1  chicken  bouillon  cube 


Wash  chicken,  pat  dry  and  coat  with  flour.  Heat  oil  in  large  skillet.  Add 
chicken,  a  few  pieces  at  a  time,  and  brown.  Remove  as  browned  to  shallow 
baking  dish,  skin  side  up.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  pineapple, 
pouring  juice  into  2-cup  measuring  cup  and  adding  water  to  make  1  lA  cups. 
In  saucepan,  combine  pineapple  juice,  sugar,  cornstarch,  vinegar,  soy  sauce, 
ginger  and  bouillon  cube.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  2 
minutes  and  pour  over  chicken.  Bake  uncovered  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes.  Add  pineapple  and  green  pepper  slices.  Bake  30  minutes  longer 
or  until  chicken  is  tender,  basting  occasionally. 

Serve  hot  with  fluffy  white  rice.  Sounds  complicated,  but  it 's  not. 

Doris  Petersen 


240  Meats  and  Poultry 


Easy  Chicken  Parmigiana 

Serves  Four 

1  pound  chicken  tenderloins  Italian  seasoned  breadcrumbs 

2  eggs  1  jar  spaghetti  sauce 

Olive  oil  1  cup  shredded  Mozzarella  cheese 

1  clove  garlic,  minced,  or  more  Grated  Parmesan  cheese  to  taste 

to  taste  Pasta  of  choice 

Beat  eggs  in  a  bowl.  Place  breadcrumbs  in  a  bowl  next  to  eggs.  Begin 
heating  olive  oil  with  minced  garlic.  Dip  chicken  pieces  in  egg;  dredge  in 
breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  olive  oil  until  golden  on  both  sides.  Try  to  get 
some  garlic  on  each  piece  of  chicken.  Place  chicken  one  or  two  layers  deep 
in  a  greased  baking  dish.  Pour  spaghetti  sauce  over  chicken.  Bake, 
covered,  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes  or  until  chicken  is  cooked  through. 
Remove  from  oven  and  sprinkle  with  cheeses.  Return  to  oven  and  bake 
another  5  to  10  minutes  until  cheeses  are  melted.  Serve  over  pasta. 

When  our  younger  son  was  sick  in  the  hospital  in  1995,  a  thoughtful  friend 

brought  this  dish  with  a  salad,  a  loaf  of  fresh  bread,  angel  hair  pasta, 

a  bottle  of  red  wine,  and  a  treat  for  our  older  son.  I  have  since 

imitated  both  the  recipe  and  the  presentation. 

Katherine  Forney 


Meats  and  Poultry  241 


Grilled  Picnic 
Chicken 

Serves  Four 

'A  cup  melted  butter 

'A  cup  cider  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  crushed  tarragon 

1  teaspoon  salt 

'/>  teaspoon  pepper 

1  quartered  broiler-fryer 

Mix  butter,  vinegar,  tarragon, 
salt  and  pepper.  Set  aside. 
Place  chicken  skin  side  up  on 
greased  grill.  Baste  chicken 
with  butter  mixture.  Cook 
over  medium  coals  1  hour  or 
until  tender,  turning  with 
tongs  and  basting  chicken 
every  5  to  8  minutes. 

Sophie  Marshal! 


Father's  Chicken  Delight 

Serves  Six 


8  breast  and/or  leg  pieces  of 

chicken 
1  can  mushroom  soup 


1  cup  sour  cream 

Several  containers  of  chipped  beef 

Vi  pound  bacon 


Put  chipped  beef  on  bottom  of  Pyrex  casserole  dish.  Then  add  chicken, 
mushroom  soup  and  sour  cream.  Place  bacon  strips  across  the  top.  Cook 
slowly  in  the  oven  at  225  degrees  for  about  VA  hours.  The  time  does  not 
need  to  be  exact;  the  chicken  can  continue  to  cook  slowly  for  additional 
time  if  needed.  Chicken  is  done  when  it  falls  off  the  bone. 

This  was  my  father 's  favorite  Sunday  lunch.  My  mother,  Elizabeth  C.  Pitts, 

put  it  in  the  oven  when  she  left  for  church  and  pulled  it  out 

when  she  came  home.    We  had  this  on  a  regular  basis. 


Rodney  Pitts 


Marinated  Chicken 

6  boneless,  skinless  chicken  breast        3  tablespoons  grainy  brown 

halves 
3  medium  cloves  garlic,  crushed 
1 '/:  teaspoons  salt 
Vz  cup  light  brown  sugar 
%  cup  apple  cider  vinegar 


mustard 
Juice  of  1  lime 
Juice  of  Vi  lemon 
6  tablespoons  olive  oil 
Freshly  ground  black  pepper 


Combine  marinade  ingredients  and  pour  over  chicken.  Cover  and 
refrigerate  overnight,  turning  once.  Cook  on  grill. 

Delicious  served  over  Caesar  Salad  for  a  light  summer  meal. 


Stacey  Chapman 


242  Meats  and  Poultry 


Mushroom  and  Chicken  Kabobs 

Serves  Six 

6  chicken  breasts,  boned  and  %  teaspoon  salt 

skinned  V*  cup  salad  oil 

1  (8-oz)  can  pineapple  chunks  1  pound  fresh  mushrooms 

%  teaspoon  garlic  powder  Green  peppers 
Vi  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

Cut  chicken  in  1  '/2-inch  chunks  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  a  tightly  fitting  lid. 
Drain  pineapple  and  reserve  juice.  To  juice  add  garlic  powder,  ginger,  salt 
and  oil.  Mix  and  pour  over  chicken.  Cover  and  refrigerate  at  least  2  hours, 
stirring  occasionally.  Rinse  and  dry  mushrooms.  Cut  in  halves.  Parboil 
green  peppers  for  2  minutes  and  cut  into  cubes.  Drain  chicken,  reserving 
marinade.  Skewer  piece  of  mushroom,  green  pepper,  and  chicken;  repeat. 
Place  pineapple  chunk  on  end  of  skewer.  Brush  skewer  with  marinade. 
Grill  about  6  inches  from  heat,  turning  often  until  chicken  is  tender.  Serve 
over  rice. 

Melissa  St  roup 

Parmesan  Chicken 

Serves  Four 

4  boneless  chicken  breasts  Vt  cup  plain  bread  crumbs 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted  1  tablespoon  basil 

54  cup  Parmesan  cheese 

Dip  chicken  breasts  in  melted  butter.  Roll  in  mixture  of  cheese, 
breadcrumbs  and  basil.  Place  in  glass  baking  dish.  Bake,  uncovered,  at  350 
degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Shirley  White 


Meats  and  Poulti-v  243 


Quick  and 

Easy  Chicken 

Fajita 

Marinade 


1  cup  Zesty  Italian  salad 

dressing 
1  cup  salsa 
'A  cup  soy  sauce 
Juice  of  one  lime  (optional) 

Mix  together  and  marinate 
whole  chicken  breasts  for  at 
least  4  hours;  longer  is  better. 
Grill  and  slice  in  thin  strips. 
Serve  with  tortillas,  grated 
Mexican  cheese,  sauteed  red 
onions,  green,  red  and  yellow 
peppers,  refried  beans,  sour 
cream,  salsa  and  jalapenos. 

Daphne  Little 


Parmesan  Crusted 
Chicken  Breasts  with  Sherry 


Serves  Four 


4  to  6  boneless,  skinless  chicken 
breast  halves 

1  cup  Parmesan  cheese 
Vegetable  oil  to  fry  chicken 

2  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 
'/2  cup  flour 


1  bottle  cooking  sherry 
32  ounces  reduced  sodium 

chicken  broth 
1  pinch  garlic  powder 
Parmesan  cheese  for  topping 
Angel  hair  pasta 


Clean  and  trim  chicken  for  cooking.  Roll  chicken  in  Parmesan  cheese  until 
coated.  Cover  bottom  of  frying  pan  with  %-inch  vegetable  oil.  Heat  until 
almost  smoking,  preferably  in  non-stick  pan.  Fry  chicken  breasts 
approximately  15  minutes  until  golden,  turning  until  evenly  cooked.  When 
golden,  remove  chicken  and  drain  on  paper  towels  to  remove  excess  oil. 
Place  in  ovenproof  glass  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish. 

In  large  saucepan,  heat  2  tablespoons  vegetable  oil.  Add  2  tablespoons 
flour,  stirring  flour  and  oil  mixture.  Add  cooking  sherry.  Use  remaining 
flour  as  needed  to  thicken  sauce.  Add  chicken  broth  and  garlic  powder. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Sauce  should  have  substance,  but  not  be  as  thick  as  a  gravy. 
Pour  over  chicken  breasts.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Cook  angel 
hair  pasta.  Serve  chicken  and  sauce  over  pasta.  Top  with  Parmesan  cheese. 


Amy  Glenney 


244  Meats  and  Poultry 


To  clarify  butter,  melt 
butter  in  a  saucepan  until 
the  milk  solids  drop  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  The 
clear  liquid  that  remains 
on  top  is  called  clarified 
butter.  One  cup  butter 
yields  %  cup  clarified 
butter. 


The  Province's  Parisian  Poulet 


Serves  Two  or  More 


4  ounces  clarified  butter 
2  whole  chicken  breasts 
Flour  for  dredging 
1  egg,  well  beaten 
1  cup  sliced  mushrooms 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

4  ounces  ripened  Brie 

2  to  3  ounces  amontillado  sherry 

Cooked  rice  or  couscous 


In  a  large  skillet,  heat  clarified  butter  until  it  is  hot  but  not  smoking.  Dip 
chicken  in  flour,  then  in  egg.  Place  chicken  pieces  in  skillet  one  at  a  time, 
shaking  skillet  vigorously  to  prevent  sticking.  Brown  on  both  sides. 
Remove  chicken  and  set  aside.  Add  mushrooms  to  skillet,  lightly  salt  and 
pepper,  and  saute  about  one  minute.  Replace  chicken  in  skillet  and  top  each 
piece  with  a  slice  of  Brie.  Add  sherry  and  ignite.  Remove  pan  from  heat. 
Cover  pan  for  a  moment  to  melt  the  cheese.  Place  chicken  on  beds  of  rice 
or  couscous  and  pour  mushroom  mixture  over  chicken. 

People  who  know  that  I  co-authored  Maryland's  Historic  Restaurants 
(published  by  John  F.  Blair  in  1985  and  1995)  ask  which  is  my  favorite 
recipe  in  the  book,  and  I  continue  to  say  that  Parisian  Poulet  is  the  one  I 
have  most  often  made  at  home.  It  also  remains  a  popular  entree  at  The 

Province  in  Frederick,  Maryland,  a  1767  building  that  once  was  Mrs. 
Snyder's  Hat  Shop. 

Rebecca  Schenck 


Meats  and  Poultry  245 


Cranberry 
Apricot  Sauce 

Yields  4  cups 

12-ounces  fresh  cranberries 
8  ounces  dried  apricots, 

chopped 
VA  cups  sugar 
2  cups  orange  juice 
lA  cup  water 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a 
Dutch  oven;  cook  over 
medium  heat,  stirring 
constantly,  until  sugar 
dissolves.  Reduce  heat  and 
simmer  30  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Serve  warm  or 
cold. 

Cherie  Higgins 


Roasted  Chicken 


Sei-ves  Four  to  Six 


1  whole  chicken 
1  can  of  beer 
V*  cup  butter 


Various  spices  -  seasoned  salt, 
garlic  salt,  cayenne  pepper, 
favorite  herbs,  salt  and  pepper 


Prepare  the  chicken  by  removing  parts  from  cavity  and  rinsing  the  bird. 
Using  a  can  opener,  cut  the  top  off  the  beer  can  and  pour  out  about  half  the 
beer.  Place  the  butter  in  the  can  as  well  as  desired  herbs  and  spices.  Be 
generous  with  your  seasonings.  Rub  the  chicken  down  with  the  same 
seasonings.  Place  the  beer  can  inside  the  bird  so  the  chicken  is  "sitting"  on 
the  can.  Set  the  chicken  upright  on  a  roasting  pan.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for 
1  hour  1 5  minutes  to  1  hour  45  minutes  depending  on  the  size  of  chicken. 


Very  easy  and  leftovers  make  great  soup. 


Liza  Sippe 


Roast  Chicken  with  Lemon 

(POLLO  AL  LlMONE) 


Serves  Four 


1  (2Vz-pound)  chicken 
Salt 


Freshly  ground  pepper 
2  whole  lemons 


Wash  the  chicken,  dry  it  well  inside  and  out,  and  remove  fat.  Sprinkle  a 
liberal  amount  of  salt  and  pepper  inside  and  out.  Soften  lemons  by  rubbing 
them  between  your  palms;  then  puncture  the  lemons  at  least  20  times.  Place 
lemons  in  the  cavity.  Close  opening  with  string  and  toothpicks,  and  truss 
legs  to  body  to  keep  thighs  from  spreading.  Place  chicken  in  a  roasting  pan, 
with  breast  up,  in  the  upper  third  of  oven.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  15 
minutes.  Turn  the  chicken  over,  trying  not  to  break  the  skin.  Bake  20 
minutes.  Turn  oven  up  to  400  degrees  and  bake  15  more  minutes.  The 
juices  are  delicious. 


The 


chicken  usually  puffs  up.  Adjust  the  cooking  time  if  you  use 
a  larger  chicken. 

Rosalrn  Han 


246  Meats  and  Poultry 


My  fondest,  greatest  memory  at 
MPPC  is  the  unbelievable, 
positive  response  to  the  AIDS 
issue  at  MPPC  in  1991-1992. 
With  many  programs,  sermons 
and  RAIN  (Regional  AIDS 
Interfaith  Network)  teams 
actively  educating  and 
supporting  the  congregation 
and  those  with  AIDS,  the  church 
took  a  stand  and  was  an  early 
leader  in  the  community  when  it 
was  not  a  popular  subject  and 
certainly  not  one  that  churches 
were  ready  to  address.  MPPC 's 
AIDS  Task  Force  met  monthly 
with  direction  from  Rev.  Tim 
Croft  and  directed  a  ministry 
that  continues  today.   With 
housing  for  the  RAIN  ministry 
for  seven  years  in  the 
Cornerstone  and  seven  RAIN 
teams  in  the  early  stages, 
MPPC  certainly  pioneered  as  a 
church  in  awareness,  attracting 
publicity  and  national  leaders 
such  as  Mary  Fisher  to  the 
pulpit. 

Gail  Brinn  Wilkins 


Steve's  Famous  Easy  and  Low  Fat 
Chicken  Cacciatore 


Serves  Six  Plus 


2  jars  Classico  sauce  (tomato-basil 

preferred) 
1  package  boneless  and  skinless 

chicken  breasts,  cut  into  1/4- 

inch  cubes 
1  bottle  inexpensive  dry  white  wine 


1  small  yellow  onion,  diced  small 
1  green  and  1  red  pepper,  diced 

large 
1  package  sliced  mushrooms 
Angel  hair  pasta 


Heat  sauce  in  large  saucepan  on  low  heat.  In  fry  pan  sprayed  with  cooking 
spray,  brown  chicken  on  both  sides.  Add  some  white  wine,  cover,  and 
simmer  1 5  minutes.  Add  chicken  and  about  2  tablespoons  of  wine  from  pan 
to  the  sauce.  Add  a  little  more  wine  and  the  onion  to  the  fry  pan.  Simmer  5 
to  8  minutes  and  add  to  the  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  of  wine  from  the  pan. 
Add  a  little  more  wine  to  the  fry  pan  along  with  the  peppers.  Simmer  8  to 
10  minutes  and  add  to  the  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  of  wine  from  the  pan. 
Add  a  little  more  wine  to  the  pan  along  with  the  mushrooms.  Simmer  10 
minutes  and  add  to  the  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  of  wine  from  the  pan. 
Simmer  sauce  for  about  VA  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  over  your 
favorite  flavor  angel  hair  pasta. 


Delicious  with  salad  for  dinner. 


Gail  Brinn  Wilkins 


Meats  and  Poultry  247 


Tomato  Cream  Chicken 


Boneless  chicken  breasts 

(as  many  as  you  wish  that  will 
fit  into  a  large  frying  pan) 

White  pepper 

Ground  nutmeg 

Butter 

'A  cup  chopped  onion, 
or  more  to  taste 


Vi  pound  mushrooms,  sliced 
%  cup  Taylor's  Cream  Sherry 
1/4  tablespoons  Dijon  mustard 
1  tomato,  peeled  and  chopped 

(or  one  (14.5-oz)  can  diced 

tomatoes,  drained) 
54  cup  whipping  cream 


Sprinkle  both  sides  of  chicken  breasts  with  a  good  amount  of  white  pepper 
and  nutmeg.  In  a  large  frying  pan,  brown  chicken  in  melted  butter.  As  you 
turn  the  chicken  to  brown  on  the  other  side,  add  onions  and  mushrooms  to 
the  pan.  Once  chicken  is  browned  on  both  sides,  pour  sherry  over  chicken. 
Cover  and  simmer  on  VERY  low  heat  about  40  minutes.  Transfer  chicken 
to  a  serving  dish.  Stir  mustard,  tomato,  and  whipping  cream  into  liquid  in 
the  frying  pan.  Stir  well  until  heated.  Pour  sauce  over  chicken  and  serve. 
Can  be  made  a  day  ahead  and  reheated  to  serve. 

The  secret  is  to  make  sure  the  sherry  does  not  evaporate  while  slowly 

cooking  for  40  minutes.  If  the  burner  is  too  hot,  the  liquid  will  evaporate 

and  the  chicken  will  burn. 

Isabel  Owen 


248  Meats  and  Poultry 


Birmingham  Chicken  Casserole 

Serves  Eight 

6  chicken  breasts  6  tablespoons  dry  sherry 

4  ounces  Vermicelli  pasta  1  (4-oz)  can  sliced  mushrooms, 

2  medium  onions,  thinly  sliced  drained 

'/z  cup  margarine  Salt  and  pepper 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  Parmesan  cheese 

2  cups  sour  cream 

Boil  chicken  breasts  until  done,  reserving  broth.  Remove  chicken  from 
bones  and  cut  into  large  pieces.  Saute  thinly  sliced  onions  in  margarine  for 
10  minutes  or  until  limp.  Cook  vermicelli  in  remaining  chicken  broth. 
Drain  and  place  in  a  buttered  9x1 3-inch  casserole  dish.  Combine  soup,  sour 
cream,  sherry  and  mushrooms.  Add  chicken.  Mix  well  and  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over  vermicelli  and  cover  with  Parmesan  cheese. 
Bake  at  300  degrees  for  45  to  60  minutes. 

This  casserole  freezes  well  before  or  after  baking.  It  always  stays  moist  and 

is  good  reheated.  A  pound  of  cooked  shrimp  can  be  added 

for  special  occasions. 

Betty  Cobb 


Meats  and  Poultry  249 


Some  of  my  happiest  memories 
of  Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church  revolve  around  our 
wonderful  DC E,  Eleanor  Belk. 
Katherine  Mattocks  and  I  were 
asked  to  plan  a  farewell  tribute 
for  Eleanor  in  honor  of  her 
many  years  of  service.    What  fun 
we  had  toasting  her.    We  put  her 
on  a  throne,  and  Randy  Taylor 
presented  her  with  a  list  of 
6, 000  people  to  call  on  during 
her  retirement!  For  years, 
Eleanor  put  on  the  Christmas 
pageant;  so  we  dressed  up  some 
elders  (Morton  Church,  Charlie 
Akers  and  Buddy  Carson)  as 
wise  men,  and  they  sang  to  her. 
In  honor  of  her  capable 
directing  of  weddings,  the  young 
couples  did  a  song  and  dance  to 
the  tune  of  "Get  Me  to  the 
Church  on  Time.  "  I  am 
thankful  to  say  that  after  she 
retired,  she  gave  us  many  more 
good  things  to  remember  before 
she  died.  She  was  truly  an 
angel. 

Me-Me  Brilev 


Booster  Club  Chicken  and 
Wild  Rice  Casserole 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


1  cup  chopped  onion 

1  cup  butter 
Vi  cup  flour 

2  (4'/2-oz)  cans  sliced  mushrooms 

3  cans  chicken  broth  (or  3  cups) 
3  cups  half-and-half 


1  (6-o/)  box  long  grain  and  wild 

rice,  cooked  as  directed 
'A  cup  diced  pimento  (4-oz  jar) 
4  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 
3  teaspoons  salt 
lA  teaspoon  pepper 


6  cups  chicken,  cooked  and  diced  1  cup  slivered  almonds  (optional) 

In  large  skillet,  saute  onion  and  butter  until  tender.  Stir  in  flour  and  cook  2 
to  3  minutes.  Combine  mushroom  juice  and  broth  to  make  3  cups.  Slowly 
stir  into  onion  mixture.  Stir  in  half-and-half  and  cook  until  thick.  Combine 
remaining  ingredients  in  large  bowl  and  add  sauce.  Put  in  large  casserole 
dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  45  minutes. 

This  is  special  because  the  white  sauce  is  made  from  scratch.  Freezes  well 

Jan  Swetenburg 


250  Meats  and  Poultiy 


Chicken  and  Pasta  Bake 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  cup  sliced  mushrooms 
1  cup  sliced  zucchini 
Vi  cup  chopped  celery 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 
3  tablespoons  margarine 
1  (14V4-OZ)  can  whole  tomatoes, 
drained  and  chopped 


1  teaspoon  basil 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
8  ounces  shell  macaroni,  cooked 

and  drained 
3  cups  cooked,  chopped  chicken 
VA  cups  whipping  cream 
1  cup  Monterey  Jack  cheese 
'A  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Saute  first  five  ingredients  in  margarine  until  slightly  tender.  Stir  in 
tomatoes,  basil,  and  salt.  Set  aside.  Combine  pasta,  vegetables  and  chicken 
in  a  large  bowl.  Spoon  mixture  into  an  1 1x7x1  Vi-inch  baking  dish. 
Combine  whipping  cream  and  cheeses  in  medium  saucepan.  Cook  over  low 
heat  until  cheese  melts,  stirring  frequently.  Pour  sauce  over  pasta  mixture. 
To  store,  cover  and  refrigerate  up  to  24  hours  (may  freeze).  To  serve,  bake, 
uncovered,  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes  or  until  thoroughly  heated. 


Always  a  crowd pleaser. 


Lilla  Austin 


Crunchy  Chicken  Casserole 


'A  cup  celery 

%  cup  mayonnaise 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  can  chopped  water  chestnuts 

1  package  sliced  almonds 


1  cup  cooked  rice 

Dash  salt  and  pepper 

VA  cups  cooked,  chopped  chicken 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 


2  cups  corn  flakes 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  butter  and  corn  flakes.  Place  in  baking  dish. 
Top  with  broken  corn  flakes.  Drizzle  butter  on  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  heated  through. 

Perfect  dish  to  take  to  friends  who  have  just  had  babies  -  also  an  easy 
family  dinner. 

Maty  Beth  Mclntyre 

Meats  and  Poultry  251 


Chicken  Divan 
Variations: 

>•"  Substitute  asparagus  for 
broccoli  and  chicken 
dijon  soup  for  cream  of 
chicken  soup. 

Claire  Buie 


Substitute  3  boxes  frozen 
chopped  spinach,  thawed 
and  squeezed  dry,  for 
broccoli. 

Nancv  Elberson 


Chicken  Divan 

Serves  Eight 


2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Vi  teaspoon  curry  powder 

2  (lOVi-oz)  packages  frozen 

broccoli,  lightly  steamed 


2  cups  cooked,  diced  chicken 

(3  breasts) 
1  cup  grated  cheese 
1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 
V2  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 


Mix  soup,  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice  and  curry  powder.  Butter  casserole 
dish.  Spread  broccoli,  chicken  and  soup  mixture  in  casserole  dish.  Mix 
breadcrumbs  with  butter.  Layer  grated  cheese  and  breadcrumbs  over  top  of 
casserole.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes. 

Two  cans  drained  green  beans  may  be  substituted  for  broccoli. 

Jolinda  Boelkins 

Chicken  Fantastic 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


2V2  cups  cooked,  cubed  chicken 

1  (6-oz)  box  Uncle  Ben's  Herbed 
Wild  Rice,  cooked 

1  (10-oz)  package  frozen  French- 
style  green  beans 

1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 


1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1 2  cup  margarine,  melted 
1  (8-oz)  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 
3  tablespoons  chopped  pimento 
3  tablespoons  chopped  onion 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  put  into  a  greased  9x1 3-inch  casserole  dish. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Can  be  frozen.  A  company  pleaser  given  to  me  by  my  special  Mother. 

Sallie  Lowrance 


252  Meats  and  Poultry 


For  ten  years  I  served  as 
chairman  of  our  church 's 
Weekday  School  Committee, 
composed  of  parents,  elders  and 
deacons.  Miss  Adeline  Hill  was 
the  DCE  who  advised  us  in  our 
work.    We  had  very  high 
standards  for  our  school  with 
the  finest  teachers  and 
administrators,  and  that 
continues  today. 

Dorothv  L.  Ross 


Chicken  Provence 

Serves  Four 


4  boneless  chicken  breasts 
Vt  cup  lemon  juice 
Salt,  pepper,  fresh  or  dried  basil, 
oregano,  rosemary,  celery  salt 
2  yellow  squash,  sliced 


2  zucchini,  sliced 

1  large  sweet  onion,  sliced 

2  unpeeled  tomatoes,  sliced 

1  (2'/2-oz)  can  sliced  ripe  black 
olives 


Place  chicken  breasts  in  bottom  of  casserole  dish.  Pour  lemon  juice  over 
chicken.  Sprinkle  herbs  and  seasoning  over  chicken.  Layer  squash, 
zucchini  and  onion  on  top  of  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  herbs  and  seasonings. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Place  tomatoes  on  top  and  add  herbs 
and  seasonings.  Top  with  olives.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  15  more  minutes. 
Bake  longer  if  making  a  larger  casserole. 

This  is  my  version  of  what  we  enjoyed  in  Provence.  It  is  a  good  casserole  to 
take  to  friends.  It  can  be  reheated  in  a  microwave  oven. 

Jo  Claire  Dulin 

Hot  Chicken  Salad 


2  cups  chopped  chicken 

1  cup  chopped  celery 

'A  cup  chopped  almonds 
Vz  to  %  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 


2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 

Topping: 

Bread  crumbs 

Cheddar  or  Parmesan  cheese 

Diced  pimento 


Mix  first  6  ingredients  together.  Place  in  greased  1  '/--quart  baking  dish. 
Bake  at  375  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  stir  in  chopped 
eggs.  Top  with  breadcrumbs  and  cheese.  Decorate  with  pimento. 

Dorothv  Ross 


Meats  and  Poultry  253 


Our  church  does  a  wonderful 
job  of  celebrating  the  various 
holidays  surrounding  Jesus: 
Advent  with  the  wreath  and 
candles  every  Sunday  leading 
up  to  Christmas,  the  Christmas 
Eve  services  with  pageantiy  and 
candlelight,  remarkable  Lenten 
services  and  Easter,  which  is  my 
favorite  day  at  MPPC.    We  have 
been  through  somber  services  in 
the  week  before,  anticipating 
Sunday  and  what  it  means. 
Then  it  arrives  in  the  most 
magnificent  way  with  the  cross 
of  flowers.  Every  year,  I  can't 
wait  to  see  the  incredible  cross 
covered  with  flowers  from  the 
yards  of  our  congregation.  Its 
vibrant  colors  represent  the 
hope  and  life  that  Jesus 's 
resurrection  means  to  us. 

Mary  Jo  Ashcraft 


Chicken  Spectacular 


Sen>es  Sixteen 


3  cups  cooked,  cut  up  chicken 
1  package  Uncle  Ben's  Wild  Rice 

mix,  cooked 
1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 
1  medium  jar  sliced  pimientos 


2  cans  French  Style  green  beans, 

drained 
1  cup  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 
1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 
Salt,  pepper,  curry  powder  to  taste 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  large  bowl.  Pour  into  greased  3-quart 
casserole  dish.  Refrigerate  if  not  baking  immediately.  Bring  to  room 
temperature  before  placing  in  oven.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

This  recipe  is  good  for  a  large  crowd.  It  was  given  to  me  by  Arline  Taylor, 
wife  of  former  minister,  Randy  Taylor. 

Kathryn  Preyer 

Warm  Chicken  and  Shrimp  Salad 


3  boneless  chicken  breast  halves, 
cooked  and  coarsely  chopped 

1  pound  shrimp,  cooked  and 

peeled 
Vi  cup  toasted  almonds 

2  cups  diced  celery 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 


2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  mayonnaise 
%  teaspoon  pepper 

2  teaspoons  diced  onion 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
Vt  cup  grated  cheese 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Place  in  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  with 
paprika  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

This  is  great  over  linguine  or  spinach  fettucine,  or  sewed  in 
large  croissants. 

Man-  Jo  Ashcraft 


254  Meats  and  Poultrv 


Covered  Dish  Chicken  and  Rice 
Casserole 


%  cup  butter,  divided 

1  cup  shredded  onion,  white  or 

yellow 
2'  j  cups  chicken  stock,  broth,  or 

bouillon 
%  teaspoon  dried  thyme,  or 

more  if  using  fresh 
1  large  bay  leaf 
1  tablespoon  dried  parsley,  or 

more  if  using  fresh 
%  cup  uncooked  white  rice 
%  cup  uncooked  wild  rice 


5  boneless  chicken  breast  halves, 
poached  and  diced 

1  cup  broccoli,  steamed  and 
chopped  (optional) 

2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  whipping  cream 
1  cup  milk 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  pepper 
Vi  cup  grated  Gruyere  or  Jarlsberg 
cheese 


Melt  half  the  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Add  onions  and  saute  over  medium  heat 
until  soft  but  not  browned.  Add  chicken  stock,  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  parsley. 
Add  rice.  Stir  well.  Cover  and  cook  over  low  heat  until  rice  is  tender  and 
liquid  has  been  absorbed,  about  20  minutes.  Remove  bay  leaf  and  discard. 
Butter  a  round  baking  dish.  Pack  rice  mixture  around  sides  of  dish,  leaving 
center  vacant.  Fill  center  with  chicken.  Place  steamed  broccoli  over  rice. 

Melt  remaining  butter  in  the  saucepan.  Stir  in  flour  and  blend  well. 
Gradually  add  cream  and  then  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Keep  stirring  until 
mixture  reaches  boiling  point.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  salt,  pepper  and 
half  the  cheese.  Return  to  heat  and  cook  and  stir  for  5  minutes.  Pour  this 
mixture  over  the  entire  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese.  Bake  at 
400  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes  or  until  the  top  is  delicately  browned. 

Ann  Dorsett 


Meats  and  Poultn'  255 


/  was  "at  home  "  at  MPPC  but 
hadn  't  formally  joined  until  I 
was  a  freshman  at  Davidson 
College  and  roomed  on  the  hall 
with  Randy  Taylor 's  daughter. 
My  grandmother.  Rose  Evans 
Miller,  and  my  father,  Robert 
Evans  Miller,  were  already 
firmly  entrenched  on  the  7th 
row  of  the  11:00  service  every 
Sunday.  I  had  always 
considered  MPPC  as  much  a 
part  of  my  life  as  it  remains 
today.  From  age  4,  I  attended 
the  weekday  school,  my  fondest 
memory  being  of  growing  a 
real  garden  with  lettuce  and 
radishes  from  seeds  bought  out 
of  bins  at  Myers  Park  Hardware 
on  a  walking  field  trip.   Those 
were  the  best  lettuce,  radish  and 
mayonnaise  sandwiches  anyone 
ever  tasted!  I  was  a  Brownie 
here  and  "flew  up  "  to  Girl 
Scouts  around  a  reflecting  pool 
made  of  aluminum  foil.   Many 
an  afternoon  I  had  acorn  fights 
with  friends  on  the  old 
playground.  Later  I  smoked 
(coughed)  my  first  cigarette 
until  Eleanor  Belk  caught, 
strongly  chastised  and  sent  me 
home.  During  high  school 
years,  1  watched  boys  play 
Saturday  football  on  the  front 
lawn  and  listened  to  Bob  and 
Ann  's  beautiful  organ  music. 
Now  my  son  Dylan  continues 
ourfamilv  's  being  "at  home  " 
at  MPPC. 

Leslie  Miller  Webb 


Chicken  Strata 


16  slices  Pepperidge  Farm  bread 
3  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  (6-oz)  can  mushrooms 

2  cups  cooked,  cut  up  chicken 
'A  cup  chicken  broth 


1  cup  black  olives,  chopped 

54  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 


Butter  3-quart  casserole.  Place  8  slices  of  bread  on  bottom.  Mix  together 
eggs,  mushrooms,  chicken,  chicken  broth,  black  olives,  and  mayonnaise. 
Spread  over  bread  in  casserole.  Add  remainder  of  bread.  Mix  sour  cream 
and  chicken  soup  and  spread  on  top  of  bread.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes. 

Harriet  Barnhardt 

Deluxe  Chicken  Enchiladas 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


1  (4'/2-oz)  can  chopped  green 

chiles,  drained 
4  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 
Vt  teaspoon  cumin 

2  cups  shredded  rotisserie  chicken, 

cut  in  bite-size  pieces 
8  (7-inch)  flour  tortillas 


1  (U-oz)  jar  salsa 
1  (15-oz)  can  chili  without  beans 
1  cup  finely  shredded  Monterey 
Jack  and/or  Cheddar  cheese 
Sliced  black  olives,  chopped 
Green  onions  (optional  garnish) 


In  a  bowl,  stir  together  chiles,  cream  cheese,  and  cumin  until  thoroughly 
combined.  Stir  in  chicken.  Open  package  of  tortillas  and  place  package  in 
microwave  oven.  Microwave  on  high  power  for  1  minute,  until  tortillas  are 
softened.  Spread  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  chicken  mixture  on  each  tortilla 
and  roll  up.  Place  seam  sides  down  in  a  greased  9x1 2-inch  baking  pan. 
Combine  salsa  and  chili  and  pour  over  enchiladas.  Top  with  cheese.  Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes,  until  hot  and  bubbly.  Garnish  with  olives 
and  green  onion,  if  desired. 

Donna  Wit/nan 


256  Meats  and  Poultry 


Poppy  Seed 
Chicken 

Serves  Six 

4  chicken  breasts 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  cup  sour  cream 

4  tablespoons  poppy  seeds 

3  cups  crushed  Ritz  crackers 
%  cup  butter,  melted 

1  cup  sour  cream 

Cook  chicken  breasts  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Mix  soup, 
sour  cream  and  chicken.  Set 
aside.  In  separate  bowl,  mix 
poppy  seeds,  cracker  crumbs 
and  melted  butter.  Place  half 
of  the  crumb  mixture  in  the 
bottom  of  a  casserole  dish; 
pour  in  chicken  mixture  and 
top  with  remaining  cracker 
crumbs.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  35  minutes.  Can  be 
served  as  is  or  over  cooked 
rice. 

Cheryl  Steele 


Mildred's  Chicken  Casserole 


Serves  Twelve 


2  cans  artichoke  hearts,  drained 

3  cups  cooked,  cut  up  chicken 

2  cans  chicken  mushroom  soup 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 


%  teaspoon  curry  powder 

1  can  mushrooms,  drained 
l'/i  cups  bread  crumbs 

2  teaspoons  butter 


Arrange  artichokes  on  bottom  of  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  chicken 
and  mushrooms  over  top.  Mix  soup,  mayonnaise,  curry  powder  and  lemon 
juice.  Spread  over  chicken  mixture.  Sprinkle  breadcrumbs  over  top  and  dot 
with  butter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Mary  Irwin 

New  Member  Casserole 

Serves  Thirty 


2  quarts  chicken  breast,  cooked 

and  cubed 
9  packages  broccoli  spears 

3  medium  onions,  chopped 
I  pound  mushrooms,  sliced 

4  cans  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
3  pounds  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 


3  tablespoons  soy  sauce 

Vi  cup  butter 

2  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 

1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  large  jar  pimentos 

Slivered  almonds 


Steam  broccoli  and  drain  well.  Layer  broccoli  and  then  chicken  in  four 
9x1 3-inch  baking  dishes.  To  make  sauce,  saute  onions  and  mushrooms  in 
large  saucepan  and  then  add  all  other  ingredients  except  almonds.  Simmer 
until  cheese  melts.  Pour  sauce  over  casseroles  and  sprinkle  with  almonds. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes.  Freezes  well. 

Randy  and  I  enjoyed  getting  to  know  new  members  by  hosting  dinners  in 
our  home,  using  this  dish  as  the  main  course. 

Arline  Taylor 


Meats  and  Poultry  257 


Chicken  Pot  Pie 


Serves  Six 


1  cup  chopped  onion 
1  cup  chopped  celery 
1  cup  chopped  carrot 
Vi  cup  melted  butter 
Vi  cup  all-purpose  flour 

1  cup  half-and-half 

2  cups  chicken  broth 


Vi  package  frozen  peas,  thawed 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

4  cups  chopped  cooked  chicken 

Parsley 

1  frozen  pie  crust,  thawed 


Saute  onion,  celery  and  carrot  in  butter  for  10  minutes.  Add  flour,  stirring 
constantly  for  1  minute  until  well  blended.  Combine  half-and-half  with 
broth.  Gradually  stir  into  pan.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick  and 
bubbly.  Add  peas,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  chicken.  Ladle  mixture  into  a 
shallow  2-quart  round  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  with  parsley.  Top  with  pie 
crust,  making  several  slits  across  top.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  25  minutes, 
until  golden  brown. 

This  recipe  has  become  a  family  favorite.  I  serve  it  with  Waldorf  Salad  and 
bran  muffins. 

Catherine  Collins 

Chicken  Pot  Pie  With  Sour  Cream 
and  Cheddar  Cheese 


6  potatoes,  peeled,  cubed,  cooked, 

and  drained 
1  small  onion,  chopped 
1  small  can  carrots,  drained 
1  tablespoon  butter 
1/4  large  cans  white  chicken 


1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  cup  sour  cream 

Vi  cup  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 

1  tablespoon  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

1  package  pie  crusts 


Saute  onion  in  butter.  Stir  in  remaining  ingredients.  Place  one  crust  in  pie 
pan.  Fill  with  chicken  mixture.  Top  with  remaining  crust.  Make  several 
slits  in  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour.  Cool  15  to  20 
minutes. 

Pamela  Mav 


258  Meats  and  Poultrv 


Hints  for  Pastry: 

'•"  Keep  the  moisture  out 
and  the  air  in. 

*"  Too  much  flour  makes  it 
tough;  too  much 
shortening  makes  it  dry 
and  crumbly;  too  much 
liquid  makes  it  heavy  and 
soggy. 

*"  All  materials  should  be  as 
cold  as  possible. 

w  Chilling  dough  for  12 
hours  tenderizes  it. 

"•"  Handle  dough  lightly  and 
very  little. 

From  Happiness  is  Dinner  at 
Granny's. 

Caroline  McMillan 


Deluxe  Chicken  Pie 


6  boneless  chicken  breasts, 
cut  in  1-inch  pieces 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 
4  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced 

2  large  carrots,  sliced 
1  stalk  celery,  chopped 
1  cup  chicken  broth 
lA  cup  dry  white  wine 
W  teaspoon  parsley 
W  teaspoon  chopped  chives 
V*  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
%  teaspoon  garlic  powder 
%  teaspoon  chervil  leaves 


Serves  Six 

V»  teaspoon  white  pepper 

lA  teaspoon  black  pepper 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  bay  leaf 

1  tablespoon  plus  1  teaspoon  cornstarch 

2  tablespoons  water 

1  (1034-oz)  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
Vi  cup  sour  cream 

Vi  cup  shredded  Swiss  cheese 
Vi  cup  shredded  mild  or  sharp  Cheddar 
cheese 

2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
Pastry  for  double  crust  pie 


Saute  chicken  and  onion  in  butter  in  a  large  skillet  5  for  minutes.  Add 
mushrooms  and  next  14  ingredients.  Cover  and  simmer  10  minutes;  then 
remove  bay  leaf.  Combine  cornstarch  and  water,  stirring  until  blended.  Stir 
into  chicken  mixture  and  cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until 
mixture  comes  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  soup,  sour  cream 
and  cheeses. 

Roll  half  the  pastry  to  '/s-inch  thickness  on  a  lightly  floured  surface.  Fit  into 
a  2'/2-quart  shallow  casserole.  Spoon  chicken  mixture  into  the  prepared 
pastry.  Roll  remaining  pastry  to  '/s-inch  thickness.  Cut  into  '/2-inch  strips 
using  a  fluted  pastry  wheel.  Moisten  edge  of  pastry  in  pie  plate.  Arrange 
strips  in  lattice  design  over  chicken  filling.  Trim  edges  and  seal.  Bake  at 
400  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes  or  until  lightly  browned. 

This  may  look  like  a  long  ingredient  list,  but  it  will  be  worth  your  time! 

Susan  Woollen 


Meats  and  Poultiy  259 


On  the  occasion  of  Granny 
Shepherd's  95'1'  birthday  in 
August  1979,  Mimi  Wood  and  I 
launched  a  compilation  of  our 
family 's  favorite  recipes.   With 
the  enthusiastic  involvement  of 
McMillans  and  Woods,  we 
published  Happiness  is  Dinner  at 
Granny 's  in  1981.   Chicken  Pie 
is  the  family  favorite! 

Caroline  McMillan 


Shortcut  substitutions  for 
busy  New  Millennium  cooks: 

*~  Add  several  chicken 
bouillon  cubes,  salt  and 
pepper  to  make  a  strong, 
well-seasoned  stock. 

•"  Use  frozen  pie  shells  or 
Annie's  Frozen 
Dumplings  for  the 
dumplings  and  crust. 

*"  Use  pre-cooked  chicken, 
either  frozen,  vacuum- 
packed  or  rotisserie, 
cubed  or  pulled  into  bite- 
size  pieces. 

Caroline  McMillan 


Granny's  Chicken  Pie 


Serves  Four  to  Eight 


1  frying  or  stewing  chicken 
4  cups  water 
1  carrot,  sliced 

1  onion,  sliced 

2  stalks  celery  with  leaves 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Hard-boiled  eggs  (optional) 


Crust  and  Dumplings: 

Wi  cups  sifted  flour 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

5  tablespoons  shortening 

VS  cup  ice  water 
Chicken  bouillon  cubes 
Dabs  of  butter 


Wash  chicken.  Place  water,  carrot,  onion,  celery,  salt,  and  pepper  in  a 
stewing  pot  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Add  chicken,  either  whole  or  cut 
into  pieces,  and  simmer  gently  in  tightly  covered  pot  until  it  is  tender.  Let 
chicken  cool  in  stock.  Lift  out  chicken:  take  off  skin  and  remove  chicken 
from  bones.  Strain  stock.  This  can  be  done  the  day  before.  Refrigerate 
chicken  and  stock  until  ready  to  assemble  pie. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Using  pastry  blender  or  2  knives,  cut  shortening 
into  the  flour  until  it  feels  like  little  pills  or  course  cornmeal.  Sprinkle  3 
tablespoons  of  the  ice  water  over  the  mixture.  Blend  in  lightly.  Add  the 
rest  of  water  if  needed.  As  soon  as  dough  will  hold  together,  stop  handling 
it.  Divide  dough  in  half;  pat  each  half  into  a  ball  and  chill.  This  will  make 
a  pie  to  serve  4  or  5.  (For  a  larger  pie  to  serve  6  to  8,  Granny  used  3  cups  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4  heaping  tablespoons  shortening  and  2A  cup  milk). 

When  ready  to  assemble  pie.  roll  dough  out  thin  on  lightly  floured  surface. 
Cut  half  the  dough  into  long  strips  '/2-inch  wide  for  the  lattice  top.  Cut 
remaining  dough  into  small  squares  for  the  dumplings.  Bring  reserved 
chicken  stock  to  a  boil  in  a  large  pot,  seasoning  well  with  several  chicken 
bouillon  cubes  and  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  15  or  20  dumplings  at  a 
time.  Drop  them  in  the  stock,  simmer  for  about  10  minutes;  and  remove 
with  slotted  spoon  when  done. 

Place  cooked  chicken  in  a  rectangular  baking  dish.  Cover  chicken  with  a 
layer  of  dumplings  (and  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs,  if  desired)  and  a  few  dabs 
of  butter.  Pour  stock  over  all.  This  will  look  too  juicy  but  much  of  the 
liquid  cooks  out.  Lay  strips  of  pastry  in  lattice  design  across  the  top.  Bake 
at  400  degrees  until  pastry  browns  (about  30  minutes). 

Caroline  McMillan 


260   Meals  and  Poultry 


//  is  hard  to  believe  that  forty 
years  have  passed  since  I  was 
privileged  to  serve  as  President 
of  the  Women  of  the  Church  at 
MPPC.   That  opportunity  was  a 
valuable  learning  experience, 
and  there  were  many  joys 
associated  with  it.  Perhaps  the 
most  meaningful  legacy  from 
that  year  was  beginning 
the  tradition  of  the  Christmas 
Communion.  May  Lebby 
Rogers  and  Maty  Catherine 
Gaskell.  both  past  presidents, 
helped  write  the  litany  for  it. 
Eveiy  year  Floread  Lee,  who 
later  served  as  president,  invited 
a  group  of  friends  from 
neighboring  churches  to  attend 
the  communion,  and  following 
the  service  the  group  gathered 
at  her  home  for  lunch.  She 
served  a  delicious  chicken 
tetrazzini  casserole. 

Damn'  Verner 


Chicken  Tetrazzini 


2  (S'/i  to  4  pound)  fryers 

'/:  pound  thin  spaghetti 

1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

Oil 

1  (8-oz)  can  mushrooms 

1  (4-oz)  jar  chopped  pimientos 


Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

Vi  cup  flour 

Milk 

Vi  pound  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

'A  pound  Velveeta  cheese 

Breadcrumbs 

Grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Stew  fryers  in  salted  water.  Cool  and  remove  meat  from  bones,  reserving 
broth.  Cook  spaghetti  in  reserved  broth  and  drain,  reserving  broth.  While 
spaghetti  is  cooking,  saute  onion  and  pepper  in  a  little  oil.  Add  mushrooms, 
pimientos,  chicken,  onion,  and  pepper  to  the  cooked  spaghetti.  In  a  medium 
saucepan,  combine  melted  butter  and  flour  and  cook  over  medium  heat. 
Add  milk  and  reserved  broth  to  make  a  thick  sauce,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
Cheddar  cheese  and  Velveeta.  Stir  over  medium  heat  until  cheese  is 
melted.  Combine  spaghetti  mixture  and  sauce  and  place  in  two  greased 
2-quart  casserole  dishes.  (May  be  frozen  at  this  point).  Top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  bake  at  375  degrees  for  45 
minutes. 

Danny  Verner 


Meats  and  Poultry  261 


This  dish  was  a  staple  at  Room 
In  the  Inn  oar  first  year.  It  is 
great  to  split  into  two  casseroles 
and  freeze  one  for  another  day. 
I  make  it  to  take  to  new  moms 
and  neighbors. 

Scottie  Trapp 


The  first  year  ofRITI  (Room  in 
the  Inn).  Scottie  coordinated  the 
evening  meal  and  took  our 
daughters  Simmons  and 
Catherine,  about  6  and  4  at  the 
time,  with  her.  I  met  them  there, 
arriving  shortly  after  people  sat 
down  to  eat  at  tables  for  eight, 
church  members  and  our 
homeless  neighbors  from  Urban 
Ministry  intermingled.  I  saw 
that  the  girls  were  at  a  table  full 
of  men;  so  I  sat  somewhere  else. 
Afterwards,  I  asked  the  girls 
about  their  experience  and 
commented  on  the  church 
members  sitting  with  them;  two 
that  I  recalled  were  George 
MacBain  and  Jim  Wallace. 
Simmons  looked  puzzled  and 
said,  "But,  Dad,  I  thought  they 
were  ALL  homeless.  " 


Danny  Trapp 


Chicken  Tetrazzini 


Serves  Twelve 


2  cans  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
l'/z  cups  chicken  broth,  warm 
'A  cup  butter,  melted 
1  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
1  (4-o/>  can  mushrooms,  drained 
1  tablespoon  chopped  celery 
1  tablespoon  grated  onion 
1  tablespoon  chopped  pimento 


1  tablespoon  parsley 

2  teaspoons  salt 
Pepper  to  taste 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
4  cups  cooked,  chopped  chicken 
1  (8-oz)  box  vermicelli,  broken 
and  cooked 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  chicken  and  vermicelli.  Add  chicken,  then 
vermicelli.  Bake  in  covered  3-quart  casserole  dish  for  45  minutes  at  350 
degrees. 

Scottie  Trapp 

Chicken  Tetrazzini  Light 

Serves  Five  to  Six 


2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

%  cup  flour 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Vt  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  chicken  broth 

1  cup  2%  milk 


2  tablespoons  sherry 
8  ounces  spaghetti,  cooked  and  drained 
2  cups  cooked,  cut  up  chicken  or  turkey 
1  (4-oz)  can  sliced  mushrooms,  drained 
Vi  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Melt  butter  in  large  saucepan  over  low  heat.  Blend  in  flour  and  seasonings; 
cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  until  mixture  is  smooth  and  bubbly.  Remove 
from  heat.  Stir  in  broth  and  milk.  Heat  to  boiling,  stirring  constantly.  Boil 
and  stir  1  minute.  Stir  in  sherry,  spaghetti,  chicken  and  mushrooms.  Pour 
into  ungreased  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese. 
Bake,  uncovered,  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  hot  and  bubbly.  If 
desired,  place  briefly  under  broiler  to  brown. 

This  lighter  variation  of  the  original  uses  half  the  butter  and  substitutes 
2%  milk  for  the  cream. 

Elizabeth  Chaplin 


262  Meats  and  Poultry 


This  recipe  belonged  to  Mrs. 
John  E.  Latta  Chapman  -  a 
founding  member  ofMPPC. 

Stacey  and  Todd  Chapman 


Chicken  Tetrazzini 

Serves  Ten 


4  cups  cooked,  cut  up  chicken 
4-ounces  vermicelli,  cooked 

and  drained 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  soup  can  milk 
1  small  can  mushroom  slices, 

divided 


1  cup  grated  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 
1  cup  grated  medium  Cheddar 

cheese 
%  cup  Parmesan  cheese 
Saltine  crackers 
Vi  cup  butter,  melted 


Place  half  the  chicken  in  greased  9x1 3-inch  casserole.  Thin  soup  with  milk. 
Cover  chicken  with  half  the  mushrooms,  1  cup  of  cheese  (half  sharp  and 
half  medium),  and  half  the  soup  mixture.  Next  layer  cooked  spaghetti, 
remaining  cheese  and  remaining  soup  mixture,  followed  by  remaining 
mushrooms  and  chicken.  Cover  with  crumbled  saltines.  Add  the  melted 
butter,  covering  the  crackers,  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  for  45  minutes  or  until  brown  and  bubbly. 


Mary  Frances  Chapman 


Meats  and  Poultry  263 


To  toast  almonds,  spread 
on  cookie  sheet  and  bake 
at  350  degrees  for  5  to  7 
minutes  or  until  golden 
brown,  stirring 
occasionally.  Or  spread 
almonds  in  thin  layer  in 
microwave-safe  pie  pan. 
Microwave  on  HIGH  for 
4  to  7  minutes  or  until 
golden  brown,  stirring 
frequently. 

Lynda  Slurier 


Chicken  Waldorf  Pizza 


Serves  Six 


1  (10-oz)  can  Pillsbury 

Refrigerated  Pizza  Crust 
1  cup  cooked,  chopped  chicken 
1  cup  chopped  apple 
'/2  cup  sliced  almonds,  toasted 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 


1  teaspoon  dried  tarragon  leaves 
V*  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

8  ounces  shredded  Swiss  cheese 

2  teaspoons  chopped  green  onions 


Lightly  grease  14-inch  pizza  pan.  Unroll  dough  and  place  on  greased  pan. 
Starting  at  center,  press  out  dough  with  hands.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  6  to 
8  minutes  or  until  crust  begins  to  brown.  Remove  crust  from  oven. 

Combine  chicken,  apple,  almonds,  mayonnaise,  tarragon,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  well.  Spread  mixture  evenly  over  partially  baked  crust.  Sprinkle  with 
cheese.  Bake  10  to  12  minutes  or  until  cheese  is  melted  and  crust  is  deep 
golden  brown.  Sprinkle  with  green  onions.  Cut  into  wedges. 


Lynda  Sluiler,  Staff 


264   Meals  and  Poultry 


Formal  Yardbirds 

Semes  Eight 

2  cups  cooked,  diced  chicken  1  tablespoon  diced  pimento 

1  (3-oz)  package  cream  cheese  1  tablespoon  Italian  salad  dressing 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  (HVz-oz)  box  frozen  Pepperidge 
Vi  teaspoon  salt  Farm  pastry  sheets 

Vi  teaspoon  pepper  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

2  tablespoons  milk  Paprika 

1  tablespoon  diced  onion  Croutons,  optional 

In  medium  bowl,  mix  chicken,  cream  cheese,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  milk, 
onion,  pimento  and  salad  dressing  until  well  blended.  Thaw  pastry  sheets, 
roll  out  slightly  and  cut  each  one  into  4  rectangles.  Add  %  cup  chicken 
mixture  to  center  of  each  rectangle.  Fold  over  and  crimp  three  sides  with 
fork.  Place  on  ungreased  baking  sheet.  Brush  tops  with  melted  butter  and 
sprinkle  on  paprika.  Sprinkle  with  crushed  croutons,  if  desired.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  golden  brown. 

Chris  Kirkland 

Baked  Cranberry  Walnut  Relish 

1  (12-oz)  bag  fresh  cranberries  1  cup  orange  marmalade 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  of  1  lemon 
1  cup  coarsely  broken  walnut  meats 

Place  washed  cranberries  in  flat  baking  dish.  Cover  and  bake  at  350 
degrees  for  lA  hour.  Stir  sugar  into  berries,  cover  again,  and  bake  for  an 
additional  lA  hour.  While  berries  are  baking,  toast  walnuts  in  oven.  Watch 
them  carefully,  as  they  can  burn  easily.  At  end  of  baking  time,  stir  walnuts, 
orange  marmalade,  and  lemon  juice  into  berries.  Keeps  for  weeks  in 
refrigerator.  Can  also  be  frozen. 

Delicious  with  turkey,  chicken  dishes  or  sandwiches.  Even  good  on  your 

breakfast  toast.  I  have  used  this  recipe  for  a  number  of  years,  and  usually 

triple  or  quadruple  the  recipe  so  that  I  can  give  a  few  small  jars  of  relish  as 

little  gifts  at  Christmas  time. 

Billie  Frazier 

Meats  and  Poultry  265 


Chicken  Picatta 

Serves  Four 


4  whole  chicken  breasts,  skinned, 

boned  and  halved 
Vi  cup  flour 
Wi  teaspoons  salt 
Vi  teaspoon  freshly  ground  pepper 
Paprika 
Vi  cup  clarified  butter 


1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

2  to  4  tablespoons  dry  Madeira  or 
water 

3  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice 
Lemon  slices 

2  to  4  tablespoons  capers  (optional) 
Vi  cup  minced  fresh  parsley 


Place  chicken  breasts  between  2  sheets  of  waxed  paper  and  pound  them 
until  about  '/4-inch  thick.  Combine  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  in  a  bag. 
Heat  butter  and  olive  oil  in  large  skillet  until  bubbling.   Saute  chicken 
breasts,  a  few  at  a  time,  2  to  3  minutes  on  each  side.  Do  not  overcook. 
Drain  cooked  breasts  on  paper  towels  and  keep  warm.  Stir  Madeira  or 
water  into  drippings,  scraping  bottom  of  skillet  to  loosen  any  browned  bits. 
Add  lemon  juice  and  heat  briefly.  Return  chicken  to  skillet,  interspersing 
with  lemon  slices,  and  heat  until  sauce  thickens.  Add  capers  if  desired. 
Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley. 


Easy. 


+      * 


Kathryn  Goode  Sherard 


266   Meals  and  Poultry 


Baked  Quail 

Serves  Four 

4  tablespoons  margarine  8  quail 

1  tablespoon  oil  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

2  bunches  green  onions  with  'A  soup  can  sherry 
tops,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Vi  cup  flour 

Heat  margarine  and  oil  together  in  a  skillet.  Saute  green  onions  in  the 
mixture  until  softened.  Remove  onions  with  a  slotted  spoon  to  a  bowl  and 
reserve  oil.  Mix  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Lightly  flour  quail  and  brown  in 
reserved  oil.  Remove  to  a  casserole  dish.  Return  onions  to  the  pan  and  add 
soup  and  sherry.  Mix  well  and  heat  until  almost  boiling.  Pour  soup  mixture 
over  quail.  Cover  casserole  tightly  and  bake  at  225  degrees  for  2  hours. 

Cherie  Higgins 


Turkey  and  Broccoli  Casserole 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 

3  cups  cooked,  chopped  turkey  1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  chopped  celery  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup, 

1  (8-oz)  can  sliced  water  chestnuts  thinned  with  1  soup  can  water 

1  cup  broccoli,  cut  into  small  1  cup  cooked  rice 

pieces  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  (2-oz)  jar  pimento,  drained  Parmesan  cheese  and  paprika 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  put  in  a  greased  3 -quart  baking  dish.  Bake 
at  350  degrees  until  it  starts  to  show  bubbles.  Remove  and  sprinkle  with 
paprika  and  Parmesan  cheese.  You  can  also  heat  in  a  microwave  for  20 
minutes  since  all  ingredients  are  cooked. 

This  is  a  great  way  to  use  leftover  turkey.   You  can  add  or  subtract 

ingredients  to  suit  your  taste.  Just  be  sure  to  use  enough  water  to  keep  it 

from  being  too  diy. 

Betty  Whitsett  Bridges 
Meats  and  Poultry  267 


Grilled 
Turkey  Breast 

Marinade: 

1  cup  Sauterne  wine 

lA  cup  oil,  peanut  preferred 

Vi  cup  soy  sauce 

1  teaspoon  minced  garlic 

1  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

2  boneless  turkey  breasts 

To  make  marinade,  combine 
first  five  ingredients.  Flatten 
turkey  breasts  by  pounding 
between  plastic  wrap. 
Marinate  breasts  all  day  or 
overnight.  Grill  4  to  6  inches 
above  medium  coals  5  to  7 
minutes  per  side  per  1  inch  of 
thickness. 

Daphne  Little 


Turkey  Basil  Piccata 


Serves  Three  to  Four 


2  tablespoons  flour 
V*  teaspoon  salt 
Va  teaspoon  pepper 

1  (Yj-pound)  package  turkey  cutlets 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
4  cloves  garlic,  minced 


1  Vi  teaspoons  dried  or  1  'A 

tablespoons  chopped  fresh  basil 
Vi  cup  dry  white  wine 
VA  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice 
1  lemon,  sliced 


Combine  first  three  ingredients  in  shallow  dish.  Dredge  cutlets  in  flour 
mixture.  Pour  olive  oil  into  large  skillet.  Place  over  medium-high  heat 
until  hot.  Add  cutlets  and  cook  2'A  minutes  or  until  done,  turning  once. 
Remove  cutlets  from  skillet.  Add  garlic  and  basil  to  skillet,  stirring  to 
loosen  particles  from  bottom  of  skillet.  Add  wine,  lemon  juice  and  lemon 
slices.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  for  45  seconds.  Return  cutlets  to  pan. 
Cook  until  thoroughly  heated  or  until  it  is  cooked  the  way  you  like.  Serve 
immediately. 

Dot  Scott 

Cranberry  Chutney 

Yields  5  Half  Pint  Jars 


1  pound  fresh  cranberries 

1  cup  water 

2  sticks  cinnamon 
2Vi  cups  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  allspice 

%  teaspoon  ground  cloves 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 
1  apple,  peeled  and  chopped 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of 
1  orange  and  1  lemon 
lA  cup  raisins 
Vi  cup  cashews,  chopped 


Cook  cranberries  in  water  until  skins  pop.  Add  all  other  ingredients,  except 
nuts.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Cover  pan.  reduce  heat,  and  simmer  about  30 
minutes.  Watch  carefully;  stir  often  to  prevent  sticking.  When  thick, 
remove  cinnamon  sticks  and  add  nuts.  Ladle  into  hot,  sterilized  jars  and 
seal. 

Lib  Chapman 


268  Meats  and  Poultn 


One  Christmas  Eve,  as  Proctor 
Chambless,  Maggie  and  the 
youth  were  leading  the  sen'ice, 
all  the  sanctuary  lights  went 
out.  People  madly  searched  for 
Pete  and  Randy,  but  neither  of 
them  had  a  clue  where  the 
circuit  breaker  was.   We  believe 
it  was  Tommy  to  the  rescue.  At 
another  Christmas  Eve  sen'ice, 
when  MPPC s  first  pregnant  (8 
months)  preacher  was  leading 
the  sen'ice,  little  Kendall  Booe 
had  been  chosen  to  be  the  baby 
Jesus  for  the  nativity  scene.   The 
blanket  was  gently  laid  over  the 
straw,  ready  for  Mary  to  lay  the 
baby  in  the  manger,  but  Kendall 
was  crying  so  hard  in  the 
hallway  that  at  the  last  minute  a 
rubber  doll  had  to  be  found  to 
be  the  baby  Jesus.  Maggie  also 
was  the  first  minister  at  MPPC 
to  have  two  maternity  leaves 
written  into  her  contract,  and 
she  used  them  both.  Pete 
(bleaiy-eyed,  but  jovial) 
announced  the  births  during 
Common  Concerns  at  Sunday 
morning  worship— not  once,  but 
twice,  Pen  being  born  in 
January  1977  and  Meg  in 
September  1979--both  on  a 
Saturday  night.   The 
spontaneous  clapping  was  a 
touching  moment  for  Pete,  and 
we  remember  with  gratitude  the 
constant  nurturing  that  this 
congregation  gave  to  our 
children. 

Pete  and  Maggie  Peery 


Turkey  Ham  Casserole  Supreme 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


'A  cup  chopped  onions 

2  tablespoons  butter 

1  (4-oz)  can  sliced  mushrooms, 

undrained 
1  (5-oz)  can  water  chestnuts, 

drained 


2  tablespoons  dry  sherry 

2  cups  cooked,  cubed  turkey 
1  cup  cubed,  cooked  ham 

Vi  cup  shredded  Swiss  cheese 
1  cup  soft  breadcrumbs* 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter 


Saute  onion  in  butter  until  tender  but  not  browned.  Add  mushrooms,  water 
chestnuts,  sherry,  turkey  and  ham,  stirring  well.  Spoon  mixture  into  lightly 
greased,  shallow  2-quart  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  mixture  with  cheese. 
Combine  breadcrumbs  and  melted  butter.  Spoon  over  casserole.  Bake  at 
400  degrees  for  35  minutes. 

*  I  use  Pepperidge  Farm  cornbread  stuffing  mix.  Amounts  of  ham  and 
turkey  can  be  adjusted  according  to  what  is  available,  or  chicken  can  be 
used  in  place  of  turkey.  Can  be  prepared  ahead  and  frozen.  Bring  to  room 
temperature  before  baking. 

Apple  Cheese  Salad  makes  a  nice  accompaniment  with  this  dish, 
particularly  at  holiday  time. 

Billie  Frazier 


Meats  and  Poultry  269 


Rock  Cornish  Hens  with  Wild  Rice 


Senses  Six 


6  frozen  Rock  Cornish  hens, 

thawed 
8  green  onions  with  tops,  thinly 

sliced 
1  pound  mushrooms,  chopped 
Vi  cup  butter,  divided 
1  teaspoon  powdered  sage 


Vi  cup  minced  parsley 

1  cup  wild  rice,  washed  and  drained 

2Vi  cups  chicken  broth 

Vi  cup  dry  sherry 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  freshly  ground  pepper 


Remove  giblets  and  necks  from  hens  and  set  aside.  Wash  hens  and  dry 
thoroughly.  To  prepare  stuffing,  saute  onions  and  mushrooms  in  Vi  cup 
butter  for  5  minutes.  Remove  from  pan.  To  the  drippings,  add  sage, 
parsley,  wild  rice,  chicken  broth,  sherry,  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  raw 
giblets  and  necks.  Heat  to  boiling,  lower  heat,  and  cook  gently  about  45 
minutes.  Discard  necks.  Add  half  the  mushrooms  and  onions  to  the  rice 
mixture  and  stuff  hens.  Reserve  remaining  mushrooms  and  onions  for 
sauce.  Truss  hens  and  place  in  shallow  baking  pan.  Bake  at  375  degrees 
for  an  hour,  basting  2  or  3  times  with  Vi  cup  melted  butter.  Serve  hens 
garnished  with  watercress  and  accompanied  by  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Rock  Cornish  Hens 


Vi  cup  butter 

Vi  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  paprika 


34  cup  sherry 

%  cup  chicken  broth 

1  cup  sour  cream 


Melt  butter.  Blend  in  flour,  paprika,  sherry,  broth  and  the  remainder  of 
mushrooms  and  onions.  Cook  and  stir  until  thickened  and  smooth.  Gently 
blend  in  sour  cream  and  heat  through. 

/  sen'ed  this  at  my  first  dinner  party  some  50  years  ago  and  still  enjoy  it. 

Blxthe  McCradie  Link 


270  Meats  and  Poultry 


Fall  Retreat  at  Montreal 


111 


Tk 


he  Christ  candle  being  carried  down  the  center  aisle  on  Christmas  Eve 

while  the  bell  tolled  ♦>  The  Easter  cross  created  from  spring  flowers  from 

everyone 's  garden  ♦  Two  capital  campaigns  ♦  Powerful  corporate  worship 

with  inspirationally  magnificent  music  ♦  Chris  Cameron  hitting  the  high  note 

in  The  Lord's  Prayer  ♦  The  little  pre-schooler  who  when  he  passed  me  in  the 

hallway  (while  I  was  on  my  way  to  the  sanctuary  to  conduct  a  funeral, 

wearing  my  robe  and  clerical  collar)  looked  up  at  me,  smiled,  waved  and 

simply  said,  "Hi,  Jesus  "  ♦  Eleanor  Belk's  stained  glass  window  tour  ♦  Our 

welcoming  reception  with  what  seemed  like  a  huge  crowd  of  nice,  very 

friendly  strangers  -followed  eight  years  later  by  our  farewell  reception 

attended  by  a  huge  crowd  of  dear,  dear  friends  who  will  always  be  to  us  much 

like  family  ♦  The  energy  in  the  5  p.m.  Christmas  Eve  children  s  senice  ♦> 

Pounding  nails  into  a  cross  following  the  Maundy  Thursday  meal  ♦>  Putting 

up  the  sanctuaiy  candles  for  Christmas  Eve  worship  and  eating  a  family 

dinner  when  that  work  was  done  in  the  CLC  lounge  with  our  family  and  the 

church  maintenance  staff*  Fabulous  fellowship  and  abiding  friendships  built 

in  Alaska  ♦  Being  a  very  small  part  of  the  long  history  of  the  most  wonderful 

family  of  faith  I  have  ever  known! 

Tim  Croft 


R.  C.  Bryson  and  Tim  Croft  overseeing  construction 
of  the  Christian  Life  Center  in  1990 


£i^/a-ooij 


In  my  first  job  working  for  a 
small  manufacturing  company 
in  Baltimore,  the  big  reward  for 
some  heroic  deed  (they  didn  't 
throw  money  at  you  in  those 
days)  was  for  the  boss  to  take 
you  to  lunch.   These  lunches 
were  always  held  at  a  neighbor- 
hood tavern  named  Dubner  's, 
and  we  always  ate  in  the  dining 
room  above  the  bar.  I  'm  sure 
that  Dubner 's  had  a  menu,  but 
we  never  ordered  from  it  that  I 
recall;  it  was  always  a  crab 
cake,  coleslaw  and  French  fried 
potatoes.    Wlien  the  family 
transferred  to  Charlotte,  I  had 
my  boss  get  a  copy  of  Dubner 's 
recipe,  and  this  is  it. 

Darwin  Blaine 


Crab  Cakes 


Yields  12  to  14  Cakes 


'A  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

Vi  cup  minced  onion 

Butter 

1  pound  fresh  crab  meat 

1  large  egg 

2  tablespoons  Worcestershire 


2  tablespoons  prepared  mustard 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Vz  cup  breadcrumbs 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Cracker  crumbs,  finely  crushed 


Saute  celery  and  onion  in  butter.  Remove  any  small  shells  from  crab  meat. 
Mix  all  ingredients,  except  cracker  crumbs,  and  form  into  cakes  that  are  214 
to  3  inches  in  diameter  and  V*  inch  thick.  Lightly  coat  both  sides  with 
cracker  crumbs  (just  enough  to  keep  from  sticking  to  hands).  Deep  fat  fry 
until  golden  brown. 

Lisa  Did  a 

Dubner's  Crab  Cakes 

Yields  6  to  7  Cakes 


2  tablespoons  green  pepper, 

finely  diced 
1  tablespoon  mustard,  preferably 

Grey  Poupon 
1  large  egg 


1  shot  dry  cooking  sherry 
Hellmann's  low-fat  mayonnaise 
1  pound  fresh  lump  crab  meat 
3  slices  white  bread  (Arnold's  or 
Harris-Teeter's  English  Toasting) 


Mix  green  pepper,  mustard,  egg,  sherry  and  some  of  the  mayonnaise.  Tear 
bread  into  very  small  pieces  and  put  in  large  mixing  bowl.  Add  crab  meat. 
Mix  lightly  and  add  pepper  mixture.  Mix  all  ingredients  very  gently,  trying 
not  to  reduce  the  size  of  the  crab  pieces  any  more  than  necessary.  Add 
additional  mayonnaise  until  you  feel  you  can  mold  cakes  by  hand  and  have 
them  stay  together.  Broil  crab  cakes,  turning  so  both  sides  are  browned. 

This  recipe  serves  four.  If  you  're  lucky  and  the  guests  don  7  eat  them  all, 
the  crab  cakes  are  just  as  good  heated  for  lunch  the  next  day. 

Darwin  Blaine 


274  Seafood 


Crab  Imperial 

Serves  Four  to  Six 

1  pound  crab  meat 

2  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  (4-oz)  can  mushrooms 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 
lA  cup  dry  sherry 
'A  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  Tabasco 
Buttered  breadcrumbs 

Mix  first  7  ingredients. 
Divide  into  individual 
ramekins.  Top  with  buttered 
breadcrumbs.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  30  minutes. 

This  was  my  mother,  Louise 
Hill's,  recipe. 

Mary  Lou  Lindsey 


Frank's  Crab  Cakes 


Serves  Four  to  Six 


6  slices  bacon 

1  large  Vidalia  onion,  chopped 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped 

'A  green  bell  pepper,  or  %  red 

and  %  green  bell  pepper 
1  pound  crab  meat 
1  roll  Ritz  crackers,  crushed 


1  tablespoon  Grey  Poupon 

mustard 
XA  cup  mayonnaise  (or  light 
Miracle  Whip) 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  tablespoon  Old  Bay  Seasoning 
Butter,  optional 


Cook  bacon.  Saute  onion,  celery  and  bell  pepper  until  tender.  In  a  bowl, 
combine  crab,  cracker  crumbs,  mustard,  mayonnaise,  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  Old  Bay  Seasoning.  Stir  in  sauteed  vegetables  and  crumbled  bacon. 
Place  in  baking  dish  and  dot  with  butter  if  desired.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for 
10  to  15  minutes.  To  make  6  large  crab  cakes,  shape  into  patties  and  roll  in 
additional  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  small  amount  of  extra  virgin  olive  oil. 


Laura  Greer 


Crab  Imperial 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  pound  back  fin  crab  meat 

1  small  onion,  grated 

2  cups  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 


Coarse  bread  crumbs 
Parmesan  cheese 
Melted  butter 
Paprika 


Saute  onions  in  butter.  Mix  with  crab  meat,  mayonnaise,  vinegar  and  lemon 
juice.  Layer  bottom  of  buttered  2-quart  baking  dish  with  untoasted  coarse 
breadcrumbs.  Spread  crab  mixture  over  breadcrumbs.  Place  another  layer 
of  breadcrumbs  on  top.  Sprinkle  Parmesan  cheese  over  all.  Drizzle  melted 
butter  over  top  and  sprinkle  with  paprika.  Cover  loosely  with  aluminum 
foil  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Uncover  and  continue  baking 
for  5  minutes. 

Amelia  Hunter  Roddey 


Seafood  275 


My  mother-in-law,  Shirley 
Ibach,  gave  me  her  recipe  about 
15  years  ago.  I  have  gradually 
changed  her  original  recipe  to 
this  one.  She  absolutely  loves 
it!  I  always  cook  it  for  her  on 
special  occasions,  Mother 's 
Day,  and  her  birthday.  I  am  so 
fortunate  to  call  my  mother-in- 
law  my  friend.  I  am  submitting 
this  recipe  in  honor  of  my 
wonderful  mother-in-law, 
Shirley  Ibach. 

Sandy  Ibach 


Crab  Casserole 


Serves  Ten 


2  cups  cooked  rice 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

V/i  cups  heavy  cream 

4  ounces  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 


1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Vi  teaspoon  Tabasco  sauce 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  pound  crab  meat 


Place  rice  in  bottom  of  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Mix  together  remaining 
ingredients,  adding  crab  last  and  reserving  some  cheese  for  topping. 
Arrange  crab  mixture  over  rice  and  sprinkle  top  with  remaining  cheese. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 


People  will  always  ask  for  this  recipe. 


Virginia  Davis 


Sandy  and  Shirley's  Crab  Casserole 

Serves  Twelve  to  Fourteen 


1  large  package  fresh  mushrooms, 

sliced 
1  green  or  red  pepper,  diced 
1  white  onion,  diced 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
32  ounces  cream  cheese 


3  tablespoons  Italian  seasoning 

3  cups  sour  cream 

36  ounces  "imitation  crab  meat" 

or  equivalent  real  crab  meat 
1  cup  Italian  breadcrumbs 


Saute  pepper,  onion,  and  mushrooms  in  olive  oil.  Place  softened  cream 
cheese  in  bottom  of  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Pour  hot  vegetable  mixture 
over  cream  cheese  and  blend.  Add  Italian  seasoning  and  mix  well.  Add 
sour  cream  and  continue  mixing.  Chop  crab  meat  and  add  to  cream  cheese 
mixture,  mixing  well.  Sprinkle  top  with  Italian  breadcrumbs.  Bake  covered 
at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes,  uncovering  last  5  minutes. 

Sen'e  with  chilled  marinated  asparagus  and  Caesar  salad;  or  sen'e  as  an 
appetizer  with  crackers  at  a  part}'  for  30  to  40  people. 

Sandv  Ibach 


276  Seafood 


This  recipe  is  an  old  one  from 
"The  Breakers  "  at  Myrtle 
Beach,  SC.  We  cook  the  crab 
meat  in  large  cockleshells  we 
collected  on  the  beach.  They 
even  go  in  the  dishwasher! 

Linda  Wallace 


Low  Country  Deviled  Crab 


Serves  Six  to  Seven 


1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  stalks  celery,  minced 
legg 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 
54  teaspoon  salt  or  to  taste 
Pepper  to  taste 
Lemon  pepper  to  taste 


1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

3  dashes  Tabasco  sauce 

Dash  paprika 

%  teaspoon  ground  mace 

Juice  of  'A  lemon 

1  pound  crab  meat 

Buttered  breadcrumbs 


Grease  serving  shells  or  ramekins.  Mix  all  ingredients  except  crab  and 
breadcrumbs.  Fold  in  crab  meat,  being  careful  to  keep  lumps  intact.  Fill 
shells  or  ramekins.  Top  with  buttered  breadcrumbs.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  30  minutes. 

Good  for  luncheons.   Makes  a  pretty  plate  with  hard-boiled  egg,  cold 

asparagus,  a  few  shrimp,  apiece  of  melon,  cocktail  tomato, 

spiced  peach  and  banana  bread. 

Mary  May  Gillespie 

Jeanne's  Crabmeat  Supreme 

Serves  Six 


1  pound  fresh  lump  crab  meat 
Vi  cup  mayonnaise 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion 
1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
parsley 


2  hard-boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped 
1  stalk  celery,  finely  chopped 
V*  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  grated 
Vi  cup  milk 
Cracker  crumbs  and  melted  butter 


Put  all  ingredients  except  milk,  cracker  crumbs  and  melted  butter  into  a 
large  bowl.  Add  milk  and  toss  together  with  a  fork.  Grease  individual 
shells  or  ramekins.  Fill  shells.  Sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs  and  brush 
with  melted  butter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Linda  Wallace 


Seafood  277 


Crawfish  Etouffee 


Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  pound  crawfish  meat 
V*  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  chopped  garlic 

2  onions,  finely  chopped 


2  stalks  celery,  finely  chopped 
1  teaspoon  cornstarch 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
White  rice 


Melt  butter  and  garlic  with  onions  and  celery  over  low  heat  in  skillet  until 
onions  are  transparent.  Whisk  cornstarch  into  mixture.  Simmer  for  about 
10  minutes.  Add  crawfish.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and 
simmer  for  an  additional  5  minutes.  Serve  over  white  rice. 

This  is  the  best  etouffee  recipe  to  come  out  of  Louisiana.  My  father' s  family 

is  from  New  Orleans  and  we  lived  there  many  years,  so  we  have  tried  many 

different  versions.  Add  Tabasco  sauce  if  you  prefer  a  bit  more  punch. 


Betsy  Capps 


Crawfish  or  Shrimp  Etouffee 


Sen'es  Four  to  Six 


Vi  cup  margarine 

V/i  tablespoons  all-purpose  flour 

3A  cup  chopped  celery 

Va  cup  chopped  bell  pepper 

1  j  cup  chopped  onion 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Cayenne  pepper  to  taste 
1  pound  crawfish  tails 
or  1  pound  shrimp, 
peeled  and  deveined 
'4  cup  chopped  green  onions 
lA  cup  chopped  parsley 


In  heavy  pot,  melt  margarine  and  stir  in  flour.  Stir  constantly  over  medium 
heat  until  "roux"  is  the  color  of  peanut  butter.  Do  not  let  it  burn  or  cook  too 
fast.  Be  patient.  Turn  heat  to  low  and  add  chopped  celery,  bell  pepper  and 
onion.  Cook  until  vegetables  are  tender,  about  15  minutes.  Stir  often.  Add 
crawfish  tails  or  shrimp  and  stir.  Cover  pot  and  cook  over  low  heat  for  15 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally  to  make  sure  mixture  does  not  stick  to  bottom 
of  pot.  Season  with  salt  and  peppers.  Add  green  onions  and  parsley  before 
serving.  Serve  with  hot  white  rice. 

Melanie  McGavran 


278  Seafood 


Baked  Flounder 

Serves  Four 

4  flounder  fillets  %  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

2  tablespoons  dry  white  wine  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  '/a  teaspoon  freshly  ground  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  V,  cup  apple  juice 

Vi  cup  whipping  cream 

Lay  fillets  in  a  greased  12x8x2-inch  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  onion,  salt  and 
pepper  over  fillets.  Combine  apple  juice,  wine  and  lemon  juice  and  pour 
over  fish.  Cover  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  fish 
flakes  easily  when  tested  with  fork.  Place  fish  on  a  serving  platter.  Strain 
and  reserve  %  cup  of  liquid.  Melt  butter  in  heavy  saucepan  over  low  heat. 
Add  flour,  stirring  until  smooth.  Cook  1  minute,  stirring  constantly. 
Gradually  add  whipping  cream  and  reserved  2/3-cup  liquid.  Cook  over 
medium  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  is  thickened  and  bubbly. 
Pour  over  fish.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  parsley  before  serving. 

Toccoa  Switzer 

Easy  Baked  Fish  Fillets 

Serves  Four 

VA  pounds  grouper  or  other  Vs  teaspoon  black  pepper 

white  fish  fillets  Vi  cup  fresh  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  fresh  lime  juice  VA  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine, 
1  tablespoon  light  mayonnaise  melted 

%  teaspoon  onion  powder  2  tablespoons  chopped  fresh  parsley 

Place  fish  in  an  1  lx7-inch  baking  dish  coated  with  cooking  spray.  Combine 
lime  juice,  mayonnaise,  onion  powder  and  pepper  in  small  bowl;  spread 
over  fish.  Sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs;  drizzle  with  butter.  Bake  at  425 
degrees  for  20  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes  easily  when  tested  with  a  fork. 
Sprinkle  with  parsley. 

Sylvia  Dalton 

Seafood  279 


I  felt  so  special  in  third  grade 
Sunday  school  when  Mr. 
(Charlie)  Akers  greeted  me: 
"Hello  there.  Bunny,  come  on 
in! "  I  couldn  't  wait  for  music 
time  when  sweet  Mrs.  (Mary) 
Akers  played  the  piano  and 
encouraged  all  of  us  to  join  her 
in  singing  a  hymn.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Akers  made  every  child 
feel  apart  of  the  class,  and  I'll 
never  forget  their  warm,  smiling 
faces.  I  wish  I  had  thanked 
them  for  what  they  gave  me,  but 
I  try  to  cany  a  part  of  them  with 
me  each  time  I  greet  the  third 
graders  in  my  Sunday  school 
class. 

Bunny  Church 


Flounder  Stuffed  with  Shrimp 

AND  ClLANTRO 


Senses  Four 


'A  pound  fresh  shrimp, 

peeled  and  deveined 
4  tablespoons  unsalted  butter, 

divided 
Vi  cup  chopped  onion 
Vi  cup  chopped  celery 
1  teaspoon  chopped  garlic 
Salt  to  taste 
Freshly  ground  pepper  to  taste 


2  tablespoons  finely  grated 

ginger  root 
'A  cup  fresh  fine  breadcrumbs 
Vi  cup  finely  chopped  cilantro 

leaves 
8  skinless  flounder  fillets  (about 

l'/i  pounds  total) 
Vi  cup  dry  white  wine 
V*  cup  heavy  cream 


Chop  shrimp  finely  (should  measure  about  -A  cup).  In  saucepan,  melt  2 
tablespoons  butter.  Add  onion,  celery  and  garlic  and  cook  briefly.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  and  then  stir  in  ginger.  Remove  pan  from  heat  and  scrape 
mixture  into  bowl.  Add  shrimp,  breadcrumbs,  half  the  cilantro,  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Blend  well.  Rub  a  tablespoon  of  butter  over  a  metal  baking  dish 
large  enough  to  hold  four  fillets.  Sprinkle  dish  with  salt  and  pepper: 
arrange  fillets  in  dish,  skinned  side  down.  Spoon  equal  amounts  of  shrimp 
mixture  all  along  the  center  of  each  fillet.  Cover  each  fillet  with  another 
fillet,  skinned  side  down.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Brush  tops  of 
fillets  with  remaining  melted  butter.  Pour  wine  over  all  fillets.  Bake  at  425 
degrees  for  15  minutes.  Pour  cream  over  fillets  and  bake  an  additional  10 
minutes,  basting  occasionally. 

/  use  4  large  fillets,  cut  in  half  lengthwise  to  make  8  fillets. 


Bunny  Church 


280  Seafood 


My  mother-in-law,  Lucy 
McClelland,  was  the  best  cook  I 
have  ever  met,  and  I  was 
privileged  to  learn  some  of  her 
kitchen  secrets.   This  oyster 
dressing  was  a  must  at  Lucy 
McClelland 's  table  at 
Thanksgiving  and  Christmas.  It 
was  a  real  southern  family 
tradition,  cooked  with  love  for 
her  family  bv  a  real  southern 
lady. 

Sue  Zielinski 


The  bedtime  prayer  1  learned  as 
a  child  is  the  one  that  my 
children  have  always  said: 

Jesus,  Tender  Shepherd,  hear  me, 

Bless  thy  little  lamb  tonight. 

Through  the  darkness 

Be  Thou  near  me. 

Keep  me  safe  'til  morning  light. 

It's  a  sweeter,  gentler  prayer  for 
a  child  than  the  one  that 
includes  "If  I  should  die  before 
I  wake.  " 

Pam  Stowe 


Oyster  Dressing 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


1  pint  oysters,  drained 
Crushed  saltine  crackers 
1  cup  butter 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Dash  of  sugar 
Half-and-half 


In  a  6x1 0-inch  baking  dish,  layer  crushed  saltines,  lA  of  the  oysters,  and  lA 
of  the  butter  cut  into  thin  pats.  Repeat  layers  2  times  and  end  with  saltines 
on  top.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  dash  of  sugar.  When  ready  to  bake, 
pour  half-and-half  over  layers  until  baking  dish  is  full.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  about  30  minutes. 

Sue  Zielinski 

Scalloped  Oysters 

Serves  Six 


1  pint  shelled,  undrained  small, 
select  oysters 

l'/i  cups  crushed  Ritz  crackers 
Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 


Salt 

Freshly  ground  pepper 
V*  cup  whipping  cream 
1  tablespoon  dry  sherry 
Dash  Worcestershire  sauce 


Drain  oysters,  reserving  lA  cup  oyster  juice.  Combine  crackers,  lemon 
juice,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Sprinkle  lA  crumb  mixture  in  bottom  of 
greased  3-cup  gratin  dish.  Arrange  Vi  oysters  over  the  crumbs.  Sprinkle 
another  Vi  crumbs  over  oysters,  then  top  with  remaining  oysters.  Whisk 
cream,  reserved  oyster  juice,  sherry  and  Worcestershire  together;  pour  over 
oysters.  Top  with  remaining  crumbs.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes. 

These  are  the  best  scalloped  oysters  we  've  ever  had!  Our  family  has  them 
every  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  and  we  usually  double  the  recipe. 

Pam  Stowe 


Seafood  281 


This  recipe  came  from  a 
Japanese  friend  I  met  in  Boston, 
where  our  husbands  were  in 
school  together  for  one  year. 
She  introduced  us  to  some 
exceptional  food  while  she  was 
in  the  United  States. 

Muffin  Campbell 


Mother's  Scalloped  Oysters 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  Vi  cups  crushed  saltine  crackers 
14  cup  butter,  melted 
24  select  oysters 


%  cup  heavy  cream 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

lA  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 


Crush  saltines  with  a  rolling  pin  to  make  1  Vi  cups  coarse  crumbs.  Add 
butter  to  crumbs  and  stir.  Drain  oysters,  reserving  liquid.  To  %  cup  of 
oyster  liquid,  add  cream,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  In  a  1  -quart  baking  dish, 
layer  lA  of  cracker  crumbs  and  12  oysters.  Pour  lA  of  liquid  mixture  over 
top.  Layer  another  'A  of  cracker  crumbs,  12  oysters  and  remaining  liquid 
mixture.  Top  with  remaining  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  15 
to  20  minutes  or  until  brown.  If  mixture  seems  dry,  add  a  little  more  cream. 

This  is  a  special  dish  we  always  have  at  our  Christmas  dinner. 

Jocelyn  Rose 

Junko's  Marinated  Salmon 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


1  pound  salmon  fillet 

1  to  2  small  onions,  thinly  sliced 

1  to  l'/i  green  peppers,  thinly  sliced 

Vi  to  2A  red  pepper,  thinly  sliced 

1  lemon,  sliced  very  thinly 

Flour 

Stuffed  olives,  thinly  sliced 

Mint  leaves 


Marinade: 
3  tablespoons  vinegar 
3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  teaspoons  salt 
4Vz  teaspoons  sugar 

6  tablespoons  grated  onion 
VA  teaspoons  anchovy  sauce 

3  cloves  garlic,  grated 
Vt  cup  vegetable  oil 


Mix  marinade  ingredients  except  oil.  Once  mixed,  gradually  add  oil  and 
mix  well.  Cut  salmon  fillets  into  bite-sized  pieces  and  dust  with  flour.  Fry 
in  3  inches  of  oil  until  surface  is  crispy.  In  a  large  bowl,  place  fried  salmon 
and  sliced  vegetables.  Pour  marinade  over  all.  Let  stand  for  30  minutes  or 
more,  stirring  occasionally.  Stir  in  lemon  slices.  Serve  garnished  with  mint 
leaves  and  sliced  olives. 

Muffin  Campbell 


282  Seafood 


Tabu  Lodge 
Grilled  Salmon  Steaks 

Serves  Four 

Four  salmon  steaks  '/<.  cup  lemon  juice 

V-i  cup  brown  sugar  '/« cup  white  wine 

Vi  cup  butter 

Mix  together  brown  sugar,  butter,  lemon  juice  and  wine.  Spread  mixture  on 
salmon  steaks.  Grill  to  desired  doneness. 

This  recipe  came  from  a  lodge  in  a  remote  fishing  village  in  Alaska. 

Ann  Thomas 

Salmon  Bake  with  Pecan  Crunch 

Serves  Four 

4  salmon  filets,  4  to  6  ounces  each  lA  cup  bread  crumbs 

V*  teaspoon  salt  2  teaspoons  fresh  parsley,  chopped 

%  teaspoon  pepper  V*  cup  finely  chopped  pecans 

2/4  tablespoons  Dijon  mustard  Parsley  sprigs 

2Vi  tablespoons  butter,  melted  1  lemon,  cut  into  4  wedges 

IVi  tablespoons  honey 

Ask  seafood  butcher  to  cut  the  fresh  salmon  steaks  in  a  pretty  shape. 
Sprinkle  salmon  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  skin  side  down  in  greased 
baking  dish.  Combine  mustard,  butter  and  honey.  Brush  mixture  on  top 
and  sides  of  salmon.  Combine  breadcrumbs,  parsley  and  pecans.  Dip  top 
and  sides  of  salmon  in  crumb  mixture.  Place  steaks  back  in  baking  dish  and 
bake  at  450  degrees  for  1 5  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes  easily  when  tested 
with  fork.  Garnish  with  parsley  sprigs  and  lemon  wedges. 

This  dish  is  really  easy  and  people  always  ask  for  the  recipe. 

Jeanie  Fox 

Seafood  283 


It  was  the  Fall  of  1975,  and  for 
months  my  dining  room  table 
and  kitchen  counters  were 
covered  with  the  information 
Betsy  White  and  I  had  collected 
from  even  committee,  activity 
and  outreach  program  in  our 
church,  defining  its  function  and 
need  for  volunteers.   We  had 
been  asked  by  Alex  McMillan, 
Chairman  of  the  Long  Range 
Planning  Committee,  to  develop 
a  process  for  matching  MPPC's 
needs  with  our  members '  time 
and  talents,  to  initiate  a  system 
for  recording  and  sanctifying 
our  members '  community 
service  outside  the  church,  and 
to  launch  a  yearly  dedication 
and  recognition  of  all  these 
commitments.    When  we  were 
stumped  for  a  catchy  title  for 
our  brochure,  Alex  suggested 
"TNT"  -and  MPPC's  first 
Time  'n  Talents  Campaign  was 
launched  with  a  bang  the 
following  Spring! 

Caroline  McMillan 


Bill  Stagg's  Herb-Barbecued  Shrimp 


Sen'es  Four 


2  pounds  medium  shrimp 

3  to  7  large  cloves  garlic,  minced 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  olive  oil 

3  tablespoons  chopped  fresh 
parsley 


1  tablespoon  dried  basil,  crumbled 
1  teaspoon  coarsely  ground  black 

pepper 
1  tablespoon  catsup 
1  tablespoon  red  wine  vinegar 


Peel  and  devein  shrimp.  Rinse  thoroughly  and  drain  well.  Place  shrimp  in 
a  large,  shallow  glass  baking  dish.  In  a  small  bowl,  mash  garlic  with  salt. 
Stir  in  remaining  ingredients,  mixing  well.  Pour  marinade  over  shrimp;  stir 
well.  Cover  and  refrigerate  for  2  to  3  hours.  Adjust  grill  so  that  rack  is  3 
inches  above  prepared  coals,  or  set  gas  grill  to  medium.  Remove  shrimp 
from  marinade  and  thread  on  skewers.  Grill  shrimp  3  minutes,  basting  with 
marinade.  Turn  and  grill  5  more  minutes,  basting  several  times. 

This  is  one  of  the  many  delicious  recipes  I  received  from  Bill  and  Kemp 
Stagg  when  they  sold  shrimp  at  the  Kings/Morehead  farmers '  market. 


Kathnn  Goode  Sherard 


Garlic  Shrimp 


2  pounds  shrimp,  peeled 
Vi  cup  real  butter 
Va  cup  lemon  juice 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 


Series  Four 

1  tablespoon  soy  sauce 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Cooked  rice 


Melt  butter  in  pan  over  medium  heat.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  except 
shrimp.  Simmer  together.  Add  shrimp  and  cook  until  shrimp  just  turn  pink. 
Serve  over  cooked  rice. 

Me-Me  Brilex 


284  Seafood 


Em  Baesel's  Rosemary  Shrimp 

Branches  of  rosemary  from  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Em  Baesel's  rosemary  bush  Black  pepper  to  taste 

1  pound  large  (14  count)  shrimp  Hot  sauce  to  taste 
%  cup  olive  oil 

Peel  and  devein  shrimp.  Skewer  4  to  5  shrimp  on  each  rosemary  branch. 
Branches  should  be  small  enough  in  diameter  to  hold  the  shrimp  but  not  so 
big  that  they  tear  the  shrimp  apart.  Lay  skewers  in  dish.  Mix  marinade  of 
olive  oil,  lemon  juice,  pepper  and  hot  sauce.  Pour  marinade  over  shrimp. 
Refrigerate  for  Vi  to  1  hour,  turning  skewers  once.  Cook  on  grill  for  5  to  10 
minutes,  until  shrimp  are  pink.  Eat  and  enjoy. 


Bill  Peterson 


This  is  my  wife 's  favorite  recipe. 

Frogmore  Stew 

1  large  onion  %  pound  hot  Polish  sausage,  cut  in 

1  stalk  celery  2-inch  pieces 

2  tablespoons  Old  Bay  Seasonings  lA  pound  unpeeled  shrimp  per 
Sea  salt  to  taste  person 

1  to  V/i  pieces  fresh  corn  per 
person 

In  a  large  pot,  bring  water  (twice  the  amount  per  ingredients)  to  boil.  Add 
onion,  celery  and  seasonings.  Boil  10  minutes.  Add  corn  and  boil  8 
minutes.  Add  sausage  and  boil  5  minutes.  Add  shrimp  and  simmer  2 
minutes.  Do  not  overcook  shrimp.  Remove  from  heat,  cover  and  let  stand 
4  to  5  minutes.  Serve  on  a  large  platter  with  saltine  crackers  and  cocktail 
sauce  on  the  side. 

Great  for  a  crowd!  Frogmore  is  the  "capital"  of  St.  Helena,  SC,  an  island 
that  still  boasts  of  buried  treasure  of  Blackbeard  and  his  fellow  buccaneers. 

Andrew  and  Sherri  Davies 
Seafood  285 


Family  Blessing 

This  blessing  has  been  in  the 
Chapman  family  for  at  least 
three  generations  (John  E. 
Chapman,  founding  member  of 
MPPC,  Robert  W.  "Bob" 
Chapman  and  Todd  M. 
Chapman)  and  is  our  favorite: 

Kind  Father,  accept  our  thanks  for 
these  and  all  of  our  many  blessings. 
Pardon  our  sins  and  save  us  for 
Christ's  sake,  Amen. 

Stacey  and  Todd  Chapman 


Feta  Shrimp  Pizza 


Yields  One  12-Inch  Pizza 


One  12-inch  homemade  pizza 

crust 
8  ounces  Mozzarella  cheese,  grated 
1  pound  Roma  tomatoes,  thinly 

sliced 
8  ounces  Feta  cheese,  crumbled 
16  black  olives,  pitted  and  sliced 


Vi  cup  green  onion,  white  and  light 

green  parts,  chopped 
2  tablespoons  fresh  oregano, 

chopped  or  2  teaspoons  dried 
V2  pound  large  shrimp,  cooked  and 

peeled 


Place  pizza  crust  on  pizza  stone  or  in  pizza  pan.  Sprinkle  Mozzarella 
cheese  over  unbaked  crust.  Arrange  tomato  slices  on  top  of  cheese,  then 
layer  Feta  cheese,  olives,  green  onion  and  oregano.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for 
15  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  arrange  shrimp  on  top  of  pizza.  Return 
to  oven  and  bake  10  to  15  minutes  longer  or  until  crust  is  golden  brown. 


Stacey  Chapman 


Shrimp  Susan 


Serves  Eight 


1  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

1  cup  chopped  celery 

1 ;  pound  mushrooms 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  j  cup  mayonnaise 

Vi  cup  white  wine 


1  teaspoon  curry  powder 
1  box  Uncle  Ben's  wild  rice, 

cooked 
I1/:  pounds  shrimp,  cooked  and 

cleaned 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Saute  green  pepper,  onion  and  celery.  Saute  mushrooms.  Combine  with 
remaining  ingredients  and  pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  45  minutes. 


Best  if  made  a  day  ahead. 


Mary  Martin 


286  Seafood 


New  Orleans  Jambalaya 


Sen>es  Six 


2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 
2  tablespoons  all-purpose  flour 
1  medium  onion,  finch  chopped 
1  clove  garlic,  crushed 
1  green  pepper,  seeded  and 

finely  chopped 
1  (14-oz)  can  peeled  whole 

tomatoes,  undrained 
4  cups  chicken  broth 
V*  teaspoon  ground  ginger 
Pinch  of  allspice 


1  teaspoon  chopped  fresh  or 

'A  teaspoon  dried  thyme 
%  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
Dash  of  hot  pepper  sauce 
Salt  to  taste 
Vi  cup  uncooked  long  grain  rice 

2  pounds  raw  shrimp,  peeled  and 

deveined 
2  green  onions,  chopped  for 
garnish,  optional 


In  a  heavy  saucepan  or  Dutch  oven,  melt  butter  and  add  flour.  Stir  to  blend 
and  cook  over  low  heat  until  light  brown.  Add  onion,  garlic  and  pepper  and 
cook  until  soft.  Add  tomatoes  and  their  juice,  breaking  up  tomatoes  with  a 
fork  or  potato  masher.  Add  chicken  broth  and  mix  well.  Add  ginger, 
allspice,  thyme,  cayenne  pepper,  hot  sauce  and  salt.  Bring  to  boil  and  boil 
rapidly  for  about  2  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  rice,  stir  well  and 
cover  pot.  Cook  for  1 5  to  20  minutes  or  until  rice  is  tender  and  has 
absorbed  most  of  the  liquid.  During  last  10  minutes  of  cooking,  add 
shrimp.  Cook  until  shrimp  are  pink  and  curled.  Adjust  seasonings  if 
necessary  and  sprinkle  with  green  onions,  if  desired,  before  serving. 


Nancv  Ellis 


Seafood  287 


The  most  memorable  event  I 
recall  was  the  hosting  of  the 
General  Assembly  of  the  PCUS 
by  Queens  College  and  Myers 
Park  Presbyterian  Church.  A  If 
Canon,  president  of  Queens, 
and  Tom  Belk  ofMPPC  served 
as  co-chairs  of  the  event.  Alf 
thought  it  would  be  nice  to 
invite  the  Assembly  to  walk 
down  to  the  President 's  house 
for  a  reception  at  the  close  of 
one  of  the  afternoon  sessions  at 
the  E.  H.  Little  Fine  Arts 
Center,  so  we  invited  all  the 
delegates  to  an  Open  House.  I 
baked  cookies  and  cakes,  and  so 
did  many  of  my  friends  at 
MPPC    With  the  possibility  of 
1,000  guests,  we  were  proud  to 
be  able  to  serve  all  homemade 
goodies  at  a  reception  that  was 
so  well  received. 

Beth'  Canon 


May's  Shrimp  Casserole 


Semes  Six  to  Eight 


Vi  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

'A  cup  onion 

'A  cup  celery 

'A  cup  mayonnaise 

Vt  cup  sherry 


1  small  can  green  peas 
1  cup  raw  rice,  cooked 
3  pounds  shrimp,  cooked  and 

cleaned 
Breadcrumbs 


Saute  green  pepper,  onion  and  celery  in  butter.  Mix  with  remaining 
ingredients  and  place  in  2 '/--quart  baking  dish.  Top  with  buttered 
breadcrumbs  and  bake  uncovered  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Amelia  Hunter  Roddey 

Shrimp  and  Cheese  Casserole 


Senses  Six  to  Ten 


6  slices  white  bread 

'A  pound  Old  English  cheese 

(usually  comes  sliced) 
1  pound  prepared  shrimp  (ready 

to  eat) 


%  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

3  eggs,  beaten 

Vi  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Salt  to  taste 

1  pint  milk 


Break  bread  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  quarter.  Break  cheese  into  bite- 
size  pieces.  Arrange  shrimp,  bread  and  cheese  in  several  layers  in  greased 
baking  dish.  Pour  butter  or  margarine  over  shrimp  mixture.  Beat  eggs  and 
add  mustard  and  salt.  Add  milk  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  shrimp.  Cover 
and  let  stand  in  refrigerator  a  minimum  of  3  hours,  preferably  overnight. 
Bake,  covered,  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  If  you  slightly  increase  the 
amount  of  shrimp,  you  improve  the  dish,  although  it  is  fine  as  is.  When 
doubling  the  recipe,  use  3  pounds  of  shrimp. 

Betty  Canon 


288   Seafood 


Among  my  memories  of  the  22 
years  Jim  and  I  were  members 
of  MPPC  are  several  related  to 
Randy  Taylor's  election, 
installation  and  ser\ice  as 
PCUSA  General  Assembly 
Moderator.  I  attended  the  1981 
General  Assembly  in  Houston 
as  a  Mecklenburg  Presbytery 
commissioner  and  obseived  the 
high  regard  of  the  larger  church 
for  Randy,  so  it  was  no  surprise 
two  years  later  that  he  was  the 
leading  moderator  candidate. 
The  Myers  Park  congregation 
began  to  plan  to  be  present  for 
his  election  and  installation  at 
the  1983  General  Assembly  in 
Atlanta.   We  made  reservations 
at  the  Omni  and  chartered  a  bus 
for  the  40-plus  members  who 
chose  to  travel  together.  After 
the  election  was  certain  and 
Randy  and  Arline  were  brought 
back  to  the  convention  hall  for 
the  announcement  and  the 
installation  senice,  the  hall 
erupted  into  applause,  whistles, 
whoops  and  shouts.  Normally 
reserved  Presbyterians  stood  on 
chairs  and  celebrated  with 
absolute  joy— a  moment  I  will 
never  forget.   We  did  not  see 
Randy  and  Arline  much  that 
year  as  they  traveled  throughout 
the  world  representing  the 
Presbyterian  Church,  but  I  will 
always  be  grateful  that  we  were 
able  to  give  the  gift  of  our 
pastor  to  the  denomination. 

Barbara  Cannon 


Shrimp  and  Grits 


Senes  Foul- 


Grits: 
4  Vi  cups  water 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  grits 

%  cup  grated  sharp  Cheddar 
cheese 

Shrimp: 

6  slices  bacon 
Vegetable  oil 


1  pound  fresh  shrimp,  peeled 

2  cups  sliced  fresh  mushrooms 
1  cup  finely  sliced  green  onions 
1  large  clove  garlic,  minced 

1  cup  finely  chopped  red  pepper 
4  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Dash  of  Tabasco 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  chopped  fresh 
parsley 


In  a  large  saucepan,  bring  AVi  cups  water  and  salt  to  a  boil.  Add  grits,  stir 
and  reduce  heat.  Simmer  about  30  minutes,  stirring  frequently,  until 
thickened.  Add  cheese  and  stir  until  melted. 

Dice  bacon.  Saute  lightly  in  skillet  (not  crisp).  Add  enough  vegetable  oil  to 
make  a  thin  layer  in  skillet.  When  oil  and  bacon  are  hot,  add  shrimp, 
turning  quickly  until  pink.  Add  mushrooms  and  saute  about  4  minutes. 
Add  onions,  garlic  and  red  pepper.  Season  with  lemon  juice.  Tabasco,  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  immediately  over  grits. 

Elizabeth  Pitts 


Seafood  289 


My  favorite  MPPC  memory  is 
Randy  Taylor 's  Thursday 
morning  Bible  Study. 

Betfr  Cowden 


Shrimp,  Asparagus  and  Artichoke 
Casserole 


Serves  Six 


1  pound  asparagus,  steamed  and 
drained,  or  2  (lOVi-oz)  cans 
asparagus  tips,  drained 

1  (14-oz)  can  artichoke  hearts, 
drained  and  quartered 

l'/i  pounds  shrimp,  cooked  and 
cleaned 

'A  pound  mushrooms  or  1  (4-oz) 
can  mushrooms,  drained 

6/4  tablespoons  butter,  divided 


4'/2  tablespoons  flour 

V*  cup  whipping  cream 

3A  cup  milk 

%  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Vs  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

'A  cup  dry  sherry,  optional 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

lA  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Paprika 


Arrange  asparagus,  artichokes  and  shrimp  in  2-quart  baking  dish  in  order 
given.  Lightly  saute  mushrooms  in  2  tablespoons  butter;  arrange  over 
shrimp.  Melt  remaining  41/:  tablespoons  butter  in  saucepan.  Stir  in  flour 
and  cook  2  minutes.  Add  cream  and  milk,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick 
and  smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  sherry  and  Worcestershire. 
Pour  over  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  cheese  and  paprika.  (May  do  ahead  and 
refrigerate  at  this  point.  Let  stand  at  room  temperature  30  minutes  before 
continuing.)  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

To  economize,  substitute  boneless,  cooked  chicken  for  shrimp. 

Rita  Vandiver 


290  Seafood 


When  I  was  ten  years  old.  my 
mother  (Rooney  Robison)  and  I 
were  at  church  on  Eagle  Scout 
Sunday.  I  was  intrigued  by  the 
pinning  ceremony,  and  I 
assumed  my  mother  was.  too. 
When  Dr.  Taylor  asked  all  the 
Eagle  Scouts  to  stand.  I  watched 
in  horror  as  my  mother  leapt  to 
her  feet  —  the  ready 
Presbyterian!  When  she  saw 
she  was  standing  among  only 
males  (Bill  Lee  included),  she 
sat  down. ...quite  tickled,  I  know. 
Needless  to  say,  after  church 
Dr.  Taylor  inquired  as  to  which 
troop  hers  was. 

Alan'  Yorke  Oates 


Shrimp  Florentine 


Serves  Sixteen  to  Twenty 


4  (10-oz)  packages  chopped 
spinach,  thawed  and  drained 

2  pounds  shrimp,  cooked  and 
cleaned 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

54  cup  flour 

2  cups  milk 


1  cup  half-and-half 

1  cup  dry  white  wine 

'A  cup  chopped  scallions 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Paprika 

4  cups  grated  cheddar  cheese 


Squeeze  excess  water  from  spinach.  Spread  spinach  on  bottom  of  two 
9x1 3-inch  baking  dishes.  Arrange  1  pound  of  shrimp  on  top  of  spinach  in 
each  dish.  Melt  butter  and  blend  in  flour.  Gradually  add  milk  and  half-and- 
half,  stirring  until  smooth.  Blend  in  wine  and  scallions,  stirring  until  sauce 
bubbles  and  thickens.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  enough  paprika  to 
make  sauce  a  rosy  color.  Pour  sauce  over  shrimp  and  sprinkle  with  cheese. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  30  minutes  or  until  bubbly. 

Doris  Peterson 

Shrimp  and  Crab  Casserole 

Seizes  Four  to  Six 


1  pound  shrimp,  cooked  and 

peeled 
1  pound  crabmeat 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

Yi  cup  Durkee's  dressing 

Buttered  breadcrumbs 


Mix  together  all  ingredients  except  breadcrumbs.  Place  in  baking  dish  and 
top  with  breadcrumbs.  Bake  at  350  degrees  20  to  25  minutes  until  bubbly. 

Claudia  Belk 


Seafood  291 


Pita  Bread 
Toast  Points 

1  tablespoon  dill 

1/4  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

2  pieces  pita  bread,  sliced 

in  half  and  quartered 

Mix  dill  and  butter  together. 
Spread  butter  mixture  over 
pita  bread  pieces.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  for  about  20 
minutes,  until  bread  is  golden 
brown  and  crisp.  Serve  with 
Shrimp  with  Feta. 

Anne  McPhail 


Shrimp  with  Feta  Cheese 


1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  medium  yellow  onion,  chopped 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 
Vi  cup  dry  white  wine 


1  (28-oz)  can  tomatoes, 
drained  and  chopped 
VA  to  3  pounds  shrimp,  peeled 
8  ounces  Feta  cheese 


Saute  onions  and  garlic  in  olive  oil  over  medium  heat  for  5  minutes.  Add 
wine  and  tomatoes  and  simmer  for  10  to  15  minutes.  Place  tomato  mixture 
in  glass  baking  dish.  Add  shrimp  and  Feta  cheese.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
15  minutes.  Serve  over  yellow  rice  with  Pita  Bread  Toast  Points. 

Anne  McPhail 

Shrimp  with  Feta  Cheese  Over  Pasta 


Ser\'es  Four 


6  tablespoons  olive  oil,  divided 
l'/2  teaspoons  chopped  garlic 
2  cups  cubed  tomatoes 
l/4  cup  dry  white  wine 
%  cup  chopped  fresh  basil 
1  teaspoon  dried  oregano 


Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  pound  uncooked  shrimp 
'A  teaspoon  red  pepper  flakes 
Vt  pound  Feta  cheese 
Vi  pound  dried  pasta  ,  preferably 
spaghetti  or  angel  hair 


Saute  garlic  in  '/•  of  the  olive  oil  in  skillet.  Add  tomatoes  and  cook  until 
soft.  Add  wine,  basil,  oregano,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  over  medium  heat  1 0 
to  15  minutes.  Peel  shrimp.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  remaining 
olive  oil  in  separate  skillet.  Cook  shrimp  quickly  over  medium  heat  until 
pink.  Sprinkle  shrimp  with  red  pepper  flakes.  Place  shrimp  and  juices  in 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  crumbled  Feta  cheese.  Pour  tomato  mixture  on 
top.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Serve  over  hot  cooked  pasta. 

Mehane  Archer 


292  Seafood 


At  one  of  the  earlier  Arts 
Festivals,  I  was  asked  to  clog. 
The  event  was  a  talent  show,  of 
sorts,  with  members  of  various 
ages.  I  was  the  first  "talent,  " 
and  as  the  music  began,  my  feet 
started  to  do  their  shuffles.  But 
after  one  or  two  shuffles  on  the 
slick  wooden  floor,  my  feet  went 
straight  out  in  front  of  me, 
causing  me  to  land  on  my 
bottom  with  my  petticoats  up  to 
my  waist.  Surprised  and 
embarrassed  to  be  on  the  floor 
like  that,  I  got  up  and  continued. 
My  husband  was  filming  and  got 
the  act  on  tape  for  posterity  but 
NOT  for  Funniest  Home  Videos, 
which  my  children  would  have 
liked. 

Lou  Self 


Shrimp  and  Crab  a  la  Rice 

Serves  Eight 


1  pound  crab  meat 

1  pound  shrimp,  cooked  and 

cleaned 
Vi  green  pepper,  finely  chopped 
Vi  cup  onion,  finely  chopped 
Vi  (4-oz)  jar  chopped  pimento 
1  cup  celery,  finely  chopped 


1  (4-oz)  can  mushrooms 
1  cup  mayonnaise 
lA  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  half-and-half 
1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
¥>  cup  rice,  cooked  according  to 
package  directions 


Combine  crab,  shrimp,  green  pepper,  onion,  pimento,  celery  and 
mushrooms.  Mix  mayonnaise,  salt,  half-and-half  and  Worcestershire  sauce 
together.  Combine  with  seafood  mixture  and  cooked  rice.  Pour  into 
greased  2-quart  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  top  with  dry  breadcrumbs.  Bake  at 
375  degrees  for  35  minutes. 

Good  for  lunch  with  a  congealed  fruit  salad,  or  for  dinner  with 
a  spinach  salad. 

Lou  Self 

Tuna  Casserole 

Serves  Four  to  Six 


2  to  3  medium  potatoes,  sliced 
1  medium  onion,  sliced 
1  (16-oz)  can  small  green  peas, 
drained 


1  (6V2-0Z)  can  solid  pack  white  tuna 
1  (lOV^-oz)  can  cream  of 

mushroom  soup 
Grated  cheese 


In  a  2-quart  baking  dish,  layer  half  of  the  potato  slices,  onion  slices,  green 
peas,  tuna,  soup,  and  cheese.  Repeat  layers.  Cover  and  bake  at  350  degrees 
for  P/2  hours,  or  until  potatoes  are  soft. 

Jean  Graeber 


Seafood  293 


Japanese 

Horseradish 

Butter 

Serx'es  Four 

Vi  pound  butter 
2  tablespoons  grated  fresh 
or  prepared  ginger 

1  Vi  tablespoons  low  sodium 

soy  sauce 

2  tablespoons  grated  fresh 

or  prepared  horseradish 

Heat  all  ingredients  in  a 
saucepan.  Use  to  baste  tuna 
or  other  meaty  fish  while 
grilling.  Serve  extra  on  side 
for  dipping. 

Sunny  Lambeth  Allen 


Easy  Seafood  Paella 


3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Vi  pound  shrimp,  peeled  and 

deveined 
Vi  pound  sea  scallops,  halved 

if  large 
Vi  pound  boneless,  skinless 

chicken  breast,  cut  in  1-inch 

cubes 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

2  to  3  teaspoons  minced  garlic 

1  (14V2-oz)  can  chopped  tomatoes, 
undrained 


Va  teaspoon  saffron  threads 
Vi  teaspoon  paprika 
2  to  3  dashes  Tabasco 
1  cup  Arborio  rice  (medium 

grain  white) 
1  (13%-oz)  can  low-sodium 

chicken  broth,  mixed  with 

Va  cup  water 
1  (4-oz)  jar  pimientos,  drained 
1  cup  frozen  green  peas 
Vi  teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper 


Heat  1  teaspoon  olive  oil  in  large  non-stick  skillet  over  medium  heat.  Add 
shrimp  and  saute  1  to  2  minutes  until  pink.  Remove  to  a  bowl.  Add 
another  teaspoon  of  olive  oil  to  skillet;  saute  scallops  1  to  2  minutes  until 
lightly  browned;  remove  to  bowl.  Add  remaining  olive  oil;  saute  chicken 
until  no  longer  pink;  remove  to  bowl.  Add  onion  and  garlic  to  skillet;  cook 
on  low  heat  6  to  8  minutes  until  onion  is  soft.  Stir  in  tomatoes,  saffron, 
paprika  and  Tabasco;  simmer  3  minutes.  Stir  in  rice  and  add  broth  mixture. 
Bring  to  boil;  cover  and  reduce  heat  and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Stir  in 
shrimp,  scallops,  chicken,  pimientos  and  frozen  peas.  Cover  tightly  and 
simmer  10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  until  rice  is  tender  and  chicken  is 
fully  cooked.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Frances  Query 


294  Seafood 


Paella 


VA  tablespoons  olive  oil 

8  boneless  chicken  breast  halves 

2  cups  chopped  onion 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

3  cloves  garlic,  minced 

1  (28-oz)  can  tomatoes  with  juice 
VA  cups  dry  white  wine 

2  cups  chicken  broth 
1/4  teaspoons  thyme 


1/4  teaspoons  oregano 

Cajun  seasoning  to  taste 

2  cups  yellow  rice 

VA  pounds  medium  shrimp,  peeled 

1  cup  frozen  peas,  thawed 

Optional  Ingredients: 
Clams 
Andouille  sausage 


Cut  chicken  into  bite-sized  pieces.  Heat  oil  in  large  skillet  over  medium 
heat.  Add  chicken  and  saute  until  brown,  about  8  to  10  minutes.  Add 
onion,  bell  peppers  and  garlic  and  saute  5  minutes.  Add  tomatoes  and  juice, 
wine,  chicken  broth  and  spices.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Place  the  mixture  as  well  as 
the  rice  in  2-quart  baking  dish  or  Paella  dish  and  bake  in  the  oven  at  375  for 
30  minutes  or  until  the  moisture  is  almost  absorbed.  Add  the  shrimp,  clams, 
sausage  and  peas  during  the  last  10  minutes  of  cooking.  Season  with  Cajun 
seasoning.  Serve  immediately. 

Anne  McPhail 

Seafood  Casserole 

Serves  Four  to  Six 
1  medium  green  pepper,  chopped         lA  teaspoon  salt 


1  medium  onion,  chopped 

1  small  can  water  chestnuts 

Vi  pound  fresh,  cooked  crab  meat 

supreme,  chopped 
1  pound  cooked  shrimp 


%  to  V*  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  buttered  croutons 


Mix  all  ingredients  except  buttered  croutons  in  a  greased  baking  dish.  Place 
croutons  on  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Diane  Barrus 


Seafood  295 


Grilled  Tuna 
Kabobs 

Serves  Four 

Vi  cup  mayonnaise 
1  tablespoon  lime  juice 
1  clove  garlic,  pressed 
Vi  teaspoon  ground  red 

pepper 
Vi  teaspoon  cumin 
4  tuna  steaks,  sliced  in  about 

1-inch  thick  cubes 
Cherry  tomatoes 
Zucchini,  sliced  1  inch  thick 

Combine  first  5  ingredients  to 
make  grilling  sauce. 
Alternate  tuna  and  vegetables 
on  skewers.  Brush  sauce  on 
steaks.  Grill,  covered  with 
foil,  over  medium  coals  for 
about  5  minutes  per  side  for 
medium-cooked  tuna. 

Elizabeth  Pitts 


Seafood  Casserole 

Ser\'es  Eight  to  Twelve 


Vi  cup  butter 


3A  cup  chopped  onion 

3A  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1  (6-oz)  can  chopped  mushrooms, 
with  liquid 

%  cup  all-purpose  flour 

2  teaspoons  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 


3'/2  cups  milk 


Vi  cup  dry  sherry 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

lA  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  pound  crab  meat 

1  pound  shrimp,  shelled 

1  tablespoon  parsley 

1  cup  grated  sharp  cheese 


Melt  butter.  Add  onion,  green  pepper,  mushrooms  and  liquid.  Cook  until 
soft.  Blend  in  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Gradually  stir  in  milk,  then  sherry. 
Cook  until  thickened.  Add  lemon  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add 
seafoods.  Pour  into  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  paprika.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes,  until  bubbly. 

Marge  McCarty 

JULIEN'STUNA 

Sen'es  Four 


Marinade: 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
Vi  cup  soy  sauce 
Juice  from  1  lime 


Vi  to  1  teaspoon  garlic  and  oil 
2  scullions,  thinly  sliced 
1  heaping  teaspoon  cornstarch 
4  tuna  steaks 


Whip  and  blend  together  ingredients  for  marinade.  Marinate  tuna  for  45 
minutes.  Bake  fish  at  450  degrees  for  20  minutes  in  marinade.  Remove 
tuna  from  marinade  and  add  cornstarch  and  a  little  water.  Pour  over  tuna 
and  serve. 

Delicious!  I  received  this  recipe  from  a  friend  who  was  a  true  fisherman. 
He  was  a  chef  during  his  Navy  career  and  was  a  superior  cook. 

Katie  Barber 


296  Seafood 


Easter  Sunda\ 


297 


IVlemories  of  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church  include  people  who  extended 
themselves  to  welcome  Jane  and  me,  who  faced  crises  in  a  manner  that 
deepened  my  faith,  whose  dedication  to  the  church 's  ministry  increased  my 
own  sense  of  the  importance  of  God's  People;  worship  experiences,  music 
programs,  social  events,  staff  fellowship  and  commitment.  I  like  to  think  of 
MPPC  as  a  corporate  individual  who  made  a  tremendous  impact  on  my  life.  I 
came  to  Charlotte  in  1983  with  concerns  about  the  viability  of  a  large  church. 
Could  a  church  of  3,000  members  have  a  warm,  "homey"  feeling?  Could  it 
have  the  time  and  interest  to  move  outside  the  Myers  Park  circle  and  give  in 
ministry  and  Christian  concern  to  the  ghettos  of  Charlotte  and  the  needs  of 
third  world  countries?  Would  the  stewardship  emphasis  center  on  building  a 
bigger  structure  for  the  congregation  to  the  neglect  of  the  church 's  ministry  to 
the  world?  In  times  of  personal  crises  would  a  family  or  an  individual  be 
overlooked?  Of  great  importance  to  me  is  the  way  in  which  our  five  years 
together  erased  all  the  concerns  I  had  about  the  abilit)'  of  a  large 
congregation  to  be  a  true  "Household  of  God"! 

Bill  McLean 


Singles  Ministry  Halloween  Party  for  Dalton  Village  C 


Apple  Cake 


3  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  oil 

4  eggs 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 


Juice  of  1  orange 

3  large  apples,  pared  and  sliced 

Topping: 

Vz  cup  sugar 

Cinnamon 


Combine  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar,  oil,  eggs,  vanilla  and  orange  juice. 
Mix  well.  Make  topping  by  combining  sugar  and  enough  cinnamon  to 
make  mixture  a  nice  brown  color;  set  aside.  Pour  half  of  batter  into  greased 
tube  pan.  Layer  half  of  pared  apples  on  top  of  batter  and  sprinkle  half  of 
topping  on  apples.  Add  remaining  batter,  apples  and  topping.  Bake  at  450 
degrees  for  15  minutes;  reduce  temperature  to  350  degrees  and  continue  to 
bake  for  1  hour.  Cool  cake,  loosen  from  tube  pan  and  turn  out  cake.  Cake 
will  keep  indefinitely  wrapped  in  foil  and  stored  in  freezer. 

The  orange  juice  needs  to  be  from  a  "juicy"  orange  so  batter  will  have  the 
consistency  to  be  poured. 

Dixie  Denney 

Fresh  Apple  Cake 


Vi  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  cups  flour 

Va  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 


'A  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  cups  raisins 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  diced  apples 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  flour,  cinnamon, 
soda,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Add  raisins,  nuts,  and  apples.  Batter  will  be 
thick.  Put  batter  in  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  45  minutes. 
Serve  with  Cool  Whip. 

Brxnne  Miles 


300  Desserts 


In  May  1985  we  came  to 
Charlotte  (Ray's first  time  in 
North  Carolina)  to  be 
interviewed  by  the  MPPC 
committee  seeking  an  interim 
minister.  Ray  confessed  that  he 
didn  't  relish  Hying  to  fill  Randy 
Taylor's  shoes,  but  he  was  given 
the  invitation.  At  the  same  time, 
he  had  in  his  pocket  a  document 
from  the  church  in  Birmingham, 
Michigan,  inviting  him  to  be 
their  interim.   We  had  to  choose 
between  familiar  territory  and 
the  leap  of  faith  into  the 
"unknown  "  South.   We  decided 
to  rent  a  car  and  wander 
through  North  Carolina,  putting 
up  for  a  night  in  the  mountains. 
The  restaurant  we  chose  was 
crowded  and  we  started  to  back 
away,  but  a  woman  with  a 
delicious  accent  said,  "Now  you 
folks  come  on  in.   There  is  a 
place  here  for  you.  "  Our  hearts 
melted!  As  we  were  leaving 
after  dinner,  the  same  lady 
called  out  to  us,  "Now  you  all 
come  on  back,  you  hear?  "  Two 
Yankees  delighted  in  the 
graciousness.  Ray  said,  "Do 
you  think  that  was  the  voice  of 
God?"  1  replied,  "Could be, 
and  note  She's  also  black!" 
Never  for  a  single  second  have 
we  regretted  the  choice  made 
that  evening  to  cast  our  lot  with 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church. 

Martha  Kielv 


Apple  Cake 


VA  cups  vegetable  oil 

2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
3  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
1  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  cups  apples,  peeled  and  chopped 

Glaze: 

Vi  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

Vi  cup  milk 


Mix  oil  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  vanilla  to  sugar  mixture. 
Sift  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt  together.  Stir  in  cinnamon  to  dry 
ingredients.  Combine  sugar  mixture  with  flour  mixture  and  stir.  Add 
apples.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  \Vi 
hours.  Cool  and  glaze  cake. 

Glaze:  Combine  butter,  brown  sugar  and  milk  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  boil. 
Set  aside  to  cool.  Pour  over  finished  cake. 


Share  this  with  a  neighbor  or  friend! 


Grace  Toler 


Desserts  301 


Apple  Cake 
Glaze 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  butter 
W  cup  milk 

Combine  ingredients  in 
saucepan  and  mix  well. 
Cook  3  minutes  over  medium 
heat.  Pour  over  hot  cake. 

Kim  Harrison 
Rachel  MacBain 


Apple  Nut  Cake 


Yields  One  1  l.xl 4-inch  Cake 


VA  cups  vegetable  oil 

2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs 

3  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  cups  peeled,  diced  raw  apple 

1  cup  pecan  pieces 


Mix  together  oil,  sugar  and  eggs.  Mix  in  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  batter 
into  large  rectangular  pan  at  least  2  inches  deep.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1 
hour.  Prepare  Apple  Cake  Glaze.  Remove  from  oven  and  top  with  glaze 
while  cake  is  still  hot.  Cool.  Cut  in  squares  to  serve. 

I  got  this  recipe  from  my  mother.  She  always  made  this  cake  at 

Thanksgiving  and/or  Christmas.  Both,  if  we  were  lucky!  This  cake  will 

forever  be  associated  with  the  holidays  in  my  mind,  and  now  I  have  started 

making  it  for  my  family.    It  is  a  large,  very  moist  cake.  Delicious! 


Rachel  MacBain 


•f1      •$•      ^      *£• 


Apple  Dapple  Cake 


Seires  Twelve  to  Fifteen 


VA  cups  vegetable  oil 

2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs,  beaten 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
2VS  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
VA  teaspoons  cinnamon  (optional) 
Vz  teaspoon  nutmeg  (optional) 
3  cups  finely  chopped  raw  apples 
VA  cups  chopped  pecans  or 
Vi  cup  chopped  black  walnuts 


Combine  oil,  sugar,  eggs  and  vanilla  and  mix  well.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
together  and  add  to  egg  mixture.  Fold  in  apples  and  nuts.  Pour  into  greased 
and  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  Prepare  Apple  Cake 
Glaze.  Pour  hot  glaze  over  cake  while  cake  is  still  hot.  Cool  before 
removing  from  pan. 

This  is  yummy! 

Kim  Harrison 


302   Desserts 


Our  son  John  learned  to  walk 
while  at  Montreal  in  October 
1986.   The  night  before  the 
baptism  of  John  (4  months)  and 
Brian  (age  5),  an  iron  fell  on 
Brian's  foot.  Bill  McLean  did 
the  baptism  that  Sunday,  and  it 
was  his  habit  to  carry  the 
younger  child  and  have  the 
older  one  walk  down  the  aisle 
with  him-but  not  lean  on  him  as 
heavily  as  Brian  did  that 
Sunday. 

Tom  and  Donnie  Dougherty 


Blackberry  Jam  Cake 


%  cup  butter 
V/i  cups  sugar 
4  eggs,  separated 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
%  cup  buttermilk 

2  heaping  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  blackberry  jam,  with  seeds 


Filling: 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs,  lightly  beaten 
1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  egg  yolks,  mixing  thoroughly. 
Dissolve  baking  soda  in  buttermilk.  Sift  flour:  measure  and  sift  again.  Add 
spices.  Add  flour  mixture  alternately  with  buttermilk  mixture.  Lightly  stir 
in  jam;  do  not  beat.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  batter  into  3 
greased  and  floured  10-inch  layer  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20 
minutes.  Turn  out  on  wire  racks  to  cool. 

Filling:  Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  other  ingredients  and 
cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens  and  coats  spoon.  Let  cool 
completely  before  spreading  between  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

This  was  my  grandmother,  Mrs.  A.  C.  Lineberger  's,  recipe. 

My  mother,  Frances  McDonald,  used  to  make  it  often. 

It  was  always  a  family  favorite. 

Martha  Robinson 


Desserts  303 


On  a  brilliant  October  afternon 
in  1987,  I  waited  on  the  Oxford- 
Providence  lawn  ofMPPC  with 
Will.  17.  andChele,  15.  for 
Walt,  10.  to  come  from  Cub 
Scouts.  As  Chele  hopped  across 
the  sidewalk,  she  said,  "Here 
comes  my  preacher! "  My  back 
was  turned  to  the  street,  and  I 
mentally  pictured  Tim  Croft  or 
Bill  McLean  walking  across  the 
yard.  I  will  forever  remember 
the  gratitude  I  felt  when  I 
realized  that  "my  preacher" 
was  The  Rev.  Jennifer  Burns 
and  that  Chele,  at  her  young 
age,  would  never  be  limited  to  a 
concept  of  only  male  ministers. 
Thanks  be  to  God! 

Lyn  Sutterlin 


Grandmother  Russell's 
Black  Walnut  Cake 


Vi  cup  butter 
2  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

1  box  chopped  dates 

2  teaspoons  baking  soda 
2  cups  boiling  water 

2%  cups  all-purpose  flour 


1  cup  black  walnuts 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Glaze: 
Vx  cup  butter 
2  cups  brown  sugar 
Vi  cup  evaporated  milk 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well.  Place  dates  and  soda  in  a 
separate  bowl,  pour  the  boiling  water  over  them,  and  set  aside  for  a  few 
minutes.  Add  flour  and  date  mixture  alternately  to  butter  mixture.  Mix 
well.  Add  black  walnuts  and  vanilla.  This  makes  a  thin  batter.  Pour  into  2 
or  3  greased  and  floured  cake  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30 
minutes. 

Glaze:  Boil  butter,  brown  sugar  and  evaporated  milk  for  3  to  5  minutes. 
Spread  glaze  between  cake  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

A  delicious  cake  at  Christinas  time.   This  has  been  sen'ed  in  my  family  for 
many,  many  years. 

Ginny  Shaw 


304   Desserts 


Nanny's  Caramel  Cake 


1  cup  butter,  softened 

2  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
4  eggs 

8  ounces  sour  cream 
W  cup  milk 
2%  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
''2  teaspoon  salt 


Caramel  Icing: 
Vi  cup  margarine,  not  butter 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
V*  cup  milk 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  box  confectioners  sugar 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  vanilla.  Add  eggs,  sour  cream  and  milk. 
Combine  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  sour  cream  mixture.  Pour  batter  into  2 
greased  and  floured  round  cake  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30 
minutes.  When  cool,  frost  with  caramel  icing. 

Caramel  Icing:  Melt  margarine  in  pan.  Do  not  use  butter.  Mix  in  brown 
sugar  and  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  boil  for  1  minute.  Add  vanilla.  Stir  and 
remove  from  heat.  Add  confectioners  sugar  a  cup  at  a  time  until  icing  is 
spreading  consistency. 


A  family  favorite  for  many  years! 


Lilla  Austin 


Desserts  305 


Mom's  Carrot  Cake 


2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs 

VA  cups  salad  oil 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  self-rising  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  soda 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  cups  finely  grated  carrots 


Frosting: 
Vi  cup  butter 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  box  4X  confectioners  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 


Beat  together  sugar,  eggs,  oil  and  vanilla.  Add  flour,  baking  soda  and 
cinnamon.  Beat  2  minutes  at  medium  speed.  Fold  in  carrots  by  hand. 
Divide  batter  into  three  8  or  9-inch  greased  and  floured  pans.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Bake  only  2  layers  per  oven. 

Frosting:  Cream  together  butter  and  cream  cheese.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Beat  well.  Add  pecans.  This  makes  enough  for  entire  cake. 

Mom  makes  this  cake  every  year  for  my  birthday.  It's  the  best! 

Marey  Choate 

Chewy  Cake 


%  cup  margarine 

1  box  light  brown  sugar 

3  eggs 


2  cups  self-rising  flour 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  nuts 


Cream  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  flour.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts. 
Pour  batter  into  greased  and  floured  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Bake  at  300  degrees 
for  1  hour.  Cake  will  crack. 

Elsie  Bamhardt 


306  Desserts 


Wayside  Inn  Carrot  Cake 


Serves  Twelve  to  Sixteen 


4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 

V/i  cups  vegetable  oil 

2  cups  self-rising  flour 

V  2  teaspoons  baking  soda 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2  (6-oz)  jars  baby  food  carrots 

V2  cup  walnuts  (optional) 


Icing: 

Vi  cup  margarine  or  butter 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  pound  powdered  sugar 
lA  to  Vi  cup  coconut 

Chopped  nuts  for  topping 


Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  oil  thoroughly.  Add  flour,  baking  soda  and  cinnamon 
and  mix  well.  Fold  in  carrots  and  nuts,  if  desired.  Bake  in  lightly  greased 
9x1 3-inch  pan  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes  or  in  3  8-inch  round  pans  at 
325  degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Cool  completely  and  cover  with  icing. 

Icing:  Cream  butter  and  cream  cheese  together.  Add  vanilla.  Mix  in  sugar 
and  coconut  until  smooth.  Spread  on  cake  and  sprinkle  nuts  on  top. 


A  new  way  to  think  about  baby  food. 


Nancy  Little 


Desserts  307 


My  grandmother,  Ruth  Allison 
Jacoway,  was  a  legendary  cook 
in  her  hometown  of 
Chattanooga,  Tennessee.   These 
prize-winning  squares  were  a 
hit  at  every  gathering. 

Glenda  Pettigrew 


The  Boys'  Favorite 
Chocolate  Cake 


1  box  Duncan  Hines  yellow 

cake  mix 
4  eggs 

%  cup  vegetable  oil 
V4  cup  water 
1  small  package  Jello  instant 

chocolate  pudding  mix 


8  ounces  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

12  ounces  milk  chocolate  chips 

Glaze: 

Vi  cup  butter 

Vs  cup  water 

Vi  cup  sugar 


Mix  all  ingredients,  except  chocolate  chips,  with  electric  mixer  for  3  to  5 
minutes.  Stir  in  chocolate  chips.  Pour  batter  into  well-greased  and  floured 
Bundt  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  While  cake  cools,  mix  glaze 
ingredients  over  low  heat.  Boil  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
warm  cake  from  pan.  Using  a  toothpick,  poke  holes  all  over  cake.  Pour 
glaze  over  cake  while  still  warm. 


Easy  and  travels  well. 

Fudge  Cake  Squares 

Yields  24  Squares 


Kay  Norris 


Vi  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Powdered  sugar 


Vi  cup  butter 

3  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

3  eggs 

lVi  cups  sugar 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  together  over  very  low  heat.  In  a  bowl,  beat  eggs 
and  add  sugar,  flour  and  vanilla.  Add  melted  chocolate  and  butter.  Grease 
a  7x9-inch  pan  and  line  with  wax  paper.  Pour  in  batter.  Bake  at  300 
degrees  for  55  to  60  minutes.  Do  not  overcook.  Turn  pan  upside  down 
over  cutting  board  and  remove  wax  paper.  Immediately  cut  into  squares. 
Dust  with  powdered  sugar  when  cool.  These  are  best  made  in  a  pan  that 
does  not  have  a  dark  coated  surface.  A  glass  baking  dish  works  best. 

Glenda  Pettigrew 


308  Desserts 


Chocolate  Cake 

1  cup  butter  Icing: 

2  cups  sugar  8  tablespoons  butter 

4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate,  4  rounded  tablespoons 

melted  marshmallow  cream 

4  large  eggs  8  to  12  drops  vanilla 

2  cups  cake  flour  4  cups  sugar 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  4  rounded  tablespoons  cocoa 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  1 '/,  cups  milk 

1  cup  water 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Combine  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  until  light  and  creamy.  Add  melted 
chocolate  and  beat  until  blended.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  slightly 
after  each  addition.  Mix  cake  flour,  cream  of  tartar  and  baking  soda.  Add 
to  chocolate  mixture  alternately  with  water.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  into  3 
greased  and  floured  9-inch  cake  pans.  Bake  at  375  degrees  until  done. 
Place  on  wire  racks  to  cool  after  baking. 

Icing:  Prepare  4  bowls  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  rounded  tablespoon 
marshmallow  cream  and  2  to  3  drops  vanilla  in  each  bowl.  Combine  sugar, 
cocoa  and  milk  in  heavy  weight  saucepan.  Stir  and  cook  on  medium  heat 
until  candy  thermometer  reaches  232  degrees.  Pour  mixture  into  4  prepared 
bowls.  Let  cool  30  minutes,  then  beat  until  mixture  thickens  enough  to  ice 
cake.  You  have  to  beat  icing  by  hand.  Use  one  bowl  to  ice  first  cake  layer. 
Stack  next  layer  and  ice  with  second  bowl  of  icing.  Use  third  bowl  to  ice 
last  layer.  Use  fourth  bowl  to  ice  sides  and  remainder  of  top  if  needed. 

The  icing  recipe  can  also  be  used  to  make  fudge.   Cook  just  a  fraction 
longer,  until  temperature  reaches  233  degrees.   When  you  beat  each  bowl 
of  mixture,  drop  by  teaspoonful  onto  wax  paper  and  top  with  pecan  half. 

Millie  Brooks 


Desserts  309 


This  is  a  childhood  prayer  that  I 
learned  in  Sunday  school  at 
MPPC: 

Two  little  eyes  to  look  to  God 
Two  little  ears  to  hear  His  prayers. 

One  little  mouth  to  speak  His  truth 
One  little  heart  to  give  Him  my 
youth. 

Two  little  hands  to  work  in  His 
way 

Two  little  feet  to  walk 
in  His  way. 

Take  them  to  Jesus  and  let  them  be 
Ever  obedient  and  true  to  Thee. 

Martha  McDonald  Robinson 


Chocolate  Mocha  Cake 


Vi  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  heaping  tablespoons  cocoa 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
1  cup  buttermilk 
VA  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Pinch  of  salt 


Filling: 

6  tablespoons  butter 
3  cups  confectioners  sugar 
1  scant  tablespoon  cocoa 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Few  grains  salt 
Strong,  cold  coffee  (enough  to 
make  filling  right  consistency) 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  cocoa. 
Dissolve  soda  in  buttermilk.  Add  buttermilk  mixture  and  flour  alternately, 
starting  and  ending  with  flour.  Add  vanilla  and  salt.  Pour  batter  into  2 
greased  and  floured  8-inch  layer  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes. 
Cool  completely  before  spreading  icing. 

Icing:  Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  until  smooth.  Spread  between 
layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake.  To  make  a  larger  cake,  double  the 
recipe  and  bake  in  three  10-inch  pans. 

This  is  a  favorite  of  my  children  and  is  so  easy  to  make! 

Martha  Robinson 


310  Desserts 


The  first  time  I  took  up  the 
offering,  I  started  passing  my 
plate  down  the  wrong  row;  so 
two  plates  were  now  coming, 
one  from  each  aisle.  Richard 
Vinroot,  seated  on  that  row, 
leaned  over  to  a  visitor  and 
whispered,  "We  take  our 
stewardship  seriously! " 

Anita  Zeigler 


Scotch  Cake  with  Frosting 


2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour 

2  cups  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

l/i  cup  shortening 

W  cup  Dutch  process  cocoa 

1  cup  water 


2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

'  i  cup  buttermilk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scotch  Cake  Frosting: 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

W  cup  Dutch  process  cocoa 

6  tablespoons  milk 

1  pound  confectioners  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 


Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt,  baking  soda,  baking  powder  and  cinnamon. 
Set  aside  in  mixing  bowl.  Combine  butter,  shortening,  cocoa  and  water  in 
saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  flour  mixture.  Add  eggs,  buttermilk 
and  vanilla.  Beat  with  electric  mixer  until  smooth.  Pour  batter  into  greased 
and  floured  9x1 3-inch  cake  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes. 
Cool  before  frosting. 

Frosting:  Mix  butter,  cocoa  and  milk  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Remove 
from  heat;  add  confectioners  sugar,  vanilla  and  pecans.  Stir  until  sugar  is 
smooth.  Spread  over  cooled  cake. 

Aunt  Nonie  brought  this  cake  to  all  special  family  gatherings  in  California. 
It's  a  favorite  from  Christmas  to  birthdays. 

Amy  Glenney 


Desserts  3 1 1 


/  arrived  at  the  church  at  6:30 
on  a  beautiful  summer  night  to 
be  married  at  8  p.m.   The 
wedding  party  changed  clothes 
downstairs  while  enjoying  the 
excitement  of  the  evening,  and 
Betty  Bridges  led  first  my 
mother  and  then  bridesmaids 
upstairs  to  their  places.  At  that 
time  I  was  told  that  because  of  a 
storm  and  heavy  downpour 
outside,  my  wedding  dress 
would  have  to  be  lifted  as  I 
walked  to  my  place  beside  my 
father.   The  back  of  the  church 
had  many  puddles  of  water  from 
the  drenched  guests  and  their 
umbrellas.  My  heart  sank  as  I 
took  those  steps  to  the  entrance 
of  the  sanctuary;  then  the  most 
wonderful  thing  happened.  As  I 
looked  down  the  aisle,  lightning 
filled  the  sky  and  lit  the  stained 
glass  windows  on  both  sides  of 
the  church  with  magnificent 
color  not  seen  by  me  before  or 
since.  I  could  hear  crashing 
thunder  behind  the  organ. 
Knowing  that  I  could  not  have 
planned  a  more  beautiful 
setting,  I  smiled  a  huge  smile 
and  walked  down  the  aisle  on 
the  best  night  of  my  life.  I  knew 
the  Lord  was  with  all  of  us  in 
that  church  on  June  8,  1996. 

Isabel  Owen 


Citrus  Mini  Cakes 


Yields  6  Dozen 


1  package  yellow  cake  mix 

VA  cups  water 

3  eggs 

lA  cup  vegetable  oil 


3  Vi  cups  confectioners  sugar 
Vi  cup  orange  juice 
V*  cup  lemon  juice 


In  mixing  bowl,  combine  cake  mix,  water,  eggs  and  oil;  beat  on  low  speed 
for  30  seconds.  Beat  on  medium  speed  for  2  minutes.  Fill  well-greased 
miniature  muffin  cups  %  full.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes  or 
until  toothpick  inserted  near  the  center  comes  out  clean.  Meanwhile,  in 
separate  bowl,  combine  sugar  and  juices  until  smooth.  Cool  cakes  for  1 
minute;  remove  from  pans.  Immediately  dip  cakes  into  glaze,  coating  well. 
Place  on  aluminum  foil  or  wire  racks  with  aluminum  foil  underneath 
(because  glaze  will  drip). 

Isabel  Owen 

Christmas  Kahlua  Cake 


1  box  deep  chocolate  cake  mix 

Vi  cup  salad  oil 

1  small  package  instant 

chocolate  pudding 
4  eggs 

3A  cup  strong  coffee 
%  cup  combined  Kahlua  and 

Creme  de  Cocoa  liqueurs 


Topping: 

1  cup  sifted  confectioners  sugar 

2  tablespoons  strong  coffee 
2  tablespoons  Kahlua 

2  tablespoons  Creme  de  Cocoa 


Combine  cake  mix,  salad  oil,  pudding,  eggs,  coffee,  and  liqueur  mixture  in 
large  bowl.  Beat  4  minutes  at  medium  speed  or  until  smooth.  Pour  into 
greased  Bundt  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes  or  until  toothpick 
comes  out  clean.  Remove  from  pan  when  cool.  Combine  topping 
ingredients  and  mix  until  smooth.  Punch  holes  in  cake  with  a  fork.  Spoon 
topping  over  cake. 

Helen  Kaufinan 


312  Desserts 


Bill  Tyson's  Famous  Coconut  Cake 

Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  yellow  cake  1  (14-oz)  can  Eagle  Brand 

mix  sweetened  condensed  milk 

3  large  eggs  1  (15-oz)  can  Coco  Lopez 
IV3  cups  water  coconut  creme 

lA  cup  vegetable  oil  Vz  cup  shredded  coconut  (optional) 
1  large  container  Cool  Whip 

Bake  yellow  cake  in  2  round  pans  according  to  package  instructions,  using 
eggs,  water  and  oil.  Remove  cakes  from  pans  and  cool  completely.  Put  one 
cake  layer  on  a  plate.  Mix  1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk  and  1  can  coconut  creme 
together.  Using  a  fork,  pierce  cake  and  pull  to  form  a  crater  in  the  center  of 
the  cake.  Pour  Eagle  Brand  and  coconut  creme  mixture  into  the  opening. 
Repeat  all  over  top  of  cake  until  completely  saturated,  like  a  sponge  full  of 
water.  Cover  cake  with  a  thick  layer  of  Cool  Whip.  Put  second  cake  layer 
on  top  and  repeat  with  Eagle  Brand  milk  and  coconut  creme  mixture. 
Cover  top  and  sides  with  thick  coating  of  Cool  Whip.  Sprinkle  with 
shredded  coconut,  if  desired.  Refrigerate  at  least  4  hours  in  a  covered  cake 
stand  before  serving.  Serve  cold.  Can  make  1  day  ahead.  This  cake  is 
delicious  made  with  a  chocolate  cake  mix. 

This  is  my  father's  coconut  cake  recipe.  It  is  a  favorite  at  family 

gatherings,  especially  during  the  holidays,  and  has  been  served 

at  dinner  parties,  baby  showers  and  such  across  the  state. 

Watch  out  -  it 's  easy,  delicious  and  addicting! 

Beth  Heeseman 


Desserts  313 


Coconut  Cake 


1  box  yellow  cake  mix 

16  ounces  sour  cream 

(low  fat  will  work) 


12  ounces  frozen  coconut 
12  ounces  Cool  Whip 
1  cup  sugar 


Bake  yellow  cake  mix  according  to  directions  on  box.  After  the  2  layers 
cool,  using  a  long  bladed  bread  knife,  slice  each  layer  making  a  total  of  4 
layers.  Mix  sour  cream  and  sugar  and  about  10  ounces  of  the  coconut. 
Spread  this  mixture  between  each  cake  layer  leaving  about  %  cup  in  the 
bowl.  Mix  the  Cool  Whip  with  the  sour  cream  mixture  that  is  left  in  the 
bowl.  "Ice"  the  cake  with  this  mixture.  Sprinkle  the  remaining  2  ounces  of 
coconut  on  top  of  the  cake. 


Make  and  refrigerate  3  days  before  serving. 


Lucy  Grasty 


Daddy's  Favorite  Coconut  Cake 


1  box  yellow  cake  mix 
8  ounces  sour  cream 
Vi  can  cream  of  coconut 


1  package  grated  frozen  coconut 

or  fresh  coconut,  grated 
1  large  carton  whipped  topping 


Prepare  cake  mix  in  2  layer  pans  according  to  directions.  Cool  and  slice 
each  layer  to  form  4  layers.  Mix  sour  cream,  Vi  can  cream  of  coconut  (can 
freeze  remainder)  and  Vi  package  grated  coconut.  Spread  on  cake  layers 
and  stack.  Smooth  whipped  topping  over  entire  cake  and  sprinkle  with 
remaining  coconut.  Refrigerate  and  let  set  up  for  24  hours.  Keep 
refrigerated. 

Can  decorate  for  seasons  with  holly  sprigs,  Easter  eggs  or  jelly  beans. 

Frances  Evans 


314  Desserts 


Favorite  memories  that  stand 
out  from  my  years  at  MPPC 
come  from  youth  mission  trips. 
In  1989  our  youth  in  an  outdoor 
shopping  district  in  Kingston, 
Jamaica,  failed  to  take  seriously 
warnings  about  sticking 
together  and  in  sight  of  an 
adult.  Several  suddenly  found 
themselves  cornered  and  victims 
of  a  set-up  "you  broke  it,  you 
pay  for  it "  scam.  Our  adult 
chaperones,  after  a  police 
confrontation  that  almost 
reached  diplomatic  levels, 
finally  got  the  youth  back  on  the 
bus.  In  one  fell  swoop  our 
youth  matured  that  day  by 
immeasurable  lengths  through  a 
dramatic  lesson  on  crime, 
hunger  and  human  pain. 
Another  youth  group,  driving 
through  Beartooth  Pass  from 
Colorado  to  Red  Lodge, 
Montana,  encountered  a  sunset 
so  breathtaking  that  we  pulled 
all  four  vans  over  for  a 
spontaneous  worship  service  on 
a  highway  10,000  feet  up.  And 
in  New  York,  our  youth  serving 
supper  to  street  people  in  the 
Bowery  brought  to  life  every 
word  of  Matthew' s  account  of 
the  feeding  of  the  5,000.   Youth 
ministry  at  MPPC  is  never  a 
"harvesting  "  mission  but 
always  and  forever  "seed- 
planting.  "  Keep  it  up! 

Tyler  Downing 


Freddy's  Fruit  Cake 


6  eggs 

1  cup  Crisco 

1  cup  blackberry  wine 

1  box  light  or  dark  raisins 

1  box  brown  sugar 

3  pounds  or  3  cartons  mixed 

cut-up  fruit 
1  box  currants 
1  pint  pecan  pieces 


Vz  cup  flour 

3  cups  flour 

1V4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

Vi  teaspoon  allspice 


Beat  eggs.  Combine  Crisco,  wine,  raisins  and  brown  sugar  in  saucepan  and 
heat  until  melted.  Remove  from  heat  and  cool.  In  large  bowl,  mix  all  other 
fruits  and  pecans  with  Vi  cup  flour  to  keep  fruit  separated.  Sift  together  3 
cups  flour,  baking  powder,  soda,  salt  and  spices.  In  a  large  wooden  bowl, 
combine  cooled  sugar  mixture  and  eggs.  Blend  in  flour  mixture.  When 
well  blended,  mix  in  fruit  a  little  at  a  time  with  a  big  spoon  until  thoroughly 
mixed. 

For  individual  servings,  place  paper  muffin  cups  in  miniature  muffin  pan 
and  fill  with  batter.  Decorate  each  with  a  green  or  red  cherry.  Bake  40  to 
45  minutes  at  250  to  300  degrees.  For  large  cake,  pour  batter  into  greased 
and  floured  large  tube  pan;  decorate  cake  with  green  and  red  cherries  and 
pecans.  Bake  about  3  hours  at  250  degrees.  Remove  from  oven  and,  using 
a  baster,  douse  each  cake  with  a  little  extra  blackberry  wine. 

Freddy  never  gave  anyone  complete  recipes.  I  had  to  stay  in  the  kitchen 

one  entire  December  day  in  1972  to  watch  and  write  down  each  ingredient 

and  step.  I've  made  this  fruitcake  every  December  since  then. 

DeeDee  McKay 


Desserts  315 


Aunt  Mayme's 
Italian  Cream  Cake 


Vi  cup  butter 
Vi  cup  Crisco 
2  cups  sugar 

5  egg  yolks 
2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
1  cup  buttermilk 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

6  ounces  frozen  coconut,  thawed 


1  cup  chopped  pecans 
5  egg  whites,  beaten 
Icing: 

8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 

■4  cup  butter 

1  box  confectioners  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 

6  ounces  frozen  coconut,  thawed 


Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks  and  beat.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  soda.  Add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  buttermilk.  Stir  in 
vanilla,  coconut  and  pecans.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Line  bottoms  of  3 
greased  9-inch  cake  pans  with  wax  paper.  Pour  cake  batter  into  pans  and 
bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  minutes.  Cool  layers  and  ice. 


Icing:  Combine  icing  ingredients,  mixing  well, 
cooled  cake  and  on  top  and  sides. 


Spread  between  layers  of 

Margaret  Parish 


316  Desserts 


In  the  fall  of  1989  Gateway 
Class  talked  with  our  "new  " 
Associate  Pastor  Jane  Summey 
about  an  outreach  ministry,  and 
in  her  magical  way  Jane 
introduced  us  to  Patricia  Fields, 
social  worker  for  a  westside 
housing  project  called  Dalton 
Village.  The  class  made  a  five 
year  commitment  which  eleven 
years  later  is  still  alive  through 
the  memory  of  our  deceased 
friend  Patricia  in  the  form  of 
scholarships  {financial 
assistance)  for  westside  college 
students.  Dalton  Village  no 
longer  exists;  today  it  is  called 
Arbor  Glen.   The  memory  that 
continues  to  impact  my  life  and 
the  life  of  my  family  is  the 
Dalton  Village  After-School 
Program!  It  was  the  best  and 
the  hardest  of  ministries.  Hand- 
in-hand,  Gateway  and 
congregational  members 
became  disciples,  and  the  doors 
remained  open  for  the  children 
and  their  parents  for  nearly  nine 
years.  My  senses  still  overflow 
with  thoughts  of  the  children, 
their  environment  and 
consequence  needs,  their  trust 
which,  if  obtained,  was  the 
sweetest.  I  can  see  their  eyes, 
feel  their  uncertainty  go  across 
my  face,  catch  that  little  grin, 
and  remember  that  we  did  okay. 

Susie  Gulp 


Mom's  Nutty  Nut  Cake 


Glaze: 

V-h  cups  sifted  confectioners 

sugar 
1  tablespoon  melted  margarine 
1  to  2  tablespoons  milk 
Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 


2  cups  self-rising  flour 

2  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  allspice 
1  cup  salad  oil 

3  eggs 

1  (8-oz)  jar  baby  food  prunes 

with  tapioca 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 


Place  all  ingredients,  in  order  given,  into  a  large  mixing  bowl.  Beat  on 
medium  speed  until  well  blended.  Do  not  over  mix.  Turn  into  a  greased 
and  lightly  floured  10-inch  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 
Allow  cake  to  cool  for  15  to  20  minutes  before  removing  from  pan. 
Combine  glaze  ingredients.  While  still  warm,  pour  glaze  over  cake. 

This  cake  recipe  was  given  to  me  as  "Prune  Cake, "  but  since  I  knew  my 

three  children  would  not  eat  it  if  I  used  that  name,  I  renamed  it  "Nutty  Nut 

Cake.  "  Many  years  and  many  cakes  later,  my  son  caught  me  as  I  added  the 

prunes  to  the  batter.  Fortunately,  it's  his  favorite  cake,  so  he  forgave  his 

mom  and  even  requested  it  recently  for  his  46' '  birthday. 

Mary  Kathryn  "Cassie"  Broadway 


Desserts  111 


Two  days  stand  out  as  the  very 
highest  of  my  life:  the  day  I  was 
ordained  to  the  ministry  of 
Word  and  Sacrament  and  a 
gray,  rainy  day  in  April  at 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church.   Clouds  hovered  over 
the  sanctuary,  and  the  cool  air 
was  damp  as  a  wrung-out 
dishcloth—not  at  all  the  colotful 
spring  day  I  had  anticipated.  I 
tried  not  to  care  that  the  tent  on 
the  lawn  would  not  be  used,  that 
my  hair  would  flatten  like  cotton 
candy,  that  people  might  not 
feel  like  getting  out  on  a  rainy 
Saturday  afternoon.  I  tried  not 
to  care  that  God  let  it  rain  on 
my  wedding  day!  I  primped  and 
prayed  and  tried  to  be  grateful. 
With  trembling  legs,  I  stepped 
into  the  Narthex,  leaning  hard 
on  my  father' s  strong  arm.  I 
peeked  in  the  sanctuary,  and 
tears  sprang  to  my  eyes— there 
were  the  gleaming  sunshine, 
sparkling  flowers,  robin's  egg 
blue  skies!  Pews  overflowed 
with  smiling,  tender  faces; 
God's  love  was  embodied  in 
Christ 's  body  here  on  earth.  My 
deepest  desires  have  been 
granted  in  what  God  ordained: 
the  privilege  of  serving  our  Lord 
here  at  MPPC,  the  miracle  of 
meeting  my  husband  Dale,  and 
the  blessing  of  our  daughter, 
Amanda  Jane.  Praise  be  to  God 
for  the  rain!  Alleluia! 

Jane  Summev  Mullenni.x 


Oatmeal  Cake 


IVi  cups  hot  water 

1  cup  Quaker  one-minute  oatmeal 

Vz  cup  margarine 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  egg  white 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt 

Topping: 

1 :  cup  margarine 
1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  coconut 

2  tablespoons  evaporated  milk 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  egg  yolk 


Cream  water,  oatmeal,  margarine,  and  sugars.  Blend  in  eggs,  egg  white, 
and  vanilla.  Add  flour,  baking  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  mix  well. 
Bake  in  greased  9x1 3-inch  pan  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Stir  topping 
ingredients  together.  Heat  for  5  minutes,  but  do  not  boil.  Spread  on  hot 
cake. 

Diane  Barrus 

Mandarin  Orange  Cake 


1  box  butter  recipe  golden  cake 

mix 
1  small  can  mandarin  oranges, 

crushed  by  hand,  with  juice 
Vx  cup  oil 
4  eggs 


Frosting: 
9  ounces  Cool  Whip 
1  large  can  crushed  pineapple, 

without  juice 
1  small  box  instant  vanilla 

pudding  mix 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a  mixer  until  well  blended.  Pour  into  2  or  3 
prepared  cake  pans  and  bake  at  350  degrees.  If  baked  in  2  pans,  bake  25 
minutes.  If  baked  in  3  pans,  bake  15  minutes  or  more.  Cool  completely 
before  frosting.  Blend  frosting  ingredients  together  and  spread  between 
cake  layers  and  on  top.  Store  in  refrigerator. 

Catherine  Harkev 


318   Desserts 


Fresh  Orange  Cake 

Sen'es  Eight 

4  eggs  1  small  package  instant  coconut 

Vi  cup  vegetable  oil  pudding  mix 

lVi  cups  fresh  orange  juice,  2  teaspoons  orange  zest,  divided 

divided  Vi  cup  sugar 

1  box  yellow  cake  mix  2  teaspoons  butter 

Combine  eggs,  oil  and  1  cup  orange  juice  in  a  mixing  bowl  and  mix  until 
smooth.  Add  cake  mix,  pudding  mix  and  1  teaspoon  orange  zest  and  beat 
for  2  minutes  at  medium  speed.  Spoon  batter  into  greased  and  floured 
Bundt  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes,  or  until  cake  tests  done. 
Combine  sugar,  butter,  V2  cup  orange  juice  and  1  teaspoon  orange  zest  in  a 
saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  hot  cake  in  the  pan.  Let  stand  5 
minutes,  then  remove  to  a  serving  plate  to  cool  completely. 

Marge  Rowe 

Strawberry  Cake 

Sen'es  Eight 

1  small  package  strawberry  Jello  Icing: 

4  eggs  1  box  lOx  confectioners  sugar 

%  cup  Wesson  oil  Vi  cup  margarine,  melted 

1  Duncan  Hines  white  cake  mix  Vi  cup  strawberries 

Vi  cup  water 

Vi  cup  strawberries 

Combine  first  3  ingredients  and  beat  well.  Add  cake  mix,  water  and 
strawberries.  Pour  batter  into  3  greased  and  floured  layer  cake  pans  and 
bake  at  350  degrees  until  firm  in  the  center.  Cool  and  remove  from  pan. 
Beat  icing  ingredients  together  and  frost  layers  with  icing. 

A  JO-ounce  package  of  frozen  strawberries,  thawed,  will  give  the  amount 
needed  for  the  recipe. 

Lib  Gallagher 
Desserts  319 


Coconut 
Frosting 

1  large  can  evaporated  milk 
1  cup  sugar 
Vi  cup  butter 
3  egg  yolks,  blended 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Wi  cups  coconut 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 
(optional) 

In  a  large  saucepan,  combine 
milk,  sugar,  butter,  egg  yolks 
and  vanilla.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  about  1 2 
minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
until  mixture  thickens. 
Remove  from  heat  and  add 
coconut  and  nuts.  Beat  until 
cool  and  spreading 
consistency.  Spread  between 
layers  and  on  top  of  Sweet 
Potato  Surprise  Cake. 

Catherine  Harkey 


Pumpkin-Chocolate  Chip  Cake 


2  cups  sugar 

3  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  teaspoons  baking  soda 
Vi  teaspoon  cinnamon 
lA  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 


1  cup  oil 

4  eggs,  beaten 

1  (16-oz)  can  pumpkin 

6  ounces  chocolate  chips 

2  cups  chopped  nuts  (optional) 
Confectioners  sugar  (optional) 


Mix  together  first  7  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  Add  oil,  eggs  and  pumpkin. 
Stir  in  chocolate  chips  and  nuts,  if  desired.  Bake  in  a  greased  and  floured 
tube  pan  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour  to  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  Cool  15  to  20 
minutes,  then  remove  from  pan.  Sprinkle  with  confectioners  sugar  if 
desired. 

My  husband  made  this  cake  for  my  birthday  shortly  after  we  began  dating. 

He  loves  chocolate  but  does  not  like  pies,  so  this  has  become  our 

Thanksgiving  dessert. 

Linda  Campbell-Feingold 

Sweet  Potato  Surprise  Cake 


IVi  cups  cooking  oil 

2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs,  separated 

4  tablespoons  hot  water 

2Vi  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 


lA  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Wi  cups  grated  raw  sweet  potato 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Combine  oil  and  sugar,  beating  until  smooth.  Add  egg  yolks  and  beat  well. 
Add  water  and  then  dry  ingredients  that  have  been  sifted  together.  Stir  in 
potatoes,  nuts  and  vanilla,  beating  well.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  fold 
into  mixture.  Turn  batter  into  three  8-inch  layer  pans  that  have  been 
greased  and  floured.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Cool  and 
frost  with  Coconut  Frosting. 

Catherine  Harkey 


320  Desserts 


Almond  Butter  Pound  Cake 

1  pound  butter  1  confections  sugar  box  of  cake 

1  box  confectioners  sugar,  sifted  flour,  sifted 

Vi  cup  sugar  1  cup  whipping  cream 

6  extra  large  eggs  Crisco  to  grease  Bundt  pan 

2  teaspoons  almond  extract 

Allow  butter  to  soften.  Cream  butter  and  sugars.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time 
and  then  almond  extract  at  a  high  speed.  Pour  cake  flour  into  empty 
confectioners  sugar  box  to  measure.  Add  flour  and  cream  alternately  and 
slowly  to  cake  mixture,  beginning  and  ending  with  flour.  Pour  into  well- 
greased  and  floured  Bundt  pan.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  llA  to  Wi  hours. 

Kim  Cornelson 

Buttermilk  Pound  Cake 

Sewes  Sixteen 

3  cups  all-purpose  flour  4  eggs 

lA  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  butter,  at  room  temperature        1  cup  buttermilk 
2Vi  cups  sugar 

Sift  flour  and  baking  soda  together.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  well 
blended.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  on  high  speed  of  electric 
mixer  after  each  addition.  Add  vanilla  to  buttermilk.  Add  dry  ingredients 
alternately  with  buttermilk  to  creamed  mixture.  Do  not  over  beat.  Pour 
batter  into  greased  or  non-stick  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 
When  toothpick  comes  out  clean,  cake  is  ready.  Freezes  well. 

Melanie  McGavran 


Desserts  321 


Cream  Cheese  Pound  Cake 


6  eggs,  beaten  separately 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 

1  cup  butter 

2  cups  self-rising  flour,  sifted 
2  cups  sugar 


2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Icing: 

Wi  cups  confectioners  sugar 
Juice  of  1  lemon 


Beat  eggs.  In  a  separate  bowl,  combine  cream  cheese  and  butter.  Add  eggs 
and  beat  well.  Add  flour,  one  cup  at  a  time  and  stir  thoroughly.  Add  sugar 
and  beat  until  light,  about  1  to  2  minutes.  Add  vanilla  and  stir.  Pour  batter 
into  Bundt  pan  that  has  been  buttered  and  lightly  dusted  with  flour  (I  put  1 
tablespoon  butter  in  pan  and  heat  in  oven  to  melt  and  spread  evenly,  then 
dust  with  flour).  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  to  60  minutes.  When  slightly 
cooled,  turn  out  onto  a  plate. 

Icing:  Sift  confectioners  sugar  and  mix  with  lemon  juice.  Glaze  cake  when 
almost  cool. 

This  is  simply  the  easiest  no-fail  cake  recipe  you  will  find.  It's  great  served 
with  strawberries  and  cream  or  toasted  with  ice  cream  and  hot  fudge. 

Brenda  Ivanoff 

Easy  Chocolate  Chip  Pound  Cake 


1  box  yellow  cake  mix 
4  large  eggs 

1  small  package  instant  chocolate 
pudding 


Vi  cup  vegetable  oil 
8  ounces  sour  cream 
1  small  package  semi-sweet 
chocolate  chips 


Mix  first  5  ingredients  together.  Fold  in  chocolate  chips.  Bake  in  a  greased 
and  floured  Bundt  or  tube  pan  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  May  substitute 
other  flavors  of  pudding,  and  may  use  butterscotch  or  peanut  butter  chips 
instead  of  chocolate  chips,  if  desired. 

Braden  Hamilton 


322  Desserts 


By  the  time  I  decided  to  move  to 
Charlotte  from  Winston-Salem, 
I  had  been  a  frequent  visitor  to 
MP  PC.  My  friends  in  Winston 
discouraged  the  move,  saying, 
"You  are  too  old  to  make  all 
new  friends.  "   Thanks  to  MPPC, 
they  were  wrong.  Although  it  is 
a  large  church,  I  have  found  the 
members  extremely  friendly, 
kind  and  very  accepting  of 
"new"  people.  During  one  of 
my  visits,  I  sat  next  to  Betsy  and 
John  Johnson.   When  they  found 
out  I  was  a  visitor,  they  went  out 
of  their  way  to  include  me  with 
warmth  and  friendliness  in  the 
service.  Later  that  day  while 
shopping  in  Fresh  Market,  Betsy 
saw  me  and  called  me  by  name. 
Beckoning  to  John  from  across 
the  aisle,  she  said,  "Oh,  John, 
come  here— here  is  our  new 
friend,  Nancy.  "  My  heart 
warmed,  and  I  thought  "What  a 
wonderful  thing  to  say.  "  In 
eight  years  I  have  continued  to 
make  many  wonderful  new 
friends  at  MPPC-of  all  ages. 

Nancy  Elberson 


Easy  Pound  Cake 


IV2  cups  margarine 

3  cups  sugar 

3  cups  flour 

5  large  eggs  or  6  small  eggs 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
W  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  milk 


All  ingredients  should  be  at  room  temperature.  Cream  margarine  until  light 
in  color  (almost  white).  Add  sugar  and  cream  some  more.  Add  eggs,  one  at 
a  time,  and  beat  well.  Add  baking  powder  and  salt  to  flour.  Add  flour 
mixture  and  milk  alternately  to  margarine  mixture,  beginning  and  ending 
with  flour.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  batter  into  large  greased  and  floured  tube  pan. 
Bake  at  325  degrees  for  about  1  hour  and  10  minutes,  or  until  done.  Do  not 
open  oven  door  for  at  least  1  hour. 

Chocolate  Pound  Cake:  Use  same  recipe  and  add  Vi  cup  cocoa  plus  VA  cups 
milk  instead  of  1  cup  milk. 

Ellen  Witherspoon  gave  this  recipe  to  me  many  years  ago.  It  has  never 

failed!  My  large  family  and  friends  have  enjoyed  this  cake  over  and  over 

through  the  years. 

Jean  Graeber 

Hill's  Cold  Oven  Pound  Cake 


Vi  cup  butter 

1  cup  shortening 

3  cups  sugar 

3  cups  all-purpose  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


5  eggs 

1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  order  listed.  Pour  batter  into  greased  10-inch  tube 
pan.  Place  in  cold  oven.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes, 
until  top  has  golden  crust. 

Louise  Smith 


Desserts  323 


Four  Flavor  Pound  Cake 


1  cup  butter 

Vi  cup  Crisco 

3  cups  sugar 

5  eggs 

3  cups  all-purpose  flour 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder 

XA  teaspoon  salt 


1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  each:  almond,  coconut, 

rum  and  vanilla  extracts 
Glaze: 

1  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  almond  extract 


Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar  well.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  mixing  well 
after  each  addition.  Add  baking  powder  and  salt  to  flour.  Add  flour 
mixture  and  milk  alternately  to  butter  and  egg  mixture,  beginning  and 
ending  with  flour.  Do  not  over  mix.  Add  all  four  extracts  and  stir  or  beat 
lightly  until  mixed.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  10-inch  tube  pan.  Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  let  stand 
for  10  minutes.  During  this  ten  minutes,  prepare  the  glaze.  In  a  medium 
saucepan,  pour  in  sugar  and  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  until  sugar  is 
melted,  stirring  constantly.  This  just  takes  a  few  minutes.  Remove  from 
heat  and  stir  in  almond  extract.  Remove  cake  from  tube  pan  and  prick  holes 
in  the  top  with  a  toothpick.  Spoon  the  glaze  a  little  at  a  time  over  the  top  of 
the  cake  until  it  all  soaks  in.  Cool  completely  before  storing. 

This  recipe  came  from  Pat  Hallman  who  taught  Toddlers  at  our  Preschool. 

It 's  my  very  most  favorite  cake  to  make  and  now  everyone  knows  how 

simple  it  is  to  make  .  .  .  Enjoy! 


Martha  Pendleton 


324  Desserts 


The  MPPC  Singles  Ministry  was 
a  wonderful  spiritual  experience 
for  us  (1990-96):  annual 
Halloween  and  Easter  parties 
with  Dalton  Village  children, 
Thursday  night  Bible  study  at 
the  Cornerstone  followed  by 
conversation  at  5  Steps  Down, 
Singles  Retreats  at  the  beach 
and  mountains,  Mexico  Mission 
Trip  in  1994,  where  we  grew  in 
our  knowledge  of  the  "Border.  " 
Now  we  both  are  involved  with 
the  Ark  Sunday  school  class  and 
a  Covenant  Group.  But  the  best 
memories  ever  are  of  our  1996 
wedding  and  our  infant 's  2000 
baptism,  reminding  us  of  God's 
love  for  us  in  helping  us  find 
each  other  and  blessing  us  with 
a  child  to  love  and  nurture. 

Jolinda  and  Brad  Boelkins 


German  Chocolate  Pound  Cake 

Serves  Eighteen  to  Twenty 


1  box  German  chocolate  cake  mix 
V*  cup  vegetable  oil 
1  cup  water 


3  large  eggs 

1  (15-oz)  container  coconut  pecan 
frosting 


In  a  large  mixing  bowl,  combine  cake  mix,  oil,  water  and  eggs.  Mix  with 
electric  mixer  on  very  low  speed  for  3  minutes.  Do  not  over  mix  or  cake 
will  fall.  Add  container  of  frosting  and  continue  mixing  on  very  low  speed 
for  2  minutes.  Again,  do  not  over  mix.  Pour  batter  into  a  greased  and 
floured  Bundt  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  55  to  60  minutes,  or  until 
cake  tests  done.  Allow  cake  to  cool  in  pan.  Invert  cooled  cake  onto  plate 
and  cool  thoroughly  before  slicing. 


A  very  easy  cake  to  prepare  and  the  frosting  is  in  the  cake! 
Grandchildren  will  always  ask  for  another  slice. 


Mary  Way 


Lossie  Mason's  Pound  Cake 


IVi  cups  butter 

3  cups  sugar 

8  ounces  cream  cheese 

6  eggs 


3  cups  Swans  Down  flour 
2  teaspoons  flavoring  -  vanilla, 
lemon  or  almond 


Cream  butter,  sugar  and  cream  cheese  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  eggs  one 
at  a  time,  mixing  well  after  each  addition.  Gradually  add  flour.  Add 
flavoring.  Mix  well,  but  do  not  over  beat.  Bake  in  greased  pan  at  325 
degrees  for  IV2  hours.  May  use  tube  pan,  Bundt  pan  or  2  medium-sized  loaf 
pans.  With  some  tube  pans,  there  may  be  enough  batter  to  fill  a  mini  loaf 
pan. 

This  recipe  was  given  to  me  by  a  fellow  kindergarten  teacher  when  I  taught 

school  in  Durham.  I've  been  making  this  cake  for  25  years  and 

it  never  fails  to  please  a  crowd! 

Wendx  Kenney 


Desserts  325 


Red  Velvet  Pound  Cake 


1  pound  margarine 

3  cups  sugar 

6  large  eggs 

VA  cups  all-purpose  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  cocoa 

1  cup  buttermilk 

1  ounce  red  food  coloring 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Cream  Cheese  Icing: 

Vi  cup  margarine,  at  room 

temperature 
1  box  10X  confectioners  sugar 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
8  ounces  cream  cheese,  at 

room  temperature 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Cream  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each 
addition.  Add  flour,  baking  powder  and  cocoa  alternately  with  buttermilk 
and  red  food  coloring.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  batter  into  greased  and  floured 
10-inch  tube  pan.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  1  hour  and  20  minutes,  or  until 
cake  tests  done.  Cool  in  pan  for  10  minutes  and  invert  onto  greased  wire 
rack.  Re-invert  onto  cake  plate  and  allow  to  cool  completely.  Ice  with 
Cream  Cheese  Icing. 

Cream  Cheese  Icing:  Combine  all  ingredients,  and  beat  at  high  speed  using 
electric  mixer  until  smooth. 

Butter  may  be  substituted  for  margarine  to  give  the  cake  a  better  texture 
and  flavor  and  to  make  a  better,  firmer  icing  for  spreading. 


Lynn  Mclver 


326  Desserts 


Amaretto  Cheesecake 

V/i  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

lA  cup  sugar  V*  cup  Amaretto  liqueur 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

2  pounds  cream  cheese,  softened  2  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 
V/i  cups  sugar  lA  cup  cream 

Mix  together  graham  cracker  crumbs,  sugar  and  butter.  Press  into  bottom 
of  10-inch  springform  pan.  Cream  together  cream  cheese  and  sugar.  Add 
vanilla  and  Amaretto.  Blend  in  eggs,  egg  yolks  and  cream  to  make  smooth 
batter.  Pour  batter  into  crust.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Reduce 
temperature  to  350  degrees  and  bake  an  additional  45  minutes.  Turn  oven 
off  and  open  door  slightly.  Leave  cheesecake  in  oven  for  about  10  minutes. 
Refrigerate  until  chilled. 

Easy  and  so  good! 

Carter  MacBain 

Basic  Cheesecake 

Yields  One  8-Inch  Cheesecake 

Graham  Cracker  Crust:  16  ounces  Neufchatel  cheese 

Vi  cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

20  whole  graham  crackers  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  pecans  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

3  eggs  (can  use  2  for  thicker  cake)  lA  teaspoon  salt 
3  cups  reduced  fat  sour  cream 

Combine  crust  ingredients  in  food  processor.  If  mixture  is  not  moist 
enough,  add  more  butter.  Press  crust  mixture  into  8-inch  springform  pan. 
With  electric  mixer,  mix  remaining  ingredients  and  pour  into  crust.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  45  minutes.  Turn  oven  off.  Leave  cake  in  oven  for  at  least 
1  hour.  Middle  of  cheesecake  will  still  jiggle.  Remove  from  oven  and  cool 
in  refrigerator.  Variation:  Can  add  liqueur  like  Amaretto  to  sour  cream  to 
equal  3  cups.  Can  also  add  chocolate  chips  to  batter. 

Sunny  Lambeth  Allen 


Desserts  327 


Pumpkin  Cheese  Cake 

Yields  12  Three-Inch  Squares 


Crust: 

VA  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs 
Va  cup  melted  butter 
Vz  cup  sugar 

Cheesecake: 
2  eggs 
16  ounces  cream  cheese, 

softened 
3A  cup  sugar 


Pumpkin  Layer: 

1  (1-lb)  can  pumpkin 

Vi  cup  evaporated  milk 

3  eggs,  separated 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1 :  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  envelope  gelatin,  softened  in 

XA  cup  warm  water 
V*  cup  sugar 
Cool  Whip 


Crust:  Combine  ingredients  and  pat  into  9x1 3-inch  pan. 

Cheesecake:  Combine  all  ingredients  and  beat  until  smooth.  Spread  on 
crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Cool. 

Pumpkin  Layer:  Combine  all  ingredients  except  gelatin,  water,  egg  whites 
and  Cool  Whip  in  saucepan.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick.  Let  mixture  come  to  a  boil  and  cook  5  minutes.  Remove  from 
heat  and  add  gelatin.  Cool  completely.  Beat  3  egg  whites  until  stiff  and 
add  V*  cup  sugar.  Fold  into  pumpkin  and  spread  on  baked  cheesecake.  Top 
with  Cool  Whip  and  refrigerate.  May  be  prepared  several  days  ahead. 


Wynne  McLean 


328  Desserts 


Apple 
Cranberry  Pie 

Pastry  for  9-inch  two  crust  pie 

Va  cup  brown  sugar 

W  cup  sugar 

l/a  cup  all-purpose  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  cups  pared  and  sliced  tart 
apples 

2  cups  cranberries 

2  tablespoons  butter  or 
margarine 

Line  pie  pan  with  1  pastry. 
In  large  bowl,  combine 
sugars,  flour  and  cinnamon. 
Add  fruit.  Mix  well.  Turn 
into  pastry  lined  pan.  Dot 
with  butter.  Cover  with  top 
crust  and  seal  edges.  Cut 
slits  in  top  crust.  Bake  at  450 
degrees  for  40  minutes  until 
brown. 

The  cranberries  can  be 
bought  in  season  and  frozen. 

Sylvia  Dalton 


Angel  Pie 
(Lemon  Meringue  torte) 


Senses  Eight  to  Twelve 


3  egg  whites 

1  cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup  whipping  cream 


Lemon  Custard  Filling: 
4  egg  yolks 
Vi  cup  sugar 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
2  tablespoons  grated  lemon  rind 


Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  glossy.  Gradually  beat  in  sugar.  Slowly  add 
lemon  juice.  When  mixture  is  stiff,  pour  into  greased  and  floured  9-inch  pie 
pan.  Bake  at  275  degrees  for  60  minutes.  Let  cool  completely.  The 
mixture  will  settle  and  crack  on  top,  and  should  be  lightly  browned.  Once 
cooled,  whip  the  whipping  cream  until  stiff  and  spread  half  of  it  over  the 
meringue  shell.  Next,  add  the  cooled  lemon  custard  filling.  Cover  top  with 
the  remaining  whipped  cream  and  chill  for  several  hours  before  serving. 

Lemon  Custard  Filling:  Beat  4  egg  yolks  until  thick.  Gradually  beat  in 
sugar.  Blend  in  lemon  juice  and  lemon  rind.  Cook  entire  mixture  in  double 
boiler  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  thick,  about  5  to  8  minutes. 
Cool  completely. 

This  was  my  grandmother' s  special  treat  for  my  dad  as  he  was  growing  up 
in  Minnesota. 


Lori  Fleischacker  Copeland 


Desserts  329 


In  1996,  when  International 
Minister  Highson  Gondwe  first 
came  to  MPPC,  Lydia  Pharr 
(then  age  13)  brought  a 
wonderful  apple  pie  to  the 
Tuckers '  house  as  a  welcome 
gift.  Highson 's  first  bite  of 
American  food  was  Lydia 's 
apple  pie.  Since  that  visit,  in 
each  of  Highson 's  letters  to  us, 
he  sends  greetings  to  Lydia,  the 
apple  pie  lady.   When  Highson 
came  here  for  his  second  visit  in 
1998,  his  first  request  was  for 
Lydia 's  apple  pie.  She  came 
through  again! 

Julie  Tucker 


Angel  Pecan  Pie 


Serves  Seven  to  Eight 


3  egg  whites 

1  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla,  divided 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  made 

from  crisp  round  crackers 


Wi  cups  chopped  pecans,  divided 

1  cup  whipping  cream 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

lA  teaspoon  almond  flavoring 


Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Add  1  cup  sugar  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  1 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Fold  in  cracker  crumbs  and  1  cup  pecans.  Spoon  mixture 
into  8-inch  pie  pan  and  form  a  shell.  Make  peaks  around  edges.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Cool.  Whip  cream  until  smooth  and  shiny. 
Add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  almond  flavoring.  Spoon 
into  cooked  pie  shell.  Sprinkle  remaining  nuts  on  top. 


Mary  Lou  Lindsey 


Lydia  Pharr's  Apple  Pie 


Yields  1  Pie 


3A  cup  brown  sugar 
3A  cup  granulated  sugar 
4  tablespoons  flour 
lA  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  apples,  peeled  and  sliced 


2  apples,  unpeeled  and  sliced 

2  frozen  pie  crusts  (use  1  for 

lattice  top) 

3  tablespoons  butter 


Mix  first  4  ingredients.  Add  apples  and  stir  well.  Pour  apple  mixture  into 
pie  crust.  Cut  lattice  strips  out  of  second  pie  crust.  Place  strips  on  top  of 
pie  and  seal  edges.  Dot  with  butter.  Place  on  lowest  rack  in  oven  and  bake 
at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Julie  Tucker 


330  Desserts 


Chess  Pie 

Yields  i  Pie 

lA  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

Vi  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  eggs 

3  tablespoons  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  teaspoons  flour 

1  unbaked  pie  crust 

Melt  butter.  Add  all  other 
ingredients,  except  flour,  to 
butter  and  mix  until  well 
blended.  Sift  in  flour,  stirring 
or  whisking  to  avoid  lumps. 
Pour  into  pie  crust  and  bake 
at  325  degrees  for  40  to  45 
minutes. 

For  careful  cholesterol 

watchers,  I  use  Vi  cup 

margarine  and  "egg 

beaters  ".   Works  perfectly. 

Betsy  White 


Blueberry  Peach  Pie 
With  Streusel  Crumb  Topping 


1  ready  made  folded  pie  crust 

1  pound  fresh  peaches,  about  4 

2  cups  fresh  blueberries 
Vi  cup  sugar 

3Vi  tablespoons  instant  or 
minute  tapioca 


Streusel  Crumb  Topping: 
%  cup  all-purpose  flour 
Vi  cup  sugar 
Vi  cup  lightly  salted  butter 


Put  pie  crust  into  pie  dish.  Peel,  pit  and  cut  peaches  into  slices  about  Vi  inch 
thick.  Wash,  drain  and  sort  blueberries.  In  a  large  bowl,  toss  fruit  together 
with  the  sugar  and  tapioca  until  well  coated.  Let  stand  at  room  temperature 
for  15  minutes.  Turn  fruit  mixture  into  pie  crust.  To  make  topping, 
combine  flour,  sugar  and  butter  until  mixture  has  the  texture  of  coarse 
crumbs.  Sprinkle  evenly  over  fruit.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  50  to  60 
minutes. 


This  is  wonderful!  The  topping  makes  it. 


Beth  Neale 


Southern  Sour  Cream  Blueberry  Pie 


Yields  2  Pies 


16  ounces  sour  cream 

4  tablespoons  plain  flour 

V/i  cups  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla  extract 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

2  unbaked  deep-dish  pie  crusts 


1  pint  fresh  or  16  ounces  frozen 
blueberries 

Topping: 

8  tablespoons  plain  flour 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  cup  chopped  pecans  or  walnuts 


Combine  first  6  ingredients  and  mix  well  until  smooth.  Stir  in  blueberries 
by  hand  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  shells.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  25 
minutes.  While  pies  are  baking,  make  topping  by  combining  flour,  melted 
butter  and  pecans.  After  25  minutes,  remove  pies  from  oven  and  crumble 
topping  over  pies.  Return  pies  to  oven  and  bake  for  additional  10  minutes. 

L\nn  Mclver 


Desserts  331 


When  Tyler  Downing  came  to 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian  as 
Associate  Pastor  for  Youth  and 
Their  Families  in  1988,  he 
began  a  tradition  of  a  Chicken 
Pickin '  congregational  lunch  on 
Youth  Sunday  each  spring  to 
raise  funds  for  the  summer 
Youth  mission  trips.   Youth  and 
their  parents  worked  the  entire 
weekend  to  prepare  barbecued 
chicken  dinners  and  hundreds  of 
delicious  chess,  chocolate  chess 
and  pecan  pies. 

In  1995,  the  popular  fundraiser 
was  expanded  to  include  baking 
pies  the  weekend  before 
Thanksgiving.  Peter  Henry 
added  a  Friday  night  lock-in  to 
the  pie  baking  weekends  so  that 
youth  could  spend  more  time 
baking  to  help  meet  the 
increasing  demand.  And 
Jennifer  Ayres  continued  the  pie 
baking  tradition. 

Over  twelve  years  and  10,000 
pies  later,  hundreds  of  youth 
and  their  parents  have  happy 
memories  of  the  pie  baking 
tradition:  of  hours  in  the  kitchen 
measuring,  melting,  mixing, 
pouring,  baking,  boxing,  and 
tasting  (.'),  of  visits  from 
supportive  church  staff  and 
wide-eyed  Weekday  school 
children,  and  of  proudly 
delivering  pies  to  our  church 
family. 

Barbara  Atkins 


Chess  Pie 


Yields  10  Pies 


5  cups  margarine,  melted 
15  cups  sugar 
30  eggs 


Vi  cup  vinegar 
lA  cup  lemon  juice 
10  pie  crusts 


Melt  margarine  over  medium  heat;  gradually  add  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Continue  to  cook  over  low  heat  until  the  sugar  is  blended  into  the 
margarine.  Cool  slightly.  Pour  into  mixing  bowl  and  on  low  speed,  add  the 
eggs.  Blend.  Add  vinegar  and  lemon  last.  Pour  into  pie  shells 
immediately.  This  mix  does  not  keep  well.  Bake  at  325  degrees  in 
convection  oven  for  about  30  minutes.  These  pies  are  done  when  they  no 
longer  "jiggle"  .  .  .  you'll  just  have  to  watch  them  and  know  when  they're 
done.  Bake  pies  on  baking  sheet,  not  directly  on  racks. 


This  recipe  is  not  hard  to  do,  but  it  does  not  do  well  if  it  is  doubled, 
sugar  doesn  't  mix  quite  right. 


the 


Tyler  Downing,  Former  Associate  Pastor 

Chocolate  Chess  Pie 


Yields  8  Pies 


6V2  cups  margarine,  melted 
3%  cups  cocoa 
10  cups  sugar 


20  eggs 

Va  cup  vanilla 

8  pie  crusts 


Melt  margarine  and  pour  into  large  mixing  bowl.  Add  sugar,  cocoa,  eggs 
and  vanilla.    Mix  until  well  blended.  Pour  into  pie  crusts  within  a  half  hour 
because  this  mix  will  begin  to  thicken  and  become  difficult  to  manage. 
These  are  the  most  difficult  to  bake  .  .  .  they  easily  over  or  under  cook.  .  . 
they  take  about  30  to  45  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Make  sure  to  mix  this  on  low  speed  or  you  '11  be  covered  in  chocolate! 

Tyler  Downing,  Former  Associate  Pastor 


332  Desserts 


This  recipe  is  the  most  used 
recipe  in  my  recipe  box.   The 
recipe  card  is  torn,  has  vanilla 
stains  on  it,  and  a  personal 
comment  written  on  front  of  the 
card  by  Meg  when  she  was 
about  12  years  old:  "Um-um 
good. " 

Maggie  Peery 


Chocolate  Chess  Pie 


Sen'es  Eight 


Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 
'  ■<  cup  milk 
'/» cup  cocoa 
3  eggs,  beaten 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1V4  cups  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt 

9-inch  deep  dish  Pet-Ritz  pie  crust 


Combine  butter,  milk  and  cocoa  in  saucepan.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring 
until  butter  is  melted  and  cocoa  is  dissolved.  Remove  from  heat.  Add 
beaten  eggs  to  chocolate  mixture.  Add  vanilla,  sugar  and  salt  and  mix  until 
blended  well.  Pour  into  partially  baked  pie  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
30  to  40  minutes. 

This  is  a  family  favorite,  especially  for  Pete.  It  is  a  quick,  yummy  crowd 

pleaser  for  family  or  church  gatherings.  A  scoop  of  vanilla  frozen  yogurt  is 

a  great  topper  for  this  pie. 

Maggie  Peery,  Former  Associate  Pastor 

Beezy's  Milk  Chocolate  Pie 


Serves  Eight  or  Sixteen 


3  eggs 

Vi  cup  melted  butter 

3  heaping  tablespoons  cocoa 

V/>  cups  sugar 


Vi  cup  sour  cream 

1  deep  dish  pie  crust,  or  2  regular 

pie  crusts 
Whipped  cream  for  garnish 


Beat  first  5  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  crust.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes  or  until  done.  Refrigerate.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Claire  Buie 


Desserts  333 


Brownie  Pie 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 

Vi  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

V2  cup  sifted  flour 

1  square  Baker's  unsweetened 

chocolate 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Chopped  pecans  (optional) 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  in 
microwave.  Add  sugar  and 
eggs  and  mix  well.  Add  flour 
and  vanilla  and  mix  well. 
Add  pecans  if  desired.  Put 
mixture  in  greased  pie  pan. 
Bake  at  325  degrees  for  25 
minutes.  For  a  chewier  pie, 
bake  1 0  to  15  minutes  more 
or  until  toothpick  comes  out 
clean. 

Serve  with  ice  cream  and/or 
raspberry  sauce  or  just  plain! 

Kathryn  Goode  Sherard 


Chocolate  Silk  Pie 


Vi  cup  butter 

%  cups  sugar 

1  ounce  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Pinch  of  salt 

Vi  cup  Egg  Beaters  (equivalent 

of  2  eggs) 
1  8-inch  baked  pie  crust 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Melt  chocolate.  Cool  and  add  to  sugar.  Add 
vanilla  and  salt.  Add  lA  cup  Egg  Beaters.  Beat  5  minutes.  Add  another  Va 
cup  Egg  Beaters.  Beat  5  minutes  more.  Pour  mixture  into  baked  pie  crust. 
Chill  4  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Use  electric  mixer  on  fastest 
speed  possible  for  light  and  fluffy  pie. 

Kathy  Dockery 

Mama  Sue's  Chocolate  Nut  Pies 


4  cups  sugar 

Vi  cup  unsweetened  cocoa 

3  tablespoons  flour 

6  eggs 

1  large  can  evaporated  milk 


1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Vi  package  Angel  Flake  coconut 

Vi  cup  margarine,  melted 

4  9-inch  Pet-Ritz  frozen  pie  crusts 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 


Combine  sugar,  cocoa  and  flour.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well.  Slowly  add  milk, 
vanilla  and  coconut.  Add  melted  margarine  last.  Pour  mixture  into  pie 
crusts.  Sprinkle  nuts  on  top.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  50  minutes.  Serve 
cold  or  warm  with  vanilla  ice  cream. 

/  received  this  recipe  from  my  grandmother,  Verda  Fayssoux.   We  bake 
these  pies  during  the  holidays  and  give  them  to  friends  and  neighbors. 

Kim  Cornelson 


334  Desserts 


Fudge  Pie 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 

Wi  cups  sugar 

4  tablespoons  cocoa 

■4  cup  butter,  melted 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1  (5-oz)  can  evaporated  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  unbaked  pie  crust 

Stir  ingredients  together  in 
the  order  listed.  Do  not  beat! 
Pour  into  unbaked  pie  crust. 
Bake  at  325  degrees  for  45  to 
50  minutes  until  middle  is 
done. 


This  pie  is  very  rich,  so  small 
servings  are  suitable. 

Debbie  Hartnett 


Cider  Pie 


Serves  Twelve  to  Sixteen 


10  eggs 

2  tablespoons  cider  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  vanilla 
iVi  cups  sugar 

3  tablespoons  flour 


1  cup  light  cream 

Wi  cups  unsalted  butter 

2  unbaked  deep  dish  pie  crusts 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 


Beat  eggs,  vinegar  and  vanilla  until  well  blended.  Mix  sugar  and  flour 
together;  add  to  egg  mixture.  Mix  until  smooth.  Add  cream  and  hot, 
melted  butter.  Pour  into  pie  crusts.  Sprinkle  pecans  on  top.  Bake  at  325 
degrees  for  45  minutes  or  until  set.  Insert  knife  through  center  of  pie  to  test 
-  if  it  comes  out  clean,  the  pie  is  done. 

This  is  an  easy  and  excellent  dessert  that  freezes  well.   The  recipe  came 

from  the  chef  at  Quail  Hollow  Country  Club  around  1975.  1  changed 

the  portions  of  vinegar  and  vanilla  from  his  original  recipe. 

Betty  Hechenbleikner 

Lemon  Pie 

Yields  1  Pie  or  12  Tarts 


3  eggs 
1  cup  sugar 
Juice  of  2  or  3  lemons 
(about  2/3  cup) 


1  tablespoon  cornmeal 
V*  cup  butter  or  margarine 
1  unbaked  pie  shell 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
until  "toothpick  shows  it  is  done". 

This  recipe  is  from  Mrs.  Tom  Glasgow's  1950' s  cookbook. 

Harriet  White 


Desserts  335 


Lemonade  Pie 

1  (12-oz)  can  frozen 

lemonade,  thawed 

2  cans  sweetened  condensed 

milk 
16  ounces  Cool  Whip 
2  graham  cracker  pie  crusts 

Mix  lemonade,  condensed 
milk,  and  Cool  Whip  together 
until  smooth.  Pour  into  2  pie 
shells.  Freeze  for  1  hour 
before  serving. 

Caroline  Simas 


Key  Lime  Pie 


Serves  Six 


Pie  Crust: 

V-A  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs 

lA  cup  sugar 

54  cup  melted  butter 
Filling: 

4  eggs,  separated 

1  can  sweetened  condensed  milk 


Ys  cup  key  lime  juice 

2  teaspoons  grated  lime  peel 
Green  food  coloring 

Meringue: 

3  egg  whites 

Vi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
V2  cup  sugar 


Combine  crust  ingredients  and  press  into  pie  plate.  Set  aside.  Separate 
eggs.  Beat  one  egg  white  until  stiff  and  set  aside.  Beat  egg  yolks. 
Combine  milk,  lime  juice,  lime  peel  and  food  coloring  and  stir  into  egg 
yolks.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  white.  Turn  into  pie  crust. 

Meringue:  Beat  egg  whites  with  cream  of  tartar  until  frothy.  Gradually  add 
sugar,  beating  until  stiff  peaks  form.  Spread  on  top  of  pie  filling,  sealing 
edges.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Cool  to  room  temperature  and 
then  chill. 

Elizabeth  Morrow 

Key  Lime  Pie 


1  can  sweetened  condensed  milk 

2  eggs,  separated  (save  whites  for 

meringue  top) 
8  ounces  cream  cheese 


Vi  cup  fresh  lime  juice,  key  lime  if 

possible  (about  4  to  5  limes) 
1  graham  cracker  pie  crust 
Sugar  for  meringue 


Mix  condensed  milk,  egg  yolks  and  cream  cheese.  Add  lime  juice  slowly 
into  mixture.  Pour  into  graham  cracker  piecrust.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff, 
adding  sugar  slowly  and  to  taste.  Spread  meringue  on  top  of  pie.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  until  browned. 


So  easy  and  you  will  get  raves! 


Janet  Prexer  Nelson 


336  Desserts 


Million 
Dollar  Pie 

1  can  sweetened  condensed 

milk 
16  ounces  Cool  Whip 
1  can  crushed  pineapple, 

Drained 
1  cup  chopped  pecans 
Vi  cup  coconut 
lA  cup  lemon  juice 
1  graham  cracker  pie  crust 

Mix  first  6  ingredients 
together  thoroughly  and  pour 
into  graham  cracker  crust. 
Chill  overnight. 

Cindy  Faulk,  staff 


Pawley's  Island  Pie 


1  cup  granulated  sugar 
Vi  cup  all-purpose  flour 

2  large  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 


Vi  cup  butter,  melted  and  cooled 
1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
6  ounces  chocolate  chips 
1  unbaked  10-inch  pie  crust 


In  a  large  mixing  bowl,  combine  sugar,  flour,  eggs  and  vanilla  and  stir  until 
well  blended.  Add  butter  and  stir  until  completely  incorporated  and 
smooth.  Add  walnuts  and  chocolate  chips.  Stir  until  well  distributed. 
Scrape  the  batter  into  the  pie  crust  and  bake  about  30  minutes,  until  golden 
brown  and  set  in  the  middle.  Let  pie  cool  completely  before  serving. 


Delicious  sen'ed  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 


Betty  Heeseman 


Fresh  Peach  Chiffon  Pie 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


Wi  cups  chopped  fresh  peaches 

34  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  unflavored  gelatin 

V4  cup  cold  water 

lA  cup  hot  water 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 


Dash  of  salt 

Vi  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped  or 

1  cup  Cool  Whip  Free 
1  9-inch  graham  cracker  crust 
Peach  slices  for  garnish 
Cool  Whip  for  garnish 


Mix  sugar  and  chopped  peaches;  let  stand  for  30  minutes.  Soften  gelatin  in 
cold  water;  dissolve  in  hot  water.  Cool;  add  peach  mixture,  lemon  juice  and 
salt.  Chill  until  partially  set.  Fold  in  whipped  cream  or  Cool  Whip.  Pour 
into  graham  cracker  crust.  Chill  thoroughly.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream 
or  Cool  Whip  and  peach  slices. 

A  delicious  cool  summer  dessert.  A  Lexington,  KY  friend,  "Peachie  " 
Fergus,  gave  me  this  recipe  in  1955.  It  has  stood  the  test  of  time! 

Joan  Tucker 


Desserts  337 


When  I  lead  mission  trips,  I 
particularly  enjoy  watching 
youth  prepare  common  meals 
for  the  larger  group.  Most  kids 
come  to  the  task  with  only  a 
rough  idea  of  how  to  cook. 
Then  Peter  Hemy  points  at  a 
kitchen  and  a  menu  and  says, 
"Your  small  group  is  cooking 
dinner  for  tonight."  In  1998 
when  some  twenty  freshmen  and 
sophomores  were  in  Oregon  on 
a  high  school  mission  trip,  the 
director  of  Portland  Learning 
Outreach  and  Worship  had 
prepared  a  simple  menu  of 
spaghetti  for  the  first  night.  I 
arrived  at  the  church  kitchen 
close  to  serving  time  and  saw 
some  frantic  activity  and  a 
young  man  bounding  out  to 
greet  me  with:  "Peter,  how  do 
we  cook  spaghetti?  We  burned 
it  the  first  time  and  need  to  do 
more.'"  Until  then  I  hadn  't 
known  it  was  possible  to  burn 
spaghetti,  but  on  that  mission 
trip  I  knew  that  future  spouses 
would  thank  me  for  allowing 
their  mates  to  be  better 
prepared  to  cook.   While  we  did 
not  do  most  of  our  cooking  in 
Nicaragua,  food  came  to  be  a 
center  point  for  our  common  life 
with  each  other  and  the 
Nicaraguans  with  whom  we 
worked.  That  makes  sense,  for 
in  Christian  circles  we  often 
speak  of  breaking  bread 
together—or  beans  and  rice. 

Peter  Henry 


Peach  Pie 


Yields  1  Pie 


Pie  Pastry: 
2  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 
2/3  cup  shortening 
4  tablespoons  water 


Peach  Filling: 

4  cups  sliced  peaches 

'4  cup  minute  tapioca 

%  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Butter 


Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Cut  shortening  into  flour  with  pastry  blender  or 
fork  until  the  dough  is  crumbly.  Gradually  add  water  a  little  at  a  time  using 
just  enough  to  make  it  hold  together.  The  less  water  you  use,  the  tenderer 
the  pastry. 

Mix  fruit,  tapioca,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Let  stand  15  minutes. 

Divide  dough  in  half  and  roll  one  half  on  floured  board.  Place  in  pie  plate. 
Add  fruit  mixture.  Dot  fruit  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Roll  out  top  crust 
and  place  over  fruit,  covering  entire  pie.  Seal  and  flute  edges  of  crust.  Cut 
several  slits  to  permit  steam  to  escape.  Brush  lightly  with  milk  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  40  minutes. 

/  bake  these  pies  at  375  degrees  on  the  top  shelf  of  the  oven  for  20  minutes, 
then  move  them  to  the  bottom  shelf  for  the  last  20  minutes. 

Trudy  Mills 


338  Desserts 


How  could  a  former  Youth 
Minister  not  submit  a  pie 
recipe?  This  is  the  pecan  pie 
that  I  wanted  to  make  for  MP  PC 
members  but  there  is  no  way  we 
could  afford  it.  But  wow!  I'm 
sure  Southerners  would 
question  whether  or  not  a 
Northern  woman  like  my  mom 
could  cook  "pe-cahn  "  or  "pe- 
can "  pies,  but  she  can.  The 
Smiths  grew  up  poor,  but  they 
always  had  great  homemade 
pies  and  eve  ty  one  had  'A  of  a 
pie  for  dessert.  Big  portions  for 
a  dairy  farm  family ! 

Peter  Henry 


Pecan  Pie 


8  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 

lA  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  dark  corn  syrup 


5  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

6  cups  pecans 

3  9-inch  deep  dish  piecrusts 


Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees.  Beat  eggs  until  blended  but  not  frothy.  Add 
sugar,  salt  and  corn  syrup.  Add  cooled,  melted  butter  and  vanilla,  mixing 
just  enough  to  blend.  Spread  2  cups  pecans  in  bottom  of  each  piecrust. 
Pour  in  filling.  Place  pies  in  oven  and  immediately  reduce  heat  to  325 
degrees.  Bake  50  to  60  minutes.  These  pies  freeze  really  well. 

Peter  Henry,  Former  Associate  Pastor 


Pecan  Chiffon  Pie 


1  tablespoon  plain  gelatin, 
dissolved  in  XA  cup  water 
4  egg  yolks,  strained 
Vi  cup  sugar 
3A  cup  milk 
Pinch  salt 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vi  cup  chopped  pecans,  toasted 

4  egg  whites 

Vi  cup  sugar 

1  baked  pie  shell 


Dissolve  gelatin  in  water.  Make  custard  in  top  of  double  boiler  with  egg 
yolks,  sugar  and  milk.  Cook  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Add  salt  and 
gelatin  and  remove  from  stove.  Cool.  Add  vanilla  and  pecans.  Beat  egg 
whites  until  stiff,  gradually  adding  Vi  cup  sugar.  Beat  well.  Fold  into 
custard  mixture.  Pour  into  baked  piecrust.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve. 

This  was  a  favorite  family  dessert  when  I  was  growing  up  in  Laurinburg.  It 
was  served  on  many  special  occasions. 

Dixon  McGuire 


Desserts  339 


To  Cook  Fresh 
Pumpkin: 

*■  Wash  medium-sized 
light-colored  pumpkin. 
Cut  in  half  and  scoop  out 
seeds  and  strings.  Turn 
each  half  cut  side  down 
on  cookie  sheet  with 
sides.  Bake  1  hour  or 
until  soft.  Cool,  then 
scoop  out  pumpkin. 
Mash  or  puree  in  blender. 
Drain  in  colander.  Freeze 
in  1  '/2-cup  portions  in 
small  freezer  bags. 

Linda  Wallace 


Peanut  Butter  Pie 


Yields  3  Pies 


8  ounces  cream  cheese 

%  cup  peanut  butter 

2  cups  10X  confectioners  sugar 

1  cup  milk 


8  ounces  Cool  Whip 
3  graham  cracker  pie  crusts 
Chopped  nuts  (optional) 
Chocolate  syrup  (optional) 


Combine  cream  cheese,  peanut  butter  and  confectioners  sugar  and  mix  well. 
Add  milk.  Blend  in  Cool  Whip.  Pour  mixture  into  3  graham  cracker  crusts. 
Sprinkle  nuts  on  top,  if  desired.  Freeze.  Top  with  chocolate  syrup  before 
serving,  if  desired. 

Ellie  Crowe 


Pumpkin  Pie 


Yields  1  Pie 


%  cup  brown  sugar 
V*  cup  white  sugar 
2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Vi  teaspoon  ginger 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Wi  cups  fresh  pumpkin, 

mashed  or  pureed 
VA  cups  half-and-half 
1  unbaked  pie  crust 


Using  electric  mixer,  mix  sugar  and  eggs  together  in  large  bowl.  Add 
cinnamon,  ginger,  and  salt.  Mix  in  fresh  pumpkin.  Mix  in  half-and-half. 
Pour  into  unbaked  pie  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

This  family  recipe  has  been  passed  down  through  at  least  four  generations 

and  has  become  a  favorite  tradition  at  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas.   We 

sen>e  it  warm  with  butter  on  top. 

Linda  Wallace 


340  Desserts 


Thank  God  for  35  years  of 
MPPC  memories:  Dear,  dear 
Eleanor  Belk-honestly,  I  never 
saw  her  frown—and  her 
meaningful  explanation  of  our 
stained  glass  windows.  Hugh 
McManaway,  making  rhymes 
and  whistling  perfect  tunes  to 
the  hymns  we  sang.  His 
directing  traffic  at  Queens  and 
Providence  never  bothered  us, 
and  we  were  always  delighted 
when  he  walked  down  to  our 
house  for  a  visit.  Our  daughter 
Susan  was  married--red 
dresses,  poinsettias,  candles— by 
Randy  Taylor  to  Doug 
Minnerly,  now  a  Presbyterian 
minister  in  West  Virginia:  and 
they  adopted  a  beautiful  little 
orphan  from  Romania.  I  found 
my  "niche  "  when  we  had  a 
large  peacemaking  council  in 
the  '80s.  David  and  I  enjoyed 
Montreal  meetings  at  which  we 
learned  so  much  about  our 
world.  It  was  special  to  go  with 
Tyler  Downing  on  a  mission  trip 
to  New  York,  where  we  spent 
time  at  the  United  Nations  and 
the  youth  helped  feed  people  at 
the  Bowery.  Mission  trips  are 
so  important,  as  is  the 
International  Minister  program; 
David  and  I  have  enjoyed 
sen'ing  on  that  committee.   We 
love  our  church  and  especially 
getting  to  know  so  many  of  its 
wonderful  members. 

Margaret  Marrash 


Gran  Gran's  Strawberry  Pie 


Yields  2  Pies 


3  pints  fresh  strawberries 

2  cups  sugar 

6  tablespoons  cornstarch 


2  unbaked  pie  shells 
1  pint  whipping  cream  or 
Cool  Whip 


Wash  strawberries  thoroughly  and  remove  stems.  Mash  Vi  of  the  berries. 
Combine  sugar  and  cornstarch  and  stir  into  mashed  berries.  Let  stand  while 
you  bake  pie  shells  according  to  package  directions.  Place  remaining  whole 
berries  in  bottom  of  cooled  pie  shells.  Cook  the  mashed  berries,  sugar  and 
cornstarch  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  sauce  is  thickened 
and  juice  is  translucent.  Pour  mixture  into  pie  shells.  Place  in  refrigerator 
for  at  least  2  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  spread  whipped  cream  on  top. 

We  can 't  wait  until  local  strawberries  come  in  May  for  Mother  to  make  her 

pies.  She  seems  to  have  a  special  touch.  Mother  is  Eva  Whitsett,  a  member 

of  MPPC  since  1955. 

Betty  Whitsett  Bridges 

Sugar-Free  Strawberry  Pie 

Yields  1  Pie 


1  box  sugar-free  vanilla  pudding 

1  box  sugar-free  strawberry  Jello 

2  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 


1  cup  Cool  Whip 

1  cup  sliced  fresh  strawberries 

1  pre-cooked  piecrust 


Combine  first  3  ingredients  and  bring  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
lemon  juice.  Cool  completely.  Add  sliced  berries  and  Cool  Whip.  Pour 
mixture  in  baked  piecrust.  Place  in  refrigerator  to  set.  When  ready  to  serve, 
decorate  with  dollops  of  Cool  Whip  and  whole  berries.  Peaches  and  other 
berries  and  bananas  may  be  substituted  with  appropriate  Jello. 

This  pie  is  almost  calorie-free.  I  have  served  it  to  non-diabetics 
as  well  as  diabetics. 

Margaret  Marrash 


Desserts  341 


Grandmother 

Hartness' 

Vinegar  Pie 

Yields  2  Pies 

5  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

6  to  8  tablespoons  vinegar 
2  pie  crusts 

Using  electric  mixer,  beat 
eggs  well.  Gradually  beat  in 
sugar.  Add  melted  butter  and 
vinegar.  Pour  into  pie  crusts. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35 
minutes  or  until  set. 

Gail  Brinn  Wilkins 


S  &  W's  Fabulous  Custard  Pie 


Yields  1  Pie 


V/i  cups  sugar 
2  tablespoons  butter 
'/2  teaspoon  salt 
4  large  eggs,  beaten 


2  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  unbaked  pie  crust 


In  mixing  bowl,  combine  sugar,  butter  and  salt  and  beat  with  electric  mixer 
until  smooth.  Add  eggs  and  mix  until  well  blended.  Add  milk  and  vanilla 
and  beat  until  smooth.  Pour  mixture  into  piecrust.  Flute  crust  high  around 
edges.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  350  degrees. 
Bake  about  12  to  15  minutes  more,  until  pie  begins  to  set  around  edges  and 
middle  is  still  a  little  "jiggly".  Cool  and  then  refrigerate. 

Those  who  remember  the  S  &  W  Cafeteria  on  Trade  Street  near  the  Square 

will  always  remember  the  gracious  She rrill  family  and  Tap  Price,  their 

good  friend,  who  made  this  a  wonderful  family  dining  experience.   You  'II 

remember  the  ole'  time  scale  at  the  front,  where  as  children,  of  course,  we 

would  hop  on  the  scales  to  see  our  correct  weight.   Today,  we  wouldn  't 

dare  hop  on  those  scales!  My,  but  I  long  for  another  S  &  W. 

Betty  Dale  Pre s sly  Archer 

Fruit  Cobbler 


4  ounces  butter 

4  cups  fresh  berries,  peaches  or 

other  fruit 
Vi  cup  juice  or  water 


1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  self-rising  flour 

1  cup  milk 


Melt  butter  in  baking  dish.  Combine  fresh  fruit  of  choice  and  juice  or  water 
in  saucepan  and  bring  to  boil.  Mix  together  sugar,  flour  and  milk  and  pour 
into  hot,  melted  butter.  DO  NOT  STIR.  Add  hot  fruit  and  juice.  DO  NOT 
STIR.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour. 

Virginia  Davis 


342   Desserts 


Apple  Crisp 

6  large  apples  (preferably 
Granny  Smith) 

1  cup  sugar 
}A  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
Vi  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
W  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Peel  and  chop  apples. 
Sprinkle  lemon  juice  over 
apples.  Combine  flour, 
sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
butter  and  mix  by  hand  or 
with  food  processor  until 
mixture  resembles  coarse 
crumbs.  Spread  over 
chopped  apples.  Bake  at  375 
degrees  for  1  hour. 

A  family  favorite. 

Nancy  Goolsby 


Mama  Kate's  Peach  Crisp 


Sen'es  Six  to  Eight 


3A  cup  flour 
1  cup  sugar 
Vi  cup  butter 


Fresh  sliced  peaches  or  sliced 

apples  and  raisins 
Ground  cinnamon 


Sift  flour  and  sugar  together.  Sprinkle  over  butter  and  mix  with  pastry 
blender  until  mixture  resembles  pea-sized  lumps.  Place  fruit  in  l'/2-quart 
glass  baking  dish  and  cover  with  flour  mixture.  Dust  generously  with 
cinnamon.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until  bubbly  and  top  is  browned. 

Could  be  called  "No  Left-Over  Peach  Crisp. " 

DeeDee  and  Peter  McKay 

Peach  Cobbler 

Serves  Eight 


3  or  4  cups  fresh  peaches,  peeled 

and  sliced 
V*  cup  sugar 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 


1  cup  sugar 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring 


Butter  a  round  2-quart  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  all  over  with  lA  cup  sugar. 
Place  peaches  into  dish  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Cream 
butter,  1  cup  sugar,  egg,  flour  and  almond  extract.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  over 
peaches.  Bake  for  an  additional  50  minutes.  Serve  warm  with  ice  cream  or 
whipped  cream. 

Margaret  Stukes 


Desserts  343 


Almond 
Squares 

3  eggs,  beaten 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour 

Vi  cup  butter,  melted 

Vi  cup  butter 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  sliced  almonds 

1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  milk 

Mix  eggs,  sugar,  flour  and 
butter.  Press  into  9x1 3-inch 
pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
30  minutes.  Meanwhile  mix 
remaining  butter,  sugar, 
almonds,  flour  and  milk  and 
cook  over  low  heat  until 
thickened.  Pour  over  pastry 
and  broil  until  lightly 
browned. 

Anne  McCoy 


Almond  Crusted  Bars 


Yields  30  Bars 


VA  cups  all-purpose  flour 
IV2  cups  sugar 

Vi  cup  unsalted  butter,  melted 
2  large  eggs,  slightly  beaten 


V«  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  almond  extract 

1  cup  sliced  almonds 


Mix  flour  and  sugar.  Add  melted  butter.  Add  eggs,  salt  and  almond 
extract.  Spread  mixture  into  lightly  greased  9x1 2-inch  pan.  Sprinkle 
almonds  over  top  and  press  into  batter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  20 
minutes,  until  light  browned.  Do  not  over  bake.  Cool  slightly  and  slice  into 
bars.  For  thinner,  crispier  bars  spread  batter  onto  jellyroll  pan  and  reduce 
baking  time. 

Easy  and  yummy. 

Nancy  Elberson 

Butterscotch  Bars 


%  cup  butter 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  packed 
2  large  eggs  at  room  temperature 
2  cups  all-purpose  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
lA  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 


Melt  butter  over  low  heat.  Remove  from  heat;  and  stir  in  sugar  and  eggs. 
Mix  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Stir  into  butter  and  sugar 
mixture.  Spread  into  a  well-greased  and  floured  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes  if  using  glass  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes  if  using  metal  pan.  Do  not  over  bake. 

Lib  Stroup 


344  Desserts 


Mother's 
Butterscotch  Brownies 

Yields  25  to  30  Brownies 

%  cup  butter  2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

1  pound  light  or  dark  brown  sugar      2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Melt  butter  and  add  brown  sugar.  Beat  eggs  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar. 
Add  vanilla.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add  to  creamed 
mixture.  Stir  in  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  well-greased  9x1 3-inch  pan  at  350 
degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Delicious! 

My  mother,  Mrs.  H.  W.  McKay,  wife  of  Dr.  Hamilton  W.  McKay, 
was  a  charter  member  ofMPPC. 

Kat  Belk 

Christmas  Fruit  Bars 

Yields  4  Dozen 

Vi  cup  butter,  softened  1  cup  unsifted  all-purpose  flour 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  firmly  2  cups  coarsely  chopped  pecans 

packed  6  slices  candied  pineapple, 

2  eggs  chopped 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Vi  pound  red  and  green  candied 

Pinch  of  salt  cherries,  chopped 

In  large  bowl,  beat  butter  with  sugar  until  fluffy,  using  electric  mixer  at  high 
speed.  Add  eggs  and  beat  until  light.  Add  vanilla  and  salt.  At  low  speed, 
add  flour  until  well  blended.  Grease  and  flour  2  1  Ix7x2-inch  pans. 
Sprinkle  1  cup  nuts  in  each  pan.  Drop  batter  on  nuts;  spread  evenly  over 
nuts.  Press  candied  pineapple  and  cherries  into  batter.  Bake  at  300  degrees 
for  30  to  40  minutes,  or  until  golden.  Remove  to  wire  rack.  Cut  into 
squares  while  warm. 

Lib  St  roup 

Desserts  345 


Dessert 
Squares 

IV2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  margarine 
4  eggs 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
1  can  pie  filling 
Confectioners  sugar 

Cream  sugar  and  margarine 
in  large  bowl  until  light  and 
fluffy.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a 
time  and  beat  well.  Add 
flour  and  lemon  juice.  Pour 
batter  into  greased  15x1  fl- 
inch pan.  Drop  spoonfuls  of 
pie  filling  on  top.  Bake  at 
325  degrees  for  40  to  50 
minutes.  When  cool,  sprinkle 
with  confectioners  sugar. 
Cut  into  squares  to  serve. 

Jetta  Gill 


Coffee  Bars 


1  cup  golden  raisins 
%  cup  strong  coffee 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
%  cup  shortening 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

IV2  cups  all-purpose  flour 


Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder 
V*  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  nuts  (optional) 
Coffee  Glaze: 

Strong  coffee 

IV2  cups  confectioners  sugar 


Combine  raisins,  coffee  and  cinnamon.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Cream 
shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  creamed 
mixture.  Stir  in  raisin  mixture.  Spread  batter  in  greased  10x1 5-inch  pan. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  about  25  minutes  or  more.  While  warm,  spread  with 
coffee  glaze.  Cut  bars  when  cool. 

Coffee  Glaze:  Add  enough  strong  coffee  to  P/2  cups  confectioners  sugar  for 
spreading  consistency. 

Someone  gave  this  recipe  to  me  when  I  lived  in  Maryland.   Try  them  in  the 
winter  while  sitting  by  the  fire  with  hot  coffee  or  tea. 

Margaret  Marrash 

Grandma  Edith's  Toffee  Bars 


1  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  egg  yolk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


2  cups  flour 

1  pound  Hershey  milk 

chocolate  bar 
Chopped  nuts 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolk  and  beat  again.  Add  vanilla  and 
flour.  Pat  into  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  15  to  20 
minutes.  Melt  Hershey  bar  in  double  boiler  over  boiling  water.  Spread 
melted  chocolate  over  baked  dough.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts.  Cut  into 
small  squares  while  still  warm. 

Carol  Robertson 


346  Desserts 


Crispy  Peanut  Butter  Treats 

Yields  3  Dozen 

12  ounces  semi-sweet  chocolate  10  ounces  peanut  butter  chips 

chips  3  tablespoons  water 

%  cup  peanut  butter  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

7  cups  Rice  Krispies  1  cup  confectioners  sugar 
Va  cup  butter  or  margarine 

In  large  microwave-safe  bowl,  heat  chocolate  chips  and  peanut  butter, 
uncovered,  on  high  for  1  minute.  Stir.  Microwave  30  to  45  seconds  longer 
or  until  chips  are  melted;  stir  until  smooth.  Stir  in  cereal  until  evenly 
coated.  Pat  half  of  mixture  into  a  greased  9x  13-inch  pan.  In  microwave- 
safe  bowl,  heat  peanut  butter  chips  and  butter  on  high  for  1  minute.  Stir. 
Microwave  10  to  20  seconds  longer  or  until  chips  are  melted.  Stir  until 
smooth.  Stir  in  water,  vanilla  and  confectioners  sugar.  Carefully  spread 
over  cereal  layer.  Press  remaining  cereal  mixture  over  peanut  butter  layer. 
Cover  and  chill  for  at  least  one  hour.  Cut  into  squares. 

This  recipe  was  first  served  at  the  home  rented  for  the  Singles  Group 

at  Montreat  in  1999.  It  was  a  huge  hit.  We  put  the  pan  out  at  10  p.m. 

and  it  was  emptied  by  morning.   They  have  been  requested 

multiple  times  since  that  trip. 

Tammy  Pereboom 


Desserts  347 


Grandmother  Menold's 
Chocolate  Crunchies 


Vz  cup  butter 

2  cups  brown  sugar 

3  eggs 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

12  ounces  semi-sweet  chocolate 

chips 
Vi  cup  chopped  walnuts  (optional) 


Cream  together  butter  and  brown  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla  and  mix 
well.  Add  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Stir  in  chocolate  chips  and  nuts  if 
desired.  Mix  together  thoroughly.  Using  Crisco  (not  butter  or  margarine), 
grease  and  flour  a  9x9x2-inch  pan.  (This  step  may  be  omitted  if  using  a 
non-stick  pan).  Pour  batter  into  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes  or 
until  light  brown  on  top.  Cool  30  minutes;  cut  in  pan  while  warm.  Cool 
completely  before  removing  from  pan. 

These  have  been  thoroughly  enjoyed  by  the  International  Minister 
committee  and  the  2000  PNC. 

Wes  Kenney 


Hillbilly  Bars 


1  cup  water 

1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  margarine 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  allspice 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour 
Topping: 

%  cup  brown  sugar 
Va  cup  butter 
Vi  cup  coconut 


Combine  water,  raisins,  sugar,  margarine,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  salt  in 
saucepan.  Bring  to  boil.  Boil  1  minute.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  flour  and 
baking  soda.  Pour  batter  into  greased  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  15 
minutes.  Combine  topping  ingredients  in  saucepan.  Cook  until  butter  is 
melted  and  mixture  is  smooth.  Spread  topping  on  hot  cake.  Put  under 
broiler  until  bubbly  and  brown.  Let  cool  completely.  Cut  into  bars  or 
squares. 

Porter  Hayes,  Staff 


348  Desserts 


Habitat  Brownies 

Yields  24  Brownies 

4  (1-oz)  squares  semi-sweet  14  teaspoon  salt 
chocolate                                             Vi  teaspoon  almond  extract 

5  tablespoons  butter,  divided  Vi  cup  chopped  almonds 
3  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened  Almond  Icing: 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,  divided  Vi  cup  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips 

3  eggs,  divided  2  tablespoons  butter 

1 :  cup  plus  1  tablespoon  all-  3  tablespoons  milk 

purpose  flour  Vi  teaspoon  almond  extract 

IVi  teaspoons  vanilla,  divided  1  cup  confectioners  sugar 
VA  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Melt  chocolate  and  3  tablespoons  butter  in  saucepan  over  low  heat.  Set 
aside.  Mix  cream  cheese  with  remaining  2  tablespoons  butter  in  small 
bowl.  Slowly  add  Vi  cup  granulated  sugar,  blending  well.  Add  1  egg,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  and  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla.  Set  aside.  Beat  remaining  2  eggs 
and  remaining  %  cup  granulated  sugar  in  large  bowl  until  light.    Add 
baking  powder,  salt  and  remaining  V2  cup  flour.  Blend  in  chocolate 
mixture,  remaining  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  almond  extract.  Stir  in  almonds. 
Spread  half  of  chocolate  mixture  in  greased  8-inch  pan.  Cover  with  cream 
cheese  mixture.  Spoon  remaining  chocolate  mixture  over  top.  Swirl  with 
knife  to  create  marbled  effect.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes. 
Cool  brownies  5  minutes.  Spread  icing  over  top.  Cut  into  little  pieces. 

Almond  Icing:  Combine  chocolate  chips,  butter,  milk  and  almond  extract  in 
small  heavy  saucepan.  Add  confectioners  sugar.  Beat  until  glossy  and  easy 
to  spread.    Spread  icing  over  top  of  brownies. 

For  several  years,  under  the  direction  ofSaxby  Chaplin,  many  MPPC 

families  have  participated  in  the  Family  Habitat  House. 

I  make  these  brownies  for  the  kick-off  dinner  and 

I  always  take  home  an  empty  pan. 

Jane  Todd 


Desserts  349 


/  learned  the  literal  meaning  of 
the  phrase  "within  the  bell  toll" 
24  years  ago  as  I  walked  along 
the  walls  of  York,  England. 
Historically,  the  cathedral  was 
built  in  the  center  of  the  village, 
and  stone  walls  encircling  the 
town  protected  those  who  lived 
within  the  bell  toll.  In  October 
1982,  my  husband  Bill, 
daughter  Katherine,  (son 
Thomas  on  the  way)  and  I  came 
to  live  within  the  bell  toll  of 
Myers  Park  Presbyterian 
Church  when  we  moved  into  our 
home  at  1621  Beverly  Drive. 
Although  we  are  loyal  Myers 
Park  Methodists,  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church  has  played 
a  meaningful  role  in  our  lives. 
We  have  experienced  the  joy  of 
hearing  concerts  of  bells  from 
our  back  porch  on  late  Saturday 
afternoons,  the  call  to  worship 
for  19  years  and  the  Good  News 
each  Christmas  Eve  as  the  bells 
tolled  carols.   We  've  also 
picnicked  on  the  church 's  stone 
steps,  practiced  baseball  throws 
on  its  wide  lawn  and  watched 
brides  and  grooms.  I  once 
retrieved  our  dog  Nick  as  he 
teetered  on  the  church 's 
threshold,  prepared  to  join  a 
wedding  procession.  Just  like 
the  villagers  of  York,  1  feel  the 
protection  and  spiritual  strength 
of  this  church  and  am  thankful 
for  my  place  and  years  within 
its  bell  toll. 

Susan  Porter 


Lemon  Bars 


Yields  32  Bars 


1  cup  butter 

Vz  cup  confectioners  sugar 

2  cups  flour 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
4  tablespoons  lemon  rind 

(from  2  lemons) 
4  tablespoons  flour 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs,  beaten  well 

2  cups  sugar 
Confectioners  sugar  to  sprinkle 

on  top 


Mix  first  3  ingredients  together  as  you  would  for  a  pie  crust.  Spread  evenly 
on  bottom  of  ungreased  llx  13-inch  cookie  sheet  with  sides.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  12  to  15  minutes  until  slightly  brown.  Cool.  Beat  eggs  and  mix 
with  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  over  cooked  pastry.  Bake  at  325  degrees 
for  30  minutes,  or  until  mixture  is  set  or  firm  when  you  shake  the  pan. 
Sprinkle  with  confectioners  sugar.  Cool.  Cut  in  oblong  "finger"  shapes. 

Can  be  prepared  a  day  ahead  and  stored  in  the  refrigerator.   Great  for 

teenage  parties  or  college  students,  as  well  as  adult  parties 

or  covered  dish  dinners. 

Bee  Hubbard 

Lete's  Cheese  Brownies 


Vi  cup  butter 

1  box  Duncan  1  lines  #2  yellow 

cake  mix 
1  pound  4X  confectioners  sugar 


8  ounces  Philadelphia  cream 

cheese,  softened 
3  eggs 


With  your  hand,  crumble  butter  and  yellow  cake  mix  together.  Put  mixture 
into  greased  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Using  mixer,  blend  confectioners  sugar  and 
cream  cheese.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition. 
Spread  mixture  on  top  of  butter  mixture.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes. 

Nancx  Rankin 


350  Desserts 


ooey-gooey 
Bars 

Yields  30  Bars 

1  package  Duncan  Hines 

butter  cake  mix 
Vi  cup  butter 

1  egg,  slightly  beaten 

8  ounces  cream  cheese, 
softened 

2  eggs 

Vi  pound  confectioners  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  first  3  ingredients 
and  mix  well.  Press  into 
greased  9x1 3-inch  pan.  Beat 
together  cream  cheese,  eggs, 
confectioners  sugar  and 
vanilla.  Pour  mixture  over 
first  layer.  Bake  at  325 
degrees  for  40  minutes  or 
until  lightly  golden.  Cool 
and  cut  into  bars. 

Very  easy  and  delicious. 

Missy  Plyler 


Pumpkin  Tassies 


Yields  36  Tarts 


Vi  cup  butter,  softened 

3  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 

1  cup  all-purpose  flour 

Va  cup  packed  brown  sugar 

'/» teaspoon  salt 

'/» teaspoon  cinnamon 

Vs  teaspoon  nutmeg 


%  teaspoon  allspice 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 

%  cup  canned  pumpkin 

XA  teaspoon  rum  extract 

Vi  cup  frozen  whipped  topping, 

thawed 
Coarsely  chopped  pecans 


Blend  butter  and  cream  cheese.  Stir  in  flour.  Cover  and  chill  for  1  hour. 
On  lightly  floured  surface,  roll  dough  to  1/ie  -inch  thickness.  Cut  into  2V4  to 
2%-inch  rounds  with  cookie  cutter.  Pat  rounds  into  1%-inch  muffin  tins. 
Bake  at  400  degrees  for  10  minutes  until  golden  brown.  Cool  in  pans. 
Filling:  In  saucepan,  combine  brown  sugar,  salt,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
allspice.  Stir  in  eggs,  pumpkin  and  rum  extract.  Cook  and  stir  over  low 
heat  for  2  to  3  minutes  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat,  cover  and  chill 
thoroughly.  Fold  in  whipped  topping.  Pipe  or  spoon  filling  into  tart  shells. 
Top  with  pecans.  Freezes  well. 

Nancy  Elberson 

Scottish  Shortbread 


Yields  25  Squares 


1  cup  butter 

Vi  cup  confectioners  sugar 


2'/2  cups  all-purpose  flour 
Pinch  of  salt 


Using  electric  mixer  or  food  processor,  mix  all  ingredients  together.  Press 
dough  into  ungreased  9x9-inch  pan.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  35  minutes, 
until  light  golden  brown.  Cut  into  squares  while  warm. 

Very  easy,  but  very  good.    When  the  Scottish  students  came  to  Charlotte  and 
stayed  with  MPPC  members,  this  is  what  our  student,  Anna,  brought  us. 

Ann  Edgerton 
Desserts  351 


Superb  Chocolate  Cake  Brownies 


2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

2  cups  sugar 

3  tablespoons  cocoa 
1  cup  margarine 

1  cup  water 

Vi  cup  buttermilk 

2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 


Frosting: 
Vi  cup  butter 
3  tablespoons  cocoa 
6  tablespoons  milk 
1  box  10X  confectioners  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  chopped  nuts  (optional) 


Mix  together  flour,  sugar  and  cocoa.  Combine  margarine,  water  and 
buttermilk  and  bring  to  boil.  Add  flour  mixture.  In  a  separate  bowl,  use 
hand  mixer  and  beat  eggs,  vanilla  and  baking  soda.  Combine  both 
mixtures.  Pour  batter  into  greased  llxl  7-inch  jellyroll  pan.  Bake  at  400 
degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Cover  with  frosting. 

Frosting:  Melt  butter  in  saucepan.  Stir  in  cocoa  and  then  milk  and  and 
bring  to  boil,  stirring  frequently.  Add  confectioners  sugar,  vanilla  and  nuts, 
if  desired. 

I  begin  making  the  frosting  immediately  after  taking  the  brownies  out  of  the 

oven.  I  frost  them  and  then  let  them  cool  overnight  before  cutting  into  small 

squares  the  next  morning.  Do  not  cover  them  too  tightly  before  cutting; 

I  lay  a  loose  piece  of  foil  over  them. 

Trudy  Mills 


352  Desserts 


Oh,  how  the  songs  of  the  Billy 
Graham  Children 's  Choir  have 
stayed  in  my  heart:  "This  Little 
Light  of  Mine,  "  "Jesus  Put  the 
Song  in  My  Heart,  "  "God  Has  a 
Plan  for  My  Life-Ta  Da! " 

Anita  Zeigler 


After  the  Dance  Cookies 


Yields  2  or  3  Dozen 


2  cups  pecan  or  walnut  pieces 
1  cup  brown  sugar 


1  unbeaten  egg  white 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Cover  cookie  sheet  with  aluminum  foil.  Drop 
mixture  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  aluminum  foil.  Put  cookies  in  oven  preheated 
to  400  degrees.    Turn  oven  off  when  you  put  cookies  in.  Leave  cookies  in 
oven  at  least  3  or  4  hours,  or  overnight.  Do  not  peek!  Peel  cookies  off  foil 
and  store  in  cookie  tin. 

In  the  "olden  days  "  young  ladies  made  these  cookies  before  they  went  to  a 
dance.   When  they  returned  home,  the  cookies  were  ready. 


Jeanne  Hill 


Bigmama's  Oatmeal  Cookies 


Yields  2  Dozen 


Vi  cup  plus  6  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sugar,  sifted 

2  eggs,  sprinkled  with  salt 
2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 


2  cups  oatmeal 
1  cup  raisins 
Chopped  pecans,  to  taste 
Cinnamon  to  sprinkle 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Slightly  mix  2  eggs  in  separate  bowl  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Add  to  butter  mixture.  Sift  together  flour  and  baking 
soda  and  add  to  butter  mixture.  Add  oatmeal.  Dough  will  be  very  thick  and 
will  need  to  be  mixed  by  hand.  Stir  in  raisins,  pecans  and  cinnamon  to 
taste.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  about  9  minutes. 

This  is  a  recipe  handed  down  to  each  granddaughter  from  my  father's 
mother  -  "Big mama  "  -  Louise  Dickson. 

Amy  House 


Desserts  353 


Bushel  Basket  Cookies 


Yields  6  Dozen  2-Inch  Cookies 


2  cups  shortening 
IV2  cups  brown  sugar 
IV2  cups  granulated  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

3  eggs 

3V2  cups  all-purpose  flour 


1  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  old  fashioned  oatmeal 

2  cups  crushed  Corn  Flakes 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  thoroughly.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  greased 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Cool  on  brown  paper. 
Notes:  Shortening  may  be  all  margarine  or  half  butter  and  half  margarine; 
another  crushed  cereal  may  be  used;  raisins  may  be  substituted  for  some  of 
the  nuts. 

Theresa  Snowdon 

Chocolate  Mint  Cookies 

Yields  2  Dozen 


2  egg  whites 

V*  teaspoon  salt 

lA  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

%  cup  superfine  sugar 


Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  drops  green  food  coloring 

Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 

6  ounces  mint  chocolate  chips 


Beat  together  egg  whites,  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  until  soft  peaks  are 
formed.  Gradually  add  sugar  and  beat  until  very  stiff  and  glossy.  Add 
vanilla  and  food  coloring.  Fold  in  chopped  nuts  and  chocolate  chips.  Drop 
by  teaspoonfuls  onto  waxed  paper  on  cookie  sheet.  Place  in  oven  preheated 
to  350  degrees.  Turn  oven  off  immediately  and  leave  in  oven  overnight. 
DO  NOT  OPEN  OVEN.  If  unable  to  find  mint  chocolate  chips,  use  2  to  3 
drops  peppermint  flavoring. 


Bakes  while  you  sleep! 


Jeanne  Harrison  MacDonald 


354  Desserts 


After  going  through  a  difficult 
time  in  my  life,  I  felt  welcomed 
by  the  Stephen  Ministry,  Ray 
Scott  and  other  wonderful 
people.  I  became  a  member  of 
MPPC,  was  married  here  and 
had  my  girls  baptized  here.  I 
now  teach  Sunday  school  and 
love  to  see  the  children  smile. 
My  18-month-old  Emily  laughs 
and  skips  to  Sunday  school,  and 
my  10-year-old  Amanda  tells  me 
she  loves  her  church.  I'll  never 
forget  how  Amanda  got  up  on 
the  stage  in  Providence  Hall 
and  sang  Christmas  songs  for 
the  people  at  Room  in  the  Inn 
after  we  had  helped  with  dinner. 
Although  we  now  live  in 
Waxhaw,  we  still  drive  to 
Charlotte  to  go  to  MPPC,  and 
we  look  forward  to  many  more 
years  here! 

Carol  Robertson 


Daddy  Bunny's  Cookies 


Yields  2  Dozen 


Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar 

Vi  cup  margarine,  softened 

Vi  cup  vegetable  oil 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2  cups  Rice  Krispies 


1%  cups  flour 

legg 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Vi  cup  regular  oatmeal 

Vi  cup  chopped  pecans 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 


With  electric  beater,  combine  sugar,  margarine,  oil,  egg  and  vanilla.  In 
separate  bowl,  combine  flour,  salt,  baking  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  Blend 
flour  mixture  and  butter  mixture  together  with  electric  beater  on  low  speed. 
When  well  mixed,  add  cereal,  oatmeal  and  nuts  and  fold  in  with  a  spoon. 
Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
12  to  15  minutes. 

This  is  my  grandfather,  Henry  Newson  's  recipe. 
These  cookies  are  low  in  cholesterol. 

Beth  Neale 

Grandmother  Frances'  Ginger  Snaps 

Yields  14  Dozen 


lVi  cups  shortening 
2  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

Vi  cup  molasses 
4  cups  flour 


2  teaspoons  baking  soda 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  cloves 
2  teaspoons  ginger 


Combine  shortening,  sugar,  eggs  and  molasses  and  mix  well.  Add 
remaining  ingredients.  Roll  dough  into  balls;  roll  balls  in  sugar.  Place  balls 
on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  15  minutes  for  crispy 
cookies.  Bake  for  8  to  10  minutes  for  chewy  cookies. 

Carol  Robertson 
Desserts  355 


Diagonal  Jam  Cookies 


Yields  3  Dozen 


Vi  cup  margarine 
Va  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 
'/» teaspoon  salt 


VA  cups  flour 

Vi  cup  raspberry  jam 

%  cup  confectioners  sugar 

4  tablespoons  fresh  lemon  juice 


Cream  together  margarine,  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt.  Add  flour,  several 
spoonfuls  at  a  time,  and  mix  well.  Divide  dough  into  thirds.  Roll  each  third 
on  a  lightly  floured  board  into  a  "log"  about  9  inches  long.  Place  "logs"  on 
a  nonstick  baking  sheet,  spaced  well  apart.  Make  a  '/2-inch  depression  down 
the  middle  of  each  "log"  and  fill  with  jam,  being  careful  to  not  overfill. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  12  to  15  minutes  or  until  lightly  browned  on  edges. 
Cool  on  baking  sheet  and  when  cool,  drizzle  with  mixture  of  confectioners 
sugar  and  lemon  juice.  After  glaze  has  set,  cut  into  diagonals  %  inch  wide. 


A  great  Christmas  cookie. 

Fruit  Cake  Cookies 


Laura  Greer 


Yields  4  to  5  Dozen 


1  cup  margarine,  softened 
Wi  cups  light  brown  sugar, 

firmly  packed 
3  cups  flour 
3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 


¥i  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

Vi  teaspoon  allspice 

Vi  cup  buttermilk 

6  cups  chopped  pecans 

1  pound  candied  cherries 

1  pound  candied  pineapple 

1  pound  dried  dates 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk  and  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together 
and  mix  with  batter.  Combine  with  cut-up  fruit  and  nuts.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  15  to  20 
minutes 

Louise  Morris 


356  Desserts 


Mom's 

Chocolate 

Fudgies 

Yields  4  Dozen 

12  ounces  chocolate  chips 

1  can  condensed  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  (optional) 

Melt  chocolate  with  milk  in  a 
double  boiler.  Turn  down 
heat  and  add  butter.  Remove 
from  heat,  mix,  and  then  cool 
completely.  Add  flour,  nuts, 
and  vanilla  and  stir  well. 
Drop  small  scoops  on  a 
greased  cookie  sheet  (I  use  a 
mini  ice  cream  scoop).  Bake 
at  325  degrees  for  5  minutes. 
Remove  from  pan  and  cool 
on  wire  rack  or  waxed  paper. 
They  will  be  very  soft  at  first. 

A  family  favorite. 
Margaret  Akers  Hardage 


Gee's  Chocolate  Crispy  Cookies 


Yields  3</2  Dozen 


VA  cups  unsifted  flour 
'/':  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  cup  butter,  softened 
1  cup  sugar 


legg 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  Rice  Krispies 

6  ounces  chocolate  chips 


Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt.  In  another  bowl,  beat  together 
butter  and  sugar  until  smooth.  Beat  in  egg  and  vanilla.  Add  flour  mixture 
to  butter  mixture.  Stir  in  cereal  and  chocolate  chips.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls 
onto  greased  cookie  sheets.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  12  minutes  or  until 
lightly  browned. 

My  children 's  favorite  cookie  from  Gee  -  their  grandmother! 

Anita  Zeigler 

Lace  Cookies 


1  cup  butter,  softened 

3  cups  light  brown  sugar 

2  cups  old  fashioned  quick 

oatmeal 


1  large  egg 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg,  oatmeal,  pecans  and  vanilla.  Line  cookie 
sheet  with  aluminum  foil.  Drop  dough  by  Vz  teaspoonfuls  onto  cookie 
sheet.  Do  not  put  cookies  too  close  together.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10 
minutes.  Watch  carefully.  Remove  cookies  from  cookie  sheet  after  1 
minute. 

It's  hard  to  tell  how  many  cookies  you  get  per  cookie  sheet  as  some  might 
crumble  or  break  when  removing  them. 

Jocelxn  Rose 


Desserts  357 


Granny  Phaul  Cookies 


3'/2  cups  sifted  cake  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Va  teaspoon  salt 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  butter 


1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 


Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon.  Cream  butter  until  light 
and  soft.  Add  sugar  gradually.  Beat  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  nuts  and 
flour  mixture.  Mix  well.  Dough  will  be  stiff,  but  sticky.  Divide  dough  into 
half  or  thirds,  depending  on  whether  you  want  small  or  large  cookies.  Roll 
each  portion  in  wax  paper  to  make  a  log  with  a  diameter  the  size  of  a 
quarter  or  half-dollar.  Refrigerate  logs  for  12  hours  or  longer.  Slice  and 
place  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until  lightly  browned. 


Anne  Wright 


Mom's  Chocolate  Chip  Cookies 


Yields  About  5  Dozen 


1  cup  margarine 
1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  cups  oatmeal 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

6  to  12  ounces  chocolate  chips 


Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  beating  well.  Combine  flour,  soda, 
salt  and  baking  powder.  Add  to  creamed  mixture.  Add  vanilla,  oatmeal 
and  chocolate  chips.  Drop  by  rounded  teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie 
sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes. 

Judy  Ranson 


358  Desserts 


Mama  Annie's 
Crescents 

Yields  3  to  4  Dozen 

%  cup  margarine 
4  tablespoons  confectioners 
sugar 

1  teaspoon  water 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

Cream  butter  and  powdered 
sugar.  Add  water  and  vanilla 
and  blend  well.  Stir  in  flour. 
Shape  dough  into  crescent 
shapes.  Place  on  ungreased 
cookie  sheet  and  bake  at  325 
degrees  for  45  minutes. 
While  cookies  are  still  warm, 
roll  in  confectioners  sugar. 

My  grandmother  was  a 

wonderful  cook  and  this  is 

one  of  my  favorite  recipes  of 

hers. 

Ann  Edgerton 


Mom's  Christmas  Cookies 


Yields  20  cookies 


3A  cup  butter 

Vi  cup  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  unbeaten  egg  yolk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  flour 


Frosting: 

V*  cup  butter  or  margarine 

2  cups  confectioners  sugar 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  to  4  tablespoons  milk 


Cream  together  butter,  brown  sugar  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolk  and  vanilla, 
and  beat  well.  Blend  in  2  cups  flour.  Chill  for  easy  handling.  Shape  dough 
into  balls,  place  on  greased  cookie  sheet  and  flatten;  or  roll  out  and  cut  with 
cookie  cutters.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  7  to  9  minutes,  until  golden  brown. 
Cool  on  wire  racks  and  then  frost. 

Frosting:  Cream  softened  butter  or  margarine  with  confectioners  sugar  and 
vanilla.  Add  3  to  4  tablespoons  milk  to  make  spreading  consistency.  Tint 
with  food  coloring  and  frost  cookies. 

Betsy  Deupree 

Rosemary  Lemon  Cookies 


1  cup  flour 
Vi  cup  butter 
Vi  cup  sugar 
1  egg  yolk,  beaten 
Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 


2  tablespoons  fresh  rosemary, 

minced 
2  teaspoons  lemon  zest 
10X  confectioners  sugar 


Combine  flour  and  butter  to  form  coarse  meal.  Add  remaining  ingredients 
except  the  confectioners  sugar.  Mix  well.  Roll  dough  to  '/s-inch  thickness 
between  wax  paper.  Cut  with  2-inch  cookie  cutters,  place  on  ungreased 
cookie  sheets,  and  sprinkle  with  confectioners  sugar.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  10  minutes. 

Margaret  Akers  Hardage 


Desserts  359 


MPPC  Through  the  Week  School 
Christmas  Cut-Outs 


Yields  2  to  3  Dozen 


Vi  cup  margarine 
1  cup  sugar 
legg 


2Vi  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Vz  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  margarine,  sugar  and  egg  until  creamy.  Sift  together  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  and  gradually  add  to  creamed  mixture.  Roll  out  on  floured 
board  and  cut  into  shapes.  Place  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Allow  youngsters  to  decorate  and  ice  with 
seasonal  sprinkles. 

This  is  Helga  Rundquist's  recipe  for  keeping  children  happy  and  busy  in  the 

afternoon  session.  I  have  great  memories  of  my  son  and  older  daughter 

beaming  with  pride  as  they  showed  off  their  finished  cookies! 

Kathy  Howe 


Potato  Chip  Cookies 


Yields  40  Cookies 


1  cup  butter  or  margarine,  softened 
1  cup  sifted  confectioners  sugar 
1  egg  yolk 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


IVi  cups  flour 

%  cup  crushed  fresh  potato  chips 
Vi  cup  finely  chopped  pecans 
Confectioners  sugar 


Combine  butter  and  1  cup  confectioners  sugar  in  large  mixing  bowl;  beat  on 
medium  speed  for  3  minutes.  Add  egg  yolk  and  vanilla.  Mix  well. 
Gradually  beat  in  flour.  Stir  in  chips  and  pecans.  Drop  by  rounded 
teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie  sheets.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10 
minutes.  Transfer  to  wire  rack.  While  cookies  are  still  warm,  dust  with 
confectioners  sugar. 

These  are  great.  People  never  guess  that  they  have  potato  chips  in  them. 

Audrey  Dougherty 


360  Desserts 


RlTZ  DELIGHTS 

Yields  3  to  4  Dozen 

Box  of  Ritz  crackers 
Peanut  butter 
White  chocolate  bark 

(not  cooking  chocolate) 
Colored  sugar 
Plain  M  &  M's 


Spread  peanut  butter  between 
two  crackers.  Dip  in  melted 
chocolate.  Sprinkle  with 
colored  sugar  and  put  plain 
M  &  M's  on  top  for 
decoration. 

Deirdre  Barbee,  staff 


Peanut  Butter  Cookies  with 
Reese's  Cups  in  the  Middle 


Yields  3  to  4  Dozen 


Vi  cup  unsalted  butter 

Vi  cup  creamy  peanut  butter 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 

legg 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 


VA  cups  all-purpose  flour 
3A  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Vi  teaspoon  salt 

48  miniature  peanut  butter  cup 
candies,  unwrapped 


Cream  butter  and  peanut  butter.  Slowly  add  sugar,  beating  until  light  and 
fluffy.  Add  egg  and  vanilla,  beating  well.  Add  dry  ingredients  and  mix 
lightly.  Chill  dough  1  hour.  Shape  dough  into  1-inch  balls.  Place  balls  in 
lightly  greased  1%-inch  muffin  pans  and  shape  into  a  shell.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  12  minutes  (dough  will  rise  during  baking).  Remove  from  oven 
and  immediately  press  a  peanut  butter  candy  into  center  of  each  cookie. 
Cool  before  removing  from  pan. 

Coco  Killian 

Six-in-One  Cookies 


1  cup  shortening 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Wi  cups  all-purpose  flour 


3  cups  oatmeal 

1  cup  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips 

1  cup  raisins 

Wi  cups  shredded  coconut 

1  cup  chopped  dates 

Vi  cup  chopped  pecans 


In  large  mixing  bowl,  beat  together  shortening  and  brown  sugar  until  light 
and  fluffy.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla,  beating  well.  Add  salt,  soda  and  flour. 
Stir  in  oatmeal,  chocolate  chips,  raisins,  coconut,  dates  and  pecans.  Drop 
by  teaspoonfuls  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  12  to 
14  minutes.  Cool  and  store  in  an  airtight  container. 

Linda  Campbell-Feingold 

Desserts  361 


Sand  Tarts 

Yields  6  Dozen  Balls 

1  cup  butter 
lA  cup  sugar 

2  cups  finely  chopped  pecans 
2  cups  all-purpose  flour, 

sifted 
4X  confectioners  sugar 

Cream  butter  until  soft.  Add 
sugar,  pecans  and  flour.  Mix 
well.  Shape  dough  into 
marble-size  balls  or 
crescents.  Place  on 
ungreased  cookie  sheet  and 
bake  at  300  degrees  for  45 
minutes.  While  cookies  are 
hot,  roll  in  confectioners 
sugar.  Dust  again  with  sugar 
when  cooled. 

Kim  Harrison 


Roll  and  Cut  Sugar  cookies 


Yields  3  to  4  Dozen 


1  cup  margarine 
V-h  cups  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

3  eggs 

4V2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 


Frosting: 
2  egg  whites 

2  cups  confectioners  sugar 
Slight  dash  of  salt 


Cream  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Beat  well.  Add  flour, 
baking  soda  and  salt.  Dough  will  be  stiff.  Chill  before  rolling  and  cutting. 
Use  heavy  rolling  pin,  preferably  wood.  Also  use  cloth  sleeve  for  rolling 
pin  and  a  pastry  cloth.  These  may  be  purchased  where  cooking  supplies  are 
sold  (department  stores,  Williams-Sonoma).  Generously  flour  pastry  cloth 
and  sleeve.  Roll  dough  evenly  on  cloth.  Lightly  sprinkle  flour  over  rolled 
dough  before  cutting.  Cut  shapes  and  place  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  at  375  degrees  for  about  6  minutes.  Do  not  over-bake. 

Frosting:  Add  sugar  gradually  to  unbeaten  egg  whites.  Beat  until  smooth. 
Add  color  as  desired.  This  frosting  hardens  when  it  dries. 

My  mother  made  these  cookies  every  Christmas  and  frosted  them  using 

watercolor  brushes.  I  have  made  these  cookies  for  my  family,  but  we  use  a 

variety  of  cutters  for  all  the  holidays. 

Beverly  Darlington 


362  Desserts 


Ross  Cookies 

Yields  80  to  100  Cookies 

IV2  cups  butter 

1  pound  dark  brown  sugar 

1  cup  sugar 
4  eggs 

4V2  cups  flour 

2  cups  chopped  pecans 
21 :  cups  raisins 

7  ounces  coconut 
2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugars. 
Add  remaining  ingredients. 
Lay  out  sheets  of  waxed 
paper  and  form  dough  into 
long  logs.  Roll  up  logs  in 
waxed  paper  and  refrigerate. 
Slice  logs  and  place  on 
ungreased  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  to 
12  minutes  until  light  brown. 

Becky  Johnson 


Thumbprint  Cookies 


1  cup  butter  or  margarine 
2A  cup  sugar 

2  egg  yolks 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

2V4  cups  all-purpose  flour 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 


Chocolate  Frosting: 
1  cup  sugar 
W  cup  cocoa 
Vi  cup  milk 

V*  cup  butter  or  margarine 
Vz  teaspoon  vanilla 


Cream  butter;  add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  well.  Add  egg  yolks,  one  at  a 
time,  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Combine  flour  and  salt;  add  to  creamed 
mixture.  Chill  dough  in  refrigerator.  Roll  dough  into  1 -inch  balls.  Place 
balls  2  inches  apart  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Press  thumb  into  each 
cookie,  leaving  an  indentation.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Fill 
dents  with  frosting. 

Chocolate  Frosting:  Combine  sugar,  cocoa  and  milk  in  heavy  saucepan; 
bring  to  boil.  Boil  Wi  to  2  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat. 
Stir  in  butter  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  frosting  is  spreading  consistency. 

Sue  Zielinski 

Yum  Yums 

Yields  3  Dozen 


2  tablespoons  hot  water 
1  cup  chopped  dates 
1  cup  coconut 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 
Dash  of  salt 


1  cup  butter 
IV2  cups  sugar 

2  eggs 

2Vi  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  flour. 
Dissolve  baking  soda  in  2  tablespoons  hot  water  and  add  dates,  coconut, 
nuts  and  salt.  Stir  and  add  date  mixture  to  butter  mixture.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10 
minutes,  or  until  done. 

These  cookies  were  made  by  a  grandmother  for  her  grandchildren.   They 
named  them  "Yum  Yums"  because  they  were  yummy  and  never  lasted  long. 

Doris  Hurr 
Desserts  363 


Beezy's  Butter  Mints 

Yields  About  l'/i  Pounds  Pulled  Mints 


3  cups  sugar 
XA  cup  butter 
VA  cups  boiling  water  (measured) 


10  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint 

(from  drugstore) 
Several  drops  of  food  coloring 

(optional) 


Place  sugar  and  butter  in  heavy  4-quart  pot  and  attach  candy  thermometer  to 
inside.  Pour  boiling  water  over  contents  of  pot,  being  sure  to  wet  all  of 
sugar.  Do  not  stir.  Cook  contents  until  approximately  260  degrees. 

Pour  onto  greased  marble.  Add  10  drops  of  peppermint  and  food  coloring, 
if  you  wish.  As  candy  cools,  fold  around  edges  until  the  mixture  becomes  a 
small  shape  and  cool  enough  to  pick  up  without  burning  hands.  Pick  up 
candy  mixture;  pull  and  fold  about  10  minutes.  At  first,  hot  candy  will  be 
glossy.  As  candy  becomes  ready  to  cut,  it  will  get  dull-looking,  cool  and 
difficult  to  pull. 

Divide  candy  into  4  pieces.  Twist  each  piece  of  candy  rope  fashion  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Let  pieces  dry  about  an  hour  before  putting  them  in  a 
waxed  paper-lined  can.  Allow  candy  to  cream  overnight.  Candy  will  keep 
for  several  weeks  but  must  be  kept  in  tight  tin  containers  or  closed  jars. 

You  may  cook  candy  over  if  it  fails.  Add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  to  candy 
failure  and  use  the  same  cooking  instructions  for  temperature  and  handling. 
Add  4  drops  of  peppermint  flavor  and  repeat  procedure  for  pulling  and 
cutting. 

This  recipe  was  printed  on  the  front  page  of  Carolina  Living/Food  in  the 

December  5,  1984  Charlotte  Observer.  It  had  a  color  picture  ofBeezy 

Somerville  with  some  of  her  recipes  and  a  long  article  by  Helen  Moore, 

who  said,  "Somerville  is  an  expert  pulled-mint  maker.  " 

Dot  Dark 


364  Desserts 


Hard  Candy 
Treats 

2  cups  sugar 

%  cup  white  Karo  syrup 

1  cup  water 

Vi  teaspoon  oil  flavoring  of 

your  choice 
Food  coloring  of  your  choice 
Confectioners  sugar 

Combine  first  3  ingredients  in 
a  saucepan  and  attach  a 
candy  thermometer.  Heat  to 
300  degrees,  and  add 
flavoring  and  food  coloring. 
Pour  onto  buttered  cookie 
sheet.  When  cool,  cut  or 
break  pieces  off  beginning  at 
the  edges.  Shake  the  pieces 
in  a  plastic  bag  with 
confectioners  sugar. 

A  fun  activity  to  do  with 
children. 

Sandy  DuPuy 


Grannie's  Fudge 


1  jar  marshmallow  cream 
IV2  cups  sugar 
2A  cup  evaporated  milk 
V*  cup  butter  or  margarine 
Vt,  teaspoon  salt 


12  ounces  semi-sweet  chocolate 

chips 
Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Bring  marshmallow  cream,  sugar,  milk,  butter  and  salt  to  a  full  boil,  stirring 
constantly.  Boil  5  minutes  over  medium  heat.  Remove  from  heat.  Add 
chocolate  chips  and  stir  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Stir  in  vanilla  and  nuts. 
Pour  into  foil-lined  8-inch  square  pan.  Refrigerate  2  hours,  then  cut  into 
small  pieces. 

My  grandmother  was  known  for  her  fudge,  which  she  delivered  with  love  to 
friends  and  family  every  Christmas.  It's  hard  to  eat  just  one  piece! 

Debbie  Smith 

Mom's  Terrific  Toffee 


Saltine  crackers 
1  cup  sugar 


1  cup  butter,  no  substitute 
12  ounces  chocolate  chips 


Line  small  jellyroll  pan  with  aluminum  foil  (most  important  step).  Cover 
aluminum  foil  with  a  layer  of  saltine  crackers.  Bring  sugar  and  butter  to 
boil  and  boil  exactly  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  mixture  over 
crackers,  spreading  out  into  even  layer.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  to  12 
minutes.  Sprinkle  chocolate  chips  over  baked  toffee  and  spread  chocolate 
as  it  melts.  Refrigerate  at  least  1  hour.  Break  into  pieces.  Store  in  tin  in 
refrigerator. 

Claire  Buie 


Desserts  365 


Two-Minute 
Fudge 

1  box  confectioners  sugar 

V*  cup  cocoa 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine 

'.4  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together. 
Add  vanilla  and  place 
margarine  or  butter  on  top. 
Microwave  for  2  minutes. 
Pour  into  buttered  glass  pan 
and  refrigerate.  Cut  and  store 
when  hardened. 

Shannon  Davis,  staff 


Peanut  Butter  Balls 

Yields  4  Dozen 


IVi  cups  peanut  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vi  cup  margarine,  softened 


1  box  confectioners  sugar 
Dark  chocolate  bark  (not  cooking 
chocolate) 


Mix  first  four  ingredients  by  hand  until  well  blended.  Roll  into  small  balls 
and  chill  for  1  hour.  In  double  boiler  on  very  low  heat,  melt  chocolate. 
Using  toothpicks,  dip  each  ball  into  melted  chocolate.  Lay  on  wax  paper  to 
complete. 

The  yield  depends  on  the  size  you  roll  the  balls; 
the  smaller  you  make  them,  the  more  you  will  have. 


Deirdre  Barbee,  staff 


Christmas  Fudge 


1  large  can  evaporated  milk 
5  cups  sugar 

3  (6-oz)  packages  semi-sweet 
chocolate  bits 


1  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  cups  chopped  pecans 
(optional) 


Mix  milk  and  sugar.  Slowly  bring  to  boil  (it  takes  about  10  minutes  to 
bring  to  a  boil  very  slowly);  boil  for  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
chocolate  and  butter  to  mixture.  Remove  from  heat.  Beat  for  10  to  15 
minutes.  Stir  in  vanilla  and  nuts.  Pour  into  greased  pan. 


My  mother-in-law's  "best-ever"  old-fashioned  fudge  recipe! 


Li  I  la  Austin 


366  Desserts 


White  Chocolate  Party  Mix 

5  cups  Cheerios  1  (10-oz)  package  small  pretzels 

5  cups  Corn  Chex  2  (12-oz)  packages  vanilla 
2  cups  salted  Planters  peanuts  baking  chips 

1  pound  M  &  M's  3  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

In  large  bowl,  combine  first  5  ingredients.  In  saucepan  over  low  heat,  or  in 
microwave,  heat  chips  and  oil  until  melted.  Pour  over  cereal  mixture  and 
mix  well.  Spread  out  onto  wax  paper  and  cool.  Break  apart  when  cool  and 
store  in  airtight  container. 

/  cut  the  recipe  in  half,  which  makes  a  large  amount.   This  is  delicious  and 
once  you  taste  it,  you  keep  going  back  for  more. 

Mildred  Pittman 

White  Trash 

Yields  22  cups 

Vi  cup  butter  (no  substitutions)  1  (18-oz)  box  honey  graham 

12  ounces  semi-sweet  flavor  Golden  Grahams  cereal 

chocolate  morsels  12  ounces  salted  peanuts 

2  cups  smooth  peanut  butter  2  pounds  confectioners  sugar 

Melt  butter,  chocolate  morsels,  and  peanut  butter.  In  large  bowl,  combine 
cereal  and  peanuts.  Pour  melted  mixture  over  cereal  mix.  Mix  with  spoon 
to  until  well-coated.  Double  bag  2  brown  grocery  bags  and  pour  the 
confectioners  sugar  into  the  bags.  Pour  about  Va  of  the  cereal  mix  into  the 
confectioners  sugar.  Close  bag  and  shake,  shake,  shake,  until  mixture  is 
coated  in  confectioners  sugar.  Repeat  until  all  the  mixture  is  in  the  bag  and 
continue  to  shake,  shake,  and  shake.  Break  up  any  clumps. 

"White  Trash"  was  first  served  at  the  1998  Women's  Retreat  in 
Bonclarken.  It's  my  Mom 's  recipe  and  she  suggested  I  take  it  to  the  retreat 
because  it  serves  a  lot  and  it  tastes  great!  It  proved  to  be  a  retreat  favorite. 

Bev  Brown 
Desserts  367 


It  was  my  first  Sunday  in  the 
pulpit  of  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church  as  Interim 
Pastor,  July  23,  1999.  Forme 
the  experience  of  worship  in  the 
inspiring  sanctuary  with  the 
stirring  music  of  the  choir  and 
the  hymns  sung  with  gusto  by  a 
full  congregation  curious  to 
hear  their  new  preacher  was 
enhanced  by  the  presence  of 
some  of  my  family  on  the  front 
pew  in  front  of  the  pulpit.  Five 
of  our  granddaughters  were 
sitting  with  Cornelia,  their 
grandmother,  called  "Nonnie. " 
(I  am  called  "Dick.  ")  After  the 
sermon  and  during  the  offering, 
one  of  the  six-year-old  twin 
granddaughters,  Julia,  turned  to 
Cornelia  and  said,  "Nonnie,  I'm 
so  proud  of  Dick,  and  you  know 
what,  Nonnie?  I  think  Dick's 
proud  of  Dick,  too."  Out  of  the 
mouths  of  babes...  And,  of 
course,  I  was  proud  to  be  the 
Interim  Pastor  of  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church. 

Dick  Harbison 


boccone  dolci 
"Sweet  Mouthful" 

Serves  Eight 


2  egg  whites 

Vi  teaspoon  vinegar 

'A  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  sugar 

1  j  teaspoon  cinnamon 


3  tablespoons  water 

6  ounces  semi-sweet  chocolate 

3  cups  heavy  cream 

Vi  cup  sugar 

1  pint  fresh  strawberries,  sliced 


Meringue  shells:  Beat  egg  whites  with  vinegar  and  salt  until  frothy. 
Combine  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Add  gradually  to  egg  white,  a  little  at  a 
time,  and  beat  to  very  stiff  peaks.  Cover  cookie  sheets  with  heavy  paper 
(brown  bag  from  grocery  store  will  be  fine).  Trace  3  8-inch  circles  onto 
paper.  Spread  egg  white  mixture  on  the  3  circles.  Bake  at  250  degrees  for 
1  hour.  Turn  off  heat.  Let  dry  in  oven  with  door  closed  for  2  hours. 

Chocolate  filling:  Combine  3  tablespoons  water  and  chocolate  in  top  of 
double  boiler;  heat  over  medium  heat  until  chocolate  is  melted. 

Cream  filling:  Whip  cream  until  stiff.  Gradually  add  sugar  and  beat  until 
very  stiff. 

To  assemble:  Carefully  remove  meringue  shells  from  brown  paper;  don't 
worry  if  one  should  break  -  it  can  be  patched  together.  Place  a  meringue 
layer  on  serving  platter.  Spread  with  thin  coating  of  melted  chocolate. 
Spread  a  %-inch  thick  layer  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  chocolate.  Top 
whipped  cream  with  a  layer  of  strawberries.  Repeat  layers,  ending  with 
strawberries.  Refrigerate  at  least  2  hours  before  serving. 

This  is  a  spectacular  dessert  that  my  mother-in-law,  Annette  Peery,  always 
made  for  family  celebrations. 

Helen  Peery 


368  Desserts 


Three  of  the  happiest,  most 
blessed  days  of  my  life  took 
place  at  MP  PC.  The  first  was 
the  day  I  married  Kenny  Letts 
on  May  21,  1994.  It  meant  a 
great  deal  to  me  to  get  married 
in  the  church  where  I  had 
grownup.  I'll  never  forget 
walking  down  the  long  aisle 
with  my  dad,  Alfred  Brand,  in 
front  of  all  my  friends  and 
family.   When  I  saw  Kenny  at 
the  front  of  the  church,  my  heart 
did  flips;  it  was  the  most 
incredible  feeling  I'd  ever  felt. 
Then  we  had  children,  and  both 
of  them  were  baptized  at  MP  PC, 
where  I  was  also  baptized  as  an 
infant.  Standing  before  God,  my 
family  and  my  friends  with  my 
husband  and  my  children  was 
truly  a  wonderful  day.  Madison 
and  Kenny  III  already  love 
being  part  of  the  MPPC  family 
as  I  do,  and  I  know  they  will  for 
years  to  come. 

Elizabeth  Letts 


Chocolate  Eclairs 


2  boxes  instant  French  vanilla 

pudding 

3  cups  whole  milk 

9  ounces  Cool  Whip 

1  box  cinnamon  graham  crackers 

3  tablespoons  butter 


2  (1-oz)  squares  unsweetened 
baking  chocolate 

3  tablespoons  whole  milk 

2  teaspoons  white  Karo  syrup 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

IVi  cups  10X  confectioners  sugar 


Prepare  pudding  with  3  cups  milk  according  to  package  directions.  Add 
Cool  Whip  and  mix  together.  Butter  9x1 3-inch  baking  dish.  Layer  graham 
crackers  on  bottom  of  dish  and  cover  with  half  of  pudding  mixture.  Add 
another  layer  of  graham  crackers  and  top  with  remaining  pudding  mixture. 
Cover  with  another  layer  of  graham  crackers.  Pour  chocolate  topping  over 
last  layer  of  graham  crackers,  gently  spreading  to  all  edges. 

Chocolate  Topping:  Melt  chocolate  with  butter  in  medium  saucepan.  Add  3 
tablespoons  milk,  Karo  syrup,  vanilla  and  confectioners  sugar.  Heat  over 
low  heat,  stirring  constantly  with  wire  whisk  until  completely  blended  and 
just  beginning  to  bubble. 

Refrigerate  for  at  least  1 2  hours  before  serving  so  that  flavors  blend  and 
chocolate  layer  hardens. 

My  mother-in-law  made  this  for  my  husband  when  he  was  growing  up. 
I  love  making  it  for  my  family  now. 

Elizabeth  Letts 


Desserts  369 


Chocolate  Souffle 


3  ounces  chocolate 
(the  best  there  is) 
V*  cup  sugar 
3  tablespoons  milk 


3  egg  yolks 

3  egg  whites 

IV2  tablespoons  sugar 

Confectioners  sugar  for  topping 


Melt  chocolate  in  double  boiler.  Add  sugar  and  milk  and  beat  until  well 
mixed.  Cool  for  5  minutes.  Add  egg  yolks,  beating  constantly.  Whip  egg 
whites  until  very  stiff,  adding  additional  IV2  tablespoons  sugar  halfway 
through.  Fold  egg  whites  into  chocolate  mixture.  Pour  into  buttered  and 
sugared  mold.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes  or  longer  until  knife 
inserted  in  center  comes  out  almost  dry. 

This  is  Fielder  Cook's  favorite  dessert  at  LeNotre,  a  Parisian  patisserie. 

Katherine  McKay  Belk-Cook 

Chocolate  Strawberry  Delight 

Serves  Twelve 


Crust: 

24  chocolate-flavored  graham 

crackers,  finely  chopped 
Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 
Vi  cup  sugar 
Filling: 

12  ounces  frozen  whipped 
topping,  thawed 


1  cup  sour  cream 
1  small  package  chocolate 
instant  pudding 

1  pint  strawberries,  hulled  and 
sliced 

2  teaspoons  butter  or  margarine 
1  ounce  semi-sweet  chocolate 
Semi-sweet  chocolate,  grated 


Combine  graham  cracker  crumbs,  butter  and  sugar.  Press  onto  bottom  and 
slightly  up  sides  of  springform  pan.  Combine  whipped  topping,  sour  cream 
and  pudding  mix.  Pour  half  of  filling  over  crust.  Layer  strawberries  over 
filling.  Top  with  remaining  filling.  Melt  butter  and  1  ounce  chocolate 
together  for  1  to  IV2  minutes  on  high  setting  in  microwave.  Stir  until 
smooth.  Drizzle  over  top  of  filling.  Grate  additional  chocolate  over  top. 
Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve. 

Janet  Allen 


370  Desserts 


When  my  son,  Harvey,  was 
about  three  years  old,  we 
were  leaving  the  church 
through  the  hallway  outside 
the  sanctuary  as  Neill 
Whitlock  was  standing  in  the 
hall  in  his  choir  robe  talking 
to  another  member. 
Apparently  Harvey  noticed 
this  large  man  in  his  flowing 
robe  because  once  we  were 
out  of  the  church  he 
nonchalantly  turned  to  me 
and  asked,  "Mom,  did  you 
see  God  back  there?  " 

Fay  Grasty 


Chocolate  Trifle 


Sen>es  Sixteen  to  Eighteen 


1  package  fudge  brownie  mix 
Vi  cup  Kahlua  liqueur 
3  small  packages  chocolate 
instant  pudding 


12  ounces  frozen  whipped  topping; 
6  (1.4-oz)  English  toffee-flavored 

candy  bars,  crushed, 

preferably  Heath  bars 


Prepare  brownie  mix  and  bake  according  to  package  directions  in  9x  1 3-inch 
pan.  Prick  top  of  warm  brownies  with  a  fork  at  one-inch  intervals.  Drizzle 
Kahlua  over  top.  Cool  brownies  and  crumble.  Prepare  pudding  mix 
according  to  package  directions.  Put  lA  of  brownies  in  bottom  of  3-quart 
trifle  dish.  Top  with  lA  each  of  pudding,  whipped  topping  and  crushed 
candy.  Repeat  layers  twice  ending  with  candy.  Chill  8  hours. 

This  was  used  in  one  of  the  "Dessert  Soirees"  held  in  October  2000. 

Fay  Grasty 

German  Chocolate  Ice  Box  Cake 

Serves  Five 


1  package  German  chocolate 

IV2  tablespoons  water 

1  egg  yolk 

1  tablespoon  confectioners  sugar 


Vi  cup  cream,  whipped 
1  egg  white,  stiffly  beaten 
9  double  ladyfingers  or  18  strips 
of  sponge  cake 


Melt  chocolate  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add  water  and  blend  well.  Remove 
from  boiling  water,  add  egg  yolk  and  beat  vigorously  with  rotary  eggbeater 
until  smooth.  Add  sugar  and  mix  well.  Fold  in  whipped  cream.  Fold  in 
stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Line  bottom  and  sides  of  8x4-inch  loaf  pan  with 
waxed  paper.  Separate  ladyfingers  and  arrange  on  bottom  and  sides  of  pan. 
Place  ladyfingers  sideways  in  pan,  since  mixture  does  not  come  to  top  of 
pan.  Pour  in  chocolate  mixture.  Arrange  remaining  ladyfingers  on  top  of 
chocolate.  Chill  12  to  24  hours  in  refrigerator,  then  unmold.  Slice  and 
serve  with  additional  whipped  cream,  if  desired. 

Mary  Carson  Pease 
Desserts  371 


Hot  Fudge 
Sauce 

2  squares  unsweetened 

baking  chocolate 
Vt  cup  butter 
1  cup  white  sugar 
1  small  can  evaporated  milk 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter 
together  in  small  pan  over 
low  heat.  Stir  in  sugar.  Add 
evaporated  milk.  Stir  and 
bring  to  a  low  boil  for  1 
minute.  Remove  from  heat 
and  add  vanilla.  After  sauce 
cools,  it  can  be  kept  in  a  glass 
jar  and  reheated  on  the  stove 
in  a  pan  of  water  or  in  the 
microwave. 

Delicious  on  ice  cream! 

Ann  Brookshire 


Heavenly  Chocolate  Icebox  Cake 

Serves  Eight 


6  ounces  semi-sweet  chocolate 

chips 
4  eggs,  separated 
4  tablespoons  sugar 


Vz  cup  hot  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  to  2  packages  ladyfingers,  split 

1  pint  whipping  cream 


Melt  chocolate  chips  in  top  of  double  boiler.  While  chocolate  is  melting, 
beat  egg  yolks.  Add  sugar  to  melted  chocolate.  Beat  well.  Stir  hot  water 
into  beaten  egg  yolks.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  melted  chocolate.  Cook  all 
of  this  mixture  in  top  of  double  boiler,  about  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly 
until  smooth  and  thickened.  Cool.  Beat  egg  whites  and  add  vanilla.  Fold 
egg  whites  into  melted  chocolate.  Place  split  ladyfingers  around  the  edges 
and  bottom  of  a  spring-form  pan.  Pour  in  half  of  chocolate  mixture.  Break 
up  more  ladyfingers  over  the  chocolate  layer.  Cover  with  remaining 
chocolate.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve.  Before  serving,  top  with 
whipped  cream  that  has  been  beaten  until  stiff.  Do  not  add  sugar  to 
whipped  cream. 

Anne  Whitlock  Delimitros 

Banana  Split  Cake 

Serves  Twelve 


2  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs 
Vi  cup  margarine 

3  cups  confectioners  sugar 

18  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 


4  to  5  bananas 

1  cup  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

2  small  cartons  Cool  Whip 
Vi  cup  chopped  pecans 


Melt  margarine  and  mix  with  graham  cracker  crumbs.  Pat  on  the  bottom  of 
an  llx  13-inch  pan.  Mix  sugar  and  cream  cheese.  Spread  on  top  of  crust. 
Slice  bananas  on  top  of  cream  cheese  mixture.  Spread  crushed  pineapple  on 
top  of  banana  layer.  Top  with  Cool  Whip.  Sprinkle  with  pecans. 
Refrigerate  12  to  24  hours  before  serving.  Cut  into  squares  to  serve. 

Chris  Kirkland 


372  Desserts 


Chocolate 
Sauce 

Vi  cup  sugar 

IV2  tablespoons  butter 

V*  cup  cream 

lA  cup  cocoa 

Vi  cup  corn  syrup 

Pinch  of  salt 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Bring  to  boil  and  cook  until 
thick.  Cool  or  serve  warm. 

Tina  Todd 


Sue's  "Fancy,  But  Easy  Dessert" 


Ice  cream  sandwiches 

(number  depends  on  pan  size) 
Ys  to  Vi  cup  Amaretto  liqueur 


Cool  Whip 

Sliced  almonds,  toasted 


Line  pan  with  ice  cream  sandwiches.  Pour  Amaretto  over  sandwiches  (do 
not  drown  them!).  Cover  with  Cool  Whip.  Sprinkle  toasted  sliced  almonds 
on  top.  Freeze. 


Your  guests  will  never  guess  the  main  ingredient! 


Laura  Greer 


Susie  Bell's  Chocolate 
Ice  Box  Cake 


Sen'es  Five  to  Six 


2  (1-oz)  squares  Bakers'  German 
sweet  chocolate 

3  egg  yolks 

3  tablespoons  water 

2  tablespoons  confectioners  sugar 


1  cup  cream,  whipped 

3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

1  package  plain  ladyfingers 

1  cup  whipped  cream,  for  garnish 


Melt  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  egg  yolks 
and  water.  Return  to  heat  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  sugar  and  mix  well. 
Keep  warm.  Fold  in  whipped  cream.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Line  sides  and  bottom  of  cake  or  loaf  pan  with  waxed  paper.  Separate 
ladyfingers  and  arrange  on  sides  and  bottom  of  pan.  Pour  in  chocolate 
mixture.  Arrange  any  left  over  ladyfingers  on  top.  Chill,  covered,  for  12  to 
24  hours.  Unmold  and  slice  to  serve.  Top  with  a  dollop  of  whipped  cream. 

Susie  Bell  and  her  husband  Mike  Bridges  joined  MPPC  around  1930. 

Susie  served  as  circle  chairman,  President  of  the  Women  of  the  Church, 

Bible  teacher  and  on  the  PNC  committee  to  bring  Jim  Fogartie  to 

Myers  Park.  She  was  also  a  very  good  mother-in-law. 

This  is  a  favorite  Bridges  dessert. 

Betty  Bridges 
Desserts  373 


Mom's 

Chocolate 

Sauce 

2  cups  milk 

2  squares  unsweetened 

chocolate 
Vs  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  light  corn  syrup 
Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients  together  in 
heavy  pan  or  double  boiler. 
Stir  over  medium  heat  until  it 
thickens.  Serve  over  ice 
cream. 

Barbara  Atkins 


Kahlua  Tiramisu 


Sen<es  Eight 


3  egg  yolks 

Vi  cup  sugar 

8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 

2  tablespoons  Kahlua  liqueur 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  rum 

Vi  cup  coffee 


12  ladyfingers 

IV2  cups  heavy  cream,  divided 
2  tablespoons  sweet  Marsala  wine 
%  cup  semisweet  mini  chocolate 

chips 
Cocoa  powder  for  garnish 


Whisk  yolk  and  sugar  in  top  of  double  boiler  over  hot  water  until  light, 
about  3  minutes.  Continue  whisking  until  mixture  falls  in  ribbons.  Whisk 
cream  cheese,  Kahlua,  vanilla  and  rum  into  egg  mixture.  Remove  top  of 
double  boiler  from  hot  water.  Press  plastic  wrap  directly  against  surface  of 
pudding.  Refrigerate  2  hours.  Drizzle  coffee  over  ladyfingers.  Line  sides 
and  bottom  of  2-quart  glass  bowl  with  ladyfingers.  Beat  Vi  cup  cream  to 
soft  peaks.  Fold  cream  into  pudding.  Beat  remaining  cream  and  Marsala  to 
soft  peaks.  Layer  pudding,  chocolate  chips,  and  cream  in  bowl.  Refrigerate 
6  hours  or  overnight.  Dust  with  cocoa  powder. 

Faye  Tate 


Ladyfinger  Dessert 


Senes  Eight  to  Fourteen 


3  packages  ladyfingers  (plain, 

without  frosting) 
2  large  containers  Cool  Whip 


8  to  10  small  Nestles  Crunch  bars, 
broken  into  very  small  pieces 


Mix  Nestles  Crunch  pieces  with  Cool  Whip.  Set  aside.  Split  ladyfingers 
and  cover  bottom  of  10x1 2-inch  glass  pan.  Spread  half  of  Cool  Whip 
mixture  over  ladyfingers.  Cover  with  second  layer  of  split  ladyfingers.  Top 
with  remaining  Cool  Whip  mixture.  Refrigerate  several  hours  or  overnight. 

Harriet  Deckerman 


374  Desserts 


peach  Dessert 

8  ounces  cream  cheese  4  tablespoons  peach  Jello 

IV2  cups  confectioners  sugar  4  tablespoons  cornstarch 

8  ounces  Cool  Whip  Graham  Cracker  Crust: 
Fresh  fruit  -  peaches,  strawberries,         6  tablespoons  margarine,  melted 
or  blueberries  IV2  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs 

1  cup  water  Vi  cup  confectioners  sugar 

1  cup  sugar 

Mix  together  crust  ingredients  and  pat  into  9x1 3-inch  glass  dish.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  15  minutes.  Crumble  while  still  warm  and  allow  to  cool 
completely.  Cream  together  cream  cheese,  confectioners  sugar  and  Cool 
Whip.  Spread  over  prepared  crust.  Layer  fresh  fruit  over  cream  cheese 
mixture.  Mix  together  water,  sugar,  Jello  and  cornstarch  and  bring  to  boil 
until  mixture  is  clear.  Cool  and  pour  over  fruit.  Let  cool,  then  refrigerate. 

The  crust  may  also  be  made  by  mixing  together  V2  cup  margarine,  1  cup 
flour,  'A  cup  brown  sugar  and  'A  cup  chopped  pecans. 

Lisa  Bell 

Pumpkin  Roll 

1  cup  sugar  Vi  cup  confectioners  sugar 

%  cup  pumpkin  Icing: 

2/3  cup  flour  8  ounces  cream  cheese 

%  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  3  tablespoons  butter 

Vi  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  cup  confectioners  sugar 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  confectioners  sugar.  Pour  into  lightly  greased 
jellyroll  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes.  When  done, 
sprinkle  with  Yi  cup  confectioners  sugar.  When  cooled,  loosen  cake  with 
spatula  and  flip  out  onto  tea  towel.  Combine  icing  ingredients.  Spread  on 
top  and  roll  up  quickly  so  as  not  to  tear.  Wrap  roll  and  put  in  freezer.  Slice 
when  frozen  and  serve  at  room  temperature. 

Mary  Boyd 

Desserts  375 


Churned 

Peach  Ice 

Cream 

Yields  I  Gallon 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  condensed 

milk 
6  cups  peaches,  finely 
chopped 

2  cups  sugar 
Juice  of  Vi  lemon 

1  pint  half-and-half 
Whole  milk 

Combine  all  ingredients, 
except  milk,  and  fill  ice 
cream  churn.  Add  whole 
milk  to  reach  milk  level  on 
churn.  Churn,  following  ice 
cream  churn  directions. 

Delicious! 

Sarah  Page 


Baked  Alaska 

Sen'es  Eight 


Chocolate  Sauce: 

2  tablespoons  butter 

2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate 
squares,  finely  chopped 

1  cup  sugar 

1  (6-oz)  can  evaporated  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  quart  fudge  ripple  ice  cream 


1  baked  pie  crust  or  graham 

cracker  pie  crust 
Meringue: 

3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

'A  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

6  tablespoons  sugar 


Combine  all  ingredients  for  chocolate  sauce  and  cook  over  medium  heat, 
stirring  constantly  until  thick  and  blended.  Cool. 

Spread  softened  ice  cream  into  cooled  pie  crust.  Cover  with  half  of  cooled 
chocolate  sauce.  Freeze.  Can  be  prepared  several  days  ahead  up  to  this 
stage. 

When  ready  to  serve,  preheat  oven  to  475  to  500  degrees.  Make  meringue 
by  beating  egg  whites,  vanilla  and  cream  of  tartar  in  non-plastic  bowl  until 
soft  peaks  are  formed.  Add  sugar  gradually  until  stiff  peaks  are  formed. 
Spread  meringue  over  pie,  sealing  edges.  Brown  lightly  in  pre-heated  oven. 
Watch  carefully! 

This  is  a  treasured  recipe  from  my  mom,  Helen  Pressly,  a  former  MPPC 

member  for  many  years.  It's  a  wonderful  finale  and  receives  raves. 

The  chocolate  sauce  is  to  "to  die  for"  and  I  have,  in  earlier  years,  been 

known  to  sit  down  with  the  jar  of  chocolate  sauce  and  a  spoon 

and  indulge  my  chocolate  fix. 


Betft  Dale  Pressly  Archer 


376  Desserts 


Freezer 

Chocolate 

Ice  Cream 

3  eggs 

%  cup  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt 

1  can  condensed  milk 

2  small  cans  Hershey's 

chocolate  syrup 
5  cups  milk 
Vi  pint  whipping  cream 

Beat  eggs  until  frothy.  Add 
sugar  and  salt.  Add 
condensed  milk  and  syrup. 
Add  milk  and  cream.  Freeze 
in  electric  or  hand-cranked 
ice  cream  churn.  If  desired, 
mixture  may  be  cooked 
slowly  in  double  boiler,  so 
that  eggs  will  not  be  raw. 
Stir  while  heating  and  do  not 
boil. 

Anne  Patterson 


Christening  Dessert 


28  Oreo  cookies,  crushed 

lA  cup  margarine 

lA  cup  coffee  ice  cream 

1  cup  sugar 

1  small  can  evaporated  milk 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 
4  squares  semi-sweet  chocolate 
6  tablespoons  margarine 
1  large  container  Cool  Whip 
1  cup  chopped  toasted  pecans 


Combine  cookie  crumbs  with  melted  margarine  to  form  crust.  Press  into 
9x1 2-inch  pan  and  freeze.  Soften  ice  cream  and  spread  over  crust.  Freeze. 
Combine  sugar,  evaporated  milk,  vanilla,  chocolate  squares  and  margarine 
in  saucepan  and  cook  over  low  heat  until  smooth.  Let  mixture  cool  and 
spread  over  ice  cream.  Freeze.  Spread  Cool  Whip  over  chocolate  layer  and 
sprinkle  pecans  on  top.  Freeze  until  ready  to  serve. 


Eddie  Lynn  Finch 


Ice  Cream  Cake 


Sen>es  Eight 


1  pint  chocolate  ice  cream 
1  pint  coffee  ice  cream 
1  pint  orange  sherbet 

1  pint  vanilla  ice  cream 

2  bars  German  chocolate 


2  eggs 

Vi  cup  sugar 

1  small  package  chopped  pecans 
1  (1-lb)  frozen  Sara  Lee  pound 
cake 


Place  all  ice  cream  on  counter  to  soften.  Cut  pound  cake  while  frozen  and 
line  all  sides  and  bottom  of  spring-form  pan.  When  ice  cream  is  soft, 
spread  on  top  of  cake  in  order  listed,  starting  with  chocolate  and  ending 
with  vanilla.  Put  cake  in  freezer  to  harden. 

Melt  chocolate  bars  in  double  boiler.  Stir  in  sugar  and  eggs  and  keep 
stirring  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  until  cool.  Spread 
immediately  on  top  of  frozen  cake.  Sprinkle  pecans  on  top.  Return  cake  to 
freezer.  Remove  from  freezer  one  hour  before  serving. 


Happy  Birthday! 


Me-Me  Briley 
Desserts  "ill 


Cranberry 
Ice  Cream 

Serves  Ten  to  Twelve 

3  ounces  cream  cheese, 

softened 
1  cup  heavy  cream 
lA  cup  sugar 
l/i  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  (16-oz)  can  whole  berry 

cranberry  sauce 

Whip  cream  until  thickened. 
Beat  in  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Add  cream  cheese.  Fold  in 
cranberry  sauce.  Freeze  until 
ready  to  serve. 

We  have  been  having  this 

yummy  side  dish  at 

Thanksgiving  and  Christmas 

dinner  for  as  long  as  I  can 

remember.  It  is  always  the 

first  to  go! 

Betsy  Capps 


Lemon  Tortoni 

Serves  Eighteen  to  Twenty 


1  package  Pepperidge  Farm 

Lemon  Nut  Crunch  cookies 
1  can  Borden's  condensed  milk 
1  small  can  lemonade  concentrate 


Juice  of  2  large  lemons 
8  ounces  Cool  Whip 
Whipped  cream 
Raspberries 


Crumble  cookies  in  food  processor  and  place  in  bottom  of  foil  muffin  cups 
in  muffin  tins.  Mix  milk,  lemonade  concentrate  and  lemon  juice.  Fold  in 
Cool  Whip.  Fill  foil  muffin  cups  with  mixture  and  freeze  until  ready  to 
serve.  To  serve,  remove  foil  cups  and  place  lemon  tortoni  on  individual 
serving  plate.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  raspberries. 


Martha  Jean  Marshall 


*F      *F      *F      *F      *F 


Raspberry  Light  Ice  Cream 


Yields  1  Quart 


1  pint  fresh  raspberries 

Vi  cup  plus  3  tablespoons  sugar 


2  cups  half-and-half 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 


Puree  and  strain  raspberries.  Measure  1  to  F/2  cups  raspberry  puree  and  add 
sugar,  half-and-half  and  lemon  juice.  Freeze  in  ice  cream  churn.  If  using 
frozen  raspberries,  3  to  4  cups  may  be  needed. 

When  the  sign-up  sheet  is  passed  around  for  the  Seminar  Class 's  covered 
dish  suppers,  there  is  no  question  that  beside  our  name  is  Raspberry  Light 

Ice  Cream.   We  have  made  this  dessert  for  many  suppers  and  for  many 

years.   Class  members  ask  us  to  bring  this  ice  cream  and  they  look  forward 

to  it  served  in  a  cone  or  dish.   The  raspberries  are  grown  in  our  garden. 

Lois  and  John  Alexander 


378  Desserts 


When  our  daughter  Joy  was  13, 
she  loved  to  cook  and  create 
recipes.  In  1985  she  said  she 
wanted  to  cook  dinner  on 
Thanksgiving  and  invite  our 
Interim  Minister  Ray  Kiely  and 
his  wife  Martha,  who  had  never 
eaten  in  our  home.  Dubious,  I 
waited  to  assist  at  the  first 
disaster,  but  there  was  none. 
Dinner  was  flawless  and  the 
Kielys  left  happy,  but  Joy  was 
exhausted  and  said,  "I'll  never 
do  that  again!  "  She  was  ready 
by  the  next  year,  though,  and 
invited  our  Associate  Pastor 
Jennifer  Burns  and  her  friend 
Dan  Lewis.  Joy  clearly  wanted 
to  be  a  cupid.  Knowing  that  my 
favorite  fancy  dessert  was  baked 
Alaska,  she  gave  me  an 
assignment  to  be  made  by  her 
recipe:  ice  cream,  pumpkin  pie, 
a  mincemeat  ribbon  running 
through  the  center,  served  with 
a  flaming  mincemeat  sauce. 
Again,  the  turkey  and  trimmings 
were  delicious,  but  when  it  was 
my  turn  to  shine,  our  noses  told 
us  there  was  a  problem.   Until 
that  day,  not  one  of  my  many 
baked  Alaskas  had  ever  leaked 
onto  the  burners.  I  served  what 
was  left  of  it  with  a  red  face  and 
plenty  of  flaming  sauce.  As  Joy 
predicted,  the  flavors  worked; 
so  I'm  offering  the  recipe  with 
this  warning:  seal  the  meringue, 
check  for  air  holes  AND  watch 
every  minute  it  cooks. 

Margaret  Bigger 


Pumpkin  Baked  Alaska  with 
Flaming  Mincemeat  Sauce 


Serves  Eight  to  Ten 


Vi  yellow  9x9-inch  cake  layer 
Vi  gallon  pumpkin  pie  ice  cream 
1  jar  mincemeat 
4  egg  whites 
lA  cup  sugar 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 
V*  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
V*  cup  rum 

Wooden  cutting  board  or  clean 
piece  of  wood  larger  than  cake 


At  least  a  day  ahead:  Prepare  cake  (with  cake  mix).  When  cool,  cut  in  half 
to  get  a  4'/2x9-inch  layer.  Place  it  on  the  wooden  board.  Mound  %  of  ice 
cream  onto  the  layer,  making  a  long  mountain  with  a  flat  top,  and 
smoothing  with  a  knife.  Store  in  freezer  until  ice  cream  is  hard  again. 
Remove  and  scrape  excess  ice  cream  off  the  sides  of  the  cake  and  off  the 
board.  Make  1-inch  a  trough  in  the  flat  top,  leaving  ice  cream  at  each  end. 
Spoon  mincemeat  into  trough.  Cover  with  remaining  ice  cream  and  smooth 
into  a  long  mountain,  this  time  with  a  rounded  top.  Return  to  freezer. 

About  3  hours  before  the  meal:  Make  meringue  by  beating  egg  whites  on 
fastest  setting  of  electric  mixer.  When  whites  stand  in  peaks,  add  sugar, 
vanilla  and  cream  of  tartar.  Quickly  spread  meringue  onto  ice  cream  and 
cake,  sealing  it  against  the  wood,  carefully  covering  any  air  holes,  and 
swirling  it  into  small  peaks.  Return  to  freezer  and  freeze  at  least  two  hours. 

Before  the  meal:  Place  top  oven  shelf  low  enough  to  accommodate  the 
"mountain".  Turn  oven  on  at  500  degrees.  Heat  remaining  mincemeat  in 
jar  in  a  pan  of  water  at  medium  setting.  After  main  course  dishes  have  been 
removed,  begin  heating  rum  in  a  small  saucepan  at  medium-to-low  setting. 
Have  a  match  and  the  mincemeat  bowl  nearby.  Pour  warm  mincemeat  into 
a  small  silver  or  pewter  (not  glass)  bowl  on  a  plate.  Place  "mountain"  in 
oven.  Watch  constantly  until  peaks  begin  to  brown.  Remove  from  oven 
and  immediately  move  it  from  the  wood  to  a  serving  dish,  using  a  spatula  in 
each  hand.  Carry  into  the  dining  room  at  once.  Return  to  light  the  rum 
before  pouring  it  on  top  of  the  mincemeat.  Carry  the  flaming  mixture, 
holding  the  plate,  into  the  dining  room.  Slice  the  baked  alaska  with  a  cake 
knife.  When  the  flames  are  out,  mix  the  rum  into  the  mincemeat  with  a 
small  ladle.  Let  guests  add  their  own  sauce. 

Margaret  Bigger 


Desserts  379 


Amaretto  Bread  Pudding 


Sen'es  Eight  to  Ten 


1  loaf  French  bread 

1  quart  half-and-half 

2  tablespoons  butter 

3  eggs,  beaten 
1V2  cups  sugar 

1  tablespoon  almond  extract 
3A  cup  golden  raisins 


%  cup  sliced  almonds 

Sauce: 

Vi  cup  butter 

1  cup  confectioners  sugar 

1  egg,  beaten 

2  tablespoons  Amaretto  liqueur 


Break  bread  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  medium-sized  bowl.  Cover  with 
half-and-half  and  let  stand  for  1  hour.  In  a  small  bowl,  beat  eggs,  sugar  and 
almond  extract.  Stir  into  bread  and  milk  mixture.  Gently  fold  in  raisins  and 
almonds.  Spread  mixture  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  at  325  degrees 
for  50  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  cool. 

Sauce:  Stir  butter  and  sugar  constantly  in  saucepan  over  medium-high  heat 
until  sugar  is  dissolved  and  mixture  is  very  hot.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  a 
little  of  the  hot  mixture  to  the  beaten  egg  in  a  small  bowl,  and  then  add  this 
back  to  the  hot  mixture  in  the  saucepan.  Whisk  until  mixture  reaches  room 
temperature.  Add  Amaretto. 

Cut  pudding  into  squares.  Place  squares  on  ovenproof  saucers  and  spoon 
sauce  over  the  top.  Place  under  broiler  until  sauce  is  bubbly.  If  you  are 
going  to  transport  this  to  a  gathering,  you  may  do  the  sauce  ahead  of  time 
before  cutting  into  squares.  However,  be  careful  when  broiling.  If  you  are 
using  a  glass  pan;  put  it  on  a  lower  rack  in  oven. 

This  is  a  favorite  dessert  to  take  to  covered  dish  gatherings.   The  choir 
requests  it  for  every  covered  dish  supper.  It  is  really  special! 

Glenda  Pettigrew 

*k        *t*       *r       *i*       *i* 


380  Desserts 


My  grandmother  Grade  G. 
Berry  (early  MPPC  member 
Mrs.  Leslie  Berry,  Jr.)  had 
many  memorable  recipes,  but 
this  one  (chocolate,  of  course!) 
is,  perhaps,  my  favorite.   These 
recipes  from  great-grans  and 
and  grans  and  moms  are  always 
"warm  and  fuzzy  "  and  must  be 
prepared  occasionally  .  .  .  for 
both  the  wonderful  memories 
and  the  great  taste. 

Betty  Dale  Pressly  Archer 


Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


VA  squares  Bakers  unsweetened 

chocolate,  cut  in  pieces 
3  cups  cold  milk 
1  cup  sugar 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

ll/2  cups  '4-inch  toast  cubes 


Heat  chocolate  and  milk  together  in  double  boiler.  When  chocolate  is 
melted,  beat  with  rotary  beater  or  hand  mixer  until  well  blended.  Combine 
sugar,  salt  and  eggs.  Add  chocolate  mixture  gradually  to  egg  mixture, 
stirring  vigorously.  Add  vanilla.  Place  bread  cubes  in  buttered  baking  dish 
and  pour  chocolate  mixture  over  them.  Place  baking  dish  in  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  50-60  minutes.  Serve  warm  or  chilled 
with  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Betty  Dale  Pressly  Archer 

Blender  Chocolate  Mousse 


Sen>es  Eight 


Vi  cup  milk 

1  cup  heavy  cream 

2  tablespoons  butter 
2  eggs 


6  ounces  semisweet  chocolate  chips 
Vi  teaspoon  instant  coffee  granules 
2  tablespoons  rum  or  Cognac 
1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar 


In  a  saucepan  heat  milk  and  Vi  cup  cream  until  tiny  bubbles  appear  all 
around  the  edge.  Remove  from  heat  before  it  boils.  In  container  of  electric 
blender  place  butter,  eggs,  chocolate  chips,  instant  coffee  and  rum  or 
Cognac.  Cover  and  blend  at  medium  speed  until  creamy.  On  low  speed, 
slowly  drizzle  in  scalded  milk  and  blend  for  1  to  2  minutes  until  smooth. 
Pour  into  wine  glasses,  demitasse  cups  or  dessert  dishes  and  put  in  freezer 
for  one  hour.  Remove  to  refrigerator  for  another  hour.  To  serve,  whip 
remaining  Vi  cup  cream  until  fluffy.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  and 
whip  until  it  holds  soft  peaks  when  beater  is  raised.  Spoon  onto  each 
mousse. 

Betsy  Freeman 


Desserts  381 


A  letter  to  Peter:  I  have  always 
wanted  to  tell  you  how  much 
you  've  inspired,  challenged  and 
influenced  me.  From  the  minute 
you  came  to  Charlotte,  you  were 
literally  an  answered  prayer.  I 
was  with  Caroline  and  Lydia  at 
Greystone,  where  we  had  had 
an  amazing  summer  and  grown 
spiritually.   We  were  talking 
about  starting  a  Bible  study  at 
home  with  no  idea  of  where  to 
begin  when  my  mom  sent  me  a 
letter  saying  that  MPPC  had 
called  an  interim  Youth  Pastor 
named  Peter  Henry.  Mom  said 
you  were  going  to  start  a  Bible 
study  for  High  Schoolers,  and 
the  rest  is  history.   There  are 
too  many  "Peter  moments  "  to 
fit  in  one  letter,  but  there  are 
some  things  I  will  never  forget 
your  doing:  coming  to  more 
than  your  share  of  my  field 
hockey  games  and  dance 
recitals,  taking  us  to  the  top  of 
the  bell  tower  to  see  the  sunset 
and  finish  Bible  study,  giving 
hope  and  comfort  at  Adams ' 
funeral  with  your  eloquent 
memories  of  him,  being  cheerful 
at  5:30  a.m.  in  Mexico,  Canada, 
Portland  and  Nicaragua, 
driving  me  to  the  officer 
training  retreat  my  junior  year, 
making  sure  I  was  included  in 
Session  meetings,  and  telling  us 
with  sparkling  eyes  that  you  had 
proposed  to  Shawn.  Peter 
Henry,  you  are  my  hero. 

Jan  Scott  Swetenburg 


Grandmother  Smith's 
Chocolate  Pudding 


1  cup  sugar 

7  tablespoons  flour 

2  egg  yolks 
Dash  of  salt 


2  cups  milk 

4  tablespoons  cocoa 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter 


Blend  sugar,  flour,  egg  yolks,  salt,  milk  and  cocoa  in  a  blender  before 
cooking.  Pour  mixture  into  saucepan,  and  heat  slowly,  stirring  often,  until 
mixture  comes  to  a  boil  and  thickens.  Remove  from  heat;  add  vanilla  and 
butter  and  serve  warm.  For  vanilla  pudding  (excellent  for  banana  pudding), 
omit  cocoa  and  use  %  cup  sugar. 

Chocolate  pudding,  fresh  and  warm,  was  a  real  treat  in  the  Smith  family. 

However,  Mom  and  her  siblings  discovered  that  Grandma  did  not  write 

down  recipes,  nor  would  she  tell  them  to  her  children.  Each  of  her  eleven 

children  was  left  to  watch  (or  sat  a  spouse  to  watch,  as  in  Uncle  David's 

case)  Grandmother  Smith  cook  and  try  to  discover  her  secrets. 

Grandmother  died  and  some  of  her  grandchildren  compiled  a  cookbook  in 

her  honor,  made  with  family  recipe  contributions.  It  became  apparent  that 

there  were  11  different  recipes  for  "Grandmother  Smith's  Chocolate 

Pudding.  "  1  have  included  my  mom,  Gwen  Henry's,  version. 

Peter  Henry,  Former  Associate  Pastor 


382  Desserts 


Banana  Pudding 

Sen'es  Eight 

%  cup  sugar,  divided  2  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  all-purpose  flour  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 
Dash  of  salt  35  vanilla  wafers 

4  eggs  5  to  6  medium  fully  ripe  bananas 

Combine  Vi  cup  sugar,  flour  and  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Mix  in  1 
whole  egg  and  3  egg  yolks.  Stir  in  milk.  Cook,  uncovered,  over  boiling 
water,  stirring  constantly,  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat  and  add 
vanilla.  Spread  small  amount  of  custard  on  bottom  of  1  '/2-quart  baking  dish 
and  cover  with  a  layer  of  vanilla  wafers.  Top  with  a  layer  of  sliced  bananas. 
Pour  Vi  of  custard  over  bananas.  Continue  to  layer  wafers,  bananas  and 
custard  to  make  3  layers  of  each,  ending  with  custard.  Beat  remaining  3 
egg  whites  until  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Gradually  add  remaining  V*  cup  sugar 
and  beat  until  mixture  forms  stiff  peaks.  Pile  on  top  of  pudding,  covering 
entire  surface.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  5  minutes  or  until  delicately 
browned.  Serve  warmed  or  chilled. 

This  is  better  the  second  day,  but  it  won 't  last  that  long  unless  you  double 
the  recipe!  This  is  the  recipe  that  was  on  the  vanilla  wafer  box  in  1963. 

Judy  Dorminey 

Egg  Custard 

2  cups  milk  5  rounded  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

5  eggs 

Scald  milk  with  butter.  Beat  eggs  well.  Add  milk  to  eggs  and  beat  well. 
Add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  pie  pan  or  glass  baking  dish.  Place  in  pan 
of  water.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  about  20  to  25  minutes  until  set. 

Cure  all  for  everything,  but  high  in  cholesterol. 

Elsie  Barnhardt 
Desserts  383 


On  May  28,  1986,  I  took  a 
picture  of  Charlie  Marshall  and 
Hugh  McManaway  at  the  Town 
House  Restaurant.  Hugh  was  a 
charter  member  ofMPPC,  and 
Charlie's  father  was  one  of  the 
first  two  elders  when  our  church 
was  chartered.  Hugh  and 
Charlie  grew  up  together  in  the 
same  block  of  Queens  Road. 
Hugh  became  known  as  an 
eccentric  who  spoke  in  rhyme, 
played  a  musical  saw  and 
"directed"  traffic  at  the 
intersection  of  Queens  and 
Providence  Roads.  At  his  death 
in  1989,  he  left  a  legacy 
described  by  Dannye  Romine 
Powell  as  "a  trove  of  gentle, 
wily  memories,  reminding  us  of 
a  time  when  Charlotte 's 
emotional  climate  was  a  bit 
balmier  and  citizens  reached 
eagerly  to  cherish  an 
eccentric.  "  Now— inspired  by 
the  late  Anne  McKenna  and  her 
sister  Kitty  Gaston,  sculpted  by 
Elsie  Shaw  (once  at  MPPC)  and 
paid  for  by  people  who  had 
known  Hugh  or  not,  and  finally 
by  banker  Hugh  McColl—a 
statue  of  Hugh  McManaway 
stands  life-size  at  Providence 
and  Queens.  I  took  my  Town 
House  photograph  to  the 
Colonial  Barbershop  near  that 
intersection,  where  Hugh, 
Charlie  and  I  all  got  haircuts. 
It  hangs  there  as  a  memory. 

Gene  Graeber 


Lorna's  Banana  Pudding 

Serves  Six  to  Eight 


1  large  box  instant  vanilla  pudding 
3  cups  milk,  whole  or  skim 
1  large  container  Cool  Whip 


V2  box  vanilla  wafers 
3  bananas 


Mix  instant  pudding  with  milk.  Mix  in  Cool  Whip  and  set  aside.  Line 
serving  dish  with  vanilla  wafers.  Slice  \lA  bananas  and  layer  on  top  of 
vanilla  wafers.  Pour  Vi  pudding  mixture  over  bananas  and  vanilla  wafers. 
Add  another  layer  of  wafers.  Add  remaining  IV2  bananas.  Pour  remaining 
pudding  over  top.  If  desired,  crush  vanilla  wafers  and  sprinkle  on  top  of 
pudding  mixture  for  garnish.  Chill  for  minimum  of  2  hours  -  if  you  can 
wait  that  long. 

Lorna  is  my  mom.   This  is  guaranteed  to  be  a  crowd pleaser.  It's 
everyone 's  favorite  dessert  at  my  house. 


Tammy  Anderson 


Mama's  Boiled  Custard 


Yields  3  Quarts 


10  cups  milk 

10  or  11  eggs,  beaten  well 

1  cup  sugar 


■'  j  teaspoon  salt 

IVi  teaspoons  vanilla 


Scald  milk  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler.  Combine  eggs,  sugar  and  salt  in 
bowl  and  beat  well.  Gradually  stir  in  warm  milk  and  stir  constantly  until 
mixture  coats  spoon.  Chill  rapidly,  putting  pan  in  ice  water  to  cool.  Add 
vanilla  after  custard  is  cool.  Recipe  may  be  halved,  if  desired. 

When  I  was  growing  up  in  Marion,  NC,  my  mother  had  boiled  custard  and 
pound  cake  every  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas. 

Jean  Graeber 


384  Desserts 


"Miss  Lucy"  Glasgow's 
Delicious  Date  Pudding 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  cup  sugar                                            1  cup  chopped  dates 

3  scant  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  to  eggs.  Add 
dates  and  nuts.  Pour  into  greased  Pyrex  baking  dish.  It  will  rise  some. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

This  is  Ellen  Glasgow  Goode's  recipe  from  a  1940' s  cookbook. 

Harriet  Wliite 

Delicate  Lemon  Pudding 

Serves  Four 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 

Vs  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  eggs,  separated  1  cup  milk 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar  and  cream  well.  Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and 
lemon-colored.  Add  to  creamed  mixture.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Fold 
in  flour  and  stir  in  milk.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff;  fold  into  first  mixture. 
Pour  into  greased  1  to  IVi-quart  baking  dish.  Set  baking  dish  into  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  at  375  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Serve  plain  or  with  a 
dollop  of  whipped  cream,  sprinkled  with  toasted  almonds  or  pistachio  nuts. 

Voila  .  .  .  lovely  cake  on  top;  delicate  lemon  sauce  on  the  bottom! 

Anne  Harkey 


Desserts  385 


Pastors  of  Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church 


Pastors 

Edgar  G.  Gammon 

1927  - 

■  1939 

James  A.  Jones 

1939  - 

■  1955 

James  E.  Fogartie 

1956  - 

■  1974 

J.  Randolph  Taylor 

1976  ■ 

■  1985 

Timothy  L.  Croft 

1987  - 

■  1995 

Terry  V  Swicegood 

1996  ■ 

■  1999 

Interim  Pastors 

Ray  H.  Kiely 

1985  - 

■  1986 

J.  Sherrard  Rice 

1986  - 

■  1987 

Thornton  W.  (Tony)  Tucker 

1995  - 

■  1996 

Richard  T.  Harbison 

1999  ■ 

•2000 

Russell  E.  Mase 

2000- 

•  present 

Associate  Pastors 

J.  Cecil  Lawrence 

1948  ■ 

•  1955 

A.  Clarke  Dean 

1956  - 

-  1964 

Charles  M.  Murray 

1966  ■ 

■  1970 

David  S.  Templeton,  Jr. 

1971  ■ 

■  1973 

R.  Proctor  Chambless,  Jr. 

1977  - 

■  1979 

Eugene  L.  Daniel,  Jr. 

1964  ■ 

■  1977 

Albert  G.  Peery,  Jr. 

1976  - 

■  1984 

Margaret  Barnes  Peery 

1976  ■ 

■  1983 

Frank  William  Sutterlin,  Jr. 

1980  ■ 

■  1981 

William  S.  McLean 

1983  - 

■  1988 

Jennifer  L.  Burns 

1985  - 

■  1988 

Lemuel  Tyler  Downing,  III 

1988  - 

■  1995 

Jane  Summey  Mullennix 

1988  - 

■  present 

Eugene  L.  Daniel,  Jr.,  Associate  Pastor  Emeritus 

1989  - 

■  1995 

Raymond  D.  Scott 

1989  - 

■  present 

Charles  R.  MacDonald,  Interim  Associate 

1997  - 

■  1999 

Peter  J.  M.  Henry 

1997  - 

■2000 

Julius  W.  Melton,  Jr.,  Parish  Associate 

1998  - 

■  present 

Charles  R.  MacDonald,  Parish  Associate 

1999  - 

■  present 

Eldon  Von  Clemans 

1999  - 

■  present 

Jennifer  R.  Ayres,  Interim  Associate 

2000- 

■2001 

Coburn  L.  Colwell,  Interim  Associate 

2000- 

■  present 

INDEX 


APPETIZERS 
Canapes 

Asparagus  Foldovers,  10 
Asparagus  Roll-Ups,  11 
Ceviche.  41 
Cheese  Biscuits  with  Dates 

or  Pecans,  21 
Cheese  Rectangles,  17 
Cheese  Straws,  22 
Clam  Puffs,  32 
Crab  Puffs,  34 
Cranberry  Meatballs,  29 
Ham  Rolls,  28 

Jean  Adams'  Pickled  Shrimp,  37 
Laura's  Cheese  Biscuits,  20 
Lila's  Sausage  Toast,  30 
Little  Crabbies,  33 
Marinated  Shrimp,  38 
Monterey  Quesadillas,  27 
Mrs.  Akers's  Cheese  Biscuits.  21 
Mushroom  Croustades,  13 
Mushroom  Roll-Ups,  14 
Party  Sausage  Swirls,  3 1 
Pita  Bread  Toast  Points,  292 
Portobello  Pizzettas,  14 
Sausage  Cheese  Balls,  3 1 
Spicy  Texas  Shrimp  with 

Avocado  Sauce,  39 
Stuffed  Cherry  Tomatoes,  16 
Stuffed  Grape  Leaves,  29 
Dips 

Artichoke  Appetizer,  10 
Artichoke  Dip  -  Mexican  Style,  25 
Belle  Fontaine  Crab  Dip,  32 
Black  Bean  Salsa,  26 
BLT  Dip,  28 
Burrito  Dip,  25 
Carolina  Caviar,  1 1 
Clam  and  Spinach  Dip,  33 
Dill  Vegetable  Dip,  1 1 
Dilled  Artichoke  and  Shrimp  Dip,  37 
Hot  Sausage  Dip,  30 


Kathy's  Shrimp  Dip,  39 

Mango  Salsa,  26 

Mexican  Dip,  25,  27 

Quick  Spinach  Dip,  15 

Seven  Layer  Mexican  Dip,  26 

Siesta  Appetizer  Pie,  27 

Spicy  Water  Chestnut  Dip,  16 

Spinach  Dip,  15 

Sun  Dried  Tomato  Dip,  16 

Super  Good  and  Easy  Shrimp  Dip,  41 

Trawler  Crab  Dip,  35 

Snacks 

Monster  Munch,  43 

Salted  Bits,  42 

Scratch,  42 

Spiced  Nuts,  43 

Spreads 

Baked  Brie,  22 

Baked  Spinach  Spread,  15 

Baked  Vidalia  Onion  Spread,  14 

Best  Ever  Cheese  Ring,  17 

Boyd's  Smoked  Salmon,  36 

Cheese  Log,  1 8 

Cheese  Puff  Wreath,  18 

Chutney  Cheese  Ball,  19 

Crabgrass,  33 

Crabmeat  Spread,  35 

Cranberry  Delight,  24 

Curried  Sherry  Pate,  24 

Fantastic  Shrimp  Mold,  38 

Gateau  de  Fromage,  20 

Hummus,  12 

Liver  Pate,  28 

Melted  Brie  in  Hollowed-Out  Loaf,  23 

Mock  Crab  Meat,  35 

Parmesan  Walnut  Spread  in  Endive,  12 

Pesto  Pimento  Cheese.  19 

Salmon  Mold.  36 

Salmon  Spread,  36 

Shrimp  Remoulade,  40 

Spinach  Spread.  16 

Warmed  Cranberry  Brie,  24 


BEVERAGES 

Almond  Tea.  45 

Annie  Collins  Punch,  44 

Big  Lil's  Tea,  46 

Easy  Spiced  Drink.  44 

Mint  Tea,  45 

Mom's  Special  Iced  Tea,  46 

Party  Punch,  44 

Raspberry  Punch,  45 

Russian  Tea  Mix,  46,  47 

Sweet  Mint  Tea,  47 

Wassail,  47 

BREADS 
Biscuits  &  Rolls 

Bread.  72 

Ice  Box  Rolls.  71 

Linda  Hinson's  Sour  Cream 

Biscuits.  70 
Maw-Maw's  Biscuits,  70 
Pearlie's  Prayer  Rolls.  72 
Perfect  Yeast  Rolls.  71 
Rich  Yeast  Rolls,  73 
Coffee  Cakes  &  Sweet  Rolls 
Blueberry  Buckle,  54 
Caramel  Pecan  Sour  Cream 

Coffee  Cake,  55 
Cheese  Braid  Bread,  56 
Honey  Almond  Coffee  Cake,  57 
Mrs.  Ragan's  Gaston  County 

Stickies,  61 
Raspberry  Cream  Cheese 

Coffee  Cake,  58 
Scones,  61 

Sock  It  To  Me  Coffee  Cake.  58 
Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake.  59 
Sweet  Rolls.  60 
Taylor  Coffee  Cake.  59 
Cornbread 
Cornbread.  66 
Cornbread  Salad.  123 
Festive  Cornbread  Salad.  124 


388  Index 


Gourmet  Cornbread,  67 

Hot  Water  Cornbread  66 

Hush  Puppies,  65 

Mom's  Sweet  Cornbread  Muffins,  64 

Dressings 

Grandmother's  Dressing,  67 

Mimp's  Cornbread  Dressing,  69 

Our  Family's  Cornbread  Dressing,  68 

Muffins 

Best  Ever  Bran  Muffins,  62 

Crunchy  Apple  Muffins,  62 

Hearty  Banana  Muffins,  63 

Maple  Nut  Muffins,  63 

Mom's  Sweet  Cornbread  Muffins.  64 

Pecan  Muffins,  64 

Phenominal  Muffins,  64 

Pinto  Bean  Muffins,  65 

Pancakes,  Waffles,  French  Toast 

Best  Ever  Crispy  Waffles,  83 

Blintz  Souffle,  83 

Blue  Barn  Buttermilk  Pancakes,  84 

French  Toast  Casserole,  82 

Perfect  Waffles,  85 

Sunday  Waffles,  85 

The  Best  Easy  French  Toast,  83 

Tom's  Homemade  Buttermilk 

Waffles,  85 
UP.  Pancakes,  84 
Quick  Breads 
Almond  Bread,  50 
Banana  Chocolate  Chip  Bread,  50 
Banana  Icing,  50 
Banana  Nut  Bread,  5 1 
Banana  Nut  Bread  or  Cake,  5 1 
Irish  Soda  Bread,  52 
Lemon  Bread,  52 
Pumpkin  Bread,  53 
Pumpkin-Cranberry  Bread,  53 
Strawberry  Nut  Bread.  54 
Tom  Belk's  Aunt  Elouise's 

Banana  Bread,  51 


CAKES 

Apple  Cake  Glaze,  302 

Apple  Cake,  300,  301 

Apple  Cake,  Fresh  300 

Apple  Dapple  Cake,  302 

Apple  Nut  Cake,  302 

Black  Walnut  Cake.  Grandmother 

Russell's,  304 
Blackberry  Jam  Cake,  303 
Caramel  Cake,  Nanny's,  305 
Carrot  Cake,  Mom's,  306 
Carrot  Cake,  Wayside  Inn,  307 
Chewy  Cake,  306 
Chocolate  Cake,  309 
Chocolate  Cake.  The  Boys' 

Favorite,  308 
Chocolate  Mocha  Cake,  310 
Citrus  Mini  Cakes,  312 
Coconut  Cake,  314 
Coconut  Cake,  Bill  Tyson's 

Famous,  313 
Coconut  Cake.  Daddy's  Favorite.  314 
Coconut  Frosting.  320 
Freddy's  Fruit  Cake,  315 
Italian  Cream  Cake,  Aunt 

Mayme's,  316 
Kahlua  Cake,  Christmas,  312 
Mandarin  Orange  Cake,  3 1 8 
Nutty  Nut  Cake,  Mom's,  317 
Oatmeal  Cake,  318 
Orange  Cake,  Fresh,  319 
Pumpkin-Chocolate  Chip  Cake,  320 
Scotch  Cake  with  Frosting,  3 1 1 
Strawberry  Cake,  319 
Sweet  Potato  Surprise  Cake,  320 
Cheesecakes 

Amaretto  Cheesecake,  327 
Basic  Cheesecake,  327 
Pumpkin  Cheesecake,  328 
Pound  Cakes 
Almond  Butter  Pound  Cake,  321 


Buttermilk  Pound  Cake,  321 
Cream  Cheese  Pound  Cake,  322 
Easy  Chocolate  Chip  Pound  Cake,  322 
Easy  Pound  Cake,  323 
Four  Flavor  Pound  Cake,  324 
German  Chocolate  Pound  Cake,  325 
Hill's  Cold  Oven  Pound  Cake,  323 
Lossie  Mason's  Pound  Cake,  325 
Red  Velvet  Pound  Cake.  326 

COOKIES  &  BARS 
Cookies 

After  the  Dance  Cookies.  353 
Bushel  Basket  Cookies,  354 
Chocolate  Chip  Cookies,  Mom's,  358 
Chocolate  Crispy  Cookies,  Gee's  ,  357 
Chocolate  Fudgies.  Mom's.  357 
Chocolate  Mint  Cookies,  354 
Christmas  Cookies,  Mom's,  359 
Christmas  Cutouts,  MPPC  Through 

the  Week,  350 
Daddy  Bunny's  Cookies,  355 
Diagonal  Jam  Cookies,  356 
Fruit  Cake  Cookies,  356 
Ginger  Snaps,  Grandmother 

Frances',  355 
Granny  Phaul  Cookies,  358 
Lace  Cookies,  357 
Mama  Annie's  Crescents,  359 
Oatmeal  Cookies,  Bigmama's,  353 
Peanut  Butter  Cookies  with 

Reese  Cups.  361 
Potato  Chip  Cookies,  360 
Ritz  Delights,  361 
Rosemary  Lemon  Cookies,  359 
Ross  Cookies,  363 
Sand  Tarts,  362 
Six-in-One  Cookies.  361 
Sugar  Cookies,  Roll  and  Cut,  362 
Thumbprint  Cookies,  363 
Yum  Yums,  363 


Index  389 


Bars 

Almond  Crusted  Bars,  344 
Almond  Squares,  344 
Brownies.  Habitat  349 
Brownies,  Lete's  Cheese,  350 
Brownies,  Mother's  Butterscotch,  345 
Brownies,  Superb  Chocolate  Cake,  352 
Butterscotch  Bars,  344 
Chocolate  Crunchies.  Grandmother 

Menold's,  348 
Christmas  Fruit  Bars,  345 
Coffee  Bars,  346 
Crispy  Peanut  Butter  Treats,  347 
Dessert  Squares,  346 
Fudge  Cake  Squares,  308 
Hillbilly  Bars,  348 
Lemon  Bars,  350 
Ooey-Gooey  Bars,  351 
Pumpkin  Tassies,  351 
Scottish  Shortbread,  351 
Toffee  Bars,  Grandma  Edith's,  346 

DESSERTS 
Candy 

Beezy's  Butter  Mints,  364 
Christmas  Fudge,  366 
Grannie's  Fudge,  365 
Hard  Candy  Treats,  365 
Mom's  Terrific  Toffee,  365 
Peanut  Butter  Balls,  366 
Two  Minute  Fudge,  366 
White  Chocolate  Party  Mix,  367 
White  Trash,  367 
Frozen  Desserts 
Baked  Alaska,  376 
Christening  Dessert,  377 
Churned  Peach  Ice  Cream,  376 
Cranberry  Ice  Cream,  378 
Freezer  Chocolate  Ice  Cream,  377 
Ice  Cream  Cake,  377 
Lemon  Tortoni,  378 
Pumpkin  Baked  Alaska  With  Flaming 
Mincemeat  Sauce,  379 


Raspberry  Light  Ice  Cream,  378 

Sue's  "Fancy,  But  Easy  Dessert",  373 

Desserts 

Banana  Split  Cake,  372 

Boccone  Dolci,  368 

Chocolate  Eclairs,  369 

Chocolate  Mousse,  Blender,  381 

Chocolate  Souffle,  370 

Chocolate  Strawberry  Delight,  370 

Chocolate  Trifle,  371 

Ice  Box  Cake,  German  Chocolate,  371 

Icebox  Cake,  Heavenly  Chocolate,  372 

Icebox  Cake,  Susie  Bell's 

Chocolate.  373 
Kahlua  Tiramisu,  374 
Lady  Finger  Dessert,  374 
Peach  Dessert,  375 
Pumpkin  Roll,  375 
Puddings 

Amaretto  Bread  Pudding,  380 
Banana  Pudding,  383 
Chocolate  Bread  Pudding,  381 
Delicate  Lemon  Pudding,  385 
Egg  Custard,  383 
Grandmother  Smith's  Chocolate 

Pudding,  382 
Lorna's  Banana  Pudding,  384 
Mama's  Boiled  Custard,  384 
Miss  Lucy  Glasgow's  Delicious 

Date  Pudding,  385 

EGG  DISHES 

Eggs 

Apple-Egg  Casserole,  74 

Bacon  Egg  Puff  Pie,  78 

Deviled  Eggs,  130 

Egg  and  Mushroom  Casserole,  76 

Holiday  Sausage  &  Egg  Casserole,  77 

Mushroom  Omelet,  75 

Sausage  and  Egg  Casserole,  77 

Swiss  Baked  Eggs,  74 

The  Best  Breakfast  Casserole,  75 


Quiches 

Crustless  Bacon  and  Egg  Pie,  79 
Quiche  Lorraine,  81 
Savory  Summer  Pie.  80 
Spinach  Quiche,  81 
Springtime  Quiche,  82 

FRUITS 

Apple-Cranberry  Casserole.  175 

Apple-Egg  Casserole,  74 

Baked  Apples,  175 

Baked  Cranberry  Walnut  Relish,  265 

Blueberry  Buckle,  54 

Christmas  Cran- Apple  Delight,  175 

Cold  Peach  Soup,  100 

Cranberry  Apricot  Sauce,  246 

Cranberry  Casserole,  1 76 

Cranberry  Chutney,  268 

Cranberry  Delight,  24 

Festive  Curried  Fruit.  1 76 

Fresh  Pineapple  in  Madeira 

Wine,  177 
Hot  Fruit  and  Carrot  Casserole.  1 56 
Hot  Fruit  Casserole,  177 
Hot  Fruit  Casserole  - 

Savannah  Style,  178 
Hot  Pineapple  Casserole,  178 
Orange  Cranberry  Marmalade,  70 
Peach  Chutney,  224 
Warmed  Cranberry  Brie,  24 
Salads 

Apple  Cheese  Salad.  1 1 6 
Black  Bing  Cherry  Salad.  1 16 
Cranberry  Salad,  1 1 7 
Cranberry  Salad,  1 18 
Frozen  Cranberry  Salad,  1 1 7 
Mandarin  Orange  Rum  Mold,  118 
Mandarin  Orange  Salad,  1 19 
Orange  Bavarois,  1 19 
Red  Leaf  and  Pear  Salad,  128 
Salad  with  Apple  &  Blue  Cheese,  127 
Strawberry  Pretzel  Salad.  1 1 9 


390  Index 


GRITS 

Cheese  Grits,  78 

Sausage  and  Grits  Casserole,  78 

Shrimp  and  Grits.  289 

MEATS 

Bacon 

Bacon  and  Egg  Puff  Pie,  78 

BLT  Dip,  28 

Crustless  Bacon  and  Egg  Pie,  99 

Quiche  Lorraine,  81 

Beef 

Barbequed  Beef  Brisket,  213 

Beef  Reschauffe,  212 

Beef  Stew,  211 

Beef  Stroganoff,  212,  213 

Beef  Tenderloin,  206 

Dinner  in  a  Hurry,  Curry,  235 

Fillet  with  Cream  Sauce,  207 

Joy's  Christmas  Tenderloin,  206 

Lean  Cranberry  Pot  Roast,  210 

London  Broil,  209 

Lucy's  Chateaubriand.  207 

Marinated  Flank  Steak  for  Fajitas,  209 

Mary  Akers  Lazy  Day  Stew,  2 1 1 

Montreat  Beef  Barbecue,  214 

Never  Fail  Beef  Stew  with 

Red  Wine,  211 
Old-Fashioned  Beef  Stew,  212 
Sukiyaki,  208 
Tangy  Flank  Steak,  209 
Ground  Beef 

Aunt  Martha's  Baked  Spaghetti,  201 
Barbequed  Meatloaf,  213 
Burgundy  Meat  Balls,  221 
Cheese  Meat  Loaf,  217 
Cheesy  Shepherd's  Pie,  218 
Cranberry  Meatballs,  29 
Easy  Ravioli  Casserole,  200 
Ground  Beef  Casserole,  217 
Hamburger  Soup,  93 
Hamburger  Stoganoff,  2 1 8 
Heirloom  Meat  Loaf,  216 


Hot  Chili  Con  Carne,  93 

Isabel  and  Nenas'  Chiles  Rellenos,  219 

J.T.  Little's  Sweet  and  Sour 

Meatloaf,  215 
Lasagne  with  Besciamella  Sauce,  197 
Meat  Loaf,  215 
Porcupine  Meatballs,  222 
Santa  Fe  Soup.  102 
Spaghetti  Casserole,  203 
Spinach  Fandango,  220 
Swedish  Meat  Balls,  222 
Taco  Soup,  102 
Trappers  Chili,  94 
Ham 

Asparagus  and  Prosciutto,  148 
Ham  and  Cheese  Sandwiches,  109 
Ham  Loaf  with  Apricot  Topping,  23 1 
Ham  Rolls,  28 
Ham-Potato  Casserole,  232 
Melange  Au  Jambon  (Ham  Loaf),  23 1 
Turkey-Ham  Casserole  Supreme,  269 
Pork 

Baby  Back  Ribs,  230 
Barbequed  Pork  Roast,  230 
Brunswick  Stew,  233,  235 
Brunswick  Stew  a  la  Crock  Pot,  234 
Citrus  Marinated  Pork  Chops,  227 
Dinner  in  a  Hurry,  Curry,  235 
Easy  Pork  Tenderloin,  223 
Erma's  Pork  Chops,  228 
Hearty  Stuffed  Pork  Chops,  229 
Kitty's  Oriental  Pork  Tenderloins,  223 
Marinated  Pork  Tenderloin  with 

Peach  Chutney,  224 
Pork  Loin  a  la  Debrecen,  226 
Pork  Roast  and  Herbs,225 
Pork  Tenderloin  with  Cinnamon,  225 
Pork  Tenderloin  with  White  Wine 

Sauce,  223 
Stuffed  Pork  Chops,  228 
Sue's  Spareribs,  230 


Hot  Sausage  Dip,  30 

Lila's  Sausage  Toast,  30 

Party  Sausage  Swirls,  3 1 

Sausage  and  Egg  Casserole.  77 

Sausage  and  Grits  Casserole,  78 

Sausage  Cheese  Balls,  31 

Smokey  Sausage  Chili,  95 

Other 

Mary  Power  Lambeth's  Lamb,  232 

Osso  Buco,  233 

PASTA 

Aunt  Martha's  Baked  Spaghetti,  201 
Bistro  Chicken  with  Feta,  198 
Cheesy  Spinach  Lasagna,  196 
Chicken  and  Pasta  Bake,  25 1 
Chicken  Tetrazzini,  261,  262,  263 
Chicken  Tetrazzini  Light,  262 
Easy  Ravioli  Casserole,  200 
Fettucini  and  Spinach,  194 
Garden  Sauce  With  Fettucini,  195 
Kay's  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad.  141 
Lasagne  with  Besciamella  Sauce,  197 
Light  and  Tasty  Spinach 

Spaghetti,  202 
Noodles  and  Rice,  193 
Noodles  Romanoff,  1 94 
Parmesan  Zing  Pasta.  1 99 
Pasta  Passionata,  199 
Pasta  Primavera  Alfredo,  200 
Pasta  with  White  Clam  Sauce,  199 
Spaghetti  Casserole,  203,  203 
Spinach  Lasagna,  198 
Tortellini  Soup,  105 
Salads 

Basil  Pasta  Salad,  131 
Chicken  and  Pasta  Salad,  138 
Kay's  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad,  141 
Linguine  Salad,  132 
Marcia's  Rice,  132 
Meal  Pasta  Salad,  139 
Vegetable  and  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad,  141 


Holiday  Sausage  &  Egg  Casserole,  77 


Index  391 


PICKLES  &  PRESERVES 

Apricot  Jam,  71 

Baked  Cranberry  Walnut  Relish,  265 
Cranberry  Chutney,  268 
Microwave  Bread  and  Butter 

Pickles,  144 
Orange  Cranberry  Marmalade,  70 
Tyler's  Favorite  Squash  Pickle,  145 

PIES 

Angel  Pecan  Pie,  330 
Angel  Pie  (Lemon  Meringue 

Torte),  329 
Apple  Cranberry  Pie,  329 
Apple  Pie,  Lydia  Pharr's,  330 
Blueberry  Pie,  Southern  Sour 

Cream,  331 
Blueberry  Peach  Pie  with  Streusel 

Crumb  Topping,  33 1 
Brownie  Pie,  334 
Chess  Pie,  331,332 
Chocolate  Chess  Pie,  332.  333 
Chocolate  Nut  Pies,  Mama  Sue's,  334 
Chocolate  Pie,  Beezy's  Milk,  333 
Chocolate  Silk  Pie,  334 
Cider  Pie,  335 

Custard  Pie,  S  &  W's  Fabulous,  342 
Fudge  Pie,  335 
Key  Lime  Pie,  336,  336 
Lemon  Pie,  335 
Lemonade  Pie,  336 
Million  Dollar  Pie,  337 
Pawley's  Island  Pie,  337 
Peach  Chiffon  Pie.  Fresh  ,  337 
Peach  Pie,  338 
Peanut  Butter  Pie,  340 
Pecan  Chiffon  Pie,  339 
Pecan  Pie,  339 
Pumpkin  Pie,  340 
Strawberry  Pie.  Sugar  Free.  341 
Strawberry  Pies,  Gran  Gran's,  341 
Vinegar  Pie,  Grandmother 

Hartncss',  342 


Cobblers 

Apple  Crisp,  343 

Fruit  Cobbler,  342 

Mama  Kate's  Peach  Crisp,  343 

Peach  Cobbler.  343 

POTATOES 

Aunt  Jannie's  Company  Potatoes,  IS 
Chilled  Potato  and  Leek  Soup,  99 
Church  Picnic  Potato  Salad.  130 
Crispy  Parmesan  Potatoes.  183 
Ham-Potato  Casserole,  232 
Italian  Potato  Souffle,  1 82 
Mama's  Potato  Salad,  1 3 1 
Nana's  German  Potato  Filling,  183 
Party  Potatoes.  1 83 
Potato  and  Spinach  Casserole.  1 85 
Potato  Casserole,  1 84 
Potatoes  Boulangere,  184 
Roasted  Garlic  Potatoes,  185 
Vichyssoise,  107 
Sweet  Potatoes 

Cindy's  Sweet  Potato  Casserole,  1 8( 
Crusty  Sweet  Potato  Casserole,  1 86 
Hannah's  Sweet  Potatoes,  187 
Mary  Campbell's  Sweet  Potato 

Casserole,  188 
Orange  Sweet  Potatoes,  187 
Sweet  Potato  Pudding,  1 88 
Sweet  Potatoes  on  Pineapple 

Rings,  187 
Sweet  Potatoes  with  Pecan 

Topping,  188 

POULTRY 

Barbequed  Chicken,  236 
Basil  Grilled  Chicken,  236 
Bistro  Chicken  with  Feta,  198 
Cheddar  Chicken  Chowder.  91 
Chicken  Breasts  Deluxe,  237 
Chicken  Papkrikas 

("Pop-ree-kosh"),  238 
Chicken  Picatta,  239,  266 


Chicken  Waikiki,  240 

Chicken  Waldorf  Pizza,  264 

Cranberry  Chicken,  238 

Dinner  in  a  Hurry.  Curry,  235 

Easy  Chicken  Parmigiana,  241 

Easy  Seafood  Paella,  294 

Father's  Chicken  Delight,  242 

Formal  Yard  Birds,  265 

Granny  Watson's  Chicken  Salad.  140 

Grilled  Picnic  Chicken.  242 

Marinated  Chicken,  242 

Meal  Pasta  Salad.  139 

Mushroom  and  Chicken  Kabobs.  243 

Paella,  295 

Parmesan  Chicken,  243 

Parmesan  Crusted  Chicken  Breasts 

with  Sherry,  244 
Pasta  Passionata,  199 
Province's  Parisian  Poulet,  245 
Roast  Chicken  with  Lemon  (Polio  al 

Limone),  246 
Roasted  Chicken,  246 
Steve's  Famous  Easy  and  Low  Fat 

Chicken  Cacciatore,  247 
Tomato  Cream  Chicken,  248 
White  Chili,  94.  95 
White  Bean  Chili.  95 
Chicken  'n' Rice  Salad,  139 
Chicken  and  Pasta  Salad,  138 
Chicken  Casseroles  &  Pies 
Birmingham  Chicken  Casserole.  249 
Booster  Club  Chicken  and  Wild 

Rice  Casserole,  250 
Chicken  and  Pasta  Bake,  251 
Chicken  Divan,  252 
Chicken  Fantastic,  252 
Chicken  Pot  Pie,  258 
Chicken  Pot  Pie  with  Sour  Cream 

and  Cheddar,  258 
Chicken  Provence.  253 
Chicken  Spectacular.  254 
Chicken  Strata.  265 
Chicken  Tetrazzini.  261.  262.  263 


392  Index 


Chicken  Tetrazzini  Light,  262 
Covered  Dish  Chicken  and  Rice 

Casserole,  255 
Crunchy  Chicken  Casserole,  251 
Deluxe  Chicken  Enchiladas,  256 
Deluxe  Chicken  Pie,  259 
Granny's  Chicken  Pie,  260 
Hot  Chicken  Salad,  253 
Mildred's  Chicken  Casserole,  257 
New  Member  Casserole,  257 
Poppyseed  Chicken,  257 
Warm  Chicken  and  Shrimp  Salad,  254 
Game 

Baked  Quail,  267 
Rock  Cornish  Hens  with 

Wild  Rice,  270 
Turkey 
Apricot  Nut  Turkey  Salad 

Sandwiches,  1 1 1 
Grilled  Turkey  Breast,  268 
The  "Day-Way",  1 1 1 
Turkey  and  Broccoli  Casserole,  267 
Turkey  Chowder,  1 06 
Turkey-Basil  Piccata,  268 
Turkey-Ham  Casserole  Supreme,  269 

QUICHE 

Crustless  Bacon  and  Egg  Pie,  79 
Quiche  Lorraine,  8 1 
Savory  Summer  Pie,  80 
Spinach  Quiche,  81 
Springtime  Quiche,  82 

RICE  &  GRAINS 

Baked  Brown  Rice,  189 

Barley  Casserole,  1 93 

Booster  Club  Chicken  and  Wild 

Rice  Casserole,  250 
Brown  Rice,  1 89 
Chicken  "n'  Rice  Salad,  139 
Christmas  Rice,  189 
Company  Baked  Rice,  190 


Covered  Dish  Chicken  and  Rice 

Casserole,  255 
Curried  Rice  Salad,  133 
Elizabeth's  Christmas  Eve  Soup,  101 
Garlic  Rice,  191 
Holiday  Rice,  190 
Lemon  Parsley  Rice.  190 
Lynn's  Rice  Salad.  133 
Mary  Claudia's  Baked  Steamed 

Rice,  192 
Microwave  Risotto,  192 
Miss  Loma  Squires'  Seaview  Inn 

Herb  Rice,  191 
Noodles  and  Rice,  1 93 
RicePilaf,  191 
Ruth  O.'s  Rice  Pilaf,  192 
Wild  Rice  Casserole,  193 
Wild  Rice  Soup,  101 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 

Champagne  Mustard,  1 10 
Favorite  Salad  Dressing,  142 
French  Dressing,  142,  143 
Honey  Dressing  for  Fruit  Salad,  143 
Mom's  Mayo.  1  1 1 
Mummy's  Salad  Dressing,  144 
Poppy  Seed  Dressing.  143,  143 
Roquefort  Dressing,  145 
Roquefort-Sour  Cream  Dressing,  145 
Summer  Salad  Dressing,  144 
Vinaigrette  Dressing,  132 

SALADS 

Baked  Goat  Cheese  Salad,  124 

Bok  Choy  Salad,  125 

Broccoli  and  Cauliflower  Salad,  122 

Broccoli  Salad,  122 

Caesar  Salad,  125,  126 

Church  Picnic  Potato  Salad,  1 30 

Cornbread  Salad,  123 

Crunchy  Cabbage  Salad,  125 

Del's  Marinated  Vegetable  Salad,  136 


Festive  Cornbread  Salad,  124 

Fresh  Corn  Salad,  123 

Green  Pea  Salad,  127 

House  Party  Bean  Salad,  137 

Mama's  Potato  Salad,  131 

Marinated  Asparagus,  122 

Marinated  Broccoli,  123 

Polly's  Carrot  Salad,  117 

Red  Leaf  and  Pear  Salad,  128 

Salad  with  Apple  &  Blue  Cheese,  127 

Scandinavian  Salad,  136 

Seven  Layer  Salad,  1 28 

Spinach  Salad  and  Dressing,  129 

Spinach  Salad,  129,  129 

Tarragon  Tomatoes,  137 

Chicken  &  Seafood  Salads 

Chicken  V  Rice  Salad,  139 

Chicken  and  Pasta  Salad,  138 

Gourmet  Tuna  Salad,  142 

Granny  Watson's  Chicken  Salad,  140 

Kay's  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad,  141 

Meal  Pasta  Salad,  139 

Vegetable  and  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad.  141 

Warm  Chicken  and  Shrimp  Salad,  254 

Congealed  Salads 

Apple  Cheese  Salad,  1 16 

Barbecue  Salad,  120 

Black  Bing  Cherry  Salad,  1 16 

Cranberry  Salad,  117,  118 

Frozen  Cranberry  Salad,  1 1 7 

Mandarin  Orange  Rum  Mold.  1 1 8 

Mandarin  Orange  Salad,  1 19 

Meme's  Tomato  Aspic.  120 

Orange  Bavarois,  119 

Strawberry  Pretzel  Salad,  119 

Tomato  Aspic,  121 

Pasta  and  Rice  Salads 

Basil  Pasta  Salad,  131 

Curried  Rice  Salad,  1 33 

Linguine  Salad,  132 

Lynn's  Rice  Salad,  133 

Marcia's  Rice,  132 


Index  393 


Slaws 

Broccoli  Slaw,  134 

Cole  Slaw.  134 

Lucy's  Vinegar  Cole  Slaw,  135 

Oriental  Broccoli  Slaw,  135 

SANDWICHES 

Apricot  Nut  Turkey  Salad 

Sandwiches,  1 1 1 
Aunt  Bernice's  Chunky  Sandwich 

Spread,  108 
Champagne  Mustard  1 1 0 
Crabmeat  Melt-Away,  1 12 
Grilled  Portabella  Mushrooms,  1 10 
Grilled  Salmon  Sandwiches.  1 13 
Ham  and  Cheese  Sandwiches,  109 
Ham  Rolls,  28 

Minted  Cucumber  Tea  Sandwiches,  1( 
Mom's  Mayo,  1 1 1 
Mrs.  Pressly's  Cream  Cheese 

Vegetable  Sandwiches,  1 12 
Pesto  Pimento  Cheese,  19 
Pimento  Cheese,  109,  109 
Portabella  Fajitas,  1 10 
Shrimp  Spread  for  Sandwiches,  1 13 
The  "Day- Way",  1 1 1 

SAUCES 

A.J.'s  Secret  Southern  Barbecue 

Chicken  Sauce,  237 
Bar-B-Q  Sauce,  237 
Besciamella  Sauce,  197 
Chocolate  Sauce,  373 
Cranberry  Apricot  Sauce,  246 
Garden  Sauce  With  Fettucini,  195 
Hollandaise  Sauce,  152 
Hot  Fudge  Sauce,  372 
Japanese  Horseradish  Butter,  294 
Katharine's  Chili  Sauce,  222 
Mom's  Chocolate  Sauce,  374 
Mother's  Barbecue  Sauce,  2 1 0 
Mushroom  Sauce.  207 


Mustard  Sauce,  231 

Quick  and  Easy  Chicken  Fajita 

Marinade,  244 
Spicy  Texas  Shrimp  with  Avocado 

Sauce,  39 
Sauce  for  Rock  Cornish  Hens,  270 

SEAFOOD 

Baked  Flounder,  279 
Ceviche,  41 

Easy  Baked  Fish  Fillets,  279 
Flounder  Stuffed  w/Shrimp 

and  Cilantro,  280 
Clams 

Clam  and  Spinach  Dip,  33 
Clam  Puffs,  32 

Pasta  with  White  Clam  Sauce,  199 
Combinations 
Easy  Seafood  Paella,  294 
Seafood  Casserole,  295,  296 
Seafood  Chowder,  102 
Shrimp  and  Crab  a  la  Rice,  293 
Shrimp  and  Crab  Casserole,  29 1 
Spicy  Gazpacho  with  Shrimp 

and  Crab,  98 
Crab 

Belle  Fontaine  Crab  Dip,  32 
Crab  Cakes,  274 
Crab  Casserole,  276 
Crab  Gumbo,  96 
Crab  Imperial,  275 
Crab  Imperial,  275 
Crab  Puffs,  34 
Crab  Soup,  96 

Crab  Soup  from  Pawley's  Island,  96 
Crabgrass,  33 
Crabmeat  Melt- Away,  1 1 2 
Crabmeat  Spread,  35 
Dubner's  Crab  Cakes.  274 
Frank's  Crab  Cakes,  275 
Jeanne's  Crabmeat  Supreme,  277 
Little  Crabbies,  33 
Low  Country  Deviled  Crab,  277 


Sandy  and  Shirley's  Crab 

Casserole.  276 
Trawler  Crab  Dip,  35 
Crawfish 

Crawfish  Etouffee,  278 
Crawfish  or  Shrimp  Etouffee.  278 
Oysters 

Christmas  Night  Oyster  Stew,  97 
Mother's  Scalloped  Oysters.  282 
Oyster  Dressing  or  Scalloped 

Oysters,  281 
Scalloped  Oysters,  281 
Salmon 

Boyd's  Smoked  Salmon,  36 
Grilled  Salmon  Sandwiches.  1 13 
Junto's  Marinated  Salmon.  282 
Salmon  Bake  with  Pecan  Crunch.  283 
Salmon  Mold,  36 
Salmon  Spread,  36 
Tabu  Lodge  Grilled  Salmon 

Steaks.  283 
Shrimp 
Bill  Stagg's  Herb-Barbecued 

Shrimp,  284 
Crawfish  or  Shrimp  Etouffee.  278 
Dilled  Artichoke  and  Shrimp  Dip.  37 
Em  Baesel's  Rosemary  Shrimp.  285 
Fantastic  Shrimp  Mold  38 
Feta  Shrimp  Pizza.  286 
Frogmore  Stew,  285 
Garlic  Shrimp.  284 
Jean  Adams'  Pickled  Shrimp.  27 
Kathy's  Shrimp  Dip.  39 
Kay's  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad  141 
Marinated  Shrimp,  38 
May's  Shrimp  Casserole,  288 
New  Orleans  Jambalaya.  287 
Paella,  295 

Shrimp  and  Cheese  Casserole.  288 
Shrimp  and  Grits,  289 
Shrimp  Florentine.  291 
Shrimp  Remoulade.  40 
Shrimp  Spread  for  Sandwiches.  1 13 


394  Index 


Shrimp  Susan,  286 
Shrimp  with  Feta  Cheese 

Over  Pasta,  292 
Shrimp  with  Feta  Cheese.  292 
Shrimp,  Asparagus  and  Artichoke 

Casserole,  290 
Spicy  Texas  Shrimp  with  Avocado 

Sauce.  39 
Super  Good  and  Easy  Shrimp  Dip,  41 
Vegetable  and  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad,  141 
Warm  Chicken  and  Shrimp  Salad,  254 
Tuna 

Gourmet  Tuna  Salad,  142 
Grilled  Tuna  Kabobs,  296 
Julien's  Tuna,  296 
Tuna  Casserole,  293 

SOUPS 

Amish  Cheese  Soup,  91 

Black  Bean  Soup,  89 

Broccoli  Cheese  Soup,  88 

Broccoli  Soup,  88 

Carrot  and  Ginger  Soup,  91 

Carrot  Ginger  or  Butternut  Squash 

Soup,  90 
Cheddar  Chicken  Chowder,  91 
Cheese  Soup,  92 
Crab  Gumbo,  96 
Crab  Soup,  96 

Crab  Soup  from  Pawley's  Island,  96 
Cream  of  Tomato  Soup,  105 
Curried  Squash  Soup,  104 
Easy  Bean  Soup,  89 
Elizabeth's  Christmas  Eve  Soup,  101 
Hamburger  Soup,  93 
Just  Vegetable  Soup,  1 06 
Mom's  Vegetable  Soup,  107 
Old  Salem's  Pumpkin  Soup,  100 
Peggy's  French  Onion  Soup.  99 
Pumpkin  Soup,  100 
Santa  Fe  Soup,  102 
Seafood  Chowder,  1 02 
Spinach  Soup,  104 


Taco  Soup,  102 

Tortellini  Soup,  105 

Tortilla  Soup  (Sopa  de  Tortilla),  103 

Turkey  Chowder,  106 

Wild  Rice  Soup,  101 

Chilis 

Hot  Chili  Con  Carne.  93 

Smokey  Sausage  Chili,  95 

Trappers  Chili,  94 

White  Bean  Chili,  95 

White  Chili,  94,  95 

Cold  Soups 

Chilled  Cucumber  and  Yogurt 

Soup,  97 
Chilled  Cucumber  Mint  Summer 

Soup,  97 
Chilled  Potato  and  Leek  Soup,  99 
Cold  Peach  Soup,  100 
Quick  and  Easy  Gazpacho,  98 
Spicy  Gazpacho  with  Shrimp 

and  Crab,  98 
Vichyssoise,  107 
White  Gazpacho.  98 

STEWS 

Beef  Stew,  211 

Brunswick  Stew  a  la  Crock  Pot,  234 
Brunswick  Stew,  233,  233 
Christmas  Night  Oyster 

Stew,  97 
Mary  Akers'  Lazy  Day  Stew,  2 1 1 
Never  Fail  Beef  Stew  with 

Red  Wine,  211 
Old-Fashioned  Beef  Stew,  212 

VEGETABLES.  See  also  POTATOES 
Artichokes 

Artichoke  Appetizer,  10 
Artichoke  Dip  -  Mexican  Style,  25 
Brussels  Sprout  and  Artichoke 

Casserole,  154 
Dilled  Artichoke  and  Shrimp  Dip,  37 


Asparagus 

Asparagus  and  Prosciutto,  148 
Asparagus  Foldovers,  10 
Asparagus  Roll-Ups,  1 1 
Asparagus  Souffle,  148 
Baked  Fresh  Asparagus,  149 
Marinated  Asparagus,  122 
Rich  Asparagus  Casserole,  149 
Shrimp,  Asparagus  and  Artichoke 

Casserole,  290 
Beans 

Baked  Mixed  Beans.  150 
Barbara's  Green  Beans,  149 
Black  Bean  Salsa,  26 
Black  Bean  Soup.  89 
Easy  Bean  Soup,  89 
House  Party  Bean  Salad,  137 
Mexican  Black  Bean  Pie,  151 
Sharon's  Baked  Beans,  150 
White  Bean  Chili,  95 
Broccoli 

Broccoli  and  Cauliflower  Salad,  122 
Broccoli  Casserole,  152,  152 
Broccoli  Cheese  Soup,  88 
Broccoli  Salad,  122 
Broccoli  Slaw,  134 
Broccoli  Soup,  88 
Broccoli  Supreme,  153 
Broccoli  with  Sour  Cream 

Pecan  Sauce,  153 
Marinated  Broccoli,  123 
Oriental  Broccoli  Slaw,  135 
Swiss  Broccoli-Zucchini  Bake,  154 
Cabbage 

Bok  Choy  Salad,  125 
Cole  Slaw,  134 
Crunchy  Cabbage  Salad,  125 
Lucy's  Vinegar  Cole  Slaw,  135 
Mom's  Sweet  and  Sour 

Red  Cabbage,  155 
Carrots 

Carrot  and  Ginger  Soup,  91 
Carrot  Ginger  Soup,  90 


Index  395 


Carrot-Onion  Stir-Fry,  157 

Carrots  Vichy,  1 55 

Curious  Carrots,  156 

Horseradish  Carrots.  1 56 

Hot  Fruit  and  Carrot  Casserole.  1 56 

Polly's  Carrot  Salad,  117 

Winter  Roasted  Carrots.  1 72 

Corn 

Chile-Cheese  Corn  Pudding.  158 

Christine's  Corn  Pudding,  158 

Fresh  Corn  Salad,  123 

Mother's  Corn  Pudding,  1 58 

Cucumber 

Chilled  Cucumber  and  Yogurt  Soup,  97 

Chilled  Cucumber  Mint 

Summer  Soup,  97 
Minted  Cucumber  Tea 

Sandwiches,  108 
Quick  and  Easy  Gazpacho  Soup,  98 
White  Gazpacho,  98 
Eggplant 

Eggplant  Casserole,  159 
Spanish  Eggplant,  159 
Mushrooms 

Egg  and  Mushroom  Casserole,  76 
Grilled  Portabella  Mushrooms,  1 10 
Mushroom  and  Chicken  Kabobs,  243 
Mushroom  Casserole,  1 60 
Mushroom  Croustades,  13 
Mushroom  Omelet,  75 
Mushroom  Roll-Ups,  14 
Portabella  Fajitas,  1 10 
Portobello  Pizzettas,  14 
Onions 

Baked  Vidalia  Onions.  14 
Carrot-Onion  Stir-Fry,  157 
Gourmet  Onions,  160 
Marilyn's  Onion  Casserole,  161 
Onion  Pie,  161 


Peggy's  French  Onion  Soup,  99 

Peas 

Del's  Marinated  Vegetable  Salad,  136 

Green  Pea  Salad,  127 

Pumpkin 

Old  Salem's  Pumpkin  Soup,  100 

Pumpkin  Soup,  100 

Spinach 

Baked  Spinach  Spread,  1 5 

Cheesy  Spinach  Lasagna,  196 

Clam  and  Spinach  Dip,  33 

Crabgrass,  33 

Dorothy's  Spinach  Casserole,  162 

Fettucini  and  Spinach,  194 

Light  and  Tasty  Spinach  Spaghetti,  202 

Potato  and  Spinach  Casserole,  185 

Quick  Spinach  Dip,  15 

Shrimp  Florentine,  291 

Spinach  Casserole,  162 

Spinach  Dip,  15 

Spinach  Fandango,  220 

Spinach  Lasagna,  198 

Spinach  Madeleine,  163 

Spinach  Quiche,  81 

Spinach  Salad,  129 

Spinach  Salad,  129 

Spinach  Salad  and  Dressing,  129 

Spinach  Soup,  104 

Spinach  Spread.  16 

Tofu  Spinach  Pie,  163 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Spinach,  170 

Squash 

Belk's  Squash  Casserole,  164 

Country  Club  Squash,  164 

Curried  Squash  Soup,  104 

Maggie  Peery's  Squash,  165 

Squash  Casserole,  165,  166 

Swiss  Broccoli-Zucchini  Bake,  154 

Tyler's  Favorite  Squash  Pickle,  145 


Zucchini  Crescent  Pie,  166 
Zucchini  Pepper  Pie,  167 
Tomatoes 

Barbecue  Salad.  120 
Cream  of  Tomato  Soup,  105 
Easy  Tomato  Pie,  170 
Grilled  Green  Tomatoes,  168 
Italian  Tomato  Pie,  169 
Meme's  Tomato  Aspic,  120 
Spicy  Gaspacho  with 

Shrimp  and  Crab.  98 
Stewed  Tomato  Casserole.  168 
Stuffed  Cherry  Tomatoes,  16 
Stuffed  Tomatoes,  169 
Sun  Dried  Tomato  Dip,  16 
Tarragon  Tomatoes,  137 
Tomato  Aspic.  1 2 1 
Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Spinach,  170 
Other 

Beets  Burgundy,  151 
Broccoli  and  Cauliflower  Salad,  122 
Brussels  Sprout  and  Artichoke 

Casserole,  154 
Collard  Greens  with  Red  Onions 

and  Bacon,  157 
Creamed  Celery.  155 
Dels  Marinated  Vegetable  Salad.  136 
Elegant  Vegetable  Dish.  171 
Herb  Roasted  Vegetables,  172 
Just  Vegetable  Soup.  106 
Lib's  Vegetable  Casserole,  174 
Mixed  Vegetable  Casserole.  1 74 
Mom's  Vegetable  Soup.  107 
Pasta  Primavera  Alfredo,  200 
Roasted  Vegetables,  1 73 
Savory  Summer  Pie,  80 
Scandinavian  Salad,  136 
Springtime  Quiche,  82 
Vegetable  and  Shrimp  Pasta  Salad  141 


396  Index 


NOTES 


Myers  Park  Presbyterian  Church 
75th  Anniversary  Cookbook  Committee 


Editors 

Wendy  Kenney,  Chairman 

Kathy  Gately 

Helen  Peery 

Rebecca  Schenck,  Memories 

Barbara  Atkins,  Text  Layout 


Graphic  Design 

Coco  Killian,  Chairman 
Kelly  Brannon 

Cover  Photograph 

Gordon  Schenck 

Treasurer 

Betty  Hechenbleikner 


Proofreaders 

Lib  Chapman 
Louise  Hull 
Sallie  Lowrance 
Bev  MacBain 
Jan  Swetenburg 
Scottie  Trapp 


Committee 

Mary  Jo  Ashcraft 
Punkin  Brookshire 
Angela  Brown 
Betsy  Capps 
Brandon  Chapman 
Stacy  Chapman 
Bunny  Church 
Elizabeth  Cunningham 
Sylvia  Dalton 
Virginia  Davis 


Nancy  Donaldson 
Beth  Donovan 
Betsy  Freeman 
Gina  Folk 
Betty  Foushee 
Amy  Glenney 
Margaret  Hardage 
Kim  Harrison 
Cherie  Higgins 
Linda  Hinson 


Roslyn  Jaegers 
Chris  Kirkland 
Beth  Neale 
Tammy  Pereboom 
Harriet  Pharr 
Missy  Plyler 
Betsy  Strowd 
Ann  Tonissen 
Julie  Tucker 
Linda  Wallace 


With  Special  Thanks  to: 

Pat  Blount  and  Laura  Greer 

Ed  Bohannon,  Sandy  Moses,  Debbie  Stultz  and  Judy  Tuthill  of  Jostens  Graphics 

Count  Our  Blessings  is  a  collection  of  favorite  recipes  and  memories  from  the  Myers  Park 
Presbyterian  Church  family.  We  thank  the  many  contributors  and  regret  not  being  able  to 
use  all  of  the  recipes  submitted  because  of  space  and  similarity.  Many  of  the  recipes  have 
been  tested,  but  no  claim  is  made  to  originality. 


li^i^il^fMMM^i 


IISP 


fr^SI 


/Degirmers'  cvu&parTtnerft 

y         IruA-  certifier  that  / 

ua>  nj&n&DAJ  promoted  -prom,  the 
lOeaAsirv&rA?  ■jO^ep^u^jtrnervt  £cr  thve 


Tyv^^- H-H^n 


SUPUUNTBHOCNT    BEGIHHEftS' 


£& 


-^S.O  ^fcs»B*  ■^Nft^fcs.CV^J  I , 


— 


Go  forth  into  the  world  in  peace. 

Be  of  good  cheer. 

Hold  fast  to  that  which  is  good. 

Render  to  no  one  evil  for  evil. 

But  strengthen  the  fainthearted. 

Support  the  weak. 

Help  the  afflicted. 

Honor  all  persons. 

Love  and  serve  the  Lord, 

rejoicing  in  the  power  of 

the  Holy  Spirit. 

And  the  grace  of  our  Lord 

Jesus  Christ,  the  love  of  God, 

and  the  fellowship  of  the 

Holy  Spirit  go  with  you. 

Charge  and  Benediction  used  by  Richard  T.  Harbison, 
taken  from  Paul's  letter  to  the  Thessalonians 


•■; 


M Y E RS   P A RK    P  RES  BYTE  R I A 1^  CHURCH 
V  2S01    QXFCrRt)    PL.AC& 

CHARLOTTE,    KfoRT»H   CAROLINA    "r" 


