TX 

7  15 


SciRR 
Desk 


Published  By  The  Northwestern  Farmer  St.  Paul 


i 


HE 


GOUNTRY  KITGHEN 


- 

-NORTHWESTERN  FARMER  ||- 
RECIPE  BOOK.^-  

SEP    22  1894  I 


EVERY    RECIPE     CONTRIBUTED    BY    A  FARMER'S  WIFE 
MOTHER  OR  DAUGHTER. 


1894. 

E.  A.  WEBB  PUBLISHING  &  PRINTING  COMPANY, 
ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


Tkus 


Copyrighted,  1894,  by  E.  A.  Webb,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 


/ 


PREFACE. 


<<  -.UR  Cook  Book,"  which  has  been  slowly  developing 


(    j  for  the  past  three  years,  is  now  ready  to  take  its 
7^  place  in  every  home  where  the  Northwestern  Farm- 
er is  a  semi-monthly  visitor. 

Its  welcome  we  believe  is  assured,  not  only  because  it 
has  been  "long  looked  for  and  come  at  last,"  but  because  we 
know  it  is  "good"  and  just  what  is  needed. 

Every  recipe  has  been  sent  by  workers  thoroughly  edu- 
cated in  this  most  important  department  of  the  home,  and 
each  one  will  be  found  suited  to  the  materials  with  which 
we  must  deal,  and  to  the  wants  of  those  for  whom  we  cook. 

We  find  the  book  greatly  indebted  to  "Dakotan,"  not 
only  for  the  original  idea  and  its  first  proposition  in  the 
June  ist  number,  1891,  but  for  many  most  useful  suggestions 
and  recipes. 

To  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka  also,  whose  name  will  be  found  often 
in  these  pages  appended  to  most  excellent  recipes,  many  of 
which  are  her  own,  and  others  contributed  through  her. 

Miss  Cecile  Inez  Boughton  has  also  given  generously 
of  her  time  and  store. 

There  are  many  others,  whom  our  brief  space  will 
not  allow  us  to  mention  particularly,  whose  work  is 
worthy  and  truly  appreciated.  To  all  contributors  the 
publisher  of  the  Northwestern  Farmer  wishes  to  return 
thanks  for  the  continued  interest  taken,  the  patience  wTith 
enforced  delays  in  publishing,  and  for  their  valuable  assist- 
ance in  furnishing  the  material  which  we  have  taken  pleasure 
in  shaping  into  "The  Country  Kitchen"  and  in  presenting 
a  copy  to  each  subscriber  to  the  paper,  with  cordial  wishes 
for  the  welfare  and  success  of  each  one. 


The  Publisher. 


INTRODUCTORY. 


OT  all  the  credit  of  good  bread,  and  fine  cake  and  pas- 


try is  in  the  mixing,  nor  in  the  quality  of  the  materials 


used.  The  flour  may  be  prepared  from  the  choicest 
wheat,  the  yeast  of  scriptural  leavening  power,  sugar  most 
delicate,  the  eggs  and  butter  fresh  and  sweet  as  June's  blos- 
soming clover,  and  every  step  of  the  manipulation  taken  in 
the  most  painstaking  manner,  and  the.  bread  or  cake  or  pie 
be  perfect  when  placed  in  the  oven,  yet  when  taken  from  it 
the  cook  may  be  overwhelmed  with  disappointment  and 
vexation  in  finding  her  food  a  failure. 

The  oven  must  be  just  the  right  temperature  when  the 
articles  to  be  baked  are  placed  in  it;  a  little  too  hot,  and  a 
hard- crust  is  found  top  and  bottom,  and  no  after  effort  can 
make  the  heat  penetrate  to  the  center  without  burning  both 
top  and  bottom;  a  little  too  cool  is  not  quite  so  bad,  as  the 
heat  can  be  carefully  increased,  but  some  things  are  utterly 
ruined  in  a  "slack  oven."  Pies  are  spoiled  baked  too  slow- 
ly, and  all  kinds  of  food  raised  with  baking  powder. 

Therefore  it  behooves  the  cook  to  make  sure  that  her 
stove  is  clear,  ready  for  action,  that  the  fire  is  burning  free 
and  bright,  and  that  good  material  is  at  hand  for  keeping 
up  a  proper  temperature,  before  beginning  her  mixing. 

A  good  fire  cannot  be  secured  with  poor  wood  or  coal, 
nor  if  the  stove  or  pipes  are  full  of  ashes  or  soot.  Usually 
this  part  of  the  domestic  problem  is  outside  the  province  of 
the  cook,  and  we  must  appeal  to  the  man  of  the  house  to 
see  that  proper  fuel  is  provided  for  a  proper  stove,  and  that 
the  stove  is  kept  in  proper  working  condition.  If  he  fulfills 
his  part  of  the  contract,  then  he  may  very  properly  blame 
madame  if  his  pie  is  raw,  or  bread  and  cake  soggy. 

In  cooking  meat  and  vegetables  upon  the  top  of  the 
stove,  there  are  many  things  which  experience  teaches  us. 
To  boil  a  piece  of  beef,  if  you  wish  to  retain  the  juices  in  the 
meat,  plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  keep  it  boiling  gently 
until  tender;  there  is  nothing  gained  by  fierce  or  rapid  boil- 
ing except  a  waste  of  force,  and  fuel.  The  wisest  way  is  "to 
take  time  by  the  forelock/'  and  give  plenty  of  margin  for 
accidental  delays. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


5 


Salt  should  be  put  in  when  the  meat  is  partially  cooked. 

A  teakettle  of  boiling  water  should  always  be  on  hand 
to  replenish  that  in  the  meat,  if  necessary,  as  to  add  cold 
water  not  only  delays  greatly,  but  toughens  the  fibres  of  the 
meat  also,  so  that  no  after  cooking  can  make  it  tender;  and 
while  the  fibres  are  practically  of  no  value  as  nutriment  to 
the  body,  it  is  better  that  they  be  tender  as  it  spares  the 
labor  of  mastication  and  digestion. 

Meat  cooked  for  broths  and  soups  should  be  put  on  to 
cook  in  cold  water  and  given  long  and  slow  cooking,  that 
the  juices  may  be  liberated  from  the  fibrous  portion  of  the 
meat.  Vegetables  also  are  best  put  into  hot  water  and  kept 
boiling  until  well-done,  then  drain  off  the  wrater,  season, 
cover  close,  and  set  back  until  ready  to  serve.  Potatoes 
should  be  only  partially  covered,  that  the  steam  may  escape 
and  leave  them  dry  and  mealy. 

It  is  said  there  are  exceptions  to  all  rules,  so  beans 
should  be  put  on  to  cook,  after  being  soaked  over  night,  in 
cold  water,  and  poultry,  if  to  be  boiled,  should  be  put  on  in 
cold  water. 

Very  few  men  are  insensible  to  a  well  set  table,  and  well 
cooked,  well  seasoned  foods.  It  was  a  wise  woman  who 
said,  "We  hold  men  by  their  stomachs!"  This  being  true,  it 
behooves  us  to  study  not  only  cook  books,  but  also  the 
chemistry  of  foods,  that  we  may  understand  what  will  sup- 
ply the  physical  needs  as  wrell  as  gratify  the  tastes  of  those 
in  whom  we  are  most  intimately  interested,  and  whose 
health  and  temper  are  largely  in  our  hands. 

It  is  true  that  the  food  of  the  farmer  has  less  influence 
upon  his  mental  condition  than  it  has  upon  a  man  engaged 
in  any  indoor  or  sedentary  occupation  because  his  active 
exercise  in  the  free  open  air  insures  more  vigorous  digestion, 
yet  even  his  hearty  organization  rebels  against  heavy  bread, 
soggy  cake  and  poor  coffee.  Three  good  wholesome  meals 
a  day  served  promptly  at  an  appointed  time,  will  bring  a 
man  home  regularly  when  nothing  else  will,  the  more  surely 
if  he  knows  there  will  be  something  that  he  particularly 
likes.  As  with  men,  so  with  children;  they  will  hasten  home 
from  school  because,  "We're  going  to  have  fried  chicken,  or 
perhaps  apple  pot  pie,"  or  some  other  favorite  article,  "for 
dinner." 

Any  thing  that  contains  nutriment  will  appease  hunger, 
and  sustain  life;  but  watch  the  mental  attitude  of  a  man 
who  has  eaten  his  meal  with  a  hearty  relish  from  beginning 


6 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


to  end;  his  cheerfulness  amounts  to  exhilraation;  the  world 
looks  bright;  labor  loses  its  dread  and  wearisomeness  as  his 
blood,  increased  invitality  refreshes  and  thrills  every  nerve. 
Seldom  when  the  body  is  in  this  condition  will  you  find 
either  ill  temper  or  despondency. 

Not  least  among  the  items  which  conduce  to  success  in 
cookery  are  the  utensils  for  use  in  cooking. 

A  few  dollars  now-a-days  will  provide  all  the  necessary 
things  and  it  is  poor  economy  to  do  without  them. 

Porcelain  lined,  granite  and  stone  ware,  with  close  fit- 
ting covers  in  all  sizes,  are  to  be  had  at  very  reasonable 
prices,  and  with  care  they  will  last  a  long  time.  These  all 
resist  the  action  of  acids,  which  the  tin  and  iron  ware  of  days 
gone  by  did  not;  and  which  always  imparted  a  disagreeable 
taste  to  foods  cooked  in  them. 

Dried  fruits  are  best  prepared  by  soaking  over  night  in 
a  stone  vessel  in  plenty  of  water;  by  morning  they  will  be 
"plumped  out,"  and  tender;  sugar  can  then  be  added  and 
the  fruit  gently  simmered  until  permeated  with  the  sweet; 
do  not  stir,  or  boil,  as  this  breaks  the  fruit,  and  spoils  the 
fine  appearance. 

Lima  beans,  dry  peas,  dried  corn,  all  are  best  cooked  the 
same  way,  except  of  course  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter, 
instead  of  sugar. 

A  double  granite  ware  kettle  is  indispensible  in  which 
to  cook  rice,  farina  and  whole  grains.  These  need  a  long 
time  to  cook.  Oat  meal  and  cereline  should  be  cooked 
quickly  by  pouring  boiling  water  upon  it,  in  a  pan,  prefer- 
ably. Do  not  stir  it  with  a  spoon,  but  shake  the  pan  to 
keep  from  burning.  To  grease  the  pan  first  is  a  good  thing 
to  keep  it  from  burning. 

An  earthen  bowl  is  far  the  best  to  use  for  pastry  and 
cake. 

A  lace  whip  made  of  fine  wire  costing  ten  cents,  is  far 
better  than  a  dover  costing  fifty,  for  beating  eggs;  and  whip- 
ping cream;  a  medium  sized  wooden  spoon,  the  best  for 
waiding  sugar  and  butter,  and  stirring  cake. 

For  layer  cake,  be  sure  that  your  tins  are  at  least  an 
inch  deep,  then  you  will  be  free  from  anxiety  lest  they  run 
over,  and  you  can  spread  them  as  thin  as  you  please.  Never 
use  your  cake  tins  for  any  other  purpose. 

For  loaf  cake,  always  line  your  pans  with  good  paper, 
well  greased,  to  secure  against  burning.    A  cup  of  water  is 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


7 


a  good  thing  to  set  in  the  oven,  if  a  thick  cake  is  to  be 
baked.  In  taking  cakes  from  the  pan,  run  a  knife  around 
the  edge  of  the  cake,  reverse  the  pan  upon  a  clean  towel; 
the  cake  will  soon  fall  out  neatly,  and  can  be  quickly  re- 
versed upon  the  plate  with  much  less  danger  of  breakage 
than  to  try  to  lift  them  out. 

Be  sure  to  have  some  sharp  steel  knives  of  different 
sizes  and  a  steel  to  keep  them  sharp  with.  A  good  thin 
bread  knife  is  as  much  a  necessity  as  a  carving  knife;  much 
time,  temper  and  material  are  saved  by  sharp  knives  in  the 
kitchen. 

Do  not  forget  to  include  a  potato  knife;  one  with  a  con- 
cave blade  with  a  sharp  slit  in  the  center  of  the  blade;  with 
this  knife,  half  the  time  in  paring  and  half  the  paring  is 
saved.  "Saratogas"  lose  their  terrors,  for  it  slices  the  pota- 
to rapidly  and  beautifully  thin  and  even. 

There  are  many  kitchen  conveniences  which  I  would 
like  to  mention.  A  close  covered  steamer  to  fit  the  teaket- 
tle, and  I  will  not  neglect  the  "iron  dish  cloth/'  the  little 
"fist  brush,"  the  pearline,  sapolio,  and  the  electro  lilicon. 

Of  beverages,  for  children  who  cannot  drink  or  are 
tired  of  milk,  give  them  cocoa;  never  tea  or  coffee. 

A  glazed  earthen  ware  teapot  only  is  fit  to  steep  tea  in. 
A  granite  ware  or  porcelain  lined  pot  for  making  coffee. 
Always  have  your  coffee  pot  clean  when  making  coffee. 
Yes!  wash  it  every  time.  If  you  wish  to  warm  over  coffee, 
put  in  a  closed  vessel  and  heat  quickly,  having  drained  from 
the  grounds. 

I  offer  these  suggestions  as  helps  to  those  only  who 
need  help,  and  if  they  do  help  anyone  in  the  many  times 
discouraging  struggle  with  domestic  trials,  I  shall  be  glad. 

My  interest  has  been  with  the  "Household  Sisters"  for 
a  long  time,  and  while  I  have  a  helping  hand  let  me  in  the 
bonds  of  fraternity  extend  it  to  you,  one  and  all. 

Mrs.  Carrie  E.  Robinson. 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


I  heaped  up  quart  of  sifted  flour  is  I  pound. 

3  coffee  cups  even  full  of  flour  is  I  pound. 

4  teacups  even  full  of  flour  is  i  pound. 

I  quart  sifted  Indian  meal  is  i  pound. 

1  pint  soft  butter  is  i  pound. 

2  teacups  of  sugar  is  i  pound. 

7  heaped  tablespoons  of  sugar  equal  i  teacup. 
4  heaped  tablespoons  of  butter  equal  I  teacup. 
4  heaped  tablespoons  of  lard  equal  I  teacup. 


Weights  and  Measures  in  Cooking: — Weights  and 
measures  are  essential  in  cooking,  besides  being  often  a  great 
convenience  for  other  purposes;  but  it  is  some  trouble  for  a 
housekeeper  always  to  be  obliged  to  weigh  everything  where 
the  recipe  indicates  weight,  and  an  approximate  standard  or 
rule  for  guidance  will  frequently  prove  of  great  utility.  Of 
course  spoons,  cups,  tumblers,  and  even  pint  and  quart  meas- 
ures vary  to  a  certain  extent.  It  will,  therefore,  be  well  to 
verify  your  measures  by  a  sure  standard,  after  which  they 
may  be  used  instead  of  weights  for  convenience.  A  tum- 
bler, or  ordinary  coffee-cup  full  is  half  a  pint.  Eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  liquid  measure  a  gill.  A  pint  of  granulated  su-  ■ 
gar  is  about  a  pound.  Three  half-pints  of  dry  sifted  flour  are 
a  pound.  Four  even  teaspoonfuls  make  a  tablespoonful. 
One  very  heaping  teaspoonful  makes  a  round  tablespoonful. 
Eight  round  tablespoonf uls  make  half  a  pint.  Two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  cream  tartar  should  be  used  to  one  of  soda,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  to  a  quart  of  flour.  For  mixed  spices,  a 
good  proportion  consists  of  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
cinnamon  to  one  of  clove,  and  two  of  nutmeg,  or  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  ground  mace  instead.  A  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  allspice  may  be  added  in  mixing  for  spiced  cakes  or 
puddings.  When  a  teaspoonful  is  indicated  without  qualifi- 
cation, a  spoon  rounding  full  is  meant;  by  a  cupful  an  ordin- 
ary breakfast  cup  holding  about  half  a  pint.  A  broken  half 
pint  cupful  of  butter  weighs  nearly  half  a  pound,  while  a  sol- 
id half  pint  cupful  weighs  a  full  half  pound. 


THE 


COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


YEAST. 

One  dozen  good-sized  potatoes;  i  pint  hops,  i  teacup 
sugar;  I  teacup  salt;  I  tablespoon  ginger;  4  quarts  water;  to 
be  kept  in  a  jug  corked  tight;  a  cupful  of  good  yeast  or  two 
cakes  of  dry  yeast  to  start  it  with. 

Potato: — Wet  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  a  smooth 
paste;  boil  4  small  potatoes  or  3  large  ones,  mash  fine  and 
mix  with  flour,  pour  on  the  potato  water  until  right  consis- 
tency; when  nearly  cool  add  yeast  and  salt. 

To  1  cup  of  grated  raw  potato  add  y2  cup  salt  and  % 
cup  sugar;  pour  over  all  1  quart  boiling  water,  stirring  well; 
it  will  thicken  like  starch;  when  nearly  cold  add  1  cup  of 
good  yeast;  in  about  twelve  hours  it  should  be  light;  put  in 
a  jug  or  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

Hop: — Boil  1  handful  of  hops  in  2  quarts  water  about 
5  minutes;  strain,  while  hot,  upon  2  cups  of  flour,  stirring 
well;  when  cold  add  y2  cup  of  sugar;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  gin- 
ger; add  y2  cup  salt  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  With  this 
yeast  you  will  never  have  sour  bread  even  in  the  hottest 
weather. 

Two  cups  sliced  potatoes,  2  cups  parched  sweet  corn; 
2  cups  hops;  boil  4  hours.  As  it  boils  away  add  water  so 
when  done  there  will  be  a  gallon.  Strain  all  through  a  col- 
ander; when  cool  add  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  salt  and  y2  cup 
yeast.  Keep  in  a  warm  place  until  it  sparkles  then  it  is  ready 
for  use.    This  yeast  never  sours. 

Home-Made: — Peal  and  boil  1  dozen  large  potatoes; 
when  done  pour  off  water  and  mash;  take  a  large  handful  of 
hops  and  3  quarts  of  water;  let  it  boil  10  minutes,  then  strain 
over  potatoes;  when  cool  add  some  good  yeast,  y2  cup  of 
salt;  1  heaping  spoonful  of  ginger  and  little  sugar;  let  rise 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 


10 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Take  i}4  cups  corn,  brown  in  oven  like  coffee;  then  take 
about  3  handfuls  hops,  and  put  with  corn  in  a  closed  coarse 
sack  (a  common  3  Bb  salt  sack  does  very  well):  drop  the  sack 
in  an  ordinary  iron  kettle  %  full  of  water  in  which  you  have 
put  6  potatoes.  Boil  all  together  for  2  hours,  adding  water 
so  as  to  keep  kettle  %  full.  The  sack  of  corn  and  hops  may 
be  then  thrown  away;  leave  the  rest  of  the  mixture  to  cool; 
then  add  y2  cup  salt  and  put  all  through  a  cullender;  add  y2 
cup  sugar  and  1  pint  of  the  yeast  made  before  (or  if  none, 
3  or  4  yeast  cakes).  Put  in  glass  canning  jar;  leave  this  open 
over  night  in  a  warm  place:  next  day  close  tightly  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  This  makes  about  1  gallon;  to  set  bread  for 
about  4  loaves  use  %  of  a  cup  and  shake  well  before  using 

Soft  Yeast; — Pare,  boil  and  mash  through  a  colander 
five  good  sized  potatoes;  boil  a  few  hops  and  add  the  hop 
water  to  the  potato  water,  and  both  to  the  mashed  potatoes; 
take  1%  cups  of  flour  and  scald  with  boiling  water;  manage 
so  that  with  the  potato  water,  hop  water  and  water  poured 
on  the  flour,  your  yeast  when  cold  will  be  about  the  consis- 
tency of  boiled  custard.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  mentioned 
and  add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  the  same  of  sugar, 
and  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Bring  all  to  the  boiling  point; 
let  cool  partially,  then  add  I  soaked  yeast  cake;  set  in  a 
warm  place  and  let  rise;  do  not  use  inside  of  24  hours;  put 
in  glass  can  or  jar  and  cover  not  too  close  at  first,  lest  it  rise 
and  burst  the  can.  Rose  Seelye  Miller. 

Home-Made  Yeast: — One  tablespoonful  salt;  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  well  heaped; 
mix  well  while  dry;  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  well  and  set 
back  to  cool,  put  2  yeast  cakes  in  just  enough  warm  water 
to  cover;  when  mixture  is  cool,  stir  in  yeast  cakes,  keep 
quite  warm;  when  light  boil  10  or  12  medium  sized  potatoes 
in  a  gallon  of  water;  drain  off  into  crock;  mash  potatoes 
thoroughly;  add  to  water;  set  back  to  cool,  or  add  cold 
water;  stir  in  first  mixture  and  keep  quite  warm  until  light 
and  foamy;  keep  in  a  cool  cellar;  it  will  keep  2  weeks  in 
warm  weather. 

To  Set  the  Bread: — First  stir  yeast,  then  to  1  measure 
of  yeast  add  2  of  warm  water;  stir  quite  thick;  when  light 
add  salt;  mix  and  set  to  rise;  when  light  form  into  loaves 
without  much  kneading,  it  will  raise  very  quick. 

Blueblanket,  S.  D.  Mrs.  G.  L.  Vickery. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


I  I 


BREAD. 

White  Bread: — Set  bread  at  night,  taking  a  little  over 
3  quarts  of  warm  water  in  bread  pan;  i  large  spoonful  of 
salt,  and  stir  in  flour  until  quite  thick;  then  add  I  teacup  of 
home-made  yeast  well  stirred  in,  and  set  to  rise  until  morn- 
ing; then  knead  up  hard,  and  let  rise  again  in  pan  and  so  on 
until  it  has  raised  and  been  kneaded.  The  third  and  fourth 
time  knead  into  loaves,  when  light  with  a  hot  oven;  bake  I 
hour.  This  recipe  makes  9  large  loaves  of  bread;  keep  cov- 
ered in  a  warm  place  in  cold  weather,  Mrs.  M.  F.  C. 
Lisbon,  N.  D. 

One  and  one-half  magic  yeast  dissolved  in  \y2  cups  of 
warm  wTater  and  2  cups  flour;  let  rise  3  hours;  in  the  pan  are 
2  quarts  of  warm  water  and  3  gallons  of  flour;  let  rise  over 
night  until  about  7  o'clock,  when  add  2  quarts  water;  2  table- 
spoons salt;  work  and  let  rise  for  2  hours;  knead  it  again 
and  let  rise  for  2  hours;  then  knead  into  loaves  and  let  rise 
in  the  tins  for  an  hour;  then  bake  an  hour.  The  great  ob- 
ject is  to  keep  the  bread  always  warm.  In  the  winter 
cover  up  the  bread  pan  over  night  with  a  quilt,  or  some- 
thing good  and  substantial.  Cecile  Inez  Boughton. 

Corn  Bread: — One  quart  corn  meal;  1  quart  sour  milk; 
y2  teaspoonful  salt;  3  teaspoonsful  soda;  1  cup  dark  molas- 
ses; 1  quart  flour,  more  or  less;  steam  2^  hours;  bake  y2  an 
hour.  M.  D.  G. 

Des  Lacs,  N.  D. 

One  quart  sour  milk;  1  quart  corn  meal;  1  pint  flour;  1 
cup  molasses;  1  teaspoonful  each  salt  and  soda. 

I  pint  sifted  corn  meal;  1  egg;  1  teaspoon  salt;  almost 
a  pint  of  sweet  milk;  baking  powder;  bake  in  shallow  pan  or 
in  gem  pans.  R.  Vouches. 

Two  cups  flour;  2  cups  corn  meal;  1  cup  molasses;  y2 
cup  sugar;  iy  cups  milk;  1  teaspoonful  soda;  a  little  salt; 
steam  1  hour  and  bake  y2  an  hour.  Mrs.  D.  T. 

Hensel,  N.  D. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sour  or  butter  milk;  2  cups  corn 
meal;  ^  cup  flour;  y2  cup  sweet  cream;  1  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  milk;  3  eggs  well  beaten;  tablespoonful  sugar;  y2 
teaspoonful  salt;  bake  y2  an  hour  in  moderate  oven. 


12 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Sour  milk  i  quart;  saleratus  2  teaspoonsful; sugar  2  tea- 
spoonsful;  lard  1  tablespoonful;  2  eggs;  a  little  salt;  make  in 
thin  batter;  bake  in  bread  pan  and  quick  oven. 

One  quart  sweet  milk;  3  eggs;  2  tablespoonsful  sugar;  1 
teaspoontul  salt;  make  in  a  stiff  batter;  y$  flour;  y$  corn 
meal;  2  teaspoonsful  baking  powder;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk;  %  cup  of  molasses;  2  cups  corn 
meal;  1%  cups  of  white  flour;  1  teaspoonful  soda  and  a  lit- 
tle salt;  steam  3  hours  and  eat  while  hot. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk;  2  cups  of  sweet  milk;  2  cups  of 
corn  meal;  1  cup  of  flour;  2  tablespoonsful  of  sugar;  1  egg; 
y2  teaspoonful  of  saleratus;  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt;  to  be 
either  baked  or  steamed. 

Brown  Bread: — Two  cups  graham;  2  cups  corn  meal; 
1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sour  milk;  2  cups  warm  water;  1  tea- 
spoonful soda;  little  salt;  bake  1  hour  and  steam  2,  or  bake 
without  being  steamed.  Mrs.  L.  H.  W. 

Cummings,  N.  D. 

Three  cups  Indian  meal;  2  cups  graham  or  rye;  y2  cup 
molasses  (ormor-e);  %  cup  sour  milk;  1  teaspoonful  salt; 
1  teaspoonful  soda;  steam  3  hours  and  brown  in  oven  %  an 
hour.  Water  may  be  used  instead  of  sour  milk,  and  if  the 
mixture  stands  an  hour  before  steaming  it  will  improve  the 
bread.  Cecile  I.  Boughton. 

Mazeppa,  Minn. 

One  cup  molasses;  2  cups  sour  milk;  1  cup  flour;  2  cups 
corn  meal;  1  teaspoonful  soda  and  a  little  salt;  steam  3  hours. 
Monango,  N.  D.  Mrs.  O.  J.  S. 

One-half  cup  of  molasses;  1%  cups  of  sour  milk;  1  scant 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  1  cup  of  graham  flour;  1%  cups  of  corn 
meal  in  which  is  stirred  iy  teaspoonsful  of  soda;  stir  until 
quite  well  mixed;  pour  into  a  well  buttered  double  boiler; 
keep  water  in  lower  part  boiling;  cook  4  or  5  hours. 
St.  Cloud,  Minn.  Mrs.  Hattie  A.  McConnell. 

To  1  bowl  of  white  bread  sponge,  add  y  cup  tepid 
water;  y2  cup  butter;  1  tablespoonful  sugar;  knead  into  the 
dough  sufficient  graham  flour  to  handle,  but  not  to  make 
stiff;  put  into  a  well  buttered  bread  pan,  and  let  rise  for  2 
hours,  then  bake. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


13 


Graham  Bread. — 1  quart  of  bread  sponge;  y2  cup  of  su- 
gar; 1  teaspoon  salt;  stir  in  graham  until  stiff  and  finish 
like  white  bread. 

Mazeppa,  Minn.  Ethel  Segar. 

Graham  Bread. — One  quart  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  su- 
gar, 1  cup  yeast,  1  tablespoonful  butter  rubbed  in  the  flour, 
mix  as  hard  as  you  can  stir  with  a  spoon.  Let  it  rise  over 
night,  and  bake  in  loaves,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Miss  Caroline  M.  Weber. 

Graham  Bread: — One  quart  of  bread  sponge:  y2  cup  of 
sugar;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  stir  in  graham  until  stiff  and  finish 
like  white  bread.  Ethel  Segar. 

Mazeppa,  Minn. 

One  quart  of  graham  flour;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  yeast;  1 
tablespoonful  butter  rubbed  in  the  flour,  mix  as  hard  as  you 
can  stir  with  a  spoon.  Let  it  rise  over  night,  and  bake  in 
loaves;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    Miss  Caroline  M.  Weber. 

One  and  one-half  pint  of  warm  water;  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  y2  cup  brown  sugar;  y2  pint  sponge  graham  flour  to 
stir  stiff;  put  in  pans;  let  rise;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Dickey,  N.  D.  Mrs.  E.  B. 

To  Use  Stale  Bread. — Cut  the  bread  in  squares  or  dia- 
mond shape;  dip  in  a  thin  batter  mixed  as  you  would  for 
pancakes  only  thinner.  Fry  the  same  as  pancakes  only  put 
a  little  more  grease  on  the  griddle.  To  be  eaten  hot,  with 
butter  and  sugar  or  syrup.  Mrs.  C.  E.  F. 

Oatmeal  Bread. — Two  cups  of  oatmeal,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar  or  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  or  half  a  small  cake 
of  yeast  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Cook  the  oatmeal  for  porridge,  add  the  salt, 
and  when  cool,  add  the  yeast  and  molasses;  stir  in  enough 
wheat  flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon. 
Put  the  dough  into  bread  tins  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  very 
light.  Bake  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter.  The  above  is 
sufficient  for  two  loaves;  made  of  rolled  wheat  equally  as 
good.  Matron. 

ROLLS  AND  BISCUITS. 

Tea  Biscuits: — 1  quart  flour;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon 
tartaric  acid;  1  tablespoon  butter.  Mix  with  sweet  milk,  not 
too  stiff. 


14 


THE   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Graham  Rolls. — Two  cups  graham  meal;  ^  cup  ot 
flour;  i  egg;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar;  I  teaspoonful 
soda;  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  * 

Jokers. — Two  cups  graham  meal;  i  cup  of  flour;  a  lit- 
tle salt;  2  eggs  well  beaten,  added  after  flour  and  milk  are 
mixed  to  a  batter  thick  as  pound  cake.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Miss  Caroline  M.  Weber. 

Vienna  Rolls. — Two  quarts  of  flour,  i  pint  of  cold 
boiled  milk,  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  butter,  y2  tea- 
cup of  sugar,  tablespoon  of  salt,  compressed  yeast  y2  cake; 
makes  3  dozen. 

Cream  Rolls. — Four  eggs  to  quart  of  milk,  tablespoon 
of  butter,  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  Stable- 
spoons  of  flour;  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  separately,  very 
light;  to  be  eaten  hot. 

Rolls. — One  pint  bread  sponge;  1  pint  sweet  milk 
(boiled);  cup  butter  or  lard;  1  beaten  egg;  stir  two  heap- 
ing tablespoons  of  flour  into  boiling  milk;  add  the  butter 
and  beat  until  cool  enough  to  add  the  sponge  and  beaten 
egg;  mix  up  hard,  let  rise  and  when  light  take  a  knife  and 
cut  it  down,  let  rise  again,  roll  out  thin,  cut  with  cutter,  let 
rise  again,  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Glyndon,  Minn.  Mrs.  L.  A.  P. 

French  Rolls. — Two  quarts  sifted  flour,  one  quart  of 
new  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  to  milk  warm;  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  ofgoodyeast; 
set  the  sponge  over  night  and  knead  15  to  20  minutes  in  the 
morning,  then  let  rise  until  very  light  and  roll  out  to  half 
inch  thick  and  cut  out  like  cookies;  spread  with  butter  and 
double  over  together;  let  rise  until  very  light,  and  bake 
quickly. 

Cream  Biscuit. — Sift  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
with  a  quart  of  flour;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  1  cup  sweet 
cream;  roll  thin  and  put  into  a  piping  hot  oven  as  soon  as 
possible.  Or  use  one  cup  sour  cream  to  a  level  teaspoonful 
soda,  and  roll  lightly,  baking  in  a  hot  oven.  In  baking  pow- 
der biscuit  especially,  rub  the  biscuits  over  with  butter  as 
you  put  them  in  the  oven.  Some  one  said  that  no  woman 
who  is  naturally  slow  in  her  movements  can  make  good  bis- 
cuit. Cecile  I.  Boughton. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


15 


Tea  Rolls. — Two  cups  of  warm  milk;  2  cups  bread 
sponge;  butter  size  of  an  egg;  3  small  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
stir  flour  to  a  thickness  of  griddle  cakes,  to  be  mixed  about 
8  o'clock  in  morning  and  raised  until  12,  and  then  kneaded 
as  bread,  at  4  o'clock  make  into  rolls  and  dip  tops  in  melted 
butter,  let  raise  and  bake  20  minutes.  Mrs.  W.  B. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
yeast;  (or  one  and  one-half  dried  yeast  cake);  one  cup  of 
shortening;  one  quart  of  sweet  milk;  four  quarts  of  flour, 
before  sifting.  Put  the  milk  on  stove  to  scald;  add  the  but- 
ter while  milk  is  hot;  let  this  cool,  and  mix  in  enough  flour 
to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Add  to  this  the  sugar,  salt  and 
yeast,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  light  add 
the  rest  of  the  flour,  and  knead  in  a  loaf,  let  rise  again;  then 
cut  out  and  put  them  in  a  greased  pan,  and  let  them  rise 
again.  When  light  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  If 
wanted  for  breakfast  mix  them  at  night,  but  if  for  tea  mix 
them  in  the  morning.  Before  putting  them  in  the  oven  wash 
them  over  with  sweetened  milk  to  improve  the  looks  of  the 
crust.  M.  A.  O. 

RUSKS. 

Sweet  Rusks. — 1  quart  of  sweet  milk;  3  tablespoons  of 
yeast,  and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  let  it  rise  over  night; 
in  the  morning  add  1  cupful  of  lard  or  butter  (if  the  former 
salt  must  be  used)  rub  to  a  paste,  with  1  cupful  of  white  su- 
gar and  3  eggs,  reserving  the  white  of  1  egg  to  beat  to  a 
froth  with  a  little  sugar,  brush  over  the  top  of  the  rusks 
when  done.  Mix  with  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  make  in- 
to small  balls;  let  it  rise  very  light  and  bake. 

E.  Thomas. 

Two  teacups  raised  dough,  1  teacup  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
butter,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough; 
set  to  rise,  and  when  light,  mold  into  high  biscuits  and  let 
rise  again;  sift  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  top  and  place 
in  oven. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  yeast  and  1  cup  flour; 
mix  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  cup  sugar  andj^  cup 
of  butter,  creamed,  2  eggs,  reserving  the  white  of  one  beac- 
en  with  a  little  sugar  to  spread  over  tops. 


i6 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


One  cup  of  sugar,  I  quart  of  sweet  milk,  3  eggs,  y$  of  a 
cup  of  lard,  1  cup  of  raisins,  y2  cup  of  yeast;  let  rise  and 
then  mix  to  a  stiff  dough  and  let  rise  again,  and  then  roll 
in  small  balls  and  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  un- 
til a  light  brown. 

Tea  Rusks. — Three  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  %  of  a 
cup  of  sugar,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  melted,  2 
eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Rapid  City,  S.  D.  A  B. 

Rusks. — Two  teacups  raised  dough,  1  teacup  sugar,  y 
cup  of  butter,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Set  to  rise.  When  light  mould  into  high  bis- 
cuits and  let  rise  again.    Then  bake.  L.  A.  W. 

Cinnamon  Rusks. — One  quart  flour,  three  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  teaspoon  salt  and  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  take  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  a  soft 
dough.    Mould  into  biscuit  and  bake  immediately. 

Waterbury,  S.  D.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Will. 

Rusks. — Set  at  night — 1  pint  of  sweet  milk  (making 
sponge  as  for  bread)  add  salt  and  flour  and  either  a  cake  of 
compressed  yeast  or  old  fashioned  potato  yeast.  In  the 
morning  add  a  pint  of  warm  milk  in  which  has  been  melted 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  then  add  3  well  beaten  eggs 
and  a  good  teacup  of  sugar.  Work  well.  Let  it  rise. 
When  very  light  roll  out  and  cut  into  small  cakes  about 
\y  inches  thick.  When  risen  sufficiently  bake  a  light 
brown. 

Big  Rapids,  Mich.  Anon. 

MUFFINS  AND  WAFFLES. 

Muffins. — 1.  Mix  a  quart  of  wheat  flour  with  half  a 
teacupful  of  potato  yeast,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  lukewarm  milk,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  set  to  rise,  and  when 
very  light  turn  into  well-buttered  muffin  rings,  and  bake  a 
clear,  light  brown. 

One  quart  of  flour  with  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
sifted  in  the  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  2  eggs;  stir  the  egg  and  sugar  together,  add  water 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  bake  until  they  are  a  light 
brown. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Muffins  No.  2. — Two  coffee-cups  of  milk,  three  of  flour, 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar,  one  of  soda.  Take  half  your  milk,  half  yourflour, 
eggs,  salt,  butter,  and  cream  of  tartar;  beat  well  until 
smooth,  then  add  by  degrees  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  flour, 
and  lastly  the  soda,  mixed  with  a  little  flour. 

To  I  egg  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  of  butter;  stir 
wrell  together,  then  add  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
drop  in  hot  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

One  quart  flour  scant,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard,  2  eggs,  1  small  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

Graham  Muffins. — One  egg;  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar; 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  one  cup  of  sweet  milk; 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder;  graham  meal  to  make  bat- 
ter thick  enough  to  drop  in  rings  without  spreading.  Mix 
the  baking  powder  thoroughly  with  the  meal,  melt  the  but- 
ter and  mix  well  with  the  sugar  and  egg;  add  the  milk  and 
gradually  stir  in  the  meal.  Bake  in  rings  or  gem  pan  in  a 
hot  oven.  M.  A.  O. 

Graham  Muffins. — 1  egg,  yz  cup  sugar;  piece  butter 
size  of  an  egg;  I  cup  of  milk;  three  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder;  graham  meal  to  make  a  batter  thick  enough  to 
drop  into  muffin  rings  without  spreading;  mix  the  baking 
powder  thoroughly  with  the  meal;  melt  the  butter  and  mix 
with  the  sugar  and  egg:  add  the  milk  and  gradually  stir  in 
the  meal.    They  can  be  baked  in  gem  tins. 

Fullerton,  N.  D.  M.  A.  0. 

Rice  Waffles. — Take  a  large  coffee-cup  of  well-boiled 
rice,  stir  in  two  eggs  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quart  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  and  "self-raising"  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  If  the  flour  is  not  "self-raising"  put  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  of  soda.  See  that 
your  waffle-irons  are  well  heated  and  greased. 

Corn  Meal  Waffles. — Two  eggs,  yolks  well  beaten, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  pint  of  swreet  milk,  one  pint  of  meal  twice  sifted, 
half  teaspoon  of  soda;  and  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well 
beaten. 


i8 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


GEMS. 

Graham  Gems. — 3  eggs,  2  quarts  sour  cream,  or  milk;  r 
cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  butter;  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda; 
flour  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter.  Have  gem  pans  well  but- 
tered and  hot. 

Rochester,  Minn.  Mrs.  Waldrom. 

Graham  Gems. — cup  of  flour,  j£  cup  of  graham,  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  mix  soft  with  sweet  milk  and  pour  in 
cold  gem  pans. 

Buffalo.  S.  E.  L. 

Gems. — Three  eggs,  three  teaspoons  sugar,  one  cup  half 
filled  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  flour  to  make  a 
nice  thick  batter,  Have  your  gem  pans  burning  hot,  and 
bake  in  very  hot  oven. 

Mapleton,  N.  D.  .     Gertie  M. 

Breakfast  Gems. — 1  egg,  y2  cup  sweet  cream;  ^  cup 
sweet  milk;  a  little  salt;  1  level  teaspoon  soda;  2  level  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar;  flour  to  make  a  batter,  a  little  thicker 
than  for  cake;  bake  in  iron  gem  pans  which  are  smoking 
hot  and  well  buttered.  Nellie  Rees. 

Graham  Gems. — 1  egg;  2  tablespoons  sugar;  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  beat  together  and  add  I  cup  of  sour 
milk;  I  teaspoonful  of  soda;  2/z  graham,  y$  flour,  bake;  in 
quick  oven.  E.  F.  M. 

BUNS. 

Yeast  Buns. — 1  pint  warm  milk,  add  2  cups  yeast,  1  cup 
sugar,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  next  morning  add 

cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i1/,  pounds  currants,  flour  enough 
to  mould  up,  let  rise  three  hours,  bake  in  small  cakes. 

Des  Lacs,  N.  D  M.  P.  G. 

Buns. — One  half  cup  yeast,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  flour  enough  for  a  batter.  Let  raise  over  night.  In 
the  morning  add  one  cup  currants,  one  half  cup  butter,  two 
eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  knead  in  flour  as  for  bread  but  not 
too  stiff;  set  in  warm  place  and  when  light  shape  as  for  bis- 
cuit, and  when  light  again,  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Northfield,  Minn.  Miss  A.  J.  C. 

Bakers'  Buns. — y2  gallon  light  bread  sponge:  1  pint  of 
white  sugar;   1  pint  of  warm  milk  or  water;  T/2  pint  of  soft 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


butter  or  lard;  2  eggs  and  a  little  salt;  add  just  flour  enough 
to  make  a  very  soft  dough,  work  it  well  and  keep  warm  and 
let  raise;  work  down  and  cut  in  small  pieces  so  that  the 
buns  will  be  of  the  size  of  an  egg  when  rolled  round  (before 
they  are  flattened)  lay  about  4  inches  apart  in  a  bake  pan, 
let  rise,  then  mash  down  flat  with  the  hand,  let  rise  again 
and  bake  a  light  brown.    Are  splendid  while  fresh. 

Inkster,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  F.  W 

TOAST- 
Cream  Toast. — (Good)  Put  into  a  double  kettle  a 
pint  of  milk,  and  a  teacup  of  cream,  let  it  come  to  the  boil- 
ing point.  Then  add  a  large  tablespoon  of  good  butter,  and 
a  tablespoon  of  arrow  root,  -or  cornstarch,  wet  in  some 
cold  milk,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  let  it  boil  a  few  min- 
utes. Meanwhile  toast  slices  of  light  bread  a  day  or  two  old. 
Brown  these  evenly,  scrape  off  any  burnt  particles.  Have 
the  slices  of  even  size  and  neatly  trimmed.  Then  put  one 
or  two  slices  at  a  time  into  the  sauce  and  as  soon  as  they 
soften  all  through  put  them  into  a  covered  dish  kept  warm 
in  the  oven.  Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  layer.  Do 
the  wrork  quickly  and  serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Toast. — Take  a  pudding  dish,  grate  a  layer  of 
cheese  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  small  lumps 
of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of 
cheese  until  your  dish  is  full.  Have  bread  crumbs  on  top 
sprinkled  generously  with  lumps  of  butter.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  H.  S,  B. 

Egg  Toast. — Fill  a  platter  with  slices  of  toast  slightly 
moistened  and  well  buttered.  Break  eggs  on  a  plate  and 
drop  into  a  pan  of  hot  water.  When  cooked  place  one  on 
each  piece  of  toast,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Milk  Toast. — Toast  stale  bread  quickly  to  a  delicate 
brown;  dip  each  piece,  while  hot,  into  boiling  water.  Boil 
some  new  milk  in  a  sauce  pan,  adding  some  sweet  cream  and 
a  little  salt;  pour  over  the  toast  and  cover  closely.  It  will 
be  ready  to  serve  by  the  time  all  are  seated  at  the  table. 

French  Toast  no.  1. — Beat  very  light  1  or  2  eggs,  ac- 
cording to  the  quantity  of  toast  required,  and  stir  into  one 
or  two  cups  of  milk,  add  a  little  salt,  slice  some  bread  neat- 
ly, and  dip  each  slice  into  the  milk  and  egg  until  quite 
soaked,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  slice.    Lay  each  slice 


20 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


on  a  well  buttered  griddle  till  delicately  browned,  then  spread 
with  butter  and  serve  hot. 

French  Toast  no.  2. — Chop  cold  boiled  tongue  very 
fine,  mix  it  with  cream  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten. 
Set  over  the  fire  and  simmer  a  minute  or  two.  Pour  this 
mixture  upon  nicely  toasted  bread,  nicely  buttered.  Serve 
hot. 

One  pint  milk;  beat  2  eggs  light;  slice  up  ^  a  loaf  of 
stale  bread;  dip  slices  into  milk  and  egg  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
to  a  delicate  brown;  serve  hot. 

To  2  eggs  thoroughly  beaten  stir  1  pint  of  sweet  milk-, 
dip  your  dry  bread  into  the  mixture  till  wet  through;  have 
skillet  hot,  generously  buttered,  lay  bread  in  and  brown 
quickly  on  both  sides,  put  in  hot-covered  dish  and  send  to 
table  at  once. 

Asparagus  Toast. — Tie  asparagus  in  small  bunches; 
boil  in  saltwater  until  tender;  toast  bread  nice  brown;  pour 
water  enough  from  the  asparagus  to  moisten;  cut  the  strings 
and  lay  the  asparagus  between  each  slice;  pour  on  drawn 
butter;  cover  in  pan  in  oven  10  minutes;  serve  hot 

SOUPS. 

Beef  Soup  no.  i. — Crack  the  bone  of  a  shin  of  beef  and 
put  on  to  boil  in  as  many  quarts  of  cold  water  as  there  are 
pounds  of  meat;  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  each  quart; 
simmer  slowly  at  first,  skimming  as  often  as  any  scum  arises; 
let  boil  2  hours,  then  add  4  large  onions  sliced;  2  carrots 
sliced;  1  root  of  celery  cut  into  small  pieces,  or  a  teaspoon 
of  celery  salt.  When  the  vegetables  and  meat  are  done, 
strain  the  soup  and  return  to  the  kettle,  adding  a  tablespoon 
of  rice  for  each  quart,  and  boil  until  tender;  add  pepper  and 
salt  to  the  taste. 

Beef  Soup  no.  2. — Boil  a  soup  bone  the  day  before 
wanting  it*  skim  the  grease  off  next  day,  and  meltthe  jelly; 
add  spices  and  I  grated  carrot;  boil  3  eggs  hard,  mash 
smooth,  put  into  a  tureen,  and  pour  soup  over  them.  Serve 
with  crackers. 

Beef  Soup  no.  3. — (Very  nice)  Get  a  shin  bone  (called 
soup  bone)  have  it  well  broken  up;  put  on  to  cook  early  in 
the  morning,  covering  it  with  cold  water;  boil  it  down  half; 
add  a  handful  of  cabbage  shaved  fine;  2  potatoes  cut  fine;  a 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


21 


small  onion  sliced;  2  or  3  tomatoes,  or  some  canned  toma- 
toes; a  handful  of  rice  or  barley;  salt  to  taste;  boil  an  hour 
or  two  more  and  if  for  a  family  dinner,  take  the  meat  out, 
pour  the  soup  into  a  pan,  let  it  stand  long  enough  to  cool,  so 
that  the  grease  can  be  skimmed  off;  put  back  into  the  ket- 
tle, heat,  and  serve.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Potato  Soup. — For  one  quart  of  milk,  boil  and  mash 
four  medium  sized  potatoes;  add  a  ittle  butter  and  salt; 
boil  the  milk  with  a  little  celery  root;  put  over  the  pota- 
toes; beat  three  eggs  well,  and  stir  into  the  soup  when  it 
boils  up;  serve  immediately.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Pea  Soup — (Good  and  economical.)  Take  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  split  peas,  2  onions,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Use 
3  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  from  5  to  6  hours,  (stew  slowly). 
If  the  water  is  hard,  add  soda,  not  larger  than  a  pea.  It 
would  be  difficult  to  find  a  way  in  which  the  same  amount  of 
nourishment  could  be  obtained  for  four  times  what  this 
costs.  Matron. 

Carrot  Soup. — 1  gallon  of  water;  1  beef  bone  or  soup 
bone.  Scrape  and  wash  half  a  dozen  large  carrots,  grate  on 
a  vegetable  grater;  add  to  soup  with  a  head  of  celery  and 
half  a  dozen  onions  washed  and  cut  fine;  1  parsnip  quar- 
tered. Salt  to  taste.  Boil  2  hours  and  a  half.  Potato  soup 
made  same  way,  with  only  2  grated  carrots  and  8  potatoes 
cut  fine;  celery,  onions,  etc.  Quillwood  Farmer. 

Salsify  Soup,  (delicious). — Cut  the  root  into  thin 
slices  and  put  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt,  cook 
until  very  tender.  Add  plenty  of  milk  to  the  water  in  which 
they  were  cooked,  a  generous  piece  of  butter,  a  few  oyster 
crackers  rolled  and  seasoned  with  pepper.  Add  more  salt  if 
necessary,  and  serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

Mrs.  Polka. 

Tomato  Soup. — 1  quart  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes 
boiled  in  about  a  quart  of  water  until  soft;  add  1  teaspoon 
soda  and  strain;  then  4  cups  of  milk;  season  with  salt, 
butter  and  pepper  to  taste;  boil  a  moment  and  serve  with 
oyster  crackers  or  squares  of  toasted  bread.  Very  much 
like  oyster  soup.  Cecile  Inez  Boughton. 

Asparagus. — Make  strong  beef  broth  well  seasoned 
with  tomatoes;  2  bunches  of  asparagus  cut  in  small  pieces, 


22 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


cook  separately;  when  tender  pour  into  broth.  Before 
serving  add  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  to  broth;  cut  bread  into 
dice-like  forms,  fry  brown  in  butter  and  add  just  before 

serving. 

Oyster  Stew. — For  two  stews  take  I  cup  of  oysters,  y2 
cup  of  water,  I  spoonful  of  butter,  place  in  a  stewpan  and 
boil  exactly  3  minutes.  Then  add  3  cups  of  rich  milk,  al- 
ready warmed,  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  rise  ready  to  boil, 
then  remove  from  fire,  salt  and  serve  hot. 

Green  Pea  Soup.— Prepare  3  pints  of  shelled  peas;  put 
\y2  pints  on  to  boil  in  clean  cold  water;  boil  until  very  ten- 
der, then  mash;  add  the  remaining  iy2  pints  and  when  they 
are  almost  done  add  a  quart  of  new  milk,  a  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg;  some  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  hot 
with  oyster  crackers.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

German  Soup. — Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  any  veal 
bones,  and  some  good  stock;  then  add  1  or  2  turnips,  I  car- 
rot, and  some  onions9  a  little  lemon  and  thyme,  and  a  small 
stick  of  celery.  Let  all  boil  well,  strain  it  for  use,  then 
thicken,  and  add  the  yolks  of  five  or  six  eggs  to  about  3 
quarts  of  soup,  and  1  gill  of  cream;  pepper  andsalt  to  taste. 
An  excellent  soup. 

Pea  Soup. — Shell  y2  peck  of  green  peas,  mash  the  pods 
and  put  them  in  cold  water;  boil  them  until  tender,  drain 
and  throw  away.  Put  the  peas  in  this  water  and  boil  until 
tender.  Take  out  a  pint  and  mash  them.  Put  back  into  the 
soup-kettle,  and  add  2  pints  of  new  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Rub  a  small  teacup  of  butter  and  2  ounces  of  flour  together, 
and  stir  into  the  soup.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
serve. 

Monango,  N.  D.  Minnie  A.  Oberman. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


23 


MEATS. 

-  MEATS  AND   THEIR  ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

With  roast  beef,  grated  horse  radish. 

Roast  pork,  apple  sauce. 

Roast  veal,  tomato  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Roast  mutton,  currant  jelly. 

Boiled  mutton,  caper  sauce. 

Boiled  chicken,  bread  sauce. 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Roast  turkey,  cranberry  sauce. 

Boiled  turkey,  oyster  sauce. 

Venison  or  wild  ducks,  black  currant  jelly. 

Broiled  fresh  mackerel,  sauce  of  stewed  gooseberries. 

Boiled  blue-fish,  white  "cream"  sauce. 

Boiled  shad,  boiled  rice  and  salad. 

Compote  of  pigeons,  mushroom  sauce. 

Fresh  salmon,  green  peas,  "cream"  sauce. 

Roast  goose,  apple  sauce.  Matron. 

Veal  Loaf: — Chop  4  pounds  of  raw  veal  and  1  pound 
of  smoked  ham  very  fine  together,  then  add  I  pint  dry  bread 
crumbs,  1  teaspoonful  salt  teaspoonful  pepper,  sage,  all- 
spice, and  2  well  beaten  eggs  mix  thoroughly;  put  in  a  pan 
and  weight  down  I  hour.  When  moulded  glaze  with  wrhite 
of  egg;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  2  hours,  basting  often  with  hot 
water  and  butter;  slice  thin  when  cold.         Mrs.  F.  A.  P. 

Veal  Loaf: — 2^  pounds  veal;  %  of  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork;  all  chopped  fine;  4  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine;  2  well 
beaten  eggs;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage;  form  into  a 
loaf  and  bake  in  the  oven;  baste  at  intervals  with  salt  water. 

Fullerton,  N.  D.  M.  A.  O. 

Beef  Loaf: — 2  pounds  perfectly  lean  beef  chopped  fine; 
I  large  slice  of  bread  crumbs;  2  well  beaten  eggs;  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
add  sufficient  sweet  milk  to  form  into  a  loaf;  bake  in  a  deep 
dripping  pan;  bake  until  when  pierced  with  a  fork  the  juice 
will  not  be  red;  drain  off  all  the  juice  and  turn  loaf  on  to  a 
platter  to  cool,  then  slice.    Very  nice  for  tea  or  luncheon. 

Fullerton,  N.  D.  M.  A.  O. 

Breast  of  Veal  With  Oyster  Sauce: — Rub  the  veal 
over  with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
then  with  a  coarse  paste;  place  in  the  oven  with  some  water 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


in  the  pan  and  baste  often  to  prevent  the  paste  from  burn- 
ing. y2  an  hour  before  serving,  remove  the  paste  and  pa- 
per; beat  the  white  of  an  egg;  add  a  little  loaf  sugar;  wet  the 
veal  with  this  and  brown  nicely;  prepare  drawn  butter  with 
oysters  and  serve  in  a  tureen  with  celery  and  mashed  pota- 
toes. Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Corning  Beef: — For  100  pounds  of  beef  take  7  pounds 
of  salt;  2  of  sugar;  2  ounces  of  saltpetre;  2  ounces  pepper;  2 
ounces  baking  soda;  dissolve  in  2^  gallons  of  water;  boil 
and  skim,  and  let  cool.  When  a  scum  rises  after  a  few 
weeks,  scald,  and  skim  the  brine  over,  and  by  so  doing,  and 
keeping  the  meat  entirely  covered  with  brine,  it  will  keep  a 
year  or  more. 

Another: — Cut  the  beef  in  small  pieces,  leaving  out  the 
large  bones,  pack  in  large  crocks  and  put  a  weight  on. 
Pour  over  the  beef  boiling  hot  brine  made  as  follows:  For 
every  2  gallons  of  water;  3  pounds  of  salt;  1  ounce  saltpetre; 
I  pound  sugar,  and  2  large  spoonfuls  of  soda.  After  2  weeks 
heat  and  skim  the  brine;  repeat  when  necessary  but  never 
put  the  brine  on  hot  after  the  first  time.  If  the  weather  is 
hot  a  handful  of  salt  and  soda  can  be  added  at  any  time — be 
sure  the  brine  covers  the  meat;  cover  closely. 

Frying  or  roasting  up  meat  (killed  in  hot  weather)  and 
covering  with  its  fat  will  keep  very  good,  and  is  easy  to 
warm  over  when  needed.    I  have  found  this  very  good. 

Leeds,  N.  D.  Mrs.  3 

Beefsteak  With  Oysters: — Strain  30  oysters;  boil  the 
liquor  and  skim  well;  when  clear  from  all  scum,  drop  in  the 
oysters,  just  as  the  liquor  comes  to  a  boil;  when  the  gills 
have  turned,  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled  smooth 
in  1  tablespoonful  of  flour;  add  sufficient  pepper  and  salt; 
have  a  nice  steak,  well  broiled,  on  a  hot  platter,  with  some 
butter  spread  over  it;  pour  the  oysters,  as  soon  as  done,  over 
the  steak  and  serve  hot. 

Another  Good  Preparation  For  Veal: — Take 
pounds — the  thick  part  of  the  leg  preferable,  with  the  tough 
tendonous  parts  removed — chop  it  fine  without  cooking;  mix 
well  with  4  soda  crackers  rolled  fine;  3  well  beaten  eggs;  1 
tablespoon  of  salt;  1  teaspoonful  pepper;  2  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  or  a  small  piece  of  butter;  make  into  a  loaf,  and  bake 
in  a  dripping  pan  without  water;  with  quick  heat  at  first  to 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


25 


close  the  outside  and  retain  the  juices;  continue  the  baking 
1%  hours;  serve  cut  in  thin  slices.  An  excellent  lunch  for 
traveling. 

Veal  Steak: — Take  2  pounds  round  veal  steak;  fry  well- 
done  in  I  tablespoonful  butter;  and  I  tablespoonful  lard;  salt 
to  taste;  beat  I  egg;  dip  steak  in  it;  roll  in  fine  rolled  crack- 
er crumbs;  fry  again  in  a  little  butter  to  a  brown  crisp  on 
both  sides. 

Dried  Beef: — Slice  the  beef  as  thin  as  possible;  put  in 
a  sauce  pan;  cover  with  cold  water;  set  over  the  fire  until  it 
slowly  comes  to  aboil;  drain  off  all  the  water;  add  a  pint 
of  rich  cream  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  use  rich  milk  and  some 
butter;  if  milk  is  used,  thicken  with  flour. 

Pressed  Beef: — For  12  persons  take  6  pounds  of  beef, 
boil  till  very  tender,  leaving  only  1  quart  of  liquor;  take  the 
meat  out  and  let  it  get  cold;  then  chop  very  fine;  mix  in 
cloves,  cinnamon,  pepper,  celery  seed  and  mustard;  pour  the 
liquor  over  it  and  mix  well;  then  put  in  a  crock  and  place  a 
weight  on  it.    Cut  next  day.    It  is  nice. 

Ox  Tail  Stew: — Cut  2  tails  in  pieces  4  inches  long;  let 
3  large  spoonfuls  of  butter  get  hot  in  a  pan;  add  1  onion; 
y2  a  carrot;  3  slices  of  turnips;  2  stalks  of  celery;  when 
brown  add  2  spoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  well:  put  in  the  tails;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt;  and  \y2  cups  of  water  and  simmer 
3  hours;  serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Breakfast  Dish  Of  Beef: — Chop  fine  as  much  cold 
beef  as  is  required;  add  a  pint,  more  or  less,  of  good  soup 
stock;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  ground  cloves;  thicken 
with  browned  flour;  pour  boiling  hot  over  bits  of  nicely 
toasted  bread;  garnish  wTith  slices  of  lemon,  if  you  have  them 
and  serve  hot. 

A  Nice  Way  to  use  the  Meat  on  Ham  Bones: — After 
all  the  frying  meat  has  been  cut  off,  there  is  usually  a  good 
deal  of  good  meat  still 'left  on  the  bone.  A  great  many 
boil  this  on  the  bone;  but  I  think  a  much  nicer  and  more 
delicate  way  is  to  chip  off  from  the  bone  all  that  is  possible. 
Cut  in  small  pieces;  then  put  in  enough  water  to  cover  it; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  then  pour  the  water  off;  your  meat 
is  now  ready  to  make  a  stew  that  is  fit  for  the  king. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  F. 


26  THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 

/ 

Rolled  Beefsteak: — Choose  a  nice  round  or  large 
sirloin  steak;  take  out  the  bone  and  beat  the  meat  flat;  chop 
a  slice  of  salt  pork  and  put  it  into  the  spider  to  cook;  add  a 
little  butter  and  a  small  onion,  chopped;  when  the  latter  is 
turning  brown,  put  in  a  pint  or  less  of  bread  crumbs,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  steak;  mix  together  and  season  to  taste 
with  pepper,  salt  and  thyme;  spread  this  dressing  on  the 
meat,  then  begin  at  one  end  and  roll  the  steak  carefully;  tie 
in  shape  and  put  in  a  pan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven;  pour  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  over  it,  and  cover  close  with  another 
pan  to  keep  the  steam  in;  in  y2  an  hour  take  off  the  top  pan 
and  baste  the  meat  with  the  drippings  and  finally  with  melt- 
ed butter.  The  water  should  all  evaporate  and  the  meat  be 
kept  well  basted  after  removing  the  cover.  When  brown 
and  tender,  place  it  on  a  hot  platter;  clip  the  threads  in  a 
number  of  places  and  pull  them  off  without  spoiling  the 
shape  of  the  roll;  put  a  teaspoon  of  flour  into  the  pan;  mash 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  brown,  then  add  water  by  de- 
grees until  it  is  the  right  thickness;  season  to  taste  with 
pepper,  salt  and  tomato  catsup,  and  pour  on  the  meat. 

Mrs.  Polka. 

Fried  Liver: — Cut  in  thin  slices,  liver  enough  for  one 
meal,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand  for 
about  five  minutes  well  covered  with  water.  Take  out  piece 
by  piece  and  roll  in  flour  before  placing  them  in  a  frying  pan 
of  hot  drippings  of  lard,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  cover.  Let 
it  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  done,  turning  occasionally  to 
insure  evenness  in  cooking.  "Dakotan." 

Irish  Stew: — 2  pounds  of  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced; 
2  pounds  of  mutton;  2  pounds  of  beef;  6  large  onions  sliced; 
a  slice  of  ham ;  a  spoonful  of  pepper;  and  2  of  salt.  Mix  to- 
gether in  a  stew  pan  with  half  a  pint  of  water.  Let  the 
whole  stew  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  be  very  careful  it  does 
not  burn.  Quitwood  Farm. 

Veal  and  Ham  Breakfast  Pastry: — Chop  equal  parts 
of  cold  boiled  ham  and  veal;  put  into  a  baking  dish  in  lay- 
ers, with  slices  of  cold  hard  boiled  eggs  between;  boil  the 
water  in  which  the  veal  was  cooked,  leaving  the  bones  in  till 
it  jellies;  flavor  it  with  celery,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  pour 
over  the  meat;  cover  with  a  pie  crust  an  inch  thick,  and 
bake  until  the  crust  is  done.  This  is  to  be  eaten  cold  and  is 
very  nice  for  picnics.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


27 


Stewed  Beef: — A  piece  of  beef,  say  3  pounds,  2  or  3 
inches  thick;  fry  out  a  few  pieces  of  salt  pork  with  an  onion; 
fry  brown;  then  put  in  the  beef  and  cover  with  water;  boil 
slowly  4  hours;  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  add  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup  for  seasoning. 

Beef's  Liver  and  Tongue  Cheese: — Boil  a  beefs  liver 
and  tongue;  chop  fine;  add  y2  pound  boiled  fresh  pork,  also 
chopped  fine;  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  If  you 
have  no  meat  press,  tie  in  a  cloth,  or  put  it  in  a  pan  and 
press  it  hard.  In  a  few  hours  it  will  come  out  in  a  solid 
cake.    Slice  thinly  for  supper. 

Corned  Beef  Hash: — Boil  the  beef  till  tender;  when 
cold,  chop  fine;  to  1  cup  of  chopped  meat  allow  4  cups  of 
chopped  potatoes;  mix;  put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan 
over  the  fire;  add  a  dust  of  pepper  when  the  butter  is  melted; 
put  in  the  hash;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  stir  together; 
when  it  becomes  hot,  stir  from  the  bottom:  cover  and  set 
where  it  will  cook  slowly. 

Spiced  Beef: — Chop  tough  beefsteak,  raw,  and  a  piece 
of  suet  the  size  of  an  egg;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  any 
spice  preferred;  add  2  eggs;  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs;  4  or 
5  tablespoonfuls  of  cream;  a  small  piece  of  butter;  mix;  and 
make  it  into  a  roll  with  flour  enough  to  keep  it  together;  put 
in  a  pan  with  a  little  dripping,  and  bake  as  a  roast;  slice  thin 
when  cold. 

Smoked  Beef  and  Eggs: — Boil  6  eggs  hard;  chop  them 
fine;  sprinkle  them  with  pepper;  soak  %  of  a  pound  of 
shaved  smoked  beef  10  minutes  in  cold  water;  take  it  out 
and  pull  it  in  shreds,  or  cut  it  up  fine,  and  pour  boiling  wa- 
ter over  it;  let  it  stand  10  minutes.  During  that  time  make 
a  gravy  by  putting  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  frying  pan,  letting  them  cook  to- 
gether until  they  are  smoothly  blended;  after  which  add 
some  water  from  the  beef;  then  put  in  the  eggs  and  beef;  let 
them  get  well  heated  through  and  serve  hot. 

Frizzled  Beef  and  Eggs: — Put  1  pound  of  shaved 
dried  beef  in  a  pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  when 
thoroughly  cooked  pour  over  it  six  well  beaten  eggs; 
sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  them;  stir  constantly,  adding 
more  butter  if  necessary,  until  the  eggs  are  cooked;  serve 
hot.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Beef  Croquettes:— Use  cold  roast  or  boiled  beef;  chop 
fine;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  y$  the  quantity  of 
bread  crumbs;  and  moisten  with  a  little  milk;  have  your 
hands  floured;  rub  the  meat  into  balls;  dip  into  beaten  egg; 
then  into  pulverized  cracker  dust  and  fry  in  butter;  garnish 
with  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

Beefsteak  Pie: — A  paste  made  of  I  pound  of  flour;  and 
y2  pound  of  beef  suet  minced  very  fine,  is  nice  for  this  pie; 
line  the  sides  of  the  dish;  place  in  your  steak;  trimmed  free 
from  bone  and  part  of  the  fat;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
add  lumps  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Baked  Ham: — Cover  your  ham  with  cold  water  and 
simmer  gently  for  2  or  3  hours,  or  until  the  skin  is  loosened; 
take  it  out  of  the  kettle,  skin  it;  place  it  in  a  dripping  pan 
with  2  cups  of  boiling  water  and  I  of  vinegar,  in  which  a 
teaspoonful  of  English  mustard  has  been  dissolved,  bake 
slowly;  basting  with  the  liquid  frequently;  when  quite  done 
cover  the  ham  with  brown  sugar  pressing  it  down  firmly, 
over  which  dredge  a  little  flour;  replace  in  the  oven  and  let 
it  become  a  rich  golden  brown  color;  when  done  drain  from 
the  liquid  and  put  on  a  dish  to  cool;  then  turn  another  flat 
dish  or  pie  tin  on  top  with  a  weight  on  it  to  press  it. 

Dakotan. 

Pickled  Ham: — To  every  100  pounds  of  ham,  take  7 
pounds  of  salt;  1  ounce  of  saltpetre;  1  quart  of  brown  sugar 
or  molasses  and  8  gallons  of  water.  Put  the  water,  salt,  salt- 
peter, sugar  or  molasses;  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Keep  taking 
off  the  scum  until  there  is  no  more  and  pour  it  over  the  ham. 
It  may  taste  better  with  less  salt,  but  will  not  keep  as  well, 

Mazeppa,  Minn.  Ethel  Segar. 

Pickled  Pork: — I  slaughter  my  hogs  one  day  and  cut 
them  up  the  morning  of  the  next  day,  except  that  the  "leaves" 
may  be  removed  the  evening  of  the  killing.  Hang  the  hogs 
up  and  let  them  cool  over  night.  Then  cut  them  up.  Be 
neat  about  it.  Trim  your  hams  and  shoulders  up  nicely. 
Don't  cut  your  pickled  pork  pieces  up  too  large.  Lay  them 
out  on  boards  side  by  side,  for  a  day  longer,  then  commence 
packing  them  away.  Take  a  clean  washing  tub,  and  along- 
side of  it  have  a  quantity  of  fine  salt,  best  make;  rub  two  hand- 
f  uls  on  each  piece  in  the  tub,  then  pass  it  to  some  one  else  to 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


29 


pack  down  in  the  barrel.  A  new  molasses  barrel,  well 
cleaned  out,  is  a  good  salting  vessel.  In  the  bottom  of  this 
place  two  or  three  inches  of  coarse  salt.  Get  the  best,  it  is 
always  the  cheapest,  Place  a  layer  of  pork  that  has  been 
previously  fine-salted  in  on  the  salt,  packed  as  close  togeth- 
er as  you  can  do  it.  Upon  this  layer  of  pork  put  an  inch  or 
so  of  coarse  salt  and  sprinkle  some  rock  salt  on  top  of  it. 
Then  another  layer  of  pork,  then  salt  again,  until  the  pork  is 
near  the  top.  Make  a  round  lath  gate  to  fit  in  the  barrel  on 
top  of  the  pork  and  place  on  this  clean  stones  for  weights. 
Put  a  brine  on  this  and  always  keep  the  brine  above  the 
pork.  Never  let  it  get  uncovered.  If  scum  should  arise 
pour  off  brine,  boil  in  farmer's  boiler  and  put  on  again,  after 
adding  more  salt.  Good  salt  and  plenty  of  it;  good  brine 
and  plenty  of  it,  with  a  close  eye  to  see  that  the  pork  is  al- 
ways covered  and  the  brine  in  proper  condition,  and  there  is 
no  reason  why  you  should  not  have  good,  sweet  pickled 
pork.  Great  care  must  be  used  in  the  selection  of  salt. 
Buy  it  from  a  reliable  dealer,  one  you  can  trust  implicitly. 
The  loss  of  pickled  pork  can  be  generally  traced  to  inferior 

The  Home-Maker. 

Minced  Veal  With  Cream  and  Egg: — Boil  a  fresh  egg 
for  20  minutes;  while  it  is  boiling  pick  the  cold  veal  into 
small  pieces;  heat  1  cup  of  the  veal  with  %  of  a  cup  of  wa- 
ter, but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil;  season  with  salt  and  a  dust 
of  red  pepper;  wrhen  hot  add  y2  a  cup  of  cream  sauce  made 
as  follows:  Rub  to  a  cream  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
sifted  flour;  and  1  of  butter;  thea  stir  into  a  y2  cup  of  boil- 
ing milk,  stirring  until  it  thickens;  add  it  to  the  veal;  chop 
the  egg  and  add  it;  as  soon  as  it  boils  take  from  the  fire;  lay 
pieces  of  toast  on  a  small,  hot  meat  dish;  pour  over  them 
the  veal;  and  garnish  with  points  of  toast  and  parsley. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Sea  Pie: — Put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  onions;  then 
a  layer  of  salt  beef  or  pork  cut  in  slices;  a  layer  of  potatoes; 
I  of  meat  and  another  of  onions.  Strew  pepper  and  a  little 
allspice  over  all;  and  cover  with  a  thick  crust.  Bake  2  hours 
and  serve  hot.  Quitwood  Farm. 

Boiling  Meat: — When  meat  is  to  be  boiled,  be  sure  and 
put  it  into  boiling  water  to  start  with;  as  that  closes  the 
pores  instantly  and  keeps  the  richness  in  the  meat.  When 
boiling  it  for  soups  or  bouillon,  put  it  into  cold  water  and 


3° 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


bring  it  to  boiling  heat  as  slowly  as  possible,  for  in  this  case 
our  object  is  to  extract  the  strength  and  richness  from  the 
meat,  instead  of  keeping  it  in. 

Meat  Loaf: — 2  pounds  of  raw  or  underdone  beef  or  veal 
minced  fine;  quarter  pound  ham,  also  minced;  2  eggs;  y2  cup 
fine  bread  crumbs;  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter;  pepper, 
salt,  chopped  onion,  and  herbs  for  seasoning  to  taste;  work 
all  the  ingredients  well  together;  and  press  closely  into  a 
brick  shaped  tin.  Cover  this;  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water; 
and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  taking  care  that  the  boiling 
water  does  not  cook  away.    Turn  out  and  slice  when  cold. 

Use  for  Cold  Meat:— Chop  fine  any  cold  meat,  fat  and 
lean  together;  add  pepper,  salt  and  a  finely  chopped  onion; 
2  slices  of  bread  which  have  been  soaked  in  milk  and  1  egg; 
mix  well  and  bake  in  a  form.    Mrs.  J.  S.  W.  Northfield. 

Sausage  Meat: — 6  pounds  of  lean  meat,  pork;  3  pounds 
fresh  fat  pork;  4  teaspoonfuls  sage;  6  teaspoonfuls  pepper; 
6  teaspoonfuls  salt;  y  teaspoonful  cloves;  y2  teaspoonful 
nutmeg;  mix  thoroughly  with  a  spoon  or  the  hands  and 
press  firmly  into  pans;  cut  out  in  slices  and  fry.    Very  nice. 

Page,  N.  D.  Mrs.  R.  R.  B. 

Meat  Croquette: — Use  cold  roast  beef;  chop  it  fine; 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  y$  the  quantity  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  moisten  with  a  little  milk;  have  your  hands 
floured;  rub  the  meat  into  balls,  dip  it  into  beaten  egg,  then 
into  fine  pulverized  cracker  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed; 
garnish  with  parsley.  * 

Beef  Croquettes: — Chop  fine  3  pounds  of  raw  beef- 
steak; suet  size  of  an  egg  and  a  small  piece  of  onion;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg;  put  in  2  well-beaten 
eggs  and  half  a  teacup  of  cold  water;  roll  fine  5  or  6  soda 
crackers  and  add  to  the  mixture;  sprinkle  the  hands  with 
flour  and  form  into  balls;  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter  until 
light  brown;  add  a  little  water  and  let  them  simmer  20  min- 
utes; serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

Beef  Loaf: — Grind  2  or  3  pounds  of  fresh  beef  with  a 
sausage  mill;  add  2  eggs;  8  tablespoons  rolled  crackers; 
butter  size  of  an  egg;  cup  sweet  milk;  sage,  pepper  and 
salt.  Mrs.  Wm.  B. 

Mock  Sweetbreads: — To  1  pound  of  raw  veal,  minced 
fine  add  I  pound  of  beef  suet    chopped  fine;  season  with 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


31 


pepper  and  salt;  beat  thoroughly  together;  mould  in  the 
shape  of  sweetbreads;  dip  into  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an 
egg;  fry  in  fat.  Mrs.  L.  E.  H. 

Veal  Sweetbreads: — Scald  in  salt  and  water  and  re- 
move the  stringy  part;  put  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes;  dry 
in  a  cloth;  dip  in  eggs  and  bread  crumbs;  fry  brown  in  but- 
ter; take  out;  pour  in  a  pan  a  cup  of  cream,,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  flour;  boil  up  and  pour  over 
the  breads;  serve  hot. 

Stewed  Veal: — Cut  the  meat  in  pieces;  put  them  into 
the  dinner  pot;  add  3  pints  of  water;  put  in  1  onion;  some 
pepper  and  salt,  and  let  stew  I  hour;  then  add  sliced  pota- 
toes and  make  a  good  crust,  and  put  in  and  stew  until  the 
potatoes  are  done,  about  half  an  hour;  the  crust  may  be 
made  into  biscuits. 

Curried  Veal: — 1  pound  veal;  ounce  of  butter;  a  lit- 
tle pepper  and  salt;  a  full  desert  spoonful  of  curry  powder; 
a  small  apple;  a  small  onion;  y2  a  pint  of  cold  water;  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream;  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  y2  pound  of  rice. 
First  cut  lean  veal  into  small  pieces,  then  make  very  hot  the 
butter;  put  in  the  veal  and  brown  well  on  both  sides;  when 
this  is  done  add  the  apple  grated,  also  the  onion  sliced  thin 
and  the  curry  powder,  after  which  mix  thoroughly  together 
and  add  some  pepper  and  salt;  then  very  slowly  add  the 
cold  water;  when  it  begins  to  boil  draw  the  pan  to  one  side 
and  allow  to  simmer  very  slowly  for  2  hours. 

Rice  for  the  Curry: — Wash  well  in  cold  water;  plunge 
into  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  boil  rapidly  for  15  minutes. 
In  boiling  each  grain  should  be  separate,  and  unless  you 
have  plenty  of  hot  water  it  will  not  separate  nicely.  Old 
rice  requires  a  longer  time  to  boil.  After  plunging  in  hot 
water,  put  lid  on  till  it  begins  to  boil,  then  remove  the  lid. 
If  the  grains  rub  away  in  the  fingers  it  is  done;  when  done 
turn  on  a  wire  sieve.  After  the  veal  has  cooked  2  hours, 
add  the  juice  of  ^  a  lemon  and  the  cream;  pile  the  rice 
around  the  edge  of  the  plate  and  pour  the  curry  into  the 
center  and  serve. 

Fried  Veal  Cutlets: — Wet  in  beaten  egg;  roll  in  bread 
crumbs;  fry  well-done  in  melted  butter;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt. 

Veal  Loaf: — 2  pounds  of  veal  chopped  fine;  2  large 
cups  of  bread  crumbs;  2  eggs;  1  even  tablespoonful  of  salt 


32 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


and  pepper  mixed;  sage  to  taste;  a  little  butter;  bake  about 

1  hour;  press  down  very  firmly  in  the  dish  before  baking  and 
it  can  then  be  sliced  very  thin. 

Calf's  Liver  Fried: — Slice  the  liver  smoothly  and  lay 
in  salt  and  water  to  draw  out  the  blood;  wipe  dry  and  lard 
each  slice  with  pieces  of  fat  salt  pork,  drawn  through  at 
regular  distances  and  projecting  'slightly  on  each  side;  fry 
brown.  When  done  arrange  the  slices  neatly  on  a  hot  dish 
and  set  aside  where  they  will  keep  hot;  add  to  the  gravy 
in  the  frying  pan  a  chopped  onion;  y2  a  cup  of  hot  water; 
pepper;  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  thicken  with  browned  flour; 
boil  up  well;  pour  over  the  liver  and  serve  hot. 

Calf's  Liver  Baked: — Cut  a  long  strip  of  fat  pork  an 
inch  wide;  enclose  it  in  the  middle  of  the  liver,  and  lay  the 

2  sides  completely  lapped  over,  and  tie  in  2  or  3  places; 
then  take  sauce,  gravy  or  drippings  from  roast  meat  and  put 
it  into  a  sauce  pan  with  a  short  handle;  when  it  is  hot,  place 
the  liver  in  and  cover  tight,  and  let  it  stew  over  the  fire 
about  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  place  in  the  oven  for  half  an 
hour  and  when  it  is  browned  a  little  and  very  tender,  serve. 

To  use  up  Cold  Beef.  No.  i  : — Prepare  your  meat  as 
for  hash,  fill  a  deep  dish  with  boiled  macaroni;  on  top  of 
that  place  the  hash;  cover  it  with  tomatoes;  over  which 
sprinkle  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little  butter;  bake  until  nicely 
browned. 

To  use  up  Cold  Beef.  No.  2: — Prepare  meat  as  for 
hash,  make  it  in  rolls  (like  sausage)  by  binding  it  with  raw 
egg;  tie  each  roll  carefully  in  a  clean  cabbage  leaf,  and  boil 
24  of  an  hour  in  weak  stock.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Beef's  Kidney  Stewed: — In  preparing  this  dish  there 
will  be  required  1  ounce  of  flour;  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  1 
ounce  of  butter;  a  grain  of  cayenne  pepper;  a  tablespoon  of 
catsup;  and  }4  a  pint  of  cold  water.  After  washing  the  kid- 
ney cut  it  in  very  thin  slices  and  roll  each  in  flour;  make  the 
butter  very  hot  in  a  stew  pan;  and  in  it  brown  the  kidney 
slices;  add  the  }4  pint  of  cold  water  by  degrees,  and  stir  it 
all  together  when  the  water  boils.  It  must  be  skimmed 
very  carefully;  add  the  pepper  and  salt  and  catsup;  and 
allow  to  cook  very  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Turn  out 
'  on  a  dish  and  serve. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


33 


French  Beefsteak: — Cut  the  steaks  a  finger's  thick- 
ness from  a  fillet  of  beef;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
dip  them  into  melted  fresh  butter;  lay  them  on  a  buttered 
gridiron,  and  broil  them  over  hot  coals;  have  butter  and 
parsley  chopped  and  put  it  into  the  middle  of  the  dish; 
round  which  you  lay  the  steaks,  and  dip  them  in  it;  serve 
with  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon  overthem.    Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Veal  Loaf: — 3  pounds  of  veal;  1%  pounds  salt  pork 
ground  or  chopped  together;  1  teacup  cracker  crumbs;  1  tea- 
spoon allspice;  2  of  sage;  1  of  black  pepper;  3  eggs  and  % 
cup  of  cold  water.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  slowly  3 
hours.    Delicious.  Annie  E. 

Benson,  Minn. 

Uncle  Basett's  Recipe  for  Curing  Beef.  (Very 
Good): — 100  pounds  of  beef;  4 pounds  of  brown  sugar;  4 
ounces  of  saltpeter;  4  quarts  of  fine  salt.  Mix  all  together 
and  sprinkle  evenlv  over  the  meat.  Pack  the  beef  and  put 
a  heavy  weight  on  it;  pack  before  freezing. 

Uncle  Basett. 

Sausage: — 20  pounds  of  meat;  8  ounces  of  salt;  2  ounces 
of  pepper;  9  tablespoons  of  sage.  Mrs.  H.  C.  H. 

Northfield,  Minn. 

Pressed  Meat: — Procure  a  soup  bone,  which  may  be 
bought  for  10  or  15  cents;  wash,  put  to  boil  with  2  quarts  or 
more  of  water:  which  boil  until  there  is  a  little  more  than 
a  pint  of  broth  left  and  meat  falls  off  the  bone.  Strain  this 
liquid  and  when  cold  remove  what  grease  is  on  the  top. 
Now  pick  meat  over  removing  gristle  etc.,  put  in  a  chopping 
bowl,  chop  fine;  mix  the  liquid;  season  if  not  already  salty 
enough.  Put  in  a  dish  and  leave  it  to  get  cold.  Slice. 
Very  nice  for  Sunday  dinner  or  for  tea.  The  bones  and  ref- 
use may  be  boiled  and  made  into  soup.  After  it  is  strained 
put  in  a  couple  of  onions  cut  up  fine,  and  half  a  cup  of  rice. 

Northfield,  Minn.  Mrs.  W.  T.  S. 

Hash  Cakes: — yz  meat  to  2/z  potatoes  chopped  fine; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  large  piece  of  butter  and 
wated  enough  to  make  quite  moist;  set  it  on  the  stove  to 
heat,  then  have  ready  a  few  slices  of  crisp  buttered  toast; 
spread  the  hash  on  them  and  pile  up  like  a  jelly  cake;  cover 
lightly  and  let  it  steam  awhile  before  serving 


34 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie: — 2/z  of  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  y$  of  sour 
cream,  I  teaspoon  soda  and  a  little  salt;  mix  a  little  stiffer 
than  for  biscuit.  Roll  out  to  y2  inch,  spread  a  little  butter 
over  it  and  a  little  flour.  Roll  up  and  put  in  a  steamer  and 
steam  one  hour  over  the  chicken.  When  done  make  a  rich 
gravy  in  your  chicken.  Take  out  the  chicken  and  slice  the 
steamed  roll  and  lay  in  your  gravy  a  few  minutes,  then  it  is 
ready  for  the  table. 

Monango,  N.  D.  Mrs.  O.  J.  S. 

Prairie  Chicken  Stew: — Take  3  chickens,  dress  and 
separate  the  joints,  put  in  kettle  with  y2  cup  of  butter  1  ta- 
blespoon salt  and  1  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  slowly  till 
brown  nicely.  Add  2  cups  boiling  water  and  cook  till  ten- 
der. Takeout  chicken  and  thicken  gravy  with  ij^  table- 
spoons flour  made  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water. 

Benson,  Minn.  Annie  E. 

Stewed  Prairie  Chicken:— Prepare  the  chickens  the 
same  as  for  roasting.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  some 
stock  or  water,  and  a  cup  of  cold  gravy,  a  little  lemon,  a 
clove  or  two,  and  some  pepper  and  salt.  Add  after  awhile 
a  few  spoonsful  of  tomato  sauce.  Stew  slowly  for  a  couple 
of  hours,  serve  with  a  little  tomato  catsup  added  to  the  sauce, 
and  a  light  thickening  of  butter  and  flour. 

Prairie  Chickens: — Skin  the  chickens,  which  makes 
them  sweeter;  cut  them  open  on  the  back  and  through  the 
breast.  Fry  them  in  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the 
tasto.    Cook  them  to  a  nice  brown. 

To  Fricasee  Chicken: — Let  the  chicken  be  well  picked 
and  singed;  disjoint  and  wash  well,  then  place  in  kettle  with 
sufficient  water  to  boil;  then  cut  in  small  strips  y%  pound 
salt  pork  and  put  with  the  chicken;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  cook  tender,  but  so  as  the  fowl  will  not  fall  to  pieces, 
and  just  before  serving  make  a  rich  gravy  of  flour  with  but- 
ter well  rubbed  in  as  for  drawn  butter,  thin  with  milk,  if  you 
have  it,  if  not  water  will  do;  pour  over  chicken,  let  boil  up, 
and  remove  from  fire,  L.  E.  W. 

St.  Paul,  Minn. 

Potted  Pigeon: — Clean,  wash  and  truss;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  flour,  and  brown  in  salt  pork  fat.  Put  them  into 
a  stew  pan,  cover  with  hot  water,  add  1  onion  cut  fine,  1  bay 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


35 


leaf,  I  sprig  parsley  and  I  slice  carrot;  simmer  until  tender. 
Take  out  the  pigeons,  remove  the  strings  and  thicken  with 
flour  and  butter  cooked  together;  strain  over  the  pigeons 
and  serve.  About  an  hour  and  three-quarters  will  be  nec- 
essary to  cook  the  pigeons  usually,  though  it  depends  on 
the  quality  of  the  birds. 

Preessed  Chicken  no.  i  : — Cut  up  a  young  chick  and 
put  it  into  a  kettle,  with  I  coffee  cup  of  water;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  closely;  when  tender  pick 
the  meat  off  the  bones  and  chop  into  bits,  the  size  of  peas, 
and  pack  into  a  quart  bowl;  thicken  with  flour  the  little 
juice  that  remains  in  the  kettle  and  pour  over  the  chicken, 
Put  a  plate  on  it  while  hot,  and  a  heavy  weight  on  the  plate. 
It  is  necessary  to  cook  the  chicken  in  but  little  water,  oth- 
erwise it  will  not  jelly.  It  is  best  not  to  cut  pressed  chick- 
en until  the  day  after  it  is  made. 

Pressed  Chicken  no.  2: — Put  2  chickens  in  a  pot,  cov- 
er with  water,  stew  slowly  until  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bone,  then  take  out  and  chop  it.  Let  the  liquor  boil  down 
until  there  is  only  a  cupful,  put  in  a  small  cup  of  butter,  a 
tablespoon  each  of  salt  and  pepper;  a  little  allspice  and  a 
beaten  egg;  stir  this  through  the  meat;  slice  a  hard  boiled 
egg,  lay  in  your  mould,  and  press  in  the  meat.  When  ready 
to  put  on  the  table  garnish  with  celery  tops  or  parsley.  w,c.p. 

Pressed  Chicken: — Boil  2  chickens  until  the  meat 
leaves  the  bones  easily;  chop  the  meat  fine;  boil  the  liquor 
in  which  the  chickens  were  cooked  until  only  about  a  cup- 
ful remains;  add  about  y2  as  much  chopped  ham  as  chick- 
en; add  2  finely  rolled  soda  crackers.  Season  the  stock 
highly  and  pour  over  the  meat:  mix  all  well  together  and 
put  in  a  deep  pan  and  place  a  weight  on  it.  It  slices  better 
when  made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used. 

Fullerton,  N.  D.  M.  A.  O. 

Pressed  Chicken: — Stew  the  chicken  until  the  meat 
will  drop  from  the  bones.  After  taking  out  the  chicken  re- 
turn liquor  to  the  fire  and  boil  until  there  is  about  a  cupful 
left,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  scorch.  Remove  meat  from 
the  bones  and  mince  thoroughly  with  a  fork.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage  if  you  like  it,  and  press  into 
a  pan.  Pour  on  the  liquor  and  cover  with  a  plate  weighing 
it  down.    Let  stand  over  night  in  a  cool  place.    Try  this  for 


36 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


tea  or  picnic  or  traveling  lunch  and  I'm  sure  you  will  pro- 
nounce it  excellent  and  it  is  easy  to  prepare. 

Monticello,  Minn.  Mrs.  M. 

Sellied  Chicken: — Cut  up  2  chickens  and  boil  in  wa- 
ter, only  enough  to  cover,  until  tender;  then  remove  skin 
and  bones,  and  season  the  liquor,  of  which  there  should  be 
a  little  less  than  a  quart,  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  the 
juice  of  I  lemon.  Dissolve  %  box  of  gelatine  in  a  little 
warm  water,  and  add  with  the  chicken  to  the  liquor;  boil 
up  once  and  pour  into  a  mould.  This  is  very  nice  for  tea  or 
evening  party,  when  cut  into  thin  slices.  A  very  sharp 
knife,  however,  must  be  used,  or  the  slices  will  break  into 
separate  pieces. 

Fried  Chicken  with  Oysters: — Take  a  nice  tender 
chicken,  open  it  down  the  back  and  pound  all  the  bones  flat; 
wipe  dry  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  fry  slowly 
until  tender,  and  a  fine  brown  on  both  sides;  then  put  it  on 
a  dish  where  it  will  keep  warm.  Pour  off  the  lard  in  the  pan 
and  any  brown  particles  that  may  remain;  then  add  pint 
of  hot  water  and  flour  enough  to  make  the  gravy  of  the 
proper  consistency;  have  ready  about  25  large  oysters,  which 
remove  from  their  liquor  and  put  into  the  pan  with  the  gra- 
vy, let  them  simmer  until  their  gills  begin  to  shrivel,  ob- 
serving to  stir  them  all  the  time;  when  done  pour  them  over 
the  chicken  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled  Chicken: — Take  a  small  chicken  and  split  it 
down  the  back  and  fix  it  open  with  skewers;  lay  it  flat  in  a 
large  sauce  pan  and  put  in  enough  water  to  cover  it;  boil 
gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  rub  over  with  butter 
and  place  it  on  the  gridiron,  inside  downwards,  and  keep 
turning  it  until  done;  pepper  slightly  at  each  turn,  and  a 
little  salt  at  the  last.  Rub  over  with  butter,  and  serve  very 
hot  with  a  good  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

Broiled  Chicken  with  Oysters: — Dress  a  young  fowl 
as  for  baking;  fill  the  inside  with  oysters;  secure  the  ends 
of  the  fowl;  put  it  into  a  jar,  and  plunge  the  jar  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water.  Keep  it  boiling  2  hours;  then  take 
the  liquor  or  gravy  from  the  jar;  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs;  add  a  few  oysters  scald- 
ed in  their  own  liquor;  let  the  sauce  get  quite  hot  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  boil;  pour  over  the  fowl.    Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


37 


Chicken  Croquettes  no.  i: — Boil  I  chicken  and  4 
sweetbreads,  chop  both  very  fine;  when  cold  put  1  pint  of 
cream  and  5^  pound  of  butter  over  the  fire  and  let  them 
come  to  a  boil;  put  a  few  bread  crumbs  in  the  cream  while 
on  the  fire,  pour  over  the  chopped  meat  and  add  1  onion  and 
a  little  parsley  both  cut  up  very  fine.  Spread  on  a  dish  un- 
til cool,  mould  them  with  a  wine  glass;  dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  cracker  dust,  and  boil  like  doughnuts  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Very  Young  Fried  Chicken: — Take  chickens  the  size 
of  pigeons  and  simply  cut  them  into  halves;  rub  with  pep- 
per and  salt  while  wet;  fry  in  a  mixture  of  butter  and  lard, 
keeping  the  dish  covered;  mix  1  egg  with  a  spoonful  of  flour 
and  1  cup  of  milk  and  pour  over  the  chickens  when  done, 
setting  the  dish  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  cook  the  egg. 

Chicken  Pie  no.  2: — Take  2  full  grown  chickens,  dis- 
joint them  and  cut  the  back  bone  as  small  as  convenient; 
boil  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  let  them  boil  quite  tender,  then  take  out  the  breast 
bone.  After  they  first  boil  and  the  scum  is  taken  off,  put  in 
a  little  onion  cut  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a 
piece  of  butter;  when  done,  have  liquid  enough  to  cover 
them;  beat  up  2  eg^s  and  stir  in  a  little  sweet  cream;  line 
a  5  quart  pan  with  a  crust  made  like  soda  or  baking  powder 
biscuit,  only  using  more  shortening;  put  in  the  chickenand 
liquid,  cover  with  crust  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  done. 

Chicken  Pie  no.  3: — Cut  up  a  large  chicken,  if  it  is 
tough  parboil  it;  place  some  crust  in  a  deep  well  buttered 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  thin  salt  pork,  on  that  a  layer  of  chick- 
en; pepper  it;  chop  up  2  or  3  hard  boiled  eggs  and  sprinkle 
some  over  the  chicken;  then  more  pork,  chicken,  and  eggs, 
until  the  chicken  and  V2  pound  of  pork  are  used  up;  pour  in 
enough  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  parboiled  to  make  a 
gravy;  cover  with  crust,  ornament  it  a  little  and  bake  an 
hour  or  longer  according  to  the  size  of  the  pie. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie: — Joint  the  chicken  and  put  into  plen- 
ty of  water;  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  uutil  ten- 
der; make  a  batter  by  stirring  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder  through  2  cups  of  flour;  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  rich 
sweet  milk  to  form  a  stiff  batter;  spread  over  the  chicken 
and  boil  15  minutes  without  raising  the  cover;  dish  hastily 


38 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


by  tearing  open  the  batter  with  a  fork,  so  that  the  steam 
may  escape.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie; — 2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  j£  teaspoon  salt;  1  egg  and  just  enough  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  very  stiff  dough;  drop  from  spoon,  one  at  a  time, 
in  plenty  of  boiling  chicken  gravy;  cook  10  minutes;  keep 
the  pot  lid  off  after  they  begin  to  boil  well.    Nice  and  light. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  C. 

Fricassee  or  Brown  Chicken: — Boil  as  for  pot  pie, 
then  fry  slowly  in  butter  until  browned;  toast  bread  nicely 
and  lay  it  on  the  platter  under  the  chicken.  Pour  a  little  of 
the  broth  in  the  spider  with  the  browned  butter;  thicken 
with  flour;  season  to  suit  the  taste  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Chicken  with  Green  Corn: — Cook  the  chicken;  cut 
the  corn  from  the  cob  and  let  it  stew  with  the  chicken  for 
7  minutes;  put  in  a  little  pepper,  a  cup  of  cream  and  some 
butter;  thicken  with  flour;  put  in  some  salt  last. 

Chicken  Croquettes  no.  2: — Mince  very  fine  3  pounds 
of  cold  chicken;  %  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet;  y2  pound  boiled 
ham;  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and  a  little  onion;  add  y2  tea- 
spoon allspice;  1  grated  nutmeg;  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Moisten  the 
whole  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  the  chicken  was  boiled  in, 
or  a  little  milk,  and  form  them  into  cones  the  size  of  an  egg; 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  dust  and  cook  in  hot 
lard  the  same  as  doughnuts;  serve  hot,  garnished  with  sprigs 
of  parsley.    When  done  they  should  be  moist  inside. 

Chicken  Sandwiches: — (Very  nice.)  Take  cooked 
chicken  and  ham,  and  4  hard  boiled  eggs;  1  tablespoon  mus- 
tard and  the  same  of  vinegar;  chop  the  chicken  and  ham, 
but  not  too  fine;  then  braid  together  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs;  when  smooth  add  a  little  made  mustard  and  vinegar; 
if  it  should  not  be  salt  enough  from  the  boiled  ham,  add  a 
little  salt.  Have  ready  some  slices  of  buttered  bread  or 
rolls,  and  put  the  mixture  between  two  slices;  put  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  in  rings,  with  the  mixture  between  the  slices. 

Chicken  Fritters:— Cut  cold  chicken  in  small  pieces, 
put  in  a  dish  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  let  stand  1  hour;  then  make  a  batter  of  2  eggs  to  a 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


39 


pint  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter 
not  too  stiff,  put  the  chicken  in  this,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls 
in  boiling  fat;  fry  brown  and  serve. 

Chicken  Salad  Without  Oil: — Boil  a  chicken  till  very 
tender;  remove  the  bones  and  cut  in  smoll  strips;  take  7 
heads  of  celery  (white)  scrape  and  wash  well,  cut  in  pieces 
%  of  an  inch  long,  mix  it  with  the  chicken,  and  just  before 
the  salad  is  sent  to  the  table  pour  a  dressing  over  it  made  by 
rubbing  the  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  2  tablespoons  of  made  mustard;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tea- 
cup vinegar.  Place  the  delicate  leaves  of  the  celery  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  rings,  around  the  dish. 

Chicken  Celery: — (Delicious.)  Stew  chicken  tender 
and  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces;  to  every  pint  of  meat  add 
the  same  quantity  of  celery  cut  fine;  to  every  quart  of  these 
when  mixed  add  4  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine;  I  small 
cooked  potato  mashed  smooth;  a  piece  of  butter;  a  table- 
spoon each  of  ground  mustard,  pepper  and  salt  and  nearly  1 
cup  of  good  vinegar.  Put  the  butter  with  the  chicken  while 
hot. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Chicken  Salad:— Cook  1  chicken  very  tender;  chop 
or  pick  very  fine;  chop  also  1  small  head  of  cabbage  and 
5  hard  boiled  eggs;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  cel- 
ery if  you  have  it,  chopped.  Heat  y2  a  cup  of  butter  in 
a  pint  of  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  mixture.  It  is  better 
prepared  the  day  before  using. 

Oakes,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  F.  Dodge. 


40 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUP. 

Cucumbers: — Wash  carefully,  put  into  salt  and  water, 
one  cup  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water,  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours;  drain,  put  into  glass  jars  with  glass  tops.  Put  also 
with  each  jar  I  teaspoon  each  of  whole  cloves,  cassia  buds, 
black  and  white  mustard  seed,  and  allspice,  I  small  Cyenne 
pepper,  and  a  bit  of  horse  radish  root.  Fill  the  jars  with 
boiling  cider  vinegar  and  screw  up  immediately.  These  will 
be  ready  for  use  in  2  weeks  or  will  keep  for  2  or  3  years. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles: — Peel  large  ripe  cucumbers; 
cut  in  quarters  length-wise;  remove  the  seeds  and  jucy 
pulp;  let  them  stand  over  night  in  a  weak  brine;  in  the 
morning  drain,  (#nd  scald  slightly  in  clear  water,  then  cook 
until  clear  in  a  syrup  made  as  follows:  To  every  ten 
pounds  of  cucumbers  use  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  and  a  tablespoon  each  of  whole  cinnamon  mace  and 
cloves.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  a  teacup 
of  hot  water;  let  it  boil  up  and  skim,  then  add  the  vinegar 
and  the  spices,  tie  up  in  a  thin  cloth.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar. 
boil  the  syrup  down  quite  thick  and  pour  over  the  pickles. 

Plain  Cucumber- Pickle: — Put  the  cucumbers  in  a  pan,- 
sprinkle  a  handful  of  salt  over  them  and  cover  with  boiling 
water;  when  cool,  wipe  and  put  into  cold  vinegar.  These 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  three  or  four  days  but  will  not  keep 
a  great  while.  We  make  our  pickles  to  keep  all  winter  by 
packing  in  a  keg  a  layer  of  salt,  then  one  of  small  cucum- 
bers, then  another  of  salt,  and  so  on  until  the  keg  is  full. 
Put  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  and  skim  from  time  to 
time  as  necessary.  When  the  pickles  are  wanted,  they 
should  be  freshened  by  covering  with  boiling  water,  night 
and  morning  for  3  days,  then  put  them  in  good  cider  vine- 
gar. Gillette  Meredith  Kirke. 

Cucumbers: — Pare  them  lengthwise,  remove  all  the 
green;  cut  in  thin  slices  crosswise;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  from  15  to 
20  minutes;  drain  well  and  dress  with  vinegar  and  pepper, 
(vinegar  to  half  their  depth  in  the  dish).  Onions  sliced 
thin  and  mixed  with  the  cucumbers  are  an  improvement. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles: — Pare  and  scrape  out  the 
insides  of  ripe  cucumbers;  put  into  a  vessel  of  salty  water 
and  let  stand  a  day  or  two.    When  ready,  boil  in  vinegar  to 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


41 


which  has  been  added  about  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  2 
quarts  of  vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  of  cloves  and  cinnemon. 
If  the  spices  are  ground,  tie  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  cook  until 
tender  but  not  too  soft  as  they  soften  by  keeping. 

"Dakotan." 

Cucumber  Pickles  Without  Salt: — Pick  and  wash 
small  cucumbers;  put  into  glass  cans  with  2  small  pepper 
pods,  fill  the  cans  with  cold  cider  vinegar.  Seal  tight;  keep 
in  a  cool  place  and  they  are  always  ready  for  the  table. 

Pickled  Cucumbers: — Pick  and  wash  small  cucumbers 
and  put  them  into  brine  for  twenty-four  hours;  take  out 
and  wipe.  Scald  in  spiced  vinegar  and  put  away  in  earthen 
jars.  They  are  also  very  nice  put  in  mustard  and  vinegar. 
Enough  ground  mustard  should  be  put  into  the  vinegar  to 
make  it  of  the  consistency  of  thin  cream.    Mrs.  Polka. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles: — Take  large  ripe  cucumbers, 
before  they  get  soft,  divide  into  smaller  pieces  and  remove 
the  seeds.  Cook  the  pieces  very  slightly  in  water  just  salt 
enough  to  flavor  well.  Drain  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar. 
Prepare  vinegar  as  follows:  2  pounds  sugar  to  every  2  quarts 
of  vinegar;  several  onions  sliced,  some  cayenne  pepper; 
whole  cloves;  whole,  cinnamon;  whole  allspice.  Much 
cooking  injures  the  slices;  they  should  be  firm,  and  admit  a 
silver  fork  with  difficulty  when  taken  from  the  fire.  I  have 
found  it  best  to  put  the  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  cinna- 
mon in  a  little  bag,  and  let  it  boil  with  the  other  ingredients; 
after  boiling  remove  the  bag,  else  it  will  discolor  the  slices, 
if  left  in.  Then  pour  the  prepared  vinegar  over  the  slices  in 
the  jar  and  set  in  a  cool  place;  some  horseradish  pieces 
may  be  added  to  prevent  mold.  This  makes  a  very  good 
pickle  if  rightly  made.  M.  A.  O. 

Cucumber  Pickles: —  Wash  the  cucumbers,  put  in  a 
jar,  put  on  them  1  cup  of  salt  for  each  gallon  of  pickles, 
pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand  over  night.  For  3 
gallon  pickles  use  1  cup  salt,  1  gallon  vinegar  and  a  piece  of 
alum  size  of  nickle;  scald  in  this  vinegar,  drain,  pack  in  jar 
and  pour  on  clear  cold  vinegar,  I  pound  white  sugar  and  a 
little  horse  radish.  Drain  off  and  scald  each  day.  Add 
whole  spice  if  desired.   Cauliflower  is  nice  pickled  in  this  way. 

S.  E.  L. 

Ripe  Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles. — 6  pounds  of  cucum- 


42 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


bers:  3  pounds  of  sugar;  1  quart  of  cider  vinegar — if  vine- 
gar is  very  strong  add  a  little  water;  slice  the  cucumbers 
lengthwise;  take  off  rind  and  seeds;  cut  into  small  squares; 
watermelon,  citron  or  apples  can  be  used  instead. 

Bottled  Pickles: — Pour  boiling  water  over  the  cucum- 
bers and  let  stand  4  hours.  To  every  gallon  of  vinegar  take 
1  teacup  of  sugar;  1  teacup  salt;  1  teaspoon  pulverized 
alum;  1  ounce  cinnamon  bark;  }(  ounce  whole  cloves;  boil 
spice  and  vinegar  and  pour  over  pickles  and  seal  while  hot. 
If  the  pickles  are  placed  in  jar  closely  a  quart  of  vinegar  will 
I  think  be  nearly  enough  for  2  half  gallon  jars,  but  don't 
crowd  too  tightly. 

Stevensville,  Mont.  N.  E.  H. 

Picklette: — 4  medium  size  cabbage;  red  is  best;  2  on- 
ions all  chopped  fine;  2  quarts  vinegar;  2  tablespoons  mus- 
tard; 2  tablespoons  black  pepper;  2  tablespoons  cinnamon; 

1  tablespoon  of  allspice;  %  pound  sugar.  Mix  cabbage,  on- 
ions and  salt  to  taste;  let  stand  over  night.  Drain;  mix  vin- 
egar and  spices,  add  cabbage,  scald  until  onions  are  tender. 

Acton,  N.  D.  Lizzie  P. 

Indian  Pickle: — y2  gallon  strongest  vinegar;  2  ounces 
of  curry  powder;  2  ounces  of  turmeric;  2  ounces  of  mus- 
tard; 1  ounce  of  garlic;  2  ounces  of  salt;  1  dozen  small 
peppers.  Boil  the  ingredients  together;  when  cold  put  in 
small  cucumbers  and  onions — they  must  be  dry;  let  stand 
over  night,  then  lift  out  the  vegetables;  boil  the  mixture 
once  and  pour  over  the  pickle  hot;  bottle. 

Pickled  White  Cabbage: — Take  8  quarts  of  finely  cut 
cabbage;  2  quarts  of  vinegar;  2  cups  sugar;   1  cup  butter; 

2  tablespoons  mustard;  1  tablespoon  pepper  and  one  of  salt; 
scald  the  vinegar  and  other  things  together;  add  the  yolks 
of  A  eggs — put  the  eggs  in  vinegar  while  cold;  do  not  let  it 
boil. 

Green  Tomatoes: — 1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  a  dozen 
large  onions  and  six  large  green  peppers.  Clean,  slice, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Drain,  chop,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard 
seed,  1  tablespoon  each  of  ground  spices — allspice,  cloves, 
mustard  and  ginger;  2  tablespoons  black  pepper,  2  tea- 
spoons celery  seed  and  1  teacup  of  brown  sugar.  Put  all  in- 
to a  porcelain  kettle  with  vinegar  to  cover  and  boil  until 
tender. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


43 


Green  Tomato  Pickles; — Slice  7  pounds  of  green  to- 
matoes, 3  pounds  of  sugar,  a  layer  of  each.  Let  stand  over 
night.  Next  morning  drain.  Add  cloves,  stick  cinnamon 
and  one  quart  of  vinegar  to  the  juice  and  boil  1  hour,  then 
add  the  tomatoes.    Let  simmer  till  done. 

Round  Prairie,  Minn.  Mrs.  A.  J. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles: — 1  gallon  green  tomatoes 
sliced;  1  handful  ground  cloves;  1  handful  ground  allspice; 
a  little  cinnamon;  I  quart  brown  sugar.  Cut  the  tomatoes 
the  night  before  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Acton,  N.  D.  Lizzie  P. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles: — Cut  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes 
and  six  large  onions.  Let  them  remain  in  salt  and  wa'ter 
over  night,  then  pour  off  the  brine  and  put  into  a  preserving 
kettle  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  vinegar  to  cook  them  in, 
taking  I  pound  of  light  brown  sugar  to  every  pint  of  vine- 
gar; add  stick  cinnamon  and  cloves  for  spices. 

Wheatland,  N.  D.  Mrs.  R.  W.  H. 

French  Tomato  Pickle: — Slice  1  peck  of  green  toma- 
toes and  12  medium  sized  onions,  sprinkle  I  cup  of  salt  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  24  hours.  In  the  morning,  drain 
well  and  scald  in  weak  vinegar  for  15  minutes,  then  drain 
again  and  add  2  quarts  of  good  vinegar;  1  pound  of  sugar;  2 
tablespoons  of  turmeric  and  2  teapoons  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves,  allspice  and  black  pepper,  and  ^of  a  teaspoon  of  red 
pepper.  Cook  the  mixture  ^  hour  and  then  add  %  pound 
mustard,  that  has  been  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  vinegar; 
cook  it  five  minutes  longer.    Tried  and  true.  Matron. 

Carrot  Pickles: — Scrape  or  pare;  split  lengthwise  in 
quarters;  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water.  Make  a 
sweet  spiced  vinegar;  y2  vinegar;  3^  water.  Put  on  while 
hot.  Mrs.  G.  S.  J. 

Pickled  Beets: — Cut  either  crosswise  or  lengthwise  in 
quarters  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Keep  them  in  an 
earthen  jar  or  dish.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Crab  Apple  Pickles. — 1  pound  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  1 
ounce  each  cloves  and  allspice;  2  ounces  cinnamon.  Tie 
whole  spices  in  little  cheese  cloth  sacks.  Put  in  the  vinegar 
and  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  add  the  apples  (cored);  let  boil 
till  tender;  skim  out  in  a  jar  and  pour  the  vinegar  and  sugar 
over  them  while  hot  and  be  sure  of  plenty  to  cover  them 
well.  S.  E.  L. 


44 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Pickled  Seckels  Pears: — Choose  only  perfect  fruit;  wipe 
clean  and  cut  out  the  blossom  end.  To  12  pounds  of  fruit, 
use  6  pounds  of  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  vinegar.  Put  sugar  into 
a  preserving  kettle  with  a  teacup  of  hot  water;  boil  up  and 
skim;  then  put  in  2  tablespoons  of  whole  cloves,  mace,  all- 
spice and  stick  cinnamon.  Put  in  the  pears  and  boil  until 
tender.  Boil  the  syrup  down  quite  thick  and  pour  over 
them.  Gillette  Meredith  Kirke. 

Pickled  Peaches: — Pare,  steam  till  tender;  boil  2% 
cups  vinegar;  33^  pounds  sugar;  1  ounce  allspice;  1  ounce 
cloves;  2  ounces  cinnamon  (whole  spice).  1  hour,  and  pour 
hot  over  as  many  peaches  as  it  will  cover. 

Buffalo,  Minn.  S.  E.  L. 

Pickled  Peaches  or  Pears: — j£  cup  of  vinegar  and  j£ 
pound  sugar  to  a  little  over  a  pound  of  the  fruit;  place  all 
the  sugar  and  vinegar  over  the  fire  till  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Add  layer  of  fruit  and  cook  until  soft  enough  to  run  a  fork 
through.  Then  remove  the  fruit  and  fill  the  same  way  un- 
til all  are  done.  The  syrup  needs  no  more  cooking.  Stick 
cloves  in  fruit  before  cooking  and  cinnamon  to  syrup  if  de- 
sired. 

Pickled  Eggs: — Take  eggs,  put  them  in  boiling  water; 
after  they  are  boiled  hard,  put  them  in  cold  water  so  the 
shells  come  off  easily;  take  whole  cloves  and  stick  them  in 
the  eggs,  then  put  them  in  vinegar.    They  are  very  nice. 

Griswold,  N.  D.  Mrs.  C.  B. 

Pickled  Eggs: — Boil  1  dozen  eggs  10  minutes  then  re- 
move from  shells;  when  cool  put  in  jars;  pour  over  vinegar 
to  cover  in  which  has  been  boiled  the  usual  spices  for  pick- 
ling. Tie  down  the  jar,  keep  them  till  they  begin  to  change 
color. 

Moorhead,  Minn.  M.  V. 

Mustard  Onions: — Peel  and  soak  over  night  in  salt  and 
water.  In  the  morning  scald  in  weak  salt  and  water,  drain 
and  cover  with  the  following:  Dissolve  I  cup  of  brown  su- 
gar in  a  quart  of  vinegar,  heat  and  when  near  boiling,  stir 
in  4  tablespoons  of  mustard  and  2  of  flour,  wet  up  with  a  lit- 
tle cold  vinegar.  Boil  until  the  flour  is  thoroughly  cooked, 
and  turn  over  the  onions  while  hot.  They  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  2  or  3  days.  Gillette  Meredith  Kirke. 

Indian  Catsup; — 1  gallon  vinegar;  12  large  ripe  toma- 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


45 


toes;  12  large  cooking  apples;  2  pounds  brown  sugar;  I 
pound  raisins  cut  fine;  2  red  peppers;  ^  pound  mustard;  j£ 
pound  ground  ginger;  pound  salt;  boil  together  for  an 
hour  and  half,  then  strain  off,  press  as  much  as  you  can 
through  the  colander;  bottle;  will  keep  for  years. 

Ayr,  N.  D.  E.  E.  R. 

Cucumber  Catsup: — Grate  io  Aarge  cucumbers  and  12 
wh  te  onions;  put  3  handfuls  of  salt  over  them;  they  must 
be  prepared  the  day  before,  and  in  the  morning  lay  them  to 
drain;  soak  1%  cup  mustard  seed;  drain  it  and  add  to  the 
cucumbers,  with  2  teaspoons  of  whole  pepper;  put  them  in 
a  jar;  cover  with  vinegar;  cork  tight.  It  is  nice  without 
mustard  or  pepper. 

Ludden,  N.  D.  Mattie  Butler. 

Cucumber  Catsup: — Take  .arge  cucumbers  that  have 
oegun  to  turn  white  before  ripening.  Pare  and  split,  and  if 
seeds  are  hard,  scrape  them  out.  Grate  and  put  in  sieve  to 
drain.  Measure  the  juice  and  throw  it  out.  To  I  quart  of 
pulp  add  I  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  2  ta- 
blespoons grated  horse  radish,  1  tablespoon  grated  onion, 
and  as  much  good  vinegar  as  there  was  of  juice  drained  off. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  W. 

Tomato  Catsup: — 8  quarts  strained  tomatoes;  6  table- 
spoons of  black  pepper;  6  tablespoons  of  salt;  4  tablespoons 
of  mustard;  1  tablespoon  of  ground  cloves;  I  tablespoon  of 
yellow  ginger;  1  quart  of  vinegar;  y2  cup  brown  sugar; 
boil  very  slowly  until  the  quantity  is  reduced  nearly  one- 
half;  put  into  bottles, 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  A.  D.  K. 

Ripe  Tomato  Catsup: — 1  peck  tomatoes;  2  large  table- 
spoons mixed  spices,  (ground)  I  spoonful  of  mustard;  6 
spoonsful  of  salt;  gallon  of  vinegar.  Boil  slowly  6  hours* 
cool  and  then  bottle. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  J.  R.  A. 

Gooseberry  Catsup: — 8  pounds  of  ripe  or  partially  ripe 
fruit,  4  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  pint  of  good  vinegar,  2 
ounces  each  fine  cloves  and  cinnamon,  tied  in  a  bag;  boil  the 
berries  and  sugar  3  or  4  hours,  then  add  spice  and  boil  a  lit- 
tle more;  put  in  a  jar  and  coyer  well.  Will  keep  2  years  by 
Occasionally  scalding  and  adding  a  little  vinegar  and  spice. 

Chatfield,  Minn.  J.  E.  H. 


46 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Berry  Catsup; — Stew  to  a  pulp  any  kind  of  berries; 
press  through  a  colander;  add  to  each  quart  fruit  I  cupful 
sugar;  I  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mustard; 
teaspoon  pepper;  I  teaspoon  salt;  and       pint  vinegar  to 
each  quart  of  fruit;  stew*  20  minutes  and  seal. 

Bue,  N.  D.  Mrs.  A.  E.  D. 

Green  Pepper  Catsup: — Fill  a  porcelain  lined  kettle  of 
10  pounds  capacity  with  green  peppers,  the  hot  variety. 
Crush  a  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  mace  and 
stew  among  the  peppers,  adding  four  large  onions  cut  fine. 
Fill  the  kettle  with  vinegar  and  set  on  to  boil  until  the 
peppers  can  be  readily  mashed.  Set  aside  to  cool,  keeping 
the  kettle  carefully  covered,  and  when  cool  dip  up  the  con- 
tents into  a  sieve  and  rub  through  until  nothing  remains  in 
the  sieve  but  seeds  and  skins.    Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

Pickles — Chow  Chow: — I  quart  large  cucumbers;  I 
quart  small  cucumbers;  2  quarts  onions;  4  heads  cauliflow- 
er; 6  green  peppers;  1  quart  green  tomatoes;  I  gallon  vin- 
egar; 1  pound  mustard;  2  cups  brown  sugar;  2  cups  flour; 
}^  of  an  ounce  turmeric;  5^  an  ounce  curry  powder.  Put  all 
in  salt  and  water  one  night;  cook  all  the  vegetables  in  brine 
until  tender,  except  large  cucumbers.  Take  the  dry  ingre- 
dients and  make  a  sauce  with  the  vinegar;  then  pour  hot 
over  the  vegetables. 

Wheatland,  N.  D.  Mrs.  R.  W.  H. 

Tomato  Chow  Chow: — Slice  1  peck  green  tomatoes;  6 
green  peppers;  4  onions;  stir  in  a  cup  of  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night;  then  pour  off  the  water,  put  in  a  kettle  with  vin- 
egar enough  to  cover.  Add  I  cup  grated  horse  radish;  1 
tablespoon  cloves;  1  tablespoon  allspice;  1  tablespoon  cin- 
namon; 1  cup  sugar.    Cook  until  soft. 

Bue,  N.  D.  Mrs.  A.  E.  D. 

Chow  Chow: — 2  quarts  onions;  50  small  cucumbers;  25 
large  cucumbers  cut  into  inch  squares  and  soaked  in  salt 
water  over  night,  cauliflower  ditto;  2  large  cauliflowers  or 
cabbages;  2  quarts  green  tomatoes;  2  gallons  vinegar;  I 
pound  mustard;  1  pound  brown  sugar;  1  cup  flour;  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon;  1  tablespoon  cloves;  1  tablespoon  cay- 
enne pepper;  1  tablespoon  celery  seed.  Add  flour  and 
spices  just  before  removing  from  stove  and  celery  after  re- 
moving. 

Ramsey  Co.  Minn.  Mrs.  L.  E.  W. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


47 


Chow  Chow: — 2  quarts  cabbage  chopped  fine;  1  quart 
beets  chopped  fine;  place  I  quart  vinegar  over  the  stove  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  put  in  the  cabbage  and  beets,  then  half  tea- 
spoon red  pepper;  ^  ground  cloves;  I  tablespoon  celery 
seed;  I  tablespoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  cup  sugar; 
stir  all  together  and  let  boil  3  minutes;  remove  and  place  in 
earthen  jars:  wash  and  boil  beets  20  minutes  before  chop- 
ping fine. 

Ludden,  N.  D.  Mattie  Butler. 

Chilli  Sauce: — 20  ripe  tomatoes;  1  large  onion;  5 
green  peppers;  chop  all  fine  together;  add  2  teaspoons  salt; 
I  tablespoon  each  of  ginger,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves; 
I  cup  brown  sugar;   1  quart  of  vinegar.    Simmer  2  hours. 

Bue,  N.  D.  Mrs.  A.  E.  D. 

Chilli  Sauce: — Take  y2  bushel  tomatoes;  4  onions;  4 
red  apples  chopped  fine;  10  tablespoons  sugar;  5  table- 
spoons salt;  9  cups  vinegar;  boil  I  hour  when  it  is  ready 
for  canning. 

Hawley,  Minn.  Autumn. 

Chilli: — 1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  scalded  and  peeled;  6 
onions;  6  large  peppers;  I  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  salt;  3 
tablespoons  mustard;  3  tablespoons  cinnamon;  chop  toma- 
toes, peppers  and  onions  fine;  boil  4  hours,  adding  vinegar 
to  make  the  right  consistency,  or  about  %  of  a  gallon. 

24 ripe  tomatoes;  6  green  peppers;  8  onions;  8  table- 
spoons of  sugar;  6  small  tablespoons  of  salt;  1  small  table- 
spoon powdered  cinnamon;  1  small  tablespoon  of  cloves;  1 
small  tablespoon  of  ginger;  6  cups  of  vinegar;  peel  and 
chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers  fine;  boil  2  hours,  then 
add  sugar,  spices  and  vinegar;  boil  y2  an  hour  longer,  then 
bottle  and  seal ;  will  keep  for  a  year  or  more  if  tightly  sealed. 

1/2  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes  chopped;  4  large  onions 
chopped;  4  red  peppers  chopped;  10  tablespoons  sugar;  4 
tablespoons  salt;  9  cups  vinegar;  boil  1  hour. 

12  large  ripe  tomatoes;  4  ripe,  3  green  peppers;  2  on- 
ions; 2  tablespoons  salt;  2  of  sugar;  1  of  cinnamon;  2 
cups  vinegar;  peel  tomatoes  and  onions,  chop  fine,  boil  1 
hour  and  J^;  bottle.  I  quart  of  canned  tomatoes  can  be 
used  instead  of  ripe  ones. 

30  large  tomatoes;  10  small  onions;  20  tablespoons  of 


48 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


sugar;  10  small  red  or  green  peppers;  10  cups  of  vinegar; 
chop  all  together  and  boil  I  hour. 

Spiced  Green  Tomato  Pickle: — Slice  Specie  green  to- 
matoes; cover  with  I  quart  of  water  in  which  has  been  dis- 
solved I  cup  of  salt;  then  let  it  stand  2  hours.  Drain 
through  a  colander,  pressing  it  all  the  time.  Then  add  I 
quart  of  good  vinegar;  I  tablespoon  each  of  ground  cloves, 
pepper,  allspice,  mustard  and  cinnamon,  and  I  pound  brown 
sugar.  Boil  all  together  10  minutes,  then  simmer  about  an 
hour. 

Ellendale,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  D.  C. 

Chilli  Sauce: — Boil  together  2  dozen  ripe  tomatoes* 
3  green  peppers  or  y2  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper;  1  large 
onion;  cup  sugar.  Boil  until  thick,  then  add  2  cups  of 
vinegar;  strain  the  whole;  setback  on  the  fire  and  add  2 
tablespoons  of  salt,  and  3  teaspoons  ginger,  allspice,  cloves 
and  cinnamon;  boil  all  five  minutes;  remove  and  seal  in 
glass  bottles.  ■   Mrs.  Wm.  B. 

Piccalilli:— 1  peck  of  green  tomatoes;  1  large  head 
or  2  small  ones  of  cabbage;  3  green  peppers  and  2  red  ones; 
or  2/z  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper;  take  out  the  seed  from 
the  peppers  and  chop  with  the  tomatoes  and  cabbage  quite 
fine,  put  into  a  stone  jar  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain  in  a  colander;  take 
I  quart  of  strong  vinegar;  4  pounds  sugar;  T/2  each  of  ground 
cloves  and  allspice;  1  ounce  of  whole  white  mustard  seed; 
put  all  over  the  stove  and  boil  fifteen  minutes;  seal  in  glass 
cans. 

Lisbon.  Mrs.  A.  D.  K. 

Piccalilli: — To  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  add 
a  teacup  of  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  and  boil 
for  15  minutes  in  3  quarts  water  and  1  quart  of  vinegar. 
Drain  again  and  add  4  quarts  of  vinegar;  1  and  y2  ounces 
each  whole  cloves,  allspice,  ground  cinnamon,  and  3  pounds 
of  sugar.  Boil  15  minutes.    Gillette  Meredith  Kirke. 

Vinegar: — 1  pint  sorghum  or  1  pound  brown  sugar;  r 
gallon  fresh  rainwater. 

Northfield,  Minn.  Mrs.  J.  S.  W 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


49 


SALADS. 

Salad  Mayonnaise: — %  teaspoon  mustard  rubbed  with 
a  teaspoon  of  oil;  %  teaspoon  black  pepper;  i  teaspoon  salt; 
I  teaspoon  sugar;  I  cupful  vinegar;  I  egg;  beat  well  to- 
gether and  serve  with  any  salad,  lettuce,  cabbage,  potato, 
celery,  etc.  Cecile  I.  Broughton. 

Lettuce  Salad: — Carefully  wash,  and  crisp  lettuce  by 
letting  it  stand  in  cold  water  some  time  before  using — pre- 
pare dressing  as  follows:  Take  the  yolks  of  3  hard  boiled 
eggs;  add  salt  and  mustard  to  taste;  mash  fine;  add  a  ta- 
blespoon of  olive  oil  or  butter;  mix  thoroughly  and  add 
gradually  a  small  teacup  of  vinegar;  pour  over  the  lettuce 
and  garnish  with  another  egg  sliced. 

Salmon  Salad: — Wash  and  crisp  the  young  tender 
leaves  of  early  green  lettuce;  arrange  carefully  around  a 
platter;  turn  a  can  of  salmon  upon  the  leaves;  garnish  with 
sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  and  add  vinegar  and  pepper  to  taste; 
or  prepare  a  dressing  as  for  lettuce.  Very  convenient  be- 
cause quickly  prepared. 

Potato  Salad  no.  i: — Slice  boiled  pototoes  thin;  alter- 
nate with  layers  of  slices  of  onion;  add  salt,  pepper,  butter 
and  vinegar;  to  be  eaten  either  warm  or  cold. 

Potato  Salad  no.  2: — Prepare  potatoes  and  onions  as 
for  No.  1. 

Dressing: — Two  tablespoons  vinegar;  y2  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  I  cup  sweet  cream;  1  egg;  1  teaspoon  flour;  butter 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut;  1-10  of  a  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper. 
Beat  together  the  egg,  flour  and  sweet  milk;  boil  the  vine- 
gar; add  them,  boil,  then  add  some  salt,  the  cayenne  pep- 
per and  the  butter.  Let  this  cool  just  before  serving;  add 
a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  pour  over  the  potatoes;  to  be 
served  cold. 

Oakes,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  F.  Dodge. 

Plain  Cold  Slaw: — Chop  a  cabbage  very  fine;  add  salt; 
a  cup  of  sugar  and  good  cider  vinegar  and  water  in  equal 
parts,  to  cover. 

Salmon  Salad: — Put  in  a  bowl  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg;  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Rub  well  together.  Take  fresh  or  canned  salmon; 
if  the  latter,  pour  off  the  liquor  and  add  to  it  the  mixture  in 
the  bowl,  and  thicken  this  with  the  powdered  yolks  of  4 


50 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


hard  boiled  eggs  until  a  smooth  froth  is  formed,  which  you 
must  thin  with  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Pick  the  salmon  to 
pieces  and  lay  on  a  flat  dish.  Break  some  tender  lettuce 
leaves  and  mix  them  with  the  fish,  and  stir  half  the  dressing 
in.  Then  beat  the  white  of  an  egg;  add  it  to  the  remainder 
of  the  dressing,  which  pour  over  the  salad,  and  garnish  with 
nasturtions.  Housekeepers'  Weekly. 

Potato  Salad: — Chop  2  quarts  of  cold  boiled  potatoes; 
mix  1  teaspoon  salt;  %  teaspoon  of  pepper;  2  tablespoons 
parsley;  2  tablespoons  grated  onion;  1  gill  of  vinegar;  ^  gill 
melted  butter;  pour  over  the  potatoes;  let  stand  half  an  hour 
before  serving. 

Oakes,  N.  D  Mrs.  W.  F.  Dodge. 

Cream  Cabbage: — Shave  a  small  firm  head  of  cabbage; 
chop  fine,  with  a  very  small  pinch  of  salt;  stir  in  1  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  to  a  quart  of  chopped  cabbage  and  2  cups  of 
sour  cream.  Mrs.  G.  S.  J. 

Cabbage  Salad: — Boil  1  cup  vinegar;  mix  1  tablespoon 
butter;  \y2  tablespoons  sugar;  1  teaspoon  mustard,  and  2  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Pour  all  into  the  hot  vinegar,  but  do  not  boil. 
Chop  the  cabbage,  and  put  in  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then 
mix  with  the  dressing. 

Pembina  Co.,  N.  D.  Lillian  B. 

French  Cabbage  Salad: — 1  small  cabbage  choppedfine; 
stir  together  y  cup  of  vinegar;  3  tablespoons  of  melted  but- 
ter; 1  cup  of  sweet  cream;  2  well  beaten  eggs;  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  pour  in  saucepan  and  boil  till  it  thickens;  pour  this 
mixture  over  the  cabbage  while  hot  and  serve  when  cold;  use 
sugar  if  you  like  it  Mrs.  B.  F. 

Cabbage  Salad: — (Good.)  1  cup  sweet  cream;  1  egg 
well  beaten;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tablespoon  mustard;  boil  and 
add  y2  cup  vinegar  and  pour  hot  over  1  small  head  of  cab- 
bage chopped  fine. 

Cabbage  Salad: — 3^  cup  of  sweet  cream;  1  egg;  y  cup 
white  sugar;  ^  cup  of  good  vinegar;  a  pinch  of  mustard  and 
y2  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  all  together  and  boil  in  an  earthen 
dish.  While  hot  pour  over  y2  head  of  cabbage  chopped  fine. 
Serve  cold. 

Rochester,  Minn.  Margaret  Waldron. 

Cabbage  Salad: — 1  large  cabbage;  1  teacup1  vinegar;  I 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


51 


tablespoon  butter;  2  eggs;  i  teaspoon  mustard.  Chop  the 
cabbage  fine,  sweeten  and  salt  it;  then  heat  the  above  and 
pour  on. 

La  Moure  Co.  Hattie  Holcomb. 

Cabbage  Salad  Dressing: — Yolks  of  2  eggs;  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar;  2  small  teaspoons  of  salt;  2  teaspoons  made 
mustard;  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  1  desertspoon  of  corn- 
starch; mix  thoroughly  and  stir  rapidly  into  %  of  a  cup  of 
boiling  vinegar;  the  cabbage  used  with  this  dressing  should 
be  chopped  rather  fine;  and  after  the  dressing  has  been 
poured  over,  it  should  be  allowed  half  an  hour  before  serv- 
ing; it  may  be  garnished  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg  and 
sprigs  of  parsley. 

Mankato,  Minn.  Mrs.  T.  L.  D. 

Potato  Salad  Dressing: — Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten; 
1  teaspoon  of  salt;  2  teaspoons  of  sugar;  2  teaspoons  pre- 
pared mustard;  1  teaspoon  pepper;  2  tablespoons  butter;  stir 
in  slowly  y2  cup  of  good  vinegar.  Cut  up  the  amount  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes  required  for  a  meal  with  2  raw  onions 
cut  in  small  pieces;  prepare  half  an  hour  before  needed. 

Richland  Center,  Wis.  Mrs.  C.  M. 

EGGS,  CHEESE  AND  MACARONI. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese: — Take  about  3  ounces  of  maca- 
roni and  boil  till  tender  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  little  water; 
take  a  pudding  dish  or  pan,  warm  a  little  butter  in  it  and 
put  in  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese 
and  sprinkle  over  with  salt,  pepper  and  small  pieces  of  but- 
ter; then  add  another  layer  of  macaroni,  and  so  on,  finishing 
off  with  cheese;  pour  on  rich  milk  or  cream  enough  to  just 
come  to  the  top  of  the  ingredients,  and  bake  from  y2  to  %  of 
an  hour;  serve  while  hot. 

Omelet: — 6  eggs;  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately;  1 
tablespoon  flour  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  milk;  salt;  1  tea- 
cup sweet  milk.  Beat  well  together  adding  the  whites  the 
last  thing.  Pour  into  a  well  buttered  spider  and  when  done 
double  over  like  a  turnover.  Ella  R.  S.  V. 

Creamed  Eggs: — Boil  12  eggs  hard  and  slice  them  in 
thin  rings;  put  in  a  oaking  dish  first  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  egg,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs;  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  filled;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  then  a 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


cup  of  sweet  cream  over  all  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown  in  a 
moderately-heated  oven. 

Mock  Eggs: — Prepare  a  white  corn  starch  pudding, 
mold  in  egg-shells,  after  carefully  removing  all  of  the  egg. 
Serve  in  colored  ice  glasses  with  cream. 

Baked  Eggs: — Break  6  eggs  into  a  well-buttered  dish; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  small  bits  of  butter;  add 
I  tablespoon  of  milk  to  each  egg  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  10  minutes. 

Deviled  Eggs: — Boil  the  eggs  15  minutes;  when  cold 
cut  in  two;  take  out  the  yolks  and  pulverize;  add  salt,  pep- 
per, butter  and  mustard  to  taste;  then  add  enough  vinegar 
to  mix  moist  and  pack  back  in  the  whites. 

Potato  \Eggs: — Mash  5  or  6  well  boiled  potatoes;  add' 
salt;  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  I  cup  of  cream;  work 
well,  and  when  quite  free  from  lumps  add  2  well-beaten  eggs 
and  a  cup  of  finely  minced  ham;  make  the  mixture  into  egg- 
shaped  balls;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  good  dripping,  turning 
them  carefully  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  shape;  pour  a  parsley 
sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

Omelet: — 6  e^gs  beaten  separate;  1  cup  of  milk;  table- 
spoon of  flour  stirred  smooth;  salt;  stir  all  together;  bake  5 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Omelet: — Beat  5  eggs  very  light;  add  9  table- 
spoons of  sweet  milk;  spread  very  thinly  on  a  hot  griddle 
and  roll  up  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown;  be  very  careful  in 
cooking.  Edith  R. 

Merriam  Park,  Minn. 

How  to  Pack  Eggs  to  Keep  Two  Months: — Take  fresh, 
clean,  dry  eggs  and  put  them  into  a  box  in  a  dry  airy  place; 
not  down  cellar.  Stand  the  eggs  on  end  in  old,  dry  oats;  a 
layer  of  egg  and  a  layer  of  oats  until  the  box  is  full.  They 
may  be  sold  as  fresh  eggs  after  two  months  at  a  much  high- 
er price. 

Mazeppa,  Minn.  Ethel  Segar. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN 


53 


HASHES,  CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS. 

Hash: — Take  equal  parts  of  potatoes  and  ham  ;  onion; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  If  the  ham  is  not  fat 
enough  add  a  little  suet  or  fat;  grease  the  spider  so  as  not 
to  scorch;  cook  thoroughly  and  serve  hot. 

Ludden,  N.  D.  Mattie  Butler. 

Corn  Fritters: — Take  corn  a  little  too  old  for  boiling; 
split  the  grains  and  scrape  out  the  milk.  To  a  quart  of  this 
pulp  add  salt  to  taste;  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  beaten  yolks 
of  3  eggs;  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  lightly 
just  before  frying.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard.  If  you 
object  to  fat,  bake  on  griddle  in  cakes. 

Salsify  Fritters: — Boil  tender  and  mash  fine;  mix 
with  beaten  eggs  and  flour,  thin  enough  to  drop  from  a 
spoon  and  fry  as  other  fritters.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Potato  Fritters: — Boil  3  large  potatoes  and  mash 
them  smoothly;  then  add  4  well-beaten  eggs;  1  teaspoonful 
thick  cream;  a  little  lemon  juice;  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and 
some  salt;  beat  all  very  light;  then  drop  from  a  spoon  into 
hot  lard  and  fry  the  same  as  doughnuts;  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Polka, 

Fritters: — 1  cup  sour  cream;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  5  well- 
beaten  eggs;  scant  teaspoon  soda;  teaspoon  salt;  use  the 
best  of  flour,  enough  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  as  for  pan- 
cakes; dip  by  spoonfuls  into  sweet,  hot  lard  and  serve  at 
once  with  maple  sugar. 

VEGETABLES. 

Time  to  boil— about  thirty  minutes. 
Time  to  bake— thirty -five  minutes. 

Scrape  new  potatoes,  rinse  them  quickly  and  cook. 

Pare  old  potatoes  and  let  them  soak  awhile  in  cold  wa- 
ter before  cooking. 

To  Boil  Potatoes: — Select  the  potatoes  so  that  they 
will  be  nearly  of  a  size.  Put  new  potatoes  in  boiling  water 
to  cook,  while  old  potatoes  should  be  put  into  cold  water  to 
boil.  When  done,  pour  off  the  water  and  remove  the  cover 
until  the  steam  is  gone.  Then  scatter  some  salt  over  them 
and  cover  the  pot  with  a  towel  until  ready  to  serve.  Even 
watery  potatoes  will  thus  come  out  mealy, 

Saratoga  Potatoes: — Pare  and  slice  very  thin  and  dry 
them  and  throw  them  into  a  pan  containing  hot  lard  or  but- 


54 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


ter;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  take  out  when  both  sides 
are  a  delicate  brown. 

Mashed  Potatoes: — Boil  and  then  mash  thoroughly; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  in  some  new  milk  and  a 
piece  of  butter;  put  in  a  dish  and  place  them  in  the  oven  a 
few  minutes. 

Potato  Cakes: — Take  mashed  potatoes;  some  flour;  a 
little  salt  and  sugar;  mix  with  just  enough  milk  to  make  the 
paste  thick  enough  to  roll;  make  into  thin  cakes  and  bake 
quickly. 

Potato  Puffs: — Take  mashed  potatoes  and  make  them 
into  a  paste  with  I  or  2  eggs;  roll  out  with  a  dust  of  flour 
and  cut  round  with  a  saucer;  have  ready  some  cold  meat 
(any  kind),  free  from  gristle  and  chopped  fine;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  thyme;  place  on  the  potato  and  fold  it 
over  like  a  puff;  pinch  it  neatly  around  and  bake  a  few  min- 
utes. 

Potato  Biscuit: — Boil  2  pounds  of  potatoes;  mash 
them  well;  add  2  ounces  butter  and  1  pint  sweet  milk;  a  lit- 
tle salt  and  1  gill  of  yeast,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a 
soft  dough;  set  to  rise;  when  light  cut  in  cakes;  let  rise  half 
an  hour  and  bake. 

Potato  Croquettes: — Season  cold  mashed  potatoes  with 
pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg.  Beat  to  a  cream  with  a  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  to  every  cupful  of  potato;  add  2  or  3  beat- 
en eggs  and  some  minced  parsley.  Roll  into  small  balls; 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

German  Potatoes: — Mashed  potatoes  well  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  cream;  make  into  little  cakes 
an  inch  thick  (if  made  some  hours  beforehand  they  are  bet- 
ter); beat  an  egg  and  dip  them  in  it;  brown  nicely  on  both 
sides  in  hot  lard. 

Baked  Sliced  Potatoes: — Pare  and  slice  thin;  let  stand 
in  cold  water  half  an  hour;  then  drain  and  put  in  half  a  pint 
of  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt; 
bake  in  the  oven  1  hour. 

To  Bake  Potatoes: — To  bake  potatoes  quickly,  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  them  and  let  stand  a  minute  or  so  before  put- 
ting in  the  oven. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


55 


Stewed  Potatoes: — Boil  the  potatoes  till  tender;  cut 
them  in  thick  slices;  take  y2  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  a  little 
salt  and  butter  and  chopped  parsely  and  a  teacupful  of  milk; 
put  them  all  together  in  a  saucepan  and  let  them  stew  about 
20  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

A  Nice  Way  to  Serve  Potatoes: — Cut  cold  boiled  po- 
tatoes into  cubes;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  in  melted 
butter  and  lightly  in  flour;  arrange  on  a  baking  sheet,  bake 
15  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  very  hot. 

Bue,  N.  D.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Adrin. 

Potato  Balls: — Take  mashed  potato  according  to 
the  number  of  balls  wanted;  mix  with  raw  egg  and  make  out 
in  little  pats ;  have  ready  the  frying  pan.  Put  in  quite  a  lump 
of  butter  or  meat  fryings  or  lard;  either  would  do.  Get  quite 
hot  then  put  in  the  balls.  When  browned  nicely  turn  and 
brown  on  the  other  side.  Mrs.  C.  E.  F. 

Scalloped  Potatoes: — Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes;  let 
stand  in  cold  water  1  hour;  take  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  1  lay- 
er of  potatoes;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  some  small 
lumps  of  butter,  then  dredge  a  little  flour  over;  another  lay- 
er of  potatoes,  etc.,  until  dish  is  as  full  as  you  wish;  then 
pour  sweet  milk  over,  enough  to  cover  the  whole;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  potatoes  are  done. 

Scalloped  Potatoes:  Pare  and  slice  thin  enough  pota- 
toes to  nearly  fill  a  2  quart  basin.  Put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes 
and  sprinkle  over  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  bits  of  butter; 
then  another  layer  of  potatoes  seasoned  as  before  until  the 
basin  is  full.  Pour  over  sweet  milk  enough  to  barely  cover 
and  bake  1  hour. 

Benson,  Minn.  Annie  E. 

SWEET  POTATOES- 

Time  to  boil— about  forty-five  minutes. 
Time  to  bake— about  sixty  minutes. 

Choose  sweet  potatoes  by  their  appearance;  they  must 
be  smooth  and  fair  looking. 

Never  cut  them  to  boil,  and  they  should  not  be  cooked 
in  an  iron  pot  as  it  blackens  them.  A  tin  saucepan  is  nice 
for  sweet  potatoes. 

Peel  them  with  a  silver  knife  when  ready  to  bring  them 
on  the  table.    A  common  knife  will  discolor  them. 


56 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Care  should  be  taken  in  cooking  them,  not  to  over-do 
them,  for  then  they  will  be  watery.    Boil  in  hot  water. 

Try  them  as  little  as  possible  while  cooking,  wait  until 
they  have  cooked  the  proper  time  for  the  size  and  then  try 
them  with  a  silver  fork.  In  baking  it  is  only  needed  to  pinch 
them  with  the  thumb  and  finger  to  find  out  if  they  are  done. 

To  Steam  Sweet  Potatoes: — Select  those  that  are  of 
one  size,  as  nearly  as  possible,  wash  clean,  and  place  in  a 
steamer  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  cover  tightly,  and  let 
remain  until  a  silver  fork  will  penetrate  them  easily. 

To  Bake  Sweet  Potatoes: — Choose  those  of  a  size; 
wash  well,  place  in  a  baking  pan  in  the  oven.  Turn  them 
once. 

To  Bake  With  Meat: — Peel  the  potatoes,  and  if  very 
large  cut  in  2  or  4  pieces  and  place  them  around  the  meat  in 
the  pan. 

Fried  Cold  Potatoes: — Cut  in  slices  and  drop  in  hot 
lard  or  butter,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

Fried  Raw  Sweet  Potatoes  : — Pare  and  cut  in  thin  slices 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Too  much  cooking  will  make  them  hard. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuit: — Grate  boiled  potatoes  and 
mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  flour  and  4  ounces  of  butter 
and  a  little  salt.  Put  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  every 
pint  of  flour.  Wet  with  cold  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie: — To  1  pound  of  potatoes,  baked 
and  put  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  y2  pound  butter,  %  of  a 
pound  of  sugar;  1  pint  of  milk  and  6  eggs;  flavor  with  nut- 
meg, vanilla  or  lemon.    Bake  with  1  crust  and  it  is  delicious. 

Stewed  Sweet  Potatoes: — 1  pound  potatoes  and  1 
pint  of  milk;  cut  up  the  potatoes, after  they  have  been  boiled 
and  are  cold  put  them  into  the  milk;  add  a  little  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter.    Keep  covered  tight  and  stew  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Baked  Beans: — 1  pint  white  beans;  pick,  wash  and  put 
into  a  basin  or  earthen  bean  pot;  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar; 
a  generous  pinch  of  ginger  and  pepper,  and  slices  of  pork  to 
cover  the  beans;  coverall  with  water  and  bake  for  several 
hours,  adding  more  water  as  it  evaporates;  a  half  hour  be- 
fore serving  add  salt  to  taste.  Millie  Rees. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


57 


Stewed  Salsify: — Cut  the  root  into  convenient  pieces 
and  throw  them  at  once  into  water,  enough  to  cover  them. 
Add  salt  and  stew  gently  until  tender.  Then  pour  off  the 
water;  add  sufficient  milk  to  cover;  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
into  which  flour  enough  to  thicken  has  been  rubbed;  season 
with  pepper.  When  it  boils  and  is  sufficiently  thickened, 
serve. 

Salsify  Fried: — Cut  the  root  crosswise  in  halves  or 
shorter,  and  boil  until  quite  tender;  remove  from  the  water, 
and  drain.  Dip  each  piece  in  a  batter  made  of  eggs  and 
cracker  dust,  and  fry  quickly  in  plenty  of  hot  lard,  to  an 
even  light  brown.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Green  Corn  on  the  Ear: — Select  a  dozen  more  or  less, 
of  nice,  young  ears,  free  them  from  every  particle  of  silk, 
and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  wich  a  tablespoon  of  salt. 
If  very  young,  15  minutes  will  cook  them.  As  the  corn 
grows  older,  it  will  require  more  time.  Serve  hot,  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

Corn  Oysters: — Take  6  ears  of  boiled  corn;  3  eggs; 
\y2  tablespoons  ot  flour.  Beat  the  yolks  very  thick;  cut  the 
corn  off  the  cob,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt;  mix  it  with 
the  yolks,  and  add  the  flour.  Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  stir  them  in  with  the  corn  and  yolks;  put  a  desertspoon 
at  a  time  in  a  pan  of  hot  butter,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  on 
both  sides. 

Baked  Sweet  Corn: — Take  1  dozen  good  ears  of  corn; 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  smallest  possible  portion;  then 
take  the  back  of  the  knife  and  scrape  off  all  of  the  pulp. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  cream.  Also  put  in 
about  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  dish;  cover  closely 
and  put  in  the  oven  and  bake. 

To  Cook  Sweet  Corn: — Cut  corn  off  the  cob,  boil  in 
salt  and  water  until  well  done,  finish  up  with  cream,  pepper 
and  salt,  a  very  little  butter;  serve  hot. 

Fried  Corn: — To  1  can  of  corn  add  2  eggs,  salt,  pepper 
and  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  drop  in  the  spider  by  spoonsful 
and  fry  a  nice  brown,  turning  when  one  side  is  done. 

Corn  and  Tomatoes: — Take  equal  quantities  of  green 
corn  cut  from  the  cob  and  tomatoes  sliced  and  peeled;  stew 
together  half  an  hour ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  large 
lump  of  butter  stirred  in,  stew  15  minutes  longer  and  serve. 


58 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Succotash: — Strip  off  the  kernels  from  a  dozen  ears  of 
nice  sweet  corn,  very  close  to  the  ear,  with  a  sharp,  thin 
knife.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  Lima  beans, 
a  little  veal  stock  or  gravy  or  plain  water,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer steadily,  till  the  moisture  is  absorbed,  and  the  corn  and 
beans  tender.  Add  then,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  let  all  simmer  together  un- 
til thoroughly  amalgamated.  Serve  in  covered  dish.  Suc- 
cotash is  very  good  made  with  string  beans,  cut  small,  and 
boiled  with  a  slice  of  sweet  salt  pork;  it  then  neither  requires 
milk  or  butter. 

French  Beans  no.  i  : — Well  drain  the  beans;  after  scald- 
ing them,  coloi  some  butter  in  a  saucepan,  toss  up  the  beans 
in  it  over  the  fire ;  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when 
dishing  up  add  a  very  little  vinegar. 

French  Beans  no.  2: — String  the  beans,  cut  them  in  two, 
and  then  across,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  put  them  in  boiling 
water  and  boil  them  up  quickly. 

Dressed  Cabbage: — Chop  1  small  cabbage  fine,  and  for 
dressing;  1  cup  sweet  cream;  1  tablespoon  flour;  y2  cup  su- 
gar; y2  cup  vinegar;  boil  all  together  and  stir  until  smooth; 
then  pour  it  over  the  chopped  cabbage  (some  prefer  1  egg  to 
flour  for  thickening.) 

La  Moure,  N.  D.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Whitman. 

Cabbage  in  Half  an  Hour:— Have  plenty  of  salted  wa- 
ter boiling,  in  which  a  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Plunge  the  cabbage  in,  top  downward;  leave  it  uncovered  and 
let  it  boil  until  tender;  from  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour;  take 
it  out  into  a  colander,  drain  well;  put  into  a  hot  dish;  put  in 
bits  of  butter,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  at  once.  It 
will  be  as  delicate  as  cauliflower;  the  color  will  be  retained 
and  there  will  not  be  an  unpleasant  odor  over  the  house  such 
as  is  always  associated  with  boiling  cabbage. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  F.  C. 

Cauliflower: — Plunge  a  head  of  cauliflower  in  salt  sev- 
eral times  to  remove  any  insects;  boil  10  minutes  in  saltwater; 
drain  on  sieve;  put  cauliflower  in  buttered  dish;  melt  piece 
of  butter  size  of  an  egg;  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  flour;  stir  on 
the  fire  two  minutes;  add  1  gill  of  milk;  a  quantity  of  pep- 
per and  salt;  stir  this  sauce  till  it  boils;  pour  over  the  cauli- 
flower; sprinkle  over  it  a  few  bread  crumbs;  set  it  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  a  few  minutes  to  bake. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


59 


Spinach; — Take  I  peck  of  spinach,  wash  it,  and  drain  off 
the  water.  Put  into  boiling  salt  water,  and  boil  until  tender. 
When  done  pour  into  a  colander  and  press  the  water  out. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper,  (and  salt  if  there  is  not  enough.) 
Serve  hot  wTith  vinegar  and  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

A  Simple  Way  to  Prepare  Spinach: — Wash  and  pick 
y2  peck  young  spinach;  wilt  by  pouring  boiling  hot  water 
over  it;  drain  in  colander;  chop  fine  with  small  onion;  put  a 
lump  of  butter  size  of  hicory  nut  in  spider  and  tablespoonof 
flour;  when  brown  add  spinach  and  cup  of  water;  season  to 
taste;  cook  until  tender. 

Boil  in  salted  water;  drain  through  colander;  have  ready 
3  hard  boiled  eggs,  minced;  put  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter 
in  spider,  with  y2  cup  vinegar;  add  eggs;  serve  hot  at  once 

Scalloped  Tomatoes: — Skin  and  slice  thetomatoes  and 
arrange  in  pudding  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  grated 
crackers;  season  highly  and  dot  each  layer  with  bits  of  but- 
ter; pour  a  pint  of  sweet-cream  over  all  and  bake  for  an  hour. 
Shavings  of  dried  beef  may  be  used  between  each  layer. 
When  wanted  for  breakfast  it  may  be  made  the  day  before 
and  merely  heated  in  the  morning. 

Stewed  Tomatoes: — Pour  boiling  water  over  ripe  toma- 
toes to  crack  the  skin,  so  that  it  can  be  removed;  then  cut 
them  into  small  pieces;  squeeze  out  some  of  the  seeds  with- 
out losing  too  much  of  the  juice;  then  stew  them  without 
water,  seasoning  them  with  butter  and  salt.  An  onion 
chopped  fine  may  be  stewred  with  them.  Pepper  may  be 
added  while  stewing,  or  added  at  the  table  to  each  person's 
taste. 

Young  Beets  Boiled: — Beets  are  sweeter,  and  better 
when  young,  than  when  they  have  attained  full  size.  Wash, 
and  boil  them,  take  off  the  skins  after  they  are  boiled,  and 
put  over  them  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  butter.  When  they 
have  grown  older,  they  require  vinegar,  and  are  indeed  only 
fit  for  a  pickle.  Be  careful  never  to  prick  beets  in  putting 
them  in  the  pot,  or  while  they  are  cooking,  as  that  spoils  the 
color,  and  injures  the  flavor. 

Fried  Parsnips: — Scrape  or  peel;  cut  into  rather  small 
rings,  boil  until  tender;  then  place  in  a  spider  with  a  goodly 
supply  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  a  rich  brown. 


6o 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Fried  Beets: — Boil  them  until  well  done;  peel,  cut  in 
slices  about  %  an  inch  thick;  put  them  in  a  frying  pan  with 
a  little  butter,  and  fry  on  both  sides;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper;  serve  hot. 

Churches'  Ferry,  N.  D.  M.  I.  W. 

Egg  Plant: — This  is  a  delicious  vegetable.  Select  a 
medium  sized  one.  Peel,  and  cut  it  in  round,  thin  slices. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  between  each  slice,  and  then  cover  them 
down  with  a  bowl,  and  let  stand  for  an  hour.  Then  rinse  off 
the  salt  with  clear,  cold  water;  throw  away  the  liquid  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  which  will  be  dark  colored;  wipe  each 
slice  dry,  dip  it  in  egg,  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  it  in 
lard,  and  ]/2  butter,  a  fine  brown. 

Mustard  and  Beet  Leaves: — Take  j£  mustard  and  y2 
beet  leaves;  wash  and  drain  them;  then  drop  into  boiling 
salt  water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Press  out  the  water  and 
serve  with  butter,  vinegar  and  pepper.     Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Squash  Frittets: — I  pint  of  cooked  squash;  I  pint  of 
milk;  2  eggs,  and  a  little  salt,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make 
them  turn  easily  on  the  griddle. 

Asparagus: — Cut  off  the  white  ends,  removing  most  of 
that  which  is  hard;  scrape  the  hard  ends  a  little.  Put  them 
in  cold  water  for  a  short  time,  then  tie  them  up  in  small 
bundles.  When  the  water  boils,  put  them  in  with  a  little 
salt;  boil  until  tender,  about  15  or  20  minutes.  Toast  a  slice 
of  bread  brown  on  both  sides.  Take  them  np  carefully,  dip 
the  toast  in  the  asparagus  water,  and  lay  the  heads  on  it 
with  the  white  ends  outwards.  Pour  melted  butter  over 
them,  and  if  desired  garnish  with  quarters  of  an  orange. 

Boiled  Asparagus: — Wash  and  tie  evenly  in  small  bun- 
dles; drop  into  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  and  boil  20 
minutes;  take  up  with  a  skimmer,  and  place  on  buttered  toast 
which  has  first  been  dipped  quickly  in  the  hot  asparagus 
water. 

Boiled  asparagus  when  cold  makes  a  good  salad,  with  a 
plain  dressing. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN 


6l 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Taffy: — I  pound  of  brown  sugar;  2  ounces  of  unsalted 
butter;  y2  cup  of  boiling  water.  Boil  in  a  thick  sauce  pan 
until  slightly  brittle  when  dropped  in  ice  water.  Pour  in 
buttered  pans.    Pull  when  cool  and  flavor. 

Dickey,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Larson. 

Butter  Scotch: — 3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar;  y  of  a 
pound  of  butter;  y  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  8  drops  extract 
of  lemon;  add  as  much  cold  water  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar; 
boil  without  stirring  until  it  will  easily  break  when  dropped 
into  cold  water,  and  when  done;  add  the  lemon.  Have  a 
dripping-pan  well  buttered  and  pour  in  %  inch;  and  when 
partly  cold  mark  off  in  squares. 

Oatmeal  Crackers: — Mix  3  cups  of  the  finest  oatmeal; 
I  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a  little  salt,  with  enough 
sweet  cream  to  wet  it;  let  it  set  in  a  cool  place  an  hour  or 
two;  then  knead  in  enough  fine  flour  to  make  a  dough  that 
can  be  rolled  and  cut  in  shape;  roll  thin;  cut  out  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Lemon  Crackers: — 2%  cups  sugar;  1  cup  lard;  2  eggs; 
1  pint  sweet  milk;  y2  an  ounce  of  carbonate  of  ammonia;  5 
cents  worth  of  oil  of  lemon;  beat  the  sugar  and  lard  togeth- 
er; add  the  lemon;  add  the  eggs  well-beaten;  pulverize  the 
ammonia  and  dissolve  in  the  milk;  stir  in  flour  until  real 
stiff;  knead  well;  roll  thin  as  pie  crust;  cut  in  squares  and 
pick  with  a  fork;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.      Mrs.  V.  Zidek. 

Verona,  N.  D. 

Ambrosia: — Take  6  oranges;  peel  and  slice;  1  cocoanut 
grated,  then  put  in  a  dish;  1  layer  of  oranges,  then  a  layer 
of  cocoanut;  then  sugar  and  so  on  till  dish  is  full.  To  be 
made  3  hours  before  served. 

An  Excellent  Meringue: — 3  cups  of  milk;  2  eggs;  3 
tablespoons  sugar;  2  tablespoons  corn  starch  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  heat  the  milk  to  boiling;  stir  in  the  corn  starch  dissolv- 
ed in  3  tablespoons  of  water;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  sugar  and  salt;  cook  3  to  5  minutes;  pour  into  a  pud- 
ding dish.  Cover  with  a  frosting  made  of  the  beaten  whites 
and  y2  cup  of  sugar;  brown  in  the  oven;  dot  with  jelly  when 
serving. 

Chocolate  Caramels: — y  pound  grated  chocolate;  y 
teacup  butter;  1  teacup  of  sugar;  1  teacup  of  molasses;  1  tea- 


62 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


cup  sweet  milk;  boil  until  a  few  drops  will  crack  when  drop- 
ped in  cold  water;  pour  out  *4  inch  thick  in  well  buttered 
tins.  When  nearly  cold  mark  in  squares  with  a  buttered 
knife;  set  in  a  very  cool  place  to  harden. 

Orange  Sherbet: — i  tablespoon  Nelson's  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  6  tablespoons  cold  water;  add  I  pint  boiling  water; 
i  cup  sugar;  and  the  juice  of  3  large  oranges  and  2  lemons. 
Strain  and  put  in  freezer. 

Lemon  Ice: — 2  quarts  of  water;  2  pounds  of  sugar;  dis- 
solve the  sugar  in  the  water;  juice  of  4  lemons  and  4  oranges; 
well-beaten  whites  of  6  eggs;  add  a  little  lemon  rind  grated; 
strain  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Tarts: — Place  in  a  porcelain  kettle  *4  pound 
butter;  1  pound  rolled  sugar;  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons;  6  eggs  well-beaten;  stir  to  a  boiling  point;  bake  the 
shells  and  fill  when  cold. 

Cream  Fritters: — 1  y2  pints  of  flour;  1  pint  milk;  6  well- 
beaten  eggs;  y2  a  nutmeg;  2  teaspoons  salt;  I  pint  cream; 
stir  the  whole  enough  to  mix  the  cream;  fry  in  small  cakes. 

Apple  Fritters: — 3  eggs  beaten  light;  1  quart  of  milk; 
teaspoonful  salt;  grated  rind  of  1  lemon;  pare  even  and 
slice  thin  1  quart  of  apples;  add  to  the  batter  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard. 

Apple  Fritters: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  milk;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  4  eggs 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  cut  the  apple  in 
small  pieces,  dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  lard. 

Tripe  on  Toast: — Select  a  tender  piece  of  honeycomb, 
and  rub  a  bit  of  butter  over  the  heated  bars  of  the  gridiron; 
then  brown  the  tripe  on  both  sides,  dipping  it  into  a  little 
butter  and  water  to  baste  it  well  as  it  cooks;  have  a  hot  plate 
close  st  hand,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  cooked  well,  cut  it  up  into 
fine  strips  and  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Snow  Blanc  Mange: — Dissolve  y2  box  of  gelatine  in  1 
pint  of  boiling  water;  when  dissolved  add  1  pint  of  cold  wa- 
ter, juice  and  part  of  the  rind  of  2  lemons  and  2  cups  of 
sugar;  when  partly  hardened  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  5  eggs.  Serve  cold  with  a  custard  made  as  follows:  Place 
1  quart  of  milk  in  a  custard  kettle  or  pail  set  into  a  kettle  of 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


63 


boiling  water;  when  the  milk  reaches  the  boiling  point  add 
sugar  to  taste;  a  small  pinch  of  salt  and  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  5  eggs;  stir  quickly  and  remove  from  the  fire  and 
immediately  pour  into  a  cold  dish.  This  is  much  nicer  to 
be  made  the  day  before  using  and  kept  on  ice. 

Apple  Snow: — Whites  of  3  eggs;  4  large  spoons  of 
sugar,  beaten  stiff;  add  1  pint  of  stewed  and  sifted  apples, 
and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  stand  alone.    Mrs,  J.  S.  W. 

Northfield,  Minn. 

Tart  Shells: — 1  cup  lard;  white  of  1  egg;  1  large 
spoon  of  white  sugar;  3  large  spoons  of  water;  pinch  of  salt; 
flour  to  roll.  Mrs.  J.  S.  W. 

Northfield,  Minn. 

To  Serve  Coffee: — It  is  better  to  put  good  rich  cream 
and  white  sugar  in  the  cups  and  pour  coffee  on.  But  unless 
you  know  how  your  guest  likes  it  don't  do  it.  It  is  easy  to 
learn  how  the  members  of  your  family  like  it.  If  you  have 
no  cream  use  hot  milk. 

If  the  following  recipes  make  your  coffee  too  strong  the 
remedy  is  simple: 

Coffee  No.  1 : — Take  1  level  tablespoon  of  finely  ground 
coffee  for  each  cup  of  coffee  needed  and  1  "for  the  pot," 
pour  on  the  required  quantity  of  boiling  water;  let  boil  up 
once.  Setback  where  it  will  just  simmer  for  4  or  5  minutes; 
serve  immediately. 

Coffee  With  Cold  Water  No.  2: — Same  as  above 
only  use  cold  water  and  when  it  boils  up  once,  set  back  to 
settle. 

Coffee  With  Egg  No.  3: — Same  quantity  of  coffee 
stirred  or  wet  up  with  half  an  egg,  and  a  cup  of  cold  water; 
as  soon  as  it  boils  fill  up  with  boiling  water.    Serve  at  once. 

Coffee  No.  4: — Grind  coffee  coarse;  use  same  propor- 
tion of  coffee  and  water;  let  boil  10  to  15  minutes.  Set  back 
to  settle. 

Coffee  No.  5: — Pulverized  coffee;  1  tablespoon  for 
each  cup  and  2  for  pot.  Use  double  boiler  or  tie  coffee  in  a 
piece  of  cheese  cloth,  pour  on  boiling  water;  let  stand  a  few 
minutes;  serve.  .  Mrs.  Lizzie  Newell. 

La  Moure  Co.,  N.  D. 

Ink  stains  in  cotton  or  linen  can  often  be  removed  by 


64 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


washing  in  salt  and  water;  while  wet  they  can  be  taken  out 
with  vinegar  or  milk  without  injury  to  color  or  fabric,  but 
either  of  these  methods  must  be  employed  before  the  fabric 
is  washed  with  soap  or  even  wet  with  water. 

WASHING  DAY. 

Washing  Day: — This  is  the  dreaded  event  of  every 
household,  large,  and  small;  it  is  proverbially  associated 
with  wretchedness  and  discomfort,  and  many  have  been  the 
plans,  methods,  and  receipts,  which  have  been  imposed 
upon  housekeepers,  through  their  desire  to  relieve  them- 
selves of  this  constantly  recurring  source  of  trouble  and  an- 
noyance. 

Such  efforts,  are  mostly  vain,  and  useless  however,  some- 
times worse — positively  injurious.  Clean  clothes  are  a  luxu- 
ry, that  must  be  paid  for  in  some  shape  or  other — and  no 
substances  have  been  discovered,  and  few  machines  invented, 
to  rival  the  stout  arm,  and  strong  hand  of  the  professional 
wash-woman. 

Never  use  soda  to  soften  water,  it  rots  the  clothes  in 
proportion  to  its  strength;  buy  crude  borax  by  the  pound, 
and  put  in  half  an  ounce  for  an  ordinary  washing;  it  whitens, 
and  cleanses,  and  softens,  wonderfully,  and  injures  nothing. 
The  women  of  Holland,  whose  washing  is  proverbial,  use 
borax. 

Use  a  really  good  brand  of  soap  well  dried — not  the 
soft,  gelatinous,  yellow  bars,  which  melt  away  in  a  moment, 
and  really  stain  rather  than  cleanse  the  clothes,  and  always 
destroy  the  hands. 

Have  the  clothes  soaked  over  night  in  warm  water,  rub- 
bing all  creased  and  soiled  places  with  soap,  and  they  will 
require  only  one  washing,  and  that  not  a  laborious  one,  be- 
fore boiling.  Boil  quick,  rinse  thoroughly,  wring  through 
a  first-rate  clothes  wringer,  (the  barbarism  of  wringing  by 
hand,  is  now  happily  at  an  end)  and  bring  them  in,  and  fold 
them  as  soon  as  they  are  dry.  Fine  shirts,  ruffles,  and  linen, 
and  cambric  under  clothing,  are  much  injured  by  being  ex- 
posed an  unnecessary  length  of  time  to  frost,  wind,  or  dust. 

Table-Cloths,  Napkins,  etc: — These  articles,  and  any 
others  that  are  likely  to  be  disfigured  with  fruit;  or  coffee 
stains,  should  be  kept  back  from  the  general  soaking,  in  or- 
der to  undergo  special  treatment.  Put  these  in  a  small  tub 
by  themselves — and  pour  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  upon 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


65 


them — not  hot,  but  boiling,  hot  water  sets  stains,  boiling  wa- 
ter takes  them  out  clean.  When  the  water  has  cooled  a  lit- 
tle, wash  them  thoroughly,  and  boil  them,  the  stains  will 
have  probably  all  disappeared,  but  if  they  should  prove  very 
obstinate,  lay  them  on  the  grass  wet,  when  the  sun  is  hot, 
and  they  will  vanish. 

White  Flannels: — White  flannel  garments,  such  as 
petticoats,  underskirts  and  drawers,  baby  flannels  and  the 
like,  require  also  to  be  put  in  boiling  water.  The  very  best 
way  to  wash  white  flannels  is  by  machine.  Put  in  the  flan- 
nels, pour  in  boiling  suds,  mild,  let  them  stand  a  few  minu- 
tes, then  grind  them  out.  Pour  the  suds  away,  put  the  flan- 
nels in  again,  and  pour  over  them  a  kettle  of  clear  boiling 
water  with  a  pinch  of  crude  borax  in  it,  and  grind  them  out 
of  that.  This  finishes  the  process,  and  makes  them  beauti- 
fully soft  and  clean,  with  little  labor,  and  no  danger  of 
shrinkage. 

Zephyr  Goods  and  Colored  Flannels: — Colored  flan- 
nel  dresses,  sacks,  Garibaldis  and  other  articles  of  knitted 
wool,  such  as  baby  socks,  knitted  sacks  and  the  like,  should 
all  be  washed  in  cold  water,  in  which  a  little  crude  borax 
has  been  dissolved,  and  with  fine  white  soap,  white  Castile 
is  best,  but  don't  take  colored  Castile,  as  that  may  stain. 
The  process  will  be  found  very  easy,  and  perfectly  satisfac- 
tory; the  dirt  will  come  out  in  the  cold  water  without  any 
trouble;  there  will  be  no  shrinking,  and  the  color  will  remain 
bright  in  the  colored  woolens,  or  fancy  borderings. 

Blonde  Lace,  to  Wash: — Very  old  point,  or  blonde 
lace,  can  be  washed  successfully  in  the  following  way. 
Wind  the  lace  smoothly  round  a  bottle,  and  a  strip  of  old 
linen  outside  of  it,  so  as  to  cover  it.  Let  it  lia  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  wash  tub  while  the  first  and  best  clothes  are  being 
washed,  and  transfer  it  to  the  top  of  the  clothes  while  they 
are  boiling.  Thence  take  it  and  lay  it  in  boiling  water, 
which  has  been  slightly  colored  with  liquid  coffee,  and 
sweetened  with  loaf  sugar.  Press  out  the  moisture,  and  dry 
near  a  fire,  or  in  the  sun,  and  iron  carefully  while  still  damp. 

To  Wash  Laces  and  Needlework:—  Fine  handkerchiefs, 
collars,  undersleeves,  chemisettes  and  edgings  should  never 
be  put  into  the  large  "wash,"  they  should  be  kept  till  a  suffi- 
cient number  has  accumulated,  and  then  on  a  rainy  day, 
when  visitors  are  not  expected,  collect  them,  mend  carefully 


66 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


every  little  hole,  soap  them  and  put  them  in  a  clean,  bright 
tin  pail  that  will  cover  down  close,  and  fill  up  with  cold  wa- 
ter with  a  pinch  of  borax  in  it.  Let  them  come  to  a  slow 
boil,  then  squeeze  them  out;  if  they  are  very  yellow,  and 
very  dirty,  the  operation  may  have  to  be  repeated.  Rinse 
and  dry;  in  the  meantime  pour  a  little  boiling  water  over  a 
few  lumps  of  loaf  sugar,  and  if  you  wish  a  yellow  tinge  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  clear  liquid  coffee,  instead  of  starch;  lay 
the  articles  straight  out  in  clean,  dry  towels,  and  by  the 
time  the  last  one  is  folded  up,  the  first  will  be  ready  to  iron. 
Point  lace  can  be  washed  in  this  way  to  look  like  new. 

Muslin,  Lawn,  or  Print  Dresses: — An  excellent,  and 
sure  way  to  wash  lawn,  print,  or  muslin  dresses,  is  to  put 
one  or  two  quarts  of  bran  in  a  bag,  and  boil  it  in  two  or  four 
gallons  of  water.  When  the  strength  is  extracted,  take  out 
the  bag,  and  wash  the  dresses  in  the  bran  water.  It  will  act 
both  as  soap  and  starch,  cleansing  and  stiffening  them  per- 
fectly, without  any  danger  to  their  color.  Once  rinsing  is 
sufficient,  in  water  into  which  some  of  the  bran  water  has 
been  poured. 

Colored  Starch: — Colored  starch  is  the  latest  and 
greatest  novelty  in  the  laundry  line.  It  is  made  in  pink, 
buff,  the  new  mauve,  and  a  delicate  green,  and  blue  will 
soon  be  produced.  Any  article  starched  with  the  new  pre- 
paration is  completely  colored — dyed  we  should  have  said, 
but  as  it  washes  out,  and  the  garment  that  was  pink  to-day 
may  be  green  to-morrow,  and  buff  afterwards,  we  can  hardly 
say  "dye.d"  It  is  intended  especially  for  those  bright  but 
treacherously  colored  muslins,  that  are  costly,  wash  out,  and 
perplex  their  owners.  If  the  pattern  has  been  mauve,  they 
only  need  the  mauve  starch;  if  green,  green  starch;  and  they 
can  be  rendered  one  even  and  pretty  shade,  thus  becoming 
not  only  wearable  again,  but  stylish. 

How  to  Starch  Shirts,  and  Other  Things: — Put  into 
a  thin  muslin  bag,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  "best"  starch. 
Soak  it  for  10  or  15  minutes  in  three  pints  of  pure,  soft  wa- 
ter, into  which  drop  a  minute  quantity  of  fine  French  "blue." 
Squeeze  all  the  starch  out  of  the  bag,  and  dip  the  shirts,  and 
those  articles  that  require  to  be  very  stiff  first.  Afterwards 
it  can  be  thinned  for  children's  aprons,  and  such  things  as 
only  require  to  go  through  water  starch.  This  quantity  will 
stiffen  three  or  four  dozen  miscellaneous  articles,  which  will 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


67 


be  ready  for  ironing  immediately.  One  trial  will  convince 
the  most  skeptical  that  this  method  is  infinitely  better,  less 
laborious,  and  more  economical  than  boiled  starch. 

Saving  Soap: — Pour  on  half  a  pound  of  washing  soda, 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  take  half  a  pound  of  soap,  cut 
up  fine  in  a  saucepan,  and  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  cold 
water;  let  it  boil,  and  when  perfectly  dissolved,  add  it  to  the 
other.  Mix  it  well  upon  the  fire,  set  it  away  to  get  cold, 
and  it  will  look  like  jelly.  Soak  your  clothes  over  night, 
rub  them  out  of  the  water,  put  half  a  pint  of  your  saving 
soap  into  your  boiler,  writh  cold  water,  and  put  your  clothes 
into  the  cold  water,  let  all  come  to  a  boil  together,  then 
take  out  the  linen,  and  rinse  thoroughly.  This  will  keep 
clothes  a  splendid  color,  with  half  the  usual  labor, 

CAKES. 

Cake  Making: — 3  things  are  desirable  in  cake  no  matter 
what  the  recipe;  it  should  be  light,  sweet,  and  fine  grained. 

The  first  quality  is  obtained  by  the  use  of  eggs  in  cor- 
rect quantity,  powder,  (or  soda)  and  by  sufficient  beating 
especially  the  latter. 

Fresh  eggs  are  of  course  preferable,  but  if  not  strictly 
fresh  will  beat  up  much  lighter  if  they  are  very  cold. 

While  it  is  desirable  that  cake  should  be  sweet  enough, 
too  much  sugar  will  cause  a  cake  to  be  too  rich,  consequent- 
ly heavy;  about  the  proper  proportion,  to  be  varied  some- 
what, of  course,  according  to  the  size  of  the  eggs,  the  kind 
of  cake  desired,  etc.,  is  1  cup  sugar  to  3  eggs. 

A  thoroughly  beating  together  with  fine  sugar  will  in- 
sure a  fine  grain;  never  stir  or  mix  a  cake  but  beat  it  from 
first  to  last  and  as  rapidly  as  possible.  Coffee  "A"  sugar 
dissolves  more  rapidly  than  granulated,  therefore  is  more 
desirable  for  cake,  producing  a  finer  grain;  for  very  delicate 
cakes  use  pulverized  sugar. 

Experienced  cooks  differ  in  regard  to  the  order  of  com- 
bining the  ingredients;  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly  creamed 
first  will  produce  a  cake  more  delicate,  finer  grained  and 
richer  than  exactly  the  same  quantities  used  when  the  sugar 
and  eggs  are  beaten  together  before  the  addition  of  the  but- 
ter; this  is  because  the  eggs,  especially  the  whites,  when  the 
sugar  is  added  seem  to  toughen,  if  they  are  thoroughly  beat- 
en first  and  have  nothing  with  them,  this  will  produce  a 
lighter,  more  spongy  cake  than  the  former  process;  try  it 


68 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


and  see.  Second,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  if  used:  then  milk, 
then  flour  and  powder;  thoroughly  sifted  together,  then  the 
whites  and  lastly  the  flavoring,  beating  rapidly  and  putting 
into  a  hot  oven  immediately  to  prevent  the  evaporation  of 
the  flavoring  and  the  powder.  A  strictly  new  pan  is  not 
preferable  for  a  delicate  cake.  An  even  temperature  in  bak- 
ing will  prevent  a  cake  from  falling  even  if  it  is  pretty  rich. 

Contributed. 

Frosting  Without  Eggs: — i  cup  granulated  sugar;  % 
cup  sweet  milk.  Stir  the  sugar  into  the  milk  over  a  slow 
fire  until  it  boils;  boil  5  minutes  without  stirring;  remove 
from  the  fire.  Set  the  saucepan  or  bright  tin  you  boiled  it 
in,  in  cold  water  or  on  ice  while  you  stir  it  to  a  cream. 
Then  spread  quickly  on  the  cake  while  it  will  run.  This 
recipe  has  been  thoroughly  tested  and  given  good  satisfac- 
tion, for  it  will  not  get  dry  or  break  as  easily  as  frosting 
made  with  the  whites  of  eggs.  M.  A.  O. 

Dried  Apple  Cake: — Soak  3  cups  of  dried  apples  in 
warm  water  over  night;  drain  off  the  water  through  a  sieve; 
chop  the  apples  slightly,  then  simmer  them  for  2  hours  in  3 
cups  of  molasses;  then  add  2  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk  or  water;  %  cup  of  butter  or  lard;  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter  into  which  has  been  sifted  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder;  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  to  suit 
taste.  Mrs.  J.  F.  W. 

Inkster,  N.  D. 

Silver  Cake: — 2  cups  white  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  whites 
of  3  eggs;  %  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  of  flour;  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste;  beat  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream;  add  beaten  whites  last  of  all. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Adrain. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cake: — 1%  cups  granulated  sugar;  y2 
cup  butter;  %  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  whites  of  6  eggs;  2 
heaping  cups  of  flour;  3  small  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Filling: — Take  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar;  put  with 
it  ^  of  a  pound  of  butter;  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  with  the 
whites  of  4;  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  the  peel  of  2  grated.  Put 
this  into  a  pan,  let  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Continue  to  stir  it  gently  one  way  while  it  is  on 
the  fire,  or  it  will  curdle.  Let  it  simmer  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  or  looks  like  honey,  stirring  constantly.    Keep  in  a 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN 


69 


jar  or  glass  can;  it  will  keep  a  long  time  and  is  delicious  fill- 
ing for  cakes. 

White  Mountain  Cake: — 1  cup  butter;  2  cups  granulat- 
ed sugar;  I  cup  sweet  milk;  2  eggs;  2  teaspfcons  cream 
tartar;  1  teaspoon  soda;  3  heaping  cups  flour;  stir  all  togeth- 
er without  separating  eggs;  put  soda  in  milk;  cream  tartar 
in  flour;  bake  the  same  as  jelly  cake,  and  use  frosting  be- 
tween, made  of  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  fine  white  sugar. 

White  Mountain  Cake: — 1  cup  of  butter;  3  cupfuls  of 
sugar;  1  pint  of  flour;  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  whites 
of  6  eggs;  1  cupful  milk;  20  drops  royal  extract  bitter  al- 
monds. Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  light,  white  cream;  add 
the  6  whites  whipped  to  a  dry  froth;  the  flour  sifted  with 
the  powder;  the  milk  and  extract  mix  together,  but  care- 
fully, and  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins  in  a  quick  oven  15  minutes; 
then  arrange  in  layers  wTith  white  icing  and  grated  cocoa- 
nut  mixed,  in  the  proportion  of  2  cupfuls  of  the  former  to 
1  of  the  latter. 

Marble  Cake: — (White  Part.) — 1  cup  butter;  2  cups 
of  white  sugar;  y2  cup  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk;  31^  cups 
of  flour;  whites  of  7  eggs;  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  water. 

Dark  Part: — 2  cups  of  brown  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1 
cup  molasses;  ^  of  a  cup  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk;  yolks 
of  7  eggs;  5  cups  of  flour;  1  grated  nutmeg;  2  teaspoons  cin- 
namon; I  tablespoon  cloves;  1  tablespoon  allspice;  heaping 
teaspoon  soda. 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake: — Beat  3  eggs;  add  coffee  cup  su- 
gar; 3  tablespoons  cold  wrater;  2  tablespoons  new  milk; 
pinch  of  salt;  I  pint  cup  flour;  dissolve  %  teaspoon  soda  in- 
to milk;  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  mixed  with  the  flour; 
spread  jelly  on;  roll.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Molasses  Cake: — 4  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  with  1  cup 
of  sugar;  %  of  a  cup  of  black  molasses;  1  cup  thick  sour 
cream;  1  teaspoonful  ginger;  y2  teaspoonful  cloves.  Beat 
together  and  add  the  whites  well-beaten;  1  teaspoonful  soda 
sifted  with  2  cups  of  flour;  beat  well;  add  sifted  flour  until 
thick  enough.  It  depends  on  thickness  of  cream  and  mo- 
lasses how  much  flour  is  needed.  Bake  in  a  flat  tin.  I  have 
my  bread  tins  made  of  best  Russian  iron  18x9  inches,  they 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


just  fill  my  oven  nicely  with  room  to  bake.  I  bake  cake  in 
them. 

White  Cake: — 8  whites;  (take  the  yolks  for  the  mo- 
lasses cake  find  put  in  fruit,  and  it  makes  a  good  fruit  cake); 
\%  cups  of  granulated  sugar;  y^ofs.  cup  of  butter;  nearly  I 
cup  of  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted  in 
the  flour.  Vanilla  or  bitter  almond  flavor.  In  making  cake 
I  always  beat  well  just  before  I  add  the  last  y2  cup  of  flour. 

Cream  Layer  Cake: — 4  eggs  beaten  separate;  1  large 
cup  granulated  sugar;  }i  of  a  cup  of  butter  or  butter  and 
lard  mixed  and  creamed  with  the  sugar;  add  the  eggs;  %  of 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  2  small  spoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted 
in  about  2J^  cups  flour.    Bake  in  3  layers. 

Filling: — %  of  a  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream,  set  on  ice 
or  in  cold  water;  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  it  thickens; 
add  1  cup  granulated  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla;  spread  while 
cake  is  warm.  Mrs.  G.  S.  J. 

Coffee  Cake: — 1  cupful  very  strong  coffee;  1  cupful  of 
butter;  2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  3  eggs;  1%  pints  of  flour;  1%  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  1  cupful  stoned  raisins  cut  in  twTo; 
y2  cupful  chopped  citron;  extract  of  lemon,  and  allspice  and 
nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste;  cup  of  milk.  Rub  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  1  at  a  time,  beating  3  or 
4  minutes  between  each.  Sift  together  flour  and  powder, 
which  add  to  the  butter  and  other  ingredients;  mix  into  a 
smooth  batter  and  bake  in  a  paper  lined  cake  tin,  in  hot 
oven  50  minutes.  Mrs.  R.  W.  H. 

Wheatland,  N.  D. 

Angel  Food  Cake: — The  whites  of  11  eggs;  1  cup  flour 
after  sifting  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  \y2  cups  granulated 
sugar;  1  teaspoon  lemon,  (vanilla  if  preferred;)  sift  the  flour 
and  cream  tartar  4  times;  beat  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then 
beat  in  the  sugar  and  lemon;  add  flour  and  beat  lightly  but 
thoroughly;  bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  slowly,  40  minutes. 
The  pan  should  be  a  new  one;  an  ordinary  pan  will  do  if  it 
be  set  upon  the  edge  of  2  others  to  cool.  It  is  necessary 
the  oven  should  be  a  slow  one.  The  caKe  should  rise  grad- 
ually.   Turn  cake  top  down  to  cool.    Mrs.  C.  S.  Cooley. 

Cass  Co.,  N.  D. 

German  Coffee  Cake: — Yeast  cake;  pint  of  sweet  milk; 
set  as  for  bread  at  night.     In  the  morning  put  in  1^  cups 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


71 


sugar;  1  small  cup  butter;  2  eggs;  y2  cup  raisins.  Knead  as 
tor  bread  but  do  not  put  in  as  much  flour.  Let  it  rise  again, 
and  when  light  roll  out  about  an  inch  thick,  and  put  in  pans. 
Put  sugar,  butter  and  cinnamon  on  top  and  let  it  rise  again, 
then  bake.  Mrs.  H.  W.  George. 

Farmer's  Fruit  Cake: — Soak  3  cups  of  dried  apples 
over  night  in  warm  water.  In  the  morning  chop  slightly 
and  let  simmer  2  hours  in  2  cups  of  molasses;  add  2  well- 
beaten  eggs;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  dessert 
spoon  of  soda;  flour  to  make  rather  stiff  batter;  flavor  with 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon.    Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Polka. 

Marble  Cake: — (White  Part.)  y2  cup  of  white  sugar; 
y2  cup  of  butter;  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk;  iy  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  whites  of  4  eggs;  3  cups  flour. 

(Dark  Part.)  y2  cup  brown  sugar;  y2  cup  molasses;  y2 
cup  sour  milk;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  yolks  of  4  eggs;  put  some 
of  the  light  in  the  tin  and  then  the  dark  till  all  is  used. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  J.  R.  A. 

Marble  Cake: — (White  Part.)  Whites  of  4  eggs;  1  cup 
white  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  lemon;  and  2  and  y2 
cups  of  sifted  flour. 

(Dark  Part.)  Yolks  of  4  eggs;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  y2 
cup  molasses;  y  cup  butter;  y2  cup  sour  milk;  1  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  1  nutmeg;  1  teaspoon 
soda;  and  1  and  y2  cups  sifted  flour.  Put  it  in  the  cake  dish 
alternately;  first  one  part  and  then  the  other. 

Rolla,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  A.  W. 

Marble  Cake: — (Light  Part.)  2  cups  flour;  1  of  white 
sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  y2  cup  milk;  whites  of  3  eggs;  1  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar;  y2  teaspoon  soda-. 

(Dark  Part.)  2  cups  flour;  y2  cup  brown  sugar;  y2  cup 
molasses;  %  cup  of  butter;  y  cup  of  milk;  y2  nutmeg;  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  allspice;  y2  teaspoon  of  soda; 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Butter  your 
mould  and  put  the  batter  in  alternately. 

Marbled  Chocolate  Cake: — y2  cup  butter;  2  of  sugar; 
I  of  sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  whites  of  5  eggs;  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  take  out  I  teacup  of  the  batter,  add  to  it  5 
tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate  moistened  with  milk  and 


72 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


flavor  with  vanilla;  pour  a  layer  of  the  white  batter  into  the 
baking  pan.  Then  drop  the  chocolate  batter  with  a  spoon 
in  spots  and  spread  the  remainder  of  the  white  batter  over 
it. 

Morris,  Minn.  Mrs.  C.  G. 

Marble  Cake: — (White  Part.)  Whites  of  7  eggs;  1  cup 
butter;  3  cups  white  sugar;  4  cups  of  flour;  I  and  i  cup  sour 
cream;  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

(Dark  Part.)  Yolks  of  7  eggs;  2  cups  brown  sugar;  1 
cup  molasses;  1  cup  sour  cream;  5  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon  so- 
da; 1  tablespoon  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

Chocolate  Cake: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter; 1  cup  of  milk;  2  cups  of  flour;  2  eggs;  2  large  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Take  scantly  J  bar  chocolate  and  small  -J 
cup  of  milk;  scald  together  or  until  like  paste;  add  I  cup  of 
sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  I  egg;  flavor  with  vanilla;  let  it  cool 
and  stir  into  the  cake.  Bake  in  jelly-tins;  set  together  with 
boiled  frosting. 

Bethlehem.  Mrs.  M.  A.  F. 

Chocolate  Squares: — 1  cup  sugar;  y$  cup  butter;  y2  cup 
milk;  1  and  %  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Frosting: — \  cup  chocolate;  Yz  cup  powdered  sugar;  3 
tablespoons  milk;  boil  till  it  will  harden  on  cake.  Cut  cake 
in  2  inch  squares. 

Buffalo.  S.  E.  L. 

Favorite  Sponge  Cake: — 3  eggs  beaten  separately  and 
light;  1  cup  white  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  cup  flour  in  which 
is  sifted  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers.  Use 
any  filling.  Sponge  cake  should  never  be  only  just  done  or 
it  will  be  dry. 

Big  Rapids,  Mich.  Anon. 

Velvet  Sponge  Cake: — 2  cups  sugar;  6  eggs  leaving  out 
the  whites  of  three;  1  cup  boiling  hot  water;  2  and  \  cups 
flour;  beat  the  yolks  a  little;  add  the  sugar  and  beat  fifteen 
minutes;  add  the  3  beaten  whites  and  the  cup  of  boiling  wa- 
ter; just  before  the  flour,  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  ex- 
tract, and  bake  in  3  layers,  putting  between  them  icing. 

Corn  Starch  Cake: — Whites  of  7  eggs;  2  cups  flour;  2 
cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  I  cup  of  cream;  1  cup  of  corn 
starch;  2  teaspoons  yeast  powder.    Flavor  with  lemon. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


73 


Ribbon  Cake: — (White  Part.)  Two  layers;  i  and  \ 
teacups  fine  sugar;  %  cupof  butter;  I  cupsweet  milk;  2  cups 
flour;  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder;  whites  of  5  eggs. 

(Dark  Part.)  One  layer.  Take  of  the  above  mixture  4 
good  tablespoons  and  add  to  it  -J-  cup  of  New  Orleans  molas- 
ses; ^  cup  of  flour;  1  cup  chopped  raisins;  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
cinnamon,  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Pond  Lilly  Cake: — 1  cup  of  butter;  1%  cups  sugar; 
whites  of  5  eggs;  1%  pints  of  flour;  1%  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  I  cup  milk;  flavor  with  royal  extract  peach  and 
rose.  Bake  in  2  cakes,  if  very  deep  tins;  when  done  put  to- 
gether with  cocoanut  and  pulverized  sugar  and  on  top  of 
cakes,  and  ice  with  clear  icing.  Miss  A.  S.  H. 

Martha  Washington  Cake: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup 
sweet  milk;  2  cups  of  flour;  1  egg;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; 2  tablespoons  butter.  Bake  in  four  layers  and  spread 
jelly  between.  E.  Thomas. 

Chocolate  Cake: — 2  cups  sugar;  4  eggs;  1  cup  milk;  2 
of  flour;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  same  of  extract;  bake 
in  jelly  pans.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar; 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  grated,  and  1  teaspoonful  ex- 
tract; smooth  and  spread  between  the  layers  and  on  top. 

Mrs.  F.  P. 

Cream  Cake: — 2  eggs  well-beaten;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup 
cream;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  2j£  cups  flour;  season  with  nutmeg 
or  lemon;  beat  until  light.  Mattie  Butler. 

Ludden,  N.  D. 

Sponge  Cake: — 2  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  ^  cup  sweet 
milk;  1  tablespoon  butter;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flour 
enough  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter;  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling: — 1  cup  sugar;  3  tablespoons  sweet  milk;  boil 
until  it  threads  when  dropped  from  a  spoon;  stir  until  cool; 
flavor  with  lemon. 

White  Cake: — 3  eggs  (whites);  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  of 
sugar;  |4  cup  of  milk  or  water;  3  cups  flour;  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  lemon.  Mix  butter  and  sugar  to  cream; 
add  milk,  flour  and  powder;  beat  all  well  together;  lastly 
add  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mrs.  L.  A. 

Glyndon,  Minn. 

Layer  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  2  cups  flour;  %  cup  sweet 


74 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


milk  Yz  cup  butter;  whites  of  4  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  bake  in  three  layers.  When  eggs  are  scarce  use  2 
whole  eggs  instead  of  whites  of  4. 

Filling: — y^  pint  sweet  cream  beaten  thick  and  sweet- 
ened to  suit  taste. 

Chocolate  Filling: — y2  cup  grated  Baker's  chocolate; 
Y±  cup  granulated  sugar;  y2  cup  rich  milk;  cook  slow  until 
it  will  feather  when  dropped  from  spoon;  when  cake  is  cool 
spread.    Use  the  same  receipt  as  above  for  cake  part. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Cooley. 

Cass  Co.,  N.  D. 

Shrewsbury  Cakes: — Melt  1  pound  of  butter,  add  1 
pound  white  sugar;  4,eggs;  1  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon; 
a  tablespoon  carraway  seed;  beat  altogether  until  it  is  very 
light;  then  add  \y2  pounds  of  flour;  work  into  a  paste;  roll 
thin;  prick  it  and  cut  into  small  cakes.  Bake  in  a  rather 
slow  oven. 

Sponge  Jelly  Cake: — 3  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  large 
cup  flour:  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  mix  these  ingredients 
together  in  the  usual  way;  then  add  5  tablespoons  of  boiling 
water.  This  is  quickly  made  and  you  may  use  any  filling 
you  choose. 

Winter  Sponge  Cake: — Take  4  eggs;  2  cups  of  sugar; 
2  coffee  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  ^  of  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  and  lemon  to  flavor.  Add  the  water  last; 
pour  into  a  pan  and  place  in  a  well-heated  oven.  This, 
though  apparently  very  thin,  will  come  from  the  oven  a 
most  delightful  cake.  Mrs.  R.  W.  H. 

Wheatland,  N.  D. 

Coffee  Cake: — 1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  egg;  y2  cup  butter; 
1  cup  cold  coffee;  1  cup  molasses;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup 
currants;  1  cup  raisins;  spice  to  taste;  flour  to  make  stiff. 

Mrs.  C  S.  Cooley. 

Cass  Co.,  N.  D. 

Mrs.  Cooks  Seed  Cakes: — 2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  of  but- 
ter; i%  cups  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  saleratus;  1  teaspoon 
caraway  seeds;  mould  them  hard;  roll  them  rather  thin:  cut 
and  bake  on  tin  sheets. 

Chatfield,  Minn.  J.  F.  H. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


75 


Layer  Cake: — 3  eggs;  ii  cups  sugar;  y±  cup  milk;  2 
cups  flour;  a  little  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Lady  Cake: — 1  pound  of  sugar;  ^  of  a  pound  of  flour; 
\  ounce  of  butter;  the  whipped  whites  of  10  eggs;  flavor 
with  bitter  almond  and  bake  in  square  not  very  deep  tins; 
flavor  the  frosting  with  vanilla;  the  combination  is  very  nice. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Carter. 

Layer  Cake: — Beat  2  eggs  in  a  teacup;  fill  with  rich 
sour  cream;  1  teacup  of  white  sugar;  1  cup  of  flour;  a  little 
soda,  not  quite  J  teaspoon  unless  the  cream  is  very  sour; 
bake  in  4  round  tins;  put  together  with  jelly  or  boiled  frost- 
ing with  nutmeg  grated  on  it. 

Rapid  City,  S.  D.  A.  B. 

Layer  Cake: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  \  cup  of  butter;  \  cup  of 
milk;  whites  of  3  eggs;  1  and  \  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  For  filling,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon 
of  corn  starch  with  milk  and  lemon. 

Chatfield,  Minn.  J.  F.  H. 

Spice  Cake: — Light  dough  for  one  loaf.  y2  cup  lard;  1 
cup  sugar;  1  cup  of  raisins;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  all  kinds  of 
spices;  mix  stiff.    Raise  and  bake  1%  hours. 

Victor,  Mont.  Mrs.  R.  F. 

Spice  Cake: — 3^  cups  of  flour;  2  of  brown  sugar;  1  of 
butter;  1  of  cold  water;  1  large  cup  raisins  and  currants;  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon;  -| 
teaspoon  of  cloves;  the  same  of  nutmeg;  3  eggs. 

Mapleton,  N.  D.  Gertie  M. 

Mountain  Ash  Cake: — 2  cups  white  sugar;  cup  of 
butter;  1  cup  of  sweet  milk;  2%  cups  of  flour;  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste;  whites  of  4  eggs; 
put  in  the  last  thing. 

Dawson,  N.  D.  Mrs.  C.  S.  R. 

Surprise  Cake: — 1  egg;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter;  2 
cups  of  milk;  2  cups  of  flour;  2  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar;  1 
teaspoon  of  soda;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Dawson,  N.  D.  Mrs.  C.  S.  R. 

White  Cake: — 1  cup  butter;  2  of  sugar;  1  of  sweet 
milk;  3  of  flour;  whites  of  5  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; flavor  with  lemon.  E.  Thomas. 


76 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


White  Cake: — I  and  \  cups  sugar  mixed  with  4  table- 
spoons of  butter;  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  to  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  and  beat  them  together;  1  and  \  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  with  2  cups  of  flour;  1  cup  of  milk;  add  them 
to  the  sugar  and  eggs  alternately;  then  beat  as  long  as  pos- 
sible; add  flavoring  last. 

White  Fruit  Cake: — 2  eggs;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  su- 
gar; y2  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  flour;  1  cup  raisins  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder. 

Monan,  S.  D.  Mrs.  0-  J.  S. 

White  and  Gold  Cake: — Whites  of  4  eggs;  %  cup  but- 
ter; cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup  of  white  sugar;  1  teaspoonful 
soda;  1%  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar;  2  cups  flour;  flavor  to 
taste;  yolks  of  4  eggs;  cup  butter;  %  cup  sweet  milk;  1 
cup  brown  sugar;  1  teaspoonful  soda;  1%  teaspoonfuls  cream 
tartar;  2  cups  flour;  flavor  with  lemon;  M.  E. 

Walnut  Cake: — 3  eggs;  2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  sweet 
lk;  2  cups  flour;  %  cup  melted  butter;  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder;  1  pound  of  walnuts;  put  1  cup  of  the  meat 
in  the  cake  and  24  on  top.     To  be  baked  in  a  long  pan,  cut 
in  half  and  double  it, 

Gold  and  Silver  Layer  Cake:— (Silver  Part:) — 4 
eggs  (whites  only);  2  cups  of  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  1  cup  of 
water;  2  cups  of  flour.  Put  the  whites  of  the  4  eggs  on  a 
large  dinner  plate,  if  you  use  a  silver  fork;  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  beat  very  stiff;  put  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  \  cup  of 
warm  (not  melted)  butter  into  the  mixing  bowl,  and  beat  it 
to  a  cream;  add  1  cup  of  cold  water;  incorporate  it  well  be- 
fore sifting  in  1  large  cupful  of  flour,  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder;  then  another  cupful  of  flour  with  the  same 
amount  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon,  and  add 
the  whites  of  the  4  eggs.  Grease  well  two  straight  sided 
deep  cake  tins,  and  pour  the  cake  batter  into  them  and  bake. 

Gold  Part: — 6  eggs;  (yolks  only);  1  cup  of  sugar;  i 
cup  of  butter;  \  cup  of  water;  2  cups  of  flour.  The  yolks  of 
the  6  eggs,  and  the  butter  and  sugar,  should  be  beaten  sep- 
arately, then  put  together  and  creamed;  stir  in  the  \  cup  of 
water  thoroughly  before  putting  in  the  flour,  in  the  same 
manner  that  you  did  in  the  silver  cake.    Flavor  with  lemon. 

Filling: — Chop  fine  \  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins  with  a 
\  cupful  of  sugar;  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  very  stiff. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


77 


Flavor  with  I  teaspoonful  of  lemon.  This  filling  is  very- 
nice.  Another  way  to  prepare  it,  is  to  put  3  cups  of  seeded 
raisins;  1  cup  of  sugar;  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water  on  the 
stove,  and  cook  until  it  is  thick.  When  cool,  spread  be- 
tween the  layers,  beginning  with  a  gold  layer  first,  so  as  to 
bring  a  silver  layer  on  top,  as  it  is  the  nicest. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Greer. 

Molasses  Fruit  Cake: — 5  eggs;  2/z  cup  of  butter  and 
lard  mixed;  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1 
cup  sour  milk;  i1^  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup  raisins;  flour. 

Sherbrooke/N.  D.  M.  E.  Van  D. 

Whipped  Cream  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  soft 
butter  stirred  together;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten; 
4  tablespoons  of  milk;  the  whites  of  the  eggs;  1  teaspoon  of 
flavoring;  mix  1  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  and  %  teaspoon 
soda  in  1  cup  of  flour;  sift  into  the  cake  batter  and  stir  in 
lightly.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan.  When  the  cake  is  cool 
have  ready  pint  sweet  cream  sweetened  and  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  flavor;  spread  it  over  the  cake  while  fresh. 

Mrs.  Wm.  B. 

Cream  Cake: — The  whites  of  2  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  1 ; 

1  cup  of  sugar;  %  cup  of  sweet  milk;  butter  size  of  an  egg; 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  2  cups  of  flour;  flavor  with 
lemon  extract. 

Filling: — %  cup  thick  sweet  cream;  beat  till  it  adheres 
to  the  dish;  1  cup  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon  extract. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  M.  E.  Van  D. 

Cream  Cakes: — Boil  J  pint  of  water  and  a  %  of  a  pound 
of  butter  together;  stir  in  6  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  when 
cool,  mix  in  5  eggs,  1  at  a  time.  Be  careful  not  to  beat 
them.  Drop  the  mixture  into  buttered  pans  with  a  spoon, 
making  them  about  the  size  of  a  cream  cake,  but  not  too  flat. 
Varnish  them  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  dipping  a 
feather  in  the  egg  and  covering  each.  When  baked,  cut 
them  open,  at  the  side  and  put  in  the  following  mixture: 
Heat  a  pint  of  milk;  mix  i  cup  sifted  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
and  2  eggs  together;  stir  the  hot  milk  on,  and  replace  it  on 
the  fire  to  heat  and  thicken.  Flavor  to  taste.  The  crusts  will 
bake  in  about  15  minutes.  Have  a  hot  oven,  and  be  sure  it  is 
right  before  you  put  them  in,  because  openingthe  door  often 
hinders  their  rising  properly. 

Chatfield,  Minn.  J.  F.  H. 


78 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Harrison  Cake  No.  i: — 3  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  y2  cup 
butter;  y2  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  \y2  cups  flour.  In  all  cakes  it  will  be  found  neces- 
sary to  vary  the  flour  somewhat  according  to  the  size  of  the 
eggs. 

Delicate  Cake  No.  2: — 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  y2 
cup  milk  or  cold  water;  1  teaspoon  rose  water;  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  flour  to  make  batter  of  right  consistency; 
whites  of  4  eggs;  beat  all  thoroughly.  Cake  will  not  dry  as 
quickly  made  with  water  as  with  milk. 

Chocolate  Cake  No.  3:— 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  3 
eggs;  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  2  inches  square  melted  chocolate;  1%  cups  flour; 
chocolate  icing. 

Spice  Cake  No.  4: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  sour  cream;  ^ 
teaspoon  ground  cloves;  \y2  teaspoons  cinnamon;  3  eggs;  \ 
teaspoon  soda;  flour  to  the  right  consistency. 

Ribbon  Cake  No.  5: — Make  cake  No.  2;  divide  in  three 
parts  baking  either  one  or  two  as  it  is,  and  to  the  remainder 
add  cinnamon,  cloves  and  currants  on  chocolate.  For  fill- 
ing use  either  chocolate,  whipped  cream,  boiled  custard  or 
icing. 

Sponge  Cake  No.  6: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon 
butter;  3  tablespoons  sweet  milk  or  4  of  sweet  cream;  1  tea- 
spoon lemon;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  1  cup  of  flour; 
bake  in  a  sheet  tin  in  a  quick  oven.  Frost;  cut  crescent 
shaped  with  a  cake  cutter  or  baking  powder  can  after  first 
cutting  in  three  long  strips.  Mrs.  W.  F.  Dodge. 

Snow  Cake: — iy>  tumbler  of  fine  white  sugar  sifted;  r 
tumbler  of  fine  flour  sifted;  1  heaping  teaspoon  cream  tartar; 
a  little  salt;  put  these  ingredients  in  the  sifter  and  sift  four 
times;  10  eggs,  the  whites  only  beaten  stiff;  add  the  eggs 
with  flavoring,  stir  carefully;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use 
a  round  cake  tin  with  a  center  piece;  flavor.  (If  made  right 
is  white  and  light  as  snowflakes.) 

Snow  Balls: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  flour;  2  tablespoons 
sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  3  eggs;  flavor  with 
lemon;  put  a  tablespoon  in  greased  cups;  steam  20  minutes; 
roll  in  sugar  while  hot. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  W.  C. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


79 


Plain  Fruit  Cake: — 1%  cups  currants;  i%  cups  raisins; 
I  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream;  I  cup  brown  sugar;  %  cup 
milk;  4  eggs;  2^  cups  flour;  spice  and  lemon  peel  to  taste; 
3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  paper  a  dish  and  bake;  from 


Fruit  Cream  Cake: — 1  cup  of  brown  sugar;  1  egg;  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg;  1  cup  cream;  1  teaspoonful  soda;  1  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon;  1  small  nutmeg;  2  cups  flour;  ih  cups 
seeded  raisins;  this  will  make  one  good  sized  loaf. 

Nice  Fruit  Cake: — 3  cups  sugar;  1  cup  syrup;  4  eggs; 
2  cups  sour  cream;  butter  size  of  an  egg;  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
2  teaspoons  each  cloves  and  cinnamon;  2  cups  each  currants 
and  stoned  raisins;  flour  enough  to  mix  stiff;  this  makes  a 
large  cake. 

Waverly,  S.  D.  Mrs.  D.  J. 

Fruit  Cake: — 2  cups  of  white  sugar;  3  cups  of  flour;  1 
cup  sweet  milk;  %  cup  of  butter;  3  eggs;  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Take  i  of  the  above,  add  1  teaspoon  of  molasses;  1 
cup  of  raisins;  ^  cup  currants;  1  teaspoon  of  cloves;  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon;  ^  nutmeg.  Made  in  layers  and  put  to- 
gether with  frosting. 


Nice  Sponge  Cake: — 2  cups  sugar;  2  cups  flour;  6  eggs; 
\  cup  cold  water.  Beat  sugar  and  yolks  together  thorough- 
ly; then  add  the  water  and  flour  in  which  put  a  good  pinch 
of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  lightly  in  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  small  dripping  pan 
or  in  two  tins.  Ella  K.  S. 

Premium  Sponge  Cake: — 1  pound  sugar;  y2  pound  flour; 
10  eggs;  beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  together;  add  whites  beat- 
en stiff;  then  stir  the  flour  in  gently  and  add  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon  if  large. 

Morris,  Minn.  Mrs.  A.  B.  W. 

Sponge  Cake: — 3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar  beaten  together  un- 
til light;  add  3  tablespoons  water;  iy2  teaspoons  baking 
powder  mixed  with  iy  cups  flour;  bake  in  layers,  and  spread 
with  frosting.  L.  A.  W. 

Sponge  Cake: — 4  eggs;  i^cups  sugar;  y2  cup  of  butter; 
1  cup  sour  cream;  2  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Flavor  to 
taste. 


\\  to  2  hours. 


E.  E.  R. 


Tower  City,  N.  D. 


B.  E.  R. 


Seal,  N.  D, 


Mrs.  H.  W. 


8o 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Angel  Cake: — Whites  of  n  eggs;  i|  cups  pulverized 
sugar;  I  cup  sifted  flour;  I  small  teaspoon  vanilla;  I  teaspoon 
cream  tartar;  sift  4  times  after  measure. 

Sponge  Cake:— r  cup  sugar;  3  eggs;  3  large  spoonfuls 
of  melted^butter;  3  spoonfuls  of  sweet  milk;  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder;  1  large  cup  of  flour;  flavor  with 
lemon.    This  makes  1  large  loaf. 

Bethlehem.  Mrs.  M.  A.  H. 

Bridal  Cake: — Whites  of  10  eggs;  1  pound  of  pulver- 
ized sugar;  %  pound  of  butter;  1  pound  of  flour;  2  cups 
sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Raisin  Cake: — 1  pound  of  sugar;  y  pound  of  butter; 
\y2  flour;  4  eggs;  y2  pint  of  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2 
teaspoons  cream  tartar;  1  nutmeg;  y2  pound  raisins;  y2  pound 
currants. 

Light  Fruit  Cake: — 3  eggs;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  cur- 
rants; y2  cup  sweet  milk;  y,  cup  of  butter;  y2  teaspoon  soda; 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  y2  pound  citron. 

Wedding  Cake: — 1%  pounds  flour;  1  pound  brown  sug- 
ar; 1  pound  butter;  1  pound  raisins;  1  pound  currants;  y 
pound  citron;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar;  8  eggs;  all  kinds  of  spices. 

Fruit  Cake: — 1  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup 
molasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  4  eggs;  1  teaspoon 
soda;  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar;  1  nutmeg;  1  pound  currants; 

2  pounds  raisins.  Mrs.  A.  B.  W. 

Morris,  Minn. 

Custard  Cake: — 1  cup  of  white  sugar;  3  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter  rubbed  into  the  sugar;  add  2  well-beaten  eggs; 
\  cup  sweet  milk;  then  add  \\  cups  of  flour  in  which  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  have  been  well  mixed.  Bake  in  lay- 
ers in  a  quick  oven. 

Filling: — 1  pint  sweet  milk;  reserve  part  of  it;  1  cup 
sugar;  1  egg;  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle milk;  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut;  flavor  with  vanilla 
or  lemon. 

Monango,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  L.  P. 

Butter  Cakes  for  Tea: — To  \  a  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  2 
well-beaten  eggs;  a  teacup  of  cream;  -J  teaspoon  of  saleratus 
dissolved  in  the  cream;  a  little  salt;  1  tablespoon  of  melted 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


81 


butter;  and  sufficient  sifted  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 
Drop  it  in  thin  round  cakes  on  a  buttered  pan  or  griddle; 
turn  them  while  baking,  and  bake  until  browned.  Send  to 
table  piled  on  a  plate  with  a  little  butter  on  each. 

Ice  Cream  Cake: — Whites  of  5  eggs;  if  cups  of  sugar; 
•|  cup  butter;  1  cup  milk;  1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar;  \  tea- 
spoonful  soda;  3  cups  flour;  separate  this  mixture  and  color 
half  with  strawberry  coloring;  flavor  this  with  vanilla  and 
the  white  with  lemon;  put  in  the  white  and  then  the  pink; 
bake  slowly. 

Eggless  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  3  tablespoons  butter;  1 
cup  sweet  milk;  1  and  2/i  cups  of  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder. 

Cocoanut  Cake: — Take  2  cups  of  sugar;  4  eggs;  2  tea- 
spoons of  butter;  \  cup  of  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  2 
of  cream  tartar;  2  cups  of  flour.  Beat  yolks,  sugar  and  but- 
ter to  a  cream;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  add  the  last 
thing  before  baking.  Bake  in  5  layers.  Take  I  tablespoon 
of  corn  starch;  make  as  for  starch  by  pouring  on  boiling 
water  until  it  thickens;  sweeten,  flavor,  spread  between  the 
layers  when  cold,  and  sprinkle  on  cocoanut;  also  spread  over 
the  top  of  the  cake. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  M.  E.  Vand. 

Corn  Starch  Cake: — 1  cup  of  butter;  2  cups  of  sugar; 
I  cup  sweet  milk;  ^  of  a  cup  of  corn  starch  and  fill  it  up 
with  flour;  2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  7  e^gs, 
just  the  whites  well-beaten. 

Chocolate  Filling — (Fine):— 1  cup  grated  sweet 
chocolate;  1  cup  pulverized  sugar;  mixed  together;  3  table- 
spoons sweet  milk;  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  wralnut;  1  egg; 
steam  until  cooked;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Hickory  Nut  Filling: — 1  cup  of  cream;  3  tablespoons 
of  sugar  boiled  in  cream;  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn 
starch;  add  1  cup  of  nuts  after  they  are  well  rolled;  steam 
until  cooked. 

Hash  Filling: — \\  cups  prepared  frosting;  1  cup  chop- 
ped and  stoned  raisins;  1  cup  hickory  nut  meats  chopped 
fine.  A  Subscriber. 

Chocolate  Cake: — Whites  of  4  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  \  cup 
butter;  \\  cups  flour;  \  cup  sweet  milk;  \\  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  bake  in  layers  and  spread  with  the  following:  1 


82 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


cup  of  sugar;  %  cup  of  water;  4  tablespoons  grated  choco- 
late; boil  all  together  until  it  begins  to  harden  when  dropped 
in  water  then  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Waterbury,  S.  D.  L.  A.  W. 

Cottage  Cake: — %  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  white  sugar; 
I y  cups  flour;  4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  1 
tablespoon  sweet  milk;  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted 
with  the  flour;  pinch  of  salt;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Morris,  Minn.  Mks.  A.  B.  W. 

English  Fruit  Cake: — 1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  cup  sour 
milk;  1  cup  raisins;  y2  cup  currants;  4  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon  and  cloves; 

1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  may  be  added.  Margaret  B. 

Economical  Cake: — 1  cup  of  white  sugar;  y2  cup  butter; 
whites  of  3  eggs;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  flour  enough  to  make  batter;  bake  in  two  layers. 

Frosting: — Yolks  of  3  eggs;  1  cup  pulverized  sugar;  1 
teaspoon  vanilla;  beat  twenty  minutes  and  spread  between 
layers  and  on  top.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Adrian. 

Jelly  Roll: — 3  eggs;  1  cup  sugar  beaten  together  thor- 
oughly; 1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  y2  teaspoon  soda  mixed 
with  1  cup  of  flour;  bake  in  2  long  pie  tins;  spread  with  jelly 
and  roll  up. 

Waterbury,  S.  D.  L.  A.  W. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake: — 4  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  flour;  1 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Cinnamon  Drops:— i  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  of  butter;  y2  cup 
cream;  i*/2  teaspoons  cream  tartar;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2  eggs; 
flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  rather  thicker  than  for  jelly 
cake 

Inkster,  N.  D.  H.  S.  B. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake:— -3  eggs  beaten  well  with  1  cup  of 
sugar;  when  light  add  1  cup  of  flour;  1  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar; i  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  water.  Baking  powder 
can  be  used  instead  of  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda. 

Rapid  City,  N.  D.  A.  B. 

Loaf  Cake:— i  cup  of  sugar;  1  egg;  1  cup  of  milk;  8 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder; 

2  cups  flour.  It  is  excellent.  I  put  whipped  cream  over  the 
top  of  it.  ^  _ 

Tower  City,  N.  D.  B.  E.  R. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN, 


83 


Variety  Gake: — 3  eggs;  1%  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of 
milk;  2  cups  of  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  add  y2  tea- 
spoon of  cloves;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  y2  cup  chopped  rai- 
sins; to  be  baked  in  3  tins,  put  together  with  boiled  frosting. 

Tower  City,  N.  D.  B.  E.  R. 

One  Egg  Cake: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  egg;  y2  cup  sweet 
milk;  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  1%  cups  flour:  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  F. 

Cottage  Cake: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
2  eggs;  \  cup  of  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1^  cups 
of  flour;  nutmeg;  this  is  goodbaked  in  jelly  tins  with  whipped 
cream  between  the  layers. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  F. 

Marble  Cake: — (extra.)  (White  Part.)  1  cup  of  white 
sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  4  eggs;  (whites  on- 
ly); 1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  lemon;  2y2  cups  sifted  flour  with 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

(Dark  Part.)  Yolks  of  4  eggs;  1  cup  of  brown  sugar;  1 
cup  sOur  milk;  y2  cup  molasses;  y2  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  of 
chopped  raisins;  I  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
mace;  1  nutmeg;  2  cups  of  sifted  flour;  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Put  in  the  pan  alternately. 
This  cake  will  not  keep  unless  under  lock  and  key. 

Surprise  Cake: — (nice.)  1  cup  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of 
butter;  1  cup  of  swreet  milk;  1  egg;  \y2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  flavor  with  lem- 
on. Mrs.  Mary  Temple. 

Tea  Cakes  Easily  Made: — (Good.)  3  eggs;  1  cup  su- 
gar; 1  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup  butter.  Season  to  taste.  Mix 
middling  stiff  and  roll  not  too  thin.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Light  Cake: — 2  eggs;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sweet  milk;  3  cups  sifted  flour;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
flavor  to  taste. 

Plain  Fruit  Cake: — y2  cup  currants;  2  cups  raisins;  icup 
butter  beaten  to  a  cream;  1  cup  white  sugar;  1  cup  sweet 
milk;  4  cups  flour;  3  eggs;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  about  an  hour. 

Black  Fruit  Cake; — %  pound  butter;  1  pound  dark  su- 
gar; 2  pounds  currants;  3  pounds  raisins  seeded;  y2  pound 


84 


THF  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


citron;  %  of  a  pound  of  almonds;  8  eggs;  i  nutmeg;  cloves 
and  cinnamon;  i  pound  flour;  i  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

Fruit  Cake: — I  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  molas- 
ses; 1  cup  sour  cream;  3  eggs;  1  pound  raisins;  1  pound  cur- 
rants; 3  nutmegs;  %  pound  citron;  cloves  and  mace  1  table- 
spoon of  each;  1  teaspoon  soda;  6  cups  flour.  This  makes 
one  large  cake  or  two  small  ones. 

Spice  Cake: — 4  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  2  cups  molasses;  1 
cup  sweet  milk;  1  tablespoon  allspice;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  3  cups  flour. 

Oat  Cakes: — 2  cups  flour;  3  cups  oatmeal;  %  of  a  cup  of 
butter  or  lard;  1  teaspoon  soda;  as  much  warm  water  as  wilL 
wet  it.    Roll  thin;  cut  in  cakes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

French  Cream  Cake: — 3  eggs;  1  cup  white  sugar;  3  ta- 
blespoons cold  water;  \y2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins.  When  done  split  open  and 
fill  with  the  following  and  ice  over  the  top  and  you  have  a 
nice  cake. 

(The  Cream  for  the  Above  Cake): — 1  pint  sweet  milk; 
2  small  tablespoons  corn  starch;  1  tablespoon  sugar;  1  egg; 
butter  size  of  an  egg;  1  teaspoon  lemon.  Heat  the  milk  on 
the  stove;  keep  out  enough  cold  to  mix  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. When  it  is  hot  stir  the  rest  in,  keeping  it  stirred  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  remove  from  the  stove  and  fill  your 
cake. 

Icing  for  any  Kind  of  Cake: — 1  cup  pulverized  sugar; 
2  tablespoons  water;  boil  together;  take  it  off  the  stove;  stir 
in  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  it  well  to- 
gether; then  frost  your  cake. 

Teeswater,  Ont.  M.  E.  D. 

Fruit  Cake: — Use  a  large  cup  to  measure  with.  \\ 
cups  good  sour  cream;  butter  size  of  an  egg;  2  cups  dark 
brown  sugar;  4  eggs  well  beaten;  1%  cups  raisins,  stoned; 
1^  cups  currants;  1  cup  cut  citron;  2  teaspoons  each  of 
cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  lemon;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Do 
not  stir  too  stiff.  Bake  until  it  stops  singing.  Make  frost- 
ing, by  boiling  2  cups  white  sugar  in  a  little  water  until  it 
will  thread,  then  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Flavor,  and  beat  occasionally  until  it  begins  to  get  thick  then 
spread  on  your  fruit  cake.  M.  E.  N.  D. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN.  85 

Apple  Cake — iy  cups  sugar;  y  cup  butter;  i  cup  but- 
termilk; 1  cup  molasses;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda, 
salt,  cinnamon;  y  teaspoon  allspice;  %  teaspoon  cloves;  2 
cups  of  stewed  dried  apples;  cook  in  the  molasses;  when  cold 
add  to  the  cake;  add  flour  until  quite  stiff. 

Sandwich  Cake: — (Very  Nice.)  3  eggs;  iy  cups  su- 
gar; 1  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract;  y  cup  ot  butter; 
2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  take  y$  of  this 
and  add  y  cup  stoned  raisins;  little  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and 
allspice. 

Caramel  Frosting: — 2/z  cup  white  sugar;  3  tablespoons 
of  milk;  boil  in  a  small  basin  about  3  minutes;  remove  from 
the  stove  and  stir  until  cool;  stir  in  1  teaspoon  lemon  or 
vanilla. 

Merricourt,  N.  D.  Mrs.  R.  W. 

Fruit  Cake: — 2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup 
sour  milk;  2  cups  flour;  ^  cup  butter;  1  pound  raisins;  ^ 
pound  currants;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon 
and  cloves. 

Edgeley,  N.  D.  Mrs.  N.  B.  R. 

Fruit  Cake: — 1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  4  eggs;  i\ 
cups  molasses;  1  cup  sour  cream;  5  cups  flour;  2  pounds  rai- 
sins; 1  pound  currants;  1  teaspoon  soda;  spice  to  taste;  bake 
in  2  large  loaves. 

Des  Lacs,  N.  D.  M.  D.  G. 

Sponge  Cake: — 2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  y  cup  water;  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  1  cup  flour. 

Ellendale,  S.  D.  Mrs.  W.  D.  C. 

Sponge  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  3  eggs;  3  tablespoons  but- 
ter; 8  tablespoons  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar;  1 
teaspoon  soda;  flavor  to  taste;  a  little  flour  as  for  any  sponge 
cake. 

Victor,  Mont.  Mrs.  R.  F. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake: — Beat  1  egg  in  a  teacup  and  fill 
up  with  sweet  cream;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  flour;  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  F.  D. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake: — 4  eggs;i  cup  sugar;  1  cup  flour;  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder;  pinch  of  salt; 

Royalton,  Minn.  Miss  J.  P. 


86 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


California  Cake: — i|  cups  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  i  cup 
sweet  milk;  2  eggs;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  put  in  3  cups 
of  sifted' flour;  flavor  and  add  fruit.  This  recipe  makes  2 
cakes. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  F.  D. 

Caramel  Cake: — iy  cups  sugar;  %  cup  butter;  \  cup 
milk;  2%  cups  flour;  3  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Caramel  for  Filling: — ^  cup  granulated  sugar;  %  cup 
brown  sugar;  and  enough  thick  sweet  cream  to  wet  it;  boil 
till  it  strings;  flavor  with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Edgeley,  N.  D.  N.  B.  R. 

Orange  Cake: — iy  cups  sugar;  iy  cups  flour;  1  cup 
butter;  y  cup  sweet  milk;  4  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. 

Filling: — y  cup  sugar;  3  tablespoons  butter;  1  egg;  2 
tablespoons  cornstarch;  3  tablespoons  milk;  1  orange  grated 
rind  and  juice;  beat  all  together  and  boil. 

Edgeley,  N.  D.  Mrs.  N.  B.  R. 

Layer  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  2  eggs;  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter; 2/z  cup  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flavor 
with  lemon;  2  cups  flour. 

Victor,  Mont.  Mrs.  R.  F. 

Splendid  Layer  Cake: — 3  eggs;  1  even  cup  sugar;  3  ta- 
blespoons melted  butter;  3  tablespoons  sweet  milk;  1* heap- 
ing cup  of  flour;  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Ellendale,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  D.  C. 

Raspberry  Cake: — iy  cups  sugar;  3  eggs;  ^  cup  but- 
ter; y2  cup  sweet  milk;  iy  teaspoons  baking  powder;  2% 
cups  flour;  bake  in  jelly  pans;  spread  the  layers  plentifully 
with  ripe  raspberries  thoroughly  sweetened;  cover  the  top 
with  frosting.  Thfs  cake  should  be  used  the  day  it  is  baked; 
and  is  delicious  served  with  whipped  cream, 

Appleton,  Minn.  Mrs.  C.  E.  F. 

Cheap  Molasses  Cake: — 1  cup  molasses;  1  teaspoon 
ginger;  1  teaspoon  each  of  butter  and  lard;  stir  together; 
then  add  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred 
with  spoon;  dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  saleratus  in  a  cup  of  hot 
water  and  add  to  the  above;  stir  well  and  bake.    It  is  good. 

Dexter,  Minn.  Mrs.  John  Linnell. 

Layer  Cake: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  \  cup  butter;  y2  cup  sweet 
milk;  2  cups  flour;  whites  of  3  eggs;  bake  in  2  layers. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


8/ 


Filling:— Yolks  of  3  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoonful 
lemon  or  vanilla;  beat  about  ten  minutes  or  until  creamy; 
put  between  layers  and  on  top. 

Caramel  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  y$  cup  butter;  1  cup  milk; 
2  cups  flour;  2  eggs;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  and  beat  five  minutes;  add  milk, 
flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  three  times;  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff;  add  flour  and  whites  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing lightly  all  the  time. 

Caramel: — 2  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  of  milk;  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  boil  until  waxy;  beat  until  cool.  This 
cake  is  also  delicious  with  a  filling  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  H. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake: — Rub  together  2  teacupfuls  of 
sugar  and  1  teacupful  butter;  when  smooth  add  y2  teacupful 
milk;  1  teacupful  each  of  chopped  hickory  nut  meats  and 
seeded  raisins;  4  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon;  2y2 
teacupfuls  flour,  in  which  are  sifted  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

French  Tea  Cake: — 2  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1 
cup  milk;  3  cups  flour;  3  eggs;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der. Mrs.  Caroline  Weber. 

Dickey  N.  D. 

Fruit  Cake: — This  receipt  makes  perfectly  delicious 
cake,  and  it  will  keep  indefinitely:  1  pound  of  butter;  1  of 
brown  sugar;  citron,  and  browned  flour;  4  pounds  of  currants 
and  of  raisins;  2  pounds  of  figs;  2  of  blanched  almonds; 
12  eggs;  1  large  or  2  small  oranges;  1  tablespoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  lemon-peel  (chopped  fine),  and  allspice;  1  nut- 
meg; 1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  mace;  y2  a  teaspoon- 
ful soda;  1  gill  of  brandy.  The  Home-Maker. 

A  Mock  Fruit  Cake: — Cream  y2  cup  sugar  with  y2  cup 
butter;  add  to  it  y2  cup  of  molasses  and  the  same  of  sweet 
milk;  beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  this;  add  ^  ot  a  teaspoon 
soda,  dissolved,  and  a  goodly  quantity  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon, 
ground  cloves  and  allspice.  Either  add  the  teaspoonful  of 
essence  now  or  put  it  over  the  cake  after  baking  while  it  is 
steaming.  Salt  to  taste;  2  small  cups  of  flour;  1  cup  chop- 
ped raisins  improves  this  for  people  who  like  raisinss  or 
some  other  fruit  might  be  added.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 


88 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


and  frost  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  that  were  reserved.  {4 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  essence — or  make  boiled 
icing, 

Pound  Cake: — 1  pound  of  butter;  1  pound  sugar;  1 
pound  flour;  8  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cloves;  1  teaspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  1  glass  of  wine;  %  of  a  pound  carraway  seed.  Beat 
1  hour.  M.  V. 

Moorhead,  Minn. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake: — 2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  2/z  of  a 
cup  of  sweet  milk;  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour;  2  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

Frosting: — Whites  of  2  eggs;  V2  cup  sugar;  spread  cake 
with  frosting  and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut.    Mrs.  L,  H.  W. 
Cummings,  N.  D. 

German  Cake: — Take  bread  dough  for  a  loaf  of  bread; 
one  beaten  egg;  1  tablespoonful  sugar  creamed  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  butter  and  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  1  tablespoon 
milk;  mix  these  ingredients  well  and  work  them  into  the 
dough.  Let  it  rise  in  a  pan  where  it  can  be  spread  out  to 
only  an  inch  in  thickness,  then  when  light  put  into  the  oven. 
When  nearly  done  cover  with  butter;  y2  a  cup  sugar;  a  tea- 
spoonful  or  more  of  cinnamon,  and  finish  baking;  eat  with 
butter. 

Economical  Chocolate  Cake: — Cream  1  cup  of  sugar 
with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  1  cup  milk;  teaspoonful 
vanilla,  and  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg;  sift  2  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder  and  nearly  a  spoonful  of  salt  with  2  cups  flour; 
bake  in  layers. 

Filling: — 1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  square  of  chocolate, 
grated;  1  cup  milk;  butter;  boil  in  a  dish  set  in  a  kettle  of 
hot  water;  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  %  cup  flour  dissolved 
in  cold  milk;  when  quite  thick  spread  between  the  layers. 

Housewife's  Cake: — Bake  any  layer  cake  in  three  tins 
and  for  filling  use  the  following:  1  cup  chopped  dates;  1% 
cups  whipped  sweetened  cream;  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  For 
the  top  use  only  the  cream(sprinkled  with  cocoanut  if  you 
prefer  it).  Cicile  I.  Boughton. 

Cream  Jelly  Cake:— i  cup  white  sugar;  2  eggs;  well- 
beaten;  1  cup  sour  cream;  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle hot  water;  flour  to  make  a  batter;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


89 


For  the  jelly  take  1  scant  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  sweet 
cream  or  milk,  if  the  latter,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter;  let 
come  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in  yolk  of  1  egg;  scant  tablespoon 
of  cornstarch  and  a  little  milk,  just  enough  to  beat  the  egg 
and  starch;  let  boil  until  it  thickens;  them  flavor  to  suit  taste 
with  lemon  or  vanilla;  when  cool  put  between  layers. 

Mrs.  John  Linnell, 

Dexter,  Minn. 

Quick  Loaf  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  egg;  y2  cup  butter; 
I  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
a  little  nutmeg;  y2  a  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Chocolate  Cake; — iy  cups  sugar;  y2  a  cup  butter;  1 
cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups  sifted  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powTder;  5  eggs  leaving  out  the  whites  of  3;  1  teaspoon  lemon 
extract.  Bake  in  a  large  shallow  pan.  Use  the  whites  ot  3 
eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  y  of  a  pound  of 
Bakers'  chocolate.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  cake  while 
warm.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Larson. 

Dickey,  N.  D. 

Pinafore  Cake: — 1  cup  butter;  \y2  cups  sugar;  \y2  cups 
flour;  y  cup  cornstarch;  4  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar; 
y2  a  teaspoon  soda;  flavor  to  taste. 

Light  Cake: — Scant  tablespoonful  butter;  1  cup  sugar; 
%  of  a  cup  of  milk;  2  eggs;  2  scant  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.    This  recipe  can  be  used  as  a  jelly  cake. 

Mrs.  D.  T. 

Hensel,  N.  D. 

Chocolate  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  \\  cups 
flour;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  %  cup  milk  and  whites  of 
3  eggs.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  flour  and 
baking  powder;  thenmilk,  and  lastly  the  eggs;  beat  thorough- 

Filling: — 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  water;  boil  to  a  syrup, 
then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  and  white  of 
egg.  Miss  M.  S.  H. 

Caramel  Filling: — 2  cups  brown  sugar;  butter  size  of 
an  egg;  3  teaspoons  of  vanilla;  5  tablespoons  of  water;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  all  the  time  until  cold;  allow  the 
cake  to  cool  before  spreading. 

Hensel,  N.  D.  Mrs.  D.  T. 


9o 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Sponge  Drops — 3  eggs;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  yolks;  1  cup  sugar;  1  heaping  coffee  cup  of  flour;  1  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  flavor  with  lemon 
and  drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins,  3  inches  apart; 
bake  instantly. 

Northfield,  Minn.  Mrs.  J.  S.  W. 

Fruit  Cake: — 13^  pounds  raisins,  seeded;  1  pound  cur- 
rants; \  pound  citron;  \  pound  butter  (scant);  \  pound 
brown  sugar;  %  pound  flour;  ^  cup  molasses;  ^  teaspoon 
soda,  stirred  in  the  molasses  until  it  foams;  5  eggs;  cinna- 
mon and  cloves  to  taste;  sprinkle  the  fruit  with  flour  before 
putting  it  in  the  cake.  It  should  be  quite  stiff,  add  a  little 
more  flour  if  needed.    Bake  slowly  until  done.    Mrs.  B. 

Lemon  Cake: — 1  cup  white  sugar;  2  eggs;  \  cup  but- 
ter; ^  cup  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar;  1  teaspoon 
soda.    Add  lemon  extract  to  taste,  and  1^  cups  flour. 

Adelaide. 

Ice  Cream  Cake: — 1^  cups  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sweet  milk;  3  eggs;  3  cups  flour;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der. 

Filling: — 3  cups  sugar;  1  of  water;  boil  to  a  thick 
syrup;  pour  this  boiling  hot  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs;  stir  until  cold;  flavor  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  D. 

Victor,  Mont. 

Marble  Cake: — (White  Part): — %  of  a  cup  of  butter; 
^  of  a  cup  of  sugar;  %  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  1  cup  flour; 
whites  of  2  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

Dark  Part: — %  of  a  cup  of  butter;  y2  a  cup  of  sugar; 
y  of  a  cup  molasses;  y  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  i%  cups  of 
flour;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  ^  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  mace;  mix 
the  two  parts  separately;  beat  until  very  light,  then  put  in  a 
bake  pan  a  spoonful  at  a  time  to  have  the  light  and  dark  al- 
ternate.   This  cake  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Clove  Cake: — 2  eggs;  i}4  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1 
cup  chopped  raisins;  y  a  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  flour;  I 
tablespoon  cloves;  }4  a  teaspoon  soda.    Mrs.  W.  Ridley. 

Elkwood,  N.  D. 

Tea  Cakes: — 4  eggs;  2  cups  granulated  sugar;  1  cup  but- 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


91 


ter;  %  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  carbonate  of  am- 
monia; flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon.  Bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  until  very  slightly  brown. 

Sally  Luns: — Set  a  sponge  at  9  o'clock  at  night  with  a 
pint  of  new  milk;  warmed  and  ^  of  a  cup  of  yeast;  flour 
enough  to  stir  with  a  spoon;  beat  until  perfectly  smooth; 
when  the  sponge  is  very  light  next  morning,  add  1  cup  each 
of  sugar  and  butter;  4  eggs;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add 
y2  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  then  the 
eggs  beaten  thoroughly.  Mix  this  into  the  sponge  and 
beat  it  thoroughly;  sift  in  by  degrees  enough  flour  to  make 
it  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  wooden  spoon;  let  it  rise 
again  until  very  light,  flour  your  hands  and  pinch  off  enough 
to  make  a  cake  a  little  larger  than  an  egg;  shape  it  with  as 
little  handling  as  possible.  Bake  in  pans  on  buttered  paper, 
not  letting  them  touch  each  other.  Let  them  rise  very 
light  again  before  baking;  frost  with  white  of  egg  and  sugar. 

Adelaide. 

Caramel  Ribbon  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  egg;  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  butter;  a  pinch  of  salt;  sfir  altogether  and  add 
1  large  y>  cupful  of  water  and  2  scant  cups  of  flour  sifted 
with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  remove  }£  of  the  batter 
to  another  dish;  in  this  put  *4  cup  chopped  raisins;  y2  tea- 
spoonful  each  ground  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg;  bake 
this  in  one  layer.  Flavor  the  remainder  of  the  batter  with 
vanilla  and  bake  in  two  layers.  When  baked  place  the  dark 
layer  between  the  light  ones. 

Caramel: — 1  cup  brown  sugar  boiled  with  y2  cup  sweet 
milk  until  it  is  like  taffy;  remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  in 
^teaspoonful  vanilla;  when  nearly  cold  put  between  layers 
and  on  top  of  cake.  Mrs.  N.  D.  C. 

Ellendale,  N.  D. 

Coffee  Cake: — 1  cup  of  finely  chopped  raisins, 
sprinkled  with  ^  handful  of  flour;  1  cup  sugar;  1  of  molas- 
ses; %  cup  of  shortening  (lard  and  butter);  1  cup  of  strong 
eold  coffee;  4  cups  sifted  flour;  2  eggs;  pinch  of  salt;  2  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar;  1  teaspoon  soda,  and  1  each  of  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg.  M.  A.  H. 

Fullerton,  N.  D. 

Sponge  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar;  3  eggs;  1  cup  flour;  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  lemon;  -g-  teaspoon  salt; 


92 


THF   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Yz  cup  boiling  water.    Beat  sugar,  eggs  and  flour  together 
thoroughly;  lastly  add  boiling  water;  bake  in  a  loaf. 
Cass  Co.,  N.  D.  Mrs.  Cooley. 

Marble  Cake: — Whites  of  3  eggs;  Y>  cupbutter;  2  cups 
flour;  2  tablespoons  milk;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  or  Y2 
teaspoon  cream  tartar  and  j£  teaspoon  soda. 

For  the  dark  part,  yolks  of  3  eggs;  1  cup  molasses;  ^  cup 
butter;  2  cups  flour;  2  tablespoons  milk;  put  some  of  the 
light  in  the  pan  and  then  some  of  the  dark,  till  all  is  used. 

Lemon  Sauce: — J  cup  butter;  1  or  i|  cups  sugar;  1  egg; 
the  juice  of  1  lemon;  beat  well  and  just  before  serving  pour 
in  1  pint  of  boiling  water. 


Corn  Starch  Cake: — Beat  2  cups  of  sugar  and  i  cup 
butter  to  a  cream;  Y  CUP  milk;  lY  cups  flour  in  which  is 
well  mixed  Y  CUP  cornstarch  and  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; then  add  the  whites  of  6  eggs  well  beaten;  flavor  with 
lemon. 

Black  Cake: — 1  cup  butter;  1^  cups  brown  sugar;  Y 
cup  molasses;  1  cup  milk;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg;  cloves 
and  cinnamon;  4  cups  flour;  2  pounds  raisins;  1  pound  cur- 
rants; bake  immediately. 

York,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  Walker.  . 

Cream  Cake: — 1  cup  granulated  sugar;  break  2  eggs  in 
a  cup  and  fill  up  with  sour  cream;  lY  cups  flour;  Y  tea~ 
spoon  soda;  nutmeg.  Beat  all  togetherthoroughly  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  in  a  shallow  dish. 

Dickey,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Larson. 

Nut  Cake: — Mix  2  cups  sugar  and  Y  CUP  °^  butter  to- 
gether; add  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in  3  cups  of  flour;  2  cups  of 
hickory  nuts  not  chopped;  flavor  with  vanilla. 


Snow  Cake: — Whites  of  5  eggs  well-beaten;  iY  cups 
sugar;  \  cup  butter;  ^  of  a  cup  of  cold  water;  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  2  cups  flour;  bake  in  loaf  and  flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  lemon. 

Orange  Cake: — 1  cup  sugar  and  3  eggs  beaten  to  a 
cream;  3  tablespoons  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, sifted  with  1  cup  of  flour. 


Ellendale,  N.  D. 


Mrs.  N.  D.  C. 


Sherbrooke,  N.  D. 


Katie  Williams. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


93 


Filling1— Grated  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange.  White 
of  I  egg,  prepare  as  for  frosting;  mix  half  with  orange  and 
spread  between  layers.  Then  put  the  other  half  or  frosting 
on  top  of  the  cake.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Whitman. 

La  Moure,  N.  D. 

COOKIES  GINGER  CAKE  AND  DOUGHNUTS. 

Cookies  should  be  rolled  out  as  soft  as  possible  and 
baked  in  a  quick  oven.  Do  not  crowd  them  together  in  the 
bake  pan  as  it  does  not  give  them  room  to  spread  and  spoils 
their  shape. 

Good  Cookies  Without  Eggs: — 2  cups  sugar;  1  cup 
butter;  I  cup  sweet  milk;  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
flavor  with  grated  nutmeg  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Sour  milk  can  be  used  and  then  use  a  small  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Caraway  Seed  Cookies: — iy  cups  white  sugar;  y  cup 
of  lard;  cup  of  butter;  caraway  seeds  to  taste;  1  cup  sour 
milk;  1  teaspoon  soda  and  flour  to  roll. 

French  Cookies: — 1  pound  sugar;  y2  pound  butter;  5 
ep"gs;  flavor  with  2  tablespoons  of  vanilla;  flour  enough  to 
mix  so  as  to  roll  out  nicely.  Before  rolling  the  dough  sprin- 
kle the  board  with  powdered  sugar  and  cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter.    Roll  verv  thin. 

Oakes,  N.  D'.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Excellent  Cookies: — 5  cups  flour;  2  cups  sugar;  icup 
butter;  2  eggs;  3  tablespoons  cold  water  and  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Mix  sugar  and  flour  together  and  rub  in  butter  the  same  as 
for  piecrust.  Dissolve  soda  in  the  water,  then  add  this  and 
the  eggs.  In  cold  weather  use  4  spoons  water,  but  never 
warm  water.  Mrs.  W.  F.  W. 

Seed  Cookies: — 1  pound  of  flour;  y  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter; y  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  1  ounce  caraway  seeds.  Mix 
well  together;  moisten  with  3  well  beaten  eggs.  Roll  out  and 
cut  to  suit  taste.  "Quitwood  Farm." 

Cream  Cookies: — iy  cups  sugar;  1  cup  thick  cream, 
sour;  y  teaspoon  salaratus;  pinch  of  salt  and  any  seasoning 
preferred.  Mrs.  F.  R. 

Cookies: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sour  cream;  y  cup  butter; 
I  egg;  1  teaspoon  soda;  a  littlenutmeg;  flour  to  make  dough 
as  soft  as  can  be  rolled  out;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Dexter,  Minn.  Mrs.  John  Linnell. 


94 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Cookies: — i  cup  white  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  i  egg;  2  ta- 
blespoons sweet  milk,  and  \y2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Add  sufficient  flour  to  roll  thin.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sylvian. 

Cocoanut  Cookies: — 2  cups  white  sugar;  1  cup  butter; 
2  cups  grated  cocoanut;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 
mix  with  enough  flour  to  roll  easy;  roll  out  thin;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven,  but  not  brown.  E.  Thomas. 

Nice  Cream  Cookies  : — 1  cup  sour  cream ;  small  teaspoon 
soda;  1  egg;  1  cup  sugar.  Flavor  to  taste.  Mix  rather  soft 
and  bake.  Ella  R.  S. 

Cheap  Cookies:— 2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  lard;  1  cup  boil- 
ing water  and  1  teaspoon  soda.    Good  and  quickly  made. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  W. 

Cookies: — 1  cup  white  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1  egg;  3 
tablespoons  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add 
sufficient  flour  to  roll  thin.  Add  caraway  seed  if  you  like. 
Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Dexter,  Minn.  Mrs.  John  Linnell. 

Cookies: — 2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  4  eggs;  2/z  cup  of 
milk;  2 teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 
Inver  Grove,  Minn.        Miss  Caroline  M.  Weber. 

Cookies  Without  Eggs  for  the  Little  Ones: — 1  cup 
thick  sour  cream;  1  cup  white  sugar;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  tea- 
spoon lemon  or  vanilla;  mix  very  soft  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  I  think  if  this  recipe  is  given  a  thorough  trial  it  can- 
not fail  to  give  good  results. 

La  Moure  Co.  Hattie  Holcomb. 

Cookies: — 1  cup  of  white  sugar;  y2  cup  of  butter;  1  egg; 
y2  cup  sweet  milk  and  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  add 
flour  to  roll  thin;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

York,  Dak.  Mrs.  J.  Waltar. 

Cookies: — 1  cup  of  sugar;  1  egg;  y2  cup  of  butter;  y2  cup 
sour  milk;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  mix  very  soft  and  bake. 

Victor,  Mont.  Mrs.  W.  A.  D. 

Drop  Cookies: — 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  sweet 
milk;  whites  of  2  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  y2  nut- 
meg; flour  enough  to  stir  very  thick;  drop  in  small  spoonsfuls 
on  buttered  tins  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Ellendale.  Mrs.  N.  D.  C. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


95 


Emma's  Cookies: — 2  cups  white  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1 
cup  sour  cream  or  milk;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  soft, 
roll  thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Good  Cookies: — 2  cups  sugar;  1  of  butter;  1  of  sour 
cream;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Do  not  mix  too  stiff;  sift 
granulated  sugar  over  them  and  gently  roll  it  in. 

Stevensville,  Mont.  N.  E.  H. 

Good  Cookies: — 2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sour 
cream;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda;  mix  soft;  roll  thin,  and  sift 
granulated  sugar  over  the  top. 

Waterbury,  S.  D.  Mrs.  L.  A.  W. 

Cookies: — 1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  1  egg;  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla;  ^  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  water;  flour  enough 
to  roll  very  soft;  cut  in  shape  and  bake  with  quick  fire. 

Mapleton,  N.  D.  Gertie  M. 

Cookies: — 8  cups  flour;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter;  1 
cup  of  sweet  cream;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  fla 
vor  with  extract  of  orange  or  lemon.    Sift  white  sugar  over 
top  when  rolled  to  cut. 

Victor,  Mont.  Mrs.  R.  F.  . 

White  Cookies: — 4  eggs;  3  tablespoons  sweet  milk;  1%.. 
cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  teaspoon  soda;  flour  enough  to 
roll.    Flavor  with  lemon.    Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

No.  1  Cookies: — 1  cup  melted  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  2 
eggs;  ^2  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  saleratus  dissolved  in 
the  milk.  Mix  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  nicely  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  F.  C. 

White  Cookies: — 2  eggs;  2  cups  of  white  sugar;  1  cup 
of  butter;  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  little  cold  water;  flour  to 
stiffen;  roll  out  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Tower  City.  E.  F.  M. 

Sugar  Cookies: — 1%  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of  butter;  r 
cup  of  sour  cream;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  lemon  ex- 
tract; flour  to  mix  soft.  The  knack  in  having  good  cookies 
is  in  having  the  heat  of  the  oven,  just  right. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  J.  F.  D. 

Cream  Cookies: — 1  teacup  of  cream;  1  cup  of  sugar;  ^ 
cup  of  butter;  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  enough  flour 


96 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


to  make  very  stiff;  roll  thin;  powdered  sugar  dusted  over  the 
top. 

Tower  City,  N.  D.  B.  E.  R. 

Everlasting  Cookies: — Cream  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1 
cup  of  butter;  then  add  2  eggs;  %  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  3 
even  teaspoons  baking  powder;  season  to  taste;  add  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  thin;  sprinkle  a  little  su- 
gar over  the  top  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.       M.  A.  O. 

Christmas  and  Thanksgiving  Cookies: — 4  fresh  eggs, 
most  thoroughly  beaten;  2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter. 
The  three  ingredients  are  creamed  until  very  light,  and 
smooth.  Lemon  to  flavor,  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  best 
baking  powder  to  4  cups  of  flour  many  times  sifted. 

Valley  Creek,  Minn.  Mrs.  W.  S. 

Oatmeal  Cookies: — (Good).  4  cups  wheat  flour;  4  cups 
oatmeal  or  rolled  oats;  1  cup  melted  butter;  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  of  sour,  or  buttermilk;  1  teaspoon 
soda;  roll  thin  as  pie  crust;  cut  in  squares  with  knife. 

Big  Rapids,  Mich.  Anon. 

Oatmeal  Cookies: — 3  cups  oatmeal;  iy2  cups  flour;  1 
cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  hot  water;  a  little  salt;  1  tea- 
spoon soda. 

Acton,  N.  D.  Lizzie  P. 

Ginger  Cookies: — 2  cups  New  Orleans  molasses;  1  cup 
melted  lard;  y2  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  ginges;  1  tablespoon 
soda. 

Acton,  N.  D.  Lizzie  P. 

Ginger  Cookies: — 2  eggs;  1  cup  of  white  sugar;  y2  cup 
of  molasses;  1  cup  of  butter;  1  tablespoon  of  ginger;  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda  in  cold  water;  mix  soft  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  S.  F.  M. 

Ginger  Cookies: — 1  tea  cup  sorghum;  2/z  cup  sugar;  y$ 
cup  butter;  2/z  cup  lard;  2  even  teaspoons  soda;  2  teaspoons 
ginger;  1  tablespoon  water. 

Tower  City,  N.  D.  B.  E.  R. 

Ginger  Cookies: — 1  cup  lard;  2  cups  brown  sugar;  1 
cup  molasses;  1  tablespoon  ginger;  1  tablespoon  cloves;  1 
small  nutmeg;  1  cup  boiling  water;  \\  teaspoons  soda. 

Benson,  Minn.  Annie  E. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


97 


Molasses  Cookies: — i  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  i  cup  of 
molasses;  black  is  the  best;  iegg;  2  tablespoons  of  lard;  salt; 
i  teaspoon  of  soda;  mix  to  roll  with  white  flour;  cut  with 
cookie  cutter;  bake  carefully. 

Valley  Creek,  Minn.  Mrs.  W.  S. 

Molasses  Drops: — I  cup  molasses;  i  egg;  \  cup  sour 
milk;  4  tablespoons  melted  butter;  ^teaspoon  soda;  1  tea- 
spoon ginger;  drop  in  small  spoonful  in  a  tin  well  greased 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

La  Moure,  N.  D.  Hattie  Holcomb. 

Ginger  Cookies: — 2  cups  of  molasses;  1  cup  of  lard;  1 
cup  of  sugar;  2/z  cup  sour  milk;  2  eggs;  3  teaspoons  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  milk;  1  tablespoon  of  ginger;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Victor,  Mont.  Mrs.  M.  A.  D. 

Baker's  Molasses  Cookies: — 3  cups  molasses;  1  cup 
brown  sugar;  1  cup  shortening;  1  cup  sour  milk;  2  teaspoons 
ginger,  1  teaspoon  cloves;  2  teaspoons  soda;  knead  in  flour 
as  for  cookies  and  let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  roll 
out  and  bake. 

Northfield,  Minn.  Anne  J.  Chester. 

Ginger  Snaps: — 1  cup  each  of  hot  water,  sugar,  molas- 
ses and  lard;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  tablespoon  of  gin- 
ger; flour  enough  to  make  a  pretty  stiff  batter;  drop  with  a 
teaspoon  on  a  buttered  tin  leaving  room  to  rise;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Buffalo,  N.  D.  Mrs.  P.  Rell, 

Ginger  Snaps: — 1  cup  of  molasses;  1  cup  of  sugar;  % 
cup  of  lard;  cup  of  butter;  2  teaspoons  of  ginger;  1  table- 
spoon of  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  of  soda,  put  the  soda  in  the 
vinegar  and  stir  to  a  froth  putting  it  last  except  the  flour; 
add  enough  flour  to  roll  without  sticking. 

Chatfield,  Minn.  J.  F.  H. 

Ginger  Snaps: — 1  cup  ot  lard;  1  cup  of  New  Orleans 
molasses;  1  cup  of  brown  sugar;  ^  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon 
ginger;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  and  enough  flour  to  make 
them  quite  stiff.  Roll  out  in  little  balls  with  the  hands  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  F.  D. 

Ginger  Snaps: — 1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses;  let 


93 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


this  come  to  a  boil;  then  add  2  teaspoons  baking  soda;  let 
this  mixture  cool;  now  mix  I  cup  of  butter  %  cup  of  sugar; 
and  2  eggs,  well  together;  then  add  the  molasses,  and  2  ta- 
blespoons of  water;  2  of  ginger;  I  of  cinnamon;  and  a  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves  and  allspice;  add  sufficient  flour  to  roll 
the  dough  easily ;  roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.   M.  A.  O. 

Ginger  Snaps:- — \y2  cups  syrup;  54 cup  shortening,  but- 
ter or  lard;  or  V2  of  each;  2  tablespoons  sugar;  3  teaspoons 
vinegar,  2  teaspoons  baking  soda  dissolved  in  the  vinegar;  1 
tablespoon  ginger;  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves; 
stir  this  mixture  well*  mix  stiff;  roll  thin;  bake  quickly. 

M.  A.  O. 

Baker's  Ginger  Snaps: — Boil  all  together  the  following 
ingredients:  2  cups  brown  sugar;  2  cups  cooking  molasses;  1 
cup  of  shortening  which  should  be  part  butter:  1  large  ta- 
blespoon of  ginger;  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  of 
cloves.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  In  the  mean- 
time sift  4  cups  of  flour  and  stir  it  into  the  above  mixture; 
now  dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  tablespoon  of  warm  wa- 
ter and  beat  into  the  mixture;  stir  in  the  remainder  of  the 
flour,  and  make  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

Tower  City,  N.  D.  B.  E.  R. 

Ginger  Snaps: — 1  cup  molasses;  1  egg;  y2  cup  sugar;  1 
cup  lard;  1  small  spoonful  ginger  and  1  of  soda;  and  flour  to 
work  up  quite  stiff;  roll  thin  and  bake. 

Ellendale,  N.  D.  Mrs.  N.  D.  C. 

Ginger  Snaps: — 1  bowl  each  of  sugar,  molasses  and 
lard.  Set  on  the  stove  and  boil  2  or  3  minutes  if  wanted, 
and  when  cool  add  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  tablespoon  of  cinna- 
mon; and  1  of  cloves  or  ginger;  flour  enough  to  stiffen. 

Rochester,  Minn.  Margaret  Waldron. 

Ginger  Snaps: — Bring  to  a  scald  1  cup  of  molasses; 
stir  in  \  a  tablespoon  of  soda;  pour  it  while  foaming  over,  1 
cup  of  granulated  sugar;  1  egg;  scant  tablespoon  of  ginger, 
also  1  of  ground  cloves  beaten  together;  then  add  1  table- 
spoon of  vinegar;  flour  enough  to  roll;  stirred  in  as  lightly 
as  possible;  do  not  have  oven  as  hot  as  for  cookies. 

Inkster,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  F.  W. 

Ginger  Snaps — Such  as  we  Buy:— t  cup  sugar;  1  cup 
molasses;  1  cup  butter;  1  tablespoon  ginger;  1  teaspoon  so- 
da dissolved  in  a  little  water;  and  as  much  flour  as  can  be 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


99 


stirred  in.  Pinch  off  pieces  as  large  as  a  good  sized  marble; 
roll  in  the  hands;  flatten  slightly  and  place  in  the  tin,  leaving 
room  for  them  to  spread.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
watch  closely,  as  they  burn  easily.  Leave  in  the  tin  until 
cool  enough  to  snap.    Children's  delight.    Mrs.  Polka. 

Ginger  Cookies: — I  egg;  i  cup  sugar;  i  cup  molasses 
I  tablespoon  soda;  I  tablespoon  vinegar;  I  tablespoon  gin 
ger;  roll  thin;  bake  quickly.    These  are  very  much  like  store 
ginger  cookies. 

Sugar  Gingerbread: — i  egg;  i  cup  of  sugar;  |  a  cup  of 
shortening;  4  tablespoonfuls  milk;  1  teaspoontul  cream  tar- 
tar; teaspoonful  soda;  2  cups  flour;  (sour  milk  can  be 
used  in  place  of  the  sweet  using  a  little  more  soda  and  no 
cream  tartar.  Mrs.  J.  A.  W. 

Rolla,  N.  D. 

Ginger  Bread: — cup  sugar;  1  cup  molasses;  1  tea- 
spooneach  of  cinnamon,ginger  and  cloves;2  teaspoons  soda, 
in  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  2%  cups  flour;  add  2  well-beaten 
eggs  before  baking. 

Ginger  Cake: — |  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  molas- 
ses; 1  cup  sour  milk;  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda;  1  table- 
spoon ginger;  4  cups  flour.  M.  E.  M. 

Soft  Gingerbread: — 1}4  cups  molasses;  J  cup  brown 
sugar;  y  cup  butter;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoonful  soda; 
1  teaspoonful  allspice;  y2  teaspoonful  ginger;  3  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Carter. 

Ginger  Cake: — 1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  hot  water;  1  tea- 
spoonful soda;  1  cup  butter;  1  teaspoon  ginger.  Beat  soda 
in  the  molasses,  next  butter  and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients; 
enough  flour  to  make  a  moderate  stiff  batter.    Mrs.  J.  W. 

Rolla,  N.  D. 

Soft  Gingerbread: — 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sour  cream;  1  cup  molasses;  4  cups  of  sifted  flour;  1  table- 
spoon ginger;  1  tablespoon  of  soda;  the  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon;  3  eggs  well  beaten.  Mrs.  M.  A.  D- 

Victor,  Montana. 

Ginger  Bread: — 1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  1 
cup  sour  milk;  ^  of  a  cup  of  butter;  2  eggs;  1  large  teaspoon 
soda;  1  tablespoon  ginger.  M.  E.  B. 

Teeswater,  Ont. 


100 


THF   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Fruit  Gingerbread: — 3  eggs  beaten;  2  cups  brown  su- 
gar; 1  cup  of  molasses;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sour  cream;  2 
cups  raisins;  generous  quantity  of  lemon  or  citron  peel; 
heaping  tablespoon  ginger;  i|  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  water;  flour  to  make  rather  stiff.  Bake  in  a  large 
dripping  pan.  And  it  will  cut  into  forty  good  sized  pieces. 
Splendid.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Canada  Gingerbread: — 1  cup  of  butter;  2  of  sugar;  1 
of  molasses;  5  of  flour;  3  eggs;  1  nutmeg;  1  teaspoonful  of 
ginger;  1  of  soda;  1  teacup  of  cream;  1  tablespoan  of  cinna- 
mon; 1  pound  of  currants.  Bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven;  if  in  three  sheets  twenty-five;  if  in  two'  ten  minutes 
longer.  Mary  I.  W. 

Churchs  Ferry,  N.  D. 

Bell's  Ginger  Cake: — iy  cups  each  of  sugar,  molas- 
ses and  sour  milk;  \  cup  of  shortening;  2  eggs  if  convenient 
(is  good  without);  2  teaspoonfuls  saleratus;  1  tablespoonful 
ginger;  6  cups  flour;  let  sugar,  molasses,  shortening  and  gin- 
ger heat  together;  then  remove  from  fire  and  add  milk,  eggs 
and  soda,  and  lastly  flour  stirring  in  slowly;  beat  all  well. 
By  adding  a  few  raisins  this  makes  a  good  fruit  cake. 

Fried  Cakes: — 2  cups  buttermilk;  2  cups  sweet  cream; 
4}^,  cups  granulated  sugar;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon; 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 

Doughnuts: — 3  eggs;  \y2  cups  buttermilk;  y  cup  lard; 

1  teaspoonful  soda;  y2  a  nutmeg;  flour.        M.  E.  Van  D. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D. 

Doughnuts: — 1^  cups  sugar;  %  cup  butter;  1  cup  butter- 
milk; 4  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar; 
flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  S.  E.  L. 

Excellent  Doughnuts: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sweet  milk; 

2  eggs;  \  teaspoonful  salt;  4  teaspoonfuls  melted  lard;  3 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flour  enough  to 
roll  well.    This  quantity  makes  three  dozen.  Minnie. 

Monango,  N.  D. 

Doughnuts: — i^  cups  sour  mixing;  1  cup  white  sugar; 
1  egg  beaten;  2  tablespoonfuls  good  cream.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg;  add  a  little  salt;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Work  rather 
soft,  roll,  cut  and  fry  in  smoking  (somewhat)  lard.  While 
hot  roll  in  white  sugar. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


IOI 


Doughnuts: — I  cup  buttermilk;  i  cup  thick  sour  cream; 
\y2  cups  sugar;  3  eggs;  4 tablespoons  melted  lard;  1  teaspoon 
soda  and  y2  nutmeg.    Mix  soft.  Mrs.  W.  F.  W. 

Doughnuts: — 1  coffee  cup  sour  milk;  3  tablespoons  hot 
fat;  Yz  cup  sugar;  1  egg;  scant  teaspoon  soda;  mix  soft  and 
handle  as  little  as  possible. 

Northfield,  Minn.  Mrs.  J.  S.  W. 

Doughnuts: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sour  milk;  1  egg;  2  ta- 
blespoons lard  well  melted;  1  small  teaspoon  soda;  use  as 
little  flour  as  will  roll.  If  they  are  too  stiff  they  are  not  so 
light  as  when  soft. 

Hensel,  N.  D.  Mrs.  D.  T. 

Doughnuts: — Mix  by  sifting  2  or  3  times,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  with  1  quart  of  flour;  beat  2  eggs 
with  1  coffee  cup  of  sugar;  adding  a  teacup  of  new  milk  and 
1  teaspoon  butter;  mix  all  together  reserving  a  little  flour  to 
roll  out;  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  A.  D.  K. 

Doughnuts: — 1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  sour  cream;  1  cup  sour 
milk;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolv- 
ed in  boiling  water;  a  pinch  of  salt;  flour  to  rollout  easily. 

Dickey  Co.  Mrs.  W.  F.  Dodge. 

Excellent  Doughnuts: — 1  teacup  of  sugar  and  sour 
milk;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  soda;  a  piece  of  butter  not  larger 
than  your  little  finger;  a  little  nutmeg;  and  salt  and  flour  to 
roll  out;  fry  in  deep  fat. 

York,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  Walker. 

Doughnuts: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  butter  size 
of  an  egg;  1  egg;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  (or  sour  milk 
and  soda  can  be  used  if  preferred);  flour  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Whitman. 

Lovely  Doughnuts: — Scald  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  add  2 
tablespoons  butter;  stand  aside  to  cool;  when  cool,  stir  in  \ 
cup  yeast;  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough;  knead  lightly;  cover, 
stand  aside  to  rise.  When  light  roll  out;  cut  in  thin  cakes 
with  large  cutter;  make  hole  in  the  center.  Sprinkle  with 
flour;  let  stand  y2  hour  covered.  Fry  in  boiling  lard;  when 
done  sift  sugar  over.  Lovely  if  the  directions  are  carried 
out.  Mrs.  Polka. 


Cream  Crullers: — \y2  cups  sugar;  2  cups  cream;  2eggs; 


102 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  mixed  in  enough  flour  to  roll 
soft.    Cut  in  desired  shapes,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard. 
Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Katie  Williams. 

Cocoanut  Drops: — Equal  to  those  made  by  confection- 
ers, i  cup  dessicated  cocoanut;  %  cup  white  sugar,  pow- 
dered preferred,  although  granulated  answers  the  purpose 
well.  Mix  thoroughly;  add  white  of  I  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth;  scant  tablespoon  corn  starch  or  flour.  Drop  in  but- 
tered tins  and  bake  quickly.  Ella  S. 

Hickorynut  Kisses: — Whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff;  r 
pound  powdered  sugar;  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  and  I  pound 
hickorynut  kernels.  Drop  on  well  buttered  tins  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  but  be  careful  to  weigh  everything  ex- 
actly. 

Valley  Creek,  Minn.  Mrs.  W.  S. 

PIES. 

Lemon  Pie: — This  pie  calls  for  i  egg;  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  i  cup  of  white  sugar;  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  corn  starch;  i  cup  of  boiling  water;  and  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg;  stir  corn  starch  into  a  paste  with  a  little  cold 
water;  then  add  it  to  the  cup  of  boiling  water  which  has 
been  poured  in  a  saucepan  and  set  over  the  fire;  add  the 
butter,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  and 
continue  stirring  till  the  mixture  is  clear  and  thickens;  then 
take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  the  egg;  now  bake  the  pie  crust; 
after  it  is  done  pour  the  mixture  in  the  pie;  put  back  in  the 
oven  for  five  minutes.  Mrs.  A.  D.  Adrian. 

Lemon  Pie — (Extra  Nice): — Grate  the  yellow  from  i 
lemon,  do  not  use  the  white  part  as  it  will  make  it  bitter; 
take  out  the  seeds  and  cut  very  fine;  put  over  the  stove  to 
boil  with  i  cup  of  water  and  I  cup  of  sugar  and  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  a  wralnut;  take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  put  into  a 
teacup  and  fill  2/z  with  water;  thicken  with  flour  thick  as 
cream,  then  stir  in  the  other  and  boil  a  few  minutes;  have 
ready  a  plate  with  one  crust,  turn  in  and  bake  until  ciust  is 
done;  now  take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  make  the  frost- 
ing with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  set  in  the  oven  to  rise  a 
little  while.  Mrs.  A.  D.  K. 

Lisbon,  N.  D. 

Lemon  Pie: — 2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch; 
butter  size  of  an  egg;  i%  cups  sugai ;  3  eggs;  2  lemons,  grate 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


103 


the  rind;  dissolve  the  starch  and  pour  boiling  water  over 
until  thick,  (the  same  as  you  make  starch  for  clothes);  melt 
the  butter  and  sugar  in  the  starch;  squeeze  the  lemon  and 
take  out  the  seeds;  use  the  whites  of  2  eggs  for  the  top. 
Makes  2  pies.  Mrs.  R.  R.  B. 

Page,  N.  D. 

Lemon  Pie: — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon;  yolks  of 
2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon  butter;  1  teaspoon  corn 
starch;  ^  cup  water;  bake  with  one  crust;  when  baked  cover 
with  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff;  2  tablespoons  of  white 
sugar;  put  in  the  oven  to  brown.      Mrs.  E.  N.  Whitman. 

La  Moure,  N.  D. 

Good  Cheap  Lemon  Pie: — Use  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  1  large  lemon;  peel,  wash  and  grate  a  raw  potato  the 
size  of  a  lemon,  (peel  thinly  so  as  to  obtain  as  much  as  pos- 
sible of  the  starchy  element  of  the  potato);  and  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour  stirred  into  a  cupful  of  white  sugar;  1 
cup  cold  water;  mix  all  these  wrell  together  and  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Then  pour  it  into  a  previously  prepared  pie  crust 
and  bake. 

Next,  beat  the  white  of  1  egg  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  beat  this  a  minute  with  a  spoon 
(do  not  add  sugar  until  white  of  egg  is  beaten,  else  it  will 
be  a  failure);  when  pie  is  about  done  spread  this  on  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  to  slightly  brown  the  top.  Spread  egg  on 
as  soon  as  it  s  made.  M.  A.  O. 

Lemon  Pie: — 1  cup  water;  1  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls 
corn  starch;  1  lemon,  grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  and 
squeeze  the  juice  into  the  sugar  and  water  and  let  it  boil; 
dissolve  the  starch  in  cold  water  and  stir  in  the  boiling  in- 
gredients, then  stir  rapidly  until  clear;  put  in  a  piece  of  but- 
ter and  allow  it  to  cool;  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
bake  the  crust;  put  in  the  jelly;  spread  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs  on  top  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

Ayr,  N.  D.  E.  E.  R. 

Lemon  Pie: — 1  lemon  grated;  1  cup  sugar;  yolks  of  3 
eggs;  small  piece  of  butter;  3  tablespoons  milk;  1  teaspoon 
corn  starch;  beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  rich  crust. 
Beat  the  whites  with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar;  place  on  the 
pie  when  done  and  then  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

E.  Thomas. 


104 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Lemon  Pie: — The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  I  lemon;  i 
cup  of  sugar;  I  cup  water;  I  egg;  I  tablespoon  flour;  a  piece 
of  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Cook  until  it  thickens;  then 
bake  between  two  crusts.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Larson. 

Dickey,  N.  D. 

Lemon  Pie: — i  cup  sugar;  i  cup  hot  water;  i  tablespoon 
corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water;  I  teaspoon  butter;  beat- 
en yolks  of  2  eggs;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons. 
Cook  four  minutes;  bake  with  a  rich  under  crust;  when  done 
cover  with  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
return  to  the  oven  and  brown  slightly.         Ethel  Segar. 

Mazeppa,  Minn. 

Pieplant  Lemon  Pie: — i  large  cup  of  chopped  rhubarb; 
I  cup  sugar;  I  large  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cup  of  water;  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs;  I  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence;  bake  with 
one  crust  and  when  the  pie  is  done  have  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  up;  add  I  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  and  put  on  top  of 
the  pie;  return  to  the  oven  and  brown.         Mrs.  P.  R.  M. 

Buffalo,  N.  D. 

Lemon  Pie: — For  three  pies,  3  cups  of  water;  \y2  cups 
sugar;  put  on  the  stove  till  hot;  grate  three  lemons;  add  the 
lemon  to  the  hot  water;  also  add  4  eggs  well  beaten;  and  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch;  keep  whites  of  eggs  for  top 
make  crust  and  put  in  the  filling;  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

P.  R.  M. 

Lemon  Pie:— Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon;  3  beat- 
en yolks;  1  cup  sugar;  3  tablespoonfuls  milk;  1  large  tea- 
spoonful  Kingsley's  corn  starch  moistened  in  cold  milk; 
beat  all  together  well  and  bake  in  a  rich  under  crust.  De- 
licious. Cecile  I.  Boughton. 

Lemon  Pie: — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon;  1  cup 
sugar;  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  \  a  cup  cream;  2  teaspoons  corn 
starch;  beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  rich  crust;  beat  the 
whites  and  spread  over  the  top  when  done.  Then  brown  in 
oven.  L.  A.  W. 

Waterbury,  S.  D. 

Lemon  Pie  With  Two  Crusts: — Line  your  pie  tin  with 
paste;  slice  lemon  very  thin;  lay  on  the  crust(it  is  not  neces- 
sary that  it  should  be  entirely  covered;  sprinkle  a  teaspoon 
of  flour  over  and  a  scant  y2  cup  sugar;  cover  with  small 
pieces  of  crust;  put  lemon,  flour  and  sugar  on  top  of  this 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


crust  the  same  as  before  and  pour  2/z  of  a  cup  of  water  over; 
then  put  on  your  top  crust.  I  large  lemon  will  make  two 
pies.  I  generally  use  two  lemons  for  three  pies;  much  de- 
oends  on  the  lemon  being  sliced  thin.  Mrs.  P.  R.  M. 

Buffalo,  N.  D.  v 

Mock  Cream  Pie:—  i  beaten  egg;  i  cup  sugar;  i  cup 
rich  cream  (or  milk);  y  cup  vinegar;  y2  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice;  bake  with  two  crusts. 

CECILE  I.  BOUGHTON. 

Cream  Pie: — Line  pie  tin  with  nice  paste;  ^  of  a  cup 
sugar  in  which  stir  well  I  heaping  tablespoon  flour  or  corn 
starch;  I  pint  nice  thick  sweet  cream;  stir  all  together;  pour 
in  tin  and  bake;  an  upper  crust  may  be  used  if  desired; 
lemon  extract  may  be  used  to  season.  Mrs.  L.  A.  P. 

Glyndon,  Minn. 

Cream  Pie: — Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well;  add  y2  cup 
sweet  cream  or  milk;  3  tablespoons  flour  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk;  place  I  cup  sugar  on  the  stove  with  a  little  water,  w7hen 
it  boils  pour  hot  over  the  other  ingredients  adding  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth  with  2  tablespoons  sugar;  after  the  pies  are 
done  spread  over  top  and  brown  lightly.  This  makes  two 
pies.  Mrs.  J.  W. 

Rolla,  N.  D. 

Gem  Pie: — Fill  a  pie  dish  with  sliced  apples;  make  a 
batter  of  I  cup  buttermilk;  1  large  spoonful  cream;  y2  tea- 
spoonful  saleratus,  the  same  of  salt;  thicken  with  flour  and 
turn  it  over  the  apples.  When  done  turn  it  bottom  upwards, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  nutmeg;  to  be  eaten  with  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  P. 

Mock  Mince  Pies: — 6  soda  crackers  rolled  fine;  2  cups 
cold  water;  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  cup  sour 
cider  or  vinegar;  iy  cups  melted  butter;  iy  cups  raisins; 
\y2  cups  currants;  iy  cups  citron  cut  fine;  I  tablespoonful 
cinnamon;  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg;  1  teaspoonful  cloves;  I 
teaspoonful  salt;  1  teaspoonful  black  pepper;  2  eggs  beaten 
light.    A  lemon  makes  a  nice  addition.    Enough  for  6  pies. 

Ayr,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  E. 

Mock  Mince  Pie: — Stew  2  cups  of  currants  and  1  cup  of 
raisins  with  y  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  or  1  lemon;  y  a  cup  of 
molasses;  1  cup  of  sugar;  y  spoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinna- 


io6 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


mon  and  allspice;  cover  with  water  and  stew  until  tender; 
while  stewing  break  up  2  cupfuls  of  dry  bread,  soak  soft 
with  warm  water;  beat  up  and  add  to  the  fruit  when  nearly 
done;  pour  on  water  until  of  the  right  consistency;  stew  the 
bread  until  it  looks  like  jelly;  watch  it  does  not  burn.  Bake 
with  two  crusts;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  big  as  a  hen's  egg. 

Mrs.  G.  S.  J. 

Mock  Mince  Pie: — i  teacup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs; 
I  teacup  raisins;  I  teacup  water;  I  teacup  vinegar;  I  teacup 
sugar;  I  teacup  molasses;  a  teacup  melted  butter;  I  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg.  This 
quantity  is  enough  for  two  pies.  M.  A.  O. 

Fullerton,  N.  D. 

Mock  Mince: — i  cup  sugar;  i  cup  molasses;  y2  cup  of 
vinegar;  ij^  cups  water;  I  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  %  spoon- 
ful cloves;  I  small  nutmeg;  I  cup  crackers  or  bread  crumbs; 
Ys  cup  butter,  and  raisins  to  suit.  This  is  enough  for  two 
large  pies  or  three  small  ones.  Mrs.  S.  Barkalow. 

Mince  Meat: — Boil  5  pounds  beef  and  chop  fine  with 
3  pounds  suet.  Seed  4  pounds  raisins.  Wash  4  pounds 
currants.  Chop  4  quarts  apples;  add  plenty  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, ginger,  nutmeg,  juices  and  rind  of  2  lemons  (or  table- 
spoon extract);  1  teaspoon  pepper;  2  pounds  sugar;  3  ounces 
butter;  1  quart  molasses.  Heat  to  boil  and  put  away  in  jars 
for  winter  use.  M.  E.  N.  D. 

Good  Mince  Meat: — 1  pound  raisins  chopped;  1% 
pounds  currants;  1  pound  brown  sugar;  2  pounds  apples 
minced  fine;  1  teacup  brandy;  2  nutmegs;  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon and  allspice;  %  cup  molasses;  %  pound  lemon  and  cit- 
ron peel  minced  fine;  tablespoon  mixed  essence;  %  pound 
lean  beef  minced  fine.  M.  D.  G. 

Des  Lacs,  N.  D. 

Pumpkin  Pie: — Stew  enough  pumpkin  to  allow  about  a 
cup  for  each  pie;  watch  that  it  does  not  scorch  and  when 
soft  put  through  a  colander;  add  1  well-beaten  egg;  nearly  1 
cup  of  sugar;  2  cups  of  rich  milk;  \  teaspoonful  salt;  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon  and  ginger;  bake  with  rich  under  crust. 
When  baked  the  pumpkin  should  be  %  of  an  inch  high. 

CECILE  I.  BOUGHTON. 

Pumpkin  Pie: — 1  quart  pumpkin  stewed  and  pressed 
through  a  sieve;  2  quarts  milk;  2  cups  sugar;  7  eggs  beaten 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


10/ 


until  light;  I  teaspoon  butter;  ginger  and  cinnamon  to  suit; 
stir  well  together  and  bake  in  plain  crust.  Autumn. 
Hawley,  Clay  Co.,  Minn. 

Excellent  Pumpkin  Pie: — Pare  and  slice  pumpkins  as 
for  apple  pie,  put  into  an  earthen  jar,  adding  allspice,  cinna- 
mon, etc.,  vinegar  enough  to  cook  it  in;  if  vinegar  is  too 
strong  weaken  it  some  with  water;  cover  closely  and  set  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  to  stew  for  a  number  of  hours.  Before 
putting  it  into  the  crust,  add  sufficient  sugar  (it  will  need 
considerable  to  obtain  satisfactory  results).  Bake  with  top 
crust.    Citron  pies  can  be  made  the  same  way.     M.  A.  0. 

Custard  Pie: — 3  well-beaten  eggs;  3^  large  tablespoons 
sugar;  2  cups  creamy  milk;  nutmeg;  pinch  of  salt;  bake 
with  rich  under  crust. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie: — Boil  1  pint  milk;  thicken  with  2 
tablespoons  corn  starch  and  take  from  fire.  Beat  in  yolks 
of  3  eggs  and  I  cup  sugar;  juice  of  2  lemons;  Pour  in  rich 
crust  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Make  meringue  of  whites; 
spread  on  top  and  brown  lightly.  M.  E.  N.  D. 

Apple  Custard  Pie: — Take  evaporated  apples;  cook 
them  well;  add  2  beaten  eggs;  the  juice  of  ^  a  lemon; 
cup  sugar;  a  small  piece  of  butter;  keep  whites  for  top;  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  E.  F.  M. 

Apple  Pie: — 3  or  4  good  sized  tart  apples,  sliced;  ^  of 
a  cup  sugar;  about  a  tablespoonful  butter;  cinnamon;  bake 
almost  brown  on  top.  Cecile  I.  Boughton. 

Apple  Pie: — Pare  and  core  apples;  lay  the  quarters 
round  side  on  the  crust;  sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar  and 
put  on  small  lumps  of  butter;  season  with  cinnamon  or  all- 
spice. If  the  apples  are  not  juicy  add  a  little  water;  bake 
with  one  crust.  H.  S.  B. 

Marlborough  Pie: — 1  cup  dried  apple  sauce;  2  eggs. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly;  add  apples;  sweeten  and 
flavor;  spice  or  extract.  Beat  all  together  until  it  resembles 
a  thick  cream;  make  into  pies  using  only  an  undercrust. 
When  baked  spread  with  whites  beaten  very  stiff,  to  which 
only  enough  sugar  has  been  added  to  sweeten. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  H. 

Transparent  Pie: — 3  eggs;  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  1 
teacupful  rich  cream;  3  tablespoonfuls  jelly;  1  tablespoonful 


io8 


THF   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


butter;  flavor  with  lemon;  bake  with  one  crust.  "Delicious." 

H.  S.  B. 

Raspberry  Cream  Pie: — i  cup  sugar;  i  cup  raspberries; 
I  cup  cream;  I  cup  flour  and  water  scalded  together;  2  eggs; 
lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg;  bake  with  one  crust. 

Merricourt,  N.  D.  Mrs.  R.  W. 

Evaporated  Raspberry  Pie: — i  cup  of  raspberries 
cooked  tender;  2  tablespoonfuls  flour;  I  cup  sugar;  plenty 
of  juice;  two  crusts. 

Orange  Pie: — Juice  and  grated  rind  of  I  orange;  I  cup 
sugar;  yolks  of  3  eggs;  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  smooth 
with  milk;  small  piece  of  butter;  1  cup  milk;  bake  with  1 
crust  and  frost  after  it  is  baked. 

Orange  Pie: — Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  large 
orange;  I  small  cup  of  powdered  white  sugar;  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  well  beaten;  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch;  blend  the 
starch  smooth  in  a  little  sweet  milk;  apiece  of  butter  as  large 
as  a  hickory  nut;  and  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  3  eggs  with  3  tablespoons  of  powdered  white  sugar, 
and  spread  it  on  the  top  of  the  pie  after  it  is  baked;  leaving 
it  in  the  oven  till  browned. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Mrs.  Van  Dusen. 

Carrot  Pie: — Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots;  then  cut  up 
and  boil  and  mash  as  you  would  pumpkin;  then  take  2  eggs; 

1  cup  sugar;  teaspoon  of  ginger;  a  little  salt,  and  1  quart 
of  milk;  bake  with  1  crust. 

Ellendale,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  I.  C. 

Carrot  Pie: — 2  cups  carrot  pulped  through  the  colan- 
der; 1  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;      teaspoon  ginger; 

2  eggs;  \  teaspoon  salt;  3  cups  sweet  milk;  bake  in  1  crust. 
Enough  for  2  pies. 

Niagara,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  L.  P. 

Carrot  Pie: — Foreach  teacup  of  the  boiled  and  strained 
carrot  take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  3  eggs;  sugar  to  taste;  1 
teaspoon  nutmeg;  this  makes  2  pies.    Bake  as  custard  pie 

York,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  Walker. 

Carrot  Pie: — 1  pint  carrot;  2  eggs;  1  cup  milk;  a  little 
nutmeg,  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves;  y2  cup  sugar;  put  the 
carrots  through  a  coarse  sieve;  bake  with  an  under  crust. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  W.  C. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


IO9 


Banana  Pie: — This  pie  only  requires  a  bottom  crust 
First  make  a  rich  crust  and  bake  it;  then  fill  it  with  sliced 
bananas  and  sprinkle  over  them  ^  cup  white  sugar;  put  in 
the  oven  a  little  while  as  it  only  takes  a  few  moments  to 
soften  the  fruit;  cover  with  whipped  cream,  and  serve  at  once. 

Portland,  N.  D.  Mrs.  O.  G.  H. 

Rhubarb  Pie: — Rhubarb  pie  may  be  greatly  improved 
by  adding  a  few  stoned  raisins. 

Rhubarb  Pie: — Stew  the  rhubarb;  add  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  I  lemon;  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  and 
sweeten  well  with  white  sugar;  line  pie  tins  with  good  crust; 
fill  with  the  prepared  rhubarb;  bake  until  the  crust  is  a  deli- 
cate brown;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth — it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  add  the  white  of  another  egg  and  3  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  spread  over  the  top 
of  the  pies;  return  to  the  oven  until  of  a  light  brown.  The 
eggs  and  lemon  given  are  sufficient  for  two  pies. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Currant  Pie: — 1  pound  flour;  -J  pound  butter;  2  ounces 
of  finely  powdered  loaf  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt;  1  tablespoon 
baking  powder.  Mix  the  powder,  flour,  sugar  and  salt  thor- 
oughly together;  then  rub  well  in  the  butter,  and  make  into 
stiff  paste  by  adding  a  little  milk;  roll  out  very  thin.  Fruit 
— 1  pint  of  currants;  the  yolk  of  1  egg;  sweeten  to  taste;  the 
white  may  be  used  for  meringue  if  desired. 

Valley  Creek,  Minn.  Mrs.  W.  S. 

Chocolate  Pie: — 1|  cups  water;  beat  2  tablespoons  corn 
starch;  2  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate;  when  it  boils  take 
from  the  fire:  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs;  I  cup  sugar;  beat  the 
whites;  put  ^  cup  sugar  in;  spread  on  top. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  W.  C. 

Chocolate  Pie: — Boil  2  cups  milk;  ^  of  a  cup  of  sug- 
ar; 4  tablespoons  grated  chocolate.  When  cool,  add  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs;  flavor  with  vanilla;  bake  a  rich  under  crust 
and  fill  with  the  custard;  cover  with  a  filling  made  of  the 
beaten  whites  and  sugar;  brown  slightly. 

Vinegar  Pie: — 1  egg;  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sharp 
vinegar;  and  I  teacup  cold  water;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and 
bake  with  two  crusts.  Mrs.  A.  S.  H. 

Vinegar  Pie: — 2  cups  sugar;  2  cups  hot  water;  ^  cup 


I  10 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


vinegar;  4  tablespoonfuls  flour  or  cornstarch;  mix  well  and 
bring  to  a  boil;  flavor  with  lemon  and  bake  with  two  crusts. 
Enough  for  4  pies.  M.  E. 

Ayr,  Cass  Co,,  N.  D. 

Vinegar  Pie: — 1  cup  rolled  crackers;  iy2  cups  water;  1 
cup  sugar;  I  egg  and  yolk  of  another;  8  teaspoons  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice. 

Frosting: — White  of  1  egg;  \  cup  sugar;  mix  and 
spread  on  pie. 

Vinegar  Pie: — Stir  gradually  1  pint  of  hot  water  on  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar;  ^  a  cup 
thick  paste  of  flour  and  water;  and  2  tablespoons  good  cider 
vinegar;  season  with  lemon;  1  crust  only;  beat  the  whites  to 
a  thick  froth;  mix  with  a  cup  sugar;  spread  on  top  of 
pies;  brown  lightly  in  the  oven.    This  makes  two  pies. 


Green  Tomato  Pie: — Peel  and  slice  green  tomatoes; 
add  4  tablespoons  vinegar;  1  of  butter;  3  of  sugar;  flavor 
with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon;  bake  with  two  crusts  slowly. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  H. 


Ludden,  N.  D. 


Mattie  Butler. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


PUDDINGS. 

Plain  Tapioca  Pudding: — Soak  3  tablespoons  tapio- 
ca over  night  in  a  little  water;  bring  a  pint  of  milk  and  the 
same  of  water  to  a  boil ;  add  the  tapioca  and  the  beaten  yolks 
°f  3  eSSs  with  a  cup  of  sugar;  stir  well  for  2  minutes,  and 
when  cool  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding: — Soak  3  tablespoons  sago 
or  pearl  tapioca  over  night  in  a  cup  of  milk.  In  the 
morning  pour  this  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  cook  for 
4  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  the  yolks  of  3  well  beat- 
en eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  I  teaspoon  vanilla;  stir  rapidly 
for  a  minute,  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish  to  brown  in  the 
oven;  cover  with  the  beaten  whites,  flavored  and  sweetened; 
eat  cold  with  cream. 

Cocoanut  Tapioca  Pudding: — 3  tablespoons  tapioca 
soaked  overnight;  1  cup  sugar;  yolks  of  4 eggs;  1  quart  boil- 
ing milk;  1%  or  1%  cups  of  dessicated  cocoanut;  boil  6  or  8 
minutes,  adding  the  cocoanut  last;  cover  with  a  meringue  of 
the  beaten  whites;  y2  cup  sugar;  and  plentifully  sprinkle 
with  cocoanut;  to  be  eaten  cold  with  jelly  and  cream.  These 
puddings  are  very  good  with  the  addition  of  tart  apples 
sliced  and  cooked  with  the  tapioca. 

Lemon  Tapioca  Pudding: — 3  tablespoons  sago  soaked 
over  night  in  a  little  water;  1  cup  sugar;  (if  you  use  1  lemon 
only);  1  quart  milk;  yolks  of  5  eggs;  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  1  or  2  lemons;  beat  the  eggs,  milk,  salt  and  sugar;  cover 
into  a  custard  and  then  beat  in  the  tapioca,  and  then  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Set  the  pudding  dish  into  a 
pan  of  water  and  bake,  covered  until  the  custard  'sets' . — 
Then  brown  on  the  grate. 

Tapioca  Jelly: — Soak  the  tapioca  over  night,  and  then 
let  boil  or  simmer  in  water  until  jelly  like — Add  lemon  juice 
and  strain. 

Danish  Tapioca  Pudding: — Soak  \  cup  pearl  tapioca  in 
1 pints  of  water  for  an  hour  or  more;  boil  it  then  for  an 
hour  until  it  is  jelly  like,  stirring  frequently;  stir  in  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  \  cup  currant  jelly  and  a  little  salt;  let  boil  until 
the  jelly  is  well  dissolved;  then  mold  and  serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding: — Soak  y2  a  cup  of  sago  3  hours 
in  cold  water;  in  the  morning  pare  and  core  5  tart  apples; 


112 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


I  fill  the  holes  with  sugar  and  put  in  pudding  dish;  pour  the 
j  tapioca  over  them  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  soft.  Serve 
with  milk,  or  cream  and  sugar  if  you  prefer  it.    A  cup  of 
sugar  may  be  baked  in  thef  pudding  if  you  like,  but  many 
like  it  better  without.    Splendid  for  invalids. 

Tapioca  Custard: — Soak  %  cup  of  tapioca  in  a  pint  of 
water  for  some  hours,  then  boil  with  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the 
same  of  currant  jelly  until  clear.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of 
3  or  4  eggs  and  mold.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  stir  in  it  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  a  little  sugar.  Flavor  with  salt 
and  any  preferred  essence,  and  cool.  Pour  the  custard  just 
cooked  over  the  molds  and  serve.      Cecile  I.  Boughton. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding: — Pare  and  core  enough  apples 
to  fill  dish;  put  into  each  apple  bit  of  lemon  peel.  Soak  y2 
pint  tapioca  in  I  quart  of  luke  warm  water  I  hour,  add  a  lit- 
tle salt;  flavor  with  lemon;  pour  over  apples.  Bake  until 
apples  are  tender.    Eat  when  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Miss  A.  S.  H. 

Tapioca  Cream  Pudding: — Soak  3  tablespoons  tapioca 
in  milk  over  night;  then  add  a  quart  of  milk;  and  steam  it 
gently  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  or  is  soft;  then  add  a  little 
salt;  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs;  scalded  in,  also  a  cup  of 
sugar.  Set  it  away  to  cool  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
sent  to  the  table.  Flavor  with  vanilla;  when  ready  to  use 
cover  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Steam 
it  in  a  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water.       Mrs.  L.  H.  W. 

Cummings,  N.  D. 

Tapioca  Pudding: — %  cup  tapioca  flakes  soaked  over 
night;  %  cup  sugar;  2  cups  sweet  milk;  2  eggs  beaten  light; 
%  cup  raisins;  pinch  salt.  Season  with  cinnamon  and  bake 
in  buttered  pudding  dish  for  one  hour. 

Sauce:— 1  cup  brown  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  season  to 
taste. 

Raspberry  Tap  1  oca  Pudding: — Soak  j£  cup  tapioca  over 
night  in  a  cup  of  water;  then  cook  until  clear  which  will  be 
about20  minutes;  add  a  cup  of  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt;  as  much 
or  as  little  lemon  juice  or  essence  as  you  prefer;  and  as  you 
take  from  the  fire,  a  quart  of  raspberries;  pour  into  cups  that 
have  been  dipped  in  cold  water  to  mold;  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  The  quantity  of  lemon  juice  used  of  course  deter- 
mines the  amount  of  sugar. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


113 


Peach  Tapioca: — Soak  y2  pint  of  tapioca  a  few  hours 
and  boil  until  it  softens.  Slice  peaches,  fresh,  dried,  or 
canned,  into  the  pudding  dish  and  cover  with  tapioca.  Bake 
until  tender  after  adding  sugar  to  suit  your  taste  and  serve 
with  cream.  If  the  peaches  are  dried  they  will  need  to  be 
cooked  and  softened  before  the  tapioca  is  added. 

Tapioca  Ice: — Soak  a  cup  of  tapioca  over  night  and  then 
boil  with  a  cup  of  sugar  until  clear;  chop  fine  a  can  of  pine- 
apple and  pour  over  the  boiling  tapioca  stirring  rapidly; 
serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Crushing  the  grains  of  sago  or  tapioca  with  a  rolling  pin 
will  make  the  time  it  needs  to  be  soaked  much  shorter.  If 
one  has  planned  the  dinner  for  the  morrow  though,  it  is  easy 
to  put  it  in  water  over  night,  but  if  it  is  thought  of  as  a  "has- 
ty pudding"  it  is  well  to  remember  the  crushing  process. 

Mazeppa,  Minn.  Cecile  Inez  Boughton. 

Cottage  Pudding: — 1  egg  beaten  light;  ^  cup  sugar;  1 
tablespoon  butter;  \  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  I  heaping  cup  of  flour.  Bake  on  pie  plate.  Serve 
warm  with  sauce  made  as  follows:  To  1  cup  boiling  water, 
add  y2  cup  sugar;  tablespoon  butter;  pinch  salt;  and  \  table- 
spoon corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Season  with  nut- 
meg or  vanilla;  and  boil  until  clear.  Anonymous. 

Cottage  Pudding: — 1  pint  flour;  cup  sugar;  Yz  cup 
sweet  milk;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. 

Sauce: — 2  cups  sugar;  */z  cup  butter;  1  pint  boiling  wa- 
ter: 1  nutmeg;  (or  lemon  extract  if  preferred);  thicken  with 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch  stirred  smooth  in  a  little  cold  wa- 
ter. Mrs.  W.  B.  H, 

Cottage  Pudding: — 1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  piece 
butter  size  of  an  egg;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  3  cups 
flour;  serve  warm  with  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Pudding: — 4  tablespoons  white  sugar;  2  ta- 
blespoons butter;  I  tablespoon  cornstarch,  or  flour;  1  cup 
boiling  water;  add  vinegar  and  flavoring  to  suit  taste. 

LaMoure,  N.  D.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Whitman. 

Cottage  Pudding: — 3  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  flour;  % 
cup  buttermilk;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Sift  soda  with  flour  and 
make  same  as  sponge  cake.  Serve  with  sweet  cream  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon.       Mrs.  G.  S.  J. 


U4 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Rice  Pudding: — I  cup  rice;  boil  until  done  and  evapor- 
ate the  water  from  it  with  a  gentle  heat  till  dry;  stir  together 
3  cups  milk;  i  cup  sugar;  add  2  eggs  well  beaten;  reserve 
white  of  I  egg  for  frosting;  add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter; 
pinch  of  salt;  I  cup  raisins.  When  done,  frost  with  white  of 
egg  and  tablespoon  powdered  sugar. 

Hawley,  Minn.  Autumn. 

Rice  Pudding: — 4  quarts  milk;  2  cups  rice;  2  cups  sugar; 
butter  size  of  an  egg;  when  done  add  1  cup  raisins;  stirring. 
Bake  two  hours.  Anonymous. 

Rice  Pudding: — 1  teacup  rice;  1  teacup  sugar;  1  teacup 
raisins;  small  piece  butter;  a  little  salt;  2  quarts  milk.  Bake 
from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.         Mrs.  J.  F.  D. 

Lisbon,  N.  D. 

Cocoanut  Pudding: — To  1  large  cocoanut,  grated,  add 
the  whites  of  2  eggs;  ^  pound  sugar;  ^  pound  butter;  2 
tablespoons  rosewater;  bake  it  in  a  paste. 

Ft.  Howard,  Wis.  Mrs.  E.  Schmitz. 

Chocolate  Pudding: — Put  on  to  boil  1  quart  milk;  when 
it  boils  stir  in  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  4  tablespoons  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  and  before  that  thick- 
ens put  in  2\  tablespoons  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water;  stir  it  briskly  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  to  be 
served  with  cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  O.  G.  H. 

Portland,  N.  D. 

Crust  for  Fruit  Pudding: — 2  tablespoons  butter;  2 
eggs;  2  cups  sweet  or  sour  milk;  4  teaspoons  cream  tartar;  2 
teaspoons  soda  or  5  of  baking  powder;  batter  like  pancakes; 
pour  over  the  fruit;  bake.  M.  D.  G. 

Des  Lacs,  N.  D. 

Raspberry  Pudding  No.  i: — This  pudding  can  be  made 
with  any  of  the  small  fruits  or  grated  pineapple.  Fill  a 
deep  dish  with  a  quart  of  ripe  raspberries  mashed  with  4  or 
5  large  spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  6  eggs  very 
light;  mix  them  through  a  pint  of  cream;  4  spoonfuls  sugar; 
little  nutmeg;  pour  this  over  the  berries  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Serve  cold  with  a  sauce  of  sweetened  cream; 
flavor  with  raspberry  juice.  Mrs.  W.  S. 

Valley  Creek,  Minn. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding: — Pare  and  quarter  4  large 
apples;  boil  them  tender  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon  with  so 


THE   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


115 


little  water  that  when  done  no  water  may  remain;  beat  them 
quite  fine  in  a  mortar;  add  the  crumbs  of  a  small  roll;  4 
pounds  butter  melted;  the  yolks  of  5  and  whites  of  3  eggs; 
juice  of  a  lemon;  sugar  to  your  taste;  beat  all  well  togeth- 
er and  bake  it  in  a  paste. 

Apple  Dumpling  Baked: — Make  a  rich  paste;  pare  and 
core  the  apples;  fill  the  cavities  with  sugar  and  flavor  with 
essence  of  lemon.  Cover  each  apple  with  thinly  rolled 
paste,  and  bake  in  a  tin  pan.    Serve  hot  with  rich  sauce. 

Fort  Howard,  Wis.  Mrs.  E.  Schmitz. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding: — 3  quarts  milk;  8  tablespoons 
meal:  ^  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sugar;  butter  size  of  an  egg;  1 
teaspoonful  nutmeg;  I  teaspoonful  cloves;  1  teaspoonful 
cinnamon;  y2  teaspoonful  salt;  3  eggs;  1  cup  raisins;  boil 
half  the  milk,  with  the  rest;  wet  the  meal  to  a  thin  batter  and 
stir  in  the  boiling  milk;  when  cool  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  bake  3  hours.  Mrs.  N.  B.  R. 

Edgeley,  N.  D. 

Steam  Pudding  No.  i: — 1  cup  suet;  1  cup  molasses;  1 
cup  milk;  2  eggs;  2  cups  flour;  ^  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice;  1  teaspoon  soda;  some  raisins  or 
currants.    Steam  two  hours. 

Steam  Pudding  No.  2: — 2  cups  flour;  y2  cup  butter;  1 
cup  molasses;  1  cup  raisins;  1%  cups  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda 
or  saleratus  dissolved  in  milk.  Steam  two  hours;  serve  with 
saace.  Mrs.  J.  A.  W. 

Rolla,  N.  D. 

Steamed  Pudding:— i  cup  molasses;  1  cup  milk;  y2  cup 
butter;  y2  cup  sugar;  I  cup  raisins;  1  cup  currants,  1  tea- 
spoon cloves;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg;  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder;  2  cups  flour;  steam  two  hours. 

Edgeley,  N.  D.  N.  B.  R. 

Bread  Pudding: — 1  pint  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  1  quart 
sweet  milk;  ^  cup  white  sugar;  2  eggs  thoroughly  beaten;  1 
cup  raisins;  heaping  teaspoon  butter;  pinch  of  salt.  Stir 
well  together  and  bake. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding: — 1  cup  suet;  \  cup  sugar;  4-  cup 
molasses;  1  cup  milk;  2  cups  fruit;  3  cups  flour;  1  egg;  spice 
to  taste;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  boil  3  hours. 

Hensel,  N.  D.  Mrs.  D.  T. 


n6 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Christmas  Plum  Pudding: — i  pound  raisins  chopped 
fine;  I  pound  currants;  y  pound  bread  crumbs;  y2  pound 
flour;  y  pound  beef  suet;  3  eggs;  ^  pound  citron  and  lem- 
on peel;  \  nutmeg;  ^  teaspoon  ground  ginger;  2  teaspoons 
soda;  sweet  milk  enough  to  wet  all;  tie  in  a  cloth  and  boil 
3  hours. 

Elkwood,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  Ridley. 

Cornstarch  Pudding: — 1  quart  milk;  1  tablespoon  su- 
gar; 3  tablespoons  cornstarch;  1  egg;  a  little  salt;  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla  to  suit  taste.  Boil  the  milk  andsugar;  add 
the  cornstarch  beaten  up  with  egg  and  a  little  cold  milk; 
boil  2  minutes;  add  the  flavoring  and  mold  in  cups.  To  be 
eaten  cold  with  sweetened  cream  and  milk.  Wet  the  cups 
with  cold  water  or  milk  before  putting  pudding  in  them;  it 
will  keep  pudding  from  sticking  to  the  cups. 

Dexter,  Minn.  Mrs.  J.  Linnell. 

Snow  Pudding: — 1  pint  boiling  milk;  6  tablespoons  corn- 
starch; the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff.  Wet  the  corn- 
starch in  a  little  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  and 
while  still  boiling  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar;  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  the  beaten  whites;  stir  a  few  moments  then  pour  into 
molds.  For  sauce  make  a  common  custard  of  the  3  yolks, 
and  y  pint  milk;  add  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste.  To  be  eat- 
en cold.    Water  instead  of  milk  may  be  used  if  preferred. 

M.  A.  O. 

Snow  Pudding: — (Very  Nice.)Take2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch; dissolve  and  pour  on  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  cook  about  1  minute.  Put  in  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Set  off  and  while  it  is  hot  stir  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.    This  makes  the  snow. 

Sauce  for  Snow  Pudding: — Take  1  cup  sweet  milk  and 
put  on  the  stove  in  a  saucepan.  Put  in  y2  cup  sugar;  small 
lump  butter;  the  yolks  of  the  2  eggs  well  beaten;  stir  until  it 
thickens ;  then  take  off  and  flavor  with  lemon.    Mrs.  C.  E.  F. 

Snow  Pudding: — 1  pint  boiling  milk;  6  tablespoons 
cornstarch;  (good  measure)  wet  in  cold  milk,  and  stir  this 
into  the  boiling  milk;  cook  a  few  minutes;  add  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  remove  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Stir  this  a  few  minutes, 
then  pour  into  a  mold. 

Sauce: — Make  a  common  custard  of  a  scant  pint  of 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


11/ 


milk;  £  cup  sugar;  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  do  not  let  the 
eggs  curdle;  flavor  to  taste;  pudding  to  be  eaten  cold. 

Anonymous. 

Suet  Pudding: — 1  cup  suet;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  milk;  1 
cup  chopped  raisins;  3  cups  flour,  with  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg;  dip  the  pudding  cloth  into 
water  and  flour  inside;  turn  in  the  pudding  and  boil  3 hours, 
turning  quite  often. 

Sauce: — 1  cup  sugar;  \  cup  butter,  beat  to  a  cream;  put 
into  a  quart  dish  and  fill  almost  full  of  boiling  water;  thicken 
about  like  cream;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Subscriber. 

Suet  Pudding: — 1  cupmolasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup 
suet  chopped  fine;  I  cup  raisins;  y  cup  currants;  2,\  cups 
flour;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  salt  and  spice  to  taste.  Steam  2 
hours. 

Watertown,  S.  D.  L.  A.  W. 

Suet  Pudding: — 1  cup  suet;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cupmolas- 
ses; 1  cup  raisins;  1  teaspoon  soda;  3^  cups  flour.  Steam 
2  hours. 

Sauce: — 1  cup  sugar;  \  butter;  1  egg;  season  with  lem- 
on; cook  this  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 

Monango,  N.  D  Mrs.  O.  J.  S. 

Suet  Pudding: — 1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup 
finely  chopped  suet,  or  y2  cup  butter;  y2  cup  currants,  or  rai- 
sins; 1  teaspoon  soda;  little  salt;  spice;  flour  for  a  stiff  bat- 
ter.   Boil  in  a  tin  mold  3  hours.    Eat  with  spice  sauce. 

Cummings,  N.  D.  Mrs'.  L.  H.  W. 

Cup  Pudding: — cup  sugar;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  butter 
size  of  an  egg;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  this  will  make  6 
cups.  Oil  the  cups  with  butter;  put  I  spoonful  of  batter  in 
each  cup;  then  fruit  of  any  kind  and  cover  with  batter;  steam 
y^  hour.    To  be  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream.    Very  nice. 

Cass  Co.,  N.  D.  Mrs.  Cooley. 

Cup  Pudding: — 3  eggs;  %  cup  sugar;  y  cup  butter;  % 
cup  sweet  milk;  1  large  cup  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; 1  teaspoon  berries  in  the  bottom  of  cups.  Fill  y  full 
of  batter  and  steam  20  minutes.    Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

Albany  Pudding: — Grease  a  bowl  thick  with  butter;  put 
seeded  raisins  around  it;  then  line  with  bread.  Make  a  cus- 
tard; pour  in;  bake;  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Kittie  Williams. 


n8 


THF   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Spice  Pudding: — i  heaping  cup  bread  crumbs;  2  cups 
flour;  1  cup  suet  chopped  fine  or  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  raisins; 

1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  2  eggs;i  tablespoon  scant 
level  soda;  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Steam  about  3  hours. 

Sauce: — 1  large  spoon  flour;  2  spoons  butter;  4  spoons 
sugar.  Mix,  add  boiling  water  until  of  the  right  consisten- 
cy; stirring  rapidly.    Flavor  with  lemon  extract  and  nutmeg. 

Ella  R.  S. 

Fruit  Pudding: — 1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses;  1  cup 
chopped  suet;  or  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  sour  milk;  2-J  cups 
flour;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup  raisins;  1  cup  currants;  spices 
of  all  kinds  to  suit  taste.  Steam  4  hours.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Dickey,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Larson. 

Sauce  for  Steamed  Pudding — 1  cup  water;  y2  cup  su- 
gar; 4  tablespoons  wine  or  brandy;  1  tablespoon  flour;  stir 
well  and  cook.    Serve  hot  with  pudding.    Mrs.  A.  E.  Adrin. 

Boiled  Rhubarb  Pudding: — Line  a  buttered  basin  with 
a  good  suet  crust;  cut  rhubarb  into  small  pieces  and  fill  the 
basin  with  alternate  layers  of  rhubarb  and  moist  sugar;  cov- 
er with  crust;  pinch  the  edges  together  and  tie  over  it  a 
floured  cloth;  put  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  from 

2  to  2y2  hours.  Mrs.  Polka. 

Pudding  Sauce: — Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff;  add  y2 
cup  sugar;  beat  till  smooth;  whip  ^cup  sweet  cream  and  stir 
all  together. 

Quick  Cracker  Pudding: — 3  soda  crackers  rolled  fine; 
1  pint  milk;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  y2  cup  sugar;  pinch  salt;  bake 
1  hour.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs;  2  tablespoons  sugar;  flavor 
with  lemon;  pour  over  the  pudding  and  brown. 

Northfield.  Minn.  Mrs.  J.  S.  W. 

Carrot  Pudding: — 1  cup  grated  carrot;  1  cup  grated  po- 
tatoes; 2  cups  raisins;  1  cup  sugar;  %  cup  butter;  1  egg;  y2 
cup  sour  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  salt;  stiffen  with 
flour.  Steam  2y2  hours  or  boil  in  cloth.  Serve  with  hot 
sauce.  Adelaide. 

Kiss  Pudding,  (that  will  do  very  nicely  for  des- 
sert:— Place  over  the  fire  1  quart  of  milk;  when  boiling  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  light  with  4  tablespoons  sugar, 
and  4  tablespoons  cornstarch;  let  boil  3  minutes  being  care- 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


119 


ful  not  to  burn;  turn  this  into  a  dish,  (leavingroom  for  frost- 
ing); pour  over  this  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  4  scant  tablespoons  of  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla; 
place  in  the  oven  and  let  brown  a  light  brown;  set  away  and 
serve  real  cold. 

Inkster,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  F.  W. 

Black  Pudding: — 1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sugar,  dark  brown;  2  cups  flour;  1  cup  sour  milk;  4  eggs;  1 
nutmeg;  cinnamon;  cloves;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup  raisins. 
Steam  3  hours. 

Le  Sueur  Co.,  Minn.  Violet. 

Green  Corn  Pudding: — 1  quart  milk;  5  eggs;  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter;  1  tablespoon  white  sugar;  1  dozen 
large  ears  sweet  corn.  Grate  the  corn  from  cob;  beat  the 
whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately;  put  corn  and  yolks 
together;  stir  hard  and  add  butter;  then  themilk,  gradually; 
beating  all  the  time;  next  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  lastly  the 
whites;  bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the  dish  for  1  hour;  then 
remove  the  cover  and  brown  finely.  Warm  up  what  is  left 
from  dinner  for  breakfast  by  moistening  with  a  little  warm 
milk,  stirring  in  saucepan  till  smoking  hot. 

Cass  Co.,  N.  D.  Mrs.  C.  S.  Cooley. 

Delicious  Pudding:— Into  1  quart  of  sweet  milk;  put  1 
pint  bread  crumbs,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  The  well  beaten 
yolks  of  5  eggs;  sweeten  as  for  custard.  Mix  the  whole  well 
together.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add 
to  it  a  teacup  of  powdered  sugar;  pour  this  overthe  hot  pud- 
ding after  it  is  cooked,  then  return  it  to  the  oven  and  bake 
a  delicate  brown.  Some  prefer  a  layer  of  peaches  or  other 
fruit  over  the  pudding  before  the  frosting  is  added.  No 
sauce  is  needed.  M.  A.  Oberman. 

Minute  Pudding: — 1  quart  sweet  milk  (more  or  less,  as 
required);  when  boiling  add  a  little  salt,  and  stir  in  flour,  a 
little  at  a  time,  till  it  is  a  thick  batter;  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar;  flavored  with  grated  nutmeg.  If  a  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder  is  stirred  in  the  flour  and  the  saucepan  is  taken 
from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  is  done  it  will  be  light  and  nice. 

Nellie  Rees. 

A  Pudding  for  You: — Soak  cup  of  tapioca  in  a  pint 
of  water  2  hours;  then  boil  it  until  clear  with  a  glassful  of 
currant  jelly  and  y2  cup  sugar;  as  you  take  from  the  fire  stir 
into  the  pudding  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs;  pour  in 


120 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


to  a  mold  and  set  away  to  harden.  When  the  pudding  is 
ready  to  serve,  pour  about  it  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  and  a  pint  of  milk;  put  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler 
and  when  boiling  mix  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  light 
with  2  tablespoons  sugar;  stir  and  boil  2 minutes;  flavor  with 
vanilla;  cool  before  using.  The  light  pink  of  the  pudding 
and  the  golden  custard  make  a  verv  attractive  dessert. 

CANNED  FRUIT,  PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

Rhubarb  Jelly: — Wash  and  cutup  without  peeling;  boil 
till  tender  in  a  little  water,  and  strain  the  juice  through  a 
course  cloth;  put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice, 
dissolve  it  and  strain  all  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.  Put  it  warm  in  glasses,  and  cover  with  white  paper 
dipped  into  the  white  of  an  egg.       Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Ribbon  Jelly: — Pour  different  colored  jellies  one  over 
the  other  in  layers;  yellow  is  made  from  lemon  and  oranges; 
red  from  currants;  dark  colors  from  dark  berries;  greenfrom 
spinach  juice  added  to  any  light  jelly;  crimson,  use  a  little 
cochineal  powder.  Each  layer  must  be  hard  before  the  next 
is  poured  in.  After  all  is  hard  turn  out  in  glass  stand  and 
serve  in  slices  cut  on  table. 

Orange  Fool: — Juice  of  4  oranges;  3  well  beaten  eggs; 
1  pint  cream;  a  little  cinnamon;  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste; 
set  on  fire  to  thicken  till  it  is  like  melted  butter;  do  not  al- 
low to  boil;  pour  in  glass  dish  and  serve  when  cold. 

R.  Voorhees. 

Lemon  Jelly: — y2  box  Cox's  gelatine  soaked  in  1  cup 
cold  water  1  hour;  add  1  pint  boiling  water;  \y2  cups  granu- 
lated sugar;  3  lemons;  (being  careful  to  grate  off  only  the 
yellow  rind  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  Do  not  leave  the 
white  rind  or  seeds  in  as  they  make  the  jelly  bitter).  Put  all 
together  and  boil  5  minutes,  then  strain  through  thin  mus- 
lin or  cheese  cloth  and  set  away  to  cool.  Keep  it  in  a  cool 
place  from  12  to  24  hours  before  using  in  order  that  it  may 
be  firm.  Ella  K.  S. 

Raspberry  Jam: — 1  quart  ripe  raspberries;  1  pound  loaf 
sugar;  put  sugar  and  berries  into  a  pan  and  let  them  stand  2  or 
3  hours.  Then  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  skimming  careful- 
ly; when  no  more  scum  rises,  mash  and  boil  to  smooth  mar- 
malade.   When  cold  put  into  glass  tumblers.    Mrs.  S.  A.  L. 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


121 


Ripe  Tomato  Preserves: — 7  pounds  round  ripe  toma- 
toes, peeled"  7  pounds  sugar;  juice  of  3  lemons;  let  stand  to- 
gether over  night;  drain  off  syrup  and  boil  it;  skim  well; 
put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil  gently  20  minutes;  take  out 
fruit  with  skimmer;  spread  on  dishes;  boil  syrup  down  till  it 
thickens,  adding  just  before  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  juice  of 
the  lemons;  put  fruit  into  jar  and  fill  up  with  hot  syrup; 
when  cold  seal  up.    Very  nice. 

Lisbon,  N.  D.  Mrs.  M.  F.  C. 

Preserved  Wild  Tomatoes: — Use  1  pound  of  sugar  to 
2  pounds  of  fruit;  place  over  the  stove  with  just  enough  wa- 
ter to  dissolve  sugar;  let  boil  till  they  look  transparent;  then 
skim  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the  syrup  until  quite  thick  and 
pour  it  over  the  fruit;  season  with  lemon. 

Ludden,  N.  D.  Mattie  Butler. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves: — To  1  pound  of  fruit  use 
%  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar;  also  I  lemon  to  2  pounds 
of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  in  a  kettle  with  just  water  enough  to 
melt  it;  add  the  tomatoes  and  lemon  and  cook  gently  until 
the  tomato  is  tender  and  transparent.  Cut  the  tomatoes 
around  in  halves,  then  quarter  the  halves.  This  will  keep 
without  sealing. 

Ellendale,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  D.  C. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves: — 8  pounds  small  green  to- 
matoes; pierce  each  with  a  fork;  7  pounds  sugar;  4  lemons, 
the  juice  only;  1  ounce  ginger  and  mace  mixed.  Heat  all 
together  slowly  and  boil  till  the  fruit  is  clear.  Take  it  from 
the  kettle  in  perforated  skimmer  and  spread  on  dishes  to 
cool;  boil  the  syrup  thick.  Put  the  fruit  into  jars  and  cover 
with  hot  syrup.    Very  good.        Mrs.  C.  B.  Griswold. 

Peach  Preserves: — 1  basket  peaches;  7  pounds  white 
sugar:  I  quart  good  vinegar;  make  a  little  bag  of  mosquito 
bar,  put  in  it  I  tablespoon  cloves  (not  ground);  2  heaping 
tablespoons  cinnamon,  broken  up;  put  the  sugar  and  vine- 
gar in  a  kettle  and  let  them  boil;  in  another  kettle  have 
some  boiling  water;  throw  into  it  8  or  10  peaches  and  let 
them  remain  long  enough  to  start  the  skin  so  that  by  throw- 
ing them  into  cold  water  you  can  slip  it  off.  When  you 
have  as  many  peaches  as  your  kettle  will  hold  put  them  in 
the  boiling  syrup  and  cook  them  until  you  can  stick  a  fork 
into  them  easily,  but  don't  keep  them  boiling  until  they  soft- 
en and  fall  in  pieces.    When  you  think  them  tender  put 


122 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


them  in  the  jar.    Then  boil  down  the  syrup  so  it  will  almost 
cover  them.    Put  the  bag  in  the  jar  and  cover  with  a  cloth. 
Wykoff,  Minn.  Mrs.  R.  E.  R. 

Citron  Preserves: — Cut  the  citron  in  thin  slices;  boil 
in  water  with  a  small  piece  of  alum  until  clear  and  tender; 
then  rinse  in  cold  water;  make  a  syrup  of  %  pound  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  citron;  boil  a  piece  of  ginger  root  in  the  syrup; 
then  pour  the  citron  in  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  put  in  I 
lemon  to  5  pounds  of  fruit. 

Elkwood,  N.  D.  Mrs.  Wm.  Ridley. 

Citron  Preserves: — 8  pounds  citron;  6  pounds  white 
sugar;  1  pound  raisins;  2  lemons  cut  in  slices.  Cook  the  cit- 
ron till  you  can  pierce  it  with  a  straw;  then  cook  the  juice 
down  pretty  well;  the  raisins  need  not  be  cooked  very  much. 

Monango,  N.  D.  Mrs.  O.  J.  S. 

To  Keep  Jelly  from  Moulding: — To  prevent  jelly  from 
moulding,  simply  dampen  the  paper,  with  which  the  glass  or 
jar  is  covered,  with  alcohol.  Do  this  just  before  putting  it 
away,  and  your  jelly  will  never  mould.  Mrs.  W.  L. 

Canned  Baked  Apple  Sauce: — Fill  a  large  bean  pot  with 
sour  apples  pared,  quartered  and  cored.  Sprinkle  over  them 
about  Y  cup  sugar  for  a  quart  of  apples.  Add  1  cup  water,  • 
cover  closely  and  bake  several  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  red,  take  out  the  apple  and  put  it  in  hot  glass  jars;  drain 
off  the  syrup  and  letit  boil  up  once.  Then  fill  the  jars  with  syr- 
up and  seal.  Hard  winter  pears  and  quinces  are  good  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way.  Matron. 

Lemon  Butter: — 1  cup  white  sugar;  3  eggs;  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg;  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  large  lemon. 
After  beating  it  well  put  into  a  bright  tin  basin  and  set  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  it  constantly  until  it  is  thick. 
This  is  very  nice  for  filling  tarts,  or  a  layer  cake,  and  for 
small  cakes  if  split  and  put  together  with  this  jelly.    M.  A.  O. 

Spiced  Currants: — 6  bowls  of  ripe  currants;  3  bowls 
sugar;  1  pint  vinegar;  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  allspice;  1  ta- 
blespoon cloves.    Boil  about  1  hour. 

Rochester,  Minn.  Margaret  Waldron. 

Spiced  Currants: — 5  pounds  currants;  4  pounds  brown 
sugar;  2  tablespoons  cinnamon;  1  pint  vinegar;  boil  2  hours. 
Northfield,  Minn.  Mrs.  H.  E.H.  - 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


123 


Spiced  Gooseberries: — Take  6  quarts  of  gooseberries 
(ripe  or  green);  9  pounds  sugar;  1  pint  vinegar;  if  the  vine- 
gar is  very  strong  dilute  with  water;  1  tablespoon  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  After  looking  over  the  ber- 
ries and  carefully  picking  off  the  blow;  put  them  in  your 
porcelain  kettle  with  a  little  water  and  part  of  the  sugar;  just 
as  little  water  as  you  think  will  answer;  boil  for  \  y2  hours; 
when  almost  done,  add  the  spice  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar. 
Put  into  cans,  while  hot,  and  seal.  It  is  delicious  with  meat. 

Strawberry  Jam: — Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  4  pounds 
of  strawberries,  1  pint  red  currant  juice  and  2  pounds  sugar; 
boil  the  berries  and  currant  juice  first;  add  the  sugar  and 
boil  up  again  skimming  well;  put  in  jars;  cover  with  brand- 
ied  paper  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Park  River,  N.  D.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Ronnold. 

Canned  Blackberries: — To  every  pound  of  blackber- 
ries allow  %  pound  sugar;  put  the  berries  in  aporcelain  lined 
kettle;  sprinkle  over  the  sugar;  stand  aside  1  or  2  hours; 
then  put  over  a  moderate  fire,  bring  to  a  boiling  point;  skim 
and  can  immediately. 

Canned  Strawberries: — For  1  pound  strawberries  y2 
pound  sugar.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  hot  water  into  which 
dip  the  can  long  enough  to  heat  it,  then  fill  in  the  fruit  while 
hot,  corking  immediately,  dipping  the  end  of  the  cork  into 
the  Cement  for  canning  fruit:  Resin  1  pound;  lard,  tal- 
low and  beeswax  of  each  1  ounce;  melt  and  stir  together; 
have  it  hot  ready  to  dip  into  while  canning. 

Spearfish,  S.  D.  Miss  Lizzie  Rebbe. 

Pink  Cream:— 3  gills  raspberry  syrup,  mix  with  a  quart 
of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream;  whisk  until  very 
light  and  serve  in  whip  glasses.       Mrs.  E.  A.  Carter. 

Ice  Cream: — 1  pint  or  2  cups  thick  sweet  cream;  the 
same  quantity  of  sweet  milk;  1  cup  sugar;  1  egg;  2  table- 
spoons cornstarch,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  the  milk  on  stove 
to  boil  in  a  clean  skillet  or  tin  pail;  (a  custard  kettle  is  the 
best  to  cook  it  in).  Dissolve  cornstarch  in  cold  milk  and 
stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  stir  well  a  few  minutes;  then 
add  sugar  and  salt;  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  egg;  stir  constantly  to  prevent  egg  from  cooking;  set 
away  to  get  cold;  then  add  the  cream  and  flavoring;  and  the 
mixture  is  ready  for  freezing.  Minnie  A  Oberman. 


124 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Currant  Jelly: — Select  ripe  fruit;  boil  until  soft;  strain 
through  a  cloth;  boil  7  minutes;  add  1  pound  sugar  for  every 
pint  of  juice.    Boil  3  minutes;  pour  into  glasses.  Adelaide. 

Baked  Rhubarb: — Cut  into  inch  pieces;  weigh  almost 
as  much  moist  sugar  as  rhubarb,  and  bake  in  an  earthen  dish; 
put  it  into  the  dish  in  layers;  add  a  little  water;  cover  close- 
ly with  a  plate  and  bake  until  very  tender. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Polka. 

Baked  Rhubarb  : — Peel  and  cut  into  2  inch  lengths  3: 
bunches  rhubarb.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  put  in  baking 
dish  with  I  large  cup  sugar  sprinkled  over.  Bake  %  of  an 
hour.    Very  nice  served  hot  as  vegetables,  or  cold  as  a  sauce. 

Sherbrooke,  N.  D.  Kittie  Williams. 

Apple  Rhubarb  Jelly: — Rhubarb  makes  good  jelly 
used  with  apples..  Cut  the  apples  in  any  way,  leaving  peel 
and  core  if  you  like,  and  boil  till  soft;  put  them  into  a  bag 
carefully  and  do  not  squeeze  them;  hang  the  bag  over  a  jar 
for  some  hours  until  most  of  the  juice  is  out.  Boil  the  rhu- 
barb in  the  same  way  until  you  have  the  juice,  without 
squeezing,  which  add  to  the  apple  juice;  boil  together  then 
for  25  minutes  and  the  jelly  will  be  pretty  as  well  as  very 
nice.  Proportion  as  you  please,  using  perhaps  half  or  less 
rhubarb.  Too  much  boiling  ruins  jelly.  We  have  never 
tried  rhubarb  alone  for  jelly,  but  suppose  it  could  be  made 
in  the  same  way  as  apple  jelly.  Apple  jelly  is  much  better 
if  seasoned  with  lemon  or  any  extract  before  it  becomes 
firm.  Cecile  I.  Boughton. 

Rhubarb  Vinegar: — For  five  gallons  take  about  20  or- 
dinary stalks  of  rhubarb;  wash  and  crush  it  with  a  potato 
masher  in  the  bottom  of  a  strong  cask;  then  add  5  gallons 
cold  water;  cover  and  stand  aside  twenty-four  hours.  Strain 
off  and  add  8  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  cupful  of  good  yeast 
or  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water. 
Stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  stand  in  a  warm  place 
over  night.  In  the  morning  put  in  a  10  gallon  cask;  place 
where  the  temperature  will  not  fall  below  6o°.  In  a  month 
strain  off  the  grounds;  return  to  the  cask  again  and  let  stand 
until  it  becomes  vinegar;  perhaps  in  two  or  three  weeks. 

Spearfish,  S.  D.  Miss  Lizzie  Rebbe. 

Rhubarb  Jelly: — Wash  and  cut  the  stalks  into  small 
pieces;  cook  to  a  pulp  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burn- 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


I25 


ing;  pour  into  a  woolen  jelly  bag,  pointed  at  the  lower  end, 
and  hang  up  to  drip.  Measure  the  sugar  and  juice  in  the 
same  cups  you  put  the  jelly  in;  1  cup  juice  and  1  cup  sugar 
will  usually  make  2  of  jelly.  Put  the  sugar  where  it  will  get 
hot,  but  not  burn,  while  the  juice  boils  20  minutes;  then  add 
the  sugar  and  boil;  till  when  poured  from  a  spoon  it  will 
break  away  in  a  solid  sheet  immediately.  Pieplant,  like  fruits, 
is  not  always  in  the  same  condition,  being  more  watery  in 
wet  weather,  so  if  you  depend  entirely  on  timing  it,  it  will 
not  always  be  right.  It  is  better  to  cook  a  small  portion  at 
a  time,  not  over  3  cups  in  a  dish,  but  you  can  use  several 
small  dishes  at  the  same  time,  refilling  without  washing. 

Lemon  Jelly: — 2  cups  water;  1  cup  white  sugar;  yolks 
of  3  eggs;  1  grated  lemon;  butter  y2  size  of  an  egg;  2  large 
tablespoons  cornstarch;  boil  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

Merricourt,  N.  D,  Mrs.  R.  W. 

Lemon  Jelly: — 1  lemon,  juice  and  rind;  1  cup  sugar;  1 
egg;  beat,  and  set  on  stove  to  thicken. 

Buffalo,  Minn.  S.  E.  L. 

Siberian  Crab  Apple  Jelly: — Take  1  peck  of  nice  ripe 
crab  apples  and  wash  clean;  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  cover 
with  water,  let  boil  until  tender;  then  put  into  a  jelly  bag 
and  hang  up  to  drain  over  night;  do  not  squeeze  the  bag  at 
all;  next  morning  take  %  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to 
I  pint  of  juice,  until  the  juice  is  all  used;  then  let  boil  until 
you  see  that  it  jells;  to  ascertain  this  take  a  spoon  and  dip  a 
little  into  a  saucer;  if  it  jells  around  the  edges  it  is  done;  put 
it  in  glasses  or  jelly  moulds;  this  will  make  nearly  1  gallon 
of  jelly.  Matron. 

Egyptian  Jelly: — Soak  2  tablespoons  gelatine  in  a  lit- 
tle water  for  an  hour;  add  y2  cup  sugar;  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff;  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Bring  this  to  a  boil;  let 
settle;  strain;  mold  Whip  \y2  cups  cream  and  flavor  y2 
with  almond  and  the  other  with  lemon.  Color  both  if  you 
like.  Dissolve  nearly  2  tablespoons  of  isinglass  in  hot  water, 
add  y2  of  it  to  each  kind  of  cream  with  a  little  sugar;  beat 
well;  mold  each  cream,  then  arrange  in  layers  the  jelly;  cut- 
ting each  to  suit  your  fancy.         Cecile  I.  Boughton. 

Choke  Cherrey  Jelly: — Pick  over  the  cherries  and  wash 
them;  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  to  every  4  quarts 
of  cherries  allow  3  pints  of  water;  boil  slowly  until  soft;  then 


126 


THF   COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


turn  into  a  jelly  bag  to  drip,  being  careful  not  to  squeeze  it, 
or  the  jelly  will  not  be  clear.  Boil  the  juice  20  minutes; 
skim  and  measure  and  to  every  cup  of  juice  add  1  cup  of  su- 
gar. Boil  until  it  jellies,  which  will  sometimes  take  30  min- 
utes. Pour  into  tumblers  and  after  3  or  4  days  cover  with 
paper. 

Ellendale,  N.  D.  Mrs.  W.  D.  C. 

Banana  Ice  Cream: — 3  beaten  eggs;  2  cups  sugar;  1 
quart  cream;  1  pint  milk;  freeze  partly,  then  add  V2  dozen 
sliced  bananas,  and  finish  freezing. 

Mazeppa,  Minn.  Ethel  A.  Segar. 

SALT  CODFISH  RECIPES  (TESTED). 

Codfish  Toast: — Shred  the  boneless  fish  in  fine  pieces; 
freshen  it  by  soaking  in  cold  water;  drain,  and  mix  with  it 
a  tablespoon  of  flour,  half  a  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  two- 
thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  and  one  nicely  beaten  egg;  season 
with  pepper  and  let  it  scald  slowly,  stirring  it  carefully. 
Make  a  nice  moist  toast  of  stale  bread,  and  lay  it  on  the  plat- 
ter with  the  fish  over  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table,  and  is 
a  fine  dish. 

Buttered  Cod  Fish: — Shred  fine  and  freshen  sufficient- 
ly in  cold  water;  drain  well  and  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  flour  to 
absorb  the  remaining  moisture.  Have  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  melted  and  hot;  lay  the  fish  in  the  butter,  stir- 
ring it  well  a  few  minutes,  then  put  it  upon  a  platter,  pepper 
and  serve.  Some  prefer  this  to  any  other  mode  of  prepara- 
tion. 

Baked  Cod  Fish: — Thoroughly  freshen  in  cold  water 
and  pick  fine;  take  1  quart  of  the  picked  fish;  1  pint  of 
bread  crumbs;  pint  of  cream;  4  ounces  of  butter;  1  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Put  into  a  baking  dish  in  layers,  fish,  pep- 
per and  then  crumbs;  over  the  top  layer,  which  should  be 
crumbs,  spread  the  softened  butter;  pour  the  cream  over  the 
whole  and  bake  in  a  nice  hot  oven  half  an  hour.  Milk  may 
be  used  instead  of  cream. 

Cod  Fish  Fritters  no  i  : — Take  salt  cod  fish  and  soak 
over  night;  in  the  morning  throw  the  water  off,  put  on  fresh 
and  set  it  on  the  stove  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil,  as  that  will  harden  it;  pick  it  very  fine  and  season 
with  pepper  and  mace,  and  perhaps  a  little  salt;  make  a 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


12/ 


batter  of  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  3  eggs;  stir  in  the  fish 
and  fry  in  hot  grease.  Any  kind  of  cold  fish  makes  nice 
fritters. 

Cod  Fish  Fritters  no  2: — Beat  4  eggs  into  a  cup  of 
milk;  add  a  cup  of  salt  cod  fish;  cook  the  same  as  for  grid- 
dle cakes. 

Cod  Fish  Balls:— Boil  and  mash  white  potatoes  and 
keep  warm;  freshen  the  fish  a  little  and  pick  up  fine;  add 
to  the  fish  double  the  amount  of  potatoes;  put  in  a  little 
pork  drippings  and  milk  enough  to  soften;  flour  the  hands 
and  roll  into  balls,  and  fry  in  pork  grease  until  quite  brown. 

Scrambled  Cod  Fish: — Beat  2  eggs  with  1  cup  of  milk; 
stir  in  y2  cup  freshened  fish;  put  into  a  buttered  pan,  and 
stir  briskly  while  cooking;  cook  to  the  consistency  of 
scrambled  eggs. 

Cod  Fish  Omelet: — Beat  up  3  eggs  on  a  plate;  add  3 
ounces  of  freshened  fish  and  a  tablespoon  of  milk;  stir  all 
together,  and  cook  as  plain  omelet. 

Broiled  Cod  Fish: — Freshen,  and  pull  into  strips;  put 
them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  moderate  fire;  brown  lightly; 
put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  strip  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Polka. 


128 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


HOUSEHOLD  REMEDIES  AND  RECEIPTS, 

To  Exterminate  Bed-bugs,  Moths,  Cockroaches,  Red 
Ants,  etc: — Bed-bugs,  moths,  and  other  insects  may  be  ea- 
sily exterminated  by  the  free  use  of  benzine.  The  pure  ben- 
zine will  not  soil  or  injure  mattrasses  or  the  upholstering  of 
furniture,  and  may  be  freely  applied;  but  care  should  be 
used  not  to  apply  it  to  painted  or  varnished  woods.  Naph- 
tha is  of  the  same  nature  as  benzine,  but  much  more  power- 
ful, and  when  it  can  be  procured  is  to  be  preferred.  Avoid 
the  use  of  either  benzine  or  naptha  near  a  flame,  as  they  are 
exceedingly  volatile.  The  best  method  of  exterminating 
red  ants,  that  are  such  a  pest  to  many  housekeepers,  is  to 
find  the  place  where  they  enter  the  house,  if  possible,  and 
track  them  to  their  nests,  which,  when  found,  deluge  with 
boiling  water,  kerosene  oil,  or  benzine;  doing  this  frequently 
for  a  few  days  will  exterminate  the  entire  colony.  Some 
persons  have  used  the  oil  of  pennyroyal  with  success. 

To  Remove  Fresh  Ink  Stains  from  Carpets,  etc:— 
When  ink  has  been  spilled  upon  a  carpet,  apply  as  quickly 
as  possible,  and  before  it  has  time  to  become  absorbed  into 
the  meshes,  common  table  salt  in  sufficient  large  quantities 
to  absorb  the  ink.  Then  sweep  it  up  and  apply  a  new  sup- 
ply of  salt,  continuing  to  do  so  until  the  salt  applied  is  not 
soiled  by  the  ink.  To  remove  old  or  fresh  ink  stains  from 
white  material  of  any  kind,  apply  oxalic  acid,  and  rinse  in 
warm  water;  if  applied  to  colored  goods  it  will  remove  not 
only  the  ink  stains  but  other  colors  also.  To  remove  fruit 
or  tea  stains  from  napkins  or  table  linen,  place  the  stained 
parts  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  turn  boiling  water  directly  on 
them,  letting  them  remain  in  the  water  until  cold.  Be  sure 
the  water  is  boiling,  as  simply  hot  water  will  set  the  stain  in, 
instead  of  removing  it. 

To  Prevent  Lamp  Chimneys  from  Cracking: — The  fol- 
lowing treatment  will  not  only  render  lamp-chimneys,,,  tum- 
blers, and  like  articles  more  durable,  but  maybe  applied  with 
advantage  to  crockery,  stoneware,  porcelain,  etc.:  The 
chimneys,  tumblers,  etc.,  are  put  into  a  pot  filled  with  cold 
water,  to  which  some  common  table  salt  has  been  added. 
The  water  is  well  boiled  over  a  fire,  and  then  allowed  to  cool 
slowly.  When  the  articles  are  taken  out  and  washed,  they 
will  be  found  to  resist  afterward  any  sudden  changes  of  tem- 
perature.   The  process  is  simply  one  of  annealing,  and  the 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


129 


slower  the  cooling  part  of  it  is  conducted  the  more  effective 
will  be  the  work. 

How  to  Clean  Lamp  Burners;— When  lamp  burners  are 
gummed,  and  will  not  turn  the  wick  up  readily,  boil  them  for 
two  or  three  hours  in  strong  soap  suds.  They  will  then  turn 
the  wick  as  readily  as  when  new. 

To  Renovate  Black  Silk: — Black  silk  is  restored  to 
its  deep  black  color  by  sponging  it  wTith  a  strong  decoction 
of  cheap  black  tea.  Turn  the  silk  wrong  side  up,  place 
a  thin  cloth  over  it,  and  smooth  out  with  a  moderately  hot 
iron. 

To  Wash  Black  Lace: — Put  the  lace  in  alcohol,  using 
no  water.  Squeeze  it  out,  but  do  not  rub  it  at  all.  Change 
the  alcohol  until  it  looks  clear.  Make  the  last  quantity  of 
alcohol  pretty  blue  from  common  washing  bluing  or  indigo. 
Squeeze  out  the  lace,  fold  several  thicknesses  of  cloth  on  a 
table,  and  lay  out  the  lace  smoothly  to  dry,  or  pin  it  if  nec- 
essary to  keep  it  smooth.  Do  not  iron  it,  but  press  it  be- 
tween heavy  books  or  other  weights  when  nearly  dry. 

Sand  Bag  for  the  Sick  Room: — One  of  the  most  con- 
venient articles  to  be  used  in  a  sick  room  is  a  sandbag.  Get 
some  clean,  fine  sand,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  kettle  on 
the  stove,  make  a  bag  about  eight  inches  square  of  flannel, 
fill  with  the  dry  sand,  sew  the  opening  carefully  together, 
and  cover  the  bag  with  cotton  or  linen  cloth.  This  will  pre- 
vent the  sand  from  sifting  out,  and  will  also  enable  you  to 
heat  the  bag  quickly  by  placing  it  in  the  oven,  or  even  on 
top  of  the  stove.  After  once  using  this,  you  will  never  again 
attempt  to  warm  the  feet  and  hands  of  a  sick  person  with  a 
bottle  of  hot  water  or  a  brick.  The  sand  holds  the  heat  a 
long  time,  and  the  bag  can  be  tucked  up  to  the  back  without 
hurting  the  invalid.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  two  or  three 
of  the  bags,  and  keep  them  ready  for  use. 

Antidotes  for  Poisoning: — If  poison  has  been  swal- 
lowed, try  to  produce  vomiting  immediately.  This  can  be 
done  at  once  by  giving  the  patient  a  tumbler  of  lukewarm 
water  containing  a  tablespoon  of  ground  mustard.  Common 
salt  will  sometimes  answer  the  place  of  mustard,  if  that  is 
not  at  hand;  but  the  mustard  is  to  be  preferred.  If  the  first 
is  not  effectual  (although  it  generally  is),  take  a  second  dose. 
When  vomiting  is  difficult  to*  accomplish,  tickle  the  back  of 
the  throat  with  the  finger,  or  with  a  feather,  and  repeat  the 


130 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


use  of  hoi:  water.  In  all  cases  of  poisoning,  prompt  action  is 
very  essential.  Never  wait  to  send  for  a  physician  before 
relieving  the  patient.  All  poisons  should  be  properly  la- 
beled and  kept  under  lock  and  key,  apart  from  all  other 
medicines;  if  this  precaution  were  always  taken,  fewer  deaths 
by  accidental  poisoning  would  occur.  Matches  should  be 
kept  out  of  the  reach  of  young  children,  as  the  phosphorus 
contained  in  them  is  very  poisonous. 

Arsenic: — If  a  person  has  been  poisoned  with  arsenic, 
administer  the  mustard  water  until  Yomiting  is  produced; 
after  freely  vomiting,  give  the  patient  dialyzed  iron — a  ta- 
blespoonful  every  five  minutes  until  six  doses  have  been  tak- 
en—or a  teaspoonful  of  sulphur. 

Oxalic  Acid: — Oxalic  acid  resembles  epsom  salts,  and 
is  liable  to  be  taken  in  place  of  the  latter  by  mistake.  The 
two  can  be  easily  distinguished  from  each  other  by  touching 
a  little  to  the  tongue.  Epsom  salt  has  a  very  bitter  taste, 
while  oxalic  acid  is  very  sour.  Give  a  full  tablespoonful  of 
either  magnesia,  pulverized  chalk,  carbonate  of  soda,  or  sal- 
eratus,  dissolved  in  water.  Use  a  stomach  pump  if  one  is  to 
be  obtained. 

Sugar  of  Lead: — For  an  alkaline  poison,  such  as  sugar 
of  lead  or  acetate  of  lead,  give  the  mustard  emetic  as  above 
recommended,  to  gether  with  vinegar  and  water.  This 
may  sometimes  be  followed  with  benefit  by  a  dose  of  either 
epsom  or  glauber  salts. 

Strychnine: — Give  to  a  person  poisoned  with  strych- 
nine an  emetic  of  mustard  and  warm  water,  to  be  followed 
after  vomiting  freely  by  a  drink  of  vinegar  and  sweet  oil. 
Rich,  sweet  milk  is  also  good  instead  of  the  latter. 

Corrosive  Sublimate: — When  poisoned  with  corrosive 
sublimate,  give  whites  of  eggs,  milk,  or  oil,  as  much  as  the 
patient  can  take;  then  give  the  mustard  water  emetic,  as  pre- 
viously recommended. 

Nitrate  of  Silver: — When  poisoned  with  nitrate  of  sil- 
ver or  lunar  caustic,  give  a  tablespoon  of  common  salt  in  a 
large  tumbler  of  water,  to  be  followed  by  castor  oil. 

Strong  Lye: — When  strong  lye  has  been  swallowed  by 
mistake,  as  it  sometimes  is  by  children,  give  olive  oil  or  vin- 
egar, or  a  teacupful  of  thin,  sweet  cream.  This  will  neutral- 
ize, in  a  great  measure,  the  effect  of  the  lye.  By  following 
it  with  a  mustard  emetic,  the  stomach  will  be  relieved  of  its 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


contents,  although  the  soap  formed  by  the  mingling  of  the 
oil  and  lye,  or  the  acetate  of  potash  by  the  vinegar  and  lye, 
will  not  materially  injure  the  stomach. 

Poisoning  by  Ammonia: — Perhaps  it  is  not  generally 
known  that  water  of  ammonia  or  hartshorn,  if  taken  in  an 
undiluted  state  into  the  stomach,  acts  as  a  violent  poison. 
When  this  accident  happens,  give  vinegar  instantly,  mixed 
with  a  little  water.  This  will  neutralize  the  effect  of  the  am- 
monia, since  vinegar  is  an  acid  and  ammonia  is  an  alkali. 

Poisoning  from  Matches: — Children  sometimes  become 
poisoned  by  eating  off  the  ends  of  matches,  which  are  com- 
posed of  very  poisonous  substances,  the  principal  being  phos- 
phorus. Give  an  emetic  of  mustard  and  lukewarm  water  as 
quickly  as  possible,  and  send  for  a  physician. 

Opium,  Morphine,  Laudanum: — When  a  person  has  been 
poisoned  by  opium,  morphine,  laudanum,  paregoric,  nux  vom- 
ica, aconite,  belladonna,  veratrum  viride,  or  croton  oil,  give 
an  emetic  of  ground  mustard  and  water  immediately,  and 
continue  till  free  vomiting  is  produced.  Then  follow  with  a 
drink  of  vinegar  and  sweet  oil.  If  any  of  the  above  poisons 
produce  drowsiness  or  numbness,  rub  the  body  and  limbs 
and  the  soles  of  the  feet  with  a  stiff  flesh  brush  or  crash  tow- 
el. Keep  him  in  the  open  air,  and  walking  if  possible;  dash 
water  in  his  face,  etc.,  to  prevent  him  from  sleeping.  Strong 
coffee  is  said  to  counteract  the  effect  of  some  of  these  poisons. 

Poisoning  by  Dogwood,  Ivy,  etc: — Bathe  in  salt  and 
warm  water,  and  afterwards  apply  a  strong  tea  or  decoction 
of  witchhazel  bark  (Pond's  Extract).  When  the  feet  and 
ankles  are  badly  poisoned,  as  will  sometimes  be  the  case  with 
farmers  in  working  in  the  hay  field,  we  have  known  great  re- 
lief to  follow  covering  them  entirely  for  a  few  hours  with 
freshly-turned  soil,  the  soil  seeming  to  counteract  the  effect  of 
the  poison  in  a  remarkable  degree. 

Convulsions: — If  a  child  is  taken  with  convulsions,  put 
it  instantly  in  a  hot  bath  (88°  to  I  I0o  Fah.)  to  relax  the  mus- 
cles. Be  very  careful  that  the  water  is  not  too  hot.  Apply 
cold  water  compresses  to  the  head.  In  fits,  loosen  all  clothing, 
rub  the  body  and  limbs,  and  give  the  patient  plenty  of  fresh 
air.  * 

When  Bitten  by  a  Dog: — The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  get 
rid  of  the  poison  before  it  passes  into  the  system.  This  must 
be  done  by  burning  it  out,  or  by  a  friend  sucking  it  out,  and 
immediately  rejecting  the  blood  taken  into  the  mouth. 


132 


THF  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


Sunstroke: — When  a  person  is  attacked  with  sunstroke, 
he  must  be  carried  into  a  cool  place,  and  the  temperature  of 
the  body  reduced.  This  can  best  be  done  by  undressing 
him,  dashing  cold  water  over  him,  and  applying  ice.  Sun- 
stroke may  be  often  prevented  by  abstaining  from  the  ex- 
cessive use  of  cold  water,  wearing  loose,  light-fitting  gar- 
ments, and  paying  particular  attention  not  to  expose  thehead 
to  the  rays  of  the  sun.  If  symptoms  appear,  drop  every  oc- 
cupation and  retire  to  the  shade. 

Oatmeal  or  Indian  Meal  Gruel: — Mix  one  or  two  ta- 
blespoons of  the  meal  smoothly  in  cold  water;  then  stir  it  in 
one  pint  of  boiling  water,  salted  with  a  saltspoon  of  salt; 
boil  slowly  from  one  to  two  hours;  sweeten  afterward,  if  de- 
sired, to  suit  the  taste. 

Barley  Gruel: — Wash  the  barley,  then  put  half  a  tea- 
cup in  a  quart  of  cold  water,  let  it  boil  two  or  three  hours. 
Strain,  sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  flavor  with  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.    (Gruels  require  very  thorough  cooking). 

Thickened  Milk: — Dissolve  two  tablespoons  of  flour  in 
a  teacup  of  cold  water.  Boil  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  can  with- 
in another  vessel  of  water;  add  the  flour  and  water  while  the 
milk  is  boiling,  stir  all  the  while,  and  boil  about  ten  minutes. 
Remove  it  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  the  es- 
sence of  lemon  or  vanilla.    Sweeten  to  the  taste. 

Chicken  Broth: — A  chicken  weighing  two  pounds  will 
make  a  quart  of  broth.  Cut  the  chicken  to  pieces  and  break 
all  the  bones;  pour  on  a  quart  of  cold  water,  let  it  simmer 
from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  meat  is 
separated  from  the  bones;  strain  it  and  put  in  a  tablespoon 
of  barley  which  has  been  cooked  in  a  little  warm  water,  add 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Some  like  half  a  cupof  wine  added;  in  this 
case  return  it  to  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes  long- 
er, taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn. 

Barley  Water  (for  sick  children): — Two  tablespoons 
of  pearl  barley  cleansed,  two  cups  of  boiling  water,  one  pinch 
of  salt,  and  two  teaspoons  ot  white  sugar;  soak  the  barley 
half  an  hour  in  a  teacup  of  warm  water,  stir  it  without  drain- 
ing*into  the  boiling  water.  Let  it  simmer  for  an  hour,  stir- 
ring often.    Strain  it  before  adding  the  sugar. 

Hoarseness: — The  best  remedy  for  hoarseness  with 
which  we  are  familiar,  and  also  to  relieve  a  cough  caused  by 


THE  COUNTRY  KITCHEN. 


133 


an  irritation  in  the  throat,  is  to  take  a  frequent  dose  of  the 
following  simple  remedy:  Add  to  good  sharp  cider  vinegar 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  loaf  sugar  to  make  it,  when  dissolved, 
of  the  consistency  of  thin  syrup;  then  sift  in  enough  cay- 
enne pepper  to  make  it  leave  a  burning  sensation  in  the 
throat  when  used;  take  a  small  swallow  to  moisten  the  throat 
occasionally.    Lemon  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar. 

Wonderful  Liniment: — Two  ounces  of  oil  of  spike,  2 
of  organum,  2  of  hemlock,  2  of  wormwood,  4  of  sweet  oil,  2 
of  spts.  ammonia,  2  gum  camphor,  2  of  spt.  turpentine,  and 
one  quart  of  pure  cider  brandy;  mix  well  together  and  bot- 
tle tight. 

This  liniment  is  excellent  for  sprains,  bruises,  lameness, 
etc.,  etc.,  in  horses.  Omit  the  turpentine  and  you  have  one 
of  the  best  liniments  ever  made  for  human  ails,  such  as  rheu- 
matism, sprains,  etc.,  whenever  an  outward  application  is  re- 
quired. 


ICE  HOUSE  PLAN, 

The  illustrations  and  following  description  is  from  the  Hand  Book  of  Builder's 
Estimates,  published  by  the  Co-operative  Building  Plan  Asso.  Architects,  No.  63 
Broadway,  New  York : 

The  foundation  of  this  combined  ice  house  and  cold  room  shonld  be  started 
sufficiently  deep  to  avoid  the  action  of  the  frost ;  may  be  made  of  either  brick  or  stone 
and  should  be  carried  up  to  the  under  side  of  the  sill.  The  sill  is  4x8-inch  yellow  pine, 
and  should  be  set  in  cement  weathered.  Upon  the  sill  rests  the  3x4-inch  hemlock  stud- 
ding and  4x6-inch  hemlock  corner  posts.  The  lower  floor  joists  of  the  ice  chamber  also 
rest  upon  the  sill  and  should  be  spiked  to  the  studding,  which  is  to  be  set  12  inches  on 
centres.  The  upper  floor  joists  are  to  be  carried  on  a  heavy  girt,  2x6-inches,  laid  on  top 
of  the  furring  strips,  which  form  the  air  passage. 

The  entire  exterior  walls  to  be  sheathed  oiTthe  outside  with  %-inch  hemlock  sheath- 
ing, laid  horizontally,  covered  with  rosin-sized  sheathing  paper,  well  tacked  on  and 
finished  with  clapboards  or  novelty  siding,  with  bands,  casings  and  mouldings.  All  to 
be  of  good  quality  white  pine  free  from  defects.  The  walls  to  be  sheathed  inside  with 
matched  % -inch  hemlock,  laid  diagonally.  The  air  space  around  the  ice  chamber  is 
made  by  nailing  2x2-inch  furring  strips  against  the  inner  sheathing  and  directly  over 
studs, and  then  covering  with  l^-inch  yellow  pine  tongued  and  grooved  boards  laid  closely. 

The  space  between  outer  and  inner  sheathing  to  be  filled  in  with  mineral  wool  or 
some  good  non-conductor.  The  rafters  to  be  ceiled  on  the  under  side,  and  the  space 
between  rafters  left  open  at  the  eaves,  to  admit  a  free  passage  of  air  through  and  out  at 
the  ventilator.. 

The  doors  to  be  constructed  in  the  same  manner  as  the  walls,  to  have  beveled  edges 
and  to  be  hung  on  strong  hinges,  fastened  with  hasps  and  padlocks. 

The  floor  above  the  high  part  of  the  cold  room  to  be  covered  with  any  suitable  and 
durable  material,  and  carried  up  back  of  inner  lining  of  the  ice  chamber,  and  made 
perfectly  water-tight  to  avoid  dripping. 

The  lower  floor  of  ice  chamber  is  made  of  2-inch  planks,  6  inches  wide,  laid  about  a 
half  inch  apart,  so  as  to  allow  the  water  and  cold  air  to  descend  to  the  cold  chamber. 
As  cold  air  always  has  a  downward  tendency,  by  this  means  the  cold  chamber  gets  the 
full  benefit  of  the  ice  used,  and  is  further  assisted  by  the  ventilation  of  the  chamber, 
which  allows  the  upper  and  warmer  air  to  escape.  The  water  running  in  the  gutters 
on  the  cold  room  floor  (so  arranged  as  to  make  water  traverse  the  distance  several  times 
before  leaving  the  building;)  helps  to  reduce  the  temperature 

The  floor  of  entire  cold  chamber  to  be  made  concrete,  covered  with  a  coating  of 
cement,  made  smooth  and  so  arranged  as  to  have  the  water  run  in  the  direction  of  the 
arrows  and  discharge  through  trapped  pipe  to  outside  of  building.  Lay  a  wooden  grating 
where  necessary  to  walk  upon. 


INDEX: 


 O  

PAGE. 

Yeast,          -  g 

Bread,     -                                                   -  1 1 

Rolls  and  Biscuits,    -          -          -          -          -  13 

Rusks,          -                            -          -          -  15 

Muffins  and  Waffles,               -          -          -  -  16 

Gems  and  Buns,                             -          -          -  18 

Toast,       -  ig 

Soups,          -  20 

Meats,      ------  23 

Poultry  and  Game,    -----  34 

Pickles  and  Catsup,       -          -          -          -  -  40 

Salads,       -          -          -                     -          -  49 

Eggs,  Cheese  and  Macaroni,           -          -          -  51 

Vegetables,       -          -          -          -          -  "53 

Sweet  Potatoes,       -          -          -          -          -  55 

Miscellaneous,             -          -          -          -  61 

Washing  Day,       -----  64 

Cakes,       -  -  -  -  -67 

Cookies,  Ginger  Cakes  and  Doughnuts,          -  "93 

Pies,          -                                         -  102 

Puddings,       -           -           -  ill 

Canned  Fruit,  Preserves  and  Jellies,       -          -  120 

Salt  Codfish  Recipes  (tested)       -          -          -  126 

Household'Remedies  and  Receipts,    -          -  128 


fl  Cheap 

Olodel  ^  * 

Poultry  House. 


I HE  only  correct  principles  upon  which  a  chicken  house  should  be  built  jjre 
given  in  a  little  pamphlet  showing  tive  illustrations,  with  full  plans,  spec- 
ifications and  cost;  with  much  other  information  of  value  to  poultry  raisers, 
entitled 


HOW  TO 


BUILD  ft  POULTRY  HOUSE  • 

UPON  THE  gj| 

POULTRY  HERALD  . 

Model  Chicken  House  Flan.-  ^ 

«^  PRICE  25  CENTS,  ^3 

Or  sent  free  by  mail  to  every  subscriber  to  the  Poultry  Herald.  This 
Model  Chicken  House  was  awarded  a  diploma  by  the 

(Ilinnesota  State  Agricultural  Society, 

and  it  is  endorsed  by  all  the  leading  fanciers  of  the  Northwest, 

^-^THE  POULTRY  HERALD 

is  a  twenty-four  \  age  monthly  journal,  devoted  exclusively  to  higher  poultry 
culture.  Only  the  most  competent  writers  are  engaged  to  contribute  to  it.  Price 
50  cents  a  year;  six  months  30  cents.    Every  subscriber  will  receive  the 

"MODEL  CHICKEN  HOUSE  PLANS"  FREE. 

Poultry  Herald  aul  Northwestern  Farmer, one  year  each  and '  Plans" 
by  mail  for  75  cents. 

Send  all  orders  and  money  to 

POULTRY  HERALD, 

ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 

Sample  copy  4c  in  stamps. 


